# DOCID-32283800

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/28/202

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES:

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOS

119-10001-10397

DS

39-141-046

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

FBI TAMPA

TO:

TITLE: LHM

Heleased under the John F. Kennedy

desassination Records Collection Act of

1 992 (44 USC 2107 Note]. Case#:NW

65990 Diate: 11-01-2021

DATE: 10/24/1963

PAGES:

4

SUBJECTS :

KENNEDY, JOHN F.

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

Consulted

CURRENT STATUS:

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 04/26/2018

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS:

v9.1

NW 65990 Docld:32283800 Page 1

---

## Page 2

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

Tampa, Florida

October 24, 1963

VISIT OF PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY

TO TAMPA, FLORIDA, NOVEMBER, 1963

On October 23, 1963 a confidential source

contact

with whom has been insufficient to establish reliability but

ho 1s in contact with Cuban individuals. at lampa, Florida,

telephonically furnished the Tampa, Florida Office of the

Federal Bureau of Investigation the following information:

There is a very strong anti-CASTRO group in Tampa..

allegedly lead by one (FNU)(LEAL, which has intentions of

securing a supply of tomatoes and eggs for a proposed demonstra-

tion at the time U. S. President JOHN F. KENNEDY visits Tampa

in November, 1963.

distributed

The group has no name but is the one that

anti-CASTRO literature on or about October 10, 1963

in downtown Tampa and on Bayshore Boulevard at Tanpa.

is reportedly an architect or engineer but his address and des-

apples cription are unknown.

The above information was supposedly given to the

source

bY JUAN DEL CUETO, an employee of the Corral-Wodiska

Cigar Company, Tampa, Florida.

On October 23, 1963 JUAN DEL/QUETO, 3413 Fair Oaks

Avenue, Tampa, employed by Corral-Wodiska Cigar Company, was

interviewed and denied knowledge concerning any demonstration

in connection with the visit of U. S. President JOHN F. KENNEDY

to Tampa in November, 1963.

On October 22, 1963 a second source, contact with whom

has been insufficient to establish reliability but who is familiar

with activities of anti-CASTRO groups in Tampa, Florida,

the following information:

furnished

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED# 211,326

4/3/86 5p6BJalTAR #309,841

NW 65990 Docld:32283800 Page 2

---

## Page 3

CUBA

VISIT OF PRESIDENT KENNEDY TO TAMPA, NOVEMBER,

1963

Representatives of a number of anti-CASTRO groups in

the Tampa, Florida area have been meeting weikly on Thursday

evenings for the purpose/of uniting their efforts in furthering

the cause against FIDEL AStRO. This group bears no name, has

no leaders as such, and allows a different person to act as

moderator each week.

About twenty five to thirty persons have

been attending and a various residences of those present have

been utilized for the meetings until some type of neutral

meeting place can be acquired.

Those in attendance are striving for complete accord

in their discussions on the part of all attending, and so far

the sensible manner in which the sessions have been held has

nich the se

resulted in no dissension or discord.

Their aims are to sponsor

or carry on some type of activity on

Cuban patriotic dates by

which they can propagandize their dislike for the present Cuban

government and

seek the liberation of Cuba.

The last activity of this nature carried on by this

group was a picket type demonstration conducted on October 10,

1963, which is considered a patriotic date of Free Cuba.

Members of the group congregated in several predetermined,

heavily trafficed intersections of the city at approximately

5:00 p.m., displayed anti-CASTRO placardsand distributed anti-

CASTRO and anti-communist propaganda leaflets.

The above group has been discussing the proposed

visit of President JOHN F. KENNEDY to Tampa in November, 1963

and what could be done by the group in the form of anti-CASTRO

Nothing définite has been proposed, however discussions

have ränged from sending the President a congratulatory telegram

to throwing tomatoes

at him upon his arrival.

Other plans dis-

cussed concerned the possibility of conducting a picket with

suitable placards upon arrival of the President.

Source stated

it is normal to have such extremes as that noted above in regard:

to this

matter because of the extremely opposite views on the

part of the various organizations as concerns the KENNEDY adminis-

tration. He said he is certain all will agree on whatever is

2

NW 65990 Docld:32283800 Page 3

---

## Page 4

VISIT OF PRESIDENT KENNEDY TO TAMPA, NOVEMBER, 1963

decided and that there is no cause for alarm as much of the

discussion,

such as throwing tomatoes, is merely "talk" which

is immediately overruled and termed senseless.

Source surmises

that if the idea of picketing is not decided upon or is not

allowed by local authorities, then the group may consider ac-

quiring newspaper space in the local press and using it for

anti-CASTRO propaganda purposes in conjunction with President

KENNEDY's visit.

The following is a list of names of individuals who

have been attending the

weekly meetings and the organizations

they represent:

FLORIDA

Name

Organization

Dr: (NU) /TRELLES

Colegio de Abogados en Exilio

(College of Attorneys in Exile)

DE. HERIBERTO/ HERNANDEZ

OMAR CASTILLO

ALDO/sASTRA

RAUR LASTRA

Colegio de Medicos en Exilio

*College of Medics in Exile)

Mentistas en Exilio

/(Dentists in Exile)

MArquitectos en Exilio

(Architects In Exile)

"Directorio Revolucionarto

wagisterial (DRM)

feuban Teachers in Exile)

DIONED, COTANDA

ARXOLDO CANTERO

Rescate Democratico Revolucionario

(Democratic Revolutionary Rescue)

Vrente Obrero Revolucionar 10

Democratico Cristiano (FORDC)

(The christian orkers revolutionary

Democratic Front

3

NW 65990 Docld:32283800 Page 4

---

## Page 5

FLORIDA

VISIT OF PRESIDENT KENNEDY TO TAMPA,

NOVEMBER, 1963

ORgANiZATION

RENE /CORRILLA

*Comandos L. aka =*Comandos Libre

freedom Commandos)

BRUNO /BARRETRO

IZAAC/GONZALEZ/BARRERO

DE. (7A0) PEREZ

"MAYITO"

rganizacion Triple A

(Triple A Organization)

Ejercito Libertador

(Freedom Army)

Colegio de Veterinarios en Exilio

(College of Veterinarians in Exile)

Directorio Revolucionario

EstudiantiT. (DRE)

Cuban students in Exile)

ALBERTO /GONZALEZ/BARRERO

Colegio de Contadores en Exilio

(Cuban Accountants in Exile).

Representatives of the

following groups have been

invited but have not attendedas yet:

Alpha 66 - Second National

Front of Escambray. (SNFE) - Movimiento

Revolucionario del Pueblo

(MRP) Peoples Revolutionary Movenent.) Movimiento de Recuperacion

Revolucionario (MRR) RevolutionarY

Recuperation Movement)r Junta

Revolucionaria, (JUREY

"Revolutionary

o. November

Movement; Brigade

2506.

On October 24, 1963 the second source mentioned above

LEAL was a student of architecture in Cuba and although he attends

the meetings, he is not considered

a leader of the group.

Accord-

ing to source LEAL was among the members who favor picketing the

President rather than throwing tomatoes or anything of that nature.

The name JUAN DEL CUETO was not familiar to the source.

This document contains neither recommendations nor con-

clusions of the FBI.

It is the property of the fbl and is loaned

to your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed

outside your agency.

NW 65990 Docld:32283800 Page 5

---

