# DOCID-32977060

## Page 1

wes inte

Date : 06/25/98

Page

: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER

RECORDS SERIES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

:

NSC

145-10001-10162

: 163 AND 164

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : NSC

FROM : TAYLOR AND PARROTT

TO :

Heleased under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act o

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note]. Case#:Nv

66000 Date: 11-03-2021

TITLE : MEMORANDUM

DATE: 05/03/62

PAGES : 2

SUBJECTS : MINUTES OF MEETING OF SPECIAL GROUP (AUGMENTED) ON

OPERATION MONGOOSE

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL. DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS : 1B, 1C

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 02/23/98

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

NO JOINT STAFF OBJECTION

TO DECLASSIFICATION

REQUIRES CONCURRENOE ON

DATE:.0

_MAR

2016

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NW 66000 Docld:32977060 Page 1

---

## Page 2

7 May 1962

MEMORANDUM FOR RECORD

SUBJECT:

Report of Progress to Higher Authority

I reported to higher authority the substance

of Mr. Harvey's briefing of the Special Group (Augmented)

on 3 May 1962, pointing out the very limited progress

which has been made and the uncertainty of the ultimate

effectivness of our program.

I mentioned the Duque

incident as indicative of the morale problem. It was

agreed that we would continue along the present lines

until the terminal date of the present phase in August.

NW 66000 Docld:32977060 Page 2

---

## Page 3

This docurent was previoudly released is

part. The red highlighted portions were deleted

3 May 1962

excise

"Madrid"

only

MEMORANDUM FOR RECORD

SUBJECT:

Minutes of Meeting of Special Group (Augmented) on

Project Mongoose, 3 May 1962

PRESENT:

General Taylor, Mr.

General Taylor; Mr. Kennedy; Mr. Johnson; Mr. Gilpatric,

General Decker, General Lansdale and General Craig;

Mr. McCone, and Mr. Harvey

General Lansdale gave an interim report on the progress

of stepping up recruitment of Cubans into the U. S. Army.

the consensus is that there are not more than a thousand suitable

individuals from whom additional recruits could be selected. The

Attorney General commented that the President wishes to have a large

General Lansdale said that various alternatives for training

of such Cubans

are being looked into.

It was agreed that such

a cadre of Cubans would be an asset

to the U.S., which

might be used in a number of ways. General

Lansdale, supported by General Taylor, pointed out that in this

connection the matter of holding the individuals and giving them

useful employment after they are trained is an important and a

difficult one.

2.

Mr. Harvey gave a rundown on progress to date with agent

teams and in the general field of intelligence, including the

Opa-locka interrogation center and

He outlined various difficulties encountered, and said

that three agent teams have been infiltrated and that five W/T sets

are in place.

Approximately 72 actual or potential reporting sources

are also in place.

siguiticant developuent is chat yajor Dugue he

agents responsive to ham to be dispatched-on purely

-This sort of atritude had been

forecast earlier as a possibility.

poetance In view of Dúque's stature.)

but

16 now assures particular in

3.

Haryey also commented on the two attents made to in

Havana

The Group asked that a check be made, as

soon as possible, on how effective these operations were. They also

asked that a copy /95

COLD ES

mend be mode

The Group

felt that it is worthwhile to check this capability out, as is now

being done, but questioned whether once proved effective it should not

perhaps be kept in reserve for a more meaningful time.

Thomas

Hafant

.. Parrott

12

cc: General Lansdale

ce destroyed t9l6s ma

NW 66000 Docld:32977060 Page 3

164

---

