# DOCID-32362045

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER: 104-10120-10164

RECORD SERIES

JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

80T01357A

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM : SE

TO

: RECORD

TITLE

: OFFICE MEMORANDUM: HIDALGO, BALMES N. - #65077.

DATE

02/21/1957

PAGES

2

SUBJECTS

: HIDALGO, BALMES

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS

SECRET

CURRENT STATUS

: RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 08/09/97

COMMENTS

: JFK43 : F4 : 1997.08.09.10:52:13:840102

Released under the John F. Kennedy

issassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note]. Case#:NW

55924 Date: 10-26-2021

---------—

[R]

ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10120-10164

NW 65924 Docld:32362045 Page 1

---

## Page 2

SECRET

STARTARD FORM NO. 6

Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO

.: Chit ssa

DATE: 24 Aug 56

FROM :

SE

SUBJECT:

(11765077

(2) *66378

The 1G, Mr Kirkpatrick, will appeal our decision

against

conversion of the two suggests afore.

to.. Gin. Catalf.

This is based upon representations to ham by Gath Subget During

has very in Panama.

In the cars of sugat (i), please. cheak with FBI Larson

and site than

to writy of podore that he joined the

Cp at the instagation and with the Glassing of Speckal

Agat Edward W. Bucklif fled again did I will need is

Who we his FAI Cosc O

When I call for

thi sommery of the too

-

STANDARD FORM NO. 64

Office Memurandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO

DATE:

CHIEF,

FROM SECURITY SUPFORT DIVISION

not actually as sabict to join the ep but told him that they

and be interested in ac

informant and alavidence nilicited ties he

routed out

es, not exploited hidat

NW 65924 Docld:32362045 Page 2

---

## Page 3

STANDARD FORM NO, 8A

SECRET

Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO

:Record

DATB: 21 Fe6 1957

FROM : 52

SUBJBET: Balmes N. HIBALGO - * 65077

Mr. Helms called a meeting on 19Fc6 with represetting

the undersigned to diseas

a proposal 6,

the If that suggeet br converted to steff employee.

It was agreed that the

sue wall

depend on how much

the fast that sulaget had been

wadely@ubliciaed.og.om

Fat informant wall etfect the

flek-baldy of her use

hi, ost was!

hi, cover, ond his posseble entegraten

into State Dept, I was asked to lnguire of State on

Their policy and was

informed they wald much prefer the

not to integrate a sudgeet of this type. -I so entornd

Mn Helms. IFinal estion mets Etaxen iDIPd IG

SE

STANDARD FORM NO. 6A

Office Meniurandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Recard

DA 38 August 56

CHIEF,

SUBJECT:

#65077

1'a Cares Bitio, 7BI Headquartero Loiem repressive,

NW 65924 Docld:32362045 Page 3

---

