# DOCID-32324520

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/8/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90029-10012

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 100-405298-NR

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: ARMY

FROM:

TO :

USA

TITLE :

Heleased under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note]. Case#:NW

BEDod Date: 11-00-2021

DATE: 06/28/1963

PAGES: 3

SUBJECTS :

POW ASKS WIFE TO JOIN IN CAMPAIGN FOR WORLD PEACE

THOMAS R. PEASNER

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 3

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/20/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF USA

COMMENTS: SUMMARY;

v9.1

NW 66000 Docld:32324520 Page 1

3

---

## Page 2

OR Y

CONFIDENTAE

Hq Fourth Army,

OAC/S, G2,

Fort

sam houston Repas, WELY SUMARY OF DOMESTIC

INTELLIGENCE,

28 June 1953,

Report No.

66.

EXTRACT :

*

*

#

#

POW ASKS WIFE TO JOIN IN CAMPAIGN FOR WORLD

PEACE

(Confidential Mrs. EvELPEASNER, 4943 Rieger St., Dallas, hastrecently

received "letters from her husband, But Thomas

PARRASNER,

RA 18.323 089 POW Camp,

Democratic People's Republic of North Korea, which are worthy of note.

In a

letter dated 3 Dec 52, and mailed care of, The Chinese People's Committee for

World Peace, PEASNER requested his wife to join him in his "work in the fight for

world peace". After reiterating the need for world peace, the POW asked his

wife "to sit down and write 5 letters supporting or requesting support of world

peace. Address them to Senator Iom Connally, President Eisenhower, Paul Robeson,

John Gates (publisher of the New York Daily Worker), and Howard Fast. You may

address Robeson and Fast care of Masses and Mainstream, 832 Broadway, New York, 3,

N.I., of which magazine they are contributing editors".

PEASNER went on to say

"I know that merely as my wife a more than sufficient body of material will present

itself. Express your doubts of the so-called 'benefits' of the Korean war.

Think

of how the Korean people are being systematically destroyed. Think of your

personal suffering in an international light, as the suffering of all the wives of

men in Korea, Indonesia, Malaya, ete.

And remember who is behind it all. Think

and

srite from the viowpoint of the working class, and I am sure that you will.

bring this project to a successful conclusion as apon as possible."

In cloding

his lotter, PEASNER presented a rather sordid picture of what the world might be

like in the event of another world war.

On 17 May 53, Cpl David W. LUDLUM, Ward 9, Percy Jones Army Hospital, Battle

Creek, Mich., wrote to Mrs. PEASNER in answer to questions she had asked about her

husband. LUDLUM, a POW returnee,

Knew him (PEASNER) for

some time but I

never got to know or understand

him mainy,because he attains a much higher

NW 66000 Docld:32324520 Page 2

---

## Page 3

CONFIDENIAL

Security lifoimation

intellectual plane than I do and he doesn't come down to earth much. So because

of that I cannot tell you hardly how he has adapted himself of course, I believe

to be only fair I should not say anything that he might not want to have said."

LUDLUM mentioned a "Jack NOBLE from Cal," with

whom PEASNER had been comoosing

music when he, PEASER, was not "playing cards and reading." According to

LUDLUM&s letter, Mrs. PEASNER has received about 6 letters from her husband,

which LUDLUM considered about average.

The hospitalized POW returnee added,

in closing, "as for him writing articles, I could not say about that.

But I'm

sure if he wrote any they were of his own free will".

(RO Dallas)

(B-2)

(Fourth Army) G2 Comment: (Confidential) It appears that PEASNER may

have been subjected to an intensive Communist indoctrination program

POW.

As his letter contains elements of the CP line, it is

possible he may

have fallen victim to the Indoctrination program. It is also possible that

PEASNER may have found it expedient to cooperate with the Chinese authorities

while not actually believing in their principles.

Whatever the case, The

Chinese People's Committee for World Pease 1s probably using PEASNER fOr

propaganda purposes.

ROBESON (Negro), FAST, and GATES are all well known

American CP members.

The Daily Worker is the official organ of the American

CP

and

the Masses and Mainstream

now the New Masses) has been cited by the

House Un-Amarican Activities Committee

a CP front publication.

(B-2)

CONFIDENTIAL

Securit,

liformation

2

NW 66000 Docld:32324520

Page 3

---

