# DOCID-32265274

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

10/1/201

AGENCY: HSCA

RECORD NUMBER :

180-10113-10400

RECORD SERIES: NUMBERED FILES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

003963

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

HSCA

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

BOWLEY, TEMPLE F.

Released under the John F. Kennedy

assassination Records Collection Act of

1 992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

56000 Date: 11-04-2021

DATE: 11/12/1977

PAGES:

6

SUBJECTS :

BOWLEY, TEMPLE FORD

TIPPIT, J.D.; SHOOTING

RUBY, JACK; BACKGROUND; ASSOCIATES AND RELATIVES

DOCUMENT TYPE: • SUMMARY

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 3

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 10/25/1995

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS:

Box 84.

v9.1

NW 66000 Docld:32265274 Page 1

---

## Page 2

003963

INVESTIGATION INTERVIEW SCHEDULE

1.

Identifying Information:

ENOk Ford DoWEV

Address a32-% BUCKiER /By.

city/state DAllAS, LEgHS

Date of Birth 8-2-28

social security 445-26-5052

2. Physical Description:

Height 5 '//"

Weight 1 89.

Ethnic Group

whitz

Date

NoveMbre 18, 427

Place REsidENCE

Mor S

MARRiEd

Spouse_

JOYE

M

Children

y coughins

Color Eyes

Haix Mixed Gary

Special Characteristics

3.

Personal History:

a.

Present Employment: WEstERN ElEctric Co

Address 308 - So

AkARd

_St. DAllAS, TEXAS

Telephone

_: 651-1000

.НомЕ - 928 -6060

b.

Criminal Record

1. Arrests

2. DWI

•convictions PlEAd

4...

Additional Personal Information:

a.

Relative(s) : Name BoNNie P Besick

Address

1936 Ruby DRi

Faring, TEXAS

DAllas

b. Area frequented:

c. Remarks:

Investigator

DAY, MARX WE + AKAp.

Date_ 11-12-2Z

NW 66000 Docld:32265274 Page 2

FOIM #4-3

---

## Page 3

OUTSIDE CONTACT REPORT

DATE

11-12-17 TIME 3 %0

PM

I.:

Identifying Information:

Name TeMplE foRd Bowled

Telephone 214-328-6060

Address 639 BucKwER BbL.,

Dallas, TEXAS

Type of Contact:

Telephone

I Person

II.

III.

-Summary of Contact:

Bewley advised that on the dany of the AssAsSiNatIoN

hE ANd his 12iR old daughER WERE dRiviNg PASS ThE

SCENE Of The tippit shooting. He stopped his CHR

And went to the officion. Heused the offickes

SCOutCAR RAdio to CAll FOR Help, ANd REMAiN

-Ed eN thE SeRVE UNtl oThER offiCeS ARRivE

ME Also REcAlled latER MatiNg A FaRMA!

WRiTTEN StATMENt AT TOliCE HERdOLARIeS.

H6 did Not SEe ThE ShesTig takE PlaCE.

SOMEy VOluNtEeRed ThAt he had KNoWiN ludy

since the lyso's and ot one time brid worked

Tor him as a dorman ot the Silver Spear.

(A Ruby AttoR-hour -PlAcE)

Recommended Follow-up (if any):

A Follow-up INTERVIEVY.

Signature:

ClaRENCE J. DAY

Form #5

Al

MAXWEll

HARold LibAp.

NW 66000- Docld:32265274 Page 3

---

## Page 4

SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

NAME

Temple Ford Bowley

Address

639 North Buckner Blvd.

Date 11/12/77 Time 3:30 p.m.

Place

Dallas, Texas

Phone:: 328-6060

Interview: By Investigators Day, Maxwell and Leap

Bowley advised that on the afternoon of November 22, 1963,

the day President Kennedy was assassinated, he had picked

up his 12 year old daughter from school and was driving tọ

meet his wife

(his first wife not his present wife) at

her place of employment. His wife worked at the telephone

office located at 9th and Zang Avenue in Oak Cliff.

Bowley was driving his 1961 Tempest Station wagon, light

tan in color.

He was driving West on 10th Street from

Marselia.

As he approached the corner of loth and Patton

Street, he noticed a person lying on the ground in front of

and near the left front wheel of a police car.

He noticed

other people in the neighborhood beginning to gather near

the car and body.

Bowley stated that he and another man, who he described as

a Mexican male, were the first ones to go to the assistance

of the man on the ground. He also remembered seeing a white

female wearing a white uniform and a nurse type name plate.

Interviewe

(Signature)

DAY, MAXWELL, LEAF

(Name)

Date Transcribed

: 11/23/77

by Lu

(Ini

NW 66000 Docld:32265274 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Temple Ford Bowley -Intervu - 2 -

This woman, Bowley stated, was standing across the street

from the man lying in the street.

Bowley pulled his car to the right side of the roadway,

about 100 yards from where the man was lying and got out on

the driver's side and went to the man on the ground. The man

his

was lying on/right side with his face down.

When Bowley

reached him he rolled him over on his back. He could see

that he was dead. He found no signs of life. Bowley stated

that he saw no blood and did not know that the man had been

shot at the time. Recognizing the man as being a police officer

Bowley stated he found the officers revolver on the ground

under him. The weapon was out of it's holster and near the

officers right hand. Bowley picked the weapon up and placed

it on the front seat of the scout car. The radio of the scout

car was on and the Mexican man was attempting to use it to

call for help. Bowley informed the man that he was familiar

with two-way radio's and if he'd let him, he could get the

call

for help through. Using the police radio in the scout

car,

Bowley notified the police dispatcher

that an officer

had been shot and gave his location. After acknowledging the

call the police dispatcher asked "will the citizen please clear

the air." at that time.he

put the microphöne down. Bowley

remained on the scene until the police arrived. White awaiting

the arrival of the police Bowley began to ask what had happened.

He was

told by someone on the scene that a man shot the officer

NW 66000 Docld:32265274 Page 5

---

## Page 6

Temple Ford Bowley-Intervu - 3 -

and had ran West on l0th Street toward the Church. When

the police arrived on the scene Bowley gave a uniformed

officer his name and where he could be reached, and informed

him that he was leaving town and going on a vacation. The

officer told Bowley to contact police when he returned.

Bowley left the area driving West on Tenth Street and turned

right to 9th and Zang, where he picked up his wife and went

home. When Bowley returned from his vacation in San Antonia,

(he did not remember the date) he contacted the police and

later went to police headquarters and

gave a statement

to

detective.

During this interview Bowley stated that he knew Jack Ruby

and had been associated with him since the 1950's. He had

worked for Ruby at Ruby's after hour club, .

"the Silver Spur,"

Bowley advised that he first met Ruby when a club he was

running, the Hernando's Hide-away, ran into financial problems.

Ruby stepped in and took over the club. This club was on

Greenville Avenue in Dallas.

This

was in 1951 or 1952, After this Bowley went to work

for ruby. At one time he collected the cover money on the

door at Ruby's after hour club "the Silver Spur." Bowley

worked for Ruby off and on until about 1957 or 1958.

NW 66000 Docld:32265274 Page 6

---

## Page 7

Temple Ford Bowley-Intervu - 4 -

Bowley stated he first

found out that ruby had killed

Oswald while he was

at

a hunting lodge in San Antonia, on

vacation on Sunday November 24

:, 1963.

Present during this interview was Mrs. Joye M. Bowley

(Temple Bowley's present wife). She volunteered that she

had known Ruby and his Bookkeeper prior to marrying Bowley.

She was not thoroughly interviewed at this time.

NW 66000 Docld:32265274 Page 7

---

