# DOCID-32270651

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Forn

Date:

2/9/2016

Agency Information

AGENCY:

HSCA

RECORD NUMBER :

180-10140-10347

RECORD SERIES: CIA SEGREGATED COLLECTION

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 09-12-01

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: HSCA

FROM: BLAKEY, G. ROBERT

TO :

BRECKINRIDGE, SCOTT

TITLE :

Heleased under the John F. Kennedy

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

07/13/1978

3

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

CIA, FILES

LETTER

Unclassified

1A; 1B

Redact

07/25/1995

Box 3

v9.1

NW 66000 Docld:32270651 Page 1

---

## Page 2

• UNCLASSIFIED

: INTERNAL

USE ONLY

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

CONFIDENTIAL®

SECRET •

SUBJECT: (Optional).

FROM::

EXTENSION

Rodger S. Gabrielson

1385

TO:

building) F

(Officer designation, room number, and

DATE

RECEIVED

FORWARDED

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

•Norbert

Shepanek

PCS/ LOC

Tube: DX-6 Green Be

Bill Sturbits

RussHelmes

DATE

OLC-78-2637

18 July 1978

COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom

to whom. Draw

a line across column after each commens.)

Interiess are

requested u

the thing

агни

Lan

10.

12.

13

I'll folloco uy

i will barble

file explanations.

Shep,

1-3: 20 go pila

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1993

CIA MISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

FORM.

3-02

610 EDITONDS

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

NW 66000 Docld:32270651 Page 2

---

## Page 3

у г.н. 18.С

YVONNE TEATMIVAITE MUAKE, CALIT.

PUrD S PITHIAN, INO.

ПОНЕНГ Ы. ЕОСАП, ТЛ.

WART N. MCKINYEY, CONN:

MATOLD S. SAWYEH, MICH.

(202) 225-4629

*elect Committee on Assassinations

al.E. House of Sepresentattues

3331 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING. ANNEX. 2

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

July 13,

1978

li Sule 1916

CC: :A2637

COMMITTLE SENSITIVE

F:

Mr. Scott Breckinridge

Principal Coordinator/HSCA

Office of Legislative Counsel

Central Intelligence Agency

Washington, D. C. 20505

2 49 PH '78

Dear Mr. Breckinridge:

I write in reference to the Committee's requests of 6

June 1978 and 8 June 1978 that the Central

Intelligence Agency

make

available for review by Committee staff members all files

and index references to the following individuals:

Luisa Calderon

AMMUG/ 1

During the week of 2 July 1978, various files concerning

the above-named individuals were made available

for review to

Charles Berk of this Committee.

Mr. Berk has now reviewed

Luisa Calderon's 201 file and AMMUG/l's Office of Security file,

Office of Personnel file,

and Volumes One and Two of AMMUG/l's

201 file covering the period 25 April 1964 - October 1965.

After a careful review of these materials, it has been

determined that CIA-originated reports of 5 May

1964, 6 May

1964,

7 May 1964, 8 May 1964, 11 May 1964, and 19 June 1964,

each

based upon AMMUG/l's knowledge, are absent from the

materials provided to Mr. Berk.

Furthermore, neither notes nor

memoranda upon which these reports may have been based are

present

in the files.

The

content of these reports,

notes and

memoranda are of substantial interest to the Committee.

It has

also been determined that AMMUG/l material now stored by the

CIA at its Warrenton, Virginia facility has not been made fully

available to the Committee.

This omission came to Mr. Berk's

attention inadvertently during a conversation that he had with

Chris Hopkins.

Mr. Berk's review of a 1 May 1964 CIA-originated

patch also indicates that at least twenty-two reels of tape

NW 66000 Docld:32270651 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Mr. Scott

Breckinridge

July 13,

1978

Page 2, 1978

COMMITTEE SENSITIVE

recorded interviews conducted by CIA represchtatives with

AMMUG/1 are absent from the files provided thus far to the

Committee.

These twenty-two reels of tape recordings were

listed

as

attachments to the above-referenced CIA dispatch.

The actual interviews from which the tape recordings were

generated were conducted shortly after AMMUG/l's defection

from the Cuban Intelligence Service.

Furthermore, three trans-

scripts of tape recorded CIA

interviews with AMMÜG/1 are absent

from the files thus

far provided to the Committee.

These

transcripts were listed as attachments to a CIA-originated re-

port of 30 April 1964.

The actual interviews upon which the

transcripts are based were also conducted shortly after AMMUG/l's

defection from the Cuban Intelligence Service.

In the case of Luisa Calderon's CIA files, CIA informa-

tional

reports,

cables,

and dispatches referenced to in her 201

file have been

found to be absent from that file.

In addition,

a CIA transcript of a telephone

conversation in which she par-

ticipated on the day of President kennedy's assassination is

absent from her

201 file.

The absence of these reports, notes, memoranda, and other

material from the AMMUG/I files and the Luisa Calderon files

reviewed to date

may be

an indication that other related

materials have not yet been made available to the Committee for

review.

The Committee therefore reiterates its reguest that all

soft files and subject files, be made available to the Commit-

tee

as soon as possible.

The Committee further requests that AMMUG/1 CIA case

officers Harold Swenson, and Barney Hidalgo, FNU Langosch, and

Daniel Flores be made immediately available

for personal inter-

views with Committee staff members.

As some of the matters discussed herein may be of a

sensitive or classified nature, this communication may require

appropriate classification.

Thank you for your continued cooperation.

Sincerely,

8. At late

Chief Counsel

GRB : cbd

NW 66000 Docld:32270651 Page 4

---

