# DOCID-32349290

## Page 1

Date: 12/20/04

JEK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER : 1041007110194

RECORD SERIES

JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

80T01357A

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM : WITHHELD

TO : HEADQUARTERS

TITLE : FIELD INFORMATION REPORT: "NEGOTIATIONS BETWEEN LUDWIG

STARKE AND ROLANDO MASEFERER WITH A VIEW TOWARD. MUTUAL

SUPPORT FOR PROJECTED REVOLUTIONARY MOVEMENTS*

DATE : 02/23/1968

PAGES : 3

SUBJECTS : WITHHELD

INTELLIGENCE REPORT

MADRIGAL, DIEGO

MASFERRER, ROLA

MELO,

FERNANDO

STARKE, LUDWIG

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER

CLASSIFICATION

: SECRET

RESTRICTIONS

1B

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 07/31/93

COMMENTS : JEK15 : F13

: 1993.07.31.08:32:51:870059

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10071-10194

NW 65924 Docld:32349290 Page 1

.............000:

---

## Page 2

coopstlon, mould unn Costa Rican soix as a staging aron tor

to overthrow Presidant Bone Davellor.

Il succorsiul, Sautorror and hia

Haltian cobores vuld then

mapply lands and arsent

to Starke for hie projectod moye

malest the trojos coveraneat.

Nolo later informad Oduber that ho was planning to

no to Nor York City on 11 Vebruary, ontennibly to vial u

true Jurpose of bis visit

tho clert who has ropressotod leer

In too nogotiations,

through solo,

with Starse.

bes condonioned by starte to ascertain tho

gunnilty and

murce ol nons that the Losterror

to Starke 1l the croup succoods in overthrowins Durtler.

Belo sino la to lind out poot other asiatones the Masteror

to Starke, how sany Faitian nod Caban

OR los saalerTer will sen to foste Rich, ind that they pill

got e Conta Rican vira already bas been

obtained for Jacques

Korloglase, & BAItIAD,

mho will be the

firat of tho croup of tsities and Cubes anties to come to

Costa Rica to sot up thote otaging Bros. Boringlane i

wo outard by Scarks througa

Ministry of Mblic Security.

lold Consent:

Doo has the roputation Locally o1

bies so lovotorate lotriguor sod a biscort:

Iberatore, bir

vernolty is open to quentlou.

It Is posalble coat too dolor

melon he las chess to Odubor Is to sore ortont exccertod

I* in els possiblo that Scorte will Clod Brio

to bel len this tricortly lateradiary.

Fiold Dianen:

State Aray CINCBOOTH (a) bo

Dorim-e1ne

ppla

puP.

QW 65924 Docld:32349290 Page 2

A CARD

---

## Page 3

FIELD INFORMATION REPORT

PAGE I OF 2

PAGES

REPORT NO

DATE DISTO

23 February 1968

COMTAY CostA RICa

DO!

SUBJECT

February 1968

Negotiations Between Ludwig Starke

and Rolando Masterrer with a Vlew

Tomrd Mutual

Support for Projected

Revolutionary Movements

A CO

SQUACE

Costa Rica,

San

Jose

FIELD NO.

HRS - 4099

(15 - 23 February 1960)

A high-level member of the National Liberation Party (PLN)

who has access

to and the contidence of

top leaders of his

His strong identiiscation with the PuN and the

knowlodge that his reporting will reach U.S, official

clrcles probably cause hin to present his

beat advantage of the PLN. He has submittad reliable

formation during

the pret

year, but he has been known to

withhold portinent information.

He received the infor

Elon tron

Danter Odubex*

test do kicen

Chold Coront:

TEs: 314/0100000 reported that

Ladoto Otarto Jinones, a richt ving extronint to is the

loder ol to escurity forces of

the Loviniento Conta Blos

marty (10), toat bo tao mriss pioce and soong epport

Nor o posablo povo spaloat the Costa Alcan Covermoat is

the evont that it should appens to lo 10 days Of us

Into tho bondo ol loftisto.

To that ond Bearto ms bogo

Catin vich canthotte croup outaldo of Conta Mica.

no in indirect contaot with Rolando Balorer, & Caba

co Involved in plotting agaiest the Covere ate of Balti

and Cut Mich to Me a touch

through ferrando Solo Youtanillo, & Cubia outle

with a priont associatod

(20-0965)

In aid-lebruary Odubor said that ho had contaotod

Kolo, mos to bad knows for sono Clao, in an offort to lourn

about tho nogotiations botron Starke and lterer, o

vich Nolo bad boon ceting as 8D

intermediary. Molo sid

that tho objootivo of the nogotiation me to

Bort out t

plan whereby Haition and Cuban oxiles, with Starke's

NW/ 65924s Doeld:32349290 Page 3

---

## Page 4

cooperation,

coutd ace Conta Rican soil no a atagins area for

ol Kaict,

to overthrow Prostdent line Dvaller

I! coccosaful, Instozzor end kio

Baltian cotorte would tbes

supply funds and arsent to Btarko for his projected soy®

against the Trojor coveransat

Mole dater informod Odubor that ho ras plannias to

go to Ney for Clty on 21 Dobrary, ostensibly

Bors 01 B10 e

tho true purpoo of bis vialt

morial Alvror, the prioat who bas reprosontod tolerter

In the negotiations, through Melo,

with starte

bon comanloned by Starto to accortals the quantity and

monroe of as that Ebs Mosierzor group vill ike voilable

to Barto 11 the grop succoods In overthrowing Duvaller.

Blo mino l0 to lind out mat otber assistanco the Dariere

troup vill provide

to Starte, how many Baltian nad Caban

Pill send to dogfe Rice, and men they all?

Solo 181d

obtained for ineques

firot of the proup of lastian and Cuban oxtle to come 19

until rocently me the chiol clork (Ollicial nayor) of the

Ministry of Public Focurity.

matE DE 101031

(Viold Consont:

Moto has the roputation locally ot

boins an lovotorate lotriguer and a brorsart..

Therefor

viraclE do opa to quantlon.

mation he has giron to Ocubar In to sone oxtent excreratod

1* In sis socible that Sicke vil Liad Kelo

to bes lon this tantrily lacemodiary.?

Field Dianta:

Scate Ary CINCBOOTH (1140

20st

pulP.

XWV 65924

Docld:32349290

Page 4

---

