# DOCID-32353202

## Page 1

Date: 01/10/05

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER

: 104-10087-10130

RECORD

SERIES

JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

: 80T01357A

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM

TO

TITLE

DATE

PAGES

: DDO FILES ON

01/01/1976

WERBELL (INFORMAL SUMMARY, 1959-1975) •

5

SUBJECTS : WERBELL

DOCUMENT TYPE

: PAPER

CLASSIFICATION

: SECRET

CURRENT STATUS

RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

07/21/93

COMMENTS : JFK27: F36: 1993.07.21.15:39:42:400280 : UNDATED

DOCUMENT; LATEST DATE REFERENCED IS 12/30/75.

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note]. Case#:NW

65924 Date: 10-25-2021

[R]

- ITEM IS

RESTRICTED

104-10087-10130

NW 65924 Docld:32353202 Page 1

---

## Page 2

• DDO files on WerBell.

i LIZEMAT

140 dad

#grader, 2a pintpat 4,11

Reported by Irving-Richard Poyle: (doctiment dated in Jamary: 1974)u.

Anselmito Aliergro is reportedly working.for WerBell.--Aliegro and--one...

"Jerry Patrick" are reportedly carrying CIA identification and telling

Cubans in Miami that they and WerBell are CIA. Repordedly had a business

on 8th Street and sold ga guns.

Ietter from Edwin Marger re: clarification of werBell's 201 request, dated

30 Dec 1975 sats that MW was in "Cuba tat the time of the Castro Military

Operation", Dominican Rupublic during military operation, Thailand and'

Vietnam.

FOIA reguest routing Isip, dated 17 April, 1975 says that WerBells POA

was granted so as to use him. as a source sitxx on revolutionary matters in

"the Carribbean area, specifically Cuba and the Dominican Republic."

POA granted 4 August 1959. POA was cancelled in Oct 1959 shanxitx at

the request of WID "as use of the subject was no longer contemplated. 0002.319

Dispatch from Chief of JMWAVE to Chief of WH dated 13 Jun 1966:

"According to his file WerBell appears to be a low level, would=be con man

who has a history of being involved in Castro assassination schemes and of

provessing to be connected, or at least in contact with KUBARK. According

to AMRAZZ/1, timoonagauta

'livingtson' was involved with Antonio Veciana's

alleged assassination ploy and he was masquerading as a KUBARK officer....

2. "Iivingston' has as yet failed to call on AMRAZ/l as he had promised

Cogswell in New York City." signed by Philip G. Elmara.

Dispatch no dayte, j by Elmard:

James Cogswell tais a NY attorney intrat mentioned in connection with

raising funds for Eloy Gutierrez Menoyo.

" b. Antonio Veciana Blanck (201-312966) - Born 18 October 1928 in Havana.

He is a public accountand by profession. He is titular head of Alpha 66

and a member of MRP and SFNE. He lives in Puerto Rico. He has a cryptonym

and is of marginal operational interest to JMWAVE CI Branch as a source of

information obtained by AMKnob/1 for the CUIS." date is probably around

same time as preivious as bas same subject heading and concerns same

people operation, etc.

Contact report dated 25 April 1966:

"Cogswell told (am)Razz that he was expecting Antonio Veciana at that moment.

Veciana, Cogsuell saidn, was in a plan to assassinatest Figel Castro. Details

of the plan were lacking. Beciana wanted Cogswell to introduce him to a man

known andly as FNU Livingston, form 'Wintson, Massachusetts.' Cagswell's

sister, mane unknown, who works in Washington, DC-presented livingston to

Cogswell about a month ago. Beciana showed up while Cogsell and Razz were

talking.

Veciana surprise at seenig Razz was astounding. In private, Veciana

•...Cogsewll told Razz that on Sunday night, 17 April, he had introduced

Veciana to Livingston. The latter two had spoken in private after which

veciana came away very pleased byt did not disclose anything except that he had

a plan to assassinate Castro."

Cogstell "will be remembered as being involved in fund raising for the 'Prince-

Pelaez' plot to kill Castro."

MW requested CIA permission for an attempt of Fidel in January, 1966.

The permission was requested in December 1965.

MW reported he was taking a group of about 6 Cubans in to get Fidel and

Raul at a big rally in Havana.'

MW also discused plan with one Richard Phillips, Public Affairs Officer,

NW 65924 Docld:32353202 Page 2

Departmit of state. His boat wag Wiped nith morters.

---

## Page 3

2

MW contacted "occasionally at headquarters" before his POA revoked. It was

revoked because "it was determined that he had no worthwhile information to

offer nor was he able to develop any. He was assessed by Headquarters as a

'wheller dealer' type with considerable intelligence but unable to realize

much success in promotion work and that his approaches to KUBARK were designed

primarily to obtain financial support."

Dispatch UFGW-5572 dated 28 Sept 1965.

also sats that in May of 62 was in Managua as vice president of Communicattions

International Itd attempting to sell surplus arms.

Was also attempting to sell

an "International Investigation Service". Attempts were unsaccessfllu.

In December of 64 was reported in Dominican Republic inassociation with

Finca/Frutas intercontinentales, CaPor A.

Cable from JMBARR ta (Wave Cite Barr 2232) dated 28 Sept 65:

AMSWIRL/I said that WerBell was a crew member on Venus and worked with

"JURE Group".

DispatchUFGA-23126 dated 2;0 Sept 1965 reportst MW's connection with AMLEO/3

and his group.

AMLEO-3's sister contacting her uncle, Emilio Nunez Portuondo to help since

AMLEO$3 has been captured by GOC.

Cable to Mana from DIR (12828) dated 16/8/62 says "Relationship x8(with MW)

terminated on friendly basis October 1959. ANKUBARK opinion BWerBell wished

use KUBARK funds to promote his personal interests. His intel not highly

regarded." Cabled released by J.C.King, Authenticated by William K. Harvey.

Cross reference to a doucument (Guat-02709?) that sez MW back in Guatamala

and is presing GOG to make "United Organizations for Liberation of Cuba

the basis for Exile governement in Dec. 1962. Pressure being amplied through

Ydigoras son.

Memo for file, Dated 18 February 1963 reports WerBell and Arthur L. Smith

vere attempting to Get Guatemala, Nicaragua, and El Salvador to recogniz

a de facto Cuban government in exile caled "United Organization offor the

Liberation of Cuba:" head of organization was Mario Garcia Kohly (provisional

president) WerBell reportedly offered $100,000 to Nic Govt.. Also associated

with group were Frank M. Austin, Marshall R. Diggs, Manuel Fuego (aka Firestone)

and Col. John F. Kieffer.

Unless subsequently noted this is theonly document for 1963.

0002320

SECRET

NW 65924 Docld:32353202 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Guat 2441 dated I-Sept 1962: a mueno

• SECRET

.. 0002321.

nan attain

•MASTE M1GN MEN T 121 10 FE

Mayor of Miami Robert King asso involved in trying to unite Cuban exiles, was

meeting with-Ydigoras.and was backing group called Consejo Reolucionario Cybana

Salv4225 dated 24 Aug 1962315110412

Tony Verona visits President Rivera on 2lst: Reports Kohly has been a rival

of Miro Cardona and Varona elemants. Admits Kohly Anti-Castro but &

says he

is probably trying to sabotage Varona's efforts or "gain ascendancy"

Guat 2426 dated Aug 22, 62 reports WerBells arrival and that he is accompanied

by on Lucy Luchien.

Wave 7169 dated 17 Aug 1962 says:

"files relfetc Mario Garcia Kohly previous maneuvers over long period to

obtain financial support from Kubark and doath.

Overtures turned dona

basis unfounded claims. Detailed investigation made by Mr. Robert Andrews.

NATE

DIR 80730637 dated 17 August 1962:

"Garcia Kohly, WerBell, and Smith are well known Kubark Hes and considered to

be wheelers and dealers, peddlers of grandiose schemes, and unscrupulous.

Garcia Kohly is well aware of Odyoke opposition to Cuban Govt in exile as

result his persistent tho unsuccessful efforts sell self and Govt in exile

concept to Odyoke and private Pbprime businessmen past two years."

Gua t 2423 dated $21 Aug 1962:

reports sWerBell involved in an earlier effort to sell arms and provide

anti-commie mercenaries to Guat.

16' Aug 62, Mana 4029 reports tha t group planning invasion for mid-august.

Organization in Cuba called Junta Civica Militiar Cristiano (JCMC) and the

exile chief is one Colonel Jose Pinexiro Pasz. Thsi cable reports that

NIc wants to sign the protocal. (they eventually of course don't)

Guat 2412 dated 15 Aug 62:

Smith ishas cards showing him as Vice President of Faraday Techinical Corp.,

228A SW 2nd Ave., Miami. Reports that on I J.A. Hakane aond Josi Fuleterio

Pedraza Cabrega : WerBell and Kane were in Guat in May 62 offering to sell

small arms and mercenaries.

DIR 29811 dated 14 Aug 62 reports tht MW travelled to Dominican Republic in

1959 and became involved with Anti Castro plotters. Smith, as of June 60

was a member of Jones and Handy Marine Architect Firm, Miami. Smith travelled

to Cuba several times between Jamuary 1959 and March 1960. Firm waas working on

a steel mill in Oriente province. One "Piner

"Pineiro" is allegedly involved in plot. HQ can't ID an exile with that name

who may be travelling to Guat. Reports that "Major Manuel Pineiro Losada is

Assistant Chief Cuban G-2 and well nown member Castro's entourage" but unlikey

that this is the one involved because the difficulties he would have in

traveling to Guat.

Wave 6830 dated Aug 11, 62 reports thta MW isx was involved in Plan to ship

arms to Ecuador "for attempted overthrow there by CP." this according to one

Patrick J. Karnley, At time COS in San Jaun.

Guat 2406 reports that MW and Simth are in Guat awaiting the arival of one

NW 65924 b6l2592,2624page aka Commandanteerpsa.

dated 9 Aug 1962

---

## Page 5

+ SECRET

0002322

Mana 3949 dateed 21 May 1962 says that MW and Manual Firesotne trying to sell

Mato Surpluss weapons.

Thomas J. Flores Memo for Record dated 13 October 1959: MW called him on 9/25

to a report a big meeting of "heavy financiers of the opposition to Castro"

to be held in DC during week of 9/28. involved: Jorge Bethart and FNU Sanchez

MW asks that CIA underarite his attendance of meeting. Flores

recommends to C/wH/III that "we either terminate Subject or put him to work"

termintated for following reasons:

"a. his motavation is obviously to use the Agency as ast source of financing

for his personal business schemes.

b. As an American his access to full information on Cuban revolutionary

activities will alsways be limited.

This is borne out by the fact that his

information, while indicating some access, has been incomplete and obviously

second or third hand.".

# Flores again talked to MW on 10/2:

"I told subject that after due consideration of the risks to him, the const

in time and effort to him, and the risks and expenses involved for the Agency,

balanced against assets generally available throughout the intelligence community

and his access to additional information, it had been decided not to give him

any operational tasks at this time,. I suggested that since the bulk of the

matters which come to his attention in connection with the Cuban matter take

place in the united States, he should report such information to the FBI. Subject

appeared to understand that we would not use him and expressed his regret. The

conversation ended on a friendly note."

Flores memo for the record dated 23 Sept 1959: Werbell reports that "Joe

Merola and a number of others have been discussing the counterfeiting of United

States dollars and Cuban pesos for use in connection with Cuban revolutionar

activities." I suggests he tell FBI and MW says he will. MW reported back

that FBI referred him to sS. Ikes

Flores memo for record dated 5 Aug 59:

"Althoguh the has been evasive and obviously not completely frank with us,

it appears tha WerBell does have access to information of interest on Cuban

and Dominican Revolutionary activities aimed at against the Castro Government, &

and that he

is well conencted with the underworld elements operating in the

Miami area."

Memo also notes that Flores has learned of POA.

Flores memo for hte Record dated 5 August 1959:

Report from AMBOAR that William Morgan is involved in a plot to assassinate

Castro. (Subject is telephone conversations with "Reichhardt".) also has

this paragraph: "ReichHardt said tha t he was out of touch also with Nunez

Portuondo. He said he had tried to phone Nunez on a number of occasions

but the phone was not answered. Discreet inquires in Mimai also indicated

that Nunez' location is unknown at this time. Reichahrdt said he is still

holding the letter from Col. King to Nunez."

Documents also indicate that werBell was providing information on A "General

Pedraza who was in the Dominican Republic in 1959 trying to organize anti-

Castro activities. Involved with Pedraza was Rolondo Masferrer.

MW was reporting that Masferrer was one of Pedraza's contacts

in the US.

Undated memo for thextistesobrmwi/C/OPS: on "call from Mr. Dick Phillips

(State) regarding the Arrest of jAMLEO-3. :

NW 65924 Docld:32353202 Page 5

SECRET

---

## Page 6

SECRET

mid de datalia dania a i destro serious i see

AARA REALITA

s-1990.=tr,812

4:A NO ME MARM, 01N €

eatista i mean estan desitand tacovera sui

"The three Cubans- that WerBell reported arrested are Jose-Ricardo: Rabel Nunez

(Amleo-3) Gilberto Fondora-and Miguel-Ramos…. These men were crew members. Of

the JURE mother vessel Venus:

From JMWAVE: reports it appears that AMLEO-3

was attempting to exfiltrate his family, using the venus, when he was caught

by Cuban security formes on 3 September 19;65.

Various memos show that MW reporting on Joe Marola.

0002323

SECRET

NW 65924 Docld:32353202 Page 6

---

