# DOCID-32270549

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

2/4/2016

AGENCY: HSCA

RECORD NUMBER :

180-10140-10245

RECORD SERIES: CIA SEGREGATED COLLECTION

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

08-26-01

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: HSCA

FROM: BLAKEY, G. ROBERT

TO:

CARPENTIER, PATRICK

TITLE :

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Issassination Records Collection Act ol

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note]. Case#:NW

SAID Date: 11-04-2021

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

03/02/1978

2

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS:

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS:

CIA, FILES

LETTER

Unclassified

1A

Redact

07/25/1995

Box 2

v9.1

NW 66000 Docld:32270549 Page 1

---

## Page 2

1, 016.5

BANNEL A DIVINE, ONIO

XY, D.C.

"TI BURNE, CALI. CHARLES THONE, NEON.

1 MANOLO S. SAWTIN, MICH.

A. TINES,

(202) 223-6626

Select Committee on Assassinations

E.E. House of Representatibes

3931 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX. 2

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

March 2, 1978

Mr. Patrick Carpentier

Office of the Legislative Counsel

Central Intelligence Agency

Washington, D. C. 20505

Dear Me. Carpentier:

In connection with its investigation into the circumstances

surrounding the death, of President Kennedy, the Select Committee

on Assassinations requests access to all files and index refer-

ances

pertaining to the following individuals:

1)

MAURICE BISHOP,-aka. JOHN BISHOP, JIM BISHOP, and ENU

FIRGAULT.

This name is most likely an alias and this

individual's true name is not known to the Committee.

Bishop was working in anti-Castro operations in the

early 1960s. He was also allegedly involved in a plot

to assassinate Fidel Castro in Chile in 1971 with An-

tonio Veciana and Luis Posada.

2)

WIROGUE - CIA agent involved in the ZRRIFLE program.

Further identifying information on the following indiviquals

will be given orally, pursuant to an agreement between Bob Genzman

of bur staff and Roger Gabrielson of your staff.

3) GEORGE BREEN

4) ELEANOR BREEN .

5)

WILLIAM V. BROE

6) JIM DELANEY

7). JERRY FOX

8)

ROBERT S. HASHIMA

9) CHESTER ITO

10) ELWOOD D. (Pete) MARTIN

NW 66000 Docld:32270549 Page 2

---

## Page 3

MI.

Patrick Carpentier

March 2, 1978

Page 3

Joseph Burkholder Smith

Rudy Bruno

Charles Flick

Dan Vogel

Arthur Dooley

Wesley J. Leibeler

Howard P. Willins

W. David Slawson

William Coleman

Samuel Stern

George Frederick Muno

J. Deering Davidson

Floryan Randolph Karty

Oliver N. Primack

this letter serves as written confirmation of

1) Originals of any existing surveillance production

and logs of any operations directed at the soviet

and Cuban Embassies for the period of 9/26/63 to

to 10/3/63, In Mexico City.

2) Any 201 files pertaining to FNU Nunez Portuondo.

Thank you for your continued cooperation.

Sincerely,

S.Nobt Bleaks

G.

Robert Blakey

Chief Counsel and Director

GRB: jha

NW 66000 Docld:32270549 Page 3

---

