# DOCID-32368708

## Page 1

JEK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

• - - - ------------

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY.

RECORD NUMBER

RECORD

SERIES

AGENCY FILE

NUMBER

CIA

104-10140-10431

JEK

80T01357A

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

AGENCY ORIGINATOR

: CIA

FROM

GABRIELSON, RODGER S.

TITLE

DATE

PAGES

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD WITH AGENDA: SUBJECT: HOUSE

SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS (HSCA) TASK FORCE

MEETING. - 4 MAY 1978, ROOM 6E60

05/04/1978

: 4

SUBJECTS : HSCA

MEETING

TASK FORCE

GUIDELINES

DOCUMENT TYPE

: PAPER

CLASSIFICATION : SECRET

RESTRICTIONS : 1A 1B

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 08/04/93

COMMENTS : JFK53 : F6: 1993.08.04.18:05:25: 370058: 2 PARTS

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

65924 Date: 10-26-2021

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10140-10431

NW 65924 Docld:32368708 Page 1

---

## Page 2

SECRET

OLC 78-1632

4 May 1978

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: House Select Committee on Assassinations (HSCA) Task Force

Meeting - 4 May 1978, Room 6E60

Attendees

Lyle L. Miller, OLC

Patrick L. Carpentier, OLC

Rodger S. Gabrielson, OLC

Norbert Shepanek, O/SA/DO/O

Don Gregg, SA/DO/O

Scott Breckinridge, DD/IG

John Leader, OIG

Dick Rininger, OGC

E. Jones, OS

Ray Reardon, OS

Bruce Johnson

DDA

_Mike Sednaoui, CI Staff

Bill Sturbitts, DDO/LA Division

Lavon Strong, PA

1. (S) Mr. Miller opened the meeting by reviewing the past and current

relationship between the Agency and the HSCA and by requesting that the

attendees focus their discussion upon issues suggested in an agenda

which reflected predictions of the future course of the HSCA investigation.

Mr. Miller explained that this and follow-on discussions will allow all

interested offices to develop positions and ensure full coordination.. If any

major issues develop, they will be submitted to top management in sufficient

time for resolution rather than facing last minute ad hoc decisions. A copy

of the agenda is attached.

2. (S) Significant points of consensus were:

Providing CIA Documents

--- An Addendum to the Memorandum of Understanding is being drafted.

In essence, it provides a CIA security beachhead within HSCA

offices with a CIA-controlled safe containing sensitive sources

and methods information used in or resulting from interviews,

hearings, and depositions. (OLC Action)

---No documents will be sent to the HSCA for use in report drafting.

This position is consistent with the original Memorandum of

Understanding which called for the HSCA to draft their reports

which necessitate CIA documents - at CIA. Instead, sensitive

documents will be loaned to the Committee for use during

interviews, hearings, and depositions. The documents will repose

in the CIA-controlled safe at the HSCA. (OLC, OS Action)

18

964

SECRET

NW 65924 Docld:32368708 Page 2

---

## Page 3

SECRET

---Bernardo de Torres - Bill Sturbitts will review the tile for

documents which show the Agency relationship with de Torres.

The HSCA has asked to uselde Torres' PRG, PA to confront him.

He has denied any relationship with the Agency in a prior hearing.

À written statement of the actual [de Torres)relationship may

suffice. (DDO Action)

Documents Requested

---Security will resist the provision of actual polygraph charts on

Nosenko - offering instead to provide a technical expert to discuss

the actual data. The Polygraph Report has been made available

to the HSCA. (OLC, OS Action)

---Hart Study - The DCI has confirmed his decision that the Hart Study

is an internal document and will not be available for Committee

review. He recently agreed that John Hart would be available to

talk to the Committee about his report.

---Other studies on Nosenko - CI Staff is reviewing the 800 page DDO

study to remove foreign names prior to providing the study to the

HSCA. American names will remain in the report.

---Mexico City Surveillance.

Most photographs have already been

released under FOIA. The Mexico City evidence is a major area

of HSCA investigation, and it is likely that the draft tinal report

will discuss the surveillance operations.

The consensus was to

resist - even to the courts - any attempt to publicize those

operations.

Hearings

---The group discussed various alternatives for the executive session

hearing involving Nosenko which would provide maximum security.

The consensus ruled out the Hill, a safehouse or STC. It was agreed

that Headquarters Building would afford the best security. Bruce

Johnson was to explore the feasibility of setting up a suitable room

at Headquarters with video taping by OTR and would identify an OTR

representative to meet with me to discuss this in more detail.. We

also discussed masking Nosenko's voice and concealing him from the

camera. The resultant video tape would allow selected portions of the

terr hearing in soprercet,

hearing to be cleared by CIA for public use by the Committee during

their hearings in September. (OLC, OTR Action)

---Possible witnesses for public hearings in September 1978 were

discussed. At the minimum, a spokesman may be necessary to

state the Agency position on Nosenko's bona fides.

CIA Review of Committee's Final Report

---A Task Force, consisting of attendees, should meet as the need

2

SECRET

NW 65924 Docld:32368708 Page 3

---

## Page 4

SECRET

arises to coordinate the overall Agency position vis-a-vis the HSCA.

HSCA should be reminded of the need to present their final report

for review as early as possible. (OLC Action)

Final Disposition of Notes, Transcripts, and Other Committee Material

---We discussed various alternatives to provide the best control and'

protection of all Committee requested materials containing Agency

information when the Committee is terminated. Referral to the

House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence appears to be

the best solution, and OLC will consider this in discussions with the

Committee. (OLC Action)

Rodge.

RODGER S. GABRIELSON

Attachment:

As Stated

Distribution:

1 - Mr. Gregg, SA/DO/O

1 - Mr. Shepanek, O/SA/DO/O

1 - Mr. Breckinridge, DD/IG

1 - Mr. Leader, OIG

1 - Mr. Rininger, OGC

- Mr. Jones, OS

- Mr. Reardon, OS

Mr. donnson, DDA

Mr. Sednaoui, CI Staff

1 - Mr. Sturbitts, DDO/LA Division

1. - Mr. Strong, DCI/PA

1 - OLC Subject

1 - OLC Chron

OLC:RSG:jms (9 May 1978)

SECRET

NW 65924 Docld:32368708 Page 4

---

## Page 5

SECRET:

AGENDA

1. Providing CIA Documents

A. Addendum to Memorandum of Understanding

Security Arrangement

B. Scope

of documents furnished - initially only

for hearings.

Latest request for four volumes

of Mexico City Station files to prepare final

report.

C.

[Bernardo de Torres - Request POA to confront

him at hearing.

II. Documents Requested

A. Polygraph Charts of Nosenko

B. Hart Study (DCI says no-will offer Hart)

C. Photographs Mexico City Surveillance -

possible public release

III.

Hearings

A. Executive Session - Soviet defectors - Committee

will honor all security caveats

B. Public Hearings

1. Possible Witnesses:

Len McCoy

Bruce Solie

Anne Goodpasture

Dave Phillips

James

Angleton

Richard Helms

Ray Rocca

Admiral Turner (possible witness

re CIA position

on Nosenko bona-fides)

IV. CIA Review of Committee's Final Report

A. Establish CIA Task Force

B. What should be made public - sanitization procedures

C. . Establish procedures to resolve issues - CIA spokesman

PLODE

unic

NW 65924 Docld:32368708 Page 5

---

## Page 6

• SEGRET

V. Final Disposition of Notes, Transcripts, and other

Committee Material

A.. All notes returned to CIA or destroyed with

certification of destruction.

B.

Transcripts, depositions, and other permanent

records reviewed for sanitization.

Referred to

HPSCI for permanent retention and control.

Memorandum of Understanding Addendum.

SECRET

NW 65924 Docld:32368708 Page 6

---

