# DOCID-32413672

## Page 1

104-10181-10112

released under the John F. Kennedy

¿Assassination Flecords Collection Act of

11992144 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

65987 Diate: 10-29-2021

SECRET

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Noi I prod @ £13243

144.8.

Il Sepiember 1957

his inaced- all ;oo

peripheral.

Thru :

Depusy Chich, sirs

Chief

FIOB

Mf. D. SteveAs

The OSWALD Case

SHAir, Clay L. 1402897-A

According to a lashington Star clipping Cated 2 March 1967,

Clay L. SHAW, who was arrested, indicted and is awaitiag trial ia

connection with the charge that he conspired with Lee Harvey OSWALD

and David i. FLIPII to assassinate President KENNEDY, was described

by one Jesse CORE as a political liberal who was "very admiring" of

President KENVEDY. According to CORE, SYlA i "talked of voting for

KENNEDY in 1960' and wore a KENNEDY {o= President buiion, Jesse

CORE worked wich SHAW in 1963 at the International Trade Mart in

New Orleaaa.

Security indices reflect that one Jesse i. CORE, Chick Consal

with USIS in the Ameriçan Embaty la Madras, India, in 1950, was a

riend of David Gilmore BALDiNIN

F940S12 (c), a former ClA covert

"was separated from the Agency in Ociober 1952, following a

sarious security breach which involved a Nirs. Lillian BAXTER of

Calcutta. India who also was known to COä5. Mrs. BAXTER who was

believed to be an American with Indian citizenship, had formerly been

married to an Anglo-Indian planter in India and vas said to have become

a prostitute and in 1951 to have been kept by a wealthy Marwaril",she

was believed to be controlled by Indian Intclligence and it was thought

*at she might be an agent for any of severai revernmeuts including

She was an associate of David Cilmore BALDWIN

and was suspecied of stealing security documenta from bim.

There is lacuflicient information regurding Jesae CQ3E, Clay

ShA"'s associate, so povitively identily him as BALD: IN'pyriend,

Jesse R. CORE, but it seems quito probable that they are the same.

03 (BALD. IN is from New Orleans and it would appear that his friend CORE

19 1150, in as much as he secms la all probability to be the busband of

a "N'rs. Jesa CORI, nce: Lucy Rugeles, Wilo 23 of 1956 was said to bo

married to a man in the State Department anú to be somentere overseas,

and as of 1957 was said to reside in New Oricans, Louisianca. This

date.

-207

•90....

-g--

1 261-813443

_NW 65987 Docid:32413672 Page 1

---

## Page 2

104-10181-10112

SECHET

Mira. Jesse CORE was one of a cuspect political group, Dallas Counsy

VoiuriccIa for RAINZY, Which was of intcroni to the Securliy Olfive

in 1956-1957 because of the fact that curren: ClA employce, Michael

Charlea PEARSON, $62991, End his Lilend, Joha MaX ROSINIELD.

4210÷4, 'a formes OSS man, " lad beca members. The organizatios.

which sumbeied about 25 persons most of itom were said to bava buca

former studenis of the Universily of Iexas from which Homer I. MiLNEY.

a former liberal" presiders, had been discharged, was of a liberall

radical persuasion. One member of the gros? (in which idea. Jesse CORE.

then Lucy RUGGLES, le daughier of tillium RUGGLIS, an retorial

writes on the Dallas Morrin: Neva. was particularly activo) la said

to have mubsequently beca aricátco by the EDI for Commusias actlvilés

and several orbers have beca active in Communist organizations.

M. D. Stoveno

MDS:n1

{08-81349.3

_AW 65987 Docld:32413672 Page 2

---

