# DOCID-32414115

## Page 1

104-10182-10127

. .

55987 Date: 10:29.2021

• -т.

SEGRET

39.7

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

3 August 1959

MEYOFANDIY. FON THE. RECOED

SibUECI: Mitchell La bierbell (501-259910)

03.

1. At 1745 2u july 1959 & jong distánce call care in for r. Thona:

J. Flores iron Subject.

Mr. Elcres)was on leave and the miter took the

call fron Subject identifying herself by first name only.

3. Subject sald he had oltained inforation in Miant non perteseta

crowd that BATISTA would enter Viani from the Doninican Rejublie clan-

destinely that night or the folloring morning, an sculd be stopping at

the Biltmore Hotel®

He said that he santed this information given to

Ceneral Cabell and wanted to know shethe: or not the igency want-d hin

to attempt to obtain further infernation on the subject, which he said

ile belleved he cold do.

I told hin that he would be called later and he

left the following rumbers in Miari where hy could be reacheds

Filanklin 9-1675,

which he said tas the office fron which he was calling;

and HIghland 8-3h43 and HIghlard L-5273, apparently hones which he

experted to visit that evenirg.

3. I gave this inforation to Mr. Goncs, «C/'H, uho was stili in

and he instructed me to call Subject and tell hin de were

nterested in any further inforation he could obtain concernine

EATISId'e ertry into the United states; and to asi Subject to report

ny sich infomation to Mr. justin Gleichauf, 00 icntacts Representative

n liani, until "r. Mores retirned to dashiniton.

La de chout 2230 1 reached Sioject and told hir bis infonnation

had been passed un the line; that we were interested in any adaitional

infomation he could obtain and asked hin to get in touch ritti va.

Laring this conversation he said that a man named George

Cox has in liant at that time and in talkine to him Cox had implied

to Sibject that he was emplojet by cin.

ie asked for any information

xe micht have on fex, describin; hin as in his late fifties (50's);

hedry drinker; loud talker; ruzaire cround with hda Falk, BATISTA's former

I iold hin I nad never

hat seen Con firse in the Jonican emile where be (Cax) la trying to

arrange BiTIsth's illegal entry- into the inited States.

dl/III/40

!....

2:10254716

3/00

NW 65987 Docld:32414115 Page 1

---

