# DOCID-32414113

## Page 1

104-10182-10125

Released under the John F. Kennedy

assassination Records Collection act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note]. Case#:NW

65497 Date: 10.29-2021

r..

ile

BEN.

5 August 195% ETURN TO CIA

Background Use On!y

Do Not Reproduca

MEYCRANDUK FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECTS

YItchell Lo kerBell

(201-259910)

1.

Subject phoned ne on Sunday, 2 august, to ask 1S there mas any

news on file clearance. He sald that be Manted to fo to the Dominican"

republie in the next day or tro, and would like ClA to Dick up tils

senses. I told hin that thore was no nows, and that l had jus: fattoi

back, but that I would let his know on Monday, 3 August. ie asked se to

phose him at HIghland 8-8ll) 10 Klaris.

2.

Subject

said be bad phoned it office during iT absence and

talked vità "Margo", no resistent.

He said that Fobert Rodenberg, a former OSS nan, 18 worldng

kith Marael de Hoya. Rodenberg vas described as a resident of liash-

Jugton, lealthy, and not eagaged in any particular occupation.

fecord-

Inf to Subject, Rodenberg 1s engaged in the procuresent of arms for the

Domini.cana.

4o Subject said that George Cox, a tall fray-haired Individual

iron Washington,

Lo trying to pet Batista into the Unitod States lezally.

cox is a he›vy drinker ant claime to Me In the P-b11= Faintlino irisiscoo

In the United States. Subject said that he had asked sy assistant for

Infarsation on Cox.

5.

Subject sald that Batista 1s not foing to set out of the

• Dozinican Republic sinco be is vanted there by Trujillo and the Peciraza

group to provide soney for a possible revolt against lastro.

Subjoct sald that Silva (ini) 1s foing to the Loainican Fapublic.

Silva 1s abristant to Molasdo Masferrer.

According to Subject, redraza 13

ruying egulorent in Eurose In large quantities.

coe l'arola, who 15 hork-

y acgulred a Pil aIrcraft for use afairst th

Cleichauf, the OU wan in Misal.

red been put in touch with Cleichauf and suggesteci that se not maintal

he relationship sinco I sa son avallable.

p.e.

:00201. 25741.

NW 65987 Docld:32414113 Page 1

---

## Page 2

104-10182-10125

""?.

8a On 3 August I phosed Subject and told his that his cieranco had

not been granted as jet, that I had no way of inovdas when it would bo

greated, and that he should not prodicate his actirities on the aspocte-

tos of the cleirance at am inen else.

Subject asked who would par for the cailo to so, and I told him

16 vould bo alright to roverse the charzes either to to office or no

10. Subject euld that the Potraze group 10 air I1MUlng and diopping

macortal lato cuba.

Lo On d August, at my inquest, Tir Cobb asked CI/Ol to check witk

tha FbI to detomine 1f they haro a case on versell as had previously

12. I proposed to have leichhardt get all the derogatory infornation

on hertell he can, to forkard to Headquarters for revlen, and thereafter

to doteraine whether or not he should be confronted with this Information

prior to active operational lise of him. Although he has been evasive and

ooriously not completely frank with 's, It aprears that iorball doos have

access to information of interest on luban and Loinican ferolutionary

activeles -tand =e-ti vive insuro vovernent, and that he 15 well con-

nocted with the underworld elesents operating in tha Miant srea.

(COMMEXIS Into request sas given to Reichhardt by phons on 5 August.)

03

j. Morea/

03

140

NW 65987 Docld:32414113 Page 2

---

