# DOCID-32334222

## Page 1

Released under the John F

Kennedy Assassination

Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

Case#:N'/ 66000 Date:

11-09.2021

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

THE CARE ORLAMATTO AT BURBAN

NI Miero 121-2457 ndiKD

TITUE

DATE MAIN MADE

NEW YORK

6/16/48

2536/57321,

14748

JACOB HATEAN.

NASSARKER,

aka lack, Jake,

Chief counsel, Bureau of Land Henagenent

V. S. Departzent of the Interior

Fishington, D.C.

DONT MADE DY

ALBERT J. KLEIN

HUTTER OP. CAST

LOIALTY OF COVERIMENT EMPICYLES

SYNOPSIS OTFAGT

regulat

Eaployee born 1/19/13 at NTC, his parents having been -

born in Russia, Graduatod City College of New York

1934 With B.S, and Colunbia lew School, 1933 with ILB.

Education pertafactory as to loyalty.

esployrent,

asociates, Inoluding a number ai prominent attorneys,

all reconsend exployes as to loyalty, Neigaborsood

reflects nothing derogatory as to loyalty. Loyalty

fora reflecte ambership in Aberlean Jewish Congresa

which 1s conintst donnated, iccording to New Tork

incorant.

NIC orodit, erindnel and informant negative

as to employee.

135,

REFERUNCES

-RUC-

Bureru lattor to tanhington Finia, 5/15/48.

It 18 to ba sokod that the name of JAKS 1a being Me

added to she title of thie report, union mano

mas rafzacted on the birth certificate of the

7326

хотав сік1

121

3 D8bl 11

EBI

T<0307+ 1

BARROT 1? 1349

2 = He York

62 NOV 101948

faf-

MERED 45

62)G

noti

124-90113-10014-1

NW 66000

Docld:32334222 Page 1

---

## Page 2

1Q 1967

4014

ANS

19

'Tie 19"

: 31

. -1..

.

4'.

REVERSE

SIDE

0 F

PREVIOUS

SIDE

LEI

NW 66000

Docld:32334222 Page 2

way

124-90113-10014-2

---

## Page 3

NY 121-2657

Fita denian Connist assaricios, hes adrisod it he considoro to anariden

nenbarahip in us anorionn sarian congrass o! the tarlah proples fraternal

order of te intomalional tortora irdar and the Amrican Jam'sh labor (vocil,

soch ó nich organisationa this intora described as bolid coreunist con

150110°

It la folatod out that the Incarnacional forkere Order is an of-

genizatlos llasos by die Attorany lenorel es ooudog wittin the purvien it

Ezecutire ondor 19833. ma exployee nes sot rsona to this informant.

STEALI ARE CILSiDAL

so repords of tha Cradle Baras of trate, Man Innk and of to

Mon lark fil loa Depertedne sero bot obnoked not they falled to sloos e

TODOrd fOr 110 MAplOyDA VAder the DaMA Of JACID 'AMIAN FASSERLAN OF JACK

HA ISTRUAN OT INKE PASSARLAN.

124-90113-10014-3

NWV 66000

Docld:32334222 Page 3

---

## Page 4

NY 127-2457

JACOB NATHAN WASSERCLAN, aXa

"Jack" Jake WAGERMA

Chief Coungel

Bureau of Land Management

U. So Depariment of the Interior

Washington, D. C.

LOYALTY OF GOVERN DiPLOYEES

‚Tune 16, 1948

New Tarke New Yark

RESULTS DE INVESTIGATION

Birth

The records of the Department of Health, New York City, reflect

the employee'g birth at New York City on January 19, 1910 under the naze of

JAKE HASSERMAN.

According to Birth Certificate $4786, his parenta, ABRAHAM

and DORA ZIDIANASSERMAN, were both born in fussia.

Records of Appellate Division,

Supreme Court of the Stato of, New York

The records of the Appellate Division of the Supreme Court of the

State of New York, First Judictal Department,

25th Street and ladison Avenue,

New York City, as furnished by Assistant Clerk THOlAS RIOPDAN, reflected the

employee was admitted to the lew York Stato Bar on April 16, 1934 inder the

name of JACOB NATHAN MASSERMAN, Thesa records further dioclosed he mas bors

on January 14, 1910 in New York Olty, and ld8 parents, ABRAHAl and DORA

MASSERMAN, were both born in Poland. We address was listed as 350 Fest 55th

Strest, Hew York Clty, and It was Imicated that he had resided thare Iron

Septonber, 1933 until the data of his application, March 15, 1934 In addition,

thece records reflocted ha had graduatod in February, 1934 Dron the City College

of New Tort with a Bashalor of Science degree and fron the Columbla Law School

In June, 1933 with a Bachelor of Lar degroo.

His employmeat us Indicatod to have boon as tollona,

July, 1923 to Pebruary, 1925

New York Law Institute,

Now York City;

liberarian

I&1 7928

124-90113-10014

NW 66000

Docld:32334222 Page 4

---

## Page 5

NY 141-4417

March, 192? to November, 1929

Septemoer, 1932 to Tune, 1933

July, 1933 to Februar:, 1934

Audubon Theater of the Fax

Theaters Corporation, New

York City;

Chief Usher

John Jay Dining Hall,

New York City;

Ipist and Writer

Professor RICHARD R. POMELL,

Columbia University Law School,

New York City;

Researcher

February, 1934 to date of applica-

tion (Narch 15, 1934)

Greenbaun, Wolff & Ernst,

285 Madison Avenue, New York City;

Lan Clerk

It was noted in the records of the Aupellate Division of the Supreme

Court of the Stato of New York that the employed answered "yes" ili response to

the following questions:

*Do you believe in the principles underlying the form

of Goverrment of the Unitod States?" and "Can yuu conscientiously and do jou

affirm that you are, mithout any mental reservation, loyal to the Goverrment of

the United States?".

There ses nothing further in this file which mould bear

on the question of loyalty.

Education

AGNES I. CONDON, Rogletrer of the evening school, City College of New

York, 139th Street and Content Arerie, Nen York City, advised that the records

disclosed the employee had entored that college in Septarber, 1926 and had con-

tinuod there unt1l Juse, 1930.

In Soptenber, 1935 he reentered the college and

mas graduated in Febrnary, 1934, with a Bachalor at sclance degres.

There nas

nothing in the rocord which would boar on the question of loyalty.

LISONARD GOOLSTEIN, Assistant to the Dean of Student Actititios at the

City Colloge of Her lost, checked has records and adrised there was nothing

contained theroin which told beer on the question of loyalty.

2

9

124-90113-10014-5

NW 66000

Docld:32334222 Page 5

---

## Page 6

NY 141-2197

NIS, CAROLINE LIURTil, Assistart to the Dean, Col mbia

"Tiversity

Law School, ll6th Street and Broadway, len York City, advised her records re-

flect the employee was adnitted to that school in September, 1930 and in June,

1933 was graduated with & Bachelor of Law Degree. According

to irs. DILHORTH,

his record was clear and there was nothing contained in the file pertinent to

the question of loyalty.

JAYES Y. GIFFORD, Assistant to the Dear of the Columbia Law drool,

stated he recalled the employee as having been an excellent la student anu an

editor for the "Colunt 's Lan Revlewl during the period of his attendance at the

Columbia Law School, GIFFORD stated that the position of editor with the

"Columbia Law Revier" was one held only by outstanding studerts.

GIFFORD said

that he had had no recent contact with the enployee.

However, bäsed on his

association with hin during the employee's attendance at the school, he would

confider nin to be loyal to this country.

PrOfeSSOr PAlL R. HAYS of the Colmuin law School, stated he recalled

the enployee as having been an utstanding student and one whom he cotsidered

to be thoroughly loyal to the United States.

BRITNO SCHACHNER, Asgistart United States Attorney for the Southern

District of New York, Untted States Court House, Foley Square, New York City,

advised that he had been & fallon student with the employee at the Columbia

Law School from 1930 to 1933 and had also known him in connection with their

mutual association with the "Columbia law Rorlen* as editors.

He stated thit

he did not got to know the employes socially dur ung their attendance at Columbla

Law School; hoover, he falt that he had known the enployee weil enough to

state that had there boen anything indicatire of disloyalty on his part, he

mould have socalled the sane at this tine.. It sas his belief that the employee

nas loyal.

LOUIS HAIMOFF, an attarzoy with the lan fira of faguertogel i

Sylvester, 70 pino stront, How York City, statod that ho had attended the

Columbin Law, School with the aployee and had also boen asgociated with th

*Coluabla Las Retion at tha suma time so tas the employee.

'Ho described

HASSERNAN as haTing booD a brilltant student and one noo socced to be very

nature in his sitione and thanking. sr. HATlOr? sorised that he had bad no

rocent contacts with tha employoo;

hosperer, during the time ha knes hia at the

Columbia Lar Sohool, tho employee aimaya conductod himself in a nanner which

would indicate ha sas a loyal anaricas.

3

124-90113-10014-6

NW 66000

Docld:32334222 Page 6

---

## Page 7

NY 122-2457

Exployment

GEOPGE P. SEBACH, Librarian, New York Lax Institute, 120 Broadway,

New York City, advised trit he recalled the enployee as having been employed

by the New York Lan Institute as a page boy for appraximately two years some

twenty years or more ago. SENPACH stated that the records covering

the actual

employment mere no longer vallable; however, it was his recollection that the

employee had left the New york lan institute of his own volition and that, the

position had been taken by his brother, SAlVEL B. WASSERKAN, who is now a

practicing attorney at lli Broadway, New Jork City. MI. SFEBACH advised that

he has had very little contact with the employee since the termination of his

employment with the New York lax Institute.

Based u, his association with

WASSEPMAN, homever, Mr. SBEBACH would consider him to be loyal..

in addition,

he Brated

that he has always been favorably impressed by the employee's brother,

SAMUEL B. NASSERKAN, whom bo also considers to be loyal to the United States.

PAUL, BEHRKE, 265 Riverside Drive, New York City, advised that o had

been the former. Comptroller of the Fox Theater vorporation, 1560 Broadha:,

New

York city, which corporation had operated the dudulon Theater. Hr. BEHAKE

stated that the fox Theater Corporation had gone intu bankruptey some fifteen

years ago and that, therefore, the employnent records were no longer availahle.

He could not recall the e ployee. It is to ve noted that according to the

recorda of tbe Appellate Division of the Supreme Col't for the State of New York,

HASSIR 'AN was employed as Chief Usher at the Audubon Theater from March, 1927

to November, 1929.

PrOTOGGOT RICHARD R. PONTIL, Columbia Law School, ll6th Street and

Broadway,

New York City, advdsed that the employee had veen a student in a

number of his lan classes at the Columbia Law School during his attendance there

and that he had also been employed by hin fros July, 1933 to February, 1934 as

a Research desistant, Re loscribed MASSERMAN as being an individual of excellent

character and ons possessed of a keen analytical mind. Frofessos ponsul, stated

that he had bed no contacta with the eaployee since the termination of his

employet with hin, but he considered har to be thoroughly loyal to the Unitod

Statsa.

MES. MARIAN HUGENT, Clerk, John Jay Dining Ball, Columbia University,

Hoth Street and Broadway, lion Tork C11J, adtiaod thet she had no racord of

tha ezploynent of HASSIRMAN an a walter and typist troa September, 1932 to juso,

She adrieed that the records corering that perlod of time were no longer

availablo.

MORRIS I. ERNST, an attorney with the lan fire of Orrenbaur, Holff

121 88÷9

124-90113-10014-7

NW 66000

Docld:32334222 Page 7

---

## Page 8

NY 121-2457

& Ernst, 285 Madison Avenue, New York City, advised that WASSER AN had been

employed as a law clerk for approximately four or five norths in 1934.

explained that at that time his law firm represented the New York State

Superintenderit of Insurarce in connectio.

with fortgage ileorganizations and

that in connection therenith,

he had applied to Profess:. RICHARD POWPLL of

the Columbia Law School for a bright young student.

Professy POlElL had

referred the employee to him and during his employmeni with Greenbaun, Wolff

1. Ernst, HASSERMAN had done a very fine job. N. TANST described the engloyee

as having a fine character and as being a very conscienti us and diligent

warker.

He stated that he believed the employee to be loyal t', this counsry.

MiSS PALLA GROSS, Secretary to MRIS Lo ERNST, stated that she re-

the employee as having beer employed at Greenhaum, Wolff, Ernst for a

few withs sore fifteen years ago and that to the best of her knowledge he

was loyal t

the United States.

HAFOLD P. SELIUSON of the lar firm of Marshall, Bratter & Seligsor,

150 Broadway, New York City, advised that WASSERIAN had been employed as a

Law clerk from August 1, 1934 until April 9, 1938 when he resigned.

ME. SELIGEON:

dascribed NASSERIAN as a very capable attorney and one whom he considered to be

loyal to thn United States.

According to ir. SPLIGSON, the employe's address

tas listed in the records as having been 808 Adee Avenue, Bronx: New Iork.

UT. JAVES MARSHiLL of the lan firm of Marshall, Bratter & Seil§son,

advised that he recalled that the employee came to that lam firm fron Greenbaun,

wolff & Ernst and in his opinion, WASSERMAN was an above average young lawyer.

Ur. MARSHALL corsidered Idin to be a lojal Anartean.

HERBERT NICHSLER, Prefosaos of Lau at the Columbia Law School, advised

that ho knew the employee very rall, he having not HASSuRiAN in connection with

thalt both assistlog senator LOBERI F. WAGNER of NeY JOCk. HT. HECHSLER advised

that he had faraorly been Lagal Counsel for Senator WAGNER in 1938 for appronate-

ly six montha at the lew lork State Constitutional Convertion in Albany, New York

and that during that time the employoo had assisted hin, uscistsi, in connection

with blo artsosal dutton fer sanstor HAONER. It taa his opialon that the employee

was a loyal dussiast.

Residenses

350 Most 55th Strost, Mew York CItI

Kr9, EDITH GRARAY, Receptleslot, Bing & Bing Corporation, 119 test

40th Street, Now York City, statod that Bing & Bing vere the real satato agente

5

1121

17.20

124-90113-10014-8

NW 66000

Docld:32334222 Page 8

---

## Page 9

NY 121-2457

for the apartwent house located at 350 Hest J5th Street, New York City. las.

GRAHAl also advised that the records disclosed that JACOB HASSER'AN nad beer.

a restuent at that address from Septenber, 1933 until July, 1934.

ELGAR DUNKLEY, elevator operator at 350 Hest 55th Street; advised

that he recalled HASSEPAN having been a tenant at this address sone ten or

11fteen

yoars ago.

It mas his recollection that WASSER AN pas

a very quiet

and reserved individual and one who kept to himself nost of the time. It was

his belief that at that time HASSERMAN was attending college.

He stated tha

during the residence of WASSFRMA! at this address nothing came to his attention

ntict would bear on the question of loyalty.

Mr3. JACY JORDAN and MEB, JOSEPH P. COLALAN, both tenante o 350

Kest 15th Street, Hew York Olty, for over fifteen years, were contacted but

they could not recall the e ployee.

808 Adee Avenue, Bronx, New York

PERETZ HURWITZ, 808 Adee Avenue, Bronx, New York, advised that he bad

been a resident at this address since 1927 and recalled the WASSErIAN family

having resided there for some three or four years.

He stated that they moves

in about 1938. IG. HURITZ statod he had had only a casual acquaintence with

the WASSERNAN fanily and it was his recollection that the employee was residing

there with his parents.

He stated the WASSER SAN family had a good reputation

and as far as he luew thay tere loyal to thas country.

HIS. ANNA PERLITER, another tenant at this addrose, adviced she

vaguely recalled the employee hariag lived at this address some ter or fifteen

years ago, but she could not farrish any infaration concerning his which would

bear on the question of loyaltyo

The rolloming roastate, ol 808 biee Avero, Bronx, Neu Tork, all of

than bave resided thare for fifteen years of nore, pere also contacted, but they

could not rosell the BASSINAN fendiys IS. REGINA HUBERNAl, and lie. BeSSIE

3558 Creston Avenua, Bronx, How York

6

7928

124-90113-10014-9

NW 66000

Docld:32334222 Page 9

---

## Page 10

NY 121-2457

corporation ous to

apartment house located at 2558 Creston Avenue, Bronx,

Nou York.

Mr, EIS NSTEIN stated that the records reflected that HASSERMAN

had resided at that address from September, 1937 until October, 1939. ir.

EISENSTIN stated there was nothing in the record mich would bear on the

question of loyalty and h- also advised he could not rocall the employee.

B. F. CRANZ, who occupied the adjoinine spartment to the one

occupied by the employee during his residence at this address, advised he ha1

boon a resident thors for the past twenty joars bui he could not recall the

omployee.

In addition, the following residents it this address were contacted,

none of whon could recall the cuployees.

NTS. S. GIBELAN, MiSS IRENE I. HOKENNA,

and SOL NATHANSON.

daquaintances

SAMURF. BENDüR, Dentiat, 2119 Hebout Avenue, Bronx, Now York,

adrised that ho had beon & friend of the employee for approximatoly the past

tienty jears, his sister being narried to the employed's brother, SAMUEL

WASSERMAN, DE. BENDER stated tirat up until the time that the employes nored

to mashington, D. C. they had been very close friends and hed had numerous

social contaato,

He stated that since the employeers departure fron New York

City, their soqualatence her been nore casual, but they continued to occasionally

visit one another. Dr. BINDiR thus folt that he had had an intimite enough

contact with the employee during the past twonty yours to lora a definito

opinion on the question of his loyalty, and ho statod that that optnion as that

HASSERMAN mas undoubtodly a loyal Amerloan.

XES. SAMUEL F. BINDER, WIIO Of DO, BENDER, adrivod that sho too bad

known the employed for approsamatoly tianty yours and that she could not speak

too highly of him, see conaidered both the employae and his vile to be peoplo

of high intogrity and in regard to the loyalty of the employee, ura. BENDi

statod, "tharo sus not a partiole of doubts.

or rani zation

It 1a 80 bo notod that the Roquest for Report on Loyalty Data form

executod by tha employon on sapterber 15, 1967, reta ots be 18 Bifillated with

the dascious Jamiah Congrass.

In rogard toerato, It is pointed out that

confidential Intornan: New Iork City fol, e reliablo informant voo lo asquatato

070°

124-90113-10014-10

NW 66000

Docld:32334222. Page 10

---

## Page 11

NY 121-2457

with Jewish Communist activities, has advisod that he considors tre amerioan

Jerrish Congresa at the present tine to be Commnist infiltrated because of

nembership in the Arerican Jewish Congress of the Jowish Peoples Fraterna.

order of the International forkers Order and the Marican Jewish Labor Council,

both of mich organizations this informant desertbed as boing Communist con-

trolled. It is pointed out that the International Horkora Order is an or-

zanization listed by the attorney General as coming "ithis the purvion of

Executite Order $9835•

The employee was not know this informant.

Crodit and Crinina

The records of the Credit Bureau of Greator New Tork and of thi

New York Police Department were both checked and they falled to reflect e

resord for the employee under the name of JACOE NATHAN MASSERMAN OF JACK

HASSERMAN OF JAKE HASSERMAN

8

124-90113-10014-11

NW 66000

Docld:32334222 Page 11

---

## Page 12

NY 121-2457

CONFIDENTIAL INPORMANT

The confidential informant mentioned in the report of sA ALBERT J..

KLEIN, dated June 16, 1948 at New ork, 18 identifted as follow:

New York City Tol

Porner New York Confidential

Informant ND 372.

14:1

124-90113-10014-12

NW 66000

Docld:32334222 Paqe 12

---

## Page 13

NY 141-2457

AD''INISTRATIVE DATA

The birtli check was made by S.F.. RICHARD F. O'HARA.

Colunbia Lan School check was made by SA JOin DORMFR:

New York City Police Department check mas made by SA Al'G'IST I.

Credit chack ms made by sE Raul l. MotiDy.

Contact of New York City T-l mas made by SA JAFS :. ICCEPTHY.

The following investigation was conducted by JA GEORGE H.

VALENTINE:

City College of Ner York check.

Aprellate Division check.

New York Law Instituto employment chack. i

A teletype was sent. to the Bureau and Washington Field Office on

June 1, 1948 advising that the Birth Records reflect employee'a name as jAke

WASSARMAN

teletype was sent to the bureau on june 3, 1948 requesting authority

to intervier !10RRIS L. MPNSI.

1 Bureau telotype mas received on June 5, 1948 authorizing the Inter-

Vion of MORRIS L. ERNST.

A teletype was sert tn the Bureau and Washington Field Office advising

that WASSERMAN was employed from October to November, 1938 by the Independent

Citinona Committee for Reelection of Senator of ROBERT F. MAGNER. The bashington

Field Office was requested to verify the sane through lisa MINA RUPERT, Secretery

to senator MAGNER.

The Bureau was adled that New Jork did not contemplate interviewine

Senator. WAGNER because of his illnoss.

181

7

249

10

124-90113-10014-13

NW 66000

Docld:32334222 Page 13

---

## Page 14

UNITED STATES DEPARTIENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

CONFIDENTIAL

Title:

JACOB NATHAN NASSERMAN

also known as "Jack", Jake Yasserman

Chief Counsal

Bureau of Land Management

U. S. Department of the Interior

Hashington, D. C.

LOYALTY OF OOVERNHENT ENPLOTBOS

sployses restor and 290511 pit in fu, real door

lor dissemination purposes

U disaritados

=59274, 600t:: 8:

soport 0f: Speodal Agent Albert j. Moin

Dato and Piece: Juna 16, 1948, Her Tort, How Jors

121

732

PROPBETY OF FBI

This confidential roport and 140

contents aro loaned to you by tho

FBI and aro not to be distributod

ourside of agoncy to mich loaned

124-90113-10014-14

NW 66000

Docld:32334222

Page 14

---

