# DOCID-32336088

## Page 1

Heleased under the John F. Kennedy

sassination Hecords Lollection act i

992 /44 USC 2107 Notel. Cace#:N:

64579 Date: 11-24-2021

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

6/15/201

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-90131-10056

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : CR SEE TITLE

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

MM

TO :

HQ

TITLE : [Restricted]

DATE:

10/09/1961

PAGES:

11

SUBJECTS :

[Restricted]

REINALDO PICO

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS:

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

4

Redact

09/23/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

MEMO

v9.1

NW 64578 Docld:32336088 Page 1

---

## Page 2

UNITED STATES GO* RNMENT

Memóranuum

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI

(134-8787)

DATE: 10/9/61

_SAC, MIAMI (134-518)

WILFREDO ANTONIO CECILIO

ROBAINA GUTIERREZ

PSI (Former HAV-36) - CUBA

Re Miami letter to Bureay, dated 6/13/61, and

Bureau approval of same date, 6/28/61.

Copy to 12

by routing slip for

info.

i action

I. - RECOMMENDATION

- date...

10-18-

6

-by...

I recommend authority be granted-to continue payla

ments to above informant up to $38. per wegk for services,

plus up to $2.50 per week for expenses actually incurred

for a period of four months, effective November 1, 1961:

II. - RESIDENCE AND EMPLOYMENT

ian:

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

Residence continues to be located

at 2535 West

• Flagler Street, second floor, Miami, Florida. PSI con-

• tinues to be employed as an independent salesman of

kitchen appliances for domestic and hotel service and

since September, 1961, has added to his line of merchandise

janitorialsupplies.

III. - CURRENT MEMBERSHIP IN SUBVERSIVE ORGANIZATIONS

PSI is not a member of any subversive or pro-

FIDEL CASTRO, Prime Minister of Cuba, groups in the U.S.A.

however, he zengine in contact with activities of the 26kh l

of July Club, Miami, Florida, through contacts which he

has developed in that organization.

que note page 11i

- Bureau

(RAS

- Miami

MAILED 8

WGF: ush

(4)

OCT 171961

COMM-FBI

REG• 45

?!19

Ex-112

134-8187-9

OCT 12 1961

APPROVED

62 0CT 26

300/18/61

les made

19

NW 64578 1odldi32336088Page 2

R420-

1,0

---

## Page 3

MM 134-518

PSI continues to attend meetings of anti-FIDEL

CASTRO groups in the Miami area and public meetings of

PrO-FIDEL CASTRO elements. PSI is a member of Circulo

Cubano, Miami, Florida, which is an organization composed

of Cubans residing in Miami, Florida.

Some of the members

of this organization are pro-CASTRO while others are anti-

CASTRO.

Facilities of this club are available to both

pro- and anti-FIDEL CASTRO groups for meetings, and inasmuch

as subject is a member of this organization, it is possible

for him to frequent these meetings without arousing suspicion.

IV. - SUMMARY OF INFORMATION FURNISHED

During the last four months, PSI has furnished

information on the following-listed cases:

ALDO INOCENCIO PELEGRINO DE LOS

MILAGROS VERA SERAFIN.

IS - CUBA;

RA - CUBA

(Miami file 105-4136)

PSI furnished information to the effect that

VERA, formerly a follower of FIDEL CASTRO and Chief of

Police for a period of about one week in Havana, Cuba,

in January, 1959, is now residing in exile in USA and is

an ardent anti-CASTRO leader.

PSI also stated that VERA is associated with

underground-sabotage group activity in Cuba

I at the pre-

sent time.

- 2 =

NW 64578 Docld:32336088 Page 3

---

## Page 4

MM 134-518

CUBAN FUNDS

IS - CUBA

(Miami file 105-1817)

PSI in this case furnished information that among

Cuban exiles in Miami the rumor circulated that an un-

identified pro-FULGENCIO BATISTA group, former Dictator

of Cuba in Miami, recently sponsored printing of a large

number of Cuban August 9, 1961, issued of $1., $15., and $10.

peso denomination bills for distribution in Cuba. PSI

furnished samples of these bills to the Miami Office,

which have been made available to the U.S. Secret Service,

Miami.

ALICIA VICTORIA SUAREZ PEREZ

IS - CUBA;

RA - CUBA

(Miami file 105-4169)

PSI in this case has furnished background data

concerning SUAREZ on a continuing basis and has advised

that on September 8, 1961, Dr. JOSE MUSA, brother-in-law

of subject SUAREZ, is attorney for Cuban

Department of

Justice, Havana, Cuba, and is co-ordinator for Cuban G-2

activities in that Department. Dr. MUSA at the present

time is attempting to arrange passage from Cuba through

underground in Cuba.

HAYDEE SANTA MARIA

IS - CUBA;

RA - CUBA

(Miami file 97-244)

PSI advised in connection with an anonymous

letter received by the Miami Office that HAYDEE SANTA

MARIA, the wife of ARMANDO HART, presently Minister of

Education, Havana, Cuba, is residing in Miami presently

is false.

- 3 -

NW 64578 Docld:32336088 Page 4

---

## Page 5

MM 134-518

PSI advised that SANTA MARIA for a period of

time was in charge of the 26th of July Club funds in the

Miami area and left Miami for Cuba on January 3, 1959, and

has not returned to Miami.

JNSUB, THREAT TO SABOTAGE PAN AMERICAN WORLD

AIRWAYS, MIAMI, FLORIDA,

5/25/61

DAMV - (FALSE REPORT)

(Miami file 149-145)

PSI in this case furnished information indicating

that in the area of the International Airport, Miami,

Florida, there appeared leaflets in the English and the

Spanish

languages inciting employees of Pan American Air-

ways to institute a general strike unless their "Comrade,"

LUCILA RODRIGUEZ, (Miami file 105-2794) who was discharged

by Pan American World Airways, was rehired.

Mrs. MIRIAM FRANCES NUFER NORWEB

ESP

- CUBA; TGP; FAG

(Miami file 65-2860)

In instant case PSI during appropriate hours

of each day conducts spot physical surveillances on

residence of subject for the purpose of determining her

contacts and her activities. Through these spot surveil-

lances, it has been possible for the Miami Office to

or the tent detes i-

determine the whereabouts of the subject and determine

her plans as far as selecting new residences are con-

cerned.

ANTI-COMMUNIST LEGIONAIRES

NEUTRALITY ACT

(Miami file 2-312)

PSI in this case furnished information concern-

ing a distribution of leaflets by the Anti-Communist

Legionaires in the Miami area, which leaflets criticized

' USA's participation or support of the Tractors for Freedom

- 4 -

NW 64578 Docld:32336088 Page 5

---

## Page 6

MM 134-518

prisoner exchange, sponsored by the Tractors for Freedom

Committee, Detroit, Michigan.

MILITARY AND NAVAL MATTERS

(Miami file 105-2878)

PSI in this case furnished information re the

location of militia training camps and anti-aircraft

guns in certain areas in the Interior of Cuba.

FOREIGN POLITICAL MATTER - CUBA

IS - CUBA

(Miami file 105-1747)

PSI in this case furnished information re the

names of the organizations actively engaged in counter-

revolutionary movements within Cuba. PSI obtained this

information through friends and relatives in Cuba, who

are active in the Cuban underground.

UNIDAD PARA LA GUERRA

(UNITY FOR WAR)

RA - CUBA;

IS - CUBA

(Miami file 105-new)

-

PSI was present at the organizational meeting of

Unidad Para La Guerra on October 2, 1961. PSI stated that,

according to the leader of this organization, the purpose

is to bring about unity among Cuban exiles in the U.S. and

to invite those Cubans who still are Cuban citizens to

return to Cuba and help overthrow the regime of FlDeL

CASTRO by either military or underground means.

- 5 -

NW 64578 Docld:32336088 Page 6

---

## Page 7

MM 134-518

PAUL ODEZ, aka

IMPERSONATION

(Miami file 47-4348)

PSI in this case has furnished information con-

cerning the activities of the subject while the subject

was in Miami, Florida, beginning March, 1961.

JOSE M. GONZALEZ

RA - CUBA;

IS - CUBA

(Miami file 105-4241)

PSI in this case furnished specific information

identifying JOSE GONZALEZ, his residence and business

address and background information concerning his activi-

ties.

FERNANDO VIRELLES

IS - CUBA;

RA - CUBA

(Miami file 105-3963)

PSI in this case has furnihed specific informa-

tion regarding the activities of VIRELLES, as a leader

of an anti-FULGENCIO BATISTA, former Dictator of Cuba,

group in 1956 which group was sponsored by the former

President of Cuba, CARLOS PRIO SOCARRAS.

JUAN RODRIGUEZ SARMIENTO

IS - CUBA;

RA - CUBA

(Miami file 105-2961)

PSI in this case has maintained frequent con-

tact with subject and has arranged for a number of Cubans

to contact RODRIGUEZ for the purpose of possibly purchasing

the home of RoDRIGUEZ, which, at this time, is being offered

for sale.

-6 -

NW 64578 Docld:32336088 Page 7

---

## Page 8

MM 134-518

The Cubans brought to the home of RODRIGUEZ

are genuine prospects for the purchase of this home;

however, a successful sale has not yet been consumatec

due to the high price asked by RODRIGUEZ and the general

adverse economic conditions existing in Miami at this

time.

ESTEBAN GRAFTON HORTA

IS - CUBA;

RA - CUBA

(Miami file 105-4651)

PSI in this case has furnished information to

the effect that GRAFTON has been in contact with MIRIAM

FRANCES NORWEB, Miami file 65-2860. PSI also furnished

background information concerning GRAFTON.

V. AMOUNT PAID FOR SERVICES AND EXPENSES BY

MONTH

Date

6/7-14/61

6/14-21/61

6/21-28/61

Services

$35.

$35.

$25.

Expenses

---

---

---

6/1-28/61

---

$10.

6/28-7/5/61

$38.

7/5-12/61

$38.

7/12-19/61

$38.

-=-

-7-

NW 64578 Docld:32336088 Page 8

---

## Page 9

MM 134-518

Date

7/19-26/61

7/1-26/61

7/26-8/2/61)

8/2-9/61

8/9-16/61

8/16-23/61

8/23-8/30/61

8/1-8/31/61

8/30-9/6/61

9/6-13/61

9/13-20/61

9/20-27/61

9/1-27/61

Services

$38.

---

Expenses

_--

$10.

$76.

$38.

$38.

$38.

•.-

$38.

$38.

$38.

$38.

---

---

---

$10.

---

---

...

---

$10.

VI. - TYPE AND NUMBER OF MEETINGS

PSI continues his contacts with members of the

26th of July Club, Miami, Florida; continues to attend

meetings of both pro- and anti-FIDEL CASTRO groups,: where

he can logically gain entries, in the Miami area and cir-

culates freely at the Circulo Cubano, Miami, Florida, which

-8 -

NW 64578_ Docld:32336088. Page 9.

---

## Page 10

MM 134-518

which has the reputation of being a hangout for pro-FIDEL

CASTRO elements in Miami.

VII. - NUMBER OF WRITTEN AND ORAL STATEMENTS

SUBMITTED

During instant period, PSI has been contacted

with frequency and he has furnished in excess of 55 oral

reports and about 30 written reports. PSI has also fur-

FIDEL CASTRO-tYpe, which yee cancelated en the lame

area.

VIII. - INFORMATION FURNISHED OF UNUSUAL VALUE.

PSI, inasmuch as he is a salesman, having

belonged to the National Police of Cuba on October 1,

1961, was invited personally by REINALDe PICO, former

labor leader in Regar.

Cuba, and member;

of Cuban Tractors

Exchange Commission, to attend the organizational. meet-

ing of unidad Para La Guerra Unity for War), which took

place/at Odd Fellows Building, 215 Northwest

4th Street,

Miami, Elorida, on October 2, 1961, and was presided

over by PICO.

PSI served as a consultant for PICO

during this organizational meeting, it was possible for

him to determine that the Unidad Para La Guerra is really

an organization which possesses all the aspects of a

junta for the governing of Cuba once the FIDEL CASTRO

-9 -

NW 64578 Docld:32336088 Page 10

---

## Page 11

MM 134-518

IX. - APPROXIMATE NUMBER OF PERSONS ON WHOM

INFORMANT FURNISHED COVERAGE AND THEIR

IMPORTANCE

This informant has furnished information on

approximately 50 individuals, some of whom are subjects,

and has furnished identifying and background data concern-

ing these individuals.

X. - STEPS BEING TAKEN TO ADVANCE INFORMANT.

PSI recently has been invited by leaders of

Unidad Para La Guerra (Unity for War) to attend an

organizational meeting and serve as a consultant. This

is an anti-CASTRO organization and since PSI has played

a role in its organization, he will have an opportunity

to further broaden his contacts among Cuban exiles in

Miami, Florida.

XI. - STABILITY AND RELIABILITY

This informant continues to be contacted by

Agents of the Miami Office with frequency and at no time

has he presented any indication of untrustworthiness,

unreliability or any other weakenesses which might become

a source of embarrassment to the Bureau.

XII. - INDOCTRINATION AGAINST DISCLOSURE

Every opportunity has been taken to indoctrinate

PSI against making any disclosure of his relationship with

the Bureau through any media.

XIII. - ALL NECESSARY ACTION TAKEN ON INFORMATION

FURNISHED

Yes.

- 10 -

NW 64578 Docld:32336088 Page 11

---

## Page 12

MM 134-518

XIV. - MISCELLANEOUS

This informant is continuing to attend English

classes at Jackson Senior High School, Miami, Florida,

and is progressing satisfactorily.

Note: PSI who is former HAV 36 has furnished more

than 55 oral reports and about 30 written reports.

Miami has

cited 15 specific cases in which PSI has provided data. PSI

expenses.

approved.

11*

-

NW 64576 Docld:32336066 Page 12

---

