# DOCID-32271494

## Page 1

v09-16-96ccr

JFK RECORDS

Cross Reference: None

Status in System:

AGENCY : HSCA

RECORD NUMBER : 180-10142-10190

RECORD SERIES : CIA SEGREGATED COLLECTION

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 23-22-02

Other Agency Equity: None

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : HSCA

FROM : CIA

TO

TITLE

DATE

: 00/00/00

PAGES

37

DOCUMENT TYPE

REPORT

SUBJECT(S) : ; OSWALD, LEE, POST-RUSSIAN PERIOD, TRAVEL, TRIP TO

MEXICO; DURAN, SYLVIA;

CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED

RESTRICTIONS: 3

CURRENT STATUS : POSTPONED IN PART

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 08/08/95

COMMENTS

: Box 13

Date in: 01/26/96

Released under the John F. Kennedy

assassination hecords Lollection Act o

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

56000 Date: 11-04-2021

TIFFFFFF

FFFFFF

F

NW 66000 Docld:32271494 Page 1

---

## Page 2

Sylvin DURAN

Wien Prisendent John I Kendig in assel

ore November 22, 1963, the United States

investigatione

agencies - 7BI, CA, Secret Service, eter --

evere ashed

to investigate the assaisinition. Where the cential

Intellegence Agency Wees City Staleo benened Thet Jee

Harvey Gaald had wested Weptis tily during tale

polember and eady ditober, it rimed its alistereie

cale to the tricet Embarsy made Siglember 27th,

September 28th

, and October fat, that cold home been

Oswald. l se Elichonie saivecelance dectem)

calls on dept 27,1963

" partent the le malite Run Ensal and?

Sylice Deran where Orald oppened to hive lecer?"

discursed: A Ste doviet Electranie Surveillance Section) Im alliterno;

the Wepis Cly Staten frend a Segtember 28,1963 ghons.

call frone sylver. Deeow to the Extre Encoulate, where

Sylvie swas solded that there was an Anvereco Mitig ein

at the Caban considile who hed presly iresited the

domet Emanle ne Soviel Etcetonie Survedliore Berton e finl

ahme call were the illeged Gruseld identified henseif

also found, (See Electronie Suedeillance Siction)

diliennene l

At thes oent

that it wald reguest the beern greesiment -- with whom

it had a gind weitershg a to arest Syluia.. Duenn (as

Syles Ducan was a besienn iligen, she del note haue

diplinentio

inementy) beccuse she nught shed some light

the

accessistaneis passrde the dradsenations"

NW 66000 Docld:32271494 Page 2

---

## Page 3

The blepie, City Stateim sent a seite to the gobeenacion

Devon' adders, chee mercher s

dhers, hes brochers adders, her lecense plate muscher, her

home ghme number, her place of work and. a reguant thait

she be anested indietely. Etate to Luis Echevarrio, Nir.23,

1963, CiA No. 444; Cable re ÔSUReD- DURAN, MEX 7029, NOVEMBER 23, 11i3;

CIANo. 441; Aune Goudpastore Chronology, 6949241, entry 3l, November 23,

1963, CrANs. l3s) She Wlepier lily Stileni Ase Auggiähd thrit

Duaw he held inemumendo sitil she sold te guertemed on

the mitter. (iled)

Ducase by

arch a request well jergedez thes clandestene pictinitig

it were disclosed that teens

winstin disll, the Wiesers Chat&Stalio, and nguisting that Sghe

(olois)

Ducca suit le assäted.

Inite wallen by westin Scoll de gho

evene Borkgestice, W'6-7248, esity 37, Ruember 23, 1963, CHA No. 63511

deait told whatter that he cold not rescind the regreat and

that Healguarters should aleady have receved a cable statig

that Sylvca Doean hard been arrested Erbidl

Autrage Westin seatt to

with Jack whitler, scoll called

that the

bast

Kist

Stin

NW 66000 Docld:32271494 Page 3

---

## Page 4

after Winstow Beatl's craversalise poch jack Whitter, scotl

called this transa

and stated that the blesses aty

Statur desired sgtico

immedictely to the Weties City Statem and that her anest

and statements not be com

wild to any eftest gings.

I chief 8 Statin phine call to Juis Echevarra, Mro. 23, 1963, CrA

No. 440; Flash Cable fume kacamessenes to besio City Station,

November 23,1963, DIR 84916, C/A No. 463) Chronology of Anne Gardpastore,

entry 46, November 23,1963, CIA No. 636)

On November 27,1903, the Nican ferment procle pa

copy 8 Ayla Dean's ten-page signed too

to thee

Welco City Staturn I Blied Heres re See Hawey Oswald and

Syleia Duran,

November 26,1963, CIA# 473}

Fegm._leacmng.co

original signed Statement oIsYL

Hament

She said:

Upon learning about the assassination

She and her

husband speculated that President Kennedy might have been

assassinated for racial reasons. When she became

aware

that the assassin was Lee Harvey Oswald, she ascertained me

that it was the same man that approximately two months

prior had been to the Cuban Consulate to solicit an intran-

sit visa to Russia. Having taken his name from the special

documentation he presented she knew that he was married to

a Russian woman and belonged to the "Fair Play for Cuba

Committee." She checked the data in the Consulate archives

and became certain that it was the same individual who was

blonde, short, dressed unelegantly. and whose

face turned red

when agry. The Consul had denied the visa because to

NW 66000 Docld:32271494 Page 4

---

## Page 5

pages.

obtain an intransit visa

from the Cuban government, it

was imperative that he previously obtain a visa from the

Soviet Consulate. Since obtaining a visa from the Soviets

took four months and Oswald's Mexican visa expired soon

Oswald became excited

and

Duran had to call the Consul

who had an argument with him.. The only aid she could give

Oswald was

advising that he see

the Soviet Consul, and

calling the person in charge of that office.

The Soviet

official told

her that they would have to consult Moscow

which would take four months. That afternoon, Oswald re-

turned to the Cuban Consulate and Sylvia Duran confirmea

that he could get a Cuban visa only after he received a

Russian visa. She gave Oswald her name and

business phone

number but never gave him her address because she had no

reason to give it to him. She knew that phoning the Soviet

Consulate was not one of her duties and that if she did

so she did it only to help Oswald. She gave Oswald her

business phone number only because he would have to call

subsequently to check whether he had obtained a visa... He

never called back.

(Blind Memo Te Lee Harvey Oswald and

Sylvia Du

-196-3

/ CIA #173) .

-Aglica Duean was Weased Anember 24, 1963 and

reanested November 27, 1963, when the Wesicaw grocerment alleged that

she was attempting to leave Wedics for travel to Havara. I Cable fune

Metero Cy Stalini to Herolguarders, Arvember 27,1963, Merr 7104, CIAT 482;

Cable from Wesco City Statini to Headquarters, Rovember 27, 1963, Weri

1101, CIA 493) according to the weseaw fficials who detamed

a second time

NW 66000 Docld:32271494 Page 5

---

## Page 6

The Wedics City Station friwaded Ducar's ter Og*

signed statement to healquaters on Ur. 23,1963. I Cable Merico

Cty Statem to Headquarters, November 27, 1963, Mahi 7105, CIA No. 479 ;

Chinoogs 8 anne Songadure, Raember 27, 1963, entry No. 127, CIA No. 656]

The follning day Headguantes pent a clanficatin cable to the

Werico City Station seating to mane that neither Sylves Duran

mr the Chans will have a basis for creluting that the

Amerious ivere behind hes reavest. I the cable staled,"'e want the

Mercan sochruties to take the respousbility for the whole offair;

Cable from Headquarters to the Alpices City Station, November 28, 1963,

DIR 85371, CLA No. 464; Chrondagy of Anne Good pasture, Bide. "8, 1963,

Wx.7244, entryno. 141, CIA No, 658)

When the Centel Intellegence Agency begare to work with

the warren Commission, Head quaters cabled the Weing City Stalion

that their plane in passing infersatio to the warren Coremission

was to eliminute marter f telephne taps i onder to ported thin

continuing pectenis. I cie Cable from Headquarters to Meters City

Station, December 21,1963, DIX 90466, CIA N0.549; Chronogy if Anne

Gaidpasture, December 21,1963, Entry No, 268, CIA M. 682) Headguaders called that

they wall rely on Sylvia Decon's statements and on the Consular. Jules

which the Sirets give the State Deft. Crbid; I Headquarters strased

that exart, detailed infrisatin fume Litanil-? and Litanil-9 -- penetration,

= on what sylve Duen and othe

valuable and usable incobrative evedence)

Where the centel latellegence Oguey frowarded to the

Hot lende shit, Egap I

NW 66000 Docld:32271494 Page 6

---

## Page 7

jent

had whied i Deen; statemets but had

The eat stately ery blot Don's deserten f Darnel

stratise Duan's attement, that" the mly and she cold give

Oscall was alrising that he see the swist crusel, and calling

the peon in chage f that ffice"

which hasted to Osuall

asting for one type f aid tobite at the Cahon Consulate. (sugap)

NW 66000 Docld:32271494 Page 7

---

## Page 8

VI

Infrinchin not avalable at the time f the Warren

Commusin.

SyluiA DURAN.

1. House Select Contes on Discisitatenis 6/4/18

Intercio f Sylica Button.

sylica. Firado Bagan (No Tiento divorced Arito Duan)

told the rise siled nette Assassistines stiffers

the follewing:

done wish The cal

1963,

animesic

premiss

frist waited to

Wh. Trado (Duran Senseek Hate Dude do 1968)

was inver gristined by Americant fiends to 1943. Shoos,

The committie

catablished contret some th blade no Guest

and requested that the wrican gresome t mater Sught Jeandes

availabile for intervene I Letter MSeA to Mere gout,

TER Doe. 11

I she Wedean greenement

cruglin

no 6/6/98

Anassalines the fretaring i

NW 66000 Docld:32271494 Page 8

---

## Page 9

Sylvia Duran Statements

Page 7.

Lee Harvey Oswald visited the Cuban Consulate

three times September 27, 1963, not twice as the Warren.

Commission previously reported. (HSCA interview of Sylvia

baran, 6/6/78, JFK DOC.

P.

Oswald. first visited

the Cuban Consulate at approximately 11:00 a.m., requesting

an intransit visa to Cuba with Russia as the tinal destina-

(bid 373-526)

tion.

Oswald showed her some documents, then, left to

obtain photographs needed for his application. (#SeA

ibid

view of sylvia Dura, 6/6/78, JFK Doc: p8. 523-526)

OSWAID:

He returned at approximately 1:00 p.m. with four

ntertica

photographs. (HSCA interview of Sylvia Duran, 616/78, JFK

Tirado

Doeument # (bid p. 526) Ms. Duran typed the application

in duplicate, stapled a picture on top of each and had

Oswald sign each in her presence. (HSCA interview of Sylvia

Duran, 6/6/78, JPX DoC-#(ibid

identification

, p. 527-8) As proos Os-

wald showed her spraial documents he had brought: his Rus-

sian labor card, marriage certificate with the name of

his Russian wife, his American Communist Party membership

card and his "Fair Play for Cuba" membership card. THSCA,

interview of Sylvia Duran, 6/6/18, UPK' DOC. #

Ms:Tirado

(bid p.531) MS.

"stated that she found Lee Harvey Oswald's

behavior suspicious because normally a Communist traveled

only with his passport because belonging to the Communist

NW 66000 Docld:32271494 Page 9

---

## Page 10

Sylvia Duran Statements

Page 8.

Party was illegal in Mexico in 1963. (HSCA interview: Ibid

p. 533)H there was a procedure wherehy the American Com-

munist Party would arrange visa matters for their members

with the Cuban Communist Party. (Ibid. p.532-533) The

American would then come to Mexico, visit the Cuban Consulate )

and receive his visa immediately. (Ibid., p.533) When

Tirado

Duran asked Oswald why he did not have the American Com-

munist Party arrange his trip to Cuba he stated that he had

did not have time. (Ibid., p.532)

After Duran explained to Oswald that he had to acquire

a Russian visa before he could receive a Cuban visa,

(#bid., p.534) Duran jotted her name and business phone

number on a piece of paper and gave it to Oswald who

then left to get his Russian visa. (Ibid., p.549, 534)

Oswald returned to the Cuban Consulate between

5:00 p.m. and 6:00. p.m., which was after normal working

hours, (10:00 to 2:00 p.m.) (Ibia., p. 543) The guara

"Doran Tirado

called herstating that someone who did not speak Spanish

was

at the gate inquiring about a visa. (Ibid., p.543-4)

As routine procedure, she asked the guard to escort

the individual to her office. (Ibid. p.544) Oswald told

her that he had acquired a Russian visa. (Ibid., p. 544)

Since he did not produce it when asked she called the

Russian Consulate. (Ibid., p.545) The Consul told Duran

NW 66000 Docld:32271494 Page 10

---

## Page 11

Sylvia Duran Statements

Page 9.

that Oswald had been to the Consulate requesting a visa

and

had been told that the reply would take approximately

four months. (Ibid., p.545) When she relayed the message

to oswald he got very excited, insisting that as

a per-

son who had been injail because of the Cuban Revolution

he should receive a visa. (Ibid., p. 546) Oswald stated

That long.

that he could not wait & lung period of time because his

Mexican visa expired in three days. (Ibid., p. 546) At

this point Ms. Duran carted the Consul, Eusibio Azcue, of the situation.

(bad 0549)

Alfredo Mirabal. e

ment, Alfredo Mirabal: (Ibid., p. 546)

Azcue politely

explained the requisites for an intransit visa to Oswald.

(Ibid., p.. 546, 554) When he noticed that Oswald was a

stubborn man he told Oswald that he was obviously not a

friend of the Cuban Revolution, because if he was a friend

he wouldotherwise.

understand that Cuba had to be extremely careful

the country

with the people it allowed in Cuba. (Ibid., p. 554) Azcue

and Oswald yelled at each other. (Ibid., p. 551) Then

Azcue went to the door, opened it and asked Oswald to

Leave: (Ibid., i 5516655491a did not revisit or tele

phone the Consulate. beeause if he had she would have re-

membered it. The consulate did not have many Amerioan

visitors wha had been to Russia and had married a Russian

NW 66000 Docld:32271494 Page 11

---

## Page 12

Ws. Trich territed deserted Tee Mean all as

apperimetely 5 fast sex Islande hair, augho

125 els,

and with very little hair. (bed p.92)

NW 66000 Docld:32271494 Page 12

---

## Page 13

+ Page 19A

b. The

Possibility that Silvia DurAN Was AN

IntelliGENCE AGENT FOR EITHER the CENTRAL

Intelligence Ayewey or The Cuban Intelligence Agency

Sign Dinan a Centel Artellegance Egant

ellas Silve Duran a Calen bitelligence Get?

i) Wis Silvi Duran a Centerl Intelligence

In an effort to resolve this question the truse

select Crimeter rised the United St tes' investing tone

inteligent in

In axletion, the Hours Selet Committee in Azarsiation,

iterewed most f the Were City Stitene's employees short

the allegatom. Only Daried Philly's (Chief. f Evert Goin In

alligatim posarble.

agency silked

Doem? Epitined is a term used by the ciA to deseget an

palempt to resist in andrill clout everyone at the

Cation Emberg.

ENSCA interve Z Diried Phillips, $13/78, 8.53 but

that

"It was possible that she ISylViNDUR AND wrs not

lched becue the station l Mexici Catta

edentify any of her weaknese?

hi. Phillips was then tild abret

Istimit i's stitement that set that will have to be home to

it Duce wiss. get a blonde, blue-eyed American in bed

Twith the little pite I Pite is i spoich teem fu wohne I.

NW 66000 Docld:32271494 Page 13.

---

## Page 14

Ot that print, In Phillys etled that it applied the Doesn.

Thad at ben targeted, that the sctim. si salsat had been.

substantial and that the weaknesses and mind had been

identified. I the p.4) 1. Phieligs gownted nt however, that

toughing thie mat pen that Do tat...

because Duden had been tregattd did. not necessity. mean

aw that Destme hand been gitched. Chid pii?

Arches Cit employee, DAN Neiscur Lists wished on an

josuild Terk force in late September or caly Outer 81975 lie

n agesy souce, lites decision was based in a revie!

Orald's 201 file, " fossilly because f the tey ti

the sussentin to guttert Dies" I ASiA Artica: f 8/29/18, 8.13

Despute Mhs. Phillys and Mr. Neiscies stitements,

NW 66000 Docld:32271494 Page 14

---

## Page 15

ii. Was Silure DuMAN A CUBAN INTEllENCE

"Agrat?

In an effort to been the gustin, so so Dea

am i it i get the sa reviewed the is intel git

aginia. Silvis Ducan, The Cormitte found no evidece on the files.

indust

Heave in

W. tills, though not perfersing to remanter all the telals, stated

that he thright that. Dueen was

Cuban intellence agent. IHSCA

testery of Barney Hikely, 511418, p-163 the paid:'"

at the tince when this

content told. meg Sylua Duen do tick the two togater, yes. ser. I don-t

Kano, not.

It that tone it was oboins to me as an intelleyu agent

that there wine some conneton there boat at was f no interest. whitarve

to me, I do remenber that when I next saw this contact f wine t

mentioned the fact to him and let hain quozed to do whiterer he wanted

to.

Mr. Kelly frither statet that he never rested the issue. E.b. ps)

so temo wheeler

The Hase Silent Concre

We Dain wis a Cuban intellync agent

To Hell was the time witners to assent that

Duan may have bees a Cuban intellegese agent..

--.

sit. Che intelgiace.

NW 66000 Docld:32271494 Page 15

---

## Page 16

B.

ThecubANs

When Sture allegelly risted the Cuban Consulite, Cractio

he had. diplomatis. immeriily, the Cabon gross net shad never

ashel the Cuban gresset tosate Carcere Ago intelashe.

Cuban goreensurail,

new fred Ruly stail out the Dallas Palle Statons sone sest

Wirabal, sto in Sept 1963, dad pereilly Arred fiut Cile

m. Set 84, 1731

Intrichal suarlabh fu il gillie diariegs, (Letter ASCA 10

J. The Caland

1.

vente a

denti del set

se sü te stre contri

NW 66000 Docld:32271494 Page 16.

---

## Page 17

visited the cabar Consulate on the reass in late.

Higtember and saily October 1968. I Wa. Oyare suld nort

"pingoint she chact dites f the visit IPublic Heavy Tishonenerg

3 Evant Agave Jogg, 9814178, p5-30-31) the individuch frist

visited the Cuban cousibate during worshing hones, requesting

an initianant vis to cal with kisses as the found

destination. The man shoved the perting, dylues Durand,

pome dozuments [Communist party membership cou, Faxe play tr

Cuba membership caid, Ariet Unri sardene Gord, marsege coitfientie,

a stire e line in in no eat a bale el ante

ayers fogey, 9118178, ps.38) When the seetaig unet not gait

him a irse, the was toted me to sad whether dont

photogragi needed for has applectem, Cibid p20)

she man grate turned on ten 22, 1003 mie

the phanto gangles and post the appliestini no Durans

questorse. Lilaid p32) as the arrant of tame regined to

one this document comed i do by a yet days on

the reggns sand to been migrive, i told the mase

may government, if he hand a Russian Vess. Eatinid p33% the

individuad the lip to toin his Resorant with, (abait p. 33).

agent the lege che mandal, azens received a teleme

call front the Soviet Eman, Idea could mit press the tied

in the phone call? Is Epublic Meanery Failuring 3 Ensuben Osine Jogs)

318175,8347 The Grant lend that these me on.

the Saiate

sect lagitate but that the could not roud a midas

entel sting pecaned attigatin, furs ilazien, (ibidp 35)

NW 66000 Docld:32271494 Page 17

---

## Page 18

opened that the endles, garlably netamed to the Crusulate,

on September 28, 1963-Whos Ozens applaud to Oswald that

the could ni get home a wis, the id tate attent

and callind

It that port, age bec

to seave the Cousbate. Osunt did pit ninet sole

Combate. (raid p. 18)

Is let discot the means the wist tits

Conomlates as feels: a untito tale, batereon 5'6"anl s''",

over 30 years f age, many then feing a foes, withe straight enget

and a cold tile in his anges. lied p5D-S) agent alleged

that he sould never have identifit tee sterey dewild a the

man to minted the Cabin Catato in 1902.

Assassiations. at the pitle heardgs, 1st8, the foelwoung

Done Seeingariss,

seytembo 1943. Ell Whital could not gunpon the spit da thes

& Olds wiste but opened that the pee mat steered wor

september 37120: 00 lite occasion shere-pese aich Init.

angumant that Windad thinght that the more's visht the

than she was the ju anton hat appear that fined the smild mit agend fing lush

ex consul beese handled the matter (obed p117)

That he feet sta

Thrugh shabad eaget indy glimpsesf the man, he

opined. that the geran whose faitint appears to the bes

NW 66000 Docld:32271494 Page 18

---

## Page 19

Hey Dawall win apple hon we the pome Joe Havey

Oswald who wisted the Croubates, (rbid p.120)

NW 66000 Docld:32271494 Page 19.

---

## Page 20

Lic

Maicity

Pants accurre winite de udi

ree to the dantians ?

On October 5, 1964, eleven days after the publica-

tion of the Warren Commission Report, a story alleging

Lee Harvey Oswald's presence at a party in Mexico City

attended by, Cuban government personnel came to the atten-

tion of the Central Intelligence Agency (Wx742, p.94, entry

#430, CIA #721: Blind memo dated 10/5/64, CIA #576) .

allegation of this type, if true, could negate the warren

commission's conclusion that fee. Harvey Oswald was the

lone assassin of President John

Kennedy :

Elena's Story as Reported October 5, 1964

Elena Garro de Paz and Deba Garro de Guerrero Galvan,

first cousins fo Horatio, Ruben and Lynn Duran were invited

to a twist party at the home of Ruben Duran in the middle

of the week in the fall of 1963. Lee Harvey Oswald was

alleged to have been at this party in the company of "two

other beatnik-looking boys." (Ibid.): The Americans re-

mained together the entire evening and did not dance.

When Elena tried to speak with the Americans, she was

"shifted" to anther room by one of her cousins? sy

( The

memo does not state whether Elena had mentioned which cousin

had not allowed her to speak to the Americans.) One of

Elena's cousins told her at the time that (he or shel did

not know who the Americans were except that Sylvia Duran

lan employee of the Cuban Embassy and the wife of Horatio

Duran, had brought them to the party.' :

NW 66000 Docld:32271494 Page 20

---

## Page 21

-2-

The day after the party, Elena and Deba saw the

three Americans on the Insurgents, a main avenue in Mexico

city "*

The Garros claimed that they had recognized Oswald's

photograph when it was published after the assassination libd)

Sylvia Duran's arrest "underlined the Garros' certainty"

that the ma had been Lee Harvey Oswald. (Ibid.)

-Deba added that Lynn and

one of the Duran brothers

had made trips

to Texas. (Ibid.) She added that, even

though the Duran brothers had always been poor before

the assassination, they were both driving expensive new

cars. (Ibid.)

The source of the memo was a witting Central Intelli-

gence Agency asset known by the cryptonym LICOOKIE I whom

the Committee identified as June Cobb Sharp while receiv-

ing LICOOKIE's file.: According to Elena, Ms. Cobb was

sent to her house shortly after the assassination for

few days, by a mutual friend, a Costa Rican writer Eunice

odio. (CIA No's 580-583; WX-7241, Entry #427, p. 92, CIA

#719) Ms. Garro asserted that while at her house, Ms.

Cobb expressed interest in the Kennedy assassination.

(i3.8

night Elena's sister Deba, who was visiting, got drunk and

told the whole story. (Ibid.) Claiming to be a CIA agent,

Cobb suggested that Elena and Deba go to Texas to tell

their story. (Ibid.) Elena stated that when Cobb's sugges-

tion was rejected, Cobb stated that she would arrange a meet-

NW 66000 Docld:32271494 Page 21

---

## Page 22

- 3 -

ing with the CIA Station Chief. (Winston Scott was the

Mexico City Station Chief in 1964). The meeting did not

occur because Ms. Cobb was asked to leave the Garro

house evidently because she kicked Elena's cat. (CIA

No's 580-583; Wx7241, Entry #427, P. 42, CIA #719). A

notation on the memo says that L/l (Licookie I) never re-

gained contact with Elena Garro de Paz. (Wx7241, p. 94,

Entry #430, CIA #721; Blind Memo dated 10/5/64, CIA #576) .

The Licookie memo was not inserted in either the

Elena Garro or Lee Harvey Oswald "p" (personality) files

but in a local leftist and Cuban project file.

The Com-

mittee learned about the memo from Wx-7241, a chronologi-

cal history of the Oswald case prepared by Anne Goodpasture

for the CIA in 1976). The memo was found in December,

1965.

(See Wx 7241, P. 94, CIA #721): Stanley Watson

found the memo.

A marginal notation on Wx7241 says,

"Why

was this not sent to Headquarters?" (P. 87, CIA #714) •

The

Committee has been able to determine that the memo was for-

warded to headquarters shortly thereafter.

raised!

I,550e5

Biography

~ just lee he is

The story was told by Elena Garro de Paz who was traum e

born of Spanish parents in Puebla, Mexico on December 11, feel au

1917. (All information in this section culled from Bio-

graphy Da form prepared by Charles Thomas.) Ms. Garro

attended the National Autonomous University of Mexico and

I wrld leave this

pitin mt t inclide as a

fistarte

NW 66000 Docld:32271494 Page 22

---

## Page 23

-4-

later did graduate work at Berkley in California and at

the University of Paris. In 1963, Elena had long been mar-

ried to Octavio Paz, a career diplomat who is also one of

Mexico's finest poets and leading intellectuals. When

Octavio was named Mexican Ambassador to India, the couple

separated by mutual consent. Elena's daughter, also named

Elena, has always resided with her mother.

Since Elena spent seventeen years of her

early life

in Europe she had a rather un-Mexican objectivity about

her native land and had a reputation for being one of its

more articulate detractors. At the same time, Elena was

considered emotionally committed to anny aspects of Mexican

life and made an important contribution to its artistic

development.

In the 1960's Elena became a significant writer.

Hogar Solido, El Rey Mago, La Señora en su Balcon, Ventura

Allende, Andaise por las Ramas, Parada Empresa, and El Viaje

are plays that have had appreciatve audiences in Europe,

where they were translated into German, as well as in Mexi-

co. Ms. Garro's short stories are collected in a volume

called La Semana de Colores. The Literacy Supplement of

the London Times has called her novel, Los Recuerdos de

Porvenir, "a spendid success." Critics have said of her:

"For Elena Garro, there is not frontier between reality

and fantasy; in any case, the latter is a second reality--

perhaps more intense--to which one may penetrate without

NW 66000 Docld:32271494 Page 23

---

## Page 24

- 5 -

passport or forewarning, thanks to the effectiveness of

a literature fired with passion, flavor and life." Many

people who knew Elena have asserted

that the frontier

between reality and fantasy is also difficult for her to

distinguish in real life. (Biography Data Form on Elena

Garra de Paz prepared by Charles Thomas.)

Ms. Garro, for many years, was an active worker in

the Confederacion Nacional Campesina (CNC), the agrarian

arm of the Partido Reformista (PRI). Because Ms. Garro

was a tireless propagandist and agitator on behalf of the

poorer Mexican peasants, she was on close personal terms

with and enjoyed the respect of peasant leaders from all

over the country. (Ibid.)

Elena was considered a witty, urbane and opinionated

woman with an unflagging sense of humor. Her forthright

opinions and sharp wit tended on occasion to ruffle feathers

in Mexico, but her important social, literacy, and political

connections rendered her faily immune from serious counter-

attack until 1968. Then, Ms. Garro was forced to flee the

country with her daughter, Elenita and her sister, Deba

Guerrero de Galvan, in the midst of the student strikes.

The House Select Committee on Assassinations has

been unable

to determine the exact reason Ms. Garro had for fleeing

Mexico.

NW 66000 Docld:32271494 Page 24

---

## Page 25

- 6 -

Before her disappearance from Mexico, Elena was

well disposed toward the United States and had been friendly

with Embassy officers. Her broad range of significant

personal friends, the views of many important to the

American Embassy, made her a useful Embassy target. (A

"useful Embassy target"

is a person deemed important enough

because of acquiantances to merit frequent contact, either

witting or unwitting, with American Embassy officials.)

Informant Reports

A. October 12, 1964 CIA Memo for the Record

On October 12, 1964 the Chief of Covert Action, Jim

Flannery, wrote a memo for the record reporting that Elena

Garro de Paz had told her story to Eunice Odio. (The Com-

mittee has not been able to determine if Elena Garro told

Ms. Odio the story personally or if Ms. Cobb related to

Ms. Odio what Elena had told her) who relayed it to "Tich-

born" LTichborn was Henry P. Lopez' cryptonym. Mr. Lopez

a witting asset who wrote propaganda pieces for the CIA.

After careful review of his CIA file, the HSCA has not

been able to establish a link from Mr. Lopez to either Ms.

Odio or MS. Garro_/ On 10/9/64. L 10/12/64 memo, CIA

#596; Wx7241, p. 87, CIA #7147

The story is not as detailed as the 10/5/64 version.

There is no mention of Deba Garro Guerrero Galvan.

The

story, perhaps because it is third hand, differs from the

previous story in two areas: The party was at the Cuban

Embassy, not at Ruben Duran's; Elena talked

to a Cuban

NW 66000 Docld:32271494 Page 25

---

## Page 26

not a coit ta of

Warren Commission.

QI GIRING AHEATION

sire 1967

a regat that Alres Dwear had

had interiate relatines with bee Harvey Oswald Came to

the attention f the centel Intelligence Gyney's Mexico City

Statin. I Write-UP : Wallace

B. Rowton meeting with LiRINGs, Way

26,19677, The sorce, LING 3 (an extremely relicble sorce) stabil

that he had recently received a call fume Sylce Durase ELiFEAT

covecage. for Way 22, 1967, vinfred the ghore call? and that he had

pristed her to reneur acquaintanes Into up: Walace B. Routen

mecting.w.th LIRINGS, Way 26,19677 secan told SIRINGs that she

had met See Hawey Oscald at the Cabon Cresulate when he

applied fra. vess, And had dated. her one sevecal occastines.

Cibid) Dwear. admitted that she had had intimate pelations

with Oswald but insisted that she had no. idea f his pland.

In addition, Decan told LIRANG13. that when the neirs f

the assassination became public knowledge, the Merican gress.

ment arrested hes and during the interrogation beat her

ustil... she admadled that she had had an offair with

Tee Harvey Oswald, (rbid)

wrote.:

An a subsequent memocander, Headquarters

* "First that

with hee Harry

Sy a Duran suda sexual

the latter

Mexico

as little to the oswald case, Second,

i Secome, the Mexican

police, did not

repart the

Oswald

relationship

i this statistent iDisthete

DURAN-

[Dispatch

Chief af

Western Itemisphere to Chiefof Station, AMMA - 32243, May27, 1967, P. J

That the. Mexican goveinment did not discloses all the infrimation

i their sension to the Cuterl betell pace. Agenc

t rouses one d

two gossibilities? Ete the bican gruesment did not want to

disclose. that one f their citiger's had had intimite retalines with

the assassin f John 7. Here dy; or? files Decan was a Wiscon

pentection agent in the Calare Crisulate and the texican greesement

was gustecting

their infurmant.

NW 66000 Docld:32271494 Page 26

---

## Page 27

-7.

Embassy official, not one of her cousins about the three

Americans.

Attached to the memo was a note from Flannery to

the Chief of Station, Winston Scott, which read, "Do you

want me to send the gist of this to Headquarters?" Scott

then noted that the memo should be filed... The file indi-

cations: show that the memo went into the Oswald "p" file

and the Elena Garro "p" file. (Ibia.)

B. November 24, 1964 CIA Informant Report

On November 24, 1964 a Central Intelligence Agency

informant (The House select committee been unable

dues not appear

im amy cit

determine the informant's identity) reported information

(memo from Winston Scott to the files, re: June Cobb,

11/25/64, CIA Nos: 592-593; Wx 7241, p. 88, Entry #404;

CIA #715) he duelamed from "LICHANS/1. Ihile reviewing

LICHANT I's file the Committee determined that the CIA

asset's true name was Manuel Calvillo. Elena claims that

the day following John E. Kennedy's assassination, Calvillo

escorted her and her daughter to the Vermont Hotel for

protection; see also December 25, 1965 Thomas memo for

more information on Manuel Calvillo.) The informant as-

serted that June Cobb was an "American Communist" who

rented a room from Elena Garro. (Memo from Winston Scott

to the files, re June Cobb, 11/25/64; CIA Nos. 592-593,

Wx 7241, p. 88, Entry. #404, CIA No. 715) The informant

also stated that Elena tried to talk to Robert Kennedy when

NW 66000 Docld:32271494 Page 27

---

## Page 28

-8-

he was in Mexico because she had met Oswald "and two

friends (Cubans)"at a party at Horacio Duran's house.

(Ibia.) In addition, the informant claimed that Elena

also told her story to an American official, at the Em-

bassy, who claimed to represent the Warren Commission.

(Ibid.) The Chief of Station noted that he had asked

•iCHANT.

he informant to pursue the

story (Ibid.) but there is

he:

no indication that bICHANt I ever complied with this re-

quest.: (HSCA Review of Classified CIA Documents.)

Elena's: lown Accts:

( November 24, 1964 Elena Meeting with Mexico City Legal

Attache Officers

Elena and her daughter also told their story to

the Mexico City Legal Attache. (The Legal Attache in

1964 was Clark Anderson.)

They recounted the same story

June Cubb Sharp

previously given to LICOOKIE I.

The date of the party

was given as September 30, October 1 or October 2, 1963.

(FBI 105-825555 Report, Dec. 11, 1964

entitled Lee Harvey

Oswald, p. l) The agent who wrote the report l

) noted that Lee Harvey Oswald could not have

been identical with the American allegedly observed by

Mrs. Paz at the party if this party were held on the even

ing of October 1 or October 2, 1963. (FBI 103-825555

Report, Dec. 11, 1964 entitled Lee Harvey Oswald, p. 1)

FBI investigation of President Kennedy's assassination

had established that lee Harvey Oswald had departed Mexico

NW 66000 Docld:32271494 Page 28

---

## Page 29

- 9 -

City by bus at 8:30 a.m. on Octber 2, 1963 when Ms.

Paz stated that she saw Lee Harvey Oswald walking on

Insurgentes. (Ibid..p.3)

Elena was questioned regarding the identity of

ther persons-attending the party at the Ruben Duran home

who might have been in a position to observe the three:

Americans. Elena stated that in the course of the party

por ty and daned a to hin nae Mesane d shtet i i eie .

party and danced with him.

The daughter did

not take the calls and as a resült

"Alejandro" wrote

moiddtteinktejandro" wrote

several letters to the daughter.

Ms. Garro exhibited

two of the letters, as

well

as a business card which i-

dentified the young man as Ario Alejandro Lavagnini Stenius.

(Ibia. p. 3)

The letter which Ms. Garro said was the first writ-

ten by the young man to her daughter bore the date Septem-

ber 1, 1963 and the Mexico City Post Office postmark Septem-

ber 2, 1963. When Ms. Garro was told this she commented

that the Communists probably had facilities for falsifying

postcards. (Ibid.)

Io investigate Ms. Garro's story further, the

Federal Bureau interviewed Ario Alejandro Lavagnini Stenius

on November 27, 1964. (Ibid. p.4) Lavagnini recalled that

there were approximately thirty people at the Ruban Duran

party,- few of whom he knew. He recalled having met a Mexi-

NW 66000 Docld:32271494 Page 29

---

## Page 30

- 10 -

can girl who had recently returned from living in France.

He was unable to fix the date of the party, but felt it

was probably early in September because of a heavy rain

which occurred as they were leaving the party about 2:00

a.m. (Ibia. p. 4)

Lavagnini noted no Americans present at this party.

physical description.

He was familiar with the appearance of Lee Harvey Oswald

because of publicity following the assassination of Presi-

dent Kennedy but otherwise had no knowledge

of him and

had never seen him except for news photographs following

the assassination. (Ibid. p. 4)

Levagnini was the

only

person interviewed by the FBI who attended parties at

the Duran house in the September-October time frame.

FBI

There is no indication on the document that this

information was given to the Central Intelligence Agency's

Mexico City Station. l

A rever f CA files able conchorsed the dore.

Charles Thomas' First Meeting with Elena Garro Where Lee

Harvey Oswald is Discussed

On 12/10/65 Charles Thomas, a political officer at

the American Embassy, wrote a memorandum about a conversa-

tion with Elena Garro de Paz. (CIA #586-587, WX-7241 Entry

No. 425, p. 91, CIA No. 718.) The meeting with Elena had

been about other matters but she mentioned knowing Oswald.

Thomas noted that she was reluctant to talk but did. (Ibid.)

Elena's story reported here is the same, but with

more details,

as that given in the Licookie memo dated 10/5/44

NW 66000 Docld:32271494 Page 30

---

## Page 31

- 11 -

1055

She said that General Jose Jesus Clark Flores

la friend of Rubin Duran's,, Silvia Duran, Eluebio Azcue

(Cuban Consul in Mexico City), Emilio Carballido (a

pro-

Communist writer-friend of the Durans), and a Latin Ameri-

can Negro man with red hair (unidentified) were at the

party

A marginal comment by this entry in WX-7241

says, "How did Elena know about a red-haired Negro?"

Elena also

told Thomas that she had later learned that

Silvia Duran had been-"Oswald's mistress while he was

there." (A note by this entry in WX-7241 says, "How

did Elena Garro know about Silvia being the mistress of

Oswald?? This is 1965.") The Mexico City Station did not

hear about the Oswald-Duran "affair" until July 1967

when a CIA Asset Lirings reported it. LAfter reviewing

LIRING/ 3

/file at the CIA the House Select Committee on Assassina-

tions has been unable to determine, whomLIRING/3 was asso-

who.would..hase

ciated with that had knowledge about Sylvia Duran or Lee

Harvey Oswald./

Elena told Thomas that she and her daughter had gone

to the Cuban Embassy on November 23, 1963. and shouted

"Assassins" and other insults at the Embassy employees.

(CIA #586-587, Wx7241, Entry No. 425, p. 91, CIA No. 718)

That same day a friend, Manuel Calvillo, an official in

the Gobernacion, took her and her daughter to a small hotel

in the center of Mexico City. (Ibia.) They were kept

NW 66000 Docld:32271494 Page 31

---

## Page 32

- 12 -

there for eight days under the pretext that they were in

danger. (Ibid.) Elena claimed to have told Calvillo that

she wanted to tell her story to the American Embassy.

(Ibia.) Calvillo dissuaded her by telling her that the

American Embassy was full of Communist spies. (Ibid.)

Elena said that some of the other people who had been at

the party were taken to Veracruz where they were "protected".

by Governor Lopez Arias. LIbia; The House Select Committee

was unable to determine

Sie HSCA Investigation de veracities Ms

paz' allega-

Per Allegations.

tion:/ She said that Ruben Duran, reportedly "protected"

by General Clark Flores, was very prosperous and was

driving a big car. /CIA #586-587, Wx-7241, Entry No. 425,

p. 91, CIA No. 718/ Elena also claimed that. Ruben Duran

told her months after the assassination that he was not

really a Communist and that killing Kennedy had been a

mistake. (Ibid; the House Select Committee on

Assassina-

tions has not been able to determine whether Ruben actuat alis

Ser. MSCA Inüestigation

spoke to Elena about the assassination.

*Ruben

Ruben Duran claims

ne had no reason to stan that kill kenedy had bein a mistake since.

he had no inuilurent.

Charles Thomas circulated

concerning Elena's

allrget as copy of the charte.

distrobotafonto

mas memorandum in the American Embassy including

the Cen-

tral Intelligence Agency's Mexico City Station to aid

them in their investigation of the John F. Kennedy assassina-

tion.

/The House Select Committee has determined that the

Central Intelligence Agency received the copy of the thomas.

NW 66000 Docld:32271494 Page 32

---

## Page 33

- 13 -

his next meeting with ElenaGarre.

memorandum prior to December 25, 1965. See below./ - The

cos wrote a note on the memo: which says: "What an imagina-

tion she has!?! Should we send to Headquarters?" The Of-

ficer

replied, "Suggest sending. There have been stories

around town about all this, and Thomas is not only person

she has talked to...If memory serves me, didn't LICOOKIE

refer to Oswald and the local leftists and Cubans in one

of her squibs?" (CIA No. 588, note from SW to COs.)

The Mexico City Station called the information in

Thomas' 12/10/65 memorandum of conversations to CIA Head-

quarters (Cable from Mexico City to the Director, Mexi 5621,

date out off my copy; CIA Nos. 584-585) The cable reported

that Elena's story would be checked with LICHANT/1, against

the production from the Cuban surveillance operation "and

other sources." (ibid.)

Winston Scott wrote, next to

the

routing indications on the cable, "Please ask Charles Tho-

mas if he'll 'follow-up.' Get questions from Anne G. L Anne

Goodpasture7 Please let's discuss. Thanks." (itis)

After the December 10 memorandum of conversations,

Suitessor to Clark

Anderson 95

Winston Scott (Chief/Station) and Nathan Ferris (Legal

attaches called c. Thomas for a meeting. They asked him

account

to get a more detailed replay of Ms. Garro's story. At

this meeting Winston Scott made it clear that the FBI

had fully responsibility for any further investigation in

the Oswald case. (State Dept: letter from Charles Thomas

NW 66000 Docld:32271494 Page 33

---

## Page 34

- 14-

to William P. Rogers, July 25, 1969, JKF DOC. #

shades to inclicle only relevant

Thomas met with Elena again on December 25, 1965.

The

same date he wrote a memorandum of conversation which

provided a

much more detailed restatement of Ms. Garro's

alleged encounter with Lee Harvey Oswald at

aent

deve

netits. (CIA Nos: 580-583; Wx-7241, Entry #427, p. 92,

CIA #719)

Elena admitted that she had spoken to two men at the

Embassy, "presumably from the Legal Attache's Office."

(Ibid, The meeting occurred on Nov. 24, 1964.)

Sie suprap.

Elena

said that she did not

tell them the complete story because

"the Embassy officers did not give much credence to any-

thing she

and Elenita said.": (CIA Nos. 580-583; Wx 7241,

Entry #427, p: 92, CIA #719)

She stated that the party had been at Ruben Duran's

home. (Ibid.)

She was unclear about the date of the party.

(Ibid.) It was a few days before the Soviet Astronaut,

Gagarin, visited Mexico; she thought that this would put

the party around September 2 or 3, 1963. (Ibid.) She be-

lieved that the party was on a Monday or Tuesday because

it was an odd night for a party. (Ibid.) Elena could not

check her calendar to refresh her memory at the time of

the interview because the calendar was in a desk that had

been stored away. (Ibid.)

NW 66000 Docld:32271494 Page 34

---

## Page 35

- 15 -

During the conversation Elena described Oswald

and his companions. (Ibid.) The man who she thought

was Oswald wore a black sweater. (Ibid.) She said he

was quiet "and stared a lot at the floor." (Ibid.) One

of his companions

"was very tall and slender and had long

blond hair which hung across his forehead.

He had a

gaunt

face and a rather long protruding chin." (Ibid.)

The other companion was also tall, with short, light

brown hair and no distinguishing characteristics. (Ibid.)

The three Americans did not dance or mix with the other

guests. (Ibid.) Elena saw the

same three men on the

street the next day. (Ibid.)

Elena was certain that Eusebio Azcue, Horacio Duran,

Silvia Duran, Lydia Duran, Deba Guerrero, General Clark

Flores and his mistress, a doctor from Dalinde Hospital,

a young American couple who were honeymooning in Mexico,

and several other people were at the party. (Ibid.) She

said that Ricardo Guerra, whom she claims converted Horatio

Duran to Communism, and his wife, Rosario Castellanos,

were suppoed to be at the party but did not attend. (Ibid.)

deserte

Elena

alleged that the red-haired man and Emilio

Carballido were not at the party that Oswald attended but

at another party where Carballido and Azcue got into a

heated

argument about President Kennedy. (Ibia.) "They

came to the conclusion that the only solution was to kill

NW 66000 Docld:32271494 Page 35

---

## Page 36

- 16 -

him." (Ibid.) Elena was not clear on whether this party

was before or after the party where she met Oswald. (Ibia.)

See HSCA Investigetion of Elena Garro

The House Select Committee has been unable to confirm the

between Azcue and Carbêllido.

allegations,

theconuersatt.n.

conversation. Eusebio Azcue stated that it did not occur. J

Elena said that Carballido "is a known Castro agent

in Mexico." (Ibid.) After the assassination he spent a

year in Cuba. (Ibid.) He then got a job teaching at Rutgers

University through De. Jose Vaszuez Amaral. (Ibia.) The

House Seleet Committee has

3 been unable to confirm Ms. Garro's

allegations.

Elena reiterated that the incident at the Cuban Em-

bassy, where she and her daughter shouted "Assassins," etc.

at the Embassy employees, occurred on November 23 at or

about 3:00 p.m. (Ibid.) Elena and Elenita were driven

to

the Cuban Embassy by Elena's brother who was embarrassed

by their behavior.

(Ibid.) This

occurred before they had

seen photographs of Oswald. (Ibia.)

Ms. Garro claimed that later in the day she and Elenita

were visited by Manuel Calvillo who told them that they were

in serious danger from the Communists and that he would

take them to a small hotel, where they would be safe, for

a few days. (Ibid.) Elena said she trusted and believed

Calvillo because he was a known undercover agent for the

Mexico Government. (Ibid.)

He was also a friend of Noe

Palomares (the Minister of Immigration) and President Gustavo

NW 66000 Docld:32271494 Page 36

---

## Page 37

- 17 -

Diaz Ordaz. (Ibia.) Calvillo also told Elena and her daugh-

ter that silvia Duran had been arrested

Duran's arrest

was not public information on November 23, 1963. (Ibia=)

Elena could not remember the name of the hotel so

that same day (12/25/65) she took Thomas to the section

of Mexico City where she thought it was. (Ibid.) They

found the hotel. (Ibid.) It was the Vermont Hotel, Calle

Vermont 29. (Ibid.) Elena said that she assumed that

Calvillo had registered them as relatives or friends. (Ibia.)

They satyed at the hotel until the following Friday,

November 30, 1963, hardly leaving their rooms. (Ibid.) (See

Legal Attache report,

while

Elena claimed that/she and Elenita were at the hotel

they saw the photos of Oswald and realized that he had

been the man at Ruben: Duran's party. (Ibid.) When Calvillo

visited them at the hotel Elena told him that she wanted

to report it to the American Embassy, however, Calvillo

dissuaded her by stating that the American Embassy was

full of Communists. (Ibid.) Elena stated that when she

returned home, guards were posted outside. (Ibia.) (The

House Select Committee has been unable to confirm the

veracity of Ms. Garro's

claim. See #SCA Investigation of Elena Garri's

allegations

Elena alleged that after she returned homeshe saw

her sister, Deba Guerrera, who had independently come to

the same conclusion. Debawas "terrified" because approxi-

NW 66000 Docld:32271494 Page 37

---

## Page 38

- 18 -

ate. the

before bai

-detals

beer

mately two months after the assassination two "Communists"

personally warned her never to reveal that she had been

to a party with Oswald. (Ibid.) Deba, consequently,

would not accompany Elena to the American Embassy to tell

her story on November 24, 1964. (Ibia.)

Elena said that a few days after the assassination.

Emi

• Carballido took the Durans to Jalapa, Varacruz and

"kept them out of the way until the initial shock of the

assassination wore off.". (Ibid.) The House Select Committee

has been unable to confirm Ms. Garro's allegation."

Elena also alleged that shortly after the assassina-

tion

n American named June Cobb spent several days in her

house.

(Ibid.)

She said that Ms. Cobb had been sent to

Elena by a mutual friend, Eunice odio.

^Ibia.) Elena

claims that while Ms. Cobb was at her house she expressed

an interest in the Kennedy assassination. (Ibid.) Deba,

visiting Elena one night, got

drunk and told Ms. Cobb the

entire story. (Ibid.)

MS.

cobb wanted them to go to the

American authorities. (Ibid.

Claiming to be a CIA agent,

Cobb suggested that Elena and Deba go to Texas to tell their

story. (Ibid.) When her suggestion was rejected, Cobb

said that she

would arrange a meeting with the CIA Station

Chief. The meeting did not occur because

Ms. Cobb was

asked to leave the Garro house; evidently because she

kicked Elena's cat. (Ibid.) The House Select Committee on

NW 66000 Docld:32271494 Page 38

---

## Page 39

- 19 -

Assassinations has determined that June Cobb Sharp was

a CIA asset in 1964. (Supra p.. 3)

Elena claimed that Ruben Duran visited her circa

the end of January 1964. (CIA Nos. 580-583, Wx 7241, Entry

#427, p. 92, CIA #719) He was worried that Oswald's visit

to his home might be discovered and that he might lose:

his Mexican citizenship. (Ibid.) Ruben told Elena that

it had been Silvia who had gotten him involved with Oswald.

(Ibid.) Ruben added that he was not really a Communist

and had opposed the assassination. (Ibid.) (Ruben Duran

denied the story. HSCA Interview of Ruben Duran,

P..

• JEK DOC. #

Elena said that she had told her story to Noe Palomares

of

the Gobernacion about six months after the assassina-

tion. (Ibid:)

He advised against going to the American

Embassy and told her that if she did anything at all she

should merely write an anonymous letter. (Ibid.)

The

Committee spoke to Mr. Palomares who denied Ms. Garro's

claim. (HSCA interview of Noe Palomares,

JFK. Doc.

Elena stated that it was "common knowledge" that

)

Silvia had been Oswald's mistress. (CIA Nos: 580-583;

Wx7241, Entry #427, p. 92 CIA #719) When asked who could

verify the allegation she could only remember one person.

who had told her this. (Ibid.) Elena claimed that person

was Victor Rico Galan, a "pro-Castro journalist." (Ibid.)

/Victor Rico Galan is dead.

The Committee could not verify

NW 66000 Docld:32271494 Page 39

---

## Page 40

- 20 -

Ms. Garro's allegation. Sylvia Duran denied the allega-

tion.

Nonetheless, LIRING 3, a CIA asset reported the

same story in 1967:

During these conversations Elena also said that

she "understood" that Oswald had been in Mexico more than

once. (Ibia.)

/The HSCA has been unable to determine the exact date./

Subsequent to December 25, 1965 Thomas wrote in

the December 25, 1965 memo that Elena had found her

calendar and had reconstructed the date of the party as

late September and not early September. /CIA Nos. 580-

583, WX-7241, Entry #427, p. 42, CIA #7197

When Thomas

went to Ferris' office and informed him, Ferris replied

that Elena had given the late September date when she had

originally reported her story at the American Embassy.

(FBI Report, 9/30/69, pp. 3-4, JFK DOC. No.

However,

Mr. Ferris explained to Thomas that someone who had been

twist.

at the party had stated that there were no Americans there.

(Ibid.): Mr. Ferris did not tell Mr. Thomas that Ario

in as 196f interuew

Alejandro Lavagnini Stenius Ferris had provided this in-

formation in 1964. (Supra p.

) Mr. Ferris suggested

Elena's

allegations

that it was not necessary for

Thomas to pursue the matter

since he considered the Oswald case closed and had heard

all the rumors before. /FBI Report, 9/30/69, pp. 3-4,

JEK DOC. NO. I

The State Department forwarded (the same day) a copy

of the Charles Thomas memorandum to the Central Intelligence

NW 66000 Docld:32271494 Page 40

---

## Page 41

- 21 -

Agency's Mexico City Station to aid in their investiga-

tion of the John F. Kennedy assassination. On the first

page of the memorandum of conversation Winston Scott wrote

"Shouldn't we sent to Headquarters?" Someone responded,

"Of course." ICIA Nos. 580-583; Wx 7241, Entry #427, p. 92,

CIA #7107

FBI CReasion

iRe: Elena.

December 27, 1965 Legal Attache Memo to the United States

Ambassador re Elena Garro

Nathan Ferris

Lates write

On December 27, 1965 the Legal Attache had written

a memo to the Ambassador reporting that Elena and her daugh-

the Legel Attachet

ter were interviewed on 17 and 24 November 1964.

I. Memo

office in

Maris city

to the Ambassador from the Legal Attache, 12/27/65, CIA

#578; WX-7241, Entry #429, P. 94, CIA #721.I. The memo

recorden

had

said that Elena and her daughter furnished information simi-

clar to that in Thomas' 12/10/65 memo. (Ibid.) The memo

further stated, "Inquiries conducted

.at: that time (Novem-

ber 1964), however, failed to substantiate the allegations

made by Mrs. Garro de Paz and her daughter. In view of

the fact that Mrs. Garro de Paz' allegations have been pre-

viously checked out without substantiation, no further

action is being taken concerning her recent repetition of

those allegations." (Ibid.)

The Legal Attache forwarded a copy of the memorandum

to the Central Intelligence Agency's Mexico City Station.

(The House Select Committee has determined that the copy

was

forwarded prior to 12/29/78. See below.) Winston

NW 66000 Docld:32271494 Page 41

---

## Page 42

- 22 -

Scott superimposed superimposed a note to Anne Goodpasture

on this memo which read, "Can we send in a report to

Headquarters 'dismissing' our cable?" Goodpasture re-

sponded, "Done.". (Memo to the Ambassador from the Legal

Attache, 12/27/65, CIA #578, WX-7241 Entry #429, p. 94,

CIA #721) The cable Winston Scott wanted dismissed was

Mexi 5621 (Supra. p.

on December 29, 1965

A cable written by Anne Goodpasture/reporting the

Legat interview with Elena and the Legat office's failure

tọ substantiate Elena's story was sent to Headquarters.

(Memo from Mexico City to the Director, 12/29/65, Mexi

5741, CIA #575; WX-7241 Entry #430, p. 94, CIA. #721).

The cable promised to keep Headguarters advised if any

further information were to develop. (Ibid.)

the 12/29/65

LICOOKIE's 10/5/64 memo is attached to this cable.

WX-7241 explained this in a marginal-comment, "This docu-

ment by LICOOKIE was not in (Oswald's file), but was copied

from (a project file) and attached to Mexi 5741, 29 Dec

65. " (Ibia.)

Staples

A note superimposed to this cable by Allen White

stated, "I don't know what FBI did in November 1964, but

the Garros have been talking about this for a long time

and she is said to be extremely bright." Anne Goodpasture

wrote that the FBI had found Elena's allegations unsubstan-

tiated but that "we will try to confirm or refute Ms. Garro

de Paz's information and follow up." Win Scott wrote,

NW 66000 Docld:32271494 Page 42

---

## Page 43

- 23 -

"She is also 'nuts.'" (Ibid. CIA #574)

CIA Investigation of Elena's Allegation that She Created

A Disturbance at the Cuban Embassy on November 23, 1963

On February 3, 1966 Anne Goodpasture forwarded

Thomas' December 25, 1965 memo to the Cuban section with

C.ty

Mexico

statica

the

ETA iteado

an attached note asking them to check whether Elena was:

of the cuban Embassy. " hote tron Ame doodaster to 9n 2.

"seen creating such a disturbance as

either re fute

or corribirate

"Cubans," 2/3/66, CIA No. 579; WX-7241, Entry 428, p. 94, sume mopits

of Elene Garri

CIA #721.)

allegatious.)

One Cuban section officer responded, "No bells ring

with me." Another one wrote "Me neither." The third of-

ficer

wrote, "No pictures either." (Ibid.) There is no

indication that the penetration agents in the Cuban Embassy

were queried about Elena's allegation. Ibid., that there

are

no pictures

is reasonable since Elena claimed that

the event happened: 1) on a Saturday at 3:00 p.m. when

the Cuban Embassy was not normally photographically sur-

veilled; and 2) the "disturbance" occurred inside the Cuban

compound. HSCA Examination of the CIA Cuban Embassy photo-

graphic surveillance showed no surveillance on 11/23/63.

(Classified Sumnary of Staff Review of CIA Documents, un-

dated, p. 3, CIA #763.1

NW 66000 Docld:32271494 Page 43

---

## Page 44

- 24

FBl Conclusions Re. Elena

Legal Attache 2/23/66 Memo to the United States Ambassador

Regarding Elena Garro's Allegations

On 2/23/66 the Legal Attache wrote a memo to the

Ambassador reporting that "extensive investigation"

failed to disclose that Oswal'd had traveled to Mexico

prior to September 26, 1963 and that no information had

developed that would show that he had not been in New Or-

leans in the early part of that month. /Memo from Legat

to Ambassador, 2/23/66, CIA #571; WX-7241 Entry #455, p. 95,

CIA #722/ The memo reitereated that no further action

was being taken by the FBI because Elena's allegations had

not been substantiated. - (Ibid.) The Legal Attache fowarded

if this meme

a copy to the Central Intelligence Agency's Mexico City

Station. (The House Select Committee on Assassinations has

been unable to determine when the copy was

forwarded to

the CIA.) A marginal comment made by Anne Goodpasture next

to this entry in WX-7241 says, "How can it be ascertained

that Oswald did not travel to Mexico prior to early September

1963? There must be some basis for Elena's reporting."

(Ibia; referenced to Thomas' 12/25/65 memo.)

Charles Thomas 7/13/66 Memorandum of Conversation re Elena

Garro

sor

on 7/13/66 Charles Thomas wrote a memorandum of con-

versation reporting that Elena had told him that she had

received an Invitiation to visit Cuba from Ambassador

Juoquin Hernandez Armas. (Memorandum of Conversation by

NW 66000 Docld:32271494 Page 44

---

## Page 45

- 25 -

Charles Thomas, 7/13/66, CIA #565; WX-7241, Entry 460;

p. 96, CIA #723) Elena gave Thomas two letters to sup-

port her claim. (Ibid.) She said the itters had been

delivered to her home by a driver from the Cuban Embassy.

(Ibid.) The envelope gave

her address as Vermont 38.

(Ibid.) Because of her stay at the Hotel Vermont she saw

the letters as a threat and was frightened." (Ibid.) (The

HSCA has determined that the Cuban Government invited

Elena Garro to visit Cuba due to her literary talents;

See Biography•)

Legal Attache Memo to Winston Scott re Elena's Allegation

that She Had Stayed at the Hotel Vermont from the Day After

the Assassination until November 30, 1963

On: 10/13/66 the Legal Attache wrote a memo to the

CIA/COS reporting that a reliable confidential informant

had

reported that the records of the Hotel Vermont dis-

closed that "Elena Paz, housewife from San Luis Potosi"

had registered at the Hotel Vermont on November 23, 1963.

She left on November 30, 1963. (Memo from Legat to Winston

Scott, 10/13/66, CIA No. 564; WX-7241, Entry

• #466, p. 98,

CIA #725; Thomas' 7/13/66 memo.) (The House Select Committee

on Assassinations has been unable to determine why the

•Central Intelligence Agency and the Federal Bureau of In-

vestigations waited until 1966 to investigate this aspect

of Elena's story.) The Memo said that "the above individual

may or may not be identifical with Elena Garro de Paz." (Ibid.)

NW 66000 Docld:32271494 Page 45

---

## Page 46

- 26 -

corroborates

presence

vermon

Garrs

Charles Thomas' 12/25/65 memo, states, "She (Elena)

and her daughter did not personally register at the hotel.

She thinks Calvillo registered them as relatives or friends

of his from San Luis Postosi." (Memo of Conversation by

Charles Thomas, 12/25/65, p. 3, CIA #582) The entry for

the 10/13/66 Legat memo in WX-7241 bore the notation,

"This is what Elena claimed and no one would believe her."

(WX-7241, Entry #466, p. 98; CIA #725)

Charles Thomas' September 30, 1969 Letter to State Depart-

ment and Legal Attaches Response

No further reports on Elena's story was generated

until 1969 when Charles Thomas was "selected out." ("Se-

lected out" is a phrase used when an officer is retired

after having been in one grade for the maximum period of

time and is not considered qualified for promotion to a

At that time.

higher grade). Then, he wiote a memorandum to the secre-

tary of State which included a cover letter stating,

"Since I was the Embassy Officer in Mexico who acquired

this intelligence information, I feel a responsibility

for seeing it through to its final evaluation."

• (State

Department: Letter from Charles Thomas to William Rogers,

Secretary of State, July 25, 1969)

Charles

Thomas' memorandum stated that "he got no

reaction from Nathan Ferris and Winston Scott" regarding

NW 66000 Docld:32271494 Page 46

---

## Page 47

- 27 -

his memorandum of December 25, 1965. (State Department:

Letter from Charles Thomas to William Rogers, Secretary

of State, July 25, 1969) In addition, Thomas wrote that

the only person to speak to him about the December 25,

1965 memorandum, Clarence Bonstra (Deputy Chief of Mis-

sion, State Department, Chief of Affirs at the time.

President Kennedy's assassination and subsequent Oswald

investigation) told him that Oswald had not been in Mexico

on the date given for the party.

(State. Department: Letter

from Charles Thomas to William Rogers, Secretary of State,

July 25, 1964) Thomas noted that even when he reiterated

that Elena had not changed her story but rather that she

had now given a more accurate account, Boonstra stated that

the date was wrong and dismissed the entire affair. (Ibid.)

The Mexico City Legaths Office, Nathan Ferris, in

reply to Thomas' letter and memorandum, asserted that

Thomas' office had been advised by memoranda dated Decem-

ber 27, 1965 and February 23, 1966 that since Elena Garro's

allegations had previously been

investigated without sub-

stantiation, no

further action was 'being taken concerning

her recent repetition of those allegations. (FBI Report,

9/30/69, Pp. 3-4, JFK DOC. No.

In their report, the

Legat's Office concluded that either the Counselor for Poli-

tical Affairs did not route the memoranda to Charlés Thomas

or that Thomas did not recall receiving them. (Ibid.)

NW 66000 Docld:32271494 Page 47

---

## Page 48

- 28 -

Thomas wrote that when he went to Nathan Ferris'

office to inform him that Elena had found her calendar

and had reconstructed the date of the party as late Sep-

tember, Ferris replied that Elena had given the late Sep-

tember date when she had originally reported her story.

the American Embassy. (State Department: Letter from Charles

Thomas to William Rogers, Secretary Of State, Julye 25,

1969) - Thomas noted that Ferris explained that someone

wh chad been at the party had stated that there had not

been any Americans. (Ibid.) He wrote that he had assumed

that Elena could have clearly been mistaken about the identi-

ty of the American

she saw there, but never doubted that

she had seen some Americans. (Ibid.) Thomas alleted that

had

Ferris suggested that it was not necessary for Thomas to

pursue the matter since he considered the Oswald case

closed and had heard all the rothes before. (ibid.)

statinemi

The Legat Officesreplied that Mr. Ferris had not

told Thomas that someone who was at the party had stated

that there had not been any Americans

Legal

present is FBI Report,

, The affort asserted that

9/39/69, p. 4, JEK DOC. No.

Thomas had been told that it would not be necessary for

him to pursue the mater

any further since Elena's story

had been

investigated previously without being substantiated.

(Ibid.) In addition, the memo stated that Thomas had been

told that Elena's story was considered a closed issue, not

NW 66000 Docld:32271494 Page 48

---

## Page 49

- 29 -

this

Le

that the Oswald case was closed. (Ibid.)

House Select Committee on Assassinations' Investigation of

Elena Garro's Allegations

Napt

The House Select Committee on Assassinations investi-

gated Elena Garro's story both through file reviews and

personal interviews. The Committee requested and reviewed

the CIA!s, FBI's and State Department's files, when

available, on Elena Garro de Paz, Elenita Garro de

paz,

Manuel Calvillo, Noe W. Palomares, June Cobb Sharp,

Victor Rico

Galan, Eunice Odio,

sylvia Duran, Lydia

Duran, Ruben Duran, Betty Serratos, Horatio Duran, Eusebio

Azcue, and Emilio Carballido. Only the Elena Garro de

Paz-file contained information on her allegations:

Though

all the names listed above played a role in Elena Garro

de Paz'

story, not one of their files included a reference

to Elena Garro de Paz.

Furthermore, the House Select Committee on Assassina-

tions. requested and reviewed the Central Intelligence

Agency's LICOOKIE I, LICHANT I, LIRING 3, LIHUFF I and

TICHBORN files.

Once again, not one of the files included

a mention of Elena Garro's allegations. The House Select

Committee on Assassinations learned that

to the Ci ALICOOKIE I was

June Cobb. Sharp who first reported Elena's allegation.

(Supra, p. 4) The Committee also learned that LICHANT I

NW 66000 Docld:32271494 Page 49

---

## Page 50

- 30 -

was Manuel Calvillo who had

Elena Garro and her daughter

in a hotel the day following the assassination. (Supra,

p. 13) He also told Elena that Sylvia Duran had been ar-

rested before this fact had become public knowledge. (Ibid.)

Since

file review was inconclusive, the Committee

decided to arrange interviews in Mexico with Sylvia Duran,

Elena Garro, Elenita Garro, Horacio Duran, Ruben Duran,

Lynn Duran, Emilio Carbillido and Betty Serratos. The

Mexican Government informed the House Select Committee on

Assassinations that Elena and Elenita Garro disappeared

in 1968 during the student uprisings and have never re-

turned to Mexico. The officials stated that Elena and

her daughter might be in Spain.. (See Mexico City Proce-

dural Write-up Trip 1.) The Mexican government reported

that Emilio Garballido could not be found. (Ibid.). The

others were interviewed between June 1 and June 6, 1978.

(Ibid.)

Betty Serratos, Lydia Duran, Ruben Duran, and Horatio

Duran all stated that Elena was not the dancing type and

therefore did not attend any of the twist parties at the

Duran homes. (See: HSCA Interview of Betty Serratos,

6/6/78, p. 6, JFK Document No.

; HSCA Staff Interview of

Lydia Duran, 6/5/78, p. 6, JFK Document No.

; HSCA

Staff Interview of Ruben Duran Navarro, 6/6/78, p: 16, JFK

Document No.

; HSCA Staff Interview of Horatio Duran

Navarro, 6/5/78, p. 25, JFK Document No.

). When

NW 66000 Docld:32271494 Page 50

---

## Page 51

- 31 -

Sylvia Duran was asked if Elena or Elenita Garro ever

attended twist parties at the Duran homes, she recalled

Elena attending one twist party at Ruben's home in 1963

when the Garros returned to Mexico from France.

(HSCA

Staff Interview of Sylvia Tirado Bazan, 6/6/70, p. 90,

JFK, Document No.

All the Durans denied that lee

Harvey Oswald had attended any party at one of their

homes. (String cites.)

The Committee next asked the Central Intelligence

Agency to arrange staff interviews with LICHANT/1. (Manuel

Calvillo); LICOOKIE/1 : (June Cobb), along with a list of

other assets who may have had information related to Lee

Harvey Oswald's trip to Mexico City. (

The Central Intelligence Agency declined. to aid the Com-

mittee in this aspect of the investigation.

The Committee returned to Mexico City and attempted

to locate June Cobb Sharp and Manuel Calvillo. (See Proce-

dural write-up Trip 2 Mexico City) The results of the Com-

Indent

mittee's work were as follows,

I The Mexican government

told the Committee that June Cobb Sharp received a tourist

permit, number 72781, on June 27, 1947 when she entered

Mexico through Nuevo Laredo.

She asked, but was deneid,

permission to represent the magazine, Modern Mexico. On

June 21, 1948, she received a courtesy permit, number 25556.

Furthermore, the Mexican government explained that she dis-

NW 66000 Docld:32271494 Page 51

D

---

## Page 52

- 32 -

NDEN

appeared in 1954 and never returned to Mexiclenisee Pro-

cedural Writeup Trip 2 Mexico City.

The Committee believes.

that there is a possibility that this information is incor-

rect. According to Ms. Cobb's CIA file she worked for the

agency as an asset in Mexico. from 1961 through 1966.

(CIA

Report, 1965, June Cobb file, 201-

): Elena also

stated that Ms. Cobb resided at her home in 1964. (Supra

P.

in 2) the mexican government told the committee

that Manuel Calvillo did not live at Cuohtemoc 877-5 as

informed them;

the Committee had stated.

Their agent-in-charge had spoken

at which Manuel Calvillo

to the superintendante the anartments for the ost the apartments

was belieued to reside,

the superent deters

twenty five years who said that no Manuel Calvillo had

ever resided there. When Committee

staffers gave the Mexi-

can government Calvillo's pen name, the Mexicans gave the

same answers.

(See Procedural Write Mexico City Trip ?.)

The Committee is quite certain that Mr. Calvillo lives at

at least unfil 1976

this address since it acquired the address from a recent

CIA document. (CIA Report, 1976, Manuel Calvillo file,

201-

The Committee believes that there is a possibility

that the Mexican government received orders from the Cen-

tral Intelligence Agency to refrain from aiding the Committee

with this aspect of its work. (See Procedural Write-up

Trip 2 Mexico City.)

NW 66000 Docld:32271494 Page 52

---

## Page 53

- 33 -

Cammittee. Aftempts

LacATE ElenA

Committee made every attempt possible to locate tire,

0 Jay 7,191

In ring, the e

telephaired

her publisher Mortiz in Mexico City and asked about her

whereabouts. (HSCA Staff Contact Report, 7/7/78, JFK

Document No. 10016) The publisher stated that Ms. Garro

was living in the Hotel S.A.C.E. in Madrid, Spain. (Ibia.)

The Committee staffer telephoned the Hotel in Spain and

spoke to the manager who told him that Ms. Garro had moved

out. (Ibid:) (HSCA Staff Contact Report, 7/7/78, JEK DO-

cument No.

On July 14, 1978 a Committee staffer

called her publisher again and

..was told to contact the

Mexican Embassy in Madrid, Spraing The publisher stated

priments

that all Elena's checks

were sent there because she did

not even trust her publisher with her address. (Ibid.)

(SCA Staff Contact Report, 7/14/78, JFK Document No.

9950)

The Committee stäffer called the Mexican Embassy in

Mepicin

Madrid, Spain and spoke to Adolfo Padilla, an employee of the Embessy

who stated that when Elena visited the Embassy a couple

of weeks before to pick up a check she looked financially

poor. (HSCA Staff Contact Report, 8/31/78, JFK Document

No. .

) He stated that when he asked Elena her new ad-

dress she declined to give one, stating that she would

return every few weeks to pick up checks and main.

gave

The staffer teft The Committee s

number and a message

asking Elena to telephone the Committee collect. (Ibid.)

NW 66000 Docld:32271494 Page 53

---

## Page 54

- 34-

On September 5, 1978, Elena Garro called the

Committee staffer. When the staffer explained that the

Committee wished to talk to her in person and would pay

both her daughter's and her travel from Spain, Ms. Garro

asked why she should believe the staffer was who he

fo be ?.

claimed. (HSCA Staff Contact Report, 9/5/78, JFK Document

The staffer asked Ms. Garro to call back

colect in the next few days when he could explain to her

when and where she could receive a Committee letter deli-

neating why the Committee wished to interview her. (Ibid.)

The Committee wrote the letter and made arrangements with

the State Department for. a letter to be hand-delivered

to Elena at the American Embassy in Spain.

(See attached

letter: also, HSCA Staff Contact

Report,: 9/5/78, JFK. Docu-

ment No:

on September 7, 1978, Elena Garro called the Committee

staffer and asked when the letter would arrive. (HSCA Staff

Contact Report, 9/7/78, JFK Document No.

The Com-

mittee staffer explained that the letter could be gotten

on Monday, September 11, 1978 from George Phelan, the

Counsellor for Consular Affairs at the American Embassy.

(Ibid.) Ms. Garro stated that she would get the letter

on September 11, 1978 and follow our suggestions. (Ibid.)

Ms. Garro never

went to the American Embassy in

Spain to get the Committee's letter. (HSCA Staff Contact

NW 66000 Docld:32271494 Page 54

---

## Page 55

- 35-

Report, 9/15/78, JFK Document No.

pickeys

The Committee,

hoping she would semit the letter before her flight

date, proceeded to purchase tickets for both Elena and

her daughter. (HSCA Staff Contact Report, 9/12/78, JFK

didnotget

Document NO.

) Elena never get the tickets at

the airport. (HSCA Staff Contact Report, 9/15/78, JFK

was not

Document No.

\ The Committee

nevEr regained

con-

bu Mide faz

tact with her.an

The Committee also investigated whether Thomas'

"selection out" was related

to the Oswald case. After

interviewing his widow, Ms. Cynthia Thomas,

the Committee

has concluded that his dismissal was unrealted. INSCA

Staff interview of Cynthia Thomas,

, P.

, JFK

Document No.

)

How Select

un desissies

In sum, this Committe as not teen able tho

onfin the evedence that comld indicate that the Hawey

Occaned, on

me night stle he was in Weters, attenled a

"twist party"

at the home? Raken Duan Havent, the brither.

the cannelle d arcastin

"Two bestich barkeng logs.

NW 66000 Docld:32271494 Page 55

---

