# DOCID-32331269

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/10/201

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90096-10215

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-2989-85

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM: MM

. TO: HQ

TITLE:

Released under the John F. Kennedy

issassination Records Collection Act o

1992 '44 USC 2107 Notel. Case#NW

56000 Date: 11-03-2021

DATE: 03/26/1962

PAGES:

20

SUBJECTS :

CHARLES TOURINE

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/20/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS : RPT

v9.1

NW 66000 Docld:32331269 Page 1

28

---

## Page 2

MM 92-106

MIAMI

AT MIAMI, FLORIDA

Will continue Its investigation relating to the

activities of the subject in this Division.

- ADMINISTRATIVE -

It is noted that the period of instant report

exceeds 90 days.

This was occasioned by the fact subject

was not in this Division from April, 1961, to December,

1961; however, sources were continually contacted to

determine subject's present whereabouts and

activities.

- INFORMANTS -

MM T-1

MM T-2

MM T-3

MM T-4

MM T-5

MM B-6

MM T-7

MM T-8

Miami PCI PETE CATALDO

Miami PCI JOHN OLIVER

Miami 764 PC

Former Legat Havana, Cuba

Inspector FREDERICK HAINS,

District Attorney Office, New

York County, New York

BARNEY RUDITSKY - employee

George Jessel Travel Agency,

Los Angeles

Miami 665-C

New York 3508 PC

- C

COVER

PAGE

NW 66000 Docld:32331269 Page 2

---

## Page 3

. "

MM 92-106

MM T-9

MM T-10

MM T-11

- *

--

COVER- PAGE

NW 66000 Docld:32331269 Page 3

Miami 606 PC

WFO 1108-C

WFO 1069-C

---

## Page 4

FD-201 (Rev. 3-2-59)

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JU. ICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Copy tọ:.

1 - USA, Miami (Attention: WILLIAM KENNEY)

Report of:

Date:

WILLIAM A. HAMILTON

March 26, 1962

Field Office File No.:

92-106

Title: .

Character: •

CHARLES TOURINE

DECLASSIFIDD BY SPRMACEN

ON 11-1-94

ANTI-RACKETEERING

Synopsis:

Office: Miami, Florida

Bureau File No.: 92-2989

PPROFA IATE AGENCIES

„NO FIELD OVICES

ADVISED

ROUTINE

SLIP(5)

DATE

Subject has been absent from Miami from April, 1961, to latter

part of

December, 1961. Traveled through Europe during summer

of 1961, where he was alleged to have swindled legitimate

businessmen in card games.

Arrived in London, England, March

6, 1962, and returned to Miami on 3/15/62.

Allegealy accompanied

GEORGE RAFT to London and purpose for subject's visit not

yet established, but believed relates to gambling operations

either in London or one of the British possessions.

CONSIDERED ARMED AND DANGEROUS.

- P -

5

DETAILS:

Lon insoleite

5512 5

BACKGROUND

3 30/71

MM T-I advised on October 10, 1901, that CHARLES

TOURINE is still out of the city, that

Is Miami Beach, Florida,

and source heard that TOURINE had made

a trip to Europe

and is now residing in New York City.

This same source previously

advised that TOURINE

had left the Mland area in Apr11, 1961.4

92-2989-85

This document contains neither recommendations

nor conclusions

of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to your agency; it and

its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

59009-19974

NW 66000 Docld:32331269 Page 4

---

## Page 5

MM 92-106

This same source advised on November 21, 1962,

that from every indication TOURINE waS

not going to return

to Miami, Florida, and that TOURINE was attempting to break

his lease at the Beaux Arts Apartments, North Bay Village,

Florida, and to sell his

furniture.

This same source advised on December 22, 1961,

that TOURINE did return to Miami, Florida, and has

up residence in his Apartment in North Bay Village.

According to this source, TOURINE appeared to be recovering

from some type of illness.

On January 5, 1962,

accoraing to this source,

TOURINE only stayed in Miami

for approximately one week

and returned to New York City.

On January 23, 1962, this source stated that

TOURINE returned to Miami on January 20, 1962, and again

left on January 22, 1962, for New York City.

MM I-2 advised on March 1, 1962, that TOURINE

departed from Miami, destination unknown.:

On March 16, this same source advised TOURINE

returned to Miami Beach and is presently residing in his

Beaux Arts Apartments. According to this source, TOURINE

returned on the evening of March 15, 1962.

TRAVEL - EUROPE

on August 23, 1961, New Scotland Yard, London,

England, received information from a source that two

American

nationals had recently arrived in England and

- 2 -

92-2989-85

NW 66000 Docld:32331269 Page 5

---

## Page 6

MM 92-106

were staying at the Claridge Hotel, Brook Street, W. 1,

London, England. These Americans

arrived from Italy and

it was determined while in Italy they had obtained 20,000

pounds from an Emminent businessman by gambling, playing

double-back gin rummy.

Further, these Americans had

taken another large sum from this same businessman at

Claridge Hotel.

According to New Scotland Yard this

businessman did not wish publicity and refused to cooperate

with the police.

The two Americans were identiffed as

CHARLES TOURINE and ANISSIN GEORGE VAINTRAUB. UX

According to New Scotland Yard, there is little

doubt that the association between VAINTRAUB and TOURINE

is one of card-cheater and strongarm man to enforce

payment by any reticent customer.

Scotland Yard advised

no action was possible against these two individuals

while they were in England. l

According to Scotland Yard these two individuals

On November 24, 1961, the Central Bureau,

Italian Criminäl Police, Rome, Italy,

advised as follows

ANISSIN GEORGE VAINTRAUB and CHARLES TOURINE,

U.S. citizens, lodged at the Hotel Pace in Monte-

catini, Italy, from June 27 to July 9, 1961, and

Montecatini during the night of July 11-12, 1961,

with an unidentified woman, with whom he is suspected

of having engaged in immoral relations.

TOURINE

gave no other

reason to suspect his activity in

Montecatini.(Wd

- 3 -

92-2989-85

00255-10513

NW 66000 Docld:32331269 Page 6

---

## Page 7

MM 92-106

While at the above hotels, VAINTRAUB and TOURINE

took thermal baths for which the area is

famous.

They

were not subject to any police, action. l

TOURINE was also at the Hotel Pace from June 24

to July 3, 1960, during which time he took therapeutic

mud baths.

The treatments provoked slight damage to

TOURINE,

iocal assoclation. (U received compensation from the

During their stay in the above area, neither

VAINTRAUB or TOURINE gave any impression of remaining

in the area permanently.

been In Italy since tuit, I96i What known to have

On December 14, 1961, the Police Judiciaire,.

surete Nationale, paris, france, advised as folLows USA

The results of stops placed on TOURINE and

VAINTRAUB during their period of stay in France as of

December 8, 1961, was insignificant.

The Police Judiciaire advised, however, that it

has been ascertained that these two individuals actually

arrived at Le Bourget Airport en route from London,

England, on August 24, 1961. VAINTRAUB went to the Prince

de Galles Hotel, 33 Avenue George V, where he stayed from

August 24 until August 29, 1961. (Ulf

following

During his stay at thys hotel he made the

telephone caLled

1)

To Miss MARGUERITE KOECHLIN, telephone no.

88-52-56, Nice, France;

To Mr. JOSEPH ROHR, telephone 88-52-26, at

Nice,

France;

To telephone number GUD 2-6575, New York City.

- 4 -

42-2989-85

NW 66000 Docld:32331269 Page 7

---

## Page 8

MM 92-106

According to the Police Judiciaire, subject

VAINTRAUB reportedly telephoned the above New York telephone

number from the Prince de Galles

Hotel, Paris, France, on

August 25 and 28, 1962. @(U)

The above French service advised that Miss KOECHLIN,

born November 14, 1080, at Belfort, France, is a former

American national who became a naturalized French citizen

by decree on March 2, 1956, and resides at 33 Boulevard

Victor Hugo, Nice, France.

This person has resided in

France for approximately twelve years and leads a

respectable life.

She has sufficient capital in a bank

account and to all intents and purposes appears to be

retired. She visits the United States rather frequently

where she reportedly has relatives.

She is not known to

have any police record and enjoys

an excellent reputation. (U)y

According to the Police Judiciaire, Mr. JOSEPH ROHR

was born April 24, 1897, at Crzenylany, Poland.

He is an

Austrian national

who is married and has one child.

resides at 16 Boulevard, Gambetta, Nice. Since the date

of his arrival inFrance in 1938, It appears that he has

not exercised any profession.

by an Aunt, Mrs. MARGARET ERBER, who reportedly is the head

of a corset manufacturing company at "1683 Street, Brooklyn,

New York,

as well as by his wife's family who are reportedly

very wealthy.

in the illegal sale of

In 1953, "emblems."

ROHR has resided in Nice since 1942 and frequents

the Buffa Cafe

situated in

the vicinity of his residence.

8(4)

ROHR has no known criminal record.

departure from the Prince de Galles Hotel on August 29, 1961,

no indication

Paris area.

"i) been received that he has returned to the

-5 -

92-2989-85

d000-12512

NW 66000 Docld:32331269 Page 8

---

## Page 9

MM 92-106

With respect to subject TOURINE, the Police

Judiciaire

advised

that all trace of him was lost after

arrival at le Bourget Airport on August 24, 1961 uSi

MM I-3 advised on December 15; 1961, he heard

that TOURINE is back in New York City;

that he is interested

in securing a part of any gambling casino which may start

up in the Caribbean area.

toured the gambling places in Great Britain, France and

Italy with a Chemin-de-fer dealer out of New York City.

This dealer is supposed to be one of the best in the

United States, but he never heard the person's name.

TRAVEL-LONDON-CURRENT

New

Scotland Yard, London, England, advised CHARIES

TOURINE and one PAUL BELLO, arrived London, England, on

March 6, 1962, from New York City on Pan American Flight

54, and

hold

return open dated tickets to New York City

Loat a toke to

plus substantial cash.

Both these individuals indicated

intentions of staying at the Dorchester Hotel in London,

England, but according to new scotlana lara,

the

Dorchester

Hotel has no record of these individuals.

MM T-4 advised that PAUL BELLO is originally

BELLO's current address is 2215 Adams Street,

Hollywood, Florida.

The files of the Passport Office, Washington,

BeLLo, we craned are telene to ronandin

regarding PAUL

REVIEWED BY BEWUFX TASK FORCE

ON 10/13/97 no/lat

- 6 -

IT RELEASE IN FULL

RELEASE IN PART

I TOTAL DENIAL

92-2989-85

NODAO-1000

NW 66000 Docld:32331269 Page 9

---

