# DOCID-32397032

## Page 1

JEK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER: 104-10429-10090

RECORD SERIES : JEK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

RUSS HOLMES WORK FILE

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM

TO

• TITLE

(SEVENTH DEPARTMENT, KGB- JANUARY 1962-JANUARY

1964) - SUMMARY

DATE : 01/01/1900

PAGES : 1

SUBJECTS : NOSENKO.

DOCUMENT TYPE

CLASSIFICATION

PORES

TOP

SECRET

RESTRICTIONS

1B

CURRENT STATUS :

RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 12/13/98

COMMENTS ON RACE RIE IE 42 PA2 104-65350-10156 104-65350-10156S545

BY ARRB 20 JUL 98).

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

65990 Date: 11-01-2021

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10429-10090

NW 65990 Docld:32397032 Page 1

---

## Page 2

Feb 19b8

Top Secret

(SEVENTH DEPARTMENT - January 1962-January 1964)

Operational Activities - July 1962-January 1964: Summary

To substantiate his claims to having served as Deputy

Chief of the Seventh Department during this period, NOSENKO

describes KGB involvement in the recruitment of SVENCHANSKIY,

the

investigations

of SLESINGER, OSHALD,

and of former KGB officer CHEREPANOV,

his discovery that SHUBIN was a GRU agent, and his assignment

to Geneva.

Even if NOSENKO learned of the operations as

he described and they were as he described (there are substan-

tial reasons why they might have been conducted by KGB

elements other than the Seventh Department), they are atypical

with respect to NOSENKO's own description of Seventh Depart-

ment operations.

They do not accurately characterize,

as

NOSENKO claims, KGB counterintelligence operations against

tourists, and thus do not substantiate his Seventh Department

service.

NOSENKO's explanations for his assignment to

Geneva in 1964

are no more plausible than for his earlier

assignment there in 1962.

NOSENKO has asserted that he was

not a lieutenant colonel as the temporary duty authorization

indicated, but a captain, a rank incongruous with a Deputy

Chief of Department and one from which he presumably would

have been promoted as he assumed the senior KGB positions

which he claimed to have held.

Lastly, his credibility is

diminished by his assertion that he invented the recall

telegram (nevertheless

apparently confirmed by SCOTCH) to

prompt immediate CIA acceptance of his defection.

KGB Counterintelligence Operations

Among American

Tourists

1962-1963

Because of his position as a Deputy Chief,

then First

Deputy Chief of the Seventh Department, NOSENKO claimed

awareness of what the KGB posture was with respect to

326

Top Secret

TS No. 197124

Copy

F81-035.xx1)gientyno..iss

Denied

• NW 65990 Docld:32397032_Page 2

---

