# DOCID-32405918

## Page 1

104-10165-10148

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

65997 Date: 10-28-2021

CLASSIDY TO FILE NO..

х-ВЕт то плце по. -

INT 7100

якт. то волост !

DESTROr O sIc.

16-10

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

34 SECRET

SOM/URIT NOTITIED

AIR DOMINICO

ACTION

WHICS ERD COPY

ADVANCE COPY

TArO

BLE VR, WHE

CI/CA

TOTAL COPIES

REPRCIUETION

PROMIBITED

0rrro D

UNIT

TINE

н/ 1950÷00

ECRET 2721552.

21-10

JAMEDIATE VAVE INFO PRIORITY DER CITE SDOMJS71A

REF: VAVE 5328 6R49550)*

27 Nạs 65 lH1 4! 1 53

1. FYI: DURING DAY 27 AUEUST INCREASINS INDICATION

THAI IMBERI AND GNR CRONIES INTEND TO FINOUNCE AT 29 AUGUST

RALLY THAT THEY WILL NOT RPT NOI ACCEPT SETILEMENT OFFER

Bi JAS. PROZABEY WILL INDICATE WILLINGNESS TO ACCEPT

ORIGINAL TERMS OFFERED AND ACCEPTEE 5Y THEM ON 15 AUGUST.

/ 20 AMCASSADOR BUNKER HAS REITEPATED TO STATION HIS

DESIRE

THAT ANCORE-2 TRAvEL SDOM.

BUT AMCORE-2 SHOULD BE

VARNED FRIOR DEPARTURE THAT HE IS NOT RPI NOT TO ACCEPT

3 0 AUS ISSj

FOSITION ON PODIUES UNLESS IMBERT INTENDS AUFOUNGEMENT

FiC=

IMMEDIATE ACCEPTANCE OF SETTLEMENT. IN FACT IT HOPED

ABUORE-2 WILL AL STAY AYSY FROM RALLY COKFLETENT AND

EY MAKE HIS DISAPPOINIMENT KHOVI, SHOULD TABERT NOT ACCEPT.

IS ArCEPTANCE. IS PLANSE?,

AMCORE -2 WILL PROSABLY BE ASKED MAKE

SPEECH.

3O IT NOX APPEARS RALLY MIGHI BECOME GISANTIC ANTI-

COMMIE MANIFESTATION. REALIZE HOW TEMPTING THIS WILL BE

•TO AMCORE-2. FOR THIS REASON HOPE WAVE CAN CONTACT ANT

SECREA

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Onty

Do Not Reproduse

31BR

NW 65987 Docld:32405918 Page 1

---

## Page 2

104-10165-10148

SECREL

IN 41153

EBPHASIZE AGAIN TO AMCORE-2 MOX IMPORTANT IT IS THAT HE NÓT

PARTICIPATE IN RALLY UNLESS ACCEPTANCE IS PLANNED. REALIZE

IT MAY BE DIFFICULT FOR AMCORE-2 TO MAKE CONTACT WITH

16-10

STATION IMEDIATELY, THUS AMCGRE-2 SHOULD BE PREPARED ON

HIS OWN TO MAKE EVERY ARGUMENT WITH IMEERT FOR ANNOUNCING

ACCEPTANCE.

4. WHILE HE APPRECIATES KUARY ASSISTANCE, BUNKER,

•A PATIENT BUT STRONGWILLED MAN, WOULD BE VERY BITTER WITH

KÜBARK SHOULD AMCORE-2 AID AND ABET IMBERT IN ANY ACTION

TO DELAY INSTALLATION OF PROVISIONAL GOVERNMENT, WHICH IS

CDYOKE'S NUMBER ONE FRIORITY IN DOMREP.

SECRET * RE. AMCORE -Z

8.": 6714 5329 FYI 27 IMBERT ENR 29 NOT RPT NOT ACCEPT OAS 16

BUNKER AMCCRE-2 - 2 NOT RPT NOT TO -2 AS B) NOT ACCEPT -2 COMMIE

-2=2 NOT PARTICIPATE -2 - 2 KUBARK - 2 CDYOKE'S DOMPEP

BT

SECRET

NW 65987 Docld:32405918 Page 2

.. . ....

I/BR

---

