# DOCID-32287849

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/7/2015

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

FBI

124-10198-10125

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3171-1899

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

ROEMER, WILLIAM F. JR.

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

Heleased under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Flecords Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

65994 Date: 11-01-2021

DATE: 09/27/1966

' PAGES:

14

SUBJECTS :

SGI, SURVEILLANCE, ASSOC, MCGUIRE, PHYLLIS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

04/03/1998

OPENING CRITERIA :

INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

NW 65994 Docld:32287849 Page 1

161

---

## Page 2

9-17-65)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

CHICAGO

TITLE OF CASE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

CHICAGO

DATE

9/27/66

REPORT MADE BY

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

6/14 - 9/19/66

SAMUEL M. GIANCANA, aka

SA WILLIAM F. ROEMER, JR.

CHARACTER OF CASE

AR

REFERENCE: RepUrt it SO WILLIAM F. ROENER, JR. dated 6/21/66,

P-

TYPED B'

1rs

ENCLOSURES

TO BUREAU (2)

Enclosed for the Bureau are two copies of letterhead

memorandum setting

forth characterization of informants utilized

in instant report. (V

Case has been:

1g quet one year it Yes

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

3.

Bureau (92-3171) (Enets. 9)

44484 Sessi

→ No; Pending prosecution over six months

→ Yes: & No

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

92-3171-/899 2661

1 - USA, Chicago

2 - Chicago (92-349)

Agency

Request Recd.

Date Fwd.

How Fid.

By

Dissemination Record of Attached Roport

C. AAG. Criminal Division,

Organized Crime and Racketcering

Section, Recm_

3

195C

Notations

STAI

NW 65994 Docld:32287849 Page 2

---

## Page 3

CG 92-349

LEAD

CHICAGO

AT CHICAGO, ILLINOIS

report the activities

INFORMANTS

continue to follow and

/

Source

T-1,

PCI MARY. KAY

MC ALLISTER

T-2,

CG 6855-C-TE

T-3

CG 6621-C

T-4,

PCI ARTHUR MILLER

T-5,

MICHAEL CARROLL,

Investigator,

District Attorney's

Office,

Denver, Colorado

T- 6,

CG 6690-C-TE

I-T,

CG 6533-0

Date of Contact and

Contacting Agent

On numerous occasions during

June, July, August, and

September,

to SA WILLIAM

F. ROEMER, JR.

7/18/66, to SA RUSSELL R

GIRSCH

9/7/66, to

SA JOHN R. BASSETT

9/9/66, to

SA EUGENE I. SATHER

8/17/66, to

SAs of Denver Office

T-8

MI 623 - C-TE

6/28/66, to

SA LEENARD A. WOLF

6/5/66, 6/14/66, to

SA VINCENT L. INSERRA and

MAX R. FRITSCHEL

6/16/66,

to

SAs of Milwaukee Office.

B*

COVER PAGE

1108- 10198

NW 65994 Docld:32287849 Page 3

---

## Page 4

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

92-349

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Chicago, Illinois

September 27, 1966

SAMUEL M. GIANCANA

ANTI-RACKETEERING

Reference is made to report of special Agent Willian

"• Roemer, or. dated and captioned as above.U,

CHARACTERIZATION OF INFORMANTS

Chicago T-i is an individual who is in a position

to observe the residence

almost continuous basis. (U) Glancana on what amounts to an

Chicago T-2 is a close associate of a

top leader

of organized crime in the Chicago area. (U)

Chicago T-3 is

an associate

organized crime in the Chicago area (U)of some members of

Chicago I-4 is an indivdual, who by reason of his

employment, is in a position to observe occurances in the

vicinity of Giancana's residence in Oak Park, Illinois.(U

Chicago T-5 is an individual closely associated

with Phyllis Mc Guire. (U)

Chicago T-6 is an individual associated

with

some

members of organized crime in the Chicago area. (U)

Chicago T-7 is an individual who is in a position

to observe occurances on almost a continuous basis at the

former headquarters of Giancana, now known as Giannotti's

Restaurant and Lounge. (U)

ale: 515286049

COPIES DESTROYRA

This document contains neither

recommendations

893 MAY 24. 147210r conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the

FBI and is leaned to your agency; it and its contents

are not to be distributed outside your agency.

NW 65994 Docld:32287849 Page 4

---

## Page 5

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

92-349

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Chicago, Illinois

September 27, 1966

SAMUEL M. GIANCANA

ANTI-RACKETEERING

Reference is made to report of Special Agent Willian

• Roemer, Jr. dated and captioned as above.(U)

CHARACTERIZATION OF INFORMANTS

Chicago I-l is an individual who is in a position

to observe the residence of Giancana on what amounts to an

almost continuous basis. (v)

Chicago I-2 is a close associate of a top leader

of organized crime in the Chicago area. (U)

chicago T-3 is an associate of some members o1

organized crime in the Chicago area.(v)

Chicago T-4 is an indivdual, who by reason of his

employment, is in a position to observe occurances in the

vicinity of Giancana's residence in Oak Park, Illinois.(U)

Chicago T-5 is an individual closely associated

with Phyllis Mc Guire. (4)

Chicago T-6 is an individual

associated

with some

members. of organized crime in the Chicago area.(U

Chicago T-7 is an individual who is in a position

to observe occurances on almost a continuous basis at the

former headquarters of Giancana, now known as Giannotti's

Restaurant and Lounge (U)

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

SIDED

DATE4/24/84 67585 RPG/BI

This document contains neither recommendations

nor conclusions of

the FBI. It is the property of the

FBI and is loaned to your agency; it and its contents.

are not to be distributed outside your agency.

NW 65994 Docld:32287849 Page 5

---

