# DOCID-32398992

## Page 1

JEK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER

RECORD SERIES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

: CIA

: 104-10110-10255

JFK

80T01357A

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM

: CHIEF, ALIEN AFFAIRS STAFF

TO : FILE

TITLE

: IMMIGRATION AND NATURALIZATION SERVICE, RELATIONS WITH.

DATE

: 01/20/1960

PAGES.

2

SUBJECTS

IMMIGRATION

ARTIME BUESA, M

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER

CLASSIFICATION

: SECRET

RESTRICTIONS : 1A

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE

OF LAST REVIEW

: 03/03/94

COMMENTS

:JFK40: F7A : 1994.03.03.14:51:09:810028

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act o

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note]. Case#:NW

65924 Date: 10.26.2021

[R1

- ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10110-10255

NW 65924 Docld:32398992 Page 1

---

## Page 2

STANDARD FORM NO. 64

scuit!

Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO

File

DATE:

20 January 1400

FROM

Chief, Alien Affairs Staff

SUBJECT:

Immigration and Naturalization Service, Relations with

(Miami, Florida)

1. On 15 January 1900, at 0900 hours, Mr. Robert Reynolas,

WH/ III( Caribbean), advised that Bernie Reichardt had telephonically

informed him that the owner oi the impounded vessel had suggested

the possibility of INS providing a letter to the owner of the

vessel stating that the Service had inspected the vessel on its

arrival and found no passengers.

2. Mr. Reichardt also reported that he had informally

queried the District Director, I&NS, Miami, on the possibility

of securing such a letter, however, he had no idea that the matter

would be referred to the I&NS Central Office in Washington, D. C.

Reynolds readily agreed that the Service could be requested to

provide such a letter as, in fact, we had made arrangements with

the Service for the entry of these individuals in the United States.

3. In response to further inquiries, Mr. Reynoids stated that

on the arrival of these two individuals, the entry of the aliens

into the United States had not been cleared with the Office of

Security as called for by Regulation 50-110. The paities concerned

(wno arrived in December 1y59) were Manuel ARTIME and Roberto VARONA.

The OS Indices contained no record of VARONA.

A file on ARTIME

(7210830) reflects that the Wi Division requested nis polygraph in

Florida and SSD provided an escort to accompany him to New Orleans

in order to enabie him to obtain a visa to Mexico.

He did secure

the visa and is allegedly now in Mexico. The SSD had informed the

AAS of the fact that they had been requested to provide such an

escort and in fact, with regard to ine endeavor of the Wa Division

to obtain a visa from Mexico for the subject, on or about 15 Decem-

ber 1y5y, this Staff had received intormation from Mi. Richara

Haberstroh that Mr. Reicharät had contacted the District Director

in Miami, Florida,

and requested that the Service provide a letter

which would indicate that ARTIME would be readmissivie into he

United Stares

The purpose of thai letter was to satisiy a require-

ment levied by the Mexican Consul in Miami before they would grant

vise to ARTIME.

Mr. Reynolds was informed that the Service could

10222032

wanted

NW 65924 Docld:32398992 Page 2

---

## Page 3

not provide such a letter.

The fact that Reichardt had unilaterally

requested

such a letter from the District Office of Immigration was

called to the attention of Colonel Edwards and he telephonically

intormed the Chief, WH Division, that the Immigration Service would

strongly prefer if such request: were levied directly to the Central

Office and not by CIA representatives in the field.

4.

At 10:45 a.m. on 15. January, the Acting Director of

He suggested that the full story be requested

in writing from the WH Division with regard to this recent arrival,

and also that the WH Division put in writing any requests for sup-

port by the Immigration Service in the form of letters to assist

the owner of the vessel which has been impounded.

5.

At 2:20 p.m. Reynolds was so informed. At that time he

inquired as to whether I&NS would provide a letter supporting the

position taken by the Captain of the vessel. The Captain's position

is that he discovered two stowaways aboard on the day in question,

and upon arrival in the United States, turned the stowaways over to

the I&NS. Reynolds was informed that it is doubtful if the CIA

would issue such a request to Immigration, however, he was requested

to submit his request in writing to the Director of Security.

6. On 18 January, Mr. Rod Landreth, of Mr. Reynold's Office,

advised that he had prepared a letter as requested and will forward

it to this Office through channels.

William J.

Cotter

OS/AAS/WJC:es 20. Jan 60

SECRET

NW 65924 Docld:32398992 Page 3

---

