# DOCID-32392950

## Page 1

Date: 02/21/05

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER : 104-10414-10366

RECORD SERIES :

JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

RUSS HOLMES WORK FILE

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM : COS MEXICO CITY

TO : CHIEF,

KURIOT, CHIEF, WH DIVISION

TITLE

: DISPATCH-OPERATION MONTHLY REPORT 1 - 31 OCTOBER 1963.

DATE

11/14/1963

PAGES

3

SUBJECTS : JFK ASSASSINATION

KURIOT

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

RESTRICTIONS

1B

CURRENT STATUS

: RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 07/07/04

COMMENTS: JFK-RH07 : F133

: 20040324-1064416

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note]. Case#:NW

65990 Date: 11-01-2021

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10414-10366

NW 65990 Docld:32392950 Page 1

---

## Page 2

TO

INFO.

DISPATCK

Chios, BRIOT

Chief, WI Division

CLASSiFICATICHi

SECRET

Arta: Paotographic Branab

FROM

Chief of Station, Madco City

SUBJECT

operational konthly Raport 1 - 31 October 1963

ACTION REQUIRED. REFERENCES

Action: None; for your Infosestion.

PROCESSING ACTION

MARKED FOR INDEXING

NO INUSING REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFICO DESK

CAN JUDGE INDEXING

MICROFILA

Presanted below is a reporting of the operational and support actinitien

Gregory D. PARITH for the above mentioned paried.

I. SABRAL, SUNBARY, DE ACTINIES

Two photographie operational assignants sere roquanted of PARATI

during tiba nosth of October.

Station sapport consisted of the follaring suppo

The sarnicing of tages KuRtal requests for information and nateria.

MACHART

vas supported on evo audio oparations at botola la Mesieo City. PARGIS rea

requested by the Military Attache Office and tho Calet of Statlon to trala Am

personal in pbotograpay.

Station print production Paished sith 3,102 pitts

il good part of bich sas done by PARtIt's trgines Louda F. KAShlal. Outside

support coilvity was high, photographie basshouses coranag Soviet and Satell

cabaasies produced norm? coverage sith the excontion of the linous beastouse

which has the Y13? trigner devies to cover the adiltional entranes at tbe Cul

Eabaasy.

2. ILL

Hone.

Ruo trips are pendlag for Moronbar or Daesaber,

tone ta Monter.

enta the otiser to Veracri.

3. TRAININO

Co. 10 October 1953, at the request cs tha Embassy illitary Attaci

OffIca, PARAMa conferred vith Calonel Fubay ond the Chlot of Station ragurair

ice irprovnent of the amy photographie laboratory, Colonel Inosy montiered

several serious probama conceraing this faclilty, loB, the separal runder

(Continued)

Attachnents: As sistod in part 3 A & 3 B.

Distiibution:

05 - HiD w/a att

CROSS REFERENCE TO

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

F0301-22782

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

DATE

14 Horanber 1963

HQS FILE NUMBER

50-6-18

LIERODE

NW. 65990 Docld:32392950 Page 2

---

## Page 3

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION

33635F

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NO.

SA-LANCE

minatring tisi facility.

Es colonal wis as'un llientratico the lallontagi

1s1 Laboratory un einm elebt acii et 3um 11a thom by huny teo mooi bre

sonoûna semina the elita solls of file firut in the fiziry bata poco 1o fila

dorologos sales serianel the esira latai se 13is.

Con estonel posed tas

Issibilisy os insing bis sus auloged and suistos by tas sentita. Sto Chios

ca station itated that ton Statten could sat mles pistanale sport to da

mo of hin stali 1s shotoghio racentro PARNas bagms ibis tratsaty ca 28

Autober 1955. foranded an atrochant A Su le tralalzo russ ca Sero ?. Dall,

Vato temato

marsing.

Ca 13 Dotober 1903, the Dapany Chier of draston inatzuczed PIELE!

to mes vita tho local tal. Custou agai uno ma roupastisa ahotortis eusporto

amera, visa tha dent socst, Itatosraçhod assumats at a 20tal 1s Masleo City.

De docenta saro to De usel de ortagme spalsel narcoties commery tho vere

venhdd it lario, Fann by mata outs. Da scarters had intthele

300s930 20n 0011l0 baga el carus aerale

graga a metlas teters IlraRl and tun noka spenta sua voro to nest i the

ao tom atas el ludon tlti, lus bon canors conpontena ¿ndre sas pood do

sho operstion Miticasa da sargata dia nos amar, che soll os 35m f1la seo

puded e tala oprailas as e prestico enunciat.

MILEN ELTON

Ao la 30 7 nad 5 Ostobar 1963, PAMICI seo negueted to nastas Eure

C. MRuD in maltoring a recolver st un Il loretal et a batel ta lesteo City.

The papose of thie enasatica mes to resord comunations te 3100 er Ilo emiaial

maity tuo nient bo saying ni tho sarget miie. male suita tao au atougini ay

FORMA

10-57 530

(10)

En l Ortener 1963, Expla una regnanted by the suation te sa

the lione safohmuse on the eruntug of 8 actobes

tho spentos separtes that

tone sens so ineation of dacuptica en tio fare al 1z.

So Pa 8, 19, 21 Gna 12 October 1903, PARIA van ragnestos tO 133201

Tono le RISOTTO in nultONINg 3 rocolver as in la locatod la s bocal ta iladel

City, Tre paron of this opiration son te monita coursudicas batanea a

F1O1$1A1 INTATTETE CASO OPTION aDL No agOI onl possIbly to redori ecatorsationa

basious 411s astat, nod a Calcon tergus il this tersaù egroal to nat tua assat at

hia hotel roon the aperi um morittirs ci this antio cremaios.

Do Da 17 Cotober 1963, PAnaIK sarested e ora kour oserlonel photo

manale esistina to son station cars catiooni.

#oloroe subjecta: Dumal taotenanhio toboraio munst dono do the Ebation:

elairatira pastoempoy ustsa boiy concoalasa turicas:: photoragiao trucia:

tentaso Ibotocrapty covering Sorlet mi intellite cataccles; aior coerena

kainz both tho innagort canera mos tho intito tram, conytos devices unial curia

te ned do care orticem to rastoangi sateral uten it vaud 2o laganicai to

which la dono both at the itation nod it Kunto, for Station eurport sparations.

In cantian, su activliy uns discuni crinaly inclatlog as peritica et ba

ico oi carbora and donalogaros sha brlasing vie denulidod visa i decorsiion

oa tho doreloset de a 37 mosas inins the spray isthed of encileation lich

manject discused durins the brasias, uns sopporre lu a ateplay ed photomizata

opriat ni printa tasm in aystational coccition.

USE PREVIOUS EDITION.

CLASSIFICATION

REPLACES FORMS

51-28, 51.28A AND 51.29

SECHEL

CONTINUED

PAGE NO.

2H0

NW 65990 Docld:32392950 Page 3

---

## Page 4

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION

BEORET

Dis.

SYMBOL AND NO.

12864-23462

Du 21. CEtober 1963, FAMATE pontosmial 58t inano, ustne tho

Teorünk to fulfIll a nuthly Winfe Dropsusant for the thial el Stutter,

Mexico C197.

As son

+1003

Ao Isaber of eputional target surveys conglatod during tha scutti lo

E mous al rn aros eepleted during too sartas 0.

•E. Pictogragale equizman: sand for opezalianal sos: 0.

En Asbos al poople trainal in photomghlo tootnigues/emigant: 2r

MONTIC LYIN A JOEL ERRORED

As Mock and balts: le Joba

3o. Rotal p812t8: 3,1020

2. 35ms Heroellas 400 Porta

3o Bia cassations

60.

do 120 see nil the &

5. Diers slim fall types) a

6. Sanellenacis: 0.

Do Colesa o 1aba.

to WatCy Statten Buysort

2o Fog pal senlar 2 letters cuened end resented.

VILLAN E. CITEIS

10.57 53a

USE PREVIOUS EDITION.

REPLACES FORMS

51-28. 51-28A AND 51-29

WHICH ARE OBSOLETE

CLASSIFICATION

PAGE NO

Ruston

CONTINUED

NW 65990

Docld:32392950 Page 4

---

