# DOCID-32373952

## Page 1

104-10194-10000

Heleased under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection act of

992(44 USC 2107 Note]. Case#:NW

56987 Date: 10-29-2021

SECRET

(then

filled Ins

FITNESS REPORT

IMPLOTTE SERIAL HUMDER

264216-i it!"'

SECTION A TAELS 11 12542 Are

GENERAL

2. DATE OF MIRTH TS. SEX

D. SD

2 Nov 1708

M

GS-11

D

6. OFFICIAL POSITION TITLE

(herations Officer

•. CHECH IXI TYRE OF APNOINTMENI

TIMeSHARY

enirtlüne • Section C)

7. OFF/DIVINE OF ASSIONMENTS. CURRENTSTATION

DDP W-D 1

Mexico CIty, Mexico

TO. CHECK EXI TYPE OF REPORT

REASSIGNMENT DUNCAVISOR

REASBIGNMENT EMPLOYEE

SPECIAL (SPRCHY):

11, DATE REPORT DUE IN J.P.

32. November 1964

SECTION 8

W. Wook.

12, REPORTIMO PERIDO (From- BU-)

1 October 1963 - 30 September 1964

PERFORMANCE EVALUATION

Perfumanco rongos from whally inodoquate to slightly loss than sorislactory.

A rating in this cologary roquiros

nositive remodial action. The naturo of the action could range tram counseling, la further training, la placing on

probarion, to roassignmant or la sopuration.

Describo oction taken of proposad In Soction C.

A • Adequate

Forformonco mcots oll roquiromonia, It is entirely satistoctory ond la choroctorizad neither by doficioncy nor

oncellenco.

P . Proficiont

5 - S12009

0 - Qutstanding

Perlornianca is moro than sutisfactory, Desirad resulis ore borng produced in a proficiont manner.

Perforinunco is charactorizad by oxcaptional proficiency.

fornunco is so oxceptional in relation lo roquiremente of the work and in comparison to tha porformanco

eis doing similar work as lo warrant spocial rocognitie

SPECIFIC OUTIES

List up to six of the most important aparitic dullos portoriod during the rating period. Insert ratag loter which bose dormalay the

which emplove portarms EACH spocitre dury.

Consider ONLY affectivonoss in porformanco of thai duly.

with suporvisery responsibilitios MUST bo pornd on thoir obility la suporviso (enilledle numbor ul employone supaevian).

SPECIFIC DUTY NO.T

A TIN

Translation

of Russian language telephone and audio product into English

transcript.

S

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. &

Preparation of characterization-assessment personality reports on the

Soviet complement.

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 5

Processing of transcribed telephone materials Into format facilitating

Immediate analysis and handling by the Station.

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. &

FATTER

ATINI

ET TEI

CATION

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 3

F333

FATTER

SFECIFIC DUTY NO. O

REPER

OVERALL PERFORMANCE IN CURRENT POSITION

Tako into account averyching about the omployes which inlluences his ofloctivoness in lis currone position such as vor.

formanco of specifie Juties, productivity, conduct on

job,

cooporativanoss, pertinent parsonal traits or habies, aird

porticular limitations se palenes.

of employee's ovorall performanco during

place the letter in the rating bor corrasponding lo hoe telement which most decuroraly collocta his lovel al performonce. "

the rating period, i

29 SEP 1954:

FORM 45 OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.

SECRET

LETTER

NW 65987 Docld:32373952 Page 1

---

## Page 2

104-10194-10000

SECRET

SECTION C

NARRATIVE COMMENTS

Indirara signticant arremarla or

= domonitroad in currest position hoopina in more perspectivo their relorionet,p

overull prilormanço.

ato suggestions movo for Improisment of mori patermance. Give mimendurions tor trainti

Car mie

on traiga lan juago comparanco,

Iraquiral lie custerit Misirias

Analily ce explain rati ys giron in Soction 8 to provide tom

serlicotle.

described no Specifle Durj Muber 1.

He bes performed chis duty excellently aal cus-

scientiously, and with a continuing interes: which 10 remoried. in the cousistentl

superior tranointion prajuct.

Tils product is not only accurate (checica at intervals

cy his supervisor), but Sibject proviics comments judiciousin, aud with

Insight, ros

transcriptions which taken by themselves mer he meaningless or of apparent insignitcance.

However, tlie significant contritusion that Subjert unkes to the Station's

Surtet progran 18 his preparation of characierization and assessment reports as the

local Soviet complement.

This reportlis,

based on transiription materials and opers-

tionally developed Information, is unique in presenting enellent personality profiles

on the assigned Soviets.

This type of repurting is of gres: interest,

and it is not

performed at any other NUBARK Statioir.

Chier, S9 Division has seen fit to confietulste

sibject for his contribution in this Meli.

Due to the malue of this product, Head-

quarters has racently authorized Subject's vite to take over part of Subject's respoa-

sibilities of Specific Dity Number 1, so tha: Subject can aire olfectively corcentrate

on Specific Duty Number 2.

Subject and his fanily have socilmated themselres without problem to their

deep cover status, and have every intention vi requesting a second tour, which the

Station will gladly endorse.

SECTION D

DATE

CERTIFICATION AND COMMENTS

BY EMPLOYEE

I CERTISY THAT I NAVE SEEN SECTIONS A, B, AND C GE TRES REPORT

SIGNATI

or stones:

Jessie Base i

BY SUPERVIOR

IF THIS REPORT DAS NOT ESEN SAGUN TO EMPLOTER. DIVE EXPLANATION

L Septerber 106L

MOSER SOONVENON DEEN

DATE

I Sentemuer 1964

COMMENTS OF REVIEVING OFPICIAL

OFFICIAL TITLE OF SUPERVISOR

Operations Officer

BY REVIEWING OFFICIAL

TYPES HE PRINTED NAME AND SIOS ATURE

/S/ Fervert danell

DATE

L Seotember 1841,

OFFICIAL TITLE DE REVIERNS OFFICIAL

Chief of stati..

SECRET

LTYPIE DR PRINTED NAME AND SIONATURE

/Se Finisco: li. scott

NW 65987 Docld:32373952 Page 2

---

