# DOCID-32371334

## Page 1

JEK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION

FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER

: 104-10161-10141

RECORD

SERIES

: JFK

AGENCY

FILE

NUMBER

80T01357A

----

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

TITLE

BRIEF BIOGRAPHIC SKETCH ON SUBJECT.

01/01/1964

PAGES

SUBJECTS :

JFK ASSASSINATION

BIOGRAPHIC SKETCH

DOCUMENT TIPE :

RESTRICTIONS : 1A 1B

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

COMMENTS : JEK45 : F16

: 20040301-1051554

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

55987 Date: 10-28-2021

[R]

- ITEM

IS RESTRICTED

104-10161-10141

NW 65987 Docld:32371334 Page 1

---

## Page 2

PRO, Part I

The following 15 a brief biographic sketch on Subject who is a

naturalizod Auerican citizen eurrently residing in Habana, Cuba:

liano

¿ Emilio Americo RODRICUSZ

Date of Birth

: 27 January 1928

Place ni Birth : Inbani, Cuba

Nationality

American (naturalized flovenber 1949)

Fernanent Address : Route 2, Box 500, Identon, No Go

Business hadress : Centro Asturiano 505, 353 Zuluote St., Habana

Temporary kadress : Edificio Jocsa, Apt. 28-1, Calles 17 & 16,

Vadado, Habans, Cube

Eâucation

: Colegio de la Salle, Habana, Cuba

Alcoa Fortier Righ School, New Orleans, Luo

Recelted Bachelor of Science and Master of Arts

Degree fron Tulane University, Mau Orleans.

Undergraduate Work: Scientific edicine Progran,

majoring in Psychology and minoring in Biology

Graduste Work: The Humanities, majoring in

Linguistics and Literature. Lacks one yeer

to complete work on Ph.D.

Language

Hork Experience

Italian.

& During the period 194E-54, Subjact was employed

in the USA for the purpose of providing additional

income unile attendine Tuleno.

Since doril 1954

Subject has been employed in Habana as Assistent

District lianager of the Habana District Sales

Office (representatives) for Appleton Electric Co.,

Arrov-liart & liegeman Plectric, Century Electric,

Hubbard & Co., Hubbard Alurimam Products, and The

Okonite. Company. In this capacity he has been

iLrectly responsible for all business operation

of these coumanies throughout the territory of

SECRET

NW 65987 Docld:32371334 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Other Data

Fanily

Due to the econonic and political situation pra

vailing in Cuba und prosent restrictions on imported

goods, Subject is considering the advisabillty of

making a change whereby be can improve his present

standing ani future potentiallties in aecordence

s1th his educational qualifications and proven ex

periences.

Fe is Interested in working direct for

an inerican Company, either at home or abroad, with

starting base salary of about $22,000 a your.

Subject is married to an American and has four

children. His brother is a US citizen residing in

How Orleans, and although his parants are citizens

of Cube they mintein a rosidence in New Orleans.

i submanióo it is.

SECMET

NW 65987 Docld:32371334 Page 3

---

