# DOCID-32347828

## Page 1

Date: 12/15/04

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER: 104-10067-10117

RECORD SERIES

JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

: 80T01357A

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM

BRECKINRIDGE, S. D. (CIA)

: BLAKEY, G. ROBERT (HSCA DIRECTOR)

TITLE : CIA COMMENTS ON THE NOSENKO DRAFT.

DATE

03/19/1979

PAGES

4

SUBJECTS : COMMENTS

DERYABIN PETER

NOSENKO

WITHHELD

MURPHY

JFK ASSASSINATION

BAGLEY PETE

FEDOSEYEV

MICHAELS JAMES

DOCUMENT TYPE

CLASSIFICATION : CONFIDENTIAL

RESTRICTIONS : 1A 1E

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 05/25/04

COMMENTS : JFK12 : F7: 20031216-1025953

Heleased under the John F. Kennedy Accascination

Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

Lase NW 65924 Date: 10:25-2021

[R]

------s%

ITEM IS

RESTRICTED

104-10067-10117

NW 65924 Docld:32347828 Page 1

---

## Page 2

Page 32, line 12. Delete cryptonym ABDONOR.

Page 32, lines 20 and 24-25. Delete name "Thomas A. Ryan" and

substitute

"James Michaels."

Page

33, lines

Delete "Thoras A. Ryan" and insert "Janes C.

Michaels"

and "James Michaels" respectively.

Page 37, line 8. Delete name "Ryan" and substitute name "Michaels."

Page 38, line 23. Delete name "Deryabin" and substitute "y."

Page 43, lines 8, 14, 16, 21, and 22.

Name should be "Fedoseyev."

Page 48, Line 24. Delete name "Ryan" and substitute name "wichaels."

Page 51, line 5.

Delete "Camp Perry" and insert "U.S. Government

property outside the Washington area."

Third page of statement made by Nosenko to HSCA 8/7/78, last

paragraph.

Suggest placing month "October" in brackets after "November" to

reflect correct date (we realize Mr. Nosenko gave this date, but it is

incorrect).

Solie Testimony

Page 56, line 17.

Staterent should read,

"The transcript vill

reflect I asked him

to prepare it in his own words on a previous day,

a day or two before."

Page 58, line 9. "Assuming" not "assing.":

Page 59, line 23. Delete "Uh-uh" and substitute "yes."

Page 66, line 20. Delete comma and "by down there" and substitute

"and by SR.

Page 69, line 11.

Even though Mr. Klein undoubtedly used the word

"agents", the word "officers" should be there.

Nurphy Testimony

Introduction. Date on line 4 is wrong; should be 1964-67.

Pages numbered 4 and 5, Lines 24-25 and line 5, respectively.

Solie not Soley-

: Page 20, line 22. Change "propose" to "expose.

,. NW 65924 Docld:32347828 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Michaels Testimony

Deposition of fon Ryan (wichaels). throughout this deposition,

the name

"Michael" is used.

The fornally registered alias was

"James C. Michaels" with a final "s."

Page 5, Line 7. Delete "Polish" and substitute "East Burcpean."

Section #6 Entitled "Letters of CIA Of 9/1/78 anã FBI Of 1/8/79"

Nosenio as paid sio, 00o Date sonia a canged to 1918

"In 1976

" Date should be changed to 1978. Our error.

Bagley Testinony

Page 7, line 32 of Bagley's prepared statement and page 25, line 16

of his testimony.

Substitute "allied service" for "French intelligence."

Typewritten Report

Page 52, line 5. Change "CIA Staff" to "CI. Staff."

Page 71, line 25 and Page 72, line 1. Delete "or the Soviet.

military intelligence." This indicates targetting priorities.

Page 97, lines 11 and 20. Suggest insert (sic) after "agents."

Page 99, Line 23.

The existence of a Station in Switzerland

is clearly indicated. Suggest put in brackets [in West Europel.

Page 110, line 13 and 19..

Suggest deletion of "American/Arerican's."

Page 122, line 17. "A" on Angleton:

pople to 7 15 10 19 in te ey or the soviet intelligeno

Page 134, line 18. Suggest brackets after "five years" with dates

1962-67 inserted since Mr. Bagley had no control of Nosenko case after

October 1967.

Otherwise it may appear that tir. Fithian was referring

to the years 1964-59.

Page 138, Line 12.

"Foreign liaison officials..

Page 138, line 13... Change "hin" to "them.

Change "our foreign liaison agents" to read

3

NW 65924 Docld:32347828 Page 3

---

## Page 4

I understand from your conversation with Rodger that you would .

welcome a letter from the Agency,

on this section of the report,

. for inclusion with it in the final report. Could we have more

It is linderstood that this is the last paper we will see that has

not already been reviewed.

As you know, we are ready to follow up

in a meeting with you on the substantive comments already provided

you.

Very truly yours,

S. D. Breckinridge

Principal Coordinator, HSCA

Distribution:

Orig

- Adse

- SA/ DDCI

- Rininger,

OGC

1 - Sullivan,

OS

- Sednaoui,

DC/CI

- Holmes

--1-- OLC/Subj

1 - OLC/Chrono

OiC/SDB/ksn (19 Mar 79)

NW 65924 Docld;32347828 Page 4..... DO 6. 388

---

## Page 5

DIRECTOR OF CENTRAL INTELLIGENC

WASHINGION, D. C. 20505

OLC 79-0713/0

19 March 1979

Office of Legislutive Counsel

Mr. G. Robert Blakey

Chief Counsel and Director

Select Committee on Assassinations

House of Representatives

Washington, D.C.

20515

Dear BOb:

Herewith are comments on the Nosenko draft.

In comencing, it should be noted that Tennent Bagley rerains

under cover, retired abroad.

We are obliged to honor that cover,

winich he has not moved to have modified.

To expose his true

status as a former. CIA employee could have repercussions in his

present situation that we must accept as significant.

when he

was here in November 1978, he was advised of steps necessary

to remove his cover,, in the event he decided to go overt in this

matter; he took no steps to alter his cover status.

It remains

classified.

We theretore request that the example set in the

Of referring to Mr. Bagley by the title of Deputy

Chief, SB Division, be followed in this draft.

Following are detailed conments:

NOSENKO

Testimony of Nosenko

Circled Page 3, lines 14 and 17, depending on how one counts.

KGB agents should read KGB officers....

Circled Page 4, lines 3 through 20. Suggest the following

rewrite:

There were two factors, however, that limite the value

of the information supplied to the Committee by these

ex-KGB officers: 1) neither had been assigned to the

same KGB Directorate as Nosenko, and 2) one of them had

information about the KGB that was outdated.

Circled Page 6.

Nosenko's actual testirony, last response.

changing word "defectionist" to "defector.

Page 6, line 6. Delete "woman in Ucah" and insect "individual."

Suggest

Page 6, lines 20 and 21. Delete "and even was a co-op from CIA."

020890.6Y

Tảt02

L6260/2211

NW 65924 Docld:32347828 Page 5. -

00 6 388

---

