# DOCID-32106017

## Page 1

Date: 10/29/04

JEK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER

:104-10003-10125

RECORD SERIES

: JEK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

:201-289248

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM

TO

: HELMS, RICHARD, DD/P, CIA

:RANKIN, J. LEE, GEN COUNSEL, WC

TITLE : ANONYMOUS TELEPHONE CALLS TO US EMBASSY IN CANBERRA,

AUSTRALIA, RELATIVE TO PLANNED ASSASSINATION OF

PRESIDENT KENNEDY.

DATE

:05/22/1964

PAGES

: 6

SUBJECTS : AUSTRALIA

ASSASSINATION

CRANK CALL

JFK ASSASSINATION

AMERICAN EMBASSY AUSTRALIA

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS:

1B

CURRENT STATUS: RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

05/03/04

COMMENTS : OSW9: 438: 20031124-1016262

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1 992 (44 USC 2107 Note]. Case#:NW

65.924 Date: 10-21-2021

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10003-10125

NW 65924 Docld:32106017 Page 1

---

## Page 2

UNCLASSIFIED.

ZAAL

NuE ONLY

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

CO. → ATIAL

SECRET

SUBJECT: (Optional)

FROM:

EXTENSION

RIAN

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and

building)

1.

CI

2C

2.

3.

4.

5.

6.

7.

8.

9.

10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

FORM

3-62

610 USE PRONOUS

SECRET

LIFA

DATE

FORWARDED

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

NO.

DATE

XAAZ- 17367

22 May 4

OMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whor

to whom.

raw a line across column after each comment.

RECEIVED

& MAY

1964

96

971

Documen Number 706=308

for FOlA Review on JUA 1976

201-289248

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

NW 65924 Docld:32106017 Page 2

---

## Page 3

PLEASE NOTE:

ATTACHED TO THIS DOCUMENT,

XA42-17367

DATED 22 MaY 64:

IS THE PARTIALLY DECLASSIFIED VERSION WHICH IS AVAILABLE TO THE PUBLIC

AT NATIONAL ARCHIVES.

NW 65924 Docld:32106017 Page 3

---

## Page 4

SECRET

IGNOI

SENSITIVE SOURCES AND

METHODS INVOLVED

4.26

XAAZ-17367

MEMORANDUM FOR: Mr. J. Lee Rankin

SUBJECT:

° Anonymous Telephone Calls to United States.

Embassy in Canberra, Australia, Relative to

Planned Assassination of President Kennedy

1. I refer again to paragraph two of your memoranáum,

dated 12 February 1964, relative to disseminatione to the Secret

Service made by CIA.

2. On 24 November 1963, ClA received from the Department

of the Navy a copy of a cable from the Naval Attache in Canberra,

Australia (IN 67327, Top Secret, later dewngraded to Secret),

reporting a telophone conversation the previous day with an

anonymous indivicual who had described himself as a Polish

chauffeur for the Soviet Embassy in that city. This individual,

while discussing several matters of intelligence interest, touched

on the possibility that the Soviet Government had financed the

assassination of Fresident Kennedy. Reference was made in this

cable to the receipt of a similar anonymous telephone call on

15 October 1962.

3. Upon receipt of this cable from Navy CIA took the

following action:

a. Cabled to Ganberra anking full details of the

telephone conversation of 23 November and the call made

on 15 October 1962. It should be noted that CIA had not

previoualy known of the 1962 telephone call.

201-289245

*

Document Number

706-308

CObA

For told Raview on

JUN 1976

260

PiTE 22 May

CS 001

SEGRET

201-289243

GROUP

excluded iram scolatel

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE

peciessiticalion

NW 65924 Docld:32106017 Page 4

---

## Page 5

SECRE

HERNING NOTICE

IVE SE

§ AND

ETHODS INVOLVED

10S49

The Cla Statioa in Sanearsa, on 17 November, forniched

all available koformation on the 1962 telephone sail. It appeasa

that source oa lial oronica statos that "Iron Curtain Countries"

plaani to pay a handred thoasand sollse for the assassinstien

of l reoldent &eredy,

Ca (l Hove

complete dsfall ca t

De, the cle Canberre Station also furnishad

masonyanbas tolephoos call of 21 Roveraber 1963

29 Neveraber, ca

Linseratanted tale intorosstion, ag

aupplied oy tos Canterza Cotton, to far #hite fiease, Department

of frate, ané Ledarni Baras of larartigation, aila a copy to the

Secret service, & copy of this diacemination in its exact test

is Meachna to tale sastrorandar.

* Tha CIA Statios in Santorr arranged lor Alscuasien of the

calle with the hastrallas security service. In the optales os the

rustralian asthoritise, the colles vas a crank.

In any arent, Sasy

were not able to idontily any Folish employee of the foriet Cmbassy,

the antomobile deesribad by the enter as the one he drove, or làx

Mcenco plata samãer lven by líre. No farther infomantica de this

osti has bren raceived, Availablo eridance poute tend to cher that

the caller was some Sype a C1202+

This conclanter, honorer, caanos

he contines.

3. Ploise note that the sitare o the talormatios in thie

memorabdue ond ta attachment roguires thi ate at a saneltivity

incitesar.

Richard Helraz

Depaty Birsctor for Flins

Attacheasat

-SECRET

CROSS 1

Excluded trom automatics

downgradine and

WARNING NONEE

SENSITIVE SOURCES AND

METHODE INT

NW 65924 Docld:32106017 Page 5

---

## Page 6

WARNING NOTEE

SENSIT!

CES. AND

Betribution:

Griginal & 1 • Addrassae

2 - LDP

1• 6/17/3

1 - C/C1/SIC

1 - G/CL/RE*

1 - CI/R&A/TRHall

1 - CI/R&A/201

Originzted by: C/RUA/TRHallink/6664/21 May 1964

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE SOURCES AND

BETONS IN"

NW 65924 Docld:32106017 Page 6

---

## Page 7

MADANEL

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITI

SES AND

DEA INVOLVED

CUT Teletype Ne. 65991, dated 29 Norember 195., Tiled at 117 houra,

to the white loure, Departsent aí idate and Federal Borers of

Lavestigation, *ith a copy to tho

Secret Fireles

1. Yoar attention la cslied to a series si snonymous telaptoe

callo maos to the olfice of the li., Naval ittedhe in Conberrs,

nostralia, by a man claiming to huve had krontedge about a Fortet

plet to accussinate the late & nicklent Kennedy. Cur firet resord

ai thie sallar lo A Naval Attache cable tram Genbarre sent se

#4 November 1957.

an It appears that tas caller.

who professes to ba tas rohist

shauticar of a Soviet Embassy car in Comberrã, lirat phonsu in

over a year ago, en 15 October 1964 repeat 1962. Al that time he

told a story about five Sovict nubmorkuce carrying ¿ce te 500 Soviet

soldiere on their way te Cuba:

One purpose of this troop movement.

he said, vas to sapport tha Gorezor of Mississippl. Re added that

thone was a plot to pay one busdrod tacosans dollara to lill Freeldest

Romady. Dobiad the plot, he cald, vero the *Iron Gartain Countrles.

and "Communist mo in Laglant, Mong Yong and pretarbl

countries.*

On 13 Novembox 196 repont 196, tha day after the

asassination of Froeldent Kenneüy and over a your afor the firet

telophone call, a saxo belloved to be the same porson phoned lae

Smbassy again and ipode to the assimiant Noval Attachs. The caller

saferred to his call & yes, back and stated he had said that the Dog

had pus ap 100,000 dollare for the abrasination of Erasidont Kennedy.

1, Giring what he elsirsed vare farther detalls about tha

assasclaitton, the caller said that about two socks before (wlich

coula have been is early November 1963) he was present ubes an

Andrilian man, 15 to 40 yoars old, and tall, vas dispatched by.

the Sorots to the United States carrying a cate sbout 19 to 40

contasters long, 50 contimeters high, und &5 centimelere wiie.

The memo Vasyl Tro was ases in some connactins aith this soar.

He us put on i plans in piony end vaile the colier arave the foo

Soviet escorta back to canberrs, Choir abortravo radio in the car

was going constantly. A chort xes radio pat going la the limbsisy

Lott

20-289247

WARNING NOTIEE

SENSITIVE ST

CES AND

METHODS INVOLY

Five

NW 65924 Docld:32106017 Page 7

---

## Page 8

WARNING NORCE

SENSIT!'

PEIRCES AND

-S INVOLVED

aloo when toy arrived there.

Cyst fhare radios, one of these Seriot»

tradimited nurbors and "points," They remained in the ambassy, ans

tant morning (apparently *" Noveuber 1961), a mestage came tarough

anà tossts vere drags la kinnian Vodas and the Rossians present cald.

Ace have achioved what so waot.*

The valler then govs "intormation" about tha Soriet rele

in ainting a U.S. Nory nsclear abmarins and on Soriot sabyeralon la

Indonesie.

He would not ldcatly Ananelf, ans when ha described the

esz ho drives (so a nary bloe 1952. Bales, licene plate New South Wales

CCO 0122) be adadd they often change plates, have lüy sets in reserve,

and can change them in live secoods.

€.

The caller added come vagos inforsaction about & woman

employee of the American Ambassy he thingo works for the beviate.

The converention concladed with the caller proraleing to write & letter

te ths Naval Attacho at the americon Embasey.

7.

The caller spehe good English ani his accort ané voice die

not change throughout the concarention, so it was aaruced that ho

mas sot disguining bis voice .

8.

apotralias sothoritica working on this ease consider the

callar to be a crank. They state tase Joviet offiece In Australla

do not too anythias bot forict chonoure; they hare as record a

Pair uning • Polish chaultear, thoy are costinalng their savestigation.

CROUP T

Excledoe mem automatio

donneraling and

coolaccidicalian

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE SOURSES AND

METHOOS INITIVIn

NW 65924 Docld:32106017 Page 8

---

