# DOCID-32324531

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/8/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90029-10023

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 100-405298-9

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: ARMY

FROM:

USA

TO :

TITLE:

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

ББOOO Date: 11-03-2021

DATE: 11/03/1954

PAGES: 2

SUBJECTS :

THOMAS R. PEASNER

THOMAS RODMAN PEASNER JR.

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 3

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/20/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF USA

• COMMENTS: SUMMARY;

v9.1

ANW 66000 Docld:32324531 Page 1

9

---

## Page 2

CONADENTIAL

SUARY OF INFORMATION

G2-S(Pol)

(SR 380-320-10)

*3 NOV 1954

PREPARING OFFICE

Special Counsel, Security Division, Office of AC of S, G-2, Intel, Dept of the Army

UPLASNER, Ihomas-R... (Civilian)

CODE FOR USE IN INDIVIDUAL PARAGRAPH EVALUATION

6615 Latta Street

RECEIVED FROM

ON FIRMED BY OTHER SOURCES. I

Dallas, Texas

NOVS 1954

FAIRLY RELIABLE

POSSIBLY TRUE

NOT USUALLY RELIABLE

DOUBTFULLY TRUE

Formerly PfC, RA 18 323 08%8

JF.S.

UNRELIABLE :

IMPROBABLE

RELIABILITY UNKNOWN

TRUTH CANNOT BEJUDGED .

SUMMARY OF INFORMATION

Born: 119 October I929 at [pittsburgh, Penn. ]

the military service.

2. SUBJECT Lived at Dallas, Texas and worked as a misician prior to entering

HE was in the military service from 19 August 1949

ember 1953, having attained the grade of Private First Class. HE was a prisoner of

war of the Communists in Korea from 23 April 1951 to 16 August 1953. (Incl 1)

SUBJECT, by HIS own admissions, stated that HE voluntarily made one record-

ing of a

Christmas message for broadcast to HIS relatives; that HE was a member of a

voluntary study group; and that HE signed a statement under duress about a camp

espionage ring. (Incl 2)

DECLASSIFIED BY MU

4-21-98

I SIDISIL 5-4-48

3. Approximately 190 former prisoners

of war have made derogatory statements

concerning SUBJECT. From these statements it appears that SUBJECt allegedly cooperated

with the Chinese by making voice recordings, preparing articles and letters, signing

and circulating petitions, being a member of a peace committee, attending voluntary

study classes and participating in other similiar activities.

HE was reported to have

been very friendly with camp leaders, to have been given special consideration by HIS

captors, to have been sincere in HIS acceptance of Communism, and to have attempted

to influence fellow prisoners of war. (Incl 3)

The available documentary evidence indicates that SUBJECT made one record-

ing of a message to a soldier friend in Korea, urging him to write his congressman to

seek an end to the Korean War, and another of a Christmas message to HIS wife and son,

asking them to "do something about" working for 'peace.. (Incl 4)

5. The Joint Intelligence Precessing Board recommended that SUBJECT be tenta-

tively classified as a security risk.

The Phase II Interviewer stated that SUBJECT 1s a security risk as evidended.

by HIS reluctance to discuss anything pertaining to Communism or Connunist ideology,

and HIS attempts to excuse the actions of other progressives in the camp. HE indicated

on several occasions that HE expects to be contacted by some vague party upon HIS

return to the United States and that HE fears the statements made by HIM while a pris-

oner, may bo used to intimidate either HIM or HIS family, GOT

INDEXED-45

The available evidence indicates that SUBJEChlay FVe aVen aid and comfort

to the enemy in that hE purportedly participated in thelenemy propaganda program of

psychological warfare against the United States by writing erticles, making recordings

for broadcast,

and sigring and circulating peace petitions which tended to impair our

prosecution of the war,

our negotiations for a favorable peace settlement and the

marshalling of

world opinion favorable to the United States.

BECEINED

DA I DEC 51 568

1-122

195 CONFIDENTIAL

BERLA MAYBE GSEFORM 568. 1 JUN 47.

# U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1953-0-247710

DATE -15-95158 AC/ESR

(JFK)

ANW 66000 Docld:32324531 Page 2

---

