# DOCID-32319446

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

4/15/201

Agency Information

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10370-10011

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

62-117290-ADMIN FOLDER-F6

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FBI

FROM: BH

TO: HQ

TITLE:

Heleased under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection 4ct of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Notel. Case#N'W

ESTO Date: 11-03-2021

DATE: 12/24/1975

'PAGES:, 417

SUBJECTS:

HSCA ADMINISTRATIVE FOLDER, ASSASSINATION

MATTERS VOLUME V

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS:

1B; 4

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 03/04/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS:

INC FOLDER, LHM, MEMO, LET, STATEMENT, NEWS ARTICLES, TTY, R/S, NEWS

RELEASE, FD-302, S/S, CABLEGRAM, INSERT, ABSTRACT, NOTE, REPORT,

TRANSLATION, PAMPHLET

v9.1

NW 66000 Docld:32319446 Page 1

43

---

## Page 2

NUFR

PLAINTEXT

SECRET

• TELETYPE

IMr. R.

TO SACS BALTIMORE

COLUMBIA

PHOENIX

FROM DIRECTOR FBL

(62-116395)

Mintz

Daly ATEL

½ Callagher

FEBRUARY 26,

(Aten:

Nettles)

Mr.

Mr.

W.

R. Wannall

w. O.

IS. MeNiff

1976

SENSTUDY 75

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HERCIN TS UNCLASSIFIED

EXCELT WHERE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

REBUTEL MAY 2, 1975.

THE SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE (SSC) HAS REQUESTED THAT

FORMER SPECIAL AGENTS ELDON DEAN RUDD, FLETCHER D. THOMPSON

AND ELBERT T. TURNER BE MADE AVAILABLE FOR STAFF INTERVIEW

CONCERNING THEIR KNOWLEDGE OF THE OSWALD MATTER AND THE

KENNEDY ASSASSINATION.

BUREAU RECORDS INDICATE LAST KNOWN

ADDRESS FOR THESE FORMER EMPLOYEES TO BE: RUDD, POST OFFICE

BOX 873, SCOTTSDALE, ARIZONA 85252 (OCTOBER, 1975);

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF CIA INFORIMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT AmB 3/14/94

THOMPSON, 216 NOVAHO DRIVE, SPARTANBURG, SOUTH CAROLINA 29301

(NOVEMBER, 1975); AND TURNER, BOX 13A, THUNDERBIRD DRIVE,

LUSKY, MARYLAND 20657 (CURRENT ADDRESS). SAC OR ASAC OF

ASSANITIZED

RECIPIENT OFPICES IS REQUESTED TO PERSONALLY CONTACT THESE

FORMER EMPLOYEES AND ADVISE THEM OF SSC DESIRE TO INTERVIEW

25201

THEM. THESE EMPLOYEES, WITH THE EXCEPTION OF TURNER, SHOULD

BE ADVISED THAT IF SSC INITIATES CONTACT, THEY SHOULD, BEFORE

CONSENTING TO INTERVIEY, CONTACT BUREAU'S LECAL COUNSEL DIVISION

TUM:mjg

(8)

APPROPRIATE AGENCIES

AND PIOtRITICES

(P(3) 07

clas

* 10126184 dig

Hose 5 035mme

SEE NOTE PAGE THREE

SEE REVERSE

SIDE FOR

CLASSIFICATION

ACIIC

SECRET

Declassify On QADR /0/10/84

CLASSIFIEO BY: 5668 SLO/SOC

REASON:

DECLASOIRY ON X CO) (IRK)

3/3/99

NW 66000 Docld:32319446. Page 2

---

## Page 3

SECRET

PAGE THREE

NOTE:

62-116395

Referenced Bureau teletype 5/2/75, was a general

IncroduccIon to all SAcs concerning

the SSC inquiry into this

Bureau's operations and this Bureau's cooperation with that

body. *Purpose of above interviews is to resolve a question

that has arisen congerning whether or not tapes made by CLA

in connection withtcoverage afforded Cuban and Soviet Embassies

in Mexico City were ever in possession of Bureau personnel

and whether or not they were ever transported to the Dallas

Office from Mexico City by Bureau personnel 16() 85)

139038

SECRET

- 3 -

NW 66000 Docld:32319446 Page 3

---

## Page 4

F32

Mentes

5/26/66

macill the lollewing fa

TEL STYPS

URGENES

(ramay)

TOP

FROY

DIRECTOR

092-3267)

137-/90%

LOSION

192 - 45022

CHICAGO

892-3993

TOB, ANGELES (92-113))

1ECR0

JOHI HOSSETTI, ARÁOLAS LA FOUR TIRE SDE NINE PO,

09F COS ANGELES.

RE LOS ANGELOS DEZ DO BUREAU MAY MENTY FOUR LAST.

ROSSETTT INTERVIEHED ALONE OLE MAY ANDINY VIVE

LASTASE SA-BAROUD F DODGE POR APPROXIHATKTT ONF FALTE HOUR

ROSSELLE WAS ADVISED IN GRARAI. OF FAGTS ENGE TO FEI

GORCERNTIG HIS TRUE IDENTITE ME WAS INFORTED TEND FOL

HAD ERARNET THIS CERDUGY PALRIETANITIO THOROUGE DISCREET

INVESTIGARTON DIVERTIR CENTOS DE MINEROUE RECOADSI CHAT

BUREAT'S MEXT SID HOULD NORMANLY US AN OPEN INTENSIVE

INVESTIGADIÓN INTO RIE FAST DNDE TRE NNE FILZEPO GACCO;

JEAN USE DE PODEROS ORURO CURY MODLO BE COTSIDANSO IN SUCH

UD/mie

SEARCHED

3 * 137-2602

(2)

INORKED

FILLO

Fosia den a Chas

5sem

92 4/3 2955

NW 66000 Docld:32319446 Page 4

---

## Page 5

4-22 (Rev. 1-28-75;

Federal Bureau of Investiga.ior

Records Section

, 19.

Name Searching Unit, 4543 JEH-FBI Bldg.

Service Unit, 4654 JEH-FBI Bldg.

Forward to File Review

Auertion -

Return to

Supervisor

Room Ext.

Type of References Requested:

Regular Request (Analytical Search)

JAlI References (Subversive & Nonsubversive)

Subversive References Only

Nonsubversive References Only

J Main

References Only

Type of Search Requested:

Restricted to Locality of .

Exact Name Only (On the Nose)

Buildup

_ Variations

Subject.

Birthdate & Place

utierre

Address -

CLASSIFED BY 5668 SUD/GEL

Localities

1542

1331Y ON: 25X (4)

2/22/49

Searcher.

- Date 12: 11

- Initials

XP

Prod. -

FILE NUMBER

SERIAL

184-1.3006

52-53238-2

62-11 2692-24

105-82555-5669

2,94

1802 v

1162

3062

2/01

2258 -

2.3i1

2338

2332

2344,

2.388

2585 г

3300°

335%"

13909g/29

NW 66000 Docld:32319446 Page 5

---

## Page 6

4-220 (Rev.

1-17-59)

NUMEROUS REFERENCE

Subj:

Valenciatedro L

Supervisor.

Vin 9/ Awen

_Room.

RH--

- Date !D -/

Searcher

Initial

Prod.

FILE NUMBER

Pedro /8.

SERIAL

64-42305-49p22

Pedro

40-84522-4

(54-330-205-347361

2 - 1159-

113

105-135-158-135

64-27914-15

64-20095-37

64-200 - 212-44 6p2

26-1486

100-345926-1

74-330-211- 36057611

105-156605-8

aparo 300 rels you tedro!

Gutiérre

not hates need

more Inpro.

SECRED

-..!

NW 66000 Docld:32319446 Page 6

---

## Page 7

2/24/76

AIRTEL

AIRMAIL

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (105-82555)

FROM:

LECAT, MEXICO CITY (105-3702)

SUBJECT: LEE HARVEY OSWALD

IS - R

Re telephonic conversation with SA SEYMOK F:

PHILLIPS 2/23/76.

Enclosed are copies of the following communications

as maintained in Legat file 105-3702 as requested by Mr.

PHILLIPS:

Memo of SA ELDON D. RUDD to SAC Dallas dated 11/23/63;

Mexico City cable to Bureau dated 11/25/63;

Legat Mexico letter dated 12/11/63.

advises his

He said specifically they have no information

regarding subject's taped conversation.

3 - Bureau (Enc. 3)

(1 - Foreign Liaison Unit)

1 • Mexico City

JJW: sls

(4)

CLASSINED BY: 566850/8il

FISACON:

1.5 /6

DECLASSIFY ON: X C1

TER)

3/2/988

ALT. INPORMAZION CONTAINED

HENSON IS UNCIASSIFIED

ONSIDEWISE

-SECRET

NW 66000 Docld:32319446 Page 7

---

## Page 8

Tater!.

Government of

Canted.

It la p.o.id & 0r

th 1

tir use solely

the

intelligence community of

the

receiving

Goveroment

sant it not te

declassified

without the express germission

Government of Cansa.

FRIORITY OTT5 DECIC CONFIDENTIAL

RCMP LIAISON OFFICE

2450 MASSACHUSETTS AVE IN

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20008

OUR REF:

25WLO-1C-44

LO WASH

P5/72375 •THE FOLLOWING TELEX WAS RECEIVED FRON OUR •'A DIVISION

LiE OLI THE & DEC 75. QUOTE: *'AT-21:55 HRS 3 DEC 75 A FIONE CALL WAS

RECEIVED AT INE "A'' DIV. DESK FROM AMALE PERSON WHO STATED MIS

TATE WAS SAMUEL VOGEL AND HIS HOME ADDRESS 10 SUTTON PLACE 4&'D.

ST. NEW YORK CITY NEW YORK. VOGEL ADVISED THAT HE HAD INFORMATION

NEGARDING THE ASSASINATION OF PRESIDENT JONN F. KENNEDY AND ALSO :

THE FUIUNE ASSASINATION OF TED KENNEDY. NE WISHED TO SEE A MEDEA

OF THE ROUP IN THIS REGARD. VOGEL STATED HE WAS PRESENTLY STAYINC

IN ROOM 703 OF THE OTTAWA HILTON HOTEL. WHEN QUESTIONED AS TO THENS

BEING NO HILTON IN OTTAVA NE INSISTED THAT WAS WHESE HE WAS AND

HE WAS IN OTTAWA. STATED ME WAS FAMILIAR WITH THE STREETS IN CITAMA

BUT COULD NOT REMEMBER THE STREET THE MOTEL WAS OU. INDICES CHOCKED

NEGATIVE. CHECK MADE AT CHATEAU LAURIER HOTEL WHICH IS A HILTO:

CHAIN AND THEY HAVE NO RECORD OF SUCH PERSON STAYING AT HOTEL.

CHECK MADE WITH OTHER MAJOR HOTELS IN OTTAWA WERE NEGATIVE. YOU

TAY WISH TO CONFIRM AUTHENTICITY OF NEW YORK ADDRESS GIVEN DURING

PHONE CALL THE VOICE SOUNDED DISTANI AND THERE WAS CONSIDERASLE

INTERFERENCE ON INE LINE."' UNGUOTE.

IT WOULD BE APPRECIATED IF YOU MIGHT LIAISE WITH THE APFROPRIATE

U.S. AUTHORITIES IN AN EFFORT TO OSTAIN ALL AVAILABLE BICGRAPNICIL

SATA CONCEMINC THE SUBJECT AND ALVISE IF HE IS CONSIDERZO F

THREGT TO V.I.F.S.

NW 66000 Docld:32319446 Page 8 CO:

---

## Page 9

PLAINTEST

TELSTYPE

SECRET

12/12/75

Mr. Nettles

Bowers

Kolombatovic

TO: SACS, NEN YORK

ALETANURIA

WTO

LEGAT, OTTAYA

FROM: DIRECTOR, FBI

UNSUB; AKA SAM VOGEL, ALLIGED INFORIATION REGARDING JOEY P.

KENNEDY ASSASSINATIO, ALLEGED INTORMATION REGARDING ATTEMYTED

ASSABSINATICH OF SENATOR EDWAKD KENNEDY; ASSAULT ON PRESIDENT.

TILSTYPS, 13/4/75.

ROYAL CANADIAN MOUNTED POLICE (RCIP) LIAISON OPTICE,

WASHTNGTON, DC, BAS ADVISED FBINQ THAT ON DECENDER 3, 1975,

RCUP NA"DIVISION RECEIVED A TELEPHONE CALL PROM A MALE PERSON

NIO STATED IS WAS SAMUEL, VOGEL, 10 SUTTON PLACE, 42ND STREET,

WE YORK, NY. CALLER STATED HE HAD INFOZMATION REGARDING

ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT KENNEDY AND ALSO A TUTURE

ASSASSINATION OF TED KENNEDY, HE VISHED TO SEE A MEMBER OF

RCIP AND SAID HE WAS STAYING IN ROOM 703 OF OFTAVA HILTON

HOTEL. CALL SOUNDED DISTANT VITE CONSIDERABLE INTEBTERENCE ON

THE LINE, THERE IS NO HOTEL NAIED HILTON IN OTTANA, BUT (S)

WEN send

(6)

See Note

age 3.

CLASSIFIED BY: 5(L8 SL0/gel

REASONS

1.57

DECLASSIFY ON: X S)

(PFK) 1/22/99

SECRET

NW 66000 Docld:32319446 Page 9

---

## Page 10

SECKEI

PICE MO

CHATEAU LAULIER HOTEL IS PART OF THAT CHAIN. NO RECORD

LOCATED CE VOGEL AT THAT HOTEL OR OILSE MAJOR HOTELS IN

OTTANARCHP REQUESTED ALL AVAILABLE BIOGRAPIICAL DATA

CONCERNING VOCEL AND DESIRE TO EX ADVIBED IF FOS IE COT-

SIDERED A TIKEAT TO VIP'S. S)

POR THE INFERNATION OF RECEIVING OFFICES OTHES FRAN

NEW YORK, RETERENCED TELETYPE CONTAINS SIMILAR INFORMATION

REGARDING VOGEL RECEIVED DECEMBER 4, 1975, FROM US MILITARY

ACADEMY, VEST POINT, NEW YORK, WISRE VOGEL HAD TELEPHONED ON

DECEMBER 3, 1075.

USES HEADQUARTERS ADVISES VOGEL'S REAL NANE IS IRVING

GROSSMAN, AKA HENRY CROSSHAN, AND IRVING GROSSMANN. AS OF

NOVEMBER 30, 1975, IS RESIDED AT 3636 HULL AVENUE, APARTIENT

1-3, BRONX, NEW YORK, HE IS A CAUCASIAN MALE; BORS AUGUST 30,

1040, AT NEW YORK CITY: 350 POUNDS; 6 TETT TALL.

LE TAS A

HISTORY OF MENTAL PROBLEMS AND IS CONSIDERED BEYOUND REHABILIE

TATION. IN 1965 IT ATTENTED TO DUIN HIS HOUSE DOWN AND, IDE

WAS VIOLENT IN THE PAST.

NEW TORK LOCATE AND INTERVIST VOGEL REGARDING ANT IN-

FORMATION HE MAY HAVE CONCITING TIE ASSASBINATION OF PRESIDENT

KENNEDY AND ANY FUTURE ASSASSINATION CE SENATOR EDWARD KENNEDY.

NOTIFY USSS AND OUTAIN ANY INTORATION REGARDING VOGEL.

NOTIFY CRITER APPROPRIATE AUTHORITIES. ADVISE TBINIO, ALEXANDRIA,

AND VEO, AND LEGAT, OTTAWA, SUTET FOLLOWED BY LIU.

DAT TO NEBULOUS NATURE OF INFORMATION, ALEXANDRIA AND

WEO HOLD NOTITICATION OF APPROPLIATE AUTHORITINS IN ARUYANCE

SECRET

NW 66000 Docld:32319446 Page 10

---

## Page 11

PAGE THIEL

SECRET

UNTIL ADDITIONAL INFORKATION RECEIVED FROM NEW YORK OFFICS.

СВОЛСИ ШЕНІ СЛИСТОМ

(6)

NOTE: Two copies oRCiP teletype received frOl RCUP Liaison

0181c0 12/21/75.

Their file number 75 VLO-11C-45 Intornation

tron loss sadquarters recolved from SA Don Bell.

SECRET

NW 66000 Docld:32319446 Page 11

---

