# DOCID-32418133

## Page 1

104-10185-10045

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

65997 Date: 10-29-2021

SECRET

(When Filled in).

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

FROM:

COMMENTS

3.

FL/D/Ops

TO

ROOM

но.

G/ FID

1502 L

EAT B02

RU D&P

1310 L

FI/ D/R

1509 L

FI/ D/Ops

2509 1

DATE

RECEIVED FORMARDID

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

13/

TOP SECRET

LAURIELE

5.

В.

7.

RETURNTO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

9.

10.

11.

.12.

18.

14.

18.

1В.

17.

RECORD COPY

NW 65987 Docld:32418133 Page 1

---

## Page 2

104-10185-10045

DISPATCH

Chief of Station, Rome

SECRE

TER SAIRE

HIRC

POSED

PROCESSING

" Астюм.

FLISMED

Chiel, KUTUBE/D

NEAPOUARTERS DESI

CAN 'MDEL INDEKING

ABSTRACT

RÉQUIRED 'REFERENCES

CATE TYPEN

& June 61

DISHATCH SYMBOL AND NURBER

OIRW 18582

HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMDER

DATE DISPATCHED

2 ÷ JUN 198!

Fi/b/ Ops

OSFiCE STUDE

CLiSSIFICATION

TOP SECRET

A RISIKVER

rbo

COGESATING

DAlE

*4652

OFFICER S ARME

Internal:

1 - FI/D/Ops

•/LE

NW 65987 Docld:32418133 Page 2

---

## Page 3

104-10185-10045

DISPATCH

Chiel of Statioa, Tome

ALLERtON: DESMOND OF SHERIDAN

CLASSIFICAION

TOP SECRET

PROCESSING

ActioN

1829RE: 178 1NI18:96

MADELLA:LES DESA

CAN FIDUE INDEXING

Chief, KUTUSE/D

Heath.

N:5834•.0

ECT. LAURICLE

REQUIRED PIEFERENCES

Daring Rabaey's IDY la Rome la April 1961, Clarkson gave him the

name of Tomaso CORBISIERO, owner of the Ear Marisa da Floreace, an a

potential spotter for the KUTUBE/D purpose explained to Desmond and Sherican

We have nöw completed the tracing on CORSISIERO in all possible KUBARK tiles,

Greenlist, ODENVY and ODURGE flles; resulis vere negative.

a hould appreciare your making Clarksos available to briel

CORBISIERO and send him on his search mission. The criteria sheet left with

sheridad by Rabney in the basic reference document for Clarkson, but we should

Like to add two items: (3) Da lhe basis of our recent experiences, it may well

tarn out to be tho case that candicates contacred by Corbidiero through his frinda

in the underworld will be unwilling during the first contact to give their true names

and other dats. In fact, this would be normal, and we anticipate the necossity of

Corbisiero's revisiting promising candidates lo obtain data for tracing purposes

and to make accurate assesarents. fo) He stress quality; il Carbistero returas

frous dis firsl search mission vill only a couple of candidates, me aball sot bo

disappointei. Plenty of patience and a high degreo of selectivity will net us more

In tho long run than aimlog at guick accomplishments.

3.

ds we understood il from Clarkson, Corbisiero will slart his search in

Mowerp. Please indure thai he does paisearcà in Frauce since me have activities

underway there with which he may unwittingly cross wires. We slso consider it

inadrisable that he search in Italy.

We have obligatod $1000 for Corbisiero's missioa, to include travel

and ops expouses and pay for his time. More is available if needed. Regarding

the amount al payi we leave this up to you and Clarkson on the basis of the time

• spent on the misalon and the extent to which you are satisfied that he made a

conscientious and secure effort. Costs ahould be charged to KUTUBI! I, citing

Cost Center 1123-1030-1000.

"CÃOSS RESERENICE TO

LATE TYPES

DISPATCH SI MBOL AND NUMBEF

¡ DATE DISPATCHIN

MEADPUARTERS FILE NUMSER

Tai slut

II/DLOpS

SEGINATING

БУРІЗІ.

se SILVER

VERDINATINE O

unic

4652

OFFICESS MULLE

Internal:

i - FID/ Opa

NW 65987 Docld:32418133 Page 3

---

## Page 4

104-10185-10045

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

CLASSIRICATONIY

107

TOP SECIET

DOL ANO NO.

OLF: K 18582

5.

To prarice maximura securily for this ellart the following bandling

al trallic bas beer coordicator and enrabliahed:

Cables to anil from Headquarters to be dent througli lee

special channel oaly, TOP SECRET nad sludged RYDAI IPRIFLE.

"Disparches, which we connider far preferatle lo cables, mil

be seat froni Headguarlery lo Paro in che urigioal only in so earolapo martod

"To be opened by DESMOND or SHilLOAN oaly."

LAURICLE, addressed to Chiel, KÜTOßL/D, la a realed eavelope darked do föl-

-Dispaïches from Rome lu Headquarters so be seat TOP SECRET

TÜP SECHET MURICLE

ZENIELI

dea: Chiei, KÜTUBE/D

To be opened by Daniel 11, PRESLAti ODiy.

He require sas original aid one copy saly. Necessary licadquarters coordination

on trallie will be asdertakon by Chies, HUTUBElD with Chies, " E.

Il is roquestod that all copies al all iralfir on ZIPLi LE mallera, ta-

cludieg Station copies of ClFi-27512, be kept iu an eyes arly file in the offico

ot Cis anú that COS arrAngo to Rave IIILE LE cables deltared ly his sigael

contes to hire only. This is the request ta are pulting lo auy statica with maica

as corrsapond sa rarifLE.

END OF DISPAICH

Diatribation:

1- CCS. Forre

NW 65987 Docld:32418133 Page 4

---

