# DOCID-32366460

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER

RECORD SERIES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

: CIA

: 104-10132-10332

: JFK

:

80T01357A

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

: CIA

AGENCY ORIGINATOR

FROM

TO

TITLE

DATE

PAGES

INFORMATION ON GORDON DWANE NOVEL, RICHARD I. BLAST

AND REDEX.

01/01/1967

4

SUBJECTS : REDEX

BLAST,

RICHARD

NOVEL,

G.D.

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS SECRET

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 08/20/93

COMMENTS. : JFK47 : F6B: 1993.08.20.15:03:07:960028

Heleased under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Flecords Collection Act of

992 (44 USC 2107 Note]. Case#N'

55924 Date: 10-26-202

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10132-10332

NW 65924 Docld:32366460 Page 1

---

## Page 2

SECRET

A. NOVEL Is Polygraphed by Lloyd FURR on Garrison's Charges.

Gordon Dwane NOVEL, already a fugitive witness in the

Garrison inquiry, is reported in the Washington press of 27

March 1967 as having been polygraphed the previous day on the

case under investigation by Garrison. According to the press

reports, NOVEL submitted to a polygraph examination

conducted at VicLean, Virgiaia by Lloyd FURR. In statements

to the press. FURR indicated there was no indication of

deception to NOVEL's charges that Garrison's case is a

"fraud"......

B. Lloyd FURR's Relationship to Richa:

/L. BAST and REDEX.

Lloyd FURR, a former District of Columbia policeman and now

a private detective, is a self-proclaimed polygraph "expert"

and sound device specialist. He has received pablicity in the

past for planting sound devices for the late Fulton Lewis, Jx.

in the St. Mary's County vice case in 1953 and in 1958 when he

discovered Ilstening devices being used against Bernard Goldfine.

In 1964, Information was received that a Washington, D. C.

firm, REDEX, operated by FURR and Richard Li. BAST, was

attempting to sell electronic equipment to Communist China via

an agent in Hong iong. (ISD had unclassified contact with

FURR in 1962 to see equipment offered for sale by FURR.)

C. Richard L. BAST and REDEX.

Richard L. BASI, a Washington, D.C. private detective, gained

noteriety in 1965 by turning up a missing witness, previously

unlocated by the Department of Justice, in connection with the

Bobby Baker case.

he is known to operate at least four

enterprises: 1) CAPITAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION, a

private detective agency; 2) REDEX VISTNAM, INC., a firm

which importe a variety of cormodities ranging irom liquor to

automobiles irto South Vietnam, including, of late, U.S.-recruited

"go-go" girls for a Saigon nightclub he is planning: 3) REDEX

CORP., a firm which sells almost anything to saybody abroad,

other than South Vietnam; and 4) CONSOLIDATED ARMAMENTS,

INC., a firm which sells small arms to foreign governments and

private individuals abroad. BAST also produces and distributes

both positive zudio and counteraudio devices in the U.S. and

65161

NW 65924 Docld:32366460 Page 2

---

## Page 3

SECRET

OversEaS. BAST, described at "anscrupulous and untrust-

worthy", Is known to have attempted to contract with another

private detective for planting a remote-controlled bomb in the

headquarters of the Haili Secret Police, and has been reported

to have undertaken similar extreme assignments los exile

groups from Haitl and the Dominican Republic. (Based on

derogatory loformation as file, DCS, in March 1967, decided

agalnat previoualy contemplated contact with BAST as a

sourCe of Information On Asia,)

D. BAST, REDEX, and William H. TURNER O& RAMPARIS

CA Stall has provided information that during January 1967,

William W. TURNER, who identlied himself as a free-lance

writes, visited the offices of the Asia Foundation, requesting

Information for a magasine article. He stated that he had

been anked by Sal Stern of New Yark to gather information for

an article in the Now York Times. During hla visit, however,

il became obvious that TURNER vas primed to ast questions

about the financing of the foundation, rather than its actual

parpose of activities. When TURNER concluded the luterview

he left a calling card with tho firm name "REDEX-PACIFIC".

He expiawed he had to have ney caras printed. turmai,

reportedly clomissed from the FBI in 1961, ds noted-to Dave

authored an article in the November 1966 lasue of RAMPARTS

Magesise in which he describes alleged wiretapping / cur-

roptitious entry, etc.. performed by his while with the F'B1.

Sol Sters, whom be ciaimed to represent, ls assistant

managing editor of RAMPARTS Magasine.

Role of FURB and BAST in CIA Meeting of Estle

(The forogoing has attempted to detail the contact of NOVEL

with FURE, FURR's connection with BASI, and a possible

comnection betwean BASI's organisation and RAMPART'S.

The following indicates the only ClA involvement in the chain

which might he expinited in subsequent attempto to lini clA

to the entire alíair la gueatios.!

On 29 April 1963, Robert I.

Owen, tasa Gaiet, Wa/3 and

non al faris Station, dixottadt memorandum to the chiefy

1616?

SECREJ

NW 65924 Docld:32366460 Page 3

---

## Page 4

SEGRET

WH/6 in which he documented a dorversation he had on

27 April 1963, with Raymond CASSAGNOL) an anti-Duvalier

exile from Haiti. In the memorandur be relates that the

conversation took place is the home of Richard In, BAST

whom Owen had met threugh a neighbos, Lloyd FURR.

The memorandum relates CASSAGNOL'a background, family,

political stance, etc.

Reported as signticant by Owen l0 a

stetement by BAST that the following weak BAST would be

sending a shipload of arms to & CASSAGNOL-alilliated groap

in the Dominican Republic. Owen noted: "Raymond

CASSAGNOL gives apposrance of thinking well of Richard

BASI. Accoxeing to CASSAGNOL, his brother, Jacques.

also knows BASI and respects hits, This BASI, in splte of

certais personal shortcomings from the intelligence standpoint,

does represent an established channel to at least one segmaest

of the Haltian opposition to Duvalles. Since sccording to his

own statement, BASI la supplyiag arme to CASSAGNOL'S

groups, farther transactions of this type via BASI presumably

would not be diffieull to arrange." He sino provided a detalled

information os what he learned of BAST, noting that BAST had

mentioned Dominican distrust of State and AID and the fact that

"CIA double-croused them" (the Dominicans).

As FBI report On BAST dated 19 June 1963 reporte that Owen,

"Fareign Service Renerye Officer, USDS" (bie cover) bad

reportod 16 May 1963 his attendance at dinzer at BAST'e horse

on 27 April 1963. Owen told of his mesting with CASSAGNOL,

BASI's Istention to sell arran to the Domialcan Republic and

Haltian extles, etc. He alto seposts that as 7 May 1963, BAST

asted bim to perforus some translation work. The tranalation.

he stated, related to BAST glulag a power of attorney to one

LUiS MORENO Martinga of the Dominican Repablle to prepare

documentation for legal establiahment of REDEX CORPORATION,

C POR A, & DR branch of BAST's firra, According to Owes,

40% of the stock was to be held by the head of the DR National

Security Agency, the head of the DR secret police, and as

individual well-comnected with Dominican Republic police and

intelligence groups. BASI is also noted to have told Owen

ol an aller JASI had made to "bu!" the office of the Dominica!

SECRET

NW 65924 Docld:32366460 Page 4

---

## Page 5

(EGRET

Secretary of State for the Armed Forces on behalf of Juan

Bosch. BAST did not indicate to Owen li had performed

the job.

(There is no record of a clearance having been issued los

atilizatian of Richard L. BAST OF REDEX.)

SECRET

NW 65924 Docld:32366460 Page 5

---

