# DOCID-32411807

## Page 1

104-10177-10020

14. +0 0244-25115

-- an

отю;

I FLORIS-

UNHT :

ExT

3997

DATE •

(27 ALGIST 2959

CLASS:FIED MESSAGE

SÄCH.T

26130/00 TIUS: CO'TRO

т.

DeFERREO AND 21

108551

ROUTINE

..C'O CABLE SEC!.

CONd.

WH 5

lessons

aos repost

Barr

INFO,

61, C1/OPS, 51, FU/ROM 3, S/C 2

OPERATONAL

IMMEDIATE

Darters

CJT99344

1 т0

INFO

CITEDIT.

MOTORN/CONTINUXI CONTROL

TROKA

PARA. 2 - CUBA, HABAN

MICHOFILNEO

2 3 1569

DOC. MIC:O.

PARA. 2 - PAMAMA, PAIL CITY

LATE OF INTO: 10 & 24 AUGUST 1953

BJECT

W.

& FINANCIAL TRATSACTICAS CY DOLINICK BARTON

XAAZ=2891

HIT 1. A FAÍRII RELIABLE SOURCE, WiO IS OYFOSED TO TH

SOVIET OF PINET

-"CASTRO RUZ, PRIME MINISTER OF CUSA, FAS REPORTED

ON 10 AUGUST 1959 MAJOR

MELALAY ALICATOS ORGAY DET LETTI A CROUP O

DY POSED TO CASTROIS REGDIE

IN DIALE, FLORIDA. THE HARTIMO HAS HELD ME THE LONE OF DOORSE I.

055,

-A1,236 CHASE AVENUR, "IN'I DRACH.

POM PITAR DEE RIO PROVICE IN CUPA RUN VISTASS ANO ANTONTO EDOZA. JURINA

TIE MEETING POROAN HAS OIVEA, $1LO, 000 IN CASH BI MESTRE AND HENDOZA JOE USE

MAINST CASTRO. (HEADSANTERS CONTE. IN MICH 195S AY UNTESTID SOURCE RAPORTED.

THAT ONE DOTERLE BARRONE,

•ALSO STONY AS MICK BURTON AND DESCRIBED 1S A PROSPEROUS

AMERICAT BUSINASSHAM PROM CLEVELAND, OUTO, HAS TRYINO TO SELI SONS OLORSHASTER (C. ILe!"

TH) : INCRIST TO TUE CUBAL REVOLUTIONARI NIR FURCE UND HAD BRININE DOROET:

THE DONICK LAPICTS LINTICHED IN JOUR MEMCRANDUH DATED 6 AUGUST 2959, TOUR TILE

NURER 105-70973, COTCET ITO LORDAY, DOMINIC S, BARTONE, DOMINIC NETONTE, MICTE

RETURNTO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

PRIPADÍNO OPAICIA

KOTORY/COATHYTO CONTENT

TOR" 1389 g

REPRODUCTION BY ATHELSTAN IHE, ISSUING: OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy No.

201--25114.5"

Released under the John = Kennedu Assassination Records alection Act o' 194214 Ust Usta Natel CaseiNW CasefiNW Date: Date: 10-2:2up)

УдД

NVY 65987 Docld:32411807 Page 1

---

## Page 2

104-10177-10020

DetO

want.

&IT

DATE .

10

FROM, DiRECTOR

COMP.

1070.

FILA

SLASSIED MESSAGE

-POUTINO

18. Teras irtart one.

1- Poo da la ar? a lessonne

Murance -

"ROUTINE

PRIORITY

OPERATIONAL

IMMEDIATE

тата

OUT 90344

INFO

CITE DIR

BARTOY, AND THE DOMIC DRAMAS INTICHED BUON ARE BELIEVED TO BE TIS gASE

PERSOY.)

• Z0 0N•24 AUGUST A PATPLI RALLAULE SOURCE REPORTED TLAS DOINIC BARTONS (SIC),

N, 1S5 O7YXCS IS JY 1578 ATIONAL BANK FIELDINO IN ICATE, IN SENT A LANTER TO PARAMA

WITH A LARDE ASCUIT OF CASH TO OPEY A CHECKTAG AOCOUNTOTELLE PAYAMA CITY BRANCH

OF TIL NATIONAL CITY BATK. THE BAYK DID NOT ACC

I DATOSIT INADIATELY, BUT

A DICISIOY HAS EXPICTED BY 20 AUGUST. BERTONEY

BLAirSE? HAS PRESSURING THE BAVX

TO NOCEPT THE ACCOUNT. (ECUPCE COMESTE.

IS BSTAVED THAT IS PODS TRAI

BERTOXE'S LANIE TOOS TO PAYAA ARE CORNICTED FITH MILLIAN ASIANDER NORAAT.)

(HEADGUAFT ERS CONCENE. MORGAN PUBLICIT-DICIARED IM MARATA THAT II HAD RECEIVED

875,000 FROM TICS COUNTERARSTOLUTIO:'ARIES FOR USE AGAINST CASTRO, THE JUNDS SENT

TO PARAMA CITY MAY BE TE DIITIRSICE BETVETI TIE ANOUNT DECIARED BI HORDAY AND

WHAT FR ACTUALLY RECAIVAT

3. THX SOURCE OF T:3 INFORILATION IN PARAORAPY: IHO IS SAYSITIVE AND CARE

S'OULD HS ILPRISED IT DIV:ISPING LEADS ON TIJS MATTER.

(800 9 1-93105)

1-08 VIGA-13 PACT/UTIL, IN 17526.

'CRY 1389 0

• •

NOPORY CO FIRED "CONTROL

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER.IHAN.IHE ISSHING.OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

AUTHEMTICATIMO ORDICES

'14L45

SC0.251195

NW 65987 Docld:32411807 Page 2

---

