# DOCID-32412659

## Page 1

104-10179-10016

Heleased under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

55937 Date: 10-28-2021

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

Mr. Juir PM oft

Vicke

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

G3J

•DIRECTOR

ікси , NÜSН

0S

ACTION, HH 9 EUL. MALLARO, WH DIV NOTIFIED 2245, 20 NOV)

NO 1 DE1, 0/651, D0/P, COP, ADOP/1, S/C2

тік:

NOV 21 0336Z 60

PRIORITY

I ASSo ACTION PMORA

PRITY DIR INFO PRITY MAVA CITE MASH 1763

IFORMATIUN

ARN OPS

MET

P&S OPS

INTELL

REF

A MASH 170S (IN UNITS).

PAI CPS

MASH 172S (IN 14543)*

LOG

SECUR

1 EXITINET MENTI AND ORLANDS ALVAREZ MORYING iS YOU.

DID NOT RAISE ISLE OF PINES DEFECTION, PROBABLY ASCAUSE PRESENCE

ALVAREZ.

-Q4-

YEETING CORDIAL BUT DULL.

ACHERPOL ASKED BEIDER GROUP TRAIN

21 MAP YEN NOW MASH IN GENERAL GU TECHNIQUES. SPECIFICALLY WANTED

THE: TRAINED FOR SHORT PERIOD (2-3 WEETS) IN MASH AREA THEN INFILTRATES.

TOY@ITA/STATED HAD NÓ CAPABILITY HANDLE LOGAL TRAINING THIS TYPE, EUT

MIGHT ARRANGE SAB TRAINING FOR SELECTEO FEW AND REGUESTED FULL BIO

DATA OROSPECTIVE TRAINEES. • NO MENTION ESCAMBRAY GROUP REF A.

J.: AT SECOND CONTACT NITH ANCHIRPA ONLY MORNISA 28 NOU, AMI, B9095'?

¡ ISLE OR PIVES DEFECTION, FOLLOWS ADDITIONAL-DSTATES TO REFS B ISS :.

O' A. EMPOTE IN CHARCE REINFORCED CAPSTINIA IETEDIATELY SSN *225E

PRISON. TOTAL STRENGTH 158 MEN, HELIEVES CAN INFLUENCE APPA: 353

YEN CE ADJACENT COMMAND OF ONE "CHINO" C TRUE NAME UNANDINS. EMINO

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER TMAN THE ISSUING OIRCE iS PROM.S."IO.

Сору "=

6/80.

NW 65987 Docld:32412659 Page 1

---

## Page 2

104-10179-10016

CLASSIE -

LOGARTIC LIPLY LOYAL TE CAGES.

PiS: 1763

15 155.0

PAGE.

2

C. SASICALLY PLAY IS TO FREE RUBER MATOS FROM MODEL PRISON.

TiLLY ISLAND GARRISON UNDER HIS ASSIS, HOLD OUT ON ISLISE LONG ENOUSM

TO CID GET SUBSTANTIAL OUTSIDE SUPPORT FRAY IVY AND 4LL SOURCES

CS PROVIDE INSPIRATIGU OTHER REBEL APAY. GARRISONS DO SATE FOR SUGW

BALL EFFRCT.

DO TASTICAL PLANNING INVOLVES SUDDEN OCCUPATICN ALL COPIC •

MISTILLATIONS, AIR'FIELD INSTALLATIONS, CIVIL ADMINISTRATION, MODSI.

PILEU!, MILITARY MOS RESPONSIBLE DESEUSE. MODEL PRISON, MOS DE ALL

CR0IO0, COMMANDS NORTH OF LAVIER SWATP AND NAVAL STATICE AT NIEVA

04

.. (CAPSTA DEPENDING OU MORO MIL CONMANDER MODEL PRISON TO SIVE

MiCHAE OOPOSE MY SERIOUS ATTEMPT SREE HI35R TATOS. THIS PROMISE.

SUPPRABOLY M.:DE BOTH

-TO HUBER AND MUSER WIFE. CAPOTE HAS CUT IN. 1E OU

C.1:ERS :IS COMANDA, EXPECTS APPROX SO MORE TO SIDE. WITH HIM. CADNTE

FSES MILE BE ATLE CARRY APPROX 3,248 05 ESTIMATED 3, 6E% ISLAVD

SARDiSCH PITH. HIM IN FIRST 24 HRS:

P. ARCHIRP-I STATED COUP 19 PLAVVEO.

BEGIN LATE AFTERNOCO ET NOV.

A. NECUERPOL ABAIN REQUESTED AID SSUTZALIZE REBEL AIR FOUCS AV

A-SIGTAICE PROVIDE SUOPLIES, SALTY COMMENTIO THAT TO HIS CERTAIN

NiONESE: THE REQUEST HAD ALPEANY BEEN PUT IN CHANNELS, (SMITH ADDED

THAT HIS "PROSESSIONAL ESTIGATE" ÜNS THAT IF, GROUP ACTUALLY SERIDYS".

ARU:" SO NOU DATE, THEY HAS BETTER ES PREPARSO HOLO OUT INITIALLY

REPROOUCTION EY OTHER TILAN THE ISSUINE EFFIGE IS PROMIBITES

6/BR

NW 65987 Docld:32412659 Page 2

---

## Page 3

104-10179-10016

MASH iTÓ3

45370

FERT: TUDN OU TESL DRI RESOURCES BEGAUSE OF LOGISTIC PROFLENS

PIGRO dY ANY SOLIORE DE PIRO NO GUILMENTS MADE IOS ASYTHIVS SAID

THAT COILÁ ME CONSTRUÇD AS A COTTIISIT.

SO AÑCHIOR-I SAID COURIERS RETURIYO TO CURA ZI NON WITH

CA) MIO PROTISES DO EVERYTHING THEY COULD TO HELP. &BI ANCHIRP-L'S

PROFASSIONAL RECCUMENDATIONS (ROAD BLICKS, TIMING, TARSSIS, ETC.)

DY NOW TO EFFECT SEIZURE OF THE ISLAND.

END OF MESSAGE

C/S COMMENT:* MASH reported that AACHIRP -l (1) etated ihat the group in

Escambray was ready asd malting for arme.

oo MASH stared that a contact with Manolo Ray on the evening of

17 November revealed that the isle of Pince wae the targot mentionod in MASH 1701

(IN 44034)880

oto A courlor wee advieed by Ray that abo'it 2, 000 woll armed rebel

forces were ready to turn againet Caatro.

..=.

,.t.

=...

REPRODUCT O EY &

A:.. AG OFFIGE IS PROMIBITE

NW 65987 Docld:32412659 Page 3

---

