# DOCID-32371627

## Page 1

• 40

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY

: CIA

RECORD NUMBER

: 104-10161-10435

RECORD SERIES

: JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

80T01357A

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM

: WH/C/CO

TO

: DIRECTOR OF SECURITY

TITLE

:

SUBJECT: VLADIMIR RODRIGUEZ LAHERA - ADMISSION TO THE

J.S. OF WIFE AND TWO MINOR CHILDREN.

DATE

PAGES

2

SUBJECTS : RODRIGUEZ, VLAD

DOCUMENT TYPE

: PAPER

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET

RESTRICTIONS : 1A

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

:11/16/97

COMMENTS

: JFK45

: F19: 1997.11.16.14:33:01:530102

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 44 USC 2107 Notel. Case# Nw

65987 Date: 10-28-2021

[R]

- ITEM

IS RESTRICTED

104-10161-10435

NW 65987 Docld:32371627 Page 1

---

## Page 2

UNCRASSIFIED

INTERNAL

ONLY

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

CONF!- "NTIAL

SECRET

SUBJECT: (Optional)

FROM:

WH/C/MO/FI-CI

-

TO: (Officer designation, room number.

building)

1.

C/WH/C/MO/FI-CI

2.

WH/C/ MO

3.

WH/ SEC

4.

S. WH/C/CO' (signature)

Director of Security

7.

8.

.

10.

11.

12.

13.

EXTENSION

115°

7147

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

DATE

RECEIVED

FORWARDED

12

NO

DATE

12 April 1965

COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom

to

whom.

Draw a line across column after each comment.)

Moc

418

Fyl: One files

electe no degater.

infantin du slebecti

fore Wife and chiller

14.

15.

FORM

3-62

610

USE FREVIOUS

EDTIONS

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

NW 65987 Docld:32371627 Page 2

---

## Page 3

SECRET

WH/C 65-166

12 April 1965

MEMORANDUM FOR:

ATTENTION

SUBJECT

Director of Security

: Alien Affairs Staff

: Vladimir RODRIGUEZ Lahera - Admission to the U.S.

of Wife and Two Minor Children

1.

Subject is a former staff employee of the Cuban Intelligence

Service who defected to the free world in Ottawa, Canada on 21 April

1964.

Subject had been planning his defection for some time and

accordingly he brought with him a large amount of classified material

which

As a result of his defection the

Agency was the recipient of extremely valuable information on the

Cuban

Intelligence Services both in Cuba and in the Western Hemisphere.

Since April 1964 Subject has continued to be of high value to the

Agency and continues to assist us in every way possible.

2.

It has now been learned that Subject's family (Wife and two

minor children by her first marriage) are expected to depart Cuba

for Mexico on 14 April 1965.

In view of the imminent arrival of

Subject's dependents it is requested that entry be arranged for the

family in as expeditious

a manner

as possible. While normal entry

can be achieved under section 212(D) (5) of the Immigration and

Nationality act it is felt that due to involvement with the Depart-

ment of State and the requirement of National Agency Checks, the

admission to the U.S. of Subject's family might be delayed.

The expeditious, rather than routine, handling of the

visas of Subject's family is of importance for Subject's morale

and because Subject, himself, should spend a minimum of time in

Mexico for security and operational reasons.

Further, his proximate

operational use is anticipated and any delays in arranging for entry

of his dependents could result in the delay or cancellation of

planned operational activities.

4. It is, therefore, requested that Alien Affairs Staff

arrange with Immigration and Naturalization Service for the prompt

admission into the U.S. of Subject's family once they arrive in

Mexico City.

Thomas

Flores

WH/C/CO

SECRET

NW 65987 Docld:32371627 Page 3

---

