# DOCID-32175216

## Page 1

Date: 08/04/94

Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

RECORD

AGENCY : FBI

NUMBER: 124-10181-10312

RECORDS SERIES :

PD

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 62-3144-9 THRU 13

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR :

FROM :

TO :

TITLE

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Flecords Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

65994 Date: 11-01-2021

DATE : 00/00/00

PAGES:

SUBJECTS

NAR

DOCUMENT TYPE

CLASSIFICATION

:

RESTRICTIONS: NOT ASSASSINATION RELATED

CURRENT STATUS

* P

DATE

• OF LAST REVIEW

: 08/04/94

OPENING CRITERIA :

INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NW 65994 Docld:32175216 Page 1

---

## Page 2

Date: August 2, 2021

From: National Archives and Records Administration

Subject: Reconstructed FBI File PD 62-3144, Serials 9-13

To: The File

This memorandum briefly summarizes the status of missing original Federal Bureau of

Investigation (FBI) case files in the President John F. Kennedy Assassination Records

Collection (JFK Collection) and documents the National Archives and Records Administration's

(NARA) efforts to reconstruct these records, where possible, from duplicate copies of

documents located in other FBI files.

As the JFK Collection was first compiled and reviewed in the 1990s, the Assassination Records

Review Board and the FBI designated some records as "not believed relevant" (NBR) or "not

assassination related" (NAR). The FBI retained custody of the NBR/NAR records and

postponed their transfer to NARA until a later date. Every document or group of documents

("serials"), however, received an indexed Record Identification Form (RIF) and FBI inventory

sheet for insertion into the JFK Collection.

In September 2011, several years prior to the 2017 re-review and transfer of the NBR/NAR

material to the National Archives, a flood severely damaged thousands of feet of records at the

FBI's Alexandria Records Center in Alexandria, Virginia. In June 2012, NARA approved the

FBI's request for emergency destruction of 10,000 cubic feet of records that posed significant

airborne health hazards. Among the damaged records were FBI field office files that contained

postponed JFK Collection material designated as "pertaining to a matter unrelated to the JFK

Assassination Investigation", or "not assassination related."

This compilation represents NARA's efforts to reconstruct the original file, as completely as

possible, with duplicate copies of documents located in the FBl field office and headquarters

files within the JFK Collection. Each reconstructed file or compilation contains a Record

Identification Form, an explanatory cover memo, existing administrative documents available

vithin the JFK Collection, and copies of identified duplicate documents. The table belon

summarizes the status of FBI file PD 62-3144, Serials 9 through 13.

RIF Number

FBI File

Number

124-10181-10312 PD 62-3144

List of Serials

From Inventory

Sheet

List of Identified

Serials at NARA

9-13

9-13

Reconstructed

Status (None,

Partial,

Complete)

Complete

NW 65994 Docld:32175216 Page 2

---

## Page 3

FEDKRAL BURKAU OF INVESTIGATION

POSTPONEHENT INFORMATION SHEET (JFK MATERIALS)

9

[]

[]

Page (s) withheld entirely at this location in the file.

One of more of the following statements, where indicated,

explain this deletion (these deletions).

Deletions were made pursuant to the postponement

rationale indicated below with no segregable material

available for disclosure. All references relate to

Section 6 of the "President John F. Kennedy Assassination

Records Collection Act of 1992."

[]

Subsection 1A (intelligence agent's identity)

[] Subsection 1B (intelligence source or method)

[] Subsection 1C

(other matter relating to military

defense, intelligence operations or

the conduct of foreign relations)

[] Subsection 2

(living person who provided

confidential information)

[] subsection 3

(unwarranted invasion of privacy)

[)

Subsection 4

(cooperating individual or foreign

government, currently requiring

protection)

[] Subsection 5

(security or protective procedure,

currently or expected to be utilized).

Information pertained to a matter unrelated to the JFK

Assassination investigation.

For your information:

The following number is to be used for reference

regarding this page (these pages) :

PD 62-3144-91479

xXXXXXXXXX

XXXXXXXXXX

xXxxXxXXXX

XxXxXXXXXX

xXXXXXXXXX

XXXXXXXXXX

NW 65994 Docld:32175216 Page 3

---

## Page 4

File #:

Serial

Number

NW 65994

Docld:32175216

Page

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

Page:

PD

62-3144

Document

Date

Document

Type

Document

01/06/77

TT

01/14/77

AT

01/26/77 TT

02/11/77 TT

02/14/77 TT

04/01/77

MEMO

04/12/77 LHM

04/12/77

MEMO

11/15/77 TT

11/25/77

LHM

11/25/77

MEMO

12/19/77

LHM

12/19/77

MEMO

06/07/78 TT

06/05/78 TT

06/07/78

TT

HQ

PD

HQ

HQ

CHRYSSATHI

PD

PD

HQ

PD

PD

PD

HQ

Document

ALL SACS

HQ

ALL SACS

BA

PD

PD

HQ

HQ

AL

HQ

HQ

HQ

HQ

ALL OFF

AL

HQ

3rd

Agy

JFK Inventory Sheet

(Committees

Files)

Section #: _1

Other

Direct

Dupes

ACTUAL PERT. Rev.

Re:

HSCA

With- FBI Ref

Rel.

held

3rd Agy

Duplicate

Location

62-117290-35

62-117290-105

62-117290-117

-

-

62-117290-194

62-117290-194

62-117290-303

62-117290-317

62-117290-317

62-117290-407

62-117290-407

62-117290-815

62-117290-832

62-117290-912

Postponements

NONE

NONE

NONE

NONE

NONE

NONE

NONE

NONE

NAR

NAR

NAR

NAR

NAR

NONE

NAR

NAR

---

## Page 5

NW 65994 Docld:32175216 Page 5

Grand Tota

End of Report

37

38

---

## Page 6

TELETYPE

ROUTINE

CLEAR

EM DIRECTOR

TO ALBANY (ROUTINE)

JACKSONVILLE (ROUTINE)

MEMPHIS (ROUTINE)

NEW ORLEANS (ROUTINE)

11/15/77

1 - Mr.. Monahan

Mr. Peelman

fas

Mr. Foster

Mr. Aldhizer

1 - Inspection Div. (Attn:

T. E. DuHadway).

1 - Identification Div. (Attn.:

G. J. Bonebrake)

1 - Legal Counsel Div.

NEW YORK (ROUTINE)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

PORTLAND (ROUTINE)

COMMUNIGATIONS SEOTION

BT

NOV 15.1977

5:

CLEAR

TELETYPE

CHOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS (HSCA)

IN CONNECTION WITH INVESTIGATION BY THE HSCA INTO THE

ASSASSINATION OF MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR., THE STAFF MEMBERS OF

THE HSCA HAVE REQUESTED TO INTERVIEW THE FOLLOWING AGENTS:

SA WILLIAM F. KUSCH - PORTLAND DIVISION

SA THOMAS I. COLARELLI - NEW ORLEANS DIVISION

SA PATRICK J. COLLINS. - NEW YORK DIVISION

REC 701202/17290-30÷

SA RENE DUMAINE (FORMER) - ALBANY

ST-138

11 NOV 17.1977

Assoç. Dire

Dep. AD Adn. =

(20)

SEE NOTE PAGE 4

• Dep. AD Inv._

Asst. Dir.:

Adm. Serv.==

Crim, Inv.

Fin. & Porsonai

TARAN •IAG

P

Ident. =

APPROVED!

Adm Serv.

hail com fell F

Flan. & Insp

Intell. =

Labaratory =

Fin. & Feron

Legal Cour.

Dirastor.

Assod, Dire...

Tech,-SerVSe.

Plan.

& Insp.-=

ätell;

Rec Mgnt. =.

Laboratory-

Fairing =

Spoc. Inv, =m.

Public Affs, Olfume

Téch. Servs.=.

Training a

ALL INTE

TO COITATED

Publle Affs. Offeri

Telephöne Rm, ==

Director's See

ww. 55046NOV 25 TUY FOON L

1018.3298994

TELETYPE UNIT

Page 132

NW 65994

Docld:32175216 Page 6

---

## Page 7

PAGE TWO

CLEAR

SA RAMON W. STRATTON - PORTLAND DIVISION

SA ROBERT C. HAINES - JACKSONVILLE DIVISION

SA JOE C. HESTER (FORMER) - MEMPHIS DIVISION

AGENT COLARELLI IS SCHEDULED FOR INTERVIEW ON MONDAY,

NOVEMBER J4, 1977. AGENTS COLLINS AND. HAINES ARE SCHEDULED

FOR INTERVIEW ON TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 1977. AGENTS KUSCH

AND STRATTÓN ARE SCHEDULED FOR INTERVIEW ON THURSDAY,

NOVEMBER 17, 1977.

ALBANY CONTACT FORMER SA DUMAINE, ] NORTH CENTER LANE,

BALLSTON, NEW YORK, AND DETERMINE EARLIEST POSSIBLE DATE HE

MAY BE INTERVIEWED BY THE COMMITTEE. MEMPHIS OFFICE CONTACT

FORMER SA HESTER, 97 EAST LAFAYETTE CIRCLE, MEMPHIS;

TENNESSEE, AND DETERMINE EARLIEST POSSIBLE DATE FOR HIS

INTERVIEW. ALBANY AND MEMPHIS SUTEL RESULTS OF CONTACT WITH

DUMAINE AND HESTER.

ALL OF THE ABOVE NAMED AGENTS HAVE BEEN RELEASED FRÒM

EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT AND ARE AUTHORIZED TO PARTICIPATE IN -

HSCA INTERVIEW. AGENTS SHOULD REPORT IO FBIHQ ON THE DAY

PRIOR TO SCHEDULED INTERVIEW. REPORT TO ROOM 3659 OR 8988

= 2

MW 55050

DocId: 32989748

NW G5994-Docld:32175216 Page Y

Page 133

---

## Page 8

PAGE THREE

C

LEAR

FOR INSTRUCTIONS REGARDING THE INTERVIEW. SA DANNY O.

COULSON OF THE LEGAL COUNSEL DIVISION WILL MAKE ARRANGEMENTS

FOR STAFF INTERVIEWS.

BT

3

Page. 134

NW 65994 Docld:32175216 Page 8

---

## Page 9

7. * PAGE FOUR

CLEAR

NOTE: By letter dated 10/7/77, the HSCA requested to

interview 32 Agents in connection with review of the King

assassination investigation. By Legal Counsel memorandum

to the Associate Director dated 10/25/77, approval for

Interviews and release from employment agreement were

granted.

un 11/0/1. Michael Ebernardt, HSCA, advised that

is committèe desired to begin, as soon

as possible,

interviews with ten Agents named in the 10/1/77, request,

seven of whom are named in instant teletype.

Other Agents

to be interviewed on a priority basis are SA I. E. DuHadway,

Planning and Inspection Division,

Wednesday, 11/16/77,

ms. G. J. Bonebrake, Identification Division, date not

determined and former SA Robert Frazier, Hillcrest Heights;

Maryland.

SA Frazier has been contacted through the

Baltimore Division and arrangements for interview will be

handled at a later dated through Congressional Inquiry Unit,

FBIHQ.

This teletype confirms telephonic notification to all

offices concerning this matter on 11/9/77.

SeN 000 000x1030989748_ Page 135

NW 65994 Docld:32175216 Page 9

---

## Page 10

FD-36 (Rev. 7-27e76)

TRANSMIT VIA:

• Teletype

• Facsimile

[& Airtel

..

• FBiT,

PRECEDENCE:

• Immediate

• Priority

§ Routine

CLASSIFICATION:

• TOP SECRET

I SECRET

O CONFIDENTIAL

JEFTO

CLEAR

• Date

11/25/77

TO :

FROM:

SUBJECT:

DIRECTOR, FBI

(ATTN: LEGAL COUNSEL DIVISION)

SAG, PORTLAND (62-3144)

HOUSE SELECI COMMITTEE

ON ASSASSINATIONS.

Enclosed herewith are five (5) copies of an LHM

concerning interview by members of captioned Committee

investigating the assassination of DI. MARTIN LUTHER KING, JI.

with SA RAMON W. STRATTON of the Portland Division, formerly.

Bureau (Enc. 5) ENCLOSURE

Portland

RWS : lme

(4)

" BACHOSURE ATACHE 135

REG:2I

62-117290-3171

11: NOV 28 1977

ATT J

2240/83 -

LEGIO SPUNSEL:

26.59

VINE

Approve

NW 65994- Docld:32175216 Page 10

Transmitted

Per -

(Number)

(Time)

---

## Page 11

NY 55050 DocTaH32989748Fage

NW 65994 Docld:32175216 Page 11

1 22:

•31?

---

## Page 12

In Reply, Please Refer to

File' No.

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

• FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Portland, Oregon

November

25, 1977

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

On November 16, 1977, SA Ramon W. Stratton of

the Portland Division of

the Federal Bureau of Investigation

(FBI) was interviewed at House Annex Number 2 by Mr. William

A. Webb and Mr. Michae. C. Ebechardt, members of the

House select Committee on Assassinations investigating

the assassination of DI. Martin Luther King, Jr.

The interview with SA Stratton related to

investigations conducted by the Chicago Field Division

of the FBI to which SA Stratton was assigned at that time.

No written memorandum was furnished to SA Stratton to

refresh his recollection.

Many of the questions centered around the

possibility that Jerry Ray, brother of James Earl Ray,

may have been involved in a conspiracy to assassinate

Dr. King. The Chicago Field Division of the FBl established

that on April 3 and 4, 1968 (the latter being the date of

assassination of Dr. King), Jerry Ray was gainfully

employed and present in the vicinity of Chicago, Illinois.

to refresh his recollection.

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions

of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to your

agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside

your agency.

1%

i Sands

Spinacau

.. NW 55050 DocId: 32989748 Page 114

NW 65994 Docld:32175216 Page 12

---

## Page 13

TO

OPTIONAL FORM ND.10 =

MAYJAZ EDITION

GSA FPMR (41 CFR) 101-11.8

UNITED STATES GO

ERNMENT

Memorandum

DIRECTOR, FBI (62-117290)

ATTN: OFFICE OF LEGAL COUNSEL

DATE:

12/19/77

TRONG/RE

SAC, PORTLAND (62-3144)

SUBJECT:

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS (HSCA)

Enclosed

herewith are five copies of an IHM relative

to the interview, of

SA WILLIAM F. KUSCH, Portland Division, by

staff members of, the HSCA in Washington, D.C., on 11/16/77.

Bureau (Encs:

- Portland

WEK: ja

(4)

.St:220

REC-63

62-117-270-407

31-78

3651

530 rs

Dismagni

ZAR 20197678-12-172

3010-108-02.

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan !

NW 55051

DocId: 32989749 Page 53.

NW 65994-06ed 2175216-Page 19v

---

## Page 14

In Reply, Please Refer 10

File No.

UNITED

STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Portland, Oregon

December 19, 1977

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

On November 16, 1977, SA William F. Kusch of the

Portland Division öf the Federal Bureau Of Investigation (FBI)

was interviewed at House Annex #2 in Washington, D.C., by Mr. Mark

Speiser and Mr. Peter Beeson,

members of the House Select Committee

on Assassinations, investigating the assassination of Dr. Martin

Luther King, Jr.

The interview with SA Kusch dealt with a period of

time SA Kusch was assigned to the New Orleans Division of the

FBI, specifically April, 1968.

During April of 1968, SA Kusch,

along with numerous other Special Agents assigned to

the New Orleans

Division, conducted many interviews with persons who had, or who

might have had, knowledge of the áctivities or contacts of James

Earl Ray during the period of time Ray, using the name Eric Galt,

was in New Orleans.

Specifically, SA Kusch was questioned regarding his

squad assignments in New Orleans, the identities of other squad

members, the identity of his supervisor, his Agent in charge and

his assistant Agent in charge at the time.

Further, SA Kusch was questioned relative to the

content of several interview report forms (FD 302s) concerning

interviews that he conducted and prepared appropriate FD 302s

in connection therewith, or FD 302s covering interviews that he

was a party to:

exhibited

said FD 302s to SA Kusch to refresh his memory.

House Select Committee members in essence apparently

desired SA Kusch

to amplify or further expand on these interviews.

AT.T, I.

I ..

ad de thes

Trade

12/30159

Братафтка

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions

of the FBI.

It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to your

agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside

your agency.

ENGLOSUNG/

i107

62-1172907

AW 55051 DocId: 32989749 Page 54

NW 09994-DocId:2175216 Page 14-

---

## Page 15

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

SA Kusch pointed out that as a result of the passage of nine and

one-half years, for the most part he could not specifically recall

the persons interviewed.

To specific questions regarding the

interviews, SA Kusch could only point out that if additional

questions had been asked of these persons interviewed at the time,

resulting in the receipt of any positive or pertinent information

regarding Galt, that information would have been duly recorded

on said FD. 302s.

Both Mr. Speiser and Mr. Beeson were cordial and SA

Kusch responded to their questions in a candid manner.

2

NW 55051

DocId: 32989749 Page 55

NW 05994 Doeld: 2175216-Page 15

---

