# DOCID-32271655

## Page 1

+09-16-96ccr

JFK RECORDS

Cross Reference: None

Status in System:

AGENCY : HSCA

ECORD NUMBER : 180-10142-1035

ECORD SERIES : CIA SEGREGAIED COLLECIIO

CEO ARORATED COZLECTTON

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 24-17-01

Other Agency Equity: None

-—--

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : HSCA

FROM :

TO :

TITLE :

DATE: 00/00/00

PAGES

: 6

DOCUMENT TYPE

: REPORT

SUBJECT (S)

¡ i PASSPORTS AND VISAS, OSWALD, LEE;

CLASSIFICATION

UNCLASSIFIED

RESTRICTIONS

: 2

CURRENT STATUS

POSTPONED IN PART

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 08/09/95

COMMENTS : Box 15; HSCA #014742

Date in: 01/26/96

FT F

F

F F F

F

FF F

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1 992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

E6000 Date: 11-04-2021

NW 66000 Docld:32271655 Page 1

---

## Page 2

Classification: -

(This form is to be used for material extracted

from CIA -controlled documents.)

Soviet Visa

HELSINKI-VijA

cite checkered

12/20/78

ДДД :

Robert S. Anson, author of "They've Killed the

President! The Search for the Murderers of John F. Kennedy,"

offered a critical appraisal of Lee Harvey Oswald's travel

through Western Europe prior to his appearance in Moscow

on October 16, 1959. Anson expressed particular concern

over the issuance of a Soviet tourist visa in Helsinki,

Finland to Oswald prior to his entry into the Soviet Union.

Anson wrote that "Lo/n Monday, October 12, Oswald went

•to the Soviet Consulate and applied for a visa. It was

granted two days later!' (Anson, p. 159) /

Anson concluded:

Oswald also managed to secure a Soviet

visa in record time. The CIA told the

anage to.

Commission that under ordinary circum-

stances obtaining a visa in Finland

took one or two weeks; Oswald got his

in two days. (Ibia., p. 160)*

* Anson was referring to the Warren Commission Report where it

is stated:

The Department of State has advised the Commission

that it has

some information that in 1959 it usually

took an American tourist in Helsinki

1 to 2 weeks to

obtain a visa, and that it has other information that

the normal waiting period during the past 5 years has

been a week or less.

According to the Department's

information, the waiting period has always varied fre-

quently and widely, with one confirmed instance in 1963

of a visa routinely issued in less than 24 hours. The

Central Intelligence Agency has indicated (continued)

2C:1199

Classification: -

Classified by derivation:

NW 66000 ould:322mlm Pager

---

## Page 3

Classification: - - 2 -

(This form is to be used for material extracted

from CIA -controlled documents.)

Thus, the issue has arisen whether Oswald's receipt

of a Soviet visa prior to his entry into the Soviet Union

was an

"odd happening" as Anson characterized it; circum-

stantial evidence tending to show that Oswald had received

special assistance in order to enter the Soviet Union.

# During the course of its investigation the Warren Commission

shared Anson's concerns.: In a

letter-to the CIA dated May

25.

1964 J. Lee Rankin Inguared about the apparent speed

with which Oswald's soviet. visa

was issueds Rankin noted

that he had recently spoken with Abraham Chayes of the

that

State Department who contended at the time Oswald received

in

his visa to enter Russia from the Soviet Embassy at Helsinki,

at least one week ordinarily transpired between the time

of a tourist's application for a visa and the issuance of

* (continued from previous page)

that visas during the 1964 tourist season were being granted

• in about 5 to 7 days.

This information from the Department of State and the Central

Intelligence Agency thus suggests that Oswald's wait for a

visa may have

been shorter than usual but not beyond the

range of possible variation.

The prompt issuance of Oswald's

visa may have been merely the result of normal procedures,

due in part to the fact that the summer rush had ended.

It might also mean that Oswald was unusually urgent in

his

demands that his visa be issued promptly. Oswald himself

told officials at the American Embassy in Moscow on October

31, when he appeared to renounce his citizenship, that he had

said nothing to the Soviets about defecting until he arrived

in Moscow.

In any event, the Commission has found nothing

2on2Shrcumstances of Oswald's entry into the Soviet Union

Classification:

which indicates that he was

at the time an agent for the

U.S. S.R. (WCR, p. 258)

Classified by derivation:

NW 66000. Lkondld:32271022

Pages

---

## Page 4

Classification: -

(This form is to be used for material extracted

from CIA -controlled documents.)

the visa.

Rankin contended that if Chayes' assessment

was

accurate, then Oswald's obtaining his tourist visa

in from two to four days might have been very significant.{J.Lcka.km

Pettits

Rankin also stated that from CIA material supplied

DDPU-

7676

to the Warren Commission, the Commission had concluded

that Oswald arrived in Helsinki by plane from London on

Saturday, October 10, 1959, and that Oswald had received

his Soviet tourist visa on Wednesday, October 14, 1959,

departing by train for the Soviet Union on October 15.* EIbid.]

Rankin noted that the Commission was interested in

Soviet

learning whether Oswald did in fact obtain his tourist

visa more quickly than was somal at that

time. for the

Seviet Embassy in Helsinki. (We letter by I bee Rankin to

Richard Helms DDP4-2676- 25 May 1964)

The CIA respondevide Rankin's request for, information About

DoVIEt VISA

on July 31, 196450

Procsclures

Richard Helms wrote to Rankin that the Soviet consu-

late in Helsinki was able to issue a transit visa (valid for

24

hours) to U.S. businessmen within five minutes.but if a

longer stay were intended at least one week was needed to

process a visa application and arrange lodging through

* Assuming Oswald arrived in Helsinki on October 10, under normal

conditions: the earliest he would have been able to apply for

a Soviet tourist visa would have been the first working day

ater October 12;: i.e. October 12.

Classification: -

20.12)1

Classified by derivation:

NW 66000 Lond: 3227102020

Pages

---

## Page 5

Classification: -

_4-

(This form is to be used for material extracted

from CIA - controlled documents.)

soviet

letter

INTOURIST.

/(Richard Helms to J. Lee Rankin, DDP4-3916, 31

July 1964) A second communication from Helms to Rankin

dated September 14, 1964 added that during the 1964 tourist

season, Soviet Consulates in at least some Western European

cities issued Soviet tourist visas in from five to seven

letter

days. (betterg of Richard Helms to J. Lee Rankin, DDP4-4775,

14 September 1964)

In an effort to resolve this issue, the Committee

has reviewed add

a files maintained by the CIA which

sheds further light on the circumstances surrounding issuance

of Oswald's Soviet tourist visa. The CIA file concerns

Gregorty Golub, Soviet Consul. in Helsinki at the time Oswala

was issued his tourist visa. (CIA DOCS. OFHA-3939, 2 July

1959, OCOA-3745, 21 April 1959, OFHA-4132, 9 October 59)

Golub's file reveals that in addition to his Consular acti-

vities, he was bespected to bean Officer of the soviet KGB.

J (OCOW-2907, 26 June 1959, OFHW-2937, 21 September 1959)

Two CIA dispatches from Helsinki concerning Golub

are of particular significance with regard to the time neces-

sary for issuance of visas to Americans for travel into the

Soviet Union.

The first dispatch records that

Golub disclosed dur-

ing a luncheon conversation that: ''"

2C.1212

Classification: -

Classified by derivation:

NW 66000 Lkouid:3227116 Pages

---

## Page 6

Classification: -

-5 -

(This form is to be used for material extracted

from CIA - controlled documents.)

"Moscow had given him the authority to

give Americans visas

without prior appro-

val from Moscow.

(Golub) stated that

this would make his job much easier, and

as long as he was convinced the American

was "all right" he could give him a visa

in a matter of minutes...."*

emphasis

The second CIA Dispatch dated October 9, 1959, one

day prior to Oswald's arrival in Helsinki, illustrates

that Golub did have the authority to issue visas without

delay. The Dispatch discusses telephone contact between

Golub and his Consular counterpart at the American Embassy

in Helsinki. In part the Dispatch discloses:

"

...Since that evening (September 4, 1959)

Golub has only phoned

(the US consul) once

and this was on a business matter.

Americans were in the Soviet Consulate at

the time and were applying for Soviet visas

thru (sic.) Golub.

They had previously

been in the American consulate inquiring

about the possibility of obtaining a soviet

visa in one or two days.

(The U.S. Consul)

advised them to go directly to Golub and

make their request, which they did. Golub

Golub

phoned (the U.S. Consul) to state that he

would give them their visas as soon as they

made advance Intourist reservations. When

they did this, Golub immediately raventhem

their visas...." (OFHA-4132,

9 Oct. 1959) ** V

* The Dispatch does not define the meaning given by Golub

to the term "all right."

** Evidently, Oswald had made arrangements with Intourist because

upon his arrival at

Moscow railroad station on October 16, he

was met by an Intourist representative and taken to the Hotel

Berlin where he registered

Classification as a student. (W p. 691)

20.12.3

Classified by derivation:

MW 66000 Lould: 3227110220-Paged

---

## Page 7

Classification: -

- 6 -

(This form is to be used for material extracted

from CIA - controlled documents.)

Thus, based upon these additional two factors: 1)

Golub's authority to issue visas to Americans without prior

this

approval from Moscow, and 2) a demonstration of the authority, as

reported ina ciA dispatch,

approximately one month prior to Oswald's appearance at

the Soviet Embassy, the Committee has found that the available

155 crit it

evidence tends to support the conclusion that^Oswald's

tourist visa within two to four days after his appearance

unite

at the Soviet Consulate, were somewhat suspect, does not

warrant the belief that Oswald's travel into the soviet

Union was assisted by others, particularly the Soviets.

However, the possibility of assistance cannot be dismissed

due to Golub's probable connection with the KGB and the

necessary

lack of other substantive information available to definitely

confirm that Oswald's visa was handled in a manner similar

to that of the two American students who

Chad entered the

soviet Union with Golub's assistance, via Finiand.

20-12-11

Classification: -

Classified by derivation:

ANW 66000 Lord:32272 Paged

---

