# DOCID-32324514

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/8/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90029-10006

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 100-407808-1

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

MI

TO : HQ

TITLE:

Heleased under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

66000 Diate: 11-03-2021

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

12/24/1953

3

* KENNETH D. HEITKAMP

THOMAS R. PEASNER

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 3

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/15/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF USA

COMMENTS :

MEMO;

v9.1

NW 66000 Docld:32324514 Page 1

---

## Page 2

STANDARD FORM NO, 64

SECURITY IRTORMATICN - CONFIZEXAL

Office Memorändum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: December 24, 1953

FROM LEA

SUBJECT:

100-0)

DESI ASSED BY 56108 SLD/ISE

KENNETH

SM - C

RECAP - K

HEITKAMP

18.5-7-95

PART II

(FEL)

UNCLASS PER THEIR

DID

By letter dated November 24, 1953 It. Col. GORDON D. 4-2/-94

Headquarters, Chicago, enclosed the record of the interrogation of

BUCKLEN, Chief, Counter Intellizence Dividion, Que Section, Sth iny 5005-49

from the Army on Octöber 23, 1953 at Fort Sheridan, Illinois and his

home address is Rural Route 5, Menomonie, Wisconsin. The Subject

is not considered a security risk by the army

Pertinent paragraphs from the Subject's Army interroga-

tion are set forth:

Bayes

"Subject was captured by unknown forces on 12 February

1951 when his unit was overrun at Changhong, South Korea.

at Kaesong on 22 August 1953. He is 22 years of age,

Caucasian, and has had 10 years of education.

The Phase II inter-

rogation was conducted on 29 August 1953 aboard the USNS General

John Pope.

LENARS

LHINA

"BOBBY DE)GRAW and LOUIERIGS were members of the.

Pease Committee. These men were selected by the Chinese and then

"voted on by the members of the company.

KOREA

SEE I.

PEASNER, age 20, home address Texas, and

REAVES, age 29,

Texas visited with the camp

officials frequently during 1952. PEASNER was later transferred to

Camp #3 and BEAVES was assigned to the camp band. The following men

were the most recent, frequent visitors to camp headquarters and their

visits were voluntary:

BOBBY DE GRAW, LOUIE GRIGGS, WESLESBIERS, W. VA

EUGENE POWERS, and FRANI MASNERA.

KOREA

CHiNA

"THOMAS Pi.

PEASNER

THOMAS, BEAVES, BOBBY DE GRAW, LOUIE

Y GRIGGS, WESLEY BIERS,

EUGENE POWERS,

treatment than the other prisoners.

and FRaNk lasNakd received better

RB: ecs

COPIES DESTROYICE

Dallas

10' AUG 201989

New Orleans

Pittsburgh

83 JAN

C957S

J04

SECURITY MARSHA

(SEE

ALCORDES

407808

60:

1N0= S 138: B0

Peasner

FEING AND/OR DELIVERY

CAED 4080

16211 ANDENIAL

INS

NW 66000 Docld:32324514 Page 2

---

## Page 3

MI 100-0

and training.

GRIGGS, WESLEY BIERS,

WHO EARS FOR THOR AS TO Darently beLieved

in the 'true value' of Communism and Subject believes that these men did

not support Communism merely to gain personal favors.

These men voluntarily

attended study group meetings.

all incidents to the camp authorities as a matter of loyalty to the camp

officials.

"BOBBY DE GRAW and LOUIE GRIGGS voluntarily chose to remain

with the Chinese and had no desire to return to the United States.

These

men were very friendly with the Chinese.

and reflected these leanings by applying themselves and cooperating with the

Chinese.. Subject does not know of any pro-communists among other United

Nations prisoners.

"Subject hates the word Communism and what it stands for,

and does not think that it would work in the United States.

He states that he

never listened to the lectures given while he was a prisoner and does not

know what Communism really is or the reason that it won't work in the United

"All of the captured personnel of Subject's platoon have not

been repatriated. BOBBY DE GRAW and LOUIE GRIGGS, United States Army

personnel, voluntarily chose to remain with the Chinese and were last seen

at Camp #1."

The following addresses were obtained from the diary of

value to the sure a fol end sullect of another case, which may be of

RIGGS, 406 Kickapoo Street, Jacksonville; Texas

-2-

NW 66000 Docld:32324514 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Am maren

MI 100-0

BOBBY DEGRAN, Route 2, Box 251, Portageville, Mississippi

THOMAS JIREASNER, Jr., Route 2, Box 166 D, Lancaster, Texas

• 4616 Gaston Avenue, Dallas, Texas

WESLEY

XBIERS, Route 2, Box 136, Kimberly West Virginia

No further investigation will be conducted at Milwaukee UACB.

• 700082039 VDe

NW 66000 Docld:32324514 Page 4

---

