# DOCID-32339484

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy

issassination Records Collection Get ol

1992 (44 USC 2107 Notel. Case#:NW

54578 Date: 11-30-2021

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/5/2015

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

FBI

124-90149-10080

DE

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 92-965-2

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

GILBERT

TO :

DE

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

08/15/1962

10

ANTHONY PROVENZANO

ANTHONY ZERILLI

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

Redact

10/20/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

MEMO

v9.1

NW 64578 Docld:32339484 Page 1

10

---

## Page 2

D

22-792-9-B continued

issuance of a Teamsters charter to LOU LASKY, a New York labor

racketeering figure, for the organization of

a New Jersey

factory but he had

directed ANTHONY PROVENZANO

of the Joint Council to issue the charter for that one specific

factory. It appears that CATENA holds the right of approval

of a charter to himself but once that is granted leaves the

details of the organization to a selected

subordinates and to

ANTHONY PROVENZANO.

on hay 7, 1902, NK 2323-C advised that he had

neard that ANIHONY PROVENZANO, President of Local 560, IBT, had

been the individual who had made the sum of $180,000 available

to (FNU) SILVESTRI, owner of Cabana Club and Palma Room, North

Bergen, New Jersey, which was paid to hAROLD KondeSbunG, a

Hudson

County hoodlum, to settle a debt of long standing.

Informant stated that SILVESTRI had been unable

to come up with the money, the operation of the Cabana Club

and the Palma Room would have been taken over by HAROLD

KONIGSBERG.

muna have

After payment had been made, KONGSBERG was given

to understand that he should make no further efforts to take

over this property or he would incur trouble from PROVENZANO'S

"goons".

On May 25, 1962, PCI WALLACE O'REILLY (protect)

advised (agent not indicated) that one SAM COSMAN (PH) (apparently

formerly associated with Banking and Insurance.

Commission of

New York City and is an attorney with offices located in

New York City) had approached the Hudson County Trustees of

Local 560 Welfare Find early May, 1962, to inform that group

that he was in a position to place the

welfare money in secure

real estate values having a minimum return of six per cent.

It appeared that COSMAN has obviously received the recommendation

Of ANTHONY PROVENZANO to approach:

trustees in regard to

placement of welfare funds.

1s of May 25, 1962, no action has been taken by

the Hudson County Board of Trustees to place any monies with

COSMAN.

- 10 -

NW 64578 Docld:32339484 Page 2

---

