# DOCID-32289461

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/11/201

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

FBI

124-10201-10237

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

92-2781-516

Document Information

- ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

LABADIE, STEPHEN J.

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

B5994 Date: 11-01-2021

DATE: 04/03/1962

'PAGES:

17

SUBJECTS :

LST, BKG, ACT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: - 10/13/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

NW 65994 Docld:32289461 Page 1

---

## Page 2

F1:-268 (Nev. 5-1=59)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

TAMPA

TITLE OF CASE

OFFICI OF ORIGIN

TAMPA

SANTO TRAFFICANTE, JR., aka

DATE

4/3/62

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

3/13/62 - 3/29/62

REPORT MADE BY

SA STEPHEN J. LABADIE

CHARACTER OF CASE

ANTI-RACKETEERING

TYPED BY

em

RELERENCEE:

Report of SA STEPHEN J. LABADIE dated March 14, 1962,

at Tampa.

Nev York teletype to Director, SAC& Las Vegas, Miami,

Xow orloans, and Taupa dated March 15, 1962, entitled

Catogeo 4a (o2a Pot 4 Psr, 81ge e ad, 4aata,

deted March 23, 1962 entitled CHARLES TOURINE, aka; AR FPC.

Mianl tolotypo to Diroctor, SACB Chicago, Dotrolt, New York,

Howark, and Taupa dated March 23, 1962.

• P.

LEADS

CHICAGO DIVISION

AT CHICASO, ILLINOIS:

1.

ostablinh BANTO

ntaln contact uith informants in an e11ort to.

TRAFTICANTE, JR.'8 ansociates, businers, contacts, and

INALAGENT Coder Pag

I CHARG

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BILOW

92-2781-516

NLS, 49

1E APR 9 1962

- UBA, Miant

2

2

- Chicago

2

- Now York

- Miant (92-88)

- Тамра: (92-1)

Agency

Request Recd.

Date Fwd.

How Fwd.

By

Dissemination Rocord of Attachod Ropört

SAG

Ku 1121

yflei

Độc /

13.24

NW 6599F

A02

21957

Döcld:32289461 Page 2

Notations

---

## Page 3

TP 92-1

activities with Chicago's top hoodlums.

2. Furnish Tampa With thumbnail sketch of JACK CERONE

and SAM GIANCANA, end ROCCO FISCHETTI, so that they can be included

as associates in subsequent report.

3. Will maintain contact with informants who are in a

position to know and to establish whether or not subject of this

case has or has not gambling interests in Europe.

NEW YORK DIVISION

AT NEW YORK CITY:

1. Will maintain contact with informants to determine

subject's, connection, business, association, and activities with

JOSEPH PROFACI.

2.

Will maintain contact with informants who are in a

position to know and to establish whether or not subject of this

case has any gambling interests in

Europe.

Will maintain contact with NY 2772-C relative to

JOSEPH PROFACI'S nephew, SALVATORE F. PROFACI, receiving assistance

from subject concerning

singing engagements at Las Vegas,

Nevada,

and particularly, whether or not SALVATORE F. PROFACI may have been

in contact with

subject at Tampa or Miami.

4. Will furnish Tampa thumbnail sketch of JOSEPH PROFACI

so that same can be incorporated in a future report listing him as

an associate of subject.

5. Will report results of investigation requested

concerning Ferreri Confection Company.

MIAMI DIVISION

AT MIAMI, FLORIDA:

1. Will establish fisur of subject and report his

activities in Miami, as well as notify any offices should subject

leave Miami, noting as of March 28, 1962, Miami daily teletype

states subject continuing to reside at 523 Northeast 7lst Street.

B

Cover Page

NW 65994 Docld:32289461 Page 3

---

## Page 4

TP 92-1

On March 15, 1962, CHARLES SAMS, United States Mail

Carrier, advised SA STEPHEN J. LABADIE that, although he had

carried mail to subject's residence at 2505 Bristol Avenue

for the past five years, he had never seen subject. He states,

ho had nev

as a matter of interest, he hardly ever sees anyone at 2505 Bristol

Avenue, and has only been in contact with an individual he knows

as ANNIE MAE JACKSON, the colored maid, because he also delivers

mail to her residence, 2505 DeLeon. He noted that even though

ANNIE MAE had been pleasant enough

with him over several years;

she has never divulged any information concerning subject or his

residence. This source endeavored to locate subject at his

residence on March 15, 1962, and reported subject was not at his

residence.

INFORMANTS:

TP T-I 1s ROBERT J. JONES, Manager, Rocky Point Beach

Motel, who requested his identity be concealed.

TP T-2 18 CS TP 51-C, whose identity is known to Bureau.

TP T-3 Is TP 41-C, whose identity is known to the Bureau.

TP Ta4 1g former TP 50-C, whose identity 1s known to the

Bureau,

whom the Bureau canceled in March 19, 1962.

TP T-5 1s NY 3508 - PC whose identity is known to the t

Bureau.

TP T-6 is PG 576-C, whose identity is known to the

Bureau.

TP T-T 18 NORMAN BERNARD PEETLUCK, PCI, Tampa.

ENCLOSURES:

Enclosed for the Bureau are two copies of letterhead

memorandum characterizing informants.

Cover Page

NW 65994 Docld:32289461 Page 4

---

