# DOCID-32108140

## Page 1

Date: 06/19/96

Page:

1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER

RECORD

SERIES

AGENCY FILE

NUMBER

CIA

104-10012-10136

JFK

201-289248

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR :

CIA

FROM :

HELMS, RICHARD, DD/P, CIA

TO : RANKIN; J: LEE, WC

TITLE

: ANONYMOUS TELEPHONE CALLS TO US EMB IN CANBERRA RE PLANNED ASSASS OF

JFK

DATE :

05/22/64

PAGES

SUBJECTS : CRANK CALL

AUSTRALIA

ALLEGED PLOT

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

SECRET

RESTRICTIONS : 1B, 4

CURRENT STATUS

RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

08/13/93

OPENING CRITERIA

COMMENTS

OSW16:V56 1993.08.13.09:23:27:810010:

Heleased under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

55924 Date: 10:21-2021

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NW 65924 Docld:32108140 Page 1

---

## Page 2

• sa

i SENSITI

METHODS INYOLVED

00/ 42624

XAA2 -15367

MEMORANDOM FOR: Me. J. Lee Kankin

GUBJSOT:

Anonymous Telephons Galls to United States

Embasey ia Canberra, Australle, Relstive to

Planned Accussination of President Keunedy

I. I refer again to paragraph too of your memerandar.

dito112 Fabruary 196% relative do Aiseminations to the Geczee

Sorvice made by Gid.

2. 0

Cn 24 Novembes 1963, GLA received from the Departenent

of the Navy a copy of a cable from the Naval Attacho in Canbarra,

Acstralin (IN 47307, Top Socret, later downgraded to Nocret),

reporting a telophone convercation the previous day with at

anonyrnous individual who had dencribed himself an a Polish

chauffeur fox the Coviet Embassy la that city. This individual,

while diecursing sovoral mattero of intelligenco interost, touched

on fas roscibility that the Soviet Covernment lsd financed che

nopoacination of Fronidest Reantiy, Referenco was made in this

cable to the receist of a sillar annoymoon telepaone call en

15 October 1962.

3. Upon receipt of sitio cable from Navy. CLA took ahe

following action:

2..

Gabled so Canborro anting full detaile of the

telapácas convazontion of 28 November and the call mde

ca 15 Cetober 1962. It chould be noted that CIA had act

previously insun ol the 1902 Eclephone call,

effe

Exaloded iren. automatic

Usancruding and

WARNING NOTE:

SENSITIVE

SCES AND

THOOS I:

201285548

NW 65924 Docld:32108140 Page 2

---

## Page 3

WARNI

SENSITIVE

ICES. AND

METHODS INVOLVE

bi The Cle Station la Canbarm, da 27 Normber, forniabod

att avallable information on the 1902 talephore cull. It eppesto

¿bat dourde on that eccaston stated that "Iroo Gortale Contries*

Dinarad to pry a handied thousane dollars for the nasasonition

di President Remardy-

C*

On K7 Ronember, the MA Conberr, Station also furiabed

complete datall on the ananyricas tolagaone call st 23 November 1961.

On 29 Novembo:, Cl Meseminated tale laformation, as

supplied by los Canborro Gistion, 10 the aio Ecose, Dapartrount

01 State, Cood Modoral Dorone of Incontigalisa, with a copy to the

Socrat Sorvice, " copy of Chlo dienminstion la les aract text

1c stachod to tide zoomoradara:

8. The CIA Starton is Gascure doranged lor Cocuncim of the

calte with the Astralian secunity corvice, In too opinion ei the

Anstralias authoritico, the callor unie creat

In any ovent. thay

maro not ablo to Mortifp any Pollah caployee of tus Soviet Embarry,

the sutomobile donscioud by bas collar ae the one he drove, or 2as

Menzoc plato mmoor given by hire. No further information on tais

call los boon rocalved: Availablo avidence sucki tond to show that

the caller mus nome lyos of crani*

Thia concincion, bewever, cauto!

be crafterad.

5, Plenco note that the nature of the information in this

asertorandar, doú ja attachacat roguirus the uno bi & noneltivity

indicator.

Me0d)

Richard Holma

Dapty Director for Plans

Adachaset

BROUP 1

Excluded from astematica

WARNING NOFT

SENSITIVE

IRCES AND

METHODS INVOLTS

2005206-1

NW 65924 Docld:32108140 Page 3

---

## Page 4

LARi

SENSITIVE

URCES

AN

METHODS INVOLVED

CUT Teletype No. 45691, dated 29 Monorbor 1963 filse of 1117 beara,

to dise White Fonte,

Department of State cad Federal Brroan t

Inventigation, wits a copy to the Secret Sorries

I: Yoor astention ia called to & pertos of anonymous telephone

collo raado to tho oilica of the U.S. Naval Attacke in Canbezen,

Australa, by a man chiming to have tod moniedge thout a Soviet

plot to assusanate tho leto lootdont Kennedy, Cue feet record

of cola master 1a a Duval Akacha cablo treme Casterra sent on

d4 Noverber 1963.

i. It copeara that the caltor, who professes to be to Polich

chaution, of & Sortet Embarry car in Canberra, Gast phoned in

over # year aga, so 15 Octoboy 1902 rapest 1962.

At that time se.

ecla s tory about fion Sortet auhmorne carrying 400 to 500 Goriet

collieze on their may to Caba.

Gao pupone di this troop rovement.

bo said, car to support the Gorerony of Muscissippi. He added tast

thare mas a plot to pay one hindrod thoanad dollara to lill Franident

Komedy, Dobied the plot, bo emic, vera tha "Iron Cortain Countriee,"

and commoniat mon la Logians, Mong Hong aad probabig some other

countries.*

3. On I3 Movembs: 1069 repont 1963, the dny after the

sosacointion si Froslone Rossody and ovar a yoar eler the Aret

tolphone sall, a man boilovad to bo the same person phoned tho

ismbusty again sad spoiro to the acristart Coval Attache. The caller

motorred to hia call i yoar back and stutod be lad said that the Osba.

od mit up 100,000 dollara for the asposaintles of President Keaundy.

*. Giving what he claimod more farther decalls about the

adaardination, tho callos enid that about too costa buforo (which

would kare boon la darly Movember 1963) as was present when en

Muecralins mar, 35 to 10 yeare oli, and tall, gas Alapatched by

the Scrices to the United States cornying a case dbout 19 to 10

cominators long, 50 coatimedare bigh, nad 8.5 coatimatora sido.

The samo Vosyl Two was tood in come connection with thin soar.

Ro mao put on a pline in bydasy end white the enitor drove the too

soviet encorta hace to Cenhorra, Cheir chortware sato la she car

war going santonsly.

* chorevavo vadio was going in the Emboney

Excluded irom aulamarie

devasrading and

WARNING NOT

SENSITIVE

ACES AND

METHODS INVOLY

NW 65924 Docld:32108140 Page 4

---

## Page 5

SENSIVE

METHODS INVOLVED

alve whor shay assivad thorg.

Oves trebo raitos, one of tbase Sovietn

tranomitted numbers ann "polndr." Tasy romsined ia the Getbadey, and

thas morning (appareally 21 Movember 10631, 6 mazenge came tarosgi

am toodto voro drank fo Sorcino Vodka nad the Manatone present 822d,

Has have schisvod wbas we wans.*

5. The caller then gars findormation* aboat tao Geriot sole

in sinking a U.6. Musy anclen cobrarine and oa fostet andression 22

Jacoacule:

He coolà not linally Atonentf, and ches ha deucribed the

car be artroa fos a yuny biae 1958 Salck, Licenae plate Now Joutb Walas

Coc 0122) in weded lucy dion change plates, have Jity dets in resorta,

mod can change thoms in fire Ascondo.

6, Tho caller déded pors rogur information abode i wrocoan

employoe of the American Consery he Choga vorko for tha Soviets,

The conversation concluded with the calter prosining to write s letter

to dho March Astachs at the Eronican Coonesy.

7. 'Tho callor spoke good Engliah and his acuent and voice did

and change througher tae aonvercation, no 10 ns henaco that he

was not disguising hie voice.

Narration authorities wrosting on this case coasider tha

caller to bo a crani, Jamy nosen Esct doviet olicoe in concella

de nos ano anything bot bovies chantaure, they have no recoma ot

their uring a Pollah chanticur. They are coctinuing thete imestigation:

GROUP 1

Excluded trom automatle

deknerding end

WARNING !

SENSITIVE

ARCES AND

METHODS INVOLVES

NW 65924 Docld:32108140 Page 5

---

