# DOCID-32359516

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

-------------=------

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER

: 104-10113-10234

RECORD

SERIES

: JEK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

80T01357A

--------

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM

TITLE

DATE

PAGES

DC, ALIEN AFFAIRS STAFF

: FILE

:

MEMO: MARCOS DIAZ LANZ #202923

09/08/1959

1

SUBJECTS

: DIAZ LANZ, PEDR

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER

CLASSIFICATION : SECRET

RESTRICTIONS : 1A

CURRENT STATUS

RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

COMMENTS

: 07/24/93

:JFK41 : E19 : 1993.07.24.10:50:08:590320

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note]. Case#:NW

55924 Date: 10-26-2021

[R] - ITEM

IS

RESTRICTED

104-10113-10234

NW 65924 Docld:32359516 Page 1

---

## Page 2

- Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO

FIRE

DATE:

8 September 1959

FROM

SUBJBOT

Deputy Chief, Alien Affuirs Staff

EXCOS DIAZ Lanz

4202923

Mr McCarthy of ISNS informed me today that when he cal lea

Mr. Threns, District Director at Miant, Mothrens Tiromed him that

Bernie Reicharat hnd arranged for and had brought the subject to

Miant, where he wus given a hearing and re-paroled on 31 July 1959

Tinformed Mr. Tom Flores of the above and he steted that

he had Just received infornstion from Mr. Reichardt thirt the fear-

ing hud been given. I pointed out to ye. Flores ut that time since

Mr. Cotter and Me. Nice hud gone to considerable trouble to zorenze

for the entry of the subject so that he round not nave to octeten

to em chat it would have been much better bad che central ortice

O TENS known that this hearing yes to be atten so that in. voc thy

not have to learn of it by a telephone cull to thunt.

On 2 September 1952. Tom Flores stuted ni Cuble 22912

contuined the inforation thut the subject a vire had ampiled torte

vise at lexico City and the U.S. Consul had requested an advisory

opinion fron Wishington in State cable 573 dated 8 September 1959.

4. Nr. Spence of State' Depurtnent informed me he had the

cable on his desk and he would request Agency checks umediately

and he yould keep me informed alout the progress of the case.

5.

Mr. Flores wus advised.

CHo Pennington

Os/AS/CHP:es 10 September 1959

Crite

Moe Ca

SEORET

102de

0210

Callot

di:

NW 65924 Docld:32359516 Page 2

---

