# DOCID-32350016

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER: 104-10073-10142

RECORD SERIES

JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

80T01357A

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

CIA

AGENCY ORIGINATOR

FROM

TO

TITLE

DATE

PAGES

CI PERSONALITIES

12/23/1962

2

SUBJECTS : GUTIERREZ,

E.M.

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPEF

CLASSIFICATION

: CONFIDENTIAI

1B

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

COMMENTS : JFK16 : F32: 1993.07.15.16:41:53:530280 : FILE

ORIGINAL IS PREVIOUSLY SANITIZED DOCUMENT.

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Flecords Collection Act of

1 992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

F5924 Date: 10-25-2021

- ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10073-10142

NW 65924 Docld:32350016 Page 1

---

## Page 2

113

UNHO

RAPCHOONIOOHALON 408

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

COUNTRY

SUBJECT

DATE OF

INFO.

PLACE &

DATE ACO.

SOURCE:

CON"BRIAN

Cuba

REPORT NO

+o 4(5)3-248046

CI Personalities

DATE DISTE

NO. PAGES

2

REFERENCES

Melon D. Blanco

so havarro

To 23 Dec

62

1 1& 310 159

Havana/ to 23 Dec 62

436

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION

Cuban national, 1 13 310 159, age 20.

So. 31.

Source was captured during Bay of Pigs invasion on 22 Api S). Re

served in Castillo del Principe Pricon In Havana unúil he tas rancoror

and came to Miani on 23 Dec 62.

Source vas qualifieû as a radio opera-

cor and as a "forward observer" for artillery. lle vas irained In

Guatemala prior to invasion.

This report was developed by an Air Force representativo assignce to

orfice of collection.7

Eloy Cutierrez Menoyo, ino was a Najor in Fidel Cadtro's revolutiona

forces (2d Front of Escambray) and who is variously in Mieni or else-

where in the US, is a Castro agent.

He informed or 142 nen in Cube:

many of whain are still. in prison.

I have also heard from many of y

friends that he is sending information to G-2 fron Mioni, Fla.

has infiltrated in anti-Castro croups in the US and sueare thet he so

against Castro, but I believe he actually is a trusted castro agent

and uses his anti-Castro activities as cover. Regardless of his apparero

anti-Casta: i liles, he is definitely using or exploiting the sullio

bility o! :

:il-Castro organizations and possibly the US covernment

agencied is i: front for what I believe are his true operatione for cacito.

I believe this man is involved in activities against the best intercaus

Of the United States and should be thoroughly checked.

He informed on

my brother,

during July 1959.

My brother

was captured in Aus 59 and served in prison until ranconed with no on

24 Dec 62. My brother arrived in Miani one day after I did. My browns

and I are willing to testify in a court of let on the above allegation

asainst Gutterzer.

2. (Inu) Padilla, who vas an officer in the Iolé de. Pinos Prison in 1960

and sno is In the US, possibly Mismi, 1s a Castro agent.

He is in tas

20's and has typical Cuban (Latin) features.

I do not know his completa

Many of the people that were in prison

tola me that this "Pedalan"

was operating as e Castro agent in the

Us. I do noû know then he curs

to Miami or any other information on this uan ocher than the acove.

3. Alexie Hernandez, alias "A1"

is a Camunist ant is now & G-2 Lid dt 58

and 14th (G-2 Hg) in Havana.

Hernandez was a viditing professos

medicine at the Univeralty of liomi from 1952 to 1959.

Chile he was

8

08

STATE

ARMY

NMA 65924 Docld:32350016 Page 2

NAVY

AIR

FOI

ASC

---

## Page 3

DO ROR TYPS ACEVE BIGL

here he serveû ao e castso agent osil les ecuainu inosatien to tho

Go2 in lavano about anti Crosso esfinitieo in lacad. Nao salig sêlis

Live here in Mioni, tuố & do soa lou taois cabroco.

I bova luc.n

Hernando dince io raga chaleren disco Lo vara mico la ta ta

area in ravana. Ho in about 20, 506, 150 100, baci ler and cyeo,

and dark complesioned.

7

6.

7.

betucon 12o,y 280 Sts.

Ghe is a Comnuniot.

eyeo, marrica vith do unoll chileron (anaa unino). Do Balongo to

all oi the coumuniat organizatione and also dorveo do a uara en to

she alwayo reporis on all cetivitioc os geogle in tino sai-abor

Dalia Gonzalez io a chivate, a Corriunion ant Iivos on 97 Ano and 22% S6,

.Marinao, Havana.

She 19 35, 40 yeasa ale, 5'6", 135 100, broma ageo

and hair, married vith to deuchtero, 18 end 21.

Ono 10 a nilselana

and performe quard duty. Dalia lo the pronidoni of CDR thore che 1ivos

and also belongo to all the Communios orcanizationo.

on many people In the noichbordood inere I livod.

(Havana), is now a Gol officer et Jose Maris Internationa? Airporo in

Rauel10 Boyeros.

checks on Cubans coming to Miani. he lo 20,

5'6₴".

, 155 lus, blue eyes and lighi brom hair. I have knoin hin lor

a lond time.

Bebo Alvarez, who lives on 59th Ave (Navarcüte) betteen 130ch and 132d

Streets (Acadep)da Alvarez), in a G-2 It (Investigatos) aù la Calore

He is also the chief of the firing aquad and arter people ere

executed, he tales the remains to the cemenosy.

He le about 38, 5º10",

190 lbe, black eyes and haii, uses darli claoses.

He is marsied.

was a teacher at the 'Academia Alvarez mentionea above.

Since he veg

one of my teachers in school. I have known him for a long time.

-endo

WW 65924

Docld:32350016 Page 3

3) SAS

Spad/LIN

---

