# DOCID-32331003

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/21/201

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90094-10093

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : CR 109-584-2940

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

NY

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 10/03/1961

PAGES:

10

SUBJECTS :

ANTI-FIDEL CASTRO ACTIVITIES

JOAQUIN GODOY Y SOLIS

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1A; 1B; 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/16/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS :

MEMO

v9.1

NW 66000 Docld:32331003 Page 1

15

---

## Page 2

AL FORM NO. 10

UNITED STATES

ERNMENT

Memorandum

SÉCRET

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI (109-584)

DATE:

10/3/61

ALI INFORMATION CONIAINE JFK

FROM

SAC, NEW. YORK (105-35253)

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWA 576

SEWD/KSR

OTHERWISE

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECI ASSINICASE IRD/OR, ANTI-FIDEL CASTRO ACTIVITIES

Classified by Ses BlAmine

RELF!:

14 INTORMATIGIS - CUBA

Declassify on: OADR(3//85

THIS COCUMENT. EXCEPT PRACILETS

K8 11-19-97(510 115K

ON pys. ReBulet to Miami dated'-1-47 JFK.

9/14/61,

Bulet to Miami dated 9/26/61, entitled

actioned as above,

Since 4/17/61, there has been

Little organized

anti-CASTRO activity in the Metropolitan New York area.

The

activity which has taken place since April, 1961, has been

dominated by the Frente Revolucionario Democratico (FRD), and

this activity has taken the form of pickets and public meetings.

There has been activity by the Junta de Liberacion Nacional

(JLN, and the individual groups within the framework of the

FRD have also sponsored individual meetings.

Dr. CARIOSXPRIO

MOCARRAS, former President of cuba, was scheduled to hold a

meeting in New York, on 9/30/61, but this meeting was allegedly

FL.A

cancelled on advice given by unknown individuals from Washington,

D.C.

CUEN

DONADO TO SILENTAN

10-1/om

The following statements are conclusions based upon

information received from established sources and from various

leading figures in the anti-CASTRO field who have been interviewed

on various occasions since 4/17/61. The ideas and conclusions

which follow are based on intormation

Dr. ERNESTO

ARAGON, secretary to Dr.

JOSE MIRO CARDONA, President,

of

the Revolutionary Council, EDUARDO GONZALEZ, Coordinator

of the FRD in New York, JOSE GONZALEZ, Financial Secretary of the

FRD in New York, JOSE MESTRE, of "Bohemia Libre"

, and other

individuals who

are in a position to have

firsthand information

from leading anti-CASTRO leaders.

12397

A1 ORGANIZATIONS

CLASSIFIED BY 5Tola8 510/KS

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X

In general, the anti-CASTRO organizations

Man be

characterized by three leading groups, namely the FRD,

Movimiento Revolucionario del Pueblo (MRP), and the JLN.

2) Bureau (109-584) Info) (RM)

EX. - 119=

REC-52 109-584-2940

1-Miami (105-1742)

1-Washington Field (105-29995)/ (Inf&biBMade

5

1961

I-New York (105-35253)

F JO :mfw

j6 Car 4.14•28

2000

(5)

or review at into b

58 OCT 171961

ESCAre 3-14 request p

(See Butile #08-117290)

SECRET

NW 66000 Docld:32331003 Page 2

---

## Page 3

NY 105-35253

SECRET

ARAGON said that MIRO CARDONA went to PRIO's residence in

Miami and asked for PRIO's support and anything that PRIO could

do that could enhance the position of the Revolutionary Council.

ARAGON advised that at this meeting PRIO promised his support,

but also asked Dr. MIRO to put several of his, PRIO's, men on

the payroll of the Revolutionary Council. ARAGON stated that Dr.

MIRo told him that the council did not handle the money, as this

was at that time handled directly by the FRD. ARAGON stated

that. Dr. MIRO and CARLOS PRIO have met several times since

and on each occasion Dr. PRIO has informed Dr. MIRO that he is

in support of Dr. MIRO but then PRIO goes on and makes propaganda

which definitely is against Dr. MIRO and in his, PRIO's, favor.

ARAGON advised that as a result of recent statements made by

Dr. PRIO, Dr. MIRO CARDONA no longer has any desire to speak

with CARLOS PRIO.

NY 2865-S advised that in early September, 1901,

he was with GUILLERMO ALONSO PUJOL in New York, and PUJOL

showed him a confidential letter on the stationery of the U.S.

House of Representatives written by VICTOR L. ANFUSO to Secretary

of State DEAN RUSK. NY 2865-S stated he was not sure of the

date of this letter but believed it was 8/27 or 28/61.

In this

letter to DEAN RUSK, Representative ANFUSO asked RUSK to

recognize a Cuban government in exile and offer it all the

necessary assistance in order to overthrow the present Cuban

Government.

ANFUSO also, in his letter to RUSK, stated that.

Dr. CARLOS PRIO had supported Dr. JOSE MIRO CARDONA as

Provisional President in the event such a government in exile

was recognized by the united States (AU)

From information available thusfar,

there does not

appear to be any definite plans on the part of CARLOS PRIO to

set up a government in exile in a Latin country.

The Cuban

exiles are divided about PRIO and the majority of them greatly

question his ability to unify a majority of Cubans.

(4) INVASION EFFORTS

There has been no information received from Cuban

exiles in the Metropolitan New York area indicating any serious

plans to mount an invasion from the US to Cuba.

There are also

no reports of any invasion

being planned by individuals in the

SECRET

- 6 -

NW 66000 Docld:32331003 Page 3

---

## Page 4

SECRET:

NY 105-35253

have taken place during July, August and September, 1961

ARAGON stated that he and Dr. MIRO CARDONA discussed problems

facing the Revolutionary Council and what the Revolutionary

Council believes should be done in the Cuban question. He

also advised that the main difficulty of the Revolutionary

ouncil is with liaison with CIA. ARAGON stated that at his u

ast meeting with RICHARD GOODWIN on 9/14/61; GOODWIN advise

that there was a retired Colonel from the New England area,

now under transfer to Miami, who would act as liaison man between

House and CIA. ARAGON stated thaug

he was informed by GOODWIN that this man would have complete

authority to make final decisions in all matters. ARAGON

advised that as of 9/25/61, when he last spoke to Dr. MIRO

CARDONA, Dr. MIRO stated that he had not yet been contacted

by this liaison man.

ARAGON also stated that neither he

nor Dr. MIRO CARDONAwas given the name of this man, but they

were informed that Dr. MIRO would be contacted by this individual

on his arrival in Florida.

ARAGON also expressed his personal opinionregarding

RICHARD GOODWIN and other advisors at the White House by stating

that they were very brilliant young men who can advance wonderful

theories but cannot put anything into practical working order.

ARAGON also stated that CIA continues to operate

with various underground groups, and these groups are being

supported by CIA.] ARAGON advised that the underground inside & U

Cuba is being built up and it is becoming efficient, but ARAGON

lack of

authority and although it is possible by underground activity to

overthrow. the present Cuban Government, he believes that

unless this matter of unification is attended to immediately,

the end result could be chaos and untold bloodshed.

ARAGON also stated that his contact at CIA is one •

5 RAYMOND S. CLARK with whom he is in regular contact and who

Turnishes him money which he carries to Miami for Dr. MIRO CARDONA.

a financial cut by CIA and this, to a great extent, has

hampere the active o he Revolut one come: A guy

SECRET.

- 9

NW 66000 Docld:32331003 Page 4

---

## Page 5

SECRET

NY 105-35253

further advised that Dr. MIRO CARDONA is considering increasing

the Revolutionary Council by four, and he, ARAGON, had given

the names of the four individuals

to ROBERT HURWITCH, of State

Department, to see if the State Department opposed any of these

select anyone he wants but must exclude all Batistianos, Communists

and fellow travelers.

ARAGON stated that he was not entirely optimistic

about the future of Cuba.

ARAGON said that the Cuban people

cannot be entirely unified as there are so many politically

ambitious leaders among the exiles and there are many jealousies

and there is much criticism leveled against the Revolutionary

Council and the United States Government because of the

unsuccessful invasion of April, 1901.

ARAGON advised that the

bedieved that

that the underground would eventually overthrow CASTRO, together

with the economic hardships which the Cuban Government

suffering, but without a strong unifiedopposition and 100

per cent cooperation from the United states, he saw a very

unhappy picture for Cuba in years to come.

The Bureau is respectfully requested that if the

above information is disseminated, extreme care be used concerning

information furnished by ERNESTO ARAGON. ARAGON has cooperated

fully with the New York Office, is cognizant of what is being

done with the Revolutionary Council and Dr. MIRO CARDONA in

particular.

It is also pointed out that at some of these meetings

at the White House there were only two or three individuals

present and his identity could easily be determined if information

furnished by him is not properly paraphrased.

- 10 -

SECRET

NW 66000 Docld:32331003 Page 5

---

