# DOCID-32359563

## Page 1

JEK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

-----------------

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER

:104-10113-10274

RECORD

SERIES

: JEK

AGENCY FILE

NUMBER

80T01357A

----

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM : COTTER, WILLIAM J., CIA

: FILE, CIA

TITLE

: LANZ, PEDRO DIAZ SWING ORDERS PAROLE REVOKED AND

PLACEMENT IN DETENTION

DATE

PAGES

:

07/07/1959

2

SUBJECTS :

SWING, GENERAL

REICHARDT, BERN

DIAZ, PEDRO

CABELL, EARLE

DOCUMENT TYPE

: PAPER

CLASSIFICATION

: SECRET

RESTRICTIONS : 1A

CURRENT STATUS

RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 07/24/93

COMMENTS : JEK41 : F20 : 1993.07.24.11:46:12:340630

Heleased under the John F. Kennedy

1952/in US 210 do Collection A of

65924 Date: 10:26-2021

[R] - ITEM

IS RESTRICTED

104-10113-10274

NW 65924 Docld:32359563 Page 1

---

## Page 2

STANDARD FORM NO. 6A

SEGRET

Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO

DATE:

7 July 1959

FROM

File

Chief, Alien Affairs Staff

SUBJECT:

LANZ, Pedro DiaZ

1. Reference is made to the attached memorandum dated

6 July 1959, from the Chief, Personnel Security Division,

pertaining to certain

activity which occurred over the past

weekend concerning the subject's detention by the I&NS.

2. On this date Inquiry was made of Mr. Tom Flores,

WH Division, with regard to this matter. He declared that

everyone on a working level in the I&NS was most cooperative

with the Agency with regard to the subject. He indicated,

however, that it appeared that General Swing was taking a

"hard nosed" approach in view of an interest in the subject

as the Committee on Internal Security, headed by Senator

Éastland. Mr. Flores indicated he felt it would not be

desirable to attempt to have the subject released from detention

until General Swing decides that such action is propitious.

3. On this same date inquiry was made of Mr. H. D. Nice,

I&NS, with regard to this matter.

He declared that there was

"nothing you or I could have done" to have precluded the

situation that arose over the past weekend. He declared that

someone in this Agency had misinformed General Cabell to the

effect that the Inmigration Service was holding the subject

in detention and would not 'permit CIA representatives to talk

to him.

The fact of the matter according to Mr. Nice, was that

General Swing had ordered that the subject's parole be revoked

and he be placed in detention for three reasons.. The first'

being it was the subject's one desire to be afforded protection;

secondly, it jas a suggestion of the CIA representative in Miami,

Bernard Reichardt, who had the opportunity to interview the

subject); and thirdly, because General Swing became aware of

the fact that several different components of the U.S. Government

were evidencing a primary interest in the subject.

It was made

clear to Mr. Nice that certainly General Cabell dia not wilfully

attempt to deceive the Commissioner of Immigration and Natural-

ization Service, and if in fact he did give the impression that

SEGRET

NW 65924 Docld:32359563 Page 2

---

## Page 3

SECRET

he believed that the Service would not permit CIA to interview

the subject, such an impression was merely due to the fact

that he did not have complete information at his disposal.

4. Mr. Flores; mentioned above, Indicated this date that

complete coordination has been effected with the various

Government Agencies interested in the subject, and now there

is a complete meeting of the minds with regard to the fact

that the CIA has primary interest in the subject for intelli-

gence purposes.

Mr. Flores mentioned that when Mr. Reichardt

contacted the Immigration people in Miami on Tuesday, 2 July

1959, the Immigration people were just about ready to release

subject fron custody.

It was pointed out by Mr. Reichardt,

however, that to publicize the fact that the subject had been

afforded asylum in the U.S. could possibly have had disastrous

results with regard to our relationship with Cuba.. When this

fact was called to the attention of the Service, it was at that

point undoubtedly that General Swing was contacted, and he in

turn undoubtedly was in contact with the Internal Security Com-

mittee, which resulted in his decision to revoke the parole of

IANZ and place him in detention for the time being.

5. This matter was effectively handled by the Chief,

Personnel Security Division, over the past weekend after

efforts to contact Messrs. Cotter and Pennington were unsuc-

Unfortunately, Mr. Massett, who was available at

home during the period in question, was not contacted. A

memorandum will be directed to the Physical Security Division

to assure that the identity of all professional members of this

Staff, along with their home phone numbers, are available to the

Night Security Officer.

Litt

1am J. Cotter

OS/AAS/WJC:es

8 July 1959

SEGRET

NW 65924 Docld:32359563 Page 3

---

