# DOCID-32174445

## Page 1

Date: 08/01/94

Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : FBI

RECORD NUMBER

: 124-10179-10264

RECORDS SERIES :

DL

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : CR 80-1050-136

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR

FROM

TO

TITLE

:

DATE : 00/00/00

PAGES

:

SUBJECTS

:

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992(44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

65994 Date: 11-01-2021

NAR

DOCUMENT TYPE

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS

CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

OPENING CRITERIA :

INDEFINITE

: U

: NOT

ASSASSINATION RELATED

: 08/01/94

COMMENTS

:

(R]

- ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NW 65994 Docld:32174445 Page 1 /

---

## Page 2

Date: August 2, 2021

From: National Archives and Records Administration

Subject: Reconstructed FBI File. (CR) DL 80-1050, Serial 136

To: The File

This memorandum briefly summarizes the status of missing original Federal Bureau of

Investigation (FBI) case files or portions of case files in the President John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection (JFK Collection) and documents the National Archives and

Records Administration's (NARA) efforts to reconstruct these records, where possible, from

duplicate copies of documents located in other FBI files.

As the JFK Collection was first compiled and reviewed in the 1990s, the Assassination Records

Review Board and the FBI designated some records as "not believed relevant" (NBR) or "not

assassination related" (NAR). The FBI retained custody of the NBR/NAR records and

postponed their transfer to NARA until a later date. Every document or group of documents

("serials"), however, received an indexed Record Identification Form (RIF) and FBI inventory

sheet for insertion into the JFK Collection.

In September 2011, several years prior to the 2017 re-review and transfer of the NBR/NAR

material to the National Archives, a flood severely damaged thousands of feet of records at the

FBI's Alexandria Records Center in Alexandria, Virginia. In June 2012, NARA approved the

FBI's request for emergency destruction of 10,000 cubic feet of records that posed significant

airborne health hazards. Among the damaged records were FBI field office files that contained

postponed JFK Collection material designated as "pertaining to a matter unrelated to the JFK

Assassination Investigation" or "not assassination related."

This compilation represents NARA's efforts to reconstruct the original file or portions of the file,

as completely as possible, with duplicate copies of documents located in the FBI field office and

headquarters files within the JFK Collection. Each reconstructed file or compilation contains a

Record Identification Form, an explanatory cover memo, existing administrative documents

available within the JFK Collection, and copies of identified duplicate documents. The table

below summarizes the status of FBI file (CR) DL 80-1050, Serial 136.

RIF Number.

FBI File Number

List of Serials

From Inventory

Sheet

List of Identified

Serials at NARA

Reconstructed

Status (None,

Partial,

Complete)

124-10179-10264

(CR) DL 80-1050

136

136

Complete

NW 65994 Docld:32174445 Page 2

---

## Page 3

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

POSTPONEHINT INFORHATION SHEET (JFK MATERIALS)

Page (s) withheld entirely at this location in the file.

One or more of the following statements, where indicated,

explain this deletion (these deletions) •

[]

Deletions were made pursuant to the postponement

rationale indicated below with

available for disclosure.

with re ernes elatterial

Section 6 of the "President John F. Kennedy Assassination

Recoras collection Act of 1992."

[] Subsection 1A (intelligence agent's identity)

Subsection 1B (intelligence source or method)

[]

Subsection 1C (other matter relating to military

defense, intelligence operations or

the conduct of foreign relations)

[] Subsection 2 (living person who provided

confidential information)

[]

Subsection 3 (unwarranted invasion of privacy)

[]

Subsection 4

(cooperating individual or foreign

government, currently reguiring

protection)

[]

Subsection 5

(security or protective procedure,

currently or expected to be utilized)

I Information pertained to a matter unrelated to the JFK

Assassination investigation.

[] For your information:

It The following number is to be used for reference

regarding this page (these pages) :

DL 81-1050-136

XXXXXXXXXX

XXXXXXXXXXX

XXXXXXXXXX

xXXXXXXXXX

xxxxxxxxxXXX

XXXXXXXXXX

NW 65994 Docld:32174445 Page 3

---

## Page 4

NW 65994

Docld: 32174445

4

File #: DL

Serial

Number

136

Page:

Document

Date

12/10/75 TT

Grand Totals.....

End of Report....

80-1050

Document

Type

Document

From

HQ

Document

To

ALL SACS

3rd

Agy

JFK Inventory Sheet

(COMMITTEE FILES)

section #: _CR

Re: CHURCH COMM.

other

Direct

With- FBI Ref Duplicate

Dupes ACTUAL PERT. Rev. Rel. held 3rd Asy Location

• 1

4|

• 1

Postponements

NAR

---

## Page 5

1R055 WA PLAIN

10:34PM NITEL 12/ 18/75 GHS

TO ALL SACS

FROM DIRECTOR

DIRECIOR'S APPEARANCE BEFORE SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE

ON INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES, DECEMBER 10, 1975

A COPY OF THE STATEMENT I DELIVERED BEFORE THE SENATE

SELECT COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES TODAY HAS, BEEN

SENT ALL OFFICES. FOR YOUR INFORMATION, THERE FOLLOWS A

SYNOPSIZED ACCOUNT OF THE MAJOR AREAS OF THE COMMITTEE'S

QUESTIONS TO ME, TOGETHER WITH MY RESPONSES:

(1) REGARDING FBI INFORMANTS, QUESTIONS WERE ASKED

WHETHER COURT APPROVAL SHOULD BE REQUIRED FOR FBI USE OF

INFORMANIS IN INVESTIGATIONS OF ORGANIZATIONS MY RESPONSE

WAS THAT THE CONTROLS WHICH EXIST TODAY OVER USE OF INFORMANTS

ARE SATISFACTORY); HOW CAN FBI KEEP INFORMANTS OPERATING

WITHIN PROPER LIMITS SO THEY DO NOT INVADE RIGHIS OF OTHER

PERSONS (MY RESPONSE WAS THAT RELIANCE MUST BE PLACED ON THE

INDIVIDUAL AGENTS HANDLING INFORMANIS AND THOSE SUPERVISING

THE AGENIS" WORK, THAT INFORMANTS WHO VIOLATE THE LAW CAN BE

62-2368-12

SERICKE

SERIALIEDRS

FILED

1,0

DECIO 1975

FBi- ALBANY

54955 DocId:32989494

NW 65994 Docld:32174445 Page 5

Page 46

---

## Page 6

PAGE TWO

PROSECUTED -- AS CAN ANY AGENT WHO COUNSELS AN INFORMANT TO

COMMIT VIOLATIONS); AND DID FORMER HLAN INFORMANI GARY ROWE

TESTIFY ACCURATELY WHEN HE TOLD THE COMMITTEE ON DECEMBER 2

THAT HE INFORMED FBI OF PLANNED ACTS OF VIOLENCE BUT FBI

DID. NOT ACT TO PREVENT THEM (MY RESPONSE WAS THAT ROVE'S

TESTIMONY WAS NOT ACCURATES.

(2). IN RESPONSE TO QUESTIONS REGARDING IMPROPER

CONDUCT BY FBI EMPLOYEES, I SIATED THAT ALLEGED VIOLATIONS OF

LAW BY FBI PERSONNEL SHOULD BE INVESTIGATED BY THE FBI OR

OTHER APPROPRIATE AGENCY; THAT THE INSPECTION DIVISION HAS

CONDUCTED INQUIRIES REGARDING ALLEGATIONS OF MISCONDUCT;

THAT AN OFFICE OF PROFESSIONAL RESPONSIBILITY HAS JUST

BEEN ESTABLISHED IN THE JUSTICE DEPARIMENI, AND VE WILL ADVISE

THAT OFFICE OF OUR MAJOR INVESTIGATIONS OF DEPARIMENTAL PERSONNEL,

INCLUDING FBI EMPLOYEES, FOR ALLEGED VIOLATIONS OF LAW, REGULATIONS,

OR STANDARDS OF CONDUCI; THAT I WOULD RESERVE. COMMENT

REGARDING POSSIBLE CREATION OF A NATIONAL INSPECTOR GENERAL

• TO CONSIDER MATTERS OF MISCONDUCI BY EMPLOYEES OF ANY FEDERAL

AGENCY.

ITH 54955

DocId: 32989494

NW 65994 Docld:32174445 Page 6

Page 17

---

## Page 7

PAGE THREE

(3) IN RESPONSE IO QUESTIONS CONCERNING HARASSMENI OF

MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR., I STATED THAT THE PERSONS WHO ISSUED

THE ORDERS WHICH RESULTED IN SUCH HARASSMENI SHOULD FACE THE

RESPONSIBILITY FOR IT, RATHER THAN THOSE UNDER THEM WHO CARRIED

OUT SUCH ORDERS IN GOOD FAITH; THAT THE FBI STILL HAS RECORDINGS

RESULTING FROM ELECTRONIC SURVEILLANCES OF KING; THAT WE RETAIN

RECORDINGS FOR TEN YEARS BUT WE ALSO HAVE AGREED TO A REQUEST

FROM THE SENATE NOT TO DESTROY INFORMATION IN OUR FILES WHILE

CONGRESSIONAL INQUIRIES ARE BEING CONDUCTED; THAI I HAVE NOT

REVIEWED THE KING TAPES; THAI IF THE COMMITTEE REQUESTED TO

REVIEW THE KING TAPES, THE REQUEST WOULD BE REFERRED TO THE

ATTORNEY GENERAL.

(4) IN RESPONSE IO QUESTIONS REGARDING WHETHER IT WOULD

BE ADVANTAGEOUS TO SEPARATE THE FBI CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIVE

RESPONSIBILITIES AND OUR INTELLIGENCE FUNGIIONS, I STATED

-THAT WE HAVE

FOUND THE TWO AREAS TO BE COMPATIBLE, AND I

FEEL THE FBI IS DOING A SPLENDID JOB IN BOTH AREAS.

(5) IN RESPONSE TO QUESTIONS CONCERNING THE ADEQUACY

OF CONTROLS ON REQUESIS FROM THE WHITE HOUSE AND FROM OTHER

GOVERNMENT AGENCIES FOR FBI INVESTIGATIONS OR FOR INFORMATION

WW 54955 DocId: 32989494

NW 65994 Docld:32174445 Page 7

Page 48

---

## Page 8

PAGE FOUR

FROM OUR FILES, I STATED THAI WHEN SUCH REQUESIS ARE MADE

ORALLY, THEY SHOULD BE CONFIRMED

IN WRITING; THAT WE WOULD

WELCOME ANY LEGISLATIVE GUIDELINES THE CONGRESS FEELS WOULD

PROTECT THE FBI FROM THE POSSIBILITY OF PARTISAN MISUSE:

A FULL TRANSCRIPT OF THE QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS WILL BE

FURNISHED TO EACH OFFICE AS SOON AS IT IS AVAILABLE.

ALL. LEGATS ADVISED SEPARATELY.

END

PLS ACK FOR 2 TELS

LVV FBI ALBANY

ACK FOR TWO CLR

T KS

TH 54955 DocId: 32989494

Page 49

NW 65994 Docld:32174445 Page 8

---

