# DOCID-32398222

## Page 1

JEK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION

FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY

: CIA

RECORD NUMBER

: 104-10104-10372

RECORD

SERIES : JFK

AGENCY FILE

NUMBER

80T01357A

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM : RISCHE, ERNEST, C/HOUSTON OFFICE

TO : D/DCS

TITLE : GARRISON MAY IMPLICATE BROWN (ATTEMPT TO EMBARRASS

AGENCY) •

DATE : 12/27/1967

PAGES

: 2

SUBJECTS : AYNESWORTH, HUG

GURVICH,

WILLIA

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER

CLASSIFICATION : SECRET

RESTRICTIONS

1B

CURRENT STATUS

RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

COMMENTS

:07/29/93

JFK37 : F14

1993.07.29.13:21:34:280062

65924 Date: 10-26-2021

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10104-10372

--

NW 65924 Docld:32398222 Page 1

---

## Page 2

T

a put zn.

UNCLASSIFIED

_RNAL

USE ONLY

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT: (Optional)

Garrison Investigation - Garrison/George Brown--Possible Attempt to Embarrass

Agency

FROM:

EXTENSION

GSMusulin/es

DCS/ Operational Support Staff

2268

NO.

Case 49364

DATE

900 'Key Building.

2 January 1968

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and

DATE

building)

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

RECEIVED

FORWARDED

Office of General Counsel

Attn:

Mr. Greaney

I D Or HOS

copies sent to

Don Pratt CI/R&A &

3. Erich Isenstead, COS

on 1/4/68

SECRET

cc: CI/R&A

DD/OS

"Bill Gervage" is believed

to be William GURVICH, New

orleans detective and private

guard/who was member of Gar-

rison staff and investigative

aid at outset of Garrison

investigation. In June 1967,

Gurvich quit Garrison abruptly,

saying the probe had no basis.

Attachment: HOU-251-67

4.

5.

6.

7.

8.

9.

10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

SECRET /SENSHIVE

610 USE PREVIOUS

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

ternath

dow many aid

Pacion

UNCLASSIFIED

NW 65924 Docld:32398222 Page 2

---

## Page 3

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

D OSA PRO EDITION

FPHR (41 CFR) 101-11.0

* UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

ATTN

.: Director, DCS

: OSS (Grant)

FROM : Chief, Houston Office

HOU-251-67

DATE: 27 December 1967

SUBJECT: James Garrison/George

Brown--Possible Attempt

to Embarrass Agency

1. This confirms Haynes/Grant telecon of 27 December 1967.

2. Herbert Frensley, President

of Brown and Root, Inc., reported

to Haynes on 26 December that Mr. George Brown had received a disturbing

telephone call on Friday, 22 December 1967 from Hugh Aynesworth, Houston

Bureau reporter for Newsweek Magazine. Aynesworth told Brown that he had

received information from Bill Gervage (spelling?), former assistant to

New Orleans District Attorney James Garrison, that

Garrison might try to

implicate Brown in the "Kennedy assassination plot".

3. The allegation is that in some unspecified manner, Brown was

involved with the CIA in its objective of "covering up" the "conspiracy"

for President Johnson. Aynesworth said Gervage has documents, including

at least one in Garrison's own handwriting, which presumably have been

extracted from Garrison's files. Aynesworth indicated that, if desired,

he could secure these documents

from Gervage for review by Brown.

4. In view of Brown's close cooperation with the Agency in its

funding operations, Brown asked Frensley to communicate this information

to Haynes.

It is reported to Headquarters only as a matter of informa-

tion. Neither Brown nor Frensley expect any response.

5. Haynes asked Frensley to keep him informed of any future

developments in this matter.

for ERNESE A RISCHE

BenPHaynes/met

errere

scared fran crierchied

dadiassilication

SECRET /SLISTS

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

NW 65924 Docld:32398222 Page 3

---

