# DOCID-32412741

## Page 1

104-10179-10102

Feleased under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note]. Case#f:NW

55987 Date: 10-28-2021

? Srnesk a7 1950

CONTAO! DIP: ET

SUEjEGT: Kiezia6 váth Marrci Paj and Fari: Xit-se In che laiierlo

srameai (30 liert tier. Stieo:, dis' Tar6 üe5) = 22

Noiexter, ivín.

init Iiiico ii iciãs

+--t--

?ttado,;t.

по:s,

s-ttainiiis.

-1l : "i = Malls jacátiien jodidie.

2.

Ttrasitoit the eatire conrersntiao a: toiare paite ciaer ibet

RaJ A-:

ni9 aitisera nust tavo diaiuesed anorgot theaseives tbe

TaTlrG FrChirF Tirstlans mhich Eender nad raired Miil Int TidJel MRPPIS

ст. те-сле оіе.

is; 8s 8 rnszit of tbeso Ll'es an'IgE! tanseites 11

AFICATS CC UF

Pne MPP 19 tesdnidre te

*=eÉCl. Boma of It8 sore

conttwra.ola1 jisutlir.gs

treTe vas regaata! téeerce "e t.e KèF'e

dosire mi cori:tion. to tenaln o

the ser: dl terkarlir. the J-S. asd

to bo fully cimsi tied to the fros desty sasi espratically, lay rejectod

any lnpliiallos L'at he and/'n h1s grosp sintl saroifcedtraliat" espira-

tl ma--na does 1i: see hlasall in the rcio of

Letln; American Nasser.

Agatá ad again,

Pazuol Ray emphastood lia seod tu-fläht che Sorder

Dr10'9 inflienio in Cusa tc tho utraos!. it.a

sokat tsi this cunraciion

wiether ho vouid retain the 3otiot, Chicre siarsiesilo Cure, De Eirst:

1rlos to talk e .ui1 the sutjoct, sajino thit scege

rentimstps woald

have to be coroljered in tie ilght af exdotirg -ir

istasces at mry.

givor, tlrAs ho closet inle topdo by aryíre anii Eleso laties of Lator

national sigaltleaice bad not been fally cocsisernd ès jot by hinuelt os

h1s ouais apd that chey voeld bo glrer. tali thizgtt tni tihe serthccring

поску..

palnted ulth paide to valdno pino.

od vien prade too allae Pino poa tein F

Rotset

Inporta.

y. Wrirct loeder, the lit

•еті

cachalle Lator einrant.

Accarding to

HAy,

are diso closaly arillated deh tho MRP.:

Church; Ray

AEthe Sonser M.

15 Jubils

küg'preistes

Сіліко

thar he l0 virkleg vall ulih the Charco

4=J

nch hle hureient.: Ge, hay, asied kochet'i

¿ the Maf'y prajtds, Milch he said vis quire 1i

coF

drair that tas ber, siren lo no.

(Coara: l.: 9do

P3'6T

as-rajaatty

prialiatiod 1n. dvezse end so currentäy triro traidii

-ві9.

cardory"

exueiria: 180 sãons dat Indeal this piliçcoz bes iree

naa 10r. s siti)

io taisel no eiai èso durai araitro =decer co Ragoclo

M 7t÷ lM bA7. KA Me0 M11 E nON MT Eó MAGY Matt IE MRP.

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Đo Not Reproduce.

NW 65987 Docld:32412741 Page 1'

---

## Page 2

104-10179-10102

5.

say inpulsed tolber as sot a destador bad boon saga on tho

falsire of cartels MAP dagit. 508.

I seld that this ma a salter for

@ scReados on tbe techalcel lone:.

dose alrood, I noald russert isat lil/WIM tresealt partizest

•108t59011070 On tAle RatLer tO MASY Le 8000 de possible.,

6. Do va LATE atplOdiTOs inaldo cada pon utich could be siteo to

so MaP poople at in bary dato, say autor? ly mener to unis vss ure

sIap. ald not knor. (Corost, I noald & legest that kalWPM exerda

this natter and orish perilment inotrotions ratorer they say ba

Mosle pay soner deniered darlag this seoting fron lla frontess

agreesent lo coordinato sillley piens tith ca, te cootimed to probe to

And out whether os nor to borid do villing to elaply. Penion bis the

sore kith valeò this group coold unilaterair nont operatioco. A case

1a palats

"to neal a boat, " Per seld.

It 10 s6al12ad that sach a beet

cos:8 money and, leter os, certain cover er-er¿erento will baro to Do

derlead, Could no bay the bast; coald ma protide it vilà the necessary

COTEr! end, aiter isle 1a done, rould ve then tarn the bass ones to tho

HP to bo ned as thay 8oo tit? My enovor vas that Erla nould Call lato

the celogary of dapllon: 100, shieh bal toes exploion fully pIerloialy

dering the menting, (Soo parto one asd tro at "his Contact Roport.).

8. Pay Informod to that ho had out nord to fooy terens and that a

200t1a8 seth his noald he arrengod socal ve all mat participate in.

estebl1abing a 8y840s under unica denocratle institutions con bo este-

bilaced and cen do prageried, pay reserted.

9. Rey told no tbat do end calbes bad en eppointasat vill e Ar

10. Could I expodite a tian sor fallso redded la Caben currently

sting la Hadrid to Cretalle, a Cabia 11ra? Grodded 1à t0 bo vi

Ired by the KRP 1s pojohalogical sarfere sork. (I sald wet I vould 10

dato this satter.

to the MBP through our sulltary csmnel..

It lo magested thai WilPH

carry, the ball on the, be 1t pro or çon.

12. Ray valunteered the Infarnation that Sarl Marln bes about 100

sen under bia commend in Oriento province.

Ray. jalt that Sort hal bie

influenco 1s tha sierra Heeatre dad that bio, sarlie, sympathies ver

den the KRP. Hovever, estei the Strieslo Hales Bocartray debezio, Sort!a

entbasders had coolod sozontet and persias ible muld not be the slar d

seto ery apprasabes to Sorto. (Consorati

I sesa to rocall done pretlosu

•Just traista on Sorts Eterefore, cale Iton 18 called to NWRYa

•attaction for Masterer usa. they Istead to seke of 1%.)

NW 65987 Docld:32412741 Page 2

---

## Page 3

104-10179-10102

Tos KIP paoplo aTo

partías es thea to saduso unalo catection. sas did sos une la pito the

messa al laso pagale lo sa end I did sos paraso the estros furtiver de

Eblo sossion.

GERARD DEDILE

Dlotributions

051g - 03

1 - XPP

2

-Cha & charops (Tot 20 PA)

1 = A/ROP/A

NW 65987 Docld:32412741 Page 3

---

