# DOCID-32347783

## Page 1

Date: 12/14/04

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER

104-10067-10071

RECORD SERIES

JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

80T01357A

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM

TO

TITLE

DATE

PAGES

DIRECTOR, CIA

GARRISON'S CHARGES AGAINST CIA.

09/15/1967

7

SUBJECTS : BRINGUIER, CARL

GARRISON, JAMES

DALZELL, WILLIE

FERNANDEZ, ALBE

HEMMING, GERALD

LABORDE, LAWREN

NOVEL, GORDON

PANEQUE, VICTOR

NORTON, DONALD

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER

CLASSIFICATION : SECRET

RESTRICTIONS :

1B

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 08/03/93

COMMENTS: JFK12 : F10: 1993.08.03.08:18:40:870060

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Flecords Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

65924 Date: 10-25-2021

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10067-10071

NW 65924 Docld:32347783 Page 1

---

## Page 2

-

SEGRET

HYDNT

15 SEP 1967

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director of Central Intelligence

SUBJECT

: Garrison's Charges Against CIA

This summary lists those persons linked in published

comments of Garrison or others to the New Orleans investigation

who also have, have had, or have claimed Agency ties. Because

Garrison has undisclosed information and may have been inten-

tionally misleading, the information in this paper should be viewed

as only a partial indication of the case against CIA that Garrison is

expected to elaborate in court.

Clay L. Shaw

Relationship to Case

Facts re CIA

Indicted for conspiracy to

Contact of DCS office, New

assassinate President Kennedy.

Orleans, 1948-1956. Source

Garrison has not linked Shaw to CIA of several DCS reports,

in any known statement.

Trial is

chiefly on Latin America.

expected to start late September of

Introduced the then DCCI,

early October 1967.

Gen. Charles P. Cabell, who

addressed its members, on

9 May 1961, to the New Orleans'

Foreign Policy Association.

Lawrence J. Laborde

Relationship to Case

His son, Michael W. Laborde,

who has no CIA ties, told the

FBI of the father's tie to CLA

Facts re CIA

DD/P (JMWAVE) contact from

February 1961 to April 1962.

Served as officer on ship used

SECRET

Exclut 1 kian eulerall.

CarS, 2:1

-2/300 19

NW 65924 Docld:32347783 Page 2

06538

---

## Page 3

SECHEF

RIB.

and has been extensively

debriefed by Garrison's

office. On ll May 1967

Lawrence Laborde telephoned

the DCS office, New Orleans,

said he feared a Garrison

subpoena, offered to leave the

U.S., and requested instruc-

tions. (He was told that the

New Orleans office was in no

position to advise him.)

for Cuban operations.

Emilio Santana Galino

Facts re CIA

Recruited by DD/P (JMWAVE)

in October 1962 as guide for

infiltration operation in Cuba,

carried out in May 1963.

Exfiltrated with family.

He

was dropped 15 October 1963

in Miami because operation no

longer tenable and some of his

reporting not truthful. Knew

by true or other names 8 CLA

staff members and 14 other

agents.

Relationship to Case

Cuban burglar convicted in New

Orleans in 1964, placed on

probation, allowed to go to Miami,

recalled to New Orleans by

Garrison 12 February 1967 and

subjected to five days of ques-

tioning. FBI report says SANTANA

was alleged to own a Manlicher-

Carcano rifle like Oswald's and to

have been in Dealy Plaza at time of

assassination on orders of the

alleged conspirators (Shaw, Oswald,

David Ferrie, and Sergio Arcacha

Smith). During June 1964 listed

CIA as employer in loan application

for car purchase.

Victor Manuel Paneque y Batista

Relationship to Case

Facts re CIA

Carlos Quiroga identified

Arrived in U.S. September

Paneque to Garrison on 21

1960 from Cuba, where he had

January 1967 as having been in

been chief of rural police.

charge of training at a military

JMWAVE requested POA 10

camp located in Lacombe,

ouisiana, in August 1963. Th

August 1964. Granted 13

November 1964. Report of 5

raining site was on or near Lak

October 1965 stated Paneque was

SECRET DN237

NW 65924 Docld:32347783 Page 3

---

## Page 4

(

SECRET

3

(

Pontchartrain. Garrison claims

that the camp was run by CIA. No

available information indicating

direct contact between Paneque

and Garrison or staff.

to be dropped at the end of

that month for lack of any

immediate operational use

• for him. CIA had no tie with

any training camp on or near

Lake Pontchartrain.

Alberto Federico Fernandez Hechavarria

Relationship to Case

Facts re CIA

On 12 July 1967 Michael W.

Laborde told a Cuban working

for Garrison, "Mike" LNU, that

one Alberto FERNANDEZ WaS

the head of the Cuban organization

with which his father had worked.

"Mike" said that Gerald Patrick

[Hemming Jr. and one Roy LNU

had also told him about the

activity of Lawrence Laborde and

Alberto Fernandez with anti-

Castro Cuban organizations.

There is no available information

indicating direct contact between

Fernandez and Garrison or his

staff. Fernandez lives in Key

Biscayne, Fla.

DD/P (JMWAVE) contact

starting December 1960 and

continuing at least through

31 January 1966. UFGA-24373

of that date, the latest report

in the 201 file, stated financial

assistance had ceased but contact

was continuing. Further checks

are being conducted.

Carlos Jose Bringuier

Facts re CIA

Formerly the New Orleans

leader of the Student

Revolutionary Directorate

Relationship to Case

On 6 April Bringuier told New

Orleans office of DCS he had

• been summoned to Garrison's

office at unstated date, polygraphed,

and queried re CIA contact.

Believed his denial passed muster.

Also questioned by Alberto Fowler,

RYDIT

SECRET

office, New Orleans. (Further

NW 65924 Docld:32347783 Page 4

---

## Page 5

FICAT

-SECHET

a Cuban who is a Garrison

investigator. According to

a statement to the FBI by

Carlos Quiroga, Fowler has

claimed that Garrison will

prove that Bringuier was aware

of Oswald's affiliation with CIA.

According to the Warren

Commission report (Vol. X, pp.

32-50) there was an altercation

and fight between Oswald and

Bringuier on 9 August 1963 and

a radio debate on 21 August

1963, when Oswald identified

himself as a Marxist.

Gerald Patrick Hemming JI.

Relationship to Case

Michael W. Laborde furnished

office about Hemming and other ex-

marines and soldiers of fortune

allegedly involved in anti-Castro

activities.. On.8 July 1967

Hemming and Roy LNU (possibly

Collins, an associate of Hemming)

went to Garrison's office.

Hemming is currently living in

Baton Rouge. On 28 February

1963 said that his group planned

to send a white feather to

President Kennedy. Had meeting

with General Edwin A. Walker on

12 July 1963. Has made derogatory

remarks about CIA.

details re contact have again

been requested of DCS.)

Bringuier was investigated by

• the FBI on behalf of the Warren

Commission. He has had no

contact with the DD/P, and there

is no DD/P file on him.

Facts re CIA

Hemming has denied sponsorship

in touch with their Los Angeles

being sought.) A WH memoran-

dum of February 1965 states that

the DD/P has never had any

operational relationship with

Hemming: A cable from a WH

Division covert operations office

in New Orleans, BARR 1682 of

18 June 1964, reported that

Hemming's group had threatened

to create a scene to embarrass

CIA.

SECRET

NW 65924 Docld:32347783 Page 5

---

## Page 6

(

SECRET

Relationship to Case

Baton Rouge attorney, committee

counsel for Joint Legislative

Committee on Un-American

Jack N. Rogers

Facts re CIA

Has been a source of the DCS

office in New Orleans since

September 1959.

Activities of the State of

Louisiana.

Has been in touch

with Garrison and his staff.

William Wayne Dalzell

Relationship to Case

Gordon Duane Novel told the FBI

on 6 May 1967 that Dalzell had

been in touch with the FBI and with

CLA, according to Dalzell's former

landlady, and that Garrison was

interested in Dalzell. FBI files

link Dalzell to charges of trans-

porting stolen property, fraud,

and gun-running.

Facts re CIA

Dalzell was in touch with the

New Orleans office of the DCS

on 15 November 1960, 20

January 1961, and 1 February

1961, in connection with his

proposals for a Radio Free Cuba.

There were no subsequent DOS

contacts. There have been no

DD/P contacts.

Schlumberger Well Surveying Corporation

Relationship to Case

Garrison has charged that Gordon

Novel; Sergio Arcacha Smith,

and others robbed a munitions

unker at Houma, Louisiana.

jordon Novel has stated that the

munitions in the bunker belonged

to the Schlumberger Corporation

and that he and others removed

the contents of the bunker in

August 1961 at the instigation of

CIA.

Facts re CIA

The New Orleans office of

he DCS had one contact with

Charles A. Doh, manager of

the Schlumberger office in New

Orleans, ir. June 1955. There

has been occasional but circum-

spect contact with the main

ichlumberger office, in Houston

or an extended but unspecified

period. Such contact continues.

SECRET

ANW 65924 Docld:32347783 Page 6

---

## Page 7

RIBAT

SECRET

(

Relationship to Case

In a Vancouver Sun interview

printed 8 August 1967 Norton

claimed that he started working

for CIA in mid-1957, that the

association ended in November

1966, and that in 1958 he

delivered $150, 000 in CIA funds

to David Ferrie for transfer

to Cuba, and that in 1962 Clay

Shaw passed him $50,000 to

be couriered to Monterrey,

Mexico, where Norton gave

this sum to. Oswald. On 15

July 1967 a representative of

Garrison's office flew with

Norton to New Orleans, where

his story was taped. Garrison.

has said that he plans to use

Norton as a witness during

Shaw's trial.

Donald P. Norton

Facts re CIA

Norton's story is a lie. He

has had no link with CIA. FBI

reporting shows that Donald

Philetus Norton, undoubtedly

the same person, was discharged

from the U.S. Army (according

to his mother) "with a nervous

condition"; he has a record of

nine arrests, between 1949 and

1958 alone, for embezzlement,

forgery, bad checks, etc.

Relationship to Case

Gordon D. Novel

Facts re CIA

All of Novel's claims about

association with CIA are lies.

(The Agency has also had no

tie to Stephen Plotkin.) His

motives remain obscure. One

possibility is that he is in

collusion with Garrison.

SEORET

SW 65924 Docld:32347783 Page 7

---

## Page 8

Trait

SEGRCT

others robbed the Schlumberger

bunker in Houma, La., at CIA's

instigation and that he ran the

Evergreen Advertising Agency

in New Orleans as a CIA front.

He left in a New Orleans apartment

a letter, subsequently handed to

Garrison, implying a tie between

Novel and CIA operation Double-

Chek. On 28 May 1967 Novel sent

to the DCI a telegram about the

Garrison investigation. On 22

August 1967 he telephoned the DCS

office in New Orleans and said

that he would try to keep CIA from

becoming involved in Garrison's

investigation.

In a Chicago TV

interview of 15 May 1967 Novel

said that he met Garrison in 1966

and later worked for him as a

counter-audio expert. He left

New Orleans for Columbus, Ohio,

shortly after the Garrison inves-

tigation started. Garrison's

subsequent efforts to secure his

extradition were not successful.

-SECRET

NW 65924 Docld:32347783 Page 8

---

