# DOCID-32362110

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY

INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER

: 104-10120-10467

RECORD

SERIES

: JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

80T01357A

DOCUMENT

INFORMATION

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM

WITHHELD

TO

: CHIEF,

SECURITY ANALYSIS GROUP

TITLE

: MEMO: REVEREND MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR DEPARTMENT OF

JUSTICE REQUEST.

DATE

PAGES

12/21/1976

1

SUBJECTS : KING, MARTIN L

DOCUMENT TYPE

CLASSIFICATION

:

PAPER

SECRET

RESTRICTIONS

CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

COMMENTS

JFK43

12/14/97

: F25

RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

: 1997.12.14.08:28:59:090108

Heleased under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Flecords Collection Act of

1992(44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

65924 Date: 10.26-2021

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10120-10467

NW 65924 Docld:32362110 Page 1

---

## Page 2

CONFIDENTIAL

21 December 1976

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Security Analysis Group

FROM

: John S. Hunt

SUBJECT

: Reverend Martin Luther King, JI.

Department of Justice Request

1. Reference is made to our 21 October 1976 (OS 64363/A)

response to a Department of Justice request which forwarded to

the General Counsel copies of numerous

Office of Security

documents which the Department of Justice had asked to review.

2. On 17 December 1976 five Department of Justice

attorneys, headed by Mr. Frederick G. Folsom,

met with the

undersigned and Mr. George Jameson of the Office of General

Counsel to review the referenced material. Mr.

Sovern of the Special

Assistant/DDO's Office was also present

to make certain Directorate of Operations documents available

for review.

3.

Mr. Folsom and his associates reviewed all of the

Office of Security documents and in general commented that

they had not discovered any

new or startling information, and

in fact Mr. Folsom stated "there are no smoking guns in your

[CIA's] files." Mr. Folsom also stated that he does not intend

to request any copies of Agency documents, although he did not

preclude such a possibility in the future and asked that the

documents be maintained by the Office of General Counsel

pending completion of the Department of Justice's inquiry.

4. Mr. Jameson will advise the undersigned should he

receive any additional requests from the Department of Justice

in this regard.

John

S.

Hunt

Security Analysis Group

E2 IMPDET

CL BY 007472

CONHUENTIAL

NW 65924 Doold 5236

---

