# DOCID-32309610

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

4/9/2018

Agency Intormation

AGENCY

FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10299-10021

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 65-68043-238

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: LEG. LO

TO : DIRECTOR. FBI

TITLE:

Heleased under the John F.

Kennedy Assassination

Records Collection Act of

992 (44 USC 2107 Note].

Case#:Nw 65994 Date:

11-09-2021

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS

10/27/1967

22

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS:

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS:

CS. ASSOC; LTR. CP. SOVIET UNION. ANTI-COMMUNIST

PAPER: TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

IC: 4

Redact

09/28/1996

INDEFINITE

INC 4 LTR. NOTE, ENV

NWV 65994

Docld:32309610 Page 1

---

## Page 2

Best avas-able image

- ce

UNI

To

"Ro

TATE.

_KNMENT

Memorandum

Director, FBI (65-68043)

Legat, London (65-745) (P)

.. BJECT:

HAROLD ADRIAN RUSSELL PHILBY

ESP - R

SECRETI

3-15-GPATE:

10/27/67

CLASSIFIED BY 5kteh SUD KSR

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X

1374978

773 CAR. of

For complete understanding of the enclosures,

following is noted:

(5)

the

(u)

The BERNABD SON mentioned in Mrs. HANDLEY's

otter is a Russian-born,

naturalized

Briton who in the

1930's edited a Communist Party paper in the Soviet Union.

He is now reportedly anti-Communist and has authored many

tairly successful books which tend toward the sensational.

He is currently writing a book about the British frogman

CRABB, whom he believes to be alive in Russia. (@/u)

CLAY/SHAN mentioned in HANDLEY's letter is, ac-

cording to per, identical with a VICTOR DE MARIO, a

former

U.S, military officer whom she met in England during WorId

War II:

98

IC.

s.)

oncerning the names

letter

the following is

set forth

in London 8 10/17/67

-(5)

noted y

"Who's

Who in England® indicates th

15142

CHILD's full name

15_ NA

MEYER VICTOR

t: VICTOR ROTH-.

3

- Bureau (Enc. 12)

OTHSCHILD

1

- Liaison (direct) *

B5: 565-68043-23811

1

London

SECRET

LM: vw.

(5)

Buy U.S

Bonds Repularly on DET 81 1997

USE ATTACHED"

..Mo

NW 65994

Docld:32309610 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Lon 65-745

was born 10/31/10. He attended Trinity College in the

early thirties and was a Fellow at Trinity 1935-39. From

1939 to 1945 he was in Army Intelligence

The AUGUSTUS

JOhn mentioned in the enclosure, if still alive, would be

well in his eighties.

He was considered one of

the fore-

most art authorities in the U.k. for many years, and was

head of various art galleries.

The BROOMAN-WHITE mentioned

iS RICHARD CHARLES BROOMAN-WHITE, born 2/16/12. He attended

Trinity College, Cambridge, apparently in

early thirties

as he was engaged in political activities from 1935 to 1938.

From 1939 through 1945 he was in the Intelligence Corps.

Prior to his death some time between the present and 1964

he held such offices

as the Lord Commissioner of the Treasury,

1957-60; Vice Chamberlain of Her Majesty's Household, 1960

and Under-Secretary of State in the scottish Office from Su

It is interesting to note that several of the

above people apparently. attended college with subject:

BURGESS, or MACLEAN, and also were in intelligence during

the same period of time.

SECRET

024:74-2-

NW 65994

Docld:32309610 Page 3

---

## Page 4

PEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

POSTPONEAENT INPORMATION SHERT (JFK MATERIALS)

17

Page (s) withheld entirely at this location in the file.

One or more of the following

statements, where indicated,

explain this deletion (these deletions) .

Deletions were made pursuant to the postponement

rationale indicated below with no segregable material

available for disclosure.

All references relate to

Section 6 of the "President John F. Kennedy Assassination

Records Collection Act of 1992."

[] Subsection 1A

, (intelligence agent's identity)

[] Subsection 1B (intelligence source or method)

In subsection ic lother matter relating to military

defense, invelligence operations or

the conduct of foreign relations)

(]

Subsection 2

(living person who provided

confidential information)

1] subsection a

If subsection :

(unwarranted invasion of privacy)

(cooperating individual of foreign

government,

currently requiring

Protection)

1] subsection s

(security or protective procedure,

currently or expected to be utilized)

Information pertained to a matter unrelated, to the JFK

Assassination investigation.

For

your information:

The following number is

regarding

this page

65-68043-238

be used

for reference.

(these pages) :

enclosure

XXXXXXXXXX

XXXXxxxxXX

XXXXXXXXXX

XXXXXXXXXX

XXXXXXX.

xXXXXXXxXx

NVV 65994

Docld:32309610 Paqe 4

---

## Page 5

NOTICE OF

CLASSIFICATION

ACTION

Zuel

File #6

65043

serial 238

classification SECRET

Exempt from

Gps, Category 1

Date of Declassification Indefinite

Reviewed br

soptanch

Date

1/12/77

NW 65994

Docld:32309610

Page 5

---

## Page 6

NOTICE OF

CLASSIFICATION

ACTION

Exil.

File #

S1680&3serial 238

classification _SECRET

Exempt from

eDs, Category 1

Date of Declassicication y. Indefinite

Reviewed by

Eppuch

Date

NW 65994

Docld:32309610 Page 6

---

## Page 7

* 213M

Classified hi

Declassify ou

BADR */2/85

NW 65994

Docld:32309610 Page 7

---

