# DOCID-32400088

## Page 1

i-".

•*1°

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER : 104-10133-10341

RECORD

SERIES

JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

80T01357A

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

AGENCY ORIGINATOR

: CIA

FROM

: OSBORN, HOWARD J.

TO

: DDCI

TITLE : INFORMATION ON ROBERT

A. MAHEU

DATE

:06/24/1966

PAGES

: 7

SUBJECTS :

CASTRO, FIDEL

GANGSTER ACTION

ROSELLI, JOHNNY

MAHEU,

ROBERT

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER

CLASSIFICATION

: SECRET

RESTRICTIONS

: 1A

CURRENT STATUS

: 'RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 08/03/93

COMMENTS : JFK48

:F18: 1993.08.03.18:49:32:870036: THERE ARE

TWO PAGE 4'S IN THIS DOCUMENT;

FILE ORIGINAL

PREVIOUSLY SANITIZED.

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

65924 Diate: 10.26-2021

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10133-10341

NW 65924 Docld:32400088 Page 1

---

## Page 2

2.83, 0117,

CONFDENTIAL

21 June 1956

MEMORANDUM FOR:--Isputy Director of Central Intelligenca

SUBJECT

: MAHaU, Robert A.

1. This memorandum le for information only.

2. In August 1950, Mr. Richard M. Bissell approached

Colonel Sheffield Edwards to determine if the Office of Security

had assets that may assist in a sensitive mission reguiring

gangates-type action. The mission target was the liumidstion ci

Fidel Castro.

3. Because of its extreme sensitivity, only a small group

was made privy to the project. The DCI was briefed and gave his

approval, Colonel J. C. King, Chief, WH Division, was briefad,

but all details were deliberataly concealed from any of the

IMWAVE oificials. Certain TSD and Commo personnel partici-

pated in the initial planning stages, but were not witting of the

purpose of the mission.

4. Robert A. Mabeu was contacted, briefed generally on

the project, and requested to ascertain if he could develop an en-

tree into the gangster elements as the first step toward accom-

plishing the desired goal.

5. MI. Maheu advised that he had met one Johnny Roselli

on several occasions while visiting Las Vegas. He osly knew

him casually through clients, but was given to understand that

he was a high-ranking member of the "syndicate" and controlled

all of the ice-making machines on the Strip, Mahau reasoned

that, if Roselli was in fact a member of the clan, he undoubtedly

had connections leading into the Cuban gambling interests.

CLASSIFIED BY 063394

1999426

EXEMPT FROM, GENERAL DECLASSIFICATION

SCHEDULE OF ! !. 1187: 100933IO% CATEGORY:

§ 58(1). (32

i..

:: {ol (dirale one or soro)

AUTOBIATICALLY DECLASSIFIED ON

@ownquaded toconfidssteal

(unless impossible, insert date or erent)

CONFIDENTIAL

FIES CHILY

Excledad free artaslie

1-97-779

NW 65924 Docld:32400088 Page 2

---

## Page 3

LESTET

CONFIDENTIAL

6. Maheu was asked to approich Roselli, who inaw Maheu

as a personal relations executive handling domestic and foreign

accounts, and tall him that he hud recently been retained by a

client who represanted several International business firms

which were suffering heavy financial losses in Cuba as a result

of Castro's action. They were conviaced that Castro's removal

vas the answer to their problem and were willing to pay a price

o1 $150,000 for its successful accomplishment. It was to be mado

clear to Roselli that tha U.S. Government was not, and should not,

becoma "ware of this operation.

7. The pitch was made to Roselli on 14 September 1950 at.

the Hilton Plaza Hotel, New York City. His initlal reaction was

to void getting involved but, through Maheu's persuasion, he

agreed to introduce him to a friend, Sam Gold, who knew the

"Cuban crowd. " Roselli made it clear he did not want any money

for his part and balieved Sam would faal the sama way. Neithei

of these individuals wisever paid out of Agency funds.

8.

During the week of 25 September, Maheu was introduced

to Sam who was staying at the Fontainebleau Hotel, Miami Beach.

as tritial impression o! Sam was that oi a hard, uncouth indi-

vidushiho looked and acted like 1 common run-o!-the-mill hood

lum-. However, his living accommodations at the hotel ballad

thise is did the-fact that ivlaheu learned Sam was under periodic

survaillance by the FBI.! It was several weeks after his meeting

with Sam and Joe, who ivas identified to him as a courier operating

between Havana and Miami, that he saw photographs of both of

these individuals in the Sunday supplemental "Parade." They

sere identified as Momo Salvatore Glancina and Santos Trafficant,

respectively. Both were on the list of the Attorney General's

ten most-wanted men. The former was described as the Chicago

chieftain of the Cosa Nostra and successor to Al Capone, and the

latter, the Cosa Nostra bogs of Cuban operations. Maheu called

this office immediately upon ascertaining this information.

9. In discussing the possible mathods of accomplishing

this mission, Sam suggested that they not resort to firearms but,

if he could be furnished with some type of potent pill, that could

CLASSIFIC BY 0633481DBAYZE

EXFMIT FROX GENFRAL DECLASSIFICATION

SCHEDULE Or

1% ENRAPTOX CATECORY:

§ 5810.6

:!o? (eirule one or moro)

AUTUMNiLLALLY DECLASSIFIED ON

downgraded to conEdentral

(unless impossible, insert date or ereat)

CONFIDENTIAL

EES CALY

NW 65924 Docld:32400088 Page 3

---

## Page 4

CONFIDENTLAL

MY ENT

be placed in Castro's food or drink, it would be a much more

eifective operation. Sam indicated that he had a prospective

nomines in the person of Juan Orta, a Cuban official who had

been receiving kickback payments irom the gambling interests,

who still had access to Castro and was in a financial bind.

10. Cornelius Roosevelt, Chief, ISD, was consulted and

assigned DI. Raymond Triechler to develop a pill that had the

elements of rapid solubility, bigh lethal content, and little or

no traceability. Six of these items were produced and, after

being checked out for their effectiveness by Dr. Edward M.

Gunn, threa pills were ultimately turned guer to Sam for the

miasion. Neither ISD nor Dr. Gurn wIs briafed on the ultimata

nsa of the pills.

11. Joe delivered the pills to Orta. After several weeks

of reported attempts, Orta apparently got cold feet and asked out

of the assignment. He suggested another candidate who made

several attempts without success.

12. Joe then indicated that Dr. Anthony Verona, one of tee

principal officers in the Cuban Exila Junta, had become dis-

affected with the apparent ineffectual progress of the Junta and

was willing to handla the mission through his ova resources.

13. DI. Verona was approached and jumped at the oppor -

tunity of getting involved in an independent operation. He was

told that the private interests backing the project did not want

the U. S. Goverament and, particularly the CIA, to know of their

involvement. (So far as thia Cflice knows, he has never divulged

his participation in the project to the Agency.

14. He asked, as a prereguisite to the deal, that he be given

$10, 000 for organizational expenses and requested $1, 000 worth

of communications equipment.

15. Dr. Verona's potential was never fully exploited, as

the project was canceled shortly after the Say of Pigs episode.

Verona was advised that the offer was withdrawn, and the pilla

wers retrieved.

CLASSIFIEd 880633440779426

EXEMPT FRO% ENEMAIL DFCLASSIFICATION

SCHEDULE C:

KIPTION CATEGORY:

§ 58111.0

: 1o) (circls one or moro)

AUTÜN.COMMiL'Y LECLASSIFIED ON

saunquaded to confrératul

(unless impossibie, insert date or erent)

3

EFE ONLY

SOMET

ONFIDENTIAL

NW 65924 Docld:32400088 Page 4

---

## Page 5

STORET

ELO ONLY

CONFIDENTLAL

16. Of significant interest was an incident which iavolved

a request levied by Sam upon Maheuland now shapes up as a

potential flap.]

At the height of the project negotiations, Sam

expressad concern about his girlfriend, -Phyllis

McGuirerwho-he-learned.was.getting.much.atten-

tion Trom Dan Rowan-while both were booked-at a

Lar vegas tght club. (Rawannat thattimo a-rela-

Martin coast-t@-coast TV show.) Sam asked Maheu

to put a bug in Rowan's room to detarmina toe ex-

tent of his intimacy. with MIYy McGuire. _Maheu

tott Sars he didn't have the facilities, whereupon

Sam threatened taleare Miami to go to Vegas and

tako care of the matter himself: In ordar to pre-

vent this, Mahau contacted Edward Dubois, a

Florida investigator, and agkad him to handle the

job.] =

Iristead of instailtag a bug in the.room the

techniciar placada tap on the phone, bick ob-

viously did not serve Sam's purpose

" The techni-

cian involved in the assigament was discovered in

the process, arrested, and taken to the Sheriff's

office for questioning. After balaited to reach

Malaid ox telephone, he called Maheu at-the or -

Kenilworth Hotel, Miami, and informed him that

he had been detained by the police.

This call wag

made in the presence of the Sheriff's personnel.

Subsequently, the Department of Justice an-

nounced its intention to prosecute Maheu along

with the technician. On 7 February 1962, the

Director of Security briefed the Attorney General,

Robert Kennedy, on the circumstances leading up

to Maheu's involvement in the wireta?. At our ra-

quest, prosecution was dropped.

CLASSIFIED BY OSS344 I>MAYM

SCHEDVRE G-

CECIL DECLASSIFICATION

§ 58111.0

!:FTION CATEGORY:

:¡.! (circle one or more)

LiY DECLASSIFIED ON

CONFIDENTIAL

(onlesa impossibie, insert dale or ereat)

NW 65924 Docld:32400088 Page 5

---

## Page 6

CONFIDENTIAL

16.

Of significant interest was an incident which involved

a request levied by Sam upon Maheu and now shapes up as a

potential Пlap.]

At tho height of the projact negotiations, Sam

expressed concern t

Sam asked Mahau

to put a bug la

•room to determino the ex-

tent of pad

Ma Maheu

tor same bodhat have the facilities, weareapon

Sam threatened to loaro iMitami to go to Vegas and

talo care ofthe matter himself. In order tó pre-

vent this. Mahau-contacted-Edward Dubois, a

Florida inveatigator, and asked him to handle tha

10%.7

Icistead of inataliag a bug'in the poom, tha

cian involved in the assigamant was discovered in

tha process, arrested, and taken to the Sherlif's

offico for questioning: After hairiled to reach

Duboia by telephone, the called Mahoufat-the on

Keniwort Hoses, Miami, and informed him that

he had been detained by the police. This call was

made in the presence of the Sheriff's personnel.

Subseguently, the Department of Justice an-

nounced its intention to prosacute Maheu along

•with the technician. On 7 February 1962, the

Director of Security briefed the Attorney General,

Robert Kennedy, on the circumstantes leadiag up

to Mahau's involvement in the wiretap. At our ra-

quest, prosecution was dropped.

CLASSIFIED BY 08338644

EXFIPT FAG

поучух

SCHEDULE 0:

PS.AL DECLASSIFICATION

§ 5611, 0

AKISTION CATEGORY:

= (.) (circle one os more)

AUTUM..CONLY GECLASSIFIED ON

Engrated to conflental

(unless irapos

ibie, insert date or eveat)

CONFIDENTIAL

EvEs City

NW 65924 Docld:32400088 Page 6

---

## Page 7

CONFIDENTIAL

Iwo articles appeared in the Chicago press,

one on 16 August 1953, and ons on 20 August 1963,

that suggeated Sam was working jith the Agency.

The first article appeared in the Chicago Sun-Times

written by staif writer, Sandy Smith, 'and had as its

headling: CIA Sought Giancana Help for Cuba Spying.

It relates that tha Agency reportedly was in touch

with Sam in 1959 and requested that he assist them

in obtaining intelligance out of Cuba. It also men-

tionad the Las Vegas wiretap, which the article

claimed was handled by a "Florida investigative

organization. " It further went on to state that,

upon inquiry of this organization, they stated the

top was placed at the roquest of the Central Intelli-

genca Agency. The other article appeared in the

Chicago Daily News, authored by Columnist Tony

Weitrel, and commented that during March 1962,

Sam confronted an FBI Agent who was shadowing

him and said, "Why don't you fellows leave me

alone? I'm ona of you!" Sam allegedly stated that,

aítar Castro's riga in Cuba, a CIA operative con-

tacted him and wanted to know if Sam could do any-

thing for the Government on the turbulent little island.

Sim said he had friends on both sides, but so clout.

That was it.

17. Roselli was introduced to Jameg P. O'Connell, of this

Office, who was identified to him as an employea of Robert A.

Maheu, Associates. Over the several months of close contact bo-

tween these two individuals, Roselli began to speculate as to

O'Connell's trus employer and, at one point, stated that he was

convinced he was employed by the CIA, and that the project was

sponsored by tha Agency. He hastened to state that he was not

forcing the issue, nor would ha want confirmation of this and,

further, he would not mantion this to anyone else, including Sam.

Sam was never introduced to any Agency parsonnel and, while CIA

was never mentioned to him, it is Maheu's belief he eventually sus-

pacted the Agency was the power behind the operation.

CLASSIFIED BY 053344 17MA476

EXEMPT FRO% CO"TAL CECLASSIFICATION

SCHFOULE OF E.1

SACWPTION CATEGORY:

5

§ 5811), 120

..¡ (circle one or mora)

AUTON

cil LECLASSIFIED ON

CONFIDENTIAL

dungrated foconfidental?

123 DA

(unless irzonsibis, insert date or erent)

SECRET

NW 65924 Docld:32400088 Page 7

---

## Page 8

ITES UNLY CONFIDENTIAL

18. In ivay 1962, because of MI. O'Connell's assignment

to an overseas post, it was decided to turn Roselli over to

Mr. William Harvey, who was at that time Chief, Task Force W.

Harvey was introduced as William Wallter. It is not known whether

Roselli ever became aware of Harvey's true name.

Howard J. Osborn

Director of Security

CLASSIFIED BY 063344

12799436

EXEMPT FROX C:"

SCHEDULE OF El DECLASSIFICATION

• ENSMPTION CATEGORY:

§ 58(1). 62)

• 's. • (•) (circle one or more)

AUTOMATICILLY DECLASSIFIED ON

dongraded to con frdeniral

(aaless impossible, insert date or ereat)

6

CONFIDENTIAL

NW 65924 Docld:32400088 Page 8

---

