# DOCID-32344459

## Page 1

Date: 10/13/99

Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER

RECORD SERIES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

CIA

104-10056-10090

JFK

80T01357A

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM

CHIEF, LAD

TO : SA/ADDO

TITLE : CUBAN MINISTER-COUNSELLOR STATEMENT ON THE

ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT KENNEDY

DATE: 11/11/77

PAGES

1

SUBJECTS : DIAZ LANZ

FIORINI, FRANK

ALLEGED

PLOT

ASSAS.

CUBA EXILES

DOCUMENT TYPE

:. PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION

: SECRET

RESTRICTIONS

: 1B

CURRENT STATUS

RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 06/28/93

OPENING CRITERIA

COMMENTS : JFK1: F6 1993.06.28.14:39:46:250530:

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Ascassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

55924 Date: 10-21-2021

CLASSIFIED

ATTACHMENT

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NW 65924 Docld:32344459 Page 1

---

## Page 2

DD/0?7-1000

11/60/267-7

11 NOV, 1977

INSPECTOR GENERAL

77-2379

MEMORANDUM FOR: SA/ADVO

FROM:

SUBJECT:

REFERENCE:

Raymond A. Warren

Chief, Latin America Division

SLHORIZON-1 Report Mentioning Cuban

Minister:Counsellor Statement

the.

Assassination of President

Kennedy

LA/C0/235-77 Dated 30 September 1977

The referent memorandum reported information from

a ZRWAHOO intelligence report of a statement made by the

Minister-Counsellor (MC)

the Cuban Embassy in Kingston, ,-

Jamaica, on 24 September 1977, that

"Cuban exiles such as

DIAZ Lan (fnu) (sic) and others had been involved in the

assassination of President John F. Kennedy." We believe

that this could refer either to Pedro DIAZ Lanz, or his

brother Marcos DIAZ Lanz, formerly Chief and Deputy Chief,

respectively,

of the Cuban Revolutionary Air Force.

entered the U.S. from Cuba as exiles in mid-1959.

that time the DIAZ Lanz brothers reportedly have been

closely associated with,

and involved in numerous activities

with, Frank STURGIS (aka FIORINI) of Watergate fanne.

Agency assisted in the evacuation of Marcos, and Pedro

entered the U.S. on his own:

Al though both

were debriefed

by the Agency, there is no indication that they were ever

considered Agency assets.

Kingston Station queried source for further infor-

mation as promised in paragraph 4

of the reference.

source said

that the MC referred to the Kennedy assassina-

tion during a pep talk to party members to maintain

security.

that the MC said that "recent infor-

but did not mention any other Cuban exiles by

name or give

any further details.

Although the MC did not identify

source of his information, the Kingston Station source had

the impression that the information might have been included

in a cable from the Cuban Ministry of Foreign Affairs.

source is unable to elicit further information from the MC

without jeopardizing his security.

Raymond A. Warren

Raymond A. Warren

CC :

IG Staff

NG NO

E2 ,

INPDET

CL

RY 1?031

00084

NIV 65924 Docld:32344459 Page 2

---

