# DOCID-32368938

## Page 1

Date: 02/17/05

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER

:104-10142-10133

RECORD

SERIES

: JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

80T01357A

DOCUMENT

INFORMATION

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM

TO

TITLE : JOURNAL OFFICE OF LEGISLATIVE COUNSEL, MONDAY 6 DEC

1976.

DATE :

12/06/1976

PAGES

1

SUBJECTS : HSCA

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER

CLASSIFICATION

: SECRET

RESTRICTIONS

1B

CURRENT STATUS

RELEASED IN. PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 08/05/93

COMMENTS

: JFK55: F8: 1993.08.05.16:14:37:680059

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

55924 Date: 10-26-2021

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10142-10133

NW 65924 Docld:32368938 Page 1

---

## Page 2

Q1A

MTERNAL USE CAT

SECRET

JOURNAL

Chromo

J-I

OFFICE OF LEGISLATIVE COUNSEL

HSCA

•Monday - 6 December. 1976

Contart

1. (Unclassified - BAA) ITAISON Carol Amato, Mouse Soleo

monsies sassina ons statt, called and cancelled the meeting

be held this morning between Richard Sprague, Chief Counsel of the

Committee, Sid Stembridge, DD/OS, and Mi. Cary. Another meeting was

set for 10:30 tomorroir morning. Mr. Stembridge was advised.

2. (Unclassified - BAA) EMPLOYMENT Jason Cook, in the office

of Representative Gus Yatron (D., Pao), called to schedule an employment

interview for Elias "Lee" Tallas, a constituent. An interview was set.

with Mi. Howard Eissner, WARO, for 3:00 this afternoon.

3. (Confidential - GLC) FAA/LIAISON Called Rob Roy Ratiiff,

National Security Council, and he confirmed that the President had signed

another Presidential finding on 3 December.

4. (Secret - GLC) FAA ALERT/LIAISON Called Guy McConnell,

Senate Appropriations Committee staff, and alerted him to the information we

had on the Bob Woodward article, gave him the essential information on

ihe discussions between ourselves and State Department on the Micronesia

Station and the fact that legal memoranda had been submitted to the

Department of Justice.

I mentioned to McConnell my discussions with Charles Snodgrass,

Defense Subcommittee staff, House Appropriations Committee, about what

the Senate is doing on the authorization bill.

1101d him we had received a cable from the field concerning Bill

Jordan's, also of the Committee staff, interest in a sensitive project at

that station. I told McConnell that we would be prepared lo give Jordan a

limited briefing on this mattez when he returns from his trip.

I also told McConnell that we had another Presidential finding and

that Tom White would be by to give him the details.

CIA INTERNAL USE ONLY

SECRET

20151

NW 65924 Docld:32368938 Page 2

---

