# DOCID-32108042

## Page 1

Date: 07/17/96

Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER

: 104-10012-10038

RECORD SERIES

JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

201-289248

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR

CIA

FROM

I [DELETION]]

TO:

DIRECTOR

TITLE

CABLE RE LEE HARVEY OSWALD CONVERSATION WITH OBYRDKOV.

DATE

12/04/76

PAGES

5

SUBJECTS:

OBYRDKOV

PAZ, ELENA

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

SECRET

RESTRICTIONS

1B

CURRENT STATUS

RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

06/24/93

OPENING CRITERIA

COMMENTS: OSW16: V57 1993.06.24.14:28:56:150800:

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act o

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

55924 Date: 10.21-2021

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NW 65924 Docld:32108042 Page 1

---

## Page 2

= 17-71;1MFG: 7.176-

CABLE SEC DISSEM BY

_PER.

TOTAL COPIES 260°

SEGRET.

3°

PERSCEIUNIT NOTIFIED

REPRORUCTION BY OTHER THAI

BSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITEE

STAFF"

ADVANCE COPY ISSUED/SLOTTED

A1:114,25

CLA8

ACTION #

4

6

т 431987

2003, APA00, 57/00/5 20LC

EPS

EGZ

EL A525

PAGE R1

IN

119644

TOR: @41824Z DEC 76

MEXI

38635

TRAVEL PROGRAM

SEE R E 7 4417D1Z DEC 76

STAFF

K/EM

CITE MEXICO CITY 38635

[PASPARE FOR FILMING

•TO: DIRECTOR.

CARLE S: (0))

WN-INTEL RYBAT

REF: DIRECTOR 950256

1. STATION WAS UNABLE TO LOCATE ANY ORIGINAL DOCUMENTS

RELATING TO THE OSWALD CASE, WOULD LIKE TO CALL TO HOS ATTENTION

TWO DOCUMENTS ON MICROFICHE WHICH WILL BE AVAILABLE AT HOS:

A. IN A FILE OF RUSSIAN CONTACTS 150-8-1DO6) THE FOLLOWING

CONVERSATION BETWEEN LEE OSWALD AND A RUSSIAN. O BYRDKOV:

"IN AT (8) MO/THE SAME PERSON WHO PHONED A DAY OR SO AGO

AND SPOKE IN BRÜKEN RUSSIAN SPEAKS TO OB YRDKOV.

MO: HELLO, THIS LEE OSWALD & PHONY SPEAKING; I WAS AT, YOUR

PLACE LAST SATURDAY AND SPOKE TO A CONSUL, AND THEY SAID THAT THEY'D

SEND A TELEGRAM TO WASHINGTON, SO 1 WANTED TO FIND OUT IF YOU HAVE

ANYTHING NEW? BUT I DONIT REMEMBER THE NAME OF THAT CONSUL.

OBY: KOSTIKOV.

HE IS DARK/HAIR OR SKIN?

LEE: YES, MY NAME IS OSWALD.

OBY: JUST A MINUTE I'LL FIND OUT. THEY SAY THAT THEY HAVEN'T

RECEIVED ANYTHING YET.

RE I

04De076

201-289248

NW 65924 Docld:32108042 Page 2

---

## Page 3

7-71 MFG. 7/78

CABLE SEC DISSEM BY.

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED.

ADVANCE COPY IBSUED/SLOTTED

ACTION UNI!

RF.

N

F

ACTION#

T

431987

TOTAL COPIES

RUN BY

PER

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN

ISSUINO OFFICE IS PROHIDITED

ST AFF

BY

AT

FILE.

VR:

E1 A5 25

PAGE 12

TOR: 041824Z DEC 76

IN 119644

MEXI 38635

LEE: HAVE THEY DONE ANYTHING?

OBY: YES, THEY SAY THAT A REQUEST HAS BEEN SENT OUT, BUT

NOTHING HAS BEEN RECEIVED YET,

LEE: AND WHAT..,? LOBY HANGS UP/,"

THE FOLLUWING HANDWRITTEN NOTATIONS APPEAR ON THE SHEET OF

TRANSCRIPT: AT THE TOP OF THE PAGE "ANNIE SAW" WITH A LINE THROUGH THE

WORDS. ALSO AT THE TOP OF THE PAGE:. "INDEX", WHICH IS CROSSED

OUT AND THE WORD "DONE" WRITTEN ALONG SIDE. IN THE LEFT MARGIN

THE NOTATION "LIENVOY 1 OCT '63", ALSO IN THE LEFT MARGIN. NEXT

TO THE WORDS "LAST SATURDAY": "28 SEPT", AND BELOW THAT! - "LEE

OSWALD (PHON'", AT THE BOTTOM OF THE PAGE: "REPORTED TO HOS

ON 8 OCT 163", AND UNDER THAT: "NO LOCAL DISSEM'", FOLLOWED

BY THE SIGNATURE "MANELL", FURTHER DOWN THE PAGE IS THE

NOTATION: "THIS RECV'D 8 OCT '63" UNDER WHICH IS THE SIGNATURE

"MAINELL",

B. IN THE LICOOKY OPS FILE (50-6-129-31 WE FIND THE

FOLLOWING MEMO OF 5 OCTOBER 1964 FROM JOYCE H, PINEINCH (P) CAN

AMERICAN FEMALE CONTRACT AGENT WHO APPARENTLY NO LONGER RESIDES

IN MEXICO: "MEXICAN COMMUNISTS WHO HAD CONTACT WITH OSWALD, AS

HAS NOT APPEARED IN WARREN COMMISSION WRITE-UPS TO PRESS.

NW 65924 Docld:32108042 Page 3

---

## Page 4

CABLE SEC DISSEM BY

PER

PERSCH/UNIT NOTIFIED.

ADVANCE COPY ISSUED/SLOTTED

ACTION UNIT

RF. FILE.

TOTAL COPIES

SEGRET

REPRODUCTIQN BY OTHER THAI

ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIDITEE

ST AFF

BY

AT

VR.

ACTION#

431987

E1 A5 25

PAGE 23

IN 119644

TOR: 841824Z DEC 76

MEXI 38635

"ALL WEEKEND, ELENA GARRO DE PAZ, ELENA PAZ, (THE DAUGHTER) AND

DEBA GARRO DE GUERRERO GALVAN SAT AROUND RECALLING DETAILS OF HAVING

BEEN INN A GROUP WITH OSWALD HERE LAST FALL DURING THE DAYS THAT

HE WAS IN MEXICO, THE WRITE-UPS OF THE WARREN COMMISSION REPORT

IN THE NEWSPAPERS SPARKED THIS DISCUSSION, AND THEY APPARENTLY HAD

NEVER REALLY SAT AROUND DETERMINED TO PIECE IT ALL TOGETHER,

ALTHOUGH ALL THREE WERE DEEPLY AFFECTED BY KENNEDY'S ASSASSINATION,

SEEMED LITERALLY TO ADORE THE KENNEDY FAMILY IMAGE, STILL

FOLLOW ROBERT KENNEDY'S CAREER WITH GREAT INTEREST AND ADMIRATION.

• "THE MAIN POINTS:

"ELENA AND DEBA. ARE FIRST COUSINS OF

THREE YOUNG MEXICANS NAMED

DURAN: RUBEN, HORACIO, AND LYNN. HORACIO IS THE HUSBAND OF SYLVIA

DURAN, THE MEXICAN GIRL WHO WAS ARRESTED FOR QUESTIONING ABOUT

OSWALD BECAUSE SHE HAD BEEN IN TOUCH WITH HIM AT THE CUBAN

EMBASSY WHEN HE WENT THERE LOOKING FOR A VISA, ISHE IS OR WAS

ALSO A RINGLEADER AT THE GUBAN-MEXICAN INSTITUTE ON TOKLO, I

REMEMBER,.

"WHILE OSWALD WAS HERE LAST FALL THE DURAN COUSINS INVITED THE GARRO

SISTERS AND YOUNG ELENA PAZ TO A "TWIST PARTY" AT THE HOME OF

RUBEN DURAN MID-WEEK, A FEW COMMUNISTS THEY KNEW IDEBA IS A •

SEGRET

NW 65924' Docld:32108042 Page 4

---

## Page 5

7-71 MFG. 7178

CABLE SEC DISSEM BY.

PER.

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED.

ADVANCE COPY ISSUED/SLOTTED

ACTION UNIT

RF. FILE.

N

F

ACTION #

T

451987

E1 4525

BY

TOTAL COPIES

SECRET.

AT

RUN BY

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN

ISSUING OFFICE IS

PROHIBITED

STAFF

4

VR.

2

3

PAGE d4

TOR: K41824Z DEC 76

IN 119644

MEXI 38635

COMMUNIST HERSELF, AND ELENA HAS BEEN IN TOUCH WITH COMMUNISTS

SINCE SHE WAS A YOUNG GIRL AND WENT TO REPUBLICAN SPAIN WITH

OCTAVIO PAZI AND A NUMBER OF PEOPLE WHO STRUCK THEM AS VERY

PECULIAR AT THE TIME, WERE THERE. AND OSWALD WAS THERE WITH TWO

OTHER BEATNIK LOOKING BOYS, ONE OF WHOM WAS VERY TALL AND ALL

THREE OF WHOM THEY REMEMBER QUITE WELL. WHEN THEY BEGAN ASKING

QUESTIONS ABOUT THE AMERICANS, WHO WERE STANDING TOGETHER ALL

EVENING AND DIDN'T DANCE AT ALL. THEY WERE SHIFTED TO ANOTHER

ROOM, I THE GARROS WERE, HOWEVER, THEY WERE INTRIGUED BECAUSE

THEIR CUUSIN SAID HE DIDN'T KNOW WHO THEY WERE. EXCEPT THAT

•SYLVIA DURAN HAD BROUGHT THEM, AND NONE OF THE OTHER GUESTS MADE

ANY ATTEMPT. TO APFROACH THEM, ALSO, WHEN THE GARROS WERE SO

INSISTENT ABUT MEETING THEM, THE DURANS REPLIED THAT THE BOYS

WERE LEAVING TÖWN VERY EARLY THE NEXT MORNING, THE NEXT DAY,

WELL ALUNG IN THE DAY, THE GARRO SISTERS AND ELENITA PAZ, THE

DAUGHTER, SAW ALL THREE BOYS TOGETHER ON INSURGENTES. IN OTHER

WORDS, THEY HAD NOT LEFT TOWN, AT THE TIME, THEY REMARKED ABOUT.

IT .

"AS SOON AS SWALD'S PICTURE WAS PRINTED IN THE NEWSPAPERS ALL

THREE CLEARLY REMEMBERED HIM. AND OF COURSE THE ARREST OF

SECRE

NW 65924 Docld:32108042 Page 5

---

## Page 6

71 MFG. 7/10

CABLE SECÁDISSEM BY

PER

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED.

ADVANCE COPY ISSUED/SLOTTED

ACTION UNIT

RF. FILE.

N

TOTAL COPIES

SECRE

REFPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAI

ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITEE

STAFF

BY

AT

VR.

ACTION#

431937

E1 A5 25

PAGE D5 - 05

TOR: 041824Z DEC 76

IN 119644

MEX! 38635

SYLVIA DURAN ALMOST IMMEDIATELY AFTERWARD, UNDERLINED THEIR

CERTAINTY, THEY WERE SO SICKENED (ELENA AND ELENITAS THAT

THEY BROKE OFF THEIR RELATIONS

WITH THE DURANS. HOWEVER,

THEIR COUSINS VERY NERVOUSLY LOOKED THEM UP LATER, DEBA GARRO DE

GUERFERO GALVAN SAYS THAT LYNN DURAN AND ONE OF THE DURAN BOYS :

HAVE MADE TRIPS TO TEXAS, AND THAT MOST CONSPICUOUSLY THEY

HAVA ALL PROSPERED THIS LAST YEAR, ALWAYS POOR BEFORE, THEY

NOW HAVE AN EXPENSIVE CAR EACH.

"HORACIO DURAN WURKS AT "EL DIA" NEWSPAPER. "

C. AT THE BOTTOM OF THE SECOND SHEET OF THE REPORT THE FOLLOWING

WORDS ARE HANDWRITTEN: "RETURNED ON 21 APR 65 AS L/1 NEVER

REGAINED CONTACT WITH ELENA GARRO DE PAZ." AFTER THESE WORDS

THERE ARE SOME ILLEGIBLE INITIALS.

2.

FILE: DEFER. EZ IMPDET.

SECRET

NW 65924 Docld:32108042 Page 6

+1201-289248

---

