# DOCID-32405504

## Page 1

104-10164-10191

1191%

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

INSTRUCTION,

PRIOR TO FILING

1.

Fill in Sect. 2. on back. Detach back flap

and forward

to RID

2. Destroy front cover sheet, unless it records

signitican: action taken or commenis sequir-

ing freservation.

FROM:

RID/AN

_10: ACTION PRANCH

document to RID,%.N.

PROFER FILE NO.

TO: ALl ADDRESSEES

FILL IN SECTION i ON BACK. IF ADPROPRIATE

COMMENTS

TO

WH/C/ES

HOO"

DATE

Sept 66

RL

OFFICENS

INITIALS

Heleased under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection get of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

65987 Date: 10-28-2021

walterlos i Sept ble Rest own/pers

ups/catte

І берів6

Bernard 1. Barker

cort Pers

8 SEP 1966

00pg dilachod

S/WH/SS

tood

Tr.

- NG

MIn/!!

L

NW 65987

Đocld:32405504-Pagesiru.e

4.HD02 1108201-256682

A suad 1M26 Aug 6fa

UPGA 29823

---

## Page 2

104-10164-10191

то

сота

DISPATCH

Chief, Nestorn Hemisphere Division

OUISSIFNATION

STEREI

PROCESSING

AETICM

ПО КАДЕІТИ КОСТАО

CRET QUALIFIED

HEADQUANTLRS DESI

CAY MOGE INDEXIAO

ABSTRACT

ASROTTUM

eirk

ENO

Chief of Station, JMWAVE

SUBETTYPIC/Oporational

D Termination of dUCLATTERLI

ACTION REQUIREO. REFERENCES

Action Required: FYI

References:

A. UFGT-17034

8 August 1966

B. DIRECTOR 27199, 11 August 1966

1.

12 August 1966 at which time he signed a termination Secrecy Oath

and a Quitclaim, copies of which are being furwarded under separate

cover enclosure.

He was, as authorized by Headquarters In Reference

B,.

paid a termination bonus amounting to three months net salary as

well as the cost of a single round-trip air fare between Miami and

Chicago.

The not amount paid AMCLATTER/1 in cash was $1453.17,

although the total cost to JMWAVE of the termination was $1656.87,

Including Fedoral Income Tax and T'ICA deduction.

He also was iggued

а. "W-2"

statemont showing his total cover company earnings for 1966

Including the bonus of three months salary, but not the cost of the

alt fare whioh amountod to $156.87.

The termination of AMCLATTER/1 was carriod out in an amicable

nanner.

He seemed plaased with our offorts in helping him grr. the

Job in Chicago au well as ¿he bonus payment.

He requested, howover,

that 1t bo mado a matter of record that ho

would drop ovorything in

Chicago and rojoin WOFACT at a momont'g notico in any capacity or

unlary loval, 11 his morvicer should evor bo requirod again.

Ho also

salmod the quention of his oltizonship, oriticizlng both LNERGO and

WNGOLD for their sallure to help him.

He was told, au ho has boon

told on provious occasions in the pant, that we could do nothing to

nolp nim on thia matter, and that any complainto botwoon himsoli and

othor agonalos had to ba handlod by nim alono.

He accopted thin

conseron erroofully, stating that we had trontod him sairly and he

LEE nO complEInt agaLcE HOrACT.

Attachmentai

• • Boorody Vach & BuLbUlAIm,

" buttor us Appraon.son, uBo

no: = 111/0, 0/Atto

.. 09 Wi.....

201-251682

CARL TYPED

GAIE LYRGNYMNIM

NUA% & 1908

TREATEN STAGE DID IMETE

CRASSURAIM

L

NW 65987 Docld:32405504 Page 2

---

## Page 3

104-10164-10191

-....WÜATION OF

CISPATCH.

1701-25425

AVCLATTER/1 departed the biani area for Chicago on

13 August where he will undergo a four week training period with

the Rauland Corporation, a subsidiary of the onl'" Radio Corporation.

The Rauland Corporation, which manufactures color I tubes, employs

a large number of Cubans, and is in the process of hiring

employees from among the

Cuban refugees in Miami.

ASCLATTER/1, with

our guidance and assistance,

ient a letter of application to the

Personnel Director of the Zenith Radio Corporation providing back-

ground data on himself.

A copy of the letter is boing forwarded

under separate cover enclosure for Headquariers' files.

quently was interviewed in Miami by company porsonnel officials who

visited Miami in late July, and was hired in a supervisory position

which will involve his working in a liaison capacity between manage-

ment and the Cuban work force.

He was promised a salary of approxi-

mately $180 a week per 60-hour work week, plus reimbursement for the

expenses of moving his family and household effects from Miami to

He has expressed his indebtedness to us for helping him

obtain the position,

and is eager to make good

since he believes

that we were instrumental in his getting the job.

4.

As explained in Reference A, AMCLATTER/l's contract was not

renewed in April 1966 because plans were undorway at that time to

terminate him.

His performance for the past soveral months has been

practically nil, not because he has not been onger for work,

mainly due to the fact that he is not suited for what has to be done.

He started working for JMWAVE in April 1960 as ^ Principal Agent,

during the period preceding the Bay of Pigs he handled a number

political action agents and spotted and developod several candidates

for recruitment.

Since much of this activity was more overt than

covert, he was thoroughly blown as a WOFACT asset, and eventually

becane known in the area as a sort of WOFACT spokesman, a role which

he enjoyed and encouraged.

As times changed and the Station began

concentrating on more covert activitios, AMCLATTER/1 became something

of a security problem, since any statements or opiniong expressed by

him concerning various individuals or exile groupg were other mig

takon for "official leaks" or "policy".

AMCLATTER/1'a strong polnia have been his dedication and

onthunlaam for his work.

boon somewhat of a problem

in that he is a "heavy handod" operator who trion to improse hie con-

tacts with hla Importanco,

theraby committing a number of Indiscre-

tIons. A good examplo of this can be found in hia performance dur lng

tho recont olootion of officory in the 2000 Brigado.

AMCLATTER/1

had a number of contaote in the Brigado and was instructed to monitor,

without mpootloally asking questions, the pro-oloation notivitrog of

tho arigade through him contacty.

Instond of monitoring the aviirlo

thon of him contadta however,

ho boron hammoring away at them,.

Instructing thom to work agalnet certain candidates.

Thly gave "ho

Imprecalon

that oract was attomptlar to cia the oleotions through

AMCLATTER1:

Thia Immodiatoly came to the

Station'e attantion,

nomo of thoge contadts wore working

tor suwAve and complained through

thOlS 0A8O OIlOOrS thAt AMCLATTENI wAN tHrOWINK heN woloNt around

and alving the imprommon that he was cunning the alectlon

I for MOrACT.

An a ramult, AMCLATTEN/!

man raprimandod and cold a nocond timo that

HES WON tO THE WHAT HE HANG

the elmetlone und not to

10. AHMAn

ala concreta and "enosed" chom out tor nuttins

nin nuporlera, Thay nyman repented him

inatesoted met to dod thom know whot had davalowed.

PAliMonD de AMCLATTEN/I If MURE IN ANAN

anneolentlong and

wAN doing,

ans the took golds 1n.

AlE AAMINIA

that no was ongod donlly do do somalllia,

and Indlanted that he

702 w

VOR PMOVIANO UNITION

IHAT

(8)

SOMPIANNE

NW 65987 • Docld:32405504 Page 3

---

## Page 4

104-10164-10191

LUITIINNUATION OF

DISPATCH •

1 1FGA-25623

him.

Perhaps he was right since it became obvious in the past

several months

that he had little aptitude for debriefing refuses

or handling contacts.

In any ovent,

we felt that in all fairness

to. AMCLATTER,

that he should be terminated at the first suitable

opportunity and in a manner that would be helpful and beneficial

to him.

It was also preferable to get him settled outside the

JMiAVE area.

He himself realized that he was getting older, and

that there was little opportunity for him in the type of work that

he was doing for JMWAVE.

The job that he has obtained in Chicago

represents a leal break

for him as well as a considerable increase

in salary. We feel he deserves this break and hope he performs

well.

7.

There were no major security violations on AMCLATTER/l'S

part.

His home address did appear on a PBRUMEN intelligence service

censorship list which possibly contained the names and/or addresses

of alleged PBRUMEN intelligeuce agents in WOLADY, but the valiaity

of the list was never fully confirmed and he was SGSWIRLED on this

matter in April 1964 with overall favorable results.

Because of his

six year association with JMWAVE, he has been exposed to a number of

case officers;

some of whom he knows by true name, and whuse identi-

tles are listed in Paragraph 3 of his PRQ Part II. Thay can be

obtained from there if necessary.

8.

AMCLATTER/1 completed a six weeks basic tradecraft course

in New

York City In September 1964.

He has had no other formal

WOFACT training.

He had no logistical material assigned to him at

the time of his

termination.

Chit, P Menahes

Blok

REVIEWED!

WAr.

Special Guntraalling Officor

L

NW 65987

22*090

Docld:32405504 Page 4

VON PAUVIOUS BBIPIOM.

COMTIMURD

---

## Page 5

104-10164-10191

REGRES

(Then Filled In)

USC ::ttachment l to

UFGA-25825

TERMINATION SECRECY OATH

Bernard L. BATER

association with the Organization.

she bean ta ton, are ton the rel pen tar, a on th not gone mich

concerns the present and future socurity of our country. I am aware that the

unauthorized disclosure of such information is prohibited by the espionage laws

of our government which specifically requires the protection of intelligence

sources and methods from unauthorized disclosure. Accordingly, I SOLEMNLY SWEAR,

WITHOUT MENTAL RESERVATION OR PURPOSE OF EVASION, AND IN THE ABSENCE OF DURESS,

AS FOLLOWS:

1. I will never divulge, publish, or reveal by writing, word, conduct, or other-

wise, any information relating to the national defense and security and partic-

ularly information of this nature relating to intelligence sources, methods,

personnel, fiscal data, or security measures to anyone. Including, but not limited

to, any future governmental or private employer, private citizen,

or government

employee or official without the express written consent of the Chier of the

authorized reprecentative.

1. .l

2.

I have been invited to submit in writing any monetary claime I may have

against the Organization of our government which may in any way necessitate the

disclosure of information described herein. I have been advised that any such

alalma u111 receive full legal conoideration.

In the evant, however, that. I am

not astlofied with the declalone of the Orennization concerning any present or

future ulaime I may submit, I will not take aiy other action to obtain datiofao

Elon vithout prior uritten notice to the organtration, and then only in accordance

with auch logal and security alvice an the Orcanization will promptly furnion me.

3. I do rui have any documento or materialn in my rosenesion, alaegified or una

olnualfled, which are the property of, air in custodial reuponalbility of the

orgarination, havine come into my pondession se a ranult of my dutted with the

Orkülilantin oi otherulae.

4, purine my exlt procenary and durine my perlud of amployment ulth the organ.

leation I have bnen alven an opportuntes to tauore all information about the

Orenniention, sto parmonel, and lin uterationa uhlet 1 enhalder ahould recedro

Hence, I rm list nuns of any Informatlon which lt lo my

Jury, so the melina! Interont, to Alecion to the Greatention, nor am I neAre

of any vlolntlona or branchan

st necurlty willl l hare not orrlalally reportad,

axcepo an not corth on dha raverao olde of eula aloes or on other attadimenta

..:

!

WHITAL IN HENA 29829

1. 80 lor

211-2514982

i idi

NW 65987 Docld:32405504 Page 5

---

## Page 6

104-10164-10191

-SEGREL

f"'on filled la)

5. I have been advised that, in the event I am called upon by the properly con-

stituted authorities to testify or provide

• I am aware of the

to by me under this oath may subject lie to prosecution under the terms of these

laws, and that violation of other portions of this oath are subject to appropriate

action, including such dissemination of the violation as the circumstances war-

rant.

I have read and understand the contents of this oath and voluntarily affix my

signature heret; with the full knowledge that this oath was executed for the

mutual benefit of myself and our governrent, and that it will be retained in the

files of the Organization for its futur? use or for reference by me at any time

In the future that I may be requested or ordered to testify or disclose any of

the matters included within the scope of this oath.

8:

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have set my hand and seal this.

-

- 19.09

12th

;.::

Witrensed by ne thia-

•at-

13 c

__day of_

7 trida

Bernast I Baller

81gnature

August ,,66

_day of

-(BEAL)

!:?

that to Gott

Chise R hendrich (8)

Bignature

!?!

NW 65987 Docld:32405504 Page 6

---

## Page 7

104-10164-10191

-SECRET

19 AUG 1966 .

MEMORANDUM FOR:

Chief, Contract Personnel Division

SUBJECT

Spencer 0. TERTELING, Contract Amendment

It is requested that the contract as amended for Spencet

0. TERTELING,

Independent contractor,

which expired 4 April 1966,

e extended through 31 July 1966, and that also effective 31

July 1966 1t 1s to be terminated.

Concurtent with the termination it 1s requested that the

contract be amended to provide for a terminal payment of $1,657.

which consists of:

0o

Terminal bonua of 31,500. in recognition of

TERTELING's lengthy

seIvice

To the Agency ach pe dod sty of he nesse.

bo

The cost of one round trlp els fare in the amount

of $157.

ho WH Divlason concure in the requeste llated above li

vLow of IE:TILINe's tonure of sorvice and callbro or percormance.

S Lean

WIng V. B500

Chles

Modtern Homlaphase DiV ALon

• APPROVEDI

*Approved an an artonalon id conernes through si july 19661 a6 notleo

of expiralder and no an amandment auchurlaine the terminal payment

THAT SECHET

20102916138

NW 65987 Docld:32405504 Page 7

---

## Page 8

104-10164-10191

GENERAL RELEASE

Know All Non By Those Presents, that Bernand K

for and in consideration of the medical care and treatment and other

consideration provided me by reason of my injury sufferod on

at

NA

_do remise, release, arquit, satisty, and

, forever discharge the said

_ ox an from all,

and all manner of action and actions, cause and causes of action, suit,

debts, dues, sums of money, accounts, reckolings, bords, billa,

spoclalttles, covenants, contracts, controversies, agreoments, promises,

variances, trespasses, damages, judgments, executions, olaims and demands

whatsoever, In law or in equity, which against

over had, now has or which his heirs, executors or adminis-

trators, hereafter can, shall or may have; for, upon or by reason of

any matter, cause or thing whatsoever, from the beginning of the world to

; the day of the dato of these presente:

3 horaby noknomlodgo that I have completoly recovered irom the

above nald injurion and haVe no after ALLOOt ISON MALd INJUrION of any

"hand or natura whatsoover.

In tienose thereos, I have herounto sot my hand and nons on the

lathday offugues, in the your of our lord one thoumand nine hundiod

and Birty air.

Brucel Firen

8sBaed, Bonded and Doldrerod In our Promendel

Chule R Bunded (c)

L

NW 65987 Docld:32405504 Page 8

---

## Page 9

104-10164-10191

SECREY

AMCLATTER

10 AUG 1966

MEMORANDUM FOR:

SUBJECT:

Chief, Western !lemisphere Division

Spencer O. Terteling - Contract Agent

Recominendation for Extension and

Amendm'nt of Contract

the payment of a

$1,500.00, plus $656.87 to cover & round trip plane fare.

2.

Subject has been working for JWAVE in

Political Action since 4 April 1960.

Prior to that dato

he worked for tho Havana Station from mid-1959 until hig

evacuation and arrival in the United States on 18 January

In vow of the longth of loyal service that

Subject has rondered in tho last six yours and the

nodesty of his salary/incomo during this poriod, wH/Cuba

strongly recommends approval of JuWAVE's proposal.

thomas &

Flores

Chias, WH'Cubi

Wellin

NW 65987 Docld:32405504 Page 9

---

