# DOCID-32418584

## Page 1

104-10186-10048

Released und

the John F.

Cennedy

Assassination

Records

Collection Act ol

992 [44 USC

21Ur Notel.

ase#iNwy

:65987 Date:

10-29.2021

RETUMN TO CIA

Backaround Use Only.

Đe Net h

atoduce

DISPATCH-

ASSA SAIN

SECRET

Chist of Station, Udird 27, 15.2

Cutes of Starton.

seputy Chief, Mi for Cuba

Cuban Gencrat Directorate

Oporational/TYPIC/ANNUG

for Intolligenee (Des)

Accountant, Cabana one

Actinities furnished bfa

Intelligence officer

Give copios:

01:

abroad to out

Anerican Diplon

ovor a period of fcars,

hơn te has

a1 provided

conccrntug

the activities of the Cubar

CUtS) whịch

procent a threat to the free

snoral and to latti

America in particular. Atta

teh are threo

copica la. English and three coptos

Ia Spanish o a summary of

the infon ation provided by a detected Cubin inciligence Survice

stas outcase

The report concerns not alone espionage atlvltics

of the curs

atrocted against latin Americau countries but also

querrilla vartare activities sponsored by ile Cistro Government

which are intended to unseat the existing Hovermonts of latin

America.

it is suggested. that either thufcos ar/Dos,] 1r

providing

the material to the Chies of Seated, explain

that the source of the inforration was respinsible for the conduct

•of espionage and guggrilla varfare in El Salvador, in which

countiy tho Chief of abbar has a particular interest because of

Interesy ou he vices of following incortation also may bo ol

his previous service.

During the time that the defected CUIS officer

as a country desk officer

for the CUIS, he took advantage

every opportunity to hare coffed in the offices of his

colleagues responsible for other countrics. "hen it became

necessary for them to leave their offices he seized the

In addition he brought with him a

number of documents fron his own files concernin& operations

in El Salvador.

CUTES REFERENCE TO

INSPATC: SYMBOI A NO MUMABER

2732195

3 KP 1955

17-6-10174

PODS FILE MIMASER

19/6/102.1

- WH/C/SP

1

1

- NE/5

- WH /ESEC

1 - RID Files

SECRET

OFFICE

-Kin

WH'C SP

OPtICER

E'5

NH/2

126ki

WH/1

MITFT TO

WH/C-1:0

91

EFFILE SING

id'*

C WE

ExI.

5610

MN" 53 USE PREVIOUEEDITION

NW 65987 Docld:32418584-Page 1

DISPATCH

---

## Page 2

104-10186-10048

CLASSI

ICHiIOM

•CUNTINUATIONO%

DISPATCH

ESMusis

d."

To intormation

aroutded by thr source

1n debrictings bave buc

the data with those hi

reliable channels.

C.

Information:

The chat does not hao

provided by the

acc ratc of conparta

i throush othor

the full extent of the

received fron

at the

affected

and has.encouraged cach country

chantrtos

measures to dolend is espinet Cuban

subversion

arainst its.

are plotting

St TE

It 1s the hope of

Renat the

govcranents will treat tho infor

Let in Americon diptonats to whom the Chick of

tay

that

alet the intorration will use due care in for arding it to

ther own countries.

At the sanu tleer it is roped that the

latin Averteen

deplorats kill urge

their respective povere-

ant that,

fralizing the

threat posed by Cuba, they will take such actirn as

1s

appropriate in their

oin spheros of influrrice tr

emphasize

the threat that Cuba represents to the free world.

The attached report was prepared with the intention

of having it prescnted

in the Orianization of American States

but this proposal has been abandoned b'cause of objections

raised by the Government of Mrxico.

Nonetheless, the Exican

sions betweenl

UrSi Gart

the Chiefs

English version for his ready referenco.

If ine wishes to rake

copies available to à Latin American diplomat for passage to his

own country, Headquarters cicarance should be obtained befire

сорісь ar

furnishud.

This is because llcadquarters is end-avoring

tö make appropriate arrangerents for passage of the paper through

other channels.

It is believed, therofore, that the most

appropriate use of the natcrial

would be as bact.ruind for

discussion with individual representatives of latin Arcrican

countries.

I wever, there is no objoction to its being us d as

a basis for trilt cuments or reports to their own overnn nts.

1a Er 2. 1. F'adquarters: 1g interested in any coarints that Chief

sonay make concernint

the naterial itself or concern.uy

the

reaction of thost individuals with whon he discusses it.

Distribution: 27,10%

CoS, Hadrid w/atts

2 - COS, SHAVE w/o atto

Attachments: ANUG reports

CLASBIFICATION

SECRET

PAGENO.

CONTINUIO

NW 65987 Docld:32418584 Page 2

---

