# DOCID-32169186

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

11/18/20

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10169-10005

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 105-82555-879

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

LEG, MX

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note]. Case#:NW

65994 Diate: 11-01-2021

DATE: 11/30/1963

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

LHO, POST-RP, OPINION

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 12/10/1997

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS :

NW 65994 Docid:32169186 Page 1

---

## Page 2

4-3 {Rev. 4-17-631

„CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

IN THIS DOCUMENTS T

AIRGRAM

XX CABLEGRAM

O RADIO

TELETYPE

Tolson -

Belmont

Mohr -

Casper.

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans

Gale -

nosen.-

Sullivan

"Tavel

Trotter -

Tele. Room

Holmes

_Gandy =

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINEU

NNCLASSIFIED

MERATNTS

9803 madgel

3/35/93

Classified by

Declassily on.

28-83%

Confi

VERY URGENT

11-30-63

TO DIRECTOR

FROM LEGAT MEXICO CITY

NO. 196

clAssi

too.

BUFILE 105-82555

LEE HARVEY

OSWALD; IS-R.

mouseh take 100110002 go

RE TELEPHONE CONVERSATION WITH ASSISTANT DIRECTOR W. C.

SULLIVAN TODAY.!' FOLLOWING

IS IN CONFIRMATION. 2A

(WE) EWINSTON

SCOTT, HEAD

OF CIA OFFICE HERE, REPORTED THIS

MORNING THATELUIS

EVERRIA, ACTING MINISTER OF GOBERNACION,

HAD ADVISED THAT!

LBERIQ ALVARADO/UGARTE HAD SIGNED STATEMENT

IN WHICH HE ADMITTED HE

HAD NEVER SEEN OSWALD HERE IN CUBAN

CONSULATE ON SEPTEMBER 18 OR ON ANY OTHER DATE AND THAT HE

HAD NEVER SEEN ANY MONEY PAID TO OSWALD OR ANYONE ELSE IN CUBAN

• CONSULATE. HE ALSO ADMITTED THAT HIS STATEMENT TO EFFECT HE

HAD CALLED OUR EMBASSY SEVERAL TIMES IN UNSUCCESSFUL EFFORTS TO

REPORT INFORMATION RE OSWALD WAS FABRICATION AND THAT SUCH CALLS

NEVER MADE.

8(4)

ALLEGED MOTIVE BEHIND ALVARADO'S STORY WAS THAT HE INTENSEL

DISLIKES CASTRO AND HOPED TO PROVOKE UNITED STATES INTO THROWING

CASTRO OUT OF CUBA. NO INFORMATION AVAILABLE TO INDICATE THAT

NICARAGUAN GOVERNMENT WAS BEHIND ALVARADO'S FABRICATED STORY. *(XU

SCOTT ADVISED THAT RÉPRESENTATIVE OF NICARAGUAN INTELLIGENCE

SERVICE, [CAPTAIN WHEELOCK, DID NOT ACTUALLY PARTICIPATE IN

INTERROGATION OF ALVARADO BUT WAS PRESENT IN ADJOINING ROOM ANTE(L

2040

REG- 14

EXEMPT FROM

DAM

81 7 "

7/04/77 her

DECLASSIFICATION INDEE

2204444879

66DEC 371963

32*S A 12208

22 DEC26 1963 •

If the intelligence contained in the--abd

lated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

paraphrased in order to protect the Bur

NW 65994 Docld:32169186 Page 2

---

## Page 3

1-3 (Rev. 4-17-63)

$3:8

DECOBERCOPY

XX CABLEGRAN

D RADIO

Toison

Belmont

Mohr

Casper -

Callahan

Conrad.

DeLoach

Evans -

Gale

Rosen -

Sullivan

Tavel -

Trotter -

Tele. Room

Holmes -

Gandy =

J AIRGRAM

TELETYPE

PAGE TWO FROM LEGAT MEXICO CITY

NO. 196

CONSULTED BY MEXICANS. SCOTT SAID HEELOOK TOLD HIM HE IS

CONVINCED ALVARADO'S STORY WAS FABRICATION E(U)

ENTIRE MATTER OF ALVARADO'S ADMISSION TO FABRICATION WAS

FULLY DISCUSSED WITH AMBASSADOR MANN IN LENGTHY SESSION. HE

ACCEPTS FACT THAT STORY WAS FABRICATION BUT CONTINUES TO FEEL

CASTRO MAY HAVE BEEN BEHIND KENNEDY ASSASSINATION. THIS OPINION

IN PART BASED ON TWO PHONE CALLS WHICH OCCURRED BETWEEN PRESIDENT

DORTICOS OF CUBA AND CUBAN AMBASSADOR HERE ON NOVEMBER 26 LAST

IN WHICH DORTICOS REPEATEDLY QUESTIONED AMBASSADOR WITH REGARD

TO WHETHER SILVIA DURAN HAD BEEN INTERROGATED ABOUT MONEY WHEN

SHE WAS ARRESTED BY MEXICAN AUTHORITIES NOVEMBER 23 LAST.JX(u)

AMBASSADOR MANN WAS MOST EFFUSIVE IN HIS COMMENTS CONCERNING

DIRECTOR'S COOPERATION IN HAVING SENT KEENAN HERE AND REQUESTED

THAT KEENAN CONVEY PERSONALLY HIS APPRECIATION TO DIRECTOR. HE

STATED HE FEELS THAT WITH ALVARADO'S ADMISSION OF FABRICATION

THERE WOULD APPEAR TO BE NO REASON FOR KEENAN TO REMAIN HERE

ANY LONGER. KEENAN HAS RESERVATIONS TO DEPART MEXICO CITY AT

11 PM TODAY ON EASTERN FLIGHT 304 WHICH IS SCHEDULED TO ARRIVE

AT DULLES AIRPORT IN WASHINGTON AT 6 AM TOMORROW. *(U)

CLARK D. ANDERSON

RECEIVED:

9:52 PM

EFH

CC-MR. ROSEN

3RD CC: MR. BRENNAN

08

If the intelligence contained in the aboue messa

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographie

LiCE

6s 30 11 36 6X422

outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

NW 65994 Docld:32169186 Page 3

---

