# DOCID-32346028

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER: 104-10061-10218

RECORD SERIES

JEK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

: 80T01357A

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM

: WITHHELD

TO

TITLE

DATE

ISCA REQUEST

01/20/1978

PAGES

SUBJECTS

: HSCA REQUEST

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER

RESTRICTIONS : 1A 1B

CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

COMMENTS : JFK9 : F64: 1993.07.12.12:22:49:400530 : WITH ROUTING

2-PAGE MEMO DUP OF 104-10061-10325, ARRB

APPROVED 1/30/97.

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note]. Case#:Nw

65924 Date: 10-21-2021

IRI - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10061-10218

NW 65924 Docld:32346028 Page 1

---

## Page 2

SE

2 WILL CHECK CLASS

ATION TOP AN

IDENTIAL

ГТОМ

SECRET

OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP

TO

NAME AND ADDRESS

C/ PRG

DATE

INITIALS

DOJAN DICA

2

DC/CCS

3

C/CCS

20 JAN 15TS

5

Rusty - PR D

6

ACTION

APPROVAL

COMMENT

CONCURRENCE

DIRECT REPLY

DISPATCH

FILE

INFORMATION

PREPARE REPLY

RECOMMENDATION

RETURN

SIGNATURE

Remarks:

1. At an in-house working group meeting on the HSCA

request held in the ULC offices at 2 PM on 20 Jan,

learned that the DCI has authorized a Memo of Under

standing between CIA and the HSCA Staff, represented

ma testa

nomber.

Blakey, in which CiA has agreed to per-

the

Staff unlimited access to ClA files in this

in-i

vestigation.

For their part, the HSCA has agreed to

take no documents or notes from the building, and will

write their report in the building and submit it tot

review and censorship prior to taking it from the bidg. kindn

2. Un the basis of the above I agreed, on behalf of

CCS, to permit an appropriately cleared member of the

HSCA Staff to review the S Elles listed, herEs.

(OVER)

FOLD HERE TO RETURN TO SENDER

FROM: NAME. ADDRESS AND PHONE NO.

DATE

20 Jan 78

SECRET

UNCLASSIFIED

FORMO. 237 Use previous editions

CONFIDENTIAL

#USGRO: 1976-- 202-953

(40)

No prop insert

# 6292

NW 65924 Docld:32346028 Page 2

---

## Page 3

I gave a copy of the attached memo to ivorbert

Shepanek, acting for SA/DU/0, who accepted it with

this

understanding.

& NW 65924 Docld:32346028 Page 3

---

## Page 4

20 January 1978

MEMORANDUM FOR: SA/DO/O

FROM:

M. L. Latta

Plans and Review Group

Central Cover Staff

SUBJECT:

House Select Committee on

Assassinations (HCSA) Request

REFERENCES: A. Memo for SA/DO/O fI OLC (OLC 77-5685/4),

atd 28 Dec 77, Same Subj

B. Letter for OLC fr Chief Counsel/Director

of HCSA, dta 22 Dec 77

1. This memorandum is in response to the request

in paragraph 4 of Reference A. CCS files contain

information on five of the ll individuals identified

in Reference B

as follows:

a.

Alias Dan Carswell (True Name David L.

Christ) -- Approximately 30 documents, virtually

all of which concern the establishment, maintenance

and

use of cover for subject during his Agency

career as a Staff Employee from 1956-70.

b. Louis Posada -- CCS maintains a covert tax

file on Subject containing 58 documents covering

his employment as an Independent Contraçtor from

1968-75. Information in this file may be released

only in accordance with the provisions of Section

6103 of the Internal Revenue Code. In the opinion

of CCS, the time frame of these documents would make

them irrelevant to the investigation being conducted

by the HCSA Staff.

C.

Cesario Diosdado -- Approximately 25 documents

on Subject, a Bureau of Customs official who assisted

CIA from 1961-68 on a

reimbursable basis. Virtually

all of the documents concern arrangements made between

CIA and Customs for the use of subject. The Commissioner

of Customs should be contacted prior to release of.

information in this file.

d.

David Attlae Phillips -- 125-150 documents,

virtually all of which concern the establishment,

maintenance and use of cover for subject during his

Agency career as a Staff Employee from 1953-75.

_NW-05924 Docld:37346028-Rage 4

AFAREL

---

## Page 5

SECRET

e. Lucien Conein -- 100-125 documents,

virtually all of which concern the establishment,

maintenance and use of cover for subject during his•

career with the Agency as a military detailee and

Career Agent from 1954-68.

2. CCS files on the individuals listed in paragraphs

la, c, d and e above contain forms, memoranda and personal

data concerning administration of cover exclusively.

In

the opinion of CCS, identification of specific documents

that could be of interest to the HCSA cannot be made

until such time as the HSCA Staff

narrows the focus of its

inquiry.

3. There is no information in CCS files on the other

items listed in Reference B.

Distilles

M. I. batta

DISTRIBUTION:

Adse (2).

HSCA file i0-4hi(w/uHs)

RC 12034: Christ (W'0/QU=)

CTC-2956: Posada Coats)

RC-15749: Diosdado(WO/atta)

RC-2500: Phillips (11'0/AI2)

conein: RC-9321 (L"/ATio)

MUL/PRG chrono

CCS/PRG Chrono via reading board

- 2-

NW 65924 Docld:32346028 Page 5

---

## Page 6

As of

:1o guly

1978

#Documents

on Individuals

92

25S

192978

beasts!

NEWTON

PRISBECK (P)

KImsEy

BAKER

20

60

400

50

1

MILER

WHITE, CHARLES OR DAVIDSON

AMRON IRVING

75

2

4

100

60

50

25

25

25

75

HUNT -WATERGATE

MELENDON

BROWN

MURPHY

LYNCH

MOORE (* 25)

LOGAY

WILCOTT

MOORE, ROBERT T.

TARASOFF, B

4

BETTE BISHOP

3

LA BORDE

9

CAMPISI

3

MORGAN

16/ NOSENKE

5

DE MOHRENSCHILDT

21 CHERNE

50 HARVEY

25 HELMS

25

ANGLETON

25 ROCeA

100 HUNT

30 CARSWELL

58

POSADA

25

DIOSDADA

125-150 PHILLIPS

100-125

CONÉIN

Agnos 1854y on 38

persons

documents

24 COBB

#Documents

on Companies/ Organizations

150 COLLINS RADIO

2. PERMINDEX

100 CHERNE'S CORD *

12 INING RESCUE

100-150 WACKENHUT

Apprig

414.

vote

dreaments

*RESEARCH

NSTITUT

FAMERIC

Requests on 437 names Mindindunlo

NW 65924 Docld:32346028 Page 6

---

