# DOCID-32404135

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD

NUMBER

:

104-10331-10005

RECORD

SERIES

:

JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

PROJFILES-CORRESPONDENCE

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM : MCDONALD. CHIEE, CIA HISTORY STAFF

TO :

DD/CONGRESS. AFFAIRS

TITLE

: MEMO: CSI ACCESS TO ALL RECORDS RELEVANT TO HSCA

INVESTIGATION, 1976-1979

DATE

PAGES

04/12/1992

2

SUBJECTS :

JFK ASSASSINATION

HSCA RECORDS

DOCUMENT TYPE

: PAPE:

CLASSIFICATION

• ADMINISTRATIVE

RESTRICTIONS : 1A

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

04/23/03

COMMENTS: JFK-M-16 : F1 : 2000.02.07.09:27:29:793054

Heleased under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note]. Case#:NW

55.990 Date: 11-01-2021

[R] - ITEM

IS

RESTRICTED

104-10331-10005

NW 65990 Docld:32404135 Page 1

---

## Page 2

ADMINIS

ITIV

ERNAL UGE ONLY

CSI 92 0201

13 April 1992

MEMORANDUM FOR:

FROM:

SUBJECT:

E. Page Moffett

Deputy Director of Congressional Affairs

J. Kenneth McDonald

Chief, CIA History Staff

Center for the Study of Intelligence Access to

• All Records Relevant to House Select Committee

on Assassinations Investigation, 1976-1979

1.

In his 21 February 1992 speech to the Oklahoma Press

Assocation the DCI announced that he was "transferring

custody of

all documents CIA possesses relating to the assassination of

President Kennedy to the Historical Review Program," which he

assigned to the Center for the Study of Intelligence (CSI) in

the

same speech.

David Gries, the new Director of CSI, has asked

CSI's Historical Review Group to begin work on declassifying the

collection of records that CIA holds as a result of the 1976-1979

investigations by the House Select Committee on Assassinations

(HSCA) of President Kennedy's assassination.

2.

Pursuant to the DCI's directions, we therefore request

approval for all members of CSI (which includes the Director and

his staff, the History Staff, and the Historical Review Group) to

have access to all records that CIA holds relevant to the HSCA

investigation.

We understand that 64 boxes of material have been

specifically designated as related to this investigation.

3.

Upon receiving your approval for CSI access to these

records, the Director, CSI, would like the components noted below

to transfer custody of the following 64 boxes of material related

to the HSCA investigation to CSI, when requested by the Chief,

Historical Review Group, CSI:

Box NoS. 1-34 & 64

Box Nos. 35-36

Box Nos. 37-38

Box No. 39

Box Nos. 40-48

Box Nos. 49-63

Directorate of Operations

Inspector General

Office of the General Counsel

Directorate of Science and

Technology

Office of Security

Office of Congressional Affairs

ADMINISTRAT

INTERNAL, USE ONLY

NW 65990 Docld:32404135 Page 2

---

## Page 3

ADMINISTRATIVE--INTERNAL USE ONE'T

SUBJECT: Center for the Study of Intelligence Access to All

Records Relevant to House Select Committee on

Assassinations Investigation, 1976-1979

4.

We understand that the DO's Information Management Staff

holds the 35 DO-originated boxes,: and that the 29 other boxes are

held together at the Agency Records Center.

4. Kennethrsonal

J. Kenneth McDonald

CC :

D/CSI

C/HRG/CSI

APPROVED:

E. Page Moffit t

Deputy Director of Congressional Affairs

* See attached snemo.

4/21/92

Date

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL LEE QUIE

NW 65990 Docld:32404135 Page 3

---

