# DOCID-32361683

## Page 1

JEK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION

FORM

•——~.

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD

NUMBER: 104-10119-10250

RECORD

SERIES

: JEK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

: 80T01357A

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

: CIA

AGENCY ORIGINATOR

FROM

TO

TITLE

DATE

PAGES

BELITSKIY, BORIS YEFIMOVICH #175.069 - SSD MOSBY, ALINE

#172252

: 01/01/1900

2

SUBJECTS : BELITSKIY, B.Y.

MOSBY, ALINE

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER

CLASSIFICATION

UNCLASSIFIED

RESTRICTIONS : 1A

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 07/21/97

COMMENTS

:JFK43 : F39 : 1997.07.21.17:05:29:450106

Released under the John F. Kennedu

assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:Ny

55924 Date: 10-26-2021

....-.-=..__

[R]

----

- ITEM IS RESTRICTED

-------_---

104-10119-10250

-NW 65924-Đocld:32361683-Page 1

---

## Page 2

ATTACHMONI

"CUNTECT,

SOLITSITY, Borle Yefimovich #195059 - SSD

NOSEY, Al1ne 1/172252

According to several sounces Boris Y. Belitskly is an associate of

Aline Mocoy, whose name appeared in Oswald's address bool. (Page 61 of

the address

book, which 1s on page 22 of the FBI memorendum of 31

Deccmber 1903.

Sho 1s mentioned also In CI/SId's cover memorandur

dated 10 January 1964.)

"According to Joseph Doyle, 5x/2/CE, #56948 SD & S3D, In September

1958, Aline Mosby was in direct contact with Soris Y. Belitskly, a

Russian offielal at the Brusseld World Mir, and "was the center of a

creat deal of activity for (him)". Dojite stated that Eelitskiy, who was

tho Head of the British Division of Radio Moscow, had been an Interpreter

for the Ruscions at the Brussels World Fair. 'He previously had been in

the United States with his father, who was with AMORG in the late 1920°c/

carly: 1930'8. Doyle said that Belltskiy ettended school in New York City

and that the family returned to Russia 1n 1936 or 1937.

Vich further reverence to Mosby, Doyle noted that there was a direct

relatlonchis batween Modby, koch (car. henry. noch,

450001) and Volkort

(Georre Volkoft 1152385, - BSD) - all of whon had been of interest vitr

tolcrenco to Politokly.

Obers thom Mosby knew Included Alcender Dolberts 4165651 - SSD,

to thon the was introduced by Mosioncy. Is Eusaell/ 83853 - SSD, st111

another who was of interest la connection with Belitskly

CI/SIG was advised in late 1958 regerding the above individuals and

Informed that C]/OA was also Interested in then.

According to inforuntion furnished by Fitzgerald Curtis Smith,

1176178 - S30, during a dobriofing in June 1959, Boris Y. Bolitally, whom

Culth Kee In Moscow, was In preat fear of being purged,

"as was his

Pather, o Russian Jew, who had once Ilved in How York."

According to

Salth, Delitokly knew and trusted no U.S, citizens in Moscow otber than

himelf (Snith) end Aline Mosby, UPI cortospondent in Mascow. Smith aaid

Illtckly mot Allne Mocby at the Brussels World Fair in the summer of 1958,

at the some timo ho met smith. Smith sold he subsequently contacted

Selitstly In Moscow 1n December 1958, through NBC Corraspondent Irvine R.

Lavine.

carcled,

NW 65924 Docld:3236

---

## Page 3

Another who knows, or has known, Aline Mosty 1o former Ageney employca

George Winters, 155769. Winters stated during an Interview In Novenber/

December 1960, when discussing Americans in Moscow who lived beyond their

means, that newspaperman Harry Schapiro was a very hoavy loser at poker ~

to the extent that "one got the impression ho was on the Sovlet budget."

Schopiro, he caid, had a Russian wife who was more aggressive than he.

Winters added that newspaperwoman Aline Mosby was in Schapiro's office;

and commented that she

"stuck mostly to the Foreign circult rather than

tho Embassy circult." He said that she bad been in the hospital on several

ocasaions during the previous year, so that "one didn't see too mich of her";

and added that according to f0931p

one hospitallzation was ocassioned by an

abortion.

Another newspaperwoman In Moscow, whom Winters mentioned, was Priscilla

Johnson, HT1589-DL. The has been mentioned in newspaper articles as one wino

recalled having come la contact with lee Harvey Oswald in Moscow, where she

interviewed (or talked) with him. Her name, like Mosby's, was listed 10 his

address book under her last name only.

Mosby wan born on 27 July 1922 In Missoula, Montana; and gradusted

from the University of Montana in 1943.

She was employed by Untted Preas

In Seattle, Wachington, from 1943 to 1945, and was Hollywood Correspondent

for UP from 1945 to 1957. According to the UP Bureau Manager at Los Angeles,

che resignod voluntarily in 1957 and her employment was satisfactory. Ac-

cording to Confidential Informnt R-1, during on Agency Investigation in the

fall of 1958, she was dropped by UP when she was subpoeaned In connection

WIth legal suits against Confidential Magazine, for which she had done re-

write work without the knowledge of UP.

She went to the Brussels World Fair

as a stringer for the North American Newspaper Alliance. She was considered

loyal by her associates during the above perioa; but was described as "the

co-exitience type who associates with Russians" ("plays footsie with the

RuBstano"). No Informant questioned her loyalty.

In Janunry 1960, Mosby reportedly was Introduced on the Dave Garroway

"Today"

', no NBC Nows' Correspondent, but In a State Department dia-

patch of 12 December 1950, which listed "Western Correspondents In Moscow",

the was noned as representing UPI.

According to HCUA records, Mosby did a motion picture critic type

article for the Daily Worker In 1947; wrote an article for the Daily Worker

at Laguna Beach, California, In 1949; and contributed a coluin to the Dally

Worker on 23 November 1956.

According to records of the Civil Service Com-

mission, the Daily Worker of 26 July 1957 and 23 August 1957 carried infor-

mation regarding her.

M. D. Stovens

Hairty

Palmpire la Loade Henny Chapiro, 1902610-6, who (with his wife)

was the

Eubject of an FBI Espionage investigation in 1963.

- NW 65924-Đoeld:32361683-Page 3

---

