# DOCID-32359562

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

--------------------

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER: 104-10113-10273

RECORD

SERIES

:JEK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

: 80T01357A

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM : COTTER, WILLIAM J., CIA

: FILE, CIA

TITLE : LANZ, PEDRO DIAZ SUBPOENA TO APPEAR BEFORE SENATE

INTERNAL SECURITY COMMITTEE

DATE: 07/10/1959

PAGES

: 1

SUBJECTS : DIAZ,

PEDRO

EDWARDS, COL SH

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

RESTRICTIONS

: 1A

CURRENT STATUS

RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 07/24/93

COMMENTS

:JFK41 : F20 : 1993.07.24.11:42:14:150630 /

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 |44 USC 2107 Notel. Case#:Nw

65924 Date: 10-26-2021

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10113-10273

NW 65924 Docld:32359562 Page 1

---

## Page 2

STANDARD FORM NO. 64

Office Memorandum

TO

FIle

FROM

..

, Chief, Alien Affairs Staff

SUBJECT:

LANZ, Pedro Diaz

SEPPFT

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

DATE: 10 July 1959

1. On 9 July 1959, Mr. Herbert D. Nice of the Immigration

and Naturalization Service telephonically advised that the sub-

ject was under a subpoena to appear before the Senate Internal

Security Committee and in the event it was desired by this

Agency to contact the subject, such contact should be made

through the Senate Committee.

This fact was relayed to Mr.

Thomas Flores of the WH Division, and he in turn received a

direct confirmation of this fact from Mr. Herbert D. Nice

telephonically.

2. On this date Mr. Joe Langan of the SSD contacted the

writer and advised that he had been in turn contacted-by Mr.

thomas Flores, who raised the question as to the capability

of the Office of Security, by surveillance or other means, to

ascertain the address of the subject. Mr. Langan had informed

Mr. Flores that although this Office has the capability, in

view of the Congressional interest in this matter, no action

would be taken without an extremely strong justification.

3. Subsequently, the writer was contacted by the Deputy

Chief, Support Branch, on this same point and Mr. Thomas

*Plores was telephonically contacted by the writer. He stated

that, with regard to his conversation with Mr. Langan, he was

merely interested in ascertaining whether or not the Office.

of Security had the capability to surveil the subject and he

did not intend that any further action would be taken in this

regard. He declared that Col. J. C. King, WH Division Chief,

would possibly discuss this matter with the DCI or Col. Edwards

and it was understood by Mr. Flores that the DCI was not happy

with the way General Swing had diverted the subject to the Internal

Security Sub-Committee when, in fact, he was aware of the interest

of the CIA in him.

4. At approximately 10:45 a.M., Col. Edwards was briefed

generally with regard to the situation and mention was made to

him of the fact that he might be contacted by the Chief, WE ?

Division.:::

SESTE

Holler

William J. Cotter

OS/AAS/WJC:es 13 July 59

- Baga

NW 65924 Docld:32359562 Page 2

---

