# DOCID-32289473

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/11/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10201-10249

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-2781-528

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, TP

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

Released under the John F. Kennedy

assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note]. Case#:NW

65994 Diate: 11-01-2021

DATE:

04/18/1962

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

LST, ASSOC, RES, ACT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: - 10/13/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

NW 65994 Docld:32289473 Page 1

13

---

## Page 2

4-41 (Rev. 3-5-62)

DECODED COPY

sipe

I Radio

• Teletype

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr -

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans

Malone

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes -

Gandy

Stelan

10

DEFERRED

TO DIRECTOR

4-18-62

FROM SAC TAMPA

182026

SANTO TRAFFICANTE, JR., AKA. AR. DAILY TELETYPE.

1947

DAVID M. SCHWARTZ, CPA, ADVISED APRIL 17 HE HAS REPRE-

SENTED TRAFFICANTES SINCE APRIL ON TAX MATTERS. IN FIFTYS

HE SAID SANTO MOVED TO CUBA, AND HIS KNOWLEDGE OF SANTO 'S

ACTIVITIES IS NEGLIGIBLE. HE DOES NOT DO ANY BOOKKEEPING

FOR SANTO: HE JUST RECEIVES SUMMARIES AND FILES RETURNS.

HE HAS NEVER SOCIALIZED WITH SUBUECT, BUT DID GO TO HAVANA

TO ATTEND THE MARRIAGE OF SANTO'S DAUGHTER BECAUSE SANTO

CLIENT. HE SAID SANTO RESIDES IN MIAMI AND MAKES INFREQUENT

TRIPS TO TAMPA.

HE RECENTLY OBTAINED AN EXTENSION FOR SUBJECT

FILING OF HIS TAX RETURN.

ROBERT J. JONES, PCI (PROTECT), MANAGER, ROCKY POINT

BEACH MOTEL, ADVISED APRIL 17, LOUIS BO BRADY RETURNED MOTEL.

FRIDAY LAST, APRIL 13, STAYED ONE NIGHT AND LEFT APRIL 14,

DESTINATION OR MODE OF TRAVEL UNKNOWN. SOURCE GATHERS BRADYS

DEAL THAT HE HAD BEEN ARRANGING APPARENTLY CONCERNED A

BUILDING, PLACE NOT MENTIONED, AND THAT APPARENTLY THE DEAL

WAS GOING TO WORK OUT TO BRADYS ADVANTAGE.

RECEIVED:

5:41 PM

REM

92-2781-5222

REC- 19

EX 113

10 APR I. 9 1962

APR 24 1962

If the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

NW 65994 Docld:32289473 Page 2

---

