# DOCID-32398430

## Page 1

Date: 01/25/05

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

- - - - - - - - — = - = = = = = = -

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER

: 104-10106-10172

RECORD

SERIES

: JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

80T01357A

----=-=----

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM

TO

TITLE

T. HUTCHISON, C/PCS/CSS/B&F

DATE

PAGES

: OGC

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD - MEETING WITH PDLADLE AND

BERNARD E. MONCURE

12/07/1977

:

6

SUBJECTS

PDLADLE

NY MORTGAGE

DOCUMENT TYPE

: PAPER

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

RESTRICTIONS

1A

CURRENT STATUS

RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 07/20/93

COMMENTS

JFK38: F13: 1993.07.20.18:43:20:840400

Heleased under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act c

1992 |44 USC 2107 Notel. Case#:NW

65924 Date: 10-26-2021

--

[R]

- ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10106-10172

NW 65924 Docld:32398430 Page 1

---

## Page 2

• UNCLASSIFIED

INTERNAL

ONLY

CONT

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJEGT: (Ostional)

FROM:

Paladle/

T. Hutchison

C/ PES/ CSS/B+7 27-21

TO: (Officor designction, room number, and

EXTENSION

6734

OFFICER'S.

INITIALS.

RECEIVED:

FORWARDED

•NTI AI

SECRET

7 lee 19-72

• 8 dea

1921

COMMENTS (Number oach comment. lo show from whom

so whom.:. Draw a line across column after soch comment.).

030 700

VE

-4

2.

300/06C -25-2/9Đu A

t0 3 8 5.

Parag requests

your assistance in providing

79a2a

the name:

of a mortgagee"

12.22

and legal assistance in NYC

in recording a mortgage

"of

approximately, $170,000. on

property which the Agency has

made loans:

→ GMiB has been

handling

10.л

12.

FORMA

3-02: 1.

610 USE

PREVIOUS

EDITIONS

SECRET

NW 65924 Docld:32398430 Page 2

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 3

C

SECRET

8 December 1977

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECTE

Meeting With PDLADLE and-Bernard El Marreure -

December 1977

1. Subject meeting was held in New York City at

the home of MONCURE on 7 December 1977, and attended

by PDLADLE, MONCURE, Mike Sednaoui, Vascia Gmirkin and

Terrell Hutchison.

2. Financially, there were the following objectives:

a. To apprise PDLADLE that no more loans could

be made.

b. To convince POLADLE that the New York City

rental property should be retained.

.. •

c. To obtain a deed of trust on the property.

3. MONCURE began the discussions with an outline to

PDLADLE of the present administration's position on grant-

ing additional loans, i.e., that no more loans could be

made.

He briefly touched on the subject of retaining

the New York City property. POLADLE repeated his previ-

ously stated position that the property be sold.

SECRET EZ IMPDET CL BY 061922

NW 65924 Docld:32398430 Page 3

---

## Page 4

SECRET

4. After lengthy discussion of PLADLE's financial

position and the financial demands of his wife, we

pre-

sented PDLADLE with "financial position" figures reflecting

his general income of four (4) years ago compared with 1977

Without going into details of the discussions, the follow-

ing actions were agreed on by PDLADLE:

a. Except for one further loan of approximately

$10,000 to pay off a bank mortgage on the

New York City property, no more loans will

be made by the Agency.: Note: It is necess-

ary that we advance this payment in order to

obtain

a first trust on the property.

b. Concurrent with the advance of about $10,000

noted above, POLADLE will execute a Deed of

Trust to the Agency (mortgagee to be determined)

for

the present loan balance of $158,350, plus

the amount required to pay off the bank (approxi-

mately $10;000). The Agency mortgage would then

be approximately $168,000. This action was

deemed prudent because PDLADLE, having signed

only promissory notes on the loans, could in

fact sell the property at any time without

making any payments to the Agency:

SECRET

- 2 -

NW 65924 Docld:32398430 Page 4

---

## Page 5

IC. SECRET

c.. To relieve any adamantine attitude by

PDLADLE when he was advised to the no

more loan

policy, PDLADLE was apprised

that we recognize that his "retainer" has

not been increased for several years, and

to keep abreast with inflation, we proposed

increasing this by $4,800 per year, i.e.,

from $19,200 to $24,000. This step, aside

from

"softening up" LADLE to "no more loans"

and: a first trust on the property, was also

designed to place him in a rather firm financial

position in hopes of "solving" his financial pro-

blems once and for all. LADLE was, of courses

pleased with this increase; and maybe being a

little sharper financially than we have given

him credit for, wanted to know if this 1978

increase of $4,800 could in fact be paid in

a lump sum in January. Fearful that he would

give this money to his wife for her impending

trip to Spain, he was advised that we could

arrange this payment providing it was only

used to liquidate the Ed Card loan on the farm.

SECRET

- 3 -

NW 65924 Docld:32398430 Page 5

---

## Page 6

SECRET

This payment along with about $3, 000 which

MONCURE has in the PDLADLE bank account would

just about Liquidate the Ed Card loan

d. In eliminating the bank loan on the

New York City property and the Ed Card loan

on the

farm, LADLE's only recurring monthly

obligations, will be the taxes on his pro-

perties and the $1,000 to his wife.

5. MONCURE pointed out that

the recording fee on

a mortgage is $1.25/$100; therefore, the fee on a $170.00

would be about $2,125. Since we are insisting on the

mortgage, the Agency should absorb this charge, as well

as any other nominal charges so related.

6. Herewith a summary of the payments that we should

expect to pay in early 1978:

a. Advance (loan) to

pay off bank loan

About:

$10,000

b. Prepayment of retainer increase - referred

to in para 4.c.

$ 4,800

c. Recording fees for mortgage

$ 2,200

d. LADLE's regular "salary" for

January thru March - 3 x. $1,600

$ 4,800

Total:

$21,800

- 4 - SECRET

NW 65924 Docld:32398430 Page 6

---

## Page 7

IC

SECRET

7. It should be noted that the.

above advance (1oan)

of $10,000 is presently provided for in the 1978 OPACT, which

in fact provides for "loans" of $20,000.

The "salary" increase

of $4,800 can likewise be absorbed from this $20,000.

8. As MONCURE is going into a hospital on 9 December

for an operation and with the holiday season shortly there-

after, it was proposed that we attempt to finalize these

transactions on 1l January 1978. This will give MONCURE

an opporiunity to advise the bank of the intent to pay off

the loan, and to obtain and

record the Ist trust on the pro

perty.

9. .In

recognition that the legal involvement should go

beyond MONCURE, a copy of this memo is being sent to the OGc

for their assistance in providing the name of the "mortgagee"

to be used on

the mortgage, presumably a cleared New York

City legal firm, who could also coordinate with MONCURE on

the preparation and recording of the mortgage.

T. Austrian.

Terrell W. Hutchison

SECRFT

= 5

NW 65924 Docld:32398430 Page 7

---

