# DOCID-32369451

## Page 1

JEK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER

: 104-10143-10220

RECORD

SERIES

: JEK

AGENCY, FILE NUMBER

: 80T01357A

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM : WH/C/SP

TO : CHIEF, WHD FOR CUBA

TITLE

: MEMO: ESPIONOSA ALLEGATIONS.

DATE

: 01/01/1978

PAGES

: 4

SUBJECTS : ALLEGATIONS

ESPINOSA

JEK ASSASSINATION

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS SECRET

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 05/27/04

COMMENTS

: JFK58 : F8: 20040226-1050829

Heleased under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

55924 Date: 10-26:2021

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10143-10220

NW 65924 Docld:32369451 Page 1

---

## Page 2

EXES DR

SECHET

MENCRANDUA FOR: Chier, WHD for Ciba

SUBSACr

: Bapinosa Allegations

1. Sensitivity;

E2)a1049 ox accus

they

present a prominibecause no% their having

been

presented to o tues

in view of matters touching on U.S.

security,

are delicate and could bays untavorable repercussions

il repeated to newsmen by the complainant or his

associates (whose independent, previous threats were

of greater potential embarrassment);

C.

affect the reputations and the security of our

personnel at Madrid and Paris.

2.

Action: In view of the foregoing, the allegations

A.

should be put in proper perspoetive - i.e

ignored because of the potential cabarcassaent

considered in the light of what we already

(Almost all of then are xepetitions of previous

charges and reports, kaown well to both the hadrid

and Paris stations and to leadquartors officers

concerned with the AblASH group, whose members'

reliability, reputations and good faith are question-

able.

TwO

of the charges - about Barle and

"Tota"

and

about AYHIP-1 and CARRILLO - are new.);

B.

should be treated so as to protect us against any

charge of 1a her

to establisa

at the sane

Pet tiennay id attributing

facts bat,

to then more Unportance than thell deserve;

should be

AMLASH grOUP tO

other governments or to news

medis (In

the last

connection recall the implied threat of publishing

ODYKE responsibillty, as reporced previoualy by

NADR-3716, IN 336343);

* ONLY

SLONEY

(203n0G

12

65

NW 65924 Docld:32369451 Page 2

---

## Page 3

• ENDY

2911

--2-

should bo exanined togethar with all the other

availadle roports so that we moy

(1)

claTtiy

our own objectives and wishes with

respect to all the AMLASH goup (and this includes

АминІр);

DEDDODICTION

(2)

Ay, are worth our

time in the

future;

3, including inter-

rogation and-poltzraphing,

thes, when necessary,

terminate those who are

working tos us but are not worthshile:

(4) tighten up our own operational and security

procedures in connection with

the AWLASH grOup.

Preliminary Analysis:

As pointed out in a preliminary

analysis of the AMASd conplex, nade in larch

preparing for travel to Madrid in connection vich the QUAOPS-1

...Theie 1s no convincing evidance that the group is

working either for or against the cogize of fidel CasTro.

Reports on their contacts with us and their discassions

themsalves are at variance.

In 1962 Fidel CASTRO, reportedly

knowing that they were plotting against hia, talked to AHLASA-1

aud seven nambers of his group to enlist their suppoct against

Anibal ESCALANTE Dellunde and the communista in Cuba.

Possibly

they are playing both ends against the middle.

been and are in contact with

the two ends."

comments are keyed to matters raised by ESPINOSA:

A.

(IN 23634) on 6 April 1985, QUSPORI-1 reporting on a neeting

0f the AMIASH group, including AHIP-I mentioned the following

significant points:

(1) KUBARK was criticized for "Fooling asound for

years" without belping and for jeopardizing the operation;

operation teststand

the rey acan scandal outtake dagen

21 Pise seem tosini-

lucaut; and

(3)

MLASH-3 vas in touch with Cuban Intelligence

as established by coded messages which he exhibited.

As reported by PARI- 1532 (IN 82939) on 4 June 1965,

based: on

neetings vita ESPINOSA, the problem seen by Pazis ta-that

S.IRG

17793007

13

65

NW 65924 Docld:32369451 Page 34

---

## Page 4

SYES ONLY

SECRET

"the AbrASH clrcle is side and

each now triund of whom we learn

seems to have Inowledge of the plan."

'problem is a nore sexious and basic obe.

As indicated in

paragrada 3 of the present namorandun,

FidSz CASTRO hingelf

reportedly knew as far back as 1902 that the groug was plotting

agalast him aad, knowing it, enlisted ita aupport.

cannot rule out

the possibility of provocation.

Assassination,

obviously,

1s a dangerous game, not

to the plottars in

3 physical

sense, but to a sponsoring government which may

severa political repercussiona

at home add abroad it lis

involvement is nade known.

In the instant case,

the risks of

oxposure of the ODYOKE hand would appear high,

whether there is

a provocation or not.

Considering the individuals who are

involved directly, their contacts wits KUBARK officers, and their

even more the case

fortunatoly the tenor of his complaiut was that KuBARk bad nos

given adequate support

tolthe plan.orr

The contaces

a PaiD and the natters altecting

the Paris Station. - The "recruitment" of Mauxeen had been the

subject of an exchange of cables Detween Paris and Headquarters

o2 discussions at Headquarters between 1H/C and VE (See

PARI-107] (IN 66557) and DIR-10955).

The annoying thing in

this connection now is that ESPINOSA has talked about it to

ODENYX and ODURGE and the danger that, 11 he is indiscreet,

his story avour this (and the oter mattera) could reach some

cirious newspaperman.

(In this connection, it appeass that the

questionabla decision to put Maureen in touch with the AMlAsH

group was nade without the knowledge of srcckiCoD.)

ESPINOSA

did not report any criticism of the KUBARkers at Paris but it

is evideat that the AMlASH group knows more about them chan

,What is nev and of concern fion EsPiNosa about.

matters in Parla is his story of AUNHIP 1 and JNSYANU-19

dealings.

The questiong raised about Aui1i2-1 are of mutual

also to leadquarters which has been running him and

Madrid which he hag visited often.

(on the occasion of my

previous trip to iladrid on the QuiOPS-i case,

GROvEpY had voiced

his doubto about the whole group and specitically about AWMMID].

and his connection with UNSNAXU-19.) At issue azx: tro basic

the knowledge on the part of UNSNArJ-19 about kubark's

connection with AMHIP-I and the chazge that AwhiP-l has been

defrauding KUBARK in the jewelry transaction 3150 co be kept

la mind is the fact that ODENVY has an offico in Paris which

well night have been informed of the allegations

have been asked for coments - although ODSNVY policy always

has been to stay away from any investigation of other governent

agencies unless

spectrically directed by the attorney General

to investigate.

REPRODUCTION

PRONTED

010gne8

more 14. n

65

NW 65924 Docld:32369451 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Criticiam of the Madrid Station - Criticist oi

the Madrid Stailon by the AbLASH group is not new.

-3 were in Madrid and wanted direct

contact,

but the

Station has

had reservations sbout seeing then.

Station bas

been involvad indirectly

because

of zeporting by ita

about and involvenant of Station targets

and ANWORLD operations (both handled fron Headquarters).

(See MADR-2932 (IN 72256) and MADR-2998

RYBAT) . ):

Beetings anong GUSPORT, QUSWI3T-1, AUNaIP-I and AlASH figures

produced conflicting reports which previously were discussed at

Madrid and at Headquarters.

Insofar aa GROVERY lingell ia

concerned, it sust be kept in niad that be is a nacural targat

no stalker 20a da statep lit had ones wica her.

2otifled BOBARK at Ney York Chat Auuish-2 nad telephoned

ESPINOSA to ask bather he had gucceeded in contacting "the

proper peopla"

• 1.3., responsible KUBARk representatives - and

to request notice

the resulting arrangements.

AXVHIP-1: Our pian callo for nesting bin noxt veek

to obtain 220 intormation

obtain clarification of the

coles played by those

involved with his in

the AMIdS& operation:

ais dealings with UNSNAVU-19 also will be covered.

Following

Shis, an ICTLUTTER examination is planned.

This nay help to

determine whether he has been truthful in his reporting.

Harold E.

Stenson

WH/C/SP

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SIES INCY

SECRETS

15

9003R0s

31G8

65

NW 65924 Docld:32369451 Page 5

---

