# DOCID-32397487

## Page 1

Date: 12/06/00

Page: 1

JEK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER: 104-10433-10170

RECORD SERIES : JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : RUSS HOLMES WORK FILES

DOCUMENT: INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR :

FROM

TO :

TITLE :

CIA

WEISBERG FOIA REQUEST: LIST: HANDWRITTEN/FBI REPORTS

BE REFERRED TO FBI/TWO FBI CABLES ATTACHED

DATE : 00/00/

PAGES

20—

SUBJECTS

: WEISBERG, HAROLD

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER,

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

RESTRICTIONS

CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

OPENING CRITERIA

COMMENTS

TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

POSTPONED IN FULL

12/18/98

JFK-RH19:F10 1998.12.18.09:58:35:903120: NBR

TO

Released under the John F. Kennedy

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NW 65990 Docld:32397487 Page 1

---

## Page 2

NW 65990 Docld:32397487 Page 2

---

## Page 3

A - 88

F8I Repote

1.

Peport

evashingtre, s.0, 230

natirice mobile zati conemitter (1

Waresi Vestrames.

A-89

2..

Report

se fork, 15 gamessy /768

V.

#261 100-154786

Befi++-805-138315

A- 90 3.

Report

Aor Francecco, Imag 1967 (pg.112)

Himonstratenies pretesting Inst e states

724-100-54559

Bufsl 0109-138315

A-91%

Report

toss hasciaco, 15 august 1967(pg.5"

Menonctratemis pretestinig United steter

Inticacato in Vestireo ton frassico

Deccion

7 201-100-54559

Bufal +-105-138315

A-925.

Report

Chicago, 12may 1967 (p9.88) /

Incted statea

interventone in Vectname

7208-100-22719

Buf16-100-138315

88 T6 131

A88 - A124

TRED TO FB!

88-124

NW 65990 Docld:32397487- Page 3

---

## Page 4

A

93

G.

Report

sceau 5.

+201- 100-427159

Bufels-105-138315

etrango, cologie: 1362 (19-811

A94 7,

Report

Chantes, 25 ganucug1988

emmunat enfettrations of saiten

christions Leadeidjonference

ted: 100-5718

Bufele-100-4387248

V

A95 8.

Report

ortante, 12 Gamescay 968

V

700- 100-5718

buf 6-100-4387246

A 96 %

Report Retsact, 22 customber 1967

Inter-Incacity Committer for debote en

Foreign Policy.

760-105-11627

Bufel-62-110039

A 9710.

Repott

sacramente, 2e october 1968 V

assoctrong Picherson

ses file sconstic

A 98.11.

Feport

, Piclace phia, 5 septembers 1968 V

Hisd naterich conference ans Black Parues,

Phila dil plisco, PA: Agent 29-cytomber cytmher1,

3,1968.

so file timberes

NW 65990 Docld:32397487 Page 4

---

## Page 5

A 99.12.. Report

• Lend Pungelen, lapel 1969"

matter

7141- 100-71723

Bufels- 105-186760

Aloo 13.

Report

(pa, 56), Sin Fransico, 26 may 1989

Blade Panther Party- Racial matters-BPP V

744-157-1204

Cafele - 105-165706

A 161 154.

Report

„Tew gala, 20 eugect 1920.

elegy and begin emerned about lectroo

(CALCAN)

760-100-156667

Bufel-105-170160

Report

cited 23 gu.

RADIO PAVANA, Cuta, ENTERNAL SeLiM- Clie

11968, Newfok,

No File

A 163

Bufile: 105-127538 Fldfile AQ 105 - 1014.

A104 17.

Report

lilad 30 gonnan

1969

MERKAN CEMMITTEE FUR DEMOCKHEY & FREEDEPING REFI

pg 32

Hà fio: 105-88068

• A105 18. Report

san Francerco, 10 auguct 1921

Joan chandras Narris security Matter subversive

• 7ed- 100-49859

= Befels- 100-443490

_NW.65990 Docld:32397487 Page 5

---

## Page 6

A10618

A107

20-

Report,

19 Apr 1957, New York

JOHNSON FORREST GROUP

Bufile:

100-397390

F1d:

none

Report, lo Aug 64, Washington

MARTIN

LUTHER KING JR.;

SECURIZY

File: (IS) 100-106670

MATTER - C

A108

21.

Report

dated 12 July 1968, Los Angeles

Progressiue Labor Paity

Bufilo: 100-437041 LA file :

100-63077 p9 7,13,14

A109 22.

Report, 13 July 1965, Atlant

MARTIN

LUTHER KING JR: SECURITY MATTER -C.

No file numbers

A110

23. FBI Cable, IN- 258323, cülicl 3tehuecey

197/.

Rulegsct: Hemonctratenic at Wackongto, D0.

may nuyt sponcned ly nitenicl Cocetivi

agarnot Was, Racions and Beprescio

NERWRA

cladad

ss file wantce

(Boskeat)

AIr 25. Sudyesti aueladle for Racial Vedlence ni

ao ye ian 2 a verese Mimnt, Dos a

(Boctelet)

NW 65990 Docld:32397487 Page 6

---

## Page 7

A113

A 114

Report

, Wachengten, D.C. victobes 1967)

martens Lucker King, go.

no fele necmolecia

Raport

Chicago, 15 Khucay 1968

A 115

A, 16

Vectrom

766.100-43717

Brofols - 105-098315

8.

Report

wechengtre, DC. 23 ether 1967

national inchedozatios Comette (und)

to End the War in destroo

no fle numbers

2%

Report

washingtre, D.C, 10 august 196%

martin Leeties Hang, f. - Accessig Natter

els. (15-100-106670)

A 117

30.

Memorandum to Dept. of State,

24 Sept

MARTIN LUTHER KING,

JR.; SECURITY MATTER - C.

File: (IS) 100-106670

A 118

Report, 1%. August 66, Atlanta, Georgia

MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.; SECURITY MATTER

No file number

A119

32. Report,

23 Jan 68, NY

RE:

FOREIGN POLICY MATTERS ENGLAND

Bufile:

109-12-24

A. 120:33.

Paper,

18 pages,

11 March 1968

SUBJECT:

Outlook for Racial Violence in Washington, D.C.

DATE:

11 March 1968

No file.

A121

34,

Report

, 10 Apr 68,

Washington,

D.C.

ASSASSINATION OF MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.

No

file number

A , 221135.

Report,

18 Apr 68, Miami, Florida

CUBAN PROPAGANDA ACTIVITIES

Bufile: 105-2138

NW 65990 Docid:32397487 Page 7

---

## Page 8

1 23

36.

124

37.

A-126

Report,

23 April 1962, Miami Florida

WILLIAM WORTHY,

Bufile:

105-20110

Fld:

MM-105-4750

Report,

6 March

1957, New York

COMMUNIST

PARTY USA

Bufile:

100-3

Fld :

NY-100-4931

-Report: 12 August 65,

WASh. D.C.

A-127

A.128

A- 130,

A-131

Report 17. November 64, New york

Ike: Communist InFluence in Racial Matters

Bufile: 100-442529

Report 13 Nov. 64, New york

Re Commanist Influence In Racial Matters

Bufile : 100-442529

Report 29 Nor. 63, New Gork

Re: Bayard Rustin

Butile: 100-158.790

FId: 100-46729

Report

16 hug 13, Here Youk

Re: Bayard: Rustin

Bufile: 100-158790

d: 100-4672

Report 1a June 1968 Me YorK

Re: Stanley Levisan

Bufile:: 100-392452

A-132.

(DBA 91023)

sport: datal 27 hou 196%

subjet co cunt led a is names

Orgin:

Hore given '

slis document in clansifid ToP SECHE)

NW 65990 Docld:32397487 Page 8

---

## Page 9

A-/ 3.3

D BA 91035

A-412

Memorandum from Duitar 7 BI te

Duestar eTA

•Ruport dates 2l Decent 1964

wild attachment, datel 2/k-1964

Nem personal condildo.

Oigen: Wasngton, DC.

7de7t: Nome june.

Jup Sunt

Jetype to Dritos CiA

7 rom Citing Destra 7 8I

dated 1/19173

Reurtel # 3230

cony attacked

NW 65990 Docld:32397487 Page 9

---

## Page 10

REFER TO, FBI

(JAMES EARL RAY

(oar copies)

C

C

2:50 PM: 1-22-75 GAC

PRIORITY

1S04753

TO: DIRECTOR, CIA 2 09191362

FROM: CACTING DIRECTOR, FBI A

LEAST BARILYI

UNCLASSIFIED:

280. 2103300053p

GREECE SAGER DINITE CALE

ESCUE SORTER ENCE ARRES

307: 03

ARCH ARE ESCHEES ROFES

TRUE ARE TANES MERE.

36A2S

CACTUS

127360342L

DEND IS WARREN: NIX

03715

DOCUMENT AS RETAREPO TOL

C

REURTEL NUMBER 3235 DATED 1/19/73 -

ON A A SOURCE WHO HAS FURDISHED RELIABLE

INSORMAT IN THE PAST ADVISED HE HAD RECEIVED INFORMATION

CONCERTING: A PROPOSED HIJACKING OF AN UNIDENTIFIED AIRCRAFT..

DENNIS WARREN NIX AUDIAN ACCOMPLICE, RAYMOND FARRA, CONTACTED, A THIRD

PARTY WHO IN TURN CONTACTED OUR SOURCE CONCERNING A PLAI

N11R04

INDICATING AN ACTUAL HIJACK OPERATION TO BE PERFORMED BY TWO ESCAPEES

WANTED FOR MURDER. PURPOSE OF HIJAGKING TO DEMAND RANSOM AND

FREEDOM FOR SIRHAN SIRHAN, CONVICTED MURDERER OF SENATOR ROBERT

XENNEDY, ROBERT Bo DE PUGH, FORMER HEAD OF THE MINUTEMEN, JAMES EARL

RAY, CONVICTED MURDERER OF, MARTIN LUTHER KING AND THOMAS, ALBERT

TARRANISS ILI, CONVICTED FOR AN ATTENPTED BOMBING MURDER NIX IS

A WHITE HALE BORN 11/12/45, SIX FEET, ONE INCH, 175- POUNDS, BLOND

NW 65990 boeld 32397487 Page 10EDIUM BUILD, SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER 457-78-1433 €

A 203

---

## Page 11

PAGE TWO-S UNCLASSIFIED INCE

BORD, EARPES DO SORTS MALCH

HE THE ESCAPEES ARE POSSIBLE IDENTICAL WITH ROBERT CUNNINGHAM;

NEGRO MALE BORE 1215/384A5 DAYTON, OHIO, FIVE FEET NINE INCHES,

180 POUNDS, FBI NUMBER S724-2396 AND KENNETH J. WATTS, WHITE MALE, BORN

8/17/59 ACTEAST LEND EST IRGINIA, FIVE FEET WINE INCHES,OLTO

POUNDS, PELENUMBER 480-485 P.BOTH OF WHOM ARE ESCAPED MURDERERS.

UNLAWFIL FLIGHT TO AVOID CONFINEMENT - MURDER WARRANTS WERE ISSUED

FOR THESE FUGITIVES 11/15/72, AT COLUMBUS, OHIO.

FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION HEADQUARTERS WAS ADVISED AND

HAS, THROUGH AIR TRANSPORTATION SECURITY BULLETIN NUMBER 52-72 ALERTED

THEIR REGIONAL OFFICES AS WELL AS INDIVIDUAL/ AIRPORTS AND MEMBER

AIRLINES.

INVESTIGATION TO DATE HAS FAILED TO DEVELOP ANY, FURTHER

POSITIVE INFORMATION REGARDING THIS PROPOSED PLOT. NO

ASSOCIATION HAS BEEN DETERMINED BETWEEN NIX AND FARRA AND THE TVO

ESCAPEES WHO ESCAPED FROM THE CHILLICOTHE CORRECTIONAL INSTIZUTION IN

ONTO,, LL15/726 FUGITIVE WATTS LAST DETERMINED TO BE IN THE STATES OF

FLORIDA.

STEM

OUR INVESTIGATION IS CONTINUING IN AN EFFORT TO DETERMINE, IF

SUCH A CONSPIRACY EXISTS• PER YOUR REQUEST, THIS INFORMATION

FLUS THE PROTOGRAPH OF NIX PREVIOUSLY FURNISHED YOU MAY BE PASSED

TO FORETEN LIAISON OFFICIALS IT BEING NOTED THAT OTHER THAN THE

ABOVE INFORMATION, THESE ALLEGATIONS HAVE NOT BEEN FURTHER

NW. 65990, Docld:32397487 Page 11

---

## Page 12

FARRA, ALSO KNOWN AS CHARLES RAYMOND FARRA, IS WHITE MALE,

BORN 1/2/35 AT VILLIAMSON, NEST VIRGINIA, FIVE FEET, ELEVEN INCHES.

156 POUNDS, DARK BROWN MAIR, BROWN EYES, WITH A TATTOO ON LEFT

HAND, APPENDIX SCAR AND BULLET WOUND ON THE STOMACH., FARRA HAS

BEED CONVICTED OF AUTO THEFT, ARMED ROBBERY AND JAIL BREAKING-

END PAGE ONE

STAL

GREAT DOM GIENE PASTE DOVE RATE LOSTREOS OVER 137 DERAI203

HE IS ALE TENANTENNE

BUTYARD NOTORA CONTARIO CUS

SOARCEECONOERN NANS

ELS IMPDET WN- SISM

CL BY 012682

88012095

SATER SOCEEDER S

THRUT WIENER SENIO AND CHORE NOCE

NW 65990 Docld:32397487 Page 12

---

## Page 13

:37PM 2-3-71 EBM

PRIORITY

TO: THE PRESIDENT 002

TO :

THE VICE PRESIDENT

ATT.: MR. KENT B. CRANE

TO: SECRETARY OF STATE

TO: DIRECTOR, CIA BD2

TO: DIRECTOR, DEFENSE INTELLIGENCE ACENCY 222

TO: DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY 002

TO: DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE 082

TO: NAVAL INVESTIGATIVE SERVICE 002

TO: U•S. SECRET SERVICE (PID)

TO: ATTORNEY GENERAL (BY MESSENGER)

TO: NAIONAL SECURITY AGENCY, ATT: SENIOR OPERATION OFFICER

FROM: DIRECTOR, FBI

CONFIDENTIAL

3 FEBN 258323

DEMONSTRATIONS AT WASHINGTON, D.C., MAY NEXT SPONSORED BY THE

NATIONAL COALITION AGAINST WAR, RACISM AND REPRESSION ONCAWRR) •

END PAGE ONE

NW 65990 Docld:32397487 Page 13

SECREDOCUMEN, AS REFERRED TO

ERL

attachios

FULL TWAT CORIA DO NOT BELEASE

A-n10

---

## Page 14

SECRET

IN 258323 PADEZ/8

-SEIFIED NESSAGE.

PAGE TWO

CONFIDENIIAL

IT WAS PREVIOUSLY REPORTED THAT THE NCAWRR IS SPONSORING •

DEMONSTRATIONS AT WASHINGION, D.C., DURING THE FIRST WEEK IN

• MAY NEXT TO DEMAND THAT THE UNITED STATES WITHDRAW FROM VIETNAM.

ONE DAY OF THE DEMONSTRATIONS, TENTATIVELY SELECTED AS MAY FIVE,

WAS TO BE USED FOR CIVIL DISOBEDIENCE. RENNIE DAVIS, WHO HAS BEEN

CONVICTED FOR VIOLATION OF THE ANTIRIOT LAW AND WHO IS A LEADER

OF THE NCAWRR, HAS URGED THAT DEMONSTRATORS BLOCK ACCESS ROADS

TO WASHINGTON, D.C., TO SHUT DOWN IHE GOVERNMENT.

A MEETING OF THE NCAWRR CONTINUATIONS COMMITTEE WAS HELD

IN DETROIT, MICHIGAN, JANUARY THIRTY - THIRTY ONE LAST TO MAKE

PLANS FOR THE DEMONSTRATIONS. APPROXIMATELY FORTY FIVE INDIVIDUALS

PARTICIPATED. THE COMMITTEE CONSIDERED THREE ITEMS: THE PEOPLE'S

PEACE TREATY, THE APRIL IWO - FOUR DEMONSTRATIONS TO HONOR:

DR. MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR., AND THE MAY DEMONSTRATIONS. TASK

FORCES WERE ESTABLISHED FOR EACH OF THESE ITEMS•

IT WAS DECIDED THAT THE NCAWRR WILL SEND A REPRESENTATIVE TO

A NATIONAL STUDENT ASSOCIATION (NSA) MEETING AT ANN ARBOR, MICHIGAN,

FEBRUARY FIVE - SIX NEXT AT WHICH THE TREATY WILL BE DISCUSSED •

END PAGE TWO

NW 65990 Docld:32397487 Page 14

SECRET

---

## Page 15

SECRET

258323 PAE 3/б

CLERAIFIED MESSAGE

PAGE THREE CONFIDENTIAL

THE PEOPLE'S PEACE TREATY REFERS TO A TREATY NEGOTIATED BY THE NSA

WITH THE NORTH VIEINAMESE RECENTLY. THE NCAWRR EXPECIS THAT A

COMMITTEE WILL BE FORMED AT THIS MEETING WHICH WILL BE COMPOSED

OF FIVE NSA MEMBERS, FIVE INDIVIDUALS ASSOCIATED WITH THE NCAWRR,

AND FIVE NATIONALLY PROMINENT INDIVIDUALS. RENNIE DAVIS IS

PUSHING FOR THE PEACE TREATY. THE ANN ARBOR MEETING WILL

DETERMINE HOW IHE PEACE TREATY WILL BE MADE A PART OF THE MAY

DEMONSTRATIONS. MANY OF THE INDIVIDUALS ATTENDING THE NCAWRR

WERE CONCERNED THAT TREATY NEGOTIATIONS BY OTHER THAN THE

GOVERNMENT MAY BE ILLEGAL. THE TREATY MAY BE GIVEN ANOTHER NAME,

CONCERNING THE APRIL TWO - FOUR DEMONSTRATIONS TO COMMEMORATE

THE ASSASSINATION OF DR. MARTIN LUTHER KING, JRO, IT WAS DECIDED

THAT LOCAL ACTIONS WILL BE HELD ON APRIL TWO. THESE ACTIONS

WILL CONSIST OF LOBBYING AT FEDERAL AGENCIES CONCERNING POVERTY

AND WELFARE. ON APRIL THREE, HUNGER MARCHES WILL BE HELD TO

DEMAND AN END TO POVERTY AND AN END TO WAR. PARTICIPANTS WILL

ATTEMPT TO GET BUSINESSMEN TO SPONSOR THEM AND TO PAY SO MUCH

PER- MILE FOR EVERY MILE MARCHED.

MONEY RAISED BY THIS METHOD

EVD PAGE THREE

NW 65990 Docld:32397487 Page 15

---

## Page 16

CLESEURIED MESSAGE

SECRET

IN 258 323 PAGE 4/8.

PAGE FOUR CONFIDENTIAL

WILL BE CONTRIBUTED TO RELIGIOUS AND POVERTY GROUPS• APRIL FOUR

WILL BE A DAY OF COMMEMORATION OF THE ASSASSINATION OF DRO

KING• ACTIVITY ON THIS DAY WILL BE RELIGIOUS IN TONE AND WILL

BE DIRECTED BY THE SOUTHERN CHRISTIAN LEADERSHIP CONFERENCE (SCLC) •

IN ADDITION, IT IS HOPED THAI A PUBLIC FAST INVOLVING TEN

PROMINENT INDIVIDUALS CAN BE BEGUN ON APRIL TWO. INCLUDED AMONG

THESE INDIVIDUALS WILL BE RALPH ABERNATHY OF THE SCLC; CAESAR CHAVEZ

OF THE UNITED FARM WORKERS UNION; GEORGE WILEY OF THE NATIONAL

WELFARE RIGHIS ORGANIZATION; DAVID DELLINGER OF THE NCAWRR; AND

IF POSSIBLE, MRS. MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR. THOSE PARTICIPATING

IN THE FAST WILL DEMAND AN END TO THE WAR AND A GUARANIEED INCOME

OF FIFTY FIVE HUNDRED DOLLARS•

IT WAS NOTED AT THE MEETING THAT ALL ACTIVITIES DISCUSSED FOR

APRIL TWO - FOUR ARE SUBJECT TO CHANGE AS THE SCLC IS EXPECTED

TO PLAY THE MAJOR ROLE IN THESE DEMONSIRATIONS•

THE TASK FORCE FOR THE MAY DEMONSTRATIONS INCLUDE DAVID

DELLLINGER; RENNIE DAVIS; SIDNEY PECK, A FORMER MEMBER OF THE

COMMUNIST PARTY; AND GILBERT GREEN A MEMBER OF THE COMMUNIST

PARTY, USA, NATIONAL COMMITTEE•

END PAGE FOUR

NW 65990 Docld:32397487 Page 16

---

## Page 17

CLRESITTED MESSAGE

SECRET

IN

255323 PAGE 5/5

PAGE FIVE

CONFIDENTIAL

IT WAS DECIDED THAT NO DEMONSTRATIONS WILL BE PLANNED FOR

MAY ONE SINCE THIS IS A TRADITIONAL DAY FOR COMMUNIST CELEBRATIONS

AND THE NCAWRR DOES NOT DESIRE TO BE IDENTIFIED WITH THESE

CELEBRATIONS:

ON MAY TWO, A MASS ASSEMBLY IS PLANNED AT WASHINGTON, D.C.,

TO HEAR VARIOUS ANTIWAR SPEAKERS AND TO RATIFY THE PEOPLE'S PEACE

TREATY. WHILE WASHINGTON, DoCo, WILL BE THE FOCAL POINT, OTHER

DEMONSTRATIONS MAY BE HELD IN VARIOUS CITIES. THE ASSEMBLY WILL

REPORTEDLY BE A PEACEFUL ONE WITH A "RELIGIOUS QUALITY." THE

PRESIDENT WILL BE ASKED TO SET A DATE FOR THE END OF THE WAR AND A

DATE FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF A GUARANTEED ANNUAL INCOME PARTICIPANIS

IN THE ASSEMBLY WILL BE ASKED TO SIAY IN WASHINGION, D.C., TO LOBBY

WITH CONGRESSMEN, HOLD VIGILS, AND TO DISTRIBUTE LEAFLETS. THIS

ACTIVITY WILL BE SET FOR MAY THREE ALONG WITH VISITS TO GOVERN-

MENT AGENCIES.

ON MAY FOUR THE DEMONSTRATORS WILL VISIT WAR-RELATED

GOVERNMENT AGENCIES. IN THIS CONNECTION, THE PENTAGON, SELECTIVE

SERVICE HEADQUARTERS, CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY, AND THE

END PAGE FIVE

NW 65990 Docld:32397487 Page 17

---

## Page 18

CLEFSTTIED MESSAGE

SECRET

1: 258323 FACE /8

PAGE SIX CONFIDENTIAL

DEPARIMENT OF DEFENSE WERE MENTIONED•

ALL OF THE ABOVE ACTIVITIES ARE POINTED TOWARD BUILDING A "BASIC

MORITORIUM TYPE ASSEMBLY ON MAY FIVE WHICH WILL SEEK TO END

*BUSINESS AS USUAL ON THE WAR* AND ON THE PROBLEMS OF RACISM

AND REPRESSION. AT THE MEETING, IT WAS STRESSED THAT ALL ACTIONS

ARE TO BE NONVIOLENI AND THAT ONLY "LIMITED CIVIL DISOBEDIENCE,"

IF ANY, WILL OCCUR IF GOVERNMENT AGENCIES DO NOT COOPERATE

TO THE EXTENT THAT ORDINARILY WOULD BE EXPECIED IN DEALING WITH

ANY AMERICAN CITIZEN WHO DESIRES TO HAVE A COMPLAINT HEARD •

THE BLOCKING OF ACCESS HIGHWAYS, WHICH RENNIE DAVIS HAS

BEEN URGING, WAS REJECTED IN FAVOR OF MORE LEGAL AND TRADITIONAL

NONVIOLENT ACTION•: THE NCAWRR DECIDED TO MAKE IT CLEARLY KNOWN

THAT ANYONE PARTICIPATING IS EXPECIED TO REMAIN NONVIOLENT AND

THAT SUCH ACTIONS AS TRASHING, POCK THROWING, OR INTIMIDATING

POLICE WILL NOT BE TOLERATED

BEGINNING ON APRIL TWO, KONVIOLENT TRAINING CENTERS WILL BE

SET UP IN VARIOUS PARTS OF THE UNITED STATED, INCLUDING WASHINGTONE

DoCog TO TRAIN POTENTIAL DEMONSTRATORS IN IHE "PHILOSOPHY AND

END PAGE SIX

NW 65990 Docld:32397487 Page 18

CECDET

---

## Page 19

CCRSSIFTED "HESSAGE

SECRET

IN: 2583233 PAGE7/5

PAGE SEVEN

CONFIDENTIAL

TACTICS OF NONVIOLENCS." THE NGARR WILL PROVIDE TRAINED MARSHALS

DURING THE DEMONSTRATIONS, IN THE EVENT IT BECOMES NECESSARY

TO USE RONVIOLENI DISOBEDIENCE," THESE ACTIVITIES WILL BE IN

THE FORM OF STRIKES, SII-DOWNS, WORK STOPPAGES, AND LEAFLETING

ON GOVERIMENT PROPERTY.

JAMES LAFFERTY OF THE NATIONAL PEACE ACTION COALITION (NPAC),

WHICH IS CONTROLLED BY THE SOCIALIST WORKERS PARTY, WAS ALLOWED

TO ATTEND THE AFTERNOON SESSION OF THE MEETING ON JANUARY THIRTY ONE.

AS PREVIOUSLY REPORTED, THE NPAC IS PLANNING MAJOR DEMONSTRATIONS

AT WASHINGION, D.C•, AND SAN FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA, ON APRIL-

TWENTY FOUR NEXT. THE NCAWRR HAD AGREED TO ASK NPAC IF IT WOULD

CO-SPONSOR THE MAY DEMONSIRATIONS:

TAFFERTY READ A LETTER WHICH

SAID THE NPAC COULD AGREE IO SUPPORT THE APRIL TWO - FOUR

DEMONSTRATIONS AND THE MAY DEMONSTRATIONS BUT PLANNED TO PROCEED

WITH THE DEMONSTRATIONS ON APRIL TWENTY FOUR• HE RAISED THE

QUESTIONS OF A POSSIBLE *JOINT SPRING CALENDER' IN WHICH THE

NCAWRR WOULD ENDORSE THE APRIL IWENTY FOUR DEMONSTRATIONS AND

FURNISH A SPEAKER IN RETURN FOR WHICH THE NPAC WOULD ENDORSE

END PAGE SEVEN

NW 65990 Docld:32397487 Page 19

---

## Page 20

SLESETTIED MESSAGE

•SECRET

11258323 PAGE S/

PAGE EIGHT

CONFIDENTIAL

THE MAY DEMONSTRATIONS• THE NCAWRR DID NOT AGREE TO THIS

ARRANGEMENT = LAFFERTY AGREED TO RAISE THE NCAWRR REQUEST FOR

CO-SPONSORSHIP WITH THE NPAC STEERING COMMITTEE, HOWEVER, NCAWRR

LEADERS DO NOT THINK THE NPAC WILL AGREE TO CANCEL THE APRIL

TWENTY FOUR DEMONSTRATIONS.

ACCORDING TO A SOURCE, WHO HAS FURNISHED RELIABLE INFORMATION

IN THE PAST, RON YOUNG, WHO HAS BEEN ACTIVE IN THE ANTIWAR MOVEMENT,

AND SIDNEY PECK WILL BE THE TWO KEY FIGURES OF THE NCARR, THERE

ARE TO BE SEVEN CO-CHAIRMEN OF THE CONTINUATIONS COMMITTEE. THESE

WILL INCLUDE BRADFORD LITTLE, OF THE COMMITTEE FOR NONVIOLENT

ACTION; RENNIE DAVIS; RICHARD FERNANDEZ, THE LEADER OF CLERGY AND

LAYMEN CONCERNED ABOUT VIETNAM; AN SCLC REPRESENTATIVE; AND

A REPRESENTATIVE FROM THE NATIONAL WELFARE RIGHIS ORGANIZATION.

IT WAS ALSO DECIDED TO CHANGE THE NAME OF THE NCAWRR TO THE

"PEOPLE'S COALITION FOR PEACE AND JUSTICE. THE NEXT MEETING

OF THE CONTINUATIONS COMMITTEE WILL BE HELD AT WASHINGTON, D.C.,

FEBRUARY TWENTY SEVEN - TWENTY EIGHT NEXT•

GP- 1

BT

NW 65990 Docld:32397487 Page 20

SFCRFT

---

## Page 21

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

PERSONINT HOUSE

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

TOTAL COPIES / 7:

ROUTING AND/OR INITIAL 533% 5*

SECRET

GROUP !

(When Filled In)

DOWACHACING ANO

DE CLAJSAFICATION

S ISSUED

SLOTTED

REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHISITED

01/50 5:00

INDEX:

DiNO

CLASSIFY TO CS FILE NO.

—AT: 2225

X-REF TO CS FILE NO.

DISSEr SY 23

7\

- PER SOP 136

FILE RID

RETURN TO

5

6

3

4

TempouReno

PRECEDENC

- BRANCH

CC: PG.

61/563

FILE, VE DE/, D/D C1, Ex/DIR, DDP, ES/RF, ADDP,

246

CSDO, ISECURY

:37PM 2-3-71 EBM

PRIORITY

TO :

TO :

THE PRESIDENT 002

THE VICE PRESIDENT

ATT.: MR. KENT B. CRANE

TO: SECRETARY OF STATE

TO: DIRECTOR, CIA D02

TO: DIRECIOR, DEFENSE INTELLIGENCE ACENCY 222

TO: DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY 002

TO: DEPARIMENT OF THE AIR FORCE 682

TO: NAVAL INVESTIGATIVE SERVICE 002

TO: U•S• SECRET SERVICE (PID)

TO: ATTORNEY GENERAL (BY MESSENGER)

Ci/sogsts

2225 3

TO: NAIONAL SECURITY AGENCY, ATI: SENIOR OPERATION OFFICER

FROM: DIRECTOR, FBI

CONFIDENTIAL

3 FEB IN 258323

DEMONSTRATIONS AT WASHINGTON, D. Co, MAY NEXT SPONSORED BY THE

NATIONAL COALITION AGAINSI WAR, RACISM AND REPRESSION (NCAWRR>•

END PAGE ONE

FULL TEXT COPY - DO KOT RELEASE

NW 65990. Docld:32397487 Page 21

SECRET

---

