# DOCID-32370080

## Page 1

JEK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD

NUMBER: 104-10147-10018

RECORD SERIES : JEK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

: 80T01357A

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM : GABRIELSON, R.S

TO : CHIEF/CI STAFF/DDO

TITLE : NOSENKO RELATED MATERIAL.

DATE: 12/19/1978

PAGES : 3

SUBJECTS : NOSENKO, Y.I.

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER

CLASSIFICATION : SECRET

RESTRICTIONS

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED IN PARI PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

:07/22/93

COMMENTS

: JFK60

: E2: 1993.07.22.15:33:34:090280.

Heleased under the John F. Kennedy

assassination Records Collection Aet of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

65924 Date: 10:26:2021

[R] - ITEM

IS RESTRICTED

104-10147-10018

NW 65924 Docld:32370080 Page 1

---

## Page 2

ORCAuly 12

OLC #78-3591

19 December 1978

Navenko

MEMORANDUM FOR

SUBJECT

:

Chief/CI Staff/DDO

Attn: Mike Sednaoui/Julian Fox

Chief/SE Division/DDO

Attn: Ed

Andrews

NOSENKO Related Material

(U)

1. During the

course of the House Select Committee

on Assassinations investigations, various files relating

to the Nosenko case were provided by your offices for

HSCA staff to review at Headquarters.

These files are

identified by subject in the

attached listing.

The files

are currently in my custody in Room 6D5317, OLC/HSCA.

2. Please review this listing and identify those

files which were provided by your office, or in cases

where the files came from the outside, those which should

properly be stored in your custody, and arrange to retrieve

the files. (U)

3. Much of this material may be soon requested by

FOIAers. All of this material is covered by an agreement

between the DCl and Congress

which requires

that it be

retained, in tact, for a period of 30 years. So, do not

alter the files in any manner after you have retrieved

them

until we have decided

upon a course of

action to

fulfill this archival commitment.

That decision should be

reached prior to the end of March 1979 and will probably

involve the copying of the entire file for archival purposes

after which

the

originals can be returned to active use. (U)

Rodger

Rodger

Gabrielsc

Attachment

21543

NW 65924 Docld:32370080 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Folder entitled - Attachment #1. to the Questions on Nosenko & Oswald

submitted on May 19, 1978 - Nosenko & Oswald Activities in 1962 (a comparison)

Material Received from Ambassador Dobrynin Relating to Oswald

All files (Information) on a Purported MVD or KGB facility in Minisk

Folder entitlted Nosenko (Material in Deryabin Safe)

Golitsyn - Vols. I, II, III & IV (201-99788)

Kara Patnitzky - Waldemar Boris - (201-114188;

File folder entitled Defectors - Nosenko

(w/Tab I)

Case of Yuriy Ivanovich Nosenko - Vol. I, pages 1-84 (Parts I, II, III, & IV)

'"="

Vol II, pages 85-348 (Part V)

11

11

Vol III, pages 349-602 (Part VI)

Vol IV, pages 603-835 (Part VI, VIII, IX)

AEDONOR/OSWALD

Nosenko Interrogation, Reel #1; #2, #3 - 26 July 1965

Items from Nosenko Study (1968) in Response to HSCA Request, 29 March 1978

Loose file - Peter Deryabin Material on Nosenko

Hart Report

CIA Study - "Conclusions & Comments in the Case of Yuriy Ivanovich Nosenko

Copy #1 - 1 October 1968

The Examination of Bona Fides of KGB Defector - February 1968

Bruce Solie's 26 Page Report - OS 8-144/A re Nosenko

Deryabin Reports on Interrogation of Nosenko

Golitsyn re Nosenko 1969

AB Case 4361 - Analysis of "Oswald"' Letter

KGB Personalities in the Minski Area - 12 May 1977

Memo dated 19 September 1977 for D/FBI from DDO - Subject Lee Harvey Oswald

Memo for the Record - dated 12 May 1977: - Subject: KGB Personalities in

the Minsk Area

Manila Envelope containing Miscellaneous documents. & two tapes

- with

Notation - Committee Exhibits

NW 65924 Docld:32370080 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Paper entitled - Tab I - Nosenko

Statement on the bona fides of the Soviet defector Yuriy Ivanovich Nosenko

(prepared by CI Staff - derived. from John L. Hart Study)

Paper entitled - PETR SERGEYEVICH DERYABIN

Paper entitled - ANATOLIY MIKHAYLOVICH GOLITSYN

Memo to Deputy Chief, Security Analysis Group, dated 29 October 1975,

Subject:

Documents Relating to the Kennedy Assassination

7. soft files entitled - Oswald's Contacts with the Cuban and

Soviet Embassies in Mexico City. Contacts given in their order

of occurence

Document from 835 page study - Deryabin on Nosenko

Envelope containing miscellaneous handwritten & typed notes on

Nosenko

NW 65924 Docld:32370080 Page 4

---

