# DOCID-32406891

## Page 1

104-10167-10256

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Flecords Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note]. Case#:NW

55997 Date: 10-28-2021

.

SECRET

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

Memorandum of Conversation

DATE: 10 July 1959

SUBJECT

: Telephone Conversation with Herbert Nice, Director of Intelligence,

Bureau of Innigration.

PARTICIPANTS, Herbert Nice and I. j. Flores

COPIES TO

lo di 1600 on 9 July I retaraed Mr. Rice's call.

Be said that they

hed been told by the State Benartment thet Pedro luis

DIA: Lanz, fonger

chief of the Cuban Retolutionary Air Force, was no longer avatlable to the

people who wanted to see him.

He said thst, official stand of INS on the

matter is that DIAZ Lans has been admitted

as a resident alien and that

IN'S cannot be expected to keep track of him since this is a free country.

He also seid that amofficially he wanted to infora me that dIaz Lans is

under subpoena to the Senate Intersal Security Subcamittee and that we

could get is touch with him by contacting the Cormittee's offices. I

thanked hin for the infernation and said that I would refer the matter

to ny supervisors Imediately.

2a I noticed that the conversational tone used by Nice in talling

me the above was somewhat forsal, and believe that this call was obviously

for the record.

Re-enfercing my belief is the fact that liice said the had

called ne outside of custonary liaison channtis because be wanted to make

sure that the man sho would have to do the work involved could be aware

of the situation.

I asked hia then If his seaning was that ve could invito DIat

Lans to be our voluntary guest for the peried of time necessary for the

Intolligence comunity to debrief h's, and he agreed that this was the

case.

I told hin trat le had only learned that DIAZ, was being brought.

¡ to Hashington jesterday afternoon and that there were sany intelligence

reguirerents Involred in the natter which tie had not had sufficient time

to pouch to our man in Miant.

TeR NO: 1132

.SECIET

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

/go

NW 65987 Docld:32406891 Page 1

---

## Page 2

104-10167-10256

SECRET

Lo To take the chill off the conversation, I thanked Nice for the

cooperation we had received from hin and his bureau on the matter of tbe

exfiltration of the five former Eul officials fron Cuba. I also asked

him 15 a letter of apreciation on tris matter nizat, be velcone. He

replied that it night be better 11 I consulted the Alien Branch of the

Office of Security on this since too nany letters of this sort night

cause eyebrows to be raised at his - and that there vere runors that be

right be shifted to another position. I said tiat I sas sorry to hear

this, but hoped that if true it might be to a less difficult and more

rewarding job.

03 .

• FLOr

SECRET

Идо

NW 65987 Docld:32406891 Page 2

---

