# DOCID-32345770

## Page 1

Date: 11/30/04

JEK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER

:104-10059-10395

RECORD

SERIES

: JEK

AGENCY FILE

NUMBER

80T01357A

---------

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM

: BRECKINRIDGE, SCOTT D., OLC

TO : MEMO FOR THE

RECORD

TITLE

MEETING WITH HSCA CHIEF COUNSEL G. ROBERT BLAKEY.

DATE

06/20/1978

PAGES

2

SUBJECTS :

HSCA MEETING

MEXICO AGENT

•DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

RESTRICTIONS

1B

CURRENT STATUS

RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS•

DATE

OF LAST REVIEW

: 07/10/93

COMMENTS

JFK8 : F73: 1993.07.10.10:38:28:250340 : ROUTING

SHEET

IS PAGE 1 OF

DOCUMENT.

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Rosassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

55924 Date: 10-21-2021

[R]

- ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10059-10395

NW 65924 Docld:32345770 Page 1

---

## Page 2

- SENDER WILL CHECK CLASSIFICATION TOP AND BOTTOM

SUNGLASSIFIED.

I CONE NTIAL A SEERE

OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP

NAME AND ADDRESS

N. Shepanek PCS/ LOC

Russ Holm

DATE

21 June 78

INITIALS

3

5

6

ACTION

APPROYAL

COMMENT

CONCURRENCE

DIRECT REPLY

DISPATCH

FILE

INFORMATION

PREPARE REPLY

RECOMMENDATION

RETURN

SIGNATURE

Remarks:

Attached Memo

-...

Please refer to

HSCA Itr of 14 June 1978 - OLC 78-2185

already tasked to you.

S. D. Breckinridge

Russ, have asked Bill Starshitt

tries pond to this please tod

Thanks,

She

FOLD HERE TO RETURN TO SÉNDER

FROM: NAME, ADDRESS AND PHONE NO.

DATE

UNCLASSIFIED

FoRM No 237 Use previous editions

CONFIDENTIAL

SECRET

NW 65924 Docld:32345770 Page 2

---

## Page 3

OLC: 78-240612

20 June 1978

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Meeting with HSCA Chief Counsel G. Robert Blakey

1. In the course of a meeting with Mi. Blakey this morning, we

discussed the method by which questions would be put to the agent

in Mexico. It developed that he has in mind two agents, the one about

whom we knew (Durant) and one with which we were not familiar

(Manuel Calvillo). I think he was not entirely clear as to these two

people, although his alternative approaches place on us a requirement

to be sure that we identify them properly for purposes of his questions.

They are discussed below:

Durant.

He recalled that Durant operated the photo-

graphic surveillance post of the Soviet Embassy. I told

him that I understood that Durant was in charge of the

Cuban coverage.

b. Manuel Calvillo. He understood that Calvillo ran the

Cuban photographic surveillance site. Beyond this,

however, Calvillo was of interest to him for other

reasons.

Elena Garo de Paz told of seeing Oswald at

various parties in Mexico City, at the time of his

visit there in 1963. She also said that 'a couple of

days" after the assassination of President Kennedy,

Calvillo picked her up, took her to a hotel and inter-

rogated her.

2. Given the possible confusion of who operated the Cuban and

Soviet OPs, Mi. Blakey said that he would want the individuals

correctly identified and have the questions addressed to them.

3. Additionally, MI. Blakey wants

such information as we have

on Calvillo.

OLC: SDB:kjw (21 June 1978)

Distribution:

S. D. BRECKINRIDGE

Original - OLC Chrono

PCS/LOC (Shepanek)

OS (Sullivan)

OIG (Young)

0p11a1

04204

NW.65924 Docld:32345770-Page 3

---

