# DOCID-34432675

## Page 1

Date :

11/05/98

Page

1

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER

RECORDS SERIES

AGENCY FILE

NUMBER

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

: INSCOM/CSF

194-10012-10138

DOD-AFFILIATED PERSONNEL AND INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS

ZF000003W - PAGES 231-248

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR

USA

FROM

TO

TITLE : APPENDIX "A"

DATE: 01/14/56

PAGES : 18

SUBJECTS : SLOVODA, VLADIMIR

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Aet of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

66000 Date: 11-04-2021

***

PERSONALITIES ENCOUNTERED DURING SUBJECT'S RESIDENCE*IN

BAUTZEN

***

*

DONNELL, KIM MATTHEW

* W*

* I*

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL, DOCUMENT

*T*

CLASSIFICATION : CONFIDENTIAL

*H*

RESTRICTIONS : 1B, 2

*D*

CURRENT STATUS : POSTPONED IN FULL

*R*

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 03/20/95

*A*

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS : THE REVIEW BOARD VOTED THAT THIS DOCUMENT IS NOT

*W*

*A*

BELIEVED RELEVANT TO THE ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT*I*

KENNEDY.

**

*C*

*A*

*R*

*D*

* *

***

* * *

***

NW 66000 Docld:34432675 Page 1

---

## Page 2

GUNNIULIE

Appy

'A'

to report No

309/2/2/414 dated

14.

Jan 56.

PERSONAL IAIES RICOUNDED

DURING

SUBUNCT'S RESIDENCE

BAUTZION

1.

Britons

Americans

Frenchmen

Germang

Others (civilians and military)

Comments on civilian population.

BRITISH

(a) JOHNSTONG

- Believed to be:- 23108954 Pte JOHNSTONE

1 A & Silo

12 Jun 55.

Noy 55, BAUTZEN

Last seen

6 Jan 56, BAUTZEN

BAURRELT,

WASCHENSERGSTR 2 (sharing

one room flat with GORDON,.

Occupation

At political and language school.

Party Monkership

Not & menber of FDù or Corrunist

Party yet,

Escape Attemats

None known

aditional Into

Arrears

be quite happy in his

position;

He is known to associate with BULGIN,

and they

are often seen playing together in the

Clubhouse.

Gets drun: quite oîten, goes to Cafe

LET MANIT.

His aprearance and hrbits are dirty, and

known to be a noisy person,

(b)

(c)

IMEDIATE RETURN NOR LIKELY

ROBORTS -

Believed to be:-

23221775 Pte ROBERTS, G.

'3! Coy,

I CHESEIRE Regt,

Absent wef:

27 Jul 55.

First seen

Seginning Nov 55, BAVIZEN.

Last seen

₴ Jan

56,

sacress

BAUTZEN,

BAUTZEN

BLEICENSTR. (with inerican

POTORSON and widow).

Occupation

it political and languege school.

Party kembership

Not a member of FDJ or 0c.

sond at

Party yet.

Escape Attempts

ONE.

Involved in DONNELL second

attempt at the end

of Nov 55,

Additional Info

Appears to be against Rasgians and

Conmuni su,

spent Geman pot and does't

зеем

to lara anyo

Me is lonely, end

'for this

recson was, intendies to porry POTORSON's

widow, with

whon be is livins, at the end of Jon

Believed

to have"stolen 50 Sr MARkS fros DONNell, and some

nore fron AVARUZ.

Was beaten up by a Spaniard for

stealing:

RETURN

-INaDY (with or without wonan)

SULSON

Believed to be:- 22550094 Jor BULSON, B.

RE Tys, BORLIN,

Absent wei:. 5, Feb 55.

First seen

Feb 55, BAUMEN,

231

Last seen

6 Unh 56;

BAJIZON,

Aduregg

BAUTZEN,

ARADISER 9 (Suburbs),

Occupation

At political end lenguage school.

-going

He is

to work as a mechanic in

Party Membership

Komber of FDJ, Not. "a"nember of

NW 66000 Docld:34432675 Page 2.

---

## Page 3

Additional: Info

times to different

women,

and is engaged now to a 'good-tine' (suspected prostitute) girl

whon he intends to marry in Feb

56.

Well known for selling

anything he can get hold of ie. clothes, ration cards. He is

happy as long as he has enough money.

IMEDIATE RETURN NOT LIKALY

(a) SCANLAN

Believed to be:

4123694 Cpl SCANLAN, J.

Absent

wef

Worcs Regt.

Feb 50.

First seen

Liast

seen

Address

End of Mer 54, BAUTZEN.

Sep 55

in BAUTZeN.

Now in hospital with stomach trouble at GroSS-

POSTITZ, a village near BAUTZEN, where he lives.

Occupation

Used to work in the fermer's bank, B.H.G. (BAUERN

BANDILS GINOSSENSCHArT), et GROSS-POSTVITZ.

Party Veabership

Menber of the rDJ.

Not a member of the

Communist Party:

Escape Attempts

Additional Info

None known.

Has been sick since ley 54, Has treasurer

in FDGB (Federation Deutsches Gewerke-Schaft

3und) & Communist Trode Union.

He goes to

DONNELL states that

POSIWITZ

the "last, before he went into hespital.

and was living with her in GROSS-

She

has a thirteen year old child by her husband,

and

three children by SCANLAN.

RETURN - NOT LIVELY

(e) TYRETI

Believed

to be: 14475769 Pto TYRELi. R.

1 QUEENS

Absent wef

I918=

First seen

Lest seen

Address

Occupation®

Sumer 1954,

BAUTZEN.

18 Dec

BAUTZEN.

frOm BAUTZAN, (never lived in 3AUTZEN).

Used to work as a carpenter in LOWE,

now working

in the M.T.S. (Machine end Tractor Station) as

a tractor driver.

Party Membership

Member of the FDJ. Not a merber of the

Communist Party.

Holds an IDJ gold badge

for political knowledge.

Escape: Attempts.

Additional Info

None known.

Married, ind his wife is a member of the

Liberal Party. He is apparently fed up

despite the length, of time be has been there.

Has never lived in BAUTZEN. to. the best of

DONNaLL's knowledge,

though he visits the

Clubhouse, and worked in BAUTZEN. He is

belioved to still have his uniform, only he

has dyed it blue.

RETURN LITELY

(5) THOMAS

Believed to be:

21041912 Pto THOMAS

MANCH

2 Mar 51.

R

Absent wef

First seen

Mar 54, BAUTZEN.

Last seen

5 Jan 56, BAUTZEN.

Bauress

BAUTAEN,.

Bahnhofstr

Occupation

Norks in long as a practical apprentice

Party Membership

Cormittee laader of FDJ. Not a member

of the Communist Party yet.

Escape Attempts

None known,

252

editional Info

He is married and his wifé is a member of the

Comunist Party

end DED (DEVORATISCHE FRATEN DEUTSCHLAND).

DONNEL: states that -THOMASs father wrote,to him saying be was

LuMn

NW 66000 Docld:34432675 Page 3

---

## Page 4

going that

lone.

10,

and his wile

is expecting anothers

Is known to be

Of E

cowardly nature,

and is a petty thief according to DONaLi.

Has sold is

uniforne

(E)

RETURN - NOT LIKELY

• Believed to be:

14277185 Col SHARP, D.

I' QUEEN'S BAYS

Absent wef

Aor 51?

first seen

Mar 54,

BAUTZEN.

Last

seen

1 Jan 55, BAUTZON.

Address

Lives in converted Army barracks off LobAudisti.

BAUTZEN.

Occupation

Goes to the Political Sehool at RATLENAU PLATZ,

BAUTZEN

Gets 365 IST WINKS per wonth for

doing to the seacol.

Wes Official Germon/English

interpreter for the police, and for the political

teacher at the Political and Language. School.

Party

ership

Secretary of EWJS (Federation fur Velt

Jugend Bund). Menber of the Communist

Party. Menber of the Flu (was secretary).

Escupe attempts

Additionel Info

None Known.

Married.

Has a child that he gave snother

wonen,

and which he

subsequently adopted.

Believed to have sold his uniform.

(k) GORDON

RETURN - NOT LIKELY

Believed to

be:

2278977 GLOPI GORDON, 5.

1 4 3 38

8 Арг 55.

"Absent wef

First

Last

seen

seen

Ang 55, BAUTZEN.

BAUTZUN.

Address

BAUTZEN,

Occupation

It Political and language school, is going to

se & carpenter in BAU UNION (Building contractors).

Party Herbership

Herber of FDJ.

Not a member of. the

'Comunist Party.

Escape Attempts

Additional

Info

None known.

Is not narriec,

and doesn't live

with a

woack.

DONNALi states that GORDON haS been

talen away. many tines to ElST BERLIN, and

DRESDIN for further questioning and DONNELL

thinks that he' must have given away a

considerable acount of infornation.

Detectuent racords rever. that

GORDON had in

his possession, before he went absent,

following pazuhlets:-

Good Instruction" Parts I and II (Restricted

Battalion Anti-lank guns 120 m" (Restrietod

• "3,5 Rocket Launcher" (Restricted)

"Overcising

Trained Soldiers", (Restricted)

There was also an announceuent on the radia

that GORDON had sought asylune

He is

believed to have attended meetings of the

"German Soviet Friendship

Society" at

the

ZUM SOREREPISS. Cafe,

SPANDAU, NEST

(5):

IRN - NOT LI

SMITH

Believed to be:

22317852 in SUITE J.D.

Nelsh Guards.

Kirgo.

geer

Beginning 1955.

Last seen

Apr - May. 55?

Supposed to have been returned.

Ladreas

Was last in Clubhouse, BAUTZEN.

Occupation

Worked as an apprentice in LONG.

Party Membership

Not a member of FDJ or Cormuniat Party.

Escape Attempts

after the partiese

CONHDENTIRI

theit

NW 66000 Docld:34432675 Page 4

---

## Page 5

(15)

(1)

Additionel Info

SITE was apprehended by the police aiter

the cigarette theft and put in prisor.

He

was against the EAST GORIANS and Corrunists

and. wanted to return.

He lived with a

woman who was going to have a beby by him.

DONNeLL is not gure when SMITE left BAUTZEN

but thinks it wes hazil-May 55.

RETURNED. (MARCEL 1955)

Believed to be:

EX RUF IAC Joseph WeRE

(reference : SUNDAY PICTORIAL, Jan 1, Page 7).

First seen

Mer 54,

BAUCZEN.

Last

seen

Feb 55,

BAUTZEN two days before be left.

Address

First in TASCHENBERGSIR 10 then noved to FABRIKSTR

17 on 10 Oct 55.

Occupation

Welder in L0E,

dental nachanic in FOLE RUINIZ,

and brewery worker.

He changed his

job often.

Party Membershig

Menber of FDJ but not a nenbar of Concunist

Porty.

DONNELL believed he belonged to the

IRd also):

Escape Attemots

Additional Info

None known,

(supposed to have been 2 atteupts),

KORE was one of the best lown residents in

the BAUTIAN colony.

He was well known for his

escapades.

Supposed to have been engagod three

times in one day,

had nunerous girl friends

with whor he used to live.

His chief girl

friend until pr 54 vas & CRISTi, surname not

known; he had on egg fight with her and left

her, and then bad thrée girl frionds living with

him until Oct 54 when he noved to FABRIASTR 17

and lived wit: Magde RICKARD.

Was almost

continually crank, and fighting, alno moking

speeches for the Conmunists, Heat and I in

turn.

Tried to gain an arms decl with

Russians for the Ill. to create an impression.

DONNeL stated that the mother of one of

Kin's girl friends, possibly legin RICKRO,

had

a letter 2-3 months

ago frou XERE woo troto

that

he was well,

living in SIFASI, hedn't incurred

any punishents yet (always in trouble in

BANIZEN) and was coming book to Germany

sometime

this sumer.

RETURNED (D93 55)

IRVINE

Believed to be:

22278838 Ius IVID, R.

1 ВЗГ.

First seen

Oct. 54,

BAUTINN,

Last

seen

Feb

55,

BAUTZER.

Address

clubhouse and MARTIN 00PSTR, BAUTZEN.

Occupation

Apprentice mechanic. in LOVE,

Perty Membership

Member of Not.

Not a-nenber of Coruunist

Party.

scape

Attempte

No by railway,

Additional: Info

das not married,

Sus had a girt fianc.

Took part in the cigarette theit froz

tobacco kiosks in Ernst Thalmanstr, BAUTZEN,

with SMIth and CaPronu, and was given

EIGIT months imprisonment.

Last beard of as

working on an Id faxe i254501.

TURNED (13 JUL 55)

CONTIDEKIIAL

NW 66000 Docld:34432675 Page 5

---

## Page 6

(1) WILDY

CONNDENTIAL

Believed to be:

22550375 Sgin LATY J.R.

Sigs 2 1 0: C

Absent

wef

25

Sep

55.

First seen

Dec

Last

55.

SAer

29 Dec

55, BAUTIER.

Address

BAUTORN hospital.

Has Clubhouse.

Occupation

Was going to political and language school.

Party

Membership

No nembership yet.

Escape

atterpts

None known.

Additional

Info

He is a newconer to BURBON and DONElL only

sew hin for short time wien he went

to the

Lospital for treatment:

WALLY

is

in

hospital

with stonach uloers.:".

Fis attitude

about retury was not know.

He did have a

knife fight with the US Puerto Rican AVAREZ

but it was atopped before injury occurred.

IN EDITE

RETURN NOT LIKAY

(x) RUMPH

Believed to be:-

2217472 Gam RUWPI, W.

1 Welsh Guards

Absent wef

12 Oct 52•

DONNELL heard stories about RUMPII and. JAMES when he arrived

in BAUTZEN,

but both had returned before he got there.

Apparently they had led a pretty vid life,

and had been members

of the FDJ.: They used to live in HOTO, STADT BAUTZEN.

RETURNED (AUG 53)

(0)

JAMES

Believed, to be:- 22217458 Gam JAMES

1 Welsh Guards

Absent wef

12. Oct 52

See para (n) above.

(p)

KELLY

RETURNED 15 (Jun 53)

Believed to be:- 14187831 L opl KELLY. P.

1 BW

Always drunk.

Returned before

Used to work in RET.

DONNELL arrived in BAUTZEN.

RETURNED

(9)

HARTLEY, James

First

seen

BAUTZEN

Last seen

Address

Summer 1954, Sonewere near BAUTZEN,

Not known.

Occupation

Welder in LOWE.

Party Membership

lember of FDJ (against his will)

Escape Attempts

ONE.

Successful

Additional Info

Was married.

His wife was imprisoned

after he escaged,

but released later, and is believed to

have come from the West.

"RE TURNTH

(r)

SHARP. Hugh

- Believed to be:-

22511070 SHARP H

1. Kings Own

Absent wef

:

16 Jan 51.

DONNELL SayS

that both SHARP and HARTLEY were famous for the

battle

they had with ELEVSN policemen

when they were drunk once,

in BAUTZEN.

They overcame

the ELEVEN policemen

and were

only subdued

when more policemer

arrived and knocked them

unconscious with truncheons.

235

RETURNED

CONAIDENTIAL -

NW 66000 Docld:34432675 Page 6

---

## Page 7

(s)

(t)

(u)

(T)

(w)

CLANCY, William

LIWIS. Sanuel

CAMPBELL

NKO, Martin

DONNEL heard about the above mentioned, but they

had all left'before his arrival in BAUTZEN.

RAHHURIN

2209570 ? Pte STUART; Jack

2 Parachute Regt

Nothing known or heard by DONNELL.

Presumably still in WALDHEIM

Prison DDR serving a life

sentence

for Murder.

22826372 Pte CLAGRA, Earry

1 KOYLI

Nothing known or heard of the above mentioned by

DoNaut or about CLacRAM's girl-friend OSBOLD, Herta,

who it is thought, fled with him to

the ROZ on

20 Aug 54.

P/268336 Major SQUIRES

RAEC

AVOL wei 30 Sep 47

Nothing known or heard by DONNELLo.

BOOTH

an unknown person, believed to be inglish, living

with another Englishnan who drives an American

1939 DODGE in BALLE (MAY 55).

DONNELL told by

Charles LUCAS, US Defector, and Russian 'tristy"

who travels in the DoR.

SM 18435 Pte CROSS, RZ.F.

2 3n PPCLI

AWOL wef 11 May 55.

Nothing known or heard, about this Canadian soldier,

by DONNELL.

AMERICANS

(a)

SHRARER, Artzur

April 54,

BAUEZEN

Oct 55,

BAUTZEN.

BORED MONICK, POSTSCHER GASSE, BAUTS

- Hechenic in 3T.KRIANN PABRIX.

wenber of FDJ. Not a menber

of Communist Party.

None known.

Not married but lives with a girlirtend Astra

KOPATSKI who helped him to

go

over to the

ROZ.

He

is strongly against the Fussians but is afraid to

come back

the Americans.

Drinks & lot

quite & few fights.

and

had

Ge ig

now in prison for attempted

rape.

IM DIATS RETURN NOT LIKELY

ZUrTO, Raymond. (depro)

Aug 54,

BAUTZEN

236

5 Jan 56,

BAUTZEN.

floor), BAUTIE.

Practical apprehtice in Lois:

Th 22s ha

NW 66000 Docld:34432675 Page 7

---

## Page 8

(d)

(e)

LUNTULHHIAL

denber

of Flu.

He is'not a nonber of the Coumnist Party yet.

None known.

Married to SECLINDE, the womas who is supposed to have

worked for

the Americans and

who helped HUrTe

to escape

from detention." SECLINDI then had an affair with the

French defector LaVARDE and helped him to escape back

to the West.

She later followed him to the West

DONNELL stated that he caught JUTTO several tines informing

the Russians about defectorg

in the colony (including

DONNELL).

HUTTO will apparently do anything for money, and

has many girl friends.

RENURN NOD LIKELY

LUCAS, Charlas (negro)

Mar 54,

BAUTZEN

Dec 55, BAUTHEN.

PLATZ der ROTEN ARMED & (second floor), BAUTZEN.

Former in LONE,

Member of EDu, and taires an sotive pert in political meetings.

None inown.

•He is not married but has many girlfriends on whom he

spends most of his money.

Zè doesn't drink or suoze

and seems to be quite

Jappy in SAUIZEN.

As a "trusty"

heris

allowed to travel about the DDR.

RETURN NOT LIKELY

BOYD, Arthur (Negro)

May 54, BAUTZEN

8 Dec 55, BAUTBAN.

lives. in SINGWITZ:

Mechanic, in WNDWIRTSCHAFT MASCHINEN BAU FABRIK,

Member of FDu. Not a nenber of Communist Perty.

SINGWITZ.

None known.

BOYD

is married and has two children, his wife

expecting anothor in lay 56.

He appears to have no

affection for his wife and children, and drinks a lot.

de is quite friendly with the fussians, and apparently

has a lot of crines with the Anerican; Authorities.

RETURIT NOT ZIKULY

PUMPY James (Nerzo)

Sep

65, in BAUTZEN

4 Jan

56,

'in

• BAUTZEN.

Lives in BAUIZEN Clubhouse.

Attends Folitical and language school.

He is a very active member of i party. He-is-

possibly a commnist.

None known.

PuLLEY is to be marzied on 29 Jan 56.

His

wife to

be is a member of the

Tu and president of the DEd.

He is a keen boter.

RETURN NOI LIKELY

May 55,

BAUTZEN

Jan 56,

BAUTZEN

BAUTZEN,

Siegel

Str. 7. III Floor.

Attendo political

and

language

school.

He is a member of

not active part.

None known.

ex SOLTANE

Has married in Sep

55.

He appears to be weak

maled,

and

is doninated

He has no

to vith him iron UNezeN.

by his wife He does not bother

children,

us81a094-

TUNNEL NO RETURN NOT LIONLY

-85.

NW 66000 Docld:34432675 Page 8

---

## Page 9

(g)

-8-

perliaps

Soot

ales

(15 )

SCOTT

Huge

Jun 54,

BAUTZEN

Dec

55,

BAUTZUN

KIRSCHAU. ,

Works in weaving factory in KIRSCHAU.

He is a member of the FDJ,

but is apposed to

the Communists.

None known.

SCOTT is' married but has no

children.

He drinks

heavily and is often in fights.

He hates the

Russians,

and would like

to return,

but is afraid

of an old crime

with the American

Authorities.

He drinks

and fights a

REPURN NOT LIKELY

WOODS TORy

Har 54 in big house near 3BRUIN (see pars 3

sus para (b).

. Jun 55 in BAUTZEN, TAUCHBRSTR gaol.

UPG Goda.

1 the IPG Goda..

Member of FDJ (ageinst the organisation).

ONE,

by train.. hrrested in DREDEN.

WOODS was not merried but was fanous

for his

girl friends.

Once he bad a fight with the

manager of

'the Clubhouse - SCHATTEL.

demanded

to be returned to the WEST on being

thrown into

prison for trying to escape and this was

apparently

complied wit's owing to his behaviour.

RETUR AD

MURPHY Clifford

Mar 54,

BAUTZEN.

Dec 55. BAUTZEN,

Lives in Tasohenberg 2, Hintenhous, BLUDZEN.

de is & painter in LOVE,

Due to his age 16, he is not a member of the Flu.

None known.

MURPHY has written many articles for the SACHISCHE

Zeitung condemning

the fmerican Army.

and Peterson

"beat him up' for this.

He was present when COFFMAN was attacked (died

result

of injuries)

but took no

part in it.

married and has one

He is happy in

BAUTZEN and does not wish to

It is believed that he

in Germany and is trying

to contact hit.

RETURN NOT LIKELY

DEROCITE JOSEph

apr .51,

BAURZEN

4 dan

56,

BAUTZEN,

HOLZARKT 9, (over

• VOWESSOLIDARITAT)

Welder in Lot.

Member of the FDJ

238

None knows.

DEROCHE is marriec to a woman who has 4 children by

another nan,

ages,

20,

17,

15,

professed RC and as such

does

13.

He is a self

not

LAix with the

Russians.

He drinks heavily and is known to stay out.

at nights with

other

women.

return.

Fe

does not wish to

NW 66000 Docld:34432675 Page 9

---

## Page 10

(m)

(in)

SMATIL WOODS

CONFIDENTIAL

Richard

End of 54, BAUTZIN.

Jan 55,

BAUTZEN

Lives

in the Clubhouse, BAUTZEN.

Goes to Political and language school

No party.

Refused to join FDJ.

Nọt known.

SMALIWOODS wishes to return to the West.

He was

jailed for talking against Communism and is believed

to be-serving a sentence of 15 years in GELBE

EHLAND (prison for long term political prisoners).

Nothing has been heard about him since his sentence.

He is not married.

RETURN NOT

LIKELY

BUNTING Francis

Apr 54;

BAUTZEN

Jun 55,

SAITZENFORST

POTSDAM

Working on an LPG in POTSDAN

Member of the IDJ and is believed to be a communist.

None known.

BUNTING is very friendly with the Russians and is

thought to be an informer for them.

Married a widow with 2 children.

He only drinks a little and likes to talk about

himself.,

RETURN NOT LIKELY

COFFMANN Richard

Dec 54,

BAUTZEN

Died 13

Feb. 55,

in BAUTZEN

HOLZMARKT 6,

BAUTZEN (was)

Attended Political and: Language

school

Was a member of FDJ, and an American Communist.

None known:

On the 14 Feb 55, DONNELL found the body of COFFMAN!

in his girlfriend's house at

STRASSE der. FREUNDSCHAFT 27.

The girl had not reported the death.

Before his death COFIMANN wrote. two poems and one

song about the Red Army and was a great favourite

with the Russians.

This, it was believed, was

the cause of his death,

the result of being beaten

up. by 3 Germans, two öf whom were refugees from

SCHLESIEN.

COFIMANN was buried

on the 16 Feb 55, but was later

removed to his unit by the American Authorities.

ie?

DIED (14 Feb 55)

Jack Negro

Aug 54, BAUTZEN

2 Jan 56, BAUTZEN

East BERLIN.

Works in the FRIEDENS PAT.

A member of the FIJ and SED

None known.

HILLEY has

taken German Nationality.

He is married

and his wife was regarded with suspicion by DONNElL

as she

knows all the particulers about each of the

Western residents in BAUTZEN colony.

Does not

want to return.

He'earns plenty of

money which

on drink and women.

Do go CONEL ENTIAL

NW 66000 Docld:34432675 Page 10

---

## Page 11

(p)

CURRENT

LOWNi Norman

Nas in BAUTZEN until 24 Dec 53)•

Was

resident et Taschenberg 10. II flat.

Not inown.

Not known.

Not known,

LOWELL left BAUTZEN by taxi on the

24 Dec 53

and is believed to heve returned to

the West.

PETARSON William

Apr 54,

BAUTZEN.

Aug 55, BAUTZEN.

BLEICHENSTE.

Welder in

LOWE.

Wag a nember

of the FDJ.

Three Known

attenpts and "possibly nore.

PETIRSON was very keen to return to the lest.

He was married;

but had no children.

Before going

to BAUTZEN he hed been in. ¿ Russian prison for 3 years.

He hated the Russiand made repeated attempts to escape.

Fbout three months ago he comnitted suicide by gassing

himself. DONCuL did not see PeTutSON's body nor did

he

the funeral.

The reason for suicide was believed

to.

be

because.of his repeatedly unsuccessiul escape

attempts®

(r)

PROBABLY DEAD

AVAREZ JOE (PUALTO RICAN) (Possibly on alies, Could

- be: DIAZ,

Pater

Oct 55, BAUTZEN.

4 Jan 56, BAUTHON.

MARTIN BOOFSTR; BAUTUEN.

Attends political and language school.

He is Vice President of the IDJ ond is thought to be

a Communist.

None, known.

AVAREZ is not parried.

he does not dance, szoke,

drink; and most of his time

is teen up in Study.

has a girlfriend in the VOPD. Wants to follow

GROSSMAN's example.

RETURN NOT LIKELY

SMITEI George

Aug: 54,

BAUrZEN.

17

Dec so, Autuan.

Z1PTA0, 2407020 1052383.20.

strengineer schoo1fin, peris goboel, and rember

FDJ President of the Engineer

of the Comunist Party,

also an AKrIVIST.

None Inown.

Was married

in Novenber 1955,

but has not children.

He works

politically with the

hussians,

and writes

articles for the SAChISOnE 28I2UNG.

te does not drink

very such and does not want to return. Has now taken

German Nationality.

RETURU NOT LIKULY

240

CONNIDENTIALEN

NW 66000 Docld:34432675 Page 11

---

## Page 12

(t)

GROSSMANN Victor,

AND ASSIFIED

Apr 54, BAUTZEN.

AuB 54,

BAUTZEN.

LEIPLIG.

Goes to

IBIPEIG University.

He is a menber of the FDJ and Comunist Party.

None known.

He

is harried, and works politically with the

Russians and E Gerans.

He is studying Political

Econony at LEIPZIG University, and received a

distinction and 1000 marks prenium for the result

of his first year exar.

and spends most of his time in study.

He does not drink, or smoke,

He is

'believed to be a Jew'.

He speaks perfect German

and is learning Pussian and French,

Does not want

return

RETURN NOT LIKAUY

(d)

MORAN Pailip

hpr 54 in BAUTZEN.

Dec' 55

iN BAUTZEN.

FARESTE,

BAUTEEN.

Turner in

LONE.

Meriber

of FDJ (no active part).

- To attents, possibly nore.

MORAN is perried to a Pussian woran,

but hes no

children.

He speake perfect Russian as he lived

for a tine in Russia.

However he is against the

Russions and wants to return.

REFUL LIKELY

(K).

GARRICK GuY

ADr 54 BAUTZEN.

2. Jan. 56,

BAUTZEN.

Lives

on

Works. on

far near BAUTEEN (address not enown).

same form near BAUTZEN.

Not a member of Foüor Communist Party.

ONe, by railway, unsuccessful.

He is not narried now,

although he hes been.

He is:

against Conuisa, and has been in geol for NINE

months for theit.

He wants to come back but DONNELL

is doubtful that he will male it owing to the fact

that hé drinks a lot, and causes trouble.

ETURN

LIKELY

REGRADED UNCLASSIFIED

ON

J. JUL -1991

BY COR USAINSCOM F01/PO

AUTH Pera T-e: 3 DOD 5200.1R

:0c)

Mental

Asylus, SNEIGNITZ

Not known.

Not a nenber of FDi or Communist Porty.

None known.

TURNS was narried in the USh and had tro

children,

however he cane to the DoR with a wouan called SElEA

frOM MUSNCRON.

Big

attitude towards the Comunists is un'nown and

it

hes

been reported that the Russians will hand TURNER

back to

the American Authorities.

UNSLASSIEI

RETURN LIKELY

NW 66000 Docld:34432675 Page 12

---

## Page 13

(1)

CONFIBENTIAL

CLAYTON William

Apr 54, BAUTZEN.

Dec 55,

BAUTZEN.

LPG FREUNDSCHAFT AURITZ

Works on the LPG at AJRITZ.

Menber of FDJ, but against

Has nade several unsuccessiul attempts to cacape end has

been in prison ag

& result.

DONNELL states that CLAYTON wants' to returi.

RETURN LIKELY

STABLOY,

George

May 54,

Dec 55,

BAUTZEN,

BAUTZEN.

Lives in & village near SING/ITZ not far Iron BAUTZEN.

Carpenter in powe.

Menber

of FDa (no active part).

None known.

He is married

and. has no children.

He does sot works

for or ageinst the Russians

sad appears to be quite

happy in his position although he has been sick with

stomach trouble for sometime.

RETURN NOT LIKELY

APPENDIX

3.

FRENCHMEN

(a)

LOBART Andre

April

54, BAUTZEN

3 Jan

56,

BAUTZEN

BAUTZEN,

MUSKAUERSTR.

Was a mechante in LOWE

Member

oI fDo and a French Communist

None known.

LOBART

is now believed to be in DREHSA hospital

with tuberculosis.

He is married; has

three children

and his wife is expecting another.

He wears his

French Communist Party badge, but does not bother

with the Russians as he seems to have his.oun

ideas

about cormunism.. He seems to be quite happy In BAUTZEN

TURN NOT LIKELY

BONY AR

April 54, BAUTZEN

December 55., BAUTZEN

TUACiORSIR, BAUTZEN

Borer

in RUNDFUNK and

FERNMELD TECHNIK.

Member of FDJ, not a Communist.

ONE, unsuccessful, reached POLAND

BONYAR is married and has one child.

He is

taking German Nationality shortly and his nother

is thought to be German.

He does not bother

with the Russians and seems to be quite happy.

in his position:

He lives in the same house as

TRUTENAUT

the dentist.

24.2

RETURN NOT

LIKELY

NW 66000 Docld:34432675 Page 13

---

## Page 14

(c)

(a)

April 54, BAUTZEN

August 55,

BAUTZEN

Rosenstr,. EAUTZEN

Used to do to school in DRESDEN

Member of FDJ and an AKIIVIST

None known

GOURINI is now serving a six months gaol sentence

for stabbing a girl with a knife;

she is

also

expecting a baby. by him.

GOURINI is friendly

towards the Russians and goes to visit Russian

Officers in their guarters.

He drinks a lot:

and

is quick tempered.

He is not married.

RETURN NOT LIKELY

ALESSI, Mario

1954, BAUTZEN

December 55,. BAUTZEN

LPG GODA

He is in charge of the Repair Workshop

in the

LPG GODA.

Ho

is an excellent mechanic.

Member of FDJ (no active part),

None known

ALESSI is married and has two

children.

He was

supposed ta go

the Engineer School, but was not

sent oving to a lack of political interest.

He

does

not fraternize with the Russian.

He appears

to

be

a jolly type ho drinks a lot and likes fighting.

RETURN NOT LIKELY

(e)

(I)

ROCHE

April 54, BAUIZEN

December 55, BAUCZEN

SCHULERSIR,

BAUIZEN

Carpenter in LOWE

Member of FDJ and a French Communist

None known:

ROCHE is married, but has no children.

He speaks

Russian and is

sometimes used

as an interpreter when

Franch Communist delegations go. to BAUTZEN.

Has

been in a number of

fights and often uses a knife.

Appears to be quite happy in his position.

RETURN NOT LIKELY.

LEROY Simon

May 54, BAUTZEN

June 55, BAUIZEN

KARI-MARXSIR 7,

BAUTZEN

Worked in LOWE labaratory.

Member

of

FDJ.

Two attempts;

second attempt successful

LEROY was imprisoned for 3 or 4 weeks as a result

of his irst attompt to escape.

He_was married

and his wife had one illegitinate child.

He was

friendly with two Russian officers and knew quite

a Lot about communism although it is doubtful

that he sympathised with the Russians.

He

apparently came from a well-to-do French family

and was not happy at

BAUTZEN.

RETURNED

243

14/

NW 66000 Docld:34432675 Page 14

---

## Page 15

(8)

CONEIDENPIAL

LEVARDI, Frank

Jan 55,

BAUTZEN

May

55, BAUTZEN

Clubhouse,

BAUTZEN

Went to Pol and Language school

Member of FDJ (against his will)

ONE,

successful

LEVARDT had been a French journalist and becuase

of this the Russians tried

to entice him to work

for them, these attempts were apparently

unsuccessful. He was a quiet, well mannered

person who was liked by everyone. - HUTTO's wife

SECLINDE, helped LEUARDI to escape back to the

West.

(b)

RETURNED

ALLAL

(MOROCCAN)

residing In KIRSCHAV

SCHEIK

residing

in WILTHEN

• MELODIE

residing

in

BAUTZEN

CASSEM

residing

15 RAUTEEN

ACHMED

rosiding

in

UTZEN

HUSSEN

residing

in NaSCU

A DEL CADER (ALGERIAN) residing in BAUTZEN

Various French defectors of whom DONNELI, has

11ttle knowledge, as under:-

April 54 BAUTZEN

Dee 55 BAUTZEN

Approximate addresses

as above (they apparantly

chinge addresses every 2a.3 months)

411 go to Pol and Lang sehool

All members of FDJ

None known

None

of the a/m are married. They are hostile

towards everyone and are alveys in trouble.

They

have all been in gaol at one

time or another for

fighting and the German people dislike them.

are

They

given more privileges and money than the other

allied defectors there because they are looked

upon by

the Russians as some of

the

"downtrodden

peoples

from capitalist countries"

ALL ARE NOT LINKLY TO RETURN

GERMANS

(s)

SCHANTEL Heinz

Approx 26. Mar 54, BAUTZEN

June 55, BAUTZEN

GODA

Was director of Clubhouse until Jun 55 then went

to Political School for two years and

is still

there.

Member of SED. Twice an AKTIVIST

SCHATTEL is married and has one child.

As director

of the Clubhouse he was responsible for the welfare

of the allied

defectors in BAUTZEN and their financial

political and

educational supervision.

24.4

CONFIDENTAL

NW 66000 Docld:34432675 Page 15

---

## Page 16

(b)

(a)

(e)

COMEIDENTIAL

FUCKS, Heinrich

March 54,

BAUTZEN

4 Jan 56 BAUTZEN

ARNDISTR 11 BAUTZEN

Director of the political and languages shool

BAUTZEN.

Also teaches politics in the school

Member of the SED.

FUCHS is married and has one child. He also

suffers from epileptic fits and has to go to a

hospital in DRESDEN every Tuesday for treatment,

He

drinks heavily mostly in the MITROPA restaurant

on BAUTZEN station. He supports the French-

Moroccans and is hoping to make a political teacher

of one of them although he has mot with little

success.

NOWARCH, Manfred

April 54,

3 Jan

56

BAUTZEN

BAURZEN

GRUBSCHUTZ near BAUTZEN

Took over as Director of the Clubhouse

when

SCHAPTEL left in Jun 55 before then he

was in

charge of

the entertainments in the Clubhouse.

Member of the SED

NOWARCH is married and lives at GRUBSCHUTZ.

He was

wounded in WORLD WAR II and cannot move

his left

arn vory well.

He doesn't drink or

smoke

and thinks evoryone should do the same.

NEUMANN

DONNELE has only seen the a/n once on 4 Jan 56

the Clubhouse and asked

to speak

to all the allied defectors one at a time.

Apparently. NEUMANY is a membor of the DDR

Government who deals with

"foreigners' in the

He came from

BERLIN. DONNELy did not go

for his interview.

ROTMANN

The am is a member of the Rat des Kreises who

often visits the Clubhouse

for an unknown reason,

DONNELL was in the Clubhouse reception office

on 3 Jan 56 when ROTANN was there, and overheari

the fact that he was going to BuRLIN for a few

weeks and had to take TEN photographs of hinsel?

5.

OTHES MILITARY AND CIVILIAN)

(a) GOLD, Bidney

DONNELI remenbers seeirg Sidney GOLD some time

during the Sunner of 1954 but didn't see him any

more after his ationpt to escape with his brother

u/m during Aug - Sep 54, and were arrested on the

autobahn

to DRESDEN. Both GOLDs worked as

carpenters in toWE,

24 TURNED (Deo 54)

16/.

NW 66000 Docld:34432675 Page 16

---

## Page 17

(b)

(e)

(a)

(e)

GONFIDENTIAL

Brothar of the a/m.

Arnold GOLD used to often

talk against Communism and

the Russians.

DONNELL

also remembers secing Arnold GOLD during the summer

of 1954, but did not see him again after his arrest,

with his brother, on

the autobahn to DRESDEN trying

to escape.

The GOLDs had a dog with

them when

they

tried to

escape, which ws

shot upon their arrest.

DONNELL did not see either of the GOLDS again,

however SCHATTEL told him they were back in the

Weat.

RETURNED (Dec 54)

DARLEY Peter

April 54, BAUTZEN

'4 Jan 56

BAUTZEN

FIEDLENSTR 9 BAUTZEN

Goes to engineering school

Local Leader for sport and

athletios in the FDJ

He is also a member of the Communist Party in

ENGLAND (BIRMINGHAM?)

None known

DARLEY has been in BAUIZEN over four years now

and is apparently quite happy. Beldeved to

been demobilised, gone to BERLIN to attend

a Communist rally and then stayed in the DDR.

taking German Nationality this year.

RETURN NOT LIKELY

'ALI' (Kenya)

Dec 55 BAUTZEN

4 Jan 56 BAUIZEN

Clubhouse BAUTZEN

Goes to Political and

Langusge school,

Not = member of FDJ jet, but has asked to join.

None known.

'ALI' inn'turriod and hasn't any girlfriends.

He hates the English in BAUTZEN and doesn't

speak

to them, otherwose hu appears to be quite happy.

His attitude towards the Russians is not yet known?

RETURN LOT LIKELY

_JANSEN, Pete (Dutch)

AprIL 54, BAUEZEN

4 Jan 56

BAUTZEN

MATTIGSTR, BAUTZEN

Goes to Engineering School in BAUTZEN

President of 'Foreigners' EDJ, and is a candidate.

for the SED.

None known.

He is married and has one child, his wife is a

member of the SED.

works with the Russians and

as a 'trusty" is

allowed to travel all over the

He has already been to WARSAW and PRAGUE

on a delegation.

He drinks, and likes dancing

preforably

in the HOTEL WEISES ROSS where important

BAUTZEN.

Eumast and DDR off4 18 stay when visiting

GONEENTIAL

17/..

NW 66000 Docld:34432675 Page 17

---

## Page 18

(I)

(h)

(j)

(ks)

NW 66000 Docld:34432675 Page 18

CONFIPENTIAL

MOTO Adelani (Nigerian)

May 54, BAUTZEN

3 Jan 56 BAUTZEN

KARL - MARASTR 22, BAUTZEN

Goes to a political school

First President of the

'Foreigners' FDJ in BAUTZEN

and is now

'AKTIVIST'

One, unsuccessful, (Feb 54)

At first MOTO did not want to stay in BAUTZEN

but realised the uselessness of a negro trying

to escape, so decided to make the best of his

predicament. He works for the Russians and has

spoken at big meetings and on the radio.

not married but has had a few affairs with

married women. Likes dancing.

RETURN NOT LIKELY

I GEORG(E) ' (Russian)

DONNELL saw GEORGE for the first and last time

in March 1954 at MAGDEBURG when he was briefly

interrogated by him (soe PART III para 3 sub para

(o)). He dressed, spoke and Icoked like an .

Emerican.

He ippeared to be regarded with

considerable importance by the Russian officers

and men.

He

is fairly tall, dark and slightly

bald.

'ALIX! (Russian)

First seen in BAUTZEN April 54 and last

during the winter of 1954.

He came to BAUTZEN

and stayed in the HOTEL FEISSES ROSS.

He asked

the allied residents questions about

welfare and any problems they had.

He usually

stayed for periods of two days, and made three

or four visits in all.

PHoL, John

An English journalist who is suspected of editing

a newspaper in the

DDR, written

favour of Communism, and originating from BERLIN.

The name was familiar to DONNELL though he

cannot remember hon.

DONNELL did state that

BAUTZEN residents could got a paper written

English origineting from East BERLIN. This paper

was headed THE GERIAN REPORT and underneath

title in smaller print was the word DEMOCRATIC'

The contents of the newspaper amounted to a

superfivial, intelligence summary of what was

happening in the West Zone, and West Sector of

Mr SHEPHERD (re Sunday Pictorial dated I Jan 56

page seven)

No person of this name was ever heard of by

DONNEll during his stay in BAUTZEN.

18/...

---

## Page 19

6

CONFIDENTIAL

Comments

on civilian population

(a)

During DONNELL's stay in BAUTZEN he observed KOREAN

students from DRESDEN who used to go to danges in

BAUTZEN,

they were studying politics, economy, etc.

There were

also. 20 - 30 Greeks, including girls and

boys, in BAUIZEN, going to the

Engineering school.

Charles LUCAS, US defector, and Russian 'trusty'

who is allowed to travel,

ülsa told DONNELL of

Chinese studying at LEIPZIG.

Allthe a/n foreigners

were Communists, though it is noteworthy that

many were merely young boys and girls.

(b)

In the course of associating with civilians,.

Russians and KV? in BAUTZEN, DONNELL formed

opinion from conversations,

the

and from observations

that the Russians were hated by the majority of

the civilian population. There were incidents

i.c, a Russian officer was found murdered with

a hatchet, there was sabotage in the factories,

i.e. LOWE

and EFA, and various other acts of

resistance.

The KVP with whom DONVELL conversed,

expressed

the

resclution that if the

Eastorn

powers declared war on ANnICA one day, the KVP

would leave them the next.

(c)

Civilians regarded the KVP and FDJ as similar

movements

to the HJ and 'Hitlerism' and

consequently hated the orgunisation, but not

the members of it, as they realised that they

were practioally forced to enlist in one or

the other.

The civilians hated the Russians for

what they did on entering the district towards:

the end of the war, one incident quoted vas

when a Russian soldier commandeered an alarm

clock from a civilian;

the alarm rang some

time later and the soldier thinking it a booby

trap shot the civilian dead.

248.

CONFIDENTIAL

NW 66000 Docld:34432675 Page 19

---

