# DOCID-32373684

## Page 1

JEK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY , CIA

RECORD NUMBER : 104-10308-10184

RECORD

SERIES

: JEK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

*LA DIV WORK FILE

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM : CHIEF OF STATION, UMWAVE

TO : CHIEF, SPECIAL AFFAIRS STAFF

TITLE : DISPAICH: OPERATIONAL PROGRESS REPORT.

DATE : 09/19/1963

PAGES : 6

SUBJECTS : OPERATIONAL

DISPATCH

PROGRESS REPORT

JEK ASSASSINATION

DOCUMENT. TYPE:

PAPER

CLASSIFICATION : SECRET

RESIRICTIONS

CORRENT STATUS

RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/06/04

COMMENTS

: JEK-WF02 : E9 : 20040323-1062389

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination

Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

ase# NW 65990 Date: 11-01-2021

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICIED

1041030810184

NW 65990 Docld:32373684 Page 1

---

## Page 2

INFO

ROM

DISPATCH

Chict. Special Mials Staff

CLASSIEICATION

PROCESSING.

HANG TEN 10444402

NO KADEXING ACQUIRLD

ONLY QUALIFIED

HCADQUARTERS DESK

GAN JUDGE INDEXING

ABSTRACT

Chief of Station

SUS Operational/TYPIC/AILEO

Operational progress Report AILED AnTiREAK

REQUIRED: KEFERENCES

ACTION

REQUIRED:

None; FYI

REFERENCES:

A.

UГG^-10496,

6 August 1003

WAVE 40341.

8 September

C.

UTGN-2379,

August 1963

D.

UFGA-7858, 25 February 1063

OPERATIONAL DEVELOPMENTS

This report will cover the perioil 3u July 1963 through

15 Soptomber 1963 and is a follow-up report

to reforence,

1.

EFFORTS TO LEGALLY EXFILTRATE ANLEO-2 EMILY FIOT CUBA

2. Sinco transmission of roference 1 to Headquarters sovoral

developments occurred which effectively

elininated several alternate

solutions to the problem of the AMLEO-a fanily in Cuba.

alternato solutions that were eliminated, as found in paragraph

3 of reference A, woro (a) "Malutain Status Quo as a Fantly

attempting Leave Cuba via Offices of Swiss Embassy as Part of the

American Repatriation Program"; (b): "Have AMLuO-3 Family

Withdraw Papers From the Swise Embassy and American Repatriation

Program and Attempt Leave Cuba as Normal: Refugees via Mexico:

Or Spatn"; and (e)

*Have the AMLC03 Fanily Case Taken up. Kith the

GOC Through the 'Donovan" Chapnol for Possible Legal Exfiltratiou".

Elimination of the above alternates left only tio solutions

that were at all feasible; (c) "Have tho AM.&O-3 Family Take

Asylum in either the Uruguayan or Moxican Embassies in Havana",

or: (d) "Have tho AMLEO-3 Fantly. Exfiltrated black in a Maritime

Opcration by eithor a KUDARk or Indepondent Maritine Team.

Because of the inherent risk involved in a black exfiltration,

it was decided that the AMLE0-3 fanily stould be put into

asylum in either the Uruguayan or Mexican embassios with all

possible speed.

(CONTINUED)

Distributiou

3-Hleadquaztors w/att USC

Attachment. USC

Idontities

Excisend tire artemait

CROSS NÉFERENCE TO

\ CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

DATE TYPED

10. Sept 6.

UFGA-11075

ARTERS FILE NUMBER

19-6-75/3

DATE DISPATCHED

19.6.

$4/3

NW 65990 Docld:32373684 Page 2

---

## Page 3

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICAtION

SECRET

DISPATCH SYMOCK AND NUMBER

UFGA 11375

To this end steps wore initlated in on 24 July 1903

to put the AMLEO-3 {anily and AMLE0-? Into asylum in tho Mexican

Embassy in Havaba. The AM.SO-3 fanily and AlLEO-2 vere advised

via the AMVEE-L OWVL channel on 4 August 1963 to proparo

thenselves for asylum and to await furthor orders via tha samo

channel. KUBARK, Station in Mexico City, mennihile, toot urgent

action through its Mexican Zlaison channels to have the Mexican

Forolga Ministry obtain visas for the AMI.E0-3 fantly and

AMLEO-2; and then send word to the Mexican Embassy in. Havana,

Cuba that the AXLZO-3 Innily and AMLEO-2 should be gxanted asylum

when they appeared at the Mexican Consulate under covor of

obtaining

The visa portion of the operation was

satisfactorily completed and notification of same was sent into

the Mexican Embassy in Havana; but word re asylum for tho

AMLEO-3 fanily and MJLEQ-2 was not sent to the Mexican embassy

due to insecure commo channels and lack of trusted courters, and

to date no secure mothod has yot been found to notify the Mexican

Embassy in Havana that asylum should be granted to the AMLEOs.

As a/result of the above, word was sent to MNEE-1

via OWVL on 11 September requestiog he detemine whether or not

Identity A'would be willing to act as intermediary to recolve

the AMLTO-3 fanily and AWLEQ-2 Into asylum at a specific tine

and date at the Mexican consulate. AMWSE-1 asked for

clarification on the mannor of approaching Identity A on the case

on 13 September via pouch, and more detalled guldance on the

mattor was-sobt to him via OIVL on 14 Septeuber. A final reply

re possibilities for action vla-this channel 18 oxpected trou

AMNES-1 momentarily. If the ANYEr-1 reply 1s favorable, then

he will be told to arrange the mecting at the Mexican consulate

between the AMLEOs and Identity A so that they can be taken into

asylum by the Mexicans.

As noted in reference B, if the AMiEE-1 roort 1s

negative one, then consideration

will be given

to having the

ANLEOs take asylun in the Uruguayan Embassy in lavana.

test case utilizing ANCANOL-3, mentioned in paragraph 5 A of

reference B,

is to be attenpted on or about 21 August 1902, and

1f this attenpt at asylus is succossful Chen arrangeuents will

be made to have the AXLEOs enter the Uruguajan Imbassy in the

As noted in paragraph l of refcrence B, the wife

o1 AMLEO-3 {inally nado a direct contnet with AXTIIUG-1 on ?

September 1963, while he was at his Santa Marla beach house,

and appealed to. bin for permiesion to

leave Cuba sith her

children and rejoin hor husband MIEO-3 ip the United States,

[On 14 Soptember 1963 AMLEO-J received a letter from his wife

giving more details on the above mecting.

The wife of ALILEO- 3

bad been visiting the beach home of a family friend, situatca

next, to that of ANTHUG on Santa Marla bench, da a daily basis

hoping to see AXTHUG-]*

Finally, on 7 September 1960, she saw

him swinniog alone: in the ocean

went into the water,

introduced herself, and requested pamission to

talk to bin.

AWTIUG-l granted this permission, and during

conversation

AUTUUG-I made it clear he would

not grant Mrs. AMLLO-3 permission

to depart Cuba at this tine, stating

that the tine was not

propitious due to the attacks and raids being carried out

against Cuba, and that kra. AMLEO3 would just have

then told him she did not soo why he was holding boi

and hex children responsible for what her husband did; that she

foared her husband might forget her and their children completely

it the separation continued, and that 1f MNLFO-3 was left nuch

longer alone he would find a wonan to replace her.

replled by asking her "Do you consider yourself a

burdon to your

husband?*

The wife replicd

asked "But he callo you overy day "Posaiblo", and ANTIUG 1 thou

FORM

1:60

53a

UNE PREVIOUS EDITION.

NW 65990 Docld:32373684 Page 3

---

## Page 4

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

STATEN SYMADE AND NUNDLE

UFGA-11375

Later during the conversation ANTIUG-1 asked

Mrs. AMLEO-3 11 her husband atill had the presentation Soviet

platol that he.had given him 1o 19G1, and Mrs.

Informed hin that her husband bad taken it with hia when ho

defected nod asked ANTHUG ] if ho wantod

it roturned to lilu;

ANTHUG-I did not reply to the question.

Later on, while

discussing her conversation with ANTHUG) with Identity A,

Identity B suggested: to Mrs, AMLEO-3 that she request AMLEQ-3

to send the pistol back to AMIHUG-1 via Anbassador LECHUGA

at the Undted Nations, NYC.

Identity B added that the return

of the pistol might help matters since tho loss of the pistol had

been one of the things that bothered ANTHUG-1 most whon

AXLEO3 defected,

(1.0, AMLEO-3.has noted that these special

presentation Soviot pistols were given by AMIUG-l to probably

less than ten people in Cuba, and their presentation had a very

special meaning for ANTHUG-]

since to recipiente were supposcu

to be his very personal "and close Iriends.

AWLEO-3 clains

that not even AMLOUT-1 had zeceived one

of these special

presentation pistols fron AHTHUG-l:) Consideration le being

given to AMTlUG-l's request,

11 1t would assist Ars. AMUS0-3

In her efforts to leave Cuba, but for the time being the pistol

will be held by KUBARK.

ANTHUG-l also told Mrs. AMLSO-3 that her husband had

stolen a light plane whon he fled and Implied (although sho

does not so state directly) that he would like to see 1t

returned.

The balance of Mrs: AML0O-3's letter concerned ber

desire to leave Cuba;

montloned the necessity for sinnoss by both

she and hor hüsband with no ragh actions, and without giving

any additional facts stated that hor conversation tilth AXTFIUG-1

been a long one but that she could not get him to make

any promises re hor departuro.

DEVELOPHENT OF OPERAZIONAL LEADS TO DISAFFECTED CUBANS

tho operational poriod one of AHl.E0-3's

operational leads,

ANTRUNK PM operation', was rocruited via the recently successful

ALTRUNE Infiltration

ANLEO-3 also screenod additional ANTRUNK leads and KUFUUE

Besition pation

whon he had witten a report on for the

operation and elvon the crypt of AXIRulk-10.

military leads during the period and was ablo to subnit

reports on some four individuals for these operations,

All such

loads were fed to him mixed in with many other Cuban names.

AXLEO-3 is presontly preparing reports on PHIS

target studies

Major Felipe GUERRA Matos and Anjor Jorge SEGUERA, Cuban

Ambassador to Algeria,

ANLEC-3 also assisted in tho handling of N60-5'g

wife durdog the period whon she established direct telephonic

communication with her husband in Cuba,

and tried

to convince

him that she wanted to return to Cuba with hor children,

but stipulated to. A-S that he would have to mect her in a third

country first and resolve their personal fnnily problens.

AMLEO-3 baby sat for the wife during these calls, since ve

only knew what day the calls would be coming

in and never the

He also assisted Mrs. AUE0-5 in recording the last telophr

conversation she had with her husband.

this same oporation

AXLEO3 also nssisted the Case Officer in the conversatioos

hold with the nother of AMLEO5 while she was in the United

States,

although he was never allowod to cstablish direct

contact with the nother.

We had hoped that the mother of

AMLEO-5 would attempt to establish

contact onher own with

AMLEO-3, but to WAVE Station knowledge she never attempted to do

she had, we would have allowed AMLEQ-] to respond to hor

contact efforts

(maintaining his cover as boing disassoclatod

with ODYOKE) •

11.

Durios the period fragmentary Information has been

receivod fron the wife of MuTC, (utilizine nicknamos or other

CLASSIFICATION

PAGENO

FORK

55d

USE PREVIOUS EDITION:

SECRET

CONTINUED

NW 65990 Docld:32373684 Page 4

---

## Page 5

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMDER

UTGA 11375

code phrases for individuals) indicating that Identity B

bas contiaued to be very helpful to hor by supplying

her with blackmarket food, loaning her her automobile, and other

wise assistlag her with hor problens.

Identity B aay

carrying out such actions on a genuine friendship basis,

(she has even been denounced by

the noighborhood defense

committee Has nssis ting gusanos") or she may be buying insurance

for the future,

The possibility also exists that she is reaaining

a confidant of Mrs, AMLEC-3 on orders of ANTIlUG-1 and 1s

reporting on all developnents to ANTHUG-1.

In early Septenber

1963 Raul PRINELLES (202327902) arrived at Identity B's

home for a visit while Mrs. AMLEO-3 was present.

Mx. and Mrs,

PRIMELLES ignored the presence of Ars. A-3 and did not speak

to herowbilo greeting Identity B.

Because of this Identity B

promptly turned her back on her visitors and did not anaver

continuing her conversation with Mrs. AMLEO-3, Mr.and

Mrs, PRIMILLES were throw into some confusion by this reception

and departed from the aren

Mrs.: AMLEQ-3 has also mentloned that UNSNAFT 12

was nost kind to her during her recent hone leave in cuba,

and made st quite clear she was anzious to get in touch with

AHLEO-3.

During the latter part of August Mrs. A-3 again

montioned to her husband that UNSNAFU-12 had writton Identity

B fron Faris stating she was surprised at not having heard

from AILEO-3,

ATTITUDE, MORALE, AND PENFORMANCE OF ANIEO-3

During the reporting perlod AMLEO-3 las consistently

cooporative with bis C/O and has maintaloed a good attitude

towards his work:

Duriog the latter part of Agust 1963 AMLE0-3

began to lose his patience with the slow progress in gotting

his wife into asylum, and began requesting permission to return

to Cuba himself in ordor to exfiltrate his wife black.

became quite demanding in this regard and clainod that KUBARK's

time had run out, and since he had waited patiently for aino

months he now felt it was his turn to try his luck.

ALILEO: 3

is extremely confident of his own ability in action sicuacious

and operations and extensive argumentation was neoded to

persuade him that such a course of action yould be suicidal

for his wife and children and that his wisest course of action

would be to give us additional time to bring the asylum operation

to a successful couclusion.

Decause of AMLB0-3's faith in

higher authority,

COS JIWAVE, Andrew K: REUIEMAN visited AXL5O-3

on 8 September 1963 Tor the purpose of convincing him that any

unilateral action on his part would only be counterproductive

and playing right into ANTHUG-l's baods.

KUDARK's 1imited

commitments to AMLEO-3 were also reviered along with the history

of our actions to help his wife and

children loave Cuba legally.

After some frank exchanges of facts AHLEO-3

was finally

• convinced

that the only productive course of action left to him was to

continue to sweat out the asylum proposition and hope for the

Absolutoly no further commitnents were made to AILE0-3

duriog thoso discussions and alternate courses of action if

the asylum attempts fail were not discussed

but instead left in

abeyance.

OPERATIONAL SUPPORT AND PLANNING

As previously mentioned in paragraph 13 of reforence A,

AMLEO 3 went to ZRUITAL during the period 26-30 July 1963 for

the purpose of obtaining a French visa

for his allas

documentation,

AMLEO-3 successfully obtained the French visa

durlog this trip, and his allas passport now contains valid visas

for travel to Spain and France.

FORM

5.80

53a

USE PREVIOUS EDITION.

CLASSIFICATION

SECRIT

PAGE NO,

NW 65990 Docld:32373684 Page 5

---

## Page 6

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

DISPATCH SYMDOL AND NUMBER

UGA 11375

= 15. WAVE Station regrets that roference C has not been

answored to date.

"In reply we can only stato that AlLEO-3

was thoroughly briefed on the linitations of his allas documentation

when cald documontation was issued to him.

He was told that thu

credit card documents could never bo used

for Identification or

credit purposes.

Ho bad also been warned to avold situations

where he would be asked for positive identification, such as

renting a car, and by attempting to procure a rental car in

ZRANTAL he was acting contrary to lostructions given to hiu

by his NAVE C/O.

On AIDEO 3's return to WVI he was castigated for

his actions, and again briefed on the limitations of his allus

documentation.

In order to strengthon his allas documentation

an I.D, card document identifying him as an employeeeo! "Charles

S. Wilson Associates" has been issued to him, as suggosted by

(Chester D. DAINOLD in conversations with ANURO-3 1n 2NUETAL.

In regard to points a and b in paragraph 2 of reference C,

KURIOT represcotative in VAVE Station states that the Florida

drivers license issued to Joseph A. Reese is a valid, backstoppod

delvers licenso for actual use by the Subject and the address

a legitinato safchouse with backstopped rontal cover.

Subject's

cover story was that he recently moved to the Miami area from

New Orleans, Louisiana (which city the Subject lived h for

several years and has relatives residing thore).

The Subjet's

documentation la therefore correct for his cover story.

spelling of "lostalnent" on the National Credit Card was corrcetly

copied from the

original document reproduced by KULIOT and we must

polot out that "'instalment" is not ónly correct accordine to tho

dictionariés but is the spelling of the word wilch is nor frequently

préferréd..

-Iho Was street Journes, suvarladly priots the kord

as Instalment" wIth one " TE Would be appreciated IT

Headquarters would in the future coordinate with KURIOT do

Headquarters on questions which deal with AQUATIC mattors prior to

querying WAVE:

COSTS

AMLEO 3 continuos to receive

a flat salary of five

hundred dollars ($500,00)

per month,

and also

is paid approxinately

one hundred dollars ($100.00) per mouth for purchase of fooustuffs

sinco he is encouragod to eat his meals la the KUBARK

safehouse and stay out of public places.

We have also continued

to pay the wife of AMLEO-s the anount of one hundred and twenty

dollars ($125,00) per month for subsistance for hersolt and ber

two children to supplement the $120.00 per month she recelyes

from the Cuban Refugee Center

The C/O has continued his efforts

to find part-tine employnent for Mrs. 11450-5 so

could be relleved of the necessity to support her, but to dato

ve bave been unsuccessful in our efforts primarily because Mrs.

ANÍLEO-5 has never worked in her life and has no work skills

No otber financial expenditures of note were made

during the period, and no financial assistance is presently

contemplated for any other. AMLEOS.

INTELLIGENCE PRODUCTION

Durdog the reporting period no positive intelligence

reports were disseminated by the Albio group since none

of

the

active agents are located! in the target area, por do they

circulate in Cuban exile circles.

We are continuing to utilize AIlEO-3 as a consultant

on the MIAPRON program, and to this end are planning to have

hin expand his reporting of personality inforsation on selected

Individuals and to utilize hin to explin interconnections

between various individuals and groups as they take shapo in

8-60

800 53a

USE PREVIOUS EDITION.

CLASSIFICATION

8E117

PAGE NO.

NW 65990 Docld:32373684 Page 6

---

## Page 7

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION

SE CRKT

DISPAICH SYMUOL AND NUMBER

UFGA-11375

FUTURE PLANS

19., Future plans for operational exploitation of AMLEO-3

continue to remain the same as outlined in detall in reference D.

The operational use of AMLIO3 in defection/recruitment

operations will pot be pernitted notil his wife and children are

successfully put into asylun in onc of the Latin Incrican Embassles

1n Havana*

20 .

WAVE Station will

continue to work on AMGlO-3 developmental

cases concentrating on MIAPRON leads, and attempt to build two-

way communications channols into such leads.

AMLEO 6 1s still

considered to be the beat qualified lead by AMLSO-J to act as.

prineipal agent and recruiter of other disaffected military

personnel in Cuba. - Details on those developnental operations

will be roported via separate dispatch,

END OF DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION

PAGENO.

FORM

5-G0

53g

..USE PREVIOUS EDITION

NW 65990 Docld:32373684 Page 7

---

