# DOCID-32396533

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER

: 104-10273-10325

RECORD SERIES

JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

80T01357A

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM

TO

: DIRECTOR

TITLE : CABLE: HEMMING BROTHERS INVOLVEMENT IN PLOT TO

ASSASSINATE LAUGERUD

DATE: 06/08/1976

PAGES

5

SUBJECTS

: HEMMING GERALD

JFK ASSASSINATION

HEMMING ROBERT

DOCUMENT TYPE

PAPER

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS

CONFIDENTIAL

1B

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

06/23/04

COMMENTS

: JFK-RH15 : F12 : 20040322-1061607

Heleased under the John F. Kenned!

Assassination Records Collection &et ol

1992 [44 USC 2107 Note]. Case#:N'vy

65990 Date: 11-01-2021

[R]

- ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10273-10325

NW 65990 Docld:32396533 Page 1

---

## Page 2

YEAR

I, NUMBER

1

2

OP E•

$351

DOCUMENT DESCRIPTION (Circle il appropriore) 130 CHARACTERS)

БАРАТЕМ

FORM

OrSFT

LETTER

MEMO

REPORT

RIFGRAM

FROM/ORIGINATOR (J0 CHARACTERS)

дос. NO.

NEW DOCUMENT RECORD

18570

Inseructions lo, Divisions ond Stolla:

1. Fill in and Sion on line 11.

2. Use back of fom for ony additional commenes.

DAY

MONTH

YEAR

IN 944357

Jun 76

TO/RECIPIENT (30 CHARACTERS)

3

WHERE LOCATED (10 OMARACTERS)

REFERRED BY (10 CHARACTERS)

DDO ?

DIR, Into LA/miami

DO FILE NUMBER (20 CHARACTERS)

4

S

5

SUBJECT (80 CHARACTERS)

re report on Pres. Laugerud.

6

ТуРЕ

OF

REVIEW

DATE

OF

REVIEW

DAY

MONTH

YEAR

25 AUG 1987

7

Determinations:

A.

Release in full text

B. Release in sanitized form

C. Deny in toto

D. Defer decision to (Specify in line 8)

H. Coordinate with (Specify in line 8)

DEFER DECISION TO (1O CHARACTERS) COORDINATE WITH (10 CHARACTERS)

CLASS

E. Sustain initial denial in toto

F. Sustain initial release of

of sanitized version

G. Release additional information

8

M. Keck

SIGNATURE OF DO/IMS/FPLG REVIEWING OFFICER

EXEMPTIONS AND PROVISIONS CLAIMED (40 CHARACTERS)

9

Е.0. 12356

FOIA

B4 85 06 B7C

B SIMPA

Exemptions and Provisions claimed to protect the following:

V.

10

1. Classification

2. Information from liaison with a Foreign Government

3. Information pertaining to a liaison

relationship with a Foreign Government

4. Information which would/could identify the

source

5.

Information pertaining to a source

6.

Information pertaining to intelligence methods

7.

Location

of CIA overseas installation.

8. Location

of unacknowledged domestic

installation

9.

Name

of CIA employee

10. File number

11. Pseudonym

12. Cryptonym

13. Internal organizational data

14.

Name

of an FBI agent

15. FBI file number

16. Privacy of other individual

17. Does not pertain to request

19. Other (Specify in line 11)

FOIA

(b) (1)

(b) (3)

(b) (3)

PA

(k) (1)

(5) (1)

(j) (1)

(b) (3)

(j) (1)

(b) (3)

(b) (3)

(b) (3)

(b) (3)

(j) (1)

(j) (1)

(j) (1)

(j) (1)

(b) (3)

(j) (1)

(b) (3)

(j) (1)

(b) (3)

(j) (1)

(b) (3)

(j) (1)

(b) (3)

(j) (1)

(b) (7) (c) (j) (1)

(b) (2)

(j) (1)

(b) (6)

(b)

REMARKS (IF OTHER ViAS CHECKED AEOVEI (AU CHARACTERS)

11

RENARASIDE: CHARLETEF:

12

HSCA Review at Has 1977; Pawley, Seymour, Sturgis

vo. II

Box # 52; (GeRALD

14

PATRICK HemmING)

ie four.

ri: The Information beion

LE::

DECL OLDE

OFY FRON.

NW-65990-Docld 32396533-Page 2 Tia.

---

## Page 3

cop.

SECRET

Jend BesT

•VER SOLID

IF .

FILE

STATE PRECEBENCE

F

т 981395

-.-..--.

E:1767

PAGE D1

TOR: 082242Z JUN 76

SECRET TEZZZBE JUN TO STAFF

CITE

TO: PRIORITY DIRECTOR INFO LA/MIAMI.

IN 944357

REFS: A.

1n 937052)

B.

NOT SENT LASMIAMIS (IN 890367)

1.

(")

PASSED STATION WRITTEN REPORT AND MADE

VERBAL REPORT IN DETAIL, ALL WITH KNOWLEDGE OF PRESIDENT LAUGERUD,

ON REF A CASE AND RESULTS. ACCORDING REPORT AND i A NATIONAL

LIBERATION MOVEMENT MLND WAS INVOLVED WITH JORGE ANTONIO " COKIE»

ZIMER I SAFIE, WHO HAS BEEN LIVING MIAMI SINGE

AUGUST 75.

IN PLOT TO ASSASSINATE LAUGERUD.

PLOT HAS TO HAVE BEEN CARRIED

OUT 15 SEPTEMBER 75 BUT ZIMERI WAS VICTIM OF ATTACK ON HIS LIFE

LATE AUGUST AND AS RESULT WENT TO MIAMI FOR MEDICAL TREATMENT.

REPORT AND ('' CLAIM THAT THO AMERICANS. BROTHERS ROBERT AND

GERALD PATRICK HEMMING INO STATION TRACESY, WERE ALSO

INVOLVED WITH ZIMERI IN PLOT AND THAT THEY ASSISTED HIM IN

ACQUiRING ARMS, AMONG OTHER THINGS, WHICH FLOWN 7O GUATEMALA

ILLEGÄLLY IN SMALL AIRCRAFT, REPORT ENDS WITH FIVE 15) REQUESTS

3Y LAUGERUD FOR INFO AS FOLLOWS:

SECRET

i total Goula

18570

FULL TEXT COPY - DO NOT RELEASE

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW

CONDUCTED ON 25

AG 193

CL REVIEW BY._

01092

O DECL O DOWNGR TO Ma

CITATION 13(0) 8R

CITATION -

NW 65990 Docld:32396533 Page 3

---

## Page 4

•E SEE DISSEN BY-

_PER.

¡ON UNIT NOTIFIED_

INCE COPY ISSUED'SLOTTED

ION UNIT

RF : FILE

TOTAL COPiES

SECRET

RUN BY

BY

AT

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THi

ISSUING

OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

STAFF

VR .

STION A

T

981395

EI A767

PAGE D2

TOR: 082242Z JUN 76

IN 944357

A. 15 ZIMERI STILL IN THE UNITED STATES.

B. DOES HE RECEIVE ANY KIND OF PREFERENTIAL TREATMENT BY

AUTHORITIES THERE WHICH PERMITS HIM TO CARRY FIREARMS, AS WELL

AS PÜRCHASE ARMS AND AMMUNITION FOR SHIPMENT TO GUATEMALA.

THEY CLAIM HE HAS CLOSE RELATIONS WITH POLICE OFFICIALS IN

NEW ORLEANS AND MIAMI.

C0. IS HE RECRUITING MERCENARIES THERE FOR POSSIBLE USE IN

GUATEMALA.

DO REQUEST FOR INFO ON ROBERT AND GERALD HEMMING.

E. IN EVENT ZIMERI NOT IN STATES LEGALLY, THEY REQUEST HE BE

DEPORTED TO GUATEMALA, E-68 SAYS HE LEFT GUATEMALA

ILLEGALLY

BUT• ÄRRIVED IN STATES LEGALLY. BUT GOG THINKS HIS VISA HAS.

EXPIRED AND HE THERE ILLEGALLY:

2

reinessition lei discusinelien

3

FULL TEXT COPY - DU NOT RELEASE

NW 65990 Docld:32396533 Page 4

---

## Page 5

SEr DISSEM BY pi

L'UNIT NOTIFIEO_

LE COPY ISSUEDISLOTTEO

V UNIT

RF. FILE

TOTAL COPIES

SECRET

RUN BY!

ISSUING

STAFF

BY

VR

981395

E:1767

PAGE D3

TOR: 082242Z JUN 76

IN 944357

dile

5

stehen quel

NW 65990 Docld:32396533 Page 5

---

## Page 6

SEC DISSEMi BY-

_PER

IN/UNIT NOTIFIED

iF COPY

and a!r-1t

1SS0S1O1IL0.

RF . FILE.

18g.

IOTS: COPIES.

SECRET

_-----

RUY UN

REPRODUCTION

ISSUING

BY

OTHER TH::

OFFICE IS PROMIBITED

STAFF

VR

HON A

987395

E1A767

PAGE B,4÷04

TOR: 082242Z JUN

76

.... -

IN

| 944357

6.

FILE:

SECR'E.T.:

/ NW 65990 Docld:32396533 Page 6

---

