# DOCID-32423829

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/24/201

AGENCY: ARMY

RECORD NUMBER :

198-10006-10014

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

CALIFANO PAPERS

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO:

TITLE:

CIA

56000 Dater 11-04-2021

CIA INTELLIGENCE ANNEX

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

00/00/1963

5

CUBAN PROPAGANDA

LATIN AMERICA

TRAVEL TO CUBA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 4

•CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 02/06/1998

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS :

Califano Papers, Box 4, Folder 6. Intelligence report outlining travel to and the movement of

propaganda from Cuba.

JFK Revied

Authortty_

I Refer To

v9.1

NW 66000 Docld:32423829 Page 1

11

---

## Page 2

from autonatial

grading and

declassification

SECRET

ANNEX

CIA Intelligence Annex

1. Travel to and from Cuba

Braz11

Chartered Cubana Airlines flights between Cuba and

Brazil have becone a major means of transporting nou-Guban

Latin Americans to and from Cuba.

The five such

flights since

late July have carried nearly 400 non-Cubans.

The first of the recent sertes - on 25 July . brought

71 Latin American passengers to Mavana for the 26 July celebra-

tions.

The other four flights -= on 15, 22, 28 and 29 August •

transported over 200 Latio Americans to

• Brazil fron Hevana.

Some of the aircraft Involved returned to Cuba with smaller

munbers of passengere, Many of the 200 Latin American passengers

had been delegates to the 26 July ceremontes, but others had

apparently been ta Cuba for longer periods and some had probably

received training there. Of the passengers on these four flights

to Brazil, 75 were natives of Caribbean area countries. Their

circuitous traval through Brazil was evidently designed to help

conceal the fact that they had been in Cuba.

Costa Rica

Two Costa Ricans were among the passengere on a

chartered Cubana plane which was turned back to Mavana at Grand

Caynan Ón 11 July 1963. One vas Luz Marine Hernandez Salazar,

the only Costa Ricen wonan known to have been sent to Cuba for

training as a guerrilla warfare intructor.

She had been in

Cuba since Septenber 1962.

The other Costa Rican passenger was

Carlos Guillen, forner head of the Costa Rican Society of

Friends of the

Cuban Revolucion, who had been la Cuba since

Novenber 1962.

3048001

The CIA Station In Quito reports that the military

junta, which ossumed power in Ecuador on 11 July, can be expected

SECRET

NW 66000 Docld:32423829 Page 2

---

## Page 3

SEOKEY

-2-

to follow the guidance of the Embassy and the Station In

controlling travel to and from Cuba and the Soviet bloc.

The

activicles of Cuban subversives in Ecuador, at least for the

present, have been greatly inhibited by the mass arreats of

Commmiete and pro-Cubans and by the outlawing of the Communiet

Party by the junta.

Hondurag

It le reported that the Honduran Conunist Fazty has

lesued orders to its members not to atcempt to travel to Cuba

at the present time.

This action is apparently the result of

the increasing vigilance of the Honduran goverment and

the

greater implementation of stricter travel controle.

2.

Movenent of. Cuban Propagende

Cuatema la

Aecording to an unconfimed report received in July,

a Bureau of Information of the Communiet Party of Custenala 1s

being forned in collaboration with Prenes lating and le to be

managed clandestinely.

It expocte to receive news by shortwave

radio fron Cuba and print bulletins for discribution by radio

stations, This may Indicate a pattern by which Frensa

Lotina

vill atteupt to distribute on a moze clandestine basia

In other

areas in Latin Anerlos.

Honduras

It was rollably reported that in mid-July 1965, a

anall coastal freighter landed 14 large boxes of Communiat

propagands on the northern coast of Mondurae, the boxes having

been tronstorred at sea fron a larger vessel.

3.

Movenent of Guerrillas and Ame

Angentina

Extreniot members of the Peroniot Party, epparently

under the Leadership of euch figures an Hector Villalon and

John William Cooke, are apparently receiving ancouragement and

promises of large suns of money fron Cuba in support of theix

offorts to train and organize subversive groups in Argentina.

SECRET

NW 66000 Docld:32423829 Page 3

---

## Page 4

SUCKEL

Villelon his stated that his plan callo for expending and

accellerating subversive activisies in Argentina cullaating

In a complete take over within two years. Thore is no Indica-

clon that Peron himself hao agreed co chis plan. It has been

reported that leaders of the Commist Party of Argontina have

been greatly annoyed by the tendency of the Castro regime to

support the revolutionary Peronists without having consulted

- the Conmunist Party of Argentina.

It is reported that the ao-called Army of fletional

Liberation (AlL) of Argentina, which 1e a relativaly small

Gastrolst organtzation directed fron Cuba by John Willlan Cooke,

hao in recent weeks been negotiating for the purchase of arme

and has been offered aubmachine guns,

by two or three private supplers. It sue reported, however,

that the ANt was having difficulty getting enough dollare from

a avane arena

bazookas and other weapong

Cuba

to make signiffcant purchases possible.

Bolivie

The Bolivian Mindotsy of Foraign Relatione on 23

August protested formally to the Cuban Charge d'Alfaire in

La Pas agalast the Cuban Inbasay support to the miners during

the recent crisis.

Subsequently, hovever, Foreige miniscer

Fellman intormed the Cuban Charge that he need not. foor that

the Coverent of Bolivia would break diplomatic relations with

Cuba.

There has, in fact, been no hard information linking the

Cuban Babassy with the present mining crists in spite of some

uncontined reporte of Cuban support.

Cuban Ambassador to Brazil, Raul Ron Kourt, 1e reported

to bave attempted to encouzage peasant league leader

• Francisco

Jultao to sevitalize the lesgues in northern Brazil. According

to some reporte efforto are being made to unity the leadership

and bring dissident elemente under the general direction of

" Jaltao,

Other reports indicate that, although the Cuban Embassy

1s providing guidance and possibly financial support to the

movement, It had not yet resolved the intemal dissension in

the leagues.

Colo bra

SECRET

NW 66000 Docld:32423829 Page 4

---

## Page 5

SECRET

sipa

ColombLa

From Colombia reports have been received of increasing

Guben assiotance, primarily in the form of training coursee by

instructore to have been trained in cuba, to the Worker-student-

Poasant: Movement (MORC). A anall guerrillo band encounterod

by the Colomblan army ta July 1963 wan broken up when five

members of the band were hilled and two others captured. A

suall quantity of arus and a conalderable amount of books and

pamphlete on revolutionary misfaze, photographe of Vidal Castro,

Camilo Confuegos and Mao ITse-tung»

, and bulletins of the MOEC

were found at the camp eite.

Mecent reports have indicated an

Increase in the terroriat efforte of the NORC and increased

pronises of asctetance fron Ghe Guevaza with regard to the

training of adalcional MORC members.

Costa Rica

In nid-July an incrensed mmber of guerrillas were

reportedly being trained in Costa Rica by Adolfo Garcia Barberene,

vell-krom Nicaraguan revoluttonary leader and member of the

FLI (Mattonal Liberation Front » a Comunist-doninated, Cuban»

supported, anti-Nicaragua revolutionazy group). "In early

August, Alberto Serzato, leader of the FLII in Costa Rica,

loit

with s

group of Nicaraguans for the Costa Rican-Nicaraguan

border.

The purchase of erns and supplies and the recruitent

of Nicaraguans for a movement againot Nicaragua are also reportedly

underway in Costa Rica.

Moctor Bogantes Zenora, Costa Riean agitator, left Sen Jose

In mid-August for the Micaraguan border to supervise the passage

of NIcaraguan guerrillas from Costa Rica into Nicaragua.

Bogantes, who recently retumed from attending the May Day

celebratione in Cuba,

was assigned this responsibility by the

Costa Rican Communist Party:

Honduzas

'The Honduman armed forces began to move against a group

of pro-Castro guerrillas operating against the Nicaraguan Govern-

ment and active in the vicinity of the Nicaraguan-Honduran berder.

The Nicaraguan National Guard has been conducting operations

on ice side of the border against the insurgente alnco July.

The dense jungle and diffleult terrain, however, will impede the

efforco of both forces to eliminate the guerzillas.

NW 66000 Docld:32423829 Page 5

---

## Page 6

SECRET

-Ba.

Information on the guerrilla force is scanty and

conflicting.

It is apparently composed of members of the National

Liberation Front (FIN), a Communist-doulnated and Cuban-supported

revolutionary organization active primarily in Honduras and

Nicaragua since the fall of 1962. The strength of the fozce

1s not known.

Lacerague

A captured guerrilla of the PLI (Mational Liberation

Frent - a Comunist-dominated, Cuban-supported, anti-Mcaraguan

group) confessed that he was a member of a group of 46 who

entered Moaxagua from Monduvas on 22 July. He sala that chels

mission was

to establish a base camp in the Isabella mountaine,

Department of Jinotega, in order to indoctrinate the peasante

and to train them in guerrilla tactics. He admitted that he

had

received six months' guerrilla warfare training in Cuba and

that other FLI leaders had received similar training. He aleo

said thet the FLN training camp in Hondures was near El lagarte,

on the Patuca River.

4. Transfer of Puads

British Cutana

In British Culana,

Guiana Import-Export Corporation

(Gimpes) received a one miltion dollar advance paynent deposited

by the Cuban Alimpex Corporation for goods to be delivered to

Cuba in the future.

Gimper has, in tum, loaned this money to

the Government of British Guiana. Cheddi Jagan"a People's

Progressive Party is the major stockholder in Gimpex.

Mohenned

Kassim, Manager of Gimper, has indicated that Gimpes will be

able to sacure adáitional loans fron Cuba in amounto sufficient

to tide the Jagan goveranent over any foreseeable crisis. It

was also reported that Cirpes plans to buy aircraft, spare parts

and other machinery in the United States

for reshipment to Cuba.

General

Reports continue to be received

from many places indicating

that the suitcase full of currency la still one of the most

common methods used by the Cubans for transmitting funds for

use in supporting subversive activities throughout the hensphere.

Instences where such funds have been confiscated by the police

have occurred recently in El Salvador, Panana and Ecuador.

NW 66000 Docld:32423829 Page 6

---

