# DOCID-32395405

## Page 1

Date: 02/16/05

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD

NUMBER: 104-10438-10122

RECORD

SERIES

: JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

: RUSS HOLMES WORK FILE

DOCUMENT INFORMATION.

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM

TO

TITLE

REPORT: LEADS INVESTIGATED BY CIA. THIS LIST DOES NOT

INCLUDE DISSEMINATIONS OR MEMORANDA

DATE : 01/01/1900

PAGES: 29 30

SUBJECTS : UGARTE

DURAN, SILVIA

DOCUMENT TYPE

PAPER

CLASSIFICATION

UNCLASSIFIED

RESTRICTIONS

1B

CURRENT STATUS

RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 11/25/98

• COMMENTS

:JFK-RH06: F114: 1998.11.25.07:20:07:700129 :

CORRECTED TO 29 PAGES VICE 31.

Heleased under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

55990 Date: 11-01-2021

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10438-10122

NW 65990 Docld:32395405 Page 1

---

## Page 2

65990

cld:32395405

Page 2

- DESCRIPTION OF DOCUMENT -

(A)

(B)

- RECIPIENT(S) -

26 November 1963

DIR 85069

Subject: Travel of Pro-Communist Costa Rican

Congressman to Texas on 26 November 1963.

"A usually reliable source reported on 26 November 1963, that Julio SUNOL

bon he world need conterone a a in he and it Nardonal 153 ab:

for Poland 24

November to at-

parture and now plans to leave San Jose 26 November.

SUNOL delayed his de-

"Representatives of this Agency in Costa Rica suspect that SUNOL will try

to gather data in Texas

te cathedate Texas no use de present cente propaganda in con-

26 November 1963 DIR 85176

Subject: Marina Nikolaeva OSWALD.

"The following information on Marina Nikolaeva OSWALD, wife of Lee Harvey

OSWALD, was volunteered by Moroccan student Mohammed

REGGAB: born on 3

January 1938 in Safi, Morocco.

REGGAB is now living at Nueenbergerstr.

19, West Berlin.

REGGAB was a student at the Moscow Institute of Cine-

matography from September 1960 to April 1962. He came to Berlin in April

1963 as. a student and on 26 November colunteered the following informa-

tion on Mrs. OSWALD, who had been one of his girl friends in Mescow.

dont die heads 565 pote on Behift te nau, Marina, which

*Portaß makes a favorable impression and is available for further ques-

26 November 1963

DIR 85177

Subject:

Telecon between Cuban President

DORTICOS and Joaquin HERNANDEZ Armas.

"Following is account of telephone conversation between Cuban President

Osvaldo DORTICOS in Havana and Joaquin HERNANDEZ Armas, Cuban Ambassador

to Mexico in Mexico City at 0940 hours Mexico City Time on 26 November

as reported

from sensitive source."

(See Chronological Summary on

Silvia Tirado de DURAN.)

FBI

FBI, State, White

House, Secret Service

- 1 -

---

## Page 3

NWV

: 65990

D

cld:32395405

Page 3

- DESCRIPTION OF DOCUMENT -

(A)

(B)

- RECIPIENT(S) -

27 November 1963

CSCI -3/778,881

Subject:

Lee H. OSWALD/Soviet Activities in

Mexico City, 18 - 24 November 1963.

Forwarded as Attachment A is a resume of the observed activities of

Valeriy Vladimirovich KOSTIKOV and Ivan Gavrilovich ALFERIEV as reported

by a reliable source in Mexico City.

Attention was given to KOSTIKOV

because of the indication that he is the consul who interviewed OSWALD

on 28 September 1963 . . .

• ALFERIEV travelled with KOSTIKOV to nor-

thern Mexico during the early part of September 1963.

Source reported

that during the period under review the observed activities of KOSTIKOV

and ALFERIEV appeared to be normal, as did the activities of the entire

Soviet Embassy complement.

Forwarded as Attachment B is a resume of telephone calls placed to

and from the Soviet Embassy on the afternoon of 22 November.

Analysis of

calls made the morning of 22 November and the morning and afternoon of 23

November revealed no pertinent information."

27 November 1963

DIR 85182

Subject: Lee H. OSWALD.

"2. On. 23 November 1963, Richard Thomas GIBSON, who was acquainted with

Lee Harvey OSWALD, made

the following statements to a close friend in

Bern, Switzerland:

"OSWALD is 'one of us'.

-

Play for Cuba Committee) •

OSWALD is crazy.

GIBSON burned all of his

correspondence with OSWALD.

GIBSON is glad

that he (GIBSON) is not

in New York now and he feels sorry for 'Lee' who is in New York and

'Tibor'.

According to other information available to our representative in

Bern, Richard

13 May 1931 in Los Angele is a negro

California,

Journalist and has been

active in the Fair Play for Cuba Committee since

its organization in 1960.

In Switzerland he has been involved in the

publication La Revolution Africaine."

FBI

FBI, State, White

House, Secret Service

[Warren Commission]

- 2 -

---

## Page 4

NW

' 65990

DI

pcld:32395405

Page 4

- DESCRIPTION OF DOCUMENT -

(A)

(B)

26 November 1963

DIR 85246

Subject: Lee H. OSWALD.

"On 26 November, Dr. Jose Guillermo AGUIRRE of Mexico told the following

information

to Peter MORAGA, United States Information Service officer in

Mexico City:

USIS

Son-in-law is a Cuban who lives at 212 Jefferson

Vernon 5-9658.

Arnesto RODRIGUEZ runS

is anti-Castro.

and has at pes conversation ath OsAL driaguez de LOPEZ her son-in-

27 November 1963

Blind Memorandum Subject: Yurly Vladimirovich KOSTIKOV.

"After examining

reasonable doubt that he is a staff officer

Contributing

the TUMBLEWEED operation.

"KOSTIKOV's involvement in TUMBLEWEED is our only reason to believe that

he is connected with the 13th Department.

KOSTIKOV was in clandestine

contact with TUMBLEWEED (as definitely confirmed by TUMBLEWEED's photo

identification) and arranged TUMBLEWEED's contact in the U.S. with a KGB

colleague of KOSTIMOV's."

28 November 1963

DIR 85657

Subject: None given.

"On 26 November 1963 a British journalist named John WILSON, and also

visited Cuba around 1959.

WILSON himself was working in Cuba at the

time and was jailed by Castro before he was deported.

USEMB

London

indictments outstanding against him. Instead he preferred to live in

- 3 -

- RECIPIENT(S) -

FBI, State, White

House, Secret Service

FBI

FBI, State, White

House

---

## Page 5

NWV

65990

D

R

cld:32395405

Page 5

- DESCRIPTION OF DOCUMENT -

(A)

relative luxury in a Cuban prison. While SANTOS was in prison, WILSON

says, SANTOS was

visited frequently by an American gangster-type named

His story is being followed up.

WILSON says he had onee testi-

about Castro activities

before the Eastland Committee of the U.S.

Senate, sometime in 1959 or 1960."

28 November 1963.

DIR

85665

Subject: None

given.

"Our Station in The Hague has reported

that on 23 November 1963,

Castroite named Maria SNETHLAGE talked to Third Secretary Ricardo SANTOS

of the Cuban Embassy

in The Hague and said that she knew the

'Mr. LEE'

[sic who murdered President Kennedy.

She characterized 'LEE' as a man

full of hate and violence, and speculated that he had been 'misused by a

She said she had

written to GIBSON (undoubtedly Richard GIBSON,

group citizo had visiod the nether and race and as in contace sen

Maria SNETHLAGE talked again to Third Secretary

"Later on 23 NovembeTiur. LEE of the Fair Play for Cuba Committee' had

SANTOS and said that

'named Lee OSWALD', who had done

SNETHLAGE

and again in

May 1963.

"Dutch authorities have informed us that on 7 November, ANTOS had

in talking about

attacks by Cuban refugees against the Cuban mainland,

'just wait and you will see what we can do.

It will happen soon'.

to be more precise, SANTOS had replied 'just wait. just wait'. SANTOS is

reported to have a pro-Castro brother in the U.S.A.

"A very sensitive source reports that after his conversations with SNETH-

LAGE, SANSOS was furious because she had not contacted him."

28 November 1963

DIR 85676

Subject: Travel of Soviet Diplomatic Couriers.

"1. Reference is made to your teletype of 8 November 1963 concerning the

travel to Mexico of Soviet diplomatic

couriers Valentin Germanovich

PONOMAREV and Aleksey. Nikolayevich POPKOV.

(B)

- RECIPIENT(S) -

House, ate, unservice

(Warren Commission]

ERT

FBI

---

## Page 6

NW

65990

D

ecld:32395405

Page 6

- DESCRIPTION OF DOCUMENT -

(A)

(B)

left Mexico

According to our representative in Mexico City' 465 and returned to

PONOMAREV and POPKOV

City for Cuba on 12 November via Cubana

Mexico City on 18 November via Cubana.

A usually reliable and sensitive source reported that they probably

23 November via Aeronaves Flt 451.

source reported that one 'ANANYEV' (phonetic) of the Soviet Consulate

in New York contacted the Soviet Embassy in Mexico City on 23 November and

requested information on which flight the couriers were taking.

Assistant

Consul Valeriy Vladimirovich KOSTIKOV

of the Soviet Embassy in Mexico City „Provided the information on behalf

29 November 1963

DIR 85691

Subject: None given.

Your attention is called to a series of anonymous telephone calls

the late President Kennedy. Our first record of this matter is a Naval

Attache cable from Canberra sent on 24 November 1963.

"8. Australian authorities working on this case consider the called to be

They state that Soviet offices in Australia do not use anything

but Soviet chauffeurs; they have no record of their using a Polish chau-

They are continuing their investigation."

29 November 1963

DIR- 85715

Subject: Travel of Lee Harvey OSWALD.

Information gathered from various foreign sources regarding the travel

of Lee Harvey OSWALD and his

wife in 1959 and 1962.

29 November 1963

DIR 85770

Subject: None given.

Navy

Army

Headquarters Company,

scheduled for a psychiatric examination that same day.

entered Switzerland using a false Army identification card with forged

travel orders.

- 5 -

- RECIPIENT(S) -

Hou stater et stevice

Fuse, ate, service

---

## Page 7

NWV

65990

D

gcld:32395405

Page 7

- DESCRIPTION OF DOCUMENT -

(A)

(B)

- RECIPIENT(S) -

On 6 and 7 November 1963 he appeared in the Press Room of United

Nations Office in Geneva and told reporters

also wished to alert the world to the U. S. Government

hovers being persecute can-

meteor or concent de voluntarily returned to his unit in

Around 26 November 1963, after President Kennedy had been assassina-

ted, a Geneva journalist named Alex des FONTAINES, stringer for Time-Life

correspondent for Radio Canada, was reported to be filing a story to

'they' were plotting against Presi-

dent Kennedy and that 'something' would happen in

FONTAINES

had been prompted to do this by an unidentified female reporter who had

recalled such statements by DINKIN; des FONTAINES thought he recalled he

them, he filed the story just to be sure.

All aspects of this story were known,

as reported above, by U.S.

military authorities and have been reported by military attache cable

through military channels."

30 November 1963 "CSCI-3/778,894

Subject: Lee H. OSWALD.

Attached is an article which appeared on page 2 of the 29 November

1963 issue of the Washington Daily News.

The article contains informa-

tion which implies that two persons might have been involved in the as-

sassination of President Kennedy. . . .

• The Washington Daily News article also states that the full-page

"2. placed in The Dallas Morning News on 22 November] which presumably

cost $1250.00 was placed by Bernard WEISSMAN, that he paid cash for

the ad, and that WEISSMAN resided in Dallas at

a small apartment house.

The article indicates... that he roomed with one William BURLEY, • . •

The records

of this office contain information about one Bill BURLEY,

a U.S. Air Force

invor Force Tata Sous activitats.

stationed in Libia in 1958 who may have

You are referred to the Office of

Special Investigations, USAF, for possible additional information.

. - 6 -

FBI

---

## Page 8

NW

65990

D

ocld:32395405

Page 8

- DESCRIPTION OF DOCUMENT -

(A)

(B)

- RECIPIENT(S) -

14.

Our information indicates that BURLEY had contact with [foreign]

persons whose activities seem to have been questionable. . ..

The above information is provided as a result of a preliminary check

of our records.

The records of this office contain no additional

informa-

tion which at this time can be identified as pertaining

the persons who

might be identical with the men who placed the newspaper ad, or to persons

who might have been in contact with them."

December 1963

DIR

86496

Subject: Lee Harvey OSWALD.

"On the question of why Lee OSWALD felt that he could not get his Mexican

visa extended without using his real name, the following may be germane:

Mexican immigration records checked by the U.S. Consulate in Nuevo Laredo

and reported

through the U.S. Embassy

to both out office and yours,.

that Lee OSWALD entered Mexico on 26 September 1963 using the name HARVEY

OSWALD LEE.

It may be that OSWALD feared that any attempt to extend his

visa would result in discovery that he was in the country under a false

name; he might have had to show some identification to get the visa exten-

and he probably had no documentation in the name of HARVEY OSWALD

FBI

4 December 1963

DIR 86702

Subject: Lee Harvey OSWALD.

"Records of the Foreigners Records Office of the German Federal Republic

in Cologne, Germany, show that Marina Nikolayevna PUSAKOVA OSWALD crossed

West Germany from East Germany to Holland on 3 June 1962. She traveled

Holland by rast at the wenthem nost pained she awest enter visa

694/62 issued at the West German Embassy in Moscow. She listed her final

destination as U.S.A. Comment: This confirms information from the U.S.

Embassy in Moscow to the effect that the OSWALD family traveled from Mes-

cow to Rotterdam by rail around 3 June 1962. Helmstedt and Bentheim are

on the main rail route from Russia to Rotterdam. While Lee OSWALD himself

and their infant daughter are not recorded in German records this probably

because little attention is paid to U.S. citizens and to infants in keep-

FBI, State, White

House, Secret Service

[Warren Commissionl

- 7 -

---

## Page 9

NW

65990

D

@cld:32395405

Page 9

- DESCRIPTION OF DOCUMENT =

(A)

(B)

- RECIPIENT(S) -

FBI, State, White

House

5 December 1963

DIR 87189

Subject: None given.

officer

We have learned that on 3 December 1963, In Known Soviet intelligence

in New Delhi, India,

communists, attempted

to have a number of telegrams sent to President JOHNSON,.

Chief Justice

WARREN, and Attorney General KENNEDY from Indian youth,

and other

demanding a

full probe into the assassination of President John F.

Kennedy•

Apparently the Soviet officer undertook to pay for all

the tele-

grams; he said the whole scheme was based on 'orders from Moscow'-

Note:

To check on this story and to detect similar activity from

othes prech haves fence could appreciate receiving data on any such tele-

6 December 1963

DIR 87520

Subject: Lee Harvey OSWALD.

"Reference is made to our OUT Telegram no. 86702 of 4 December 1963 which

gave information on the travel of Marina OSWALD (and presumably also Lee

Harvey OSWALD and their daughter) across West Germany on their return

from the Soviet Union.

Information now available from Dutch authorities

poshin Cont onora gho other and ay in at the olden at border

It is believed that the listing of this person as a male

instead of female was just an error of the border officials.

Note that

Oldenzaal is opposite Bentheim, the German border point where Marina

OSWALD beft Germany."

9 December

1963

• DIR 87731

Subject:

Richard BEYMER, American Movie Actor,

in Touch with Cuban Embassy, Mexico City.

The Metico City News of 5 December 1963 carried a picture of Richard

American movie actor, who was a delegate to the Film Festival bei

BEYMER was in touch with the Cuban Embassy in Mexico City on 2 Decem-

be November:

and a person believed to be BEYMER was in touch with the Embassy on

He wanted to speak to Silvia DURAN, who was not at the Em-

Another employee told him that no reply had been received from

- 8-

FBI

---

## Page 10

65990

Docld:32395405

Page 10

- DESCRIPTION OF DOCUMENT :

(A)

(B)

- RECIPIENT(S) -

"3. This office has no information on BEYMER.

"4.

DURAN is the Mexican employee of the Cuban Embassy with whom Lee H.

OSWALD waS

in touch regarding a visa for Cuba.

"5..

This information is for your use only and may not be disseminated

without permission from

this

Agency."

9 December 1963

DIR 87796

Subject: None given:

"1. The American Embassy in Stockholm, Sweden, has received a letter

mailed 25 November 1963 in Stockholm

alleging

that the assassination of

President Kennedy was arranged by the Red Chinese.

The letter purports

to be from one

Ryo Liang Yuan of the Red Chinese

Embassy in Stockholm,

but no such official is assigned there and there is no record of Chinese

official by this name anywhere abroad.

"2. The letter is written in broken English and stated that the Chinese

communists got in contact with OSWALD when he was in the Soviet Union.

When OSWALD returned to the U.S.A., the Red Chinese re-contacted him,

head that the do to head not con ta lea

The Red Chinese ex-

would attack Cuba when it learned that the assassin

was a Cuban sympathizer.

The Soviets would then attack the U.s:A., the

Red Chinese would ask the Soviets for atomic weapons,

the Communist Bloc

would win the war, the Chinese Reds would then assassinate KHRUSHCHEV and

take over control.

i. The writer said he worked for the 'Department

of State Secret', but

no department by this name is known in the Chinese

Communist Government.

Our Station in Stockholm judges this to be a crank letter. The original

letter is being sent here for analysis."

11 December 1963 TDCSDB-3/658,408 Subject: Comments of Soviet Official regarding

I. Moscow Views on International

Situation fol-

lowing Death of President Kennedy; 2.

tion of Disarmament Talks.

"The Soviet official was recently on a trip home and returned from Moscow

FBI, State, White

House, Secret Service

(Warren Commission]

Full dissemination

---

## Page 11

NW

65990

ecld:32395405

Page

11

- DESCRIPTION OF DOCUMENT

(A)

(B)

- RECIPIENT(S) -

to Geneva about the end of November.

When source, who has previously dis-

cussed political topics with him, asked about the

reaction in Moscow to

the death of President Kennedy the Soviet official immediately launched

into lengthy commentary.

It may be that subsource's ready responses and

apparent spontaneity resulted from a repition of widely held views.

considering his position it seems more likely that his comments were

intended for western consumption."

12 December 1963

CSCI-3/779,048

Subject: WILSON, Carlos John with aliases.

Compilation of information from Agency files regarding Carlos John WILSON

also

known as John

WILSON-HUDSON and John Hudson WILSON.

FBI

12 December 1963

DIR 88643

Assassination of President Kennedy

Subject Assassin ade dementatic

Presidents.

An undated letter, sent to U.S. Ambassador Raymon TELLES, U.S. Em-

to the assassination of President

bashy an so one for de che Tate Rodrigo re Lan if

the democratic world.

'Rodrigo C.", identifies

himself as

a Costa Rican of Marxist-Leninist ideals, whose assignment is

the assassination of President ORLICH of Costa Rica and Foreign Minister

ODUBER of Costa Rica.

The anvelope in which the letter arrived is post-

marked 28 November 1963, from Heredia, Costa Rica.

The letter is believed

to be the work of a crank."

16 December 1963

CSCI-3/779,135

Subject: Peter DERYABIN's Comments on the

Kennedy Assassination.

Attached for your perusal are the written comments of KGB defector

Peter DERYABIN on some aspects of the assassination of President John F.:

Kennedy.

As you know, DERYABIN defected from the KGB about ten years ago,

with Soviet intelligence developments to the

comments on how Lee OSWALD and his wife must have been handled by Soviet

intelligence authorities while they were inside the Soviet Union are par-

• 10 -

FBI, State, White

House [Warren Com-

mission]

FBI

---

## Page 12

NWV

65990

Dpcld:32395405

Page

12

- DESCRIPTION OF DOCUMENT -

(A)

(B)

- RECIPIENT(S) -

ticularly interesting and his suggestions for the questioning of Mrs.

Marina OSWALD are equally provocative.

We have decided to pass on his views without editing, and this Agency

specifically endorse his conclusions

recommendations.

18 December 1963

DIR 89970

Subject:

Lee OSWALD Case.

"Reference is made to our OUT Telegram no. 85182 of 27 November 1963.

Richard Thomas! GIBSON, U.S. citizen who was once associated with

Play for Cuba Committee in

New York was interviewed in early December 1963

by a U.S. Consular officer in Paris, France, to see if he had information

on Lee OSWALD.

GIBSON said he had

never known any one by that name

mentioned the following two possibilities:

"GIBSON was very cooperative and said his association with the publication

'Revolution' was for purely economic reasons."

27 December 1963

CSCI-3/779,297 Subject: Assassination of President Kennedy.

Reference is made to a report passed by a field office of this Agency

to your office in Miami on 7 December 1963, stating that the assassination

of President Kennedy had been arranged in Cuba by the Cuban government and

the Chinese communists.

Ramon B. CORTES, Fernandez FETTO

the report is still seriously in doubt.

According to him

Isourcel, the statements about the assassination being a Cuban and Chinese

communist plot were made by one Raul SAAVEDRA; who he

says is a high Cuban

government official.

We have not yet been able to identify him. ...

We have not been in direct physical contact with our source since his

initial report on this topic.

As soon as we can talk to him personally,

we will try to get more information, but we doubt whether this can be ar-

ranged in the near future.. We wish

to point out that this source has in

past produced several reports of a

sensational nature which turned out

to be untrue.

We do not believe he deliberately submitted false informa-

-11 -

FBI, State, White

House, Secret Service

[Warren Commission]

FBI

---

## Page 13

NWV

65990

D

@cld:32395405

Page 13

- DESCRIPTION OF DOCUMENT

(A)

(B)

- RECIPIENT(S) -

tion, but he appears to be unable in some

Cases

to evaluate information

properly."

27 January

1964. CSCI-3/779,729

Subject: The Assassination of President Kennedy

"1.

In connection with our efforts to check possible relatives of Marina

Nikolayevna

OSWALD, nee PRUSAKOVA, widow of the suspected assassin of

President KENNEDY, Lee Harvey OSWALD, our attention was drawn to one

Lyudmila Nikolayevna PRUSAKOVA, who was one of 28 Soviet students invited

by the Scotish Union of Students to visit England as tourists in May 1960.

A visa application competed by PRUSAKOVA on 17 March 1960, copy of which

has been acquired from the British internal services, disclosed the fol-

lowing background information:

While there is no indication that PRUSAKOVA is related to Marina

Nikolayevna OSWALD, your Bureau may wish to discuss this information with

Marina OSWALD because of such possibility. In the event that PRUSAKOVA is

related to (or known to) Marina OSWALD, we would appreciate being so ad-

vised."

30 January 1964

FBI

CSCI-3/779,814

Subject:

Jack L. RUBY, Lee Harvey OSWALD -

Victim Civil Rights.

Reference is made to your memorandum of 7. January 1964, subject as

above, concerning a report

of a visit to Cuba in early 1963

by Jack

This Agency has received a simi-

lar report from a

1962 or in early

vidual could verify the above information?

Our source stated that following indi-

"Evidio Bernardo PEREIRA Acosta . .

• (whose) address as of

September 1963 was 821 SW 2nd Street, Miami, Florida.

"2. We suggest that your Bureau may peefer to interview PEREIRA Acosta:

We would appreciate receiving the results of your interview of

PEREIRA Acosta.

Your Bureau will be advised in the event we receive fur-

ther information relating to this matter."

FBI

- 12 -

---

## Page 14

NW 65990

Qcld:32395405

Page 14

- DESCRIPTION OF DOCUMENT -

(A)

(B)

4 February 11964

CSCI-3/779,817 Subject: Lee Harvey OSWALD.

1963, your file (5) 105-82555, sub agency.

In response to your communication, DL 100-10461, dated 31 December

the requested

information from the files of

This information covers names,

addresses, and telephone numbers relating

to the Soviet Union."

14 February 1964

CSCI-3/779,988

Subject: Lee

Harvey OSWALD.

Subsequent to the preparation of our CSCI-3/779,817, dated 4 February

1964, subject

as above, in response

to your communication

dated 31 December 1963, file number (S) 105-82555, additional information

on the subject has come to our attention.

This information was received

from your office in your communication DBA 59901, dated 20 December

It is repeated below for the convenience of your personnel involved in the

OSWALD case. ... ."

18 February 1964

Subject:

Federal Bureau of Investigatiobil

[DDP

Your memorandum dated 6 December 1963, file DL 100-10461, •

lists 47 photographs which were among the effects

of Lee

Harvey OSWALD,

and made available to your Bureau by ... of the Dallas Police Depart-

It appears that most of

the photographs were taken in

USSR and depict Soviet contacts of OSWALD or scenes in the Soviet Union.

In connection with our efforts to assist the President's Commission

on the Assassination of President Kennedy by providing

information which

might be helpful in interpreting available materials relating to OSWALD's

activities abroad, we would appreciate receiving at your earliest conven-

ience one copy of

each of these photographs, or exemplars, from which we

can make copies.

18 February 1964

Memorandum for Mr. Thomas L. HUGHES, The Director of Intelligence

and Research, Department of State.

Subject: Assassination of President John F. Kennedy - Verification of

- 13. -

FBI

FBI

- RECIPIENT(S) -

FBI

FBI

FBI, Warren Com-

mission

FBI,

State, Warren

Commission

---

## Page 15

65990

Dgcld:32395405

Page

15

- DESCRIPTION OF DOCUMENT -

(A)

(B)

Entry in 'Historic Diary".

[DDP 4- 0864]

• In a document entitled 'Historic Diary' there appears an entry

which refers

to 'an elderly American'.

The entry is under the date 26

October

1959 when OSWALD was allegedly confined in an unidentified Moscow

hospital.

It is apparent that every effort should be made to iden-

tify the elderly American, if he existed.

We assume the lead is

still outstanding.

our recommendation that the Department of state

urgently request through its channels a careful search of Embassy and Con-

sular records

American hospita Mode the end be revole do and possibly elsastered

with the Embassy as a tourist. An independent confirmation of this de-

'Historic Diary'

information on OSWALD's stay in the USSR."

19 February 1964

Subiect:

Cuban Consulate and

Reference is made to your letter of 10 February 1964, relative to in-

formation supplied by this Agency on the activities of Lee Harvey OSWALD

in Mexico City . ..

We surmise that the reference in OSWALD's letter of 9 November to a

man who had since been replaced must refer to Cuban Consul Eusebio AZCUE,

who left Mexico for Cuba on permanent transfer on 18 November 1963, four

days before

the assassination.

AZCUE had been in Mexico

for eighteen

years and it was known (to us) as early as September 1963 that he was

be replaced.

His replacement did arrive in September.

AZCUE was schedu-

led to leave in October but did not leave until 18 November.

"4. We do not know who might have told OSWALD that AZCUE or any other

o some soviet or was to bent are tided seculate the splained about

AZCUE's altercation with him."

20 February 1964

CSCI-3/779,988

Subject: Lee Harvey OSWALD.

- 14 .

P.C.

FBI

- RECIPIENT(S) -

Warren Commission

FBI

---

## Page 16

NW

65990

DI

gcld:32395405

Page

16

- DESCRIPTION OF DOCUMENT -

(A)

(B)

- RECIPIENT(S) -

"2.

'Lev

SETYAEV -

Radio Moscow

1963, subject:

a report from your office dated 20 December

Lillie May RAHM, contains the following information:

Annette

(nee ZUGOFF)

worked for Radio Moscow; . . .

5 March 1964

Memorandum for Mr. J. Lee RANKIN, General Counsel etc.

Subject:

Summary of Findings in Regard to Allegations by Mohammed REGGAB

Relative to Marina OSWALD.

[DDP 4-11711

On 26 November 1963, Mohammed REGGAB, a Moroccan student in West Ber-

lin, made a statement that he could supply information on a

'Marina Niko-

lovna' who he asserted was

identical with Mrs. Marina OSWALD. The attach-

ment is a summary of our findings in regard to REGGAB's allegation.

report covers investigation including polygraphing in Berlin

and inquiries

conducted in Morocco during the period 26 November 1964 to 1 March 1964.

It is our conclusion that REGGAB's story of his acquaintance with

Mrs. Marina OSWALD is a fabrication."

20 March 1964

CSCI-3/780,612

Kennedy.

Subject: Assassination of President John F.

In the course of our research of files pertaining to areas of the

USSR in which Lee Harvey

OSWALD allegedly resided, a photograph of an in-

dividual closely resembling OSWALD was uncovered.'

Our files indicate that this photograph (Attachment A) came from a

color transparency taken

in Minsk, USSR,

on or about

11 August 1961., by

an American

tourist, Mrs. Monica F. KRAMER, whose address at the time was

P. 0. Box 985, Solvang, California.

Mrs. KRAMER and Miss NAMAN, both of whom are United States citizens,

contacted by this Agency on a one-time basis, following their return

from their tour of the USSR.

Mrs. KRAMER, .

.. furnished this Agency with 160 color transparen-

cies taken during the trip.

- 15 -

Warren Commission

Secret Service, FH

FBI

FBI

---

## Page 17

NUV

65990

Dg

cld:32395405

Page

17

- DESCRIPTION OF DOCUMENT -

(A)

(B)

- RECIPIENT(S) -

"9. This office would be interested in any pertinent information which

interviews of Mrs. KRAMER and Miss NAMAN by your office might possibly

provide . ..

27 March 1964

Memorandum for Mr. Thomas L. HUGHES, The Director of Intelligence

and Research, Department of State.

Subject:

Assassination of President John F. Kennedy - Verification of

Entry in "Historic Diary".

[DDP 4-1606]

We have received a report that the hospital to which OSWALD was taken

by soviet suthorities after the suicide attempt mentioned in his

'Historic

may have been the Botkinskaya Hospital in Moscow.

The 1958 and

1962 Moscow telephone directories for Organizations

Institutions,

a hospital named S. P. Botkina.

Our specialists advise that a native

Moscow would normally refer to this hospital as

the 'Botkinskaya'

said to be the hospital to which foreigners and diplomatic personnel are

the event of an emergency or serious illness, and the

for this purpose.

We would appreciate receiving information on any Americans who might

in the fall of 1959

that may be

State, Warren Com-

mission, FBI

31 March 1964

Subject:

Nikolevna OSWALD.

of Lee Harvey OSWALD and Marina

[DDP 4-1655]

"I. Reference is made to the second paragraph of your memorandum dated 12

February 1964, and the second paragraph of your memorandum of 16 March

1964, relativé to disseminations of information made by CIA to the Secret

Attached to this memorandum are exact copies of two teletyped messa-

ges relative to the travels and activities of the OSWALDs (Attachments A

In Attachment C, OUT Teletype no..

are found refer-

which describe one Richard Thomas GIBSON, . . . • Paraphrases of no.

85162 and no. 85665 are included as Attachments D and E."

- 16 -

Warren Commission

---

## Page 18

NWV

65990

D

gcld:32395405

Page 18

- DESCRIPTION OF DOCUMENT -

(A)

(B)

State

3 April 1964

Subject:

Memorandum for Mr. J. Lee RANKIN, General Counsel etc.

Richard Thomas GIBSON.

[DDP 4- 1699]

Attached to this memorandum is the exact text of OUT Teletype no.

dated 18 December 1963,

which contains the report of an interview

with GIBSON held by a U.S. consular officer in Paris.

This message was

disseminated to the White House,

Department of State, Federal Bureau of

Investigation, with a copy to the Secret Service."

7 April 1964

Memorandum for Mr. J. Lee RANKIN, General Counsel etc.

Subject: Mohammed REGGAB

[DDP 4-1786]

The CIA Station in Berlin has reported that, contrary to his prominot

REGGAB has not written since his return to Morocco, and apparently

come back to Berlin.

Knowledgeable sources which are usually reliable

that he has not returned to Berlin."

20 April 1964

Subject:

ERDINGER.

[DDP 4-1997]

We have studied the BND report forwarded by your letter of 26 March

A review of CIA files reflects no pertinent data on the principals

involved.

There is one report to the effect that Guenther GRONA (mentioned on

page 4 of the BND report) was under investigation in 1963 by West German

authorities.

radio station.

not reflected in CIA files.

his involvement in the matter being

considered, his activities are be-

lieved to have little or no bearing on the investigation."

24 April 1964

Subject:

Memorandum for Mr. J. Lee RANKIN, General Counsel etc.

Lydia DIMYTRUK; Acquaintance of

Marina OSWALD.

[DDP 4-2099]

- 17.-

P.C.

FBI

FBI

- RECIPIENT(S) -

Warren Commission

Warren Commission

Warren Commission

Warren Commission

---

## Page 19

NWV 65990

Dgcld:32395405

Page

19

- DESCRIPTION OF DOCUMENT -

(A)

(B)

Reference is made to the report of Special Agent Robert P. GEMBERLING

dated 30 November 1963, •

This communciation

by the FBI of Mr. George

A: BOUHE on 23 November 1963

reported

an interview

in which Mr. BOUHE

referred to a Lydia DIMYTRUK of Fort Worth, Texas, who allegedly had asso-

ciated with Marina N. OSWALD.

The files of this Agency contain the following pertinent information

one Lydia DYMITRUK who may be identical with the Lydia DIMYTRUK referred

to above:

28 April 1964

Russia.

CSCJ-3/780,996 Subject: Yuri Ivanovich NOSENKO, Espionage -

Reference is made to your memorandum dated 6 March 1964, subject as

in which you requested information which would

Harvey OSWALD.

Our files contain the following information from NOSENKO

on OSWALD which may amplify or contradict the information forwarded in

reference:

29 April 1964

Memorandum for Mr. J. Lee RANKIN, General Counsel etc.

Subject: Photograph of Lee Harvey OSWALD.

[DDP 4-2160]

As the result of a search of our graphics files for pictures perti-

nent to the story of Lee Harvey OSWALD's sojourn in the USSR, we

found the attached photograph (Attachment 'A') of a group of persons stan-

Although the persons

in the photograph are not identified in our files, we believe on the basis

of comparison with other pictures that the second

person from the right is

Lee Harvey OSWALD.

It is worth noting that the person believed to be OSWALD is rearing

a short-sleeved sport shirt of the same design or pattern as one worn by

Copies

photographs, which were found among OSWALD's effects after his

arrest and forwarded to

us by the Federal Bureau of Investigation, are

attached for comparison purposes.

- 18 -

FBI

- RECIPIENT(S) -

FBI

Warren Commission

FBI

---

## Page 20

NW

65990

Docld:32395405

Page 20

- DESCRIPTION OF DOCUMENT -

(A)

(B)

Attachment 'A' appears to substantitate OSWALD's presence in Minsk at

least during

the summer of 1961 and to indicate that he had contact at

least on one

occasion with American tourists visiting

that city, as he

once claimed in a letter to his brother, Robert OSWALD."

8 May 1964

Memonandum for Mr. J. Lee RANKIN, General Counsel etc.

Subject: Marina

OSWALD's Notebook.

[DDP 4-2351]

"Attached herewith is information from this Agency's files on the entries

in Marina

OSWALD's notebook, a copy of which was received from the Federal

Bureau of Investigation under their communication dated 13 April 1964.

Copies of this attachment have been forwarded to the Federal Bureau of In-

vestigation."

11 May 1964

CSCI-3/781,172

Subject: Lee Harvey OSWALD - Internal Security

Russia - Cuba.

response to your communication dated 13 April 1964, file number

For ate neat o the see an a wee reacted on an aarons

and telephone

numbers relating to the Soviet Union, which were extracted

book identified as belonging to Marina OSWALD."

15 May 1964

Subject:

cants; Reaction of that Service to the Assassination of President Kennedy.

with a well the ended who has been en see press contact

with ranking officers of the Cuban Direccion General de Intelligencia

(Directorate General for Intelligence - DGI). His knowledge of DGI activi

and personalities is direct and profound.

This Agency

his ere in de person pete contacts between Lee Harvey OSWALD

the DGI prior to the assassination of President Kennedy.

A report on

the information thus obtained is attached to this memorandum."

FBI

FBI

- 19 -

- RECIPIENT(S) -

Warren Commission

FBI

FBI, Warren Com-

mission

Warren Commission

FBI

---

## Page 21

NWV

65990

D

g.cld:32395405

Page 21

- DESCRIPTION OF DOCUMENT -

(A)

(B)

19 May 1964

Subject:

Memorandum for Mr. J. Lee RANKIN, General Counsel etc.

Allegations of Pfc Eugene B. DINKIN, U.S. Army, Relative

sassination Plot against President Kennedy.

[DDP 4-2534]

Reference is made to paragraph 2 of your memorandum, dated February

12, 1964, requesting that the Commission

be furnished copies of dissemina-

tions relative

the assassination of President Kennedy that were sent to

the Secret Service.

Immediately after the assassination the CIA Station in Geneva, Swit-

zerland, reported allegation concerning

a plot to assassinate President

RA-m 715 unit in Metz, France.

Available details of this charge, together

with information on its exploitation by Alex des FONTAINES, a Time-Life

stringer in Geneva,

were disseminated as OUT Teletype message no. 85770,

on 29 November 1963. This dissemination was sent to the White House,

Department of State, and Federal Bureau of Investigation, with a copy to

the Secret Service.

Since the Geneva Station cooperated with the U.S. Military Attache in

assembling information on this affair, and the Military Attache reported

through his channels, the Commission may have already received information

of PFC DINKIN's allegations.'

19 May 1964

CSCI -3/781,386

Subject: Paul DIMITRIK (aka Pavel DYMITRUK)

Reference is made to your communication of 1 May 1964 requesting tra-

ces on Paul DIMITRIK (aka Pavel DYMITRUK) .

"2. The files of this Agency contain the following pertinent information

on one Pavel DYMITRUK, born 28 February 1924 in Stariye-Derend, USSR, who

appears to be identical with Subject and his wife Lydia DYMITRUK:

22 May 1964

Memorandum for Mr. J. Lee RANKIN, General Counsel etc.

Subject:

Anonymous Telephone Calls to United States Embassy in Canberra,

Australia, Relative to Planned Assassination of President Kennedy.

IDDP 4-26247

- 20. -

Navy

Navy

- RECIPIENT(S) -

Warren Commission

Navy

Warren Commission

---

## Page 22

NW

65990

Di

ocld:32395405

Page 22

- DESCRIPTION OF DOCUMENT -

(A)

(B)

- RECIPIENT(S) -

I refer again to paragraph two of your memorandum, dated 12 February

1964, relative to disseminations to the Secret Service made by CIA.

On 24 November 1964, CIA received from the Department of the Navy

copy of a cable from the Naval Attache in Canberra, Australia IN 67327,

OP SECTRET, later downgraded to SECRET individual who had described him-

tion the previous day with an anonymous

reporting a telephone conversa-

self as a Polish chauffeur for the Soviet Embassy of that city.

This indi

vidual, while discussing several matters of intelligence interest, touched

possibility that the Soviet Government had financed the assassina-

tion of President Kennedy. Reference was made in this cable to the receipt

of a similar anonymous telephone call on 15 October 1962.

"3. Upon receipt of this cable from Navy CIA took the following action:

The CIA Station in Canberra arranged for discussion of the calls with

the Australian security service. In the opinion of the Australian authori-

ties, the caller was a crank.

27 May 1964

Memorandum for Mr. J. Lee RANKIN, General Counsel etc.

Subject:

Letter Accusing

Chinese Communists of Plotting the Assassina-

tion of President Kennedy.

Reference is made to paragraph two of your memorandum dated 12 Febru-

requesting copies of disseminations relative to the assassination of

President Kennedy that were sent to the Secret Service.

"2. Shortly after the assassination the United States Embassy in Stock-

holm received

a'letter, mailed on 25 November 1963, which accused the

Chinese Communist of plotting this act.

This information was disseminated

on 9 December to the White House, Department of State, Federal Bureau of

dissemination

with a copy to the Secret Service.

The exact text of the

to this memorandum.

In view of the fact that this letter was received at the United States

Embassy, the Commission may have already received information about the

document from the Department of State."

Warren Commission

21-

---

## Page 23

NUV

65990

Dgcld:32395405

Page 23

- DESCRIPTION OF DOCUMENT -

(A)

(B)

- RECIPIENT(S) -

June 1964

Subject:

Memorandum for J. Lee RANKIN, General Counsel etc.

Documents

on Lee Harvey OSWALD Furnished by the Soviet Govern-

[DDP 4-1764]

The Soviet documents forwarded to this Agency under your letter of 20

May 1964 provide some

additional detail on OSWALD.

The information

these documents parallels that already available from other sources,

does not

contradict our previous information.

The documents do clarify

somewhat

OSWALD's alleged occupation at the Minsk radio plant giving the

original

Russian terms used in decsribing his job.

"2. The following points relating to the documents are worth noting:

A significant omission from the materials provided is the letter

OSWALD allegedly wrote to the Supreme Soviet requesting Soviet

zenship.

P.C.

Warren Commission

3 June 1964

The similarity of wording of the receipts

regarding his understanding of Soviet residence and travel regula-

tions further supports our belief that such regulations are identical

nearly identical for bearers of either type of identity document.

This means that OSWALD should have obtained permission in July 1961

failure to ob-

"c. The includsion of Marina's exit visa 'application' is singular

in view of the fact that the Commission had not

requested information

on Marina. ...

"d..

The Soviet translators for OSWALD's early documents are believed

to be identical with persons already referred to in OSWALD's

'diary'.

...

"3.

The format and wording of subject documents appear to be consistent

with Soviet practice."

Memorandum for Mr. J. Lee RANKIN, General Counsel etc.

- 22'-

P.C.

Warren Commission

---

## Page 24

NWV

65990

ocld:32395405

Page 24

- DESCRIPTION OF DOCUMENT -

(A)

(B)

Subject: George and Jeanne de MOHRENSCHILDT

[DDP 4-2770]

information on George and Jeanne de

Reference is made to your memorandum of 31 March 1964 requesting ny

MOHRENSCHILDT that is available

files.

Our review shows that the files contain reports received from

FBI as well as some informa-

The review also produced

references to information in the records of the Coordinator of Information

and the Office of Strategic Services. According to records of those agen-

cies, George de MOHRENSCHILDI had been considered for employment in 1942%0

but was not hired because he was alleged to be a Nazi espionage agent.

information developed by CIA for its predecessors) before the assassina-

tion of President Kennedy had established any link between the de MOHREN-

SCHILDTs and Lee Harvey OSWALD or his family.

You may also wish to make inquiries at the Office of Naval Intelli-

gence; the Assistant Chief of Staff, Intelligence, Department of the Army;

the Department of State,

and the Civil Service Commission because these

departments also have information about George de MOHRENSCHILDT."

5 June 1964

Memorandum for Mr. J. Lee RANKIN, General Counsel etc.

Subject:

Allegations Regarding Intelligence Training School in Minsk,

[DDP 4-2844]

Allegations

of the existence of a Soviet intelligence and/or sabotage

training school in Minsk, USSR, have come to the attention of the Agency

from press reviews.

Also, there had been an informal inquiry from a mem-

ber of the Commission, Mr. DULLES, very recently on this detail.

Then horton this ours to the tennission the information which the

"2.

A careful review of CIA files has produced no hard information regar-

ding Soviet intelligence or sabotage training ih Minsk since 1947.

... "

5 June 1964

CSCI-3/781,543

Subject: Lee Harvey OSWALD.

P.C.

FBI

- 23 -

- RECIPIENT(S) -

Warren Commission

FBI

---

## Page 25

NW

65990

D

cld:32395405

Page 25

- DESCRIPTION OF DOCUMENT -

(A)

(B)

and security services. As yet, the data base is very narrow, with the re-

sult that

any search against the program has a very limited chance of suc?

Nonetheless, a search was made using those items

of information which

which are known relating to the two letters.

from Havana,

one dated 10 No-

vember. 1963 and addressed to OSWALD, and the other dated 27 November 1963

and addressed to the Attorney General.

hoid any interest.

The print-out listed 19 names, of which' only two seemed to

A review of the files

on these two eliminated one,

leaving a single candidate.

At the same time, a routine name trace has been run in the main index

the name Mario del Rosario Molina, the name with which the 27 November

1963 letter was signed.

There were no traces on that name, but informa-

tion was available on two persons with somewhat

similar names.

10 June 1964

Subject:

Associates.

"1. Reference is made to your memorandum of 19 May 1964, requesting that

this Agency furnish any information injins files relative

to Jack RUBY,

his activities, and his associates.

Examination of CIA records has failed

to produce information on Jack RUBY or his activities.

We also have no in

dication that RUBY and Lee

were asso-

FBI

12 June 1964

Memorandum for Mr. J. Lee RANKIN, General Counsel etc.

Subject:

Letter Relative to Assassination of President Kennedy Sent

United States Embassy in Costa Rica.

IDDP 4-29881

"1. The information given below, and the attachment to the memorandum,

are furnished in order to complete the Commission's file on crank letters

generated by the assassination of President Kennedy. Since the letter was

received by a United States Embassy the Commission may have received this

information previously from the Department of State.

"2. The United States Embassy in San Jose, Costa Rica, in late November

24

State

- RECIPIENT(S) -

Warren Commission

Warren Commission

---

## Page 26

NW

65990

D

acld:32395405

Page 26

- DESCRIPTION OF DOCUMENT -

(A)

(B)

1963 received a letter claiming that the assassination of President Kennedy

was part of a plot to kill all the presidents of the free

dated letter,

dressed to Ambassador Raymond TELLES.

the White House, the Department of State service.

tigation. It was not sent to the Secret

disseminated to

Federal Bureau of Inves-

This letter was adjudged to be the work of a

crank. Details of the

document were passed to the Government of Costa Rica.

No further informa-

tion on the writer of this document, who signed himself RODRIGO C., has

ever been received."

29 June 1964

Subject: Investigation be Allegae pa tha

General Counsel etc.

OSWALD was in Tangier, Morocco.

IDDP 4-33471

"1. The reference memorandum [FBI Memorandum,' dated 10 June 1964] con-

tained a request that this Agency conduct inquiries in Tangier, Morocco,

to resolve certain allegations concerning Lee Harvey OSWALD.

Our inquiries

have been completed and the results show that the entire story concerning

OSWALD's presence in Tangier has no basis in fact.".

30 June 1964

CSCI-3/782,058

Subject: Investigation of Allegation that

OSWALD was in Tangier, Morocco.

"Reference is made to your memorandum, dated 10. June 1964, requesting this

to resolve allegations that Lee

The inquiries were completed on

19 June 1964 and the results show that the allegations have no

basis in

fact.

Ydur representatives, Mr.

S. J. PAPICH,, was verbally notified of

the results were forwarded, by memo-

A copy of that memorandum is attached for your files and for any

additional action you may wish to take."

1 July 1964

Memorandum for Mr. J. Lee RANKIN, General Counsel etc.

Subject:

Lee Harvey OSWALD's Arrival Time in Helsinki on 10 October 1959.

[DDP. 4-38891

- 25 -

FBI

FBI:

- RECIPIENT(S) -

Warren Commission

FBI

FBI, Warren Com-

mission

Warren Commission

---

## Page 27

NWV

65990

pcld:32395405

Page 27

- DESCRIPTION OF DOCUMENT -

(A)

(B)

- RECIPIENT(S) -

In response to your memorandum of 25 May 1964, we have established

that the only direct flight from London to Helsinki on 10 October 1959 was

Finn Air flight 852 which arrived in Helsinki at 2333 (11:33 p.m.).

OSWALD had taken this flight, he could not normally have cleared customs

and landing formalities and reached the Terni Hotel downtown by 2400 (mid-

night) on the same day.

This is based on the judgement of officers in

this Agency familiar with the Helsinki airport.

We are presently attempting to determine if OSWALD could have taken a

more circuitous flight from

London, with a stop

at Stockholm,

Copenhagen,

or some other city.

Any additional information received will be forwarded

to you promptly."

2 July 1964

Memorandum for Mr. J. Lee RANKIN, General Counsel etc.

Subject:

Lee Harvey OSWALD.

[DDP 4-3401]

"1.

The following remarks have been recently attributed to Soviet Consül

Pavel Antonovich YATSKOV in Mexico City regarding the subject.

'I met OSWALD here.

He stormed into my office and

wanted me to introduce and recommend him to the Cubans.

He told me that he had lived in the USSR. I told him that

I would have to check before I could recommend him. He

was nervous and his hands trembled, and he stormed out

of my office.

I don't believe that a person as nervous as

ored, whose hands trembled could have accurately

Our Mexican Station has checked its records for the period OSWALD

was in Mexico City and has advised it is quite possible that OSWALD

though he had talked with Valeriy KOSTIKOV when he actually had spoken

to YATSKOV; or that he first spoke to KOSTIKOV who turned him over to his

superior YATSKOV.

"4. A copy of this memorandum has been forwarded to the Federal Bureau of

Investigation."

6 July 1964

Memorandum for Mr. J. Lee RANKIN, General Counsel etc.

- 26 -

Warren Commission

FBI

Warren Commission

FBI

---

## Page 28

NW

65990

D

pcld:32395405

Page 28

- DESCRIPTION OF DOCUMENT -

(A)

(B)

Subject: Statements Reportedly Made by George and Jeanne de MOHRENSCHILDT

Concerning Lee Harvey OSWALD and the Assassination of President Ke ded4791

The information furnished below has been received from usually reli-

able sources and consists

of statements reportedly made by the

de MOHREN-

SCHILDTs concerning Lee Harvey OSWALD and the assassination of President

Kennedy.

Shortly after the assassination of President

Kennedy, feorge and Jeanne de MOHRENSCHILDT were

among the guests attending a cocktail party in Haiti.

The de MOHRENSCHILDTs were asked if there was

any substance to the view expressed in certain foreign

periodicals such as L'Express, a left-wing Parisian

by the Dallas elite, and he felt that it was very

likely that certain

reactionary elements in Dallas had

organized a plot to get rid of Kennedy and used a dis-

turbed person such as OSWALD to achieve their ends.

Mrs de MOHRENSCHILDT agreed fully with this thesis.

"3. A copy of this memorandum is being forwarded to the FBI."

27 August 1,964

CSCI-316/00856-64 Subject: Lee Harvey OSWALD - Internal Secu-

rlity, Russia - Cuba.

Reference:

Your Memorandum dated

28 July 1964.

"1. A review of the results of monitoring. Soviet foreign broadcasts at

the time when an interview with Lee Harvey

OSWALD had apparently been

taped was conducted with negative results.

Therefore, it is assumed

that suche had consumedeast at all, was aired over a local USSR facili-

consumption.

"2. With respect to the same question, Yuriy NOSENKO was asked if any

attempt had been made by the Soviets

to exploit OSWALD for propaganda

purposes, such as Radio Moscow broadcasts, telecasts, or lectures.

NOSENKO replied that. this had not been done either in Moscow or in Minsk.

- 28 -

FBI

- RECIPIENT(S) -

FBI

---

## Page 29

NW

65990

ocld:32395405

Page 29

- DESCRIPTION OF DOCUMENT -

(A)

(B)

NOSENKO later reviewed this statement and confirmed it."

(NB :

Reference document is FBI request to CIA requesting the latter to

identify broadcast by OSWALD in USSR sometime hefore early January 1960.)

28 August 1964

Memorandum for Mr. J. Lee RANKIN,

General Counsel etc.

Subject:

Konstantin Petrovich SERGIEVSKY

[DDP 4-4479]

The files of this Agency contain no identifiable traces on Konstantin

Petrovich SERGIEVSKY or on his sister.

We have no information which would either confirm or refute allega-

tions that Lee Harvey OSWALD made one or more visits to the city of Gorky

in April and May 1960 or at any other time.

The term 'mokrym delam' which appears in the notes which SERGIEVSKY

brought with him to the British Embassy may be translated 'wet affairs' or

'liquid affairs'.

It is an expression or jargon used by the KGB to refer

to activities involving kidnapping or assassination. • . .

RANKIN asked for Agency comments concerning allegations of a Soviet

citizen in Moscow on 29 July 1964:)

Konstantin Petrovich SERGIEVSKY, who walked into the British

Embassy

1 October 1964 •

Subject:

Memorandum for Mr. J. Lee RANKIN, General Counsel etCiDDP 4-5110]

Joachim JOESTEN

"1. Attached are repoduced copies of a

set of German documents seized by

the U.S. authorities at the end of World War II.

The documents concern

Joachim JOESTEN, author of Oswald: Assassin or Fall Guy?, Marzani & Mune

The captured documents in this set range in

dates from July

JOESTEN had been a member of the Communist Party of Germany since 1932.

You will note that the attention of the German security organs was direc-

ted at JOESTEN as early as 1936.

At that. time the Communist Party had been

been outlawed in Germany and the German authorities apparently had begun

collecting information about JOESTEN and his activities.

Their investiga-

tion seems to have culminated in the proposal for revocation of his Ger-

- 29 -

P.C.

State

- RECIPIENT(S) -

Warren Commission

Warren Commission,

FBI, State, IGNS

---

## Page 30

NW 65990

Di

ocld:32395405

Page 30

- DESCRIPTION OF DOCUMENT -

(A)

(B)

- RECIPIENT(S) -

man citizenship.

[Comment:

The assassination of President Kennedy was the subject of a book

by Joachim JOESTEN entitled, "OSWALD - Assassin or Fall Guy?" (1964)

lished by Marzani and Munsell Publishers,

Inc. of New York,

in which

JOESTEN states that there is no question

mind that OSWALD was a mi-

nou a A a enA". Marlished

Marzani, a known communist,

coauthor of a

pamphlet;

in 1961.

JOESTEN is

dated November 8, 1937,

Policeman communist Party ence May 12, 1932;

to have been

an active member

he was issued Commu-

nist Party membership card (Mitgliedsbuch) No. 532315.

Cited in "The Soviet and Communist Bloc Defamation Campaign", Congressional

Record

- House, 28 September 1965, pP. 25391-25393.]

30

---

## Page 31

NW 65990

Docld:32395405

Page 31

1. LEADS INVESTIGATED BY CIA. This list does not include disseminations or memoranda /

on Gilberto ALVARADO Ugarte and Silvia Tirado de DURAN. These two leads have been

treated separately elsewhere in this study.

2.

Each document is listed chronologically in the first column with an indication of

the type of document involved (OUT Teletype Message - DIRECTOR cable disseminated

by electrical means; CSCI dissemination - through regular liaison channels, or

memorandum).

Following the subject of the document there is an appropriate

excerpt

from the document.

3. An asterisk in the column headed by (A) indicates that the lead originated in CIA,

either in the field or headquarters.

4. An abbreviation of a component of the U.S. Government in the column headed by (B).

indicates that the originator of the lead when not CIA and that the later

responded to the originator.. An entry appearing in both columns indicates that

a U.S. representative abroad passed the lead in the field to the local CIA

Station.

5.

The last (column indicates which component(s) received copies of the DIA dissemina-

tion or memorandum. The entry appearing in brackets indicates the recipient

re-

ceived the document at a later time.

---

