# DOCID-32390006

## Page 1

Date:

02/10/05

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER: 104-10406-10257

RECORD SERIES

: JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : RUSS HOLMES WORK FILE

DOCUMENT INFORMATION.

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : HSCA

FROM : CHIEF COUNSEL SCA

TO : LEGISLATIVE COUNSEL. CIA

TITLE : LETTER: IN ACCORDANCE WITH PROFESSOR BLAKEY'S

DISCUSSION/ QUESTIONS RE NOSENKO

DATE : 08/28/1978

PAGES : 4

SUBJECTS : HSCA

• NOSENKO

JFK ASSASSINATION

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER

CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFIED

RESTRICTIONS : 1A

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

06/30/04

COMMENTS :

JFK-RH03 : F0061-II : 20040324-1064211

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

65990 Date: 11-01-2021

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10406-10257

NW 65990 Docld:32390006 Page 1

---

## Page 2

LOUIS STE::.5, OHIO, CHAINMAY

SAMUEL L. DEVINE, O:NO

STEWANT B. MCKINNEY, CONt

HAROLD S. SAWTER, MICt.

MARISIN L. FOMO, TENN.

ROBERT W. LOGAR, PA.

(202) 225-4624

222: 33/0

Spelect Countice in Assisaiatioas

U.E. House of licpresentattues

3331 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

She pauck

copy

A moles

August 28, 1978

Piece tat 29 0ug78

Tacking at

7 Am meet

~ 2 gang 19 79:

'os'

Mr. Scott Breckinridge

Chief Coordinator,

HISCA

Office of Legislative Counsel

Central Intelligence Agency •

Washington, D. C. 20505

jack sullerari- os

Dear Mr. Breckinridge:

In accordance with Professor Blakey's discussion

with you last week, and in keeping with the timetable

proposed at that time, the following interrogatories

are submitted for your consideration.

05

1. Enumerate the name of any drug given to

Nosenko and the date it was administered --

including those given for "therapeutic" pur-

poses -- from January 1964 to 1968.

Describe in detail Nosenko's living condi-

tions from April 4,

1964 through 1968.

description should include, but

not be limited

to the following:

where he lived

b. the degree to which his movements

were restricted

C.

his contact with other people

d.

his access to radio, television ano

aa too materials

e.

the degege to which his actions were

Enis f.

restrictions with regard to his tood

intake

arrangements

Define Nosenko's present and past employment

the central Intelligence Agency.

03346

NW 65990 Docld:32390006 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Mr. Scott Breckinridge

Page

2

Include:

a.

the dates and nature of his employment

b..

the services rendered by Nosenko

C.

itemized accounting of all compensation.

received by Nosenko

an account of the roles of Richard Helms

and John McCone in authorizing Nosenko's

employment and compensation arrangements

with the CIA

#7/c1/85

4.

On what dates and for how long was Nosenko

questioned by the CIA about Lee Harvey

Oswald

- from 1964. to present.

When Nosenko was questioned by the CIA about

i in untie Harvey Ovald, who did the questioning.

What background, if any, did the interrogator

SE

CI

have in interrogations.

What knowledge did the

interrogator have with respect to Oswald's back-

ground.

On the dates that Nösenko was questioned

about

= 1

Oswald does there now exist or did there

ever exist:

a tape of the questions asked and Nosenko's

answers

b.

a transcript of the questions asked and

Nosenko's answers

C..

a summary of the questions asked and

Nosenko's answers

c I/05 8.

What criteria, if any, was used to determine:

what subjects to question Nosenko about

how much time to devote to each subject

9..

What significance - with respect to possible

foreign involvement in the assassination as well

as to the issue.of Nosenko's bonafides

the CIA attach during the years: 1964-1968 to NO-

senko's statements about Oswald?

10:.

What significance - with respect to possible

foreign involvement in the assassination

as well

as to the issue of Nosenko's bonafides -- does

the CIA attach today to Nosenko's statements

about Oswald?

NW 65990 Docld:32390006 Page 3

---

## Page 4

. Mr.

Scott Breckinridge

Page 3

Si

49/51/05

ter belief of trill

captaire.

Helm/Taylor 0s

OS

11.

If the answer to question 9 is different

from the response to question 10, when did the

change occur and why?

That was the CIA's position from 1964 t

968 on the question of whether Nosenko is bonafide

13.

What is the CIA's position today on the

question of whether Nosenko is bonafide?

14.

If the answer to question 12 is different

from the response to question 13, when did the

change occur and why? .

15.

What was the CIA's position from 1964 to

1968

on whether Nosenko was telling the truth in

the statements he made to the. CIA about Oswald?

What is the CIA's position today as to whether +

Nosenko was telling the truth in the statements he

made to the CIA

about Oswald?

If the answer to question 15 is different from

the response to question 16, when did the change

occur and why?

18. Why were three polygraph tests given to Nosenko?

What is the CIA's position with regard to the

validity of each of the three polygraph tests ad-

ministered to Nosenko?

Why was Nosenko asked numerous questions per-

taining to Oswald on his. 1966 polygraph test and

only asked two questions about Oswald on his 1968

Who authorized Bruce Solie to reinvestigate

Nosenko's bonafides?

22.

1968?

Why was Nosenko's bonafides reinvestigated in

Did either the FBI or the CIA have primary re-

sponsibility for investigating Nosenko's statements

NW 65990 Docld:32390006 Page 4

---

## Page 5

(

Mr. Scott Breckinridge

Page 4

about Oswald? If neither had primary responsibility,

16y twas there any division of

responsibility?

What communication, if any, existed between the

FBI and CIA with respect to evaluating and/or in-

vestigating Nosenko's statements about Oswald?

Thank you for your continued cooperation.

Sincerely,

I. Gover Blakey

G. Robert Blakey

Chief Counsel and Director

GRB: kkr

Ther it ibad hers.

NW 65990 Docld:32390006

Page 5

---

