# DOCID-32291788

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/7/2015

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10208-10064

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

92-3171-2014

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

CG

TO:

HQ

TITLE:

65994 Date: 11-02-2021

DATE:

05/18/1967

'PAGES:

17

SUBJECTS:

SGI, ASSOC, OC

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

04/17/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

• COMMENTS: INC RPT, ADMIN PAGE

v9.1

NW 65994 Docld:32291788 Page 1

291

---

## Page 2

66

392518

DECLAS

9-17-651

REPORTING OFFICE

CHICAGO

TITLE OF CASE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

SIA NEVARSE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

CHICAGO

DATE Wo

5/18/67

REPORT MADE BY

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

DEGA PION

3/15 -

5/9/0

TYPED I

SAMUEL M. GIANCANA, aka

WILLIAM F. ROEMER

CHARACTER OF CASE

bam

ES

CLASSTFIDD BY

3911

AR

LEMPT FROM GUS

CATEGORY

AT DEOLAASHFLNIILON LADSIN

404.

REFERENCE:

Report of SA WILLIAM F. ROEMER, Dated 3/23/67 at U

Chicago:

BY DE:

DATE:

8/20/88

ENCLOGURES

77)

tate (one)

70139

TO BUREAU (2)

Iwo (2) copies of a letterhead memorandum setting forti

characterization of informants utilized in instant reporta

LEAD

S95192

CHICAGO

8 Dec

83-404%

10/276489-8/5/3/85

AT CHICAGO,

ILLINOIS

and report the tivities o

Will

SIANCANA.

Case has been: Pending over ong

year & Yes

continue to follow

"LAGS

TEASON - EC

638BIET AL

5-18-57

onths

•Yes

No

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

• No; Pending prosecution over six

SPECIAL AGEN

IN CHARGE

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

1 - Bureau (92+3171) Ene.

1 - Legat, Mexico City)

92+

3171-2014

REC 27

1 - USA, Chicago

2 : Chicago (92-349)

MAY 25 19S7

Agency

Request Recd.

Date Fwd.

Dissemination Record of Attached Reporyille

sлa..

CS. AAC, Criminal Division,

Notation's

ING

By

Organised Care and hacketeering

dection, a

Room 2524

ladd

1c0 DAt

te Legat

NW 65994 Docld:32291788 Page 2

---

## Page 3

CG 92-349

ADMINISTRATIVE

The following information is being reported on the

Admnistrative pages of this report due to the fact that the

source of this information, CG 6992-PC, has not furnished

information of a sufficient volume in

order that his reliability

can be

established.

This PC advised SA HERBERT F.

BRIICK on

March 31, 1967, that he believes that SAMUEL "TEETS" BATTAGLIA

is only an unwilling front man for SAM GIANCANA, thathe believes

that GIANCANA really still calls the shots and is considered

tobe the leader of organized crime in the Chicago areau

INFORMANTS

Source

CG T-1

PCI MARY KAY MC ALLISTER

CG T-2

CG 6479-C

CG T-3

*MEX®

1704

CG T-4

MEX

180g

CG T-5

CG 6855-C-TE

CG T-6

CG 6911-C

CG T-7

CG 6588-C-TE

CG T-8

CSNY 23

Date Contacted

On numerous occasions during

Narch, April and May 21967 by

SA WILLIAM F. ROEMER

April 3, 1967 to SA LENARD A. U

WOLF

March 6, 1967 by Legat, Mexico

City

March 6, 1967 by Legat, Mexico

City

April 18, 1967 to SA LENARD U.

A. WOLF

April 21, 1967 to SA JOHN EU

DALLMAN

March 29, 1967 by SA RUSSELl RU

GIRSCH

April 18, 1967 to New York O1 fice 4

COVER PAGE

908-180e

NW 65994 Docld:32291788 Page 3

---

## Page 4

17M03

CG

92-349

SECKET

Source

CG

T-9

CG

• 3612-C-TE

CG T-10

MM 1124-C

Date Contacted

April 24, 1967 to New York Office

April 27, 1967

t:

Office

_C* -

COVER PAGE

STRET

508-100ed

NW 65994 Docld:32291788 Page 4

---

## Page 5

CG 92-349

CG T-6 advised in late April, 1967, that a close

associate of CHARLES GIANCANA, the brother of SAM GIANCANA

recently indicated to him that as of that time SAMUEL GIANCANA

"was still in Mexico.'U

IV. MISCELLANEOUS

CG T-7

advised in late March, 1967, that at that

time he received information that Chicago attorneys had been

requested through an intermediary on behalf of SAM GIANCANA

to conduct research to determine the identity of a country,

preferably in Latin America, where GIANCANA could reside and

not be susceptible to extradition or to being served by

the United States Government with a subpoena. The informant

noted that previously GIANCANA had made a request in this

regard insofar as Mexico was concerned and had been informed

that Mexico would not be such a place. u

On March 8, 1967, Mx. SID HERST, Canadian Immigration,

Vindsor, Ontario, Canada, Mr. M.s. FONTANNE, Head, Intelligence

and Investigations, Ottawa, Ontario, and Mr. DAN JORDAN :

Intelligence and Investigations, Ottawa and

Windosr, Ontario,

were contacted regarding the possible appearance of

in Windsor,

during the night club engagement of the MC GUIRE

Sisters.

Mr. HERST advised that all individuals in Windsor,

where the Mc GUIRE Sisters were appearing and at their hotel,

had been alerted to the possible appearance of subject.

On March 20, 1967, Mr. HERST advised that

subject had

not appeared in Windsor during the MC GUIRE Sisters' engagement.

Constable CHARLES BRUCHETT,

RCMP, Winasor, Ontario,

Canada, advised on March 9 and 20, 1967, that subject had not

appeared in the Windsor, Ontario, Canada, area during the

engagements of the MC GUIRE Sisters.

4(u)

AT PHOENIX

- 4-

S

sog-singed

NW 65994 Docld:32291788 Page 5

---

## Page 6

23 1 da

CG

92-349

On April 18, 1967, CG T-8 advised that the

only

engagements of which he is presently aware for the MC GUIRE

Sisters, are an appearance on the ED SULLIVAN Shoes, WCBS, on

April 23, 1967, in New York City and an appearance at

Fair in Cal-Gary, Alberta, Canada, July 6 through 15, 1967.U1

Source stated that the CalGary appearance is presently

scheduled to be the last engagement for the MC GUIRE's as a

Attention is invited to the information previously

reported that some persons interviewed in connection with the

visit of the MC GUIRE Sisters to San Juan, Puerto Rico in

January, 1967, identified photographs of GIANCANA as being

identical with an individual who appeared there while the

MC GUIRE sisters entertained.

Information also has previosly

been reported that EDWARD MICHAEL DAVIS advised that it was

he who visited PHYLLIS MC GUIRE at this time and that GIANCANA

was not there. In regard to this discrepancy the following

investigation

was conducted: a

On March 24, 1967, photographs of GIANCANA and

EDWARD MICHAEL DAVIS were displayed to the below-listed

persons who identified DAVIs aS the person they thought was.

GIANCANA Khen he DAVIS) was at the Puexto BE Sheraton

Hotel during the third week of January, 1967:

SJ 529-C

STEVEN PENOSER,

Assistant Manager,

Puerto Rico Sheraton Hotel

JUAN APONTE,

Room Service,

Puerto Rico Sheraton Hotel

RAFAEL R. SOL,

Head Doorman

Puerto Rico Sheraton Hotel

5

біруі)

sag-paged

NW 65994 Docld:32291788 Page 6

---

