# DOCID-32366992

## Page 1

Date: 02/14/05

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD

NUMBER: 104-10135-10199

RECORD SERIES

JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

80T01357A

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

AGENCY ORIGINATOR

: CIA

FROM : GAMBINO, ROBERT W.

TO

: LEGISLATIVE COUNSEL

TITLE

:

HSCA REQUEST 19 JULY 78 OLC -78-2718; RESPONSE GIVING

DETAIL ON INDIVIDUALS TO BE INTERVIEWED IN MEXICO CITY

DATE :

07/19/1978

PAGES

2

SUBJECTS

:

HSCA

JFK ASSASSINATION

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

RESTRICTIONS

: 1A 1B

CURRENT STATUS

RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

:

06/03/04

COMMENTS

JFK49: F10: 20040226-1050446

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

65924 Date: 10-26-2021

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10135-10199

NW 65924 Docld:32366992 Page 1

---

## Page 2

SECRET

OLC # 78-271811

MEMORANDUM FOR:

Legislative Counsel

ATTENTION:

FROM:

SUBJECT:

Mr. Scott Breckinridge

Principal Coordinator/HSCA Matters

Robert W. Gambino

Director of Security

HSCA Request

1.

(U/AIUO) Reference is made to the 19 July. 1978

request of the House Select Committee on Assassinations (HSCA)

for assistance of the Agency in arranging interviews in

Mexico with ten individuals (OLC 78-2718). The records of

the Office of Security have been checked and files have been

located on eight of the ten individuals.

2.

(S) The following is a brief outline of the nature

of the relationship that the Agency had with each of the

eight individuals on whom the Office of Security has files.

The outline also

indicates whether or not this file has been

requested for review by the HSCA and whether or not it has

actually been reviewed by HSCA staff members.

June Cobb Sharp - OS File #216 264 reflects opera-

tional interest in this American citizen from 1960 until

1968.

The file, which is in three volumes, has been

partially reviewed by HSCA staffers Lopez and Hardway.

Henry P. Lopez (Edward P. Tichborn)- OS File #203 377

reflects operational interest in this American citizen

from 1959 until 1968. The file has been prepared for HSCA

review but has not yet been seen by the HSCA staffers.

et. 9 9

Manuel Calvillo - OS File #282 599 on this Mexican

citizen

reflects operational interest in 1962.

The file

was reviewed by HSCA staffer Lopez on 12 and 17. July 1978.

SECRET

NW 65924. Docld:32366992 Page 2

EZ IMPDET

CL BY 063344

OS 8 1971/A

#12050

---

## Page 3

SECRET

Al Witrich (Correct name Alfonso R. Wichtrich

OS File #35 002 reflects operational interest in this

naturalized U.S. citizen during 1962. The file has been

prepared for review by the HSCA but has not yet been

reviewed.

Luis Alberu Suoto - OS File #279 089 reflects opera-

tional interest in this Cuban citizen intermittently

from 1962 until 1968. He was at one time of interest

as a penetration of the Cuban Embassy in Mexico City.

The file has been prepared for review but has not yet

been reviewed by the HSCA.

Consuelo Esperon - OS File #280 142 reflects that

this Mexican citizen was of operational interest during

1962 and 1963.

/ that lie

At that time, she was employed as a

secretary in the Cuban Embassy in Mexico City.. The

file

has been prepared for review but has not yet been reviewed

by the HSCA.

Ramon Joseph Alvarez Durant - OS File #114 926

reflects that Durant, who was born in New York City,

holds Mexican and American citizenship. Durant was

employed as

a Contract Agent from 1955 until 1970. During

some of this period

There is no indication mass security Mie that he has

previously been of interest to the HSCA.

LIONION I (True Name Alberto Rodriguez Gallego) -

OS File #228 726 reflects that this Cuban citizen was of

operational interest from 1961 until at least 1967. His

file does not reflect previous interest by the HSCA.

3. (S) The Office of Security does not maintain a file

on

Gen. Jose Jesus Clark Flores or Noe Palomares, however, it

Is known that both of these names were previously the subject

of inquiries from the HSCA.

4.

(U/AIUO) In regard to the individuals in paragraph 2

on whom the Office of Security does maintain files, it is noted

that the information in these files is generally quite dated and

would be of limited assistance in ascertaining their current

whereabouts.

Robert W. Gambino

2 SECRET

NW 65924 Docld:32366992 Page 3

---

