# DOCID-32565115

## Page 1

Beleased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records

Collection act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note]. Case#:NW 65994

Date: 11-02-2021

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVE-TIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

PHILADELPHIA

TITLE OF CASE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

PHILADELPHIA

RUSSELI ALFRED BUFALINO, aka

DATE

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

MAR 30 1962

1/25 - 3/16/62

REPORT MADE BY

FREDERICK T. HOULIHAN

CHARACTER OF CASE

AR

TYPED BY

pag

1/26/62.

REFERENCE

Philadelphia report of SA FREDERICK T. HOULIHAN, dated

-P-

ENCLOSURES

dated and captioned as above.

To Bureau (2) - Original and one copy of letterhead memo,

LEADS

ALBANY OFFICE

At Endicott, N. Y.

1. W111 interview JOHN D. DEMKOVICH, 306 North Roosevelt

avenue, concerning his knowledge of the subject. A call was made

iLV

APPROVED

tafr

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

COPIES MADE:

3 - Bureau (92-2839) (5n01 - e)

USA, MDPa.

Albany (92-131)

2

Newark (92-526

New York (92-731)

Washington Field

(92-290)

Philadelphia (92-441)

Dissemi

or Arched Region

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

12859-424

8 APR 2 1962

Notations.

Agency

Request R

Date Fus,

on Frid.

Sachi

6: APR 5 - 1962

NW 65994

Docld:32565115 Page 1

---

## Page 2

PH 92-441

2.

Will attempt to obtain recent photograph of

ANGELO J.

SON, who is employed by Medico Industries, Inc.

3.

Will maintain contact with the following for

information concerning the subject:

PH 521-6

PH 526-C

ORLANDO MENCHI, former PCI

WILLIAM STRUBECK, PCI

At Scranton, Pa.

1.

_ WIll contact WILLIAM NAsSAR, a CrA wich offices

in the connell Building, for information concerning the

subject.

A call was made to MR.

NASSAR's office from the

subject's residence on 10/2/01.

Will, if advisable, interview COSMO IACOVAZZI

at James fashions,

1805 Pittston

Avenue, for information

concerning the subject. The telephone at this concern was

called on 5/13/61 from

the residence of the subject.

3. Will maintain contact with the following:

PH 577-C

PH 599-c

FRANK COLLINS, PCI

WILLIAM FAILIA, PCI

ROBERT PATTON, PCI

ROBERT KARBOWSKI, PCI

- D-

COVER PAGE

NW 65994 Docld:32565115 Page 2

---

## Page 3

PH 92-441

At Wilkes-Barre, Pa.

Will maintain contact with PH 573-0 and SAUL GOODMAN,

ATTD.

At Philadelphia, Pa.

1. Will maintain contact with INS concerning status of

subject's deportation order.

2. Will evaluate and report any pertinent information

from PH 591-C and PH 623-C.

ADMINISTRATIVE DATA

The following information is being set forth in this

section in order to protect the source from which the informa-

tion was received:

PH 591-C* on 2/17/62 furnished the following

information:

ANGELO BRUNO, Philadelphia, Pa., stated that he had

contacted congressman FRANCIS E. WALTER,

asked him to talk to the subject. At first, WALTER was

reluctant to do so, but when advised that BUFALINO had been

one of those attending the Apalachin meeting, WALTER agreed

to do so because he said that he knew that those who had

attended this meeting did not talk. The subject was taken

BRUNO to talk to Congressman WALTER. During this meeting

by

WALTER indicated a knowledge of the subject's immigration

problem.

He asked BUFALINO what type of business he was in,

and was

told that he was in the clothing business.

WALTER

asked him if he could open a factory in his congressional

district because if he did, he (WALTER) could do him a lot of

good with government contracts

and the like. WALTER was asked

by BUFALINO 1f he wanted an interest in his business, and

WALTER said he would think about this.

During the meeting

WALTER waS

reported to have agreed to see what he could do

about helping BUFALINO and his problems

with

the Immigration

service.

However, since this meeting, there

has been a rift

-E-.

COVER PAGE

NW 65994 Docld:32565115 Page 3

---

## Page 4

PH 92-441

between ANGELO BRUNO and Congressman WALTER, and WALTER now

refuses to see or even talk to BRUNO on the telephone.

The

status of BRUNO's case with Congressman WALTER 1s not known.

PH 623-C* advised that during the week of 2/10/62,

ANGELO BRUNO, Philadelphia, Pa., had been in contact with

1 the

subject, RUSSELL A. BUFALINO.

INFORMANTS

PH T-1

ORLANDO MENCHI,

Former PCI (by

request).

PH I-2

PH T-3

PH T-4

PH T-5

DAVID ROBERTS, PCI.

NY 3488-C*

FRANK COLLINS, PCI.

ANN VANNER, Wyoming Coal Company,.

Scranton, Pa.

PH T-6

PH T-7

ROBERT KARBOWSKI, PCI.

EUGENE MC CARTHY, Manager,

Forrest Hotel, New York City.

PH T-8

ROBERT EVANS, President,

Pennsylvania

Gas and Water Company,

Wilkes-Barre, Pa.

PH I-9

PH T-10

PH 526-C

SAUL GOODMAN, ATTD.

PH T-11

RICHARD SCHMITT, ATTD.

PH T-12

PH 521-C

PH T-13

PH 577-C

-F

COVER PAGE

NW 65994 Docld:32565115 Page 4

---

## Page 5

PH 92-441

PH T-14

PH T-15

PH T-16

PH T-17

- - G*-

COVER PAGE

NW 65994 Docld:32565115 Page 5

RAYMOND T. MC GARRY,

Bell Telephone Company,

Pittston, Pa.

WILLIAM MATHESON, former PSI.

WILLIAM STRUBECK, PCI.

PH 573-C

---

