# DOCID-32354900

## Page 1

JEK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER: 104-10096-10030

RECORD

SERIES: JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

: 80T01357A

DOCUMENT

INFORMATION

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM

:ENSE. DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF SECURITY

TO

: THE RECORD

TITLE : MEMO: AGENCY CONTACT WITH THE INS ON BEHALE OF MR.

JOHNNY ROSELLI

DATE: 03/25/1974

PAGES

: 2

SUBJECTS : ROSELLI JOHNNY

MAHEU ROBERT

GIANCANA SALVATORE

JFK ASSASSINATION

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPEF

CLASSTFTCATION • SECRET

STATUS: RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 05/25/04

JFK35: F5: 20040107-1031349

Heleased under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

65924 Date: 10-25-2021

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10096-10030

NW 65924 Docld:32354900 Page 1

---

## Page 2

SEOR

25 MR R?

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT:

Agency Contact with the immigration and

Naturalization

Service on Behalf of Mr.

Johnny Roselli

1.

Reference is made to a request

forwarded to the

Office of Security on 19 March 1974, by Mr. John C.

Richards, Office of the Inspector General.

The Subject

of inquiry is based

on a request for information, made on

13 March 1974, by Mr. Terry Lenzner, Assistant Majority

Chief Counsel,

Senate Select Conmittee on Presidential

Campaign Activities, to Mr. Lyle L. Niller, Deputy Legis-

lative Counsel.

Mr. Lenzner cited

a 14 May 1962, Agency

memorandum which refers to contact between it. Lawrence

Houston, then General Counsel,

and the then Attorney

General,

Mr. Robert Kennedy;

with the intention of "quashing

of a Grand Jury organized crime indictment against San

Gianconni (sic) (Salvatore Giancana)."

Mr. Lanzner is under-

stood to believe this reported contact and

the circunstances

surrounding the intended Agency utilization of Mr. Giancana

during President John F. Kennedy's Administration were being

surfaced in 1971 as part of an effort to obtain blackmail-

type information on certain principals in the Democratic

Party. Mr. Lenzner specifically requested information on

Agency contacts with the Administration during 1971 relating

to this matter.

2.

The files and records of all individuals identified

with the planned utilization of Mr. Giancana were searched,

These individuals included Mr. Robert A. Maneu, who arranged

contact with Mr. Giancana through Mr. Johnny Roselli; Mr.

Richard Cain, recently deceased, who was identified in the

press as knowledgeable of Agency

association with. Mr. Giancana;

and Mr. Willian King Harvey, retired Staff employee, who

acted as principal contact with it.

Roselli during the

late 1960's and up until Mr. Roselli's incarceration.

EZ IMPDET

CL BY 061142

NW 65924 Docld:32354900 Page 2

SCOOTT

---

## Page 3

SEC

nET

Additionally, the files of other individuals associated with

Mr. Robert A. Mahou were also searched.

These included, dir.

Peter R. Maneu, Mr. John Meier, and Mr. Michael Meritige, II,

currently an Agency contract

employee, who was utilized

during 1963 and 1909 in Ecuador

under

a conmercial cover

arrangement provided by the Maheu organization.

Memoranda were located in the file of Mr. Johnny

Roselli which surmarize contact on 26 February 1971,

initiated by this Agency with

• the Commissioner, Inmigration

and Naturalization Service, Department of Justice, Mr. Kaynone

Farrell. The purpose ot this effort was to intercede with

the Inmigration and Naturalization Service on behalf of Mr.

Roselli in

the action being initiated for deportation.

It

was determined that this Agoncy would be kept inforned of the

progress of the action against Mr. Roselli in an effort to

forestall public disclosure of his association with the United

States Govemment.

The Attorney General at the time of these

contacts with the

Immigration and Naturalization Service was

Mr. John N. Mitchell.

4. On 21 March 1974, this matter was discussed with Mr.

John C. Richards, Office of the Inspector General; Mr. Lyle L.

Miller, Deputy Legislative Counsel; and Stanton f. Ense,

Deputy Director for Personnel Security and Investigations,

Office of Security:

The Office of Security file on Mr. Johnny

Roselli was made available to Messrs. Richards and Miller,

including the memoranda cited in paragraphs I and 3 above. Mr.

Miller indicated that he planned to await a follow-up call

from Mr. Lenzner on this Subject.

Stanton F. Ense

Deputy Director of Security

Personnel Security and Investigations

NW 65924 Docld:32354900 Page 3

2

---

