# DOCID-32357188

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION

FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER: 104-10103-10325

RECORD SERIES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

80T01357A

DOCUMENT

INFORMATION

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM

TO

TITLE

:

VICTOR ESPINOSA HERNANDEZ.

DATE

04/27/1977

PAGES

1

SUBJECTS

HERNANDEZ

VICTOR ESPINOSA

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS

SECRET

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 07/22/93

COMMENTS : JFK36 : F32: 1993.07.22.15:18:31:710410

Heleased under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act ol

1 992 (44 USC 2107 Note]. Case#:NW

55924 Date: 10-26:2021

- - - - - -

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10103-10325

NW 65924 Docld:32357188 Page 1

---

## Page 2

* ..

SECRET

27 April 1977

SUBJECT : Victor Espinosa Hernandez

REFERENCE:

SSC Final Report (Book V), Pages 78, 79,

and 105 - (A Cuban Exile)

1. Subject arrived in the United States on 2 May

granted a POA on 18 October 1960 for participation in operations

against the Cuban regime.

He was terminated on 20 March 1961

malcontent.

in Jes Angeles

2. In July 1963, Subject was involved with the purchase and

caching of 2400 pounds of dynamite,

100 pounds of practice bombs and

other related material, and with plotting to bomb the shell 01l com-

pany and other Cuban targets.

Since the FBI felt that the aerial at-

tack on Cuba had been effectively thwarted by seizure of the munitions

and impounding of the aircraft, they contemplated no criminal action

at that time against subject and his cohorts.

On 2 May 1965, Subject contacted an INS officer who, on the

basis of information in Subject's story which appeared to, affect U.s.

security, notified the FBI. On the same day (2 May 1965), Subject

was interviewed by the FBI and CIA was notified on 3 May 1965.

contacted Subject on 4 May in the New York field office of the FBI.

The gist of Subject's story was that he was aware that AMLASH and

others had been planning a coup which involved the assassination of

Castro and that CIA had been involved with AMLASH and others in the

plotting.

4. In a 9 June 1965 cable from Headquarters to Paris and Madrid,

DIRECTOR 17510, Headquarters advised the Paris and Madrid Stations that

"it evident that security of our Cuban ops in some cases and our own

compartmentation not all that we would desire.

Urge therefore that

Stations concerned continue take such steps as feasible to improve se-

curity."

201-File

5. The

Ageney does not have copies of the FBI reports cited in

Book V of the SSC Final Report.

6. The information supplied by subjects adds little, if anything,

to the overall SSC report. It simply shows that the SSC was reviewing

every lead.

:.

E2, IMPDET

CL BY 004645

SECRET/

NW 65924 Docld:32357188 Page 2

---

