# DOCID-32239482

## Page 1

Date: 08/20/93

Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

RECORD

AGENCY : HSCA

NUMBER: 180-10060-10474

RECORDS SERIES :

STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : HSCA

FROM :

TO :

TITLE :

Released under the John F.

Kennedy Assassination

Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

Lase#: Nwy 66000 Date:

11-04-2021

DATE: 09/08/77

PAGES :

6

SUBJECTS:

HSCA, ADMINISTRATION

MARS, MITCHELL

DOCUMENT TYPE: PRINTED FORM

CLASSIFICATION : U

RESTRICTIONS: 3

CURRENT STATUS : P

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 06/04/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

BoX 2.

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NW 66000

Docld:32239482 Page 1

---

## Page 2

MARS, Mitch

Name or employee

Address

Phone Number

Position Tiria

DATE OF APPOINTMENT

9-8:77

Lovel

Sier

PRIOR FEDERAL SERVICE

•isonin;

OFFICE OF THE CLERX

U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

PERSONAL LEAVE RECORD

1978

YEAR

ANNUAL LEAVE •

CATEGORY

1.0

1.5

2.0

AVAILADLE

THIS MONTH

DAY OF MONTI

2 20 19 231

174567778 20 2 22 237 21 2372 27722730 31

Annual

Leave

Sick

Leave

BALANCE

BROUGHT

FORVIARD

FRO!S

PRECEDING YEAR

Annual

Leave

Position Number

Wenth

jon.

Feb.

Mar.

Apr.

May

June

July

Aug.

Sept.

Oct.

Nov.

Дес.

cr

= 0.5 day annual lesvo

= 1.0 doy annual leavo

=

0,5 day sick leave

= 1.0 doy sick leave

or

or

=

0.5 day administrative leave

= 1,0 day administrative Icavo

= 0.5 day unauthorized absenco

= 1.0 day unauthorized absence

0.5 day leave withou: pay

= 1.0 doy leave without pay

NWV 66000

Docld:32239482 Page 2

ACCRUED

THIS MONTH

Annual.

Leave

Sick

Leave

/

/

USED

THIS MONTH

Annual

Icave

Sick

Leave

DALANCE

AT CLOSE

OF MONTH

Annual

Leave

4

EMPLOYEE

INITIALS

XXX

10

3.

3

CERTIFIED CORRECT:

Employco's Signatura

shite

(if employee reluses to sien, state reason below.!

Chiel's Signalura

Dile

Approved:

Cloris of the House

Dalo

This record will be ferwarded to the Clerk of the House at the end of each calendar year, or in case of termination, along

with the request for termination. Upon approval, the record will be filed in the employee's official personnel folder.

HIBIT I

---

## Page 3

TO:

Thomas Howarth

FROM :

Mitchell A. Mars

Date: June 26, 1978

As per our previous conversation, this is to confirm

that my resignation will be effective as of the close of

business July 9, 1978; due to earned annual leave, my final

working date will be June 27, 1978.

NW 66000

Docld:32239482 Page 3

---

## Page 4

PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

(Please Use Typewriter

or Ballpoint Pen)

U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.

Washington, D.C. 20515

(Any erasures, corrections, or changes

on this form must be initialed by the

authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last)

Effective Date

Matchell A.

Mars

Employee Social Security Number

338-48-1298

7/9/78

Type of Action

Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee

Assassinations

(If type of action is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate information below.)

Position Title

• Appointment

• Salary Adjustment

• Title Change

É Termination (Ai close of business on effective date)

• Leave without pay (Beginning with effective date above and ending

close of business_

Specify Date

Gross Annual Salary*

* If employee is a civil service annuitant (includes U.S. House of Representatives), the gross annual salary shown should include the annuity received by the employee.

plus the salary received from the employing office.

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. 0 Standing Committee: Staff— Clerical or • Professional.

2. L Special (Investigative staff of Standing Committee) or Select Committee: Authority -M. Res.956

_ot 95 t Congress.

3. • Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number_.

If applicable, Level.

Step_-

I certify that this authorization is not in violation of: 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of

relatives.

July 7

Date_

78

, 19

Ilf appropriate, signature of Subcommittee Chairman or Ranking Minority Member

LOUIS STOKE SUC

dirt ficid

(Type or print name of Authorizing Official)

(Type or print name and title of above official)

(Title - If Member; District and State)

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee. em-

ployees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations; the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must

be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:

Office of Finance use only:

Office Code

Monthly Annuity $

Chairman, Committee on House Administration

ID

Benefits

Payroll _

.00 as of

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

(Revised: August 1, 19??!

NW 66000

Docld:32239482 Page 4

---

## Page 5

PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

(Please Use Typewriter

or Ballpoint Pen)

-U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

Washington, D.C. 20515

(Any erasures, corrections, or changes

on this form must be initialed by the

authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

Employee Name (First-Middle-Last)

Effective Date

Mitchell A. Mars

Employee Social Security Number

338 48 1298

9/8/77

Type of Action

Employing Office or Committee

Appointment

• Salary Adjustment:

• Termination (At close of business on effective date)

Assassinations

(If type. of action is an; Appointment.or. Salary Adjustment, complete the following.information.

Position Title

Gross Annual Salary

Researcher

$18k000

(If Committee Employee; complete appropriate.item.below.):

1. El Standing Committee: Staff.-™ Clerical or E Professional.

2. E] Special or Select Committee: Authority-H. Res. 565

-of25th Congress.

3. L Joint Committee:

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number_.

If applicable, Level_

Step:

I certify that this authorization

is. not in violation of 5 US.C. 3110(b) prohibiting the employment. of

relatives.

Date_

September 15

-191?

(Signature of Authorizing Official):

Lotis Stokes

• (Type or print name of Authorizing Official)

Chairman

(Title - If Member, District and State)

All appointments. and salary adjustments for.employees under.the. House Classification Act.and for. Committee em-

ployees, except.those. of the Committee:on Appropriations, the: Committee:on the Budget, and the Joint Committees; must

be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:

Chairman, Committee on House Administration

Office of Finance use only:

Office Code._

Monthly Annuity $.

00

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

NW 66000

Docld:32239482 Page 5

---

## Page 6

MEMORANDUM

T. Howarth, Budget Officer

FROM:

G. Robert Blakey, Chief Counsel and Director Pe

DATE:

September 7, 1977

9-12.77

RE:

Mr. Mitchell

Mars

This is to inform you that Mr. Mitchell Mars has

accepted the position of Research Attorney with the Committee

staff. Mr. Mars' effective starting date will be September 8,

1977, starting salary will be $18,000.00

Your co-operation in familiarizing him with the operation

of the staff will be appreciated.

GRB/ J1

NW 66000

Docld:32239482 Page 6

---

## Page 7

MEMORANDUM

TO: ALL STAFF

RE:

Payroll Certification

The Regulations and Accounting Procedures for Allowances and

Expenses of Committees, Members and Employees of the U.S. House of

Representatives require that, among other things, the Committee's

monthly payroll certification include the relationship, if any, of

each employee to any current Member of Congress. This certification

ingress This certification

is signed monthly by our Chairman.

The following are the relationships to be included in the

certification:

father.

mother

Son

daughter

brother

sister

uncle

aunt

first cousin

nephew

niece

husband

wife

father-in-law

mother-in-law

son-in-law

daughter-in-law

brother-in-law

sister-in-law

stepfather

stepmother

stepbrother

stepsister

half-brother

half-sister

Please complete the appropriate portion below, sign and date

this form, which will then become a part of your permanent personnel

file.

If this status changes, you must notify the Committee's Budget

Office immediately of the change.

* I am not related to any current (95th Congress) Member of Congress.

I am related to a current (95th Congress) Member of Congress.

(Please specify.)

Matell Man

Signature of

Employee

10/H4/TT

Date

NW 66000

Docld:32239482 Page 7

---

