# DOCID-32390414

## Page 1

Date: 02/11/05

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER

: 104-10408-10218

RECORD SERIES

: JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

:

RUSS HOLMES WORK FILE

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM : M.D. STEVENS

TO : CHIEF, SRS

TITLE : CAIN, RICHARD S.

DATE : 10/09/1967

PAGES : 6

SUBJECTS : CAIN, RICHARD

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

RESTRICTIONS

1A

CURRENT STATUS

RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

11/09/98

COMMENTS

:

JFK-RH04: F0062: 1998.11.09.16:33:21:840107 : FILE

ORIGINAL IS PREVIOUSLY SANITIZED DOCUMENT

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

65990 Date: 11-01-2021

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10408-10218

NW 65990 Docld:32390414 Page 1

---

## Page 2

• UNITED STATES GOVE IMENT

Memorandun.)

TO

•Chiet, SRs

Thru : DC/SRS and C/ FIOB/SRS

FROM : M. D. Stevens

SUBJECT: CAIN, Richard S.

#272 141

DATF:

9 October 1967

1. Reference is made to the attached 5 June 1967 DCS memo-

randum on Subject, which in turn made reference to previous DCS

memoranda on him on 24 and 25 May 1967 and to an Office of Security

memorandum dated 29 May 1967. The 5 June 1967 memorandum

enclosed copies of several 1963/1964 documents from the Chicago

Field Office's file on CAIN, which ADC/PSD forwarded to SRS with

the comment that "It appears DCS is cleaning out their files re Lee

Haryey OSWALD, et al."

2. Subject, it is obvious, had been a source of information

regarding an alleged discussion of the assassination of President

Kennedy at a secret meeting of the Fair Play for Cuba Committee

held in Chicago in February 1963 under the direction of Richard

CRILEY (#346 116). He also was the source of information regarding

the alleged attempted recruitment into the Communist Party of young

Cubans in the Chicago area by one Guillermo ESCOBAR, who accord~

ing to the Chicago office was "one of Horace SPEED's (SAS) leads

obtained from Ralph PEREZ." (Presumably Ralph PEREZ, #444260)

SPEED is Horace SPEED II, #199499. The documents also indicated

that in February 1964 CAIN was the subject of a conversation initiated

by Eldon S. COHEN, #38557 o/c, with a representative of the DCS

Chicago office who believed his purpose was to learn whether or not

CAIN was in fact on a two-month's sick leave from the COOK County

Sheriff's office, as he was said to be, or was on a political under

cover assignment which COHEN inferred involved tapping the tele

phones of gubernatorial candidate Charles H. PERCY and other

political figures.

S33321

H07937173 274

SECRET

NW 65990 Docld:32390414 Page 2

---

## Page 3

During review of GAIN's Security file, I noted a message

regarding him from Mexico City, on 25 April 1962, which mentioned

a "Willard ANDREWS, reputable American businessman in Mexico,"

who obviously had had contact of some kind with CAIN, as well as with

a CIA representative in Mexico to whom ANDREWS had commented that

CAIN claims to have been with OSS during W. W. I (Acopy of this memo-

randum is attached). In answer to this message which reguested traces

on CAIN, Headquarters, in furnishing limited information obtained regard

ing him, advised that neither his claimed employment by OSS, nor a claiza

he made to have worked with Task Force W, could be substantiated.

Station was advised that he did have (or. had had) a legitimate detective

laboratory in Chicago.

-put 527

5. The firstime CAIN came to the attention of the Security Office

as when the Mexico Station requested traces on him. Their request

stemmed from an unannounced visit he made to the Station, during which

he stated that he had an investigative agency in Mesico with branches in

Chicago and Los Angeles. He had also stated that his agency in Mexico

was for the purpose of training Mexican Government agents in police

methods, in investigative techniques, and in the use of the lie detector;

and had added that he was investigating Communism in a certain unnamed

Central American country.

6. In June 1962, the Mexico Station advised that CAIN was being

deported by the Mexican Ministry (of) Gobernacion for these violations:

a. Carrying a loaded revolver and brass knuckles

b. Impersonating a Mexican Government official

(He had identification as an investigator for tie

Mexican Treasury Office. )

c. Violating his tourist permit by working at his

detective office and at the Mexican Treasury

2

SECHET

NW 65990 Docld:32390414 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Subject was subsequently of interest to the DCS in September

1963 when an ad hoc clearance was requested to permit his being asked

to respond to general requirements regarding his knowledge of certain

Cuban refugees and their potential for foreign positive intelligence. On

10 September 1963, the DCS was sent a memorandum which furnished

much of the above information on CAIN.

8. On 22 May 1967, the Director of Security indicated that he

had received information from the FBI which ties Subject to the Mafia

in Chicago; and he directed that the DCS be contacted for information

las to whether or not they ever established contact with him and, if so,

for what purpose. The Dos was also to be advised that, if they were

in contact with him, it was suggested that they break it off. On 25

May 1967, the DCS advised that there had been no contact with CAIN

since 1963, and furnished copies of eight reports for which Subject had

been the source of information. These had to do with anti-Castro Cuban

activities, procurement of arms, etc.

9. On 29 May 1967, Security advised the DCS that there is a

current FBI investigative interest in Subject and recommended that

there be no further contact with him at this time.

10. The 1 September 1967 copy of Life magazine contains an

article titled "Brazen, Empire of Organized Crime," in which it is

stated that Sam GIANCANA, Head of the Chicago, Coga Nostra, is " still

running things by remote control from a hide-out in Mexico... where

he poses as Ricardo SCA.LZETII), The real SCALZETTI, GIANCANA':

erst while chauffeur and courier,

", is more familiar to Chicagoans as

Richard CAIN, a well known former Chicago policeman and more recently

a private investigator."

NW 65990 Docld:32390414 Page 4

---

## Page 5

15. There is attached a copy of the above referred to September

articles in Life magazine, in one of which CAIN is described as the erst-

while chauffeur and courier of Sam GIANCANA. The second of these

articles makes reference to alleged friendly contacts of Jim GARRISON,

of the OSWALD Case, with henchmen of the Cosa Nostra in the Louisiana

area.

1. D Sterie

M. D. Stevens

Attachments: articles

MDS/cer

SECRET

NW 65990 Docld:32390414 Page 5

---

## Page 6

The Covert Security Clearance was amended and

approved in March 1951 to include Morgan's use

in providing covert legal support for opera-

tions in the form of a "cut out"','legal advice,

transmission of funds, and other assistance of

a legal nature in connection with DDO projects

Since Subject may have been utilized by the DDO,

it is felt that any decision to release infor-

mation regarding Morgan should be deferred to

the DDo.

It is noted that while only the afore-

in his capacity as Robert A. Maheu's personal

attorney, Morgan is mentioned sporadically in

the Maheu, Harvey, and Roselli files.

In 1967

Maheu was

interviewed and advised that he had

• briefed Morgan regarding the details of his

involvement in the Agency-sponsored Castro

assassination plots.

Morgan's current asso-

ciation with Maheu, professional and/or personal,

is unknown.

Morgan is currently practicing law

in the District of Columbia law firm of Welch

and Morgan.

Joseph Shimon--No Office of Security

subject file exists regarding Joseph Shimon,

Joseph Shiman.

However, he is mentioned

the Johnny Roselli file

of Roselli.

It is further noted en the oriend

in the Roselli

file that Shimon knew Maheu,

but the nature and

extent of their official/social relationship is

unknown.

Shimon is described as a

District of Columbia Metropolitan Police Depart-

ment (MPD) inspector who was discharged from the

D.C. MPD as a result of a conviction involving

wiretapping activities.

To date,

no decision has been made as to the type and

of response

to be made to the Dade County Sheriff's Office

request.

Additionally, a formal request. to the Office of

5

SECRET

NW 65990 Docld:32390414 Page 6

---

## Page 7

Security has not been received.

Office of Security files have

been

searched and pertinent information

reviewed.

Pending a

decision as to what form the response, if any, will take,

it

is recommended that the Office of Security files containing

information pertinent to the request be retained in a readily

available status and no further action be taken at this time.

Canta RAine

Curtis R. Rivers

6

SECRET

NW 65990 Docld:32390414 Page 7

---

