# DOCID-32339776

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kenned!

Assassination Records Colection Act of

1992 144 USC 2107 Notel. Case#Ny

545r8 Date: 11-30-2021

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/8/2015

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES:

FBI

124-90151-10021

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

CR SEE TITLE

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FBI

FROM:

WMFO

TO:

'HQ

TITLE :

[Restricted]

DATE: 10/24/1962

'PAGES:

4

SUBJECTS :

ALINE MOSBY

NORMAN RAY RENNION

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

01/27/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

MEMO

v9.1

NW 64578 Docld:32339776 Page 1

---

## Page 2

• OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

5010-104

UNITED STATES GO

ARNMENT

Memorandum

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI

A19

FROM : SAC, WFO (1

1659)) (P)

SUBJECT:

CHANGED

NORMAN RAY

RUNNIONES)

PS1'- DESACO -

(00: WFO)

DATE:

EX-116

10/24/62

CLASS 42O BY Sae

DECLASSIFY ON. 25.

3/6/95

Classifed by 5668 54s/GeL

Declassin on: DADN JFK)

1104.

Nor maN R. RunnioN

above title is marked changed to indicate

CS RUNNION's full name as indicated by his signature on his

passport: photograph.

(SAR)

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT K 9/10/98

‹ ReWrOlet 9/18/62 setting forth background infor

mation concerningRUNNIONwith request for Bureau authority C

to condúct.a

"sounding out"

interview

ReBulet 9/24/62

authorizing such interview

As indicated in re WrO letter, (RUNNIONis

is in the employ of United Press International (UDi (journal-

well as a member of the National Press Club (NPC), Washington,

D. C.

CRUNNION was interviewed on 10/15/62 by SA TOLLET CS

JACOBSON, -

IR., who is personally acquainted with him.

During

the conversátion RUNNIoN evidenced a cooperative and friendly?

attitude:

ATI, INFORMATION CONTAINED

SIFTED

•1951

. SHOWN

119/24

LET CIS

EXCEE I

OTHERWISE

It was ascertained during the interview

that

(RUNNION has some slight degree of acquaintance with purIy v.

BARSUKOV, Washington correspondent for "Izvestia"

organ of the Supreme Soviet of the USSR. He did not know

BARSUKOV by name but recognized

a photograph of him and

stated he had been under the impression that

this individual

was the Tass correspondent at Washington, D. C.

He said

he has merely a speaking acquaintance with BARSUKOV, having

first seen him in Washington, D. C. about one year

RUNNION said it is his assumption that BARSUKOV and other

Soviet newsmen attend White House press conferences and brief

ings here at the Department of State. He mentioned having

seen BARSUKOV at' one such briefing.

he alsa mentioned having

REC- 38

134:

Bureau

2-

X1(105-31238)

TJ: jac

(147)

it to per milk

MCT - 26

18 ₴

26,1902

ECRE

EX-200

NW 64578 Docld:32339776 Page 2

---

## Page 3

WTO 134(4659|85

seen him recently at a press conference on the occasion of

the visit to Washington, D

• C. OL KONSTANTIN G. PYSIN, Soviet

Minister of Agriculture. CRUNVION said he, himself, eats C>.

Lunch everyday at the' NPC and he estimates that BARSUKOV

lunches there about three times a week.

He said that on

occasion he has happened to sit at the same table with

BARSUKOV. He said he assumed BARSUKOV considers him as a

reporter but is not aware of which news service employs him.

He described BARSUKOV as a personable individual who has

an excellent command of English although he speaks with an

accent.

He expressed the opinion that BARSUKOV is shy by

nature. (

RUNNION said he is not acquainted with any other CS

press representatives irom Soviet bloc countries to the

best of his knowledge.

He said he believed he had once met

a Yugoslav newspaperman and he also recalled that a Polish

journalist was present at Cape Canaveral while he, RUNNION

was there in connection with coverage of a rocket launching.

He remarked that this Pole was the jirst representative of

a so-called

Iron Curtain country to be present on such an

occasion.

RUNNION recalled that while working as a newspaper s

man in London, England, he was acquainted with a correspondent CSs

I lass (oIlIcial soviet news agency) who appearea to o

endeavoring to(cultivate RUNNION on a social basis. (RUNNIONS

indicated there

was no doubt in his mind that this Tass man

was endeavoring to utilize RUNNIONjas a source.ts)

It is noted that in discussing BARSUKOV, (RUNNION CS

laughingly remarked that if the U. S. Government were to

make a case against BARSUKOV and have him expelled irom the

U. S., such action would no doubt result in the expulsion

of an American reporter from Moscow.

In this connection,

reference was made to recent expulsion of American diplomats

from the Soviet Union, apparently on a retaliatory basis.of

In this connection, it appears probable that

RUNNION has in mind the interest ofUPwith regard toC&

expulsion of some one of its representatives from

the USSR.

This probability will be borne in mind in the

event of

further interviews with RUNNION.S)

Also in the course of conversation,

he remarked

that a lupi newspaperwoman named ALINE

MOSBY

at one time was.

- 2 -

SECRE

NW 64578 Docld:32339776 Page 3

---

## Page 4

NIO 134(1659](5)

ECRE

stationed in Moscow.

He said that on one occasion while

stationed there, Miss MOSBY was found unconscious and

partially disrobed in a gutter.

he said she was jailed over-

night at that time and the incident was mentioned in

"Izvestia". RUNNION said it was his understanding that (S

upon her release the following day Miss MOSBY was examined

at the American Embassy and it was determined that she had

been drugged.

although she

O1O nor drinK

was considered an attempt by the Russians to place UPI at

i dura yantase ne

a disadvantage, so that in the event UPI should in the

future incur the displeasure of the Soviet Government, they

could concoct a similar incident and have Miss MOSBY expelled

from the USSR with resultant publicity. He said that to

avoid such an eventuality, UPI transferred Miss MOSBY to

another post, thus terminating her career in Moscow.

RUNNION also related an alleged incident concern-

ing an unidentitled British newsman who, it was stated,

returned to his apartment in Moscow one night where upon

as he walked in the door the lights were switched on and a

nude man was seen lying on the bed. At this point flash

bulbs went off and Russian agents present in the room

addressed the British reporter by name with the obvious in-i

tent of blackmail.

RUNNION, in his conversation, made it clear chat

he understands that the Russian journalists are official

representatives of the Soviet Government and that as indicated

no sortet overman ta

above, he is under no illusions concerning possible methods

has indicated a favorable disposition toward the fBi.

During

the interview he volunteered that although he has little

information concerning BARSUKOV, he could, with complete

discretion, obtain some information concerning BARSUKOV's

working activities from mutual acquaintances in the

journalisic field. Definite instructions were not

RUNNION in this connection but it is contemplated that on (5S

the occasion of lurther contact with him, efforts will be

made to develop his assistance along these lines.

concerning RUNNION have been set forth in re WrO letter

It is noted that results of background investigation

including results of credit and criminal record checks at

- 3

SECRET

NW 64578 Docld:32339776 Page 4

---

## Page 5

WTO 131(1659 65)

Washington, D. C.; check of files of the Passport Office,

Department of

State; the Security Office, Department of

State; and CIA.

The IBI Identification Division advised on 10/16/62

that on the basis

I Intormation turnished, it was unable tc

locate a record ofÑORMAN RAY RUNNION in its criminal or (32

civil files.:

number of months,

there is no indication gi domestic

difficulty or instability on the part of RUNNION and his wife. CS

RUN will we recontacted whim enemie

n vlew of the above.

discussed with him the

possibility of his cultivating a (4]

more substantial acquaintance with BARSUKOV on the basis of

their frequent presence in the NPC and their common interest

in the prolession of journalism.@it is further contemplated

hat at the same time consideration will be given to th

possibility of developing RUNNIONas a possible source ~

for use against other subjects who frequent the NPC as set

forth in rewrolet.

SECRET

NW 64578 Docld:32339776 Page 5

---

