# DOCID-32565021

## Page 1

FD-36 (Rev. 12-13-56)

1.

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

55-44 Date: 11-002-2021

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

TO :

FROM:

SUBJECT:

FBI

Date:

5/27/64

(Type in plain text or code)

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

2839

Director, FBI (92-20839)

SAC, Philadelphia (92-441) (P)

RUSSELL A.

BUFALINO, aka

(00: Philadelphia)

Re Philadelphia airtels 5/20/64 and 5/22/64 and Bureau

airtel 5/26/64.

Philadelphia airtel 5/20/64 recommended that results

of interview with SUE NICHOLS be furnished to INS. At the

time recommendation was made the subject's paramour, JANE

COLLINS (PH 665-C-TE), stated she had no intention of testi-

fying at INS hearing of subject.

Since that time, however,

COLLINS has decided to

SCHIANO. COLLINS stated that

SCHIANO has told her that

she cooperates he would limit the questions asked of hen

Pand

would ask only those questions approved by her attorney.

In general, the questions asked would concern her

relationship with subject but no specific questions would be

asked by INS concerning the exact nature of the intimacy

between COLLINS and the subject.

In addition, COLLINS would be asked concerning her

relationship with attorney REMO ALLIO.

ALLIO has already

testified at INS hearing that he was

COLLINS attorney and re-

fused to answer questions concerning his contact with he 22/4

2

- Bureau (92-20839)

- Philadelphia (92-441)

REC- 97

MAY 28 1964

FTH : mab

(5)

C Approved!

F856.nh

Sent

- M

Per

101964

Agent in Charge

NW 65994 Docld:32565021 Page 1

---

## Page 2

PH 92-441

COLLINS denies that ALLIO was her attorney.

COLLINS gave $40,000 to ALLIO, ostensibly as an in-

vestment in Monet Fashions, which company ceased to operate

after she received only $3,000 of her original investment.

has indicated that ALLIO never invested this money in Monet

Fashions and funneled it off, probably to the subject.

COLLINS fears widespread publicity if she invokes

the 5th Amendment at INS hearing and is willing to cooperate

with INS if the questions asked of her are restricted.

COLLINS does not want it known that she has

been an informant

•for the FBI.

INS

expected to lay groundwork

spent by subject at COLLINS home at Lake Ariel, Pa.

It is not recommended that INS be furnished the

details of the interviews conducted with SUENICHOLS,

because if this is done it will set a precedente for possible

demand for information furnished Bureau by KARBOWSKI and

COLLINS.

COLLINS has been most cooperative and voluminous

Information has been furnished by her to this office. KAR-

BOWSKI did furnish some information in the past concerning

subject's relationship with COLLINS and this information was

reported under confidential symbolin Philadelphia reports con-

cerning the subject.

Bureau in confidential classification as was the information

from COLLINS and KARBOWSKI.

Every step

will be taken to protect the confidential

relationship between COLLINS and the Bureau.

If a demand is made at INS hearing for information

furnished by COLLINS and KARBOWSKI and NICHOLS,) the confidential

- 2 -

NW 65994 Docld:32565021 Page 2

---

