# DOCID-32374797

## Page 1

104-10196-10354

NW 65990 Docld:32374797 Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

65990 Date: 10-29-2021

---

## Page 2

104-10196-10354

..... і s, ать.

PRAFT

DE REPORT

to Finn Pig MEd 1I6

---

## Page 3

104-10196-10354

Satyant.

Let i me

Unidentities Indinishes in de

thorological Smas

Refissies:

ste

My prisone if this shis seig

2. Belgians This taminatio and suras

bor

inter s15 Pisten Commission

otte costiniates of president kenssed,

and satinduces cite eviden as

I sette xx 33 prizes

NW 66590

Docld:323

Page

---

## Page 4

104-10196-10354

huing

7546300

estigate

hensly awaitin

Wit a LiA,

to raced he see,

(Gazittic, my ritus if the same nichi deal

Chise, and sill,

riginate from a high, anita gertro

in Ditche 1969

inducted,

13 the ta fet and escor

sing antente against the friest and

Cubinis Castensies in Mexico City.

liffer tir ths pres of the be at stron,

unisin and do anormates comes 7.

this plat gigle nese made anoithe

man 22 treate, and lites tent ding,

copie,

at a made 7 procle, use ni d,

am piratings,

NW 65990 Docid:32374797 Page

---

## Page 5

104-10196-10354

ithodiner

72 in 7781 20

inst sing 7 23% mond

bread of phots of midividua

when migh love bean twos to

Keep as timing down barn in

mett broom

The Migue

Dowald did pest at th ta cognig

sies stove to Me Mious Ganes

in allis da i, Aering f Never 23,903

My Fbl agent, Bandwell D. ODUM.

The Worse Consinistinose

the Deficice of mento Ste st 1p. 361-5

anne 67.(Atachment (tachment thuap pet as,

sented in Mi Marzaite Get

allegatios this to pipeed plasts

now of Jack Bady atty day hipse

---

## Page 6

104-10196-10354

lessing.

lisatin this toners crucision

hood been ths fast Sent wiles she had

he dine a see plate gage ins

her asserace before the Comminia

big the F3

Nó duties in the Waran unire no mast

that hesst

Ent iffittes H7 Singe truth.

#pinst suit perverse, she self swing

in a politeized, it

I rill determines

interpestine clint, the has petite oni

ican westures lig the mesten men ite

port decade, lily contine Thi plastigaph,

NW 65990

Docld: 3237

791 Page 6

---

## Page 7

104-10196-10354

explomation thit halle botold to home

NW 65990 Docld:32374797 Page 7

---

## Page 8

104-10196-10354

Reportion:

I spite risent fine itin lead in fam pis

bastino, a

he hang all as a in 15, is this

ct, form 27 May 6 de maring f = deltes

1463, the plot graphe 1 the ident fies

sottitiont into cot

it's the for engie, t to i in made stand,

what was done by the cases is statin

NW 65990 Docld:32374797 Page 8

---

## Page 9

104-10196-10354

did vite tittie infrastin it dullager

de Assassiato, 2r Nor 1963, asid inned.

intry this Big afte

4 Zrom all edit snidense dossie to this

toms (aru, sicidustry, added assic de

extracestinaras.cork/26 Wassee

missis; bie they caned equent

it full dogs nech Z postial day - ahmet

116 brandto dis all - si Auxico C5 foam

Nant 10:00.27 Septembers Bist to about

0800 2 Octates 1963. this oft past 7

ni does o a sall those sat

traces hotel, tilate wit frequent

NW 65990 Docld:32374797 Page 9

---

## Page 10

104-10196-10354

and stereogation by i disa atten tee and

the 781 sistible, That win the recreations of

all hotel prost has lift sis and

7 Not the

shet 11s of the time 1f to steg for a

39 bosal, there BEt

18 lover of acting to be aschanted

fr. The Quence on the bris

I eit's corage can account cally

I for unites during ta

- 39,238

sisten and I Carla. All courage

by CIA deing the peed win testinise,

bad the station, linda no his sonsce

1s from Mexican lease: Cowald wins

730444429049

NW 65990 Docld:32374797 Page 10

---

## Page 11

104-10196-10354

sa psi studo modes sirrestigatio,

adstate

as ating to le US:; 1559-1962 mese

rezestre a Magico Teno file Refore

10 autre 1163, witen the infantion

Norse

ti lu su Gmeci con erstant for a mein

silicates and docused forg

dasing his stry in trico city did the C1A

sein of all concraze, asia sistecept, soug

Societ and Colora Erstensis sins incode

Bing the Station an the 22 and 33 N'asse

NW 65990 Docld:32374797 Page 11

---

## Page 12

104-10196-10354

198s apt, the caressic going back

to matracho form, aid year, It is thre-

fore firm that the was ted Clit plast

corsage of fried it sing this bearing

720224

the sunstro on the have 118 (Citate

intreet (while lind been resentes to

Age and distin it is intractis

members i the mitilliganes consona

ts are see blasies be big doorsed car.

and, potentity, of intert ti the tient.

mento stat -termed manath

leased on content, not on identes,

with mustrias sites pted in 27) and

08 Sesteaker 1963. Mothes dead ne roice

"NW 659905

---

## Page 13

104-10196-10354

waited big the meriter and this spe,

not insignifient license of the pore

set used, ast meid.

LahoreAsa

It stood bes seated That Bone's antis apt

and ph a slice coverage was noticin

a mire pre to The natio, I

the pet agorting of ten of finger day

sitionte and tutors saga motio

O the topes and esthers a flet inses, ten a

face tentate, i hath. Pits area, ties

096-58ETA18323747974 pagers

---

## Page 14

104-10196-10354

I become sailad in quant, hot se

salich guised pearing did alectors

to foess and decellisat the sas senses

hid eating of this heard i, samn

intelligence in the mention s

Bus This, was passised, whet dicearled

land on I Git his avest the Invest his herag,

and it was this internatin sported y

Tin than ant the in entit

the mince sting medita?

---

## Page 15

104-10196-10354

The Merico Cs, Statino died e matring

in its segret to Ostined beased o its

This data mete, incisation it lead

seguied fiora calatical Socce

a plato gusta, topo Merico statios

bace nash

intesin the Smit bandon, i ten.

The stations agerated thisse detach an an

diel nist telett rost on seuggest theat

the dats pedweed fron the plsto war

in foot Oswald, in ideed, mi are,

city Bar: One additinal elusert of bandi -

il: 40741594996453

NW 65990 Docld:32374797 Page 15

---

## Page 16

104-10196-10354

plaid in the chin riclasse in 23

November in Gallis lig Is 7B1 agint,

of bewald actouty as of th of tanton

I the zaand and 29ld when all actable

corceage look buen ie-deschal?

6. The totalits f E1975 Nale Mexico Sations

Oswald, ermaisted of fuis (5)

NW 65990 Docld:32374797 Page 16

---

## Page 17

104-10196-10354

.

37 547 1963

(Friday, s

11605 this Cot toas:

4, Mariss netonalo?

o cal saiglogie

assailian

D

tolle Mo that the Americen citizen was thoro,

the one who

Hanta & vin for cuba on his way to the Sovies Union and ho santo:

to knot with nhom ha was talking thera because uho (S1lvia) had

sent him to the Soviet Embraoy paying that if they accepted him

and gave him a vlaa then the Cubana (Embaaay? Maild also give him

a visa without further paper nork only advisins Immigration in Cuba

sets wants to lợt with whom ho hnd

ho was

A difforent &

rond them sould peino

him. This errinys

to

eye nam and ralph number and it

Silvia give

511v1a

takes advantage

a states cho has moved

and want to advise the forlot moo

that she can rocolve the letln.

tho name of tho Consul

or

Bays tha nam do Teraza PROElZA and the

telophoné number is 14-10-26.

14.0

so toys thenko.

(Failing)

B. 21 Sept 19C3 16:26 Mario Cos ten :

ban comailate, poly Solan desa

NW 65990 Docld:32374797 Page 17

---

## Page 18

104-10196-10354

.

In

M.

Lis

pit là 1bs Amrican hal bes there.

Stirin saris do

...

Hesitast

-ChaL To are to go

ió to sorte:

ibera for a long tino aten hio itro mis is Suasian,

insisten lus not cons fron lachlagion in respect to chis

mid sivordíng to this procedure 1t inkes

four so tire

dus slident dissing remiesten fron the soviet laden

Saria Bak,

or detter.oold, they cannot 180:2 a visa dero

asino inshington horover,

according to. this cen

a letter Inflentine ho ras a mambor of sa atraclastion

withere lisa hardog a vlan for tho Sorlet Unlon, and now

es Dura and thet the Culand busd that ther cace dosu%

ast anor tha: to do with hia (tho Amerloan), deinure they

mit for the more fred lashlugton. Silvin aires tis

The doris.

445956018.

1s brua de vill lo, difficult for him da di s

vlea for tits.

tecauso ha vas thinkles of processiaz

(fer Sarise Valon), locauas he lieu li vodld tguire calling a

Jong tine for his visa to tha Soilet, Unlon Wallo in Cute and fros

thare jo to the Soviet Union.

He salủ the thing 1a

wite richt now wore in Naghington sho would recalin ter vias.

rigat no, or permission, fron the Soviet Union, to stura to her

cates, sha lo solis to nocalvo lor visa 1n Washingtea Sut baving

this visa; obo could countento to my placo this jurission,

for exaggie sore or any plaço she could receive it (visa or perniosion)

but right sow thej do not have thei. (no Ira tienen).

Silvia sayo

carisiniy and thay cannot stre a letter either because *bey do not

los 18 its visa kill lo approved. MI bayo they only stir vicra

accarting to ludiçations.

Silvia save than pha wilt run chan on the

¡List, it avr le cumat give a latter öf recomendation either

thanis cuss is for dothering

6. 28 Sort 1963 (Saturdan)s 11i51 Mixin CE

Silvia spelis Saglion wich

Jith sorore - and coments in Spanish that they

17-12-1 gud

to take the number down 's Silvin

name 18 going to talk with ysu.

seala in Ergliot.

They continue In English

area Steaka RussIar

sericen talk

Just a minute, t

do rat? doerican says, Please speak fuspian.

too.

I addresse

cnizable

MISSIS,

Sais I did not know it

to ss's thes for misdress, because they have it.

then. I went to Too

ambassy

may on't.

you care saln and Leave your caress with as, 1t 1s.

0: 722

the

Cubas Daleasy l Angrican says I'll be there rigut dista

Ice-the Soviet. The

NW 65990-Doeld:32374797-Rage-1&

---

## Page 19

104-10196-10354

D. 1 Octaber 1963 (Tuship), 10:31 sterica

15-69-671

SECRET

The somet

Cassel.

'wad at your place Inat Saturday and talkad to jour

They Bald that they'd sond a telegram to Vnalisaston,

orwanted to cok you if there is mÿthing now? mranys la

Ills to ask you to call another phons number.

Pleass write 1$

doss 15=60-55 and ask for a consul. Thant jou.

E: 1 Cetabe 1963 (Tueatos) , 10:45 dia.

45 til)

No itia sams peraon uho phoned a day or so ago and spoke in

REND speaking.

hot ten 0 t any a to find out god have anythings

IS ASIALD. OBEDKOV caja, Just a minute I'll find out.

sar that trey haven't received anything yet. OSNALD. aaga:Eale

they done anything? chedkoy says: Yes, they say that a request

"hss dean sent out, but nothing bas been received ar yet.

conio bays And what...?

OBYEDKOV hangs up.

+597392955575

NW 65990 Docld

4797 Page 19

---

## Page 20

104-10196-10354

all y tus items,

mus his and sis, sa

tep and it to sit t the in;,

that asians t have

3222215

accent 230

wii may the the is tenny t

-NW 65990-Dog/d:2374797 Bage 20

---

## Page 21

104-10196-10354

reja mastes.

Odest. te is told the corind wine mat son

and I call tide at 1130 Oswith is bionist.

I lilies the call mes areness for te

following name

@ the calls winter

ша пні ін ра оби

borned

At herce

/ Octate. @ there is eving new to belie

from the contist Is tod pie

-NN5000 Feel

---

## Page 22

104-10196-10354

The Smied resident.

Spaniah then in-Enblish to MI.. No says

s: Call on the other phong.

Tario

MaRya I'm looking for a visa to go to Russia. MU days: Please.

om pha to cho hat the cong radio and da numer:

don. They lsque ths viaa there?

carversation. I don't know about

the offico of the

consul and ask your question.

Anto busineds Plese cent he

number again.

sves him. the number and tella

the Consul of

Söviet Embessy 1n Maxico,

him

to'.ask..for

The Soviet sings:)

The Somet

The retri of the itant to lone

см. @ Romald less

lift Mexico city, bood te all the credibe,

sid fortnint

H2W44HS0

NW 65990 Docld:32374797 Page 22

---

## Page 23

104-10196-10354

e ca dati as remial

nata come, Le te Fatem

isitanto with te lestin and fruist

(Frilas

1ent 1963)

2. apto anni and chesant

inte

Calia

time I li scend

Atout 1600 (19, junt tifori aloring).

Ant hit th, top ha

antichis slot in seria. is ti, nes

EN WE059900000053

---

## Page 24

104-10196-10354

da the 2y9 lissai

Eimal funation!

is mit yet esplamed.

28 Slugt 363

kili

Arch tatis

Laud frust bindenaie

E sig T de publica

brut Sait

-ND 059904006

---

## Page 25

104-10196-10354

fire tieso

Tige sider

c. 23 keit 1183 (fuck).

No acting.

Визи

2. 30врт 1963 (rente No antis

68:30:)

e let 1963 (Tuaten 0Emm

Entert y the trio callo e moose

this need lone him no sc

014665990 Rockd: 32374797 Page 25,

---

## Page 26

104-10196-10354

Gawald would liare

за 7 17.

IT aint mid has it registers of

ente

a th

it gangle coun

+ 2 tho

andy That

and his.

latin, rad

americoe - who entired

the Sweet witellition that day.

from the plasts gogh, the stating sent

NW 65990 Docld:32374797 Page 26

---

## Page 27

104-10196-10354

2 , an te eite ie inad

dayat-dag necrnd s

„Lulat

inireegay Pip,

-NW 65990-Rocldl:32374797 Page Zhe

---

## Page 28

104-10196-10354

TO AT THREE ORICINATES WITH SEES!

PIS LEEP

LES NOTISEO ON ANY FURTUER CONTACTS OR POSITIVE IDENTIFICRZION

CE OSHALD.

maclean cale

said his papa lins owl

He discussad fading at 55-xt

No secal Dissusieation had

ayess made

(in dratt)

IINESSINES

AJIT

mi/cors

OUDINATUNG DITICERS

ECAST

REFRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS FROHIRITED.

1-2002 v8

J....

CHES

ATICATUNI

Capy

No.

NW 85990-Docld792374797xBag

---

## Page 29

104-10196-10354

lotonen 5 8657-22 t's enten

9. Mee das stiro reportes to tego ra 8

ine.

SATP LIS NOTES OSTALD (PHONETIC), STATED HE

GALERIY VLADIMIOQUICH

SMITHING NEU REITELEGRAM TO WASHINGTON. ORYEnHON WOON CHECKING SAIN

COURSE LED"INE JON ON A COT. APPARENT ART 35, ATHELTIC RÜTLD,

CIRCAS STEE, REDEDINE HUIRLINE, BRUO INE TOP. MDRE KHAKIS

210 SONAT SSERT..

5. in Losit dissetimation turo bei monde le ita

Statino :

10, Cn 10 Getoler 1963 at 20:12 Z tin,

the Alert receine frai Mexico States Ergle,

WV 65290. Docldi32374797 Page 29

---

## Page 30

104-10196-10354

callate al detais dear for ?

Contise

ON I OCTONER 1955 A RELIAULE AND SENSITIVE SOURCE

LEXICO. CITY INQUIRING WETHER THE CURASSE BAD RECEIVED

AUY DOES CO CLALING A TOILGRIM MEICH BAD LOSS SENT TO

35 FINES OLD, MITIL AN ATLETIC GUILD. APOUT SEX ITET TALLY

MITH A CEOLO INCUTE.

2.

IT IS CELIEVED THAT CORALD MAY ES INSITICAL TO 1EE

OSTALS, CORE ON DO OCTORER 1939 CENTY ORLENIS, TOUrSTATA,

CCZO35& 1950 AND LATCR MAOR ARRANGEHENES TUROUCH TUE INSTED

DESIC)

POSANOCAT

AND THEIR

4246

CHILD.

S. TIE ICULTION IN PARAGRAEN ONS IS SEING DISSCHINITED

TO YOUR PAPARSENTATIVES IN MONICO CATY. ANY FURTIER INFORLATION

RECRIVED CH THIS SUBJECT WILL BE FURNISUED YOU. THIS INTONMITION

IS BRING BADE AVAILABLE TO THE IMMIGRICION AND NATURALIZATION.

SORTiCE.

". Elting the restino o the bend unto dese

caused cose!

NA 55990-Docid 32374727 Bans 30

---

## Page 31

104-10196-10354

@ Ais asps mesides nonse

mei.

misjailed:

"GUSAKOrA" for

RRUSAKAVA..

Neither, of there issons she agnificant.

More iportant was,.

intrich

the phs cigitas f an unidentshins indiritual

steined sting out and sit f The Friest

desception fort.

i Henarison if the turn called we

Atting te

The can he gentin that this thier.

miscending if the Mices Stations sent

---

## Page 32

104-10196-10354

on life please; the denistine

details atticket to Osall were

as to lu

as far off the musk that they

trild mind sistent

minesite, neering a an ense

ly the recipent, (be presti

explanatin, if met iscalpaton, biit

restled that as of that winent.

Of somald to rife to.)

12: Confirmatins of this jüdgement Re

sent i7 2209 27ine I tir bones

---

## Page 33

104-10196-10354

late, ta Maxico Statero!

Crape ro

LES ESTALD NEO CLILED SOVENS I GOT FROBARLY IDENTICAL

LOUISTAVA, POTHER RIDAR OPSRATOR IN UNITED STATES ARINES

INCHES, OUS ALTERSO SIXTY FIUS POUNDS, LIGHT 300IN VATE HAR,

BLUs EYES.

•2. OY SNCT 1959 HS ATTEMPTED TO RENOTICE HIS UNETED

STATES CITIZO&SIP TO THE UNITED STATUS END IY MOSCON;

INDICATING ES EL APPLIED TOR SOVIET CITIZZYSHIP. CN 13 73B

T US EMB MOSCOT RECRIVED AN UNDAISO LOTTER FROM OSWALD

DOSTHARTED MINST ON FIVE FEB 1963 IN WHICH SURI INDICITED

HE DESIRSO RSTERI DE JIS US POT AS MISSED TO RETURY IO ESA

IT "IS COULD CONS TO SCHE AGREEINT CONCERNING TES DROPPING

OF ANY LIGAL PACCOSDINGS AGAINST MA" ON 3 JULY ON HIS DAY

INITATIVS HIS APSIRSO AT THE BAD HITS HIS WIZE TO SEE ABOUT

201-257245

HIS ROTUY TO STATES. SUBJ STATEO THAT ES ACTUALLY BAD NEVER :

LILIED FOR SOYIST CITIZGNSAIP IND THAT HIS APPLICATION AT

100.463

•COORDINATING, OFFICERS

AUTHENTICATING

SECRET

dectassificalion"

_.. OFEIDER

REPRODLCRON SY OTHER THAI THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

• Copy No.

1 0099

NW. 65990 Decld 32374797-Page 37

---

## Page 34

104-10196-10354

TIT TRE HAD BEY TO ROLLIN IN USSA AND FOR FEERART INTESICI

OF HIS TOURIST VISA PENDING OLTUCHS OF MNS ASQUSSE, TEIS

APPLICATION, ACCORDING TO ESTALO, CONTAINED NU EST TO SUTISE

CITIZONSHIP. OSWALD STATIO TRAT END BSAN EXPLOYSO SINeS

13 JAN 1950 IN BELORUSSIL RIDIO AND TY FACTORE IN MAST

MISRE TORKED AS ASTAL TOES IN RSSALICH SHOP. OSTILD TIS

IRRIED ON SO APRIL 1961 TO LISENA MINOLAETTA PESATOSA A

DENTAL TECINICIAN BORN 17 JULY 1911 USSR. NO ADOS TRICES.

US ATTEMPTED ARSANGE FOR TITS TO SON MIN IN LOST SO SES

COULD APPEAR AT ENS FOR TISA INTERVIST. HIS LUSHIELY POT

VAS RETURNED TO HIM.,

tS: SIS NOSEOY STATED INENTT MONTES

OF RELITESS OF LINS IN SOVIET UNCON LEO CUSTALT LAD LIATRINE

EXESCT ON OSHALD.

127557 SIDOS TISO TAS ANCESTORY RASA Mr 3909

SAYTYG EDICT HAD DETAIUTSSD OSTALD IS STILL US CITESY ID

BOTH IS AND HIS SOVIST TIE HATS EXIT PERMITS LiD DEDI STATS

HAD GIVEN APPROVAL FOR THSIR TRIVEL WITH TIZIR NUT CHILE

TO USA.

TIONTIALLED

•I9S129.

COFFICER

REPRODUCTION:.

CaNADINATINO OFFICERS

-SECRET

OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE.

AGTHEYTICATING

OFFICER

PROMISITED.

Copy No.

---

## Page 35

104-10196-10354

The bad guests astrandt fud buck

yal criest description stirsd

to incong ng it with the, phot?

ts mistified mate, it hig these

tum mattics apest is nicestigatos fais,

the sung are Mexico thatin

sast

Try the please, aren

i Mexico

if the lee Gwald in

Mijin el and Subent on the San

*NU. 65920 Docid:32374797 Page 35

---

## Page 36

104-10196-10354

Itanther

122 No 1963.

Plexic G5 statio And dow all it apill

milet in Anald lead been alterg

hats, in they wishing tes and in the fill.

ly donald if report less is it i

is any case, buen wits a phat gungh it

world have take, way Best 4fus tiger,

Leg the artes interester US. azures of lane

_NW/ 65990 Dockl:3237

797 Page 36.

---

## Page 37

104-10196-10354

ridi a practice noten lafication do rescin

also.

Then mate, men i met it,

22 Neen lee 19t3.

15. On z2 Nevertin

1963 the Mexic Cr55

aT: 221252 fini,.

art I lee Dant in emiet

with is essensate and defiremen;

it contia tell messing 9957 mind

REQUEST PRIORITY POUCH PHOTO OSIVALD SO THAT STATION

CAT CHECK ALL RECENT KNEN COVERACE FOR HU ORVARDING

SOONEST COPIES OF ONLY VISITOR TO SOVEND EUCT WId COULD

BE IDENTICAL WITH OSWALD.

Ca

Its

14. It is can test Mezico Station Lind liste

NW 65990 Dold:32374797, Page 37..

---

## Page 38

104-10196-10354

that the accurat discretion of Bunch

aided ly

But th chag

michael

Genuid de.

extimisting and neitherited neven fall

it testical and plasti grative costelligence

Gas dispatch tues prepreed in accondoes

mett the indicatio gues in the Gratite 7

a Nosember, uter in pana is above, the

dipate, noted that plat emerge ted

the micent ten micheded hand been

NW 63598

---

## Page 39

104-10196-10354

Kittlice it to Pruit and Clon Sheng,

requestice the test pi, 22200-11963

reachedare copies of the unli plotographs obtained tenging

fon! October 196% which appeare to be an American. Th alme man visited

Suviet Embrysy on 1 October 1963.

2.

Copies of these photography were shown to The U. S. Ambissador

n 22 November 1963 and a copy of cach of the two photographs was given

P. S.

of dispatch.

Photographe these were ken ingre invested after typing

person entered the Gular

Embassy:

19. That the Spiter wos working with posed

draft in aggrant from the test o the ds ports, whene

intens a mister in fort beats a portsant.

That fast, was It nined armittenting

1. NEXI STATION HAS PHOTOS SANS UNIDENTIFIED AMERICAN

YPE UNO IS POSSIBLY OSHALD ENTERING CUBAN ENRASSY QI 13

OCTOBER.

SEARCHING FOR POSSIDILITY PHOTO-DOCUMENTED ENTSY

CUBAN EMBASSY OTHER DAYS.

2. ALSO A.

TEMPTING ESTABLISH OSWALD ENTRY A:D DEPARTURE

MEXICO

TAW 65290-Docld: 32374727 Page 39

---

## Page 40

104-10196-10354

ijrge da do tpeze cane re iga?

Ireme iin eee6, ihe ehegrug eadlsdlifge,

18. snttienes titi,

te Chup 01 Stts ibericrts ispsteducits

Ley torbl tatle tiliptores corth, ths, Zee

Wentrn Hersinplenee Glisif 1/ Spites, Jl. Krin, pPa

gist if whnt ite tunepeinds i cnigdi

itsat mit, larte t

Lebig t, e95, mundss

fron Bello t-P6i

mustethien

Atrns es lugee cstcte ane te

dimbisato o2

килін

The wext dinelpennient

is teant, reflictes in a pressaal veste

buy th, clisf ay Slitin, t th, Wt thin seos Chit,

mailed, finn llactos togittin wie ennis

iftts photezraghs dag the 761 ngesscatati)

-NWc5890-Bosld-3237479sRage40-

---

## Page 41

104-10196-10354

ly endle (802:447 turi, 23 Nir):

FBI agent Kept here 2ins lica

this setti tive cries cach

for chid.

telepitione

at want ne Safe tenta

Arge regended 07222 thi

23Nwr1563s

reguent;

-......

1. NO NEED SEND STAFFER WITH PHOTOS. WE HAVE ASKED NAVY FOR

PHOTOS AGAIN.

BUT MEXI CAN SEE OSWALD'S PICTURE SOCVER ON THE

PRISS WIRE.

HAVE JUST RE-EMPHASIZED TO ODENVY HORS THE SENSITIVITY OF

PHOTOS YOU ARE SENDING AND ALSO RELAYED NAMES OF TRAVELERS

VITE SIMILAR NAMES. NOTE RADIO SAYS OSWALD LIVED UNDER ALLAS OF

0.7. LSE.

---

## Page 42

104-10196-10354

no deliried than t I, 781 73 de1 165:

J.04KING]

feterence is made to our coavereation of 22 doveming

I reguested parmiagion, do give the Legal Attache copies of pioiagía

¿curiain person who is inorn to you.

Alached are copies of each oi the photographs we have

with the

datey of täe viait's stamped on the back.

Alú p.m. Mexico time on 22 November, The Ambassador decided

taut this wa

a important enough to have a marber of the Legal Niciche'a

oftica take copiea of theme picturca do Dallas, Texas: The Naval Mache

is makiag a special fight from Mexico City for this purpose. The Ligal

Acacio's olicer who lo going to Dallas has promised to maillthis material

to you for me.

Copiss.of these. photographs are also.being. sent by pouch which will

leave, Mexico City on the night of 22 November 1963.

Beige

wishes,

Win EScoTT]

letter

to the sid, lied comment on thi

the lugal Citialis office

Los Eldon Puss

drape da haron o to

19.

The decision to remit the plast gunds to the, te

weat des 781 agins deposture reposted to g

---

## Page 43

104-10196-10354

2 Euras et 1:292 turi, Appresenis

Magis itt:

Re 7isl ango to the plates

B tra in han pon

Prestace Magico

lits of the plats and

das chechig all pertment all

Niv

Cred at thi pristi Mipico Cat5 stita,

azudis

phato suit t Dallas were ust

identical mets hee trad, tela

plates.

Mexico istiten,

, Attori all austatle

flirto o pesan entesag somest

and callai Paghanscen.

(22:542 tri, 23NN 1963)

Tro touss lite the stato sporter

tus routh 17,

Ha to quitale unite.

Ww.s.5990.Docld:32374797.Pane43prs

---

## Page 44

104-10196-10354

Cocange:

Gongesti rechen of plastes Tall

mit 5 Gala Calors pren

flirts stras ni widme: 7

Gild nint.

Note, ride,

-NW 65990-Docld:92974797Rager44

---

## Page 45

104-10196-10354

36. With their cominesics tons the hesita, ? 76

and It the Is, the bin ment i

Grald. Thestetal, lin This agphid

sopress to Me titan, thered.

this 1501991 quet

32. Dis not lone plain i

deal down bandith, seeth, all itors

or th tand dared that here a

NW 65990" Docla:3 2372797Page"*

---

## Page 46

104-10196-10354

all signa ione 2,

doye de y di dingde el agente esti

in the swidance of se perfromine.

Mus a esitical factos, fo simple,

Teat no plant pl Ganaico sumo

anid by, the fiald- or thent it mas

before the, 220 7 Noventes. Aplat-

graphe of Bowald cole line aboriate

in a way the mese posesion of a

conet physical trinet, cod witt

the white succionie detiratios

-W.65990 Docld 32374797. Page 46

---

## Page 47

104-10196-10354

/Ditats 1963, t into a carise

intimisia mirit Equal, hem,

shand be the deministraton of

motting contased or eypises

descended to that print in res

Stales in the USSR and muder tille

neste ele neto plan

W.659902ac0:32374797 Page 47

---

## Page 48

104-10196-10354

enicence of congainy.

and ballparent

38. The Genesis z ODum Exhubit Nol and

Coming tige is Fl, Bandme

I stred me of the sir plates

I flower up form Mies it, thes

precion dry to Canines' mitter,

Marguerite Dswald. O3UM himself

look trimmed the off the backgro

hey straight wet, Mr. Cowold ont

had no resignation of the image in

the plutigraph. Bandwell? arse ileticks

account many be found in?

thesis Estati

Homing it, we xx pee,

-MW65990aHlosld-32374797-BageAd,

---

## Page 49

104-10196-10354

34: The fatigrople oboo the michelies.

clinicial in a Bach shirt, IT ins

or f ths 5 plates takes of ties

in float of its onest Sabring in

days afts Osmuld had left the

city.

Kridentifisd-Individual miness

12 photisemples:.

but shanties,

11 Betaker

1253, in thing a

and excess

dich tesses.

NW 65990 Docld:32374797 Page 49

---

## Page 50

104-10196-10354

i dintoy

„crilt"

mentilinstaticletyrawd.cem.dosoronige

FNW66990-Roald 27074727-Rage,50

---

## Page 51

104-10196-10354

intuited transation o Catene ticines

Сітріл

invisa CALERON, allenano)

22 Nescuola, T955, DE 1730 Perico d, Fare-.

повії:

nei arred, matt?

insisive.

Silvia Dirizis der lueni caccia ne con et enge

Ze it4

past, strid, vizi turial.

Finire de magl

25аp22

conversaton.

amos are

→NW6 65990 Recld:32374797 Page 51

---

## Page 52

104-10196-10354

Cation dutie Grink d

12001.005

mate sha

thus ng at

Lister do filluto

lead ascines me Sight

163 0/

1963). The diganiz:

9414.

Enguis Vect derig:

n 27 and 25 Sepetember, Is the Caden

Me a cite Fire teturns,

lexindu gottenuin t0

Is tine singer atin at busin

His us mosto...

NW 65990 Docld:32374797 Page 52

---

## Page 53

104-10196-10354

Har statens Ile.

mapasmund

Ke Emitir Azar:

тив. інси.

instablished, in se

Lerigura

Ets dusin, t

superint.

Facts pon

guiation

NW 65990 Docld:32374797 Page 53

---

## Page 54

104-10196-10354

picas il di rag,

ti leghista

tint statini di auntt

ival tensi relatio fece sotter

destings with Giunte, dell-emisfe

enti

les dice the die mon the

I, fune di rigede, made inst taide.

do tu replicato di lunigied eseg

la de leil draga del suo a lame

NW 65990 Docld:32374797 Page 54

---

## Page 55

104-10196-10354

ditesalass

Parlerse alat lind un telan condéciée,

illent ener la reconnes.

ti lii question, illcio sortin dés naie

lines tingue titan des W) sement

uns suelique and sune, avec belare

theis suggest that

tirefou

+44494493650

NW 65990 Docld:32374797 Page 55

---

## Page 56

104-10196-10354

ima lei

sere interia te la fe so il gene

NW 65990 Docld:32374797 Page 56

---

## Page 57

104-10196-10354

Ficien 1u

Mestre?

diriones

4, 00)

a defet des ine in Cassiger 12

abinant do deside the angelicottons

2l amende, 1463

the couve satin deact vit thi racette of

justin volette son ducen lund duri,

in fer un fera tente, an, amis.

iticon interrogatra. )

Ce roi Ententes si Délice erai bote

NW 65990 Docld:32374797 Page 57

---

## Page 58

104-10196-10354

ritatic into Exclares.

dished ste

ta won he be then i to stas

did line him intrigues eft, teachina

Iricate 1

beatent muttered, what wes ih in,

dhemirte.:

Tant tid hit permit the stre to declunge

10-2%

Le's suming lis dis in tie

City, mede

milative with brine

NW 65990 Docld:32374797 Page 58

---

## Page 59

104-10196-10354

He senaria dan, clan

hild

H. The mout if ODUMs displig 7

the plstoyaphs the aspent, a cred

misin I re of this notes under

Osit alligator that she hind been

Jack Ruley, a day hefne he perpet, star

the did! Again, the Warsin Commissin

Repst

(+0-364-5,367) ashesting

wit not to reported lee

will not he reporter beer

use requisis no repetitino here. J

complicating fut ice vita

The arry was Mo Amuld cassiot.

" 65590-Doctars 2371797- page

---

## Page 60

104-10196-10354

Ure it Commissin, that the Odin

Le Commissim Exhibit 237 (su

disclopmento.

The net effect of the there

hi the opinions of the cimmiciden wars to repa

do adiain of the plant engle inte

Cab bood d

d, Conanssins in Workings) and

originates. This boorimes presto

FNM6589Q-Roc|d 32374797 Page 60=

---

## Page 61

104-10196-10354

for then selves and wist hi found

in thes

Hearning, vo. X1 pp. 448-20.

#3. Mixico City Hites And Ather; Semin.

Azing officers strong did adissed

It agent the publication of t pete

plagup in any for the the grazens

this the Soiet testy world

of a nsiful and still criting US.

intens Basation it the speration

would go down the drain;

it sost eric this not it,

they to

There were rested with the in prit

Actuas Acadportio avid Mexico lite,

-NUL 65920 Dodd 32374791 Page 61.

---

## Page 62

104-10196-10354

statin pots desing the simmere f

196 farid di prostita for 23 potentio

515 catalone 1964 milien the Station

Hies had plans wanderway to alondon

its operation.

44 be acceding to they best tit

Comminine request for a depritina

Mr them, theis in deputs bester for

apperatine

Plans regalid, I Me Portin l

accostsad ni for 1964 drives

press, riceded the fallening and i;

absoration;

"The cente butti zece lyrig

NW 65990-Doeld 32374797-Bage-62

---

## Page 63

104-10196-10354

45.

The nudo A this Commission

presides over thy this 4's

statuting abligation to protect souses

and mustarde, The I brident es

hidinidual" serines t this day

isntified aps the in

credebt exicuse, to sobout te,

assertias made leg Ms Helens is

Its concluding sontence of hiss

mineraudion It Me. Ranching, ne

23 June 1964, 0.. And the photo ofera-

NW 65990 Docld:32374797 Page 63

---

## Page 64

104-10196-10354

ester, did, is predicts, go down

this dision: Waitin a Slot wah If

to partic repeathe of t Own

smy dining dese notici

for sented space, hit clind thes

camina sole, Thi spentino sins continue

in my case, wettin a your it head

the's become aloust totill,

i situating wits the Enterny — a

chen sagin this this categing of

misits better this bein,

warned away by Is Sorest then siles

NS 65990 DecId:32374797 Page 64

---

## Page 65

104-10196-10354

INDEX OF, CONFENTS TELECTED

DOCUMENTATION FARD BEARING

ON THE"' UNIDENTIFIED

PHOTOGRAPH OF The

INDiViDUAL

1. Mexico Station telegrams: 6453

(IN- 36017) 9 Ditsher 1963. 1 page

if State

Octates 1963.

3. CIA Headquarter

a Cable to Megica

Station Cout

14850) , 10 Retsten 1463,

22:092 tree. 3 paige.

-NW.65990-Hoalds22074797mBage-65-m

---

## Page 66

104-10196-10354

4. Mexico Stationo telepam.

6534

(In - 40357), 15 Octitini 1963. 1

testical da Miquet

6, Musico Statono telepan 7014

(IN- 66781), z2 November 1963,

6. Privict Dispatch from Murico

City Statione (HMMA = 22533),

22 November 1963. LEnctries copis

I photo of the Unidentified Indiriduse

also in't rudes states 1463)

in is si a enter 1383,

(spage. 00:53

2 tame

8. Priate letter by Chuef of Statons,

Mr. JC King,

-W 65380-Docld 32374727-Page 6

---

## Page 67

104-10196-10354

22 Noverdre 1963.

(IN - 66846),

pirige:

il Mit stat toler -

statio

1963. (page.

i1: Mexico Station tele sam;

7027 (Ir - 67185) , 23N0 1963.

20:43.2 ture. lpazi.

12. Mexico Statens telegiania

7025 (IK: 67186, 23 Nor1563

20:342 tune) aul 7033 (Ini-

2746 Z tui).

-NW. 65990-Rosld:32374797 Rage f

---

## Page 68

104-10196-10354

=

559 Mento Sation legion 213 (Ta- 6511).

23, Rigio 1963

1236 = terme?

Eit Nip. telegramma

to Migico Statin

DIR - 8492/ an 94827m

23 No 1963

0136z fine.

07122 = tumm, regustmel!

l. pazi, sid.

7027(In - 67189)

23 No: 1963,

Mexico Pretens filezin

1963.

16:592 thor.

information I spore

13.

On teen If Mario Bite, It

ED -84888), 23N01563, 17:292 trie.

I paze

Mate 14. EThio is Mxicu7625 4 7033, such your

To: Musica state, tigen

In - 67189)

7029/883 N0-1983,

NW:65990-Boelds237479% Page 68-

---

## Page 69

104-10196-10354

17. Medico Statino: 7035 (Inr 67235),

23NON1963,

27 54 2 tor.

→NW 65990-RoGld 32374797- Page 69

---

## Page 70

104-10196-10354

18. Misaion

mcdurns.

Strtins,.

/l Gguail 196%.

Timesicey Roprentia a ware

відати (НА МЧА

3. piriga

33 8R5, enil 1s47)

19 -23 .

sond

TEs Entucqit 22, 28 bpetanh

1,3 он 163. 23m 22 anl

3, agus finhien,tes).

24-26

zi tuor phntgunt l eidentp

and leasring

27-29..

lasinidunl sin.

3i du qit ? h,

Meiea ls, pltada 1962.

NW 65990 Docld:32374797 Page 70

---

## Page 71

104-10196-10354

31-34. Merco fartin - CA tea conspirat

218, 29 May aside 26 one sod

3Jaly, 1963 islation t negative s

ful, 127: l page

36-7. Tunt of affidavite ls Bradence D.

ОдиМ, Tric R. MALLEY and Richard

Helms. Nearsige, N01. 81, 88-468-70.

UINCLASSIFIED

jet (feig, to X2789p691) and

Comician Exhibit 237 (Hermijo

vol XII, 8. 638). UNCLASSIFIED

NW 65990 Docld:32374797 Page 71

---

## Page 72

104-10196-10354

39. Extraits from Warren Commiseri

Report, page 364-5 did 16%, desting

vista do plastigane a The titanto fue

UN CLASSIFIED

40. A Selection 7 Pitmant, Dreamins

repents tif and Maico tastion

Reacten t and Handling 2 thes

Warren Comessiania Pablicatin 7

the Phots of the Chinchintifiel

Indistind, Sistenter @the 1964.

R. Horstro to the boreprable Besword I.

16 Man 1967, 2 pages. UNCLASSIFIED

vie any

1970.

NW 65990 Docld:32374797 Page 72

---

## Page 73

104-10196-10354

1. Carsomporedance srt, the: Pall 1.

HLOCH

I Aud 15 Norisles, 1971 Aand

24 anll 14 fai. 1971. Epiazas. UNCLAS-

SIFIED

'tin .

sesis sod sslated tf

44.

свя відо3к

ind) set Mr.

seinand Fiasts wold fs.

Alocoe2?

MII /8 Apal (2 M0R5); 4-18 7absux

sgaeb-(1 (97231-13

Ggaia 1972; 26 amd 2/ foe 1922 ; 2889

1 1s dngent 1922; ant, estesedine

Lay the Horratons

Fis tn, Fet mit,

il leton, o2= tezitt, sotts tor suporting,

45: pazio.

MW 65990 Desld:32374797 Page 73-

---

## Page 74

104-10196-10354

Fullest:

7. Kennedy Grim, mistine.

The attended, in me we

to aprico request if the thorid w. Been 4.

is a fillon up to questin $3

If his lustr to the Gizing 57.15 pil

1475.

hi - add mauce, nat evidence, t

salest the worse Committee and it

stiff has haid defore thim in 1964 pr

this sules it o

The seats of the revier ase stilated.

it the buts at port of the attach a

551997

NW 65990 Docld:32374797 Page 74

---

## Page 75

104-10196-10354

Tet dimentaters do trish

withs rigu...

Them seemed the no mate;

attich it annes opts Elsent

NW.65990-Qoclc32374797-Rage-75

---

## Page 76

104-10196-10354

In:

Backs can

as at uncereal for him; angressed at

at Brazilians Enter, reception i tr

to a impane noticin bey thi

treated Priso enpredent Damiel

HARKER'S

an Sanely, Santana p, and Was

in print straigion the crity. re

Mneday Sintender 999 There Can le

the Caste agesence, tid his agrement

I the intervier, theis this seat ages.

ated a neve-than andinary

actempt t get a manage thengt

register on the reind i de

NW 65990 Docld:32

---

## Page 77

104-10196-10354

# Caster's stateme

contes Hits:

The Niecter titerin

It set a ne, a range 7 tria

Batista if les tames... Its mist assistinate.

annies brief all tain.")., the

wis refinis to truster Great

It with wise bad other sortet an

To Sator Goldst pand Cabor delay

NW 65990 Docld:32374797 Page 77

---

## Page 78

104-10196-10354

at castin" message,

mesdulates.

In New Oslai, where he Irasy

seided intel the middle of Saptentis

1963, the HarkeR strag aperis in

the principal neing newspop,

Its TIMEs - PicAYUNE an Mandes, SarT

19, page seam meded there

artinia hendline: "Costro Blost

Raito on Cubin: "Sags U.S. becadir

stay the freed wantin its tackin

*NW-65290>Boslds

1797-,Rage-7u

---

## Page 79

104-10196-10354

Caster watercien wes crusichsed, in

fallen ay ter let in in cheching.

with the the wisen Concessin and

is 8/077,.

Obstin sept for

Latthangh Mie Station

pertines inter, treatin

reconsider be ang Dads arteris

it on the assumpter

(

tent as an

I avid muse rest Be

tige cry which the tower from

Maria Cows ef terming and atten -

he read the techoe Costs wasions,

and threat a repostes alim.

- 4W 65990-Docd:22374797 Page 79

Ал -потисті

---

## Page 80

104-10196-10354

Эбет →

The reads if the resie-aitted,

beanly tita t 26:20

quality of hind tyit- may he

sipulates mi summar cadete

The is no merement of tidese 7

4 fussion smit el cm prettie,

intelligene or seit sinice nivatiment?

wits to what was descaped sind

considered la, the warse Carinason,

tristat a

is it state m

1 The Communit

filing the in ten i met ot hi,

7. JFK and office Tippett and did

ind of his are determinatin

test them in alone, must stard.

significant

as prodit, their judge del (ad die)

mat wist in loansto talion

-NUL 65990 Docks:32374797 Bage 8l

---

## Page 81

104-10196-10354

rent i on igane/ eenin

enamiao uise arincnial ini

wuitit aid

e zi fiatitaturis, daij.

te dinin t hegsatrey comer

Wivire

2325

agh a beliep.

ra Det

stig

ten snmotnet tu te, mn

mi tte Sricieta Umii

Zand hi

-NW:G5990~Doald 32374797-Rage81

---

## Page 82

104-10196-10354

of this krad and thent wicked was thes

dors in ate to minute pe, price-

component in 1967.

O be ate 7 additive, credie,

I mistend, in the light o the.

schemining

These sis,

i. deri

timent get potental i fine.

intent

jeet artine emiliane Extraso

rmM-6599Q=Boclds

Ale 999.0

---

## Page 83

104-10196-10354

pride to joint purestern o small.

fie, identitients with Fide intro

late ten strinch ti de

• .

(Big his.

Calupunni

E old and litro the has

Entin SEtter 5 to Al Rangersin

stole me peston of the water?

bith thee was any ford here,

Mr sun secure, catere it duns

Orated, is the

allows

weat the Entre angies

-M 65990-DoG/d-32374797 Bage 83

---

## Page 84

104-10196-10354

which tiscuits it you the intaneir

its ree gifine. The Understar Pat

ded A revisite (Sat 9, p. t-7) which,

similarly, smitted any refreine to the

main thunt A Cater remin. Thi

avalation

Ermin stee pinters the Hacken sta

near, in it inter toot tout of

in the scenter section 1 toge

the content of then taster inter wier;

plocing the emplosis of thi fa political

aspects-m pastiador higleting the 6022-

with ilment bat and hunging

the casters explint the wring to us.

lindushing in the middl ter? 12

thes preis..

Comin

There is no evidence in the peter Te

-NV 65990 Rocd 37374797 Page 84

---

## Page 85

104-10196-10354

with is illit its danceedy:

Виіяни,

'hintin

arusight cuba minter at a

Indus lane after the say of Pige

frchise.

NW65990-Doc/d;3237479/Page 85

---

## Page 86

104-10196-10354

Lie iferen

tan Critat ante Osso de e lante Cana Calefonia, E

145925 The testag 2) Medio DElliDo ernes, 25

prende: 590006111 denig sperialist tennis,

jinid at El Toro Maris Copo tere a 7457

ile 58-t4i7: 1259. The Warea Comminin fint

fules not ofthis:

"Osold tes Delgido Mit de

at funt took it lee.

lise,

hat leti titanis ti sis.

1.

(Wah. 1964), 8. 687; Nere afts citis as,

Rent.

NX 65990-Rocld: 32374797 Bage S6

---

## Page 87

104-10196-10354

tin is reflected big the dang wage fis egos?

and does m? die it tave nice issue dron

with the liken i start with, i

question sease.

Te puind was me of tensitan in US-

Cutore relatin ofte tester taless.

Ested, and tigade at the sutsit, were

testified:

I didi her in be it

the beat, Thing

bin lenn us it get in Ench

wait a lates.

not a Chine ta Pet i

this air were i friendl, twis smit,

NW 65990 Docld:32374797 Page 87

---

## Page 88

104-10196-10354

anel perfezio des due delizie e giri duro

"didint lupper selenti demone lucia.

I feld inas ti ser tren.

critont coté, them......

"... l eun this enache en in leis frattale,

po alcili

I res a mess

NW 65990 Docld:32374797 Page 88

---

## Page 89

104-10196-10354

finn dute de ered dale le diritte bernleny

'ameno"''

bello se that he filled to??

"Me ideando, No. No....

Enarcat, ?

e sotta, /te le date a tira

... and be alo, stratel siccion

contan

'ne, lout it mont a cliente.

NW 65990 Docld:32374797 Page 89

---

## Page 90

104-10196-10354

"studio, lueue chey asite, in frees, ins

tin there thing

Calm arrantate?

him in Mat ng the, ng a hug,

in Later,

"Ah bucketer

lite ttat.l

much interegtes.

lind it work to do,

Wense the tree

did ash to ae that ye ages, you.

tnor..

"Mi luckele. Get to tick

NW 65990 Docld:32374797 Page 90

---

## Page 91

104-10196-10354

"ple deletes did i ence licate your

wit, the

grang - nuce lu got not if they Servie

besident Kennes,.

Moore 304) 866-511: 241-243.

sinted igtarl195%,

Citates 675%.

jesting

in tea its cost ocedurity.

contacted st di feat it Too cour aus

NW 65990 Docld:32374797 Page 91

---

## Page 92

104-10196-10354

wa yireet

i tupi i in che iperting de Incine

lei flet

NW 65990 Docld:32374797 Page 92

---

## Page 93

104-10196-10354

ill scare.

a delicate cray for the den by a

penetrating bite does 5 gram 19620

desiching svent at the your it will

muiting. The cell leads, Mores VENDEZ

Zatta till dead said dit it.

incent t55 in binatic stone

set frescoup aussed ren are the politio

recording to perzurintion, this is wis

"ti eritin to present genio, 1962:

Pies gent agose hard been distine.

si saried all it sustains de couplinice

NW 65990 Docld:32374797 Page 93

---

## Page 94

104-10196-10354

poibe t et eg ange ecidin t asrete

incinsie i thaegei).

NW 65990 Docld:32374797 Page 94

---

## Page 95

104-10196-10354

Enigesatie Penrte ty belen

Tmid Smestreg

mi dla lezuee 2tail3es.

I sigi io

eisisen

soune, rprtion, ofii lhe dénuch, arsination,

indicatis at at de Seuet -eeglagon 7 Nir

Ho Celeon Tueil sectwng Ricaedo Sonits

boaicuand te sictit) teto erigee

raido on Cacka aud ittrr, mipilicatins

wats a hnst crutisy deptowet, chuduhing.

ncsh, di fitr almeritin:"... jait

whet and yoor wit see whet we car

do, Stavets hugpen csmms" Gshest

te mse sperifieratnt snhes wuaue

tazçer isnne Tassti rephiaiti "Jun

wait, guct wint,"

Ciha stisiadi?

(There dhatt inere pessed t de Warseans

Grinüni y bneoerneteen, 3 Manh S6t.

Trants wes sutseuir reperitif to himen

NW 65990 Docld:32374797 Page 95

---

## Page 96

104-10196-10354

it is c

n.

, Fires

I Echon denment to use insate

5. tu, Remit 4. 305,44

mis e

Amera tree doses, indical recaned deduche

E/1!

I mean ires in rigo and sher nut on?

NW 65990 Docld:32374797 Page 96

---

## Page 97

104-10196-10354

Roy Dobkin

Re abradado con in teren ti

6. Sue, REPORT, A8: 307-308.

asmeti in mil-Septante 1563 in ad

preca opito Color consulato in Merico C5.

the condens de the has win

Orando's Nicrenquan pecuest,

NW 65990 Docld:32374797 Page 97

---

## Page 98

104-10196-10354

sevice contes unto do con tie 32

The Climato sto spasticitis

cente representatin a the difficulti

that beat the wilstin, if obscoved

is miles.

stan story prisist alsopite the ingrad.

ment 7 it major premises. Li this

cose ALYARDO, l whose account

did mat territo fablic until

the publications 7 the Warrine Repest

in Getti, 1979= tallnd intens

If the presence in it, transaction, E

districtitiz

a Negso with red-dyed have.

*NW-65890-Dogld:32374797-Page 98.

---

## Page 99

104-10196-10354

di eman y Aeracio Duran, the Sherone

I Silvin tesa, Zitel clore.

sting pesonal antipatty, bitines.

Elena Garsos trenchant risti comminiani.

in the free 7 1969, th

le tat deet up a entra

stream of report and enead

interes and esti cute

1463, dA stiling including net

NW 65990 Docid:32374797 Page 99

---

## Page 100

104-10196-10354

The fist reinemes t Is 67740

spray f

= was sister, ins

Mexico Stalin

Merica die Rical ditie

1202 1864:

22227

and tem

NW 65990 Docld:32374797 Page 100

---

## Page 101

104-10196-10354

mudintel said that he si.

re of the the grigost witter

a doubt' at the p

clintin

Retice

Triplini added Rules i rice of de tres

bitters if Horos DuranI, who missings

his concors. The met Ostrild and 2

she wons di conned from ta

wants this. Others guest were the labr

Silvia QURANe, who she later bases

luce, Endi Chestero in mes

NW 65990 Docld:

---

## Page 102

104-10196-10354

Nivelig 1163 inhen the identits 7 7to

oT Its sty thee shortly after mans,

an officia in the Suntaint, 7

tune l ECHEVERRIA], and more

till he lind orders t locht

then t a sucall and obs cuse leith

in the contes if tries. Te were hept

ture this dang wander petent

thes they were in ding Whee

spis

On t 25 te 1965 and 5 fam 1966 in

-N4465990-Rocd: 32374797-Bage 1024

---

## Page 103

104-10196-10354

entin postiato mitilife et her

interest; the as almonte t

that she aid her sastes, Lind

ten rite weis endles dog Strang

ospie to atrio de she stanis

ting did rest quie a ve compilet

sting teen $i the behing officen

reduce to anything they said!

It is denied thist Is 61920.

the Legal Attral on 17 and 24

Noreatin 1464 Here informatin ded

he civilan to what the clane,

in her account $ Thram, Lat hid

mither substantented by inquires.

The 781 recitatin thin fre ex-

sidined tis matt, cred and raff-

#: +4349558730e

NW 65990 Docld:32374797 Page 103

---

## Page 104

104-10196-10354

A I CA cluet fits en 22 der 1865.

rid to is Cantonate +287411365.

PrET

had been toes by CALVILLO, as the thes

Vermint (Then detail chested int

affinite Chicks wor at thee

Hotel 72 23-24, 25-27; 0l 28-70

Noseal, 1963: )

Gustes an 776621967

rimbich Conso: contamins viciniteds

was the lahores are set and the hand

finess.

tt, clean.

t ClA and til a troo

NW 65990

---

## Page 105

104-10196-10354

resenter, a the GRo intercen

Jongun

dates of the Osts presence they.

See sting tina lind tims games

quence with to ellets s

attention call: Arounds alist.

regarding this Neget want the Red died.

glared fare the Were Connin"

cunt of the " tie Fend 1)

Sylvia term's At atlegate I intere

it it pussad crates with fall.

NW 65990 Docld:32374797 Page 105

---

## Page 106

104-10196-10354

Bushin

Comail, in Tania duelse a crate

its a load meis finest, dien

Lastigne |

I live antontend deed, at the

times if Mino consis in Site ton

1963.

He states bain at de; His. t

по - 5. в все

canton set it i milit

NW 65990 Docld:32374797 Page 106

---

## Page 107

104-10196-10354

my them thy rent in that

that night and jant the

mistin.

was 7131 kented.

it this prit, the matt, wis tarned ne

#to Mrime autorite colo detammis this.

Contiers is wisted at the Cunsenset, 7

Ely Minin hat bores Is face, year.

1959 and 6960. in that to had

hea pablial assists in

eating th

NW 65990 Docid:32374797 Page 107

---

## Page 108

104-10196-10354

middles.

as acide in th 1462 and lache Grittis win

ede on it leader, s dutie

No fritter wond mitte is sifletes in te

file in the contrican allegatin P Capart

fion the insertied clarines mindle

dug Continos abet his are prince at.

the christ, thiss is the additond

innie inte

canyon bite on an extended presid with

a Unis student greep.

- MV. 65990 Docld:32374797 Page 108

---

## Page 109

104-10196-10354

22 Noseskar 1963.

page.

i Met statio tolera -

10. CIA Has telegra to Mexico

station,

20:43 2 tune i l pange.

12. Mexico Staters telegrama

67232,231

22:46. 2 tri).

• i

NW 65990 Docld:32374797 Page 109

---

## Page 110

104-10196-10354

d..

device fution eligasm 6, 768: (In-66591).

'spire 1163, 12 3 = terre!

Aa!!

,1l. CHA Nap. telegrams

to Megico stater,

DIR - 84821 aul 84822.

23 No 1563

0136 = funi and 04:22 Z turn, regustinel!

I page, each.

•

Mic Men teen 03767

7027(In=67189)7

23 NoN 1963,

ÉDIR - 84888), 23 NO 1963, 17:292 time.

I paze

Ntmm17. EThio is Mxicu625 4 7033, Which your

15. pier ties team 702

1(146789))

Th. Music Startin tilegen

70291,183 N01963,

NW 65990 Docld:32374797 Page 110

---

## Page 111

104-10196-10354

17. t'epico Statino: 7635 (Ir 69255),

23 Nom1963,

2254 2 thr.

...=

.'"

sarei?

NW 65990

Docld:32374797 Page 111

---

## Page 112

104-10196-10354

Memorandin tri dt iera celss i ant

strtam itt Repueatice a varea

dispatche (11M41

n4t 33004, ц 1367)

19-23.

Tuxt

Entecept 22, 28 festrnh

24-76.

Ioidonidueal

fomiet banbra Myies 65, 37mhen)

22-2 3 i dut seni f inet ttin,

badinidunl

Mpealis, ltade 196).

Sarhorag,

NW 65990 Docld:32374797 Page 112

---

## Page 113

104-10196-10354

ne 18, 2n en an ears and

?, alone.

35. bette, bg. D38

Dor deput hit e

god, 177, 1 page.

36-7. Tupts of affidavite by Bradence D.

ODUM, Grue R. MALLEY And Richard

Helens. Hearsing: r1. 11-88-468-70.

UINCLASSIFIED

38. Repartuations if Oden Exhibit Nol

He (Hearings, vol XX 90691) and

Comician Extibit 237 (Hernjo

vol Xul

vol XII, 8. 638). UNCLASSIFIED

NW 65990 Docld:32374797 Page 113

---

## Page 114

104-10196-10354

deport, page 364-5 aid 167, deling

et de plats ist titelpuis

UNCLASSIFIED

.. (Cemiopiad)

40. A Seleatons I destinant, Droments

refletin, ge and Mico Histor

Reactins t and How thing 2 'thes

Waren Cominaia, Pablicatin 7

the Thate of the Uishutifil

Andricheind, Sisterten - Otte 1964

14. Letti dy ClA General Carmade, hanerense

R. Houston t Ih Hoegrable Beword I.

Batte eine tie Sein,

16 May 1967. 2 pages. UNCLASSIFIED.

NW 65990 Docld:32374797 Page 114

---

## Page 115

104-10196-10354

83. Crisapore dance sisti Me. Paul 2.

FiCH

I And 15 Nasate, 1971 pand

Ml4oiol: 1971- 8949980UNCLAS-

SIFIED

sest, sand relatast

Bernard Fraster cold fr. Bloss22

MIl 58 April (2 MORS); 9-18 Fibsuri

1972; 247-616n9 1872; 1-13

apert 1972; 26 al 29 fal 1922 d

2829

ostrisal,

itos Magico Spiten

43: porges.

-epit-spirit more

NW 65990 Docld:32374797 Page 115

---

## Page 116

104-10196-10354

ine / 60

Lee Kann Fontand File

7. Kennedy Genen, die ton.

The attest, in mitte i

is.i filou up ti questen 73

1475..

The southen on thase slourd, tas

him-add nuance, nat siácne, t

what the waren Committe and ist

stiff had laid he fore them in 1964 pr

This salie stis

The semets of the serier me stpilated

isteth-betse ait paras if te atrich -

NW 65990 Docld:32374797 Page 116

---

## Page 117

104-10196-10354

iutr-t.

-S.É.

itatitai

inetdecumentatis dilrsinhe

Iuia dibe- sonleaiit -

fur. weti ogo.-i

Farei

atrd ser esit pe tent

reguest,

: .

. .

NW 65990 Docld:32374797 Page 117

---

## Page 118

104-10196-10354

=.:

a flueday entering,

: Dia/ASsatends 1967, Fill Costio, ini

are at unsual for him, increased at

at Braziline Enter, reuption in Arms.

Eum norse mueal Castro seetmittual

to a informine infinie by the

HARKERS.

an Surely, Sistine 8, and when

Are day finitember 199 Thee Chile.

the Carte agreean, his li agriene

I the interne, thess this seat Ages.

ented a nee-themandining

adrupt t get a mirage tright

peter on the read ni do

NW 65990 Docld:32374797 Page 118

---

## Page 119

104-10196-10354

# Castro's staterins

late: Hits. The riftitue citeran

emeritet

it wet assa range this

=amnicam

a President Kenna, alon le

excoriates in intraordinari, provocatio

Batista if lis tames... Its must sintende

america brief ad tais.").

me definis to truster Gold

H The rites mie bad pile portiti

rich incomplementes, refiance

to Sator Goldent, parid Citi delay

Is menopaper, it Nid Joke

wastinsts, sure thes with a rut

NW 65990 Docld:32374797 Page 119

---

## Page 120

104-10196-10354

In New Orlan, where he Irony

seided intel the middle of Saplente

1963, the HARkER stray appeared in

9, page sean wed a there

Rects on Caba. Says U.S. Leader

stay them freed wander its Hacker

bey-louis:

NW 65990 Docld:32374797 Page 120

---

## Page 121

104-10196-10354

The realt if the neer-dientistly

liberdy still 37226 36-20

quilty of hind titt-many lie

@Tuce is no micrement

A pressin sout ca prestine, on

intelligence in suit, siece invalement

considered by the warsere Casinmason

was it staff. Pite

funding the tim t men t hih,

If JFK and apie tige and did

= them in alone, must stard.

reside cuider" that unes pest.

significat

as prodify this fidge det (and do)

india

i and widers chill

NW 65990 Docld:32374797 Page 121

---

## Page 122

104-10196-10354

of this brad and theat nied ts its

Carly is ito, Commite, intelligene

compinent in 1964.

ener

@hu the rebrare of additial, erecible,

Instaly, is the light of ot

• Pease it:

195e000

of gress potenta rigin.

Sentate"

auntie

NW 65990 Docld:32374797 Page 122

---

## Page 123

104-10196-10354

pipllle inel inedde".r.

ii..li

ylsei? detle dne.

Lilemnin.

a.uí.

élenecieten med, Bilel ier

ing's t.icses

itriag -nitatli iilo"?

ind, leg énion

(frtig lise.

unt culeme sentata, ihee s hrices

tanceabde al for tidde as lii Maru

El Toro, Carpansi

If-Osiarald rend Erstros tinedn

wralay i

Oficetem

Gikt mirin rep ilicat

ilhoueay

Entirs )Stitemt t Äf (torsgondin

iore ihe pestue of ti icent

lether thee wars auy fomd trne

Me wver Steemit, semin

niteet wre

Riscaadl, in Ili 'Culeania n tli derincris,

rery t es bees ast a arijato

mpre.iit's med. inilh,

towad,, кттот tfor

auuzess

wese dring lusing the summes 11963,

NW 65990 Docld:32374797 Page 123

---

## Page 124

104-10196-10354

deceivent

a! it,

Feded loved aptis the say if tige

-frides.

4040

• .

NW 65990

Docld:32374797 Page 124

---

## Page 125

104-10196-10354

Big section of ginal dignifierce to any

remeir 2to background of CHO's feehing,

Tarand and posts,

Ilelgado us probes the cleant groanin

mender S and e deing open it tini?

deSt-Let 1359. The Were Ennisen, yunt

files not ofthis.

is a trach cret, dela distruste

ficet in this crunch,; slide belgad

at fint took it be.

hiss, hat late helenis?

при з вік.

(ush. 1864), 8. 687. Mints We

Remont.

NW 65990 Docld:32374797 Page 125

---

## Page 126

104-10196-10354

ledeno pia. dmord, det iili dieng addöidnd

,aceljeideies de abceodinnitee disiein émno

did,uo lugior de latie décaiuneo lani.

l Fuld trini te dee trem.

dilto a cobid, le täld ene dee wa. an

ritent crdí, them...

"... l eun This ennclegen én liis fratlade,

TIEE

de lune oue mint ; ap uihr

Wmit tie e

wonled lure let higin es.

Bo l toid

rihin Suhait aho

tit, Lonen, aud a she

n wilet Trng

Thiy trilind napt,to wose

n dinot

NW 65990 Docld:32374797 Page 126

---

## Page 127

104-10196-10354

'fein polien

'me cheele. F.

i.d..re

reri'wirey

.i'..

d. reeo e ierrtag.

de.eeialy, dtve inngodil dnia deetiling, 'e

sr eppu.reuvenglnd

"'d iégando, cérant one lerme acni luelf, 2

aa....

"dte isclelen. Gon sere Ashedl Eoinseed cnloe tte;

Hellow sis that he filled t??

"'Maidelgando, Nis. No..i.i

"he hdili i emoi aiot thes

Emonçat, ?

"He idelgadsi l disl ; becaune i Stnn, et

smn toe Enmi

riecanin nicia.lú,

éi lota caté →tamo dlião, we 5

te setere ll el ei e l

wntret wett there lalon pinhe listt,

jestemg delite prugeluit and.

sithes peerpa,io.

1?

...aad be alo, strnte) eiccam

iton, ong ht, yaui hn

nergles pongntet

tihis

ange tre gut tonee dlumenh, gete,

rener, luvet int cumont a chodits.

inin

NW 65990 Docld:32374797 Page 127

---

## Page 128

104-10196-10354

"falclde. didee dlug midlet dl dpreud

"' alienue odi eraa,

deron?

l megad Gaf iloi dern deendsim.

"I'e bubele, ded you tonne juy dern, lo dierein

tinchem Aläng droe nie comala, damr ie

"eem ansndate?

"He stelgado, Well I tise it bre guntini tar tl,

Goled dite tus colo, yre buit

serit mete ene-

id, thaT.I

ennchat ende,s trufo sturgs

"the hucketer

it wn dy Y hr lith er pre eu ethi t,

"Mh Celgade, No. But le had tilf nue pris,

Tust dee treu, thit le ee, ene

-flint he cors leen,

mest fern them,.

and. tee thme ili

lued te sleitt, is, but (lusn)

hue patri tee to co,

ilequn ef Ch, Cangane

dudp niete"

sid ah t ace thati yee geni, tyru.

wowr

Me Wella. Si libe gr lt lien

,logiettaei

was aleat?

"Dásaido s Ato; lue dehat.

NW 65990 Docld:32374797 Page 128

---

## Page 129

104-10196-10354

"'ile inedilogs.

adee anccnndiale düyew

itea' itt iinei

alonseri."

vilia?

incao nn ncut

d'rreciinstin,

itoung aree.'6

ille iéelanoio Moo 12.60.4,

Tteng u lild me

snos silarg ringat ofts ne condl!

-tts innereisalo

stig f necel

he cno groig le braçoo lamndo....

sateos i tu, lensin.atia

iha z keenrely. Hetredie

Acdinia

Befra b4 Pesi -

AuTi cirmaciices

igeemtüaltüä) rf.

Pesicdet Kennue(/4056 :00) 1. TIs: e4-243.

Auemit, cnted is, HEtRIneS Em27st15glnt

Clasiz -

and de me prsemwule fingeriitien tifenk-tin ii

idstier fr dcidors, pan de Kone,

Üstiles 175%.

wicoeteng

irems atentine 'e th,

ep crutated st0 dl linte és tero emury aud

•-5 911-.

NW 65990 Docld:32374797 Page 129

---

## Page 130

104-10196-10354

end ugleto de gérien idision t

He weds, specent, at a minic quen

•24290

on some isol.

.:.

717G.

.7......

NW 65990

Docld:32374797 Page 130

---

## Page 131

104-10196-10354

e'y.

resoided eeuredo,e bengseis.

ill sseás

Bees = dúree7 é

Feteuolo-

s'atiri joruaeciled le igi eu ei firang isti"

an diepalinate crouy df de tde de te liy a

penetaaling sstabre doter 5 gaeny 19620

Lessiching treett ut thi your it'sillisen.

muting. Tie cill -leahe, Mloses sNVrER

Zalrta itttt deat wnin da

imamuat is5 ii ircatnis atond

quone a esuigh new praty: "We nean

uet eiesceury aureedren sra lla polícis

sip'unitut Kenies-lecaoe ine bncr,

nciording te perzuo shentuns, thers hs wiie

.Le enetin la presat genio, 196202)

Pie igent auosenly berck hen tüsrentes!

s te it fatini brti il lesd hum vecvir

aud euri mat forwanded mie te setens

ri iersned dl apiti ir

cuá tán

iuplinics

NW 65990 Docld:32374797 Page 131

---

## Page 132

104-10196-10354

dessinion, du né acces on décre

Telle o + 88-288-390-0

1190006 49

....

NW 65990 Docld:32374797 Page 132

---

## Page 133

104-10196-10354

Ecgensalie

da Ve éazace..

- lics.

joespiing deäaisoh

senene, reprrlisey afl, de iänned, dasinaten,

indicatioiait al ile Sreetizece, dess nu 7 När.

1963,

le ehea Funil seceting Picarda, Sinião

Pradiuenud he sictio?) sitel Bocigse

raido ne Caba anid ilia, inpplicntios.

wirts a hinst cutily deptouet, enuelnhing an

wesh, dhi fiséitet struerstin:"... jäir

wret and you wit see sahest me can

do, Stwee happen ame." Gslert

tu mose sepecifieratint otet cnne

hngian snnu tusti rephiaii "pu ne

wit, jurt wint?

Cinse atisiadi

(There dot inere possedl t dhe llrrcens

Erinmünin bnemezridun, 3i Mrd, Bit.

Tontis wes sudsequent, repritil t thoa

isozaie..

NW 65990 Docld:32374797 Page 133

---

## Page 134

104-10196-10354

ії Caul 1966!:

NW 65990

Docid:32374797 Page 134

.

•22000aus44

---

## Page 135

104-10196-10354

it "ice so

Unlean

-ё.

his ire Lallo,

sis in die

i times inter dead acred in Zagut.

1763). The gening fill his an e

Engunis tEst iereg.

a die natures, reches condit

Enter si sititia

alistin teaming nicestry

wa, agilication in t

tea: Live sure i the neit

L49.

phe sar

i lessing

is mista

terror

" ..

NW 65990 Docld:32374797 Page 135

---

## Page 136

104-10196-10354

"'..

linie inea.

in des, delle intion: den änderunter wits,

Lpeisenal

el Questio Azare.

==

1. city la tat.

nilzindia

egalished,

Lepost)

Fuessent prisent.

27540, 254 1630, FEets imicepe

seidin cound un pro tita

de en it

dità des

tit to tiefen

rennes shing, a jourcedane

NW 65990 Docld:32374797 Page 136

---

## Page 137

104-10196-10354

tango.

in regiert

There is die distines in ie inwalderse

é desense inner

iteriatet.

énti

eijerenbetes

He que die seigedig munde ist it .!?

Egalise drale affinit mind da

•?i.

: NW 65990 Docld:32374797 Page 137

---

## Page 138

104-10196-10354

De tera de mit fou, al it es

that vir sin ti condiud thint

and in the en, 'i alge se ti, Corti

un sutili que and sachl, dens

ni de bazan ios stetemat de de torn

this eugest thet

NW 65990 Docld:32374797 Page 138

---

## Page 139

104-10196-10354

.uno uno deitad ate come.

i.==.

NW 65990 Docld:32374797 Page 139

---

## Page 140

104-10196-10354

....

'sie

Herde

te ie.Lcten.

neewei in inindsegoe

eieeaás

i'siaia inn..

"no'marraosodneve

Iecen isere goded

Nerm. ifu dil crita iissiticiinn

shees chd

itiaient do dezeniie ie, bingelicitins

nu El ti Cuterceites tilig ine, ésiee

¡titicen'dãe te dalan innidoet, iduetiios

cund ta and ana dà in litevces , foaqun

ilemaudez faons du.can te licunt 7

ts eous gatin cealt wiet, te ses ?.

jrentin néeitio dun dsusen lendsutiti,

s pe eu frcaá ée eaie, ao, aeamia,

issisjatwet.auneyprimeas.densi.iee

isuicon initerrogatta. )

de rp 5n tendei onee

jizsis ez ee Slellan cäntrnn ist.

in il, femnag

NW 65990 Docld:32374797 Page 140

---

## Page 141

104-10196-10354

44:...

..

i same pistone artele

Litistesiete

E dele

Fint due ni genit in sporter ti dellange

Mo, 3,7;

Entite tee

int, ante

nicotinee esile fisica

''lannie ale verale ilejound

Ker 1579

NW 65990 Docld:32374797 Page 141

---

## Page 142

104-10196-10354

=en.

'co;

Ase. i,

Tere flee dents indicate biteserned.

-reaming, in age and elicade

erniels 5, in in tenue

iju.

Pal, Sergein, in lies joe (t

57,

NW 65990 Docld:32374797 Page 142

---

## Page 143

104-10196-10354

ine 1000.

saperare

ci solas et Eutrien

falate a demione,

Tind

Latico del do int mort

218.

---

## Page 144

104-10196-10354

Die thate don unidentified individual in the

warren Commission Repare: A Faceial

Chronolo dal Survey

REFERENCE: Memorandum ly David#. Belin to Mr. E. Harry Knoche,

15 Apria 1975 (Attachment A)

1. reference memorandum suggests it would be appropriate.

to reconsider full disclesure at this time of the circumstances

and factual data relative to the Subjevt. The purpose of this

survey is to permit a realistic evaluation of the suggestion.

2.

Background. This examination and summary: of the record

concerns a cropped photoyraph considered by the President's

Commission on the Assassination of president Kennudy (hereinafter

cited as the Warren Commission) and introduced into evidence as

Cau Exhibit No. 1.1 The photograst (together balDe

ween, with others of the same individuall originated from a fear

istelli spritie

amorites highly sensitive operation being conducted in October

1963 by the CIA and Merican security authorities against the

Soriet and Cuban Embassies in Merico City.

press +p

3. Under

the sectobes the extracdinary efforte to develop

information on the assassin and the assassination, copies of the

1 See Hearings Before the President's Commission on the Assassina-

tion of President kenedy (hereinasser

cited as Hearings), vol. xx.

"NW 65990" Dold:32374797 Page 1424-

2a7ti78 94079896595

---

## Page 145

104-10196-10354

photograph were made available by ClA's Mexico Station Chief on

Inter that day;

of the imbassador. copies

were Worked bitin Win Naval At

archie in conveyed by thE FBI

representatavo to the Dallas oftico a 2a posable unc

chopped be, to Fisi

n the ongoing investigation. Ohe photographyas shown t

comedi matters,

Mrs. Marguerite OsHALD, in Dallas on the evening of 23 November 1963

by FBI Agent nailwell D. ODUM:

A. The Warren Commission's Report describes the sequencé

of

events at pp.364-365 and 66f (Attachment B) which ultimately

resulted in Mrs. Marguerite OSWALD's allegation that sho had been

shown & cropped photo.of Jack RuBY, the day befare he murdered her

(A further complication leading

to this conclusion Mis

the fact that when she had been shown a copy of the same photo-

graph in her apparance before the Commission, it had been cropped

in Wordangton

by the FBI in a slightly different manner.)

.:.'

5. No detailf in the Warren Commission report illustrates

more vividly than this one the difficulties that beset sinple

truth in the poldticized, rigidly determined interpretive climate

about the keenal

assistin.

hat has been nurtured by the media over the past decade? Th

photograph, (now acknowledged not to be RUBY, has,

neatbecome a

Cantured t

2

present and

Len soone

#PROMEROMELERIO

NW 65990 Docid:32374797 Page 145

---

## Page 146

104-10196-10354

?.

1'9=7-99.1

have been "framed" by the use

of a double in his activity in

2

Mexico City.

6. Lee Harvey OSWALD - Reporting Mexico City Stay. Älthough

in no way related to Lee Harvey OShALD or his stay in Mexico City

fran the morning

DE. 27 My 1963 to the morning of 3 Oftoher 1963, at

Lintre ate

the photograpis of the unidentified man originated during OSWALD's

stay there. a It is( therefore importang) to an understanding of

i met do photograph by the Mexico city station to

review ther

stairbent what the Station ascertained and did with ve

information it developed about OSWALD in Mexico City, together

with Headquarters action on thef information, best

7. From all crediblyevidence known to this time (none,

incidentally.. added

since the exhaustively unique work of the

Warren Commission), Lee Harvey OSWALD spent 4 full days and

2 partial days--about 116 hours

in

all--in Mexico City from

about 10:00 a.m. 27 September 1963 to about 8:50 a.m. 2 October

1963.

ilis porft of residence was

a small commercial traveler

hotel, not frequented by "gringos"--the Hotel. Commercio

2 This is the thrust of the article "The CIA and the Man Who

Was Not Oswald" by Bernard Fensterwald

and George O'Toole in

the. New York Review of Books, a copy of which is attached to

reference (Attachment A)..

3

NW 65990 Docld:32374797 Page 146

---

## Page 147

104-10196-10354

E.T

where he was registered under alias, Exhaustive and detailed

interviews and interrogation by the Mexican authoritics and the

fBI established that in the recolluction of all hotel personnel

he left early and returned late each day of his stay..

Assuming, and allowing for the fact of late arrival and

carly departure, that he slept one-third of the time of his stay

(38 or 39 hours), there remain some 78 hours of activity to be

accounted for: overall, unre scInis

can

28 September and 1 October.

All' coverage by CIA during the entire period was technical. The

Station had no live source (living agent) coverage either unilateral

It stond be ninted tas.

or from Mexican liaison

swild was in no sense "under investi

gation."

None of the facts of his defection and stay in the USSR

and return to the U.s., 1959 - 1962, were so

so in Moxico

Station files before 10 October 1963, when the internation was

forwarded by Headquärters in response to

Station report of

whish head

a october forwardeah, on a routine kasis, what in to be an

my rmerican

contact, for a visa to Cuba in transit to the USSRo so This had

indicated and deduced from technically acquired irformation on

1 October, which was the first and orly occasion

in which Oswald

(partialles)

identified himself by true name.

At no time during his stay in

o.--

Mexico City did

the CIA ports acquire a photo of him...

---

## Page 148

104-10196-10354

PEATE

Ay a careful review of all coverage, voice intercept, as. well

as photographic, of both the sovict and cuban Embassies was minto cond

by the Station on

:22 and

23 November 1963 after the assassina-

cion, going back to materials from mid-ycar. It is, therefore,

firm that there was no CIA photo coverage of OSWALD at any time

it tap none i can"

or stay in Mexico City. Moreover,

despit

*request on 15 October, the Mexico station had no photo of

•÷.?

OSkAlD in it's records, nor did it recelve one from Headquarters

before 22 November 1963.

Being this inters soir a

10. Voice Intercept do

and sheist

by the monitor, on the

basis

of the 1 october intercept-which had been reported to

Headquarters and disseminated'to-the Interested.members.of the,

intelligence community (as. an e%-Marine, OSWALD was a Navy and FBI

case under the delimitations, and potentially of interest to the

Department of State) tumned up matches baised on content, inat ae

-annonroot identity, with materials intercepted on 27 and 28

These neatain see grites to Its, son 23 Not 3, Judges

September 1963.

Matches based on voice comparison lexcepti

could be recalled by the monitor--and this was not insignificant domant

because of the tirely poor Russian spoke by OSWALD) could not

be made because the tapes, in

accordance with the normal

practice,

÷ :

had been erased and re-used

5

NW 65990 Docld:32374797 Page 148

---

## Page 149

104-10196-10354

ALE

the

r. It mate be sati thay voice intercept and photographic.

coverige was not, processed in "real title," the nature cruisi-

tion and the volume of the information precluded anything but the

the

spot reporting of items judged by the monitor of more-than-

ordinary lives

interest and, therefore, noted in summary

•logs. Full.

texts of selected items would require/consultation

of the tape and either a full transcription or full translation

or both. Photo coverage tended to become available in quantity

lots which required scanning and selection on a rapid and

accellorated basisi

One of the "triggers" that normally operated

пити рен

to focus and acce blicate therspf review and reporting. of this kind

raw. intelligence W the mention of a name. Thist

was precisely what occurred in the second of two conversations

sold chion 1 october with the soviet ambassy, lun

ha (said

he was "Lee OSWALD," asht was this information reported by

the

station to Headquarters on 8 October 1963.

13. The Mexico City Station did one more thing in its report

on Lee OShALd based

on its 1 October voice intercepts: it coupled

this data with descriptive information it had acquired from a

collateral, sensitive

source--a photograph of a male individual.

apparently an American, who was observed entering' the

Soviet

this

Embassy on l October.

The

Station reported

these detaild as a

the speaking

6

NW 65990 Docld:32374797 Page 149

---

## Page 150

104-10196-10354

DRAFT

¿coincident

-Tho Station did not assert or suggest that the

Jata dace eras the photo was in fact OShiD, or indeed, i my

way related to OSwALD.

15. Lee Harvey OSKALD - CIA Coverage of His Mexico City Stay:

one additional element of background must be stipulated now as the

final precondition to understanding the relevance or irrelevance) of

the photo of the unknown individual' placed in the chain of

evidence on 23 November in Dallas by FBI Agent Boldwell ODUM:

what was the totality of CIA Midatept coverage of OSWALD's

activity as of the atternoon of the kend 23rd when all available

coverage had been rechecfed?

14. The totality of Nexico City Station coverage on, or

reasonably inferable to be USwALD, cunsisted of five (5) voice

-intercepts as follows:

a. 37 September 1963 (Friday) , 1605 Mexico City time.

Silvia Defalfa local employee

i Meican nationalines the

Cuban Embassy, Zonsular section, a receptionist, speaks with

an uninor? male at the Soviet Embassy: Silvia DURAN tells

the man that the American citizen was there, the one who

wants a risa for Cuba on his

way to the Soviet Union, and he

wants

to know with whon he

waS

talking there because

she

Dunno

(silvia)

had sent him to the Soviet Embassy saying that if

7

-NWe65990-Dogld:37374797-Rage-150-9

---

## Page 151

104-10196-10354

they accopted him

and yare him a visa, then the cubans (Embassri

would also give him a visa without further paper work, only

had talked there because he says he was told there would be no

problem.

The man in the Soviet Embassy says to wait a moment.

Sorel

Derow

A different ban speaks, and silvia

explains the same thing to

nim. This man says to leave/hame and telophone number and says

ho will call back, Silva gives the telephone 11-28-47 cousan

"Consulate). Brivia also takes advantage of the conversation

and states she

has moved and wants to advise the Soviet Embassy

of her change of address so that she can receive the

Somet

Embassy, Bulletin. The man says to call KOUKHARENKO

to give her

new address, then he asks the name of the Consul

or Cultural Attache. Silvia says the name is Teresa PROENZA

the telephone number if 14-13-26. The man says thanks.

b. -27 September 1963 (Friday), 16:26 MeNico City time.

a Smust,

An unidentified male, calls the Cuban consulate, asks

Silvia DURAN if the American had been there.

Silvia DURAN

says he is there now. The Soviet says the American showed

papers from the Consulate in

Washington, that he wants to yo

to the Soviet Union and be there for a long time with his wife..

who is Russian, but the answer has not come from hashington in

8

-NW-65090-Doclds32374797Rage151.

---

## Page 152

104-10196-10354

LIARI

respect to this problem, and according to this procedure it.

takes four or five months, but without haviny permission from

the Sovict Union they shculd ask, or bitter said, they cannot

issue

a visathere without asking washington. However.

according to this man, he showed a letter indicating he was a

member. of an organization in favor of Cuba and that the Cubans

said. that they cannot issue a visa without his having a visa

for: the Soviet Union, and now he (the Soviet) does now know

what to do with him (the American), because they have to wait

for an answer from Washington.

Silvia DURAN agrees the same probiem exists with the

Cubans, that the

problem with him (the American) is that he

does not know anyone in Cuba and therefore if that is true it

will be difficult for him to get a visa for Cuba, because he

was thinking

of processing his visa (for the Sovict Union);

because he knew it would require waiting a long time for his

visa to the Soviet Union while in Cuba, and from there go to

the Soviet Union. The soviet said the thing is that if his

wife right now were in Washington

she would receive her visa

right now, or permission, from the Soviet Union, to return to

her country, she is going to receive her visa in: Washington

but having this visa, she could communicate to any place this

permission, for example here or any place she could receive it

9

-NW-65990-Doeld:32374797 Page 152

---

## Page 153

104-10196-10354

lisa or permission!, sut.righe now they do nöt have them.

SiAlIa DURAN says certainly and they cannot

give a lotter either breause they do not know if the visa will

se 'approved.. The Soviet says they only?

vo visas according to

indications. Silvia aURAN says then she will put that on the

list.

The sovict sars he cannot give a letter or recommenda-

tion either because he does not know him (tha merican). and:

asks to be excused

for bothering her.

Silvia DURAN says that

is all right and many thanks.

c. 28 September 1963. (Saturday) , 1151 Mexico City time.

silvia DURAN Calls the USSR Embassy

titles

and to in unidentified

Soviet i(says

that in the Cuban Embassy there is a North.

american who was at the Soviet Embassy. The Soviet says wait

a minute. Silvia DURi speaks English with someone--and

comments in Spanish tiat they gave APARICIO telephone 14-12-99

and to take the number down--Silvia DURWN then says the American

citizen is going to talk with you, i.e., the Soviet. The

merican first: speaks fussion and the Soviet speaks English.

They continue in English. The American talks broken Russian

and says I was in your Embassy

and spoke to your consul. Just

3 minute. A Soviet tates the phone

and

asks the American in

English what does he dant? The American says please speak

10

AL65990-Rocld:32374797 Page 153-

---

## Page 154

104-10196-10354

PRACT

Russian.

The soviet says what olse do you want? the American

says I was just now at your imbassy and they took my address.

The Soviet says I knew that. The american, in hardly

recoyniz-

able Russian, says I did not know it

then. I went to the

Cuban Embagsy to ask them for my adress, because they have it.

The soviet says why don't you come again and leave your address

with us, it is not far from the Cuban Embassy. The American

says I'll be there right away.

1. October 1963 (Tuesday) , 1031 Mexico City time.

an unknown male (American) calm the sovict Embassy, the

Military Attache's number, 15-69-p7, and says to an unidentified

Soviet respondent: I was at your place last Saturday and

talked

to your Consul.

They said that they would

send a telegram to

Washington, and I wanted to ask you if there is anything new?.

The Sovict says I would like to ask you to call another phone

number.

Please write it down: 15-60-55, and ask for a consul.

Thank you.

e.

1 October 1963 (Tuesday), 1045 Mexico City time. The

same person who phoned a day or so ago and spoke in broken.

Russian speaks to OBYEDKOV (a Soviet Embassy guard). He says:

This is Lee OSWALD speaking. I was at your place last Saturday

and spoke to.a

consul, and they said that the would send a

11

**NW 85990*Doeld:92374797-Page 154mm

---

## Page 155

104-10196-10354

¡relegram co washinaton, so l mintiù to find out if you have

anything

new? But I don't remember the name of thät consul.

ObvEnRow says: NOSTite. He is dark chair or skin-al.

OSKALD says yes, My nare is OShILa, OBYEDNOV says, just a

minute, I'll find out. They say that they have not received

anythiny yet.

OSWALD say's: Mave they done anything? OBVEDNOV

says:

Yes, they say that a request has been sent out, but

nothing has been received as yet., OSWAlD says, and what . .

OBYEDKOV hangs up.

intercepts, were

discussed with,

and cramined by the warren

Commission staffer

An hanuarter and at the Monieo city.

station

NW 6599006414:32374797-Page*p59

---

## Page 156

104-10196-10354

3. The warren commission group that vinited the sexico City station

consisted of Mr: COLEMAN, MI. SIANSON, and Mi. WILIENS. They

cramined not only thelintercopts i throughy above, but others for

the 27th and one for 3 october that Supermilto have relevance.

These have not been included in this summary because they appear.

on review, to be excludable from the OSWALD matter on logical or

substantive grounds, or both, bearing in mind that the sovict embassy

receivch many calls pertaining to visa matters.

on the 27th at 1037 the/mbassy recelved a call from an unknown

individual who said he wanted visas to go to ddessa. He was told

the consul was not in and to call back at 1130. OSWALD 1s known to

have arrived at the Plecta Roja bus terminal on bus 8516 at

ca. 1000 on the 27th.. It was, thercfore, possible for him to have

Bit

made this call. granting this, it scions unreasonable to belleve

the calls were OSWALD's for the following reasons:

a. The caller wanted visas, and specifically for Odessa.

OSWALD was seeking a visa and never in any fter context dia

he specify the Black-Sea port of Odessa as a destination.*

b. The call was directed to the correct Soviet consular

number: 15-60-55. on tha It October, OSWALD first called

the wrong

number, 15-69-87 (the MA's number), and had. to

redirect his call.

to the correct number, 15-60-55. It seems

unlikely he would have made what would have been his initial

call, on Friday the 27th, to the correct number, and called

the incorrect number on l October,

..'

c. There is every reason to believe from the context of

paza 1y

the intercepts

a through e above, that OSWALD's first destina-

tion after arrival and check-in to his hotel, was a visit to

the Cuban Embassy.

d. The use of the Spanish language would exclude OSWALD

unless he made use of an intermediary, which seems unlikely

pa pinat is known of his modus operandt.

1 (footnote)

974544727

NW 65990 Docid:32374797 Page 156

---

## Page 157

104-10196-10354

FOOTNOTE 3 (continuatioul

on 3 October at 1539 an individual speaking broken Spanishi

then English, called the soviet Embassy and asked for a visa.

The Sovict respördent says: Call on the other phone. • The reguéstor

says: I'm looking for a visa to go to Russia. The Soviet sy's:

Please call on the telephone of the consul, 15-60-55. The requestor

says: One moment please, I'll have to get a pencil

to write

the

number down. They issue the visa there? the soviets That depends

on your conversation.

I don't know about this business.

Please

call the office of the consul and ask your question. The requestor

asks for the number again. The Soviet gives him the number and

toils him to ask for the Consul of the Soviet Embassy in Mexico.

The relovance of this intercept to OSWALD is excludable on

three grounds:

a. The use of broken Spanish. OSWALD throughout used .

to landle

He had no competance in spanish fit

b. The substance of the request indicates a visa request

in the first stages of initiation.

OSWALD had developed his

the presenn dalisti

to a point well beyond

OSWALD had left Mexico City, based on all the credible

2 artilen

evidence, the early morning of the previous day, and could

d' not

have made this local call.

2 (footnote)

NW 65990 Docld:32374797 Page 157

---

## Page 158

104-10196-10354

DRAFT

Eache

1g.

Of these itons, including the tests

of the raw

intercepts, were reny, alscuased with, and examined by Harren

Commission staffers in Headquarters

and at the Mexico City

Station during

a stay from 8 to 13 April 1964.3 (footnote is

on a separate page, but should be inserted in the final. typing

as part of the continuous text.)

buildi

1ộ. Summing up, we can state, or reasonably infer from the

evidence, that OSWAlD made the following contacts with the Cuban

and

Soviet official establishments in Mexico City.

a. 27 September 1963 (Friday). After arrival and check-in.

to his hotel, OSWAlD went first

to the Cuban Embassy where he

talked with Mrs. Silvia DURAN. The time of his first Cuban.

Embassy

visit is unknown. The time of his sccond Cuban Embassy

visit was about 1600 (i.e:, just before closing).

Sometime

between

the two Cuban Embassy

visits, at Mrs. DURAN's

indica-

tion, he must have visited the Soviet Enbassy. We have coverage

only on

the

second Cuban Embassy

visit.

We have no indication

who he.

talked with at the Soviet Embassy.

There

was no

photographic coverage of OSWALD's entries

into either the Cuban

or Soviet Embassies on the 27th. The lack of coverage on the

Cuban installation is explainable: the camera, based on the

recollection of officers still in service in Headguarters, was

• 11

NW 65990 Docld:32374797 Page 158

---

## Page 159

104-10196-10354

PRAFE

down en the 27th because of mechanical malfunetion, which was

in course of correction.

profable,

ity OSWALD was missed in his entry to

the

m1274

scriet installation

is not jet explained.

23 September 1963 (Saturday). Note: Both/Cuban and

Soviet imbassies were closed to the public on saturdays.

Photographic coverage was normally suspended saturdays and

Sundays. OSWALD, notwithstanding the holidayschedule, went

on Saturday morning to the Soviet Embassy (his second visit)

where he spoke to a consul. He apparently could not recall

his new

Texas address.

At ca. 1l51 he went to the Cuban

Embassy--his third entry--where he had registered it in his

visa application the "day previously. He secured the address

from Mrs.. DURAN and she called the Soviet Consulate presumably

to permit him to give them the

address over the phone.

Instead, the Soviet with whom OSWALD spoke over Mrs. DURAN'S

telephone invited OSWALD to come back in person, and

he said he

would!

(Presumably OSwALD thereupon went back to the soviet

installation (his third entry) torive than bis-fetas adress.

c. 29 September 1963 (Sunday). No activity registered.

•d. 30 September 1963 (Monday). No activity registered.

(It is known that OSWALD reserved space this date on a Mexico

City-Loredo bus, departing ? October 1963 at 0830.)

12

NW 65990 Doclar32

1797 Page 159%

---

## Page 160

104-10196-10354

DRAFT

c. 1 october 1963 CuesuaLl. OSWALD made at legs: iro

calls, at 1031

and 1015, to the Soviet Embassy. He identified

himself twice during the secend call when he talked with

OBYEDIKOV--a guard--and referred to his talk on Saturday,

kalinite

dotebketh there would have been no reason for him to go to the

Embassy:

His case had clearly been placed at the sufferance

of the USSR Embassy in Washington. His two calls ön 1 October

were concerned with whether any reply had been received from

Washington. Under these circimstances in hibasight it is

unreasonable to believe OSkalD would have gone to the Soviet

Embassy on thaT date.

18. The camera at about mid-day registered the entry into

i teamin the tin,

the Soviet Embassy of an white-shirted individual who among all

the photographed over long,

appeared to be the only person--a

non-Latin, and possibly an American--who entered the Soviet

installation, thattiaye On the chance that there could be an

association between the fatute identification data derived

from the voice intercept and the descriptive data derived fron

the photograph, the Station

as serenate fros

reported the two elements

in its

cable to Headquarters on:8 Octaber.

13

NW 65990 Docld:32374797 Page 160

---

## Page 161

104-10196-10354

DRAFT

Ї.

The seation's action was not daunt residen de

distrintive and instiatory stackd of the estato identification.

Many examples of a similar kind of thing, can be found in the

day-to-day record of station/leadquarters correspondenceraud-agin/og

Developments from 8 October - 22 Növember 1963. Mexico.

City station reported to Headquarters on 8 October (received in

Headguarters! Octaber) the following initial information on osWALd.

1. On 1 Oct 63,. an American male who spoke

broken Russian and said his name Lee OSWALD (phonetic),

stated he was at Sovemb on 29 Sept when spoke with a

consul whom he believed to be Valeriy Vladimipovich

KOSTIKOV. Subject asked the Soviet guard (Ivanl

OBYEDROV, who answered, if there anything new

regarding a telegram to washington. OBYCKOV upon

checking said nothing had been received yet, but the

request had been

sent.

Mexico Station said it

2./ had photos of a male who appeared to be

an American entering

Soviet Embassy 1216 hours,

leaving 1222 on l Oct.. Apparent age 35, athletic

build, circa 6 feet, receding hairline, baiding top.

Wore khakis and sport shirt.

3.

No local dissemination was being made by

the Station.

* Cablese

has been renderco

fere, and thrughout,

114 nit readable English, Fs mitten,

3R.

NW 65990 Docld:32374797 Page 161

---

## Page 162

104-10196-10354

_З?.

Headquarters responded 0422% time, 23 Novembur 1963,

cancelling its inmariatoly precileng request:

"1. No need send staffer with photos. e have

asked Navy for photes again, but Mexico can see OSWALD's

picture sooner on the press wire.

Have juse re-craphasized to rut its the sensessey

of photos. you are sending and also relaying names.of.

travelers with similar names. Note. radio says OSWALD lived

under alias of O. H. LEE."

33. On the 23rd at 17292 time, Headquarters advised

Mexico City:

"The FBI says that the photos of the man'

entering

the soviet Embassy which Mexico Station sent to Dallas....

vere

not of Lec OSNALD. Presume Mexico Station has

double-checked dates of these photos and is also

checking all pertinent bib

photos for possible shots

of OSWALD. "

City

34.

And at this point, 2048z time, 23 November, Mexico Station

trially

Station

agreed:

"Saw photos

of Lee OSWALD on television night of

22 November

and it obvious photos sent

to Dallas were

not identical with Lee OSWALD held in Dallas.

Dates are

as given on photos.

25

JNTEOTCTANNE TACOS NT NAPE 543 490972617

NW 65990 Docld:32374797 Page 162

7914999

---

## Page 163

104-10196-10354

"Mexico station is reviewing all armilable photos

of persons entering soviet und Cuban Embassies. *

35. Tho hours later (22542 time, 23 November 1963) the Station

had roported the results of its effort to review all available

coverage:

"Complete recheck of photos of all visitors to

Cuban Embassy from August through first half of

November against good press photos shors no evidence

of OSWALD visit. Similar

blank against all soviet

Enbassy photos from 1 Septenber. Note, only visit we

know he made was

to Cuban Embassy 28 September,

Saturday, on which Enbassy closed and we hid not had

coverage

• ".

26

NW 65990 Docld:32374797 Page 163

---

## Page 164

104-10196-10354

36.

With. this conmonir.cion the matter of the

"unidentified individual" reaches the end of Phase i, the key

element of which is the conviction it first lutent, then

expressed, that the photographed individual might be identical

with OSWALD. This appling especially to the Station, though

at a certain point even Mendquarters moved no rebuttal despite

the hard tacta ae

Liti

37. This review has attempted to deal even-handedly with

all items in the case record that have a-bearing on what

happened. The operational zeal, innovativeness and the high

committment of all involved, especially in Mexico City, speaks

for itself. Equally apparent - because of the 20 - 20 advantage

of hindsight - is the cvidence of non-performance. It was

a critical failure, for example, that no photo of OSWALD was

made available - though it was expressly requested both at

Headquarters and by the field - or that it was not more

aggressively sought by CIA, before the twenty-second of November.

1 photograph of OSWALD would have obviated - in a way the mere

possession of a correct physical evidently could not - the whole

• in Mexico 205

successive deterioration of what began as an impressionistic

selection of the photograph on 1 October 1963 into a cause

celebre today.

27

NW 65990" Docla:: 2374797 Page 164

---

## Page 165

104-10196-10354

38.

loade died the this totall Crick Chat

never has there reen a sause celobre with less intrinsic merit.

Equally clear shouid be the demonstration of the facts Cliem-

selves that there was nothing contrira; or conspired in what

happened unless la de have now descended to that point in

human

values achieved under STALIN in the USSk and under HITLER

in Germany, where just à plain mistake is per se evidence of

conspiracy.

39

The Genesis and Development s: (DUL Exhibit No..1

and Commission Exhibit 237.

Special Agent of the FBI, Baritell D. ODUM, On •

23 November 1963 shored one of the six photos flown up from

Mexico City the previous day to OSWALD's mother, Marguerite OSWALD.

ODUM himself had trimmed the off the background by straight

cuts. Mrs. OSWALD had, no recognition of the image in the

photograph Bardwell's own detailed acount may be found in

HEARINGS, op cit, Vol. XX, p. 268

'10.

The photograph shows the unidentified individual

in a black shirt. It was one of the sive photos taken of him

in front of the Soviet Embassy in Mevico City on 1 October 1963,

two days after OSWALD had left the city.

41. It this point for the record the total available

photo coverage of the unidentified individual numbers twelve

photographs:

a. Five taken

on 1 October 1963, entering

and exiting the Soviet Embassy. He is garbed in a

white shirt a light colored. (khatai!

trousers.

*TW 65990-Do.18323747974Page 185-

---

## Page 166

t:.

104-10196-10354

the Soviet Embassy,

He is garbed in a dack, open, button-

down shirt andraskikransers with a high neckling under-

shirt showing and dark trousers.

c. Two talen

on 15 October 1963 in front of the

Cuban Embassy.

He is wearing a dark, collarless t-shirt

or light sweater.

The negatives of all of these are extent and are now held in

Headquarters as integral parts of the OSWALD and related file

holdings.

result of ODUM's display of the photogräph.- to

repcat, a cropped version of one of those noted under paragraph alb,.

above - was Mrs. Narguerite OSWALD's allegation that she had

been shown a picture of her son's killer, Jack RUBY, & day"

before he perpetuated the deed! Again the Warren Commission

Report. (pp. 364. - 365, 367) exhaustively disposes of this

erroncous charge and requires no repetition here. A complicating

fact developed along the way was Mrs. OSWALD's (correct) obser-

vation, when she finally admitted

before the Commission that

the ODUM photograph was not RUBY, was that the photo had been

cropped differently from the one she had been shown in Dallas.

Inspector MALLEY's cropped version of the ODUM photograph

became Commission Exhibit 237 (see HEARINGS, Vol. XVI, p.

638).

43.

The net effect of the developments in the 4

of the Commission was

to require the admission of the cropped

photograph into evidence in a chain of depositions beginning with

29

NW 65990 Docld:3

Page 166

---

## Page 167

104-10196-10354

ODuM, including the FBI Inspector, James R. MALLEY fudio had

trimmes the

photograph used by she Commission in washington)

and Mr. HELMS, who deproed for the originator. These docu-

ments speak for themselves and will be found in the

HEARINGS, VOl. XI, PP. 168- 170.

44. Mexico City

station and other senior Agency officers

strongly advised against the publication of the photograph in

any form on the grounds that the soviets would be imediately

alerted to the exitence of a useful and continuing U.s.

intelligence operation and the operation would go down the

drain. There were repeated cables exchanged

on this point

between Headquarters and Mexico City Station during

the

summer of 1964 in particular from 23 September to 15 October 1964

when the Statior. had plans underway to abandon the operation.

In acceding to the Commission's request for a deposition

Mr. HELMS, then the Deputy Director Fo Plans, replied affirmatively

to MI.. RANKIN by memorandum of 23 June 1964 which including

the following additional observation:

"The Central Intelligence Agency recommends

that this photogräph not be reproduced in the •

Commission's report because it would

jeopardize a most confidential and productive

operation.

In addition, it could be embarrassing

to the individual involved who as far as the

Agency is

aware had no connection with

30

+474594+955

---

## Page 168

104-10196-10354

Lee Harvey OSWALD or the assassination of

President KENNEDY.*

46.

In this instance the needs of the commission prevailed

over the DCI's statutory abligation to protect

sources and

methods.

The "Unidentified Individual" remains to. this day

unidentified and there is no credible evidence up to this

time to rebut the asseition made by Mr. HELM's in the concluding

sentence of his memorandum. to Mr. RANKIN on 23 June 1964 or

And the photo operation did, as predicted, go down the drain.

Within a week of the public appearance of the ODUM Exhibit

No. I and Commission Exhibit 237, members of the Soviet Embassy

began systematic efforts to survey

the surrounding buildings,

ostensibly for rental space, but clearly their inquiries

were directed to spotting possible camera sites. The operation

was continued in any case. Within a year it had become almost

totally unproductive in coverage on Americans in contact with

the Erbassy - a clear sign that this category of visitor was

being warned away the the Soviets themselves.

NW 65990 Docld:32374797 Page 168

---

## Page 169

104-10196-10354

PHASE THRES:

#THE "UNIDENTIFIED MAN" PHOTOGRAPHS, 1964 - 1975

¿i as could be foreseen there has been persistent pressure by

critics of the Warren Cormission Report to exploit abe ODUY Exhibit Nol

and Commission Exhibit No. 237 for partisan interpretive purgoses.

A considerable correspondence has accumulated since the end of

1964 in which the Agency has attempted to be responsive to these

la, attried ta

requests si-ultaneously; to satisfy what has been

Me sole interest

from the inception of the matter: to protect the method of

acquisition of the photograph and the foreign liaison relationship

which made the acquisition possible.

50.

Following are highlights from the correspondence drom

current phase:.

On 16 May 1967 over the siynature of the

General Counsel of the Agency, Lawrence R. Houston, CIA voluntarily

alamar thes plan to fing les

submitted

statement to Judge Bagert of the Criminal District

Court for the Parish of Orleans, State of Louisiana.,

The response

deat affiraativeiy with the contents of the subpoena that had been

delivered to the United States Marshall in the District of columbial

1..

despite the fact that the subpoena could not be executed because of

the lack of

jurisdictiong iT. Houston proferred on Agency behalf

categoric assurances to the court regarding inaccurate

staterents

and inferences made by MI. Garrison in New Orleans about the

-NV-65990-Doeld:32374797 Page 169.

---

## Page 170

104-10196-10354

photograph of the unidentified indirari.

The following is guutea

from Mir. Houston's memorandum:

"Because of the publicisy which has surrounded

the Orleans Parish Grand jury proceedings, we have

recently carried out an extaustive search of the

files of the Central Intelligence Agency for any

picture of Lee Harvey Oswála takea in Mexico. As

a result of this search,. I can state categorically

that the files of this Agency do not contain, and

never have contained, any such picture of

Lee Harvey Orwald taken in Vexico and that we have

no information whatsoever that any such photograph

ever existed. To the best of our tnowledge and

-information, therefore, there is no such photograph.

Furthermore, the photograph which is printed in the

Warren Commission Report, Sthibit No. 237 in

Volume XVI, never contained more than one figure,

and the figure in the photograph depicts an indi-

vidual who, to our knowledge, has not been identified.

The

circunstháces of the filing of thie photograph

with the Warren Commission are set forth in affidavits

pages 468 and 469 of Voluna NI, Hearings Before the

President's Commission on the Assassination of

President Kennedy. Consequently, de have no record

of any photograph that answers in any way the descrip-

tion of the one we understand was requested in the

subpoena.

"I hope you will accept this information in this

form

in the spirit of cooperation

in

which it is

proferred."

I. The Agency has repeatedly serviced requests about the identity

of the unknown

individuald

Mr. Enor 1. Brown, JI., Rte: #4, Box 82

Sgangun: Road, Farmingdale, New Jersey, the last exchange of correspondence

in our record covered the period 4 - 17 April 1970.

"NUT 65990" DocId:32374797 Page 170-176

---

## Page 171

104-10196-10354

D. 1

FANT

2o.

On 10 octuber 1903 at arian time the ll Dirasion! •

compencine responsible tor actino cigistropore Misserinated do

the Department of state, the fai, and the Navy Deportment by

routine electrical transmission, the report. received. fron vexico-

adding is conce

station. tayathor.withypreliminary@ollateral details drawn from

a file review:

On 1 October I9e3 a rellable and sensitive

source in Mextiço reported chat an American male, who

identified himself as lee eshAw, contacted the Soviet

Embassy in Mexico City inquiring whether the Embassy

had received any news concerning à telegram. which had

been sent to Washington. The American was described

as approximately 35 years cid, with an athletic build,

about: 51x fcet tall, with a "receding" hairline.

2. It is believed that OSWALD may be identical

to Lee Henry (sic) OSlAiD, born on 18 October 1939 in

New Orlcans, Louisiana, 3 Former U.S. Marine who

defected to the Soviet Union in October 1959 and later

made arrangements through the United States Embassy in

Moscow to return to the trited States with his Russian-

born

wife, Marina Nikolaevna PUSAKOVA (sic) and their

child:

3. The information in paragraph one is being

disseminated to your representatives in Mexico City.

15

NW 65990 Docid:32374797 Page 179-.

---

## Page 172

104-10196-10354

PEARE

Any further information received en

this subjeet

will be furnished you. This information is being.

made available to the Immigration and Naturalization

Service.

23. Although the reaction of the leadquarters desk was

"by the hook" and in good time, there

were a number of errors in

this advisory. to the departments which on the record, wore concerned

with the OSWALD caso.:

osWALD's middle name was mis felled.

"Henry". for

Harvey•

b. His wife's mulden name was misspelled:

"PUSAKOVA"

PRI

fOr TRUSANOVA.

Neither of these errors dee significant,. More important was:

Paragraph 2. of the Mexico City Station's report

which had dealt with a cuncurrent, but separate, phenomenon,

/the description of an individual observed going into and out of

the Soviet Embassy, had been locked on to lee OSWALD as an alleged

descriptive fact.

There can be no question that this misreading

of the Mexico City Station report was an

analyst's error

which escaped detection

in the coordination before release:

the descriptive details attributed to OSWALD were so far off

the mark as to be irmediately recognizable as such by the

recipients

partial explanation, if not exculpation,

Т, та

NW 65990 "Docid:32374797 Page 172

---

## Page 173

104-10196-10354

ve it reentled that as of that aare did had no photogran

es estio to refer to. 1)

28. Confirmatión of this judamene is provided by the contents

of the cable composed bj the same analyst and sent as of 22093 time

‹eno tours lator) o Mexico City Stass refuinsing its satehen sode s

1. Lee oswald who callai surlib 1 oct

probably identical tee lenry [sicl USwAld born

18 Oct 1939, New Orleans, Louisiana, former radar

operator in United

States Marines who defected

to USSR in Oct 1959. OSWALD is Sive feet ten

inches, one hundred sixty fire rounds, light

brown wavy hair, blue eyes.

2.. On. 31 Oct 1959 he attempted to renounce

his United states cilizenship to the United States

Emb in Moscow, indicating he hiù applied for soviet

citizenship. On 13 Feb the DS inb Moscow reccived

an undated letter from OSWALD postmarked Minsk on

five Feb 1961 in which subj inicated he desired

return of his US PpT

as wishes to return to USA

if "we could come to some agreement concerning

the dropping of any. legal provedings against me."

On 8 July on his own initiatire he appeared at the

Embi

"with his wife to

see about his return to states.

17

WW. 65990-0681d102374797-Ragert79

---

## Page 174

104-10196-10354

si:.

4"+

cor soviet citizenship and that his applaration

at that time had beon to remain in ussk and for

temporary extension of his tourist visa pending

outcome of his request. This application.

according to OSKALD, contained no ref to Soviet

citizenship. OSWALD stated that had. been

employed since 13 Jan 1560 in Belorussian radio

and tv-factory in Minsk where worked as metal

worker in research shop. OSWALD was married on.

30 April 1961 to Marina Nikolaovna PUSAKOVA (sic)

a dental technician born 17 July 1941 USSR. No

Hdgs traces. He attempted arrange for wife to

join him in Moscow so

she could appear

at Emb

passport,

for visa intérview.

His American Wy; wãs

returned

to him.

us Emb Moscow stated twenty months of

realities of life in Soviet Union had clearly had

maturing effect on OSWALD.

3.. Latest lIdas info was an FBI report dated

May 1962 saying FBI had determined OSWALD is still

US citizen and both he and his Soviet wife have

exit permits and Dept State had given approval for

their travel with their infant child to ust

4. ("station should pass,

to the FBI, the Navy, and IoNs locally. The informatin

18

NW 65990

Doelds

374797 Page 174*

---

## Page 175

104-10196-10354

+p194021600e

paran tric and

three prigirates

with the FEI.

5.

Rest

and possible identification being

disseminated to Noga of FBI, State, Navy, aND ISNS.

Pis. Keep

Hdgs advised on any further conticts or

positive identification of OSwALD.

E stegico Cita;

•Vie Headquarters teedbuck os oswalna correct description

should have been sufficient, in vicw of the incongruities with the

details deduced from the photo of the unidentified male, to keep

But thing did not word out thirt. way

thesc

two matters apart as investigative facts.

Mexico City

station on 15 October 1963, A any cbel asked Headquarters to

"please pouch à photo of OSWALD." Headquarters electrically

delivered to the Department of the Navy the following message on 2y dett

1463;

"Ice Henry (sic) OSWALD . • •

"It is requested chal you forward to this offire as

soon as possible two copies of the most recent photo

graph you have of subject.

We will forward them to our

representative in Mexico, who will attempt to determine

if the Lee OSWALD in Mexico City and subject are the

same individual."

No photo had been received by CIA by 22 November 1963.

19

IW 65990 Docld:32374797 Page

---

## Page 176

104-10196-10354

2v.

nichin its limitations and capabilitics, Mexico city

Station had done all it could to comply with Headquarters instructions:

a. licadguarters had been alerted and in turn those

agencies with an investigative or policy interest in OSKALD a am

imericin in cn Critis Statoes

(had been alerted, both in washington and in the field.

.b. .Mexico.City had no further contacts by OSWALD to

report because--as it is wirimately ascertained--he had left

Mexico City on 2 October.

c.

OSWALD was not an Agercy investigative responsibility,

in any case. Even with a photograph, it would have taken very

special efforts triggered by the other interested U.s. agencies

to have

made a positive identification in view of OSWALD's

hotel registration under alias.

There the matter. rested until mid-day 22 Movember 1963.

---

2]. The Insertion of the photo of the Unidentified Individual

with the Chain of feate

Evident on 22 November 1963 the Mexico City

Station cabled Headquarters at 22292 time after learning of lhe

arrest of Lee H. OSWALD, age 24, possibly in connection with the

assassination and referenchts its earlier message off and ls october ids

and Headquarters' reply of 10 October.

The station/ requested by

triguest priorsty pouch photo/osunio so that station can

check all recent coverage for OSWALD.

Forwarding soonest

copies of only visitor to SovEmb

1 Oct who could be iden-

Л

tical with OSWALD."

20

NW 65990 Docld:32374797 Page 176

---

## Page 177

104-10196-10354

18. Fisten that Moxies City Station had forgotten chat

according to iss con conmunication the unidentified male in the

photo was oi "agparent age 35" and that the accurate descrietion

OF OSWALD forwarick by Headquarters on the l0th precluded the

person whom they reyarded as the "only visitor to the Soviet

imbassy on l atcker who could be identical," could indeed be.

27. The Station (nad meanwhile begun an exhaustive and

accelerated review of all its technical and photographic intelli-

gence. A dispatch sas prepared in accordance with the indication

given in the cable of 22' November, cited in paragraph 25 above.

The dispatch noted that photo coverage of the unidentified indivi-

dual had turnes up on 4 and 15 October at the Soviet and Cuban

Embassies, respectively. The text of the 22 November 1963 pouched

dispatch sidet rend:

"1. Attached are copies of the only photographs

obtained

on 1 October 1963, which appeared to be

an American.

This same man visited the Soviet Embassy

on 4 October 1963.

"2. Copies of these photographs were shown to the (sic)

U.S. Ambassador on 22 November 1963 and a copy of each of

the two photoyraphs was given to Chief FBI, Mexico, on that

date..ro'

"P.S. Photographs dated 15 October 1963 were inserted

after typing of dispatch. These were taken as (thel person

21

---

## Page 178

104-10196-10354

PFALT

entered the Cuban Enbassy."

Attached were eight photographs: four (ofwhich two were marked

1 October on reverse) showing the individual in a white shirt änd

four (unmarked on reverse)

showing

the individual in a black shirt.

It would seem to be logical that the word "sets" was probably

omitted from paragraph two of the dispatch between the words' "two"

and "photographs:"

3D. That the Station was working under forced draft is clean

tuched-on a

apparent.from the text of the dispatch, which coobains

material

fact Insbrechas a postscript. That fact was reported simultaneously

by cable to leadquarters. at 00532 time, 23 November:

"1.

Mexico Station has photos

same unidentified

American type

who is possibly OSWALD entering Cuban

Embassy on

15 October. Searching for pessibility

photo-documented entry Cuban Embassy other days.

"2.

Also attempting establish OSkALD entry and

departure Mexico."

to send

23N08963

Headquarters, at 01:36 z time, asked Mexico Station

staff member with all photographs to Headquarters on

the next

available flight.

э0.

Concurrently with or before the foregoing cables to

Headquarters, the Chief of Station, Mexico City

spoke directly

by double-talk telephone with the western lenisphere Chief of

22

NW 65990 Docld:32374797 Page 178

---

## Page 179

104-10196-10354

KING, and secured permiscion to aive cogies of the

photographs is the unidentified individual to the Legal Aetaché

and to make them known to the Mbassador

olearly reflected in a personal note by the Chief of station to the

Will Division Chief, mailed to the latter from Dallas, together, with

copies of the photographs, by the Pai representative who delivered

them to the FBI in that city.

'"2? November 1963

"Dear j.C. (KING):

"Reference is made to our conversation of 22 November

in which I requested permission to give the Legal Attache

copies of photographs of a certain person who is known to

you.

"attached are copies of each of the photoyraphs we have

with the dates

of the visits stamped on the back.

"At € p.m. Mexico time on 22 November, The Ambassador

decided that this was important enough to have a member of

the Legal Attache's,office take copies of these pictures

to Dallas, Texas. The Naval Attache is making a special

flight from Mexico City for this purpose. The legal

Attache's officer who is going to Dallas has promised to

mail this material to you for me.

"Copies

of these photographs are also being

sent by

23

NW 65990 Docid:32374797 Page 179

---

## Page 180

104-10196-10354

DRAFT

pouch which bill leave Mexico city cn the night of

22 November 1963.

"Best wishes.

"Win (SCOTT)".

•According to the sidelined commienty on this letter, the Legal

Attaché's officer was Eldon RUDD.

3 70

The decision to remit the photographs to the fBi in

Dallas had been made by the Ambassador, according to the Chief of

Station, who simultaneously with the FRI. agent's departure reported

to Headquarters by cable (0244% time, 23 November):

"FBI agent left here 2000 local time with two copies each

of six photos of a person suspected to be OSWALD, on a

special flight for Dallas, He is carrying/envelope with

delinen

one copy each photo for airmail special

1 from Dallas to

J. C. KING at home as per telephone conversation with

SCOTT.

One copy of each of these photos plus a copy of

each of the photos showing the same person exiting the

Cuban Embassy

• forwarded by memorandum leaving by regular

pouch tonight. In view of above dues Has still want a

staffer with additional photc (s)?"

24

NW 65990 Docld:32374797 Page 180

---

## Page 181

104-10196-10354

be stipulated in sumary:

trine strictate

There is no increment of credible evidence, anyany this

of Soviet and,or cuban political. intelligence or

security, service involvement to whai was developed

and considered by the Warren Commission and its staff.

The Commission's finding, on the basis of credible-,

evidencek that lee Harvey OSwALD was the killer

of President KENNEDY and Officer TIPPIT and did

them alone and of his own determination fett stands.

"credible evidence that gould upset or

signit cantly modify this judge did (and does)

not exist in washington. But such evidence could

exist in Noscow and/or Havana, whes volúntary inputs

to the warren Commission vere minimal in quanset

at designed to cover up any knowledge andlor

of or connection with OsWALD which might be silste

Cuban (KGB andforDGI) connection will persist

and grows

until there has been a full

disclosure by these governments of all elements of

OSWALD's handling and stay in the Soviet Union and his

contacts in Mexico City. The Warren Commission report

snould have left a wider "window" for this contingency .

rest That, indeed, was the opinion at the working level

particularly in the counterintelligence component in to, C/Am.

In the absence of additional or new slaments a

"credible" evidence, there are "himle"

amarags in the record that emerge as noteworthy,

in the light of the other conclusions. Thege are

reviewed and sunmarized below, item-by-item.

Till are

1. Juvertiaten f the Griatos yesident.

Jab 7: Kened, Hearings Refre to Printers" -

NW 65990 Docld:32374797 Page 181

---

## Page 182

104-10196-10354

d.

CASTRO's warning and threat of 7 September 1963

if ÖSWALD did indeed read it in New Orleans - must be considered

of get significance in tele e no parag on or a lies,

Of OSWALD's passive/aggressive makeup and his identification with

Fidel CASTRO and the Cuban revolution which is directly traceable

as far back as his Marine Corps service in fi toro, California.

CAsTRO's warning and ehree to Ap correspondent HARKER y IF=

respective of whether there was any formal mandatel, or even

security Service contact with OSWALD by, the Cubans of the

Russians - Warn

at gular irresponsibility

and under no circunstances excusable affossile retorsiontor what

the Cuban emigres were doing during the summer of 1963, wushues

one haage

no vas personars

-MW 65990 Docld:32374797 Page 182

---

## Page 183

104-10196-10354

Cuban Contact

with Lee Marvey OSWALD, Santa Ana, California, early

19,59 (2) •

The testimony of Nelson DELGADO contains an assertion of

germinal significance to any review of the background

of

Lee Harvey OSWALD's feeling toward and relations with CASTRO's

Cuba. DELGAD was probably the closest peer group member to

OSWALD during his specialist training period at El Toro Marine Corps

base December 1958 - September 1959. The Warren Commission Report

takes note of this:

"OSWALD told DELGADO that he was in touch

with Cuban diplomatic officals in this country:

which DELGADO at first took to be

'one of his

lies, but later believed.

10.

Actually DELCADO's testimony says a lot more of possible

operational significance than is reflected by the language of

the

report and dore not appear to have been rundown or developed by.

investigation. De record of the beginning of OSWALD's relationship

with the Cubans starts with a question mark.

Il. The period was one of transition in U.S. - Cuban relations

after CASTRO's takeover.. OSWALD, and DELGADO at the outset, were

CASTore OSwALd being particularly keen about hou to

HERE DELGADO testified

• I didn't know what to tell him, so i

told him the best thing that I know was to get in

touch with

a Cuban Embassy, you know. But at

that

that time/I told him this - we were on friendly

terms with cuba, you know, so this wasn't no supper

sion or malnitent, you know. I didn't know

what to answer him. I told him to see them.

Report to the President's Commission on the Assassination

cited as Report.

687

of

President John F.

Kennedy (Washington, 1964), p.

Hereafter

5

NW 65990 Docld:32374797 Page 183

---

## Page 184

104-10196-10354

"Atter a while he told me ha mis

in contact

with them ...

... I seen this enveloje in his icotlocker,

wall-locker, and it was addressed to him, and they

had an official seal on it, and as far as I could

recollect that was mail from los Anjeles, and he

was telling me there was a Cuban Consul. And just

after he started receiving these letters - you see.

he would never go out, but stay neat the post

all the time

he had one visitor after he started

receiving letters he had one visitor. It was a man.

because I got the call from the il guard shack,

and they gave me a cail that OSWALD had a visitor

at the front gate. This man had to be a civilian,

otherwise they would have let him in

so I had

to Find somebody to relieve OSWALD, who was on guard,

to go down there to visit with this fellow, and they

spent about an hour and a half, two hours talking,

•I. guess, and he came back. I don't know who the man

was of what they talked about, but he looked

nonchalant abuut the whole. thing when he came back.

He never mentioned who he was, nothing.

"Mr. Liebeler:

low long did he talk to him, do you

remember?

"Mr. Delgado: About an hour and, half, two hours...

"Mr. Liebeler: You

never

asked OSWALD who

this fellow

was that he talked to?

"Mr. Delgado:

No. No...

"Mr. Liebeler: Did you connect this visit that OSWALD

had at that time with the Cuban Consulate?.

"Mr. Delgado: I did ; because I thought it funny for him

to

be receiving a caller at such

a late date - time. Also, uo to

this time he hardly ever received mail; in fact he seldom

received mail from home because I made it a policy, I used to pick up

the mail for our unit and distribute it to the guys in there, and

very seldom

did I ever see one for him. But every so often.. often fer

6

NW 65990 Docld:32374797 Page 184

---

## Page 185

104-10196-10354

he started to get in contait nich these cuban gecole, he storted

vetting letter panchiots and nesspapers...

ind he also started receiving letters, you know,

and no birstee, maybe panchlets, soü sey, little like church.

things we get from church, you know, but it wasn't a church.

"Mr. Liebeler: Nere they written in spanish, any of them, do

jou know?

• "Mr. Delgado: Not that I can recall; no.

"Mr. Liöbeler: Did you hare any reason to believe that these

things come to OSvaLD from the Cubar Consulate?

"Mr. Delgado: Nelly I took it for granted that they did after i

seen the envelope know. Something like a Mexican eagle, with a big.

impressitiseal, you know. They had different colors on it, red

and whiter almost looked like our colors, you know. But i can't

recall the seal. I just knew it was in latin; United something

like that. I couldn't understand. It was Latin.

"Mr. Licbeler: you don't know for sure whether it was from

the Cuban Consulaté?

"Mr. Delgado: No. But he had told me prior, just before I

found that envelope in his will locker, that he was receiving mail

from them, and one

time he offered. to show it to me, but i wasn't

much interested because at the time we had work to do, and I never

did ask to see that paper again, you inow.

"Mr. Liebeler: Did he tell jou what his correspondence with the

Cuban Consulate was about?

"Mr. Delgado: No, he didn't.

"Mr. Liebeler: Did he ever indicate to you that it had to

do with the conversations that you had about going over to Cuba?

"Mr. Delgado: No. The only thing he told me was that right

after he had this conversation hith the cuban people was that he was

gang to ..once he got out of the

service he was gang to Swizterland.

astigation of the Assassina

¡omos president

Herrings Rofore the Presides:

commissi

Assasstation

President Kennedy wizenington,

Volume VIII, pp. 241-243.

erasiter citer

hearings,

65990Docldx92074797aRage:185e

---

## Page 186

104-10196-10354

MY OSWALD's application to Albert Subroitect College,

Churwalden, Switzerland, was dated 19 March 1959, and he was

presumably to report there on 20 April 1960. Destined for

discharge from the Marines on 7 December 1959, OSWALD accelerated

his exit on alleged grounds of family hardship in early

September 1959.

on 27 September 1959 he was issued a U.s.

passport valid for travel - among other places to cuba and the

ussr. he entered the soviet Union frost unland on is october 1959.

I DELGADO's testimony has the cast of credibility. Granting

that, it is of basic importance to focus attention on the male visitor

who contact OSwAld at el roro camp and talked with him for between

one and a half to two houre. The event was unique in DELGADO'S

recollections factually there ie nothing like it - on the record -

In everything else we know about oswald's activity in the

United States or after. The record reflects no identification of

the contact: DELGADO'" presumption is that the was from the

U.S./Cuban diplomatic. and consular relations were severed. on

3. January

1961.

WW 65990D6did:32374797

---

## Page 187

104-10196-10354

Prodiction

of President KENNEDY's Demise by Connunist Party Coll

Leader Morse BENITEd canola,

1962

1, Guatomala Station forwarded to Headquarters on 9 Tanuary 1964

a duplicate copy of a raw report by a penetration dated 5 January

1962 describing

events at the yearly communist Party cell meeting.

The coll loader, Morse BENITEZ. Zabola, said that the Communist

Party. In Guatemale should form a sitigle now partys

"We need not

preoccupy ourselves over, the politics of Presidence KENNÉDY because

we know, according to prognostications, that he will die within the

present years, 1962."

"f. inia report apparentay had been discounted i

when it hoode received and was not forwarded until the sation

re-reviewed all of its material after the assassination...

The file

reflects no followup or formal dissemination of the report:

NW 65990 Docld:32374797 Page 187

---

## Page 188

104-10196-10354

Enigmatic Threats by Cuban Third Secretary in The Hague,

I November 1963.

15. A sensitive liaison source, reporting after the KENNEDY

assassination, indicated that at the Sovlut reception on

7 November 1963, the Cuban Third Secretnty, Ricardo L. SANTOS Pesa:

discussed the recent refuge raids on Cuba and their implications

with a host-country diplomat, concluding with the admonition!

"... just wait and

you will see what we can do.

It will happen

soon."

Asked to be more specific what would happen soon, SANTOS

replied:

"Just. wait, just wait."

iL. fhese data were passed to the warren Commission by

memorandume 31 March 1964. SANTOS was got

quanti reported to

have a history of mental instability and was summarily recalled

from The Hague reportedly for reasons related to that fact in

April 1966.4

10

---

## Page 189

104-10196-10354

Intercepted Conversation of Cuban Embassy Employco, Luisa CALDERON.

Afternoon 0t.23

November 1963

.1%

At 1730 Mexico City time, about five hours after the

KENEDY assassination, infides a Cuban Embassy employee named

"Luisa" received a telephone call in Spanish from an unidentifted

male outside:

Pf? the caller asked her if she had heard the latest news.

Luisa jokingly replied; "Yes, of course, I knew it almost before

Kennedy. Imagine, one, two, three and now, that makes

three

(she laughs), what barbarianse..

a Both speakers agreed on the seriousness of the assagaination.

•"Luisa" also stäted that the party at Silvia DURAN'g had been called

off so it would not appear that they were celebrating thé death

of KENNeDy, nor would they have the party coincide with the burial.

Finally she said she planned to move that night into the house of

a doctor (a woman) friend.

"bo Late hyperbole? Boastful ex post facto suggestion of fore

knowledge? This is the only item in the intercept coveragé taus f. US

cubans and Soviets after the assassination that entomolthe sugge

indian a fore hurle go expertition

In the tenuous, enigmatic character of thee.

conversation

is sharply highlighted by the following facts:

# "Luisa" was probably identical with

Juisa CALDERON, a cadre worker of the Cuban

Directorate General of Intelligence (DGI).

She returned to Cuba in 1964 and was reported

to be working in DGI headquarters.

§ The DGI element in Mexico City in the

fall of 1963 was headed by Alfredo MIRABEL Diaz

who had arrived on 2 September 1963, formally

as the replacement of the Consul Edsebio AZCUE

(departed 19 November 1963). The deputy DGI

chief (and as of June 1964, MIRABEL's successor)

was Manuel Engenio VEGA Perez.

canvercations vag-the receptrontst, a Mexican

1

dongesil

---

## Page 190

104-10196-10354

The "silvia CURaN" named inQuisa's

conversation was the receptionist, a veticas aational,

who tilt asid

→ Ree Harrer ostades durine his inco

isits- on 27 and 29 september, to the cuban installa-

tions in connection with a cuban visa application for

Silvia DURAy is the sole

тё !

live witnessuregarding

activity in

Mexico City. Her testimony, however, in its entirety

was

taken and presented

, solely by the vexican Govern-

mental authorities. A direct confrontatica

ith hei

was requested by the warren Commission but réjected by

the Mexican authorities. It is from silvia riv's.

statements that it was learned that Lib betame engaged.

persónal'"

in

a / altercation on 27 September with soBia AZCUE •

di Manuel Eugenio VEGA Perez, alias Marcis, and.

his DGI assistant,

Rogelis RoDRIGUE? lopes were

positively identified in February 1964 by two inde-

pendent sources as engaged in the active development

and facilitation of the training öf vicaraguan agents

for the purpose of assassinating General Anastásio

SOMOZA:

VEGA,

it is established, was on post in:

Mexico City during OSWALD's stay there 27 September -

2 October 1963. He left Mexico City on 3 November 1963

for Havana: It was reliably reported about (SGA that all

individuals going to Cuba, legally or illegally, food +

pass through him first. He

took the biayraphical data

and sent it to Cuba for name checking, a procedure

which normally took 15 days.

There is no evidence in the OSWALD case file that Silvia DoRAN

was subjected to a systematic elicitative interrogation that would have

related her dealings with OSWALD , known and confired by intercept

with the data held Mercile, on the Cuban DIy its personalities

ard methods y in Mexico City. Was it nortal for a case like.

OSWALD's y considering the fuss he allegedly zade with AZCUE , for

the applications to handled solely by a local eagloyee and a lame duck

Ribe

AZCUE whose slot had been taken aursas by the. Doi chief?

Whatever the armer so loquestiong, theng were

For canal, VEGA would lost handled it, hitils of the win asing,

544444944

NW 65990 Docld:32374797 Page 190

---

## Page 191

104-10196-10354

and basilint e the ting to lutes seen

2. Nr 1963.

There 5 ang

Hares and returnas an 13 Fabian, 1968,

NW 65990 Docld:32374797 Page 191

---

## Page 192

104-10196-10354

no mated at the now, apart Fitsi

cited Know zage and participatio!

ansqua ah' intelligence and security

service could have more in its files than at hosurfaced in the

DORAN statements Coming back to the beginning: Luisa" -

Luisa CALDERON - as a member

of the oGI unit in Nexico City - could

very well hare known something that would make what she said to her

unidentified caller less a matter of boastful self-indulgence than was

assumed at that time.

in liters

It is clam thats

W 65990*Docld:02374797-Rage-192

---

## Page 193

104-10196-10354

spot.

Silvia DURAV, Substantial Amplifigation of Admission of

Mileged Personal kelations with Blo

1957.

The defects viewed in hindsight of the Silvia DURAN testimony

already have jeen

suggested above. (In that context of criticism

it would also be relevant to reconsider the implications of the

two intercepted telephone conversations on 26 November 1963

between the Cuban President, DORTICOS, and his Ambassador to

Mexico, Joaquin Hepandez Armas, because the thrust of the conver-

sation dealt with the

in aim tired question whether silvian DURIN had been asked

about. money payments by her Mexican interrogators.

251. As of september 1964 Silvia DURAN gave up her Cuban Embassy

job.

In the spring of 1967 Silvia DURAN was reported by a reliable

and sensitive, source to have cut all relations with Cubans. Her

1967)

account, of how she had been taken into custody and had

been

interrogated after the

assassination repeated what was already known.

She added, under circumstances that did not permit the source to

challenge or elicit corroborative detail, that she had gone out

with LHO during his

stay in Mexico City and claimed she had

sexuay

relations with him.

NW 65990 Docld:32374797 Page 193

---

## Page 194

104-10196-10354

Allegaron ot conspiratorial Contad sotren 096310 ini cobad

Gorornment drents

particular

infurende to Allecacions ef

(a) Elena dasso de Fraz and (o) Oscar CONTRERAS

25:

As the Marron cormission reported, "Literally dorens' of

allegations of a

conspiratorial contact botween Oswald and agents of

the Cuban Government dave been

investigated

"S" song these cases.

which consumed hundreus of ciA man-hours in Headquarters and abroad -

and similarly the FBI in'the Unitéd States - monts the

Nicaraguan nalkin in Nesico City x 26 Norember 1963

Gilberto ALVARADO Ugartos dilan

verataine

Lachidrand +5) Roy Dest

2d. The ALvaRado case is taken up in detail by the warren Commission

under the cyrptograph D. "* ALVARADO elaimed that he had seen an

American, whom he identified as OSWALD, receive money sömetime in

mid-September 1963 in

in eco dot the cuban consulate in

Mexcio City. ALVADARO's story was ultimately broken by; the use

of the polygraph on which ALVARADO slowed deception and bringing

ALVARADO 's, Nicaraguan security service cantaet into the case.

El the ALVARADO story is a particularly acute representation of the

difficülties that beset the evaluation of observed evidence: cortain

elements of the story persist despite the impeachment of its major

premises. 'In this-oasé, ALVARADO, whose account diù not become public!

until the pudffcation. of the warren Report in October 1961, talked

consistently of the presence in the Cuban Consulate transactiond of

a Negro with red-dyed hair.

Elena GARAO de Paz is. a mecurial, articular and socially

prominent Mexican writer, marriad, but separated fron a high-ranking

Mexican foreign

service official. She is, also, the cousin of

Horacio DURAi, the husband of Silvia DURAN, cited above.. There is

• a strong personal antipathy between the two women descending from

Elena GARRO's trenchant anti-Communism.

Bt.

See Report, P.

305 ff.

Some I te atter wise; the cosa

Fa Jerio ROJAS Villeneuve ni lozumal and Euskabetol"

See Report, pp. 307 - 308

GALLANT

Santa Usa Prise sam, Caligni, and sto allegatou

of Ray DoBkins.

5

SEA DE

NW 65990 Docld:32374797 Page 194

---

## Page 195

104-10196-10354

24.

From Octobee 19o% until his retirement in the fall or lo?.

a U.S. Embassy officer, Charles THOMas, persiatently kept up a

stream of reports and nomoranda reflecting CARROg account of what

had actually gone ön hetween OSwALD, the Cubans and in particular

Silvia DURAN in September 1963, including a repeated reference to

a Negro with Lid leglad drais.

The first reference to the GARRO story was noted in Mexico

Station. Memorandum of Record dated 12 October: 1964:

"Elena CARRo. (said that she and her daugher

were invited to a party at the Cuban Embassy during

the period she now finds out that OSWALD was here

In Mexico prior to the assassination. She was

Invited by a Mexican secretary in the Cuban Embassy

whose husband is a cousin öf the GARRO family

[Horacio DURIN!." At the party she saw three

Gringos, not drinking, not mixing and more or less

just standing around together like three bumps on a

1og. They were so obviously out of place, she asked

someone in the Cuban Embassy about them and was toid

that they were just passing through. "She claims

that on the way these three Gringos stood out she

took a good look at them

as did her daughter. When the

assassination occurred and OSWALD's picture was spread

into the newspapers, both Elena and her daughter

immediataly said that he was one of the three Gringos

without a doubt' at the party."

31 GARRO repeated her story to. Mr. Charles William THOMAS, an

Embassy political officer on 10 December 1965: In September 1963

after her test return

from abroad, she went to a party, accompanied

by her daughter, at the home of Ruben DURAN (emphasis added, Ruben is

one of the two brothers of Horacio DURANI, who married her cousin. She

met OSWALD and two other young Americans. At the party she was

discouraged from talking with him. Other, guests were the

Cuban Consul ACUE, General Clark FLORIS, Silvia DURAN, who she later

learned was OSWALD's mistress while he was here, Emilio CARBALLIDO, and

a Latin American Negro man with red hair (emphasis added). In

November 1963 when the identity of the assassin became known, she and

6

MW 85990-Doeld:2374797spage 19

---

## Page 196

104-10196-10354

her daughter went to the Cuban Babassy

and shouted "assassins" and.

other insults at the staff there! shortly afterward, she and her

daughter were visited by a friend, Manuel CARVILLO. lOR CALVELLOI.

then

an official in the secrotariat of the Gobernacion tacticsins

dead

batte me by semin

its and were told he had orders to

escort them to a small and obscure hotel in the center of town.

They were kept there for eight days under pretext that they were

in danger.

When she told CARVILLO she wanted to go to the

American Embassy and explain what she know of oswalD, she was told that

the American Embassy was full Of Communist spies.

37. On 25 Decenber 1965 and 9 January 1966 in further interviews

with THOMAS, CARRO and her daughter elaborated and in certain

particulars significantly modified her earlier account. She also.

acknowledged that she and her daughter had been interviewed by

Embassy oificers to whom she claimed they did not give a very.

completed story because the Embassy officers dia

not appear to give

much credence to anything she said:

33. It lie developed that GARRO and daughter. had been interviewed

by the Legal Attached on 17 and 24 November

1964.

Her information had

been similar to what she claimed in her account to THOMAS, but had

not been

substantiated by inquiries. The FBI representative

therefore considered the matter

closed and reaffirmed his dis-

engagement

from the matter to the CIA Chief-of Station on 27 December

1965 and to the Ambassador on 25 February 1965.

34: The Embassy Political Officer, however, persisted in his

interviews and reporting. '"A memorandum of conversation,

13 July 1966, in which GARRO identified the

place to which she had

been taken by CALVILLO as the Hotel Vermont.

(This detail checked

out affirmatively. GARRO was at the lotel 23 - 24, 25 - 27 and

28 - 30 November 1963. "Another, on ? February 1967, in-witch GARRO's

sasset continuing vicissitudes with the Cubans are set out. And

finally, upon THOMAS' retirement from U.S. Government service, the

Department of State, at his request, 28 August 1969, disseminated

to CIA and FBI a compilation of his reporting of the Elena GARRO

irrinemies interviewf.::

There the matter rests. GARRO's chronology of the events

she described as having occurred in the Mexican capital in

%. The particula, were not a fisa la, in dependent absenatos, at

NW 65990 Docld:32374797

Page 19

---

## Page 197

104-10196-10354

moer

Is ander coincided wich the ntirred santis males.

presence

there.

Her story horrier tid twe prints conghine with allis

gations by others regarding OSWALD: (a) ALVARADO's alleyations

regarding the Negro with the red-dyed hair this detail could,

however, have been gleaned from the warren Commission fallount

account

of the "d" casel and

(b) Sylvia DURAN's ousa later claim of intimate

personal contacts with OSWALD.

3o; Beginning in March and amplified In May 1967, the

American Consul, Benjamin j. RUYLE, In Tampico developed a contact

with a locál Mexican journalist, Oscar CONTRERAS Lartigüe, who claimed

to have encountered OSWALD with other pro-CASTRo students at the

University of Mexico campus in September 1963

1s7. In June 1969. CONTRERAS was Intervlewed by a CIA officers

He studied law at the unviersity of Mexico for

three years, approximately 1960 - 1964.

He belonged

to a clandestine pro-cAStRo

Revolutionary group at

the University. Regarding

the OSWALD case he was

extremely cautious and although he

was not able or

willing to give dates and names, he said OSWALD

visited the University of Mexico campus shortly

after the Cuban Embassy

refused him a visa to

visit Cuba.

OSWALD made inquiries regarding

pro-Cuban replutionary groups at the University

and was directed to CONTRERAS and his friend.

OSWALD met CONTRERAS and four other persons as

they came out of a round-table discussuion held

in the faculty of Philosophy. OSWALD told the.

group it was urgent that he visit Cuba and the

Cuban Embassy denied him a visa. He requested

aid from CONTRERAS' group. CONTRERAS and others

mistrusted OSWALD because they felt he was a CIA

provocation. The group allowed OSWALD to

accompany them the rest of that day, that night

and part of the next day. OSWALD was very

introverted and appeared to be slightly crazy.

OSWALD made no mention of an assassination plot

but kept bringing

up the pastes point he had to

travel to Cuba immediately.

8

NW 65990 Docld:32374797

---

## Page 198

104-10196-10354

at this point, wies fur knowledge, the natter was tured

over to the Mexican authoritice who determined that CONTREKAS WAS

indeed at the University of Moxico but only for the years 1959 -

1960 and that he hid been publienlly assaust Lin protest activity

for the Student Revolutionary Bloc (BER) in January 1961. However.

the group ceased functioning as such in the middle of 1962 and

Oscar CONTRERAS. was

never one of its leaders.

No further work

is reflected in the files on the CONTRERAS allegations. Apart. from

the unsustained claims made by CONTRERAS about his own presence at

the University, there is an additional elements that undermines

the credibility of his account: OSWALD's Spanish, which was

barely'adequate to get him meals near in hotel, At seems hardly

likely to have permitted him to carry on for an extended period

with a University student group

NW 65990

Docld:32

14797-Page

---

