# DOCID-32360577

## Page 1

JEK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER

: 104-10116-10223

RECORD

SERIES

: JFK

AGENCY FILE

NUMBER

: 80T01357A

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM

: INCA

TO

:

TITLE

DATE

PAGES

: 2

: THE INFORMATION COUNCIL OF THE AMERICAS, INC. (INCA) .

01/01/1900

SUBJECTS

: WITHHELD

BUTLER, EDWARD

CASTRO, JUANITA

OCUMENT TYPE : PAPER

CLASSIFICATION : SECRET

RESTRICTIONS : 1A 1B 2

CURRENT STATUS • RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

COMMENTS: JEK42 : F13 : 1997.07.26.18:40:55:560102

Heleased under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act ol

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

65924 Date: 10-26-2021

[R]

- ITEM

IS

RESTRICTED

104-10116-10223

NW 65924 Docld:32360577 Page 1

---

## Page 2

THE

INFORMATION COUNCIL OF THE AMERICAS, INC. (INCA)

1. INCA is an anti-Communist propaganda organization

with headquarters in Now Orleans, that dissominates English

and doreen language propaganda tapes and lilns on a world-

wide basis, conducts public toruns of an extremist

political nature, etc.

The organizational impetus and funds

apparently come

from wealthy New Orleans figures including

DI. Alton OCHSNER, of the OCHSNER CLINIC, and Willard l.

ROBERISON. In recent years tuids have been supplied by

SCHICK SAFETY RAZOR COMPANY. An INCA letterhead listing all

the officers and officials has been requested tron JWAVE,

which has had some casual correspondence with the organiza-,

tion concerning Miss Juanita CASTRO.

2.: There is no indication of any Agency relationship

with INCA prior to January 1965 when

INCA sponsored Miss

CASTRO's appearance in New Orleans.

At that time an Agency

asset vio. functioned as Miss CASTRO's business manager was

involved with INCA officials in planning the New Orleans

visit where Miss CASTRO was given an award at a dinner

sponsored Ny INCA.

The dinner, which was attended by civic

Icaders and representatives of

all news media, took place

shortly after Miss CASTRO's defection and there was

considerable interest in her appearance.

INCA was particularly.

interested since it had distributed hundreds of English

and Spanish language tapes containing her statements when

she was surfaced in Mexico.

In October 1966 INCA again

requested that Miss CASTRO appear as a guest speaker in

ma joi

American cities in connection with the release of

the INCA motion picture production "HITLEK IN HAVANA"

Fullowing various reviews of the film,

IMWAVE decided

the

film would probably become controversial and it would be

inadvisable to permit Miss CASTRO to accept the invitation.

Because of INCA's extremist political orientation, JMWAVE

has wanted to avoid any more involvement between Miss CASTRO

and INCA and the Station asset,

in his capacity as business

has mnaged to prevent this. There has been only

une casual contact between our asset

and Edward BUrli,

Executive Vice-President of INCA, since Miss CASTRO's 1905

New Orleans trip. This took place recently when BUTLER was

in ile area promoting the "HITLER IN HAVANA" {1lm.

3.

According to JMWAVE, INCA officials have never

indicated in any

way that they are aware of Agency control

and direction of Miss CASTRO or her business agent, and there

is no indication that INCA officials have had any official

contact with Agency officers.

---

## Page 3

-750

SEUR

•sU S. BUTLER (Paragraph 7 (A) of reference memorandum)

• Se

In January 1965 Subject's organization (INCA) , sponsorea

the New Urleans appearance of Juanita CASTRO shortly aiter

her arrival in the US.

INCA had a particular interest in

Miss CASTRO since they distributed hundreds of tapes contain-T

Ing

Miss CASTRO's declarations when she was surfaced in

Mexico.

A JNWAVE asset, who is Miss CASTRO's business manager,

handled the planning and

arrangements for the New Orleans

lisit with INCA ufficials.

The only subsequent contact

veroen the JMWAVE asset and Edward BUTLER occurred when

BUtLEh was recently in Miami promoting the INCA film on

"CASTRO-HITLER in HAVANA"

See Attachment 2 for a sunmary

of the, INCA organization.

SECURI

65924

Joc

---

