# DOCID-32331341

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/10/201

• AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER:

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-90096-10287

HQ

92-2989-247

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO:

TITLE :

FBI

NY

HQ

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note]. Case#:NW

S6000 Date: 11-03-2021

DATE: 05/16/1969

PAGES:

12

SUBJECTS :

CHARLES TOURINE

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/20/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: RPT

v9.1

NW 66000 Docld:32331341 Page 1

19

---

## Page 2

NY 92-851

He told her that recently he had been in the hospital for

additional X-rays and for some traction treatment.

LORENZ

told subject that she intended to visit Paradise Islandaand .

asked him for his contact there.

Subject supplied the name

EDDY SULINI who is connected with the Casino.

When she

goes there she should inform SOLINd that he

sent her.

For the information of those offices having

operating at various times in the Miami, Newark and NYO

area. He is described as follows:

Aliases

DOB

POB

Race

Height

Weight

Halr

Complexion

Social Security

Number

Residence

Charles White, Charles Pelmonico

3/26/06

Matawan, NJ

White

5'6"

170-185 1bs.

Dark with Heavy Greying

Swarthy

157-22-2762

40 Central Park South,

NYC

Subject now is on crutches and appears to be in

ill health.

As indicated in this report subject is believed

to now be investing in the stock market. A stock broker

JACK LIPSWIIS is a neighbor and friend of subject at his

residence.

LIPSWITS reportedly worked for Hartzmark and

Company in NYC, but as indicated in this report was not

known at their

offices in NYC.

INFORMANTS:

Identity of Source

NY T-1

ANN McMANUS

Former PCI

Contacted By

SA CHARLES G. VONNELLY

SA PAUL L. WURKIN

SA JOHN W. Gilled JI:

-C-

(COVEK PAGE)

NW 66000 Docld:32331341 Page 2

---

