# DOCID-32106382

## Page 1

L

Date: 05/15/96

Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY

RECORD

NUMBER

RECORD SERIES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

CIA

104-10004-10256

JFK

201-289248

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR

FROM

TO

CIA

:

TITLE : INFORMATION ON LEE HARVEY OSWALD AT 0700 ON 24 NOVEMBER

1963.

DATE

PACES

11/24/63

SUBJECTS :

UNIDEN MAN

OSWALD-MEXICO

KOSTIKOV, V

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : SECRET

RESTRICTIONS : 1B

CURRENT STATUS

RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 06/15/93

OPENING CRITERIA

COMMENTS : OSWIO: V10B 1993.06.15.16:08:42:430000:

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

65924 Date: 10:21-2021

— -

[R]

- ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NW 65924 Docld:32106382 Page 1

---

## Page 2

24 NOV 1963

SUMARY of Relevant Information on Lee Harvey OSWALD at 0700 on

24 November 1953.

1. Our first incoration oo OSWAD come fzon a technical

operation in Mexico City and vas cabled in on 9 October 1963. It

revealed that on 1 October 1963 Led OSHALD had been in touch there

with Soviet Consul Valery HOSTIlOy about a telegran watch the

Soviet Enbassy was supposed to send on him to the Soviet Embasey in

Washington.

The dats shoved thet OSWALD had also been at the Soviet

-Embassy on 28 September. Traces shored OSWALD vas a former U. S:

defector to the USSR and on 10 Detober CIA Headquarters notified the

PBI, State and the Navy (OSHALD had been a Marine): Our Mexico Station

vas told to pang its information on OSWALD to the Mexico City officed

of the FBI, the Irmigration and Naturalization Service and the Inbassy.

Since our Agency 1s not supposed to investigate U,S. citizens abroad

vithout special request, ve did nothing hurther on the case.

201 11

After the ascassination of President, Kennedy on 22 November,

Mexico Station, inich imediately recalled ite carlier report on OSWALD

and cabled us about it, began researching all its files and records for

reports thich night rolate to him. It turned up pictures of a min

believed to be OSWALD entering the Soviet and Cuban Embassies on

various days in October, including 1 October; but when some of these

pictures vere sent to the FBI in Dallap they proved to be someone other

NW 65924 Docld:32106382 Page 2-

200 21) at Docurgent: Number

forFSIA Review of MAY 1976

---

## Page 3

than OVALD. Mexico Statioo has, to date, roud no pictures of

OSHALD entering the Soviet or Cuban Dabasey. i

3. The search did reveal nore late fron technteal operations,

hovever: Into infomation, unica conn in 1n ercat masseo, bad nor

been previouly assoctated with oSlAla beceug the bene 1o not

actually mentioned in it, but the subfect matter shows it is about

him, and our expert monitor says the voice la ideatical with the

voice of 1 Oetober inow to be OswAlD'e.

4. Tits further technical informetion covers a ramd-robin of

telephone calle ana vloits mich OStALD made to the Soviet and Cuban

-Ephanstes in Mesico Clty between 27 Septerber and 3 October 1963.

This has been supplemanted by reports on his travel in and out of Mexico

obteined by the U.S. Consulate in the bonder town of Nuevo laredo fron

Mexican Immigration Service records:

5: To brief, elt this information shous that tee Harvey OSWAID

entered Mexico (esparently by car) at mieve teredo on a6 seytember

1963, clasming be vas a photographer, living in Her Orleans and bound

for Mexico City. On 27 September he vas in Mexico City phonins the

Sortet Imbassy to ask for a vica so be could go to odessa, ves. on

28 September, he vas et the Cuban Ebasay, soa Silvia DURAI, & Nexican

Imployce of the Cuoan Inbassy, telophoned the Soviet Inbasey about his

problen. It seens that OSWALD (wose home in not nentioned) wanted a

Cubon transit voi so he could go to Cuba and wait there for e Soriet

NW: 65924 Döcld:32106382

Page 3.:

---

## Page 4

-3"

vide which would permit him and his vile to go on to the Soviet

Unton Silvie DURAN asked assurance that the Russians would grant

him the visa. A thile later a Soviet offielal colle Silvia DURAN

beck and explains that the vice applicant had been dealing with

the Soviet Consulate in laahtngton about the sane natter and that

they could not be sure that he vould ever get the Soviet vloe.

The Soviet officiel aided that the applicant had a letter showing

he belonged to an organtastion in favor of Cuba.

Silvia DURAN and

the soviet official agree to table the matter.

6. On 28 September 1963, OSAID agein veits the Cuban imbassy

and talks to Silvie DURAN about the same matter, and she phones the

soviet Imbassy, OSWALD also talke to a Soviet offletal on her phone

and says he will come to the Soviet Embassy and sive bim that lo

apparently a forwerding address where he can be reachea. There 16

some hint this address may be in Cube

7 On 1 October, OSWALD has his phone conversation with Soviet

Consul, KOSTIKOV about his vise, and on the sane day, OSWALD phones

the Soviet Military Attache about the same natter.. The Military Atteche

gives him the number of the Consul.

Finally, on 3 October, OSWAID

phoned the Military Attache agein and tried to talk about a viea, but

the Military Attache again referred him to the Consul and give hin

the right phone number:

8. That same day, 3 October 1963, OSWALD drove back Into the

Untted States at the Nuevo Laredo-Laredo, Texas crossing point.

He

NW 65924: Docld:32106382 Page 4

---

## Page 5

had travelled"on a Mexican Tourist Cord In lieu of passport

9. On 23 November 1963, Mexican authorities, who get the same

technical information which ve do and no had noticed the name of

Lee OSWALD In it, arrested Silvie DURAN and her husband and Interrogated

them. She confirmed the information given above, saying that Lee

OswArD had professed to be a Communtet and an admirer of Castro.

She

and her husband are being held incommunicado and their arrest vill

not be made known, for the time being:

10. Observation of the Soviet and Cuban Babassles in Mexico

and of their principel intelligence officers, including kostikov,

since the assassination of President Kennedy, by both technical and

physical survelllance, shovs nothing musual.

13. Mexican President Lopez Mateos is aware of this case and

of the technical inforuation involved.

He will doubtles support any

further police action which is necessary.

NW 65924 Docld:32106382

Page 5

---

