# DOCID-32404995

## Page 1

104-10163-10110

Heleased under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

65997 Date: 10:28-2021

опрюми, томм мо. 10

f5ra-100

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

SEORET

Chief, Western Hemisphere Division

DATE: 7 August 1964

ATIN: Mr. Walter Richardson,

Security Officer

FROM : Director of Security

SUBJECT:

Bernard L. BARKER - 201333

1. Reference is made to your memorandum of

5 August 1964, concerning loss of U. S. Citizenship

of the subject.

2. It is the opinion of this Staff that at this late

date subject has no recourse to overturn the Depart-

ment of State's ruling that he lost his U. S. Citizen-

ship by his accepting employment in the Cuban Govern-

ment. To protect the U. S. Citizenship of an individual

who engages in activities which would normally expatriate

himself requires prior agreement between this Agency and the

Department of State. This was not done in subject's case.

Then, too, subject, by his application for and acceptance of

an immigration visa to enter the U. S. as a permanent resi-

dent alien, is in effect, an admission by him of loss of his

previous U. S. Citizenshi;.

3. As a permanent resident alien he must await the

expiration of five years residence before he can petition

for naturalization unless a private bill were introduced to

waive the residence requirement.

to It is believed that a review of subject's file at the

Department of State would not reveal any information

which would change subject's status.

FOR THE DIRECTOR OF SECURITY:

SECRET

W. M. Knott

Chiel, Allen Affairs Stall

8400P T

downgradint and

1/ BR

RETURN TO CIA

• Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

NW 65987 Docld:32404995 Page 1

---

## Page 2

104-10163-10110

TO

,...

SENDER PILL CHECK CLASSIFIC.

•ON TOP AND BOTTOM

UNCHASSIFIED

CONFIDENTIAL

SECHET

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP

NAME AND ADDRESS

DATE

INITIALS

WH/sa/mes Daring)

ACTION

APPROVAL

COMMENT

CONCURREMCE

DIRECT REPLY

DISPATCH

FILE

IMFORMATION

PREPARE REPLY

RECOMMENDATION

RETURN

SIGMATURE

U POLO HERE TO RETURN TO BENDER

W.4 Secrety

CONFIDENTIAL

2007

8ll1

SECRET

1401

" и, а. поляритьыт погатлоь сороса, 1091 о

NW 65987 Docld:32404995 Page 2

---

