# DOCID-32138548

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10058-10065

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE_ NUMBER: 62-109060-4555

feleased under the John F. Nennedy Assassinatior

Yecords Collection Act of 1992 144 USC 2107 Note

LanetAN 60994 Date: 11-01-2021

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

JONES, M. A.

TO:

WICK

TITLE:

DATE: 02/24/1967

PAGES: 2

SUBJECT: JG, INVEST, ROBERTSON, WILLARD, FINANCIAL BACKING

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

05/12/1998

Redact

UPDATE DATE:

06/01/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

:

NW 65994 Docld:32138548 Page 1

---

## Page 2

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

-910-146

FLAT 1902 CATION

GSA GEN.

REG. NO. 27

"UNITED STATES GOT. NMENT

Memorandum

Tolson

DeLouch

Callahan -

Contad

TO

Mr. Wick

DATE:

2-24-6gpf1

FROM

SUBJECT:

RODICER.

9803

im:

0E

Assassination of

M. A. appes

warp

Tavel

Trotter.

Tele. Room

President John

Holmes -

Gandy

WILLARD ROBERTSON

F.

NEW ORLEANS, LOUISIANA! AGGITTERY

KENNETION 6/28/378542

INFORMATION CONCERNING MPT : 91

GDS CATEGORY

DATE OF DEO

ASSIMCATION INDEFINITE d. SA

Pursuant to Mr. Deboach's request, the following is set.

forth from Bufiles regarding captioned individual, millionaire-Volkswagen

distributor reportedly finangially backing District Attorney, James,

Garrison in New Orleans.

=By communication dated 10-18-63, the New Orleans Office

related that an informant, one Frank Hegeman, a public relations man

with a notorious reputation for passing bad checks and associating with

various gambling figures, was contacted on 9-16-63. During this:!

interyiew, he stated that Willard Robertson, a prominent and wealthy

New Orleans businessman, was currently supporting John McKeithen,

a Louisiana gubernatorial candidate in the state Democratic primary.

Robertson reportedly had been extremely active in local New Orleans

politics and had raised large sums of money for previous, political

campaigns, particularly that of Mayor Victor Schiro. Hegeman?

attributed the se

Government.

political activities to Robertson's desire for a good

~ Hegeman further stated that Robertson had recently learned

that'McKeithen was being actively backed by Carlos Marcello, "a Jefferson

Farish racketeer, who was attempting to raise campaign funds. by

promising contributors influence in various state appointments. It was

currently felt in political circles that if Robertson were to withdraw his

support,

McKeithen would stand little chance of election. Among those

reportedly interested in removing Robertson as the backer of McKeithen

was United states senator Russel! Long,

who supposedly was upset over

Marcello's support of McKeithen rather than that of candidate speedy Long,

avored by senator Long. Speedy Long was regardedlas the Democratic

administration candidate and was considered the choice of the national

Hegeman-advised that if McKeithen were elected Governor

of the State of Louisiana, it was! commonly felt in political circles that the

state would become wide open insofar as gambling and other racketeering

ankuences we re con

AN

-Louisiana

L in 1964

rned.

John McKeithen was elected Governor of

1 - Mr. Wick

REC-35

ntial

1 - Mr. De Loach

18

MAR

i Y67 Rosentl

1 - Mr. Tolson

1

-

TDH:jo

Mr. Suitivan

(CONTINUED)

NW 65994 Docld:32138548 Page 2

---

