# DOCID-32282074

## Page 1

Date: 10/05/93

Page :1

-the

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : SSCIA

RECORD NUMBER : 157-10002-10234

RECORDS SERIES :

MEMORANDUM

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

Heleased under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act oi

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note]. Case#:NW

56000 Date: 11-03-2021

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : FBI

FROM :

TO :

TITLE :

PLAN OF CUBAN EXILES TO ASSASSINATE SELECTED CUBAN LEADERS

DATE : 06/04/65

PAGES : 3

SUBJECTS :

CUBA

ASSASSINATION

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: S

RESTRICTIONS : REFERRED

CURRENT STATUS : P

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/30/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

Box 333

Folder 2

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NW 66000 Docld:32282074 Page 1

---

## Page 2

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND OR

OF THISD

BELS SPORT

M19183

SECRET

• Belmont

- Mr. Mohr

1

- Mr. DeLoach

REVIEWED BY FBI/JFK TASK FORCE

1

- Mr. Sullivan

ON 119/94 dad

1

- Mr. Wannall

NATIONALEASE CURILY INFORMATICM

June 1, 1965

Subject to Criminal Sanctions

1 - Mr. Cotter

1 - Mr. Nasca

1

- Mr. O 'Brien

PLANS TO ASSASSIMIE CUBAN LEADERS

77

12-18-93

ied by 2503 RDD/KSR

HER

(JEK)

On June 2, 1965, Victor Domindador Espinosa

Hernandez, a Cuban refugee, was interviewed at thie New York

City Offico of the Fedoral Burcau of Investigation.

Espinosa alvised as follows:

SHOWR

On May 29, 1905, he returned to Her York City after

spending trenty-six days in Paris, France, where he was in

contact with individuals involved in a plot to assassinatc

PIcel. Castio

and other Cuban Governaent leaders.

the nain

figure in this plot is rolando Cuncla, a close friend of

Espinosa and an intinate friond and current neighbor of

Fidel Castro: Cubela is identiock vich Lorner Major Lolando

I.. Cubela y Secades, who has resigned fron the armed forces

of Cuba and is now practicing bedicine in llavana.

Embertot

Blanco.wancemployceron.the cubanglorcieninister Jand Meios

mannerds nosoe are the other leading figures in this

plot.

He conferred in Paris for about ten day's with

to mango uno was then on an inspection toursor cuban (SJM)

Debassies and Consulates abroad:Jile Learned thai the plot l

su.)

is dirceted toward the assassination of Firel Casiro, his

brother faul Castro, Ernesto "Che" Guevara, a Cavinet menver

in the present Cuban Covernuent, and Ramiro Valdes, the Chief

of the Cuban Intelligence Service. The assassination or these

995l

XO&ax

individuals is to taie place in public, possibly on July 20,

1965, when all the Cuban Icadcis would be together at the

annual July 2úth celcuration in Havana. Aftor the assassination,

those involred in the plot hope to seise the radio station

Tolson

and call for Anerican help. Cubela and otler's associated

Beimont a

sloht

hith him in this plot desiro to know whether or not the

DeLouch -

Casper

_United States would help if the plot was sucessful and if

Calluhan -

Conrad -

105-131629

f'cle.

Sale

- 2-1821 (Espinosa)

SECRET

- 105-77067 (Cubela)

Group I

SEE NOTE REGEIVED

- 105-82793 (Aincida)Licludad from automatio

Troller.

Trie. Rum —FOB: js;

downgrading and

riolmes -

Jun-ty -

C(16 )MALHOON TELETYPEUNT DOCClasSIfiCatiOn

RYCLUSURE

105-13162201

NW 66000 Docid:32282074 Page 2

Mar

10

---

## Page 3

SECRET

PLANS TO ASSASSINZE CULAN LEADERS

the United States would be ready to give this assistance at

a moment's notice as the plotter; nay be able to hold the

Government for only a day or tro.

He was in Spain for about trenty hours during his

recent trip and in that country he contacted other Cuban

who is in

do antee tis plot to a certain deed the Cuntries

and allege he has beer couremised

by a cuban gart nichmaned "Tota, " mo was sent fros lavana

-o Spain for the specific purpose of getting in contact with

He requested to be put in contact with a representative

of the Contral Iniclligence Agency who was thoroughly fauiliar

with the Cuban situation and knowledgeable concerning the

individuals invoived in the piot

NOTE:

Above information contained in New York teletype

dated 6/2/65, captioned, "Victor Domindador Espinosa Hernandez,

Neutrality Matters; Internal Security = Cuba."

Bureau files indicate Espinosa in 1963 was involved

in a plan to bomb Cuba.

Our investigation of this plat, which

was not a Central Intelligence Agency operation, resulted in

seizure of over a ton of dynamite and other material to be

used in making bobs.

Bureau files indicate Cubela has been previously

contacted in Europe by Central Intelligence Agency possibly

with a view towards taking some action against Cuban leaders.

Almeda Bosque may be identical with person serving ($4)

as!

t Deputy Minister of the cuban Revolutionary. Armed forces

Original of this memorandum being sent to Attorney

General (copy to Deputy Attorney General) by cover letter.

Xerox copy being furnished to white louse and Rilector, Centanl

SECRET

MAY .: 9'8

NOTE CONTINUE LAGE THREE

NW 66000 Docld:32282074 Page 3

---

## Page 4

SECRET

PLANS TO ASSASSINATE CUBAN LEADERS

CONTINUANCE OF NOTE:

Intelligence Agency also by cover letter. In viaw of the

sensitive nature of this information, it is felt dissemination

should be restricted to these addressees.

Classified "Secret" as memorandum indicates

Central Intelligence Agency operational abroad.

Information in memorandum orally furnished to

CAECe @ Central Intelligence Agency 6/3/65, by Liaison

Agent Papich.

later advised i partial

Intelligence Agency, would contact our New York Office

Central

Intelligence Agency plans telephonically furnished to supervisor

SECRET

- 3 ÷

MAY ¿0 195

DOI

NW 66000 Docld:32282074 Page 4

---

