# DOCID-32332971

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES:

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-90104-10269

HQ

92-2940-111

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: PG

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 04/05/1961

'PAGES:

11

SUBJECTS :

SEBASTIAN JOHN LAROCCA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/31/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: RPT

v9.1

NW 64578 Docld:32332971 Page 1

30

Date:

5/11/201

Released under the John F. Kennedy

assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

54578 Date: 10-28-2021

---

## Page 2

Report Foru

FD-263 (5-12-55.j -

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Reporting Office

PITTSBURGH

TITLE OF CASE

SEBASTIAN JOHN LA ROCCA,

aka.

Office of Origin

PITTSBURGH

Date

4/5/61

Report made by

ROBERT A. VOEGE

CHARACTER OF CASE

ANTI-RACKETEERING

Investigative Period

3/18-3/31/61

61

Typed By:

HKK

рупфоріф

REFERENCES

Report of SA ROBERT A. VOEGE, Pittsburgh, 3/20/61.

Pittsburgh airtels to

Bureau, 3/18-3/31/61.

Los Angeles airtel to Pittsburgh, 3/30/61. (Interoffice)

LEADS

MIAMI - INFORMATION

A copy of this report 1s being forwarded to the Miami Office

for information purposes in view of outstanding leads being handled

at Surfside, Florida, and 1ts immediate vicinity.

PHILADELPHIA- INFORMATION

A copy of this report 1s being forwarded to the Philadelphia Office

for information purposes in view of the attendance of the adopted

son of LA ROCCA at Valley Forge Military Academy In Wayne, Pa., and

Approved

Copies made:

Sabureau (92-2940)

I-Miami (92-103)(1n1o)

1-Philadelphia (92-497)(Info)

2-Pittsburgh (92-226)

ent

92-2940

Do not write in spaces below

+ III

Copy to Crime Dir. I dept togets

lopy in 4119

Property of FBl

Taig zapot, ly epod 2o you by tha FBi, and nethas it nor its contents are to bo distributed aurido the agency to waich losed

# U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1956 0 988919

NW 64578 Docld:32332971 Page 2

---

## Page 3

PG 92-226

conducted in the light of the

position of prominence this phase

of our activity has attained.

The following specific coverage

in relation to

the LA ROCCA investigation 1s in current operation:

PG-622-C*- Installed during 2/61 at the North Star Cement Company,

12 McCandless Avenue, Pittsburgh, owned and operated

by SEBASTIAN JOHN LA

ROCCA. This misur is furnishing

a dally picture of the financial operation of this

and other, LA ROCCA interests and is a continuing source

of information concerning associates and acquaintances

Of LA ROCCA.

PG-585-C- this individual 1s the former paramour of SEBASTIAN

JOHN LA ROCCA.

She is well acquainted with most

of Pittsburgh's racket element and was formerly

employed as a waitress in the Red Eagle Club, operated

by MIKE GENOVESE, Pittsburgh and national top hoodlum

who attended the

conference at Apalachin, New York.

This informant still visits this establishment and

comes in constant contact with local racketeers in

her role as a medium-priced prostitute.

She is

presently traveling with Mrs. JULIA MINTZ, widow

of the co-owner of EZZARD CHARLES, former World's

-trave one

heavyweight boxing champion.

PG-581-C-

this Individual has been associated with prostitutes

in the Pittsburgh area for many years and is a continual

attendee at racket functions in the Pittsburgh area.

She is presently being utilized not only for top

hoodlum Information but as a check on the activities

of PG- 585-C.

PG-573-C- this individual was born and raised with members of

the MIKE GENOVESE family and has worked for the family

as a bartender in the Pittsburgh area. He is extremely

friendly with the youngest GENOVESE brother and is

presently being utilized for the coverage of the

Red Eagle Club, in which LA ROCCA definitely has an

interest, and its visitors.

GEORGE "MOON" MESSER is a Potential Criminal Informant who is

very active in Pittsburgh numbers operations and who

-C-

COVER PAGE

10100-1891

NW 64578 Docld:32332971 Page 3

---

## Page 4

PG 92-226

is acquainted with all of Pittsburgh's top hoodlums

through association with them when they began their

racket careers.

He started MIKE GENOVESE in the

rackets upon the advice and approval of SEBASTIAN

JOHN LA ROCCA and he now furnishes continuing in-

formation concerning those areas relating to numbers

in which Pittsburgh's top hoodlums are active.

HENRY J. BARBER 1s a Potential Criminal Informant who 1s part-owner

of a notorious gambling establishment at Chester, wa.

known as "Club 30." He is being utilized for information

concerning the club and the interest in it of Pittsburgh

hoodlums associated with both LA ROCCA and GENOVESE.

In an effort to increase criminal informant coverage those Potential

Criminal Informants presently under development are being contacted

on a continuing and regular basis so that information obtained

from them may be used daily in connection with survey operations

and surveillances of pertinent individuals in the Top Hoodlum Program.

Informants already established are being made aware of the interest

of the FBI in the criminal intelligence field and they have been

instructed to furnish information of possible interest to Bureau

Agents for proper dissemination to other Federal agencies.-

INFORMANT COVERAGE RELATING TO THIS REPORT

PG T-1 Is PG 622-6* who was contacted on a dally basis from

3/18/61- through 3/31/61 by SA ROBERT A. VOEGE.

PG I-2 1s PG-585-C who was contacted by SA ROBERT A. VOEGE on 3/22/61.

-Da

COVER PAGE

dolen-d0sid

NW 64578 Docld:32332971 Page 4

---

