# DOCID-32347062

## Page 1

Date: 12/07/04

JEK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION

FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER :

104-10065-10061

RECORD SERIES

JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

80T01357A

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM :

HAWKINS, MARTIN C., C/LA/MGSB

TITLE

DATE

PAGES

EXAMINATION BY MR. G. ROBERT BLAKEY OF SANITIZED

PORTIONS OF HISTORY OF MEXICO CITY STATION

08/24/1978

2

SUBJECTS : MEXICO CITY

CIA RESPONSE

HSCA REQUEST

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER

CLASSIFICATION : SECRET

1B

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/13/93

COMMENTS :

JEK11: F9: 1993.07.13.15:13:05:150280

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

65924 Date: 10-21-2021

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10065-10061

NW 65924 Docld:32347062 Page 1

---

## Page 2

SECRET

24 August 1978

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Examination by Mr. G. Robert Blakey of Sanitized

Portions of History of Mexico City Station

1.

At 1745 hours on 23 August 1978, Mr. Scott Breckinridge,

Mr. Norbert Shepanek and the undersigned met with Mr. G. Robert

Blakey, Chiet Counsel of the House Select Committee on

Assassinations (HSCA).

The meeting took place in Mr. Breckinridge's

office. The purpose of the meeting, inter alia, was to make

available to Mr. Blakey certain sanitized portions of CS HP 329

(SECRET), a three volume history of the Mexico City Station

covering

the period 1947 - 1969.

sanitization were previously designated by Mr. Gary Cornwell as

being of interest to the HSCA.

Mr. Edwin Lopez, of the HSCA

staff, was also present, but did not have access

to the Mexico

City Station material.

2.

Mr. Blakey was turnished the following sanitized portions

of the Station history which he read in my presence:

Volume I, Chapter II (C) - Station Expansion and

Joint Operations (1959-1969), consisting of pages 34 through 57.

b.

Volume II, Chapter III (A-3) - The Cuban Embassy,

consisting of pages 221 through 256.

c.

Volume II, Chapter III (A-4) - Operational Support and

Technical Collection Activities, consisting of pages 257 through 298.

Volume II, Chapter III (B) - Covert Action Operations

(portion relating to student operations only), consisting of pages

327 through 336.

Volume II, Chapter IV - Joint Operations and Projects

Using Mexican Government Officials (portions relating to Project

LIENVOY and LITEMPO only), consisting of pages 409 through 423.

Volume III, Chapter X - Merida Base (1962 - 1965),

consisting of pages

485

through 494.

SEGRET

NW 65924 Docld:32347062 Page 2

05698

---

## Page 3

SEGRET

3.

I assured Mr. Blakey that I would be happy to discuss

with him any of the deleted items and explain the nature of

the content and the reason for its deletion.

I told Mr. Blakey

that since he was personally reviewing the material, and the

same would hold true for Mr. Cornwell, I felt that I

could be

very candid in describing the deleted

portions.

Mr. Blakey

thanked me, but did not at any time raise any questions about

deletions.

After he had finished his reiyew I repeated my

offer to discuss any portion of the material. He again thanked

me and said he had no questions.

4.

Mr. Blakey did not indicate (nor did I ask) whether

he would continue to seek access to the entire three volume

history in its unsanitized form.

The tart...

C/LA/MGSB

NW 65924 Docld:32347062 Page 3

SECRET

---

