# DOCID-32373837

## Page 1

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER

RECORD SERIES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

CTA

104-10309-10035

JFK

OFF. OF SEC WORK FILES

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

AGENCY ORIGINATOR

FROM

TO

TITLE

GAMBINO. DIRECTOR OF SECURITY

:THE REVIEW STAFF VIA DD/A

MEMO: SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE REQUEST (PAMPHLET

ENTITLED "CIA: THE REAL FACE"

DATE

02/10/1976

PAGES

.:1

SUBJECTS: MALAVIYA, H.G.

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER

CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED

RESTRICTIONS 1A

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 06/16/99

COMMENTS JFK-WF04 F2: 1999.06.16:10:52:05:216120

Heleased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination

Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note]

SanctiMLy 65990 Date: 11-01-2021

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10309-10035

NW 65990 Docld:32373837 Page 1

---

## Page 2

REFERENCE COPY

RETURN TO OS REGISTI

ONLY

1. 0 FEB 1976

MEMORANDUM FOR: The Review Staff

VIA

SUBJECT

Deputy Director for Adninistration

Senato Select Committee Request

(Pampalet Entitled "CIA:

The Real Face*')

1.

Referenco is made to a 4 February 1976 request from

the Senate Select Committee (Review Staff 76-0134) which asks

for the Agency's comments concerning a pauphlet entitled "CIA:

The Real Face," written by lI. G. Malaviya.

Cited pamphlet was

published in Nev Delhi and apparently had been distributed

at

the Indian Party Congress,

A thorough search of the Office of Security's indices,

using the title of the pamphlet and in the nase of the author,

Mr. Malaviya, disclosed no record.

In addition, a search

eurough the Agency Library ladex, including a checK NiCh

Nr. Edward F Sayle, Curator, Historical Intelligence Collection,

failed to discloso any reference to the pamphlet.

or Robert H. Gambino

Director of Security

Distribution:

Orig 4 2 - Addressee

2 - DIA

1

D/Security

- OS Registry

- DD/PSI

1 - SAG

OS/PSI/SAG/JSHUNT: jan (9FEB76)

ADMANSI

NW 65990 Docld:32373837 Page 2

USE ONLY

OS 6 0553-A

---

