# DOCID-32565076

## Page 1

10-i19 101, 6ri-521

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

PHILADELPHIA

TITLE OF CASE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

PHILADELPHIA

RUSSELL A. BUFALINO, aka

DATE

1/21/64

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

9/3/63 - 1/17/64

REPORT MADE BY

FREDERICK T. HOULIHAN

CHARACTER OF CASE

TYPED BY

MMR

Reference

Report of SA FREDERICK T. HOULIHAN dated 11/7/63

at Philadelphia,

enclosures

TO BURLAV (2) :

original and one copy of a LiM dated and captioned

as above.

ILM /COPIES MADI

ASTRI

Leads

FOR KEVIEV AT FBIHQ BY

NEWARK

AT ELIZABETH, N.J.

HSCA RE4-98 REQUEST.

(SEE BUFILE #62-117290);

1. Will interview E, DRiscoLa, 158 DeHeart Street,

regarding

association with and knowiedge of the subject.

the

Time

During

the subject was registered at Hotel Forrest, New York

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

92

2839

200

Rureau (92-2839) (8707

TeA, MDPA

Newark (92-520)

New

York (92-731)

Philadelphia (92-441)

JA

2x 1904

REC- 56

Dissemination Record of Attached Report

Notations

NW 65994

Docld:32565076 Page 1

---

## Page 2

PH 92-441

:

AT HAZLETON, PA.

Will identify and consider interview of ANDREW PANKO,

22 Laurel Hill.

An automobile registered

in his name was observed

at the home of the subject on 8/21/63.

AT MT. POCONO, PA.

1. Will obtain identifying data concerning LOU DACHIS.

He is currently associating with the subject and formerly resided

with the widow of lou cohen at Me. pocone.

2. Will attempt to identify the real estate reportedly

owned by DACHIS. Subject is reported to be working on a plan

, whereby he will acquire 50 percent interest in this real estate.

AT PHILADELPHIA, PA.

1. Will at the Warwick Hotel verify the registration of

the subject there on 12/19/63.

At that time he registered at this

hotel with JANE COLLINS, his girl friend.

2. Will check the telephone toll calls charged to ABE

HOFF BERG, Towne House Apartments, Philadelphia.

advised that the subject uses the telephone credit card of HOFFBERG

and

a particular note should be made to any toll calls which were

charged to HOFFBERG's credit card and were made outside of

Philadelphia particularly from the Wilkes-Barre • Scranton area.

3.. Will maintain contact with PH 614-C-TE concerning

activities of the subject.

AT PITESTON. PA.

Will maintain contact with the following:

PH 521-C

PH 526-C

Chief of Police JOSEPH DELANEY

E

COVER PAGE

NW 65994 Docld:32565076 Page 2

---

## Page 3

PH 92-441

AT SCRANTON, PA.

1. Will maintain contact with PH 559-C, PH 665-PC,

PCI LOU ALFERT, PCI WILLIAM FAILLA, and

PCI SAMUEL SALVATORE

BERNARDINI.

2. Will consider interviewing CARL ROCK for information

concerning the subject.

3. Will attempt to identify JACK COULTER. COULTER 18

reportedly a dress manufacturer in Allentown and Scranton and 1s

presently being hurt by

"LEFTY"

and "LITTLE HARRY."

4. Will

through logical sources attempt to identify

both "LEFTY" and "LITTLE HARRY."

Administrative Data

The period of this report predates referenced report

because investigation conducted by auxiliary office was not

received until after the referenced report was submitted.

Information from New Jersey Bell Telephone Company

öbtained on 12/6/63 was furnished by NK 1741-CS.

The information furnished by the New York Telephone

Company on 10/2/63 was received from EDWARD I. BRAUNE, Security

Supervisor, New York Telephone Company, New York City.

Information from the Bell Telephone Company, Wilkes

Barre, Pa., was received from MiSs LEILA PATTON, Supervisor,

Bell Telephone Company.

Infornation from Bell Telephone Company, Scranton,

was obtained from Miss LORRAINE ZAWISLAK, Supervisor.

A letter is being sent to the Washington Fleld Office

to interview JOSEPH VALACHI.

New York originally reported that on

1/15/63 VALACHI identified subject as an individual known personally

to him as a member of the Cosa Nostra, but no additional information

is available to the New York Office concerning this. New York

advised

on 1/9/64 that VALACHI was presently being held in a

Washington, D. C. Jail and being contacted on a daily basis by

Washington Field

otrice.

Results of this reinterview with VALACHI

will be reported

after the contact is made with VALACHI,

COVER PAGE

NW 65994 Docld:32565076 Page 3

---

## Page 4

PH 92-441

The following when contacted on the dates indicated

advised that they could furnish no current pertinent information

concerning the subject:

PH 559-0 on 1/7/64

PCI WILLIAM STRUBECK on 12/17/63 and1/3/64

PH 525-C on 12/17/63

PH 526-C on 12/5, 13, 16, 31/63 and 1/15/64.

PH 521-0 on 12/31/63.

Informants

PH T-1

PH T-2

PH T-3

PH T-4

PH T-5

PH T-6

PH 7-7

PH T-8

PH T-9

PH T-10

PH T-11

PH T-12

PH T-13

PH 665-PC

PH 665-PC

PH 614-C-TE

PH 665-PC

PH 591-0%

PH 526-C

NY 4109-0

PCI LOUIS ALPERT

Chief or Police JOSEPH DELANEY

PIttston PD (by request)

POT GILBERT HOUSTON MURR

CSNY-1

CHARLES LILLY (PLCB)

Wilkes- Barre

PH 521-C

COVER PAGE

NW 65994 Docld:32565076 Page 4

---

## Page 5

PH 92-441

PH T-14

PH 559-C

PH 665-PC was assigned three symbol numbers in an

effort to conceal the identity of this

source.

H*

COVER PAGE

NW 65994 Docld:32565076 Page 5

---

