# DOCID-32406889

## Page 1

104-10167-10254

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note]. Case#:NW

55.997 Date: 10-28-2021

• URELASSIFIED

SUBJECT: Oprionall

FROM.

L

ПО HAL

- "E ONLY

CON."MENTIAL

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEE.

NO.

DATE

SECRET

WH/III

TO: (Office designation, room auber, and

building)

2.

3.

4.

5.

. 6.

7.

NW/112003

C/kH/III

DC/WH

CWH

HAMCELVDCH

13 July 1959

DATE

HONED

• POEMARDED

Orrick's

дек

10.

12.

13.

14.

13.

Poet so 610 "stones

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

« 1 oorto

• UNCLASSIFIED

TT PRINTENS CRNIE: 19100-296798

2/SR

NW 65987 Docld:32406889 Page 1

---

## Page 2

104-10167-10254

SESTET

Office Memorandum •

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO

: DC/SH

DATE: 13 July 1959

03

FROM : ted. Hores,

, kH/III/A:

SUBJECT: Pedro lule DIaz Lanz

The following answers were given me by Reichhardt and are keyed

to the questions you wanted asked of him concerning Subjects

1. Did he ever see DIAZ Lans alone?

YES.

2. Did he see hin as often as he wanted to?

YES.

3. Under what circunstances did he see him?

In the INS offices in Miant, both alone and in the presence

of INS officers.

Lo: Was he ever denied access to him?

5.

NO.

Did he have a chance to debrief hia fully? Could he have

done so?

It was not possible to debrief DIAZ fully for two reasons.

His state of mind while being held in the INS offices 1n

Miand was sot conducive to a proper debriefing; and there

was not enough time to obtain requirements iron readquarters.

DIAZ was given a good preliminary debriefing by the FBI

inmediately after his arrival,

and a thorough debriefing

was possible only under different circunstances and with

detailed requirements.

There was no denial by INS, other

than as the result of the circunstances, of access to DIAz,

who theoretically could have been debriefed.

SECRET

V/BR

NW 65987 Docld:32406889 Page 2

---

