# DOCID-32414110

## Page 1

104-10182-10120

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note]. Case#:NW

65987 Date: 10:29-2021

SECRET

" 23 Sorrester 1959

MEMORANDIM MR THE RECORD

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

1. Sableci phored me on 9 September 1959 to sar that be vas.

on dead to ice opted bad been do evate ea

had been dona coscarnins our use

"waitins the resalts of the investigation 'and that I vould bo 1a

touch with tes when the infornation is complete.

Fe said it was

rather urger: ibst he go to the Dashican Repubile becruso of tho

many rmors ist something is about to start there agalast cuba.

I lold hin t'st I appreciated his sense of urgency but that the

natter 1s no? ane that I can control.

Subject sali that he bas

some busiress ressons for going there but thst they are not .

surficiently gent to warrant his spending his nua finds for a

trip to the ¿sainican republie at this tiro.

de saii that Joe

MEROL: and a umber of others have been discussing she counter-

felting of inited States dollars and Cuban pesos for use in

conrection uld Duban revolutionary activitios.

2. It=: 9xbj00t thut la vien si inis miier, wich vns a

possible serious violation of United States lau, I sould urge him

to visit the Bi office in Atlanta ead lo elve thes the rull

stury on this satter.

is said he sould do

so on the following

On lj septenber Subject phoned me at su hase to say that

he had bees is see

the FBI people in itlanta an: thai shey had

referred hin to tlie Secret jervice office there becgase of the

counterfeltiny aspect.

He said no one seemed particala-ly

interested ir. the gun running aspect of the situation. lie said

that ine secte: service hed asied hin to es to liarl st his own

expense to strain further informstion on the ratter. He asked

my adviço.

i said that I could rot influence hin one vay or the

other on this since I was not in a position to direci his activities,

but I feli so sigat be better off to take no action in regard to

this sitiatior since he vas not in a position to lay out the

additionel zany that would be requirad for another trio to Miami.

I told Subjes: i would be in touch with him is soon as I tad further

1nfor=a:102 sacerring our possible use of hin.

03

i..

n3/ IIi/io

1.8.3

NW 65987 Docld:32414110 Page 1

---

