# DOCID-32349253

## Page 1

JEK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY

* CLA

RECORD NUMBER

* 104-10071-10157

RECORD SERIES

* JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 80T01357A

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

AGENCY ORIGINATOR

* CIA

FROM

: WITHHELD

TO

: C/WE

TITLE

MEETING OF DR. MARTIN LUTHER KING WITH ITALIAN LEFTIST

PERSONALITIES

DATE : 10/20/1964

PAGES ÷ 2

SUBJECTS : KING, M. I. JR.

RONE, ITALY

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER

CLASSIFICATION : SECRET

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/30/93

COMMENTS : JEK15 : F3 : 1993,07.30.18:03:25:900036

Feleased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination

Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

aset NW 55924 Date: 10-25-2021

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10071-10157

NW: 65924 Docld:32349253 Page 1

---

## Page 2

(' " VIA COURIER FOUCH

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION

PROCESSING

PRO

POSSO

ACTION

MARRED FOR INDECING

Chies, VE Atto: Chief, WE/4

NO INCEXIMO REQUIRED

ExFO

ONLY QUALIFICO

HEADQUANTERS DESK

CAN JUDCE INDEXING

PROM

RESTRACT

Chief of Station, Rome

MICROPILM

SU/SJBox

Meeting of Dr. Martin Luther KING with Italian leftist

ACTION REQUIRED - REFANENCES

Persomalittes

ACCOMA

PLISHED:

For Your Information.

FOLLORiDg 15 a

translation of a report on the subject:

"The Mission of Luther KING with the Italian Left", dated

28 September 1964 and attributed to DEPLENARX/7, from Luigi

PINTOR, from information coning into the editorial offices

of L'UNITA. The Station received the report on 1 October 1964 pSul

"Luther KING, poted Protestant negro Pastor and /leader"

of the anti-racist movement in the United States, mot with

various leaders of the Italian Communist Party (PCD and of

the Italian Socialist Party (PSI) on 18-September in Rone.

In particular, KING conferzed with PCI Senators Vello SPANO

and Ugo BARTESACHI, with PSX Deputy Lucio LUZZATO, and with

Senator Paolo VITTORELLI Or the Italian Socialist Partz of

Proletarian Unity KING discussed with the above-named

politicians the program of demonstrations against segregas

tion in the United States, which aze to be organized la

Italy during the months immediately

abead."

2.... The same report was also received from DEDICATOR/4 who

has access to the DEPLENARY establishment and thus it is not

considered as confirning the DIPLENARX/7 information.

(Continued)

Attacbment: b/v

Copy of a report passed to local ODENVY rep.

Distribution:

3-C/WE, w/att.

1- CROSS REFERENCE TO

CLASSIPICATION

NW 65924 Docld:32349253 Page 2

DATE TYPED

OCT 20 1964

DATE DISPATCHED

16 Oct 64

DISPATCH SYMSOL AND NUMBER

OIRT - 05733

HEADQUARTERS FILE NUNAER

100-314

1, 281

9344966

---

## Page 3

DISPATCH BYMBOL AND NUMASA

CONEINUATION OF

DISPATCH

OIRT - 06733

3.

Given the source of the above report, we view it with

some reserve

In this connection, we noted the 19 Saptember

Issue of L'UNITA, which reflected

an article on KING's private

audience with Pope Paul held the preceding day.

According to

L'UNITA, immediately after the audience, in St. Peter's Square,

KING stated that *Pope Paul tas most clear on the fact that both

he, personally, and the Catholic Church support the cause of

civil rights".

The article also states that in a press conter

ence: beld-at Fiunicino Airport after the audience KING said,

"The Pope will shortly make a public statement on racial seg-

zegation". We have no other information at this time.

Attached is a copy of the report which we have passed:

to the local ODENVY representative.

RANDOLPR A. MEDEORD

*1371

99:41

NWV 65924 Docld:32349253 Páge 3

09373

---

