# DOCID-32397247

## Page 1

ir,

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER

RECORD SERIES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

AGENCY ORIGINATOR

FROM

TO

TITLE

DATE

PAGES

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

: CIA

: 104-10431-10055

: JFK

: RUSS HOLMES WORK FILE

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

: CIA

ANGLETON JAMES

DIRECTOR

MF: LEE HARVEY OSWALD- INTERNAL SECURITY RUSSIA-CUBA

10/06/1964

4

SUBJECTS : VIADUCT

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER

CLASSIFICATION : SECRET

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 12/16/98

COMMENTS : JFK-RH18 : F05: 1998.12.16:08:41:52:233128

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act ol

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note]. Case#:NW

65990 Date: 11-01-2021

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10431-10055

NW 65990 Docld:32397247 Page 1

---

## Page 2

SECRET

316-0144664

800 304497709 2176

Finosa

FOR SAGETTO C001 03

998-39312

Document Number

for FOlA Review on

JUL 1976

MEMCRANDUM FOR:

SUBJSCT:

Director

Federal Bureau of Investigation

Lee Harvey OSWALD - Internal socuri

Russia - Cuba

*19 13)

FOR FONG

1.

Relerence is nade to your memorandus of August 14,

1964,

subject: as above, your file number (S) 105-82555,

in wbich you requested that seven enclosed photographs be

to

VIADUCT and certain questions be asked of hin.

VIADUCT was interviewed on 9 September 196% with

the following results and commutie ou suren photo?

Photograph no. T

SeNt Ay FBL

(1) Nikolay SERGEYSY - Source did not recognize the

face and bad never heard the name.

(2). Annette (Anita) SETYAEVA, ZUGOFF, formerly inowa

aS "c::: Annette GOLDSHTEYN (GOLDSTEIN) and

Annette Honkina-(KINKINA): Source recogaized

her immediatoly by face, giving the nama Annette

KHENKINA, formerly Annette GOLDSHTEYN.

He could

not recall her maiden name but when offered the

name ZUGOFF he said this would be correct as it

is an Ossettian name and her father had been

Ossettian and ber nother a Canadian.

Source's

additional information on this woman is provided

113

paragraph & below.

(3)

Joseph ADAMOV:

Source recognized his photograp

immediately and provided the name correctly,

Ideatifying hin as his long-time friend, previously

discussed in the British report referenced in your

nemorandun.

REGORD COPY

CaCUP 1

Excladed from automatis

doingrading and

destassificatian

6. Oct64

201-289248

NW 65990 Docld:32397247 Page 2

---

## Page 3

SECRET

(4)

Annabelle BUCAR:

Source recognized bar photo-

graph imsdiately and gavo her name correcily.

She is the person discussed in the British

report.

(5)

Sergei

NUDEN:

Source recognized his photograga

immediately and zava his same ag

"RUDIX"/and

RUDERMAN OF RUDINAN, the same nau referred to in

the British raport.

Sourco said he is a close

friend of Joe ADANOV's.

He in Jewish and was

originally from New York, but i5 now & Soviet.

cizizen, marzied to a Russian woman and father

of three or four children.

Ho works in the

English language section of Radio Moscow.

bad formerly had a very suall flat of one or

two rooms, with which he was very unbappy, but

Radio Moscow got bin an attractive and larger

flat in a building on Peschanaya Street.

(6)

Lucy (Olga) PRAVDINA: Source recognized ber

photograph at once as the wonan

who bad given

him Inglish lessons in 1944 or 1945 when be vas

brielly employed at Radio Moscow. He believed

ber nane was Irina or sonething like that, and

she had previously speut possibly ten of filteen

years in the United States with ber husband who

had been a TASS nan there. Source could 4ot

rocall her last name (narriod nane) but thought

it began with a "3"

• When Source first not her

she was & progran director for Radio Moscow and

did sone announcing.. He said she spoke excellent

Inglish, was a good worker and well liked by ber

colleagues.

He did not know the names luey and

CIGA PRAVDINA, and was certain neither was her

actual name.

Photographs 2 and 3: Source recognized these as

Annette KHENKINA, of paragraph 3 (2) above.

5.

Photograph no. 4:

Source recognized number 1 as

the porson identified in paragraph 3 (6) above; and recognized

Annette KHENKINA, Sergei RUDIMAN, and Joe ADAMOV. He did

not recognize Nikolai SERGEYEV in tals photograph.

6. Photograph no. 3:

Source recognized all persons

in this photo, as identified in paragraphs 3 (3), (2), (s),

and (5) above.

SECRET

NW 65990 Docld:32397247 Page 3

---

## Page 4

SECRET

7.

Photograph no. 6:

Source cocogaized nuaber (1)

35

IQUNKIN (first nane not recalled), the second husband

Annette COLDSNTEYN KUENKINA,

and sunber (2) as Annette

borsell. le knew that they had

a son and assuned that

the

coild in this photo was that son, but he bad never seen tha

coild.

Source provided the same

intornation on KRENKIN

previously included in Mi-d Report Wunber 21, referred to

in your bemoraddun.

le added to this that the apartzent

building in the background of photograph number (3) 16

the location of the apartneut which KHENIN sas given after

be had written a lottor to STALIN couplaining of quarters

he was first given when he repatriated to the Soviet Talon

1n 1945 0r. 1946.

B.

Photogragh no. 7: Source recognized Annette

EHENKINA, but did not know any of the others in the photo.

when nuabor (4), larina, was pointed out to hiu, he stated

tbat she was the right age to be Annetta's daughter by ber

first husband, COLDSATYN. Source had suen hor as a s9a11

child, possibly about five or six geara oi age, in 1945.

He has never seen her since, kn ew nothing nore about ber,

and could not identify her photograpb.

Source coumented

that he had never net GOLDSSTSYN, Annette's first busband,

but knew that he was much older than she and be speculated

that the older man in this photograph night be Boris

GOLDSHIELN.

Source gave the following additional information

on Boris GOLDSHTSYN:. He was sone kind of onginear technician,

not employad by Radio Moscow.

te dia not approse of Aunetta's

working in the radio field, and disapuroved of the people

she worked with there and the general atuosphere of mori.

Anaette was already separated or divorced frou GOLDSDTEIN

when Source first net ber, sonetine in 1944 os 1045. While

Annette was still married to GOLDSHTLYN, she bad an affair

with Joe ADANOV:

9.

Regarding Lev or LeO SETYAV, Source bad never

heard

the name.

He was not aware that Annette KtAlHA

had carried for the third time, although he knew that she

was divorced from KhuNKIN and that he was interested in

marrying a woman who was an editor in a publishing house.

10.

Source had never beard of lee Harvey OSWALD

prior to his defection, and nad no information regarding

his participation in a

•Padio Moscon interview in late

1959.

He coumented, however, that it was not unusual to

SECRET

NW 65990 Docld:32397247 Page 4

---

## Page 5

SECRET

conduct interviors

of this sort, dad

Joe ADANOY could

have suggested

the

tapiog of an

interview.

It would

not necessarily follow toas such a tope would be used for

actual broadcast,

as such decisions vere not nase by

the

interviewer but

by the program directors.

FOR TES DEPUTY DIRECTOR FOR PLANS:

JAMES ANGLETON

CSCI-316/01446-64

S. M. DOWNEY: SR/CI/KGBmbg

Distiibution:

30 September 1964

Orig & 1 - Addressee

1 - C/CI

1 - CI/OPS/SS - dy copy

11-

CI/R&A - amy copy

1

CI/CI - dmy copy

15.-

C/SR/CI

1-

SR/O/US di - dmy copy

RI/FI (201-280, 248) - dmy copy

2. - SR/CI/KGB (chrono & comebacks)

comeback to SR/CI/Research

after return.

SECRET

• NW 65990 Docld:32397247 Page 5

---

