# DOCID-32273042

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/19/201

AGENCY: HSCA

RECORD NUMBER :

180-10145-10255

RECORD SERIES:

CIA SEGREGATED COLLECTION

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 54-06-01G

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: HSCA

FROM:

CIA

TO:

TITLE:

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 |44 USC 2107 Notel. Case#:NW

BEnd Date: 11-04-2021

DATE: 03/09/1978

PAGES:

24

SUBJECTS:

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

CIA, FILES

MEXICO CITY STATION

ELECTRONIC SURVEILLANCE

CIA, METHODOLOGY

NOTES

Unclassified

1A; 1B

Redact

08/29/1995

Box 29

v9.1

NW 66000 Docld:32273042 Page 1

---

## Page 2

3/9/78

SECRET

SummARy: PrE- ASSASSINAtioN; MEXiCO

I Russian Embassy Franscripti

7 General Oliservation

I. The name of the Embassy appears

at the top of the first pageof

eachotranscript. (Fransarjat

here means one days coverage

onone phone.) This is followed

los the amber of the phon

two digit numbers The

nest live gives the date of

the coverage. The nest line

gees the tape reel number.

In some of the transcripte

this is followed by the

time percod. (hours, covered

by the tran

cript. On most

of the trans

cripts the cite

to where the conversation

is on the reel appearson.

the left hand column opposit

the referenced conversa.

tion. seneralli

then senerally, the time,

and a notation as to

whethev.itisan.incomin

---

## Page 3

SECRET

2

conversation.

2. severally, the transcripts

appear to le paraphrase

of the conversations rather

than literal transcriptions.

This is more true of the

spanish than the English

transcripts. some of th

conversations in spanish,

and most of the English

(Russian ones, appear to

3. Le lites transacript a

ww. spanish. On these trans-

crists there are references

to those places on the tape

where a conversation

appears in Russian. These

conversations appear later,

trasascribed into English

4. In the English transcripts

(conversation had been

Russian and/ou English) the

Relad ten puts bles

cite to the tape pootage mumber.

these conversations are.nat

in the tradessstysts we

---

## Page 4

SECRET

-3-

examined: Ed.andD did a

find those conversatione

cented as pressly tra

y trans-

toturnupany

of thase

conversations. When asked

about this Russ Holmes said

that he know nothin

it the suga steal tailin t

inne roodpasture about i

5. Marginal Comments are.not

infrequent in the English

transcripts. The comments

seem to be of two tipes,

bath of which are setoff

from the text by slash

marks. The first type serm

to cover those instancer

when the translator/trans-

criber is unsure of a word,.

identity.place.In this

---

## Page 5

SECRET

4

he secand type is longer

comments on the conversa.

tion and cover a more

general area. These are usually

prefaced with the word

Comment" Some examples,

a notation abalarm in as

participants voice;-

b comments on the marital

relationship ofa Russian

Embassy official (basedon.

the observation that the

official always speaks in a

condescending tone to

his wife);.

a callen as

identifying a man i

a preous conversation:

I substitutions for literal

transibing the angriment,

f notes of background

conversations;.

8 bility a patrongitage

---

## Page 6

SECRET

5

6 Ed noted that the Spanish

in the transcripts is very.

1 Metranscipts for September.

15 +16, if there areany, are

not ow the microfilm we

examined. When asked about

this Russ Holmes said it

was probably beçause

those days were a baturday

nd sunday and the

intercept was shut down

October s inclusive.

I Information from the trano...

Aseptember 27,1963.

1 A man calls the Soviet

Military attacke looking

for.w.irsa.toOdessa.He

is refered to the Consulate.

Weasks how to get to the

Embassy and isgiven

This conversation

is in the spanish transcripts

and appestare to be a paraphrass.

---

## Page 7

SECRET

This conversation occured

letureen 10:30 and 10:50 A.M.

2. At 10:37 a man callo the

Soviet Consulate and asks

it is necessar

geta visa to djor himto

essor. the

person in the embassi

asks him to call back at

11:30. This is in the Spanish

transcripto..

3. At lisat an allo the the

Conoul. He is told that he

(the Consul) is not in. The.

manoutside arks, "when

tomorrow? "The Consulate

official tells him between

Howson Mondays.and

Fridays. This is in Spanish

4. At approximately 4:05.pm

aylira. Duran calls the

soviet embassy. She tell

the man there that th

Ame

can.citizen.was.o

there at thE PEt ban Embassys

---

## Page 8

SECRET

the one who wanto a visa

because she had sent him

there saying that if he got ar

soviet wisd that he could

thenget a Cubanone and

seeking the visas wants to

know who he spoke to at

the foret lembassy because

he was assured that there

would be no problem. Th

man at the barret embass,

juts.another-man.on the

through the sume this

with

im. The tells her to

leave her name and phone

numberand says he will

callback d his transcret

is in spanish

5. At 4:26 an unidentified Sorriet

Consulate 98o gial callo.

---

## Page 9

SECRET

Sylira Duran Fle doviet

hev if the American has been

there Silvia responds that

he is there now The 50 say

that the American showed

capers from the bosiet

Consulate in Hashinaton, D.C

and that he wants to go to

the I 55R where he plans

tostay fova long time

with his wife who is

Russian. The 50 says that he

has not recieved awanswer

to this man's problem

from Washington and it

traditionally takes four to

five months. The 50. days

that, under the hage permis

issue a visa without getting

panese, hes achington

man has a letter showing that

he is a member ofan organigation

that favors Cuba, but the

Cubans can't give hima visa

without hEliftistgettinga

---

## Page 10

SECRET

9

sorret visa and the sc

loesn't know what to do.

with him now because

they should wait foran

the Culens mill de him

that want a clam

in Cuba while his sorret

vida was being processed and

he knew that would take

the idas or permission

soon. Silvia says it is

clean that they can't give

rim a letter because they

don't know if the visa will

that rosal go sages

---

## Page 11

SECRET

10

when it is appropriate. silvio

ays that that is what she

will putdown ow the forms

The 50 pays that they caint

B. September 231%a Staturday:

Consulate at 11:51 A.M. The says

that there is a North American

there who had been at the

before. She SC

sort embass e minute

precise spanis, Bolos

1 Lolour

cription/ WO.while.waiting

speaks in English to someone

in the background: He said

sait. Do you speak Kustian

dont you talke to

him? I dont know./ mo

takes the phone and says in

broken RSSOREn/ Swas in

---

## Page 12

SEGRET

your Embassy and spoke to

your consul. fust a minute

MI takes the phone and

ackes NO inenglish what

does he want.

no: lin Russian/ Please speaki

Kussian

mI: Vhat else do you want?

no magist notes gon

myadoress.

MI:dknow that.

no: /speaks terrible, hardly

ecognizable Russian/ Idid

not know it then o went to

the Cuban Embassy to ack

them for my addhess, because.

The spanich transcript

indicates that the MO first

spoke Russian, the MI responded

menglish pept then. they

---

## Page 13

SECRET

12

both spoke in english. The

transcript in Oswalds

Mexican file is a carton.

C. October 1, 1963

1. At 10:31 A.m. a man calls the dovret

Mo: Hellow. (sic) Swas at your

place last saturdar

- and

talked to your consul They

said theyo send a telegram to

Mashington and I wanted to.

ask you if there was any

thing new?

mI: d'd like to ask you to call

another phone number.

no: Please Please.

mI: Please write it down; 15-60-56.

andaskforra.consul

no: shank you.

MI: Please

1 Englit transcionel later

There is not a time on the

ranscript.

the minto Constago

gation (W8EE7aH1, Vol I.) places

---

## Page 14

SECRET

13

this call at 10:45 Am. The

Oswald Mexican file has

a Xeroxed copy of the

Englich transcripts:

"Inat *ax (?) (sic) mo/ the same

person who phoned a

day or so ago and spoke

n broken Russian/speaki

to Obyedkor

no: dello, this is Lee Oscalo

telegram to Mashington, so

of. that consul.

OBy: Kostikor He is dark/hair

or skin?/

LEE: Yes. My name is Oswald

OBY: not a minute d'll find

hat shey kay that thyten

hes Have they done anything?

OBY: Yes, thespry that a request

---

## Page 15

SECRET

14

has been sentout, but.

nothing had beenrecieved.

asyet

1s: And what.?lOBY hangsup/"

The one subsequent and two

prior conversations are

designated"

transcibed previously.

0 On October 3 a man calls the

soviet Military Attache and

speaks in. broken Spanish and

then English. The no asks fova,

visa for Russia and is asked

tocall the Consulate at 15-60-551

tranocript)..

Il Info from the transcripts in

swalds Mexico file

A 9/27; 10:37 call-Neros cojay

B. 9/27; 4:26 call -

Ti

C 9/27; 4: 0 EGall -

---

## Page 16

AlSO,

LAS

"ot

TOP.

SECRET

-

1 3

0. 9/27/

" 1:26 call,

canbow copy taped to another

page

l. portions underlined in

red. (noton Xerox)

2. Scott usites: "Dsit possible

to identify?"

3. routed to Hoodpastur

4 and said with felia"

5. filed in torret Contact

and Oswald 8P-date. of.

biling.instructions.or

then notations.not

indicated.

2. 9/27; 405 call; carboncopy

I. parts underlined in red

2. routed to Scott, Hoodpasture

an Shaw.

3 file instructions to boreet

contact file.

4. no dates indicated.

5 "0"

F 9/28; 11:51 call, carbon copy

1: parts underlined in redh

3 routed to Scott, bood-

pasture getta.

---

## Page 17

SECRET

16

+ file moration: to

5 no date.

910/1; 10:31 call; Xerox

1013j

i have engines thes

from Barbaround am

attempting to locate

anjather.canbonor

riginal cops at tamos

OR ORIGINAL

REE PHER ORY PREGARES ARE FOE IS ThE MEXICAN

I nation callico

City, Qowald's Mexican file, and

his.

HQR's 201and WX-7241:

A. ON 10/1/63 Mexi 6344 to HQ

reporto that Dave Phillips

isow TDY in Mashington, 0.C.

B. Mexi 6384, dated 10/3/63, subject

undetermined, is missine

know the cable chronology

C. DIR 72527, dated 10/4/63, sayo:

"Mr. David Phillips, newly

sigued appointed chief

---

## Page 18

SECRET

17

Mexi willarsive › Oct

Tin Miamit for two dayo

consultation WAVE.... Tow

Mexi: Mo Phillips ITA

Mexi 9 Oct...

D. October 1+4, 1963

1. Orwald's Mexican file

containsanenvelope @fou

prints of photos of the mmm

The envelope says:

in the 201

in blue printino

In red script it says." Photos.

ofunidentified.person.om

entering for embarry.

as does post-assassination

cable traffic and Mexi 6453

which.nefers.tocman

unidentified man entering

the Embassy on one October.

3. Russ Holmes recently

nformed me that the correc

lates are 2 and 4 October

SECRET

---

## Page 19

SECRET

-8-

(5-1-A)

E. On 8 October 1963, Mexi 6453, 10

sent to H.Q. It originated with

(Barbara Manell The Authenticatin

Officer (A.O.) was (Barbara Manetl

and the Releasing Officer to (R.O.)

was in Scott the cable report

anald, call berliner

that he had been there on the

ret and the in tragram

the and paragraph. says:

"Have photos male appears

be Americanentering dovent.

1216 hours, leaving c.1

Oct. Appearent age 35,

attletic build, circas feet,

receding hairline, baldin

top. Tore khakisand sport

shirt. "There is norto routing

slipon this cable

F HQ responded to Mexi 4453 with

DIR 74830(7-2) on 10 October 1963.

chis cable originated with

Charlatte Bustos A.O. was

J.C. King and the R. O. was

Thomas Karamessines This

cable provis a summary of

---

## Page 20

SECRET

19

bio info on Oswald inchuding

his DoB, date of defection, descrip-

tion, his return to the 1.5., and

was stilla U.S. citizen and.

that he and his family had

been gien visas to return to

the U.5. Mexico was instructed

to paro Ostvalds DPOB, fact

of defection, and descretion to.

the FBI, Heavy, I+ NS and the

Embassy locally.HQ.said

that it uns passing there

ident data to FBI, State,

3. dhiscable

The routing slip in the

Mexican files indicate that

this cable went to Scott, White,

Goodpasture Manell, "Paul"

ind D'AintEGREtood pasture noted:

---

## Page 21

SECRET

20

"He should ask HQ for photo: No?"

Barbara Manell noted that the

local dissemination requested

was done on 15 October. Scott

requested that a "P" file be:

opened on hee tens Osurald

"and put all data we have

into it. Photos?"

G. On a October 1963 Meri 64608

informed HQ. that Mexi urgently

needed new tape recorders for

daragaff, Floryan Randolph

titand an one uniden

person the cable reported

that the machines used by

these people were constantly

breaking down and that

(c/WH/R); Coordinated in craft

NOTE: ThE

'" (I/ 51G/Egerter " and "SR/CI/

not at cold won set to ite

Departmentw of Ital, and Nary

and the FBI. Tho first para-

graph of the able says: On Get.

---

## Page 22

SECRET

21

1963 a reliable and sensitive

source reported that an Amer-

ican male, who identified

himselfas hee Oswald, contacted

the Loricet Embassup in Mexico

City inquiring whether the

Embassy had recieved amy news

concerning a telegiam which haid

been sent to Mashington. The

ican wao described as

approximately 35 years old, with

an athletic build, about six feet

tall, with a receding hairline.

The cable goes on to say that

it is believed that the man is

identical to hee Keny Oswald

anagives bio info on him

(O.1R 74673, dated 10/10/63)

J. On 10/15/43 Mexi 6534 tias dated

hig. + A.O: Herbert Manell.)

R.0:

'Hin Scott.

ref: DIR 74830.

It said: "Plo pouch photo

Oswald "Dhave not founda

response to this cable in

either the Mexico cable traffic

chrono or Oswaldis Mexican

file Shay caked Russ Salmes

---

## Page 23

SECRET

22

to provide the dispatchetween

the dates of 10/15 and 14/26 Russ

said that this might not get

all the pouched material

because Hed melin ired

sorich" dhis cable does not

hase ani 1S attatche

K. Cable originating with T. WARD,

(WH/3/Mexico) on 23Oct. 1963. It

wassenton the 24th

AO: I.N. ballary: R.O: Jane Roman.

REf: 01R 74673. -

Potio ested that you on

as possible tuo copies of

resitative Mexico, sho

the hee Oswald in Mexico Aty

and subject are the same

individuals."

1. On le Ostober 1963 Min Scott

wrote a memo to the Ambassa

dor's cantas sriwith the sovemb.

---

## Page 24

SECRET

23

sentate that

source; that a man IDing

himself asts Oswald had.

contacted the sovemb on

October; that he had

previoudly contacted athen

onas bept.; that he had

talked to Kostikov-about.e

ros to his on ento s

promice to pass tan

(9-5 FOiA) The memo says, in

gar federated that

Soviet embassy on 28

ecieveda.reply..rom

Mashington. concer

request.

Sashaus not ale

---

## Page 25

SECRET

2 Y

tentatest a regatl

I this memo went to:

The Minister

Casinselor for Political Affairs

Regional Security Offices

copies to:

hegat

Naval attache

I+ NS.

Orald "p"

(50-2-4-1 (swrittEN OVER 1)

Lalion with LegAt

NAvAl AttAchE.

having trouble locati

documents let sit at

them available if and when

he can find the

SEGRET

---

