# DOCID-32413248

## Page 1

104-10180-10144

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

65987 Diate: 10-28-2021

understard that i g le the recipient

our country and which belongs do our govermont. This inforation and Ie'ellinonce,

togethor with to sochous of collectire and taruling li, are clasuitled accoriing

o socurity stamianis sot by our govermont. I ram rund and undorscani dio pro-

visions of the espionio lav concernina tie disclosuro of intomation relating to

the national doconso and i na fanilinr alta the ponaltles provided cor tie viola-

tion thereof.

I ackrouledge that I do not nois, nor will I evor possess any richt, interest,

¿itlo, or clala to a to an or the triorion or nen ligunca or nathods of

ollecting or haniling lt which has core o= vill core to my attention by virtue ol

•y connection with vir government, but i will always rocognize the property right

of our goverment in and to such matters.

3. I do solemnly swear that I will rover diralgo, publish, or reveal oither by word,

conduct, or any ollier means any classifled incelligence or knowlodge except in the

performance of my official duties and in accundance with the livs of nur country,

unless specifically authorized in writing, in each case, bj our governmeri.

1. I undorstani this no change in my relastenahis with our gororrment will relievo

no of me obligaton under this outa ard exis to provision of this dada vill renain

bindine upon me evon notor the tomination of my services with our coverment.

5. I take this obligation freely, withort iry nental raservation or parroso of

uvasion.

I have job to lane end zi this cinder si.

04

Signatura

inosa by role do s: April: 60.

Alabana, cubr

1..--.--.---.-----

Robict 18 Wiecha

21pV

NW 65987 Docld:32413248 Page 1

---

