# DOCID-32347133

## Page 1

Date:

12/09/04

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER

: 104-10065-10132

RECORD SERIES

JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

80T01357A

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM

: DIRECTOR

TO : MEXICO CITY

TITLE

: ARRIVAL OF HSCA STAFF TO MEXICO CITY FOR INTERVIEWS.

DATE

: 05/17/1978

PAGES

:

SUBJECTS

: MEXICO :

TRIP

JEK ASSASSINATION

HSCA INTERVIEW

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER

CLASSIFICATION

: SECRET

RESTRICTIONS : 1A 1B

CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

05/24/04 PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

COMMENTS

: JFK11 : F11 : 20031216-1025904

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

55924 Date: 10:25:2021

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10065-10132

NW 65924 Docld:32347133 Page 1

---

## Page 2

$2/3

SECRET

FRP : ..

STAFF

CONF: C/LA-B

INFO: FILE, VR,

C/PCS, DDO/DO, ICS; ODPDOD, OLC,

DDO-4. C/C1-4, C/IP/DMS, CILSN/ID,

SÁ/DQ/0,

(25/P)

78 0713565

TOT:

PAGE

001

1719067 MAY 78

DIRECTOR 224314

SECRET

STAFF 171905Z DIRECTOR 224314

TO: IMMEDIATE MEXICO CITY.

WAINTEE RYBAT

REFS: A. DIRECTOR 222189

B. MEXICO CITY 45093 0709303

FILE

HSCA

1. FOLLOWING HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF

(HSCA)

SCHEDULED ARRIVE MEXICO CITY ON 30 MAY 1978 AND DEPART O/A/

4 JUNE 1978

GARY CORNWELL, DEPUTY CHIEF COUNSEL

HAROLD LEAP, INVESTIGATOR

DAN HARDWAY, RESEARCHER

EDWIN LOPEZ, RESEARCHER

STATE DEPARTMENT HAS SENT MESSAGE TO EMBASSY REQUESTING EMBASSY

PROVIDE LODGING AND LOCAL TRANSPORT FOR STAFFERS. TO OUR KNEELEDGE

HSCA VISIT NOT COORDINATED WITH FBI.

2=

EMBASSY HAS ALSO BEEN REQUESTED TO COORDINATE VISITSHITH

APPROPRIATE MEXICAN AUTHORITIES INCLUDING LOCATING AND ARRANGING

INTERVIEWS WITH PERSONS LISTED PARA 1, REF A, A THROUGH I.

3.

IN ADDITION TO IDENTITY J (WHO SUBJECT MEXIÇO CITY 44819

AND DIRECTOR 215553) AND IDENTITY KO PARA 1, REF A, AND SUBJECT

PARA 2, REF A, HSCA DESIRES INTERVIEW FORMER OTS STAFFER ROBERT

ZAMBERNARDI WHO RETIRED MEXICO 1965. HSCA DEFERS TO STATION

JUDGMENT WHETHER INTERVIEWS WITH RAMON JOSEPH ALVAREZ DURANT

(FORMER SAFEHOUSE KEEPER), GEORGE MUNRO, CHARLES FLICK AND

ROBERT ZAMBERNARDI SHOULD BE CONDUCTED MEXICO OR WITHIN CONTINENTAL

U.S. IF STATION AMENABLE ASCA INTERVIEWING THESE INDIVIDUALS

MEXICO SUGGEST INTERVIEWS BE CONDUCTED IN EMBASSY. IF THESE

INTERVIEWS CONDUCTED MEXICO, STATION SHOULD POUCH

ALL NOTES

TAKEN BY INTERVIEWERS TO MOS ATTENTION OTIS C. VIGEANT. PLS

ADVISE.

•4. HSCA HAS FOLLOWING SPECIFIC QUESTIONS THEY INTEND TO

SEERET

# 05964

NW 65924 Docld:32347133 Page 2

---

## Page 3

SECRET

STAFF

78 0713565

PAGE 002

TOT: 171906Z MAY 78

DIRECTOR 224314

PUPSUE:

A .

WHAT DID OSWALD OR THE UNIDENTIFIED PERSON

PHOTOGRAPHED OUTSIDE CUBAN AND SOVIET EMBASSIES DO WHILE IN MEXICO?

B.

IDENTIFY ALL LOCAL CUBAN CONSULATE EMPLOYEES

DURING 1963?

c.

HSCA CONFUSED BY INABILITY TO LINK PHOTOGRAPHS OF

PERSONS VISITING SOVIET AND CUBAN EMBASSIES TO TELETAPS.

HSCA HAS BEEN INFORMED THROUGH INTERVIEWS THAT THERE

WERE FIVE TELETAPS BUT HOS RECORDS REVEAL TAKE FROM ONLY THREE

TELETAPS, HSCA WANTS TO IDENTIFY THE OTHER TWO TELETAPS, MSCA

AWARE THERE WERE UNILATERAL TAPS AND THEY DESIRE KNOW IF THESE

WERE ON OFFICIAL CUBAN OR SOVIET INSTALLATIONS.

IN PHOTO COVERAGE OF CUBAN EMBASSY THERE WERE THREE

CAMERA POSITIONS BUT HOS PHOTOS MADE AVAILABLE

TO HSCA APPEAR TO

BE FROM ONLY TWO CAMERA POSITIONS, ASCA HOPES TO CLARIFY.

F. MSCA HAS. INQUIRED IF

STATION CAN ASSIST IN

ARRANGING MEETINGS WITH MEXICAN OFFICIALS WHO KNOWLEDGEABLE THIS

INVESTIGATION, DEFER STATION JUDGMENT RE THIS REQUEST DUE

EMBASSY INVOLVEMENT PARA 2, ABOVE.

5. PLS PROVIDE NAME OF STATION OFFICER WITH WHOM MR. CORNWELL

CAN BE IN CONTACT WITH DURING VISIT.

6.

HSCA OPEN TO ANY STATION GUIDANCE RE PROCEDURES TO BE

"FOLLOWED DURING THEIR VISIT.

HSCA ASSUMES MEXICAN AUTHORITIES

WILL MONITOR THEIR ACTIVITIES AND INTERVIEWS WITH MEXICAN

NATIONALS.

7. FYI ONLY: HSCA STAFFERS CORNWELL, HARDWAY, AND

LOPEZ HAVE RECENTLY VISITED CUBA IN CONNECTION WITH THEIR

INVESTIGATION. MR. CORNWELL IS MATURE, DISCREET, AGGRESSIVE

AND EXPERIENCED ATTORNEY/PROSECUTOR.

MR. LEAP IS MATURE AND

EXPERIENCED INVESTIGATOR.

MESSRS,

HARDWAY AND LOPEZ ARE YOUNG

RESEARCHERS WHO ARE SOMEWHAT IMPETUOUS AND "FREE SPIRITED,"

MR. LOPEZ IS BI-LINGUAL AND HAS MEXICAN/LATIN AMERICAN

APPEARANCE. ALL

HSCA STAFFERS FULLY CLEARED.

6.

PLS REPLY IMMEDIATE BY COB 18 MAY 1978.

EZ. IMPDET,>

ORIG:

C/LA/STB (STURBITTS X9127); COORD: SA/DO/0 (SHEPANEK),

CI/EXO (HOLMES), OLC; AUTH: AC/LAMESB (LEHMAN); REL:

C/LA

SEGRET

NW 65924 Docld:32347133 Page 3

---

## Page 4

78 0713565

(WAKREN); CL BY: 029163.

END OF MESSAGE

NW 65924 Docld:32347133 Page 4

SECRET

STAFF

PAGE 003

TOT: 171906Z MAY 78

DIRECTOR 224314

SECRET

---

