# DOCID-32418844

## Page 1

104-10186-10311

•1.

Heleased under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Colection act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note]. Case#:NW

55997 Date: 10-29.202

FINFORMATIO

NE REPORTA

MINFORMATION RERORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

*hich la any mianner lo an unaultitions peros le probibited by law

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

REPORT NO.

DATE DISTR

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

COUNTRY Cuba

SUBJECT

CS-311/05330-64

3 November 1964

Policy Guidance Directives for

Cuban Intelligence •Representa-

tives in Guatemala

8

CS-311/00115-64

CS-311/00345-64

DATE Of

INFO.

1963

RETURN TO CIA

PLACE &

Background Use Only

DATE ASQ. June 1961

FIELO REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINOS ARE DEFINITIVE, APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE

-Do Not Reproduce

SOURCE:

A former Cuban intelligence officer who served with the Cuban

Inteligence Service until April 1964.

lleadguartors Comment.

The following is n translation of a

which Source provided containing the policy guidance

directive for Cuban intelligence representatives in Guatemala,

prepared by the General Dircotorate of Intelligence (Dirección

General de

Inteligencia - DGl), MA Department.

ment no longer exists

departments:

as such, having veen divided into two

Mlega) Department (Ilegal) and National Libera-

tion Department (Liberación Nacional

directive

to have been prepared prior to the overthrow of

President Miguel Ydígoras Fuentes.

DIRECTIVES OF THE M-A SECTION: GUATEMALA

IMPERATIVE:

1. - Collective action.

- The fight for national liberation.

- Training camps and bases of operation.

1. - The armed forces of Guatemala.

5. - The Conmunist Party of Guatemala.

6. - Counterrevolutionary organizations.

7. - Relations with the U.S.A.

- Position of the political parties toward the Cuban Revolution.

- The clections.

- Movement of solidarity

with Cuba.

- Repressive organizations.

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

STATE

1 DIA

ARMY

REPCINCLAST

CINCSO =

(Nola. Field distribution indicared by "'#".)

MAYY

I&NS

1 AIR

INFORMATION REPORT

INSA

TOCR

I FBI

2

INFORMATION REPORI

LS-1914

NP

(AMMUG-])

CS-311/05330-64

Fes Distributien See Llached Pric

CU/IS

12 COr AF/OSE, ACSI,

eNI1

_SX. FBI. D,Lt

TOTAL IE S,C1 21, RID/AY 1,HH/SA 16(5), SK

A,F1

3I LIAISON

NW 65987 Docld:32418344 PagefF &(s), EE 8(1D) EL 12(8), NE 7(19)

RAG RHT

: el

---

## Page 2

104-10186-10311

Hidgrs Dissom

#II/COPS

WH/PO/A

WHI/PO/B

WHl/1

WH/2

WH/3

WH/3/V

wIl/4

WH/5

WH/6

WH/R

WH/SA/EOB

WH/SA/MOB

WH/SA/R

WHI/SA/Int

WH/SA/CI

WH/SA/SO/NS

CI/Staff .

CI Liaison

CI/R&A

RID/AN

AF/1

AF/2

AF/3

AF/4

AF/R

AF/CI

EE/K

EE/SA

EE/BR

EE/YA

EE/II

EE/P

EE/C

EE/IIS

FE/PMI/I

FE/JKO/30

FE/JKO/K

FE,/ VNC/VN

FE/R

FE/CI

NE/AA/L&S

NE/AA/AP

NE/AA/E

NE/AA/1

NE/5/P

NE/G/C&I

NE/Intel

WE/1

WE/2

10/pV

NW 65987 Docld:32418844 Page 2

• 7.

1

1

13

5

5

1

1

1

1

1

1

1

99

S-F.-C-H-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

- 10.

RE/3

WE/ 4

WE/5

WE/BC

WE/R

1

•1

1

1

SR/CI

SR/CI/K

SR/RR

SR/O/WH

1

Field Dissem

WH/MEXI

WH/MNTY

WH/MRID

WH/SDOM

WH/PIBO

WH/POSN

WH/KNGS

WH/PRIN

WH/GORG

WH/PACY

WH/MANA

WH/SJOS

WH/SALV

WII/TEGU

WH/GUAT

WH/LAPA

WH/BOGO

WH/QUIT

WH/GAYA

WH/LIMA

#HI/CARA

WH/BUEN

WH/COBA

WH/MONT

WH/ASUN

WII/SAGO

WH/RIOD

WH/CURI

WH/BRIL

WH/SAOP

WH/BITA

WH/BEHO

WH/LGRF.

WH/RECI

WH/SA/WAVE

1

1

1

1

1

5

AF/ALGI

AF/ORNA

AF/RABA

AF/CASB

AF/ACCR

AF/CNRY

AF/BAKO

AF/DARE

1

1

1

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

•CS-311/05330-64

EE/VIET

EE/SBER

EE/CYRU

EE/ATHE :

EE/KAVA

EE/SLON

EE/BERN

EE/GITA

EE/ZURI

EE/HAXB

FE/DJAK

FE/XEDN

FE/SURA

FE/TOKY

FE/OKIE

FE/SEOU

LFE/SAIG

NE/COLO

NE/NEND

NE/ BOMB

NE/CALC

NE/MDRS

NE/KUWA

NE/KAHI •

NE/DACC

NE/ LAHO

NE/RAWL

NE/BAGH

NE/BEIR

NE/DANA

NE/ ALEP

NE/JIDD

ANE/DAHLA

NE/TAIZ

NE/CAIR

NE/ALEX

WE/BRUS

WE/COPE

WE/HELS

WE/OTTA

WE/ROME

WE/MILA

WE/HAGU

SWE/OSLO

_WE/LISB

WE/MADR

WE/BARC

WE/STOC

/WE/LOND

WE/PARI

1

1

1

1

1

1

1

1

1

1

Liaison Dissem

IE/ Canada

(SCHP)

IE/British

L/HASH/BR/

10 1

---

## Page 3

104-10186-10311

S-F.-C-R-E-T

NO

FOREIGN DISSEM

- 2 -

CS-311/05330-64

IMPORTANT:

13: - Internal sotte on one cente forces.

Internal

14.

The Church.

15.

- Structure

16. - Function, characteristics,

on the members

foreign service and of the accredited diplomatic corps in

the country.

17. - The press.

NECESSARY:

18. - State of the

National Economy.

19. - Belize.

LINES AND OBJECTIVES OF INFORMATION:

GUATEMALA

INPERATIVE:

1. COLLECTIVE ACTION

a) Agreements adopted in the OAS, ODECA, and CDCA to attain

a joint action of the Central American or Latin American

armies against Cuba, of a political nature based on the

agreements of tie inter-American system.

b) Mobilization and preparation of the Guatemalan Army to

this end; men and equipment which would participate;

units and the number of units; leaders in charge.

c)

Movements and joint military operations in Guatemalan

territory together with the army of other Central American

countries; provocations intended to present Cuba's

aggression

for this purpose; place and date.

d) Central American secret military meetings at which

agreements are reached and plans are discussed.

e) Measures against trips to and from Cuba.

f) Possibilities of breaking with Cuba by any Latin American

countries which maintain relations.

2. THE STRUGGLES FOR LIBERATION

a) The guerrilla movement: groups, organtzation, leaders;

The struggle in the city: groups, leaders, organization

novemen work, work which they do, role of the student

Rebel tendencies within the armed forces; necessity to

penetrate these tendencies.

Relations between the groups which operate in the city and

those operating in the country.

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

NW 65987 Docld:32418844 Page 3

---

## Page 4

104-10186-10311

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

- 3 -

CS-311/05330-64

e) Relations of the exiled glements with the rebel movement.

() Present state and development of unity between the rebel

forces:

the Clvic Front, the COR, the Rebellion Bloc.

8) Permanent and periodic contacts with all of the forces of

the left.

h) Position of the PGT on the unification of the Central

American Comnunist Parties in regard to the devclopment

of guerrilla warfare.

1) Position of the rebel forces toward the Cuban Revolution.

3.

TRAINING CAMPS AND BASES OF OPERATION:

a)

territory.

b) Organizations which are at the head of the training camps.

these camps; type of training and

its duration; mercenaries' zones of access into the

country: transport used for this; instructors; mobillza-

tion and concentration of the mercenaries.

c) Cover under which the training camps operate and the

conditions of these camps; participation in the training

of mercenary elements of other countries.

d) Zone of Peten, training camps: Peten, Izabal, Fallavum,

Bengueviejo,

Melchor

trained

or Campo, and Poptun; elements

there; number and nationality; type of training;

transports of

these elements; duration of training;

instructors; presence of Yankee troops in the camps,

their role.

Plans and immediato objectives of training

and if such was being conducted by the Guatemalan Army;

Yankee leaders in the camps.

e)

Training camps in other zones of the country; character-

istics and goals of chese camps; new camps of the army

used by the Yankees.

Bases of operations of the counterrevolutionary elements;

ships they possess, type and quantity; plans of aggression

and objectives of these elements; departure and return of

1. ARMED FORCES OF GUATEMALA

Armaments and transports

reader of the armed forces.

Estimated appropriations of the armed forces; appropria

ions to each branch

c)

Bilateral agrecments with the

U.s.

Yankee military

missions in these agreements;

their role and function.

Activitics developed by them.

d)

Units and effectives of the Guatemalan armed forces avail-

able to become part of the CDCA forces.

Participation of

the Guatenalan armed forces.

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

NW 65987 Docld:32418844 Page 4

---

## Page 5

104-10186-10311

S-E-C-R-E-T

FOREIGN DISSEM

-1 -

C5-311/05330-64 .

Unit's and strength of the armed forces with anti-guerrilla

training.

Duration of this type of training.

0111cerg

who are instructors in the courses.

Manuals

used (copies):

modern arnaments used.

Transports and armaments which

these troops have on hand.

• f)

troops of miNGERs within the Guatemalan Army; units and

strength: duration of training; armaments and transports;

• thoir character.

istics.

5. THE COMMUNIST PARTY OF GUATEMALA (THE PGT)

a) Position toward the Second Declaration of Havana.

b) Position on Cuban-Soviet relations.

c) Position toward the lines followed by Cuba in tho national

and international political order.

d) Position in relation to the disagreements in the Inter-

national Communist Movement.

e) In the case of China and the USSR.

f) In the case of Albanta and the USSR. :

8) In relation to the Yugoslavia-China-USSR and Albania

question.

h) In relation to Peace.

1) In relation to peaceful co-existence.

" Inter 12 gers on the , atyagreeaders (and data on

• k) Relations with the Leftist forces: disagreements; pos-

sibilities of union.

1) Methods of struggle officially adopted by the party.

m) Relations with the guerrilla movement.

n) Necessities of the PGT.

o) Work in the

countryside.

p)

Relations with the bourgeois parties.

q) Party's attitude

toward the elections. Work carried on.

r). Work of solidarity with the Cuban Revolution.

s)

Publicity sedia of the PGT.

Permanent and perlodic contacts with the PGT.

u)

Paity's position in regard to the integration of the

Central American Communist parties in order to develop

guerrilla warfare.

10

S-E-C-R-E-T

FOREIGY DISSEM

NW 65987 Docld:32418844 Page 5

---

## Page 6

104-10186-10311

S-F-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

-5 -

CS-311/05330-64

6. COUNTERREVOLUTIONARY ORGANIZATIONS

a) Delegations of the counterrevolutionary organizations

which

operate in

the

Leaders of the same.

Relations of the

latter. with the government of Guatemala;

oxisting contacts.

b)

Posit lon of Jose 5. Pedraza, relations with idígoras;,

role

of the same in the

training caaps, participation of

the

latter's elements in training: role and functions of the

same in the Guatenalan Armed Forces, ranks

and rosponsi

bilities which they hold.. Contact with Ydigoras and the

government.

Organizations which participate in the meetings with

leaders of government and politics.

Contact of the

organizations with the candidates for the national

presidency, and persons who carry out the contacts.

Commo acations eaten te ranches and laal, througa

7. RELATIONS WITH THE UNITED STATES

a) Alliance for Progress.

b) Reintions with the United States lorn organizations.

United States military aid: rolo of the U,S. Military

Mission.

Training of Guatemalan soldiers in schools of

the U.S. Armed Forces.

d)

Political influence of the United Fruit Co. Nethods o1

ideological penetration.

Radio notworks.

e) The United States Embassy. Data on the activitles of the

Imbassador and the personnel of the Embassy.

8. POSITION OF THE POLITICAL PARTIES TOWARD THE CUBAN REVOLUTION

a) Toward the Second Havana Declaration.

b) Regarding Cuban-Soviet relations on mattors which nffect

Cuba and world peace.

• Regarding the accusations that Cuba is a base of Communis

Iggression against Latin American countries

9. ELECTIONS

b) Electoral activities of the bourgeois political parties

and opposition parties.

c) The governent's electoral campalen.

d) The activities of the Church in the election. Role of the

Auxiliary Bishop Vario Casardego.

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

NW 65987 Docld:32418844 Page 6

---

## Page 7

104-10186-10311

S-F-C-R-E-T

Da FOREIGS DISSEM

CS-311/05330-64

{)

Pressures and zaneuvers of the Undted States In Guat-

cmala

and

general what can be known about the same

In other countries, with respect to the points above.

Information on the mancuvers for rupture with Cuba In

the other countries.

Influence of the banana campalgris [companies? and the

Inited States on the clections.

h) Attitude of the rebel groups toward the elcction.

10. MOVEXENT OF SOLIDARITY WITH CUBA

a)

Learn the capabillty of effective actlons of solidarity

which the rebel organizations have.

11. REPRESSIVE OFGINIZATIONS

a) Guatemalan senders of the Central American intelligence

coordination, their task and functions.

" pia as there

b) Places where Guatemalan Intelligénce has Its offices,

and foreign advisers, persons who operate with

the same, especially Cuban counterrevolutionarlos.

c) Objectives and plans developed to attain the same.

Plans

against Cuba, and internal repression plans for the

countries of the area.

d) Meetings of the chiefs and ministers of the interior of

Meetings of the chiefs

of military intelligence in those countries.

e) Leaders of the military intelligence machinery, officers

and units of the same especially, internal repression

plans and atreets against the cuban revolution.

Coordi-

nation

existing among the various Central American

services.

Persons who represent Guntenala.

Contact with laterpol.

Coordination existing with the

Restrictive measures on travel to Cuba. Agents.

IMPORTANT:

12. DOMESTIC POLICY OF THE COUNTRY

• Bourgeois political parties

composition, strength,

ropaganda media, leaders (data on the same), program

relations of the bourgcois political parties with the

U.S. monopolies.

The Embassy and the Church. =

13. INTERVAL SITUATION OF THE ARNED FORCES

a) coups alchin she armed forces inelined to perpotrate a

b) Data on the military chiefs and their activities.

Hork of the duriliary Archbishop Mario Casariego within

the armed forces and in relation to the armed forces of

other Central Arrican countries.

S-L-C-R-E-T

SO FURLIGN DISSEM

NW 65987 Docld:32418844 Page 7

---

## Page 8

104-10186-10311

S-E-E-R-E-T

NO FOREIGS DISSEM

CS-312/05330-64

d) Data on the military sho aro in the international

organizations

(IDE. (S)

and of the military attachés

in and from

Latin American countries.

11. THE CHURCH

a) Ecclesiastical hierarcay.

b) Position and relationships between the national clersy

and the foregn clerit.

c) Participation of the Church in the domestic policy of

the country.

Secular organizations of the Church (Catholic Morking

Youth, etc.).

•) Campaigns of the Church: reasoning used against Cuba.

f) Influence of the Church in the education of the country.

8) Connect one between repla, had or of the United

h) Relationship betweer. the Church and the armed forces.

15.

STRUCTURE OF THE GOVERNUENT AND FUNCTIONING OF ITS AGENCIES

n) Relations between the presidency and the ministrios.

b) Data on the persons closest to and most Influential with

ídígoras.

c) The congress.

Outstanding porsonalities.

Relations with

the government and the United States Embassy and the

banana monopolies.

d) Judicial power: persons who occupy the highest appoint-

ments.

Important lans.

Repressive laws. Relations of

the judiclal power with the other powers.

•) Mayors of the principal cittes. Data on the same.

16.

FUNCTIONS,

CHARACTERISTICS,

a) UN.

•b) OAS and IDB.

c) Officials in and of the lutin American countries.

17. THE PRESS

S-E.-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

NW 65987 Docld:32418844 Page 8

---

## Page 9

104-10186-10311

...

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

-8-

CS-311/05530-64

NECESSARY

18. STATE OF THE NATIOVAL ECONOMY

а) Мен

econonic polley of the United Frust Company.

b) United States Investments.

c) U.S. capital existing in the country and its influence.

d) Trend in tho unemployment level.

• The relations of Guatemala with a view to Centra

Anerican

economic integration

19. BELIZE

a) Dispute for the territory of Belize among Mexico,

Honduras, and Guatemala.

b) Differences between England and the United States on the

natter of Bolize.

c) Plans of idígoras to annex Bolizo.

d)

Possibility of establishing a centor in Beltze.

i

1

.. оі-о..:

..

.

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

NW 65987 Docld:32418844 Page 9

---

