# DOCID-32412836

## Page 1

104-10179-10204

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Flecords Collection Act of

11 992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

65987 Date: 10-28-2021

..

une 11-63

NO FOREISY DISSEN

• ROUTINE

:

CONFIDENTIAL

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

Intelligence Information Cable

COUNTRY VENEZUELA

CUBA

DATE OF

MID TO LATE TEERUARY 1964

INFO.

- SUBJECT

EVOVUT IOS EY JANTE DAY REVORO, MCAO OR IME CUBAN

PLACE &

DATE ACQ.

VENEZUELA, CARACAS (3 MARCH 1964)

TDCS - 3/574,865

DISTR. 6 MARCH 1964

REF

IN 34189

FIELD REPORTNO. MVC 2885

APPRAISALI A FOREIGN JOURNALIST

IN VENEZUELA WHO MAS EXTENSIVE CONTACTS IN THE CUBAN EXILE

COMMUNITY AND WHO HAS BEEN A RELIABLE REPORTER ON EXILE ACTIVITIES IN THE PAST.

IT IS KNOWN, HOWEVER, THAT SOURCE AND RAY HAVE WIDELY DIVERGENT POLITICAL VIEWS.

SOURCE RECEIVED THE INFORMATION AS FOLLOWS: PARAGRAPH 1 FROM EMILIO FERNANDEZ,

A CUBAN INSURANCE EXECUTIVE IN CARACAS, FROM QUINTANA, PARAGRAPH 2 FROM EMILIO

REVOLUTIONARY BE UPER ON SO ERA CO O

CBORBOMATOR IN VENEZUELA,

1.' JORGE QUINTANA, A JOURNALIST FOR THE BOHEMIA LIBRE MAGAZINE AND

SYMPATHIZER OF THE CUBAN REVOLUTIONARY JUNTA (JURE) IN VENEZUELA,

• SAID ON 25 FEBRUARY 1964 THAT WHEN MANUEL RAY REVERO, LEADER OF JURE,

ARRIVED IN VENEZUELA ON 18 FEBRUARY HE BROUGHT WITH HIM 25,500 U.S.

DOLLARS TO INVEST IN A LOW-COST HOUSING PROJECT. QUINTANA SAID THAT

RAY'S ASSOCIATE IN THIS PROJECT IS HANS NEUMAN, CO-OWNER OF PINTURAS

MONTANA, C.A. IN VENEZUELA, AND THAT RAY WILL RECEIVE A MONTHLY INCOME

OF BETWEEN 108.DD AND 5PS-DE U.S. DOLLARS FOR HIS INVESTMENT. QUINTANA

THEN QUOTED RAY AS SAYING THAT HE (RAY) WOULD BE GOING TO CUBA

IN THE NEAR FUTURE AND, CONVINCED HE WOULD DIE THERE, HAD TO INSUPE

CONFIDENTIAL

NO FIRLICA DISSEM

TAILINR

ARMY/ACSI

NAVY AIR IS SECDES NSA NIE AID USLA OCI ONE OCR DRA DO FBI

RIPCIOCIRT

TREASURY

NW 65987 Docld:32412836 Page 1

---

## Page 2

104-10179-10204

CLASSIRICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

• NFIDENTIAL

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

TDES - 3/574.565

00.. - a A Runars: 150%

PAcK

A SECURE FUTURE FOR HIS WIFE AND FAMILY, (FIELD CONMENT:

IN 1948 ONE HANS NEUMAN WAS REPORTED AS A CZECH COMMUNIST

(PORTION GARBLED - BEING SERVICEDY MEXICO. UNCONFIRMED

ALLEGATIONS WHICH A VENEZUELAN SECURITY SERVICE) RECEIVED

FROM AN UNIDENTIFIED SOURCE CHARSED THE DIRECTORS OF PINTURAS

MONTANA AS BEING COMMUNISTS WHO ARE USING THE PROFITS FROM THEIR FIRM

TO FINANCE COMMUNIST ESPIONAGE AND PROPAGANDA ACTIVITIES IN VENEZUELA.)

2. LUIS MIGUEL MARTINEZ, A MEMBER OF JURE IN CARACAS, SAID ON 25

FEBRUARY THAT THE 25, DOD.DD U.S. DOLLARS RAY BROUGHT WITH HIM TO VENEZ-

VELA WAS ORIGINALLY COLLECTED FOR JURE'S OPERATIONS AGAINST CUBA.

MARTINEZ SAID THAT THE INCOME RAY WOULD RECEIVE FROM THE HOUSING PROJECT

WOULD BE BASED ON THE SQUARE FOOTAGE OF EACH HOUSE CONSTRUÇTED AND THAT'

RAY'S PURPOSE IN MAKING THIS INVESTMENT WAS TO SAFEGUARD HIS FAMILY'S

FUTURE. (SOURCE COMMENT: THE VENEZUELAN CUBAN EXILE COMMUNITY HAS

BEEN DEEPLY SHOCKED BY REPORTS THAT RAY USED MONEY GIVEN HIM SY FRIENDS

AND ACQUAINTANCES FOR ANTI-CASTRO OPERATIONS FOR HIS OWN PERSONAL BENEFIT.

3. IN LATE FEBRUARY, THE WIFE OF JOSE VAZQUEZ BLANCO, FORMER CUSAN

CONSUL IN CARACAS, QUOTED HER HUSBAND AS SAYING THAT HE WAS PROFOUNDLY

DISILLUSIONED BY THE FACT THAT RAY DEPOSITED 25, DER U.S. DOLLARS

IN A CARACAS BANK IN. CONNECTION WITH A HOUSING PLAN. (SOURCE CONMENT:

BEFORE RAY LEFT VENEZUELA CN 22 FEBRUARY, HE WAS INTERVIEWED BY DR.

MARIO MAURIELLO, MANAGING DIRECTOR OF THE BANCO OBRERO DE VENEZUELA,

IN CONNECTION WITH THE LOW-COST HOUSING PROJECT. FOR WHICH

RAY HAD

GLASSIFiCATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

CONFIDENTIAL

NO FOREICA ANTOI

V/BR

NW 65987 Docld:32412836 Page 2

---

## Page 3

104-10179-10204

CLASSIFICATION.

DISSEMIMATION CONTROLS

CONFIDENTIAL

lem 34189

NO FORESA DANCE

/DOS -3/574,865

enor 3

BROUGHT PLANS AND BLUEPRINTS. IT IS CURRENTLY BEING SAID AMONG THE CUBAN

EXILE COMMUNITY IN CARACAS THAT RAY'S PLAN WAS W'ELL RECEIVED BY REPRE-

SENTATIVES OF ACCION DEMOCRATICA-GOBIERNO (AI-GOV, DEMOCRATIC ACTION-

GOVERNMENT) SINCE IT MIGHT PROVIDE AD-GOV WIT. A COUNTERPROPOSAL TO THE

COPEI (SOCIAL CHRISTIAN) PARTY'S PROGRAM TO CONSTRUCT "IDD, DAT HOUSES

A YEAR".)

4. FIELD DISSEM: STATE ARMY NAVY AIR CIRCSO EARCLANT.

5º "(HEADQUARTIRS

COMMENT: MISSING PORTION WILL BE

DISSEMINATIO ONLY IF IT

MATERIALLY AFFECTS THE

SENSE OF THIS REPORT.)

END OF MESSAGE

CAMRCATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

CONFIDENTIAL

NW 65987: Docld:32412836 Page 3

---

