# DOCID-32403622

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION •SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER

: 104-10322-10068

RECORD

SERIES

: JFK

AGENCY FILE

NUMBER

: CIA-EXEC REG FILES

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM : ROCCA. C/CI/R&A

TO : DCI

TITLE : MEMO: AUSTRALIAN PRESS REQUEST REGARDING: ANONYMOUS

TELEPHONE CALLS TO U.S. EMBASSY IN CANBERRA. RELATIVE

TO PLANNED ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT KENNEDY

DATE: 04/02/1968

PAGES

: 1

SUBJECTS : WARREN COMM.

DOCUMENT TYPE

: PAPER

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

RESTRICTIONS

1B

CURRENT STATUS

RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

03/17/99

COMMENTS

JFK-M-13 : F2: 1999.03.17.13:39:42:890120

ATTACHMENTS NOT INCLUDED. FOLDER TITLE: K-2/WARREN

COMMISSION

65990 Date: 11-01-2021

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10322-10068

NW 65990 Docld:32403622 Page 1

---

## Page 2

:

SECRET

DD/P 8:1350

2 APR 1968

Executive Registry

168-1505/2

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director of Central Intelligence

SUBJECT

: Australian Press Request Regarding:

Anonymous Telephone Calls to United States

Embassy in Canberra, Australia, Relative to

Planned Assassination of President Kennedy

(Warren Commission Document 971)

Background

Mr. Peter Michelmore, an Australian newspaper representative,

has requested that we declassify CD971. This consists of a memoran-

dum from you to Mr. Rankin dated 22 May 1964 and an attachment dated

29 November 1963. Both relate to "crank" calls received by the U.S.

Naval Attache in Canberra on 15 October 1962 and 23 November 1963.

CIA first was told about these calls on 24 November 1963 by the Depart-

ment of the Navy - after the assassination of President Kennedy. A

copy of CD971 is attached for your information.

Recommendation

1. CD971 should not be released at this time. Mr. Goodwin says

he can handle the reply by phone.

2. We will initiate preparatory steps toward releasing CD97l. This

entails clearance with U.S. naval intelligence and the Australian security

service (the latter as a matter of courtesy).

3. Upon completion of step 2, we will submit an appropriate rec-

ommendation.

Raymond G. Rocca

C/CI/R&A

Attachments

(EXECUTIE REGISTRY

ALE

K-2.1 SECRET

Excladed trom automatic

dewngrating and

teciascinication.

NW 65990 Docld:32403622 Page 2

---

