# DOCID-32332912

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/11/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90104-10210

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-2940-60

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

546T8 Date: 10-28-2021

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: PG

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 11/16/1960

' PAGES:

12

SUBJECTS :

SEBASTIAN JOHN LAROCCA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/31/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: RPT

v9.1

NW 64578 Docld:32332912 Page 1

6

---

## Page 2

Report Furm.

FD-263 (5-12-55.)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Reporting Office

PITTSBURGH

Offico of Origin

PITTSBURGH

TITLE OF CASE

SEBASTIAN JOHN LA ROCCA, aka.

Date

11/16/60

Report made by

Investigative Period

9/13-10/31/60

ANTI-RACKETEERING

Typed By:

HKK

• Буроффур

REFERENCE

Report of SA SAMUEL A. MILLER, Pittsburgh, 9/15/60.

-P-

LEADS

NEWARK ( INFORMATION)

A copy of this report 1s being sent to the Newark Office for information

purposes in view of the fact that the Newark Office has an outstanding

lead in this matter.

PHILADELPHIA (INFORMATION)

A copy of this report 1s being sent to the Philadelphia Office for

information purposes in view of the attendance of the adopted son of

LA ROCCA at Valley Forge Military Academy at Wayne, Pa., and the

occasional visits made by LA ROCCA and former Pittsburgh top hoodlum./

ANTONIO RIPEPI to the vicinity during the school year.

Approved

13)

Special Agent

in Charde

3-Bureau (92-2940)

I-Newark (Info)

I-Philadelphia (Info) (92-497)

2-Pittsburgh (92-226)

Do not write in spaces below

92-2940+60

REC- 50

EX- 130

....

11O NOV 18

960

Cal sint to Chin I.

a dept

0500

12/21/40

Coly in 47.10

nae

DATE 6/81783Y

AT FAINS ANU OR OELI

FATEST

DATED

Property of FBI —

- This report is loaned to yo

62DEC 22

of its contents are to be distributed outside the agency to which loomed.

WSOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1056 O- 385910

NW 64578 Docld:32332912 Page 2

---

## Page 3

PG: 92-226

PITTSBURGH

At Pittsburgh, Pa. (Allegheny County)

1. Will continue contacting established potential and actual

criminal informants of the Pittsburgh Office in order that

complete coverage may be obtained regarding any new interests

Of LA ROCCA and his close associates MIKE GENOVESE and ARTHUR

D. NELSON, noting that a great deal of empnasis 1s

being

placed on

legitimate enterprises as far as this trio is concerned.

2. Will maintain contact with the Chief of Police of the

McCandless Township Police Department and those officers conduct-

ing regular spot checks in the neighborhood in which LA ROCCA

resides so that immediate notification by them may be made of

any unusual activity observed in the vicinity of that residence.

3. Will maintain contact with the U.S. Attorney and the U.s.:

Marshal for the Western District of Pennsylvania so that any

new information concerning the issuance of a subpoena for the

appearance of LA ROCCA or his associates anywhere may be

immediately brought to the attention of the Pittsburgh isl office.

4. Will check the list d toll calls made from Forest 4-5290, the

home telephone of LA ROCCA; for the names of racket associates

and personal business contacts of the subject not now known

to the Pittsburgh office and will further identify and

obtain appropriate background information of subseribers to

telephone numbers recently called.

5. Will make spot surveillances in the Pittsburgh vicinity of

the establishments regularly visited by LA ROCCA and, when

advisable, will conduet physical surveillances of the subject

on a periodic basis so that his habits and pertinent contacts

may be ascertained.

CRIMINAL INFORMANT COVERAGE

The following Individuals are presently being utilized by the

Pittsburgh Office In the SEBASTIAN JOHN LA ROCCA investigation:

PG 573-C, who 1s extremely friendly with the GENOVESE brothers

and particularly FIORE GENOVESE, younger brother of MIKE GENOVESE,

COVER PAGE

20105 - 80588

NW 64578 Docld:32332912 Page 3

---

## Page 4

PG 92-226

and who is presently being utilized for the general coverage of

the Red Eagle Club and 1ts visitors.

PG 585-C, who is well acquainted with most of Pittsburgh's Top

Hoodlums and who was formerly employed as a waitress in the

Red Eagle Club, once known as the Genovese Cocktail Lounge,

412 Larimer Ave., Pittsburgh. Informant still visits this

establishment and comes in constant contact with MIKE GENOVESE

and other members of Pittsburgh's racketeering element in her

role as a medium-priced prostitute.

Informant is presently *

traveling with Mrs. JULIA MINTZ, widow of JAKE MINTZ, CO-owner

Of ELZARD CHARLES, former world's heavyweight boxing champion.

She is presently being utilized for the coverage of the Genovese-

La Rocca-Nelson interests.

GEORGE "MOON" MESSER, a PCI who is presently very active in

Pitts burgh numbers operations and who was arrested during

the month of August, 1958, in connection with his operation.

He is intimately acquainted with many Pittsburgh top hoodlums

and racketeers through association with them when they began

their racket careers. He is presently being utilized for coverage

of the Genovese-Nelson interests and is also contributing

information regarding the VOLPE brothers who are close associates

Of GENOVESE and LA ROCCA.

GEORGE "ZIP" ZAPPA, a PCI of the Pittsburgh Office presently

engaged in racket activity in the City of Pittsburgh who is being

utilized for general coverage of lottery and numbers operations

in the Pittsburgh area.

HENRY J.

BARBER, a PCI of the Pittsburgh Office who is part

owner of the notorious gambling establishment at chester,

w.Va., known as Club 30, who is being utilized for information

concerning the club and the interest in it of Pittsburgh hoodlums

associated with both LiA ROCCA and GENOVESE.

MISs MARIAN FOGEL, a PCI of the Pittsburgh Office who is being

utilized for information concerning Pittsburgh prostitution

activities and as a check on the activities of PG 585-c.

AL BUCK, former Alleghepy County Detective and now Vice President

of the Fidellty Trust Co., Loan Department, Pittsburgh, who 18

being utilized for his

knowledge of the Bankers Exchange in

-C-

COVER PAGE

+ 0108-10510

NW 64578 Docld:32332912 Page 4

---

## Page 5

PG 92-226

Pittsburgh from which he can obtain Information regarding bank

loans made to Pittsburgh top hoodlums.

BUCK is also familiar

with the activities of several of Pittsburgh's top hoodlums,

particularly those of LA ROCCA, from having worked on criminal

matters for many years in the City of Pittsburgh.

HERMAN ISRAEL, a confidential source of the Pittsburgh Office

who is being utilized for information concerning the MANNARINO

organization in New Kensington, Pa., and who is also furnishing

Information regarding tie-ups with

Pittsburgh.

the GENOVESE organization in

WILLIAM A. DOBKIN, a confidential source of the Pittsburgh Office

who

was extremely helpful to Pittsburgh Agents during the

investigation of the RALPH KINER extortion investigation several

years ago and whose brother-in-law, NORMAN FARBER, 1s a member of

the

MANNARINO organization.

In an effort to increase criminal informant coverage, the

PCIs under development are being contacted on a continuing

and regular basis so that information obtained from them may

be used on a day-to-day basis in connection with spot

surveillances of the establishments frequented by the subject

when he is in the Pittsburgh vicinity.

INFORMANT COVERAGE RELATING TO THIS REPORT

The source who furnished information relating to the telephone

toll calls made to and from the LA ROCCA residence is WILLIAM

MEREDITH, SA, Bell Telephone Company of Pennsylvania, who was

contacted by IC GEORGE C. DIPPOLD on 10/30/60 and who has requested

that his identity be concealed.

PG T-1 1s GEORGE (MOON) MESSER, a PCI of the Pittsburgh Office who

was. contacted by SA ROBERT A. VOEGE on 9/13/60.

PG T-2 Is PG 585-C who was contacted by SA ROBERT A. VOEGE on

9/16/60.

PG T-3 1s PG 612-C who was contacted by SA RICHARD GORDON DOUCE

on 1074/60.

-D*-

COVER PAGE

80109-10910

NW 64578 Docld:32332912 Page 5

---

