# DOCID-32164997

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

• Date:

11/18/20

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10157-10022

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

105-82555-383

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

LEG, MX

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

Released under the John F. Kennedy

issassination Records Collection Act ol

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note]. Case#:NW

55994 Date: 11-01-2021

DATE: 11/29/1963

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

LHO, POST-RP, ASSOC, ALLEGED PRESENCE IN MX 9/18/63

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

• RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 12/10/1997

OPENING. CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS :

NW 65994 Docld:32164997 Page 1

---

## Page 2

N1.: 1.X1

LON CONTA 11425

sulliv

Belie

memo

D AIRGRAM

URGENT

TO/ DIRECTOR

FROM LEGAT MEXICO CITY

Tolson

REG 56

Belmont

Mohr

-

Casper

ДЕСОБЕВОРУ

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans -

Rosen LAR

0125

Sullivan

we Tavel -

Trotter .

xX CABLEGRAM

RADIO

TELETYPE

Tele. Room

Holmes

11-29-63

4.28 1 9803 ROP|KSRA HAS MA PETION TO

Bestanding an

Malia

JFK

LI SHOWNP

BUFILE 105-82555.

Exempt

LEE HARVEY OSWALD, IS - R.

percin 1+9 7-28-87041

AMBASSADOR MANN LATE THIS AFTERNOON EXHIBITED TO ME CABLE, CLAS

SIFIED SECRET, NUMBER 415 DATED NOVEMBER 28 LAST SENT TO HIM BY

ALEXIS JOHNSON. (UL)

IN THIS CABLE JOHNSON ADVISED THAT STATE AND FBI CONCUR WITH AM-

BASSADOR'S RECOMMENDATIONS AND THAT FBI HAD SENT ITS REPRESENTATIVE

HERE GUIDANCE ALONG THESE LINES. (LA)

THERE IS NO DOUBT IN AMBASSADOR'S MIND NOR IN OURS AS TO ROLE WE

ARE TO PLAY IN CONNECTION WITH INVESTIGATION HERE AND JOHNSON'S

CABLE MENTIONED ONLY FOR INFO OF BUREAU IN ORDER THAT IT MAY HAVE

SOME IDEA OF WAY JOHNSON IS HANDLING MATTER THERE UNCLE

LUIS ECHEVERRIA, ACTING MINISTER OF GOBERNACION, THIS AFTERNOONS

ADVISED CIA REPRESENTATIVE THAT INTERROGATION OF GILBERTO, ALVARADO.

UGARTE IS CONTINUING AND ECHEVERRIA FEELS THAT EIGHER ALVARADO IS 2

TELLING TRUTH OR IS BEST LIAR HE HAS EVER SEEN. ECHEVERRIA INDICAT

ED TO CIA REPRESENTATIVE THAT IN GENERAL STORY TOLD BY ALVARADO IS.

SAME AS THAT GIVEN TO CIA. ALVARADO CONTINUES TO, STICK TO DATE OF:

SEPTEMBER 18 AS ONE WHEN HE SAW MONEY PASSED. ECHEVERRIA RECOGNIZES:

THAT IT WOULD HAVE BEEN PRACTICAL IMPOSSIBILITY FOR OSWALD TO HAVE

BEEN IN MEXICO CITY ON THIS DATE BUT BELAEVES ALVARADO

MAY

SIMPLY

BE CONFUSED CONCERNING EXACT DATE.

(U)

nec

'3.?

*(S) [CAPTAIN WHEELOCKJ OF CARAGUAN

I INTELLIGENCE SERVICE ARRIVED.

[REC: 5610

toS: 8252: 386302

WES

copsos made Effegs 1-2

DEC 12 1953

DJC: Cora

EX-105

for renew at TBABQ, by

ESCAre re02

thel ate liger

contaried.

a in the above message is

araphrase

Order to probect aRe Bureau's cryptographic systems.

730

NW 65994 Docld:32164997 Page 2

---

