# DOCID-32374478

## Page 1

104-10196-10027

Best avas-able image

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note]. Case# NW

55.990 Date: 10-29-2021

CIN ACT:!TIES MOU THE MARACO CONASSIOA MVESEIGN10%

Thero is a need to investigate cho role of sno Cld ind the FBI In Cho

insestigasion of các

855n2s Inscion of President Kennedy, and their relation-

ships with bee Harvey. Osuatd. Since severl

asencies laú files on Oundld snich

can be checided agalnse each other, a useful case study ut CIA practlers is

possible. These eucosts should shed lichi on the interception of mall to Russia,

• CIl concein about fand ille-keeping on; conestic political accirities, and ocher

• questionadle accivicles.

Unsesolved questions about the cLi

and the assassination include CIA

coveräg=' of Oswald and mayde an impostor in toxico City, reports that he was

an intoraant, and a contuct wich a U.S. Intelligence operative in Moscow. Thls

cero sumaarises the

avallable record and suzbests specific inquiries.

The Cid aisled the FBI about the Cla file on Oswald, and nay not have

cooperaced fully with the Warren Connission las tha fol and the Defense Depart-

ment did not). For example, the Cli may not have told che commission about all

their records on Oswald's wife or his activities in Mexico, Ihis muno specifies

documents. and people who could clarity the larren Connission's work with the Cla

and their investigation of chese matters.

The Cla nay have.

investigated the assassination nore thoroughly and longes

chan the Commission.

The results" of the CIA Investigation, and possible actions

agalnst Warren keport erltics, should be clarified for the public.

Previously unreported evidence presented here is relevant to the reports

that-a CIA atterat to kill Fidel Castro may have backfired against kennedy.

Oswald or an impersonator, in the company of anti-Gustro Cubans, Visited Cuban

emigrce sylvia Odio in Dallas ind was said to feel that kennedy should have been

shot,. These men were apparently friends of Odio's father, who was imprisoned

in Cuba because öf his role in an assassination attempt againse Castro.

Even

without knouledge of this faci, the Nasren Connission stall considered the olio.

ircident very important and speculated that it night have reflected a conspiracy.

The Cornission's Investigation vas quite insequate = for exarple, in not checising

out reports of an Oswald lodi-alike in Dallas bho las affiliated wich the sane

•nti-fastro erous as Odio's father's co-corspirators against Castro, Tha CIA's

role in chis particular atienpe against Castro, and in the dissemination of

apparently false siories that loucre Konacdy feared that an attempt against

castro which he has auchurized lud bachfired, ruse do exonined fully.

Copiright @ 1975

¡ll riles resoried

Paul Li lloch

1735 tishland Pl., $25

Berteley, Gi Pi109

March 21, 1975

NW 55990 Dold 32371978-Paseb

---

## Page 2

104-10196-10027

CIS ACTITITIES AND DUS MARACH CORMISSION INVESTIGITION

ISTRODUCTION

Federal

intellisance agencies and the Kennedy assassination

The utility of assudy-of the records

•II

THE CIA AND LEE HARTET OSHALO

Questions abode darestic Cli intelligence batherina

Covernreno daguledge of lester sent to Osuald in Pussis

CIA ascension to Osvald's policical accivities

Corputerized

rile entries

fo= Oswald and others

The Sue. Casa Street confeczion.

allegations chac. Oswald nas a ClA informant

Unanswered, questions adout che Cid and the assassination

pnotographs ol possisle Oscald impostor in dexico Cluy

Intercepted coversstions by of about Oswald in Mexico

"Did E. Howash Huss know of Oswald's activities before the assassination?

The hardling of the story of "D"

Corelacion of virious agency files and actions concerning Oswakd

Possible unusual CIl interes= in defeccors

Possible CIA Macact with Oswald chrough alexis Davison

8.

Report of vallis

ageni familiat with Osuald

- Alleged presense of CIs isens aù Packland Hospital

Questlonable incoids of Osuald's

securley clearance

•alleged phoco di hunt and surgis in Dallas

C.

D.

statenent by Jases ingleton-

• Availability of docurentary caterial

III.

THE CIA AND THE INVESTIGATION OF THE ASSASSINATION

A.

Possibility that intonation wis wichheld Eron che Commission

False CIA statesant to the F3I on November 22, 1963

2.

•Topics: on which disclosure ray have been linited

(3)

Marina Oswald

Oswald's contacts with Albert Schweitzer College

The unidenzicied man photographed in Mexico City

3

CId assercions of full disclosure

Key persons in the CIA - Warren Comission Investigation

C.

The CIA's oun investigation of the assassination

1.

CIA capability fur un independent investigation

2.

Uninown CIA conclusions

3.

CId activities relaied to cajeics of the Warren Report

IV.

POSSIBLE LINK BETWEEN TAL KENALUX ESSASSINATION MID CIA ANTI-CASTLO ACTIVITIES

sunnary of the factual basis fos an inquiry

B.

Lini between "Oswald" and a pios to kill Castro

1.

2.

Summary of tha Silvia Odio incidenc

Connection beiicer Odio and an attempo to kill Casiro

c.

D.

Press reports interpreting CIA actions against Castro

Possible relevant kabledge outside che CIA

1.

2.

J.

4.

Casis for E, Howard tuat's blackmail of President Nixon

Muse and assassination attengis against Castro

white House concern

The Warren Corsissiun

E.

Unansorred questions

in this area

rosiscript: lurren Consission sialf spoculacion abour che plio incident

P38

11

1{

18

IS

21

22

22

25

Paul La. lioc!:

sarch 26, l?is

NW:65990_Docd 32374478 Rager

---

## Page 3

104-10196-10027

•CL: ACTIVITIN NO TAG WARREN CONMASCION PEESTIGATION

daren

I.

. d.

INTRODUCTIOY

FEDERAL INTELLICSICE AGENCILS AND THE REMEDY ASSASSIBATIGN

Even before the cisclosures of che lust three months, there were umple

reasons fur an irvesilgacion of improper activities by the Cld and the fol in are

case of Lee Hurvey Oscald, and of the exient of the cooperation between these

agencies and the Wazzen Comlosion.

After the

assassiacion, allegations vere promptly made that. Oswald had been

an inforsone or employes of some intelligence agency fand that cherefore che

Secret Service had not been warned about hin). Even though the warea Cornission

cook these reposts vety seriously, it falled to properly investigate either this

specific charge or the exact nature of the relationships betuzen Oswald and chie

Cha, the FBl, and militasy Incelligence,

The bulk of the Cornission's Investigacion was done througi various federal

agencies, notably the Ell.

Thus these agencies were in large part responsible

for the cöverup of nuch of what the Commission was supposed to be reporting for

the Arerican people. • It is clear, for example, that the FBI nisled the Warren

Cormission about the entent of its files on Oswald, and also in other ways dis-

couraged the chamlosión fron exanining the implications of sone of the Burcau's

Intelligence-gathering rethods - c.&., the interception of several of Oswald's

letters to left-wing political groups. Hoover sidetracked the Commission's

:

Investigacion of the allegation that Oswald had been an

FBi informant, and went

chrough semantic contorcions to deny the fact that Jack Kuby had apparently been

a Potential Criminal Informant for the FbI.

B..

THE UCILITY OF A STUDY OF THE RECORDS

"The Oswald case provides an unusual opportunity, to check the practices and.

records of

one intelligence agency against the files kept by ocher agencies. d

great deal of inforcation has been published by the larren Cornission, made

avallable in che lational Archives, or preserved there but not released. - This

Includes the purporently complete files on Oswald of the CIA, the state Departranto

and the Defense Depacteent (including the Office of daval Incelligence), as vell

as a list of the Fal Headquarters file. There is, houever, evidence that those

files are not complete, and suggestions that sensitive or improper activities,

donestic and foreign, bere not fülly recorded in the appropriate

files. An

analysis of the flos of records in this case could provide a "control" study

•u:clul in oches cases. This would be particularly helpful if credible allegations

of inproper CIA activitles are rot supported by che records nade available co

aile irivestigatina comictees.

NW 65990 Docld:32374478 Page 3e

---

## Page 4

104-10196-10027

- 2-

3/24/15

Ine Jailble polestor of she falls relation alp with, cad files 0s.

espid will he sadinal in a bure 1 anuricides This reno concentrates of the

01:, vich raanosis on specific questions relevan: to domestic Cli

activities,

possible ClA nondisclosure to the barren Connisalon, and possible links batireen

cile assassination ard CIA accerpto to kill Fidel Castro.

Copies of avallable docusents which are cited can be obtained fron ce. where

possible, i have specified knonn but unavailable recurds which mishe se relevane.

I have deliberate!y excluded certain extrenely laplausible allegacions for

shich the purported evidence is weas. Charges have even been nade that the CIa"

or the FBI was responsible for the assassination. Despite the lach of evidence

or logical support for many of these allegations; they are, I chink, a matter of

sussranetal public concern. A serious attempt to answer specific questions which

have been calsed seens approplate. I am concerned that bad evidence tends to

drive out good evidences the necessary rebuttal of some of the wilder allegations

cust not become an excuse for avoiding mure complicuted, but nore plausible,

charges:

Considecatlon should be given to the possibility of disinfornation being

used by some incelligence agency to focus attention anay from less sensational

but more serious charges.

Vithin the past year sorreone has gone to the trouble

of puting together and making available to some Harren Report critics a false

FoI document relating to purported connections: between Jack Ruby and thie federal

governsent: Also, statements have been made about a purported anti-kennedy

diational security Council mere which fif it exlots de all) may well be the result

of a disinformation effort.

II.. THE CIA AND LEE HARVEY OSWALO

.A.: QUESTIONS ABOUT DOMESTIC CIA INTELLICENCE GATHERING

The first three of these questions. may not be very significant in the

assassination Investigition, but they might lead to new information about the

extere of certain questionabla CId activities.

4

'1.

GOVERNMENT KNOWLEDGE OF LETTER SENT TO OSWALD IN RUSSIA

Did

the Cld intercept a letter and money order which Oswald's sother sent

to him shortly after he defecied to fussiu? If, as the recoed suggests, this

did happen, why do the FUl and CIA files given to the Cornission noù fully

• reflect this?

• The first kno:in FBI report relating to Oswald starts wich

the statement

that dis. ilarguerice Osuald "is reported to hove purchused foreign coney trans-

for do, 142, 093° at che first Micionol bunli of Fort locil, Texas, on 1/22/G0 dj

means of shich she seat the sun u! 525 to her son, lee lurvey Osula, in care of

NW 65990 Dold: 22374478 Page 4-A

---

## Page 5

104-10196-10027

noch

- 3-

3/33/.75

¿otel Netropole, doncou, Mussia.3, The Ful cola the bartea Commission irat age

determined on Janubiy 25, 1960, that lies. Marguerite C. Ostald hua transbiated

cre sun of $25' co 0=dala

at the Necropole Moich;" this prosated interviews of

firs. Oswald and her other son.

It seens atypleal that the contemporasy fill report gives no indication of

the oriola of that informarton; that oblasion ray indicate a particulaaly

sensitive source.

Iha recently disclosed CIA project of "selective" interception

o! mall from the U.s, to Russla and China nay have been involved. The Cla has

clilmed that this prodtsa was in operacion in 1960 in only one city.

It 1s also quite possible chat the fol got lis infornation about cuis private

cransaccion frow the bonk. The noney order was purchased on a fridoy, and the

Tol learned of le on londay - which seems a bit fast for a mall interception.

The CIA: Elle on Osuald elven to the Cornission contains no infossation on

chis ocher than the Fbi report.

6 The relevant ful file was not given to ör listed

for the Commission."' The FDI should be asked specifically about their source

for this report.

..2: ...

CIA ATTENTION TO OSHALD'S POLITICAL ACTIVITIES

in che sumner of 1963, Oswald engaged in yarious Legal policical accivitig sitin

In Neu cleans on behalf of the Pale Play for Cuba Connictee, He distributed

Ilterature on the street several cines, once being urrested after getcing into

a scuffle, and parcicipated in a radio debate.

The EBI sent the CIA coples of six reports enticled "Lee Harvey Oswald" or

"Furids Transnteted to Residents of Russia," including four after his fatuen. to

che lase in 3262

• This seems proper, since as a forner resident of Russia he was

of interest to the ClA." It may be nore significant, la terms. of the excent of

CIA attention to domestle dissent, that the FBI also sent the CIn a repori

entitled "Fair Play for Cuba Corsaittee - New Orleans Uirision." In facç, this

report dealt only with Osuald and "A: J. Hidell," later deterained to be his.

8

allas.

An acterpe should be made to understand the disseminarion of that report

inside the Agency - that is, to see whether it was probassed not only

as a repori

on Oswald

but as a report on a politically active group.

That might lead to a

better understarding of the Cli's handling of such inforcation on other groups.

It should be deternined lE any Cla personnel (emplayzes or inforcanes) were

aware of Oswald's activities in New Orleans. The Harre lieport says that the

CIA "cook note of lils faie Ylay for Cubo Cornitice activities in dew Dileaas."?

Incre

is no

footrote for that statenent; it my refer only

co thie

piciansa of

che Fol repost on the apee in Orald"s clifile, but cure should be creciod.

NW 65990 Docld:32374478 Page 5

---

## Page 6

104-10196-10027

3/24/75

3.

CO:PUTSIZED FILE ENTRIES FOR OSWALD AND OTHERS

In the Cll file, the "es copy" of the fol report on the lew Orlcans EPCC

is stagpail "Index," açú hand-ricten noiationa indicate thai tro of the names

céntioned mera indered in a standardized (presusably corputerized) force

One.

was Oswald; the Öher vas Carlos Bringuier, an anti-Castro Cuban citizen living

10

in die:: Orlears.

Appazenily chese men were indexed to record their conneccions with the FPCC

önd the DaS (Revolutionary Student Directorate, possibly a Cli-supported eroup).

respectively. This is in itself of no parcicular significance in.

a connaccion with

the assassination, but an explanation may stied sone light on the ClA's file-building

procedures.

4.

THS SUS CAP STREET CONECTSON

"..

•The nost provocative link between Oswald's activities in few. Orleans and

the CIl is his use of the address 544 Camp Street on some of his pro-casero

licerature. One office in that building had previously been occupied by one of

the cho principal offices of the Cuban Revolutionary Council, a front orcanization

established by the CId (reportedly through E. Howard Hunt)' in connection vich

che bay of Pigs invasion. It is apparently true, as the Warren Report noted, l1

that the CRC had left 544 Camp Street

some time earlier, and that Oswald binself

never actually rented an office there. Hoever, at the time of the assassination;

another office at Ste Canp was occupied by Cuy Banister, a former fBI agent who

was still active in ictelligence work, especially Cuban activities..

The Banister

connection was never pursued by the Warren Commission.

The S44 Camp connection was extensively publicized at the time of Jim

Garrison's "investigation." Humerous reports. surfaced of witnesses who could

Lin's Oscald with David ferrie and others who huss around Banister's office.

Unfortunately many of chese reports core fron sources who must be considered

unreliable, und sno night have had reasons of their own for exaggerating-this link.

The nost promising source of hard evidence on this matter would be a close study

of the pre-assassination FBI and CId records.

Fron a docusent not given to

the l'arren Commission but relcased to ne under

the freedoil of Information Act, it can be firaly established that the ful knew

befora the assassination about Oswald's use of Si4 Camp Strget as an address for

rae Fair Play for Case Connittee.

This fact as not nencioned in che appropriats

conterporanoous reports, and was apparently

not checked out at the tine, even

though BI field offices had been specifically asked to be on the, alert for

free activicies, and the shi did check our other similur leads (such as the les:

Difice box on some of Davuld's literature, and the alias a. J. Hidall).

NWV.65990 Docld:32374478 Page 6

---

## Page 7

104-10196-10027

3/280/85-

Miser the assassinacion, the Fel bid iron ame Commiscion the face shut it

had snore abous escald's use us see Casa Streai earlier, and suppessure the lins

so tanisier by giving his address (531 Lafayerie Street) vitkont indicasing

that it was cha sare coéner buildino as 5ú4 Caip Siccel. Even che linited arount

of docusentary evidence which has not been legs fros the liarren Commission and

the pustic strongly suggests chut the FoI was keeping hunds off Oswald's activicles,

quite plausibly becausa che Bureau believed chas he was not in fict a pro-castro

activist but was sotking for canister of for sose official intelligence agensy..

S.'

ALLEGATIONS THAT OHiLD WAS CIA THEORKINT

The Cornission heard, ard was concerned about, allegations that Usuald had

been a CId offsI informant. The Cornission's rebuttal rested largely on

• ..

affidavits proviced by Cia Director John Molone and J. Edgar Hoover.

13. However,

the nenders of the Connission had been cold in secret session by allen Dulles

¿bat the CIA would generally not adiait. soreone had béen an infornant of agent,

even under oath, excapt at the swectfic direction of the President.!*

This fact,

shich was apparently not passed on so che Connission's working staff, nakes the.

CIA'S pro torna denial cotally worchless.

"An attempt to resolve this natter now should include interrogation of the.

appropriate lower-level ClA personnel. One should also try, to specify and

evaluate che specific sicuations in which Oswald night have been approached by.

the CIA,. One obulous possibitity was on nt's réturn from kussia. From the

existing record, ha was nos debriefed by the CIA, which in lüself seens odd. 15

Unlike another defector who returned at. about the same tine, Oswald was not,

questioned by, the senate internal Security subeoisittee. l6 (Oswald was net on

his return by a case vorker for the Travelers did Society, sho was alsó an

official of an'anti-bolshevik organization with strong intelligence connections. 17,

The extent of the CI's routine coverage of people returning from Pussia is not

known, but it was extensive enough to net a photograph taken by a tourist in

Minsk which (after tha assassination) was found to stow Oswald. The question

is, therefore, not just whether the Cli ever contacied OsHalu, but if not way not.

In 1962, Oswald prepared (and. had typed) a manuscript about his life in

Russia which was full of the kind of details which sigit logically be of interest

to the Chi. The Warren Report's brief account avoids the eviccace that Ostrald

did not keep all

of the ratecial shich was typid for him.

Inquiries should be

nade to sce if the CIA got any of it, perhaps under circunstances which souls

not have led to it being filed under his nane.

consicerable publicit, has been civen to allegacions chu Osuale cas a ria

informant for which chero is no substuncial direct cridence. It should be

noicú chat it is considerauly door litely clac ho had.un informant relazionship

NW 65g90 Docld:32374478 Page 7

---

## Page 8

104-10196-10027

?

Host

3/2÷/75

wire sondone else, raiabig ine Fal, but also perhops military incelligence

o= sure nun-officiai incolligenee organization. i have studied in decail how

cha Fbi failed to adeguately rebut the claid that Oswald was an intochant, and

ros ine Marten Connission responded to Hoover's obvious

displeasure at being

investigüted by failing to, press for satisfactory explanations.

For example, the F3l onlited fron their original listing of Osuald's

address.book the name.of one of the Bureau's Special Agents; the record strongly

sussests that the FBI lied to conceal the fact that the xelevant page of that

listing was retyped.

Also, the for submitted affidavits denying that Osuald

uas an infornant fros several agents, supposedly all of chóse who were in a

position co recruit hig of knew of his service, Some of the affidavits were

revised before being siven to the Connisslon, allegedly wich no matertal alter

ation of the substance, bue the originals are wichheld. Also, no arEsdavies

éte proxicad eroin cho to dev Osigans asents uho had the nost sentace with che

Oswal'd case.

an exanination of the circunstances under which these affidavits

were prepared night be productive.

snother pecullar EBI explaration which the

Cornission never challenged was Hoover's statement chat

the FBI interview

of

Oswald when he was in custody-after the assassination was not only to gather

facis of admissions avout tha shooting, but vas also ained at obtaining "any

iriformation he mighs have been ablé to fürnish of a security nacuce:.20

cryotic language susgests that Oswald had been considered a potential soutss

sinternal securicy infornation: Thase examples are by no means che, only or

even: the strongest indications that the FBl had something in their relationship

with Osuald which they thought necessary to hide fron the liarren Connission.

B.*

UNANSHEREU QUESTIONS ABOUT THE CIA AND THE ASSASSINATIO

This seccion covers a nueber of questions

about the intelligence agencies •

(prinarily the CLA) and the assassination which were not satisfactorily resolved

by the Warren Commission. (They are presented here in surmary form. Further

details and che available docurentation, which cones laciely fron the Cocnission's

records, con be provided by the author.) whacher or not these questions fall

wichin the mandate of the liockefeller and Churci investigations, chey do ried to

be answered. There is no doubt chat a new investigation of the Kennedy assass-

ination should explore these issues, anony, others.

The focus here is on problems

• where a study of the cocumentary record is lifely to be productive, so this sero

Sois into only a stall fraction of the defecis in the Coizission's Case against

Lic Hurray Ossild.

MW 65990 Docld:32374478 Page 8

---

## Page 9

104-10196-10027

3/2:175

ands

PHOTCORAUNS OF FOSSILE OSLE INPOSTON IN MAICO CITY

In Octobar 1963 tho Cid leconco of Osuuld's visit to cha dussian badassy

in Mexico City, Several protograghs vere obtuined, presubly tron o dexican

police surveillance camera de the Embraste ut a still unidenciried Essassy la WaS Mt

visitór to does ros physically reseable Osuald. This min vas identiftel as

osuild in a cry teless to the far before the ausasstation. he explanation

of che piro in idencilicacion, it chat ls whac ic was, vas rot released by che:

harren cormission. Sone GlA explanacion, trué or not, is presusably in the

winneld cocusents at the Atchives. It nay also be that the unidencified can

sis an associase of Osuald, or da inpostor.

2. " INTERCEPTED CONVERSITIONS SI OR ADUUT OSHALD IN MITICO:

As ful report on Osuald ladiexico stronaly suggests chat the ClA later-

cepted at least two phone calls Detween the Cuban and Russian Endussies in wiich

Oswald was discussed. Durira one phone call Oswald was apparently on the phone:

hisself??. The CIA also had decalled knouledse of Oswald's corversacion wich a

guard at the Soviet Embassy, including the face that he spose broken Russian;

• chis conversacion may also have been bugged.

23d recording of these calls hould

De important evidence as to whether an impostor was naking some of these concuces

on Oswald's behalf. The ClA has declined to tell ne whether any such recordeil

conversacions nou exist, of to release any relevant records to se.

3:. DID E. HOWARD HUNI LAVOIN DE OSHALD'S ACTIVITIES BEFORE TITS ASSASSINATION?

It has been reporied that E. Howard Hunt was the CId's acting stagion chief

in Mexico Cicy during duzust and Septenber 1963, which sight overlap wich Oswald's

visit"

starting in lace Septenber.2% Hunt has reportedly denied Ep the Rockefell.

Connission that he nei Oswald at thac time." It should be decerained if lunt

nad any knouledge of Oswald's activities, whether or rot he cat hin.. This

requires an examination of contemporantous CIA records-relating to Oscald, and

an understanding of che flow of concunications within the CIA station. A number

of the internal CIA comunications were turned over to the liarren Cornission (and

are still wichheld)26, however, they muy not include all the infornation needed

to determine uno in the GlA station had substantial corruct with the Oswald case.

4. THE HANULING OF THE STORY OF "D'

An acteapt should be nade to understand what role Did personel night have

played in building up, disseminatina, and then denigrating a report chat Oscara

had received money to kill fenñedy from soneone at til Osbon I-bassy in texico

City. 27

The circunstances sustest that songone with inielligence contactions lias

sagar to push cho ided taut the Cuban goereroni was bisönd the kennedy assassi

aútion.

NW. 65990 Docld:32374478 Page 9

---

## Page 10

104-10196-10027

Hoch

-8.

3/24/73

•The inadiaso sorde of the story doo Gilberto Aluacado Egarte,

"'.

disaraguan bino said to dos trying to pet do cuba on a pereiration mission dor

che nicaraguan sectes Service. Arter a few days he reporintly retrauted his

story, saying that he hid made it up to get che U.S. to tale action against

Castro; then he, vitturer this recraction. lg ulstnately, took a lie detector

rest knich sionou ho was lying, he then said that the lie detector must be

correct. This kied of retraction synests that alvarado til cold the stosy us

an ugent uno later did nos ino whose orders to Collou.

At-flost this

storx was Escated with considerable respect. The CIA Cornia-

featiors uhich vent so the unie louse as well as the fBl, the state bepartnent,

and the Secret Service) show that the agency was taking the allegation quite

serlous: Alvarado was said to be of questionable reliability but not uholly

ciscredired; che Cra described hla as a "very serious person uno speaks ulch

convictlon. "23 -

It is known thät. President Johnson was concernad about a Castro plot when

he see up the Hasren Commission, and that he did nos accept all che conclusions

of the Warren Hepore; it has been reported that he specifically believed that.

the assassination was a retaliatory act by the Cuban Conmunists.?9

That Is,

the apparent effect of the story of "D"- tich nay have been intended was

to inpress upon President johnson (and thus ultimately on the Warren Conaission:

ine pocenciäl chreat i an intenational incident posed by che reports that:

Casciro was behind the assassination, and (by extension) by any alicrnativeito

the lone-assassin hypothesis.

The Harren Kepost concluded that Alvatado was lying about having seen

Osuald, but did not explore the possible implications of a planted false story.

Le is plausible that a major conscious or subconscious rotivation for a coverup

was a desire to avoid allegicions of conspiracy such as this one which vere

thought to be untrue but which night lead to very serious problems.

Some

observers have recognizad a pattern of anti-castro allegations arising from

incelligence-reloted sources, including latergate burglat Frank Sturgis. 30

5. CORRELATION OF VARIOUS AGENCY FILES NAU ACTIOUS CONCEPNING

OSWALD

The files of cha FDI, State, and Marines on Oswald before the assassination

roflect various peculiar astions which might be explained not only by Osald

being an ageni of the agency which was acting oddly, but by a velies that he vas

working for sonzone else. Such an evalustion, di course, vould probably nover

be written corn; it lould be detectable only chrough resulting agency actions or

anissions.

is fur as 1 ino, the Marren conniasino nover did the repriced hird of

NW 65990 Dold: 32374478_Bage 10

---

## Page 11

104-10196-10027

Hoen

-I-

3/24/75

• detailed copsrative study of the incelligence agency files, Coasidesable

attention mis given to the cose stridina

anuaalies in the State Departmene file,

rotably sue Departent's efforis to facilitate Osuild's resusa Croa Russia, and

ease with maich na go= a neu passpora in late 1963. Even in the case of she

Stage Department, hoveves, the Connission diu not get into all cha major questiona

about tre evaluation of Osmold. For example, the Commission exained the reasuns

thy the Passpore Office did not réace to the cla colegran

about Osuald's visic

co the Russian Empussy, but tailed to explore the reiction of ochers, pilarily

the Office of Security, for whoa the telegran wus more relevant.

The relarively spurse Cla file does not reflect ong such serlingly

pecultar actions:

Howaver, close study of the CIn file by an expert nighe reveal

ther aid invihins odd in the Osuald case.

It is quite possible,

for example;

that sogeone in the CIA recognized ichat his defection and return bight have been

¿ mission for (eig.) militaly intellisence, and that the agency cherefore kept

auay fros his cusè, making no atriccas to question liln about his star in Russia.

. 6.'

POSSIBLE UNUSUAL CIA INTEREST IN DEFECTORS

In 1960, the year after Ostald's nove to Russla, the CId and the State

"Department exchanged some correspondence relating to defectors in general.: The

purpose of this suck, which includéd compiling statistics and naking lists of

Americans who had defected, ls not clear.. Alchough this material was given to ..

the.Harren.Comnission, apparently.no-explanotion uas asked for or provided.

There have been rumors that Oico Otepka, who worked on this project and with

Oswald's file while he was head of the State Department's Office of Security, was

suspicious of

the way the Oswald case was handled. He should be given the

opportunity to present any relevant information he night, have.

POSSISLE CIA CONTACT WITH OSWALU THROUGH ALEXIS DAVISON

Osuald's noteboos contained the nage and address of a Pussian living in

• Atlanta who was identified as the mother of che U.S. Erbassy Doctos, Alexis

Davison. Vavison had rourinaly exanired Oswald's wife witen the Crupla was

preparing to recura co the U.S. in 1902. Davison Gave no persuasive explanation

of why he sure his rother's address to the Oswalds, suggesting only an understarding

chat chey could 100k her up if they happened to be in delaata.

Davison told the

Sacret Service he did noü romanher the Oswalds, but later recalled the confact

quite clearly for the fal and said he did not recall Giving his rocher's address

to any oches people who were going back to the ü.5:31

In Deceabor 1952, Davison las chureco by the USS: Mith recrivini inforcation

fro: che dantican say Oles Penhouily, ¡Fritonili, in addicion so his

-NM 65990-Docld: 32374478 Page 1x

---

## Page 12

104-10196-10027

- 10-

•3/200/75

..óetiodal duties

35 a redical doctor

and an Assistant dir átenchó, Davison was

engaged in very sensictve incelligence vori. 1t should be deterataed is he

as any concace wich Oswald in that capacity, or reported to acy intelligence

agency out kin.

I Nis: this tich

?.

HEROIC REUNIS CEL INSE SAULIAR WITH OSLO

George beyoheerschilde, a gun wich nary mmes of fritelligence conneccions

in his oun sucharound to helped the Oscald funily in ballas, rescified choe

before doing so he asked one os core of his trlends le chat would be okay..

One

pesson who he said hew/nave asked about Oswald waste alton: Moore:

uho

ne choudae was on far agene? ore was probably in face with the CIS: he inter-

vlewed DeMohrenschildy at length in 1257 after his trip to tugoslavia.. He did

Tha Harren Cognission seems noc to have been interested in this or other

reports that the government had indicated chat Ossald was not soneone who had

to be avoided?

An attempt should be nade to idencify doore, employer, determine

"that he-knew about Oswald, and what he may have told Deilohrerschilde or anyone

else.

9.

ALLEGED PRESENCE Of CId AGENT AT PARKLAiD HOSPITAL

lichin an hous of the assassination, a ClA agent presented his credentials

to. a Secret Service agent at Parkland Hospital and said that he would be

•availasle." It is not cleur that he night have been expected co do.

A short.

cine later an unknoun FBI agent had to be forcibly restrained from entering the-

energency room. 35

apparently the Connission did not Investigate eicher of these

occurrences. As far as I know the CIA was not asked. uhat action they may have

taken in Dallas or in Washington after Kennedy was shot of after Oswald was

arrested.

•10. QUESTIONABLE RECORDS OS OSWALD'S SECURITY CLEARANCE

One of the peculiuricies in Oswall's nilitaty records which is suggestive.

•of an intelligence connection has to do with his security clearance. The personnel.

file which was Biven to the Coumission by the ilarine Corps reflected only

chat

Oswald had been given a Considential clearance. However, persuasive cesticon

Indicated chat Ostrald (like the other hen in his unit) nust have been cleared ac

least for secret infornicion. When the Comission staff aslied about this discrep-

acc;, the darine Corps suid, in effect, that if Osuald Was doing Secret work thea

nie ruse hive had secrat clearance.

35

The Comnission apparently did not press fur

a proper anster o= ochertise resolve this prouler.

!

NW 65990 Docld:32374478 Page 12am

---

## Page 13

104-10196-10027

-11 -

3/.24/75

Irregulacities ed anis kind at lease raiso the possibility chas Oscald

Pid been "sheep dipped a inue ls, that he vas fornally discharged iron tee

datines shile decually continuing government employment for sore sore of

intelligence coad.

There is fira evidence chat the bepartment of Defense vas

not telling the treas titan de clained that le dud given the Warren Cornission

all of its records on Oskald: His pay records, for exarple, were subtirred

months after that clais. There ls sulid documentary evidence of other onissions:

There are also hines of justher missing records: the FBI was told soon after

che assassination shaz che CIC and CID Elles at the California base where Osuald

had served in 1959 aud raching on Osuald; sone of the Callfornia Marine Corps

files had been forwarded to washingion.

concoln the recores of any investiencion fes e high-level clearánce:

"IL. ALLECCO PHOTO CE HUNT ANO STURCIS IN DALLIS

The Rockefeller Cassission &s reportedly checising out and scbutting the

• allegation that E. Howard tunt and Frank Scurgis (also known as Florini) appear

in the photographs of several nen apparently picked up by the Dallas police

Ionedlately after the assassination. These phorographs represent an authentio

unresolved mysters, it is crue; however, the men pictured have been

"posicively

identified" on previous oscasions; as other "suspects" in the assassination.

Aside fron the absence of any striking similarity in appearance, it is

inherently most unlikaly that a professional intelligence operative like Hunt

(sno got a wig just so interview Dita Beard) would get himself photographed

Hithout a disguise at the scene of an assassination if he had anyching to do

wich it.

While such allegacions should be seriously checked out, they should not be

alloued to distrace accention fron hers plausible but less spectacular evidence

of improper CIN activities in connection with Oswald or the assassination

investigation. To allos that to happen would de to invite disinformation-effores

by the Agency and its frierus.

C. STATEMENT DY JANES NIGLETO:!

It is quite possible that a ilA investigation of the assassination of

President Kennedy was asong tha domestic activities which

recently caused concern

wichin the Agensy. dt she time of his resignation as head of che CIl's Counter-

Intelligence Division, Jaces dngleton was quated as making the following coparis

when Seynour Hersh

asted about alleged CIA icongüoing ard his donestic activities:

id mansion has nasy tours and there were muny things coire un durire lhe periost

of che Lancino: (iT indicion)) tonbingo. J's not prius.

to no strucis jora. "33

IV 65990 Docld:32374478 Page 13%

---

## Page 14

104-10196-10027

412-

3/24/15.

Econ the contexe of raglecon's staterent, it is lapossible do decide

ases he may havo been cocorsica to, sho struck Joha" say do a literary

reference or cliche union is nor famillar lone. It nay haro beer a reference

to some othee John - e.5., Mitchell, Alon, lt is conscivable cut "tha Struck

Solin" uas some sort of code nace for a Cla study of she denove assassination.

Anzletos anould da asted lo exploin lhat scaterent, and anecher he is

avare of any CIs investigations of Osuald or che assassinasion, parcicularly

any which nay hava reached conclusions different fros the lairen Commission's.

Regardless of what sagleton nou says he nuunt by his consert, an intended

reference to John Kennedz seens as likely as. any other explaition

D...

AViLLASiLITY OF DOCUNENTAY MITERIAL

Harren Cornission Docucenc [CD] 622 purports to be an exici, copy of the

CIA's pre assaisination dossier on Oswald. 'Of the material aredating Osuald's

Octobar 1963 crip co lexico, almost all has been released; aust is infornacion

fron other agencias. À good part of che lexico materiul is still wichheld.

A number of other Commission Documents and internal senicunds deal wich

the ClA's pre- ard post-assassination Investigations, Soce of che wichheld :

CD's would ba very interesting: CoB.,CU 935, a Top Secret CLA demo dealing in

part with

the reaction of the Cuban Intelligence Service to the assassination.

40

Erougt of the CIA material submitted to the Commission his been released to

•provide a basis for che formulatión of appropriately specific questions.

Certainly nost of the sctil wichheld material should be released at this

rine. Hovever, overenphasis on the matecial at the Archives should be avoided.

Erroneous clains are

Frequently made that

many of

the Warren Carmission files

have been locked up for 7S years fron the date of the assassisation. In façt,

there is no such Eixod-vern withholding, All of the withhold noterial is

reviewed every fire years, and in addition is subject to agency and judicial

revlew under the freedon of Information Act when a request is code by any citizen.

Some of the witheeld nuterial night even remain withheld for sore than is years.

In fact, an extraordinary ancunt of investigative material (lazely ran data in

FDI reports) has been released or published. This was done to some degree over

the objertion of the fBI.

It is probable chai che nost sensitive material in gorezazent files on Osuald

never reached the Harren Cornission. I in sure that was the cuse with the fBI

files, only a snall fraccion of which vere given to the Cazzission.

In response to sy freedom of Infurnation det requesis, sre Cla has lola me

that they "re high: in

foror of declassifying everything possidie in

con.:ectio?

wich che rosores of cha lurren Cornission.

The nost corvincinü notive for lis to

MM: 65990-Rocld: 32371478-Page 14

---

## Page 15

104-10196-10027

..

2och

-13-

• 3/24/75

¿n ihis is our fira balior dhat all the informacion on declassiried woulú

recall do to suppose dna conciusions of the lineren Connission and dispel any

possible confusion or suspicion chos the continued classification nay have

raised nal (ahis cotive has been balanced against the protecsion of classified

infornatión and incelligence sousces and nethous.) I expect that chis is a

sincere opinion, at least as is applies to the CiA suterial in tha drchives:

(Ine folloving section examines the indications that the Chi did not coke a

full disclosuse to the Cornission.) Of course, even the currently available

mazerial invalidures many of the commission's conclusions.

Because of chese faces, tre demand for release of the Warren Concission's

• records should be only a part of the danand for full disclosure... do chè very

leist, the ota should be asked ibout files other than CD 692 ia which there is

say reference to Lee Harvey. Osuald or to gerbers of his famils.

III. THE CIA AND THE INVESTIGITION OF THE ISSASSINATION

_POSSIBILITY THAT INFORMICION WAS WITHHELD FROM THE COMYISSION

FALSE CIA SCOTINENT TO THE FOT ON NOVENDER 22, 1963.

On the day of the assassination, an Fil agent fron the Washington field

office interviewed: Birch D. O'Veal of the CIA for the purpose of obtaining "any

informationi in the CIa files on Osvald. According to the fil's repori, he

"learned there is nothing in CIA file (sic] regarding Oswald other than material

Furnished to CIA by the FBl and the Deparinent of Scate .42 That vas certainly

untrue; rost conspicuously wich regard to the irportant CIA-originated macerial

43

about Osuald's trip to Mexico..

The possiublic chas che FBI nisrecorded the CIA statement nust be acknow

ledged. The Bureau's headquarters fill included sona CId-created records, so the

Bureau should have knoun that the CId clain was wrong when they reported it to

the liarren Connission.. Whatever O'Neal's quact statement about the ClA file was,

it seens clear that the CIA did rot want to jenadiately reveal to the fal che

full extent of their coverage of Oswald, ard.

he serious probless raised (e.5-

Dy the photographs of the visicor to the kussia.

Embassy).

The significance of this f3I report is not primarily that material vas

wichheld fron the Fal, since sone of it had been curned over previously and nor

apparentl; vas forwarded quite scon; it is that at last once the CIA made a

false statesent about the extent of their Asiald file.

2. TOPICS OS WHICH WISCLOSUL MY HAVE BEEN LINITEU

(3) Marin: P3:1

The Fil cold

•ine liarier Comission thui their cuse on Lie Harvey Ossild das

NW 65990 Decld:32374478 Page 15

---

## Page 16

104-10196-10027

toco

3/24/75

auburnad to dotivo status in darch 1952 as a resutr of infocration obtaina:

curing on Investigation relating co sis siss tarina, F3l agent Hosty restedied

crise do vas the Fil's practice to interria indigrunts fron Cormunist cousiries

"on a selective Dasis," and that datina anald had been selected. '

The

resules of this for prectice would seen misuaally and properly to be of inseresc

co cha Cli.. However, the CIl file on lee irald does not dive any indication of

CIl interest in Marlos specifically: There is no apparent reference'to any effort

by o= üith the FOl relattrg co Russian iiftants. (The routine transaitcal

•slips for he ful reporás on Lee Osuald do'ree refer to the EUl's case on vasina.)

The ClA should be asked to produce sor secores le has on Marina Osuaid.

The Agency should be asked ifither

Andäicted her ag a posential infossane

socherise, directl or indirectly.

She way well have been known to the Cla

through Russians i ontras, some or thon sad finis, to cla-supposted group and

nighé well have been reportina to the CIsco the activities of the Russiaa

corcurity.

(5) Oswald's contacts with albert Schweiter College

When Oswald Left the U.S. in 1959, be Jad indicated on his passport appli-

cation that he intended co attend Alberi Seeitzer Colleze. This is a scall

Unicarlan-aEfillated school in Switzerland specializing in advanced studies in

philosophy and cha liberal arts.

4S. Oswald dad indeed been

accepted by that school,

despite che apparent absence of the proper ragerences and background.

wher he

• failed to shou up, an investigation was uncastation by the fBi through its Legat

Attache in Paris, perhaps in part at the recess of Oswald"s mother through her

Congressman. "

46 Since the relevant fBl records have nos been made available, I

do not knou whecher. any of chen were sent to che CIA, buz that would have bee

appropriate. It should be determined if thare was any FBI-CIa Liaison on this

matter (and

if not, why not); and, if so, why. thare is no record of it in the

CIA file on Oswald, CD 692.

The CIA, the Fal, and ONI should also sa asked if there was any incelligence

Interest in Schweitzer College, or any dirass or indirece government suppost.

That night explain Oswald's peculiar contaczs with the College. If che CI:

evaluated

this naiter in docunents provided in the Harren Conission, they should

be rode public.

(c). The unidentified non photographed in firico City

(See seccion 11.1. 1 supra.) I an confidana chuc the CIA ultimately did

provide an explanatios of chis "ristake" duise sus enou enough to sarisfy the

Husre Connission. Horever, chure are serog indications that the chi dus co:

candid wich the Commission at first. The tarission first learned duous the

NW

5990 Docld:32374478 Page 16

---

## Page 17

104-10196-10027

9

proto because i: nod been shown io druorier Osroid choctly after the disass-

190=02..

torever, do lase ds dacch it the Connission lus anding tro did aso.:

openin's activities in dexico ard abour the plotograph apparently nichoi kroding

this these cutters vesa rulaced."y

the old hod apparently not yes replied to

a lotter which hul Saen

sene a norid previously asiing for an explanation of the

photograph.

3.

CIA ASSENTIONS ÓE FULL DISCLOSURE

CIa Directos doCone and Veputy Director lelas testified that the substance

of all relevant pre-assassination informacion had been supplied to the Connission. 43

co 692 uas described li a covering reso as "uni exact reproduccion os the agency"s

otricial dossier on Lee Harvey Oswald, " Dut it included only a stataty of sose ol

che pre-assassination internal ClA pessoges doout Osuald. 49

A Comaissica staff

neaber went to Langley and say a consurecited paincout on Osuald, which he

described as including no document ubich the Cormission had not been given in full.

er in paraphrase.

The CIA should be asked to list (and, if possible, to ruleuse) all records

not in the "official dossier" which easiered Oswald. Specifically, since some

records had Oswald's niddle name asi

Tients" the extent of their search involving

varlant names should be exanined.

B. KEY PERSONS IN THE CIA - WARKEN CONSISSION INVESTICATION

Raymond Pocca, uho recently resigaed from the Counterintelligence Division,

was the CIA's liaison with the Warren Cortission. Arthur Dooley,

who recired in

1973, was apparently one of the CIA sen cost involved in the investigation.

ccording to a Cornission reco, kichard Helms was one of the cuo sea at a

neeting on March 12, 1954 who would have known. lE Oswald had been a Cla infornant.5

Manlyne name of the second men has been icheld, lie should ba identified one toch

should be questioned.

It might be particularly usaful to asts the following people from the Warren

•Commission staff about che issues raised in this eno, and abous the degree of

CIA cooperation wich the Connission.

H. David Slawson, nou at ¿he U.S.C. La: School, was the junior layer uno

apparently had the nost extensive deslings wich the CIA. His area of investi-

gation was Oskald's foreien astivicies. The deu Yock Tiggs has reported that re

reconely said chai the investigation should be respered.

Willian I. Colonan, no: Secreian of Iransportution, was the senior lasyer

in the sase area.

wesley J. Lieseler, nois with the didoral governsent in Hashingion, bus

reportedly involicy in cho inseccigaiun of the unidenrilie nea poaco, and ta:

•. NW-65990_Docld:32374478_Page_17

---

## Page 18

104-10196-10027

89CN

• 3/24/75

^ M 1010150000000

ion fron the ClA for chola. iv

Saruel d. Seeen, nor with Wilmer dualer and Fickering in liasmingion,

examined the Cly evaluacion os Osuaid, particularly tras tire vicupoint of

Iloison wich the secres Sepvice and procedures for. Presidential procectior:

re das also involved with investigatiro the allegutións chai Oscald vas an

ESI or Cia inforuane.

THE CIL'S ON INTESTICATION OF THE ASSASSINATION

CIA CAPABILLEY ECZ MY INDEPENDENT INTEESGIEION

The Cid, of course, openly worked with chet

varren Commission In areas

Involving foretgn accivitles. In addition, the agency was given the ability co

assass much of the evidence in other areas. de thé Condission's request, che

§31 sent che CIA not only material with foreiga aspects, but aíso reports on

possible subversive activitles by Osuald in iãe U.S.¡ the EnI also furnarded to

the CIA all the major investigative reposes ioning out of the Dallas office.

The Secret Service as also asked to send the Cly a nuades of les repores,

including all intervieus of ilarina Oswald. 55

a occasion during the lifour the coanision, the ClA accively susteste

smr:

further investigation.. For

example, one Agency moro said it nas of considérable

porcance to investigate

the report that aswald had accepted suicide in Russis

JAd that 16 necessasy his body should de extured to sée if he really did have a

scar on his wrist.

The Harren Connission, conscrained by (anorg ocher chiros) the need to maié

a public report wichin a reasonable time, did sot even adequately pursue ail

che important leads in the material the FBI die submic. The CIA was not'so

constrained.

2.

USKMOUN CIA CONCLUSIONS

The CIA interest in the assassination cascinued after the Warren Cornission

finished its work. For example, nore than ina ranchs aîter the liarren depose

care out, the CId asked for a copy.

of the Zaprudes film of the shooting. decor!-

Ing to the rot, lt was requested "for trinis preposes 5 resuably chis us

means. for training enoreanalysts.

The FBI - Cornission study of this file was superficia?. Nost notably, cha

siarren keport iailed to mention, such less erplala, the fact that dennedy las

dilven forcifully backwarus by the farol sho: fanich, iccondira ca

the Carissios,

cant frois behirit hia), Contrary en exportagiors, a turgei dons saratices rocol?

this explanation. In any case, the agento siovis sevost that use ic nade of, and

NW 65990 Docld:32374478 Page 18

---

## Page 19

104-10196-10027

3/24/73

59

Musicia 12

The Popcoder Cila.

in boy 19be too theo had found no ericaces cousing

chos to conáludo thus ti

had seen a coaspiracy, nt that the cose would never

se considered, closin

in: Cro shouli be asted to produce chile interaal repores

on che assassinattar parciculurly any which reached conclustons or postdated

ins l'arren Report.

3.

CIA ICTIVITICS RELATSO TO CRITICS CE THE LAUREN REJORT

It bould be peclec.ly proper it the CIA has inve

•nigutco charues Mady uy che

catales alleging foreton levolverent in the assassination. Such Investigative

reposis should be rada public.

crA coveraig de. the selites nay have included tre dissemization of false

reports to deal alicacion away. fron serious questions which involved che Agency.

One= researchers. uno have-been note active in the investigation than me could

no douse provide decalls about sore of the suspiciou: incidents ind persons.

Jia Garrison charged that the Cl kas irvolved

n the assassination and also

hirdered his investigarion.

Since the fornér charge

has received wide accention,

despice Garrison's lack of substanciacing evidence,

the CId slould be asked to

explain des lines with any of che principals in the gutrison nutter. This should

include suspects, peripheral figures associated wich then, investigators, and

sure of the witnesses and their actogneys; CIA conneccions with David Ferrie and.

Cuy banister shouls be given special actention. 6. It it ls true, as Vletor

Marchetti has reportedly, said, that Clay Shau had been a Cli contact in connection

with his forelga trade activicles and the CIA was concerned about icepina that

Lace sick that dizhe explain sone of the strong opposition to Cacrison Calthough

it would not add to Garrison's flinsy case that Shaw conspired to kill Kernedy).

The extent of CId efforts to disseninate derogatory informacion about che

critics should be exanined. The Agency did give the Warren Commission a 1937

Gestapo nero on Jogchin Joesten, the author of one of the first cricical books

o Ine assassinaiion.

Infornation chat Joesten had been a marber of the Guinar

CorTunisi Party,

asen fron the same mono, lias later introduced into the Congress-

jonal Record in a report (allegesly trition by the ClA) which chalmed that his

criticis of end warzen deport wus part of a "Conunist bloc defamition carpalen. "63

The Agency should

elso be aslied if it intercopted the nail of, or otherwise

interfered with

any ni the critics of the barren Keport,

in the Uniced States

or'abroad.

tard

this.

1wт.

Lat Sae

NW 65990 Docld:32374478 Page 19,*

---

## Page 20

104-10196-10027

ratA

-15-

3/ 24/85

1!.

.

SCHERY 05 TOS FACTSAL 3005 10R 18 1710107

The considerable antiacion recently diorit to the possibility of a cornectio::

gaineen the CIA dad tao janedy assassinuing hus been lurcely based on tio

vasy provocutive and undoudredly significant facis. the first is that tha CI

cried to hill fidol Cascio, working on occasioa ihrough the Mafia. This Cle

ploi sias reporiedli

cho basis for feses that Casiro bud retaliated against

Kennedy. The second is one of the najor unresolved questions of lalergate: E.

Howard liund's appatently sensatlonal heowlrise abous "the lihole Bäy of Pigs

?

ching which led president dixoi to cut off the investigation. Since the basie

facts of the bay of pizs ate hurdly secrot, and Hunt has alhitted proposing

the assassination f Castro in connection wich that operation, it is reasonable

¿o speculate that "che whole Day of Piss ching" sas a reference to knouledze

of such a plot or les consequences, of to the relatid Howard Hughas - CIA I&nis.

These mutters undoubtedly should be given rajor attention by those who are

no: investigating the Cid. I would like to suggest that they should be studied

with thu perspective provided by a third fuci: a definite line becueen

..a nan

representing himself às "Luon. Osuald" (perhaps Lee Harvey Oswald himself) and

pie of the assassinailor attenpes against Castro.:

B:

: 1.

LICK BETEEN COSTALD ANO A PLOT TO NILL CASTHO

SUMAIRY OF THE SILVIN ONIO INCIUENT

An episode which caussu the Warren Commission staff a great deal of concern

was reported by Sylvia Odio, à Cuban active in the anti-Castro novenent. she

identified Lee Harvey Oswald as one of three men who had visited lier home in

Dallas

about tua moniths before the assussination. Odio said that this man was

introduced to her as "Leon Oswald" and lias deseribed as an American ex-Marine

- "creat, kind of nuts" - who thougtic that President kennedy should have been

shos after the bay of Pigs "because. he las the one who vas holding the freedon

of Cuba. "56

The ren thenselves linked atte.pus against Kennedy and Castro,

saying that lcon Oswald "Coulú do anything like getting underground in Cuba,

like killing Castro "65 These non said they wese seeking Odio's help in sheir

anti-Custro activiries and persuasively claimed co be friends of her father,

uno vas imurisoned in Cuba. Quio's. veracity was strengthened by the way hor

on yeshier Cape felly cheeray orde one with is

this incidont is importune inciner or not the roal Osuald lins. involved.

in icterps in inautanabes Ruuld in such a situacion would escublish a conspirasy

NW 65990 Docld:323

---

## Page 21

104-10196-10027

strictly are, -

-1y-

31.24175

a staff recogniaca

• ire significaned of Calo's

story. David Starson called trie

he most signif-

Lean: Wieness linking Usuald to anti-Custro Cubis "E"s

resisdent Cuunsul Burt

Griftin

said that the most reasonable situations undee which asuald night

Pave had conspirators

... derive.

fron his ufforts to infidaras /the anti-Castro

Cubans and to obtain a visa so Cuba"; he soid chat the Macren leport "should

explore it length the illezations ride by Sylvia odio. "" Just cen days before

the Horren Report came out, besley Lebeler urote than "udio nay well ba right"

and. thac "the Commission uill look bad it le turns out she is."70.

The Comission's Investication never really. Zot beyond a search (reasonably

successfull for evidence that Osuald himself as not one of odio's visitors.

As the last minute, three anti-Castro activists, were tentatively identified as

she visitors, but loter Incerviers seein to have invalidates that hypothests.

COSTECTION BETIEN ODIO AND AN ATTENT TO KILL CASTRO

sylvia Odio's father, with whon her visitors clained to da veil acquainted,

was generally described as a political prisoner."?2 the fact is chat he uas

arrested by the Cuban government because of his involvement in an attenor to

All Castro.. The senior odios had harbored one of the assassins after this

estgerpe on castro falled.;

These façes are established by a combination of investigative reports

submitted. to the barren Commission

and press reports which appeared before the

Kennedy assassination.

I an not mentloning the name of the min acrestéd with

etz: odio in this mero, bécause I think an investigation should be conducted

before

this material is made public. (I do not know anythiny ocher chan what

is in public sources.

73,

Bécause this assassination attempt occured reasonably close in tine to the

Bay of Pigs, it is reasonable to suspect chu cha ClA Mas directly involved in

15. In any case, the CId must have learned the details of the ploc, lE only

after it happened. It is clearly important that igency records and witnesses

be probedi to learn as much as possible about this lina becueen the kennedy

•assassination und on action of the kind the ClA was nouncire against Castro.

C.

PRESS REYONIS INTENPRECING GIA ACTIONS AGALAST CASTLO

Alleged CIA attempes to kill forcign leaders, notably Castro, have received

a Great deal of attention lately. l the latest reports aire explicit what was

strongly suggested earlier: that the fublication of the Bocies) about possible

retaliation by Cagoro as in itself on oct with political cignificance and

consequencos, Gives the infornation in the previous seciion, it is igortunt

?

NW 65990 Dosld:32374478 Page Z1m

---

## Page 22

104-10196-10027

-20-

3/2÷0/75

so planine chose repores mile beeping in mind the

ossibility thut the Cid

rid de Ancescoe, B9 digesting detention fron this Particulus link between its

activitios and tho dennedy case.

Jacio Anderson reported in 1968 that "Presluent johnsón is sitting on a

politicai H-bond - an unconflamed repose chat Senator lobert deanedy nay have.

an assassination ploc which then possibly backfired against his late

anderson sald that a ploc against Castrulyas considered while

Posert, derinady was "riding hetion che Agency" afcer the Bay of Pips.

"'"Insiders.

•tols inderson chat for che plot co "reach the high level lt did," It must have

been cakes up vich kencedy, one source "insisted chat Robert Kennedy played

key role in the planning. inderson also cited John lengedy's disillusionent

nich the cla, and a report chäe Cascro "with characteristic fury" launched a.

couscorpion; he said that thu fut told President Johnson that Cuban leadees had

heave for dearedy's deach.?6

anderson suggested that Robert kennedyy "morose"

Deravior after the assassination might have been due to the "cerrible chought

that he had helped put into nacion forces that indirectly may have brought about.

•nis: brother's martyrdon."

In 1971, inderson expanded his story, reporting that there were six CiA

attempes to kill Castro,

occuring between durch 1961 and March 1963

All six

were reportedly castied out through John hoselll, a man with strong links to

organized crice:" These colunns repeated the suggestion that the plots night

have backfired against Kennedy when Castro learned of chem.

The Anderson coluns did not go into the possibility - rather, tha proba-

bility - ¿hat cheré were ocher CIA attempts against Castro..

lor did they

raise the possibility that a plot had backfired when the Kennedys or the CIA

tried to call it off, and the resentful cunnen. turned against the Unired States.

There is at lease as much political logic to this hypothesis as to the alternate

version. Ic is drown chat some anci-Castro Cubans resented President Kennedy's

Tack of support in 1952-63, Espified by the vell publicized raid on an anti-castro

training cacp near dew Orleans in lugust 19638 and by the reported withdraual

of support for a second invusion around the tine of the Missile Crisis.

8L IF.

Castro had docided so recaliate gainst dennedy, ic is most unlikely that he

would have used Ostalde those pro Castro accivicies lure a metter of record in

CIt and Fal files, and linown lo che public (because, of his radio appearances) and

•to the anti-castro Cuban comunity, Surely the Cuban governcert had agencs in

che U.S. with solid anti-castro covers.

Ie to reasonable to dosina chus the originn deerson repose was based on

inforturior/givento his ty the lla. this caiclusion is sepported not only sy

NW 65990 Docld:32374478-Page 22

---

## Page 23

104-10196-10027

-21-

3/26/15

mis citations of "to

ilsials as sources, but by information provided to

Bounty supresting that anderson thoughr the story.

had yuen civen to him carn the approval of che birector of the Cla. Mroase

she source, I can orily sauculace aboui his incencious. There may have been

a desire to affeci tha strained relationship betueen President Johnson ind

Robertakennedy, or chees may have been reasons related to kennady's concinuing

passive endorsenent of the Warren Report in the face of strong public concern

about the

assassination. Even if the only crue part of che 1967 report was that

ace elements in the b.5. Covernaent had planned to kill Castro, 1c mäy have

been leaked for the surpose of persuading lobert kennely co continue his silence

Bouc his brother's dsath.. It should be noted chat the CIA has apparently

pas chosen co coe intaratan abour the anti-Castro assassintion acreatinhich

Is linsed to the Odfailacidens

•Ic has just recently: been revealed that Robert kennedy was "outraged"" by

the 1967 Anderson

colues.

He told two of his assistants that he had stopped,

not started, the plot against Castro.82 (Ic appears that he was referring to

an

attempt

using che Mallo, présunably Poselli.) One neus repote indicated that

one of che kennedy aldes fiad erphasized that Robert Kennedy-Izagned of the

ClA-Nafia link before his brother becane President, thus implying that Castro

could

not have retallated against the kennedys because of it.

Obviously the

extent. and chronology of all cia atrempts agalrist Castro nust be cleared up.

• ..

1.:

POSSIBLE RELEVANT YIONLEDGE OUTSIDE THE CIA

BASIS FOR E. HONED HUNT'S BLACKWIL OF PRESIDENT NIXON

As many observers have noticed, President, Nixon's reactions to Hunt's

demands for money seem to be based on a fear that he would divulge information.

on something even more damaging than Vatergate... On June 23, 1972, Mixon told

Maldeman to have the Cia cut oft the fBI investigation on the grounds chat it

mighe open up "the whole Bay of Pies ching." That was presumably related

to the long-tine CIa links of Hunt and sone of the men on his tean.

of course, many details of the CIl's involvanent in the day of Pigs have

been knoun for years. lihether or not Nixon's fear in that area vas geruine,

he must have had some. reason to bulieve that the CId and the Fil would have.

some idea of what he as referrina do. JE is quite plausible that "che thole

Hay of Pigs thing" was a euphenis for CId incussivation atterpes asains,

Costro which hod grown out of the lay of Pius opedation. It secas essential

In find ous what all of the involved parties -niion, baldesan, lelas, and the

Fü! - thought (or so: think) chis meant.

- NVX.65990 Rocld:32374478 Page 23.

---

## Page 24

104-10196-10027

- 22-

3/24/85

•FLORAND ASSISSTITION ATTESTS ACAINST CASTRO

aano closa do bring la the mitér of assassination aticipes against

Casio in his boot.

dia said indi he had proposed such

an attempt in connaccion

wity his toes on she day of Pigs. He Icconnended, evidently in tricing, that

• Cast=o be killed before on at the tine of the invasion. Hunt was told that his

recopandasion was "in the dands of a special croup." Peshaps choosing his

suals to conceal or hina as thai ho knew, rather chun to reveal it, he urote:

so far as l have been aule to deceraine no coherant plan tas ever developed

wissia Cla co assassinace Casiro, though it was the heart's desire of cany

exite srouss. "84

• 3.

SUITE HOUSE CONCERY

In the process of unraveling the stories about the CIA atterpes against

¿'Cistto, it-night be holpiul co explain the lnice llouse reaction to the 1971

inderson colurns. In the Senate latergate Connittce hearings, where this was

couched on, there is soge indication that these columns touched off'a ninor

flust of activity.

since the purpose of the Watergate break-in has never

deen publicly clarified, and there has been much speculation that Larry O'Brien

¿rouledge of Howard Hughes' activities was somehow involved, it may be relevant

chat anderson did specify that the cla had recruited Roselll through Robert

Naheu, a top lughes aida. 86

B. THE WAAREN CONMISSION

The CIA apparently never volunteered to the Warren Commission any infor

nation about the Odio fanily lini to an assassination attempt against Castro.

That link should have been established

the first tine the CIA rin the name of

Sylvia Odio through chair files. If the link was not noticed within the

governent earlier, it day de relevant that shortly after the l97l anderson

colucas appeared I sent hia the details in my possession, in che hope that he

would pursue the matier; he evenzually decided not to, but he nay well have

checked out some of the decails with his CIA contacts.

• It is reasonable to assuda chat by now the Cl has done in internal

investigation of possible agercy links to the Odio visitors. uny such report,

sinather or not it was given to ihe Warren Connission, should be nace public.

E. UNSASHERED QUESTIONS IN THIS AREA

es indicated above, there are many aspecis of the CIl's actions against

Castro which slould be exanined. "Öne of the many possible sources is Vicior

israhatti, baosa tros conisirs a icornoie commenting on these Cil activitios,

and noting a publighes repost chus fresident Johnson. thought chat kennedy lad

NW 65990 Docld:32374478 Page 24

---

## Page 25

104-10196-10027

NETT

Лемн

- 23-

3/24875

seen silled in recallation. The relaced section of the tere lus deletel bi

the Cli befose publicacioni it should be rade public nos.

Various sources should de astied aboui the indications that the Cid lealed

infordacion alous che Roselli plots to backdadariene the observations of

Rosaet lennedy's aides peter Edelnan and adam valinsky should be nade part of

the fornal public record.

There are many aspects of the Ollo natter which should be investigated.

Many people named in relevant documents were not choroughly questioned by the

FBi. at che warren Cornission. first, the activicies of the thrée men sho the

Horten Report suggested sere Odlo's visitors should de closely examiriad; they

should be asked to provide any relevant information.

One of chese men, Loran Holl, cace to the attencion of the ful on the day

after the assassination, when it was reported that he had retrieved a pawned

rifle; presunably the Fal's source suspected Hall of complicity, in the deach

of jennedy. It is not cleat thy cha fBI then dropped the matter quickly and

reported it to the warren Comnission inadequately and only after a long delay.

A friend of Sylvia odio insisted that she had cold her chat anti-Castro

Cubaas in New. Orleans had warned some Dallas Cubans before the assassination

that Oswald was thought co be a double agent trying to infiltrate anti-castro

groups; Odio emphatically denied having said this. 88•

Some of the New Orleans

Cubans who had encountered Oswald, including Odio's uncle, were associated

with the CId-sponsored Cuban kevolutionary Council.

The most important new topic for investigation is the atterpt to kill

Castro which ded to the arrest of Sylvia Odio's father. The degree of cIA.

• sponsorship or knowledge of it must be decermined.

The whole stors of links betweed

• Cuban acrivities (pro- ard anti-Castro),

Oswald, band the assassinacion is a

conplicated one. The most significant

evidence might emerge from some of the clues which vere too complex to attract

the attention of the liarren Coanission. The Odio incident and its ramifications

(sone of which were not known to cl

le Comission can properly be explored

wichout a forral recognition of the overall inadequacies of the Commission's

sork. Hopefully some members of the Connission staff will be silling to adnit

that

their work was ai least incomplete, and will endorse a reopening of the

cruite invastigation.

Particularly relevant here

re tuo examplus of leads shich vere, noi obvious

but which should huve been checked out by the Conmission (aid sliould; be checkeil

out nos). The fiest sioey involves a luuyer fronte firm which in nic-1963

defended Chico syrdicuse figure Sai Gicand igninst ful Macusscent, ¡ CGiancans

it-lie

jor

still

witt,

- NW 65990 Docld:32374478 Page 25

---

## Page 26

104-10196-10027

.-24-

3/21175

nis been nated us a Madia leader uho nay hove aided the Cl. in saying against

cesiro.:

8) da che day after che assassination, this lanyar sent a celcarais

coesuald aftering his servicestif Osualu hod rot been able to ostain counsel.

I an convinary that this gesture was made on proper civil-libertarian grcunds,

¡: respoase to che apparent violation of Osrald's riglits la the absence of an

sitorrey.. The lai fion involved had a good reputation for civil rights soris.

This lunges stould be siven the chance to answet for the record any suspicions

chat siste te raised by his firm's prior representationi of Glancano.

Ta sepad scory gishe turn out to be a new and valuable clue to the

kancis, purguses, and organizational links of the men who visited Sylvia

oaloo: Faere sos an aati-Castro Cuban in ballas who apparently resembled Oswald

so zuch that a gas státion operitor uno sau hia a fey days before the assass-

ination laze=.cold che FBI that he choughe he had seen Oswald. The FDl was

cold by an informane chat this man was "violencly", anti-kennedy; he denied chat.

se mas the president of the Dallas branch of the anti-Castro organization which

sas headou sy one of che principals in the attenpt on Castro's life which had

Ted co che arrest'of Odio's parents. The Dallas group held meetings at 3126

Hollandale (Street]; the Warren Connission recelved but did not resolve an

allegation reported

to a Dalias Deputy Sherlif that Oswald had attended maatings

of a Cuban group at 3123 Harlendale. *90.

This man

is noned in several Warren

Casuission records, but as far as I know the staff never cook note, of che

apparent resendlance to Oswald, and never checked out the possibility that he

had been the "Leon Oswald" who visited Sylvia odio or that he had otherwise

been involved in a conspiricy.

the duty de

NIV 65990 Docld:32374478 Page 26

---

## Page 27

104-10196-10027

10=1

- 23-

POSTSCRIPT: WAS COMESOTOS STAFE SPECTION OUT THE COLO TACIOSIT

mótor this reno mas delecon, l received tron the intional itchives a

Tonnely withhold insernal Commission reno in thich the Olio incident is

discussed ai sara length. Inis undate nono was uritten by lillian Coleron

•and Duvid Slinson at roughly the pilipoint of che investigation, to present

to the Comission raiders the outdence perisining to foreign involvement in

the assassinatioa... Ine discuasion of the Olio incident reflocts the wind of

reasónable speculation and intelligent critical analysis which is so

consalcuously sissing iron post of the final report:

This analysis sounds as ll it was uritten by one of che cöre knowledgeable

ericies as the marren Report.

nicer summatising the knoin faces in the odio

•case, Colenan al stauson urotei

"The eviderce here could lead to an anti-Castro Cubaa involvement:

in the assassication on sore sori of basis as this: Oswald could have

becore kroin to the Cubans as being strongly pro-Castro: He nade no

secret of his sympashies, and

so the sati-Castro Cubans rust have realized

that the lai-enforcesent authoricies vere also anáre of Oswald's feelings

•and that cherafore, it he sot into crouble, the public would also

Icara of thar.

The anti-Cuban [sic] sroup may even have believed the Elction

Oswald cried so create that hetad orgunized sore sort of large active

Fair Play Sor Cuba group in lew Orlians.

Second, soneone in the anti-

Castro organizacion night have been keen enough

to sense chat Oswald had.

a penchand fo= violence that.

might easily de aroused.. This was evident,

for exacole, reen he luughed at the Cubans and told chen it lould be eusy

to kill fernaur after the Bay of Pigs.

On these facts, "it is possible that

some sort of deception vas used to encourage Oswald to kill the President

when ha

case. to Uallas.' Perhaps "double agents" were even

used to persuade

Oswald that pro-castro Cubans would help in the assassination or in che

get-away aftentiaris.

The notive on this would of course de the ex-

pectacion that after the President was killed Oswald would be caught or

àt leasi his identity ascertained, the law enforcement auchorities and.

the public would then blame che

assissination or the Castro government,

and the call for it's

forceful overchrow hould be irresiscable.

Bay of Pigs Invusion' would begin, chis time, hopefully, co end successfully.

The neno's neva sentence calls for the comment that speculacion which

seened "wild" eleren jours ago may not be so wild today:

The faragoing is probably only a wild speculation, but the

facts that de ulready know are certainly sufficient to varront addicional

investigutio.."

The Consissia:'s additional investigation was not adequate, and facts linoun

no: but nos knowa to Colenan and Slauson in 1964 make addicional investigation

even more necessary.

..

-NW 65990 Docld:32374478 Page 27

---

## Page 28

104-10196-10027

Footnotes -3-

3/24/15

Far a canceal discussion, soe la bilal and dougher, "accessories

¿fres sho fogi,"

2. 376-357.

.55. cia cuto's ruraciot, see dog, Meagher (nute 64), p: 3S0.

•67.: Tiere vero oster inclionis there

soreone might have been impersonating

David Stauson has

that "cho interposition of

if chat

suppetoo, is a political act." (liet. 52) see also p. 7 supra.

63.

tubere and Gridiin cozo of April 7, 19jú to Rankin.

69: Cristin meso où dugust 20, 1954 to Willons.

,70.

Liedeter cero of Sepceaber 14, 1964 to Willens.

71.

regaiter (note Sa), P. 397; compare IR 324 and CD iSS3.

72

i0-327.

I mill de glid to send this macerial to serious investigutors. Coples have.

alreiar deen given to

several researchers.

Ts., iT Narch 10,1975, p. 1.

75.. Dien Pearsor culuna of March 3, 1967 in (e•g:) the S.F. Chronicle..

ipparently.

chis columa did not appear in the Hashinston lost excope for a very shore

version on Narca ?, 1907.

76:

This may be a refererce co CD 1359, a still-withheld Top Secret letter of

6/17/âi froa soover so lanisin, re statemenos by Cascro on the assassination.

77,

the first to atreapts involved poison capsules, and the other four involved

rease, wich rifles ard explosives uha were taken to Cuba by Roselli.

79.

79.

Jaci anderson coluns of Jan. 19,. Jan, 19, and Feb. 23, 1971.

For other attespis against Castro, see Saulo, Esquire, Eeb, 74, p. 90-91,

ard Scott, Razaaris, dov. 174, p. 14-15, 54.

80.

New Orleans Tines-Picayune, August 1, 1953, p. 7

8T.

Еоб-, ПУТ, 4/19/53, р. 14; 4/21/63, р. 26; 5/1/63

p. ll.

82.

A2T, Mar. 10, 1975, p..l.

83•

This was a national IV network neus report; che text is not available to me now.

84.

dura, 'Give Us This Day," p. 39-39.

85:

Sendie Watergate Connircee Hearings, pp.. 9723, 2749-55.

86. Andersoa coluss, Jan. 18, 1971 (S.F. Chronicle, p. 39).

87. Narcletti & Marks (raf. 63), p. 290 (paperback edition).

89. CD 1535, p. 179; Gt: 3147, p. 5.

AT, dar. 10, 1995, p. 1.

90. 191534.

NW 65990 Docld:32374478_Page 28

---

## Page 29

104-10196-10027

3P:4173

Footnoits

loch

27. 1: 391-3; also CO lOgic, section IN.

23.

CD 1000. Some passages are still withhold.

27.

Tice, Fes. 10, 1975, p. 10: "The Vantege Point," p. 26-7 (papersoss rilition);

Atlantic, July 1973, p. 39.

30.

Petee Dale Scote, Harpares, dov, 1973, p. 13.

31.

CU 87, S$ 559; CU 235; CU 609, p.

3; CU 1125-XIII-103; Hises loss,

"Invisible Governieri," p. 208 (paperback edicion).

32.

9i1235-6; CU SS5, p.. 7ó.

• 33.

çu S55, p. 76.

34.

See, e.s., "'hitewasti 11" by Harold Helsders, Ch. 6; CD 950.

35.

18H795-0.

36. CE 1961; Rankin letter of 5/19/64 to Folson.

37.

CU 33, pp.. 1-2.

• 38..

NYT Dec. 25, 1974, p. l.

39.

E.G., CU 692(6).

•40.: Lists of withhelil Co's and CIN CD's are available fron the author.

: 41.

Leicèr of Dec. 14, 1971, Eron L... White to thé author.

4?.'

CD 49, p. 23.

43.

See p.

7 supra.

44.

441441

?

45.

UR

699.

•

4б.

1H213; CD 120, p. 4-5; CL 834, Items i3, I5-18, 20.

47..

Meno of 3/12/84, Slauson to the files, p. 7 (also pi 8); Colenan naro of 3/26/64.

48.

5H1L22.

49: Slauson nero of 3/12/64, p. 8.

50. Stern nemo of 3/27/64 to Hankin; 5H122.

51.

Slauson nero of 3/12/64, p. 8:

2 recan, "Traques, R2. 99-99 Chard covet edicions.

NYT, Feb. 23, 1975, p: 32.

Sá. Rankin letter to Hoover, 1/31/64; Hoover letter to Barkia, Feb. 5, 196s.

SS. Rankin lotters to J. Bouley (USSS), Jan. 3l and Feb. 7, 1903.

57. Hoover letter to Bankin, Feb. 4, 190% (ueisbere, "Photostaphic Micerosh, " p. 143.)

59. This has been confirmed hy an experiment I helped another investigator perforn.

59, liy requast for this infornation under the Freedon of Inforcation ice is pending.

60: 5:1123-4.

61. Sce, for examplo, dia Squires article in the Chicago Trilina, 3/15/75, p. 1.

62. Cu 1502, still ichneld.

03.

Cong. dec. 0123/65, p. 25393; ilorchetti a Moolis, "Tho Chi and the Cule of

Intellignace, " p. 319 (ruperlick dicio?).

-NV 65890-Recld:32374478 Pagero

---

## Page 30

104-10196-10027

fos:

foutrodes

•. 3/29/73

This Falo: documone sups thas luby dos "pocfocairo intornation lunations"

For Mizon and H0i6

ia 1947.

In fuet, dui did try to contact the koêüsver

Caine Coxicoco in thai jear, possibly to ace as an informoat; thai dos

supprossed by thè iji and soc explored by die lirren commission.

2.

3.

siew Yoris Times (hereinufter "syr"), Eeb. 3, 1275, p. 14.

•CE (loco, jarren Connission Exhibic] 821 (171700 [i.e., Ilearings sefore

the Presidini's Conission on the assassinacion of President lennedy,

Vol. 17, page 7C0}).

4.

5.

CE 83:; quescion ll (17H789-790).

Mit Jan. 16, do7s, p. 3i. In 1960 the CIA Intercepted a letter sene to che

Soviet Union by Bella dozug in connection wich her legul work in an estace

case, (:YT, darch 8, 1975, p. 11)

6..

part as: Varren Comission Document fin che Macional Archives ] 6920

(See section II-D' infra.)

?.-

¡That 1s, the file entitled "Funds Transmicted to Residents.of.Russia," as

distinguished from the file entitled 'Oskald.".

8.

9..

CU 692, part, (a), iren 4.

13 [ire., Repore of the president's connission on che Assassination of

President Kennedy] 326;

10. ' CD 692, part (a), icent, pp. 1-2.

. 12.

1.72. 408; see also liß 290.

12."

See, for example, a meno to the files from General Counsel J. Lee Kankin,

undated but

approximately January.24-21, 1904, encicled "Aurors that Oswald

an undercover egent.". "The reporied CId informant number, 110669, wàs

apparently not checked out." for che Commisgion's reactión lo these rumors,

Wunicewash IV - JEK Assassination Transcript," written and published by

Harold Weisberg.

13.

14.

NR 325-7-

Hashington Post, Nov. 22, 1974, P. 3; Cornission executive session transeriat

for Jan. 27, 1964, p. 153-4 (reprinted in Weisberg boois, note 12)..

"15.. The CIA also denied having interviewed Oswald in iloscou.

Sce CD 528.

16. The other defector was Robert Edward Webster, See NiT, 5/25/62, p. 5.

17.

IR 713; Peter Wale Scott, Ramparts, Novenber 1973, p. 17.

IS.

NH 700, but compäre Sil330-343 and CE 92.

19. Milton Kaack, and Warren C. Debrueys. Compare CE 825 with CE 826 and CD 692(a)4.

20. CE: 835 (171316).

21.

See the article by fensterald and O'Toole in the new York review, April 3,

1975, and the Hurten Coinission records cited therein.

22. CD 108412, PP. 4-5.

•23..

Cu 10340, pp. 5-5; also see draft neno of apoll l, 1964, by Coleran and

Slalison, p. 3.

24.

Tad Sasic, "Compulsive Spy," p. 96-97.

25. HXf 80s. 8, 1975, p. 1l.

zuo Sons are presenly in paro (e) us de, 692, dor example.

NW 65990 Dockl:32374478 Page 30,

---

