# DOCID-32176688

## Page 1

Date: 07/27/94

Page: 1

JEK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER

:

124-10186-10061

RECORDS SERIES :

BH

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 66-2204-1 THRU 15

--

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR

:

FROM:

TITLE

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

55994 Date: 11-01-2021

DATE: 00/00/00

PAGES

SUBJECTS :

NAR

DOCUMENT TYPE

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS

CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

:

:

:

• OPENING CRITERIA :

INDEFINITE

U

P

NOT ASSASSINATION RELATED

07/27/94

COMMENTS :

.?

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NW 65994 Docld:32176688 Page 1

---

## Page 2

Date: August 2, 2021

From: National Archives and Records Administration

Subject: Reconstructed FBI File BH 66-2204, Serials 1-15

To: The File

This memorandum briefly summarizes the status of missing original Federal Bureau of

Investigation (FBI) case files or portions of case files in the President John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection (JFK Collection) and documents the National Archives and

Records Administration's (NARA) efforts to reconstruct these records, where possible; from

duplicate copies of documents located in other FBI files.

As the JFK Collection was first compiled and reviewed in the 1990s, the Assassination Records

Review Board and the FBI designated some records as "not believed relevant" (NBR) or "not

assassination related" (NAR). The FBI retained custody of the NBR/NAR records and

postponed their transfer to NARA until a later date. Every document or group of documents

("serials"), however, received an indexed Record Identification Form (RIF) and FBI inventory

sheet for insertion into the JFK Collection.

-* *

After an extensive search, neither the FBI nor the National Archives could locate a small

number of NAR documents or case files.

This compilation represents NARA's efforts to reconstruct the original file or portions of the file,

as completely as possible, with duplicate copies of documents located in the FBI field office and

headquarters files within the JFK Collection. Each reconstructed file or compilation contains a

Record Identification Form, an explanatory cover memo, existing administrative documents

available within the JFK Collection, and copies of identified duplicate documents. The table

below summarizes the status of FBI file BH 66-2204, Serials/1-15.

RIF Number

FBI File

Number

124-10186-10061

BH 66-2204

List of Serials

From Inventory

Sheet

1-15

List of Identified

Serials at NARA

1-4, 6-13, 15

Reconstructed

Status (None,

Partial,

Complete)

Partial

NW 65994 Docld:32176688 Page 2

---

## Page 3

FEDERAL BURBAU OF INVESTIGATION

POSTPONBHENT INFORHATION SHEET (JFK MATERIALS)

5/

_Page (s) withheld entirely at this location in the file.

One or more of the following statements, where indicated,

explain this deletion (these deletions).

[] Deletions were made pursuant to the postponement

rationale indicated below with no segregable material

available

for disclosure.

All references relate to

section 6 of the "president John F. Kennedy Assassination

Records Collection Act of

1992."

[1 Subsection lA (intelligence agent's identity)

(] Subsection 1B (intelligence source or method)

[]

Subsection 1C (other matter relating to miiitary

defense, intelligence operations or

the conduct of foreign relations)

[] Subsection 2 (living person who provided

confidential information)

(] Subsection 3 (unwarranted invasion of privacy)

Subsection 4 (cooperating individual or foreign

government, currently requiring

protection)

[]

Subsection 5

security or protective procedure,

currently or expected to be utilized).

Information pertained to a matter unrelated to the JFK

Assassination investigation.

[]

For your information:.

The following number is to be used for reference

regarding this page (these pages) :

BH 66-2204-1 then 15

XXXXXXXXXX

XXXXXXXXXX

xxXXXXXXXX

XXXXXXXXXX

XXXXXXXXXX

XXXXXXXXXXX

NW 65994 Docld:32176688 Page 3

---

## Page 4

NW 65994

10

19

12

13'

15

15

Page:

03/24/75

03/25/75

05/02/75

05/20/75

06/16/75

05/28/75

06/28/75

09/04/75

09/05/75

09/11/75

09/12/75

09/26/75

10/09/75

91/12/75

11/21/75

11/20/75

66-2204

Document

Туре

Document

From

BH

HQ

HQ

•BH

RS

MEMO

TT

TT

TT

TT

MEMO

RS

NEWS ARTIC

HQ

HQ

BH

BH

HQ

HQ

BARNETT

HQ

Document

.To

ALL SACS

на

ALL SACS

ALL SACS

ALL EMPLOY

AT

ALL SACS

HQ

HQ

ALL SACS

ALL SACS

BH

BH

3rd

Agy

JFK Inventory Sheet

(Committees

Files)

Section #: 1

Other

Direct

Dupes

ACTUAL PERT. Rev.

Re: CHURCH COMM.

Rel.

With- FBI Ref

held

3rd Agy

Duplicate

Location

Postponements

NAR

NAR

NAR

NAR

NAR

NAR

NAR

NAR

NAR

NAR

NAR

NAR

NAR

NAR

NAR

NAR

---

## Page 5

NW 65994

P

Serial

17

18

19

20

21

22

22

23

24

25

26

27

28

29

29

29

30

Page:

Document

Document

Туре

Document

From

Document

12/12/75

HQ

BH

12/02/75

TESTIMONY

CHURCH COM

12/04/75

RS

HQ

BH

12/10/75

TT

• на

ALL SACS

12/02/75

TRANSCRIPT

CHURCH COM

12/05/75

RS

HQ

BH

12/24/75

AT

BH

HQ

12/24/75 LHM

BH

01/05/76

RS

11/11/76

AT

HQ

BH

BH

01/28/76

01/28/76

LHM

BH

AT

BH

02/12/76

TT

ALL SACS

02/24/76

AT

BH

HQ

07/16/76

AT

HQ

04/21/76

MEMO

THIRD PART NY

03/01/70

MEMO

THIRD PART

08/24/76

MEMO

HQ

ALL SACS

3rd

Other

Direct

Dupes

ACTUAL PERT. Rev.

14

61

17

61

34

34

16

34

-

-

With- FBI Ref

Duplicate

Rel. held

3rd Agy

Location

34

16

~

Postponements

NONE

NAR

NAR

NAR

NONE

NONE

NAR

NAR

NONE

NONE

NAR

NAR

NAR

NAR

NAR

NAR -

---

## Page 6

NW 65994

Docld:32176688

Serial

• Number

31

32

Pag

33

Document

Date

08/31/76

09/07/76

06/28/77

Page:

Grand Totals.....

Document

Type

TT

TT

MEMO

End of Report....

Document

From

HQ

HQ

HQ

Document

• To

ALL SACS

BH

ALL SACS

3rd

Agy

Other

165

Direct

Dupes

ACTUAL PERT.

50

215

56

Rev.

with-

held

FBI Ref

3rd Agy

Duplicate

Location.

56

56

Postponements'

NAR

NAR

NAR

---

## Page 7

CODE

TELETYPE

NITEL

EMDR 16

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

BORAL SATIONS SECTION

TO ALL SACS

is 19/25/00

MAR 2 2 1975

FROM DIRECTOR FBI

12:s0i-i.

SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE ACTIVIFISTYPE

SENATOR, FRANK CHURCH, CHAIRMAN OF THE SENATE SELECT

COMMITTEE TO STUDY GOVERNMENTAL OPERATIONS WITH RESPECT TO

INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES HAS MADE AN INITIAL REQUEST FOR INFORMA-

TION FROM THE FBI. AMONG THE ITEMS REQUESTED IS A BREAKDOWN

OF FIELD AGENT PERSONNEL ASSIGNED TO INTERNAL SECURITY AND

COUNTERINTELLIGENCE MATTERS.

ACCORDINGLY, WITHIN FOUR EIGHT HOURS EACH SAC SHOULD

SUTEL TO FBIHQ, ATTENTION: BUDGET AND ACCOUNTING SECTION,

SETTING FORTH SEPARATELY THE NUMBER OF SACS, ASACS, SUPERVISORS

AND AGENTS ASSIGNED TO INTERNAL SECURITY AND COUNTERINTELLI-

GENCE MATTERS. PERCENTAGES OF AN AGENT'S TIME, WHEN NOT

ASSIGNED FULL-TIME TO THESE ACTIVITIES, SHOULD BE USED IF APPRO-

PRIATE, PARTICULARLY IN THE SUPERVISORY CATEGORIES. THIS

Assoc. Dir.

Dep. AD Adm. -

Dep. AD Inv. -

Asst. Dir.:

Admin.

Comp. Syst.u

Ext. Affairs -

Files & Com. -

Gen. Inv. -

Ident. -

Inspection -

Intell. -

Laboratory

Plon. & Eval. -

Spoc. Inv. -

Training -

Legal Counce

Telephone Rm. -

irector sec

MÁI. ROON

VWV 65994^Döcld:3217668

INFORMATION SHOULD BE BROKEN DOWN SEPARATELY BETWEEN INTERNAL

1 - Each Assistant Director

NOTE: By letter dated 3/19/75 Senator Frank Church, Chairman of the -

'Senate

Select Committee To Study Governmental Operations With Pespect To Intelli-

gence Activities, made an initial request for data concerning the FBI's legal

authority, jurisdictional agreements, organization and staffing policies and

procedures and studies and reports concerning internal security and counter=

TELETYPE UNIT

---

## Page 8

TELETYPE TO ALL SACS

RE: SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

SECURITY AND COUNTERINTELLIGENCE, YOUR RESPONSE SHOULD

BE LINITED TO AGENT PERSONNEL ONLY.

NWW 65994- Docld:32176688-Page 8

n....

= =

---

## Page 9

FEDERAL GUREGU OF INVESAGATION

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

MAR 2 5 1375

PE7V23

NR 002 BH CODE

241

PM NITEL MARCH 25, 1975 DGS

TO:

DIRECTOR

FROM:

BIRMINGHAM (66-22 04)

Assue. Dir.

•Dop.-A.D.-Adin

Dep.-A.D.-Inv.

Arst. Dir.:

Arl in.

Cap, Bust.

Dit. Aflairo

I:.

t Lum.

..".l

JE

Pco

- 1199

Plain i Eval. -

SE

-Indi.

Legal 6 un. ..

Telephone Rm. -

ATIN: BUDGET AND ACCOUNTING SECTION

SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES.

REBUIEL, 3/24/74, REGARDING PERSONNEL ASSIGNED TO INTERNAL

SECURITY (IS ) AND COUNTERINTELLIGENCE (CI) MATTERS.

BIRMINGHAM HAS NO AGENT PERSONNEL ASSIGNED FULL-TIME TO THESE

MATTERS. FOLLOWING REPRESENT PERCENTAGES OF AGENT TIME:

AGENT

IS PERCENTAGE

CI PERCENTAGE

A

95

50

C

80

D

E

F

40

60

35

5

G

H

I

J

• K ( SUPERVISOR )

END

30

25

40

NN 55118 DocId: 32989628 Page 285

NW 65994 Docid:32176688 Page 9

40

10

0

15

10

ABI PORTATTON COSTAR OS

ESPRAEM

25

30

20

3p2

---

## Page 10

Haleite.

Saltis

1-1

iNen

indist

MaR 25

Wolvadia

0.035

‚]!'

"!"'.

Page 28602-116395-56

---

## Page 11

TO SACS ALL OFFICES

1 - Mr. T:J.Jenkins

1 - Mr. J. B. Adams

1 - Each Assistant Director

FROM DIRECTOR FBI (62-116395)

SENSTUDY 75

• 1 - Mr. W. 0. Cregar

PERSONAL ATTENTION

CAPTIONED MATTER PERTAINS TO BUREAU'S HANDLING OF REQUESTS

FROM SENATE AND HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEES TO STUDY GOVERNMENTAL

-то1/6"

ATT INTORNATION CONTAINED

MIANGIRI

119

HURT

CODE

TELETYPE

NITEL

5/2/75

OPERATIONS WITH RESPECT IO INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES. IN

CONNECTION FITH WORK OF THESE COMMITTEES, STAFF MEMBERS MAY SEEK

TO

INTERVIEW CURRENT AND FORMER FBI EMPLOYEES.

RECENTLY, THE SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE (SSC) STAFF HAS

INTERVIEVED SEVERAL FORMER EMPLOYEES AND IT IS ANTICIPATED

THAI MANY MORE SUCH PERSONNEL WILL BE CONTACTED E

THE FBI HAS PLEDCED FULL COOPERATION WITH THE COMMITTEE

1'1

AND HE WISH TO ASSIST AND FACILITATE ANY INVESTIGATIONS: UNDER-

TAKEN BY THE COMMITTEE WITH RESPECT TO THE FBI. HOWEVER, E

DO HAVE AN OBLIGATION TO INSURE THAT SENSITIVE SOURCES AND

METHODS AND ONGOING SENSITIVE INVESTIGATIONS ARE FULLY

Assoc. Dir. -_

Dep. AD Adm. -

REC-16

Dep. AD Inv. _

Asst. Dir.:

Admin. _

€18-7

Comp. Syst.

Ext. Affairs

877.91

SEE NOTESPAGEY TÃO1975

Files & Com.

Gon. Inv.

Ident.

FEDERAL BUREAU OF JINVESTIGATION

Prin

Inspection

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

Intell,

3

Laboratory

Plan. & Eval, ma

MAY O & 1975

Spec. Inv.

Training

"i?.

Legal Coun. _M

Telephone Rm. syl

ЕТУРЕ

Director Sec'y -

ROOM®

TELETYPE UNITE

CHEN 11 1975

NW 65994 -Docld:32176688-Page 11--

GD0 954-546

UNRECORDED COPY FILED IN

---

## Page 12

TELETYPI TO ALL OF

RE : : SENSTUDY 75

62-116395

ICES

PROTECTED. SHOULD ANY FORMER EMPLOYEE CONTACT YOUR OFFICE AND

HAVE ANY QUESTION REGARDING HIS OBLIGATION NOT TO DIVULGE INFOR-

MATION OBTAINED BY VIRTUE OF HIS PAST FBI EMPLOYMENT, HE SHOULD

BE INSIRUCTED TO CONTACT LEGAL COUNSEL, FBIHQ, BY COLLECT CALI.

YOUR CONVERSATIONS WITH FORMER EMPLOYEES MUST BE IN KEEPING WITH

OUR PLEDGE. IT IS BELIEVED SUCH A PROCEDURE HOULD INSURE PROPER

PROTECTION AND ALSO FACILITATE THE WORK OF THE SSC.

THE ABOVE PROCEDURE ALSO APPLIES TO CURRENT EMPLOYEES

OF YOUR OFFICE. HOWEVER, CONTACT WITH THE LEGAL, COUNSEL SHOULD

BE HANDLED THROUGH THE SAC.

NOTI: Teletype prepared for all offices to alert SACs to

the possibility former employees may contact their offices seeking

guidance.

The Office of Legal Counsel in response to requests from

former employees will utilize the briefing paper prepared by the

Intelligence Community Staff of the Director of Central

Intelligence and concurred in by Assistant Attorney General

Antonino Scalia.

NW 65994 Docld:32176688~Page 12- --

---

## Page 13

1

J. B. Adams

T. J. Jenkins

Each Assistant Director

CODE

TELETYPE

NITEL

TO ALL SACS

FROM DIRECTOR FBI

163-126395 2110

PERSONAL ATTENTION

MAx F2, 1975

SENSTUDY - 75.

REBUTEL MAY 2, 1975.

1 - Mr. W. O. Cregar

1 - Mr. S. F. Phillips

IN CONNECTION WITH WORK OF THE SENATE AND HOUSE SELECT

COMMITTEES, ITS REPRESENTATIVES MAY CONTACT YOUR OFFICE FOR

INFORMATION.

IN ONE RECENT INSTANCE, A REPRESENTATIVE OF THE SENATE

SELECT COMMITTEE TELEPHONICALLY INQUIRED AS TO IDENTITY OF SAC

IN A PARTICULAR OFFICE DURING 1970.

3*:

IN HANDLING SUCH INQUIRIES INSURE ESTABLISHING BONA FIDES

OF REPRESENTATIVE BY SHOW OF CREDENTIALS ON PERSONAL CONTACT OR,

IT TELEPHONIC CONTACT, BY TELEPHONING BACK TO COMMITTEE.

UNLESS INFORMATION IS OF A PUBLIC NATURE, AS IN THE INSTANCE

CITED ABOVE, OBTAIN FBIHQ CLEARANCE PRIOR TO SUPPLYING ANY

INFORMATION. FBIHO MURARI XPIRITOUSLY ADVISED OF ATI

INFORNATION FURNISHED.

COMMUNICATURE ME 9MNFORMATION CONTANEO

SFP: cme

MAY 2 i

TO DARE 1/919:2

ASS

(19)

BA

NOTE:

TELETYOR

Assoc. Dir.

Dep. AD Adm.

Referenced teletype alerted field to work of the

Dep. AD Inv,

Senate and House Select Committees and Bureau's handling

Asst. Dir.:

its requests.

Admin.

Also, it pointed out FBI has pledged full

of

coop-

Comp. Syst.

eration with Committees.

San Francisco teletype 5/14/75 advised

Ext. Affairs

Files.o.Com.-

that on that day Lester B. Seidel, Investigator, Senate Select

Committee, telephonically sought and was furnished identities

Gen. Inv. -

ident.

of SACs in San Francisco in 1970.

Seidel did not indicate

15 pectiog

specific nature of his inquiries.

Considering the publicity

notes

wbeing attorded the work or the committee, it is not inconceivable

Laboratory

Plan. &i Eval. -

some unauthorized persons may attempt to obtain information from

Spoc. Inv. -

the IsI particularly at field level, under guise of one of the

Training.

Committees It is therefore believed this teletype to all

SACS

Legal Coun.

Telephone Rm. [

Is desirable, as a cautignary measure.

MY 65994 Nốc là 32178638-Pao 2 4

GPO: 1975 0 - 569-920

i.л1

---

## Page 14

OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR

1-75

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

WASBINGTON, D.C. 20535

May 28, 1975

ALI INFORMATION CONTAI

TIPOIN IS UNCLASSIBTH

BY SPZA

1A8 /076-2050

RE: INTERVIEWS OF FBI EMPLOYEES

All employees are advised that Congress is conducting

an inquiry into activities of the Federal Bureau of Investigation.

Congressional staff members are conducting interviews of former

and current FBI employees. This Bureau has pledged its cooperation

with the Congress.

You are reminded of the FBI Employment Agreement

(copy attached) with which you agreed to comply during your employment

in the FBI and following termination of such employment.

Also, you are reminded of Title 28, Code of Federal

Regulations, Section 16.22 (copy attached), which reads as follows:

"No employee or former employee of the Department of

Justice shall, in response to a demand of a court or other authority,

produce any material contained in the files of the Department or disclose

any information relating to material contained in the files of the Department,

or disclose any information or produce any material acquired as part of

the performance of his official duties or because of his official status

without prior approval of the appropriate Department official or the

Attorney General in accordance with Section 16.24."

Also, you are reminded of Department of Justice Order

Number 116-56, dated May 15, 1956, (copy attached) which, among

other things, requires an employee upon the completion of his testimony

to prepare a memorandum outlining his testimony.

Our cooperative efforts, of course, must be consistent

with the above cited authority. Therefore, if you are contacted for

purpose of interview or testimony you are to request approval as

required by the Employment Agreement and await authorization before

ENCLOSURE

furnishing information, testimony, or record material

62-116395

Enclosures (3)

Wtie OT RECORDED

AS SUN 26 1919

Clarence M. Kelley

Director

ORIGINAL

RENO LUTION CO

1975

84%

NW 65994 Docld:32176688 Page 14

---

## Page 15

•7

FD-291 (Rev. 11-1-73)

EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT

As consideration for employment in the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), United

States Department of Justice, and as a condition for continued employment, I hereby declare

that I intend to be governed by and I will comply with the following provisions:

(1) That I am hereby advised and I understand that Federal law such as

Title 18, United States Code, Sections 793, 794; and 798; Order of the

President of the United States (Executive Order 11652); and regulations

issued by the Attorney General of the United States (28 Code of Federal

Regulations, Sections 16.21 through 16.26) prohibit loss, misuse, or un-

authorized disclosure or production of national security information, other

classified information and other nonclassified information in the files of

the FBI;

(2) I understand that unauthorized disclosure of information in the files

of the FBI or information I may acquire as an employee of the FBI could

result in impairment of national security, place human life in jeopardy, or

result in the denial of due process to a person or persons who are subjects

of an FBI investigation, or prevent the FBI from effectively discharging its

responsibilities.

I understand the need for this secrecy agreement; there-

fore, as consideration for employment I agree that I will never divulge,

publish, or reveal either by word or conduct, or by other means disclose to

any unauthorized recipient without official written authorization by the

Director of the FBI or his delegate, any information from the investigatory

files of the FBI or any information relating to material contained in the files,

or disclose any information or produce any material acquired as a part of the

performance of my official duties or because of my official status. The burden

is on me to determine, prior to disclosure, whether information may be disclosed

and in this regard I agree to request approval of the Director of the FBI in each

such instance by presenting the full text of my proposed disclosure in writing to

the Director of the FBI at least thirty (30) days prior to disclosure. I understand

that this agreement is not intended to apply to information which has been placed

in the public domain or to prevent me from writing or speaking about the FBI but

it is intended to prevent disclosure of information where disclosure would be

contrary to law, regulation or public policy. I agree the Director of the FBI is

in a better position than I to make that determination;

(3)

I agree that all information acquired by me in connection with my official

duties with the FBl and all official material to which I have access remains

the property of the United States of America, and I will surrender upon demand

by the Director of the FBI or his delegate, or upon separation from the FBI, any

material relating to such information or property in my possession;

(4) That I understand unauthorized disclosure may be a violation of Federal

law and prosecuted as a criminal offense and in addition to this agreement may

be enforced by means of an injunction or other civil remedy.

I accept the above provisions as conditions for my employment and continued employment

in the. F'BI. I agree to comply with these provisions both during my employment in the FBI and

following termination of such employment.

(Signature)

(Type or print name)

Witnessed and accepted in behalf of the Director, FBI, on

, 19

., by

(Signature)

NW 65994-Docld:32176688" Page 15 ~

---

## Page 16

Office of the Attarney Grieral

Washington, H. 0. 20530

January 18, 1973

ORDER NO.501-73

RULES AND REGULATIONS

Title 28- JUDICIAL

ADMINISTRATION

Chapter I Department of Justice

[Order 501-73]

PART 16 PRODUCTION OR DISCLO-

SURE OF MATERIAL OR INFORMA-

TION

Subpart B-Production or Disclosure

in Response to Subpenas or De-

mands of Courts or Other Authori-

ties

This order delegates to certain De-

partment of Justice officials the author-

ity to

approve the production or dis-

closure of material or information con-

tained in Department files, or informa-

tion or material acquired by a person

while employed by the Department. It

applies where a subpena, order or other

demand of & court

or other authority,

such as an administrative agency, is is-

sued for the production or disclosure of

such information.

By virtue of the authority vested in me

by 28 U.S.C. 509, 510, and 5 U.S.C. 301,

Subpart B of Part 16 of Chapter I of

Title 28, Code of Federal Regulations, is

revised, and its provisions renumbered,

to read as follows:

Subpart B, Production or Disclosure in Responso

to Subpenas or Demands of Courts or Other

Authorities

Sec.

other authority is issued for the produc-

tion or disclosure of (1)

any material

contained in the files of the Department,

(2) any information relating to material

contained in the files of the Department,

or

(3)

any information

or material

acquired by any person while such per-

son was an employee of the Department

as a part of the performance of his of-

ficial duties or because of his official

status.

(D)

For purposes of this subpart, the

term "employee of the Department" in-

cludes all officers and employees of the

United States appointed by, or subject

to the supervision, jurisdiction, or control

of, the Attorney General of the United

States, including U.S.

attorneys,

u.s.

marshals, and members of the staffs of

those officials.

§ 16.22 Production or disclosure prohib-

ited unless approved by appropriate

Department oflicial.

No employee or former employee of the

Department of Justice shall, in response

to a demand of a court or other au-

thority, produce any material contained

in the files of the Department or disclose

any information relating to material con-

tained in the files of the Department, or

INTORMATION CONTAINED

UNUT SSIFIAD

-2000

IS

MDR-16

H10

disclose any information or produce any.

material acquired as part of the per-

formance of his official duties or because

of his official status without prior ap-

proval of the appropriate Department of-

ficial or the Attorney General in accord-

ance with § 16.24.

Purpose and scope.

Procedure in the event of a de-

16.22 Production or

disclosure prohibited

mand for production

unless approved by appropriate De-

(a) Whenever a demand is made upon

partment oficial.

16.23 Procedure in the event of & demand

an employee or former employee of the

for production or disclosure.

Department for the production of ma-

action by

the appropriate De-

terial or the disclosure of information

partment official or the

described in

Attorney

§ 16.21(a),

notify the U.s.

PIT,

Procedure where a Department decl

the district where the issuing authority

slon concerning

demand is not

is located. The U.S. attorney shall im-

mado prior to the time a response

mediately request instructions from the

to the demand is required.

6.20 • Procedure in the event of an

appropriate Department official, as desig-

ruling.

nated in paragraph (b) of this section.

(b) The Department officials author-

AUTHORITY: 28 U.S.C. 509, 610 and 5 U.S.C.

101.

ized to approve production or disclosure

under this subpart are:

jubpart B-Production or Disclosure

(1) In the event that the case or other

in Response to Subpenas or De-

matter which gave rise to the demanded

mands of Courts or Other Authori-

material or information is or, if closed,

was within the cognizance of a division

ties

of the Department,

§ 16.21 Purpose and scopc.

torney General in charge of that divi-

(a) This subpart sets forth the pro-

sion. This authority may be redelegated

sedures to be followed when a subpena,

to Deputy Assistant Attorneys General.

(2) In instances of demands that are

order, or other demand (hereinafter re-

not covered by paragraph (b) (1) of this

erred to as & "demand" of a court CLOSeTEn

NW 65994 Docld:32176688~Page 16 -

62-110391

---

## Page 17

(1) The Director of the Federal Bu- § 16.26 Procedure in the event of an ad-

reau of Investigation, if

verse ruling.

one made on an employee or former em-

If the court or other authority declines

ployee of that Bureau for information

to stay the effect of the demand in re-

or if the demand calls for the production

of material from the files of that Bu-

sponse to a request made in accordance

with § 16.25 pending receipt of instruc-

The Director of the Bureau of

tions, or if the court or other authority

Prisons, If the demand 1s one made on

that the demand must be com-

an employee or former employee of that

plied with irrespective of instructions

Bureau for information

not to produce the material or disclose

mand calls for

the production of ma-

terial from the files of that Bureau.

the information sought, in accordance

(3) In instances of demands that are

with § 16.24, the employee or former em-

not covered by paragraph (b) (1) or (2) ployee upon whom the demand has been

section, the Deputy Attorney made shall respectfully decline to comply

with the demand. "United States ex rel

(c) If oral testimony is sought by the

Touhy v. Ragen,", 340 UJ.S. 462.

demand, an affidavit, or, if that is not.

feasible, a statement by the party seek-

Dated: January 11, 1973.

ing the testimony or his attorney, setting

RICHARD G. KLEINDIENSI,

forth a summary of the testimony de-

Attorney General.

sired, must be furnished for submission

[FR Doc.73-1071 Elled I-17-73;8:45 am]

by the U.S, attorney to the appropriate

Department official.

$ 16.24 Final action by the appropriate

Department official or the

Altorney

Gencral.

(a) If the appropriate Department of-

ficial, as designated in § 16.23(b), ap-

proves a demand for the production of

material or.

disclosure of information,

he shall so notify the U.S. attorney and

such other persons as circumstances may

warrant.

(b) If the

§ 16.23(b),

decides not to approve & demand for the

production of material or disclosure of

information, he shall immediately refer

the demand to the Attorney General for

decision. Upon such referral, the Attor-

ney General shall make the final decision

and give notice thereof to the U.S. attor-

such other persons as

stances may warrant.

§ 16.25

Procedure where a Department

decision concerning a demand is not

made prior to the

time a response to

the demand is required.

If response to the demand is required

before the instructions from the appro-

priate Department official or the Attor-

ney General are received, the U.S. attor-

ney or other Department attorney des-

ignated for the purpose shall appear with

the employee or former employee of the

Department upon whom the demand has

regulations contained in this subpart and

niorm the court or other authority that

the demand has been,

prompt consideration of the appropriate

Department official and shall respect-

lully request the court or authority to

stay the demand pending receipt of the

requested instructions.

NW 65994 -Docld:32176688 -Page 17 *

---

## Page 18

OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL

WASHINGTON, D. C.

ORDER NO. 116-56

: May 15, 1956

It 1s the policy of the Department of Justice to extend the fullest

possible cooperation to congressional committees requesting information from

departmental files, Interviews with department employees, testimony of depart-

ment personnel, or testimony of federal prisoners.

The following procedures

are prescribed in order to effectuate this policy on a basis which will be

mutually satisfactory to the congressional cormittees and to the Department.

(Inis order supersedes the Deputy Attorney General's Memorandum No. 5, dated

March 23, 1953; and his Memorandum No. 97, dated August 5, 1954. It formal-

Izes the Attorney General's press release of November 5, 1953, establishing

procedures to permit committees of the Congress and their authorized repre-

sentatives to interview and to take sworn testimony from Federal prisoners.

It supplements Order No. 3229 (Revised) dated January 13, 1953, and Order

No. 3464, Supplement No. 4 (Revised) dated January 13, 1953 (with Memorandum

"Authorization Under Order No. 3464 Supplement No. 4 (Revised)" dated

January 13, 1953), Insofar as said orders have reference to procedures to be

followed in the Department's relations with congressional committees. In

support of this order, reference should be had to the President's letter

dated May 17, 1954, addressed to the Secretary of Defense, and to the Attorney

General's Memorandum which accompanied 1t.]

A. REQUESTS FOR INFORMATION FROM DEPARIMENT FILES

1. Congressional committee requests for the examination of files

ALL, INFORMATION CONTAINE?

or other confidential information should be reduced to writing, signed by

SIGNEIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

BYSPLACH

the chairman of the committee, and addressed to the Deputy Attorney General,

who is responsible for the coordination of our liaison with Congress and

congressional committees. The request shall state the specific information

sought as well as the specific objective for which it is sought.

The Deputy

Attorney General will forward the request to the appropriate division where a

reply will be prepared and returned for the Deputy Attorney General's signa-

1016-2000

DATE

2. If the request concerns a closed case, 1. e., one in which

there is no litigation or administrative action pending or contemplated,

the file may be made avallable for review in the Department, in the presence

of the official or employee having custody thereof.

The following procedure

shall be followed in such cases:

NW 65994-Docld:32176688 Page 18

a. The reply letter will advise the committee that the

file is available for examination and set forth the

name, telephone extension number, and room number of

the person who will have custody of the file to be

reviewed;

CLOSURE,

62-116385=

---

## Page 19

- 2 -

b. Before making the file available to the committee

representative all reports and memoranda from the FBI

as well as investigative reports from any other agency,

will be removed from the file and not be made available

for examination; provided however that if the committee

representative states that it is essential that information

from the FBI reports and memoranda be made available,

he will be advised that the request will be considered

by the Department. Thereafter a summary of the contents

of the FBI reports and memoranda involved will be

prepared which will not aisclose Investigative tech-

niques, the identity of confidential informants, or

other matters which might jeopardize the investigative

operations of the FBI.

this summary will be forwarded

by the division to the FBI with a request for advice as

to whether the fbl has any objection to examination of

such summary by the committee representative. The file

will not be physically relinquished from the custody of

the Department.

If the committee representative desires

to examine investigative reports from other government

agencies, contained in the files of the Department, he

will be advised to direct his request to the agency whose

reports are concerned.

3. If the request concerns an open case, 1. e., one which liti-

gation or administrative action 1s pending or contemplated, the file may

not be made available for examination by the committee's representative.

The following procedure shall be

followed:

a. The reply letter should advise the committee that

Its request concerns a case in which litigation or

administrative action is pending or contemplated, and

state that the file cannot be made available until the

case is completed; and

b. Should briefly set forth the status of the case in

as much detail as is practicable and prudent without

jeopardizing the pending contemplated Iltigation or

administrative action.

B. REQUESTS FOR INTERVIENS WITH DEPARIMENTAL PERSONNEL

I. Requests for interviews with departmental personnel regarding

any official matters within the Department should be reduced to writing,

signed by the chairman of the committee, and addressed to the Deputy Attorney

General. When the approval of the Deputy Attorney General is given, the

employee is expected to discuss such matters freely and cooperatively with

the representative, subject to the limitations prescribed In A respecting

open cases and data in investigative reports;

NW 65994 -Docld:32176688-Page 19

---

## Page 20

- 3 -

2. Upon the completion of the interview with the committee repre-

sentative the employee will prepare a summary of it for the file, with a

copy routed to his division head and a copy routed to the Deputy Attorney

C.

EMPLOYEES TESTIFYING BEFORE CONGRESSIONAI COMMITTEES

1. When an employee is requested to testify before a congressional

committee regarding official matters within the Department the Deputy Attorney

General shall be promptly informed.

When the Deputy Attorney General's approv-

al is given the employee is expected to testify freely subject to limitations

prescribed in A respecting open cases and data in investigative reports;

2. An employee subpoenaed to testify before a congressional committee

on official matters within the department shall promptly notify the Deputy .

Attorney General.

In general he shall be guided in testifying by Order 3229

(Revised) and the President's letter of May 17, 1954, cited at the beginning

of this Order.

3. Upon the completion of his testimony the employee will prepare

a memorandum outllning his testimony with a copy routed to his division head

and a copy routed to the Deputy Attorney General.

D. REQUESTS OF CONCRESSIONAL COMMITTEES FOR THE TESTIMONY OF FEDERAL PRISONERS

Because of the custodial hazards involved and the extent to which

their public testimony may alfect the discipline and well-being of the institu-

tion, it 1s the policy of the Department not to deliver Federal prisoners out-

side the penal institution in which they are Incarcerated for the purpose of

being Intervlewed or examined under oath by congressional committees.

However,

when it appears that no pending Investigation or legal proceeding vill be

adversely affected thereby and that the public interest will not be otherwise

adversely affected, Federal prisoners may be interviewed or examined under oath

by congressional committees in the institution in which they are incarcerated

under the folloving procedures, and tith the specific advance approval of the

Deputy Attorney General.

I. Arrangements for interviewing and taking of sworn testimony

from a Federal prisoner by a committee of the Congress or the authorized

representatives of such a committee shall be made in the form of a written

request by the chairman of the committee to the Deputy Attorney General.

2. Such written request shall be made at least ten (10) days

prior to the requested date for the interview and the taking of testimony

and shall be accompanied by written evidence that authorization for the

interview or the taking of svorn testimony was approved by vote of the com-

mittee. Such request shall contain a statement of the purpose and the sub-

jects upon which the prisoner will be interrogated as vell as the names of

all persons other than the representatives of the Department of Justice who

will be present

3. A member of the interested committee of the Congress shall be

present during the entire time of the interrogation.

NW 65994^Docld:32176688 Page 20 " -

---

## Page 21

4. The warden of the penal institution in which the Federal

other witness who is not a prisoner.

5. The warden of the penal institution shall have complete

authority in conformity with the requirements of security and the mainte

nance of discipline to limit the number of persons who will be present at

the intervier and taking of testimony.

6. The warden or his authorized representative shall be present

at the interview and at the taking of testimony and the Department of Justice

shall have the right to have one of, its representatives present throughout

the interview and taling of testimony.

?. The committee shall arrange to have a stenographic transcript

made of the entire proceedings at committee expense and shall furnish a copy

of the transcript to the Department of Justice.

E. OBSERVERS IN ALTENDANCE AT COMMITTED HEARINGS

In order that the Department may be kept currently advised in

matters within Its responsibility, and in order that the Deputy Attorney

General may properly coordinate the Department's liaison with Congress and

its committees, each division that has an observer in attendance at a

congrssional hearing, will have the observer prepare a written summary of

the proceeding which should be sent to the division head and a copy routed

to the Deputy Attorney General.

/s/ Herbert Brownell, Jr.

Attorney General

NW 65994 Docld:32176688-Page 21 -

---

## Page 22

CODE

TELETYPE

B. Adams

2

Ms.

J.

A. Mintz

(1 - Mr.

J. B. Hotis)

NITEL

1 ~ MT. J: Cochran, JI.

JUNE 27, 1975

TO SACS ATLANTA•

BIRMINGHAM

ALBANY

JACKSONVILLE

FROM DIRECTOR FBI (62-116395)

SENSTUDY 75

RNOXVILLE

LOS ANGELES

PERSONAL ATTENTION

TAMPA

(Attn:

J. Brownfield)

CHICAGO

:1 - Mr. W. M. Mooney

1 - Mc. W. R. Wannall

1 - Mr. R. I. Shackelford

1 - Mc. W. O. Cregar

1 - Mr. S. F. Phillips

REBUTEL, MAY 2, 1975.

INQUIRIES MADE OF BUREAU BY SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE (SSC)

CONCERNING A NUMBER OF PRESENT AND FORMER FBI EMPLOYEES,

INCLUDING THEIR CURRENT WHEREABOUTS, SUGGESTS THEY MAY BE

INTERVIEWED BY SSC STAFF CONCERNING BUREAU'S FORMER INVESTIGA-

TION OF MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR. SET OUT BELOW ARE NAMES AND

IAST KNOWN ADDRESSES OF FORMER BUREAU EMPLOYEES AND OFFICE OF

ASSIGNMENT OF INCUMBENTS, ALL OF WHOM SSC HAS INQUIRED ABOUT

EACH OF THESE FORMER EMPLOYEES IS TO BE IMMEDIATELY

CONTACTED AND ALERTED THAT HE MIGHT BE APPROACHED BY THE SSC

STAFF ABQUT THE KING INVESTIGATION. • THEY SHOULD BE TOLD THAT

2 - ENCLOSURE

IN THE

ALL SHES ARE NERVIEWED AND DURING I COURSE

Assoc. Dir. anae

SFP: 1hb

Dep. AD Adm. -

62-11639

= 322

Dep. AD Inv. -

Asst. Dir.:

Admin.

VEGETAL

SEE NOTE PAGE

3 JUL 9 1975 "

Comp. Syst.--

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Ext. Affairs

Files & Com. w

Gon. Inv.

COME NICATIONS, SECTION

Ident.

Inspoction.

JUN 271875

AIL INTORMITIONT CE

waC

Intell.

Lashine

Loboratory

Plan. & Eval.

-

TALATYPE

MORN

Spac. Inv.

Training

Logal Coun..

Telaphone Rm. _

Diractor Soc'y -

MAIL ROOM

TELETYPE UNIT I

NW 65994-Dodd: 32576875Page-22 -

---

## Page 23

PAGE TWO 62-116395

SAFE, QUESTIONS ARE ASKED WHICH RELATE TO SENSITIVE BUREAU

OPERATIONS (SOURCES, METHODS, TECHNIQUES, THIRD AGENCY RULE

AND ONGOING INVESTIGATIONS), THY MAY REQUEST THAT AN IBI

AGENT BE PRESENT. BUREAU WILL PROVIDE AGENT ON REQUEST OF

INTERVIELEE. AS A PRELUDE TO INTERVIEN, THE FORMER EMPLOYEE

MAY, AFTER BEING CONTACIED BY SSG STAFF, CONTACT BUREAU'S

LEGAL COUNSEL DIVISION BY COLLECT CALL FOR FULL INFORMATION

TO ASSIST HIM, INCLUDING OBLIGATIONS AS TO CONFIDENTIALITY

INFORMATION ACQUIRED AS FBI IMPLOYEE. IT IS EMPHASIZED

THAI BUREAU'S OFFER OF ASSISTANCE IS NOT INTENDED TO IMPEDE

SSC WORK BUT IS DONE AS COOPERATIVE GESTURE AND TO SAFEGUARD

SENSITIVE BUREAU INFORMATION. CONTACIS WITH THESE FORMER

EMPLOYEES TO BE HANDLED PERSONALLY BY SAC OR ASAC. IN EVENT

IHIS WOT FEASIBLE FOR JUSI CAUSI, TO BE HANDLED BY A SENIOR

SUPERVISOR.

INCUMBENT EMPLOYEES TO BE ADVISED THAT IF CONTACIED BY

SSC STAFF FOR INTERVIE, LEGAL COUNSEL DIVISION TO BE

IMMEDIATELY NOTIFIED THROUGH SAC.

IMMEDIATELY AFTER CONTACI, RESULIS SHOULD BE FURNISHED

BUREAU BY TELETYPE IN ABOVE CAPTION. IF A FORMER EMPLOYEE IS

NO LONGER IN YOUR TERRITORY OR TEMPORARILY AFAY, SET OUT ILAD

NW 65994-Đocld:32176688-Page-23 ~

---

## Page 24

PAGE THREE

62-116395

ATLAITA: INCUMBENIS - DONALD P. BURGESS, RICHARD E.

FUGATT, EDMUND F. HAGGERTY, D. RICHARD HAMILTON, CHARLES I.

HAYNES, WILBUR W. SEITZER, ROBERI W. INONSON, FORDER -

MARION I. CHEER, 1613 GATE AVENUE, ALBAY, GEORGIA 31705;

CHARLES I. HARDING; 2243 PICCLIFF DRIVE, LORTHEAST, ATLANTA,

GEORGIA 30345.

BIRITINGHAM: LAVRENCE I. CURLEY, 1340 VESIHINISTER •

PLACE, BIRMINGHAI, ALABAMA 35235.

ALBANY: HENRY G. ROWSI, JR., 39 NORTH MAIN STREET,

EVOSBURG FALLS, VERMONT 05450.

JACKSONVILLE: WILLIAM INE BOLYARD - INCUMBENT.

KNOXVILLE: . JONY BENTON • INCUMBILIT.

LOS AÏGEIES: JAMES M. KELLOGG - INCUMBINI.

TAMPA: JAGS E. MCMAHON, 3110 COCOS ROAD, TAMPA,

FLORIDA 33618.

CHICAGO: JOHN BASSETT - INCUMBENT.

NOTE:

Legal Counsel Division has obtained an advanced

copy of a letter dated 6/24/75 from John I. Elliff of the

SSC Staff to K. Villiam O'Connor of the Deputy AG's Office

(copy attached) which makes reference to prior SSC requests

concerning the King investigation and'asles for the present

offices of assignment or last known addresses of 19 individuals.

The list had 21 names, two of thich were duplicates. Several

NOTE CONTINUED PAGE 4

N

65994 Docld:32176688 -Page 24

---

## Page 25

PAGE FOUR

62-116395

NOTE CONTINUED:

of the names were misspelled but we have been able to fairly

well establish that the individuals

they are interested in

are those listed above. Included in the list were the

following supervisors presently assigned at FBIHQ: William D.

Campbell - Laboratory, Joseph H. O'Rourke - Training Division

and Timothy Dorch - INTD. The caution taken herein in

alerting former employees, as well as incumbents, is same ve

have taken by previous teletypes to selected SACs. After

dispatch instant teletype, copies will be filed in personnel

files of all named herein. The referenced 5/2/75 teletype

was to all offices furnishing background regarding Senstudy 75.

We are separately handling necessary response to the SSC.

NW 65994-Docld:32176688-Page 25

---

## Page 26

NRC33 WA COPE

6:16P:1 9/4/75 NITEL AJM

TO ALL SACS

FRO DIRECTOR

(62-116395)

PERSO"AL

SINSTUDY. 75

REBUTEL MAY 2, 1975.

PURPOSES OF INSTANT TELETYPE ARE TO (I REITEPATE THAT

FRI HAS PLEDGED FULL COOPERATID! WITH THE SCIATE SOLECT

COMMITTEE (SSC) AND MISHES TO ASSIST AND FACILITATE ANY

INVISTIGATIONS UADERTAKEN RY THE SSC WITH RESPECT TO THE FAI:

"AND (?) SIT FORTH NEN PROCEDUPE RELATING TO SSC STAFF

INTERVIDHS OF CURREMT AND FOPMER FBI EMPLOYEES.

FOP INFORMATION OF THOSE DEFICES WHICH HAVE NOT PREVIOUSLY

• HAD CURRENT OR FOPMER EMPLOYEES IN ITS TERRITOY INTERVICNED

DY THE SSC, THE BUREAU FREQUENTLY LEARNS FROM THE SSE OR

OTHERWISE THAT FORMER EMPLOYTES ARE REING CONSIDERED FOR

INTERVIEW 2Y THE SC STAFF. INSTRUCTIONS ARE ISSUSE FOR THE

FIELD OFFICE TO CONTACT THE FORMER EMPLOYTE TO ALTRI HIM AS TO

POSSIBLE INTERVITY, ROMIND MIY DE HIS CONFINENTIALITY AGREEMENT

WITH THE

BUREAU AND SUGGEST THAT IF HE IS CONTACTER FOR

ASAC

62-236.

GILBERI

ICC

dest.

SEARCHED.

SERIALIZED 6B TILED B

KEEFE

LONERGAN.

SEP 4 1975

FBI ALBANY

MW 54955 DocId: 32989494 Page 34

NW 65994-D0ela2170088-Page 26

---

## Page 27

PAGE THO

INTERVIEW, HE MAY CONTACI THE LEGAL COUNSEL DIVISION BY

COLLECI CALL FOR FURTHER INFORMATION. IN THE USUAL CASE,

1S CIRCUNSIA""CES UNFOLD, THE FORMER EMPLOYEE IS TOLNCIS

THAI HE HAS A RIGHI TO LEGAL COUNSEL, PUI THAT THE BURTAU

CANNOI PROVICE SAME; (2) THAT THE BUREAU HAS WAIVED THE

CONFIDENTIALITY AGREEMENT FOR THE INTERVIEW VITHIN SPECIFIED

PARAMETERS; AMD (3) THAT THERE ARE FOUR PRIVILEGED AREAS IN

WHICH HE IS WOT REQUIRED TO ANSWER QUESTION. THESE AREAS

ARE RELATING TO INFORMATION WHICH MAY CAS IDENTIFY BUREAU

SOURCES; (B) REVEAL SENSITIVE METHODS/ TECHNIQUES; (C) REVEAL

IDENTITIES OF THIRD AGENCIES, INCLUDING FOREIÇN INTELLIGENCH,

AGENCIES, OR INFORMATION FROM SUCH AGENCIES; AND (D) ADVERSELY

AFFECI ONGOING BURFAU INVESTIGATIONS.

HERETOFORE, BUREAU HAS OFFERED INTERVIFWEES CONSULTATION

PRIVILEGES WHEREBY A BUREAU SUPERVISOR WOULD RE AVAILAPLE

NEARBY, ALTHOUGH NOI ACTUALLY AT INTERVISH, SO INTERVIENEE

MIGHT CONSULT WITH HIM SHOULD QUESTIONS ARISE AS TO PARAMETERS

OF INTERVIEM OR PRIVILEGED AREAS. THE CONSULIANI DID NOT ACT

AS A LIGAL ADVISOR.

EFFECTIVE IMMEDIATELY, BUREAU WILL NO LONGER PROVIDE

HN 54955 DocId: 32989494 Page 35

NW 65994-Doeld:32176688-Page-27-

---

## Page 28

PAGE THREE

01-THE-SCENE PERSONNEL FOR CONSULTATION PURPOSES TO ASSIST

HITHER CURRENI OF FORMER EMPLOYEES. PROSPECTIVE INTERVICLEIS

SHOULD BE TOLD THAI, IF THEY DESIRE ASSISTANCE OF IHIS NATURE

DURING AN INTERVIEW, THEY MAY CONTACI EITHER PERSONALLY CIF

INTERVIEW IS IN MASHINGION, DO CO) OR 3Y COLLECI CALL, THE

ASSISTANI DIRECIOR OF THE INTELLIGENCE DIVISION, MR. I. R.

WANNALL, OR, IN HIS ABSENCE, SECTION CHIEF I. O. GREGAR.

THIS CHANGE IN PROCEDURE SHOULD NOT BE CONSTRUEN AS

LESSENING THE ASSISIANCE WE ARE FURNISHING TO CURRENT AND

FORMER EMPLOYEES.

FOR YOUR ADDITIONAL INFORMATION, I AM WORKING WITH THE

DEPARTMENT IN EXPLORING AVENUES

TO ARRANGE LEGAL REPRESENTATION,

WHEN NECESSARY, FOR CURRENT AND FORMER EMPLOYDES WITHOUT

EXPENSE TO THEM. YOU WILL BE KEPT ADVISED OF DEVELOPMENTS

IN THIS REGARD.

END

LVV FBI ALBANY

CLR

HW 54955 DocId: 32989494

NW 65994 Docid:32176688 Page 28

Page 36

---

## Page 29

NR B3D WA CODE

615PM NITEL 9/5/75 PMJ

IO-ALEXANDRIA

BALTIMORE

BIRMINGHAM

BOSTON

CHICAGO

CINCINNATI

• DALLAS

JACKSON

LOS ANGELES

NEW YORK

PHILADELPHIA

• SAN DIEGO

EL. PASO

JACKSONVILLE

MEMPHIS

OKLAHOMA CITY

PHOENIX

SAN FRANCISCO

INDIA NAPOLIS

LOUISVILLE

MIAMI

OMAHA

SI. LOUIS

SAVANNAH

SEATILE

FROM DIRECTOR (62-116395)

PERSONAL ATTENTION

SENSTUDY 75

REBUTELS MAY, 2, 1975, AND SEPTEMBER 4, 1975.

SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE (SSC) HAS REQUESTED WHEREABOUTS

OF A NUMBER OF FORMER FBI EMPLOYEES INDICATING THEY MAY BE

INTERVIEWED BY THE SSO STAFF.: LISTED BELOW, BY FIELD OFFICE

TERRITORY, ARE THESE FORMER EMPLOYEES AND THEIR LAST KNOWN

ADDRESSES AS CONTAINED IN BUREAU FILES.

- 9/5/15.

tel

fee my R

60k1152

SEARCHED..!

SERIALIZED.

AT FILEE

NW 65994-Docld:3217668&-Rage 29 -

---

## Page 30

PAGE TWO

INFORMATION FROM SSC INDICATES NAMES OF FORMER SA'S

• LITRENTO AND STEWART DEVELOPED AS HAVING BEEN RESPONSIBLE FOR

SUPERVISING COMMUNICATIONS BETWEEN THE FBI AND CIA CONCERNING

MAIL OPENING ACIVITIES. ALL OTHERS IN LIST BELOW WERE EITHER

SAC, ASAC, OR BOTH, DURING PERIOD 1959 - 1966 IN ONE OR MORE

OF THE FOLLOWING OFFICES: BOSTON, DETROIT, LOS ANGELES, MIAMI;

NEW YORK, SAN FRANCISCO; SEATTLE; AND WASHINGION FIELD. THEY

PRESUMABLY ARE ALSO KNOWLEDGEABLE CONCERNING MAIL OPENINGS:

EACH OF THESE FORMER EMPLOYEES IS TO BE IMMEDIATELY

CONTACTED AND ALERTED THAT HE MIGHT

BE APPROACHED BY THE SSC

STAFF FOR INTERVIEW. THE FORMER EMPLOYEE MAY, AFTER BEING

CONTACIED BY SSC STAFF, CONTACT BUREAU'S LEGAL COUNSEL DIVISION

BY COLLECI CALL FOR FULL INFORMATION TO ASSIST HIM INCLUDING

OBLIGATIONS AS TO CONFIDENTIALITY OF INFORMATION ACQUIRED AS

FBI EMPLOYEE" IT. IS EMPHASIZED THAT BUREAU'S OFFER OF

ASSISTANCE IS NOT INTENDED TO IMPEDE SSC WORK, BUT IS DONE

AS COOPERATIVE GESTURE AND TO SAFEGUARD SENSITIVE BUREAU

INFORMATION.

NW 65994-Đocld:32176688-Page 30

---

## Page 31

PAGE THREE

CONTACIS WITH THESE FORMER EMPLOYEES TO BE HANDLED

PERSONALLY BY. SAC OR ASAC. IN EVENI THIS IS NOT FEASIBLE

FOR JUST CAUSE, IO BE HANDLED BY A SENIOR SUPERVISOR:

IMMEDIATELY AFTER CONTACI, RESULIS SHOULD BE FURNISHED

BUREAU BY NITEL IN ABOVE CAPTION, BRIEFLY INCLUDING REACTION

OF FORMER EMPLOYEES CONTACTED®

IF A FORMER EMPLOYEE NO

LONGER IN YOUR TERRITORY OR TEMPORARILY AWAY, SET OUT LEAD TO

OTHER OFFICE IMMEDIATELY WITH COPY IO FBIHQ.

ALEXANDRIA:

W. DONALD STEWARI, CRYSTAL HOUSE I, APARTMENI 202, ARLINGTON,

VIRGINIA:

JAMES H• GALE; 3307 ROCKY MOUNT ROAD, FAIRFAX, VIRGINIA

TROMAS E BISHOP, 8820 STARK ROAD, ANNANDALE, VIRGINIA

BALTIMORE:

ANTHONY PO LITRENTO, 2810 STONYBROOK DRIVE, BOWIE, MARYLAND

PAUL, O'CONNELL, JR., 2417 STRATION DRIVE; POTOMAC, MARYLAND

DONALD E. RONEY, 131 CAMBRIDGE DRIVE, WINDSOR HILLS,

WILMINGTON, DELAWARE

' VICTOR TURYN, 264 TURF VALLEY ROAD, ELLICOIT CITY,

MARYLAND

DONALD W. MORLEY, BOX 222, NEW MARKET, MARYLAND

NW-65994-Đocld:32176688 Page 31

---

## Page 32

U

PAGE

FOUR

BIRMINGHAM:

JOHN DAVID POPE, JR., 221 REMINGION ROAD, BIRMINGHAM, ALABAMA

BOSTON:

LEO L: LAUGHLIN, 9 EVERETT AVENUE, WINCHESTER, MASSACHUSETIS

EDWARD J. POWERS, ID COLONIAL DRIVE, BEDFORD, NEW HAMPSHIRE

JoF • DESMOND, 185 FRANKLIN STREET, BOSION, MASSACHUSETIS

CHICAGO:

MARI, CHICAGO, ILLINOIS

MARLIN #. JOHNSON, CANTEEN CORPORATION, THE MERCHANDISE

HARVEY G. FOSER, 1012 SOUTH HAMLIN, PARK RIDGE,: ILLINOIS

CINCINNATI:

PAUL FIELDS, 2677 CYCLORAMA DRIVE, CINCINNATI, OHIO"•

HARRY J. MORGAN, 5314 ELMOREST LANE, CINCINNATI, OHIO

DALLAS:

PAUL HO STODDARD, 3014 CHATTERION DRIVE, SAN ANGELO, TEXAS

KENNETH E. COMMONS, 2458 DOUGLAS DRIVE, SAN ANGELO, TEXAS

EL PASO:

KARL W. DISSLY, POST OFFICE BOX 9762, EL PASO, TEXAS

INDIANAPOLIS:

DILLARD W. HOWELL, 6413 CARDINAL LANE, INDIANAPOLIS,

INDIANA

ALLAN GILLIES, 8228 HOOVER LANE, INDIANAPOLIS, INDIANA

JACKSON:

WILLIAMS W. BURKE, JR..g. 1847 AZTEC DRIVE, JACKSON,

MISSISSIPPI

NW 65994-Docld:32176688-Page-32 =

---

## Page 33

PAGE fIVE

•JACKSONVILLE: '

DONALD K. BROWN, 826 BROOKMONI AVENUE, EASI JACKSONVILLE,

FLORIDA

WILLIAM M: ALEXANDER, 4857 WATER OAR LANE, JACKSONVILLE,

FLORIDA

LOUISVILLE:

BERNARD C. BROWN, 2301 NEWMARKET DRIVE, N.E.•, LOUISVILLE,

KENTUCKY'

LOS ANGELES:

WILLIAM G. SIMON, 2075- LOMBARDY ROAD, SAN MARINO,

2035

1: 380-3330

h: 681-2129

CALIFORNIA

WESLEY G. GRAPP, 4248 BON HOMME ROAD, WOODLAND HILLS.

CALIFORNIA

CALIFORNIA

0:646-3722

646-5921

1: 340-6308

ARNOLD C. LARSON, 4232 ABBINGTON COURT, WESTLAKE VILLAGE, O: 646-8314

h: 889-4290

/ JOSEPH K. PONDER:, 3719 CARRIAGE HOUSE COURT, ALEXANDRIA, 0: 272-9357

VIRGINIA. BUSINESS ADDRESS: 3038 SOUTH RED HILL AVENUE,

h:

SANTA ANA, CALIFORNIA

TRE 9460 Wilture Blud, Beverly Its Caly

90212

MEMPHIS:

E. HUGO WINTERROWD.,. 1558 NORTH PARKWAY, MEMPHIS, TENNESSEE

MIAMI:

THOMAS ME ANDREWS, 324 NEAPOLITAN WAY, NAPLES, FLORIDA

• FREDERICK F. FOX, 11450. W. BISCAYNE CANAL ROAD, MIAMI,

FLORIDA.

NW 65994- Docld:32176688 Page 33

---

## Page 34

PAGE SIX

NEW. YORK :

JOSEPH L. SCHMIT, 656 HUNT LANE, MANHASSET, NEW YORK

HENRY A. FIIZGIBBON, 76 EASTON ROAD., BRONXVILLE, NEW. YORK

OKLAHOMA CITY:

JAMES T. MORELAND, 108 FERN DRIVE, POTEAU, OKLAHOMA.

LEE 0, TEAGUE, 25D1 N.l.. 121ST STREET, OKLAHOMA CITY,

OKLAHOMA

OMAHA :.

JOHN F.. CALLAGHAN, IOWA LAW ENFORCEMENT ACADEMY,

CAMP DODGE, POST OFFICE BOX I3D, JOHNSTON, IOWA

PHILADELPHIA:

RICHARD J. 'BAKER., 219 JEFFREY LANE, NEWTON SQUARE,

PENNSYLVANIA

JOHN: F. MALONE, 25 GARFIELD: AVENUE, CARBONDALE, PENNSYLVANIA

PHOENIX'S

PALMER M. BAKEN; .JR., 3832 EAST YUCCA STREET, PHOENIX,

ARIZONA

ST• LOUIS:

THOMAS J. GEARTY, 6630 CLAYTON ROAD NR. 105, RICHMOND HEIGHTS,

MISSOURI

WESLEY T. WHALEY, 286 GREEN TRAILS DRIVE, CHESTERFIELD,

MISSOURI

NW 65994-Dold:32176688-Page- 34

---

## Page 35

iu

PAGE SEVEN•

SAN DIEGO'S

FRANK L. PRICE, 2705 TOKALON STREET, SAN DIEGO, CALIFORNIA

SAN FRANCISCO:

CURTIS O. LYNUM, 644 EAST HILLSDALE BOULEVARD, SAN MATEO,

CALIFORNIA

HAROLD E. WELBORN, 13067 LA VISTA COURT, SARATOGA,

• CALIFORNIA

SAVANNAH::

TROY COLEMAN, 36 CROMWELL ROAD, WILMINGION PARK, SAVANNAH,

*GEORGIA

JOSEPH D. PURVIS, 721 DANCY AVENUE, SAVANNAH, GEORGIA

SEATTLE:

LELAND V. BOARDMAN, ROUTE 3, BOX: 268, SEQUIM, WASHINGTON

RICHARD D. AUERBACH, P.O. BOX. 1768; SEATTLE, WASHINGTON

JAMES E. MILNES, 4317 = 50TH AVENUE, N.E. SEATTLE,

WASHINGION

. PAUL R. BIBLER, 15.134 - 38TH AVENUE, N.E.., SEATTLE,

WASHINGTON

END

NW 65994- Docld:32176688- Page 35

---

## Page 36

ROWT DH PLAIN

9033

Hivi

FEDERAL BUREAU Of INVESTIGATION

PIA NITEL S-11-75 GXGOMMUNICATIONS SECTION

DIRECTUR (02-116395)

SEP 1 21975-

DIRINGHAM (66-2204)

TELETYPE

SENSTUDY 75

Assoc. Dir.

Dep.-A.D.-Adm.

Dep.-A.D.-Inva

Asst. Dir.:

Admin.

Comp. Syst.

Ext. Affairs

Files'& Com.

Gen. Inv.

Ident. .

Inspectio]

tatelie.

Laboratory

Plan. & Eval.

Spec, Inv. -_

Training

Legal Coun

Telephone Ro.

Director Sec'y

REDUNITEL 9-5-75.

EFFURÃO IU LUCATE JUN DO PUPÓO LO TO DATE NEGATIVE AND LEGOT

APPEARS THAI ME IS TEMPURARILY AWAY FROM HIS BIRMINGHAM RESIDENCE;

WAEREADUUTS UNKNUWN. EFFURIS IU LOCATE WILL CUNTINUE AND BUREAU

AVISEU PRUMPILY BY NITEL.

LSU FOINQ CLR FUR UNE AND IKS

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREINE DO SALMIRE

DATE

ST. 100

REC-16

0242350--667

Heroes esc

5 SEP 161975

89 SEP 171975

NW 55171

DocId: 32989644

NW 65994 Docld:32176688, Page 36

Page 207

---

## Page 37

LANCAORS SECUN

SEP 1 21975

NRO1D BH CODED

6÷59

A TO

PM

NITEL 9-12-75 GXR

DIRECTOR (62-116395)

FROM

BIRMINGHAM (66-2204)

SENSTUDY 75

Assoc. Dir.

Dep.-A.D.-Adm

Dep.-A.D.-InVeen

Asst. Dir.:

Admin.

Comp. Syst.

fixt. Affairg

Files & Com.

Gen. Inv. -

Ident.

Inspectio?

115

Intell.

1310

Laboratory®

Plan.

& Eval

Spec. Inv.

Errining

(egal Coun.

Lelephone im

Director Sec'y

Closen

REBUNITEL 9-5-75 AND BH NITEL 9-11-75.

JOHN DAVID POPE, JR., 221 REMINGION ROAD, BIRMINGHAM,

ALABAMA, TELEPHONE 205-853-8396, RETURNED FROM VACATION

THIS DATE AND WASSALERTED THAT HE MIGHT BE CONTACTED

BY SSC STAFF EOR INTERVIEW RE MAIL OPENINGS. POPE COULD

NOT RECALL ANY ACTION DURING BUREAU EMPLOYMENT WHICH WOULD

SERVE AS BASIS FOR SSC STAFF CONTACT. HOWEVER, HE WAS MOST

APPRECIATIVE OF BUREAU'S OFFER OF ASSISIANCE AND INDICATED

KE WOULD RESPECI ALL AGREEMENIS WITH THE BUREAU RE CONFIDENTIALITY

OF BUREAU WORK.

END

TOI-X₴

P2636 2-116395-1538

GIVE 17 APR 6 1976

APR 2S

COPY RETAINED

L$G FBIHQ CLR FOR TWO AND IKS

W.4.9543d

Dis (last

57 MAY 1: E 1978

61'

4-288

NW 65994 Docld:32176688 Page 37

---

## Page 38

NR 053 WA PLAIN

1100PM NITEL 9/26/75 PAJ

TO ALL SACS

FROM DIRECIOR

LEGAL ADVICE FOR PRESENT OR FORMER BUREAU EMPLOYEES.

IN RESPONSE TO OUR REGUEST, THS AITORNEY

GENERAL ADVISED IHAI LEGAL REFRESENIATION FOR EMPLOYEES WOULD

BE MADE AVAILABLE FOR PRELIMIMARY ADVICE, SHOULD CASES ARISE

WHERE A FORMER OR PRESENT EMPLOYEE REQUIRES MORE PROTRACTED

AID SUBSIANIIAL LEGAL REFRESENTATION, IT IS THE POSITION OF THE

DEPARTUENT THAI SPECIAL COUNSEL MAY BE RETAINED FOR SUCK

EMPLOYEES AT DEPARTIENI EXPENSE, GUIDELINES ARE BEING

DRAWN BY THE DEPARTUENT TO GOVERN THESE MATTERS

HOWEVER, SHOULD THE DEPARTHENI SUBSEGUENTLY CONCLUDE THAT

SUCH CASES INVOLVE MATTERS OUTSIDE THE SCOPE OF A PRESENT OR

FORMER ENFLOYEE'S DUTIES, OTMER CONSIDERATIONS WOULD APPLY.

ALL LEGAIS ADVISED SEPARATELY.

END .

SSP FBI ATLANTA

TKS/CLR

37

62-49854-45

1ile

NW 65994- Docld:32176688 -Page 38

r. =

---

## Page 39

47CAS WA PLAIN

732PMHITEL 19/9/ 75,GHS

TO ILL SAUS

FROM

DIRECTOP.

INTERV

TUS OF FBI EMPLOYEES BY CONGRESSIONAL COMMITTEES, •

MEMORANDUM TO ALL EMPLOYEES DATSO MAY 285

1975,

CAPTIONED "INTERVIEUS OF FBI EMPLOYEES," ALL EMPLOYEES WERE

ADVISED OF THE NECESSITY OF SECURING FBI HEADCUARTERS APPROVAL

PRIOR TO SUBMIITING TO INTERVIEUS BY REPRESENTATIVES OF CON-

GRESSIONAL COMMITTEES. THE NECESSITY OF SECURING THIS

AP -

PROVAL IC PROMPTED, BY, THE EMPLOYMENI AGREEMENT ALL EMPLOYEES

HAVE SIGNED.

YOU WERE ADVISED THAI CONGRESSIONAL STAFF MEMBERS

WERE CONCUCTING INTERVIENS OF FORMER AND/OR CURRENT EMPLOYDES

AND THAT IHIS SUPDAN HAD PLEDGED ITS COOPERATION WITH CON-

GRESS. OUR COOPERATIVE EFFORIS, OF COURSE, MUST BE CONSISTENT

WITH BUREAU PROCEDURES. I

RECENTLY, UE HAVE HAD ATTEMPTS BY CONGRESSIONAL

COMMITIRE STAFF MEMBERS TO INTORVIEW CURRENT EMPLOYEES WITHOUT

PRIOR CONTACI WITH FBI HEADQUARTERS!

YOU ARE

AGAIN REMINDED

62-2368-10

SEARCHED.

SERIALIZER

_INDEXED.

2 FILED

ОСТ д - 1975

FBI-ALBANY GE

1W 54955 DocId: 32989494 Page 37

NW 65994 Docld:32176688 Page 39

---

## Page 40

PAGE TWO

THAT IF A REPRESENTATIVE OF A CONGRESSIONAL COMMITTEE SHOULD

COIACT A BUREAU EMPLOYEE, THAT EMPLOYEE SHOULD DECLINE TO

RESPORD TO QUESTIONS POSED TO HIM AND ADVISE THE CONGRES-

SIONAL

STAFF MEMBER OF THE

NECESSITY OF RECEIVING FBI

HEADQUARTERS APPROVAL BEFORE RESPONDING TO QUESTIONS.

END

• LVV FBI ALBANY

ACK FOR THPEE

AW 54955 DocId: 32989494

NW 65994 Docld:32176688 Page 40

Page 38

---

## Page 41

Mr. Church's Cover-Up

The

committee is not asking embar-

By William Safire

rassing

questions ever! when answers

are readily available. A couple of

WASHINGON, NOw. 19-0n Oct. 10,

wecks ago, at an open hearing, an

1963, the then-attorney General of the

F.B.i. man inadvertently started to

United States put his personal signa-

blurt out an episode about newsmen

ture on a document that launched and

wno were weritapping in 1962 with

legitimatized one of the nost horren-

the apparent knowleage of Attorney

dous abuses of Federal police power in

Gencral Kennedy. The too-willing wit.

ness' was promptly shooshed into si

In Senator Frank Churci's subcom-

lence, and toid that such information

would be developed only in executive

wiretapping and subse-

session. Nobody raised an eyebrow.

quent unauthorized bugging and al-

That pattern of containment by the

tempted blackmailing of Martin Luther

Church committee is vividly shown by

hing Jr. is being gingerly examined,

with the "investigation" conducled in

such a way

not to unduly em-

of the Kennedy or

ESSAY

Johnson 'Administrations.

With great care, the committee has

focused on the F.B.I. Yesterday, when'

the committee counsel fiest set forth

the result of shuffling through press

clips, it seemed as if no Justice De:

partment had existed in 1962; today,

an F.B.I. witness pointed out that it

ventions which were ordered by Lyn-

don Johnson. Such invasions of politi-

cal headquarters were worse than the

crime committed at Watergate, since

they involved the use of the

but the Church investigators seem to

be determined not to probe too deeply.

the wiretap of Dr. King, and that "the

If r.B.l. documents say that reports

President of the United States and the

were made to specific Johnson aides,

Attorney General specifically discussed

are those men not given the

their. concern of Communist influence

same opportunity to publicly tell their

with Dr. King."

story so avidly given the next Presi-

but the Church committee showed

dent's men? If Lyndon Johnson com-

no. zest for getting further to the Ken-

mitted this impeachable high crime of

nay rood of this precedent to Water-

gate eavesdropping. If Senator Church

were willing to let the chips fall where

they may, he would call some know!-

edgcable witnesses into the glare of

the camera lights and ask them some

questions that have gone unasked for

thirteen years.

lor example, he could call Nicholas

Katzenbach,

Atlorney General

Ken-

nedy's deputy and successor, and ask

what ne knows of the Kennedy de-

cision to wiretap Dr. King. Who at

Justice concurred in the recommenda-

tion? How does the F.B.I. know the !

President was consulled or informed?

After Mr, Katzenbach assumed of-

fice, and the wiretapping continued,

he was told by anary newsmen that!

the F.B.I. was leaking scurrilous in-

formation bout Dr. King. Why did ho

wait for four nionths, and for a thou-

sane telepionic intercentions, to dis

continue the officially approved lap?

Of course, this sort of testimony

vould erode Senato: Church's politicai

base. That is why we do not see ior-

opponenis, who can be brought for-

ward to tell us all about it?

But that would cause embarrass-

ment to Democrats,

and

Senator i

Church wants to embarrass profes-

sional employees

of

investigatory

agencies only. A new sense of Con-

gressional decorum exists,

far from

the sense of outrage expressed in the

Senate

Watergate

commitlee's hear-

ing room. When it is revcaled that the

management of NBC News gave press

credentials to L.B.J.'s spies at the 1964

to and no everybody blushed mor

which network executive made what.

decision under what pressure.

I have been haranguing

readers for years about the double

standard applied in Democratic and

Republican political crimes, and had

hoped the day would come when the

hardbali precodenis set by the Ken-

nedy and Joinson men

before the public in damning detail.

Obviously, Democrat Frank Churen

mer Assistant F.B.I. director Cartha

(Deke)

Deloach,

London

johnson's

personal contact with the F.B.I. in the

wilness chair. What

did President

Jeanson

know aboat the character-

assassination pink ind whon did he

2nC:37

il?

What

conversations took

place between Mir. Deloach and Presi-

dent Jobnsor or the lapping of Dr.

King, or about the lise of the F.B.1. in

any other intrusions into the lives of

shaking indignation is all too silec-

tive; the trail of high-level responsi-

bility for the crimes committed against

Dr. King and othurs is elid. duly going

to be alloved tr iu0l.

Pity. You'd think that after ail the

nation has beer through in the past

few years our poutina leaders would

ase learned that tie aue theng that

brings you down is the aut of cover-

martines figues?

NW 65994-Đõcld:32176688-Page-41

SEARCHED

SERIALIZED.

NON 211977

ASK

80-0-5971

THE NEW YORK TIMES

THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 20th, 1975

PAGE C-41

---

