# DOCID-34451818

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

54954 Date: 11-08-2021

Date :

11/05/98

Page

1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION

FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : INSCOM/CSF

RECORD NUMBER : 194-10012-10040

RECORDS SERIES: DOD-AFFILIATED PERSONNEL AND INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

: ZF000003W - PAGES 78-79

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : USA

FROM : RISSINGER, MARVIN L.

TO : CO, 66TH CIC GP

TITLE : MILITARY LETTER

DATE : 08/07/57

PAGES : 2

SUBJECTS : SLOVODA, VLADIMIR

***

ALLIED DEFECTORS IN BAUTZEN/ SAXONY

***

***

• DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

* *

CLASSIFICATION : CONFIDENTIAL

*W*

RESTRICTIONS : 1B, 2

* I*

CURRENT STATUS : POSTPONED IN FULL

* T*

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 03/20/95

*H*

OPENING CRITERIA :

*D*

COMMENTS : THE REVIEW BOARD VOTED THAT THIS DOCUMENT IS NOT

*R*

BELIEVED RELEVANT TO THE ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT*A*

KENNEDY.

*W*

*A*

*I*

*

*C*

*A*

*R*

*D*

* *

***

***

***

NW 64954 Docld:34451818 Page 1

---

## Page 2

15>

CONFIDENTIAL

UNITED STATES LIAISON OFFICER

LfV, Berlin

ROOM 1119, US MISSION, BERLIN

7 August 1957

SUBJECT: Allied Defectors in BAUTZEN/Saxony (U)

TO:

IO., USCOB

• The following information regarding American and possible American

personnel has been received from the British 309th Field Security Section,

BERLIN:

a) HUTTO, Raymona H. Serial No. RA53117942, US Army, AWOL 28 June 1954

Source met the a/n as a work mate at the VEB-ROBUR-Kraftfahrzeug-

werk (formerly the Phaenom-Werk), who are engaged in the building 'of small

vehicles for the East German Army, also busses and cars. It is not known how

long HUTTO has been working at this factory, but it is believed to be some

HUrto, who is a negro, is believed to be a former student and a native

•of Georgia, USA. He is reputed to be very fond of women, but is not believed

to be contemplating marriage with any of his cohabitants. He appears to be on

extremely good terms with the local populace, from whom he often borrows money

and cigarettes in spite of his earning approximately 400 E/Marks per month.

His financial instability is due to his many female committments.

sidered possible that he would return to the West, but is afraid of the action

that will be taken against him by the US authorities, he does, in fact, believe

that he will be hanged upon his return. He was last seen by source on 14 July

1957.

b) AVENT, Willie, Serial No. RA 53164551. US Army. AWOL 8 March 1956

Source gave a brief description of the a/n and later positively

identified him from photographs. He was last seen

In the Clubhouse, BAUTZEN

in March/April 1957. He is believed to be living in Taschenberg 2.

had little contact with the a/n whom he only knew by sight.

C) ADELANI, inu

Source has heard of this person, who is of negroid extraction and

he is believed to be studying in DRESDEN (ROZ).

]

78

REGRADING CITA CANNCT

BE PRESET BRAINED

CONFIDENTIAL

NW 64954 Docld:34451818 Page 2

---

## Page 3

CONFIDENTIAL

2. It is possible that the recent returnee Robert HOLLAND may have

some knowledge of the individuals mentioned in paragraph 1, page 1.

3. Forwarded as

a matter of interest to your headquarters.

MLR/ BLN44125

Marinet Mininger

MARVIN L. RISSINGER

Berlin

Liaison

Officer

Public Safely Divislea

U.S Mission, Berlia

2

79

REGRADING CATA CANNGT

BE PREDETERMINED

CONFIDENTIAL

NW 64954 Docld:34451818 Page 3

---

