# DOCID-32414127

## Page 1

104-10182-10139

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Hecords Collection Act ot

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note]. Case#:NW

55997 Date: 10.29-2021

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

DRAFT SEGRET

HEMORANDUM OF CONVERSATION

PARIJCIPAVIS: Mitchell Wer Bell

1. Subject phoned ne fron Pouder Springs, Georzia telephone

nuber 5075. Be said be 18 leaving for Mland, Florida tonight.

He said that during the day he can be reached at Franklin 9-6175,

the office of Financial Public Relations Councelors, & firm with

which he is associated. His residence will be at the homeos Jack

112-p20.01

handler, kyland 8-Blle

2. He said that he wants to go to the Dominican Republic on

Friday, 24 July, an ask i could adve him contect i natructions

for use there,

As he is aware, I an required to carry out the

clearance procedures which I mentioned to him earlier before assuning

any responsibilities for his actions, and before informing him of

any operational ratters.

3. Subject saici that he had heard from his cortact in Miard

(prosumably restone) that Batisca ant sone of hia cose assoctates

were preparing to come into the United States Illegally on the

assumption that they will be peruitted to stay as political asylnea.

1. Ja passed the information if etista to C] lsaison and to

Reichhardt in Miani for transmittal. to the immigration people there.

171.172, 03

ise tell

SECRET

lach gentless.

# l: +0. 201-554416

NW 65987 Docld:32414127 Page 1

---

