# DOCID-32271919

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

3/24/201

AGENCY: HSCA

RECORD NUMBER :

180-10143-10115

RECORD SERIES: CIA SEGREGATED COLLECTION

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 28-11-011

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: HSCA

FROM:

CIA

TO :

TITLE :

SUMMARY: PRE-ASSASSINATION MEXICO

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

66000 Date: 11-04-2021

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

03/09/1978

24

CIA, FILES

WIRETAPPING

RUSSIAN EMBASSY IN MEXICO CITY

MEXICO CITY STATION

DOCUMENT TYPE: NOTES

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 1A; 1B

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/14/1995

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

Box 18

NW 66000 Docld:32271919 Page 1

---

## Page 2

I

-109

000109

3/9/78

SECRET

SUmmARy : PrE-ASSASSINAtiON; MEXiCO

Kussian

1. The name of the embassy appears

et the trapot tit grampa

here means one days corerage.

owone phone. this is followed

by the number of the phone

covered. la series of three

two diget numbers) Ihe

nest live dives the date of

.dhenext lins

On some of the transcripts

this o followed ling the red

by the transcript. On most

of the transcripts the cite

to where the conversation

is on the rel appearson

the left hand cal

imm opposite

the referenced conversa =

tion Denerall

than serenally, thetime,

and a notation as to

whether it is an incomin

ov outgoing call, appears

at the begin

ming of the

NW 66000 Docld:32271919 Page 2

---

## Page 3

0110

110

SECRET

2

conversation.

e deal the rangela

than literal transcriptions.

This is more tre of the

spanish than the English

transcripts Some of the

conversations in spanish,

and most of the English

(Russian) ones, appeas to

be literal transcriptions

3. Instart tone transcripts an

in spanish. In these trans.

cripts there are references

to those places on the tape

where a conversation

appears in Russian These

conversations appear later,

trazscribed into English

4 In the English transcripts

(conversation had been

Russian and/ ov English) th

phrase.

сеня помара на

These conversations are not

in the trastststyats we

NW 66000 Docld:32271919 Page 3

---

## Page 4

O11L

SECRET

-3-

examined. Ed and I did a

careful cross-heferencing

check of all transcripts for

o three day period to try to

find those conversations

denatedas"

of thas

to turn an a thos

about this Russ Holmes said.

that he know nothing about

it. He suggested talking to

Anne boodpasture about it

5. Marginal Comments are not

infrequent in the English

transcripts. The comments

deem to be of two tapes.

both of which are setoff

from the text by slosh

Marks De binet type reams

when the tranolator/trans.

type the comment consists,-

generally,

NW 66000 Docld:32271919 Page 4

---

## Page 5

011z

SECRET

4

the secand type is longer

comments on.

the conversa

tion and cover a more

general ares These are usually

prefaced with the word

Comment" Some eramples:

a notation ofalarm in as

participants voice;

- G comments on the marital.

relationship of a Russian

embassy official (basedon

the obseration that the

official always.speaks.in a

condescending tone to

his wife;

c identifying a calleras.

the.sameasaman.in

a prevous conversation;

d substitutions for literal

112

ramscribing.

ramensiling the angument.

notes of background

conversations;

comments pe participantage.

ability

NW 66000 Docld:32271919 Page 5

---

## Page 6

SECRET

0113

5

s. Ed noted that the Spanish

in the transcripts is very

2 The transaripts for september

15 +16, if there are any, are

nat ow the microfilm

examined When asteal about

was probably because

those days were a saturday

and the

not sunday shut dow

II

113

Information from the trans

Aseptember 27, 1963

1 A man calls the soviet

Military Attacke lookina

fora irsa to Odessa. He

srefered to the Consulate

deasks how to get to the

Embassy and isgiven

directions. This conversation

is in the spanish transaristos

and appestorEtto be a paraphrass

NW 66000 Docld:32271919 Page 6

---

## Page 7

SECRET

0114

114

This conversation occured

betueen 10:30 and 10:50.A.M.

2. At 10:37 a man calls the

Sorret Consulate and asks

for the Consul He istold

that the Consul is not in.

The man outside says that

seances des linto

essor. The

person in the embassy

naks him to call backa

11:30. This is in the spanish

transcripts.

3. At 1:25 a man calls the

Consulate and asks for the

Conoul He is told that he

(the Consul) is not in. The

manoutside asks, "when.

tomorrow? "The Consulate

official tells him between

How 5 on Mondays and

Fridays. This is in spanish

-1:05 pm

1. appromated 1s the

sorit lembassy The tells

the man there that the

imerican citizen was o

there at thEckEtbian Embassys

NW 66000 Docld:32271919 Page 7

---

## Page 8

0115

SECRET

115

the one who wanto a visa

to Cuba in transit to Russia

tylers dar that be ants

le at the had Embassy

there saying that it he got

thenget a Cubanone and

seeking the visas wants to

know who he spoke to at

the torret embassy because:

he was assured that there

mould be no problem Thes

puts another man on the

throughnd sylvia goes

him. The tells her to

leave her name and phone

number and says he will

call back This transcript

is in spanish

5. At 4:26 an unidentified dariet

Consulate Stiffial calls

NW 66000 Docld:32271919 Page 8

---

## Page 9

0116

SECRET

Sylvia Duran The Soviet

Official (herenafter 50) asks

11l0

papers from the loviet

Consulate in Mashington, D.C.

and that he wants to go to

the USSR where he plans

to stay fora long time

with his wife who is

Russian. The 50 says that he

has not recieved aw answer

to this man's problem.

from Mashington and it

traditionally takes pour to

five months. The 50. says

that unless they have permis.

sion from the USSR they can't

issue a wisa without getting

paresis, ros as ton

man hasa letter showing that

the member, potion

Cubans cant give him a visa

without LEGftist getting a

NW 66000 Docld:32271919 Page 9

---

## Page 10

0117

SEGRET

9

Sorret visa and the SO

doesn't know what todo

with him now because

they should wait foran

answer from Mashington

silvia. agrees and say

that it is doubtful that

the Cubans will give him

a vria because he doesn't

117

in Cuba while his Sorret

wisa was being processed and

he knew that wauld take

quite a while The SO says

that his urfe could geta visa

n Mashington very quickly

and she could howei

I sent

anythe But is etit

the idas or permission

soon Silvia says itio

clean that they cant give

im a letter because ther

dont know if the ise will

That tossed chess too

hegEcrEtly give visas

NW 66000 Docld:32271919 Page 10

---

## Page 11

0118

SECRET

10

when it is appropriate. Silvia

says that that is what she

will putdown ow therforms

The So pays that they can't

118

you Silvia: No problem This

transcript is in spanish.

6 September 28100 sturday

Consulate at 11:51 A.M. She says

that there is a North Americar

there who had been at the

sorret embassy before The S.

waks her to wait one minut

preceding in spanish, following

"Please see the spanish trans-

cription/ WO while waiting

speaks in Englich to someone

in the background: He said

wait.. Do you speak Russian?

Yes. Why dont you talk to

um? dont know./ MO

takes the phone and says in

broken RSEORE n/ Duas in

NW 66000 Docld:32271919 Page 11

---

## Page 12

0119

SECRET

119

your Embassy and spoke to

your consul. fust as minute

MI takes the phone and

askes MO in english what

does he want.

no: lin Russian/ Please speak

Russian

mI: What else do you want?

no: dwas just now at your

Embassy and they took

my address.

MI: Iknow that.

no: /speaks terrible, hardly

recognizable Russian/ Idid

not know it then. d went to

the Cuban Embassy to ask

them for.my address, because

havest

Ahyoit you come again

and are your address

no the Cubanengetaway."

The spanich transcript

indicates that the MO first

spoke Russian, the MI responded

in englistsecrept then they

NW 66000 Docld:32271919 Page 12

---

## Page 13

0120

120

SECRET

12

both spoke in English. The

transcript in Oswalds

Mexican file is a carton.

C October 1,1963

1. At 10:31 A.m. a man calls the borret

Mo: Hellow. (sic) I wadat your

place last Saturday and D

Mashington and I wanted to

ask you if there was any?

ms ' the tate you to call

thing

no Anothe phone number.

mI: Please urite it down, 15-60-56

and ask fora consul.

mo: Thank you.

MI: Please

(English transcript)

2. A man callo the consul later

There is nota time on the

transcript. a Chronolagorg

of the Mexico Cita

ivesti

gation (WSFERSHI, Vol I.) place

NW 66000 Docld:32271919 Page 13

---

## Page 14

0121

121

SECRET

13

this callat 10:45 Am. The

Oswald Mexican file has

a Xeroxed copy of the

Englich transcripts:

"Inat tax (?) (sic) mo/ the same

sperson who phoned a

lay orso ago and spok

in broken Russian/speak

to Obyedkor

no: Hello, this is hee Oswalo

(phon) speaking, I was at your

place last saturday and

poke to a consul, and

they said that therja send a

delegrated to and out if you

have anything new? But d

don'tremember the name

of that consul

OBY: Kantikor. He is dark/hai

ow skin?

LII: Yea. My name is Quald

OBY: fuat a minute I'll find

out, thes

yet.

LEs: Have they done anything?

OBY: Yes, thegeshEpy that a request

NW 66000 Docld:32271919 Page 14

---

## Page 15

0122

SECRET

14

has been sentout, but

0 On October 3 a man callo the

soviet military Attache and

speaks in broken Spanich and

then English The MO asks fora

visa for Russia and is asked.

tocall the Consulate at 15-60-55.

ten being given the membe

"Ther

issue the

visa there?" and the MI

122

transcript!

II

Info from the transcripts in

Gawald's Mexico file

A 9/22; 10:37 call-Xenot copy

B. 9/27; 4:26 call-

C 9/27; 4: 0 SEll -

NW 66000 Docld:32271919 Page 15

---

## Page 16

AlSO

LAS

TOP.

SECRET

15-

0123

D. 9/21/

_ 4:26 call;

carbon copy taped to another

page..

1. portions underlined in

red. (noton Xerox)

2. Scott urites: "Is it possible

or identify?

3. routed to Hoodpasture

1 and Sebaw

4. Duran ided with "bilvia."

5. filed in doriet Contact

and Oswald BP-date of

filing instructions or

other notations not

indicated.

2. 9/27; 405 call; carbon copy

I. parts underlined in red

2. routed to Scott, Hoodpasture:

an Shaw

3. Jiht instructions to triest

4. no dates indicated

5 "0"

F 9/28 ; 11:51 call, carbon cosy

s parts underlined in reds

3 routed to scott, bood-

123

NW 66000 Docld:32271919 Page 16

---

## Page 17

0124

124

SECRET

16

4. file instruations; to

Soviet Contacts file.

5 nor date...

G. 910/1; 10:31 call; Xerox

H. 10/1;

"*a (?) calljiT

1013j

5. Shave requested the

from Barbaro and am

tempting to locater

SAyS thA

I tram is

IV

Information from cable

traffic to and from Mexico

City, Gawaldo Mexican file, and

his.

HQR'S 20,and WX-7241:

A ON 10/1/63 Mexi 6344 to HQ

reports that Dave Phillips

is on TDY in Mashington, 0.C

B. Mexi 6384, dated 10/3/63, subject

undit act chinology

C DIR 72527, dated 10/4/63, sayo:

"Mo. David Phillips, newly

signest appointed chief

NW 66000 Docld:32271919 Page 17

---

## Page 18

125

SECRET

0125

17

Mexi willarsive, Oct

Fin Miamit for two days

consultation WAVE.... Gor

Mexi: Mo R hillips ETA

Mexi 9 Oct....

D. October 174, 1963

1. Gawalds Mexican file

containsanenvelope @ four

prints of photos of the mmm

The envelope says: "Dups of

unidentified man photos

in the 201" in blue printima

In red script it says: "Photos

ofunidentified person.on

entering say embassy.

2 in 1967, alpeasant prepara

of these plotos an 1+4 October

as does post-assassination

cable traffic and Mexi 6453

which refers to anar

unidentified man entering

the Embassy on one October

3. Russ Holmes recently

informed me that the correct

dates are 2 and 4 October.

SECRET

NW 66000 Docld:32271919 Page 18

---

## Page 19

0126

SECRET

+18=

(5-1-A)

E. On 8 October 1963, Mexi 453, is

Bent to + an lt orignited with

Officer (A.O.) was Barbara Manell

nathe Releast Splica reports

was Win Scott

swalds call to Objedkor

ow/ Oct 5; Oswald's statement

that he had been there on the

28th; and the ino

Nap hola malaya

beAmericanentering.

dovenb

1216 hours, leaving 12220w1

recedinghairline, baldin

tap. Wore

bhakisand sport

shint "There is nato routing

slipon this cable

F HQ responded to Mexi 4453 with

DIR 74830(7-2) on on October October1963.

126

Thomas Karamessines This

cable provisola summary of

NW 66000 Docld:32271919 Page 19

---

## Page 20

0127

SECRET

19

bio info on Quald includin

his DOB, date of defection, descrip-

tion, his return to the 1.5., and

his marriage. It says that the

stay in the USSR "clearly hade

maturite eat an outi

recieved by H. Q was a May

962 meno that reported that

it had been determined that LO.

uas stilla 1.5 citizenand

that he and his family had

been given visas to return to

the U.S. Mexico was instruated

to pass Ostrald's DPOB, fact

of defection, and descristion to

the FBI, Navy, It NS and the

Embassy locally AQ said

that it as passing th the

ident data to FBI, State

Mally it a lie go calle

The routing slip in the

Mexican files indicate that

this cable went to bott, White,

Foodpasture, Manell, "Paul"

127

NW 66000 Docld:32271919 Page 20

---

## Page 21

SECRET

0128

20

"He should ask HQ for photo No?"

barbara Manell noted that the

local dissemination requested

was done on 15 October. Scott

requested that a "P"file be

opened on hee Henry swald

and put all data we have

into it. Photos?"

G. On 9 Oatober 1963 Meri l468

informed HQ that Meri urgently

needed new tape recorders for

daradoff, Floryan Randalph

breaking.

transporting them for repair

was a security problem

+ The October 10th HQ disseminatio

iaison; A.0: L.N. GA/lACy

(C/WH/R); Coordinated in draft

-NoTE: Thie

S"CI/S/G/Egerter " and "SR/CI/

i an at he sable as do not to thee

Departments of State and Navy

and the FBI. The first para

128

graph of tEt able says: On.Get

NW 66000 Docld:32271919 Page 21

---

## Page 22

0129

129

SECRET

21

1963 a reliable and sensitive

source reported that an Amer-

ican male, who identified

himself as hee Oswald, contacted.

the Sariet embassup in Mexico.

my inguining whether the

anynew

concerning a telegram which had

been sent to Mashington. The

American wao described as

approximately 35 years old; with

an athletic build, about six feet

tall, with a receding hairline.

The cable goes on to say that

it is believed that the main is

identical to hee tenny Oswald

anolgives bio info on hi

(DIR 74673, dated 10/10/63)

J. On 10/15/63 Mexi 6534 twas dated

Crig.+ A.0: Herbert Manell

R.O: Min Scott.

ref: DIR 74830

It said. "Plo pouch photo

Qowald "Dhave not forenda

response to this cable in

either the Mexico cable traffic

chrono or Osuald's Merican

file PhanEREpked Russ Halmes

NW 66000 Docld:32271919 Page 22

---

## Page 23

0130

SECRET

22

to provide the dispatcher

o and from Mexico betweer

the dates of 10/15 and ip/26 Russ

said that this night not get

all the pouched materials

because HQ sometimes used.

what he called "an unattributable.

pouch" This cable does not

haare am RS attatched

« Calls miginating unth T WAR

wassenton the 2tth

A.0: L. N. Mallary; R.O: Jane Roman

REf: 01R74673.

Pot a dated that asson

as possible tuo copies of

the most recent photogroh

130

the atten to in tence ly

and Subject are the same

individuals.

1. On 16 October 1963 Min Scott

wrote a memo to the Ambassa

dor's contastripith the Lovemb

NW 66000 Docld:32271919 Page 23

---

## Page 24

SECRET

23

0131

It reported that the infor-

mation was frama ver

sensitive, usually reliable

source; that a man IDing

himself as he Oswald had.

contacted the lovembow

October; that he had

previoudly contasted then

on 28 sept.; that he had

talked to Kostikov-about.ev

p reply to his request; 10'5

DOB; hisdefection;anda

promise to passonam

additional infor obtained.

(9-5 FoiA) Ihe memo says, in

parisoffice determined that

swald had been at the

Soviet embassy on 28.

131

membevof the Consular

section, inorder to lear

if the toret embassy, ha

recieved a reply from

Vastinatan Concer

arguest see are ne els

NW 66000 Docld:32271919 Page 24

---

## Page 25

SECRET

000132

2Y

contermation sh regent

eorigina

I this memo went sto

The Ambassador.

The Minister

Casinselor for Political Affairs,

Regional Security Officen

copies to:

hegat

Naval Altache

I+ NS.

Oswald "P"

50-2-4-1 (5wittEN.OVER 1)

LiAlSon with hegAt.

NAvAl AttAchE.

Laving trouble locating these

them available if and when

he can find the

132

SECRET

NW 66000 Docld:32271919 Page 25

---

