# DOCID-32300708

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/28/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10277-10043

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

92-2918-1, 2

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

KLEBE, ALBERT E. JR.

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

65994 Date: 11-09-2021

DATE: 12/23/1957

PAGES:

30

SUBJECTS :

SMO, BKG, REL, ASSOC, RCK, DESCR, EDUCATION, EMP,

RES, TRA, GAMBLING ACT, B/F INT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4; 11(a)

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 01/29/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF IRS, INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC MEMO, RPT, INDEX PAGE 25-26

v9.1

NW 65994 Docld:32300708 Page 1

14

---

## Page 2

Quor

Cer

PG 92-228

MANNARINO stäted that it later became clear to him and his

associates that they would not be permitted to operate siot

machines in Pennsylvania, and that therefore they had

attempted to dispose of their machines in an attempt to

recoup some of the money invested in them. MANNARINO stated

that they had forwarded slot machines and were going to forward

additional machines to ALBERI ARDURA, and NORMAN ROTHMAN, WhO

were associated in operating the Tropicanna Night Club in

Havana, and that in addition to using the machines in the club,

the Cuban Government had granted them permission to place these

machines in various spots throughout the island, in much the

same fashion as the slot machines had formerly been used in the

United States. SAM MANNARINO admitted that he would have an

interest in this operation.

On March 27, 1957, I-13 stated wat on March 26, 1957; the

Nu Ken Novelty Company shipped 50 slot machines

via Eastern

Airlines Air Freight from New Yensington to Miami, Fla.; that

these machines had been marked and labeled in accordance with

all requirements of the Johnston Law; and Informant did not

believe these machines would be seized.

T-13 indicated the

machines would eventually be shipped into Havana.

4. Dice Games

on December 11,

1952, To advised that all types or gamoling

with the exception of telephone bookmaking had ceased in

Pittsburgh and Allegheny County, Pa.

Informant said the only

game going was a skin and dice

game

in wilmerding, Pa., by

JOSEPH ROSA, a Lieutenant of the MANNARINO boys from New

Kensington.

Informant advised this game was considered safe

because ROSA had complete local protection.

ion September 15, 1953, MIKE ZERVIS, operator, City Newsstand,

New Kensington,

who has furnished reliable information in the

past, advised

SAS JOHN H. BROOKS and MICHAEL MCCANN that a

large crap game was currently operating at eth and suh streets,

New Kensington, under the management of MIKE HAGEDARIS and

controlled by the MANNARINO organization. ZERVIS stated that 11

the bank maintained during this crap game was said to contain

$50, 000.00.

ZERVIS further stated that in his opinion gambling

was wide open in New Kensington under the control of the

MANNARINO organization.

- 15 -

NW 65994 Docld:32300708 Page 2

---

## Page 3

PG 92-228

5. Numbers

On August 21, 1946, GEORGE MESSER,

former partner in coin

machine distributing business, and in numbers business with

JOHN LAROCCA, advised SAS THOMAS A MCQUAIDE and JOHN H.

DEVLIN that JOHN LeROCCA was then doing business as the

Coin Machine Distributing Conpany: located on Nosth Craig

Street, Pittsburgh, In which his partner was SAM MANVARINO,

On October 27, 1955, I-T advised that numbers were being

booked at the 9th Street Newsstand in New Kensington, and that

the informant was almost certain the numbers were turned into

SAM and KELIY MANNARINO.

on May 10, 1955

MIKE LERVIS advised SA PORIELLA that the

bookmaking operations recently disturbed by the Internal

Revenue Service, had moved to the Laetus Club, located on

5th Avenue, hear the Kenmar. Hotei, and that in his opinion

the operation was strictly MinaRINo controlled, ZERViS

furnished the identity of telephone numbers through which

were placed, and identified "ANT DePHILIIPS" of New

Kensington, as the individual who handled the telephone

for the MANNARINOS.

ZERVIS further stated that the

MANNARINOs controlled the numbers racket in New Kensington:

E.

LEGITIVATE ENTERPRISES

Legitimate Activities fenerally

On June 8, 1953, when interviewed by SA PORdELTA, GABRIEL and

Not Convo a Load that the and and tea the ken tro tang

and that they had been able to corner most.of

she can i veng tr ma thing ba then in the New kensington

They stated that from these enterprises plus their

real estate holding they had sufficient income

and did not

to engage in gambling on a regular basis to earn a

livelihood.

On February 16, 1954, SAM MANNARINO advisEd SA PORTELLA that

he and his brother CABRIEL were then operating

legally, and

that every enterprise they were in could stand

scrutiny

ol any federal investigative agency:

MANNAFIND, in discussing

his investments, disclosed that he had interests in las egas.

Nevada, and his conversation indicated that he had interests

in the Esquire Apartments, and they Dell-Peak Motel In that city.

- 16 -

NW 65994 Docld:32300708 Page 3

---

## Page 4

PG 92-228

INFORMANT PAGE

T-1 is Local Draft #5, New Kensington,

were reviewed by an unidentified agent in 1944.

records of which

T-2 1S LEONARD J. PALESTA, Assistant United states Attorey,

Pittsburgh, Pa.

who furnished information orally to SA ALBERt E.

•KLEBE. IreS On

December 19, 1957, and whose identity was

concealed at his requsst.

T-3 is Internal Revenue Service, Infornation received on

November 23, 1953, was furnished by SA JACK SCHWARIZ, Intelligence

Division, Internal Retenue Service, Pittsburgh, üo Se JOHN S

PORTELLA.

Information received in May, 1955, from Internal Revenue Service

was contained In Reviewer-Conferee G. WILSON SPICELER's report

dated April 18, 1955, regarding ANDREW J. SUSUE report.

I-4 is POI RUDY SOKOL who furnished information to SA JOHN S.

PORTELLA on November 22, 1957=

T-5 is PG-545-C, who furnished infomation on dates listed below

to SA PORTELIA.

6/6/533

6/8/53;

1/10/553

11/24/55;

1/23/56;

4/16/56;

I-6 is formez PG-509-C, who furnished information on dates listed

below to SA PORTELIA.

12/11/52;

9/4/54;

7/30/53;

9/14/54;

9/24/55.

-

23 -

NW 65994 Docld:32300708 Page 4

---

## Page 5

PG 92-228

I-7 is former PG-511-C, who furnished information on dates listed

tO SA PORTELIA.

10/51.

9/2/54

10/27/55.

I-8 IS DOROTHY DELO SEWELTZERS ECS

Salt Lake City, who

Lurnisned Intormation on Apu.

19, 1955, to an unidentified

agent of salt Lake City Office.

T-9 is Legal Attache, Havana, Cuba: Information reported as

set torth in elbespuren deuter to birector.

october 5, 1953,

captioned, "SAMUEL MANNERINO, WaS., GITF, (I'Op Hoodlum Program)."

I-10 is PG-561-C, who furnished information on September 11,.

1957, to SA CARL Lo SHERWOOD,

I-I1 1s PG-565-S, who furnished information to SA JOHN R.

ACKERLY on December 6, 1954.

I-12 1s PG-564-0, who furnished information to SA NORMAN I.

THOMPSON on March 25, 1955.

T-13 is GENEVIEVE MORENO, subject's personal

secretary,

1263 3rd Avenue, New Kensington, Pa.,

whose identity was

concealed at her request and who furnished information to

SA PORTELLA on March 27, 1957.

I-14 is former PCI LUCILLE KELLEY, who furnished information

on March 4, 1956, to SA JOHN R. ACKERLY.

T-15 is Dun and Bradstreet, Pittsburgh, records of which were

reviewed by an unidentified employee in 1944.

- 24 -

NW 65994 Docld:32300708 Page 5

---

## Page 6

PG 92-228

Name

Mannarino, Gabriel.

Mannarino, George.

Mannarino,

Joseph.

Mannarino,

Kelly.

Mannarino, Minnie.

Mannarino,

Rose.

Margiotti, Charles..

May, Andrew

Merola, Joseph.

Messer, George.•

Mills Distributing Company..••

Mother Kelly's...

Page

3, 4, 7,9, 10, 11, 12, 13,

14,16, 17, 18,19,20,21

• 2,4

• 7,12,13,16

•

=

18

. 18

'09

•7,8,16

7

8,13

New Kensington Jockey Club...

New Kensington Sales and Rental Corporation.•

NuKen Novelty Company..

• •

• 1, 2, 13, 14, 15, 16,17,20,21

Palm Beach Real Estate Company.•.

Polidoni, Minnie.••

Ripepi

Antonio.

Ripepi, Kay.....

Ripept, Tony..

.8,11

Rosa, Frank J..0......

Rosa, Guiseppe (Joseph)....

Rosa, Joseph.:

Rothman, Norman. ...•••

Sam, Albert.........•

Sam, William.....0.••°

Sams, Wi111am........:

Sans Souel Club.....•••

9,15

10,14,15

• 20

•7,14,19

.. 19

8, 10,11,13

Sargent, Annetta......

Sobolak, John W..

Sobolak, Lloyd J..

stein, Harry..

Tannas, Tom. •

Teemer, Charles F....

• 7,18

10,11

20

20

Theatrical Mutual Association.

Tropicanna Night Club..

United Dryer Corporation.

Valenti, Frank.••

• 00

Valenti, Frank Joseph.

Valenti, Stanley..

Zervis, Mike.

Zogg, F. W..

Zogg, Rea:

15,1

• 7,20

7

- 26

NW 65994 Docld:32300708 Page 6

---

