# DOCID-32302483

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD. NUMBER:

124-10281-10203

RECORD_SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE_NUMBER: CR 105-123828-19

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, WMFO

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 10/11/1963

PAGES: 18

SUBJECT:

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

07/10/1998

Redact

Heleased under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act ol

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

65994 Date: 11-03-2021

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

COMMENTS:

RESTRICTIONS:

Consultation

JFK Act 6 (4)

INC LHM, REFERRED TO DEA

NW 65994 Docld:32302483 Page 1

---

## Page 2

Det 11 8ca$ 7H 805 PH°G3

REC'E

rec. Recording 11-7-03.

10-11

DOM INTELL DIV. 02

sit

pies made

NA.22 31/11€

Ост 18

6 10 PM '63

(S00, Bus 12e #32-127200).

TOINE

# 213,98₴

CIVIDA

E. 0. 4.

12356

DIT.

4-26-90

ort

3-1 is cup. sp

ar agine

NW 65994 Docld:32302483 Page 2

---

## Page 3

•CONTAIMED

Das

Let 7A6

I-TP

MM

AIRTEL

SECRETI

10/11/63

Silas

SID:

402

Mr, Tolson

Mr. Belfant.

Mr. Mohr..-

Mr. Casper

Mr. Callahan

Nir. Conrad

Mra trans

Mr.

Gais

Mr. Ross

Mr.

Stall

Mit Tav

Mr. Trottyr

Meie Agon

Miss Holmes

Miss Gandy

TO:

FROM:

DIRECTOR, FBI

SAC, WEO (105-55428) (P)

AMERICANS FOR FREMON

(Americanos Por Libertad)

IS - CUBA - HAITI;

NEUTRALITY MATTERS

00: MM

classiftee

DOR (57L)

Declassity/o:

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASIAN

MWAN AND/OR.

-OF CIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT. JM

2 _coptos mato 0. 2648127

o love as me

ReBuairtel dated 9/25/63.

MSCA re= S.P. Hendshing

Enclosed to the Bureau are 12 copies and to Miami

and San Francisco two copies each, and to Cincinnati, Detroit,

OTHE

New York, and Tampa one copy each of a LHM dated and captioned

as above.

Informant mentioned in the enclosed LHM is CHARLES R.

ASHMANN, who was interviewed in the presence of Bureau of

Narcotics Agent EUGENE MARSHALL. ASHMANN is further identified

in the LiM.

Indices WFO reflect that the Bureau and Miami are

in possession of all pertinent information regarding ALEXANDER

RORKE, GERALD PATRICK HEMMING, and JOE GARMAN as well as individuals

possibly identical with JERRY

BUCHANAN and ROBERT AYALA

(phonetic) • HUNTINGTON HARTFORD, SAM BENTON, Doctor OSTROFF,

CLAIRE CHENNAULT, EDWARD LOMBARDO, EDWARD ARTHUR, and HOWARD

DAVIS are not possible to identify in WrO files.

contain numerous references to JAMES BUCHANAN of the "Miami

Herald" but none to JAMES BUCHANAN of the "Pompano Beach Sun-

Sentinel."

DECLASSIFIED BY 5668 5106KS2

SUNE

1- Cincinnati (Enc. 1) (Info)

Detroit (Enc. 1)

Miami (Encs.

2) (RM)

(RANPO) (RI)

REC- 3

1- New York (Enc. 1) (Info) (RM)

105-123608-21

12-

San Francisco

(Encs'.

Tampa (Enc. 1) (Info) (RM)

2) ARM) (AM)Ju

WFO

Copy 10: CrA/Stato l5l4

3 NOV I

1963

JES: pac

(12)

O:11/GS/ACSI

FOLLIES

C. C. Wick by routing

Date 10-1/763 by l/ J09%

SEXIET

AIRTEL

001 11

gc07pk

802 L1.03 / retained fee

destruction fertilis

NW 65994 Docld:32302483 Page 3

---

## Page 4

WFO 105-55428

CONPIVENIIAL

ASHMANN noted that early in his involvement with

anti-CASTRO organizations he had been furnishing information

but sace ne cat deartment of state (USDS),

ASHMANN*

advised and it was confirmed by MARSHALL

that when he was approached by ARTHUR and BUCHANAN and made

aware of their plans, he advised MARSHALL of all the details

and told him he did not want to represent the group but

considered. them foolhardy enough

to cause serious trouble.

He said he would represent the group if the U. S. Government

would be interested in their activities, but wanted assurances

from MARSHALL that all government agencies which should know of his

cooperation would be so advised. He was told by MARSHALL to

go ahead with the organization and that MARSHALL would inform

the proper government agencies.

The Bureau and Miami are

aware of subsequent developments in this regard.

The same circumstances surrounded ASHMANN'S involve-

ment with BENOIT when he advised MARSHALL Of BENIT's request.

ASHMANN also said that he considered his action in

this regard to be a revelation of privileged information

between lawyer and client, but felt that efforts of the instant

organization were of a serious enough nature to affect the

policy or security of the U. S. and that the information con-

cerning the organization's plans properly belonged in the

hands of U. S. authorities.

He emphasized that at any time

matters of such seriousness come to his attention, the fact

that it is privileged information would not prevent him from

furnishing it to the proper authorities.

Both ASHMANN and MARSHALL requested that AHSMANN'S

identity be concealed.

ASHMANN made his request because

he felt disclosure of his identity would affect his represent-

ation of and dealings with anti-CASTRO groups and MARSHALL

made his request because ASHMANN is "in the middle of a big

narcotics case," and working in the interest of the Bureau

of Narcotics.

BENOIT advised ASHMANN that he had previously been

lin contact with a CIA representative named "CHARLEY" in the

'Bahamas and had received some financial support from CIA:

while .1n the Bahamas.

later told ASHMANN that "CHARLEY"

from CIA had contacted him just after his arrival in Miami.

but he did not disclose the details of this contact.

- 2 -

CCHISCIAL

NW 65994 Docld:32302483 Page 4

---

## Page 5

70-40

WFO 105-55428

COMPANTIAL

SECRET

On 9/27/63, SA CHARLES M. BEALI, JR.,

was advised

by a representative of CIA that no pertinent identifiable

organization

On 9/24 and 10/2/63, a representative of the

Security Office, USDS, advised SA KENNETH J. HASER that the

files of that office contained no information identifiable

with EDWARD ARTHUR or Americans for Freedom, respectively.

On 10/7/63, a file was located on an individual

possibly identical with EDWARD LOMBARDO.

WFO will review the above file at the USDS Security

fice and if identical with EDWARD LOMBARDO of instant

organization, will furnish information to Bureau and Miami.

18

San Francisco is requested to review indices,

contact logical

sources, and furnish Miami all available

background information regarding Major CLAIRE A. CHENNAULT,

723 - 15th Avenue, San Francisco 18, Calif.

Miami is requested to verify whether SAM BENTON

.1s,

in fact, an agent for BENOIT and subject to registration

under the Foreign Agent's Registration Act of 1938, as amended.

WFO does not recommend further contacts with

ASEMANN, however, information voluntarily furnished by

ASHMANN should be accepted inasmuch as he stated his intention

to advise, through MARSHALL, of any further pertinent develop-

ments.

It is the opinion of WFO that ASHMANN will furnish

information regarding pertinent developments. Inasmuch as

ASHMANN feels instant organization is dying &

natural death,

his coverage and the coverage afforded by Miami 639-S

should adequately inform Bureau of activities of instant

organization and no further active investigation, other than

that set out above, is recommended at this time.

The enclosed LHM is classified "Confidential"

inasmuch as the information contained therein could result

in identification of an informant of another government

investigative agency

-3-

NW 65994 Docld:32302483 Page 5

---

## Page 6

WFO 105-55428

CONDENTAL

SECRET

Concerning assurances that ASHMANN wanted that his

cooperation would be made known to all government agencies

which should know of his cooperation, it was pointed out

that no such assurances could be given him and, further,

that concealment of his identity made it impossible to

advise other agencies of his cooperation.

ASHMANN was additionally advised that the Bureau

appreciated his cooperation but that his actions in this

regard had to be completely voluntary and that he could

be directed or guided

in any way.

EAT CONNEAL

NW 65994 Docld:32302483 Page 6

---

## Page 7

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

CONFIDENTIAL

In Reply, Please Rejer 10

File No.

WASHINGTON 25, D. Co

October 11, 1963

AMERICANS FOR FREEDOM

(Americanos Por Libertad)

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA - HAITI;

NEUTRALITY MATTERS

SP8-Mar/ nick

111844 5PK

DECLASSIFIED BYSPgut

ON 4-26-20

# 203,982

On October 5, 1963, a confidential informant,

familiar with certain aspects of Cuban exile activity,

furnished the following information concerning captioned

organization and its legal counsel, Charles RyAshmann

1935, at New York City, and

a graduate st the university of Florida and the Cumberland

University Law School in Tennessee, is an attorney with

offices in the Dupont Plaza Building, and residence at 3301

Northeast 5th Avenue, apartment 911, both Miami, Florida.

інших уток ковикоте.01

Ashmann was an

Assistant to Senator George A.

Smathers in 1956 and 1957, and formerly an Assistant Attorney

General for the State of Florida as well as formerly a law

partner in private practice with former United States District

Attorney in Florida James Guilmartin.

Ashmann also represented Harris and Company

Advertising, Incorporated, in litigation against the Govern-

ment of Cuba.

This involved approximately one half million

dollars owed

• to Harris and Company by the Cuban Government.

Ashmann's efforts on behalf of Harris and Company resulted

in his effectively attaching 21 Cuban airplanes and other

property,

the net proceeds of which satisfied Harris and

Company's claim against the Government of Cuba.

CONFSDENTIAL

Group 1

Excluded

from automatic

downgrading and

declassification

NW 65994 Docld:32302483 Page 7

---

## Page 8

CONFIDENTIAL

V.S.

AMERICANS FOR FREEDOM

As a result of publicity surrounding his efforts

on the part of Harris and Company, disgruntled Cubans

started to furnish him information concerning additional

Cuban Government property in the United States subject to

seizure in the Harris case.

From June to September of 1962, Ashmann was

contacted by leaders of several anti-Castro groups who

wanted legal counsel on matters pertaining to their forma-

tion, fund raising activities,

immigration matters, and

problems surrounding their dealings with various United

States Government agencies.

During this period, Ashmann represented a group

whose name the informant could not furnish, which was located

at No Name Key, Florida, and which was composed of approximately

15 to 25 ex-United States servicemen headed by one Gerald

Patrick Hemming, also known as the "Bearded Giant of No Name

Key."

" This group, according to the informant, was a training

group which afforded training to other anti-Castro groups

and operated under the auspices of or at least with the

knowledge of United States Government agencies.

This group was arrested for violation of the

Neutrality laws and Ashmann succeeded in having the caser/.

dismissed on a technicality. The informant noted that two

key members of this group were one Howard Davis, who handled

liaison with other anti-Castro groups, and one Joe Garman, +

the son of a wealthy man from Kentucky.

Garman is believed.

by the informant

to have, through his family, some

congressional influence.

The informant recalled that Garman's

car had been confiscated by Customs authorities and

congressional influence, which the informant could not

further identify, was brought to bear to have Garman's car

returned to him.

As far as the informant knows, the car

was never returned to Garman.

Ashmann next represented some members of Alpha

66,

an anti-Castro group, who were picked up by the United

States Coast Guard while attempting to launch a raid on

Cuba. Ashmann also did work for other anti-Castro organi-

zations known as/Commando Li, Cuban Anti-Communist

t Army,

and Second National Front,

as well as a few other groups,

the identity of which the informant could not recall.

Primarily, Ashmann's efforts on behalf of these groups centered

about convincing the United States authorities that whatever

these groups did outside the three-mile continental limit

of the United States was not within the jurisdiction of

United States services or agencies.

- 2 -

CONFIDENTIAL

NW 65994 Docld:32302483 Page 8

---

## Page 9

CONFIDENTIAL

AMERICANS FOR FREEDOM

About four months ago, some of the members of the

Cuban Anti-Communist Army under the military leadership of

one Commander Duque, not further identified, were arrested

by British authorities in the Bahama Keys.

Jerry Buchanan,

a United States citizen and ex-convict, was arrested with

this group.

Ashmann was approached by

the Miami representa-

tive of the group, name not recalled, and was asked to.

represent the group.. Ashmann went to the Bahamas and was

successful in working out an agreement with the British

authorities whereby the members of the group received a

nominal fine and were released. The informant noted that

when Ashmann arrived in the Bahamas, Jerry Buchanan had

already been released on low bail through the efforts of

the United States Consulate.

Bahavin

Also in the Bahamas, at the time Ashmann was

securing the release of the above group, was James Buchanan,

Jerry, and

to cover the story.

Ashmann met both James and

Jerry Buchanan during the above period. According to the

• informant, James Buchanan is the author of a long series of'

articles critical of the present Administration's efforts

in regard to Cuba.

The informant has learned that in almost every case

in which Ashmann has represented Cuban exile groups, only

his expenses were paid and little or no actual fee was

collected.

In the case of the group from No Name Key,

Ashmann did received a fee.

iS

Following Ashmann's return to the United States from

the Bahamas, after securing the rélease of Commander Duque

by Ashmann since, became associated with a new group, which

subsequently turned out to be captioned organizatione

About the third week in August of 1963, James

Buchanan sent one Captain Arthur to see Ashmann.

In his

first

contact with Ashmann, Arthur identified himself as

Edward Arthur, a United States citizen and veteran and

puri

B.appie x 1437-1935

-3-

CONFIDENTTAL

NW 65994 Docld:32302483 Page 9

---

## Page 10

CONFIDENTIAL

Flit

AMERICANS FOR FREEDOM

anti-communist. He indicated that he headed a group of men

who felt that if the United States would not handle the Cuban

situation,

they would do it themselves. Arthur showed

Ashmann clippings from various small town newspapers concern-

ing his activities and

Ashmann told the informant that from

the clippings, he received the impression that Arthur

apparently traveled about the United States visiting small

towns, where he made himself available to the press for

interview. During these interviews, Arthur apparently

represented himself to be active in the fight against

communism.

Arthur reportedly told Ashmann he was interested

in forming a legal organization incorporated as a non-profit

corporation with the purpose of raising funds and conducting

raids on Cuba:

Ashmann explained to Arthur that a corporation

could be formed only for legal purposes and that such raids

would be illegal.

Arthur returned the following day with one

Edward Lombardo, and Robert Ayala (phonetic).

This meeting

was much the same as the first meeting between Ashmann

and Arthur, but they did indicate they wanted to return with

James Buchanan to see Ashmann.

About two evenings later, Arthur, Lombardo, and

Ayala returned with Jamés Buchanan.

Buchanan indicated that

he had been in touch with the "Gore people", his employers,

and some wealthy people in Fort Lauderdale, Florida, whom

he did not identify. ' Buchanan said the Gore people and the

people from Fort Lauderdale were interested in backing the

captioned ogranization by financially supporting their raids

against Cuba.

On this occasion, Buchanan also discussed

Claire Chennault and said that arrangements had been made for

Chennault to announce his membership in the organization

Chennault, according to Buchanan, was

in touch with a group of former United States jet aces

the Korean conflict and who were upset over

United States' inactivity with regard to Cuba and were

prepared to go along with Chennault.

Chennault was to be

the leader of the air group and reportedly had 12 planes,

type not known,

available.

-4-

CONFIDENTIAL

NW 65994 Docld:32302483 Page 10

---

## Page 11

CONFIDENTIAL

AMERICANS FOR FREEDOM

to be used for the support his name would elicit in fund

raising activity and for his contacts in securing planes

and pilots.

Buchanan, on this occasion, requested Ashmann

to form a corporation, chartered in Florida,

under the name

Americans For Freedom, Incorporated.

The following day, Buchanan advised Ashmann that

Chennault was actually coming to Florida:

• On the next day, Buchanan and Arthur met with

Ashmann.

Buchanan outlined the purpose of the group as tony

Conneseliminate communism in the Caribbean.

castro, Prime Minister of Cuba, and Juanybosch,.fl.

President of the Dominican Republic, as communists.

Although

they did not regard President Francois Duvalier of Haiti as

a communist, they did regard him as undesirable and wanted

him out of Haiti. They wanted the action of their group

Tto enable the Cuban and Haitian people to free themselves,

but made no mention of the people of the Dominican Republic

freeing themselves.

The plan of the group as outlined by Buchanan was

that Chennault was to arrange for planes and pilots.

planes were to be P-51 fighter types and an unspecified type

of fighter bomber.

The planes were to be given markings

of the Dominican Republic Air Force and used for an air

strike at Haiti immediately following which they would

continue directly to Cuba and bomb that country.

The strike against Haiti was to be on the National

Palace and at a time when President Duvalier would be in

the Palace.

There was no specific Cuban target mentioned.

In their planning, the group reasoned that Haiti and Cuba

would believe that the Dominican Republic was responsible

and the end

result would be open conflict in the Caribbean

with Cuba and Haiti taking action against the Dominican

intervention by the United States or, at the minimum, create

such

- 5 -

CONFIDENTIAL

NW 65994 Docld:32302483 Page 11

---

## Page 12

CONFIDENTIAL

AMERICANS FOR FREEDOM

forced to intervene with its armed forces. Further plans

called for the assistance of the Cuban underground in

selling the idea that the DR was to blame.

At the same

time, liaison with other unnamed Cuban anti-Castro groups

would have these groups add to the chaos in any way they

could.

Arthur was to maintain contact with the Haitian

underground in order to pinpoint the time of the attack

at a time when President Duvalier was in the Palace and

following the strike against Haiti and Cuba would take a

group of trained guerrilla fighters to Cuba to work with the

Cuban underground in general sabotage work.

Ashmann revealed to the informant that during a

subsequent phone contact with Chennault who was in California,

Chennault verified the plans of the group as set out above.

Chennault additionally told Ashmann that the necessary planes

were available in California and were "dirt cheap." Chennault

estimated that the planes could be obtained for approximately

$700 a piece.

According to the informant, Ashmann received

the impression that the $700 would constitute merely a deposit

or down payment and that Chennault was not worried over sub-

sequent payments because the planes would be used almost

immediately. No concern was evident over the possible loss

of the planes in combat. Chennault considered the initial

strike against Haiti to be an inexpensive operation inasmuch

as the planes available were fully armed and also because

financial support for subsequent action against Cuba was

expected

from whoever took over in Haiti.

This, of course,

was based on the premise that President Duvalier would

collapse or as a result of the bombing be killed in the

initial strike against the Palace.

According to Chennault, getting the above planes

out of the United States would be accomplished by leasing

them or selling them to a dummy South American organization,

following which

they would be flown to Guatemala, Honduras,

or Costa Rica: Costa Rica was considered as a favorable

they would bes

launching point for the attack.

Chennault additionally advised that he felt the

above

outlined plan of attack would be a

simple thing and

=6 -

CONFIDENTIAL

NW 65994 Docld:32302483 Page 12

---

## Page 13

CONFIpENTIAL

AMERICANS FOR FREEDOM

stated also that he had the necessary pilots available.

Chennault spoke of the possibility of Buchanan getting

few thousand dollars together for Chennault's use. His

approach to the money question, according to the informant,

gave Ashmann the impression that he was broke.

Continuing, the informant said that Buchanan, a

short time later, told Ashmann of his intention to see

Clement

/Benoit for the purpose of making arrangements with the Haitian

underground for the assassination of President Duvalier.

Buchanan, at this time, told Ashmann that the Gore newspaper

chain was willing to pay his expenses, if necessary, for travel

to Haiti, and the DR, in order to arrange the assassination of

Duvalier.

HaiT

Bahama Filed

member o

Clement Benoit is a self-described leader of

Mouvement Patriotique Haitien (MPH),

a group of Haitian

exiles in Nassau,

Bahamas.

Coincidental with Buchanan's stated intention to

see Benoit, Benoit was ordered deported from the Bahamas by

the British authorities. Buchanan said he was unable to

get the necessary funds for travel to the Bahamas and asked

Ashmann to go to the Bahamas and assist Benoit. Ashmann

explained to Buchanan that he could not do this unless he

was invited by Benoit and Buchanan indicated that he would

handle this matter.

A short time later, Ashmann received

a phone call from Benoit who asked if Ashmann would be

willing to help his anti-Duvalier group.

Benolt told Ashmann

that he had been ordered deported to Haiti by the British

authorities in the Bahamas; that there were also thousands of

Haitians in the Bahamas scheduled to be deported to Haiti

who wanted to come to the United States and also that he was

* the

interested in the plans of the captioned organization.

At approximately the same time, Arthur had been sent

to the Bahamas by Buchanan and had briefed Benoit on the

plans of the captioned organization.

The informant also said

that Arthur had apparently assumed the position of aide de

camp to Benoit.

Upon receipt of telegraphic authorization by Benoit

to represent him, Ashmann contacted the American Consulate.

_7.

CONFIDENTIAL

NW 65994 Docld:32302483 Page 13

---

## Page 14

CONFIDENTIAL

AMERICANS FOR. FREEDOM

in the Bahamas and was successful in having issuance of a

"Permanent Visa" to Benoit expedited and Benoit immediately

departed for Miami by plane arriving in Miami approximately

two weeks ago.

Benoit, having

been briefed by Arthur concerning

the instant organization's plans, was enthusiastic about the

plans and, according to the informant, visualized himself

as the next President of Haiti.

Ashmann advised the informant that Benoit's

arrival in Florida generated a lot of interest and that

Ashmann had received from the Immigration and Naturalization

Service (INS) word that it wanted to meet with Benoit.

Additionally, the Dade County Port Authority Security Office

received word of a bomb threat to Benoit and the Dade County

Metropolitan Police Department wanted to know where Benoit

would be staying.

The informant noted that James Buchanan did not

appear at the airport to meet Benoit.

Benoit, following his

arrival in Florida, was checked in at the McAllister Hotel

in Miami.

Benoit and Arthur later met with Ashmann and a

member of Ashmann's staff, one Tony Aiello. FijA i'i

Ashmann revealed to the informant that Benoit was

very enthusiastic about the group's plan to assassimte

Duvalier as explained to him by either Buchanan or Arthur,

but Ashmann noted to the informant that Benot seemed some-

what naive in that he repeatedly indicated that he wanted to

i wanted to

do only what the United States Government wanted him to do.

Ashmann considered Benoit naive because Benoit seemed to believe

that the United States Government would approve or condone

the plan of the group. Benoit continually indicated interest

• in contacting United States authorities before embarking on

any plan.

The informant also learned that Benoit agreed, that

if he was successful in taking over Haiti, he would support

financially the anti-Castro plans of the captioned organization

and at

that time attempted to make an evaluation of how many

millions of dollars would be available for anti-Castro efforts.

after his take-over of Haiti.

late variano or anti-citro erforts

CONFIRENTIAL

- 8÷

NW 65994 Docld:32302483 Page 14

---

## Page 15

CONFIPENTIAL

AMERICANS FOR FREEDOM

Benoit, in subsequent contacts with Ashmann,

indicated that he wanted to bring the Haitians in the

Bahamas to the United States where they could live in peace,

but at the same time train until the time was right for

them to go back to Haiti. To this end, he asked Ashmann

to attempt to arrange for a waiver of secondary documents

for the people in the Bahamas so

• they could come to the

United States as Haitian exiles.

In the meantime, Benoit arranged through Arthur

for a test load of Haitians to come to the United States.

Within 12 hours after Benoit's arrival in the United States,

25 of Benoit's followers did come to the United

States and

were detained by the INS. Benoit asked Ashmann to represent

these people which he did.

They were given an exclusion

hearing and ordered deported because they actually entered

the united states from the Bahamas and not Haiti, and

consequently were not considered as Haitian exiles.

This

deportation order is currently being appealed through the

efforts of Ashmann..

Continuing, the

informant advised that about

24

hours after the arrival of Benoit, Buchanan contacted

Ashmann and complained to him about Arthur. He considered

Arthur indiscreet, unreliable, and suspected him of working

for CIA (Central Intelligence Agency). Buchanan additionally

felt that Arthur was not the type to lead the group and

indicated that he had told Benoit to be wary of Arthur.

Buchanan told Ashmann that he had discussed Arthur with

Chennault and Chennault was

in accord with Buchanan's thinking

regarding Arthur.

Buchanan additionally requested Ashmann to hold up

the charter incorporating the organization until Chennault

arrived in Florida so-that Chennault could be put in charge

of the organization. At that time the name of the organiza-

tion had been cleared through the Florida State authorities

and the charter was ready for signature and filing.

To date the charter has not been filed.

Arthur told Ashmann that Buchanan was trying to

sabotage him and said that Buchanan had sent Lombardo and

- 9 -

CONFIDENTIAL

NW 65994 Docld:32302483 Page 15

---

## Page 16

CONFIDENTIAL

AMERICANS FOR FREEDOM

Ayala on a door-to-door fund raising attempt and later blamed

and criticized Arthur for this fund raising attempt. Buchanan

later denied to Ashmann that he had ordered the fund raising

and said that Arthur had ordered it.

Lombardo and Ayala later contacted Ashmann with

$25 they had received in their attempt and asked Ashmann what

he wanted done with the money.

Ashmann told them that no

provisions had yet been made to handle such funds.

Benit has recently disclosed to Ashmann that he

had learned that some Haitian ton ton macoutes were to attempt

to assassinate him and that he had been able to verify this

information through contacts in New York City.

Ashmann

advised the local authorities concerning this

possible attempt

on Benoit's life.

The informant also learned that on October 2 and 4,

1963, Chennault had contacted Ashmann from California.

•On.

the first contact, Chennault told Ashmann that it would take

$25,000 to pull off a good raid on Cuba and that he had the

men

and planes available and also that among the planes was

a brand new jet fighter bomber still in its crate.

Chennault

requested Ashmann to try to induce Buchanan to get the $25,000

for the raid.

On the second contact, Chennault spoke along

the same lines as he had on the previous contact but during

the second contact gave Ashmann the impression that he was

broke and would be satisfied with just a little expense money.

on enormat that he

Ashmann told the informant that he was somewhat puzzled by

Chennault's contacts inasmuch as Chennault

. never mentioned

the raid on Haiti but spoke only of the raid on Cuba. As

far as the informant knows, Chennault has never come to

Florida as it was indicated he would, and Ashmann believes the

organization is dying a natural death.

Ashmann also

told the informant that he had heard

the

of Huntington Hartford, A & P heir and playboy,

"mentioned in connection with financial support of the organi-

zation.

Hartford owns Paradise Island, a resort, and other

interests in the Bahamas:

Benoit worked in a warehouse owned

by Hartford in the Bahamas and through this employment Hartford

allegedly gave financial assistance to Benoit and other anti-

Duvalier Haitians in the Bahamas.

Benoit suggested on one

occasion that Ashmann contact Hartford in an attempt to get

- 10 -

• CONFID

ENTIAL

NW 65994 Docld:32302483 Page 16

---

## Page 17

CONFIDENTIAL

AMERICANS FOR FREEDOM

his support for Americans for Freedom, but Ashmann told the

informant that he had made no contact and felt that such

contact should be up to Benoit, who apparently knew Hartford.

The informant has also heard the names of Alexander

as a registered agent

Pompano Beach, Florida, mentioned in connection with possible

support for the

organization, but is not aware that they are

actually associated with or supporting the organization.

The informant had no knowledge that Arthur, Lombardo,

or Ayala had prison records nor could he furnish any infor-

mation regarding any previous raids they may have participated

in.

The only additional equipment the informant heard

mentioned was an inference to an unknown quantity of small

arms supposedly owned by the organization.

The informant is unaware of any actual liaison or

contact between instant organization and other anti-castro

or anti-Duvalier groups. He has seen a paper signed by

Benoit and held by Arthur wherein it was agreed that instant

organization and Benoit's group would merge.

The informant

learned later through Ashmann that Benoit told Ashmann that

he had signed the paper merely to please Arthur.

The informant who has seen Arthur described him as

follows:

Name:

Age:

Race:

Sex:

Nationality:

Height:

Weight:

Build:

Hair:

Characteristics:

Edward Arthur

26 to 28

White

Male

United States citizen

6'.

185 to 190 pounds

Husky

Crew cut,

color not recalled

Clean

cut, all American type

- 11 -

CONFIDENTIAL

NW 65994 Docld:32302483 Page 17

---

## Page 18

CONROINTIAL

AMERICANS FOR FREEDOM

The informant was unable to furnish a description

of Lombardo and Ayala, but noted that Arthur, Lombardo, and

Ayala all lived at the Park Avenue Hotel on Miami Beach.

The informant believed Arthur and Lombardo are from

Ohio but could furnish no specific background concerning them.

He said that Arthur had

not been

seen

in the Miami area for

ten days or two weeks.

In regard to James Buchanan, the informant noted

that Ashmann had told him that it is his impression that

Buchanan is mentally ill, is obsessed with his anti-communist

ideas, and at one time recently had been arrested for beating

his wife.

The "Washington Daily News," dated October 3, 1963,

on page ten, carried an article wherein it was reported that

Alexander I

Roke, free-lance photographer, son of a New York.

judge and husband of the daughter of Sherman Billingsley, a

New York night club operator, was reported five days overdue

on a flight to Central America in a twin-engine rented airplane.

The "Evening Star," dated January 1, 1962, on page

A13, described one Major Evelio Duque as head of the "Escambray

Front Cuban Anti-Communist Army," an anti-Castro organization.

On October 8, 1963, Helen Glover, Registration

Section,

Internal Security Division, United States Department

of Justice, advised that the files of that office reflect

ed that the

no registration in the name SanyBentor Prevlously mentioned

a registered

agent for Benoit.

The "Congressional Directory," dated January, 1960,

reflects George A mathers as a United States Senator from

Florida.

This memorandum contains neither recommendations

nor conclusions of the Federal Bureau of Investigation.

It

is the property of the Federal Bureau of Investigation and

is loaned to your agency; it and its contents are not to be

distributed outside your agency.

- 12 -

CONFIDENTIAL

NW 65994 Docld:32302483 Page 18

---

## Page 19

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT O.- JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Reply, Please Rejer 10

File No.

WASHINGTON 25, D. Co

October 11, 1963

Title

AMERICANS FOR FREEDOM

(Americanos Por Libertad)

Character

Reference

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA - HAITI;

NEUTRALITY MATTERS

Memorandum dated and

captioned as above.

All sources (except any. listed below) whose identities

are concealed in referenced communication have furnished

reliable information

in the past.

Informant has been contacted an insufficient

number of times

to determine his reliability.

fe:.

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions

of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to

your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed

outside your agency.

NW 65994 Docld:32302483 Page 19

---

