# DOCID-32271623

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

3/23/201

AGENCY:

HSCA

RECORD NUMBER :

180-10142-10319

RECORD SERIES: CIA SEGREGATED COLLECTION

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

24-03-15

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

HSCA

FROM:

CIA

TO :

TITLE:

1.

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

66000 Date: 11-04-2021

DATE: 03/02/1978

PAGES:

13

SUBJECTS :

ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES

ROTHMAN, NORMAN

CIA, OPERATIONS

DOCUMENT TYPE: NOTES

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 1A; 1B

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 08/08/1995

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS:

Box 14

v9.1

NW 66000 Docld:32271623 Page 1

---

## Page 2

CIA HAS NO OBJECTIONITO

RGL

AU ROSETTO

varmas: Bathman.

20 l

inclusive dates 1951-1925

SECRET

summiry

3/2/78

11110673

i-categorize a01 file on Rothman- as "former withing

collaboratur.(relationship.terminated)..OJ.code.A3"

(As 0t 17

1925

From back at Fille

Four

2- Fusee pages.

of legal pad notes- hand written - no date or.

author given

Appears.. to be notes from an interview, but it is not labelec

re who is being interulewed... It coula be Rothman or

paula m. mcconnell.. The first entry so

"1. Dauid m mcconnell Ed. 38716

Charlote, N.C.

Ine second entry. is

"worman Rothman

American citizen-DOB NIC 2? Dec 1914)

Runs Bar. Bel-Air hotel

Owner sans Souci, night club, Havana

oispule.with.brother-in-law.or

Batsta. Moved to prouince Unb-4036

425 Surfside Blud..

sounds like its an interview with Rothman.

The third entay is rabelled 'Items" and lists several points.

Item a= "Cardenas plantation- ammo dump

Roth.claimsable. blow.up if w/ permissiun FBI

caR win assemble operators for pb.".

Irem B= Can set up bases in Yucatan - $50 - 100,000 cost

sries for B-26/napalm- get FC

Ac ange

boys to staff deal: " SEGMET

NW 66000 Docld:32271623 Page 2

---

## Page 3

2

SECRET

11110573

Tem C. =

"Assigns sub targets - can handle wi

Latin frends

congo Flap culing into recruit poal."

D-"Claims analysis Invasion Hop

e- "claims know.

Prio, Betanicourt."

f-"claims his contacts can get into chinese Commiegropo

g- "suspects Patrick 0p.

as.. being funny and ill-adursed"

page a."

#labeled...

"R"

lists a-hi

a.".

425 Surfside Bludj Belain Bar-.. Cubans Frequent -

ex-invadors.; Batistianos

b=" Francisco -friend-executed; Rogelio Conzalez-"Francisco

war name; Sori marion (sp?) - business acquentance

Efigenio Fernandez (Or) - associate

blgra

c-"A pristi (Peru) group= contacts

mexico - Curdenas - contacts " opposed frente

story.re.camps-malcontents/ shootings, Cardena-

commo via mexitrienas. Last contact 4-5 munthsago

@ mexi friends in contact with friends;. has met;

Last met @yes aso Acapulco, Has ursited farm after

Accipulco, Has beenin Yucatan " Last there 1959 - twoday.

claims Indian friena:.

Sankhez Arango:

Has met; Last met six weeks ago

In last year-ca 20-25 times

R knowss friends:

"Garcia" and " Tito"

NW 66000 Docld:32271623 Page 3

---

## Page 4

11110580

d-Re Süb -Targets

FC. Target:

Invasiona (congo) Flyers. names.

Base low air. target - mexico

2P- 51'3

2P - 515 / sas / Bombs.

monrue Am imb checked out Ran prevas charge

claims airstrip in existence.:

:.. Austin woung -R.

" personal pilet"

e- Chinese Commie Group

... claims groups Chinese commiest going into canada.

from Cuba, Grps in Pery )Lima- ca a yrsago"

f-Cuban Assets

How many agenrs?..

- How many sent last yo?

At date - ca. 6 who in Travel business?

Export Business

Nature of Des - coast Guard askea. R. re infiltratens

ex filtrations at Bel Air interview; also re shipments. Also.

askedre Puerto Rico. Capability re Black market. muney

exchange - thru 6."

6- Dominican Republic:

" Last visit = 1459. Purpose - Batiste. Commotoassets/

contacts

Juhin Abbes askeaR du job...

h- Gun-running

"claims same people/houses used by CIA in those jobs for

which R prosecuted...

claims shippedat

40 ships for:

Frente - CIA trucked the stuff up- he (R) loaded.

Purchase 20 ft "Reeter" - pilot baat: to underground."

NW 66000. Docld:32271623 Page 4

---

## Page 5

11110901

DBF 35028

15 oct 59-

"New. Anti-castro organization its has, in miami.

at. Biltmare Terrace Hotel, managed by subj: (Rothman)

who is supposed to proude. source thru u.s. gangsters. fer

1900t59-under nductment

guns and other weapons.

Pittsburgh-

Interstate

Transportation af stolen arms:

10 Dec 59-

- "Going to:

Yucatan... mexico to seei a

site; for a base of operations against. the castro guut."

31 Dec 59 - Subj afterreturning trom mexico cry,.

reportedly remarked that "We have astrip" "Acompatriot

of subj. Eduardo whitehgure, is later sald to remark that we

have: the planes." "Believed that both subj. and White house are

acquiring planes. tor purpose. of seting up. base of operations

in Yucatan Peninsula for anti-castro group headled by Col.

Orlando Piedra and Roberto Fernandez miranda".

23 June 1960 = conucted of interstate transp.of frearms

stolen tom Nat'l Guard Armory. -Canton, onu, sentence:

5yrs, ana 810,000 pne.

after

5 Feb 1960 - subj released trum. Allegheny County Tail -appeal

bund posted

27 Sept 1960 - "Approach made by subj.. Who is hood

indicted for gun running and stolen.

bond currently out un

$50,000 bora. 9 FBI contact felt subj: interest straight

profit motive ur hupe

avorable treatment. re above.rap. Also

delieve inspite of derog.into.-subj.could probably produce

two mig aircraft which would be brought to states

by one Crech and one cuban pilot....

NW 66000. Docld:32271623 Page 5

---

## Page 6

SECRET

11110682

nOB 14 märch 1984

4- Whiteouse Insua, Eduardo Julio

compatriat.of Rothman..

aka. "Teddy."

5. April 1960- reourt - subj (wntencuse) lost uis. altzenship. by

voting in cuba. He & Elliot Spinning. Intended to tale B-26

to vera cruz...

Sam Rubin (believea to be identical @

Sam "Streten" Rubin- Chief doorman at. Bultmore Terrace. Hotel)

reported.ouner of B-26. Reg FF N324.4G

31. Dec 1959- US custom serieci B-abat miami & anothe

(N28816)

B26 at vero Beah, when whitenuuse espinning altempled to nove

1a Dec 1960 - whitenouse- pilot who

In.. 196 C

Ebo -responsibl

for setting fire to sugar crops from air.

Asked-by Alberto Fernandez. for help. go Fernandezhas

set up a guerrilla organization fur... ex-employees.

whitenouse furmerly. head of cuban crurl. Aeronatics

Administration..

13. Feb 961- According to Alexander. I. Rorke, Jr. , Whitehuuss

has. 20 pilots suabable & ready to take draste action agarnist.

Cartro. & have workea out a "detinite plan of action" to

accomplish "Castro's ouerthrow.!

Orlando 1. Piedra - 201-217829 ot

8 Jan 1960

Pite eng an eura.

cuban Nationzi

According to Enrique Fernandez Parajon, both he d

subj (Piedra) are heading the "military Section". of the

counterrevolutionary group which is receiving monetary support

from Batista."

4mar 1960 - subj met or planned to meet @ Gen. Jose

Pedraza during the Latter's unsit

to washington

Report on subu. by special agent con armar 196101 the Nio. FBI office who

hanaicil.localicubenmakers

NW 66000 Docld:32271623 Page 6

---

## Page 7

11110283

di.

member of BRAC

fled Cuba 1 Jan 1959

pIer a oct 1959= recerued orders from Batista

by Jose Suarez Nunez to mmediately attempt to

¡cunsolidate whatever anti-castro forces he is able

for a move against castro with a particular ailed condition,

ji Miranda Fernandez-

8 march 1961 Acrom Fed in 1959 8 1960 had furnished aid

directly to Rolanco masfercer. Now providing aid

& assistance to his former military regiment uno are still

in cuba working against castro. He thinks group in

assocrated @

FRD.

7-1

Arspatch

Cable to Dirèctor From (

sept 27,1960

Fron

FBI. has aduised af approach made to Frank forini

for. procurement of two

mIG aircraft which would be

brought.to.st.ates by one dzech and one cuban pilot.

Approach made by worman Ruthman who is nood

Indicted for gun running and stolen bunds currently out

on A 50,000. bond, "

...2. "FBI contact tet Rothman interest

ww.straight.proht motive or hope fur

favorable treatment

re above rap. Contact stated, no chance winateuer latter

and that

..had aduised Fiorini that FBI

coula not

handlesuch.a.dea/_but.would.pass, to other

NW 66000 Docld:32271623 Page 7

---

## Page 8

11110587

interested

above derog

probably proaufe.

(entire caste)

His, gourt agency, said that inspite of

into beleued Rothman could very

3, Has 14s. any interest pursue. y

sep. + 28 1960-0able

orig-t

From Director -

Releasing offier!

cite Dir 02972

reponse to #7 -l p828

"If Ret para 1, plan involves delection of mIo

and Crech pilot trom Cuba Hgs, untally interested.

Aquise all pertinent detarls." (entire (able)

respond

=1. View Rothman Forthcoming trial local FBI feels

¡Justice department be acuised prior any cIA contact subj.

This to prevent any complication prosecution it op succeeas

and Rothman attempts

make deal ne possible prison

term.

2. Per telecon ag.

Sept mash acluised Has santiay

Rey also approachech by Rothman with same plan rett

If tagus.: Has decides go. ahead. with ops a

plars

make contact through Rey."

i to front too sur 86t a0is0 6 J162

1

0625

Request replies to.

rets. GReferences are l

Jobas;

0891) - "FBI SHll has opencale Ret A, ananas calle

several. times..

"Also desire. giue positove ansuer tu

¡Santiago Rey.

...un Ret B.."

NW 66000 Docld:32271623 Page 8

---

## Page 9

SEPPET

11110385

11-

memorandum for record, subj: vorman Rothmen

Rated 30 June 1961

preparea by C

A-DOB - 26 DeC 1914

POB - Bronx, Ny

a- "When Rothman fist cume to cAis attenton in

September 1958, he was

nuing in Dallas, Texan and was

allegedly engaged in public relations work. According

to his wife, Gloria; he made a one week trip to Lo's

Angelos in september un

undisciosec 'business."

3- In October 1959

Rothman was managing the Boltmuri

¡Terrace Hotel in miami

from which he was reportedly

the FBI to be supplying

an anti- castro organization

with arms whech he obtained

through his. gangsers".

4. "Following Pitsburgh chuktun, Rothman went to

Chicago, where he surrendered on charges of playing

akey role in one of the biggest robberies in modern

crim. history, the 13,5 million to looting of a canadian bank

Robbery was touched off when the canadian branch ut the

matra recerued a hurry-up order feum the carrbbean

for arms. The canadian. matra

did not have the money

I to buy. arms, but it knew now to meet get handsson

the contents of the Brockullle, ondario bank, It called

upon. the Us: matic for assistance , and it. was then

Rothman entered the picture, It was charged. " Is ubsequentli

portiens of loot. turned up in Shanghai, Argentina, Cuba

@ Austral.a:

continuey...

NW 66000 Docld:32271623 Page 9

---

## Page 10

-9-

11110500

5-l:" Betore Rothman was tracked down in connection with the

above crimes, he. was reported by the FBI as traveling to bucatan

to seek a base of operations

against the castro gourt. In this

enterprise he was associated

with Eduardo (Teddy) Whitehouse Insuc

formerly of the cuban Guil Aeronautical Assocration, ex-colonel

Orlando Predra Negueruela, former member of BRAG and head

ot Cuban Bureau of Investigations; and colonel Roberto Fernandez

miranda,! brother-in-laus of Batista and farmer commancer...

of the presidentäl guards as well as president at the natural

Sports Commissión. unle no mentiún is made of Rolando

masterrerts in this connection, Ruthman has engaged in many

exploits and deals with masters er."

6- "In Seotember 1960, Ruthman stall Out un 850,000 bonch,

made an approach to Frank Fiorini, soldier of fortune, offering to obtain

two migs-one floon. by a crech and another by a Cuban. Fiorini felt that

interejt

Rothman's

astons was stimulated by a straight profit matue or by

hopes for favorable. treatment regarding the federal case ogainst him."

→ In oct 1960 R. again appeared un pallas, where de approacha

Robert E. Grinnan, an all contracts promotion man. Rathmanciarmed

to have connections with Nor-Roth Industries of NYC. andstated

that clients of his had an. Interest in purchasing ½ millien metric.

tons of diesal fuel all and on e million metric tons of cruele or l

to be delivered over a tive-year perrod to Hamberg, Germany. Grinnan,

puzzled by the ofter , reported to the FBI.

He went to .f in. November

and met Rothman and the other.

principals of the deal, a mary

Talley and a Dr. Phillip Paneth. de Panay. Largely because of

Grinnan's

suspicions

the deal was neuer consumateer.!"

JICI

...conbmiea-

NW 66000 Docld:32271623 Page 10

---

## Page 11

- Sinat

T0 11110087

"As of December

alo, Rothmon was turng in Dallar, Tera

mama gatendes.

1a-memo tor Deputy chief- WHDiussin from

re meeting with. Norman Rothman & David m. McConnell

1:

datea June 30, 1961

met

Rothman and mcconnell on ag tune 1961 in oftie

¡of Deputy Atty deny to evaluate" Rothmanis claim to

operational assets inside Cuba and elsewhere in the

4 - 6:30

Carrbbean area.

egs P.M. Agreed that R would return

to Miami on Friday 30 June, and mr. McConnell

would phonel

gri Julys for evaluation of

Rothmany operational potentel in Cuban affarrs."

mcconnell spoke to simmons privately, moconnell described

tomseltas a

ileadina politeal taure in the Democrate parta machine in

Nicarolina, rhat he was acquanded @lub. Kennedy, Gen. Taylor, Gen. Uan

Flest."

, corporate tax lawyer's concerned ouer embarassment to the

Kennedy administratin caused by the cuban "frasco." Melonnell stated

that Rothman claims to have assets and capabilites which would anabie

Rothman to

destroy the arms dumps on the plantatun of ex-pres. (ardenzs.

of mexico, to set up operational bases in the bucatan at a costoftso-

91000, to babatoge targets in cuba lentted by the us gourd

and to provide positive intelligence on the acturtes of Chinese Communi

groups. in the western Hemisphere."

Rothoman stated. O castro hace executed. 3 of his. close friends:

Rogelio Gonzaleza; Sori Marin ; Etigenio

Fernandes.

.!.!

continuact

NW 66000 Docld:32271623 Page 11

---

## Page 12

11110533

2- operational capability

cardenas... He had agent assets

to destroy arms aumps of

in mexico, sad he made

contact as recently as y to

$

months ago.@

merican friends

3- Constructed an airstrip in the Yucatan., built

oy Indians One B-26 had landed there.

4-well-acquainted@sancher.Arango..considers him

a good persunal triena.. Last met @

b. weeks ago.

5- had the personnel & capabilhes to attack or

sabatoge any target. of our choosing in cuba, Henad

a badie plan fur. assass, of castro. plan callea for an

arr.ahack@napalm.againstcastro

when he was addressing

a railly..

Haia 100 pilots.. uno. had participated in inuasion

af Cuba & nuo working fu Congulese Air Fure, Would not

identity pitots.."

6- said he had many agents going in dout ut Cuba.

sala he was in contact @ 6 agents

at this time.

Agents were in the tourist: trauel. büiness ur export impürt

businesses , entered us ura. 3rd countries.

b-knows ot many chinese communists going into

Canada from Cuba

8 - expressed resentment ouer gun-running cher ser. "...said

that CIA used the same people in there gün running actorter

cme, eultimen

and the same houses, for which he was being prosecuted.

by the Federal Government. Hesald that he had superused

40 ship operations on behalt ot the Fronte aganst Cuba.

He saia that cIA would truck

the stuff to the point

NW 66000. Docld:32271623 Page 12

---

## Page 13

61(10:80

or ship pick-up, where he (mr. Rothman) woula

superuise the loading of the ships. He said that he had

purchased the aur ship "reeter" which was the first

boat to support the underground... in cuba. He addec

that he knew everythiny the GIA planned in

maritime operations, and for the inuasiun.".

9- close friend ut:. John Abbes Garcia, Chef of

Dominican den. Secürity.:

comment by simmus = did not belieue Ruthman's claim

ot controling agents and material assets.

Recommence)

no.furthar.discussiun@Rothmen re thereclaim.

13- memo for recora. - subt. vorman eothman

10. July 1961

prepared by Catherine

Lemaistre

- During Batista regine Rothman was superumun of

slot machines in Lamaguey province under the natunzl

supervisur, Alberto Ardura Moya, Who was one of

owners of Tropicana Nightclub in Hawana..

indicates as a sec 196:0. Ruthman Huing in Dallar, but

acant reports picure him in miami

14.-

Rothman's silent parmerin sans sougi. -Eufenio Fernandez Ortega

NW 66000 Docld:32271623 Page 13

---

## Page 14

53/9/78

Leshe wizelman

SECRET

11110693

ED Browder -vol 1

Volume one of the Browder files. covers the period from 1954. to 1961

A may as, 1954 cable sep from mexico City reports that Browder

was born in Amarillo, Texas on June ad, 1917. He has a long

record of passing bad checks and has been conunted twice

in federal courts fur violation of the Neutrality Act andtheft

of gout property in attempting tosend a planes to assist

in the revolution against. the venezuelan government, Under

the name of Edward: Sabatino, Browder obtained reservations

in the Hotel monte cassino in mexico on may 6. "For

Info... this man considered either soldier of fortune or

provocateur and

into. wanted on his activity by Havana.

Other Browder aliases: Edward Browder Sabatino,

•Eduardo sabatino, Edwara Sabatino Ouruier

In a leter from Browder to mr. Henry Luce (Time-Life), dated

11-15-54. , Browder offers Luce exclusiue rights in full coverage

of revolution in costa Rica, Browder offers to send a

C-47 to Dallas to pick up two of Luce's representatives.

In the pis, Browder says he would like to have George silk

on this assignment. A Nou 14,1954 lelter states that

a wire was sent saying: "sorry cannot undertake."

NW 66000. Docld:32271623 Page 14

---

