# DOCID-32175682

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

992 (44 USC 2107 Note]. Case#:NW

55994 Date: 11-01-2021

File #:

62-NY -15065

Serial Scope:

17 thRu 29A, 31 thru 36

37B thry 55

NW 65994 Docld:32175682 Page 1

---

## Page 2

&Y 773

NO 13 MY CODE

3:20 PM NITEL 3/15/76 ETB

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (52-116395)

FROM:

ADIC, NEW YORK (52-15965)

AITI: W O. CRAEGER

SENSTUDY 75

RE NY NITEL, FEBRUARY 24, 1976.

REFERENCED MY NITEL REFLECTS THAT PAION FONZI, ALLEGED

STAFF INVESTIGATOR WITH SENATOR RICHARD F. SCHWICKER WAS TO

RECONTACT SA JOHN J. SOTTER OF THE NYO, AI APPROXIMATELY 11:55

Ao la, On FEBRUARY 25, 1975..

AS OF CLOSE OF BUSINESS, FEBRUARY

25, 19755 FONZI HAD NOT DONE SO. FONZI DID ATTEMPI TO TELEPHONICALLY.

CONTACT SA COITER ON THE AFTERNÓON OF FEBRUARY 36, 1976, AND

POSSIBLY ONCE AFTER THAI, ON WHICH OCCASIONS SA COTTER VAS NOT

AVAILABLE. FONZI HAS NOI AGAIN AITEMPTED IO CONTACT SA COTTER.

62-15065-323

Decent: 157314

SEARCHED.

_INDEXED.

SERIALIZED _

_FILED Y

MAN 1 Ö 1976

FBI-NEW YORK

W 65994- Dood:32175682 Page 2

---

## Page 3

PAGE TWO..

NY 62-15065

HOWEVER, IN THE EVENT HE DOES HE WILL BE ADVISED IHAT ANY

REQUESIS FOR MATERIAL OR INTERVIEWS OF FBI, PERSONNEL, MUST

BE DIRECTED TO THE DEPARIMENI OF JUSTICE AND FBI HEADQUARTERS,

WASHINGTON, D. Co, THROUGH REGULAR

SENATE COMMITIEE CHANNELS.

END.

NW 65994 Docld:32175682 Page 3

---

## Page 4

7252:14-74)

0..3

Transmit the following in

Via

TELETYPE

TO:

FROM:

CODED

FBI

Date:

(Type in plaintext or code)

NITEL

(Precedence)

DIRECTOR, FBI (62-116395)

ADIC, NEW YORK (62-15065)

3/15/76

Approved:

ATTN: W. 0. CRAEGER

SENSTUDY 75

RE NY NITEL, FEBRUARY 24, 1976.

REFERENCED NY NITEL REFLECTS THAT PATON FONZI, ALLEGED

STAFF INVESTIGATOR WITH SENATOR RICHARD F. SCHWICKER WAS TO

RECONTACT SA JOHN J. COTTER OF THE NYO, AT APPROXIMATELY 11:55

A.M., ON FEBRUARY 25, 1976. AS OF CLOSE OF BUSINESS, FEBRUARY

25, 1976, FONZI HAD NOT DONE SO. FONZI DID ATTEMPT TO TELEPHONICALLY

CONTACT SA COTTER ON THE AFTERNOON OF FEBRUARY 26, 1976, AND

POSSIBLY ONCE AFTER THAT, ON WHICH OCCASIONS SA COTTER WAS NOT

AVAILABLE. FONZI HAS NOT AGAIN ATTEMPTED TO CONTACT SA COTTER.

C1- New York

1-Supervisor (#32)

JJC: tmw

(2)

Decented /Am 0-2 det

3/16/8651

62-15065-316

! ".

SEARCHED

INDEXAD

PILDO

Sent

WA-BL

- 3:20

* Me, Per-

ETS

Special Agent in Charge

NW 65994 Docld:32175682 Page 4

---

## Page 5

FD-Su

-1,4-74)

FBI

Date:

Transmit the following in

(Type in plaintext or code)

Via

(Precedence)

PAGE TWO

NY 62-15065

HOWEVER, IN THE EVENT HE DOES HE WILL BE ADVISED THAT ANY

REQUESTS FOR MATERIAL OR INTERVIEWS OF FBI PERSONNEL, MUST

BE DIRECTED TO THE DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE AND FBI HEADQUARTERS,

WASHINGTON, D.C., THROUGH REGULAR SENATE COMMITTEE CHANNELS.

CLASS TI TEESY 9495-900521

END.

Approved:

Sent

_M

Per —

Special Agent in Charge

NW 65994 Docld:32175682 Page 5

---

## Page 6

outing Sil

-7otRev. 12-17-7i

O:

SAC:

Albany

Albuquerque

Alexandria

Anchorage

Atlanta

Baltimore

Birmingham

Boston

Buffalo

Butte

Charlotte

Chicago

Cincinnati

Cleveland

Columbia

Dallas

Denver

Detroit

El Paso

Honolulu

RE:

• Houston

Indianapolis

Jack son

Jacksonville

Kansas City

Knoxville

Las Vegas

Little Rock

Los Angeles

Louisville

Memphis

Miami

Milwaukee

Minneapolis

Mobile

Newark

New Haven

New Arean.

New York City

Norfolk™

SENSTUDY 75

(Copies to Offices Checked)

TO LEGAT:

• Oklahoma City

I Beirut

1 Omaha

Bern

Philadelphia

1 Bonn

Phoenix

- Brasilia

Pittsburgh

Buenos Aires

Porti and

Caracas

Richmond

Hong Kong

Sacramento

London

St.

Louis

Madrid

Salt Lake City

Manila

San Antonio

Mexico City

San Diego

Ottawa

San Francisco

Paris

San Juan

Rome

Savannah

Seattle

Singapore

Tel Aviv

Springfield

Tokyo

Tamp a

Washington Field

Quantico

Date.

3/16/76

ReNYtel 3/15/76.

Retention

For appropriate

- For information

1 optional

X action

[ Surep, by

The enclosed is for your information. If used in a future report, [ conceal all

sources, _ paraphrase contents.

- Enclosed are corrected pages from report of SA

dated

Remarks:

main tass

Referenced teletype declassified at FBIHQ,

as justification for classification nonexistent.

Declassify

NÝO file copy.

70→

SEARCHED.

62-150653380

SERIALIZED DEtAIn FILED

• MAR 17 1976

UNEW YOR

En c.

Bufile

62-116395

62-15065

NW 65994 Docld:32175682 Page 6

---

## Page 7

FD-350 (Rev. 11-11-75)

DO NOT DESTROY - PENDING LITIGATION - 38

**.

DO NOT -DESTY

"PRESERVE FOR

(Mount Clipping in Space Below)

Widespread Lawbreaking

Laid to Intelligence Units

SENICENT

ASSETATIONS*

Brownell Reversed Policy

A few weeks later, Attorney

General

Herbert Brownell re-

versed Justice Department poli-

cy prohibiting the FBI from

trespassing

install

mIcro-

shone surveillances

He sent a

nemo to iar. Hoover giving au

Examples Given by Senate Committee-

Report Says Ultimate Responsibility

Lies With Highest U.S. Officials

thority to engage in bugging,

saying

"Obviously, the installation of

a microphone in a bedroom or

in some comparably intimate

location : should

avoided

(Indicate page, name of

newspaper, city and state.)

pear; however, that important.

Bỳ LESLEY OELSNER

intelligence or evidence relating.

to The New Yort Times

. to matters connected with the

WASHINGTON, April 28-In/

1954, an assistant director of

Other Examples Given

national security can'..only. be.

the Federal Bureau of Investiga-

The Committee also cited

obtained by the installation of

tion sent J Edgar Hoover al

other examples. to

Show how,

a microphone in such a loca-

memordandum

recommending

the director of thesF.B.l,

tion.."?

the'

"Considerations of, internall

that the bureau plant an elec

• director of the F.B.I.'s' intel-

-N. y. Terres

8035

security and national safety are

tronic listening device in the

ligence activities and many oth

hotel room of a suspected Som

ers could have ignored the law.

paramount and, therefore, may:

They are examples of action

compel the unrestricted use. of

anunist sympathizer.

and inaction. by high Govern!

this technique in the national

The memorandum said :tha

the bug "will not be legal." I

ment officials outside the intel

interest.":

ligence agencies:

A second example of officals

added, however, that it would

be

"necessary. and desirable"

It is the central thesis of the ignoring the law occurred

Senate committee's^report, re-

for the information it woul

1961 and involved edward

Re

¿disclose."

leased today, that the high offi. Day, who was then Postmaster

Mr. Hoover; the FBI direc

cials responsible. tor,overseeing

general. Mr. Day told of it him-

the " agencies; vincluding Pres-

self in testimony to the Senate

tor, approved the bug.

idents, Cabinet members, and

select committee.

The Senate Select Committee

on Intelligence cites. this

in;

Congressmen, helped to create

As the described it, Allen W.

Dulles, Director, "of. Central In-

and bear the "ultimate; respon-

oident as

an example of the

telligence, told Mr. Day that he

SENSTUDY

sibility" for the intelligence;

widespread

and deliberate

• community's climate of, law;

had something "very secret" to

breaking of the law by the na

disclose. Mr. Days interrupted

tion's intelligence.community

It also cites testimony of the

lessness. the examples were.

andrasked,

"Do thave to know

Among

about it?" Mr., Dulles, rephea,:

the following: "

"No."

F.B.I.'s director of intelligence

In 1954, the, same year as,

for 10 years, William C. Sulli

the Hoover, bugging incident,

The committee report, said

that, according

to:

Richard

van, to show that illegality was

the Supreme Court issued an

often not even mentioned. Mr

opinion decrying the use by the

Helms, the C.I.A.'s deputy, di-

Sulivan was quoted as saying.

local police of warrantless mi-

rector for plans, who was also

at/ -the

meeting,

Mr., Dulles

¿"The one thing we were con; crophone surveillances of a de-

wanted to tell the Postmaster

cerned about was this. Will this

fendant's bedroom.

course of action work, will it

"Few police measures have

General

that the CIA.

was

opening. mail; a project

that,

APR 2 9 1976

Date:

Edition:

LATECITY

Author:

Editor:

Title:

get us what we want, will we

reach the obiective that we dee Cour said, that more flagrant-

the committee said, violated. Fe:

deral

_law:prohibiting obstruc;

sire to reach? As far as legality

ly, deliberately and persistenty.

tion, interception or opening of!

is concerned, morals, or ethics,

violated the fundamental prin

[it]

"was

never

raised

myself or anyone else.""

by

ciple, declared by, the.

Fourth

Amendment as a restriction on

But the Postmaster General,

by his

own testimony, never

the Federal

Government

that

head-Mr. Dulles's account,

be-

'the right of people to be se

cause

the

C.I.A.

chief under-

cure in their persons, houses,

stood

that Mr. Day did

papers.and effects..against.un-

reasonable searches, and

sei-

want to know what he did not!

have to know.,

Zures, shall not be violated, and

no warrants.

shall issue out

King Inquiry Cited

upon provate rause'.

The long F.B.I. investigation

of the Rev. RE. Martin Luther y

Ning Jr. provided still more ex

amples

nat involved Robert F.

Re

Sinter

Kennedy,

Attorney

during part of the King investi-

gation; Nicholas, deB.

Katzen:

bach,

Attorney General during

another part, and Burke Mar-

Character:

or

Classification:

Submitting Office:

Being Investigated

62-15065-38

SEARCHED

INDEXED.

SERIALIZEI

soc

29

FBI NEW YORK

shall,

an

General. at the time.

Assistant 'Attorney

Mr.

and Mr. Katz

enbach, were

Kenned aware of some

PIC

aspects"-of the King invertigat

NW 65994 Docld:32175682 Page 7

---

## Page 8

ann, the report said, "yet neith-

er ascertained the full details"

of the campaign to discredit Dr.

King:

Mr. Kennedy, for example, in

1963 authorized wiretaps on

Dr. King's home and office tele-

phones. He requested that an

evaluation

the results

be

sent to him within 30-days; the

report said, so he could

deter-

mine whether the taps

should

be continued:

But the evaluation was

never delivered to him, and he

did not insist on it," the report

said. "Since he never. ordered!

the termination of the wire:

tap, the bureau could, and did,

install additional wiretaps on

King by invoking the original

authorization; the report said

Johnson Told of Ofter

Mr. Katzenbach and Mr.

Marshall testified. to the..com:

mittee, the report said, that in

late 1964 they learned that the

F.B.I. had offered tape record-

ings, of Dr. 'King to some Wash-

fington journalists. They: also

said that they. informed Pres-

ident ohnson of the f.B.l's"or

fer.

..?.

"The committee has discov-

ered**

evidence,

however,"

the report said; "that the Pres.

ident. or Justice: Department of-

ficials made any further effort

to haltu the discrediting cam-

paign at this. time: or at.any

other time; indeed, the bureau's

campaign, continued for several

years after this incident."

Yet other examples occurred

in the Nixon Administration, in-

-cluding Mr. Nixon's own tem-

porary approval; later rescind-

ied, "of the so-called "Huston

¡plan,"

which

involved: such

things as mail openings. and

I noted their illegality.

The committee summed up its

point this way:

11*3

"When senior Administration'

officials with a duty to control!

•domestic intelligence activities

knew; or had a basis for. sus-

pecting, that questionable activ-

ities had occurred,

they often:

responded with silence or ap-

proyal.

"In certain cases, they were

presented

with, a, partial: de-

scription of a program, but did

not ask for details, thereby ab

dicating their responsibility:

"In other cases, they were

fully aware. of the, nature, of

the practice.and implicitly.. or

explicitly approved it."

20786

Among the reasons the com:

mittee

cited

was that, some-

times,

Administration, officials

assumed

"that an intelligence,

agency would not. engage

lawless.

conduct.

• sometimes;

"they

simply did not. want to

know."

NW 65994 Docld:32175682 Page 8

Harshlv Critical

The committee did not con

tend that these acts and omis

sions

by

high

Administration

officials

excused the lawless-

ness by

the intelligence

agen-

cies. It was, instead. harshly.

critical of the intelligence of-

ficials. and"" cited

numerous.

instances where the agencies

had withheld information from

"both the executive branch and

Congress and ignored their di-

rectives.:

"In one, example,

the bureat

supplied a news release. for

Senator Edward V. Long of

Missouri,

who

in 1966

was

holding

hearings on. electronic

surveillance. techniques.

The

bureau said in the Senator's re

lease, with, his approval, that

the subcommittee: had "con-

ducted

exhaustive

research"

and. was. now

"fully satisfied"

that the F.B.I, had not. para

ticipated in

"High-handed or

uncontrolled usage" of surveil

lance.

The

report. said

"that" the

press release was "misleading."

for the committee's. "exhaustive

reseärch" was apparently a 90-

minute briefing on the bureau's

practices in which, the Senator

was not told' of the many im-

proper activities.

The committee's report placed

"ultimate

responsibility' for

the

"climate of permissiveness",

on the various high-ranking

Government officials who were

supposedly in

charge of con

trolling the activities of the in

telligence community.

"The committee sinquiry has

revealed a pattern of reckless

disregard

of activities

threatened" our

system," it said.

constitutionall

intentiony once ed trom the

¡Government officials responsi

ble for, supervising the intelli-!

gence agencies,.

or

undertaken

without express authority. Such

behavior

is

inexcusable.

But

equally inexcusable is the ab-

sence of executive: and Con-

gressional oversight, that 'en-

gendered

an atmosphere

which the heads of those agen-

cies believed they could .con-

ceal activities from their su-

periors."

---

## Page 9

FD-350 (Rev. 11-11-75)

(Mount Clipping in Space Below)

Bureau Accused of Trying

to Manipulate News Media

By PHILIP SHABECOFF

group's apartment as "a sham

Special to The New York Times

bles with lewd, obscene and

WASHINGTON, APRIL: 28-

The Federal Bureau of Investi- on the walls.

ti- revolutionary; slogans displayed

gation repeatedly and covertly

"The Washington

attempted to manipulate the

bureau

chief of a major news organiza-

news media in an effort to in- tion was allegedly given dis-

fluence public opinion and dis- crediting information about the

credit citizens and organiza- lawyer defending Dr. Daniel

tions that were its

"targets,"

the Senate Select-Committee on

Ellsberg in the Pentagon papers

case.

Intelligence Activities reported

The F.B.I.'s efforts to use the

today."

news media were generally part

"The committee's. report on of

the

bureau's cointelpro,.or

domestic intelligence activities

counterintelligence

program,

presented evidence of pervasive

designed to "disrupt" or

"neù-

and frequently successful

ef-

tralize", people or groups.consi-

dered a threat to domestic se-

forts by the F.B.I. to use the curity. But the report indicates

news media to attack, such tar-

that the F.B.I also sought to

gets

as the Rev.

Dr." Martin

use the news media to dissem-

Luther King Jr. and groups and

inate its

own views on 'such

individuals in what is described issues as foreign, policy "and

as the: "new left."

sexual morality.

Following are examples from

The report said that the bu-

the report

of "ways in' which

reau's crime records division

the F.B.I. sought-to influence

maintained

reports of the news media:

with

"covert

liaison"

the news media to ad-

Through a, "good friend"

vance two main domestic intel-

who was chairman of the board ing derogatory

ligence objectives: "(1) provid-

a national magazine,

. information to

bureau killed

an

the media intended to generally!

article

about the bureau

unfavorable discredit the activities or ideas

that

was scheduled to appear in the

of targeted groups

magazine.

articles,

news.

9F.B.I. orticials approached leases and background informa-

reporters, including one from tion in örder to disrupt particu

a major magazine, and offered lar activities."

to play. tape recordings "embar

rassing". to Dr. King,

At the committee's hearings,

la, former director of the crime

mished be ne burete with pho Bishops testied, it me kept

dographs depicting a radicalla list of the bureau's "press

Re

SensTory

(Indicate page, name of

newspaper, city and state.)

w.yTemes

_p34

DateAPR & & 197€

Edition: RATE CiTY

Author:

Editor:

Title:

Character:

or

Classification:

Submitting Office:

J Being Investigated

62-150653801

SEARCHED

AINDEXED

FILED

10g 197

FBI - NEW YORK

PIe:

NW 65994 Docld:32175682 Page 9

---

## Page 10

friends" In his desk. He also passed that information on to characters, activities, habits

said that the F.B.I.. sometimes the White House. The article and living conditions represent-

refused to cooperate

_Public Record Data

Mr. Bishop said that, as a

general rule, the bureau

in a mit do one be, yeroid, and enthusiast.

out only

(mation,

"public record infor- political

gave papermen frequently produced fices to gather information that

but, that this

would disprove allegations by

cover almost everything in the tion. For

than national security informa- "the liberal press, the bleeding

files "on'a targeted individual."

Dr. King,.

said that one

example, the report hearts and the forces on the

showed left," that the Chicago' police

leader who was assassinated in helped Sargent Shriver to write

rights that one of the ...' argets used undue force against dem

1968, was a frequent object of a news release criticizing a cratic National Convention.

onstrators at the 1968 Demo-"

F.B.I.

"news leaks," according speech by President Nixon.

to the report.*

"Several months after the

The report generally did not Cointelpro

operations

were

The report stated that in No- divulge the names of the jour- supposed to have ended, the

vember 1964, the Washington nalists or new media executives F.B.I

bureau

attempted to discredit

néws publication" told Nicholas F.B.I.

a "national who were. in contact with the Leonard Boudin, the lawyer de:

B. Katzenbach, who was then

fending Dr. Daniel Ellsberg in

Attorney General, that one of ings, the F.B.I. maintained a disclosing

According to the Senate find- the Pentagon papers case,

reporters

'had

• by

to the

Washington

proached by the F.B.I. and

with the bureau chief of a major news

[fered a chance to listen to

chairman of a national magan service information about Mr.

[teresting"

volving Dr. King:

Boudin's alleged sympathy for

"Communist causes.

Benjamin C. Bradlee, now ex:

ecutive editor of The Washing- the

wspe rureau placed in „a

the bureau took advantage of newspaper, an article by

ton Post,

confirmed to a ques-

the wealthy,

• Negro

industrialist"

tioner today that when he was

to that purported "to give the lie

bureau chief of Newsweek ma-

to the Communist canard that

gazine in 1964 he informed Mr.

ticle, to postpone publication of the Negro Is downtrodden and

Katzenbach of the offer made

an article on an F.B.I. case and has no opportunities in Ameri-

to forestall publication of an ca.?, The bureau also aided the

The report indicated that the

publication of articles support

/Following are some other ex-ing the war in vietnam

As one of its recommenda-

contents or die closes to attempt ei en ip thation of the tions, the committee urged that

the news media on a number of news media by the F.B.I.:

occasions.

On one occásion, it

intelligence agencies

asked bited from disseminating infor-

learned through a wiretap that its; field offices to provide the mation to the news media for

"de- political or other improper pur-

and de- poses, including discrediting op-

NW 65994 Docld:32175682 Page 10

---

## Page 11

FD-350 (Rev. 11-11-75)

(Mount Clipping in Space Below)

NA.A.C.P. CHECKED

25 YEARS BY F.B.I.

No Illegal Activities Found

- Women's Movement Also

Monitored by Bureau

By NICHOLAS M. HORROCK

Speclal to The New York Times

WASHINGTON, April 28 -

The Federal Bureau of Investi

gation spent 25 years monitor-

ing the "wholly lawful political

activity" of the National Asso-

¡ciation for the Advancement of

Colored People on the ground

that it was conducting a search

for Communist infiltration, the

Senate Select Committee on In-

telligence disclosed today.

:: The committee also said that

the bureau had infiltrated

the!

feminist movement

and made

targets

of such

groups as the

Christian Front and the con-

servative American Christian

Action Council, led by the Rev.

Carl D. Mcintire:

Army: domestic

intelligence

operations opened files on nu-

merous groups seeking peacefull

Change,

including

the John

Birch Society, the Young Amer-

icans for Freedom, the National

Organization of

Women, the

National Urban League, the

Anti-Defamation

League

of

B'nai B'rith, Business Execu-

tives to End the War in Viet-

nam and the N.A.A.C.P

In its 341-page report on do-

mestic • intelligence

activities,

the Senate committee cited

these as demonstrations

that

"large nuritters or law-abiding

Americans and lawful domestic

des

SENSTUDY

48

NW 65994 Docld:32175682 Page 11

(Indicate page, name of

newspaper, city and state.)

N.y. Times

pl

Date:

4/29/16

Edition:

LATECITY

Author:

Editor:

Title:

Character:

or

Classification:

Submitting Office:

Being Investigated

62-15065-339

SEARCHED

INDEXED

SERIALIZE 7

AILED T

1: i.

201375

P FBI - NEW YORK

---

## Page 12

Communist infiltration of the

Groups have been subjected to

black group.

In the first year of the inves-

extensive intelligence investiga- tigation the bureau agents re-

¡tion and surveillance."

The committee said it had ported that the N.A.A.C.P. had

a "strong tendency to "steer

found the domestic intelligence clear of Communist activities,"

activity, including operations by, the committee said, yet the in

the F.B.I., the Central Intelli-l

ne in an a te a service quarer of a conun:

for a

The bureau infiltrated the as-

had been "overbroad" because sociation with informants and

of the

"absence

standards for intelligence in- its

of precise gathered extensive

reports on

vestigations."

membership, headquarters

and activities.

In 1956,

for instance, the

standards the rosi, of these bureau prepared a report on a

torney General Harlan Fiske

leadership conference on civil

Stone

limited the

F.B.I.

to

rights the N.A.A.C.P. sponsored

and

described the plans for

criminal matters, through 1976. delegation from the conference

Mr. Stone's standard was that to visit Senators Paul H. Doug-

the bureau

"is not concerned las, Wayne Morse, Herbert H

with political or other opinions

Lehman,

of individuals."

Hubert H. Humphrey

"It is

cerned" he

and John W: Bricker. The report

said,

"only with

their conduct.

was sent to President Eisen-

and then

such conduct as is

only

hower, the committee found.

by the

forbidden

laws

of the United in such

Since targets were described:

States.'".

vague terms, hundreds

thousands

of

F. But:

the': committee

Americans

found

"the scope of domestic intelli- telligence files,

have ended up in domestic in-

gence

investigations

the report said.

ently widened

consist-

after the 1930's.

in the

decades

Army's Files Cited

. and were

The Army,.. the

committee

permitted under criteria which

said,

more nearly resembled

maintained intelligence;

Or

• social

political

files on 100,000 Americans in-!

[standards]

than

cluding the Rev.

standards for government ac-

tion."

Luther King Jr.;

Dr.

Martin

Maj.

Gen. Ed-

People came under investiga-

win

Walker,

Julian

S.

Bond,

Jcan Baez.

Dr. Benjamin Spock,

tion, the report said, for being

the Rev. William Sloane Coffin,

suspected

"rightists"

or

"es-

Senator Adlai E.

Stevenson 3d

pousing the line

of revolu-

tionary

movements."

and Representative Abner Mik-

Others va.

got attention as

"rabble rous-

lers"

Or

because

All those in the Army's'files,

were the report said, got there "sim-

¡"agitators" or "black national- ply because of their participa-

ists."

political

The report said Presidents,

protests

their

or

Congress

association

with

those

and

the

agencies

themselves

were

who engaged in such political

guilty

of activity.

creating these vague standards.

President

As an indication of how ex-

Franklin

Roosevelt, tensive domestic

for instance, wanted the F.B.I. activities have been, the

intelligence

to.

watch

"subversives"

Com-

and mittee

gather intelligence

reported that the F.B.I.

itial"

"poten-maintains some 500.000 domes-

espionage and

intelligence

with

no clear definition

Miles in

of Washington

its

these terms.

headquarters and

has others in its

field offices.

Inquiry Began in 1941

From 1955 to

1975 the bureau

investigated

740.000

"subver

It was under Mr. Roosevelt sive matters' and 190,000 "ex-

that in 194l the bureau opened tremist matters."

the N.A.A.C.P. investigation. Iu

The C.I.A.,

was begun, the committee re- Chaos

port said;

of protests by 15 black

"as an investigation| sidents

messlamassed an

"index" to

attendants about racial discrim- 300,000 Americans and full dos-:

ination in the Navy." Osten- siers on 7,200

sibly the investigation was to more than lad organizations.

determine if there had been The l.R.S. amassed files based

pac-

NW 65994 Docld:32175682 Page 12

---

## Page 13

upon

political

criteria

from

1973 on 11,000 indivi-

Mr. Roosevelt had the bureau

put in its files for scrutiny the

for general intelligence purpo-

telegrams to

White House

The vast list of suspects in

opposing his defense policy and

this net grew more quickly be-

supported Col.

cause of the "vacuum cleaner"

then a strong critic

techniques of surveillance that of United States foreign policy.

poured names of Americans into

the files with no ciear, indica-

why they should

•C.I.A., it said, illegally opened

some 250,000 first-class letters

1953 to 1973, producing,

a "computerized index of near-

ly one

and one-half million

names."

The F.B.I. also opened 130,-

1000 letters in eight projtcls

from 1940 to 1966, but its re-

sults were not known.

The National Security Agency

conducted wholesale

scannings

of cable traffic leaving and en-

tering the United States as well

as certain overseas

teleshone

calls which further filled

the

files.

Neither one's station in life

nor sex, age or political colora-

tion seemed to assure protec-

tion against coming under the

scrutiny of one

of

the intel-

ligence agencies.

The

"women's

liberation

movement" was infiltrated by

the F.B.I. in several cities, in-

cluding Kansas City, New York

and Baltimore.

. The informants who attended

the meetings, the report said,!

"collected

material

movement's

about the

policies,

leaders

and individual members.

Every Woman Named

"One

report included

the

name of every woman who at-

tended

meetings, and

another

stated that each

woman

at

meeting had described 'how she

felt oppressed, sexually or oth-

erwise'" the

committee report

said.

"Another report

conclud-l

ed that the movement's purpose

was to

'free women

from the

humdrum

existence

of

being

only a wife and mother, but

still recommended that the,

in-

vestigation should continue.

The agencies, particularly the

F.B.I., were responsive to suc-

cessive

politica!

administra-

tions

and

willingly conducted

domestic intelligence investiga-

tions on poople the Presidents

designated, the report said.....

aide to Mr. Roosevelt who was

allegedly trying to influence job

appointments. President Eisen-

hower received political reports

Bernard Baruch,

Roosevelt and Supreme Court/

Justice William O. Douglas.

The Kennedy Administration

had the F.B.I.

wiretap a Con-

gressional staff member, three

Agriculture

Departmeni

offi-

cials, a lobbyist and a Wash-

ington law firm. Also ordered

were taps on

newsmen with

major publications,

the report

said.

Attorney

General Robert

F. Kennedy received F.B.I. re-

ports on a secret "bug" placed

on a hotel room occupied by a

Congressman.

Dr. King's Rooms Bugged

The bug was

placed in the!

wall of a New York hotel room

where Howard D. Cooley, Dem-

ocrat of North Carolina,

who

was

then

chairman

the

House Agriculture

Committee,

was to meet foreign officials.

The bug procured for Mr. Ken-

nedy, clearly political informa-

forces for and

against pending sugar legisla-

tion in Congress and the infor-

mation that one foreign official

planned to take two

sional secretaries to

ness," according to the report.

In many cases the investiga-

tions and techniques used, the

report also said, were only thin-

ly disguised as being for nation-

al or domestic security purpos-

The committee found rec-

ords of a meeting at the F.B.I.

on Dr. King at which "avenues

of approach aimed at neutraliz

ing King as an effective Negro

leader"

were discussed. Subse. it

quently, F.B.I. field offices were

ordered to continue to gather

information on Dr. King

in or-

der that we may consider using.,i

this information

at an

oppor

tune time

in

counterintel,

¡ligence move to discredit him.

Some two weeks later the

bureau placed

first of 15

¡bugs on various hotel rooms Dr.

King occupied around the coun

20 reels of tapes on his person...

The material was later used =:

¡to make a tape recording that

the bureau

sent to Mrs.

King

to try to discredit and frighten

the black leader.

If power or prominence were.

no protection against attention

from the intelligence agencies,

obscurity did not

help

much,

either, the report indicated.

The F.B.I. opened an investi-

gation and used informants to :!

report on a 1969 meeting of the"

Northern Virginia Citizens Con-

cerned

About the ABM at a

high

school

auditorium near

Washington. The bureau, the re-

port said, got on the case be-

cause the meeting had

been

mentioned

a

Communist

newspaper. The meeting, a dis?

cussion of the merits of the anti-

ballistic-missile defense system,'"

was attended by several De-".

partment of Defense officials

but no particularly

persons.

Victims of Prominent

domestic"

intelligence who were targets ??

of the F.B.I.'s counterintelli-s?

¡gence

program,

or

cointel-.

paid against radicals, the report

"The tactics used

against

Americans

often

risked,

and

sometimes caused, serious emo-

tional,

economic

or

physical i

damage. Actions

were

taken

which

were designed to break

tup

marriages, terminate

fund-

ing or employment and encour-

age gang warfare between vi-

olent rival groups," the report

said.

P3C-

NW 65994 Docld:32175682 Page 13

---

## Page 14

Illegal Acts Noted

"Due process of law forbids

the use of such covert tactics,

whether the victims

are 1n-

nocent law-abiding citizens or

members of groups suspected

of involvement in violence,", the

committee noted.

Unlike genera!

domestic in-.is

telligence investigations,

Coin-

telpro's activities were designed i

to harass members of the Com-

munist

and Socialist Worker's

Parties as well as various black

nationalist groups and the Ku

Klux Klan.

"In Cointelpro the bureau se:

cretly took the law into its own

hands, going beyond

collection

of intelligence

and beyond its!

law enforcement

function

t0. ÷7

act outside the legal process al--e

together,

" the report said.

The acts of disruption ranged

:from

fomenting

trouble

be-

tween the Black Panther

Party G

and Us Inc., a rival black group.

in San Diego, to trying to get au

state liquor board investigators

to raid a campaign party of :?

an antiwar candidate.

Since

the

bureau

remaineds:"

anonymous in most of its coin-;

telpro actions, the victim

was: is

never quite sure what had hap-i's

pened.

The

"vacuum cleaner" ap-

proach to investigations provid-.

led the grist for the mills of:*.)

Cointelpro.

Since the bureau.

collected and stored enormous'

amounts of personal

informa-

tion on its

targets,

it had the

detail to make anonymous let-

ters about

marital

infidelity:

sound plausible.

The report contained no total "7

¡figures on

how many persons

have been maligned or injured

by domestic intelligence inves-

tigations or Cointelpro.

The

committee recommended- that

the department of Justice noti-

fy all victims of Cointelpro that

they had been

victims

of the

program. Attorney General Ed-

тт2

al weeks ago that the depart-

ment would be contacting some s

of the victims.

million files on

domestic intel-

ligence cases and that the files.

of the Department of the Army

have not been destroyed.

NW 65994 Docld:32175682 Page 14

p4-

---

## Page 15

FD-350 (Rev. 11-11-75)

(Mount Clipping in Space Below)

INTELLIGENCE PANEL FINDS

F.B.I. AND OTHER AGENCIES:

VIOLATED CITIZENS RIGHTS

Findings of Senate Panel

"Culpability - Government-officials at all levels know.

ingly took part in illegal activities in a decades-long cam-

paign to which Presidents, Cabinet members and members

of Congress "cléarly contributed." Presidents from Frank-

lin D. Roosevelt onward, and their aides, have requested

or accepted from the F.B.I. politically useful information

about opponents and critics.

Scope The F.B.l, C.I.A, IR.S., Army Intelligence

and other agencies created files on more than half a mil-

lion United States" citizens, opened nearly 250,000 pieces

of first-class mail, monitored millions of telegrams and over-

seas telephone calls, listed 26,000 citizens for detention in

a

national emergency and subjected many private citi-

zens' to secret harassment and programs designed to dis-

rupt their lives and destroy their reputations.

Targets-Groups and

individuals

subjected to the

secret intelligence gathering programs were from all parts

of the political and social spectrum. At times the intelli-

gence network focused on the National Association for the

Advancement of Colored People, the Ku Klux Klan, anti-,

Vietnam' war groups, _the-John Birch Society and the fem-

Inist. movement. Individual targets included. the Rev. Dr.

Martin Luther King Jr., Maj. Gen: Edwin Walker, congress-

men, senators and, at one point, the mail of former Presi

dent Richard M. Nixon.

Reforms-The committee proposed sharply restricting

investigative activities of the Internal Revenue Service and

military intelligence.

It urged a ban' on wiretaps, mail

openings and unauthorized entries- by the Central Intelli-

gence Agency. All domestic noncriminal intelligence works

would be vested in the F.B.I. and monitored by Congress.

NW 65994 Docld:32175682 Page 15

(Indicate page, name of

newspaper, city and state.)

_N.y. Teme

_P/

Date: APR 2 9 1976

Edition: LATECITY

Author:

Editor:

Title:

Character:

or

Classification:

Submitting Office:

] Being Investigated

62-15066-40

SEARCHED

_INDEXED

SRANZED

FLED

• /FBI - NEW YORI

---

## Page 16

FD-350 (Rev. 7-16-63)

(Mount Clipping in Space Below)

/F.B.I's Deadly Games

It is axiomatic; but easily forgotten, that a suspension

of the liberties of 'even the most reviled

group in a

society will dilute the liberties of all since each discre-

tionary suspension of rights leads more easily to the

next one. This truth is brought to mind by the release.

of a study, by the staff of the Senate Select Committee

on Intelligence, of the Federal Bureau of Investigation's.

counterintelligence programs against the Black Panther

Party and other "black nationalist-hate groups."

While revelations about Cointelpro activities against

Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. have elicited widespread

concern and comment, little has been made of the

program against the Panthers and other black groups,

even though the evidence indicates that those programs

may well have been responsible for the death

of a

number of individuals charged with no crime. That is a

large accusation, but three events drawn from committee

records suffice to sustain it:

• At U.C.LiA. in 1969, the Black Panthers and US;

another black group, were engaged in a violent conflict

that had already caused two deaths. The F.B.I. exacer-

bated the struggle by sending the Panthers inflammatory

material, ostensibly from US. After further deaths, the

bureau's San Diego office made the following appraisal

of its efforts: "Shootings, beatings; and a high degref of

unrest continues to prevail in the ghetto area.of south-

east San Diego. Although no specific counterintelligence

action can be credited with contributing, to this overall

situation,,

it is felt that a substantial amount of the

unrest is directly attributable to the program."

(Indicate page, name of

newspaper, city and state.)

_M. y. Tumes

_pyO

-

-Re SENsTuDy

_

Date: MAY 1 2 1976

Edition:

Late city

Author:

Editor:

Title:

Character:

Of

Classification:

Submitting Office:

Being Investigated

7 2195865-41

SEARCHED

_INDEXCU

SERIALIZED L FILED STA

MAY 1 2 1976

FBI - NEW YORK

48-

PIC-

NW 65994 Docld:32175682 Page 16

---

## Page 17

_ Fe

@The F.B.I. sent an anonymous letter to a Chicago

gang leader whose organization it characterized as one

to which "violent type activity, shooting and the like are

second. nature.". The letter advised the gang leader that

the Panthers intended to have him killed, which, accord-

ing to the F:B.I., was designed to "intensify the degree of

animosity between the two groups" and cause "retalia-

tory action which could disrupt the BPP or lead to

reprisals against its leadership.". This project apparently.

failed; there is no record of any violence flowing from it.

• In December 1969 a special unit of Cook County

police raided the headquarters of the Illinois chapter of

the Black

Panther Party. When the raid was over,

according to a Federal grand jury, which investigated

the matter, the police had fired between 82 and 99

shots and the occupants, only one. Two Panthers, includ-

ing Fred Hampton, chairman of the Illinois chapter, were

read. Although the raid was ostensibly carried out to

find illegal weapons, F.B.I. internal memorandums indi-

cate both that the bureau took credit for being the sole

source for information that led to the raid and that it

believed the weapons inside the apartment were pur-

chased legally.

Such.reckless endangerment of human life was justified

neither by violent rhetoric nor by the fact that while

some of the Panthers were undoubtedly idealistic, others

were undoubtedly thugs. Yet the Cointelpro activities

had no sanction in law and represent the ultimate in

governmental lawlessness and arrogance.

F.B.I. Director Clarence M. Kelley asserts that under

nake officials accountable, it is difficult to be entirely

comfortable either about the F.B.I. or the liberties of

pr

NW 65994 Docld:32175682 Page 17

---

## Page 18

4/12/76

SAC DIV. IV

COST

OF RESPONDING TO INQUIRIES FROM

OREOR AGENCIES, CONCRESSTONAL COMWTIELS

AND REQUESTS UNDER THE FREEDOM OF

INFORMATION AND PRIVACY ACT (POIPA)

During March, 1976, the following estimated hours

were used

in responding to an inquiry re captioned matter for

Division IV:

Senstudy - 0 hours Agent's time

SAC DIV. IV

Supv. 48

l- File

(4)

162-1506542

APRA 2 1976

FBI-NEW YOR

NW 65994 Docld:32175682 Page 18

---

## Page 19

ADIC, NEW YORK (66-1854)

5/10/76

SAC DIV. IN

COST OF RESPONDING TO INQUIRIES FROM

OTHER AGENCIES, CONGRESSIONAL CONMITTEES

AND REQUESTS UNDER THE FREEDOM OF

INFORMATION AND PRIVACY ACT (FOIPA)

During April, 1976, the following estimated hours

were used in responding to an

inguiry re captioned matter for

Division IV:

Freedom of Information Act:

Agent hours - 12

Clerical hours

- 2

(ENEO)

62-15065

SAC DIV. IV

1- Supv. 48

1- File

JCS :đc

(4)

6215065-43

SEARCHED

SEARCHED SANE O

4976

FE!-NEW YORK

NW 65994 Docld:32175682 Page 19

---

## Page 20

ADIC, NEW YORK (66-1854)

SAC DIV. IV

COST OF RESPONDING TO INQUIRIES FROM

OTHER AGENCIES, CONCRESSIONAL CONMITTEES

AND REQUESIS UNDER THE FREEDOM OF

INFORMATION AND PRIVACY ACT (FOIPA)

6/9/76

Division IV:

Senstudy:

Agent hours - 1

SWP Law Suit:

Agent hours - 13,480

Clerical hours -

776

62-15065

SAC DIV•

IV

1=

Supv. #48

l- File

(4)

62-150165-44

SEARCHED

_INDEXED

SERIALIZED.

6 JUt /509976

FBI - NEW YOKK

NW 65994 Docld:32175682 Page 20

---

## Page 21

ADIC, NEW YORK (66-1854)

7/2/76

SAC IV HERBERT A. GRUBERT

COST OF RESPONDING TO INQUIRIES FROM

THER AGENCIES, CONGRESSIONAL COMMITTEES

IND REQUESTS UNDER THE FREEDOM OI

INFORMATION AND PRIVACY ACT

During June, 1970, the following estimated hours were

used responding to an

inguiry re captioned matter for Div. IV:

SWP LAW Sult:

Agent hours - 14,686

Clerical hours - 652

62-15065

SAC Div. IV

•1- #48

1- File

(4)

62-15065-45

SEARCHED.

SERIALIZED

JUL 2.

1$76

FBI-NEW York f

NW 65994 Docld:32175682 Page 21

---

## Page 22

8154

ADIC (66-9854)

8/2/76

SAC IV HERBERT A. GRUBERT

COST OF RESPONDING TO INQUIRIES FROM

OTHER AGENCIES, CONGRESSIONAL COMMITTEES,

AND REQUESTS UNDER THE FREEDOM OF

INFORMATION AND PRIVACY ACT

During July, 1976, the following estimated hours were

used responding to inquiries re captioned matter for Division IV:

SWP LAW SUIT

Agent Hours

-

16

Clerical Hours -

3

SCLC LAW SUIT

- 200

Clerical Hours

10

Agent Hours

(1' - 62-15065

I - SAC IV

1 - Section 48

1 - File

TJD: ecs

(4)

62-15065-1

NW 65994 Docld:32175682 Page 22

---

## Page 23

ADIC (66-8154)

9/3/76

BAC IV HERBERT A. GRUBERT

COST OF RESPONDING TO INQUIRIES FROM

OTHER AGENCIES, CONGRESSIONAL COMMITTEES,

AND REQUESTS UNDER THE FREEDOM OF

INFORMATION AND PRIVACY ACT

During August, 1976, the following estimated hours

were used in responding to inguiries re captioned matter

for Division IV:

SWP Law Suit

Agent Hours - 550

Clerical Houra • 32

• 62-15065

1o0

SAC IV

Section

, 48

File

TJD : de

(4)

602-15065-41

FARCHED_

_INDEXED

ERIALIZED

FILEDE

197/6

FBI-NEW YORK

2154

NW 65994 Docld:32175682 Page 23

---

## Page 24

ADIC (66-8154)

SAC IV HERBERT A. GRUBERT

COSE OF RESPONDINO TO INQUIRIES

10/4/76

During september, 1970, no time was expended in

responding to inguiries re captioned matter by Division Iv.

100

1-

62-15065

SAC

#48

IV

F1le

SEARCHED

102-15065481

SERIALIZED.

INDEXED

ocra

FBI-NEW YORK

NW 65994 Docld:32175682 Page 24

---

## Page 25

ADIE (66-8154)

12/1/76

SAC IV JOHN J. SCHWARTZ

COST OF RESPONDING TO INZUIRIES

FROM OTHER AGENCIES, CONGRESSIONAL

COMMITTEES,

AND REQUESTE UNDER THE

FREEDOM OF INFORMATION AND PRIVACY ACT

During October and November, 1975, no time was expended

in responding to inquiries re captioned matter by Divigion IV.

9 540-5905

1- #48

1- File

TJD : dc

(4)

662-15065-

SEARCHED

INDEXED

SEARVALIZEI

FILED

DFC 1 0 1976

FBI - NEW YORK

NW 65994 Docld:32175682 Page 25

---

## Page 26

SAC ROBERT C. DENZ

SA SUPERVISOR JOSEPH HENGEMUHLE

10/8/76

SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE

It is requested that Sub File A be opened on 62-15065

and it will be maintained in the custody of ADIC, NYO.

1 - NY 62-15065

1 - NY

62-15065 A.

JFH: mkc

SEARCHED.

SERIALIZEDE

2-15065-50

INDEXED.

FILED

FBI-I

NW 65994 Docld:32175682 Page 26

---

## Page 27

ADIC (66-8154)

3/1/77

SAC IV ALFRED E. SMITH

COST OF RESFONDING TO INQUIRIES

FROM OTHER AGENCIES, CONGRESSIONAL

COMMITTLES AND - REQUESTS UNDER THE

FREEDOM OF INFORMATION AND PRIVACY ACT

During February, 1977, no time was espended in responding

to inquiries re captioned matter by Div. IV.

G 62-15065

SAC. IV

#48

1- File

IuD:de

(4)

62-16065-51

SEARCHED

MAR 2

FBI--NEW YORK

NW 65994 Docld:32175682 Page 27

---

## Page 28

TO

FROM

OPTIONAL FORM NO, 10

JULY 1973 EDITION

GSA FPMR (48 CFF) 101-11.6

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

ADIC (66-8154)

SAC IV ALFRED E. SMITH

DATE:

3/1/77

SUBJECT:

COST OF RESPONDING TO INQUIRIES

FROM OTHER AGENCIES, CONGRESSIONAL

COMMITTEES AND REQUESTS UNDER THE

FREEDOM OF INFORMATION AND PRIVACY ACT

During February, 1977, no time was expended in responding

to inquiries re captioned matter by Div. IV.

1- 52-15065

1- SAC IV

1-

#48

File

TJD : dc

(4)

602-150605-52

SEARCHED_

INDEXED-

SERIALIZEDE

WAFILEDE

MAN

FBI - NEW YOMME

5010-110

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

NW 65994 Docld:32175682 Page 28

---

## Page 29

=

7/7/77

SUPY, THOMAS J. DOWIING (#48)

COST OF RESPONDING TO INQUIRIES

FROM OTHER ACENCIES, CONGRESSIONAL

COMMITTEES AND REQUESTS UNDER THE

XX

FREEDOM OF INFORMATION AND PRIVACY ACT

TO: ADIC (66-8154)

During June, 1977, no time was expended in

responding to inquiries re captioned

matter by Divsion IV.

Q-S4015065

SAC IV

Section 48

TJD: kap

(4)

135.180

SERIA

ZED.

-FILED

JUL50

+62-15065-63

SEARCHED

POARETERDD

SONIACTAOD

NW 65994 Docld:32175682 Page 29

---

## Page 30

vacatere

ĐE HQ 42162 0053249

ZNR UUUUU

A 0721012 JAN 63

IM DIRECTOR FBI

TO "FBI NEW YORK ROUTING

ET

Handed im183

by Du III.

UNCLAS

SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE STAFF VISIP TO THE NOW YORK OFFICE

ROBUCALS TO SAO'S GRAY AND MO GORDY.

BY IBOTER DATED JANUARY 3, 1983, SENATOR BARRY BOIDWATUR

CHAIRMAN, SENATE SOLEOT COMMITTEE ON INCEGIDENCE, REQUESTED

THAT TWO OF HIS START MEMBERS, JOON SOLIPS NOD HERPOOR CLINK

BE PERMITTED TO VISIT TO NOW TORS OTFIRE FOR A PRO-DAY

BRIEFING ON TER COUNZERINIOLLIGANOE AND TERRORISM PROFPAMS:

FBI RELATIONSHIPS: WITH OTHER AGENCIES AND OCHER MAITORS OF

INTEREST TO THE COMMITTEE.

COORDINATION WITS THE INTEGLIGENO DIVISION AMD SAC IS

AT AND MO GORTY RESOLAND TO A CONSENSUS FEAT SUCH NEVISTE

COULD BE PRRMISSIRGE, AND DATES FOR SHU VISIT OF JINGART 17 -

Ong routed to Dir IV

62-15065-54

SEARCHED

INDEXED.

SERIALIZED

EL ELLED

1AN 07 1983

101040

FBI-NEW YORK

NW 65994 Docld:32175682 Page 30

---

## Page 31

JANUARE AGO 1963, SPOTUNIRE AT A PROXIMACIOY DISO JOY. 04

JANUARY 1% 1903, dEAD ESTABLISHED, DUS STATE MEMORRS WILL

•DE ACCOMPANTEO BY REPRISENCANIVCS DRO V

INTELLIAENOE

DIVISION AND CRE CONOROSSIONAY AERAIZS SAATION.

ANY QUESTIONS SHOULD D DELETES TO SCHENNIE P. RACIER

CONGRESSIONAL AFFAIRS SBODION, PXTENSION 4515.

Life deed 1/17/033

BT

#0162

IN NN

NW 65994 Docld:32175682 Page 31

---

## Page 32

VZCZCHQ0275

RR NY

TIDIC

"IC]

T.C2

C

DE HQ #0152 0082209

19A0?

ZNR VUUUU

6:005

-2

R 072101Z JAN 83

EM DIRECTOR FBI

TO FBI NEW YORK ROUTINE

BT

UNCLAS

SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE STAFF VISIT TO THE NEW YORK OFFICE.

REBUCALS TO SAC'S GRAY AND ME GORTY.

BY LETTER DATED JANUARY 3, 1983, SENATOR BARRY GOLDWATER, "

CHAIRMAN, SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE, REQUESTED

THAT TWO OF HIS STAFF MEMBERS, JOHN ELLIFE AND HEBBERT BLINE,

BE PERMITTED TO VISIT THE NEW YORK OFFICE FOR A TWO-DAY

BRIEFING ON THE COUNTERINTELLIGENCE AND TERRORISM PROGRAMS, *

FBI RELATIONSHIPS WITH OTHER AGENCIES AND OTHER MATTERS OF

INTEREST TO THE COMMITTEE.

COORDINATION WITH THE INTELLIGENCE DIVISION AND SAC'S

GRAY AND MC GORTY RESULTED IN A CONSENSUS THAT SUCE A VISIT

WOULD BE PERMISSIBLE, AND DATES FOR THE VISIT OF JANUARY 1P -

I keptin Dir III

62-15065-54

JEARCHED.

INDEXED,

H. 07 1983

DADe

BI- NEW YORI

NW 65994 Docld:32175682 Page 32

---

## Page 33

PAGE- TWO DE HQ 0152 UNCLAS

JANUARY 18, 1983, BEGINNING AT APPROXIMATELY 9:30 A.M. ON

JANUARY 17, 1923, WERE ESTABLISHED. THE STAFE MEMBERS WILL

BE ACCOMPANIEN BY REPRESENTATIVES FROM THE INTELLIGENCE

DIVISION AND THE CONGRESSIONAL AFFAIRS SECTION.

ANY QUESTIONS SHOULD BE DIRECTED TO SA BENNIE F. BREWER,

CONGRESSIONAL AFFAIRS SECTION, EXTENSIO N 4515.

BT

#0162

NNNN

• NW 65994 Docld:32175682 Page 33

---

## Page 34

30 90 99165 412201

MAT SSSSS

1022446 201065

DO FBIN MORE PRIORE

ATTENOIONE SAO GAAT

ANTONION SIC NEVOR Y

CUATE SACE COMETOLUE

DUE NEX YORK O DIGA SENSARY 17-12

UNLESS OPHERNISE INDICARED -

REDUCALLS NO SAGS SENT AND M

1086. CASTIONED AS ABOVA. (0)

OU JANDART 7, 1985, SSOT STA

BUDGET OFFIGUR REARGET

Ong mut dir IV

S BR

NW 65994 Docld:32175682 Page 34

Habad in/s

SENIGHED

JAN 11 1983

---

## Page 35

SE NAST

NONE OU

SIT THE

ЗВУТАВ ТОЗ ДНІ

IM SULLER TIES WIND UNINNE

*SENNOSTEA

TROGIE •NESSNYH

SaYST/ONS THE 05

SNSSTESGRTONI

BIRS

LISNTE JANIO

CAN SESTO

PTATOTATE

Norants Toss

NICHO 15S

SuOT

190080

TENTATION SITTITIATSNOLSTE

CAN TIERNMENONS ENOT DEN

---

## Page 36

PAGE TERRE DN HO: 2158 5-810 P010

1) CUERAVT POR GEGATTONSFIP MIEN

AGENCY (NSA) AND CRUTIAN ENTELITETHOD AGENCY (CTA) COMPOUTNTS

IN NEY YORK. DUE STARE MEMEERS BAUT REQUE SOCD-PRAR TROY BE

GITEN A TOUR AND APTEREYO AY TRAT

CASOE SUHTSN AURENUN SAVIS TOSS

TONS,

INA SROTES

ACARTOUR

BY THE SURERVISOR, AND COMMENPARO

CIRCUMSPANCOS SROULD TANG TO/ALET

ESCUSSTON

THE RELATIONSHTE BETYCEN PRI

TOTA ISARYIS IOSS UNITIGOXA, SY

EXTENDED DO NEW YORE CIA CORDIAN

REPRESENTATIVE TO ARDIND TEIS POR

REQUIST BAS BEEN DENIED, AND SSCI STARSE

CONTACT CIA/ERD INDEPENDENCI

21 UNDERCOVER OPSRAPIONS AND

CONGRESS. SSOI SSAFFERS HAVE EXT

VIENS OF PUTO ONLENDELEOUTE LOPERATI

INTD SUGGESTS CISCU STONE FONDI

•INUTPANION 80

DIISTONLORD

DISCUSSIONS. 0T15

ASUE DO

PROPOSIT

TON

TITERETENECTO FINA

PROTEMS.

* IN

NW 65994 Docld:32175682 Page 36

---

## Page 37

PASS SOUR D8 MQ/015503R C

NEW YORK MAY ALSO WISE TO DISCUSS SOME OR DTE ADMINISTREDOVE

PRORLEMS INVOLVED INVAN OPTRITION OT PIS SINUURSE

SPACE, 3901•

3) ACTIVE MEASURESO SSCI-STALE

YORK'S RESPONSE TO SOVIET ININIA

INTD RELIEVES SSOI FAT NITRYPE D

CURRENT "PEACE" AND ANTI-NUCLPAR

SHOULD BE CONFINED CO AOEROXLEDG

U.S-A, IS UNDER INTEADIGARTONA

THAT FURTHER AMPLITICITION BE DIS

MAY WISE TO ROFER TO DIRROTOR'S

1982, CAPTIONED "FORDIGN COUNTE

INVESIIGATIONS OF DRGANTZNIIONS

THIS SUEJECT-

4) TBCHNOLOGT

ROLATIONSHIP E

NECENOLOSS

CUSTOMS

IS ARE DOTEVER.

DE:CUSATO.

NEM NORT

PD: TOVAD

MAON

ROOF NOLOGI

NW 65994 Docld:32175682 Page 37

---

## Page 38

PAGO TIVA DE RO-0195 6

5) BRAEDON 0R 2УFORHETLO 3CT

6) KORBIGN INDSSCISSLG FURTELIN

DISA SISTEM VORKINER

3T: 959. DEL::QADA

53 155

NW 65994 Docld:32175682 Page 38

---

