# DOCID-32368177

## Page 1

Date: 02/15/05

JEK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY

: CIA

RECORD NUMBER

104-10138-10224

RECORD

SERIES

JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

80T01357A

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

AGENCY ORIGINATOR :

FROM

TO

TITLE

DATE

PAGES

CIA

ROBERT BROWN

POLICE HOLDING 13 AMERICANS WHO SET UP ARMED CAMP.

10/25/1968.

: 2

SUBJECTS :

AMIGO

BONELLI, FRANK

DOCUMENT. TYPE :

PAPER

CLASSIFICATION : SECRET

RESTRICTIONS

: 1A

CURRENT STATUS

RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 09/11/97

COMMENTS

: JFK52 : F4 : 1997.09.11.17:59:37:436102

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

55924 Date: 10-26-2021

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10138-10224

NW 65924 Docld:32368177 Page 1

---

## Page 2

VANCCANO/ ON INITIALS SERA B

ShiC!

ROBERT

BROWN

VH/2/ES&HOND

"XT:

7163

25 OCTOBER 1968

CABLE SECHETARLAT DISSEMIMATION

28

CONFE:

MESSAGE FOZH

-TOTAL COPIES:

SECRET 23

CINDEX

DESTROY;

RETURN. TO

-NO• INDEX

I FILE IN CS: FILE.MO..

INFO!.

80.-274779

- SAANCH

FILE RID

RID COPY

(classitication):

(date and time filed)

SE CR.ENT

17z 0ст 63

CITE DIRECTOR

to

INFO

REM

20408)

BEING RELAYED

REUTERS REPORT OF 25 OCTOBER FROM BELIZE SAYS

POLICE HOLDING 13 AMERICANS WHO SET UP ARMED CAMP. ON TINY

ISLAND OF SHAG BOQUE CAY SOUTHEAST OF BELIZE. CAPTAIN

ALONZO CAMPOS ESCALANTE OF MEXICAN FISHING BOAT "AMIGO"

TOLD POLICE BOAT HAD BEEN HIJACKED BY AMERICANS.

THEY

ORDERED BOAT TO HEAD FOR BRITISH- HONDURAN WATERS WHERE

RENDEZVOUS WITH NOTHER BOAT WAS PLANNED. NAMES OFF IVE OF

13 AMERICANS ARE CHARLES ORR CONNELT AGE 30, ROBERT CURTIS

AGE 31 OF POMPANO BEACH FLORIDAY HERBERT JOHN FENDERN AGE

26: OF VERO BEACH FLORIDA, FRANK BONELL T AGES 44 AND MAX

GORMAN, BOTH FROM MIAMI POLICE CONFISCATED RIFLES, CARBINES

AMMO AND ANTI-COMMIE LITERATURE.

2 NAME OF SECOND, BOAT NOT. PROVIDED

3 WINDEX FIVE AMERICANS WHO PLANNED: SET. UP BASE FOR

OPS AGAINST CUBA

18810

END OF MESSAGE

COORDINATING: OFFICERS

RELEASING OFFICER:

GROUP 1

Excludad frora

automatic;

ISE CHREESTE

downe adira end

daslessilicatlans

REPRODICTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED:

NW 65924 "Docid 32368177"Page 2

(olite

¡rolarenco nunibor

45:0

AUTHENTICATIN

OFFICER

COPYIN

---

## Page 3

KTROUTING-AND/ OR INITIALS - SEER:

MIG.

S

ABLE ZECCETABIAT

DISSBNINATION

LESSAGE: FORM

TOTAL COPIES:

E CUR ENT

INDEX

¿NO INDEXY

10.1

BRANCH

D FILE EID

DESTROYS

MERE WES THE NOS

RETURN TO

RID COPY

Siste

122

¿(date and-time filed)

(reference: number):

SE CARTEST

CITE DIRECTOR

PAGESTWO

150023

WH: Comments

Ref describes

theft of NEl, Amigow and involvement

of Alax: GORMAN

Robert i CURTIS, and to thers who

Planning set up base for ops against Cuba land

to son to Guatemala, and clean out anti-Guat

guerrillas

Celin

JOHN R. HORTON

WH/276 D. Purric (telecoord)

WH/1 AR. Harrington. (telecoord)

WH/COG J. Mertz (telecoord)

EDWIN M.

TERRELL

C/wH/2

NW 65924 Docids 2368127 Page:3

"COORDINATING OFFICERS"

SE CARE T

Lectuded to de

freon automati

duangraiiig.and

deshmittication

INTERTEN

ÄUTHENTICATIN

OFFICER.

COPT

---

