# DOCID-32286525

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/28/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER

124-10195-10301

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62-9-12-361, 362, 363

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, DL

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

65994 Date: 11-01-2021

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

08/20/1962

16

CIP, ACT, ASSOC, SUR, GAMBLING, PROSTITUTION ACT,

RES

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

10/06/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC 2 A/T

v9.1

• NW 65994 Docld:32286525 Page 1

18

---

## Page 2

FB1

Date:

9/4/62

Tronsmit the following in -

AIRTEL

PLAIN TEXT

(Type in plain text or code)

AIR MAIL

Via

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

: DIRECTOR, FBI (62-9-12)

FROM

?

SAC, DALLAS (94-55A-SUB) P

SUBJECT: /

CRIMINAL INTELLIGENCE PROGRAM

WEEKLY SUMMARY

DALLAS DIVISION

Re Dallas airtel, 8/27/62.

Re:

SHERMAN FRANKLIN LITTLE, aka

IGA

(DL 162-129)

On 8/28/62, DL 95-C furnished the following

information concerning LITTLE, his associates and bis

activities:

A former Dallas bondsman, TOM SMITH, bad bought

the interest of FRED COMPTON in the Redman Club, 3109 w.

Davis.

This makes present owners under LITTLE's direction,

DONALD FULTON, ELMER CLUCK, and SMITH.

FULTON attempted to

recently set up a similar type club in Grand Prairie,

Texas, a Dallas suburb, but Chief of Police FRED CONNER told

him this would not be possible and for FULTON and his

associates not to try to set up any gambling activities in.

the Grand Präirie area.

con

Two Dallas bookmakers who are known, to work for

LITTLE, GLEN ERNEST BURNETT and MARVIN RALPHYPRESTRIDGE,

went.

to Hope, Ark., about 8/18/62 to contact GEORGE EVERETT

THOMAS

JR., former Dallas hoodlum who operates a pool hall in Hope rit

Purpose of the trip was unknown to CI.

PHEN V3- BureaulE

A 1.

S1-DL:162-143

I-DL 162-96

137-514

1 2 06sт3e

9206:

15721216

1-DL 92-292

1-DL 92-249

1-DL 92-360

1-DL 94-47

1-DL 92-213

I-DL 92-199

1-DL 94- 55A-SUB _

RMB: tjh

16 )

12-363

REG 36

6 SEP 6 1962

C

C = Wick

Approved:

Sent

Per"-

Dispecial-Agent An Charge

251

•NW 65994 Docld:32286525 Page 2

---

## Page 3

₴

DI. 34-55A-SUR

On 8/29/62, this car was observed at LITTLE'S

residence

beäring Texas license MU 6490.

Information obtained from Dallas 95-C, from

NirS. WHITE,

and from the surveillance of LITTLE was

orally furnished to Lt. JACK REVILL, Intelligence Section,

Dallas PD, and

Deputy Sheriff BOB MORGAN, Dallas SO,

0д 8/31/620

Re: GEORGE,

NIQUA, aka

AR;

PCI

92-61, 137-1216)

On 8/28/62, DL 95-C advised FUQUA and EDDIE TOM.

GREEN (DI 92-360) are hanging out almost daily at the

Dallas Club, a private club,

the manager Of which is BARNEY

GIBBS

PAYNE, known associate of FUQUA and GREEN. CI also

stated that for some unknown reason, FUQUA and JAMES HENRY DOLAN

(DL 92-292) are no longer associated together.

i B3

TEXA

Concerning RUSSELL, DOUG MATTHEWS (DL 92-213), CI

advised it was DOLAN who got MATTHEWS his job in a gambling

casino in Havana several years ago.

It had preiously been

determined that MATTHEWS had worked in Havana in a cast

allegedly operated by SANTO TRAFFICANTE, JR. (DL 92-199) •

further stated MATTHEWS is presently hanging out at "Pat's

Recreation Hall", located in the 600 block of Commerce Street,

Dallas, and has a residence at Grapevine, Texas:

CULA

A check of DOLAN's residence on 8/30/62, ascertained

that DOLAN was in town, as his car was parked in the garage

during the afternoon.

Information obtained from CI concerning FUQUA,

GRet, DOLAN and MATTHEWS was furnished to Lt. REVILL and

Deputy MORGAN on 8/31/62.

On 8/29/62, efforts were made to contact FUQUA for

further development as a PCI. Later in the day,

FUQUA

contacted

the Dallas Office and left a message he was leaving for

Kansas with his wife, as his trial there on theft charges was

presently pending.

On 8/30/62, MAE NABORS, neighborhood source, advised

FUQUA had left the previous day and that FUQUA's wife had told

3

* NW 65994 Docld:32286525 Page 3

---

## Page 4

DL 94- 55A-SUB

Mrs. NABORS that they were going to Kansas for trial.

Re: VIRGIL JOHN

ESCHIESON, aka

AR

(DL. 92-249)

On 8/27/62, DEAN STEPHENS telephonically advised

the Dallas Office that ELIZABETH ANN HEDLUND had recently

undergone an operation at the Medical Arts Clinic, Dallas,

/ under the

name of ELIZABETH ETCHIESON.

She had been

accompanied there by prostitute PAULA CAROL/CLARK, and

gave an address 4723 Denley, Dallas.

STEPHENS advised

he recently had been at HEDLUND's residence, 5540 Vickery,

and had observed a letter there from former Bureau fugitived

JAMES, RAY RENTON, which was addressed to SHIRLEYNGILMORE

EDWINA RENTON, at 5540 Vickery Street.

Both of these women

are known Dallas prostitutes.

DALLAS TIAN:

4

NW 65994

Docld:32286525 Page 4

---

## Page 5

F BI

Date:

8/20/62

Transmit the following in

AIRTEL

PLAINTEXT

AIR MAIL

(Type in plain text or code)

Via

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO

FROM

Subser

DIRECTOR; FBI (62-9-12)

SAE, DALLAS (94-55A-SUB)

GRIMINAL INTELLIGENCE PROGRAM.

WEEKLY SUMMARY

DALLAS DIVISION

Re Dallas airtel, 8/13/62

Re:

GIIF - DALLAS

(DL 94-47)

PROSTITUTION ACTIVITIES - DALLAS

(DL 31-5614)

B:R.34240.5018.90622.400806-46:9027:9380-006÷851tore:

on 8/15/62, DL 122-C advised that Dallas police

characters BOBBY GENE

GRUBBs, PD #3109O,ano an unknown prostiute

were living in the Wilshire Apartments on S. Nursery Street

TrYING RAMA, Ca180 advised that GRUBBS: aBBoelate, CALVIN

aka "BUDDY"

, Dallas PD #37665, had an apartment

In the same apartment house.

3-Bureau

I-DL 94-47

1-DL 31-5614

1-DL 92-214

1-DL

1-DL

92-291

92-386

51 800

REG 60

1-DL

162-37

62-9-12-362

I-DL

162-95

I-DL

162-1

1-DE

165-29

5 AUG 24 1962

JaDE

: 92061'

P61-DL 92-213

1-DL 137-1216

1-DE 94 55A SUB

jRMB: t jh'

(16)

C C a Wick

181

Approved,

AUG 31 1962

Special Agent in Charge.

Sent

- M

Per

NW 65994 Docld:32286525 Page 5

---

## Page 6

in listinties

*I a/i.02t

DI 94-55A -SUB

cI advised that two Dallas pimps, brothers

THOMAS THEODORE POMEROY, PD #33421 and DONALD POMEROX,

PD #34281, were now living in Apt. 3, 7549 Inwood, Dallas.

cI advised that frequent visitors to this apartment

included EARNEST STRUCKMEYER, Dallas PD #26266, MAURICE

DEXTER MC EWEN, Dallas PD #29812, LUKE JOSEPH RENNER,

Dallas PD: #32303, and GILBERT SYDNEY CRAWFORD, Dallas PD

#26065.

5731 0 2 eat a leathe plackout

a hangout for numerous Dabdas police characters.

on 8/15/62,

; DI 170-C advised he had

obtained

the phone numbers of two Dallas pimps who could furnish

a prostitute whenever called. He identified the pimps

as B.A. (BILL) NOBLE, FL 7-3509, and BILL HAMLIN, FL 7-5152.

on 8/15/62,

DI 83-0 advised there was a Negro house of

prostitution presently in operation at 2715% Bryan st.,

Dellas,

where four or five girls were always available

for dates.

CI also advised a Negro female named "MAE" LNU

had a gambling and botlegging operation at 2928 Grand Ave.,

Dallas:

The above information was furnished to Lt. JACK

REVILL Intelligence Section, Dallas PD

Sheriff BOB MORGAN, Dallas SO, On 8/15/62.

and Deputy

RE 8

TOMMY JIM MYERS, aka

(DI 92-214)

Been a or then a 7. 7?

on 8/15/62, DL 170-C advised that aths was

presenty saving an cabin ll, Gaston Terrace Motel,

MC MILLON:

The above information was furnished to It. REVILI

and Deputy MOROAN on 8/15/62

* NW 65994 Docld:32286525 Page 6

---

## Page 7

DL 94- 55A -SUB

Re :

GARY DEAN BARRON, 8K8

AR

(DL 92-291)

On 8/15/62, DL 83-C advised that BARRON waS

presently

residing 1701 N. Irving Heights St.n Irving,

Texas.

Above information furnished to REVILL and MORGAN on 8/15/62.

Re:

JOHN ELI STONE, aka

IGA

(DL 162-37)

HENRY CLINTON WINFREY, aka

IGA

(DL 162-95)

On 8/15/62, DL 140-C furnished the following:

information to SA ROBERT P. GEMBERLING:

Informant identified NOLAN MAYS as an employee

of the Southwestern Bell Telephone Company, 4100 Bryan Street,

Dallas,

, Texas, whose position is that of telephone repeaterman.

According to informant, MAYS bets with HENRY CLINTON WINFREY

on the horses and has used his telephone company position

in the past to monitor telephone callshto obtain information

as to which horses to bet on, and has thereafter passed same

on to WINFREY.

MAYS has recently expressed concern to informant

about the fact that WINFReY wile at Hot springs, Ark., in April,

1962, called MAYS person to person at the telephone. company test

board telephone, which call or calls were charged to the credit

card of WINFREY's girl friend. According to informant, the

purpose of such call or calls was to ascertain what tips MAYS had

obtained on horses; to ascertain what horses MAYS desired to bet

on; or to have MAYS dial another number in Dallas and let

WINFREY talk to such other party without there being any record

of such party being called by wINEREY..

Informant stated that he believes MAYS would

probably admit receiving such call or calls

and stately the

purpose of such callstras MAYS has expressed concern over the

matter realizing he has violated telephone company regulations.

3

* NW 65994 Docld:32286525 Page 7

---

## Page 8

DI 94-55A - SUB

Informant stated that about two weeks ago he (Informant)

received a request to check on a stuck coin in a pay telephone

at Piccola's Grocery, Carroll and Swiss, Dallas, Texas, and

when he plugged in to check on it, he recognized the voices of

HENRY CLINTON WINFREY and JOHN ELI STONE. He stated WINFREY

was calling STONE from the pay telephone

and receiving instructions

from JOHN ELI STONE to pay off and collect certain amounts

bettors who were identified by numbers.

Above information

furnished to Det. JACK WALKER,

Intelligence Section, Dallas PD, 8/15/62.

Re: GAMBLING ACTIVITIES - DALLAS DIVISION

(DL 162-])

On 8/15/62, DL 140-C advised SA GEMBERLING as follows:

Informant stated that there is considerable "action"

at the Tennison Golf Course which is frequented by numerous

hoodlums and gamblers in Dallas.

He identified J. B. TURNS

and JUNIOR MC PHERSON as two individuals frequenting

this

municipal golf course and stated that such individuals are

taking wagers on golf ganes, ad well as other sporting events

while on the golf course.

He stated that TURNS and MC PERSON

about six weeks ago reportedly let the word out while at the

golf course that they would be, from time to time, getting

motel rooms in or near Dallas at which rooms their

"trusted

betting customers could call them and give them bets.

named the Lamplighter Motel on Highways 67-80 East where

they

supposedly have operated in this fashion. He stated the

word is also passed on the golf course about dice and card games.

He stated the only way to know

ahead of time as to the

above would be to have an undercoyer man at the golf course

who played in the group

The above informition was furnished to Det. JACK WALKER,

Special Services Bureau, Dallas PD, on 8/15/62.

Re:

ROBERT MYRTH DAVIS, aka

(DL 92386).

On 8/3/62, DL 118C furnished the following to

SA WILLIAM R. JENKINS:

4

NW 65994 Docld:32286525 Page 8

---

## Page 9

FBI

Date:

8/27/62

Transmult the following in

PLAIN TEXT

(Type in plain text or code)

Via

AIRTEL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO:

FROM:

SUBJECT

DIRECTOR, FBI (62-9-12)

SAC, DALLAS

- (94-55A-SUB)

CRIMINAL INTELLIGENCE PROGRAM

WEEKLY SUMMARY

DALLAS DIVISION

Re Dallas airtel, 8/20/62.

Re: INTERSTATE. GAMBLING ACTIVITIES

DALLAS DIVISION (DL 162-1)

DOYLE PRIM, Fort Worth bookmaker, died at a

Fort Worth hospital this week from cancer.

DL-149-C-

advised that he was a pallbearer at PRIM's funeral

Saturday.

Re: WILLIAM GILVAN JORDAN

IGA (DL 162-22)

DL-149-C advised on 8/26/62 that JORDAN is

confined to his room with sugar diabetes and has lost

approximately 30 pounds. Informant stated that JORDAN,

as well as a number of other Fort Worth bookies, received

tax bills from the IRS in various amounts, and informant

understood that JORDAN received a bill for about $40,000.

Re:

ISADORE MAX MILLER, aka.

IGA (DL 162-96)

nS

On 8/24/62,

G.

Hospital,

a confidential

- Bureau: (462-1),

N

_-

Dallas

(162-22)

1 - Dallas

RMB/ 11

(Dian! VE

203

Approved:

OAUGS

i C* Wick Special Agent in Warge

MENSCHEW, Finance Office, Baylor

source, advised that subject MILLER,

REC- 32

62-9-12-3611

16 AUG 28. 1962

Sent .

Per

NW 65994 Docld:32286525 Page 9

---

