# DOCID-32390713

## Page 1

Date: 02/09/05

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER: 104-10435-10032

RECORD

SERIES

JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

: RUSS HOLMES WORK FILE

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM : DC/CI/R&A

TO

TITLE

DATE

PAGES

:

MEMO: GARISON INVESTIGATION OF KENNEDY

ASSASSINATION: DONALD P. (OR T. ) NORTON

:

08/14/1967

2

SUBJECTS : GARRISON

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER

CLASSIFICATION : SECRET

RESTRICTIONS

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

11/17/98

COMMENTS

JFK-RH02: F050-1: 1998.11.17.06:15:23:373129

Heleased under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note]. Case#:NW

65990 Date: 11-01-2021

[RI - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10435-10032

NW 65990 Docld:32390713 Page 1

---

## Page 2

400067

1 4 AUG 1967

MENCEANDURE

SUBJECT

Garnison Invastigation ol

Kennedy Assagelnation:

Donald P. (or T.) NONICK

I. Chú Asquet 1967 we vere tribened that the Veacoaves

(Ganda) Dus vas Amaing ai 5o3a moula mun aa latorvion cli o5a

Donais P. (ur 1.) NORTON, 35 peoro old, who had made the

follorany claircra

a, That ho wae e CIA mas and Mhat In 1900 he

delivered $153, 000 te Devid FERME loriransfer

to Code, (Commont: David W, FERDIS, now ¿cad,

Pas a pilot livias in dor Orlemo. Blatrice Attorney

Jarca C. Guirison bon cinimod that 122222 ons

ane df & Dacill gIous ei conspiratora sio master-

mindoù sie aosassination oi lresidont Gennedy,

Allogationa that Cli cmoloyed ZERRIe kave appearad

1a prist Thorough checks navo choun that there

vas Do istociation betrcea FERAiS and Lis Agcasya)

That in 1962 Clay CHAV gave NORDOM 12

attache cooo conicining 550, 000 maica MCRECH de

livored to oue larvey Lec in doaterrei, liosico,

(Comzont: There la no erideace that Lee Einrary

Ocvalé vag la loráco la 1962. Thoro is no evidener,

ericept tho moupportsd word of e cririnal aud drug

adiot, tnt Ciy SHAt know Omald. ERiAT ia tse

only person indiciod by Caprison to dete qu the cargo

cé conopiring to Mill Procident Kennedy.)

NW 65990 Docld:32390713 Page 2

---

## Page 3

That MONTON recalved $500 & sucnth gay

froza Cla dad that he aloo received brousses oá 05, 003

sar due action described in sub-pazegranh e, above, and

$2,500 for that doncribed in eub-peragragh b.

&. PUGS NORTON ropocted to an unidentfied oll

company olucial ia Calgery, Mberia, Cunada,

The? NORWON lost his Cir job is Moverabor

1966 sod was saviaod a sets don in Calgary.

Elicits are under way to cueda a cogy of tho editioa oi tas:

Vancouves Sua contaiziny tho article boreia deucriled, lorever,

(C/B/BO/01s also requariad to seis to otora staticalto try to get a

copy for use either Independently or througo linisch.

So All pestinient Agancy rocords lava boor clocked, Therc le

no recora o a Donald P. MORTON or Domaid t. NORTON.

Thare is

aiso no rocord oi a Donald NOLICN vino matches auy oi to foxogoing

smolErs/acalis also requested to obedia avellablo isforman

tos irons linioor rogarding NORION's general charctor and roputation

Ion veracity Becasos Miotrick Attorroy Gazziaos baa rado cainunded

chragon luat Cia and the FBI ase intororing in ide Invadtigation in New

Orteono, immatrion to liaisos shouid bo low-boy. It do requestra toas no

caference bo made to Gurrleon or Mis invoodigation. It la suggentas Ert

to only zoooon gives ior mur intarust be chat NORTON has made inise

allegasions last Gia craployed bio.

5. It 1s zeusasted that a chuch ba run in the fies os/a/cocko

see whethor subject appoare shercia.

Memo #7

Denovan I. Prati

DC/CI/R24

SEGRET

NW 65990 Docld:32390713 Page 3

---

