# DOCID-32398946

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER

:104-10110-10208

RECORD SERIES : JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

: 80T01357A

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM

TO

TITLE

DATE

PAGES

: MER

: MFR RE CUBAN MEETING.

: 07/25/1960

: 2

SUBJECTS: INVESTIGATION

ARTIME BUESA, M

DOCUMENT TYPE

: PAPER

CLASSIFICATION : SECRET

RESTRICTIONS

1B

CURRENT STATUS

: RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 03/02/94

COMMENTS

: JFK40 : F6

: 1994.03.02.14:06:19:560028

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Flecords Collection Act of

992(44 USC 2107 Note]. Case#:NV

5924 Date: 10.26-2021

[R]

- ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10110-10208

NW 65924 Docld:32398946 Page 1

---

## Page 2

Ex. to 2

25 July 1960

MEMCRANDUM FOR THE RECORD

1. On Friday, 15 July, a telephone call was received

from Jerry DROLLER, at which time he requested reservations

be made at the University Court Motel for a meeting of Cubans

that had previously been scheduled.

At that time a reserva-

tion was expressed to DROLLER as to the advisability of the

selection inasmuch as during the previous week & considerable

amount of Cubans were known to have been utillzing the premises.

Thesè Cubans were connected with the o11 companies, the majority

married to Americans who had been forced to leave Cuba as a

result of the expropriation of the refineries by CASTRO. Inas-

much as DROLLER was not planning to meet at this time rembers of

the Frente group and stated the same, he stated this would be

the last time he planned to use this

site as a meeting place.

A reservation was subsequently made for DROLLOR under allas by

a member of the office staff using the floticious name Paula

Ross, without leaving a contact address or phone number.

2.

Monday evening DROLLER arrived in the Mlamt area and

was

taken to the apartment-hotel of the writer where he

with various member of the office for a briefing, and

subsequently was dropped off at the University Court Motel

2:30 a.m. by Willtam KENT, who proceeded there via a circultous

Telephone communication was maintained by the office

with DRoLER during the meetings he transacted that day, and

calls were received from him on the office unlisted number,

setting up and changing a luncheon meeting.

On 19 July it was prearranged that DROLLER would

remain at an inconspicuous place at the motel at 1345 hours

and we would drive by and park, at which time he joined the

writer and proceeded to a Howard Johnson restaurant located.

on D1x1e Highway approximately a mile from the motel. The

luncheon was attended by William KeNT, DROLLER, and

the

writer, and lasted approximately one hour.

.4.

Shortly prior to the end of the luncheon this group

was joined by Bernie REICHHARDT as a result of previous arrange

ments made by he and DROLLER, and who subsequently dropped

DROLLER off in the vicinity of the motel.

NW. 65924 Docld:32398946 Page 2

---

## Page 3

16110763

- 2 =

5. Subsequently, the writer departed from Miami on

National Airlines flight 201 enroute to Washington on the same

plane as DROLLiOR,

but no contact was made with DROLLER on the

plane due to the

tact acquaintances of the writer made it

unfeasible.

The writer explained to this group that he was

enroute to Johns Hopkins Hospital for medical treatment.

He

then stayed in the Washington airport until all his friends

departed, thenwalked to the parking lot where DROLLER had

waited and the latter took him to the Hotel Washington and

RJO/pr

NW 65924 Docld:32398946 Page 3

---

