# DOCID-32310162

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/29/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10302-10106

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 2-1423-133

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TO:

TITLE:

66000 Date: 11-09-204

DATE: 07/30/1969

PAGES:

52

SUBJECTS :

IID, CORRELATION SUMMARY, SEE REFERENCES, AKA,

POLIT, CONSPR, REVOLUTIONARY, CRIMINAL ACT, SUR,

TESUR

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS:

v9.1

NW 66000 Docld:32310162 Page 1

---

## Page 2

CORRELATION SUMMARY

SECRET

Main File No:

2-1423

Date:

7-30-69

See also:

46-15024, 46-19782,

1-23-95

46-33059, 63-6985,

63-7115,

63-7116, 74-2191,

Classifies sp8 machise

114-242, 137-11577, 156-165

Declassify

DADR (SKIL

Subject:

1. Irving Davidson

2-1-98

One Davidson*

CLASSIFICO BY 5668 SeEs parched: 12/11/668

11 logical variations of b SIFY ON: 25X4 (FR

s name and arlases were searche

and identical references were found as set out on page 2:

This is a summary of information obtained from a review of

all "see" references to the subject in Bureau files under the names

and aliases listed on page 2. All references under these names

containing data identical with the subject have been included except .

any indicated at the end of this summary under the heading REFERENCES

NOT INCLUDED IN THIS SUMMARY.

References indicated in the block as

SI contain the same information as the foregoing serial although the

information may have been received from a different source.

THIS SUMMARY HAS BEEN PREPARED FOR USE AT THE SEAT OF

GOVERNMENT AND IS NOT SUITABLE FOR DISSEMINATION.

IT IS DESIGNED TO

FURNISH A SYNOPSIS OF THE INFORMATION SET OUT IN EACH REFERENCE AND

IN MANY CASES THE ORIGINAL SERJAT

MORE DETAIL ALL WOM

WILL, CONTAIN THE INFORMATION IN Mme

FISHES IO UNGLASSIFIED

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN

Analyst

OTHERWISE

Coordinator

Clara M. Glock

Maxine G. Luckenbach

CMG: abs

Approved

James P.

Benedict

28B/43

*Not searched. See page 65

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION search s1ip. 2-1423-133

ENCLOSURE

DECLASSIFICATION ANDIOR,

RELEASE OF GIA INTORMATION

AY AUG I1 1969

N THIS DOCUMENT. exCEpT tOR

thE BRAC 9

OX on pa. 5

7 0 AUG 2 6 1969

9-15.97

5LD /KSR

10-1-97 (JFK)

NW 66000 Docld:32310162 Page 2

---

## Page 3

I.

I.

ving Javidson

Davidso!

I.®Daviason

Irvin Davidson

SECRET

Irving

Irving I.

Irvin savedsuidson

sing Davison.

Davidson

Confidential Informant 1633v

*****

ABBREVIATIONS

Add. info...

WDC. .

.....Additional information appearing in

this reference which pertains to

I. Irving Davidson can be found in

the main file or elsewhere in this

summary.

This information may have

been received from a different source.

.....Washington, DC

*****

The following references set forth the activities and

associates of Eric Davidson from approximately June 1944 to July 1945,

•

SECREy (continued)

- 2-

NW 66000 Docld:32310162 Page 3

---

## Page 4

SECRE

WE 568-S# advised that on 1/30/57, Irv Davidson, who had

Salmon, former Israeli Military, Naval and

he had just seen (Mr. C's possibly referring to Itzhak Cohen) (105-70008)e

WF 568-S*freported that on 1/17/58, Cohen and Salmon/S

Irv Davidson, whom [Salmon Stated he had not seen since

Daviason departed for Nicaragua.

On 2/20/58, Mrs. Ruth Brady, Registration Section, Internal

Security Division, US Department of Justice, advised that I. Irving

Davidson was a registered agent for the Government of Nicaragua.

Mrs. Carle, registration clerk, Office of Munitions Control, United

States Department of State, advised on 7/1/58, that Davidson was

registered at that office as an exporter and importer, dealing in

rifles and surplus vehicles.

[05-70008-4 p. 1,3,4J (5)

(20,535

On 10/1/58, Mr. Allan P. Ennis, Auditor of the Sheraton-

Carlton Hotel, WDC, furnished background data relating to the notorious

Bernard Goldfine incident at the Hotel (Details set out). According

to information which had come to his attention concerning the "escapades"

of the inportant guests at the Hotel, Ennis reported that Jack Anderson

(139-727) and Irving Davidson had recently given Jack Walters four or

five $50 bills. Ennis stated that he did not know the connection between

Davidson and Walters, but that Davidson was supposed to have paid $1,000

for a wedding reception for Walters at the Washington Hotel. It was

noted that Walters was an ex-room clerk at the Hotel who had been

discharged for assisting Anderson and Baron Shacklette (139-727) in the

Goldfine incident.

139-727-14

(49)

(S [CIA, Rome](protect identity), memorandum dated 2/12/65,

disclosed that Stephen Czarnecki, a Nicaraguan residing in Paris, was GO.

(continued)

SECRET

• -5-

NW 66000 Docld:32310162 Page 4

---

## Page 5

(continued)

SECRET

It was noted that Davidson advised Captain Mahaney that

neither he nor Pedro de Mesones (not identified) trusted MM 639-S

(known to them only as Howard Davis - protect) in view of his

(MM 639-S) close association with Angel Perez Vidal, a Castro associate.

5297539-295 p. 3708(U)

On 4/28/59, Rafael Berrido, 551 West 157th Street, NYC,

former Dominican Vice-Consul in NYC, advised that he had no knowledge of

any attempt by Irving Davidson to obtain support from the Dominican

Consulate in NYC for anti-Communist propaganda. In connection with the

recent anti-Castro picketing in Washington, DC, Berrido stated that

Rafael Del Pino, an änti-Castro Cuban, and Pedro De Mesones, who was

in charge of the picketing, were advised on all their activities by

Irving Davidson.

Add. info.

200-237194-759 p. 25-27,42

On 4/28/59, Juan Gomez (105-53899) advised that, to his

knowledge, Irving Davidson made no attempt to obtain support from the

Dominican

Consulate, NYC, in connection with anti-Conmunist propaganda

or anti-Fidel Castro activities or picketing.

Add. info.

105-53899-15 p. 14,16

(45)

SI 105-52886-57 p. 13,14,18,19

(45)

- 7-

SECRE!.

NW 66000 Docld:32310162 Page 5

---

## Page 6

SCUNCI

On 10/14/59, Francisco Tabernilla Palermo (105-78397)

advised that he was acquainted with Irving Davidson whom he initially

met in Cuba (date not given) when Davidson sold thirty I-17 tanks to

Cuba, which were delivéred from Nicaragua. Tabernilla stated that he

met

socially with Davidson in Miami, Fla., in approximately June 1959.

105-78397-7 p.1,4

(46)

On 6/3/59, INS, Riviera Beach, Fla., advised that Francisco

Labernilla Palmero (105-18397) was residing at 136 Everglades Ave.,

Palm Beach, Fla., and had obtained permission during the month of

June, 1959, to visit Irving Davidson at the Skyways Hotel, Miami.

MM-639-S advised that Davidson was a registered agent of the

Nicaraguan Government and was in contact with Cuban nationals in the

US who were active in anti-Fidel Castro revolutionary activity.

(Date not given)

105-78397-4 p.1,3,4

(46)

On 3/1/60, Francisco Rodriguez Tamayo (105-78976) advised

that in approximately June 1959, he met in WDC with Arnold Rayber, an

arms dealer, and Irving Davidson, Registered Agent of Israel, to

discuss the purchase of arms for the CRAC (Cruzada Revolucionaria

Anti-Comunista) which had been formed to execute the overthrow of the

Castro Government in Cuba. Rodriguez indicated that he did not know

if subsequent deliveries were made by Rayber or Davidson as he

abandoned the CRAC shortly thereafter.

105 - 8976-23 p. 3

(47)

Arnold Rayber, a confidential informant of the Alcohol and

Tobacco Tax Unit in NYC (protect identity), advised that in June 1959,

he learned that some Cubans were making inquiry concerning possible

purchase of machine gun parts. Upon meeting the "boss" of the group,

REVIEWED BY FBI/JFK TASK FORCE

ON 9/5797

INS

I RELEASE IN FULL.

- 8-

SECRET

(continued)

• FILEASE IT PART

NW 66000 87Ad 32N0182 Page 6 iron r.

---

## Page 7

(continued)

SECRET

Francisco Rodriguez Tamayo (105-78976), Rayber was asked whether he

could furnish any Russian military uniforms, Russian flags or Russian

made guns in order that Rodriguez, in turn, could claim that his

organization, Crusade of Revolutionaries Against Communism (CRAC),

seized the articles in Cuba. Rodriguez instructed Rayber to contact

Irving Davidson, in WDC, who would pay for the articles; however,

Davidson claimed he knew nothing about the arrangement and stated

that he would receive no packages.

105-78976-19 p. 3

(48)

On 7/3/59, William I. Shea, Attorney in the firm of Webb

and Shea, 1001 Connecticut Avenue, NW, WDC (protect identity), advised

that approximately three years previously, he traveled to Venezuela with

I. Irving Davidson (protect identity), in an endeavor to obtain a

construction contract from the Venezuelan Government. In line with

preliminary arrangements, Webb and Davidson met with Gustavo San

Roman, head

of the Vica Company of Venezuela, Pedro Estrada, Venezuelan

"strong man" under President Marcos Perez Jimenez, and Francisco

Aguirre Baca (62-77794) .

On 7/23/59, I. Irving Davidson (protect identity) advised

that at one time, Aguirre and one Tom Hendrick of San Francisco ran a

clandestine lottery in Nicaragua and San Francisco.

Confidential Source Dan R. Hamady, Housing and Home Finance

Agency, 1626 K. Street, NW, WDC (protect identity), advised that in

early July 1959, he was in contact with Davidson at which time Davidson

commented that Francisco Aguirre was "on the other side of the

political fence from the Somoza brothers" who were currently in power

in Nicaragua. Informant indicated that he questioned Davidson's

reliability and stated that Davidson was the registered agent of the

Nicaraguan Government.

62-77794-64 p.C,1-4

(34)

- 9-

SECRET

NW 66000 Docld:32310162 Page 7

---

## Page 8

(continued)

SECREL

formerly occupied at the Wyatt Building, WDC, for the purpose of

issuing propaganda concerning the current political and economic

situation in Cuba. Davidson also stated that he planned to accompany

Gutierrez to the offices of the Registration Section of the Department

On 4/18/60, WF 1205-PSI reported that Sterling had requested

to rent Davidson's former office which would be the headquarters for

the Movimiento Pueblo Libre.

97-4226-2

(16)

st 97-4226-8 p.1-3

(16)

SI para 1

128-321-11 p. 3,4

On 6/6/60, Rudolph Hernandez, cotton broker, Atlanta, Ga.

(protect identity), furnished information concerning his knowledge

of affairs in Central America and the Caribbean. Hernandez stated that

Nicaraguan Ambassador to the US, Guillermo Sevilla Secasa, and I. Irving

Davidson, Registered Agent of Nicaragua who maintained offices in WDC,

were business partners in a plywood plant in Nicaragua. Hernandez

also stated that, according to Francisco Gualberto Cajigas (105-83197),

a check for the sum of five hundred thousand dollars, signed by

Anselmo Aliegro, former Prime Minister of Cuba, was reportedly given

to I. Irving Davidson to purchase arms in Israel for shipment to

Nicaragua.

105-83197-15 p. 8

(21)

The following references appear in the file captioned "Ruben

Oscar Miro Guardia" and contain information regarding Miro's frequent

contacts with I. Irving Davidson during the period of 12/8/59 to 6/7/60.

The contacts involved discussions of a proposed revolution in Panama

(continued)

-13-

SECRET

NW 66000 Docld:32310162 Page 8

---

## Page 9

(continued)

SECREI

observations on the strength of the various anti-Castro organizations

including the Frente Revolucionario Democratico (FRD) (105-87912).

Giberga stated that he had been introduced

to I. Irving Davidson,

1612 K St., N.W., WDC, by Anselmo Alliegro, former President of the

Cuban Senate and mutual friend of Giberga and Davidson. Giberga

stated that he had solicitated Davidson's assistance in attempting

to obtain employment in WDC.

105-87912-60

(22)

SI 105-83719-23

(22)

Investigator Ben Pearson of the US Immigration and Naturali-

zation Service, San Ysidro, Cal., made available a list of suspected

Cuban agents compiled as of 11/1/60, which list contained the name of

I. Irving Davidson. The results of investigation disclosed that Davidson

was registered with the Department of Justice as an agent for the

Government of Nicaragua.

REVIEWED BY ER/JFK TASK FORCE

ON 9/5/97

A RELEASE IN FULL

• RELZASE IN PANT

Copy of list enclosed

25-0787-312 encl-p. 91804)

I TOTAL DENIAL

asd Air Attache And Ayraham Salmon, Economic Counselor concerning

matters relating to 1

postonin Counselor /concerning

REFERENCE

105-10828-445 (Director's Quotation)

SEARCH SLIP PAGE NUMBER

-744

(45,53)

(53)

(18)

(continued)

-15-

NW 66000 Docld:32310162 Page 9

---

## Page 10

(continued)

REFERENCE

105-10828-755

-758

-774

- 839

(5)

-1040

SECRET

SEARCH SLIP PAGE NUMBER

(18,535

(18,457

(18,457

(79)

(19)

In response to a request and by letter dated 3/27/61, AAG

was furnished a summary of pertinent information relating to the

individuals or firms occupying space at 1612 K Street, NW, WDC.

A summary memorandum dated 3/23/61 on I. Irving Davidson,

who maintained offices at the above address, disclosed that Davidson

was born on 1/19/21, at Pittsburgh, Pa., and had resided in WDC

since approximately

the early 1940's. Davidson was employed by the

War Production Board from 1941 to 1944, and began his career with

public relations thereafter. He was registered with the Foreign Agents

Registration Section, Department of Justice, as an agent for the

Governments of Nicaragua, Ecuador and Israel, dealing primarily in

arms. The summary was concluded by reiterating information concerning

Davidson's association with James R. Hoffa, President of the International

Brotherhood of Teamsters, and with known hoodlums and his Latin American

activities.

Copy of Memorandum enclosed

62,5-7720 enclop. 3-5 (Summary 4/23/62)

SI 62-5-7684

(55)

In response to a request by AAG, the files of the Passport

Office, Department of State, and the records of the Chesapeake and

Potomac Telephone Company, WDC, were reviewed on 4/11/61 and 4/10-20/61,

respectively, in connection with the activities of the occupants of

Room 306, 1612 K Street, NW. It was noted that among the individuals

(continued)

-16-

• NW 66000 Docld:32310162 Page 10

---

## Page 11

MM 492-S advised that on

$ dE, he was contacted by

I. Irving Davidson, Registered Agent of Nicaragua, with offices in WDC.

Davidson reportedly inquired about a check in the amount of $12,500,000

presumably drawn by, or on behalf of, Fulgencio Batista, former

President of Cuba.

Davidson also requested Informant to identify one

Prado or Pardo and Sam Kay whom Informant identified as an international

gangster during the Batista regime in Cuba. Davidson remarked that

the transaction was "a clean deal" and Informant speculated that

Davidson might be involved in the purchase or sale of arms.

105-107338-8

(245

In accordance with a request from the AAG, the books and

records of Arthur L. Quinn (97-4768), 1625 K. Street, NW, WDC, were

reviewed pursuant to Section 5 of the Foreign Agents

Registration Act

of 1938, as amended, and Rule 501 of the Act. The material contained

several

references to I. Irving Davidson, primarily in connection with

a mutual interest in the sugar industry.

As the representative of the

largest of the two sugar mill operations in Ecuador, Davidson appeared

and presented the case for the entire sugar industry of Ecuador. before

the Committee on Agriculture, US House of Representatives, 5/24/62.

(Details set out.)

97-4768-6 p. 21,38-40,55

526,510

The following references contain information/concerning

the association between I. Irving Davidson and Brigadier General

•. M. S. Soeripsoerarso (105-106513), Military

Attache of the Embassy

of Indonesia,

UNDC, in connection with Davidson's duties as Registere

Agent for the Indomesian National Army. Davidson made available a

that his appointment was obtained through

who arranged the initial interview

On 1/30/62 and 6/11/62, Davidson furnished WFO with information

concerning his duties and the type of information requested by the

Indonesians.

SECKST

(continued)

- 20 -

NW 66000 Docld:32310162 Page 11

---

## Page 12

(continued)

REFERENCE

SECRET

SEARCH SLIP PAGE. NUMBER

(24)

(24,477)

The following references in the file captioned "Frank Marion

Austin; Glen Paulson Bevan" contain information concerning a check for

the amount of 122 million dollars which was drawn by or on behalf of

Fulgencio Batista, former President of Cuba, and in which I. Irving

Davidson expressed an interest in April 1962. The references indicated

an in Pret den Apol 1962.

that through July 1962, Davidson, Subjects Austin and Bevan, Sam Kay,

a reputed international gangster, and Al (Abe) Goodman, an associate

of Sam Kay, were concerned about the whereabouts of the check and its

eventual denouement.

(Details and results of interviews with above

individuals set out.)

REFERENCE

SEARCH SLIP PAGE NUMBER

97-4592-56 p. C-2

-61

-89 p.1,9-19

-103 p.1-4

(16)

(16)

(16)

(16)

Informed or not Sit that on he no sy OF te aida, o

letter he had recently written to Luis Somoza, President of Nicaragua,

advising him to keep things moving and that Nicaragua would be easier

than Cuba.

(Details set out.)*g

It was noted that Davidson was registered with the Department

of Justice as an agent of the Republic of Ecuador and of the Republic

of Nicaragua. On 7/5/62, Davidson filed an amendment to his registration

stating he had been retained on a contingent fee basis to help obtain

a sugar quota for the Republic of Ecuador.

522208022-93

SECRE

UNLI

-21-

NW 66000 Docld:32310162 Page 12

---

## Page 13

SECREL

On 10/15/62, [WE 970-s* advised that [Julio C. Morales,

had

contacted [Charlie Goldberg (2-1776)Jef Dallas, Tex. (GoldbergIs

indicated that he had originally attempted to contact I. Irving Davidsor

on a matter of some urgency but determined that Davidson was in

Europe. Goldberg, then proceeded to discuss the purchase of aircraft.

2-1776-1

(2)

WFO letter dated 1/18/63 captioned Unsub; At Suite 306,

1612 K St., N.W., Washington, D.C., In Contact with Albanian U.V.

Delegation, 12/6/62, @concerned the individuals who occupied that

suite. Although it was ascertained that the occupants included

I. Irving Davidson and the Danic Corp. (president - Davidson), no

investigation was contemplated to determine the identity of the

individual or group in contact with the Albanian personnel.](5)

105-0-10040

(18)

On 3/28/63, George Wolfarth, Randall H. Hagner and Company,

1321 Connecticut Avenue, NW, WDC, which firm managed the property at

2480 16th Street, NW, advised that Frank M. Barry (97-3485) was a

resident at the 2480 16th Street address. According to Barry's

rental record, I. Irving Davidson was listed as a personal reference.

Add. info.

97-3485-9 p.A, 2-4,15

(15,

On 4/29/63, ME 1446-s*Jaaviseddthat that Mohammed Dosky 7(5)

Davidson had persuaded some responsible persons in the US Army to

purchase machine guns from Israel, called the UzI. Dosky indicated i

SECRET

(continued)

- 22-

NW 66000 Docld:32310162 Page 13

---

## Page 14

(continued)

SECREL

that Davidson also persuaded the North Atlantic Group (possibly North

Atlantic Treaty Organization) to grant Israeli companies the

concessions or contracts for studying a jet airplane for recommendations

for improvement.

On 7/22/58, Davidson advised The Registration Section, United

States Department of

Justice, that one of his foreign principals was

Israeli Military Industries.

Davidson later advised that his activity

on behalf of Israeli Military Industries was concerned primarily with

the promotion and attempted sale of the UZI Submachine Gun.

[65 - 55156-546] (S)

(11)

On 7/16/63, INE 970-s* Keported that I. Irving Davidson hadd

contacted one Bob Thompson (Phonetic) in NYC in order to discourage the

further involvement of John (Duke) Wayne, the movie actor, in a business

venture with Frank M. Barry (97-3485). Davidson indicated that Barry

had no funds and that Wayne was certain to lose money in such a deal.

(Details set out.)

97-3485-17

The following references in the file captioned "Anti-Fidel

Castro Activities" contain information relating to I. Irving Davidson

and his participation in the activities coinciding with Castro's visit

to the US. During the period of 4/14-16/59, Davidson made arrangements

for handbills, placards and pickets and reportedly participated in a

demonstration on 4/16/59. In addition, Davidson provided financial

assistance to the anti-Castro groups.

On 5/1/59, 4/7/60, 8/9/63 and

8/15/63, Davidson furnished information concerning his contacts with

Dr. Carlos Marquez Sterling, former Cuban Senator, and other anti-Castro

group leaders and his offer

to furnish former office space in the

Wyatt Building, WDC, which was to be used as the headquarters for the

various anti-Castro groups. (Results of interviews set out.)

SEGNEL

(continued)

-23-

NW 66000 Docld:32310162 Page 14

---

## Page 15

(continued)

SECRET

legislation was necessary to regulate activities of representative of

foreign clients. In his foreign agent's registration with the Justice

Department, Davidson listed a Murchison Construction Company among

his clients.

58-5520-A "The Evening Star" 2/4/64

(3)

NY 3936-C (137-8862) advised that on 3/1/64, he spoke with

I. Irving Davidson, WDC Public Relations Counsellor, who indicated that

he was extremely friendly with the Special Assistant to the Attorney

General Hooker who was assigned to the prosecution staff in the trial

of James Hoffa in Chattanooga, Tenn. Davidson claimed a close associa-

tion with Hoffa, agreed to aid Informant in securing mortgages from

the Teamsters Pension Fund and discussed a business venture whereby he

and Hooker planned to import beef cattle from France.

137-8862-138

(30%

During the course of an investigation conducted by SA's

of the San Francisco Office in connection with another matter,

Stewart B. Hopps (63-7893) made reference to a signed statement

executed by him on 4/2/64 for the NYO. Hopps recalled that the

individual he referred to in the signed statement as the teamsters

personal Public Relations Counsel in WDC, was Irving Davidson or

Davison, a public relations man for James Hoffa in WDC.

63-7893-166

(37,5475

Bureau memo dated 6/23/64 captioned "Foreign Political

Matters - Haiti" and copies of State Department communications enclosed

therewith pertained to the sale of aircraft to Haiti and the individuals

reportedly involved in the arrangements. A communication dated 6/4/64

indicated that nothing had been heard from Irving Davidson since his

SECRET

(continued)

-25-

NW 66000 Docld:32310162 Page 15

---

## Page 16

(continued)

SECRET

departure from Haiti in late March 1964, at which time he sought the

release of one Rudy Tippenhauer. (No further details.)

Communications dated 6/22/64 pertain to Davidson's contacts

with the State Department concerning his knowledge of the sale.

(Details set out.)

Copies of communications enclosed

109-12-217-985 encl.p.1,2,8

(20,48)

In an article captioned "Davidson Denies Haiti Arms Story,"

"The Washington Post and Times Herald," in the 9/30/64 issue, printed

retraction for an article printed on

the previous day reporting a visit

to Port-au-Prince, Haiti, in May by I. Irving Davidson and two Dallas

arms suppliers. The previous statement had also indicated that Haiti

had obtained two American I-28 planes from the US which caused

Davidson to deny that he was involved in the shipment of the planes.

In addition, the 9/30/64 issue carried an article captioned

"US Planes Smuggled to Duvalier," which described the movement of the

shipment of I-28 fighter planes which were being smuggled from Texas

to Haiti through Mexico.

According to the article, the planes were

purchased in Dallas by Hiati's Banque Commercial president Clemard

Joseph Charles (105-111994).

225-111994-A "The Washington post

and Times Herald" 9/30/64

Ine Following references in the file captioned "Embassy

of Nicaragua" (entain information pertaining to thefcontacts betweer

I. Irving Davidson and Colonel Julio C. Morales, Nicaraguan Military

and

Air Attache and Charge d'Affaires at that establishment. Davidson,

in Morale during the perica at a cover 1/an me con c

130156 aguan aguan or mast in S

Somoza and political matters in Nicaragua. Information was also set

out concerning Davidson's contacts with and efforts to secure bulletproof

vests from the Bureau.

-26-

(continued)

SECRET

NW 66000 Docld:32310162 Page 16

---

## Page 17

(continued)

REFERENCE

SECRET

100-143895-45

-46

-51

-55

-61

-63

-65

-69

-71

-80

-81

-53 (Director's Notation)

- 87(5)

-91

-93

-97

-98

-99

-102

-96 (Director's Notation)

-151|

-159

- 199.

SEARCH SLIP PAGE NUMBER

(42)

(42)

(42)

(42)

(42)

(53)

(42)

(43)

(43)

(43)

(43)

(43)

(43)

(43)

(43)

(43)

(43)

(43)

(44)

(44)

(44)

(44)

(17)

(18--

(1-8)

(44)

The following references pertain to the registration statements

filed by I. Irving Davidson as an agent of a foreign principal, as

furnished by the Internal Security Division of the Department, and

Reports of the AG to the Congress of the United States.

DATE ON FILE

FOREIGN PRINCIPAL

4/30/55

Republic of Nicaragua, General

A. Samoza, President

SECRET

- 27-

REFERENCE & SEARCH

SLIP PAGE NUMBER

97=0-708

(14)

(continued)

NW 66000 Docld:32310162 Page 17

---

## Page 18

(continued)

SECREI

role of the Cuban Constitutional Unity, Inc. (105-143044), which

intended to unify the Cuban exiles in the US as well as in Latin America.

Reboso stated that he was furnishing the information at the suggestion

of I. Irving Davidson, an individual engaged in public relations in

the WDC area.

105-143044-2

(24)

On 12/21/65, CG 6689-PC (137-9816) advised that during a

recent trip to Detroit, Mich., he had arranged to meet with Leo "Bookie"

Schaeffer in an effort to assist Schaeffer in obtaining a position as

a sales representative for a steel firm located in Windsor, Ontario,

Canada. Informant further advised that Irving Davidson, a "5%er"

from WDC, was employed by Schaeffer to help him obtain customers in his

new sales job for the steel firm.

137-9816-9

(49)

By letter dated 3/16/66, Los Angeles Office furnished a

review of the accomplishments and future potential of LA 4738-PC

(137-14109). According to this data, Informant had become acquainted

with I. Irving Davidson, public relations man from WDC, who owned a

tract of land in Beverly Hills. Davidson was previously associated with

Fred Black, former lobbyist for North American Aviation, and Robert

G. Baker*. Davidson had reportedly contacted Informant in Los Angeles

and upon his return to Los Angeles from WDC, Davidson and Informant were

scheduled to meet concerning the disposal of the land owned by Davidson.

137-14109-2

(30)

*Secretary to the US Senate Majority

SECRET

- 32-

NW 66000 Docld:32310162 Page 18

---

## Page 19

SELKLI

The following reterences which appear in the file dual-

captioned "Julio Aton Constanzo Palau; Gerald Patrick Hemming; et al;"

set forth conflicting statements concerning the group of trained

Cuban exiles who were recruited during the Summer of 1965 to fight

against the communist elements in the Dominican Republic. I. Irving

Davidson, who maintained close association with Dominican General

Antonio Imbert Barreras, was reported to be instrumental in organizing

the group and backing the plan financially. The group was reported

to have been formed by Hemming while Constanzo appeared to be a leader

within the group. Davidson was reported to be in contact with the

Pentagon and the State Department to obtain approval of the plan.

The references disclosed that Davidson conferred with

individuals interested in the anti-Castro movement in Miami in June

1959 and visited the DR in March 1959 and June 1965.

The above Dominican plan apparently failed to materialize

and on 6/27/66, Davidson denied any association with Hemming or

Constanzo, any

knowledge or connection with the DR scheme or financial

backing to the project.

(Results of interviews set out.)

REFERENCE

2-1917-2 encl.p.3

-6

-8 encl.p.3,4

-21 encl.p.1

-23 encl.p.2

- 29

- 32

SEARCH SLIP PAGE NUMBER

(2)

(32,57)

(27

(32)

(2)

(not indexed)

(2)

[J 584-Stladvised that on 6/30/66, Jose Antonio Benite CAne

(97-5079) stated that he and other individuals planned to purchase

Hotel Hispaniola in Santo Domingo. Benitez also stated that he had

conferred with a man named Davidson whom informant believed to be

I. Irving Davidson, a WDC lobbyist, and General Gleason whom Benitez

described as head of the Bank of Chicago, prior to Davidson's and

Gleason's departure from San Juan for Santo Domingo to meet with

Joaquin Balaguer, the Dominican Republic President. Benitez advised

PR

(continued)

-34- SECRET

NW 66000 Docld:32310162 Page 19

---

## Page 20

(continued)

SECRET

Informant that Davidson was the individual who financed Balaguer and

that Gleason was the head of the Veterans Administration under President

John F. Kennedy.

97-5079-7 p.2,3

(16)

SI 109-12-211-11197

(26)

NY 3936-C-TE (137-8862) reported on 9/23 and 26/66, that

he recently spoke with Jack McCarthy regarding Governor Rockefeller's

campaign and contacted

Nat Veloshen. Veloshen indicated that he would

see I. Irving Davidson in Washington on Informant's behalf. Informant

stated that he desired to obtain information from Davidson concerning

gambling interests in the Caribbean area. (No further details.)

137-8862-234

(80)

The references set out hereafter appear in the file captioned

"Haitian Revolutionary Activities" and set forth information relating

to the attempted invasions of Haiti which was furnished primarily by

I. Irving Davidson from 8/1/63 to 12/12/66. Davidson provided information

regarding the leadership, source of funds,

armaments, and participants,

the latter of which included groups of exiled Cubans

and Haitians.

(Details set out.)

In connection with a registration matter, Davidson, on

12/16/64, indicated that he was not required to complete the necessary

registration due to the fact that he was "working closely" with the

State Department and the Federal Bureau of Investigation.

The

misapprehension on Davidson's part was brought to his attention in both

instances.

REFERENCE

SEARCH SLIP PAGE NUMBER

105-95677-236

- 237

(22)

(23)

(continued)

-35 -

NW 66000 Docld:32310162 Page 20

---

## Page 21

(continued)

REFERENCE

Arsenio Rojas

97-5100-2

- 9

-11

-13

-15

SECRET

SEARCH SLIP PAGE NUMBER

(77)

(17)

(17)

(17,42>

(17)

IN 984-S-laavised that 9g 9/13/67, LAlized Ricart, Counselor (S)

Embassy of the Dominican Republic,PIDC, was attempting to locate IX

Irving Davidson for a meeting with one Fred Goff who was writing an

article on US and Dominican sugar interests. (Details set out.)

109-12-211-12631

(28)

The following references appear in the main files of the

individuals listed below and set forth the association between I.

Irving Davidson and the criminal element from January 1949 to October

1967.

Due to this association, Davidson frequently furnished information

relating to the activities of the underworld.

Davidson was reported to be close to and in frequent contact

with James R. Hoffa. Davidson was reportedly instrumental in

negotiating several loans with the Teamsters Union Pension Fund for

which he received sizable fees and attended the Hoffa trial in

Nashville, Tenn., in November 1962.

The references set forth considerable background data

on Davidson, disclosed that he was a registered agent for Israel,

Nicaragua and Ecuador and indicated that he traveled to Florida,

New York

k, Pennsylvania and England.

SECRET

(continued)

- 38-

NW 66000 Docld:32310162 Page 21

---

## Page 22

(continued)

NAME

James Riddle Hoffa

James Riddle Hoffa;

Telephone Toll Records

James Riddle Hoffa;

Miscellaneous - Information

Concerning

James Riddle Hoffa

Miscellaneous- Information

Concerning

James Riddle Hoffa, et al;

Miscellaneous-Information

Concerning

Antonio Ripepi

John Roselli

Julius Salsbury

NW 66000 Docld:32310162 Page 22

REFERENCE

SECRET

63-7031-3

SEARCH SLIP

PAGE NUMBER

(10)

63-5327-1528

-1647

-1671

-1675

-1782

-1819

-1872

-2239

63-7835-10

-20

63-7985-11

-12

-16 p. 2-7,9,10

-18

92-3018-12 p.7-10,58

(Extensive background

data set out)

-14 p.6,15,26-

29,120

-46

137-8613-2 (Director's

Notation)

92-3267-611 p.18

92-4974-186

- 268

SECRET

-41-

(10)

(59%)

(10)

(37%

(37)

( 10)

$13,407

(13,405

(x3)

(30)

(13)

(405

(13)

(continued)

---

## Page 23

(continued)

DATE

8/18/66

9/9/66

9/9/66

9/9/66

9/20/66

11/14/66

11/22/66

10/5/67

10/28/67

10/31/67

12/21/67

7/8/68

SUBJECT OF FILE

- REFERENCE AND SEARCH SLIP

Scited

PAGE NUMBER

Hector Claudio Peralta

Political Matters-

Dominican Republic

Political Matters-

Dominican Republic

Political Matters

Dominican Republic

Martin Luther King

105-156247-3

(25)

109-12-211-11564

(26>

109-12-211-11578

(26)

109-12-211-11634

(26)

100-106670-2780

(42)

100-106670-2793

(42)

Political Matters-

Vietnam

Assassination of President

John I. Kennedy

Political Matters-

Vietnam

Carlos Joseph Marcello;

SA Patrick J. Collins,

Jr.-

Victim

109-12-330-338

(28)

62-109060-5837

(8)

208-12-330-353 (irector a

Notation)

89-1333-100

(x2)

On 9/16/68, WF 1456-Sx/advised that on the same date,

de Paredes at the

by Davidson as Executive Director of Intercomsa. 5)

109-12-223-2233

(28)

SECREA

-46-

NW 66000 Docld:32310162 Page 23

---

## Page 24

(continued)

DATE

REFERENCE

11/15/61

11/15/61

6/11/62

6/25/62

7/10/63

109-12-212-128

109-12-331-297

105-12368-170

109-12-331-306

97-3485-21 p.1,3,6-9

add. info.

2-1622-242 p.A,1-5

105-65100-11 p.9-13,18

SEARCH SLIP

SECRET PACE NUMBER

(26)

(280) 0103

(705

(28-)

(x5)

(2)

130%

8/1/63

8/8/63

8/1/63

8/3/63

8/5/63

8/23/63

8/25/63

11/8/63

2/10/64

2/11/64

3/10/64

5/15/64

109-12-211-1964

58-5520-334 p.1,2,8

109-12-217-958

(85-68554-4 p. 157(5)

58-5205-331

-333

- 334 p. 3

105-117594-4

(25)

x35

(26)

12/16/64

12/22/64

4/13/65

8/6/65

105-124462-45 encl.p.1,2

109-12-210-5286

(not indexed)

<3)

(33)

(24)

(24)

(25)

SECRET (continued)

- 48-

NW 66000 Docld:32310162 Page 24

---

## Page 25

REFERENCES NOT INCLUDED IN THIS SUMMARY

SECREL®

The following references on I. Irving Davidson and Irving

Davidson located in files maintained in the Special File Room of the

Records Branch, Files and Communications Division, were not reviewed,

and it is not known whether they are identical with the subject of this

summary:

REFERENCE

62-109231-10 encl.p. 6

64-330-217-357

- 358

-359

-363

-364

-424

-509

(S

100-143895-145

105-122316-191

SEARCH SLIP PAGE NUMBER

(36>

(10)

(10)

(10)

(37)

(37)

(37)

(37)

The following references on Irving Davidson located in

files maintained in the Office of the Assistant Director, Crime

Records Division, were not reviewed, and it is not known whether they

are identical with the subject of this summary:

REFERENCE

94-40154-10X2

-11X

SEARCH SLIP PAGE NUMBER

(40)

(41)

See the search slip filed behind file for a reference on this

subject which is a log, and therefore was not abstracted.

- 51-

SECRET

NW 66000 Docld:32310162 Page 25

---

