# DOCID-32362700

## Page 1

JEK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION

FORM

99999999999991

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER : 104-10121-10355

RECORD

SERIES

: JEK

AGENCY FILE

NUMBER

80T01357A

DOCUMENT

INFORMATION

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM : ERVAN E. KUHNKE, JR. ACT CHIEF ID,

TO : CHIEF, ID

TITLE : CENTRAL COVER STAFF REQUESTED AN EXPEDITE QKENCHANT

CLEARANCES.

DATE: 02/14/1969

PAGES

: 2

SUBJECTS

: JEK ASSASSINATION

QKENCHANT CLEAR

DOCUMENT TYPE

: PAPER

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

RESTRICTIONS

1A

CURRENT STATUS

RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE

OF LAST REVIEW

: 05/26/04

COMMENTS

: JFK44: El : 20040225-1049015

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination FRecords Collection Act of

1 992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#: NW

65924 Date: 10-26-2021

[R]

- ITEM

IS

RESTRICTED

104-10121-10355

NW 65924 Docld:32362700 Page 1

---

## Page 2

SECRET

14 February 1969

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, ID

SUBJECTS

: MAHEU, Peter Robert #234 529

MAHEU, Robert A. #1l1 540

MEIER, John Herbert #517 843

ELLIS, Richard Allen #551 433

1. By memorandum dated 5 February 1969 Central Cover Staff

has requested an expedite QKENCHANT clearance for Peter MAHEU, a

former Office of Security clerical employee, and the son of Robert

A. MAHEU.

2. By memorandum dated 12 February 1969 Central Cover Staff

has also requested a QKENCHANT clearance on Richard Allen ELLIS.

ELLIS is employed by Robert A. MAHEU and Associates as a bookkeeper

in Las Vegas, Nevada.

3. Robert A. MAHEU, the owner of Robert A. MAHEU and associates,

was granted a Covert Security Clearance on 30 August 1954 to permit

his use by Central Cover Staff as a covert associate under Project

IPHIDDEN.

According to Central Cover Staff, he has been utilized

since that time and the above firm isme

For an agent in South America. Robert A. MANu and Associates icover

reportedly a public relations activity whose principal and perhaps

only client is Howard Hughes.

At one time Robert A. MAHLU was also

involved in providing investigative and security protection for Hughes

and his enterprise and the Agency utilized both the Washington, D.C.

and Los Angeles offices of MAHEU's organization.

4. Office of Security's concern over the utilization of Robert

A. MAHEU was first expressed in July 1964. (See memorandum to DDS

from Charles W. Kane dated 22 July 1964).

5. On 14 July 1968 ID/1 reteived a request for a Covert Security

Approval to permit utilization of John Herbert MEIER in connection

with the latter's employment with Robert A. MAHEU and associates.

view of DDP policy as set forth in CSI 50-10 regarding use of employees

of US private detective investigative agencies, the use of METER was

discussed with Central Cover Staff; the writer was assured that the

firm Robert A. MAHEU and associates, which the Agency is using for cover

purposes, is no longer associated with investigative or security activities

(See Central Cover Staff memorandum for the record dated 30 July 1968). (Alviva

Exciuded trom astomalle

demngreding and

declassification

SECRET

---

## Page 3

SECREI

However, it appears that Robert A. MAHEU does in fact own, or is a

co-owner of the Bel Air Patrol which is one of the organizations

that is currently establishing security services for Howard Hughes.

(See IAFO RUC dated 29 July 1968, Subject: METER, John Herbert,

#517 843 and the above cited Central Cover Staff

memorandum).

6. This matter is being brought to your attention because

of the possible interpretation that the use of Robert A. MAHEU

possible interpretations

and Associates conflicts with CSI 50-10, and the undersigned believes

that the matter should be reviewed for that reason prior to ID/l's

processing of the Covert Security Approval request on Peter

MAHEU and Richard Allen ELLIS.

7. Central Cover Staff takes the position that the use of

Robert A. MAHEU and Associates does not conflict with CSI 50-10

in as much as that firm is now solely engaged in public relations

activities; they believe that Robert A. MAHEU's ownership or

interest in the organizations currently providing security and

investigative service to Howard Hughes is irrelevant. The under-

signed agrees with this position.

Taran Enline

Acting Chie I

plato n9-0551a92-Ci51 salie.

3617/69

SECRET

---

