# DOCID-32347919

## Page 1

Date: 12/14/04

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

...../

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER

: 104-10067-10209

RECORD SERIES : JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

: 80T01357A

DOCUMENT

INFORMATION

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM : BRECKINRIDGE, SCOTT D., OLC

TO : BLAKEY, ROBERT, HSCA

TITLE :

"LETTER CONCERNING NOSENKO DRAFT."

DATE

:: 01/01/1963

PAGES : 5

SUBJECTS : NOSENKO

HSCA REPORT

JFK ASSASSINATION

BAGLEY PETE

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER

CLASSIFICATION : CONFIDENTIAL

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

05/25/04

COMMENTS: JFKI2: P4: 20031216-1025958

Heleased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination

Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

Case#N 65924 Date: 10-25-2021

[a]

ITEM

IS

RESTRICTED

104-10067-10209

NW 65924 Docld:32347919 Page 1

---

## Page 2

:.

CONFOR ITAL

• THE DIRECTOR OF CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE

WASHINGION, D. C. 20505

Office of Legislative Counsel

OLC 79-0113/n

Mr. G. Robert Blakey

Chief Counsel and Director

Select Committee on Assassinations

House of Representatives

Washington, D.C.

20515

Dear Bob:

Herewith are comments on the Nosenko draft.

In commencing, it should be noted that Tennent Bagley remains

under cover, retired abroad. We are obliged to honor that cover,

which he has not moved to have modified. To expose his true

status as a former CIA employee could have repercussions in his

present situation that we must accept as significant. When he

was here in November 1978, he was advised of steps necessary

to remove his cover, in the event he decided to go overt in this

matter; he took no steps to alter his cover status. It remains

classified. We therefore request that the example set in the

Hart testimony, of referring to Mr. Bagley by the title of Deputy

Chief, SB Division, be followed in this draft.

Following are detailed comments:

NOSENKO

Testimony of Nosenko

Page 1, Lines 15 and 18. KGB agents should read KGB officers.

page 2, lines 3 through 20

Deryabin and Golitsyn-are-identified

here for all intents and purposes (except by-name). Suggest the following

rewrite:

two

same KGB Directorate as Nosenko, and 2) one of them had

information about the KGB that was outdatea.

""'Introduction, Page 3.

Change the first sentence"of the last para-

graph to read "The first individuals interviewed by the Committee

were

two former KGB officers."

•Page 3, line 13.-Change "agents" to-"'officers."

NW 65924 Docld:32347919 Page 2

#6095

---

## Page 3

Page 4, line&, Delete "American" in-front-of GIA.

Page 4, bine 11, Delete "Americads" in front of FbIs

Page 4 of Nosenko's actual testimony, last response.

Suggest

changing word "defectionist" to "defector."

Page 6, line 6. Delete "voinan in Utah" and insert "individual."

Page 6, lines 20 and 21. Delete "and even was a co-op from CIA."

Page 32, line 12. Delete cryptonym AEDONOR.

20

Page 32, lines 14 and 15. Delete "Thonas A. Ryan" and insert

"James C. Michaels."

Page 32, lines 20 and 24-25.

Delete name "Chomas A. Ryan" and

substitute "Janes Michaels."

Page 32, line 22. Delete SR/CI/KGB.

Page 33, lines 1-3. Delete "Thomas A. Ryan" and insert "James C.

Michaels" and "James Michaels" respectively.

Page 37, line 8. Delete name "Ryan" and substitute name "Michaels."

Page 38, line 23. Delete name "Deryabin" and substitute

"sf."

-Page 43, lines 8, 14, 16, 21, and 22. Name should be "Fedoseyev. "

Page 48, line 24. Delete name "Ryan"' and substitute name "Michaels."

Page 51, line 5. Delete "Canp Perry" and insert "U.S. Government

property outside the Washington area."

third page of statement made by Nosenko to HSCA 8/7/78, last

paragraph. Suggest placing month "October" in brackets after "November" to

reflect correct date.

Page 51. Deposition of Tom Ryan (Michaels).

Throughout this

deposition, the name "Michael" is used.

the formally registered alias

was "James C. Michaels" with a final "s." A .....

2

NW 65924 Docld:32347919 Page 3

÷ Er

---

## Page 4

Solie Testimony

Page 56, line 17.

Statement should read, "The transcript will

reflect I asked him to prepare it in his own words on a previous day,

a day or two before."

Page 58, line 9.

"Assuming" not "assing."

Page 59, line 23. Delete "Uh-uh" and substitute "yes."

Page 66, line 20. Delete comma and "by down there" and substitute

"and by Sr."

Page 69, line 1l. Even though Mr. Klein undoubtedly used the word

"agents", the word "officers" should be there.

Murphy Testimony

Introduction. Date on line 4 is wrong; should be 1964-67.

Pages numbered 4 and 5, lines 24-25 and line 5, respectively.

Solie not Soley.

Page 20, line 20. Change "propose" to "expose."

Michaels Testimony

Page 5, line 7. Delete

"Polish" and substitute "bloc."

Section #6 Entitled "Letters of CIA of 9/1/78 and FBI of 1/8/79"

Second page of response to Question #3, second paragraph.

"In 1976

Nosenko was paid $10,000.

•" Date should be changed to 1978.

On Question #3 of CIA Response to ESCA Interrogatory

In fourth paragraph change "In 1976" to "In 1978 Nosenko" etc....

Bagley Testimony

Page 7, line 32 of Bagley's prepared statement and page 25, line 16

Of, his testimony. Mention of penetration of most sensitive level and heart

of French Intelligence. Pefer to DO on disclosure of this information.

NW 65924 Docld:32347919 Page 4

---

## Page 5

HAL

Typewritten Report

Page 52, line 5. Change "CIA Staff" to "CI Staff."

Page 65, lines 15-16. Mr. Bagley, was not a security officer,

experienced or otherwise.

Page 71, line 25 and Page 72, line 1. Delete "or the"Soviet

military intelligence."

and da- [sic]

Page 97, line 14.

Delete "agents" and insert "officers."

Page 97, line 20.

Delete "or agents" from "senior officials

or agents in the case."

Page 98, line 6. Delete "Department" and insert "Agency."

wist Europe.

Page 99, line 23 and page 100, lines 4-5. The existence of

a Station in Switzerland is clearly indicated.

Page 110, line 13.

Suggest deletion of "American/American's."

Page 111, line 13. Suggest deletion of phrase, "while admittedly

American."

Page 115, line 13. "Foreign liaison services, to our allies."

Defer to DDO on disclosure of this.

Page 122, lines 9 through 16 and lines 19 through 24. This gives

the reader quite an inside look at Agency breakdown and staff/division

duties and responsibilities.

Page 127, lines 18 and 19. Delete "several other Soviet intelligence

people who were in touch with us in one way or another."

Page 134, line 18. Suggest brackets after

"five years" with dates

1962-67 inserted since Mr. Bagley had no control, of Nosenko case after

October 1967. Otherwise it may appear that Me Fithian was referring

to the years 1964-69.

Page 138, line 12. "Foreign liaison agents." Defer to DDO on

disclosure of this; also word agents may not be appropriate.

NW 65924 Docld:32347919 Page 5

---

## Page 6

In his letter to the HSCA and in his oral testimony, Bagley

mentioned CIA's possession of a Secret KGB document concerning

disinformation.

This document was received many years ago from

an East European intelligence officer defector.

Therefore, we

cannot make a strong case for deleting reference to it, although

we wish that Bagley had not mentionea

it.

I understand from your conversation with Rodger that you would

welcome a letter from the Agency, on this section of the report,

for inclusion with it in the final report. Could we have more

details?

• Very truly yours,

S. D. Breckinridge

Principal Coordinator, HSCA

Rogent. a

NW 65924 Docld:32347919 Page 6

---

