# DOCID-32989474

## Page 1

Heleased under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

H992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

56994 Date: 11-02-2021

File #:

100-341652

Serial Scope:

1096

DO NOT

DESTROY

FOIPA# NA

NW 65994 Docld:32989474 Page 1

---

## Page 2

NY 100-78633

SECRET

TABLE OF CONTENTS

RESIDENCE

EMPLOYMENT

FAMILY MATTERS

HEALTH

NEEDLEMAN 'S INTEREST IN TRADE WITH COMMUNIST COUNTRIES

Amtorg Trading Corporation

Four Continent Book Corporation

NARA ARE NANSEN TRU

WATTER ALVIN WEISS

NEEDLEMAN'S ACTIVITIES WITH COMMUNIST PARTY (CP) FRONT

ORGANIZATIONS AND OTHER ORGANIZATIONS

American Committee for Protection

of Foreign Born

"National Guardian"

Citizens Committee for Constitutional

Liberties

National Lawyers: Guild

Teachers Union

T'OTHER CONTACTS OF NEEDTEMAN

NEEDLEMAN'S BANK ACCOUNTS

CHARACTERIZATIONS

Page

2

2

2

3

10

11

11

12

!

17

18

18

30J6SC4

39

- la -

SECRET

WW W5904 Doold:32989474 Page?

---

## Page 3

SECRET

NY 100-78633

ADMINISTRATIVE (Cont'a)

The following information is not being included

in the details of this report because of the sensitivity of

the sources involved and the nature of the information

itself:

Passports /

On December 17, 1963, NY 3401-S* advised that

dustre soner informed NEiDLEMAN that he had nothing new to

concerning the NEEDLEMAN passports.

The informant

related that NEEDLEMAN promised FORER to send him a draft

of an affidavit containing detailed reasons for needing a

passport.

FORER offered to charge NEEDLIVAN only fOr

but NEEDLEMAN said he was going to send him a

he or mo told tim to make at at (AU

Communist Party Activity

On January 4, 1964, NY 694-S* advised that GUS

HALL had decided that because of NEEDLEMAN's present physical

condition, LENA SCHERER, instead of NEEDLEMAN, should hence-

forth give DANNYKRUBIN money Intended for CP, USA youth work.

on January 11: 1904g.

the same informant advised

that NEEDLEMAN gave to ISADORE /WOFSY $1,000.00, which was a

contribution to the or, USA from DoroThY SMIth, former wife

of Senator PAUL DOUGIAS Of Of _ E

(Communtst Party Front Organtzationg 4>7

NY 3401-g* related that

NEEDLEMAN COnSEatbated JOSE FoR 340n the even that the

Court of Appeals of sanctions imposed upon the CP, USA, for

failure to register.

FORER pointed out that he had lost

the appeal of a registration order issued to the American

Committee for Protection of Foreign Born.

FORER said there

was not much life left In this organization, and that he

doubted that resources were available to continue the case * (4)

COVER PAGE

-B-

SECRET

NW 65994 Docld:32989474 Page 3

---

## Page 4

SECRET

(0)

NY 100-78633

ADMINISTRATIVE (Cont'a)

00-408360

JACOE CHILDS N'4

On January 15, 1964,

NY 3225-s* reported that

JACOB CHILDS visited NEEDLEMAN's office that day and

mentioned that JACK COWAN, who was denied admittance to

to the United States a couple of years ago, is very anxious

i to come to the United States, CHILDS indicated that COWAN

would be willing to put up $5,000.00, which NEEDLEMAN COULd

have, If NEEDLEMAN could get him into the United States in

, such

a way that he would not have to come as a witness, or

sign any affidavits. COWAN, according to CHILDS, wanted

to come to the thied statea as a law abiding bussnessman, (Splu)

NEEDLEMAN asked whether COWAN was a CP member.

CHILDS said he was not.

CHILDs mentioned that CONAN 1s

the head of a non-communist dewish organization. a ,

CHTLDS inquired whether FORER and REIN,

Washington,

D.C. attorneys, could do anything.

NEEDLEMAN replied that

they would require all the information (

the status of the CP registration case was clarified.

NEEDLEMAN then discussed with CHILDS the position

i the cr, UsA as regaras certain organizations.

He

nentioned having recently given (raised ?) $100.00 (possibly

to the Citizens Committee for Constitutional Liberties), not

knowing that MIRIAM FRIEDLANDER did not enjoy the support

of the organization (CP ?). CHILDS promised that GUS HAL

would give NEEDLEMAN a list of acceptable organizations.

CHITDS then indicated that GUS HALI was annoyed

with the firm of wolf, Popper and Company because they had:

failed to understand that a substantial contribution they

" had made was not a one-shot proposition but was expected

of. them every year.

8(v)

COVER PAGE

-C-

SECRET

NW 65994 Docld:32989474, Page 4

---

## Page 5

SECRET

NY 100-78633

ADMINISTRATIVE (Cont'a)

ther alon

CHIDS told NEWDLEMAN that until his health improved

Da a to Dime usu filered of handling money to ba

The informant was under the impression that the

problem of setting up a system of communication between

NEEDLEMAN

and the SEBORER brothers in Russia was also dig-

cussed. (p (us

According to NY 3225-S*

NEEDIEMAN gave ChILDS

some letters

Irom JAcOB and Rosy,

ROVINSKY, possibly to show

to GUS HALL. (

On this occasion CHILDS asked whether NEEDLEMAN

knew JACK PERRY in London.

NEEDLEMAN did not know this

Individual but had heard of him as a "big shot" businessman.

CHILDS said PERis is a close friend of JACk COWAN. (5) (4)

NEECLEMAN subsequently introduced SAM BARD to

CHILDS and mentioned that BARD wanted to go into a business.

CHILDS stated it was not a simple matter, but that in a few

weeks someone would be coming down

from

Canada?) and they

could then see what was available.

(и)

[JACK ROVINSKY (EX

(4)

atre, Jacob,

1963, an anonymous source of the

the recipient of an unsigned

Letter fron dAChyRovLiSKY, dated December 11, 1963 (at

Peking. China.

"Wen Yi Pao."

art and particularly the Soviet film director G. CHUKHRAI

in connection with some

Films directed by him. (SM (U)

In this letter ROVINSKY stated that he still

considered "Ballad of

a Soldier" a fine, sensitive, worth-

while anti-war story.

(U)

COVER PAGE

-D-

SECRETI

NW 65994 Docld:32989474 Page 5

---

## Page 6

SECRET

NY 100-78633

ADMINISTRATIVE (Cont'a)

On January 17, 1964,

an anonymous source of the

NYO reported that JACK ROVINSKY wrote NEEDLEMAN an unsigned

letter dated January 5, 1964 (at Peking, China) acknowledging

receipt of a

communication from NEEDLEMAN dated December 18,

1963(1) (4)

ROVINSKY indicated that he ( and his family)

Nexpected to leave China by the end of July or sometime in

August, 1964, although he had a two year leave of absence

(from Cuba), which under certain circumstances could be

extended to three years. He stated that he had signed a

one year contract (with the Chinese) and that he pretty

much expected not to renew it.

absence, he thought he would like to have the experience

of working in another socialist country. ROVINSKY told

NEEDLEMAN that

there was a fundamental

difference between

those who are "invited" to work in a given country, and

those that are not "invited" but come on their own.

He

stated that this difference applied to the level of the

work, classification, and pay,

and was not necessarily

predicates on individual capabilities. or this reason,

ROVINSKY said he would prefer to go to another country on

the basis of an "invitation.

ROVINSKY suggested that working in the Soviet

Union would probably provide the sharpest contrast, but

work in some other country might prove equally interesting.

He indicated that his wife had been teaching English on a

university level, and that he had been working as an "expert"

In the English larguage and also doing some translation work

from Spanish Into English. GW(U)

ROvINSkY ended by saying that he would welcome

any ideas or sugsestions NEEDLEMAN might have (*(U)

On January 23, 1964, the same source reported

that JACK ROVINSkY wrOte NEEDLEMAN an undatec and unsigned

note acknowledging receipt of NEEDLEMAN's letter of

Decemoer 26, 1963:

In this communication

ROVINSKY

that he had

COVER PAGE

-E-

,SECRET

NW 65994 Docld:32989474 Page 6

---

## Page 7

SECRET

NY 100-78633

ADMINISTRATIVE (Cont 'a)

acknowledged regards received from "EPPY" via London.

ROVINSKY remarked that he runs into "EPPY" more frequently

than he does into FRANK (COE ?)

He added that he had seen

FRANk at the New Year's dinner that is given for foreign

he SEBORER Brothers] *)(U)

In january,

'1.964, NY 694-S* advised that on

January 1, 1964, TIM BUCK, Chairman of the Canadian CP,

advised him that while he was In Moscow during the summer

of 1903, NEEDLEMAN had been there too.

suck related that

both he and NEEDUEMAN had been invited to an "exciting

party" which BUCK was unable to attend because of a

previous appointment,

but which

NEEDLEMAN did attend and

subsequently described to BUCK.

MAdame party was given

- 10-x. 1881

ARTHUR

MADAMS and his wife,

DOROTY, in their

apariment in Mescow.

the SIDORER brothers

were also present.

U)

Kussian

NEEDISMAN told BUCK that ADAMS is 77 years

old,

BUCK was surprised

that NEEDLEMAN Knew ADAMS as

well as he apparently did. # (U)

On Jantany o, 1954, Ny 1206-S advised that toursE,

PATERSON informed NEEDLEVAN

that her daughter had written

that she had straightened out the matter of the eyeglasses

(for the SEBORER brothers in Moscow).(S

P(U)

• Information regarding contacts of NEEDLEMAN has

been disseminated to the appropriate individual case files

This information has been carefully considered along with

other data already contained in such files and wherever

necessary additional investigation is being conoucteo.e

COVER PAGE

-F-

SECRETI

NW 65994 Docld:32989474 Page 7

---

## Page 8

SECRET

NY 100-78633

ADMINISTRATIVE (Cont'a)

No specific leads are set out concerning known

individuals with whom NEEDLEMAN had been in contact. When-

ever these persons appear to be engaged in activities that

seem to be consistent with activities

peculiar to a communist

of separate investiga-

etermine whether these individuals are engage

landestine activity in the intelligence or political fields

In this manner, the NEEDLEMAN file operates as a control

file.19u

INFORMANIS

Identity of Source

NY I-1

NY

3401-s*(8p(U)

Nº7

NY

1286-5M1 (S0(2)

T-3

NÝ

3225-S**/(SP(u)

(S)

File Number Where Located

2561-5*

NY T.-5

CSNY 1547-S

NY I-6

FRANCES HOPE DAVIS

Nonchanpton, Mass.

(Request)

NY I-7

SU 253-S*:

NY T-8

NY 3527-S

134-842-3419

100-29100 (Boston)

134-6858-5

COVER PAGE

-G-

SECRET

NW 65994 Docld:32989474 Page 8

---

## Page 9

SECRET.

NY 100-78633

INFORMANTS (Cont'a)

"Identity of Source

•NY I-9

Confidential Mailbox

NYO

peas

NY I-1O

JOSEPH TYSLIAVA

412 Bedford Ave.,

Brooklyn

NY

(Request)

NY T-11

LOUIS F.

BUDENZ

(Request)

File Number Where Located

100-10769-1B659

100-20241

To characterize:

LEONARD BOUDIN

SAM NEUBURGER

ANNETTE RUBINSTEIN

WILLIAM I. STANDARD

100-68223

100-98924

62-8988

100-13430

(U)

NY

T-12

NY 694-5*

(SX(4)

NY T-13

HARRY ZENITH

(PSI, Chicago)

NY I-1

RECSNY 57 (S)

T-15

559-S*

ANY I-16

Former NY 1537-3*

A134-1284 (ORcasT 4)

1534519416)

(p(u)

COVER PAGE

-H-

SECRET

NW 65994 Docld:32989474 Page 9

---

## Page 10

...

NY 100-78633

INFORMANIS (Cont'a)

Identity of Source

AY T-1T

BHLLA V.

DODD

(Request

NY

T-18

388-S*

CA (4)

NY T-19

SORITA PUEBLA

Office Manager

Hecla Press

•225 Varick St.

NYC

(Request)

NY

CG

-2.

1824-57

/yu)

T-22.

Nº 1-23

liKAN" (CG

1-24

334-S (P(U)

T-25

751-S*

C(W)

NW 65994 Docld:32989474 Page 10

SECRET

File Number Where Located

Io characterize:

BLANCH FREEDMAN

RUSS NIXON

PAUL ROSS

MAX SEBORER

CELIA ZITRON

100-102359

100-90750

100-93787

100-118948

100-1944

100-123034

100-57446-4 p. 1

File unknown

100-112768

COVER PAGE

'-I-

'SECRET

(u)

---

## Page 11

SECRET

NY 100-78633

INFORMANTS (Cont'a)

Identity of Source

NY T-26

NATHANIEL GOLDSTEIN

Former NYS AG

6/26/52 letter to Director,

FBI

NY I-27

NY

3477 (PSI)

NY I-28

LA 3512-5 7(8)(4/

NY

1-29

BU 123-S

I-30

1090-54 (Д(4).

NY T-31

Former NH 281-S

(Request)

1-32

File Number Where Located

100-80675-1B1134

100-144252

100-144252

134-14A-1116 (Buffalo)

66-3146-2 (New Haven)

100-26603-1A883

/ NY T-33

OSNY 1

ANI 7-34

CSNY 1990-S

105-18000

105-18000

LEADS

NEW YORK

agoertain Me a rot and to 12 rents no contacts. 121

COVER PAGE

-I-

SECRET

NW 65994 Docld:32989474 Page 11

---

## Page 12

SECRET

NY 100-78633

LEADS (Cont'a)

2. Will continue to monitor NEEDLEMAN's accounts

at the Amalgamated Bank, New York City, and to report

pertinent details. 05 7

COVER PACE

-K-

SECRET!

---

## Page 13

FD-305 (Rev. 9-19-62)

NY 100-78633

SECRET

[X] Subject's name is included in the Security Index.

| The data appearing on the Security Index card are current.

Changes on the Security Index card are necessary and

Form FD-122 has been submitted to the Bureau.

X A suitable photograph X is I is not available.

Subject is employed in a key facility and

charged with security responsibility. Interestea agencies

are

6. 1X1 This report is classified -

_ Confidential

because

(state reason) jindue disclosure of information

furnished by NY I-1, NY T-2, and NY T-4 might

#(K)

compromise these sensitive and productive sources.

7.

• Subject previously interviewed (dates)

ubiect was not reinterviewed because (state reason

8. [ This case no longer meets the Security Index criteria

and a letter has been directed to the Bureau recommending

cancellation of the Security Index card.

9. [X] This case has been re-evaluated in the light of the

Security Index criteria and it continues to fall within

such criteria because (state reason) subject continues

to participate in the affairs of CP front organi-

zations and to hold revolutionary beliefs.

considered a dangerous individual likely to commit

inimical acts.

10. LX subject's sI card xl is

X Subject's activities

tabbing.

is not tabbed Detcom.

I do not warrant Detcom

do

COVER PAGE

-I*-

TU

that

NW 65994 Docld:32989474 Page 13

---

## Page 14

NY 100-78633

ABT, JOHN

ARONSON, JAMES

BAERWALD, H. FRED

BALIAN, DOROTHY

BELFRAGE, CEDRIC

BELFRAGE, JOSEPHINE

BERNSTEIN, BETTY

BIMBA, ANTHONY

BOUDIN, LEONARD

COUS INS, NORMAN

CROWN, JOSEPH

DIAZ, MANUEL

EATON, CYRUS

FAULKNER, STANLEY

FEINSTEIN, JOSEPH

FELIENSTELN, Dr. MIIION

FIELD, OLGA

FLELD, PHILIP

FINEMAN, IRVING

FENK, IRVING

FINK.,

JACQUELINE

FORTAS, ABE

FREEDMAN, BLANCH

FREEDMAN, DAVID

FRIEDLANDER, MIRIAM

FRIEDMAN, MILTON

NW 65994 Docld:32989474 Page 14

'SECRET

INDEX

Page

17,39

11,12,14,19,24,39

11

9939940

19,40

19,40

18,40

12,20,40

16,40

10,41

6,41

7,41

10,41

11,10,4.

3:5,6,7,49

3,42

24,25,42

20,23,24,25, 42

7.2,42

20,43

20,43

19,20,33,43

12,13,43

17,18,44

9,10,44

- 1b -

SECRET

(4)

---

## Page 15

NY 100-78633

SECRET

GETMANSKY, ZINA

GLAGOLEVA, FAINNA

GLASER, EDA

GOLLOBIN, IRA

HABER, DAVID

HALL, ELIZABETH

HUBLEY, ANN

HUELEY, FAITH

HUBLEY, JOHN

HUMBOLDI, CHARLES

IVANOV, IGOR

JOHNSON, ARNOLD

KAPLAN, DOROTHY

KAPLAN, IRVING

KAUFMAN, SIDNEY

KEENEY, MARY JANE

LAMONT, CORLISS

LANE, MARK

LISS, ABE

MC MANUS, JANE

MAC DUFFIE, MARSHALL

MAGDOFF, BEATRICE

MACDOFF, FRED

MAGDOTE, HARRY

MAGDORY,

MALOV, SERGE SI SUI

MARKOFF, ATLAN

MASCOLO, BONNIE

MASCOLO, ELIZABETH

MASCOLO, RICHARD

Page

34,35

33,9,44,45

20,45

21,45

21

18, 45,46

18,21, 45,46

21,46

4,7,46

21,46

24,25, 46,47

21, 22, 24,25,46,47

22,23,24,47

24,47

16,47

28, 4312,73,24,48

12,48

10, 48,49

16,19, 24, 25,49

21,49

8,16, 19,21, 24,25,49

22, 25, 26, 49,50

20,5,007,50

27,50

27,28,50

27,50

NW 65994 Docld:32989474 Page 15

- 10 -

SECRET

---

## Page 16

SECRET

NY 100-78633

SCHNEIDER, KURT

SCHULKIND, GLADYS

SEBORER,

MAX

SEMENOV, KONSTANTIN

SOLASKO, BELLA

STANDARD, WILLIAM I.

STECK, ROBERT

• SIRONG, ANNA LOULSE

SVENCHANSKY, ALEXANDER

SWAN, TOM

USHAKOFF, SERGE P.

WALLERSTEIN, EDWARD

WEISS, WALTER ALVIN

YOUNG, BARBARA

YOUNG, EUGENE

ZUNG, MARTIN

ZITRON, CELIA

ZUSI, EDWARD

Page

32,33,55

34, 55,5,6, 7,56

31, 355518, 29,56,57

13,24,57,58

9,10,58

9,59

35,59

10,59

35,36

35

11, 13, 35,36,60

35,60

12,60

- 10 -

SECRET.

NW 65994 Docld:32989474 Page 16

---

## Page 17

SECRET

NY 100-78633

DETAILS:

Characterizations of individuals with whom

NEEDLEMAN has associated, as well as of the organizations

and publications mentioned in this report, have been set

out in the Appendix. (r)

It is noted that inasmuch as the informants in

this report have not furnished sufficient identifying

information concerning all the individuals named as contacts

OI NEEDLEMAN, It is not known whether in every instance they

are identical with individuals of the same name regarding

whom information from other sources is set out.

Residence

Lon February 22, 1964, NY I-Ladvised that NEEDLEVAN

continues

to reside in apartment 10D at

444 Central Park

West, New York City, with his wife, EDITH NEEDLEMAN.

Emo loyment

(x) (4)

continues the practice of law in his own office

which 1s part of Suite 2810 at 165 Broadway, New York CIty.

Family Matters

Towards the end of beeme o

(gu)

1953, NY I-I advisedle

tease a decent, 195, ho the ories versiays.

LAt the end of January, 1964, the same informant i

learned that EDITH NEEDLEMAN had taken cral and written

examinations to quality Ior a license in guldance worl

soon undergo the required physical examination.

-2-

NW 65994 Docld:32989474 Page 17

SECRET

---

## Page 18

SECRET

NY 100-78633

At the end of December, 1963, NY I-4 advised that

Service thirty day letter in connection with the Amtorg

SEMENOV indicated that at the expiration of

this period of grace an additional thirty days would be

Early in January, 1964, NY T-2 reported that

NEEDLEMAN discussed with JOSEPH EINSTEIN a memorandum

which SEMENOV and FEINSTEIN planned to dictate on January 6,

1964.

FEINSTEIN expected this dictation would be ready by

January Y and that then NEEDLEMAN, or whoever was designated

to handle the matter, could look it over and decide what to

do. NEEDLEMAN declared that he did not want to take the

blame If anything went wrong al(u)

FEINSTEIN expressed annoyance because the Russians

seemed to take the attitude that the Amtorg tax case was a

joke.

He intimated that if SEMENOV could be considered

stupid, MALOV was twice as stupid. FEINSTEiN said he could

not figure out what they had in mind. u

During the first few days of January, 1964, NY T-34

advised that WILLIAM I. STANDARD visited NEEDLEMAN's office

on January 2, 1904. NEEDLEMAN related that SEMENOV and his

wife had dropped in at the NEEDLEMAN apartment on New Year's

Eve, before going to their party at the Soviet Delegation

to the United Nations. NEEDLEMAN mentioned that SEMENOV

and FEINSTEIN were to dictate a "factual memorandum" in

reparation for

the tax case. upring the goverment in connection withd

NEEDLEMAN told STANDARD that he did not want to

be associated with this matter in such a way that the

Russians could blame him if something went wrong.

He and

STANDARD speculated as to the reasons which might be

keeping the Russians from selecting counsel.

NEEDLEMAN

thought

it was possibly that a top level agreement had

already been reachea. dau)

-5-

SECRET!

NW 65994 Docld:32989474 Page. 18

---

## Page 19

SECRET

NY 100-78633

A few days later, NY I-I advised that JOSEPH CROWN

informed NEEDI-EMAN that SEMENOV had recently been in to see

him and had complained that Amtorg was being discriminated

CROWN said he had

CROWN said that SEMENOV had requested leglble

copies of the tax report and had thought of considering

the date of receipt of these legible copies, rather than

the date of the

report, as the beginning of

the thirty

day period.

(1)

CROWN said he had advised against this procedure

inasmuch as Amtorg would probably have to request further

extensions.

reported that NEEDLEMAN called

reflected a boycott of all Soviet cargo by dockworkers on

the eastern seaboard.

NEEDLEMAN expressed the opinion

that the time was now favorable for bringing suit against

the 225 endar stato. Senso seld he mouse shant wits

that SEMENOV and MALOV would be leaving for Moscow on

January 17, 1904] &XU)

FEINSTEIN

stated that he had an eleven page

schedule in Russian, which MALOV had prepared. FEINSTEIN

said he would translate it and give a copy of it to

NEEDLEMAN so that he would know what

It was alt about

when SEMENOV and MALOV returned. (& (u)

During the latter part of January, 1964, NY T-3

related that FEINSTEIN showed NEEDLEMAN the document he

had translated from hussian into anglish, which pertained

Internal Revenue Service. NEEDLEMAN read it and made

-6-

SECRET!

NW 65994 Docld:32989474 Page 19

---

## Page 20

1902.7

NY 100-78633

(544)

84159

Tos taver

(U)

So sugestions concerning the phasing e

this occasion, FEINSTEIN referred to a visit

which MANUEL DIAZ, Amtorg-chauffeur,/had made to NEEDLEMAN.

FEINSTEIN said he

had instructed this individual to tell

the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) should he be

approached, that he did not understand Russian and was,

therefore, not in a position to know anything that was

conspiracy to obstruct justice. He chided FEINSTEIN for

not referring DIAZ to him immediately and said that when-

ever such a situation arises the person approached should

agree to an interview in the presence of an attorney. (lU)

At the end of January, 1964, NY I-2 advised that

FEINSTEIN informed NEEDLEMAN that Amtorg had received a

reply from the Internal Revenue Service stating that a

request for a further extension of time could not. be granted

as the Statute of Limitations was due to expire on June 30, •

1964.

It was suggested, that the statute of limitations

could be extended by executing Forn 872 and returning it

by February 7, 1964.

An extension coula then be obtained

until May 4, 1964, but in no case beyond this dave. (sU)

NEEDLEMAN recommended filling out and sending

in the above form.

8(4)

Towards the end of January, 1964, NY T-2 reported

that JOSEPH FEINSTEIN advised NEEDLEMAN that SEMENOV was

returning to New York City from the Soviet Union the night

of January 29, 1964, and that MALOV was due the following

night,

accompanied by the intarnational Irade Commission

to the United Nations. XU)

[IGOR IVANOV 614

Shortly after the middle of December, 1963,

NY T-1

advised

that PAUL ROSS informed NEEDLEMAN that IGOR

codefendant in an espionage case) had been released under ru)

-7-

iSFARET

NW 65994 Docld:32989474 Page 20

---

## Page 21

SECRET

NY 100-78633

$100,000.00 bail. NEEDLEMAN revealed that the Russians

had discussed the matter with him and had sought his advice

about getting a bondsman who would put up the bail money.

NEEDLEVAN said he had recommended that they put up govern-

ment bonds. (%)(U)

Four Continent Book

Corporation (iCBC)

1'

During

the latter part of December, 1963, NY T-2

reported that EDA CLASER advised NEEDEEMAN that Dun and

Bradstreet had promised to change their report on the FCBC

and to show her the new one.

However, she had heard

nothing further. NEEDLEMAN thought he might get his friend

HARRY MACDONE to request the reBe report

through one of the

companies with which ne is associated,

*(u)

On this occasion NEEDLEMAN mentioned that he had

Isome people in Peking, China, whom he expected to place

fairly good orders for publications.

NESDLAMAN said he

had been wondering whether FCBC would be interested in

their business.

He explained that it wouid involve ordering

the books and shipping them, as American companies woulo

probably not make any direct shipments if they knew where

they were going.

NEEDLEMAN felt that the orders might.

reach a considerable volume.

Nee polume fee

urged EDA GLASER to give

the matter serious consideration.

(1)

Early in January, 1964, NY I-2 Edvised that EDA

GLASER told NEEDLEMAN that

a shipment of

records and arts

and crafts consigned to FCBC had arrived by Holland-

America Line and had been unloaded at Pier 40, New York

City, but that the longshoremen reiused to handle

the secretary-Ireasurer of the International Longshoremen's

official grudgingly agreed to see what he could do.

-8-

BV(U)

SECRET

NWY 0094 Docld:32989474 Page 21

---

## Page 22

SECKEP

NY 100-78633

At the end of January, 1964, NY I-3Lrelated that

EDA GLASER and SERGE XUSHAKOFF visited NEEDLEMAN at his

office on January 31, 1964, to discuss the union contraci

which was soon to be renegotiated. USHAKONE Claimed chau

low that the company was beginning to show a small profit

he FCBC could not grant any wage increases as it was op s)U

NEEDLEMAN urged them not to allow the Russians to

unload large amounts of material which does not sell, and

suggested that i's be sent back if this should happen. (du)

NEEDLEMAN mentioned the possibility that the FCBC

enter the business of accepting cash from inüividuals in

the United States who wish to order products such as

automobiles or refrigerators to

delivered to friends and

relatives in the Soviet Union. (

И)

• NEEDLEMAN

also mentioned

that the FCBC might

sider a tie-in with a business operated by MILION FRIEDMAN,

con

whereby the shipping facilities

the FCBC would be

utilized by FRIEDMAN's company.

ALEXANDER SVENCHANSKY

И)

shortly before

the end of Décember, 1953, NY I-1

advised that ALEXANDER SVENCHANSKY returned to the

United

States fron the Soviet Union the morning of December 22,

1963, and that he later discussed with NEEDLEMAN the matter

Of MILION FRIEDMAN'S firm, Iwo Continent Commodity Corpora-

6100(5) (4)

SVENCHANSKY indicated that the Russians appeared

to be unaware of FRIEDMAN or of his firm and, apparently

as a result of a misunderstanding, assured SVENCHANSKY

that the shipment of books to Communist China was done in

a large scale directly through Mezhaunarodnaja Kniga

(International Book) without the need of a lawyer in the

United States as an intermediary.

NEEDLEMAN COld SVENCHANSKY

that this was undoubtedly true as far as Russian bocks were

concerned, but that when the Chinese want books and parladicals

in the United states, they ordered them from FRIEDMAN'S

company.

-9-

SECRET

cristient

MMw C904 Docld:32989474 Page 22

---

## Page 23

NY 100-78633

NEEDLEMAN claimed that FRIEDMAN's company did a

business of half a million dollars a year with various

publishers.

According

to the informant, NEEDLEMAN had suggeste

tO SVENCHANSKY that he ascertain whether the Russians woul

have any objection to SVENCHANSKy handling this type of

business.

It was evident, however, that SVENCHANSKY had

taken up the matter with people who knew nothing about it. (SX(u)

MATARR ALVIN WEISS] (U)

the Later part of December, 1963, NY I-I

advised. that WALTE? ALVIN WEISS discussed wish NEEDLEMAN

the formation of a Russian-American company to promote

export - import business with the Soviet Union. WEISS

was

of the opinion that such an organization could develop the

skill of dealing with Russia, recruit the cales representa

tives, and

1icenses.

(uarrangements

to obtain the required export

WEISS suggested MARSHALLIMAG PITIS ES

member of

committee

a potential

to set up has projected organization.

WEISS reminded NEEDLEMAN that MAC DUFFLE is acquainted with

Soviet Premier. NIKITA KHRUSHCHEV and has conqueted successful

negotiations for the release of prisoners held in the Soviet:

Union.

WEISS also mentioned DAVID ROCKEFELLER and NOMMAN

•COUSINS as other possible members, as well as ABE FORTAS, the

Washington attomey who is a top adviser to President

THISS described FORSAS as an old friend.

He said

he planed to get in touch with FORIAS to deterine whether

he wanted

• join

• the undertaking as its Washington repre-

sentative..

NEEDLEMAN emphasized that the biggest problem

would be

the creation of a

• favorable climace in Washington

for the issuance of erport Licenses by the department ol

Commerce.

He suggested the appointment

c° an individual

named GARTH (possibly a farmer from Iona) to the founding

committee and also recommended CYRUS EATON as a splendid

person to have on 1t.

704)

=10-

NW 65994 Docld:32989474 Page 23

---

## Page 24

SECRET

NY 100-78633

1'1

NY T-1 learned that H. FRED BAERWALD,

Vice-President

and Secretary of International Minerals and Metals Corporation

and son-in-law of its President, had expressed interest in

NEEDLEMAN'S ACTIVITIES WITH CP

FRONT ORGANIZATIONS AND OTHER

ORGANIZATIONS

American Committee for Protection

Of Foreign Born (ACPEB)

The LACPFB

has been cited pursuant to

Executive Order 10450.

MARTIN YOUNG arranged

Early in January, 1964, NY I-I reported that

to see NEEDLEMAN at home the afternoon

of January 4, 1904.

iLi

the informant subsequently ascertained that yoUNG

Guardian"

, the adverse Cirouit cours, decision (concerning.

the registration of the ACPFB as a Communist front organiza-

Towaras the end of January, 1904, NY I-1 advised

that NEEDLEMAN decided not to attend a meeting of the

ACPFB on January 25, 1954,

despite MARTIN YOUNG's desire

that NEEDLEMAN go and take the floor. y (W

A few days Jater the same informant related that

MARTIN YOUNG informed NEHDLEMAN that about 80 people had

attended the above meeting, which he considered a good turr

out in view of the inclement weather. NEEDLEMAN asked

whether any program had been agreed upon and YOUNG replied

that they had something being worked out but it was not

concrete enough yet (lu)

-11-

SECRET

NW 65994 Docld:32989474 Page 24

---

## Page 25

SECRET

NY 100-78633

At the end of January, 1904, NY I-I reported that

ANNEJTEARUBINSTEIN informed NEEDLEMAN that she had attendec

the ACriB gathering on January 251904, and that she had

about ANTHONY BIMBA whom

she had met for

NEEDLEMAN assured ANNETTE RUBINSTEIN that the

government would be defeated in its efforts

to deport BIMBA. S

(41)

"National Guardian"s)

Towards the middle of December, 1963, NY I-1

advised

that NEEDLEMAN chacked with JAMES ARONSON as to

whether MARK LANE's article would appear in the December 19

issue of the "National Guardian."

appear and thai it would run to five pages.(ä

ve see set would

ARONSON mentioned that the "National Guardian"

was in financial difficulties because of a payroll increase

amounting to $10, 000.00 and

a current deficit of $15,000.00.

Some days later the same infomant reported that

ARONSON advised NEEDLEMAN that he was thinking of distributing

the stock of the "National Guardian"

so that he would keep

ten shares while RUSSyNIXON received ten shares, JANE

IC MANUS five, and ED ZUSI five.

NEEDLEMAN pointed out the

danger of a disagreement in policy, which might result in

- ARONSON's ouster as editor.

IRONSON said he could no

magine such a thing happening in this case. u

ARONSON revealed that he was considering neming

2ust managing editor and mentioned that LAVING FINEMAN

(phonetic) was going to work for the "National Guardian"

as business manager. ARONSON said this individual, formerly

a sheeù metal estimator, was going to take a cut in pay in

order to work at

the

"National Guardian" because he wanted

to do something.

During the latter part of Jaguary, 1904, NY I-

advised that NEEDLEMAN questioned DAVID FREEDMAN

steps being taken by PREMAN and SAM NEUSURGER to obtain u

-12-

ECRET!

NW 65994 Docld:32989474 Page 25

---

## Page 26

NY 100-78633

steps. NEEDLEMAN was of the opinion that legal papers to

obtain an order to show cause should be prepared immediately

as any delay could lead the court to feel that there was no

urgency, NEEDLEMAN explained to NIXON the mechanics of

obtaining an order to show cause and an injunction.

NIXON asked NEEDLEMAN to get in touch with NORMAN

REDLICH and urge him to tell New York University thai their

attitude was out of line from the poin's of civil liberties.(S) U

MES.

NEEDLEMAN subsequently discussed the matter with

BEATRICE

MAGDOFF who told NEEDLEMAN that her husband; HARRY

MAGDOFF, felt that it would not be proper to ask REDLICH

to intervene.

She said REDLICH was on leave of absence

from New York University in order to work with the Warren

Commission in Washington, D.C., and that he was under a

great deal

of pressure.

She suggested that REDLICH might

not even return to New York University upon the completion

of his work in washingion. /u

At the end of January, 1964,

, the same informant

reported that RUSS NIXON told NEEDLEMAN of a conference

he had had with LEONARDYBOUDIN in connection with the

cancellation by New York University of the rental of Town

Hall.

BOUDIN had indicated that his fee to make applica-

to the State Supreme Court would be $1,500.00, plus

an additional thousand dollars if an appeal was taken by

either side to the appellate division.

NEEDLEMAN and. NIXON

fees, giving no consideration to the

NIXON mentioned that

-16-

SECRET

NW 65994 Docld:32989474 Page 26

---

## Page 27

SECRET

NY 100-78633

Citizens Committee for Constitutional Ilbertles (CCOL) Su

During

the latter part of December, 1963, NY I-I advisec

that

TRIEDLANDER InfOrmed NEEDLEMAN that the

coon was considering the pubiication of an advertisement

In "The New York Times" Ir

the form of an open

letter to President JOHNSON asking that 1964 be a

year of reconsideration of the policy on Civil

the danger that the

assassination fever" might

In this connection, a full page advertisement of the

John Birch Society in "The

New York Times" and other

newspapers was to be condemned.

-

NEEDLENEN suggested a large mass meeting

to go along with the alvertise me-no

but MIRIAM

FRIEDLANDER felt that this would be too much

to undertake at this time.(& )U)

She stated that an Advisory Committee

meeting was to take place on December E?, 1963,

and that representatives of several civil liberty .

groups had been invited to atterd. She said that

JOHN ABT had beep asked to give his interpretation

and that STANLEY FAULKNE was working with them. (W.

NEEDLEMAN doubted that his doctor would

permit him to attend the december 27 meeting,

but he volunteered to get contributions ever

though they would be small. (#u

Shortly after the middle of January, 1964,

NY I-2 reported that MIRIAM FRIEDLANDER expressed

concern at the many postponements of a

meeting

which she had wanted to have with NEEDIEMAN and

STANLEY FAULKNER.

the intormant stated that

she, therefore, made ientative plans to see NEEDLEMAN GENU

= 17 ÷

SECRET

NW 65994 Docld:32989474 Page 27

---

## Page 28

SECRET

NY 100-78633

on January 22, 2964. 0 19)

Sometime later NY I-l advised that NEEDLEMAN

InfOrmed FAULKNER that he had had a conference with

MIRIAM FRIEDLANDER and that it had been decided to

hold a fund raising party lo February, either at the

NEEDLEMAN or the JOHNHUBLEY apartment.

FAULKNER

was in favor of holding it on February 14, 1964, and

Location was decided e

abas

NEEDLEMAN subsequently sounded out FAITH

HUBLEY on the

possibility of using her home for the

above purpose.

FAITH HUBLEY told NEEDIEMAN she was fairly

certain it would be all right, but would have to

check with her husband and let NEEDLEMAN Know

later.

NatIonal Lawyers' Gulla (NIG) 3812

LOUISE, PATTERSON advised NEEDLEMAN that the NuG was

reducing sis office personnel in an economy move, as

a result of which she and BETTY BERNSTEIN were being

discharged as of January 10, 1964

IOUISE PATTERSON said she was going

Ioward the end of January, 1064

Ny In reported

chat WILLIAM I. STANDARD urged NEEDLEMAN EC

reconsider his resignation from the NLG

NEEDLEMAN absolutely rerused to do so. Rul

Teachers

At the beginning of January, 1964, NY I-1

advised

18-

SECRET!

NW 65994 Docld:32989474 Page 28

---

## Page 29

SECHET

NY 100-78633

of the Teachers Union in honor oI ROSE RUSSELL

at the

Hotel Waldorf - Astoria on January 4, 1964, ($(U

The informant learned that HARRY and BEATRICE

MAGDOFT were to sit at the NEEDLEMAN table. p

CANES ARONSON CAU

JAMES ARONSON informed NEEDLEMAN that he was going

to Chicago, Illinois, on January 19, 1954, for a

to take

move.

DOROTHY

off the weekend of January 20 in order to

‹u)

BALLANS

At the end of January, 1964, NY I-3 related

that DOROTHY BALLAN visited NEEDLEMAN's office on

to aiscuss her housing problems.

She indicated that her landlord, who had previously

tried to evict her, now wanted her to sign a new lease

Incorporating a

rent increase, or else vacate the

premises.

short time later NY T-]

reported that

DOROTHY BALIAN advised

NEEDLEMAN that her landlord's

motion to reverse a rent control order had been denied

by the court, and that sha had thus won har case. Go (uy

CEDRIC

BELFRACE

that BLANCH

REI, ho was representing connIca, to stand a,

at a court hearing on January 10, 1964,

and nad asked

-19

-

SECRET

NW 65994 Docld:32989474 Page 29

---

## Page 30

SECRET

NY 100-78633

by In case the judge should want him to appear in

person on that day. f. l

NY I-2 subsequently reported that

BLANCH FREEDMAN Informed NEEDLEMAN that the

hearing had taken place

and that everything

Wwas in order.(

A) ANTHONY BIMBA

shortly after the middle of December, 1963,

NY T-] advised that IRA GOLLOBIN Informed NEEDLEMAN

that ANTHONY BIMBA racently had been served with

denaturalization forms.

GOJIOBIN asked NEEDLEMAN

whether he had ever obtained the transcript of a

hearing at which NEEDLEMAN had represented BIMBA.

NEEDLEMAN indicated that he had not done so,

Inasmuch as BIMBA pleaded the Fifch Amendment:

GOLLOB.IN said that BIMBA was being charged with

misrepresentati fun that he had not advised

PHILIP FIELD

Toward the end of December, 1963,

NY T-1 advised that NEEDLEMAN invited PHILIP

IRVING and JACQUELINE]

Early In January, 1964, NY I-I advised

that IRVING and JACQUELINE FINK plannad to

At the end of January, 1904, Ny Il

reported that the NEEDLEMANs made a tontatie

- 20

SECRET

NW 65994 Docld: 32989474 Page 30

---

## Page 31

SECRET

NY 100-78633

ELIZABETH

CHALL

3(01

Early In January, 1964, NY I-2 reported that

visit NEEDLEMAN at home

WN on January 6, 1964.

the end/of December, 1903, NY T-1 related

that JOHN HUBLEY expressed interest in having his

daughter ANN, a senior at san Diego (California,

University, attend a discussion group which FRED MAGDOFF

was holding on Thursdays during the Christmas holdays

According to the informant, DAVID NEEDLEMAN

mentioned to Hubicy that tnis gathering was an

outgrowth of a discussion group previously held

DY HARRY MAGDUFF• DAVID NEEDLEMAN aNGUNZO HUBLEY

that

his

daughter would be welcome

CHARLES HUMBOLDT

Toward the end of January,

1964,

NY I'-]

reported that NEEDLEMAN and IRVING KAPIAN discussed

the death of CHARLES HUMBOLDT, who had been

discharged from POlyclinic Hospital

following treatment for a heart attack

aruary 18, 19540

(4)

NEEDLEMAN said that HUMBOLDI had been

permited by his doctor to go for a walk once a day,

despite the fact that he hed to climb flights

of stairs to return to his apartment.

Toward; the end of January, 1964, NY T-1

advised that ARNOLD JOHNSON

wanted to get in touch

with NEEDLEMAN the evening of January

but

= 21 -

SECRET

NW 65994 Docld:32989474 Page 31

---

## Page 32

SECRET

NY 100-78633

) IRVING

(KAPLAN

Shortly after the middle of December, 1963,

NY T-3 related that NEEDLEMAN and IRVING KAPLAN

discussed the United States Court of Appeals

reversal of the conviction of the Communist Party

for failure to register,

Although both NEEDLEMAN

and KAPLAN were pleased by this development;

the

latter was of the opinion that the harassment of

the Communist Party would continue ae the

American Legion and the John Birch society,

were In a position to pressure Congress. 6)u

Shortly

after the midale of December, 1963=

NY I-I reported that SIDNEY KAUFMAN informed NEEDLEMAN

that he had held a conference with SAM. MAGDOFF On

December 10, 1903, but that MAGDOFF did not seem

to understand what KAUFMAN was driving at and

KAURMAN waS

appeared not to be paying any attention. RAUFMAN

had wanted to compare notes about their respective

together.

here oftyles to see where they could wort

KAUFMAN advised NEEDLEMAN that he was returning

to Europe in January.

He insisted that he had meant

business with the soviets, but that he had still not

distribute

soviet Ilms in the united states.

NEEDLEMAN suggested that KAUFMAN write

him a letter setting forth the fact that he was planning

to go to Europe in January, at which time KAUFMAN

might require NEEDLEMAN to go with him because of

a pending case, and that he wanted to be sure NEEDLEMAI

had a valid passport. * (U/

KAUFMAN promised NEEDLEMAN to prepare

such a letter. lUs

- 22 cr

'SECRUI

NW 65994 Docld:32989474 Page 32

---

## Page 33

SECRET

NY 100-78633

At the end of December, 1963, NY I-1

advised that KAUFMAN informed NEEDLEMAN that a woman

of his acquaintance had just come from Germany,

and was interested in bringing over the East

but felt it would be impossible

but Fine ite

NEEDLEMAN offered to make inquiries in

Washington, D.C., but felt that the fact the

United states does not recognie Fast dermany

would be insurmountable.

A few days later NY I-2 advised that NEEDLEMAN

reported to SIDNEY KAUFMAN that he had been Li

touch with Washington, and that the problems

to the tate state Were much too on teen e

to the United States were much too complicated.

On this occasion KAUFMAN informed NEEDLEMAN

that he planned to travel to Brussels, Belgium,

man see 4-5, 1964, In connection.

with a business deal. (

During the latter part of January, 1964,

NY T-1 advised that upon his return from Europe, SIDNEY

KAUFMAN informed NEEDLEMAN that he was making progress

with the Yugoslavians (presumably in connection

with a film contract) and that he expected to

retur to burope sometime in Febauary 11

KAUFMAN indicated that he had still

KAUFMAN also reported that he had gone to

Belgium to inspect new curved motion picture screen •

KAUFMAN sald he wanted to discuss this type of screen

with PHILIP FIELD

= 23 -

SECRET

NW 65994 Docld:32989474 Page 33

---

## Page 34

SECRET

NY 100-78633

According to the informant, NEEDLEMAN subsequently •

advised FIELD that KAUFMAN had seen a 100 degree screen

in Europe, and wanted to hold an uninterrupted discussion

with FIELD concerning it.

FIELD agreed to meet KAUFMAN

In NEEDIENAN's apartment on January 25, 1964- /U/

MARY JANEAKBENEY

tarly In January.

1964, NY I-l reported that

BEATRICE MACDOFF informed EDITH NEEDLEMAN that she

was having a select group of people at her apartment

on January 23, 1964, to get together with MARY JANE KEENEY.

MRin

The informant learned that among the people whom

MARY JAN KEENEY particularly wanted to see were PHILIPY/

and OLGA, LEND, IRVING and DOROTHY KAPLAN, and the

NEEDLEMANST

Toward the end of January, 1964, NY I-1

reported that NEEDLEMAN informed JAMES ARONSON that he had

recently seen MARY JANE KEENEY, who related that she

had wanted to go to China, but

that she had been told by

"EPPy" that she would have to be committed to it 100%,

now and lorever. However, MARY JANE KEENEY PaIG."

that she could go along possibly 95%, but would not

accept the chinese attitude on the nuclear test ban.

She decided against going to China because she felt

she might have to forego freedom of thinking

altogether.

The informant did not know who "EPPY" was,

was possibly an individual

named, EPSTEIN. SUa

NX

At the end of December, 1903, NY I-I reported

that BEATRICE MAGDOFF related to

NEEDLEMAN that a gathering

of young people at the MAGDOFF apartment the

everant of Deser 2o, 1945, had seen vers nell u

- 24 -

SECRET

NW 65994 Docld:32989474 Page 34

---

## Page 35

SECRETI

NY 100-78633

attended. Soe said those who participated told what

had been going on at their respective campubes,,

and one individual who had been in Cuba described

his experiences.

She said that another young person,

who had been in Georgia, talked about the situatio

in that state.

At the end of December, 1963s NY I-1 reported

that BRATRICE MAGDOFY and EDITH NEEDLEMAN discussed pLans

for a New Year's Eve dinner at the NEEDLEMAN apartment on

December 31, 1963. Besides HARRY and BEATRICE" MAGDOFF, .

the guests

were to be

IRVING and DOROTHY KAPLAN and

PHILIP and

OLGA FIELD.

During the latter part of January, 1964,

NY I-L ascertained that HARRY MAGDOFF was working on the

preparation of a course on the "Soviet Economy" which

Social Research in February, 1964.

At about the same time NY I-I advised that

HARRY MAGDOFF discussed with NEEDLEM'N the fee which

che latter should charge SAM MAGDCEE, NENDLEMAN indicated

that he had $750 in mind, but HARRY MAGDOFF argued

that NEEDLEMAN would be foolish not to make it $2,500.

NEEDLEMAN Stated that he just coula not

MAGDOFF a regular professional fee.

negular professiona fee. Cure SAM

During the latter part of December, 1963, NY I-1

learned that SAM MAGDoFF was planning to get married on

December 23, 1963,

and that the ceremony would probabl

take place in the Municipal Building,

New York CIty.GW

A few days later the same informant reported

- 25

'SECRET

Nw C2.04 Mocld:32989474 Page 35

---

## Page 36

SECRET

NY 100-78633

find a savings bank, which would accept a deposit of

name of a corporation. According

to the informant, this money may have been insurance

payable morale upon the death of his

partner,

The informant stated that on this occasion

MAGDOFF discussed with NEEDLEMAN the steps to

oe taken for the legal acoption of the 18 year ol

daughter of his new wife. COUl

Early in January, 1964, NY I-I advised

that SAM MAGDOFF agreed to

pay $10,000 in back

salary, which was owing to his late partner,

ABE LISS. MAGDOFF felt this could be done within

a one or two month period.

He was dub lous, however,

about undertaking a moral obligation of paying LISS's

widow

an additional sum over they

dest year or two,

providing that business was good.

Ike informant learned that MAGDOFF

taken a man named SAVAGE into the business.

*OW/

At the end of January, 1904, NY I-3

reported that SAM MAGDOFF had a luncheon appointment

with NEEDLEMAN on January 27, 1964.

The informant

obtained the impression that

during the luncheon

it was agreed that NEEDLEMAN would receive a fee

of $1,000 for handling the affairs of MAGDOFF's

firm. There were indications, tog that NEEDLEMAN was

to be retained by the company at an annual fee of

$1, 200.

ALiTAN

MARKORE

At the end of December, 1963, NY T-1

- 26

-

SECRET

Maw C04 Docld 32989474 Page 36

---

## Page 37

SECRET!

NY 100-78633

he had an interesting business deal developing. He

and to out a leopo who would bo

ELIZABET

ANY'

Towerd the end of January, 1964, NY T-3

related that, ELIZABETH MASCOLO visited NEEDLEMAN'S

office on January 24, 1904 and told him

nat the father of BONNIEyMASCOLO (wife of her!

SOn, RICHARD MASCOLO.) had left his children some

property outside of Atlanta, Georgia.

One

piece of property, she said,

jointly

DY BONNIE MASCOLO

and her sister.

ELIZABETH MASCOLO disclosed that upon

in case a sale should take place. ELIZABETH MASCOLO

said the deed had been sent to her, but that it should

be signed by BONNIE MASCOLO before

a notary, In

this case it would mean that BONNIE KASUOIC would

have to go before

United States Consul.

However,

her family was under the impression that BONNIE

MASCOLO had merely gone to Canada. NEEDLEMAN suggested

that a Power of Attorney would germit ELIZABETH MASCOLO

to sign for her daughter-in-law and hold off the actual

transfer until it was needed.

He offered to fix up a

Power of Attorney for BONNIE MASCOLO, If ELIZABETH

MASCOLO was unable to locae one among ner rogers.

He cautioned ELIZABETH MASCOLO

not to discuss this,

particularly over the telephone, as

could get him

ELAZABETH MASCOLO tOld NEEDLEMAN she

- 27 -

SECRET

MN 121004 Focld:32989474 Page 37

---

## Page 38

SECRET

NY 100-78633

and NEEDLEMAN offered to find out whether

could send them with the duty prepaid. li

ELIZABETH MASCOLO mentioned that she

Toward the end of January, 1964s NY I-2

réported that STEVE NELSON informed NEEDLEMAN

that he expected to receive a summons over a contract

for a water cooler. NEEDLEMAN assured NELSON that

he would handle the matter. NELSON revealed

at this time

that he had recently undergone a urological

operation. (K)ul

RUSS NIXON (= (UL)

At the end of January, 1964, NY T-1

advised that RUSS NIXON mentioned to NEEDLEMAN that

se had met with the Albanian Ambassador on January 29, 1964,

and thạt

this individual appeared to be a fairly bright

person;

(ve)

ISADORE JORTENBERG

At

the end of December, 1963, NY T-2

learned from NEEDLEMAN that ISADORE ORTENBERG, who

had undergone a serious operation at the New York

niversity hospita.

ind was home again. ed been discharged on December 30, 1963,

At the end of January, 1964, NY T-3

reported that ISADORE ORIENBERG visited NEEDLEMAN'S

office

during the latter part of January, 1964 ORTENBERG

described his recent illness, as

aneurism,from which

he had recovered.

He mentioned that he was still working

at 55 John Street

, New York City, but that he would like

to go to Florida for a period of

convalescanse. qu

28

-

'SECRET

Nk/ 65994 Docld:32989474 Page 38

---

## Page 39

SECRET

NY 100-78633

He was uncertain of where to go and NEEDLEMAN suggested.

that he go to Fort Pierce, and introduce himself to

WILLIAM I. STANDARD, who was at the ocean View

Apartments, 511 South Ocean Drive. & X0l/

[HELLEY and SAN PERIMAN]G(W)

Toward the end of January,

1964, NY I-1

teaching position (possibly in the public school

system. She, therefore, felt she would be foolish

to erve up her present job with Amtorg.

SHELLEY

PERLMAN mentioned she had signed a contract to

WOrk fOr ROBERTASI ECK

the summer of 1964.

vat his summer camp during 1'1

ARU/

The Informant learned that SAt PERIMAN

was undergoing psychoanalysis,

os it as he did not dopesate with he else en

EDWARD PERRY

(wl

Shortly after the middle of December, 1963,

NY T-I reported that NEEDLEMAN tOld EDWARD PERPY about

plans of the cect to place an advertisement in

"The New York Times" to counteract a full page

advertisement of the John Birch sosiety. PERRY

said he would be happy to send NEEDLEMAN a contribution

A short tine later the same informant

related that PERRY told NEEDLEMAN that the

Internal Revenue Service has audited his income

da returns every year since 1952,

he had been assessed an additional $11,000 as a

result of the audits of his 1960, 1961, and 1962 returns.

- 29 =

SECRET

MMMA Don/h2289474 Page 39

---

## Page 40

SECRET

NY 100-78633

He said the extra tax resulted from disallowance of,

portions of entertainment expenses he had claimed.

At the end of January, 1964, NY I-1

advised that PERRY remirod NEEDLEMAN of an

envirguion to a party at Pat's ame on Tobyamy 1, 1964. Eff

in working at Amtorg.

was a possibility of

maxe inquiries:

NEEDLEMAN told her there

jop there, and promised to

A few days later Ny I-I reported that

HAROLD POSNER informed NEEDLEMAN that his daughter

had been offered a job, which she would like to

accept

something had developed

at Amtorg.

NEEDLEMAN tOld POSNER that there was

nothing new because both the President and the

Secretary of Amtorg had gone to Moscow to discuss

the Amtorgt ax case. NEEDLEMAN recommended that

daughter accept the other job. (A)(U)

VICTOR

RABINOW IT'Z

During the latter part of December, 1963,

NY T-2 reported that NEEDLEMAN learned that JONI

/ RABINOWITZ, daughter of VICIOR RABINOWITZ, had

been round guilty of perjury in George, and had

NIreceived a intl sentence of 4 years. Althougn

It was presumed

and that

there would be an appeal probably resulting

In a reversal; NEEDLEMAN was Incensed at the sentence.

NIM 0e9614

Raclde32989474 Page 40

-30 -

'SECRE

---

## Page 41

SECRET

NY 100-78633

He declared

the south.

that lascism was certainly not dead in

mes

During the latser part of December, 1903,

NY I-1 advised that NEEDLEMAN informed PAUL ROSS

that NORMAN REDLICH, the New York University expert

on constitutional Law, was working with the Commission

headed ba chief Justle WARMeN to leftisate the

assassination of JOHN F. KENNEDY.

Pasen alon

ARTHUR and CHARLENE ROSEN

Toward the end of December, 1963, NY I-3 related

that ARTHURKROSEN discussed with NEEDLEMAN the proposed

sale of his house.

In the course of the conversation

ROSEN mentioned that his wife, CHARLENE, from whom

he is separated,

had developed a hatred for

white people. and

a fanatical devotion to Negro nationalism.

ROSEN indicated that the only reason

CHARLENE ROSEN had not joined the Black Muslims

was because she did not approve of their treatment of women.

ROSEN. who mentioned that he was CHARLENE

approve of their treadment of momen. pl

ROSEN's third husband, told NEEDLEMAN that his wife's

parents reside in Bun

own a $40,000 home

Balp, New Jork, where they

Early in January, 1964, the above informant

reported that ROSEN Informed NEEDLEMAN that he was

in a bad financial situation following his separation

from his wife.

According to ROSEN, this situation

arose from his wife's refusal to help him with a

loss

sustained on the sale of their home. (al

• 31 -

SEChel

MM G:004 T0oald:12989474 Page 41

---

## Page 42

SECRET

NY 100-78633

The informant related that NEEDLEMAN agreed

to waive his customary fee pAl!

A few days later, however, NY I-2 reported

that NEEDLEMAN reminded CHARLENE ROSEN that she

had certain financial obligations to share with her

husband,

of 415o auding the payment of MaNs see

At the end of December, 1963, NY I-1

reported that PAUL ROSS and his

wife planned to

visit the NEEDLEMANs in the afternoon of December 9, 1963.

Toward the end of January, 1964, the

same informant reported that PAUL and NAN BOSS

invited the NEEDLEVANs for supper on February 16,

1954. PAUL ROSS advised NEEDLEMAN that one of

the guests on that occasion would

whom he wanted NEEDLEMAN to meet.

The informant learned that PAUL and NAN

ROSS were planning to take a month's trip to

California and Hawail, beginning February 29, 1964.

This trip, which they

hoped would also

include Mexico

was by way of

celebrating their fortieth wedding

anniversary.

At the end of January, 1964, NY I-3 reported

that KURT SCHNEIDER Informed NEEDLEMAN that

that the holder of a chastel mortgage on her car

was threatening to repossess it unless payments on it were

-

-32-

MAN C:004 Doolkdt:0/994474 Page 42

SECRET

---

## Page 43

SECRET

NY 100-78633

brought up to dath. SCHNEIDER sought advice as

to the possibility of holding his s0a-in-lav table f

SCHNEIDER mentioned on this occasion that

BLANCH FREEDMAN was handling an immigration

He indicated dissatisfaction

Shortly alcer the midale of January, 1964, NY T-3

related that GLADYS SCHULKIND was referzed to NEEDLEMAN

DY ANNELLE RUBINSEIN, and visited his office on January 20,

1964. She stated that approximately la years ago, she

returned to New York Cicy from Chicago, Illinois,

Where

her husband had bean teaching at the University of

Chicago. she told NEEDIEMAN she wanted to apply for a

teaching certificate, but needed advice on how to

answer a question dealing with Communist affiliation

GLADYS SCHULKIND revealed that she had

belonged to the labor Youth league, before her

marriage, and she had joined a neighberhood slub

afterwards, while her husband was in a Communist

Party (CP) industrial group•

She disclosed that in Chicago she and her.

husband had belonged to a study and discussion group

composed of about fiye people from universities

and

she said regular dues were paid.

She

stated that she had not been involved, however, for

following her divorce.: the

NEEDIEMAN told her that if she belonged to

a stuay group in the 1y20!s there was undoubtedy

a stoolpigeon in the group. NEEDLEMAN stated that as

an attorney, he could not advise a client to commit

33.

SECRET

NW. 65994_Docld:32989474_ Page 43

---

## Page 44

RECHET:

NY 100-78633

perjury, but sould only point out the consegance ol

He said he doubted that she would run

much risk if she answered "no"to the question

NEEDLEMAN cautioned GLADYS SCHULKIND tO

answer truthfully to any questions concerning traffic

violations.

GLADYS SCHULKIND indicated that her

financial situation was precarious NEEDLEMAN

told her that his lee was normally $25. but under

the circumstances she could pay whatever she

wanted or forget it entirely.

However, according

to the niormant, she gave NEEDLEMAN a check for

$15.

The Labor Youth League

mentioned above

(W has been cited pursuant to Exeäutive Order 104504

MAX'S

EBORER

the end of December, 1963, M7 InI advised

that NEEDLEMAN Invited MAX SEBORER for dinner on

tes he could

New Year's Eve, but that wAX SeBOReR doubted

to NEEDLEMAN's apartment in time

for dinger.

Toward the middle of January, 1964, NY I-2

[BELTAXSOLASKO] T

During the latter part of January, 1964, NY I-2

advised

that NEEDLEMAN informed TOMASWAN,

Express"

, that he had received a check for $1891.10 from

INA GETMANSKY, 5013 MescaLerO ROaG Aybuquerque

ew mexico, In payment for a refrigerator anda

"Moskvich

car, which were to be delivered to lal

=

34-0

NW 65994 Docld:32989474 Page 44

---

## Page 45

SECRET

NY 100-78633

BELLA SOLASKO and her daughber FAINNA GLAGOLEVA.

NEEDLEMAN Said ZINA GETMANSKY WaS BELLA SOLASKO'S

sister and that she wanted the purchases to be

made in the names of both her siter and her niece.

NEEDLEMAN doubted that this could be gone ana ne

asked SWAN to communicate With FAINNA GLAGOLEVA IOT

instructions. NEEDLEMAN gave her address as 9

Third Frunzenskaya Street, Moscow, G. 270A513

Early in January, 1904, NY I-2 advised that

EDWARD WALLERSTEIN discussed with NEEDLEMAN the

possibility of patenting a "split-run" television system,

which was an idea rather than a device.

WALLERSTEIN

stated that his firm (Center for Research in Marketing)

was anxious to make application at once in order to

advertise it as a patent pending matter. There

was some doubt that the Patent office

would accept,

it since it was no more than an idea. NEEDLEMAN

cherefore, recommended that a search be dispered

with, and

that application be made.

NEEDLEMAN felt

that he could handle the matter and WALLERsta promisea

to send him all the pertinent intormatione

Sometime later NY T-2 reported that NEEDLEMAN

advised WALLERSTEIN that there was an oath involved in

connection with applying for a patent. NEEDLEMAN wanted

to discuss this fully with WALLERSTEIN, and mage an

appointment to see him on January 21, 1964-X 14/

MARTIN YOUNG

1964, NY I-I reported

that EUGENE! and BARBARA YOUNG,

the end of January son and daughter-In-law

Of MARTIN YOUNG, had recently returned Irom nazana,

- 35 -

EW ToM Nlocllol:32989474 Page 45

'SECRET

---

## Page 46

SECRET

NY 100-78633

expected to work on his thesis. BARBARA YOUNG informed

NEEDLEMAN that they wore staying with MARTIN YOUNG for

she moment

NEEDLEMAN- Learned that BARBARA YOUNG expected

At the end of January, 1904, NY I-I related

that MARTIN YOUNG aSKed NEEDLEMAN whether he knew

CELIA ZITRON well.

NEEDLEMAN replied that he had

known hes from the 1930'5, when she was very

active in the Teachers

Union, and that she had

continued to be active to the end. NEEDLEMAN added

that she and her husband were ousted from their

teacher chon on to a on emony tven

The informant subsequently learned that MARTIN

YOUNG wanted to arrange a meeting through CELIA ZITRON

eith a woman named ROSE.

YOUNG and NEEDLEMAN ascertained,

however, that ROSE was confined at a hospital with

a bad back,

As they did not want to discuss what

they had in mind under those conditions, YOUNG

and NEEDLEMAN decided to talk with CELIA ZITRON

first, and made an appointmell

night of January 22, 1964a Slup see her at home the

NEEDLEMAN'S BANK ACCOUNTS 1(5)Y

NEEDLEMAN's regular account at the Amalgamated Bank

NE January 3, 1964, NY I-5 advised that, (4)

of New York, 11-15 Union Square, New York City.

showed during the month of December, 1963, (4) (4)

- 36 -

SECRET

MW COM NDoxild:32989474 Page 46

---

## Page 47

SECRET:

NY 100-78633

the following activity considered pertinent is (4)

Date

Fayee

December 29, 1963

Citizens Committee

Amount

$50.00

for constitutional

Liberties

December 30, 1963

Citizens Committee

25.00

for Constitutional

Liberties

Deposits to this account were as follows:

Date:

Amount

December 2, 1963

$300.00

December 4, 1963

670.51

December 6, 1903

300.00

December 12, 1963

171.55

1963, was pa, palate of this account as of December 31,

A review of NEEDLEMAN's Special Account

at the above bank reflected no pertinent activity

during December, 1963.

were as follows:

Deposits to this account

Date

Amount

December 2, 1963

I way an one

$750.00

December 10, 1963

88.00

December 19, 1963

400.00

The balance of this account as of December 31, 1953,

was $1,236.57

The above Informatiomay not be made

public except in

a usual proceeding following the

(л)

-

- 37-

SECRET!

NW 65994 Docld:32989474 Page 47

---

## Page 48

SECRET

NY 100-78633

[Issuance of a subpoena. On U

(U) NY 1-5 no longer has custody of the basic E(u

documents from

which the above information was extractedg

and would not be in a position to testify thereto.

38 -

SECRET

NW 65994 Docld:32989474 Page 48

---

## Page 49

SECRET

NY 100-78633

APPENDIX

CHARACTERIZATIONS

Individuals

JOHN ABT

(a)

in the CP Trom 1934 to 1937,

Individual known to her as a CP member. ‹

ABI was in her CP unit.

-stated that ten

The "Daily Worker" of April 6, 1954,

revealed that

JOHN ABT was a "noted civil liberties attorney" who

had been

"In the forefront of the progressive fight for

20 years." The "Dally Worker" stated that ABT was co-counsel

representing the CP in the Me Carran Act case. u

The "Dally Worker" was an East Coast

Communist newspaper which suspended

publication on january 13, 1958. u

JAVES ARONSON

on May 14, 1953, JAMES ARONSON testified before

the United StatesUS Senate Permanent Subcommittee on

Investigations, Committee on Government Operations, at

Washington, D.C. He was asked it he was or ever had been

a member of the

He refused to answer and claimed

immunity under the Fifth Amendment. He was also asked

if he was writing

refused to answer

these questions on the grounds of

self incrimination, y

DOROTHY BALLAN

ise)

(n)

January 1, 1960, NY I-T

advised that DOROTHYLa]

BALLAN waS a member of the National/committee of the

WORKERS WORLD PARTY.

-39-

SECRET

NW 65994 Docld:32989474 Page 49

---

## Page 50

SECRET

NY 100-78633

APPENDIX

On May 1, 1962, NY I-Ereported that DOROTHYD

BALLAN was a member of the WORKERS WORLD PARTY as of that

date.

CEDRIC and JOSEPHINE BELFRAGE

"The New York Times" of August 16, 1955, stated

that CEDRIC BELFRAGE, British-born founder and co-editor

of the "National Guardian," was deported from the United

States on August 15, 1955; on the grounds of CP membership. u

Current issues of the "National Guardian" list

CEDRIC BELFRAGE as "Editor-in-Exile" of this publication.u

JOSEPHINE BELFRAGE is the wife of CEDRIC

BELFRAGE, from whom she is separated. y

BETTY BERNSTEIN

On October 2, 1962, NY I-9, furnished an announcement

of the New York Chapter of the NATIONAL LAWYERS GUILD

reflecting that BETTY BENSTEIN was the new Aâministrative

Secretary of this chapter.(*)

ANTHONY BIMBA

BIMBA was regarded as

Ton July 26, 1953, NY T-LOt avised that ANYONE (Le)

one of the leading Lithuanian

Communists in the uS.

LEONARD BOUDIN

associated with CP front organizations during the early

1940's.

-10-

SECRET

NW 65994 Docld:32989474 Page 50

---

## Page 51

SECRET!

NY 100-78633

APPENDIX

NORMAN COUSINS

NORMAN COUSINS 1s the Editor of the "saturday

Review" and a leader of the movement against nuclear

testing. ti

JOSEPH CROWN

CROWN was a C2 member as of April, 1955. A

MANUEL, DIAZ

on August 14, 1961, NY I-Zhadvised that MANUELL U)

DIAZ 1s the brother of JOSEPHINE DIAZ BELERAGE, who nas

been characterized above.

According to the records of the legal Division,

Passport Oltice, Deparcment of state, Washington, D.C.,

furnished to SA

• WILLIAM G. SHAW by Miss MARY BARRY On

March 15, 1957, JOSEPHINE

DIAZ BELFRAGE had advised the

Passport Office on August 4, 1955, that she married

CEDRIC BELFRAGE of England on June 11, 1954.%

CYRUS EATON

Chesapeake and Ohio Railroad, Is a well known industrialist

and frequent apologist for the soviet Union. u

SIANLEY FAULKNER

STANLEY FAULKVER waS Ch

In 1957 and 1958.

FAULKNER was a member of the New York City Chapter of the

NLG and his name appeared on the list of "National EX-Officio

Directors."

-41-

SECRET

NW 65994 Docld:32989474 Page 51

---

## Page 52

SECRETI

NY 100-78633

APPENDIX

JOSEPH FEINSTEIN

on November 7, 1955, NY I-ladvised that I

JOSEPH FEINSTER is an American who 1s emoloved by the

ATC as head of the Transportation Department.

According

to the informant, FEINSTEIN has served in this capacity

for a number of years.

Dr. MILTON FEITENSTEIN

JOSEPH KLIEN, a former CP member and CP

functionary from 1932 to 1938, advised in June, 1940, that

a communication had been sent to EARL BROWDER,

then a leading

CP functionary, from Mexico. This communication contained

a report on "the situation in Mexico" and was forwarded

to Dr. MILTON FELTENSIEIN who, in turn, was to furnish it

tO BROWDER. L

OLGA and PHILIP FIELD

[on october 18, 1954, NY I-15Jadvised that

OLGA FIELD was sent by the CP National Office to work in

Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, in the 1930's.

She was placed

with the Works Progress Administration National Research

Project where she met PHILIP FIELD, who was a CP member

at that time

on January 24, and 25, 1949, Special Agents of

the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) observed that

PHILIP FIELD anD hiS WiIE, OLGA FIELD, were In contact with

SAM CARR..

SAM CARR was identified by ICOR GOUZENKO, former

Code Clerk, Soviet Embassy, Ottawa, Canada, as a member

of a Russian espionage ring which operated in Canada

prior to 1946. 4

IRVING FINEMAN

The files of the New York Office contain no

Information which can be identified with this individual.

-42-

¿CRET!

NW 65994 Docld:32989474 Page 52

---

## Page 53

SECRET

NY 100-78633

APPENDIX

IRVING and

JACQUELINE FINK

The marriage records of queens County, 88-11

Sutphin Boulevard, Jamaica, New York, reflect that

JACQUELINE BLUMAN and IRVING FINK were married on February

1958. 44

On February 21, 1950, NY T-16 learned that

JACQUELINE BLUMAN waS at

that time considering filing an

application to be admitied to the bar of the state of New

York.

She confided in the informant that she was concerned

about a question on the application dealing with CP membership.?'4

She admitted former CP membership but did not specify the

dates of such membership. She likewise admitted signing

the last State-wide nominating petition circulated by the

CP during the

rew years

BLANCH FREEDMAN

column s reilects that BLANCH FREEDMAN was an atorney for

had known BLANCH FREEDMAN as a member of the CP from

approximately 1940 to 1946, and that she had attended CP

meetings with her.

DAVID, FREEDMAN

The "New York World Telegram and Sun" of September 18,

1953, reflected that JOHN LAUTNER, former Chairman of ühe

DAVID M. FREEDMAN as a CP member. 4

-43-

SECRET

NW 65994 Docld:32989474 Page 53

---

## Page 54

NY 100-78633

APPENDIX

MIRIAM FRIEDIANDER

According to "The New York Times" of June 8, 1962,

CITIZENS COMMITIEE FOR CONSTITUTIONAL LIBERTIES sponsored

The New York Times"

identified MIRIAM FRIEDLANDER as Executive Secretary of

that organization.u

MILTON FRIEDMAN

(u)

Evy 1-18 advised that MILTON FRIEDMAN attended aLl

meeting

of the Executives

of the Queens County CP in

1948, and that he also attended a meeting

sunnyside section of the CP in September, 1948.

The same Informant advised on August 15, 1952,

that FRIEDMAN 1s an attorney. whom CP members have been

instructed to contact in the event any of them should be

arrested.

FAINNA GLAGOLEVA

FAINNA GLAGOLEVA is the daughter of BEILA SOLASKO

who will be characterized later in this report. u

EDA GLASER

On February 19, 1953, EDA GLASER testified

before a subcommittee of the senate judiciary Committee at

New York City. She stated that she

Incriminate herself, she refused to state whether she had

been a member of the waterfront section of the CP or

signed CP nominating petitions through the years. Y

on March 27, 1953, ANTHONY GLASER, former

husband of EDA GLASER, and an admitted member of the

CP, 4

-44-

SECRET

NW 65994 Docld:32989474 Page 54

---

## Page 55

SECRET

NY 100-78633

APPENDIX

advised that EDA GLASER was the Educational Director of the

washington Heights Branch of the CP in New York City and that

she had been a CP member for at least five years prior to

cheir marriage in June, 1943. He stated that EDA GLASEF

1905 teast,

actively recruited members and obtained contributions for

the CP. U

IRA GOLLOBIN

On April 21, 1951, JOHN LAUTNER, previously

Identified in this report, advised that he had heard IRA

GOLLOBIN described in the

CP as a CP member and that,

although he had never met him, he understood GOLLOBIN to be

a CP member. u

ELIZABETH HALL

ELIZABETH HALL IS the Wife Of GUS HAII.U

According to NY T-125,

•GUS HALL IS the Generall

Secretary of the CP, USA.

JOHN and FAITH HUBLEY

on June 5, 1952, BERNYCE FLEURY, 4524 Coldwater

Canyon, North Hollywood, California, advised that she was

a member of the CP in Hollywood from approximately 1942 to

1945, and was assigned to an artists branch. She identified

was a member.

subsequently been advised by HUBLEY that he was definitely

out of the CP. 4

On Hoverber 1, 1957, DAVID HEILVEIL, a motion

advised SAS MARCUS M. BRIGHT, Jr. and JOHN T.

he joined the los Angeles County CP shortly after April, 1943, 4l

-45-

NW 65994 Docld:32989474 Page 55

---

## Page 56

'SECRF

NY 100-78633

APPENDIX

and remained an active CP member until March 6, 1944.

identified FAITH ELLIOTT as a member of the CP

sometime

during the period of his own membership.u

Records of the City Clerk, New York City, reviewed

Oy SE GERARD M. LENAHAN on October 24, 1955, reflect that

FAITH ELLIOTT married JOHN HUBLEY on June 24, 1955. 7

CHARLES HUMBOTDE

Recent Issues of the "National Guardian" reflected

that CHARLES HUMBOLDT was a member of the staff of this

publication. u

IGOR A. IVANOV

IGOR A. IVANOV is a Soviet national employed as

a chauffeur by the Amtorg Trading Corporation. He was

indicted on November 7, 1963, by a Federal Grand tury,

Us District court, Newark, New Jersey, on charges of

conspiracy to commatt espionage. a

ARNOLD JOHNSON

On january 21, 1953, ARNOLD JOHNSON was convicted

in the Us District Court, Southern District of New York, for

conspiracy to violate the smith Act of 1940. On February 3,

1953g he was sentenced to 3 years imprisonment and to a fine

о1 $0, 000.00. и

"Ihe Worker" of January 31, 1960, identified

ARNOLD JOHNSON as Vice-Chairman

the New york siate CP. u

IRVING and DOROTSTE KAPTAN

ELUZABENT I. BENILEY, a confessed former Soviet

espionage agent, rostilled in July, 1940, before the

Committee on Un-Anerican Activities, US House of Representatives,

that IRVING KAPIAN, who was employed by the war production u

-46-

SECRET

NW 65994 Docld:32989474 Page 56

---

## Page 57

320. +r

NY 100-78633

APPENDIX

Board in the early 1940's, paid dues to the group known as the

pezlo croup and submitted information to the Silvermaster

Group. Both of these were soviet espionage groups that

operated in Washington, D.C., in the early 1940's. u

DOROTHY KAPLAN is the wife of IRVING KAPIAN. Y

SIDNEY KAUFMAN

on January 7, 1955, NY T-Zadvised that SIDNEYDE U

KAUFMAN 13 the Vice-President and secretary of Grand Prize

Films, Incorporated, 656 Fifth Avenue, New York City, a

firm engaged in importing foreign films.

MARY JANE KEENEY

"The Shamerul years: Thirty years of soviet

Espionage In the United States," prepared and released by

the Committee on Un-American Activities, United States

Rouse of Representatives, Washington, D.C,, December 30,

1951, states that MARY JANE KEENEY and PHILIP OLIN KEENEY

(her

late husband) had a record of association with Inown

Communists and with individuals identified as having been

engaged in sovlet espionage activity. U

CORLISS LAMONT

On september 28, 1953, LOUIS F. BUDENZ testified

before the US senate permanent Investigations Subcommittee

that EARL BROWER as head of the communist Party in the

US had reierred so COMLISS LAMONT as

"Four

prides" of the OP, because of LAMONT'S readiness to

cooperate with any Communist calls or any communist front.

BROWDER made this remark at a meeting of tre Nacional

Committee of the CP in the early 1950's. BUDENZ recalled

LAMONT as a OP member at the time that he (BUDENZ)

member.

was a 4

(21)

- 47-

SECRET

NW 65994 Docld:32989474 Page 57

---

## Page 58

SECRET!

NY 100-78633

APPENDIX

MARK LANE

Ion June 20, 1956, NY I-19 furnished informations

reflecting-that MARK LANE was a member of the New York

City Chapter of the NATIONAL LAWYERS' GUILD..

ABE LISS

ELMER HAMELL, Custodian of Records, State House,

Trenton, New Jersey, advised on February 20, 1950, that the

signature ot ABE LISS, 350-1Ith Avenue, Paterson, New Jersey,

appeared on a CP nominating petition dated August 20, 1938,

in favor of WILLIAM NORMAN for United States Senator.U.

(u)

JANE MC MANUS

Current issues of the "National Guardian" 11st

JANE MC MANUS aS

being in charge of "promotion and

Guardian Events."

she is the widow of JOHN I. MC MANuS.U

Issues of the"National Guardian" through November 7,

1951, listed YOHN. I. MC MANUS as

the General Manager of

publication.

According to "The New York Times"

of Nomeber 23, 1951, JOHN I. MC MANUS died on November 22,

1961. И

MARSHALI, MAC DUFFTE

"The New York Times" of November 15, 1353, contained

an item star.ng that MaRSHALL MAC bUFFlE, a New York lawyer,

arrived in Moscow a monch before and had visitea the

Ukraine, where he was entertained by government officials.

The article noted that MAC DUFFIE had been chief of the

United Nations Relief and Rehabilitation UNRRA mission in

Russia in 1946. It was stated that while in Moscow

-48-

¡SECRET

NW 65994 Docld:32989474 Page 58

---

## Page 59

SECRET

NY 100-78633

APPENDIX

MAC DUFFIE had talked for nearly four hours with NIKITA

KHRUSHCHEV, then Secretary of the Central Committee of the

CP, but had refused to disclose what he discussed with

KHRUSHCHEV and

said his visit was a private one.

"The

New York Times" Iurther stated that MAC DUFFIE intended to

visit central Asia. 4

on January 14, 1954, MARSHALL MAC DUFFIE told

SAS RICHARD E. BRENNAN and FRANCIS W. ZANGLE that his trip to i

the Soviet Union had been financed by "Collier's" magazine

but that he had not told this to the Russians. He stated

that he had spent.65 days in Russia and "got loose." As a

result, he said, he had seen more of Russia than anyone in

the past 20 years. MAC DUFFIE advised that he had taken

voluminous notes

and photographs and that he had planned

to write several articles for "Collier's" and possibly a

book. 4

HARRY and BEATRICE MAGDOFF

FRED MAGDOFF

In July, 1948, ELIZABETH T. BENTLEY, who has been

previously identified in this report, testified before the

Committee on Un-American Activities, US House of Representatives,

that HARRY MAGDOFF was a member of a Soviet Espionage group

that was headed by VICTOR PERLO and which was active in

Washington, D.C., in the early 1940's. u

BEATRICE MAGDOFE IS the WIfe Of HARRY MAGDOFF. 4

FRED MAGDOFF is the son of HARRY and BEATRICE

MAGDOFF.4

SAM MAGDOFE

In 1943, DEAN MORTON GOTTSCHALI Of The City

College advised SA W. E. ASSMUS that he remembered SAM

MAGDOFF and the latter's brother, HARRY, both of whom were

definitely Inclined towards Communism at the time of their

attendance at the city College. 4

-

-49-

SECRET

NW 65994 Docld:32989474 Page 59

---

## Page 60

SECRET

NY 100-78633

APPENDIX

Volume 5, Number 1 of "Frontiers," April, 1933,

published by the social Problems Club at The City College,

lists SAM MAGDOFF as an Associate Editor. U

DEAN GOTISCHALI advised in 1941 that the Social

problems Club, if not definitely a part of the CP, was at

least controlled by CP members. u

SERGEI S. MATOV

Records of the Immigration and Naturalization

amtorg Trading corporation sy (S)U

ALLAN MARKOFF

on November 6, 1954, NY I-aladvised that ALLAN dilU

MARKOFF waS

the President of Four Continent Book Corporation

/

(FCBC) at that time. According to the above informant,

MARKOFF sold his interest

In FCBC tO SBRGE P. USHAKOFE

early in January, 1960.150

ELIZABETH MASCOLD

RICHARD and BONNIE

MASCOLO

NY T-20,larconfidential source abroad, has

advised that ELIZABETH MASCOLO was the mistress of TIM

sUcK residea at 10 Ravina crescent

sUCK resided at 18 Ravina Crescent, Toronto, Canada g)

RICHARD MASCOLO is the son of ELIZABETH MASCOLO.

BONNIE MASCOLO is her daughter-in-law. u

STEVE NELSON

6In JuLE, 1957, NY I-21 advised that as of the dall)

end of July, 1957, SIEVE NELSON was a member of the National

Committee of the CP.

-50-

SECRET

NW 65994 Docld:32989474 Page 60

---

## Page 61

NY 100-78633

SECRET

APPENDIX

SAM NEUBURGER

the early I940's

Ion June 23, 1950, NY I-ll advised that during yu)

he had been informed by leaders of the

New York State CP that SAMUEL NEUBERGER

was a CP member.

RUSS NIXON

NIXON, Legislative Director of

and Machine Workers, was known to her as a Communist during

the mid 1940's.

Current issues of the "National Guardian" list

RUSS NIXON as General Manager. u

ISADORE ORTENBERG

August 8, 1944, NY T-2 dvised that ISADORBL

ORTENBERG,

43 Greenwich Avenue,

New York city, was at

one time a registered meinber of the Greenwich

Village

Club of the Communist political Association.

LOUISE PATTERSON

The "Dally Worker" of September 29, 1940, stated

that LOUISE THOMPSON had married WILLIAM I.

PATTERSON.

According to "The Worker" of September 24, 1961, PATTERSON

was chairman of the New York State CP at that cime. u

"The Worker" Is an east coast

Communist weekly newspaper.4

PILOt tO MaY 29, 194.

the CP, USA,

at the l0th National Convention which was held

August 25, 1930, In New York City.

In january, 1961, NY I-21 advised that LOUISE

PATTERSON attended as an invited guest. the three day

neeting of the CP, USA.

neld January 20-22, 190,

5A, Natt Rae

National Committee which was

Avenue, New York city.

at Adolphl all, 74 with

-51-

(4)

SECRET

Kh Toned Tracld:37989474 Page 61

---

## Page 62

NY- 100-78633

SSCRET

APPENDIX

SAM and ROCHELLE K. PERLMAN,

also known as Shelley Perlman

The records of the Bureau of Special Services (BSS),

New York Cly Police Department (NYCPD), reflect that SAM

PERLMAN was arrested on August 2, 1950, at a Union square

peace rally sponsored by the New York Labor Conference

For Peace.

The arrest took place when he called a

mounted policeman a

"cossack"

and refused to move when

ordered to do so. He was found guilty on August 18, 1950,

and on September

22, 1950, he was sentenced to serve one

month in the workhouse for violation of Section 722-2 of

the New York state penal law. y

The "Daily Worker" of May 2, 1950, referred to

the New York Labor Conference For

Peace

as an affiliate of

NATIONAL LABOR CONFERENCE FOR PEACE, 4

in March 15, 1945, NY I-24

Fadvised that ROCHELLE

i)

her father, mother, and sister were members of

the. INTERNATIONAL, WORKERS ORDER, and other Communist

orgainzations./5

August 22, 1953, NY T-25stated that he had yu)

ROCHELLE KITZES PERLMAN for-many years when she

was active in CP youth movements such as the YOUNG

COMMUNIST LEAGUE and the LABOR YOUTH IEAGUE UP Unt11 1951, *

The NATIONAL LABOR CONFERENCE FOR

PEACE, the INTERNATIONAL WORKERS ORDER,

the YOUNG COMMUNIST LEAGUE and the LABOR

YOUTH LEAGUE have been designated

pursuant to Executive Order 10450.4

EDWARD PERRY

A)

The CIVIL RIGHTS CONGRESS has been

designated pursuant to Executive Order

10450. 4

=52 -

SECRET

MMW ICA Docld:32989474 Page 62

---

## Page 63

5291:

NY 100-78633

APPENDIX

HAROLD POSNER

According to NY T-16, on March 3, 1958, the

name of HAROLD POSNER was on a list of individuals to be

contacted for

Analysis.

(uzibuzzons to the fund sor soclal

VICTOR RABINOWITZ

The "Daily worker" of April 6, 1955, contained an

Item dated April 2, 1956, at Pittsburgh, pennsylvania,

which reflected that VICTOR RABINOWITZ was the attorney who

successfully carried the case of STEVE NELSON to the

Supreme Court of the United States.

Tee article stated

that NELSON was convicted under the sedition Laws of the

State of Pennsylvaria and that the United States supreme

court voided this and two other convictions on March 26,

1956.1

NORMAN REDLICH

The "National Guardian" of April 25, 1955,

contains an item reflecting that NORMAN REDLICH took

part in a forum sponsored by the EMERCENCY CIVIL

LIBERTIES COMMITTEE on April 16, 1955.

REDLICH spoke.

on the Fifth Amendment tracing its historical development

describing the modern official distortion of

It which "ultimately makes from its use an inference of

guilt." U

Jon Decemher 12, 1961, NY I-Z/fadvised that lI(n)

REDLICH was one of the speakers

at a rally at the

Manhattan Center, New York City, which was held on

December 6, 1961, under the sponsorship of the NEW

YORK COUNCIL TO ABOLISH THE HOUSE UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

COMMITTEE,

name of NORMAN REDLICH appeared on a list of sponsors

-53-

SECRET

No lonel

1ould:32989474 Page 63

---

## Page 64

SECRET!

NY 100-78633

APPENDIX

'of the NATIONAL COMMITTEE TO ABOLISH THE HOUSE UN-AMERICAN

ACTIVITIES COMMITTEE. 4

DAVID ROCKEFELIER

DAVID ROCKEFELLER is the brother of Governor'

NELSON A. ROCKEFELLER of New York, and president of the

Chase Manhattan Bank of New York. l

ARTHUR and CHARLENE ROSEN

Con :

February 10, 1961, NY I-29/advised thatle

ARTHUR ROSEN aNd CHARLENE HUGHES (ROSEN were definitely

connected with the WORKERS WORLD PARTY (WWP) in New York

city.

PAUL and NAN ROSS

on May 19, 1952, NY T-1T advised that PAUL&

ROSS was a graduate

of a Cp school wich was held in

Queens county, New York, in 1939 or 1940.

NAN ROSS is the wife of PAUL ROSS. 4

ANNETTE RUBINSTEIN

11,

On June 30, 1950, NY I-IIfadvised that ANNETTEL

RUBINSTEIN was the principal or the Robert Louis

Stevenson schoolma private school of which she also was

the proprietorShy I-lladvised that he first heard ofc l)

ANNETTE RUBINSTEIN at the time of the HITLER-STALIN pactl

when she was reported to be one of the most loyal Conmunists.

ROSE RUSSELI

on January 6, 1954, JOHN LAUINER, previously identified

in this report, stated

that the two top leaders of the

TEACHERS UNION, ABRAHAM LEDERMAN, President, and ROSE

RUSSELL, Legislative Director, were devoted Communists

at the time LAUTNER left the CP In 1950.U

-

-54-

_ NW 65994 Docld:32989474 Page 64

---

## Page 65

SECRET

NY 100-78633

APPENDIX

KURT SCHNEIDER

By report dated February 8, 1956, INS at

San Antonio, Texas, advised that on December 7, 1953,

LYMAN A. RIPPERTON who had been a member of the CP in

Texas, made a sworn statement in which he declared

he had known KURT SCHNEIDER as a member of the CP since

1947, and that SCHNEIDER had continued active in the CP.

RIPPERICN stated that CP meetings were held at SCHNEIDER'S

home. u

GLADYS SCHULKIND

)

(K)

Jon July 11, 1957, NY T-30 fadvised that the names

"EUGENE and GLADYS"

were Included among the personal

papers of JACK GREENSPAN.

on July 18, 1957, the same informant had

furnished infomation reflecting that GREENSPAN was

acquainted with EUGENE SCHULKIND who was then residing in

Iinden, New jersey. u

On August 22, 1957: RALPH HENRY, Pennsylvania

RaIlroad Police, Newark, New Jersey, advised that BUGENE

SCHULKIND was at that time employed

• by the Pennsylvania

Railroad as a tower operator. 4

and was in charge of organizing CP activity in the

MAX SEBORER

New Jork Teachers Union.

-55-

NW 65994 Docld:32989474 Page 65

---

## Page 66

SECRETI

NY 100-78633

APPENDIX

on August 6, 1958, NY I-12 advised that MAX

SEBORER stated that he was not a CP member "on paper."

SEBORER explained that ISIDORE GIBBY NEEDLEMAN advised

him in 1942, prior to the time that SEBORER joined the

United States Army, that he (SEBORER) ahould noi join

the cp openly or publicly.

After the war, NEEDLEMAN

the cr

again told SEBORER not to become openly associated with

reason, SEBORER was not listed as a

party member.(

KONSTANTIN SEMEMOV

According to the records of the United states.

Department of state, KONSIANTIN SEMENOV is a RuSsian /

national employed at the Amborg Trading Corporation as

Secretary.

He last arrived in the United States on

February

21, 1953, via Sabena Alrlines P$(S)

BELLA SOLASKO

on January 21, 1953, BELLA SOLASKO appeared at

INS for the purpose of turning in her naturalization papers

and

registering as an alien.

she stated that she

considered herself a soviet citizen and stated that she

had applied for sovies citizenship and received a passport.

She stated that she intended to return to the soviet

Union.

She stated that she had been employed as a

bilingual stenographer at Amtorg Trading Corporation for

nearly 24 years. 4

On April 13, 1955, INS advised that FELLA SOLASKO

had departed from the uS aboard the SS Queen Mary for

permanent residence in the Soviet Union.

She was

accompanied by her daughter FAINNA and iwo grandchildren. u

WILLIAM I. STANDARD

I. STANDARD was known

to him as a

lawyer, apparently

-56-

SECt...

NW 65994 Docld:32989474 Page 66

---

## Page 67

SECRET

NY 100-78633

APPENDIX

(1o)

working in the maritime industry.

ANY I-ll stated thatle

although STANDARD has represented Communist dominated

organizations, he has always avoided being called a

communistsy I sturther stated that through repeatedL

instructions he received from the New York State

Committee of the CP and from the Politburo of the CP, he,

the informant, was constantly aware that STANDARD was

under communist domination.

ROBERT STECK

In May, 1952, NY T-3U advised that he hado

known ROBERT

STECK as a CP member from October, 1949, to

early 1950.

ANNA LOUISE STRONG

"Who's Who In America," 1946-1947 edition, reflects

that ANNA LOUISE STRONG, Who was

born in Nebraska in

1885, had been a correspondent of the American Friends

Mission in Russia, 1921-1922. She was appointed correspondent

of 'Hearst's International Magazine" In 1922 and of the

North American Newspaper Alliance in 1925. She organized the

"Moscow Daily News,

first English language newspaper

In Russia, In 1930.4

The "IOS Angeles Examiner" of February 15~1942,

stated that according to Moscow newepapers, ANNA LOUISE

STRONG had been arrested "accused of espionage anc

subversive activity directed against the soviet Union"

and that she was to be deported in a few days. u

ANNA LOUISE STRONG was deported from Russia on

February 21, 1949, and arrived in New York City on

February 24, 1949.4

The "New York Journal American" of February 25, 1949,

carried an account of a press conference given by ANNA y

-57-

NW 65994 Docld:32989474 Page 67

---

## Page 68

SECRET

NY 100-78633

APPENDIX

LOUISE STRONG after she had appeared before the Grand Jury

she stated that her expulsion from

russia was motivated by her asking "prying questions"

in an atuempt to carry out an assignment for the press and

for the "wider interests of mankind."

According to ANNA

LOUISE STRONG, SOME Russian officials when confronted

with "prying questions" are apt to call those questions

"espionage

ALEXANDER

SVENCHANSKZ

The "Newark Evening News" of May 15, 1956, disclosed

that ALEXANDER SVENCHANSKY was the operator of package

Express Company, 314 Market Street, Newark, New Jersey,

and that the special business of this company was the

handling of packages of new and used clothing, foods

and medicines, to be shipped to the soviet Union from the

offices of the company. 4

The October 31, 1953, issue of "The New York

Times"

stated that HARRY GOLD,

convicted espionage agent,

had sworn to an affiüavit on October 29, 1953, at

Lewisburg penitentiary, Lewisburg, Pennsylvania, in which

he named ALEXANDER SVENCHANSKY aS

a Soviet espionage agent.d

THOMAS SWAN

n January 20, 1947, NY I-32 avised that THOMAste M)

SWAN, 41-15 45th Street, Queens, New York, was an active

canvasser for the CP Sustaining

Fund Drive of 1947, in

the New City area.

The December 15, 1938 issue of "The Volunteer for

Liberty," a publication of the VETERANS OF THE ABRAHAM LINCOLN

BRIGADE, named THOMAS SWANN as a veteran of

the Abraham Lincoln Brigade. n

The VETERANS OF THE ABRAHAM LINCOLN

BRIGADE has been designated pursuant

to Executive Order 10450.

-58-

MM/ 65994 Docld:32989474 Page 68

---

## Page 69

NY 100-78633

APPENDIX

SERGE P. USHAKOFE

USHAKOFF was the president of the Far East Fur Company,

Incorporated, 212 West 30th Street, New York City.

Records of INS, New York City, reflect that SERGe

P. USHAKOFF was born in Moscow, USSR, on June 14, 1090, and

entered the United Staves at San Francisco, California,

on October 23, 1941.

He had previously resided at Harbin,

China.

He was naturalized'as a United States citizen on

March 24, 1947, In the southern District of New York. u

On March 17, 1959, NY I-34 advised that USHAKOFF

was an employee of the Four

Continent Book Corporation and

filled orders received by mail

/(u)

EDWARD WALTERSTEIN

on January 9, 1947, GILBERT REMALY, 412 East

8sth Street, New York City,

who adnitted CP membership from

approximately 1943 until 1949, advised that EDWARD WALLERSTEIN

and his wife, FLORENCE WALLERSTEIN, both oI Wilom resided

at 1391 Madison Avenue, New York Cloy, at that time, were

members of the Herman Bottscher Club of the CP which had

Its headquarters at 350 Fast 81st Street, New York City. u

WALTER ALVIN WEISS

WALTER ALVIN WEISS, currently residing at 200 East

33rd Street, New Tork City

has travelled abroad extensively

in the past. In July, 1956, WEISS advised Specja

Agents of the Federal.

Bureau of Investigation (FBI) that

he had recently travelled in western Europe and had then

visited the soviet union for a period oi 11 days. His tour

included the cities of Moscow,

Indicated that it had been primarily a sight-seeing trip

and he said that at no time was he allowed to view any

Industrial areas. a

-59-

$26

NMW 105994 Docld:32989474

Page 69

---

## Page 70

SECRET

NY 100-78633

APPENDIX

MARIIN YOUNG

In PIttsburgh, pennsylvania, about 1937. He said that

YOUNG was introduced to him

as a District Organizer from

Minnesota. Soon afterward, IOUNG was transferred to

Pittsburgh where he remained as District Organizer until

19170. YOUNG then came to New York and held the position of

Industrial Organizer with the CP. 4

CELIA ZITRON

(ve)

the TEACHERS UNION, Executive Board, In New York City.

These

meetings were known as "top committee meetings" because they

were usually attended by 5 to 8 people who directed the

EDWARD ZUSI

current issues of the "National Guardian" list

EDWARD ZUSI as a member of the editorial staff of that

publication. u

-60-

MH W5994 Docld:32989474 Page 70

SECREI

---

## Page 71

NY 100

786389°

SECRET

1.

APPENDIX

AMTORG TRADING CORPORATION

According to records of the New York County

Clerk, Amtorg Trading Corporation is a New York corporation

formed in 1924. It has acted since then as a buying and

menting agency in the united States for the Soviet Govern-

Since 1949, it has been registered with the Depart-

ment

of Justice under the provisions of the Foreign Agents

Registration Act of 1938, as amended.

NW 65994 Docld:32989474 Page 71

SECRL.

---

## Page 72

NY100

78633

SECRET

1.

APPENDIX

CITIZENS COMMITTEE FOR

CONSTITUTIONAL LIBERTIES

The

"Guide to Subversive Organizations and

Publications," revised and published as of December 1,

1901, prepared and

released by the Committee on Un-

American Activities, United states

atives,

Washington,

House of Represent-

contains

the following

concerning Citizens Conmittee for Constitutional

Liberties:

"CITIZENS COMMITTEE FOR CONSTITUTIONAL

LIBERTIES

(NEW YORK CITY)

"I. "On the basis of its investigations

and hearings to date, the committee

concludes that the National Assembly

for Democratic Rights and a coordinating

and

organizing group in support thereol,

titled the "Citizens Committee for

are Communist

the Communist

Party, the National Assembly for

Democratic Rights and the Citizens

Committee for Constitutional Liberties

were organized as propaganda devices

for the conduct of "mass

activity"

in

support of the avowed objective of

reversal or nonapplication"

of the

Supreme Court decisions of June 5, 1961,

which upheld the constitutionality of the

registration and disclosure provisions of

the Internal Security Act of 1950 as

applied to the Communist Party, and the

Smith Act membership clause making

punishable active and purposive member-

ship in the Communist Party.

1* * * The long-range objective of the

Citizens Committee for Constitutional

Liberties is to serve as the vehicle

Ior concealed Communist participation in,

and direction Of to nullify the Internal

propaganda and agitational

activities aimed

Security and Smith Acts,"

SEChi.

52

NW 65994 Docld:32989474 Page 72

---

## Page 73

SECRETI

NY 100

78633

2.

CITIZENS COMMITTEE FOR

CONSTITUTIONAL LIBERTIES

APPENDIX

1* * * Committee investigation

aisclosed that the Citizens committee

for Constitutional Liberties was forme

on or about June 12, 1901 **

(Committee on Un-American Activities,

Report and Hearings on Manipulation of

Public Opinion by Organizations Under

Concealed Control of the Communist Party

National Assembly for Democratic Right.

ind Citizens Committee for Constitutiona.

Liberties), House Report 1282, Part 1,

October 2 and 3, 1901, pp. 137, 143 and

144.)"

SECREI

NW 65994 Docld:32989474 Page 73

---

## Page 74

SECRET

-=

NY1OD 786331

1.

APPENDIX

EMERGENCY CIVIL LIBERTIES COMMITTEE

The "Guide to Subversive Organizations and

Publications,

" revised and published as of December 1,

1961, prepared and released by the Committee on Un-

American Activities, United States House of Represent-

atives, Washington,

D.C., contains the following

Subvers one an e Represent -

concerning the Emergency Civil Liberties Committee:

"Emergency Civil Liberties Committee

"1.

'The Emergency Civil Liberties Committee

is an organization with headquarters in

NeW 10rk

whose avowed purpose is to

abolish the House Committee on Un-Americar

Activities and discredit the FBI. * **

The committee finds that the Emergency •

Civil Liberties Committee, established

in 1951, although representing itself

as a non-Communist group, actually

operates as a front for the Communist

Party.

It has repeatedly assisted, by

means of funds and legal aia, Communists

involved in Smith Act violations and

similar legal proceedings.

One of its

chief activities has been and still is

the dissemination of voluminous Communist

propaganda

materiai.'

'FRANK WILKINSON was called as a witness

when he appeared in Atlanta as a represent-.

ative of the Emergency Civil Liberties

Committee to propagandize against the

committee on Un-American Activities anc

co protest its hearings. In 1950 WILKINSON

was identified as a Communist Party member

by a former

IsI undercover agent within the

party.

Summoned at that time to answer

the allegation, his reply to all questions

was,

"I am answering no questions of this

committee."

This also became his stock

reply to questions when he appeared during

the Atlanta hearings. * * * WILKINSON has

since been convicted of contempt of Congress

ánd sentenced to one year in jail.'

;.CREM

•NW 65994 Docld: 32989474 Page 74

---

## Page 75

NY 10D

78633

SECRET

1.

APPENDIX

FOUR CONTINENT BOOK CORPORATION

According to the records of the Foreign Agents

Registration Section, United States Department of Justice,

Washington, D.C., the Four Continent Book Corporation,

156 Fifth

Avenue,

New York City, is registered under the

provisions of the Foreign Agents Registration Act of

1938 as amended.

One of the foreign principals listed

in this registration is the Mezhdunarodnaja Kniga

(International Book) Moscow,

Union of the Soviet

Socialist Republics.

66-

SECRET

---

## Page 76

SECRET

NY100

78633

2.

APPENDIX

EMERGENCY CIVIL LIBERTIES COMMITTEE (CONT' D)

'Disputing the non-Communist claim

of the organization, the committee finds

that a number of other individuals

connected with the ECLC also have been

identified under oath as Communists.

**949

(Committee on Un-American Activities,

Annual Report

"To defend the cases of Comminist law-

breakers, froats have been devised

making special appeals in behalf of

civil libertles and reaching out far

beyond the confimes of the Communist

Party Itsemi.

Afong these organizations

are the * " * Entogency Civil Liberties

committee.

When the Communist Party

Itself is under fire these fronts offer

a bulwark of protection. '

(Internal Security Subcommittee of the

Senate Judiciary Committee, Handbook jor

Am 9109n8, 8. Doc. 127, April 23, 1956,

65-

SECREi

_ NW 65994 Docld:32989474 Page 76

---

## Page 77

SECRET

APPENDIX

1:

1%

2U3/0043

FUND FOR SOCIAL ANALYSIS

The

"Guide to Subversive Organizations and

publications," revisea and published as of December 1,

1901, prepared and released by the Committee on Un-

American Activities, United States House of Represent-

atives, washington,

D.C., contains the following

concerning the Fund For Social Analysis:

"I.

"Fund For Social Analysis

1** * an investigation conducted into

the activities of The Fund for Social

Analysis indicated that it was being

operated as a Communist propaganda

organization.

1* * * hearings (hela by the Committee

May 31, June 7 and August 16, 1961)

confirmed that the organization, typical

oi a Communist organization as described

in the chairman's opening statement,

naintainea no lites or correspondence,

no records of contributions, no records

of disbursements, other than grants.'

(Committee on Un-American Activities,

Synopsis, Hearings Relating to H.R.

4700, To Amend Section 11 of the

Sub-

versive Activities Control Act of 1950, As

Amended The Fund for Social

Analysis),

May 31, June 7 and August 16, 1961, p.

1.)"

SECRE

---

## Page 78

NY190

19 8

3

SECRETI

1.

APPENDIX

"'NATIONAL GUARDIAN"

...

Publications,

The "Guide to Subversive Organizations and

" revised and published as of December I,

1961, prepared and released by the Committee on Un-

"National Guardian

'established by the American Labor

Party in 1947 às a "progressive"

weekly * **. Although it denies

having any affiliation with the

-communist Party, it has manifested

itself from the beginning as a virtual

oLIcial propaganda arm of Soviet Russia.'

(Committee on Un-American Activities,

Report, Trial ky Treason:

The National

Committee to Secure Justice for the

ROSENBERGS and MORTON SORELL, August 25;

..

S9

SECREI

IN t94 Docld:32989474 Page 78

---

## Page 79

SECRET

NY10

78688

APPENDIX

NATIONAL COMMITTEE TO ABOLISH

THE HOUSE UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES COMMITTEE

The "Guide to Subversive Organizations and

publications" issued December 1, 1901, by the Commictee

Un-American Activities, U

House of Representatives,

page 11s, contains the following citation regarding the

National

Committee to Abolish the Un-American Activities

Committee (NCAUAC) •

"Cited as a 'new organization' set up in the

summer of 1960 to lead and direct the Communist Party's

'Operation Abolition' campaign.

Seven of the national

leaders of this group have been identified as Communists.

(Committee on Un-American Activities, House

Report 1278 on the Truth About the Film

'Operation Abolition,' Part 1, October 3,

1961, p. 5.) "

A source has advised that the NCAUAC changed its

name on March 3, 1962, to include the word "House" in its

name, hereby becoming known as the National Committee to

Abolish the House Un-American Activities Committee.

SECRET

B/W 65994 Docld:32989474 Page 79

---

## Page 80

78698

SECRET

1.

APPENDIX

NATIONAL LAWYERS GUILD

The

"Guide to Subversive Organizations and

Publications,"

revised and published as or December 1,

1961, prepared and released by the committee on Un-

American Activities, United States House of Represent-

atives,

washington

concent tell conta nathe following

"National Lawyers Guild

"I.

Cited as a Communist front.

(Special Committee on Un-American

Activities, House Report 1311 on the

CIO Political Action Committee,

March 29, 1944, p. 149.)

"2.

Cited as a Communist front which 'is

the foremost legal bulwark of the

Communist Party,

its front organizations,

and controlled unions' and which 'since

its inception has never failed to rally

to the legal defense of the Communist

"3.

(Committee on Un-American Activities,

House Report 3123 on the National

Lawyers Guild, September 21, 1950,

originally related september 17, 1950.

"To defend the cases of Communist

lawbreakers, fronts have been devised

making special appeals in behalf of civil

liberties and reaching out far beyond the

confines of the Communist Party itself.

Among these organizations are the * **

National Lawyers Guild.

When the

Communist Party itself is under fire

these offer a bulwark of protection. '

(Internal Security Subcommittee of the

Senate Judiciary Committee,

Handbook

for Americans.

1956, p. 91.1 S. DOC. 117, April 23,

NW 65994_Docld:32989474 Page 80

---

## Page 81

NV1

• n

786

3

APPENDIX

NEW YORK COUNCIL TO ABOLISH

THE HOUSE UN-AMERICAN ACFIVITIES

COMMITTEE

in March 9s 1go1, a source advised that the

New York Council To Abolish the Un-American Activities

Committee (NYCAUAC), 150 West 34th

Street, New York City,

New York, was formed at a meeting held in New York City

on Novenber 17, 1960.

This organization was rounded

principally through the efforts of FRANk WILKINSON,

FieLd Representative of the National Committee To Abolish

the Un-American Activities Committee (NCAUAC).

A second source advised on September 17, 1952,

that FRANK WILKINSON was

a Communist Party member

as of

September, 1952.

A third sourse furnished on September 14, 1961, a

copy of resolutions of the New York Council to Abolish the

House Un-American Activities Committee (NYCAHUAC) which

were adopted by the NYCAHUAC.

One such resolution affirmed

the intention to continue to work for the abolition of the

House Committee on Un-American Activities (HOUA) and to

continue its efforts to broaden the participation in this

fight.

Another resolution accepted as a modus

suggestion of the Field Representative of the

"National

Committee to Abolish the HCUA" (NCAHUAC) namely that local

abolition committees may identify and co-ordinate their

efforts as closely as they desire with NCAHUAC, still

maintaining their autonomy for as flexible and independent

a program as possible.

Various sources have advised during March, 1962,

that Communist Party (CP) members in the New York City are:

nave been solicited to support activities of the NYCAHUAC

during attendance at CP club meetings.

On May 5, 1953, the first source advised that the

NYCAHUAC continues to function from its office at 150 West

34th Street, New York City, New York.

SECRE:

NW 65994 Docld:32989474 Page 81

---

## Page 82

786331ª

SECRET

1.

APPENDIX

TEACHERS UNION OF THE CITY OF NEW YORK

The 1942 report of the New York State Legislative

substance the following regarding the Teachers Union of the

City of New York (TU) :

"The history of the Communist movement in the

New York City school system is primarily the history of the

so-called Teachers Union of the City of New York, formerly

Local 5 of the American Federation of Teachers (AFT) and of

its subsidiary, the College Teachers Union, formerly Local

537 of the American Federation of Teachers, which was

founded by Local 5 in 1938."

The Communists began infil-

trating Local 5 in the 1920's and by 1935, were in complete

control.

In 1941, AFT revoked the charters of Locals 5 and

537 on the grounds that these locals were under the "control

of the Communist Party and had

consistently engaged in prac-

tices inimical to democracy."

Dr. ABRAHAM LEFKOWITZ of the Teachers Guild, presently

deceased, advised in August, 1955, that after the revocation of

TU's charter, it acted as an independent union until 1943, when

it became affiliated with the State, County, and Municipal

According

to an article appearing in the "New

York World Telegram" of June 11, 1946, the State, County,

and Municipal Workers of America and the United rederal

Workers, both CIO, consolidated in April, 1946, to form the

United

Public Workers of America (UPWA).

The "Directory of National and International Labor

Unions in the United States 1955,

pages 3 and 4, reflects

that UPWA disbanded in February, 1953, after being expelled

Irom the clo on charges of communist domination.

The "Daily Worker,"

a former East Coast Communist

daily newspaper which suspended publication January 13, 1958,

in its issue of February 16, 1953, page 2, column 5, noted

that Tu had announced it would henceforth

be an independent

organization of teachers and had ended its affiliation with

the UPWA.

SECKE:

-NW 65994 Docld:32989474_ Page 82

---

## Page 83

SECRET

NY1C0 78633

2.

APPENDIX

TEACHERS UNION OF THE CITY OF NEW YORK

former National Functionary of the

CommunIst Party, United states of Amorlea, until his exoul

sion from the Communist Party in 1950, on January 6, 1954,

advised that he has known the TU of New York City to have

under the control of the Communist Party since the middle

1930's. He knows the top leaders of the TU, ABRAHAM LEDERMAN,

President, and ROSE V. RUSSELL,

Legislative Representative,

as having

• been devoted Communist Party members as of the time

he left the Communist Party.

The "New York Teachers News," (IN), official news-

paper of the TU on October 12, 1963, reported the death of

ABRAHAM LEDERMAN on October 3, 1963, and that ROSE RUSSELL

continued as a TU official.

announcement

IN, in its issue of January 10, 1904, carriea an

entitled,

"We Say Farewell.

It reported IN

would cease publication with this issue. It also noted

that on January 17, 1964, TU would end its function as a

The same edition of the newspaper indicated TU was

located at 206 west 15th Street, New York 11, New York.

Stutted

- NW 65994 Docld:32989474 Page 83

---

## Page 84

NY 100

38633

GONNANIAL

SECRET

APPENDIX

sit.

WORKERS WORLD PARTY

On April 17, 1959, a confidential source advised

that on February 12, 1959,

a Socialist Workers Party (SWP)

minority group, under the leadership of National

Committee member, SAM BALLAN, split from the swP.

The source stated that this minority group,

referred to as the Marcyites, after many years of program and

policy differences on varied issues concerning tactics and

interpretation of political events, split from the SWP on

the grounds that the Party was liquidating itseli by

departing from the Marxist precepts of LEON TROTSKY and

recreating from the fignt for the world socialist revolution.

The final issue which ultinately forced the split was the

minority's opposition to the swe regroupment policy which

involved cooperation with the Communist Party (CP)

periphery - individuals characterized by the minority as

petty . bourgeois.

the minority program, according to the source,

advocates unconditional defense of the soviet Union and

has as its goal the building of a revolutionary party

with a complete proletarian orientation for the purpose

of overthrowing capitalism in the United States and

throughout the world.

On May 12, 1960, the source advised that this

minority group had chosen

the name Workers World Party.

in May 6, 1963, a second confidential source

stated that the headquarters of the Workers World Party

were located at 46 west 21st Street, New York, New York.

The SWP and the CP have been designated

pursuant to Executive Order 10450.

LURK

4L 3

SECr.

MANY 0c004 DOcodkit39/20x00474

Page 84

,-74*-

---

## Page 85

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

SECRET

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

New York, New York

March 16, 1964

Title

Isidore Gibby Needleman

Character Internal Security-R

Internal security Act of 1950

Reference is made to the report of Special

Agent Victor A. Lemaitre, dated and captioned as above, at

New York.

All sources, except any listed below, whose

identities are concealed in this report have furnishec

reliable information in the past.

were

New York T-6, New York T-10 and New York I-197 LA(4)

in aposition to furnish reliable information.

:

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions

of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned

to your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed

outside your agency.

- 25-

SECRET

NW 65994 Docld:32989474_Page 85

---

## Page 86

FD-263 (Rev. 5-3-59)

• Цілетки

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

SECRET

DATE

REPORTING OFFICE

NEN YORK

TITLE OF CASE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

NEW YORK

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

3/16/64

12/16/63 - 2/24/64

REPORT MADE BY

TYPED BY

VICTOR A. LEMAITRE

rdu

CHARACTER OF CASE

ISIDORE GIBBY NEEDLEMAN

4-30-98

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 SID/HSR

DECLASSIEY ON: 25X

T,6

(JFK)

IS - R;

ISA, 1950

ALL INFO

REFERENCE:

10F

LE 10S

Report of SA VICTOR A. LEMAIIRE, dated 1/31/64, at

5/27/185

-P=

Classied bygaysarm

Booze by on:

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

ADMINISTRATIVE

The agents whe observed OLGA

and "PHILIP FIELD In

contact with SAM CARR, as set out in the characterizations

of OLGA and PHILIP FIELD, Were SAS JOHN B. SIMMONS and

WILLIAM G. O'DONNELL.

(n)

In order to conceal the Identities of NY I-1,

i on an eTe at tee see have not been

the exact dates on which infor Let

invariably set out.

CLASSIFIED BY:

DECLASSIEY ON:

SpilaG gl

OADR

84 30 89

SPACE # 2918301

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

ут t

5-Bureau (100-341652) RM

4-New York

1100-78633

(1-100-775743)

SSAR8O3RDD/CAL CLASSINED BY SPLACES

Classitua

03 cle get

Declassity

eveE

DADR 10/26/83

I24,326

2981313

Dissemination Record of Attached Report

1410,

436

C#784 5200800

Request Recd.

Date Fwd.

at 00306

How Fwd.

BY

Classified

Date of peciassicalion inatrite

N23!?"

SECRET

NW 65994 Docld:32989474 Page 86

-

---

## Page 87

SECRET

NY 100-78633

ADMINISTRAIIVE (Cont'a)

The following Information is not being included

In the details of this report because of the sensitivity of

the sources involved and the nature of the information

itself:

Passports

On December 17, 1963, NY 3401-S* advised that

JOSEPH FORER informed NEEDLEMAN that he had nothing new to

report concerning the NEEDLEMAN passports.

The informant

related that NEEDLEMAN promised FORER to send him a draft

of an affidavit containing detailed reasons for needing a

passport.

FORER offered to charge NEEDLEMAN only for

expenses

but NEEDLEMAN said he was going to send him a

check for $100.00. FORER told him to make it $50.00.

Communist Party Activity

On January 4, 1964, NY 694-S* advised that GUS

HAIL had decided that because of NEEDLEMAN's present physical

condition, LENA SCHERER, instead of NEEDLEMAN, should hence-

forth give DANNY RUBIN money intended for CP, USA youth work at

on vanuary 11, 1904,

the same informant advised

chat NEEDLEMAN gaVe to ISADORE WOFSY $1,000.00, which was :

contribution to the ci, UsA from Donal

of Senator PAUL DOUGLAS Of IllInOISER UI

Communist Party Front Organizations

n December 11, 1903, NY 3401-" related tha

VEEDLEMAN congratulated JOSEPH FORER on the reversal bi

the

Court of Appeals of sanctions imposed upon the CP, USA, for

fallure to register.

FORER pointed out that he had lost

the appeal of a registration order Issued to the American

Committee for Protection of Foreign Born. FORER said there

was not much life left in this organization, and that he

done mast rene me availa lo conta a case

COVER PAGE

-B-

SECRET!

; NW 65994 Docld:32989474 Page 87

---

## Page 88

ite

SECRET

NY 100-78633

ADMINISTRATIVE (Cont'a)

Fences ernes (W

On January 15, 1964, NY 3225-s* reported that

JACOB CHILDS visited NEEDLEMAN's office that day and

mentioned that JACK COWAN, who was denied admittance to

to the United States a couple of years ago, is very anxious

to come to the United States. CHILDS indicated that COWAN

would be willing to put up $5,000.00, which NEEDLEMAN could

have, If NEEDLEMAN could get him into the United States in

a way that he would not have to come as a witness, or

sign any affidavits. COWAN, according to CHILDS, wanted

to come to the United States as a law abiding businessman.

NEEDLEMAN asked whether COWAN was a CP member.

CHILDS said he was not.

CHILDS mentioned that COWAN 1s

the head of a non-communist Jewish organization.

CHILDS inquired whether FORER and REIN,

Washington,

D.C. attorneys, could do anything.

NEEDLEMAN replied that

they would require all the information

the status of the cr registration case was clarifiea.

CHi.Ds decided that the matter could walt unt l

NEEDLEMAN then discussed with CHILDS the position

of the CP, USA as regards certain organizations.

mentioned having recently given (raised ?) $100.00 (possIbly

to the Citizens Committee for Constitutional Liberties), not

knowing that MIRIAM FRIEDLANDER did not enjoy the support

of the organization (CP ?). CHILDS promised that GUS HALL!

(л)

would give NEEDLEMAN a list of acceptable organizations.

CHILDS then indicated that GUS HALL was annoyed

with the firm of Wolf, Popper and Company because they had

failed to understand that a substantial contribution they

had made was not a

oi them every year.

COVER PAGE

-C-

SECRET

NW 65994 Docld:32989474 Page 88

---

## Page 89

SECRET

NY 100-78633

ADMINISTRATIVE (Cont'a)

CHILDS told NEEDLEMAN that until his health improved

relieved of handling money to be

paid to DANNY RUBIN. (

The informant was under the impression that the

problem of setting up a system of communication between

vendinamand the SeBOReR brothers in Russia was also dis.

ussed. (5) ll

According to NY 3225-5*

, NEEDLEMAN gave CHILDS

to GUS HAIL.

some letters On dACOs and HOSE ROVINSkY, peesibly to show

On this occasion CHILDS asked whether NEEDLEMAN

knew JACK PERRY in London. NEEDLEMAN did not know this

Individual but had heard of him as a big shot

HILDS SaId FERRY IS & OLOSe Friend Of JAOK COWAN, Casan.

NEEDLEMAN subsequently introduced SAM BARD to

CHILDS and mentioned that BARD wanted io go into a business.

chillus stated it was not a simple master,

but that in a few

weeks someone would be coming down (from Canada?) and they

could then see what was avajiable.(lU)

[JACK ROVINSKY]

On December 23, 1963, an anonymous source of the

NYO advised that NEEDLEMAN was the recipient of an unsigned

Letter Iron dAck ROVINSKY, dated Decenber 11, 1963 (at

Peking, China). ROVINSky enclosed a summary of an article

which had appeared in the Chinese monthly literary journal

"Wen Y1 Pao."

art and particularly the Soviet film director G. CHUKHPAI

in connection with somel

his statements and some of the

films directed by him.

In this letter ROVINSKY stated that he still

considered

"Ballad of

"Soldier" a fine, sensitive, worth-

while anti-war story

COVER PAGE

-D-

SECRET

NW 65994 Docld:32989474 Page 89

---

## Page 90

N-CRETI

NY 100-78633

ADMINISTRATIVE (Cont 'd)

On January 17, 1964,

an anonymous source of the

NYO reporied that JACK ROVINSKY wrote NEEDLEMAN an unsigned

letter dated January 5, 1964 (at Peking, China) acknowledging

2903 a communteation ison NEEDLEAN dated December 18,

ROVINSKY indicated that he ( and his family)

expected to leave China by the end of July or sometime in

August, 1964, although he had a two year leave of absence

(from Cuba), which under certain circumstances could be

extended to three years.

He stated that he had signed a

one year contract (with

the Chinese) and that he pretty

much expected not to renew it.

Since he had leave of

absence, he thought he would like to have the experience

of working in another socialist country.

ROVINSKy told

NEEDLEMAN that here was a fundanental

difference between

those who are "invited" to work in a given country, and

those that are not "invited" but come on their own.

lle

stated that this difference applied to the level of the

work, classification, and pay, and was not necessarily

predicated on individual capabilities. Fos this reason,

the basis of an "invivation."

udo to another country on

ROVINSKY suggested that working in the Soviet

Union would probably provide the sharpest contrast, but

work in some other country might prove equally interesting.

He indicated that his wife had been teaching English on a

university level, and that he had been working as an "expert"

fron Spanish into Inglish. dalso doing some translation work

ROVINSKY ended by saying that he would welcome

any ideas or suggestions NEEDLEMAN might have. =U/

On January 23, 1964, the same source reported

that JACK ROVINSKY wrOte NEUDLEMAN an undated and unsigned

note acknowledging receipt of NEEDLEMAN's letter of

that he had

COVER PAGE

-E-

SECRET

NW 65994 Docld:32989474 Page 90

---

## Page 91

SECRETI

NY 100-78633

ADMINISIRATIVE (Cont'a)

He added that he had seen

The SEBORER Brothers

In January,

1964, NY 694-S* advised that on

Chairman of the canadian et

advised

was in Moscow during the summer

of 1903, NEEDLEMAN had been there too.

both he and NEEDLEMAN had been invited to an "exciting

party" which BUCK was unable to attend because of a

are que i done, to act a da stood and

subsequently described to BUCK.

The party was given by ARTHUR ADAMS and his wife,

DORITY, in their

were also present.

piment in Moscow. The SUBORER brothers

NEEDLEMAN told BUCK that ADAMS is 7Y years old,

Is in complete retirement, and enjoys the privileges

nonora andra, veen tha tone or enemy colonel ey

BUCK was surprise

that NEEDLFMAN knew ADAMS as

well as he apparently did. lu)

On January 8, 1964,

NY 1286-9% advised that LOUISE

PATERSON informed NEEDIIMAN that

her daughter had written

that she had straightened ou the matter of the eyeglasses

for the SESORER brothers in Moscow), (

Information zegarding contacts of NEEDLEMAN has

been disseminated to the appropriate individual case files.

nis Information has been carefully considered along witi

oüher data

already contained in such files and wherever

necessary additional investigation is being conducted.

COVER PAGE

-F-

NW 65994 Docld:32989474 Page 91

FORET

---

## Page 92

SECRET!

NY 100-78633

ADMINISTRATIVE (Cont'a)

No specific leads are set out concerning known

individuals with whom NEEDLEMAN had been in contact. When-

ever these persons appear to be engaged in activities that

seem to be consistent with activities peculiar to a Communist

apparatus, they are made the subjects of separate investiga-

The results of these investigations are analyzed to

determine whether these individuals are engaged in any

clandestine activity in the intelligence or political fields.

In this manner, the NEEDLEMAN file operates as a control

file.

INFORMANTS

Identity of Source

T-]

NY

3401-S*

File Number Where Located

T-2

1286-S*

NY

NY

I-3

3225-5*

2562-5m (S)

NY T-5

CSNY 1547-S

NY T-6

FRANCES HOPE DAVIS

Northanyton, Mass.

(Request)

134-842-3419

100-29100 (Boston)

NY T-7

EJ 253-5*

NY T-8

NY 3527-S

134-6858-5

COVER PAGE

SECRET

MMY 65994 Docld:32989474 Page 92

---

## Page 93

SECRET

NY 100-78633

INFORMANTS (Cont'a)

Identity of Source

NY T-9

Confidential MallboX

NY I-10

JOSEPH TYSLIAVA

412 Bedford Ave.,

Brooklyn

NY I-]1

LOUIS F. BUDENZ

(Request)

File Number Where Located

100-10769-1B659

100-20241

To characterize:

LEONARD BOUDIN

SAM NEUBURGER

ANNETTE RUBINSTEIN

WILLIAM I. STANDARD

100-68223

100-98924

62-8988

100-18430

NY T-12

NY 694-S*

NY T-13

(RARRY

ZENITH

(PSI, Chicago)

NY 1-1

NY

I'-15.

NY

559-S*

NY T-16

Porner NY 1537-5$

134-1284 (0h1280) AU

XE3M51975)

COVER PAGE

-H-

SECRET

NW 65994 Docld:32989474 Page 93

---

## Page 94

NY 100-78633

INFORMANIS (Cont'a)

Identity of Source

NY I-17

BELLA V.

DODD

(Request)

I-18

1508-55188141

NY T-19

SORITA PUEBLA

Office Manager

Hecla Press

225 Varick St.

NEC

(Request)

MY 1-20

RCMPTS)

0 5324-59

NY T-23

"KAN" (CG 15-S)

(Deceased)

NY 1-24

NY 334-5 9(4)

NY

T-25.

NY

751-S*

NW 65994 Docld:32989474 Page 94

SECRET

File Number Where Located

To characterize:

BLANCH FREEDMAN

RUSS NIXON

PAUL ROSS

MAX SEBORER

CELIA ZITRON

100-102359

100-90750

100-93787

100-118948

100-1944

100-123034

100-57446-4 p. 1

$49

File unknown

100-11.2768

COVER PAGE

•-I-

SECRET

---

## Page 95

SECRET

NY 100-78633

INFORMANTS (Cont'a)

Identity of Source

NY I-26

NATHANIEL GOLDSTEIN

Former NYS AG

100-80675-1B1134

T-27

NY

3477 (PSI)

NY

T-28

3512-51 CHu

NY

1-29

BU 123-S

NY

1-30

NK.

2090-5*

х ш

NY I-31

Former NH 281-S

(Request)

MY I-32

Foxes CSNY 301-S

NY I-33

OSNY 1

NI II-34

OSNY 1290-S

* us

LEADS

100-144252

100-144252

134-14A-1115 (Buffalo)

66-3145-2 (New Haven)

100-26603-1A883

105-18000

105-18000

NEW YORK

ascertain NAK MORes and t 17 contane contacts.

COVER PAGE

-J-

NW 65994 Docld:32989474 Page 95

---

## Page 96

SECREI

NY 100-78633

LEADS (Cont'a)

2. Will continue to monitor NEEDLEMAN's accounts

at the Amalgamated Bank, New York City, and to report

pertinent details.

COVER PAGE

-K-

SECRET:

NW 65994 Docld:32989474 Page 96

---

## Page 97

(Rev. -19-62)

NY 100-78633

SECRET

[XI

[X]

Tobac

Subject's name is included in the Security Index.

The data appearing on the Security Index card are current.

Changes on the Security Index card are necessary and

6

A suitable photograph X is is not available.

Subject is employed in a key facility and

is

charged with security responsibility. Interested agencies

are

This report is classifica Confidential

because

(state reason)

andue disclosure of infomation

furnished by INY T-1, NY I-2, and NY I-4 might,

compromise these sensitive and productive sourdes. ( U)

i7.

Subject previously interviewed (dates)

Subject was not reinterviewed because (state reason)

8.

This case no longer meets the Security Index criteria

and a letter has been directed to the Bureau recommending

cancellation of the Security Index card.

9.

[ This case has been re-evaluated in the light of the

Security Index criteria and it continues to fall within

such criteria because (state reason) subject continues

to participate in the affairs of CP front organi-

zations and to hold revolutionary belleis. He is

suspected of espionage activity and is therefore

considered a dangerous individual likely to commit

inimical acts.

10.

do

is not tabbed Detcom.

do not warrant Detcom

tabbing.

COVER PAGE

-I*-

21

Seukic

NW 65994 Docld:32989474 Page 97

---

