# DOCID-32106384

## Page 1

Date: 05/07/96

Page:

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION

FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY :

CIA

RECORD NUMBER

: 104-10004-10258

RECORD SERIES

JEK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

201-289248

DOCUMENT

INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM : ACTING CHIEF, SR DIVISION

TO : ASSISTANT DEPUTY DIRECTOR,

PLANS

TITLE

: CONTACT OF LEE OSWALD WITH

A MEMBER OF SOVIET KGB ASSASSINATION

DEPARTMENT.

DATE :

PAGES

SUBJECTS

11/23/63

4

KGB CONTACTS

OSWALD, LEE

KOSTIKOV, V

ASSAS.

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION

..

RESTRICTIONS

CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

OPENING CRITERIA

COMMENTS :

PAPER,

TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

SECRET

1B

RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

06/15/93

OSW10: V10B 1993.06.15.16:15:12:650000:

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NW 65924 Docld:32106384 Page 1

---

## Page 2

Se/cr Memo

10 Are

2963

Rosing Cates, ER Division

yes et the sortet

Latera yun phone oll to Mattoo

& Shush

(stolar 1953)

1181000

X2CO

DinNer dission to

intelliganes

is offiatel dastellatlose

scorton, which

13106 HO

Vico Auntied

Document Number

ms 34-538

for FOlA Roview on

MAY 1978

34- 537

Cody

NW 65924 Docld:32106384 Page 2

---

## Page 3

100019, 1s a sep coors Mastero to & Cores Military Lail ising corren

MILitary-Diplomaste Moders, 1900g 00520

*Cans on totra Noo uns sa cover, 296 un say, the Cartet trade

Repesostetion, 2BS or dendatarabaro,

Cвел. N9O 20818 dOnT

madementa da backatoning for non-clandestina ponting» with

tom vite the prorleuly anattooed fortes Suetatutiean. Soyss,

much son-clandastine novelaga vithta a lose reelanay should bo

ronirleted to a nialme both do so place nod ties.

Noting? DE

tada syns Asill be carried out only in exceptional onese tiLi

tanted and reliabla scene in endar to eroid provocation by t2o

Lonel contrint lllenco servies asalast dos Bonlot dratallatioa

Dush nottags are bell as a rus sa toe vort

oftions of tha cans offlour or of the agral during vorklag bours.

they do pot ettes the attention of outalars, and that the sasolt

and transatetal of latellino mattere, properly osagullapad, ba

carriel out Alsonally, Za desting up mich mantlags, raceures antant

Souplag quas be taken,

One must bear in nind that a marting with

pimam saide offielm Jrantes and suring soo-varting boure ually

alpatrios a molessonable batesna the tvo partios shat ta shova and

beysad offlelal mattera."

SOS 10R6,

becatre of inexpertrace or bogoine of delibers

TENNISO Of MA PULES GE PROUTER CATONSA POGULIET POTENAL

apprenahad ous ones efficero es place sos ottallated

so operational nesting assas, otbara telephoral the case offlees at

Ba Sortes Lastallatson and Elecased PATSORAl COntOst ArTRAgiCeate,

vallo olbers s1111 shared up pamonally se the Seriat fontal lotion do

order to contant the sase efficer.*

I called 150

Dang cost lans to to attention dri

00 100

1A3 1030 hosps 89 13 Borater:

NW 65924 Docld:32106384 Page 3

---

## Page 4

5-0

attachtne

3) a13 mill beckeround infosation poy avalletty co the vora

of the 1ith Department of the Porsley Intelligrace of the $Ca!

Streets from la

Bosvies (a), dated m

Sortet use of Klaneyplar an

Action, dat

o1 Asquet 1960.

esaarination

S, dated Ortober 2951.

Moment Il. Baeley

Chief, S/CI

NW 65924 Docld:32106384 Page 4

---

## Page 5

8U335031 Yalerly Vladinirerich KOSTIKOV

КОВтКОУ, кло тая рого од 11 Магой 2923 1л Мовсет, ман

msa16a0d 80 3h0 Soyiel Endsasy 10 Moxieo Cliy sa 7190, Coonus

• 19 Sepsesser 3062.

A Piuont penina Sposkor, Do had Irsvelled abroad Al 10008

three tines vetore saia DerRasent assignment, soreover.

1959

KOSZILOY applied for a xias to secompany Prenior Ulkita Corpore»

PIOn ERRUSHCHET's party so she United Biased as an offlotal

so Sortet Miniatry of Pozales Affaira, but va have no recera

of Alo hariss cose do this country at thas 1159.

XOSATEOS

CorTed ss an interpreter ed laterastional conforanges at Mearse

5n1

Sergelona La 1950 Bad 1939.

In Late 2959 end aarly 2960

he strendsd Sortet exhibitions sa Moxieo Clut sad Earenas ba

La knova so bato Does in Cuba froa 6 Jeonary De. IT. March: 2060.

TRo DATolael donorSpelon of COSTIXOY quite ascarotely faso

SABE Of 6 DeVINS SADO OfflEeT VAS BOArIY & Y005 080 808 18

Manico as micecairolled donble agest.

Tato double ogent'o

Dories cose offiser da the Valtod Obsteo Ras been 0106 Poatle=

DATKIN Of Obo Thirsecata Dopertact, COB TAraS Chlos

Dizootorate, Cocupying the overt position of craneletor-trained.

V-Fo Secretariat, How Tort Oley.

DRIKTO YAS D50310006 A8 NOY

Tork City Croa Deasaber 1960 80 July of faie year.

taras tians outaide the copitall Ia Mareà 1963 and aset Too she

firas avo vooke of Soptenber he vons do Tijuens, Basenado, Ase

Nexteals, casensibly for the purpose of pureheadag boston.

18 e

U.3. Peparanons ef State, bovover, hos reported Shes duria

thes trips XO8T1XOY вез 20011 гертоверсачітев об Метінерве

LABREASTOR LASTORES And SARIZA? COMPARADE IDARRERA CALE, JOSh

Jarce Consenist fross organisatione.

addition, basordiag 80

the September trip by

Ivas Gavrilorich ALYSATTY, and he conssesed la Basenade severa

Including Connantas ayapathisers the proviously.

oeLas06 11ch Beries

offialals abasioned in Mexieo Clty.

ALTEREY CRAVRA conTespondes in Mexiao,

Osses diplonata

and Local Connualat

02082

Jestore during

• TobruerT 1962 visis to Quiso.

NW 65924 Docld:32106384 Page 5

---

