# DOCID-32413161

## Page 1

104-10180-10095

Heleased under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note]. Case#:NW

55997 Date: 10-28-2021

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Fleproduce

'en.

2 January

• 1965

MENORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Manolo RAY

On 31 December 1964 I tried to phone RAY at

767-6138 in San Juan,

Puerto Rico.

He was not at home

and i left a message for him to call Carlos Andrews

(Charles Anderson) at 628-1899 in Washington between

•1200 and 1400 on 1 January 1965.

He phoned promptly at noon on l January (collect).

I advised him that Andrews was not here,

but that I was

acting

In his stead. I did not give RAY a name during

this conversation.

3. I said that I had replies to the three questions

he had

put to Andrews as follows:

A. If the U.S. Government is asked by a

friendly government for an opinion as to whether

it should import arms from the U.S. for RAY's

benefit, we would reply that our position is one

of neutrality.

If requested to give an opinion

Of RAY, we would reply that we consider him to

be a serious

individual of sound

ideology.

said that this was

not all he wanted, but

RAY

felt

it would be adequate.

I said that the fact that

he has a commitment from us to permit the legal

fiction of the arms export on his behalf is

probably the best argument he can offer any

friendly government.

I pointed out we could go

no further than being neutral concerning the act

of exportation because He would

not want to apply

any implicit or explicit pressure on a friendly

government in this matter terms

since we feel that it

must judge the matter in

of its

own policies

and national interests.

NW 65987 Docld:32413161 Page 1

---

## Page 2

104-10180-10095

I told him that the export license appll-

cations are vers detalled and that we would get

him samples of the forms. I sald these would

have to be filled out correctly, without crasion

or subterfuge. I advised him that the data

nvolved in an export license of this sort ta

confidential and 1s avallable only to the u.s.

Government officials involved in the matter and

to the persons directly related to the particular

transaction.

C. I told him that it is not possible to give

him & definitive reply concerning the required

data which would appear on the commercial shipping

documents, since this varles from destination to

destination. I said I had seen many shipping

documents covering arms which merely listed the

inct that the shipment consisted of a given numbox

t firearms and listing the weight. I suggested

that when he has a consignee in mind he arrange

to check the shipping documents of aims purchaseg

legitimately ordered for that consignee to see

what they contained, since in most cases, the

shipping documents

are prepared to satisfy the

legal requirements of the country of destination.

but commented that he

He said he would do thiS lists of serial numbers

wants to avoid providing

which could embarrass a friendly government 11

he arms are picked up by the Cuban Government and

eventually are traced to this particulai

I told him that we cannot give him a hard answer

n this question at this time, since a great deal

lepends on the ostensible destination of the arns:

that we would have to insist that the shipment

follow normal legal patterns; but that since we

nould have a list of all the arms in

permit application by serial number, the problem

of an additional listing on the shipping documents

would probably have to be resolved in terms of the

consignee country's requirements.

4.

He appeared to be reasonably well satisfied with

the replies given him and we signed off with mutual good

wishes for the New Year,

NW 65987 Docld:32413161 Page 2

---

## Page 3

104-10180-10095

3

The information given to RAY (pringraph 3, Above),

with the exception of my own exportonce (so labelled in

paraginph 3), was checked out with Ai. John Crimmins, State

Department Cuban Coordinator In a telephone conversation

on 31 December 1961 between Mr. Edward Marellus, which I

monitored on

another instrument.

THONAS J. FlORES

1/5R

NW 65987 Docld:32413161 Page 3

---

