# DOCID-32288366

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/12/201

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10199-10142

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

92-3182-188

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, CG

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

Heleased under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

65994 Date: 11-01-2021

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

04/14/1961

4

GAL, ASSOC, RES

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 03/04/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC NOTE

v9.1

NW 65994 Docld:32288366 Page 1

149

---

## Page 2

• R.

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGALI

U.S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

APR 14 1961

TELETYPE

Mir. Folson.

Mr. Parsons-

Mr.

Mohr

Vir.

Belmont

Mr.

Callahan

Mr.

Conrad

Mr. DeLoach

Mr. Evans.

Mr. Malone.

Mr. Rosen.

Mr. Tavel

Mr. Trotter.

Mr. W.C.Sullivan

Tele. Room.

Mr. Ingram

Miss Gandy.

UR

GENT 14-84-63

9-10

PM CLM

TO DIRECTOR, FBI 192-31821

PROM SAC, CHICAGO 192-3731

3P

GUS' ÁLEX, AKAS ARO DAILY SUMMARY.

PFRANK LA CROIX PAREN PROTECT IDENTITY END PAREN MANAGER OF APART-

MENT BUILDINGS AT ONE ONE FIVE ZERO AND ONE FIVE FIVE ZERO LAKE

SHORE DRIVE, CHICAGO, ADVISED THAT HE IS VERY UNHAPPY IN METHOD

USED BY ALEX IN RENTING APARTMENT TEN C AT ONE ONE FIVE ZERO LAKE

SHORE DRIVE BY HAVING HIS BROTHER SAM TAYLOR RENT APARTMENT. IN HIS

NAME. ¡ STATED THAT APPROXIMATELY ONE YEAR AGO HE TURNED DOWN APPLICATION

OF ALEX FOR RENTAL OF APARTMENT AT ONE FIVE FIVE ZERO LAKE SHORE DIRVE

WHEN HE APPLIED FOR RENTAL UNDER HIS TRUE NAME. STATED THAT WHEN

and

SAM TAYLOR AND HIS WIFE RENTED APARTMENT TEN C AT ONE ONE FIVE ZERO

LAKE SHORE, GUS ALEX ACCOMPANIED MR. AND MRS. TAYLOR WHEN ARRANGEMENTS

WERE MADE FOR RENTAL AND AT

OOHAT TIME HE DID NOT KNOW IDENTITY OF

GUS OR HIS BROTHER SAM TAYLOR STATE THAT RISE LOING INTO SE

APARTMENT, GUS ALEX ARRANGED FOR THE COMPLETE RESECORAtING OF

APARTMENT INCLUDING FURNISHINGSO NOTED THAT APPARTMEN FURNISHED

WITH

WALL TO WALL CARPETING TWO INCHES THICK AND ARRANGED FOR INSTAL-

LATION OF MARBLE STALL SHOWER AND WASH BASIN WITH GOLD PLATE

FAUCET HANDLES OR WASH

BASINO STATED THAI HE WOULD ESTIMATE THE

END PAGEFORE APR 21199€

Hold

NW 65994 Docld:32288366 Page 2

---

## Page 3

• PAGE THREE

OF TOWN REQUESTED PERMISSION OF HIM THAT GUS ALEX BE ALLOWED

TO USE THE APARTMENT WHICH HE GRANTED. STATED THAT SAM/S WIFE

HAD ARRANGED FOR MAID SERVICE TWICE A WEEK AND THAT THE LAST TIME

THIS SERVICE WAS USED WAS ON APRIL FOUR LAST INDICATING THAT THE

APARTMENT HAS NOT BEEN USED SINCE THAT DATE. INQUIRY AT NEIGHBORHOOD

OF ALEX/S MOTHER, EVERGREEN PARK, ILLO, INDICATED THAT ALEX/S

MOTHER IS NOT OUT OF TOWN. INFORMATION PREVIOUSLY RECEIVED THAT

ALEX HAD CONTEMPLATED A TRIP TO GREECE WITH HIS MOTHER. CG SIX FOUR

FOUR THREE DASH C ADVISED THAT THE GENERAL TALK WHEN JAKE GUZIK

WAS ALIVE, ALEX WAS HIS CHAUFFEUR, IS UNTRUE. HE STATED THAT HE

CONSIDERED ALEX STRONGER THAN GUZIK AND MERELY LET GUZIK TAKE THE

HONORS BECAUSE

GUZIK WAS AN OLD MAN. HE STATED THAT ALEX EVEN

MUSCLED JAKE GUZIK/S BROTHER AND MADE THEM KICK IN AND IF THEY DID

NOT HE WOULD HAVE KILLED THE BROTHERS. MAIL COVER ON ALEX MAILING

ADDRESS DISCLOSED HE RECEIVED MAIL ON FOUR EIGHT SIXTY ONE FROM THE

GASLIGHT CLUB, CHICAGO. ARMED AND DANGEROUSWITH SUICIDAL TENDENCIES.

END AND ACK PLS.

10-21 PM OK FBI WA RAM

NW 65994 Docld:32288366 Page 3

---

## Page 4

* Gr

Baildhi, manage

with

wethod sed-by

prot by 16cn3

brother Sam Taylo

woo olen, had aper tient

completely red rad including chu

He had an

'carpet installed, marble shower

009

plated-faucett handles or wash basin.

"Total

s25c4

Si

of decorating and furnishings approximate

$10,000.Since renting apartment Alex has had

at least 6 different cars available to him, all

late models. These cars probably being made

available to him by Chicago car dealer Henry

Susk.All details re payment of rent for apartmer

etc., being handled for Alex by Eugene Bernstein;

Chicago hoodlum tax attorney Informant advises

Alex was more than just chauffeur for Jake Guzil

but was of equal power or possibly stronger.

NW 65994 Docld:32288366

Page 4

---

