# DOCID-32406681

## Page 1

104-10167-10036

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

65997 Date: 10-28-2021

SENDER MILL CHECH CLAS

•CATION TOP AND SOTTOM

INCLASSIFILU

SECHET

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP

NADE AND ADDRESS

INITIALS

DATE

WH/w/Intol (your copy)

rin.

Sizes Linand.

ACTION

APPROVAL

COMMENT

COMCURRENCE

Remarks:

DIRECT REPLY

DISPATCH

FILE

INFORMATION

PREPARE REPLY

RECOMMENDATION

RETURN

SIGNATURE

fill

201-196435 ej

copy

not already

ther

for 8s 237

FOLD HERE TO RETURN TO SENDER

FROM: MAME. ADDRESS AND PHONE NO.

[R. Roynoldo 7 03

UNCLASSIFIED

CONFIDANTIA

Pipe may Con 20:

DATE

6 May

SHCHET

(40)

# U. 1. BONIAHAITI PANTING CATKA, HR44-O-$41881

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

NW/63987. Doeld:32406681 Page 1

---

## Page 2

104-10167-10036

6 May 1960

HEADER TEE THE RECIRS

SUBT: CT8

rootine

with 'I5. Mandal Moroado isrons on 5 May in lion Tark Clty,

1030 to 1315 houra

GENERAL

lo

Varan astivad the evening of 1 lay and roglatared at the st. POr1ta

total.

ASloS sovor.) IndUcCessful offorts to rosch hia there (beenuse hle clabo

Na 10to), I flarLy. got. hia.: t aboue 2330 hours ind:sheduled " coating with Alo

for the next sominR. I met hla la the lobby of the hrtal, und me spant the boto

lor part of the nest irree houra in a stroll proud ".ntril lart and nt luneh.

For the ilrat hour or so vorons unloadod s nuncer of thrugita on the curro:t

polstseal allu tions sost of those un are alroady fanillar with, but anong the

pointa thrit ho had to nato lara some utich say be new and Milah :to covral belor.

20

Varons vas shocked over the jenate Intoral sacarity Subconzitto's

choses of Col. Vallis carrillo to rustify beforo thaa.

Varons deso-1koa 1l:1a

porson as en staolute par oriuinal sho has to business appearirg before any

official Unitad statos bady.

lio anya that ho slaht resign rinsolf to the tact

that "n our de eratio, pertimantury ayaten of soverent sual thisor san happin,

thoro 19 not ile slightoat rosalbilley that lie airrege Litin imarioan eulal ever

underatand that this sotion does not reprocont the thinkira. of the entire Unitod

sertos Governuento

sion I tried to oxphnin this in terma of our traititlenni

separsit10n of rovers betroen the :offalative und ixecutlve rinches, the fiot

that we sto Ir. an alcation joar, und other axtorustine siroungtanoes, iatona

oxprossed masarrant uhnt we have no tore of a senio of con ou jursase hire in

this country

He apparentl; do.

The Leglulative French goos ine airpotion

and the ixacutive Branah gods anorhor nat there appeare to be 116t19 ovordination

botsoon the two.

Perore the also gulen acherry for the areolal irocedure stish lordo

nation luô diven tim thun la ravaid im fori the nigit baior.

te intuit

that lie had been hundled in a richor docourtrous miy and crudd not underatina

why ho san planed on parole ind inabruocod to loop In 1p, tian and Nibulaliint on

Informed of hia addrosa no nil tines.

1 axilained chile around i realure to his

and anitaised t'a trot thnt lt ma annacline that no Lald on for cily corinin

soloat reople, thrt 16 uns outeine throuph mountine of rod tria la permittim

1i01l.08e, slich no Vorona to novo-rind the onuntry or avon to leero it rid saruiT.

without the martial adainlatr: tive 1118810016119

Thie mollafdod him, and it

lie joint on I could any thie on sonarentin vas on a vory cordial pline.

SECRET

NW 65987 Dodld:32406681 Page 2

---

## Page 3

104-10167-10036

6 Fay 1960

raga =

to

larire last resumad tron the unn'orence on Desocity and "feçdon lo

carsoro, iarona had a nutter of lhourhio on thila in consiierod the linfareros

a prone apocess pros tha -en.diolnt of tha illoral itano sio ha" opposed sny

rOBOlUziOn apprOvina tha CastrO ragles, to dId ChaSe Na a sErorE Love foot Lo

put onor such a rosolution til that ho, arches irango, josa lenielo rasco i nea

othora vero able lo leep such a resolution fros heirs jessed.

T1.0 In1a S;0N8058

of chlo, by the ray, moto seabora il the left mine of so iccion jeroor lica al

Verasuals.

Fo also sald that a nunbur of -poplo of 11b ral tendancioo seburdod

the sootire With pross rIDDorcortiOna cOnCer:jAR LiO rAtuTO Of LIA CABlTO rogLoO

and thas ho and tha clior cubana thie I cantiorod nore ablo to convort a nuador

of thoso. "nong them vere lllando (fnu) of irfantina na savaral others tase

Datos to has recorded.

in other toria, sone good aisalon ty nori nas done it etro

...Confarenco, In torme of offichil rosalto, thare nau vory littlo. tie-tolri c

thas tha agonde uns not torribli well nortod out, that the poo:lo in ittertance

as tha Conteronos voro of iany political tues ind that rothing of great interost

took pleco on tha Iloor 1180ls tut rittor in ¡tivato calcudes ind dirall rostinga

Dahlod the scoros.

¡'Ul mention gono ni the ragulto of tro Conferenco miah aro

of intorost to us sparationally in suaceading paragrapes.

So

Ro quito naturally had a great doel to say -bout the cestro regina asid

ho polnted out thres areas in utilah castro enjora a frast iropaganda idvintago

today, areas utlch no would be voll adulsed to koop in aird in planning our ovu

propaganda. Those are the followingi

Do

Castro's contursion of farmer nilltiry brraoks into schoolo.. Tito

has been a troundous iropaganda succeas for crotro.

Ho hsa managod

to soft-podal completely the spot en't be's built now barracks and ebat

the smy 10 now biggor than 1t over has boono

The Intone riotrunt of outright, dis!lo of the Unitod isntes in the

sinda of nost latin varioans. Caatro has bean ablo to play tila chemo

bankard and 'ornird, oponly and trottly, "1th prost ausdass..

Tho apparent affinity of the imitad it:toss conste for former supportera

dê io patieso replie. Dalo has bo Ecuabaù so la sa cariãor jaraesação

PORSCHAL

Varona cold to trut to planned in yo to thand on 6 lay and roturn to

How York city on the rigitior the mornine of the ninet.

Puring tha: two or throo

daya in Mint ho lento to find in appliant

ie Nil Taturn 60 Now York In 4140

Por tha cootine of othor lubari opposition lacera, Inaiu ins, Juato Corriilo,

fiasco and othoro, and has no interition de t la ¿1n0 ol s01ne, to lashingtaro

in would 11ko to rinn nea alta int denahter on the 10:d09-r8 snos 6s

mesible bus hoges lo can :alan lda decelter to finial timiy cohooi, virion nil

SUPRET

NW 65987 Doold:32406681: Page 3

---

## Page 4

104-10167-10036

6 ray 1960

P0g0 3

coto: unt11 sr0aad 10 1una, lafora tringane hor and tha o:tor isper.

Ho 10 s 100

qullo concypred ibout tha serrnt, in ill lanlly rots:nor, itoso vlas tao rot sol,

Donn iaaued toasuse ol souo diifleuitios sha sot Into sstoral poura "go -luiorit

coirg Ausra l:.l she rins i porking a lniltod Strces' la..

Thlo -iLLer tas boOn

arorad jor an axchango of cablos' "nut: rocormond that a do siacerer o onn:or

Lha soasn ao ss lo set tho "arons "ially'y nínd : l onso ou leis;alnto

Ba letine our converration jarana mio a nusber of jalara uhlan say bo of

valus in cornostion wicb our forttcoing trongards i rogpria.

everal of our

volnarabilitioa. l'ne raiorrod lo in onr el tre carlior piraztaphs, and ua ahoald

do shatever no can lo ropals thetr, inother lofrt of intorest sea inrona's feoling

connra. Franciaco ICHiSO. Thla:gontlonan asod to be 1 UTltCr of cdlicrialo lor

Dlarde do la Marlos, end ho hus Alro vorkod for Bohenla and senzion Glido Ho vasl

Varons has a tory righ regard fos hla es a uritar und

uost anslous to bring nia out and :1ll undoubredly plan on usire hla for sropagande

voltine 11 and mien Irhaso gots cut of luba.

concers:ing the bnracra Conforendo

suich just finlahed, inrons told no that the apeach nhich caldera (1 bollovo 1t

1o Rafaol Caldara, wide at lhe elosine seotion ven, ta hls con sardo, "forzldible",

a Eronesidors sposah.

This, for sone resson, has not been ruüllelzad alther in

Latin lverioa or horo in tie inlted itatos, secoruing to l'aruni.

It siould ho

vory good tor us to do overythlne possiulo ta sirend the mord of Caldara ehrouctiout

tho heniathore. 'arona also asld thit iiduerdo FusI Mondilva of stilo spoio........

extrenali noll on she openiny day hut tkat hls rerarta voro off-tha-ouft and thare

probably 10 no uritten rooard of nhii sioi had to saj.

9. Boforo loavine, Caraaro, Yarona orfaniiod n nuclous of a propaganda outlot

thore.

lio ospoota to usa Carroia no a distribution contor ter ;ropsgandi ithrougho

oit south Auerion and lhe Carlbbern. lle lid a trlk wilh irosident Estandourt

there uho arprovod lilo retlrity.

Eotanoourt told iarona hanceforth lo go diroatly

to the !iniator of troacury, MArCtiRE, as nla osticlal cantaot...

PCLITICAL ACTIRN

20o

larons oorijusiy ina o groni nany iriors on the olieiana pioln.

tio hno

e paprisonentiro in Crraoza,

an 1 hrto santionod, and to hopos vitliln tho nonr

FiSUTy

1.2 to:773

bia osmi sooyle in avery onentry of thio honlaphar: ig egitoprop

BУe54

iN dA Gio roM tliRE hO OxpOdto lO UJ0 fOr tliLO LypO ATAliO FLALLD, sho 10

non an minnil and mio hna baen santlcnod In somuunlastlora to die !lold anu in a

naLoTIiNiEn trON CODAili.

Fiallo la a Cuban, o Somior arnhor of 100i0 Cato)10a.

No'e oxlisne1y 1a12-prlontod 1ol1610 11y ind en exoollure ajecisoro jialdo unio

only ona mistale in llo jolitlo:il onroor, neoordlug la Varona, 'Thrt va8 l 1')59,

Mion he nuriortod tlia ldea of alootlona undor tho t'aelotia roglas.

lie hra ainoe

seen ¿no lieht and lo sou oonaldoroi quito roliablo und va:unblo by varona, mo

PlAMO tO BOnA MaU IA A CUUT OT LAEIA iNATIOA.

SEAM!

VpJ

NW 65987. Doeld:32406681 Page 4

---

## Page 5

104-10167-10036

-9-3

6 HAy 2960

Pago do

11o larons told ne thie batore leaving cuba ho Lea nola to orginise a

mploto unereround soverant of cole so ere not aponto Identifiod vita the

Autontico Morassista

12. Concomine a sito tor A futuro junta, Coremoest-lnexile, "Inactario

or what hato you, Tarons doablo that Conta lilos will to suitable, riolations:

botusen "Papo" Plyuares and irasidant chenail are tot no good is they would baro

to to for pigueros to obtain the approval of ichandl for such astivities. There

noald be no problea in holdine = sootine or series of restings of tils eroup la

san Josa, but as a jermanent sito; it 1s douterul, in Verona'a o11n10n. (I

didn't bring up the concopt of a govorment inexle or iny o! the attendant

lagal problesa, so na didn't discuan trilo.

In sy vien 1t mould bo bettor íos

tha Border-CarT group to raide the Tointo)

13. then I naked his then that Lould be s totter jersaront alto for the

Alreatine bods, he sald that Mexico would be good; but the Unitod Jestos mould

undoubtedly hava to be the sain tasembly point for these pooplo.

varona raleed the quastion of janahes irango, Ho leans la favor of

baring sanchos join the itreatornto, 1f I say cill it thato

Ho did say that

sanchos, like Rubio fadilla, kas to to handlad with kld ploves.

For axes;lo,

Banchez should never attend a neetine of cubana and diair imarionn adviaore,

O. lo KI. Bender of NI. CATT, for the reason tirt to sanches irango this would

appors to ba servitude on dio part of tho Cubans torerda the Abarlaara, And 11

al any lotar dato he had a differando of opinion with the other sureno in tho

group, lie might charge then with leing lackoye of the leerlorne.

mind, Varona recommended that to talk to janches trango soparatoiy beforo ha

folna any Cuban group under nur sionaorship.

15.

When I gave Yarona the lettor fron ¿urn Antondo Rubio l'adilla, lo askod

Do what I thoupht of lublo.

In non-caunital frghion l turned the wuestion aruind

to Tarons hisself.

it this, he antled rot pauaad a long tir. ind then told une

atal ilibio was a tine san but that he had lost two geno nho 11100 of the saso

111nono, that thise hra bido of hlil lf not a bittor man, one uho rossino hia

Independence te

Exúro.ã.

ho is uito engorvusivo bus sree of any involvarone veh ta luctor roglino.

Mole a man mo iskos to work alona and sha do not inolinad to do alone uite thia

wall of the sajorit; In asturtleus

isko tho present one whore mabare of tho

opposition to Gautin aro tryine-lo organdeo despilte Intornal pollutoal decoroners.

In connation with his intry it Idlowild on l May, Unrons askod carr

for nois help thon Cart called hima ditor in tliu avenine.

Unfr in turn raforged

nin to a pentleman rasad leon Dennon to I1rea re 71 lark Torrroe rinst and hos

tho colephansa,

"A 9-144i4 and 16: 704472 tennon toloptiona: "aroun on the norning

of 5 MAy Al Varona'o hotel and voluntrared to hulp Varona with in i roblons ne

alatit have 11ch Imigrasion and Naturallani,son.

Artar l had axplaiuod to nla

NW 65987 Docld:32406681 Page 5

---

## Page 6

104-10167-10036

6 kay 1960

Pr.za 5

Mhrt the sposlal iroceture lamlred, farona anu no further nood to talk ra

Donnorio

tomarar, l a4ifoat0d et c:eck iith unrt lo linù out low chla dall ol

inta our ojareE: on.

17.

The polltioal aure of our discusaion ma to taro follovod a Porare

which ar. "roller ind l mrked out tofere 1 loft.

It uns lo includs a rr.tlszale

for tha TosarE lnltad stacasl joultion in intln:terloa anl vas to covor suca

¡rasa 8o ita traval to inetlaeton, tut liie convorancion ulckly took such a tura

that I diro a eruplo oi cnchespot chargos.

os nne e:lnç, jarasa la iuito

Panfller wich Unftad Statasl dl.inklne on juba and la unhappo : lous it, In tha

rospoota l have cantlinal carljor, tut ll loast lio'a so;hlstlestod anough to

undosatend tha thys and sharafores.

ins radrly iniartant point aiton io úli corar,

boveres, concert.ed the ter. tor fart Broap.i tolit inrone tory frenkly diat derzaln

sotirillos sore not al:tlr. Is prorinos tut :hero uas a proup that i vos auro of,:

hordod by iT. CArT (Miooro nrao inclúsnenlly iarona hod nentiona: to no firal),

thst thla Rroup sas comrletaly rellable and iall-intentioned nnd ild havo tho

proper contaets with eat pererrusrit anid thut te should l'nve no regervatloirs ibort

dorking with thia Rrou!s

it tbla sane tizo, I gare jarons ay oun mrorgeiny

1020,pà0ne sustor, MP 44469, in case ha should tavo any problens with linicod 3taras'

athoritlas auch se lli.

ind i alao dlaçusrod tich tla e nuciber ol s1puros os

Isportanoo in tha laribbean, olftienl s!tuitlcmintall1ps.do atars ihiih na

inerionn offlelil vouil hiza interegt in.

Tho aubleota thnt I tayoldod" woro

prrantlit.r; and the doat:on of conrargion :f ias0a lor do:lary.

to •1:n'1

bring up tha point in' ne talkod about so ,unr ochor thira; that i decidad lo

loavo thie ono tor the netoitien of the tor.domdorr proup, *o ll locked 11:0

a good oprortunity for tiea to halp larons out and theroby establian that iuch

Farona told ue that In cha trelya houro or no thet hold now paon 1a

How Tork be hod aireado racoirod en aspronch fros .useblo dujal, llie inter

et.fel of tha CTC Untas ERtistA.

Throurh s unn naned Aliorto ur

1frade: rus,

Mujal nont vord that le reaopnizal chat any roturn lo cha ititun dea terer trclote

lo nos out of the uontlon n'à t'ae ho la nlllina co lury als ii".

ig': wa seid

work in acaploto haraung wich suoh, corlo ra tono iaronn uilli dis aíno : su'ooelvo

os s1ulino rube of Flilei E:s-..

Marana 19 nus folne to rajo0t e1.19 150i aral

cüi of hará tut lo soira do suulo là vory abroruilo -nú trdi lo acio do ilo culrat

collorguas about sto In tiila conreoelon, lt la Intopestiny: to note tisie irrona

an parhapa ocher vubena day vall te nortanine comarão thia lor er runtoucliablor

proupe of latletaros no ln tha ande nf Mugal "nil Lohiro, tlie irllar tiat l

mantlanar alsontioro.

LAKIWTIRY

2%

Jumotion mith irli-do aroupe, 1o0, che anprulianier ereu, (ino paragrain !1).

lomoror, varona ilad montimni to na tra: no nnd, In Vonanunla, a rrlairl idie tino a

NW 65987 Docld:32406681 Page 6

---

## Page 7

104-10167-10036

6 May 1560

Pogo 6

malthy onor of à finca sIt that enla frlond tad iraslaed bla lo use of tio

fines for such DaTardlit I? trainine jur: osed sa he sipit bata al outo laçor deto.

The converation did not renali so lo lesa the sanla naza at lie lles and I

mention the point hare saraij: as a lead for:casible is los fallomier.

STATBEHLED

Parona taid in tail be had llrod up a bau redlo operator la Caradio,

Pesosuala nad that ho wished to Instituto a radlo schodulo bermona a man in the

Hand area and the ond in ierainaln to elve his communloation with hio aporp

Thia pattory, nia astabliahod during tha batista regio by the rabal

undts, and 18 10 dealrable nos, socording to varona, In VioN of use i 65001008

corpunjection faellities betason Carsors and the United states. I sugenatod

that ne sipt bo able to balp his sot up the huerican and of tale dot.

22, then I brought in the joint of establishine starbehind como nith bio

peoplo 1n Caba to ba la randrasi in the erent of a break in relations wtb so

undead stitos, to vas ulto enthunlantlo. lo 18 going to dono up wilt sures ol

people who could sond to this country fos three or four reake for the nodessary

donso training and then to book in to rork transmitters-racelture and/or to

train atrera.

I also prosieed tarons that de could sako radio transtitton

receirora available to bts.

OVE:

'22. I used the Dune "Robert Rogere" with VarorA, S1:00 ASAILa) 8A8 ALDO

In cons, had soon te the preceding day and neo knons ne se "fogars" this looked

Like che boat nilas.

[B. Reynolds)

UNIRo A 1 = 0/14,4

HN/4/FFUD

iH/4/1n801

i/b/ohroso (1t030 f0r (lie Hacord)

SHONE!

123

NW 65987. Dbeld:32406681 Page 7

---

