# DOCID-32353351

## Page 1

Date:

01/06/05

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION

FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER

: 104-10088-10059

RECORD SERIES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

: JEK

80T01357A

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

: CHIEF OF STATION, MEXICO CITY

TO : CHIEF, WH DIVISION

TITLE

: PROJECT LIONION

DATE

01/06/1965

PAGES

SUBJECTS : MEXICO CITY

LIONION

PHOTO PROJECT

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER

CLASSIFICATION

: SECRET

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS

: RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

COMMENTS

: JFK28 : F7 : 1993.08.12.15:02:52:030030

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassinatior

Flecords Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note)

CaseNt 65924 Date: 10:25-2021

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10088-10059

NW 65924 Docld:32353351 Page 1

---

## Page 2

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION

PROCESSING ACTION

TO

Chief, WE Division

INFO.

RIEPRMNMOTIOM

MARKED FOR INDEXING

FROM

Chief of Station, Mexico CItyL!

SUBJECT

Project LIONION

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

Reference:

ENMH-13207, 14 December 1964

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED DESK

CAN JUDGE INDEXING

SASHIRED

3S D01 70-12

Attached by split transmission is an outline for Project LIONION

covering the services of the two agents heretofore known as LIFEUD-22

(201-288248) and IIFEUD-23 (201-305604). This project was anticipated in

paragraph 4, page 9 of the LIPANCH project outline transmitted by Peference.

2.

To avoid re-typing at Headquarters the Station has taken the liberty

of provisionally assigning eryptonyms LIONION-1 and LIONION-2 to these agents.

Please advise it this is correct.

Laurence Fastes o

REPRODUCHION

CURTIS

PROBITED

Attachment:

Project Cutline, left side h/w

Project Outline, right side usc

Distribution:

1=3.- C/HD w/att,

0004092

007

OSS REFERENCE TO

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

IS GORY

DISPATCH SYMBCL AND NUMBER

10014-25110

CLASSIFICATION

5C:-6-122/1

DATE

6 January 1955

HOS FILE NUMBER

150-5-122/1

PAGE

COPY

NO

- 01 _ 22

NW 65924 Docld:32353351 Page 2

---

## Page 3

SAGREAT DA

REPRORUTI

SION

PROHIBITED

CRYPTONYM

STATION _

ETONION

FIELD CASE OFFICER

Laureuce F. Barker.

Lawrence F.

BARKER

Me a REPRODUCTION AN

PillardC Curtis

Willard

CURTIS

PROHIBITED

The attached Project Outline is presented for approval.

0004093

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

Gom ok

SSION T CO COPY

Excluded fren autaman!

campgrading and

daciesclilesliss

FORMEDED 87 BRUT TRES

0D ERO 03028100

PAGE

COPY

NO.

209_22

NW 65924 Docld:32353351 Page 3

---

## Page 4

ANJA

REPRODUOTION

A. Identification.

This

is a technical (primarily photographic) surveillance

operation against the PBRUMEN Embassy Din

furnish photographic coverage

during daylight hours of the entrances of the target installation, (2)

dispatch physical surveillance teams against persons associated with the

target, ana (3) keep in readiness a listening post for the monitoring and

recording oi eventual technical penetration operations of the target.

The target installation is the PBRUMEN Embassy compound. (including

Consulate) in Mexico City.

The above-listed objectives are accomplished by

two trained, full-time surveillance agents who live across the street from

the target.

The project is in consonance with Priority A, Objective 1, of the

current Related Mission Directive for Mexico.

C.

loes not represent a ne

1962 and coste have hereteeleen charged to PERiMEN. FT Funds.

The

operation produces photographs of persons associated with the PBRUMEN Embassy,

both staff and visitors.

These Photosraphs lare normally reviewed for identi-

Fications by the PaRuman sectuatelt

tation, then shown separately to

LITAMII-9 and LITAMIL-7 who are penetration agents working inside the target.

They are subsequently forwarded to the CI section of WH/SA where they are shown

to PERUMEN intelligence defectors AMNIP-1 and AMMUG-1.

Of those assets to whom

they are routinely shown, LITAMIL-9 has to date made the largest number of

identifications.

The photos have proven of great value. Within hours of the

arrival of a new inbassy staff member his photograph is in the hands of the

Station,

In addition to the identification of stafi and visitors, the photos

(accompanied by a log kept by the LIONION agents) reveal patterns of action

(arrivals and departures) and details or personal associations (who associates

with whom) which are of great value to the Station in mounting operations against

the target.

In addition to paotogradny, LIONION-l and LIONION-a are öften called

upon

to.do.visual surveillance of the target installation and IIONION-l is essential

to the aispatching.of the LID BRACE surveillance: tean against individuals ar

associated with the target.

Because of the presence of police petrol cars in

the vicinitiz, the Station's mobile surveillance assets cannot come close to the

target, bence tha need for Lionor l's dispetchins services.

a valued piece of real estatel

Me prosence DE LIONel DARe TaMes continued occupany os

aNa listening post when the

Station sueceeds in installing additional technical sumeillance devices in the

berget in the for of concep RUMIBiTED

0004094

3

PAGE

COPY NO:

of

22.

NW 65924 Docld:32353351 Page 4

---

## Page 5

-2-

D. Operational Assets (Personnel).

ETONIaN-1 is a young Parmaryer Th@ale. He left PaRUMEN in 1960,

planning to continue lon-via Mexico to the United States where he resided in

his early years.

His two brothers are American citizens, one a desk officer

in the Department of Connercefin Washingtons the other a police official in

Tampa, Florida.

vas recruited, as LILILY-1, to

for the Station and,

once having

a taste of clandestine activity, decided to remain in Mexico.

LIONION-2, hiE

mother,

was recruited in 1961, as LILILY-2, as

basehouse occupant and

operator in

the LIFEAT/LIERODE technical operation aimed at the PERUMEN

Embassy.

At this same time LIONION-1 also phased into LIFEAT/LIERODE work and

the two worked together as a team.

In 1962 LIONION-1 and LIONION-2 worked

together in processing the take of the LIFEAT/LIERODE/MKTRAP installation,

known as LICEN.

At this time their cryptonyms were changed from LILILY-l and

2 to uInaiD-22 and 25, respectively.

In the latter part of 1962 the two agents

began the present photographic surveillance operation.

DAniShly HM-10664. He was

LIONICN-1 is the mainstay.o

tIon. LIONION-2 acts as his assistant

and fill-in at such times as he is absent-from the observation post.

principally as observers and photographers.

LIONION-1 also acts as.

a dispatcher

for the LIMBRACE surveillance team from which he is compartmentea.

Dispatching

is done by radio using pre-arranged innocuous code terminology; the team does not

know LIONICN-1 or his precise location.

LIONION-1 also processes on the premises

all photographic coverage of the main Enbassy gate through final printing, cropping

Photographic coverage of the Consulate gate is processed through the

negative development stage.

Control is primarily financial buttressed by the knowledge, on the part of

the agents, that as PBRUMEN refugees they are vulnerable to pressure which might

be brought upon them by KUBARK through the Mexican government should they get out

Motivation is a combination of financial necessity and violent aversion

to, and determination to bring about the downfall of, the AMMUG regime....

additional notivating factor is that both agents actually enjoy what for many would

be monotonous work. Psychologically, they are ideally suited to this sort of moris.

Both agents realize that they are working for PBPRIME inteiligence; LIONION-1

appears to be aware that he is working for KUBARK.

The cover utilized by LIONICN-?

is that of deperdent mother.

LIONION-] passes. as

a would-be writer who can afior

to dabble witcout notable publishing success.

because of family landholdings in

manich enable him to Live as

er then gainful employment

•In October 1964

this cover successfully withstood.

investigation by Mexican authorities

necking on persons of questionable?

tation plans to bolster the fritill

literary ezent in Naw York City; these wii

SEABITE

ar collection purposes.

equested in separate correspondence.

0004095

PAGE

COPY

NO.

405 _ 22.

NW 65924 Docld:32353351, Page 5

---

## Page 6

E.

REBRAPACTION

PROHIBITED

Comnication is primarily with LIONION-1; with LIONION-2 only in his

Meetings, pre-arranged or signalled by innocuous phone calls (calls

from LIONION-1 go through a telephone cut-out), are usually held at the

LIONION-1 safe apartment.

This apartment, which would

love nest, is in another area of town.

appear to be a LIONION 1

The Station KURIOT technician,

Fugh T. FRANCOTTE, meets with LIONION-1 at least once a week.

The Case Officer,

Lawrence F, BARKER, meets with him less frequently.

Whereas LIONION-1 knows

the true name of the Case Officer, he does not know FRANCOITE's true identity.

Security Evaluation. If either of the LIONION agents are uncovered by Mexican

authorities as engaged in operations against the target, they have been briefed

to indicate that they are working for an exile organization based in the JWAVE

area on a voluntary, non-paid, patriotic basis and to stick to the story covering

their income. This would probably hold up unless they were caught in flagrante

with the furior automatic pulse camera on the premises. This camera is of such

refinement ará complexity as to be difficult to ascribe to an exile organization.

In any event, LIONION-1 has a close relationship with an official of the Mexican

president's office.

This connection, developed by LIONION-1 for his own protection,

enabled him to weather the tax investigation and can be used by him to overcome any

future aifficulties with Meybuthinities

ПОТЛОД

activity of the project is

not illegal, therefore uncovering of the photographic-operation-would not of ar

ing material from the premises.

in one evening and could again be cleaned, probably in less time, if circumstances.

should warrant.

The target installation is aware that photo surveillance is a probability.

On one occasion A KNOB-1, a JMHAVE asset,

was shown a nearby building (not the

LIONION base) by a PBRUMEN Embassy officer and told that it was a KUBARK photo

base.

LIONION-i is known by sight to some PBRUMEN Enbassy staff personnel who have

observed hin in the neighborhood. (Presumably they believe he is a Mexican..

avoid operational compromise, he cannot renew his expired passport at the

PBRUMEN Consulate. For this reason the Station will request KURICT in separate.

correspordence to prepare new passports for both LIONION agents so that they may

travel outside Mexico.

Security measures employed in this operation

are designed to make it virtually

impossible for any opposition service to link LIONION personnel with the Station:

"Coordination. Coordination with other peerdic elements or the liezican soverment

Is not necessary at this time and none is envisaged.

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

0004096

5

PAGE

COPY

CNW 65924 Docld:32353351 Page 6

---

## Page 7

G.

Costs.

as showa below:

To tota a REPRODUCTION 1a 120,478, atonated

PROHIBITED

F 56

Total

$1920

$2240

S4:100

LIONION-1 salary

13 months @ $320

LIONION -2 salary

13 months @ $150

Real estate rentals:

LIONION Sasehouse

LICSION Safenouse

Utilibies on both houses

900

600

264

150

1050

600

254

150

Supplies

1170

1170

(Pnotographic film, paper,

chemicals, and miscellaneous )

Iotals

REPRODUCTIOL

N 274

1950

1200

528

300

2340

$10478

the custonary year end

bonus

one month's

salary.

"shal, vas raised from $200 to

$320 monthly in 195, to compencate in part for his renunciation of a

sales position in order that he might devote his full time to the LIONION

operation.

LIONTON-2's salary has remained at $150 per monti since her

recruitment in 1961.

No salary changes are contemplated during the

project jeer.

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

0004097

PAGE

6 08 22

COPY NO.

IF NW 65924 Docld:32353351 Page 7

---

