# DOCID-32108503

## Page 1

Date:

Page:

07/10/96

1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION

FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER

: 104-10013-10361

RECORD SERIES

JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

201-289248

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR :

CIA

FROM

: CHIEF, WH DIVISION

TO

COS, MEXICO CITY

TITLE

DISPATCH RE ROLE OF MEXICO CITY STATION ROLE IN INVESTIGATION.

DATE

12/17/63

PAGES

3

SUBJECTS

STATION

DOCUMENT TYPE

RESTRICTIONS

CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

COMMENTS : OSW17:V3 1993.06.29.12:15:24:500800:

Released under the John F. Kennedu

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

65924 Date: 10-21-2021

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NW 65924 Docld:32108503 Page 1

---

## Page 2

UNCLASSIFIED

SUBJECT: (Optional)

FROM:

EXTENSION

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and

building)

DATE

RECEIVED

FORWARDED

FFICER'

VITIAL:

1.

2.

SCOTT

White

3.

4.

Manell

31

5.

Shaw

6.

7.

Goodpastura

Keenan

8.

217(

Hanell

10.

11.

3/ 063)

PRO

Falo inde.

a fan

12.

13.

14.

Fan 78,

15.

Dotte

FORM

610 USEDIRENSUS

EDITIONS

NW 63924 Docld:32108503 Page 2

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

NTERNAL

SECRET

USE ONLY

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

IDENTIAL

..*:

SECRET

NO.

DATE

HMMW-12193

17 Dec63

COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom

to whom.

Draw a line across column after each comment.)

?

ONE SEA JING

FOR

77/64

seriato

STATION

135920

reud:

23

INTERNAL

USE ONLYCE UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 3

DISPATCH

Chief of Station, Mexico City

?. CLASSIFICATION

SECRE

TO

INFO.

FROM

SUBJECT

Chief, WHD

RYBAT/f

ACTION REQUIRED • REFERENCES

POSED

XX

PROCESSING

ACTION

MARKED FOR INDEXING

•NO INDEXING REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED

HEADQUARTERS DESK

CAN JUDGE INDEXING

ABSTRACT

MICROFILM

ACCOM•

PLISHED

1.

We would like to take time out in our investigation of the President's

assassination to appraise the role of the Mexico City Station in the whole affair.

Since the early afternoon of 22 November 1963, Mexico City has been the only

major overseas reporter in the case.

While this 1s partly dictated by the

facts of Lee OSWALD's life, we have not overlooked the really outstanding per-

formance of Mexico City's major assets and the speed, precision, and perception

with which the data was forwarded. Here it was relayed within minutes to the

White House, ODACID, and ODENVY.

2.

Your LIENVOY data, the statements of Silvia DURAN, and your analyses

were major factors in the quick clarification of the case, blanking out the really

ominous spectre. of foreign backing.

We regret that we have been able to send you so little information in

return, but we have not been given much yet. We do know that Lee SWALD denied

he had ever been to Mexico except for a jump to lla Juana. We have quickly

screened the FBI report on the whole case but we do not yet have a copy for

retention. It does not compromise your sources. Basically, what the New York

Times has printed about the report is all true.

3•

We

have meanwhile been flooded with fabrications, of which the ALVARADO

story was the most troublesome.

They are still coming in.

Distribution:

0&1 - COS, Mexiço City

Dup of

396-746

(CONTINUED.)

^ CROSS REFERENCE TO

CLASSIFICATION

DATE TYPED

13 Dec 1963

DATE DISPATCHED

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

I/PEC

Tauo

HMMW -12193

HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBER

7201-287248

NW 65924 Docld:32108503_Page 3

---

## Page 4

CLASSIFICATION

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

RISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER.

HMMW -12193

4.

You have had good

support from your liaison, but as usual the really

outstanding features were Mexico Station's lamous generalship and the skill and

devotion of its personnel. Please convey our admiration to all who participated,

down to the last technician,

translator, and monitor.

We know that the work

your Station did during the President's 1962 visit made you feel this tragedy

with particular keenness, as did we.

Slives 9, Galbond

OLIVER G.

LALBONI

FORM

5.60

53a

USE PREVIOUS EDITION.

CL/ 3S FICATION

SECRET

CONTINUED

PAGE NO.

2

NW 65924 Docld:32108503 Page Ph

---

