# DOCID-32175775

## Page 1

Date: 06/29/94

Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10183-10062

RECORDS SERIES :

ME

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

:

62-1840-1

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR

FROM

TO

TITLE

:

Heleased under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note]. Case#:NW

55994 Date: 11-01-2021

DATE

PAGES

:00/00/00

SUBJECTS :

NAR

DOCUMENT TYPE

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS

CURRENT STATUS

:

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

OPENING CRITERIA:

INDEFINITE

U

P

NOT ASSASSINATION RELATED

06/29/94

COMMENTS :

(R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NW 65994 Docld:32175775 Page 1

---

## Page 2

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

POST PONCHENT INFORKATION SHEET (JFK HATERIALS)

Page (s) withheld entirely at this location in the file.

One

or more of the following statements, where indicated,

explain this deletion (these deletions).

Deletions were made pursuant to the postponement

rationale indicated below with no segregable material

available for disclosure.

All references relate to

Section 6 of the "President John F. Kennedy Assassination

Records Collection Act of 1992."

[]

Subsection 1A (intelligence agent's identity)

I] Subsection 1B (intelligence source or method)

[] Subsection 1C (other matter relating to military

defense, intelligence operations or

the conduct of foreign relations)

[] Subsection 2

(living person who provided

confidential information)

[] Subsection 3

[] Subsection 4

(unwarranted invasion of privacy)

(cooperating individual or foreign

government, currently requiring

protection)

[] subsection 5

(security or protective procedure,

currently or expected to be utilized)

[)

Information pertained to a matter unrelated to the JFK

Assassination investigation.

For your information:

The following number is to be used for reference

regarding this page (these pages) :

mE62.1840-1

xxXxxxxxXX

XXXXXxXXXX

XXXXXXXXXX

consore

XXXXX 0X0X0X0 0X0

NW 65994 Docld:32175775 Page 2

---

## Page 3

NW 65994 Docld:32175775 Page 3

File #: ME

62-1840

Serial

Number

Document

Date

01/14/76 AT

Document

Type

Document

From

HQ

Page:

Grand Totals.....

End of Report.:..

Document

TO

3rd

Agy

JFK Inventory Sheet

(COMMITTEE FILES)

section #: 1

Other

Direct

Dupes

ACTUAL PERT.

Rev.

01

Re: PIKE COMM.

with-

held

FBI Ref

Duplicate

Location

Postponements

NAR

---

## Page 4

09 (Rov. 2-14-74).

FBI

Airtel

*Transmit in

---=

66: 2010

665.7152

Via

(Type in plaintext or code)

To: - SAC, Albany

From:

Director, FBI

COST OF RESPONDING TO INQUIRIES FROM

OTHER AGENCIES, CONGRESSIONAL COMMITTEES

IND REQUESTS UNDER THE FREEDOM OF INFORMATIOI

AND PRIVACY ACTS (FOIPA)

166-2141

(Precedence)

-=

1/14/76

(Date)

PERSONAL ATTENTION

As you are aware, the FBI is currently responding

to inquiries from various Congressional committees and agencies

such as the General Accounting Office.

In addition, we are

having to devote ever larger amounts of resources to the

handling of requests under provisions of the FOIPA."

While much of the effort required to process these

matters is expended at FBIHQ, the field offices are increas-

ingly being called on to give responses.

From time to time

in the past, the cost of responding

to the inquiry of a

particular comnittee or agency has been monitored when this was

deemed appropriate.

Since it appears the high volume of inquiries will

continue for the foreseeable future, it is necessary to

provide for an efficient,

standardized mechanism of collecting

cost data and reporting the time spent servicing requests from

all oversight groups which will be instituted immediately.

The time spent on rollA matters will also be reported through

this centralized system.

As major inquiries from new groups

are received, the time spent

servicing these requests should

also be reported.

Under this system, each field office will submit

an appropriate communication monthly reporting the time spent

2 - Each Field Office.

(Do not type below thi

SACI

(Do not type BEYOND

THIS MARGIN.J

NW 65994 Docld:32175775 Page 4

Tmade

662-1840-1

SOMALIZED

UNDENED

JANZ 1 1976

Sheekurne 103

SP Rolecto

124-10183-10062-1

---

## Page 5

Airtel to Albany

Re:

Cost of Responding to Inquiries From .

responding to the requests of various groups and handling

FOIPA matters.

This information must be received by the

fifteenth of the

month following the month being reported on

and should be directed to the attention of the Budget and

Accounting Section.

For uniformity, the information should be reported in

the following sample format:

Office: Albany

Month: January, 19/6

General Accounting Office

Agent Hours:

21

Clerical Hours: 11

Freedom of Information Act

Agent Hours:

Clerical Hours:

13

Privacy Act

Agent Hours:

Clerical Hours: 7

Field offices are not expected to keep detailed

time records.

Reliable estimates are acceptable and time

should be reported to the nearest whole hour.

The groups and activities which are being monitored

at the present time are as follows:

Senate Select Committee on Intelligence Activities

House Select Committee on Intelligence Activities

General Accounting Office

Freedom of Information Act

Privacy Act

C0eü War RS 930/22

should be reported on any oversight afforded

to the FBI and should not be restricted to the committees and

seat not now de sere

agencies described above.

For accountability purposes a

report should be submitted

by each field office each month, even if there is little or

no time to be reported. The first report is to be submitted by

February 15, 1976 for the month of January.

2

124-10183-10062-2

NW 65994 Docld:32175775 Page 5

---

## Page 6

Airtel to Albany

Re:

Cost of Responding to Inquiries From. •

The adoption of this system will eliminate the

need to send numerous reports on individual groups or projects

each month.

Also, the form of data collection will now be

useful for budget justification purposes if it becomes

necessary to seek additional personnel to handle this work.

Your cooperation is appreciated.

124-10183-10062-3

NW 65994 Docld:32175775 Page 6

---

## Page 7

Best available image

PIRECTOR FOr-062-1 (7291)

DEPLATE

LIONS, MATE

'OUSE SILEOS COMMITTEE ON ASSA STATIONS

MISCA, BY LETTER DATED MAY 2A

1979r

ERCICES MATRE MEMPHIS FILE OF RESTILE

OURAELL SMITHE DATE OF BINTICIARUARTO

асо вЕ тЕо то РЕКОВН

SE CUTIETHS EXCEPT CONCENT ON

TURNISTRY TRRESPECT VE

LON 7SN

DONIVER MONOMITH ALUGET POS

FEMPKES SHOUSE SEARCH MA

PENELOAN

NW 65994 Docld:32175775 Page 7

124

---

## Page 8

Best avat-able image

124 A00e 10063 5

NW 65994 Docld:32175775 Page 8

---

