# DOCID-32176546

## Page 1

Date: 07/29/94

Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY

: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10185-10212

RECORDS SERIES :

LR

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note]. Case#:NW

55994 Date: 11-01-2021

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 66-1880-1 THRU 12

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR

FROM :

TO :

TITLE :

DATE :

00/00/00

PAGES

:

SUBJECTS :

NAR

DOCUMENT TYPE

CLASSIFICATION

:

U

RESTRICTIONS : NOT ASSASSINATION RELATED

CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 07/29/94

OPENING CRITERIA :

INDEFINITE

COMMENTS

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NW 65994 Docld:32176546 Page 1

---

## Page 2

Date: August 2, 2021

From: National Archives and Records Administration

Subject: Reconstructed FBI File LR 66-1880, Serials 1-12

To: The File

This memorandum briefly summarizes the status of missing original Federal Bureau of

Investigation (FBI) case files or portions of case files in the President John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection (JFK Collection) and documents the National Archives and

Records Administration's (NARA) efforts to reconstruct these records, where possible, from

duplicate copies of documents located in other FBI files.

As the JFK Collection was first compiled and reviewed in the 1990s, the Assassination Records

Review Board and the FBI designated some records as "not believed relevant" (NBR) or "not

assassination related" (NAR). The FBI retained custody of the NBR/NAR records and

, postponed their transfer to NARA until a later date. Every document or group of documents

("serials"), however, received an indexed Record Identification Form (RIF) and FBI inventory

sheet for insertion into the JFK Collection.

After an extensive search, neither the FBI nor the National Archives could locate a small

number of NAR documents or case files.

This compilation represents NARA's efforts to reconstruct the original file or portions of the file,

as completely as possible, with duplicate copies of documents located in the FBI field office and

headquarters files within the JFK Collection. Each reconstructed file or compilation contains a

Record Identification Form, an explanatory cover memo, existing administrative documents

available within the JFK Collection, and copies of identified duplicate documents. The table

below summarizes the status of FBI file LR 66-1880, Serials 1 through 12.

RIF Number

FBI File

Number

List of Serials

From Inventory

Sheet

List of Identified

Serials at NARA

124-10185-10212

LR 66-1880

1-12

1-10, 12

Reconstructed

Status (None,

Partial,

Complete)

Partial

NW 65994 Docld:32176546 Page 2

---

## Page 3

FEDERAL BURBAU OF INVESTIGATION

POSTPONEKENT INPORMATION SHEET (JFK MATERIALS)

_Page (s) withheld entirely

at this location in the file.

One or more of the following statements, where indicated,

explain this deletion (these deletions) •

Deletions were made pursuant to the postponement

rationale

indicated below with no segregable material

available for disclosure.

All references relate to

Section 6 of the "President John F. Kennedy Assassinatior

Records Collection Act of 1992."

[] Subsection 1A (intelligence agent's identity)

[] Subsection 1B (intelligence source or method)

(] Subsection 1C (other matter relating to military

defense, intelligence operations or

the conduct of foreign relations)

[] Subsection 2

(living person who provided

confidential information)

[]. Subsection 3

[] Subsection 4

(unwarranted invasion of privacy)

(cooperating individual or foreign

government, currently reguiring

protection)

[] Subsection 5

subsection security expectin

currently or expected to be utilized)

Information pertained to a matter unrelated to the JFK

Assassination investigation.

(] For your information:

I4 The following number is to be used for reference

regarding this page (these pages) :

48 66-1880-1thRu12

xXXXXXXXXX

xXXXXXXXXX

XXXXXXXXXX

XXXXXXXXXX

XXXXXXXXXXXX

XXXXXXXXXX

NW 65994 Docld:32176546 Page 3

---

## Page 4

NW 65994

Docld:32176546

Page 4

File #:

_IR

66-1880

Serial

Number

Document

Date

Document

Type

Document

From

03/24/75

TT

03/26/75

TT

_ 05/02/75

05/20/75

TT

TT

05/28/75

06/13/75

05/28/75

MEMO

08/12/75

MEMO

09/04/75

10

10/09/75 TT

11

10/16/75 MEMO

12.

11/21/75 RS

12

11/20/75

HQ

LR

HQ

HQ

HQ

HQ

HQ

HQ

KELLY

HQ

NEWS ARTIC NY

NR

10/07/86

MEMO

Page:

Document

TO

ALL SACS

HQ

ALL SACS

ALL SACS

AX

ALL SACS

ALL EMPLOY

ALL SACS

ALL SACS

ALL SAGS

ALL AGENTS

LR

3rd

Agy

JFK Inventory Sheet

(Committees

Files)

section #: 1

other

Direct

Dupes

ACTUAL PERT.

Rev.

Rel.

Re:

CHURCH COMM.

With-

FBl Ref

held 3rd Agy

Duplicate

Location

Postponements

NAR

NAR

NAR

NAR

NAR

NAR

NAR

NAR

NAR

NAR

NAR

NAR

NAR

NAR

---

## Page 5

NW 65994 Docld:32176546 Page 5

Grand Totals.....

End of Report....

32

32

---

## Page 6

NRO46 WA CODE

8:48PM NITEL 3-24÷75 DEB

TO ALL SACS

FROM DIRECTOR

SENATE SELECI COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

SENATOR FRANK CHURCH, CHAIRMAN OF THE SENATE SELECT

COMMITTEE TO STUDY GOVERNMENTAL OPERATIONS WITH RESPECI TO

INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES HAS MADE AN INITIAL REQUEST FOR INFORMATION

FROM THE FBI. AMONG THE ITEMS REQUESTED IS A BREAKDOWN OF

FIELD AGENT PERSONNEL ASSIGNED TO INTERNAL SECURITY AND

COUNTERINTELLIGENCE MATTERS.

ACCORDINGLY, WITHIN FOUR EIGHT HOURS EACH SAC SHOULD SUTEL

TO FBIHQ, ATTENTION: BUDGET AND ACCOUNTING SECTION, SETTING FORTH

SEPARATELY THE NUMBER OF SACS, ASACS, SUPERVISORS AND AGENTS

ASSIGNED

TO INTERNAL SECURITY AND COUNTERINTELLIGENCE MATTERS. PERCENTAGES

OF AN AGENTS TIME, WHEN NOT ASSIGNED FULL-TIME IO THESE ACTIVITIES,

SHOULD BE USED IF APPROPRIATE, PARTICULARLY IN THE SUPERVISORY

CATEGORIES. THIS INFORMATION SHOULD BE BROKEN DOWN SEPARATELY

BETWEEN INTERNAL SECURITY AND COUNTERINTELLIGENCE. YOUR RESPONSE SHOULD

BE LIMITED TO AGENT PERSONNEL ONLY.

END

love

Oper

68-23681

6t 2885

SEACShE

З Вість 5 Лес

MAR 244 1975

-I- ALBATiY

Stoops: 2

NW 54955 DocId:32989494 Page 2

NW 65994 Docld:32176546 Page 6

---

## Page 7

28

NR DB4 LR PLAIN

3:09 PM URGENT MARCH 26, 1975 GM

TO

DIRECTOR

FEDERAL BURERS OF INVESTIGATION

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

MAR 2 6 1975

TELETYPE

Mudantin

FROM LITILE ROCK (66-1880)

ATTENIIÓNC BUDGET AND ACCOUNTING SECTION.

SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES.

RE BUREAU TELETYPE TO ALL SAC'S, MARCH 24, 1975.

FOLLOWING SET FORTH IN RESPONSE TO REFERENCED

+

TELETYPE:

TWO AGENTS IN LITTLE ROCK DIVISION

ASSIGNED PART-TIME

ON INTERNAL SECURITY AND COUNTERINTELLIGENCE MATTERS WITH

BREAKDOWN OF TIME SPENT AS FOLLOWS:

ONE AGENT SPENDS APPROXIMATELY 45 PERCENT OF TIME

ON INTERNAL SECURITY AND 5 PERCENT ON COUNTERINIELLIGENCE

MATTERS. SECOND AGENT SPENDS APPROXIMATELY 65 PERCENT

OF TIME ON INTERNAL SECURITY AND 10 PERCENT ON COUNTER-

INTELLIGENCE MATTERS. ONE SUPERVISOR SPENDS APPROXIMATELY

8 PERCENT OF HIS TIME ON INTERNAL SECURITY AND 2 PERCENT

ON COUNTERINTELLIGENCE MATTERS.

END

25G0G Dir..

Dep-A.D.-Adm

Asst. Dir.:

Admin. ..

Comp. Syst.

Ext.

Affairs

Files &s Cum.

Gen. Int.

Ident.

Inspection

Intell.

Laboratur

Plan.

&

Eval. a

Training --

Legal Coun

Telephone Ru. -

Dincator Sec's -

#mORIS

ATT. TRTORNACTON COUTAILED

"THE TE VISASSIFIED

3it

NV 55118 DocId:32989628 Page 335

NW 65994 Docld:32176546 Page 7

---

## Page 8

NRO74 WA CODE

193508888888888C016CCPM NITEL. 5-2-75 MSE

TO ALL SACS

FROM DIRECTOR (62-115395)

PERSONAL AITENTION

SENSTUDY 75

CAPTIONED MATTER PERTAINS TO BUREAU'S HANDLING OF REQUESTS

FROM SENATE AND HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEES TO STUDY GOVERNMENIAL

OPERATIONS

WITH RESPECT TO INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES. IN CONNEC-

TION WITH WORK OF THESE COMMITTEES, STAFF MEMBERS MAY SEEK

TO INTERVIEW SURRENT AND FORMER FBI EMPLOYEES.

RECENILY, THE SENATE SELECT COMMIITEE (SSC) STAFF HAS

INTERVIEWED SEVERAL FORMER EMPLOYEES AND II IS ANTICIPATED

THAI MANY MORE SUCH PERSONNEL WILL BE CONTACTED.

THE FBI HAS PLEDGED FULL COOPERATION WITH THE COMMIITEE

AND WE WISH TO ASSIST AND FACILITATE ANY INVESTIGATIONS UNDER-

TAKEN SY THE COMMITTEE WITH RESPECT TO THE FBI. HOWEVER, WE

DO HAVE AN OBLIGATION TO INSURE IHAI SENSITIVE SOURCES AND

METHODS AND ONGOING SENSITIVE INVESIIGATIONS ARE FULLY

destroyed

Doze.

67-DEAD

fic

HW 54955 DocId: 32989494

Page 5

NW 65994 Docld:32176546 Page 8

62 - 2368-18

SEARCHED

INDEXED

SERIALIZED

MAy

- 11975

FBI - 1

stoops

ALBANY

ADVISE ALL EMPLOYEES,

Put in wehly mucino for 5/8/355115

---

## Page 9

PAGE TWO

PROTECTED. SHOULD ANY FORMER EMPLOYEF CONTACT YOUR OFFICE AND

HAVE ANY QUESTION REGARDING HIS OBLIGATION NOT TO DIVULGE INFOR-

MATION OBTAINED BY VIRTUE OF HIS PAST-FBI EMPLOYMENT, HE SHOULD

BE INSTRUCTED TO CONTACI LEGAL COUNSEL, FBIHQ, BY COLLECT CALL.

YOUR CONVERSATIONS WITH FORMER EMPLOYEES MUST BE IN KEEPING WITH

OUR PLEDGE. IT IS BELIEVED SUCH A PROCEDURE WOULD INSURE PROPER

PROTECIION AND ALSO FACILITATE THE WORK OF THE SSC.

THE ABOVE PROCEDURE ALSO APPLIES TO CURRENT EMPLOYEES

OF YOUR OFFICE. HOWEVER, CONTACI WITH THE LEGAL COUNSEL SHOULD

BE HANDLED THROUGH THE SAC.

END

HOLD

HW 54955

DocId: 32989494

NW 65994 Docld:32176546 Page 9

Page 6

---

## Page 10

1Co..8

14:11P: NITOL. 5-30-75 POU

TO 'LL BACC

FROM CIRECTOR

(62-116595.)

PERSONAL

[TENTION

75.

• PEPUTEL WAY ?, 1975.

I CONNECTION WITH WORK OF THE SENATE AND HOUSE SELECI

COLMITTESE, ITS REPRESENTATIVES MAY COMTACT YOUP OFFICE FOR

INFORMATION.

IN ONE RECENT INSTANCE, A REPRESENIATIVE OF THE SENATE

SELECT COMMITTOS TELEPHONICALLY INQUIRED AS TO IDENTITY OF SAS

I! A PARTICULAR OFFICE DURING 1970.

IN HAILING SUCH INQUIRIES INSURE ESTABLISHING BONA FIDES

OF REPRESENTATIVE BY SHOW OF CREDENTIALS ON PERSONAL CONTACT OR,

IF TELTPHONIC CONTACT, BY TELEPHOWING BACK TO COMMITTEE.

UNLOCS INFORMATION IS OF A PUSLIC NATURE! AS IN INE INSTANCE

CITED ABOVE, OBTAIN FBIHQ CLEARANCE PRIOR TO SUPPLYING AWY

INFORMATION. FBIMA MUST BE IXPEDITIOUSLY ADVISED OF ALL

INFORMATION FURNISHED:

62-2368-27

SEARCHER

INDEXED.

SERIALIZET

LEILER

MAY 20191

FBI

ALBAN

dest

HW 54955 DocId: 32989494

NW 65994 Docld:32176546 Page 10

Page 9

---

## Page 11

NR058 WA CODE

9:08PM NITEL 5/28/75 PLD

TO ALEXANDRIA

ATLANTA

BALTIMORE

CHARLOTTE

CHICAGO

KANSAS CITY

NEWARK

OMA HA

LITTLE ROCK

PHILADELPHIA

PORTLAND

PHOENIX

TAMPA

WASHINGTON FIELD

FROM DIRECTOR (62-116395)

PERSONAL ATTENTION

SENSTUDY 75

REBUTEL MAY 2, 1975.

INQUIRIES MADE OF BUREAU BY SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE (SSC)

CONCERNING A NUMBER OF PRESENT AND FORMER FBI EMPLOYEES, IN-

QUDING THEIR CURRENT WHEREABOUIS, SUGGESTS THEY MAY BE INTER-

VIEWED BY SSC STAFF, EXACI SUBJECT MATTERS FOR INTERVIEWS UN-

KNOWN. SET OUT BELOW ARE NAMES AND LAST KNOWN ADDRESSES OF

FORMER BUREAU EMPLOYEES AND OFFICE OF ASSIGNMENT OF INCUMBENTS,

ALL OF WHOM SSC HAS INQUIRED ABOUT:

EACH OF THESE FORMER EMPLOYEES IS TO BE IMMEDIATELY CON-

Refo

62-217-6

SERA CLEA

10!20279

NW 54962 DocId: 32989500

NW 65994 Docld:32176546 Page 11

Page 10

---

## Page 12

PAGE TWO

TACTED AND ALERTED THAT HE (SHE) MIGHT BE APPROACHED BY THE

SSC STAFF, SUBJECI MATTER UNKNOWN. THEY SHOULD BE TOLD THAI

IN THE EVENT THEY ARE INTERVIEWED AND DURING THE COURSE OF SAME,

QUESTIONS ARE ASKED WHICH RELATE TO SENSITIVE BUREAU OPERATIONS

(SOURCES, METHODS, TECHNIQUES, THIRD AGENCY RULE, AND ONGOING

INVESTIGATIONS), THEY MAY REQUEST THAT AN FBI AGENT BE PRESENT.

BUREAU WILL PROVIDE AGENT ON REQUEST OF INTERVIEWEE. AS A

PRELUDE TO INTERVIEW, THE FORMER EMPLOYEE MAY, AFTER BEING

CONTACTED BY SSC SIAFF, CONTACI BUREAU'S LEGAL COUNSEL DIVISION.

BY COLLECT CALL

FOR FULL INFORMATION TO ASSIST HIM, INCLUDING

BLIGATIONS AS TO CONFIDENTIALITY OF INFORMATION ACQUIRED AS

FBI EMPLOYEE. IT IS EMPHASIZED THAT BUREAU'S OFFER OF ASSISTANCE

IS NOT INTENDED IO IMPEDE SSC WORK BUT IS DONE AS COOPERATIVE

GESTURE AND TO SAFEGUARD SENSITIVE BUREAU INFORMATION. CONTACIS

WITH THESE FORMER EMPLOYEES TO BE HANDLED PERSONALLY BY SAC OR

ASAC. IN EVENT THIS NOT FEASIBLE FOR JUST CAUSE, TO BE HANDLED

BY A SENIOR SUPERVISOR.

INCUMBENT EMPLOYEES TO BE ADVISED THAT IF CONTACTED BY SSC

STAFF FOR INTERVIEW, LEGAL COUNSEL DIVISION TO BE IMMEDIATELY

NW 54962 DocId: 32989500

NW 65994 Doclã:32176546 Page 12

Page 11

---

## Page 13

PAGE THREE

NOTIFIED THROUGH SAC.

IMMEDIATELY AFTER CONTACT, RESULIS SHOULD BE FURNISHED

BUREAU BY TELETYPE IN ABOVE CAPTION. IF A FORMER EMPLOYEE NO

LONGER IN YOUR TERRITORY OR TEMPORARILY AWWY, SET OUT LEAD TO

OTHER OFFICE IMMEDIATELY WITH COPY TO FBI HEADQUARTERS.

ALEXANDRIA: COURTLAND JO JONES, 6607 N. 29TH STREET,

ARLINGTON, VA.; ROBERT G. KUNKEL, SAC; BERNARD A. WELLS,

5311 MONIGOMERY STREET, SPRINGFIELD, VA.

ATLWNTA: ALDEN F. MILLER

BALTIMORE: ERNEST H. BELTER, 616 EDNOR ROAD, SILVER SPRING,

MARYLAND; STERLING B. DONAHOE, 2813 SPIRAL LANE, BOWIE, MARYLAND;

ROBERT HO HAYNES, 205 NORTHMOOR DRIVE, SILVER SPRING, MARYLAND

CHARLOTTE: JOSEPH A. SIZOO, 84A PINE CRESCENI, WHISPERING PINES,

NORTH CAROLINA

CHICAGO: OLGA CIESA, 16409 S• INDIANA AVENUE, CHICAGO,

ILLINOIS

KANSAS CITY: BILL D. WILLIAMS, SAC

LITILE ROCK: JOHN J. CREAMER, JR., ASAC

NEVARK: JOHN J. CONNOLLY; RITA AGNES AMBROSIO,

1604 JOHN STREET, FORT LEE, NEW JERSEY; RALPH W. BACHMAN,

NW 54962 DocId: 32989500

NW 65994 Docid:32176546 Page 13

Page 12

---

## Page 14

PAGE FOUR

G1D NORWOOD DRIVE, WESTFIELD, NEW JERSEY; KARL L. BROUSE,

5 BURRINGTON GORGE, WESTFIELD, NEW JERSEY.

OMAHA: ROBERT L. TAGG

PHILADELPHIA: JOHN B. MEADE

PORTLAND: LEO B. APP, JR. EDGAR O. INGALLY

PHOENIX: MILDRED E. RISK, 11830 113TH DRIVE, YOUNGTOWN,,

ARIZONA

TAMPA: MICHAEL J. ROZAMUS, 6509 GULF DRIVE, HOLMES BEACH,

FLORIDA

WFO: JAMES J. GAFFNEY; ELMER L. TODD

COPY TO ROME, WITH ITS EMPLOYEES NAMED, BY MAILA.

END

FBIAX VAN CLR

NW 54962 DocId: 32989500

NW 65994 Docld:32176546 Page 14

Page 13

---

## Page 15

MRO22 WA CODE

1:5 6PM NITEL 6-13-75 VLJ

TO ALL SACS

FROM DIRECTOR (63-116464)

PERSONAL ATTENTION

HOUSTUDY 75.

REBUTELS MAY 2, 20, 1975, "SENSTUDY 75."

BUFILE 62-116464 AND CODE NAME "HOUSTUDY 75" DESIGNATED

FOR ALL MATTERS RELATING IO HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE TO STUDY

COVERNMENTAL OPERATIONS WITH RESPECT TO INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

AND BUREAU'S HANDLING OF MATTERS PERTAINING THERETO. USE

THIS FILE MIMBER AND CAPTION FOR MATTERS RELATING TO HOUSE

COMMITTEE AS SEPARATE FROM SENSTUDY 75 FOR MATTERS RELATING

TO SENATE COMMITTEE.

END

62-217-91

SEARCHED.

62-219

JUN 1 3 1975

FBI - ALEXANDRIA

NN 54962 DocId: 32989500

NW 65994-Docld:32176546 Page 15

Page 23

---

## Page 16

OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR

1-75

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20535

May 28, 1975

MEMORANDUM TO ALL EMPLOYEES

RE: INTERVIEWS OF FBI EMPLOYEES

All employees are advised that Congress is conducting

an inquiry into activities of the federal Bureau of Investigation.

Congressional staff members are conducting interviews of former

and current FBI employees. This Bureau has pledged its cooperation

with the Congress.

You are reminded of the FBI Employment Agreement

(copy attached) with which you agreed to comply during your employment

in the FBI and following termination of such employment.

Also, you are reminded of Title 28, Code of Federal

Regulations, Section 16.22 (copy attached), which reads as follows:

"No employee or former employee of the Department of

Justice shall, in response to a demand of a court or other authority,

produce any material contained in the files of the Department or disclose

any information relating to material contained in the files of the Department,

or disclose any information or produce any material acquired as part of

the performance of his official duties or because of his official status

without prior approval of the appropriate Department official or the

Attorney General in accordance with Section 16.24."

Also, you are reminded of Department of Justice Order

Number 116-56, dated May 15, 1956, (copy attached) which, among

other things, requires an employee upon the completion of his testimony

to prepare a memorandum outlining his testimony.

Our cooperative efforts, of course, must be consistent

with the above cited authority.

Therefore, if you are contacted for

purpose of interview or testimony you are to request approval as

required by the Employment Agreement and await authorization before

furnishing information, testimony, or record material.

62-2368-3

Enclosures (3)

SERIALIZED

DO FILES

Clarence I. BeJUN 1 6 1975

Sirector

QB

REVOLUTION

BICENTEN

1W 549565976

DocId: 32989494

NW 65994-Đoeld:32176546-Page-16

Page 10

---

## Page 17

FD-291 (Rev. 11-1-73)

EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT

As consideration for employment in the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), United

States Department of Justice, and

as a condition for continued employment, I hereby declare

that 1 intend to be governed by and I will comply with the following provisions:

(1) That I am hereby advised and I understand that Federal law such as

Title 18, United States Code, Sections 793, 794, and 798; Order of the

President of the United States (Executive Order 11652); and regulations

issued by the Attorney General of the United States (28 Code of Federal

Regulations, Sections 16.21 through 16.26) prohibit loss, misuse, or un-

authorized disclosure or production of national security information, other

classified information and other nonclassified information in the files of

the FBI;

(2) I understand that unauthorized disclosure of information in the files

of the FBI or information I may acquire as an employee of the FBI could

result in impairment of national security, place human life in jeopardy, or

result in the denial of due process to a person or persons who are subjects

of an FBI investigation, or prevent the FBI from effectively discharging its

responsibilities. I understand the need for this secrecy agreement; there-

fore, as consideration for employment I agree that I will never divulge,

publish, or reveal either by word or conduct, or by other means disclose to

any unauthorized recipient without official written authorization by the

Director of the FBI or his delegate, any information from the investigatory

files of the FBI or any information relating to material contained in the files,

or disclose any information or produce any material acquired as a part of the

performance of my official duties or because of my official status. The burden

is on me to determine, prior to disclosure, whether information may be disclosed

and in this regard I agree to request approval of the Director of the FBI in each

such instance by presenting the full text of my proposed disclosure in writing to

the Director of the FBI at least thirty (30) days prior to disclosure. I understand

that this agreement is not intended to apply to information which has been placed

in the public domain or to prevent me from writing or speaking about the FBI but

it is intended to prevent disclosure of information where disclosure would be

contrary to law, regulation or public policy. I agree the Director of the FBI is

in a better position than I to make that determination;

(3)

I agree that all information acquired by me in connection with my official

duties with the FBI and all official material to which I have access remains

the property of the United States of America, and I will surrender upon demand

by the Director of the FBI or his delegate, or upon separation from the FBI, any

material relating to such information or property in my possession;

(4) That I understand unauthorized disclosure may be a violation of Federal

law and prosecuted as a criminal offense and in addition to this agreement may

be enforced by means of an injunction or other civil remedy.

I accept the above provisions as conditions for my employment and continued employment

in the FBI. I agree to comply with these provisions both during my employment in the FBI and

following termination of such employment.

54955

NW 65994 Docld:32176546

DO010:32989494

Page 17

(Signature)

(Type or print name)

Witnessed and accepted in behalf of the Director, FBI, on

, 19 -

_, by

Page 11

(Signature)

---

## Page 18

Office of the Attarney General

lashington, D. 0. 20530

January 18, 1973

ORDER NO. 501-73

RULES AND REGULATIONS

Title 28— JUDICIAL

ADMINISTRATION

Chapter I-Department of Justice

[Order 501-73]

PART 16-PRODUCTION OR DISCLO-

SURE OF MATERIAL OR INFORMA-

TION

Subpart B-Production or Disclosure

in Response to Subpenas or De-

mands of Courts or Other Authori-

ties

This order delegates to certain De-

partment of Justice officials the author-

ity to approve the production or dis-

closure of material or information con-

tained in Department files, or informa-

tion or material acquired by a person

while employed by

the Department. It

applies where a subpena, order or other

demand of a court or other authority,

such as an administrative agency, is is-

sued for the production or disclosure of

such information.

By virtue of the authority vested in me

by 28 U.S.C. 509, 510, and 5 U.S.C. 301,

Subpart B of Part 16 of Chapter I of

Title 28, Code of Federal Regulations, is

revised, and its provisions renumbered,

to read as follows:

Subpart B-Production

or Disclosure in Response

to Subpenas or Demands of Courts or Other

Authorities

Purpose and scope.

Production

disclosure prohibited

unless approved by appropriate De-

partment official.

16.23 Procedure in the event of a demand

for production or disclosure.

action by

the appropriate De-

partment ofclal or the Attorney

General.

.6.25 Procedure where a Department deci-

sion concerning

• demand 1s not

made prior to the time a response

to the demand is required.

6.28 Procedure 1a the event of an adverse

101.

AUTHORITY: 28 U.S.C. 509, 510 and 5 U.S.C.

iubpart B-Production or Disclosure

in Response to

Subpenas or De-

mands of Courts or Other Authori-

§ 16.21 Purpose and scope.

(a) This subpart sets forth the pro-

sedures to be followed when a subpena,

order, or other demand (hereinafter re-

ierred to as a "demand") of & court or

MW 54955 DocId: 32989494

NW 65994-Docld:32176546 Page 18

Page 12

other authority is issued for the produc-

tion or disclosure

of

(1)

any material

contained in the files of the Department,

(2) any information relating to material

contained in the files of the Department,

or

(3)

any

information

or

material

acquired by any person while such per-

son was an employee of the Department

as & part of the performance of his of-

ficial duties or because of his official

status.

(b) For purposes of this subpart, the

term "employee of the Department" in-

cludes all officers and employees of the

United States appointed by, or subject

to the supervision, jurisdiction, or control

of, the Attorney General of the United

States,

including U.S. attorneys, U.S.

marshals, and members of the staffs of

those offcials.

§ 16.22 Production or disclosure prohib-

ited unless approved by appropriate

No employee or former employee of the

Department of Justice shall, in response

to a demand of a court or other au-

thority, produce any material contained

in the files of the Department or disclose

any information relating to material con-

tained in the files of the Department, or

disclose any information or produce any

formance of his official duties or because

of his official status without prior ap-

proval of the appropriate Department of-

ficial or the Attorney General in accord-

ance with § 16.24.

Procedure in the event of a de-

mand for production or disclosure.

(a) Whenever a demand is made upon

an employee or former employee of the

Department for the production of ma-

terial or the disclosure of information

described in § 16.21(a),

he shall im-

mediately notify the U.S. attorney for

the district where the issuing authority

is located. The U.S. attorney shall im-

mediately request instructions from the

appropriate Department official, as desig-

nated in paragraph (b) of this section.

(b) The Department officials author-

ized to approve production or disclosure

under this subpart are:

(1) In the event that the case or other

matter which gave rise to the demanded

material or intormation is or, if closed,

was within the cognizance of a division

of the Department, the Assistant At-

torney General in charge of that divi-

This authority may be redelegated

to Deputy Assistant Attorneys General.

(2) In instances of demands that are

not covered by paragraph (b) (1) of this

---

## Page 19

the Federal Bu- § 16.26 Procedure in the event of an ai-

one made on an employee or former em-

If the court or other authority declines

of that Bureau for information to stay the effect of the demand in re-

or if the demand calls for the production

of material from the files of that Bu-

sponse to & request made in accordance

with § 16.25 pending receipt of instruc-

The Director of the Bureau of tions, or if the court or other authority

if the demand is one made on

rules that the demand must be com-

an employee or former employee of that plied with irrespective of instructions

or li the de- not to produce the material or disclose

mand calls for the production of ma-

terial from the files of that Bureau.

the information sought, in accordance

(3) In instances of demands that are

with & 16.24, the employee or former em-

not covered by paragraph (b) (1) or (2)

ployee upon whom the demand has been

of this section, the

Deputy Attorney

made shall respectfully decline to comply

with the demand. "United States ex rel

(c) If oral testimony is sought by the

Touhy V. Ragen," 340 U.S. 462.

demand, an afidavit, or, if that is not

feasible, & statement by the party seek-

Dated: January 11, 1973.

ing the testimony or his attorney, setting

RICHARD G. BrEINDIENST,

forth & summary of the testimony de-

Attorney General.

sired, must be furnished for submission

[FR Doc.73-1071 Filed 1-17-73;8:45 am]

by the U:S. attorney to the appropriate

Department oficial.

$ 16.24 Final action by the appropriate

Department official or the

Attorncy

(a) If the appropriate Department of-

ficial, as designated in § 16.23(b), ap-

proves & demand for the production of

material

disclosure of information,

he shall so notify the U.S. attorney and

such other persons as circumstances may

(b) If the appropriate Department

as designated

in § 16.23 (b),

decides not to approve a demand for the

of material or disclosure of

information, he shall immediately refer

the demand to the Attorney General for

decision. Upon such referral, the Attor-

ney General shall make the final decision

1a give notice thereot to the U.S. attor

nd such other persons as circun

stances may warrant.

16.25 Procedure where a Departmen

lecision concerning a demand is no

made prior to the time a response 10

the demand is required.

If response to the demand is requirer

refore the instructions from the appro.

pey deepartment leia, the the. attor-

ney or other Department attorney des-

ignated for the purpose shall appear with

the employee or former employee of the

Department upon whom the demand has

een made, and shall furnish the cour

or other authority with &

copy of the

regulations contained in this subpart and

inform the court or other authority that

the demand has been,

the case

may

be.

referred for

terred ting the

rompt consideration of the appropriat

eparument omclal and shal

respect-

fully request the court or authority to

stay the demand pending receipt of the

requested instructions.

HW 54955

DocId: 32989494

Page 13

NW 65994 Docld:32176546 Page 19

---

## Page 20

OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL

WASHINGTON, D. C.

May 15, 1956

ORDER NO. 116-56

It is the policy of the Department of Justice to extend the fullest

possible cooperation to congressional committees requesting taformation from

departmental files, interviews with department employees, testimony of depart-

ment personnel, or testimony of Federal prisoners. The following procedures

are prescribed in order to effectuate this policy on a basis which will be

mutually satisfactory to the congressional committees and to the Department.

[This order supersedes the Deputy Attorney General's Memorandum No. 5, dated

March 23, 1953, and his Memorandum No. 97, dated August 5, 1954.

It formal-

Izes the Attorney General's press release Of November 5, 1953, establishing

procedures to permit committees of the Congress and their authorized repre-

sentatives to interview and to take sworn testimony from Federal prisoners.

It supplements Order No. 3229 (Revised) dated January 13, 1953, and Order

January 13, 1953), Insofar as said orders have reference to procedures to be

followed in the Department's relations with congressional committees.

support of this order, reference should be had to the President's letter

dated May 17, 1954, addressed to the Secretary of Defense, and to the Attorney

General's Memorandum which accompanied it.l

A. REQUESTS FOR INFORMATION FROM DEPARIMENT FILES

I. Congressional committee requests for the examination of files

or other confidential information should be reduced to writing, signed by

the chairman of the committee, and addressed to the Deputy Attorney General,

who is responsible for the coordination of our liaison with Congress and

congressional committees. The request shall state the specific information

sought as well as the specific objective for which it is sought. The Deputy

Attorney General will forward the request to the appropriate division where a

reply will be prepared and returned for the Deputy Attorney General's signa-

ture and dispatch to the chairman of the comnittee.

2. If the request concerns a closed case, 1. e., one in which

there is no litigation or administrative action pending or contemplated,

the file may be made available for review in the Department, in the presence

of the official or employee having custody thereof. The following procedure

shall be followed in such cases:

a.

The reply letter will advise the committee that the

file is available for examination and set forth the

name, telephone extension number, and room number of

the person who will have custody of the file to be

reviewed;

WW 54955

DocId: 32989494

NW 65994 Docla:32176546 Page 20*

Page 14

---

## Page 21

- 2 .

D. Before maling the file avallable to the committee

representative all reports and memoranda from the FBI

as well as lavestigative reports from any other agency,

will be removed from the file and not be made available

fOr

examination; provided however that if the committee

representative states that it is essential that information

from the FBI reports and memoranda be made available,

he will be advised that the request will be considered

by the Department. Thereafter a summary of the contents

of the FBI reports and memoranda involved vill be

prepared which will not disclose investigative tech-

niques, the identity of confidential informants, or

other matters which might jeopardize the investigative

operations of the isl. this summary will be forwarded

by the division to the FBI with a request for advice as

to whether the fBI has any objection to examination of

such summary by the cormittee representative.

to sy tho

The file

will not be physically relinquished from the custody of

the Department.

If the committee representative desires

to examine investigative reports from other government

agencies, contained in the files of the Department, he

will be advised to direct his request to the agency whose

reports are concerned.

3. Il the request concerns an open case, 1. e., one which liti-

sation or administrative action 1s pending or contemplated, the file may

not be made available for examination by the committee's representative.

The following procedure shall be followed:

a. The reply letter should advise the cormittee that

Its request concerns a case in which litigation or

administrative action is pending or contemplated, and

state that the file cannot be made available until the

case 18 completed; and

b. Should briefly set forth the status of the case in

as much detail as is practicable and prudent without

jeopardizing the pending contemplated litigation or

administrative action.

B. REQUESTS FOR INTERVIEWS WITH DEPARIMENIAL PERSONNEL

1. Requests for interviews with departmental personnel regarding

any official matters within the Department should be reduced to writing,

signed by the chairman of the committee, and addressed to the Deputy Attorney

General.

When the approval of the Deputy Attorney General is given, the

employee is expected to discuss such matters freely and cooperatively with

the representative, subject to the limitations prescribed in A respecting

open cases and data in investigative reports;

DOC10: 32989494 Page 15

NW 65994 Docld:32176546

---

## Page 22

-3 =

2. Upon the completion of the interview with the committee repre-

sentative the employee will prepare a summary of it for the file, with a

copy routed to his division head and a copy routed to the Deputy Attorney

General.

C.

EMPLOYEES TESTIFYING BEFORE CONGRESSIONAL, COMMITTEES

1. ¡hen an employee is requested to testify before à congressional

committee regarding official matters within the Department the Deputy Attorney

General shall be promptly informed.

Then the Deputy Attorney General's approv-

al 1s given the employee is expected to testify freely subject to limitations

I, in A respecting open cases and data in investigative reports;

2. An employee subpoenaed to testify before a congressional committee

on official matters within the Department shall promptly notify the Deputy

Attorney General.

In general he shall be guided in testifying by Order 3229

(Revised) and the President's letter of May 17, 1954, cited at the beginning

of this Order.

3. Upon the completion of his testimony the employee will prepare

a memorandum outlining his testimony with a copy routed to his division head

and a copy routed to the Deputy Attorney General.

D. REQUESTS OF CONGRESSIONAL COMMLTTELS FOR THE TESTIMONY OF FEDERAL PRISONERS

Because of the custodial hazards involved and the extent to which

their public testimony may alfect the discipline and vell-being of the institu-

tion, it is the policy of the Department not to deliver Federal prisoners out-

side the penal institution In which they are incarcerated for the purpose of

being intervieved or examined under oath by congressional committees. However,

when it appears that no pending investigation or legal proceeding will be

adversely affected thereby and that the public interest will not be otherwise

adversely affected, Federal prisoners may be interviewed or examined under oath

by congressional committees in the institution in which they are incarcerated

under the following procedures, and with the specific advance approval of the

Deputy Attorney General.

I. Arrangements for interviewing and taking of sworn testimony

from a federal prisoner by a committee of the Congress or the authorized

representatives of such & committee shall be made in the form of a written

request by the chairman of the committee to the Deputy Attorney General.

2. Such written request shall be made at least ten (10) days

prior to the requested date for the intervier and the taking of testimony

and shall be accompanied by written evidence that authorization for the

interview or the taking of sworn testimony was approved by vote of the com-

mittee. Such request shall contain a statement of the purpose and the sub-

jects

upon which the prisoner will be interrogated as well as the names of

all persons other than the representatives of the Department of Justice who

will be present.

3. A member of the interested committee of the Congress shall be

present during the entire time of the interrogation.

NW 54955

DocId: 32989494 Page 16

NW 65994- Docld:32176546 Page 22

---

## Page 23

= 4 .

4. The warden of the penal institution in which the Federal

prisoner, is incarcerated shall, at least forty-eight (48) hours prior to the

time at which the interview takes place, advise the Federal prisoner concerned

of the proposed interview or taking of sworn testimony; and shall further

advise that he 1s under the sáme, but no greater obligation to anever than any

other witness who is not a prisoner.

5. The warden of the penal institution shall have complete

authority in conformity with the requirements of security and the mainte-

nance of discipline to limit the number of persons who will be present at

the interview and taking of testimony.

6. The warden or his authorized representative shall be present

at the interview and at the taking of testimony and the Department of Justice

shall have the right to have one of its representatives present throughout

7. The committee shall arrange to have & stenographic transcript

made of the entire proceedings at committee expense and shall furnish a copy

of the transcript to the Department of Justice.

E. OBSERVERS IN ATTENDANCE AT COMMITTEE HEARINGS

In order that the Department may be kept currently advised in

matters tithin its responsibility, and in order that the Deputy Attorney

General may properly coordinate the Department's liaison with Congress and

its committees, each division that has an observer in attendance at a

congrssional hearing, will have the observer prepare a written summary of

the proceeding which should be sent to the division head and a copy routed

to the Deputy Attorney General.

/s/ Herbert Brownell, Jr.

Attorney General

VW 65994 Docid: 32176546: Page 23

Page 2.

Page 17

---

## Page 24

OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR

PERSONAL ATTENTIO

MEMORANDUM 35-75

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20535

August 12, 1975

MEMORANDUM TO ALL SPECIAL AGENTS IN CHARGE:

(A) INTERVIEWS OF FBI EMPLOYEES BY CONGRESSIONAL STAFF

MEMBERS -- In accordance with a recently adopted suggestion, you

are to insure that all new employees who enter on duty in your field

office are fully apprised of the contents of the Memorandum to All

should be done at the time they execute the FBI Employment Agreement,

FD-291, regarding the unauthorized disclosure of information.

This practice can, of course, be discontinued upon the

completion of the inquiry that Congress has instituted.

43-7854-33

SEARCHED -

SEATANTED CLINE EL

NW 54959 DocId: 32989498

NW 65994 Docld:32176546 Page 24

Page 154

---

## Page 25

NRE33 MA COPT

6:16?M 9/4/75 NITEL AJ"!

TO ALL SACS

FROM DIRECTOR

(62-116395)

SINSTUDY 75

REBUTEL MAY 2, 1975.

PURPOSES OF INSTANI TELETYPE ARE TO CID REITERATE THAT

FBI HAS PLEDOED FULL COOPTRATIO! MITH THE STATE SELECT

COMMITTET (SSC) AND MISHES TO ASSIST AND FACILITATE ANY

INVISTIGATIONS UNDERTAKEN BY THE SSC WITH RESPECT TO THE FRI;

AND (?) SET FORTH NEN PROCEDURE RELATING TO SSC STAFF

INTERVIES OF CURRTNT AND FOPMER FBI EMPLOYEES.

FOP INFORMATION OF THOSE OFFICES WHICH HAVE NOT PREVIOUSLY

• HAD CURRENT OR FOPMER EMPLOYEES IN ITS TERPITOY INTERVIENED

DY THE SSC, THE BUREAU FREQUENTLY LEARNS FROM THE ESC OR

OTHTRIST THAT FORMER EMPLOYTES ARE REING CONSIDERED FOR

INTERVIEW LY THY SSC STAFF. INSTRUCTIONS ARE ISSUTE FOR THE

FIELE OFFICE TO CONTACT THE FORMER EMPLOYTE TO ALERT HIM AS TO

POSSIBLE INTERVITY, REMIND HIM DE HIS CONFINENTIALITY AGREEMENT

WITH THE BUREAU AND SUGGEST THAI IF HE IS CONTACTEN FOR

ASAC

62-2368-1

GILBERY

ICC

dest.

SEARCHEDAS.

•IRDENED:

SERIALIZED BBILD B3

KEEFE

LONERGAN

Lost)

SEP 4 1975

FBI-ALBANY

NW 54955

DocId: 32989491

Page 34

NW 65994 Docld:32176546 Page 25

---

## Page 26

PAGE THO

INTEPVIEW, HE MAY CONTACT THE LEGAL COUNSEL DIVISION BY

COLLICI CALL FOR FURTHER INFORMATION. IN THE USUAL CASE,

AS CIRCUMSTANCES UNFOLD, THE FORMER EMPLOYEE IS TOLI(1)

THAI HE HAS A RIGHT TO LEGAL COUNSEL, PUT THAT THE BURFAU

CANNOT PROVICE SAMES (2) THAT THE BUREAU HAS VAIVED THE

CONFIDENTIALITY AGREEMENT FOR THE INTERVIEW VITHIN SPECIFIED

PARAMETERS; AND (3) THAT THERE ARE FOUR PRIVILEGED AREAS I!!

WHICH HE IS NOT REQUIRED TO ANSWER QUESTION. THESE AREAS

ARO RELATING TO INFORMATION WHICH MAY CAS IDENTIFY BUREAU

SOURCES; (B) REVEAL SENSITIVE METHODS/ TECHNIQUES; (C) REVEAL

IDENTITITS OF THIRD AGENCIES, INCLUDING FOREIGN

1, INTELLIGENCT

AGENCIES, OP INFORMAIION FROM SUCH AGENCIES; AND (D) ADVERSELY

AFFECI ONGOING BURFAU INVESTIGATIONS.

HERETOFORE, BUREAU HAS OFFERED, INTERVITWLES CONSULTATION

PRIVILEGES WHEREBY A BUREAU SUPERVISOR WOULD RE AVAILAPLE

NEARBY, ALTHOUGH NOI ACTUALLY AI INTERVIEV, SO INTERVITWEE

MIGHI CONSULT WITH HIM SHOULM QUESTIONS ARISE AS TO PARAMETERS

OF INTERVIEN OR PRIVILEGED AREAS. THE CONSULIAMI DID NOI ACT

AS A LIGAL ADVISOR.

EFRECIIVE IMMEDIATELY, BUREAU WILL NO LONGER PROVIDE

HW 54955

DocId:32989494

NW 65994 Docld:32176546 Page 26

Page

35

---

## Page 27

PAGE THREE

ON-THE-SCENE PERSONNEL FOR COMSULTATION PURPOSES TO ASSIST

HITHER CURRENT OF FORMER EMPLOYSES. PROSPECIIVE INTERVITIEES

SHOULD BE TOLD THAI, IF THEY DESIRE ASSISTANCE OF THIS NATURE

DURING AN INTERVIEW, THEY MAY CONTACT EITHER PERSONALLY (IF

INTERVIEL IS IN MASHINGION, D. C.) OR 3Y COLLECI CALL, THE

ASSISTANI DIRECIOR OF THE INTELLIGENCE DIVISION, MR. "'. R.

W'ANNALL, OR, IN HIS ABSENCE, SECTION CHIEF I O. CREGAR.

THIS CHANGE IN PROCEDURE SHOULD NOT BE CONSTRUEN AS

• LESSENING THE ASSISTANCE WE ARE FURNISHING TO CURRENT AND

FORMER EMPLOYEES.

FOR YOUR ADDITIONAL INFORMATION, I AM WORKING WITH THE

DEPARIMENT IN EXPLORING AVENUES TO ARRANGE LEGAL REPRESENTATION,

WHEN NECESSARY, FOR CURRENT AND FORMER EMPLOYDES WITHOUT

EXPENSE TO THEM. YOU WILL BE KEPT ADVISED OF DEVELOPMENTS

IN THIS REGARD.

END

LVV FBI ALBANY

CLR

54955

DocId: 32989494

NW 65994 Docld:32176546 Page 27

Page 36

---

## Page 28

*17CAS WA PLAIN

732PMMITEL 18/9/ 75 GHS

TO ALL SANS

FROM DIRECTOP.

INTERUTUS OF FBI EMPLOYEES BY CONGRESSIONAL COMMITIEES

TY MEMORANDUM TO ALL EMPLOYEES DATED MAY 25, 1975,

CAPTIONED "INTERVIRUS OF FBI EMPLOYEES," ALL EMPLOYEES WERE

ADVISED OF INE NECESSITY OF SECURING FBI HEADCUARIERS APPROVAL

PRIOR TO SUBMITTING TO INTERVIEWS BY REPRESENTATIVES OF CON-

GRESSIONAL COMMITTEES. THE NECESSITY OF SECURING THIS AP-

PROVAL IC PROMPTED BY, THE EMPLOYMENI AGREEMENT ALL EMPLOYEES

HAVE SIGNED.

YOU WERE ADVISED THAT CONGRESSIONAL STAFF MEMBERS

WERE CONDUCIING INTERVIEUS OF FORMER AND/OR CURRENT EMPLOYDES

AND THAT THIS SUPEAL HAD PLEDGED ITS COOPERATION WITH DON-

GRESS. OUR COOPERATIVE EFFORIS, OF COURSE, MUST BE CONSISIENT

WITH BUREAU PROCEDURES.

RECENTLY, WE HAVE HAD ATTEMPTS BY CONGRESSIONAL

CONMITTED STAFF MEMBERS TO INTORVIEW CURRENT EMPLOYEES WITHOUT

PRIOR CONTACT WITH FEI HEADQUARTERS!

YOU ARE AGAIN REMINDED

62-2348-10

SEARCHED.

SERIALIZED.

_INDEXED

_FILED

OCT g - 1975

FBI-ALBANYCE

NY 54955

DOCId: 32989494

NW 65994 Docld:32176546 Page 28

Page 37

---

## Page 29

PAGE TWO

IHAT IF A REPRESENTATIVE OF A CONGPESSIONAL COMMITTEE SHOULD

CO:TACT A BUREAU EMPLOYES, THAT EMPLOYIE SHOULD DECLINE IO

RESPOND TO QUESTIONS POSED TO HIM AND

ADVISE THE CONGRES-

SIONAL STAFF MEMBER OF THE NECESSITY OF RECEIVING FBI

HEADQUARTERS APPROVAL BEFORE ROSPONDING TO QUESTIONS

END

• LVV FBI ALBANY

ẠCK FOR IHPEE

17W 54955

DocId: 32989494

NW 65994 Docld:32176546 Page 29

Page

38

---

## Page 30

Routing

Slip

0-7 (Rev. 12-17-73)

TO: SAC:

Albany

Albuquerque

¡exandria

Anchorage

Allanta

Baltimore

Bimingham

Boston

Buffalo

Butte

Charlotte

Chicago

Cincinnati

Cleveland

Columbia

Dallas

Denver

Detroit

El Paso

.Honolulu

• (Copies to Öffi

Houston

Indianapolis

Jack son

Jacksonville

Kansas City

Knoxvilie

Las Vegas

Little Rock

Los Angeles

Louisville

Nemphis

Miami

Milwaukee

Minneapolis

Mobile

Newark

New Haven

New Orcans

New York City

Norfolk

Checked)

Oklahoma City

Omaha

Philadelphia

Phoenix

Pittsburgh

Portland

Richmond

Sacramento

St. Louis

Salt Lake City

San Antonio

San Diego

San Francisco

San Juan

Savannah

Seattle

Springfield

Tampa

Washington Field

Quantico

RE: SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE

ON INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

Date

TO LEGAT:

Beirut

| Bern

Bonn

Brasilia

Buenos Aires

Caracas

Hong Kong

London

Madrid

Manila

Mexico City

Ottawa

Paris

Rome

Singapore

Tel Aviv

Tokyo

11/21/75

Retention

For appropriate

• For infonnation aJ optional u

action

→ Surep, by

- The enclosed is for vour infornation. If used in a future report

conceal all

ources, ' paraphrase contents

C. Enclosed are corrected pages from report of SA

dated

Remarks:

Enclosed for your information is a copy of

an article by Mr. William Safire entitled "Mr.

Church's Cover-Up" that appeared

in the

November 20, 2975, issue Of "The Ney Xork Times."

SEARCHED.

SERIALIZED

_INDEXER-

CO FILED

NOV 24 1975

FBI-ALBANY

BIC.

(1

Bufile

Cirfile.

HW 54955 DocId:32989494

NW 65994 Docld:32176546 Page 30

62.-2368-11B

Page

---

## Page 31

Mr.

Church's

Cover-Up

The committee is not asking embar-

By William Safire

rassing questions even

when

answers

are

readily

available. A couple

of

WASHINGON, Nov. 19-On Oct. 10,

1963, the then-Attorney General of the

United States put his personal signa-

ture on a document that launched and

legitimatized one of the most horren-

dous abuses of Federal police power in

this century.

In Senator Frank Church's subcom-

mittee hearing

room this week,

authorized

the

wiretapping and

subse-

quent unauthorized bugging and at-

tempted blackmailing of Martin Luther

King Jr. is being gingerly examined,

with the "investigation" conducted in

misuch a way as

not to induly em-

barrass officials of the

Kennedy or

Johnson Administrations.

weeks ago,

at an open hearing, an

F.B.l. man inadvertently started to.

blurt out an episode about newsmen

who were

iveritapping in

1962 with

the apparent knowieage of Attorney

General Kennedy. The too-willing wit!

ness was promptly shooshed

into sil

lence,

and

told that such information

would be developed only in executive

session. Nobody raised an eyebrow.

That pattern of containment by the

Church commiltee is vividly shown by

the handling of the buggings at the

1964 Republican and Democratic con-

ESSAY

focused on the F.B.I. Yesterday, when

the committee counsel first set forth

the result of shuffling through press

clips, it scemed as if no Justice De-j

pariment had existed in 1962; today,

an F.B.I. witness pointed out that it

was Robert Kennedy who authorized

the wiretap of Dr. King, and that "the

President of the United States and the

Attorney Gereral specifically discussed

their concern of Communist influence

with Dr. King."

But the Church committee showed

no zest for getting further to the Ken-

nedy root of this precedent to Water-

gate eavesdropping. lf Senator Church

were willing to let the chips fall where

they may, he would call some knowl-

edgeable witnesses into the glare of

the camera lights and ask them some

questions that have gone unasked for

ventions which wele ordered by Lyn-

don Johnson. Such invasions of politi-.

cal headquarters were worse than the

crime committed at Watergate, since

they involved, the use of the 'F.B.I.,

but the Church investigators seem to

be determined not to probe too deeply.

If F.B.I. documents say that reporis

were made to specific Johnson aides,

why are those men not given the

same opportunity to publicly tell their

story so avidly given the next Presi-

dent's men? If Lyndon Johnson com-

mitted this impeachable high crime of

opponents, who can be brought for-

ward to tell us all about it?

But that would cause embarrass-

Church wants

sional

to embarrass profes-

employees

of

investigatory

agencies only. A new sense of Con-

For example, he could call Nicholas

gressional decorum exists,

far from

Katzenbach, Attorney General Ken-

the sense of outrage expressed in the

nedy's depuly and successor, and ask

Senate

Watergate

committee's hear-

what he knows of the Kennedy de-

ing room. When it is revealed that the

cision to wiretap Dr. King. Who at

management of NBC News gave press

Justice concurred in the recommenda-

credentials to L.B.J.'s spies at the 1964

tion? How does the F.B.I. know they

President was consulled or informed?

convent no very demands so ine?

ly-and nobody demands to

Aftor Mr. Katzenbach assumed of-

which network exccutive made what'

decision under what pressure.

I have

been haranguing patient

the F.B.I. was leaking scurrilous in-

readers for yeais about the

double

formation about. Dr. King. Why did he

standard applied to Democratic and

wait for four months, and for & thou-

Republican politicai crimes,

and

lad

sand telephonic interceptions, to dis-

hoped the day would come when the

continue the eificially appruced tap?

hardbal! precedents

set by the Ker-

nedy and Johnson inen would be laid

wouid crode Senator Church's politic:i

before the public in samning dctail.

bas?, That is ihy we an not see for

Obviously, Demoisat Frank Church

mer Assistant F.B.I. direcior Carlivi

it. His, jo'xi-

saling indignation di

personal contace with too F.S.1. in the

dine dier a nightele resense.

witness chair.

What did

president

bility for the crimes commitred against

johnson know about the chaiscier-

Da. ding and ciners is eridently going

assissination piot and when did he

to he alloro to c00l.

now

it? What conversations

took.

Phy. inid think that after all the

mare iceween Mr. Icloach aeil Progi-

nation as been through ae: tie pase

dant dohrson on the lapoing or Ds.

ferr years or political leaders would

ting, do about the use cd the Fal. In

have learned that the can tr that

any ollier intriviana into lhe lives of

aries to down is the antid provi

HW 54955 DocId: 32989494

Page 40

NW 65994-Docld:32176546 Page 31

JASAS,

3

62-2368-1178

100 288

5=

SEARCHED

- INDEXER

SERIALIZED OD FILED.

NOV 2 4 1975

FBI-ALBANY

THE NEW YORK TIMES

THURSDAY, MOVEMEAR 20ch, 1975

PAGE C-43.

---

