# DOCID-32419805

## Page 1

104-10189-10066

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note]. Case#:NW

65997 Date: 10-29.2021

SECRET

RYBAT

19 JUL 1967

MEMCRANDUM

SUBJECT: Ramparts: John Garrule UNDERHILL Sr..

Samuel Cieorge CUMMINGS, and..

INTERARMCO

1. Ramparte of June 1967, Vol. 3, No. 12, pp. 38-29, containa

the following passagus about ¡ ubjacts:

"Tho day after tha asenesinallon, Gary Underbill left

lashingras la a burry. lito la lbo crosing ho abouod up

at the home of filands in Now Jorsey. Ho was very agitatod.

à small clique elehin the uli was responsibla for tha as-

sassination, he cantided, and he was afraid for his lllu and

probably would bara so loavo the cousiry. Less than six

manthe later Underbill was found shas to deats in his

Washlagton apartaeni. T'he coranor rulod li sulcida.

"J. Garrett Undorbill bai boen an lotalligenco agons

during world War Il and was a recognized authorisy oa lim!-

ted waríaro and amall arra. À researcher and aritar on

militasy affalro, ho vas an a firat-none basis wish many of

tho top brass in the Pentagon. He was also on tailinate serma

with a sumbor of bigb-ranking Cli officiala--be mao ona of .

los ngoncy's "a peoplo' uho perform apocial assigamento.

18 ano lima bo. had boon à friend of Samual camiiaga of

InterarIco, tho arma broker thit numbers amang its cua-

tomera the Cli and, Ironically, Klein's Sporting Goods of

Chicago, from whosco Lsig/ tho mall-order carcano alleg-

adly is purchased by Cowald.

SECRET

RYBAT

63ià

Exiles: are sitar:

• NW 65987 Docld:32419805 Page 1

---

## Page 2

104-10189-10066

SECRET

RYBAT

•The Irlendo whom Urdorhill visited say ho waa sobor

but badly shook. They bay ho attribuled the Konnedy

murior 1o a ClA clique which was carrylag on à lucralivo

racker in gun-running, narcotico and othor contraband.:

and manspulating political intrigue lo serve lta oun endo.

Kennedy supposcaly got wind that 'something sas guing on

and wao killed before he could "blow the whistle on 1t'.

ilthough the frionds had alwaya known Underbill to be

períecily railosal and objective, they az lirst ilda't take

his account perlowoly, 'I think the main reason was,'

explaina tho huaband, "tbat wo couldn"e bellevo that tho

ClA could contata. a corript olemioni ovory bit as ruib-

losa-and more efficieni-•no tho malla.

.. "'The verdiet of sulcide in Underbill'o death la by no

means convinciag. His body was lound by a writing

collaboratos, Asher Brynea uí tha Now Repablle. Ho

had buon shot behind the left dar, and an automatic platol

was under his left aido. Odd, enya Brynes, bocauso

Underhill was righe-handod. Brynos chiuke the platol

was fitted wilh a siloncer, and occupante of the apartment

bulldling could not racall hearing a shot. Underhill abul-

ously had been dead sevoral days.

"Garry Underbill'a chilling story la haraly implaualblo.

In a apy apparatus the Cla la honcycombod with self-

contalaod cliques operating without any roal central control...."

7. 1 check of Agoacy recorda has yielded the following informaston

about Joha Garrett UNDSRHILL JE.

1. DP: ? ^B8u01 1915, Brooklyn.

b. Attended high school in Brooklyn and man graduared

from Harvard in 1937.

c.

Dled 8 May 1968.

SECRET

RYBAT

NW 65987 Docld:32419805 Page 2

---

## Page 3

104-10189-10066

SECRET

do liao a picrorlal journalles los lille, 1938-1942.

e. Ordorod lo activo duy with Mas, dashington, do

a socond lloutenans, on 8 July 1913. Sorred with MIS

10r 2-1/2 yeara, working ou tachnical and photograpble

boadings for AllS publications, evaluatión of Intolligonco,

and enemy uniformao, insignia, weapons, olc. en

9 October 1915 rocoived a jas Dopariment stall citation

lor superlor work da inllitary intelliganco, Loit acilva

city in May 1946.

•1. GlA momorana if ¡'abrunry and Cotobor 1948.

show that there vas laterast by the New York offica of

CO, Contacta Divlolon, In asing Sabjoct aa a costact for

foreten intolliganco. Namu checks mero conductad with

vartos military mambors of the intolligance community,

,but theso yloldod Inaulficiont informarion, and O0 5a0

advieed that contaci uhould bo devoloped with caurion, on

a limizad baals, and laas Subjoct was not to recolvo l-

formation classillod bighor thun confidential.

B. Un 12 March 1957 natlonal agoncy chocky woro

agala requestad on Subjoce because of Intorost dy tho

Office of Sacurity.

h. A UP articlo of uninown dalo citas an article uritten

by UNDERHILi lor Lsquiro.. The articlo doscribed the U.S.

Army as shocklagly woak. Tho Ut plece atated that

UNDERIULL serred Is milliary Intolligonce in sorld War

1l and KoraR. UNDÜAHLLu. sold that he had served ao a con-

cultant (probably in 1955/10 an irmy coordlaating group.

lo A report of 6 August 1954 from tho Office of Sacurley,

Department of State, concerns contacto between UNDS!HILL

ani one Herman AXELSINK, Tão was trying to sall photo -

grapisa o1 soviot military subjecie. UNDERHIlLi, roported

the se contacto lo tho j'13l and lo ClA. la November 1949

SECRET

ПУВАТ

NW 65987 Docld:32419805 Page 3

---

## Page 4

104-10189-10066

SECRET

RYBAT

UNDERHILL volod "/ashtagion to call the attention of CIA to

cortain AÄELBANK piclures and was adrieed this Colliore

mlebe be Intereoled la somo of them for an article on Rusala.

UNDERFULL doCHoded ANiLBINK with "ilicky" Haskino of

3. Colba baslo of the loregolng an Inquiry was mado of direc

tor, Domoodle Contact jorvico; whose offica provided the attached

reply.

i chock of Agency racorda bas yielded tho following laformation

about Samuil Goorgo CUMMINGS, 161-178343.

a. DPCB 4 FobruaTy 1927 Fbiladolphla.

b. Prosidont and solo owner of INTERARMCO,

"probably tha largest international arma doalex la tho

world". (D1R-01282, 16 septomber 1960.1

c. ¡'an a stall employea of CJA from Decembor 1950

to November 1953. HVGW-215ó, 5 Auguot 1957, as wall

as alber pelorencee, list him-aa a formor stall employea

who bao no prisons ClA affillationa but who continuos to

act ao an FBI source.

d, Either intolligesco contacto: Slate, Dis, and the

lest German BND.

• THO INIZRARMCO LIm bag DeOD aBOd bY CIA!

cquire and diapons ol weapons, ammunition, sic. CL

and so control of the flrm and no proprletary inarest in

18.

1. in entry of 1 June 1907 stales that Subject has bosa

corminated without projacico.

-... ....

SECRET

RYBAT

NW 65987 Docld:32419805 Page 4

---

## Page 5

104-10189-10066

JECRET

RYBAT

3. igency recordo contain sumerous roforences ia INTERARMCO.

6. It la noted that Subjecta have not appeared to dals in any publie

of classidad raporta of sho Garrison invastigation in Now Orleans.

CECRET

RYBAT

NW 65987 Docld:32419805 Page 5

---

