# DOCID-32417328

## Page 1

104-10170-10133

Released under the John F. Kennedy

assassination Records Collection Act of

992(44 USC 2107 Note]. Case#:Nw

55997 Date: 10-28-2021

BEANET

14 AUG 1967

NEXCRANDUSL

SUBJECT

3 Garrison Lavestigation of

Duncid No (os 1.) BORTON

L. Or 6 August 1067 to sero Infose of tut the Vancouver

(Ora. da) Sset tas mimalas or cous could ru on incerviow with onc

Donsul (is T.) HORTCH, 3S yooro old, who had made tho

following clothis.

driveron 5150, 300 to Doxlu 8628L

or transfer

to Cuss. (Corrent; David, Nonsto, now desd,

nes a cilot livies la dies oslauso Leftlet torney

Issica C. Garrison has claimed tsat Planto ana

ona of a sicall grous of condotento a pto necstora

minded to posacoination of resticat Seasedy.

lu Pricke Teorough checke dare chown that chore

rus no asscelation between DIRMla and tile Micacy.)

D. That la 1952 Clay 34AD cave NORTCHen

attacue caso conteiniar 530, 30) whica beaten de-

Arcera to use tiroy Deo la Monterror, Mosaco.

(Concoate Those Is no evideace that Lee Hazyer

Gerald ois ta berico da 1902.

Tiero ls ao evicence,

cacent to counsested lord ola criminal and unia

only persea indiciad by Cancisco to dato on da chargo

ce conspiring to kill erecticat Acaredgo)

SECHET

NW 65987 Docld:32417328 Page 1

---

## Page 2

104-10170-10133

c. Tet liontos receirod so a monta aay

frora CLi end tire ho algo roesired tontica of os, doa

sar ise delloa decerised la sis-garageral do chave, and

8i, 500 sor that deucried in eud-garagrana be:

TORCITON rogested ta sa unidentlied all

compray olllcinl la Gilgary, alieris, Ginadia

•Co Tha: 2ORTON lost Mo CEl jaù la liciender

1955 dad was advicea do cotile cara lu Calgaryi

2.. Eleita are boder voy la parala a copy of lua cullica civis

Vanciaro= Ean ontalang the artele bargin deceriaede Forever,

maration to try lo goi a

copy for us, cilier independesily or taruga lindacu.

So All pertinent agency records luva been clocked. Thoro ls

no recarú da Denala Do LoRrait or Inguid I. violinos.

Teore is

¡so no record ois ionala MellCa sio metchoo duj al tho furcoolg

laiorarationa

me C/9/2C/C is also requeried to colala ascilablo furarasa-

¡los from li:dion rogarding dontüils geraral charadler nao regulailos

cimaçon in? Cli sul dão Ell aro interrariar is ole inverti calloa da cicl

crania, asaciaios do lalada dimid bojarasjo li la sogusstadtin no

Itio sorgestua trat

aligatoas lis Chi craglojed Mar

5. Il Is rcasasied ibai a ciucio de tas ia lua files os Viil/CCO49

see ticäles tanjoet acars tercio.

i's=tt

R0/0I/:4

NW 65987 Docld:32417328 Page 2

---

