# DOCID-32385084

## Page 1

104-10229-10074

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection act of

1992(44 USC 2107 Note). Cace#:NW

50940 Date: 10-29-2021

diners.

10 April 1261

LORISLINH FOR THE RECORD

SUITET: Mootlago vith Miro Carlona and Carr on 5 and 6 April 1261

On lodnesday, 5 April 1901, Miro Cardona acccupasied by Mr. CarT

cras si birabington for a mosting With Masara. Derlo, Bonaal, schlosinzor and

Bailes. Cars and Drollor vora briafad by Miro Cardona on th1s reotlaz in

Le Isco astardos ce that day la tha shorehan Hotol aulto.

$.

*iro, who camo to the Druller/ Carr rootine, accompaniod by Carlos

Plal, sas such dopressed: Ho Bald that Borlo mad his friando secred to

prunita a "TIdallano on Flio)" line, thas are all the vay to tha lafr

Nira statod, adding that during the conversation lay'o nano vas scotlunod

alonas disso in highly laudatory torao. "I hnow I vould have a eross to

boar stan I asked Ray to join the council," Miro Bald, "nou I us corrincod

that sale to a very, very hoary eross in dood." then Droller remaried that

It tight bo tino not to road too much into the statemants made by lis. Barlo,

and east artor aul the posturos of a futura cuban averuent voula bo a

congiataly Cuban affalr, Miro looked at Drollar vith a tulnilo in bia ayo dod

andi, "Do not vorty, cace I havo my foot flimly en the sroudd 1 incu pretisaly

bant sadde to be done, up until then I male a 180 derred turn and I ex

sure dait than thay aro.

Hiro then advlaed Carr and Drollar that to.

Borla kod sussestel that he, Miro, get toothor with Mr. John Plant--

Politinal Schantiat at Harvard--for the purposs of having the latter asslot

Ain in craftino the proclmation of the Hevolutionary Cuuncil. Acccruisa

to Miro sa vas rathor luia varm to the proposal and said ha vould see 18

he social the chap's sarrices.

3. Nuro adrisod that another complately private sestine bad best

achatulal for hila by Mr. Berlo on the astornoon of 6 April.

8. In the ovoning houre of & April Carr and Droller Dot again v1th

siro sor the purpose of:

Obtalning Hiro's roport on the aforementioned seating vita

i. Berlo,

Erioling firo da spedific publicity lines Miro vas to take

NW 65990 Docld:32385084 Page 1

---

## Page 2

104-10229-10074

5. H1ro adriood that senin tir. Borlo had inion tha "Rey Lisa" but that

1n vion of hio, Hird's, plyability the motiny had boen vory trigodly. Accord-

IDE tO Miro, MI. Earlo hed agrin atrosaod tio fact that 1t voull to hiehly

donirablo for the Cuira Revolution to stait inaldo due viuntry ressor than by

on invasion.

In this conseution Miro aal.a he roquested an anover from Berla

as to thother cuban troopo would

be siperted by the U.s. Hir. derlo vastod

to Bico stor tale question but hiro pals ho vau prosolas Mi. Borla abilay bla

ajain and ajain, "Aro vo going to bo alupe or not?" At that tira dorlo lo

allogodly to have toll Miro,

"I esto you my vord of honor, you will aut bo alone."

After having reintel the rbovo to brullor and cars, dito lookod at Drollor and

sa1d,

"I Don bayo Barlo's word of budor, but I nodi Bonder's assurasces so

vell."

Arter sung nemate of silonco, I snid the fallouing: Mary things

lould dopend on spocille situntions at asy ulvon tino; clonrly the question vas

not do much one uf rocurances of coultzant of Marinas but ano c8 4r/181ni

propor tochniques which vaild aspure trs anaired affoita.

Mire es a Cuban

patriot hal to think p.lmarily of Cuba, but I matod to rasure hit that the

-U:8. Interests and sinion in Cuba mü ina liemiaphoro varo ao fersat us oven

fronter tann choco of Viro, Cloarty, I said, the U.S, dons not lateri to

cocone tha luror in this atructio.

viro aallad thaahlug no fur sy t1ovo.

6. Miro thon continuod to rolate that duriny bio mating vitia Zerlo do

and asked assurances for thres types of linonaial supporti

a. A suall credit far Immediata Povolutionary Council use.

Do A bloror credit to bo used luring tha actual Atricele 100110

Cuba for the purchase of vadicino, icai and other nocessary seconatruction

полоч, nod

c. A blE "Elobal crodit' which 11 Vienod by MIrO sO sa eDGeStial

measure for putting Cuba buck on 140 leat econcedenlly afuer ise ever-

thron of Castro.

According to Mirs, lF. Borle made no comaltzsat excapt

to say that icone mattors vare under considoration.

Hiro then infunted us that Borle and surssted that has and the Councll

So to lan fork to taka such stops so sacersary to five n robuttal to loul Roas

10 April spooch befuro the Unitod Nations. In connection uith tha lest point,

CasT and irallar briofed MinO As jOlluMs:

B. It la dosired that Miro nest the proca prior nad aftor joul soa'a

entialpatai apooch beforo the United Mations tenoral Abacmbly, Miro saculd

lot lan Joans nososiates arranta the testilial dotallo for these pross con-

NW 65990 Docld:32385084 Page 2

---

## Page 3

104-10229-10074

•3 .

Tha prosa cuntarauce prior to loul Ros'a apooch should tara placo

an Deburiay 8 April, At tiat tes Miro should annuneiato tho political,

occaimle und sortal pusturos of the devalutionary Councily uoins to Castro

luvenirant's past rad curant sins as a bacturop for his remarko, Miro 18

axpuctod to sounl a clarion call prinarily diroctod at Latin Amorican

milencea, Fidel Cetro vill to labalad a counter-rovolutionary; tua Roval

utionary Council's objective vill bo a recapturo us the basia soalo of tho

rovalution, the 1940 coastitution a vory livaral dociment--10 consicorod to

provido diaquate anorgis to the problene which are facia, Cuba today, ocoa

there convoyod to Miru by Merero, Horlo, schlesinger nd othes sull be surfaced.

c.. The preas coulerance watch 10 to follon the muticipatad la

upeoch before the Unitod Mattias Dunoral Auscully 10 tontativaly scholuad

Sor 10 ADrIL IDÓl (Ginca Rea say not apari befora sionday, 10 Apr11, Laujor

Miro vanta to have a transcript of tho spooch on hand before making his

robuttal.) Vocallo of this rebuttal manut be pingointod at this navent,

hovevor, 1t rould ba essential that the theres sital 1n the attachmen: voila

so infactarl into Hiro'a and hia culloszuen' uttarancos at tant tino rod at

may other tina they rould bo sooting ith the press.

Aro exprosaed full açroment and the noting res adjourned.

8. On 7 Apr11 1951 Miro vant to lou Xori, tu vori on the norcuantioned

conforanco. Ho gave an intorviay to tho lan lori Tinos correspondont (attach-

ment C) vhich raftaited the guldanco elven in Miro tha provicus night.

at tha Hoodsmelt Hotal which was highly buecosstul..

ALPARD DROLLER

C, H11/4/PА

Attashnanta: (3)

1.

Quidenco fur Miro

?.

How York Tires Artiale of B Aur1l

3.

Declaratich of the Cuban Revolutionary Council

NW 65990 Docld:32385084 Page 3

---

