# DOCID-32346026

## Page 1

Date: 12/01/04

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION

FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER

: 104-10061-10216

RECORD SERIES

: JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

80T01357A

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM : H. CLARK SCHOR

:0/SA/DO/0

TITLE

HSCA REQUEST

01/24/1978

PAGES

2

SUBJECTS : HUNT

HSCA REQUEST

HUNT, HOWARD

AYERS, WILLIAM

CLASSIFICATION : SECRET

RESTRICTIONS

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

COMMENTS: 07/12/93

JEK9: F64: 1993.07.12.12:21:00:370530

Heleased under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note]. Case#:NW

65924 Date: 10.21-2021

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10061-10216

NW 65924 Docld:32346026 Page 1

---

## Page 2

SECRET

MISC'A WA

File 107g ano...

2 4 JAN 1978

MEMORANDUM FOR: 0/SA/ DO/0

FROM

SUBJECT

REFERENCES

: H. Clark Schor

Chief, Plans and Review Group

Central Cover Staff

House Select Committee on Assassinations

(HSCA) Request

A.

B.

Memorandum for 0/SA/DO/0 from OLC

(OLC 78-0351/1), dtd 19 Jan 78,

same subjoct

Letter for OLC from Chief Counsel/

Director of HSCA, dtd 18 Jan. 78

1. This memorandum is in response to the request in

paragraph 4 of Reference A.

2. CCS maintains a file on one of the 24 individuals

identified in Reference B, as follows:

E. Howard Hunt - Approximately 100 documents con-

cerning the establishment,

maintenance and use of

cover for subject during his Agency career as a staff

employee from 1949 to 1970, and, concerning subject's

participation in Watergate and subsequent related

inquiries from 1972 to 1977.

With respect to the

request in the third from last paragraph of Reference B,

the Hunt file contains seven documents pertaining to the

period 1958-1963.

These documents involve requests for

State travel orders while Mr. Hunt was assigned to

Uruguay under State cover, a State cable regarding

Mr. Hunt's extension of assignment to Uruguay, a memo of

resignation from the Foreign Service following assigr-

ment to Uruguay, and

a memorandun requesting appointment

to the foreign Service for assignment to Spain.

Additionally, CCS records contain index cards on the

following individuals:

a. Colonel Bradley E. Ayers - The index card shows

that a personal military cover file on Col. Ayers was

destroyed; date unknown but estimated to be approxi-

nately ten years ago when CCS separately-maintained

military, Stato, and non-official cover files were

E2 IMPDET

CL BY 004925

L NW 65924-Docld:32346026- Page 2

SFERIL

#6291

---

## Page 3

... ...

consolidatod into a single nunbered file system, begun

circa 1967.

We have ascertained that DDA/OP/SPD/MPB

holds a file on Col. Ayers.

b. Frank Sturgis aka Frank Fiorini - The index

card leads to a memorandum for the DDO, dated

& May 1974, Subject: Agency File Review on Watergate,

which states that no indexed reference and no leads to

information on Sturgis aka Fiorini

were found in CCS.

4.

In order to further identify Captain Willian Morgan

(item 13, Reference B), a middle initial and/or date of birth

is required. - CCS has

several index cards on William Morgans.

5.

As agreed between Mr. Shepanek and Mr. Latta of this

office in a discussion on 20 January 1978, relevant CCS files,

in this case that of Mr. lunt, can be made available for reviéw

in CCS by an

appropriately cleared HISCA Staff member.

H. Clark Schor

Distribution:

Original &

1 - Addressee

1

1

- DDO/ISS/IP/EIS

1

- 1088 (Hunt) (ud/ast)

1079710-41141900

• - CCS/PRG Chrono via board

HCS: acn (24 Jan 78)

2

N 65924 Docld:32346026 Page 3

---

