# DOCID-32989794

## Page 1

File #:

DO NOT

DESTROY

FOIPA#

N/A

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Flecords Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

65994 Date: 11-01-2021

602-51-5038

Serial Scope:

1-24

NW 65994-Voeld:32989724-Page-l-

---

## Page 2

DO NOT DECTROY

PENDING LITIGATION

KEEP AS TOP SERIAL - FILE 1O. 62-5038

Indefinite

NW 65994 Docld:32989794 Page 2

---

## Page 3

NR 074 LA CODE

PM VITEL 5-2-75 MSD

TO ALL SACS

FROM DIRECIOR

582-116395)

PERSONAL

VIENTION

SENSTUD

75

CAPTIONED MATTER PERIAINS TO BUREAU'S HANDLING OF REQUESTS

FROM SENATE AND HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEES TO STUDY GOVERNNENTAL

OPERATIONS MITH RESPECT TO INTELLIGENCE ACIIVITIES. IN CONNEC-

TION WITH WORK OF THESE COMMITTEES, STAFF MEMBERS MAY SEEK

TO INTERVIE! CURRENT AND FORMER FBI

EMPLOYEES.

RECENILY, THE SENATE SELECI COMMITTEE (SSO) STARE FAS

INTERVIEUED SEVERAL FORMER EMPLOYEES AND IT IS ANIICIPATED

THAI MANY MORE SUCH PERSONNEL WILL BE CONTACTED.

THE FBI HAS PLEDGED FULL COOPERATION WITH THE COMMITTEE

AND WE WISH TO ASSIST AND FACILITATE ANY INVESTIGATIONS UNDER-

TAKEN BY THE COMMITTEE WITH RESPECT TO IHE FBI. HOWEVER, WE

DO HAVE AN OBLIGATION TO INSURE THAT SENSITIVE SOURCES AND

METHODS AND ONGOING SENSITIVE INVESTIGATIONS ARE FULLY

512175

sisted

part

4 8g0

deed

62-5038 cak

SEARCHEDA

INDEXED

SERIALIZIO

NORED.

MI!Y

¿ 1975

Funch =

- Bende no

NW 65994 Docld:32989794 Page 3

---

## Page 4

PAGE TWO

PROTECTED. SHOULD ANY FORMER EMPLOYEE CONTACI YOUR OFFICE AND

HAVE ANY

QUESTION REGARDING HIS OBLIGATION NOT TO DIVULGE INFOR-

MATION OBTAINED BY VIRTUE OF HIS PASI FBI EMPLOYMENI, HE SHOULD

BE INNSTRUCTED TO CONTACT LEGAL COUNSEL, FBIHQ, BY COLLECT CALL.

YOUR CONVERSATIONS WITH FORMER EMPLOYEES MUST BE IN KEEPING WITH

OUR PLEDCE. IT IS BELIEVED SUCH A PROCEDURE WOULD INSURE PROPER

PROTECIION AND ALSO FACILITAIE THE WORK OF THE SSC.

THE ABOVE PROCEDURE ALSO APPLIES TO CURRENT EMPLOYEES

OF YOUR OFFICE.: HOWEVER, CONTACI WITH THE LEGAL COUNSEL SHOULD

BE HANDLED THROUGH THE SAC.

END

TIE TIME OUT SHOULD HAVE BEEN IEXXX 838 ON THE ABOVE TEL IKS GA

FBISL KCM REC FIVE TELS CLR/TU

NW 65994 Docld:32989794 Page 4

---

## Page 5

NR036 WA CODE

5:15PM NITEL 5-20-75 PAW

TO ALL SACS

FROM DIRECTOR

(62-116395)

PERSONAL ATTENTION

SENSTUDY

=75.

REBUTEL MAY 2, 1975.

IN CONNECTION WITH WORK OF THE SENATE AND HOUSE SELECT

COMMITTEES, IIS REPRESENTATIVES MAY CONTACT YOUR OFFICE FOR

INFORMATION.

IN ONE RECENT INSTANCE, A REPRESENTATIVE OF THE SENATE

SELECT COMMITTEE TELEPHONICALLY INQUIRED AS TO IDENTITY OF SAC

IN A PARTICULAR OFFICE DURING 1970.

IN HANDLING SUCH INQUIRIES INSURE ESTABLISHING BONA FIDES

OF REPRESENTATIVE BY SHOW OF CREDENTIALS ON PERSONAL CONTACT OR,

IF TELEPHONIC CONTACI, BY TELEPHONING BACK TO COMMITTEE.

UNLESS INFORMATION IS OF A PUBLIC NATURE, AS IN THE INSTANCE

CITED ABOVE, OBTAIN FBIHQ CLEARANCE PRIOR TO SUPPLYING ANY

INFORMATION. FBIHQ MUST BE EXPEDITIOUSLY ADVISED OF ALL

INFORMATION FURNISHED.

END

HOLD

ASAC

traine

fici

Capito

62-5038-2

SERIALIZED

In

MAY 2 ' 1975

FBI -ST. LOUIS

NW 65994 Docld:32989794 Page 5

---

## Page 6

NRO46 WA CODE

7855PM NITEL 3-24-75 DEB

TO ALL SACS

FROM DIRECTOR

SENATE SELECI COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES - RESEARCH MATTERS

SENATOR FRANK CHURCH, CHAIRMAN OF THE SENATE SELECT

COMMITTEE TO STUDY GOVERNMENTAL OPERATIONS WITH RESPECT TO

INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES HAS MADE AN INITIAL REQUEST FOR INFORMATION

FROM. THE FBI: AMONG THE ITEMS REQUESTED IS A BREAKDOWN OF

FIELD AGENT PERSONNEL ASSIGNED TO INTERNAL SECURITY AND

COUNTERINTELLIGENCE MATTERS • •

ACCORDINGLY, WITHIN FOUR EIGHI HOURS EACH SAC SHOULD SUTEL

TO FBIHQ, ATTENTION: BUDGET AND ACCOUNTING SECTION, SETTING FORTH

SEPARATELY THE NUMBER OF SACS, ASACS, SUPERVISORS AND AGENIS ASSIGNED

TO INTERNAL SECURITY AND COUNTERINTELLIGENCE MATTERS. PERCENTAGES

OF AN AGENT'S TIME, WHEN NOT ASSIGNED FULL-TIME TO THESE ACTIVITIES,

SHOULD BE USED IF APPROPRIATE, PARTICULARLY IN THE SUPERVISORY

CATEGORIES. THIS INFORMATION SHOULD BE BROKEN DOWN SEPARATELY

BETWEEN INTERNAL SECURITY AND COUNTERINTELLICENCE. YOUR RESPONSE SHOULD

BE LIMITED TO AGENT PERSONNEL ONLY.

END

HOLD

62-5038.3

4t 2971

SAC titt

Frenche

13.24.25

NW 65994 Docld:32989794 Page 6

---

## Page 7

TO

FROM :

SUBJECT:

-

OPTIONAL FORM NO, 10

JULY 1973

EDITION

GSA FPMR (41 CFR) 103-11.6

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

SAC, ST. LOUIS (94-new)

DATE:

3/25/75

SPVR. JACK A. FRENCH

SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE

ON INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

The following is a breakdown, by supervisory and

Agent assignments, of the percentage of time spent or

internal security and counterintelligence in this division.

Personnel Assigned

Internal Security

Counterintelligence

SAC WESLEY T. WHALEY

ASAC OSBORN LEON DOBBS

JACK A. FRENCH

RICHARD T. HRADSKY

WALTER C. JOHNSON

ROBERT S. STEWART

55

75

"

2

1

RONALD W. PARKER

8

STEPHEN D. KETTNER

MICHAEL E. STAPLETON

RUSSEL JAY NIELSEN

50

KEVIN R. ILLIA

BARRY A. JONES

8

LARRY B. BEAN

25

HILLIAM O• AHLER, JR.

HERMAN S. NICHOLS

MICHAEL S. CLAPP

10

WILLIAM R. DUNCAN

AUBREY D. PARK

WILLIAM R. BURTON

JAMES T. HAGGERTY

I-st. Louis

JAF: jtc

(1) •

te

624-5038-1

-

MAR 9 5 1975

FBI - SAINT LOVIS

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

NW 65994 Bocld:32989794 Page 7

---

## Page 8

FD-36 (Rev. 5-22-64)

Transmit the following in

TELETYPE

Via

FBI

Date: 3/26/75

PLAINTEXT

Type in plaintext or code.

URGENT

(Priority)

TO:

DIRECTOR

ATTENTION: BUDGET AND ACCOUNTING SECTION

FROM:

ST. LOUIS (94-297) RUC

SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES.

REBUNITEL TO ALL SACS MARCH 24, 1975.

THE FOLLOWING IS A BREAKDOWN OF FIELD AGENT PERSONNEL

ASSIGNED TO INTERNAL SECURITY AND COUNTERINTELLIGENCE MATTERS

IN THE ST. LOUIS DIVISION AS REQUESTED BY RE COMMUNICATION.

NEITHER THE SAC OR THE ASAC SARE MESSED ASSIGNED TO

INTERNAL SECURITY OR COUNTERINTELLIGENCE MATTERS. ONLY ONE

SUPERVISOR IS ASSIGNED TO SUCH MATTERS, HE SPENDS APPROXIMATELY

55 PERCENT OF HIS TIME ON INTERNAL SECURITY AND TWO PERCENT ON

COUNTERINTELLIGENCE MATTERS.

SIX AGENTS SPEND APPROXIMATELY, 75 PERCENT OF THEIR TIME

ON INTERNAL SECURITY AND ONE PERCENT ON COUNTER INTELLIGENCE

ALA TERS.

Coi

THE REMAINING AGENTS SPEND NO TIME ON COUNTERINTELLIGENCE

947

29 MATTERS BUT SPEND THE LISTED PERCENTAGE OF TIME ON INTERNAL

SECURITY: THREE AGENTS, 50 PERCENT; THREE AGENTS, 25 PERCENT;

5038

ONE AGENT, 10 PERCENT; TWO AGENTS, 5 PERCENT,

TwO AGENTS, 2

S44140

94-3973

1- St. Louis

JAF: jtC

(1)

Approved:

2 Special

Agent it Charg

NW 65994 Docld:329897344 Page 8

Stripred

11:.2./2560

Sent &

0,85x119

JAKN

+41 662-5038-5

U.S.Government Printing Office: 1972-455-574

---

## Page 9

FD=36 (Rev. 5-22-64)

Transmit the following in

Via

FBI

Date:

(Type in plaintext or code)

(Priority)

PAGE THO

SL 94-297

ABOVE FIGURES REFLECT BOTH HEADQUARTERS CITY AND

RESIDENT AGENTS IN THIS DIVISION.

END.

Approved:

Special Agent in Charge

NW 65994 Docld:32989794 Page 9

Sent

M

Per.

U.S. Government Printing Office: 1972-455-574

---

## Page 10

NRD33 WA CODE

4:5 DPM 9/4/75 NITEL AJN

1O ALL SACS

FROM DIRECTOR (62-116395)

PERSONAL ATTENTION

SENSTUDY 75

REBUTEL MAY 2, 1975.

PURPOSE OF INSTANT TELETYPE ARE TO (1) REITERATE THAT

FBI HAS PLEDGED FULL COOPERATION WITH THE SENATE SELECT

COMMITTEE (SSC) AND WISHES TO ASSISI AND FACILITATE ANY

INVESTIGATIONS UNDERTAKEN BY THE SSC WITH RESPECI TO THE FBI;

AND (2) SET FORTH NEW PROCEDURE RELATING TO SSC STAFF

INTERVIEWS OF CURRENT AND FORMER FBI EMPLOYEES •

FOR INFORMATION OF THOSE OFFICES WHICH HAVE NOT PREVIOUSLY

HAD CURRENT OR FORMER EMPLOYEES IN IIS TERRITOY INTERVIEWED

• BY THE SSC, THE BUREAU FREQUENTLY LEARNS FROM THE SSC OR

OTHERWISE THAT FORMER EMPLOYEES ARE BEING CONSIDERED FOR

INTERVIEW BY THE SSC STAFF. INSTRUCTIONS ARE ISSUED FOR THE

FIELD OFFICE TO CONTACT THE FORMER EMPLOYEE TO ALERT HIM AS TO

POSSIBLE INTERVIEW, REMIND HEM OF HIS CONFIDENTIALITY AGREEMENT

WITH THE BUREAU AND SUGGEST THAT IF HE IS CONTACTED FOR

62-5038-7

SAC

N320.

ASAC

#4 10

#5.

SEP 4

1975

FBI-ST. LOU:3

NW 65994 Docld:32989794 Page 10

---

## Page 11

:

PAGE TWO

INTERVIEW, HE MAY CONTACT THE LEGAL COUNSEL DIVISION BY

COLLECT CALL FOR FURTHER INFORMATION. IN THE USUAL CASE,

AS CIRCUMSTANCES UNFOLD, THE FORMER EMPLOYEE IS TOLD(1)

THAT HE HAS A RIGHT TO LEGAL COUNSEL, BUT THAT THE BUREAU

CANNOT PROVIDE SAME; (2) THAT THE BUREAU HAS WAIVED THE

CONFIDENTIALITY AGREEMENT FOR THE INTERVIEW WITHIN SPECIFIED

PARAMETERS; AND (3) THAT THERE ARE FOUR PRIVILEGED AREAS IN

WHICH HE IS NOT REQUIRED TO ANSWER QUESTION. THESE AREAS

ARE RELATING TO INFORMATION WHICH MAY (A) IDENTIFY BUREAU

SOURCES; (B) REVEAL SENSITIVE METHODS /TECHNIQUES; (C) REVEAL

IDENTITIES OF THIRD AGENCIES, INCLUDING FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE

AGENCIES, OR INFORMATION FROM SUCH AGENCIES; AND (D) ADVERSELY

AFFECT ONGOING BUREAU INVESTIGATIONS •

• HERTOFORE, BUREAU HAS OFFERED INTERVIEWEES CONSULTATION

PRIVILEGES WHEREBY A BUREAU SUPERVISOR WOULD BE AVAILABLE

NEARBY, ALTAUGH NOI ACTUALLY AT INTERVIEW, SO INTERVIEVEE

MIGHT CONSULT WITH HIM SHOULD QUESTIONS ARISE AS TO PARAMETERS

OF INTERIEW OR PRIVILEGED AREAS. THE CONSULTANT DID NOT ACT

AS A LEGAL ADVISOR.

EFFECTIVE IMMEDIATELY, BUREAU WILL NO LONGER PROVIDE

• NW 65994 Docld:32989794 Page 11

---

## Page 12

PAGE THREE

ON-THE-SCENE PERSONNEL FOR CONSULTATION PURPOSES TO ASSIST

EITHER CURRENT OF FORMER •EMPLOYEES. PROSPECTIVE INTERVIEWEES

SHOULD BE TOLD THAT, IF THEY DESIRE ASSISIANCE OF THIS NATURE

DURING AN INTERVIEW, THEY MAY CONTACI EITHER PERSONALLY (IF

INTERVIEW IS IN WASHINGION, DO C.) OR BY COLLECI CALL, THE

ASSISTANI DIRECTOR OF THE INTELLIGENCE DIVISION, MR. W. R.

WANNALL, OR, IN HIS ABSENCE, SECTION CHIEF W. O. CREGAR.

THIS CANGE IN PROCEDURE SHOULD NOT BE CONSTRUED AS

LESSENING THE ASSISTANCE WE ARE FURNISHING TO CURRENT AND

FORMER EMPLORES.

FOR GUR ADDITIONAL INFORMATION, I AM WORKING WITH THE

DEPARTMENT IN EXPLORING AVENUES TO ARRANGE LEGAL REPRESENTATION

WHEN NECESSARY, FOR CURRENT AND FORMER EMPLOYEES WITHOUT

EXPENSE TO THEM. YOU WILL BE KEPT ADVISED OF DEVELOPMENIS

IN THIS REGARD.

END

NW 65994 Docld:32989794 Page 12

---

## Page 13

FD-36 (Rev. 5-22-64)

Transmit the following in

Via

TELETYPE

FBI.

Date: SEPTEMBER 4, 1975

CODE

(Type in plaintext or code)

NITEL

(Priority)

TO :

DIRECTOR (62-116395)

FROM:

ST. LOUIS (62-5038)

ATTENTION: INTD, W. O. CREGAR.

SENSTUDY 75.

RE BUREAU NITEL TO BOSTON, SEPTEMBER 3, 1975.

AVAILABLE RECORDS ST. LOUIS DIVISION REFLECT NO

COORDINATORS DESIGNATED FOR NEW LEFT AND BLACK EXTREMIST

COINTELPROS. SUCH MATTERS WERE UNDER SUPERVISION OF FOLLOWING

PERSONNEL FOR BELOW PERIODS: JANUARY 1967 THRU SEPTEMBER 1968,

SUPERVISOR EDMUND C. WELTON; OCTOBER 1968 TO MAY 1969, SAC

JOSEPH H. GAMBLE; JUNE 1969 TO OCTOBER 1969, SUPERVISOR JOHN

J. BUCKLEY; NOVEMBER 1969 THRU DECEMBER 1971, SUPERVISOR

EDWARD M. MORELAND.

MORELAND IS STILL ASSIGNED TO ST. LOUIS DIVISION; ALI

OTHERS ARE RETIRED FROM FBI.

‹I st. Iouis

JAF: jtc

(1)

(02)

Approved:

NW 65994 Docld:32989794 Page 13

62-5038-8

SEARCHEN

SERIALIZED_

INDEXED.

FILED

- Sent 5%p-JACM Per KOM

* U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1969 0 - 346-090 (11)

---

## Page 14

diaris

FD-36 (Rev. 5-22-64)

Transmit the following in

Via

NITEL

FBI

Date: 9/9/75

(Type in plaintext or code)

(Priority)

TO :

DIRECTOR (62-116395) AND DETROIT

FROM:

ST. LOUIS (62-5038)

SENSTUDY 75

REBUNITEL SEPTEMBER 5, 1975.

FOR INFORMATION DETROIT, RETEL ADVISED THAT SENATE SELECT

COMMITTEE (SSC) HAS REQUESTED WHEREABOUTS OF A NUMBER OF FORMER FBI

EMPLOYEES INDICATING THEY MAY BE INTERVIEWED BY THE SSC STAFF.

INFORMATION FROM SSC INDICATES NAMES OF FORMER SA'S LITRENTO AND

STEWART DEVELOPED AS HAVING BEEN RESPONSIBLE FOR SUPERVISING

COMMUNICATIONS BETWEEN THE FBI AND CIA CONCERNING MAIL OPENING

ACTIVITIES. ALL OTHERS IN LIST SET OUT IN RETEL WERE EITHER SAC,

ASAC, OR BOTH, DURING PERIOD 1959 - 1966, IN ONE OR MORE OF THE

FOLLOWING OFFICES: BOSTON, DETROIT, LOS ANGELES, MIAMI, NEW YORK,

SAN FRANCISCO, SEATTLE, AND WASHINGTON FIELD. THEY PRESUMABLY ARE

ALSO KNOWLEDGEABLE CONCERNING MAIL OPENINGS. EACH OF THESE FORMER

EMPLOYEES IS TO BE IMMEDIATELY CONTACTED AND ALERTED THAT HE MIGHT

BE APPROACHED BY THE SSC STAFF FOR INTERVIEW. THE FORMER EMPLOYEE

MAY, AFTER BEING CONTACTED BY SSC STAFF, CONTACT BUREAU'S LEGAL

COUNSEL DIVISION BY COLLECT CALI FOR FULI INFORMATION TO ASSIST HIM

65-5038-9

INCLUDING OBLIGATIONS AS TO CONFIDENTIALITY OF INFORMATION ACQUIRED.

END PAGE ONE.

ASAC dIA

064

Approved: -

HCl

Special Agent in Charge

NW 65994 Docld:32989794 Page 14

Dent 51Sp- MILP

-SERLALIZED

INDEXED_

Per REDIA

U.S. Government Printing Office: 1972 - 455-574

---

## Page 15

FD-36 (Rev. S-22-64)

Transmit the following in

Via

NITEL

FBI

Date: 9/9/75

(Type in plaintext or code)

(Priority)

PAGE TWO

SL 62-5038

AS FBI EMPLOYEE. IT IS EMPHASIZED THAT BUREAU'S OFFER OF ASSISTANCE

IS NOT INTENDED TO IMPEDE SSC WORK, BUT IS DONE AS COOPERATIVE

GESTURE AND TO SAFEGUARD SENSITIVE BUREAU INFORMATION. CONTACTS

WITH THESE FORMER EMPLOYEES TO BE HANDLED PERSONALLY BY SAC OR ASAC.

IN EVENT THIS IS NOT FEASIBLE FOR JUST CAUSE, TO BE HANDLED BY A

SENIOR SUPERVISOR. IMMEDIATELY AFTER CONTACT, RESULTS SHOULD BE

FURNISHED BUREAU BY NITEL IN ABOVE CAPTION, BRIEFLY INCLUDING

REACTION OF FORMER EMPLOYEE CONTACTED.

FORMER SAC WESLEY T. WHALEY CONTACTED BY SAC, ST. LOUIS, THIS

DATE. HE WAS FURNISHED INSTRUCTIONS CONTAINED IN RETEL AND ADVISED

IF CONTACTED HE WOULD PROMPTLY CONTACT BUREAU'S LEGAL DIVISION. HE

ADVISED HE DOES NOT BELIEVE HE POSSESSES ANY RELEVANT INFORMATION

RE MAIL OPENINGS BUT STATED HE IS VERY PRO-BUREAU AND WOULD DO OR

SAY NOTHING TO JEOPARDIZE THE BUREAU'S REPUTATION.

FORMER SAC THOMAS J. GEARTY PRESENTLY RESIDES SOMERSET

APARIMENTS, 2446 DORCHESTER N., TROY, MICHIGAN 48084. DETROIT

HANDLE PURSUANT TO INSTRUCTIONS IN REBUTEL.

END

HCP : NIN

Approved: —

Special Agent in Charge

NW 65994 Docld:32989794 Page 15

-

Sent

-M Per

U.S.Government Printing Office: 1972 - 455-574

---

## Page 16

NR B30 WA CODE

6:45PM NITEL 9/5/75 PMJ

TO ALEXANDRIA

BOSTON

DALLAS

JACKSON

LOS ANGELES

NEW YORK

PHILADELPHIA

SAN DIEGO

BAL TIMO RE

CHICAGO

EL PASO

JACKSONVILLE.

MEMPHIS

OKLAHOMA CITY

PHOENIX

SAN FRANCISCO

SEATTLE

FROM DIRECTOR (62-116395)

PERSONAL ATTENTION

-5038*

BIRMINGHAM

CINCINNATI

INDIANAPOLIS

LOUISVILLE

MIAMI

O MAHA

ST. LOUIS

SAVANNAH

SENSTUDY 75

REBTELS MAY 2, 1975, AND SEPTEMBER 4, 1975.

SENATE SELECI COMMITTEE (SSC) HAS REQUESTED WHEREABOUTS

OF A NUMBER OF FORMER FBI. EMPLOYEES INDICATING THEY MAY BE

INTERVIEVED BY THE SSC STAFF. LISTED BELOW, BY FIELD OFFICE

TERRITORY, ARE THESE FORMER EMPLOYEES AND THEIR LAST KNOWN

ADDRESSES AS CONTAINED IN BUREAU FILES.

7545emy

'(MALIZED.

Nw sso 500

Docld:32989794 Page 16

62-5038-10

_INDEKED

SEP 5

1975

54C

ASAC A

(info)

---

## Page 17

PAGE TWO

INFORMATION FROM SSC INDICATES NAMES OF FORMER SA'S. •

LITRENTO AND STEWART DEVELOPED AS HAVING BEEN RESPONSIBLE FOR

SUPERVISING COMMUNICATIONS BETWEEN THE FBI AND CIA CONCERNING

MAIL OPENING ACTIVITIES. ALL OTHERS IN LISI BELOW WERE EITHER

SAC, ASAC, OR BOTH, DURING PERIOD 1959 - 1966 IN ONE OR MORE

OF THE FODWING OFFICES: BOSTON, DETROIT, LOS ANGELES, MIAMI,

NEW YORK, SAN FRANCISCO, SEATTLE, AND WASHINGION FIELD. THEY

PRESUMABLY ARE ALSO KNOWLEDGEABLE CONCERNING MAIL OPENINGS.

EACH OF THESE FORMER EMPLOYEES IS TO BE IMMEDIATELY

CONTACTED AND ALERTED THAT HE MIGHI BE APPROACHED BY THE SSC

STAFF FOR INTERVIEW. THE FORMER EMPLOYEE MAY, AFTER BEING

CONTACTED BY SSC SIAFF, CONTACT BUREAU'S LEGAL COUNSEL DIVISION

BY COLLECT CALL FOR FULL INFORMATION TO ASSIST HIM INCLUDING

OBLIGATIONS AS TO CONFIDENTIALITY OF INFORMATION ACQUIRED AS

FBI EMPLORE. IT IS EMPHASIZED THAI BUREAU'S OFFER OF

ASSISTANCE IS NOT INTENDED TO IMPEDE SSC WORK, BUT IS DONE

AS COOPERATIVE GESTURE AND TO SAFEGUARD SENSITIVE BUREAU

INFORMATION.

NW 65994 Docld:32989794 Page 17

---

## Page 18

PAGE THRE

CONTACTS WITH THESE FORMER EMPLOYEES TO BE HANDLED

PERSONALLY BY SAC OR ASAC. IN EVENT THIS IS NOT FEASIBLE

FOR JUST CAUSE, TO BE HANDLED BY A SENIOR SUPERVISOR.

IMMEDIATELY AFTER CONTACI, RESULIS SHOULD BE FURNISHED

BUREAU BY NITEL IN ABOVE CAPTION, BRIEFLY INCLUDING REACTION

OF FORMER EMPLOYEES CONTACTED. IF A FORMER EMPLOYEE NO

LONGER IN YOUR TERRITORY OR TEMPORARILY AWAY, SET OUT LEAD TO

OTHER OFFICE IMMEDIATELY WITH COPY TO FBIHQ.

ALEXANDRIA:

W. DONALD STEWARI, CRYSTAL HOUSE I, APARTMENT 202, ARLINGTON,

VIRGINIA.

JAMES HO GALE, 3307 ROCKY MOUNT ROAD, FAIRFAX, VIRGINIA

THOMAS E BISHOP, 8820 STARK ROAD, ANNANDALE, VIRGINIA

BAL TIMORE :

ANTHONY P. LITRENTO, 2810 STONYBROOK DRIVE, BOWIE, MARYLAND

PAUL OCONNELL, JR., 2417 STRATION DRIVE, POTOMAC, MARYLAND

DONALD E: RONEY, 131 CAMBRIDGE DRIVE, WINDSOR HILLS,

WILMINGION, DELAWARE

VICTOR TURYN, 2645 TURF VALLEY ROAD, ELLICOTT CITY,

MARYLAND

DONALD W. MORLEY, BOX 222, NEW MARKET, MARYLAND

NW 65994 Docld:32989794 Page 18

---

## Page 19

PAGE FOUR

BIRMINGHAM:

BOSTON:

CHICAG:

JOHN DAVID POPE, JR., 221 REMINGTON ROAD, BIRMINGHAM, ALABAMA

LEO L. LAUGHLIN, 9 EVERETT AVENUE, WINCHESTER, MASSACHUSETIS

EDWARD J. POWERS, 10 COLONIAL DRIVE, BEDFORD, NEW HAMPSHIRE

JaF. DESMOND, 185 FRANKLIN STREET, BOSTON, MASSACHUSETIS

MARLIN W. JOHNSON, CANTEEN CORPORATION, THE MERCHANDISE

MARI, CHICAGO, ILLINOIS

HARVEY G. FOSTER, 1012 SOUTH HAMLIN, PARK RIDGE, ILLINOIS

CINCINNATI :

PAUL FIELDS, 2677 CYCLORAMA DRIVE, CINCINNATI, OHIO

HRR J. MORGAN, 5314 ELMCREST LANE, CINCINNATI, OHIO

DALLAS:

PAUL H. STODDARD, 3014 CHATTERION DRIVE, SAN ANGELO, TEXAS

KENNEN E. COMMONS, 2458 DOUGLAS DRIVE, SAN ANGELO, TEXAS.

EL PASO:

KARL W.DISSLY, POST OFFICE BOX 9762, EL PASO, TEXAS

INDIANAPOLIS:

DILLARD W. HOWELL, 6413 CARDINAL LANE, INDIANAPOLIS,

INDIANA

ALLAN GILLIES, 8228 HOOVER LANE, INDIANAPOLIS, INDIANA

JACKSON:

WILLIAMS W. BURKE, JR., 1847 AZTEC DRIVE, JACKSON,

MISSISSIPPI

NW 65994 Docld:32989794 Page 19

---

## Page 20

PAGE FIVE

JACKSONVILLE:

DONALD K. BROWN, 826 BROOKMONI AVENUE, EAST JACKSONVILLE,

FLORIDA

WILLIAM M. ALEXANDER, 4857 WATER OAK LANE, JACKSONVILLE,

FLORIDA

LOUISVILLE:

BERNARD C. BROWN, 23D1 NEWMARKET DRIVE, N.E.., LOUISVILLE,

KENTUCKY

LOS ANGELES:

WILLIAM G. SIMON, 2075 LOMBARDY ROAD, SAN MARINO,

CALIFORNIA

WESLEY G. GRAPP, 4248 BON HOMME ROAD, WOODLAND HILLS,

CALIFORNIA

ARNOLD C. LARSON, 4232 ABBINGTON COURT, WESTLAKE VILLAGE,

CALIFORNIA

JOSEPH K. PONDER, 3719 CARRIAGE HOUSE COURI, ALEXANDRIA,

VIRGINIA. BUSINESS ADDRESS: 3039 SOUTH RED HILL AVENUE,

SANTA ANA, CALIFORNIA

MEMPHIS:

E. HUGO WINTERROWD, 1558 NORTH PARKWAY, MEMPHIS, TENNESSEE

MIAMI:

THOMAS MC ANDREWS, 324 NEAPOLITAN WAY, NAPLES, FLORIDA

FREDEICK F. FOX, 1145D W. BISCAYNE CANAL ROAD, MIAMI,

FLORIDA

NW 65994 Docld:32989794 Page 20

---

## Page 21

PAGE SIX

NEW YORK:

JOSEPH L. SCHMIT, 656 HUNT LANE, MANHASSET, NEW YORK

HENRY A. FIIZGIBBON, 76 EASTON ROAD, BRONXVILLE, NEW YORK

OKLAHDA CITY :

JAMES I. MORELAND, 198 FERN DRIVE, POTEAU, OKLAHOMA

LEE 0. TEAGUE, 2501 N.W. 121SI STREET, OKLAHOMA CITY,

OKLAHDA

OMAHA :

JOHN F. CALLAGHAN, IOWA LAW ENFORCEMENT ACADEMY,

CAMP DODGE, POST OFFICE BOX 13D, JOHNSTON, IOWA.

PHILADELPHIA:

RICHARD. J. BAKER, 219 JEFFREY LANE, NEWTON SQUARE,

PENNSYLVANIA

JOHN F. MALONE, 25 GARFIELD AVENUE, CARBONDALE, PENNSYLVANIA

PHOENIX:

PALMER M BAKEN, JR., 3832 EAST YUCCA STREET, PHOENIX,

ARIZONA

ST. LOUIS:

THOMAS J. GEARTY, 6638 CLAYION ROAD NR. 105, RICHMOND HEIGHTS,

MISSOURI

WESLEY I. WHALEY, 286 GREEN TRAILS DRIVE, CHESTERFIELD,

MISSOURI

NW 65994 Docld:32989794 Page 21

---

## Page 22

PAGE SEVEN

SAN DIEG:

SAN FRANCISCO:

CALIFORNIA

CALIFORNIA

SAVANNAH :

GEORGIA

SEATTLE:

WASHINGTON

WASHINGTON

END

FRANK L. PRICE, 2705 TOKALON STREET, SAN DIEGO, CALIFORNIA

CURTIS O. LYNUM, 644 EAST HILLSDALE BOULEVARD, SAN MATEO,

HAROLD E. WELBORN, 13067 LA VISIA COURI, SARATOGA,

TROY COLEMAN, 36 CROMWELL ROAD, WILMINGTON PARK, SAVANNAH,

JOSEPH D. PURVIS, 721 DANCY AVENUE, SAVANNAH, GEORGIA

LELAND V. BOARDMAN, ROUTE 3, BOX 268, SEQUIM, WASHINGION

• RICHARD D. AUERBACH, P.O. BOX 1768, SEATTLE, WASHINGION

JAMES E. MILNES, 4317 - 50TH AVENUE, N.E., SEATTLE,

PAUL R. BIBLER, 15134 - 38TH AVENUE, N.E., SEATTLE,

PLS HOLDFOR ONE MORE

L. NW 65994 Docid:32989794 Page 22

---

## Page 23

DRA63 MA CODE

9:55 PM NITEL 9/17/75 MEB

TO ALEXANDRIA

JACKSONVILLE

ATLANTA

KNOXVILLE

BOSTON

LOS ANGELES

DETROIT

MEMPHIS

JACKSON

NEWARK

FROM DIRECTOR (62-116395)

NET! YORK

• RICHMOND

ST. LOUIS

SAN DIEGO

SEATTLE

PERSONAL ATTENTION

SENSTUDY 75 - !

REBUTELS MAY 2, 1975, AND SEPTEMBER 4, 1975, TO

ALL OFFICES AUD BUTELS SEPTEMBER 3, 1975, TO SELECTED OFFICES

INFORMING LATTER THAT SENATE SELECT COMMITTFE (SSC) HAD

RIQUESTED IDENTITIES OF ALL SUPERVISORS AND COORDINATORS FOR

COINTELPROS IN SELECTED OFFICES FOR (1) NEW LEFT AND BLACK

EXTREMIST, 1967 THROUGH 1971, AND (2) FOR WHITE HATE, 1964

THROUGH 1971•

SSC ALSO REQUESTED LOCATIONS OF PERSONS NAMED IN FIELD

RESPONSES TO REFERENCED SEPTEMPER 3, 1975, TELETYPES, AND

LATEST INFORMATION IN FBIHN FILES HAS BEEN FURNISHED TO SSC.

62-5038.

• NICHED

FEALIZED

ANDENED

SEP 17 1975

F81 - 5T. LOUIS

331115

NW 65994 Docld:32989794 Page 23

---

## Page 24

PAGE TWO

SSC STAFF MAY CONTACI CUPRENT AND/OR FORMER EMPLOYEES NAMED,

TO INTERVIFW THEM CONCERNING THEIR KNOWLECGE OF COINTELPROS

IN WHICH THEY HAD SUPERVISORY OP COORDINATING RESPONSIBILITIES.

EACH OF THE FOLLOWING FORMER EMPLOYEES EXCEPT MESSRS.

CROKE AND MCMANUS. ÌS TO RE CONTACTED IMMEDIATELY AND ALERTED

THAT HE MIGHT BE APPROACHED BY THE SSC STAFE FOR INTERVIEW.

THE FORMER EMPLOYEE MAY, AFTER BEING CONTACTED BY SSC STAFF,

CONTACT BUREAU'S LEGAL COUNSEL DIVISION BY COLLECT CALL FOR

FULL INFORMATION TO ASSIST HII INCLUDING OBLIGATIONS AS TO

CONFIDENTIALITY OF INFORMATION ACAUIRED AS FBI EMPLOYEE. IT

IS EMPHASIZED THAT BUREAU'S OFFER OF ASSISTANCE IS NOT

INTENDED TO IMPEDE SSC WORK, BUT IS DONE AS COOPERATIVE

GESTURE AND TO SAFEGUARD SENSITIVE BUREA! INFORMATION.

CONTACTS WITH THESE FORMER EMPLOYEES TO BE HANDLED

PERSONALLY BY SAC OR ASAC.

→ IN EVENT THIS IS NOI FEASIBLE

TOR JUST CAUSE, TO BE HANDLED BY A SENIOR SUPFRVISOR.

REGARDING FORMER SAS CROKE AND MCMANUS, SSC HAS BEEN

INFORMED OF THEIR POOR PHYSICAL CONDITION AND REQUESTED IO

TAKE THIS INTO CONCIDFRATION IN ANY ACTION CONTEMPLATED BY

SSC CONCERNING THEM.

WE DO NOT, HOWEVER, KNOW THAT SCO WILL

NW 65994 Docld:32989794 Page 24

---

## Page 25

PAGE THREE

NOT CONTACI THEM. NEW YORK OFFICE, IN COORDIMATION WITH

NEWARK SHOULD ARRANGE TO HAVE CONTACT MADE ITH CROKE AND

MCMANUS BY A FORMER ASSOCIATE TO MAKE FRIENDLY INQUIRY AS TO

THEIR CURRENT CONDITION: IT IS BEING LEFT TO DISCRETION O5

SAS NEM YORK AND NEWARK, BASED ON RESULTS OF SUCH INQUIRY,

WHETHER CROKE AND MCMANUS SHOULD BE INFORMED REGARDING

POSSIBLE CONTACT OF THEM BY SSC. FBIHA DOES HOT DESIRE

THAT THEY BE UNDULY ALARMED, BUT WOULD NOT WANT THE SURPRISED

BY CONTACT OF SSC STAFF IF THIS COULD IMPÄIR THEIR HEALTH.

IMMEDIATELY AFTER CONTACT, RESULTS SHOULD BE FURNISHED

BUREAU BY NITEL IN ABOVE CAPTION, AITENTION INTO, " O. CREGAR,

BRIEFLY INCLUDING REACTION OF FORMER EMPLOYEES CONTACTED. IF

A FORMER EMPLOYEE WO LONGER IN YOUR IEPRITORY OR TEMPORAPILY

S"'AY, SET OUT LEAD TO OTHER OFFICE INMEDIATELY WITH COPY TO

FBIH?.

ALEXANDRIA:

SETH F. EIKENBERRY, 5367 SUMMIT DRIVE, FAIPFAX, VIRGINIA

JESSE C. HALL, JR.,

4535 FATEN PLACE, ALEXAWOPIA, VIRGINIA

ATLANTA:

CARL E. CLAIBORNE, 1966 MARY LOU LANE,

co 5o, ATLANTA,

NW 65994 Docld:32989794 Page 25

---

## Page 26

PAGE FOUR

GEORGIA

RICHARD H. DAVIS, 1147 MILD CREEK TRAIL, ATLANTA, GEORGIA

CHARLES S. HARDING, 2243 PINTCLIFE DRIVE,

N. E., ATLANTA,

GEORGIA

3OSTOV:

RICHARD H. BLASSER, 129 ACADEMY AVENUE, MEYMOUTH,

MASSACHUSFTTS

FREDERICK M. CONNORS, 15 LONGFELLO! POAD, MELROSE,

MASSACHUSETTS

MICHAEL J. MCDONAGH, 2E SPRINGVALE ROAD, NORWOOD,

MASSACHUSETTS

JOHN F. NOONAN, 122 VERNON ROAD, SCITUATE, MASSACHUSETTS

DETROIT:

ROBERT F. D'NEILL, 2551 IROQUOIS, DETROIT, MICHIGAN

JACKSON:

ROY. K. MOORE, 107 SWALLOW DRIVE, BRANDON, MISSISSIPPI

JACKSONVILLE:

FLORIDA

1% HERSHEL CAVER, 3714 NORTHWEST 40TH STREET, GAINESVILLE,

KNOXVILLE:

NW 65994 Docld:32989794 Page 26

---

## Page 27

PAGE, FIVF

IRVING R. ANDERSON, 1629 PERCH DRIVE, CONCORD, TENNESSEE

LOS ANGELES:

JOHN KEARNEY, 4140 MAYFIELD STREET, NEWBURY PARK,

CALIFORNIA

RICHARD J. STILLING, 11649 AMESTOY SIPEET, GRAHADA HILLS,

CALIFORNIA

JOHN S. TEMPLE,

2145 GRENADIER, SAN PEDRO, CALIFOPNIA

MEMPHIS:

PHILIP S. ENDRES, 22 SOUTH SECOND CIRTET, MEMPHIS,

TENNESSEE

NEWARK:

BENJAMIN P. MCMANUS, 25 MICHAEL STREET, FORDS, NEW JERSEY

NEW YORK:

THOMAS J. CROKE, JR, 15 HOFSTRA DRIVE, GREENLAN, NEW YOR!

JOHN J. DUNLEAVY, 17 SOUTHVIEH CT., CARLE PLACE, YEN YOD!!

JOSTPH HA GAMBLE, 24 GREYSTONE ROAD, ROCKVILLE CENTRE,

NEY YORK

RICHMOND:

CHARLES F. HEINER, 25 TWIN LAKE LAME, RICHMOND, VIRGINIA

RADOLPH E. TROM,

1702 RANCH DRIVE,

RICHMOND, VIRGINIA

NW 65994 Docld:32989794 Page 27

---

## Page 28

PAGE SIX

SAINT LOUIS:

MISSOURI

SA! DIFGO:

SFATTLE:

MASHINGTON

END

PLEASE HOLD FOR ONE MORE

JOHN H. WAGNER, 8220 PAPNINGHAM DOAD, RICHMOND, VIRGINIA

JOHN J. BUCKLEY, 9469 HARALD DRIVE, MOODSON TERRACE,

135:

EDMUND C. "FLION, 825 DEANDELL COURT, FERGUSON, MISSOURI FLY

ROBFRI S. BAKER, 426° HORTENSIA, SAN DIFGO, CALIFORNIA

LEROY I SHEETS, 5725 72ND STREET,

N. To, MARYSVILLE,

* NW 65994 Docid:32989794 Page 28

---

## Page 29

FD-36 (Rev, 5-22-64)

FBI

Date:

9/18/75

Transmit the following in

CODEL

Type in plaintext or code

Via TELETYPE

NITEL

(Priority)

-

TO:

DIRECTOR (62-116395, 129MA

9-19175-

FROM

ST. LOUIS (62-5038)

ATTENTION: INTD, W. O. CREAGER

SEN STUDY 75

RE BUREAU NITEL TO ALEXANDRIA, SEPTEMBER 17, 1975.

ON SEPTEMBER 18, 1975, JOHN J. BUCKLEY, 9469 HAROLD DRIVE,

WOODSON TERRACE, MO., WAS CONTACTED BY ASAC, ST. LOUIS, THIS DATE.

HE WAS FURNISHED INSTRUCTIONS CONTAINED IN REFERENCED TELETYPE AND

ADVISED IF CONTACTED HE WOULD PROMPTLY CONTACT BUREAU'S LEGAL

DIVISION. HE ADVISED HE DOES NOT BELIEVE HE POSSESSES ANY PERTI-

NENT INFORMATION BUT STATED HE WOULD NOT JEOPARDIZE THE BUREAU'S

REPUTATION.

ST. LOUIS ATTEMPTING TO CONTACT EDMUND C. WELTON.

END.

JTH : vls

62-5038-12

Approved: J/RAN

Special Agent in Charge

NW 65994 Docld:32989794 Page 29

Sent

no adore,

* U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1969 0 - 346-090 (11)

---

## Page 30

FD-36 (Rev, 5-22-64)

Transmit the following in

Via

TELETYPE

FBI

Date:

9/19/75

CODED

(Type in plaintext or code)

NITEL

(Priority)

TO:

FROM:

DIRECTOR (62-116395)

ST. LOUIS (62-5038)

ATTENTION: INTD, W. O. CREAGER

SENSTUDY 75

RE BUREAU NITEL TO ALEXANDRIA, SEPTEMBER 17, 1975 AND

ST. LOUIS NITEL TO BUREAU, SEPTEMBER 18, 1975.

ON SEPTEMBER 19, 1975, EDMUND C. WELTON, 825 DEANDELI COURT,

FERGUSON, MISSOURI, WAS CONTACTED BY SAC, ST. LOUIS, THIS DATE.

HE WAS FURNISHED INSTRUCTIONS CONTAINED IN REFERENCED TELETYPE

AND ADVISED IF CONTACTED HE WOULD PROMPTLY CONTACT THE BUREAU'S

LEGAL STAFF. HE ADVISED HE DOES NOT BELIEVE HE POSSESSES ANY

PERTINENT INFORMATION AND STATED HE WOULD NOT JEOPARDIZE THE

BUREAU'S REPUTATION.

END.

JTH: VIS

(1)

62-5038-13

Tie sir

Approved:

-

Special Agent in Charge

NW 65994 Docld:32989794 Page 30

* U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE : 1968 0 - 346-090 (11)

---

## Page 31

Routing Stip

0-7 (r*ev. 7-11-75)

TO: SAC:

DJ Albany

_ Albuquerque

Alexanúria

Anchorage

Allanta

Baltimore

Binningham

Boston

Buffalo

Butte

Charlotte

Chicago

Cincinnati

Cleveland

Columbia

Dallas

Denver

Detroit

El Paso

Honolulu

(Copies to Offic

Checked)

[J Houston

[] Indienapolis

J Jackson

Jackson ville

Kansas Cily

Knoxville

Las Vegas

Little Rock

Los Angeles

Louisville

Memphis

Miami

Milwaukee

Minneapolis

Mobile

Newark

New Haven

New Orleans

New York City

Norfolk

Okiahoma City

Omaha

Philadelphia

Phoonix

Pittsburgh

Portland

Richmond

Sacramento

St. Louis

Salt Lake City

Sai Antonio

San Diego

San Francisco

San Juan

Savannan

Seattle

TO LEGAT:

Bern

Bonr:

Brasilia

Buenos Aires

Caracas

Flong Kong

London

Madrid

Manila

Mexico City

Ottawa

Paris

Rome

Tel Aviv

Tokyo

Springfield

Tamp a

Washirigton Field

Quantico

RE:

HEARINGS BEFORE THE SENATE

5000 Date December 4, 1975

SELECT COMMITTEE

Retention

For appropriate

[J For information

@ optional

• action

[ Surep, by -

The enclosed is for your information. If used in a future report, [ conceal all

sources, El paraphrase contents.

Enclosed are corrected pages from report of SA

dated

мини

Romork s:

For your assistance in responding to

local press inquiries, attached is a copy of

unedited excerpted renarks by Assistant to the

Director--Deputy Associate Director James B.

Adams while testifying before the Senate Select

Committee on 12/2/75, concerning anti-FBI

allegations made by Gary Rowe, former

FBI

informant.

65 657-5038-14

Enc/ (1)

Bulg

#3

NW 65994 Docld:3298979

agés

---

## Page 32

EXCERPTS OF REMARKS MADE BY

ASSISTANT TO THE DIRECTOR --

DEPUTY ASSOCIATE DIRECTOR JAMES B. ADAMS

TESTIFYING BEFORE THE

SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE

PERIAINING TO THE KU KLUX KLAN,

GARY ROWE, FORMER FBI INFORMANT, AND

PREVIOUS ATTEMPTS OF THE FBI

TO PREVENT VIOLENCE

DECEMBER 2, 1975

NW 65994 Docld:32989794 Page 32

---

## Page 33

QUESTION:

MR. ADAMS:

....You do use informants and do instruct them to

spread dissention among certain groups that they are

informing on, do you not?

We did when we had the COINTEL programs which were

discontinued in 1971, and I think the Klan is probably one

of the best examples of a situation where the law was

ineffective at the time. We heard the term, State's Rights

used much more than we hear today. We saw with the

Little Rock situation the President of the United States

sending in the troops pointing out the necessity to use

local law enforcement. We must have local law enforcement

use the troops only as a last resort. When you have a

situation like this where you do try to preserve the

respective roles in law enforcement, you have historical

problems.

With the Klan coming along, we had situations where

the FBI and the Federal Government was almost powerless

to act. We had local law enforcement officers in some

areas participating in Klan violence. The incidents

mentioned by Mr. Rowe--everyone of those he saw them from the

lowest level--the informant. He didn't see what action

was taken with that information as he pointed out during

his testimony. Our files show that this information was

reported to the police departments in every instance.

We also know that in certain instances the infor-

mation upon being received was not being acted upon. We

also disseminated simultaneously through letterhead

NW 65994 Docld:32989794 Page 33

---

## Page 34

QUESTION:

MR. ADAMS:

memorandum to the Department of Justice the problem.

And here we were--the FBI--in a position where we had no

authority in the absence of an instruction from the

Department of Justice to make an arrest. Section 241

and 242 don't cover it because you don't have evidence

of a conspiracy. It ultimately resulted in a situation

where the Department called in U. S. Marshals who do have

authority similar to local law enforcement officials.

So historically, in those days, we were just as

frustrated as anyone else was, that when we got information

from someone like Mr. Rowe--good information, reliable

information--and it was passed on to those who had the

responsibility to do something about it, it was not always

acted upon as he indicated.

In none of these cases, then, there was adequate

evidence of conspiracy to give you jurisdiction to act.

The Departmental rules at that time, and still do,

require Departmental approval where you have a conspiracy.

Under 241, it takes two or more persons acting together.

You can have a mob scene and you can have blacks and whites

belting each other, but unless you can show that those that

initiated the action acted in concert, in a conspiracy, you

have no violation.

Congress recognized this and it wasn't until 1968

that they came along and added Section 245 to the Civil

Rights Statute which added punitive measures against an

-2-

NW 65994 Docld:32989794 Page 34

---

## Page 35

QUESTION:

MR ADAMS:

QUESTION:

MR. ADAMS:

individual. There didn't have to be a conspiracy. This

was a problem that the whole country was grappling with--

the President of the United States, Attorneys General--we

were in a situation where we had rank lawlessness taking

place. As you know from the memorandum we sent you that

we sent to the Attorney General the accomplishments we were

able to obtain in preventing violence and in neutralizing

the Klan and that was one of the reasons.

....A local town meeting on a controversial social

issue might result in disruption. It might be by hecklers

rather than by those holding the meeting. Does this

mean that the Bureau should investigate all groups

organizing or participating in such meetings because

they may result in violent government disruption?

No sir, and we don't....

Isn't that how you justify spying on almost every

aspect of the peace movement?

No sir. When we monitor demonstrations, we monitor

demonstrations where we have an indication that the

demonstration itself is sponsored by a group that we have

an investigative interest in, a valid investigative

interest in, or where members of one of these groups are

participating where there is a potential that they might

change the peaceful nature of the demonstration.

This is our closest question of trying to draw

guidelines to avoid getting into an area of infringing

on the lst Amendment right, yet at the same time, being

-3 -

NW 65994 Docld:32989794 Page 35

---

## Page 36

aware of groups such as we have had in greater numbers

in the past than we do at the present time. We have had

periods where the demonstrations have been rather severe

and the courts have said that the FBI has the right,

and indeed the duty, to keep itself informed with respect

to the possible commission of crime. It is not obliged

to wear blinders until it may be too late for prevention.

Now that's a good statement if applied in a clear-cut

case.

QUESTION:

MR. WANNALI:

MR. ADAMS:

Our problem is where we have a demonstration and

we have to make a judgment call as to whether it is one

that clearly fits the criteria of enabling us to monitor

the activities. That's where I think most of our disagree-

ments fall.

In the Rowe Case, in the Rowe testimony that we just

heard, what was the rationale again for not intervening when

violence was known about. I know we have asked this several

times--I'm still having trouble understanding what the

rationale, Mr. Wannall, was in not intervening in the Rowe

situation when violence was known.

Senator Schweiker, Mr. Adams did address himself to

that and if you have no objections, I'll ask that he be

the one to answer the question.

The problem we had at the time, and it is the problem

today, we are an investigative agency; we do not have

police powers even like the U. S. Marshals do. The Marshals

-4 -

NW 65994 Docld:32989794 Page 36

---

## Page 37

:

since about 1795 I guess, or some period like that, had

authorities that almost border on what a sheriff has. We

are the investigative agency of the Department of Justice,

and during these times the Department of Justice had us

maintain the role of an investigative agency.

We were to report on activities. We furnished the

information to the local police who had an obligation to

act. We furnished it to the Department of Justice in those

areas where the local police did not act. It resulted

finally in the Attorney General sending 500 U. S. Marshals

down to guarantee the safety of people who were trying to

march in protest of their civil rights.

This was an extraordinary measure because it came at

a time of Civil Rights versus Federal Rights and yet there

was a breakdown in law enforcement in certain areas of the

country. This doesn't mean to indict all law enforcement

agencies in the south at the time either, because many of

them did act upon the information that was furnished to

them. But we have no authority to make an arrest on the

spot because we would not have had evidence that was a

conspiracy available. We could do absolutely nothing in

that regard. In Little Rock the decision was made, for

instance, that if any arrests need to be made, the Army

should make them. And next to the Army, the U. S. Marshals

should make them--not the FBI, even though we developed

the violations. We have over the years as you know at the

- 5 -

NW 65994 Docld:32989794 Page 37

---

## Page 38

:

QUESTION:

MR. ADAMS:

QUESTION:

MR ADAMS:

Time there were many questions raised. Why doesn't the

FBI stop this? Why don't you do something about it? Well,

we took the other route and effectively destroyed the Klan

as far as committing acts of violence and, of course, we

exceeded statutory guidelines in that area.

What would be wrong, just following up on your point

there, Mr. Adams, with setting up a program since it is

obvious to me that a lot of our informers are going to

have preknowledge of violence of using U. S. Marshals on

some kind of long-range basis to prevent violence?

We do. We have them in Boston in connection with

the busing incident. We are investigating the violations

under the Civil Rights Act, but the Marshals are in

Boston. They are in Louisville, I believe, at the same

time and this is the approach that the Federal Government

finally recognized.

On an immediate and fairly contemporary basis that

kind of help can be sought instantly as opposed to waiting

till it gets to a Boston state. I realize a departure from

the past and not saying it isn't, but it seems to me we need

a better remedy than we have.

Well, fortunately we are at a time where conditions have

subsided in the country even from the 60's and the 70's, or

50's and 60's. We report to the Department of Justice on

potential trouble spots around the country as we learn of them

so that the Department will be aware of them. The planning

-6-

NW 65994 Docld:32989794 Page 38

---

## Page 39

:

QUESTION:

for Boston, for instance, took place a year in advance, with

state officials, city officials, the Department of Justice

and the FBI sitting down together saying "How are we going to

protect the situation in Boston"? I think we have learned a

lot from the days back in the early 60's. But, the Government

had no mechanics which protected people at that time.

Next I would like to ask, back in 1965, I guess during

the height of the effort to destroy the Klans as you put it

a few moments ago, I believe the FBI has released figures that

we had something like 2,000 informers of some kind or another

infiltrating the Klan out of roughly 10,000 estimated member-

ship.

MR. ADAMS:

QUESTION:

MR. ADAMS:

That's right.

I believe these are FBI figures or estimates. That would

mean that I out of every 5 members of the Klan at that point

was an informant paid by the Government and I believe the

figure goes on to indicate that 70 percent of the new members

in the Klan that year were FBI informants. Isn't that an

awful overwhelming quantity of people to put in an effort such

as that? I'm not criticizing that we shouldn't have informants

in the Klan and know what is going on to revert violence but it

just seems to me that the tail is sort of wagging the dog. For

example today we supposedly have only 1594 total informants,

both domestic informants and potential informants. Yet, here

we have 2,000 in just the Klan alone.

Well, this number of 2,000 did include all racial matters

and informants at that particular time and I think the figures

NW 65994 Docld:32989794 Page 39

-7-

---

## Page 40

:

QUESTION:

MR. ADAMS:

we tried to reconstruct as to the actual number of Klan

informants in relaton to Klan members was around 6 percent, I

think after we had read some of the testimony on it. Isn't that

right, Bill? Now the problem we had on the Klan is the Klan

had a group called the Action Group. This was the group if you

remember from Mr. Rowe's testimony that he was left out of in

the beginning. He attended the open meetings and heard all the

hoorahs and this type of information but he never knew what was

going on because each one had an Action Group that went out and

considered themselves in the missionary field. Theirs was the

violence. In order to penetrate those you have to direct as

many informants as you possibly can against it. Bear in mind

that I think the newspapers, the President, Congress, everyone,

was concerned about the murder of the three civil rights

workers, the Lemul Penn case, the Violet Liuzzo case, the

bombings of the church in Birmingham. We were faced with one

tremendous problem at that time.

I acknowledge that.

Our only approach was through informants. Through the

use of informants we solved these cases.

The ones that were

solved. There were some of the bombing cases we never solved.

They're extremely difficult, but, these informants as we told

the Attorney General and as we told the President, we moved

informants like Mr. Rowe up to the top leadership. He was the

bodyguard to the head man. He was in a position where he

could see that this could continue forever unless we could

NW 65994 Docld:32989794 Page 40

-8-

---

## Page 41

:

QUESTION:

MR ADAMS:

QUESTION:

create enough disruption that these members will realize that

if I go out and murder three civil rights, even though the

Sheriff and other law enforcement officers are in on it, if

that were the case, and in some of that was the case, that I

will be caught, and that's what we did, and that's why violence

stopped because the Klan was insecure and just like you say

20 percent, they thought 50 percent of their members ultimately

were klan members, and they didn't dare engage in these acts of

violence because they knew they couldn't control the conspiracy

any longer.

I just have one quick question. Is it correct that in

1971 we were using around 6500 informers for a black ghetto

situation?

I'm not sure if that's the year. We did have a year

where we had a number like that of around 6000 and that was

the time when the cities were being burned. Detroit, Washington,

areas like this, we were given a mandate to know what the

situation is, where is violence going to break out next. They

weren't informants like an individual that is penetrating an

organization. They were listening posts in the community that

would help tell us that we have another group here that is

getting ready to start another fire fight or something.

... Without going into that subject further of course we

have had considerable evidence this morning where no attempt

was made to prevent crime when you had information that it

was going to occur. I am sure there were instances where

you have.

NW 65994 Docld:32989794 Page 41

- 9 -

---

## Page 42

:

MR. ADAMS:

QUESTION:

MR. ADAMS:

QUESTION:

MR. ADAMS:

QUESTION:

MR. ADAMS:

QUESTION:

MR. ADAMS:

QUESTION:

MR. ADAMS:

QUESTION:

We disseminated every single item which he reported to us.

Io a police department which you knew was an accomplice to

the crime.

Not necessarily knew.

Your informant told you that, hadn't he?

The informant is on one level. We have other informants

and we have other information.

You were aware that he had worked with certain members of

the Birmingham Police in order...

That's right. He furnished many other instances also.

So you really weren't doing a whole lot to prevent that

incident by telling the people who were already a part of it.

We were doing everything we could lawfully do at the

time and finally the situation was corrected when the Department

agreeing that we had no further jurisdiction, sent the U.s.

Marshals down to perform certain law enforcement functions.

... This brings up the point as to what kind of control

you can exercise over this kind of informant and to this

kind of organization and to what extent an effort is made to

prevent these informants from engaging in the kind of thing

that you were supposedly trying to prevent.

A good example of this was MI. Rowe who became active in

an Action Group and we told him to get out or we were no longer

using him as an informant in spite of the information he had

furnished in the past. We have cases, Senator where we have had

But you also told him to participate in violent activities

NW 65994 Docld:32989794 Page 42

-10-

---

## Page 43

MR. ADAMS:

QUESTION:

MR. ADAMS:

QUESTION:

MR. ADAMS:

QUESTION:

We did not tell him to participate in violent activities.

That's what he said.

I know that's what he says, but that's what lawsuits

are all about is that there are two sides to issues and our

Agent handlers have advised us, and I believe have advised your

staff members, that at no time did they advise him to engage

in violence.

Just to do what was necessary to get the information.

I do not think they made any such statement to him

along that line either and we have informants who have gotten

involved in the violation of a law and we have immediately

converted their status from an informant to the subject and

have prosecuted I would say off hand, I can think of around

20 informants that we have prosecuted for violating the laws

once it came to our attention and even to show you our policy

of disseminating information on violence in this case during

the review of the matter the Agents have told me that they

found one case where an Agent had been working 24 hours a

day and he was a little late in disseminating the information

to the police department. No violence occurred but it showed

up in a file review and he was censured for his delay in

properly notifying local authorities. So we not only

have a policy, I feel that we do follow reasonable safeguards

in order to carry it out, including periodic review of all

informant files.

Mr. Rowe's statement is substantiated to some extent with

an acknowledgment by the Agent in Charge that if he were going

NW 65994 Docld:32989794 Page 43

-11-

---

## Page 44

:

MR. ADAMS:

QUESTION:

QUESTION:

MR. ADAMS:

to be a Klansman and he happened to be with someone and they

decided to do something, he couldn't be an angel. These are

words of the Agent. And be a good informant. He wouldn't

take the lead but the implication is that he would have

to go along or would have to be involved if he was going

to maintain his liability as a ---

There is no question that an informant at times will

have to be present during demonstrations, riots, fistfights

that take place but I believe his statement was to the

effect that, and I was sitting in the back of the room and I do

not recall it exactly, but that some of them were beat with

chains and I did not hear whether he said he beat someone with

a chain or not but I rather doubt that he did, because it is

one thing being present, it is another thing taking an

active part in a criminal action.

It's true. He was close enought to get his throat cut

apparently.

How does the collection of information about an

individual's personal life, social, sex life and becoming

involved in that sex life or social life is a requirement for

law enforcement or crime prevention.

Our Agent handlers have advised us on Mr. Rowe that

they gave him no such instruction, they had no such knowledge

concerning it and I can't see where it would be of any

value whatsoever.

NW 65994 Docld:32989794 Page 44

-12-

---

## Page 45

QUESTION:

MR. ADAMS:

You don't know of any such case where these instructions

were given to an Agent or an informant?

To get involved in sexual activity? No Sir.

-13-

| NW 65994 Docld:32989794 Page 45

---

## Page 46

NR 05D WA PLAIN

11:32PM NITEL 12/10/75 GHS

TO ALL SACS

FROM DIRECTOR

is the

80-59*

DIRECIOR'S APPEARANCE BEFORE SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE

ON INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES, DECEMBÉR 18, 1975

A COPY OF THE STATEMENT I DELIVERED BEFORE THE SENATE

SELECT COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE ACIIVITIES TODAY HAS BEEN

SENI ALL OFFICES. FOR YOUR INFORMATION, THERE FOLLOWS A

SYNOPSIZED ACCOUNT.OF THE MAJOR ARÉAS OF THE COMMIITEE'S

QUESTIONS TO ME,. TOGETHER WITH MY RESPONSES:

(1) REGARDING FBI INFORMANIS, QUESTIONS WERE ASKED

WHETHER COURT APPROVAL SHOULD BE REQUIRED FOR FBI USE OF

INFORMANIS IN INVESTIGATIONS OF ORGANIZATIONS (MY RESPONSE

WAS THAT THE CONTROLS WHICH EXIST TODAY OVER USE OF INFORMANIS

ARE SATISFACIORY; HOW CAN FBI KEEP INFORMANIS OPERATING

WITHIN PROPER LIMITS SO THEY DO NOT INVADE RIGHIS OF OTHER

PERSONS (MY RESPONSE WAS THAT RELIANCE MUST BE PLACED ON THE

INDIVIDUAL AGENTS HANDLING INFORMANIS AND THOSE SUPERVISING

THE AGENIS ' WORK, THAT INFORMANIS WHO

VIOLATE THE LAW CAN BE

602.5038-15

SEARCHED

SERIALIZED

_INDEXED

_ FILED

/DEC 10/1975

FBI -ST. LOUIS

ASAG

1I3.

NW 65994 Docld:32989794 Page 46

#5

s.T. Solit

---

## Page 47

PAGE TWO

PROSECUTED -- AS CAN ANY AGENT WHO COUNSELS AN INFORMANT TO

COMMIT VIOLATIONS); AND DID FORMER KLAN INFORMANI GARY ROWE

TESTIFY ACCURATELY WHEN HE TOLD THE COMMITTEE ON DECEMBER 2

THAT HE INFORMED FBI OF PLANNED ACIS ÖF VIOLENCE BUT FBI

DID NOT ACT TO PREVENT THEM MY RESPONSE WAS THAT ROWE'S

TESTIMONY WAS NOT ACCURATE).

(2) IN RESPONSE TO QUESTIONS REGARDING IMPROPER

CONDUCI BY FBI EMPLOYEES, I STATED THAI ALLEGED VIOLATIONS OF

LAW BY FBI PERSONNEL

SHOULD. BE INVESTIGATED BY THE FBI OR

OTHER APPROPRIATE

I AGENCY; THAI THE INSPECTION DIVISION HAS

CONDUCTED INQUIRIES REGARDING ALLEGATIONS ÓF. MISCONDUCI;

THAI AN OFFICE OF PROFESSIONAL RESPONSIBILITY HAS JUST

•BEEN ESTABLISHED IN THE JUSTICE DEPARIMENI, AND WE WILL ADVISE,

THAI OFFICE OF OUR MAJOR INVESTIGATIONS OF DEPARIMENIAL PERSONNEL,

INCLUDING FBI EMPLOYEES, FOR ALLEGED VIOLATIONS OF LAW, REGULATIONS,

OR STANDARDS OF CONDUCT; THAI I WOULD RESERVE COMMENT

REGARDING POSSIBLE CREATION OF A NATIONAL INSPECTOR GENERAL

IO. CONSIDER MAITERS OF MISCONDUCI BY EMPLOYEES OF ANY FEDERAL

AGENCY.

NW 65994 Docld:32989794 Page 47 •

---

## Page 48

PAGE THREE

(3). IN RESPONSE IO QUESTIONS CONCERNING HARASSMENI OF

MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR., I STATED IHAI THE PERSONS WHO ISSUED!

, THE ORDERS WHICH RESULTED IN SUCH HARASSMENT SHOULD FACE THE

RESPONSIBILITY FOR IT, RATHER THAN THOSE UNDER THEM WHO CARRIED

OUT SUCH ORDERS IN GOOD FAITH; IHAI THE FBI STILL HAS RECORDINGS

RESULTING FROM ELECIRONIC SURVEILLANCES OF KING; THAI WE RETAIN

RECORDINGS FOR TEN YEARS BUT WE ALSO HAVE AGREED TO, A REQUEST

FROM THE SENATE NOI TO DESTROY INFORMATION IN OUR FILES WHILE

CONGRESSIONAL INQUIRIES ARE BEING CONDUCIED: THAT I HAVE NOI

REVIEWED THE KING TAPES; THAI IF. THE COMMITTEE REQUESTED TO

REVIEW THE KING TAPES, THE REQUEST WOULD BE REFERRED TO THE

ATTORNEY GENERAL.

(4) IN RESPONSE TO QUESTIONS REGARDING WHETHER IT WOULD

BE ADVANTAGEOUS TO SEPARATE THE FBI CRIMINAL, INVESTIGATIVE

RESPONSIBILITIES AND OUR INTELLIGENCE FUNCTIONS, I STATED.

IHAT WE HAVE FOUND THE TWO AREAS TO. BE COMPATIBLE, AND I

FEEL THE FBI IS DOING A SPLENDID JOB IN BOTH AREAS:

- (5) IN RESPONSE IÓ QUESTIONS CONCERNING THE ADEQUACY

OF CONTROLS ON. REQUEST'S FROM THE WHITE HOUSE AND FROM OTHER.

GOVERNMENT AGENCIES. FOR FBI INVESTIGATIONS OR FOR INFORMATION

NW 65994 Docld:32989794 Page 48

---

## Page 49

PACE FOUR

PRO:: OUR FILES, I STATED THAT WHEW SUCH REQUESTS ARE "ARE

ORALLY, THEY SHOULD BE CONFIRMED IN WRITING; THAT WE WOULD

VELCOME AUY LEGISLATIVE CUIDELINES THE CONGRESS FEELS WOULD

PROTECT THE FBI FROM THE POSSIBILITY OF PAPTISA" MISUSE•

A FULL TRANSCRIPT OF THE QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS WILL BF

FURNISHED TO EACH OFFICE AS SOOM AS IT IS AVAILABLE.

ALL LEGATS ADVISED SEPARATELY.

END

PLS RETURN TO TALK

UA

NW 65994 bOcld:32989794 Page 49

---

## Page 50

Routing Slip

0-7 (Rev. 12-1?

TO: SAC:

= Albany

Albuquerque

‹ Mexandria

Anchorage

Atlanta

Baltimore

Birmingham

Boston

Buffalo

Butte

Charlotte

Chicago

Cincinnati

Cleveland

Columbia

Dallas

Denver

Detroit

El Paso

Honolulu

(Copies to Offices Checked)

anal

Houston

Indianapolis

Jackson

Jacksonville

Kansas City

Knoxville

Las Vegas

Little Rock

Los Angeles

Louisville

Memphis

Miami

Mil waukee

Minneapolis

Mobile

Newark

New Haven

! New Orleans

] New York City

1 Norfolk

Oklahoma City

Omaha

Philadelphia

Phoenix

Pittsburgh

Portland

Richmond

Sacramento

St. Louis

Salt Lake Cily

Six Antonio

San Diego

San Francisco

San Juau

Savannah

Seattle

Springfield

TO LEGAT:

1 Beirut

Bem

Bonn

Brasilia

Buenos Aires

Caracas

Hong Kong

London

Madrid

Manila

Mexico City

Ottawa

Paris

Rome

Singapore-

Tel Aviv

Tokyo

Tamp a

Washington Field

7-503

Lan 3%

RE:

DIRECTOR'S APPEARANCE

Date

1/5/76

BEFORE SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE

ON INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

DECEMBER 10, 1975

62-5038-16

SEARCHED? Ax/INDEXED.

SERIALIZED.

SPILED.,

JAN

' 1976

future report,

Itt

Retention

For appropriate

Is For information =7 optional

C action

= The chelosed is for your information. If used in

sources, Ca) paraphrase contents.

I Enclosed are corrected pages from report of SA

dated

Remarks: By routing slip dated 12/30/75 and

captioned as above, all SACs and Legats were

furnished a copy of the transcript of Mr.

Kelley's 12/10/75 appearance before the

Senate Select Committee on Intelligence

Activities.

Although the data contained in

the transcript may be made available to news

media representatives, used in answering

questions received from citizens, and other-

wise treated as being of a public-source nature,

the transcript itself should not be reproduced

for, or given to, anyone outside the FBI.

Bufile

ASACOI

Urtile

NW 65994 Docld:32989794 Page 50F

---

## Page 51

FD-350 (Rev. 7-16-63)

(Mount Clipping in Space Below)

Eagleton urges new. way

to watch over CIA, FBI

By EDWARD W. O'BRIEN.

expressed to him about like

Globe Democrat

this: "Is it absolutely neces-

given

Washington Bureau Chief

sary that the matter drag on

United States." The Senate

and on?:Enough is-enough."

committee report on alleged

WASHINGTON - Senate

As an

example of how

CIA assassination plots had

and House committees should

proposed rotating member:

tremendous attention in Eu-

end their intelligence investi-

ships on a new supervisory

rope generally, he said.

gations "as expeditiously as

committee would work,

THE HEARINGS "in-

possible" and recommend a

Eagleton said there could be

creased the hatred of the

new method of permanent

15 Senate and House mem-

CIA" in Greece, he said,

=i

congressional supervision of

bers, with one-third changing

because of resentment there !

the CIA

and the FBI, Sen.

every two years,

Thomas F. Eagleton; D-Mo:,

THIS IDEA, he conceded,

since 1967 over a widely.held

relief that the CIA was r

says.

does challenge the seniority

/olved in bringing the mil

His own preliminary pro-

system in Congress; where a

tary regime to power.

posal is for a new joint

member remains on a com-

•Senate-House committee with

Eagleton arrived in Athens

mittee throughout his con-

rotäting members "to make

gressional service and moves

Dec. 26, three days after the

sure the committee does not

assassination of Richard S.

up in rank over the years.

become a captive" of the

Welch, CIA station chief, Be-

But the need for congres-

agencies it's overseeing,

sional supervision. is so impor-

Eagleton said Tuesday.

tant, he said, as to justity a

"WE HAVE more than

break with tradition and a

enough for a hearing record,"

• mechanism

for a frequent

clothes security forces

he said. "To keep going inder-

"infusion of fresh talent" in

throughout his stay in Gréece

initely would be counterpro-

keeping a watch on CIA and

and Cyprus.

• ductive."

FBI activities.

The Senate

•. Eagleton, back from a two-

Intelligence,

ered

great friend of

week trip to Rome,

Athens.

Committee is due to expire

Greece." The CIA career man

Feb: 29, and the House com-

"was very much admired" by

and Cyprus, said government

mittee Jan. 31, Eagleton said

all Americans at the embas-

leaders in

all those places

"brought up the CIA" and

he would be willing to support

,Sy, he said,

and they are

generally "expressed concern

only a limited extension to

bitter about the Athens news-

about how much longer the

allow the Senate committee to

paper that published the

wind up its work.

names and home addresses.of

shearings will go."

Eagleton said he was told

Welch and six other CIA

Their concern, he said; was

the CIA hearings hadybeen

agents.

(Indicate page, name of

newspaper, city and state.)

P6B, St. Louis Globe-

Democrat, St.

• Louis,

Missouri

-

-

Date:

Edition:

Author:

Editor:

Title:

1/7/76

Character:

or

Classification:

Submitting Office

SL

one laya good 5038-17

94-297

SEARCHED

SERIALL QUAIL:

...

vis

"NW 05994-Doeld:2989794-Page-51=

---

## Page 52

FD-350 (Rev. 7-16-63)

• (Mount Clipping in Space Below)

House intelligence group OKs

report, goes out of business

_It.

By WALTER PINCUS

UNDER THAT system;

tive Branch oversight on cov-

Globe-Democrat-Washington

three House committees re-

ert and clandestine activities.

(Indicate page, name of

Post News Service

ceived notification of signifi-

Creating, an inspectori

newspaper, city and state.)

WASHINGTON - The con-

cant CIA covert operations

general for intelligence to:

but only the House Armed

investigate possible miscon-

troversial 13-man House intel-

ligence committee goes out of

Services and Appropriations

duct in all agencies with

business Wednesday with the

committees had authority to

intelligence operations;

future unclear for its primary

• explore other intelligence

-ABOLISHING the De-!

recommendation - that the

budgets or operations.

fense Intelligence Agency and:

P4A, St. Louis Globe-

Democrat, St. Louis,

Missouri

* House establish a permanemt

*The House has got to be

transfering its functions to the

oversight committee on intel-

pushed into setting up.a new

clA and an assistant secre

ligence:

committee,"

the ranking

tary of defense for intelli-

At the committee's final

Democrat said, "I expect: the

gence.

working session: Tuesday, the

speaker will wait until the

"_Creating a director of'

members approved 9-4 a

Senate acts:"

- package of 20 recommenda-

In the Senate, a proposal

tions intended: to make minor

establishing a new intelli-

and major changes in the

gence committee for that

the entire foreign intelligency

organization and.operation.of

body has already been the

community, including the

Ine U.s, toreign and domestic

subject of hearings, and legis-

CIA.

lation is expected to be draft-

-Enacting legislation to:

intelligence community.,

ed by March 1 the day the

define the electronic monitor

CHAIRMAN Otis G. Pike.

D-N.Y., said at the conclusion

of the meeting that he did not

Senate intelligence commut of -Ting role of the National Secur."

is scheduled to go out of

Pbusiness.'

know "the future of the recom

• Without a successor com-

mendations…. but I hope the

mittee, the recommendations

American citizens.

major ones pass."

.

American citizen the case 2h

of the House committee will

Pike said Tuesday he had

• be-distributed to various leg-

no plans to introduce legisla-

islative committees.

tion for establishing a perma-

ALONG WITH establishing

"nent intelligence oversight

an oversight committee, the

committee,

Pike committee's major rec-,

Rather, he intends to file

ommendations include:

the recommendations with the

-Reporting covert CIA op.

House clerk Wednesday.

erations to the new intelli-

Date:

Edition:

Author:

Editor:

Title:

Thereafter, he said; it will be

gence committee within 48

up to the leadership.

hours of initial approval-along

P' A ranking committee Dem-

with the written support docu

ocrat, who asked not to De

ments.

named; said,

We're going

_Establishing a subcom-

back to the old system of

mittee of the National: Securl;

oversight.

ty: Council to provide Execu

Character:

or

Classification:

Submitting Office:

Being (475030n50

SEARCHED

SERIALIZER, CUTILES.

NW 65994 Docld:32989794 Page 52

---

## Page 53

FD-350 (Rev. 11-11-75)

(Mount Clipping in Space Below)

Welcome End of House CIA Panel

The House Intelligence Committee died

In actual practice, the committeets securl-

& Wednesday. May it rest in peace.

ty was as tight as a-sieve; One finding after

In the relatively short span of the special

another was-leaked to the news media,

panel's existence, it set a track record for

including, intormation that crippled the CIA?s

recklessness that may neyer be broken, Its.

operations.. The committee. appeared.to take

scattergun: approach-to investigating the

the high-handed position that it was the sole

activities of United States intelligence-gath-

ering agencies earned the 13-member com

judge of classified documents and what.

material should be made public.

mittee a reputation for shooting first and:

investigating laters

• This never has been and never can.be the

"If there was anything objective about the

prerogative of Congress, The irresponsible

overbearing tactics of the congressional.

and unintelligent conduct of the House

probers, it was seldom shown, Created a

Intelligence Committee over the last year.

year ago with a deadline of this February to

has proven that conclusively

report its findings; the committee appeared:

If the House is intent on setting up a

bent more on a vendetta against intelligence

agencies. than on delivering constructive

permanent oversight, committee on intelli-

gence matters, it should be one: pledged to:

criticism: arrived at through a fair analysis.

improving and supporting national security

¿ The select House committee's specific

rather than undermining it. The same goes

purpose was to determine whether all foreign

for the Senate.

jand domestic Central Intelligence Agercy;

Federal Bureau of Investigation and other

Public interest demands that intelligence

U:S. intelligence operations are needed and

gathering functions be handled intelligently,

how to prevent alleged spying on citizens.in

and, not conducted like a sideshow for thel

the future. Supposedly, there were safe-

entertainment-ot Congress and the furthering

guards against.news leaks.from the commit.

of-political ambitions. The ill-advised House

ee of classified secretsIntelligence Committee will not be missed

P14A, St. Louis

Globe-Democrat,

St. Louis, Mo.

Date:

Edition:

Author:

Editor:

Tille:

2/13/76

Character:

or

Classifieatich4= 297

Submitting Office: SI

W7 Being Investigated

42-5038-19

NW 65994 Docld:32989794 Page 53

---

## Page 54

FD-350 (Rav. 7-16-53)

(Mount Clipping In Space Below)

Furor Om Schorr

RoleImLeak

Representative Samuel S. Stratton (Dem.),/

By RICHARD DUDMAN

Chief Washingson Correspondent

! nove to have a respiten ray ta present

hoped to have a resolution ready to present

on the House floor before the end of thist

WASHINGTON - Daniel Schorr, the

week to hold Schorr in contempt.

CBS News correspondent who made

He said he planned to ask for an hour's

public a secret congressional report last

time under "privilege of the House" proce-

week, has become the center of a

dure, to propose that a special committee

swirling debate over information leaks,

study the facts and recommended whether

the full House should consider contempt

journalistic ethics and freedom of the

charges.

press.

Iwo members of Congress want to

which he said ";

ich he said tea inue of people ere pt, it

prosecute him. The New York Times

jail for a couple of days for trying to bribe a

castigated him in an editorial, charging

member of Congress."

that he "did responsible journalism a

SENATOR ROBERT TAFT IR. (Rep.),

• Ohio, says contempt charges are not tough

disservice" by

"making the report

enough. He has said that the Department of

available for cash sale."

Justice should consider criminal prosecution

and that, if existing law does not cover the

The furor over the leak has overshadowed

the substance of the repost so much that some

case, Congress should pass new legislation

that does cover it.

cynics suspect the Ford Administration of

The facts of the case were hard to find atl

i promoting the dispute as a distraction.

'first. Schorr denied he had anything to do!

As published in the New York Village

with the publication of the document. Others;

: Voice, the report accused the Central Intelli

¿gence Agency of repeated intelligence fail-

mentord sessing vote serico no com-

ures in Vietnam, in the 1973 Arab-Israeii

Now, however, everyone is talking freely

war, in the United States global military

and the main thing that remains unknown is

alert against the Soviet Union at the end of

where Schorr got the report.

that war, in the 1974 Turkish invasion of

The CBS correspondent, whose toughness

Cyprus and in the 1971 coup.in Portugal.

and energy have produced many exclusives,

IT ACCUSED Secretary of State Henry A.

had been covering the intelligence investiga.

Kissinger of selling out the Kurdish rebellion

tions for months. He obtained a copy of the

last year, with the loss of thousards of lives,

report before the House voted Jan. 29 not to

in a deal between Tran and Iraq. Il charged

make it public.

him with a "passion for secrecy" in efforts

Schorr. as well as reporters for the New

to "control dissemination and analysis of

York Times, the Washington Post and other

data" inside the bureaucracy, and with

news organizations, had been reporting infor-

making "comments... at variance with the

mation from the report, but it was not clear

facts" abrut the handling of suspected Soviet

whether any of them had obtained a copy.

violations of the nuclear strategic arins

Schorr, however, displayed the cover of

accords of 1972.

the report on the air, and word circulated

Representative Otis G. Pike (Dem.), New

that he had one.

York, chairman of the House Select Commit-

SEVERAL OWIICR news organizations

tee on Inteligence, has said he suspected

that the Central Intelligence Agency leaked

, became Interested, including the Los Angeles

limcs and toe washingion Post. So did

the report to discredit the committee. Presi-

dent Gerald R. Ford told a press confcrence

last night that it had been leaked by a

member of congress or a House stafi

member.

Investigations inte the source of the leak

• Crarles Morgin, Washingion representative

of the American Civil Liberties Umon, who,

last year led the way in prying inte the

mustery of the cit's treasure chip, the

Glumar Exploer.

and the continuing dispute over Schorr's

34 Page, 39

(Indicate page, name of

newspaper, city and state.)

3C

st. Louis Globe

Democrat, St.

Louis, Missouri

St. Louis Post

Dispatch,

st.

LOUIS, MISSOUT I

Date:

Edition:

Author:

2/18/76

3% Final

Richard Dudman

Edilor:

Title:

DANIEL SCHORR

Select Committee on

Intelligence Activi-

Character:

ties/

Classification: SL 94-297

Submitting Office: St. Louis

| Being investigried

5038-20

- 29

Fad, Ouroni

rai

---

## Page 55

and ma ties

Daniel Schorr

"I didn't want a crusaders cause"

NW 65994 Docld:32989794 Page 55

---

## Page 56

Morgan told the Post-Dispatch:

got a

*telephone call from someone who told me

Schorr had the report. I called Schorr, and

he said he did. He said he was looking for a

publisher. He wanted something respectable

— not the National Lawyers' Guild. There

was no question that Schorr had in mind

making some money for some First Amend-

ment cause."

One or the other thought of the Reporters'

Committee for Freedom of the Press, a group

formed during the Nixon Administration to

protect reporters against government sur-

veillance and retaliation.

Schorr confirms this account generally. He

told the Post-Dispatch he had bsen trying to

decide how to get the full report published.

This was after he had used the high points in

his CBS broadcasts. The idea of approaching

the Reporters' Committee had emerged in

• conversations with several other persons, he

"At that point I got a call from Morgan," A

'Schorr said. "He told me, 'Look, we'd like to

publish that report of yours. I saw you with it

bon TV. You do have it, don't you?"

SCHORR RECALLS that he acknowledged

having a copy, complimented Morgan on his

timing, and said all he wanted from the

ACLU was the name of a publisher.

"I didn't want a crusader's cause," Schorr

told the Post-Dispatch. "I said all I wanted

was to do it as a simple, casua:, I-ca-do-it-

no-other-way thing. I said I wanted to make

sure that whatever money came out of it

would go, not to the ACLU, but to something

more specifically on freedom of the press."

Morgan telephoned Jack Nelson, Washing-

ton bureau chief of the Los Angeles Times, a

close friend and one of the six unpaid

trustees of the Reporters' Committee.

Nelsow: was enthusiastic about the prospect

, of getting some money for the committee,

which operates on a shoestring and is aiways

seeking funds to meet expenses of its small

office staff and its mailings of reports or

developments involving freedom of the press:

Nelson asked his editors at the Los

Angeles Times if they wanted tu run the text

of the report. He was told they would have to

see it first and then decide what to do with it.

Ey that time, other trustees were geiting

into the sitation. Jack C. Landau of the

Newhouse News Service and Fred Graham

of CBS News, after a telephone poll of the

trustees, put Schorr in touch with a New

York lawyer who worked as a publishing

agent.

ANOTHER NEWS EXECUTIVE who be-

corne interested in the matter was Marry

Resenteld, assictant managing editor for

natonal affairs at the Washington Post. He,

100, knew about Schorr's reports on the air

and suspected Schorr might have a cops.

Rasenfeld told the Post-Dispatch: ST-calicos

him and asked whether he had a copy. He

said yes. I asked if he was through with it.

He indicated he was. i said I wanted to see

the report. He said, 'I'll write you a series of

articles.' I said, 'No, I want to let my prople

"I'm going into this detail because I don't

want it to seern that Schorr was peddling the

report for money. He wasn't."

Rosenfeld recalled that Schorr said he

would have to clear any such arrangement

with CBS News. But Rosenfeld said his

superiors, executive editor Benjamin C.

Bradlee and managing editor Howard Si-

mons objected to the idea on the ground that

the Washington Post would not want to

reciprocate and give any of its documents to

CBS. Rosenfeld said he called Schorr the

rext morning and withdrew the proposal.

Their conversation would have remained

confidential, Rosenfeld says, had it not becn

for another conversation a few days later

between Schorr and a Washington Post

Stern says he has three pages of typed

notes to prove that Schorr denied repeatedly

that he had provided the report to the Village

Voice, directly or indirectly.

STERN SAYS he already knew that Schor

had furnished the report to the newspaper.

Stern wrote a story reporting Schorr's denial

•but stating that "other sources familiar with

"the hush-hush developments of the story say

that CBS correspondent Daniel Schorr, who

covered the intelligence committee for his

network, was instrumental in transmitting

the report" to the Village Voice.

Schorr says that the New York lawyer,

whom he refuses to name, found several

paperback book publishers leery of the

proposal. He said some of them hoped a joint

publication with a newspaper might be

Eventually, however, the lawyer came up

with an offer from Clay Felker, publisher of

New York magazine and the Village Voice.

Schorr, dealing through the lawyer, says he

• set three conditions-that the report be

published in full, that Felker give some

money to the Reporters' Committee, and that

Felker premise confidentiality.

Schorr explained that he thought at that

time that more than one copy might be ai

large. He said if his name was kept out of it,

that would establish an "additional buffer"

to protect his source.

Felker says, howaver, that he had not made

any contribution and does not intend to make

"No money chanded hands" he told the

Fost-Dispatch.

"Scherr nover asked for auy

money, nor did we ever ofter him any

money. At ore feint when we wer: tlinking

of purting out a special issue we cont riple-

eil the reggildlity of making a contribution to

a civili ortiis orcanization."

NW 65994 Docld:32989794 Page 56

MPELKER SAID he had not figured how

much it had cost the Voice to publisti most of

the decument as a 24-page lift-out section of

the regular weckly newspaper. He said the

extra cost was roughly the same as the cost

of a normal issue of the Voice

Felker, as most of those interviewed about

the story of the Pike papers, expressed

irritation over the editorial last Sunday in

the New York Times. It was headed, "Selling

Secrets." It stated that when Schorr passed

the report to the Voice, there was "an

arrangement under which money passed

from the Voice to the Reporters' Committee

for Freedom of the Press, a group dedicated

to defense of the First Amendment.

The Times said: "To put it bluntly, while

reporters and news organizations have right-

ly declined to accept the Government's

judgment on what documents it is appropri-

ate to publish, it is flatly wrong for reporters

to be invoived in any commercial traffic in

such documents."

Felker attributed the Times's attitude to

the unwelcome competition from the Voice.

"The Times is stunned," he said.

"The

Voice's circulation is going up in New York.

and theirs is going down. They can't stand it.

The Times is suffering these days."

On publication of the document, he said:

"We are in the business of finding the news

and printing it. Readers don't care where wa

get it. All they want to know is, is it relevan.

and is it authentic. The President convincec

everyone it's authentic."

WILLIAM SMALL, vice president of CBS'

News, was asked by the Past-Dispatch

whether CBS objected to a reposter's furnish.

ing material to another nevis organization.

"Dan indeed made everything available to

us," Small replied. "Nothing, was left in the

report of any consequence. That is, nothing

wag leit that we would have done a special

piece about.

"He faces potential legal action. We will

back him legally so that neither the White

House nor Congress nor anybody else can

compel him to reveal his source.

"There are complicated ethical and phile-

sophical considerations - heals within

wheels — but to rap him on the knuckles - 1

don't want someone in Congress getting up

and saying that his own people have repri-

manded him or disavowed him.

Schorr says he objects to the time the

controversy has taken from his work as a

reporter and to the tact that every conversa-

tion with a news source now starts miti s

snicker.

"I have not run into any obstacles, inside

or outside my organizatios, in my work — 3r

least not yet," he said

Win did le expose from Repesentaur

Strain's contempt threats

•: "Wouldn't it Lence. ar ai"

atiainder in our hist.r

---

## Page 57

1'U-JoUlIev. 11-11-15)

(Mount Clipping in Space Below)

editorials

Lessons from Experience?

dealer, ci am state.)

""We have learned many lessons from this

hiding its use further from public view.

experience, but we must not become obsessed

In those terms, how would all of Mr. Ford's

2B (Editorial Page

with the deeds of the past."

new boards and guidelines prevent some

That was President Ford's text for propos-

future Executive from using the intelligence

ing reforms of the intelligence community, and

branch for arbitrary personal, political or

ST. LOUIS

POST-DISPATCH

on the basis of his proposals it must be asked

foreign policy ends? How does tightening

just what has been learned from experience,

Executive management of the system protect

ST. LOUIS, MO.

and how would the Ford program prevent

the nation against a reoccurrence of such

repetition of those deeds of the past with which

deeds of the past as spying on Americans,

he is obviously not obsessed?

fomenting an invasion here and an insurrection

Mr. Ford's proposals fall into three sections.

there and a war elsewhere, buying politicians

First there is a new executive order restricting

in one country or trying to overthrow an

the Central Intelligence Agency and other

eiected government in another or supplying

foreign intelligence operations as to spying on

mercenaries in a third?

Americans in this country. Second, there is

Other presidents have used intelligence

legislation offered Congress to make it illegal

agencies to conduct such covert activities, yet

for government employes to reveal classified

Mr. Ford and Secretary of State Kissinger, in

information. Finally, the President has created

testimony before a Senate committee, do rot

three new boards io manage and oversee

even talk directly of covert activities. They

intelligence.

argue for the need for sound intelligence. That

The President's plan is for internal reforms

is unquestionable. What is questionable is the

internally directed and controlled. The pro-

misuse and distortion of the intelligence

gram should make the intelligence system

function to engage in covert, dirty and

Dale:

2/19/76

more accountable to the President and per-

sometimes plainly illegal tricks.

• Edition:

*** Final

form more responsibly if it works out in

The Executive authority to use the intelli- Author:

practice - that is, if agencies operating in

gence function in arbitrary ways is a relatively

Editor:

secret really respect those guidelines meant to

recent phenomenon, and it has created a grave

protect the rights of citizens, and if George H.

challenge to the American system of checks

Tille:

Intelligence

Bush as new CIA director can really manage

and balances. The constitutional way to

Activities

all the varied and sometimes rival intelligence

provide this essential check is through strong

groups, and if former Ambassador Robert D.

congressional oversight. Mr. Ford himself

Character: SI 94-297

Murphy and his committee can really oversee

commends the idea oi a joint committee of

or

their performances.

oversight, but he suggests that he does not

Classification: St. Louis

Despite the internal improvements within

know what oversight racans when he asks

Submitting Office:

the Executive Branch, however, the "lessons

Congress to agree never to disclose informa-

from experience" are that the misdeeds of the

tion without the Presicent's approval.

intelligence services were Executive Branch

Oversight automatically bowing to an Erec-

misdeeds. Mr. Ford's plan does nothing to

utive clain for secrecy is not what Congress

62-5038-21

disturb presidential control of intelligence but, s owes the Republic. Congress must insist on a

instead, enhances it with new secrecy propos-

als that could increase the Executive power by

complete inspection of the uses of the vast and!!

devious power of the iztelligence arm.

cat

NW 65994 Docld:32989794 Page 57

---

## Page 58

ORSICI

BOARD

"ERATIONS

")P.(Formerly

-PONG PUSORY

COMMITTEE)

ENGELUAROT

You Can Reles New-Ite Got Two Here Watchdoge On Mim'

NW 65994 Docld:32989794 Page 58

---

## Page 59

FD-350 (Rev. 11-11-75)

(Mount Clipping in Space Below)

Ford Security Plan

Still Has Loopholes

For Political Abuse

? By RICHARD DUDMAN

Chief Washiugton Correspondent

WASHINGTON

ONE OF PRESIDENT Gerald fo

Ford's biggest tasks has been to

straighten out what officials call the

American "intelligence community."

Several of the agencies included in

the community were corrupted to some

degree by the Watergate scandal. To

take random examples, the Central

Intelligence Agency provided disguises

and false identities for White House,

burglars, a director of the Federal

Bureau of Investigation burned docil-

mentary evidence in his backyard, and

political enemies of the Nixon Adminis-

tration were confident that the Internal

Revenue Service was harassing them

with special tax audits.

Illegal letter openings, wiretaps, surveil-

lance, slander and provocation at home, as

well as efforts abrics to assascinate foreign

leaders, interfere in foreign eluctions, foment

coups and even wage secret wars-all tinese

gäve the CIA and the rest of the intelligence

community a bad name.

Mr. Ford brought forth his remedy this

week. It was a package of naw Government

orders, proposals for new legislation and

appeintmen of a new civilian oversight

committee.

I's problent essentially was how to carigo

on the business of government effectively

while at the same time irsulating the

griernmeir machinery againit political

abuse ny sore future Nixon.

Soms of the President's top aids put the

matte: is diferent words in a briefing giver

lp son rassionai leaders Tuesday night and

to roporters yesterday.

THE OPENING FLASH card in a slide

presentation put it this way:

"To ensure that-

• ! "The United States has a strong and

effective capability to gather and evaluate:

foreign intelligence and conduct necessary

¡covert operations.

"These activities

are conducted in a

constitutional and lawful manner and never -

aimed at our own citizens."

From the President on down, the greates

emphasis appeared to be on the first of those

tho objectives. Mr. Ford's package kept the

CIA intact, rejecting the advice of some

critics who had urged a separation of covert

operations from intelligence gathering on the

ground that the one distorted the other when

operational decisions demanded production

ol tacts to support them.

The Ford package also ignored the Rocke-

feller Commission's recommendation last

year that careful consideration be given to

whether the ClA's budget should be made

public, particularly in the light of a provision,

of the Constitution that requires regular

publication of "the receipts and expenditures

of all public money,"

A question arose immediately, too, aboud

the President's recommendation that Con-

gress streamline its overseeing function and

create a single joint committee on intelli-

gence to take the place of the four commit-

tees to which intelligence agencics must

report.

Mr. Ford told Congress that the change

would reduce the risks of disclosure o

Government secrets and "facilitate the ef-

forts of the Administration to keep the

congress fully informed of foreign intelli-

gence activities."

NW 65994 Docld:32989794 Page 59

(Indicate page, name of

newspaper, city and state.l

ST. LOUIS

3B. POST-DISPATCH

ST. LOUIS, MO

Date:

2/19/76

Edition: ****

Final

Author:

Editor:

Title: INTELLIGENCE

ACTIVITIES

Character: SI 94-297

Classificaim: St,

Louis

Submitting Coiir:

ElBeing irrestighter

62-5038-22

157

ich

Jud, Bureau No

---

## Page 60

A CRACKDOWN ON information leaks by

executive order and proposed legislation also

served the cause of efficiency and effective.

ness. Government employes would be subiect

to civil judgment and in some cases criminal

punishment if they divulged classified mate-

Although the press and others outside the

sovernment are exempt froir: these provi

ions, Atlorney General Edward H. Levi

acknowledged that they could be summoned

as witnesses and ordered on pain of con-

tempt to disclose their sources.

So much for the efficiency and effective-

ness side of the new balance promised by the

President. There are seeds of controversy

also in the new protections offered

individual Americans.

I nat tlashcard said that intelligence activi-

ties would be "never aimed at our own j

citizens." yet the

words "except" and

"unless" appear again and again when these

guarantees are spelled out in the President's

new executive order on United States foreign

intelligence, activities.

The order prohibits physical surveillance

against any U.S. citizen, U.S. corporation or

resident alien-"unless" it comes under a

iprogram approved by the agency head and is

directed against a forner agency employe or

contractor to protect intelligence sources or

methods or national security information.

NW 65994 Docld:32989794 Page 60

2153

Exceptions likewise are included in guar-

antees against physical searches without

consent, opening of mail, examination of

federal tax returns, infiltration of private

organizations, and wire taps.

In various forms, the question kept arising

as ts what would prevent a President from

once more misusing the intelligence machin-

ery to help strengthen his own political

The new CIA director, George Bush, was

asked what would happen when someone in

his position was directed in the future to

penetrate the headquarters of a U.S. political

party.

flush replied that anything like that would

be "absolutely out."

But the only reason he gave was that ke;

would not permit the agency to be involved.

in any such operation.

When the officials made it clear that.

• President Ford is determined that they

proposed new congressional oversight com-

mittee will have no veto over covert foreign.

operations, reporters wanted to know wheth

er Congress could have done anything to hal-

the covert delivery of arms and money to a,

U.S.-backed faction in Angola.

Lt. Gen. Brent Scowcroit (ret.), assistant

to the President for national security affairs,

replied: "There is nothing to prevent a

member of Congress from moving to cut off

funds for the operation- as has, ir fact, been

done in Angola.

But further questions elicited the fact that

there had been no determination yet as to

wi.en the committee would be notified of iny

suh operation. It appeared that the decision

already might have been made and he

operation in progress before even the over.

seeing committed got wind of it

totl

---

## Page 61

Thurs Feb. 19. 1976. 3B

ST. LOUIS POST-DISPATCH

...

Jan ta.

• Brent Scoweroft

Assistant to the President

George H. Bush

CIA Director

- NW-65994-DoG|d 32989794-Page_61.

---

## Page 62

(Mount Clipping in Space Below)

Revamping U.S. Intelligence

• is it is.

The three-part plan to reorganize and

upgrade the United States' Intelligence gath-

ering operations announced Tuesday night by

President Ford appears to be constructive

and well thought out.

It calls for placing all policy direction for

oreign intelligence under four officials - the

President, the Vice President, and the

Secretaries of State and Defense.

It calls for combining all the operations of

the Central Intelligance Agency, the Penta-

gon's Defense Intelligence Agency and the

National Security Agency and other intelli-

gence units under one command structure

headed by the new director of the CiA,

dent in the cheation era esteen santi.

in this activity.

ongress should carry out its end of th

argain to help restore the greatly dimi:

George Bush.

It aiso would create a new Oversight

Board made up of private citizens "to

monitor the performance of our intelligence

opcrations."

*To prevent possible abuses, Mr. Ford said

his office would propose "a comprehensive

set of public guidelines" to safeguard civil

rights, plus eventual legisiation

"to provide

judicial safeguards agamst electronic sur-

ion. Unless Congress acts to protect secre

intelligence information, it shouldn't be

s trusted with secret infornation whose re-

lease could hurt U.S. intelligence oparations.

edicate page, and State

awspape

14A (Editorial Page

ST. LOUIS

GLOBE-DEMOCRAT

ST. LOUIS, MO.

Date:February 20, 197

Edition: Daily - Final

Author:

Editor:

Tille: INTELLIGENCE

ACTIVITIES

Character:

or

Classification: SI 94237

Submitting Office: St. Loui

_ Being Investigated

62-5038-23

-

94=297

ich

Fud. Bureau s20,

NW 65994*

Docld:32989794-Page=62

---

## Page 63

F1i39d Rev. 1i-11-75)

(Mount Clipping in Space Below)

GAO Gridicina i st Intelligence Work

Ry CURT MATTHSYS

cases neither the agents in-

snou'd be," the report said.

Washington Corresposdent

volved in the investigations

It specifically recommend-

nor tire bureau files could

ed:

•WASHINGTON, Feb. 21-

supyly intormation regarding!

- Clarityira tie authorit

Domestic intelligence opera-

tions of the Federal Bureau of

now the inturmation was ultl

of the FBI to investigate U.S.

mately uscd

Investigation are neither tf-

crime, the report said.

to prevent ai

itizens suspected of illega

ubversion of the Goverr

fective nor properly

con-

The study suggested that

ment.

troiled, the General Account-

the FBI procedures included

ing Oifee, said in a repor

- Limiting domestic intelli

ndicale page, name o

ewspaper, city and state

no follow-up reports to indi-

made public yesterday.

gance investigations to groups

cate the usefulness of infoi-

or individuals "that have used

A spokesman for the agen-

cy called the report "the kost

mation prediced by its inves-

or are likely to use torce or

The report noted i violence."

exter,ive study ever made of

2A

that the FBI has reen slow to

current FBI operations."' Un-

-. Restricting the use by

like recent congressional in-

quiries into FBI investigative

ST. LOUIS

POSI-DISPATCH

ST. LOUIS, MO.

work

this study focused n

current practices and piece-

dures rather than past abus-

es, he notori.

The General Accounti g 01

fice, an independent agercy

set up by Congress to remed

the effectiveness of Govern-

group or individual has come

"We believe the results of

our review show that there is

a need for a clear statement

from the Congress as to what

the objectives of the FBI's

domestic operation should be,

what functions they

include and what their scope

violence in violation of a

- Limiting the scope, us

nid retention of informatici

gathered by the FBI in 'dy-

mestic intelligence opera-

ment operations and take

recommendtions for inprov-

ing efficiency, made the study

t the rogusst of Representa

Ley General each year ravia

he domestic intelligence o

ive Peter N

Rodino Jr.

(Deni.), New Jersey, chair-

man of the House Judiciery

Commilled.

The report is based un,

reviewe of 893 randomly ..

lected domestic intelligense

cases that were under active

investigation in 1974 by FEl

ficks clices in 10 cities

"The cases ... reviewed

resulted in few prosecutions

o1 convictions or

even in

referrals by the FBI - to

apprepriate (jocal) authori-

ties - for prosecution," the

Pi 97 rares in shi on indi.

Hots wore onder investi

the Fill obtained advance

infraction abon phaned

"tro sive of extremist" ae-

1x1 :001x 17 casts.

to local autorities inion na-

I rega deny expected netiv-

sies of subversive us +x-

cremat grougs, in lact the l7

to Congress.

the legislative recommen

lations are more restrictive

1 FBI operations than ur

he domestic intelligenc

guidelines drafted last De-

Cumber by Attorney General

Edward H. Levi.

These guideline, called for

closer supervision by the Da

"partment of lustice of FBi

domestic intelligence, includ-

tig involvement by the Attor-

psy General in key decisions

to start and stop specitic

investigations.

FBi director Clarence M.

Illey is rid that if the

bureau chacentrated or ViO-

lence-prone groups, as the.

Caper, duty repeat T1.G, 1.

locusa bu unabie to fund we?

control persons deny rous to

the Grocerpracht "vite are not

dituated wit, such groups. i

Date: 2/24/76

Edition:

*** Final

Author:

Editor:

Tille:

INTELLIGENCE

ACTIVITIES

Character:

or

Classificatin: SE 62-5028

Submitting Citir:St.

Inuis

_ Being investigaed

62-5.03 33

VIS

NW 65994 Docld:32989794 Page 63

Fad. Bmenu3/2/16

---

