# DOCID-32312805

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/9/2015

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10325-10054

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

105-99938-NR

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: MM

TO: HQ

TITLE:

Released under the John F. Kennedy

ssassination Records Collection Act of

1 992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

66000 Date: 11-03-2021

DATE: 05/07/1968

'PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS:

CUBAN COUNTERINTELLIGENCE PROGRAM

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS:

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

Redact

10/08/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

NW 66000 Docld:32312805 Page 1

---

## Page 2

F'D-S6 (Rev. 5-22-641

• 1.

5/7/68

FBI

CONTIDENTIALI

Transmit the following in

(Type in plainces

ved

AIRTEE

(Priority)

DECLASSIFY ON. 25X

TO:

FROM:

DIRECTOR, FBX (109-534)

SAC, MIAMI (105-1742) (P)

ANTI-FIDEL CASTRO ACTIVITIES

IS - CUBA

COINTEL

SUBJECT:

APPROPRIATE AGENOTES

AND

FIELD OFFICES

ADVISE

SI

Miami airtel to the Bureau dated 4/30/68. 02

4663

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINE

HEREEN IS VICLASSTFIED

EXCEFT WHERE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

Classified By

Declassify on.

The

Miami office continues its attempts to further

infiltrate PODER CUSANO (PC) and the JULIO PEREZ PEREZ-

EVARISTO

GARCIA

SARMIENTO faction of the CUBAN NATIONALiST

MOVEMENT

(CNVi) •:

x(4)

JOSE DIAZ COMEZ, PCI, is continuing contact with

PC leaders in an attempt co further ascerta

i Pc membership

and activities.

Х(u)

aunter intele

renders

ALFONSO RAY,

a source in Cuban matters, is in

contact with PC leaders

infiltrate the PO.

(j"Is continuing his attenyts to

Pia

M/815-S)

Continues to frequent the Toyo Restaurant (5]

& hangout

for PC"

readers, and now advises that PC members

have

not come to the restaurant during the past week and

their present whereabouts are unknown.'

KX(4)

DI. CARMELINA BONAFONTE advised that information

received from her source

Chis lied by.

2650

nept trou

gory.

peric is in 1055,928

that crusten

45 (слива, ест)

Bureau

Let Declassifica

Lion Indefi

97-48484 (MIRR

Miami

110515556) Cuba 231917

(1

105-2481) (Cubnat)

(5)

• 4 MAY Z4 7968

7

cHn

MAY 3

1052

99938

NOT REGARDED

170 MAY 16 1968

VASEA

Approved:

M

Special Agent in Charg

CONFIDENTIAH

NW 66000 Docld:32312805 Page 2

---

## Page 3

MM 105-1742

CONFADENTIAL

HECTOR CORNILLOT LIANO, PC leader; said he is leaving the

PC and the

Miani area because of pressure put on him by two

members of the Miami Police Departnent.

PEREIRA reports

that PC activist, OAR SOIO PUJOL, said he'is leaving the

IPC because he does not want any more problems. PEREIRA

reports that the PC is breaking up, no longer meets and

discusses plans, no longer wants dynamite for future operations,

land claims

the organization has no immediate plans. (X.4u)

Under the counterinteiligence program, copies of

a Bureau approved leaflet have been mailed to numerous Cuban

exilé businessmen in Miami.

Copies of a second and different

leaflet, approved by the Bureau,.

have also been mailed.

third approved leaflet will be mailed this week.

A fourth

leaflet will be submitted to the Bureau for approval, and ii

approved, this leaflet will also be mailed to Cuban exile

businessmen in Miami. (U)

These leaflets

have carried such titles as:

"CUBAN POWER -- A CASTRO FRONT?"

"'CUBAN POWER -- CRIMINAL

ORGANIZATION???

and "CUBAN POWER' - - OR NARCOTICS POWER?" (4)

RICARDO MORALES NAVARRETE continues to be inter-

viewed daily by, the Miami office and has furnished a large

quantity of tremendously valuable information

PC and other anti-Castro organizations.

Concerning the PEREZ-GARCIA SARMIENTO faction of the

CINM,

there has been no activity during the past week.

PEREZ

has remained in the West Palm Beach area, and the Customs

informant in Miami has had no opportunity to see him or to

identify BADIN.

Miami is considering interviewing the Customs

source,.

NANCY RODRIGUEZ, to see if she is amenable to contact

py bureau Agents:

ascertain her potential for being a

Bureau source. u

FELIPE RIVERO DIAZ waS interviewed on 4/24/68, in

connection with another matter.

He described PEREZ as being

psychopath and unstable and stated PEREZ exerts a great

emount of influence over GARCIA SARMIENTO. RIVERO feelS

1SCS

REVIEWED

BY

FONUFK TAOX FORCE

ON

7/1198 dal

- ?

RELEASE IN FULL

RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DENTAL

CONFIDENTIAL

NW 66000 Docld:32312805 Page 3

---

