# DOCID-32354836

## Page 1

Date:

01/18/05

JEK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION

FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER : 104-10095-10416

RECORD

SERIES

: JFK

AGENCY

FILE

NUMBER

80T01357A

DOCUMENT

INFORMATION

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

:ENSE. DEP DIR

: THE RECORD

TITLE : MEMO: CIA CONTACT WITH THE IMMIGRATION AND

NATURALIZATION

SERVICE ON BEHALF OF MR. JOHNNY ROSELLI.

DATE: 03/25/1974

SUBJECTS : MAHEU, ROBERT

ROSELLI, J.

GIANCANA, S.

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER

CLASSIFICATION : SECRET

RESTRICTIONS : 1A 1B

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 08/12/93

COMMENTS : JFK35 : F5

: 1993.08.12.11:10:02:060064 : DUPLICATE OF

104-10096-10030

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#NW

55924 Date: 10-25-2021

[R]

- ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10095-10416

NW 65924 Docld:32354836 Page 1

---

## Page 2

SECRET

25 MAR 1974

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT:

Agency Contact with the Immigration and

Naturalization Service on Behalf of Mr.

Johnny Rosell

Reference is made to a request forwarded to the

Office of Security on 19 March 1974, by Mr. John C.

Richards, Office of the Inspector General.

The Subject

of inquiry is based on a request for information, made on

13 March 1974, by Mr. Terry Lenzner, Assistant Majority

Chief Counsel, Senate Select Committee on Presidential

Campaign Activities, to Mr. Lyle L. Miller, Deputy Legis

lative Counsel. Mr. Lenzner cited a 14 May 1962, Agency

memorandum which refers to contact between Mr. Lawrence

Houston, then General Counsel, and the then Attorney S

General,

Mr. Robert Kennedy, with the intention of quashing

of a Grand Jury organized crime indictment against Sam

Gianconni (sic) (Salvatore Giancana) " Mr. Lenzner is under

stood to believe this reported contact and the circunstances

surrounding. the intended Agency utilization of Mr. Glancana

during President John F. Kennedy s: Administration were being

surfaced in 1971 as part of an effort to obtain blackmail.

type information on certain principals in the Democratich

Party. Mr. Lenzner specifically requested information one

Agency contacts with the Administration during 1971 relating

to this matter

The files and records of all individuals identified

with the planned utilization of Mr. Giancana were searched.

These individuals included Mr. Robert A. Maheu, who arranged

contact with Mr. Giancana through Mr. Johnny Roselli, Mr.

Richard Cain, recently deceased, who was identified in the

press as knowledgeable of Agency association with Mr. Giancana;

and Mr. William King Harvey, retired Staff employee, who

acted as principal contact with Mr. Roselli during the

late 1960's and up until Mr. Roselii/s incarceration

E2 IMPDET

CL BY 06114Z

SECRET

NW 65924 Docld:32354836 Page 2

---

## Page 3

SECRET

Additionally, the files of other individuals associated wich

Mr. Robert A. Maheu were also searched. These included, Mr.

Peter R. Maheu, Mr. John Meier, and Mr. Michael Merhige, II,

currently an Agency contract employee, who was utilized

during 1969 and 1969 in Ecuador under a commercial cover

arrangement provided by the Maheu organization.

3.

Memoranda were located in the file of Mr. Johnny

Roselli which summarize contact on 26 February 1971,

initlatad by this Agency with the Commissioner,

Inmigration

and Naturalization Service, Department of Justice, Mr. Raymond

Farrell. The purpose of this effort was to intercede wich

the Immigration and Naturalization Service on behalf of Mr.

the action being initiated for deportation. It

was determined that this Agency would be kept informed of the

progress of the action against Mr. Roselli in an effort to

forestall public disclosure of his association with the United

States Government.

The Attorney General

at the time of these

contacts with

the Inmigration and Naturalization Service was

Mr. John N. Mitchell.

42 On 21 March 1974, this matter was discussed with Mr.

John C. Richards, Office of the Inspector General; Mr. Lyle L.

Miller, Deputy Legislative Counsel; and Stanton F. Ense,

Deputy Director for Personnel Security and Investigations,

Office of Security.

The Office of Security file on Mr. Johnny

Roselli was made available to Messrs. Richards and Miller,

including the memoranda cited in paragraphs land 3 above. Mr.

Miller indicated that he planned to await a follow-up call

from Mr. Lenzner on this subject.

Stanton F. Ense

Deputy Director of Security.

Personnel Security and Investigations

NW 65924. Docld:32354836 Page 3

SECRET

---

