# DOCID-32404505

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER

104-10331-10376

RECORD SERIES

: JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

PROJFILES- CORRESPONDENCE

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

AGENCY ORIGINATOR :

CIA

FROM

TO

TITLE

DATE

PAGES

SUBJECTS

NOTES FROM MEETING W/ARB STAFF SEPT. 11, 1995

09/12/1995

1

:

STATIONS

JFK ASSASSINATION

DOCUMENT TYPE

PAPER

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

RESTRICTIONS

CURRENT STATUS RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

04/22/03

COMMENTS

JFK-M-16: F13: 2000.03.01.11:18:47:233035.

Released under the John F. Kennedp

assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

65990 Date: 11-01-2021

[R]

ITEM

IS

-----

RESTRICTED

104-10331-10376

NW 65990 Docld:32404505 Page 1

---

## Page 2

SECRET

September 12, 1995

WORKING PAPER

Notes

from meeting w/ ARRB staff Sept. 11, 1995

Issue:

Presentation to Board at Sept. 20/21 meeting

It was agreed that "STATIONS" would be the

focus of the

presentation -- 10:00 am, 20 Sept., one hour.

Marwell recommended providing evidence of bilateral

agreements as well as identifying current harm. Said that

the Board was leaning strongly toward releasing stations,

particularly those in Europe.

Mary pointed out that there were still issues on the Mexico

City station window.

There are documents from the 50s,

references in summaries to the founding of the station and,

most important, the visit by the HSCA to Mexico City.

Ellie said there was the possibility of opening windows of

stations when Oswald was present, however, this was a key

issue for the Agency and a senior Directorate/Agency

decision. She indicated that the Do would oppose expanding

the Mexico City window

ey window sto the

into the 70s.

As for the older documents, we pointed out that we had

already agreed to the release of those documents.

Marwell suggest that the 20 Sept. presentation would be a

good opportunity to address the Private Line and other Tel

Taps issue rather than requesting a separate meeting.

After the meeting Marwell elaborated on the presentation.

He said to try to avoid going over old ground (US-Mexico

relationship); when possible provide specific/hard evidence

(bilateral agreements carry weight); war-stories do not go

over well. He emphasized the importance of using the

language of the law especially when citing harm.

He

specifically mentioned Sec. 6. (B) {copy attached) which sets

a standard of "interfere with the conduct of intelligence

activities"

[Note: In a previous meeting with Gunn, he stressed

similar

themes including avoiding what he called "chicken little"

arguments.

He also raised the question on sensitivity of

acknowledging we had a station in Moscow. during the 60s.

"It would have been logical to have one, during the Cold

War." ]

SECRET

NW 65990 Docld:32404505 Page 2

---

