# DOCID-32369813

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY

: CIA

RECORD NUMBER : 104-10146-10094

RECORD

SERIES

:

JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

80T01357A

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM : BRECKINRIDGE, SCOTT D., OLC

TO

: DEPUTY DIRECTOR FOR OPERATIONS

TITLE

.: PLANNING FOR FINAL HSCA REPORT

DATE :

10/17/1978

PAGES

3

SUBJECTS : CIA

INVESTIGATION

HSCA

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER

CLASSIFICATION

: SECRET

RESTRICTIONS : 1A

CURRENT STATUS:

RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 08/09/93

COMMENTS

: JFK59: F13: 1993.08.09.17:21:51:370039

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

55924 Date: 10-26-2021

[R]

- ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10146-10094

NW 65924. Docld:32369813 Page 1

---

## Page 2

SECRET

!:..

pig filed

ASCA

0L6 #78-3224

17 October 1978

MEMORANDUM FOR : Deputy Director for Operations

Deputy Director for Administration

Deputy Director for Science & Technology

General Counsel

FROM

SUBJECT

:

S. D. Breckinridge

Planning for the Final HSCA Report

1. We have asked the HSCA to arrange to give us

sections of its report at different times to facilitate

our review and response.

There has been no response to

this request although it has been made both in writing

and orally.

2. The Memorandum of Understanding with the Committee

provides that the Committee will notify the DCI in writing

of its desire to disclose any information designated for

protection by the DCI:

Until advised to the contrary

(and we will try to clarify it) our working assumption

is that the submission of the final report to us will

constitute a written notice of the desire to have the material

in that report published. If the Committee does not receive

a response "within five days," objecting

to this and stating

the reasons, then the Committee may disclose the information.

There are provisions for subsequent exchanges on the point

but the key provision is the first five-day period.

As a practical matter we will have two separate

reviews to conduct--a security review and a substantive

review.

We probably should plan to conduct the two reviews

at the same time.

Our formal agreement clearly provides

for our right to take a stand in opposition to disclosure

of sensitive material. We have been told that the Committee

will also

receive and consider any factual corrections

that we offer and any statements of disagreement that we

183

ET

ONLY

21507

This document may be downgraded tu AIUO when detached from attachment

NW 65924 Docld:32369813 Page 2

---

## Page 3

SECRET

•100600373M00/G STREL USE ONLY

have on

substantive issues.

4.

In anticipation of the short deadline (and the

agreement says five days, not five working days) we should

plan in advance on an informal working group consisting of

representatives from the affected organizations (DDO, DDA,

DDS&T, OGC and OLC) .

Directorate representatives should

be authorized to designate persons within the Directorate,

both substantively competent and in sufficient numbers to

conduct the necessary reviews. At present the following

components seem to have been involved:

(a)

Directorate of Operations: Plans Coordination Staff

(Messrs. Gregg, Shepanek and Holmes), LA

DIvision (Messrs. Sturbitts and Hawkins), SE

Division (Mr. Kalaris), CI Staff (Messrs. Blee,

McCoy and Sednaoul),

Information Management

Staff (Mr. Donnelly).

Directorate of Administration: Office of

Security (Messrs. Solie and Reardon), Office

of Personnel (Doris Houdesheldt).

(c)

Directorate of Science & Technology: Office

of the Deputy Director (Mr. Clark), Office of

Technical Service (Mr. Brandwein and Jean Turoff).

(d) Office of the General Counsel: Mr. Rininger.

After there has been time to consider the problems that will

be faced, the undersigned will ask for a meeting with repre-

sentation as appropriate from the above components.

5. Arrangements will be made by OLC with Printing

Services Division for priority reproduction of the HSCA

draft report immediately upon receipt.

The number of

copies will be determined by agreement among the above

parties.

Distribution of copies will be by hand

priority basis.

Various components will be organized for

an intensive review for both security and substantive

issues of the sections affecting them.

In essence, each

component will prepare two ditterent responses, one dealing

solely with security considerations and the other dealing

with factual corrections and disagreements with interpreta-

tion and presentation.

These papers will be prepared and

forwarded to OLC which will consolidate the responses into

a single response.

That paper will be reviewed in a

working session by designated representatives of the

various organizations.

SECRET

A0 ST

2

NW 65924 Docld:32369813 Page 3

---

## Page 4

SECRET

6. A common criteria for security review and pro-

posed sanitization will be necessary to insure some

rational standard and some degree of consistency in

applying it.

Fairly simple instructions will come the

closest

to meeting the requirements of such an operation

and the

attached guidelines present a useful point of

departure in considering it.

They were developed after

some experience with the problem during the Church

Committee investigations.

While longer guidelines exist,

they are not practical for a pressure operation such as

this will be.

7. Present HSCA planning is to have available for

our review a Summary Report to be considered by the full

Committee in public sessions mid-November. The Staff

Summary of the investigations are planned for mid- to late-

December.

We should be ready in early November for the

first round.

S. D. Breckinridge

Attachment

CC:

Mr. Gregg, C/PCS/ LOC

Mr. Shepanek, PCS/ LOC

Mr. Holmes, CI Staff

Mr. Sturbitts, C/LA/Staff B

Mr.

Hawkins, LA/MGSB

Mr. Kalaris,

C/SE Division

Mr. Blee, C/CI Staff

Mr. McCoy, DC/CI Staff

MT.

Sednaoui, CI Staff

Doris Houdesheldt, 0/Personnel

Mr. Brandwein, OTS

Jean Turoff, OTS

Mr. Hai Clark, DDS&T

Mr. Rininger,

Mr. Donnelly, IMS

Distribution

1 - DDO

1 - DDA

1

- DDS&T

1

- General Counsel

1 - OLC/Subject

1 - OLC/Chrono

SECRET

3

NW 65924 Docld:32369813 Page 4

---

