# DOCID-32366202

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER

RECORD

SERIES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

:. CIA

: 104-10132-10072

: JFK

:

80T01357A

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

AGENCY ORIGINATOR

FROM

TO

TITLE

DATE

PAGES

CIA

PHERSON, JOHN R.

DEPUTY DIRECTOR SECURITY

WITHHELD

05/18/1964

:

2

SUBJECTS : SHERWOOD

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER

CLASSIFICATION

: SECRET

RESTRICTIONS : 1A

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

COMMENTS

: 07/28/93

: JFK47 : F2A: 1993.07.28.19:34:38:930580

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

65924 Date: 10-26-2021

---

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10132-10072

NW 65924 Docld:32366202 Page 1

---

## Page 2

SECTE?

DD/S&T 1543/64

18 May 1964

MEMORANDUM FOR:

Deputy Director Security

SUBJECT

: TADEN, Mrs. Ruth

17 58419

1.

Subject is a staff employee of OfL.

She advised

the undersigned on the morning of 18 May 1964 of statements

made to her on thursday evening 14 May, which associated

the CIA with the assassination of President Kennedy.

She

wanted a report of the conversation made known to the Office

of Security.

2. Mrs. Taden indicated that she resided in Prince

Georges County, Maryland, and several months previously had

registered as

a Republican in order to vote in the up-coming

primary elections.

This past Thursday night a Mrs. Sherwood

telephoned Mrs. Taden indicating she was one of the Delegates

on the Republican ballot and was supporting Senator Barry

Goldwater.

Mrs. Taden told Mrs. Sherwood that she had not

decided which candidate to support, and that although she had

registered Republican she held a deep respect for the late

President Kennedy.

Mrs. Sherwood then made some disparaging

remarks about the

late President Kennedy.

She also furnished

specific information regarding what she described as a

reliable prediction, made prior to November 1963, that

President Kennedy would be assassinated.

3

Mrs. Sherwood indicated that an acquaintance in West

Virginia, who said he was a former CIA courier, had told her

prior to the assassination of President Kennedy that President

Kennedy would be assassinated and that the assassin in turn

would also be killed.

Mrs. Sherwood further advised, according

to Mrs. Taden, that her attempts to locate this person in

West Virginia, after the assassination, were not successful.

Apparently, in Mrs. Sherwood's words, this person "just dis-

appeared from sight", following the assassination of President

Kennedy.

Document Number

1280- 466B

for FOlA Review on

FEB 1977

SEGRET

Excludes nad Basmatic

deangrating ano

Coclasslisation

NW 65924 Docld:32366202 Page 2

---

## Page 3

SEGO

-2-

SUBJECT: Taden, Mrs. Ruth

4.

Mrs. Taden said she did not identify herself as

being with CIA, and did not make any attempts to draw out

Mrs. Sherwood for further information. Mrs. Taden does

not

have the name of the alleged ex-CIA courier not the

first name of Mrs. Sherwood.

She identified Mrs. Sherwood

as being number 33E on the Republican ballot in the

Maryland primary of 19 May 1964.

5. If you desire further information from Mrs. Taden,

she may be contacted on extension 9180.

Jala Please

:. PHERSO

Security Officer

DD/S&T

Attachment:

Excerpt from Washington Post-20 May 64

SEGNET

NW 65924 Docld:32366202 Page 3

---

