# DOCID-32396209

## Page 1

Date: 11/23/04

JEK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

GENCY : CI

ECORD NUMBER : 104-10048-1044

CORD SERIES : JE

ENCY FILE NUMBER : 80T0135'

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM : DDO

TO

: D/FBI

TITLE : STURGIS, FRANE

PACE5 : 08/26/1977

SUBJECTS : STURGIS, FRAN

REINOS

GOME 2,

LEONELL

ROBERTO, HOLDEN

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER

CURE STATUE ERASED IN PART BUSIC - REIASO WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

COMMENTS : JFK2 F16: F16: 46:120800

feleased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination

Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note

ase# NW 65924 Date: 10-21-2021

(R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10048-10449

NW 65924 Docld:32396209 Page 1

-an.

---

## Page 2

:. i

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY -

• WASHINGTON, D.C. 20505

16 AUG:..

TO

Director

Federal Bureau.of Investigation

Attention:

Intelligence Division

FROM

Deputy Director for Operations

SUBJECT:

Frank STURGIS

REF

.: CIR-316/01746-77

1..

• According to a source of the Miami Field Office

of the Domestic Collection Division,

Subject disclosed

to the source the following information concerning plans

which allegedly reflect Subject's interest in Africa and

Panama in conversations held on or around 5 June 1977.

Subject has discussed plans to establish a Cuban Govern:

nent in exile on Angolan soil with the help of Holden

ROBERTO, FNLA:

Subiect is prepared on

receipt of agree-

meht toms be as is ance do the medical ensibi

Ostensibly, this

would be a first step following recognition by Roberto

of a Cuban Exile Government.

This government would then

attempt toraise troops and,

among other things, capture as

many Castro soldiers

as possible in order to use them as

an exchange or trade instrument.

The funds for such

enterprise ostensibly would come from Cuban Communities in

Brazil, Nicaragua, Panama, Mexico,

Venezuela and the United

States.

One aspect of the proposed unconventional war is

the use of counterfeit Angolan money.

involved is planning

to secure Angolan aid for Panamanians

who oppose Torrijos.

Involved in unspecified ways in these plans arc

the following:'

a: Leonell GOMEZ - International Coordinator

Afro-Cuban Committee (appears to be inactive

at present; formerly involved in the Cuban

Exile Movement)

b. Dr. Alida REINOSO

c.. (FNU) SOTOLONGO

d.

Merwin SIGALE - Columnist

for an afternoon news-

paper

CLASSIFILO BY --

SIGNER

EXEMPT FROM GENERAL DECLAS SHENRIN

SCHEQUEE UE E. U 11652, 888:19816 84806,018.

§58681, 839. 890 on 619 Coreelo os

+s 270:1)

ALIONATCALLY IRCOASSI0..UN

Date impossible to determi

wint

S63 2N

т. т

NW 65924 Docld:32396209 Page 2

D0002/35

---

## Page 3

SUBJECT:

Frank STURGIS

Stanley TAYLOR - Leeds, United Kingdom;

allegedly an associate of Roberto

f. Colin TAYLOR - An uncle of Stanicy Taylor

3: The source has expressed an extreme fear of physical

retribution should his disclosures become known and a

disinclination to convey his information directly to other

agencies.

CIR-316/02820-77

NW 65924 Docld:32396209 Page 3

---

## Page 4

SUBJECT: Frank STURGIS

Distribution:

Orig. &

1

- Addressee

2 - PCS/LSN

1

- OS/Redman

- Case 65889

- Info Controi

1

- ' FBI/LSN

LA Division

:2

- OSG Chronos

Gene Lacy

-10 August 1977

NW 65924 Docld:32396209 Page 4

---

