# DOCID-32341711

## Page 1

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER

RECORD SERIES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

ORIGINATOR

FROM

TO

TITLE

DATE :

PAGES

SUBJECTS

DOCUMENT TYPE

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS

CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

OPENING CRITERIA

COMMENTS

NW 65924 Docld:32341711 Page 1

Date: 10/11/95

Page:

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY

INFORMATION

CIA

104-10015-10359

JFK

201-289248

"DOCUMENT INFORMATION

CIA

CIRA/RS, CIA

IP/AN,

SUMMARY OF RELEVANT INFORMATION ON LEE HARVEY OSWALD AT

0700.24 NOVEMBER 1963.

11/26/63

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

SECRET

RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

12/13/93

OSW1:V7 1993:12.13.14:29:35:250028:

ROUTING AND RECORD

SHEET, IS ATTACHED

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note]. Case#:NW

55924 Date: 10-21-2021

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

---

## Page 2

NCLASSIFIED

SUBJECT: (Optiozal)

FROM:

CIRAIRS

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and

building)

IP/AN

6 MAR 1975

3.

4.

5.

IP/EDI

7.

UsP.2.

INAL

USK ONLY

CONFI

NTIAL

SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

RELEASE IN FULL 1995

TATENSON

NO.

XAAZ-35907

DATE

26/11/63

DATE

RECEIVED

OFFICER'S .

COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom

INITIALS

1o whom.

Drow a line across column after each comment.)

FORWARDED.

apr

Please asagr

#. and

cants t

-989248

Document Nurber 130 - 592

for FOlA Review on

APR 1976

668,5705

Feis Mille

10.

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW

CONDUCTED ON? 4 MAY 1976

__IMPDET CL BY 0I 2208

12.

13.

14.

15.

FORM

3-62

610 USE PRENOUS

SECRET

• CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

• UNCLASSIFIED.

NW 65924 Docld:32341711 Page 2

---

## Page 3

XAAZ 35907

CIA MISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAME

RELEASE IN FULL B

SUMMARY of Relevant Information on Lee Harvey OSWALD at 0700 da

24 November, 1963.

¡PAINSE COR PRESENE

Tak 12. 12.2.30

FIPAT REST. ROGE

(BE 204010)

NO (8)

FOR FILING

Document Number 130- 592-

I. Our first Information on OSWALD, came from a technical

operation in Mexico City and was cabled in on 9 October 1963: It

revealed that on 1: October 1963 Lee OSWALD had been in touch, there

with Soviet Consul Valery KOSTIKOV about a telegram which the

Soviet Embassy was supposed to send on him to the Soviet Embassy in

Washington. The date. showed that OSWAlD had also been at the Soviet

Embassy' on 28 September. Traces showed OSWALD wás a former U.S:

defector to the USSR, and on 10 October CIA Headquarters notifled the

FBI, State and the Navy (OSWALD had been a Merine). Our Mexico Station

was told to pass its information on OSWALD to the Mexico City offices,

of the FBI, the Immigration and Naturalization Service and the Embassy.

APR 1976

Since our Agency is not supposed to lavestigate U?S.

citizens abroad

without special request, we did nothing further on the case.

2. After the assassination of President Kennedy on 22 November,

for FOIÁ Review on

Mexico Station, which immediately recalled its earlier report on OSWALD

and cabled us about it, began researching all its files and records for.

reports which might relate to him. It turned up pictures of a man.

believed to be OSWALD entering the Soviet and Cuben Embassies on

various days in October, Including 1 October, but when some of these

pictures were sent to the FBI in Dallas they proved to be someone other

VIE

LASSIFICATI REVIEW SO

CONDUCTED, O.V.-

IMPET GLENO: 2208

26 nor 63.

201-289248

NW 65924 Docld:32341711 Page 3

---

## Page 4

07.0'9

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

RELEASE IN FULL 1995

•2

than OSWALD. Mexico Station has, to date, found no pictures of

OSWALD entering the Soviet of Cuban Embassy.

3. The search did reveal more data from technical operations,

however. This information, which comes'in in great masses, had not

been previously associated with OSWALD because his name is not

actually mentioned in it, but the subject matter shows it is about

him, and our expert monitor says the voice is identical with the

voice of 1 October known to be OSWALD's.

• 4.. This further technical information covers a round-robin of

telephone calls and visits which OSWALD made to the Soviet and Cuban

Embassies in Mexico City between 27 September' and 3 October 1963.

This has been supplemented by reports on his travel in and out of Mexico

obtatned by the, U. S. Consulate in the border towa of Nuevo Laredo From

!1 Mexican Immigration' Service recoras.

'5: In brief, all this Information shows that lee Harvey OSWAID

entered Mexico. (apparently by car) at Nuevo Laredo on 26 September

1963, claiming he was a photographer, living in New Orleans and bound

for Mexico City: On 27 September he was in Mexico City phoning the

Soviet Embassy to ask for a visa so hè could go to Odessa, UssR. Da

28 September, he was at the Cuban Embassy, and Silvia DURAN, 'a Mexican

Employee of the Cuban Embassy, telephoned the Soviet Embassy about his

problem: It seems that Osti, (whose name is not mentioned) wanted a

cuban transit, visa so he could go to cuba and walt there for a Soviet

NW 65924 Docld:32341711 Page 4

---

## Page 5

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

RELEASE IN FULL 1995

-3-

visa which world permit him and his wife to go on to the Soviét

Union. 'Silvia DURAN asked assurance that the Russians would grant

him the visa. A while later a soviet official calls Silvia DURAN

back and explains that the visa applicant had been dealing with

the Soviet Consulate in Washington about the same matter and that.

they could not be sure that he would ever get the Soviet visa.

The Soviet official added that the applicant had a letter showing

he belonged to an organization in favori of Cuba. Silvia DURAN and

the Soviet official agree to table the matter.

6."' On 28 September 1963, OSWAID again visits' the Cuban Embassy-

and talks to silvia DURAN about the same matter, and she phones the

Soviet Embassy. OSWALD also talks to a Soviet official on her phone

and says he will come to the Soviet Imbasy and give him what 18

apparently & forwarding address where he can be reached. There is

some hint this address may be in Cuba.

7.

On 1 October, OSWALD has his phone conversation with Soviet

Consul KOSTIKOV about his visa, and on the same day, OSWALD phones

the Soviet Military, Attache about the same matter. The Military Attache

gives him the number of the Consul: Finally, on 3 October, OsWAL®!

phoned the Military Attache again and' tried to talk about a. visa, but.

the Military Attache again referred him to the Consul and give him.

the right phone number.

8. That same day, 3 October 1963, OSWALD' drove back into the

United States at the Nuevo Laredo-Laredo, Texas crossing point. He

NW 65924 Docld:32341711 Page 5

---

## Page 6

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

RELEASE IN FULL 1995

-4=

had travelled on a Mexican Tourist Card in lieu of passport.

9. On 23 November 1963, Mexican authorities, whö get the same

technical information which we do and who had noticed the name of

Lee OSWALD In 1t, arrested Silvia DURAN and her husband and interrogated

them. She confirmed the information given above, saying that Lee

OSWALD had professed to be a Communist and an admirer of Castro, she

and her husband are being held incommunicado and their arrest will

not

be made known, for the time being:

'I0. Observation of the Soviet and Cuban Embassies in Mexico

and of their principal intelligence officers, including KOSTIKOV;

since the assassination of President Kennedy, by both technical and

physical surveillance, shows nothing unusual.

¿ 11. Mexican President Lopez Mateos Is aware of this case and

of the technical information Involved. He will doubtless support any

further police action which is necessary:

NW 65924 Docld:32341711 Page 6

---

