# DOCID-32366612

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER : 104-10133-10091

RECORD SERIES

: JFK

AGENCY FILE

NUMBER

80T01357A

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM : DIRECTOR OF SECURITY

TO : DEPUTY DIR OF CIA

TITLE

: MAHEU, ROBERT A.

DATE

06/24/1966

PAGES

6

SUBJECTS : ROSELLI

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER

CLASSIFICATION : SECRET

RESTRICTIONS

: 1A

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 09/14/97

COMMENTS : JFK48 : F15 : 1997.09.14.11:25:11:560107

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED •

104-10133-10091

NW 65924 Docld:32366612 Page 1

---

## Page 2

104-10133-10091

SECRET

CONE

Uso Pity

24 Jung 1966

MEMORANDUM FOR: Deputy Director of Central Intelligence

SUBJECT

MAHEY, Robert a

1. This memorandum is for information only.

2. In August 1960, Mr. Richard M. Bissell approached i

Colonel Shaffield Edwards to determine if the Office of Security

had assets that may assist in a sensitive mission requiring

gangater-type action.. The mision target was(the lipiditor ct)

Fidel Castro.

3. Because of its extreme sensitivity, only a small group

was made privy to the project. The DCI was briefed and gave his

approval. Colonal J. C. King, Chief, WH Division, was briefed,

but all datails were deliberately concealed from any of the

JMWAVE officials. Certain ISD and Commo personel partici-

pated in the initlal planning stages, but were not witting of the

purposa of the mission.

4. Robert A. Maheu was contacted, briefed generally on

the project, and requested to ascertain if he could develop an en-

tree into the gangater elements as the first step toward accom-

plishing the desired goal.

5. ivir. Maheu advised that he had met one Johany Roselli

on aeveral occasions while visiting Las Vegas. He only knew

him casually through clients, but was given to understand that

he was a high-ranking mamber of the "syndicate" and controlled

all of the ice-making machines on the Strip. Maheu reasoned

that, if Roselli was in fact a member of the clan, he undoubtedly

had connections leading into the Cuban gambling interests.

CLASSIFIED BY 0633329

19MAY>2

EXEMPT FROM CINTRAL DECLASSIFICATION

SCHEDULE OF :

11% RENIPTION CATEGORY:

§ 58(1). 33

¿o: (ciale one or moro)

AUTOMAAICALLY BECLASSIEIED ON

dan quadel to confidesteal

(aniers impossible, indert dase or event)

FES ONLY

CONFIDENTIAL

NW 65924

Docld:32366612 Page 2

---

## Page 3

YES. BILY CONFIDENTIAL

6. Maheu was asked to approach Roselli, who knew Maheu

as a personal relations executive handling domestic and foreign

accounts, and tell him that he had recently been retained by a

client who represented several international business firms

which were suffering heavy financial losses in Cuba as a result

o¿ Castro's action. They were convinced that Castro's removal

was the answer to their problem and were willing to pay a price

of $150,000 for its successful accomplishment. It was to be made

clear to Roselli that the U. S. Government was not, and should not,

become aware of this operation.

7. The pitch was made to Roselli on 14 September 1950 at

the Hilton Plaza Hotel, New York City. His initial reaction was

to avoid getting involved but, through Maheu's persuasion, he

agreed to introduce him to a friend, Sam Gold, who knew the

"Cuban crowd.

" Roselli made it clear he did not want any money

or his part and believed Sam would feel the same way. Neither

of these individuals wadevar paid out of Agency funds.

8. During the week of 25 September, Maheu was introduced

to Sam who was staying at the Fontainebleau Hotel, Miami Beach.

Kis mittel impressior of Sam was that of a hard, uncouth indi-

vidaah who looked and actad like. i common run-of-the-mill-hood

lur. However, his living accommodations at the hotel beliad

this, as did the fact that Maheu learned Sam was under periodic

survalllance by the FBI: It was several weeks after his meeting

with Sam and Joe, who ivas identified to him as a courier operating

between Havana and Miami, that he saw photographs of both of

these individuals in the Sunday supplemental "Parade." They

were identified as Momo Salvatore Giancana and Santos Trafficant,

respectively. Both were on the list of the Attorney General's

ten most-wanted men. The former was described as the Chicago

chieftain of the Cosa Nostra and successor to Al Capone, and the

latter, the Cosa Nostra bogs of Cuban operations. Maheu called

this office immediately upon ascertaining this information.

?.

In discussing the possible methods of accomplishing

this mission, Sam suggested that they not resort to firearms but.

if he could be furnished wite some type of potent pill, that could

CLASSIFIEC BY 033344 12820786

EXFMPT FROM GENERAL DECLASSIFICATION

SCHEDULE. Or

TEP EXEYPHON CATEGORY:

• (:) (cirale one or moro)

AUTORIA

CALLY DECLASSIFIED ON

doingonded to GenEstentral.

• (unlesa impossible, insert date or event)

NW 65924 Docld:32366612 Page 3

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 4

FIES ONLY

CONFIDENTIAL

be placed in Castro's food or drink, it would be a much more

effective operation. Sam indicatad that he had a prospective

nominee in the person of Juan Orta, a Cuban official who had

been receiving kickback payments from the gambling interesta,

who still had acceas to Castro and was in a financial bind.

10. Cornelius Roosevelt, Chief, TSD, was consulted and

assigned Dr. Raymond Triechler to develop a pill that had the

elements of rapid solubility, high lethal content, and little or

no traceability. Six of these items were produced and after

being checked out for their effectiveness by Di. Edward M.

Gunn, three pills were ultimately turned over to sam for the

mission. Neither TSD nor Dr. Guan wel briefed on the ultimate

use of the pilla.

11. Joe delivered the pills to Orta.. After several weeks

of reported attempts, Orta apparently got cold feet and asked out

of the assignment. He suggested another candidate who made

several attempts without success.

12. Joe then indicated that Dr. Anthony Verona, one of the

principal officers in the Cuban Exile Junta, had become dis-

affected with the apparent ineffectual progress of the Junta and

was willing to handle the mission through his own resources.

13. DI. Verona was approached and jumped at the oppor

tunity of getting involved in an independent operation.: He was

told that the private interests backing the project did not want

the U. S. Government and, particularly the Cla, to know oi their

involvement. (So far as this Office knows, he has never divulged

his participation in the project to the Agency.)

14.

He asked, as a prerequisite to the deal, that he be given

$10, 000 for organizational expenses and requested $1, 000 worth

of communications equipment.

15. Dr. Verona'a potential was never fully exploited, as

the project was canceled shortly after the Bay of Pigs episode.

Verona was advised that the offer was withdrawn; and the pilla

were retrieved.

CLASSIFIEC BY 063394 08990426

EXFHIPT FROM CUNFEUE DECLASSIFICATION

3

SCHEDULE CE

ExEMPTION CATEGORY:

§ 58(1),

:: (i) (circle one or moro)

AUTOA

ICALLY BECLASSIFIED ON

ETE

Lanquartet to confidental

(unless impossible, insert date or ereut)

SIUS

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

NW 65924 Docld:32366612 Page 4

---

## Page 5

SUIT

HES

UNCY

CONFIDENTIAL

16.

Of significant interest was an incident which involved

a request levied by Sam upon Makeul and now shapes up as a

potential flap.J

At the height of the project negotiations, Sam

expressed concern &

SeSam asked Maheu

to put a bug in

troom to determino the ex-

tent of

Maheu

tote Samha dia't have tha facilities, waazeupon

Sam threatened to leave Milamt to go to Vegas and

take cara of the matter himbelf. In order to pre-

vent this, Mahau contacted Edward Dubois, a

Florida investigator, and askad him to handle toe

job.7

Iristeahol instaltag a bug in the room, the

techniciaz placad a tap on the phone, vaichob-

viously did not sazre Sam's puzpose.

a."| The techai

cian involved in the assignment was discovered in

the process, arrested, and taken to the Sherlif's

office for questioniag.

After hairited to reach

Duboid by telephone, the called Maheu at the

Kenilworth Hotel, Miami, and informed him that

he had been detained by the police. This call was

made in the presence of the Sheriff's personnel.

Subsequently, the Department of Justice an-

nounced its intention to prosacute Maheu along

with the technician. On 7 February 1962, the

Director of Security briefed the Attorney General,

Robert Kennedy, on the circumstances leading up

to Maheu's involvement in the wiretay. At our ra-

quest, prosecution was dropped.

CLASSIFIED BY 0633034

EXFMPT

Fr.

12979778

SCHEDULE

GUERRIL DECLASSIFICATION

§ 551i;,

*IFTION CATEGORY:

AUT

(.) (circle one or moreo)

-Y DECLASSIFIED ON

Espin to conflertal

(unless impossible, insert date or event)

NW 65924 Docld:32566612-Page 5-

Divan.

CONFIDENTIAS

---

## Page 6

GONFIDENTIAL

Two articles appeared in the Chicago press,

one on 16 August 1963, and one on 20 August 1963,

that suggested Sam was working with the Agency.

The first article appeared in the Chicago Sun-Times

written by staff writer, Sandy Smith, and had as its

neadline: CIA Sought Giancana Help for Cuba Spying.

It relates that the Agency reportedly was in touch

with Sam in 1959 and requested that he assist them

in obtaining intelligence out of Cuba. It also men-

tioned the Las Vegas wiretap, which the article

claimed was handled by a 'Florida investigative

organization." It further went on to state that,

upon inquiry of this organization, they stated the

tap was placed at the roquest of the Central Intelli~

gence Agency. The other article appeared in the

Chicazo Daily News, authored by Columnist Tony

Weitrel, and commented that during March 1962,

Sam confronted an FBI Agent who was shadowing

him and said, "Why don't you fellows leave me

alone? I'm one of you!" Sam allegedly stated that,

after Castro's rise in Cuba, a CIA operative con-

tacted hin and wanted to know if Sam could do any-

thing for the Government on the turbulent little island.

Sam said he had friends on both sides, but no clou.

That was it.

17. Roselli was introduced to James P. O'Connell, of this

Offica, who was identified to him as an employee of Robert A.

Maheu, Associates. Over the several months of close contact be-

tween these two individuals, Roselli began to speculate as to

O'Connell's true employer and, at one point, stated that he was

convinced he was employed by the CIA, and that the project was

sponsored by the Agency. He hastened to state that he was not

forcing the issue, nor would he want confirmation of this and,

further, he would not mention this to anyone else, including Sam.

Sam was never introduced to any Agency personnel and, while CIA

was never mentioned to him, it is Maheu's belief he eventually sus-

pected the Agency was the power behind the operation.

CLASSIFIED BY 0833442 PaYS

EXEMPT

FRO:. C*

TAL DECLASSIFICATION

SCHEDULE OF E. 1:.

3. EXEMPTION CATEGORY:

5

$ 5811).

= (o; (circle one or more)

CONFIDENTIAL

ALLY DECLASSIFIED ON

23 ONLY

(unless irupossible, insert date or event)

NW. 65924 Docld:32366612 Page 6

---

## Page 7

CONFIDENTIAL

TO UNG

18. In May 1962, because of Mr. O'Connell's assignment

to an overseas post, it was decided to turn Roselli over to

Mr. William Harvey, who was at that time Chief, Task Force W.

Harvey was introduced as William Waller. It is not known whether

Roselli ever became aware of Harvey'a true, name.

Howard J. Osborn

Director of Security

CLASSIFIED BY 0S3384 08000286

EXEMPT FROM CARTRAL DECLASSIFICATION

SCHEDULE OF E. Q. E., ENEMIPTION CATEGORY:

§ 58(1),

AUTONATICALLY DECLASSIFIED ON

(üi ur (a) (circle one or moro)

dangerales to confidental

(unless impossible, insert dale or event)

NW 65924 Docld:32366612 Page 7

6

EYES 0.

SECRET

GONFIDENTIAL

---

