# DOCID-32106071

## Page 1

Date: 04/10/96

Page:

1

JEK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

-----------------

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER

RECORD SERIES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

CIA

104-10003-10179

JFK

201-289248

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR

FROM

TO

TITLE

DATE

PAGES

SUBJECTS

DOCUMENT TYPE

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS

CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

OPENING CRITERIA

COMMENTS

CIA

( [DELETE]], SR/CI/R

MEMO FOR THE RECORD

REPORT OF TELEPHONE CONVERSATION.

03/19/64

1

KRAMER, MONICA

PHOTO SLIDE

SOLVANG, CA

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

SECRET

1A

RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

06/11/93

OSW9:V35B 1993.06.11.14:12:38:250000:

20F3

Released under the John F. Kennedy

ssassination Records Collection Act

992 (44 USC 2107 Notel. Case#:N\

65924 Date: 10.21-2021

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NW 65924 Docld:32106071 Page 1

---

## Page 2

19 March 1964

MEMO FOR THE RECORD:

SUBJECT:

Report of Telephone Conversation

I. On 19 March 1964, at approximately 1530 hours, Shirley

Stetson, DO/OS operations Support Branch telephonically reported

the following to the undersigned:

She had just received a teletape answer from the Los

Angeles 00 Field Office regarding the undersigned's request

for a specific date and place of contact with Mrs. Monica

F. Kramer and the specific date on which the Agency received

b. Unfortunately, the 00 case officer who handled this

contact has been transferred to the 00 Denver Field

Office and is presently out on maternity leave.

c.. No contact reports are kept by 00 on one-time

contacts

such as the one with Mrs. Kramer.

d. A probable, but not definite, date of the contact with

Mrs. Kramer, as estimated by the 00 Los Angeles Field Office

is 7 March 1962. The place'of contact was Solvang, California.

The L.A. Field Office has in its files a copy of a letter

sent to Mrs. Kramer by the 00 case officer.

In this letter,

which was dated 17 March 1962, the case officer states.

looking forward to receiving your slides."

This would imply

that the slides were not procured at the personal contact

on/or about ? March.

£. The L.A. Field Office sent Mrs. Kramer's slides to Hqs

on 30 April 1962.

19

g. This as definite an answer as we can expect to get on this

matter. However, if anything more specific is received at

00, Shirley will let the undersigned know soonest.

2.

Shirley promised to send a copypof the L.A. Field Office

teletape to the undersigned.

Lar

Brask

SR/CI/R

NW 65924 Docld 32106071 Page 2

---

