# DOCID-32107844

## Page 1

...

Date:

06/19/96

Page:

1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION

FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER

RECORD SERIES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

CIA

104-10010-10403

JFK

201-289248

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM :

HELMS, RICHARD, DD/P, CIA

TO

: RANKIN, J. LEE, GEN COUNSEL, WC

TITLE : ANONYMOUS TELEPHONE CALLS TO UNITED STATES EMBASSY IN CANBERRA,

AUSTRALIA, RELATIVE TO PLANNED ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT KENNEDY.

DATE :

05/22/64

PAGES

SUBJECTS POLAND

AUSTRALIA

CRANK

CANBERRA, AUSTR

DOCUMENT TYPE

CLASSIFICATION SECRET

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

RESTRICTIONS

1B, 4

CURRENT STATUS

RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

06/30/93

OPENING CRITERIA

COMMENTS

: OSW15:V56B1 1993.06.30.08:36:48:780700 = 1 OF 2

Heleased under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

65924 Date: 10-21-2021

[R]

- ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NW 65924 Docld:32107844 Page 1

---

## Page 2

SEGRET

KAR:

INS NOTEE

SENSITE

ACES AND

MET Or INVOLVES

so:p 4:2424...

22 WAY 1834

MUMORANDUM FOR: MI. 3. L00 Rankin

SUSJECT:

anonymous Telophona Calle to United Statas

Embassy in Canberra, Australla, Relative to

Planno Asdausination of President Kennedy

1. I refer again to paragraph tro oí your momoranda,

datod 1? February 1904, relative to disserainations to the Jocret

Service made by CiA.

2. On 24 November 1963, GIA received from the Department

of the Navy i copy of a cable from the Naval Attache in Canberra,

Australia (IN 67327, Top Secret, later downgraded to Secret),

reporting a telephone convoroation the previous day with an

anonymous individual who had described himself so a Polish

chaufieur for the Soviet Embasry in that city. This individual,

while discuseing sevoral matters of intolligenca interest, touched

on she possibility that the Soviet Government had financed tha

aucastination of Freaident Kennedy. Refarence was made in this

cabla to tha receipt of a similar anonymous telephone call on

15 October 1952.

3. Upon receipt of this cable from Navy Cin took the

following action:

=. Cabled to Canberre anking full detaile of the

¿elephone convoraation of 23 November and the cali made

on 15 October 1962. It should be noted that ClA had sot

previously knows of the 1962 telephone call.

ULUNT

68002 1

Exciated iret cutemaila

czangradhig and

declassification

VARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE

SOURCES AND

ODS INVOLVED

NW 65924 Docld:32107844 Page 2

---

## Page 3

WARNING NO

SENSITIVE SOURCES AND

METHODS INVOIVED

b. The CIA Statica is Canberra, ca 27 Novembor, furnished

all available information on the 106z telephone call. It agucars

that source on that occasion stolsd that "Iron Curtain Countries"

planned to pay a hundrod thousand dollars for the assassinadios

of Frovident Kensady.

c. On 27 Noverbor, the OLA Canberra Station also furniehed

completa dotail on the anonymous telephone call of 23 November 1963.

d. Ga 29 Novembar, Cl disseminated this information, as

suppllod by ita Ganberra Station, to the White House, Dopartrens

of Stato, and Fedori Bureau of Investigation, with a copy to tas

Secret Service, & copy of this disecmination in ite esact text

1e attached to this memorindus.

1. The ClA Station in Canberra arranged for discusion of the

calle with the Auatralian security sorvice. In the opision of the

Australian authorities, the callet was a crink. In any event, they

ware not able to liostily any Polich employee of che Goviet Labassy,

the automobile deceribed by the caller as the one ho drove, or tha

license plate number given by him. No further Iníormation on this

call has been received. Availuble aridence would tend to show that

the caller was some type cí crank. Thia conclusion, however, cannot

be confirmaud.

5. Ploade note that the nature of the information in this

mamoranduza anú its attachmont requires the usa of a senoitivity

indicator.

Richard Helms

Deputy Diroctor for Plans

NW 65924 Docld:32107844 Page 3

SERRET

GROUP

1•

Excluded irom zalomaticl

denngrading and

dectassificalion

WARNING NOTEE

SENSITIVE &

ORCES AND

AETHODS INVOLVED

---

