# DOCID-32202036

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

RECORD

AGENCY : SSCIA

NUMBER: 157-10004-10147

RECORDS SERIES :

CHRONOLOGY

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : SSCIA

FROM :

TO :

TITLE :

CHRONOLOGY OF CASTRO ASSASSINATION PLANS

DATE : 00/00/76

PAGES : 24

SUBJECTS :

CASTRO ASSASSINATION PLANS

CUBA

OPERATION MONGOOSE

CHRONOLOGY OF PLANS

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : U

RESTRICTIONS : 1A, 1B, DONOR REST.,

REFERRED

CURRENT STATUS : X

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/19/94

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

• NW 66000 Docld:32202036 Page 1

Date: 07/19/94

Page:1

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note]. Case#:NW |

56000 Date: 11-03-2021

---

## Page 2

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DEGLASSIFICATION AND/OR

., RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

as senities

CASTRO ASSASSINATION PLANS

Comments

5/10/94

24 pages

EARLY PLANS TO HARASS CASTRO

March-July, 1960

Discussion of plans to sabotage Castro's speeches by

contaminating air of radio

studio with a substance

resembling LSD and by impregnating Castro's cigars

with a chemical to produce temporary disorientation.

Plan

to cause Castro's beard to fall out by placing

thallium salts in his shoes progresses as far as

testing the chemical on animals.

GAMBLING SYNDICATE OPERATION INITIATED

August, 1960

In August, 1960,

DDP BISSELL requested SHEFFIELD

EDWARDS,

Chief of the Office of Security, to establish

contacts

Cuba

for

with gambling syndicate that was active in

the purpose

of exploring capacity for assas-

sinating

Castro.

EDWARDS told the case officer

the

for

a private

nections.

EDWARDS

and BISSELL discussed various

forms

of

poisoning

with CORNELIUS ROOSEVELT, Chief

of TSD.

POISON CIGARS

August 16, 1960

EDWARD GUNN,

Cigars with

Office of Medical Services, receives

orders

contaminate them with lethal

are contaminated with Botulinum

I...

1(A)

1:

10..'=

NW 66000 Docld:32202036 Page 2

---

## Page 3

On January 26, HARVEY discussed the opcration with

ARNOLD SILVER.

The project

materials.

Agent QJWIN, who had been recruited

earlier by SILVER for

an operation against Lumumba,

was

salaried as

the principle agent.

On January 26,

ques with SYD

CORNER is use assassination techni-

GAMBLING SYNDICATE: ORTA OPERATION

January-February, 1961

GIANCANA suggested the use of poison pills.

EDWARDS

and O'CONNELL discussed the pills with TREICHLEREOf

TSD, and by February 10, the pills had been tested

for

their effectiveness.

Shortly thereafter they

were supplied to O'CONNELL,

ROSELLI

reported that the

pills

uhs had been delivered.

to JUAN ORTA in Cuba.

ORTA kept the pills for

few

weeks, and then returned them.

POISONED CIGARS DELIVERED

February 13, 1961

Cuten ed as sen on poisoned elsars delivered to

Comments

1(A) (B)

1 (A)

1(A)

NW 66000 Docld:32202036 Page 3

---

## Page 4

GAMBLING. SYNDICATE: VERONA OPERATION

March-April, 1961

Following ORTA's failure, ROSELLI told O'CONNELL that

TRAFFICANTE had

approached TONY VERONA,

exile movement fronted by the CIA.

head of a Cuban

VERONA claimed to

have a contact inside Cuba who worked at a restaurant

frequented by Castro.

to cover operational expenses.

MAHEU; ROSELLI, TRAFFICANTE, and VERONA met at the

Fontainbleau Hotel in Miami, and MAHEU delivered the

cash and capsules to VERONA.

When the operation

failed to materialize, VERONA returned the cash.

AMLASH: INITIAL CONTACT

March 9, 1961

JACK STEVART, of the Mexie® City station of the CIA,

met with AMLASH-1, a major in

the Cuban army who was

AMLASH-1 requested arms

Castro.

AMLASH: REQUEST FOR AID IN DEFECTING

March 28, 1961

AMLASH-l decided to defect and requested aid from

ISTEWARI* No assistance was given because of report

that Cuban police aware of AMLASH-1's defection plans.

'??'

Comments

1(A), (B)

I (A)

NW 66000 Docld:32202036 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Comments

MCCONE BECOMES DCI

October, 1961

TASK FORCE W: INCEPTION

October, 1961

Branch Chief.

BISSELL stated that he had

been repri-

manded by RFK and JFK

for not "getting

rid of" the

Castro regime.

He ordered HALPERN and COGBEY. to plan

an operation to get rid of Castro, placing no limita-

tion on the means.

GENERAL LANSDALE.

guidance and reported to him.

EXECUTIVE ACTION: DECISION TO APPLY PROGRAM TO CASTRO

November 15, 1961

On November 15, HARVEY and BISSELL discussed apply-

ing the ZRRIFLE

capability against Castro.

BISSELL

also instructed HARVEY to take over EDWARDS'

gambling

syndicate operation.

TASK FORCE W: HARVEY TAKES CONNAND

January, 1962

HARVEY was put in charge of Task Force

in January, 1962.

NW 66000 Docld:32202036 Page 5

---

## Page 6

GAMBLING SYNDICATE: MEETING IN NEW YORK

April 8-9, 1962

HARVEY 8-9.

April

sent.

GAMBLING SYNDICATE: ASHINGTON MEETING

April 14, 1962

Apr11

and asked O'CONNELL to stay with operation.

GAMBLING SYNDICATE: DELIVERY OF PILLS TO ROSELLI

April 19-21, 1962

ETRELCHLER delivered four pills to O'CONNELL on April

HARVEY arrived in Miami with the pills on April

GAMBLING SYNDICATE: DELIVERY OF PILLS TO VERONA

April 21, 1962

ROSELLI reestablished contact with VERONA, who claimed

to

have

an

asset in

Castro's food.

Cuba who could deposit the pills in

ROSELLI told HARVEY that the asset in-

tended to use the pills to assassinate Castro,

Guevarra,

and Raul

Castro.

HARVEY approved of the

targets

and

gave

who passed them on

tO

his asset

(Cuban no. 1).

an

Italian-speaking Cuban named MACEO.

Comments

1(A)

NW 66000 Docld:32202036 Page 6

---

## Page 7

Comments

AMLASH: MEETING WITH FITZGERALD

October, 1963

AMLASH-1 insisted on meeting with a senior United

States official for assurances of American support.

FITZGERALD and HELMS agreed that FITZGERALD should

meet AMLASH in Paris and hold himself out as a per-

sonal representative of RFK.

HELMS decided that it

was

unnecessary to

believed the

seek approval from RFK because he

operation was

consistent with RFK's

general policies toward Cuba.

FITZGERALD met CUBELA on October 29, and promised

to aid any anti-communist groups which could

neutralize Castro.

CUBELA requested a high-powered

FITZGERALD told CUBELA

thft he u tele states vehts not take part in an assas-

sination scheme.

AMLASH: DECISION TO PROVIDE RIFLES

November 19, 1963

A memorandum for the record by SANGlEZ dated November

states:

"C/SAS (FITZGERALD) approved telling CUBELA

he would be given a cache inside Cuba.

if he

Cache could,

requested it,

include.. high powered rifles

with scopes.

1(A)

NW 66000 Docld:32202036 Page 7

---

## Page 8

20

Comments

AMLASH: ARTIME CONTACT

December, 1964

SAWCHEZ met AMLASH-1 in Paris on December 6-7 and

indicated that the United States could not provide

assistance for his

contrived to put AMLASH-1 in

LASa-S na contact with ART NE

It was

in the hope that ARTIME would provide AMLASH-1 with

a silenced weapon.

On December 30, ARTIME met AMLASH

in Madrid, and ARTIME agreed to furnish a silencer.

AMLASH: WEAPON DELIVERY

February 11, 1965

On February 11, the Madrid station, cabled:

"On 10

or 11 of February CUBELA is to

receive one pistol with

silencer and one Belgian FAL rifle with silencer from

Both weapons come from U.S.

ARTINE's Secretary cable on February 12 reported that

now in Madrid."

and

Madrid."

AMLASH: TERMINATION

June, 1965

I (A)

(B)

tion.

NW 66000 Docld:32202036 Page 8

---

