# DOCID-32292950

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/28/201

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10210-10226

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-2839-254

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SMITH, WAYNE D.

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

Heleased under the John F. Kennedy

issassination Records Collection Act ol

1992(44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

65994 Date: 11-02-2021

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

04/15/1965

57

RAB, ASSOC, B/F INT, BUSS AND CRIMINAL ACT, INFT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 02/04/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

RPT, TABLE OF CONTENTS PAGES 2,2A

v9.1

NW 65994 Docld:32292950 Page 1

26

---

## Page 2

PH 92-441

AT PHILADELPHIA, PA.

after 1t has been fled.

AT PITTSTON, PA.

Will maintain contact with JOE DELANEY, Chief of

Police, and attempt to further Identify CHESTY BARREIT.

AT PLAINS, PA.

Will attempt to interview JOHN RUSSIN and NICHOLAS

SPAR,

who both reside on Mofet Street and are employed at

Cohen's Junk Yard.

AT. SCRANTON, PA.

Will maintain contact with the source who is acquainted

with the activities of the Carousel Motel.

AT WILKES-BARRE, PA.

1. Will maintain contact with the following:

Mrs. DEE KOON, PCI

PH 525-C

PH 663-PC

PH 655-C

PH 521-C

PH 526- C

PH 665-C-TE

DONALD B. AYERS, PCI

2.

Will consider interviewing JIM DURKIN, who

allegedly owns 52 per cent of the Pocono Downs Raceway, Inc.

3. Will attempt to determine subject's activities

at Cohen's Junk Yard and 1f he has a financial interest in this

business.

4. Will review toll calls obtained relative to

telephone number 457-6311, which is the telephone number of

- D

COVER PAGE

NW 65994 Docld:32292950 Page 2

---

## Page 3

PH 92-441

the AB&S Contracting Company, 119 North Main Street, Pittston,

Pa., and thereafter set out appropriate leads.

5. Will attempt to determine 1f the subject has a

financial interest in the Carousel Motel.

ADMINISTRATIVE DATA

On 4/5/65, NY 2772-C was contacted but was unable

to furnish any further information concerning the subject and

his girl friend who were reportedly seen at the Hilmont Hotel

In New York City.

Detroit Indices were negative on AL HERMAN and AL

GERINI.

A pretext telephone call to CLIFF BELL's Restaurant

by SA ROBERT L. MOORE determined that these names were not

familiar to the management.

Pittsburgh report dated 11/9/64 captioned "JOSEPH

NICHOLAS VOLPE, aka; AR" by SA NORMAN T. TOMASSON reported

that NY 3936-C reported that a meeting was held in the

Pittsburgh area which was attended by LOUIS VOLPE and JOSEPH

SICA, business associates of the VOLPE Brothers. This meeting

Among those attending were Pittsburgh

area hoodlums GABRIEL "KELLY" MANNARINO, FRANK AMATO,

SABASTIAN JOHN LA ROCCA, JOE ROSA, JR. and FRANK J.

ROSA,

aka Joe Rosa, Jr. New Yorkers attending included SALLY

At this meeting MANNARINO

mentioned he had just arrived from

"the farm" where he had

stayed with LOUIS VOLPE and RUSSELL BUFALINO.

On the indicated dates, the listed informants advised

SA THOMAS G. FORSYTH, III, that they knew of no current

association between subject and GABRIEL "KELLY" MANNARINO,

New Kensington, Pa.,

and knew of no plans

on the part of

MANNARINO, or any of his close associates, to finance a

shopping center anywhere:

Sources

Former PG 545-C

PG 612-C

PG 615-6

Date Contacted

2/9/65

2/11/65

2/11,26/65

- E

COVER PAGE

NW 65994 Docld:32292950 Page 3

---

## Page 4

PH 92-441

Sources

Former PQ 621-C

PG 707-0

PCI JAMES W. BURGART

PCI NICHOLAS J.

SERRAPERE

Date Contacted

2/17/65

2/22/65

2/12, 3/5/65

All of the above have furnished reliable Information

In the past and all have been, at one time or another, members

of the MANNARINO organization

In the New Kensington, Pa., area.

on the indicated dates, the following Informants

were contacted with negative results:

Sources

Date Contacted

PH 525-6

2/8, 3/10/65

PH 521-C

2/19/65

PH 665-C-TE

2/3/65

PH 663-PC

1/15/65

PCI WILLIAM STRUBECK

1/20/65

PCI EDWARD I. ODZER

2/5/65

The period of this report precedes referenced report

because investigation Included in current report was not received

by the reporting Agent until after referenced report

submitted.

PH T-1:

PH T-2:

PH T-3:

PH T-4:

INFORMANTS

NAT FLEISCHER,

New York PCI

PH 665-C-TE

PH 526-C

PH 665-C-TE

- F

-

COVER PAGE

NW 65994 Docld:32292950 Page 4

---

## Page 5

PH 92-441

PH T-5:

PH T-6:

PH T-7:

PH T-8:

PH T-9:

PH T-10:

PH T-11:

PH T-12:

PH T-13:

PH T-14:

PH T-15:

PH T-16:

PH T-17:

PH T-18:

PH T-19:

PH T-20 :

PH T-21:

DICK MARINO, PCI

PH 521-C

PH 663-PC

PH 655-C

STEVE BRANKOVICH, PCI

ROBERT PAYTON, PCI

DONALD B. AYERS, PCI

Mrs. DEE KOONS, PCI

WILLIAM STRUBECK, PCI

VIOLET DUNNE, PCI

T. J. MACK,

Mack Supply Company,

Wilkes-Barre, Pa.

LEON A. KNARR, employee of

Mack Supply Company,

Wilkes- Barre, Pa.

PH 672-C-TE

DAVID J. MC CORMICK

341 South River Street

plains, Pa.

JOSEPH BOYLAN

70 South Landon

Street

Kingston, Pa.

Trooper EUGENE BRENNAN

Pennsylvania State Police

Wyoming, Pa.

Pretext phone call by

SA ROBERT L. BOYLAN

- G

COVER PAGE

NW 65994 Docld:32292950 Page 5

---

## Page 6

PH 92-441

PH T-22:

PH T-23:

PH 665-C-TE

Source known only to SAC

(PHf1le 92-1677-Sub A)

PH T-24:

JOSEPH DELANEY

Chief of Police

Pittston, Pa.

PH T-25:

Dun and Bradstreet report

Scranton, Pa.

It is to be noted that several "T" symbols were

utilized In order to protect the identity of PH 665-C-TE.

- H* -

COVER

• PAGE

NW 65994 Docld:32292950 Page 6

---

