# DOCID-32342730

## Page 1

Date: 10/13/99

Page: 1

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER

RECORD SERIES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

----------------===

AGENCY INFORMATION

CIA

104-10049-10355

JFK

80T01357A

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR

FROM

TO

TITLE

• DATE

PAGES

SUBJECTS

CIA

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

- MEETING WITH FABIO FREYRE

12/16/59

2

FREYRE, FABIO

PAWLEY, WILLIAM

CUBA

ANTI-CASTRO

DOCUMENT TYPE

: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : SECRET

RESTRICTIONS : 1A

CURRENT STATUS :

RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

OPENING CRITERIA

08/15/96

COMMENTS

JFKZ: F4 1996.08.15.18:30:43:810100:

CLASSIFIED

ATTACHMENT

Heleased under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act ol

992(44 USC 2107 Note]. Case#:N:

5924 Date: 10:21-201

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

_ NW 65924 Docld:32342730 Page 1

---

## Page 2

SECRET

Roow 1014

16 Deceaber 1959

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD.

BUBJECT Meeting Of Philly 100157 aDd Pablo TREYRS

1o.

vir. proyre at the jayflover Hotel at 2215 boura on 15 December.

2. Ht. Freyre reported on the prograss of bla Accion Deucratica

Cristians oxganlzatlon.. He bad just beos vialted by Doctor Tamau (a Hosan

lawyer) who leads bis group In Canaguey. Sbe 10 In Mlanl and 10 roturDlDE

•to Cuba on Dacember. 18.

she raported to hiu that thera vero 1500 von yell

Eganized In Cabizuay Proriaco.

Elva bundrod of thess vero to Da ass1goos

to tho esty of Canaguey so a resalt ol tha appreh. by Comandanto Bajo 11

which be sasd that it trouble arone the recognltion alga for the 26 of duly..

membero tas to be a blua handkerchies and shas all otbera on the streeto

should Do cut. dorn.

Ito otber 1000 noa should establiab a besebbess in

luevitas on tha north coast of Canaguey valch vould be ideal becaase tha

port can bandlo the largast ships and the stovadores at the port are reportod

antagonlatle to the present governuent. Doctor Townu reported that there

vere an additional 3000 mon svailablo in Canaguey uno coula bo usaful to the

morament right avery.

3. Doctos Fomen reported that layo Romano lars the sorts corst ot

Canaguey Province) lo being organised sa a submarina tendestons anú as a

niss1lo base, and so cho 10 allomod to so there. There lo a 8roat depth of

vator on 1ts north coast.

It 1a thought that Castro 18 going to set a trap and provcico al

uprising by. falalfyings beachbead, since he knows that sometaing ser10us

I8 betRE OrganIzed arOnad. GeDaIal PedrASA.. MOX that TOAsOn Oxtreme coutloi

•5. Doctor tomy reported an unchacked story that thirty. MiGs are

• Doing assemblod in the lavans area and that fifteen Croch pilots aro in

Harass, Freyre 10 sending's man to check this story.

6. Ar. Treyre vill obtain for 15. Pabloy the photostet of a lettes

fron the Cuban Miniater of Delonas authoriting Katherina Dalfo to mabo

costacts to purebaso trenty Banker funtor planes on the black mariot..

Sbo

has been promisod a lattor of crodit for 1l uillion dollars for tbe purchase.

Ht. Freyre's group sall trynto get a photostat of the letter of oredit.

At. PrayIas group previously had contact tith datherine tallo, but dropped

her. as unreliable.

It Is belloved that the lottor of credit 10 draun against

-1 Swiss bank nocount which 10 in the name of Fidel, Rail, and Che Guerars.

SCONCT

200666

NW 65924 Docld:32342730 Page 2

---

## Page 3

-SECHEF

• 2 .

7. Mr. Freyro has a man going into Cuba to deteralva the arms needs

for the aruy of 1500 and the 3000 reservo rapartod 1n Canaguery do 1o21 do

the 400 in Banta clara.

The freyze grouy in tiant vas sasd to number 750.under Dias

Ponnya and Col. Corsos. They are planning landing spoto 101 Cubs.

In & few

dayo a plan.ol the different air etrips 1 batanzas, Ploar del R1O abd

Habara will bo rocolred by Hit. PrayIA. Peopto at these strips are organisad

A budget to balag preparad of tho arDa

necousary for the 750 trassed non 19 M1an1 and fox the peoplo at the alrotripo.

Sir, Freyre described the norale of bis Hinal eroup as bigh, but

atressed the need to bring danaral Bedrass to Miami to meet this group and

the seed for monetary support.

the Caraguey group bes about 200,000 pesos

which will be converted into dallars and unad for arna, lit, Proyso sald

that General Fedrasa vas tendy to cono to llowl.

10, St. Parlay ontared the mortlog at this polat and a samary of the

abovo intoraation vas gives to him, Ho sald that Geperal Pedrass has s

Valtod Statos.

Mr: Prayro spors abont bla irlend Jone Ignaclo Rivero, the Director

at the DiariO de la MArInA shO has aFFived in Miant.

12. 'He sentioned tro groupa sblch hava baes trying to contact bis group.

One to the Dias LADS EXOND UhOSE apPIOACH DAs dISCOUraGed As Mr. ETeyro"s

group does not vant to have enything to do vith the 26 ol july novement.

Too otber 19 the Batista group offertag ann porer under Colonel Sanches

Honqueud..

I, Preyye Inatructed his second 1a command (Rodriguez (00ze1I0)

to confer with the Batilots group.

NW 65924 Docld:32342730 Page 3

---

