# DOCID-32392655

## Page 1

Date: 02/21/05

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER : 104-10414-10071

RECORD SERIES

: JFK.

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

RUSS HOLMES WORK FILE

DOCUMENT. INFORMATION

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM : CHIEF OF STATION, MEXICO CITY

TO : CHIEF, WH DIVISION

TITLE : DISPATCH: PBRUMEN/LIONION/ OPERATIONAL PROGRESS REPORT

DATE :

07/08/1965

PAGES

: 2

SUBJECTS : LIONION

DOCUMENT TYPE

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS

CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

COMMENTS

PAPER

SECRET

'1B

08/17/98

RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

JFK-RH07 : F133: 1998.08.17.13:25:05:950128

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note]. Case#:NW

56440 Date: 11-01-2021

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10414-10071

NW 65990 Docld:32392655 Page 1

---

## Page 2

71

ДІЗЬНІСН

DISPATCH

BECAIT

10

Chief, WH Division

INFO.

XXX

NO INDEXING REQUIREO

ONLY QUALIFIED DESK

CAN JUDGE INDEXING

Chief of Station, JMWAVE

FROM

MICROFILM

Chief of Station, Mexico City

substet

PBRUMEN/LIONION/Operational Progress Report

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

Reference: HMMA 26006, 30 April 1965

During the second quarter of 1965 (the period covered by this

the LIONION operation experienced some technical difficulties which

have not been solved to date.

Normal coverage of the target was obtained

throughout the month of April with the exposure of some 600

feet of film by

the pulse camera and 28 rolls of 36-exposure Irl-X by the Pentax/Balscope

Normal coverage continued until 27 May at which time the pulse

camera became inoperative owing to a burned-out drive motor.

removed and forwarded to Headquarters for necessary repairs

and a Pentax with

a 180 mm telephoto lens was rigged as a temporary substitute for coverage of

the Consulate entrance.

June a reconditioned pulse camera was received

and immediately placed in service.

Unfortunately, this unit failed on 27 June

and was. removed." A faulty shutter motor was to blame.

This camera was also

forwarded to Headquarters for repair and the Pentax/180 mm rig was again set

This rig is being operated by LIONION-2.

2. Morale of both agents continues high, expecially in view of the

excellent service Headquarters performed in "Issuing" new PBRUMEN passporte

Both were astounded to see their own signatures expertly

the new documents.

Headquarters help in this documentation

problem is greatly appreciated.

3. It will be recalled that in the last progress report the Station

requested Headquarters and Station IMWAVE views on forwarding LIONION photos

tO INWAVE. This request was promptly answered by fMW 13645 and photos have

- Continued-

Distribution:

_* - C/WHD

1 - COS WAVE trunke

2 • Files

CROSS REFERENCE TO

CS COPY.

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

HMMA 26576

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

50 - 6.12

DATE

HOS FILE NUMBER

8 July 1965

50-6-122/3

NW 65990 Docld:32392655 Page 2

---

## Page 3

LUNINUATION OF

DISPATCH

SECHET

IMMA 26576

sacordingly been sent to IMWAYE which, by having AMMUG-1 screen them, has

already made one important DGI Identification.

4. During the period under review a dispatch covering details of the

LIONION pulse camera operation (HMMA 26414, 22 June) was forwarded to KURIOT.

5. With reinforcements for the Station's PBRUMEN Section due to

arrive shortly, it is expected that more operational exploitation of the

excellent LIONION production will result in short order.

Willard C. CURTIS

NW 65990 Docld:32392655 Page 3

---

