# DOCID-32356691

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER

104-10102-10143

RECORD

SERIES

JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

:

80T01357A

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

AGENCY ORIGINATOR

: CIA

FROM

TO

TITLE

DATE

PAGES

:

CHRONOLOGICAL SUMMARY: GILBERTO NOLASCO ALVARADO UGARTE

10/20/1964

24

SUBJECTS : ALVARADO UGARTE

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS : 1A 1B

CURRENT STATUS: RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 07/20/93

COMMENTS : JFK34 : F13: 1993.07.20.08:31:40:280530

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note]. Case#:NW

55924 Date: 10-25-2021

----------=---

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10102-10143

NW 65924 Docld:32356691 Page 1

---

## Page 2

-SECRET

CHRONOLOGICAL SUMMARY: Gilberto Nolasco ALVARADO Ugarte

19 September 1963.

According to ALVARADO's statements made during an inter

view conducted in the morning of 26 November 1963 by an American

Embassy security afficer and a member of the Mexico Station in

Mexico City, ALVARADO went at noon on 18 September to the Cuban

Consulate to turn over passport photographs to the Cuban Consul

Eusebio AZCUE.

'e"'

While standing by a rest room off a passage.

way leading to a patio; ALVARADO saw a group of three persons con-

versing on the patio a few feet away.

One man was a tall, thin

Negro with reddish hair, obviously dyed. He had prominent cheek

bones, and a noticeable scar on the lower right side of his chin.

He spoke radpidly with a Cuban accent and did speak some English.

Another member of the groud was a white

person whom ALVARADO had

seen previously, in the waiting room, carrying a Canadian passport.

The Canadian had green eyes, blondish hair combed in an "existen-

tialist manner with a pompadour. He was wearing dark eyeglasses

of a type with a mirror like reflection on the outer surface. The

third member of the group was Lee Harvey OSWALD. He was waering a

black sport coat, a buttoned up white shirt with short collar tabs,

no tie, gray pants,

and clear eyeglasses

ALVARADO saw a tall Cuban join the group momentarily and

pass American currency to the Negro. This unidentified Cuban ap

parently came out of AZCUE's office onto the patio. ALVARADO des-

cribed the Cuban as a tall, solidly built mulatto, with curly hair,

who appeared to be about 37 years old. He was wearing a brown suit

and a red-striped tie.

ALVARADO never

saw this man again after

18

September.

ALVARADO-claimed he overheard the following conversation

between the Negro and OSWALD:

Negro (in English): "I want to kill the man"

OSWALD

You're not man enough. I can do

it."

SEGRET

#12812

NW 65924 Docldi32356691 Page 2

---

## Page 3

SECRET

Negro (in Spanish) :

'"I can't go with you. I have a lot

to do."

OSWALD

'The people are waiting for me back

there."

The Negro gave OSWALD six thousand five hundred dollars

in large denomination US bills saying:: "This isn't much." Of the

sum, one thousand five hundred dorlars was for extra expenses.

. The

Negro also gave him about 200 Mexican pesos.

Later, ALVARADO saw a pretty girl, whom he betieved to be.

a Cuban employee of the Consulate, sive OSWALD an abrazo embrace

and tell him she was living at Callo Juarez number 107 where he

could find her.

The girl appeared to about 20 years old and had

manners which reminded ALVARADO Of a prostitute.

OSWALD, the Negro

and the Canadian then went upstairs.

ALVARADO: left the building momentarily to buy popsicle

on the corner; he saw the above three men leave by the Embassy gate

near the corner: of Tacubaya where they entered a parked black car,

possibly a Chrolet.

At the end of September, ALVARADO telephoned the American

Embassy several times to report his belief that someone important

in the United States was to be killed.

When ALVARADO Saw OSWALD's photograph in the newspaper,

he again contacted the Embassy on 25 November.

MEXT -7069 (IN 68376) , 26 November 19631

25 November 1963

ALVARADO called the United States Embassy: That same

evening he met with the Embassy security officer.

[MEXL-7168 (IN 70860), 30 November 1963]

[Comment: According to the Mexican police report of the interroga:

tion of ALVARADO, the latter called the American Embassy and

"succeeded in speaking to a high official with whom he made an ap-

pointment for that same day at 5:30 p.m. near the Hotel Maria

IsabeI. ]

SEGRET

NW 65924 Docld:32356691 Page 3.

---

## Page 4

SEGRET

Two individuals appeared for the 5:30

p.m. appointment.

They identified themselves and were carrying the credentials.of

FBI agents.* ALVARADO told about his seeing OSWALD, etc. Another

appointment was made for 9:15 the next morning at the Jena Restau-

rant.

[HMMA-22561, 5 December. 1963; CSCI-5/779,136, 13 December 1963]

[*Comment: The two individuals were SNIGHT, the Embassy security

officer, -and A. C. PLAMBECK (P), Mexican Station officer

ALVARADE

may lave mistaken Embassy identification documents for FBI ereden

tials 1

25. November 1965

ALVARADO claimed inter alia that two persons were in the

Cuban Embassy the morning of -25 November 1963 at 1100 who are 10-3

volved in the plot to assassinate President Kennedy. He described

them as one being a white person with a large cleft nose. The

other had closed cropped hair with a copote [sicj.*

23.244

ALVARADO claims that on the 18th of September, he was in

the Cuban Embassy in Mexico Gity and he saw Lee Harvey OSWALD Fe.

ceive $6, 5000

OSWALD was speaking with a Begro, about 29 years of

age, who had a scar on his jaw, and had reddish hair which is pros

bably tinted. The Negro spoke English well and might be a North

American. OSWALD was speaking of eliminating someone. The Negro

then said he was sorry that he could accompany OSWALD, saying:

"You understand my situation." To which OSWALD replied:

"That's

all right, I can do this myself."

The "source"' (ALVARADO?) was of the opinion that OSWALD

had come from Havana. When OSWALD entered (the Consulate ?) he

was affectionately greeted by a female employee of the Cuban Em-

bassy, who has blue eyes and lives at Calle Juarez 407.

"The "source" also stated that OSWALD was given $1,500

for extra expenses. Source stated that when he went to the bath:

room he saw OSWALD counting the money, in American dollars, on the

patio which is adjacent.

SECRET

NW 65924 Docld 32356691 Page 4m

---

## Page 5

4

SECRET

[Blind memorandum dated 25 November 1963]

[*Comment: There is no indication in the file that any follow-up

was made on the information given in this paragraph...This parti

cular information appears no where else in ALVARADO's interroga-

tions.l

26 November 1963

ALVARADO meets the same two men from the Embassy whom he

had the evening before, at the Jena Restaurant on the Avenida More

los and the Paseo de la Reforma. The two men were accompanied by.

a third man named Rodolfo GAVALDON•

ALVARADO went with these three

men to the cafeteria of the Hotel Erancis after which they drove

up and down a few streets. ALVARADO told them again what he had

observed in the Cuban Consulate and they gave him 100 pesos

and

told him they woudl call him at the number: 41-07-31, which is the

telephone number of the place where ALVARADO was living. ALVARADO

was called the same day at 8.45 p.m. and was told to meet the three

men later in front of the Juarez monument.

Blind memorandum, dated 25 November 1963; Memorandun to Clark

ANDERSON, Legal Attache, dated 29 November 1963; And HMMA-22561

5 December 1963, and CSCI -3/779,136, 13 December 1963. 1

26 November 1963

Station officer and local security officer are inter-

viewing a Nicaraguan who claims that on 18 September he saw Lee

OSWALD received six thousand five hundred dollars during a meeting

Inside the Cuban Embassy in Mexico City.

[MEXI-7067 (IN 68291), 26 November 19637

[Comment: This cable was the first report-to Headquarters on the

allegations made by ALVARADO.]

26 November 1963

At the appointed place and time the evening of 26 Novem-

ber, Rodoifo GAVALDON meets ALAVARADO.

They take a cab

to the

corner of the Hotel Maria Isabel where another American is waiting

SacheT

NW 65924 Docld:32356691 Page 5

---

## Page 6

•5.-

SECRET

for them; together they

cross

the street and enter an apartment in

a building at the corner of Oxford and Reforma. After talking with

these men, ALVARADO received 500 pesos and was told to move to a

hotel and to tell them which hotel he moved into.

[HMMA - 22561, 5 December 1963; CSCI-3/779,136, 13 December 1963]

SECRET

NW 65924 Docld:32356691 Page 6

---

## Page 7

SECRET

26 November 1963 (date of cable)

Managua Station reports on identity of ALVARADO and

suggests that "Should case develop to point where Mexico and Head-

quarters believe it desirable to break ALVARADO, the Station

could probably arrange to have NIC officer who handled him come to

Mexico to question him.*

MANA- 4609 (IN 68452), 26 November 1963)

(Comment: NIC = Nicaraguan Security Service.)

26 November 1963 (date of dissemination)

Dissemination by cable to the FBl, State,

and the White

House reporting preliminary results of ALVARADO in

terrogation an

results of Headquarters name trace.

• ліитн..

On 26 November 1963 Gilberto ALVARADO, a

professed Castroite Nicaraguan born 31. January

1940 in Ciudad Rama, Zelaya, Nicaragua, came.

to the American Embassy in Mexico and made a

statement about Lee OSWALD. : He said that on

1s September 1963 he saw Lee OSNALD rECEIvE

six thousand five hundred dollars-in a meeting

inside the Cuban Embassy in Mexico City.

..0154

"2. About himself, ALVARADO said he in Mexica

City awaiting false documentation so he could

go to Cuba for sabotage training. He name

three other members of his organization in Ni-

caragua/as Juan LORILLO, Rolan ALVARADO, and

CarlOS FONSECA Amador. Questioning Of ALVARADO

is continuing.

n3. (Comment:

Gilberto ALVARADO is a well-known

Nicaraguan communist underground member who is

also a regular informant of the Nicaraguan Security

Service and officer of which has provided this

Agency with his reports for over a year. We con-

sider his reliability to be questionable although

he has not been wholly discredited... The-other men

he names are well-known Nicaraguan communists.

files of this Agency does not show

where Lee OSWALD actually was on 18 September 1963

when ALVARADO says he saw OSWALD in the Cuban Em-

bassy in Mexico, but based on the information

avallable to this Agency as of this date OSWALI

visited the Cuban Embassy in Mexico for the first

time after 25 September 1963.)".

[DIR 85089, 26 November 1963)

27 November 1963

Headquarters suggests to Mexico Station that "In your

investigation, suggest you contact ALVARADO's NIC case officer

in

SEGRET

NW 65924 Docld:32356691 Page 7

---

## Page 8

SECRET

in Mexico City and ask him whether ALVARADO has ever told him this

story or anything like it."

[DIR 85178, 27 November 1963]

27 November 1963

Headquarters tells Mexico Station that "After considera-

tion by BRENT and KNIGHT, we feel that investigation

and analysis

of ALVARADO's story should be pursued further before more excutive

action is taken."

[DIR 85198, 27 November 1963]

27 November 1963 (date of dissemination)

Headquarters makes dissemination to FBI, State, and the

White House incorporating information forwarded to Headquarters

In MEXI-7069 (IN 68376, 26 November 1963 (9 V=)

[DIR 851995 27 November 19631

27 November 1963-

ALVARADO's story being checked as thoroughly as Station

assets make possible.

He also being re-interviewed in much greater

assass

29337755922022

detail.

ALVARADO is being moved to safe address.

IMEXI-7093. (TV 68530) • 27 November, 19031

27 November 1963 (date of cable)

-Iwo Station officers interviewed ALVARADO in safehouse

again night of 26 November. ALVARADO's story remained substan-

tially the same. ALVARADO says he has been to Cuban Consulate on

2 or 3 September, 15 or 16 September, 18 September, 26 September.

and 25 November. The Station comments that "Station photographic

coverage of the Cuban Embassy did not include consulate gate until

October." ALVARADO did not appear in photographs of persons using

Embassy gate. He admits visiting the soviet Embassy for or times;

however, he has not been identified in photographic coverage of

Soviet Embassy.

(MEXI-7098 (IN 69137), 27 November 1963)

SEDIET

NW 65924. Docld:32356691 Page 8

---

## Page 9

27 November 1963

SECRET

Ambassador MANN send message via CIA channels to RUSK,

McCONE, and HOOVER in which he suggest inter alia that Washington

"should urgently consider feasibility of requesting Mexican authori

ties to arrest for interrogation: Eusebio AZCUE, Luisa CALDERON;

and Alfredo MIRABAL."

fMEXI-7101 (IN 69225), 27 November 19631

27 November 1963 (date of cable)

FBI says OSWALD applied for unemployment insurance in

New Orleans on I September, one day before ALVARADO says he saw

him in Cuban Embassy, Mexico. FBI checking all airlines to see if

ho could have flown to Mexico by 18 September.

He was in New

Orleans on 25 September and left that day for Texas without paying

his rent. He is believed to have been without funds during this

period.

FBI says his New Orleans landlady believes he was there

continuously between 17 and 25 September.

[DIR 85258, 27 November 19631

27 November 1963 (date of cable)

According to Mexico Station, ALVARADO story after_ two in-

stallments tends prove only that he has been in Cuban Embassy and

knows some of employees by sight, name or both. To resolve doubt

only effective way is to have cooperation of Major JEREZ directed

by his headquarters in interrogating ALVARADO,

If HQ agrees sug-

gest he be cabled urgently to cooperate without question with

American officer who will contact him morning 28 November.

Station

wishes JEREZ be present during interrogation to throw all Nicaragua

official weight behind it, but not to participate except in portion

relative ALVARADO'S alleged mission for JEREZ.

MEXI- 7107 (IN 09310), 27 November 1965]

27 November 1963

di.

Headquarters states that "in the face of mounting evi-

dence that ALVARADO is fabricating his story of seeing

OSWALD take money in the Cuban Embassy, urge you fol-

low up with his loca! NIC case officer and avail yourself

SECRET

NW 65924 Docld:32356691 Page 9

---

## Page 10

.9

SECRET

of the help of the NIC service, which can

send (WHEELOCK),. a good. CIA asset, to help

in the interrogation.

We find it incredible

that the cubans would brief and pay an assassin

in front of a NIC interloper.

We think it pos-

sible or even likely that he has been in and out

of the Cuban Embassy as a NIC agent trying to

infiltrate Cuba and has picked up the names and

faces there in so doing.

All he has said

OSWALD he could have gotten from the newspapers,

except for certain incorrect items such as his

statement that OSWALD wore glasses.

7. The fact that ALVARADO is a calm

nice, and

intelligent.young man does not mean he 1s not

fabricator.

FYI we and other agencies are being

flooded by fabrications on

the OSWALD case from

several continents, some originating with people

on the fringes of the intelligence business.

Such fabrication are not usually done for money,

but out of sickly fancy and a desire to get into

the intelligence game

3. We do not think it a remarkable coincidence

that both DORTICOS and ALVARADO talk about money

paid to OSWALD. For one thing, pay for an assassin

is a factor which immediately rises in the mind of

expert. and layman alike.

Secondly, DORTICOS may

have heard through some Russian or Cuban source

in the Mexican Government that DURAN was asked

whether the Cubans paid OSWALD for the alleged

assignment.

is beyone

searehin

into his

Hig

Rexe

E0740S759F6

pro

hin baske

[PIR aptain

27 November 1963]

Captain Franklin Anthony WHEELOCK Garcia. (Name encrypted in

text.)

28 November 1963 (date of cable)

FBI says thets follow-up Investigation of OSWALD's act

vities has rpoduced "reasonable indications" that he was in New

Orleans on 19 September 1963. This, coupled with cartier evidence

that he was in New Orleans applying for unemployment insurance on

17 September 1963, means OSWALD would have had to fly to Mexico and

back between 17 and 19 September in order to be at the Cuban Embassy

2. 22003

getting his pay-off, as ALVARADO claims, on 18 September. With

this added information, believe Mexico can confidently regard

ALVARADO as fabricator and tailor interrogation accordingly.

[DIR 85653, 28 November 1963]

SECRET

NW 65924 Docld:32356691 Page 10

---

## Page 11

28 November 1963

9 :

-SEGREF

Headquarters

informs Mexico that

"1.

We have just heard by phone from KINGMAN,

who is at home, that MEXI evaluation of ALVARADO

story may have been seriously warped by a piece

of misinformation which has crept into this case.

From

conversation with your officers,

KINGMAN

has the impression that they believe there is

other evidence that Lee OSWALD made a bank de:

posit of five thousand dollars in

the United

States after he got back from Mexico on 3 October

1963. This would tend, if true,

to corroborate

ALVARADO's story that he saw OSWALD get five

thousand for the job and fifteen hundred for ex-

penses.

KINGMAN thinks he heard that CURTIS

Winston SCOTT) got the information about the

bank deposit from an FBI man named Clark.

"2. We know of no such bank deposit and have n

never heard of, one.

FBI here has just affirmed

they never heard this story. The story of the

doposit of five thousand dollars is therefore

almost certainly erroneous. Please check it

witha FBI: there.

We have advised FBI that this

rumor exists in Mexico.

13.

FBI has just levied on us, official request

for full information on source and origin of

rumor about a five thousand dollar bank deposit"

[DIR 85654, 28 November 1963]

28 November 1963

Headquarters stresses to Mexico that "there should

be no let down in your effort to follow all leads and investigate

all facts which bear on this case. We have by no means excluded

the possibility that other as yet unknown persons may have been-in

volved or even that other powers may have played a role.

Please

continue all your caverage of Soviet and Cuban installations and

your liaison with Mexicans."

[DIR 85655, 28 November 19631

[Comment: This remark by Headquarters was in support of its posi-

tion in response_to Ambassador MANN's earlier message, in which

Headquarters expressed its distinct feeling that "the

Ambassador

is pushing this case too hard, and . : might well create flap

with Cubans which could have serious repercussions."]

SECRET

NW 65924 Docld:32356691 Page 11

---

## Page 12

28. November 1963

SECRET

Mexico Station requests OPIM authoritization turn ALVARADO

over to Mexican authorities with a brief explanation he claims to

be. witness. to payoff to OSWALD in Cuban consulate 18 September,

admits is in Mexico Illegally, admits Communist Party membership,

admits visits to Soviet Embassy, claims that Cuban consulate now

involved in documenting him with false Mexican papers for travel

to Cuba. Latter point alone would give Mexican authorities good

reason to subject him to detailed interrogation.

[MEXI - 7113 (IN

, 28 November 1963]

28 November 1963

Headquarters responded to the Station's request (see

above) by saying not to turn ALVARADO over to the Mexicans.

"We

have officially asked the FBI for their position on this move, and

pending the FBI's answer and our final consideration, ALVARADO

should notibe surfaced to the Mexicans or turned over to them.

#2. Advise us if the FBI in Mexico attempts to get you

to act one way of the other on the question of turning ALVARADO

over to the Mexicans."

Headquarters concludes its message to Mexico by commentin

22/2200 20%

that barry KEENAN, an FBI agent, is now in Mexico.:

He was sent

especially to follow up leads on the entire assassination.

Head:

quarters asks that the station cooperate with him fully.

(DIR 85661, 28 November 19631

28 November 1963 (date of dissemination)

Headquarters disseminates by cable to the FBI, State,

and the White House, the information obtained from ALVARADO during

night of 26 November 1903.

Information obtained from ALVARADO. on

the Tatter date was forwarded to Headquarters in MEXI 7098 (IN

69127), 27 November 1963. (See appropriate entry above.)

[DIR 85662, 28 November 1963}

28 tovember

1963

-SEGRET

NW 65924- Docld:32356691 Page 12

---

## Page 13

SECRET

28 November 1963

Mexico Station reports that

• "1. Mr. Clark ANDERSON, Legal Attache, told

the COS and Ambassador MANN af rumor that

'OSWALD had deposited five thousand dollars

in a bank in the United States'.

On 27 November Ambassador in presence

of COS asked ANDERSON about this again and

ANDERSON said rumor was on television and

-radio in Mexico.

ANDERSON said he had no

information from his Headquarters to con-

firm or deny this. He said he would check

his Headquarters.

"3. COS has not heard rumor regarding five

thousand dollar deposit on television of

radio, but feels sure ANDERSON or some of

his office do hear this.

This Station had

no additional information concerning this;

but assume ALVARADO may have heard same

radio or television report and thus have had

basist for five thousand dollar payment.

[MEXI-7114 (IN 69621), 28 November 19631

28 November 1963-

The Managua Station in Nicaragua stated that it had

requested (General Gustavo MONTIEL)*

cooperation Mexico through Major JEREZ and if

possible by, sending:

Captain WHEELOCK) to

Mexico. MONTIEL Said ALVARADO in Mexico with

out (Service's) authority and passed off sug

gestion use JEREZ but agreed immediately to

send WHEELOCK+

He (WHEELOCK) now in

process getting visa and plane reservations

and will probably be in Mexico today unless

Headquarters and Mexico wish to cancel.

"2-Even though his story regarding OSWALD

may be false it possible he has been working

other angle to penetrate Cubans and (WHEELOCK)

will be able to assist in getting facts straight."

[MANA-4613 (IN 69629) 28 November 19631

[* General Gustavo MONTIEL, Chief of Intelligence Service,

Nicaraguan Army- (Name encrypted in text.

Major Roger JEREZ Alfaro, Military Attache, Nicaraguan

Embassy, Mexico City-

Captain Franklin Anthony WHEELOCK Garcia, Chief of Anti-

Communist Section of the Office of National Security. : (name

encrypted in text.)

NW 65924 Docld:32356691 Page 13

SECRET

---

## Page 14

- 10

SEGRET

over to Mexican authorities and that the Agency

request Mexican

authorities to interrogate

ALVARADO in detail.

"2..

The FBI reports that it understands that

Mexican-authorities have_acapability. of poly-

graphing and requests that the Agency request

Mexican authorities that he be polygraphed.

The FBI expressed a desire to have the

results of the interrogation

as soon as possible

and that the Legal Attache be kept advised of

devetopments.

"A,. The FBI takes the position that inasmuch as

Silvia DURAN may be released some time today (28

November), according to information which the FBI

has from the Legal Attache, ALVARADO should be

turned over to the Mexican as soon as possible,

so-that their, stories can be checked against each

other.

"S. Mexico Station is instructed to carry out the

FBI's requests set out above.

tion to the Legal Attache.-

Give full coopera

[DIR 85663, 28 November 1963]

28 November 1963

Manuagua Station reports that Franklin Anthony WHEELOCK

Garcia, a Captain National, and chief of the Anti-Communist Section

of the Office of National Security, will arrive in Mexico at 0945

on 29 November 1963.

MANA-4614 (IN 68671) , 28 November 1963]

28 November 1963 (date of dissemination)

Headquarters disseminates the following to the FBI,

State Department, and White House:

"'Acting on a request made to this Agency by

the Federal Bureau of Investigation on 28

November 1963, our Agency is instructing its

attice in Mexico City to turn over silberto

ALVARADO, Nicaraguan informant who claims that

he saw Lee OSWALD accept six thousand five

hundred dollars in the Cuban Embassy in Mexico

City on 18 September 1963 to assassinate Presi-

dent Kennedy, to officials of the Mexican Minis-

try of Government for further interrogation and

investigation.

On 28 November, ALVARADO had

still not changed his story, despite increasing

doubt that it was true.

The Nicaraguan Interli

gence Service, for which ALVARADO once worked,

Is dispatching a senior offictal to Mexico City

to assist in the interrogation and investigation

at the discretion of the Federal Bureau of In-

vestigation.: Notification of the appropriate

StORET

NW 65924 Docld:32356691 Page 14

---

## Page 15

- :14

SEGRET

Mexican office for

the turnover

effected

at 1630 Washington time on 28.

November 1963."

(DIR 85666; 29 November 19631

[Comment: This cable is the first time that President Kennedy

was mentioned as the target of OSWALD's alleged mission described

by ALVARADO. The conversation between the red-haired Negro and

OSWALD; as reported by ALVARADO, makes no mention of a specific

person.]

28 November 1963

Mexico Station requests that a Spanish-speaking poly-

graph operator be made available for ALVARADO and possibly for

others

[MEXI - 7120 CIN

1, 28 November 1963]

28 November 1963

Headquarters responds that there is no Spanish-speaking

polygraph operator.

#2. For reasons of security and compartmenta-

tion, prefer not to have Agency operator double

tracked with Mexican operator. Would only con-

fuse the case. Prefer to wait until all Mexi-

can resources exhausted before we decide if we

want to resume management of case, including

403•

Seasoned operators available here on short

notice.

[DIR 85667, 28 November 1963]

28 November 1963

Mexico Station reports that

COS in contact with acting Minister of

Gobernacion Luis ECHEVARRIA at 1430 hrs Mexi-

co City time and ECHEVARRIA grateful that

ALVARADO being turned over to Gobernacion.

"2. ECHEVARRIA was given ALVARADO'S present

•addressand alias under which he registered:

Mexicans will pick him up and question him

on basis. of very brief story given ECHEVARRIA

by cos.

IMEXI-7124 (IN

7, 29 November 1963)

SEGRET

NW 65924 Docld:32356691 Page 15

---

## Page 16

SECRET

29 November 1963

Mexico Station reports that the COs is handling the

OSWALD case personally and that continuous liaison with the

Ambassador and the Legal Attache is necessary... The COS wishes

to control these contacts personally.

[MEXI-7126 (IN 70104), Z9 November 1963)

29 November 1963

An official of the Ministry of Governacion reported to

the Station that ALVARADO claims he present inside: the Cuban Em-

bassy when OSWALD given six thousand five hundred dollars:

The

SS423

Station comments that ALVARADO gave the Mexicans the same story

he gave Station officers. One difference is that ALVARADO. failed

to identify Silvia DURAN from several photographs he was shown.

ALVARADO had identified her when he was being questioned by the

Station

[MEXI-7127 (IN 70145), 29 November 1963]

29 November 1963

Headquarters asks Mexico Station"

(to) continue

to keep us filled in on status of interrogation of Silvia DURAN,

ALVARADO, and others implicated as fast as you can get information.

We have no other ready source of information on these cases. Re-

quest you utilize capable officer for liaison with Gobernacion to

skim off details and relay them to your office for cabling to us.

at regular intervals. Request status report,

even negative, by

0900 Mexico time. Be sure to keep us informed of what information

if any is leaked to public information media."

[DIR 85672, 29 November 1963]

29 November 1963-

In the interest of speed, Headquarters wishes to be

"sure that you are immediately giving the Legal Attache everything

you get about ALVARADQ and DURAN so the Legal Attache in Mexico

City can cablé the same data direct to FBI Headquarters. Please

-SEGRE

NW 65924 Docld:32356691 Page 16

---

## Page 17

-SEGRET

satisfy yourself that the Legal Attache there has adequate commo

facilities and secretarial staff to keep its Headquarters informed

as fast as you keep us informed, and advise us on this.

"2.

If you find that the Legal Attache there does not

have adequate commo or staff and wants to rely on us to relay the

material, they may of sourse send messages right through out

channels, or you can rely on us to relay the information as we

have been."

[DIR 8.5712, 29 November 1963]

29 November 1963-

tating that

The Mexico Station responded to the above message by

The Legal Attache is locally being advised

by COS personally of everything Station learns

concerning OSWALD case and, now, on ALVARADO

interrogation.

"2. Fell sure that Legal Attache's office, which

almost Same size as the Station, has adequate

staff for reporting needs.

Usual procedure here is that COS notifies

Headquarters, reports to the Legal Attache and

to the Ambassador orally then subsequently ad-

vises the Legal Attache by memorandum:

*4- Headquarters is assured that all information

known to Station on these cases is being given to

them and shortly after information obtained r.

[MEXT 7128- (IN 7016225

29 November 1963}

'л:"

29 November 1963 (date of dissemination)

Headquarters disseminates to the FBI, State department

and the White House that "The first very sketchy report on the pro

...p-=-.,

gress of the Mexican official interrogation of Gilberto ALVARADO,

3-98

shows he is telling essentially the same story.

The

Mexican official doing the interrogation of ALVARADO says he

doubts' ALVARADO's story and will begin work to 'break' him."

[DER 85744, 29 November 19637

29 November 1963

Chief of Mexico Station forwards memorandum to Mr. Clarki

SEGRET

NW 65924 Docld:32356691 Page 17

---

## Page 18

SECRET

D. ANDERSON, Legal Attache, containing the results of three inter

views, conducted by the local security officer and members of the

Mexican Station on 26 November 1963, of Gilberto Nolasco ALVARADO

Ugarte.

[See memorandum for complete text.]

29 November 1963

Official of Ministry of Gobernacion stated that after

his first session with ALVARADO he believed ALVARADO's story to be

a fantastic lie; after second session and all previous and interim

interrogations, ALVARADO sticks to same story on OSWALD: Official.

stated "Although this still preliminary, either ALVARADO is telling

the truth essentially or he is the best liar I have talked to in my

many years and I have talked to some of the biggest." He is in-

clined to believe ALVARADO. is telling, the truth in general outline,

but believes he is mixed up on dates:

[MEXI - 7156 CIN

2), 29 November 19631

29 November 1963

Mexico Station reports that Captain WHEELOCK has arrived

in Mexico City and is staying at the Geneve Hotel:

(Ibid.]

29 November 1963

Captain WHEELOCK meets with official from Ministry of

Gobernacion; he tells the afficial that ALVARADO has been 75

accurate in his reporting and had had access to and furnished good

information on communism in the past. WHEELOCK said, however,

ALVARADO is inclined to "go off on his own" at times and impossible

to control.

[MEXI-7168 (IN 70860) , 30 November 1963]

39 November 1963

At 1030 hours (Mexico City time), official from Ministry

of Gobernacion told the Chief of Station that' ALVARADO has signed

a statement saying that story of seeing OSWALD inside the Cuban

Embassy is completely false: He also stated that he had not

-SECRET

NW 65924 Docld:32356691 Page 18

---

## Page 19

13

SECHEF

seen anyone handed money by Cuban consular officers.

He said too

he had not called the U.S. Embassy (as he had previously.

claimed)

on 20 September to warn them. His first call to the Embassy was

on 25 November, the evening he saw the U.S: Embassy security

officer.

(MEXI- 7168 (IN 70860), 30 November 1963)

30 November 1963

Mexico Station reports that the Legal Attache is being

informed of the above information fas well as other information

contained in MEXI, 7168)

DEXT -7168 (IN 70860), 30 November 1963)

30 November 1963 (date of dissemination)

Headquarters disseminates informatton to FBI, State

Department, and the White House, that ALVARADO admitted his story

was a fabrication

[DIR 86063, 30 November 1963)

30 November 1963

Headquarters asks the Station obtain all details on

ALVARADO' confession

The Station is asked to "continue to follow

all leads and tips. The question bf whether OSWALD acted solely

on his own has still not been finally resolved:

-[DER 86064, 30 November 19631

2 December: 1963

Captain WHEELOCK saw ALVARADO during afternoon for first

22

time. Meeting lasted only seven minutes..

- In brief interview in

company of two Mexican officials, ALVARADO reverted to his pre-

vious story.

He clained he did see OSWAlD, did call the l.'s.

Embassy to report. - (Embassy investigation does not support latter

statement.) He went to say that he told the Mexicans he was fabri

cating because he was "mentally mistreated"

, i.e., threatened with

physical harm, although he was not actually physically mistreated.

SEGRET

NW 65924 Docld:32356691 Page 19

---

## Page 20

18-

WHEELOCK said he unable to come to any definite conclusion as to

ALVARADO's veracity; however, he would be able to do so once he re

turned to Managua and had chance to complete the interrogation.

(NB: ALVARADO waS to be deported to Nicaragua on 4 December.)

[MEXI 7203. (IN 71702), 2 December 1963]

3 December 1963

Headquarters tells Mexico Station that although we are

confident that ALVARADO is a fabricator and that his retraction

of his confession is false, it has been decided that he should be

0/3221

placed on the polygraph. Headquarters asks that Station arrange

to have ALVARADO to be released to us for several days and ask

WHEELOCK to remain in Mexico to assist.

Calvin DAVIS of the Office of Security will arrive on

4 December. Polygraph should be administered in safehouse and all

sessions should be recorded.

DAVIS will be in charge of the poly

graph interview, however, he will be assisted by Clark ANDERSON,

who has been selected here as interpreter.

The FBI will notify

ANDERSON of this. The idea is that ANDERSON would be able to tes=

tify at any. later hearing.

[DIR 86563, 3 December 1963)

3 December 1963.

ECHEVARRIA, acting minister of Gobernacion, agrees to

permit the COS to "borrow" ALVARADO. Station submits plan for

handling LAVARADO:

a. Clark ANDERSON and Joe GARCIA of Legal Attache

office to pick up ALVARADO Erom Gobernacion.

b. ALVARADO will be taken to safehouse or hotel

suite.

C. ANDERSON To GARCIA Will act as interpreters.

¿. Plan to, "borroW" ALVARADO early morning of

5 December and return him that evening

[MEXI 7222 (IN 72877), 3 December 19631

SECRET

NW 65924 Docid:32356691 Page 20

---

## Page 21

SECRET

4 December 1963

Headquarters approves Station's plan and adds that the

"exact role af the FBI men is up to their local chief . • .

The FBI has specified that Mr. ANDERSON act as their participant

in the interrogation and any variance should have approval of Mr:

ANDERSON •

(DIR 86621, 4 December 19637

5 December 1963

More plans by Station for interrogation of ALVARADO.

MEXT -7256- (IN 14275)n 5 December 19631,

5.: December 1963

Mexican Station forwards copies of Mexican interrogation

report on Gilberto ALVARADO Ugarte.

Station notes that a copy of

this report was handed to the Legal Attache:

[HMMA - 22561, 5 December 1963)

5 December 1963-9

Preliminary questioning of ALVARADO took place

IMEXI 7267 (IN 74696) , 6 December 1963]

6 December 1963

ALVARADO submitted to examination by polygraph.

The

results of this

examination indicated that he was fabricating his

story. Interrogation revealed that ALVARADO was unsure as to the

day of the week he allegedly saw OSWALD: He thinks it was on Tues-

day which would have been 17 September. When ALVARADO was shown

a series of photographs during the testing, deception patteras

became evident. When he was contrinted with this he answered that

he had the utmost confidence in the polygraph and that it must be

correct. The interrogation was concluded with ALVARADO admitting

he must have made. "honest mistake" in relating original story in

his identification of OSWALD.

ALVARADO to be held by the Mexicans until 9 December

[MEXI-7289 (IN 75588), 7 December 1963]

NW 65924 Docld:32356691 Page 21

SECRET

---

## Page 22

•SEGRET

7 December 1963 (date of dissemination)

Headquarters cables a dissemination to the FBI on the

results of the examination by polygraph of Giberto ALVARADO.

"The re-interrogation of Gilberto ALVARADO,

informant who claimed to have

seen Lee OSWALD receive money

Kennedy, has been concluded.

City Station advises us that ALVARADO admitted

he must have been mistaken in saying that he

saw OSWALD in the Cuban Embassy.: Also, he was

uncertain of the date on which he might have 220

seen someone like OSWALD and thought it must

have been on a Tuesday, which would have made

it 17 September 1963.

Although the final

report of the polygraph interview

is not yet

available, the preliminary finding is that

ALVARADO evidenced deception reactions when

Stalking about OSWALD. 610

'It is expected that ALVARADO will be deported

to Nicaragua on 9 December 1963

NA representative of your Bureau participated

in the interrogation of ALVARADO:

DIR 8766757 December 1963J

7 December: 1963-

An official of

the Ministry of Gobernacion advised the

Chief of Station that ALVARADO will be returned to Managua by

TACA flight no. 773 leaving Mexico at 0930 hours on 8 December:

MEXT -7290 (IN 75835), 1 December 19631

13 December 1963 (date of dissemination)

Headquarters forwards a translation of the Mexican

police interrogation report on Gilberto ALVARADO. to the FBI:

'1. Attached is a translation of the Mexican

police interrogation report on Gilberto:

ALVARADO, Nicaraguan who claimed to have seen

Lee: OSWALD accept $6500 in the Cuban Embassy

in Mexico City to assassinate President

Kennedy. The report states that ALVARADO-re-

tracted these assertions and admitted that he

made them to induce the U.S. to take stronger

action against Cuba.

"2..

The two persons whom ALVARADO met and to

whom he first

told his story are undoubtedly

officers of. this Ageney. His claim that they

used FBI credentials 15, of course,

absolutely

false, Our officers use no credentials in

Mexico City.

"3.

As you know, ALVARADO retracted the con-

fession of fabrication which he made to the

- NW 65924 Docld:32356691 Page 22

---

## Page 23

22

19

wall.

Mexican police and had to be reinterro

gated by representatives of this Agency

and your

Bureau.

This later interroga-

tion showed that he was probably lying."

[CSCI 3/779,136. 13 December 1963. (Comment: Translation was

made of the Mexican police report forwarded to Headquarters as

an attachment to HMMA-22561, 5. December 1963:1

31-January 1964

The Agency forwards a memorandum to the Warren Commission

enclosing a presentation of the information developed by CIA on or

about Lee Harvey OSWALD in Mexico City. A summary of the informa-

tion relating to the monetary payment to OSWALD and the investiga

tion of this allegation appears on pages ilthrough 14 of the en

closure.

[Memorandum for MraJ. Lee RANKIN, dated 31 January 1964, subject:

Information Developed by CIA on the Activity of Lee Harvey OSWALD

in Mexico City, 28 September - 3 October 1963.J

21. April 1964

The General Counsel, J. Lee RANKIN, of the Warren Commis

sion forwards the following memorandum to the Deputy Directer for

Plans:

"On behalf of the Commission I would like

to thank you and your representatives for

the

fine cooperation which was extended to represen-

tatives of the Commission during the course of

their work in Mexico City from April 8 through

April 13, 1964. I am informed that Mr. SCOTT,

the Chief of your Station

in Mexico City, was

particularly generous with his time and advice

and, in fact, contributed greatly to the success

of our mission in Mexico.

"During their stay in Mexico City the

Commission representatives discussed with

Mr. SCOTT and agents of the Federal Bureau

of Investigation that portion of the bee

Harvey OSWALD investigation which concerned

Gilberto ALVARADO Ugarte. We are aware, of

course, from-previous reports that the allega-

tions: made.by_ALVARADO were thoroughly inves-

tigated by Central Intelligence Agency and

Federal Bureau of Investigation representatives

in Mexico City in liaison with the responsible

•Jarmenforcement authorities.

Reference

made to the discussion of these allegations in

your memorandum dated January 31, 1964 at pages

SECRET

NW 65924 Docld:32356691 Page 23

---

## Page 24

SEGRET

"Upon review of our complete file on

this matter,

find that. we lack

full docu-

mentation of the investigation

conducted

these-allegations.

It would be helpful if

our records could be supplemented by a report

from your Agency supplying more details re-

garding the investigation undertaken by your

Agency and other concerned Ageneies into this

matter and your evaluation as to the truth of

ALVARADO's assertions.

In particular, it would

be helpful if a report could be submitted by

the expert who conducted the polygraph exami-

nation which emphasizes the specific conclusions

which he made based on the responses by ALVARADO

in answering key questions on this matter."?

Letter to Mr. Richard Helms, Deputy Director for Plans,

datod 21 April

1961, from I. Lee RANKIN, General Counsel

*I June 1964

In response to the above letter from the General Counsel

of the Warren Commission, the Agency forwarded by memorandum the

texts of the following disseminations relative to ALVARADO that

were made to other U. S. Government agencies!

d'.

OUT Teletype No. 85089, dated 26 November 1963

relative to Gilberto ALVARADO.

b.

OUT Teletype No. 85199,

dated 27 November 1963,

Subject:

Lee-Harvey OSWALD

QUT Teletype No. 85662, dated 28 November 1963

prelative to Gilberto ALVARADO.

d. OUT Teletype No. 86068, dated 30 November 1963,

relative to Gilberto ALVARADO.

OUT Teletype No.

85666,

dated 28 November 1963,

relative to Gilberto ALVARADO.

Memorandum, dated I2 (sic - 13}

December 1963,

Subject: Mexican Interrogation of Gilberto ALVARÁDO.

OUT Teletype No. 87667, dated 7 December 1963;

Subject: Lee Harvey OSWAL®.

[Memorandun for Mr. J. Lee RANKIN, dated 1 June 1964, from

Richard HELMS, Deputy Director for Plans; Subject: Gilberto

ALVARADO Ugarte.]

13 October 1964

The General Counsel forwards the following letter to

the Honorable John A. MCCONE, DCI:

We are enclosing a copy of your SECRET document

SECRET

NW 65924 Docld:32356691 Page 24

---

## Page 25

24

dated January 31

tion developed by CIA on the activity of

SEO)84, concerning informa-

Lee Harvey OSWALD in Mexico City, 28 September:

3 October 1963.

"We have deleted all references to the Seciet

Agent by the marking, "D".

since this docu-

ment was cited in our summary report, we are

requesting your authority to publish it in

this form. If this is not agreeable, may we

have a synopsis of this document which may be

published."

[Letter to John A. McCONE, Director, Central Intelligence

Agency, dated 13 October 1964, from J. Lee RANKIN, General

Counsel. Enclosures: Commission Documents 347 and 1084.1

20. October 1963

1SS2N

The Deputy Director for Plans forwards a memorandum

20004

to the General Counsel of the Warren Commission in response to

the latter's letter of 13. October 1964.

The Commission's Report pages 301-308)

contains information furnished by this Agency

in memoranda dated 31 January and 1 June 1964.

Since both include information relative to in-

telligence methods and operations which should

not be placed in the public domain

I suggest

the use.of the revised-and consolidated ver-

sions dated 4. June 1964 which is forwarded as

an attachment."

[Memorandum for Mr.

J. Lee RANKIN, dated 20 October 1964,i

from Richard HELMS, Deputy Director for Plans.J

NW 65924 Docld:32356691 Page 25

SEGRET

---

