# DOCID-32375207

## Page 1

104-10209-10129

Best avai:

-able image

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 |44 USC 2107 Notel. Case#NW

65990 Date: 10-29-2021

SECRET

MERCKANDU!! NOR: C"

riC

SUNJECT

REFERENCE

: 191.

i: reclined.

..=; Cunada, in

ic the Garrison

• Cco. -u3.

ist 19u7,

meet tartedCurrison Investigation

Pritation: Donald P.

1. Reference corvarded a C!/& A memorandum about NORTON

to Chief of Station, Otinia.

Since rant date FBI reports have shown that

NOXTON is a con man, and U.S, Air Force Medical records have re-

vealed that he was mucharged in driy cfor as a result of psychiatric

problems, having tried on tio or more recasions to commit suicidc.

NORTON's lies abou: Chl first appeared in the Vancouver Sun on 5

August 1967.

2. The attached PEl arport, DUB 77295, 10 April 1967, concerns

another example oi disinformation appearing in Vancouver, involving the

Sua, and rolaled to the Garrison case. A check oí Aguncy files showed

that we have no record of Trevor LATENS, Mario GRACIAS, or €

Miss Dorothy WITTY. The referenee of the unidentified caller to

GRACUS may have been a garble for Manuel GARCIA Gonzalez, whom

Garrison has named as one vi the assassins di President Kennedy but

Who appears lo have risippenred or to be non-cxistent. There are no

Agency traces (includiag JNWAVE) or GARCiA.

3. The Communist press genera ly and Sovict news media spccifically

have given Garrison's siory enthusistie coverage and support, because

it is nbviously in their interest to maintain that President Kennedy was

Document Number 1557-1114 -B

for FOlA Rovior on

FEB 1978

SECRET

NW 65990 Docld:32375207 Page 1

---

## Page 2

104-10209-10129

SECRET

assassinaledne. by pro-Commind Lee jartey Oswald hut rather as

a resuli vi a richl-ting consp racy andolor" ClA.

4. The surarin; of to such alien itions in or through the Vancouver

Sur scenis lo place a ciral ou crittenor. Do you have any information

aan tease a see mies bet press payces of

the Sun and representatives d. Sotri cartence? I no such injurmation

1s al hard, it dould te appreciated is those arestions were fornarded lo

ine Station, Lithout: tradquarior has to record oi Trivor LAUTENS,

1s is conceivable in it Sition iles maj aise soid information about him.

Donuvan E. Pratt

DC/CI/R&A

Aitachnients

Distribution

Orig & 1 - Adressec

1 - A/DCI (Mr. Goodwin)

1 - Genetal Counsel

1 - Office oi Security (Altn: Mr. Paul Gaynor)

1 - CI/ RiA Chrono

1 - DP for file (New Vancouver file)

1 - CI/Ri:A (Miss Smith)

-

SECRET

NW 65990 Docld:32375207 Page 2

---

