# DOCID-32348112

## Page 1

Date: 12/15/04

JEK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER

: 104-10067-10404

RECORD

SERIES

..

JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

80T01357A

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM : ANGLETON, JAMES, DDP

TO : HOOVER, J. EDGAR

TITLE

: LEE HARVEY OSWALD - INTERNAL SECURITY

RUSSIA - CUBA

DATE

: 09/30/1964

PAGES

: 4

SUBJECTS : SECURITY

RUSSIA

INTERVIEW

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS SECRET

CURRENT STATUS

: RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 08/04/93

COMMENTS : JFK12 : F19 : 1993.08.04.08:28:38:000053

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Hecords Lollection Act or

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

55924 Date: 10:25:2021

[R]

- ITEM IS

RESTRICTED

104-10067-10404

NW 65924 Docld:32348112 Page 1

---

## Page 2

-SECRET

316-0144664

TRATEL ENGUZAN

12:218 15R PENG

Get 5442. 3. 1!

PRIEST. Ca

CBI aS 00

FANS (E)

Document Number

JUL 1976

for FOlA Review on

IOT SCENTIO 0002

71186067

200 B0U74I20G 2196

?:.

MEMORANDUE FOR:

SUBJECT:

Director

Federal Bureau of Investigation

Lee Harvey OSWALD - Internal securit.

Russia - Cuba

1.

Relerenes is made to your memorandum of August 14,

1964, Subject:

as above, your tile sumber (S) 105-82555,

in which you requested that seven enclosed photographs be

shown to VIADUCT and certain questions be asked of him.

2.

VIADUCT was interviewed on 9 September 190% wIt

the following results.ad cornand on sureN phett:

3. Photograph no. I:

seNt By FBI

(1) Nikolay SERGEYEV - Source did not recoguize the

face and had never heard the name.

(2) Annette (Anita) SETYAIVA, ZUGOFF, formerly known

as icine; Annette GOLDSHTSYN (GOLDSTEIN) and

Annette Henkina (KIIENKINA): Source recognized

her immediatoly by face, giving the name Annette

KHINKINA, formerly Annette GOLDSHTEYN. He could

not recall her maiden name but when offered the

name ZUGOFT he said this would be correct as it

is an Ossettian name and her father bad been

issettian and her nother a Caradian.

additional information on this woman is provided

in paragrash s below.

(3)

Joseph ADAMOV: Source recognized his photograph

immediately and provided the came correctly,

identifying him as his long-time friend, previously

discussed in the British report referenced in your

nemorandun.

-SECRET.

05806

RECORD COPY

CROUP 1

Excladed from automatic

doingrading and

declassilication

6 oct64

201-259248

NW 65924 Docld:32348112 Page 2:

---

## Page 3

SECRET,

(4) Annaballe BUCAB:: Source recognized her photo.

grapb inmediataly and gave her name correetly.

She is the person discussed in the Britist

raport.

(5).

Serged RUDIN:

Source recognized his photograph

Immediately and gave his nane as "RUDIk".and

FUDERIAN OF RUDIMAN, the sano nan referred to in

tho: British: report.

Source sald be 1s a close

¡Itond of Joe ADANOV's: HE 1s Jewish and was

originally from Hew Yorks, but is now a Soviet

citizen, married to a Russian voman and father

of three or four children.

He noris. in the

English language section of Radio Moscow. Be

had formerly had a very small flat o1 one of

two roons, with which he was very Hahappy, out

Radio Mascoy

got him an attractive and larger

flat in & building on Peschanaya Streot..

(6) LuCy (O1ga) PRAVDINA: Source recogalzed her

photographat once.rs the monan who had glyes.

him Bnglish lessons in 1944 or 1845 when he was

brially employed at Radio Moseor.

her name was Irtna or something Ilke that, and

she had previously spent possibly ten of 11fteon

years in: tho United States with her husband who

had been a TaSS man there..

recall her last name (marriod nane) but thought

::1t begas. with a

"ys.

When Source first nat her

sha was a program director for Fadio Hoscow and

did some announcing.. He said she spoke excellent

Bnglish, was a good worker and sell liked by her

colleaguas.

he did not knoy the nanes Ludi and.

OLGA PRAVDINA, and "as certain neither was her

actual name.

Photographs 2 and 3:

Source recognized these as

annette KHENKINA, ol paragraph 3 (a) above.

Photograph no. 4:

Source recognized number as

the person:Identified in paragraph 3 (6) above; and recognized

Annette FRENKINA, Sergel RUDILAN; and Joe ADAMOV. He did

not recognize ilkolai SERGEYSY in this photograpa..

Photograph no. 3:" Source recognised 8ll persons

to this photo, as identified in paragraphs 3 (3), (2), (4);

änd (5) above.

SECRET

NW: 65924: Docld:32348112 Page 23

---

## Page 4

SECRET

Photograpa no. 6: Source recoguized number (1)

AS KHINKIN. (first name not recalled), the second husband

DI ARROttO COLDSHTEN KHINKINA, end Dumber (2) as Annetto

herself. He knew that they had a son and assumed that the

child in tats photo was that son, but he had never seen the

child.

Source provided the same intornation on KHENKIN

previously included in MI-5 Report Number 27, referred to

12 your menorandum.

He added to this that the apartmest

building In tha backgrouad of photograph number (3) 18

tho location of: the apartment which KiCKIN was given after

ho had writtan a letter to sinu complaining o quarters:

he

was first givon when he rapatrialed to the 30v1et 15100

in: 1945 05 1848-

8. Photograph no. 7:

Source recognizod Annetté

KHiNKINA, but did not know any of the others in the photo.

When number (4) Hazina, nas pointed out to him, he stated

that"

she was the right ago to be Annette's daughter by ber

first husband: GOLDSHTYN. "'SourCe bad seen her as a suall

child, possibly about fiva or six yeara of age, in 1945.

lie has never. seen har since, in en nothing nore about her,

and could not identify her photograpk.: Source commented

tbat be had never not GOLDSITSYN; Arette'g first husband,

but knen that he was nuch older than she and he speculated

that tha. older man in this photograph might be Borig

GOLDSHITIN.:" Sourco gave the following addstional information

On BOrIS GOLDSHIEYN: Be was sona kind of engineer-tochnicias,

not employed by-Radio Moscow... He did not approse of Anzette's

norking in the radio fald, and disapproved of the people

she worked with there and the general atnosphere of nork.:

Ansotte was already separated of divorced frOM GOLDSHISIN

when Source flist net her, somatime in 1944 or 1345. Wila

Annette was still married to GOLDSTEYN, she had an affair

with Joe Alsov.

Regarding Lev oF LeO SEIYARV, Source had never

beard the nano.. Hs vas not awars that Annette KHINKINA

had married for. the third time, although be knew that she

was divorced .fron KHENKIN and that he was interested 1n

naTIyIng a voman-uho was an editor la & publishing house.

10.

Source had never heard of Lee HaIvey OSWALD

prior to his dojaction, and had so intornation regaraing.

his participation in a Radio Moscor interview In late

1959. Ha commented, however, that

1t was not unusual to

SECRET

NW 65924 .Docld:32348112 Page 4

---

## Page 5

SECRET

conduct intervious of this sort, and Joe ADAMOV could

have suggested the taping of an intervier. It would

not necessarily follon. that such a tape would be used for.

2n actual broadcast, as such decisions were not make by

the lateryiewer but by the progran directors.

FOR THE DEPUTY DIRECIOR FOR PLANS:

JAMES: ANGLITON:

CSCI-316/02446-84

S. M.DOWNEY: SR/CI/KGBnbg

Distiibution:

30 September 1964

Orig &:1 - Addressee..

1

C/CI'-

CI/OPS/SS - ,dy copy

12-

I

CI/R&A - dmy copy

CI/CI - duy "copy

"C/SR/CI

SR/O/US d] - day copy

1.

÷ RI/FI (201-280, 248) - dmy copy

2 + SR/CI/KGB (chrono & comeback)

comeback to SR/CI/Research

after return..

SECRET

MV 65924 Docld:32348112 Page 5

---

