# DOCID-32350668

## Page 1

Date: 12/22/04

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER: 104-10074-10346

RECORD SERIES : JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 80T01357A

DOCUMENT

INFORMATION

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM

TO

TITLE

.:

LETTER CONCERNING MR. DEAN SAUNDERS AND MR. SHEN

SHINGPING VISIT WITH PRC REPRESENTATIVES IN OTTAWA.

05/03/1973

DATE

PAGES

: 2

SUBJECTS : OTTAWA MEETING

PRC REPS

SHEN, SHINGPING

SAUNDERS, DEAN

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

COMMENTS

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note]. Case#:NW

35924 Date: 10:25.2021

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10074-10346

NW 65924 Docld:32350668 Page 1

---

## Page 2

ATTACHMENT TO: OCOA-17705

LONL

May 3, 1973

A reliable source has advised that on

April 19, 1973 Mr. Dean SAUNDERS and Mr. SHEN, Shing-

Ping, both of Oklanoma, advised that they would visit

commercial

representatives of the People's Republic of

China (P.R.C.) Embassy in Ottawa on April 26. According

to source, the Embassy representatives were interested

in petroleum coke of Canoco (ph) Co. in Texas and

telephone equipment and technology of the Company that

SHEN is employed with. Source learned that SHEN would

bring the desired information to the Embassy.

2.

Source later learned that SHEN and SAUNDERS

arrived in Ottawa on April 25 and arranged to visit the

Embassy on April 26.

According to source, SHaN had

brought some material for the Embassy officials perusal,

however, SHEN would have to return same.

30

Source stated that on April 27, SHEN and an

Embassy official discussed the Western Electronic Co.,

U.S.A. (place unknown) which is interested in doing

business with the P.R.C.

Source advised that SHEN had

been requested by the Embassy official to prepare

information on the comparison of products, quantities,

etc.

Please Xu 0C0A-17676,24 April 1973

SECRE

NW 65924 Docld:32350668 Page 2

---

## Page 3

SECRET

- would visit the Enbassy on 4 May 73 to discuss a

visa.

Source learned that HERSHEY had indicated

to Embassy Officials that he had been boin in

the P.R.C.

and that he was a good friend of the

Chinese people.

26 April 73: - Dudley it. TOWNE,

Professor Physics, Anhurst, Mass.

visa enquiry

- Vir: Harrison FOREMAN, New York, N.Y.

had

been advised that permission had been received

for his daughter to visit the ?.R.C.

- Jan BARRIS of the Ü.S.-China Cormittee New York

would forward to the Enbassy, the list of names

for the second delegation to visit the P.R.C.

in June 1973:

- Dr. (inu) SCHARTER of California State College,

Northriage, California

enquiry regarding a delegation's visit to the

P.R.C.

- Marshal KAPLAN, New School of Social Research, New

Tork had visas granted for himseli and his wife to

visit the P.R.C.

se anted.

KAFLA would be visiting Frank

COB and Soloman AbLEr presumably in the P...C.

KAPLAN had discussed his schedule with COD and COL

would be away at the end of lay 1973 and ADLER

would be there for several months.

KAPIA there-

fore wished to visit the ?.R.C. in September, 1973.

- Source learned that Elaine BROIN of Cailand,

California had received a letier from WU Chun

(Attache of P.R.C. Embassy) and that BROVN had

replied.

NW 65924 Docld:32350668 Page 3

---

