# DOCID-32412660

## Page 1

104-10179-10017

Heleased under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note]. Case#:NW

55987 Date: 10-28-2021

21 Boreabo 1960

COTTACT REPORT

SUBJECTI Heeting Vith KaDuel RAY, 15 Bovember 1960, a8 a Motel

In HOsestead, 810F108

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

particules tsee,

to tate any chances of astina his spotted 11 Alaul. Manual Rey and bla

uite bad been driven from tarps by

, "Ray Adars" (Ray Dübals) to the abora

named motel! I bad previously callad Ray on the telephone froa Bey Iork

at his Paupa realdence and told his that I vould meet hiu on 15 Boreader.

The meeting began at 2100 bours and lasted unt1l about 0130 the sere dey.

2. The highlifata of this matina vero reported In MABH-L69), 17

jovember, copy or mica la attached. The rolloning paragrapis sre la

elaboration of this passage.

During this flist seeting, sy intent vas to establlas rapport,

probe into Ray's polstical thirding, and, by relterating previouly esde

statemente on the Bedder soup's villlnguess to support the MaP, to

estabilal tha Bender group as a privato contacto dufinitivo for antro

Castro actstitles. In lles vith this, I kapt the seazing purposely

as an "exchange of tlera" session, aralding any controreroy, but at

the dans tiDe, Indiesin suns surprisO and sou berlidermant oper susa

of Rug'a statesanto.

4.

Tarougbout the comersation, fay clearly atressed his great

ballet 1a csr1l Libertles, Ladinidual Steedoss, and bla position as a

Cubass, and also bemlopberse, sattonallet. On a numbor at occasiças, be

atredeed the polas thas sout likely soss of the salutions ha proposad.

sor the postocastro, perlod, alght. be rieved by so vith soas sleetrizes.

Don't you ballere, be asked, that rost le important to the economy of the

U. 8. In Not secessarily isportant to the economy of Cubal. Doa't you

thinx that the Americas brasd al democracy, nich varke adilrably. la

Jour comery, I0 not DeceRally appiscable 1a sta totality la Cibal

3. Dey restorated, on a number of deceasons, tbas bo vented so 80

back to 1 january 1959.

so tao quiste fira so as reportod in the abora-

DENtIONEd ERDle D On EDA DOOd Ol EDe DISSONALIZAtIOn Ol PUbLIE NELLIELeAS

ubes askod abpot the agrarian refora aso, In tale coroperlos, uhat roald

sappen to Castro selzad lartian rasebes, ho said that land distributio

and ORATeDIA by ladITIjual sIras al lasd so parcalled out, vould ba a

rasebed vould he raturesd. to thett onsere, vate curtantly beltg vorbes

SERGET

NW 65987 Docld:32412660 Page 1

---

## Page 2

104-10179-10017

sut by fellpo taxos. (conairs l snined the lapression thos theat

ranches alubt not de returnad.

6. I renlly shoved sode surprise when Ray Bald that be vould not

mase the 1940 Constitution the basis 101 bla futuro governosat. Inia 168u0

case up in the followlus Banners I Askel Ray ubether of nor de could vark ...

esther by joining or by afffliating - with the FRO, and whea bla anener

vas in the negatito, I posed tbe question of vhat vere the areas of Aste

sent and oi diasgreenent between him und the fil. Ray sold that ba had

not an yet talked tu rouy Varona but that he rould feel that there could

be agreement on a number of pointes firet, to get rid of Castro, secoad,

that there slould be ciril libertles and Indiviival Ireedon. He oatd

that perbaps the ares of disagrement vas confidarably greaters bo

could not accept the 1940 Constitution as the basis for Cuba's polltical

1sfe In the future.

Corioely, some provisions of the Constitution voulu

be retained but espedially prontaiona for electoral procedures vould have

to be changed radieally the current provlaiona are fosterios corruption

and feather-bedding, and are not responsive to the will of the people..

Questions of astiooa11zat10n and other econorse battero vould have to bo

daalt vith more thoroughly is the Constitution.

Another point of 015uC1

agreemant with the PiD le the fact that it ma linked too such vith the

past.

The ERD, PAY 8816, L0 really Tiny Varona, Or tbe SIve; be 19, tbe

onLy one or any true importance aboases the current Executive Consittee

periberal Carrillo has alvays been vesy close to the VPP political posture,

and Artime 18 a yound fire-urani rathout too such brainos the reet or the

VRo Executiro Cornittee neubers are nice people Indiridually, but Verona

Is the man to reckon sith. Hon, there la nothing vrong vith Varona pat-

DODOlLy] Lo 18 a sIncere, patriotic Cuban uho las and deserves respect.

Moverer, Varora 10 inseparably llaked uith the corruptseas of the Prio:

regina altbough he, Varons, le undoubtedly a complataly honest uss.. In

additioa, Varons, betber he vants to or not, la a syubol at the peat aso

outdated

political and oconoude philosophy of the Prio regdoa... It 18

Ispossible for the ARP to have asy dealings vita or any lako to tbas

past.

7. I asked Ray toat bla position to the Sorlet/chicon block would

be after Castro a dentos.

One as our baste concepto, ly Baldinto to.."

trade therever 10 will de beneficial for day benefielal does pot paan

to the our economy to that is the forlet block.. He nre quite avare that

out future in linked to out treat forth Anaricaa delgabor. Borerer, sued

11ax can not soan doalnation of ahould imply aiy exclasivaparo. He suet

bufle up our hard currency position so that ma cha trade mererer te

MBIE tO.. YOU ANETICADS UNdeTESELESSO the AtrODE Seel1U8 at setionalisa

throughout latta Aberlear Doalt toe the MarItieal Don't livade!: Talo

rovolution bes to do gaperated tron the inalde.

He Dood. Avertean bely

but thie belp buat be ulthout strings attaches.

labassauor Boosal ani

J1a loal proclaed no thia bolp, dAd your, BeDier"s, jeallagE vIto MRP

representatives bere made us very hoperal, but 18 va can not got thie ald,.

illl procoad on our own. lie are certain thas ve vill vlo, but 1s te

NW 65987 Docld:32412660 Page 2

---

## Page 3

104-10179-10017

hara to din 1n fallura a to do 111 It vas at this palas uben Ray complassed

Ditterly about our hasilica do the 81a0010 HaLAD aSPALES

B108810 Haled vas

100k10g for are.

Fe, Ray, vas eager to bulld up his organization ass

tberefore to drav people like Halal Into bie circle.

Qne of the seans to

do thie vao, as course, to sake lalah dependent on blo, Ray's, ability to

turniah aslitary equipenat, Haled sade a request for aras to Rays Ray

chansaled this roquest to his American contacts In javena 1D the auticIpat100

-tbat b9, Ray, vould be firen the crouft by lelch of haring delivered the coode.

What happosed, soverer, vas that Plialo irloto, who had boon träined in

America, maje contact with lalah and assured him that support rovila bo

forthooning from a source other than Ray.

This, Riy coutinued, vas, 10-

dication that the Asaricans vanted to split avay the kaleh eroup trou

Ray's Influence. I indicated no kaouledge about this asfair but poopposed

the conclusion drava troa 16 by ray.

8. After thia polltical Ulacuasion, Ray elucidatad on peychological

aspeots of the liP vorks ve are revolutionarles, ond thus vo must rotals,

at all $1098, a lean and hunstry 100k. Bach one or us, rogeralis or tbe

Loval of our activities, mat bare a feellog of personal reaponstbilitys

stos me down to the piala coas, no must have speciale. Laste a08.8n0d to us

to do and each of us muat recogasre that ve will ba hole responsiblo los

tbe success or falluTe of the specifle MissiOn BABIEneS tO UD. TiNs, LOs

¡notasco, me can not be satlafiod just to uccept soney ve must engago la

food-ralsing dilvos here and In Cuba. These drivas sight not bring la

muas and hopefully, Bender uill take up the difference, but the 1nd1uidual

TUnd-TAIEOTE V12l have a fooling of accoupllshment and 1121 Dot pet fat and

opalent and Lasy:

° Above concluded the over an clacussion and sona dotarlos quas810n0

sura saked by Ray.

Could be bave $25, 000 by next work? (I poomitted

$10,000.) Could be engago in a randoralasag activity in the U. 8.9 (I

semporIzed.) Could he bare pross confereDces? (I Bald, voy not?), could

he bara rad1o t150l (I sald, perbapo.) Could ho pot ailitary ald? (I

esto gos, provided out offlerla for furnishing suid ald rould be not, and

I repeatod, at that point, oy then tsat there could be no dupiication ot

Mali da be so to cool vets our moderated to dait to 1a0 i asia.

KILLICE NO PARLETS

HAP/PS8 (19 B0F 60)

D18851but10n1

O • OR FILe

1 - SUASH

vl = lanuel Ray dosales

1 • ARP

1 = C/JURC/078

ZIBR

NW 65987 Docld:32412660 Page 3

---

