# DOCID-32373768

## Page 1

JEK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

0404. 04090 cmW

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER : 104-10308-10282

RECORD SERTES : JEK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : LA DIV WORK FILE

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

EROM

TITLE : ZRKNICK UNNUMBERED BOX VOLUME 111

DATE : 01/01/1963

PAGES : 3

SUBJECTS : JEK ASSASSINATION

ZRKNICK

DOCUMENT TYPE

CLASSIFICATION

* UNCLASSIFIED

RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE DE LAST REVIEW

COMMENTS

07K-WF02

JEK-WF02 : F4 : 20040323-1062407

Heleased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination

Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

anetakt ba44u Date: 11-01-2121

[RI - ITEM IS

RESTRICIED

104-1030810282

NW 65990 Docld:32373768 Page 1

---

## Page 2

Page 22 a

26 0ct 63

19 Nov 63

21 Nov 63

ciss

22 Nov 63

27 Nov 63

29 Nov 63

ZRNICK Unnumbered Box

Volume III

PACY 1073 (IN 48464): Cable from Panama City to

Headquarters.

"Hope you understand that PONCHAY

(Jake Esterline) and Station CI group as

dissatistied with unresolved aspects lASAGE Ops:

as is Hqs.

Do not, hosever, at this point, see

spectre of Soviets

or massive provocation efforts

directed by Soviets and/or CASTRO in progzess.

COMMENT: PONCHAY was in touch with HYSAGE-1

(Thelma King), a Panamanian left-wing politician,

pro-Castro Deputy to National Assembly, and

personal friend of Fidel CASTRO.

Recruited by

Fidel Aug 62 to perform espionage mission in

Panama7.

MEXI 6969 (IN 64256): Cable from Mexico to Hqs.

T16 Nov LICOOKY-I with LINLUCK-1 visited Maj.

ALfONSO PRERA Sierra, employed by Francisco

"Paco" AMADO at Maquinas Coloso. "Paco" still

involved Guatemala guerrilla ops and receives

from Cubans to pass to Guata, "Paco's wife

• "Paco" now in U.S. but Alfonso thinks he

either in Guat. or Cuba, Alfonso's brother

Enrique still firmly pro-Cuban."

DIRECIOR 84449. Cable from Hqs. to WAVE.

'Hqs, has sensitive info. indicating that Cuban

I.S. is targetting against person employed in

State Dept. office in Miami.

(Matter discussed

with the FBI.)

DIRECTOR 84791. Cable from Hqs, to Panama City.

HYSAGE- 2 C

) turned plane ticket

over to "MEDINA" on 22 Nov. Ticket expires 7 Dec

63.

Has decided remain U.S. over Xmas holidays.

Wants to raise grade at Georgetown (University)*

Was much affected by death of President and did

not want to talk much.

DIRECTOR 85343. Cable from Hqs. to WAVE and

Panama City.

"Hqs, suspects Blanca Alicia FRANCO may be

spearhead of penetration AMOT/CIA ops on behalf

ZRKNICK complex.

AMOTS LJMWAVE Station ops.7

in direct contact with FRANCO.

FRANCO, suspect

Cuban agent, in contact with AMOT-110.

HDCA 3405 dispatch from Santo Domingo to Has.

concerning one Eduardo TAVARES Justo, TAVARES

queries EMGLUE-1 on 2 Oct 63 about his experiences

NW 65990 Docld: 32313760 Page 2

---

## Page 3

18 Dec 63

20 Dec 63

21 Nov 63

25 Feb 64

Page 22 b

in he U.s. but did not give

y indication

that he was going there. On

9 Oct, five days

after TAVARES departure,

EMGLUE-1 reported

that TAVARES had not gone to Canada as planned,

but to New York. On 22 Nov 63 EMGLUE-I reported

that as of 17 Nov TAVARES was still in New York

E-1 believed TAVARES is a Communist, or at least

has Communist ideas.

HMMA 22632, Dispatch from Mexico City to Hqs:

"On 2I Nov 63, LICOOKY-1 obtained following info.

re Francisco AMADO. For past year AMADO has continued

to receive visits

from emissaries of Fidel CASTRO

and to make mysterious trips.

On each occasion

(sic) AMADO receives money for various expenditures.

Right after receiving these visitors and the money,

AMADO goes on trips.

AMADO was in Cuba for a

while last year.

He may be working for the Govt

of Cuba in intelligence work.

AMADO's wife was

educated in the U.S.

She has friends in Washington

As of this

date, AMADO has been outside Mexico for some time.

Last

year when AMADO went to Guatemala, taking funds

from CASTRO for the guerrillas, he applied for

membership in the Guatemalan Communist Party.

He

has CASTRO's confidence and performs services for

the Communists."

DIRECTOR 90507 from Hqs, to Panama City and Bern.

"Appears likely someone may have used HYSAGE-1

ticket. Can Panama City identify? ' Was HYSAGE-1

in Panama 4-17 Dec?

End of Vol. III

Volume IV

DBA 57414 (FBI) 100-5-14 (DIRECTOR 501359)

Page 1l para 3 mentions a Manolo GARCIA who

had in his possession driver's license in name

This Manolo RODRIGUEZ may

be iden/with one Manuel RODRIGUEZ Seoane (201-920072)

Cuban DSE officer in 64 responsible for recruiting

Man 1: 10056007 (201-920072)

Emilio ECHARTE Pedroso. ECHARTE's mission was to

enter the U.S. for the purpose of assassinating

Cuban exile, Manolo RAY.

Volume V (1 Mar to 30 Apr 64)

UFGW-3350 to JMWAVE from Hqs.

Has passed to Hqs.

FBI an informal memo Subj: Cuban Intelligence

Service Censorship Lists - list of names and

addresses copies

from censorship lists maintained

by Cuban Intell. Service in labana, Cuba. (sourced

to usually reliable source in Cuba.)

NW 65990 Docld:32373768 Page 3

---

## Page 4

- 22 c

17 Jul 64

3 Aug 64

15 Oct 64

ame VII

PACY 4074 (IN 30576) Cable from Panama City to Hqs.

"Station will do everything possible to get

additional answers and clarification from HYSAGE-I.

If H-l is trying to divert attention from more

important target or activity any of the following

possibilities may be considered:

possibilit

c. I-l may be involved in or aware of

impending action.

Perhaps a golpe de Estado or

assassination, and is trying detract attention

from persons actually involved."

BOGO 4761 (IN 41774) cable from Bogota to Hqs.

"On 28 July 64 a State Dept. officer received

info. that there was a pro-Castro group in

the Civil Aeronautics Admin, and names Alvaro

REYES Nieto as a member of the group.

REYES,

a Colombian, is a radio technician, now in Wash.;

D.C. area on ODWIFE training grant. Hernando

REYES Nieto, believed to be Alvaro's brother,

reportedly travelled to Cuba via Mexico in Jan.

CSDB 3/654,557 lists him as architect in

employ of the Cuban Government.

Volume VIll

HHTW-1721 to Tegucigalpa from Hqs.

"When

President Kennedy died, "Augusto" (DGI)

directed officers in National Liberation Bldg•,

to prepare radio communication using song "Three

Beautiful Cubans' or "Six Beautiful Cubans,"

which could be transmitted by Radio Havana, Cuba

and be used to send easily understood ciphered

AMMUG-1 (DGI defector) believed that

Norberto HERNANDEZ Curbelo (DGI) officer chose

the musical recording. Augusto is believed to

be iden/with Carlos Sixto CHAIN Soler, Deputy

to Manuel PINEIRO; Chief of the DGI.

End of ZRKNICK Unnumbered Box

NW 65990 Docld:32373768 Page 4

---

