# DOCID-32411973

## Page 1

104-10177-10208

Heleased under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note]. Case#:NW

65997 Date: 10-28-2021

SECRET

Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNVENT

TO

FRUN

: Chief,

Alo: Nr. Floreg US

:Chief, Contact Division (i/Br)

DATE: 27 Hovendes 1959

SUBJBCT: Report of Impending itted on Castro

03

1. Jaci Gillespie of Atlente, who is known to Mir. Flores, recently

was coproached by Rudy Ecrnandez of Atlanta and St. Petersburg, Fla.,

= Cuban-born us

national uno is a supporter of Emiliu Nunez Portuondo.

Fernandez said:

a. The enti-Castro forces in the Dominicen Republic and Guetenala.

total 5,000 troors, of whon 5,000 could be used sa paratroopers. The

Dominican Republic bill furnish airsrait end ships for an Invesion?

oi cubs. Tine of the strike is indefinite but it could occur before

1 Jailary 1ya.

b. Resistance to an invasion is expected to be light because the

Cuban amy his not bech paid for two munths and is living by loting.

c. "Many" high-ranking soviet officers are in Havena.

2. Gillespie said the presence of Sovict officers in Havana had also

been reported to him Zi lovember 2959 In'a telephone call fron a Cuban

businessmen in won he hes confidence.

3. Gillespic, an experienced flier,

refused Fernandez' invitation to

acconneny hin to the Dosinican Repüblic to nect the Invasion lendeis end

revier their plons.

Fing a 115 Co

iB.H.PONCRIFT

SEGRET

201-45667

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

• Do Not Reproduce

ZIBR

NW 65987 Docld:32411973 Page 1

---

