# DOCID-32342127

## Page 1

Date: 04/25/96

Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

• AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER

104-10020-10052

RECORD SERIES

JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

201-289248

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR

FROM

TO

TITLE

CIA

DIRECTOR CIA

BERLIN

CABLE RE MOROCCAN STUDENT MOHAMED REGGAB CLAIMS TO HAVE BEEN BOYFRIEND

OF MARINA OSWALD.

DATE :

01/09/64

PAGES

SUBJECTS

REGGAB, MOHAMED

OSWALD, MARINA

INVESTIGATION

ALLEGED LINK

DOCUMENT TYPE

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS

1A

CURRENT STATUS

RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

01/26/94

OPENING CRITERIA

COMMENTS OSW5: V3 1994.01.26.14:08:46:560028:

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

65924 Date: 10-21-2021

(R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NW 65924 Docld:32342127 Page 1

---

## Page 2

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

ORIG':

UNIT

John M. Waitten: j2

DAINDEX

SECRET

EXT

5613

O NO INDEX

DATE : 9 January 1963

I FILE NICOENS NOT 209-5941P(F)

The following action is

ТО :

RABAT

FROM: DIRECTOR

BERLIN

authorized: DE SENSITIZE

12-62

ROUTING

4

6

9 JAM 64 21

192

Signed:

CO

"C/WH 4

INFO :

DCI, D/DCI, DDP,

DERSNREGEN

R

ROUTINE

TO

како

Document Number

for FOlA Review on

Note:

BABA

BREAN

If destruction,

cite

reasons and coordinate

I appropriate.,

CITE DIR

4

CPFLOOR

REE BRIA 5267 (IN 20848) NOT SENT RABA

MOROCCAN STUDEIT MOHAMED

BAB, BORN THREE JANUARY 1930 IN BATT

MOROCCO, HAS TOLD BRIN THAT HE WAS BOYFRIEND OF RUSSIAN GIRL NAMED MARINA LAU

ENOM HE RECOGHIZED FROM HEWSPAPER PICTURES TO BE WIDOW OF LE OSWALD.

ROMANCE

TOOK PLACE IN MOSCOW IN FIRST HALF OF 1961 WHILE REGGAB WAS STUDYING CHIRAS

TOGRAPHY THARE.. REGGAB CLAIS HE HAS PHOTO OF MARINA AND LETTER FROM HER IN HIS

EFFECTS IN CASABLANCA AND HAS WRITTEN HIS BROTHER IN LAW THERE TO FIND THEM AND

SEND THEM TO HIM IN BRIN.

2.

FYI ONLY: MARINA OSWALD DENIES SHE EVER KNEW RECGAB BUT CERTAIN

DETAILS HE KNOWS ABOUT HER AND HER BACKGROUND LEND CREDENCE TO HIS STORY.

vis

MOST ANXIOUS TO FOLLOW UP HIS STORY AND ARE WILLING TO PAY HIM TO FLY TO

CASABLANCA AND BACK TO FIND PICTURE AND LETTER IF NECESSARY. WE COULD PUT EIM

IN TOUCH WITH ODYOKE OFFICIALS IN MOROCCO TO HELP HIM AND TO TAKE OVER TES

MATERIAL, FOR POUCHING EQUE. WE COULD EASILY CET THE MOROCCAN GOVERNMEYT TO

201-289248

ASSIST US, UNLESS REGGAB FEMS THIS WOULD BE UNDESIRABLE.

3. EVEN THOUGH REGGAB HAS WRITTEN HIS BROTHER IN LAW, WE FEAR HE MAX ONLY

BE STALLING. DID BRUN SEE THE LETTER HE WROTE, AND ARE THEY SURE XE MAID IT?

CS COPY COORDINATING: OFFICERS

RELEASING

OFFICER

GROUP 1

Excluded from automatic

downgrading and

declassification

AUTHENTICATING

OFFICER

SEGREI

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy No.

NW 55984001402342127 Page 2

---

## Page 3

ORIG :

UNIT

EXT

:

'DATE

Whitten: jz

:

FROM: EDIRECTOR

CONE:

INFO

TỔ

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

D INDEX

D NO INDEX

• FILE, IN CS FILE NO

STORET

See Sanitized File

Number

192

For sterile copy of this document.

PACE TWO

12-62

ROUTING

4

3

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

INFO

CITE DIR

93554

SCAN BRIN ASK HIM TO WRITE ANOTHER LETTER WHICH COULD BE POUCHED TO RABA FOR

PLACING IN THE MAITS THERE? IF REGGAB GETS AN ANSWER FROM HIS BROTHER IN LAW,

FLEASE BY SURE BRIN SEES IT AUD PHOTOS IT, INCLUDING ENVELOPE.

SOLICIT BRIN AND RABAT VIEWS ON HOW WE CAN BEST INSURE AND ACCELERATE

OBTAINING TENSE DOCUIENTS. IF WE GET THEM, WE WILL, THEN NERD A FULL DETATED

STATEMAYT FROM REGGAB WHICH CAN PERHAPS BEBT BIS MADE IN THE FORM OF AN

5:

I AFFIDAVIT TO AN ODYOKE CONSULAR OFTICIAL IN BREN.

RABA: PLEASE SLUG ALL TRAFFIC RYBAT ERE GPFLOOR ONLY.

END OF MESSAGE

C/S COMMENT: *Reggab writing brother -in - law in Rabat asking him to try

and locate letter from Marina and photo among his personal belongings there.

01021:

1 ..,.

BI DIRECIION OF:

RICHARD MINI

DDP

RELEASING OFFICER

REPRODUCTIC

NW 65924 Docld:32342127 Page 3

: i:.:

COORDINATING OFFICERS

GROUP 1

Excluded from automatic

downgrading and

declassification

SECRET

Y OTHER THAN THE. ISSUING OFFIC

PROHIBITED.

AUTHENTICATING

OFFICER

Copy No.

---

