# DOCID-32305111

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/14/201

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10287-10241

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-6054-675

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: MIREROR, BELA.

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

Heleased under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Notel. Case#:NW

65994 Date: 11-03-2021

DATE: 07/10/1964

PAGES:

53

SUBJECTS :

LCN, ASSOC, MAFIA, RACK ACT, ARREST, MEETING, POLIT,

GAMBLING, TRA, NUMBERS RACKET, NARCITOCS,

CRIMINAL ACT, CONSPR, MISUR, TESUR

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/26/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: RPT, TABLE OF CONTENTS PAGE ii, INDEX PAGES 1-5

v9.1

NW 65994 Docld:32305111 Page 1

30

---

## Page 2

-50

REPORTING OFFICE

PILISBURGH

TITLE OF CASE

LA COSA NOSTRA,

PITTSBURGH DIVISION

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

PIMSBURGH

DATE

7/10/64

REPORT MADE BY

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

11/20/63 - 7/6/64

SAMUEL A

MILLER

CHARACTER OF CASE

TYPED BY

jma, emg

pics mms

AR - CONSPIRACY

REFERENCES

Report of SA SAMUEL A.

MITTER, Pittsburgh,

12/13/63.

cleveland letters to Pittsburgh, 12/6 & 10/63.

Chicago letter to Pittsburgh, 12/3063.

New York letter to Pittsburgh, 1/3/64.

Newark letter to Pittsburgh, 1/7/64.

Cleveland letter to Bureau, 1/31/64.

Pittsburgh letter to Philadelphia,

3/31/64.

Bureau letter to Pittsburgh, 5/11/64.

niladelphia letter to Pittsburgh, 5/13/64.

New York letter to Bureau, 6/23/64.

ENCLOSURES

TO BUREAU (2): Two copies of a letterhead memorandum

reflecting characterizations of informants

utilized in this report.

TO NEW YORK (3):

Two copies of a letterhead memorandum

reflecting characterization of Informants

utilized in this report.

APPROV TO DAUNCHE

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

COPIES MADE:

92-6054-675

₴:

REG- 40

(Encl. 2)

2 - Pittsburgh (92-599)

DISSEMINATION RECORD OF ATTACHED REPORT

NOTATIONS

Diet

AGENCY..

EQUEST RECD.

TE FIVD..

I FWD.

U.S. GOVERHMENT PRINTING OFFICE

10-76324-1

NW 65994 Docld:32305111. Page 2

---

## Page 3

PG 92-599

LEADS

CLEVELAND - INFORMATION

An Information copy of this report is being furnished

the Cleveland Office in view of information provided by

cieveland informants which sets forth certain relationships

between Cleveland and Pittsburgh members of La Cosa Nostra.

PITISBURGH

AT PITTSBURGH, PA. (ALLEGHENY COUNTY)

Will report results of informant contacts and

evaluation of Information furnished by NY T-2 relative to

Pittsburgh members of La Cosa Nostra between the years of

approximately 1913 to 1932.

2. Will closely follow activities of SEBASTIAN

JOHN IA ROCCA as "Commission" member as well as related

members of Pittsburgh

leadership and membership.

"families" to effect further identification,

Will, through informants, attempt to further

identify information furnished by CV 554-PC, CV 557-PC and

CV 344-C relative to relationships possibly existing between

members of the Cleveland and Pittsburgh families and members

of La Cosa Nostra.

ADMINISTRATIVE

It is to be noted that coverage of reported members

of La cosa Nostra in the Pittsburgh area has been effected

through the following informants.

Although these informants

have produced no information specifically relating to La Cosa

Nostra, they are in a position to furnish such information in

the future.

PG 622-C* (SEBASTIAN JOHN LA ROCCA)

PG 605-0* Gambling and racketeering in general

in the Pittsburgh area)

PG 713-C* (SAMUEL and GABRIEL MANNARINO)

PG (21-0* | MICHAEL GENOVESE)

= B=

COVER PAGE

53110511

NW 65994 Docld:32305111 Page 3

---

## Page 4

PG 92-599

During the week of 6/15/64 Pittsburgh Agents

conducted surveillances of JAMES P. SALAMONE and DOMINICK

ADIUTORI with the objective of determining whether future

coverage of these individuals 1s feasible.

Both are

anti-racketeering subjects of the Pittsburgh Office residing

in Frie,: Paos

and are mentioned on occasions by BU 82-C* as

being in contact with STEVE MAGGADINO and associates at.

Buffalo, No Y•

Certain information contained in the details of

this report suggesting possible leads or investigation by

other offices has been previously set out in substantive

case files pertaining to individuals whose names appear in

this report.

Investigative periods preceding the date of the

last report are a result of certain data not being available

at the time of dictation of report or being inadvertently

left out during review of pertinent files pertaining to

anti-racketeering subjects.

The source at the Western Pennsylvania National Bank,

Pittsburgh, who furnished information to SA NORMAN T. THOMPSON,

on June 1, 1964, IS DAVID KING, VIce-President, Auditing

Division.

INFORMANTS

PG I-I 1S PG 694-PC, contacted by SA JOHN S. PORTELLA:

PG T-2 1S PG 722-PC, contacted by SA JAMES B. FANNING.

PG T-3 is WILLIAM RABEN, Lewisburg, Pa., (request)

contacted by SA GEORGE P. GAMBLIN.

PG T-4 1s CV 557-PC, contacted by the Cleveland

office.

PG I-5 1S PG 632-C, contacted by SA ROBERT A. VOEGE.

PG T-6 1S PG 640-CTE, contacted by SA JAMES B. FANNING•

PG T-T 1s CV 344-C, contacted by the Cleveland

office.

•C .

COVER PAGE

NW 65994 Docld:32305111 Page 4

---

## Page 5

PG 92-599

PG T-8 1s JOSEPH NUGARA, JR., Braddock, Pa. (request),.

contacted by SAS SAMUEL A. MILLER and M. JAMES KRUSCHKE.

PG T-9 1S FRANK SALA, McKeesport, Pa. (request)

contacted by SAs MILLER and KRUSCHKE.

PG T-10 1s CG 6670-PC, contacted by the Chicago

office.

PG T-11 IS PG 657-CTE, contacted by SA JAMES B.

FANNING.

PG T-12 1s JOSEPH F. BAZZONE, Irwin, Pa. (request),

contacted by SAs MILLER and KRUSCHKE.

PG T-13 1S PG 704-PC, contacted by SA WILLIAM B.

ANDERSON, JR.

PG I-14 1S PCI NICK VAGNOVIC, contacted by

SA MILLER.

PG T-15 1S PCI BETTY ORRIS, contacted by SA MILLER.

PG T-16 1s PG 661-C, contacted by SA MILIER.

PG T-17 IS PCI S. JOHN DAY, contacted by SA NORMAN T.

THOMPSON.

PG T-18 is PCI EDWARD M. BURKE, contacted by

SA NORMAN T. THOMPSON.

PG T-19 1S PH 614-CTE, contacted by the Philadelphia

office.

PG I-20 1S PCI JOSEPH TOPOLINO, contacted by the

Miami Office...

PG T-21 1s PG 707-C,

contacted by SA THOMAS G.

FORSYTH,

III.

PG T-22 1S PCI ANTHONY CAMARATA, Security

Investigator, SEC, NY, contacted by the New York office.

-D-

COVER PAGE

Did. 109.!

NW 65994 Docld:32305111 Page 5

---

## Page 6

PG. 92-599

PG T-23 1S TONY ANDOLINA, Brentwood, Pa. (request),

contacted by SA NORMAN T. THOMPSON.

PG I-25 15 JOHN MORAN, Court Place, Pittsburgh,

contacted by SA JAMES B. FANNING.

PG I-26 1s SF 2354-CTE, contacted by the San

Francisco Office.

PG

T-27 1s CV 554-PC, contacted by the Cleveland

Office.

- E*

COVER PAGE

NW 65994 Docld:32305111 Page 6

---

