# DOCID-32400491

## Page 1

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER

RECORD SERIES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

: CIA

: 104-10126-10360

JFK

80T01357A

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

CIA

AGENCY ORIGINATOR

FROM

TO

TITLE

DATE

PAGES

JOURNAL - OFFICE OF LEGISLATIVE COUNSEL, MONDAY - 6

DECEMBR 1976.

12/06/1976

1

SUBJECTS : OLC JOURNAL

DOCUMENT TYPE

CLASSIFICATION : PAPER

SECRET

RESTRICTIONS

1B

CURRENT STATUS

: RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 08/07/93

COMMENTS : JFK57 : F13 : 1993.08.07.09:42:16:780028

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection &ct of

1992 |44 USC 2107 Notel. Case#iNw

65924 Date: 10-26-2021

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10126-10360

NW 65924 Docld:32400491 Page 1

---

## Page 2

CIA INTERNAL USE ONEY

SECRET

JOURNAL

OFFICE OF LEGISLATIVE COUNSEL

HSCA

Monday - 6 December 1976

Contort

1. (Unclassified - BAA) LIÁISON Carol Amato, Ilo 5elo

Committee on Assassinations staff, called and cancelled the meeting

be held this morning between Richard Sprague, Chief Counsel of the

Committee, Sid Stembridge, DD/OS, and Mr. Cary. Another meeting was

set for 10:30 tomorrow morning. Mr. Stembridge was advised.

2. (Unclassified - BAA) EMPLOYMENT Jason Cook, in the office

of Representative Gus Yatron (D., Pa.), called to schedule an employment

interview for Elias "Lee' Tallas, a constituent. An interview was set

with Mr. Howard Eissner, WARO, for 3:00 this afternoon.

3. (Confidential - GLC) FAA/LIAISON Called Rob Roy Ratliff,

National Security Council, and he confirmed that the President had signed

another Presidential finding on 3 December.

, 4. (Secret - GLC) FAA ALERT/LIAISON Called Guy McConnell,

Senate Appropriations Committee staff, and alerted him to the information we

had on the Bob Woodward article, gave him the essential information on

the discussions between ourselves and State Department on the Micronesia

Station and the fact that legal memoranda had been submitted to the

Department of Justice.

I mentioned to McConnell my discussions with Charles Snodgrass,

Defense Subcommittee staff, House Appropriations Committee, about what

the Senate is doing on the authorization bill.

I told him we had received a cable from the field concerning Bill

Jordan's, also of the Committee staff, interest in a sensitive project at

that station. I told McConnell that we would be prepared to give Jordan a

limited briefing on this matter when he returns from his trip.

I also told McConnell that we had another Presidential finding and

that Tom White would be by to give him the details.

CIA INTERNEL USE ONLY SECRET

Laner a Dinner

20404

NW 65924 Docld:32400491 Page 2

---

