# DOCID-32271385

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

2/8/2016

• AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER:

HSCA

180-10142-10081

RECORD SERIES:

CIA SEGREGATED COLLECTION

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 23-05-03

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

HSCA

CIA

Released under the John F. Kennedp

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

56000 Date: 11-04-2021

prigina copy redacted

DATE: 00/00/0000

PAGES:

52

SUBJECTS :

OSWALD, LEE, POST-RUSSIAN PERIOD, TRAVEL, TRIP TO

MEXICO

DURAN, SILVIA, STATEMENT BEFORE WC

DOCUMENT TYPE: REPORT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 1A; 1B

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 01/01/2003

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS :

Box 12

NW 66000 Docld:32271385 Page 1

---

## Page 2

201

CIA HAS AROBJECTION

DECLASSIFIO

VON ANDIOR

ROCUMENT

RELEASE OF TH

acted

A

When the Central Intelligence Agency

forwarded

to the Warren Commission a copy of Duran's signed state-

ment. It read as follows:

•.. she remembered... (that Lee Harvey Oswald)

was the name of

to the Cuban Consulate to obtain a visa to

travel to Cuba in transit to Russia, the

latter part of September or the early part of

October of this year, and in support of his

application had shown his passport, in which

it was noted that he had lived in that country

for a period of three years; h's labor card

from the same country written in the Russian

language; and letters in that same language.

He had presented evidence that he was married

to a Russian woman, and also that he was ap-

parently the leader of an organization in the

city

of New Orleans called

"Fair ***(Play)

for

Cuba," claiming that he should be accepted as

a "friend" of the Cuban Revolution.

According-

1y, the declarant, complying with her duties,

took down all of the information and completed

the appropriate application form;

and the

declarant, admittedly exceeding her responsi-

bilities,

informally telephoned

the Russian con-

sulate, with the intention of doing

what

she

could to facilitate issuance of the Russia visa

to Lee Harvey Oswald.

However, they told her

that there would be a delay

of

about four months

in processing the

case,

which annoyed the appli-

cant since, according

to his

statement, he was

in a great hurry

to obtain visas

that would

enable him to travel to

Russia, insisting on

his

right: to do

so in view of his background

and

his loyalty and his activities in behalf of

the Cuban movement. The declarant was unable

to recall accurately whether or not the appli-

cant told her he was a member of the Communist

Party, but he did say" that his wife***was then

in New York City, and would follow him, ***

(Senora Duran stated) that when Oswald under-

stood that it was not possible to give him a

Cuban visa without his first having obtained

the Russian visa, ***he became very excited or

NW 66000 Docld:32271385 Page 2

---

## Page 3

angry,

and accordingly, the affiant called

Consul

Ascue

(sic),***

(who)

came. out and

began a heated discussion in English with

Oswald,

that

that concluded by Ascue telling him

"if it were up to him, he would not

give him the visa," and

"a person of his

type was harming

the Cuban Revolution rather

than helping it,

" it being understood that

in their conversation they were talking about.

the Russian Socialist Revolution and not the

Cuban.

Oswald maintained that he had two rea-

sons for requesting that his visa be issued

promptly, and

were: one, that his tourist

permit in Mexico was about to expire;

the other, that he had to get to Russia as

quickly

as possible.

Despite her annoyance,

the declarant gave Oswald

a papert*tin which

she put down her name,

"Silvia Duran," and

the number of the

telephone at the consulate,

which is

"11-28-47" and the visa application

was processed anyway.

It was sent to the

Ministry of (Foreign) Relations of Cuba; from

which a routine reply was received

teen to thirty days later, approving the visa,

but on the condition that

the Russian visa

be obtained first, although she does not re-

call whether or not Oswald leter telephoned

her at the consulate number that she gave

him.

705

The Central Intelligence Agency had relied on

Duran's statements but had delted Duran's description

of Oswald as blonde and short.

(Supinch). It had also

excised Duran's statement, "The only aid she could give

Oswald was advising that he see the Soviet Consul, and

calling the person in charge of that office" which

alluded to Oswald asking for some type of aid at the

428-9073

Cuban Consulate.

to

prublems

thes

Had the statements been included, the Warren commi

Conclusions would not have seemed

as strong.

NW 66000 Docld:32271385 Page 3

---

## Page 4

"EA

The Warren Commission Staff was not completely

satisified with Ms. Duran's ten page signed statement

obtained by the Mexican authorities.

W. David Slawson

wrote:

We then discussed ... the problem of (inter-

viewing) Silvia

Duran.

We pointed out that

our only interest in

witnesses (in Mexico)

other than Duran was to get their formal

testi-.

mony for authentication purposes.... This was

not true of Duran, however, because

been interviewed only by the Mexican police

and we considered that interview inadequate.

(I should point out that we do not consider

it totally inadequate, however.

It is only

on details such as Oswald's physical appearance,

side comments

or remarks he may have made, etc.,

that we would like to interrogate Mrs. Duran

further.

On the essential point of whether

or not his contacts with the Embassy

consisted

of anything other than

an attempt to

teen exhausted " Puran's knowledge has probably

(Menor anturo

tO MEX

CIty, Fro

thetical

in the original.) The Warren Commission staff's attempts

to interview Ms. Duran never succeeded.

* for

the record be pi

a to Mexico City

vid Slawson,

1/22/64) Ms. Duran was not interviewed by Americans

until 1976, when two reporters from the Washington Pöst

710.

interviewed her.

7) On June 6, 1978, representatives

the noise select Committee on Assassinations inter-

viewed Ms. Duran in Mexico City-

Dary nie

NW 66000 Docld:32271385 Page 4

---

## Page 5

VI. Information not available at the time of the

Warren Conmission INVESTIGAtIoN

Silvia

TiRAdO (NES DUPAN)

aucan

• House Select Committee on

Assassinations: 6/6/78

Interview of Silvia Tirado

Ms. Tirado Mural divorced Horatio Duran in 1968)

was never questioned by American officials

in 1963. Thus,

the Committee established contact with the Mexican

90-

vernment and requested that the Mexican

?,government make

Silvia Triado available for an interview.

Fetter HSCA

The Mexican government complied on 6/6/78. Ms. Tirado

told the House Select Committee on Assassinations the

following:

N0

Lee Harvey Oswald visited the Cuban Con-

sulate thrée times on September 27, 1963, not

twice

as the Warren Commission previously re-

ported..

(ASe

JE

swald first visited the

Cuban Consulate at approximately 11:00 a.m.y

requesting an intransit visa to Cuba with Russia

.713

the final destination.

showed her some documents, then, left to ob-

ain photographs needed for his application..

(bid 52526)'

NW 66000 Docld:32271385 Page 5

---

## Page 6

204

DO NOt INDENt-

Oswald returned at approximately 1:00

715

p.m. with four photographs.

(Ivid

Ms. Tirado typed the application in dupli-

cate, stapled a picture on top of each and

* 716

had Oswald sign each in her presence. i

As identification, Oswald showed

her documents he had brought: his Russian

labor card, marriage certificate with the

name of his Russian wife, his American Com-

munist Party membership card and his "Fair

Play for Cuba" membership card." (tore, pa sala)

Ms. Tirado found Lee Harvey Oswald's be-

havior suspicious because normally a Communist

traveled only with his passport as belonging

to the Communist Party was illegal in Mexico

718

in 1963. (Ibit, pa 5330)

There was

a procedure whereby the American

Communist Party would arrange visa matters

their members with the Cuban Communist Party. X

d:, p- 532533): The American would then

come to Mexico, visit the Cuban Consulate, and

receive his Visa immediately. (Tore

When Tirado asked Oswald why he did not have

the American Communist Party arrange his trip

to cuba, he stated that he had not had the time.

x

721-

52322. )

NW 66000 Docld:32271385 Page 6

---

## Page 7

After explaining

to Oswald

that he had to ac-

quire a Russian

visa before he could receive a Cuban

visa, Tirado jotted her name and business phone number

a piece

of paper and gave it to Oswald who then left

to get his

Russian visa." (hite posite, sas

Oswald returned to the Cuban Consulate between

5:00 p.m. and 6:00 pomi2s *

which was after normal working

hours, 310:00 to 2:00 p.m.y bited) The guard

called Tirado, stating that someone who did not speak

Spanish was at the gate inquiring about a visa. tibid,

p 543d). As routine procedure, she

asked the guard

to escort the individual to her office. (Told, puad.)

Oswald told her that he had acquired a Russian

544.) Since he did not produce it when asked,

she called the Russian consulate." (bid, p. stg.) The.

Consul told Duran

that Oswald had been to the Consulate

requesting

a visa and had been told that the reply would

take approximately four months. (sure, 37x) When

she relayed the message to Oswald, he got very excited,

insisting that as a person who had been in jail because

229

of the Cuban Revolution he should receive a visa. tIbia

546- Oswald stated that he could not wait that long

because his Mexiean visa expäred in three days bit,

=546) : At. this point, Ms. Tirado informed Consula

NW 66000 Docld:32271385 Page 7

---

## Page 8

-206-

Eusebio Azcue of the situation.

Azcue had

been

73'

(Ibid, p, 5046.)

his private office which he shared

73?

with his upcoming replacement, Alfredo Mirabal.

Past) Azcue politely explained the requisites for

an

intransit visa to Oswala? abid po

A 6554. ) When

he noticed

that Oswald was a stubborn man he told Os-

wald that he was obviously not a friend of the Cuban

revolutiong because he would otherwise understand that

Cuba had to be extremely careful with the people it al-

lowed in the country.

(Mid:, - 5540) Azcue and Oswald

yelled at each other.

t510., P. 594) Then Azcue went

to the door, opened it and asked Oswald to leave.

554.) Oswald did not revisit of telephone the Consu-

Tad., . 304) Ma. Tirado deserted Lee Harvey

Oswald as approximately five feet six, withyblonde hair,

weighing about 125 pounds, ladd

bich, p. 196.)

2. CIA information not available at the time of

the

Warren Commission investigation.

a. LIRING/3 allegation.

In 1967 a report that Silvia duran had had

intimate relations with

Lee Harvey Oswald came to the

attention of the Central Intelligence Agency's Mexico

City Station. "atep walace Rowton meeting with

bRING May 2196) The source, LIRING/3, da souree

he CIA rated extremely peliable) stated that he had recently

/ NW 66000 Docld:32271385 Page 8

---

## Page 9

-207-

no abid

received a call from Silvia Duran.

A

telephone tap on

LTRING3', telephone confirmed that the eat had belnd

(IN) LIRING/3 reported that he had visited

Silvia to renew acquaintances.

Tbiel.) During the visit,

Duran told LIRING/3 that shechadymet lee Harvey Oswald

at the Cuban Consulate when he applied for a

visa and

743

had dated him on several occasions.

(Tozict.) Duran

(nat

admitted that she had intimate relations with Oswald,

but insisted that she had no idea of his plans.

In addition, Duran told LIRING/3 that when the news of

the assassination became public knowledge, the Mexican

government arrested her and during the interrogation

beat her until she admitted that she had had an affair

+7460

with Lee Harvey Oswald. (Ebid.) Rowton (BIRING/s

case offleer pseudonym) counseled LIRING/3 against

any further contact with Duran because the Cubans or

the Mexican police might become suspicious of him.

*747

(Bora. ) There

is

no indication in Rowton's report as

to why contact with Silvia Duran would make the Mexican

police suspicious of the agent.

The report also notes

that Ms. Duran says that she has not had contact with

.748 * (1510.)

the Cubans since the time of the assassination./ There

is no indication in the report as to why LIRING/3's

contact with Duran would make the Cubans suspicious.

The CIA Mexico City Station reported this information

to Headquarters:

First that Silvia Duran had sexual intercourse

ANW 66000 Docld:32271385 Page 9

---

## Page 10

- 208=

with Lee Harvey

Oswald on several occasions

when the latter

was

in Mexico is probably

new, but adds

little to the Oswald case.

Second the Mexican police did not report

the extent of the

to this Station. * 149

Duran-Oswald relationship

(TMMA-527-4305427/67.) VThis was not the first report

of such a relationship between Oswald and Duran. Elena

Garrorreported the same information t

to Charles Thomas

in 1965.

unladditie

In

hex chronology of the Mexico City investigation of Oswald

ThE

-sotes: "Why didn't Mexi police give us

all info?"

PA7X

241

, entr

T0.613.

That the Mexican government did not disclose all the

AMErICAN Authorities

information

in their possession to the central Intelligence

raises one of two possibilities:

1) the Mexican

government did not want to disclose that

one of thets citizens had had intimate relations with.

the

assassin

of

John Kennedy; or

2)

Silvia Duran

was

a Mexican penetration agent in the

Cuban Consulate and the Mexican government was protecting

its their informant by minimizing her relationship with.

3) or they forgot a pipe imp

mis fate

The possibility that Silvia Duran

was an

agent for either American, Mexican

or Cuban

Intelligence.

Since the

publication of the Warren Commission

Report in September 1964, critics have written

about

the

possibility

that Silvia Duran was

an

intelligence

NW 66000 Docld:32271385 Page 10

---

## Page 11

-209-

agento for either the Americans, Mexicans or Cubans.

EN

(1) was Silvia Duran an agent,yor Mexi San ece

American intelligencere

In an effort to resolve this question, the House

N ASSASSINATIONI

Select CommitteeVreviewed the United States investigative

agencies' files on Silvia Duran!

The Committee found

no evidence in

this file

review

that Silvia Duran was

either an American

or Mexican intelligence agent.

In addition, the Committee has interviewed most

of the Mexico City Station employees about the possibility.

Only David Phillips, Chief of Covert Action and the

- a pastille,

Cuban Section in the Mexico City Station in 1963, consi

dered that Duran was

possibly an agentoR souRch

Phillips

stated that "at one time the agency pitched almost

everyone at the Cuban Embassy. "

(Phittips

Iterview,

E1.30788. "Pitetechniss

LAtO

designate an attemp

đaal.)

Mr.

Phillips stated that he had first heard

Duran's

name from the telephone intercept transcripts.

But Mr. Phillips asserted that the CIA had no interest

in Ms Duran because "She wasn't friendly with

anyone."

(Ibid.) Mr. Phillips had previously mentioned the CIA..

Mexico City Station's interest in recruiting a

former

Cuban Ambassador to

Mexico named Lachuga.

Mr. Phillips

was shown

memorandum written by w. David Slawson of

the Warren Commission Staff regarding his trip to Mexico,

by WARREN.

commissiono

S+AFF

MEMBEaS

NW 66000 - Docld:32271385 Page 11

---

## Page 12

-210-

which

said:

Mr. Scott' (Chief of the CIA Station in Mexico

City) narrative disclosed that the CIA's action

immediately

after the assassination consisted

basically

of alerting all its confidential

sources of information throughout Mexico to

immediately channel all information into

their

headquarters, and of compiling as

complete dossiers

as possible on Oswlad and

everyone else throughout Mexico who at that

time

the CIA knew had had

some contact with

Oswald... This meant especially Silvia Duran,

W: 16

who because she had previously been having an

affair with Lechuga,

the former Cuban Ambassador

to Mexico and presently the Cuban representative

at the United Nations, had previously been of

substantial interest to the CIA.... # 758

(femorandan for tire

centexleg

crom

We David Stawson, 4/22/64

Mr. Phillips was surprised by this

tliphasigadded.)

stated: that

"No one let me in on this operation.

go pee But Mr. Phillips added

that

he doubted that Duran would have been pitched because

the Station could not identify any of her weaknesses.

The Committee staff members then told

MI.

Phillips

about the reporting: on file about Ms.

"of the Station's penetration

agents,

LITAMIL/9, at the

the Cuban Embassy.." At one point LITAMIL/9"

had reported

to his case officer that all that would have to be

done to recruit Ms. Duran

was to get a blonde, blue-

eyed American in bed with her.

With this, Mr. Phillips said that it did indeed sound as

if the Station had targeted Ms. Duran for recruitment,

that the Station's interest had been substantial, and that

Leavein

NW 66000 Docld:32271385 Page 12

---

## Page 13

-211-

762

the weaknesses and means had been identified.

Thel lips

Interview 3/3478 Piles) MI. Phillips pointed out,

however, that because Duran had been targeted did not .:

763

necessarily mean that she had been pitched.

In addition, he stated that he had never heard that

TLY #

Duran had been pitched.

Mr. Phillips did state that he would expect that

Ms. Duran's file at the CIA would be "very thick" because

of all the telephone intercepts that concerned her and

the substantial interest that the Station had in

her.

(Ebie.)

He stated that much of the material in her file

should predate the assassination.

(Fbie.) Mr. Phillips

stated that he would be very surprised if Ms. Duran's

201 file was small and contained only a few pre-assassi-

767 (4.1)

nation documents:

his is in fact the case of th

Headquarters 201 file. d

ike samary.) This Committe

has asked the CIA to make Ms. Duran's Mexican "p"

(person-

ality) file available for review.

The CIA informed the

Committee that there was

no "p" file available on Ms.

110

Duran.

An explanation of why there is no-availbale p"

Edenwas

rested FromatherGlAron

27-20

orse when we get ite)

Another CIA employee, Dan Neiscuir, who worked on

an "Oswald Task Force" in late September or early October

of 1975 dealing

with Freedom of Information act law

Yuits brought against the agency concerning the files

on Lee Harvey Oswald, stated that he believed that Ms. DURAN

NW 66000 Docld:32271385 Page 13

---

## Page 14

-212-

may have been a source of information for either the

CIA or the Mexicans.

Mr. Neiscuir could not recall

why he specifically had this recollection, but thought

that it was due to something he had seen in Oswald's

712 gR

file.

He said that it may have been the Agency!s

attempts to protect Ms. Duran after the assassination

and the heavy cable traffic that those attempts genera-

ted that led him to his inference that she was a source

of information for either the Agency or the Mexicans.*

this to thes

Despite LIRING/3's being warned oft

Ms. Duran by

his case ricer, Mr. Phillips statements, and Mr.

Neiscuir's hazy recollections, the Committee can not

definitely resolve whether Silvia Duran was a Mexican

or American

intelligence agent or source.

(2) was

Silvia Duran a Cuban intelligence

agent?

In an effort to resolve this question, the HSCA

reviewed the

"United States investigative agencies' files

on Silvia Duran.

The Committee found no evidence in the

files that would indicate that Ms. Duran was

associated

with Cuban intelligence.

In addition, the HSCA interviewed most of the

Mexico City Station employees about the possiblity that

Duran worked for Cuban intelligence. Only Barney Hidalgo,

a CIA officer who travelled to Mexico City in 1963,

considered the possibility to be likely. Mr. Hidalgo,

NW 66000 Docld:32271385 Page 14

---

## Page 15

-213-

not professing to remember all the details, stated that

he thought that Duran was a Cuban intelligence agent. *

At the time when this contact told me

of Silvia Duran I tied the two together,

yes, sir.

Idon't know, how at that time

it was obvious to me as

an intelligence

agent that

there was some connection there

but it was of no interest whatsoever to me,

I do remember that when I next saw this

of mine I mentioned the fact to

him proceed to do whatever he

(Foid.) Mr.

?is "idalgo further stated that he never resolved

the issue.

(Fbid

With no corroborating evidence for Mr. Hidalgo's

memory, the Committee must conclude that Silvia Duran

was

probably

never employed by Cuban

intelligence.

B. The Cubans...

1. Eusebio Azcue Lopez.

When Lee Harvey Oswald allegedly visited the Cuban

Consulate, Eusebio Azue Lopez, a Cuban Kitbizen, was

279%

the Cuban Consul.

Because he had diplomatic immunity,

the Cuban government had

never been asked to make him

available for questioning.

(azere traveled ron Monicorto

NW 66000 Docld:32271385 Page 15

---

## Page 16

2

REPrESENTATIVES OF

In an effort torinvestigate Vcon-

OSWALD'S

tactswithVthe Cuban government, the Commi

tteepasked

the

Cuban

government to make Eusebio Azcue available for

781

Committee and

staff interviews.

ter from ustAto

Cabarr

The

Cuban government complied with the Committee's request

78z

on April 1.

went

During that interview Mr. Azcue alleged that the

Dallas Police Station

man"

was not the

late in 1963.

(1496)

Trierof Fu

2 FK DOC t

In addition,

Mr. Azcue

stated that Alfredo Mirabal, who in September

1963, had

recently arrived from Cuba to assume the Con-

sul's duties, had also been present during Oswald's

visit. fIbid.,

DuRINg A sEcoNd trif

1) The Committee traveled to Cuba,

the committe to interview Alfredo Mirabal.

fee

Cuba

trip ?.) Subsequent to this

second trip to Havana, the Committee asked the Cuban

government to make Eusebio Azcue and Alfredo Mirabal

available for the public hearings on September 18, 1978

* 286

...)

The Cuban government complied with the Committee's re-

quest.

NW 66000 Docld:32271385 Page 16

---

## Page 17

215

ix-

Eusebio Azcue Lopez told the House Select Committee

Assassinations at he fublic fearingo on 9/18/18

the following:

Dot

Indest

An individual who gave the name Lee

Harvey Oswald visited the Cuban Consulate on

+787

three occasions in late September and early.

October 1963*288

(Mr. zeue coutd not pimpoint

the extet dates of the visit. (Put

-Hea-k-

ing restimany of Fusebio Azcue Lopez, 49/1-8/78,

pp 3031.) The individual first visited the

Cuban Consulate during workings hours, re-

questing an intransit visa to Cuba with Russia

789

as the final destination.'

The man showed the

searctary, Silvia Duran, some documents* leor

marist party membership card, fair Play for

cuba membership card, Soviet Union residence

dard, marriage certificate with the name of

his Russtan wife) which he believed would be

*281

sufficient to obtain a visa. Mublic Hearing

timony of

que boper, 9/18/78;

When the secretary would not grant

him a visa, the man asked he to see whether

upon examination of the documents aneue could

grant him a visa.

(Hid p. 29 30) Azcue

783.%

answered negatively.'

(Ibid:, p. 30) The indi-

NW 66000 Docld:32271385 Page 17

---

## Page 18

214

та

15

wis

2

vidual then

left to obtain photographs needed for

784

his application.

The man probably returned on September 27, 196,*785

with the photographs and completed the applications in

Ms. Duran's presence tib

→ 3 32) As the amount of

time required to process this document could have taken

as long as twenty days. or the response could have been

Azcue told the man that he could grant him

Carvisa to cuba, without consulting his government, if

ne nad a Russian visa

The individual

attempt to

then left to (obtain his Russian visa.'

(Ibie p, 33)

After the man left the Cuban Consulate, Azcue

789

880

received a telephone call

*

from the Soviet Consule.

(Antee er

se the

SImE

a call.

(Publie Heari

my of Fusebio badue boper

9/78/78, 0.-341

The Soviet Consul explained that the

man's documents were legitimate, but that the soviet Con-

sulate could not issue a visa until it received authori-

$ 291

zation from Moscow. (Thiap 35)

Emphasizing that the Cuban Consulate never re-

$ 792.

ceived visitors after working hours 110-00 200) Mr.

Azque opined that the individual probably. returned to-

the consulate on september 28, 1963.?7

When Azcue explained to Oswald that he could not grant

him a visa, the man made statements directed against

NW 66000 Docld:32271385 Page 18

---

## Page 19

7941

Cuba and called cuba a bureaucracy." (bitp.38

At

that point, Azcue became upset and asked the individual

to leave the consulate lena. y

Oswald did not

× 7961

revisit the Consulate. (Ibit p38)

Mr. Azcue described the man who visited the con-

sulate as follows: a white male, between 5;6" and 5'7",

yover 30 years of age, very thin long face, with straight

791+

eyebrows and a cold look in his eyes.

1750-51

Azcue alleged that he would never have identified Lee

Harvey Oswald as the man who visited the Cuban Consulate

in 1963.

2. ALFSEdO MIrAbAl DIAZ

19974) AHMuG, flade feste, all red that

ANGI

Intorligence Ageat.

Alfredo Mirabal Diaz told the House Select Committee

on Assassinations, at the public hearinge

09/18/78;

the following:

Lee Harvey Oswald, nigeking a visa, visited

$799

the Cuban Consulate twice in September 1963.

(Public Testimony, Alfredo

-Diez, 9/18/

(Mr.

Mirabat e

pimpoint

the

oswald's visit but opined

that the secona

visit occurred on September 27,

1967) Since Mirabal could not speak English

though he was the new Consul, ex-Consul Azcue

800

handled the matter. (Ire

• p. 117)

On both

NW 66000 Docld:32271385 Page 19

---

## Page 20

occasions there were such loud arguments between

Oswald and Azcue that Mirabla thought that the man's

visit to the Consulate was a case of provocation x 801

Though Mirabal caught only glimpses of the man

he opined that the person whose picture appears on

Lee Harvey Oswald's visa application was the same

Lee Harvey Oswald who visited the Consulate.

seri

C. Elena Garro de Paz.

In October 5, 1964, eleven days after the

Elena Garco de palubli-

cation of the Warren Commission Report, & story alleging

Lee Harvey Oswald's presence at a party in Mexico City

attended by Cuban government personnel came to the at-

x(80))

tention of the Central Intelligence Agency.

(73-7247,

p.- 94, entry

Blind memo dated 10/5/611

1. Elena's story

as reported October 5, 1964.

(804)

Elena Garro de Paz

¿(see appentia, for biegeaphy: )

and Deba Garro de Guerrero Galvan, first cousins of

Horatio, Ruben, and Lydia Duran, were invited to a

twist party at the home of Rube Duran in the middle

of the week in the fall of 1963.

Lee Harvey Oswald

was alleged to have been at this party in the company

of "two other beatnik-looking boys. " " (Iora.)

NW 66000 Docld:32271385 Page 20

---

## Page 21

219

- 20

-

The Americans remained together the entire evening

and did not dance.. When Elena tried to speak with the

Americans, she was "shifted" to another room by one of

* 808

her cousins. (#bid.) The memo does not state whether

Elena

had mentioned which cousin had not allowed her

to speak to the Anericans.dr

One of Elena's cousins

told her at the time that (he or she) did not know

who the Americans were except that Silvia Duran (an

employee of the Cuban Embassy and the wife of Horatio

809

Duran), had brought them to the party.

The day after the party, Elena and Deba saw the

three Americans on the Insurgentes, a main avenue in

Mexico City. (Isit. The Garros claimed that they had

recognized Oswald's photograph when it was published

after the assassination. (Ibid.) Silvia Duran's ar-

rest "underlined the Garros' certainty" that the man had

been Lee Harvey Oswald. (ird)

The source of the memo was a

witting Central In-

telligence Agency asset known by the cryptonym LICOOKIE 1

O whom the Cormittee identified as June Cobb Sharp while

Reviewing ticookIe ofile. According to Blena, Ms.

cobb was sent to her house shortly after the assassina-

tion for a few days, by a mutual friend, a Costa Rican

814

writer named Eunice odio. (M

NW 66000 Docld:32271385 Page 21

---

## Page 22

220

- 21-

ecile

219) Ms. Garro asserted

that while at her house, Ms. Cobb expressed interest

815

In the Kennedy assassination. (Fate) One nighy Elena's

sister Deba, who was visiting, got drunk and told the

816

whole story.

(tirs) Claiming to be a CIA agent, Cobb

suggested that Elena and Deba go to Texas to tell their

811

story. (Iord.) Elena stated that when Cobb's suggestion

was rejected, Cobb stated that she would arrange a meet-

818x

ing with the CIA Station Chief.

twinston-scott-was.the

Mer

tystation

IT 964) The meeting did not

occur because Ms. Cobb was asked to leave the Garro

house evidently because she kicked Elena's cat. forA

NoT

I Entry.

104-2

47190) A

notation on the memo says that L/1

nicookie

ALL

regained contact with Elena Garro de Paz.

CaPS

820

17241

never

Entry 1430,014 1721Bline Memo dated 10564 ELA

#576.)

The fatall memo was not inserted in either the

821

Elena Garro or Lee Harvey Oswald

₽":

(personality) filege

CAP

but in a local leftist and Cuban project file. The Com-

mittee learned about the memo from Wx-7241, a chronolo-

gical history of the oswala case prepared by May vod-

actuse for the CIA in 1976)

The memo was found in De-

cember,

1965g

1734 CIA 421., Stanley

Watson.

QUt

A marginal notation on Wx7241

NW 66000 Docld:32271385 Page 22

---

## Page 23

221

- 22-

823

says, "Why was this not sent to Headquarters?" (p. 87,

CIA #714.) The Committee has been able to determine

that the memo was forwarded to headquarters shortly

thereafter.

2 October 12, 1964 CIA Memo for the Recora

CIA MEXICO CITyStAtION'S

on. October 12, 1964 theVChief of Covert Action,

Jim Flannery, wrote a memo for the record reporting

that Elena Garro de Paz had told ther story.

to Eunice

odio.

The Committee has not been able to determine

if Elena Garro told Ms. Odio the story personally or

thestry

if Ms. Cobb related to Ms. Odio what Elena had tedd

who relayed it to "Tichborn"

825

(Ti

enxy

Mr

fu

310

een

able

Odio

96,

MS

164.

sion.

p. )

The story is not as detailed as the 10/5/64 ver-

There is no mention of Deba Garro Guerrero Gal-

The story, perhaps because it is third hand, dif-

It states that

fers from the previous story in two areas. the party

AS appOSEO tO

AND thAt

was at the Cuban Embassy, not at Ruben Duran's;

Elena

talked to a Cuban Embassy officialo

INSTEAS

ret one of hei

NW 66000 Docld:32271385 Page 23

---

## Page 24

22z

- 23-

terr

cousins about the three Americans.

Attached to the memo was a note from Flannery to

the Chief of Station, Winston Scott, which read, "Do

you want me to send the gist of this to Headquarters?"

826

Scott then noted that the memo should be filed.

The

file indications show that the memo went into the Oswald

8>7

"p" file and the Elena Garro "p" file. (Ibid.)

3.0 November 24, 1964 CIA Informant Report

On November 24, 1964 a Central Intelligence Agency

AGENt 828

mant. (the House

"select committee has been unable. to

determine the

not appear In any CIA

Identity sinee his trame deas

files) reported information?)(meno

fran Wanton seott-to the fileste June obo1/564,

92-59.32

72411288

AN ASSET,

derived fron'"LICHANI/1?, $30

ite reviewiny ITchANt's

fite the Committee determined that the CIA asset, true

ewing John f. kennedy's assassiation Cal ville escorted

and her daugner to the vermont Hotel for protection;

toe also December 25, 1965 Phomas meno, for monentona

ony the auntient asserted that

June Cobb was an

"American Communist" who rented.a room

831

from Elena Garro.

ton scott

To theres

NW 66000 Docld:32271385 Page 24

---

## Page 25

223

- 24-

CIA NOS

715. )

-to tal

7241,

The cat

state

he

wh

mat

house.

tra:) In addition, the informant. claimed that Elena hed

also told her story to an American official at the

Embassy, who claimed to represent the Warren Commission. 832

(Tbid-

The Chief of Station noted that he had asked

833

LICHANI

to pursue the story

indication thatthe e

fateh) but there is no

tollowed there-ah

request. 834

(FISCA

the

ments.)

GARRO

4.

November 24, 1964 Elena Meeting with Mexico City Legal

Attache Officers

Elena and her daughter fIst told their story to

_OnNOVEMBER 24,1964.835

the Mexico City Legal Attache!

(The Legal Attache in

1964 was Clark Anderson.) They recounte

the same story

previously given to June Cobb sharpsi

party

• as September 30, October 1 or October 2,

1963

831(FE

5552

Repo

pr1.) The agent who wrote the

830

report (

) noted that Lee Harvey

Oswald could not have been identical with the American

allegedly observed by Mrs. Paz at the party if this party

NW 66000 Docld:32271385 Page 25

---

## Page 26

22

- 25

were held on the evening of october 1 of

October 2,

1963." (FBI 103-825555 Report, December 11, 1964 entitled

840

Lee Harvey Oswald, p. 1)

resa cent

or nachest

15:0

18930a

that shể sắm been

Elena was questioned regarding the identity of

other persons attending the party at the Ruben Duran

home who might have been in a position to observe the

841 Coops

three Americans.

Elena stated that in the course of the

party her daughter met a young man named "Alejandro"

842 Artirt

at the party and danced with him. He was apparently

quite smitten with the daughter and tried to call her

843 p0

on several occasions after the party. tibid, p-3)

The daughter did not take the calls and as a result

844

"Alejandro" wrote several letters to the daughter.

#bid, pruza Ms. Garro exhibited two of the letters,

as well.as a business card which identified the young

845

man as Ario Alejandro Lavagnini Stenius. bid p. 3)

The letter which Ms. Garro said was the first writ-

ten by the young man to her daughter bore the date Septem-

ber 1, 1963 and the Mexico City Post Office postmark datza

844 notes)

September 2, 1963.

when Ms. Garro, kas told is she

this was pointed out to

NW 66000 Docld:32271385 Page 26

---

## Page 27

225

- 26-

commented that the Communists probably had facilities

for falsifying poster 8? i

REPIESENTATIVES

To investigate Ms. Garro's story further, where

-LGALATTACHISOFFICI

Federal Bureau interviewed Ario Alejandro Lavagnini

stenius on November 27, 1964. (bid, pA) Lavagnini

recalled that there were approximately thirty people

at the

Rubắn Duran's party, few of whom he knew.

6845

He re-

called having met a Mexican girl who had recently re-

8700

turned from living infrance. He was unable to fix the

date of the party, but felt it was porbably early in

september because of a heavy rain which occurred as they

851

were leaving the party about 2:00 a.m.. (Ibid., pr

Lavagnini Soled that no Americans"present at this

party.

was familiar with the physical description

of Lee Harvey Oswald because of publicity following the

assassination of President Kennedy, but otherwise had

no knowledge of him and had never seen him except for

853

news photographs following the assassination. bit.,

Ilvagnint was the only person interviewed by the

LELAL ATTACHE REprEsEntAtives

FBI

who attended parties at

the Duran house in the Sep-

tember-October time frame:

There is no indication on the FBI document that

this information was given to the Central Intelligence

Agency's Mexico City Station:

NW 66000 Docld:32271385 Page 27

---

## Page 28

226

- 27-

intr

mr n

ove.)

Charles Thomas' first Meeting with Elena Garro Where

Lee harvey Oswald is Discussed,

On 12/10/65, Charles Thoyas,

a political officer

at the anerican imhasey, wrote a mergandul about a con-

versation with Elena Garro de Paz. (81A #586587-WX7241

Fatty Nos4250392170.18. The meeting with

85

Elena had been about other matters but she mentioned

557

knowing Oswald.

Thomas noted that she was reluctant

858

to talk but did.

(Teries)

Elena's story reported here is the same as that

given in the Licookie memo dated 10/5/64, but with

more details. She said that General Jose Jesus Clark

Flores (a friend of Ruben Duran's, Silvia Duran,

Emilio Carballido

Eusebio Azcue,

la pro-Communist writer-friend of the

Durans), and a Latin American Negro man with red hair

859 fosted

(unidentified) were at the party. A marginal comment

by this entry in WX-7241 says, "How did Elena know

860

about a red-haired Negro?" Elena also told Thomas

that she had later learned that Silvia Duran had been

86)

Oswald's mistress while he was there."

JAnote by this

entry in wWx-7241 says, "How did Elena Garro know about

sivlia being the mistress of Oswald?? This is 1965.") # 862

The Mexico City Station did not hear about the Oswald-

Duran "affair" until July 1967 when a CIA asset, LIRING/3,

NW 66000 Docld:32271385 Page 28

---

## Page 29

c page

22>

843(5650055

reported it.V MAften

reviewing

TRING/3,

at the

the House select dormittee

mable/

to determine with

Assassinat

whom

LIRING/3

has

was

ass

ted who yould

gave had knowledge about Silvia Duran

or Lee Harvey

swald

Elena told Thomas that she and her daughter had

gone to the Cuban Embassy on November 23, 1963 and

shouted "Assassins" and other insults at the Embassy em-

ployees.

(TA +596-587 Wx7241, Batay NOr 125p-91,

According to flenes

TA Mer 718)

That same day, a friend, Manuel Calvillo, whom the

Garco's thought

to be an

official in the Gobernacion, took her and her daugh-

ter to a small hotel in the center of Mexico City. bid

ElERA GArco And her daughter

Shey were kept there for elant dunder the pret

under the pretext

Communists. 866

that they were in danger! (bat?) Elena claimed the

The told calvillo trashe mator to tel

her story ANd that she

Authorities At the 4.5.

wantedtotallitto the American

Embassy (bid I Calvillo dissuaded

her by telling her that the American Embassy was full

848

of Communist spies. (tbid.) Elena said that some of

the other people who had been at the party were taken

to Veracruz where they were "protected" by Governor

867

Lopez Arias: (shirt, fene

House Sqlect Conmitteg wa

unable to determine the veracity or Ms. eat a

ega-

tibn.

see-us

-t11es

stigation of tient earnes

maz'

alleg

оті: ).

She said that: Ruben Duran, reportedly

NW 66000 Docld:32271385 Page 29

---

## Page 30

228

- 29-

"protected" by General Clark Flores, was very prosper-

ous

and was driving a big car.

87W×-7741,

07t8/) Elena also claimed

that Ruben Duran told her months after the assassination

that he was not really a Communist and that killing Ken-

8,71 elsted

nedy had beën a mistake.

(101

• he House setect Com

has

not,

been able to determine

Elenal about the

assassii

Al te

ns.)

hives

tigation of

Elena Canna de Paz'

tian Ruben Duran claimed he had

no reason to tell Elena that killing Kennedy had been a

872

mistake since he had no involvement.

Charles Thomas circulated a copy of his memorandum

concerning

Elena's allegations in the American Embassy

including the Central Intelligence Agency's Mexico City

Station to aid them in their investigation of the John

81}

F. Kennedy assassination.

The House Seleet Committee

has determined that the Contrad Intelligence Ageney re-

verved

Prof the Thomas menokandam

20- Deeem-

ex?51965 his ext meeting w

o. See

baler. The cos wrote a note on the memo: "What an ima-

84

gination she has!?!

Should we send to Headquarters?"

the meno

The Officer replied,, "Suggest sending. There have.

been stories around town about all this, and Thomas is

NW 66000 Docld:32271385 Page 30

---

## Page 31

229

not the only person she has talked to... If memory

serves me, didn't LICOOKIE refer to Oswald and the

875

local leftists and Cubans in one of her squibs?" fer

fromsWto cos)

The Mexico City Station called the information in

Thomas' 12/10/65 memorandum of conversatione to CIA

826

Headquarters, (Gabbe MomMexier eity the Direetor,

MEXT 5621, date Out off my Copy ClANos 581=585) •

The cable reported that Elena's story would be checked

with LICHANI/1, against the production from

the Cuban

surveillance operation "and other sources."

Winston Scott wrote, next to the routing indications on

the cable, "Please ask Charles Thomas

if he'll 'follow

8e878

up. ' Get questions from Ann$ G.

(Anne foodpartare) .

878

Please let's discuss. Thanks." (Jie)

After the December 10 memorandum of conversationg,

880

88!

Winston Scott (Chief/station) and Nathan Ferris

— Memeo) called

to slack Anderson as begal Attac

882

Charles Thomas for a meeting.

They asked him to get

883

a more detailed account of Ms. Garro's story.

At this

meeting, Winston Scott made it clear that thEBI had full

respons pility for any further investigation in the Oswala

case:

@Pas

NW 66000 Docld:32271385 Page 31

---

## Page 32

230

- 37.

Charles Thomas' Meeting with Elena Garro on December 25,

1965

Thomas met with Elena again on Decmeber 25, 1965.

Or That tsam

date, he wrote a memorandum of conversation

which provided a much more detailed restatement of Ms.

885

Garro's alleged encounter with Lee Harvey Oswald. fei#

7p: 92 00774719)

Elena admitted that she had spokento two men at

7. the Embassy, "presumably from the Legal Attache's Office.

with they

Treated On November 24

supra, p.

Elena said that she did not tell them

the complete story because "the Embassy officers did not

give much credence to anything she and Elenita saia. " 88)

leTs NoS. 580-585-4X-7241, Entry H127, p--92, CTZH719.)

She

stated that the party had been at Ruben Duran's

88%

home.

(Ibid. She was unclear about the date of the

881

she thought

party.

(Ibid.)

It was a few days before the soviet As-

tronaut, Gagarin, visited Mexico; she thought that this

8800

would put the party around September 2 or 3, 1963.

(Tbid:)

She believed that the party was on a Monday of Tuesday

890

because it was an odd night for a party. (Ibia.) Elena

could not check her calendar to refresh her memory at

the time of the

interview because the calendar was ina

desk that had been stored away.

886

NW 66000 Docld:32271385 Page 32

---

## Page 33

stit

the storie

During the conversation, Elena described Oswald.

and his companions. (ibit.) The man who she thought

894

was Oswald wore a black sweater.

(Fbid.). She said he

was quite "and stared a lot at the floor."

895

(Hore.)

One

of his companions "was very tall and slender and had

long blond hair and a rather long protruding chin."

896

fisada) Thother companion was also tall, with short,

light brown hair and no distinguishing characteristics. 897

(Tbid.) The three Americans did not dance or mix with

-the other guests.

sfvia.) Elena saw the same three

899

men on the street the next day. (Ibid. )

Elena was certain that Eusebio Azcue, Horacio

Duran, Silvia Duran, Lydia Duran, Deba Guerrero, General

Cark Flores and his mistress, a doctor from Dalinde

Hospital, a young American couple who

were honeymooning

in Mexico, and several other people were at the party. 7o

(Itaiset.) She said that Ricardo Guerra, whom she claimed

converted Horatio Duran to. Communism, and his wife,

o Castellanos, were supposed to be at the party

but did not attend.

Elena alleged that the red-haired man and Emilio

Carballido were not at the party that Oswald attended

but at another party where Carballido and Azcue got into

a heated argument

about President kennedy. "fiwra.) "They

NW 66000 Docld:32271385 Page 33

---

## Page 34

-4232

teen one usion that the only solution was to

kill him.

"I (Ibia.)

Elena was not clear on whether this

party was before or after the party where she met Oswald, 905

(Fbier

The Hogse select committee has been

unable

firm

the conversation

between

Azcue and Carbaltido

SeCHSCA

Investigation of

Carreder

i tute us stated that the conversation to

OCcurRED,

Elena reiterated that the incident at the Cuban

Embassy, where she

and her daughter shouted "assassins,"

etc. at the Embassy employees, occurred on November 23

at or about 3:00 p.m. (Ibid:) Elena and Elenita were

driven to the Cuban Embassy by Elena's brother who was

908

embarrassed by their behavior. (Ibid.) This occurred

909

before they had seen photographs of Oswald.

fEbia.)

Ms. Garro claimed that later in the day she and

Elenita were visited by Manuel Calvillo who

- Bold them

that they were in serious danger from the Communists

and that he would take them to a small hotel, where they

would be safed for a few days. (ibit.) Elena said she

trusted and believed Calvillo because he was a known

undercover agent for the Mexico Government. (bit.)

91L

He was also a friend of Noe Palomares (the Minister of

913.

Immigration) and President Gustavo Diaz Ordaz. (Tvic)

NW 66000 Docld:32271385 Page 34

---

## Page 35

233

- 34-

Calvillo also told Elena and her daughter that Silvia

Duran had been arrested.

(bia.) Duran's arrest was

not public information bitoventer 23, 19631

(B4)

Elena could not remember the name of the hotel

so that same day (12/25/65) she took Thomas to the

tion of Mexico City where she thought it was. (Ibid.)

The Hotf! Vermont

They found the hotel,,"'(Ibid.) Elena said that she as-

sumed that Calvillo had registered them as relatives or

From SAN Luis PotAsi

Friendsa, fait.) They stayed at the hotel until the fol-

lowing

Friday, November 30, 1963, hardly leaving their

rooms. Hid. thee legal Attache Report pfor

CoTt

Los. )

Elena claimed that while she and Elenita were at

the hotel they saw the photos of Oswald and realized

9.20

that he had been the man at Ruben Duran's party. (Ibid.)

When Calvillo visited them at the hotel, Elena told him

her story, which she related to Calvillo.

hat she wanted to report it to the American Embassy

however, Calville, dissuaded her by saltity that the ameri-

can Embassy was full of Communists. (Ibid.) Elena stated

that when she returned home, guards were posted outside house 917

he.

unabte to

See

HSCA In-

dai

vestigation of Elena Garro's allegations.)

Elena

alleged that after she returned home she saw

her sister, Deba Guerrera, who had independently come to

NW 66000 Docld:32271385 Page 35

---

## Page 36

234

-35-

conclusion:

DURAN'S

Deba was

"terrified" because

approximately two months after the assassination two

"Communists" personally warned her never

to reveal

that she had been to a party with Oswald. (Hoit.) Deba,

consequently, would not accompany Elena to the Ameri-

can Embassy to tell her story on November 21, 1964.925

(Ibia.)

Elena stated that it was "tron knowledge" that

Silvia had been Oswald's mistress.

fCIA 705-580-518301

WX 7241-3nt144772

719.) When asked who

could verify the allegation, she could only remember

927

one person who had told her this.

(Ibia.) Elena claimed

92%

that person was Victor Rico Galan, a "pro-Castro jour-

929

nalist."

Ibid.) Mietor kie tala is dead The eom-

mittee one not very Me, Carrot allegation silvia

Darren deniedathe altegation. Nenethalese du SECTion E, A, 2,a, Abouz.)

A asset, reported, the same story in 1967.)

speufic ouge

This was

with flere.

ng these

oversations, "bana also said that

that bevera hagader an merico mory

han ond

Athe

ISCA has been able to deter

aate.)

Subsequent to December 25, 1965, K

Elena

e) found her ca-.

the Decent

lendar and bad reconstructed the date of the party as

should the be

bee it you bego?

Alas aceting? No.

Same we. mo!

NW 66000 Docld:32271385 Page 36

---

## Page 37

235

- 36-

late september and not early september err

1590--

593, disAl, Entry 1427, p: 42, 05A-+712.) When Tho-

mas went to Ferris' office and informed him, Ferris re-

plied that Elena had given the late September date when

she had originally reported her story at the American

931

Embassy. (FBI Report, 9/30/69, PP. 3-4, JFK DOC. No.

However, Mr. Ferris explained to Thomas that someone who

had been at the twist party had stated that there were no

Americans there.

934b1a.) Mr. Perris dia not tell Mr.

Thomas that Ario Alejandro Lavagnini Stenius &

a 1964 interview had provided this information in 1964.

933

Sug

Mr. Ferris suggested that it was not

necessary for Thomas to pursue Elena's allegations since

he considered the Oswald case closed and had heard all

the rumors before. (FBI Repart 2430469-15313K

DOE

The sthe epartment forwarded (the same day) a

copy of the Chartes thomas memorandum to the Central In-

telligence Agency's Mexico City Station to aid in their it.

investigation of the John f. Kennedy assassination. 435

On the first page of the memorandum of conversation.

Winston scott wrote, "shouldn't we send to Headquarters?"

Someone resonded,

"of course.

" (CT

Betry $127, p92, 01A0710

The notents when

sant to that punis

on December 141945, Entito 56

we son, sopray it

reporting that thing it was following ip and would ralle

the risults 937

NW 66000 Docld:32271385 Page 37

---

## Page 38

236.

37-

7. December 27, 1965 Legal Attache Memo to the United States

Ambassador re Elena Garro

On

December 27, 1965 Nathan Ferris wrote a memo

to the Ambassador reporting that Elena and her daughter

were interviewed on 17 and 24 November 1964 by the Legal

938

Attache's office in Mexico City.

lemo to the Ambassador

In the bega

2/27/65- C11#579 WX-7241,

Entry 129P94, GIA 4721) The meno recorded that

Elena and her daughter had furnished information simi-

lar to the informant reported in Thomas' 12/10/65 memo. 931

The memo further stated,

"Inquiries conducted at that time (Novem

ber 1964), however, failed to substantiate

the allegations made by Mrs. Garro de Paz

and her daughter. In view of the fact that

Mrs. Garro de Paz' allegations have been pre-

viously checked out without substantiation,

no further action is being taken concerning

940

her recent repetition of those allegations.

The Legal Attache forwarded a copy of the memoran-

dum to the Central Intelligence Agency's Mexico City

Statione

(The House select

tee has determined

that the copy was

forwarder prior.to/12/29/13)"2

NW 66000 Docld:32271385 Page 38

---

## Page 39

237

-Bo-

WinstonSe

superimposed a rote to Anne

Gendpasture-O this meme wet read, "Can we send in

tell is what

this Crate

intro

First

estonis

Goodpastue responded Done Memo to the Ambassador

(somthe Legal Attacher 12/27/65, 01

158, Wx 7241

eel

tyle

Fiel

LiCHANT, other scorses

A cable written by Anne Goodpasture on December

29, 1965 reporting the Legat interview with Elena and

the Legat Office's failure to substantiate Elena's story

was sent to leadquarters?"emo trom Mexico etuy to the

Director, 12/29/65, MEXT 579I, CIA 1575 WX 794-pntey

#230, pm 94, CIA #727.) The cable promised to keep

Headquarters advised if any further information were way

944

to developed. (Ibit.)

LICOOKIE's 10/5/64 memo is attached to the 12/29/65 cable (bid)

WX-7241 explained this in a marginal comment, "This

document by LICOOKIE was not in (Oswald's file), but

was copied fron la project file) and attached to MeXI

5741/ 29 Dec: 65."

(Foid.)

A note stapled to this cable by Allen white stated,

"I don't know what FBI did in November 1964, but the

Garros have been talking about this for a long time

947-49

and she is said to be extremely bright.".

Anne Goodpasture

NW 66000 Docld:32271385 Page 39

---

## Page 40

236

- 39

wrote that the FBI had found Elena's allegations un-

substantiated but that "we will try to confirm or

9y8

refute M. Garro de Paz's information and follow up. "" in)

Win Scott wrote,.

"she is also "nuts. ' 94%a., CEn-9577)

A CIA Anvestigation of Elena's Allegation that she Created

* Disturbance at the Luban mbassy on November 23, 1963

On February 3, 1966, Annd Goodpasture forwarded

Thomas' December 25, 1965 memo to the Cuban section at

the Mexico City Station with an attached note asking

-the section

them to check whether Elena was

"seen creating such a

disturbance as they claimed in front of the Cuban Em-

95°

bassy."

(It is apparent that the Mexico City Station was

attempting to either refute or corroborate some of Elena

Garro's allegations.

(Note from Anne Guutpastuce to

5265GIAN0s5799%24l Entry,

#721.)

One Cuban section officer responded,. "No bells

ring with me." Another one wrote,

"Me neither." The

: 9.51:

third officer wrote, "No pictures either." fvia.)

Pothere is no indication that the penetration agents in

the Cuban Embassy were queried about Elena's allegation.

Fier, That there are not pictures is reasonsable since

952

Elena claimed that the event happened: l) on a Saturday

NW 66000 Docld:32271385 Page 40

---

## Page 41

234

- 40-

at 3:00 p.m. when the cuban Embassy

9S GEE SECTION IT, A, 3, ABOVE.Y

photographically surveilled; and 2) the "disturbance"

occurred inside the Cuban compound. HSCA Examination

of the CIA Cuban Embassy photographic surveillance

954

showed no surveillance on 11/23/63.

(Classified Sum-

mary of Staff Review of CIA Doeuments, undated, p- 3,

ETA $763.) The committer freed that Contend Illegace

ns.

9 Legal Attache 2/23/66 Memo to the United States Ambassador

Regarding Elena Garro's Allegations

On 2/23/66 the Legal Attache wrote a memo to the

Ambassador reporting that "extensive investigation"

failed to disclose that Oswald had traveled to Mexico

prior to September 26, 1963 and that no information had

developed that would show that he had not been in New

955

Orleans in the early part of that month. (Memo from Legat

to Ambassador, 2/23/66-ETA

7455,

p, 95 CIA 1722) The memo reiterated that no further

action was being taken by the FBI because Elena's alle-

64 10475956

dations had not been substantiated. Ehtd.) The Legal

Attache forwarded a copy of this memo to the Central In-

telligence Agency's Mexico City Station

(The mouse Se-

Lect comi

1 Assassinat

cons has been unable to

determine when the copy was forwarded_t

rE CIA.) A

Raymond Hoers

marginal comment made by name seepstare-next to this

entry in WX-7241 says, "How can it be ascertained that

Ve matie

states atti

NW 66000 Docld:32271385 Page 41

---

## Page 42

240

10

Oswald did not travel to Mexico prior to early Septem-

ber 1963?

There must be some basis for Elena's report-

ing. "95%

(bit', referenced to Thomas; I2/25/65 memo.)

Legal Attache Memo to Winston Scott re Elena's Allega-

tion that She Had Stayed at the Hotel Vermont from the

Day After the Assassination until November 30, 1963

On 10/13/66, the Legal Attache wrote a memo to

wINsCOTT

the CIA/COS reporting that a reliable confidential in-

formant had reported that the records of the Hotel Ver-

mont disclosed that

erflena Paz, housewife from San Inis

Potosi," had registered at the Hotel Vermont

Novem-

ber 23, 1963. She left on November,

360, 1963. lIente

Exam tregat to Winston Scott, 10/13/66, CTA NO. 564;

WX-7241, Entry 1466,p- 98, CIA F125; Thomas' 1/13/66

memo. i

The House Select Committee on Assassinations

has been unable to determine why the Central Intelli-

gence. Agency and the Federal Bureau of Investigations

waited until 1966 to investigate this aspect of Elena's

story.Я

The memo said, "The above individual may or

961

may not be identifical with Elena Garro de Paz. (bid.)

stuting

Charles Thomas' 12/25/65 memo comoborates plena

Garco'Sp

the hotel vermont. It stares,

"She

and her daughter did not personally register at the

NW 66000 Docld:32271385 Page 42

---

## Page 43

persen.

Garru's

restraborates

Elena

Vermon

241

Hital

_42-

she

hotel.

She thinks Calvillo registered them as rela-

tives or friends of his from San Luis Postosi."

ENemo

of conversation by Charles Thomas, 12/25/65, p9-3

(IA#582.) The entry for the 10/13/66 Legat memo in

WX-7241 bore the notation, "This is what Elena claimed

963

and no one would believe her."

fwx-7241, Entry 1466,

Charles Thomas' September 30, 1969 Letter to State Depart-

ment and Legal Attache's Response

No further report on Elena"s story was generated

OF THE UNItEd StATES

until 1969 when Charles Thomas was

"selected outg

"U fliste

Foriagno

SERVICE.

bestee

ise phease-used

ed

He grace

not considered

or prenotion

It shouta 62801

At that time, he wrote a memorandum

to the Secretary of State which included a cover letter

stating,

"Since I was the Embassy Officer in Mexico

who acquired this intelligence information, I feel a re-

sponsibility for seeing it through to its final evalua-

tion." (State Department better. rem Charles Themas

iram Rogers secretary of State, July 25, 1969)

Charles Thomas' memorandum stated that. "he got no

reaction from Nathan Ferris and Winston Scott" regarding

NW 66000 Docld:32271385 Page 43

---

## Page 44

24<

43 -

966

his memorandum of December 25, 1965.

stat

tmenEze

Lotter from Charles Thomas to William Rogers

-seepetary

E Statey July 25 19g9) In addition, Thomas wrote

that the only person to speak to him about the Decem-

ber 25, 1965 memorandum, Clarence Boonstra (Deputy Phrief

Erre

Resent kennely's assassination and subsequent

triben) told him that Oswald had not been

968

in Mexico on the date given for the party. (Iric)

Ster

Lon Car Los

tram

setary

tates uly 25, 1964) Thomas noted

that even when he reiterated that Elena had not changed

her story but rather that she had now given a more de deta led

@take account, Boonstra stated that the date was wrong

and dismissed the entire affair. Tibie)

One of the Mexiço City Legat Officers, Nathan Ferris,

in reply to Thomas' letter and memorandum, asserted

that Thomas offi

¿ been advised by memoranda

that e

Thomas' Öffice had been advised by memoranda dated Decem-

ber 27, 1965 and February 2311966 that since Elena

Garro's allegations had previously been investigated

> without substantiation, no further action was being taken

concerning her recent repetition of

those allegations.

97°

00

In

NW 66000 Docld:32271385 Page 44

---

## Page 45

245

- 44-

its

their report, the Legat's Office concluded that either

the Counselor for Political Affairs did not route the

memoranda to Charles Thomas or that Thomas did not re-

976

call receiving them. (bid.

Thomas wrote that when he went to Nathan Ferris'

office to inform him that Elena had found her calendar

and had reconstructed the date of the party as late

September , Ferris replied that Elena had given the

late September date when she had originally reported

91.2

her story at the American

Embassy.

(state Department:

Latter

Thomas to Willian Rogers, Secretasy

of State J41y 351969) Thomas noted that Ferris

explained that

someone who had been at the party had

stated that there had not

been any Americans an Attendancs (973)

Themess

wrote that he had assumed that Elena could have clear-

ly been mistaken about the identity of the American

she saw there, but never doubted that she had seen

974:

some Americans.

(exia) Thomas wrote that Ferris had

suggested that it was not necessary for Thomas to pursue

the matter since he considered the Oswald case closed

915

and had heard all the rumors before. (roid.)

The side on to more me tard

that Mr. Ferris had not told, Thomas that someone who was

at the party had stated that there had not been any Amer1-

cans present.

(Pet Report, 9/39/69, p. 4, JER DoC. No.-

NW 66000 Docld:32271385 Page 45

---

## Page 46

12

244

- 45

The Legal Attache's memo asserted that Thomas had

been told that it would not be necessary for him to

pursue the matter any further since Elena's story had

977

been investigated previously without being substantiated.

(151a.) In addition, the memo stated that Thomas had

been told that Elena's story was considered a closed

issue, not that the Oswald case was closed. (Ibida) 978

House Select Committee on Assassination's Investigation

of Elena Garro's Allegations

The House Select Committee on Assassinations in-

vestigated Elena Garro's story both through file reviews

and personal interviews. The Committee requested and

reviewed the CIA's, FBI's and State Department's files,

Waten

avat lat

•, on Elena Garro de Paz, Elenita Garro de

Paz, Manuel Calvillo, Noe W. Palomares, June Cobb Sharp,

Victor Rico Galan, Eunice Odio, Sylvia Duran, Lydia

Duran, Ruben Duran, Betty Serratos, Horatio Duran, Eusebio

Azcue, and Emilio Carballido.

• Only the Elena Garro de

Paz file contained information on her allegations. Though

all the names listed above played a role in Elena Garro

de Paz: story, not one of their files included a refer-

ence to Elena Garro de Paz.

Fürthermore, the House Select Committee on Assassina-

tions requested and reviewed the Central Intelligence

NW 66000 Docld:32271385 Page 46

---

## Page 47

245

5 -

utio

Agency's LICOOKIE/1, LICHANT/ 1, LIRING/ 3,

and TICHBORN files. Once again, not one of the files

included a mention of Elena Garro's allegations. The

House Select Committee on Assassinations learned that

LICOOKIE 1, was June Cobb Sharp Who first reported to

the CIA Elena's allegationg

(Supra, p. 4. ) The Commit-

tee also learned that LICHANT/I was Manuel Calvillo

who had hidden Elena Garro and her daughter in a hotel

the day following the assassination. (Gapra., p. 13=)

He also told Elena that Silvia Duran had been arrested

before this fact had become public knowledge. (hit.

Since a

file review was inconclusive, the Com-

mittee deeidet to arranged interviews in Mexico with Ruben Duran, Horativ

Duran, Elena and Elerito Garro,

Silvia Duran, Lynn Duran, Emilio Carbillido and Betty

982

Serratos.

The Mexican Government informed the House

Select Committee on Assassinations that Elena and Elenita

bet

Garro disappeared in 1968 during the student uprisings

and have never returned to Mexico.

The officials stated

984

that Elena and her daughter might be in Spain.

(SEE

Mexi

p. 1.) The Mexican

government reported that Emilio carballido coula not be

985

found. (Iore.)

The others were interviewed between

966

June 1 and June 6, 1978. (Ibid.)

Betty Serratos, Lydia Duran, Ruben Duran and

Horatio Duran all stated that Elena was not the dancing

NW 66000 Docld:32271385 Page 47

---

## Page 48

246

-47

type and therefore did not attend any of the twist

987

parties at the Duran homes.

Document oa;

Document

OF Horatio Duran NavarT0, 6/5/78-0-25,

• When Sivlia Duran was asked

if Elena or Elenita Garro ever attended twist parties

at the Duran homes, she recalled Elena attending one

twist party at Ruben's home in 1963 When the Garros

988

returned to Mexico from France.

TiseA staff Interview

of silvia Tirade Bazar, 6/6/70,p90, 59K, Dortment

All the Durans denied that Lee Harvey Oswald

989

had attended any party at one of their homes.

(String

cites.)

The Committee next asked the Central Intelligence

Agency to arrange but interviews with LICHANI/I (Manuel

Calvillo), LICOOKIE/1 (June Cobb), atong with a list of

assets who may have had information related to Lee

990

Harvey Oswald's trip to Mexico City:

The Central Intelligence Agency declined to aid the Com-

-9,91

mittee inthis aspect of the investigation.

on Angest 7, 1978

The Commitee returned to Mexico City and attempted

to locate June Cobb Sharp and Manuel Calvillo one me 11?

ist. Vine

results

NW 66000 Docld:32271385 Page 48

---

## Page 49

247

-48-

→ The Mexican government told the Commit-

tee that June Cobb Sharp received a tourist

INDENT

permit, number 72781, on June 27, 1947 when

she entered Mexico through Nuevo Lardeo.

She asked, but was denied, permission to re-

2

present the magazine, Modern Mexico.

On

June 21, 1948, she received a courtesy per-

mit, number 25556. Furthermore, the Mexi-

can government explained that she disappeared

993

in 1954 and never returned to Mexico.

(See

procedurad Writeup Mip Mexico city.)

9r The Committee believes t

that this information is incorrect. According to Ms.

Cobb's CIA file, she worked for the agency as an asset

in Mexico from 1961 through 1966.

(CIA-

0247 7969,

) Elena also stated that

Ms. Cobb resided at her home in 1964.

T The Mexican government told the Committee

that Manuel Calvillo did not live at Cuotemoc

877-5 as the Committee had informed them.

Their The

agent-in-charge had spoken to the superintendant

at the apartments at which Lamiel Calvillo was

auch was informal. Ge

believed to reside, the superintendent who had

worked at the apartments for twenty-five years,

NW 66000 Docld:32271385 Page 49

mars

---

## Page 50

245

-47-

sard that no Manuel Calvillo had ever re-

sided there. When Committee staffers gave the

Mexican government Calvillo's pen name, the

Mexicans gave the same answers.

996

(Bee ProceduI

The Committee

Write Mexieo City Frip 2)

beliques: that there is a passialty

en that Mr. Calvillo lived at this

address

since it acquired the address from a recent CIA

997

document. (CIA Report, 1976, Montel

Calvillo file,

201=

)

The Committee believes that there is a

possibility

a u.s.

Coult ageat

requested

Mexican

sodernment

that the Mexiean government secei

ved orders from ti

tral Intelligence Ageney to refrain from aiding the Com-

998

mittee with this aspect of its work.

Up Irip 2 Mexico City IANo SEctioN VIL, E, BELOW;

(See Procedural Write-

The Committee made every attempt possible to locate

Elena.

on July ?, 1978 @Committee

telephoned

her publisher, Moratz, in Mexico City and asked about VEliNA's

whereabouts. (AGeA Staff Contact Repet, 7pppg, JrK DO-

ment o 20026) The publisher stated that Me. Carro

was living in the Hotel S.A.C.E. in Madrid, Spain:

(Hoe.)

The Committee &

telephoned the HotelVin Spain and

spoke to the manager who tola him that Ms. Garro had

moved. le

Wbnin.) fuses staff contact report, 1/7/784

IF I DO

→ On July 14, 1978 a Committee

NW 66000 Docld:32271385 Page 50

---

## Page 51

247

- 50 -

called her publisher again and was told to con-

10.2

tact the Mexican Embassy in Madrid, Spain.

fIScA Staff

Contact Report, 1411/78, JEK Document NO 9950) The

publisher stated that all Elena's payments were sent

there because she did not even trust her publisher

1003

with her address.

The Committee

called the Mexican Embassy

in Madrid, Spain and spoke to Adolfo Padilla, a Mexican

employee of the Embassy who stated that when Elena had

visited the Embassy a couple of weeks before

to pick

up a check she

Cantee financially ost. user staff

Distitute rooy

Contact

post 8431478-79Documrente

• He

stated that when he asked Elena her new address she de-

clined

to give one, stating that she would return every

1005

few weeks to pick up checks and mail. (Ibid.) The Com-

mittee gave Padilla a telephone number and a message

1006

asking Elena to telephone the Committee collect.

(Tbie.)

On September 5, 1978 Elena Garro called the Com-

21007

mittee.Staft

when the

It was

explained that the Com-

mittee wished to talk to her in person and would pay

both her daughter's and hor travel from spaint the barred states

asked why she should believe the enmier was whe

claimea to be. (SeA staff contact Report, 978 JEK.

Doe

ment No. The Cemmer asked Ms. Garro to call

back collect in the next few days when he could explain

NW 66000 Docld:32271385 Page 51

---

## Page 52

250

- 457-

to her when and where she could receive a Committee let-

ter delineating why the Committee wished to interview

1009

her. fIbid. The Committee wrote the letter and made

arrangements with the State Department for a letter to

be hand-delivered to Elena at the American Embassy in

1010

Spain.

(See

shetter alsohscAStaff contact

Report 97r Document No,

On September 7, 1978, Elena Garro called the Commit-

tee

and asked when the letter would arrive.

10/1

aporte JK Document No.

explained that the Letter could

The Committee 3

PIcK up the lItTEr

be gotten on Monday, September 11, 1978 from George

Phelan, the Counsellor for Consular Affairs at the Ameri-

1012

can Embassy. (Ibia.) Ms. Garro stated that she would

get the letter on September 11, 1978 and follow our

1013

suggestions. (birt

Ms. Garro never went to the American Embassy in

Spain to Sick the Committee's letter!"#sex start contact

Report, 9/15/78, JK Docu

) The Committee,

hoping she would pick up the letter before her flight

date, proceeded to purchase air tickets for both Elena

/01 50

and her daughter. (HSSA Staff Contact Report 12,

jFK DocumentNo

Elena did not gick the tickets at

1016

the airport. toCA

ffcontaet

9/1-50/07877K

The connittee was not eN aBleto RegAIN

contacted

NW 66000 Docld:32271385 Page 52

---

## Page 53

-

25/

52 -

WITH

by Ms. de Paz again.

charles

The Committee also investigated whether Thomas'

"selection out" was related to the Oswald case. After

interviewing his widow, Ms. Cynthia Thomas, the Committee

1017

has concluded that his dismissal was unrelated. (ASGA

staff Intermiew of cynthi

JEK

portment No

In sum, the House Select Committee on Assassinations

has not been able to confirm the evidence that would

indicate that Lee Harvey Oswald, on one night while he

was in Mexico, attended a "twist party" at the home

of Ruben Duran Navarro, the brother-in-law of Silvia

Duran. In addition, the House Select Committee on Assas-

sinations has been unable to confirm the allegation

that Lee Harvey Oswald travelled while in Mexico City

with "two beatnik-looking boys." A large part of the

Committes's Attempts to investigate these Issues hAs mit

with frustration.

D. Oscar Contreras Lartigue

On March 16, 1967, B. J. Ruyle, the American Consul

in Tampico, reported to the American Embassy that he

had spoken to a reporter whom allegedly had met Lee Har-

vey Oswald at National Autonomous University of Mexico

1018

1019.

City HUNAM) in 1963.

garm 4743570p110) stressing that he had

only a fleeting contact with Oswald,

The reported had

NW 66000 Docld:32271385 Page 53

---

## Page 54

252

57-

claimed to knownonly about Lee Harvey Oswald's desire

to travel to Cuba and the Embassy's unwillingness to

1020

grant him a visa.

(bia.) When B. J. Ruyle asked the

reporter for permission to cable the story to the Ameri

can Embassy, the reporter declined stating that he

102/

feared losing his job. (Ibic) Subsequent to the assas-

sination, the reporter had told his editor about

his

contact with Lee Harvey Oswald, who had advised him not

1082

to report it. (Ibida) The reporter granted B. J. Ruyle

permission to cable the story to the American Embassy

when Ruyle promised that it would be handled with the

1023.

strictest confidence. (Ibid.) Ruyle wrote that he

thought the reporter was genuinely concerned about his

1uaY

job. (Ivia.)

A letter from B. J. Ruyle to the State Department

dated May 11, 1967 provided additional details of the

reporter's story. (letter to wesley D. Bowles, Chief of

Mexican pelitical affatrs, office of Mexican Affairs,

Department of State from B.J. Ruyle, American Consul,

Tampico, 5/11/67; WX 7241 entry #591 P. II4, CIA #7A1)

The reporter alleged that he and some fellow students

had met Lee Harvey Oswald as they exited the Cineclub at

1675

the Escuela de Filosofia (School of Philosophy) at the

1086

National Autonomous University of Mexico. tIbid:

Oswald

NW 66000 Docld:32271385 Page 54

---

## Page 55

253

- 54-

told the group that he had gone to the National Autono-

mous University of Mexico looking for pro-Castro stu-

dents who might help him persuade the Cuban Embassy to

1027

grant him a visa. fIvie.) Oswald claimed that he was

From California and was a member of a pro-castro group

in New Orleans. (Ibid. Oswald remained with the stu-

dents the rest of that day and evening, as well as the

1029

following day. (bid. The reporter described Oswald

as a strange and introverted individual who spoke very

little Spanish. (Ibies)

The State Department forwarded

a copy of Ruyld's letter to the Central Intelligence

Agency.

'''the conttce coutd not determine whon the

State Department forwarded the letter to the erA.) on

June 14, 1967, CIA Headquarters sent the Mexico City

1032

station a copy of Ruyle's letter to Bowles. Mispatch

from the Director to Mexico Gity, 6/74/87, 19MMW 15557;

Heedquarters

WE 7241 EMEry 1616, Dr 117, eTA 1744) CIA Headquakters

considered Ruyle's report "the first piece of substantive

info about Oswald's sojourn in Mexico" since the assas-

1038.

sination. (Ibid.)

Consequently, Headquarters cabled

that though

understood the source's relictance to

become involved "the fact remains that this info cannot

•1034

continue to be withheld or concealed." (ibit.) Head-

quarters instructed the Mexico City Station to elicit

10135

the identity of the source from ruyle:: In addition,

NW 66000 Docld:32271385 Page 55

---

## Page 56

254

- 55

Headquarters asked the Mexico City Station to bear in

mind, while interviewing Ruyle's source, that Lee Harvey

1036

Oswala was a momosexual. fIbid:). The final sentence of

the dispatch;. "It is our hope that the facts obtained

through these interviews will help to confirm that

several of Garrison's allegations about involvement of

10$7

anti-Castro Cubans, the CIA, etc. are false, " (Ibia)

explained the Central Intelligence Agency's motives

for purging the story.

On June 29, 1967, the Mexico City Station cabled

Headquarters that a station officer had gone to Tampico

1038

where he had interviewed Ruyle's source, Oscar Contreras.

table from Mexico city to the Director, MAXI 1950, 6/294

The:

sable

611entry 6227897

ported that Contreras was a reported for

ElSol (a news-

paper,

The Sun) in Tampico; was circa 30 years old;

married, with three children; studied law at the National

Autonomous University of Mexico (UNAM) from 1960 to

1964; belonged to a pro-castro group at uNal; was per-

secuted by the Mexican police for this affiliation and

moved to Tampico'to escape the persecution

Mexico cIty to the Director, MEXi 1950, 6/29/67 WX- 7241,

entry #622, p. 118, 1745.)

Contreras told the Mexico City. Station official

1041

that he and four other individuals (When Contreras was

•( 1040)

NW 66000 Docld:32271385 Page 56

---

## Page 57

255

- 5

other

Four

quals who had

sherretused tonevealtheir

dange

hist fantty.) had met Oswald as they exited a

roundtable discussion held at the School of Philosophy

at UNAM. (Cable from Mexico City to Director, MEXI 1950,

6/29/67; 87 7241, entry # 622, p. 118, CIA #74S) Contre-

ras stated that Oswald had made inquires on the UNAM

campus about bro-cuban groups and had been directed to

his group. (Ibid.) Contreras reported that though the

group initially mistrusted Oswald fearing he was a "CIA

provocation," they allowed Oswald to remain with them

1044

that day and night. and part of the following day. (Ibiê.)

Contreras noted that Oswald never mentioned assassination

1045

but kept emphasizing that he had to get to Cuba. (ibid.)

In addition, Oswald had exhibited no homosexual tenden-

1046

cies while he was with the group. (tbia.)

On July 4, 1967, Headquarters cabled the Mexico

City Station that Contreras' story should be explored

to the fullest even though he might have fabricated it.

1047

Cabte from the Director to Mexico city. 1/4/67 DIR

16893 W241, merY 620, 0 119, CrA 4746) Headquarters

1048

suggested that the fBI handled the story.

(Ibia.) The

following day, July 5, 1967, the Mexico City Station

NW 66000 Docld:32271385 Page 57

---

## Page 58

25%

-57-

cabled that it preferred turning Contreras' case

1049

to the Mexican authorities and to the F.B.I. table

from Mexico City to the Director, 1/5/67, MEXI 1991;

WX 7241, Entry 627-p- 119, CIA #746.1 Headquasters

suggested that the Eh.I, handle the story. (Ibid.)

Tapattoning day, July 5r 1967, the Mexico etey sta-

tron cabled that it preferred turning Contreras' case

over to the Mexican authorities and the F.D.I. (Cable

from Mexico city to the direetor 7567 MEXT 1991;

#x 7241, Entry 627,

p. 119, CrA 4746.) The same day,

the Chief of Station informed the Legat of Contreras'

story, but asked him not to take any action without

first

-previously consulting the Mexico City Station. memo

to begat, /5/6 Troll Chief of station; wx 72X1, entry

628, P. 119, CIA + 746=

On July 10, 1967, Jeremy K. Benedum ("JKB") wrote

a memo delineating the results of a Mexican government

105!

review of Oscar Contreras' file. (Memo from JKB Te

oscar.comtreras, 7/1067-x-7241/Entry

2034, 1.

" According to the memo, a lone Oscar Contreras

appeared in the UNAM law school records, Oscar Contreras

Lartique, dob 2/14/39 in cludad victoria, Tamaulipas. 1052

(Port. The memo also reported that a newspaper article

appearing in "Excelsior" listed an Oscar Contreras as

a signer of a protest for the Bloque Estudiantil Revolu-

1057

cionario Shich had been formed mid-1961!' bian) IThe

NW 66000 Docld:32271385 Page 58

FLY

---

## Page 59

-

257

658

Ofthe group her

Jose

Holma

- Huge Castro

→ Antonio Teniro Adame,

Guerrico,Carlos ortiz Fijeda,

"Daniel

Balvez, Humberto Hiriante,

Ostar EGonzales,

Hiban Garcia, Pedto-SainCepedar Alberto

Eduardo Pascual Juan Saldana,

Martin Reyes Baissa

Vicente Lamas.Rubito-Rernandez«borado.and esus

The memo speculated that Contreras

probably

signed the protest as a front man to protect the

real

1055

leaders of the group.

(Fbid.) The Mexico City station

called the information to Headquarters the following

1056

day, June 11, 1969.

(Dispatch from Mexico City to

Director, HMMA 3249777767WX 241, ENtrY 1635, P.

121,CIA#74807

The Committee has determined

that the Central

Intelligence Agency's main interest in Osear Contreras was

"to canfirm that several of Gerrisons allegations about

involument of antia Castro Cubans, the CrA, ete, are false,

1057

After the ClA

Moxico City Station officials interdiew

with Contreras

revealed. nothing that, could be

useful to the agency, it decided to allow the FBI

interviewed the

to toll the stray though.

Nonetheless, the Agency's Mexic

Key bothes.

attaly, reviewed pertlarat

files,

reported

all the infremation to Headquarters expedito

I about the

Mexican gole

NW 66000 Docld:32271385 Page 59

possessiom

---

