# DOCID-32362549

## Page 1

JEK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER

: 104-10121-10204

RECORD SERIES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

80T01357A

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

AGENCY ORIGINATOR :

: HOWARD J. OSBORN

SUBJECT: CIA CONTACT IDENTIFICATION CREDENTIAL.

SUBJECTS : WITHHELD

DOCUMENT TYPE

: PAPER

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS

: SECRET

CURRENT STATUS

: RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

09/22/97

COMMENTS

: JFK44

: F22: 1997.09.22.18:21:05:216102

Heleased under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

65924 Date: 10-26-2021

[R]

- ITEM

IS RESTRICTED

104-10121-10204

NW 65924 Docld:32362549 Page 1

---

## Page 2

Date

MEMORANDUM FOR:

SUBJECT

MIGUEL P. COSSIO

: CIA Contact Identification Credential

1. The Director of Security has authorized issuance of this

Identification Credential to you because your official öuties will

require you to establish your identity as an employee of CIA.

2. Use of the credential will be governed by the following

provisions:

(a) The credential will be carried only when necessary

to conduct official Agency business. At all other times: if

feasible, the credential will be secured in a CIA facility.

(b) The credential will not be utilized for personal

identification purposes.

(c) The credential may be withdrawn, without notice,

upon indication of misuse.

(a) Should the credential be lost, immediate notice

will be forwarded to the Director of Central Intelligence,

Attention:

Director of security: by the most expeditious

means available; a thorough investigation will be

initiated to determine the circumstances surrounding the

loss and reported to the Director of Security.

(e) Penalties for loss of credentials will be drastic

and may include dismissal from the Agency.

(f) Credentials are considered as Registered Documents

and are subjected to periodic accountability audits.

(g) Credentials will be returned to the Director of

Security when no longer

required by the individual to whom

issuer.

3.

punitive measures.

Deviation from the preceding provisions will result in severe

FOR THE DIRECTOR OF CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE:

Hard Cobre

owards

Osborn

Director of security

NW 65924 Docld:32362549: Page 2

---

