# DOCID-32334827

## Page 1

Heleased under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

64578 Date: 11-23-2021

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/17/201

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90118-10186

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-2897-93

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

DL

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 08/21/1959

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

HARRY RAYMOND POPE

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/17/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: AT

NW 64578 Docld:32334827 Page 1

11

---

## Page 2

FD-36 (Rev. 12-13-56)

Mr. Tolson.

Mr.

Belmont:

Mi. Debeach...

Mr. MiGoiro..

Michr

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

FBI

Date:

8/21/59

PLAIN TEXT

(Type in plain text or code)

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

Mr.

& Sulliv

Tole.

Room...

Mr. Adileman_

Miss Gandy

TO:

• DIRECTOR, FBI (92-2897)

FROM

SAC, DALLAS (88-2749)

HARRY RAYMOND

POPE, aka. - FUGITIVE

IO # 3285, WF#229

TOP TEN

PEGGY ANN FRYE, aka. - FUGITIVE

UFAP - BURGLARY, ADW; HARBORING

Re Dallas airtel, 8/20/59.

on 8/19 and 20/59, information was developed that

admitted sending the above money order and of lying to agents

when previously interviewed concerning any knowledge she had of

the whereabouts of her daughter.

She stated that on 6/16/59

received a phone call from FRYE giving her instructions

about sending the money order.

She stated she sent the money

order on same date but that Western Union must have had some

difficulty as her daughter called back two or three times on

6/16/59 and 6/17/59 asking about the money order as she had

JELSEN maintained that she had no further

contact since that time with her daughter. She stated she was

tired of the whole affair and would cooperate with the FBI in the

Investigation by Bure Agents am Dallas no 16/59

ascertained that the money order was sent from Dallas

to JOYCE THOMPSON and was actually picked up on 6/17/59 by

color of her mother's hair, gray. Investigat

tion is being conducted today at Marshall of all motels and

hotels in an effort to obtain further information concerning FRYE

and

POPE.

c - Wicks,

Bureau

REC 2472-2897-93

- Oklahoma City (88-2364) (Info)

1 - Dallas

AUG

* 1959

RMB: GAS (5)

DO AU: 26 1904

Approved:

-

Sent

_ M

Per

Special Agent in Charge

NW 64578 Docld:32334827 Page 2

---

## Page 3

DI 88-2749

on 8/20/59, PCI DORIS HOWARD arrived in Dallas as

scheduled.

She has made contact with the sister of FRYE,

MARJORIE LOFTICE, and RUBY JELSEN:

She has made arrangements

to meet with JELSEN tonight for dinner and discuss of possible

contact with FRYE. JELSEN and LOFTICE have both advised the

intormant they are convinced that their phones are tapped,

biy the FBI and therefore do not desire to discuss any matters

by phone.

It should be noted that after each contact with the

informant, LOFTICE and JELSEN have called the FBI Office but

have not given full details of discussions with HOWARD. It is

believed they are making such reports based on their beliefs

that their phones

are tapped.

Investigation at Blossom, Texas, concerning father

Of FRYE, CHARLES ALLEN CLEBURN, WaS

conducted 8/17/59 without

result.

Little Rock by airtel, 8/19/59, advised that investigation

by that office based on information previously received from

Norfolk had been conducted without identification of POPE or

Phoenix by airtel 8/19/59 advised that interviews

with BILL SWIFT, PAUL CLINITE, and JOHN FLYNN had been conducted

by that office, but no pertinent information developed.

Dallas is continuing coverage of LOFTICE, FRYE, and

the informant throughout today and any subsequent necessary

days in the future in an effort to determine whereabouts of

FRYE and/or POPE.

POPE IS HEAVILY ARMED AND SHOULD BE CONSIDERED

EXTREMELY DANGEROUS.

PERVE IS ARMED WITH A : 32 CALIBER

AUTOMATIC,

HAS ASSAULTED POLICE OFFICERS IN THE PAST AND SHOULD

BE CONSIDERED EXTREMELY DANGEROUS:

LYNUM

-2 -

NW 64578 Docld:32334827 Page 3

---

