# DOCID-32373867

## Page 1

Date: 03/01/05

JEK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER

:104-10315-10029

RECORD SERIES: JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

LA DIV WORK FILE

DOCUMENT INEORMATION

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM

TO

TITLE

DATE

PAGES

GOMEZ. DC, WH DIVISION

THE RECORD

MEMO: CUBAN

01/15/1960

2

REVOLUTIONARY ACTIVITY IN FLORIDA

SUBJECTS

ANTICASTRO PLOT

WHITTEL, REED

DOCUMENT TYPE PAPER

CLASSIFICATION : SECRET

RESTRICPIONS : 1A

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 01/28/99

COMMENTS: JFK-WF05 : F3: 1999.01.28.10:57:35:293120

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination

Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note)

Carat:M 65990 Date: 11-00-2021

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10315-10029

NW 65990 Docld:32373867 Page 1

---

## Page 2

'Best available image

SECRET

15 January 1950

MEMORARDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBST) Cuben Revolutionary Activity In Floride

On the evening of 4 January Mr. Rollie Atvood, Director o1

ICA for Latin Anerice, telephoned me at my home and toid ne that h

had receited a telephone call, fron a lit, Read Whittel, a proatnent

Flostds rancher und former «tudent of his, telling Atwood that be

vas in touch vith certata people interested in overthrowing the Ceatro

cont and seaking Atwoodle advice,

Ath Are Robert

lifted Pruft Con

295402

Guerarts, then take over the Cubes Goverment sad place at ite bead

cia Pranetato CANSAS; thet Witttel wanted to kaow whether ha aboula

bacon imalved in thie os not. Atrood called ne to givo his

futdass, I taid Atrood the beat I could do vee to put Relehhandt,

our fleal representativa, in touch with thittel, and lave Baleblurat

deterulne what Cuben, group these people very commerted with, and

then us voulA proceed 1

2. I thin telephoned lie. Reynolde, who celled Ratchherdt, aod

arrangesente were usde for Reichhurdt to nest Inittel, in Orlando,

Mostds, the following dry. As a result of this neting vith Whit-

tel, Reichherdt found out that the Cuban group these people vera

comested with to the Auba Portundo Callere ESOup, Patchhandt

osuttoned tittel as to the danger of getting involved in such revo-

Inttonery sorenonts.

3- On 6 Janussy I telephoned Atrood and told hia that in our

ogindon the Mines Portuondo essup ma not one looked upon with sayers

hovever, it vas not up to sa to tall, whittel that this group kaa

looked upon with diatayas but that Atwood shonld get hie guidanse

Pron IS. 1811 or M3, Embottom in Brete. La the mmention, I seda

Jolta 8121 mara of the fort

nd also

during which time they would bave U, 8. adrices that they woold baye

SECRET

NW 65990 Docld:32373867 Page 2

---

## Page 3

r**

the cooperetion of Generaliasino Trujillo end also of the Bonozas)

that in order to accomplish thie, the interosted parties would seke a

o tarano y a dovour be apart to rearm reoromb1e reto

Atwood wished as to advise his as to vhat he should tell, Wbittel.

I told Atwood that as fer as I vas conserned, I could not tell him

to give Whittle any further advice then that which Reichhardt had

already given him that I knew Gillaspla to be a bona fide Anerican

businessen who vas in touch with un and with the Bureau, and that

Atvood should contact John Ill and get instructions from bin.

Rutolph B. Gomes

DOXE

Diatribution:

Reynolds

Dahlgren

750/ma

peaner

NW 65990 Docld:32373867 Page 3

---

