# DOCID-32377731

## Page 1

104-10213-10083

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection act ol

1992 [44 USC 2107 Note]. Case#:NW

65990 Date: 10-29-2021

• UNITED STATES COVÉ iMENT

Memorandun.

: Chicf, SRS

Thru : DC/SRS and C/FIOB/SRS

FROM : M. D. Stevens

SUBJECT: CAIN, Richard S.

$272 141

DATF: 9 October 1967

7.3000850

Reference is made to the attached 5 June 1967 DCS memo-

randum on Subject, which in turn made reference to previous DCS

I memoranda on him on 24 and 25 May 1967 and to an Office of Security

memorandum dated 29 May 1967.

The 5 June 1967 memorandum

enclosed copies of several 1963/1964 documents from the Chicago

Field Office's file on CAIN, which ADC/PSD forwarded to SRS with

the comment that "It appears DCS is cleaning out their files re Lee

Haryey OSWALD, et al."

2. Subject, it is obvious, had been a source of information

i regarding an alleged discussion of the assassination of President

Kennedy at a secret meeting of the Fair Play for Cuba Committee

held in Chicago in February 1963 under the direction of Richard

CRILEY (#346 116).

He also was the source of information regarding

the alleged attempted recruitment into the Communist Party of young

Cubans in the Chicago area by one Guillermo ESCOBAR, who accord-

¡ing to the Chicago office was "one of Horace SPEED's (SAS) leads

obtained from Ralph PEREZ." (Presumably Ralph PEREZ, 444260)

SPEED is Horace SPEED II, #199499. The documents also indicated

that in February 1964 CAIN was the subject of a conversation initiated

by Eldon S. COHEN, #38557 o/c, with a representative of the DCS

Chicago office who believed his purpose was to learn whether or not

CAIN was in fact on a two-month's sick leave from the COOK County

Sheriff's office, as he was said to be, or was on a political under

cover assignment which CCHEN inferred involved tapping the tele-

phones of gubernatorial candidate Charles H. PERCY and other

political figures.

SECRET-

Exits is

82895563)

15821

NW 65990- -Docld:32377731 Page 1

---

## Page 2

104-10213-10083

3. During review of CAIN's Security file, I noted a message

regarding tim irom Mexico City, on 25 April 1962, wrich mentioned

a "'Villard ANDREIVS, reputable American business.nan in Mexico,"

a CIA representative in Mexico to whom ANDREWS had commented that

CAIN claims to have been with OSS during I. W. Il (Acopy of this memo-

randum is attached). In anster to this message nich requested traces

ол CAIN, Headquarters, in furnishing limited information obtained garc-

ing him, advised that neither his claimed employment by OSS, ior a-laiza

he made to have worked with Task Force 1, could be substantiated.

The

Station was advised that he did have (or had had) a legitimate detective

laboratory in Chicago.

5. The first time CAIN came to the attention of the Security Office

tras when the Mexico Station requested traces on him. Their request

stemmed from an unannounced visit he made to the Station, during which

he stated that he had an investigative agency in Mesico with branches in

Chicago and Los Angeles. He had also stated that his agency in Mexico

was for the purpose of training Mexican Government agenis in police

methods, in investigative techniques, and in the use of the lie detector;

and had added that he was investigating Communism in a certain unnamed

Central American country.

6. In June 1962, the Mexico Station advised that CAIN was being

deported by the Mexican Ministry (of) Gobernacion for these violations:

a. Carrying a loaded revolver and brass imickles

b. Impersonating a Mexican Coveraneni official

(He had identification as an investigator for the

Mexican Treasury Office. )

Violating his tourist permit by working at his

detective office and at the Mexican Treasury

SECTE

NW 65990 Docld:32377731 Page 2

---

## Page 3

104-10213-10083

Subject was subsequently of interest to the DCS in Sepiember

1963 when an ad hoc clearance was requested to permit his being asked

to respond to general requirements regarding his knowledge of certain

Cuban refugees and their potential for foreign positive intelligence.

On

10 September 1963, the DCS was sent a memorandum which furnished

much of the above information on CAIN.

8. On 22 May 1967, the Director of Security indicated that he

had received information from the FBI which ties Subject to the Malia

in Chicago; and he directed that the DCS be contacted for information

las to whether or not they ever established contact with him and, if so,

for what purpose. The DCS was also to be advised that, if they were

in contact with him, it was suggested that they break it of. On 25

May 1967, the DCS advised that there had been no contact with CAIN

since 1963, and furnished copies of eight reports for which Subject had

been the source of information. These had to do with anti-Castro Guban

activities, procurement of arms, etc.

9. On 29 May 1967, Security advised the DCS that there is a

current FBI investigative interest in Subject and recommended that

there be no further contact with hiz at this time.

10. The 1 September 1967 copy of Life magazine contains an

article titled "Exazen Empire of Organized Crime," in yhich it is

stated that Sam GIANCANA, Head of the Chicago Coga Nostra, is "still

running things by remote control from a hide-out in México. .. where

ziri

he poses as fiscardo SCALZETTI: The real SCALZETTI, GIANCANA'S

erst while chauffeur and courier, is more familiar to Chicagoans as

Richard CAIN, a well known former Chicago policeman and more recently

a private investigator."

NW 65990 Docld:32377731 Page 3

---

## Page 4

104-10213-10083

..

15. There is attached a copy of the above referred to September

articles in Life magazine, in one of which CAIN is described as the erst-

while chauffeur and courier of Sam GLANCANA. The second of these

articles makes reference to alleged friendly contacts of Jima GARRISON,

of the OSWALD Case, with henchmen of the Cosa Nostra in the Louisiana

• asea.

Attachments: articles

MDS/cer

NW 65990 Docld:32377731 Page 4

---

