# DOCID-32328748

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

6/17/201

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90079-10006

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 62-9-453

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

FBI

NO

HQ

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

66000 Date: 11-03-2021

DATE: 06/28/1960

PAGES: 3

SUBJECTS :

JOSEPH PORETTI

DISSEMIONATION TO DEPARTMENT OF INFORMATION ON

RACKETEERS CR

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 11/05/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: MEMO

V9.1

NW 66000 Docld:32328748 Page 1

---

## Page 2

• OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10 .. .

UNITED STATES

GC

,RNMENT

Memorandum

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE:

6/28/60

SAC, NEW ORLEANS (92-257)

SUBJECT:

DISSEMINATION TO DEPARTMENT

OF INFORMATION ON RACKETEERS

CRIMINAL INTELLIGENCE PROGRAM - GENeRAL

OoP HoodLuMS

ReBulet to Albany 6/14/60 and Buairtel to Albany

6/22/60.

Following receipt in this office of Bulet to

Albany 5/29/59, concerning "Requests for Information From

FBI Files, Offices of U. S. Attorneys, Top Hoodlum Program";

this office did not receive requests from the USA in New

Opleans, the USA in Jackson, Mississippi, or the USA in

Shreveport, Louisiana, for memoranda concerning background

information on top hoodlums in the New Orleans area.

Consequently, upon receipt of the Bureau's 6/14/60

letter, it was necessary to prepare memoranda concerning

topch memoranda dos attached and JOSEPH ALBERT POREETO,

The confidential sources referred to in these

memoranda are set out as follows:

Confidential Source 1 - RAYMOND L. ROLLING, a

PCI of the New Orleans Office, who formerly operated

handbook in Jefferson Parish and Is well acquainted with

the gambling element in that area.

Confidential Source 2 - ALBERT J. PILSBURY, a

former criminal informant of the New Orleans Office who is

an accomplished professional gambler, well acquainted

among the gambling element in Jefferso

Parish.

62-4

453

2

- Bureau (Enc. 8)

New Orleans

15 JUL

1950

10g

Wilky,

7/13/60

FGB :wfb

(4)

TLE:

4

so retired n.

A G;

sent

sitting

for

to

2

NW 66000 Docld:32328748 Page 2

---

## Page 3

NO 92-257

Confidential Source 3 - PAT GILLAN, a gambler

presently operating in Jefferson Parish, Louisiana.

Confidential Source 4 - PHILIP FRANK KASTEL, former

associate with CARLOS MARCELLO and FRANK COSTELLO in operation

of the Beverly Country Club. KASTEL presently is managing

the Beverly Country Club property, which is open on a

seasonal basis in

Jefferson Parish.

Confidential source 5 - BEN J. SHEAR, a former

PCI,

presently operating an agency selling ice making

machines to bars, night clubs and restaurants in New

Orleans.

SHEAR is a long time acquaintance of CARLOS

MARCELLO and formerly operated a number of pinball and

slot machines in New Orleans and Jefferson Parish.

-

2-

NW 66000 Docld:32326748

Page 3

---

