# DOCID-32176842

## Page 1

Date: 07/27/94

Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : FBI

RECORD NUMBER

.: 124-10187-10136

RECORDS SERIES :

BS

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note]. Case#:NW

E5994 Date: 11-01-2021

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 66-4117-1 THRU 43

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR

FROM :

TO :

TITLE

DATE : 00/00/00

PAGES : 0

SUBJECTS :

NAR

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION

: U

RESTRICTIONS: NOT ASSASSINATION

CURRENT STATUS: P

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 07/27/94

OPENING CRITERIA :

INDEFINITE

RELATED

COMMENTS :

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NW 65994 Docld:32176042 Page 1

---

## Page 2

Date: August 2, 2021

From: National Archives and Records Administration

Subject: Reconstructed FBI File BS 66-4117, Serials 1-43

To: The File

This memorandum briefly summarizes the status of missing original Federal Bureau of

Investigation (FBI) case files or portions of case files in the President John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection (JFK Collection) and documents the National Archives and

Records Administration's (NARA) efforts to reconstruct these records, where possible, from

duplicate copies of documents located in other FBI files.

As the JFK Collection was first compiled and reviewed in the 1990s, the Assassination Records

Review Board and the FBI designated some records as "not believed relevant" (NBR) or "not

assassination related" (NAR). The FBI retained custody of the NBR/NAR records and

postponed their transfer to NARA until a later date. Every document or group of documents

("serials"), however, received an indexed Record Identification Form (RIF) and FBI inventory

sheet for insertion into the JFK Collection.

Several years prior to the 2017 re-review and transfer of the NBR/NAR material to the National

Archives, the FBI destroyed a few files with NAR designations according to an authorized

records disposition schedule in effect at the time.

This compilation represents NARA's efforts to reconstruct the original file or portions of the file,

as completely as possible, with duplicate copies of documents located in the FBI field office and

headquarters files within the JFK Collection. Each reconstructed file or compilation contains a

Record Identification Form, an explanatory cover memo, existing administrative documents

avallable within the JFK Collection, and copies of identified duplicate documents. The table

below summarizes the status of FBI file BS 66-4117, Serials 1 through 43.

RIF Number

FBI File

Number

List of Serials

From Inventory

Sheet

List of Identified

Serials at NARA

Reconstructed

Status (None,

Partial,

Complete)

124-10187-10136

BS 66-4117

1-43

1-3, 5, 7, 9-24,

28-30, 32, 39-43

Partial

NW 65994 Docld:32176842 Page 2

---

## Page 3

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTICATION

POSTPONEMENT INFORKATION SHEET (JFK MATERIALS)

2/ page(s) withheld entirely at this location in the file.

One or more of the following

statements, where indicated,

explain this deletion (these deletions) •

Deletions were made pursuant to the postponement

rationale indicated below with no segregable material

available for disclosure.

All references relate to

Section

6 of the "president John F. Kennedy Assassination

Records

Collection Act of 1992."

[] Subsection 1A (intelligence agent's identity)

[]

Subsection 1B (intelligence source or method)

Subsection 1C

(other matter relating to military

defense, intelligence operations or

the conduct of foreign relations)

[] subsection 2

(living person who provided

confidential information)

[1 Subsection 3

[] Subsection 4

(unwarranted invasion of privacy)

(cooperating individual or foreign

government, currently requiring

protection)

[] Subsection 5

(security or protective procedure,

currently or expected to be utilized)

Information pertained to a matter unrelated to the JFK

Assassination investigation.

[] For your information:

[ ]

The following number is to be used for reference

regarding this page (these pages) :

66-4117-1 Thru 13

XXXXXXXXXX

XXXXXXXXXX

XXXXXXXXXX

xxxxxxxxxx

xx0000xxxxx

XXXXXXXXXXOX

NW 65994 Docld:32176042 Page 3

---

## Page 4

NW 65994

locld:32176842

Page

4

File #:.

BS

Serial

Number

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

Document

Date

03/24/75

03/25/75

05/02/75

05/05/75

05/20/75

05/20/75 MEMO

05/28/75

MEMO

06/13/75

MEMO

06/18/75

TT

06/18/75

TT

06/20/75

07/24/75

TT

09/04/75

TT

09/03/75 TT.

09/04/75

TT

09/05/75

TT

Page:

66-4117

Document

Type

Document

From

TT

TT

TT

MEMO

HQ

BS

HQ

NEWPHER

HQ

JOHNSON

HQ .

BATES

HQ

HQ

BS

HQ

HQ

BS

B$

Document

TO

ALL SACS

HQ

ALL SACS

ALL EMPLOY

ALL SACS

ALL EMPLOY

ALL EMPLOY

JOHNSON

HQ

ALL SACS

BS

HQ

HQ

3rd

Agy

JFK Inventory Sheet

(Committees

Files)

section #: _1

Other

Direct

Dupes

ACTUAL PERT.

Rev.

Rel.

Re:

CHURCH COMM.

With- FBI Ref Duplicate

held 3rd Agy Location

Postponements

NAR

NAR

NAR

NAR

NAR

NAR

NAR

NAR

NAR

NAR

NAR

NAR

NAR

NAR

NAR

NAR

---

## Page 5

NW 65994

Docld:32176842

Serial

Number

18

19

20

21

24

25

26

29

31

Document

Date

Document

Type

09/05/75

TT

09/08/75

TT

09/17/75

TT

09/18/75

TT

09/18/75

TT

09/23/75

TT

09/24/75

TT

09/26/75 TT:

09/29/75 MEMO

10/10/75

MEMO

11/17/75

SS

11/17/75

11/18/75 TT

11/20/75

NEWS ARTIC NY

11/21/75

RS

HQ

12/10/75 TT

12/12/75

NEWS ARTIC BS

12/16/75

NEWS ARTIC

BS

Document

From

HQ

BS

AX

BS

NY

BS

HQ

BATES

BATES

34

Page: 2

Document

To

HQ

AX

на

HQ

ALL SACS

ALL AGENTS

ALL EMPLOY

NY

HQ

BS

ALL SACS

Other

Direct

Dupes

With- FBI Ref

Duplicate

held 3rd Agy Location

ACTUAL PERT.

14

12

Postponements

NAR

NAR

NAR

NAR

NAR

NAR :

NAR

NAR

NAR

NAR

NAR

NAR

NAR

NAR

NAR

NAR

NAR

NAR

---

## Page 6

NW 65994

Docld:32176842

Serial

Number

36

37

38

39

40

41

42

BS

HQ.

HQ

BS

PALMER

HQ

• ALL SACS

ALL SUPERV

ALL SACS

45

46

47

48

49

50

51

Page:

Document

Date

Document

Type

12/16/75

NEWS ARTIC

01/05/75

NEWS ARTIC

12/31/75

NEWS ARTIC

01/05/76

LET

01/08/76

TT

02/23/76

TT

03/02/75

03/02/76

AT

03/18/76

RS

04/09/76

MEMO

04/10/76

TT

06/01/76

06/02/76

MEMO

08/31/76

TT

09/06/76

TT

09/22/76

STATEMENT

10/19/76 AT

Document

From

BS

BS

BS

THIRD PART

BS

BS

HQ

BS

BS

HQ

BATES

BS

HQ

BATES

на

BS

CHURCH COM

HQ

AL

Document

To

3rd

Agy

Other

Direct

Dupes

ACTUAL PERT.

Rev.

Rel.

with-

FBI Ref

held

3rd Agy

Duplicate

Location

Postponements

NAR

NAR

NAR

NAR

NAR

NAR

NAR

NAR

NAR

NONE

NONE

NAR

NAR

NAR

NAR

NAR

NAR

---

## Page 7

NW 65994 Docld:32176842 Page 7

Grand Totals....

End of Report....

90

46

143

---

## Page 8

ICODE

TELETYPE

NITEL

3-24-75

TO ALL SACS

FROM DIRECTOR IBI

SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

SENATOR FRANK CHURCH, CHAIRMAN OF THE SENATE SELECT

COMVITTEE TO STUDY GOVERNMENTAL OPERATIONS WITH RESPECT TO

INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES HAS MADE AN INITIAL REQUEST FOR INFORMA-

TION FROM THE FBI. AMONG THE ITEMS REQUESTED IS A BREARDOWN

OF FIELD AGENT PERSONNEL ASSIGNED TO INTERNAL SECURITY AND

COUNTERINTELLIGENCE MATTERS.

ACCORDINGLY, WITHIN FOUR EIGHT HOURS EACH SAC SHUULU

SUTEL TO FBEQ, ATTENTION: BUDGET AND ACCOUNTING SECTION,

SETTING FORTE SEPARATELY THE NUMBER OF SACS, ASACS, SUPERVISORS

-

AND AGENTS ASSIGNED TO INTERNAL SECURITY AND COUNTERINTELLI-

GENCE MATTERS. PERCENTAGES OF AN AGENT'S TIME, WHEN NOT

ASSIGNED FULI-TIME TO THESE ACTIVITIES, SHOULD BE USED IF APPRO-

PRIATE, PARTICULARLY IN THE SUPERVISORY CATEGORIES. THIS

INFORMATION SHOULD BE BROKEN DOWN SEPARATELY BETWEEN INTERNAI.

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

mOR-l6

NW 65994 Docld 32176842-Page 8

---

## Page 9

*%

RE: SENATE SELBOT COMMATTIE CN INTELLIGENCE AC. TANTES

SECURITY AND COUNTERNTÉLLIGENCE. TOUHEISOÓISÍ SEOUIS

BE LINITED TO AGINT PERSONNEL ONLY.

•NW 65994 Docld:32176842 Page 9

---

## Page 10

N8017

16:58

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGAN O

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

BS CODE

MAR 2 5 1975

PM NITEL MARCH 25, 1975 MCC

TO DIRECTOR

FROM BOSIÓN

(6682)

Buchant

6Ü5t

ATIN/ BUDGET AND ACCOUNTING SECTION

SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

REBUNITEL 3/24/75.

BOSION HAS TWO SUPERVISORS AND IWENTY-ONE AGENTS, ALL

ASSIGNED FULL TIME, TO INTERNAL SECURITY MATTERS. IN ADDITION,

IWELVE RESIDENT AGENTS ARE WORKING THE EQUIVALENT OF THREE

AND ONE-HALF AGENTS FULL TIME TO INTERNAL SECURITY MATTERS.

BOSTON HAS ONE SUPERVISOR AND TEN AGENTS ASSIGNED

COUNTERINTELLIGENCE MATTERS FULL TIME. IN ADDITION, ELEVEN

RESIDENT AGENTS ARE WORKING THE EQUIVALENT OF ONE AND

ONE-HALF AGENTS FULL TIME ON COUNTERINTELLIGENCE MATTERS.

BUREAU SHOULD NOTE THAT THE SAME RESIDENT AGENTS, WITH

ONE EXCEPTION, WHO ARE ASSIGNED INTERNAL SECURITY

MATTERS, ARE ALSO ASSIGNED COUNIERINTELLIGENCE

MATTERS.

END

AssUc. Dir.

Dep.-1.D.-Adm.

Dep.-A.D.-Inv.

dest. Dir.:

Admin.

Cu. 7. Dust.

Ext.

51l:6: com.

Gen. I."..

_ Ident.

Inspost.n -

Intell.

Labored iy

Plen.

& Eval. -

Spec.

InY. -

Iraining -

Legal Coul. -

Telephone Rm.

Director Sec'y

HOrIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

jOin: 2-17-01

BY SALALM-STE

116385.58

NW 55118 DocId: 32989628

*NW 65994 Docld:32176842 Page 10

Page

287

---

## Page 11

TO SACS ALL OFFICES

1 - Mr. T.J. Jenkins

5/2/75

1 - Mr. J. B. Adams

1 - Each Assistant Director

FROM DIRECIOR FBI (62-116395)

SENSTUDY 75

• 1 - Mr. W. 0. Gregar

PERSONAL ATTENTION

CAPTIONED MATTER PERTAINS TO BUREAU'S HANDLING OF REQUESTS

FROM SENATE AND HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEES TO STUDY COVERNMENTAL

OPERATIONS WITH RESPECT TO INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES. IN

ANGIENED

1119

HORE:

UMaz

CODE

TELETYPE

NITEL

CONNECTION WITH WORK OF THESE COMMITTEES, STAFT MEMBERS MAY SEEK

TO

INTERVIEW CURRENT AND FORMER FBI EMPLOYEES.

RECENTLY, THE SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE (SSG) STAFF HAS

INTERVIEVED SEVERAL FORMER EMPLOYEES AND IT IS ANTICIPATED

THAT MANY MORE SUCH PERSONNEL WILL, BE CONTACTED."

THE FBI HAS PLEDGED FULL COOPERATION WITH THE. COMMITTEE

AND HE WISH TO ASSISI AND FACILITATE ANY INVESTIGATIONS: UNDER-

TAKEN BY THE COMMITTEE WITH RESPECT TO THE FBI, HOWEVER, WE

DO HAVE AN OBLIGATION TO INSURE THAT SENSITIVE SOURCES AND

Assoc. Dir. -a

Dep. AD Adm. -

ETHODS AND DIGOING SENSITE WESTICA CONS ARE FULLY 93

Dep. AD Iny. -

REC-16

Asst, Dir.:

Admin. a

(18-7

Comp. Syst.

8.791

SEE NOTESPACHY THTO1975

Ext. Affoirs

Files & Com.

Gen. Inv.

Ident.

FEDERAL BUREAU OF. INVESTIGATION

•1'9

Inspection

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

Intell.

Laboratory

Plan. & Eval. -

MAY O 2 1975

Spoc. Inv..

Training

Legol Coun. _*

Telephone Rm. an

Diractor Sec'y -m

• ROOMI

FREEL

TELETYPE UNIT

JUN 11 1975

NW 65994-Docld:32176842 Page 11-

G70 951-346

UNRECORDED COPY FILED IN

---

## Page 12

TELETYPE TO ALL OF

RE:: SENSTUDY 75

62-116395

CES

PROTECTED. SHOULD ANY FORMER EMPLOYEE CONTACI YOUR OFFICE AND

HAVE ANY QUESTION REGARDING HIS OBLIGATION NOT TO DIVULGE INFOR-

MATION OBTAINED BY VIRTUE OF HIS PAST FBI EMPLOYMENT, HE SHOULD

BE INSTRUCTED TO CONTACT LEGAL COUNSEL, FBIHO, BY COLLECT CALL.

YOUR CONVERSATIONS WITH FORMER EMPLOYEES MUST BE IN KEEPING WITH

OUR PIEDGE. IT IS BELIEVED SUCH A PROCEDURE HOULD INSURE PROPER

PROTECTION AND ALSO FACILITATE THE WORK OF THE SSC.

THE ABOVE PROCEDURE ALSO APPILES 10 CURRENT EMPLOYEES :

OF YOUR OFFICE. HOWEVER, CONTACT WITH THE LEGAL COUNSEL SHOULD.

BE HANDLED THROUGH THE SAC.

NOTE:

Teletype prepared for all offices to alert SACs to

the possibility former employees may contact their offices seeking

guidance.

The Office of Legal Counsel in response to requests from

former employees will utilize the briefing paper prepared by the

Intelligence Community Staff of the Director of Central

Intelligence and concurred in by Assistant Attorney General

Antonino Scalia.

- 2=

NW 65994- Docld:32176842-Page 12---

---

## Page 13

1R036 WA CODE

4:IBPM NITEL 5-20-75 PAW

IO ALL SACS

FROM DIRECTOR

(62-116395)

FERSONAL DETENTION

SEUSTUDY - 75-

REBUTEL MAY 2, 1975-

IN CONCECIION WITH WORK OF THE SCRATE AND HOUSE SELECT

COMMITTEES, IIS REPRESENIAIIVES JAY CONTACT YOUR OFFICE FOR

INFORMATION.

IN ONE RECENT INSIANCE, A REFRESENTAIIVE OF THE SENATE

SLICT CORMITTEE TELEPHONICALLY INQUIRED AS TO IDENTITY OF SAC

• IN A PARTICULAR OFFICE DURING 1970.

IN HANDLIRG SUCH INQUIRIES INSURE ESTABLISHING BONA FIDES

OF REPRESENTAIIVE BY SHOW OF CREDENTIALS ON PERSONAL CONTACT OR,

IF TELEPHONIC CONTACT, BY TELEPHONICG BACK TO COMMITTEE.

UILESS IUFORVATION IS OF A PUBLIC NATURE, AS IN THE INSTANGE

CITED ABOVE, OBTAIN FBIMO CLEARANCE PRIOR TO SUPPLYING ANY

INFORMATION FBIHO HUST BE EXPEDITIOUSLY ADVISED OF ALL

IUFORMATION FURNISHED.

62-2854-5

MAY 2 ^ 1975

NW 65994 • Docld:32176842-Page 13

---

## Page 14

OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR

1-75

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20535

May 28, 1975

MEMORANDUM TO ALL EMPLOYEES

RE: INTERVIEWS OF FBI EMPLOYEES

All employees are advised that Congress is conducting

an inquiry into activities of the Federal Bureau of Investigation.

Congressional staff members are conducting interviews of former

and current FBI employees. This Bureau has pledged its cooperation

with the Congress.

You are reminded of the FBI Employment Agreement

(copy attached) with which you agreed to comply during your employment

in the FBI and following termination of such employment.

Also, you are reminded of Title 28, Code of Federal

Regulations, Section 16.22 (copy attached), which reads as follows:

"No employee or former employee of the Department of

Justice shall, in response to a demand of a court or other authority,

produce any material contained in the files of the Department or disclose

any information relating to material contained in the files of the Department,

or disclose any information or produce any material acquired as part of

the performance of his official duties or because of his official status

without prior approval of the appropriate Department official or the

Attorney General in accordance with Section 16. 24."

Also, you are reminded of Department of Justice Order

Number 116-56, dated May 15, 1956, (copy attached) which, among

other things, requires an employee upon the completion of his testimony

to prepare a memorandum outlining his testimony.

Our cooperative efforts, of course, must be consistent

with the above cited authority. Therefore, if you are contacted for

purpose of interview or testimony you are to request approval as

required by the Employment Agreement and await authorization before

furnishing information, testimony, or record material.

62-2376-22

Enclosures (3)

SEARCHED.

SERIALIZED

OS FILER

Clarence to dUN 1& 1975

NT 85994-Decid:32175842-Page-14

---

## Page 15

FD-291 (Rev. 11-1-73)

EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT

As consideration for employment in the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), United

States Department of Justice, and as a condition for continued employment, I hereby declare

that I intend to be governed by and I will comply with the following provisions:

(1) That I am hereby advised and I understand that Federal law such as

Title 18, United States Code, Sections 793, 794, and 798; Order of the

President of the United States (Executive Order 11652); and regulations

issued by the Attorney General of the United States (28 Code of Federal

Regulations, Sections 16.21 through 16.26) prohibit loss, misuse, or un-

authorized disclosure or production of national security information, other

classified information and other nonclassified information in the files of

the FBI;

(2) I understand that unauthorized disclosure of information in the files

of the FBI or information I may acquire as an employee of the FBI could

result in impairment of national security, place human life in jeopardy, or

result in the denial of due process to a person or persons who are subjects

of an FBI investigation, or prevent the FBI from effectively discharging its

responsibilities.

I understand the need for this secrecy agreement; there-

fore, as consideration for employment I agree that I will never divulge,

publish, or reveal either by word or conduct, or by other means disclose to

any unauthorized recipient without official written authorization by the

Director of the FBI or his delegate, any information from the investigatory

files of the FBI or any information relating to material contained in the files,

or disclose any information or produce any material acquired as a part of the

performance of my official duties or because of my official status. The burden

is on me to determine, prior to disclosure, whether information may be disclosed

and in this regard I agree to request approval of the Director of the FBI in each

such instance by presenting the full text of my proposed disclosure in writing to

the Director of the FBI at least thirty (30) days prior to disclosure. I understand

that this agreement is not intended to apply to information which has been placed

in the public domain or to prevent me from writing or speaking about the FBI but

it is intended to prevent disclosure of information where disclosure would be

contrary to law, regulation or public policy. I agree the Director of the FBI is

in a better position than I to make that determination;

(3) I agree that all information acquired by me in connection with my official

duties with the FBI and all official material to which I have access remains

the property of the United States of America, and I will surrender upon demand

by the Director of the FBI or his delegate, or upon separation from the FBI, any

material relating to such information or property in my possession;

(4) That I understand unauthorized disclosure may be a violation of Federal

law and prosecuted as a criminal offense and in addition to this agreement may

be enforced by means of an injunction or other civil remedy.

I accept the above provisions as conditions for my employment and continued employment

in the FBI. I agree to comply with these provisions both during my employment in the FBI and

following termination of such employment.

(Signature)

(Type or print name)

Witnessed and accepted in behalf of the Director, FBI, on

, 19

NW. 65994-Docld:32176842-Page-15 -

_, by -

(Signature)

---

## Page 16

Offire of the Attorey General

Washington, П. 0. 20530

Tanuary 18, 1973

ORDER N0.501-73

RULES AND REGULATIONS

Title 28- JUDICIAL

ADMINISTRATION

Chapter I-Department of Justice

(Order 501-73]

PART 16—PRODUCTION OR DISCLO-

SURE OF MATERIAL OR INFORMA-

TION

Subpart B-Production or Disclosure

in Response to Subpenas or De-

mands of Courts or Other Authori

ties

This order delegates to certain De-

partment of Justice officials the author-

ity to approve the production or dis-

closure of material or information

con-

tained in Department files, or informa-

tion or material acquired

by a

person

while employed. by the Department.

It

applies where a subpena, order or other

demand of a court or

other authority,

such as an administrative agency, is is-

sued for the production or disclosure of

such information.

By virtue of the authority vested in me

by 28 U.S.C. 509, 510, and 5 U.S.C. 301,

Subpart B of Part 16 of Chapter I of

Title 28, Code of Federal Regulations, is

revised,

and its provisions renumbered,

to read as follows:

Subpart B- Production or Disclosure in Responso

10 Subpenas or Demands of Courls or Other

Authorities

10.21 Purpose and scope.

16.22 Production

disclosure

unless approved by appropriate De-

partment offcial.

16.23 Procedure in the event of a demand

for production or disclosure.

16.24 Final

action by the approprinte De-

partment ofcial or

the Attorney

6.25 Procedure where & Department decl-

sion concerning & demand

made prior to

to the demand is required.

8.28

Procedure in the event of an adverse

ruling.

AUTHORITE: 28 U.S.C. 509, 510 and 5 U.S.C.

101.

iubpart B-Production or Disclosure

in Response to Subpenas or De-

mands of Courts or Other Authori-

§ 16.21 Purpose and scope.

(a) This subpart sets forth the pro-

cedures to be followed when a subpeng,

arder, or other demand (herelnafter re-

ierred to as &

"demand") of a court or

NW 65994-Doeld:32176842- Page 16

-

other authority is issued for the produc-

tion or disclosure of (1)

any material

contained in the files of the Department,

(2) any information relating to materia!

contained in the files of the Department,

or

(3)

any information

or material

acquired by any person while such per-

son was an employee of the Department

as a part of the performance of hils of-

ficial duties or because of his official

status.

(b)

For purposes of this subpart, the

term "employee of the Department" in-

cludes all officers and employees of the

United States appointed by, or subject

to the supervision, jurisdiction, or control

of, the Attorney General of the United

States, including

U.S, attorneys,

U.S.

marshals, and members of the staffs of

those officials.

§ 16.22: Production or disclosure prohib-

ited unless approved by approprise

Department official.

No employee or former employee of the

Department of Justice shall, in response

to & demand of a court or other

all-

thority, produce any material contained

in the files of the Department or disclose

any information relating to material con-

tained in the files of the Department, or

disclose any information or produce any

material acquired

as part. of the per-

formance of his official duties or because

of his official status without prior ap-

proval of the appropriate Department of-

nicial or the Attorney General'in accord-

ance with § 16.24.

§ 16.23 Procedure in the event of a de-

mand for production

or disclosure.

(2) Whenever a demand is made upon

an employee or former employee of the

Department for

the production of ma-

terial or the disclosure of information

described in

$ 16.21(a), he shall im-

mediately notify the U.S. attorney for

the district where the issuing authority

is located. The U.S. attorney shall im-

mediately request instructions from the

appropriate Department official, as desig-

nated in paragraph (b) of this section.

(b) The Department officials author-

ized to approve production or disclosure

under this subpart are:

(1) In the event that. the case or other

matter which gave rise to the demanded

material or information is or, it closed,

was within the cognizance. of a division

of the Department,

the Assistant At-

torney General in charge of that divi-

sion. This authority may be redelegated

to Deputy Assistant Attorneys General.

(2) In instances of demands that are

not covered by paragraph (b) (1) of this

section:

---

## Page 17

(1) The Director of the Federal Bu- §16.26 -Procodure in the event of an nil.

reau of Investigation, if the demand is

verge ruling.

one made on an employee or former em-

If the court or other authority declines

ployee of that Bureau for information

to stay the effect of the demand in re-

or if the demand calls for the production

of material from

the files of that Bu-

sponse to a request made in accordance

reau, and

with § 16.25 pending receipt of instruc-

(11)

The Director of the Bureau of

tions, or if the court or other authority

Prisons, ii the demand is one made on

rules that the demand must be com-

• an employee or former employee of that

plied with irrespective of instructions

Bureau for information

Or

if the de-

not to produce the material or disclose

mand calls for the production of ma-

the information sought, in accordance

terial from the fles of that Bureau.

(3) In instances of demands that are with § 18.24, the employee or former em~

not covered by paragraph (b) (1) or (2)

ployee upon whom the demand has been

of this section,

the

Deputy Attorney made shall respectfully decline to comply

General.

with the demand. "United States ex rel

c) I oral testimony is sought by the

lemand, an affidavit, or, if that is not

Touhy v. Ragen," 340 U.S. 462.

Dated: January 11, 1973.

feasible, & statement by the party seek-

ing the testimony or his attorney, setting

RICHARD G. KLEINDIENSI,

forth & summary of the testimony de-

Attorney General.

sired, must be furnished for submission

[FR Doc.73-1071 Filed 1-17-73;8:45 am)

by the U.S, attorney to the appropriate

Department offcial.

§ 16.24 Final action by the appropriate

Department official or the Attorncy

Gencral.

(a) If the appropriate Department of-

ficial, as designated

in § 16.23(b), ap-

mates a or disclosure of intormation,

material or disclosure of

he shall so notify the U.s. attorney and

such other persons as circumstances may

warrant.

(b) If the appropriate Department

official, as

designated

in § 16.23(b),

decides not to approve a demand for the

production of material or disclosure of

information, he shall immediately refer

the demand to the Attorney General for

decision. Upon such referral, the Attor-.

ney General shall make the final decision

and give notice thereof to the U.S. attor-

ney and such other persons as circum-

stances may warrant.

§ 16.25

Procedure where & Department

decision concerning a demand is not

made prior to the time a résponse 1o

the demand is required.

If response to the demand is required

before the instructions from the appro-

priate Department official or the Attor-

ney General are received, the U.S. attor-

ney or other Department attorney des-

ignated for the purpose shall appear with

the employee or former employee ôf the

Department upon whom the demand has

been made, and shall furnish the court

or other authority. with a copy of the

regulations contained in this subpart and

inform the court or other authority that

the demand has been,

or is being, 2s

the

case

may

be, referred

for

the

prompt consideration of the appropriate

Department official and shall respect-

fully request the court or authority to

stay the demand pending receipt of the

requested instructions.

NW 65994_ Docld:32176&42 Page 17 -

---

## Page 18

OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL

WASHINGTON, D. C.

ORDER NO. 116-56

: May 15, 1956

It 1s the policy of the Department of Justice to extend the fullest

possible cooperation to congressional committees requesting Information from

departmental files, Interviews with department employees, testimony of depart-

ment personnel, or testimony of Federal prisoners.

the following procedures

are prescribed in order to effectuate this policy on a basis which will be

mutually satisfactory to the congressional cormittees and to the Department.

(Ints order supersedes the Deputy Attorney General's Memorandum No. 5, dated

March 23, 1953, and bis Memorandum No. 97, dated August 5, 1954. It formal-

Izes the Attorney General's press release of November 5, 1953, establishing

procedures to permit committees of the Congress and their authorized repre-

sentatives to interview and to take sworn testimony from Federal prisoners.

It supplements Order No. 3229 (Revised) dated January 13, 1953, and Order

No. 3464, Supplement No. 4 (Revised) dated January 13, 1953 (with Nemorandur

of "Authorization Under Order No. 3464 Supplement No. 4 (Revised)" dated

January 13, 1953), insofar as said orders have reference to procedures to be

followed in the Department's relations with congressional committees. In

support of this order, reference should be had to the President's letter

dated May 17, 1954, addressed to the Secretary of Defense, and to the Attorney

General's Memorandum which accompanied 1t.]

A. REQUESTS FOR INFORMATION FROM DEPARIMENT FILES

I. Congressional committee requests for the examination of files

or other confidential information should be reduced to writing, signed by

the chairman of the committee, and addressed to the Deputy Attorney General,

who is responsible for the coordination of our liaison with Congress and

congressional committees. The request shall state the specific information

sought as well as the specific objective for which it is sought.

The Deputy

Attorney General will forward the request to the appropriate division where a

reply will be prepared and returned for the Deputy Attorey General's signa-

ture and dispatch to the chairman of the committee.

2. If the request concerns a closed case, 1. e., one in which

there is no litigation or administrative action pending or contemplated,

the file may be made available for review in the Department, in the presence

of the official or employee having custody thereof. The following procedure

shall be followed in such cases:

a. The reply letter will advise the committee that the

file is avallable for examination and set forth the

name, telephone extension number, and room number of

the person who will have custody of the file to be

reviewed;

NW. 65994 Dold: 32176842-Rage 18-- -- -

---

## Page 19

• 2 =

b. Before making the file available to the committee

representative all reports and memoranda from the FBI

as vell as investigative reports from any other agency,

will be removed from the file and not be made available

for examination; provided however that if the committee

representative states that it is essential that information

from the FBI reports and memoranda be made available,

he will be advised that the request will be considered

by the Department. Thereafter a summary of the contents

of the FBI reports and memoranda involved will be

prepared which will not disclose investigative tech-

niques, the identity of confidential informants, or

other matters which might jeopardize the investigative

operations of the FBI. This summary will be forwarded

by the division to the FBI with a request for advice as

tö whether the FBI has any objection to examination of

such summary by the committee representative. The file

will not be physically relinquished from the custody of

the Department. If the committee representative desires

to examine investigative reports from other government

agencies, contained in the files of the Department, he

will be advised to direct his request to the agency whose

reports are concerned.

3. If the request concerns an open case, 1. e., one which liti-

gation or administrative action 1s pending or contemplated, the file may

not be made available for examination by the committee's representative.

The following procedure shall be followed:

a. The reply letter should advise the conmittee that

Its request concerns a case in which litigation or

administrative action is pending or contemplatea, and

state that the file cannot be made available until the

case is completed; and

b. Should briefly set forth the status of the case in

as much detail as is practicable and prudent without

jeopardizing the pending contemplated litigation or

administrative action.

B. REQUESTS FOR INTERVIENS WITH DEPARIMENTAL PERSONNEL

I. Requests for Interviews with departmental personnel regarding

any official matters within the Department should be reduced to writing,

signed by the chairman of the committee, and addressed to the Deputy Attorney

General. Then the approval of the Deputy Attorney General is given, the

employee is expected to discuss such matters freely and cooperatively with

the representative, subject to the limitations prescribed in A respecting

open cases and data

• In investigative reports;

NW.65994-Docld:32176842 Page 19 - - --

---

## Page 20

• 3-

2. Upon the completion of the interview with the committee repre-

sentative the employee vill prepare a summary of it for the file, with a

copy routed to his division head and a copy routed to the Deputy Attorney

General.

C.

EMPLOYEES TESTIFYING BEFORE CONGRESSIONAL COMMITTEES

I. When an employee is requested to testify before a congressional

committee regarding official matters within the Department the Deputy Attorney

General shall be promptly informed.

When the Deputy Attorney General's approv-

al is given the employee is expected to testify freely subject to limitations.

prescribed in A respecting open cases and date in investigative reports;

2. An employee subpoenaed to testify before a congressional committee

on official matters within the Department shall promptly notify the Deputy

Attorney General. In general he shall be guided in testifying by Order 3229

(Revised) and the President's letter of May 17, 1954, cited at the beginning

of this Order.

3. Upon the completion of his testimony the employee will prepare

a memorandum outlining his testimony with a copy routed to hig division head

and a copy routed to the Deputy Attorney General.

D. REQUESTS OF CONCRESSIONAL COMMITTELS FOR THE TESTIMONY OF FEDERAL PRISONERS

Because of the custodial hazards involved and the extent to which.

their public testimony may affect the discipline and well-being of the institu-

tion, it is the rolley of the Department not to deliver Federal prisoners out

the penal institution in which they are Incarcerated for the purpose of

being interviewed or examined under oath by congressional committees.

However,

when it appears that no pending investigation or legal proceeding will be

adversely affected thereby and that the public interest will not be otherwise

adversely affected, Federal prisoners may be interviewed or examined under oath

by congressional committees in the institution in which they are incarcerated

under the following procedures, and tith the specific advance approval of the

Deputy Attorney General.

1. Arrangements for interviewing and taking of sworn testimony

from a federal prisoner by a committee of the Congress or the authorized

representatives of such a committee shall be made in the form of a written

request by the chairman of the committee to the Deputy Attorney General.

2. Such written request shall be made at least ten (10) days

prior to the requested date for the interview and the taking of testimony

and shall be accompanied by written evidence that authorization for the

interview or the taking of sworn testimony was approved by vote of the com-

mittee.

Such request shall contain a statement of the purpose and the sub-

jects upon which the prisoner will be interrogated as vell as the names of

all persons other than the representatives of the Department of Justice who

M111 be present.

3. A member of the interested committee of the Congress shall be

present during the entire time of the interrogation.

NW.65994- Docld:32176842 Page-20 m- ---

---

## Page 21

= 4

4. The warden of the penal Institution in which the Federal

prisoner is incarcerated shall, at least forty-eight (48) hours prior to the

time at which the Interview takes place, advise the Federal prisoner concerned

of the proposed intervlew or taling of svor testimony; and shall further

advise that he 1s under the same, but

no greater obligation to answer than any

other witness who is not a prisoner.

5. The warden of the penal institution shall have complete

authority in conformity with the requirements of security and the mainte-

nance of discipline to limit the number of persons who will be present at

the interview and taking of testimony.

6. The warden or his authorized representative shell be present

at the interview and at the taling of testimony and the Department of Justice

shall have the right to have one of its representatives present throughout

the interview and taking of testimony.

7. The committee shall arrange to have a stenographic transcript

made of the entire proceedings at committee expense and shall furnish a copy

of the transcript to the Department of Justice.

E. OBSERVERS IN ATTENDANCE AT COMMITTED HEARINGS

In order that the Department may be kept currently advised in

matters within its responsibility, and in order that the Deputy Attorney

General may properly coordinate the Department's liaison with Congress and

Its committees, each division that has an observer in attendance at a

congrssional hearing, will have the observer prepare a written summary of

the proceeding which should be sent to the division head and a copy routed

to the Deputy Attorney General.

/s/ Herbert Brownell, J.

Attorney General

NW. 65994. .Dogld:32176842-Rage 21-

---

## Page 22

1

1

CODE

TELETYPE

MI•

F7.

0. Cregar

J. P. Lee

IMMEDIATE

TO SACS

NEW YORK

BOSTON +

DETROIT/

LOS ANGELES

MIAMI

SAN FRANCISCO

SEATTLE ::

WEO

JUNE 18, 1975

FROM DIRECTOR FBI

PORSECRET

SENSTUDY 1975, BUDED: JUNE 24, 1975.

THE FOLLOWING REQUEST FOR INFORMATION HAS BEEN ADDRESSED

TO THE ATTORNEY GENERAL AND FROM THE ATTORNEY GENERAL TO FBIHQ

FROM THE SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE TO STUDY COVERNMENTAI

OPERATIONS WITH RESPECT TO INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES: " ..

THE FOLLOWING REQUESTS PERTAINING TO THE TECHNIQUE REFERRED TO

AS 'MAIL SURVEILLANCE, INCLUDING MAII COVERS AND OPENING MAIL'

AND THE UTILIZATION OF THIS TECHNIQUE 'IN INTERNAL SECURITY,

INTELLIGENCE COLLECTION, AND/OR COUNTERINTELLIGENCE MATTERS,

OPERATIONS, OR ACTIVITIES: ' (1) FOR ALL INCIDENTS OF MAIL

OPENING OR MAIL INTERCEPT BY OR ON BEHALE OF THE FEDERAL BUREAU

OF INVESTIGATION FROM JANUARY 1, 1960, UNTIL THE PRESENT, PLEASE

STATE THE PHYSICAL LOCATION WHERE THE OPENING OR INTERCEPT WAS

CONDUCTED, THE NAMES OF THE INDIVIDUALS WHO PARTICIPATED IN THE

OPENING OR INTERCEPI, THE TYPE OF MATI OPENED OR INTERCEPTED,

Assor, Dir. -

Dep. AD Adm. -

Dep. AD Inv. _

Asst. Dir.:

Admin. -

JPI: jap

(4)

Comp. Syst. pr

Ext. Affairs.

CLASSIFIED BY SPaAm UrAf

FEDERAL 'BUREAU DE INVESTIGATION

Files & Com. -

DECLAGFIE"

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

Gen. Inv._

miDR-b

518pm

Ident. -

JUM 1 8 1975

Inspection -

Intell. -

RES-75. 62-116395-249

ALO

LobeL INFORMATION CONTAINED

•TELETYPE

Spoc. InHEREN IS HAM,AGOIED EXCEPT

N BN 1975

Telephone Rm. -

START

TN FNVET.OPE.

GPO: 1975 0 - 569-920

---

## Page 23

PAGE THO

TOP SECRUI

AND THE PURPOSE OF THE OPENING OR INTERCEPT. (2) FOR ALL

INCIDENTS OF MAIL COVERS THAT WERE PHYSICALLY CONDUCTED BY FBI

EMPLOYEES, WHETHER ALONE OR IN COOPERATION WITH POSTAL SERVICE

EMPLOYEES, FROM JANUARY 1, 1960, UNTIL THE PRESENT, PLEASE STATE

THE

PHYSICAL LOCATION WHERE THE COVER WAS CONDUCTED, THE NAMES

OF THE INDIVIDUAIS WHO PARTICIPATED IN THE COVER, THE TYPE OF

MAIL COVERED, AND THE PURPOSE OF THE COVER. (3) PLEASE PROVIDE

ALI DOCUMENTS AND MEMORANDA WHICH DISCUSS, REFER, OR RELATE TO

THE ORIGINS, AUTHORIZATIONS, CONDUCT AND TERMINATION OF, AND

POLICIES AND PROCEDURES FOR, THE MAIL OPENINGS, INTERCEPTS, AND

COVERS IDENTIFIED ABOVE. "

EACH OFFICE SHOULD IMMEDIATELY REVIEW ITS FILES FOR ALI

INFORMATION REQUESTED BY THE SENATE COMMITTEE. NEW YORK, BOSTON,

DETROIT, LOS ANGELES, SEATTLE, AND WEO SHOULD FURNISH INFOR-

MATION CONCERNING SAM SURVEY. NEW YORK, DETROIT, AND SAN

FRANCISCO SHOULD FURNISH INTORMATION CONCERNING US SURVER. (6)

NEW YORK AND WEO SHOULD FURNISH INFORMATION CONCERNING Z COVERAGE.

SAN FRANCISCO SHOULD FURNISH INFORMATION CONCERNING CHIPROP

NW 65994-Docld:32176842 Page-23

M.--

---

## Page 24

DEWATE

PAGE THREE TOP SECRET

AND CHICLET. MIAMI SHOULD ADVISE IT THE INFORMATION RECEIVED

FROM MM 890-S* RESULTED FROM INTERCEPT OF MAIL AND IF SO

APPROPRIATE INFORMATION SHOULD BE FURNISHED. RESULTS SHOULD BE

SUBUITTED BY TELETYPE, ATTENTION OF SA W. O. CREGAR, AND SHOULD

REACH THE BUREAU BY JUNE 24, 1975.

NW 65994-Docld:32176842~ Page 24

•Far

---

## Page 25

1

CODE

TELETYPE

-

MC •

0, Cregar

J. P. Lee

IMMEDIATE

TO SACS NEW YORK

BOSTON +

DETROIT'

LOS ANGELES

MIAMI.

SAN FRANCISCO

SEATTLE

WEO

JUNE 18, 1975

FROM DIRECTOR FBI

TORGECREI

SENSTUDY 1975, BUDED: JUNE 24, 1975.

THE FOLLOWING REQUEST FOR INFORMATION HAS BEEN ADDRESSED

TO THE ATTORNEY GENERAL AND FROM THE ATTORNEY GENERAL TO FBINQ

FROM THE SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE TO STUDY GOVERNMENTAL

OPERATIONS WITH RESPECI TO INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES: " ..

THE FOLLOWING REQUESIS PERTAINING TO THE TECHNIQUE REFERRED TO

AS 'MATI, SURVEILLANCE, INCLUDING MAII COVERS AND OPENING MAIL'

AND THE UTILIZATION OF THIS TECHNIQUE 'IN INTERNAL SECURITY,

INTELLIGENCE COLLECTION, AND/OR COUNTERINTELLIGENCE MATTERS,

OPERATIONS, OR ACTIVITIES: ' (1) FOR ALL INCIDENTS OF MAIL

OPENING OR MAIL INTERCEPT BY OR ON BEHALF OF THE FEDERAL BUREAU

OF INVESTIGATION FROM JANUARY 1, 1960, UNTIL THE PRESENT, PLEASE

SLATE THE PHYSICAL, LOCATION WHERE THE OPENING OR INTERCEPT WAS

CONDUCTED, THE NAMES OF THE INDIVIDUALS WHO PARTICIPATED IN THE

OPENING OR INTERCEPT, THE TYPE OF MAII OPENED OR INTERCEPTED,

Assoc. Dir.

Dep. AD Adm. -

Dep. AD Inv. -

Asst. Dir.:

Admin.

JPI: jap

(4)

Comp. Syst. p

Ext. Affairs

Files & Com. _

Gen.Inv..co

Ident. -

Inspection .

Intell. -

REC-TE

Laboratory

Plan. & AEL INFORMATION CONTAINED

Spec. In HEn!

roinine

DECLAGRIC R91 RE

62-116395-249

FEDÉRAL 'BUREAU DF INVESTIGATION

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

18pmi

JUN 1 8 1975

• TELETYPE

Telephone Rm. -

VISE.

1 ATL ROOM L

SEGS

• 90 1975

TN FINVET.OPE.

GPO: 1975 0 - 569-920

---

## Page 26

PHILMPI

PAGE THO

FOr SECRLI

AND THE PURPOSE OF THE OPENING OR INTERCEPT. (2) FOR ALI

INCIDENTS OF MAIL COVERS THAT WERE PHYSICALLY CONDUCTED BY FBI

ELPLOYEES, WHETHER ALONE OR IN COOPERATION WITH POSTAL, SERVICE

EMPLOYEES, FROM JANUARY 1, 1960, UNTIL THE PRESENT, PLEASE STATE

THE

PHYSICAL LOCATION WHERE THE COVER WAS CONDUCTED, THE NAMES

OF THE INDIVIDUALS WHO PARTICIPATED IN THE COVER, THE TYPE OF

MAIT COVERED, AND THE PURPOSE OF THE COVER. (3) PLEASE PROVIDE

ALL DOCUMENTS AND MEMORANDA WHICH DISCUSS, REFER, OR RELATE TO

THE ORIGINS, AUTHORIZATIONS, CONDUCT AND TERMINATION OF, AND

POLICIES AND PROCEDURES FOR, THE MAIL OPENINGS, INTERCEPTS, AND

COVERS IDENTIFIED ABOVE."

EACH OFFICE SHOULD IMMEDIATELY REVIEW ITS FILES FOR ALI

INFORMATION REQUESTED BY THE SENATE COMMITTEE. NEW YORK, BOSTON,

DETROIT, LOS ANGELES, SEATTLE, AND WEO SHOULD FURNISH INFOR-

MATION CONCERNING SAM SURVEY. NEW YORK, DETROIT, AND SAN

PRANCISCO SHOULD FURNISH INPORATION CONCERNING US SURVEX. (5)

NEW YORK AND WEO SHOULD FURNISH INFORMATION CONCERNING Z COVERAGE.

SAN FRANCISCO SHOULD FURNISH INFORMATION CONCERNING CHIPROP

NW 65994~Docld:32176842 Page 26

Th-

---

## Page 27

DEWASH

PAGE THREE TOP SECRET

AND CHICLET. MIAMI SHOULD ADVISE II THE INFORATION RECEIVED

FROM IM 890-S* RESULTED FROM INTERCEPT OF MAIL AND IF SO

APPROPRIATE INFORMATION SHOULD BE FURNISHED. RESULTS SHOULD BE

SUBUITTED BY TELETYPE, ATTENTION OF SAW. O. CREGAR, AND SHOULD

REACH THE BUREAU BY JUNE 24, 1975.

, 0E

NW 65994- Docld:32176842-Page 27 =

---

## Page 28

NROD 4

14:45 PM

BS CODE

KLESA ROWERD NG BUYESTRAFION

COSEAUNICAMOCO GECTION

6/20/75

RCM

TO: DIRECIOR CATIN: INID, SA W. O. CREGAR)

FROM: BOSTON

(66-4177)

Re SE

R

ET

4123 1L!

SENSTUDY / 1975; BUDED: JUNE 24, 1975

ASSOC.

Dir.

Dep.-A.D.-Adri

•Dep.-A.D.-Inv.-

Asst, Dir.:

Admin.

Comp.

Syst.

Ext. Affairs

Files & Com.

Gen, Inv. -

Ident.

Inspection

Intoll,

Launratory

Plan. & Eval.

Spec. Iny.

Training

Legal Coun

RE/HEADQUATERS TELETYPE, JUNE 18, 1975, WHICH SET OUT REQUES ST

FOR INFORMATION ADDRESSED TO ATTORNEY GENERAL AND FROM

ATTORNEY GENERAL TO FBIHQ FROM SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE

TO STUDY GOVERNMENTAL OPERATIONS WITH RESPECT TO INTELLIGENCE

ACTIVITIES:

A REVIEW OF ALL AVAILABLE FILES IN THE BOSTON OFFICE

AND CONTACT WITH APPROPRIATE SUPERVISORS AND SPECIAL AGENT

PERSONNEL DID NOT DISCLOSE ANY INCIDENTS OF MAIL OPENING OR

MAIL INTERCEPI BY OR ON BEHALF OF FBI FROM JANUARY 1, 1960,

TO PRESENT.

CONDUCTED BY FBI EMPLOYEES ALONE OR IN COOPERATION WITH

EMPLOYEES OF THE U. SO POSIAL SERVICE JERE DISCLOSED FROM REVIEW

OF FILES AND CONTACT WITH APPROPRIATE PERSONNEL OF THE

BOSTON OFFICER FBI.

MDR 16

IR JUL 25 1975.

consiate.d

6/28

DECLASSINED BESEANLMLEHL

-Ent

/1L4,100

Za

5-U

659

1?19

2 9 1975

Doclä:391/6842 Page 2g Page 172

---

## Page 29

d...

PAGE TWO, BS 66-4117, 1

TOF

SEgRET

FOR INFORMATION OF FBIHQ, BOSTON FILE 65-4447,.

CAPTIONED SAM SURVEY, WAS DESTROYED IN 1973. BUFILE IN.

THIS MATTER IS 65-65884.

CLASSIFIED BY 63209

2 AND 3, INDEFINITE.

END.

VLJ FBIHQ CLR

SIKRET

55089

Do010: 32989618

65994

Docld:32176842

Page 29Page 173-

---

## Page 30

375

NRO18 BS CODED

8:03PM NITEL JULY 24, 1975

F6.52

TO :

FROM:

DIRECTOR

62-116395

BOSTON 66-4177

Assoc. Dir.

Dep.-A.D.-Adm.

Asst. Dif.:

Admin.

Comp. Syst.

Ext.

Affairs

Files & Com.

Gen. Inv. -

Ident.

nspectio

Intell. WRW/75

Labnratory

Plan. & Eval.

spec. Inv. -.

Training

Legal Coun

relephone Ru. -

Director Sec'y

ATTN:

INTD, (SA We O. CREGAR)

CENSTUDY, 1975.

ON JULY 24, 1975, JOHN F. KEHOE, JR., (FORMER SA) ,.

COMMISSIONER OF PUBLIC SAFETY, COMMONWEALTH OF MASS.,

ADVISED THAT ON JULY 23, 1975, HE HAD RECEIVED A TELEPHONE

CALL FROM PAUP WALLACH, WHO STATED HE WAS

A STAFF MEMBER

OF THE UNITED STATES SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE

chigar

#MR 16

SR

ACTIVITIES. WALLACH GAVE HIS TELEPHONE NUMBER AS

202-224-1700. WALLACH ASKED KEHOE IF HE WAS A FORMER SPECIAL

AGENT OF FBI AND KEHOE REPLIED IN THE AFFIRMATIVE. WALLACH

THEN INQUIRED WHETHER KEHOE HAD BEEN INVOLVED IN

ELECTRONIC SURVEILLANCE OR OTHER COVERT INTELLIGENCE

GATHERING ACTIVITIES IN NEW YORK CITY IN

1HH

REC-52

KEHOE TOLD WALLACH THAI HE HAD BEEN L

AN SA ASSIGNED TO

0562-116595465

THE NEW YORK OFFICE IN 1946 AND 1947. WALLACH STATED

BYOU DIDN'T GO BACK THERE TO DO SOME JOB DURING THE 60'S

DID YOU?" KEHOE REPLIED

IN THE NEGATIVE.

WALLACH THEN

5'1

SCALE CO 1975

AUG dO 1975

NW 55108

DocId: 32989624

NW 65994 Docld:32176842 Page 30

Page 235

---

## Page 31

PAGE TWO

BS 66-4177

ASKED IF KEHOE KNEW OF ANY OTHER SA'S NAMED KEHOE WHO*

WERE

ASSIGNED TO NEW YORK OFFICE DURING THE 1960'S AND

WHO WERE NOW RETIRED. KEROE REPLIED IN THE NEGATIVE,

AT WHICH TIME WALLACH CONCLUDED THE TELEPHONE CONVERSATION.

THE ABOVE IS FOR INFORMATION OF FBIHQ.

END

W 55108 DOcId: 32989624 Page 236

NW 65994 Docld:32176842 Page 31

---

## Page 32

CODE

TELETYPE

1 =

Mr

1 -

Mr.

B. Adams

'T. J. Jenkins

NITE:

1 - Each Assistant Diri

IO ALL SACS

FROM DIRECTOR FBI (62-116395)

SEPTEMBER 4, 1975

1 - Mr. W. O. Cregar

PERSONAL ATTENTION

1 - Mr. S. F. Phillips

SENSTUDY 75'

REBUTEL MAY 2, 1975.

PERS®

PURPOSES OF INSTANT TELETYPE ARE TO (1) REITERATE THAT UNIT

FBI HAS PLEDGED FULL COOPERATION WITH THE SENATE SELECT -

COMMITTEE (SSC) AND WISHES TO ASSIST AND FACILITATE ANY

INVESTIGATIONS UNDERTAKEN BY THE SSC WITH RESPECT TO THE FBI;

AND (2) SET FORTH NEW PROCEDURE RELATING. TO SSC STAFF

INTERVIEWS OF CURRENT AND FORMER FBI EMPLOYEES.

FOR INFORMATION OF THOSE OFFICES WHICH HAVE NOT PREVIOUSLY

HAD CURRENT OR FORMER EMPLOYEES IN ITS TERRITORY: INTERVIEWED

BY THE SSC, THE BUREAU FREQUENTLY LEARNS FROM THE SSC OR

OTHERWISE THAT FORMER EMPLOYEES ARE BEING CONSIDERED FOR

INTERVIEW BY THE SSC START. INSTRUCTIONS ARE ISSUED FOR THE

HILLU ONLICH LO CONTACT INL FO

TEC-49g

EMPLOYEE TO ALERT HIM AS

POSSIBLE INTERVIEW, REMIND HIM OF HIS CONFIDENTIALITY AGREEMENT

Assoc. Dir. -

Dep. AD Adm. -

SFP: 1hb|li b

FiL! HOFORAATION CONTAINED

Dep. AD Inv. -

(19)

Asst. Dir.:

Admin.

•Comp. Syst.

COMM0.1000g

1201900.12 ALRE

SEP I' ROSS PAGE 3

Ext. Affairs

Files & Com.

Gen. inv.

SEPO -1975

Ident.

Inspection

55954

Intell.

TREVE

Laboratory

Plan. & Eval. -

Spoc. Inv. -

Training

Legal Coun.

Director Sec'y

MAIL ROOM L

TELETYPE UNIT V

With pum

notice

15.3

GPO: 1975 0 - 569-

NW 85994-DoZid:321/8842-Page 32 - -

---

## Page 33

pa

PAGE TWO

62-116395

WITH THE BUREAU AND SUGGEST THAT IF HE

IS CONTACIED FOR

INTERVIEN, HE MAY CONTACT THE LEGAL COUNSEL DIVISION BY

COLLECI CALL FOR FURTHER INFORMATION. IN THE USUAL CASE,

AS CIRCUMSTANCES UNFOLD, THE TORMER EMPLOYEE IS TOLD (1)

THAI HE HAS A RIGHT TO LEGAL COUNSEL, BUI THAT THE BUREAU

CANNOT PROVIDE SAME; (2) THAT THE BUREAU HAS WAIVED THE

CONFIDENTIALITY AGREEMENT FOR THE INTERVIEW WITHIN SPECIFIED

PARAMETERS; AND (3) THAT THERE ARE FOUR PRIVILEGED AREAS IN

WHICH HE IS NOT REQUIRED TO ANSWER QUESTIONS. THESE AREAS

ARE RELATING IO INFORMATION WHICH MAY (A) IDENTIFY BUREAU

SOURCES; (B) REVEAL SENSITIVE METHODS/TECHNIQUES; (C) REVEAL

IDENTITIES OF THIRD AGENCIES, INCLUDING FOREIGN INTELZIGENCE

AGENCIES, OR INFORMATION FROM SUCH AGENGIES; AND (D) ADVERSELY

AFFECI ONGOING BUREAU INVESTIGATIONS.

HERETOFORE, BUREAU HAS OFFERED INTERVIEVEES CONSULTATION

PRIVILIGES WHEREBY A BUREAU SUPERVISOR WOULD BE AVAILABLE

NEARBY, ALTHOUGH NOT ACTUALLY AT INTERVIEW, SO INTERVIEVEE

MIGHT CONSULT WITH HIM SHOULD QUESTIONS ARISE AS TO PARAMETERS

OF INTERVIEV OR PRIVILEGED AREAS. THE CONSULTANT DID NOT ACT

AS A LEGAL ADVISOR.

NW 65994 -Docld:32176842 -Page 33 -

---

## Page 34

PAGE THREE

62-116395

EFFECTIVE IMMEDIATELY, BUREAU WILL NO LONGER PROVIDE

ON-THE-SCENE PERSONNEL FOR CONSULTATION PURPOSES TO ASSIST

EITHER CURRENT OR FORMER EMPLOYEES. PROSPECTIVE INTERVIEVEES

SHOULD BE IOLD THAI, IF THEY DESIRE ASSISTANCE OF THIS NATURE,

DURING AN INTERVIEW, THEY MAY CONTACT EITHER PERSONALLY (IF

INTERVIEW IS IN WASHINGTON, D. C.) OR BY COLLECT CALL, THE.

ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF THE INTELLIGENCE DIVISION, MR. I. R.

MANNAIL, OR, IN HIS ABSENCE, SECTION CHIEF W. O. CREGAR.

THIS CHANGE IN PROCEDURE SHOULD NOT BE CONSTRUED AS

LESSENING THE ASSISTANCE WE ARE FURNISHING TO CURRENT AND

FORMER EMPLOYEES.

FOR YOUR ADDITIONAL INFORMATION, I AM WORKING WITH THE

• DEPARTMENT IN EXPLORING AVENUES TO ARRANGE LEGAL REPRESENTATION,

• WHEN NECESSARY, FOR CURRENT AND FORMER EMPLOYEES WITHOUT

EXPENSE TO THEM, YOU WILL BE KEPT ADVISED OF DEVELOMENTS

IN THIS REGARD.

NOTE:

-

Referenced 5/2/75 teletype briefly informed of our

cooperation with the SSC and of our obligation to insure

that sensitive sources, methods and ongoing sensitive

investigations are fully protected. Change in procedure

relating to consultation privileges of interviewees is

intended to facilitate interviews with a minimum of

disruption to ongoing Bureau operations, including its

servicing of SSC requests.

NW 65994 -Docld:32176842-Page 34 -

---

## Page 35

7:

I -W.

0. Cregar

1 .J.

P. Thomas

CODE

TELETYPE

NITEL

TO BOSTON

CHÍCAGO

DETROIT

LOS ANGELES

NEWARK

NEW YORK

SAN DIEGO

SAINT LOUIS

SEPTEMBER 3,

1975

FROM DIRECTOR (62-116395)

SENSTUDY 75.

-SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE (SSC) HAS REQUESTED IDENTITIES OF

ALL SUPERVISORS AND COORDINATORS FOR NEW LEFT. AND BIACK EXTRE-

MIST COINTELPROS FOR 1967 THROUGH 1971 IN RECIPIENT OFFICES.

BY NITEL SEPTEMBER 5, 1975; ATTENTION INID, W. O. CREGAR;

FURNISH IDENTITIES OF SUCH PERSONNEL AND DATES OF PERTINENT

COINTELPRO ASSIGNMENTS. IF INDIVIDUAL IS STILL ASSIGNED TO

YOUR OFFICE, SO STATE.

END

JPT: pal

(4)

ALLINFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE 10/42/00 BY SPALM/CL

" NOTE:

Above based on SSC request dated 8/26/75, Part I, item 8,

deadline 9/12/75.

SI. 109

REC-37

=631

Assoc. Dir.

Dep. AD Adm. -

Dep. AD Iny. _

Asst. Dir.:

Admin.

Comp. Syst. _

fi.

Ext. Affairs -

Files & Com. -

Gen. Inv. -

Ident.

Inspection..

Intell. -

Labaratory com

166 04:!

COMMUR CATIONS SECHION

SEPO EigIS

VLJ

Plan, & Evol.-

Spoc.Inv..com

raining

TELETYPE

egal Cogn. JDEr 1 719/1

Telephone Rm. -

Director See'y -

MAIL ROOM /

TELETYPE UNIT

TE SEP. I0 1975

9-13-591==3

SPT

clan.

---

## Page 36

NR DD9 BS CODED

5:43PM NITEL

/SEPTEMBER 4, 1975

62-116395

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

SEP 0 < 1975

VELETYPE

IO: DIRECTOR

FROM: BOSTON

664117

AJIN: INID, WOO. CREGAR

MR.

SENSI UDY 15.

REBUNITEL, SEPTEMBER 3, 1975.

SET OUT BELOW ARE IDENTITIES OF SUPERVISORS AND

COORDINATORS FOR NEW LEFT AND BLACK EXTREMIST COINTELPROS FOR

1967 THROUGH 1971:

NEW LEFT

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

ATE 10017-0

SUPV • BERNARD

MCCABE, PRESENTLY ASSIGNED BOSTON,

MANY

15 ,. 1968: - JANUAR&

28, 1979, AND AUGUST 24, 1978 -

3, 1971; ALSO SUPERVISED BY FORMER ASAC RALPH D. RAMPION,

NOW ASSIGNED LOS ANGELES, JANUARY 28 IO AUGUSI 24, 1970:

COORDINATORS WERE SA THOMAS D.

MANNING, PRESENILY ASSIGNED

BOSTON, MAY 15, 1968 TO JULY 15, 1968, AND JULY 15, 1968,03

TO JANUARY 29, 1970; FORMER SA RICHARD

BLASREC-20

RETIRED), JUNE 2D, 1975, AGILD AS COORDINAIOR JUNE

15, 1968

TO JULY 11, 1969; SA JAMES A.

BENBROOK, TRANSFERRED

FROM BOSTON TO LOUISVILLE DURING 1972,!

ACTED: AS; COORDINATOR

JANUARY 29, 1970I0 APRIL 3D, 19782 SA, LEO

BRUNNICK

Karate

lace Gen

SERRR: 1975

611

A SEP23

19/5

d: 3298964€

NW 65994 - Doeld:32176842 Page 36aJe 117

Assoc. Dir

Dep.-A.D.-Adm

Asst. I1 :

Admin.

Comp Pic

Ext. Affairs

Files. Com.

Gen. Inv. :.

Ident.

Inspection

Intell.

Labiratury

Plan. & Eval. -

Spec. Inv. .

Training

Legal Coun

Telephone Ri.

Director Sec'y

Corrected

Bs Nitel

19385=681

SEP 19 1975

---

## Page 37

PAGE TWO

BS 66-4117

NOW ASSIGNED HQ, ACIED AS COORDINATOR APRIL 30, 1970 IO.

MAY 3, 1971.

COINELPROS BLACK EXTREMIST

SUPERVISED BY THE FOLLOWING INDIVIDUALS DURING

DATES INDICATED:

FREDERICK M.

CONNORS (NOW RETIRED), AUGUST 28, 1967 -

APRIL 8, 1968; MICHAEL J

MCDO NAGH (NOW RETIRED),

MAY

31, 1969 TO APRIL 17,

1970; JAMES D

MCKENZ IE ,

NOW

ASSIGNED HQ, APRIL 17, 1978 TO MAY 1, 1971.

THE FOLLOWING AGENTS ACTED AS COORDINATORS DURING

PERIOD INDICATED:

FORMER SA JOHN

NOONAN (NOW RETIRED) , AUGUST 28, 1967

TO SEPTEMBER 4, 1969;

SA EVEREII J.

BICKFORD, PRESENILY

ASSIGNED BOSION, SEPTEMBER 4, 1969 TO NOVEMBER 12, 1969;

SA MARVINE. LEWIS, UNDER TRANSFER TO HQ, NOVEMBER 12, 1969

IO MAY

1971.

END

EJF FBIHQ 3.

MH 55171 DocId: 32989644 Page 118

NW 65994"Docid:32176842Page 37

---

## Page 38

BS CODED

-NI

NR 011

BS, CODED

8:20PM

NITEL SEPTEMBER 5, 1975 MCM

TO: DIRECTOR (62-116395)

FROM: BOSTON (65-4117)

CATI IN :

INTD, W. O. CREGAR)

SE NST UD Y

75

Assoc. Dir.

Dep.-A.D.-Adm

Dep.-A.D.-InV.

Asst. Dir.:

FEDERAL BUKCAU OF INVESTIGATION

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

SEPÔ 5 197,5*

TELETYPE

Admin. -

Comp. Syst.

Ext. Affairs

Files & Com.

Gen. Inv. -

Ident. -

Inspection

Intell. -

Lauoratory

Plan. & Eval -

Spec. Inv. -

Training

Legal Cour. -

Telephone Rn. -

Director Sec's

MR. 489

ALLINFORMATION CONTAINED:

123

JEH

DATE STACEY SPLALANA

DATE 0/2-00

_ BY .

UNID

ARDS

-RE BUNITEL SEPTEMBER 3, 1975, RE BOSNITEL SEPTEMBER 4 LASI.

THIS NITEL IS CORRECTED VERSION OF RE BOSNITEL •

SET OUT BELOW ARE IDENTITIES OF SUPERVISORS AND COORDINATORS

NEW LEFT"' AND " BLACK EXTREMIST COINTELPROS FOR 1967 THROUGH

71"

X6 109

NEW LEFT:

REC-16

62-114-385-698

SUPV. BERNARD I • MCCABE, (PRESENTLY ASSIGNED BOSTON) SUPERVISED

PROGRAM FROM MAY 15, 1968 IO JANUARY 28, 197D AND FROM

AUGUST24

19 7&

12 SEP 19 1975

TO MAY 3, 1971.

ALSO SUPERVISED BY SAC RALPH D. RAMPTON, (NOW IN LAD FROM

JANUARY 28, 1970 TO AUGUSI 24, 1978.

COORDINATORS WERE SA THOMAS D. MANNING, NOW ASSIGNED

BOSTON FROM MAY 15, 1968 TO JULY 15, 1968 AND FROM JULY I1, 1969

IO JANUARY 29, 1978. RETIRED SA RICHARD H. BLASSER SERVED AS A:

agents

file

SEP 18752989644

NW 65994 Docld:32176842 Page 38

SEP BR 1975

Page 97

---

## Page 39

PAGE TWO BS-4117

COORDINATOR FROM JULY 15, 1968 IO JULY IL, 1969. SA JAMES A.

BENBROOK (NOW ASSIGNED LOUISVILLE) SERVED AS COORDINATOR JANUARY

29, 1978 TO APRIL 3D, 197D. SA LEO E. BRUNNICK (NOW AT FBIHQ)

SERVED AS COORDINATOR FROM APRIL 3D, 1978 IO MAY 3, 1971.

BLACK EXTREMIST :

SUPERVISED BY RETIRED SA FREDERICK M. CONNORS FROM AUGUST

28, 1967 TO APRIL 8, 1968 BY SA BERNARD I. MCCABE, APRIL 8, 1968

IO MAY 31, 1969, BY RETIRED SA MICHAEL J. MCDONAGH FROM

MAY. 31, 1969 TO APRIL 17, 1979 BY SA JAMES D. MCKENZIE NOW

AT FBIHQ FROM APRIL 17, 1978 TO MAY 1, 1971.

THE FOLLOWING SAS ACTED AS JOHN JOHN F. NOONAN

RETIRED) FRÔM AUGUST 28, 1967 TO SEPTEMBER 4, 1969. EVERETT

J. BICKFORD (NOW IN BOSTON) FROM SEPTEMBER 4, 1969 TO NOVEMBER

12, 1969•

MARVIN E • LEWIS CUNDER TRANSFER TO HQ) FROM

NOVEMBER 12, 1969 IO MAY 1, 1971.

ENE • FBIHQ I•

MW 55171 DocId: 32989644

NW 65994-Đocld:32176842-Page 39

Page

98

---

## Page 40

COPY RETAINED 119

FENSONNEL

RECORDS

VEn'

CODE

TELETYPE

NITEL

TO ALEXANDRIA

BALITMURE

BIKMINGHAM

BUSTON

CHICAGO

CINCINNATI

DALLAS

EL PISO

INDIANAPOLIS

JACKSON

JACKSONVILLE

LOUISVILLE

LOS ANGELES

MEMPHIS

MIAMI

NOW YORK

OKLAHOMA CITY

OMAHA

FHILADELFHIA

-HOENTX

SI. LOUIS

SAN DIEGO

SAN FRANCISCO

SAVANNAH

SCATTLE

FNOM DIFECTOR

SEPTE BER 5, 1975

PERSONAL ATTENTION

1 - Mx. J. 'A. Mintz

1 - Mx. W. K. Wannall

1 - Mr.

W. 0. Cregar

1 - Mr. S. E. Phillips

(62-116395)

442P

SENSTUDY 75

REC-47

1921451.628

REBUILLS MAY 2, 1975, AND SEPTEMBER 4, 1975.

21. SEP 9. 1975

Assoc. Dir. —

Dep. AD Adm. -

Dep. AD inv. -

(6)

Asst. Dir.:

Admin.

Comp. Syst.-

Ext. Affairs -

Files & Cam. -

Gen. Inv.~

Ident. -

Inspection .

Intell. -

Laberatory

Plon. & Eval. -

Spoe. Inv.

Trainito) © SEP 1 71975

Legal Coon.

Telephone Rm. -

Director Sec'y -

MAIL ROOM L

TELETYPE UNIT LOS

WW 55158 DocId:32989610 Paren

NW 65994 Docld:32176842 Page 40

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HERE SIS SONNE

, ST-17U

SEE NOTE PAGE 9

GPO: 1975 0 - 569-920

---

## Page 41

PAGE 2

SENATE SELECI COMMITTEE (SSC) HAS REQUESTED WHEREABOUTS

OF A NUMBER OF FORMEL FBI IMPLOYEES INDICATING THEY MAY BE

INTERVIWWED BY THE SSC STAFT. LISIED BELOW, BY FIELD OFFICE

TERRITORY, ARE THESE FORMER EMPLOYEES AID THEIF LAST KNOWN

ADDRESSES AS CONTAINED IN BUREAU FILES.

INFONMATION FLOM SSC INDICATES NAMES OF FORMER SAS

LITNENTO AND STETART DEVELOPED AS HAVING BEEN RESFONSIBLE FOR

SUPENVISING COMMUNICATIONS BETIEEN THE FBI AND CIA CONCERNING

MAIL OPENING ACTIVITIES. ALL OTHERS IN LIST BELOW WERE EITHER

SAC, LSAC, OR BOTH, DUNING PERIOD 1959 - 1966 IN ONE OF MORE

OF THE FOLLOWING OFFICES: BOSTON, DETROIT, LOS ANGELES, FLAMI,

NEY YORK, SAN FRANCISCO, SEATTLE, AND VASHINGTON FIELD. THEY

PNESUMABLY ARE ALSO KNCHLEDGEABLE CONCERNING MAIL OFENINGS.

EACH OF THESE FORMEE EMPLOYEES IS TO BE IMMEDIATELY

CONTACTED AND ALERTED THAT HE MIGHT BE APPROACHED BY THE SSC

SIAFF FOR INTERVIEN. THE FORNER EMPLOYEE MAY, AFTER BEING

CONTACTED BY SSC SIAFF, CONTACI BUREAU'S LEGAL COUNSEL DIVISION

BY COLLECT CALL FOR FULL INFORMATICN TO ASSIST HIM INCLUDING

OBLIGATIONS AS TO CONFIDENTIALTIY OF INFOEMATION ACCUIRED AS

NW 65994 -Docld:32176842-Page 41 *

---

## Page 42

PAGE 3

FBI EMPLOYEE,

IT IS EMPHASIZED THAT BUREAU'S OFFER OF

ASSISIANCE IS NOI INTENDED TO IMPEDE SSC WOFK, BUT IS DONG

AS COOFETATIVE GESTURE AND TO SAFEGUARD SENSITIVE BUFRAU

INFORMATION.

CONTACIS WITH THESE FOMER ENFLOYEES TO BE HANDLED

PERSONALLY BY SAC OR ASAC. IN EVENT THIS IS NOT FEASIBLE

FOR JUSI CAUSE, TO BE HANDLED BY A SENIÓI SUPERVISOR.

IMMEDIATELY AFTER CONTACI, RESULTS SHOULD BE FINISHED

BUREAU BY NITEL IN ABOVE CAPTION, BRIEFLY INCLUDING REACTIOU

OF LOVER EXI-LOYEES CONTACTRO. IF A FORMCE EMPLOYDE NO

LONGER IN YOUT ICARITORY OF TENFOMIILY AVAY, SET OUI LEAD TO

OTHER OFFICE IMMEDIATELY WITH COPY TO FBINQ.

ALEXANDRIA:

I. DONALD SIBITARI, CRYSIAL HOUSE I, APARTMENI 202,

ARLINGTON, VIRGINIA

JAMES FI. GALE,

3307 ECCKY MOUNT TOAD, FATAFAX, VIRGINIA

THOMAS E. BISHOP, 8820 SIARK LOAD, ANNANDALE, VIEGINIA

NW 65994 'Docld:32176842-Page 42

---

## Page 43

PAGE 4

BALTIMORE:

ANTRONY P. LITRENTO, 2810 STONYBROOK DRIVE, BOWIE, MARYLAND

PAUL O'CONNELI, JR., 2417 STRATI N DRIVE, FOTOMAC, MARYLAND

DONALD I. EONEX, 131 CAMBRIDCE DRIVE, WINDSOI HILIS,

WILMINGTON, DELATARE

VICTOR TURYIT, 2645 TURF' VALLEY IOAD, ELLICOTT CITY,

MARYLAND

DUNALD T. MORLEY, BOX 222, NEW MARKEI, MARYLAND

BIRMINGHAM:

JORN DAVID FOPE, JR, 221 NEMINGION EOAD, BIFMIINGHARI,

ALABAMA

BUSTON:

LDO L. LAUGHLIN, 9 EVERETT AVENUE, WINCHESTER, MASSACHUSLITS

EDWARD J. POWERS, 10 COLONIAL DRIVE, BEDFORD,

NEW HAMPSHINE

J. F. DESHOND, 185 FRANKLIN SIREET, BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS

NW 65994* Docld:32176842 Page 43

---

## Page 44

PAGE 5

CHICAGO:

MARLIN W. JOHNSON, CANTEEN CORPORATION, THE MEIGHANDISE

MALI, CHICAGO, ILLINOIS

CINCINNATI :

HARVEY G. FOSTER, 1012 SOUTH HAMLIN, FARK RIDGE, ILLINOIS

PAUL FIELDS, 2677 CYCLORAMA DRIVE, CINCINNATI, OHIO

FANKY J. MORGAN, 5314 ELACREST LANE, CINCINNATI, OHIO

DALLAS:

PAUL HI. STODDARD, 3014 CHATTERION DRIVE, SAN ANGELO, TEXAS

KENNETH E.

COMTIONS, 2458 DOUGLAS DRIVE, SAN ANCELO, TEXAS

EL PASO:

KARL W. DISSLY, POST OFFICE BOX 9762, EL EASO, TEXAS

INDIANAPOLIS:

INDIANA

DILIARD I. MOTELL, 6413 CARDINAL LANE, TIDIANAPOLIS,

ALIST GILLIES, 8228 HCOVER LANE, INDIANAFOLTS, INDIANA

JACKSON:

WILLIALS W. BURKE, JR., 1847 AZTEC DRIVE, JACKSON,

MISSISSIPPI

NW 65994 Docld:32176842 Pâge 44

n----

---

## Page 45

PAGE 6

JACKSONVILLE:

DONALD K. BRUIT, 826 BROOKMONT AVENUE, LASI JACKSONVILLE,

FLORIDA

WILLIAM M. ALEXANDER, 4857 VATER OAK LANE, JACKSONVILLE,

FLONIDA

LOUISVILLE:

BETARD C. BIONI, 2301 NEMARKET DRIVE, N.E., LOUISVILLE,

KENTUCKY

LOS ANGELES:

WILLIAM G. SIMON, 2075 LOMBARDY FOAD, SAN MARINO,

CALIFOFVIA

WESLEY G. GRAPP, 4240 BON HOMME ROAD, HOODLAND HILLS,

CATIFOFNIA

TOLD C. LARSON, 4232 ABBINGION COURT, WESTLAKE VILLAGE,

CALIFORNIA

JOSEPH R. PONDER, 3719 CARRIAGE HOUSE COURT, ALEXANDRIA,

VIEGINIA. BUSINESS ADDRESS: 3030 SOUTH RED HILI AVENUE,

SANTA ANA, CALIFORNIA

NW 65994- Đocld:32176842-Page 45

---

## Page 46

PAGE 7

MEMPHIS:

E. HUGO WINTCLOUD, 1550 WORTH PARKAY, MIMHIS, TENNESSEE

MIAMI:

THOMAS MIC ANDRIMS, 324 NEAFOLITAN WAY, NAPLES, FLORIDA

FREDERICK I. FOX, 11450 . BISCAYNE CANAL ROAD, MIAMI,

- FLORIDA

NEN YORK:

JOSEPH I. SCIMIT, 656 HUNT LANE, MANHASSET, NETT YORK

HENRY A. FITZGIBBON, 76 EASION ROAD, BRONXVILLE, NET YORK

OKLAHONIA CITY:

JAMES I. MORELAND, 108 FERT DRIVE, POTLAU, OKLAHOMA

LEE O. TEACUL, 2501 N.F. 121ST STREET, OKLAHOMA CITY,

OKLAHOMA

OMAHA:

JOHN F. CALLAGHAN, IOWA LAN ENFORCEMENI ACADEMY,

CAMP DODGE, FOST OFFICE BOX 130,

JOHNSTON, IOWA

NW 85994 Docld:32176842-Page 46

---

## Page 47

PAGE 8

PHILADELPHIA:

RICHARD J. BAKER, 219 JEFFREY LANE, NEWTON SQUARE,

PINNSYLVANIA

JOHN I. MALONE, 25 GARFIELD AVENUE, CARBONDALE, PENNSYLVANIA

PHOENIX:

PALMET: M1. BAKEN, JR., 3832 LAST YUCCA SIRESI, FHOENIX,

ARIZONA

ST. LOUIS:

THOMAS J. GEARTY, 6630 CLAYTON ROAD 1105, FICHYOND HEIGHTS,

MISSOURI

WESLEY I. IH/LEY, 286 GREEN ITAILS DRIVE, CHESTERFIELD,

MISSOURI

SAN DIEGO:

FRANK I. FRICE, 2705 TORALON STREET, SAN DIEGO, CALIFORNIA

SAN FRANCISCO:

CURTIS O. LYNUM, 644 EAST HILLSDALE BOULEVARD,

SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA

HAROLD E. WELBOEN, 13067 LA VISIA COURI, SARATOGA;

CALIFORNIA

NW 65994 -Docld:32176842 Page 47 --

---

## Page 48

PAGE 9

SAVANNAH:

TROY COLEMAIT, 36 CROMTELI ROAD, WILMINGTON PARK,

SAVANNAH, GEORGIA

JOSEFH D. PURVIS, 721 DANCY AVENUE, SAVANNAH, GEOGIA

SEATILE:

LELAND V. BOARDIAN, ROUTE 3, BOX 268, SEQUIM, MASATHCION

RICHARD D. AUERBACH, P. O. BOX 1768, SEATTLE, WASHTNGION

JAMES I. MILNES, 4317 - 50TH AVENUE, N.E., SEATTLE,

WASHINGTON

FAUL R. BIBLER, 15134 - 38TH AVENUE, N.I., SEATTLE,

TASHINGION

NOTE:

Referenced Bureau teletypes furnished field general

background and instructions relating to our cooperation with

the SSC and procedures concerning interviews of current and

former employees. Former employees listed herein derived

from an SSC request dated 8/19/75, to which we have responded

by IHM 9/5/75 being furnished the SSC through the AG.

After

dispatch of instant teletype, ve will arrange for copies to

be filed in the respective personnel files of the former

employees listed.

NW 65994 -Docld:32176842-Page 48 -

==

---

## Page 49

Assoc. Dir. -

Dep.-A.D.-Adm

NROD3 BS CODED

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

1/1031978

TELETYPE

Dep.-A.D.-Inv_

Asst. Dir.:

Admin. -

Comp. Syst.

Ext. Affairs

Files & Com.

Gen. Inv. 1

Ident. -

Inspection

5:15PM NITEL SEPTEMBER 8, 1975

Intell. -

Laboratory

Plan. & Eval

0: DIRECTOR 62-116395

MDR-16

Spec. Inv. -

Training

FROM: BOSTON

66-4117

ALL IANFORMATION CONTAINED

Legal Coun

Telephone Bon

SEN STUDY 75.

DATE.

0720

Direcior Ber'y

• BY SALALATEL

REBUNITEL, PERSONAL ATTENTION, SAC'S ALEXANDRIA AND

SELECTED OFFICES, DATED SEPTEMBER 5, 1975 CAPTIONED AS

ABOVE.

ON SEPTEMBER 8, 1975, THE FOLLOWING FORMER FBI

EMPLOYEES WERE CONTACTED BY ASAC BOSTON AND PROVIDED

WISH PERTINENT INFORMATION FROM REFERENCED TELETYPE:

LEO Le

AUGHLINe EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR "THE IDD MASSACHUSETTS

CLUB, INC."

7 GLOUCESTER STREET, BOSTON, MASS., TELEPHONE

617-536-4410; EDWARD J. POWERS, EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR,

NE HAMPSHIRE SWEEPSTAKES

COMMISSION, BEDFORD, NEW HAMPSHIRE,

TELEPHONE 603-271-3391; J. F. DESMOND, GENERAL LITIGATION

ATTORNEY, NEW ENGLAND TELEPHONE AND TELEGRAPH COMPANY,

BOSTON, MASS., TELEPHONE 617-743-2323.

-REC-16

ST. 100

EACH FORMER EMPLOYEE CONTACTED INTERPOSED NO

12-.

152

OBJECTION TO CONTACT BY SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE; HOWEVER,

EACH STATED HE COULD NOI RECALL HAVING ANY KNOWLEDGE

SEP 16197

CONCERNING MAIL OPERNINGS AS DESCRIBED IN RETEL.

END

Taughter

5'"

1

SEP 1 8 19/5

171

DocIa: 32989644 Page 235

NW 65994 Docld:32176842 Page 49

Seemind

---

## Page 50

CODE

TELETYPE

Mr.

1 - Mr.

J. A.

W.

R.

Mintz

Wannall

NITEL

1

- Mr:

W:

0. Cregar

I'-

MK. J. P.

SEPTEMBER

thomas.

, 1976

TO SACS, ALEXANDRIA

ATLANTA

BOSTON

DETROIT

JACKSON

JACKSONVILLE

KNOXVILLE

LOS ANGELES

MEMPHIS

NEHARK

NEW YORK

RICHMOND

ST. LOUIS

SAN DIEGO

SEATTLE

PERSONAL ATTENTION

ALLINFOSMATION CONTAINED

FROM DIRECTOR, FBI (62-116395)

SENSTUDY 75

REBUTELS MAY 2, 1975, AND SEPTEMBER 4, 1975, TO ALL

OFFICES AND BUTELS SEPTEMBER 3, 1975, TO SELECTED OFFICES

INFORMING LATTER THAT SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE (SSC) HAD

REQUESTED IDENTITIES OF ALL SUPERVISORS AND COORDINATORS FOR

COINTELPROS IN SELECTED OFFICES FOR (1) NEW LEFT AND BLACK

EXTREMIST, 1967 THROUGH 197gT 10J (2) FOR WHITE FATE, 1964

THROUGH 1971.

REC-16 62 1459.716

SSC ALSO REQUESTED LOCATIONS OF PERSONS NAMED IN FIELD

RESPONSES TO REFERENCED SEPTEMBER 3, 1975, TELETYPES, AND

Assoc. Dir..

Dep. AD. Adm. -

LATEST INFORMATION IN FBIHQ FILES HAS BEEN FURNISHED TO SC.

Dep. AD inv. -

Asst. Dir.:

Admin..

Comp. Syst.-

UPT: bkb bKi:

Ext. Affairs

(6)

Files & Com.

Gen. Iny.

Ident.

Inspection

Intell. -

Laboratory

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

SEP 1 7 1975

115%

TELETYPE

112 SEP 19 1975

SEE NOTE, PAGE

Plan. & Eval. -

Spec. Inv.-

Training -

Legal Coun. =

Telephone Rm. _

5

TW 65994-Docid!324768924Page 50TELETYPE. UNZI

GPO 954-546

---

## Page 51

PAGE TWO

SENSTUDY

75

62-116395

SSC STAFF NAY CONTACT CURRENT AND/OR FORMER EMPLOYEES NAMED,

TO INTERVIEW THEM CONCERNING THEIR KNOWLEDGE OF COINTELPROS

IN WHICH THEY HAD SUPERVISORY OR COORDINATING RESPONSIBILITIES.

EACH OF THE FOLLOWING FORMER EMPLOYEES EXCEPT MESSRS.

CROKE AND MCMANUS IS TO BE CONTACTED IMMEDIATELY AND ALERTED

THAT HE MIGHT BE APPROACHED BY THE SSC STAFF FOR INTERVIEW.

THE FORLER EMPLOYEE MAY, AFTER BEING CONTACTED BY SSC STAFF,

CONTACT BUREAU'S LEGAL COUNSEL DIVISION BY COLLECT CALL FOR

FULI INFORMATION TO ASSIST HIM INCLUDING OBLIGATIONS AS TO

CONFIDENTIALITY OF INFORMATION ACQUIRED AS FBI EMPLOYEE. IT

IS EMPHASIZED THAT BUREAU'S OFFER OF ASSISTANCE IS NOT

INTENDED TO INPEDE SSC WORK, BUT IS DONE AS COOPERATIVE

GESTURE AND TO SAFEGUARD SENSITIVI BUREAU INFORMATION.

CONTACTS WITH THESE FORMER EMPLOYEES TO BE HANDLED

PERSONALLY BY SAC OR ASAC. IN EVENT THIS IS NOT FEASIBLE

FOR JUST CAUSE, TO BE HANDLED BY A SENIOR SUPERVISOR.

REGARDING FORMER SAS CROKE AND NCHANUS, SSC HAS BEEN

INFORMED OF THEIR FOOR PHYSICAL CONDITION AND REQUESTED TO

TAKE THIS INTO CONSIDERATION IN ANY ACTION CONTEMPLATED BY

SSC CONCERNING THEM. WE DO NOT, HOWEVER, KNOW THAT SSC WILL

NOT CONTACT THEM. NEW YORK OFFICE, IN COORDINATION WITH

NEWARK SHOULD ARRANGE TO HAVE CONTACT MADE WITH CROKE AND

NW 65994- Docid:32176842 Page 51

T..

---

## Page 52

PAGE THREE

SENSTUDY 75

62-116395

MCMANUS BY A FORMER ASSOCIATE TO MAKE FRIENDLY INQUIRY AS TO

THEIR CURRENT CONDITION. IT IS BEING LEFT TO DISCRETION OF

SAS NEW YORK AND NEWARE, BASED ON RESULTS OF SUCH INQUIRY,

WHETHER CROKE AND NCMANUS SHOULD BE INFORMED REGARDING

POSSIBLE CONTACT OF THEM BY SSC. FBIHQ DOES NOT DESIRE

THAT THEY BE UNDULY ALARMED, BUT WOULD NOT WANT THEM SURPRISED

BY CONTACT OF SSC STAFF IT THIS COULD IMPAIR THEIR EEALTH.'

INNEDIATELY AFTER CONTACI, RESULTS SHOULD BE FURNISHED

BUREAU BY NITEL IN ABOVE CAPTION, ATTENTION INID, W. O. CREGAR,

BRIEFLY INCLUDING REACTION OF FORMER EMPLOYEES CONTACTED. IF

A FORMER EMPLOYEE NO LONGER IN YOUR TERRITORY OR TEMPORARILY

AWAY, SET OUT LEAD TO OTHER OFFICE IMMEDIATELY, WITH COPY TO

FBIHQ.

ALEXANDRIA:

SETH F. EIKENBERRY, 5367 SUMMIT DRIVE, FAIRFAX, VIRGINIA

JESSE C. HALL, JR., 1535 EATEN PLACE, ALEXANDRIA, VIRGINIA

ATLANTA:

CARL E. CLAIBORNE, 1866 MARY LOU LANE, S.E., ATLANTA,

GEORGIA

RICHARD H. DAVIS, 1147 WILD CREEK TRAIL, ATLANTA, GEORGIA

CHARLES S. HARDING, 2243 PINECLIFF DRIVE, N. E., ATLANTA,

GEORGIA

NW 65994-Docld:32176842-Page 52 -

---

## Page 53

PAGE FOUR

SENSTUDY 75

62-116395

BOSTON:

MASSACHUSETTS

MASSACHUSETTS

RICHARD H. BLASSER, 129 ACADEMY AVENUE, WEYMOUTH,

FREDERICK M. CONNORS, 15 LONGFELLOW ROAD, MELROSE,

MICHAEL J. MCDONAGH, 28 SPRINGVALE ROAD, NORWOOD,

MASSACHUSETTS

JOHN E. NOONAN, 122 VERNON ROAD, 'SCITUATE, MASSACHUSETTS

DETROIT:

ROBERT F. O'NEILL, 2551 IRCQUOIS, DETROIT, MICHIGAN

JACKSON:

ROY &. MOORE, 1O7 SWALLOW DRIVE, BRANDON, MESSISSIPPI

JACKSONVILLE:

W. HERSHEL CAVER, 3714 NORIHWEST 40TH STREET, GAINESVILLE,

FLORIDA

KNOXVILLE:

LOS ANGELES:

CALIFORNIA

CALIFORNIA

IRVING R. ANDERSON, 1029 PERCH DRIVE, CONCORD, TENNESSEE

JOHN KEARNEY, 4140 MAYFIELD STREET, NEYBURY PARK,

RICHARD J. STILLING, 11648 ANESTOY STREET, GRANADA HILLS,

NWV 65994- Docld:32176842 Page 53 -

---

## Page 54

PAGE FIVE

SENSTUDY

75

62-116395

JOHN S. TEMPLE, 2145 GRENADIER, SAN PEDRO, CALIFORNIA

MEMPHIS:

PHILIP S. ENDRES, 22

SOUTH SECOND STREET, MEMPHIS,

TENNESSEE

NEWARK:

BENJAMIN P. MCMANUS, 25 MICHAEL STREET, 'ORDS, NEW JERSEY

NEW YORK:

THOMAS I, CROKE, JR, 15 HOFSTRA DRIVE, GREENLAWN, NEW YORK

JOHN J. DUNLEAVY, 10 SOUTEVIEW CT., CARLE PLACE, NEW YORK

JOSEPE H, GAMBLE, 24 GREYSTONE ROAD, ROCKVILLE CENTRE,

NEW YORK

RICHMOND:

CHARLES F. HEINER, 25 TWIN LAKE LANE, RICHMOND, VIRGINIA

RAIDOLPH E. TROW, 1702 RANCH DRIVE, RICHMOND, VIRGINIA

JOHN H. WAGNER, 8220 BARNINGHAM ROAD, RICHMOND, VIRGINIA

SAINT LOUIS:

JOHN J. BUCKLEY, 9469 HARALD DRIVE, WOODSON TERRACE,

MISSOURI

EDMUND C. WELTON, 825 DEANDELL. COURT, FERGUSON, MISSOURI

NW 65994 Docld:32776842^ Pâgé 54

---

## Page 55

PAGE SIX

SENSTUDY 75

62-116395

SAN DIEGO:

SEATTLE:

WASHINGION

ROBERT S. BAKER, 4268 HORTENSIA, SAN DIEGO, CALIFORNIA

LEROY W. SHEETS, 5725 72ND STREET, N. E., MARYSVILLE,

NOTE:

Bureau teletypes 5/2/75 and 9/4/75 furnished field

general background and instructions relating to our cooperation

with the SSC and procedures concerning interviews of current

and former employees. After dispatch of instant teletype,

we will arrange for copies to be filed in the respective

personnel files of

the former employees listed.

---

## Page 56

MEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

SEP 18 1975/

TELETYPE

Assoc. Dir.

Dep.-A.D.-Adma

Dep.-A.D.-Inv.

Asst. Dir.:

Admin.

Comp. Syst.

Ext. Affairs

Files & Com.

Gen. Inv. -

Ident.

NRODI AX PLAIN

3:03 PM URG

I SEPTEMBER

: 18, 1975 DKL

Plan. & Eval -

Spec. Inv. Ia:

Telephone Rui

Director Sec'y

TO :

DIRECTOR (62-116395)

(ATTENTION: INTD W. O. CREGAR)

BOSTON

4/23

FROM:

ALEXANDRIA (62-217) (RUC)

=

SENSTUDY, 1975.

REFERENCE BUREAU NITEL, SEPTEMBER' 17, 1975.

REFERENCED NITEL INSTRUCTED ALEXANDRIA EGNIACT JESSE CO

LOLL, JR. HALL CURRENTLY RESIDES POSE OFFICE BOR 142, NORTH NO.

TRURO, MASSACHUSETTS.

NEG-11 +2-713-755-749

UNCORCUNGNISAN LADENTSA

BOSTON HANDLE PER REFERENCED NITEL.

END.

#2. SEP 25 1975

+715E5

Ritas

CC-

67-HALL

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE 10/12/00

8 4 0CT 6 1975

WW 55225

DocId: 32989653 Page 355

NW 65994 Docld:32176842-Page 56

OCT ≥ 1975

---

## Page 57

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESIIGATION

Assoc. Dir.

Dep.-A.D.-Adm.

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

Dep.-AD-Inv. -

Asst. Dir:

NRO 11

SEP/68 1975

Admin.

Comp

Sust

BS CODE

Ext. Affairs

7: DOPM

NITEL / SEPTEMBER 18, 19TELETYPE

Files & Com.

Gen. Inv. .

Ident

10:

DIRECTOR

62-116395

Inspectigy

Lat Tarry

FROM:

BÓ STON

66-4117

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

Plan. & Eval. -

JATIN:

CREGAR

DARE 12/11.00 BYSPALME

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

Spec. Inv. ...

egal Cuune

Teléphone kim.

SENST UDY 75.

Director see's

REBUNITEL DATED SEPTEMBER 17, 1975, AND ALEXANORIA

UMRS

legar.

URGENT TELETYPE DATED SEPTEMBER ÍS, 1975 BOIN CAPTIONED AS

ABOVE.

RICHARD H. BLASSER, FREDERICK M. CONNORS, MICHAEL J•

ME DONAGH, ANDEJOHN FO NOONAN, ALL RESIDING GREATER BOSION

• AREA, AND JESSE C. HALL, JRO, PO BOX 142, NORIH IRIRO,

7 MASSACHUSETI Sy TELEPHONE 487-1633, CONTACTED SEPTEMBER 18,

=

17S BY ASAC, BOSTON.

91100

ALL FORMER FBI EMPLOYEES ADVISED OF PERTINENT

PORTIONS OF REFERENCED BUREAU NITEL. EACH EXPRES REC-SUPPORI

OGA BUREAU STATINE THEY VOLZO COOPERATE METH ANY SENT 62-116 325 134

SELECT COMMITTEE STAFF MEMBER IN THE EVENT THEY ARE CONTACTED

22 SEP 25.1975

IN FUTURE; HOWEVER, STATED THEY HAD BEEN AWAY FROM BUREAU

SO LONG THEY COULD NOT RECALL ANYTHING THEY BELIEVED TO BE

OF VALUE TO THE COMMITTEE.

END.

i lot

67=

Fifi

Blasser

concors

Nic Donagh

Hall

ACT & 1975

N8 1 ОCT 6 1975.

DocId: 32989653

Page 374

-NW-65994-Đoeld+32176842-Page-57

---

## Page 58

U. ¡UNICATIONS SECTION

SEP 2 31975

TELETYPE I

Assoc. Dir.

Đep.-A.D.-AdM.-

Dep.-A.D.-Inv.

Asst. Dir.:

Admin. -

Comp. Syst,

Ext. Aftairs

Files & com.

Gen. Inv. -

Ide:t.

In: nortion

Intell. --.

Laboratory

Plan. & Eval

Spec. Inv.

Trainice

Legal Coun

Telephor.:

Em.

Director Suc'y

NROD2 NY CODE

2:28 PM URGENT 9123/75 PJS

TO:

DIREGTOR, FBI (62-116395)

AND SAC, BOSION

ATIN:

SECTION CHIEF W. O. CREGAR

FROM:

SAC, NEW YORK (62-15065)

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

MIPT

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIZO

SENS TUDY-13.

RE BUREAU TEL, SEPTEMBER 157U DATE ALTOR ErSPALAC

1975, TO LA AND NY, WHICH

DIRECTED NY TO CONTAGI. FORMER SUPERVISOR JOHN KEARNEY WHO

SUPERVISED COINTELPRO-BLACK EXTREMISI CASES FROM 1968-70, AND

ALERT HIM TO SENSTUDY IN ACCORDANCE WITH INSTRUCTIONS IN

BUREAU TELETYPE, SEPTEMBER 17, 1975-

KEARNEY CAN BE CONTACTED AT WELLS FARGO COMPANY,

17

SPRINGFIELD, MASSACHUSETTS, TELEPHONE NUMBER 413-732-1122•

BOSTON REQUESTED TO CONTACT KEARNEY.

BOSTON HAS COPY OF BUREAU TELETE SET 12753415544

END.

=X-111

AUN FBIHQ CLR TU

er.

67-15605585

5080Є5.

NW 65994 Docld:32176842 Page 58

Page 314

---

## Page 59

F7

MAIDA CATIOUS SECTION

* SEP 24: 1975

NR003

BS CODE

18:40AM

TALEIVED

NITEL : 9/24/15

MMA

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI (62-116395) ATT: INID, W.O. CREGAR

BOSTON (66-4117>

gROM: SAC,

SENSTUDY 75

Asso

Dir..

Dep. A.D.-Adm...

Dep...I.D.-InV._

Asst. fir.:

Admis

Comp. Syst.

Ext. A.J irs

Files de

dim.

-

Gen. Inv.

Ident.

Inspection

Intell.

--.

Labura:.ry

Plan. & Rival

Telephone Rin. ~

Diregtur Sid'y

10 Сківн

toile

4123 TA

-966:

RENYIEL TO DIRECTOR AND BOSTON, SEPTEMBER

23, 1975,

REGARDING CONTACT OF FORMER SUPERVISOR JOHN KEARNEY.

REARNEY TODAY CONTACTED SAC, BOSTON, WHO ALERTED

KEARNEY TO SENSTUDY IN ACCORDANCE WITH INTRUCTIONS IN BUTEL

SEPTEMBER 17, 1975.

VENG FBIHQ ACK FORONE TEL CLR TU

EX-108

lie Kearney

ALLE FORMATION COMAINED

Hands iowagstria

62-114-393-168

12 SẸP 29 1975

6C1-

B.

4 ОСТ 2 0 1975

NS 55225

DocId: 32989653 Page 306

NW 65994 Docld:32176842 Page 59

---

## Page 60

NR 753 WA PLAIN

1023PM NITEL 9/26/75 PMJ

TO ALL SACS

FROM DIRECTOR

LEGAL ADVICE FOR PRESENT OR FORMER BUREAU EMPLOYEES.

IN RESPONSE TO OUR REQUEST, THE ATTORNEY

GENERAL ADVISED THAT LEGAL REPRESENTATION FOR EMPLOYEES WOULD

RE MADE AVAILABLE FOR PRELIMINARY ADVICE. SHOULD CASES ARISE

WHERE A FORMER OR PRESENT EMPLOYEE REQUIRES MORE PROTRACTED

AND SUBSTANTIAL LEGAL REPRESENTATION, IT IS THE POSITION OF THE

DEPARIMENI THAT SPECIAL COUNSEL MAY BE RETAINED FOR SUCK

EMPLOYEES AT DEPARIMENT EXPENSE. GUIDELINES ARE BEING

DRAWN BY THE DEPARTMENT TO GOVERN THESE MATTERS.

HOWEVER, SHOULD THE DEPARIMENT SUBSEQUENTLY CONCLUDE THAT

SUCH CASES INVOLVE MATTERS OUTSIDE THE SCOPE OF A PRESENT OR

FORMER EMPLOYEE'S DUTIES, OTHER CONSIDERATIONS WOULD APPLY.

ALL LEGAIS ADVISED SEPARATELY.

END.

HOLD

all aft Comp - %s

None

lee.

all

poute;

anglozes

65=1623

: 1975

ASAC

NW 65994~ Docld:32176842 Page'60

---

## Page 61

CODE

1 - MIN

TELETYPE

Johnson

IMMEDIATE

TO SAC, NEW YORK

BOSTON

NOVEMBER 17, 1975

FROM DIRECTOR, FBI (62-116395)

SEASTUDY 75.

IN RESPONSE TO A REQUEST OF THE SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE

(SSC) YOU ARE REQUESTED TO SEARCH YOUR FILES FOR THE FOLLOWING

INFORMATION.

1. ALI MATERIALS PERTAINING TO THE OPENING OF MAIL, TO

OR FROM GILBERT STUART AND VIRGINIA R. STUART DURING THE YEARS

1960 AND 1961 BY FBI AGENTS IN OR AROUND THE CITIES OF

NEW YORK AND PROVIDENCE, RHODE ISLAND. (THIS REQUEST

ENCOMPASSES MATERIALS LOCATED IN FBI HEADQUARTERS, THE NEW YORK

FIELD OFFICE AND RESIDENT AGENCY IN PROVIDENCE, RHODE ISLAND) •

SUTEL, RESULTS OF YOUR REVIEW EXPEDITIOUSLY.

JWJ :lij

(3)

NOTE:

ALL INFORMATION CONTAMIED

LETE 12-210

SSC request dated 11/7/75 requested the above

investigation be conducted and results submitted expeditiously

REC+1 62-4435-4054

ST. 10€

15 NOV 1 9 1975

Assoc. Oir.

Dep. AD Adm. -

Dep. AD Inv. -

Asst. Dir.:

Admin.

Comp. Syst, _

Ext. Affairs

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

Files & Com. -

Gen. Inv. —

Ident. -

Inspection -

Intell. -

Laboratory

NOV 1 7 1975

815-

FELETYPLOP

Plan. & Eval. -

Spoc.Inv.-

Training

Legal Coun.

Telephone Rm, -

NO 63d 978602-Page 61B

TELETYPE UNIT TA

Gid!

GPO: 1975 0 - 568-920

---

## Page 62

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATIO..

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

NOV 1 8 1975

TELETYPE

NROUZ

BS CODE

8ISK AM

IMNEDIATE

NOVEMBER 18, 1975

RCM

TO: DIRECTOR

62-116395

ERON: BOSTON

66-4117

SENSTUDY 75.

RE BUIEL NOVEMBER 17, 1975.

BOSTON INDICES CONTAIN NO REFERENCES TO VIRGINIA

R. STUART.

Assoc, Dir,

Dep.-A.D.-Adtite

Asst. Dir.:

Admin..

Comp. Syst.

Ext: Affairs

Files & Coma.

Gen, Iny. -

Ident.

Inspection -

Laboratory

Plan. & Eval -

Spec. Inv.

Training

Legal Coul. -

Telephone Rile in

Director Sec'y

- BOSION FILES INDICATE GILBERT STUART, 28 PLANET

7

SIREEI, PROVIDENCE, RHODE ISLAND, WAS INTERVIEWED BY

QUAGENTS ON FEBRUARY 17, 1954 AT WHICH TIME HE FURNISHED

INFORMATION IN THE OWEN LATIIMORE, ESP-R, PERJURY

CASE, DUFILE 1UN-24628 STUART LATER BY LEITER TO

THE BOSTON OFFICE OF THE FBI DATED MARCH 18, 1954,

FURNISHED A LIST OF PERSONS WHO HE ALLEGED HAD •

DIRECT CONTACT WITH LATTIMORE.

EX-I15

REG-45 62-114: 215-1078

• BOSTON FILES DO NOT CONTAIN ANY. MATERIAL PERTAINING

15 NOV 24 1975

TO OPENING OF MAIL TO OR FROM GILBERT STUARI OR

'VIRGINIA R. STUART.

END

MSY FBIHO

662-116395

ALL ITFORINALION CONTAILD)

moR-14

8 4 NOV 2 5 1975

NW 55079 - DoeId: 32989536

Page 167

NW 65994 Docld:32176842 Page 62

---

## Page 63

Mr. Church's

By William Safire

WASHINGON, Nov. 19-On Oct. 10,

1963, the then-Attorney General of the

United States put his personal signa-

ture on a document that launched and

legitimatized one of the most horren-

dous abuses of Federal police power in

this century.

In Senator Frank Church's subcom-

mittee hearing room

this week,

the

authorized

wiretapping

and subse-

quent unauthorized bugging and at-

tempted blackmailing of Martin Luther

King Ji. is being gingerly examined,

with the "investigation" conducted in

such a way

as

not to unduly em-

barrass officials of

the Kennedy or

Johnson Administrations.

With great care, the committee has

focused on the F.B.I. Yesterday, when?

the committee counsel first set forth

the result of shuffling through press

clips, it seemed as if no Justice De-!

partment had existed in 1962; today,

an F.B.I. witness pointed out that it

was Robert Kennedy who authorized

the wiretap of Dr. King, and that "the

President of the United States and the

Altorney General specifically discussed

their concern of Communist influence

with Dr. King."

But the Church committee showed

no zest for getting further to the Ken-

nedy root of this precedent to Water-

gate eavesdropping. If Senator Church

were willing to let the chips fall where

they may, he would call some knowl-

edgeable witnesses into the glare of

the camera lights and ask them some

questions that have gone unasked for

• thirteen years.

For example, he could call Nicholas

Katzenbach, Attorney General Ken-

nedy's deputy and successor, and ask

what he knows of the Kennedy de-

cision to wiretap Dr. King.

Justice concurred in the recommenda-

tion? How does the F.B.I. know the 1

President was consulted or informed?

After Mr. Katzenbach assumed of-

fice, and the wiretapping continued, i

he was told by angry newsmen that

the F.B.I. was leaking scurrilous in-

formation about Dr. King. Why did he

wait for four months, and for a thou.

sand telephonic interceptions, to dis

continue the officially approved tap?

Of course, this sort of testimony

would erode Senator Church's political

base. That is why we do not see for-

trier Assistant F.B.I. dircelor Cartha

(Icke)

Deleach,

Lyndon

Johnson's

personal contact with the F.B.I. in the

witness chair.

What did President

Johnson know about the character-

assascination plot and when did he

know it? What conversations took

place betwaen Mr. Deioach and Presi

dent Johnson on the sapping rif lor.

King, or about the lse of the F.B.I. in

any alier intrusions into the lives oi

NW 65994 ~Docld:32176842 Page 63

Lover-Up

Ine committee is not asking embar-

rassing questions even when answers

avallable. A couple of

weeks ago, at an open

F.B.I. man inadvertently started

blurt out an episode about newsmen

who were weritapping in

the apparent knowledge of Attorney

General Kennedy. The too-willing wit!

ness was promptly shooshed into st

lence, and told that such information

session. Nobody raised an eyebrow.

That pattern of containment by the

Church committee is vividly shown by

the handling of the buggings at the

1964 Republican and Democratic con-

ESSAY

ventions which were ordered by Lyn-

don Johnson. Such invasions of politi-

cal headquarters were worse than the

crime committed at Watergate, since

they involved the use of

but the Church investigators seem to

be determined not to probe too deeply.

If F.B.I. documents say that reports

were made to specific Johnson aides,

are those men not given the

same opportunity to publicly tell their

dent's men? If Lyndon. Johnson com-

mitted this impeachable high crime of

using the F.B.I. to spy on political,

opponents, who can be brought foi-

ward to tell us all about it?

But that would cause embarrass-

ment to

Democrats,

and

Church wants to embarrass profes-

sional

employees

of

investigatory

agencies only. A new sense of Con-

gressional decorum exists, far from

the sense of outrage expressed in the

Senate Watergate

committee's

hear-

ing room. When it is revealed that the

management of NBC News gave press

credentials to L.B.J.'s spies at the 1964

convention, everybody blushes demure-

yand nobody demands to knov

which network executive made what.

decision under what pressure.

I have been haranguing

patient

readers for years about the double

standard applied

to Democratic and

Republican political crimes, and had

hoped the day would come when the

hardball precedents see by the Ker-

neav and Johnson men would be isid

before the public in damning detail.

Obviously, Democrat Frank Church

is not the man

shaking indignation is ail

tive; the trail of high-level responsi-

bility for the crimes committed against

Dr. King and others is evicientiy going

to be allowed to cook.

Pity. You'd think that alier ail

nation has bren through in the past

fely years, our political leaders kould!

nave learned that the one thing that

brings you doin is the art di cover-

1. SAC

2. ASAC

3. Sec. Supvr._

4. Desk 4 BRe

5. Desk 5.

6. Desk 6_

7. KASHMI

THE NEW YORK TIMES

THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 20th, 1975

PAGE C-41

---

## Page 64

NROS& WA PLAIN

8:05PM NITEL 12/10/75 GHS

TO ALL SACS

FROM DIRECTOR

DIRECIOR'S APPEARANCE BEFORE SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE

ON INTELLIGENCE ACTIVIIIES. DECEMBER 10,

*1975

A COPY OF THE STATEMENT I DELIVERED BEFORE THE SENATE

SELECT CULMITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES TODAY HAS BEEN

SENT ALL OFFICES. FOR YOUR INFORMATION, THERE FOLLOWS A

SYNOPSIZED ACCOUNT OF THE FAJOR AREAS OF THE COMMITTEE'S

QUESTIONS TO ME, TOGETHER

WITH MY RESPONSES:

•(1) REGARDING FBI INFORMANIS, QUESTIONS WERE ASKED

WHETHER COURT APPROVAL SHOULD BE REQUIRED FOR FBI USE OF

INFORMANTS IN INVESTIGATIONS OF ORGANIZATIONS (MY RESPONSE

WAS THAT THE CONTROLS WHICH EXIST

TODAY OVER USE OF INFORiANIS

ARE SATISFACIORY); HOW CAN FBI KEEP INFORMANIS OPERATING

WITHIN PROPER LIMITS SO THEY DO NOT INVADE RIGHTS OF OTHER

PERSONS (HY RESPONSE WAS THAT RELIANCE MUST BE PLACED ON THE

INDIVIDUAL AGENTS HANDLING INFORMANTS AND THOSE SUPERVISING

THE AGENIS' WORL, THAT INFORMANIS WHO VIOLATE THE LAW CAN BE

1. SAC_

2. ASAC_

3: Sec. Supur, Epir

Agorn your

susannel!

116385-

4. Bosk 4_0

NO MEN

5. Bask 5_

6. Desk 6 Roblem

F. LONG

WW. 85994-Dold:321788124566 (rie?)

FaiT

SAC (KAST)

-1178

---

## Page 65

PAGE TWO

PROSECUTED - AS CAN ANY AGENT WHO COUNSELS AN INFORMANT TO

COMMIT VIOLATIONS) ; AND DID FORMER KLAN INFORMANT GARY ROWE

TESTIFY ACCURATELY WHEN HE TOLD THE COMMITTEE ON DECEMBER 2

THAT HE INFORMED FBI OF PLANNED ACTS OF VIOLENCE BUT FBI

DID NOT ACT TO PREVENT THEM CMY RESPONSE WAS THAT ROWE'S

TESTIMONY WAS NOT ACCURATE) •

(2) IN RESPONSE TO QUESTIONS REGARDING IMPROPER

CONDUCI BY FBI EMPLOYEES, I STATED THAT ALLEGED VIOLATIONS OF

LAW BY FBI PERSONNEL SHOULD BE INVESTIGATED BY THE FBI OR

OTHER APPROPRIATE AGENCY; THAT THE INSPECTION DIVISION HAS

CONDUCTED INQUIRIES REGARDING ALLEGATIONS OF MISCONDUCT;

THAT AN OFFICE OF PROFESSIONAL RESPONSIBILITY HAS JUST

BEEN ESTABLISHED IN THE JUSTICE DEPARTMENT, AND WE WILL ADVISE

THAT OFFICE OF OUR MAJOR INVESIIGATIONS OF DEPARIMENIAL PERSONNEL,

INCLUDING FBI EMPLOYEES, FOR ALLEGED VIOLATIONS OF LAW, REGULATIONS,

OR STANDARDS OF CONDUCI; THAT I WOULD RESERVE COMMENT

REGARDING POSSIBLE CREATION OF A NATIONAL INSPECIOR GENERAL

TO CONSIDER MATTERS OF MISCONDUCT BY EMPLOYEES OF ANY FEDERAL

AGENCY.

NW 65994^ Docld:32176842 -Page 65 -

---

## Page 66

PAGE THREE

(3) IN RESPONSE TO QUESTIONS CONCERNING HARASSMENT OF

MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR., I STATED THAT THE PERSONS WHO ISSUED

THE ORDERS WHICH RESULTED IN SUCH HARASSMENT SHOULD FACE THE

RESPONSIBILITY FOR IT, RATHER THAN THOSE UNDER THEM WHO CARRIED

OUT SUCH ORDERS IN GOOD FAITH; THAT THE FBI STILL HAS RECORDINGS

RESULIING FROM ELECIRONIC SURVEILLANCES OF KING; THAT WE RETAIN

RECORDINGS FOR TEN YEARS BUT WE ALSO HAVE AGREED TO A REQUEST

FROM THE SENATE NOT TO DESTROY INFORMATION IN OUR FILES WHILE

CONGRESSIONAL INQUIRIES ARE BEING CONDUCTED; IHAT I HAVE NOT

REVIEWED THE KING TAPES; THAT IF THE COMMITTEE REQUESTED TO

REVIEW THE KING TAPES, THE REQUEST WOULD BE REFERRED TO THE

ATTORNEY GENERAL.

(4) IN RESPONSE TO QUESTIONS REGARDING WHETHER IT WOULD

BE ADVANTAGEOUS TO SEPARATE THE FBI CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIVE

RESPONSIBILITIES AND OUR INTELLIGENCE FUNCIIONS, I STATED

THAT WE HAVE FOUND THE TWO AREAS IO BE COMPATIBLE, AND I

FEEL THE FBI IS DOING A SPLENDID JOB

IN BOTH AREAS.

(5) IN RESPONSE TO QUESTIONS CONCERNING INE ADEQUACY

OF CONTROLS ON REQUESTS FROM THE WHITE HOUSE AND FROM OTHER

GOVERNMENI AGENCIES FOR FBI INVESTIGATIONS OR FOR INFORMATION

NW 65994 Döcld:32176842 Page 66. -

---

## Page 67

PAGE FOUR

FROM OUR FILES, I STATED THAT WHEN SUCH REQUESIS ARE MADE

ORALLY, THEY SHOULD BE CONFIRMED IN WRITING; THAT WE WOULD

WELCOME ANY LEGISLATIVE GUIDELINES THE CONGRESS FEELS WOULD

PROTECT THE FBI FROM THE POSSIBILITY OF PARTISAN MISUSE •

A FULL TRANSCRIPT OF THE QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS WILL BE

FURNISHED TO EACH OFFICE AS SOON AS IT IS AVAILABLE.

ALL LEGAIS ADVISED SEPARATELY.

END

DI B FBI BUFFALO FOR TWO AND CLEAR

NW 65994-Docld:32176842 Page 67 -

---

## Page 68

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

TELETYPE

NR 7.06

RS, PLAIN

8: 00PM

NITEL

ANUADY 8, 1976 MGC

TO : DIPECTOR

ROSTON

ATIN:

LINTD,

SENSTInY 75.

0. CREGAP

Agsoc. Dir.

Dep.-A.D.-Adm

Dep.-A.D.-Inv.

Asst. Dir.:

Admin. -

Comp. Syst.

Ext. Affairs

Files & Com.

Gen. Inv. -

Ident.

ntell ti

Pil Defe

Laboratory

Plan.

& Eval -

Spec. Inv. -

Training

Legal Coun

Telephone Ran. -

Director Suc'y

MR. POENS.

106=

BE BUREAU TELEPHONE, CALL TO BOSTON JANTARY 8, 1976.

MO. LAIRENCE P. LENNAN, 6 LISA RETH DRIVF, DOVER, NE!'

HAMPCHIDE, 1393E, TELEPHONE 693-749-9365, CONTACTED JANUARY 9,.

1976 AND HAS ADVISFD OF CAPTIONED GROUP'S DESIRE TO INTERVIE

HIM. "FENAN INVITED TO CONTACI FRIHO, OFFICE OF LEGAL 'COUNSEL,

BY COLLECT TELEPHONE CALL FOLLOWING CONTACI RY SENSTUDY TO

ESOLUF ANY QUESTION OF CONFIDENTIALITY. VEEMAN EXPPESSED VERY :

COOPFRATIVE ATTITUDE AND STATED HE HAD NO OBJECTION TO SUCH AN

INTERVIN AND WOULD CALL FRIHA IF CONTACTED.

FND.

ST. 115.

REGIN LETS - 1257

5 JAN 15 1976

67-473513 (Keenan)

ALL INEORMATION CONTAINED

DATEL

ANIS

5'

8A JAN 2 0

cIl. 92989562

Page 18

NW 65994 Docld:32176842

Page 68

---

## Page 69

PLAINTEXT

TELETYPE

NITEL

1

1

TO SAC BOSTON

MDR 16

..

FROM DIRECTOR

FBI.

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

1

2-23-76

- Mr. Walsh

Mr.

Mintz

Mr. Wannall

Mr. Cregar

- Mr. Hotis

Mr. Daly

HEREIN S UNCLASSIFIED

SSENGTUDY 75

DATE 41/8/0D BY 3P8 ALm/EHL

REBUCAL 2-23-76.

THE SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE HAS REQUESTED THAT

SA FRANCIS T. LEONARD BE MADE AVAILABLE IN WASHINGTON, D. C..

FOR INTERVIEW BY THAT COMMITTEE ON 2-25-76. THE INTERVIEW

WILL CONCERN HIS KNOWLEDGE OF THE BUREAU'S INVESTIGATION

OF MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR., THE SOUTHERN CHRISTIAN

LEADERSHIP CONFERENCE, AND STANLEY DAVID LEVISON. SA LEONARD

SHOULD ARRANGE TO ARRIVE IN WASHINGION IN TIME TO

REC-50

62 - 1763,13

23

BRIEFED BY REPRESENTATIVES OF THE LEGAL COUNSEL DIVISION

DO FEB 21 19760

AND INTELLIGENCE DIVISION AT 9:00 A.M., 2-25-76, IN

ROOM 3658, JEH BUILDING.

ST 104

"EDERAL BUREAU OF INVERUSAL

SUMMUNICATIONS SECTION

FEH 29 1970

1 - Personnel File SA Francis T.. Leonard

1000P SSI

TELETYPE

NOTE: Michael Epstein, Senate Select Committee staff

member, made the request for the interview of Leonard.

This communication will serve as approval for the waiver

of existing employment agreement signed by SA Leonard for

purposes of this interview.

Referenced phone callialerted

ASAC Richard Strain of this rèquest.

HER 53 0 00 31101E

Assoc. Dir.

Dep.

AD

Adm. a

Dep.

AD inv. -

Asst.

Dir.:

Admin.

Comp. Syst. -

Ext. Affairs

Files & Com._

Gen. Inv..

Ident.

Inspection.

Intell.

Laboratory

Plan. & Eral.a.

PVD: dkg (10).

Spoc. Inv. -

Training

Legal Coun.

Telephone Rm.

NWI65994-Deafd:32176842 Bage 692 _TELETYPE UNIT C

pur

GPO : 1875 %

---

## Page 70

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Boston; Massachusetts

March 2, 1976

DECLASSI

07 11=8-00

SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES (SSC)

INTERVIEW OF SPECIAL AGENT FRANCIS. T. LEONARD BY SSC STAFF

MEMBER MICHAEL EPSTEIN

A. M., Special Agent Francis I. Leonard, who is currently

assigned to the Boston Division, met with SSC Staff Member

Michael Epstein in a room on the sixth floor of the Old Senate

Office Building, Washington, D. C.

Special Agent Leonard was not provided with a warning

as to his rights nor was he placed under oath at the outset of

the interview.

The only two occupants of the room at the outset of

this interview were Leonard and Epstein. Epstein ascertained

from Leonard that he had entered on duty as a Special Agent

with the FBI on August 6, 1951, and had been assigned to the

of the United States.

Epstein inquired as to what role Leonard played in the

investigation of one Stanley David Levison. Leonard replied that

he was the case Agent of the Stanley David Levison investigation

during the late 1950s and early 1960s although he could not be

sure of the exact years because of the extensive period of time

that has elapsed since he was involved in that investigation.

Epstein queried Leonard as to his recollection of how he

became

the case Agent in the Levison case, and Leonard replied that to

the best of his recollection, the Levison case was reopened and

assigned to him based on new information that Levison was a

secret member of the Communist Party of the United States (CPUSA).

This document contains neither

recommendations nor conclusions

of the FBt. It is the properly

of the FBi and is loaned tu your

agency; it and its contents are

not to be distibuted outside

your agency.

NW 65994* Docld:32176842 -Page 70

SECRET

Classified by_

047

Exemptfrom GDS, bategory.

2

Date of Declassification Indefinite

INCLOSURE

1a.2

1i:7=1511

---

## Page 71

SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES (SSC)

INTERVIEW OF SPECIAL AGENT FRANCIS T. LEONARD BY SSC STAFF

MEMBER MICHAEL EPSTEIN

At this point Epstein stated wasn't it in fact Levison's

association with Martin Luther King, Jr., that led to the

reopening of the case and Leonard replied that he was positive

that was not the reason for the reopening of the case but

rather information regarding Levison's activities with the

Epstein inquired as to specifically what these

activities of Levison's were and leonard refused to reveal

them because he

felt that by so doing, he may jeopardize the

security of a highly reliable source of the Bureau that had

furnished the information regarding Levison.

Leonard further

explained that he felt this

would be in violation of the agree-

ment between the

Bureau and the Committee if he should reveal

this information.

Epstein then showed Special Agent Leonard a memorandum

bearing his name to the SAC, New York, dated August 22, 1962:

entitled Stanley David Levison and asked Leonard if he recalled

the memo. Special Agent Leonard stated that he did not recall

the memo

but that undoubtedly it was

his memo and appeared to

be a

characterization of Stanley David Levison.

Epstein then

inquired as to what the procedure was

for formulating such a

characterization and it was explained to him by Special Agent

Leonard to the best of his knowledge. At this point Epstein

stated that he would prefer to continue the

interview with the

presence of a court stenographer and asked if Special Agent

Leonard had any objection to that: Special Agent Leonard

replied that he had no objection to a court stenographer being

present. At this point the interview was terminated at approxi-

mately 11:05 A.M.

The interview was resumed at 11:25 A. M. in the same

noom with the

court stenographer present and all the informa-

tion discussed in the first interview was repeated for the

benefit of the court stenographer up to and including the dis-

cussion regarding the characterization of Stanley David Levison

dated August 22, 1962. At that point in the second interview,

Epstein held up

a report on Martin Luther King, Jr., written

by Special Agent John Elliott of the New York Office. Epstein

asked Leonard if he knew Elliott and he replied that he did. He

did not make the report available to Leonard but Epstein then

2

NW 65994-Docld:32176842-Page 71 *-

---

## Page 72

RET

SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES (SSC)

INTERVIEW OF SPECIAL AGENT FRANCIS T. LEONARD BY SSC STAFF

MEMBER MICHAEL EPSTEIN

asked Leonard if he was aware of any relationship between

Stanley David Levison and Martin Luther King prior to Leonard.

being assigned the case Agent of the Levison

investigation.

Leonard replied that he was not. At this point Epstein

referred to page 17 of Elliott's report and gave the follow-

ing four dates:

December 26, 1956; September 24, 1958;

January 18, 1959; and

May 6,

1960; on which it was reported

by sources of the FBI that there was a relationship between

Stanley David Levison and Martin Luther King, Jr.

At this point Epstein produced another memorandum

written by Special

Agent Leonard

to the SAC, New York, dated

July 26, 1963, which was another characterization of

Stanley

David Levison

stating that he was a secret member of the CPUSA:

Epstein asked Leonard if he recalled writing such a memorandum

replied that although he did not recall it, obviousiy

it was

a memorandum

written by himat that time. Again Epstein

and Leonard discussed the administrative procedure that would

be used by the New

York Office to make up a characterization

regarding an individual.. During this portion of

versation, Epstein asked Leonard if he knew the identity of

the Agent

who handled the highly reliable source that was

used to characterize Stanley David Levison.

Leonard stated

that he did know the identity of the Agent but refused to

disclose it because by so doing it could lead to the identifica-

tion of this highly reliable source of information.

At this

point Epstein asked

Leonard what he meant when

he said Levison

member of the Communist Party and Leonard pointed

out to Epstein that it was not leonard but the source of this

information who described Levison as a secret member of the

Communist Party and that Leonard was merely repeating that for

the purpose of making a characterization of Levison.

Epstein

then asked Leonard, what his definition was of a secret member

of the CP and Leonard said he could only give his own definition

because he was not aware of the criteria that Bureau headquarters

or the New York Office would have for such a definition. Epstein

stated that he desired Leonard to give his own definition which

he furnished as follows:

- 3-

NW-65994-Docld+32176842-Page-72

---

## Page 73

'SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES (SSC)

INTERVIEW OF SPECIAL AGENT FRANCIS I. LEONARD BY SSC STAFF

MEMBER MICHAEL EPSTEIN

1. An individual that would not openly take

part in any CPUSA function such as a national

convention or state or district convention.

2.

An individual who would not be carried on any

membership list.

3.. Not to be a card carrying member of the CP.

4. Not to be publicly associated with any known

members of the CP, socially or otherwise.

Leonard further stated that a secrèt member would be an

individual who adhered to and supported the principle of the

CPUSA, that is, to overthrow the United States Government by

force and

violence and that a secret member would make a

contribution to the CPUSA

in order that they could accomplish

that goal whether it be financial or otherwise.

Epstein then asked if the FBI made any effort to

establish Stanley David Levison's connection with the CPUSA

other than that which was furnished by the highly reliable

source referred to earlier in this memorandum.

Leonard

stated

that there was a constant effort made by physical surveillances

and contact with other sources of information to determine

relationship between Stanley Levison and other CP members.

Epstein asked if Leonard participated in any physical surveillances

of Stanley Levison and Leonard stated that he did recall taking

part in such physical surveillances but could not recall the

results of these surveillances.

Epstein and Leonard then discussed memoranda regard

ing technical surveillances of Stanley David Levison in very

general terms. Epstein asked if Leonard could recall any

evidence of Stanley Levison influencing the civil rights movement

at the direction of

the CPUSA and Special Agent Leonard answered

that he could not.

The interview was terminated with two last questions,

one regarding the fact that if Special Agent Leonard had

SECRET

-4-

NW 65994-Đocld:32176842 Page 73. *-

---

## Page 74

SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES: (SSC)

INTERVIEW OF SPECIAL AGENT FRANCIS T. LEONARD BY SSC STAFF

MEMBER MICHAEL EPSTEIN

knowledge that microphones were installed at one time or another

in the hotel rooms of Martin Luther King and Leonard answered

that he had recollection of general information to that effect

and, secondly, did Special Agent Leonard know William Sullivan

(presumably former Assistant Director William Sullivan) and

Special Agent Leonard replied his only personal relationship

with Sullivan was when Sullivan lectured to Leonard's training

class in 1951.

The interview was terminated at approximately 1:35 P.M.

on february 27, 1976.

This document contains neither recommendations nor

conclusions of the FBI.

loaned to your agency; it and its contents are not to be diss

i send ne

It is the property of the FBI

tributed outside your agency.

NW 65994-Docld:32176842 Page 74 *

---

## Page 75

FD-36 (Rev. 2-14*74)

Transmit the following in -

AIRTEL

Via

FBI

Date: 3/2/76

(Type in plaintext or code)

(Precedence)

#m0R16

ALL INTORMATION COITAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE 118100 BYSPAALM FIE

TO:

SUBJECT:

DIRECTOR, FBI (Attention: INTD - S. F. PHILLIBS)

SAC, BOSTON (66-4117)

SENSTUDY 7.5

ReButel to Boston 12/23/75 informing that the Senate

Select Committee (SSC) had requested SA FRANCIS I. LEONARD be

made available for interview by that committee.

Enclosed herewith is the original and eight copies of

an LHM reflecting SA LEONARD's interview by SSC Staff Member

MICHAEL EPSTEIN in Washington, D. C., on: 2/27/76.

?

Bureau (Encs. 9)

Boston

FIL/bbr

(3)

6a-116314511

п0177A7

14 MAR 29 1276

Local

Approved:

Special Agent in Charge

NW 65994 Docld:32176842-Page 75

Sent _

M

Per

---

## Page 76

Routing Slip

0-7 (Rev. 12-17-73)

TO: SAC:

Albany

Albuquerque

Alexandria

Anchorage

Atlanta

Baltimore

Birmingham

Boston

Buffalo

Butte

Charlotte

Chicago

Cincinnati

Clevel and

Columbia

Dallas

Denver

Detroit

El Paso

Honolulu

Houston

Indianapolis

Jackson

Jacksonville

Kansas City

Knoxville

Las Vegas

Little Rock

Los Angeles

Louisville

Memphis

Miami

MILWaUKe

Minneapolis

Mobile

Newark

New Haven

New Orleans

New York City

Norfolk

RE: SENSTUDY 75

(Copies to

es Checked)

Oklahoma City

Omaha

Philadelphia

Phoenix

Pittsburgh

Portland

Richmond

Sacramento

St. Louis

Salt Lake City

San Antonio

San Diego

San Francisco

San Juan

Savannah

Seattle

Springfield

Tamp a

Washington Field

Quantico,

Date

TO LEGAT:

Beirut

Bern

Bonn

Brasilia

Buenos Aires

Caracas

Hong Kong

London

Madrid

Manila

Mexico City

Ottawa

Paris

Rome

Singapore

Tel Aviv

Tokyo

3/18/76

ReBSairtel 3/2/76, captioned as above.

For appropriate

For information

→ optional [X] action

→ Surep, by

The enclosed is for your information. If used in a future report,

conceal all

sources, [ paraphrase contents.

Enclosed are corrected pages from report of SA

dated

Remarks:

IHM enclosed with referenced airtel has been

classified seert," Category 2, Classifying

Officer 2047, Indefinite.

Boston should classify

its copy accordingly.

ALL INFORMATION CONTATIO

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFLED

DATE LL-S

Enc.

Bufile

Urfile

62-116395

66-4117

NW 65994 DBEld:32176842 PageT6Tr-329995R7 Dare 30

---

