# DOCID-32112195

## Page 1

Date: 09/13/93

Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : DOS

RECORD NUMBER : 1191001710244

RECORDS SERIES :

LOT 90D48:SOV FILES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : OSWALD, LEE, SOVIET DOCUMENTS

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM : HELMS, RICHARD

TO : RANKIN, J. LEE

TITLE :

DISCUSSION BETWEEN CHAIRMAN KHRUSHCHEV AND MR. DREW PEARSON RE LEE

DATE : 05/27/64

PAGES : 3

SUBJECTS :

OSWALD, LEE, RUSSIAN PERIOD

DOCUMENT TYPE : MEMORANDUM

CLASSIFICATION : S

RESTRICTIONS

CURRENT STATUS

REFERRED

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/09/93

CREASE OF ASLOT as samitiged

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

Kp2110097

Excised

OPENING CRITERIA :

CIA REVIEW

COMMENTS : Cito deleterio.

Secret.

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

65990 Date: 11-01-2021

(R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

.. NW 65990 Docld:32112195 Page 1

---

## Page 2

SECRET

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

WASHINGTON 25, D. C.

→ SJAL

Isor

27 May 196l

RES

ir. d. Lee Renlelay

Caneral Camso

residonse Vortieston on tae

Assascimation of Froaldont Termody

SONGSTE

Ancussion becoon Chairnan Harachcher En

Harvey Osuali

UFT

30

Pite will amplify my bolephorte penals to you on 25 May,

during which I inforod you thet Min, and Mrs, trou tearson bad

ple

had a l5-námto conversation in Cairo on 2l May with Chalmin

Khrustichev,

The CLA Chief of Btatton in Cairo han riportoe e con-

versation unich he and hie wife hold with Mr. and Ned. Drou

Fourson in Cairo on 2h and 25 Vay. firs, Pearsen ta a cousin

et the wife of our thiss of Station.

Nothing ta tha cable

quoted belov ahoula be constried as otriating say dosirabilite

the Connission ney feel about securing testimony direptly from

We are forsarding it to you sotely for

the prepose

of pining in your benda at the earliest mment the

infornation which has been provided to ue in this privilegca

fashion.

tho moocago tron ou Chiot of Statton in Cadro reado

as follous:

"Urse Drew Poacon providod en the evaning of

2l, Thy the Strot intomabion on the UnmiA portion

of the conversation with Chairman and Wai. Ourashchav.

jirs, thrashcher opened the conversation by Inautting

about Mira. Connedy and espressing corcera about and

altootion for her. 1rg. Feareon reganured her, maying

that kins, Konnody had bore up ronaritably wol? and was

in good boatth.

(Hoot et thio coregsatios ta in

English whàch Arg, Thrusbohey spooks fairly woll, With

save esistance femn khrushchey interroter, sho had

served in the pest as interpreter for the Poazzone

and the helped arrsago the moeting.) This lod dato-

Threshchey inquiry about thesz mutual friend,

the vite of Chief Justioo Harmon, and theace into

SECRET

NW 65990 Docld:32112195 Page 2

---

## Page 3

SECRET

4: 2 50

mention of the Varron Comfeston.

thesawan thanancher

then Joined the comersation, exprescing commer of the

sasasstation and also inquirod about Mrs: Koanody •

Thereupas he ashed 10% Pearson,

What realty happened?!

New: Pearson sold in offact that tho whole alton hed

tains place jaso ee had been roposted in the tampapors

and procaly by the Soviet Ambassador in Manhängton.

Chetamon Khrushchow was attorty inoredutous d his

abtibute una chassotorised by firs. Forzoon so being

archo typicas

"ot every Turopoon I have over talked to en

the subdeotto that 1a, that there veo sono lind of

consparacy to assessinato President

Kennedy and then

murder the asonegin tith the Dallas Police Dapertant

boing on acessory. Irs. Forgon got the impression

that Chalman Khushchew had sons darks thoughts aboat.

tho Anarican hight ling being bohind this conspiracy

although Chairmn Krushcher did not articulate this in

any clear tuation.

Pao• Jeerson tao a bie vague on this

point in letingatching between shnt (hatran rushcher

said and what she thought he belloved. When Wro Parzoon

caid that we Avericone aze peculiar people, 1$ undor-

standabile that forotnous had ditMiculty comprehending

this fantantte epieole, but in, faet Dald was rod, bad

sotad en his ovu, datto Rays

Chainen Inchchor boid.

Mistly that he did not bolieve thia.

He sade ho did

not boltere that the Anortoon necmity servicon wore

this nopt» De. Feareon egain 301d he agroed this

vas hair to belleve but the facte sore no thor arponred.

17S• Khrushchey also errescod disbelios and moiteratad

her attection for Hes, Hennody.

1273» laurison repeated

that tho reaction of Chatron Thrushchan and his wife

vo one of flat disbelier and archetniont of the

univercel Europoon belted that there saa come lind of

Anentean conupiracy bohtod the assassination of Frest-

dent Somedy and the medion of Corald.

Shauuman and

New, Trushchov could not believe that the

attair had

hoppened as it asparently did and lay Fonzoon ente 30

heahay watover in trying to cinnge their boltor that

san thing ma not on tho levol.

Chasmen Kurushcher

greeted 10re and Vira. Peason o efforto with a tolerent

the conversation then drifted lato Chairs

Karannaheu? briently commenta about Prosidont Johnson.

#On

the noming of 25 May, le. Poaccon meterrad

on peasant to the Corala portion ol the converoation,

SEGRET

NW 65990 Docld:32112195 Page 3

---

## Page 4

CECRET

mying that Chalmen Thrushchey tos completely cominced

thet the deus story of the lannedy espassänation has not

com out. 1o'e Parson notd archat moratty, *I contente

make a nictel with khrushchev on this mneu? lo gave the

Impression that Chatman thrhohert attatude tos eno of

amplete steptician as to the jubiie vorsion rather than

baing one of bolitzg concrete idend as to croctly shat

heypenal.

rodorenco to the taot that Chairan end fit. Hurchchov

aro cominoed that the cubile vorston of the astade se

noo truo nnd thet nhhing thoy could ey altered thte

belial.*

(Signed) Richard Hels

Richaend Meters

Deputy Dirpatap for Flons

Fero

Fer, Richard Fo

Botany, nevis

SECRET

NW 65990 Docld:32112195 Page 4

---

