# DOCID-32378918

## Page 1

104-10216-10431

Released under the John F. Kenhedy

Assassination Flecords Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note]. Case#: NW

65990 Date: 10-29-2021

Fiores:Bu%

WH/C/COPS

EX:.

726÷

21 ÁP21L 1985

10.

JAWAVE

TOM DIRECTOR

cons. DC/WHC-5

MESSAGE F030L1Y -

I SECRET_

JAINS RUN

AKING.

MHARIN CLA

ELHINE

==

C/FS/INF-2

OTE DIR

DESEXSIZIZED TYPIC ANKNOB/S

REF: WAVE 0965 (IN 48276)

1, HAVE IS FOCAL POINT FOR CI OPS IN GENERAL, ESPECIALLY FOZ

OPS TARGETTED AGAINST CUIS STAFFERS OR AGENTS OR AGAINST PURS KEY

FIGURES, IN SOUR INSTANCES HQS HAY HAVE OVERRIDING INTERESTS BUT

IN SUCH CASES APPROPRIATE NOTICE WILL BE GIVEN TO STATION.

2: GUIDSLINES FOLLON:

*.:A. AUBRE WAVE CONTROLLED DA IS INVOLVED AND WHERE

MATERIAL CONCERNS STATION EXILE COLMUNITY AND ACTIVITIES PER

REF PARA 1 A, SIATION NAY PASS EITHER MATERIAL FROM DA OR LIKE

MATERIAL FROM OTHER SOURCES WITHOUT PRIOR ERS CLEARANCE UNLESS

HQS HAS NOTIFIED STATION OF CONFLICTING INTERESTS.

TB. WHRN WAYS FEEDS BACK INTO TO CUIS PER ABOVE, STATION

¿MOST GIVE TIMELY NOTICE TO HOS USING CABLE OR PRIORITY DISPAICA

AT DISCRSTION COS.

•C. HQS MILL SEEP WAVE INFORYED GENERALLY OF OPS AND

OBJECTIVES INVOLVING CUIS AND PURS AND WILL, COORDINATS OPS

DIPECILY AFFECTING HAVE CASES AND INTERESTS.

5:41

areness 23-180

CORERIBATINR 9URI

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHISITEO

stit

Copy sa

- AMLASH-/

NW 65990 Docld:32378918 Page 1

---

## Page 2

104-10216-10431

221220150-

D1o ricix

CALE IN CS ELINO

::==. DIRECIOR

ĐFO

PAGE TWO

10

CT 04 0 4241

D. HAVE MUST OBTAIN PRIOR ERS APPROVAL BEFORE FEED BACE

0F MATERIAL ON ODYOKE ACTIVITIES AND BEFORE PASSAGE OF

DECEPTION MATERIAL.

3. SPECIFIC HOS CLEARANCE IS REQUIRED PRIOZ TO PASSAGE OF

MATERIAL ON AMROD, AMWORLD AND AHLASH MATTERS.

4.. TO IMPROVE CUIS IMAGE OF ANKNOB/2 HQS SUGGESTS WAVE HAVE

HIM PREPARE REPORT ON EXILE ORGANIZATIONS AND PERSONALITIES, GIVING

BIO DATA AND AIMS BUT MITH MINIMUM DATA ON SPECIFIC ACTIVITIES.

END OF MESSAGE

VH/C/M10

-HH/C/RR/09

WA/C/PA

wH/C/FI/D

TH/C/SP

Rick

WH/C/CA/EA 0O RAL

1 hous

DESMOND FITZGERALI

494:4

Goss I. MAN

• HART

SOOIPIMSIINE SUI

SECRET

SPRODUCTION MY OTHER THAN THE ISSUE ORICE IS PROMISITED

"Coar Nia

NW 65990 Docld:32378918 Page 2

---

