# DOCID-32306672

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/24/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10290-10312

RECORD SERIES: HO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 62-9-25-242

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, LR

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

55994 Date: 11-03-2021

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

04/04/1961

3

JFC, TRA, GAMBLING, ASSOC, THP

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/27/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

NW 65994 Docld:32306672 Page 1

30

---

## Page 2

FD-36 (Rev. 12-13-56),

REC 9

FBI

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

Date:

4/4/61

PLAIN TEXT 2%

(Type in plain text or code)"

AIR MAIL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO:

FROM:

RE:

DIRECTOR, FBI (62-9-25)

SAC, LITTLE ROCK (92-16)

TOP HOODLUM PROGRAM

WEEKLY SUMMARY

LITTLE ROCK DIVISION

Remyairtel, 3/28/61.

RACE WIRE SERVICE

LITTLE ROCK, ARKANSAS

On March 20, 1961, the following information

was obtained from Little Rock PCI JUNE LYTLE:

The wire service for Little Rock. Arkansas,

is received by long distance phone from the Nola Printing

Company, New Orleans, Louigiana, which is operated by

JOSEPH ALBERT PORETTO.

This service is received by

LItyle Rock bookmaker, who formerly operated in Little Rock,

Arkansas.

The cost of this service is approximately $180

a week, which works on a sliding scale of $170 to $182

each week.

PORETTO has at various times been known to

send out the various race results from New Orleans and

has made contact in Little Rock, Arkansas, approximately

a year ago concerning this service.

This service is also furnished by PORETTO to

Hot Springs, Arkansas, through OWEN VINCENT MADDEN, the

exact cost of their service not known.

PORETTO has been

heard on the phone to mention his bad health, especially

concerning his legs.

REG. 9

1-9-25-242

P.

HET/ds

(5)

ARR

S0GP

Approved:

& G = Wick

Sent

ecial Agent in Charge

GENIER

NW 65994 Docld:32306672 Page 2

---

