# DOCID-32413246

## Page 1

104-10180-10142

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

55987 Date: 10.28-2021

SOCRECY ACILZEMaNT

_, understand that I nay bo the racipient

of informntion and intollirance which concerns the present and futuro security of

our country and which belongs to our govorment. This information and Intolliganco,

corother with the nothods of colloctiny and handling 1t, aro classifiod accordine

to socurity. standards set by our goverment. I hare read and undarstand tho pro-

r1s1ons of tbe espionage laws concorning tho disclosuro of Infornation reláting to

tbe national defanso and I as lanillar vith the penalties providod for the viola-

tion tborgos.

2. I actoolodge that I do not sou, nor will I over possess any right, interast,

title, or clala in or to any of tho information or intelligenco or nothoda of

collocting or handling it. ubich has come or will cone to sy attention by virtue of

no comection with our goverment, but I will aluaya recognize the property rigit

of our goverment in and to such mattors. •

3. I do solonnly swear that I will never divulge, publish, or reveal either by word,

conduct, or any other means any classifiod intelligence or knowlodge excapt in th

performanco of my officlal dutlos and in accordance with the laus of our country,

unloss specifically authorized in uriting, in each case, by our goverment.

•. I understand that no change in uy reintlonship with our governent will rollav

ao of my obligation under this oath and that the provision of this oath will renali

binding upon so oven after the tornioation of sy servicos with our goverment.

Svasion.

I teico tals obligation froaly, without any mental reservation or purpose of

IN WITNESS VALOE, I bare set to hand and son this i day of int.

04

"Stenature

- 334)

va transed oy so tato ble do os april, 10l0.

at Noteca Cuba

-

Signature

2/00

NW 65987 Docld:32413246 Page 1

---

