# DOCID-32389097

## Page 1

Date:

01/18/05

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER: 104-10400-10069

RECORD

SERIES

:JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

: RUSS HOLMES WORK FILE

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM

TO

TITLE : PRESS CLIPPING: "CIA WITHHELD VITAL INTELLIGENCE FROM

WARREN COMMISSION".

DATE : 10/21/1964

PAGES : 2

SUBJECTS : PRESS CLIPPING

WC

CIA WITHHELD

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER

CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFTED

RESTRICTIONS : 1A

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 10/21/98

COMMENTS : JFK-RH01 : F001: 1998.10.21.16:48:44:233031

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1 992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

55990 Date: 11-01-2021

- - - - -^---

[R] - ITEM IS

RESTRICTED

104-10400-10069

NW 65990 Docld:32389097 Page 1

---

## Page 2

NW 65990

Docld:32389097

Page 2

Inside Washington

2100164

CIA Withheld Vital Intelligence From War ren Commission

By ROBERT S. ALLEN

And PAUL SCOTT

cials who actively oppose

on has yet to

be

used

dismissal of such persons

•Soviet policies.

against

any

high

West-

Tilled Soviet Strategic

ern official,

hundreds of

the

erom public office, ha vith.

even

WASHINGTON, Oct. 20.

Executive

Action,"

having

- The Central Intelli.

KGB agents covertly op-

them "eliminated' physi.

suppressed

CIA

docu-

erating outside of Russia

cally.

gence

Agency

withheld

ment went into the shock-

have been supplied with

"Such activities

are

vital

intelligence

infor-

ing details of how agents

this

pocket-size, gun,

mation from the Warren

known to be undertaken

of KGB, the Soviet secret

awaiting only orders

against other types of

Commission during its in-

assas.

police, are trained to

do

from

Moscow to

use it.

persons in the West, not-

vestigation of the

away with Western lead-

The

Murder

Weapons

ably

defectors from the

sination

of President

ers, including officials in

HIGHLIGITS of the

U.S.S.R.

and from other

Kennedy.

the

U.S.,

and to make

suppressed

intelligence

countries of the Soviet

Despite

the commis-

their

deaths appear due

estimate. which is locked

sion's written request for

to natural causes.

in a security area within

bloc.

"One recently reported

all documents that might

One of the KGB's new-

the: tightly-guarded CIA,:

assassination technique is

shed light on the assas-

sination.

devised assassination

are as follows:

to electrocute an individ-

CIA authoritics

tapons is "a: pnumati-

"It has been reported

val

luring

him

failed to turn over a na-

cally operated poison ice

..that the

KGB endeavors

tional intelligence

esti-

atomizer? : which : leaves

mate

warning that it is

no wound or other evi-

Soviet interests posed ty

use a telephone, connect-

ed to a high-voltage wire.

during a thunderstorm.

Kremlin policy to remove

dence of the cause of.

certain members of West.

from public öffice by as-

death "

ern governments. some.

.."Another involves the

sassination Western offi-

While this deadly weap.

times

atranging

for. the

use

a: pistol

which

projects. a poison gas in

liquid or compressed

form.

The gas is

fatal

within

seconds and an

autopsy would not reveal.

its use.

Non-trace a ble

poisons have been report-

ed which do not take ef.

fect

until several hours

after being administered,

thus allowing an assassin

to be far from the scene

when his victim

dies.

"A knowledge able

source

has

described

pneumatically

• operate d

poison

ice 'atomizer'

which leaves

wound

or other evidence of the

cause of death."

Congressional

investi.

gators,

who

have

asked

that the name

of

their

committee

withheld

for security

reasons

port

John

that

CIA

Director

McCone made no

mention of this explosive

document in

his secret

testimony

before the

Warren

Commission.

White McCone furnish-Y

ed the

commission with

the CIA's secret surveil-

lance

reports

Lee

Harvey

Oswald's

eight

days in Mexico City be

fore the assassination. in

cluding

wald's

details

contact with

Os

head. KGB

the

agent in the

Soviet

embassy

there,

the

CIA chief gave

hint of the Kremlin's as

sassination policy.

(CONTINUED ON 8-15)

Other Sunpressed

Documents

OTHER V.S. Intolli.

gence experts,

very du-

bious of Russia's co-ex

istence

line, stress that

the Warren

Commis-

findinus

sion's find different af

have

might

this

CIA

estimate and

other

documents

sun-

pressed by the Stile De.

the CIA," ASsassination

shown by administration

officials to Speaker John

McCormack (Mass.), next

in line ito succeed Presi-

dent Johnson.

While. FEl officials

White

warned Speaker McCor

mack.

dedicated

Communist, that he is on

the list of Western offi

cials feared by the Krein-

Tin

Who tolut

to These

gues

---

## Page 3

Inside Washington

2011 64

CIA Withheld Vital Intelligence From Warr

•By ROBERT S. ALLEN

And PAUL SCOTT

WASHINGTON: Oct. 20

-The Central Intelli

gence

Agency

withheld

vital intelligence

infor-

mation from

the Warren

Commission during its in-

vestigation

of the

assas-

sination. of

President

Kennedy.

Despite

the commis-

sion's written request for

all documents that might

shed light

sination,

on the

assas-

CIA authorities

failed to turn over a na-

tional

mate

intelligence

esti-

warning

that it

is

Kremlin policy to remove

from public

sassination

office by as-

Western offi

cials who actively oppose

on has

yet

to

be

used

*Soviet

policies.

dismissal of such persons

against

any

high

West-

liquid

Executive

it"S Mitt Strategie

from public office, at oth

form.

The

ern

official, hundreds of

times

Action,"

even

KGB

having

• within

agents

SeC

covertly

them 'eliminated'

suppressed

CIA

docu-

physi

autopsy wo

erating outside of

Russia

cally.

ment went into the shock-

its

have

been

supplied with

Pocket-size,

'Such

activities

ing details of how agents

are

this

poisons hav

of KGB, the Soviet secret

null

known

to be undertaken

awaiting only

ed which di

orders

against

other

police, are trained to

do

from Moscow to use it.

types of

fect

until

away with Western lead-

persons in the West, not

The

Murder

Weapons

ably

after being

ers, including officials in

HIGHLIGHTS

of

U:S.S.R.

defectors from the thus allowir

the

the

U.S.,

and to

and from other

make

suppressed

intelligence

to be far fi

countries

their deaths appear

due

estimate, which is locked

bloc.

of

the

Soviet

When

his

to natural causes.

* "A

in a

security area within

One of the KGB's new-

"One recently reported

kno:

the tightly-guarded CIA,

source

has

ly

devised

assassination technique is

wapons: is

assassination

are

follows:

pneumatica:

"a pnumati-

"It

to electrocute an individ-

has

been

poison

ice

reported

ual

by

cally operated

luring

him

to

which

poison ice

leave

that the

KGB

'atomizer,'

endeavors

which

use a telephone,

connect-

other

leaves

evi-

to remove the. threat to

wound.

other

Soviet.

ed to a high-voltage wire,

or

ev

interests posed by

cause of de

dence of the

during a thunderstorm.

cause of

certain members of West-

Congressi

"Another

death."

involves

the

gators

ern governments,.som e

who

use

of

pistol

which

While this deadly weap

that

the

times arranging

for the projects a poison gas in

ne

committee

Other "Suppressed

Documents

OTHER

U.S. intelli

gence experts,

very du-

Dous of

istence

Russia's co-ex-

the

line, stress that

Warren

Commis-

Sion's

findings

nave

might

been

different

this

CIA

estimate and

other

documents

sup-

pressed by the State De-

partment had been avail-

able for study.

They

point

out

that

the State Department

suppressed evidence link-

ing Oswald with

its

one of

employes,

who

cording to

.ac-

"presented

security. files,

Soviet

strong

pro-

views...on

question

every

that

came,

up

in the Department's

U.S.S.R.

tee"

country commit.

while she

was

member

This

State Department

official's

name also

ap

pearec

the

book of a suspecter

aderess

Viet

So

agent

who

arrived

in the U.S. in 1943, ac-

cording to government

files.

Congressional investi

gators

also

have been

shocked to discover that

the CLA's as

assassination

shown by administration

officials to Speaker John

McCormack (Mass.),

next

in line to succeed Presi

dent Johnson.

While

FBI officials

warned Speaker

'McCor.

mack,

dedicated

anti

:Communist,

the list

that he is on

of

Western offi

lin,

cials feared by the korm

authority

has shown the No. 2 man

in

government

the

CIA

report

Listing

these

se-

•cret

Soviet

assassination

methods.

Instead,

•M c Co rmack

learned about the report

only

recently

from con-

gressional

probers

who

ale

trying

to - determine

why

the

document.

been suppressed

has

The investigators

also

are trying to

why the CIA in its

determine

assassination

pre-

report

to

the State Department on

Oswald's trip

to.

Mexico

City gave details only

of

the defector's visit to the

Russian embassy and not

the Cuban embassy.

CIA dia

The

latter

not report the

visit

until

after

Kennedy's assassination

in Dallass

maristo

p. 8593

The caller foon the

Simbasu

Cutan.

was undinited

8593 conceaned

by tenglass

NW 65990 Docld:32389097 Page 3

---

