# DOCID-32366562

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY

: CIA

RECORD NUMBER

: 104-10133-10041

RECORD. SERIES

: JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

:

80T01357A

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

AGENCY ORIGINATOR

FROM

TO

TITLE

DATE

PAGES

:

CIA

: SECURITY ANALYSIS GROUP

: DIRECTOR OF SECURITY

ROSELLI/MAHEU MATTER.

05/23/1975

2

SUBJECTS : DULLES, ALLEN

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

RESTRICTIONS : 1A

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

.:. 09/06/97

COMMENTS: JFK48: F15 : 1997.09.06.18:53:11:763102

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

65924 Date: 10-26-2021

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10133-10041

NW 65924 Docld:32366562 Page 1

---

## Page 2

UNCLASSIFIED

INAL EYES ONLY

ONLY

CONJ

NITIAL

SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT: Optional)

Roselli/Maheu Matter

FROM:

EXTENSION

NO

John S. Hunt

Security Analysis

TO: (Officer designation; room number,. and

building)

DATE

Grò

6009

23 May 1975

DATE

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

•COMMENTS (Number eoch comment lo show from whom

to whom.

Draw a line across column after each camment.)

1.

AC/SAG

RECEIVED

FORWARDED

stales.

2.

findings d = requested

fors натто.

ADD/PSI

5/21/15

3.

D/Security

71973

27M75

4.

5.

6.

→38/15C6.

-Here -

7.

See prat

Must.

8.

Scott sneakerili

9.

i lined an

NOTE: On 29 May 1975, Mr. Scott Breckenriage_

and Mr. Stan Ense were brelied re attached.

10. Mr. Breckenridge noted that during his recent

testimony before the Senate Committee,

he was

thoroughly questioned concerning the attached

" discrepancy, and assumed that God. Shef Edwards, Plug tried 83-1e

who is due to testify on 30 May 1975, will likewise plete briginal in 57931e}

12. be pressured over this point. In view of Col.

file a dory in Malen

Edwards age, Mr. Ense was briefed re the

potential for Col. Edwards having to undergos

Of file. also plase

13. very thorough and rough examination.

dory with this fover

Hunt

14.

shoot in sscio file te

hate your bristig of

15.

FORM

JoE:34366562 panell

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 3

SECR

EY

ONLY

23 May 1975

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director of Security

SUBJECT

: Roselli/Maheu Matter

1. This memorandum is for your information.

2. Reference is made to the 21 May 1975 memorandum from

Mr. Scott D. Breckinridge, which outlines his review of the

Department of Justice files on the Roselli/Maheu matter.

3. The undersigned reviewed referenced memorandum and

discovered

an apparent discrepancy between the Office of

Security

files and

the Department of Justice files.

Para-

graphs 9

and 10 of

referenced memorandum reflect that the

Department of Justice records contain a 22 May 1961 report

of an FBI interview with Colonel Sheffield Edwards.

During

this FBI interview, Colonel Edwards allegedly stated that

"only Mr. Bissell

and two others in CIA" were aware of the

"Giancana-Maheu activity" and that "Allen Dulles was

com-

pletely unaware of Edwards' (sic) contact with Maheu in this

connection."

4. Office of Security files reflect that Mr. Allen

Dulles had approved the entire operation against Castro, thus

inferring that he would have been aware of plans to approach

Robert A. Maheu, et al.

Further, our files reflect that six

Agency people were aware of the operation--Allen Dulles,

William Harvey, Richard Bissell, Sheffield Edwards, Colonel

J.C. King, and James O'Connell.

5. The above is provided for your intormation should

this discrepancy surface during the current inquiries into

this matter.

Security Analysis Group

EZ IMP.DET

CL BY 063994

ONLY

NW 65924 Docld:32366562 Page 3

---

