# DOCID-32176844

## Page 1

Date: 07/27/94

Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : FBI

RECORD NUMBER

:124-10187-10138

RECORDS SERIES :

BS

Heleased under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection act ol

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note]. Case#:NW

65994 Diate: 11-01-2021

AGENCY, FILE NUMBER : 66-4117-46 THUR 51

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR

FROM :

TO :

TITLE :

DATE : 00/00/0

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

NAR

• DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION

:.U

RESTRICTIONS: NOT ASSASSINATION RELATED

CURRENT STATUS: P

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/27/94

OPENING CRITERIA :

INDEFINITE

COMMENTS

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NW 65994 Docld:32176844 Page 1

---

## Page 2

Date: August 2, 2021

From: National Archives and Records Administration

Subject: Reconstructed FBI File BS 66-4117, Serials 46-51

To: The File

This memorandum briefly summarizes the status of missing original Federal Bureau of

Investigation (FBI) case files or portions of case files in the President John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection (JFK Collection) and documents the National Archives and

Records Administration's (NARA) efforts to reconstruct these records, where possible, from

duplicate copies of documents located in other FBI files.

As the JFK Collection was first compiled and reviewed in the 1990s, the Assassination Records

Review Board and the FBI designated some records as "not believed relevant" (NBR) or "not

assassination related" (NAR). The FBI retained custody of the NBR/NAR records and

postponed their transfer to NARA until a later date. Every document or group of documents

("serials"), however, received an indexed Record Identification Form (RIF) and FBI inventory

sheet for insertion into the JFK Collection.

Several years prior to the 2017 re-review and transfer of the NBR/NAR material to the National

Archives, the FBI destroyed a few files with NAR designations according to an authorized

records disposition schedule in effect at the time.

This compilation represents NARA's efforts to reconstruct the original file or portions of the file,

as completely as possible, with duplicate copies of documents located in the FBI field office and

headquarters files within the JFK Collection. Each reconstructed file or compilation contains a

Record Identification Form, an explanatory cover memo, existing administrative documents

available within the JFK Collection, and copies of identified duplicate documents. The table

below summarizes the status of FBI file BS 66-4117, Serials 46 through 51.

RIF Number

FBI File

Number

List of Serials

From Inventory

Sheet

List of Identified

Serials at NARA

124-10187-10138

BS 66-4117

46-51

48, 50

Reconstructed

Status (None,

Partial,

Complete)

Partial

NW 65994 Docld:32176844 Page 2

---

## Page 3

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

POSTPONEMENT INFORMATION SHEST (JFK MATERIALS)

(pade withheld entire elit mention en de dide

One or more of the

following statements, where indicated,

explain this deletion (these deletions) •

Deletions were made pursuant to the postponement

rationale indicated below with no segregable material

available for disclosure.

All references relate to

Section 6 of the "President John F. Kennedy Assassination

Records Collection Act of 1992."

Subsection 1A (intelligence agent's identity)

[]

Subsection 1B (intelligence source or method)

Subsection 1C

(other matter relating to military

defense, intelligence operations or

the conduct of foreign relations)

[]

Subsection 2

[]

[]

Subsection 3

Subsection 4

[]

Subsection 5

(living person who provided

confidential information)

(unwarranted invasion of privacy)

(cooperating individual or foreign

government, currently reguiring

protection)

(security or protective procedure,

currently or expected to be utilized)

Information pertained to a matter unrelated to the ork

Assassination investigation.

[]

For your information:.

The following number is to be used for reference

regarding this page (these pages) :

B5 66-4117-46-51

XXXXXXXXXX

xxxxxXXXXX

XXXXXXXXXXXX

xxxxxxxxxxx

XXXXXXXXXXXX

XXXXXxXXXX

NW 65994 Docld:32176844 Page 3

---

## Page 4

NW 65994

Docld: 32176844

Pa

4

File #:

_BS

serial

Number

Document

Date

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

03/24/75

03/25/75

05/02/75

05/05/75

05/20/75

05/20/75

MEMO

05/28/75

MEMO

06/13/75

MEMO

06/18/75

TT

06/18/75

TT

06/20/75

TT

07/24/75

TT

09/04/75

TT

09/03/75 TT

09/04/75

TT

09/05/75

TT

Page:

66-4117

Document

Type

Document

From

TT

TT

TT

MEMO

HQ

BS

HQ

NEWPHER

HQ

JOHNSON

HQ.

BATES

HQ

BS

HQ

HQ

BS

BS

Document

TO

ALL SACS

HQ

ALL SACS

ALL EMPLOY

ALL SACS

ALL EMPLOY

ALL EMPLOY

JOHNSON

NY

NY

HQ

ALL SACS

BS

HQ

HQ

3rd

Agy

JFK Inventory Sheet

(Committees

Files)

section #: 1

other

Direct

Dupes

ACTUAL PERT.

Rev.

Re:

CHURCH COMM.

Rel.

With- FBI Ref Duplicate

held

3rd Agy

Location

Postponements

NAR

NAR

NAR

NAR

NAR

NAR

NAR

NAR

NAR

NAR

NAR

NAR

NAR

NAR

NAR

NAR

---

## Page 5

NW 65994

Docld: 32176844

Page

Serial

Number

Document

Date

Document

Type

09/05/75

TT

18

20

24

25

26

31

34

09/08/75

TT

09/17/75

TT

09/18/75

TT

09/18/75

TT

09/23/75

TT

09/24/75

TT

09/26/75 TT

09/29/75

MEMO

10/10/75

MEMO

11/17/75

SS

11/17/75

11/18/75 TT

11/20/75

NEWS ARTIC NY

11/21/75 RS

12/10/75 TT

12/12/75

NEWS ARTIC BS

12/16/75

NEWS ARTIC

BS

Page: 2

Document

From

HQ

BS

HQ

AX

BS

NY

BS

HQ

BATES

BATES

BS

Document

TO

AX

HQ

HQ

HQ

HQ

ALL SACS

ALL AGENTS

ALL EMPLOY

NY

3rd

Agy

Other

Direct

Dupes

ACTUAL PERT.

Rev.

Rel.

With-

FBI Ref

Duplicate

held

3rd Agy Location

12

BS

ALL SACS

Postponements

NAR

NAR

NAR

NAR

NAR

NAR

NAR

NAR

NAR

NAR

NAR

NAR

NAR

NAR

NAR

NAR

NAR

NAR

---

## Page 6

NW 65994

Docld:32176844

serial

Number

37

38

39

40.

41

42

43

44

46

47

48

49

50

51

Page: 3

Document

Document

Date

Type

12/16/75

NEWS ARTIC

01/05/75

NEWS ARTIC

12/31/75

NEWS ARTIC

01/05/76

LET

01/08/76

TT

02/23/76

TT

03/02/75

LHM

03/02/76

AT

03/18/76

RS

04/09/76

MEMO

04/10/76

TT

06/01/76

TT

06/02/76

MEMO

08/31/76

TT

09/06/76

TT

09/22/76

STATEMENT

10/19/76 AT

Document

From

To

BS

BS

BS

THIRD PART BS

BS

HQ

HQ

BS

BS

HQ.

BS

HQ

HQ

BS

BATES

PALMER

BS

HQ

• ALL SACS

BATES

ALL SUPERV

ALL SACS

BS

CHURCH COM

HQ

AL

3rd

Agy

Other

Direct

Dupes

ACTUAL PERT.

Rel.

With-

FBI Ref

held 3rd Agy

Duplicate

Location

0.

Postponements

NAR

NAR

NAR

NAR

NAR

NAR

NAR

NAR

NAR

NONE

NONE

NAR

NAR

NAR

NAR

NAR

NAR

---

## Page 7

NW 65994 Docld:32176844 Page 7

Grand Totals..

End of Report

90

46

143

---

## Page 8

# 4 Desh- No.

#2 Dele-No

HOD 7736 2442929

RR AFD

DE HO

R 312:3508 AUG 76

FM DIRECTOR

TO ALL SAC'S ROUTINE

9T

CLEAR

TESTIMONY BEFORE THE PERMANENT SUPCOMMIITEE ON INVESTIGATIONS,

SENATE GOVERNMENT

OPERAIIONS SUBCOMMITTEE.

TO AID FBIHO IN RESPONDING TO CUESTIONS RAISED EY

CAPTIONED SUZCOMMITTEE, SUTEL BY SEPTEMRER 7, 1975, AITENTIO!

SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE DIVISION THE FOLLOWING: THE TOIAL

NUMBER OF INDIVIRUALS BEING SOUGHI CURRENTLY AS FUCITIVES

BECAUSE OF THEIP FAILURE TO APPEAF OF "HO OTHERWISE DEFAULTER

ON THE TERNS OF THEIR PRETRIAL RELEASE IN THOSE CHIMES QUEP

WHICH THE FBI HAS PPINARY INVESTIGATIVH JURISDICTION%

Corail

80-662-18

SEARCHED_

_INDEXED

SERIALIZED KUFILED D

AUG 3 1 19/6

J-JACKSON

Handle

W•65994 Docld:32176844-Page 8 -

---

## Page 9

OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20535

STATEMENT OF

CLARENCE M. KELLEY

DIRECTOR

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

BEFORE THE

SENATE

SELECT COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE,

SEPTEMBER 22, 1976

SAC

AAAC

3

5

At 6

66-2832-40

Searchedu

1::::

Fileu

ST

NW 65994 Docld:32176844 Page 9

---

## Page 10

Today marks my first appearance before the Senate

Select Committee on Intelligence. I want to assure, you that

I sincerely welcome the opportunity to work with you.

I believe

that we can and must develop a clear

base of understanding between the Executive and Legislative

Branches on the proper role of the FBI in the discharge of

its complex national security responsibilities.

As the Supreme Court so aptly observed in its

Keith Decision in 1972, "Unless Government

safeguards its

own capacity to function and to preserve the security of its

people, society itself could become so disordered

that all

rights. and liberties would be endangered."

Yet the maintenance of national security is a

hollow victory unless it can be achieved with the least

possible intrusion into the rights and privacy of our citizens.

Balancing these imperatives. will require the greatest study

and serious thought.

Together, I feel we can reach a meaningful understanding

which will best serve our country.

Since I became Director in 1973, there has been a

continuous examination of all major aspects of the FBI's

operations. One such study, initiated in 1974, established

that a quality, rather than a caseload quantity, approach in

the assignment of our manpower and other resources would

produce better results.

NW 65994 Docld:32176844 Page 10

---

## Page 11

Originally, this quality approach

was tried on an

experimental basis in four of our 59 field divisions. It

proved

so successful that we implemented it field-wide in 1975.

Today, the quality approach is being applied to all

areas of jurisdiction, including those in the foreign

intelligence and domestic security fields that are of prime

interest to this Committee.

In July; 1973, we had 21,414. domestic security cases.

By March 31, 1976, before the Attorney General's guidelines

took effect, we had--through application of the quality

approach--reduced this caseload to 4,868 investigative matters,

a 78 percent reduction.

As of September 20, 1976, this Figure

has been further reduced to 626. This includes investigations

of 78 organizations

and 548 individuals.

This reduction has been made possible largely because

we have discontinued investigations of rank and file members!

We are confident that the FBI can meet its responsibilities

by focusing our investigations on the activities of organ-

izations and on individuals who are in a policy-making position

in those organizations or who have engaged in activities which

indicate

they are likely to use force or violence in violation

of Federal law.

In effecting this reduction, we have kept these

vital principles

in mind:

- 2 -

NW 65994 Docld:32176844 Page 11

---

## Page 12

First, there must he no sacrifice or compromise

of the essential security needs of the United States.

Second, there must be the least possible

intrusion

on the rights and privacy of our citizens, including

their

sacred right of legitimate dissent.

Third, although domestic security cases differ in

some

respects

from ordinary criminal investigations,

these cases should be tied as closely as possible to

actual or potential violations of Federal law. In

furtherance of this objective, last month I transferred

the supervision of all domestic security cases from our

Intelligence Division to our General Investigative

Division, which has responsibility over criminal matters.

In an effort to insure uniform adherence to the

guidelines and laws

applicable to these and all other areas

of our jurisdiction, I have combined the Office of Planning

and Evaluation and the Inspection Division. In this new

Division I have created a Professional Responsibility Section.

It will report directly to me.

I have also expanded the role of the Legal Counsel

Division in reviewing all areas of FBI policies and operations.

Legal Counsel will report directly to me and to the Associate

Director.

- 3-

NW 65994 Docld:32176844 Page 12

---

## Page 13

The investigations transferred include those

involving domestic organizations oriented toward violence

and individuals affiliated with such groups, as well as civil.

unrest and demonstration matters and basic revolutionary

groups dedicated to the overthrow of the Government. . The

General Investigative Division will also be responsible

for

several categories of criminal investigations formerly

administered by the Intelligence Division. These are

bombing

matters,

sabotage, passport and visa violations,

and protection of foreign officials and official

guests

of the United States.

The guidelines which the Attorney General issued

last March set forth standards and procedures

for domestic

security investigations. But, the FBI regards these to be

minimum standards. FBI Headquarters has imposed stringent

criteria to insure we use our manpower resources in the most

productive manner.

There are a number of reasons why we have been able

to bring about a major reduction in our domestic security

caseload.

The decade of the 1960's was marked by protests,

often violent, on our Nation's

streets and campuses.

- 4-

NW 65994 Docld:32176844 Page 13

---

## Page 14

-

We entered the 1970s still engaged in an undeclared

conflict in Vietnam which was unpopular with some segments

of our population.

** :

Not in recent history had this country.

been

so divided over an issue, and this division was not limited

÷*.

to rhetoric but included demonstrations that often erupted

into violence.

There were deliberate criminal acts, including

bombings and sabotage, by persons opposed to our involvement

in Vietnam.

The role of the FBI

in this confrontation was

clearly to thwart the efforts of those who resorted to

violence as an expression of their opposition.

With the cessation of the vietnam War in early 1973,

a major cause for divisiveness in this country was eliminated, and

the potential for violence was lessened, but not eliminated.

The FBI began closing thousands of investigations

at that time as determinations were made that certain groups

and individuals no longer were engaged in activities that

, were likely to involve violations of Federal law.

The FBI met the unusual challenges of the 1960s and

early 1970s. The Senate Select Committee has examined these

and other problems

in the intelligence field which led

- 5

NW 65994 Docld:32176844 Page 14

---

## Page 15

to the creation of this Oversight Committee; and as the

Committee is aware, the FBI fully cooperated in that review.

You have my absolute assurance that your Committee

will receive the same full cooperation in carrying out its

responsibilities

under Senate Resolution 400.

One of the tasks confronting this Committee is

the

formulation of a legislative charter defining the FBI's

jurisdiction in the domestic security and intelligence fields.

This will be a most precise and demanding undertaking.

As I remarked to Senator Church's Committee, the

legislative charter must be sufficiently flexible that it does

not stifle the FBI's effectiveness in combating the high

incidence of crime and violence across the United States.

The charter must clearly address the demonstrated problems

of the past; yet, it must amoly recognize the fact that times

change and so also do the nature and thrust of our criminal

and subversive challenges.

The fact that the Department of Justice has

undertaken the formulation of operational guidelines governing

this area of our activities does not in any manner diminish

the need for legislation. The responsibility for conferring

jurisdiction resides with the Congress.

-

NW 65994 Docld:32176844 Page 15

---

