# DOCID-32201939

## Page 1

Date: 05/11/94

Page:1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : SSCIA

RECORD NUMBER: 157-10004-10050

RECORDS SERIES :

MEMORANDUM

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : FBI

FROM : HOOVER, J. EDGAR

TO : DIRECTOR, CIA

TITLE :

ROLANDO L. CUBELA Y SECADES

DATE: 06/27/62

PAGES :

3

SUBJECTS :

CUBELA Y SECADES, ROLANDO L.

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

PARIS TRIP

AMLASH

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : U

RESTRICTIONS : 1B, DONOR REST., REFERRED

CURRENT STATUS: X

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/12/94

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:Nw

56000 Date: 11-03-2021

335-2

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NW 66000 Docld:32201939 Page 1

---

## Page 2

"??"

3SIMX3850

MMOHS ENSESS INTONO

NATIONAL

SECURITY

INFORMATION

• Unauthorized Disclosure

Subject to Criminal

Sanctions

REC- 6

(NI) 105-77567

Date:

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

SECRET

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

REVIEWED BY FBLJFK TASK FORCE

AS SANITIZED C11327/1/94

on 1/1/94 dot

1

- Liaison

Mr. Mullins

RELEASE IN FULL

LEASE IN PART

BY LINISON

TOTAL DENIAL

(н)

• June 27,

1962

•2.

To:

OFFICER

Director

• Central Intelligence Agency

Attention: Deputy Directors. Plens

Eron:

Subject:

John Edgar tibover, Direator

ROLANDO L. CULELA Y SECADES

INTERNAL SECURITY • CUSA

TUL

7/15/94

'' 0/28/102

Classified by 2803 RAsgel

Deciassify.om

DAUR (JFK)

Reference is made to your letter dated April 12,

1961, concerning the subject, your reicrence CuCI-3/764,709.

Enclosed is a copy of a nemoranium dated June 13,

1962, ai liomi, Florida, which contains information concerning

the

possible defection of Cubela from the Cuban Covernment.

as a long-time contact oi a representative of your Agency.

SOURCE me advised our iani Orfice that Cubela plans to du to

296L6 2N0F

aris, france, foiloving the boureation of the congress in

Source, Finland, and wants:

me mito meet him there.

munsaid he already heü plons to so to Lurope on Jure 22,

So?, and stated that, if ho could be of eny service to the

nited states Governnent or assist Cubela, he vould arrange to

"naras snanever necessary, He sold he could be contacted

1 Cursed throninE copies.

BUt IDENTIFIES SOURCE

Scine

I42HCIDISQUACE

3) TRIA OBRICOR!

noted that he had been in close

_contact

-th

Bell: 01l --

who formerly was assigned to

Alohs -

inuted,

-States

Colluhan --

la Movane Cuba

BIA

and, aftcr

-2 - Paris (Enclosures 2) (See Note, Page 3).

vals

Malmna.

Mason

Sullivan

Tnrel.-

Truties

1. 5 51992 5

Nulmas ..

1932.

SEE NOTE, PASTIA

through for revicw)

NW 66000 Docld:32201939 Page 2

---

## Page 3

SECRET

Director

Contral Intelligence Agency

(S.

(5)

was transferred to

Lessi

(Co

SOURCE

RETT

Gi

CIA OFFICEO

was in contact witl

at the Enbassy in Havana.

in Hexico when Cubela tallico

* also montioned that he vas

his desire to cooperato,

want sa

SOURCE y emphasized that he does nai

* there. In speaking of

back:: Dus Miani

se to thin: he is coirsovace y

sonerning behind t

office advised:

mrothat the data jurislied

by him rould'be made available to the proper United States

agency and that his coments concerning me

to that agency.

voyiu be rclayed

OFFICER

SOURCE

noted that he was returning to New York

City fron iioni and said that, in the event he reccived any

additional informtion concerning Cubela, he would fomard it

ENTIFIES

to the rol. He furnished our liami Difice a business card oi

1**7ü

sovece

or i adine

assasked whom he should contact if he reccived

emergersy iriomation while in faris, and our lileni office,

which lad had no previous contact vithi

und informed hinSolacE

that he should go to the United States imbassy there ard speak

to someone in the Legal Attache's Office.

SOURCE

Since it appears thati

amals of operational

interest to your luency, ve are taking so stops to direct his

activitics. If he does volunteer information concornirg Cubela

in the future,, you will be pronatly advised. He arc lastricting

our representative in Paris that, in the event.

his office, he should

•to your represontative" semy

- 2 . .

REU-

(5)

MAY 2U ,:

SECRET

1.'°

NW 66000 Docld:32201939 Page 3

---

## Page 4

SECRET

1в per.

SOURCE

CDA

Director

Centinl Intelligence Agency

thene

If you have not alrea'y done so, you may desirc

to establish contact vith Cin

t and furnish hin specific

Instructions as to how

this maticr should be handled.

Enclosure

1B per

ATTENTION: LUGAL ATTACIES, PARIS AND LONDON, AND SAC, LIVET

Single copies of Miami sirtel and memorandum 6/18/62

are enclosed ior Legal Attaches, London and Paris.

SOURCE

Legal ittache,

Paris,

the appropriüta Centrel Intaili genee

should refer.

Embassy if sen

"goney official at the

does

SOURCE

contact your office.

NOTE:

18 su ca

(S) Steges

Classified "Secret"

ince the identities

seprosentatives abroad are set out beroim.

for that reason

and since

seni frents foxerly ass good. to lavana as ClAuloyee

to guidance willbe given o

souR

Cubela has been President of the Cuban University

Student Federation (FEU) for many years and was also a leader of

the Revolutionary Directorate, a group which fought with Castro

to overthrow •Batista. For several months we have been receiving

reports that Cubela is fed up with Castro and wants to defcct.

Since the data developed by Miami inúicates

CiA is arranging/ the

defection, we are withholding dissemination

this time.

= 3 -

IB perchar

25 1576

SECRET -

iLi

NW 66000 Docld:32201939 Page 4

---

