# DOCID-32342711

## Page 1

Date:

10/13/99

Page:

1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

- ------------------

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER

RECORD

SERIES

AGENCY FILE

NUMBER

ORIGINATOR

FROM

TO

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES

SUBJECTS :

CIA

104-10049-10336

JFK

80T01357A

DOCUMENT

INFORMATION

CIA

HAVANA

DIRECTOR

CABLE RE OFFER COOPERATION OF CUBAN CLANDESTINE

ACTION GROUP

02/27/60

RUBIO

ANTI-CASTRO

DOCUMENT TYPE

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : SECRET

RESTRICTIONS

1A, 1B

CURRENT STATUS

RELEASED

WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 08/15/96

OPENING CRITERIA

• COMMENTS : JFK2: F4 1996.08.15.17:51:17:936100:

CLASSIFIED

ATTACHMENT

feleased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination

Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

adeliNk 55924 Date: 10-21-2021

[R]

- ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NW 65924 Docld:32342711 Page 1

---

## Page 2

ATE

043 RLG/LSB/L≤F

: 26 FEB •60

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

P

SECRET

• DIRECTOR

, HAVANA

MICROFILMED

TION: WH 5/

JUL 1 * 1963

FO

CAS

IOD

2;

4,

s/c. 2

S/CRO, CA/PRO, CA/PRODOC! NICKOS SER.

DIR

INFO

ROUTING

4

5

FEB 27 06 0oZ 60

ROUTINE

IN 46665

CITE HAVA 3616

STATION CASUAL SOURCE ENRIQUE CARRILLO INFORMED ARETZ FOLLOWING

25 FEB

A. SOURCE AND JAIME

GOMILA MEETING WITH JUAN ABTONIO RUBIO PADILLA:

26 FEB AT WHICH TIME GOMILA WILL OFFER TO RUBIO COOPERATION AND UTILIZATION

OF GOMILA'S CLANDESTINE ACTION GROUP WHICH SOURCE DESCRIBES AS ONLY EXISTING

ORGANIZED TERRORIST ORGANIZATION IN CUBA TODAY.

B.: IN OFFERING ASSISTANCE TO RUBIO, SOURCE SAID THEY WERE IN

EFFECT THROWING THEIR SUPPORT TO JOSE IGNACIO RIVERO AND SILVIO CARDENAS WHO

TOGETHER WITH RUBIO HAD GOOD CONNECTIONS IN MIAMI AND WITH ODYOKE.

C. DESCRIBED RUBIO AND ANGEL-PERNANDEZ VARELA AS HIS INTIMATE

FRIENDS AND TWO MOST IMPORTANT MEN IN CUBA'S FUTURE.

2. WHEN PRESSED FOR DETAILS ON GOMILA'S ORGANIZATION CARRILLO COULD

A PROVIDE NO SIANIFICAT INO OTHER THEN TO DESCRIBE GOULA 1S BEING A

CO PROFESSIONAL CLANDESTINE OPERATOR, CLOSE COLLABORATOR OF GENERAL CANTILLO, VICE

PRESIDENT OF CUBAN WINE MERCHANTS ASSN, AND A MAN WHO NEVER HELD PUBLIC OFFICE.

PROMISED PROVIDE ARETZ 1 MARCH FULL REFORT GOMILA'S ORGANIZATION AND RESULTS

MEETING WITH RUBIO.

3.

ABovE OF OPERATIONAL INTEREST dUE:

20/.-

7.73>8

17089

A. FERNANDEZ MEMBER AMPALM CURICTORATE.

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

27 JeB '60

201-27378

Copy No.

D00559

NW 65924 Docld:32342711 Page 2

---

## Page 3

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

DATE ••

TO

FROM

ACTION :

INFO 8

3

ROUTING

4

5

6

PAGE -2-

TO

INFO

HAVA 3616

IN 46665

CITE

B. FACT AMPALM-I MENTIONED RUBIO AS POSSIBLE CANDIDATE FOR

ZRMETAL TALKS.

4.

FACT SOURCE APPEARS WITTING QODALE OPERATION.

NO: STATION RECORD GOMILA: REQUEST HQS CABLE TRAÇES.

END OF MESSAGE

no traces (welude this on car

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

27 Tel '60

201-77378

Copy No.

NW 65924 Docld:32342711 Page 3

---

