# 104-10167-10254

## Page 1

104-10167-10254

• URGASSIFIED

SUIVECT: (Oprionall

FROM:

WIDEN AL

_ *E ONLY

CONS"MENTIAL

ROUTING AND RECORD SHER.

NO.

DATE

SECRET

WH/III

TO: (Ottom designation, room member, end

wildling)

1.

03

WH/III/

2.

Э.

23 July 1959

DATE

RECIVED

FORWARDED

OFFICER'S

INETIALS

C/AH/III

5.

6.

%.

DC/WH

CWH

mr.

дек

10.

13.

14.

13.

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce:

FORMA

DIC 36 610 MOONS

PREVIOUS

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

4, 8. 001

UNCLASSIFIED

21BR

---

## Page 2

5799R6

GEOMET

Office Memorandun •

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO

: DC/SHI

DATE: 13 July 1959

FROM

WH/III/A:

SUBJECT: Pedro Lale DIAZ Lanz

The following answers were given ne by Reichhardt and are keyed

to the questions you wanted asked of him concerning Subjects

1. Did he ever see DIAZ Lans alone?

YES.

2. Did he see his as often as he wanted to?

YES.

3. Under what circumstances did he see him?

In the INS offices in Miant, both alone and in the presence

of INS officers.

Lo Was he ever denied access to him?

NO.

50

Did he have a chance to debrief him fully? Could he have

done so?

It was not possible to debrief DIAz fully for two reasons.

His state of mind wile being held in the INS offices in

Miani was not conducive to a proper debriefing; and there

was not enough time to obtain requirements fros beadquarters.

DIAZ was given a good preliminary debriefing by the FbI

inmediately after his arrival,

and a thorough debriefing

was possible only under different circunstances and with

detailed requirements. There was no denial by INS, other

than as the result of the circustances, of aecess to DIA,

who theoretically could have been debriefed.

SECRET

---

