. } INTER 4
SE att

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

( conFipel AL. {7 Secret

Tinsion [HO

‘art "2 AMES

RwanoeD

Onicens | COMMENTS ismbes sock comment te show

£6 Fehe gy tet

ean 60

| te vax gore

ea a
Pian 4 yar! ASC Me

weet etl GU

—._} —— i) BL

ne fa be ~ Cy etul s

++

th.

|e Me cable.

dM, ave hud?

i —

i

(CO CONFIDENTIAL UeEAvAL ——]sCUNCLASS?FIED

610 “e* C] secret

rom wh
anats. ‘whom. Drow line exten elem cher wach commen}



SECRET

CONTACT: Argolio MARTINEZ (formorly AMRAYON-4), Interproter

AMSIGH-3
PLACE: Howard Johnsoa's Restaurant, Dixio Highway
TIME: 1600-1730 hours, 24 Fobruary 1963

PURPOSE: Discussion of Capture of 8 Cubans
REFZRENCE: WAVE~ 4960

2, As a follow-up to reforence, the caso officer contacted
Argolio MARTINEZ, formerly AMRAYON=4, of tho 30th Novembor Movement
to find out what information he might be able to add. to tho incident

discussed in the reference, MARTINEZ' acccunt-follows;

92 wis? 4 Feoruary 1963 a friondly Sigma skippered by a man named
Juan’ ‘Cig left Miami with two crewmen unknown to MARTINEZ and the
following men who were destined for Elbow Cay and who were to eventually
infiltrate Cuba in the name of the 30th Novombor Movement:

Eleno OVIEDA. Alvarez 3
Juan REYES Morales !
Eumelio VIERA Olmedo- its

4

‘ NN i
{ncidentally, ‘the aforementioned trio jplus Emilis REZ Fernandez and
'Darjo FERRER were led by one Luis AGUIAR, All of thom except OVIEDA
had belonged to a group tighting for Thcrndique "Tondiques". ‘They
had. been on their way to Miami to secure assistance and had become
stranded at, Elbow Cay when their boat sank, The 30th November crew
of the WASP mat the group by chance at Elbow Cay, recruited them and
told AGUIAR the 30th November would infiltrate his group and resupply
them in exchange for AGUIAR's allogiance to the 30th November, In
the case of OVIEDA, MARTINEZ said he bolieved OVIFDA was urrested
with Patrick HEMMINGS for training on No-Namo Koy and joined AGUIAR's

group after OVIEDA's release from jail.)

3, The friendly Sigma left OVIEDA, REYES and VIERA on Elbow
Cay with camping supplies, weapons and equipment and "went to fish"
in the area near Cayo Anguila, In the meantime, the WASP captained
by MARTINEZ left Key Largo 9 February 1963 with additional supplies
and equipment, Luis AGUIAR, Emilio PEREZ Fernandez and Dario FERRER,
who were to join their compatriots at Elbow Cay,

While the WASP was at.Elbow Cay 10 February, they were
buzzed and circled by two jet fighters for approximately 15 minutes



SECRET

=2-

at about 1500-1600 hours, The jets then doparted in a S.W, direction.
MARTINEZ argued with a crow member that: the jets wore American but
the crowman insisted.that they were MIG's becau

‘many of them in Cuba. Lator,

so he said he had soon

the crew of the WASP sighted a boat on

the horizon. Thinking it was the friendly Sigma roturning from
Anguila Cay, the WASP went out to meet her, Howovor, the boat they
ESTRELLA" (believed Blanca Estrolla)

mot was a lobder boat "({nu)

captainod by Domingo MARTINEZ Alvarez aka "Ming
Juan MORALES Pascual, Armando MORALES Pascual and Agustin VI2CAINO Pino.
Thoso men were unknown to the crow of the WASP but were ree nized by

the crow of the friendly Sigma which subsoquent’
the lobster bout after tho doparture of the WASP. According to MARTINEZ,

the lobster boat was bona fido and had not engagod in oporational

activities to his knowledge.

4, After the departure,
to Flbow Cay to check on the

oes

x
of the WASP, the fi
throe infil.trees bi

to Miami, Upon tho arrival at Elbow Cay, tho

two Cuban Sigma boats “patrol.
Whon the friendly Sigma rotur
that on 12 February thoy saw
Cay, two Cuban Sigma boats pa
the lobster hoat anchored abo

ling" at Elbow Cay

colo" and crowed by

ly reported ‘mécting

riondly Sigma returned
fore their own roturn
rioendly Sigma sighted
on 12 February 1963.

nod to Miami, tho crew reported to MARTINEZ

tho 3 infiltrees wi
trolling tho water:

ut a mile from Elbow Cay. pene #

5, The 3 infiltrees were instruded - and
on Elbow Cay until the WASP could return with al

without which the infiltratio:

n would be impossil

hich they loft at Elbow
3 noar Elbow Cay and \~

expected — to romain
n intermediate craft,
blo, Further, the

infiltration point was not known to any of the 3 infiltreos, only to

the guide who was aboard the
friendly Sigma departed Miami

friendly Sigma. 09 20
Emil

with a crew.of 3,

Dario FERRER and supplies and weapons for 20 me!

to obtain an intermediate cra

‘Thuvsday, 22 February 1963,

_about 10-12 45 cal. pistols,

In additioen to the
an assortment of M

20 men, Castro is ‘ahead by 50 detonators, time

100 pounds of Pentolite, food:
6, MARTINEZ claims that

is and medicines.

the infiltrees we:

would not have laded just anywhere or the coast

had the moans to do it and a
all the elements necessary to
that Castro kidnapped the men
to Cuba.

SE

guido to head thom,
infiltrate Cuba,
en masse at Elbow

‘ase

CRET

February 1963, the >

ip PEREZ Fernandez, ‘%

ny’ Yhe“giide for the

“Gafiltrees and Luis AGUIAR, tho tean leader, remained in Minmi attompting
ft which the WASP would then take toyy>

Elbow Cay. The nows of that Castro had caught 8 men was received wy

mon, Castro captured wy EY
i-l's, FAL's, Mt3's for w
fuse, approximately

vibew.

tok?
re disciplined and“
of Cuba even if they ‘{" 9
. In the absence of ‘7y"

MARTINEZ suggested 5/%:

Cay and took them act
