ostOiTO-t0t80] emia

i ceeaee bezaee or a
A RETURN TO CIA
: : Background Use Only
, i Do Not Reproduce
aut aA e :
a LS GOVERNMENT :

Memorandum
Leadon ely

DATE: 27 GSccuber Lue?

FROM ©: Chief, Louston Office

SUBJECT: James Czcrison/George Broun--Vossivle Atteapt
fo Zebarrass Agency

1. als confirms Haynes/Crant telecun of 27 December 1967..

2. Herberc Frensicy, President of trova and Root, Inc., rerorted
f9 Haynes on 26 Dacezber that Hr. George Brovn had. received 2 “!aturbing
Eelephone call on Friday, 22 Deceniber 1967 from liugh Ayneswortl:, Loustos
Bureau reporter for Seusrony ine. Aynesworth cold brown that he had
received infornztion from LIL Cervage (apelltng?), former assistant to
New Orleans District Attorney Janes Garrison, cat Garrison might try to
Laplicace Brown in the "Xeanedy assass{nation plot".

3. The allegactoa {s caat in some unspecified manner, Brown was
favelved with the CIA ia Les odjeccive of “covering up" the “conspiracy”
for Prestdenc Johason. Ayacsvorth said Gervaze has docunents, facluding
ac least one {n Garrison's oun handwriting, which presumably have been
pxtracced iro Garrison's f1les. Aynesworth indicated that, ££ desired,
he could secure these docusents from Servage tor review by Brown

Erown's close cooperation with the Agency
Brown asked Frensley to co:sunteate this fiZormition
: EUs Feporzed to lieadquarters oniy as a utter of informa-

thon. “Neither srowa nor Frensley expect any response.

layges’ asked Frenstey co keep hia inforned of any future
developments in this aaccer, E

ynes/zet

: _ [RECORD COPY
: . Od -o/)

py é »-
v EMH P3707
Bay US. Sirings Ban:

Ben

