04-0746. (0082

Panay

BVP

DIRECTOR OF CENTRAL

THE

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20505

Legistative Counsel -

Mr. G. Robert Blakey

Chief Counsel and Director

Select Committee on Assassinations
House of Representatives
Washington, D.C. 20510

Dear Bob:

This letter is to correct some observations made in my
letter of 23 February about the Cuban exile organizations.

have misunderstood some of the views given

meeting at which we put together our comments.

(0090
r
INTELLIGENCE
OLC 79-0113/g
27 February 1979 7
RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

earlier
I seem to
me by my colleagues at the
Call it an “errata

sheet" on my efforts, if you will; perhaps it was in the euphoria

over the readability of the draft: (U)

MIRR (C)

In addition to commenting on the incorrect description of CIA
relations with Johnson and Sturgis, it is noted that the source used _
may be FBI reporting, which is not necessarily likely to be authoritative. (C)

Gobierno en Exilio (C)

Footnote 63. We do not have both references, so withdraw our comments

as to what both documents say; one may say
does not. (U)

Footnote 64. The cited document does
to Somoza in Nicaragua. ‘It does reveal th
but he is not identified as one of the Cub
de Andres. (S)

moc (Cc)

a
Footnotes 18-19. Both ate in one sen
to Batista Falla's
based on an FBI document.
Approval Form." (S)

before

is note

“a

what our copy of one of them

not mention the described visit
at Sierra visited Bogota, Colombia,
an exiles who visited the Isle

tence in the text, and relate
Yet, the first footnote is
» there is no “Operational



cre (Cc) : :

Page 2, Footnote 14. Scratch our negative comment. The initial
concern was over the date of formation of the CRC (late 1960 or early
1961). Stating that it was formed shortly before the 17 April 1961
Bay of Pigs operation is acceptable. (c)

Sincerely,
RBA Ske

S._D. Breckinyidge
Principal Coordinator, HSCA

Distribution:
Orig - Adse
1 - R:Holmes
1 - OS (Sullivan) ; © xe
1 - OGC (Rininger) His
1 -_LA/DDO (Sturbitts) :

1 - SA/DDCI (Touhy)
OLC/SDB/ksn (27 Feb 79)

