# 104-10004-10199

## Page 1

104-10004-10199

I UNCLASSIFIED

GPF

NTERNAL

USE ONLY

Cor

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

DENTIAL

SECRET

SUBJECT (Optional)

FROM:

80h0.0

Chloten

c/ua/3

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and

building)

1.

c/cI SI

DATE

RECEIVED

FORWARDED

EXTENSION

5613

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

NO.

DATE

COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom

to whom.

Drow a line across column after each comment.)

Attached see your

Safermation,

gonnant,

and cer ection to the

ostens, unprented version et

the soport on CHILOOR coveriag

OSWALD's stay in Mendico and Ji-

Luding smartes of the taleghane

Asterseptse

The nay be useful te

yous analyate who are provosing

the rot ot the nterial ent to the

people preparing the simi reporto

Ia eriting this us, & beve sede

certain commonte maa indolged 22 a

corcela enount of enalyale, because

the nehed sucte scend to cold for

Fool free to mke your oun annlycle,

I8 you have ony corrections to mate,

Dicase site then en thie draft ond

reten it to v. I will return tho

drast to you as you sant 16.

Talo ropert vas witten for Internal

ane only ara wue not seant to be

wed estatee the deeney.

10:

11.

12.

Sopho

Whatten

CHES

13.

14.

15.

FORM

3-62

610 USE PREVIOUS

EDITIONS

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 2

13-00000

SECRET

We Dlecover Lee OSUMED In Modeo CIty

CIA all produce me vasy nignificant piece of Information en 10e

OSWALD belor he shot Frunident Kennedy. On 1 October 1963, our lextoo

City Station Intercepted a telephone onll Lee O81670 mie fran someplace

In Marteo Clty to the Sorlot Easey there, ustng hio on no. Sporking

broken kunalan out uns his to ne, O5tALD vas talking to the Embansy

curd, OBNOV, who often aver the phore. OSt at ho hal platted

the Embersy the previous Saturday (28 September 1963) and spoten to a

contal were me he had forsotten, un who hn preen to mend a tele

Made set act at to:

008-10306

cran for him to lashington. He manted to know 1f there vere "anything

n0u." The surd mid 11 the conal us dark 1t ma (Valerly Vaintrovich)

KO81110Y, The starl checked ulth somone elde and said that the sensage

had zone out but no anver had been received. fe then bung up.

Tale piece of Information vas produced fren a telophone tap center

which ve operte jointly

It

020151

---

## Page 3

13-00000

1s blahly secret and

aur faint center produces great

man of telephone intercepts which tre trannertbed and reviewed by our

11 start In Manico City. Ay 9 October, the OSWALD telephone couverse-

tion el' 1 Oetober Ini been transcribed and a mummy of it cobled to

nahington. The name Lee OSWALD munt nothing apocial to our Merleo

City Stutten, but In thatr report they did Julge bin to be ma Amerteen

male.

The cabled report was raceived in linshington on 9 October and chected

an tamellately noted thnt the Leo OMALD phantag tres

the Soviet Inbany in Nactoo City w prohably the Lee OSKALD who bad

defected to th Soviet Union In 1959 and returned to the U5A 1a 1962. On

10 Octaber 1963, the day after the report fran lentes CIty, CIA Headquarters

ment out a cabled report about lee OSWALD's phone call to the Soviet

Babasays the report vant to the Fil, the Dopartment of State (because

OSWALD va a (E oltizen), and to the lavy Department (because he was a

ferner lnrine.) The cabled rayort to these agencies highlighted the

CCARET

---

## Page 4

13-00000

Uklthood that the Ins OMD mentioned was probably the feror defector.

A ony of this one onble ma deliveend by band to the Infration and

Matarlintion servlee, with which se have no cable link. the same day

• Ions cable vent out to Mexico City Inforing our Station of the back-

around ed detector lee Ostri and anting for more interation. our Station

ma Instructod to mas 1ta Infortion on the phone call to the Merico

C14y offices ol the FAI, the latessy, the leval Attache, and the Intera-

tion and Isturalization Service, This was done.

In its arteml report of 9 October, Marico City had sold 1t had o

wrent Anten male leaving the Berlet Inbassy Wi

I October 1963, the day OSWALD phone there. A very sensitive operation

In Mentoo City provides us with sometly teen photographs of many but not

all viastors to the sortet Inbray there, tatum vith telephoto lonsod.

Aocondingly, ve cabled the lavy Department on 24 October 1963 ascing for

• photograph of Loe CIVAID from hle Marine Corps dave so we could compare

photos. We had not recaived this photograph by 22 Hovenber 1963, but in

any event, it turned out that the man photosinghed outside the Soviet

SECRET

---

## Page 5

13-00000

Entensy vas not OEVALD anyway. As abunce would have 1t, none of our

several photo oboestion points in Marico City hail ever telen an identi

Itable pleture of Lee ONALD.

Our Mexieo City Station very often protons Information 11k thie

on US eitisons contacting Sovlot blos embarnies in Manice City. Frequently

the inforation so set lo extremely Incrimantines and on one er tro

occastons ve have even been able to apprebend end retum to the 18A

Auertoan military personnel vho are attempting to defect. In all such

cased, out Sendquerters dent requesis und obtains the spectel paradasion ef

nihi: Che Duputy Direetor Tes Plan to puns the terventory intonation on a l

eitten to other soverment asenetos. Derogatory interantion on Anericuns

10 not treated routinely; in ench euse the DDP or hid Assistant personally

scrutintre the laformation, mie sure it 1e credible, and dreide whether unl

to whom it will be passed. Caly in absolute emergences Is the Nexico C1ty

station authorised to pasa such information Airectly to the MBI office 11

the U.8. Embasay.

At this urstine (13 Decenbar 1963) ve do not know what action the PaI

---

## Page 6

13-00000

and other agencies my have taken baoed en an report. le sumine that the

Fat uny have made looal checks through liedoon antheritten to me 1f

IDe OBVALD vAs astially 1n MaricO CItY On 1 October. Intoad, later te

vastiention has conflemal all the detalle of lle tilo, uhere he stayed,

asd wint he did. To avoid crossins lines vith the 7II, on Mateo Station

undertoot no local Inventiention of Its em. As ve How kno, OSiLD left

Moteo on 3 October and was no longer there when onr saport was jut eut.

Since this telephone tap operation to a jolet our

the Nexicans aloo bad the 1 Coteber Intercept on Lee OSVALD,

place-

22. Homeber 1953

When vord of the shooting of President Sennedy resched the Offlees

of our operating divialons and staffs on the afternoon of Intuiny 22 love

bor 1963, tennistor radios vere turned on everywhere to follow the

tragedy, Wen the nare of Ise OSKALD wal heard, the effect vas electric.

A phone menage than the FBI enne at about the none time, raning OSMAID

2207

---

## Page 7

13-00000

« the positlo esounsin and asting for traces. The masange neo passed

on at one by the Chiat (1, It. Angleton, to it. Strch O'lent of bla

Special Investtenttens Unite Mr. Arity Seter of this Chit Indiately

recognisnd the none of Ion O91110 and sent for his file. At the sam

tina, Mr Sustos of the Marteo Dest, who had written out thrat fayert on

OSHAID on 1O Ostober recounted the nua 1rs redto reparts and vent

after the sane file. It. Ratchhardt, Hexten Deck Chier, wes mas home on

lenve, hoard the rus and phoned in a reminder that ve lnd nothing on

ost Wile ve mr propring e enhle to facieo City anting then for

an on anta, ludes city Atente beera Obt

Vodee of Ameries broadonat and cabled to

un o reminder of the information

the Station had set in on bin

For the mut wal, o dosen poople In the Agency vero contimunly

engaged in handling incuing massases on the case, triting reports to be

cabled out, tracine the mme ventloned, and renarching tiles. Within a

mel, 21 embled reporte had sono out to the luite louse, the state Depart-

mant, and the Fal. Mazy cables of sutdence and ingutry had been sent to

DICT

---

## Page 8

13-00000

SEGRET

our ovamons stattons, and many places of inforation on OSWALD and his

wite hul bom reculved back. The Murico City Station resurched Its

telephone taps very thoroughly and came up with severed more conversations

probahly Juvolvas ChAll, but not estally ntioning this mmy theme

competed him alro to the Coon Connlate In Macleo City. Several Necleane

were arrested and questioned about his activities, alving a sacd jlcture

of whet he was really up to.. Many conferences vre hold with the FaI

Matson Offleer tho anted un for outain notions and passed us interation

Iron the lal investigation. Othe minus nide, & bost of fabrienters,

So outdad vomite

on the enorth

most of which we inventianted. All of there are soon discredited, but they

an stil coming 10-

During this phone of our vart, ve served primrily in support of the

fat, shtch was entranted by the mosident with the major responsiblilty for

the fovestisation. The fil was too buay to supply us with much of 1te

oun inferntion, but ensure vero stren to spocifio questions na posed to

uselet our Investlestion, the Department of State dld photograph Ite entire

SECRET

---

## Page 9

13-00000

SECRET.

file on asian and paso them to us, ma the for elve us a copy of the

surlet Consular file an OVALD which had been publiely firen by the Sovtet

Ambassador to the secretary of State. On Friday 6 Decembar 1963, Deputy

Attornay General. fatsertech turited us to review the FBI's comprekensive

report en the case to male sure our sourens vare not Jeopardired and that

our inferration mis correctly quated. le found the report kishly

Interesting anl no threat to our secarity, as long as 1t was read only

by the authoraed tametizativa bodiet.

1ltur the first feu diro, the CIA Investlention of the case ves

and analynts of the mout important surity cases, and by a for offlous

and amlynta of our Vestera Hemisphere Division.

Arports Faron Mantee

As soon as on Mexico City Station realised that Les OSHALD vas tha

prime spect, it began re-neruening all the wiltten telephone transcripts

In 1ts flles covering the soulet Imbrosy Sor the pertinent perlod. tho

actual tapes vere also revlowed, but any of then bad been erased alter the

SECRET,

---

## Page 10

13-00000

SECRET

norml two socks walt. Severel calla belfaved to tavalve CALD were

Aiscovered and thats contents onbled to lashington, where they wa

Alasentarted to the Vhite House, the State Departient, the Federal

Hure of Inventiention.

OSWALD's name was not netanlly montioned in there additional onllo,

but mindlarty of spooch and various plain points of content lin thon

to hin Thoro collo ar mamried belor 1n chrological order.

They cover the portod fren 27 Septanher 1963 te 3 October 1963, the whole

«pa of OS411)'e visit to burico City as Jater leared fos travel recors

i Reptember - A san shanen the sortal Mastery Attache and le

says lo noddo a visa to so to Odessa, Man anmering says he should oall

15-60-55 and ant for the Concul. Caller ano for the oldrend, and It In

Even to bi (Tero 10 no mootel roon ter linking this enli to sHAlD)

31 September, 4105 FIl - The Cuban Coumulate phoned the Sortet

Conculate, Stivia Dums, Nere ational Clert of the Cuber Consulate

talked to a Boviet offlotal, sayinu that a male Anertenn cittres mas et the

Caban Conmlate askine for a transit vin to pres through cuba on bie my

SECRET

---

## Page 11

13-00000

SECRET

to the Sovlet Unton. She vante to know to won he tale in the Seriat

Consulate and wo told him he wonld bave no probles stout 1t If & Soviet

vies In asured, the Cuban Consulute on sat bin a transit vies and

simply notlly Caban Imterntion urthorities. De Sortet Ftrat enta bey

to malt, and then she has to explate the wole thing ou aste to another

sortet aficial, uno takes her telephone amber on panies to call her

bacho B12vis DURAN concludes this enli by telling the Soviet she berself

has moved and gives her new diress for the soviet Itary bllotts, fe

asts her to phor (Sergey Herovich) EUCTIO (Socond Secretary who pute

Plan to

elve kin the ney

Cultural Attache 10. SIlvia DUrAV sives the Attacho's none on Teresa

PRoud and nis her telephone number.

11 Eggtember, 4986 PM - A Bovlot afFlelal calza Bilvia DUBAI

bank and tollo ber that the "Amertenn" nod boon to see the sortetis and

shern them a letter fron the Soviet Conculate in Washington Indicating that

ho lad been miting for visas for himelf and his vite to so to the soviet

Union for a lons tim, but that no answer bas com fros lashingtos, ands

---

## Page 12

13-00000

LONE

tunt the muit was senetins four er five muths. The "Amertenn" hud

sherm the Borteto a letter shoring ho vas a sember of en areatention la

tever of Orbs and hal clated that the Cubans conld not Elve him a tim

thout a Emmon vin. Bilvin KNAl refoins that they have the same

problems the "Americon" do utill at the consulates they camot sire him a

Immelt vlos unions be In amed of a bovlet vist, even though ho just

ments to

60

to cale to past thero for his soviat vino to be gental le

does not know anyone in Cubie Toy end the comestion es this note.

SILVIA DIRAN says that the vill noto this on his "car," and the sortet

Inconvenienco he ho comel en SIlvia DISAl mya it to all stet-

- Slivle DIRl colle the Sovlet Introy Iron the

Caban Comminte. She myn that she has the Amrlenn with her month. the

Bovtet mmerins note her to mit. Wan another Sevlet teless up the phone,

stire puts the dericon on the Artem tries to talk taster to the

Soviet who answers 1n Englial, The Anten At hin to poat Russias, The

Antenn says that he had bem in the boviet thanay and spoon with the

SECRET

---

## Page 13

13-00000

Stonel

Comud, ant that they had taben hie address. The seriet raylles that he

Ines that. The Anardona then says, somewhet antimaticallys "I ald not

In It them, & went to the Cuban Atmany to ant thas far uy addres

becanna thay have it." The soviet invitos htn to stop by again and sive

then tho address, and the Ansrican afrees to do 80, (In this conVer1at10,

tha America to spentina barlay recamirable fusater.)

As ser as our recordi shan, DElAID ald not plana the sorlet or Duber

Embasstes asain until Monday 1 October 1963- The Intervening days were a

Sunday end a Monday. The contents of his later cella anen to shot be

s contret the berteta on there doin

¿ October, 19:37 AM - A man calls the Berlet Military Attache 1a

broken Russian and says be bad been at that place the previous Betulay

(28 september) and talked to theft Consul. They had sald thay world send

s tolayran to lastington, and he vanted to know 1 there vere anything now.

The Soviets ask bia to call another phone maber and Elves kin 15-60-55, say

Ins to ait for a consula

1 Oopober 10:45 All - (Tate la the phone enll in which OSWALD

SEBBET

---

## Page 14

13-00000

umed his trus nn ent which as therefore cabled to Vanhington on 9

Outater 19630) Ine OSIND called the Sortet Estasay and amouneed kin

on nano, mytay ho hal visital than the previous saturday as spelon

with a Canal, They had suld they vould and a tolder to liabington,

and he mabel to kou if there vero arytains not. He Ad not remember

the nune of the consul, the Sovlat, who me Sabassy guard QUIRDEDY

replies NOSTION, De 16 dArI." OSALD reylled: "Jos, My sate do

OSHALD," To Bertet meued hinel! fer a minute and then unte they

bain't received anything jets OSWALD anted if they hadn't done anythins

o nothing madam

rooted as Jet." O3MIZD started to say: "And what.-.", but the Boviet.

hang 1a

3 October 1963 - A man spening braten spanieh et firet and then

English phoned the Sortet Miltry Attache and anted about a vis The

Attache's Ottoo referrel hin to the consulate, alvias the naber 15-60-55.

The caller vote 1t dom. to attache offietal amused off another

SEANST

---

## Page 15

13-00000

SEGRET

quantion about whether the caller could set e vist, and the converatien

ental (More 1n no spacial renon to tie this in vit oot, the so mo

com to have re-entered the ll at luredo the nune day.)

since the operation through which we tap the Soviet labandy phones

In Mantos City 1s

the Internation on Lea OSNALD also cane to the attention of

President Lors, Natoos siter 22 Bovenber. The nast day, 23 Fovember, ba

called it to the attention of our Chief of Station, to me alremy

vorkins feverishly on the cave. Sinilarly, the Hesteans natteed the

Invalrement of Cuban Consular employee SlIvia DUAl, a Medea matsonal i in 4,

Our Btation auseated that she be arented an interrogated about OSHALD.

The Marten authorities had the sane 1den aul abe and ber bartoni vera

anertel on 23 Hoventer 1903, In the uldat of a pirty at their here. All

tho suents vere noon released but Silvie and ber husband vene questioned

and relented on 25 Novanber 1963.

SIlvia's husband, Horacto DURAl NaverTO, an Industrtal 60016208,

nate undor police interrountion that vien OSWALD ves named as the semensin

---

## Page 16

13-00000

of Prunident Kennedy, his vile had recantsed the name and socalled she

had mited on OBALD when he can to ply for a Calen tut viong

he ranbered abe had nid she dealt with the Sovlet Coomiate « vll

to find out sbether he lnd & Soviet vies. Hornio DURAN zoriled his wife

bnd nuld OSWAID become angry and she had to ell out the Out Conely

Lueblo hauls, to quiet hin.

Silvia DNAl told the sene etory. She vas a lettint syspathizer vita

Jube and had vorked for the Merlean Cuben Institute of Calhoul Rylattons

She toalled OSALD vell, devertbed bin acemately, related hey he lud

anted a Ch

but conta int set me vitiant the anime et a sentet, cro

Ties, and rentered his tiff with the Conal, She adulttel she had phoned

the Soviet Eatasy Boeut ha-

The sm total of the statemente of SIlvia DURAN and her hustand une

to conften that OBALD me In Martoo to it a Cuben vien no he could melt

In caba for he soviet vien, the sortet Consuler flle peased to the state.

Departent In bashington by the soviet babassy contes a long enchase

botwon firet, Is. larion OiliD, and later bor hahand, and the serviet

---

## Page 17

13-00000

SECRET

Consulate in lashlagton abast their regaste for peratesten to retur to

the soviet Union. OSWALD won still witing to the Sovlete in Wankington

about this as late as 9 levenber 1963,

6A1VÍa DURAN me arusted astin on 27 lovester and hold until 29

Hovenber. She told essentially the name story over niali.

Hall plaoed sources within the Caban Inbassy in haxico City stated

that when 811v1e DIAT vns mlonel fren polles amost the firet tine on

25 Morembes, she us guite pleased ulth heroel!. She told bes colleagues

the name story set out sbore, alling only that the Mexican pollee ind

OSALD. Tas reaction within the Caban Inbasay to the nors of President

Kamady's death uns ventre, To dato, thera so nof creatbla Infonation in

CIA fIles vital rould apposs to lint Lee OSKAID mith the Caben soverment

on the Cuben Intelligenoe servlos.

The whalo qention of whether lee OSKAID hnf any secret comection

with the Sorlata er Cubans in Mendeo emnot yet be ansvered, but cortain

parte of the evidenos intloate to the cantaury. silvia DUHAN and the

---

## Page 18

13-00000

SECRET

sovlot Coomiar offletale apple el lin se a mn vith "no Irterle In Cube''

en tha

no hund, and as e un not "jam" in the sortet Esteney, on the

othere Ine very «pannens of llo visits and the phone emile spent actinet ur

snaret role. Is trip to Martoo was not 1teelf e decrat noty he traveled.

uter lia real sna or a class variant of it, Lived eponly 17 Misloan

hotals, and correrpented with the Soviets through the oyen mails about

1t men he cot bock to the 13. Mto trip to Macieo me apparently mme

nocenary bocans 1t mo the senest Cale diplontie Installation care

he could coply for a viad.

perplexing aspset of Ostroto te

triating with the Cabane and

Soviets In Docteo City in his annation in hin enll el 28 Septenber that le

est not lense llo nitrems chen ho us at the seriet Conestate and cure to

the Cutes Consulate borense they bal it. It le hard to explain just what

he monati, but 1t ahould bo romanbored that he vas talkins 1n Russtas, o

Innsse ho could not sanse, at tast taen he can to lesteo he was in the

socase al movina fran lew Orlenns to Tens. He may not bave nonarized

his nou edêrose in Tense, whatever 1t vs, ant my not lnve been able to

SEAR

---

## Page 19

13-00000

Lay hande on 1t whea he ms in the Soviet Consulate that day. Parimpe

he hall enrites alven the alfres to 81lvla DUNNI and sunted to look 1t

up on her carde

A partseularly sintater napect al OCHALD's denlinga with the Boviete

in harteo City arious fron the Ilklihood that he not with Soviet Consul

Valerty Madintrovich KOSTIOV. In bie 1 October phone call to the

Soviet Unbasay, the guind OuTRiNDY suspects that the Connul OSWALD lad

talked to un. I03IKOV 11 he was dart. OSMAID seans to seree with this,

but the SentsPlention 10 very casual. In his 9 November letter to the

Soviet Conmulate in Fiashington, OSWALD gives the kone of the man he denlt

with an "YOUTIN," but there is no person of that exact nans in the seviet

Enhancy In Mexico CIty, ASTIDY 10 escredited as a Consuler Attache all

dona setilly do a lot el consular vert, but he 1a believed to be is

Soviet kas officer, and it is believed that he vorte for Departunt 13 or

the 1GB, the Departuent charged uith sabotage and ascensinations. Me

sapicion tart HOSTIOT 10 • Kob offleor arone fron his vort habite, and

his amociation with othar 1CB offlour. It we hurduned when 1t was

---

## Page 20

13-00000

Pound that ho lnndled a doviet ayent sho vas trafnna to de unbotnge

mr's and thet he turned this suent ever to another KCB offleur nho 1a

definitoly knom to vark for the I3th Depurtment. It la genarally trie

1n KGa vort that sabotage agente ere hamilled enty by 1s"serartaent

oftieers.

Inbnssy garl Ivn Ivnovich Cu00t0 18 hissel, beltevad to be a

10 mn tron rrevions mssiomete os a bogenm ant sertt ht

uniess sene direet evtionce ot bertet complieity in Alscovered, It 16

mst 1lhely that OCNAID's denling vith W0e men OSXEnIOY anil KETIKOY tas

dcad cweer ae cuen co. Mac49

mothing mere then a srsa cotmeldence, a eotnesdence

dne Aa juut

Soviet hahlt of plecing Antellimce mn In the Inesates In positions

vhore they ruonive s lnrge partion ot the vtoitoro and phono coltu All

•l the tlve consular offleuro tn the Sevlet Anlesey are lrom er mepected

Intelllsonoe arttoors, Cortainty 15 OSVALD hal been a seviet asant ia

eminins for un asssinstion asuigrent or even for sabotage vork, the

Boviets vould have stoyped hin fron mking open vialte and nhose enlla to

the fortet inbassy 1n lesdeo after he trled 1t a couple el tined. Our

wngis, enszen

---

## Page 21

13-00000

expertence in Nesteo, stulying the Soviet futelligance servioe at elese

mose, indicatos that they do nato some niatutes and ans smetimes insecure

In thefs methods, but that they do not permist in such blaring emers.

toms Annight on the Calen attitude tomant the arrast of Silvia DURAN

and the Involvement of the Cuban Consulate In the OStill case can be

galand tren two Intercepted phene calls ade between Cubm Fresident

Ovalde DORTICOS and Cubar Anbessador to Macco Joaquin EARNE Armas 0a

26: Hovember 1963, the day after Silvia DUAN uns released frem her first

anasto At 09:40 Al that noming.

Frenteent DORTICOS phoned the Antensmier

the several genttons ah

Antarender had sent in on the arrest of silvia DURAl end the Lee OSHALD

cane. the whole convermation le consistent with the theory that OSHALD

mr'ly muted a vias. The Ambasendor did mention the alterention witel

OSWALD had uith Conaul AZCIl, and he says that hurlean polles bruised

S1lvin DURAl°s arms a little shakins hor to inpreas her vith the importance •

of their gestions. They hal asked her 1f she had been Intimate with

OSWALD and she had dented ft. Prestdent DORTICOS tutoe asted Antesseder

---

## Page 22

13-00000

SECRET

MERADRZ whether the Medenn poldes had assed Salvie DURAN quentions

about "honey," and the Frontdont apparently vinted to know whether the

Meadonna thought the Calone hul ANIA OSWALA MENEy, INADE insteted

the Nextons had not offered SIlVia DURAl mey, and SORTICOS save

up try1ns to put across his paint. President DORTICOS Instructed

MADE tO lnep on questions 811vle DIRM sal to phere lin boat.

At 7:39 Fl that evening Antenner HUz dil enil Frontent

DORICOS beet, instag he had quetioned "that person" agate and ahe bas

nothing now to elt Frostieat DORucos returns to the innue of whether

100:

WANEz periloto in mlan stunt DORTICOS, vas 1e the neativo,

and sives "Aballutely nothins ves aiven to lur." DORticos neems to Eire

1P, and the corertion dies at after a few nor senrel ret

We do not know for sure what unde Fresident DOttICOS press for Informa

tion abort Cuhas pony passed tO OSWALD, but rusTe mere current 1n Vexieo

and even, ve understand, In the USA, that DEWALD had returand fren Matico

---

## Page 23

13-00000

SEINET

C1ty with about 45,000. Fertapo DONTICOS ma tryins to laers whether

the findous police believed that the Cubans hal Sinod OStAID. Ta Y

event, the Caban Ceverment sunt the Mexicans a stiff note at pretent

over fis wrest a detention of Silvia Dial, but the kates

rejectel the note.

SEABET

---

