104-10177-10084)

. 2 Geese
se

Le fey

: Shor,

RET my
SEER Meng ny
9% Ge %
"eee 0,"
701962 Ge
i MAMORANDUM FOR! Chief, CA staff : yro -@ ae
ae
f ee rs
: FROM 1 ia repped evrshv ie A inn me * aa
pve oe
1 SUBJECT ' woos, Saved ce free il,
7 a - WBA
: Ce Tebi? sal vA Wh

1. Reference is mate to your menorandm dSted 22 Octabder 1962
tu-which you requested a Covert Security Approval to utilize subject
es an adviser in the public relations feld wider Project ZWuWTOR.
Coardination must be effected with the FS Diviston thich bas a prior
interest. Your attention 1a directed to our mamoranke concerning
tho Subject which was forviuvied to CI/0A en 1y March 1959.

2. In accoriance with the proviotona set farth in Clandestine
Servicés Instruction Ko. 1005 and Clandestine Services Instruction «
Field No. 10e5, a Covert Security Approval ia granted for the use of
the Bubject, a descrited in your request es ost forth in paragraph 1,
above.

3. Subjects of Covert Security Ayyravale are not Prepresant
, thasselves a5, nor are they to bo reyresonted as, employees of CIA,

: 4. Your attention is calied te the fact that a Covert Security

: Approval docs not constitute camlete compliance with the provisions
of CIA Regulation 10-210. ‘Therefore, if you chowld desire at 8 later
Gate to change the atatus or ute of this indiviewl, 9 renest for
eeprovel to cover any proposed change should be submitted to this
orice.

A 5. Tate eyprovel bocanes trvalid in the event the subject's
LE amy are not utilized within aix montis of the date ef this
 memovandus

eyo 4)
bn
Ae

