r04-t0219-10184

7 SECREL <O

te

i HLHORASDUM FOR: Director
tiational Security Aseacy

: ATTENTION

I Sef 8F BE H

SUBJcCT 3 Oi11ias nssitton Wartia gad bornon Ferguson
Bitesallics- 94337

1 of a report recently received 7
onceraing 2 coaversatlon dbetwo: $

Canadian protessor Dr. fans iunov and Martin in Moscow. Tae

4 attachxent outlines tie conversation kunoy nad with 'artin: and
dudicates that. both. Martin. and Hiteaell are attempting. to leave
the UsSr,

Also attached is a report of ber -0 Fb dary
JboSt at the UssR.Acadexy of sciences Coxputer Center.
3 the FBI has received
i tao info (on Contained in the actachsents.

F02 THE DEPUTY DIRLCTOR POR OPLAATLONS:

Attachwents: E
As stated . i 7 sete t

cidb-09164- COORDINATION:

DOO/CI/R&A/ i: (12/12/75)
Distribution: . -
Arig @1 - Addee wfate | : in arare :
woo sds C/CI w/att ieee 2 _
oes CY/RGA/E. 1 wate : i hue ffs:
- C/BIVD wfatt 1 - DIVD/TCB AA - 262 335°

- Ol- as ze Ab
| anes 527 SECRET an AE

rnin st _



yt Ll :

oe . Dr. H xunov professor, Univer .y of Toronto, visited
Mosecs from Septemoer 1-14, 1975 to undertake research at the USSR”
Acadeny of Sciences, under the USS2/Canada General Exchange

Agreement. The research was carried t the Acade nces
Comouter Centre, 40 Vaveoha Straete i's host
énd on wh rate

pertonality sketch is attached.

On Sevtember 3 while having a coffee break im the Computer
Centre KUNOY was approached by a man who identified himself as
William MARTIN, an American who defected to the USSR in 1950, MARTIN
openly spoke about his past and stated that he now lives in Moscow
and that he is a consultant tol group at the Computer
Centre. He said much of his work is done at home but he does drop
into the Centre weekly.

It was at this time that MARTIN told KUNOV that he would
Ike to get out of the USSR even if he has to run certain risks. He
also said that (Bernon) MITCHELL feels the same and has voiced his.
desire to the Soviet authorities.

i : MARTIN asked KUNOV if he might enquire with the Canadian

i ‘authorities on his behalf to see what his status would be in this

} country or if there was any chance of his being allowed in here as

{ @ political refugee. KUNOV agreed to contact the Canadian Embassy

! in Koscow to see what the official view would be and notify MARTI!

i at-a later date. MARTIN seemed most pleased at this and left KUNOY

: his’ heme telephone number, cautioning him not to say anything over
hone that would tip off the Sovict authorities as to his intentions.
his first- meeting lasted a little over one half hour and took place
in the coffee lounge area of mn There were other Sovicts

present in the lounge, however, vas not among them. KUNOV does
not believe the others were. aware 6: ein conversation.

On the 5 September 75 KUNOV called at the Canadian Embassy,
Moscow and spoxe to a doorman asking him wno he might speak to

regarding some Americans living in the USS% who would. Lik
2. The doorman referred KU!OV to the office of a
KUNOV the ke to a Uf wi 10 stated that he w: r

er Spatteuts fd K ¥ enouired about the Americans
living in_the_USSR a@nd-asked could they be alloved to immigrate to
Canada. The Embassy official would not ommit hinself and stated that
KUNOV should enquire officially with the nearest office of Manpower ;
and Imaigration when he returned to Canada. KUNOV did not give this i
official MARTTI or MITCHSLL's names. “OY telephoned MARTIN after
the Enbassy visit and stated that the renly from the Imbassy was
negative. MARTIN seemed upset that KUNOY should phone him, then he
later stated that it would probably be all right.

MARTIN met. KUHOV on at least two occasions after the
5 September, all at the Centre, usually in the coffee lounge and in
the general presence of others. They Spoke English at all times.
MARTI thanked KUNCY for his trouble in enquiring at the Embassy and
cautioned KUNOY not to get personally involved wi
venture 2s. it would be bad news. KULOY orenised MARTIN that he would
check with Canadian Manpower and Immigration authorities on. the
vatter when he returned to €ancda

nim in this



_ imi is \ 7
+ The fol.sing observations were ma.. by KUNOT
regarding MARTIN: 4
(a) Physical Descrintion =
5°7' or 3" tall, fair hair, creveuts balding at the
temples, pct oellied.
~ may suffer from 2 nervous condition, and bears the
mark of a man who has experienced rot tines.
| =~ always dressed with a shirt, tie and Kete
= spoke perfect Inglish with a slighz Russian accent
on certain words.

(b) MARTIN’ provided KUNOV with the following home address
and telephone number, cautioning him that his
. . telephone was bugged. :

= telephone number ~ 433-03~81
117421 Obrucheva Street
Building 4-1
Apt. 12
Moscow, USSR

(c) MARTIN stated that his friend MITCHELL lives, in
Leningrad and is married to the Dean of the Music
Conservatory in Leningrad. MITCHELL is very unhappy
and he has openly asked Soviet authorities for

rmission to leave Russia and return to the USA.
pparently he hes never been able to adjust to, the
Soviet way of life and is now very. dosperates
WITCHELL is willing to divorce his wife. and take any
risk to get out of the USSR. To date however he hes
been met with a wall of silence by the Soviets.

(a) MARTIN is unmarried. He claims to have a confortable
apartment and feels that he has adjusted to the Soviet

fe and is acceoted in the USSR.. He does not want to
return-to the: USA. but. would like to get out of the USSR.
He said he would have quite a story to tell about his
life in Russia as well as his past and that hevwuld nave
no compunctions about telling all abcut the Russians.
MARTIN at one point stated that he would not consider
attempting to escape from the USSR.

: (e) MARTIN claims that he is constantly harrassed by Soviet
officials. His apartment has been broxen into on

. system. He has also refused to show up for work in the
past as a form of protest. MARTIN also indicated that
he has had several contacts with Americans in fosc ov.
and that they have not shown any animosity towards hin.
He actually dated an American woman for some time but
did not mention her name. . : :

HARTIN stated that in the past American Journalists

2

views but their reazests have been. refused dy
authorities. ile said he hoped sone 427 that. oi
these jourralists - Je to just knock on nis

door and talk to hin. “B

iene at iphannareenn tte oer

sian.
OL

several occasions and he refused to use the Soviet mail ©

have tried.to contact him many times, asking for inter- :

i



Sa ee etna te) SEUNG a

ULUViile

‘ponths
consultant in anotner &

j ESSEEEEEEEETE mr

\ is
Russians. in the Acadeny. He 2lso stated that. he felt

wo =
for approximately

__f WAST hes been at the centre
]] Prior to that he worked as a
=Acadeny of Sciencese _|
f his work at homes |

he was not accevted by the
waa was

£

TIi does

a basically nest mn.

KUNOY said his motives for trying to assist EARTIN
and MITCHELL are: based. on husinatarian grounds, only, .as he feels
they are suffering under the Soviet system. He does not. intend
to take any further action to assist them in leaving the Soviet
Union. KUM!OV hopes to return to the Soviet Union next year for
amore extended period of study. tee

This Gsereest ty Ge“ prerety ofthe Sovenseeat @
Goods: Nh As prasided on enedtisn tht is for ee ete)
te fie tatetigeze crasucty ef Os mecehizg Coreacect
fab Witt eet bs Gcltsulind sidkeet ths express perce
Gas Eoreineeet of Ceska,

fe phet Cerecet est Us prepdth G2 qorcercemtl ts
Qesad, est erased seve riserse Solari par es
avis aeinkcts da neaselgeewucts de guarere texte
ab th coties Gee Ul seatié oe SS
ssoSile: rans, Tavtciation .cxgrenta do. guammeced eoSea,



A number; of sources. were impressed frank=
ness and his willingness to speak out, at social gatherings,
on current problem arcas in the Soviet system. For example
he discussed dissidents in Soviet society and commented on one
occasion that: present. day Soviet society allowed for far. greater
freedom of expression than had been allowed previously. He
gaid that things were being said in Moscow that one would never
have heard in Stalin's era. Nevertheless, jargued that
@ return to “terror tactics” under Soviet rule was always poss-
ible. He considered that such tactics were unlikely at this
time because of the personal philosophy of Premier Leonid BRESHHEV.

i is reported to be the son of a scientist and party
' member a’ msel£ is an admitted party member, He is married
| ° with three children. He is sidered to. be one of the top ex-

t perts on his field in the Soviet Union. He mentioned
H having ,travelled to other Western countries two or three times.
Bis English is good. He was very friendly towards gaur~
ing his‘ visit but it was observed that he did not associate with
three cther Sovi arch students at the same institution. On
ons eccasion aaa was berated quite severely by a Soviet
Embassy official for Ris failure to report periodically, ‘as re-

quired, to the Exbassy, later told a source that this Em-
bassy official. "could be a dangerous.man to your country".

ri

at
= We pbsert doxenet ext be propiété ty greveneaett
Gaal, 8 est coanstigd ars isere Cutiiccicn jar his
Seals fz cesselgremmts ds gomertescet  destisctcine
2 Eb comttion get ma cate da sécest nasal pus
woshide seas Coiterisatea expense és poreneeest code

SECRET

tects Lees one



/ : -
ens a HEeHE = i
i alerereiat \ Washington, D.C, 25358 4
j U8/75/539 : <4 j

{ TSWLO-118-36 2 December 1975

BECRET

Res William Hamilton MARTIN, and
Bernon Ferguson MITCHELL

Purther to your letter of 6 October 1975, wa have
identified and spoken to the Canadian professor, Dr. Hangs
KUNOV, referred to in your letter as Harry KERNOV. The
attachment outlines the contact batween KUNOV and MARTIN
and MITCKZLL, KUNOV has proven co-operative as a source
on previous occasions and we believe he will continue to
aseiat us within limite, cieeeeie

Also attached is a report on
KUNOV‘'s host at the USSR Acadony of Selencea

Computer Centar. In addition to any comments you may
wish to make concerning MARTIN's aj 3 to KUNOV,
we would welcoas. an assessment off it available.

The F.B.1. has received the information con-
tained in the attachments,

Yours truly,

i
H

}

i

{

t

}

{

{

i

5

| . Assistant Liaison Officer.


ULUie i

MARTIN and 3.7, MIPCTLL

uw.

et Vote

£ : Dr. Hans KUNOV professor, University of Toronto, visited

Moscow from September 1-14, 1975 to undertake research at the USSR

Academy of Sciences, under the 53SR%/Canzia Generai Exchange

Agre' ent e research was carried out at the je2
CADE .

‘

y

;

i

pL a‘
t

t

|

f

On Sertember 3 while having a coffee break in the Computer
Centre KUNCY was apvroached by a man who identified himself as
William MARTIN, an American who defected.to the USSR in 1959. MARTIN
openly spoke about his ‘past an t he now lives in Moscow
and that he is a consultant to oup at the Computer
Centre. He said much of his work is done at home but he does drop
into the Centre weekly.

: Tt was at this time that MARTI told KUNOV that he would

{ tke to gst out of the USSR even if he has to run certain risks. He

| also said that (Berncn) MITCHILL reels the same and has voiced his
‘desire to the Soviet authorities.

i MARTIN asked KUNCV if he might enquire with the Canadian

{ authorities on his behalf to see what his status would be in this

i country or if there was any chance of: his being allowed in here as

{ @ political refugee. KUNOV arreed to contact the Canadian Embassy

i in Moscow to see what the official view would be and notify MARTIN

i at a later date. MARTIN seemed most pleased at this and left KUNCY

i his home telephone number, cautioning hin not to say anything over

| Phone that would tiv off the Soviet authorities as to nis intentions.
|
1
i
i}
H
|

is first meeting lasted a little over one half hour and tcok place
in the coffee lounge area..of +) « There were other Soviets
present -in the lounge, however,| iwas.not among them. KUNOV does
not believe the others were awaré 6: eir conversation.

On ‘the 5 Seotember 75 KUNOV called at the Canadian Embassy,
Moscow and spoke. to a doorman asking hin who he might speak to

regarding seme Americans living in the USSR who would like to immigrate

i to Canada. The doorman referred KUNOV to the office of a
{ KUKOV +! U/M who stated that he was the
i under secretary to KUNOV enquired about the Americans
# | |. tldwing in the USSR and asked could they be alloved to: imaigrate to

H

Canada. The Embassy official would not ommit himself and stated that,
KUNOV should enquire officially with the nearest office of Manpower
and Immigration when he returned to Canada. KUNOV did not cive this

. official MARTIN or MITCHELL's names. -KUNOV telephoned MARTE after
the Embassy visit and stated that the revly from the Smbassy was
negative. MARTIN seemed upset that KUNOT should phone him, then he
later stated that it would probably be all right.

MARTIN met KUNOV on at least two occasions after the
5 September, all at the Centre, usually in the coffee lounge and in
the general presence of. others. They spoxe English at all times.
MARTIN tha KUNOY for his trouble in enquiring at the Embassy and
cautioned KUNOV not to get personally involved with him in this
venture as it would be bad news, KUNOV sromised MARTIN that he would
check with Canadian Manpower and Immigration authorities cn the
matter when he returned to



Ce a *.

Veviig! |

~ =

fp ding ne fottewtas cbser vations wert sade by EUNOV
-. Pegar MA rs sae aiiiiece

{a) Physical Deseristion
5°7' or 3" tall, fair hair, crewcut, balding at the
temples, pot bellied. i
= may suffer from a nervous condition, and bears the

mark of a man who has experienced rough times.
= always dressed with a shirt, tie and jacket. i
= spoke perfect. English. with a slight Russian accent
on certain wordse .

(b). MARTIN vrovided KUNOV with the following home address
and televhone number, cauticning hin that his
. telephone was bugged.
= telephone number - 4133-03-81 =... .
117421 Obrucheva Street
Building 4-1
Apt. 12
Moscow, USSR

(c) MARTIN stated that his friend MITCHELL lives in

: Leningrad and is married to the Dean of the Music

‘< Conservatory in Leningrad. MITCHELL is very unhappy

. and he has openly asked Soviet authorities for °

formission to leave Russia and retwra to the USA.
pparentiy he has never been able to adjust to the
Soviet way of life and is now very cesperate.

MITCHELL.is. willing to divorce his wife and take any

risk to get out of the USSR. To date however he has

been met with a wall of silence by the Sovietse

~ (a). MARTIN is unmarried. He claims to have a confortable
¥ apartment and feels that he has adjusted.to the Soviet
‘life and ig accested in the USSR. Ee does not want to

He said he would have quite a story to tell about his

life in Pussia as well.as his past and that he wuld have .

no compunctions about telling all about the. Russians.
<MARTIN at one point stated that he would not consider
attempting to escape from the USSR.

- (e) MARTIN claims that he is constantly harrassed by Soviet
officials. His apartment has been broken into on
several occasions and he refused to use the Soviet. mail

‘system. He has also refused to: show up for work in the
past as a form of protest. MARTIN also indicated that
he has had several contacts with Americans in Moscow
and. that they have not. shown any aninosity towards hin.
He actually dated an American, woman for some time but
did not, nention her name. = é :

}. MARTIN stated that, in.the past. American journalists

ve been refused by Russian
d sone cay that one of
Jeo just knock on his ..

views but their requests hi
authorities. He said_he hope

these journalists voulgs
door ais talk to him. CEA

Sp eannan tanta estate staseninangerauanasiontieiocsctsonioeeninenaaticgnoutegee=ateemeoely

return to the USA but would like to get out of the USS2.

have tried to contact him rany tines, asking for inter :



4

fdoes not claim to know
tre for approxizazely 6

bee oe ih he wo;
= me—Academy of Sciencese |
does much of his work at home. aaa
ae |he was not accepted by the
Russians in the Acadeny. He also stated that he felt MARTIN was
a basically nest mane 7 -_ EE

4

peonsultant inane:
i 7 (MAE

} asassssics

KUNOV said his motives for trying to assist FARTIN
and MITCHELL are based on huninatarian grounds, only, as he feels
they are suffering under the Soviet system.. He does not intend
to take any further action to assist them in leaving the Soviet
Union. KUNCV hopes to return to the Sovict Union next year for
a more extended period of study.-- - ete

Ti recent’ be ty pretty ct the. teremmet ef.
fears This petit on cocdibos tot fis ter se eect)
Qty the “Latchigens coamechty ef Oe receidag Goreactel
. ge Dt Noon be dettssiied abet 29 oper pera
oo Leb tba sRpretemest Gaia, 22 : ‘|
to pert Gxroset ect B prevtd ts. qrcrereeneet. fY 7
Qecada, 0 ost coomatid sons. ttters “otitis pe
fads exces 2 ceemyaenests fy prantracaact. deviate -
@ 8 Bence Ge wie dans mo HE a
erbfie ty Fecetstoa enpress é2 geeracatct c-..)) aa

(e)



A number of sources were impressed frank-
‘and his..willingness, to speak out, at socia. gatherings,
on current problem areas in. the Soviet. system. Por example

he ‘discussed dissidents in Soviet society and commented on one
éccadsion that present day Soviet society allowed for far greater

- freedom of expression than had been allowed previously. He

Said that things ‘were: being- said in Moscow e would never
heard in Stalin's era. Nevertheless, argued that
a@Seturn to “terror tactics" under Soviet rule Was always poss-
Qblé. He considered that such tactics were unlikely at this

time because of the personal philosophy of Premier Leonid’ BRESHNEV.

is reported to be the son of a scientist and party
member and he himself is an admitted party member. He is.married

with three childre He is considered to be one of the top ex-
perts on his field | anit the Soviet Union, He mentioned
having. travelled to other Western countries two or. ee times.
His English is good, He was very friendly towards dur-
itig his’ visit but it was observed that he did not associate with
three other Soviet research students at the same institution. On

one occasion he was berated quite séverely by a Soviet

Ehbassy offi 3 fatiure to report periodically, as re-
gaired, to the Embassy. later told a source that this Em-

bessy official "could be a dangerous man to your country”.
r)

i
erties ot

eee ee
sets, be provldsdss ea cesta at efor ast:
io: bateigenes comnveiy: cf te: eocaicog oversea’
Gi Rock be deasstied witct the expass prredicizt
Ge teremmest ot Coen,
abet Gormest et be previdlé ty peremcaet
Cem, Bast consatiged eees riser Gutiisaisa par les
2 sea ankes @ maukuaut & goat talictin
Sgt DW cocttion get tole Ga sith ma wll ae
edie ons “Petehaia egress & grement canbe, cssiers : eee

e



1
i
{

*could. supply any basic background material on Mitchell and Martin.

: I amusing in this instance as this
information has been passed to us informally.

ai . ‘ii i ans)
- US/7$/539
boy ;

Dear Harry,

We have learned that on the evening of 8 September 1975,
James WILKINSON of the U.S. Embassy in Moscow had a conversation
ef. interest with a Canadian Embassy Officer. Wilkinson stated
that while attending a social function at the Australian Embassy,
he engaged Canadian Consular Officer Geoffrey FARROW in conver-
sation, Farrow advised that ho had been recently approached by
Dr. Harry KERNUY, an Associate Professor of English at the
University of Toronto in Canada, regarding American defectors
RTIN, Kernov implied that
tact With one or both of the

Bernon F. MITCHELL and Wil
he had had receat personal c

Martin and Mitchell permission to emigrate to Canada. Farrow
furnished no further details regarding Kernov's contact.

During the same conversation Farrow asked Wilkinson if he

Wilkinson replied that he. would pass Farrow's request on to
the Consular Section of the Embassy. Subsequently, Farrow was
given an unclassified article concerning the defectors which
appeared in the Juno 1961 issue of True magazine. .

We would, of course, be interested in any indications that
Martin and Mitchell are attempting to. leave tho. USSR.and would
be grateful for any information you may be able to provide us
in regard to the above. : a

Yours,

DDO/CI/R&A/T 20ce7s)

Distribution: Fe 7 saantspecaacr tte cs tot
Orig. § 1 - Addee ie amine *

: 1 = 165-2720

1 - Reading File ~~:

