104-10179-10247 :

eicterjeiea
TRANSMITTAL *
4 :
J] spg tocsmrormanon ateorr ——N ; SECRET
Jono. teacpaais TOUTING 1
yur SAcIntel Reports [3 2 TE
i PT Ei aE?
CORR acetal 26 DI [aifeniceenccoiisty

WH/SA 13 TDCSDs-3. 661,422

INFORMATION COPIES,
CI/OPS, CI/IC, FI, FI/D, FI/INT 6, I, CA 2, CA’PEG, DODS, WH 8
DcI, D/DCI, DDP, ADDP,

; fOATE DisTEN PRECEDENCE
26 Mey 1964 Recor ]
Sitiimmanon ASD ON aE ST
rsavtnt] a s8 ae Bs jf i,
rz NO PROJECT
peation 2) ‘SA/SO/BHL [— —| Liaison * :
“SO/AR2
A Hacer | B
Shale
MouesteD | stare ae q wer | [oe | ee)
RANDUNG NSTEO iON:
vay, aA
THIS 1S AN EXCLUSIVE FOR USIB MESSAGE Nee OTtY

EYES ONLY FOR ATTORNEY GENERAL KENNEDY setae
CSO: BASIC REPORT WAS NOT SENT TO DCI 0 Not
RECOMMEND FOR EXO

@ $ VERNAL USE ONLY

FOR NSA PASS TO SIGCEN FOR TRANSMISSION pred? ST. ot
ra
NO HARD COPIES TO ELECTRICAL snaussies pacaed, 2

NO FOREIGN DISSEM/CONTROLLED DISSEM/NO DISSEM ABROAD/BACKGROUND USE ONLY

SECRET :

coe rue 2

TPR ee cecum anes cones

el



om
1D DISSEW ‘NO DISSEM A... J/BACKGR

—_——.. CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY °
~ Intelligence Information Cable
COUNTRY. CUBA TOCS DB-3/661 ,422
DATEOF =—-23-26 MAY 1964 piste 26 MAY 1964
INFO. :
‘SUMECT

ANTICIPATION OF RADIO CONTACT BY MANUEL RAY

RIVERO FRON CUBA TO MIAMI, FLORIDA
PLACE & UNITE: 2
DATEACG. (26 MAY 1964) _ ‘ Od
SOURCE FIELD REPORT NO.

AND

ROGELIO CISNEROS DIAZ, WHO IS ACTING CHIEF OF JURE DURING THE

(APPRAISAL:
ABSENCE OF MANUEL RAY RIVERO.

TO ARMY STAFF COMM: EXCLUSIVE FOR ACSI, GENERAL FITCH; NAVY DNI,
ADMIRAL TAYLOR; AIR FORCE AFCIN, GENERAL THOMAS; TO DIA: EX-

CLUSIVE FOR GENERAL CARROLL
TO STATE: NO DISTRIBUTION EXCEPT TO MR. THOMAS L. HUGHES

a TO NSA : EXCLUSIVE FOR GENERAL BLAKE
TO FBI : FOR MR. S. J. PAPICH
“1. WHILE THE MIAMI REPRESENTATIVES OF THE JUNTA -REVOLUCIONARIA 1

CUBANA (JURE, CUBAN REVOLUTIONARY JUNTA) HAD HOPED THAT MANUEL RAY

RIVERO WOULD HAVE ESTABLISHED RADIO CONTACT FROM CUBA TO MIAMI ON

SATURDAY, 23 MAY 1964, NO CONTACT HAD BEEN FSTABLISUED AS OF

4:00 P.M, ON TUESDAY, 26 MAY 1964. JURE REPRESENTATIVES BELIEVE 4

THAT NO NEWS IS GooD NEWS AND THE ONLY REASON FOR THIS IS THAT
: RAY HAS NOT YET HAD AN OPPORTUNITY TO COMMUNICATE WITH THEN.

‘The cxatertal contains tnformation sfecting the National Defeom of the Catted Statey witnie the meaaing of the Raplonage Laws, Tie
3 DSC. Been. 7S and Th the Wenemission of fereiation of which im any manner to an Unauthorised pervoa ls prabibited by law.

SECRET NO FOREIGN DISSEM/CONTROLLED DISSEM/ EES] :
NO DISSEW ABROAD/BACKGROUND USE ONLY \

MELO A AMMY/ACSI NAVY AIR SF GEER KX MEX XX BSL X BOX IOE XDEKXSAXIOK FCI

STATE/DIR (EYES ONLY ATTORNEY GENERAL) DDI AD“CI1__AD-NE - 2X0

TO: NSA

