# 104-10192-10028

## Page 1

104-10192-10028

FROM

IDEX DIVES IN

10019.300-30

LASSIFY TO MENOM

xu to mẹ ng 19-97fr22

MAVAVE

MIG 163

_ROUTING

5 :

SECRET

BET 10 BRANCH =

31G

ACTION: IW

INFO.

FILE RID D

DESTROY O

: 8

X. RID COPY (COPY TUBED TO: CS. DO AT 1875 - DD)

DCI, D/DCI,

EX DIR, DOP, CS/RF

ADDP.

CA/PROP,

Fl, FI/D . FV/INT6

CS/DO, 500 445S/° "2 C1, CH/PS, DO/M 4, HPS 3, WH8, WH/C 12_ FI/SAG, RI/AN

SECR

TISZIITZ

I5 NOV 65 22257 IN 98559

DIS INFORCE LANT BASR CITE, WAVE 7360 INSTERST ACTINO TE

INTEL TYPIC

SUPDATA: NO PIRCUECT.

ANCP-128, REPORT N$ 57/65. 18 NOVEMACAT

1965. COMMENT FARA 1 BASED ON UFG 7735; PARA 2 ON UFG 7737

(POUCH). RI INDEX JIMENEZ. FILED I921ITE

REPORT CLASS SECRET CONTROLLED DISSEM

CUBA

SUBJ: PLANS FOR RAIDS ON CUSA EY COMANIL'S L AND INSURRECTIONAL

MCVEMENT FOR REVOLUTIONARY RECOVER (MIRE)

DOI: 18 NOVENGER 1965 PDA: UNITEO STATES, MIAMI (19 NOVEMBER 1965)

UF: 7738

SOURCE: A CUSAN WELL KNOWN IN THE MIAMI EMIGRE COMMUNITY WHO

HIS INTERNATIOHAL SHIPPING INTERESTS. SOURCE'S REPORTING ON

IW COMMENT:

D14-6-9514

D19-9-91

1-4%

WH: REC

RELEASING I WO

Subilectre

Renoved from

CS Classification: 17-3-9-020.

+O8 466-6841563

15 Fold: 2

19-300-20

ISNOMEN

121

8

-CROFILMES

The gir 1956

DATE DISTRIBUTED

TDS DB-315/03784-65

_X I ROUTINE

PRICRITY

BASED ON:

UFG 7738

N. P. (AMOT/120)

0042 Z

LAISON: *

@XCLUDED FRON

SECR

T

DOWHORADINO AND

WATTAMEN TRADED.

KFRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy Na

---

## Page 2

14-00000

INDEX O TES ENO

CLASSIFY TO PILE NO

CLASSIFLED MESSAGE

SECRET

BILE BID: D

RET TO BRANCH D

DESTROY O S10 --

455 189

ROUTING

FROM:

ACTION

NO

IX RID COPY

VR, FILE, ADOP, CA 2, CA PEG, CA/PROP, CI/OPS, CIC?. R

RD., FI/INV

PAGE 2 IN 98559

MARITIME ACTIVITIES IN THE CARIBOLAN HAS BEEN TIMELY ANE RELIABLE.

AS OF AECUT. JUNE 1965 HIS REPORTING ON OTHER TOPICS HIS IMPROVED

IN DEPTH AND SIGNIFICANCE.

TW. COMMENTI

TDES:

TROL NE

BASED Je

PRIORITY

DATE DISTRIBUTED:

RELEASING I WO

LIAISON

EXCLUTES

BES-ARPICATION

SECREI

REPRODUCTIS

BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PRIESTED.

Copy No...

---

## Page 3

rose 3000

SECKtI

went

SECRET

COUNTRY CUBA

DATE OF

INFO.

18 NOVEMBER 1965

NO FOREIGN DISSEM CONSULD DISSEM

CENTRAL INTELLIOENCE AGENCY

Intelligence Information Cable

• POUTINE

TDCS 03-315103784-65

DISTR. 19 MOVEMBER 1965

— SUBJECT

PLANS FOR RAIDS ON CUES BY EMIGRE ELEMENTS

PLACE S

DATE ACO UNITED STATES, MIAMI (19 NOVEMEER 1965)

SOURCE

AND

REF

IN 98559

FIELD REPORT NO. UFG 7738

AFPRAISALI A CUBAN WELL KNOWN IN THE MILI! EMIGRE COMMUNITY WHO HAS. INTERNAT:ONAL

SHIPPING INTERESTS. SOURCE'S PEZORTING ON MARITIME ACTIVITIES IN THE.

CARIBBEAN MAS BEEN TIMELY AND PELIABLE. AS OF ABOUT JUNE 1965 MIS

REPORTING ON OTHER TOPICS HAS IMPROVED IN DEPTH AND SIGNIFICANCE

1. ON 18 NOVEMBER 1965 THE PUERTO RICO GRANCH OF COMANDOS L

WAS PLANNING TO STAGE A RAID CR CUBA SIMILAR TO THAT WHICH TOOK

PLACE 14 NOVEMDER. (FIELD COMMENT. THE MIAMI HERALD REPORTED

THAT COMANDOS L, CUBAN. REPRESELITATION IN EXILE, AND THE FRANK PAIS

MOVEMENT CLAIMED CREDIT FOR THE RAID ON THE COAST OF HAVANA ON 14

NOVEMBER.) A 57MM CANNON WILL BE USED IN THE PLANNED RAID. (FIELD

COMMENT. A RECENT REPORT FRC'S AN INDEPENDENT SOURCE REPORTED

THAT THE COMANDOS L PLAN TO COITINUE RAIDING CUBAN TARSETS AT

THE RATE OF ONE EACH WEEK.)

Tia mie US its and 9 tir amid or cavela no livinet

States within the meaning of the Espionsge

any mander to an' unauthorized person is

GAOUP

inshibited by law.

NO FOREIGH DISSEM, CONTROLLED DISSEM

SECRET

STATE/INER.. DLA

ARMY/ACSI NAVY AIR

ICS

LENS

SECDEF

TREGSIE!

NSA NIC. AID: USIA OCI

ONE, OCT ORK

BORCER PATROL

EXO

COAST GUARD, CUSTOMS,

---

## Page 4

14-00000

MYO A60 (10)

NO FOREIGN DASSEU COXITOLE PASTY IN

TDES D0 15:03754-65PAGE: 2

SECRET

20312312.

REVOLUTIONARY SECOVERY )e IS PLANNING AN ATTACK ON CLEA ANICH WILL

TAKE PLACE IN THE NEAR FUTURE. APOLEO UMENEZ AGUILERA RIS TEEN

21. 371201

ASKER TO PARTICIPATE IN THE OPERATION JU FIELD COMMENT. MIRRIS

RECENT PLANS FOR ACTION HAVE BEEN FOR ATTACKS ON SHIPS INVOLVED IN

THE CUBAN TRADE. HOWEVER, A RECENT REPORT FROM AN INCEPENDENT

SOLACE REPORTED THAT ON 15 NOVENGER WHEN BOSCH DISCUSSÃO THE 14

NOVENEER PAID, HE COMMENTED THAT THIS IS A FAYORABLE TINE FOR

COMMANDO-TYPE ACTION AGAINST CUSA.)

3O FIELO DISSEM: CINGSO, CINCLINT,

CEMKWESTFOR, MINUI REPS

OF STATE, FBI, LINS, CUSTOMS, FORDER PATROL, USCG.

PI DOI 18 NOT- 65 II

END OF MESSAGE

SECRET

---

