104-10063-10182|

ee * > SEpRET

=— No. ie! ural Dissem Abroad {5 peTuRnyy. ie ee ay
: jontrollad “"ssem a aeproonee

2S SUN 973

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director - i
United States Secret Service

SUBJECT : Political and Guerrilla Training of
: Black Militants é

r ‘ i
1. A highly sensitive and reliable source has
reported the following:

S a. Since early March 1973 the Curiel Apparatus, —
a Paris based revolutionary support group for third world
revolutionary moverents, has been supporting seven

. American black militant/hijackers (not further identified)
who were formerly in Algiers. This group has been given ~
the code name “BAXER", The black activists have been
living clandestinely with Apparatus collaborators in
the suburbs of Paris under instructions to stay close to
the hones where they are lodged in order to avoid coming
to _ attention of the French authorities.

b. At the 2 June 1973 Paris meeting of the
-Curiel Apparatus Direction Committee, Henri CURIEL,
founder and leader of the Apparatus, stated that seven
members of the "BAKER" group will receive political
and guerrilla technique training in France, which wi
last the entire month of August. According to. CURIEL,
this group will return to the United States in September.

——————————

c. The importance attached by CURIEL to the
“BAKER” group was challenged by a leading Apparatus activist
who complained that the "BAKERS" do not meet the criteria
of the national liberation programs established by the
Apparatus, since there is no objective possibility that
the "BAKERS" will be able to change the structure or
affect the policies of the United States Government. :
CURIEL responded that the “! * are a special case;
even though they are small in number, if they can create
spectacular incidents in the United States with the help
of the training and support given by the Apparatus, they

EXEMPT FROM GEXERIL DECLASSIFIeATion

OF £0. 11052, exeueriog CaTESORY:

5 EBD, , (8) or (4) (cinta ene C3 am)
Asi OESTiBALLY CESLABSIFIED OF

WARNING NOTICE
SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES
AND METHODS INVOLVED

No Foreign Dissem/No Dissem Abroad
Controlled Dissem

SECRET 4 33



14-00000

‘ ae
5 ~ \ QEPRIT if
7 7 SUR (+ i

4, Foreign Disshn/No Dissem Abroad \t : . cat

Controlled Dissem :

will be striking at the root of the imperialist repression
of the national liberation activity throughout the world.

2. Comment: The following are American militants/
hijackers, who formerly were residing in Algiers and i
some of whom may be the unidentified individuals dis-
cussed above: : aeateacna He

a. George Edward WRIGHT aka Larry BURGESS
: b. George BROWN ska Harold SINGLETON |

c, Melvin MCNAIR

da. Jean Carol MCNAIR

at

e. Joyce Tillerson BURGESS

£. Nathaniel BURNS aka Sekou ODINGA
- ‘ _ g- Larry Neil MACK
= h,. Catherine KERKOW

- 3. The above information has also been furnished
to the Federal Bureau of Investigation. It is provided
with the proviso that it will receive no further dissemi-
nation er than to your appropriate field offices, . :
without the prior approval of this Agency; and that any -
reference to it in internal documents will state only
that it was obtained from a confidential source, with
ne mention of the Agency originating this report. It

: ds -requested that no action is undertaken on the basis
of this information without prior coordination with this
Agency. We are particularly concerned for the security

. / O£ our sources. :

FOR THE DEPUTY DIRECTOR FOR OPERATIONS:

James Angleton iiseal
CIR-316/01514-73 Vite ie : ae

No Foreign Dissenp/No Dissem Abroad
Controlled Dissem

SECRET theo,



14-00000

? . Y
ae No Foreiga Dissem/No Dissam Abroad
: i! Controlled Dissem

& o> oF ole a

Originate ; JLong; jah; 20 June 73
Based on: 3i23, 5 June 73
Source:

Distribution: Sieue :

Original § 1 - Addressee
—t ~ cI/so emo -Frrec ie Chan '
1 - IPAN i
2 - CI/LSN i
~ BRUSSELS :
CERTAIN/5)o}

i= : P/Curiel
1 - PG Chrono

(- cise Duipans e Somk Sire ( 2

No Foreign Dissem/No Dissem Abroad’
Controlled Dissem

oF SECRET
