104-10036-10126

Tiree Sr
_UFG-1636
4 Octobor 1962

S-E-C-R-E-T
__| CONTROLLED DISSEM

B, CAPMONG
¢

REPORT COVER SHEET

ut SMWAVE

TaCECROUNO OATA AND COMUERTI

GYROSE

Source: AMBUD-1 obtninod tho infurmation from Gerarda
QUESADA a representative on the CRC who in turn received
a letter from an ANIBAL in Cuba. Date of letter is

12 September,

We regret that the names of the ships are badly garbled,
the MISTURIN is probably thé MICHURIN whereas no better
‘solution could be found for SEBONEK, It would be most
appreciated if Headquarters/Reports could manage to
expedite the procurement of the list of Soviet flag
vessels available in SR/Reports.

The information here will also supplement that previously
forwarded under UFG-1622, Last part of FCI AMBUD-2 from
“pRADO" in ‘letter dated 7 September, "PRADO" is a member
of RESCATE in Cuba,

ENTRIES OCLOw MECO NOT Of FILLED IN UF DUPLICATED Iw ACCOMPANYING REPORT
DISTRIBUTION

OPTIONAL:

‘Tatea- acency

TATRA AGENCY

4 ~ Headquarters
1 - 00/¢
1 - Files

Wa, oF enctosuaes

Toeaeer werewinces

$-E-C-R-E-T
CONTROLLED _DISSEM

amatay &

roy

Bote A967 Sievoee


FIELD INFORMATION REPORT

De Not vavelly valuable, Es Not sebabtes
ony cannot be jwaiyed (Aprtied te umiested

meultetenty tested #

2: -Probobty wee. ty true, br Dowbitut,

APPRAISAL OF COMTENT: I Confirmed by other independent ond relies
31 Probably Falen, 61 Cennat be rwdged.

S-E-C-R-E-T
CONTROLLED DISSEM

COUNTRY Cuba REPORT NO. UFG-1636
‘SUBJECT Activities by Foreign DATE OF REPORT 4 October 1962

Personnel in the Sagua la

Grande Area NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

DATE OF :
INFO. 17 August to 3 September 1962
PLACE & United States .
DATE ACQ. . 2

Taig is UNEVALUATED ir Onuation, SOURCE GRAGINOS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE: Loading official (C) in an anti-Castro group in exile,
from a member. of an anti-Castro group in exile from a

friend in Cuba. Appraisal of Content: 3

1. Cuban nationals ave not permitted entry to a camp of about
1,000 Soviets at Ranchoria (N 22-52, W 80-08, grid reference
899/294 ANS Series E723, sheet 41841) about four kilometers
from Sagua la Grande (N 22-48, W 80-05, grid reference 950/220
AMS Series E723, sheet aie4its on the road from Sagua la
Grande to Isabela de Sagua. (N 22-56, W 79-40, grid reference
015/370 AMS Serics E723, sheet 41841), Cuban nationals are
algo- not permitted access to an encampment of about 800
Soviets .in the Rodrigo area (N 22-41, W 80-11, ‘grid reference
NR-830/085 AMS Series E723, shect 418411) between Quemado
de Guines (N 22-47, W 80-15, grid reference NR-/70/200 re
AMS Series E723, sheet 418411) and Santo Domingo ‘(grid
reference NQ-780/975). There are an additional three
Soviet occupied camps at three locations along the road
from Santa Clara (N 22-24, W 79-58, AMS Series E723, sheet
42831Ei) te Caibarien (N 22-32, W 79-28, AMS Serios £723,
sheet 43831V); each of these camps has about 800. Soviets.

2, Cuban nationals are not permitted access to a camp of
about 500 Soviets about one half kilometer from the Rio
Sagua at the outskirts of the town of Sagua la Grande.
This last camp has a large quantity of heavy equipment,
which cannot be better described because of the fact that
the populace in the urea consist primarily of fisherman
and farmers. Some of the cargo was of such a bulky nature
that a special truck had to preceed the loaded trailer
trucks and cut the electrical wires to allow for the passage
of the loads, It was generally said in the area that this
cargo included "iG 15 and MiG 19 aircraft and a new type of
radar directed anti-aircraft artillery which would fjre
automatically once the radar locked onto the target.

S-E-C-R-E-T
CONTROLLED DISSEM

rw en

DISTRIBUTION

0


RNIB Mk: MATa! “NN se ncoesneca

S-E-C-R-E-T
CONTROLLED DISSEM

spiesy ae

3. This military matericl entered Cuba in five Soviet flag
vessels through Isabela de Sagua during the period 17
August to 3 September; two of these were the MISTURIN
and the SEBONEK,2 It is estimated that there was probably
about 60,000 tons of equipment which was unloaded from -
these ships,3 oad

Field Comment: :

1, Similar radar directed antiaircraft artillery has also
been installed at Morro Castlo as well as along the
coast from Habana to Matanzas, Another source, a
member of a counter-revolutionary organization in
Cuba has also reported that sew radar and associated

“artillery has been installed at Morro Castele.

2, The MNISTURIN is probably the MICHURIN, It was not
possible to provide a better name for the SEBONEK.

3, The original text of the information was not clear as
to whether or not "60 mil" tons were unloaded from the
two mentioned ships or from all five ships.

PRA a TEES tials gtr ee th ace pen aeett Me basaveae tines Amc

STAT HG

S-E-C-R-E-T
CONTROLLED DISSEM

