oo Bed 33/3 ofp,

ag A : :
. 7 GIASSIFICATION : ~_ PROCESSING ACTION
j DISPATCH : L SECRET | ane MARKED FOR INDEXING
10 - : :
i Chief, DO Division XX [no woexinc reauieeo
“Tinto. JONLY QUALIFIED DESK
a CAN JUDGE INDEXING
FROM eee
: Chief o MICROFIUM
SUBJECT ISOLOG, E
© transmittal 6f [WUSLAB JContact Report February - April 1970
‘ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES. TS
ACTION REQUIRED: FYI
REFERENCE : None.
i.

1. Attached are /WUSLAB/1/contact reports for the /
period 22 February~22"= April 1970. Contacts with (WUSLAB/1
for this entire period have been affected by a deterioration
of an eye condition which required an operation with a longer
recuperation period. On 20 April he began to return to work,
but is still operating in a somewhat limited fashion.

2. After further discussion with staB/1 we plan
to forward ideas on the utilization of SUAB/Y for the
remaining period of his Washington assignment.” Hegnow
expects to remain in Washington for the rest of (1 70/with
a possible transfer pier ied

: tite 0 Molle b a,
FLOYD B. MCCULLY
Ez Attachments: USC
C/R's for periods ~ 24 Feb.;
10, 19,27 March; 10,17 & 22 April
a
is Distribution: A
Orig & 1 - C/DO (w/atts. ,USC)
v/C ATT'D BY RI/AW CS
DATED_F0 Ape. 76 7 y's =
” [ROSS REFERENCE TO DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER DATE
| ae - &8 APR 1970
(owcae 5697 28 April 1970
CLASSIFICATION HOS FILE NUMABER
SECRET S 209-3233 {3
ts RETURNTO ClA

Background Use Only
Do Not Hepreduce



ee ee WPstZ Ty, Cor

11 March 1970

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
7
SUBJECT: Meeting with firusias/¥/ on 24 February 1970

1. fiuslas/i phoned on 21 February and told me of his

medical plans. “He had been examined by the doctors at
Ani] who confirmed the verdictgthat he had small and large

tears in his two retina. The NIH/specialists had photo-

graphed his retinas and on the basis of their examination

they think he should have an operation, on the largest tear

in the left retina and use friosur ery on some of the other

holes. They haye arranged to have w/e amined at, a retina

clinic at [Johns® Hopkin Hospital in, Baitinorel (w/a

go there on 27 February. He will also go baék to/NIH/on

25 February where they will check the hematology of- his

blood. The blood vessels in the eye and even the lids

are enlarged, so they will check-nis blood out.

7
2. I went to ft/a'g home_as arranged by the phone call
on 24 February at 1100. WT) was alone in the downstairs
part of the house. He was wearing dark glasses and the
light was muted. He has been confined to his house pretty
much, but asked for a ride downtown as he had to sign

checks in his office. He is not reading anything and cannot
look at television.

3. pu I)recently received a call tro in the (O81
in New YorE stating that both the head an e@ deputy of
the UN office in Mexico City were resigning at the end of
this year. This,gis not only an OPI office, but also UNDP,
etc. /W/1 showed 4ome interest in} the position in Mexico.
Vladimiré Pavlechenko, phoned and wished him well on his
eyesight problem. Pavle€henko] made a joke about political
vision.

1

4. In commenting on health/W/1/ said that he had seen
Ralph Bunche in New York on one of“his recent trips. Bunche
did not recognize him at. once. Bunche then said that he
expected to be blind by the end of 1970. The Soviets had
arranged for him to be examined at a famous eye clinic in
Odessa. They had told him that there was nothing they
could do, or could’be done to save his sight. Bunche's
eyes suffer from a deterioration of the blood vessels in
the eye. POUCH



5. Jose Rolz-Bennett has aged rapidly in recent years.
He has lost a great deal of weight. He suffers from a cleres-
tral condition. eholesterat

i ;
6. [W/l's wife 6k 26 February/is having a tea to which
Mrs. Sanjines is invite / LIZ Jexpects that Sanjines may
himself agear. [He phoned W/l]recently, but said that there
was nothing new. The Bolivian Finance Minister Losada is.,
in Washington at the moment having arrived over the weekend.

FLOYD B. MCCULLY

_[wasea Ors

j
J

2OO-6-337/3
