# 104-10120-10028

## Page 1

2104-10120-10028*

7*44.

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

PERSONNEL SECURITY PLEDGE AND

NAME CHECK INFORMATION RELEASE

429x

NAME OF SUBJECT (Last. First. Middle)

Serald

DATE OF BIRTH

foLACt of BIRTH

REQUESTING AGENCY

IR

DATE

16 ma 7s

DATE OF REQUEST

RETURND CIA

In

lusi

on the Subject

with

the following results:

19,60, National Agency Name Cosigsawread Aleted

Do Not Fieprottua

FBI

ONI

ACSI

STATE

PASSPORT

CSC HCUA

OSI

051/4

I&N

AGO

DODC!

N/

N

N

P - POSITIVE

N - NEGATIVE

REMARKS:

IP (Rundo) refer to 718=

As a duly accredited representative of the Requesting Agency named above, I

understand that all personnel security information released to me concerning the

Subject by review of his file, by nemoranda, by copies of reports, or by any other

means is furnished in strict confidence in connection with my official duties.

Accordingly, I hereby pledge the following:

1. The information is for official United States Government use only and

will be handled in accordance with its classification.

2. The information, the source thereof, the identity of informants, and

the collection methods will not be divulged nor disseminated to anyone,

except officials of the Requesting Agency named above on a strict need-

to-know basis.

3.

The information will not be divulged in any bearing or board action

without the prior written consent of the Releasing Agency.

to hi.

Kule

5/16/90

DATE

(8-12-43)

FORM

10-69

2689

USE

PREYIOUS

EDITION

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

---

