# 104-10218-10044

## Page 1

104-10218-10044

MATEREAL PERRIED AT CO: MLADQUAPTERS BY

HOUSE SELECT COITTLE DE ASSASSINATIONS STAFF M0210DES

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUE::

KDACETUNE (LIHUFE) (i Vol)

Develipment and Plans

50-124-28/1

INCLUSIVE

DATES: - 10 DeC 1965 - 28 OCt 1971

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION: CI/EXO

ROON: 2.D1

DELETIONS, IF AVY:-

Ere Document

TATE

RECEIVED RETUR A:DI

REVIENED BY

(PRINT KNIE)

STONATURE OF

REVIERIG CEFICIAL

NOT REVIEWED EXHOCA

This is in response to a request by the HSCA staff members to

review LICHANT-I's production. According to.our records, LICHANT-1

was included under the KDACETONE (formerly LIHUFF) project; and, as

in the case of LICOOkY-1, no separate production folder exists.

Attached is the LiHufF project.

UFF

and

a 50 121-28/

clans

---

## Page 2

4S1S Mexico City

Message No to

10 December 1962

"CONFIDENTIAL"

SuBT: Actiuties of Student Affairs

Officer; Activities of Various

student groups

---

## Page 3

SECRET

WHEN PILLED IN

FROM: (Headquarters compor...)

WH/1 Mexico

10 :

SUBJECT AND PROJECT FILE REQUEST

AND FIELD NOTIFICATION OF ACTION

IP/AN

TO

: (Station/Base)

FROM: (Division)

Chief of Station, Mexico City

Chief, Western Hemisphere Division

INFORMATION FOR REQUESTERS

COMPLETE ITEMS I THROUGH 12

ITEM IO-ENTER OLD TITLE WHES AMENDING A TITLE. CITE

ANY FILES.

SUCH AS 201 OR PROJECT FILES THAT ARE RE-

ITEM D-ALL FILE

TITLES MUST SE STERILE SINCE THEY WILL

LATED TO THE FILE COVERED ET THIS REQUEST ITEM 1O MAY

APPEAR ON THE FIELD COPIES AND ON MACHINE LISTS

ALSO BE USED TO GIVE REASO-S FOR THE ACTION BEING RE.

ITEM B - ALL REMARKS MUST BE STERILE

QUESTED, TO IDENTIFY THE TYPE CE MATERLAL TO DE FLACED

IN A FILE OR TO MAKE OTHER EXPLASATORY REMARKS.

ITEM Y AND 8-USE FIRST THREE LETTERS OF DESPATCH SYM.

FIELD STATIONS

AND LIST HEADQUARTERS ELE-

MENTS ACCORDING TO ESTABLISHED NUMERIC CODES

'EM IY - A RECORDS OFFICER MUST SIGN ALL FILE ACTION RE

VESTS CONSULT YOUR RMO OT ANY FROGLEMS THAT ARIS

INFORMATION CONCERNING FILE

TYPE OF FILE

2.

CODE (FILEI NUMEER

SUBJECT

PROJECT

COUNTRY NUMBER

€50

"CATEGORY NUMBLE

124

TSPECIFIC SUBJEGT NUMBER

28/1

3 FILE TITLE SPECIFIC SUBJECTI (FROJECTS LIMITED TO 15 SPACEST

KDACE TONE

OPEN FILE

AMEND FILE TITLE

5 REMARKS (FOR FIELD DISTRIBUTIONI

ANALYSIS ACTION

IX CLOSE FILE INSICALS OPOSITIONI

REOPEN

ACTION REQUIRED

RETAIN

DISPOSIIEN

DESTRUCTICY RECONECHDED

THRU "DATE:

7 INTERESTEO STATIONS PROJECTS ONLYI

& INTERESTED HEADQUARTERS DESA : LIST ACTION DESK FIRSTT

HMM

50

9.

FILES ACTION

HOLD IN

CS FILES

RESTRICTED

UNRESTRICTED

1Ó. COMMENTS INCLUDE SPECIAL HEADOUARTERS ROUTING INSTRUCTIONSI

SEED RE REQUESANE

MARGE PERMANENTLY T

'OFFICER & DESK

ENDORSEMENT

COORDINATION

CODE

25 och

7/

FORM

OBSOLETE PREVIOUS

82-63

812

EDITIONS

WFG. ₴-B8

50

SECRET

124

38 |

28/1

1-65 60PT

---

## Page 4

_S-E-C-R-E-T...

DATE OF

CHYPTONYA CHANGE 20704171

KDACETONE

FORMER CRYPTONY - LIHUFF

CRYPTONTH CHANGE AUTHORIZED BY -

PRO OR RID SECTION CHILES

COMPONENT - RID/AN

_CABLE OR DOCUMENT REFERENCE (FROM ITEM 10. UF FORM 812) -HMMS -71.30

1-0-9-1-C-1

THIS IS AN RIO NOTICE OF A CHANGE IN FILE

TITLE

CRYPTUNYM CAUSED.BY

_COMPROMISE•_ IT.

•TO BE PLACED IN THE FILE iNDICATED AND

TO REMAIN THEREIN AS A PERMANENT OFFICIAL

_C.S. RECORD.

'S-I-C-R-E-T

FILE IN =

050-124-028101

---

## Page 5

DISPATCH

Chief of Station, Mexico City

DEO.

roChief, Western Headsphere Division

"Termination of LIHUFP Project

ACTION REQUIRED - REFIREMCES

CLASSIFIAIION

SECRET

xx

FROCESSINE ACTION

BARKED FOR ROEXEC

NO MOUTING RIOURLO

ONLY QUALITIED DESA

AM SULGE INDEXINGE

MICROF AM

Project LIEUT was terminated effective 30 June 1970.

Norris F. DALICONE

--.

Distribution:

Orlg &

COS, Mexico City

CROSS REFERENCE 10

63 GOTY

DISPATCH SYMBOL ANGED AGULABER

HAMF-18041

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

OFFICE

WH/1/FI/CI

OFFICE SYMBOL

DATE

HUFF

DATE

28 AUG 1970

25 August 1970

MOS FILE NUMBER

50-6-28/1

ORIGINATING

TOOCUTRATTNO

4167

OFFICER I RAME

} = irono

LDE3 372

OFFICE SYMBOL

N CNH/1

DATE

126 Aug

1401

FORM

53 USEPREVIOUS EDITION

RELEASING

and ate M. Dauad

John C.

DISPATCH

- assis it bettinian in adieus

---

## Page 6

14-00000

SECRET

com

PROJECT APPROVAL NOTIFICATION

DE ENCI

UH/I

PROJECT EXHORT

ACTION

NEW PROJECT

AMENDMENT

RENENAL

TERMINATION

EXTENSION

LOTHER

APPROVINE AUTHORITY

PERIOD OF APPROVAL

FROM

CONDITIONS OF AFPROVAL

_PROPRIETARY

[sussior

DIRECT

AREA

Chdof, Wi Dirieden

DIVISION

1.89 2056979

DESK

CASE OFFICER

AUTHORIZATION

TOTAL AMOUNT APPROVED

INANCIA

IMBO

EXTENSION

4267

FY

196

196

013504452

AMOUNT

Funjest torninated el festive 30 Juno 1970.

creer

SIGNATURE

NPS/B6

'INANCI

1715109

$ OR#

8-86

'849

ESE PEYOUS

(SIEned

DATE

19 AUG 1970

DISTRIBUTION

SECRET

OFfiCER

GROUP 1

NPS/ 86

658

---

## Page 7

14-00000

ORGANIZATIONAL

ELEMENT

AC/WH/1

C/WH/B&F

C/WH/SS

C/WH/FI

C/WH/Plans

SECRET

(Ther Felles I0)

PROJECT ACTION

LIHUFF

TYPE OF ACTION

BEI PROJECT

APPROVAL

LAMENDMENT

GENEWAL

FI/C

RUIDISION

FIELD STATION

Mexico City

BRANCH

One

CAsE OrEILER

CA

Western Hemisphere Diusion

-DESK

EXTENSION

TERMINATION

ROOM AO.

BUILDING

3E05

Hqs.

CONCURRENCES OF DIVISIONS

TEL

'EXT.

RE -

1973

DATE

4 Aug 70

LAC

416

DATES

OUT

62uy! 6 Dug

1/k

8-8-78

11 AUO SIR 8/1!

+1 $

*0

CONCURRENCES OF OTHER COMPONENTS

when corcurrenc

Below

"dorained by oriennatine Element.)

CATES

ME NO

OUT

....

APPROVAL

AMT THIS ACTION

PER 100

19

AUTHORIYY

TORM 848 151.

5•89

TOTAL FUNDS AUTHORIZATIO

i g

DATE

12 AUG 1970

43)

---

## Page 8

14-00000

SECRET

.:'.

6 August 1970

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Western Hemisphere Division

SUBJECT

: Termination of Project LIHUFF

It is requested that the LIHUFF Project be

terminated, effective 30 June 1970.

Project LIHUFF covered funds for one agent,

LIHUFF-1, a U.S. businessman resident

in Mexico City

served in World War II with U.s, military

intelligence (MIS/X). LIHUFF-1 provided the Mexico

City Station with access into the right-wing political

groups and the American Chamber of Commerce in Mexico.

He also obtained Dunn and Bradstreet reports for the

Station and performed other tasks from time to time.

3.

LIHUFF-I was actually terminated effective

28 February 1970.

No funds were expended for the

cermination,

as he was not given a termination payment.

He was paid his salary of $300 per month, plus social

up until the time he was

terminated.

security contributions 1970 $2,528.41 of LIHUFF Project

During FY

funds were expended.

There were no known problems or security

in connection with the termination.

not obtained.

LIHUFF-1 was advised concerning his

social security benefits derived from his CIA employ

ment and told to contact the Station should he have

further questions.

Acting Chief, WH/1 -

SECRET

Excate, 1:3 =9ari

N06^997 136

• 193

---

## Page 9

DISPATCH

Chief of Station, Mexico City

CUSSENCATION

BECRET

PROCESSING ACTION

MARKED FOR EDITS

NO IDENTIC MOUND

ONLY QUALIFIED DESI

CAN JUDGE INDEXING

DFO.

FROM

Chief, MI Division

SUBEAT

© LIHUTT

AL NON REQUIRID - REFERENNCES

Hurt has been approved for the period 1 July 1969

through 30 June 1970 in the anount of $4,000, $400 of which

1o available for disbursement in the field. (93,600 1s

payrolled at Headquarters.)

Anthony B. WELDRAKE

OSS REFERENCE TO

Distribution:

Orig & 1 - 008, Mexico City

GROUP 1

Ereinted fun, zufamalie

44 4404 9" 214

CS COPL

RI

Chrono?

PiO

CS COPY

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND MUMBER

HXXH-17355

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

OFFICE

WH/1/J.

OFFAJ SYMBOL

DATE

сми/Bex 7/34/69

DATE = 9 JUL 1963

24 July 1969

HOS FILE NUMBER

50-124-28/2/

LExT.

6954

MERITO'S MANNE

WH/I

OFFICE SYMBOL

AC/WH:/1

DATE

or

madar narate nessied not an

---

## Page 10

SECRET

PROJECT APPRUVAL NOTIFICATION

PROJECT LITT

ACTION

NEW PROJECT

AMENOMENT

RENEWAL

TEAMNATION

EXTENSION

OTHER

LU PROPRIETARY

[DIRECT

AREA

DIVISION

BRANCH

DESK

CASE OfFICER

Maxico

EXTENSION

685

APPROVING AUTHORITY

PERIOD OF APPROVAL

FROM I 2Dy 9010

CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL

Chis, Val Diviate

- т0-20-53-4770

AUTHORIZATION

TOTAL AMOUNT APPROVED

582, 000

CODANCIAL

SYMBOL

FY

17O

195

0135252

AHOUNT

804, 000

SIGNATURE

MPS/BC

laces a to brend

DATE: .... SOS

DISTrIBUTION

DIVANGE

•OBA 849 USE BONES

PREVIOUS

OFFICER

_MPS/B6

SECRET

---

## Page 11

. 1=

SECRET

(when Filled In)

PROUCET ACTION

TYPE OF ACTION

PROJECT

APPROVAL

AMENOMENT

NO.

RENEWAL

or 198 70

EXTENSION

TERMIMATION

FA/CI

CA

Western Hemisphere Division

FIELD STATION

BRANC+

Mexico City

DECR

One

CASE OFFACER

ROOM DO.

BUILDING

3Е04

Hqs.

CONCURRENCES OF DIVISIONS

It:

LI HUFF

OTHER

ORGANIZATIONAL

ELEMENT

AC/WH/1

C/WH/B&F

C/WH/SS

AC/WH/FI

WH/EXO

DATE

8 July 1969

RED

9041 6954

DATES

IN

5/7/69

04

OUT

8/1/69

1/1

184162

14 те'

1 4 JUL 1959 18 JUL 1989

MEMIT

ATTACHER

YES

CONCURRENCES OF OTHER COMPORENTS

DATES

IN

OUT

MERC

ATTASMEO

VES

Nio

APPROYAL

AMT THIS ACTION

APROVING AUTH 1 JUlY 1969/ 30 June 1970'$ 4,000.00

C/WHD

#ORk

12-66 848 00191679

SECRET

Fy

TATAL AHOUNT

196

3

19x 7$

4,000.00

DATE

18 JUL 1969

---

## Page 12

14-00000

omar

S52TET

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Western Hemisphere Division

SUBJECT

Renewal of Project LIHUFF

Renewal of Project LIHUFF in the amount of

$4,000 is requested for the period 1 July 1969

through

30 June 1970.

The Project was budgeted for $4,000 for

FY 1970 and funds are available within WH Division.

LIHUFF represents Mexico City Station's access

into right wing political elements and organizations in

and provides contact with the large and influ

American business community there.

In addition,

his access to Dun and Bradstreet reports has also been

useful in carrying out checks on WOLADY citizens of

operational intcrest to the Station. During the project

year three field information reports were credited to

the Project, one of which was disseminated by Head-

quarters,

and some thirty-five background investigations

were conducted by the agent.

In paragraph D "Effectiveness" of the attached:

renewal request it was noted,

"He (LIHUFF-]) also organ-

ized at the request of COS (who, in turn,

had been

requested by Headquarters) a public demonstration in

front of the Soviet Embassy in protest against the in

vasion of Czechoslovakia."

of the LITEMPO

Project reveals that LITEMPO 4 was paid $4,000.00 by the

Station to organize and rally as many students as possible

in addition to the MURO planned demonstration in front of

the Soviet Embassy, and to Headquarter's knowledge LIHUFF-]

lid not organize the student demonstration on behalt of the

4. The Desk feels that this Project should be reviewed

during the upcoming project year to determine whether it

should be continued.

Acting Chiêt, wHI

SEG.21

• after

just sags

---

## Page 13

4-00000

SEGRET

11 July 1969

MEMORANDUM FOR: DC/WH

SUBJECT

: Renewal of Project LIHUFF

1. Project LIHUFE covers a singleton agent (a U.s.

citizen) who has been managed directly by the COS, Mexico

City, and who has worked for WHD for nore than twenty years,

beginning in Panana and continuing in Mexico. LIHUFF-I pro

vides the Station access to right-wing political elements and

contact with the American business community in Mexico City

(he is executive director of the American businessnan's

association).

2. The project provided three disseminations in Fiscal

Year 1969, and it is deened unlikely that it will over be a

source of effective and meaningful intelligence.

3. VH/FI suggests that LIHUFF-1 be considered for one or

several specific support tasks, which represent a continuing

burden for Station Mexico City, and that he no longer be con-

sidered as a source of intelligence.

no

4. If It is ascertained that he can perform/support

task(s), we advise that the project be terainated. In the

meantine, we recommend approval in the amount of $4,000 for

Fiscal Year 1970.

I note: "I believe that

we should take a hard leok, at this

cc:

WE/1

FEARET

AC/WH/FI

!

17497479974

---

## Page 14

DISPATCH

Chief, WH Division

CLASSIFICaTION

SECRET

PEOCESSING ACTION

MARKED FOR INDEXING

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

OLY QUALIFIED DESE

¡CAN SUDGE INDEXING

BSICROFILA

SUBJECT

Chief of Station, Mexico City i

LIHUFF Project Renewal

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

Reference: HMMW-17191, 2 April 1969

Forwarded by split transmission is the LIHUFF Project

Renewal Request for the period 1 July 1969 through 30 June

1970 for a total of U.S.$4,000.00.

cén C. Túitio

for/Willard C. CURTIS

Attachments:

Project Renewal Request

- Left Side - Herewith

2. Project Renewal Request

- Right Side - Under Separate Cover

latt:

CROSS REFERENCE 70

ES COPY

DESPATCH SYMBOL AND WABER

HMMA -37098

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

DATE

8 May 1969

MOS FILL, WUDABER

11 50-124-2811

---

## Page 15

14-00000

GET

REQUEST FOR PROJECT RENEWAL

3+ -570

-00

PROJECT

LIHUFF

1.

STATION _ Mexico City

CHIEF OF STATION

Milandlunt

9, 3

FARMAFE MY COLE TREEZZUSSIDA

SO NALD NESELINATION

CS COPT

CS COPY

s/ adt: 1

50-124-25/1

Finch

4I:30

---

## Page 16

" REQUEST FOR RENEWAL

PROJECT LIHUFF

Ao

CURRENT OBJECTIVES

The objective of this project is to provide support for

a singleton contract agent, LIHUFF-], who is the Executive

Director of the most important organization of WOLADI

also continues to have access to

right-wing political elements and organizations in Mexico,

one

a rightwing student group (principally at

the

Universidad Nacional Autonoma de Mexico, UNAM).

B. CHANGES

1. Operational Mechanism

There have been no changes in this respect since the

previous project renewal was submitted.

Agents

The only agent to be supported by this project for the

coming year is LIHUFF-I.

C.

INTELLIGENCE PRODUCTION

Three disseminated reports were credited to this project

during FY 1969:

• HMM-11890 "University Rector"s Conviction that U. S.

Promoted Student Riots""

HMM-12003 "Views of Minister of Industry and Commerce

on Forthcoming Visit of Nelson Rockefeller."

HMM-12008 "Views of Minister of Industry and Commerce

on Government Control of Radio and Television."

H61254

SECRET

---

## Page 17

pon, ser .

= 2-

This agent is used as a source for background, opera-

tional and investigative data.

•For that reason

it does not

produce a sufficient amount of positive intelligence to justify

its existence for that purpose. Its real value is the

availability of this agent and

his contacts to the Chief of

Station, Mexico, for a

current reading

on right-wing political

activities and personalities.

He is also a primary investiga-

tive source for information on WOLADY citizens of operational

interest to the Station.

This agent has access to all reports

produced by Dunn & Bradstreet in Mexico and can have investiga-

tions conducted by them.

D. EFFECTIVENESS

During

with details on

1se pa proposed nethe derat providaw he scation

a proposed

subsequently passed) and an analysis on how this new law would

affect foreign investors or companies.

The agent also kept "the

Chief of Station, Mexico, advised of right-wing political

student agitation.

He also organized at the

request of Cos who

in turn, had been requested by Headquarters)

a public demonstration in front of the Soviet Embassy in protest

against the invasion of Czechoslovakia.

about thirty-five background investigations and file traces for

the Station.

E. PROBLEMS

security or cover.

This project has presented the Station with no problems of

F. LIAISON

This project involves no liaison relationship.

G. INTERAGENCY COORDINATION

This project involves no interagency coordination.

FORWAREE RY SPLIT TRONULISSION

H. PLANS

NO FRELS DESSESAASTIEN

Station Mexico

plans to continue to use LIHUFF-, as :

upport agent and informant on activities of right-win

---

## Page 18

S 20.71

-3-.

political minority groups and for investigative and background

intornation on persons of operational interest.

The Station

will also use LIHUFF-1, when so requested by Headquarters, to

organize public demonstrations

such as

the one mentioned in

paragraph

D above.

I. FUNDS

LIHUFF-1 Salary

FY 1969

$ 3,600

FY 1970

$ 3,600

Social Security Con-

tribution

$14.40/month

Operational Expenses

J. ANNEX

Total

175

225

$ 4,000

175

225

$ 4,000

None

к.

EMERGENCY CONDITIONS

There has been no change since the original emergency

meeting conditions were reported.

FY 1971

$ 3,600

175

225

$ 4,000

SECRET

.=..

.....

---

## Page 19

14-00000

10

hEO.

FROM

RANCH

DISPATCH

BECBET

Chiet of Station, Hextco City

Chief, Testern Hemlaphere Diviatos

PROCESSING ACTIO

BARKED FOR BOOKSE

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

DALY QUALTED DESE

CAR NUDGE MIDETING

MICROFILA

Reference: Book Dispatch 6769, 25 November 1968

This le a routine reminder that the LIBUFF Project

Renewal Request is due at Headquarters 12 June 1969:

Norris V.

DAMICONE

CROSS REFERENCE TO

Distribution:

Orig. & 1 - COS, Mexico City

CS COPY

DISPATCH SYREOL AND NUMBER

KHWW17191

QUASSIFICATION

SECLET

COPY

Distribution:

RI

- 1

CHRONO - 1

AY PW

13, X

P3

OFFICE

WH/1

OFFICE STANSOL

DATE

8 APR 1963

2 April 1969

HOS FILE MUMBER

V50-124-28/1

/ ORIGINATING

IST

KS

COORDINATING

DATE

DEFICER'S MAME

OFFICE SYMBOL

C/WH/1

DATE

4/3/69

140)

RELEASING

OFFICES SCRATURE

6954

tn*a

---

## Page 20

DISPATCH

Chlet of Station, Mexteo City

CLRSSAICAIEOSI

SECRET

PROCESSING ACTION

| MARKED FOR BOTEING

NO MOEXIS POURED

ONLY QUALFED DESK

I CAN JUDGE RIDEXING

1GQ.

FRON

SUBJECT

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

Chief, Westera Hemisphere DiviBIOR

LIHUrY has been approved for the period 1 July 1968

through 30 June 1969 in the amount of $4,000, $400 of which

1a available

for disbursenent in the field. ($3600 is payrolled

at Headquarters).

Diatribution:

Orig. & 1

- COS, Mexico City

CROSS REFERENCE TO

AN PW

AB X

RI

CHRONO

CS COPY

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

FNINF-16521

CLASSAFICATION

BECRET

OFFICE

WH/1

OFFIE SYMBO

DATE

WH/BIE:

VE FINED

gar sy

+ Or 6N.00

OFFICE SYMBOL

C/WH/1

DATE

-4601

DATE

50-124-28/1

I AUS i966

22 July 1968

HOS FLE NUMBER

50-124-28/1

ARIGINATING

EXT.

6954

COORDIRATING

RELEASING

OFFICERS SIGNATU

FORM 53 USEPREVIOUSEDITION.

NASDATCH

---

## Page 21

SECRET

PROJECT APPROVAL NOTIFICATION

Perci

ie, it/

L PROPRIETARY

AREA

DROJECT

10300

ACTION

NEW PROJECT

AMENDHEAT

RENEWAL

TERMINATION

EXTENSION

OTHER

APPROVING AUTHORITY

PERIOD OF APPROVAL

FROM

2 dely 1941

CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL

TO

50 dam 2940

DIVISION

BRANCH

DESK

CASE OFFICER

AUTHORIZATION

EXTENSION

TOTAL AMOUNT APPROVED

FY

1140000

• 1969

196

FINANCIAL

CODE

SYMBOL

92552459

AMOUNT

864.000

sIGNATUrE

MPS/BG

DATE

(Siened)

2 3 JUL 1968

BINANCE

FORM 849 HEEFORVIOUS

BUSEN

DISTRIBUTION

TO MEAN SONORT

SECRET

OFAGER

MPS/#G

(8)

sint

---

## Page 22

14-00000

SECRET

(When Filled In)

'ECT CRYPTONY

PROJECT ACT!ON

LI AUFF

TYPE CF ACTION

F1/C1

CA

OTHER

MEW ORDJECT

AFFROYAL

"'Western Hemisphere Division

AMENDMENT

FIELD STATIOR

но.

Mexico Cit

FY

196

9

RANCH

Dne

DESK

EXTENSION

TERMINATION

ROOM NO.

BUILDING

3E04

Hqs

CONCURRENCES OF DIVISIONS

TYPED NAME (ond signature)

TEL.

EXT.

DATE

1 July 68

RED

9041

BLACK

6954

DATES

IN

OUT

W. J. Kaufman

ORGANIZATIONAL

ELEMENT

C/WH/1

C/WH/BS:F

C/WH/SS

C/WH/FI

WH/EXO

MÉMO

ATTACHED

YES

NO

Thomas Polgar

en toger

7/3

15 JUL 19%

17 Pule.

CONCURRENCES OF OTHER COMPONENTS

DATES

IN

OUT

MERC

ATTACHEL

YES

NO

4 1 Jul 68

APPROVING AUTHORITY

C/WHD

FORM

18-68 848 10191878 PA6r800S

PERIOD

°30 June 69

APPROVAL

AMT THIS ACT10%

1$4,000

Broc

SECRET

FY

196

1969

TOTAL AMOUNT

$

$ 4,000

DATE

18/7/68

188

---

## Page 23

14-00000

SECRET

- .

9 July 1968

MEMORANDUM FOR:

SUBJECT

C/WHD

Project LIHUFF Renewal

1. This covers a singleton asset (LIHUFF-I) who is

managed by COS, Mexico Station, and who serves as a general

utility agent for the COs.

2. Reporting is deficient.

3. This appears to ke a bread and butter type project. -

It has been used successfully (e.g., during the YEVTUSHENKO

visit to Mexico), and TH/FI accedes to the recommendation to

renew.

..-.

...

.. ...

S. KC

Thomas Polgar

C/WH/FI

EJL

CC:

WB/1

SECRET

---

## Page 24

14-00000

:

SECRET

2 July 1968

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Western Hemisphere Division

SUBJECT:

Renewal of Project LIHUFF

1.

Renewal of Project LIHUFF in the amount of $4,000

is requested for the period l July 1968 through 30 June

The project was

budgeted for $4,200 for FY 1969 and

funds are available within WH Division.

2.

one progress report was

received,

in June 1968,

reported

in the attached rencwal

request.

Although the

Station has made use of LIHUFF's relations with the right

ring student organization, MURO,

in connection with

Evgeniy YEVTUSHENKO's visit to Mexico this spring, the

use of MURO is being de-emphasized.

The main value of

LIHUFF/1, a long

time collaborator previously serving in

Panama and beginning in OSS days, is his

availability to

service various requests which

the COS may make of him

and to provide insight into the activities of the extreme

right wing of Mexican politics.

His access to Dun and

Bradstreet reports has also been useful.

W. J. Kaufman

My haupwan

C/wH/1

119, T3"

side lies

GH0U 1

Eschen tren sais:

SECRET

---

## Page 25

DISPATCH

Chief, KH Division

CUSSFICATION

SECRET/KAPOK

PROCESSING ACTION

MARKED FOR INDEXING

XXX

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED DESK

CAN JUDGE INDEXING

INFO.

FRONG

Chief of Station, Mexico City

SUBJECT

LIHUFF Project Renewal

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

REFERENCE: HANA-32306, 20 June 1968

Attached is the LIHUFF Project Renewal submitted for the period

1 July 1968 through 30 June 1969 for a total of US $4,000.00 all

of which will be spent in Fiscal lear 1969.

Hillard Curtis

"Willard C. CURTIS

Attachment:

Project Renewal Request

Left-hand side h/w

Right-hand side u.s.c.

Distribution:

Orig &3) C/WHD w/att

B - U.S

=u.s.C.

SCATTD DI RO,SD

RATI

CROSS REFIRENO: TO

Cr.as:10aa

ES HOPY

DISPATON SYMBOL AND NUMBER

HANA -34773.

CASSIFIKATION

SECRET /KAPOK

DATE

50-124-28/1

29 May 1968

MOS FUE NUMBER

50-124/28

---

## Page 26

14-00000

mg.....

..

SECRET/KAPOK

REQUEST FOR PROJECT RENEWAL

PROJECT

LIHUFF

CASE OFFICER

Belgue listis

STATION Mexico City

FERWARBED ER SPLIT TRANCHISSION

NO FELD DES ZRUCTION

SECRET/ KAPOK

50-124-2311

---

## Page 27

1d-0d0d

stalinist

SECRET/KAPOK

REQUEST FOR RENEWAL

PROJECT LIHUFF

A.

CURRENT OBJECTIVES

The objective of this project is to provide support for a singleton

contract agent, LIHUFF-1, who is the Executive Director of the most:

important organization of WOLADY businessmen in Mexico. He also

continues to have access to right-wing political elements and

organizations in Mexico,

one of which is a right-wing student

ETOu) (principally at the Universidad Nacional Autonoma de lexico -

• B. CHANGES

1) Operational Mechanism

There have been no changes

in this respect since the previous

project renewal. was submitted.

2) Agents

The only agent to be supported by this project for the coming

year is LiHUFF-1.

C. INTELLIGENCE PRODUCTION

This agent is used as a source for background, operational and

Investigative data.

For that reason it does rot produce a suffi

cient amount of positive intelligence to justify its existence

for that purpose.

It's real value is the availability of this

agent and his contacts to the Chief of Station, Mexico, for a

current reading on rightwing political activities and

personalities.

He is also

a primary investigative source for information on WOLADY

citizens of operational interest to the Station.

This agent has

all reports produced by Dunn & Bradstreet in Mexico and

can have investigations conducted by them.

For example, some forty

Dunn & Bradstreet reports have been obtained (via LIHUFF/1) on

persons and/or organizations of interest.

D.

EFFECTIVENESS

During the project year, the agent provided the Station with

276 2411814

11474

SECRET /KAPOK

i.

•ві ач"Пужайн isin" toam

---

## Page 28

SECRET/KAPOK

one 2 m

details of Mexican Government plans to impose legislative

restrictions on foreign investments and Government advice to banks

to limit loans to companies with an appreciable amount of foreigr

This agent kept the Chief of Station, Mexico, advised of right-

ving political activities and student participation in anti-

LNHARP demonstrations which occurred at least once each month

during the past year.

LIHUFF-I conducted some twenty background investigations and file

traces for the Station, in addition to those cited in C above.

In March LINLUCK prevailed upon a Mexican book publisher to print

copies of the LINLUCK open letter to Yevtushenko as well as

the

text of the telegram by Soviet intellectuals to the Consultative

Conference of Communist Parties in Budapest asking for an end to

Soviet persecution of intellectuals.

The latter handbill was

illustrated with LINWUCK pen and ink drawings of Sinyavsky and

Daniel behind barbed wire.

At the same time the Station produced

several thousand cartoon and text handbills of a beatnik Yevtu

shenko dancing

into Mexico tossing flowers.

Turning a fold of the

handbill revealed a Russian officer striking off the nib of a

Soviet writer's pen with his sword.

In a wet run in January LITEAR

I directed four

snall boys in the distribution of the cartoon handy

bill in the artists' district of Mexico where Station monitors

watched students and artists read and pocket the cartoon handbill.'

The cartoon handbill was again distributed in the artists' district

on the day of Yevtushenko's arrival.

The following day,

when

Yevtushenko held his first recital at Mexico City's Chapultepec

Park, one of the handbills was distributed by LICOAX students,

while members of the "MURO" rightist student organization under

direction of LIHUFF quietly distributed the other two handbills.

Station officers verified that everyone in the audience held copies

E. PROBLEMS

This project has presented the Station with no problems of security

or cover

I. LIAISON

This project involves no liaison relationship.

...l

SECRET/KAPOK

---

## Page 29

14-00009

:

SECRET/KAPOK

-3-

224

Go

INTER-AGENCY COORDINATION

This project involves no inter agency coordination.

H.

PLANS

I.

FUNDS

include the agent's salary of US $3,300 ($300 per month) -

advanced locally and T/Aed to Headquarters.

LIHUFF-1 salary

Operational Expenses

3,600

400

Total

4,000

The above represents what the Chief of Station, Mexico City

believes is

the minimum that will be required to keep a

working-level relationship with this agent and his organi-

zation.

J. ANNEX

None.

K. EMERGENCY CONDITIONS

There has been no change since the original emergency meeting

conditions were reported.

SECRET/KAPOK

-?..

. •

---

## Page 30

14-00000

WISPATCH

CLASSIFICATiN

SECRET

10

Chief of Station, Mexico CIty

MF0.

HOW!

Chief, Vestern Benlaphere Division

SUB AECT

O Renewal of LI HUrT

ACTIOS REQUIRED • REFERENCES

PROCESSING ACTION

MARKED FOR BOLING

I NO MOANE ECORED

ONLY QUALITED DISA

CAN JUDGE MOCKING

AUCROFIL

We remind you that we would appreciate receiving the

LIHUFF renewal a month before the project termination date,

which is 30 June 1968.

1. 11.6

Theresa H. BACHARDY

a mini

Distribution:

Orig. & 1 - COS, Mexico City

CROSS REFERENCE TO

DISPATCH SYMSOL AND NUMBER

FD0/W-16279

CLASSIFICATION

BECRET

OFFICE

J.WH/1

OfFICE SYMBOL

DATE

1. APP 1960 50-124-23/1

1

April

HOS FILE NUMBER

1968

50-124-28/1

ORIGINATNG

EXT.

6954

TOUKDTNATING

RI

CHRONO

ABSTRACT X

-OFFICER'S MAME

шн/I

ester

RELEASING

C/WH/1

DATE

1 Apr 68

1401

FORM 53 USE PREVIOUS EDITION.

MIDATEH

---

## Page 31

14-00000

MEMORANDUM FOR: MPS/BG/FI

SUBJECT:

CA ApoCIa; PIOjOCE IIHUFS (F1)

Wa nole thal, desulio sho cut-asi (as I'nacquartare Insiesanco)

Ol CLA funde to LaHUTE antles groupe lo 1965, abe aithaugà litele rootay

sa curtondy saddad so LNIUFF-l for opa and euppori purpaese 1$: 20 1

FY 196?, $600 projoctsd 1or FY 1968), tho Station le concaurg lo 19a

LIHUFF-A dor Ed boc polllice sedor.

Ibio tarolune malaty statica ee..

queete ano cuídanca lor epeculie operation, orlacipally carseeront 455

1:0ne conGuciad Ey MURO, the rilitant arch-r'ga8sas 3901 Loraunie!

¡tudest group al lbe Univarida vacional Autonama de Masico (UNAli.

2 CA/PEO queallone uhrther the use and ancouragement al MURO

lo! Chede Quapodad 1a condioten: with OD osiactives or 150 Intescata La

Manico, aren tough noat of the MURO sedione dupparei by ao age diras-

1SÓ aI DOR-UNAM LArge:

Ay encouragement oF SuppOrE la MURO, ior

maraver reasone, will heve cho inevitabie hy-produca ot recintaining asd

sulling up che prontige ana induonce ni MuRo ca the UNaM rampues

reasie antitatical to 1no objectives ol other stalias sad Ensbaser afforta

is ata ciadour dield in ilosico la.f: Prolc LICOAdi.

His apprariato the nead los & Station muliact action toam 1o7

spacilla barzeemoot purucudo da the neco acinet,

We04118786 30594886

chat the done-rouge negativo allece ui perpetuating MURO curuslabe che

serticai onori-ranzo penelite lo bo derivod trom MitRO harisement ace

tiona si ous 1:.at1Rat10n,

We cannot thorefos4 endorde thia CA dapect ot

KENNETH Y, MALELAN

C/CA/PEC

lever sow This 128 cer deng LILIs/X DIRESRET

Ao prepise tenewce.

NA. 10 JUN69

Misa tantistin la-

---

## Page 32

DISPATCH

CLASSUFIEATIS

SECRET

Chief of Station, Mexico City

TO

FROM

SUBJECT

Chief, WH Uivision_

• ReDeval of LIHUrT

ACTION REQUIRED , REFERZNCES

PROCESSINGACHION

MARKED FOR RIDEX ING

ED NOT RIES BEQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED DESH

CAN JUDGE INDE ASE

BRICHOF BLAS

Project LIlUFF has been approved in the amount of

$4,200 for the perlod 1 July 1967 through 30 June 1988.

T. 13.

Theresa Il. BACHARDY

Distribution:

2 - COS, Mexico City

CROSS REFERENCE TO

RI

Chrono

2.1 JUL 1907

50 - 124-20/1

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

HHMT -15646

CLASSIFICATINA

CROUP 1

Ercheded fram ayaalic

SECRE

407773995 898

DATE

21 July 1967

HOS FILE RUMBER

50-124-28/1

ORIGINATING

OFFICE

WH /1

EXT

6954

COORDINATING

DATE

OFfICERS NAME

wit I

32-06

ABSTRACT X

r.A9781

ans: 11357

DATE

---

## Page 33

14-00000

SECRET

PROJECT APPROVAL NOTIFICATION

PROJECT

WHOFF

ACTION

NEW PROJECT

AMEMDMENT

RENEWAL

TERMINATION

EXTENSION

OTHER

PROPRIETARY

I SUBSIDY

AREA

DIVISION

WH

BRANCH

WH/1

84816

CASE OFfICER

APPROVING AUTHORITY

Chief, WH

PERIOD OF APPROVAL

FROM _1 Jal 67

CONDITIONE OF APPROVAL

To _ 30 Jua 68

AUTHORIZATION

TOTAL AMOUNT APPROVED

$

4, 200

COLANCIAL

SYMBOL

EXTENSION

6954

FY

196 8

196

8235-2152

AMOUNT

$4. 200

24 JUL 1957

SIGNATURE

MPS/BE

DATE

FINANCE

FORM 849 NOT TONYLOUS

DISTRIBUTION

UDGI

VIBIC

OPERATOR SUPREET

SECRET

OFFiCER

drivinis Mean

---

## Page 34

SECRET

(tron filled in,

PROucCT ACTION

TYPE OF ACTION

PROJECT

AMENGMENT

40.

BENEWAL

or 196 g

EXTENSION

XI

oystera leiispiere Division

FIELD STATION

Mexico City

BRANCH

DESK

One

TERMINATION

ROOM NO.

BUILDING

3B4403

Hqs

CONCURRENCES OF DIVISIONS

TYPED NAME (and o

W. J. Kaufman Wylefman

. ICT CRYPTORYA

LIHUFE

ORGANIZATIONAL

ELEVENT

C/WH/1

C/WH/B&F

C/WH/SS

C/WH/FI

WH/EXO

Thomas Polgar Phoner olfen

DATE

29 Jun 67

PEO

BLACK

9041

6954

DATES

IN

OUT

le/a9

4/3r.

н41 62

12 JULIEST IEST:7/7

ATTACHED

YES

NO

APPROVAL

PERIOD

AMT THIS ACTION

1 July 1964 "30 June 1968 34 200.00

APPROVING ALTHORITY

SIGNETI

C/WHD

William

V. Broe

B8-68 848 1:181009

SECRET

FY

1968

790

TOTAL

ANOUNT

$ 4,200.00

DATE

17 jul67

• initiation statesa

CONCURRENCES OF OTHER COMPONENTS

DATES

IN

OUT

MEYO

ATTACHEL

---

## Page 35

74-00000

SECRET

MEMORANDUM TO: Chief, Western Hemisphere Division

SUBJECT

: Request for Renewal of Project LIHUFF

It is requested that Project LIHUFF be renewed

in the amount of $4,200.Ou for the period 1 July 1967

through 30 June 1968.

Funds are available in WH Division.

Project costs are estimated to be the same as last year.

2.

LIHUFF represents Mexico City Station's access

into right wing circles, and also provides contact and

community there.

renewal request

that a considerable portion of the

project's accomplishment was along political action

Lines,

but it has nevertheless been decided to maintain

LT HIST

as an FI activity, since the addition of the

investigative function to LIHUFF-l's mission balances

the project more heavily on the FI side.

There has been

no progress reporting since 16 November 1966, at which

time the station recounted the harrassing of

a Czech

official, the soviet Embassy and the Chinese art exhibit.

1 Sa

J. Kaufman

Chief, WH/1

SECRET

CR031

Excluisd tras elseati:

teclass!fisa"sa

lind thei

---

## Page 36

dISPATCH

Chief/N#D

CLESIFICATION

SECRET

PROCESSINGACTION

MARKED FOR MDEXINO

NO MODURE REQUIRED

ORLY QUALIFIED DESK

CAN JUDGE NDEX M3

MICROFILM

ISFA.

FROM

Chict of Station, Kerico Clty

SUBJECT

Project LUFF Request for Reneka

ACTION MENUITEX - REFERENCES

Reference: iMMA-28237, dated 13 lay 1966

Attached is the LIHUFF Project Renewnl submitted for the

perlod 1 July 1957 through 30 June 1962 for a total of

US 17, 200.00 all oi which will be spent in Fiscal Yoer 1955.

liare enti

Attachaent:

Lft-hand side n/v

Ret-hand side u.S.C.

Districution:

© - Chief/wID h/w & u.s.c.

NO FIELD DISSERINATION

CROSS REFERENCE 10

CS COPY

DISSATCH SYMBOL ARD FUNDER

HM41-32306"1

CUSSIFICATIOA

SECBEE

50-124-2811

DATE

20 June 1967

NOS FILE NUMBER

50-124-23

---

## Page 37

14-00000

→..'.

...

.."

- -

RENEST FOR PROJECT RETSINL

PROJECI

ITHUFP

CAES OPPiC: Miecard (Custis

Millard C. CURTIS

STATIONL

Mexico City

ontsr of sunc kielaret(-(uit,

willard C. CurtIs

simess

FORWARDED BY SPLIT TRANSMISSION

NO FIELD DISSERSINATICN

.:. ts.

OS CUPY

.

50-124-2510

Ttlw No: +14 41900-32306

.S/eRTT.R 2E HIMMA -32306

-aele. .

-,supiiaii isiciavidirai

si, eoe

---

## Page 38

14-00009

REUEST FOR REMEAL

PROJECT LINUE?

CURRENT OBJECTIVES

• The oujective o. anis project is to provide sugbort for a sirgleton

contract agent, LInurf-1 who is the Executive Director of the most

Inportant organization of Perican businessmen in lexico. Fo rloo

contirues to have access to right-wing political elecents er: organi-

zations in Mexico: and through these contacts, has access to a right-

wing student prouz (principally at the Universidai liacional intonora

de Mexico - UNA) .

3. CHANG 35

1) Operational Wechanisa

The LInurr Project as epprosed 18 June 1966 for the period 1 July

1956 through 30 June 1967. Ll'UFP-1, the contract arent Involvel,

has been a contact of the Vexico Station since 1950.

sefore that tige

he vas a contract agent for station Pannme wer ne sas in busiress in

that arca.

In Foveaber 1902 tre relationshi, las fomalized into

contract status wit: LIlUrE-l acting as a funding channel to 27 anti-

Communist rescarch group and richtist student group Leaded by

LIHUFF-2, as well as handling LICHANT-1 and reporting on richt-ing

activities from other conservative ousiness sources. Suusidles to

action grouns were jiscontinued via LIhUFF-1 during 1965.

1966 LIHUFP-1 has been used as a support asset doing credit as other

type investigations with his overt position as cover.

Bradstreet Ilstines and Investigations are examples of the kind of

chects LInEr-l provides.

2) Agents

The only agent to be supported by this project for the coming jear is

LIHUFE-1.

C. INTELLIGEICE PRODUCEION

restigative data.

to justify this project on the basis of positive intelligence dis-

seminations or the maber of dispatches or cables produced by it.

LIHUFF-1 meets regularly with ard is handled directly by Willar

c. CURTIS, Chief of Station, Mexico. The agent is used to obtain

information on activities of right-wing political groups in lexico.

Much of this is merginal in comparison with activities of other

.. .-..

---

## Page 39

i

-2.

political groups, nevertheless, the Ambassador dedends upon Station

Mexico for iniornation on al political groups.

&IHUFF-1 Is the only

Station asset who circulates freely in these circles.

During the

past year, LIHUFF-l has conducted through his organization, investigations

and checks on firms and individuals connected with them. This type of

operational data is not availabie fron any other sources. LIHUFF-1 has

access to all reports produced by Durf & Bradstreet in Vexico; and can

have investigations initiated by then and others.

D. EFEPCTIVENESS

Sore examples of the effectiveness of this project are:

1) During the past year, LIHUFP-1 provided guidance to a right-wing

action group which launched a press attack against the Commercial

officer of the Czech Enbassy (Subject of 201-204656) which resulted

in his PCS transfer from Mexico.

2) In late Augus: 1966 LIIUFF-1 arranged for a right-wing action

group to conduct & harrassment of a Chinese Communist Art Exhibit at

the UNAM nich resulted in the closing of the exhibit.

This action

was taken as a result of a personal request of the Chief INPURE.

3) In October 1966 LIHUFF-1 arranged for a student action group to

conduct a denonstration in front of the Soviet babassy on the 10th

anniversary of the crushing of the Hungarian rebellion. This resulted

in considerable press comment against the Soviets with protographic

coverage of & casket and anti-Soviet tanners on the sidewalk in front

of the Soviet Embassy®

4) Some Investigations conducted by LIHUFP-1 through his firm were:

8) Electrosoldadura, S. A.

Lago Wenner 98, Mexico 17, D.F.

b)

GSP Ingenieros Asociados

anuel Maria Contreras 94-40

Mexico, D. F.

(of interest to the Soviet

Case Officer)

98

) Basculos Mantro, SeA

(icotencat] 1'

Santa Clara, Edo. de Mexico

Ing. Ralph WIEGANDI

Enrique OSORIO Robles

---

## Page 40

14-00000

- .

• -

1...

-Boa

E. PROBLEMS

There have been no significant security, cover or control problems

with LIHUFF-1 during the project year.

F. LIAISON

This project involves no liaison relationship.

G. INTER-AGENCY COURDINATION

This project involves no inter-agency coordination.

H. PLANS.

Station Mexico plans to continue to use LIHUFP-1 as a support agent

and informant on activities of right-ving political uinority groups.

I. FUNDS

1. For the Past Period.

advanced locally and I/led to Headquarters.

2. During the Next Project Year.

sting the ho say que the 30 be 1968 a the

following manner:

LIHUFP-1 Salary

Operational ixpenses

$3,600.00

600.00

Total

$, 200.00

The above represents what Chief of Station Mexico believes 1s

the minimun that will be required to keep a working-level

relationship with this agent and his orgenization.

--=

..

the at timete me all a

---

## Page 41

1d-0d0d

So ANNEX

None

• •

KO EMERGENCY CONDITIONS

There has been no change since the last project renewal.

---

## Page 42

14-00000

DISPATCH

Chief of Station, Mexico City

BASICARE

SECBET

PACCESSINGACION

HARRED FOR MODEME

DO ACEXINE PERUSED

HEY GUILTED DESI

CHE DOGE DOLING

SCROF RI

Chief, WH Division

WIC, Renewal of Project LIHUPP

ACTII REQUIRED - REFERENCES

LIHUFF expires on 30 June 1967.

We assume that you will want

to renew it, and ask that your renewal request reach

US y

According to our records there have been no reports

fron LIHUFT-1 since last May and Project activity has been

mostly of a CA nature.

We may need strong and detalled

Justification in order to secure approval for renewal.

Theresa

H. BUCHARDY

Distribution:

2 - COS, Mexico City

CROSS REFERENCE TO

RI

Chrono

LIHUFF

50-124-28/1

1 3 APR 1967

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND HUNGER

HHMN-15391

DATE

3 Apт11 1967

CUSSFICATOR

680W1

Eastaded tram eutenalis

CArTING 13

HOS FILE NUMBER

•SECRET

50-124-2841

ORIGINATING

OFFICE

WH/1

EXT

6954

COORDINATING

OFFICE SYMBOL

MINEDEE

DECEINED

OFFICERS RAME

838 11

7229

ABSTRACT X

• ч-да

CrESCE STUBOL

•. C/WH/1

DATE

tio

1401

FORM ED

RELEASING

1

PEL # 40

88Ms

---

## Page 43

14-00000

=..

DISPATCH

Chief of Station, Mexico City

CASSIFICATION

SECRET

PROCESSIPiG ACTION

MARLO FOR BEEXING

ONLY QUALIBAD GETA

CAN NOCK ICONE

ACHOFFLEU

FROM

Chief, WH Division

LIHUFF Project Approval

ACTION REQUES - REFRENCES

Action Required: FYI

Reference

: HMMA-28937, 13 May 1966

Project LIHUFF was approved 18 June 1966 for $4, 200 for the

period 1 July 1966 to 30 June 1967.

Distribution:

Orig & 1 - COS, Mexico City

CROSS REFERENCE TO

RI/

Chrono

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

IML 14683

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

OFFICE

WH/1/

OFFICE SYMBOL

CATE

50-124-281

03. 00-X DATE

4 June 1966

INATING

TYPIST

COORDINATING

EXT.

3654

OFFICER'S NINE

ANI

OFFICE SYMBOL

C/WH/1

6/24

,101

14: 53

USE PREVIDUS EDITIO'

ATEL

120-, 1. 28-20048611

+51+031557947221

---

## Page 44

SECRET

(ohen Filled fr)

JEET CRIPTORTA

PRO-GUT ACTION

TYPE CF ACTION

APPROVAL

--19a.

AMENOMENT

NO.

FI/CI

CA

LTHUFF

OTHER

Western Hemisphere

FIELD STATION

Mexico City

BRANCH

DESK

ry 196867

One

Mexico

EXTENSION

TERMINATION

CASE OFFICED

Charlotte

ROOM 70.

GUILOPAG

332

Ames

CONCURRENCIES OF DIVISION

TEL.

EXT.

DATE

7 June 1966

RES

BLACK

3654

TYPED NAME (and signature)

DATE

H. J. Kautnan

f heme it

ORGANIZATIONAL

ELEMEST

с/кн/1

C/WH/B8F

c/wH/sS

C/WH/FI

WI/EXO

DO AUT LE

THIE SOICE

Lu fue 66

M Jun 46

18/6

CONCURRENCIES OF OTHER COMPONENTS

DATE

COPY

NES93

an.

YES 1AO

APPROVAL

PERIOD

1 July 1966 | 30 June 1967

AMOUNT OF ACTION

FY

190%

$ 4,200.00

APPROVING AUTHORITY

Chief, WH Division

тОЯм

5-85 848

William V. Broe

SECRET

TOTAL AVOUNT

34 200.00

•DATE

18 JUN 1366

{5)

---

## Page 45

1-00006

a crisis drops omena

•12:

'son

SECRET

8 June 1966

MEMORA/DUM FOR: Chief, WE Division

SUBJECT

: LIHUPT Froject Rereral

L It ls requested that the WIlUFT Project be renewed fo:

the period 1 July 1966 through 30 June 1957 fu: 54, 200. It wa

approved for 59,000 Last year, reflecting a 50 per cent cut this

year in an effort to cut to a mininun project obligations. Funds

2. WHurt provides the Station's only agent with access to

rightist political organizations. The informition gathered through

LIHUr? 1 is used mainly for background information for operational

activity in Mexico.

3. Since July 1965, LTHUFT has been the source of five positIve

intelligence reports - four on rightist and leftist university

activity and the fifth on the Fondo de Cultura Economica polishing

house.

4. WH/1 recoumends renevel.

inter i wat

Walter J. Kaufman

c/wH/I

SECRET

Le das: Coallas

---

## Page 46

L. SPATCH

Chief, WID

CLASSIRICATION

SECRET /YAPOK

TO

NFO

FROM

Chief of Station, Mexico CItr

SUBJECT

Project LIHUFF Request for Renewal

ACTION RIQUARED - RIFERENCES

PROCESSING ACTION

MARKED FOR BN000HG

NO LOCKING BEGINED

ONLY QUALFED DESH

CAN AUDGE LADDING

MICROFILM

Reference: HMMA-26353, dated 15 June 1965

Attached Is the LIHUFF Project Reneval submitted for

the period 1 July 1906 through 30 June 1967 fOr E total ol

US$ 4,200.00 all of which will be spent in Fiscal Year 1967.

discara. E. Cateri

for/Willard C. CURTIS

Attechnent: (spl1t)

Left hand side h/w

Right hand side usc

Distribution:

3 - c/KHD w/att h/v& use

----

CROSS REFERENCE TO

; COPY

EISPATCH STACECA AND SENIEN

HMMA-25937

CLASSFICAI

SECRET KAPOK

50-124-2811

DATE

13 May 1956

HOS FILE NUMBER

50 124-28

as marcia malice indone

---

## Page 47

14-00000

30%

REQUEST POR PROJECI RENEHAL

PROJECT,_

LIHUFE

Willard C. Curti

STATION

Mexico City

on so illa ( Certi

Willard C. Curtis

FORMEDED DY SRUT MUSISHISSION

NO FIELD DISSEMMATION.

50-124-2811

Le SIdEO FASTTO HM4A-28937

RISIdLOFATT.NNE HMA9-28937

---

## Page 48

14-00000

...

• .

CONTESEN

REQUEST FOR REVErAL

PROTECT LIHUFF

A. CURRENT OBJECTIVES

be objective of this project 15 to provide for the operation

id administrative support for a high-level contrect egent, LIHUrR

who has access and is a participant in the right-wing political

elements and organizations in Mexico; and through one of these con

tacts, has access to a right ving student group (principally at the

Universidad Nacional Autonoma de Mexico - UNAM).

B, CHANGES

1) Operational Mechanism

The LIHUFF Project was approved in September 1965 for the period

1 July 1965 through 30 June 1966. LIHUFF/1, the singleton agent

Involved, has been e contact of the Mexico Station since 1950.

Before that time he was a contract agent for Station Panama when he

was In business in that area.

In November 1962 the relationship as

formalized into contract status with LIHUFP/1 acting es a funding

channel. to an anti-Conunist research group and rightest student group

headed by LIHUFF/2, as well as handling LICHANT/1 and reporting on

right-wing activities from other conservative business sources.

This

activity

was

funded from Station O0A urt11 1 July 1965. The LINUFF

Project provided only for salary and operational expenses for LIUFP/1.

2) Agents

The only agent to be supported by this project for the coming year

16 LIHUFF/1.

No further subsidies are planned to LIHUF?/2. LICHANI/1

was relleved of his position

Jand 1s not

Included as a part of the LIlUre Project.

However, LHUFF/1 continues

in his private business capacity to solicit funds for the LIHUFE/2 group

and will continue to use them as sources for infornation on right-wing

political activities.

C. INTELIICENCE PRODUCTION

he Mexico station mekes no effort to justify this project on the basi

i positive intelligence disseminations. The Information is primaril

for background. It is often too sketchy for formal dissenination and is

-...-.

---

## Page 49

14-00000

-2-

frequently overtaken by public events before a dissemination c:n be

made.

LIHUFT/1 meets regularly with and is handled directly by

111ard C. Curtis, Chief of Station Mexico. The agent is used t

btain information in response t

I In addition to

on all political group depende upon station Mexico for information

LIHUFF/1 represents the only high-level

source trained and available who can circulate freely in Mexicar

concervative political circles and provide the Mexico Station witl

Information on their activities.

During the past project year

LIHUFF/1 has provided the Station with the following general

categories of information:

L) Memoranda on leftists or Coumunist affiliation of members of

the Mexican intellectual and official community

generally based on contribution of funds or public assistance

In behalf of known leftist or Communist organizations, hence

the Information is useful for background rather than dissemination.

2) Information on Catholie Church activities in Mexico, Ireluting

press clippings and periodic reports on the rightest student

action group, Movimiento Universitario Renovadora Orientacion

(MURO) active at the Universidad Necional Autonoma de Mexico

(UNAM), the Universities of Pueble, Guadajalara and Michoacan®

HM-10,325, the only positive intelligence dissemination received

from LIHUFF during the past project year was obtained from the

MURO group at UNAM. In August 1965, Chief, PBSVING assed for

a complete report on "Los Tecos", a right-wing Catholic secret

society of which MURO is a student ar.

This intornation wes

required by Chief, PBSWINS, to make a decision on the application

of the Universidad Autonoma de Guadalajera (U.A.G.) for certain

U.S. Goverment-sponsored monetary grants of several hundred

thousand dollers to be used for development of this anti-

Communist University which is competitive with the Communist

dominated University of Guacalajara.

From background data

previously supplied by LIhUFF and otber sources, a detailed

report was made available to Chief, PBSWING.

3) Anti-Connunist publications from LIHUFF/2's right-wing

research center and MURO student publications, all of which

are available to Headquarters and are of interest to the Statios

for background.

D. ERRaCTIVENESS

This project provides the Station with a window into right-wing

-..

---

## Page 50

tried te

balancing for leftist and Communist pressure groups.

One oxample

of this can be cited in action taken by student MURO leaders in August

1965. The Cuban Ambassador to Mexico, Joaquin HERNANDEZ, Armas, set

about making speeches at Mexican (leftist) Universities"of-Tabasco,

Michoacan and Guadalajara proposing, Maxican-Cuban student exchanges.

MURO members Immediately set up a storm of public protest, demanding

that HEFNANDEZ Armas be declared persona non-grata for spreading

subversive propaganda and agitating on university campuses.

This

caused HERNANDEZ, Armas to be a target for considerable unpleasant

press publicity.

Through LIHUFF/1, the Station Mexico can exploit

such Incidents when it 16 to KUBARK's advantage to do so.

E. PROBLEMS

There have been no significant security, cover or control problems

with ItlUr?/1 during the project yeer.

P. LIAISON

This project involves no llaison relationship.

d. INTER-AGENCY COORDINATION

This project involves no Inter-agency coordination.

F. PLANS

Station Mexico plans to continue to use LIHUrr/1 as an informant ano

nonitor of activities of right-wins political minority groups.

I. FUNDS

I. For the past perlod.

Is avallable for the remainder of the project year.

---

## Page 51

• =

SURST neX

2. During the next project year.

During the period 1 July 1966 through 30 June 1967, an

estizated US$ 4,200.00 1e requested. It will be used in the

LIKUEE/1 Salary

Operational expenses

$3,600.00

600.00

.. Lus.

Total

demon, -..

$4, 200.00.

The above represents wbat Chief of Station Mexico belleves 1B

the sinium that will be required to keep a working-level

relationship with this very useful agent.

J. ANNEX

None.

K. EMEROZICY CONDITICIS

If an official enti-USA atmosphere of sufficient intensity prevailed

1n l'exico, It 1s unlikely that LInurr/2 could remair:

in the countr

In a general emergency, LIHUFT/I world

maintain cortact by Chief of Station Mexico by telephone, well or

SENS, 00K

---

## Page 52

14-00000

DISPATCN

O1ai,Gl EtAtI0n, 198100 619

'ies'?

Chter, sN 11715100

MISFAAS, ETTEI8/LED'T

15 R =i,878.

Retled

Trra Lnedl:

LE 10O RCO

TYOSNS BOTEN +j000 192005l

18411-204-23

No I9 LIQNT 19n4et 18ila0 eo?i

Tin riure if the iraraal sinernoe frota

Indaonterd el die iano il'ene der'se aliii des and il, me roynr tiost tbo

posIvad (ort d0i0) 19411 10S0549S 108 1t0g PL di Me ti.

In slen ar the lasi dl ary bgeen pojarela in nae dhre a josra (ahe

Zuert 00e ve9 KS4-7533;

doad 2 i% 5010 16l6 irodquortarg m bara o ciriloaie

thee inypain t9 00t1e 1090417.

MIG-TIFT, YOO ST-11 5090E98

Cairly doraila P0rera 1i

iiae tagee,t.

NGNt D.999.114 1kd:

wonis de intbli1 eel1 1ie Cile

muslred tron Lllat dueler, sbo taderiar pear lia. (aio +43) 881440 15 CDSB0 V

1n 2hl1.

W960 bhe+ 49661591819

Terein

14

sA perebral sant

+719 1295008 311

1. Do resaond in tee banld ut latalihynace dll0ti abire.

i5ei04s t90enc1ont

MoiT Juetiry rytatica e LOa1 en dy oeT unin, to ONtIAiTatO a FOy

onitleal ant risgrapstale mtaption ly tho mosa muiring sotaae.e1ee.

3. IOn falaml iT Ai-lIn lAt IInt CUIl, 11s t kii lns Totene

of hla 1014:00

Ioa mle a18dial0 08la0the 42919

"TOINO SPIINI DIAINdIn 09 41641a50 19

AIDS AANOS ANAGTTIC NY 10TT M0 D3IUAN ONEENSIG00 OS STIpEON "OE)

LTCIA-1 003 101450 Teted li Jeraeg 105)

Henlar turi in th inn in ten haunre thnt th0

FE HIN MINTINIIN

14 2U% FUNZLi, D ILrSS003 OP

22 20l2 1503 Ein Eier Daato +T adiTasi

ele pearlone sainaery wiss eis Shettas,

1t heud lag ttsd diast ly -hen tin:

AilGDeIdAd0tIi9 D9e4t

omasitedlnsie1 60 89739911695

"nadcanere tanlter tiae do WlinT Etalai

ncuir:s s304id mit m06iber lins ims 0n en.

tháe Tae So4n1a 10

Tenigsanionà malcausa Diii lletr60s: Ra, biào o8 di rrros 1566.

ESa MIrTa RaL" ViPelEs:

Coruee DiAd PIn Tarn, 8L24

4e drui iocl Noels Sune Poes 9a9 1014,00 10

iT 1967 1n tho Ormastdonat iran, 10

conl tiae s98 ilifetiind psioat 6t +500

WIT 19 DI010n 0SI0T:

"ie ts its artaeet

10041T1ad 10 81ar0at5 id thê Loraidicode dai sostee.

caast1ones$, 6o

D4E91359194

2• C00s 1a00 019

13 03812 1556

Jeu ott

10967 4-4920

CBCIAT

E: tei

--2190599901

6370 8.1 1: 87d

::-19d

+81÷818 2i7 dints

1 8APR 1966

50rdm 127/3

N 93/3

192401

j 2.01

rog t

it.:

---

## Page 53

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

CLANAIFICATION

BNC 839

EINNTCH SMANCR LNO NLAGES

18357 24700

So lE gun tu, Dn t0 Fos telt eo lAr TI 106Y, d igent E Bal

rriuel dluny fe aiu uniny vaich en be rolzed.

tn engeed tost dhe

Dtatim tah o dlen lodat liiy hel laieo prale ii sum mu

mi thet ii muranl is doolen een, an attengs he maio t9 puunsa the opureliti

teeraly cnà erieratmais allanaes.

Tag esourts c suuny noa e540 fer muc

epmns ur an boug qmeisona a bonmture mioas trry ao suoyuty srglntn

dn thi Pralest ganewnl.

Mdato L OCALENT

d'igntea e !

gant.

trsigisjrigeroe

.........-

---

## Page 54

DISPATCH

CLASSITICATION

SECRET

Chief of Station, Mexico City

TO

FROM

SUBJECT

FROCESSING ASHION

MAPLED FLA PRODING

DO INOCVING POURES

DALY QUALIFILD DESA

CAN RIDGE INDURS

Chief, WE Division

LIHUFF

AC REQ: FYI

Project LIHUFF was approved I September 1965 for

$9, 000 for the period 1 July 1965 to 30 June 1966.

Ernest A. LUSBY

Distribution:

Orig. & 1, COS, Mexico City

CROSS REFERENCE TO

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

HAMW 13953

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

RI

Chrono

OFFILE

WH/1

OFFLE SYMBOL

50-124-281

CS COPY

DATE

09 SEP 1905

8 September 1965

HQS FILE NUMBER

279

50-124-28/1

ORIGINATING

TYPIST

bp

/EXT.

1523

COORDINATING

DATE

OFFICER'S NAME

Twi,

206 13

05 M1.82

Hit

HE UNG 511220

C/WHD

DATE

RELEASING

William

Y.

Broe

fate

---

## Page 55

14-00000

SECRET

PROJECT APPROVAL NOTIFICATION

PROJECT

[PROPRIETARY

DIRECT

AREA

I THUFF

ACTION

NEW PROJECT

AMENDMENT

REdENAL

TERMINATION

EXTENSION

OTHER

APPROVING AUTHORITY

chief, wh

PERIOD OF APPROVAL

FRON -

CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL

1 JUL 65 10- 30 Ja 66

DIVISION

BRANCH

NH/1

DESK

Rosico

CASE OFFICER

AUTHORIZATION

TOTAL AMOUNT APPROVED

9,000

EXTENSION

9506

FY

196

6

196

6855-2192

AMDUHT

$9,000

mutate.

SIGNATURE

DATE

7 SaF 1965

DISTRIBUTION

FORM 849 UEEPREYIOUS

SECRET

43)

---

## Page 56

14-00000

SECRET

(Whoa Pilled In:

PROJECT ACTION

.* CRYPTONTA

LIHUFF

TYPE OF ACTION

NEW PROJECT

APPROVAL

AMENDMENT

NO.

FIC!

OTHER

DIVISION

Western Hemisphere

FIELD STATION

Mexico City

RENEWAL

ry 1966

BRANCH

RESK

WH/1

EXTENSION

CA!

TERMIMATION

ROOM NO.

BUILDING

3B2607

Hdqs.

CONCURRENCIES OF DIVISION

TEL

EXT.

Mexico

2 July 1935

RED

—BLACK

9325

4506

TYPED NAME (and alanatare)

M. J. Kaufman luskantia

DATE

20/2/65-

ORGANIZATIONAL

ELEMENT

C/WH/1

WH/B&F

WH/SS

C/WH/POA

WE/EXO

DO NOT USE

THIS SPACE

1/20/65

8/4/63

CONCURRENCIES OF OTHER COMPOMENTS

DATE

COPY

MEMO ATTACHED

YES NO

TATE

PERIOD

1 July 65

APPROVING AUTHORITY

C/WHD

FORM

TORM 848 11591611 PREVIOUS

30 June 66

APPROVAL

AMOUNT OF ACTION

FY

1906

$9,000 г

196

171iam V

SECRET

TOTAL AMOUNT

$9,000

DATE

9.1

......t

---

## Page 57

SECRET

MEWORANDUM FOR: Chief, Western Hemisphere Division

SUBJECT

:

Renewal of Project LIHUFF

..

1.

Renewal is requested of the LIHUFF Project for the

period 1 July 1965 through 30 June 1966 for a total of

$9,000.

The LIHUFF Project was originally approved on 20

April 1965 for $7,500 for the period 1 January 1965 to

30 June 1965 as a CA Project.

It has been decided that

the direction of the agent under this project and the

project objectives in general will be changed from CA to

FI, and therefore, The Operational Program for FY 1966

the renewal request is being submitted

as an FI Proicct

included LiHime for $16.000. Funds are available in w

Division.

2.

The Project objectives under CA were to support

and sustain MURO,

a national right-wing student movement,

through a long-established anti-communist front organiza-

tion

in Mexico,

the Instituto de Investigaciones Sociales

y Economicas

(IISE) .

This support was terminated effective

30 June 1965 as it became apparent that the IISE was

financially capable of providing this support on its owr

and MURO became more and more controversial and extrenely

militant on the far right.

Under the new project sub-

mitted by the Station, support will be provided

to a U.s.

contract agent who has

access

to a wide variety of

right-

wing political elements and organizations in Mexico.

The

station rich protecter the only protect 1 ache ley co

than LICHANT-1,

center. Other

other access to

SEGRET

seeine,

te nightrari

---

## Page 58

SEUICT

-2-

4.

Headquarters and the Station are looking forward

to receiving better coverage on the rightist political

activity in Mexico.

WH/l is preparing guidelines and

requirements for this project which will reflect the needs

of the intelligence community.

These requirements will be

furnished the field so that proper utilization can be made

of LIHUFF-1 and his contacts and informants.

During the

last fiscal year,

three reports were credited in full or

in part to LIHUFF-1.

Last year the Station submitted regular quarterly

progress reporting in addition to more detailed reporting

on certain activities.

The Station will be reminded to

provide a minimum of quarterly reporting during the next

WH/1 recommends approval of the new LIHUFF Project

as it is set forth in the attached Station renewal request.

The delay in submission of the renewal request is that it

was just decided to change this Project to FI and cancel

out most of the CA aspects.

As a CA Project the renewal

request was not due at Headquarters until mid-July 1965.

1

W. J. Kaufman

Chief, wh/

SECRET

---

## Page 59

14-00000

WH/POA 289-63

1 August 1988

HEHORANDUM FOR: DC//WED

SUBJECT

LIHUTT Renewal

Project LIHUTY has been active as & CA project for

It 1s now being ronowed and subaitted as

an il projoet.

Its purpose and objective le to support a

singleton U.S, contract agent (LIEUTY 1) who has access to a

wide vartety

of right wing political elenonts and organien-

tions in Mexico In order to develop Inforuation on this

political and social sector. This effort 1a l

Ithe only one which

covers rightist political activity la lexico.

Bince LIHUFY vas previously « CA project, there 45,

therefore, no data on which to judge past intelligence groduet

although three reports resulted in tho past yoar.

Desk and the Station are taking stepe to prepare suitable

requirements in keoping with LIHUTt-l's access and the objectives

of the project.

3.

The reporting recelved from the Station with regard ro

the operational status of the agent and projoct appears to

have been adequate In the past. There are no apparent security

or control probleus.

*. $9,000 hes been requested in support of the projeet

effective 1 July 1965.

01 this amount $5,400 1s warked for

and travel.

this latter figure 18 somewhat excessive when viewed against

anticipated

operational activity and in all likelihood only

very littlo of 1t will be expended.

5.

Project LIHUFF is recomnended for approval.

C/WH/POA

-03=77

---

## Page 60

XX

SECRET

Then Filled In)

PROJECT ACTION

TYPE OF

ACTION

ME#

PROJECT

APPROVAL

AMENDMENT

но.

Fr 196

EXTENSION

TERMINATION

LICI

D:V15150

restern Zenisphere

FIELD STATION

Neaico

BRANCH

13/1

DESH

RO2ы a0.

BUILDING

302007

Readquerters

CONCURRENCES OF DIVISION

TYPED NAIE (And signature)

pistend

PROJECT COMPTONYM

XX TCA

Mexico

CRGANIZATIONAL

ELENENT

c/1n1/1

• C/NE/SS

NH/CA/PC

C/HE/CA

NE, EXO

EXTERSION

4523

DATE

COPY

•LE RICRANOLAR ATTACHED

ню..

DaTE:

25e6651

0055= 1955

-OF OTHER COMPONENTS

CI/OPS

CCS

DC/CA

DDP/PG/CA

DDP/C-PG

1, 57.

FROM

1 Jan 1965

ARPROVING AUTHCAITY

6-60 848 2119119

PERIOD

то

APPROVAL

TOTAL AMOLNT

30 Jene 1955| $ 7,500

SECRET

FY

ANOUNT

196 71 $ 7,500

196

DATE

20 APR 1965

---

## Page 61

SECRET/KAPOK

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Western Henlaphere Div18100

SUBJECT

: Approval of Project LIHUFP

1. WH/1 requests approval of Project LIHUFF In the arount of

$7,500 for the second half of FY 1965.

The project has been pro-

grarmed in the anount of $20,000 for FY 1965 and these funds are

available in WH.

FICANCIAL DAZA:

Fiscal Year

From Developmental Funds

1963

$ 5,000

1964

19,000

1965 (Second half)

7,500

2.

This sew project is to provide some support and help sus.

tain an Independent Mexican anti-communist group called the Institut

de Investigaciones Sociales y Economicas. The group founded in 1953

has as Its aim the spreading of the principles of free enterprise and

private Initlative. LIHUFF 18 particularly active 1a the student field,

having orgenized a nation-wide, right-wing, active student organization

called Morimiento Universitario de Renovadora Orientacion (MJRO).

LIHUFF lunds will be used to pay a salary to LIHUFF-1, an Anerican

businessnar with previous experience with CIA in Panama, and for spot

covert action activities such as the militant anti-comunist student

activities in the universities aud the placement of articles in the

3. Effectiveness

During the developmental period of this activity, the

following Indications of effectiveness have been reported:

could accomplish. (Station funds no longer support "Espejo.")

Bo The IISE continues to provide the Station wih e research

facility not othervise available.

Provided the Station with a valuable intellectual asset,

Manuel Calvillo Alonso, who 16 a source of fI on right-ving political

groups and who completed a book at Station request on the "Penetra-

tion of the lexican Educational System by Cormunists."

SECRET/ KAPOK

9977599797985P

-"-."..

---

## Page 62

924h325-249742454

SECRET/KAPO

MURO continues to place anti-communist articles in the national pedia

òf Interest to students and governent leaders; MIRO has car-led out

successful denonstrations against the Soviet Bebassy.

B. MURO took an active part In cabling the Chilean govern-

eat pept ting the counto nature of the latin auerican outa

F. LIHUFF-2 1s used by the Station for writing and plecing

certain typee of strong anti-Soviet articles in Excelsior and Bl

Untversal.

ment to Cuba.

Ho Security

The IIS is funded througs a cut-out in such a way that CIA

participation is concealed.

Only LIHUFF-1, who 18 net clandestinely

I this activity

progres report nose tete proofed ole ce has been adequate, F1%0

W. J. Kaufran

Chief, #B/1

5..=

¡ :

"....

---

## Page 63

14-00000

:

SECHER/BAPOK

PROJECT LIEUrE

A. Identification

Mexico CIty, l'exico--Political action. See C. below for otber cuintries

which may become Involved.

B. Objectises:

To support and sustain & national right ving student noverent, Moviniert:

Inversitario de Renovadora Crientacion (MunO), through a long-established

anti-conunist front orcasization in lexico, the Instituto de Irrestigaciones

Sociales y Economicas (IISE). Is raintain and Influence signseicantiy this

Iront group by obtaining a measure of substential control throus this

continued fundire. To assist in raintaining i counterbalancing i-cluence

on the conmon party, PRI, against far leitist pressures through this

organization,

IISE.

To acconglish the following objectives in the Related

Mission Directive: Priority A. Si; Priority i. 3a, b, c.

C.

Eackground.

1.

The IISE was founded In 1953 unier the auspices si a exoto o

Merican bankers,

Industrialists, aul merchants to spread the prisciples of

free enterprice and private initiative.

Since Its founding,

the goup has

erranged a nurber of reetings and congresses designed to explore tha

dangers of Comuunion, particularly in Its econonic aspects, aza arper-

rationalisu; it has organized the student excup MURO; It has publisired bodis,

pamphlets,

and news letters on Comunis as ell as the cangers of economic

socialisu;

1t nas engaged in considerable press placetent on turies

ratters involving private initiative and the Cormunist threat; a? 1t has

accumulated a file

0° basic date

on events and individuels revolting about

Cormunisa

thai would be difficult for any private lexican grom to

duplicate.

2. In June 1950, LIhUTT-1 visited the Labassy's Political Coucelor

• and requested an Embassy contest with LIHET-2's organization. Salsequently,

the Ambassador asked the COS to explore the possibility of girl-s finencial

scip

to the group beaded by Ltaurr-2.

In mid-Auzust 1952 (225-2530 RIZAT),

Oliver G. GABOND advised the loxico Station that the group has sees

receiving partial financial aid from a prouy of U.S. business sorporations

solicited by lr. lenry Hollard, son deceased, and that jenuguarters had

elso provided sore financial assistance through this channel.

death of Ir. Follend, It vas recoended that the funding be headled

through the lexico Station.

Specialcally, this was to help pay esr the

publication "Espejo," an econoric journal which strongly supports the free

enterprise syster.

The Ambassador ans consulted and be replied seat he

thought LInUrF-2 was one of the few economists in lexico fighting Cormunist.

SECRET/KAPOE

stayin,

Mersinter 918s 14494

---

## Page 64

SECREE/FAICK

* 5A-3533 tet t1sayy so china 1ot dould de done to support

3. A project was sabritted by the Station on 22 March 1903 (224-20931),

But leadquarters on 12 July I563 1012-53801) Injicated the project had been

disapprored as submittei and that Inutese the stasion funding should support

the student activity 10r0 on a spot assistance basis.

Inis was done with

the U.S, business associates on Liner-l's picking lp the cost of the

Lagazine, scle $1,200 per nonth.

The Station's assistance sirce

that tine has been confined to the pament of IIaU:7-1's salary 6500 per

moath) and the payment de 1500 per monta to suro.

the station,

retains access to the all range of the LIEUT nechanis. and potential.

MURO, the militant stucent organization, 15 entrerely active in the

political action fiela, 1a tbe provinces as sell as 17 the capital.

IISE organisation has its offices in l'exies Citi, with associated offices in

Salvador and Cuaterale and working contacts in the provinces of l'exico and

'In severel capital clties o latin Anorica.

5. LILUr devotes it- offorts to selling the free enterprise systea as

an economic vay of like and 1n defending at every turn individual liberty or

In lexico this tipe of organication 1s rather lique, as the treud

in Hexico is toward nore governrent Interention.

The Iiss also propazes

and sends out

so provincial newspapers

caitorialo icuturin enti-connist

In the last livo jerrs the IS has collected seventy losie-last

editoriel clips authored in the IISa seeice.

organizatos also sponsors e trainino courue at tbich interested groups of

15 to 20 persons arc ladocirinated.

6. LINUPE-2, the Director of the IISE, has shon connlete dedication to

the progra:.

The nembers of the organication, especialiy the students, have

demonstratei courage and corpetence in a variety of operations.

D. Operational Asseus.

1. Personnel.

1. LILUTT-1 is a la-jear-olà heriona businesstan who asts as e

cut-out and operational adviser to Ilaurr-2,

the Director di the group.

LTHU F-1 vorked for CIA In Perama frou April 1947 until April 1040 wen la

returned to hexico. Be mas in contact socially with rechers of the l'erico

Station and in November 1962 was hired for the abore vork.

Training Was

notrequires since LIEUrs-I bas been in Intelligence work fron bis service

with U.S. military Intelligence durine mi.

he was ergaged to work for

U.S. military intelligence in l'exico until late 1562. Ee inows be is

working for CIA. ENN-11040 of 25 October 1962 granted an CA fOr LIBUri-1.

SECRET/KAPOK

---

## Page 65

2. LIaUsT -2 is a 47-year-old [

ke 13 also & well-

In Nexies and

other latin kerican countries.

He 1s set by LIlUFF-1.

LISUFT -2 protably

suspecte that funis may core to him from une U. s. Goverment; however,

cover

used is that the money 1s fron primate business groups.

Ec vas grantes

an Ca on 26 Cotober 1262.

2. Lechanisms.

organization at the University of Vera Cruz, Jslava.

This University has

sore 23,300 students and a sizable communict infiltration in its stulent

Ials nates four universities nou in which :U30 has chapters:

Universtiad lecional Autorona de lexico (UN!), University o° Fuebla,

University of Jucialajara, uni the University of Vera Cruz. Mree o° tbece,

:1th the exception of Guadalajara, are noted centeri c° cornunist activities.

The IISE organisation frecuently and regularly makes press

placezenic in all of lenico City's leadir rerepapero.

Its caitorial

feature: ere alum regularly accepted by provincial publications. Coneral

propaganda una political astiona of the organisation vill he influenced

and guided by the Etation.

been ured by the e To elsteria series or provincial neaspapers tus

ie Ilse's international conrecttons, especially ille

associate? offices in valvador and Cuatanala, *1ll be exploitei.

a. The Station :111 continue to call on the ITSE to 1111

researcà needs.

e. Samples of sublication aná propaganda material are

attaches.

B.

Security Eveluation.

that Did participation is conceales.

any other CIA operetion.

-3-

SSURET/KAFCA

a son..

....

---

## Page 66

SECTEI/LAPOE

F.

coordiration.

Eroup fInancially. Also, the operational use of LInUST-l was cleared vith

U. S. nilitary Intelligerce when it was learned that they also hed an

Interest in using bin in claniestine operations. They are not using him

at the precent time.

2.

Pelationsalo to Other Irojects

So far there here been no basic

problems o conflict since WED is working the Catholic side of the street

while LICON works on the so-callel "independents," and there 1s st1ll

plenty of ros for both to operate.

In this connection, it should be noted

a great deal of MURO student effort 1s devoted to universities outside

Lexico City.

b. LISIPEN: This project is concerned with a nass propaganda

approach to Corruniss in lenico. It 1s headed uy a group of businessmen

known

as the Cormittee of lline.

The only relationshiy betveen LIST ard

LISIREN 1s In the fact that four of the neubers of the Connittee o° line

ere also mombers of LINUrE's 26-=a1 "Soard of Directors."

Tals toes not

recescarily zean an Interlocking directorate betreen the tio projects since,

as in many sinilar activitles in the U. E., individuals interested In

civic or outside activities of this nature are frequently tapped to serve

in multiple sosignnents.

LILISP!C:

Since LILISP/C is a National Student Organiaation

stressing student affairs in the interior of Mexico, obviously LItE and

LILISP/C are working in the sane gereral field in mirersities cutside

Mexico City.

However, in there waiversities in thick laure 1s conceatratiss

Its efforts, this can

be a couplesenta, relationshi? sinca LILIP can

work: in nuch nore depth in those universities than can ilLISP/C end can

affiliate its groups to the LISa/e cational Student Confederation which

single unlversity or stuation.

G. 1. Costs.

It Is requested that the following estimates be approved for use in the

LIHUFT project for the period 1 january 1955 through 30 June 1955.

2164

$ 0,000

FY65

$2,500

Espe jo"

MURD Student Organization

12,000

- то то от wat

8, 000

5,000

-4-

SSCHEI/KAPOK

---

## Page 67

1d-0d0d

SECRET/SAFOK

Station Mexico proposes to pay only a portion of the Ilsa operation.

It 1s

not intended that this partial support will zake the

organization a completely

controlled station asset.

It will rake it responsive to station gidance.

Tue organization receives funds iron private a Juss but the Station does not

know the amounts of

all the donors

and it is unlikely that we will ever know

these exactly.

2.. Foreign Currency.

There are no special requirerents for foreign currenzy.

•3: Corraitnents.

• No permanent connitrents have been made.

to Funding and Accountabllity.

Funds will be paid to LIar-l by the Inside case officer. Receipts

w1l1 be obtairal.

The noney will he paid in cash in local currency. There

are no unususl funding and accountability requirements.

li. Annexes-

1. Aimindstrative Plan or Elscal inrex.

It is not believed that this annes is required for the LIaT Project.

2. Cormunications.

There are no communications reguirements for the present tise.

3. Techaical support.

There are no technical support requirements for this project.

Ho Logistics.

There are no logistical requirements for this project.

5. Intelligence.

operational Intelligence frow other U. S. Agencies is not required.

Intelligence aroduction tron this developrental project has incluiei aire 7i

• 2400 pf^

tits anne marines

sittin.

Raised ran

-5-

-SECRET, NAPOK

---

## Page 68

14-00000

DESTER/LANOS

APIEIDD. I

Principal Cffisers

Di tho IISE:

Director:

LIC. AZUtIn LAVARIO V.

Lic. Carlos SMICEZ NEJORADA

•. Enrique VENEOFT

•IIc. Guctaro R. VELASCO

InG. Jose RODRA ?.

Lic. Pedro Avis Sais

Anihal de IJeus

Mariano R. SUmiba

Ing. Jose de la MICORRA

Jacobo PETEZ Burroco .

Lic. Arturo BlEnO Y Urquídi

Lic. Carlos LOra& de Llereo

Ernesto J.AESCUA

Guillerzo CUAJiRDO Davis

JOSC A. PECADON

LiC. Eduzco FRIE20 Lopez

Antonio L. RODRIGUEZ

Tomas G. COARISA

Lic. Antordo Parez Verdia Jr.

Adolfo I, RIVERLI

Federico SAICIEL Focarty

Clemente SERiA l'ertinez

Cayeteno BlANCO Vigil

Felix. DIAZ Jarca

Enrique AYAlÁ liedina

SECRET/KAPOK

donado sinto

10x+74,

---

## Page 69

ins.

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET/KAPOK

1° Chief, WH Division

INFO.

Chlot of Station, Mexico cler We

Project Approval Request

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

PROCESSING ACTION

MATED FOR INDEXING

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

LY QUALIFIED DESK

"AAB JU" DE INDEXING

MICHOFILM

I. The attached project outline is presented for approval.

could be changed

It would be

appreclated if the cryptonym of LIHUFF/I

to conform with the new project cryptonym.

Silent Godis

Enclosures:

Left hand side, h/w

Right hand side

3: Identities, side/c

u/s/c

Distribution:

-z WH, w/encls

FELD DESERZATION.

692221

Each d Les Leat:

await a11

25 AS COPY

PAON OR ANO NUMBER

HMMA -26353

CLASSIFICATION

SEGRETRAPOK

DATE

50-124-28/1

15 June 1965

HQS FILE NUMBER

---

## Page 70

14-00000

ir".-.

I. Energency Conditions.

Siace the Director se the goug is = Mexican rational, he could continue

11ving and worling in lanies in the event of energency anti-U. E. situations;

Eewaver, a change In the Mexican political scene ray

not affect the group's offices in other Latin American countries.

In the

event of on energency situation, contact can be maie by the case officer

wiüh either LIHUFT-1 Or LIiur?-2.

-6-

SSCRET/КАРОК

---

## Page 71

14-00000

ORIG

UNIT WE/T

ĐT .4523

DATE ,21 APRIL 1965

1o Mexico City

FROM.

DIRECTOR

34118

• Son

DD NO IND

IR FILE IN CS AL NO. 50-224-28/1

15

61

7

12

22 Am 65 23

SIG CEN

27 z

aNO CA2, PG2, VRIFILE, C/OA

TO

MEXI

INFO.

CITE DIR

REFS:

A. НИМА 25728*

03908

B. DIR 9977444

MESPAWN LI HUFF

LIHUFF APPROVED 20 APRIL 65 FOR $7500 LAST HALD FY 65.

DECISION AS DISCUSSED IN JAN 65 WITH STATION IS TO TERMINATE

BY JUNE 65 ALL SUBSIDIES TO MURO, IN EVENT LIHUFF-2

RETAINED ON PAYROLL IN FY 66 STATION SHOULD RENEW LIKUFF

AS SUPPORT PROJECT ORE PLACE I 1 UNDER OTHER PROJECT.

END OF MESSAGE

WH Comment:

*The Station would appreciate a response to the

status

of the LIkUFF project and what has been

the final

decision.

** Please advise effective

date LIHUFF-] MOC

change.

Expect for second half FY 65 $2500 for Ll salary.

WE/PO/B

DESMOND FITZGERALD

CHIEF, WHD

AILRABIN® ОГРССА

XXXUX W. J. KAUFMAN

(CHIEF, WH/I

File to the

50-124-2811

COORDINATiNO OFFICERS

BRCRET

AUTH

netaded ins

downgrading

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFICE IS PROHIBITED

---

## Page 72

SECRET

PROJECT APPROVAL NOTIFICATION

PROJECT LIHUFF

FICI

DIRECT

AREA

ACTION

NEW PROJECT

AMENDALAT

RENEW

TERMINATION

EXTENSION

OTHER

WH

APPROVINO AUTHORITY

Chiod, WH Division

PERIOD OF APPROVAL

FroM A July 1964

CONDITIONE OF APPROVAL

20 April 1965

_ T0_30 Jusa 1965

BRANCH

DESK

Mexico

CASE OFFICER

AUTMORIZATION

TOTAL AMOUNT APPROVED

$ 7,500

INANCIA

YNEC

€523

AMOUNT

196 g

196

5135-2452

Froject LIHUFF approved ta cha amount of 37, 500 for FY 1965.

sIGNATURE

(Signed)

DATE

27 APR 1965

APR 0120

FINANCE

FORM 849 UOTPONEIOUS

DISTRIBUTION

394-D0/5

SECRET

000/ Me

(B)

---

## Page 73

14-00000

ton.

ORK

ENIT, TITS

EXT : 4523

DATE: 7 AprIl 1955

TO, LEXICO CITY

FROM

DIRECTOR

CONF:

WNS

15XI

MISPAWN LINUrT

I NO INDEX

EE FILE IN CS ILE NO.

MESSAGE FORM

17/

SECRET

50-124-28/2

N

NO PGL, CAI

1R, 5.12 €

INFO,

CITE DIR

ROUTING

5

113n65 cd

Gate:

99774

EXPECI APPROVAL LIHUTE TOTAL $7,500 LAST HALF FY 65. OF THIS

32,500 FOR INSUET-1 SALARY IN LIE DISCUSSION NITE CURTIS FE LIEU?.

PLS ADVISE SAFECTIVE DADE COSSANE CLAYOR.

EMD 05 13SS40S

527

enges did note

-

WE/BST

(in draft)

2/u4/PC

= .,

5

Desmond FitzGerald

C/VED

RELEASINE OfFICER

/ 3/2

Kaufman

50-124-28/1

COORDINATING OFFICERE

SECRET

GROUP 1

Enchanted loses

and

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy fis.

set at asid sita asia time

---

## Page 74

14-00000

SECRET

(When Filled 1a)

PROJECT CRYPTONYM

RGANIZATIONAI

LEMEN

c/92/1

PRO'ECT ARTION

TYPE OF

ACTICA

NEW

PROJECT

APPROVAL

AMENDMENT

No.

sr 196

EXTENSION

TERMINATION

DIVISION

FIELD STATION

BRASCH

an/s

DESK

TYPED NAME

ROOM AD

382607

Hoodenartars

CONCURRENCES OF DIVISION

(And signature)

No do Kastan

EXTENSION

4583

DATE

COPy

MENCRANDLOA ATTACHEE

NO.

YES NO

CATE

6/17/53

NE/CA/PO

Dessert F1&s0oralA

CONCURRENCES OF OTHER COMPONENTS

FERIOD

3 Ja 1963

UTHORITY

20 Jano 296,

SIGRATURE

APPROYAL

TOTAL AMOUNT

187.500

FY

196g

196

ANOUNT

DATE

8-60

848

SECRET

---

## Page 75

--

SECRET/KAPOK

FEMDRAIUM FOR: Chief, lestern Fenlophare Division

SUBISCE

& Approval of Project LIlUF?

lo it/l requesta approval of Projoct LINUPP In the sount of

$7.500 for the saroad bal of FY 1965.

the project has been pro-

granned 1a the anount of $20,000 for FY 1965 and these funde are

arailable in With.

PIRANCIAL DADA:

I25C8L Yenr

Fron DeveLopental Funds

1,963

$ 5,000

1900

19,000

1965 (second hall)

7,500

2.

This new project is to provida some support and belp Bu

tain an lipondent berlean atf-eunist group called the Inatituto.

de Investignciones Scelalea y Econouicas. The Group founded In 1953

has as lta sin the spreading of the principles of Iree extemprim an

private luciativa. Miur is partioularly setive in the student field,

having orgaulied a Ition ride, right ring, active student organisation

called Bovielento Universitario de Renoradora Urtentacion (1a0).

suit timis viil be unod to pay a salery to LilufF-t, en Auerican

astern bit previous experience with a in ranars, erd for sot

covert action sotivitiee euch as the cilitant anti- cushuist student

activities in the undvertitics and the placement of erticina in tbe

press.

So Effectivenoss

Daring the developmental pertod of thie astivity, tha

follering sudications of effectsusnese have been reported!

F'ormer Arbansador Thoma Vann valuad the IICE publica.

tion "Zopajo" as north far more than that one men in the field

could accouplial. (Station funta no longer support "Espejo.")

The IDSE contimma to provide the Station vin a rusearch

facility not otherules availablo.

Co Provided the Station with a valuable Intellectul asset,

kamal. Calvillo Alonso, tho 10 & source of FI on right ving political

groups and sho completet a book at station request on the

"Penotra-

11on of the Mexican Bluostional System by Corramiote."

ЕВСКБТ/КАРОК

---

## Page 76

14-00009

------------------s

БИСЛЕТ / ХАРОЕ

Do KIRO'$ 200 sbock troope har compalened vigorously

seninat Commim and pro-Castro growa at the lotional Univeruity

(UAN), and la cha Unvorosties of Puabls and Oradala jar.

MURO

tabes m jor credit for the ouster la pest southo of Commist rectora

Tres the Universition of Montertay, Fabla, Oncalajars, ani Horollas

NURO contan to place anti-commiot articlos in the mtial cable

of laterat to students and govorment leadara; Muno bas carrled oat

nucoersful comonstrations againt the soviet babussy.

E. Kro took an netire part 19 cabling the Callen Borera

ment protesting the Connlat mature of the latin Anerican Youth

Conference in santiago.

8. LIUlY 2 1o used by the Etation for writtes eat placing

certain typaa of strong anti-soviet articles in Excelator and Bl

Valveral.

• LIAR -2 acquired evidence of a lares purchase o

merican hospital supplice by tro prodessors at UNAl for tranship

mont to cu

No Security

of this activity.

Paperting en this proposed project has been adequato. Five

progress roports vere rceived during the past year.

No J. Kauran

в 24 799 19 фут

---

## Page 77

1d-0d0d

do Icontificatlor

Maz1oo CITY, Pudo--Political Action, UBe E. below fer Other courtrten

whith may secons involved.

B. 0bj00t1v00.

to arpor on stech & mitional righe ving atwient novesent, Novintaut

alversitarlo de lonorados Crioutaelon (IURO), Spouis a long esrabllabo

arti comaiet pont enasisation in lesleo, the Instisuto da Inviatignetons

Soctales y Econondeas (INS), To mailitala and incluaneo significantly thie

front grouy by cotrintua a nonsuro of babstantial control througe tale

contined funting.

To assiot in mintuirang a counterbalancias influace

on tha comos perty, pal, againat los leftlet preseuros tirougi tala

organisation, Ia.

Io sccouyidoh the follovina objectivas in the Kalated

Misaton Ilzestivas

Prsarity A. 358 8810r1ty Be 3a, B, Eo

Go Beckyrou.

1. The IISS ma foundod la 1953 undor the suspicco of a prosy oe

Minicon benkors, Iniertalista, and veschante to eproad the principléo of

tres enteraice ans privato inietatina.

since its roundiug. the from las

arrangad a nuber of tortings ant ecapraces designni to axylore the

dangors of Connie, particularly in 140 econale aspecto, and bypor

no:200s1159, 18 bas orasnised toe sthient grong hand it bas publiaied bossa.

permaloão, anó mas latter on Cosminisa do tall no the dengara al ecstasdo

socialiens it has cuagaù in considerublo prosa pianesent oa varior.

mattors involving private incitaro und tha bosmmot thouati eni 1t bre

cecalsted a file of baoie data ca eveuto and individuali revolvini adore

Conies that Dald bo isffieulE fur uny privt, Kexiesa Eroup to

dupltease®

2. In June 1SEP, LIMTY-1 Moltod the Fabasoy's Political Counseles

and roquented en Inbacy contast vich Luli? 2's cunization Luhsequasily.

tho Annasonice astra tho 601 to emploro the pocalbility of civias &irunciaà

baly to the erump bandal ty Linry?. In aid-August 3902 (182 2530 KE),

OLIVer G. GALBIO edvisod the Bordeo intion that she Ertay had bees

recatrina percial finiial ald fron a trono or U. " businesa separitions

policited ky i. Ennry Holland, non coccarod, and thet Erospuartere bad

aleo proilded eone finnuclad arsistano throush thie charned. Arter W

death of l. Bollani, 1t sas recommuird teat the tudino la basiled

ipocleically, this me lo lolo pay for tha

publication 1267ajo," an cocacale jowal which atrongly suyports tas $e9

enterarine systas.

The Anbassadar noi consulted and be replled thet he

chonght antir'2 uua an of the for eccanisto in foxtoo fluiting commie.

ESCIES/KAPOX

d'arten

---

## Page 78

14-00000

"Sel

Fan Antanador also unid that everything poanible should lo done to support

"TepaJo" (BNT-J003 KIAT ISES, 30 Aunt 1962).

3. A prajeet ma makeitted by the stasion on 8a Narol 1963 (1064-20932)

but tendquarters on 12 July 185: (DIB-33501) lasteated the profect had been

disproved no suboittod and that lostred the itation funiing should eupport

the staient activity lano on a spot analecanco baste. Jule vas cono vita

the U. 9, Buelness aseoctates el LIkEY-l's pietias up tho ooat of the

"Espajo" meestes, some $1,240 per soctl.

Too station'e asaletance cince

thas tin hee boen confined to the paymont of LIntY-l's salary l50 per

month) and the pajmas of 1500 por month to sno, a stetion, borer,

retains ssorsa to the 111l runge of the LIlIVE nochanian end poteatial.

sno, tho militant student canisation, le ortremly notive is the

pollsteal uction field, in the martacos as vell do in the sanital. the

IIst organisation has 140 ortioos In Kodoo City, vita assocsorod Cflor 1n

Salvedoz and Cuntoala and vortirs contacto in the provinces di harico sad

Is several cogital altlos of latin Amarioa.

So unive dorotos ito efforta to sollins ta tres enterpriso syrton so

an conade may of life and la dorenates at every ture lodivious. liberty os

In Manico this typo is organieation la rother unique, es the trand

In Mazleo la tosard nore covensors tutoreatio. The Dit also prepares

and condo out to movinatel ampagare editorial fonturing euts-conemiat.

In thn lure five sorre the IDE has collected soninty 10010-2942

binduro filled vita esstorial clipo suchourt in the IIss actico, lo

ergiaton also spectors a training cours at which interastol trumo of

15 to 20 persone are intoctrtrasade

6o LITe, tha Director of tho Irit. tan aborn completo dedication to

the progra

The nibore of sis orynation, espostally the etudente, trave

Censtrated curge and cometone sa a variaty of operations.

Do Operational A50068.

do WNT-1 10 a 1 ye0-01d Aerior Lunisonman vas sete as a

eit-out and aparational advicer to LIAr?-E, to Dirsctor of the group.

LIND? -1 SOFIAS IOr CIA 10 Penana fun AprIl 1947 until April 1949 uben be

roturnod to ador.

Es see in cortast soclally sita mentore of the derico

Etution ant In koranbar 1902 sos hired for Eas abore suit.

tralning was

acresired sinco late-l sas boes la lutollease vort fisa bla surica

vith l. so nilstery Intollyno during will.

Ho was chingod to tart for

U. B. willtery Intelligence in Arios will late 195ce ke anor he 1a

---

## Page 79

1d-0d0d

i....

2. LINWY 2 10

Io 16 slao s vell-

know

in Mraico end

¿thes lotta Anarionn countrios.

He 18 not by LTaur?-1.

dTHuF?-2 probably

Bumpeote that sunde way come to hin fron the U. E. Goverment, borever,

sover need in that the mmy 1s tron private businesa groupe. le me grunte

en dA on 25 October 1962.

& Machard sas.

• Too principal officero of the ISS eroup sre latad In Aypanil

• Durime carly 19dh laro cronized a strong and large chaptar of st

crennisation at the Unversity of Vora Crus, Jalapa. Tale Univeralty has

son 23,000 students and a alzabia oomnist intiltration 10 1t8 student

Talo intes fom univorsitios now in which MURO bos chaptero:

Univaroldad Nacional Antonous de Mextoo (UIN4), Unlveraity of Purble,

University of Gundalajara, and the Univeralty

of Vera Cras. Three of thene,

vith tha exception of lundalafira, ure noted centers of communiot activities.

Thn ITs organtzation frequently end regularly sates prose

placarente lo all of larico City's loadiog novspapera.

Ita oditorial

features are ales regularly necopted by proviacial publications. Conarl

propaganin ant political action of the amulation will be influanced

and guided by the Station.

Ta ITs editorial sarutoe for provinetal nevopagars has

baon unad by the station.

thn Diss's Interantional consoctions, especsally tha

socociated ciricer in calvador un Castesals, vill la exploited.

Ton fention will contime to call on tha ZIl to 1111.

roccarah naeda.

•. Lessples of publication and propagands satorial aro.

attacbedo

B. Security Evaluation

To DIE organitation 10 fured through a cut-out in such a mur

that CIA participatton la concooled.

It is not connected in any way wit

any otbir CIA operation.

Thare have been no security problems which heve

eona to the attension of the station in comertion vith tuis activity.

Both WHUP? -1 and LUFUrY 2 have been, to the itation's knouledge, quite

discreot about their rolatlonship.

In ver of the nature of the Ills, ther

hna bemn no curlosity about the source of funds contributed by the station.

-3-

БЕСЛЕТ/КАРОК

---

## Page 80

109760

Y- Coondimation.

Ald cardinatios vita other U. t. eleneuta will be handled by tha

cos tentoo as quel situationo criso.

Fos the present thare are nome.

The

forme Ambannodon ie. Thanso kan noted the cos laxico to ansist the lIst

Fron fimasially.

Alo, the operaisound uns of bifiif-1 ens clasud vita

U. I. miller intelliga ton it wn learnad that thay also bad an

Intoret in ming kin In cloniastin operations. Thay ar tot using bla

at the present tler.

19Lat1enab3) 20 0t295 159J00t3

A. LICCAIE

DOA DIOCEtS LICCAX und IRIRO ATO OpErAtINE &E LiNE, &

Untversity of unarde of B0,100 stuceati. So far thare baro beon no baste

problena of eratised aince luno 1a vortina tha Catholle aids of the streot

VAllO LICOA mortu da the so-called "independente," and tbero 1o st1ll

Dinsty of roon for both do operato. In thia cornoction, 18 sould in notod

tha a crost dans of MURo student affort lo devotad to universitlos outsito

Hardco City®

mls projece to eroem'd vith e soss propagando

approneh to Cermien la lexico, It 10 botded by a eroup of bainesenen

Inor es the Condires of Bina.

Tos only rolationchip batraen alato arà

LIGINE da In tho fact Chat four of tho nonbore of the Comittoo of Mec

aSO 11B0 mentery Of LDAWP y Sicon "Board el Directora," Thia Coda 1299

menosaurly basn en interlockins artetorato Datmon the te projecto ture,

no in sono pialler setirition in tha U. E, Iniividualo Inserostod 1a

carlo en outaito sosivillos os thia usture sn Preguantly.trrpod to surro

la mitiple acetamente.

ITLISE/Cs

TINO LITEP/C 1o n fations, Etniast unanalsatsos

strossing

1. 1110P/C sro vorting 1n tho lana gererel rield in unireraition ousolie

Manieo CIty.

Lonovar, in these unirosalties in wilch LInf? so comentratiag

sto orrorto, piso com be a craglerentary relationatio cause Libi cos

work la nuch un dete in cheze univoraitico than con LItric and ca

aniliato 15s crugo to thu LI1s2/C Cational Student Consoceration Mich

do tho only one nou camerally recognired in lesico, LIllirti, do a Betiruas

fendent contederation, orrionly con only spand vary linited eine on any

single uniraity or esantion.

G. 1o Coetsa

It so regasatod that the folloules artinaton lo spprovad tor uno le tbe

LUPe project for the persod l Junry l9ts through 30 Juna 1565.

F705

$, 6,000

42.600

"Benejo"

M30 stadent Organfration

22,000

8, 000

5,000

• .

tediera s,

---

## Page 81

14-00000

Btatia lindoo proposes to Day cal a portion of the lINs operation. It le

not intended that thie partial saypore vill este the organization e completali

controlled statio anset. It vill mb 1t responsive 8o mation endance.

The espontention redives funds iron private erouse but the station dnes not

non the mute of all the donns and 1t 10 unlaly that se vill our knoy

these exactly.

Thoro sao no special regulanes for forden outy.

3o Cornstants:

Ho pernacas connitaste heve born mado.

Ho Dudine end Accountabs L1ey.

Funte osll bo padd 8o LTMFT-1 by the snaldo enna oftluer, Boucinte

will be obtaina.

Tos moany w12l be paid is cash in local currency. Tere

aro no unsand fading and aprontability roquermanto.

It sa not Jolieved that the unny In required for the Later Project.

Ro Carassleat10s0

Tero are no commention roguerto for to prati that.

Pore ers no techalcal sapor regurate for this profast.

Bans are to sislotlos regatremats for thie project.

Operatsonel Intolligmeo fres other U. 5. Agansion i6 not roguired.

Intollienaco production trua thio dovelopental projart has included tine FI

reporta dartas liô, asica sros a fona dal of report matarlad vilet, thougis

not disasible, la or conaldtrablo intumest to tha station.

;

---

## Page 82

SECRET

KAPCK

Staos the Diractor of the croup 18 a Merican nations, ho coald continuo

Living and voting is tacleo lo the ewnt of enray satid. S. Sitartlons,

borover, he pro ibly would not octright sttack his om governent It 1s

Libaly that the grop locally night lone its effaotivense or cessa to

fundion 18 Menico.

never, & change so the torten polltical scene my

sos affoct the emp's offlose lu other latin Americon courties. In thi

ment of an enrency sitution, contact can ba undo by the care offsee

with other LItEr -1 or LIT..

EISCTEST/KAPOS

---

## Page 83

APPENDIX E

Principad Ostierre of the TIES!

Directors

had. Agustin thio V.

ItO. CEPLOS BANCIES MEJORADA

Le. Gustavo F. VRIASCO

Jag. Joas RIVERA 8.

LE, FedrO ASTE fala

Aalbal do ITUEIDE

Ing. J00g de la ANCORRA

Jacoto fires BarresO

1c Ario to 1 Unquie

he carlos his i her

QuILIerSo GUAADO Davis

80ae A, RECANA

Llo. Barardo POLTo Love

Toms de COMMEA

11o. Antonio FArE Verdis 78.

Adalto to HIVARAL

Poterice SARIEt Yogarty

ClemaDe SERIA Partines

Tella DIle Gara

Baron Aind Adie

---

## Page 84

i:".

A. Identification.

Mexico City, Mexico -- Political Action. See C. below fur other

countries which may become tavolved.

B. Objectives.

§Tendent morone

To support and sustain a long-established, proved, anti-Communist

frout organization in Mexico. To encourage the expansion of the group's

present efforta in provincial lexico, and, to some extent, in other

countries. To obtain a measure of significant control over the

organisation through this continued funding. To guide the group in

increasingly more afficient methoda of fighung Communion: and fostering

pro western programe, such as the Alliance for Progress. To

accomplish the following objocuvea in the Related Mission Directive:

Priority A. 2 ErSeas, 1, Di Prlority B. B 2, be C.

C. Background.

ide 11SE

KHUFF (identity Af was founded in 1953 under the auspices of a

group of Mexican bankers, industrialials, and merchants to spread the

principles of fres enterprise and private initiative. Since its founding,

the group has arranged a number of meetings and congresses designed

Thos

So explore the dangere oi Communiem (partcularly in ita econonile

ong

áapecte and hyper-nationaliam, It has also financed the publication of

panaphiete, bulleting an econonic matters, and books. /I'he director of

thie group (LIHUFF -2) received support from LIHUFF -1 and the busineas

firm which LIHUFF-1 headed in Mexico until 3l December 1962 when this

company decidad to give up sis franchise in Mexico.

In June 1960 LIHUFF-1 visited the ODAeM Folitical Counselor and

requested an ObACID contact with LIHUFF-?'s organization. Subsequently,

du Guls EleGODACID Mexico, asked the COS. KUBARK Mesica, to explore the

possibulity of giving financial help to the group headed by LIHUFF-2." In

mid-August 1962 (HMMS-2530 RYBAT), Oliver G. GALBOND advised the

Mexico Station that the group had beeu receiving partial Inancial aic

¡ror & group of PBPRIME busess corporations (policited by Mr. Henry

Holland, now deccased) and that KUBAAK Headquartera bad also provided

some financial assistance through this channel. After the death of

SECRET/KAPOK

---

## Page 85

14-00000

I ran tope" apter.

I Thee the

starty

SECRET/KAPOK

Mr. Holland, it was recommended that the funding be handled through

¡the Mexico Station. Spocifically. this was to help pay for te publication

thought LIHUFF? was one of the few economiste in Mexico Lighting

Communim. The ODACID Chier also said that everything possible

ahould be done to support the LIHUFF publication (HMMT-3023 RYBAT

1925, 30 Auguet 1962). z2

' I 3 The Lilies organisation has ita offices in Mexico City, with

associated offices in Salvador and Guatemala, and working contacta in

the provinces of Mexico and in several capital cities bi Latin America.

LIHUFF devotes its efforts to selling the free enterprise system as

an economic way of life and in defending at overy turn individual liberty

or freedom. In Mexico thia typo of organization is rather unique, as the

trend in Mexico is towards more government intervention.

-."—

LIHUFF malatains an excellent library of source materials on

MIHUFF publishes regularly a considerable amount of materials.

Including the monthly publication (Identity B). See Enclosure 5 for

samples of LIHUFF publications.

The group is extremely active in the atudent field, in the provinces

political setion.

L2u5r also prepares and dendo oui to provincial newspapera

editoriale fosturin; anti-Communist themes. In the last four years

LIHUFF has collected ES loone-leal binders filled with editorial clipe

authored in the LIHUFF office. LIHUFF also spousors a training course

at which interested groups (of 15 to 20 persons) are indoctrinated.

LHUFF-2, Director of LIHUFF, bag showa completed dedication

to his program.

The merbers of Lilitar; especially the studente.

have demonstrated courage and competence in a variety of operations.

D. Operational Assete.

1. Personnel.

american

LIHUFF-l is a 41 year old PEPRiVe, businessman who acta ao a

SECRET/KAPOK

se)=a) 42

---

## Page 86

14-00000

SECRET/KAPOK

cut-out and operational advisor, to LIHUFE-2, the Director of the group.

LIHUFF-1 worked for KUBA&& In Paname from 1947 until April 1949

when he returned to Moxico. He was la contact socially with nembers

of the Mexico Station and in November l9o2 was hired for the above

work. Blographlead dala labeing forwarded via reparate-diopatch. -He-

in contacted by WillardC, CURIIS or WichaoTC. CHOADEN. Iralning

tw779

18 not required since LIHUFF-! has been an intelligence work from his

service with PBFRIME military intelligence duriag WWIl. He was

engaged to wors for PAPÍUME military intelligenco in Mexico until

recently. He knows that he is working for KUBARS. HMMW -1040 of

25 October 19u2 granted OA for LIHUFF -d.

LIHUFF-2 lo a 4l year old

He is also a well known

other Latin American countries. He is met by llhuff HufF.

probably auspects that fuade may come to him from ODferE, however.

cover used is that the money in from private business groups. He was

granted an OA on 26 October 1762 (HMMW-11039 of 9 Noveuiber 1962).

2. Mochaniema.

115E

O a. The principal officero of the Itamáry A group are listed in

Appendix I Toeparate cover enclosure No. JI Olher detaile of the

orginisation are included in C. Backgroand above.

INSE

(p) The LIHURT organization frequently and regularly makes

prese placementa in all of Mexico City'o loading newspapera. Its

editorial features are also regularly accepted by provincial publications.

Radio and television placement is on an irregular basis.

• Lis

1) General progaganda and political actions of LIHUFF

will be influenced and guidedby the Station for its baselita

(2) LIHUFF student operations have already boen

wailized (ofton la coopdiation with other Station student assera).

'(3) The LIHUFF editorial service for provincial newa-

papers has been used by the Station.

(1) The press-placement capabilities of LIHUFF in

capital city newspapers, which is considerable, has been used. This

will be taken advantage of by the Station for KUBARK purposes.

3(5) LIHUFF's international connections, especially bio

associated offices in Salvador and Guatemala, will be exploited.

.. SECRET/KAPOK

:

zinfinis

---

## Page 87

-(6) The Station wilt eatt on LIHUFF to fill recestch noods.

Socurity Evaluation.

The WHUFF organisation de funded through a cut-out in such a

manner that KUlAit participation le concealed. It is not consected in

any way with any other KUBARK operation had 62u.

F. Coordination.

All coordination with othor PBPRIME elements will be haadled by

COS Mexico as such situationa arise. For the present there are none.

In the pass, ODACIChtal Mexieo asked COS Mexico to assist the group

financlally. Also, the operational use of LIHUFF"I was cleared with ..

US PBSPIE military intelligenco when it was learned that they also had an

Interest in using him in clandestine operations.

They are not using hin

at the present time.

islide

hy is athis rupid?

61,0

&. Costs.

"*"I." It is requested that the following

estimates be approved for use

In the LIHUFF project for the period 1 May 1965 through 30 April 1964: 3= Ju

1865

FY 1963

FY 1707

TY1965

$

$ 5,000.

162e3

25or

LIHUFF -1 Salary

#tentity publication.

MUP.D feematy student organization

Total

000.

110400-

1, 800.

$5.000

3,000.

6570

$23,000.

Station Mexico proposes to pay only a portion of the LIHUFF operation.

It is not intended that this partial support will make LIHUFF & completely

controlled Station asset. It will make it responsive to Station guidance.

The organization receives funde from private groupe but the Station doas

not know the anounts or all the donors and it is unlikely that we will ene

know these exactly. The Station, however, will be alert for the future

possibility that the LIHUFF may begin to operate solely on Station funde.

Should this occur, steps will be taken to place the organisation under

complete, clasaic control.

2. Foreign Currensy.

There are no specal requirements for foreign currency.

SECRET/KAPOK

---

## Page 88

SECRET/KAPOK

3. Commitmente.

No permanet commitmente have been made.

4. Funding and Accountability.

-unde will be paid to LiHUFF-i by cote ato Re

Receipta wi

Do obtained. The money will be paid in cash la local currency. There

are no unusual funding and accountability requiremente.

H. Annexes.

1. Admiaietrative Plaa or Flecal Annex.

It do nos belleved that thie annex le reguired for the LIHUFT

Projoct.

2. Communicatione.

There are no communications requirementa for the present time.

3. Tochnical Support.

There are so technical support requirements for thie project.

1. Loglelice.

There ere no logiatical requirements for this project.

5. Intelligence.

Opentional intelligence from other PBPRIME agencies le not

required.

I. Emergency Conditions.

Since the Director of the group is a Mexican antonal, he could continue

ment. It la likely that the group locally might lose its effectivenesg or

coase to function in Mexico. However, a change in the Mexican political

-6-

SECRET FAPOK

1. 1 is

---

## Page 89

14-00009

SECRET/KAPOK

«cono may not affect the group'a officos in other Latin American countries.

In the event of an ar: ergency situation, contact can be made by loe C/0

GOF with either LIHUFF -1 Or LIHUFE -2.

NOTE: Her a nore on the production and some succossee

af the LIHUFF

organization, see Append Il (separate cover enclosure 4).

-7.

SECRET / KAPOK

an in inte

---

## Page 90

...

SECRET/KAPOK

The llles of the Mexico Slation have been checked for derogatory

aformation on the names above. There wao no deroratory informatios

= anyone of them except

made via LIHUFF-l to get him removed from the organisation.

19990 77 9055090

SECRET/KAPOK

---

## Page 91

14-00000

SECRET/kAPOK

EnClOsure 4 tO HMMA-

20731 (UNDER SEPARATE

COVER)

APPENDIX I

The Organisation and its Director have:

8. Furnished the Mexico City Station with index carde and

summary information on some three (3) thousand Mexican Communisto.

Although almont all of ther. Communists were already known to this

Station, the data confirms Station Information and, in some cases, adde

to Station knowledge.

Rection

face Wande. Organised a nationwide right-wing, anti-Communist and

active student organization in the nation's universities. It is called

Movimiento Universitaria Renovadora Orientaclón (MURO) publiehes

PUNO (Fist), a fighting anti-Communiet student paper and has organized

shock brigades ready and willing to take offenuive (street fighting)

action. MURO has been very active in the National University of

Mexico (UNAM); the University of Puebla and the University of

Michoacan. In the last two MURO can claim a large degree of the credit

for ousting Communis: rectore al these universities.

c. Kept Ite publication, ESPEJO, actively atzempting to counter

overwhelming odds and advantzges.held by pzo-Marxist econcmists and

their teachiags in Mexico, Chiel-OSACH believes the Director and the

organisation are most uselul in this regard.

d. Taught groups of studento pro-capitalist, pro-free enterprise

economics . a rare and much neoded service in Mexico where the

Communists have taken over the hold of economics in higher education.

e. Continuoualy published pro-"BPRIME, pro-free enterprise

and anti-Communist articles in Mexico City's leading newspapers and

in the provincial presa of Mexico.

1. Attempted to spread to other Latin American countries,

and to coordinate with appropriate organisations and individuals in

those countries rear let conamic theories at f Minises

A Some examples a production from this organization are:

1) НИMA-20947 of 14 March 1963; (2) HMMA»2030o of 3 December 1962;

(3) HMMT-3106 of 28 September 1962; (4) HMMA-19296 of 6 July 1962;

(5) HMMA-18685 of & March 1962; (6) HMMA-18678 of 6 March 1962.

SECRET/KAPOK

cared bis.

---

## Page 92

DISPATCH

Chief, WHD

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

xX

INFO

FROM

Chief of Station, Mexico City V

General - Operational

Specific - Present Status of LIHUFF

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

XX

PROCESSING ACTION

MARKED FOR INDEXINO

AM INSTEINE PEOUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED DESK

CAN JUDGE INDEXING

MICROFILA

REFERENCES:

a. HMMA-23708, dated 17 June 1964

b. HMMA-23855, dated 9 July 1964

1. At the time the LIHUFF activity 1s approved as a formal project,

it is the present intention to turn over the operation to

Oliver N. PRIMACK or Stewart R. PATAKER as the case officer. However,

for obvious reasons, it is not desired to make the introduction of one of

these individuals to LIHUFF/1 until such time as an

assurance of continuity

with Headquarters' approval of the activity as a formal project has been

2. In view of the time which has elasped since the exchanges

Indicated

in referenced dispatches have taken place, the Station would appreciate an

indication from Headquarters whether or not LIHUFF is being processed as a

project. If it is not or approval has been denied for one icason

another, the Station would

also appreciate knowing this so whatever action

has to be undertaken can be initiated.

Willard C. CURTIS

Distribution:

3

-WHD

2 - Files

Excurd los are -1:

declas: tilled

CS COPY

CROSS REFERENCE TO

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

HMMA -24682

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

50-124-28/1

DATE

3 Nov 64

HOS FILE NUMBER

50-124-28/1

SEE MIS

+5248

---

## Page 93

14-00000

"..

8 April 1963

HERORANDUM POR THE RECORD

SUBJBCT: Consents on Proposed Project LIHUFP

I recoumend this project proposal not be subaitted

for approval, for the following reasons:

We would

E. The LIHUFF organization has other sources of

funda and would conduct its activitics anyway without any

support or uld fron CIA or any other U. S. Governsent agency.

2S TO Re"A project to fund the organization is unnecessary.

b.

The Station indicates that it has achieved,

But no and can continue to achieve, results through the LIHUr?

contiat

sochanisn without making sizeable payaonte.

A project to

provide a subsidy is therefore unnecessary.

c. Severa tembers of the LIHUFF organization are

also members of the LISIREN organization.

W's

propose

Eduardo PRIETO Lopez, recently discussed the LISIREN oper

ation with tbe DCI in the latter's Headquartors office and

This fact, taken with the similarity of the proposed funding

mechanise to that of LISIREN, the similarity of operationa

of the tro organizations, and other such parallels could

eventually

be expected to etrip LIlUFF of its cover and

crete a potential security probles.

d.

The activitles that this proposed project vould

aubsidize overlap the activities of several other operations

LIHUFF does not contribute enough beyond

this overlapping to be justified.

Its student progran coln-

..LICOAX.

Briefly,

Posse

---

## Page 94

(1) INHA-20905: LIllUrY obtained a copy

of a book now out of print written by Victor Manuel

VILISENOR, whose viars vere of interest to the

TITOVA "BUER 30306: At the station"s request,

preparation of a reply to

booklet written by a Communist Party leader.

(3) HHHA-19296: LIHUFT/l returned fron&

trip to Venezuela with a copy of a plan for communiat

operations there.

(4) HMA-18685: LIBUFF has ties with CHES

1n Guateanla.

(3)

HHMA-18678: LInurf published and distributed

a commontary on a harrist book about Cuba.

(6) IUIT-3206: LIHUrT gave the Station a

and Marxiate.

(The

project outine points out that the Station alread

knew most of then.)

I further reconnend that the Station be asked to

confine tis activitles in this operation to those of only

nonentary inportance that can obtain results with little or

no expense. y

und

7e fludent ing bund

Gabe Love

L

---

## Page 95

14-00000

-:

CRYPTONYA LIHUFF

STATION MEXICO CITY

SECRET/KAPOK

PROJECT CY ILINE

FIELD CASE OFFICER _Ellard C. CUATIS

CHILE OS STATION Ward C. CURIS

Tho attached project la prescared for approval.

arciniste

in cata

SECRET/KAPOK

---

## Page 96

14-00000

• SECRET/KAPON

A. Isonell-atien

MaRCo CiST, MAICO - Palidea Actisa. S00 G. boloM Sor Osber

coantries vaies may become savolvid.

B. Objectiree:

To support dad eastia a isax-ortabliabed, proved, sall-cammusle:

front organision is Haaco.

To ancosraga ise expansion dá les group"e

PrOsES alla-is lI prOMacLi MArco, ARd, to sono criest, is olor

organsalon carongi shis contad funding, to gulde la groap 1a

accomplia lie following objecsivas la lan Balalod Mioslos Directive:

Peterisy A, 2. ao S, do Go le Si Palorily B, do B, D, do

c. Backgugud.

LIHUFT Aúntity Al was foundod is 1753 sador the suspices el a

Eroup of Medcan bachors, LdioliDE, naI inerchaate i aproud the

principlos of fado entorprise and prirals initialira. alb=s 1re Isundag.

to ampiere to dangers el Cenmusian (particularly is lue scamorado

ESpeciA) Rid bypeS-aALionian. It haO rAN LizAnced Los publiostion sa

parophiato, hollotice da esecense raisors, asd babad. The caractes al

urm walah IlluTTo hooded i Mazes unti, 31 Docorner 1966 wer thie

company decided do give up lis iranchise is líerica.

In JURe 1F50 LANETT→ ViBid iO ODACID Pollical Coundaler nud

sequeciod is ODACID contact wich LIHUTIla erganisalias. Babooquazay,

CHEODACIO MEXiCAneKed thE COS, KUSARK MORIES, LO explOre ta

poodlility as siring liaancin belp so too group headed by Lihuat I

maid-Anges: 1901 (H4415-2530 HYBAT), OliVOrG. CALDOND advised ts

Masco Brallen that she grous had bron seroirtag partial fionacia aid

from a ErOip & PSPRIME basicane corporALens (melloisod by 14s. ilery

Holland, nor ¿aceased) sed la: KUBAR! Mesdquartaro bad aldo provio

some floRacia antionce chrough this charrel. Altes the death of

SECRET/KAYOK

---

## Page 97

SECRET/KAPOK

Mr. Mollaad, de mas recommonded thas ine lun diag be banilod through

the Menco Station.

specifically, this was to heig pay for the publicallos

(Idastity B). Iba local ODACID Chlel das consulled. He ropilos cher se

though: LIHUET-& Vao ona of the lew economia:o la Alesico fighting

Comaaalom. The ODACID Chiel siso said that ovorythuse possiblo

should ba doze to suppori tho IiHUFF publication (HMMST-3083 BYBAT

1926, 30 Angue: 1962).

The WIHUTY organisation bns li6 officos un Mesco Cisy, wich

sacochalod officos la Saivador aad Gualoniala, and voring costacta in

Ra provInces a Monico and La saveral Capial cilios dd Latia Amarico.

LIHUFT dovotoo do elforto to pellite tho free enterprise ayoter en

an economie way of life and in delendlag ai every tura individual liborty

or frendor. In Marico Lia typo of orgaslantion in ralhor aníguo, no o

tread la Maxleo lo tomarda more government interrantion.

MINUFT melisalas an excolient library el sourco materialo os

ocoremico and free antarprisa, much sa opon lo interesled researchera.

LiHUFT valiabso rogularly a considerable arount dí retoria.

Lacluding tho montaly pablicanoa (identity B). Sae Enciosure 5 for

samples e LIHUTT publicationo.

The group de estromely activa la the arudon: field, la lo proviacea

as well an in the capital. It supparto siudeni pubiicatione; nos erganioed

e. na sonal studsas gronp (Identily C)i and engagos la milliani crudoat

politica action.

LIHUTE 11o0 preparos and seado out lo proviaclal sovorsporo

edicoriale leaturing natl-Cemmunis! theraes.

Is the las lous jeare

LINUET has collociod 65 boose-lead biadore fuled mith castoria clips

authored to tho LINUFF clico. ITHUFE also aponasro e trailag couree

as malch LaseroDiod groups (o 15 to 20 perasas) aro isdocriassod.

LIHUTT-L, DIrecIor d LIHUFT, has ebows comploted dedication

lo bis program, Tho members el minUft, aspectally dio acusato.

have demenetratad courage and compolonce in a variosy of operaciono.

D. Operational Lacete.

1. Perseesa.

LIMUTE -I LO a 47 year Old PBPRIME buelnesman cho acta ao a

БЕСВЕІ/КАРОК

---

## Page 98

SECRET/RAPON

ea0de nad operational adriser do ilHLFE-1, te Director of lo group.

AIUTI WOrkA1 IOr KUBARK In PArIa from 4T uniliI pru 1949

anta ha roturnod to Morico. He vas io contace doclally sith mombaro

of the Monico Stallos and la Novembor 190d was Hired for te above

merk. Blographical dat le baina formared dis separata dispasch. Ho

l0 COntICId by WILAIdC. CURI or ALchad C. CHOADEN. Tratag

1o sot roguired Bluce LIHUFT-1 bao boes in laisiliganco work from bis

CerVicO vI PAPUME milisary Incellidanco duriag WWIl. Ho was

engaged to vori lor PBPRIME miliaTy inielligence in Morico watil

SOCOntlY. Ho kRONO laI he lE WOrs; for KUBARS. HMMW-L010 ed

25 October 1901 granted OA for LINUFT -1.

IIHUFY-1 18 a 40 Year edd

Ho is also a voll kaoni

In Menico and

ethos Lada Ameriora countrios.

probably sunpocts fia: fundo may como lo hin fron ODYOKE; hovever.

cover dood lo thsi lue crono, le fram private business groupe. He vas

granted un h an 11 October d9oz (HWZ1N- 11088 al 9 November 1968)..

2, Mochasieme.

=. The prinespad oficare al the Identity A group aro lated An

AppesAs 1 (separato corer anclocuro No. 1). Ochar sotada di che

organiation aro laciudod la C. Bresciouad abore.

D. The LINUTE orgaairation trequantly and regularly esader -

prata placemeato da all el Mosico City'e loadia, newapapero. Is

editorial losticos are ales regiarly acceptod by provinelad publicastono.

Radio and caloricion placoment le co sa irrogulor basto.

(Di Crenarel propapaaa and polisicas acsono el LIHUFI

Will ba luancod and guidodb ts staten for lis beselli.

(2) LAHUTE orudent operalions baro adrandy boes

uSlised (alion la cenedlastlen vita ossar Statten erudent ascera).

(8) TRa LSHUTE eliserla servico sor provincial sowo

papera has boen used by the Stauda.

(4) The pross-placenen capablio e LIHUFF da

capital city nerepapern, which la cossiderablo, har boun nood. Thie

m11ì bo taken advantago el by the fusion lor KUBANI purpeces.

(1) LIHUFT' intorndona! consocilens, especially his

sebastated ellena la dalvados und Cullemala, will bo emploisod.

BICRET/KAPOK

---

## Page 99

td-innod

SICREI/KAPOK

(6) The BtAtOn Wli CAll O LIHUFT tO Al roscareS neodo.

F. Beeurity Ivalsados.

TDo LIHUTY orgasisation is funded Chrough a cas-oat la such a

IBANOS LAS KUBARK participalion 1o concoalcd. It la nos consectod la

aRy Way tità any OLDOr KUBARÀ Operazioa.

F. Soordiaados.

All eoordnation with other PBPIME eloments will bo handled by

COS Mesdeo aa such sicuadons arioe.

for the prosant thore uro pose.

La tho paot, ODACLD ChiEÍ MeXCO aUNod COS MorCO tO addlet ME grOap

finzaclally. Aloo, lho oporational uis dl IHUFF -l vas cloared

PEFMUMX milltary Inrolligence whas il was loarned that they also had sa

Intorees la uaing bim la clandostine oporations. Thoy ore aot salng bim

sl tho groccar tieso.

G. Cocta.

lo It la poquostod chas the follovias estimalos bo approved for aso

en ths IIHUST projoct for to perod 1 Iay 1763 tIcugh 30 April 1904.

FY 1863

EY 196€

LKUTE • Salary

Idendity pablication

Idesiity otsdon organisation

Tornl

$ 1.000.

$ 5.000.

2.400.

12,000.

1. 600.

8.600.

$5,000.

$25.000€

Stallen Masdeo propopos to pay only a portioa ol lo LIHUrF operatioa

18 ho not inlendad thas shis partial aupport will raxo LHIUTS s completaly

eonroled stsllos aduat. li mill maso il responeive to Gendon gusdaaco.

Tio orgasirados rocalvos lunda fron, privaie groupe bur ths Sratioa doas

aos hncr the arconnie or all tha dosora and ll in snlicoly chat wo will

MBos ticeo arsely, Tho Siadon, Lovevar, will De alort lor to fsluro

posslalliy thas the LHUTT may bogla to oporate sojaly on stalion íuado.

Bhould thla occur, etepa vlll bo tahes lo piaco lse os ganiailsa sndor

camploso, classic control.

FOFBIRE CHrTORSY•

Thoro are no apochl reguremente for foreiga curreney.

&KCRET/KAPOR

. :

---

## Page 100

14-00000

:

SECRET/KAROK

S. Commitmonse.

No permanens commismento bivo boca ma do.

8. Fondlas and Ascountablusy.

Fundo will bo pale to LIHUTE-: by CCS Madco. Rocolpto will

Do salad The tag a louds in resia linal curreacy: There

d. Adrontossatiro Plan or Flacal Anuax.

18 do nos believod shas this acaor do required for the LIHUET

Project

3. Gomzasalcallongs

There are so communicalloca reguls enorto dor due prodone limo.

3. Ischaical Suppart.

Thore era Ro lochoicE, BupporE roguirementa for Rio project.

A. Losteles.

There are no legincel regulromesto dor lado projeci.

B. Intelligeses:

Opassional totalligence frem aer PAPRiME agencios lo sol

8096188

1. EngEncy Condias.

Enco the Diractor of tho group da a Merican national, he could candlare

Alving and vertlag is laxico la le evant ef omergeacy sud-ODTOKE

elational howavor, ho probably mould sor outright attack lie ora govera

conso to fanctlas la Modeo. Hoverer, a chango la the Med can political

...,.

Han in

-siderin

---

## Page 101

14-00000

'ai.

SECRET/KAPON

asase may not dilecs the greap'o aílices la oshar Lalla Amarlena conneriai,

In the eveat el on emergency situalios, contaci can be made by the

COS ElE AlChOr LINUTE -I AT LIHUFF-8.

NOKI: FOR A SOLe as io production and some successes al the LaHUTE

AgINatEs, BOO Appead li (asparazo cover enclosuro *).

ВЕСЛЕТ /КАРОК

?...

---

## Page 102

ВЕСЛЕТ/КАРОК

ENClOGUrO 1 1O HUILLA-

20911 (UNDER SEPARATE

COVER)

APPENDIX 1

Identitlee

Al Instinto do Investigaciono Socialco y Icononlead, A.C.

E. ESPEJO, da cronomica joursal shicù atrangly sapporto tho

arce raterpriod dy biois

с. М. В. R.0.

Do

Friscipa: Olaicera al l abovo:

DiTOStOSI LaSO. AELItO HAVARRO V.

Le, CArlOs SANCHEZ MEJORADA

ENRIQUE ONTHONY

HAGO LAINAS

LA GuItaro E VELASCO

ING. J00S AIVESA E.

Anilal do ITURNIDE

Martess 3. SUAREZ

Lag. Jose de la MACORIA

Jacobo FERET 30rI00

Lalo, A/8U0 BUENO Y Urgudi

LAB. GENES LOFEL LO LIENTE

CulerEs CUAJARDO Duris

JOSE A, ESCANDON

libe, Edsardo PRIETO Lopes

Atario I. RODRICUEL

Temas C. COARASA

Lo ARtesiO PEREZ Verda J%.

Fedorico BANCHEZ Fogarty

CayetIso BLANCO Vigil

Folla DIA: Garas

FArge AYALA Medina

ESCRET/RAPOR

---

## Page 103

1d-0n0d

SECRET/KAPOK

1ao fles el the Masten Station have boos chached for deregatory

¡normale ca la samos above. Thero use so deroratory information

as anyone i: tom encept

Eliorse oul be

.. 1360 Via LINUTE! to got him removed trom the or gaalentea.

BECRET/KAPOK

---

## Page 104

14-00000

GICHES/KAPOK

209N (UNDER SEPARATE

COVER)

APPENDIX IL

Tho Organsales and 10 Director havo.

An Farnichod tho Marco Cly Stalon mus inder cardo sud

puny tafor mation on soma lares (3) thourand Mesicas Communists.

Altamgh almost all el these Communiota vero alrsady broma to tale

Sistias, the dass confirmo Statien information and, la soms casso, adde

to statina knowlodge.

* Orgariod a sortenmide sighiwing, sadl-Communies and

activa sindhat espantastion in las antion's universition. ll la carded

Escrimsonto Univarascarla Resovadora Criolación (MURC) pabllabse

PUNO (Fles), a lightng ast Commanet arudeas papor iod lse ergraisod

mooch brigados ready and milllag to sale clieneive (etroes fighting)

tRA MURO Bad bosa vory activo in the National University el

Mexico (UDAl), tho Univereity of Prabli and the Univerely s

bLacA, In tSe las tO MURO ens claim a large dogrea el the crodie

lor cassisg Cosmunlut rectors as those univoraldos.

C. Kept its poblleston, ESPEJO, Belively amampung to coatar

ovarope raing odda and advasiages hail by pro-sarric acoacmists and

Encir Sesamage in bluaico. Chies ODACID bellevas the Director and the

orgalsion are mett social ta tile rozart.

do Tenghi groupe of cindanta pro-capilallas, pro-fres eterpaleo

00020148 • stare sad unch sooded sorvice ta lionico there the

Cummatera hare tanen over the flaid of economica in bighor odsectio

sal ast1-Comsnim arteles in Mazico City'a leading sawapapera s

1, Attoryted to spread lo other Latin Amarican countries •

sad to coordinero mita appropriato organinationo and todividisalo le

tsace contries, anti-laruis economie thoortes.

I. Some renaples of producien from thie erganimation are.

(0) 182114A-20947 01 11 MATCH 19531 (2) MMDÍA-LOS0Ó al I December 1868i

) HALet-Hes oL 28 Baptamba: 19621 (4) HASMA -19276 08 0 181y 19021

(5) HMM4-18685 01 9 MArCh 1902; (6) HMMA-LAOT8 0S 6 MICHIS

---

## Page 105

14-00000

CLASSES TO FRE NO -

I-HEY TO FiE NO

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

3 4/ SECRET

TO

• DIRECTOR

FROM • MEXICO CITY

ACTIONI WH8

INFO VR

R

'SECRET 122326Z

EDIR CITE MEXI 99220

PREF HMMW 12639

Y

HMMA 23708

3. DATED 17 JUNE REPLIES:

SECRET

ROUTING

RID /AN

RID/2=:

INITIAL

?=:16.2

jaco

P-Ed 1 389

0C18+CEN]

MR COPY

W0H/1

DESTROY

53-12478

CRET

RI

COPY

---

## Page 106

14-00000

TO

DISPATCH

CLASSUFICATION

SECRET

Chief of Station, Mexico City

PROCESSING ACTION

MARKED FOU INDEXIS

NO INDEXING ROUTED

AAY QUALIFIED DE

ANi JUDGE INDENIS

ANCROFILA

FROM

SUBJECT

Chief, VB Division

SKUYOLE/Operational; LIHUFF Project Assessment

ACTION REQUIED - REFERENCES

ACTION REQUIRED: Submit into requested :

REF: HHT-12379, 2 March 1964

Headquarters has not yet recelved the Station's

assessment of the LIHUFF operation which in accordance

with the reference was expected here not later than

1 June 1964. Plerse advise when it may be expected and 11

there has been any progress on the printing of the book

1n Buenos Aires:

Chester D. DAINOLD

Distribution:

O&1 - COS, Mexico City

CROSS REFERENCE TO

-IRI

RID/AN

RID/MIS

213-20

OFFICER'S MANE

neit lita, faste, rs..

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

HNMT-12635

CLASSIFICATION

OFFICE

WH/3/Mexic

OFFICE SYMBOL

DATE

DATE

50-104-2831

1 June 1964

HOS FILE NUMBER

5012428/1

/EXT.

5940

---

## Page 107

¿SPATCH

ENTEIIFRATIGA

ANARNED FOR NUE 1116

• 179. 10 81 1€1

CAP ULE INDEEN

04108011914

C201. VI 2arta10s

LIVE 2202008

997:

3:2 00003

DID 83160

me lee?!

and the Heroe of

silhorined charion lo LIlI80-?

FY64 K+80

providod to go.

1 3)

?!:"

Station should cobere ellidly do the

1813 iT.

Malate did the trage for

notivities.

Siicula

BlaH 46 6042029

Jaid lla

she tend

in he mbirched in fuenos

Ailed,

*uls

reaper mill in cunsadered be Bradquarters

ON 40304TE COIC 061A.

Readouart ra

his

alliscated

saditIonsi 500.000 tu Pauger lilish-5 Jor FJ69

bringlog the 8e9a1

> 982096.

Tals additional

ailianne will have

docunented

be useo

3.

perillia

for fluent dest

156d, poor Fecoud90211028

Huntrud wit the

kiel

lion

Lacerish.

forwarded sith mor 20031 und sale the dogeet for

appidies.

DILVOT N. CANEO

Cletrihutios:

Oh;- COS,

Hestor City

POISPATCH SYPEEL ANG PRAIRES

82X4.14379

DATE

* Enris

1904

8F0

RET

KES/NOSIEO

50-125-26/1=2

CRGINA.0G

59.10

Distribution:

1 - RI

1 - Chrono

CAlt

C/AHO

st did in son in tea

J.ür KIng.

---

## Page 108

1d-0d0d

Mexico

-F2B_64

..:

MEXICO CITY

... 09:0.08

vis 9

Pa 2, vR

CLASSED MESSAGE

SSCRET

572 ests ho

1: 42

TST

4F8 61 26

48 2

50-126-25/1

BERTAGEN

POUTINE

32XII

IN=S

CITE DiR

99/60

KEFS: A. DIR 86033

NETT 7526 €

C.

BUEN 6239 $ 7

1. LILISP-Ä BEING ALENDED FOR ADDITIONAL 930,000 FOR FYG4.

%. BIATION AUTEOZIZATION FOR CHARGES TO LILISP-X FOR LIHUFT

AOTIVITIRS FOR BALANCS Y764 LIKITED TO FOLLONING:

B. LIEUTE SALARY .

$500 PER MONTH

B. SUPPORT FOR SELECTED

250

580

STUCEXT ACTIFTTIRS $500 PER MONTE

C. PUELICATION OF POOR

PIA JUTS B & C

$6000

3.

DISPATCH FOLLOWS ON FUTURE PROJECT LIFUFT WHICH NOS

SUITTED POG UPPETAL.

END OF LESSAGE

E/S COMONT: 6:u 37763

** :N 00823.

AMOS POLIOSO STA LINUFF IS HOT APPROVED PECUECT.

WK/ BL

(Phone)

C/WE/S

COORZINATAS

2ErIC19

GALLEY

(6885601 f13te dolera'r

Goongra iong 808

AUTHENTICATIOA

OFFICEA

SECRET

REPRODUCTION PY OIHER THAN-TRE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITED.

Copy Ha

---

## Page 109

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION

PROCESSING ACTION

SECRET

ALANKED POR INDEXING

TO

COS, Mexico.

ico CIty

INFO,

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED DESK

CAN JUDGE INDEXING

FROM

Chief, WH Division

SUBUFCT

KUYOLF/LIHUFF - Operational

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

AICROFILAR

REFS:

A.

B.

11780

HMMA 22250

with the discontinuance of the subsidy for the publication

of the KHUrT nagazipe al reported in Paragraph 3 of Reference B,

Headquarter's majorlobjection to this project has been satisfied.

However, we, feel compelled to point out to the Station that despite

disapproval of this subsidy in Reference A,

the Station

continued payment of it for an additional five months.

In the absence

of any interin reporting or other attempt to justify this continued

expenditure, the Station Chief exceeded his fiscal authority.

Although Headquarters is prepared to make a concession to the Station

with regard to other aspects of the project as stated later in this

we must advise you that the prolongation of the LIHUFF LIHUFF1

magazite subsidy for five months is viewed here with great seriousness

requested that Willard C. Curtis prepare a dispatch explaining

With regard to other facets of the project, we are willing

to continue for a time even though we are not fully

convinced that

the level of LIHUFF-l's compensation or the student activities

supported are justifiable.

Ta avoid an arbitrary termination of ithe

entire operation at this time, you are authorized to proceed for the

balance of Fiscal Year 1964 on the following basis:

A. To continue LIHUFF-L's compensation at $500 per month.

To support selected student activities through the

LIHUFF complex at a rate not to exceed $500 a month.

Distribution:

0 & 1 - COS, Mexico City

(contiqued)

CROSS REFERENCE TO

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUAGER

HMMW 12311

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

DATE

28 January 1964

HAS FILE NUAABER

50-124-28

---

## Page 110

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

GLASBIFICATION

SECRET

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

HOW 12311

Should you wish to support other specific projects through LIHUFF

such as

the publication of the book, these will be considered by

Headquarters on a case to case bagis.

3.

The above authorized expenditures are to be charged to

D&TO and under no circunstances are they to exceed

the amounts

specified.

In this connection, you are advised that Headquarters bas

allocated an adúitional $30,000 to the Station's D&TO funds for the

fiscal year 1964 bringing the total for FY64 to $82,500. It 15 not

likely that any further increase can be obtained.

The Station is also requested to submit to Headquarters,

not later than I June 1964, an up-dated assessment of the LIHUFF

operation.

If at that time the Station wishes to present a revised

project for fiscal year 1965, your recommendations should be fully

submitted In the reassessment.

If your recommendations are accepted,

then Headquarters will undertake to rewrite the project outline

forwarded with AMMA 20931 and submit the project

for approval.

OLIVER G. GALBOND

"ORM

60

53a

USE PREVIOUS EDITION.

CLAESIFICATION

SECRET

---

