# 104-10063-10218

## Page 1

1104-10063-10218]

5 NOw SAY

E1-61758

RISTIN, Bayard

1.

Noted negro cir. t rights leader.and seace worker. Born 17 March

2913 in Viest Chester lenn. He resides New York City.

2.: Subject admitte has had numerour contacts with CP members and CP

front groups palthoul there

Commense a no infoition to Indicate that he 18

now a'Conmunist of sympathizer. A cursary review of voluminous information

indicates that RUSTIN maintains contact with CP affiliated groups and

their members to further his own work in the civil rights movement and

peace crusades. Subject appears dedicated to his cause but is hampered

somewhat by irreadgnsibility and illittitt a homosexual problem.

3. Herds a member of the Ioung Camunist Leapie (1936-J9]), the American

Student Union (1939), and an active member of the War Festaters League.

In 195T Subject attended the 16th National Convention of the CPUSA as

a non-Comnist observer and represenative of the Var Feslaters League.

In July 1950 he stated that he was formerly a member of the CP but was

no longer so affiliated. Subject has also been a member of the National

Committee for Non-Violent Action. He mas Secretary fur to Martin Luther

KING from 1956 to 1960 and in 1962 he was Assistant Secretary for the

Sothern Christian Leadership Conference and Deputy Director_of the 1964

.63?

March on Washington.

1:2975,9978947.

L. In 1961 RUSTIN spoke at a meeting of the Monroe Defense Committee in

New York City" taking a more militant approach to the civil rights movement.

In this speack Subject stated that there was a breakdown in law enforcement

on all levels in the South and it was not only the right but the duty of

negros to furnish their own protection, by armed force if necessary and

to establish their own police forces. In April 1962, Subject debated

MAICOI X and stated that he was not in accord with the Muslims on their

teachings of hate and their desire to sep up a seperate state for themselvese

5. In 1958 Subject traveled to London, England to participate in a protest

against Britains manufactuer of nuclear weapons.

The london protest was

organized by an fffiliate ## organization of the Campaign for Nuclear Dis

armament, a communist front group.

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

7157

---

## Page 2

14-00000

6. In late 1952 Subject traveled to Ghana te erganisa a march to the Sahara

fesert to protest the Frenck testing of alf' hydrogen bomb. He was unsucsessful.

7. A report dated 5 May 1966 indicated that RUSTIN was a member of a group

sent to the Dominican Republic by Norman Thomas to look into the situation

in that coptry to determine if the potential ellamate 1s conducive to

free elections.

8 Subject has had contacts with the following noted CP members and sympathizers:

A report dated 23 April 1962 indicated that Subject was in contact with

willan Vor, leftist negro journalist and lecturer. Another report dated

29 November 1963 indicated that he was in contact with Benjamin J. DAVIS,

National Secretary of the CPUSA. DAVIS had previously stated that the CP

must concentrate on influencing the leaders balaudes and policie:

of the negro liberation movement. This same report also indicated that one

of RUSTINS co workers thought that Subject was "manipulated" by Thomas

KARN, a member of the Socialist Party.

9. Subjects arrest record includes a three year sentence in Ill for violation

of the Selective Service Act and arrests in 1946 and 1953 for all lewd

act and sex perversion. In 1940 Subject registered as a Conscientious

Objector but later became corvinced that he should resist ary form of

conscription, it which led to his I9ll conviction. The 1953 arrest

was publictzed by a Maryland newspaper in 196h to arouse public sentiment

against RUSTIN$

appearance at the University of Maryland to deliver a

lecture®

1. 201-275804*

2.

DBB 13602

DEA 59665

DBA

59665

DFB 1545

DBF 40568

DEB 46827

DBA

7422 (card record only)

DBB 13602

9.

DBA

59665

DBB

13602

5 Notember 67

UPS.

---

