104-10061-10053

ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES:
REF: DIR 39276, 1 February 1962

1 de stused in vetversse, attaches for pactege ta(TiCHiit/ase tre oepive
ef @ report en Antonio RODRIGUEZ Ehasebals the origins] ef this report was
given te (GOH/IY on 6 Pobruary 1962.

2. The last paragraph of attachment contains our request fer the resulte
of the debriefing of Sunfeat. honed

MORTDER F. BINGHAM

Attachment:
Report (2 es u.s.e.)

Distribution:
3 = Paria

2 - 8/3 v/att
1-RI w/att



14-00000

5 Feu. unary 1962

MEMORANDUM FOR : | aE!

SUBJECT : Report on Antonio RODRIGUEZ Echasabal

Antonio RODRIGUEZ Echasabal wae bora in Cuba on 17 August 1913.
He has a master's degree in agriculture, professedly has no religion but
ia a Mason, RODRIGUEZ is married to Edith JONES, who was born in
Cuba on 10 March 1917; she is, however, of Haitian erigia, being the
daughter of a former Haitian Ambassador to Belgium, aad she is a devout
Episcopelian. The couple is known to have three children: a son who was
last reported to be in Havana, Cuba; a daughter married to a man of
German birth who was employed in the Castro land-reform organization
until his departure for Germany in December 1961; aad a son, Antonio
RODRIGUEZ Jones, bora 24 August 1943 at Havana, who was studying at
the Ecole Francaise Internationale in Washington, D.C. ia 1961. This son
has been reported to be anti-U.5. and to have requested permission of his
father to go to Cuba or to another "socialist country to continue his
education. |

~Antoalo' RODRIGUEZ ‘Jones resided'in Washiagtoa, D.C. with Yvonne
JONES, his aunt.and sister of the wife of Antonio RODRIGUEZ Echasabal.
“Miss JONES was born 10 April 1910 at Antwerp, Belgium; she was unmarri:
and was @ secretary at the Pan Americas Health Organization. She became
a U.3. citisen in 1959. Since the Castro regime has come to power,
Miss JONES is said to have spoken quite opealy for Castro and against the
U.S. Government.

RODRIGUEZ lived is Haiti for about eighteen years prior to the
commencement of his diplomatic career, having been barred by the Batiots:
government from returning to Cuba. He became a Maitian citizen and was
the owner of a Port-au-Prince meat market called "Zl Oso Blanco". Wher
Castro assumed power in Cuba, RODRIGUEZ took over the Cuban Embassy
in Pert-au-Prince in January 1959 after the Batista-appointed officials had
fled te the Dorninican Republic. Soon thereaiter he was aamed Ambassado:
to Haiti.

Following his appointment to the diplomatic pest, RODRIGUEZ continu:
to maintaia contact with persons in opposition to President Duvalier of Hal:

vitizen of Cuba Tee SNOW LOSE

Wide Me Pecans eke


14-00000

In late July 1959, Haiti wae invaded by a omall grup of Cubans, seppos

as a prelude to an invasion of the neighboring Dominican Republic. The
incursion was successfully repelled by the Haitian Goverament, which
publicly charged RODRIGUEZ with complicity ia the raid. RODRIGUEZ ther
closed the Cuban Embassy and returned to Cuba after selling hie private
property in Haiti.

While RODRIGUEZ was still in Haiti, two attempts were made on his
life. He accused the Trujillo regime ia the Dominicans Republic aad,
indirectly, the Haitian Goverar.ent of complicity in those attacks.

In November 1959, RODRIGUEZ went to Guatemala as Cuban Ambassado
There, he appears to have associated freely with pro-Commuaist groups. J
March 1960, he was requested by the Guatemalan Geverament to leave the
country on the ground that he wae engaging in activities taimical to the best
interests of Guatemala.

In November 1960, RODRIGUEZ reported to Karachi, Pakistan, as Cubs
Ambassador. His wife accompanied him there aad served ag his chief
secretary. During the iaitial months of his tour there, his closest relation.
in the diplomatic colony were with officials of the Belgian Embassy,
presumably ae a result of the fact that-Belglum had represented Cuba when
there was oo Cuban representative in Karachi. During 1961, however, his
social contacts were almost exclusively with Soviet, satellite and Chinese
Commualst diplomatic personnel, 7

In late 1961, when RODRIGUEZ apparently had decided to defect, he
confided to an acquaintance in the diplomatic colony that he wae finished
“with politics and wanted to devote the rest of his life to agriculture. He ho;
at the time to go to the Dominican Republic or te another, unspecified Sout!
American nation. At the time of his departure from Karachi by alr for
Germany ia early 1962, RODRIGUEZ reportedly made oaly a very limited
statement at the airport regarding his defection.- The event apparently
received very little, if any, press notice in Pakistaa.

penne Insufficient information exists at present to permit a determiaation as ¢

OS the genulmeness. of RODRIGUEZ's disaffection with the Castro regime. Fo:
reasons which have aot as yet been fully reported, the Department of State
denied a visa to RODRIGUEZ, apparently after he had made the decision tc
resiga hie post in Pakistan. We understead, howevor, that, following his

Citizen or Cuda
vf ayeeed Qdar LO Pata. te Pe



14-00000

arrival in France in January 1962, he received permission frem Freach™
authorities to travel to and reside in Martinique. It appears that he left ~
France on 31 January 1962 en route to Martinique.

This service would appreciate having the results of aay debriefing of
RODRIGUEZ by| with particular reference to the reasons
for his. resignation and his plans for the future.

