# 104-10074-10095

## Page 1

104-10074-10095

Ace

OUTCOING

MESSA02

14.2

SIGNAL CENTERUJIGHLY

AC.

sido

Cid

OMF

D

.0

CASSINICATION

ESIAGE RAADILAG INDICATO

STAFF

D8TE-1816-04В

2623077

INFO:

EIT$

DERECTOR

c/ers/ Tas, e/oPS a

ANDRAGE ARFRAINCE PUNDIA

522053

DiStin av: 35:

NO IDEOL

SATURATO

PER

TC:

ILA ADDE

RYBAT MHSPIKE

c/isCo

REFS: A. DIRECTOR 531359#

kil

, ERER,

3

"» FILES.

Chiono.

¡CASTE SEC SUGGESTS

DISSEM TO C/DOD

B. DIRECTOR 507278÷%

LO FYI ONLY. IT HAS JUST COM TO OUR ATTENTION THAT DOMESTEC

CONTACT DIVISION EDEDE IN JANUARY 1574 INTERVIEWED STEPHEN VAN CLEAVE

PRESIDENT OF INTELLEGENCE SERVICES, LTD. A PRIVATE FIRI, ON NES

PREVIOUS TRIPS TO ARGENTINA. THE MEETING RESULTED FROM VAN CLENE'S

REPEATED REQUESTS TO MEET WITH ECD REPRESENTATIVES. VAN CLEAVE'S

INTERVIEU DESCRIBED MAINLY HIS ACTIVITIES IN ARGENTINA TO ORGANIZE A

SECURITY FORCE FOR COCA COLA• POUCHING STATION COPY OF REPORT.

2. DCD HAS BEEN BRIEFED ON POTENTIAL PROBLEMS FOR C

STATION INHERENT IN VAN CLEAVE AND COUNCIL FOR THE AMERICAS INVOLVE-

MENT WITH ARGENTINE FEDERAL POLICE ON MATTERS REINTED TO TORROAST

KIDNAPPINGS, AND IS MOVISING THEIR FIELD OFFICES TO AVORO CONTACT,

LITH VAN CLEAVE IN FUTURE.

B. FIOLE: 4-4-151 200-6-48413. EZ IMPDETor

• DATE:

ORIG: "

EXT:

FILEASI4GOEFCEN

z/RV

14079

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

24640

COONDNATING OPFICENS

25695

TCHYNOTE:

FEEDL=M OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIDITED

£2 -1÷927

---

## Page 2

14-00000

OUTCOM

ACH

OMF

CLASSIFICITION

SIGNAL CENTERUSEGNLY

cor

ACH

ТОД

0

MESSAGE MASSING INDICATE

MESSAGE

2

CONF:

UH COMMENT:

DATE TIME STONE

eSTH

iNFO:

FiLE

518053

IMDE

DISSEN 68:

G

AUTURNTO PER

O amis

*REPORTED TRIP TO WASHINGTON, I.C. AND MIANG BY VAND

CLEAVE AND TUO ARGENTINE POLICE CFFICERS.

**ADVISED THERE NO NOS TRACES ON VAN-CLEAVERNO WAD

STATED THAT HE WORKED FOR C-I.A. IN LATER AMERICA

UNDER COCACOLA COMPANY COVERGE AND THAT MOS HAD 19

INTENTION ANY USE OF VAN CLEAVE.

DOD/OSS: LILLIAN I• GRANT ETELECOGRDS

DC/OPS/ITG: BILL CANTRELL LIN DIAFTS

DATE:

ORIG:

CIT:

EXT:

C/V

ES FEBRUARY 74/2025. ARS.

LH/4/AR

1926

DELEASINS DEFIERA

HEAT-ON

03

C4404 C42

REPRODUCTION BY

CER TIN THE ISSUANG OFFICE IS PROMISITIO

25605

-. SPOST

---

