# 104-10144-10022

## Page 1

104-10144-10022

Comments on Book V

SSe Final report

Sanitized

Cy it

14

3

by Sue trader

cy *1

ANGE: 13

r.......0401

203s

(

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

'190

---

## Page 2

- TO

* .

FROM : DFM

SUBJECT:

Mr. MAKK

MILLER

14 венца МАТ 1978

DATE OF REQUEST

SUSPENSE DATE

NOTES

This is the Scott Breckinridge task force study which was prepared

last sina ionespopy on the church to tae kons he one to me

assassination.

now with a suggestion from the IG that we send

a copy to the SSCI and

HPSCI.

I don't believe we should send it because it is extremely critical

of the Church Committee report (see page 9 of the introduction for a

sample). The Committee has not asked for this paper.

Indeed I am not

ure they even know of t

Epstein recently.

vy concern is thather ief mention was made to Mike

report will fan the flames and

cause them to resurrect these old questions for a new look.

I certainly

don't mind letting them know when they do a poor job, but not when the

cost is another examination of the same questions.

I have explained my

point of view to Scott Breckinridge who said his concern was that we were

providing a report to the Assassinations Committee which was not being

provided to oversight committees, but the this was a question for OLC.

He says he doesn't care if it is sent

o the

oversight committees or not

agrees with my view a this.

COORDINATED WITH (list names

as well

a 8

offices)

NAME

OFFICE

DATE

NAME

OFFICE

DATE

NAME

OFFICE

DATE

NAME

OFFICE

DATE

ACTIQN REQUIRED BY GLC

Decide if we should sent send This It SSCr

HAPSCI.

1до

---

