# 104-10177-10154

## Page 1

104-10177-10154

15.W1

1950:

TO:

Director

Federal Darean of lavesugallon

Alteation: Mr. S. J. Papich

том:

Depuly Director (Plane)

SUIJSCT: :

WIlliam AIRANder MORGAN

INT ERNAL SECURITY • Caba

Tile No. 105-1187

• Tho office requesse clearance for pamelag lo ibel

STORN TO

Inlicated above:

Background Use'

Do Not Reproduca

sho followlag information contained ln a memorandum fro

Clevolata, Oblo, dued & January 195% subject and Ille number'so

"wullier Alexander MORGAN was bora 19 April 1928 10

Cleveland: Oblo, He family moved to Toledo, Oblonten

was one year old. He atteaded Rosary Calhedral-School

sha lor ano youre use a inden at Central Catholic tige,

School He spent one yeer in te Valed stata Moschan!

Marines

and th

antisted in the balled stard Aney lion

walch be:

•MORGAN

i employed by Mar date compay i.

Dayton, Ohlo and it that time hio residence man llated

2699 Patterson Village Delve, Dayton, Oblo: the

Previensly bean arployed no custodian at bohol a

Carhodrei: Toledo, Oblo. He met the Caban rebel leadere

He was married to Thoross. (hoe

00l Civen) la Miam!, Florida da 1954 They be

enlidren

Me a onuary 193% ble ile and children

MORGAN'S 1a

probloms place be was a youngeter

MORCAN Sentei

December 1958 MORGAN conlor osaro

ome on December 26, 1937, and ho lad eos heard tron

Aenie

Does Him since that time

ES COPY SEGMET

201331/1/3

HBR

---

## Page 2

SUREL.

PAn artiele appearlog le the January l 1939 editos of tho

MUROAN, 3909 Colliegmad Boulevard, han boon named

Army Chil of sno Fidol CASIRO forces la Cicalunges Los

Viles Provlaco, Caba.

"The indices of the Toledo Police Department contate the:

fellowing das on Willam Alerander MORGAN SANSINBAD

arCADBT, 2909 Collagwood Boulevard, Toledo, Ould.

*Polee Department WilllamA.

lovestigated, relonsed

San Angelo. Tenas

MORGAN

, S18-46

Pollee Departmen

Teleda, Ohio

Widlam

MORGAN

USDA (Valted States

Detention Barracks):

Comp. Cooko, Call.

Fedoral Reformatory

Calllice:he Onlo

William

MOROAN

Arrested for arried

robbery. 4-17-466

Juvenile nos booked.

Arrosted for robbery

• sod?

5-18-48

WalLan A.

MORGAN

Federal Correction

insticare, Milan,

Michigan

Willar A.

MORGAN

robbery and toco

3 yeare

4-32-4904

Arrested tot

robbery late

alt and

excape from radare

Reformatory Chillicothe.

The recorde often

¿Toledo Police Department

Intend th

•on April 1946, loulowing

quandoned ond admitted paruel

MoBi on she provona

day

MORGAN MAD

allon la a number

mained.

officer of the Toledo Police

Ined on January 3, 19596 Mot MORGAN

aleo had a rasher

record an a Jur

and hid b

reparadion of being

the hoodium ales

mont ta the Cily of

Toledn. "

CSC1-3/960. 303

Distribution: . 2 - Addréssee

1 = Cl Lialson

• WE/J

= RI

A. - CI/R&A

03

Prepared by WE/BICEI

1 jal

309201145

1BR.

---

