# 104-10115-10138

## Page 1

10410115-10138,,

SÉCRET / SEr

23 February 1972

Nemorandum of Conversation with Ann Goodpasture-,

Subject: JMYAK--Agee's plan to resign and the kidnapping

of his children

1.

One Saturday afternoon (presumably in July of

1968) Ann Goodpastüre received a telephone call from

Heiry Dearborn,

counselor of Embassy, who had either

heard a local radio broadcast-or received a call from

a reporter to inquire--about a report of a U.S. diplomat

in Mexico being sought for kidnapping his two children

from their mother.

Dearborn was looking for COS Wynn

Scott to ask if the diplomat might be one of the Station

personnel.

?..

This was the first notice the Station had of

the matter

not unlil they received a query from Head-

quarters did they

know that Agee was the kidnapper (Ann

thinks dis.

had complained to Headquarters about

the kidnapping). Dearborn, incidentally, is retired now

and residing in Chevy Chase.

Regarding Agee's plans to resign, Ann said she

had been told by Charlotte Bustos on the Mexican Branch

in 1967 that Agee intended to ship some used dry cleaning

equipment to Mexico City, resign and set up a dry clean-

ing shop there at the end of his tour. She said he hoped

that the assignment as Olympic Attache would lead to an

additional regular tour at the Station, but it didn't

work out that way.

He was not allowed a full shipment of

effects for the short assignment to the Olympics, so his

plan to ship the dry cleaning equipment was foiled.

4. When I asked Ann if she was aware of the cause

of the Agee divorce

she said not but suggested we talk to

(Branch. 7 reports officer) who she thinks

SECRET

---

## Page 2

SICRE-I..»

- 2-

is well

acquainted with Agee (Sally, Ann and Agee

returned to Headquarters together

from a 1967 TDY

to

Punta

DCOS in Mexico

del Este) City

Ann also said that Stan Watson,

at the time of the kidnapping

Incident, worked with

the Embassy on this matter.

WH/FI

SECRET

---

