# 104-10183-10028

## Page 1

104-10183-10028

SENTEL

ROUTAG

i 5

DIRECTOR

FROM :

ACTION:

NFO:

ROME

CAVE 2 WE COPY SLOTTED AT 1715-17. JUL 63)

DOP, ADDP, C/CI, C/F1 2, C/51/0 4, C/SAS 3, RF 2

sclude fam

C/wB/4

•SECRET 171705Z

DC/KB/42 k

172261:81713

PRITY DIR CITE ROME 9701

WE/4/X

DESENSITIZED KE WAY PRUMEN DEVIGID AMWHIP

WE/4/CE

•T,

REF DIR 14488 #gum63

1. AFTER TELLING US OF INTENT, AMHIP 1 FÊLEPHONED

JAT EMBASSY 9 JULY 63. SAID HE VANTED GIVE HIM WATCH

TO SE FORWARDED TO JOSE VENEGAS VALDESPINO, STATED NATURE HIS

BUSIVESS ROME AND

NATED LOCATION OF STORE

ADDED HAD BEEN IN

• BARC WITH VENEGAS. MADE APPOINTMENT. WITH

06

2. ALL ABOVE, PICKED UP BY GEVIGID ON LAPÓGOD AMWHIP USED

NO NAME BUT DEVIGID NOW CHOKING AND WILL UNDOUBTEDLY

IDENTIFY ON BASIS OF STORE.

30 ANWHIP I NOT TOLD NOT TO USE PHONE IN ORDER

PROTECT (LAPOGO,

4. REALIZE AWWHIP I KUBARK ASSET OF LONG STANDING PER REF.

BUT RECOMMENO HE BE SURFACED AS CURS TO @EVIGIL) ASAP FOR

FOLL REASONS:

A. IF HE DELAY AND THEN IDENTIFY, DELAY WILL

PE COVICUS DE CASIS CATE CUR RECEIPT ABOVE ITE".

DO IF GO VET IDENTITY ASS DURING AUSUST GA,LATER VISITS

MEGE AMAMIP I POCDUCES USEFUL INTO ON SHICH EEVISIL) GEST EQUIPPED

TO ACT, HE SHALL LACK BASIS FOR DELAYINS INFO TO THEM.

20 JUL 150S

SOMET

iA4 A9"

REPRODUCTION DY OINER THAN TA: ISSUINO CFFICE IS PROMIBITED.

Copy Ns

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

---

## Page 2

CLASSIFIEO MESSAGE Ol

SUME

IN 816".

PAGE 2

DEVIGILS HAVE

TARSET,

NO SIGVIFICAVT NATIONAL INTEREST IN

WOULD PROBABLY ACCEPT CUR DECLARATION OF ASSET WITHOUT

INSTITUTINS SURVEILLANCE OR RELATED ACTION.

D.

APPROACH TYPIFIES PROBLEM. WE HAVE

PUSLE, CEVIGIL) HARD TO LAY GROUINDHORX FOR HIS RECRULTPENT AS

MEANS GETTING AT LAURICLE. NUMSER OF SIGNIFICANT PARUMEN

TARGETS ROME TOO SMALL TO PERMIT US HOPE AMWHILP I CAN DO USEFUL.

WORK AND CONTINUE ESCAPE DEVIGIL)ATTENTION. CAN WAIT UNTIL

THEY SURFACE HIM TO US AND PRETEND RECRUIT AS OF THAT

DATE BUT MANEUVER IS COMPLICATED AND GAIN IS SLIGHT.

SECRET

C/S COMMENT: "AMNHIP/I OFFERED SERVICES STA.

---

