# 104-10213-10022

## Page 1

104-10213-10022

104-10213-10022

INTERDICTION"

Lee ilarvey OSitio first cane to visitedle

upon receipt of AIRGRAl no. 1301, dated 31 October 1959, froz the

United States Embassy in Moscow, in which it was stated cha:

OSIVALS had appeared at the Enbassy on 31 Octover to renounce his

American citizenship. He stated that he had applied in Moscow

for Soviet citisenship after his arrival in the Soviet Union on

15 October. The first public reference to OSVALD appeared in the

Washington Post of 1 Yovenber 1959.

ches

On 2 November 1959, the FBI liaison officer requestedpa...

trace be run on Lee Harvey OSWALD in the tients central hold..

aze response on 4 November was negative.

Because of the counterintelligence inplications of

OSWALD's action, the Counter Intelligence Staff opened an offi-

cial file on Lee Harvey OSWALD to acconmodate biographic infor-

mation developed by the Agency in response to a Department of

State inquiry, dated 25 October 1960, on a list of American de-

fectors in Soviet Bloc countries. OSWALD's jane was one of those

appearing on the list. CIA forwarded an interim reply on 3

November 1960; a final reply on 21 November 1960. Until early

October 1963, the contents of the OSWALD file held by CIA consis-

ted entirely of press clippings and 'reports disseninated by the

Department of State, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, and the:

Departnent of the Navy.

On & October 1963, the CIA Station in Mexico City received

can named Lee OSWALD had contacted the Soviet Embassy in Mexico

City on Tuesday, 1 October 1963. He had spoken in halting Russ.

sian to the Soviet Embassy guard, Ivan Ivanovich OBYEDKOV, to ...

whom he said he had visited the Embassy

two days earlier, on

Saturday, 29 September. He asked whether there had been a reply

to a telegram that the Consuly with whom he had spoken, but whose

name he could not recall, had promised to send to Nashington.

---

## Page 2

OBYEDKOV had attenpted to establish the identity of the Consul

with whos OSivAlD had talked: 1f i: had been a dar's person, shen.

! It had probably been (Valeriy Vladiairovich) KOSTIKOV..

OBYEDKOV ,

after checking with Soviet consular personnel, assured OSVALD the

telegrar had been sent to mashingion sue no ansver nad been re.

celved."

*chis infomation

received in Headquarters On 9 Ocrober. WEXI -6453 (TN

36012. 2 0Ei0ber 1903.1 A file check on 10 October by Agency

personnel in Hashington revealed the possibility that the Lee

OSWALD who had spoken with OBYEDKOV, and presumably with KOSTIKOV

and Lee Harvey

OSWALD, the defector,

were the same person.

On 10 October: 1963_ CIA Headquarters disseminated by cable:

EDIR 74623, 10 October 19631 the

report in substantially the form

and detail given above, to governnent agencies whose jurisdictionai

interests had been established by a voter of ossaces en ther

Federal bureau of Investigation, the Departmont of state, the Des

parcene de die vy and she danigation end tauricon sen

vice, I comment was included in the report noting the liklihood

that Lee OSWALD was probably identical with the former marine who-

had defected to the Soviet Union in 1959.

(Conment: - For some in-

explained reason, OSWALD's statement that he had been to the Soviet!

Embassy two days before on 28 September 1963 had nöt been included

in the dissemination.]

•On the sane day, 10 October 1963, CIA Headquarters sent to the

Mexico City Station a lengthy cable sunmary (DIR 74330, 10 October

1963] of the background information held in the Headquarters le

on OSWALD.

The Mexico City Stacion was instructed to pass the suo

stance of his uptober report to the local representactres of

sane U.s: Governent agences and departents that mad been the

information in iashington.

Amb

an was paszed

abet to)

the Legal

sacre a neur a rothe

or, the Minister the counsetor

Political

---

## Page 3

According to Agency files, the Chief of Station addressed

a senorandus or 16 Cetober 1053 to thé tabassado: in ihich ie vas

stated that "On 1 October 1963, an American male contacied the

Soviet Enbassy and identified ninsel: as Lee OSiALD. This office

¡deterined that OSivAlD had been at the Soviet Enbassy on 25 Septen-

Set t96s and had talked with valerty lacintrovich XOStIoy,-a me

ber of the Consular Section, in order to learn is the Soviet Embas

sy had received a reply fron Hashing on concerning his requesti

ie have no clarifving information with regard to this request.".

Bar ecuad amost that "Our Headquarters has informed

us that/OSWALD above is probably identical with lee Henrylsief

SID, Corte i Come Me taTe Cleans, Louisiana, a former

radar operator in the U. S. Marine Corps who defected to the Soviet

Union in October 1959": The original of this menorandun was: for-

warded to the Ambassador, the Minister, the Counselor for Petitical

Affairs, the Restonal Security officer, with i

= copies mal to

tià begal detache, the Vaval ittache, and the representativo of

the innigration and Naturalization Services

On 19 October 1963, FBI Headquarters in Nashington received a

¡ cablegram from A Legal Attache in Mexico City." This cablegram furl

nished information from CIA classified'SECRET - Not to be further

Disseminated", reporting that Lee OSWALD had contacted Soviet Vice

Consul Valeriy

•KOSTIROV, of the Soviet Enbassy, Mexico City,

Mexico, on September 28, 1963, The Legal

_Atrache indicated that he

was following this matter with CIA and was attempting to establish

OSVALD's entry into Mexico and his current whereabouts- [Connission

Exhibit no: 834, pD. 8-9, Vol. XVII, Hearings bezore the Prest.

dent's Commission on the Assassination of President Kennedy. J.

By the 25th of october 1905, FBI Headquarters had lufored i

field office in ver orleans that "another agency had determined

that fee OSwALD was in contaer with the Soviet Enbassy in Mexico

Cisje in the oarly part of October 1963", The Vow Orleans field

office forwarded this information ta the FBI Field office in Dallas

en 25 October 1963. ivaL IV, pRudi and 159, Hearings before in

---

## Page 4

10115

. ...

=1.29

President's Conmission on the Assassination of President Kennedy.]

Betreen 10 October ad 22 ovember 1965 tiere ino sconde

COMMERCIA

a requests/from recipients of the 10 October dissenination

for further information or follow-up investigation.

On IZ Novenber 1965, after the news of the assassination nad

reached iexico city, the Station inttiated i revier of alt voice

intorci sud o photograpito coverago os bots ho sorter and

Cuban Embasstesi This revier of voice intercept Eranscripts cer-

ducted by the monitor and other Station personnel turned up other

a conversations era on 27 and 28 September and

on 1 October 1965g These transcripts were reported to Readquarters

23 November 1963: [MEXI-7023 (IN. 67108); MEXI=7025 (IN 67188),

and MEXI-7033 (IN 67232) • 11:

A 57

From. this review by the Station it became evident that OSWALD

had also visited the cuban Consulate in Mexico City and had talked

there wi a ca vertear national, mared suria due aer

tho assessination and tho publicity abour Loo OSWALDi SilVia DURAN

had calda number of relatives and friends chat she had calked ce

OSWALD about a Cuban visa.

-SilVia DURAN and her husband, Horacio.

- DURAY Navarro, were detained and questioned by the Mexican police

from 23 to 25 November 1963.

After giving some of the details of her own personal back-

ground - she was an admitted leftist sympathizer and had formerly

worked for the Mexican-Cuban Institute of Cultural Relations - Sil-

via_DURAN said that when she first heard of the death of. President

Kennedy she had been depressed and thought-the assassin must have

been a maniac. When she learned he was associated with the "Fair

Play for cuba Committee" she did not belleve it

When she learned the hane of the assasstn was Lee ostato

she remembered ho ras the wan nio had come to the consutare about

two months before to get a visa to pass through cuba on his way to

the savier Union. She realized that he had said he ras married i

Bussian and that he had betonged to the "Fair Play fer Cuba""

group She checked her file on him in the consular dechivas and

---

## Page 5

from the description of OSWALD, she was sure it vas the sane man.

OSWALD was denied a Cuban transit visa because he did not yet have.

a Soviet visa, and he was told to get the soviet visa first, bur le

iwas nored that this, would require about four sonths. She had asked

the Cuban Consul himself, Euscbio AZCUE, I0 calk to OSWALD and. Ehey

had an argument when AZCUE urged OSWALD to Teave Mexico Instead of

matting there: The consul had phoned the sovier consulate and

tatted to the person handling osWAlD's visa request, aho had sata

It would take about four months to hear frop doston about the song

visa The same afcoroon, asHAlahadisono back again and she had

told his the same thing. She gave OSKALD a slio of paper with her

nand and telephone nunher on it in case he ever set hit alet vit

he did not call back, she said.

Silvia DURAN was reinterrosated by the Mexican police

¡from 27 to 29 November but she did not change of add materially-to"

her story about ÖSWALD..

- It. is known that the Cuban Ambassador in Mexico, Joaquin

HERVANDEZ Armas, reported on the detainment and interrogation öf ??

Silvia DURAN by the Mexican authorities.

The Cuban Goverriment also

sent the Mexican Covernment a stiff noce of protest, which the Mexi-

can Government rejected.

On 26 November, the day after DURAV's release, Cuban Pra

sident DORTICOS queried HERVANDEZ about his report. HERVANDEZ COn

fred may there lad been an altercation between Usial and consu

AZeUE. DORTleOs wade a persistent but unsuccessful effort to de

terine from HErVANDer whether the Mexican authorities had threaten

nod Silvia DURU so that she would make a statement that the Con

sulate "had given noney to that American". HERVANDEZ'S response

was that nothing of that sort had happened. NEXt CIN CIN

26 November 1963; EMMA-22545, 29 Novenber 19631

The CIA follow-up investigation produced the following

confired results which have a bearing on Silvia DURAY's account:

a. 27 September. In Hid-afternoon, Silvia DURAN infor

in siona

---

## Page 6

ned the Soviet Embassy that a male Anerican citizen had

requested à visa to transir cuba on his way to the soviet

Union. She desired to know with whos she American had

spoke az che Sovier Consulate. Also she indicated tha?

. =

---

## Page 7

=8 =

the Cuban Consulate could grant hia a visa and arrange

innization details if the concession of a Soviet visa were

assured.

b. 2i September. Pursuant to her inquiry, Silvia DuRi

received a confirmation from the Soviet Embassy that the

American had been to the USSR installation. He had shown

them a letter from the Soviet Consulate in washing:on indi

cating that he had been long awaiting a visa for himself

and his wife to go to the USSR.. No answer had come frow

Washington; however, the waiting period was sometimes four

or five months. The American also had a letter attesting

that he was a member of a pro-Cuban organization but he had

claimed that the Cubans would not give him a visa unless he

had already received a Russian visa. -

Although the American was still at the Cuban Consulate

Silvia DURAN repeated that she could not give hima transit

visa unless a Soviet visa was forthconing, notwithstanding

the American's wish to go to Cuba to wait there for his

Soviet visa. According to DURAN, the American knew no one

In Cuba and she intended to make an appropriate annotation

on the Anericants card. The Sovirt official echoed her

statement that the American was not known..

c. 28 September. Silvia DURAN as again visited at

the Cuban Embassy in Mexico City by the American seeking a

Cuban transit visa. Mrs. DURAN contacted at least two men-

bers of the Soviet Enbassy and facilitated a direct con-

versation between one of the Soviets and the American.

Speaking in poor Russian, the American stated that he al?:

ready had been to the Soviet Consulate and had left an ad-

dress. The Soviet official replied that he was aware of

that. The American suggested that he had not known his

address then, and he had gone to the Cuban Embassy to ask

for the address, because they had it. The American them

---

## Page 8

-too

acceded to the Soyiet official's invitation to come by, i

*..

and give them the address.

d. 1 October.. In mid-norning an unidentified individual

speaking broken Russian, contacied the Soviet Military.

Attache in Mexico City. He said he had been to the Eno

bassy the previous Saturday (28 Septenber) and had zalked

with a consul who had said they would send a telezran to

rashligion. had there been a reply? He was referred to

-tire Consulate for the information.

These additional materials were promptly disseminated in Washington

oy tho clinto the sto louse the bopertnent of state, and the e

Federa sure de Tavascination lou releype no sals, did a

5 Naveaber 1965 esct-3/178,826, dared 23 Vavember 1963. 1

¿Erels believed chat the soviet oracial wien whom OSWALD?

deáit in Mexico City was Consular Attache Valerly Viadimirovich

KOSTIKOY, born on Mostow, 17 March 1933. In his letter of 9 Voven-

ber 196s to the Soviet Consulate in Washington, OSWALD wrote about:

shts "neetings with Comrade KOSTIN (sic). of the Soviet Union in Mexif

co City, Mexico".

There is no official of the Soviet Embassy in

Mexico City with a name resembling "KOSTIN", other than Consul a

KOST ỚY :

KOSTIKOV was the senior officer of five Soviet Consular

representatives who dealt with visas and related matters: There

was firs evidence for the conclusion that KOSTIROV was a soviet

State Security (XGS) officer, and the other four Consular officers.

were. also know or strongly suspected of tetig sorter state security

persomel serving under official cover.

2:17

-KOSTIKOV was-believed-to-be a member-of-Departnent Thir

teen of the First Chief Directorate of the KGB. Departient Thir

teen is responsible for executive action, including saberage and

assassination. Its headquarters according to very reliable is-

formation conducts intervieus of, as appropriate, file reviews on

every foreign military defector to the USSR to study and to deter.

---

## Page 9

acceded to the Soyiet official's invitation to come by.y

•and give them she address.

d. =1 October.. In mid-norning an unidentified Individual

speaking broken Russian, contaczed the Soviet Military

Attache in Mexico City. He said he had been to the, "

bassy the previous Saturday (28 Septenber) and had calked

with a Consul who had said they would send a telegran to

washington! had there been a reply? He was referred to

- the consulate for the information

These additional materials were promptly disseminated in Washington,

bye tho GIAnto tho whito House, the Department of state, and che

Eederal BUICaLL Of

Investigation

lOut Teletype no 81915, dared

15 Yarenber 1965, SCI-5/779,226, dated 23 Navenber 1963. 2105)

Te is believed chac the soviet decial vien whom OSYALD

deat in Mexico city was Consular Attache Valerly Vladimirovich

KOSTIXOY, born on Moscow, i7 March 1933.

In his -letter of 9 Noven-

ber 1963 ¿o the Soviet Consulate in Washington, OSWALD wrote about.

his "neetings with Comrade KOSTIN [sic]. of the Soviet Union in Mexif

co City, Mexico". There is no official of the Soviet Embassy ir

Mexico City with a game resembling "KOSTIN", other than Consul :

KOSTIKOV:

KOSTIKOV was. the senior officer of five Soviet Consular

representatives who dealt with visas and related matters. There

was firs evidence for the conclusion that KOSTIKOV was a Soviet

State Security (KGS) officer, and the other Four Consular officers.

Were to tate seete a bets sorter state secures

personel serving under official cover.

2:09

KoSTIOV-was-believed-to-be-a member-of-Department Thir

teen of the First Chief Directorate of the KGB

Department This

reen is responsible for executive action, including sabotage and

assassinatione. Tos headquarterse according to very sellable Pa

formation conducts interviews or, as appropriate, file reviews on

every foreign military defector to the USSR to study and to deter.

jai dai, s

---

## Page 10

mine the possibilly of utilizing the defector in his country of

lorigin.

(Conment:

OS*ALD's contact with a kora nice, particularly

an officer of the 13th Departent, was fad intention so tyret

9053: 114

theods

Ear nore sinister reasons thanito

obtain travel documents allowing fin to pass through cuba on his

way to the Soviet Union. meat

• Thererore.

CIA

aga devoted a

great deal of ture and effort to trying to make a determiration a5

to whether OSHALD, as the assassin of prestient Kennedy, might have

been acting in the capaiety of a witting agent of a foroign powor.

hah review and study of all available naterial mit

pravided: 10-60548666

ver that OSNALD had heen acring under direc

Ition of the KGB.

The Agency also examined all available infomation in an

attempt to determine the exact nature of his contacts with the cu-

ban Consulate in Mexico City. The Agency was equally unsuccessful

in uncovering any evidence that OSWALD's contacts with personnel:

'of the Cuban Consulate had any other motive than to obtain a tran-

isit visa for Cuba, T

wanting b trand=

OSWALD's reasons forAtajeling to the Scriet Union have

never been satisfactorily deterained.

---

## Page 11

14-00000

"The evidence indicates that lee Harvey-

OSHALD was in Mexico City foon a1 Septeaber

1963 through 2 Ociober 1963.. On October 10,

1963, Bureau Headquarters Har proKided Kith

•a copy .of a ClA cable. Which stated that Lee

Henry OSWALD' (sicl had been in contact with

tne Soviet

Enbassy in Mexico Cisy on Septem-

ber 28, 1963. 36

-Footnote no. 36: CIA cable E=on Mexico Station

to 12I Headquarters 19f17/65, memorandan ETO

LEGAT, Mexico City to FBI headquarters, 10/19/63.

all che infamazion chas the FlI had DIlar

to November 22, 1963, on OSKALD's activities in

Mexico City cane from the clA.

On October 3.

the CIA Mexico Station reported

to Head-

thar OSWALD had been in contact with e

The Soviet Enbassy.

On October 10,

1955, CIA

passed this information with some background

material to the Navy, the state department, and

• the FBI.

•.The Mexico Station nade a similar

distribution io FBI and State Departmont-offi

cials in Mexico. - Since OSWALD was an American

citizen; and since FBI was the responsible

agency, disseminating this information ended

-CIA's responsibility in this ratter.

Silento a

Etross in above quote from Book Var

26242581

as The CIA dissemination of 10 October 1963

[DIR 746731.80 the FBI, Navy, and State, made no mention

Of OSWALD's contact with the Soviet Enbassy on 28 September

::.6.9111

1963.. Although this intomation had teen reported. to Head

quarters by MEXI 6453 (Hy 36017), 9 October 1963, the action

desk negleeted to includ in its dissonination that in addi-

cian ta OstalD's relephone call to the Soviet Enhassy en

L October, OSHALD had mentioned that he lad visited the

Soviet Embassy on 28 September 1963.

=-2221

b. On & october 1965, not 3 october, the CIA

Mexico Station reported to Headquarters that OSwAlD had

been in contact with the soviet Embassy, The cable was

received in Headquarters on 9 October 1963.

_c.' The Mexico Station nade a similar distr?:

bution to FBI and State officíals In Mexico on 16 October

• 1963.

This menorandun addressed to the Ambassador with

copies to the Minister, the Counselor for Political A-a

fairs, the Regional Security Officer, the Legal Attache res

the Naval Attache, and the JENS representative included

---

## Page 12

14-00000

the statement that "This office deternined tha? ÖSNALD had been

as on a*

at the Soviet Enbassy on 28 September 1963 and had talked with

Valeriy Vladinirovich KOSTIKOV, a member of the Consular Sec-÷ d

tion, in order to learn if the Soviet: Eabassy had received a

-**=

reply fron washington concerning his request."

---

## Page 13

"96 le is also inseructive to sate

that CIA Director John McCONE telephoned

FBI Director HOQVER on the moraine of yo-.

vember 26, 1963,

and after noting that the

President wanted to make sure che ClA was

giving the F3I full support, specifically

offered to make

'CIA'S oDerational resources

in Mexico

available to the Bureau..

"The Committee has seen no evidence that

the FBI asked the CIA to conduct an investí-

gation or gather Information on the assassi

nation

case, but middle-level ClA personnel

did routinely provide tre jureau with infor

mation that came to their attention in the

assassination ease."

9б, ірода 39, 14

Coment:

Herewith

Incomplete list of requests from the FBI

for assistance and formation from the Clar The List speaks e

59: #9.:.

for itself..

426 November

-Subject. Richard Thomas GIBSON. 2

1-759

(Paraphrase) During the afternoon of 26

Horember INANITION 1? pagged to the for

-representative in Bern a report (quoted

in futt in the cablo, the FBI represeni

"tative innediately notified EL'ARD (P)

and after discussing the content of the

CONTaCE INANITION SOOLeST. FINARD em-

phasized the utmost importance the US

Government attached to follow-up of this

•ELMARD received pronpt answers

to initial questions and arranged to neet

with IVANITION/ZU, INAVITION/6 in conpany

with the FBI representative in Bern.

_ = [BERY 2492 (IN 68312), 26 November 1963

;28 November

1963

Subject:

Rumored £5,000 bank deposit

made by OSWALD upon return fron Mexico

on 3 October 1963

The FBI has just lexied en us an official

_Tumor about lve thousanc

lollars bank deposit.

tor 18634, 28 November 1o-

DIR 85654,

---

## Page 14

14-00000

28 November 1963

Subject:

Interrogation of Gilberto ALVARADO.

The FBI liaison officer

(S. PAPICH) offi-

cially advises that the FBI requests CIA

turn ALVARADO over to lexican authorities

and that CIA request the Mexican authori

ties to interrogate ALVARADO in detail.

FBI reports that it uncerstands that the

Mexican authorities have a capability of

polysraphing and requests that ChA Tes

•-quest Mexican authoricies that he be poly-

graphted.

The FyI-expressed a desire to have the re-

sults of the interrogation as soon as possi

blo and chat the Logal detacio bo kept advised

•ід.

of developments.::

EF.

[DIR 85663, 28 November 1963)

20 November 1963 M

subject a Ricardo SAyTos

MME PAPICH referred me to DIR 85665, 28 November"

He referred to the fact that there 15 t

report that the Third Secretary of the Cuban:

Embassy in The Hague, Ricardo SANTOS, has a pro

FUSS' CASTRO brother in the United States.. He stated

that he would appreciate our checking out files

Tor-taking-such other steps as may be indicated

to provide the Buroau wich the iderity of the

brother said to be in the u. S

• [Memorandum

from CI/SIG I0 Chief, WH/3, 29

November 1963.

9

December 1963.

Subject: Chinese Communist and CASTRO Plot.

-AE UgOU Ön y december 196J Mr. "PAPICH Of ThE

FBI-called and advised that the Bureau had a

-communicacton from their Miami field office

•setting.forth infomation which had been re-

ceived in a memorandun iron our office in

•Miami concerning a report which had been re-

ceived from & Western diptonat alleging that

the assassination of President Kennedy was the

jesultof-aplot-prepared.and executed.jointly

--by the Chinese communists and CASTRO through

internediaries.

MI, PAPICH stated that the Bureau would like

• to evaulate this information if possible •

Said

the Bureau was very much interested ir

identifying the source and

It would appreciate

any Information we can

give on where and how

this diplomat got this information sincet

would help the Bureau to evaluate this informa-

tion.

He said that the Bureau would find the

---

## Page 15

14-00000

1=::

Identity of the source

and possible access

to the source, if in this country, most

helpful.

Menorandum for the Record, dated 9 Deceaber

1963; Subject:

Lee Harvex OSiLILD.}

119 December 1963

Subjeet:

Nonenclature of Weapon possibly

owned by Lee Harvey OSWALD.

•On 18 December 1963 a representative of your

Bureau requested clarifying inforuation about

"certain Soviet nomenclature believed to refer

to a firearm once possessed in the Soriet Union

-aby Lee OSWALD._ ..

We were asked to determine what kind of weapon

this might de.

3/979,225 r0 the FBI, dated 19 Decenhei

19o5; sublecter Nomenclature. of Heapon possibly

amed.by Lee-Haryey OSWALD. J

...

AS 22 2 January 1964

Subject:

Jack L. RUBY :

/ 20431

the Far on Decener an -1965,

furnished to

a.letter which

had been forwarded to a friend of his named

Jose Antonio:Juan.

Mr.. Juan had received

letter fron his son living in cubas

In the lottor the statoment Has made,

 known here that, RUBINSTEIN was here a lietle

Jess than a year ago visiting a Me. PRAYSKI

owner of a shop dealing in tourist articles,

Jacated on prado street betreen Animas and

¿Trocadero, opposite the Sevilla Biltmore.".

It is requested that, through available sources

of your Agency

develop any infornation

possible relating to the above quoted statement

In an effort to resolve the allegation that

Jack I. RUBY has possibly Visited Cuba since

s 1959 and has connections there.

.. i can.

SIFBI Memorandum to the DDP, dated y January

Subject. Jack Lo-RUBY .

9 January 1964

Subject: Lee Harvey OSWALD

Attached is a copy of a memorandum from the

Federal Bureau of Investigation on Lee Harvey

OSWALD dated 31 December 1963 and an enclosure

to the nemorandun containing ganes

_addresses

OSWALD'S

and other papers

at the time

of his arrest in Dallas,

will be noted that the Bureau has asted us to

I do g5 suite

---

## Page 16

4

i determine whether any of the listed names,

addresses or telephone numbers have in the

past been connected with the Soviet intelli

gence serrices

(Memorandun for Chief, OS/SRS;

dated 9 January 2

1963; Subject.

Lee Harvey OSWALD.)

114 January 1961

Our Chief of Station in Mexico dispatched cable [EXI-

(IN 98273) 1, advising of a request on the part of the Legal

¡Attache for the development of information concerning one Daniel.

SOLIS' KROMledge Of ROJAS, whose name appears to be Xlario ROSeS

Villaueva, a 31-year old Mexican Citizen residing in Guadalajara

[alleged notebook said co be in the possession of SOnS, and an 21

altered official of the American Governent. sala to have been In

COME ICE WITH OSTrALD Di CoZOMEt, Hawed Albert LNU

2020628004220174

emoradar for the locord, dated 15 Jamery 19641 Subjects

Lee

Harvey OSNALD.}

2200

CS+:49924

S2938C

q February 1965-1

Subjects Elädio ROJAS Villanueva.

1=37

The Legal Attache in Mexico City would prefer that the

COS tell Luis ECHEVARRIA, -acting minister of gobernacio, name of

"subject and that with ROJAS" agreement plan to give him a polygraph

and prozise ECHEVARRIA a brief statement of the resukts of the test

6. i

The Legal Attache in Mexico City would prefer have the

polygraph given in Mexico city; he could, li ClA strongly prefers,

get their headquarters' and subject's agreement to go to Texas..

MEXT -3177 (IN 15081) February 1964T

12 February 1964

Legal Attache (in Mexico City) requests the following

¿ additional questions be put to Daniel SOLIS:

a.. Verify 11 SOLIS has received two letters

recently from Eladio ROJAS Villanueva aka Eladio

• VILLAVUEVA regarding notebook.

---

## Page 17

= 0g

Mr Edwin.O. JOHNSON, Consulado Anericano, Guaga»-

lajara, Jalisco,

_Letters In possession of VILLANUEVA indi

care he was in Cozunel wich Daniel SOLIS-for.

_at_least_three-months-in 1963.

_Can SOLIS Ie:

call dates?.

d. ASK SOLIS iS VILLANUEVA waS in contact with

Cubans or Anericans while in Cozumel: Ask hi

how VILLANUEVA occupied his time.

MEXI -8194 (IN 18129) 12 February 1964.15

25 Pebruary 196€

12.57

Subject.

-RUBY.

-?.

it would be apreciated you courd promptle

I-s€

01

any information aver table to you so

tend so verify this travel by RUBY."

(Memorandun to Mr Minsion M Scort dated 25 February 1969

fram Clark De: ANDERSON; Legal Attache (Mexico City); Subjecti

Jack I. RUBY:1

13 April 1964

Subject Lee Harvey OVALD's Access to Classified

Information about the U=l-

*Reference is made to your letter, dated 13

Aprtl 1964, captioned Tee Harvey OSWALD, In

Laura iRri

Ferna Scorty - Russia - Cuba, and to the

attachment which contained statements made

by one Eugene J. HOBBS, INC, USN. Your terter

requested-certain information regarding suba

ject's Marine-assignment-at-the Naval-Air

Station,-Atsugiy Japan, -in-1957-and -195%."

Menerandun for Director, Federal Bureau of Investigation,

dated 13 May 1964, from CIA.) -=

---

## Page 18

10 June 1964

-Subject:- Lee Harvey OSTALD.

uft is beliered this allegation that

OSWALD was in Tangier, Morocco, should

be investigated-and-you-are requested to

- cosduct the necessary inquiries, -if pos=.

sible, to resalve che allegation. -Inasmueh

as it appears that the President's-Comi

ssion.contemplates_the issuance.of its-re-

-port in the near future, iths believed

this matter ghould be handled expeditiously."

Menorandun to Director;

Central Intelligence Agency

Attent

Deputy Director,

Plans; dated 10 June 1964,

from

• Dire

.=

28 July 196€

subject her harvey osvate.

a venot the foregoing factor. " wourd

1123

-bo appreciated if you would review materiat

?t?.

available to you concerning

the.accrvIby.of

- Radio Mascon in an offort-to identify, the

tra-minute broadcast referred to by OSVALD

in the aforementioned documents.

"He would also appreciate advice-as to the

telephone number in 1959 and the current

telephone number of Radio Moscow and He would.

appreciate advise as to whether or not tele.

phone number V 36538 was listed in the 1950

Moscow Telephone Directory.

and.

"It would appear to us that if OSVALD partici-??

pated in a radio program for Radio Moscow, this

"fact would have been known to the KGB and a re-

ference to such participation would likely have

---

## Page 19

' been contained in OSWALD's KGB file.

fe-would.-be-sppreciated te or rould question

VOSENKa in-light-of-the- foregoing observazions:

In this-zegard iris suggested that NOSEYKO-not

be_informed.of OSVALD's.possession.of.thear

address, and telephone number of Lev SETY EV

Memorandum for Director, Central Intelligence Agency; Attention:

Deputy Director, Plans; Subject: Lee HarVey OSMALD -InternaliE

Security - Russia.

Cuba; from Director, FBT.i

;c."

_.ai.

---

## Page 20

14-00000

"The (FBI) supervisor also testified

had the opportunity to ques.

tion

•On- the morning he arrived in

Mexican police and denied the supervisor's

repeated requests to interrogate

"D'. He

learned that the Mexican police had exhaus-

tively interrogated

'D" and that he had re-

canted his allegations."

Footnote states that "However, the ?31 Mexteo

CIty Legat tater had access to ' and interro.

gated him.

{V. 431

NB: The suparvisor arrived in sexico city

on 27 November and left on f December 1963

Gaynes

*Louments:

According. to MEXT -7124,.

28: November 1963, ALVARADO.

-twas turned over to the Mexican Ministry of Government. at 1630-

rivashington time an November November 1955-115 nove was made Ange

accordance with FBI'S request of 28 Movember 1985 Lu Headyuarters

740259

that the dextean Che station turn AbARaDo over to Mexican author

cies

{DIR 05663

62d November 1965J

The inferenco of this quote from Book k is that cli

usod obstructivo tactics ta prevent the rat supervisor tram having

access to AVARADO the auchers, haverer, do rention, las teer.

nere that the Lezat Attache did lain access to AlVARADO, but this.

-293

tactic does not remove the unspoken allegation from the main body

"slof' the text that the CIA had been obstructive.

The Mexico City Station frles show that the Station

and the Legal Attache worked closely together.

• In fact, DIR 85661, 28 November 1963; tells the Station

that Larry KEEMAN from FBI now in Mexiço.:

He was

sent especially

to follow up leads on the entire assassination. Headquarters asks

that the Station "cooperate with him fully":

---

## Page 21

"On December 1

1963, ClA received infor

mation that a November 22 Cubana airlines

f1igh:

from Mexico City to Cuba was delaved

sode five HoUrs, OM 5:91 Yo. tO 11:0 P.M.

E.S.T.,

awaiting an unidertified passenger. (69)

This unidontified-passenger arrived at the

airport in a twin-engined aircraft at 10:30

pete and boarded the Cubana airlines plane

without passing through

custons, where ne

would have needed to

identif: himself br dis-

playing a passport.

The incividual travelled

to Cuba in the cockoit of the Cubana airlines

plane, thus again avoiding toentification by

the passengers. [69]

Footnote- nos.

68 and 69: Cable

from CIA Head

quarters to Mexico Station, 12/1/63

(V: 60-631

conem The 1 December 196s is in errare Also the hours

eited in the above paragraph are not exact: the footno

co ¿ Headquarters

capta dated l Docember 1965

alse incerrect.

The cable la question, are test

30 'November 1963.

1961. 1e Feads 2s- 4011ouse

Has has

Feceived-report that on day of

President Kennedy's assassination (22 yov)

•Cubana aircraft delayed its departure Mexico.a

- City five hours fron 1700 to 2200 awaiting

important passenger who arrived Mexico City

Airport in private twin-motor aircraft at

735,

2130 Hours Mexi tine. Passenger transferred

directly to cuband phane without going throughs

custons of inmigration. Travelied in pilots

Fini

'cabin to Havana,"

Headquarters vent an ca say chas the loration care trans

KULCER diplomat who had been a passerger on the same plane to

Havana. Headquarters asked the Station to ätrenpt an identifica.

tion and to determine the reason for such unusual actions at the

airport.

The Headquarters cable is included in the OSWALD official file;

and a copy is also in the Mexico Cly Station files. There is no

Indication anywhere that anything was done in response to Head:

quarters' requirements.

mainted airs i

anitates

---

## Page 22

"On December 3,

CIA Headquarters first

received inforsation

the Mexico Station

*onE-Cuban American.

According to Passport.

Office recoris, his file there das checked

on Decenber A bya-representative-of-the

This CIA representative testified that

127302

hecould-notrecattsuchzchookor-the..o

(CIA Liaison Oificer Testimony,

51317552-7

"On DecerberS, the Mexico Station ca-

bled that a source

saw the Cuban-American

board a flight from Mexico City to Havana

reported that he

"looked suspicious'

also reported what was then known about his

itinerary.

IV. 30]

Conments

According to a Memorandun for the Record, dated 1d

De

cember 1963;

from CI/SIC, "It was subsequently determined throug

MES. ROMAN of Liaison, who checked the records of Passport Dive

sion of the Department under the passport number and name as given

n: IN: 72615 (NEXt 72161 that the subject in this instance toth

fact a person other than the one cited by the Bureau. The subject

Tof

interest by reason of both name and the number of the passport

15 shown in the Department of State Passport records as Gilberto

POLICARPO LOpeZ.

On 5 December, E

the Mexico Station did cable that.

Gilberto LOPEZ "departed as only passenger on Cubana flight on

night 27 Novenber for Havana."

" Thefe was no mention that he "looked

suspicious".. This information appears in a Memorandum for the Files

dated s Deceber 1965, from nara C. quers, Xen on December

I963 LITEMPO/4 reported that one Gilberto LOPEZ, U. S. cItizen who=

5: 125

arrived in Mexico on 25 November 1965, Nooked suspiclous

This small point does not, verhaps, mean much except to

underline-the sloppiness-of the authors of the report in setting

down-the facts.

---

## Page 23

14-00000

"10?. The evidence alao establianes that

there was confusion as ta rich las agercu see

conducting tre investigation in laziso.

acerougi

the 30a3040 and +43410302 10509597409itorio

in Weanington beliaved that the PBI uaa conducting

tho intoptigation in tea?co, the position

waa that, cithough the f9i dould cooparate, orly

getting investigative resilts abroad'. lemorar-

сит гО А. Вестоль, ТТУТ /Бо. Г

neither tre Legat nor ina Sureau

uper tronica neitor the tat no to serene

the investigation' knew vietner the State Devartmen:

the CIA was in fact investigating in ilezico.

(V. 40; footnote no. 102.1

Comment: I don't believe this statement. The FBI had the

primary responsibility for the investigation in the United

States and because of the FBI position in Mexico, the Legal

. Attache conducted investigations there; however, he worked

closely with our Station relying upon us for matters which

clearly fell within our responsibility for foreign intelli-

gence.

The inference here is that there was confusion as

to sho was running the shaw, thereby building the aigument

that the FBI and CId failod so do an adoquato investigation

-of the assassination

I'm sure there may have been some slippage but

nothing sertois enough to cause a serious disagreement be-

tween CIA and the FBI.

---

## Page 24

14-00000

"On the same day, a cable listing DD!

HELMS as the releasingo ficer bas dispatoned

to CIA stationa in Europe and Canado.

This

e=amina material obicined from a specified

Pensitive end reliable soure, became of

obvious significance of any scrap of informa-

thon artch saars on (tial claasaination iasue.

The Desk Officer in charge of the CIA irves-

tigation was unaware that suen a message had

been sent out and was at the time unaware of

sensitive and raliable source mentioned.

[V. 29)

Comment:

The cable in question is DIRECTOR 85133 written

R. T.WALSH, WE/SPO. WH shows on distribution, therefore,

"Desk Officer in charge of the CIA investigation" should

have seen it. He should also have been aware of the

specific source - "Because of obvious significance any scrap

Information which bears on President's Assassination desire

addressee stations screen carefully all audio tapes since

22 November 1963 for comments and cable any significant infer-

mation so obtained."

---

## Page 25

•e''-"At noon on November 25,-"D', a Latin

Anerican,

appeared al the American Embassy

in Mexico-Cicy, 1357 He told Embassyper

• sonnel that he was in the Cuban consulate

on September-17and-saw Cubans-who discussed

assassination pay Oswald a sum of money.

He

Station chael. V.291 to 109-01 Mexico

Station Chief."

Comments:

a.. ALVARADO at no tine appeared at the American

Embassy - some of our own reporting is inaccurate. According

to ALVARADO's interrogation by Mexican authorities, he called

the American Embassy on 25 November "and succeeded in

speaking to :

a high official with whom he made an appointment for that same day

aE 5:50 p.mo near the Hotel Maria Isaber a Tve Incividuals: appear

ed-for the appointment

According to a note in the Mexico

Creasesen

stacion files

-- dat

5 November = chese two men were

ACC. pLAyECK, both were Embassy securto officers

=b.

152.

During his

first nesting with Embassy offici

securtty officers);

ALVARADO CHined he had been de the caban

tor

sulato on the seen as september not the see fact.

did be

refer to the

date -17 Septeber:: Daring-che interrogatio

connection with the palygraph exanination on 6 Decenbe

7,3537

ALVARADO revealed he was "unsure es the day Of week alleredly Sam

OSWALD. Thinks that it was on Tuesday Vhich would have been 17

September:" MEXI-7289 (IN 755997, 7 December 1963).

-i'.

C. At no rime did ALVARADO repeat his story to the

"CIA Mexico Station Chief". ALVARiDo first told his story, as in-

dicated above, on 25 November to two officers of the Embassy Secu-

rity Office. The next day, in the norning, he met with PLAMBECK

of the Embassy Security Office, and a Station officer. *

Dar ins the.

meeting that he evening (26 November). ALVARADO was Interrogated by

two officers from the Station.

Note for the Record, dated 25

November 1963, signed by PLAYBECK; Memorandu for ClaTK ANDERSON,

Legal Attache, dated 29 November:

1963,- from Minston M. SCOTT:1

173.

---

## Page 26

14-00000

190, he 5ur intervieved tutce by plagents,

on each occasion he repeatedly lied.

Be also

Toyused to de polugrcaned about nue negative

anguers to questiong of tree sith societ intel-

Ligence.

Za: the Pet closed ine OStied security

case immediataly after the second interviere

The case was re-opered in Maren 1963,

DUE OSWALD

Усв 1ос вВеличече 21 Iло -в- упок іднал за

os, wen Ce requested an interulew arcer hir

On the ocecsion of this third intervies, he again

OSHALD visited Merico City, wiare he sisited both

-tra Guoan and soviet diptomatic estasisirents,

and contactad a vice consul do the laster uno was

i-7005 a #63 ayer. I

(V. 4)

Comment:

It is believed that the Soviet official with whom OSWALD

dealt in Mexico City was Consular Attache Valeriy Vladimirovich

KOSTIKOV, born in Moscow, 17 March 1933.

In his letter of 9 November 1963 I0 the Soviet Consulate

in Hashington, OSNALD wore about "his noetings with Conrado KOSTIV

•(sic) of the Soviot Union in Moxico City, Mexicol, There is no

offieial-of the Soviet Embassy In Mexico with a nane resembltig.

"HOSTINe, other than COnsul KOSTIKOY.

KOSTIKOV was the sentor officer of five Soviet Consular

Tepresentatives who dealt with visas and related matters. There

is firm evidence for the conclusion that KOSTIKOV is a Soviet State

Security (KGB) officer, and the other four Consular officers were

also known or strongly suspected to be Soviet State Security

parsonnel serving under official cover.

It must be clearly stated that Soviet intelligence and

security officers placed abroad under official cover normally are

required to perform the routine and legitimate business demanded by.

the cover job in an embassy or consulate.

KOSTIKOV was first spotted as a KGB nan because of his

travels around Mexico, his habitual association wich known KGB

_officers, and because consuls, in sakiot practice, are usually KGB

nett

An-intensive review of the files of our Mexico City Station

-was undertaken inmediately after the assassination to comb out any

previously unreported information about KOSTIXOV's activity. No use-

a on. one

---

## Page 27

14-00000

ful new information bearing upon che assassination resulted frca

this effore.

A close observation was maintained on the Soviet personnel,

KOSTIKOV in particular, for days after 22 November. Nothing unusual

or out-of-pattern was noted in the activity or movements of the

Soviet personnel.

(From a negorandum, dated, 31 January 1964, passed I0 la Lee RAVIN

of the Warren Commission. See X112-22594 (509-803)}

It is also passiblo that OSHALD nay havo spoken to one

other Soviet officor, Consul-Pavel intonorict YATSKOK. The following

remarks vere attributed to YATSKOY in Mexico City regarding Lee

Harvey ositati:

-"I met OSWALD here. de stormed into my office

and wanted me to introduce and recommend him to the

He told me that he had lived in the USSR.

I told him that I would nave to check safore I could

recommend him.

He was nervous and his hands trem

blede and he starmed ant of my office.

I don't

believe that a person as nervous as OSHALD, whose

hands trambled could ique acouratoly fired a riflo,"

QuI Mexican Station chocked its records for the period OSWALD vas

In Mexico City and advised it was quite possible that OSNALD thougirt

he had talked with Valeriy KOSTIKOV when he. actually had spoken to

YArSKOv, or that he first spoke to XOSTIKOV who turned hin over to

his superior YATSKOV.

Nemorandum for J. Lee RANKIN, dated 2 July 1964, from Richard HEL'IS]

According to a nemorandum dated 23 May 1975, "There is

no increment of credible evidence, applying this phrase strictly,

of soviet and/or Cuban political, intelligence or security service

involvemant in the assassination to what was developed and consi

dered by the Warren Commission anc its staff. The Commission's jind-

ing that lee Barvey OSwAlD was the killer of President Kennedy and

Officer TIPPIT and did them in alone and of his own determination

standa.

"'Credible evidence' that would spant or significantly

modify thia judgement did land doest not anist in Hastington But

such evidence could artet in Mosco inator Herana, those votustary

Imputa to the Marren Commission were minimal in quatity and quality,

=*174.4

---

## Page 28

14-00000

desigred so cover up any admiasiona of inouledge of, or connection

with, OsHALD unieh might be related directly or indiracly with ine

assassination. Therefore, the belief that there was Soviet and/or

Cuban (KGB and/or DoIl connection with OSHALD will persist and grow

until there has been e full disclosure by these governments of ail

elements of OSHilD's handling and stay in the Soviet Union and its

contacts in Merico City. The Warren Commission report should have

left a wider window' for this contingency, That, indeeds has the

opinion at the werking lavel, particularly in the countarintelliçeroe

component in tha CIA in lIEd. 10 Was indicated by lA ISLUS innio.

tootimary bofore the herren commiesion, ClA vouta continas to regard.

this aspest of the OsWALD case us still open. (Investigation of the

_ Assassination of President Johr F. Kehnedy. Headrings Before the

President's Commission on the As5a55ihation of President Kennedy

. (Washington, 1964), Vol. V., pp. 120-129. See especially p. 124 -

"Mr. HELMS: 'Yes. I would assume the case could never be closed.'"

[Memorandum for DC/OPS, dated 23 May 1975 from Raymond G. Rocca;

Subject: Review of Selected Items in the Lee Harvey OSWALD file Re-

garding Allegations of the CASTRO Cuban Involvement in the John F.

KENNEDY Assassination.]

1356. 02-791

---

## Page 29

14-00000

"Shotrly after this meeting with AMLASH, CASTRO

issueda public warhing reported prominently in

tie ü.S. press abour ünited Siaies' resting vich

terrorists who wished to ellainase Cuban leaders,

He threatened that Cuba would answer in kind."

On Saturday evening, Y Septenber 1963, Fidel CASTRO ap-

peared at a Brazilian Embassy reception in Havana; even more un-

usual, CASTRO submitted to an informal interview by the Associated

Press correspondent, Daniel HARKER.

HARKER's interview reached New York on Sunday, & Septem•

ber, and was in print throughout the country on Monday, I Septem-

ber. There can be no question from the facts surrounding the

CASTRO appearance, which had not been expected, and his agreamont

to the interuiet, that this event represented a moro-than ordinary

attempt to get a message on the record in the United States.

CISTRO's statements to HARKER covered a range of toptes

but dealt prinespalty with American political leadership, in parti.

eular President KENNeDY, whom he excoriated in extraordinarily pro:

vocative fasition.

The interview also contained an uncomplimentary reference

to Senator GOLDWATER and Cuban delay in signing the limited nuclear

test ban. There were differences in the replay by United States

newspapers like the New York Times and Nashington papers, with a

result that CATSRO's "message" was significantly modulated.

In New Orleans, where Lee Harvey OSWALD resided until the

middle of September 1963, the HARKER story appeared in the principal

morning paper, the Times-Picayune, on Monday, 9 September, page I,

under a three-column headline: "CASTRO 3lasts Raids on Cuba. Says

Leaders Imperiled by Aid to Rebels"'. The story fallowed under the

HARKER by-line:

"Havana (AP) = Rrime Minister Fidel CASTRO

said Saturday night: 'U.S. leaders would be in

dangor if they helped in any accept to do away

with leaders of Cuba'.

Bitterly denouncing what de called recent

U.S. prompted raids on Cuban territory, Castro

-Weare preapred to figh. them and answer

in kind. U.S. leaders should think that if they

are alding terroríst plans to ellainate Cuban

---

## Page 30

14-00000

leaders heche selves 111 nos be a taie

entering a nore peaceful cilhate a few days

220e 3ur not this troni has cranzed disa

"The Us is always penty to negotiato

and make promises which later it will not

This has sappened to promises mace

during the October crisis.

They have broken

as can de seen stir per satacks.

"'But I warn this is leading to a very

dangerous situation that could reaù to a worse

crisis than October's . . .

The Yew York Times, in its coverage on 9 September, used

a UPI Wire service report which omitted any reference to the warning:

and threat which gave the interview its real significance. The

Washingion Past did an abbreviated reFito (@ September, page A 7)

which, sinilarly, onitted any reforence to the main thrust of

CASTRO's remarks,. The Erening Star of Hashington, D. C., printed

the HARKER-story nearly in its entirety in the second section of

the paper (9 September 1905, page B-4) and reworded the content of

The HARKER interview, placing the emphasis on the political aspects

In particular, highlighting the GOLDWATER elements and burying

. CASTRO's warning to the United States leadership in the middle of

the piece.

There is no evidence in the files on the KEYNEDY assassi-

nation that this CATSRO interview was considered in following up

leads or in dealings wich the Warren Commission and its staff al-

though Mexico Station specifically directed Headquarters attention

to the AP story very shortly after the Dallas killing. More impor-

tant, the intervier appears to have been forgotten in the contem.

porary political consideration of relations wich CISIRa's cuba.

There is no evidence in the Agency records, either, that the Harren-

Commission staff itsolf pursued the implication of the CASTRO-in°

torrier in dealing with the conspiracy hypothesis. There i5 no

evidence in the files that anything along these lines was stated

by any other Cuban leader before the assassination.

CASTRO'S warning and threat of 7 September 1963 - if

OSWALD did indeed read it in New Orleans - must be considered of

great significance in the light of the pathological evolution of

---

## Page 31

14-00000

OSNALD's passive/aggressive make-up after his attemot to kill

Genera: "ALKER early ia jorii 1365 and his identification wie Fidel

CASTRO and the Cuban Revolution which is directly traceable as far

back as his Marine Corps service in El Toro, California. CASTRO's

warning and threate given to AP correspondent HARKER, irrespective

of whether there was any fornal mandate, or even security serkice

contact with OScALD by the cubans or the Russians a was an act of

singular Irresponsibility and under no cireunstances was excusable

as retorsion for what the Cuban emigres were doing during the

-summer of 1963.

sive tire

---

## Page 32

14-00000

discussion of investigative deficiencies and the

failure of Anerican intelligence agencies to in-

form the varren Conmission of certain informatic.

does not lead to the conclusion that there was a

conspiracy to assass irat prettient tonedy.

stastead, this Report

• places particular

emphasis on the effect their Cuban operations

seened to have on the Investigazion.

"The Report details these operations to illustrate

why they were relevant to the investigation

the CIA operation involving a high-level Cuban of-

ficiale code-naned A'LISH, is described in order

to illustrate why that operation, and its possible

ramifications, should have been exarined as-part of

the assassination investigation."

(80z, in the middle of building its argument, the conmittee states

- that "However, the Conmittee cautions that it has seen no evidence

= that-Fidel: CASTRO or others in the Cuban government Plotted Pres i-

dent Kennedy's assassination in tetaltation for U. S. operations

against Cuba.")

---

## Page 33

"The Committee did not atcempt to duplicate che

sork.afthejar.en.Conzission.Iedid.10r.revieu

the findings and conclusions of the Warren Conni-

ssion It did rot Ie-crazine the physical evi

dence which the Warren Commission had."

Comment: This adnission is astounding, parsicularly by a senate

Comrittee reportedly inrestigating the assassination of Prosident

John F. tennedy, The rewark is obvioust not quite correct, for

the Committee Hust have tead the Report for they refer to it from

time to tine; however, they probably did not read the supporting

documents.

---

## Page 34

----=

--

(4) Identify and describe the records with regard to this

activisy.

The material relating to Lee Harvey OSWALD (internal

Agency documents, reports to and fron other government agencies

and departments, correspondence with the Warren Commission, etc.)

• is held in the Agency's official file on OSWALD. The offirial

• file no. 201-289248 is held by the CI Staff and comprises $7 .

volumes, 1.e., well over 200 separate file folders

and envelopes.

In addition to the official file, there are ancillary files

covering various aspects of the investigation and later develop-

ments - FOIA requests for information, documents (copies) cleared

for release in response to such requests, the Rockefeller Com- .

mission, etc.

A machine index of the material held in the official file.

reaches a total of 1829 doeuments or entries. There is some

duplication and ommissions. It is not possible to tell from

the machine index the subject of many of the documents, particu-

larly cables, nor is it possible to ascertain the origin.of

many of the documents appearing under those entries marked

XAA-.

See the attached list of files and folders reviewed to "

$060.

---

## Page 35

14-00000

....

...

...

Components of Official File on Lee Harvey OSWALD

1.

2:

3.

4.

5.

6.

Vol. 1

Part 1, undated through 31.10.63

Vol. 1

Part 2, 1.11 - 25.11.63

Vol. 1

TX-1855, undated

Vol. 1

WX-7241, undated

Vol. 1

XAAZ-35909, undated

Vol. 2

26.11.63

Vol. 2

TX-1891, 26.11.63

Vol. 3

Part 1, 27.11 - 28.11.63

9.

Vol. 3

Part 2, 29.11 - 30.11.63

10. Vol. 3

Part 3, 1,12 - 2.12.63

11. Vol. 3 DBA-63710, 30.11.63

12. Vol. 3

DBA-63711, 2.12.63

13. Vol. 4

3.12.63

14. Vol. 5

4.12 • 7.12.63

•15. Vol. 5 XAAZ-35716, 6.12.63 Part 1

16. Vol. 5 XAAZ-35716, 1.12.63 Part 2

17. Vol. 6

8.12 - 9.12.63

:18. Vol. 6

DBA-16200, 8.12.63

19. Vol. 7

10.12.63

20. Vol. 8

10.12.63

21. Vol. 8 DBB-11140, 10.12.63

22.

Vol, 9 10.12.63

23.

Vol. 10 11.12 - 20.12.63

24. Vol. 10 XAAZ-27165, 20.12.63

25.

Vol. 11

20.12.63

26. Vol. 12

20.12.63

27.

Vol. 13

20.12.63

28.

Vol. 14

23.12.63

•29.

Vol. 15

23.12.63

•30.

Vol. 16

23.12.63

.•..

+.. 400.00...

---

## Page 36

31. Vol. 16 DBB-15706, 23.12.63

320.

Vol. 17 23.12 - 31.12.65

33.

Vol. 17 XAAZ-35713, 31.12.63

34.

Vol. 18 1.1.64

35. Vol. 18 DBB-11126, 1.1.64

36.

Vol. 19 2.1 - 6.1.64

37. Vol. 20 7.1.64

38. Vol. 21

7.1.64

39. Vol. 22 7.1 - 22.1.64

40. Vol. 22 XAAZ-22407, 21.1.64

41. Vol. 23 22.1.64

42. Vol. 24 23.1 - 10.2.64

43.

Vol. 24 XAAZ-22409, 25.1.64

44. Vol. 24 XAAZ 22409, 25.1.64

45. Vol. 24 XAAZ-22410, 25.1.64

46. Vol. 24 XAAZ-224I1, 5.2.64

47i Vol. 24 XAAZ-22412, 5.2.64

48. Vol. 24 XAAZ-22413, 8.2.64

49. Vol. 24 XAAZ-35908, 2.64

50. Vol. 25 11.2.64

51. Vol. 26 12.2. - 24.2.64

52. Vol. 26 XAAZ 22408

, 22.1.64

53.. Vol. 27 25.2.64 - 9.3.64

54. Vol. 27 XAAZ-22414, 28.2.64

55. Vol. 27 XAAZ-22415, 28.2.64

56.

Vol. 27 XAAZ-22595, 6.3.64

57.

Vol. 28 10.3.64

58.

Vol. 29

10.3.64

59.

Vol. 30

11.3 - 13.3.64

60.

Vol. 31

26.3.64

..-

---

## Page 37

.

• 3..

61. Vol. 31 XAAZ-22450, 17.3.67

62. Vo1.32 25.3-31.3.64

63. Vol. 32 XAAZ 22416, 26.3.643

•64. Vol. 33 1.4 - 7.4.64

•65. Vol. 33 XAAZ-22417, 6.4.64

•66. Vol. 34

8.4 - 20.4.64

.67. Vol. 35

21.4 - 30.4.64

68. Vol. 35 XAAZ-22418, 21.4.64

.69. Vol. 35 XAAZ-22419, 24.4.64

:70. Vol. 35 XAAZ-22420, 29.4.64

:71. Vol. 36

1.5 - 11.5.64

:72. Vol. 36 EX-10877, 5.5.64

73. Vol. 36 XAAZ-22421, 6.5.64

74. Vol. 36 XAAZ-22422, 8.5.64

•75. Vol. 37 12.5 - 18.5.64

76. Vol. 37 XAAZ-35714, 15.5.64

77. Vol. 38 19.5 - 27.5.64

:78. Vol. 38 XAAZ-35610, 21.5.64

:79. Vol. 38 XAAZ-35827, 20.5.64

80. Vol. 38 XAAZ-27210, 21.5.64

81. Vol. 39

28.5.64

82. Vol. 40 28.5.64

83. Vol. 41 28.5.64

84. Vol. 42 28.5.64

85.

Vo1. 43 29.5 - 1.7.64

86.

Vol. 43 XAAZ-22423, 3.6.64

87.

Vo1. 44 2.7.64

•88.

Vol. 45 2.7.64

89. Vol. 46

3.7 = 11.8.64

•90.

Vol. 46 XAAZ-22425, 22.%.6#

---

## Page 38

14-00000

" Ge

-91. Vol. 46 XAAZ-22427, 31.7.64

--92•

Vol. 47 5.8.64

-_ 93..

Volo 48. .6.8 = 31.8.64

.94.

Vol. 48

XAAZ-22428, 7.8.64

.95.

Vol. 48

XAAZ-22429, 29.8.68

.96.

Vol. 49

1.9 - 18.9.64

.97.

Vol.

49

XAAZ-22430, 9.9.64

.98.

Vol. 49

XAAZ-22431, 10.9.64

99.

Vol. 49

XAAZ-22432, 10.9.64

100.

Vol.

49

XAZ: 28433, 10.9.64

101.

Vol. 49

XAAZ-22434, 10.9.64

102.

• 50

Vol.

49

XAAZ-22435, 10.9.64

103. Vol. 49 XAAZ-22436, 10.9.64

104.

Vol. 49 XAAZ-22437, 11.9.64

105.

Vol. 49

XAAZ-22438, 11.9.64

106.

Vol. 49

XAAZ-22439, 11.9.64

107.

Vol. 49

XAAZ-22440, 11.9.64

-..

108.

Vol. 49 XAAZ-22441, 18.9.64

109.

Vol. 49

ХЛAZ-22442, 18.9.64

110.

Vol. 49

XAAZ-22443, 18.9.64

11i.

Vol. 49

XAAZ-22444, 18.9.64

112.

Vol. 50 19.9.64

113.

Voi. 51 21.9. - 25.11.64

114. VO1. 51 XAAZ-22944, 22.10.64 (Press reaction to Narren

Commission Report]

115. Vol: Sä 2T.11 - 31.12.64

sus • 00

116. Vol. 52 XAAZ-22598, 25.11.64 ("Unidentified Individual" -

- Incomplete]

117. Vo1. 52 XAAZ-35722, 12.64 (Master List of Warren Commission

• correspondence and exhibits] (Unclassified)

118.

Vo1. 52. XAAZ-35723, 12.64 [Narren Connission Log Bookl • •

(Unclassified)

19 €

Vol. 53 1.65 - 5.66

---

## Page 39

14-00000

120. Vol. 53 XAAZ-22419, 5.5.05 (State Department file) - -

121. Nol. 53 X4l5-22149, 5.5.65 1131 Investigation Report and

• Exhibits)

122. Vol. 55 XAAZ-22$51, 5.5.65 (Copies of FBI documents,

Items 1-40]

123. VO1. 53 XAAZ-22452, 5.5.65 (Copies of FBI documents,-..

10. .

• Iteas 41-181]

124.

. Vol. 53 XAAZ-22452, 5.5.65 (Part 1 - duplicate]

125. Vol. 53 XAAZ-22452, 5.5.65 (Part 2 - duplicate]

126.. Vol. 53 XAAZ-22453, 5.5.65 (Copies of. FBI documents, -

_Items 182-187]

127. VoI. 53_XAAZ-22454, 5.5.65 [News clippings].

128. -

Vol.

53 XAAZ-22943, 23.3.65 (Part. 1, News clippings)

129...

Vole

53

XIAZ 22943, 23.3.65_(Part 2, News clippings].

130.

Vol. 53

XAAZ-27164, 2.2.65 (DDP's file on Warren Connis-

sion]

-

131.

Vol. 53

SX-24316,

2.8.65 (SE Division soft file]

132.

Vol. 54

6.66 - 4.67

133.

Vol. 54

DCE -18035, 30.7.65 (Part 1]

134.

Vol. 54

DCE-18035, 30.7.65 [Part 2]

135.

Vol.

DCE-18035, 30.7.65 [Part 3)

136.

Vol.

55

1.5.67 - 10.67

137. Vol. 55

XAAZ-22560, 10.7.67

138. Vol. 55

XAAZ-35715, 19.5.67

139. Vol. 56 1.11.67 - 30.12.71

i40.

Vol. 56

TX-1942,

15.3.68

141.

Vol. 56 XAAZ-27163, 17.11.67

142.

Vol. 57. 1.1.72 =

---

## Page 40

114-00000

ADDITIONAL FILES:

Title

HTLINGUAL Memoranda SIG 568

HTLINGUAL (clippings, etc.)

OSWALD, SIG 568

CI Special Project

Record of Action - Marren Conmission

SIG 950

No. of vols.

2

1

4

1

-1.

DDP's File [Correspondence to and from

Warren

Commission] (duplicate)

1

Rocca's files. (prinel)

NOSENKO handling

Dealings with Warren Commission ---

1..

HOCH Letter

2

CASTRO Interview, ? September 1963

----

1

Mexico Chrono Record

1

Unidentified Individual Report

Unnamed file

1

2

Rockefeller Commission; notes re-

garding Warren Commission

Mexico City Station Files

6

- --.

a statis live (Rocca-Mainen).

- _ 3.

Master File Released Documents

(FOIA)

...-lst series (released

2/3 1975)-

File

(copies) of Released Documents

(FOIA)

Second Series

Released September 1976

10

---

## Page 41

(1) What Collection requirements were issued to the field with

renard to Kennedy's assassination?

As soon as the name of Lee OSiALD was sentioned in connection

with the assassination of President Kennedy on 22 November. CIA

file checks were begun and the Nexico City Station was asked by

cable for more information on OSWALD. Within a week. twenty-seven

cabled reports had. been sent to the White House, the Department of

State, and the Federal Bureau of Investigation.

CIA field stations provided bizs of information during the

week after the assassination. The Mexico city Station fevrewed the

a-="

trangeripts of tes telephone taps and came up vitt several nore

conversations peasay involving oilin, but not scents bonion

ins hin by name, these transcripts connected him also te the Cuban

Consulate in Mexico City. Several Mexicans were arrested and

questioned about his activities, giving a good picture Of what he

was really up to.. A host of fabricators, some anonymous, bonbarded

overseas embassies with spurious tips on the case. All of these a

Leads were soon discredited, but they were still coming in.

In light of oswAlls defection to the Soviet Union where he

Had rematued for ahrost three years and his trip to Mexico cry

where he trad contact with members of the cabar and soviet comin

sulates, the possibility that OSWAlD had not seted upon his out.

but nay have been an agent in 1 plat under foreign direction could

not be dismissed kirhout exhaustive exploitation af all available

foreign assets.

As the Agency responsible for the collection of foreign coun

terintelligence information, it.was the Agency's responsibility

to support the Federal Bureau of Investigation in its'investigation.

of the President's assassination by.

- a. Obtaining detailed information on every aspect of OSVALD's

activities and zovements

abroad;

bo. Studying this information in light of the Agency's know-

ledge of the mission and operations of foreign intelligence

services particularly the Cuban and Soviet services, and

---

## Page 42

c.. Making avallable to the FBl and other appropriate gover"-

ment agencies and deparements, all information obtained on

OSWALD of pertaining to his contacts wich Cuban and Sovier

officials and organizations abroad.

set out belou are those actions taken by the Agency arter

Jearning the identity.of the assassin and during the weeks imiedi

atolyfollowing. cha Prosidone's coath

Specific Action Taken by the Agency

On the same day as the assassination, 22 Novenber 1965, The

Deputy Director, Plans, Richard Hells, some a caute book ware?

to at1-Ght Stations Borond,

_HELMS stated that the "erogie de

-299804

af President Kennedy requires all of us to look sharp for any una

16=2-7"

usual intelligence developments. Although we have no reason to

expect anything of a particular military nature, 'all hands should

be on the quick alert at least for the next few days while the new

President takes over.".

DIR 84608).-

On 22 November, the Chief of WH/So in response to an earlier

cable from Mexico City in which the latter directed Headquarters"

attention to previous traffic relating to Lee Harvey OSWALD MEXT-

1014 (HY 06781), 22 Yovember 19631, asted the Station to futtow and

report on soviet Embassy activity and reaction during these hourse

(DIR 84902}

On 23 November, CI Staff requested the Mexico City Station re

revier all audie tapes and transcripts since 27 September to lecate

naterial possibly pertinent to OSWALD. (DIR 84886. in reference to

MEXI-6453 (IN 36017), 9 October 1963.]

782409.

On the sane day, Chief, WH/3, asked Mexico City Station to

cable verbatim transcripts in English of all OSWALD intercepts and

other material relating to hin.

(DIR 8491+)

'On 24 November, Chief, #H/3, asked the Mexico. City"Station's.

opinion as to why OSWALD was in Mexico in September-October 1963.

[DIR 84920]

On 25 November: Chief, iH/3, asked Mexico City Starlon to

aside ai

---

## Page 43

14-00000

2. 10 .

cable a subary of all the Station's infornation relating to Silvlay

• DURAN Mexican enployee of the Cuban Consulate, Mexico Ciey). •

(DIR 84925]

On the same day, Chief, NH/3, asked the Mexico City Station

for any information indicating tha: iS.rald may nave entered lexico

at any time other than during the period 26 Septemter to 5. October.

(DIR 81938)

Or 26 Novenber 1963, Headquarters sent a prierity cable te

Brussels

¿ London, Madrid

Ottawa,

Paris, Rome, and The Hague requesting station and liaison traces on

Lee Harvey. OSWALD. (DIR 85133]

Ow -28 November 1963, Chief, WH/3, stressed in a cable to the

Mexico City_ Station that "there should be no let down in your ef-

, fort if follow all leads and investigate all facts which bear on

this case. He have by no means excluded the possibility that

• dope.

other as yet urknown persons nay have been involved of even that

other powers nay have played a rolai chief is added the reques

"Please continue all your coverage of Soviet and Cuban installa-

tions and your Taisor with Mexicans.* (DIR 856551

On 29 Novenber, Headquarters forwarded a book cable to

London,

and The Hague, which included

12082:

---

## Page 44

-.

-:

-

----

-..

-....

нами н

---

a synopsis for COS background briefings to assist in the evalua-

tion of any operational leads generated by the investigation.

(DIR 85817)

- ... A second cable was sent out on the same day_to Frankfurt

and The Hague asking for evidence of travel of Lee OSWALD and his

Russian-born wife during their return to the United States during

May and June 1962. [DIR 85973]

On 2 December, headquarters sent a priority cable to Ber-

lin, Bonn, Frankfust, and The Hague asking for confirmatory infor

mation relating to the travel of OSWALD, his wife, and oldest

child on their return from the Soviet Union (in 1962) to the

United States. (DIR 86077) •

On 12 December 1963, Chief, WH/3, asked Mexico City Sta-

tion to continue to watch for Soviet and Cuban reaction to tir

investigation of the President's assassination, evidence of their

complicity, and signs that they were putting out propaganda about

- the case. Mention was made that Soviet intelligence officers in

.. India had letters sent to American leaders demanding a full in- ..

vestigation of the assassination. (DIR 88680]

---

## Page 45

• (2) What follow-up of these requirements was there during 1964?-

"(3) What form did the follow-us take?"

=The initial responsé to headquarters' requirements levied

on the field, after the assassination of the President, has been •

treated under Question (1) abore. As this inforation was received!

in Headquarters it was conpared with existing information, is any,

synthesized, analyzed, and then nade available to the white House,

the Departuent of State, and the Federal Bureau of Investigation.

Copies of these dessimentations Were also forvarded to the Secret

Service.

Heados

uarterS

canined all nei leads sent in by the éield, at

•fering guidance

and, when necessary, coordinating with the appro-

priate United States government agency Pinarily the fBi = when.

the investigation involved an American citisen. Most, If not ali,

leads öriginating in the field were persons claining to have now-

ledge of oswale his wife. Investigation revealed that the

majority of these leads, vere fabricators.

In Lighe of the urgency of the investigation being conducted

by the fit, all correspondence between Agency Headquarters and tes

field inits was in cable forn Is necessary, gossages could bo

passed by telephone."

Agency field representatives in the lexico City Station ind

the Miland Base sarked closely vith the Lecal EBl representative

keeping the latter continually apprised of all information pertain-

Ing to the invescigacion as it becane avalíable, a cia seasian.

The Mexico City Station and Miani Base were able to respond immedi

ately to requirements levied by the local FBI representative:. The

field reported to Headquarters on all information passed in the

field to the FBI-OT-received from the FBI representative so that

Headquarters could make a formal dissemination to the appropriate

government agency of department in Washington.

---

## Page 46

• 4. B

-" 14

(5) What reporting was there from the field in response to Head-

guarters' requirements?

SECTION I

Responses to the cables listed under Question (1) above are

given below under each cable.

DIR 84608, 22 November 1963

Response:

on 23 November the London Station stated that Head-

quarters' alert had been passed to the

and

The latter

cold our London Station it was alerting:

Its field stacions. (LOND-6058 (IN 67061))

foament. This response was the only one which

specificatia

nade reference ta DIR s1608; homever, the later

cable undoubtedl

sparked Headquarters conponents, Headquarters personnel on TDY.

no 020929

abroad, and field units to react immediately. Examples are to be

found in a separate section to this question.

ĐIR 81986. 23 Vovember 1963

-99-38

Response: Mexico City station sent three

cables en 23 Joven

ber contamine the texes of seven teiephone calls belteved to be

•..=.

relative to OSWALD. (Later it was determined that two of the

telephone calls believed to have been made by OSWALD had been

made by some other unidentified person.). (MEXI-7023 (IN 67108)

MEXI-7025 (IN 67198), and MEXI 7033 (IN 67232). 1

DIR 91911, 23 Vovember I963

Responsei The three cables cited above may be considered as

a response to this cable.

Sp.

DIR 84920, 27 Novenber 1963

28:36

Response: The only/source of information on the reasons for

OstALD's trip to Mexico city vas silvia DURAY, a Mexican employee

of the Cuban Consulate, sio vas detained on 23 Vovember and ques

tioned by Mexican authorities from 23 so 25 November Merica Cisy

Stacion bad already alerted Headquarters ?a DURAY's arrest and had

forwarded infarmation in several cables, rareicularly vest-tans

Headstat

---

## Page 47

-.=.:.

• on 24 November 1963. Mexico City responded to DIR 94920 with

MEXI-705$ on 24 November 1963. This cable contained, addizions

of arendments to NEXI-7046. (In addition to infornation obzuired

fros Silvia DURAN contained in her file, see also the revion of

selected iens in the Lee Harvey OSWALD file regarding allegations

D? tre cAstRo Caban Invotrement ir tie John. tenedy assassina

tion, dated 7348y-1975-)

DIR 84926, 25 November 1963

Response:. Mexico City Station cabled all Station held infor-

mation regardIng SIlVia DURAY In MEXI-TOoS.

DIR 84938, 25 November 1963

Fanca:

DIR 35133, 26 November 1965

"On zi November,

reported on OSWAlDy presence in

from 10 to 1s Detober 1959

299 (IN 68739)}

bi: On 27 November, Rome reported en Statica traces: liaison

traces were to folloi. TROME-1233 (IN 68802)J

18935:5-200

---

## Page 48

!

-.

...

e. On 27 November, Ottawa reported no traces in Station

or liaison files. [OTTA 1275 (IN 69005)]

d. On 27 November,

forwarded a negative report

3469 (IN 69011))

e. On 27 November, London Station reported that the "Traf-

fic Index" showed that OSWALD had arrived in Southampton on 9

October 1959; he left the following day by air for Helsinki.

(LOND 6097 (IN 69100)]

f. On 27 November, Ottawa Station sent a second cable con-

taining information on the initial reaction of the Cuban Ambassa-

dor CRUZ and his staff to the report of the assassination. "After

further information was received (by the Cubans) that OSWALD had

connections with the Fair Play for Cuba Connittee, there was some

apprehension concerning !ossible United States reaction.

[OTTA 1277 (IN 69233))

g. On 27 November,

Station cabled a response that .

there were no traces on OSWALD in Station or liaison files.

4490 (IN 69290)]

h. On 28 NOvenber, the Madrid Station replied that

there

was no information in Station or liaison files. (MADR 9789 (IN

69328)]

1. On 29 November, the Brussels Station stated there were

no traces on OSWALD. (BRUS 8739 (IN 69852)1

j. On 29 November, the Rome Station reported no liaison

traces on OSWALD. (ROME 1258 (IN 70111)]

k. On 5 December, the Paris Station reported that Station

and liaison traces were negative. [PARI 1770 (IN 74234)]

1. On 10 December, the Paris Station reported that the —

French press was giving sensational coverage to the possibility

that the assassination was "a many-angled plot". (PARI 1853 (IN

77148))

BIR 85817, 29 November 1963

DIR 85973, 29 November 1963

---

## Page 49

DIR 86077, 2 December 1963

a. On & December, the Bonr 3a5e forra-ded inforiation regar-

ding Marina OSNALD's entry into Germany at Helastedt on 3 June 1962:

She left Germany the same day at Benthein. Martha OSivALD was tra-

eting on a test German visa 70, 899102, Issued by the Nest German

Embassy in Moscow, fBO: +4 5579-614-7333871 fergies of the documents

referring ta Marina ostall vere farrarded to liedquarters as an vee

tachment to EGNT-1400, 9 December 1963.

_b. On 6 December, the funich Base cabled a negative reply.

(MUNI- 8316 (IN 75065)]

C. On 4 December, The Hague Station cabled Information that

Marina) OSWALD entered the Netherlands on 3 June 1962 at the Old-

jenzal border point:

CHAGU - 5110 CTN 73378)1

and pie

a. On 9 December, the Stutgart Base replied that the Base

ad no confirmatory information relating to oswAld's travel. Istur

S515 (IN 76758)}

-SECTION II

In addition to specific action taken by the Agency as given

above, Headquarters components, Headquartars persomel on foX, and

field units reacyed as shown bejow..

^. On 22 November, Noxico Gity Station directod Headquartars

attention ta previous traffic relating to Lee Harvey OSWALD and

asked for a photograph of OSWALD in order to compare it with avail-

able photographs in the Station which might be of the assassin. "The

Station indicated that it was forwarding as soon as possible copies

lof a photograph of the only visitor to the soviet Embassy on 28 (sic

- 1) October who could (might] by identical with OSWALD. [MEXI-

7014 (IN 66781)]

A subsequent cable sent the same day from Mexico City indica.

ted that the Station had photographs of the sane unidentified Ameri

can (referred to in the above cable) who is possibly OSWALD entering

the Cuban Embassy on 15 October.. [EXI-7019 (1V 66846)1

b. On 22 November, the Agency's Stazion in Miami reported

---

## Page 50

that OSWALD of the Fair Play for Cuba Conmittee had participated in

¡ a debate in August 1963 on the lew Orleans radio station, NoSU.

OSWALD was a former Marine who had gone to Moscow in 1959 where he

renounced his American citizenship. [WWVE-8049 (IN 56782)] :

.C. On 23 Novenber, the Chief, SR/CI forwarded a memorandum

to the Assistant Deputy Director, Plans, In which the latter's atten

tion was drawn to the fact that OSWALD had been in contact on_ 28

Soptenber 1963 with Soviet Consul Valeriy VladiMiroViCh KOSTIKOV

According to current information available to SR/CI. KOSTIKOV was a

known KGB officer ard considred to be a member of the KGB's Thir

(sabotage and assassination)

teenth Department/of the First Chief Directorate." According to the

FBI Laison officer, the FBI had reason to believe that OSMALD's

visit was to got Soviet support for a United States

passport of visa

matter: Chief, SR/CI closed by saying that he had reported OSWALD'S

connections with a known member of the Thirteenth Pepartment to the

FBI liaison officer at 1030 hours on 25 November 1963.

Memorandum. for ADDP, 23 Movember 1963 (file nO. SX 25550)].

:.;:

di Or 23 November, the sexico City Station forwarded to Head.

quarters the names of three persons who had flown from Mexico, to the

United States, during the first twelve days of November, who might.-

have been identical with Lee Harvey. OSWALD. [MEXI-7020 (IN 66891)]

e. On 24 November, the Mexico City Station reported to Head-

quarters that the United States Consulate in Nuevo Laredo had

infor-

mation that OSWALD had entered Mexico at Vuevo Laredo on 26 Septem-

ber traveling on Mexican Tourist Card no. 21085 and had left Mexico

by auto (sic] on 3 October 1963 at Vuevo Laredo: [MEXI-7040-(IN

67261)1 - C:

1. On 24 lovember, the Chief, SR/CI, forwarded a memorandum

to the Assistant bepauty Director, Plans, ly which he quoted a cable

sent by chiet, se dirtston, who was, at that thee, i frankers

The fatter asked the question if OSHALd was not anwittingi or

wittingly a part of a plor to murder the president in Dallas as an

attempt ta exacerbare furcher sectional strife and render the United

States Government less capable of dealing with souter intelatives.

pain is

---

## Page 51

over the next year. The Chief of SR continued-by suggesting that

if MELADLE'S (Anatoliy Mishaylovich GOLITSY!) views on (Harold)

WILSOY and the information noted in paragraph lc below have any

substarce (and they cannot be ignored), this suggests that we can

expect major Soviet pressures over the next several months, for:

which the soviets have mate careful, lon-targe preparations.

Paragraph-hai .

"Within minutes of the first news, Mascou radio

: 4.

statements as heard in London attributed the assassina-

tion to 'right-wing elenents". Only as the true iden-

tity of the believed assassin becane known did Moscow

begin to complain that United States reactionaries

'were using OSWALD, as a pawn."

Paragraph lb:

-Should not the assignment of Ista Departent officers

to the KGB Residency in the uhited Nations in Yew York:

Do considorod in a new light?"

•Paragraph ici

-"I discovered from

during our

. long and exceptionally valuable discussions, that

one of Harold XILSON's principal scientific advisers

:1s

This may shed new light on AELADLE'$

report, j.e., that Harold WILSOY day be a Soviet agent."

Chief, SR/CI, pointed out that the SR Chief's connents come

without benefit of traces passed earlier to the ADDP sowing that

OSWALD had contact with a 13th Department representative in Mexico-

City. Chief, SK/CI, ended by indicating thai another recently ar-.

rived cable suggests that oswALd's business with the Soviet. Consul

was connected with his owe vist to the usk and cuba and maye are

therefore, have been !: innocent. (Memorandar for ADP!

21 November 1963 (Filo 10, 5X-25593)}

s. on 28 Vavenber, ise Agency is scarion In Miami reparted

InfaTuation receiked fron the local FBI representative: The later

---

## Page 52

ad received' a request from his Headquarters to ascertain the vera-,

city, including sources, of a statement made by DRE leader, Jose":

LLANUSA Gobel, to the effect chat Fidel CASTRO had threatened lives

pt United States leaders in the event of United States aggression

agatist caba. ILyusA atruttuted the above tireats to tidel castro

Who made these remarks during-a reception in early september 1963.

At the Brazilian Embassy in Havana. FYAVE-8133 (IN 67394)|

• h..

_ On 25 November 1963, the Mexico City Station also called

Headquarters! attention to an AP story datelined Havana, Y September

1963.

At a reception held at the Brazilian Embassy, CASTRO is

quoted as haveing. said: "Ve are prepared to fight them and answer

in kind.

United States leaders shouldthink [sic consider?) that

-If they are aiding terrorists plans to eleminate the Cuban leaders

they thenselves will not be safe:"

TMEXT-7055 IN 67620T

sinistia

---

