# 104-10312-10013

## Page 1

104-10312-10013

L UNCLASSIFIED:

STERNAL

ISE ONLY S

ROUTING AND

FORD SHEET

PUIAL

PJ SECRET

SUBJECT. (Optional)

FROM:

Raÿmond G Rocca

C/CI/R&A

TO:: (Officer, designation, room number, and

building)

escils 316

09319-68

DATE IN

IS November 1968

¡DATE

RECEIVED

FORWARDED

RID/ Analysis

115 M88

Please file into(2012834822)

NOVEL, Gordon

Dware

RIDICOiS

TO.

A5A6

AB/K

13:

14

15:

FORM

3-62

610 USE PREMOUS

SECRET

D] CONFIDENTIAL

201. 834822

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

• UNGLASSIFIED

---

## Page 2

13-00000

0 COT 10eS

280c61968

MEMORANDUM

SUBJECT: Garrison and the Kennedy Assassination:

Gordon Dwane Novel

(201-834822)

Reference:

CI/R&A Memorandumn of 31 May 1967,

sunject as above

SUMMARY/Ke. Wiltery

At a meeting on 23 October 1968 the president of an answering

service, Misa

_ provided CLA representatives with

information about a client. Gordon Novel, who has received much

publicity in the course of the Garrison investigation. Novel told

Mise

that persong associated with Garrison and with Ramparte

Magazine had planned an article in which Novel would be linked to

the answering service:

and the service,

to CIA.

Central Cover Staff has used the firm'a services for fifteen years..

Novel told Miss

not to worry because he had let Garrison

and company know that

would sue if such a story

were printed, and the story had been killed. Mies

provided

additional information about Novel, who in the paet nas raisely implied

and even claimed association with CIA.

DETALS

1. At 1030 hours on 23 October 1968 Mrs.

of

Central Cover Staff (CCS) and the undersigned met by prearrangement

with Mias

founder and president of a Washington

answering service called

Miss

offices are at

N.W.

2.

Mist

Jhas been a contact of CCS for fifteen yeare.

Recorde checke run shortly before the meeting disclused no derogatory

information.

SE

it::

AIL

---

## Page 3

13-00000

3. The meeting had been requested because Miss|

had

told Mrs.

that Gordon Novel wae one of her clients and that

she had information about Novel which was of possible interest to

this Agency. Novel is a salesman of audio detection gear who has

been

prominently involved in the Garrison investigation and has

sought for obscure reasons to create the false impression that he id

employed by or associated with CLA.

* Throughout the meeting Miss

was conpletely

cooperative. She volunteered assistance and information, and she

responded nost helpfully to all requeste.

5. Novel became a client of

on 15 March

1968. His account remains active. His number at the answering

service is 296-6662. The sheet on which he listed the basic inforination

required bi

contains the following information:

Gordon Nove a presidont of International Dynamice

military and induatrial counter intrusion equipment", 518 1/2

G St. S.E:, Washington D.C., 20009. Novel leted the home

office of International Dynamics Corporation at 787 1/2

Harrison Ave., New Orleans, La., 486-5477.

Incline

b. His instructions to the service were as follows:

(1) Nature of and reason for calle were to be

ascertained.

(2) No information was to be given to anyone

calling for Ramparte or Playboy.

(3) Calle or inquiries from news media were to

be considered an emergency mattere and relayed to

ham immediately by collect call dr tolegram to (614)

267-4633. (Comment: A number in Columbus, Ohio.

See sub-paragraph e, below.)

c. He lioted hie cliente ae the U.S. government, foreign

governments, and industrial security representatives.

CRONET

---

## Page 4

13-00000

d. sHe listed anticipated callers as the following:

(1) Me. Willard Robertson. (Comment:

Robertson is a Volkswagen distributor for the

New Orleans area and a member of Truth and

Consequences .Inc., a private association of

Garrison supporters who have donated funds to

Garrison's office. An FBI report of 10 October

1967 stated that Robertson wanted another

businessman to file charges of theft or fraud

againet Novel in connection with a $2, 700 diamond

ring in order to get Novel in jail and "under the

floor". )

(2) Mi. Elmer Gertz. (Comment: No prior

record in Garrison case. Traces to be run.)

(3) Ms. Phillip Gabriel. (Comment: As above.)

(4) Ms. Walter Sheridan. (Comment: Has

appeared in prior reporte on thie subject. He is

an NBC Investigator who was associated earlier

with the deceased Senator Robert Kennedy. Sheridan

was a principal source of the information used in

NBC's anti-Garrison TV show of 19 June 1967, after

which Garrison charged Sheridan with bribery.)

•. Novel listed the following as an emergency contact:

Mrs. Abby Novel, 226 E. Oakland St., Columbue, Ohio.

(614) 267-4633. (Comment: Mies

believed that

Abby Novel ie Subject'a mother. The New Orleans

States-Item of 22 February 1968, however, referred to

Subject'e wife as Abby, nee Mulligan, a former Playboy

bunny.)

1.. As referenced in Washington Novel lieted a firm of

lawyere: Miller, McCarthy, Evans, and Cassidy at

1701 K St. He noted that he banks at Rigge National,

Dupont CIrcle.

3

---

## Page 5

13-00000

6. Novel told Miss

that he had been associated in

some way with Senator Robert Kennedy. (Comment: The reference

may have been to Walter Sheridan, Who served as an investigator

for Robert Kennedy when the latter was Attorney General.)

7. Novel asked Mis

whether she could inake

arrangemento for party or conference calle to pass from the

caller through the rented number in Washington to Novel's actual

location and then to record the calle in Waehington. She said no.

8. Novel listed hie own current address as 566 E. Main St..

Suite A, Columbus, Ohlo.

9. In mid-September 1968 Novel mentioned to Misa

that District Attorney Garricon is associated with a fnu Burnham

(no prior record in thie context, although Richard V. Burnes is an

assistant DA for Garridon), a fnu Roper (no prior record in thie

context), and William Turner (a staff writer for Ramparts who has

been closely associated with Garrioon and hie investigation). Novel

also told Miss

that he has a penetration of Garrison'e

office. (Comment: He han made thie claim earlier.) Through the

penetration he learned that he was to appear prominently in a

Ramparts article which would liat him as a client of

and would aleo list

as a cover or

front for ClA operations dealing with internal (1.e..

domestic)

affaira. Novel told Mies _

not to be concerned because he

had sent word back to Garrimon that if buch an article appeared.

would sue. He later learned that the idea of

publishine such an article had been dropped. He told this story to

Miss

with the air of one who had done her a favor. Miss

Marilley had the impression, however, that Novel himself did not

belleve the allegation about her firm and ClA.

10. Novel told Miss

that he le working on a real estate

deal involving a planned resort area in Michigan. It is noted that

two of the telephone calla liated below were from a fnu Cork or Corke

in the Bureau of Indian Affaira.

11. The following are the telephone calle liated by

Jas placed to Novel'e number:

---

## Page 6

13-00000*...

a.

On 30 Auguot 1968 Mr. Inu Gabriel, Sr., called

from New Orleans, 522-5075.

No further information.

(Presumably identical with the Phillip Gabriel of

paragraph d (3) above.)

...

b. 4 September 1908. As above.

c. 4 September 1968, from Amy Helmuth, Reno,

Nevada, 358-0331. No further information.

d. ? September 1968. Office of Mr. Cork. Bureau

of Indian Affairs, 343-5704. No additional information.

e. 5 September 1968. Caller, J.J. Harris, said that

there had been no word from London. No more information.

(Comment: One Jones Harste le an assistant of Richard H.

Popkin, a journalist who has made repeated trips to

New Orleana, who le atrongly pro Carrieos, and who wrote

a book called The Second Oawald. )

f. 5 September 1968. Call from Mr. Gabriel of

New Orleans.

g. 5 September 1968. Call from Mrs. fnu Hellman

of Reno, Nevada, asking M.. Novel to call Mrs. Francis.

h. 5 September 1968. Call from Mra. fnu Francis,

Reno, 358-0331.

1. 6 September 1968. Call from Mr. Gabriel, New Orleans.

j. 10 September 1968. Call from Mre. Francis, Reno,

Nevada..

k. 10 September 1968. To Amy Helmuth, Reno,

358-0331. She was to call Jo Capurro.

1. 11 September 1968. Call from Mr. Gabriel,

New Orleans, 522-5075.

m. 19 September 1968. Re a meeting with Mr. Cork.

Washington, 343-5704.

---

## Page 7

13-00000---

1. 26 September 1968. Call from Mr. Wallace,

American Aircraft, Washington, NA 8-1462.

o. As above.

p. 4 October 1968. Call from Mr. Williams.

Hunington National Bank, Columbus, Ohio, 469-7500.

g. 8 October 1968. As above.

5. 10 October 1968. Call from Arny Hellman, Reno,

358-0331. (Comment: Helman and Helmuth seem to be

identical.)

8. 12 October 1968. Call from Mr. Wallace, Spy

Shop, Washington, NA 8-1462. (Comment: See sub-

paragraph a, above.)

l. 14 October 1968. Mr. Logan. No further information.

(Comment: An FBI report of 1! May 1967 says that a

source of the Bureau's Now Orleans office was in contact

with a landlady who told Andrew Sciambria, an investigator

for Carsion, that William Wayne Dalzell had been placed

in contact with a ClA agent in New Orleans, & man named

Logan, by a former New Orleans attorney named Grady

Durham, Ramparte, January 1968, p. 53, Baya that a CIA

man named Logan was closely linked to a group called

"The Friende of Democratle Cuba". )

u.

15 October 1968. Mr. Wallace of NA 8-1462.

V. 15 October 1968. Mr. Raft. 882-5292.

W. 15 October 1968. Mr. Wallace.

8. 17 October 1968. Amy Hellman, Reno, 358-0331.

y.

22 October 1968. Me. Deiton, Kansas City,

221-5862.

6

SECET

---

## Page 8

13-00000

FrA.

12. Miss

said that she believed that she could obtain

additional information about Novel by writing to a friend of heis,

Mr. Aaron M. Kohn, who is the managing director of the

Metropolitan Crime Commission in New Orleans. She asked whether

there was any objection to her doing so. She was told that there

was no objection as long as her inquiry was couched within the

frame of reference of her own business and had nothing to co with

CIA. She then penned a note to Mr. Kohn, inquiring about Novel

as a customer of her service and read it aloud. She was assured

that there was no objection. She added that Mr. Kohn had done fine

jobs of cleaning up firet Denver, then New Orleans. (Comment:

• Kohn is a firm antagonist of Garrison.) Miss|

cautioned

that she may not get a reply for several weeke. She will give CIA

any information about Novel that Kohn may provide.

13. Novel'e motive remain obscure. Ae was reported earlier.

there de a clear possibility that he renained an ally of Garrison

after their seeming antagoniem developed. I so, his efforts to link

himself publicly with ClA could be part of Garrison's attack upon

the Agency.

This theory would aleo explain Novel'e relationship to a

Garriaon crony like Willard Robertson. Another possibility is that

the feud de genuine. (Novel hau made very strong accusations against

Garrison in major radio broadcaste; these include charges of

occasional homosexuality and possible direct involvement in the

alleged murder of David Ferrie.) Mied

formed a clear

impression that Novel'e dislike of Garrison 18 genuine. If so, hie

persistent attempte to link himeelf to CIA may be part of a campaign

to create for International Dynamice Corporation an aura of prestige

as a result of supposed ties to the federal government. He lieted the

U.S. government with

as one of his cliente. His

relationship to Willard Roberteon might then be explained by his

repeatod assertion that he has a penetration in Garrison's entourage.

Donovan E. Pratt

DC/CI/R&A

Distribution:

Orig - DDP

1 - C/CCS/

---

