# 104-10103-10330

## Page 1

104-10103-10330

INÓEX! ELVES

D NO

CLASSIFY TO FILE NO.

X-REF TO FILE NO.

FILE RIDD

RET. TO BRANCH O

DESTROY

SIG.

FROM

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

IS SECRET

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

(BA0I5) 15-4

ACTION

ADVANCE COPY

c/us 3

I RID COPY

ISSUED

INFO

FILE, VR, ADAR, De/WH/C5, S/CI, 0/FI2

TOTAL COPIES

1Y

Mattre:

EXCLUDIO FROM AUTONATIE

DACRASSIMICATION

REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

SLOTTED D,

USED

UNIT

W'E

'I ME

c 835 ti

E T 041107Z

20-4

IMME

TATE DIR INFO MADR) CITE (PARI) 1532

OK KEYWAY PBRUMEN CUNENAFU AMLA

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

REF

Ao

DIR

15932

4 Jur 65 N 82939

W5t 20-41

PARI 1342

(N76424)

C. DIR 14500

19-4

02

1. SUBJ REFS CONTACTED (PARI,

VIA UNSNAFU/S ON 25 MAY, TO REQUEST

AID, SUBSEQUENTLY REFUSED ON SECURI

Y GROUNDS, IN OBTAINING

SPANISH VISA AS REPORTED REF E. INMARDITION TO REF B, FOLLOWING

POINTS DISCUSSED WITH MIRRLEES WHO HAR

TWO MEEIS WITH SUBJ ON 25 MAY, FIRSI ÁI

MEET WITH CUSSNAFU/S AND SECOND BAR HOTEL NAPOLEON IO GIVE SUBJ

ANSWER ON VISA.

W2.

SUBU STATED HAD BEEN IN CONTACT WITH KUBARK 15 TIMES AND

15 TIMESANAD DISSOLVED RELATIONSHIP. STATED. KUBARK LAST ATTEMPTED

CONTACT HIM NEW YORK VIA ODURGE TVO MONTHS AGO AND THAT; HE THEN

AGREED TO CONTACT. SUBJ STATED NOT INTERESTED IN CONTACTS WITH LOW-

LEVEL. TYPES, ONLY HIGHEST PBPRINE LEVELS. SUBJ STATED HAD MANY

HIGH LEVEL FRIENDS IN POPRIME GOVI. NAMED BOBBY KENNEDY AS ONE

WHO ONCE HELPED HIM OUT OF JAM.

SUBJ SAID TOOK PART MANY RAIDS

---

## Page 2

ON

2939 1ame 2

• PBRUMEN® (RELATED MANY "STORIES" OF EXPLOITS CONNECTED THIS

3. SUBJ SPOKE IN SAME VEIN OF DISCONTENTMENT OF "NO ACTION"

AND OF MADR GROUP, SPECIFICALLY NAMING (QUSPORI/1, AS DID AMLASH/3,

GINDGÑAFU/9. AS REPORTED REF B, SUBJ STATED WOULD HAVE (@USPORT/1

KICKED OUT (PRESUMABLY KUBARK) AS SOON AS POSSIBLE. SUBJ AND

(UNSNAFU/9, AS WELL AS AMLASH/3, HAVE REPEATED EXPRESSED THEIR

HIGH REGARD OF BELIEF IN AMLASH/1. NOW THAT AMLASH/3 IS IN PBRUMEN,

SUBJ AND (UNSNAFU/S SPEAK OF HIM IN SAME RESPECT AS AMLASH/1.

SAID THEY ARE NOW RISKING LIVES AND ONLY

LA

WAY THEY WILL GET OUT OF PBRUMEN WILL BE STEAL PENNE AND ATTEMPT

ESCAPE. CUNSNAFU/S HAS STATED SEVERAL IIMES, SINCE APRIL BOTH TO

GLOADEN AND MIRRLEES, THAT "SOMETHING BIG" GOING TO HAPPEN IN

NEXT THREE MONTHS. SUBJ AND CUNGNAFU/S BOTH STATED TIME IS RIPE

FOR ACTION.

4.

SUBJ ARRIVED IN PARI FROM LOND ON 21 MAY. WHEN MIRRLEES

ASKED SUBJ WHY HIS KUBARK CONTACTS IN PBPRIME HAD NOT PROVIDED

NECESSARY ARRANGMENIS FOR VISA, SUBJ STATED HIS BUSINESS' MADR NOT

KUBARK SPONSORED AND KUBARK NOT AWARE OF IT. SUBJ INSISTED

IT IMPERATIVE HE ARRIVE MADR 25 MAY TO SPEAK TO "IMPORTANT MEMBER

THEIR GROUP." SUBJ SAID ALSO SHOULD HAVE BEEN IN ZRMETAL BY 25

7pi

---

## Page 3

DO IT KUBARN CAN ULD NOT OBTAIN VISA HE SOLSO HAVE

1w8.2939

Page 3

RETURN

PBRPIME AND FROM THERE RETURN MADR LATER DATE. SAID THIS COMPLI-

CATES HIS PLANS.

. SUBJ SOUSHT KUBARK ASSISTANCE ONLY AFTER NORMAL

VISA APPLICATION DETERMINED TO TAKE TOO LONG.

5.

TAL

WHEN MIRRLEES HAD SECOND MEET WITH SUBJ TO CONFIRM RESULTS

WITH STOCKWOOD RE VISA (MIRRLEES FIRST TOS SUBJ SHE WOULD

CHECK WITH HER BOSS BUT CERTAIN WOULD BE DENIED ON SECURITY GROUNDS)

TWO FRIEND, OF SUBS APPEARED: MAN NAMED "FRANK" APPROX 26-29

STATED HAD KNOWN SUBJ LONG TIME. GIRL "DANIELLE" APPROX 20 DID

NOT SPEAK. BOTH APPEARED BE STUDENIS. MAN APPEARED EFFEMINATE.

SUBJ PROPOSED MIRRLEES JOIN GROUP FOR DINNER BUT MIRRLEES DECLINED

OFFER AS HAD OTHER PLANS.

6. FROM ABOVE, IT OBVIOUS THERE TWO DIFFERENT STORIES RE KUBARK

CONTACI WITH SUBJ. SUBJ'S LINE OF THOUGHT EXACTLY, ALMOST TO SAME

WORDS, AS THAI. OF AMLASH/3, CUNSNAFU/9.

To REGARDING. PARA IWO REF A, STATION NOT AWARE COMMENT THIS SUBJECT

IN GROUPS

NOT ALREADY CONNECTED WITH AMLASH ONE. FROM HERE PROB-

LEM SEEMS BE THAT AMLASH CIRCLE IS WIDE AND EACH NEW

FRIEND OF WHOM

WE LEARN SEEMS TO HAVE KNOWLEDGE OF PLAN.

SECRET

2/pd

---

