104-10167-10240

or oo 0 a ao oO

SECRET

: 2974SZ oP Ie
ww thepe, 5 NFO: FILE : 20, RDO,
Le 6 oes ft, “il.

TO: FE: iL. BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION. ¥

ATTH: IHTELLIGENCE DIVISTON-¥
SECRET/HO FOREIGN DISSEN ¥ Bry
suasect: Onarcos DIAZ LANZ ¥

hoaloAN oreserat ts REQUESTED INFORMATION |

OR MARCOS DIAZ LANZ. A CUSAN EXILE LEVING IN NIANIs FLORIDA.
DIAZ UROTE A LETTER TO GENERAL AUGUSTO PINOCHET. PRESIDENT OF

y GUARDED LANGUAGE REQUESTING DATA

BLYdHh ft
mers. DISSEM BT

werento PER TES

vm PA

ON THE

GOVERNMENT OF CHILE WHICH HE COULD USE IN A SERIES OF TALKS 4

IS IMPORTA!
IKFORMATION OM DIAZ-¥ iis fe

@- .THE FILES OF THIS AGENCY REFLECT THAT RARCOS DIAZ “LANZs
BORY MAY 20. 2923. HAVANUA, CUBA. ALIEN REGISTRATION NUMBER

BUT PROVIDES NO DATA- GENERAL PINOCHET UOULD -LIXE

“BEFORE POUERFUL U.S. BUSINESSMEN. THE LETTER IMPLIES THAT DIAZ

A-DLSSEUSD. MAS EMPLOYED IN APRIL 2974 AT S-D- BRULL AND ASSOCIATES»

2297 Sue 77H AVERUEs MIAMI, FLORIDA. A RECENTEVSFEGUIRED SOURCES

THAT

- j
UHGOSE INFORMATION HAS PROVEN ACCURATE REPORTED, IN NOVEMBER LILY 4

DIAZ WAS OPERATING AS AN ARMS DEALER UNDER THE ALIAS" L} GARCIA

are:

ph
wat:

: . RECORD COPY
Se acecton Aieeeoeonepoteents
SECRET

{

‘ RETURNTO

Background U!
-Do Not Re}

VS,

~ ail

~N

Uo Only


OUTGOING MESSAGE

seme commeausa one

Prensa aaa
ow; oo o.oo go a a
SECRET ae ; a
leewecenceaeccae ae a ceecaeseemcesee ,
CIA : : A
(OD we issenjay:

cone: INFO: FRE, O nocces : i

i i GINGA Do nnn ren

AED YAS A NENSER OF AN ULTRA-RIGHTIST GROUP CALLED "MINUTEMEN”

IW YALAHAs FLORIDA.OCTAIS REPORT WAS PASSED To YOUR eg
RECRESENTET IVE f1) (1tAttt ONS ANEVEHELR IFE4s)
3. INFORMATION FROM YOUR FILES IS VESTED ON THE eiuieulale

ACTIVITIES AND A BRIEF ASSESSMENT. OF eS a DIAZ LANZ WITH AN

cee tt)

KDUCATION OF UHAT MAY BE PASSES TO THE yo
4. CLASSIFIED BY RECORDING REPORTING OFFICER. EXEMPT  - :
FROM GENERAL DECLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE OF E-0. 13652 EXEMPTION | #

CATEGORY SB{2}. IMPOSSIBLE TO DETERMINE DATE OF AUTOMATIC a

SNH

oY firs Hose oe | | :

ex:

: 7D eS iG CLINEs’ «rn Re yy
: 2a. or LAZRR bee, z nS

; liam “opssisn cocnand grat, oes) 2X any
: labios Repnony.. LINER than TE SyUINO-OFFICE Be a ineveT
: ~" : we by,
‘SECRET seats me * go7su7

i : . 4 IQ
