# 104-10234-10042

## Page 1

104-10234-10042

lar

arch 1956)

1) is.

&" Mr. Anderdon's Eulgebilor, asiod

Antisgai to cone: en ile leasibili:y of havina AViAS"-i cons out to

90e is iur orleiina purposos. This nss done allhin the past 10 dayo.

Alhr-IP-1 8a11 inal ipe soinl sso not good since Mra. Cubala red just

10d" recently diver ciren. AMMIP abould be daker whethor he sado any

Call :O MaTtis, Deri diy reblago of any sort to cubola, diractly or

'odirectly, within che laat 10 daya, Mr. Anderson vishes to point out

anal ArWiIF-1 could, 1l lia vero a Castro agons, bare informod tha

Cuchrs of our desiro to see LaSt again. WHiPPa poreonal Irdendahip and

Loyalty to LASH should be considered alast thia - to my thinkine.

2) NITRUST -9, eupposedly boing uned by ACSI, raportedly

sont into Cuba 1n Docentor ISty la una a direct contast of ANtUalD, sa

ma arrester with LAsHI, Il TRUIK 9 vore arrestod (and even polesend

o 19 82111 hold) he would have been a lead to TRUNK? AMASH-1 has

rapediadiy earned us that THUNk-10 sas nervous, fooling soamly, and

woul1 11koly talk 11 arreded. I TAUK-10 had boon arrestod firet,

11 he talked, 1º would lead 10 LaSH. Il arpested on TRUNK 99s talk,

11 would atili load to LAsH.

3) AKLASH-I and Faura Choron (Minderor of Tranaport) eno

both old Di leaders, Thay had a recent, sorious, argumat which me

reported by sajor alberto MORA Bocerra, More said that as a conneruence,

AMLAS"» rould asther be arrested or have to leave the country. (This

Irforelion to undoubtedly reported to faul Caatro.) Il Pauro Chensa

santos revenge on AMAsH (one called him assis other talage a tear

during the 1958 fighting) he would bare soon to it that Paul beonna

Informed.

is Paure Chonon did not desk revenge on AMlASH-I (lor ton

FINLASH-,

---

## Page 2

14-00000

P..-

no ...

ho has exaried hi-soll in iba past lou jearo - eras to having a traffio tulat

51n0s in 1964) Haul castro and PIDEl hinoli, iny soe the fight botunes the

tHo as a usy 10 pay o!l boll, Paura Choson and Rolando Cubala mere tho tro

5

DR Inders she refused to turn over the palace to cautro on I samary 19p%.

In addizion, Saul Bal AMLASH-1 have 20r8 buen at odda - Raul threatening

11. provloudly to vearing a Comandaniola unifore unile not partleigating

in military acciuliled, lastie blunt and trotter" anor to maul, ot colera.

Furthersoro, Paure embarrassed fidel Brasily al cha Marcos Rodriguas trial

and Fidol haa boon salting to "gor even". Mis 10 s good manent to atrilo

at Fauro, is Paurorail Del havo barned ANTASH. Il could do annard los

between thou,

Pouro to holp dofend LaSH non, in viou of the boom quarral tachout

Involving herself in the chargo, idol could essily read into sury

dofense by PBUre Of AMLASH non a further attompt to Interfere vita

blo on "justico".

1) Raul cantro racently sald that a purgo of the military arald

be necessary, What better my so begin? It also strikeo at the da -

and aure. Coatro and Comany hava lorg now of lustro distasto fer

then - here cold the- to their faces. Theyive aluo long known of hio

corpilod by Baul

conspiracy. LAst 1a on & 1104/o1 persone to be ampested Immediataly

18 sorothing bappens to Pided. Pineiro 8180 knows of LasHto disoent with

5) After having COld IASH ihat sa toald poovido (and elangira des

poRtiion - dus parilAlly lo IKPa death) one ehould rocogniso the foot

that A'TASH usy nos rant to protect us, due to his disappointant at car

rofusal l0 extent a "noral rocopall1o2" of bis plan. On the ethor band,

he 10 undoubtedly sall aire that Cotrole "riorsy does not astend to

#confessorg" - Witness Marces Rodrigues and Floy Outserres Nepsye - s

recentls suffered a severe beating in princa. (Altso it night bare boom

the otber paloonero uno beat tis - though st seems unliialy dur report.)

---

