# 104-10163-10045

## Page 1

104-10163-10045

27

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

EpafiGp

MIC. 3-481

ROUTING

20/

15

6

FROM JMWAVE

3

8

ACTION:

Iw

(COPY ISSUED TO IV I SDO AT: 2230, 17 FEB DD)

INFO:

DCI, D/DCI, DDP, ADOP, SOD 4, CA 2, CA/PEG, CA/PROP, CA/O 4, CI, CI/OPS, C1/IC 2

CI/PS, FL, FI/D, FI/INT 6,

RI/Av, WH/SA.12, WH 8, VR, FILE, CS/RF.

EC RE T 172332

FEB 18 $312Z, 65 IN 82931

DIR INFOLPACY) LANT EARR CITE WAVE 8394

INTEL TYPIC

1

SUPDATA:. AMCLATTER-1 FRON FRANK FIORINI. REF: UFG-671D. RID:

INDEX. FILED 172332Z

REPORT CLASS CONFTDENTIAL CONTROLLED. DISSEM. COUNTRY: CUBA

SUBJ: DECISION OF ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA TO USE A CUBAN PILOT ON

THE MIRR'S AIR STRIKE SCHEDULED FOR 16 FEBRUARY 1965

DOI: 17 FEBRUARY 1965

PADA: UNITED STATES, MIN1 (17 FEBRUARY 1965). UFG-6727

SOURCE: A MIAMI BUSINESSMAN WHO WAS A RESIDENT OF HABANA FOR SEVERAL

YEARS, "THE SOURCE HAS CONTACTS WHO RECOGNIZE HIM AS A CHANNEL TO U.S.

INTELLIGENCE. THIS INFORMATION WAS OBTAINED FROM FRANK FIORINI.

I COANINT:

HL/SA

12

WULPEG

8

mesus iwe im sumy

TDCS DB-315/00576-65

* IROUTINE

PRIONTY

www.bo.com

BASED ON

LFG-6727

DATE DISTRIBUTED,

NP/AYCLATTER/ 1

18 FEBRUARY 0533 Z65

UAISON, "1

1999690e9

"99" bUreMAYe

PEELAGAIOEEANON

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITED.

Copy Na.

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Qnly

Do Not Reproduce

1J0

---

## Page 2

14-00000

POHH

10.88. 3001

•CONTIDENTIAL

listen Flllod !

• MFG, 82-64

CONEIRENILAL

MIMPETER AIS

- ROUTINE

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE

AGENCY

Intelligence Information Cable

COUNTRY.

CUBA

TDCS DB-315/00576-65

DATE OF

INFO.

17 FEBRAURY 1965*

DISTR. 18 FEBRUARY 1965

SUBJECT

DECISION OF ORLANDO BOSCH: AVILA TO USE A CUBAN :

PILOT ON THE MIRR'S AIR STRIKE SCHEDULED FOR

16 FEBRUARY 1965

PLACE &

DATE ACO, UNITED STATES, MIAMI (17

, FEBRUARY. 1965)

REF

N82931

FIELD REPORT NO. UFG 5727.

APPRAISALI A MIAMI BUSINESSMAN WHO WAS A RESIDENT OF MABANA FOR SEVERAL YEARS. THE SOURCE

HAS CONTACTS WHO RECOGNIZE HIM AS A CHANNEL TO U.S. INTELLIGENCE. THIS INFORMATION

WAS OETAINED FROM FRANK FIORINI.

— 1. AT ABOUT 4:88 P.M. ON 17 FEBRUARY 1965 FRANK FIORINE SAID

THAT ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA, LEADER OF THE MOVIMIENTO INSURRECCIONAL

DE RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARIA (MIRR) INSURRECTIONAL MOVEMENT FOR

REVOLUTIONARY RECOVERY) AGREED TO LET THE CUBAN PILOT FLY THE

MISSION SCHEDULED FOR 16 FEBRUARY INSTEAD OF THE AMERICAN PILOT.

(FIELD COMMENT: THE SAME SOURCE REPORTED THAT BOSCH HAD SCHEDULED

AN AIR STRIKE AGAINST THE CITY OF HABANA FOR 16 FEBRUARY IN A B-25.

AN AMERICAN PILOT WAS TO FLY THE AIRCRAST BUT WAS TO DE ACCUMFANIEU

BY A CUBAN PILOT.) THE CUBAN PILOT HAS BEEN TRAINING IN THE 8-25

prohitfied byne.

CONEIDENITAL

STATE/I DIA

ARMYIACSI NAVY All IS

TREASURY • FBI TENS MORTITO PATROL CUPTOMS

NSA MIC

AO/C8 2

CALLAND ASSEN

---

## Page 3

14-00000

meet a ra

IN

CONFIDENTIAL

TDCS DB-315/00576-0 F 2

HE HAS HAD PREVIOUS TRAININS IN A SEA FURY AND IN A TWIN-ENGINE

SEAPLANE, PRESUMABLY A PBY, FIORINI SAIU THE B-25 WAS PURCHASED

IN TUCSON, ARIZONA, NOT IN TEXAS AS HE PREVICUSLY STATED.

2. THE CUBAN PILOT IS THE SAME PERSON WHO WAS TO MAKE A

BOSCH-FINANCED RAID IN A SINGLE-ENGINE AIRCRAFT AGAINST AN UNSPECIFIED

TARGET. THE PLANE WAS TO LEAVE FROM THE KEY WEST AREA.

3. FIORINI SAID THAT BILL SCHIISON, AN AMERICAN PILOT WHO

HAS BEEN ARRANGING THE SUPPORT ASPECTS FOR BOSCH'S RAIDS, RECEIVED

AN UNIDENTIFIED SUM OF MONEY FROM BOSCH ON 17 FEBRUARY.

4. ACCORDING. TO FIORINI, IF THE RAID HAD NOT TAKEN PLACE

ALREADY, IT WOULO PROBABLY BE MADE WITHIN 24 HOURS.

5. FIELD DISSEMS CINCLANT, CINCSO, COMKWESTFOR, MIAMI REPS

OF STATE, FBI, BORDER PATROL, CUSTOMS, I&NS, AND USCO.

CONFIDENTIAL

(END OF MESSAGE)

BANTRBLIOS FISSE

!

---

