FORM WO, C4

rost0r6%-t0t86)

Office Memorandum’ + ‘oxtrep states GOVERNMENT

To : Chief, Appraisal Section DATE: Sys... tyes
U

FROM : William F. O'Shea
Appraisal Section

>
sunpect: RODRIGUEZ, But 140 smericd
he

1. Subject is under consideration for clearance for Contract
Type "A" employment which would permit him access to CIA premises
in the field (Miami). He currently holds a Type "B" clearance.
Subject has not been polygraphed.

2. Subject is/33 years of_age, and is married to a native- ° a
born American citize: Subject was bornfin Cuba in 1928, entereao’
the United States in "1942, and was naturalized in mean Subject
attended [fulane University from 1945 to 1948 and fran 1952 to 1954. 0¥
While at school] he was employed és @ part-time Teacher and as qu<
Medical Technicians] Subject's father was born({in Havana in 189i] 10, 09
oF (fe is currently a an citizen residing in Havana} Subject's mother
was born fa Havana in 1901. Although she has not been naturalized, (0, ot, 08
she has resided in the United States from 1904 to 1922 and from 1ghe
to date. Other] foreign connections, if any, are not disclosed.

3. Investigation wes conducted in accordance with currently
Prescribed CIA procedures. Checks at FBI, QVI, ACSI, State Depart-
ment Security, CSC, HCUA and OSI were negative. Passport records
contain no derogatory security information concerning the Subject.
T&NS records verified Subject's naturalization.

4. During the current CIA investigation, Subject's employments
were verified as favorable. Credit records were favorable, and police
records were negative. During the investigation, two developed infor-
mants were interviewed, neither of whan questioned Subject's honesty,
loyalty, morals or integrity. Informants variously described Subject
as sympathetic to the American way of life, intelligent, well educated
and trustworthy. One (confidential) informant, a former FBI agent,
advised he knew nothing of a derogatory nature concerning Subject.

5. Only one item of security interest appears in Subject's case.
This concerns his foreign connections (alien status of mother and
father, and possibly other foreign relatives). Exception to Regulation
10-3 is required.

are


7 SECRET

6. One informant advised that Subject is a diabetic who
must use insulin.

7. Investigation has disclosed no information which would
indicate that either Subject or any member of his family is other
than loyal to the United States. Considering this, in addition
to the protracted residence of Subject's mother in the United
States, it is believed that the likelihood of adverse pressure
being put on Subject by his foreign connections is remote. It
is believed that Subject meets security criteria for the pro-
posed employment. It is, therefore, recommended that:

A. Exception to Regulation 10-3 be granted.

B. Subject be security approved for Contract
Type "A" employment, subject to polygraph.

C. Subject's alleged diabetic condition be
brought to the attention of the Medical Staff.

yn a

William F. O'Shea
Appraisal Section

WO'S:kee:rls

Ope: H OL LJ aed
Ke Be

Re eee Orce

31 AUG 1961

eo po ee a2 fet

2/ Aes 1

SECRET
