dae -007

eeu tiiveat

dune 15, 1978
HscA

| we a7. 22/3 |

NOTE FOR H The Director bem teeeteee A
FROM 7 Haviland Smith
SUBJECT : The HSCA Investigation of the Mexico City Station

1. The memorandum from Scott Breckinridge, attached hereto, dated
15 June, addresses only one aspect. of our problem with the HSCA. In the
fall of this year, the HSCA will prepare a report for the Congress which will
be unclassified. There seems every likelihood that this report, whether we
are able to contest it successfully either with the Committee or perhaps even
in the Courts, will contain sensitive information,.the revelation of which
will be very damaging to oun ginterests in Mexico. Not only will this report
provide evidenc or our uni ‘Steral intel Ligencel activi in Mexico. City. which 7
cactivitiesfare against Mexican Law,| but it will also 4,08
5

: ] The best example of this, but not the only
example, is (thei~jcelephone tap activity, the evidence from which will be
an integral part of the aSCA's conclusions.

2. Mexico City is a focal point for Soviet. intelligence operations
against. the continental United States. There is a long, documentable history
of <a basedwin Mexico being run into our Country. The relation-

ship that is a critical ingredient
in. our abitity to protect ourselves against. these Soviet intelligence acti-
vities a, You will recall that the Boyce-Lee case was brought to our attention
by (those elements of|the Mexican government. If, as we suspect, the Committee

ublishes, the kind information spelled out above, the result on this
eee be disastrous. It will seriously weaken our
ability to protect our country from Soviet intelligence activities.

3. We believe that the issues raised by Chairman Stokes in his letter
to you affords an excellent opportunity. for you: to underline to him some. of
the problems which are inherent in an ultimate declassification and: publica-
tion of the sensitive information they have gleaned from our files on general
intelligence activities in Mexico City. This may not prove to be helpful
in dampening the ardor of the HCSA staff, but it most certainly will put
them on notice that the course they are taking will have direct repercussions
not only on CIA activities in Mexico City, but on our bilateral relations
with that country.

19796

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

