# 104-10186-10389

## Page 1

104-10186-10389

RETURN TO CLA

Peitground Use Onty

Do Not Reproduos

Mattell gence infoimation Cable

T0C5-314109503-55

• O:

•$ 9:555...

CAPTURE BY POLICE. CE SUSPECT iN ESSISSINATIONI OF.

JUDICIAL FOLICE AGENT GELICIANO SALIAR MAZANEOUS

ELSTELA, GUATEMALA CITY (15 VERY 1965)

• RIF-

SEAT:IN CARCIAL MITH GOD MCCESS TO LIP FILES MO CERTETAL

O GUNTER GERRILLA ACTINITIES, WERS:

!.."

1011.05

Filter.

FIx 5-314/0175,2-9,6

..*:

*dude eN 15 durine Gir dance alone Faulti

CALME MEN CU A STURGEONS THEN THEE THED A GAO GREN:DE

AT

CASINS FATROL CAR, THE INO MEN TROLL - ESCAPE OUT THEIR INTON

RC'ELEAN GUIDE CONTROL AND CRASHED. QUE DE THE HEN CAPPURCO E

IOSITIFUL LATER AS FRANCISCO CELZ FRIGGIDA.

SHOT SURGIAL POLICE AGENT FEARCISCO SALAZED MEAGENCE 10D HIS H

'•*;

COMANICAL S DELY 10UD. CRUE HAS ECON CORATHI? TO CLISON.

COMMONTE SALAZNE GAZALECOS AND HIS CEMALE COMANCH WERE SEE? "I.

Lins, The in

on triica.

-CRET

Store Cater

A5S-:3.58.-19.%.

CHASMICC

2IBR

---

## Page 2

TAL GIDDIE DORE HE WAS RUCOVECINS FRON HIS MCUNDS. IT HAS

ALREADY BREN REPORTEO THAT MEMDERS OF THE FUERZAS ARIADAS RÉEELOES

(FAR-UNITED:, "BRILLA FRONT) MERE CONSICERSO RESPONSIOLE FOR THE

SASOT IS HE LEATH CE SALAZAR).

MATCH ICE, IDENTIFICO FRANCISCO CRUE FIGUERCA, AS i GUATEMALASS

CUEBRILLA SHO WENT TO CONNUNIST CUBA IN FEBRUARY iS63. OTHER

REPORTS RIO THAT IN CUBA, FIGUERDA HAD ECEN TRAINGO IN GUERRILLA

WARFARE).

SO CHELO DISSEE STATE ARMY ARE CINELANE CINEÇO

"SCRET

END OF MESSAGE

VIBR

---

