iod-0146-(0345

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL USE ONLY
Journal - Office of Legislative Counsel Page 6
Thursday - 16 March 1978 :

25. (Confidential - LLM))LIAISON Brian Atwood, Congressional
Relations, Department of State, called to explain that a task force had
been established at State on the Middle East airplane package and asked
if he could lay on a briefing for this group by us ‘on the arms balance
in the Middle East. . Bob Hepworth's, NFAC/CSS, office was advised.

26. (Confidential - LLM) LIAISON Called Bill Miller, Staff
Director, Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, and concluded
arrangements in connection with the Director's providing Senator
Lowell Weicker (R., Conn.) certain KCIA material and outlined the
terms and conditions of the covering letter from the Director to
Senator Weicker. Miller was in complete agreement with our proposed
handling and agreed also that we should close the loop with Senator Adlai

“Stevenson (D., Ill.) in his’ capacity as Chairman of the Senate Select

Committee on Ethics. ..

27. (Unclassified - LLM) LIAISON Frank Sullivan, Staff Director,
Senate Armed Services Committee, called and we discussed current
practice with respect to the granting of compartmented clearances.

28, (Confidential - “LLM) LIAISON Called Mike Hershman,
Deputy stdee Director, House International Relations Subcommittee on
International Organizations (Fraser Subcommittee), and told him that as
soon as he can have Chairman Donald Fraser (D., Minn.) execute the
Addendum to the Memorandum of Understanding between the Agency and
the Subcommittee, we were prepared at his convenience to show him the
additional material which I had discussed with him. Hershman is pleased

" with the progress we are making and all indications are that Chairman

Fraser will find it acceptable to rely upon Hershman's testimony
exclusively on the FBI/CIA issue and there will be no necessity for a
statement from the CIA or a CIA witness on KCIA.

ee (Unclassified es LLM) LIAISON Spoke with Bob Blakey,
Staff Director, House Select Committee on Assassinations, concerning
our general warrant letter and we did reach suitable language.

es z

(A
YLE L, MILLER
Ne keting Legislative Counsel

cc: O/DDCI Mr. Grinwis Ex. Sec. DDA DDS&T Mr. Lapham
Mr. Hetu SA/DO/O Resource Mane ement Comptroller NFAC

-CONRUE! UA BBG 2
INTERNAL HSE OMY

