# 104-10167-10193

## Page 1

104-10167-10193

•ATE

NFO

÷531

1÷ 2FR 63

DIRECTOR

HAYAMA

CLASSIFES MESSAGE

SECRET

APR 1% Z2022 60

(OH ISSUED TEMPO COPY 1735, 14 AFR 60)

DO/P, Cr, ADOP/A, S/C 2

ARIORITY

IN 26976

21-17

21-15

MITY DIE JUTO PRITY CADARISY ENCINE LADS 237>

NES: L; FATA 4152

Di DER 25798 / out 57698)

2!

130027

45 APR

SYDAT JIBC

1, CLIDE LET SNAK EUCHILE SE APRIL. HE SALI THAT PURPUSE

IN HIS HIND OF TRIP TO PBPRIME WAS TO DISCUSS WITH SOMEONE UNO

COULD SPEAK FOR ODYOKE KIS VIEWS ON THE CUBAN SITUATION AND TO

JETERMINE WHETHER THERE WAS GENERAL AGREEMENT BETWEEN THEM AS TO

STIMATE SCALS, ITCO FOLLOWING THIS HE WAS PREPARED SIT DOWN

WITH REFS OF OTHER CUBAN GROUPS AND ENDEAVOR SPLIN. GUT AND AGREE

TO A FROGLAN ANE COURSE OI ACTION. CONSEQUENTIY IU: IS NOT KEEN

EN A FRION BRETING WITH AUWAIL AS WE

11enad die 19t anna bot earn

REPRODUCTION BY OMER THAN THE ISSUING ORNICE LE PROMISITE.

Copy Na.

3/BR

RETURN,TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

---

## Page 2

14-00000

-to 75-81191007

SECRET.

rAJE. 2

iN 2ÃT6

HAVA 7179:

H-VE PROPOSED SILCE- THIS

IS GETTING THE CANT EETORE THE HORSE.

2. OLIEN EXPLAINED TO ALHAUK THAT SO FAR AS PEPRIME THINKING

LAS CONCERNED HE HAS ALREADY RECEIVED (SEE BIS B) AGREEMENT IN

FRINCIPLE AND SO FAR AS MEETING WITH AMWAIL WAS CONCERNED IT HAS

ONLY LIMITED PURPOSE OF INDEAVORING OBTAIN SUPPORT OF FIGURES

FOR EVENTUAL ISTABLISHMENT OF LOCALE FOR JUNTA®

• 3. IT SOON SECANE APPARENT WHAT EATING ANNARK. SUBSEQUENT TO OUR

LAST MEETING CRET AJ HE HAD BEEN VISITED BY ANPALAL WHO SAID HE

HAD ATTENDED MEETING IN PBPRIME AND THEY HAD BEEN "EXPECTING"

ASHAWK AND THAI ANWAIL WANTED AMHAUK COME PAPRINESOONEST. ANHAl

TOLD OLIEN THAT HE HAS NOTHING AGAINST AMAIL. BUT AMVAIL IN NO

FOSITION "SEND" FOR HIM• ALSO HE PERSONALY DIDN'T THINK AMPALN

VAS OF JUNTA STATURE.

40 OLIEN BELIEVED HE SUCCESSFUL SMOOTHING AMHAWKS FEATHERS

AND

THAT' HE WILL FOLLOW OUR GUIDANCE WITH RESPECT MEETING AMWAII•

IN VISW OF MISGIVINGS EXFIESSED BY COS IN RAF G, STATION HAVA

RECOMMENDS THAT ANVAIL AMIAK INITIAL GET TOGETHER AWAIT ALAWES

SECRET

REPRODUCTION DY OTHER THAI THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHICITEO!

---

## Page 3

side Fast tet

CLASSITTED MESSAGE

SECRIT

PRIVAL IN PEPRIME OIA 24 APR AND METHOD AFFECACH

TO FIGULALS BE

LORKID OUT THERE BETUEEN THEM. THIS WILL HAVE MERIT OF PROVIDING

BARK CONTACTS OPPORTUNITY ORIENT AND REASSURE ASHAUX WHO

APPARENTLY SUFFERING FROM CERTAIN AMOUNT STAGE FRIGHT AND POSSIBLE

MISGIVINGS RE BASIC PLANNING• AMHAWK WOULD PREFER HIS ARRIVAL

POINT IN US• BE OTHER THAN MIAMI AREA.

• 5• UNLESS HOS ABLE GET FINAL INSTRUCTIONS FOR AMHAWK TO HAVA

STATION NOT LATER IT APA AMAN I RECT ERIVE INSTRUCTIONS,

CUIDANCE AND TRAVEL FUNDS FROM CARA STATION CONTACT WHEN HE CALLS

AT EMB FOR PEPRIME VISA. CONTACT SHOULD USE OLIEN'S TRUE NAME IN

IDENTIFYING SELF TO AMHAWK• AMHAWK NOW NOT THINKING OF RETURNING

HAVA AND EXPECTS SEND WITE AND CHILD TO PAPRIME JITHIN WEEK GE

DE: DAYS•

Ge AMHARKS PETULANCE SAMPLE OF, WHAT WE CAN EXPECT IN FUTURE

FROM INDIVIDUAL COMPONENTS OF PROPOSED JUNTA- OLIEN TOOK LIFERTY

TELLING AMHAW PLAINLY THAT IF RESPONTIULE OPPOSITION LEADERS

MEN'T BIG ENOU'TO SUBORDINATE PERSON:1 PRELUPICES AND AMENTIONS

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUINO OFFICE IS PROMICITED.

1/BR

---

## Page 4

14-00000

SECRET

INE LORY TOCETHER AS A TEAM THEY AND E

•LOST DEFORE THEY STARTE

SE ADMITIID THIS VAS TRUE.

"TO ASHANY PLANS CONTACT OLIEN AFTERNOON

PAdE

148.26376

MAYA 4179

16 AND 17 APR FOR ANY

FINAL INSTRUCTIONS.

FILED: 1418002

END OF MESSAGE

CS COMMENT: * AMHAWK HAS TICKETS AND DOCUMENTS. FOR DEPARTURE VIA LAV PLANE DIRECT

TO CARACAS AT 0220 HOURS 18 APRIL

BECRET

REPROCUCTION SY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE I9 PROMISITEO,

---

