# 104-10216-10422

## Page 1

104-10216-10422

1

WHILET

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION

BECRET

PROCESSING

F63

AESED

АСТІСНУ

GeCt

215NE

Chief of Station, Madrid

MURED FOR IDDORA

so Chiel,

NO MODORO REQUIDO

ONLY QUALITIED

Chief, FB

IZADQUANTENS DESE

CAN JUDGE INDOOMO

FROM

I AASTRACT

Chief of Station, JIVAVE

sar Operational KEIWAY/MBF JASN/ ANOT/AMLASH/ANSORLD

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

Madrid Contacts of Cuban Refugee Miguel deLEON ROjaB Cor: ine

sai subject Raine contacte

ACTION REQUIRED: NOne, FYI

REFERBYCE: UFGA-21144, 27 April 1965 'e5-4-6

i The AHOTS subaitted in Reports 2E 3135,

22 April 1965,

23 April 1965 and DD-1361, 13 April 1965, additional

details

on the matter roported in Reference, which ve are sumartzing below

for your information.

2.

The following Infornation was contained in a letter dated

I AprIl 1965 ITOR ANUT-3'8 friend in Madrid, Manuel LOPEZ Lourido:

manjim etitioni

LOPt stated that the recent defection of

Odon ALVAREZ de la Campa (201-044994) had left AMLASH 2

and AHLASH3 comletely contused. le lurther stated that

recalled to Cuba and plana to leave tila

QUHOPS] 15 reportedly in the complete

confidence of AMLASH-1, AMLASH•2 and AKASH-3, all of thom

are planning some action with Marinar GARCIA Gonzalez

(201-287712) < CIs Officer tho 15 not in the Cuban Embassy

In Algeria and in 601ng to Quory/no further details were

given on this matter.

According to LOPEz, the Ciban Ambassador to France,

Antonio Mariaf-CARRILLO Carreras (201-349956), who 18 the

coordinator of all Chatroite activities in lestern Burope,

1s expected to arrive in Madrid during the next few days.,

He is reportedly

bringing jevelry for Rafaely/GARCIA-BANGO

Distribution:

a a C03, Madrid

(CONTINUED)

ROSS ROARDICE ES

- COPS -

CLESSIFICATION

SECRE

65810952231

DATE TYPED

DATE CESPITCHED

1 May 85 MậY 1 0 1965

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

VIGA -21381

HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBER

196-95/4

---

## Page 2

14-00000

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

CLASSMVICATION

SECRET

DISPATCH SYMBOLAND NUBLE

UFGA-21381

Loppy sald that the group of "Captaing" in

Spain are very agitated these days.

He further stated

that he bad talked do AMLASH-3 on 18 April 1965, and

AMLASH-3 had told him that he had to retarn to Cuba

immediately and that he uns greatly concerned because

the DSE or 1f he was being sent to the firing mall.

LOPEZ reportedly suggested to AMLASH that he stay

1n Spain and not return to Cuba, to shich AHLASH-3

replied that he had to return, because if he did not

go back he sould compromise his friend, superior and

near brother, AltASil-l.

AHLASH3 also told LoPEz that

11 he is able to enter

Cuba sithout any problens,

"that"

(sic, presumably referring to Castro regime) sould last

two months.

b. LOPS reported that AlLASH-3 had told him that

the assassination attempt against Fidel CASTRO, a comando

operation between their group and «BIDDY-l's group,

should have takes place on 17 April 1965, but had been

frustrated because CASTRO sas cutting sugar cane.

C. ANTASH 3 reportedly told LOPEZ, that he planned

to leave for Paris on 21 April 1965 and that 11 he returns

to Cuba ho will go via Prague.

d. According to LOPKE, QUIOPS-1 mae also supposed

to leave for Havana on 20 April 1965.

• AKLAS 3 also reportedly inforned LOPEZ that

"Sho 18 one of AHLA8H-3'e sain contacts", had

passed through Spain two seeks before and had brought

then all nch peace of sind because of the fact that all

plans were going very sell.

I. LOPEZ advised that "Cuco" LBOH (Bubject of

Paragraph 1 of Reference) is the permanent contact and

vas in Spain about a week ago (about 11 April 1985).

When "Cuco" LION returned to liani fron Europe, he contacted

ANCTAG-] and reported the following to him (which information vas

contained 1= JE-3139):

LEON sald that he is greatly concerned about

GROWERY's (in true name) actions with his (LEON'S)

, GROWKRY has shown a great interest

FORM

8.60

440)

for him.

LEON reported that AMLASH-3 had told him

(BON) that he had listened to CROTERY and his various

offers on different occasions, but that he had been

stalling GROVERY shile he (AMASH-3) saited for LBON"S

vialt before making any decisions.

• LION told ANCRAG] that there is a unfavorable

opinion of GROWKRY among those Cuban officials in Europe

tho are cooperating with Castro'e opponents and that they

sould prefer to sork with the "liant Group".

do. LSON claimed that he still had the best contacts

handg" and that there contacts are in the best

disposition and condition to sork and cooperate on serious

They have ali repeatedly told LEON of their

LEON stated that Agastin

19017310652 Cabana Airscalfe

ARresentatire 1a Rurope

USE PREVIOUE EDITION.

BICBET :

CONTINUED,

w....

I PAGE NO.

2

---

## Page 3

14-00000

32.

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

DISPATEN SYMBOL AND NUMBER

UFGA- 21381

and an identified CIS Officer, Is one of his beat

Bources of information®

LEON added that BENITEz has

unde various tripa to the Uss& and consequently 1a

very tell informed.

LEON also told sACRAG] that

RANITEZ usod to be martled to LION's sister.

$ IBON anid that AMLASH-3 had called his from

Europe and told hin of his definite decision to break

with GROUKRY and to return to Cuba.

Be According to LRON, AMPALl A had visited him

in Miant on 22 Apr1l 1965, asking hia questions and

requesting his cooperation concerning contacts and

activitles in furope.

5. MI, ASCRAG-1 1a not known as being connected with KUBARK

and has inly dedicated himself to private business.

He has

mintained close friendship with AMBIDDY-1 and AMBIDDY-I'g-folloters.

Andrey &. HEUTENAN

PORN

6.60

$80

140)

USE PREVIOUS MION.

CLASHIFICATION

SICRET

PAGE NO

3

CONTINUED

---

## Page 4

0000o

- .

attachment

По

UFGA

21381

filed

in

AMLASH-Z

201 file

10bay 65

---

