# 104-10186-10337

## Page 1

104-10186-10337

LA

AP ORI

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

• MATeral PONTELTA LAPOTNAUICE APOCAL SEA Sellonal Detense of the toled Bistei within he meaning of the laplanate late i

o masses so an unnutharred persos la probil

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

COUNTRY Cuba

REPORT NO.

SUBJECT

Political Altitudes and

Affiliations in the

Direccion

Gereral de Intelagercia (DGI)

DATE DISTR.

CSCI-31G/02294-65

1 June 1965

NO. PAGES

2

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

REFERENCES

DATE OF

INFO.

PLACE &

DATE ACQ.

1964

SOURCEs

Washington,

D.

•C.

(February 1965)

FIELD REPORT NO.

TMIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION.

SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Service until April 1964.

1. Although there are many members of the Direccion General de

Inteligencia (General Directorte of Intelligence - DGI) who

appear interested in and favorable toward:the Communist Party,

Source knows of enly

three persons who are actually members:

SaUl GONZALEZ, AlIAS"Denis"; Manuel VEGA Perez, alias "Marcos

Viera"; and Folas SCAREZ;

"Federico Santiesteban"

wis a sert of political adviser in the DGI operations

departmerts, but insisted he wis not a commissar, but, rather,

a person in

Although Source and the other officers

would tease SUAREZ by calling him "Comisario", SUAREZ greatly

resented the term and actually physically attacked Source

wolfed indoctrination meeting which all possionel were

Every Saturday morning at 8:50, SUAREZ held a

was habitually late to they

was riven penalties for his obvious

disaffection, he never paid any attention to them.

personnel Source knew weir perfectly willing to talk polatics

among themselves but in a rather desultory way; the discussions

never went on very long.

2.

Apparently during 1962, there had been considerable sentiment

for Anibal ESCALINTE and his faction,

the Partido Socialista

Popular (POP), but in 1961 the PSP

group was disrupted and

the real loyalty was to Fidel CASTRO rather than to the Party.

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

YOCARD LaucEsSeD

3

2

STATE

I DIA

REPCINCLANT

ARMY

CINCSO #

More, Field distritution indicated by "y".)

INAN

TA NS

TAIR

NIAO

DIN

WEC CA

10 has

+ NC

WHERE

INC. US

LOLLIA

IWEALIDR

15-2

12

LUKASHL

TOTALS

WH:C 8

MD s

(1), HE 1 (1), CIA, RID 1

NS.A

1X46X

LIAISON*

19-5-1

I FBI

IX-2427: 1X-2128

NP (AMMUG-1)

CSCI-316/02294-

COORDINATING REL

MiSj

---

