# 104-10322-10009

## Page 1

104-10322-10009

CENTRAL INTELLIC E AGENCY

OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR

Mr. David W. Belin

Executive Director

Commission on CIA Activities.

Within the United States

1 3 MAY 1975

Dear Mr. Belin:

I am attaching, per your request of 15 April,

background materials relating to certain questions

relating to Oswald and the Warren Commission.

Tab A is a classified Secret memorandum

responsive to your request. Tab B is an unclassi-

fied version, which you can use as you see fit

in whatever report you are preparing on the subject.

Additional details are available in the Office

of the Inspector General should you wish to pursue

this in greater depth.

Faithfully yours,

Estivocke

E. H. Knoche

Assistant to the Director

Attachment: a/s

EHKnöche:rrh:5/13/75

Distribution:

Orig - Mr. Belin w/att

1 - OGC

wo/att

1 - IG

wo/att

1 - Knoche Chrono wo/att

1'- " Comm Correspondence

1 - Belin Letter Request 15 April

(- Warren Commission

wo/att

w/att

Cementeril

El mati

---

## Page 2

13-00000

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR

13 ima%s

Mr. David W. Belin

Executive Director

Commission on CIA Activities

Within the United States

Dear Mr. Belin:

I am attaching, per your request of 15 April,

background materials relating to certain questions

relating to Oswald and the Warren Commission.

Tao A is a classified Secret memorandum

responsive to your request. Tab B is an unclassi-

fied version, which you can use as you see fit

in whatever report you are preparing on the subject.

Additional details are available in the Office

of the Inspector General should you wish to pursue

this in greater depth.

Faithfully yours,

E. H. Knoche

Assistant to the Director

Attachment: a/s

---

## Page 3

13-00000

SECRET

2 May 1975

MEMORANDUM FOR:

Deputy Chief, Operations Staff

SUBJECT

Review of Agency Holdings regarding

Photograph of Unidentified Individual

in Mexico City published by the

Warren Commission

REFERENCE

Letter dated 15 April 1975 by

Mr. David W. Belin, Executive Director

of the Commission on CIA Activities

within the United States, to

Mx. E. Henry Knoche (copy attached to

accompanying report)

This is further to, and in completion of, my

interim memorandum of a few weeks ago.

"!!.

The attachment is a detailed review in narrative,

chronological: order:- together with appropriate comment-

ary - of our extensive holdings on the OSWALD case that

have a bearing on the matter of photographs taken by

Mexico City Station on 1, 4 and 15 October 1963 of an

Unidentified Individual.

As a consequence of a combina-

tion of analytical error, misjudgement and under the

stress of an urgent desire to contribute to the develop-

ment of the investigation of the assassination, a

cropped version of one of the photographs. of the

Unidentified Individual was introduced into the chain of

evidence in the OSWALD case on 23 November 1963 by an

FBI representative in Dallas.

The successive vicissi

tudes which have now made this event a cause celebre

right down to the present moment are detailed in the

narrative.

SECRET

EL IMPDET EE BY

---

## Page 4

13-00009

SECRET

3. The attached report is not intended to be an

answer to the Fensterwald/O'Toole article which Mr. Belin

attaches to his memorandum. (I have prepared a paragraph-

by-paragraph refutation and comment on that article,

which I believe is more appropriately handled by a sepa-

rate memorandum to Mr.

Belin, and I will prepare this as

a memorandum if that is desired.)

4 .

The point of the referenced memorandum is that

consideration should be given now to "whether or;not the

entire matter can be fully disclosed at this time."

submission is designed to make it possible for you, the

IG and others whom you may desire to consult to make this

decision.

The narrative-interpretive summary has been

put together in such a way that it discloses no cyptonyms.

pseudonyms or other CIA jargon. However, its contents. ao

well beyond what has been released to the public thus far

in the Warren Commission documentation. This point must

question.

by copies of actual documentation from our files.

seems to me necessary, in reply to Mr. Belin, that he or

his representative review the documentation that backs up

the narrative..

The documentation has not been keyed into

the narrative presentation, but it follows the chronologi-

cal order of presentation from 9 October into the latest

developments in the matter,

and there is an overall index

to facilitate reference to individual items. INB: There

is only one copy of this collection; this is it.

5.

As noted above, one of the photographs taken in

Mexico City on 4 October 1963 was introduced into the

Warren Commission public record. However, it was intro-

duced into that record in two cropped versions. The

Warren Commission and its staff were made fully aware in

the course of their inguiry at Headquarters and in

Mexico City of the origins of the photograph, the fact

that we had additional photographs of the same individual

taken at different times in Mexico City and on the basis

of full knowledge of these facts reached their own con-

clusions regarding the irrelevance of the photograph to

OSWALD and the assassination.

6. In fact, we actually hold twelve different photo-

graphs of the Unidentified Individual.

Each of these xk 15

reproduced in the collected documentation backing up the

narrative report (see Items 25 - 27). Chief, LA Division,

2

SECRET

---

## Page 5

13-00000

SECRET

had indicated in writing to DC/OPS Staff, that he has no

objection for Mr. Belin to do whatever is desired with

these photographs at this time.

It should be noted that

Mr. Fensterwald in 1971 - 1972 was actually shown, by

Mr. Houston during a visit to the Agency, two of the

twelve photographs, other than the one already published

in the Warren Commission report.

(It is these two that

he has published in The New York Review of Books article

which Mr. Belin attaches to his memorandum.)

It seems to me that whoever makes a decision on

whether the entire matter can be fully disclosed at this

time should bear in mind that a subsidiary decision must

also be made,.i.e.,

whether to crop or otherwise fuzz up

the background of

the photographs or, alternatively; to

publish the entire run of the photographs for the first

time without taking out the background. Obviously, none

of these questions apply to the passage of this material

to Mc. Belin and the Rockefeller Commission itself.

think they should see the entire documentation as it

stands.

Perhaps after that, the question of.

what could

be discussed and the question of "how?" and "how much?"

could be taken up with Mr. Belin himself.

My personal

recommendation is that the more we can say about this

matter in a fully open and final manner, the better off

we will be as an Agency.

But it is my understanding

that there are still sensitive aspects deriving from the

fact that the operation which produced the photographs

was jointly run with Mexican liaison and as a consequence

publication at this time would create additional problems

at that level in Mexico.

the Ambassador, according to Win Scott's memorandum to

J.C. King on 22 November 1963 (see Item 8 in the backup

documentation), allegedly played a direct role in the

decision to put the photographs into the hands of the FBI

in Dallas laterally from the Field.

As far as I know,

there has not been anything published about this aspect

at any time in the past nor have we had any discussions

with the State Department about that asject of the matter.

Raymond G. Rocca

Attachments:

as stated

3

SECRET

---

## Page 6

13-00000

MEMORANDUM FOR: Inspector General

Don:

I am returning this to you for at least

temporary safe-keeping. Please see a copy

of my letter of this date to David Belin in

which I invite him to check with us if he wants

further details. I have this book in mind.

E.

Knoche

Attachments: a/s

13 May 1975

(DATE)

FORM NO..

AUG 54

101• WHICH

REPLACES FORM

10-101

MAY BE USED.

(47)

---

## Page 7

13-00000

DO UNCLASSIFIED

1P

U:

INAL

ONLY

"CONF:

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

NTIAL

SECRET

SUBJECT: (Optional)

FROM:

Raymond G. Rocca

2C 433

TO=: (Officer designation, room number, and

buildingh

DATE-'

RECEIVED

FORWARDED

Acting Chief, CIOPS

EXTENSION

1054

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

/

NO

DATE

2. May 1975

COMMENTS (Number each .comment to show.from whom

to whom.: Drow a line across column after eoch. comment.)

Deputy Chief

Operations Staff

EXP

Zi say slee

Air Chand

lear

п. Bucking

1.2:

13

15:1

FORM.

3-02:

OD USE PREVIOUS

EDITIONS

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

---

