# 104-10222-10043

## Page 1

104-10222-10043

110123

PANIS:: SELECT

w FraRS

FILE: TiTLE/NUMBER/VOLLNE:

INCLUSIVE DATES: _10

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:

July 1951 - 9726-1922

OP

ROOM: 5 € 13

DELETIONS, IF ANY:

-DTE

RECEIVED

ТАТЬ

RETURNED

RIVIBRED RY

(PRINT N:VD5)

SIGNATURE O:

REVIENING OFFICIAL

2:9OCENTS MAY BE COPIED OR RECOND REY MILS FILE

57032.

Heye94+9199010979

---

## Page 2

Rusonnel Artisas:

Aftue Mexico City Assisment

---

## Page 3

14-00000

SECRET

(790 81114090)

XXF

SERIAL ALMORN

REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION

CATE PASPARED

21 SEPTIMBER 1963

#, MATURE OF DERBONNEL ACTIDI

REASSIUNMENT

#. FUNDS

** TO V

ORGANIZATIONAL DEBIGNATIONS

XX

& TO CH

*P TO Cr

A. APECTIVE DATE BEQUESTED/". CATEGORY OF EAPLOYANUT

2713183

EDSULAR

%. COST CENTER NO. CHANGE.

aDLE

335-5700-1000 M

10. LOCATION Or OrFICAL STAYION

DDP

BRANCH 3

MEXICO, MEXICO SIATION

criy

18. POSITION TITLE

12- PO50T10N NUNDIN

DD. CAREER BERVICE DESIGNATION

OPS OFFICER

418

1A, CHASSIFICATION SCHIDULE (GS, LB, OSC-)

19, OCCUPATIONAL SERIES

1IN, GHADE ANO STEP

17, BALARY ON RATE

GS

I$, REMARIS

0236:01

12

85 9290

FROMS DDP/NH/L00/MEXICO STATION

Recorded

by

CS?D

DATE SIGNED

J C/WH/PERS

9/17/6-3

SPACE BELOW FON EXCLUSIVE L'SE

TEZ. STATYON

23. 18'1S:

CODE

crat

198.

IGMATURES

DEFICIR

*HE

OFFICE OF FERSONNEl.

L iS 2 209

BUTE RIC

A Gands91s

29 m

1c,

TAPIRES

" SPECIAL

BIRMINCE

A47IOEM9T

25025

D4Tя 2735

CODE

33, VES. FOEFEREES

126, SЕRН. CONS.

4h. 44

99. CAMER GATIESE

60.58

P908/ YEHP

*1.

6001

"САДНЕ СА!

40 PONDE RENOICE

seasier furse

80084

2741

1ax04 1088 9 8851

43. -POSITION CONTROL CERTIFICATION

Poio (ar:-085. 008

= 9/15/03

0#1

.• 1|52

SECRET

EOD DAT!

FEMI & ALALIM IOS ANG::

painta

malL *- 109,5000

+6861190591048

regina cBs: Br:-093

DATE BIGNED

13 Sep 63

20. 3016 CF 6E1

c+.

133: SECURIT

4t0.

134, SER

148 0470

:ase

Bie "99181991 500

DATE APPROVED

12up 63

1 8 1

---

## Page 4

SECRET

(then Milled 1n)

706

DATE DOUGARED

~ REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION

17 JULY 1963

DANIAL NURS

TYRE OF PISSENT

REASSIGNMENT

• TO

*. FUNDS

CP TO W-

+ 10 CP

CP TO CE

ONGAN

DDP

WH

BRANCH 3

MEXICO, MEXICO STATION

88 .

POBITION TITLE

A. EFFECTIVE DATE REQUESTED A.

CATTOONY OF BMPLOTHENP

WRATH

TEAM

06109|63

REGULAR

Y. COBY. CENTER 10. CHANGIE

AHLE

offs autorle replaced by

4135-5700- 1009/

To rection or artel marion"

City.

MEXICO, MEXIÇO

OPS OFFICER

1A. CLASSIFICATIN SONDULE (CH, W, ale.)

CS-

OCCUPATIONAL SERIAN

0136.01

18. POSITION NUMBER

400

GRADE AND ITEP

-12 --2

#$, CAMEIN BINVICE DESIGNATION

D

19. BALANY OR DATE

36758990

her man ta dot

FROM:

DDP/FEL

1 COPY TO FINANCE DIVISION AND OFFICE OF SECURITY

bray

27

Becorded by

CSPD

EJP

DATE SIGNED

C/WH/PER$

718/63

SPACE BELOW

FOR EXCLUSIVE

USE

OF

SIGNATURE ON CAREER SIRVICE APPAOYING

DATE SIGNEO

OFFICER

1230ml, 41

39110

E47521

wit

45015

STraini Cata

I - FICA

THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

29, DAVE EF. B:R:-

18. 29. 7 7692

3

13. : 0x.

no, I was

49.

FI SEPASHI, CA 32 CCASESTICAICROCESE ATICE SATA

Press

'ca.

EOD DAT

*A.

34-ДсIТ8

110, 80.

, SEX

PErOITS DA 2558, 3000.

LATE

$1.

JO, CHOREO CATICCOr

-rBAL.

5799.

PHON/ 11MP

3*.

coor

OR SOCIAL SEC AISYNO.

# 41780-133-5058

- 189

PAIN, CUS SEDATER:

SERPICL DATA

Fabiour car.

CCEE

FIRSENT IRE LA'S

CO98

AGENTARCUS

cort

::988 998186958

I B€ но.

1010 3 ra1)

231.

POSITION COATROL

CARTSEICATIEG

07/25/03

MOPERLA

DATE APPROVEO

22 July 6.5

SECRÉT

---

## Page 5

14-00000

go lemo

SECRET

(BAgA Fillod In)

NAME OF EMPLOVEE

DATA, Cr

MAME ANO RELATIONSHIP OF

Infe - Sessia sin

CLAIM NUMBER

63-091

There is on file In the Benefits and Counseling Branch, Benefits and

Serylces Division, Office of Personnél, an Official Disablilty Clalm

File on the above named employee (or his dependent*) for an Illness, -

Injury, or death incurred on 23 hout &

This notice should be filed in the employee's Official Personnel Folder

as a permanent cross-reference to the Official Disability Claim File.

SIGNATURE

10. 1076

SENIOILLE

Datelice

NOTICE F OFFICIAL DISABILITY CLAIM FILE

SECRET

---

## Page 6

ta-itetos

Pessonnel, Autions

prir to Mexico City

Assimument

---

## Page 7

SECERT

REPRODUCTION MASTERS

BIOGRAPHIC PROFILE

With

Care

SECRET

3'::

CONFIDENTIAL

(when Filled Ins

NOTICE OF CREDITABLE SERVICE

CROR LEAVE PURPOSES)

PASPARE IN ORIGINAL

FROM STAVIARO PORT NO. JAS AND FORMARD TO FINANCE OFFICE.

flast

FIrst,

113510)"

OFFICE

• (P)

Po..

40

SERVICE COMPUTATION DATEI

24 Dao 1948

79: *27

водо но.

M3R 3#

2 March 2915

-he ratie

37-157

TRANSACTICA! AN

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 8

ORIGINAL

BroGra phic Picafelo

(spurtinel resian in file)

---

## Page 9

14-00009

Pensoniel Heticne

izpac

Mexico Catuy AssiGnment

---

## Page 10

wit

IN

ACCOODANCE WITH THE

FROVISIONS OF PUALIC LAT

87-793 AND DCI

MEMORANOUM DATED 1

AUGUST 1956; SALARY IS ADJUSTED

AS FOLLOWS,

EFFECTIVE S JANUARY 19A4A

NAME

SERIAL

ORON FUNDS

GA-ST

91 900

cP Gs 12 3

OLD

SALARY

8100105

PSSTED EN

0i-40

B. LAN 1964

HEA

SALARY

$10+640

TTTET5N-559459430

•4..*

17925D

6.*

Serial Ma

Mamo

Cort Conter Number

IWOP Hoss

OLD SALARI RATE

64 700

NEW SALARY RATE

CF

Cross

Lost EN Dato

Orado

pSl

TYPP ACTION

438

AOJ.

GS 12 2 8 9,790

11/29/62

6S 12'3

310.10% 11134165

demands and

NO EXCESS LWOP

IN PAY STATUS AT END OF WAITING PERIOD

LWOR STATUS AT EMD DF. HALPING PERIOD

CLERKS INITIALS

AUDITED AY.

• CERTIFY THAT THE WORK OF THE

ABOVE NAMED EMPLOYEE 1S

OF AN ACCEPTABLE LEVEL OF COMPETENCE.

SIGNATURE!

this.

PAY CHANGE NOTIFICATION

DATE TET 163

24

(4-91)

---

## Page 11

14-00000

DLS:

13

k& SEPT 63

пСв

1, SERIAL NUMBIA

$ #AME (LAST FIRST MIDDLE)

J. MATURE OF PERSONNEL ACTION

REASSIGNMENT

• T0 8

y 10 60

TUNDS:

CВ 10 C8

%. ORGANIZATICHAL DESIGHATIONS

DOP /WH

BRANCH

MEXICO CITY, MEXICO STATION

18. POSITION 9091&

OPS OFFICER

10. CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (68, 1D, 06.)

CS

TS. OCCUPATIONAL SERIES

0136.01

TO. REMARKS

SECRET

(Whon filed fo)

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

• PODICTIVE DATE

nо.

091 15163

7. COST CENTER NO. CHARGEABLE

D. CATEGORY OF IMPLOYMIMT

REGULAR

8. ESC OR GIRLE LEGAL ANTEDENTY

4135 570 1n00

18. LOCATION OF O116A3 STATION

50 USC 403 J

MEXICO CITY .

12. POSITION NUMBER

MEXICO

19. SERVICE DESIGNATION.

0418

16. SHADE AND STEP

12 2

D

I7. SALARY OR RATE.

9790

POSTED Di

ACTION 20 Emplor

100€

Code

37

10

23. NOTE EXPIRES

SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OP PERSONNET

81.

OFFICE CODIRG

72. STATION 23. INTEGREE

28. HOStET AS DATE Of BIRTA

CODE

HUMERIC

CODE

Cose

51400

WH

45075

3

79. SPICIAL

REFINEMENI DATA

32. CORBESTION/CANI

104 694A.

REFERENCE

DATA CODE

n. sergery

T 34. 301

87% #3.

LOD DATA

• # 16.4

€ - HONE

IS. VET PALTERINE

T 36. SIR%. COMP. DATE

137

LONG

COMP.

DATE

CODE

но.

18 CAREER CATEGORY

FEGLI/ HEALIA INSURRELE

O. MAINER

1. 768

SCARL SCOURITY NO

41.

PREVIOUS GOVERNSIENT SERVICE BETA

O. NO FARTIONS SERVICE

HI. LEAVE CAI.!

CODE

(460

HAUY

'these

FEDTIAI TAM DATA

coul

MO PAN EXCEPTIONE

44.

Te's

FORE ERECOTEC

,.188

STATE TAX D61X

C50k

TAT STATE CODA

SIGHATURE ON OTHER AUTHENTICATION

FOSTED

Td1/24

8150

11:2

Use Provous

Edition

SECRET

19959

803852/53188

When Filed Ins

---

## Page 12

14-00000

МНС:

31 JULY 63

0C8

1. ЗАВІЛІ МУЖНЕВ

BANS 1088 TO80 80061

A. MATUNE OF PLASONNEL ACTICE

REASSIGNMENT.

SECRET

When Filled In

NOTITICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

• 10 (F

CE TO 0

& EFFECTIVE DATE.

09

63

D. CUSI CAMILL NO CHANGEABLE

4135 5700 1000

1O. LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION

TS CATEGORY OF EMPLOYMENT

REGULAR

I ESE DE OTAIR LEGAL AUTRORITY

50 USE 403 J

D. OACAMIZATIONAL DESIGHATIONS

DDP WH

BRANCH

3.

MEXICO CITY, MEXICO STATION

IT. POSITION PIME

N. ELASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (6% (B; 018.)

OPS OFFICER

GS

IS' OCCIPATIONAL SERIES

0136.01

PA REMARKS

MEXICO CITY,. MEXICO

I7 POSITION NUMBER

PA. SENVICE DESIGHATION

0400

D

14. GRADE. AND STEP

1%. SALARY OE RATE

12 2

9790

PONGED AS

1955

19 ACTION 20 Traplay. | 28.

CODE

Codo

PA.

OFFICE CODING

NUMERIC

64.700

29 SPECIAL

BISERINCE

SPACE RETOW FON EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OVICE OF PERSONNEL

J2 STATIN

100€

13. INTEGREE

CODE

29. M84900

Codo

8S DATE OF BIRTH

ZO DATE OF GRADE

28 DATE OF LEI

naradourte

Pr.

4311/5

CODE

3

SEPARATION • 32. CORRECTION/CANCELLATION DATA

DATA CODE

TYRE

J3 SECURITY

BEO NO.

T14. SEx

EOD DATA

IS VET. PREFERENCE

COOR

BO. SERV. (OMP DATE 37. LONG CRAP. DATE

0s.

JA CAREER CANICORY

I CODE

Besr

FEGLI/ HEALTA INSURANCE

0. 81F822

-BALININE COOK

20, SOCAL SECURITY NO

6038

110n

PRETIOUS GOVERNMENT SERVICE OUTA

NO. AC PREVIOUS SETTICE

3!:

CoaX

87 LEAFE SAT

DOTH GRICUTES, COOL

FEDERAL TAN DATA

NO TASTERNATONS

D4RAN IN DARTITE GISS THAN I POSI

14,

TORS ELECUTEO

,.40

STATE TAX DATA.

SIGNATURE OF OTHER AUT'ENTICATION

FOSTED

25/02/63 215

10x5 1850

Uno Prentous

Endition

SECRET

yor.

i3i0 i

Body brig tol

indi

---

## Page 13

D. Fituess Naperts coiline pillial ifler

Mexico Colin Assetaine

Personnel Aitoons

I. MEXiCO.C.tM.

seen pait

---

## Page 14

SECRET

Fillad la)

FITNESS REPORT

SECTION A

P, NAME

(8.001)

GENERAL

JA. DATE OF DINTA

PUSITION

Ops Officer

B. CHECK INI TIPE OF APPUINTMENT

ORACE

$. 8D

8. OFF/DIY•BR OF ABSIGNMENT

09-12

D

B. CURRENT STATION

Mesoco City

10. CHECK ILI TIFE OF HEFORT

708518668

LA SIGNEN FAUNIVISON

CARTER-PROVIDIONAL (300 InopPuretana - Socilen C)

# P6PB43 46, :.

XX

DEASDIGHMINT INFLOTHE

BRUCIAL (Spocity)!

11. DATE REPORT DUE IN D.P.

18. REPORTINO PERIDO (Prus 8oa)

Daconber 1964

1 Jan 1964 - 22 November 196%

SECTION B

PERFORMANCE EVALUATION

W - Meat

Performonce conges

from wholly inadequere to slightly less phon sorisfactory. A rating in this cotegory requires

'positlue comediol action. The nature of the estion.could range from coursaling, lo lurther training, lo placing en

proborion, lo regssignment de to separatien. Describo oction toben or proposod in Secelon C.

A •Adeavate

Performance muoia all requiremonte, 8o is entiroly satisfactory erid la chorociorired nellhor by delleloney por

oncollence.

p . Prolicion!

Porformanco la moro thon satisfactory. De sined cosulis ore being producod in a proficient mannor.

§ - Strona

Porformance le characterisod by exceptional proliciency.

0 • Quistondina

Performanco le sa encoptional in relation ti reculiamonis of the work and in comparison lo thi porformanco ol

ochers doing similos, work ai lo marrong saecial recognirion.

..:SPECIFIC OUTIES.

List up to

air of tho

mast importans »pocille dutios perlarmed duriny the cating periou.

Insere rating lettos which bast doscribes the

N90188067

dro

which amploydo performe EACH sporitie duiy.

Carosiste ONLY ellecteroness in porformanco of that duty.

All employens

mich suporulsory rosponsibilitica MUST bo rasod on sheir abitira ta supervito (indicare number of amplayros augureiaod).

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 1

RATINO

LETTER

Case Officer for Soviet access agente.

P

PECIFIC DUTY NO. &

Analyst vork, preparing Soviet peramillty reports.

SPECIFIC DUTY NO.1

Tranacription Into English of Russian fecbnical product, and

preparation of interprotative rendition of same when nocessary.

SPECTRIC OUTY NO. 4

3

A A TIMO

LETTER

SPECIFIC DUTO NO. 9

TING

ISPECIESE BUTT NO.8

RATINO

LETTEN

OVERALL PERFORMANCE IN CURRENT POSITION.

renato a spot e che ebod etto eroduchich pot.

thang about che employd which istivarios dos aifocrioo.dde la his euoro..!

fasirlan sual 59 p08-

toa, 010119009810

particulos licatentiona es solora.

Bused on your krumiodge al emplarad'a autrell portunenco during

elico tho tuproe in the conina dor corresponding lo che d'orataa add cose seccatoiy rolloçra dio loval al porforanco.

7 JAY 1065:

*e7 45

SECRET

---

## Page 15

14-00000

SECRET

(whon Fllled ta)

SECTION C

NARRATIVE COMMENTS

Indicaro algnillandarrengthorwookre.... demanatated in curront position tope recommendarione for mainina.

In propor parapective thele colorier drip 1s

Stale suggentlons made for Inarorarent of work por formero.

Circent

on formion languogo comporanco, ll required los currant poslion.

Amply or arisin rollogs alvai In Section U to provide boo

bosla for determining lupuro personnel oction. Mannocol pertormance of moregalol or suportleory dutles must bo descrina

appticoble. As explainod in the provious fitness report,

assignod to the Statio

for the purpose of taking charge of tbe Station's jolst tolophone tap center, a poultior

for which bo was and la ennently quallfled by reauco of extensive experience and out

standing language qualifications.

However, this poultson did not materialine because

of circumstances beyond the control of Subject and the Btation.

It sas therefore subsequently decided to train subject locally, and have him

gradually assune ceso officer an amlyat rosyunibilitleo In certain simpler sapoets

of the Station'a Soviet program.

Olven the circumtancos that subject had not had prior case officer of analytl-

cal experience (or oven any substantial past exposure to operationa to give hin vicari-

ous experience) he progressed more than adequately in absorbing. the tralaing offorod,

in nesuming responaibility. for two Borlot operations mid 1n the préparition of analytice

etudies on the Soviet complement. Olvon the further circumstances that the Station did

not have the tins to train him more than superficially, and that the operationd he

handled vere bastoally uncomplicated; lt wat be stated that Subject cannot now ba

considered to be a case officer..

This consolentious and Intelligent offleer has bich interest and enthua

for operations, but it. 19 belloved that bie forte and luture lles in the management of

technical operations.

This has boon recogniced also by leadquarters In the dealt

presontly planned for hiu.

Ao a staff agent L

remarkably woll to the

SECTION D

he and bie anily adapted themselven

altuation and to all otber environmental factors.

CERTIFICATION AND COMMENTS

BY EMPLOYEE

I CERTIFY THAT I HAVE SEEN SECTIONS A, B, ANO C OF THIS MEPORT

310NA1

DATE

23 Novembor 106%

2.

MONTHS EMPLOYEE HAS BRIN

UNDER MY SUPANÜISION

DATE

23 November 19€4

COMMENTS OF FEVIESINO OFFICIAR

EY SUPERVISOR

TO THIS REPORT NÃS HOY HAN SHOWN TO EXPLOYEE, GIVE EXPLANATION

OFFICIAL TITLE OF SUPRAVISOR

Ope Officer

BY REVIEWING OFFICIAL

¡TYPES ON PAINTEO NAME AND SIONATUAR

#/ Horbert Manell

D47&

23 Horarbor 1964

POPPICIAL TITLE DE REVIESINO OFFICIAL

WHETAGO OR PANTED GUNS AS SIONATESE

cos

i/ #inacon li, dient:

SECRET

---

## Page 16

SECRET

EMPLOTEE BERIAL MUNGER

FITNESS REPORT

SECTION A

• OFFICIAL POSITION TITLE

Operations Ufficer

В. CHECH (HITTPO!

I CAREE

GENERAL

(Mistle)

&. DATE OF BiATH D. DES

A. ORADE (D. $D

6 Jan 1912

M

GS-12

D

7. OFF/DIV/OR OF ADSONMENTO, CURFENTITATION

DOP TH

Mexico City

IQ CHECK IXI PYPE OF NEPORT

TEMPORARY

HEASDIGNMENT BUPHAVIDON

ABADBIONMENTENHLOYEA

кх аннись

SPECIAL (Spacly)!

II. DATE REPORT DUE 19 O.9.

28 February 196+

18, REPORTINO PERIOD (PiON (o)

6 August 1963 - 31 December 1963

SECTION &

W - Just

PERFORMANCE EYALUATION

Potive ren glo tron tally tud dude de lonely do re so lonel, do un in tina do preeing on

probetion, le rossslgnmant or lo separillon. Discritio action roden or proposed In Sectlon C.

A • Adensita

Pretolmenco monto all regulamante. Il la entiraly satisfactory and la characteriaod noleher by deliclency non

excellence.

p. Praficien:

Peiformance lo more thon sotialectory. Desired results are being producod in a proficient manner.

§ - Femang

Porformance la characterizod by arceptional profielancy.

0 • Ousending

perto more lim arceptional levolori protoguragemo ol the work and in comparison lo tha parformanco of

List as to sla of tha mous Importans spocific dutles porformed during the rating perlod. Insert rating lomor which bost deseribos pho

mares in which omployan porforme EACH appellic duty.

Consides ONLY effoctiveness in performance el that duty.

All employees

with segretvisory rosponelbilitles MUST ba rated on thole ability to superviso findleato number of saployads ausorriand

SPECTRIC DUTY NO. T

Translation of Russian and Spanish materials..,

# A PIO

LETTKA

S

SPECIFIC OUTY NO. A

RATINO

LETTER

SPECIFIC CUTY NO. J

RATINO

LETTER

SPECIME DUTY NO. €

CATING

SPECIMIE DUTY NO. S

RA

LETTEA

ПРЕСТЕ ДИТУ NO. В

FACES 2N

12 9366

OVERALL PERFORMANCE IN CURRENT POSITION

Too deso soon are hine, bou ch eye are sich tall, does sit ollecti

lahle culent coalllan such as

10250-09 it apactle

none carsonal torto habit anara

port nintes lipations or rolents.

al anglaron's

parlornarle during the sering posiod.

plain the 1a009 10 pha taring son ecrosgarding to she statemeno unuch moe securstaly rollocto his landi ol postormance. I

11 FE: 381.:

*Ga 45

SECRET

EATING

A7A

S

---

## Page 17

SECRET

NARRATIVE COMMENTS

300to avago spras modo loe Inprovoment of mert performance.

on foreign languago comporence, il required loe currant posicion.

Amplily de saplain ratingo gi

n In Seetion A tO provido beal

sppilcoblo.

he was wild prime if i in a aralyon weico and round Rife go 1965

of heading up the Slation's joint telephone tap center. Circumstances beyond the

control of the Station and Subject are responsible for the fact that the incumbent

in chargo of the center will continue these duties and Subject will be given other

responalbilities.

Primarily, Subject will be trained to handle analyst and case olficer

responelbilities in the Soviot fleld.

The level and range of the responsibilities

will dopend on the, progress Subject makes in handling these duties in a manner

satisfactory to the Station.

Subject de mosi concientious and effective in every assignment slyen him

to'date, and the Station la extremely pleased to have him available an an outaide

Ho is onthusiastic about all his work, including. certain part-time

routine and arduous dutios and he looks forward with confidence to the prospect

of becoming a case officer. Although it is premature to state positively that

Subject will succeed as a case officer, the supervisor belleves that Subject will

undoubtedly progress adequately.

Subject and his family have acclimated themselves excellently to the

aitualion, faster than moat of the Station's other stall agente, and certainly

I CERTIFY THAT I HAVE SEEN SECTIONS A, B, AND C OF THIS REPORT

RUNATURE OF FORLOTTE

IF THIS REPORT HAS NOT BEEN MOWN TO EMPLOYER, DIVE RXPLAVATION

DATE

27 Januery 196l

•3.

COMMENTS OF NEVIEWING OPFICIAL

OPFICIAL TITLE OF SUPCAVIDON

Orerationa, ürficer

BY REVIEMINE OFFICiAL

TYPER OR PRINTEO NAME AND SIONATURE

18/ Hervert Lincll

DATI

29 January 196k

1s9.

STRICTEL TITIR OF REVERING GEFICIAL

calet or Station

VED MAME DAO BIGNATURE

SECRET

---

## Page 18

trat

---

