i
1

4" Member MAR vho vee “respoosable ailitar® for the-HRA to the

of Station, Caracas

t INOUING CaN BE UDCEO
| LB QuatineD na rst One

ine Paragraph’ 2

ls An increasing mumber-of Cutan axiies ara ovw arriving in Venezuela
+ gafevonducta are alowly issued hy tht vad Gevernanct for esylees in
the varioud fureign emdessies ip Hehana wir tock rafage Murtig April 1962.
Anicg these exiles are, sone vbo tock an active part in different uoder-

sroung sad guerrilla groups opposing tbe Castro wo veruanut, Some’ of then
ave now trying to got visas Bo that thay can terre Went thete oladdestio,
Antivities to thair superiors inthe Cuban groups to Mam OP CIARK-1 hae

provided the Station with the name of the followings persons fo this cate-
wory woon be hae matin the course of his activitinn tn trying to help...
re-locate the Cuban exiles now arriving lu the somtry:

Roger Antonio *QUERALT varata - born 1° Hovesber 1907
(38 also

ls ae
Member MHB vbo intends to reportty Rvelio Oia.
WvCA-83 33.

b. Oscar SECHROARAY Carrel - born & April 192k, Member
“MER who intends to report.to Evalio SIGIR tyyather wi th! ORRALT.

Yor
i SAL

cs Ernestine Gorilio *ARRSU Horta - boen L Roveaber nee Qe oxba
LAS

d

province of hatanzas. sho intenia to report t Dr, Oscar BALAS.

4. Lula Barmabe ®BOZA Dowlwmer - born 22 Oetobar 1936 ”
Meaber of the Directorio Estudiantil.

@. Gatllerm Aurelio #8074 Dontnguez - born 2) February
190.. Membar of the Directorio Bstudtantl.l,

f. Rduardo MOARCLA Derlayet - born 25 Harch Lol, Member :
of the Unided Ravolucionaria ‘to used the mere Juan Bautista
Sanches during undergroun’ activities.

2. Since thd local eonsulate no lorger normally temas tourist’ vieas
to any Cuban exiles but insiste on their applying for iwmigration visas,
which require 4. 6.noaks waiting time at a minimin, the Station a
a;prectate any action Baedqierters my web to take throv to ob
authorize the loeal consulate to issue tourist Visas to the’ ove Tamed
persona. . :

ot
[wntes’ oO. anyte( ‘
woot tendal/iepw
29 June 196 |
vistribution : : :
5 - Chier, wD

& -,INWAVE -
2 - Files

Tanouaron | sree T ace | =

