104-10186-10159

| CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

Tole material contains tafcrmatica afecting the Nation! Detease of tte Cuca fates wuibie the meaning of the Beowoney Lava The
UBC Seca TH and TH tbe Lanemimice OF revelation of which T Say Master 10 AB UNeUInareRd Ferwe m prenietted by tae

t SECRET
4 NO FOREIGN DISSSM

i COUNTRY Cuba : BePORT NO. CSCI~316/01254-65
H SUBECT “Contreras” (an alias) ATE OrSTR. 18 March 1965
: NO. PAGES I :
REFERENCES: CS-311/00115-64
. (Page 11)
DATE OF 8 July 1964
Info, 1964
. pce g Washington, D. C.
pate aca. March 1965 FED REPORT NO,

THIS 15 UNEVALUATED INFORMATION, SOURCE GUANAIGS AE CEMNITIVE APPRAISAL OF CONTENT 1 TENTATIVE.

source: A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban
Service until April 1964,

Headquarters Comments r

The following report is one of a series containing pi

Intelligence

ersonality

information provided by the source and includes supplemental

information from the records of this Agency.

It is requested that the addressees take no action o1
the individuals mentioned in the personality reports
first checking with this Agency.

1. “Contreras” is chief of the Laboratorio Quimi
Laboratory - LQ) in tho MI Section (Department of Te

a any of
without

co (Chemical
chnical

Operational Support) of the Direccion General de Inteligencia

(General Directorate of Intelligence - DG1). His su;
Guillermo ARASTAGUIA,.

pounds, and has a medium build, “Contreras" is a mu

Heagquarters Comment .

information on “Contreras.”

perior is

2. "Contreras," a Cuban citizen, is married to "Vidalina™
(see CSCI-316/00741-65, 16 February 1965). He was born between
1930 and 1935, is five feet seven inches tall, weighs about 150

latto)

1. The records of this Agency reveal no  addationat identifiable

: oa

iH SHCRET

7 NO FOREIGN DISSE

2 [esnete noe sree

ph cers
Toe Fat

| [eae Tew Taw Taw Ts
REP CINCLANT CINCSO # tits xs
iNote: Field diatribytion indicated by 7 #*. -

a WALE 1
rena CB (1), WEL (1), Ch 4, RIDY | SMe |

aR me

YasAcY

mene

