rod-0142-(0040
iJ a

a oan

urd

IN SAL USE ONLY

Journal - Office of Legislative Counsel | I7t
‘Tuesday - 15 March 1977

29. (Unclassified - PG) ADMINISTRATIVE DELIVERIES After
consultation with Messrs. Cary and Miller, I delivered the most recent.
batch of FOIA material bearing on the penneay assassination to the staft
of the House Se I was accompanied by
Mr. : A. Sprague, Chief
Counsel, House Select ramittee on A ‘sinations, was not available,
and I spoke with several staff members including Mr. Stephen J. Fallis,
Deputy Chief Counsel, and Mr. Alvin B. Lewis, Jr., Special Counsel.
(See Memo for the Record. )

30. (Unclassified - RIK). LIAISON Received a call from
Dr. Calhoun Cohen, Senate Democratic Policy Committee staff, who
requested a copy of the Agency publication entitled "USSR: Hard Currency
Trade and Payments, 1977-78." Since he wished to have it this afternoon,
arrangements were made for a courier to deliver it to his Russell Senate
Office Building address.

31. (Unclassified - RIK) LIAISON Mr. E.H, Knoche, DDCI, hosted
a breakfast for Freshmen House Democrats, The following members attended:
Representatives Ronnic' G. Flippo (D., Ala.); Harold L, Volkmer (D.,
Peter H. Kostmayer (D., Pa.); Albert Gore,’ Jr. (D., Tenn. )- and Ike S!
(D., Mo.), Following the breakfast, the group, except’ Representative Flippo,
was given a tour of the Agency Operations Center.

32. (Internal Use Only - RJK) LIAISON At his request, picked up
from Charles Snodgrass, House Appropriations Committee staff, 15 copies
of "Intelligence Community Staff FY 1977 Supplemental Budget and FY 1978
Budget" and also transcripts of Mr, E/H..Knoche's, Acting Director,
appearance before the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Defense on
3 February 1977 and WV William I, Colby's, Director, appearance before
the Subcommittce.on Defense on 21 February 1975. The budget books were
turned over to Bill Kvetkas, Jr., Director, Office of Program and Developm
IC Staff, and the transcripts returned to the OLC files subject to call by
the House App ons Conmuittee, Snodgrass said that he had # safe
drawer full of : classified waste, and I told him I would come by
shortly fo pick it up and bring it to the Agency to be desixroyed.

Legislative Counsel

“Ex. So

wid ppt. pp \

Lapham SA/DO/O Corapiraller
Balkiewies IG Staff NIG

