# 104-10167-10389

## Page 1

104-10167-10389

ASTURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Nct Reproduce

TO

3

6

SENDER WILL CHECK CLAS!

'CATION TOP AND BOTTON

LICLASSIFIED

"FIDE TIAL

IXI

SECKET

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

OFFICIAL ROLTING SLIP

NAME ANO ADDRESS

DATE

INITIALS

DC/WH/4

WH/Y/Emance

WK/4/PR-PRGC

103

INORPE

Sr

DIRECT REPLY

DISPATCH

FILE

pil

PREFACE REPLY

RECCAMEMDATIOM

RETURE

ACTION

APPROVAL

COMMENT

CONCURRENCE

Remarks

1I 243 Behere westeould

get mistrustens Relin

Varona to one dour n

hite contes. Flit rose to buy her

FOLO HERE TO RETL A TO/SENDER

FROM: HAME. ADORNES ANY $

UNCLASSIE

8-41 237

Use prenrees editones

COSFIDESTIAL

SECRET

I/BR

---

## Page 2

14-00000

...??.

SEOSET

7 Faly. 1961

Q. Drolles

Tony Varoas

1. I understand that the question of our past $900 per morta

ibsidy to li. Varose hea come up lor discussion recentl

Lowing idget be weful to you as beckground intortion

2. Taste arena 1p tie belled Stetos des of about do lay 1360

and sen Mr.

ang lay of shat year. Durlag this i lay

noting and a seeting on the rolloutas day betweenl

the oder 03

so a a val so, and are t suda repeatody no part for loOs

had been promised la farang by his .

operational plans but elso support for ElE personal seeds.

reiterated that be sus absolitely broice end it van essential tiar he

alone and seals nade a pitch for some personal soney.

20 MaJ, the question as to verther or not le should ald Varon

under the teble, so to upest, us ralsed here in Heedquarters vita

No. Esterline. It mus decided to support Varona sich 1300 per matt

B as Tarons bad requested. Out of tale 1500, Verona would gira

$200 to his chaurfeur/body sard, Frasciseo lejas. It ney be vell to

recall that the rationale for this declain et that tine sas siat...

It. Verona us the bey person sad sossible key Ilgure of the destrallel

anti-Castro organisation ve vere to fart. As of 1 June 1960 sad up

through lovember of that year, 'aron tas pald 3800 per manz by

"HEUR check." Fron Hovember 1500 through Harch 1961, Yaron sa

drer fras the FRD.

3. Verone seens to be bard pressed for money it this illn, espectalt

Mince he 1a nor seferatod tron bie vise sho, as I understand, contral

his checking nocount.

1. As Of 3 July 1961, I ses of the opinion that ve aboall not pay

..Varons anything more under the tebie, but la ties of the Special Grou

SECRET

4/8R

---

