# 104-10217-10166

## Page 1

104-10217-10166

2039508-16°

NOEL

P37,7.344

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

ROUTING

15

ROM

UMWAVE

/i.d

HE CM/SAY

7

ACTION

NO

DDP, ADDP, DO 4, DO/M 3, CA 2, CA/PEG, CA/PROP, CA/O 4, CI, C1/OPS,

CI/IC 22 FL, F1/D. FLINT 2, IW, R1/AN, WH 7, VR, FILE.

AD/CI 2, AD/NE.

JAN 23 2247Z-65 IN 65929

C

DIR INFO LANT PACY BARR CITÉ WAVE 74495.

PE LINTEL TYPIC

AND CONTROL COPIFR

MAICEED

SUPDATAS ANRJAZZ-1 FROM CÈCILIO VAZQUEZ. PARA E BASED UFG-65146. ]

RID: INDEX. FILED 232846Z

REPORT CLASS CONFIDENTIAL CONTROLLED DISSEM

CUBA

DOCTROT

R

ABSTRACT

"DUT

SUBJ: PROPOSED ANNOUNCEMENT AND PRESS COVERAGE OF THE ARRIVAL IN

CUBA OF ELOY GUTIERREZ MENOYO, MILITARY LEADER OF THE SNE

DO1: 28 JANUARY 65

R

PADA: UNITED STATES, MAIMI (22 JANUARY 1965)

UFG-6569,

-SOURCE: A CUBAN EXILE WITH EXCELLENT CONTACTS IN THE MOVIMIENTO

REVOLUCIONARIO DEL PUEBLO (MRP, REVOLUTIONARY MOVEMENT OF THE

IW COMMENT:

PEOPLE). HE HAS BEEN AN ACCURATE REPORTER ON HIS ORGANIZATION

NO DIES ININATION OF THE ATTAGNEO

1D PORT:ON 19 HIS CABLE NAS BIEN

MADE OUTSIDE THE AGENCY PENDING

RELEASE BY THE ACTION UNIT.

R

RELEASING I WO

DATE DISTRIBUTED

SECRET

TDCS

I ROUTINE

BASED ON:

LiAISON

PRIORITY

201-269349

23JAN'1665

AUTONATA

FOR 1 389

N90181

SETONI

858B49:309

OBUEROK

---

## Page 2

560 0 0383 81075AS -aliA, o

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

AFG. $66

ROUTING

2

FROM

ACTION

INFO:

FEB 3 16 43 AM '65

IN 65928 PAGE 2

AND ON GENERAL EXILE POLITICAL DEVELOPMENTS SINCE ABOUT MID-1962.

. ::

(it!

15:

carras

a Cater ol

iN COMMENT.

i was tilt title todd

з '!'..

=::=

RELEASING I WO:

Ü

DATE DISTRIBUTED, .

IDCS

ROUTINE

BASED ON

MAISON:

SECRETI

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

GROUP 1

PRELUDID PAON AUTOMATI

AND

DECIASSIFICATION

I PRIORITY

Coor No

---

## Page 3

CONFIDENTIAL

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

Intelligence Information Cable

COUNTRY

DATE OF

INFO.

TDCS

DISTR

• SUBJECT

PLACE &

DATE ACQ.

SOURCE

AND

APPRAISALS

REF

FIELD REPORT NO.

iN 65928

ON 28 JANUARY 1965 CECILIO VAZQUEZ, CONFIDANT OF ELOY

GUTIERREZ MENOYO, MILITARY LEADER OF THE SEGUNDO FRENTE NACIONAL

DEL ESCAMBRAY (SFNE, SECOND NATIONAL FRON OF THE ESCAMBRAY),

OUTLINED THE PROCEDURE WHICH THE MRP - ALPHA-66 - SENE ALLIANCE

IS TO FOLLOW WHEN THE TIME COMES TO ANNOUNCE GUTIERREZ: PRESENCE

IN CUBA.

?. "IN ABOUT 38 TO 48 DAYS" THE ALLIANCE IS TO CALL A PRESS

CONFERENCE IN MIAMI TO ANNOUNCE OFFICIALLY THAT GUTIERREZ IS IN

CUBA. OUT-OF-TOWN NEWSMEN WILL BE INFORMED OF THE CONFERENCE

ABOUT FIVE DAYS PRIOR TO THE EVENT TO GIVE THEM TIME TO ATTEND.

CONFIDENTIAL

..STATE/INR DIA ARMY/ACSI MAVY AUR JES SECDIF NSA MIC NO USLA OC ONE OCE ORE

00

worn in.!'

:?....

---

## Page 4

14-00000

PLICE COSTROLS ABOVE TOP BLACK LINE AND BELOW ROTTOS BLACK LINE

++-+900-09-48-5548

MTO 8-64 (20

IN

IN 65920

CONFIDENTIAL

TDCS

PAGE

3. THE ONLY "PROFF" THAT GUTIERREZ IS IN CUBA WILL BE

"PHOTUS OF GUTIERREZ AND HIS MEN INSIDE CUBA." VAZQUEZ SAID THEY

-. DID NOT EXPECT TO MAKE KNOWN ANY MILITARY FEAT BY GUTIERREZ, JUST

HIS PRESENCE IN CUBA.

4. TED EDDIGER, AP CORRESPONDENT IN MIAMI, AND LA PRENSA,

A SPANISH-LANGUAGE NEWSPAPER PUBLISHED IN NEW YORK CITY, ARE TO BE

GIVEN "THE BEST PHOTOS.". EDDIGER GAVE GUTIERREZ A NEWS PHOTOGRAPHER'S

CAMERA BEFORE HE LEFT MIAMI AND LA PRENSA HAS BEEN NOST COOPERATIVE

IN PRINTING ALLIANCE NEWS RELEASES IN THE PAST.

": 5. AFTER THE NEWS CONFERNECE A NEW YORK TIMES CORRESPONDENT

IS TO BE EXTENDED A PRIVATE INVITATION TO VISIT GUTIERREZ IN

• CUBA: HE WILL BE TRANSPORTED THERE AT ALLIANCE EXPENSE AND WILL

BE ASSURED THAT THE TRIP "WILL BE SAFE, WITH A MINIMUM OF RISK."

VAZQUEZ TALKED OF TRYING TO INTEREST TAD SZULC OF THE NEW YORK

TIMES IN MAKING THE TRIP. IT IS FELT THAT THE TIMES WILL ACCEPT

THE OFFER'TO "PULL A SCOOP" AND SEND A STAFFER. IT HAS BEEN DECIDED

TO ACCORD THIS INVITATION TO THE TIMES BECAUSE IT IS FELT THAT THIS

NEWSPAPER IS THE MOST RESPECTED IN THE WORLD. THE ALLIANCE WANTS

THE PRESTIGE OF THE TIMES COVERAGE WHEN WORD OF GUTIERREZ' EXPLOITS

IS MADE KNOWN THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.

Pi:" 6. FIELD CONMENT: THE SAME SOURCE PREVIOUSLY REPORTED THAT

VAZQUEZ HAD ADVISED THAT IN ABOUT EARLY FEBRUARY, WHEN GUTIERREZ

CARRIES OUT SOME TYPE OF ACTION INSIDE CUBA, A PUBLIC ANNOUNCEMENT

..WOULD BE MADE. VAZQUEZ SAID THIS NEWS WOULD BE DIVULGED BY THE

- CONFIDENTIAL

2

---

## Page 5

14-00000

PLACE CONTS. S NIOVE TOP BLACK LISE AND BELOI, BOTTOM BLACK LINE

IN U3)-0

• IN

CONFIDENTIAL

TDCS

NEW YORK TIMES.

TO FIELD DISSEM: CINCLANT, CINCSO, COMKWESTFOR, MIAMI REPS

OF STATE,. FBI, CUSTOMS, I&NS, BORDER PATROL AND USCG.

MPO $44 126

PAGE

3

(END OF MESSAGE)

CONFIDENTIAL

---

