104-10178-10168

sfpl

‘ IAN TO CIA.
eicrardrestteer eee raund Use On j

of ggeBap Not Reproduce

Local Pile

Report Kade By; Panoce/0 : vi r
Distribution: : . i ro) :
By copy to: 3 = Wash” : Orally to: t 7 oy 4)
2 = Hedy "1 ~ sUSIAG), 1 = utSz 1 = SKAL 1 = Shop,aareneoes
1 = Subject) 1- File _ porvennt HE ay &
1 = Gary 1 = Gad as :2=4925 ina tA Sy

vo-(6 »
eat

| fe the in contained in tho attachéd report was obtainedtiyough interrogation
| Sf. Spas Todoger' kin, Zdravko Kostadt;
i

Source, Operational Data, and Comsente:

foosysnor and Stefan Poti) Weltekov,
“ruidovake who dessrted their unit worl the Balchik airfieid-and made their way
to..Plovdiv saa"Than go arweoee Ce eee

HE \ po SN

j 2 The reason for their desertion was to join an alleged illegal group working in the
‘ mountains south of Plovdiv. Their contact was a kaster S t who rasided in Plovdiv

ir
and who supposed to put them in contact with the illegal group, The Serceant became
‘frightened and refused to do go. From 7 May until 19 June the croup wandered around -
the mountains getting provisions froa relatives and frianda, Thay finally sould hold

j out no longer and entered Greace on 19 June a)

13, spas Todorov Raikin wae born 26 October 198%, in Zelenikovo (RA 7729), He is

° single and has two brothers, Petur and Stoyu, who are farmers in Zelenikovo. His
father, Todor Petkov Kaikin, is living and is a farmer also. Subject finished the
theoloyical Seminary in Plovdiv and the Theological Faculty in Sofia, i» then taught
for one year on the Sofia Msoulty, fe.was then called up on & April 1950 for his
military service and assigned to the 309 Podolenie (Trudovak) at Jezmer airfield, on
22 December 1950, ha with his unit were transferred to the Bulohik airfield where they
bscane Podslenie 5463, lis deire to desert was to join in the fight against cosmuniem
‘in the name of the Bulgarian Orthodox Church. men he found it would be impossibls to
do so insiae Buljaria, -he decided to ascape to Greece and join such a church group
there, if duoh existed. In the event there was no existing church group, ne desires
to form such @ militant illegal church group to fight communiem inside Bulgeria.

4. Zdravko Kostadinov Damyanov wan born 6 September 1928 in Belashtitea (PF 4692), He
is single and prior to his induction into the Trudovaks was @ farnar on tne family fara
where ho lived with his father, Kostadin Geor;iev Demyanov, his other, Stoina, aed 45,
and his sistera, Vasilka aved 18, Stofka aed 3, snc brothers Yordan aged 16, Nikola,

and Zhivko. -The latter two voys are in grade school. Subjsot graauated from the Plovdiv
high sohcol in 1949 and spent one yesr on tne fara prior to Aig induction. H+ served

in the sae unite as Naikin and was inducted ths same day.

yy

oe c TH boy

eal aid
rei FILE foee. aT
conan \ Vaan | wt



ji sECKEY

: : 2 ease 2. : : ce i
Sarena)

{&- Stefan Patrov Feltekoy was bora 11 Layoh 1929, in Erani Pale (RF 4994). :
single and prior te his ailitary service he lived at jiome with his father, Poutr, 2
mother, Velika, aud ais sister Laria, ased.26 (now imprisoned by-the State Sedurity ‘on.
17 May and has not been heard from since} He finished high school in Plovdiv im 1969 ©
and went to work as a laborér in a governsient automobile repair shop in Plovdiv, On
5 April 1950 he was Grafted into the Trudovaks and his military service is identical
with the other aoe J : ae

(6. During interrogation, a11 three nen have cooperated extremely well and hive been
able to give scod concise information on the various projects whe

“yc REE


al

eee ree an oe er bt

Subject: Construction of the Berner Airfield Date of Info) 5 April to 22 Dece 1960
Pleoo Aoquirod; Growve, athone = Date Aogitved; 9 July 2962 '
Byaluationy CoS Data of Reports 9 uly 1962 :

Soureo, Fron 6 fairly reliable source hose informants oro) Spas Todorov Rxikiny
Zdravko Kostudiacy Danyanoy and Stefen Petrov Paltokoy, all former laborere
on the airfield. :

eprint



Tas ee. OW RES

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE. AGENCY.

ca
: COUNTRY Bulgaria OATE DISTR: 22-Auge 1952,

SUBJECT Construction of Bersor Airfield NO.OF PAGES 2 ;
, : :
PLACE “NO: OF ENCLS. -
ACQUIRED Greece, Athens (usico actow
Date OF INFO : SUPPLEMENT TO.
& April = 02 December 1950 » REPORT NO.

T GRADING OF SOURCE COLLECTOR'S PRELIMINARY. ORADING OF CONTENT.

ee ee a
LETELY/ USUALLY * | FAIRLY ld wot er BY OTHER
ROME SC, [ae ta ne Hie ae [fer

. + : ee : ‘
SOURCE Through a fairly reliable source whose inforsants were Spas Todorov Raikiny :

Zdrovin Kostadinov Damyanov and Stefan Petrov Peltekov, all former laborers -
1” on the airfield, ‘

: 1, he attached report on the constriction of the airfield at Beruer te-forvarded —. :
for your information, :

2. It fe requested that thie document be returned to this office by 21 September 1951, |

3. An evaluation would be appreciated. i

CLASSIFICATION SECRET
OISTRIBUTION

Fan


1
|
i
i
|
i
|

“8. The Cirat Trudovak wits brought ta to conionee work on the nirfleld arrived S.Aprix

THIS ISS Zévatoai EU lar unlda OWS,

os ’ er t
a warty pes? eH eg waa? bogua.w' the Box Y airfiold Losited tke

fae.

“Wilomstars southve’s of vho Beamer rakluay station cathe Plovairevaxtol Lines fer 2

Patter orientation, the cirfiold 42 lovated tires and oad half Mlmoters southout

2 tha wALlngs of Baranr (RB.66S4), tio elonscera north of Yolyerelo (RE G228)_ and ©
Eto and ono MAL idewotare coulhece® of Bogsd}ik (23 6004), The stvtholé Leah 4
Lsonted 720 evters south of.the railway lines :

1950 ond steyod there until coxpletion on 22 Vacembar 1950 of ths mummy. The follow =
Ang units ond their approximite etrength wers used id the ocnatruotion of tle alrlidleas

Podelyaio 306 « 625 men
Pocslonie S07 ~ <90 men 5

* Fodolenie S00 = S00 mn .
Podvienio $09 = 200 nea et -
Podoleate 322» 200-nen i

3. Padelonia $05 and SO? were used for mixing and pouring the conarote, on thy rumumys
Podulanie 30S wau uted in the etone quarry to the north of the airfield. Vodelente Se
ao the traagport Fudelente and their job was to furnish, drive and unload truoka,

narrow gouco woxet oure, ‘and horseedram venialec, Podclenie 32k tae a teshaloch
Pacelente whtoh Inoludsd sngincere or spsoialists who teatod said, water, concrete end
aay other olsuents ueod in the construction of the aivftsid. Thara wna ane Sorint
eazineay and « nal) group of about five Soviot ypacialists who warked en the alvficld
ab tho besinsing, and lutor vicited the airfiole every tro or thrsa dayes ‘thorv wero

no Bulgerian Air Yoreo offieora at the field, out aush offiears did psy ossceional

vieita to abrorye the progreso of the field. ..

4. The flels 4a dong oonctruated primarily ou a Jat Cighter field. ‘The main nunway
‘An 2,509 aotors Long, with 160-noter parking spsces on either end, and 1¢ 0 avture wides
Qa sither aids of the runray ore flat turf Flelda which oon de wed es auclilary rumaye
in good wouthor. These oxtend along the entirs lem:th of the emomvte rumey and are
150 muterc wide, Tho turf field te the north of thi main rumay tu eroseod by wedeemyz
which lsad to & planned auxiliary conorete rummy to be built da the futuro. tha
d\menzione of thid plenned rummy are not know.

Bs a tho aurthonos cida of the ulrfield are vlght Witleinga of a tomporsry nature
whioh wero uted to housd troops and oquipmonts

SECREL


SS SECRET:

nie

6 The slavtrickty for flood Lights cad ordinary lighting my obtained fron Yambols
Plocd ltynta ware placed on the tury ransay to the north of the mein runway abou
waters from tha conorets sige and spsosd about 60 astare apart. Tho: turare holdt
the flocd Lights were approxiantoly ten (10) sovers atshs «Tiere wore threardlos trio:
cub-stations on the airfield, along the gonarety runny, aud one sarzioing the variaw
temporary buildings and loonted in thatr nierty :

Te Thora we one Soviet officer and ssyart2 Swiet olyilien workare iho.used a. power.”
drill scar tho Trudovek winter quortorae This drill rus aimilsr,’ but on -n voh larger’.
sosio, te w woll drill, and the Soviets told tha Trudovwka that thoy ware drilling for -
water. There vere good woter walls on tho airfield alroady end during the entire tine
af construstion the Soviets drilled 4a the gece hole continuously. ihat thoy ware:
drtiling Cor ia not knowas a : i

8. The concrete runway wae aAde up of the folloxing elemmnts, after the curfsoo earth
had been renoveds :

Bs A layor of sifted varthe -

De Soa sand, 20 centiueters in denth watch was tarpod hy cvshanioal wens, Tho” |
gem sand wan drought fron # drxoh one kileuster south of burges oslled +
“svartal Pyasaohen", and was dug with a irsge sand shovel in we sina 2010s

Ge A lnyor of tar pepers :

dy Cenant dlooks, 20 aantinetera thick, nexagcnal in whapa, eaoh eido boing 1697
eters, conpound of anud, (quantity vaknora), three typou of gravel, (fino,
rediua, end large), and 360 kilograse of cesant, all of which res maxed with
ester dn @ gonerave mixers Tho propertionn of ths gravel ary not knorn, dub ;
tuey are deaocibed aa follows,

Pinoe-gravol up to aad inaluding the iso of 9 pes
Hadiur-sizo botwosn a walnut aud an egg
Larjeeeslco of an orange

Yale gravel wae onllod oovrospondingly firat, sueond, and third "freotion"s
(Mo oubte asters ef prupared ocuarete were uted in suo dlouke ¥

Se the nsthed of opsretion usnd in ccnatructing the runway wos to first dig ous the
top ach] Soa the ruminy and veo rollars over ite entire length. ‘to layoro of send,
Ag canticeters eask, waro then poured on a3 clesteie "yibrater", bulgerion
monutncture "SLPROM, with & 750 kllogres atrizing powsy, wae used to pound eaok layer
in, thas siving 9 2Qweatineter tuviuasa for an initiel 2¢ centixeters. The alr
atrip war than sovored over oarplotely with isimgnated tar paper, after which the
engisours aoat encafudly oid out the pectarns to o9 mado with ths caneat bicolor. The
gurgat was poured into haxngantl fravos iu eltemats cpacex, thon taapod into the
fennz sith c woodaa treipor and evened of oa the tep wita @ sell wocden Srenol, Tha
lost was than ellowad ts dry fron bstrsan aaysn end odgnt how's, until tha ecnarate
solidified. Tha sides of tht alternste dry blooks ors then covered with a single
leper af tar papar axtendlag frou the Dovton af the block to the top, and ths altemate

spas

Spaoea were than filled in the follewing dey, to Cors u somplota pettera of bloc.



+ patterns -2oz0Uinss had « cap tip Xocad “ountioaters

SECRET

he

The prepsred epsoos for blocks vera placed wider water from four.to elx days prior.
to pouring acrarete, in omer to dotarmine eny sintege.. In Conitng the cattercs, the
dlocks ‘Arouid-a-contral dlock soagtiits hed cnshleracke, but. the Dlooky deoreca:

The gap wis tilled ping
the botion sith tar papor, anc alter, te block pattenis sure completely. diy, Se
large orvoke woro thea filed the. rout of the wen with. tary

30, i tho beginning, nino-congrete tiliiors were ussd and dividid into'tro gremeas
(zavod), with vaoh used in witoracte”arene an’ tha yummy. grozroseod. “Sowoie. the ends.
Kowever, in order to axpacite the finsuhing of the Cleld, thirty alxers were ured.
which Wore divided into four groupe, and-one weaorva rouge” Tho eaatsra.cnd of the”
rummy tau begun first, and fron the eastom md to the midmiy cork until the cropertiesn
and quality’of material wero strictly adherod:to. Rqvever, crat-diftioulty.wia
enaouatored 4n obtaining ‘tha anount ahd ‘else of gravel neaded; aga recult the cone
struction of the last half wae not up td atonderd, .

Ll. Up watil 22 Deosnder 1950 no persanout Angtalletions had beea built ar started. -
and plane for such future sonstructions both aboveground end undexgrouid, ure setnorns’

Af. Attaohsd'arve threo sketonod shoiring the location af the cirfiotd and various
vonntruation details, resprotivolys

We ALL coordinates are GSGS 1,250,000 Series. Bulgariae

SECRET



ate o4
SHOUTING. LICATIC OF
Benen AIRFIELD

Ae Toutlovak barracks

"By Keen ond Comfesary

G. Roadduarters Trudovak battelicns Office
foe ongineers and tocanicul persomels

De Corzugated sheet netal hangoro 50 meters
long, 20 noters wide and 15 motore highe-

E. Wintar barracka for Trudovaks
P, vroposed site for kitebon ond garege
Qe Storage aroa for coxent

He Guard Poot

sECRED

- S6CRED *

Xv


00000

LESEND..

RA+a ROAR &
" Drainase Cawars «

CILAIEINTS? « “Ty To, e Raans =
vo . e
ta

Le, clr» -
: t HE €40s65 204d .

VYtaets A @E «
and subxitted to an interuodiate source Apeges, Stars 760,000, —

If

RAiway STATION @
Drarg by “inform

" SKETCH SHORING ‘THE LOCATION oP TaE
~BBEMER AIRFIELD”

ge

se mm ee ce ert eee ane emmy TE ee

sa



a : : Eh i = {
a i ys 63 Py fae

SHETOH -B °

" BEALL@D SXSTOM OF DSZHER AUICTELD cons snverion

Oe Projected auxiliary .runtaye - :
Ds Mata runTaye oe .

Be Lo points on runway for drainoge purpoces,

Pe. ‘Sower graten, ;

@. Drainmige cone

BH. Covered ditah into which drainage cenol eaptiors

J. Open ditchen' which cervy off drainage tomerd Rolyarakoe —

Ke Yerking orva for olrerafte

I, Rood torent Bernas

Ml, Various tutldings

No Mangoro : é 2 :
0. Vacant fold os

P. Dieatence botwoon runmay ond hargera--~500 netorae

Q. Light poles with flood lights, :

Re Transformor sub-atations

To Sketeh of blocks used in runvay ocastruction; each 197 cm long, 20 ca thidks

fkoten showing construction dotatles tamned carth, sand(20 ea thick); tur
papery commat blocks cnd tere

SECRET
a ee


1400000

+" SECHET -

ame iimaalitie

Dram by‘informants fron meuory and suteditted to internediate source
. —

clasene wee cemrsieeestiieseron oo


4-90000

SECT

STM C, CMUEET PLOCY. CCMSTHUCTICN OF aR AIRYIELD

jeeaeenenae “Ty ee wee we

SECRET

Dram from momory by informants
ond subaitled to an intermediate swurct.

“ibe

BEZMER.

ae eee eect den, os ne rr a


PS

a
3.

SECT

Palgeria oa
Construction of Sasuer Aisfield

Groves, Athans

6 April © 22 Decander 1960

Through w fairly reliable source whose inforsants vere Syas Todorov Jatkin,
Téravko Kostadinoy Tamyanoy snd Stefan Petrov Peltakev, all former laborers

on the airfiold.

fhe attached report on the construction of the airfield at Bermer is fonmried
for your infornation,

Ut Ae requested that this dosunent be mturned to thie office by 21 Septeaber 1901,

An evaluation would be appreciated.

SSRN a Atr on loan
PCE

