104-10185-10128

CENTRAL f AGENCY

i Decsese of the United Siuten within the meaning of the Diptonaxe tase Tie
hun to wuy sianece teas Ula S nut pence Us pRnTaiAt By lew,

Tau materia! coutaltie information afecting the Kat
Ak CSC, bee TH and TH, the trenambatod of frematcs of

7
DISSE
county Cuba REPORT NO, CS CI: 316/00643-64
SuuIECT Guillermo ARASTAGUIA DATE DisTR, 12 August 1964
NO. PAGES 2. ‘i

RerereNces CSCI-3/779 803
CS-311/00115-64

pcg s, Tashington, D. C.

ACQ. August 1964 FIELD REPORT NO,

VATED INFORMATION. SADINGS ARE DIFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

4 former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence
Service until April 1964. P)

SOURCE:

Eeadquarters Comments

The following report is one of a sories containing personality
information provided by the source and includes supplemental
information from the records of this Agency.

It is requested that addressees take no action on any of
the individuals mentioned ia the e personality reports without
first checking with this Agescy

m "Rene," is the chief of the

sa] Support (MI) da the ‘
(General Directorate of RETURN TO CIA

1. Guillermo ARASTAGUIA, pseud
Dopartment of Technics] Opera:

Direcciton General de Intelise
Intelligence ~ DGI). He was formerly the secretary of Background Use On

Ramiro VALDES in the Depart. ate ce Segu: ad del Estado 1
(Dopartment of State See! ~ DSE), but ARASTACUIA was a. Do Not Reprouuce
follower of Anibai ESCALANTS and becauso of a problen

concerning ESCALANTE and because ARASTAGUIA was believed to

,bo a homosexual, VALDES transferred him to the DéI ARASTAGUIA

went to the Youth Festival in Helsinki as a representative

of the DGI and has traveled to Moscow three times.

2,  ARAST.GUIA was born in 1934, is about five feet seven inches
in height, has blond hair and green eyes. He is fat, has a
chin that juts out, lips that are somewnat sunken, agd has a
rather high pitched voice and seems effeminate, 11215

cuarte-s Comeats
1. A report dated 6 October 1960, from =
Source, provided a list or Cuban Comnum waillerss

ARRASTIA, aka “Rene," cossidly identical with Guille
ARASTAGUIA, was included and described as a first lieutonaat,

SECRET

Meme



ral

ratte

ARRASTIA was repurted to have the confidence
DES; and he was VALDES‘ righthand

An official roster listing the military staff personnel comprising
the intelligence Department, G~2, of tho Cuban wfinistry of the

ed Forces (iiNFAR) was received by a representative of this
Ssency from an untested sourca in a report dated 1 March 1961.
Included on this list was one First Licutenant Guillerno

ANRASTIA Fundora, possibly ideatical with Guillermo ARRASTAGUIA.

In a report dated 28 October 1962, a list of identified and

Suspected Cuban intelligence officers wis ncluded, the list was
Lieutenant Guillerzo Fundora was included
on the list and described as at idontified intelligence officer
on the G-2 Headquarters staff.

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

