# 104-10185-10154

## Page 1

104-10185-10154

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

Tish

11, 0.00.

COUNTIN CUDA

BUNECT Ramon Cesar CUENCA

SECRET

NO FORKIGN DIESDI

RePORT NO.

DATE DISTR

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

CSCI-3/782 2PPUBINTO CIA.

28 June. Bedkground Una Only

Do Not Repreduce

1

CBCI-3/777, 808

DATE O

INFO.

1063/1964

Washingtos, D.C.

DATE ACO, MAY IDEA.

HELD REPORT NO

THIS IS UNEVALUAL?

APPARAL O'C

SOURCE

A foror Cuban 18 officer who serged with the Cusan

• Intelligence Bervloe untll April 1064.

Readquartero Comment. The following report in one of d

series

containing personality information provided, by the

source and includes mupplemental inforation from the

records of this Agancy.

TS v

Haron Cesar CUMICA in the chiaf of the Illoral Dapartment

Sor Central Acerton, Including Mexico and Prosma, for

the

Direccion General de Inteligencis (DGI - Gonerol' Directorate

In approximately september or October

of Intejlirence."' poland and van vaniaced fn the Illegal

1963 CUSHC went

Inparicent by pseudony "hilk."

From Decembar 1963 unttl

February. 1964 CUNCA was in Mexico and while there and

interulous with foberto CABTALLAMOS of the 81 SaLVado%

communiet farty.

Meadguarters Comment.

1.

Th» records of this Agency reveal no additional

1dentiflable Inforration

on Baron Cesar CUENCA aside

fron that which

"tha pagaed in the mborn rateranoed cuct..

ST ATH

DIA

FeRY

REP CINCLANT

HAVY

CINCSO #

IENS

INFORM

VH/3,7L03

WHY SA/ROB

J1/5/2

WH/MADR

0H731/8

WH /SA/CT

TO D/AN

WH/ NAY&

50/920, 1.1 (32, 0rd.

RID 1

TBI

LeA

- 1523

NO PROJECT

(ALOUG-I)

CSCI-91722.055

EXIDOSAAFAPDIIE

120-138948

---

