# 104-10130-10088

## Page 1

104-10130-10088:

TOTAL COPIES

SECRET

35-2 RUN BY

35315%

EPRODUCTON ILOITTHAI

SOUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITE

IRBON/UNIT NOTIFIRO_

STAFF

RYANCE SOPY IIZUEDISLOTTER

BY

_ẠT

•CTION UNIT

AT. FILE.

VR. DCI (THUERMER) ODO,

2

EURS

N

F

ICTION A

ESRF, IPlAN, SS4, ClOPa, OSG,

OSGIC

SECURTA

T 079937

El A258.

SAGE D1

CLOPS, PSIEGESTSE

OPSLITG5 CCSa

IN 604172

C/OPS/PSI

TORIALOZTE JUN 75

PSI/FOC

57800

G/ED

TADC/CD T

SECRET 101600Z JUN 75 STAFF

C/CD/

C/SSD

57800

DC/SSD

C/SSD/

TO I DIRECTORI

RC/SAL

PPAD

MHORDERI

Files

1, ACCRODING TO AFP RELEASE, FRENCH TELEVISION CHANNEL

ONE WILL CARRY SERIES OF FOUR INTERVIEWS THIS WEEK CONCERNING

ROSTTIKE

CIA ROLE IN U,S, AND ABROAD. INTERVIEWS OF TEN MINUTES

DURATION EACH WERE CONDUCTED BY ORTE REPORTER MICHEL ANFROL

de

ie.

AND WILL BE SHOWN AS FOLLOWS:

•A: TUESDAY, 10 JUNEI FRANK STURGIS, FORMER CHIEF_ DE

AERIAL SECURITY IN CUBA, ONE OF THE WATERGATE BURGLARS, WHO

CLAIMS TO HAVE PREPARED SEVERAL ASSASSINATION PLANS AGAINST

CASTRO.

B, WEDNESDAY, 11 JUNE AND FRIDAY, 13 JUNE: HARRY

ROSITZKE, CIA DIVISION CHIEF AND KGB SPECIALIST, WHO EXPLAINS

AND DEFENS WORK OF THE AGENCY:

C. MONDAY, 16 JUNES PHILIPPE THYRAUD DE VOSJOLI

(TOPAZS (SIC), FORMER SDECE REP WASHINGTON, WILL GIVE HIS

OPINION OF THE CIA AND ON "ASSASSINATION ATTEMPTS AND THE

KENNEDY AFFAIR"..

• SECRE

---

## Page 2

CABL.,EEC DIODEMEY.

PRASON UNIT NOTIPIRO

ARYANGE COPY

ACTION UNIT

-PER

TOTAL COPIES

SECRET

RUN BY

IPRODUCTION BY OTMEN TH

SUING OFFICE IS PRONIBITE

STAFF

_IY

AI

PF.

FILE.

VR

2

N

5

ACTION A

T 079937

E 1A258

PAGE 02-02

TOR:101829Z JUN 75

TN 604172

57800

2, SINCE THIS STRICTLY FRENCH TV PRODUCTION, EXPECT

NO REPERCUSSIONS FROM UNION RE DE VOSJOLI ROLE.

3,

FILE: MHORDER, EZ IMPDET

--

SE C

R

E T

---

