404-10057-10022|

PROCESSING ACTION

“DISPATCH i ava, [et CRET

Chief, SB x NO INDEXING REQUIRED

foray auaurien pesx
[can JuDGe iNoexinG

MARKED FOR INDEXING.

lwiceoFU

AZPA-2524, 20 May _ Sn Oy ¢
: VLA

Attached are three reports, as explained in para 2 of

~ Reference,.on-the following topics:

. Marina and Lee Harvey OSWALD .
Soviet Defectors KLIMey (aca, Goncrsya)
K b2nacwaye

Travellers Checks (Addendum

Ct hhon~

Kenneth H. PHILBROOK

Attachments: - Herewith
As stated above - 2 copies each

Distribution: Document Number 2 206 - -4393

-C/SB w/atts i for FOIA Review on FEB t/

= As of Nov 73 file review, these att: |
removed for titiing filing: | - ee

AEMAKEUP DEBRIEFING - Final Reports, ©
CIA, April-July 68, eperees

~~ Ure

GROUP I = EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC je aE AND DECLASSIFICAT IO:
fii:

[DSPATCH SvibOL AND WOMBER 7 ATE
AZPA=2534 5 June 1968

Ty ASIEN Tas FE WON
SECRET 74-6-478/2

Dov



Marina jand Lee Harvey OSWALD

The subject of the OSWALDs was introduced into the
interrogation during a discussion about the difficulty a
Soviet citizen, who marries.a foreigner, encounters in
attempting to leave the USSR if the KGB chooses (fer some
reason) not to permit the Soviet citizen to emigrate.

Subject stated that it goes without saying that prior to
receiving KGB's sanction not a single Soviet citizen, whether
he or she is married to a foreigner, would be allowed to
leave the USSR.

Asked if the case of Marina OSWALD's departure from
the Soviet Union was typical, Subject replied that her
departure from the Soviet Union was neither typical nor usual,
particularly in view of the fact that her husband, Lee Harvey
OSWALD, was'a very strange. individual, He had been in Cuba,
and then came to the Soviet Union not as a tourist, but as
an American defector who renounced his American citizenship
and attempted to become a Russian citizen. This in itself
4s unusual for ‘an American - it is not typical and very rare
for an American to do so, and Subject believed that an
American doing what OSVALD did (seeking Soviet citizenship
and renouncing American citizenship) could only do so because
he was a. traitor, 3

In answer to a request for his opinion regarding the : )
OSWALD case, Subject said that all of his. information was based
only on what was known to everyone who read the newspapers
after the KENNEDY assasination and on what he read in a con=
densed version of the Warren Report while he was in Western
Europe. When pressed for his personal opinion he said it was
a very unusual situation, Normally a Soviet citizen (like
Marina) would not be allowed to leave the Soviet Union, in
fact the Soviet authorities would try in some way to convince
the citizen not to leave, However, if a Soviet married a
foreigner, and insisted on leaving he or she could always, as
a. last resort, be refused an exit visa. “There have been =

cases where. a Soviet citizen married a foreigner and received
an exit visa, however, in such cases the Soviet authorities
requests only because they felt

have conceded to the exit vi
that the foreign spouse may
have created adverse publicity for the Soviet Government had
the exit visa not been granted, This was definitely not so
in OSWALD's case, OSWALD could not insist that Marina be
granted an exist visa since he was not in a position to do s0,
and consequently the Soviet authorities were not compelled to
do so unless they specifically wanted to let her go to America
with OSWALD.

When asked-to still further elaborate on his beliefs
regarding the cas: ot stated that in this case (OSWALD's),
Subject couldn't guess, and in order to come to any kind of a
valid conclusion he would have to know something (factual),
which he doesn't. His opinion, however, is strictly an

opinion without any basis or fact. He thinks that KGB was
definitely interested in OSWALD while the latter resided in the
USSR, To presume that OSWALD could have lived in the Soviet
Union as a simple American is excluded, Subject believes that

WBAT SECRET
AZCA SEM, & June 68 : Ler #8 | .



the KGB kept OSWALD in "their field of vision" and
undoubtedly worked with him. To Subject it is unthinkable
that the KGB would miss such an opportunity, since it
always considers using persons (such as OSWALD) for work
either directly in intelligence, as an agent, or in any
other way "to-inflict damage to the West",

Asked whether the assad(nation of President KENNEDY
could be considered as "being damaging to the eee Subject
answered in the affirmative.

Subject explained that the existence of a government
such as the United States is a threat to the Soviet regime,
The United States is an example to the rest of the world -
(Soviets included) that people can live, survive, and have
a higher standard of living in a democracy. Therefore, the
Soviet Union tried, and tries, to cut the U.S. Government
down at every opportunity. Since President KENNEDY was looked
upon by many in the Soviet Union as a popular personality,
KENNEDY's personal attraction further raised this feeling
that living in a democracy had its benefits, to an even higher
level with the general. population of the Soviet Union.

When asked 1f it was possible that KGB could or- would
ever sanction such an operation (the assasination) Subject
answered "yes, at that time (KHRUSHCHEV's) it could have",
KHRUSHCHEV was considered by Subject to.be an ignorant

“4ndividual who was willing to take risks and adventurous under-_

takings. Subject said, however, that this could never occur
under the present Soviet leadership, Subject considered that
the decision. to carry out such an operation, (the assasination)
could not -have been made by the Chairman of the KGB since he
does not possess such authority, and, therefore, could only
have been made by KHRUSHCHEV himself,

Subject was asked if such an operation might not have
involved a terrific risk which could have possibly resulted
in an armed conflict between the two nations, had Soviet
involvement been proven by the Americans. Subject felt that
even if the Americans did accuse the Soviet Government of
complicity in the assasination, the Soviet Government would
certainly deny such an American accusation, claiming that the
Americans were using OSWALD, a crazy man who had been in the
Soviet Union, would say that the accusation was a provocation,
and in all probability would repudiate such American claims,

To underline his point, Subject mentioned that even
though OSWALD was in the Soviet Union, and was suspected
because he was in Cuba, nothing happened and the Soviet Union
wasn't accused by the Americans.

