# 104-10234-10013

## Page 1

104-10234-10013

•* 9788

Lo #

#:+ 49118860.-

•IFiED MESSAGE E

10101:09112

SECRET

To - WE 3

I RID COPY

OVARGE COPY

Dance Dearco Divaco

REPRODUCTIO PROLIB TED

T CA

I ST

wE

Tast

1...

ECRET 8916482

PRIORITY DIR CITE MADR 7424

10 KAR 66 16 7 1 777

1119

DESENSITIZED

REF DIR 85729

1o DEN WALKER WAS CALLED TO FORNOTE BY SR. ANGEL SAGAZ,

DIRECTOR GEN OF NORIM AMERICAN AFFAIRS. ALSO PRESENT WAS

SR. PEDRO SALVADOR DE VICENTI, DIRECTOR OF CENTRAL AND SOUTH

AMERICAN AFFAIRS.

2. SAGAZ SAID FORNOFF HAD READ CUBAN ALLEGATIONS OF OLIEN

INVOS VEMENT IN CONSPIRACY AGAINST CASTRO. COMMENTED GOS

AWARE FACT ARTIME WAS IN MADRID ABOUT A YEAR AGO.

• WALKER PEPLIED ACCUSATIONS AGAINST OL TEN WERE FALSE.

A• SAGAZ CLAIMED HE ACTING ON OUN INITIATIVE IN BRINGING

UP CASE WITH WALKER AND NOT AS RESULT ANY COMPLAINT FROM CUBAN

AUTHOR IT IES.

SAGAZ THEN SAID IT KNOWN OLIEN HAS MADE TRIPS TO BILBAO

WHERE MANY ACTS OF SABOTAGE HAVE TAKEN PLACE AGAINST CUBAN SHIPS

BEING BUILT THERE. WALKER REPLIED NEITHER OLIEN NOR HIS

ORGANIZATION: INVOLVED IN ANY SABOTAGE ACI IVITIES IN SPAIN.

Go

SAGAZ THEN COMMENTED INAT FORNOFF COGNIZANT OF FACT OLLEN

SECRET

AMLASH-I

5

---

## Page 2

• .

WISTES IN CLOSE COOPERA ION SECRE

1, ALTHOUGH SAGAT. DENIEN IT TALKER. IS OF OPINION CUBAN GOVI

"SAY HAVE REGISTERED COMPLAINT AND THAT SAGAZ GOING THROUGH

"NECESSARY MOTIONS."

8. OLIEN NOT AWARE OF SAGAZ-WALKER CONVERSATION UNTIL AFTER

IT HAD TAKEN PLACE. OLIEN IOLD WALKER SAGAZ' LINKING OLIEN WITH

BILEAO SABOTAGE INCIDEVIS ENTIRELY GRATUITOUS. FACT OF MATTER IS

O. IEN HAS NOT BEEN IN BILBAO SINCE 6 MARCH 1964. OLIEN

ALSO REMINDED WALKER THAT QUOTA HAD DETERMINED THAT FIRE ON QUISA

WAS ACCIDENTAL AND NOT SABOTAGE AND THAT QUANTUM/30 HAD EXPRESSED

BELIEF THAT MOST RECENT FIRE ON FISHING VESSEL PARGO MAY HAVE BEEN

WORK OF THE CUBANS THEMSELVES.

9. WALKER SUGGESTED OLIEN MENTION TO QUANTUM/SO FACI THAT

FORNOFF HAD CALLED HIM IN TO DISCUSS CUBAN CHARGES. OLIEN WILL

DO SO WHEN HE LUNCHES WITH QUANTUM/SO ON 10 MAR.

18. OLIEN BRIEFED CHIEF PBSWING CRALLY ON 8 MAR. NEITHER

HE NOR DOM LEAST BIT PERTURBED BY IKE INCIDENT.

SECRET

CFN& 7424 85729 DOM WALKER FORNOFF SR. ANGEL SAGAZ NORTH AMERICAN

SRO PEDRO SALVADOR DE VICENTI CUBAN FEEN CASTRO GOS ARTIME

SECRET

---

