104-10408-10014)

OLC 79-2477
10 August 1979

*
MEMORANDUM FOR: Mr. George Frates
AC/Records Management Division
ISS/DCA

FROM : Rodger S. Gabrielson
Office of Legislative Counsel”

SUBJECT : HSCA Records a

1. During the course of the HSCA investigations, much classified
information was assembled in response to HSCA requests. Three categories
of, information must now be disposed of under terms of the HSCA/DCI
Memorandum of Understanding.

Category la: Classified material from Agency
holdings, requested by the HSCA, which HSCA staff
members. reviewed.

Category Ib: Classified material from Agency
holdings, requested-by the HSCA, but which HSCA
staff members did not review.

Category 2: Material generated by the HSCA from
Agency classified holdings made available to. the
HSCA in response to the latter's request. (Note:
This HSCA material is considered by the HSCA as its
property and, therefore, not releasable to the
public under the Freedom of Information Act. An
inventory of this material received from HSCA has
been completed.)

Category 3: Classified correspondence and certain
unclassified correspondence exchanged between this
Agency and the HSCA.

2. The HSCA has indicated its desire that copies of these three
categories of material be held in sealed and segregated storage to
ensure the preservation cf all relevant records pertaining to the
phase of the investigation involving this Agency. In order to accom-
modate the HSCA, but also leave our own records accessible for routine
purposes, a photographic copy should be made of each official Agency
document made available in response to a specific request by the HSCA
(Category la and 1b).



upd

f 2

3. Upon completion of the task of photographing the Category la
and lb documents, those photograpnic copies (Category 1), the HSCA-
generated materials based upon Agency material (Category 2),-and the
designated Agency-HSCA correspondence (Category 3), will be sealed and
held in segregated storage by the Agency, in accordance with schedules
established by the Archivist of the United States.

4. Documents’ are now in the individual custodies of members of
the Agency HSCA Task Force. These individuals’ are listed by attachment.

5. Please advise on your recommended procedures for photographing =
these documents and procedures for entering these copies into sealed
storage.

0S /

Rodger S. Gabrielson
Attachment

Distribution:
Original - Addressee
~ OLC Record
OLC Chrono
D. Haudefschedt, 0/Personnel
J. Sullivan, 0/Security
D. Rininger, OGC
B. Sturbitz, DDO/LA
M. 3 DD0/CI
J. Fox, DDO/SE
H. Clark, SA/DDS&T
D. Touhey, SA/DDCI

ae rere err

pteraetrene


Upy

HSCA Task Force Members

Dorrif Haudefschedt, Office of Personnel
Jack Sullivan, Office of Security

Dick Rininger,. OGC

Bill Sturbitts, OD0/LA Division

wikef DDO/CI Staff

Julian Fox, DDO/SE Division

Hal Clark, SA/DDS&T

Dolores’ Tuohey,: SA/DDCI

Russ Holmes, 816 Ames Bldg.

