# 104-10181-10202

## Page 1

104-10181-10202

03

ORIG

UNIT : 219/C1

1654

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

S•E C.R FT

EXT • 3674

DATE: u Septerer 1962

630l

TO SEE BELOW

no inside Pair dare.

FROM: XAZECIORS CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENET

HE TANTrA

CONF. TEW 10

Sendor

Fraini

INFO. DOP, C1, C1/OPS, S/C 2

501-31196641

ROUTING

03

6 SEP EN

62

SIG

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

OUT 73652

"N2" 1387

PEITY

INFO

CEDERAL SUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Terras

CITE DIR

DEPARTI: ENT CF STATE (SECURITY)

DIRECTOR, DEFENSE INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

DEPARTMENT OF TEC ARXY. ATTENTION: ACSI, SECURITY DIVISION !

DEPARTLENT CF THE NAVY: ATTENTION: ON

DEPARTIENT OF THE AIR FORCE: ATTENTION: OSI, INSPECTOR GENE: I

SULJECT: "ALPEA 66", AN ANTI-CASTRO ORGANIZATION

1. TEE FOLLOWING INFORMATION CONCERNING THE PLANS AND ACTV

ITIES OF THE "ALPHA 66" ORCANIZATION, AN ANTI-CASTRO OPERATION I

SAN JUAN, PUERTO FICO, WAS RECEIVED BY THIS AGENCY FROM A FAIRLY:

RELIABLE SOURCE IN SAN JUAN.

2. ON 30 AUGUST 1962, GERONIMO ESTEVEZ AND ALEJANDRO CJEDA,

"ALPHA GG" LZADERS IN SAN JUAN, TOLD SOURCE THAT THEIR PLANS ICE.

[TUITART-ACTION ACAINST CUBA STILL STAND; THEY EAD RECENTLY RE-

CEIVED A TELEPROTE CALL FROM MIAVI, FLORIDA, FROM ANTON VIT

CLATiCE, LEADER CI "ALPHA 66", WEO STATED "ALPEA 66" INTENDS GO

¿BEAD WITH PLANNED ACTIONS DESPITE CURRENTLY INTENSIFIED EF: RTS

DE IPES JINCO CILTES GCVERILENT TO RESTRAIN CUBAN EXILES, A.. IA

THE TELE CHICK TILL 3O CLE THIC BEFORE 22 SEPTEL BE? 1962.

3. ACCCADING IC SCURCE, ALI "ALPHA CU" PLANS AND

COOEDINATING OFFICERS

CROUP 1

(CONSTNUED)

RELEASING DIFICER

[

included prost beened

SECE

AUTHERTICATINO

doche antica seen

OFFICER

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy Na.

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

---

## Page 2

ORIG :

UNIT

EXT

DATE :

1O

FROM:

CONF:

INFO :

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

**;

#-##

ROUTiNG

3

on d draid luise. It sires.

DIRECTOR

Maint

PAGE-T WO

Suite Milie I

DEFERRED

POUTINE

OUTT366Z

TO

INFO

CITE DIE.

ACTIONS ARE BEING DIRECTED FROM MIANI. DETAILS OR TIMING OF

PLANS ARE NOT KNOWN TO "ALPHA 66" ELEMENTS IN SAN JUAN. IN

LATE JULY 1962, "ALPHA 66" ELEMENTS IN SAN JUAN RECEIVED A

SEALED ENVELOPE FROM VECIANA IN MIANI, PURPORTEDLY CONTAIN-

ING DETAILS OF THE FIRST ACTION OF "ALPHA 66". THE ENVELOPE WA

TO BE OPENED AT A PUBLIC RALLY AFTER THE ACTION WAS COMPLETED

AND WAS CEREMONIOUSLY PLACED IN A SAFE DEPOSIT BOX. SOURCE

STATED THE ACTUAL LOCATION OF THE SAFE DEPOSIT BOX IS KNOWN

ONLY TO A FEW "ALPHA 66" MEMBERS IN SAN JUAN, AND IT MAY

POSSIBLY BE IN THE SANTURCE BRANCH, BANCO DE PONCE, OR THE

BANCO DE SAN JUAN: IN MID-AUGUST 1962, THE SAN JUAN MEMBERS OF

"ALPHA 66" BECAME GREATLY DISCOURAGED: DOUSE OF LACK OF

ACTION AND THEY PRESSED "ALPHA 66" LEADERS FOR AN EXPLANATION.

THEY WERE TOLD BY ANTONIO VECIALA. FROM MIAMI THAT AN OPERA-

TIONAL GROUP HAD ACTUALLY DEPARTED FOR AN ACTION RAID AGAINL:

CUBA BUT WAS FORCED TO RETURN DUE TO "IMPERFECTION IN EQUIP-

(CONTINUE:))

COOPDINATINO OFFICERS

Escharted treas airtamatht

«prograding 100

SECRET

LUTHENTICATIHI

SPICEI

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

copy No. sid.

---

## Page 3

ORIG :

UNIT

EXT

DATE

TO

FROM:

CONF:

INFO :

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

• SECRET

ROUTING

DIRECTOR

÷ 399

нЕ.

F:2-a:24

PAGE THREE

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

CUT 736591:391

INFO

CITE DIR

MENT" SAN JUAN MEMBERS OF "ALPHA 66" THEN PLANNED TO SEND

A COMMISSION TO MIAMI TO GET A MORE COMPREHENSIVE REPORT

BUT RECEIVED WORD FROM MIANI ON 25 AUGUST 1962 THAT BECAUSE

OF CURRENT "HEAT FROM UNITED STATES AUTHORITIES DUE TO

RECENT INCIDENTS, "ALPHA 66' ACTIONS HAD BEEN POSTPONED.

4. ALSO ACCORDING TO SOURCE, AN "ALPHA 66" MEETING

WAS CONDUCTED IN SAN JUAN BY GERONIMO ÉSTEVEZ ON NIGET

OF SO AUGUST 1062 AND WAS ATTENDED BY ABOUT 200 CUBAN EXTLES.

THESE MEETINGS ARE HELD WEEKLY, AND IT WAS ANNOUNCED TRAT®

PLANS WILL BE REVEALED AT NEXT MEETING FOR RECRUITING

YOUNG CUBANS IN VENEZUELA, PUERTO RICO, AND MIAMI. WANTE

ARE MEN WO NEED MINIMUM MILITARY TRAINING TO FORM RAIDER

GROUPS FOR FUTURE ACTIONS. TWO REPRESENTATIVES FROM TEE

DIRECTORIO REVULNOIONARIO ESTUDIANTIL (DRE) WERE PRESENT,

AND THEY ANNOUNCED THE DRE WAS PLANNING ADDITIONAL RAUT

ON CUBA.

(CONTINUED)

GROUPE

facteded from se

RELEASING OFFICER

COOROINATINO OFFICER

SECRET

REPRODUCTION, BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

AUTHERTICATIHE

OSFICER

Copy No...;

---

## Page 4

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE""

SECRET

ORIG:

UNIT

EXT :

DATE :

то :

FROM: •DIRECTOR

CONF:

INFO:

#-B8

POUTING

15

C. F. Tiané ottee de eater

E68 cle stand resiny de Dol control

If Tardice triadis

01001

Sue praises I

PAGE FOUR

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

OUT 736520

TO

INFO

CITE DIR

5. ANTONIO VECIANA BLANCH HAS BEEN THE SUBJECT OF PRE-

VIOUS CORRESPONDENCE BETWEEN THIS AGENCY AND THE BUREAU.

6. PRELIMINARY TRACES REVEAL NO ADDITIONAL. INFORMATIO!:

ESTiVEZ.

ON GERCNIMO/AND ALEJANDRO QJEDA, ANY ADDITIONAL INFORMATION.

GIESTEVER AND CIEDA

DEVELOPED/WILL BE PROMPTLY FORWARDED TO ADDRESSEES.

7. ANY ADDITIONAL INFORMATION CONCERNING THE "ALPHA 66"

ORGANIZATION RECEIVED BY THIS AGENCY WILI. BE PROMPTLY FOR-

WARDED TO ADDRESSEES, THIS AGENCY WILL APPRECIATE RECEIPT OF

ANY INFORIVATION ADDRESSEES MAY DEVELOP ON THE ABOVE SUBJECT.

8. THE ABOVE INFORMATION IS BEING MADE AVAILABLE TO THE

IMVIGRATION AND NATURALIZATION SERVICE.

END OF MESSAGE

INFO DAÜED CN: #JAN 0695 (IN 12303) 27 AUG 62

SJAI 0703 (IN 14345) 30 AUG 62

Su AN 0704 (IN 14834) 31 AUG 62

18 1359

J. Hencere

C/TrW/DAd

CI LIAISON

BASING ORDICER 6-25

amongrattag and

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITEO.

ni too

( AUTHENTICATINO .

OFFICER

Copy No

---

