0186-10107

RE Be

‘ DINETRO's travel from Prague to Habana on 11 May 1964 was

INT Nt . :
CENTRAL I ELUGENCE AGENCY : RETURN TO: CIA Y,

SUIS erwin inns ba eg Background Use Only
» SECRET "Do Not Reproduea
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

CounTtY Cubs : spor NO. = CSCI~316/01653-64 .
SUMECT “CASTOR” (pseudonyn) _. ATE OTR «13 October 1964

: NO. PAGES 2

: REFERENCES
parson 2964 .
uce a Washington, D. C. - ee
DATE Aca, OCtober 1964 FELD REPORT NO. ae
TS 14 UNEVALUATED FORMATION SOURCE Dalneeas Aud ORFNNTIVe APPEAL OF CONTENT. 2 regarve, i

souece, A former Cuban I8 officer who served withthe Cuban Intelligence
Service until April 1964, | : ee

Beadgustters Commente

ie :
The following report is orice of a’ seri containing pore rer
information provided by the source and includes supplemental
‘Antormation from the records of this ageacy.

It de requested that the addres*ses take no ection on any of the
individuals montioned in the personality reports without firat
checking with this Agency.

1. “CASTOR” (psoudonys) ig a secretary and anpiatant to fa
Manuel PINEIRO Losada; ‘his job ia receiving telephone calls and
callers for PIXKIRNO. “CASTOR recently made a trip with. PIHEIRO
to Moscow. .

2. “CASTOR” was boro about 1928, iv five feet eight inchos :
tall, 155 pounds, and has a medium build. He has a fair .
complexion, black wavy hair, black eyes, — usually dreases
in civilian clothes, 1,2,3

Headquarters Comments

1. Since source reported that "CASTOR" recently mnde a trip :
to Mogcow with PINEIAO and the travel manifest reflecting : ui fe

. loceted with the nane of Castor GOMEZ appearing directly

Sunder PINEIBO's, 1¢ 1@ the uawimption of this Agency that
“CASTOR and Castor GOUZZ are ono and the wage, PIREARO's :
paasport number van ‘nted an 3852/0S7506 and GOW27" was :
listed as 5252/037564 a

SSCRRT
NO FOREIGN DISSEM



er oe

var ae

moo BS ah,

“A report dated 2 February 1962, stated thet-t
Custor GOMEZ Prado attended a neating of :fo1
‘Punta dol Este. He was described as second

SECR ES

NO FOREIGN DISSEM _CSCI-316/01653-64

a . paar ys : : in

2 1m August 1961, Castor
Cubaa delegation te the.

The recorda of thie Agency reveal
GO¥FZ Prado was & Recretary with th
BOs Confersacy in Avstevideot

etn ener Simi ae aed

January 1962,

patan anne
Srewgntt de het

ewe ae

