104-10175-10422)

1. Attached hererith is one cojy of Subject took (Attactusat A). |
sfich vos pibl: sted under the axs;ices of irvestignoion counomice, an;
organitation cf the mtional Faool of scvncay ot the Ua. the use of
Usk srinting foot lities ene erstimad Lar ub joot book. exenylifies ths
anbictece, Fro=Crstro Orio-tation at the LxA: School of -cononisn.

La" ikcZy, tha cuthor of Subject sok, 19 a iarcioty proCaetro professor
at the (Ril, end ae reported in SouNl 792%, Ll 22 was aluo one of the
persone recjoraible for the exalsions of tuia felipe W110 Neciss eat:
Cuillerso 1.2! lelayy frog the tui dchool of Leononies for their pare
tichpation in the 2b duly i:61 eti-Castro zerade at the T2UK,. Sohbet
book is written as m acaocaic treative, presenting the economies ills of
Cuba in ter pre-Castro hevelctizm era (alluding % 0.5, responsiblity -
VOE 1966 1418 )9 He ECAH A ue La eely Ubecae eng weeenes of LS

@ccouplighrents end aspirations of the Crstro Bevolut onary goverssent,

2, Ste printing a.¢ commrenal dstribution of Subject took was
con: letod recently vith copies available to tre rublie et Merican took
outlets for 10.00 pesos each (35.00), wb counteract the book's recep
tion in haxico and to expose its fallacies -—u¢ Consmist oricetation,
zy the Station-instrated. Lo throush! Uitiess-to: p-wzare B.

MGB “rebuttel® zeview of the book for rvtlisation end distribution in

fors to selected ecdrecsees in Vexi co, _ ‘he. éraft cory of the
review (ittachamnt B) ae(ipproved by ‘the Stetiba ie being — fee
Beatqueartera inforation m4 interest. - 2 i

Winer C. Curtis {

Distribution:
Se pre 3g e/atteo ed

22 Deorabor 1961 |
3 ihn

ade tb at A :
LIMGKF. = Z Petal
the CD ade cm bey Sem,

= =a

Bove

SU as Pe ae ae
ERESaa mm

|

|

|
an. Taw wth
my = ; |
