# 104-10186-10131

## Page 1

104-10186-10131

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Nọt Reproduce

IINPORMATION

REPORT

IN ORNATION REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

ale matartal containe information alertiag she Mationel Defon ol the Unilo Mat meRla the mensios al sto Easonore Lawa. TIl

.88, О ВС.

CA. TRI An TA lDA traDalaon or trainlton ol Thien ln suy manner so an unnatoriora tornia la probitilad by le

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

COUNTRY CUD

вЕРОП NO.

SUNECT ArSOnIO FRANCO VIllaNUOYa

DATE DISTR

NO. PAGES

CS C1-316/01213-64

16 September 1964

2

REFERENCES

4/p4

DATE OF 1964

INFO.

PLACE & Washington, D.

C.

DATE ACQ. September

1964

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED. INFORMATIOA SOURCe ORADINOS ARE DIPIMITIVR APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TRNTATIVE

SOURCE: A former Cuban 1S officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Sorvice until April 1964.

Headquarters Comments

The following

report is one of a series containing personality

information provided by the source and includes supplemental

Information from the records of this Agency.

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any of the

individuals mentioned in the personality reports without first

checking with this Agency.

ARSENIO FRANCO Villanueva holds the rank of captain and la

Chief of the Patrol Section

Headquurters Comments

In a report dated 1 December 1961, an untested source said

that sometime in 1960 he Joined the MRR and was assigned to

the Sabotage Section under Jorge Francisco DIAZ.

group was penetrated by a captain of the Municipal Police

of Habana,

Arsenio FRANCO Villanueva.

FRANCO reported the

croups activities to G-2 during the Playa Giron landing•

2. In a report dated 2 October 1962, an untested source provided

a list of G-2 agents, Communists

and individuals connected

with the Communists.

Included on this list was Arsento

FRANCO, allas "El Gallego," who was reportedly a captain in

Source said he was born about 1937, was between 150

and 160 pounds, about six feet tall, had a white comploxion,

brown half, and green eyas..

An Officia] travel manifest revealed that on 5 October 1962,

Arsenio FRANCO Villanueva, an active Communist Party member,

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

STATE

I DIA

I ARMY

REP CINCLANT

(Noto: Finid destribution Indicated by " #".)

I NAVY

CINCSO E

TAIR

TINSA

14x8

I oce

FBI ₴

_I&NS

AMA WUOIN

REPORT

IINFORMATION REPORT

2

1

MI/SA/EOB,

MI/SALMOB

NELS/R

NE/MADR

CI/LLA

2/CILRKA

EL/SA/R

3115

W WASHI

MUSA CI

RIDLAN

TOTALO MI/BA 7 (1), WE 1 (2), CI 4, RID 1

IX - reed

NO PROJECT (ANHUG )

CSC1-316/01213-54 :

G1A18OM

MAKYLE

1: 8 ok

---

## Page 2

14-00000

.5.

SECRET

NO FOREIGN

DISSEM • CSCI-316/01213-64

sylved in Madrid from Haband.

He was greated at the airport by

ESTIVEZ, an

employee. of the Cuban Eibassy in Madrid.

A member of a group of Cuban emigres trained in the techniques

of information collection and who have provided useful reports for

.two years aald, In a réport dated 14 iny 1963, that Arsenio FRANCO

Villanúeva, a Cuban Police Captain, was a member of the Cuban

to the San Paulo-games.

da untested source in a report dated 4 May 1964, said that Arsento

FRANCO Villanueva, as a captain in the Departmento de Seguridad

del Estado (DSE) and in charge of all DSE patrol cars in Habana.

His office was located at Las Maristas, La Vibora, Habana. FRANCO,

• Sierra Maestra veteran and formerly a Habana municipal police

captain, was transferred to the DSE in 1963. He is married and his

tife works at the municipal JUCEI in Habana. They live on 26th

Street, Miramar, Habana; & block from

"Che" GUEVARA. FRANCO had

a reputation for ruthlessness and smoking marijuana cigarettes.

Source described him as Caugasion, born about 1938, six feet tall,

160 pounds, dark complected, with dark eyes and brown hair.

-.

NO

S

E

C R

FÜREIGN

E T

DISSEN

---

