# 104-10126-10318

## Page 1

104-10126-10318]

RETURNTO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

4028

rec'd 9/14/18

ASCA

OLG # 18-4038/2

SUMMARY OF MR. HART'S PRESENTATION

I. Defection as a Psychological Phenomenon

Misinterpretation of Nosenko's reactions will

be covered within the context of failure to under-

stand the stresses to which he was subjected as a

defector.

II.

1962 Contacts

Factors leading to an inaccurate record during

the 1962 meetings will be covered.

I1I. The Role of Mr. X

The influence of another defector -- to be

referred to only as Mr. X -- will be indicated as

resulting in misinterpretation of many of Nosenko's

statements.

IV. Confinement of Nosenko

Details of the confinement will be outlined as

hey relate to possible misinterpretation of his

statements under questioning during the period up to

his being reassigned to the custody of the CIA Office

of Security.

The entire presentation will be about 30 pages in

length when reduced to final written form. Mr. Hart's

presentation will not specifically address the question

of Nosenko's statements regarding Lee Harvey Oswald.

Mr. Hart, in studying the Nosenko case, deliberately

disregarded the Oswald aspect of the case inasmuch

as it had by and large been handled by the FBI.

Mr. Hart will argue that, inasmuch as Nosenko is

bona fide defector, his

statements regarding Lee Harvey

Oswald should be accepted as having been given in

good faith and to the best of his knowledge.

70453

---

## Page 2

* :

NAME

:

John Limond Hart

DATE OF BIRTH : 3 October 1920

CITIZENSHIP

:

CIA CAREER

:

U.S.A.

Auto mine pena de gol os

and

Also held

enior posts In CIA Headqia hels.

OTHER CIVILIAN

GOVT SERVICE

: Special Assistant to Secretary ot

the Treasury for National Security.

1972 to 1973.

EXPERTISE ON

SOVIET DEFECTORS: Has written two extensive siudie:

of Soviet defectors, including

on Nosenko. Has also had considerati

experience

with Soviet intelligence

and counterintelligence activitins

while serving in various capacitis

in the United States and abroad.

RETIREMENT

:

Retired from U.S. Government in mid-ay

after 31 years

of combined mili.m

and civilian service.

---

