# 104-10163-10050

## Page 1

104-10163-10050

21 'urt 1960

stan

TRI 1 C0/03/17

SUBJECT

complotion of iralians report on NiGhTEd, THIninE, 121003

HESITY®

'armant for "Iroclor of Ininings Ittentions Cler, Cover

painine perations:ool ubjosts ionent for covert irairin

• N'CIANI:E1 (201-151689)8 From iN :1v1rdan dated 6 Jily 1962

• Maithl reeled out tralrinz in bet lork br

20 sully through 21 lupust 17

mere tan no mtetential vilen

In the curriendua en outlirod in the 011, 2001 roguest

2a Throwshout te entre training period MACLATTI REpRENd

tentivo, sorons, and molous to abateb as rach'as he could o

the tmirdne astorial. Although not perlieula-ly bolcht, to 4510

a and una aule to grasp and ont to practieal une the sirelale

at tradoenant, allotation, and agent handling und nansent.

no him ufforte lo sehim sor ramuito men menied ly dist el

de ability to conoentraro on the jos at hand ini do lbe bent poo

«dolo job under the erucatacos.

tine ha ono b1r full which von the very obrions uny sit net be

took notes throughant the amnesse.

ANCIA Trial vorted hurt el resenting, end after a mammat

may mart, rond allo to vito mensly although his ecuant of

internatios porte talr.

stances lett my muld hero halead fur resil

adrono erstiolen In th1a entror and sou valison nio notakos.

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Orily

Do Not Reproduce.

---

## Page 2

14-00000

way to go but appeare alline to sort hars and long hours in

order to sahieve blo goal.

PUB THE DOILETOR OF TRATINOS

03

06/03/22

---

