# 104-10172-10297

## Page 1

104-10172-10297

1.8 i

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

Background Use On

Do Not Reproduce

RI0/

Ire, not to lifest

COMMENTS

TO

3.

Adas 1

G/WE-I

451) =

WE-L/CE

lng

28

3-4i This is inhat ricte-

- set used it call "zating

Lely to felly" will the

JAs.

# DRO

COPY

Ery poute to spines

Shape

12.

19.

191

1.

87.

18.

10.

#101F1

JACOL:

Bin.

4Aus59 E370001

VIBR

---

## Page 2

14-00000

DISPATCH

Chief, k7

Chief, SR

FROM

Ch'of of Station,

SANCT

Station/Croratlera/PiICAF/Griporig/coLLSH= Soviet

Efforta to istablish Concocte with hostom Representatives

None - for Infersation

22007100

Estra

25

14 AguEs 1059

Farou

Bs:5908.947884

rites di can a 13000

l, We are sending under separate cover a copy of en babassy disgutch

on the above subject written by Costille at the request of ste Counselor

He have never attempted to keep our contact with Gelub under

cover and have periodically informed the Counselor of the status of tais

contact. He has approved and even encouraged thie contact and has surgested

bringing in other lebrosy officials so might strike up priesdahips nita

Soviet officials other than Golub.

2. At the most recent Golub-Costille lunch on 3 August, Golub again

ninted at an estrangerent between hisself and his vito, to is still in the

He asked Costille 1f Costille could Mr his sp sita a Finnisa

Arrangecienta have been made for a nicht on the town

this Saturday with Costille and date and Golub and a trusted Finish girl

we are cortain will dre Golub a run for his money.

•' All details dil be in

the next pouch. The following intomation cane out during this lunche colus

1s a Communiat Party merber having this honor bestowed upon him at the front

during World liar II. He also mentioned that practically ail Soriet dirlocate

wore CP menbers.

Golub was torr. in kharkow but apent most of his proferld

War II life In Kier. He corsiders Kiev to be the most beautirul city i the

Sovlat Union and 1s extremely proud of his Ukrainian backgrocad. Galua som

clains that for his nott post he rould prefer New Jork City. (Mig 1o &

reversal, an Golub so so this point has told Costillo that he bould not like

an assigment in the U.S, because of the distance fron Moscow.) Mhen asked

why New York cather than the Soviet Fabassy in Washington, he answered that

in New York he could be his own boss while in Washington he müld be toe much

under the thumb of the Ambassador.

He did not elaborate on this sistesent.

However, he remarked that if assigned to the U.S, he would insist on lu

tensive Englinh language trairing In Moscow.

We would: Ilke to elaborate on Colub's "estrangenent" poe his adfe,

since this appears to be about his only vulnerability.

hesitation a number of tires: has flatly stated that he 1s glad bis afe 19

on vacation in the Scriet Union änd that he has been anjojing his freeds.

At the last lunch Costille asked him when his wife was returning.. He answered

that be did not know and also that he did not care and intrared l'at she vas

having a cood tlae in Moscor "probably with sane lover," Howeres, die kaor

that he hears from tia nife because Golub has mentionad she atreaded the U. S.

exhibition in Moscon, She also phoned him on his birthday, 13 darest, Mon

some vacatior spot on the Riack Sea. Colub has never Intinated that she sould

not be returning to Helainks following her vacation. Colub has almaja mado

these derogatory remarks about his wife rather Jokingly and never out of sny

despondency. He seene to think liese recarks vill establiah tia as "ano ol

Cha toys."

3.4-06

We August 1959

Enclosure - Ulspatch u.d.c.

Uleeribution

• Sll k/encl

Venel

Latel

4/BR

* * 1)

400+818

irr

---

