# 104-10170-10036

## Page 1

104-10170-10036

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRETI

DaTE,

TO

FROM :

ACTION:

INFO

65

NOU 6

DIRECTOR

SAN JUAN

TFW 10

19-7242072

ROUTING

6

NOV 8

3. 23437 62

B

de86 10-0941-8

Traces a de a delicated

D

sane required 5

ROUTINE

IN 15095

WAVE INFO DIR MAGU CITE SJAN 0835

GYROSE

REF HPSW 1362 (NOT SENT WAVES

1. IN INITIAL DISCUSSION WITH IDEN A, HE INFORMED XARNLEY

THAT HE IS IN CONTACT LOCALLY WITH DRE (FOR DIR? SEE PARA 1

REFS• IDEN A SAID HIS CONTACT HAS BEEN WITH JOSE ARTECONA,

BROTHER OF CARLOS "TRIPA" ARTECONA.

2 ARTECONA HAD SOUGHT IDEN A'S ASSISTANCE OBTAINING MINIATURE

CAMERAS WHICH SAID HE WISHED TRANSMIT TO PBRUMEN THROUGH CHANNEL

WHICH; HIS, ORGANIZATION HAS NOW ESTABLISHED WITH IDEN B. ACCORDINe

TO ARTECONA IDEN B COOPERATING AS COMMUNICATIONS CHANNEL USING

AND HAS NOT ONLY TRANSMITTED MESSAGES BUT ON

ONE OCCASION TRANSMITTÊD ONE UNIT SMALL ARMS.

3. WHEN QUERIED FURTHER IDEN A SAID ARTECONA HAS NEVER

IDENTIFIED INDIVIDUAL WHO ACTUALLY IN CONTACT WITH IDEN & NOR

INDICATED EXTENT IDEN B'S GOVT INVOLVED. WHOLE STORY FAIRLY

LOOSE®

4. KARNLEY DECLINED IDEN A SUGGESTION THAT HE TALK DIRSCTLY

WITH ARTECONA. SUGGESTED INSTEAD THAT IDEN A ADVISE ARTECONA

TO PRESENT HIS REQUEST FOR ASSISTANCE TO HIS KUBARX CONTACT,

GROUP 1

SEGRET

EXCLUDES FROM AUTO-

MATIC DOWAGRADINO &

DECLASSIFICATION

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

Copy No:

MISR

---

## Page 2

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

ROUTING

DATE,

TO

FROM

ACTION:

INFO

Al 2ã asia cupy de indiasted

sane prquired

PAGE 2

IN 15095 SIAN 0835

CARTECONA MAD PREVIOUSLY NENTIONED DRE/KUBARK CONTACT EXPRESSING

OPINION THAT IS DIS HÃD INDEED DEVELOPED SUCH CHANNEL TO PERUMEN,

XUSARK VERY LIXELY BE MUCH INTERESTED.

SO IDEN A HAS NOW MADE ASQVE SUGGESTION AND ARTECOVA HAS SAID

WILL PRESENT TO KUSARK CONTACT DURING VISIT MIAMI WHICH EXPECTS

TAKE LATER THIS MONTH.

6. SUAN ELECTED HANDLE MATTER THIS WAY SO AS TO AVOID CROSSING

WAVE CHANNEL TO DRE. IF CONSIDERED DESIRABLE HOWEVER SELIEVE

SUAN CAM EASILY ESTABLISH CONTACT AND FOLLOW THIS. UP FROM HERE.

% ADVISE.

8 FOR HAGU: DRE IS DIRECTORIO REVOLUCIONARIO ESTUDLANTIL,

PROMINENT CUBAN EXILE STUDENT GROUP WITH LONG STANDING KUJARX

ASSOGAN. HOS IS IN SAMI WITH MARGINAL REPRESENTATION SAN JUAN.

END OF MESSAGE

GROUP I

SEGRET

EXCLUDES FROM AUTO

BATHE DEVAGAADIDN

DECLASSIFILATION

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFIÇE IS PAOIS TED. _ COpY NO. :.

---

