io4-t0441-(0005
ad

Co Se 6

11 Cetober 1960

FILE No. __'%” DATE.

SYNOPSIS

oe

A postal facility (Fost Office sox
General Post Office, Fhiladelphia 1, Fennsylvania

was established at Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, in
the names D, L and or MILDRED - The
Postmaster a’ Pennsylvania, wad alerted to
the fact that mail should arrive for DANIEL and

or MILDRED it should be forwarded to their
\ Fost Office Box at Fhiladelphia.

Householder requested to accept mail in
the name of MILDRED .

pd REPORT NO.

PRBS 1125 a

vs

;



— «@ Q

CASE NO. 43872 11 Octeter 1960

GENERAL:

At Philadelphia, Fennsylvania

With respe

listed for the Se

Fe
al ennsylvania HA

"Qn 11 October 1960, Postmaster, was inter-
viewed cn the premises of the Pos’ ice at the intersection of

Center and North 7th Streets, This informant was alerted to the
r MILD

0
General Fost Office, Mhiladelphia 1, Pennsylvania. —
very. cooperative and stated that he would take the necessary
action to insure that any items would be forwarded as requested.

le declared t he would have to advise the Assistant Postmaster,
of the request to make sure of proper handling.

As a matter of generalintérest, the current telephone

fact that if any mail should arrive for DANIEL and o:

» it should be forwarded to Fost Office Bo:

directory for the village of) does not contain a listing
in the name and MR who déscrebed himself as a

resident here all of his life, brought out that he does not
recall anyone with the surnane ever residing here.
pabachianeeeds hanes Acces peteteeeeieee ates

At_New York, New York

On 10 October 1960 a householder was requested to

accept mail addressed to MILDReD °

WPT, Jr.Avet -l-

On 10 October 1950, Confidential Informant MI-36 was
interviewed on the premises of the General Fost Office at 30th
and Market Streets, He nade arrangements to open a fost office
vox ($4.50 quarterly fee) in the names of DANIEL and or MIIDRED

» The ility to be utilized is identified as: Fost

Office Feat fSbenerah Post Office, Fhiladelphia 1, Pennsylvania,

et to the written application for the facility, no
references were required and no residence or business address was

