# 104-10216-10356

## Page 1

104-10216-10356

-:

TIn WAKE

De/WN/c 3

MR. FILE DRE

-ISSIFIED MESSAGE

21.! SECRET

NOTIFICe

ADVANCE COPY

18808#

TORA COle

TTEN

sia.

J•X-

SECRET 822313Z

PRIORITY DIR INFO SCOM MADR CITE VAVE 8929

DESENSITIZER: JE TYPIC AYWORLD AMLASH

WAVEFSBO

NETS A. HAVE 8752 (11: 12111)

BA HAVE 8753 (IN 12/0C)

1. I MAR ANUAX-I REPORTED FOLL RELATED JO REFS:

A. SAME SUBUS REF B, MET WITH AMWORY-1 IN HOME MOTHER OF

201-739879. PURPOSE OF MEET VAS TO ENABLE AMWORN-: TO PESVE TU

IDEN-1 REF B THAT AMVORM-I HAD CONTACTS DESCRIBED REF A. "CIDER-A.

-EE B SKEPTICAL ABOUT ANYTHING AMVORM-I SAYS DESPITE FACI THEY

FRIENDS)• MOTHER OF 201-759879 WIDOW AND LIVES ALONE AT IDEA.

• Bo MOTHER ASKED ANWORM-1 RE PRESENT LOCATION AND HEALER OF

JON AND WHY HAD NOT CONE PEPRIME® MOTHER CLAJS SPENT CONSIDERAPER

MONEY GETTING VISA FOR SON AT HIS REQUEST AND DISAPPOINTED HE NOT

MARIVED YET. AMVORM-I STATED SON VAS BUSY WITH IMPORTANT WORK, DOING

EXCELLENT JOB FOR CAUSE AND TRAVEL TO WAVE AREA AT FRESENI INCON-

→...

- VENIENT.

SON WAS ALSO PLANNING EXTENSIVE TRIP CENTRAL AMESICAN

GILTRIES iNOT MENTIONEDS. AMWORM-I TOLD MOTHER NOT WORRY AND

PROMISED TAKE HER SANTO DOMINGO FIRST WEEN IN MARCH TO SEE SON.

ADDED SUBUS REF & HAD GOOD CONNECTION DOMINICAN REPUBLIC AND WOULS

1. 1

Ale

---

## Page 2

$ 4-00000

TAKE GOOD CARE OF SON.

CO AMVORA-I TOLD MOTHER KE RECENTLY MADE TRIP WITH ANUHIP-!

WHO GREATLY HELPING CAUSE. AMSHIP-I FOND OF 201-799878 AND YOULD

TAKE CARE CE HIM. SAID AMLASH-2 FREQUENTLY SAY 201-759879 EUROPE

ALTHOUGH AMLASK-2 NOT LIVING MADRID.

DO AFTER PROMISING ADVISE MOTHER WHEN SON ARRIVED SANTO

DOMINGO, MEETING BROKE UP.

E. ENROUTE IDEN- REF B OFFICE, AMWORM-S REPORTED TO SUBJS

REF B THAT POPRIMERS ARE ACTIVE IN CONSPIRACY BETVEEN AMLASH-!

"AMBIDDY-I AND 281-759879. PBPRIMERS FREQUENTLY FLY CONSPIRAIORS

CUNNAMEDS TO ZRAETAL IN SPECIAL AIRCRAFT FRON EUROPE, GIVE THEM

SUBSTANTIAL AMOUNTS MONEY AND TREAT THEM ROYALLY, PBPRIMERS ALSO

GAVE ASSURANCES THAT ONCE PBRUMEN LIBERATED, CONSPIRATORS WILL NOT

BE IN NEED ANYTHIRO, AND PROMISED BREAT QUANTITY FOOD AND SUPPLIES.

HOWEVER, RE LIBERATION PLANS PBRUMEN, PEPRINERS VANT SLOW, GRADUAL

WEAKENING ANTHUG-1• AMWORM-I AND AMVORLD CONTACTS PAY LIP SERVICE

THIS POLICY BUT ON OWN, AMWORM-I AND AMORLD STEPPING UP TIETABLE

AND HOPEFULLY,

EXPECT CULMINATE THIS EFFORT

* 65 EASTER WEEK (NO

DETAILS PROVIDED BY AMVORA-1). ANBIDDY-: SUPPORTS FAST ACTION THESIS

* BUT MUST AGRES WITH PEPRIMERS IN ORDER GET SUPPORT.

""..

#06aC

wer Car

in done to agai

---

## Page 3

-6.

9414344-011

AMVORM-I FELT WITH INTRODUCTION SUBJS REF B TO MOTHER OF

201-7598796 AMVORM-I. COULD COUNT ON FULL COOPERATION IDEN-I' REP B

IN PROVIDING SEA TRANSPORTATION UNNAMED INFIL GROUPS. ARWORM -1

PROMISED AFTER MEETING ZITH 281-759879 IN SANTO TO INTRODUCE ¡DE:I-:

REF B TO WAVE BASED GROUP UHO LOYAL ANVORH-I FOR IMMEDIATE

TRANSPORTATION PBRLHEM WHEN SIGNAL GIVEN. IDEN-I REF B, REMAINED

NON-COMMITTAL BUT STATED "WE'LL SEL."

2o VIEW ABOVE INFO AND REF A, IT CLEAR ANVORY-I REVELATIONS

PERTAIN TO AMWORLD AMLASH OP.

SECRET

CFN

---

## Page 4

=_

C.

RIFIED MESSAGE

31.& SECRET

PERSON/VIS NOTIFIEC

22°AL AL 11S

1 8 300

Find'ANE

Toro

•CA

ANYANCE COPY

Lite 1 8

VR. FILE DDP

SECRET EARLIE

PRIORITY DIR INFO SDOG ADR CITF YAUE R933

RYBAI YOBITE TYPIC ANOLE AMASH

REF

WAVE 9929(1 apace)

IDENIITY IS 1019 SY 24 ROAD, MIAMI•

SECRET

CFN

H3H8800 A343

---

