# 104-10070-10109

## Page 1

104-10070-10109

8P.:

CONFIDENTIAL.

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

INSTRUCTIONS: Offloer designationa (nee separate sheet) ehould be uned in the "To" ealma.

tind as onch comment. " Iine should be drawn corone sheet and ench comment mmbered to corseumond

with the sumber in the "To" coluen.

Each officer should init al (ohook mirk Inouffiesent)

bafore further routing. Thie Reoord and Routing Shoot mhould be roturned to lorr.

Asthers ma

FROM:

TO

PHT

Paper

ROOM NO.

8807

#ROBIVIO

29/10

DATE

FORWARDEO

RUCT 28

d/"

OFFICERS

557?

COMMENTS

COPY OETAGICA

For files onf

Grecie

188

the

10.

08.

Fyter

c/Rin 201-2364

z/11

62

OCT 80(30

00012

FAG

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 2

OFFICIAL DISPATCH

DISPATCH NO LIBRAR

VIA:

SPECIRY AIR OR BRA POUCH

TO

FROM

CORFIDENTIAL

CLASSIFICATION

:Cief of 800409

Bam

6800

onde? of station, Ca

feder

DATE.

1: 1

1191 - Ota Mo Commoto el salver Orele

Lo Tha follong eno butor stos emorina to persons mattend in referso

sport for your internalen mi posalblo costetame te ovaleting your someo.

To marabondo ut the capero porsco are un hit see el the laportant a

al teen have tom alland to rot the ball el the maniming ioo me 1

Her I Cher Intente a Cun 1n to 1iM D0i0n to 1A Top la to ely M

New allel

tea Casson

I GISTRY COPY

CLASSIFICATION

63-4-7-65

BEST.

OBTAIABLE

FROM

APENTURE

GARD

SUBMITTED

---

## Page 3

• CONFIDENTIAL

he 10 m la Sa Alvar has not boon sentirel

11 mule.

Alrun en 18 tune 1918.

13A8e Allo - Saspartad Commedal el Ilopenso, Il Belvedor, El 12p008 (945).

21120, dora - seapoetal daniados el Iloprago, I deltades, Ill Ropert (9).

Guso, Inners - superted dennalot of Ileparto, il Malvader, ll saper, (9-41).

STEL Seat a Blood to to To ta 102, 10, 807 001600

to Castensio 1a 195 mare he

the Call. :

3421. 41220850 - 8

one for More

Mi C 6

Stag 1

Commot el Antin Candlan 1

arrassa Ba lapan

AMFIDENTIAL

ONTAIMABLE

NAPPAOUCTION

FROM

---

## Page 4

BORADO ATTARO, MArLARO - Suspedad Perrint Of Abrechopar, I Malvesior.

TA laport (916).

COERERO Talonala, lariqn - Sneported Connint el sunta An, 11 Calvedon

за ворог (966).

00a718, leran - Bumpested Cernadet of an Halvador, MA Napert (846).

To sel a Mief el the Mentora! Pound of the Vanile Fpular party

In Coota Ries. Depapted fren Conta lian enter the Ball el the Mont o

mince 1915.

ClAR hso Antondo - Carpentes, S0 Juare el 089. Is Ostabor 1947 roperted po

in 1 ton

imo toan apronted en morea contons for dotribating

Cel ratines dend is Party. Dopertaily Morolaty Coral dEl falo l0 108

Marrat have tootied

In Conta Bim bat 10 now In Crotonala sono to 10 0 stor o 10 Cl

100!

to separato a referen 1u to 11300 to Maro mamo.

B0 2001 6

91, Datal lagual a Papastel Commatel

so Beatal Romanian ele

• dead - Darpeated Cens

4p 36533

Salver. I spent (o)

REPBCOUCTIOT IS BEST OBTAMMELE

FROM APEFTUNG

CURLOTTED

SONFIDENTIAL

63-4-7-68

---

## Page 5

1n Parlotto Moreran Coniston publio ty nonn. 189I 1d8

Repr (96)

ALÁNURA, PodrO - Sespontad Commndos el Abanclapea, Il Balvador. Na Bopazo (At6).

DATURA, RaPRAl - despookod Cornasdos el Atrentepra, Il Delvedor, Ml Raparo (S-t6).

Per Be

CORALE, Hamal - Baspratod Commedon el tanta da, Il Elvador. Ill lapare (A-66).

hy 1918.

no CR8 1o m Insiplent den

m Massal do sasportad Cormnot el Mosferaco, Il Baldor. Il lapero (D-ld).

In mara - Ruspated Cementat el Ana Menel, Il Palmatar, MA sapert

• bese-

estone Demerettes (r0D), a rossatly organles

0 (D)

_CONCIDENTIAL

muda

---

## Page 6

ES 57OAрE

SENATML

mo een tennl - An olduttmo Cecmaint ma som sa yenro el nea. le

n Secrutery denoul el the Badvadmran Comendot Party 1a 1911 end 1938

Ia taprondor 19l8 tn dosartad fer Hmagun and sottlag furtiar bea boon

monrd of kie sctivit e.

mun to El Belveder fres Menrages und en fe nopemo al ly 19a7 meee

mnt ho dlrootod a mrting ol Oommieto ln lm Aalvedor• Two bavo bon

no roonno roporto sucardind ilo doflvitiod.

BADS, Jell dateado - Bueportol Cenmados al Sen MlEras, Il DAIVadar, NA

Парар (01).

MInLaRnMMamMienlm.

I Ou1110, litaled llnno n Taspuotad Ceamndot el senta An, III Melvader.

A Report (P6)

KA. Inml 1 - M0r4 M044001491001

01, Potro lerelo da - sespeotal Conmnlat el lensinate, Il selvaler.

NA Rapert (Plo)•

Arey, al, asatotre 1 l eo nferral on e sda aosesre lo0, Duespoadad

MaAll Eoralla -suspoored désandos el Bostezato, Il Belrados, MA Rapaire (9-ls).

N eAd - MHNNROANARITL t

ui ta hio 2160.

len resteine la ontano mere ho de crtivo ond 10 a mnsr

of the 0811.

B09U1, Moganaro Dagabarro - Opantdared 19 ha engeniy

Sa hno seosisa 1a di.00 eao

SO XLAE GRAL Cosuree In Medeo la Kara 100.

89 BARCU

t nao d a

MogIi, Bllo « Baperted desamos, el Boruyane, 1l

Balveder. lA Basst (94).

E )- bespotal Cealot, el Deseas,

I SAITEr.

DINLEL M BASNTEN QUENIOI & HALENOS, & BNSIE. HI NITA (8N

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 7

A person ef that nou 10 a naber ef the Diretiv

of the Partido Aectón lenovetora baalar the cundidacy of 001. 1089

Asoonaio 1

later ha reportadly nar edled frea Catemin fa Geteber

1947. No 1u belleved do bavo una to Qunta Mles. 100-230 and 260 mention

no sotivitos in Quatemala.

"EMALES, JoaquÍn - Surpontad Cossandot ol Boyazango, Il Salrador, #l Report (8-45).

COMes, 100a MarLa - Juapoorod Comundos al BoTapenso, Il deitados, El ReDOrA

(916).

FAVeL, Podro - suspostad Consundot of Voulutan, El Roport (9-46).

Rogp110 m Suspected Commiet anseted by the persee prior te

May 1945 along u1th esveral other unimportant suprota.

PAMAREO, Antando - Suspostod Conmniet al sen Beltados, MA Bapart (9 16).

TAMBAD, Tolia Suapectod Comendot. NA Report (916).

fumorz, Jorge Edmundo - Suspected Conmundat el fan Badvados. MA Iapost (910).

mm185z, Frenaio0 - Suspectod Connies el Boy penso, ll Salvador. MA lopero (846).

W18E3, Mioolas - Suspoted Corumint of Inostocolisa, Il Salvados, M1 lopera

19-46)

AMIREZ PInadA, Loonando - Suepooted Oceandot of soyepasão, El salvedor.

Ji Ba port (9 46).

RAMIRE, Velerteno -Suspented Corandot ol Doyapago, Il Salvador, Il laport (8-0).

Serão 11o tar 1, - Despontad Cassundat as santa Ala, El salvadas, NA Rapart (8-5).

nt (010).

fos lares ef Ban Salvador.

to ta 10616ng hora, ant 18 16 notod thas cho Jonguin RIVa

tolpa to somaras

alid, Antonio — Suegactos Consentit el Sala As, El Palrados lis Espero (lis).

1, e o - Esposta

CARET OSTARAGLE

FROM APE7

CASA SUOMITTED

-CONFIDENILAL

---

## Page 8

00000

•TIAL

MERo, Dr. Arture - Tho fine entain ma come was to the my ha

Ted On madal tendoneles bat and refermes are far fren emmaluavo, a

to tall el the evidense meld deny that ba da a Crammad, da a enmiidato

tappal 1n, To lAter! end softlos elrados are o1111 referred to an

Maarletos. lo unn el cora suppertol by te domdeto. Thie me the

no nol fer bringing stead the violon flalot to his cantidany. lo

no mosten in em soo, Costa mles and preotlose untiedes. In has statod

that he hen so further pollileel entitle.

Baled uner President MArTIN. M

rtel aftop to Actor'o fall, la a erpententlent sacroiney for the

The later sopors regreing hia do dated

Mano 1916 ton no balpad Oorlen RODRIOUS to erpanine the Inflenl tre

Allotine Omittoo fa Centa 11es.

Bal. Maratno u Darpeedod desmentor el Vallutes, Il Salvador, ll Ropert (846).

to hay boc a minter of the tendean Quander Party Id Miradary el la

offledal Commanded pollag end propaganda organiten leat ta Caltera

FREE, 10. IN 10 lasa in Mules as Vlodor MinaL PAGE.

- Nela в

Dedica

00•

• Inchingto

00. • 11100

CONFIDENTIAL

63-4-7-62

SAY NoCk

370VR:FaA0 1320 C! 401200098432

---

