i04-t0164-10197

oi . i 7
a cue %
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY :
WASHINGTON PS O° Li
To + Director

Federal Bureau of Investigation
Attention: Mr. S. J. Papich

FROM : Deputy Director (Plans) pe iaeaeseaaene

SUBJECT : Alpha 68 - Organization and Plans
ay er: “ie peemgeestic wae say

1. Reference is made to this Agency's teletype OUT 84747 of

6 Octouer 1962, subject” Current Plana of Alpha 66,

2.0 Tne following information concerning Alpha 66, a Cuban
Counterrevolutionary xroup, was received un 7 Septemner 1962 by

j

another office of thia Agency from a source whose reliability ts unkvwn,

a. Alpha 66 ts incorporated under the laws of Puerto.
Rico and is comprised of Cuban certified public accuunt>
auts in exile, for the most part Uving in San Juan, but
with gome representatives.in New-York and Miami. [tis
dedicated to sabotage, harrasamem and similar fit and
Fun type commanda operations against the Castro regime
in Cuba and intends to Carry out Bix to eight such forrays
40 the coming months. The first of these is reportedly
already planned in detatl and will gO Into effect in thé not
too distant future, stemming from some undisclosed island
base in the Caribbean. This organization has no political
aspirations and does not look forward to any position or
representation in & postwar Cuban provisional government,

b, To date all of the support for this organization
baa come primarily from Private sources and they are
&axlous to accept contributions {rom any interested sup-
porter, They have no averaton to working with the United

‘

och
RETURNS.» only
Batict peprr”


1400000



-2-

States Government Lf it will serve their best interests, how-
ever, with or without United States Government coordination
and/or support they intend to go ahead with their plans.

This organization does need more money and equipment

for future cperations which may have to wait until they can
get the resources that they need. Their criticism to date

of all other Cuban exile groups is that they have wanted
power, money, and position, Because this group wants
pone of these, except supplies and cash to get (beir harrass-
ment projects underway, they are, therefure, only tell-

ing what they-must o convince interested helpers of their
seriousness and intent and will disclose only what they

must of their plans to assure them success of this purely
aggressive, retaliatory, harrassment organization, They
claim they want nothing to do with the student group organ-
tzation which recently shelled Habuna. As ex-CPA's their
very businessilke manner requires them to give receipts
for any funds received for help.

c. They now have enough supplies to carry out their
firet operation successfully and maybe one other. The
organization purchased these supplies in Europe to avoid
being identified with strictly United States support and
endorsement. They have approximately $30, 000.00 wluch
they coliected irom private, business subscribers, but
obviously need mure to go ahead after the first attack, At
the prevent time they have one-buat, but need more for
future operations, They plan to use six to ten men per
operation, and all of their training has 60 far been carried
out in Puerto Rico. According to their contact man in New
York, one of their first operations is to blow up ail the -
power stations in Cuba.

d. Their personnel in the executive or lade rstup
phase, although sume are doubtiess in the oper: onal
phase as well, are as followe:

Ai) In New York thetr leader is Aloe rto
GUTLARE Z de la Solana whe is ¢7 Loy

the magaaine Bohenita and Va

AS ODU UE a in SAMI OAT IRL TONES Fen nde ck Se a es

i
:

COANE

aT

Wome itis!

Fe


-

-3-

x

- @) in San Juan, Puerto Rico, the leader
18 Jeronimo ESTEVE, He was a former leader
of the Catholic Family group ta Cuba, (sic)

(4) Other officers tn Puerto Rico are Dr,
Raul JANES, an oculist, J.J. MU »
former vice president of the Trust Company
of Cuba, and Roberto CASTELLON,

(5) SUU other members fn Puerto Rico are
Ricardo GONZALEZ Porta, Pedro MUINA, and
Father Miguel HERNANDEZ (a Catholic priest),
Their positions are Rot known,

e. In addition to the officers in New York and San Juan
which are listed above, they have a hard core of forty five -
combat perseunne! trained in guerrilla operations who are

officer who later was in CA8TRO‘s original army, and tha

other a Castra officer who 16 known as the military com-

mander and operations office, who have directed the train- :
ing and will Carry out the operations when Teady, ”

these men were reported by an untested

Cubana even, though they are nuted in H.
|-Communist activites. This infarmaudiun was iy
ty the Bureau and the Immigranen and Natural zation Service in ths

Agency's CSCI-3/T72, B91 of 1 October 1962,

4. Records of this Agency reveai that one Artonio Carlos VECIANA
Blanch, Probably idpatical with Antonio VECIDVA Blaic
18 October 1828 fa Cuba. VECIANA's connection with
ization was disse iwinated in this Agency's tele

SEE

ee ett



Ye

oe

Qngteaver 168k,

°
& Tats Ageesy’s records seven) thet Pedra mULAA Gos 6s,
Hipaticnl With Pedro MULNA alors, was bere aa le Jnowasy
1889 ia Katara, Cura. Mis was epation ers Usted 03 public excousisot
eat be Und of ond [in0e 109 prosidcat ef the essotiaicn af (alta autuiw on
tire aanetera, Pico presidoct of isversionte baasas, o. A., eG Chrects:
ed aides lotermacsonaisa, 6 A.

« Mais ofisce nas ao rasthor postineet Msxtilienis lalotzaiive
an the above individeaia, Avy oddsliecal intere-nties which i. 87 S0L@
te ibs acteative of toe Agemy W.ll oe forwarded te ths etdresase.

WUT IE

ee: epastuent af state (ovcurity)
Uatense Isislui,ente pte y
vepartroos of the Arr iy
eartscnced of tae avy
Usgartasct of ibe Air 9 0600
Locagrativa ead Neguraientios o¢rv'ce
Barons of \ usted
ourcan cf internelamal Fiugsace, Le Jeb ed of Cow weree

Rased un: Go-A 3,235, 24%

22 October 1902
eb Mur ust 1962

TEW/CL/ LF redrickuun:sab

C-A-3, 28, B56
Dist rioutian: +P September! 1902
Orig & 1 - Addressee

1 - State

1- DIA
d-Aeny

1 - Navy

1- Air Force
1 -14NS

1 - Customs

2- internat’) Programs: tite Be

1 mwa

Sire

A complete RE Trave, ta ate
rrdrviduarls rentianedy aur ©

201-B90a57 (MUINA)
201 SANG SVECTANA®
06 08

1g-300 3

