104-10188-10020|

DISPA

Chief of Station

Chief, Western Hemisphere Division

KDAFGHA: Potential operation
es See anne
i Reference: HUMA-41087, 29 September 1971

1, We appreciate the detailed progress report on KDAFGHAN
subaitted by reference. The complete description of KDAFGHAN
personnel, working routine, facilities and equipuent was very
helpful tn understanding ‘how this project functions.

2. Regarding your request for WOACRE advice and guidance
on hot-miking the lines.running inte the gatehouse and consulate,
_ we have: discussed this possible. operation with WOACRE here who
coffer the following.comments. First, to accomplish a hot-mike
installation, you ‘must be able to get access to the telephone
wires, If you can gain access to the phone lines, it would be
possible to hot-nike the telephone without getting to the instru-
ment itself. * However, a non-access system like this will not
work. if the target line goes through a switchboard or if there
are multiple telephone lines going into the sane instrument.
Based on your description of the embassy telephone system, it
would appear to rule out a hot-mike operation unless you can find
and gain access to a Single. line that does not go through a switch-
board, Any such operation, if one is proposed, would have to be
unilateral because the non-access system is not for exposure to

lfaison,

3. It is possible that your interesta in this operation
could be served equally well by an audio penetration of the
gatehouse, Such a penetration could be made by a carry-in
“quick plant" type of transmitter. Perhaps one of your agents who
regularly visite the gatehouse could be employed to carry in 3
device, or you could exploit KDTUCK-4's close friendship with
KDACOUSTIC-11 to get a transmitter into the target, We would
appreciate your comments.

Distribution: Orig. & 1 - COS, Mexico City

Distribution:
1 ~ ¥ACOG
1 = TSD/AOB

COORDINATING
att eR S eu

(Telecord)

REEASING

_ ie, Ea
S53 var never adinom atet | Bis PATCH



WONW-18664

CONTINUATION OF i
DISPATCH

4. If you vish to pursze this operation, you should con-
wunicate directly with MKSPICS and havea technician look at the”
target the next tise one. is in-tae.arca, Please -info MKSPICE. on

Algo, in the future you may

all future traffic ofthis nature.
fiad it nore satisfactory to aake such requests via a separate

dispatch or cable rather than tacluding it in a progress report,

[Paee Ro

CLASSIRCATION T
SN" 53a uce previous eommion. | T
|__SECRET/RYBAT jLicommues | 9

a

en



TE a
av:
7 Jeey JOKE Pre. worcety,

cae Feuer ed

i
i


ae

Fa 2593

CONFIDENTIAL

NOTICE

THIS FILE HAS BEEN PROCESSED AND RETIRED, DO NOT

ADD ANY DOCUMENTS TO THIS FCLDER, FORWARD CS

DOCUMENTS THAT SHOULD BE INCLUDED IN THIS FOLDER

TO IP/RPU GE-58,

NOTICE

CONFIDENTIAL

ey



SECRET

ben FaeN 2180

Woadquarters component). ney

_] + SUBIEC) AND FRUUECE Fhe REQUEST
AND FIELD NOTIFICATION OF ACTION

16 7
IP/AN .

YO + (Stotion/Sase) :
Sxice CITY

FROM: (Division)
iD

INFORMATION FOR REQU

NOAMNDING A TITLE. CHE

COMPLETE TEMS 1 THROUGH? HM os ENTeR OO TiTLF we
ANY FUYS, SUCHE AS 201 OW PHOJECI FILES THAT ARE RES

Ahem 3-ALL FILE TITLES MUST OF STEANE SINCE, EY Wie
ty tenn Cite 19 tiie WE COVIED BY Tins HEQUEST: EM 10 MAY
APPEAR ON THE FIELD COPIES AND ON MACHINE LISTS. As BE USED Th GIVE HEAZONS FON THE ACTION. OEING RE*
QUESTLD. TO IGEN THY, THE: TYPC-OF MATIIFAL TO UE PLACED

WA PILE OF 10 MAKE OTHLH EXPUANATOIS HEMARKS.

ALL REMARKS MUST BE STTRILE,

tree
HEM 7 ANO @-USE FIRST TURE LETTERS OF Orsratcn sym:
BOLS FOR FIELO STATIONS ANO UST MLADQUARTERS FLC> [ITEM TEA RECGOHDS OFFIGEH MUSE SIGN ALL FILE ACTION RE
MUNTS ACCORDING TO ESTABLISHED NUMERIC CODES. CONSULT YOUR MG UN ANT POUL EMS THAT ARSE

com Gn NUMGoR
ae ae
1
1
t

Tre OF FILE

i
a

FRONTS Ui

S FUF Title iSrEGIFIC SUBJECT

RDAPUHA

erations

DEIPOsITION

ANALYSIS ACTION,
BH | GEE TIETION RECOMMENDED

Thny tater

OPEN FRE Jeter

AMEND FILE TTGE fecoven
GAHRE (FOR FRCS ASTRO TIONT

FINTERESTED STATIONS WPROVECTS ONLVT
f

FILES ACTION

SHARE PERMANENTLY TO
forriccn a bese!

HOLD IN peeey Neuen PREPARE FOLDEH ANG.
es FES eee byaasuatetaauhaat SEND TO REQUEST

(CLUDE SPLCUL HEADQUARTERS ROUTING INSTRUCTIONS!

To COMMENTS «|

1 1_APPROWAL

a ENDORSEMENT
EGNATURE OF euAncnJOESK®

‘Siawatine Gi weancy WEGULST APPwOvEO OY

vod eo
TTReTE PTE :
) Darek 1973

WOMnER

CODE

ob 7232/3 |

set toes copy



8 BCR BT/RYBAT

Taare

Chief, Buropean Division

om

Chief of Station,

mee Pee

EDAPGHAN=1

ACTS Ai gUIRTO TREES

_ BEF: DIRECTOR 312153

Attachment: u/a/c
2 Passports

Distribution:
3 - C/WHD w/att u/o/e
3 - C/EUR w/o att

22 IMPDEP

[ OsPATCH svmect Axo NuMate ia nae

Forwardod under separate cover are KDAFGIAN~1's
passports. Ho was paid $2,000.00 on 23 January

for which he signed a receipt,

Gerald D, FAHLANGER

24 January 1973

301-288248



DISPATCH | sven

Chief, Western Hemisphere Division

X___ |no.teorstnc evavieto

Jomir quaunito o1sK.
can puoct motxKG

7
Chief of Station, Mexico City &” | micPOFiUM,

ane
<_KDAFGHAN/Progross Report for: Period 1 April Through 31 July_1972.

oe Roo TIO UCL)

Action; Terminate the KDAFGHAN Project

References: A. HM. 1906, 2 May 1972
B. MEXICO CLTY-20107
C, DIRECTOR=280180

1. Qperational Activities: This Project continued as before
for the major portion of this period with KDAFGHAN providing photo
coverage for cixht how's per day, five days per week, of the AMFINK
installation. In April the principal agent, KDAFGHAN-1, was provided
with new photographic cquipment to improve the quality of the take,
This later proved unuseable as ‘sunlight playing on the mirror of
the lens was plainly visible from the target arca in the afternoons.
The Agont returned to the use of his old equipment. It being the
current Case Officer's practice to hold nearly all moctings with
tiis Agent in the Case Officer's auto about once every two wecks we
decided to terminate-the KDAFGHAN satehouse as unnecessary.
KDAFGUAN-1 was notified of this in early June and nearly collapsed,
The safchouse had been his refuge from the OP and his mother, _~
KDAFGIAN-2. . We intended to put him on vacation when it was decided
(References B and C) to terminate him and his Project. The last
portion of this poriod was then spent in closing down the operation,
removing equipment from the OP, restoring the OP to its original
condition and then assisting the Agents in thels preparations for
resettling’ to Madrid. All of this was finally accomplished. by
31 July and the Agents were formally terminated on 1 August.

Continued.

Distribution:
¢ Ovig. & 2 = Chief, WHD

“Sco

ress nett 19 ‘DOPATGH SYMBOL AD MSE E

HMMA - 42227 7 August 1972

ew



PiehA Tam WHOL AG HEMET

CONTIHUATION OF ;
DISPATCH {

HMMA. = 42227

2. Sceurity: There were no security incidents during this

period,

3. OM Cli The termination of these two Azents
came as a se Shock to both; they were not prepared foe tt
Trey have adapted fairly well and now are looking forward to
thetr new 1ife in Spain. They intend ‘to depart wexien for Madrid
on 1 September, 3

4. Produc eon: gbioduction for this period was normal until
20 June whew It ceased permanently, .

Administrative/Finance:. There was a large. amount of
administrative. det, “hivelving Headquarters and the Madrid
Station''tn the resettlement of these two Agents, This has been
‘ ate cable traffic. Costs exceeded the programmed
amount becauso of the. large severance pay paid both agents who had
One Kee cars Service each, KDAFGHAN-1 was paid U.S, $8,170.00

and KDAFGHAN-2 was paid U.S. $2,228.48,

We have no plans to replace KDAFGHAN with another
7 oto-surveillance project. The productine does not
justify the cost. flowever, we do have plans to obtain a multi-
ero toe wpaschouse in the area’ that can serve as a site for taking
Photos when necessary, servo us a LP for future audio operations
against AMFINK, and as a-base from which to dispatch a future
surveillance team, The PBRUMEN section has. already started the
Search for agent assets who, in turn, can look for an appropriate
Site. The aequisttion of the latter will be the most difficult as
wertal property is at .a premium in the AMFINK aren. Headquarters
will be kept informed of our progress.

Mifettifie a

SSC / GARDALPHE

- CCABRIFIEATION TRaGENO-
i

—
SECRET i | 2 of 2

Use PAcvioUs co:TION.



OF tus Core pa

is:
n ST

Prue

SEGRE T 0317432 auc 70 stare 675370. h
CITE MEXICO cITy ROSTEDT ACTING) "
PRIORITY DIRECTOR. iP :
EB iorrciay
REFL DIRECTOR. 296651
l. PROPOSED Text oF LETTER IS SATISFACTORY, PLEASE maqL
ASAPs APPRECIATE HOS PRONPT RESPONSE Tuss MATTER,
& FILE: 50-6-122/3, 201-286248, 201-305604,
WN- SISM, ee :
SECRET : F

BOC. MICRO. SER

wie
aug 14
OF ILMEO

MICR

S6-¢ 22/3

Brot 2684
: 03 AUG 1972

Brel 305 667 53. Copy


one
units

MHS MLE NO.

cal Melly segs = fe

ors x

chi I 3! pees ee
/ :

ae

tered

Dros ra

SIC ESS : cue DaSCOR

vo FPRICRITY MEXICO CIN] INFO

Stren _

REFS: A. MEXICO CMY 20575 (IN 675507)

i
y 20576 (IN 673509) - op

C, DIRECTOR 294880

im iene ten)

AUB 15 1972
MICROFILMED

1, PROPOSED TEXT KDAFCHAN-1 JOB REFERENCE FOLLOWS:

ALT

I$ TO ADVISE THWE IDEN A XiS ON RETAINER BY ex B FROw (
SOR OF A LE :

JANUARY 1SGRSTRCUGH JULY 1972. IDEN A, TE POSSE

SERICAN EUST

TRANSLATED LEGAL DO NTS PERTAINING TO LATIN

Tien TO THE PRESENCE Wi

SPECIAL NUANCES THAT COULD ee

SPECLAL ATI: N GF +

TSINSACTIONS.
CF 6,000 PES:
MASSING TUE THE TRANSIATI:

ECAR ON IDEN B'S CONTRACTS, NEGOTIATIONS, AND

TED AT THE

S$. IDEN A RAS COMPENS FER ANNUM.

C. i MOULD LIKE TO NOTE IN.

PERFORMED EY IDEN A WAS GN CCCASION QUITE Ct NEEAL IN CHARAC

‘E BEEN OF eetty INTEREST ‘TO CUR EUSINESS CTTORS RAD IT RES

OST DISCRETE. IN HANDLING

DISPLAYED THE UTX

7 TEM.

CCNTINUAD,

Boer 299718



omer
ears
ear:
oare. :

‘CARCE SECHETARIAT crsSEMINATION iE wore C} nomex © () netumi tou eraxcn LJ rice eo

oy.

Orie mes rite no.

cone z

a iesreriasstissieae i tee

Wea Tie eed bre veal TNA RR ET Sey eH

: _SECRET/SYRAT_ ene oscioR of
vo FRRIORITY MEXICO CITY INFO aie lau 7

PASE ThO 7
D. 1 CAN PERSONALLY RECOLMEND IDEN A VERY RICHLY. HAD HE DECIDED TO
ASED TO CONTINUE HIS RETAINER,

REMAIN IN MEXICO, OUR FIRM OULD HA

BEEN PLE

E. SIGNED II C, PRESIVENT,.

2.1F LEVTER ACCEPTABLE STATION, EQS WILL MALL VIA RECULAR INTERNATIONA
AIRMAIL TO REE C ADDRESS,

<3. FILE: $0-6-122/3,201-288218, 201-303604, EX-2 AFDIR, WN-SISM.

i END CF MESS)

ty. Fas will
y for cestents p,
text agreed upan letter will be mailed to K-L from ih
netional coxpany.

eee ee


Cape Secreraniat DISSEMINATION

S eo f
hy, ie Filled ini

UCTION OF Tis Com Pace,

ROWER ONT

SECRET o11s252.auc 72 STAFF. |) DESENSITIZED
ne x 20-,
CITE MEXICO CITY 305% (ROS? EDCACT ING) fe

PRIORITY DIRECTOR Taro |.
GEEZ uoarony 4

Pee ele - 673507
REF: DIRECTOR 294889 spiiausted

1. CONCUR REF PROPOSAL, PARA 4 AND 5 BEE ANSWERS aREs

‘Ae SUBJ TRANSLATED LEGAL DOCUMENTS, conTRacT.

S, NEw
LAWS-EFFECTING COMMERCIAL DEALINGS,

ETC. (PER HQS Para 2 REF
SUGGESTION). SHOULD STRESS TkaT THIS INVOLVED TRANSLATIONS OF
CONFIDENTIAL Aw

app te ~

AB
D DELICATE waTURE AND THAT

DISCRETION IN HANDLING THESE,

B. DATES oF EMPLOYMENT = 1 JANUARY 1585 TO 34 JULY i972.

SUBJ SHCWED UTMOS:

C. SALARY: 6,006 PESOS,
D. EXACT DATE OF DEPARTURE: 4 SEPTENSER A972
E. CURRENT ADDRESS: (IDEN)!

2. DO NOT RPT NOT SEND LETTER. OF REFERENCE By CERTIFIED OR *

SPECIAL DELIVERY MAIL AS THIS WILL Cause Gz =AT DELAY IN DELIVERY,
: USE REGULAR INTERNATIONAL AIRMAIL,

3. FYI: SUBU CURRENTLY TAKING INSTRUCTOR’ S COURSE aT

BERLITZ AND INTENDS TQ APPLY For POSITION at BERL ITZ MADRID,
Brei- IBIAS 39. p00y : (pA RUE Be
is 7 :
Boi- PoC SECRET Sek poy


CussiFig€o MESSAGE TOTAL Corie!

SECRET
(When Filled In}

ALE_SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATICN

ROUTING AND:08 INITIALS SEEN BY
3

PAGE 2 MEXICO CITY 20575 S ECR ET | 7
4e FILE2 58-6-122/3, 201-288248, 201-305604,

EX=2, APDIR, YN-SISM,
SECRET : : pec i

grria



N

paiapenia oe gel ape

a

"Eel:

SECRET 3112342 JUL-72 STAFF

cite aman (f° Ea

DIRECTOR INFO MEXICO CITY. IP

REF DIRECTOR 294889

1. HAVE SUSJECT CONTACT MR. HARVEY .C A S H, AMERICA

” CONSUL GENERAL, AT EMBASSY.
2. WE ARE CULLING POSSIBLE ENPLOYNENT LEADS AND WILL.

ADVISE BY REF DEADLINE IF ANY FOUND.

3, FILE: 30-6-122/3; 201-288243; 201-395604. EX-2
APDIR, ¥N-SIS# :

SECRET

B20 -28S.2498
B 2el- Bosee# CS copy aia,
7 SECRET 50-6 -/22/3



n
W712
ti 7375/9354
ewe 28 SULY 720 !
comeocencramar oveewmaron | T} me £9,
asseeunnS Be | DG races mie nea La
For 5
= Chile i pee aelewt let. off2. aia cles
—Teinatasiaay CoS ae ee el
StCRET ae san 7 CITE DIRECTOR
' yo [7 PRIORITY : : f 1.
MEXICO CITY INFO : up 292886

REFS: A. MEXICO CITY 20554 (IN 670094) NOT SENT
B. MEXICO CITY 20800 (IN 666296) NOT SENT
C. MEXICO CITY 20204 (IN. 842397) NOT SENT
D. CIN 666243) *¥a8

1. IN DISCUSSIONS WITH WOGAME BEST COURSE ACTION

KDAPGHAN-1 CASE APPEARS BE “BACKSTOPPED ROT REFERENCE
FROM NOTIONAL U.S. CON@ANY WHICH SAYS IT HAS WIDE BUSINESS

INTE TS IN LATIN AMERICA. THIS COMPANY WOULD ANSWER ‘ALL

CORRESPO! ISDE

Ef OR TELEPHONE INQUIRIES RE KDAFGHAN-1'8 JOB

ENCE. :
2. STATION MEXICO CITY, SUGGESTED REF C THAT X=1
IAN OR ,

REVE.

WOULD LIKE WORK AS SPANISH OR ENGLISH TEACHER, SAL!

IN PUBLIC RELATIONS, X-1 HAS LUMLTED ACTUAL EXPERTENCE TN

CONTINUED, «6

DOG. MICRO. SER.

AUG +: Whe
MICROFILMED.

>
4
3
2
,
ee io

1 2V§D1S i

AULEASING EFTICER

Beep 30 VOOY RuIRCON

. cowr te,
SO-b 12 J?



Eee ee

[ SECRET/RYRAT.

—

PAGE 2

outes ;
CauLg ALGRLTARIAT GIBDENIHATION i woe EC] nomocx —C] neruan ro
" cru

—— BRANCH

O reincs re no.

yt

conn.

‘o re 10

iL mew : ce

7 Tate oad tire Gedy
-SECRET/RYBAT PAGE TWO ‘cite oinccron 2.14 SNCF
ro
ALL THESE FIELDS. BELIEVE MOST CREDIBLE NOTLONAL REFERENCE

WOULD BE THAT K-L WORKED ON RETAINER FOR U,S, COMPANY DOING

N AMERICAN COMMERCIAL LAWS AND CONTRACTS;
AND NO NEED FOR COMPANY

TRANSLATION LATL
THUS K-1 COULD HAVE WORKED AT HOME
OFFICE IN MEXICO CITY. -

3, NOTIONAL COVER COULD: EN
COMPANY SALESMAN OR PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENT,
F EXPERIENCE THESE FIELDS IT DOUBTFUL HE WOULD.

ARGON TO MAINTAIN, SUCH COVER THROUGHOUT
SUGGEST

<d

0
EAD BE MADE FOR K-21 AS
BUT UNLESS HB

HAS YEARS 0)

KNONLEDGE OR J.
ARLY STAGES. EMPLOYMENT IN SPAIN.
REFERENCES FROM TRUE PAST
S SALESMAN AND IN
IF COULD OBTAIN

HAVE
INTERVIEWS OR IN FE.
GEER. HAVE K-1 TRY OBTAIN

EMPLOYERS TO COVER HIS ACTUAL WORK AS

PUBLIC gee TLONS WHICH NOTED IN REF C.
:EVEN TF ONLY “WORKED: AT JOB FOR SHORT TIME,

RENCES,

THESE RE!
+ THEY WOULD USEFULLY AUGY
EXPLAINING 1115 WORK IN t

T NOTIONAL: REF
1CO FOR TEN YEARS.

CONTINUED...

weuoee

vUeacine CrriCra

RIFE

AUTHENTICATING

orien

cory na.



ome:
wnat

un PAGE THREE

_ enous gecneraniar ersceumation | CJ) wore [J nomoex C] nerunnto—___ onanen  ] ene nio
suena 2] memes meno.
eae iB =
El inevn HEE
Wartatesy CSCS gd nw ele a aD
. RET/RYBAT PAGE THREB me CITE DIRECTOR 2GUSSE :
ro f ; cite =|
4, IF NOTIONAL BACKSTOPPED COVER ACCEPTABLE TO STATION,
M 1igs NEED? FOLLOWING:
A) SOME NOTIONAL DETAILS DUTIES HE PERFORMED
_ FOR COMPANY, ; :
B) DATES HE WORKED.
C) SALARY (SUGGEST IT BE CLOSE TO ACTUAL SALARY
OF 5300 PESOS).
5. PLS PROVIDE EXACT DATE K-1 PLANS LEAVE MEXICO AND
CURRENT: ADDRESS K-1 MEXICO CITY. HQS WILL CABLE PROPOSED
TEXT K-1 JOB REFE E TO MEXICO CITY FOR YOUR COMMENTS
PRIOR TO MAILINC.. ONCE TEXT AGREED UPON LETTER WILL BE
REMAILED TO K-12 FROM HOME CITY OF NOTIONAL COMPANY.
ROMRANL
CONTINUED. .
2 :
; Ps
: :
: :

AUTENTICATING
ALLEAsinG OFFICER orricen

cory no,



eesace ron
Toray cours

unity

ext’ PAGE FOUR
pate:

: L. ECRET/RY BAT.

_esmuesrenanareissomnarien TE) wee C) womoca  [] netunn ro Peers Peres
- 2. TO) rie inca rive no. ;

a LVR,

ema Tate waa Tine View Se ae aoe
SECRET/RYBAT cre viceron 2IUSSO

wo 6. SUGGEST AT TERMINATION K-1 BE TOLD REFERENCE 7 |

| BY MAIL

H FORTHCOMING»

cee ee

ALSO SUGGEST THAT K-1 BE GIVEN TWO MONTHS SALARY
IN ADDITION TO REGULAR TERMINATION TO COVER KORMAL JOB : .
HUNTING PERIOD IN SPAIN, THIS WOULD SEEM NORMAL SIGN OUR

APPRECIATION HIS YEARS OF SERVICE.
7. SEE LITTLE VALUE REF B SUGGESTED JOB REFERENCE FROM =~
i

KDACROBAT-1 AS HE ALSO LEAVING. MEXICO AND COULD NOT BACKSTOP.

8. STATION MEXICO CITY HAS GIVEN. WOACRE

PASSPORTS TO KDAPGIAN-1 AND 2,: THEY. OBTAINING U.S. AND 7 .
STOPOVER WASHINGTON D.C, TO

SPANISH VISAS AND WILL MAKE
VISIT BROTHER ON WAY TO SPAIN,: PLS PROVIDE ASAP NAME OF

TO WHOM K-1 IS TO TURN OVER PASSPORTS.

CONTAC’
9. DOES WAVE CONTACTS WHO MIGHT PROVIDE
EMPLOYMENT K-12 PLS CABLE ANY ‘EMPL 'T LEADS DIRECTLY

MEXICO CITY PRIOR 5 AUGUST WHICH DATE STATION PLANS BREAK
CONTACT WITH K-1, :
10. FILE: $0-6-122/3, 201-288243, 201-305504, EX+2, APDIR, kN: SISM.

' END OF MESSAGE

wena

aUTnnnicaTing
ULriceR:

cory no.



Tsten oF

F aay 7
oma: ;
unr 1
en PAGE FIVE i
: one
esti Sema crencramarorssimmarion - | C} woex [] nowocx [1] nerunnro___omancn re mio
oy —_____ren___es. OF memes ene no.
cane iz]
El rue ve
——aar Taare ead oe Tn] scott eae
—SECRET/RYBAT PAGE FIVE "ene viscror 2 JLYESO
wT i ict 7q
7 7 WH COMMENT: “(REFS A THRU.C SENT SPECIAL Cl b :
e : i *REF A STATES Spay PLAN BREAK CONTACT
oa 7 N iT IF HQS CAN't
7 xX LRXNRXAN:

x ENCES THEY PLAN.

THS SALARY TO T HIM OVER WHILE

SPAIN. ALSO ASKS FOR NAME

7 H _SPAIN TO RECEIVE WOACRE PASSFORTS:
Md FROM K-1 AND K-2.

*SREF B STATES | SHAY oP BEING CLOSED out

H ANSWER RE BACK TOPPED "JOB REFERENCE FOR K-1.

ALSO SUGGESTS K-1 COULD GET JOB REFERENCE .
FROM KDACROBAT-1, BUT WOULD CROSS OPS,

SUGGESTS K-1 MAY HAVE TROUBLE GETTING JOB
+ MADRID AND ASKS IF HQS OR CONTACTS COULD °
ASSIST.

*#eeREF C SAYS Kel PLANS RESETTLE SPATN
NCES

PROBLEMS, JOB REFE. COVERING T.
Ico AND PASSPORT, ICH [S WOACRE

DB iiAS TWO
YEARS IN
ASSPORT.

N

Eesoronl> TAT IT"
SH AUTHORITIES

S*e*RER DIS
“APPEARS _PASSPOR

ann [7 ¢
CONTACT FOINT TO PICK UP PASSPORTS PROM K+

Cin draft)
1

CCS/DEB,
WH/C/OPS
E/IB/S

53 B. FLANNERY
zo AC/MID

RULZASING OFFICER

PEFRODUS


z
5
Hl
H
i

CABLE SECRETARIAT’ DISSEMINATION

SS ee 28 Wher fee

—
DESENSITIZED 1

RERATRA

<Te]

|

ne
aes 7

oe

CITE JSHRYOCK ACT LNG)

base oy AF oR . ‘pe DOL 70-22
ewe |i] EAEWR :
SECRET 2, Zz JUL 72 STAFF ' x
570837 >

DIRECTOR INFO MEXICO CITY.
SEED KdAFG Hann/ 3

REF: A. OJRECTOR 292249

. (2 Hoo72¥5)

a
1. . PLAN FOR KDAFGHANS TO APPLY. FOR CITIZENSHIP AFTER ARRIVAL on 8

EANS. ACCORDING TO

CUBAN PASSPORT SHOULD BE MOST EFFECTIVE

QUSEQUIN/62, PERSONS FROM LATIN AMERICA CAN APPLY AFTER COMPLET IO)
TvO YEARS RESIDENCE IN SPAIN, COMPARED TO MUCH LONGER PERIOD 7 =
FOR THOSE COMING FROM OTHER AREAS. ONCE NATURALIZATION GRANTED,
PASSPORTS ARE NOT RPT NOT RETAINED BY AUTHORITIES.

MANY CHOOSE TO KEEP THIER PASSPORTS DURING THIS TWO YEAR

PERIOD IN CASE THEY MUST TRAVEL HOWEVER, ONCE KDAFGHANS RESIDENCE

ESTABLISHED AND THEY RECEIVE LOCAL CEDULA FOR NORMAL IDENTIFICATION, .

THEY CAN APPLY FOR SPANISH ONE-TRIP “APATRIDA” (STATELESS PERSON) | |

PASSPORT SHOULD TRAVEL BE NECESSARY. CASH INCENTIVE SHOULD

INDUCE AGENTS TO RETURN PASSPORTS SOONEST. ONLY HITCH MAY BE

PROBLEM OF ENTERING AS PBRUMEN CITIZENS WISHING TO ESTABLISH

RESIDENCE, ASSUME MEXICO CITY CAN EXPLORE WITH LOCAL

REPRESENTATIVES HANDLING tines 28 JUL 97
vo

SECRET 50-€-/2



CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION CLASSIFIED MESSAGE __ToTAL COPIES ROUTING AND. 08 INTIALS.SEmN BY
FRAT OTT SECRET ;

< Witen Fite)

REPROOLCTION OF Tes COHY Peaviarta

oissow oY, posses

<7 | =

PAGE 2 SECRET
Ma 2. STATION MAKING APPROPRIATE ARRANGEMENTS WITH EXBASSY
a FOR CONSULAR OFFICER TO BE PICK-UP POINT TO EXCHANGE PASSPORTS

FOR CASH SETTLEMENT WITH KDAFGHANS. WILL ADVISE NAME SOONEST.
3. FILES 59=6-122/3, EX-2, APDIR, WN-SISM
a SECRET



TAULE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
RENT RoR

EE

Ho

DESENSITIZED

per Os 70-17.

Sevdis” _cLep

sovince cov (Jissuo sorte TEPRCOUCTION GF This COM PROMBTEO

JUL 72 STAFF 666243 - |
RYOCK ACTING) : : r
DIRECTOR INFO MEXICO CITYs

hs REF DIRECTOR 292249

I E559 varcuan
i fan

{OH CASES. IT APPEARS
PROBABLY NOT REPEAT NOT IN WHICH EVEMT PROCEDURE OUTLINED
“DIRECTOR 288003 WOULD BE SOUND.
2. STATION ARRANGING FOR LNGOLD OFFICER TO BE CONTACT POINT '
ONCE PASSPORTS AVAILABLE AND MONEY CAN BE PAID. WILL ADYISE NAME

He AND CONFIRM PARA ONE ABOVE SOONEST.

3. FILE: 5@-6-122/3. EX-2, APDIR, WN-SISM.
SECRET

: 6S copy Be JUL WZ
: . SECRET 50-€-732

22/3


ee

smd>

wi/t

4167 “ : i
Luly 1972. rat! AE
ie oe FC wots, [ne woes oO a re m0

Chyice  eFrve wat p 79-22

ger_>0)

caerar ie ree Sess g BIR Sn Se she— a

Wesciareay Tae TS ee oa) eee Sree
SECRE T int nv QS7. CITE DIRECTOR i
{ INFO; MEXICO CITY |] H. an q
° ae i . 288093

“INCOME, K-1 HAS BEEN TOLD BY LOCAL Se CONSUL (St tC} THAT

AFGHAN -i (IDEN A) AND

RDAFGUAN Idol pe a

KDAFGHAN-2 (IDEN B)S SPAIN IN AT THEIR REQUEST, K-~-l DIRECTED PHOTO

SURVEILLANCE OPERATION WHICH RECENTLY TERMINATED, WITH

ee r
TEPMINATION DO NOT ENVISAGE FURTHER BKTRUST USE OF OR CONTA‘

RY

WIT" K-1 OR K-2,

2, K-LSAYS CAN GET VISA SPAIN AND CAN APPLY IMMIGRANT

STATUS BECAUSE HIS FATHER NATURAL-EORN SPANIARD, ALSO, K-1

OWNS CONDOMINIUM APARTMENT MADRID WHICH PROVIDES 323 SMALL
GAN Supat
WiLL GET TOURIST VISA FOR SPAIN IN CURREN
SHOULD SUBMIT CITIZENSHIP APPLICATION ON ARRIVAL MADRID,

HOWEVER ,TO GET IMMIGRANT VISAS BEFORE LEAVING MEXICO WOULD

(CONTINUED)



ervtace roe
Foran este

tor Hee .
in { ‘RET.
"
-
te
= ce aecnnramar orecemeeation | CJ see [J nomeed,  [) neruny p92 ———— ance D meno
rt | OD rte ePrice no.
rn a
wor
ENE DIRECTOR 4

Tasers 1

M pace.
3, HQS CONCURS MEXICO CIT

7 SUGGESTION THEY USE WOACRE
SPORTS FOR MAKING TRIP TO SPAIN BU WANTS BE SURE RECOVER

PAS!
PASSPORTS. CAN MADRID VERIFY THAT K-l AND K-2 WOACRE PASSPORTS
zx. : ea

Tay ? ASPHALT”
BY SPA NISH OFFICIALS Dtt NORMAL PMMIG RANT

WILL NOT BE

PROCESSING?“

DO YOU HAVE INPUT BEST WAY FOR K-1 AND

4
Ke2 APPLY CITIZENSHIP SPAIN? DOES PARA 2 WAY

APPEAR FEASIBLE?

PREFER NOT USE LIAISON ASSISTANCE FOR K-1 AND K-2 UNLESS

ABSOLUTELY NECESSARY,
Bs

| WHICH WILL BE PAYABLE W

3, 069 OF K-1 TERMINATION MONEY

288, PLAN HOLD BACK USS

HEN HE PETURNS WOACRE PASSPORTS AFTER

1S AND K-2 APPLICATION SPANISH CITIZENSHIP, REQUEST

CONTACT WITH K

-1TO PASS HIM MONEY IN EXCHANGE FOR

PASSPORTS SUGCEST CONTACT COULD BE IN CONSULATE,
.

POSEIBLY WITHOUT EXPOSING BKTRUSTER TO Kel, CAN ARRANGE 4
(CONTINUED) ‘

ip easing OFFICER



orancn - [J] remo
ret | 0 men re no

ae | ee

- CITE DIRECTOR

Vpaces TASKS

SUGGESTED OR OTHER CONTACT FOR EXCHANGE? MEXICO CITY WILL
_ PROVIDE FIRM ETA, WHICH EXPECTED ABOUT MID-AUGUST,
6, FILE: 50-6-122/3. EX-2, APDIR, WN-SISM.

.END OF MESSAGE

Liss

Abe/wa _s-
i WH/FT__

WH/COG

E/1B/S

yf EQDORE ‘c. SHACKLEY
C/WiD

owen

RELEASING OFFICER,

Rir8OE



Chief of Station,

PROCSSING ACH

TasnasTion

Chief of svi

DISPATCH [.Teres

emisphere Division x i" orang sce

im ovate ove

Jere

Lon, 3 i
KDAFGHAN/Progvess Report for Perfod 1 January Through 21 Mave 1872

ieenett

Action Required; See. Paragraph 10

References: (A, MMMA-41490, 11 January 1972
+ MEXICO CITY-18887
C. MEXICO CITY-18889
DB, HNMMW=18913, 10 March 1972
£, MMMW-18914, 10 sarch 1972

Su: The Project continues as before, routinely
producing photos and information of the activities of AMFINK
personnel and their visitors. KDAFGHAN was able to implicate
one AMPINK in a criminal activity, but unfortunately the GoM
whitewashed the case, Another possible lead to a solution of
our security problem has cropped up in the form of KDAFGHAN-1's
girlfvdend, e_had.no luck in_locating a new OP site to {
ice this one, KDAFGHAN-L continues to have hi v
problemas; but the

y have yet to reach the point where they affect
the security of this operation.

+ Ope Activities: With the exception of the month
of March the F don their activities as us al, pro-
viding photographic coveraye of the entrance to AMFINK from 0900
to 1800-each working day. In March, we had KDAFGHAN change his
hours .to trom 1600 hours, when the AMFINKS return from lunch, to
2300 hours, when the last one usually leaves for home. - This
coverage convinced us that most, if not all, AMFINK clandestine ke
activity tg carried out in the afternoon und evening hours. They]. ~y
ave Cxtromely active durinis this pare of day in the sense of the yw.)
humber of trips they make outside of AMFINK, Some even disappeared. he
completely during most of the afternoon, ts intormation should
help our efforts to survelll the AMFINKS. A lucky break was had
when KDAFGHAN witnessed the return of the Subject of 201-886893 from

fereeus ay

2. oO

Continued,

Distribution:
¥ Orig, & 2+ Chief, wip

1 - cos, ts copy

! IMMA = 41906.-- "2 May 1972

aS FEW



CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH

WH Era bSL AND ROM oer

JUMMA = 419

the incident in which he was involved. We were able ‘to pass
this information a the police through the KDGLACTERS. ° Up until
that time the, p> @obeoa after anothov AMPINK. With this
Information they were rapidly able to identify, the culprit,

3. Cur technician paid a visit to the KDAFGHAN site during
this period and spent most of one day on updating his techniques.
This has resulted in a further improvement in the quallty of his --
a photographs, ..H@,was-also briefed on and given a night-viewing
: device .to use” "during? the March. evening surveillances. Unfor-
- tunately this device proved of no use because of lighting condi-
tions.

Bt 4. -The: Case’ Officer and the KDCALVERTS have spent a great
deal-of timé during thiS-period looking for an alternate OP site.
The “KDCALVERTS have been looking for one to servo as a basehouse
for-their surveillances of the AMFINKS and we for an OP to replace
the present KDAFGHAN site. Neither of us has had any luck. The
arew is highly’ desirable because of its proximity to excellent
transportation and because it is-a middle class residential "oasis"
ina heavily commercialized area. We continue to look, but are
now less optimistic on our chances of finding a new site,

5. Security: KDAFGHAN-1 was SGSWIRLED during this quarter
with no signs of deception. (References B and E) The SGSWIRL
reveaicd a girlfricnd and confirmed his correspondence with
relatives in PBRUMEN. It also revealed that he assumes that
KDIUCK~-19 works for us since he had recommended him to us at
least three times. After the last recommendation KDTUCK-19 told
KDAFGHAN-1 that.somebody had been investigating him and KDAFGHAN-1
drew the obvious conclusion, ‘The girlfriend (Reference C) is
interesting, An East European immigrant, we have one card showing
that she was the object of the attention of the Subject of 201-
012972, a suspect intelligence officer, Unfortunately, neither
we or Headquarters have ‘been able to locate the basic document,
HMM¥-13665, 7 June 1965, Because of this, and her sharing one
of the beds in the KDAFGHAN safehouse with KDAFGHAN, we intend
to check her out’ throughly (see plans and Headquarters’ action
required below). Because of our suspicion that KDAFGHAN-1 or
KDAFGHAN-2 is possibly being monitored by the AMFINKS, we have
cut our meetings with him to two a. month and taken special counter-
surveillance precautions at each meeting. So far, we have noted
nothing unusual. Ouv plans ‘for a CI operation designed to smoke
out any possible ANFINK monitoring.of this operation are being
held in abeyance pending the results of our investigation of the
Subject of Reference C.

There have been no meetings with

eriod except for the one visit by our

KDAFG! 1 continues to show sporadic

if ot mental instability. In
addition he seems to be becoming more and more passive. Through
his observation of AMFINK he gains a great deal of information of
interest to us. While our files show that once he used to report
this, we now find that it has to be pumped out of him bit-by-bit,
with he apparently either not recognizing or being interested in
its significance. In our opinion, an extended vacation away from
KDAFGHAN-2 is long overdue. 7

7. Production: Production continued as before during this

period with the exception of the month of March when no photos were
taken because of the hours. We-have begun showing some of the

7 photographs of local contacts to the KDSALEMS. To date the results

6. Agent Personne
KDAFGHAN-
technict

have been negative. | We continue to pass the appropriate portions
of KDAFGHAN production to LNERGO. :
EsEEES eee sutures sani Sezacezeal CLASS eH 7 PAGE NO.
Sica! S3a_ use rnevious coition. | SEC xd ebemuee i 2063



CREATION THSPAT BI MBOL AND AUHOER

r CONTINUATION OF |
telly Po secrer | ayy

8. Ads Wo provided the KDAFGHANS with
new passpor continued Within the programmed
amount,

9. As mentioned above we will be tavestivating the

‘Subject of Reference C during this period, When this is accom-
plished we will begin a CI exercise based on a piece of fiisinfor-
mation tailored -to make the AMFINKS take overt And verifiable
action, | In. the ‘meantinie ¥e,will continue our search for a new OP
Sito.: Qu FORTAW's' arrival he will’ start looking for a new OP team,
When recriiited, ‘this team will be given the task ot finding“ tnetr
pun Sttevand we will cease our“activities along this line. We wilt
keep the KDAFGHANS on until-the new team is tn Place and the new
OP operating: fhe end of this-calendar year we are unable
to locate a new site "we will terminate the KDAFGHANS, let the

ttgite cool-offfor’a while and then place the new team in
The costs of terminating these two agents will :
Wonged Six ‘thousand dollars.” we expect them to resettle in either
WOCORK with the vest of their family or in Spain where they have
Property. We foresee no problems in the termination.

10. Headquarters Action Required:

Please try again to locate HMBMW-13665 of 7 June 1965
(File # 50-8=2/2-1), :

b. Please review 201-012972 for any other possible
information of the Subject of Reference -c,

DL dire

sse KR. GAYRDALPHE
pie

“TY BRaE HS.

“CURSEIFICATION —

Se" 58a use previous eoition ! SECRET

catrmues | 3 of 3



Lurie [Ef a=

at. ROUHNG ANO-OM WeALS-SEEN BY
cacuer

SECRET 05j816Z FEB 72 CITE MEXICO CITY 18887

Director ivFo[__] : 3Feu ¥ 529170
Cc

PBRUMEN KDAFGHAN SGSWIRL

REFS: A. HAMMA-414990, IL JANUARY 1972
B. DIRECTOR 228192

1. KDAFGHAN-1 SG SWIRLED 1 FEBRUARY 1972 WITH NO
APPARENT SIGNS OF DECEPTION. CORRESPONDENCE WITH
RELATIVES IN PBRUMEN BY LETTER, TELEGRAM AND PHONE
ADMITTED (SUBJECT APPARENTLY SAW NOTHING WRONG IN THIS"
AND WAS NOT TAKEN T0-TASK FOR IT AT THIS POINT). ALL
SUCH CORRESPONDENCE HAS BEEN MADE USING THEIR TRUE STREET
ADDRESS, PHONE NUMBER AND NAMES AS RETURN ADDRESS/CALLING
PARTY. OST, OF CORRESPONDENCE CARRIED OUT BY KDAFGHAN-2.
AND USUALLY RESTRICTED TO FAMILY EVENTS AND KOLIDAYS.

2. WHILE IT PRELIMINARY OPINION OF SGSWIRL OPERATOR
THAT IF AtiSTAFF ON TO SUBJECTS, KDAFGHAN-1 COMPLETELY
UNWITTING OF IT, We 4R& PROCEEDING ON ASSUMPTION THAT ‘
PARA 1 CORRESPONDENCE AND/OR WEIGHBORHKOOD INVESTIGATION
BY AiiFINK has! LED, OR WILL SOON LEAD TO, ANSTAFF DISCOVERY
OF THIS OPERATION, THEREFORE, WE PLAN TO BEGIN ScARCH. FOR

SECRET


CLASyiFIED! Mey:

SECRET
(When Filled Int

ROUTING A4D'On WAAHIALSSLEN BY

ReToRRS.

PAGE 2 NEXICO CITY 18867 SECRET
REPLACEMENT SITE AND PERSONNEL.

3. KDAFGHAN-1 WILL PROVIDE NAMES AND

REQUESTED REF B AT NEXT MEETING.

4. FILE: 50-6-122/35 201-288248 AND 201-3u5604, GP-1
SECRET !

SECRET Yu



L DISeaTCH

W Hemisphs we Dis

Chief, Weste

fow.r quaurny aese
Has su36e wooNS

Chief of Station, Mexico City | eerie

rr)
-€) Liaison Knowledge of tie KDAFGHAN Operation

Corny aMis

Referenc: HMMW-18660, 20 October 1971

As a result of the Warren Commission proceedings, Liaison
(and the rest of the world) know that JKLANCE has photographic
coverage of the Cuban Mission, However, te the best of our
knowledge, no one: knows where it is or who does it. This is
confirmed by KDAFGHAN photos showing Cubans, and others, shaking
their fists at a house which is not the KDAFG site, In our
request to Liaison to remove the offending traffic sign, Nead-
quarters may be assured that we did not tell Liaison the true
veason for our request. They were told that it sonetiues
interfered with physical surveillance. Liaison in turn gave
the same request to t appropriate contact in the traffic
police, using the cxplanation that ¢! veillance team
wante? tne cign removed.

LK fa
GARDALPHE

BA

f Jesse &,

- Chicf, WED

“8 COFY

DIGPAIOH STINBOL AO rsaE®
IMMA - 41240



| BISPATCH |

gl

SECRET

Chief of Station, rae City

i
I a
i

Chief, Westera Heaispbere Division

Liaison Knowledge of the SDAFGHAN Operation
icin eecortto = ree

REFERENCE:

HAQU-41087,° 29 Sentember 1971

We noted in Reference your plan to initiate an operation
through liaison to rezove the sign that has obstructed the

view from KPAFGHAN, “Béaéquarters was under the impression
"that KDAFGEAN

18 not knewn to liaison. If this is not the
case, please provide us with full details on lisison's

knowledgeability concernisg this operation.

Kurt D. CUPFENDER

Distributics: Orig. & 2 - COS, Mexico City

ess RRA TO roma Sao aa foare

SEMW-18660 iz
= “GASTON a a TE
15 October 1971 SECRET 50-6~122/3
7 _OGTTNG
\ i :
tribution: a
CooReTaaTTG
oat orinie sae
; i
RELEASING

18" $3. usc enevous exeon



“2.

—————————

DIseAG | = =

Chief, Western item{sphere Division _

lore QuaLiuD ore
[cw s00ct mOLING

Chief of Station,

Chief of Station, Mexico City T fein
iN
fe ress Report for Pert
Comrie

References: A,» HMMA-11087, 29 September 1971

i MEXICO CITY 18336, 24 November 1971
Cc.) HN. 1240, 5 November 1971

D, HMMW-18065, 24 August 1970

E, MEXICO CITY-18654, 7 January 1972

Action Required: Paragraph 9

1. Summary: Information camo to light during this portod
which causes “the Station to belicve that KDAFGHAN may be under
the control’ of, or known to, AMSTAFF. ‘fhe Station mounted an
operation ‘to determine if this is true, but was unable to comploto
it. Our efforts continue, | Details are given below. Production
quality and the percentage Of identifications increased. Costs
vemained within the allowed amounts,

2. Security: “As Headquarters is aware, TYPIC operations at
this StatIoa have been unproductive since early 1968, Consequently,
the COS, the DCOS and, more lately, the TYPIC Chief, have begun to
plani_and work TYPIC operations on the assumption that AMSTAFF is on
to us, AN incident in the KDAFGHAN operation in the past quarter
tends to add woight to our hypothesis. In submitting his Novembor
accounting KDAFGHAN-1 inadvertently included a bill for a loug-

r distance call to PBRUMEN (Referenée’ B)., While this in-itself is

not cnough to convict KDAFGHAN-1 (or KDAFGHAN-2, there ts no
indication on the bill as to which one of them made the call), it

is enough to show extreme indiscretion on his part. This prompted

the Station td make a complete review of the case and to plan a CI
operation designed to show whether or not KDAFGHAN-1 and or KDAFGHAN-2
[7 was undor control of; or being monitored by, AMSTAFF. © The results

aré as follows: ~

Continued. ......eee

Distribution:

Vorig. & 2°- chiet
1 - cos, role

i HMMA - 41490 -.
a — LE eaETiN

SECRET- “$0-6-122/3

[ee
| 41 January 1972
iar wa wa



San NUATGACOE Sse {SENSES ASD NRT
DISPATCH ' SECRE ! HMMA ~

aad gaSHAnIaapnaAnangasgOSRAWANARESGEGIOR! BS

alaga

Ro Th showed:

a, The agent was originally a walk-in to the former
JKLANCE Station in Havana, . He was later referred
to this Station, This in itself 4s enough to make
: him suspect

b. He still has close relatives’ in PBRUNEN and corre=
He spouds witli these relatives by lotter - and probably
by telephoie. Four of these relatives are the sisters
Of KDAFGUAN-2-and the threat of pressure on these
‘: would-probably be enough to make her subject to
SAMSTAFF control. Assuming that ANQUAKE controls all
mail and telephone calls to PBRUMEN, they would seon
come across the fact that KDAFGHAN-1 and 2 live
directly across the street from ANFINK. At the last
meeting with KDAFGHAN-1 he mentioned that they were
still corresponding with some twenty relatives in
PBRUMEN and they with him. This increases the odds
that AMQUAKE has uncovered them. We have no idea how
long this correspondence has been going on but assume
that it has been long enough to have been uncovered.

Since tho incident mentioned in Reference C, we can
further ..assume that AMQUAKE has made some, if not a
determined, effort to locate the KDAFGHAN site. | This
is confirmed by our recent discovery Chat AMFINK has
been paying the rent on a vacant apartment directly
across from their entrance for the past two years.
This is a building formerly occupied by KDAFGIAN-1
and 2, Only within the last two weeks an AMFINK
employee moved into this site, It would also be
relatively casy for ANFINK to check all possible OP
sites. If they did, and encountered a PBRUMEN exile
with family still within PBRUMEN, wo are afraid that
the conclusion is solf-evident. On this particular
point we are now particularly struck by KDAFGHAN-1's
repeated and uisolicited assurances that AMFINK has

no idea wheru the KDAFGHAN site is located. Ic’ has
backed up this claim with photos of various AMFINK
employees and visiters shaking their fists at the
former site. Hindsight now leads us also to conclude
that it would be a very easy matter to investigate

and determine who had moved out of the former site and
where they now were. If this has been done, KDAFGHAN-1
would stick out like the! proverbial sore thumb, We
now conclude that Reference D was, unfortunately,

only too correct,

d. While it Has always been’ the practice of the Station
to sterilize all photographs, given LNERGO or shown
to assets (including KDAFGHAN photos), there is still
® possibility that inisuse of KDAFGHAN photographs by
either JKLANCE or LNERGO over the years may have also
been a contributing factor. We note that they were
shown to KDTUCK--+ on various occasions in the ‘past and
that-he has been recently terminated because of our

doubts about him,

Continued. ........

se 7 “SEAS FIGATIGN

53a use Parvicus EDITION. i SECRET



2

4 SOARS T DI EAE BV OST ARS FOTO
. CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH

SECRET

©. The simple length of time Chat. this agent has been
he in operation could also be considered as a possible
factor in exposing him sooner or later? We also
eae note in passing that his homs telephone line shares
the same pole distribution box as that of the AMFINK
consulate,

One .item that. becomos evident when reviewing KDAFGHAN
files is his repeated failure (with some few 7
“yvexceptloas) .to get photographs of suspects or agents
that the Station Knows visited AMFINK while he was
purportedly on wat

A: ,Givem.thé above the’ Station decided to mount an operation
designed sto determine once. aid for all if tho KDAFGHANS wove
cither under ‘control by. AMSTAFF or If their activitics were being
“monitored by: audio coverage of the Safchouse or OP site. The
COS designed a sophisticated sconario to be played out by the
| Case Officer which would, one by one, eliminate or prove each of
ae a the above possibilities. vo other Station assots were used, this
- - to eliminate any possibility that they might be the source of a
leak. | Without going into a mass of details, the plan basically
involved letting cnough information slip bit by bit to KDAFGHAN-1
is so that he,“ov some ANSTAFF Case Officer on the other end, would
graw the watited conclusion;. nauely, that 201-327262 was worklag
: for us, Unfortunately, just ay we Kot into the preliminary stages
i of the plan, 201+327262 was'vecalled. It is our opinion that the
o operation had not yet gone far enough to consider this xecall as
‘ proof of our suspicions, but that it was more coincidence, How-
ve ever, two points that arose during this oporation do bother us.
‘ At onc. mecting KDAYGHAN-1 mentioned (or let slip) that the AMPINK
ielssteseea chauffeur had gone on vacation. While the Station was aware of
ae this ‘we are hard put to understand how ho knew it, ‘Then, during
ie the: same conversation with the Case Officer (perhaps realizing
| his mistake?) KDAFGHAN-1 began to backtrack and started to talk

about how he "thought" the chauffeur, "might have" gone on vacation.
The second point ts that he almost invariably veports within a

few days when an AMFINK employee drops out of sight, He has yet

; to mention the departure of 201-327262, This attempt by the

te Station to resolve the matter having come to an inconclusivo end,

i we ave “Starting over again and will soon begin another similar
operation.

5. Plans: we are working undex the assumption that AMQUAKE/
AMSTAFF either looked for and found KDAFGHAN-1 or that they found
him through checking out s mail and calls to and from relatives
i in PBRUMEN. We are further assuming that they then either doubled
i him or KDAFGHAN-2 ‘or that they are successfully monitoring the
| operation through a combination. of physical and audio surveillance
'

i
i
'

\ (we uote the fairly recent arrival of an AMFINK referred to as
vel tecnico" ~ 201-886735-- whom we believe to be the younyer

t brother of 201-812106. The latter, our records show, was last

i known to be the chief of the JKLANCE section of AMSTAFF.) While
KDARGHAN-1, and KDAFGHAN-2, will obviously have to-be terminated,
we first intend to do our best to prove our hypothesis, If this
can be done, we may be able to put this to our advantage. In the’
meantime, he will be handled under the strictest of compartmen-
tation, He will be given no further lookout assignments, be siveKy/
no indications of our particular interests in any individual
AMPINKS ov their activities and, obviously, we will not proceed
with the plans for the audio operation which we suggested in

t Continued......,

i ies ECABEIFICATION™
‘ Smt! 83a use enevious eomioy. | SECRET



CONTINUATION OF
CISPATCH:

i
L

paragraphs 14-16 of Reference a.
veplacement site
they bel Leve~tne-conty ots eo
(US Statron~per EIST We. Li tena “vo continue t,
the agent just as before, indicating our greatest confidence in
him, We will proceed to imprave his equipment and. operation and.
go Ahead with the planned technical consultation (Reference £)

~ fo demonstrate this. No sensitive equipment ov information will
be'ihvolved. We further intend to SGSWIRL this agent at the first
opportunity. lic was last SWIRLED on 18 April 1967.

The ood thee Overational Developrionts: Other than the above,
the operation continued asvusual. The Case Officer had another
dawn to midnight stay with the Agent to observe ANFINK and its
activities and “to work with the Agent on impvoving -his production,
Quality of thé photographs has improved: and identification of .the
PBRUMEN-visitors has, with the use of KDGLACIER Passport photos
increased drastically -.we are now hitting over eighty percent
vAdentitication of TD¥ers and transit personnel. The planned mo
Studies mentioned in paragraph 12 of Reference A have not been’ as
Successful as was hoped for. KDAFGHAN-1 and 2 are so set in the
routine they have established over the ycars that the above
mentioned instructions to change their way of operation have met
with vesistance. This is being overcomo. The one outstanding
cyent of the period was our obtaining a photo of SYCEMENT-G's
alternate courier (to which KDAFGHAN-1 had Rot been alerted).

7. Agent Personnel: No changes. The break in their regular
routine occasioned by our requests for more work on their part
and by the extra and irregularly scheduled meetings caused by
our CI operation seemed to. have increased KDAFGHAN-1's already
bad stute of nerves. Tne Case Officer sent him-on a three day
vacation to Acapulco to calm him down - and it did somewhat.

8. Admioistrative/rinances: No changes.

n Required

Sa. Advise if Headquarters concurs with the Station as

j to the desirability of continuing with this type éf'
operation after the projected termination of the

| KDAFGHANS. ;

b. Please pass this dispatch to the JMROD unit. Their
Suggestions are solicited,

e, Please retrace all known relatives of KDAFGHAN-1
and 2 and advise the Station of the results,

CPSs R. GARDALPHE

CLASSI RATEN

vac reoous remo pata eetied Hight ete ee



DISPATCH [totes
unict of tation Mexico City

of station _____

chiet

ACTION Paragraph § MAR 2.21972

REFERENCES: © A, MEXICO CITY 18887- MicRGFI
B. DIRECTOR 228192 j care
C.  HFMA $1590, -11 January 1972 H

1. As a result of the disturbing information contained in
Reforenco C, we undertook a reasonably thorough review'of the CI
aspects. of. this project as contaiaed'in Headquarters files. We
came up With no new insights into the security problem outlined
in Reference C that are not already known to the Station. We
commend the Station for its thorough CI review of this project
and the positive efforts being taken to improve its’ security, y
While the positive results of KDAFGHAN-1's SGSHIRL {per ial

d

A) suggests that he is probably not actively cooperating with
ANSTAFF against BKTRUST, his PBRUMEN oxile status, the long perio
of time he has’ been operating his OP site in close proximity to
the PbRUMEN Enbassy and the potential (perhaps immediate) danger
presented by his and KDAFGIIAN-2's PBRUMLN relatives, make it clear !
that this tear must oventually be phased out, whether or not

replacements can be recruited. we defor to tho Station concerning
how bost to implement this termination and strongly concur with
the Station's attempts to prevent KDAFGHAN-1 and 2 from reaching
the conclusion that they are no longer trusted by RKTRUST, As. the
Station has indicated, an overlap between the new and old OP sites
is highly desirable. Presumably, the Station will continue its
‘efforts to determino whether or not KDAFGHAN*1 has been "doubled"
or is being monitored by ANSTAFF (the latter appears more likely,
if AMSTAFP is indeed on to the KDAFGHANS).

CONTINUED. . .

DISTRIBUTION: |
Orig § 1 - COS, Mexico City H
2 - cos; : |

see Conn rcrs oe ma

~ 20 AX. HMMW_ 18913 i
sae a CATION " [eee minSnsehan, | #
2 LessoY SECRET 7 7
eer | Z TRENATEE
a Tw
Distribution: val nm_(yped 6 March 72) | 6954
1 - WH/L COOROINATING.
1 - WH/COG Sr9300 att OFFICER'S NAME
1 - IP/Files

i
Beef
HLCOG,
|
He
i

SINE sre Toate T

coms | Bs-9g |

B eae 7 ’ il DISPATCH

ETRE ES RE Tee oP eeceseierrc:



Fons
eee Sa
fd so

DISPATCH : SECRET

1
i
! the thought which has
H to why KDAFGHAN-1, an educated and reportedly intelligent
| { individual, has been willing to devote the last ten years
| to this dull and very routine effort. It is cifricalt to
H draw. 2. Conpletely satisfying answer to this question from
I the files, The security aspects aside, the Station is
| probably doing KDAFGHAN-1 a favor, in terms of his mental
health, by forcing hi:
insular world and séek a now fora of employment. The
frequent references to KDAFGHAN-1's pent up nervousness
contained. in the Station's re orting indicates that
KDAFGIIAN- 1's obsession with his work may finally be catch-
- dng up with him. +]
i
|
|
t
!
i

- dng the over-all value of this activity as presently consti-
tuted, given the priority need for coverage of the ANSTAFE

dearth of PBRUMEN target access agents, we believe that -this
- activity should be continucd. We share the Station's concern
about our inability te identify the photographs of non-
PBRUMEN personnel who visit the Embassy or Consulate, but
appreciate the difficult technical problens involved. On a
More posttive note, the recent group of photographs of
PBRUMEN Embassy staffers forwarded to Headquarters for review
by AMBEDEW-1 and ANWIEN;1 (the latter has not yet been
| ‘completed) were of high quality. As a result of the high
quality of these photographs, AVREDEW-1 was able to identity
H still another AMSTAFFer assigned to the Embassy. We assume
} from the contents of Reference C that when and if a new OP i
i site team has been recruited and a new site obtained, further
; efforts will be made by the Station to increase the identifi-
cation of. visitors to the PBRUMEN installation concerned,
Meanwhile, the high rate of identification of PBRUMEN visitors
i to. the Embassy currently being
to your determined efforts to obtain the maximum "take" from

H this operation,

to continue this operation and to improve the identification
of non-PBRUMEN visitors to the PRRUMEN Embassy. We concur
with ‘the Station's plans to terminate KDAFGHAN-1 and 2 at an
appropriate time after a new OP site team has been recruited
and trained and a new OP site obtained. Per Reference B, we
will trace KDAFGIHAN-1 and 2's relatives residing in PBRUMEN
once their names and addresses have been forwarded by the
Station. We discussed this operation with the JMROD unit and
! it was decided that KDAFGHAN-1 and 2 are not suitable for
JMROD purposes.

SST SO

HIUATION OF
fOviIN 18915 |

2. While ‘reviewing this activity, we were struck by
urred. to others in the past, .as

to look outside his small and

“3. While we are more than a little ambivalent concern-

achieved by the Station testifies

4. In conclusion, we concur with the Station's plans

5S. Action Requested: Paragraph 4 above.

Grover E, CAITHAMER i

peice © cxassincation

USE PREVIOUS EOITION.



[DISPATCH [nnn

tern Hemispt

hiel, We © Diviston

1 WOACRE

uw

Chief of Station, | Mexico City

1 guly ~ 30 september 1971

sn
KDAFGHAN Progress. Report
ACTON RiQuiRS Tee ere nate
Action Required: Paragraph 16 (WOACRE )

Daring the reporting period this Project coutinued
KDAFGHANS continued to provide the Station with
Sto the Cuban Babassy.. A new case
otftcer took over’ the Project at the be: doning of the period and has
spent the major part of his meetings with KDAF land 2 on @
cussing and plauniay ways to improve the percentage of identifleatios
made by them. What follows is a descriptton of the Operation as it
now stands and the Station's plans to improve it, =

“L. SUMMARY:
with no change. 4
pholuxvaphic coverage of visito}

xe of the entrance
200 to 1800 fthe

s pvevent further

sent equipmont.) hours are 0800-
2100, approximately. KDAFGHAN-L provides the majority of the wag<
power, with KDAFGHAN=2 filling in for t breaks, lauich and while
KDAFGHAN-1 processes the previous day's take. The general practice
is to observe the er vance witout optical assistance until‘a person
or vehicle is seen to be entoring or leaving the gate area, The
vestricted size of the aperture possible in tho OP for this viewing
(a rectangular opening approximately four by five inches) prevents
simultaneous viewkng of any other area of the coxpoun?, When a
tarvet is seen, the observer shifts his head a few inches to the
reflex. finder of the camera and is given a 20 X magnification of
the: target. nis is more than adequate tor identification of any
target. If the target is unknown and/or a previous photograph has
not been taken, the obser ver takes one. At the same time he records
the time of ar vival /departure, whether. the target is known or
unknown, aud records any obvious identifying data such as license
plate, apparent nationality, apparent oceupation, etc, In addition

2. P
to tie Cuban kmbassy
approximate hour at wii
photography with the pr

Continued. .....,

Attachments:
A - as stated h/w
i ~ as stated u/s/e —

Distribution:

NOrig. & 2- Chief, WHD (watts. A and Bh/w % use)
1 - Chief, WOACRE (w/o/atus.) ~~ + 7

eit)

TMBOL AnD musi

A = 41087

tn

Thong eotaINCE TS

7 HMM.

| - SECRET

50-68-1223



arcerre

SECRET 1 IMMA = ATO87

to the above general visual surveillance, the agents are
occastonally provided with photographs of targets the: Scatron
believes might visit the! compound and on whom we wish a specific
alert - st Ss visiting agent personnel and third country
ibversTOCS known Or believed té-be in the area, Each day,
-RDAFGHAN-1 pxocesses his notes and the photographs taken and
‘submits them tothe Station in the following form (one day's
production-is illustratediin Attachment a):

a. A timetable of arrivals ‘and departures (the number
in the Ieft margin indicates that a photograph was

taken) «

b. The. original negative. The daily average seems to
be about cightcen photographs.

A contact print of the above negatives (the inked
numbers on the photographs correspond to the
marginal; numbers of the report),

d. Enlargements of selected subjects. (not included).

3. THE A GARDALPHE spent one day, from
0845 to 1900, , observing the agents and their
Youtine,. Both seem to have adapted to a very boring routine
quite well. Their eyesight, which has been the subject of quite
a féw off-the-record comments at both Headquarters and at the
Station (viz, that they are blind), was checked out thoroughly,
but innocuously, by asking them who such and such a person was
at the gate or in photos and by asking them to read some very
suwll print film-processing instructions, While KDAFGHAN-2's
eyesight is definitely poorér than that of KDAFGIAN-1, she casily
identified the subjects and was able to read the test literature
with no problem, She was observed carefully while manning the
OP and she missed no one in that one and one-half how period,
Previous cases of missing known targets sclreduled to visit the
Enbassy are more probably the restlt of boredom and a resultant
jack of attention. Their job requires them to be hermits, They
have very few friends and even féwer visitors. To break them out
of this rut, the Station will soon start altering their work
hours to ‘provide move extended coverage of the target, and give
them more interesting work to do. '

4. SENT KDAFGUAN FACILITIES AND EQUIPMENT: The present
OP is lo on the roof of a three-story apartment house

located about eighty yards from the compound entrance (see
Attachment B), Concealment is excellent. Windows on other
floors allow visual observation of most of the compound facing
the OP and of the entrance to the Consulate. lowever, they do
not permit photography, except on x selected basis, because of
the concealment problem. The UP proper is a small bathroom

about five by six fect in what used to be-the maid's quarters.

A captain's chair, the tripod, canieva, lens and a small worktable
have been fitted in between the various plumbing figtures.
Adjacent to this is another room of approximately twice the size
which contains a desk, cot, the printer and‘a wardrobe for
storing photographic materials. This room aas a large picture
wiadow overlooking the entrance to the Consulate.

Continued. .

™

SECRET ph ferret

“Trace nS.
2of 6

a CLASSIFICATION

ESS PREVIOUS EDITION.



CONTINUATION OF i
i}

DISPATCH

bia = 41087

5. The photoy:
present consists of a Ba
eyepiece, and a Pentax Ib

aphic equipsent used-by the KDAFGHANS at
Shand Lomb s, with 20-X
mera, Thi not
atistactory (See below). cept for the printer, all darkroom
equipuent 4s, Tocated in a darkroom on the first Cloor. The
darkroom ts well cquipped and adequate. KDAF! “Lt makes no
attempt to conceal. the. darkroom, His cover for the darkroom is
that it is his hobby. -

G.  STATIONSPROCESSING OF THE NDAFGHAN PRODUCTION: | Time-
tables are Ifed and d- “the Station
is looking for confirmation of an acent report or a ‘surveillance
report, they are sometimes consulted... About every year they are
shipped ‘to Neadquarters for retention in the Archives. The
negatives and contact prints ave handled in the same way!

> T,- The enlarged, photographs are processed in the following
way:
a. Certain photographs of unidentified persons are
sterilized and forwarded to the local office of

LNERGO. The Station receives no feedback or
identification of these individuals from LNERGO.

b. Photographs of PCS or Known TDY Eabassy personnel
are kept and used for identification purposes at
the Station and some are forwarded to Headquarters

Tor the same reason,

Photographs of other identified persons are placed
in Station personality files.

a, 411 other photographs (the major portion) are simply
destroyed. y

8. LNERGO was recently queried on the value of this
operation to them. They replied, "(these photographs) are
compared with the photographs of known leaders of extremist
groups in WOCORK as well as with photographs of persons who are
Subjects of Identification Ovders prepared on badly wanted
fugitives in WOCORK. It is requested, therefore, that you
continue this service if i¢ does not cause problems or unusual
costs to your office." While this projoct may be of some value
to LNERGO, it is of iseele value. as presently constituted, to
the Station. TTHeYG"are other, and cheaper, means of obtaining
photographs of PCS and TDY personnel. No identification or
operational use is made of the photographs of the unidentified
subjects - at least by JKLANCE ~ and no operational use is made
of the timetable. ‘For instance, licénse plate numbers are not
now traced aS either a possible means of identification, or
leads to CI or recruitment targets. . A previo !
analyzing the timetable for possible patterns of activity was
unproductive and has not been repeated. Only in selected
instances do.we try to correlate the information received from
KDBADGER coverage of the Embassy and that provided by the
KDAFGHANS, But generally this has not been successful, since
most often people with previous appointments are going to the
Consulate (which we do not cover with XDAFGHAN), or too many
unidentified people arrive around thé same time at the gate,
precluding a positive identification. While the above evaluation

Continued. ...

= aoe PRAGENO.

ierereneests T CLARET EATION
i 3 of 6

ontinuen |
i

SECRET



seit.

aN erabaT ah MaMa

we

Fon

CONTINUATION OF

dies’ 53a use previous corrion. i

iM = A L087

DISPATCH

3 projec! terminstion request than a progress
the Station does believe that this preject could be made
etive if not extremely valuable to both JKLANCE and “LNERGO
ces could be related to names and other operational leads
inherent in the KDAFGHAN production were abstracted and followed
out. Our plans to do sore outlined below.

9. PLA Technical quality needs to ve. improved, Tho
présent enlargements are only poor to f. in quality, ‘This te
due'to the lens now in use, which only has an effective! aperture
of. f£-22. ‘The Station WOACRE officer will soon init ato. corre-
spondeéuce..to.obtaina better lens_which will not on. in
higher .quality.‘photds, but extended coveraze in conditions of

“darkness of twilight by. increasing the light-xathering dapability
of the camera. A camera with a behind the lens light moter will
be used from now on to prevent underexposures in poor Light
conditions. “The présent enlarger lens has a fungus growth which
lowers photographic quality, This will be repaired or replaced.

10, Since the move to this OP,-a street sign in the line
of sight to the target area obstructs or spoils over half of the
photographs, This prevents the Station fvon using the photo-
graphs with, agent personne!-or contacts who might be able to
identify the subject of. the photograph. . For, unless heavily
sterilized, it provides a very casy means of identifying! where
the photograph was taken, and conceivably, by using a theodilite,
determining the exact. location of the OP, An operation, | through
liaison, to remove this obstruction has been initiated. | i]

sand in-

We. Identification of PCS personnel, out-bound TDY

Ftransit passengers can easily be raised to near one-hundred

| percent, The Station will arvange for our current KDGLACIER
[passport coverage to be passed on a routine basis to KDAFGHAN
fand, using these, he should be able to identity all of the
subjects that fall in the above category, He will also ‘be
instructed to start a photo file on all TDY and in-transit
|porsonnel and, as he builds this base up, he should be able to
‘identify mre and-more of the in-bound in-transit personuel,
Consideration is also being given to have him develop and process
these passport photos for both himself and the Station, (This
would not only speed up identification of thése subjects - and
the exploitation"of possible ops leads - but. relieve the’ Station
Technician and Support Section of some of their work load,

12, The exploitation of potential operational leads; through
the-compilation of data on license plates, servicemen, known
visitors and arrival and departure times, has previously’ been
tried by the Station on a sporadic basis with ne success.) This
is primarily due to the fact that the workload involved -on
Station personnel has prevented a continuing effort. Since
KDAFGNAN~L and are underworked (and would probably welcome
some change in their incredibly boring routine), this job(will
be given to them. ‘They will be required to suvmit monthly

reports on: ,

: |
a, All vehicles that call at the compound (frequency

figures), i

b. All service calls.

AL1 visitors and or servicemen who get inside the
compound .
~ | Continued.

a ee

SECRET



CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH rat

ad. ALL visitors and or servicemen who get inside the
gate, 1

e. Compiled statistics on the et and departure
time (and method) -of each known or suspect intelli-

gence officer,

This should considerably improve the station's ability to exploit
- any leads that might arise, at a

13. The one problem area remaining, and the ‘one whére we
stand to strike the most "pay-dirt” is that. of identitying the
photographs: of non=Cuban personnel who visit the Embassy or the
Consulate. "While, true, we are unlikely to identify any Dor
agent personnel or “illegals, we would be most likely to obtain
identification “of subversives traveling to Cuba and on local
sympathizers or contacts who could possibly serve as access
dxents. “Linking unknown facés ‘to names can only be done by
technical means. The target situation and our Proposed means
of attack are given below. :

14. Since the arrival of the new Dat Chief of Center and
the DSE security officer last year, socurity at the cuban Embassy
and Consulate has tightens stically. “Metal shutters have
Boon orate has but one of the windows in the area suspected
of being the pGt center, Not even a crack of light now stiows
from. these windows at night. The entire compound and the sur-
Founding wall have been floodiighted. In KDAFGHAN's words, "the
only shadows in the place now are during the daytime’ ‘tho
former open grill gate to the autowobile entrance has been, re~
placed by an electrically operated solid metal garage door,
Passerbys can no longer look into the compound. or gatchouse and
KDAFGHAN can no longer observe the latter. The door inte the
gatehouse, which is in the outer wall alongside the autonobiio
entrance, flas bee changed to a heavy metal door with a one-way
mirvor for observation, No vehicles except those belonging to
tho Embassy are now allowed inside. All delivery trucke must
park outside and carry thelivitems inside. comp ly_new,
and unknown, telephone system has been installed. Access control
is now rigorous. When a visitor now calls at the Embassy he
must ring the doorbell, wait for the door to be opened Slightly,
and, if he is not recognized, announce his name and business.
The door is then shut in his face, the gatekeeper calls the
person he wants to See and the person is then either let in'or
turned away. If let in he no longer is allowed i
jO-+ Compound - with Some Tow rar eptto
aul? Tovmer gatehouse which has just been cone eception

aveg- “The person he cane to mes CO the Teeeptxwoiy” area

and interviews him there. Very rarely is the visitor let into

the compound. If the visitor calls at the Consulate he may

freely enter that one room on the ground floor, but is allowed
no further. Usually the secretary handles all’ requests, Some
times a visitor to the Consulate who requires an interview with
one of the consuls is taken or sent to the Embassy entrance |
~@ [fev interviewed in that area. our chances of, implanting an audio
.

device inside the Embassy, the Consulate, or the gatchouse with
our current assets and under these conditions is nill.
I
15. There are Seven telephone lines into the Cuban
compound, vg. of these go directly to the Ambassador's office,
the Cultural Office, the Press Office, the Commercial Office |
and the Consulate. As far-as we know, the DG center has no:

~ Continued

ee
oye" 5da use
ee. 53a use pnevious corrion, :
at SECRE



“which, in turn, could béexploited by other Station assets,

WEATION

CONTINUATION OF
OISPATCH

—

SECRET

direct lines. Two Lines 0 to
inthe gatehouse, eptTon 3 ) average
of two thousand calls each per month, — Many times, in reading
the take, we note that a person will-cal] and say that he is
coming by at a certain time - or ho will be valled and told to
Teen ated Certain time. ff KDAFGIAN could corelate these calls
“with the photographs he. takes he could make many identifications

KOSLACIER, or, LNERGO, Even of. more assistance would bo ty
miking" of these lines.’ That.way we could not only identify auy
caller to ‘the Consulate or gatehouse, but also who the gatekeeper

* ¢alls: inside “to- announce the visttor. In addition, we would also

expect to pick up quite a bit of conversation of interest, for the
“watcholse seems to be a favorite hangout in the Embassy for DGI
Personnel. KDAFGHANS 1 and 2, being experienced LP operators,
could casily handle the. take’: KDAFGHAN-1, being fluent in English,
could also. handle the English? language portions of any take ~

‘Which in view of ‘the ‘number of Haglish-speaking visitors would
probably be considerable.

1G. Therefore, wo request that we he advised what technical
information is necessary for WOACRE to determine the feasibility
of a hot mike installation into tho gatehouse and Consulato
(assuming no access to the instruments) serviced by an LP located
inthe” cus'Fent “KDAFGIAN OP. nthe meantime, we will investigate
the possibility of tapping.one of the gatohouse telephones
Curvently monitored by KDBAUGER and running it into the KDAPGHAN
OP where tt will not only be transcribed but live monitored.

Production figures for this poriod were
i provided an average of 600 contact prints and
150 enlargemen x month.” No new identifications were made,

18. ADMINISTRATIVE: ‘there were no changes in costs or
personnel during this period,

19. SECURITY: There were no security incidents during this
period, To improve security, mectings have been reduced to an
Toon awe OF one every two weeks. Use of the safchouse is now held
fo, minimum and wherever. possible meetings are by car pickup.
While KDAFGHAN-1's cover for his darkroom is that it is supposedly
his hobby, there is not one photograph or camera visible anywhere
in his house. He has been instructed to correct this deficiency.

PS

Form
sca 53a
ry

| BREEN

ecaBaiFeATION T T;

Use Previous eortton SECRET = SO ome [8 of 6

So-b -122/3



Fhoto # Hour

_ B10
11

12
13-15

9302

9402,

9303:
9:06
9:08
9314
9:19
92:19
9120
9233
9352
9:52
9357
9:58
10:02
10:09
10:27
10230
10:36
10:46
10:48
10:53
12:14
11:17
11:30
11:31
11:44
11:48
12:07
12:15
12:22
12:23
12:34

July 1st., 1971
Coverage: 9:00 to 18:00

View

Green Ford arrived with Angel & wife - thye left at 1:55
White Vwe-PSA left with Abelardo - he ret. at 9:08 with Saker
Waiquiria arrived :
New car arrived with Mirabal - he left at 12:37

Jesus arrived in a taxi :

Green Torino arrived with Cortina

White Vw PSA left with Abelardo ~ ret. 9:38

Green Ford left with Orestes ~ ret. al0:32

Aurora left in a taxi - ret. at 1135 - left at 2:26

Black Pord left with Sosa = ret, 10:36 - left 11:18 - ret. 11:52
White Vw arrived rith Heriberto - left 1:10 ~ ret. at 5:12.

Mm coing in - Aterican? ~ left at 10:08
ith Masvidal & Rolando Rodriguez = ret. 11119

Green Torine left

Man leaving - ret. at 11:27
Grey Pontiac left with Sanchez ~ret/11:2@-leftl2:15 - ret. 12345

White Vw PSA left with Ahelardo & Heriberto = ret. 12:02, (Abelardo)
‘an sent to the Consulate

Blue Torino arrived with Barrera & a man :

Lady who came in creen Vw No. JEY-S8 —brought packages ~ often

Blue Torino left with Capote & Kendez - ret. at 12:02 :

Man going in : 4
2 ladies & a man going in - left at 11:06

White Vw left with Heriberto & Consuelo ~ he ret, 12:42

Young man bringing movie films

2 men leaving with Ignacio Acosta

Green Torino left with Reyes & wonan = ret, atliss

Lady sent to the Consulate

Tomas Rodriguez arrived = left at 12726

Mm who ‘came in car plate No. R J H ~ delivered envelope

2 men &a lady Reaving |

White. Vw PSA lest *ith Abelardo — ret. at 1357

Green. Ford lef: with Capo, Jesus & Rolando Rodriguez ~ ret. 1:45
Black Ford left with Ambassador, Arnenteros & Sosa

ou ty so" b a/y



- 26 '
: July let., 1971 |.
16 12:53 Man at the door: ‘i
12:53 Blue Pord arrived with Valdes
7 12:53 Man leaving ‘
1s 12:55 Man going in : \
19 1:00 Man sent to the Consuh te ‘

= “4115 . Tomas Alvarez drove car in - left at 1146
20621 1:25 Men going in - left at 1:42
‘22923 2:55 Rolando Rodriguez

24 2:14. Mrs. Cor tina. or Mrs. Reyes?

3:19 2"men who came for Masvidal in a Yellow car plate No. HXB-37
j

2:19 Grey Pontiac left with Capo & Sanchez - ret. at 5:12 i
2:21 Blue Ford left with Valdes, wt fe & Waiquiria - ret. 5:42|with Adie
2122 Blue Torino left ith 3arrera & wife |

2:26 Luie deft - ret. at 514

2:41 Green Torino left with Cortina, Reyes & wives = ret. at 4:58
2:42 White Vw PSA left with Abelardo & wife ~ ret. at 5103 \
2:48 Saker & Jorge left by foct ~ ret. at 4:19 :

4:26 Jesus & wife arrived ty foot . ' fl
§:12 Green Porinoleft with Cortina & Capote ' :
5:28 ¥hite-Vw left with Heriberto & Jesus - Jesus ret.5:57 in his car
5:33 White Yr PSA left with Abelardo & Rolando Rodriguez |
5:33 Grey Pontiac left with Capo & Sanchez

5:43 Blue Pord left with Adis & Dora i
5152 Olga, Marta's mothers & others XEx arrived by foot

|
i
|

\
a drely





SECRET

ca

x

iam 7
Chief of Station, Mexico Citys” | accor
PU sa Sree

© KDAFGUAN Operations Report = March through May 1971 (Project. _Renewal))
Fichew aiguinio- ermieintls

i
References: A. HMMA-40299, 24 March 1971 {
8. HMMW-17977, 30 June 1970 |

1, As reported in paragraph 1, of Reference A, this |
Operations Report is intended to contribute the necessary
information for the Project Renewal to cover Fiscal Year 1972.

2. There was no chanyze in the information contained in
paragraph 2, Reference A, for the period covered in this report.

oP

3. No change since Reference A report.

PRODUCTION

4. In addition to the normal photographic coverage of ‘the
KDACOUSTIC installation, KDAFGUAN-1 and KOAFGHAN-2 provided |
specifle coverage for the various KDACOUSTIC-3 operations. |
(MEXLCO CITY-16535; 7 May 1971). This coverage enabled the
Station to determine KDACOUSTIC-3 id his wife's movements,
an dmportant factor in timing KDACROBAT-12's calls and visit to
KDACOUSTIC-3's home. Other Significant results of the KDAFGHAN
operation include photographic inforsation on specific visitors
to the KDACOUSTIC installation of special interest to the
LNERGO office, This information consists of photoxraphs o
{. individuals and, when available, photozvaphs of vehicles and U.S.
license plates. One stich recent incident involved an old LNERGO

Continued.....e4.

Distribution:
dovig. & 2 + Chief, WHD

ee “cea b-COEY.

OHSPATCH SYMBOL AND UME

HMMA - 40537
Ta a



CONTINUATION OF |

EATON

DISPATCH. SECRET

target who had been seen visiting the KDACOUSTIC ‘and MHHARSIL,
installations, KDAFGHAN-1 successfully identttied the individual.
Onee during the reporting period KUAFGHAN-3 passed ickly
infotation on a suspect student political leader visiting thé
KDACOUSTIC installation, We in turn ‘passed on the + formation

fo the KDCALVERT team soon enough so that the team vas ablo. to

fellow ‘the suspect leader home, and eventually identity him.
Also, ‘the Station Was able to identify the Jobs of mest of the
large Humber of new KDACOUSTIC, employees by KDAFGHAN-L photo
graphs and personal observations. Normally wo have been able
ceeetch movements of new and old employees during the initial
period when duties and contacts were being turned over to the

Row employees and so identify their duties. ee

COVER and SECURITY : !
i 5. No change since Reference A report. :
\

{
6. Tne following is a breakdown of the KDAPGHAN financial

requiroments for Fiscal Year 1972: |
Fy. 1971 FY 1972 FY.1973
Estimated Request Projection
Obligations {Boueessate
i
KDAFGHAN-1 Salary $ 4,800 $ 5,088
KUAFGHAN-2 Salary 1,920 2,112
Christmas Bonus 560 , | 690%
KDAFGHAN Basechouso Rent 1,200 1,200
{observation post) it
XNDAFGHAN Safehouse 3864 1,200
(for, Station meetings
with KDAFGHAN-1) |
utilities for Safehouse 500 500 | $00
~ and Basehouse |
Miscellaneous Expenses 1,250 1,250 1,250
(film, paper, chemicals, :
stationary) ‘i |
‘TOTALS $11,094 $112,950

*Increases reflect the “cost-of-living” granted to some Station
assets effective 1 January 1971.

FOREIGN CURRENCY

|
!
7. No change since Reference A. H
COMNITMENTS '
8. KDAFGHAN-1 and KDAFGHAN-2 xeceive one month's salary

as a Christaas bonus. KDAFGHAN'1 is reimbursed for operational
expenses related to the Project. \

9, No change from pwragraph G, Reference A..

ACCOUNTING

10. "The same as paragraph 7, Reference A-

rox
ON S33 vez previous eornon.
a)

PAGENO.
a | 2of 3



NTEITAVNDOL AND Sew

CONTINUATION OF

CORES ATEATION

Arent la

Gerald D. FAUL

DISPATCH SECRET HAMA = 0537)
shit
ASNEVES
11. None

EA lean

Teme
EX sa ver parvious common.



PROCTISING

| brah f=

. fontr quai
i an woot motte,

dg sex ico City _luceote wt

: ~ 1
S Report > October 1970 through February 1971

F 1
Reference: HMMA-39611.- 14 October 1970 : HH
1

1. This progress report will cover KDATGHAN activity for |
the period October 1970 through February 197] The next progress
Feport will dnelude the project renewal request and will be sub-
mitted during May 1971, an

BACKGROUND

2, The KDAFGIL Provided fixed photozraphic cove
of the PRRUMEX Pubass the P&RUMEN Consulate for part o
the period) Since the submission of tie last progress report inj):
yeference. ‘the only major change during this perlod was the
installation for a period of ole month of a TV-monitor/robot camera
Combination to cover the PBRUMIEN Con: wlate. This was done on a!
trial basis to cover a greater area of PBRUMEN activities. The |:
KDAFGHAN Baschouse:was ‘given additional requirements during October
1970, the month designated as PBRUNEN onthe j

OPERATIONAL DEVELOPMENTS - OPERATIONAL MEETINGS AND SECURITY

3. Gerald D. FANLANGER continues to be the Case Officer and”
handler of KDAFGHAN-1. He has met and could moet KDAFGHAN-2 in
an emergency. The alternate Case Officer is Terence D. SISTONE
Who meets KDAFGHAN-1 when FANLANGER is not available, Both |
FANLANGER and SISTONE ave known in alias, and both meet KDAPGHAN=T
ia a safchouse. During February 1971 the safehouse was changed, |

Continued......

Distribution;
VOvig. & 2- Chief, WHD

Core [oseaice svaot AND wumsee

oar
HMMA - 40299 | 24 March 1971
‘GassinGiTiON Wot ar womb

SECRET | Y%o-6-120/3



CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH

Meetings are generally held once a week: More ‘frequent contact
ca be made by telephone, For priority operational report in
KDAFGIAN-L goes to a payphone in the area (there wre several)
and télephones the office, relaying the message. | ile identifies
himself fivet same on tras ROz, ohne can call
KDAFGHAN 2 at his home and give him instructions, | phrased in
keneral soctal conversation. . The satehouse meetings are used to
pass to KDAFGHAN~L instructions, photographs or descriptions of
now KDACOUSTIC employees and itew targets, xencral requirements
ow the’ KDACOUSTIC installation, and of course alt |financial
matters, KDAFGHAN-1 turns. over the weekly photographic product
and logs. tie. takes’ this opportunity to ask for supplies (devel-
oping: fluid, etc), make his: accountings, and discuss the targot.
‘These weekly moctings generally take from one to jtwo hours,

EXPANDED COVERAGE

4. During Ostober, the C/TECH at the Station! entered the
KDAFGHAN Baschouse, and installed a TV-mouitor and! Robot camera.
Essentially tho new Set-up was to expand KDAFGHAN-1's coverage
fo include the Consulate, in“addition to the Embassy front gate.
The equipment was so placed that while watching the’ front gato,
KDAFGHAN-1 could look through a monitor at the front gate of the
Consulate and if he saw.somconc of possible interest he pushed
a button and a picture was snapped: At the samo time, he
monitored the front gate and took pictures and kept| his log.
This. double coverage was retained only for. one month. The
Station found that the © was marginat because there was no
accompanying Log, and no way, of ideutitying any of the persons
whose pictures were being taken, The current arrangement is
that 1f the Station has an operational need for checking whether
a particular pexson visits the Consulate, we notify |KDAPGHAN-1
‘in advance, providing him a photograph and/or physical descriptio!

and then at the designated timo he personally monitors the
Consulate gate, while KDAFGHAN-2 handles the camora jon the main
gate and log. This varely occurs. We expect oven more traffic
through the Consulate now that, within the past two weeks the
Cultural Attache’s office has again been moved to the’ second
floor of the Consulate. Everyone soliciting propaganda, film,
and other types of information on PBRUNEN will be oatering
through the Consulate. . There has been no further action taken
with regard to tying audio coverage at the front g@ateiinto the
KDAFGHAN Baschouso so that KDAFGHAN-1 might be in a better
position to identify the persons going in and out of 'the Embassy.
Tnis is still a primary objective aimed at improving ithe

. KDAFGHAN end product,

PRODUCTION ;

5, The KDAFGHAN production has remained virtually constant.
The main value of the production has been to establish a pattern
of various employees, identify their autozodiles, obtain good
photographs. Photographs of visiting PBRUMEN officials have
also been of valuc occasionally when Headquarters is trying to
make a positive identification. KDAFGHAN can provide) current
photographs of TDY or transiting PBRUMEN officials, and ilead-
quarters can often through its assets make positive identifi-
Such a case. was that in which KDAFGHAN photographs

in WMMA-40241!

cations,
were furnished Headquarters and

use Previous EoITION.
SECRET PLN conruiveo,



CONTINUATION OF | :
oIsPATcH |

ation

SECRET ua

6, There have been no.security probloms ‘in the KDAFGHAN
operation during the period ofthis report, The safehouse was
changed to increase security and for conventence, The C/TECH
visited tho KDAFGHAN Baschouse to install the TV moniter and)

f

robot camera, but this was done after dusk,

7... Fmergency ‘contact instructions have been arranged with
KDAFGIAN-1. Anyone can contact KDAFGHAY-1 at anytime and anywhere
simply by saying. they are a friend of "Pepe Simon". KDAFGHAN-1
will reply, "I haven’t’scen him since last Christmas". KDAFGIAN-1
speaks native English and actually prefers to speak that language.

8. The onty chango in the financial commitments under this _
project is tho change in rent. The old safchouse rent’ was $72.00
per mouth, This’was through February 1971. . Beginning 1 March, tho
new! safehouse rent 18 $100.00 pox month.
PLANS i

|

9, The Station is continuing to be alert for a new baschouse
which could provide better coverage. As montioned above, the
Station continues to be alort for ways to add audio coverage to
the KDAFGHAN Basehouse,

payee “4
CG Beek
Elsie I, SCALETTI

|

_5o- 12/3

Fons
oe

iy
i

Sia veernevnus vaon |

CLASSIFICATION PAGE RO,

I
SECRET Papers 3 of 3
yosnsnensnsnseneecnse) oy



DISPATCH [scerss

aI

Chief, Western Hemisyhere Division

Chief of Station, i |

exico City Q Le | ineee ;
2. | bes i

a 7
SLroxron Operation Report for the Period June through September 1

aiiew Wiaureto  evietnces

_ Reference: HMMA ~ 33996, 3 June 1970

BACKGROUND

1, The LIONION Project continues to provide the Station
rwith Lixed photographic and physical surveiliance of the.
PBRUMEN Embassy and COAsU1ato ii Mexico City. The LIONION ,.
baschouse which covers the two targets is manned by LIOXLON-1
and 2° The only chazse in the operation of this Project since
the last quarterly operational report forwarded in Reference,
dispatch, was LIONION-1's one month trip to Europe during . |
September. :

OPERATIONAL DEVELOPMENTS - OPERATIONAL MEETINGS AN!

2. Since the departure of Andrew BE. PELLEM : LIONIONTL
and 2 have continued to be handled by Gerald DP, FAHEANGE!

is known to LIONION-1 in alias, Meetings are held the |
LIONION-1 satfehouse (some distance a from the basehouse) on
a weekly basis, usually at 1730 on Frid: At these meetings
developed film, selected prints’ and LIONION-1's log are picked

up from LIONION-1 and requirements are levied whenever applicable.

If any outstanding requirements are pending, LIONION-1 submits

his report during these meetings. '

Continued....

Distribution: Hl
Orig. and 2 - Chief, WHD

aor enim ~"Tosratn SAGAN ALBEE ‘oat -
HMMA-- 39611 | 14 October 1970
saat — asancaTION TGS Fie MUNSTE

SECRET i “50-6-122/3 I



CONTINUATION OF i
DISPATCH

EMPROTING COVERAGE

3. The rull potential of the LIONION-1 operation is |
hampered by the lack of an audio installation at the LIRING
gatéhouse covered by the LIONION-L and 2 observation post,

An audio installation would serve, in most cases, to identify
the individuals who are photographed by LIONION-1 since they © |
“normally identify" themselves to the gatehouse attendant. Tho |
Station is. constantly. cxamining the possibility of an audio iis
qe j dustallation at this point. There are a number of Station assets
who, have ‘eccasional access to the gatehouse, and it is conceivable
|Vthae one .of:-them could place a quick plant device, provided A
Security tonditiots are favorable. The Station-assets who visit
the LIRING complex approximately once a weck are: LIRELEC-1; hy
LITAINT-2; LIHACK-4 and ‘to a lesser extent LIBANGLE-. -1, Of this
group, LITAINT-2 appears to have gained the confidence among | | |
“uLERING personnel, .for whom he has- provided services and purchased
with: Station. assistance, clothing and other items outside Mexico.
Prior, to-making any installation, Station will submit an opera- .
tional plan for Headquarters~approval, Station is also installing
atv camera monitor in the LIONION basehouse to cover the e LIRING
conSulaté.~ The ins€allation will be coordinated with a robot. |
photo camera so that photos can be taken of persons whom LIONION-1

determines to be of Station interest.

|
-PRODUCTION |
4, ‘The LIONION production has remained virtually constant!
since ‘the primary objectives of the installation seldom change.| |
Except for specific individuals, as in the case of AVDIME-1, |
the general production material is similar to the contents of ° =,
paragraph 4 of Reference. In view of this it would be redundant
i to repeat the entire paragraph. : !

COVER AND SECURITY uf
5. There ‘were no security problems in the LIONION operation
during the period of this report. The Case Officer visited the|
basehouse once during the hours of darkness. As reported pre-
viously, meetings with LIONION-1 are held in his safehouse,
which is in another section of Mexico City. The question of
AMCHAMPAGNE-L's debriefing and the "vieja" the L{RING personnel
told ANCHAMPAGNE-1 about is being covered in separate dispatch
HMMA 39604.

FE ES

6. There were no changes in the projected LIONION expendi-
tures reported in the paragraphs, under FINANCES, in Reference |

dispatch, i

PLANS:

7. .The objectives outlined in paragraph 8, Reference,
continue in effect, Station is going ahead in the installation |
of the TV monitoring system with accompanying robot photographic ,
camera in, order to give a more complete coverage of the LIRING

consulate.

i

“TBREETIO.

i
| @of

im —~ LASSTFICATION

ame 53a * use pxevious comon. SECRET



SH STTe aS OT

CONTINUATION OF Bahia
CISPATCH i SECRET ! HMMA -39611

idaentnseneeteasest as tenemeesasases ee

8... The Station is also examining the possibility: of
acquiring a second basehouse directly across ‘the street trom |
the LIRING gatehouse. There are two five: story apartment buildings
which would provide a better view, of the LIRING Complex from a
technical :point of view, particularly if an apartment above the
third floor can be rented... The technical advantages would pro-,
vide the observer a much closer view of the gatehouse, and would
provide. a more. coniprehensive coverage of the LIRING internal |!
grounds, The préSent LIOSION -baschouse is a low three story |
building, from which itis virtually! impossible to see the |
routes ‘traveled by persons who are escorted or directed from jone.
bullding.to another, [f a suitable apartment can be obtained in
one of the two buildings across. from the gatehouse, it would 'be
occupied by:a Station asset other than LIONION-1 and 2, and |.
Compartmented from the latter two, In the event an apartment can
be located and rented across from the gatehouso, the occupant *

would. provide photographic and visual surveillance of the gatehouse
and internai grounds. :

9. The LIONIONs, if they Stay where they are at, would |then
concentrate on the consulate and the very limited coverage of
the internal LIRING grounds, Mowever, if they can locate suitable
quarters on the rear street perpendicular to the one on which
the main gate is located, they ideally could cover the consulate
as woll'as a third, little known entrance into the LIRING compound
which LITAINT-2 has reported being used by student te
at night, From the current LIONION basehouse, this third éntrance
cafinot be seen at all,

the possibility

10, Finally, the Station continues to explor
aph 3 above.

of installing an audio device as mentioned in para

|
i

{

cee eee :
Salt LAaklan go :
Gerald ‘D, FANLANGER /
i

\

;

i

T CCASSIFIEATION

Sa usereesious common. | eae yicas



Cam

SECRET

DISPATCH

Lhter, Western temisphere Division

ORir ounces i

| cae

: Chief of Station, Mexico City 5
aa fe

ian © LIONION/LIONION=2
Rae RMR

Reference: HMMY - 18065

i" 1. Reference asked for the Station’
AMCHAMPAGNE-1's Yeference to "una vieja"
activities of LIRING.

miy “be suspect in the eyes of LIRING, she

ov years ayo, look across the street
ment buildings there and shake his fist.

6 floors high
LIONION-2 does
residing in any

not know if there are any

Her,
an occupant of these apartments as being
activities of
Of these buildings.
ether end of the block,
There is an old couple living
the wife is considerably older

Distribution:
“Orig. and 2 - Chief, wap

eS cory

S comments on
monitoring the

sed with LIONION-2
© been singled out
People near by who
Soopers.

The Station discus:
herself whether she thought she might hee
by LIRING ov whether there were any othey
might have. been identified by LIRING as en

not rule out
does remember that

ain vate some months
and point up to two apart-
On examination, thero
© front gate, each

LIRING~2 would ocCasionally come out the m:

are two apartments directly across from thi
and with ‘private apartments on each floor,
"little old ladies"
of them now (see para 3 below) but none of these
apartments have been vacated during the past
and the’ Station's guess is that LIRING probably suspects
the one monitoring the
LIRING personnel because of the Strategic location
The- LIONION baschouse is at the extreme
across from the offices of LIRING-13,
in the house
than LIONION.

the fact LIONION-2

several years,

next ‘to LIONION, but

Continued...

~[SisPATCH Sriot AND wuiMBtR
UMMA - 39604

ome
13 October 1970

Cocivuy
SECRET

ra
| FFN:g P-7037



SRT Sea Sowera

errr

CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH

3. LIONTON=1 was able to contribute further information,

He recalled witnessing an incident approximately tn early

1968 which could possibly have been connected with AMCHAMPAGNE-1"s
“una vieja" comment; an older woman Living at that time in

one of the apartments of para 2 above, complained first to

LIRING and ‘then notified the: police’ that LIRING vehicles blocked
ary tO cher driveways? ‘The LIRING official denied that LIRING 5
vehicles ‘were ‘involved but admitted the possibility that visitors
“sparked there occasionally. © This beinig the case, the LIRING 1
“official claimed that. LIRING had no vontrel over the situation, ‘
The woman was. later observed by LIONION-1 to tangle verbally
Several times with people who had parked: their curs -tt-her uriveway,
and crossed the ‘street on foot to the LIRING entrance. At the | '
very least, this woman must have impressed LIRING personnel ae

a -hardssing “busy body", and she would seem to be a strong candi-
date for the "vieja" of the ANCHAMPAGNE=1 report. :

4. As far as tho Station or LIONION-2 is aware, the LIRINGers
have never taker any provocative action against LIONION basehouss,
Despite LIRING-2's occasional gestures of disploasure, LIRING
seems to have accepted the fact there is probably visual sur-
voillance of their compound.

Cdsai
Elsie I, SCALETTI

nna a CASSIE aTION rerenl ise TRAGER.

: aussie
rion. | ie i
USE PREVIOUS EDITION | siatetnsace ate pear apres



H ae Chief of Station, Mexico City.
H z
I

a sateeai aceon zeny fareeenes aAsaaceaanente

~ Chio£, Western Hemisphere. Division. {
LIONTON/LIONION/2 ;

Fave aR nael: HH SPevasveresesnsenteteninrevernres

1 fang

References; A, RUMA 39283 \
B. UFFA 2181 can

1. fo note in parograph 5 of attachment to reference B,

a reference to “una-vioja."” We presume this is identical with
LIONION/2. : :

2. Station comments will bo appreciated,

Kenneth G. FURNELL

\

va |

Distribution:
a Orig & 1 - COS, Hoxico City

coon aeRO

® 201-305604

$u-6-122/3
TENG
ra

COOFDHATING

Dif a

aaa

RELEASING



ange to 408 WOFIING

sph

DISPATCH 7 a =

i
Ino MOINS BILE

omy ovairo ous

Reference: HMMW~17869

Bac

ROU:

1. The LIONION Project provides a fixed photographic sur-
veillance. of LIRING and a base .for the radio dispaten of-the
LIEMBRACE surveillance team when used in the vicinity of LIRING
The basehouse is manned by LIONION-1 and LIONION-2,. who have
operated as a team against the LIRING target since 1960.

unity,
reporting period LIONTOS es ‘te he hand?
Andvew E. PELLEMENT, who is) ku to LIONION-1 in allas, ‘
meetings were held on an average of once a week to d 5
week's production with additional meetings hold as
In January 1970, Station had LIONION-L change safchous
neetings with Station officers. He moved Irom one apartment used
for this purpose to another Similarly priced anartment. This move
was made for the sake of convenience, since the first apartment
was in a congested area, . A one-year lease was signed by LIONTON-1
in alias, and no co-signer was required. LIONION-1 uses the
apartment evenings and weekends to add credence to the fact that
he lives out-of-town and maintains this small apartment in Mexico
City for use during his frequent visits, Followtng PELLEMENT's
departure in Tate May, 1D. FAHLANGER, known to LIONION-1

in alias assumed responsibility for the LIONION Project and meets
remilarly with LIONION- Nadine B. SCOCOZZA, known to LIONION-1
by true first name only, also occasionally meets with LIONION-1 to
discuss personality information on LIRINGers on whom SCOCOZZA is

making studies,

Distribution; Continued...

vOvis, and 2 ~ Chief seeecee
a 1 - cos, i
APY gessoerctstigssS0eatocoabaa

cess CHAAR 1 Poicrazon somb0t ano mavte lowe

AMMA - 55996 3 June 1970

CASERCATON aie Woe Hid SoM

SECRET 0-6 4122/3



Jthe

) Vocation

these

CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH

ck of complemen-
- to init the eftectivenoss of the
LIONLON photo production in the se ot identifying LIRING
installation visitors, -The. Station is p sently Fo-exanining the
various points of view which the LIONLON baschouse provides of
LINING in order to determine what stegs can be, taken to inprove
sefulness of the LIONION product. From the window in the
room *here the pulse. camera was previously installed, an oxeellent
view caiivbe obtained’ of the LIRING garden and walkways between

the three: LIRING bulldings (in addition to the LIRING Consulate).
By having LIONION=1 .temporarily-leave coverage of the main. entrance
from time to times and-having him, ou a.spotcheck basis, view the
garden :area, the: §tation hopes. to usate its information on the

of LIRED offices, theit general patterhs of move-
ment and activity, et! LIONION-1 will be assigned coverage of
this intérior area of LIRING at. different times of the day and
evening to see whith rooms.are used at night, which appear to be
living quarters at present, etc, After a trial: period of about
one’month, the results of this new coverage will be analyzed in
order to determine thé value of the information already collected,
and whether this additional coverage is worth tho effort aid the
time-‘taken away from the main entrance coverage.

tary audio cove!

PRODUCTION

4. The LIONION Prodtiction for the reporting period, 1:
February through: 31 May 1970, consisted almost entirely of photo-
graphic coverage of visitors to the LIRING main entrance ‘and logs
of movement of LIRING pexsornel and visitors. This proved very
useful in identifying new LIRING PCS employees in Mexico, obtaining
photographs of them, and taking up-to-date photos of other
employces. This monitoring also revealed which cars the various
employees usually drive, and the licease plates of cach, Based
on LIOSION's log some information was obtained on the pattern of
ployees. This latter information is limited since the
employees often arrive and depart at different hours and often
switch cars. When this happens at dusk or evenings, it is impos-
sible to identify the driver or passenger.

LIONION-1 also took pictures of what appear to be Amexican
visitors to the front gate. In the case of Az ears af
in automobiles beariag U.S. license plates, the license plate
numbers, car description, and sterile copies of photographs, were

given LNERGO for identification,

The Station utilized LIONION-1 photographic coverage and his
log to check on the reports of Station assets who claim to visit
LIRING. Un the case of some assets LIUNION-1 was given a photo~
graph of the agent and told to be particularly alert at certain
times of certain days to confirm the agent's entry, exit, ete.
This proved particularly useful in checking AVDIME-L's story of
contact with LERING and confirmed LIRELIC-1's visits to LIRING
at an early stage in oqur recontact with LIRELIC-1.

The lack of photographic coverage of the LIRING Consulate
has meant that the Station has been ble to check whether cer-
tain groups of special interest, such as the Dominican exiles,
Jamaicans, ete., went to the Consulate for visas. ,Through LIENVOY
however, thé Station obtains information on many of the» persons
or groups who are-applying for visas, aud from the manifests the
Station knows who ;actually obtains v and travels to PBRUMEN.
In tho case.of’a critical situation and with advance notice,
LIONION-1 can always be asked to give ¢

&

close visual coverage of the

form
ace

53a

Use Previous certion. |



CART CATION [ BOPATEN GTMUST AND RONDE
SECRET |

Consulate or Gatchouxe, whichever is more logical, and report -
immediately to the Station by phone on certain groups or visitors,

CONTINUATION OF H
DISPATCH H

COVER AND SECURITY

5. There havo oes no deveiopments ether during the period
of this report or during the Project Year which have affosted the
security of thé LIONION operation, Duc to the proximity of ‘the
LIOXION baschouse to L{RING, care has been taken to limt the

lerof visits by Station officers. When such visits are necessar:
LIONION-1 meets the Station officcr outside the LIRING area and
drives him back: to the basehouge in LIONION-1's own car. The base-
‘house has.'a driveway. off ‘the stréet entrance-way, which facilitates
g non-daylight hours without being seen from the LIRING
During the Project. vear,-Station officers entered the
basehotse on only three occasions, PELLENENT twice, and Station
WOACRE technician, Walter W. CORNBURY,-onec, Regular meetings with
LIONION-1 are conducted in the safesite described in paragraph 2,
During the Project Year, following the demise of the LISAMPAN opera~
tion and the pulse camera production, all extraneous material, both
electronic and Photographic, was removed from tho basehouso,. over
a period of time, in order to limit the amount of compromising.
material located in tho baschouse.

FINANCES

6. During the reporting period, routine LIONION expenditures
amounted to $1,872,.00.USD, and no unanticipated expenditures were
made. The anticipated expense total for the Project Year will be
$10,645.00, which is less than the Approved figure of $11,994. An ~
unknown portion of the difference is absorbed by Headquarters fund-
ing of LIONION photographic supplies received through WOACRE chanel

7. The following is a breakdown of anticipated expenditures
for the LIONION Project for FY-71 as compared with tho approved

costs for FY-70:

Salaries: FY 1970 FY 1974
LIONION-2 4,800 4,800
LIONION-2 1,920 1,920
Xmas bonuses 560 560
Rents:
LIONION Baschouse (observation post) 1,700 1,200 d
LIONION Safchouse (for mectings 864 864
with C/O)

Utilities for both 500 . 500
Operational Expenses: :
Film 1,000 1,000
Paper 450 450 :
Chemicals 300 300
“Miscellaneous:
Operational 150 150
Special Gift to LEONION-1* (Go : 559

jaaeee : COBSIFIGATION | PAGE NO.

82a" 53a use previous coirion SECRET Mee ray



CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

i As reported tn.the last Progress Report (HMMA-3848S), the
Station paid LIONION-1 $250.00 USD in January .1970 to cover the
unexpected medical expenses. of LIONION-?,. This sum had originally
been intended as the second of two ins

allments to compensate
LIONION-1 for cutting his long overdue vacation trip to Eyrope
from one month to two wecks in early summer of 1969, Reinstate-
ment of this. payment in the FY-71 budget is requested (and is
actually in lieu of a-salary increase).

PLANS

“8, As discussed above, the Station plans to continue using
the LIONION Base’ as a-collection point for background information
‘on LIRING and its employees, to assist the Section in target

-The Station is trying to collect information on
six’ major target. personnél (i.e. LIRING officers), and in order
to properly asséss the personnel selected, and try to recruit and
runaccess agents against: them,. additional information is needed
on their pattern of activity, friends, contacts, work habits, etc.
It is hoped that LIONION-1 will be able to make ‘a worthwhile con-
tribution-to this effort. At the same time, he will be asked to
remain alert “for any visitors of possible interest (Americans,
studénts;. etc.)..The next step in the Station's over-all plan will
be to assess LIONION-1's ability to observe and draw appropriate
conclusions from his observations, and write these up for the
Station, The Station will also try to find some formula for per-
mitting LIONION-1 and 2 to continue photographic coverage, but
perhaps on a more limited basis than in the past, and at the same
time continue their target analysis work,

Although not p}anned for the immediate future and dependent
onthe need for Consulate coverage, the Station still may wish
to install a TV mofitoring system on the Consulate as well as
live, manual camera coverage of the main entrance. This feature
was discussed in the previous LIONION operational report.

itd be bles =
Yor/Horace E,

PRALLETT

Hs

ror

oes 53a
es)

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

Use previous eo:TION.
continveD

i
L4of4



j DISPATCH _ SECRET

:
g |
Chief, Western Hemisphere Division |
Coy moran Ee aunt at ze -
Chief of station, (ATTN: _ KSPICE) | (ean aed wotsing
a ce ofp
Acting Chief of Station, Mexico cite ~~ | Pasteaaaasize
A ising

~ “Y .}ScOperat Tonal 7 PBRUNEN/ LIONION/TECHS
cag WIONION Progress Report, 1 October 1969 through 31 January 1970-2 __

Reference: HMMA -. 38073, 7.November 1969

BACKGROUND

1. The LIONION Project: provides a fixed photographic sur-
veillance of LIRING and a base for the radio dispatch of the LIEMBRACE
surveillance team. The basehouse is-manned by LIONION-1 and LIONION-2,
who have operated as a team against the LIRING target. for more than

six years.

OPERATIONAL DEVELOPMENTS

“2. Operational Meetings. During the reporting perlod LIONION-1
i continued to be handled directly by Andrew E. PELLEMENT. Regular

meetings were held on an average of once a week with additional
meetings held as required to answer short suspense requirements.

3. Photographic. \ There was no significant change in. the
photographie coverage of LIRING during the reporting perlod. The
subject of a replacement for the pulse camera. coverage of the Consu-
late was discussed with the MKSPICE technicians who visited the
Station in November 1969 They agreed with the Station that photo~
graphic coverage of the Consulate could be managed through the
installation of a closed circuit television system with a remote
controlled Robot camera coaxially mounted. The TV monitor and remote
control trigger would be located in the same room from which LIONION-1
regularly covers the LIRING main gate. LIONION-1 coula thus check
the TV monitor, see if targets of interest appeared on the TV screen
im and use the remote controlled camera to take only those pictures
i which he considered of value, While the Station agrees that this

Continued...

. Distribution: —
orig. and/1/- Chief, WHD
1 - cos,

naa AN wast Tent
HMMA - 38483 19 February 1970
r a Tas hesape ee
SECRET | 750-6-122/3
!



—
t CONTINUATION OF
OISPATCH

FTN @TMBET ANG NOMDER

WMA - 38488

system should provide good photegrzchic coverage of

Fesulting in a manaxeable number c addi tional photographa thant
Station has delayed installation of this system pending. improvement
in the Statlon's‘ability to identify the subjects of LIONION-1's
The “Statton does not wish to increase the number of

nificant portioz of them cannot be identified.

loss of
ability ors photographed by LIONION-1
Station studies of the LIENVOY coverage have shown thel. Erestor é
coverage alone is. riot sufficient to significantly increase the

identification process.even if this coverage was furnished live. to

A RTA Sie EB Na

LIONION-1 The. Station has: recently received additional information
: concerning the interior communications system of LIRING and is
presently making a study of this matter, This subject will be dis-
cussed with Cedric B..REDINBATT during his forthcoming TDY to tho
aecaisaananail Station. .
PRODUCTION

5. While the Statiom continued to be seriously hindered in

its identification of LIRING visitors during the reporting period

for lack of a suitable replacement for LISAMPAN/DOG, the Station

was able to verify visits of LITAINT-2 and other agents to LIRING

on different occasions.- LIONION-1 is aiding the Station in the
identification of new PCS LIRING personnel. Through LIENVOY and
LIFEAT, we are aware that LIRING is going through a period of
nurierous personnel changes, the exteat of which has yet.to be deter+
mined. LIONION-1's photographs and personal observation has greatly
aided in determining which persons are visitors and which appear

to have arrived PCS. Some functioral identification of new personnel
has already been made based on LIONION-1's reports on the people

with whom the new employees usually associate. Increasing use was
made of LIONION=1 to dispatch the LIEMBRACE team during the reporting
. period. Except for a period of’about one month when the dispatch
radio was out. of commission, LIONION-1 has dispatched the team on

an average of once a week in support of the Station's. attempt to
learn the new addresses of LIRING personnel, and Jearn more about

the off duty activities of personne! considered of priority interest

in LIRING.

SECURITY

6. There were no developments affecting the security of the
LIONION operation during the reporting period.

FINANCES

7. During the reporting period, routine LIONION expenditures
amounted to $4270.00 USD. In early December 1969, LIONION-2
suffered a serious accidental fali while at home in the basehouse.
Due to her age, LIONION-1 sent.her to San Antonio for a complete
medical examination, The doctors found her in good health for ner
age and she is now feeling fine. Instead of giving LIONION-1 the
loan he requested in order to cover the cost of the trip, the Station
gave him the one-time gift programmed in the FY-70 LIONION budget
of $250.00 USD. This money had originally been programmed to
reimburse LIONION-1 for the additioz3! cost involved in deferring
half of his planhed one month vacatioa to Europe in summer 1969
until 1970, LIONION-1 had not had 2 regular vacation in more than
five years, and the Station felt that while he was certainly entitled
to the month's time, we could not close the LIONION operation for
that period of time. Although no connitment has been made to

7 7 CASSIFATES T BASE NO
3 Sa USE PREVIOUS EDITION. {
SECRET XX conmmueo | 2 of 3
f



} which could continue to rise in coming years. LIONION-1 said he

-our ability “to idon

CONTINUATION OF : COAST CATION [eaenee RAO TOMER
DISPATCH SECRET | UMMA = 38483

LIONION-1, the Station will recommend that the FY-71 budget include
Another gift of $250.00 USD to defray part of the expense of the air
fare.on the second part of his vacation. The matter of future medical
expenses was discussed with LIONLON-1 and he said that should there

be additional expetses for LIONION-2 in the future which he cannot pay
from his own budget, then he will ask his two brethers who have respon-
sible jobs in WOLADY: for istance. LIONION-1 felt that sinco sho
lives with him, «it. was: his responsibility to pay the first medical
expenses. of LIUNION-2 which ‘have,occurred for a considerable period

of time. . PELLEMENT ‘informed LIONION-1 that duc ‘to the age of LIONION-2
the Station cannot assume responsibility for, her medical expenses

understood this: ‘and.was very grateful to RVROCK for helping this one
time.

PLANS

8. As discussed above, the Station's main plans for the. LIONION
Project. during the first three months of CY-70 will .be to increase
fy the LIONION photographic product. Station
recommendations for iimprovement in this field will be forwarded
promptly when a feasible program has been found. The Station will
continue to usc LIONION-1 -to dispatch the LIEMBRACE team. The immediate
goals are to identify the residences of the new LIRING personnel when
unable to do so through more passive means, and to continue surveillance,
for différent lengths of timo on different days against priority LIRING
targets with the hopo that by determining their patterns of activity,
the Station will be able to improve its access to them and the LIRING

target.

ae or/iorace E. PRALLETT

PAGE ND.

3 of 3

et ‘CLASSIFICATION

ener | ane ea 150 | counmueo

‘ SOL (IAS 2



DISPATCH | scrvrs

=

Chief, Western ten here Div

a ame ste piaesiroe

ED RE ANDES

Sab ee tty
omy quis isa”
[an OCLs

ctor

i

Action Required: None, FYI

BACKGROUND _

veillance of LIRING and
LIEMBRACE surveillance team,
and LIONION-2, who have operated
target for more than six years.

OPERATIONAL DEVELOPMENTS

2. Operational veetin
tinued to moet at te:
the week's activity
meetings were held,

code,

photog

that the pulse camera coveraze of the
October (see paragraph. 8).

1. The LIONION Project provide:

3. ppugtestaphic. There was no significant change in tho
whic coverage of LIRING during the x

AGG

Sa. fixed photographic sur-
a base for the radio di

‘The basehouse is

atch of the
anned by LIONION-1

as a team avainst the LIRING

+ LIONTON-1 and the undersigned con-
e each week to.
and toe discuss new requirements, Additional

required, to levy new requirements which y~
had a Short suspense time. LIONEON-1 usual
to these short suspensé requirements by tele,

hange the results of

¥ provided the answers
phone using a prearranged

eporting period except
Consulate terminated in

ion review of the

LIONION product subsequent bo the To.

identify LIRING visitor
viously identified, LY

the Station is pres
LIONION-1 with a straight

Distribution: .
Original and 2 - Chief, wuD

ds Audio Reguirencnts for LfOxtoy.

May 1969, shows a sixaificant decrease in LIONLON
> Relying on his menory of persons pre-

ON-1 is able to identify routine visitors,
but now he has no way of identifying new vi

ntly assessing the possibility of providing
tap of the former LISAMPAN/DOG line.

MPAN/DOG in early
‘s ability to

tors. For this reason,

Continued...

‘Beaton alte aa

HMMA = 38073

oat

7 November 1989

SECRET

TTR T
+ 50-6-122.3



CONTINUATION OF

“LIONTON-1 would: Tive-monttor this line and use Lt to aid “in

. their presence wis reported elsewhere. LIONION~1 verified that

FINANCES

DISPATCH i

jor experience with

identifying LIRING visitors. pased on
(he LISAMPAN/DOG. it ds known that LIRTNG visttors arg Crequently
announced by Lelephone to LIKING officers ingidd. For security
Yeasons, we do not wish Ww tap the Line from the street box and
run tt directly to the LIONION LP, but we are presently deter-
mining the feasibility of tapping the line from the central

amo and running “tt from there to the LP. The risk in this
case 1s considerably, reduced since there is no direct’ connection
between LIR and LIONION@1, and LIFEAT experience has: deter-
mined that any phone company employce who discovers the well
disguised tap will think Lt was done by the Mexican Government,
and will not report it ‘to anyone. Further information on this
matter will be forwarded upon completion of the casing by
LIFEUD-2. Routine telephone Company repairs in the area of the
LP have. delayed thevcasing of the area, but this will be done
once repairs are completed.

PRODUCTION

5... As. reported above, ‘the Station was seriously hindered
in identifying LIRING visitors during the roporting period due
to the absence of audio as a complement to the LIONION photogra=
phic product. Thus there was Little development of information
regarding new visitors to LIRING.” Utilization of the LIONION
product: during the reporting period was primarily confined to
confirming whether or not -LIRING officials wore at LIRING when

LITAINT-2 did visit LIRING at the time when he reported having
® conversation with LIRING-2.and LIONION-1 verified that they
loft LIRING at the hour stated by LITAINT-2. LIMACK-8 was :
subsequently able to verify their arrival at LIRING-2's residence.
Move recently, LIONION-1 was queried regarding the presence or ~
absence of LIRING-25 in response to certain reports that LIRING-25
had returned to Mexico-City. LIONION-1 revorted that he hid

not seen LIRING-25 for about six weeks. Utilization of the
LIONION product was further hindered by the absence of any full-
time Intelligence Assistant for the Station PBRUMEN Section .
during most of the reporting period. There was, thus, no one

to analyze the weekly product, or resolve possible leads to the
identity of LIRING visitors, Paragraphs $ and 9 below discuss
current cfforts to make better use of this product.

SECURITY

6. There weré no developments affecting the security of
the LIONION operation during the reporting period.

7. During the reporting period, routine LIONION expendi-
tures amounted to $1,714.85 USD. No additional expenditures
were made.

PLANS

8. In addition to the: audio coverage discussed in para-
graph 4 above, the Station is also considering the installation
of closed circuit television coverage ot the LIRING Consulate,
previously covered by the pulse camera. Pev DIRECTOR 46064
pulse camera coverage was terminated on 20 October 1969. It is
hoped that a satisfactory system can be arranged whereby LIONION-1

3" saa

PAGE NG,

ee ; Bor 3

} continues

CLasainCATOR

USE PREVIOUS EDITION.

SECRET



7 STRUT AND NONTER

CONTINUATION OF eae int
DISPATCH

SECRET i UMMA

while continuing, his live coverage of the main entrance, can
mouttor the activity of the Consulate on a TW monitor and take
pictures by remote control when a target of interest appears.
For this purpose-a regular 35 mm camera with telefoto lens would
be mounted in Vel to the TY camera. ‘The interaction between
the two camer. ould produce a manageable amount of photographs.
which. i 4s, hoped, cun be identified by LIONION-L from the audio
take which will compiiinent. the operation. Detailed Station plans
for| beta the" addttion of audio and television coverage of LIRING
-witil be the bject of .a separate dispatch as soon as specific
plans have been: prepared “and sufficient casing accomplished,

9. In addition to planning an increase in the technical
capability of LIONION-1, the Station plans to utilize Nadine B.
-SCOCOZZA, tho PBRUMEN Section's new Intelligence Assistant, to
. actively pursue the leads developed by the LIONION operation.

By using ‘the Station capability to resolve license plates, tele-
phone uunbers,. to conduct pretense iavestigations, and surveillance,
dt is hoped to develop leads to new access agents to. LIRING. Once
:certain targets have. been spotted and identified, ‘and available .
background ‘information gathéred to form a preliminary assossment

as to their suitability’ for approach, it is planned to furnish. these
leads to Henry J.. SLOMA) ‘and other Station case officers for sub-
sequent development and possible recruitment.

i

for/John A, PROBERT

‘CURSSIFIEATION ]

S28 59a use recvious comin. SECRET?



NZ UC | eee

;;—-Chiof of Station,: Mexico City

x

i
to boven cua oe
L ian muy L

a os To

_Uhief, Western Homisphere Division —__

- iM
rei eEONION/—— aia oe Ete

Action Required: FYI

1, When Walter W. CORNBURY was at Headquarters on hig.
medical TDY, ho raised the question of replacing the LIONION
Pulso Camera with closed circuit TV, This would enable
LIONION/1 to monitor the Consulate at tho fame time he wags

=. maintaining his coverage at the main gato. CORNBURY advised
that the equipment was available at WOACRE and that it could
be shipped down and tried on an experimental basis.

2, Wa advised CORNBURY that basically we had no objection
to the proposal. We commented however, that the final decision
on the matter rested with the Station and that he should take up

* the matter with the Station upon his return,

3. The foregoing in no wa effects the pryious authoriz
removal of the LIONION Pulse Camera. ee ¢ nese

Kenneth G, FURNBLL

Distribution:
orig & 1 = COS, Mexico City

24 OCT WES ims
| 1CH SYMBOL AND wuntRt Z
|
j HMMW=17540 21 October 1969
AS OTON, fey ie Ea
'
: | S-E~C-R-E-T |__“s0-3-122/3
: ORIGHHATING
cm = eit tent
WH/T/R dp
y ia COOROINATING
one srmsor | OHENCER'S RAE

GMs

ONCE SYMBOL Gast
C/WH/L | jp——__
a “___[_DISPA



rate Ld Oot!

SS
anu zt" DISsEANTATION Olissex — Oncwo = C] trun to arene OD rua nio

on

Orcs mes rte no.

D-S. “2- f
igahalinlaen i
to 7” 10 322 darts oneomererd 6.0 64

MEXICO CITY 7
LIONION
REFS: A, DIRECTOR 2756"

B, MEXICO CITY 1677 (IN 64688) **

1. APPROVED PARA ONE REQUEST REF B. 7 ¢
+2, FILE; 30-6-122/3.
END OF MESSAGE

WH Comment:*A. Approved removal of LIONION Pulse camera provided
replaced by full time separate operator for Con=
sulate coverage,

4B, Request authority remove without promising to provide
full time separate operator, LIONION will cover on
selective basis both Embassy entrances,

fa
Din in
Willian
c/WHD

RELEASING OFFICER,

Broe CS copy

COORDINATING OFFICERS
| S-E-C-R-E-T

REPRODUCTION &Y OTHER THAN THE ISSUING GFFICE IS PROHIBITED.



£

TDissennaTion Ct { TIALS SECU BY

Pepe & rf
sechesisurantanenl Diver Filed tos

lance agate el] eet eee we gacouctianar veqicars pe

wore lve Chee

cuaaary Ty ce rue No,

ae

3] Fits, va
mdi i ms,
és

10c8 PRE MO

ne no U seusy to ena

ZED. CL SS,

: HUNITSISSE
SECRET 1401032 OCT 69 CITE MEXICO CITY a) xe
DIRECTOR cia Peat
Cowrou >
KLONTON i

REF DIRECTOR 42756 H

te REQUEST AUTHORITY REMOVE LIONION PULSE CAMERA WITHOUT
PROMISING PROVIDE FULL-TIME "SEPARATE OPERATOR” FOR CONSULATE
COVERAGE (MENTIONED REF) AS CONDITION oF REMOVAL. IT HAS BEEN
AND REMAINS OUR INTENT THAT ONE OPERATOR ONLY, LIONION-1,
NORMALLY COVER ON SELECTIVE BASIS BOTH PBRUMEN EMBASSY ENTRANCES

i WITH MAUUAL CAMERA, MOVING FROM GATEHOUSE TO CONSULATE VANTAGE
‘ POINTS WITHIN OP APARTMENT AS NEEDED. BASED PAST EXPERIENCE,
MAIN EMPHASIS WILL CONTINUE BE ON GATEHOUSE.

2. PERMAPS CONFUSION RE NUMBER CAMERA OPERATORS. cag(leo ey
LIONION-2 PRESENCE IN APARTMENT, TO CLEAR UP ANY POSSIBLE WRONG
IMPRESSION, SEH TOO OLD AND HAS RATHER POOR EYESIGHT TO BE FULL-
TIME “SEPARATE OPERATOR", ALTHOUGH SHE CAN HELP OUT IN PINCH WITH
CAMERA WHEN LIONION-! NOT THERE OR VERY RARE OCCASION WHEN

SIMULTAKEOUS COVERAGE NEEDED.
3. THUS, RESTATING REQUEST IN SLIGHTLY DIFFERENT TERMS,

Lut

WE WISH TERMINATE PULSE CAMERA AND CONTINUE MANNED COVERAGE USING «

0 -61FaS

Pal
Bal 13 C4 CF

SECRET


he

CLASSIFIED MEssace ——_ToTaL Copies ROUTING ANDO MyITIALS. SRE BY
pel S _ Sua Mae oe meres see

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

beaver

PAGE 2 MEXICO CITY 1677 SECRET

CPERATOR. AND 7OR RENT NEW OBSERVATION POST WHICH WE FEEL ENTIRELY -

UNJUSTIFIED CONSIDERENG MODEST CP AND INTEL VALUE OF END PRODUCT.
A. FILE 50-6-12a/5,

SECRET



nWH/I/®
ae 6924 A/ GABA

ARLE SECRETARIAT OLSETUINATION Clio Gnome Cleenan ro. oman Qhrnceco

VA nce » | ine es cs su no.

Sonn te — ome
i wor Elum, Rif An Go, C1

[eisseiilestioay ‘Viste and tin Wied

SECRET’

to f MEXICO CITY ~ : 012 52206

CLionron ) ; a
REFS: A. DIRECTOR 36226

B. MEXICO CITY 1393 (IN 43570)

1. ACCORDING TO RAULERSON, eet PLANS: anion LION IO;
: NIMVELUIEG
[f PULSE CAMERA COVERAGE CONSULATE wrrd sanven ciiuzrd’ Coveit a eel

SIMILAR LIONION/1 OF MAIN GATE. ON THIS BASIS STATION AUTHORIZED
REMOVE LIONION PULSE. CAMERA,

- oad 2. PLEASE ADVISE.

: 3. FILE: 50-6-122/3,

: : END OF MESSAGE

i
y, Wy.
4 liam V.\ Broe crs
a c/WHD y of H/1
ya €S conv / on Let eF
: is Fi COOROINATING OFFICERS. :
| erties __ RELEASING OFFICER S-E-C-R-E-T ae ie elect aumuenricaaina

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED. con ne,



I related.

8, The LIONION pulse eanera wan discussed
to the section the Story of the Bureau's involv nt or
Possible utilization in the take that was realized fyoi. the
pulse camera, The Station, honevex, catd that a hand canern
ranned by an agent would bvoyide tho w {function with nore
detailed information and would be much less costly. Ac~
cordingly, Headquarters will send a eable to loxico City
coneuryang with their propesal to teri:inate the LiCnioy
pulse cancra operation. The LIONION operation tg handled by
Cybulski.

wveillance, The manual enuera will
fchoune to cover the

dec

16. Photo &
retin in the

The Statiow p: also thicugh Linis
and Merida to do sone spot photography for short periods
of tine for identification purposes,

(SOURCE: RAWLERSON'S TDY Notes - September 1969;
File: 50-120-13) ~


CABLE Sec! eld Cittentnation & * Suasiineowrseie

Sainte A/ SECRET |

(her Filled in)" =e
ween Ova ne

CLAEREY Yo c8 Pit Ke,
ee

sonnet coor Pumas Jans

gue a ons Once ne mw Genes

Teton oa

SECRET 130011Z SEP 69 CITE MEXICO CITY 1395 )
7 Cree

DIRECTOR
——

CLIONION ) .

REF DIRECTOR 36226 eid 43570

Io  FOLL INFO IN REPLY REF:
. Ao IT NOT PRESENTLY POSSIBLE HAVE LIONIOR-! COVER BOTH

MAIN TARGET. AND CONSULATE DUE PRESENCE PULSE CAMERA AND MANWER
IN WHICH WINDOW MASKED, - VERE PULSE CAMERA REMCVED CONSULATE
1S FRO ROO? ADUACENT To ROOM FROM WHICH MAIN TARGET COVERED. arena

IT IMPOSSIBLE HAVE LIONION-1 SIMULTANEOUSLY COVER BOTH TARGETS yy |
- B. AS MATTER REGUASS PRACTIVE, LIONION-1 TAXES PHOTOS AB

ALL PERSONS OF INTEREST yHO GO FROM MAIN GATE TO CONSULATE.

PHOTO COVERAGE IS FROM ‘SAIN GATE VANTAGE POINT, LLONION-1

UNABLE SEE THEM ENTER/DEPART CONSULATE,
€. SINCE LIONION-1 HAS NOT PHYSICALLY COVESED CONSULATE

TARGET FOR PROLONGED PERIOD IN SOME TINE, IT NOT POSSIBLE GIVE
FIRM PERCENTAGE OF CONSULATE VISITGRS PHOTOGRAPKES sy LIOKrON- Ly
BUT IT STATION FEELING HOST FiRST TIME VisiToORS 89 Tu MAIN. GATE

o
= FIRST, THis oie IS ENTRANCE TO BOTH SONSULATE ANi > exsassé, THEY
L. anc
eee “4 i
sy, 5 tom CEE ge a
SECRET
*s.
oe

oer ae


Ee es ee

CaBLe SECRETARIAT OiSsemiNATION  CLassinieo Message. Torat Copies outing AMOrOR SHtALS-AEEN BY

SECRET wt.
(When Filled Ia). Seo

Rfenosuctiowsr twa core eaonnsteg [ef ————-—J
woe Cvs One tH 75 Le

ean ree Le éa MH "69
pate ro cemmeneg gD

an

ems a a,

Teton we

» PAGE 2 MEXICO-CITY 1393 SECRET :
THEN SENT ‘FROM MAIN GATE TO CONSULATE. ONLY REGULAR VISITORS

USUALLY “AWARE LOCATION CONSULAR ENTRANCE. ACCORDING LIEBVOY,
IT NOT REGULAR PRACTICE EMBASSY/CONSULATE OFFICERS INSTRUCT
VISITORS LOCATION THIS ENTRANCE. .

2. ONCE PULSE CAMERA (WHICH VERY BULY ITEM) REMOVED,
STATION PLANS EXPLORE DIFFERENT MEANS AUGMENTING LIONION-1
ABILITY COVER CONSULATE WITHOUT SERIOUSLY DETRACTING FROM PRESENT
VALUABLE GATEHOUSE COVERAGE. WILL ADVISE-FURTHER THIS POINT WHEN
STUDY COMPLETED.

Se FILE 50~6-122/3,
SECRE T 7 ; -



_~

cei tateamesaids PPeren susuce rors cones DP Ebihirons avaiee yw
SaeSESTREnTTS fi SECRET w= LL 7:

sree

[When Fatied ts pare HI
aie 3
bau uaSUnEuEUEEBEEE="——-unsnauasSuee"""—YSURSeEnERES ODUCT HON OF THis CX b—
sovance core i) ante [] siorreo iar REESE Lo
i a Pea (ees eoee errr prmannonseaaanay
onsey oy oot e | nk wo Oar to seer oxsteoy Gua ae
ast ms
Es Donncore nee ea oy eicd blurs Fle SDE - int

Oe tee te eee

SECRET O722472 AUG 69 CITE MEXICO CITY 1t52

DIRECTOR Theo 6 18170
mn

LIONION
1. IN ATTEMPT ELIMINATE MARGINAL OPS, STATION INTENDS |

TERMINATE LIONION-1 PULSE CAMERA COVERAGE EFFECTIVE 1 SEPTENSER
UNLESS HQS INDICATES IT CONSIDERS PRODUCT OF SUFFICIENT VALUE .

TO WARRANT RETENTION. . STATION PRESENTLY OBTAINS MANY PICTURES

OF LIRING CONSULATE VISITORS SINCE MOST FIRST-TIME LIRING VISITORS
TRY ENTER THROUGH MAIN GATE WHICH PRINARY TARGET LIONION PHOTO
COVERAGE. ALSO MANY CONSULATE VISITORS LATER PHOTOGRAPHED AT
AIRPORT. IT NOT POSSIBLE HAVE LIONION-{ COVER BOTH ENTRANCES

i

" SIMULTANEOUSLY, BUT HE ABLE MOVE EQUIPMENT TO COVER CONSULATE UF

NEED ARISES.—--—.

af FILE 50-6-122/3, I
: ge
SECRET 1 yan’

e oy?

ale

SECRET



ATCH a OO ase GPerTEirpe egreravars :
q € | -_SECRET : aaeri9 tor peenG

Chief, Wi Division |X _ feo nouime mano
ox aus onse
: a Jaw nce wots
aa Y a a
Chief of Station, sextco city” ‘ys _lwetore_

RUNES TIOSTO%, Operat lonal
HigagON Progress Report, 1 April through 30 June 1969

romnriad
Action Required: Comments, paragraph 6b
Referenco + HMMA-37024, 25 april 1969

BACKGROUND

1. The LIONION Project provides a fixed photographic
surveillance of LIRING and a base for the radio dispatch of
the LIEMBRACE surveillance team. The basehouse is manned
by LIONION=1 and LIONLON-2, who have Operated as a team against
the LIRING target for more than six years,

OPERATIONAL DEV ELOPMENTS
AL DEVELOPMENTS,

2. Operational Meetin, 8. LIONION-1 and the undersigned
meet at least once each week to exchange the results of the
week's activity and new requirements. Additional meetings
are held on the average of twice a month to levy special
requirements, The answers to these and other regular require-
ments ure frequently reported to the Station by LIONION-1
telephonically using a prearranged code.

Continued.......e.ye..c cece eee

Distribution:
Orig & 2.- C/WHD

ih RARER TO Ci a ae TR a crs
HMMA"- 37510 | 17 July i969
— :

Gisonaion
SEC



CONTINUATION OF rain i
DISPATCH d

i
|
|

phic coveraye lof

Piotograpkic. Regular photoy
LIRING was suspesded from 4 through 2 1969, during which

pertod LIONION=1 took a vacation in Buro; Sineé he had not
had a regular vacation in more than five years, and because
the nature of his work requires him to remain behind tho
camera in a small closet in the baschouse, the Station!
considered it important that he leave his'work and relax for
~ A while. | LIONION-2 originally requested a five-week vacation
which the Statton would have willingly granted if the LIONION
operation could have been continued during that period |by
someone, else; but LIONION-1 reported that, while his mother:
was able to take his place for short periods of timo during
“the day, the responsibility and-long hours would be too much
fora person of her axe find bad eyesight for an extended
‘period of timo. The Station considered it unwise to have a
Substitute..take over during LIONION-1's absence. tle agreed
to take.a thiree-wees tour of Europe this year, and he will
be Allowed to’ take-adother three weeks. next year if ho wishes.
Station financial assistance to LIONION-1 to aid in defray ing
the cost ofa second air flight to Europe is discussed tinder
FINANCES below. Erefxency contact arrangemcats were made
between LIONION-2 and the undersigned to pass any priority
requirements which night arise during LIONION-1's absende.
LIONION"2. vomained at the Listening Post during the entire
period in order not to leave ‘tle basehouse equipment unguarded.
Except for the lack of coverage during these two weeks, ‘there
were no significant changes in the photographic coverage! of
LIRING during the reporting period. i

4, Audio ~LISANPAN/DOG. As reported in paragraph! D2
of reference, LYONION=I Live-monitored the LISAMPAN/DOG
traffic from 0800 to. 1730 hours daily. when he left for
Evrope on 4 May 19% the carrier current transmission of this

traffic. from LISAMPAX’LISASH to the LIONION~1.basehouse was
discontinued, [t was decided to let LISAMPAN-1 record various
portions of this traffic during the two-week absence of |
LIONION-1 for evaluation by Richard C.-HABOUSH, ‘The purpose
was-to determine whether continued recording by cither

“LISAMPAN=1 or LIONION-1 would be merited by the information
obtained. As previously reported (MEXICO CITY-0191 and
HMMA~37166), LISAMPAY,"DOG lost on either 6 or 7 May 1969.5
AS a result, LIONION-T i aved no audio since his return
from Europe on 25 way 1969. After the loss of” LISAMPAN/DOG,
the Station considered runoing a straight tap to the LIONION-1
basehouse, but decided that the security risk was too great
particularly in view of the fact that the target LIRING line
is already monitored by LIENVOY,

\

5. iiscellaneous, During the Station's casing of the
Fesidence oF Chief, LIRING in May and June 1969' to determine
the feasibility of mounting an audio operation against that
target, LIONTON-1 extended his coverage of the LIRING target
beyond his usual closing hour of 1730 until 0130, The purpose
of this extended coveragé was’ to monitor the activities of
certain LIRING personzel and establish their routine pattern
of activity in preparation for a possible entry: into Chie?
LIRING's residence. - This casing was discontinued on 4 June
when it was determined that the residence was under apparent
protective surveillance, The duration of the extended coverage
by LIONION-1 was not. long enough to establish, the regular |
routine of the target. LIRING staffers, H

vse Pasvious EOrION.



CONTINUATION OF i
DISPATCH i

PRODUCTION : {
i

6. Photographic, : i i
eraser i

1. In line with the Station's desire to stress
Guaiity over quantity, the statistical breakdown)
s59f-the LIONION photographic production has been
disccatinued. production during May dropped notice-
ably due to LIONION-I's European vacation, Photo-
graphic. production 1s usually greatost on the days»
of flights-arriving from PBRUMEN,

b... The Station is unaware of the uso made, by

Headquarters of tho fiim from the pulse camera which

: is’ regularly forwarded by the Station, While the
Gost of this operation is minimal, and it requires
only'a limited expenditure of time on the part of. .
LIONION=1 and Station personnel, the presence of the
pulso’camera itself is a problem.. As Headquarters
ds aware, it is large and difficult to disassemble.
Subsequont to the loss of LISAMPAN audio operations,
the Station removed all audio cquipment and associated
WOACRE material from the LIONION-1 basehouse, leaving
him only with commercial photographic equipment, |
The one exception to this is the pulse camera. The
Station would apprectate Headquarters’ comments on
the use and value of the take from the pulse canera. ' |

{

SECURITY

7. The only incident during the recording period which
had a bearing on the secuiity of the LIONION operation. was
the loss of LISAMPAN/DOG. AS far as the Station can determine,
the carrier current transmitter was not in operation at ithe
time ‘the countermeasure seeps were being conducted in the
vicinity of DOG. Since this-was the only connection between
LIONION and LISAMPAN, the Station does not feel that LIONION
could have ‘been compromised. ..The entire question of the damage
resulting from the. loss of the LISAMPAN operations is under
Study and will shortly be the subject of a separate dispatch.

1
FINANCES

8. During the reporting ‘period, routine LIONION expend-
{tures amounted to $22,701.00 IN (US$1,816.08), Tn addition,
LIONION-1 was given a gift of US$280.00 prior to his departure
for iurope on 4 May. Since LIONION-1's request for five |
weeks leave.could not be’ approved for operational reasons,
he was given the gift to help finance the air fare for a
second trip to Europe in a year or go if he wants to complete.
hiS original plans.

PLANS :

9. The Station does not anticipate any significant |
changes in LIONION operations for the next quarter,

separ ca aie ;
LoL i
AKE.

for John A, PROBERT

'
1
i

CLASSIFICATION zs
FORM

+ T
fag) S00. vssenewous somiow. | SECRET | eomniea | gots



hich: | aeeee

Division __

“|

LO: 10x Progress Report, April through 30 September 1968 _

Action Required: FYI

Reference : HNMA-34525, 25 April 1968
BACKGROUND
qe 1. The LIONION: Project is ‘a fixed photographic surveil-

lance capability of LIRING, a base for the radio dispatch of
the LIEMBRACE Surveillance Team, and a listening post (LP) for
LISAMPAN/BAKER and LISAMPAN/DOG. The basehouse is manned by

» who are fully qualified to operate
all of the technical equipment installed in the basehouse.
This team hasoperated under this Project for nearly six years.

OPERATIONAL DEVELOPMENTS

2. Operational Meetings. The Case Officer and LIONION-1
-meet regularly at the beginning of each week and subsequently
when the circumstances demand. LION{ON-1 reports telephonically
frequently fulfilling “Watchlist” obligations. During the
temporary absence of the Case Officer during September,
LIONION=1 was handled by Walter C, CORNBURY (with whom he is
familiar) and Gerald -D, FAHLANGER.

3, Phot: aphic There were no Significant changes in
the photographic coverage of LIRING during the reporting period.
iE Continued............ pecseeerreer eres -
Distribution:
Orig & 2 - C/WHD .
os cory -6-12.9/3
sar aeiRTNCE TO TSU NSES MO RATT a 7 eee
HMMA - 35683 October 1968

CaSTaTOW

SECRET 50-6-122/3



CONTINUATION OF i
DISPATCH t

SECRET

eral. The singular technical problem.
od under review concerned LISAMPAN/ BAKER.
Lowis able to activate BAKER regularly every

ae
tig Le pi
Though LIONIO! x
morning, the BAKER ling Would then deactivate mysteriously,

du

only to reactivate after several attempts. The first’ serious
ancidént.of this nature occurred on 5S April, and after con-
sultation.with the WOACRE representative, Walter W. CORNBURY
LIONION-1 was instructed to terminate all attempts to activate
“BAKER over the ensuing weekend. The Station checked to |
determine t LIRING had-no technical inspectors visiting,
that preceding week as a security measure and found no evidence
that this was the case. On 8 April, LIONION-1 successfully
activated BAKER, An inspection of the cquiptent by CORNBURY
on 1i April produced ho satisfactory explanation for this j :
phénomenon.- At, this time, CORNBURY began a compilation ‘of:
facts,2Statistics, and. observations concerning the behavior
pattern of BAKER asa basis for determining what corrective
action could be taken. Between 13 and 17 August, a WOACRE
representative from Panama City visited the Station’and spent
several days at the LIONION Basehouse conducting various tests.
The. outcome of that study resulted in a more regular behavior,
pattern and better understanding of the technical difficulties
surrounding BAKER, ~The technical aspects of this study have
already been reported and will be commented on in the LISAMPAN
Progress Report of the same period. At this writing, BAKER
does not present any of the technical mysteries nor the
interrupted service that marked its’ initial operation.

8. Audio = LISAMPAN/DOG. On 10 April 1968, Walter WJ
CORNBURY installed a carricr current transmitter in LISAMPAN/
LISASH for the transmission of LISAMPAN/DOG to the LIONION
Basehouse. On 11 April 1968, CORNBUKY then installed a carrier
current receiver in the LIONION Basehouse after several months
of efforts to achieve this hook-up. ‘The objective of this
operation was to give LIONION-1 "ear gatehouse of
LIRING which Would assist him in identifying callers whom he
photographs, This facility has proven very worthwhile. © Co-
incidentally,- the live-monitoring of DOG by LIONION-1 has |
proven most useful operationally since LIONION-1 has reported
most timely on subjects of high interest to the Station. A
fuller report of this operation will be covered in the LISAMPAN
Progress Report for the same period. \-

6. AMGIFT-1. On 13 August 1968, AMGIFT-1, an AMEDIT-
trained transcriber from JMCOBRA, arrived at the Station. lis
task was to transcribe LISAMPAN/BAKER, the most, important and
productive of the LISAMPAN installations. LIONION-1 was
introduced to ANGIFT-1, under alias, and assisted in the
latter's handling since LIONI 1 had been serving as the LP
operator for BAKER. ANGIFT-1's transcriptions were very good —
the best effort to date - and coupled with LIONION-1's intimate
knoyledge of LIRING, they made a very good team.’ LIONION-1
and AMGIFT-1 met several times cach week to enable LIONION-1
to provide ANGIFT-] with important background information on
LIRING. Unfortunately, AMGIFT-1's chronic obsession with what.
turned out to be notional surveillance led to his return to;
JMCOBRA prematurely without any jeopardy to either of the |}
operations. :

it
i

During ‘the period under review,
Station basic information on LIRING
For example: |

7.

LIONION:
which was incorporated into Stution studies.

a. Physical target study of LIRING, HMMA-35228,
9 August 1968. i

b. Surveillance of LIRING in support of a
yecruitment attempt, MMMA-35276, 19 August 1968.



sella anes |

CONTINUA

pista!

iw

Physical target study of LIRING, 30 August

Individual Photos:

April - A478 Juno - 461 August = 505
y = 369 July - 672 September -. 412

The first three months of the reporting period nearly
equaied the production figures of the previous
yeperting period but rose sharply in July and August
because of PBRUNEN celebrations and local student
disturbances, LIONION-1's target in this phase of
the operation: remains the same; suspect WOLADY
visitors, visiting PBRUMENers, and the few others

he has not.seen beforg who do not fall in the fore-
going categories.

b. Impulse Production, LIONION-1 produced
5,900 feet of film during the reporting period. The
Station continues to forward the film to Ileadquarters
“for development and processing.

9. cellaneow Because LIONI' 1 live-monitors
LISAMPAN, ER and LISAMPAN/DOG, the Station received timely

reporting on the followin,

2. PBRUMEN offer of asylum to Antonio ARGUEDAS,
ex-Bolivian Minister of Interior.

b. The use of LIRING as a mall channel in
support of PBRUNEN clandestine operations in Latin
Amerien.

c. The initiation of a new television station
in PSRUMEN,

d. Arrival and departure of LIRING employees,
PCS or TDY.

e@. LIRING reaction to the detention by the
LITENPOs of an AMBASSOON eniployee.
SECURITY

10. There have been no known incidents during the
reporting period which adversely affected the security of this
operation or of its personnel.

11. Though LIONION-1 and LIONION-2 surmise that LISAMPAN/
DOG is controlled by another baschouse, they have not been
briefed that this is the case nor have ‘they made any inquiries.

1

12, The unusual behavior of AMGIFT-1 affected LIONIO:
measurably, Dut once LIONION-1 was assured that ANGIFT-1 was
not under surveillance he regained his composure.

13. Because LIONION-1 live-monitors LISAMPAN/BAKER and
DOG an increased ‘measure of security has been added to the
LISAMPAN operation not previously possible because of the lack
of timely reporting frum ihe LISAS! LP cpexators.

: é eas



CONTINUATION OF “— ie
OISPATCH B SECRET

ld. During the reporting period, LIONION-1 was given a
raise in his salary effective 1L October 1968,

is. oukstown of Expenditures:

vies: LIONION-1 and LLONION-2
Reul; Two Satesites
Misc. Operational Expenses

May. :
Salaries: LIONLON-1 and LIONION-2 $6475.00 MN
Rent: Two Safesites 1750.00
Misc. Operational Expenses 723.90

$8948 -90 MN

June
“Salaries: LIONION21 and LIONION-2 $6475.00 MN
Rent: Two Safesites 1750.00
Misc. Operational Expenses 10

July

Salaries: LIONION-1 and LIONION-2 $6475.00 MN
Rent: Two Safesites 1750.00
Mise. Operational Expenses 309.75
S857.
August
Salaries; LIONION-1 and LIONION-2 $6175.00 MN
Rent:. Tyo Safesites 1750,00
Mise. Operational Expenses
MN
Septembe!
: LIONION-1 and LIONION-2 $6475.00 MN
Rent: ‘Iwo Safesites 1750.00
Mise. Operational Expenses 221.50

$8446.50

Quarterly Costs: Last quarter FY 1968 - $26,406.20 MN
First quarter FY 1969 - $26,685.65 MN

PLANS

16. The Station does not anticipate any unusual changes
in the LIONION operation for the ensuing period,

Ut, MOE

cS

rs CCe reno
HEE. CURTIS

SECRET



TaseeNAT

NCRET/B

Te
q wid AT I
ual wasuto #08 watung

Chief, WH Division : }_X_fra orang excwato
ate, ONLY QUALIFIED DESK

Chief of Station, JMCOBRA [CAN JUDGE INDUENG
iy ae —— |

Chief of Station, Mexico catya ceor
co

PBRUMEN/Physical Target Study of tho Cuban Embassy, Mexico City

caw atau

witaads
Action Required: FYI

Reference : HMMA~35228, 9 August 1968
c i

3, LIONION-2 has provided the following information on
the Cuban Babassy compound as a supplement to reference
dispatch. The DOI is 26 August 1963,

2, Gates and entrances to the compound;

a. Gate for. entry of cars on Francisco Marquez,
This gate is always closed, and 1s opened only to
permit cars to enter or leave.

b. Next to this ontrance is a gate where people
can enter the compound. There is a doorboll at
this gate which rings in the Gatehouso. This Gate~
house is manned 24 hours a day.

c. There is a large gate on Calzada Tacubaya
which is always locked.

d, There is a small entrance on Zamora that
le is always closed.

e. The Consulate entrance on the corner of
Francisco Marquez and Zanora is open from 10:00 a.m,
to 2:00 p.m.

CONTADUCK. . ces eee eteeeeecerane

Distribution:
orig & 2 - C/WHD
2 = COS, JMCOBRA

3 gepy 50-F9-/2

ase HTTRENE TO TEESATGN SVMSOT AND ROMETR Dati

|

September 1968

| ine | i ty
SECRET/RYBAT INSEE" 150-9-12

»


eed ‘|

peTUNT RONEN Fer ce) 1
DISPATCH WA = 35365

There are doy

i which a the day, but which are let loose
during the night. There are also floodlights which illuminate
the grounds during the night.

There are two policezex on foot
hours a day. re is also
Sometimes this car parks in

it merely checks in
the policeren usually
of the Bxbassy on
themselves from tho

a. Police protectio
“who patrol around the Bub:
‘a patrol car around. the area.
front of the building and at other times
with the foot patrol men, Late at night
fet into one of the cars parked in front
Francisco Marquez to sleep or. to protect
rain or. cold.

: 5._-Traffie + fic slows down after 10:00 p.m.
However; Tacubaya is a main route with several bus lines and
taxis. This ‘traffic continues all night, and considering the
hour, this stréct would always Nave more than usual amoual of
traffic. Many cars are parked on the street all night in
this general arca. On Francisco Marquez the cars do act park 5
on the Embassy side of the divided street, but onthe other

side,

6, Activity within the compound:

a, Lights are observed in the Consulate and
Comercial offices until around 3:00 p.m. and
Sionaily later, but not all night. On the

oc
third floor of the Babassy, which has living quarters,
i the lights are on until 11:00 or 1 0 p.m.

-, ‘b, The-officers often return late, after what
appears’ to be their departure at COB. They generally
do not remain long on these late entries and leave

again, Cars ¢ome and go often during the late hours, :

7. Duty:

The fubassy officers pull duty periodically.
There is always an officer on duty all night besides
the lower-echelon man manning the Gatehouse.

b. The man at the Gatchouse usually has soncone
with him--another employee or his wifo--until about
midnight, apparently to keep him company and listen
to the radio.

8. Service:

a: The Babassy has an emergency source of power.
If the electricity in the area is cut off (which is
hot uncommon in Mexico City for short periods), the
Bubassy continues to have power--although it appears

this is limited.

: b. ,The small gas tanks used by the Enbassy are
filled once or twice a month by the Compania Mexicana
de Gas Combustible, S.A.

if a
Clee C fe rrdaint,
for Willard C. CURTIS

i 1 aSTETTE 7 es
[584° sq use rrevoes cowron SECRET/RYBAT {IB eerie eras 3a



“aan

[ iSPATCH [|  svceer

LLONION

Fiowieto wKINC

\

BACKGROUND

1. LIONION provides WOFIRM with a fixed photographic surveillance
capability of LIRING, a base-for the radio dispatch of the LLEMBRACE
Surveillance Team, and a Listening Post (LP) for LISAMPAN/DOG and
BAKER, The basehouse is manned by LIONION-1 and LIONION-2, both
fully qualified to handle all of the equipment installed in tho site,
This team has operated the sume: basenouse for photographic sur-
veillance of LIRING for nearly #1x years,

t

ngs. The Case Officer and LIONION-1 meet
% ot every week und subsequently when the

OPERATIONAL DEVELOPMENTS

2. Operational
regularly at the beginn
circumstances demand.

3. Audio, During this reporting period, the WOACRE Re}
tive, Waiter W, CORNBURY, successfully activated ‘3
tho LIONION baschouse. CORNBURY has alsc been successful in running
LISAMPAN/DOG from LISAMPAN/LISASH to. the LIONLON bas The
two audio installatioms thus providé LIONION-] with a greater capa~
bility to identity visitors to LIRING (through live monitoring) and
thus ‘affix names to photographs he takes, Previously, the identifi-=
|. cation of visitors to LIRING required considerable time and effort

but in the short period of LIONION's audio capability this effort
has decreased measurably. See HMMA-31292, 14 Narch 1968, LISAMPAN/
DOG was successfully retransmitted to LIONION on 11 April 1968,

PRODUCTION

4. Photographic Aspects The following is a statistical break
down of TrONfONs 'S photographic production:

(CONTINUED)

Distribution:
Orig ea ~ C/WHD

Rais RIT RENCE TO

a

Oise aia MBO AN UMBIE

HMMA~34525 | 25 April 1968

| “CaancaTOM Twos fit wun

SECRET Ul 50-6-122/1



|

CONTINUATION OF |

aa
Disparcn 1 s | * nyws~24sas

a.

January

February -
March = 430
TOTAL 1372

se from the previous reporting period of
one, the familfarity LIONTION-1 has

ti
‘This productton is.a decr
ever 400 photos. but it reflect

developed with the constant stream of LIRING visitors, and two, a

sis on targets, d.e., LIONION-1 now concerns himself with
itors, visiting PBRUNEX_ERS, and the few others
n the above categories.

doempha
suspect PBPRIME:v
he has not seen before who do not fall

b, . Impulse Production. During the reporting period the
LLONION Operation produced 2,700 feet of film, This film had pre-
viously been processed by Headquarters but per HMMW-16106, 29 January
1968 (at our suggestion: in JINMA-33841, 17 January 1968), the film was
sent to JNWAVE for processing by the-ANOTS, After nearly a month,
JMWAVE reported that the AMOTS were unable to handle this task
because of the lack of facilities and qualified technicians, the
inordinate amount of time necessary to process: it, and the fact that
the exploitation of the take would require such broad dissemination
within and without che AMOT Organization as to jeopardize the security
of the LIONION Operation (see UFGT-21267, 13 February 1968), In view
of this, Headquarters decided that it vould renew the processing of
the film (seo HMMW-16194, 7 Mareh 1968),

tizens travelling to PDRUMEN
ance, LIONION
sited LIRING

5. LIONION' s reporting on WOLADY c
and/or visiting LIRING has been very useful. . In one in
was instrumental in proving that an LNERGO double agent

SECURITY

6. There have been no known incidents during the reporting period
which adversely aftected the security of this Operatiorfind its
personnel.

7, LIONION-1 and 2 lave been told nothing about the LISAMPAN/
LISASH basehouse from where LISAMPAN/DOG is retransmitted, nor how
this source of information operates, LIONION-1 has speculated on a
number of occasions about the technical difficulties he oncountors
from. time to time which the Station attributed to a spheric and
technical peculiarities of Mexico City, On the other end, LISAMPAN-1
and 2 have not been informed that DOG is being retransmitted. For
the sake of compartmentation, it was decided to maintain this posi-
tion and not to encourage speculation on the part of either group.
The technical aspects of this decision will be covered in the Progress
Report of the LISAMPAN Operation,

FINANCES
JANUARY
Salaries: LIONION=1 and LIONION~2 $6475.00 MN

Rent: ~two Safesites 1750.00 MN

Misc. Operational Expen MN
MN

FEBRUARY
Salaries: LIONION-1 and LIONION-2 00 iN
Rent: Two Safesites 1750.00 MN
596.90 M!

Misc, Operational Expenses
SS

31.90 MN



CONTINUATION OF
DisParciy H

LIONION~}
‘O Salesitey

and LIONtoN-2
Mise. Operational Expenses a

$6475.00 uy
1750.00

858.25
QUARTERLY Costs (41 Mexican Pesos)

8. The Station docs not anticipate any changes
Operation for the ensuing Period except to Submit LIONION.
to some traing K in the handling. i
Lisi tid BAKER. . 7

and interpretatiy

Fite Surat _i8 Possible, owever, that the
pow used by LIONTON@] may, at a latop da te,--be-tran,
fo an LP recentiy acquired by the engage tn £
vedidance of. then

Station to
ewly acquired Chicg, LIRING ||

residency of

ESE PREVIONS Lonion,



Tenncaiew

SECRET

4

Chief, WH/COoG

Chief of Sta
aan PBR
Sue

Action Required: FYI

Reference  HMMA-33320, 19 October 1967 pena,

1: . Project Background: LIONION provides WOFIRM with i
fixed photographic surveillance of LIRING as well ac ‘a base i
for the radio dispatch of the LIEMBRACE Surveliiates Team.

The safesite is manned by LIONION-1 and LIONION-2, both fully
{rained in the photoxraphic equipment utilized in’ this
installation. The reference, covering the period | July

through 30 September 1967, 18 the last progress report for
this project.

2. Operational Developments:

A. Introduction of new Case Officer. on

j December 1967, Matthew DINGLEY introdaced Oliver
De CIMOCH to LIONION-1 as Lhe new ‘Case Officer for
this operation. All previous communications plans

were continued pending CINOCH's familiarization
righ textco City - an ‘offer readily accepted by
LIONION-1.

* Continued.

Distribution:
Orig & 2 - C/iHD a
: Vi C/EU/COG feeTe oo HPrye

65 copy SG -2-4QHB

Coss REFERENCE TO TDSPAPCH ECE AMD AUMaER

: | HMNA - 33804

Cr a
H i
SECRET} ©

10 January 1968
a

+ 50-6-12273



UMMA - 33804

CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH SECRE

B. Qperational meetings. During the reporting |

period operational meetings were held with LIONION-1
on a Weekly basis. Meetings were held in either

the LIONION safchouse (hot the LP) or in car pickups.
The frequent changes of mecting sites resulted in
no security problems. . é

C. Audio -for-LIONION. Heretofore, LIONION has
provided nothing more than photographs which, though |
extremely useful, have been wanting Since a Labor tous |
effort on the Station's part has been réquired to
complete the identification of those photographed. |

, Fhe Station, therefore, plans to link LIONION to
LISAMPAN/DOG, which will improve the situation fl
-* + | markedly: More research, however, will be needed i
before this can become reality. : j

3 Production: The LIONION Project produced: 1794 individual
photographs and 3500 feet of pulse camera film during the | a
period. Furthermore, LIONION-1's log of. all persons entering’
and leaving LIRING has been most useful, as has been the log
of all’ vehicles and their iicenses. | LIONION-1's attention
to detail, organization, and accuracy’ has been exemplary.
During this period he identified three new employees. The |
photos of the people were shown to LITAMIL-7- for confirmation
and to obtain names and background information. LIONION-1 |
will continue to make strip prints of all the persons entering
and exiting LIRING, but his output of enlarged prints will be
cut back in-view of Ais familiarity with LIRING and its j
personnel. This curtailment of print production (duplicative
for the most part) should not materially affect the operation's
coverage. LIONION-1 was apprehensive about this move but |
realizes that it provides him with more responsibility and
discretion re "blowups" within broad guidelines dictated by
the Station. The Station anticipates no problem with this
change.

: 4. Security: There have been no known incidents during
the reporting period which adversely aifected the security.
of this operation and its personnel.

5. Finances: ae
October
Salaries: LIONION-1, LIONION-2  $ 6475.00 MN 1
Rent: Two Safesites 1500.00 MN i
Miscedlaneous ‘Operational Expenses 1397.30 MN
$9372.30 MIN
November

LIONION-1, LIONION-2 S$ 6475.00 MN
Rent: Two Safesites 1500.00 MIN

Miscellaneous Operational Expenses 410.65
385.
December :

Salaries:  LIONION-1, LIONION-2  $ 6475.00 WW

Rent: Two Safesites Z 1500.00 MN

Miscellaneous Operational Expenses 1397.30 MIN

Xmas Bonuses (LIONION-1, -2) 6475.00_¥
$15847.30 WN

Quarterly Costs (in U.S. dollars) $2,688.42 us

cuagsin cane!

nn ye

wsemmenous roma |] SECRET



CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH

6.

There are no significant operational or

administrative changes planned for the ensuing period.

fot Cok NOL


DISPATCH 007 wat

Chie, Wil Division

ASHLO 108 nouns

uo inoneies
jowir quauao oe
can Oct nOnuNG

a

00.

Chief of Station, Mexico City . [exeoraat

aaa 7 -
+’ PBRUMEN/Operat ional/LLONION Progress: Report 1 July through 30. Septembe:
acim eeGaRTO wea

REFERENCE: -HMMA~32502, 12 July 1967

_ 1, PROJECT BACKGROUND AND. REPORTING

Project LIONION 4s a long-term operational support project designe
to provide. fixed photographic, technical, ard phystcal surveillance of
the PBRUMEN Embassy and Coasalate in Mexizo City. A corollary.
objective is to provide for a mechanism which can fulfill various . -
miscellaneous PBRUMEN support type requirements, The LIONION ba
house; which serves as the photographic base, an L/P and provide
vadlo-dispatching base for the LUEMBRACE surveillance team, cont
to be manned by LIONION-1 and LIONION-2, The last regularly scheduled
LIONION progress report, covering the period 1 April through 30 June
1967, was forwarded in reference,

2. AGENT CONTACT AND PERFORMANCE

During'the period under review, LIONION-1 was seen 18 times and
LIONION-2 on four occasions in regular operational meetings, Meetings
were held in the LIONION safehouse, in t Case Officer's home after
dark, in restaurants or in moving vehicles after street-corner pick-
ups. Other than the intentional rotation of meeting sites and times,
no changes were made in the LIONION communications systems.

As noted in reference, LIONION-1 was hospitalized for emergency
surgery to treat a perforated ulcer on 27 Juns. LIONION-1 did not
revover sufficiently to provide fulltime coverage untl1 mid-July, a
fact, given his conscientious nature, lowered his morale slightly.
However, after returning to fulltime work and receiving assurances
from the Case Officer, LIONION-1 perked-up considerably, Since that
time, LION{ON-1 has performed inthe exemplary manner which the Sta~
tion has come to expect of him, Other than cited above, thore have
been no agent handling, coatrol,- or morale problems daring the report=

ing period,
| RFT ; (CONTINUED)
Wicased toa asc
[see] oe cng eee

aca ~ aT mo waie on
HMMA-33320 i 19 October 1967 '
‘aisiiation cory
SECRET 50-6-122/3



CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH

ACCOMP LISKNEN’ 3S

a. General + Throughout the period unddr review, with the
exception of “the, period of LIONION-1's recuperation, this project
sre anted to provide (he Stittos with valuable photosraphic coverage
Of the project to provide an L/P for pending LESAMPAN instal-
dations to providing tateresting observations on target
personnel, eo ef who. © Of interest to the PBRUMEN Section's
recruitment program, :

“Statistically, LUONION provided 1520 individual photographs
(which: he processed hi. P1f) of persons and/or vehicles entering or
leaving the target Embassy as well as 2,500 feet of pulse camera’ film
Coverage of the Consulate (which ix fortarded to Headquarters for

processing).

Daring the period under roview, LIONION-1 obtained and furnishdd
a now safe apartment, which will be used for sensitive or lengthy
moctings with LURESORT-1 as well as LIOM{ON-1, This sate site has
been stocked with a.sufficient supply of food so as to allow two
persons to live there for at least three days, in the event the
Station ever neéds“a “cooling off" site for an agent or defector,

4. LIONION-1's spotting, observation and reporting proved ‘to’ be
extremely valuable in support of the Station's effort to identify and
wrap-up the local PBRUMEN subversive support apparat,

4, MISCELLANEOUS

a. Technical support - Tr early July, Walter W. CORNBURY accompa
nied Cornelius L. PEUVION to the LIONION baseho1se to inspect and’
repair the pulse camera (affectionately and with good reason called
the "monster" by the LIONIONS). In addition CORNBURY provided ore new
Jens for LIONION=1's printor/onlarger and the majority of the photo=
graphic supplies used in this operation,

be Security ~ There have been no known incidents during the
oe eke ne period saich adversely affected the security of this project
or the related personnel.

Coy pans ~ AS noted in reference, the Station plans to utilize
ETONEON-1 and LIONION-2 as L/P operators for a portion of the LUSAMPAN
PD Noccabee qaegt® anticipated that this L/P will bo in operation by
1 November 1967. Other than noted above, there ave no significant
operational or administrative changes planned for the ensuing period,

Willard C, CURTIS



tea mee
vice Oves Oro . it
; CLASSIFIED RESSAGE tort contrs 2D

CLASSIFY TO/PILE ROY

REPRODUCTION PRONISITED

oesraoy CD sre. a = [|
“Settow is F : — ul Wovance COFF 4 lant a0 ae

YF nw cory] iit ela ii |
mpi VY, G- ex Cr/Ops Fr

SECRET 142232 CITE MEXICO CITY 2131
DIRECTOR : Wid 612154
PERUMEN LION ION
REF MEXICO CITY 1933 07a ces¥7)

FULL PHOTO. COVERAGE LIRING REINITIATED 12 JULY,
SECRET.

Br crane an



Te

Chtet,. WHD ie

reer

so inns ang eequeLO

TROC SSG RCHON,

Juanes FOR sNOLHINA

ors

C/wH/Coe

loser ovstirico ors
Jean snot worKND

Tie

Chiof of Station, Mexico Cit, f

wsceorny

‘SOE PRRUMEN/Oporational /LIONION rogresa Report
“1 Aprtl through 30 June 1967

le

“AGTTOS REQUIRED - BEFERCRCES

Reference:

~ and LTONTON-2,

Distribution:
De chiet/wio

A, Wtn-31917, 27 April 1967

c,
D. MEXICO CITY-1!

REPORTING

PROJECT BACKGROUND

Project LIONION is a long-term operational support project decigned
to provide fixed photographic and physical surveillance of the PBRUMEN
tmbassy and Consulate in Mexico City as well as to fulfill miscellaneous

‘The LIONION base, which covers both
of the nbovo-cited targets and also provides a radio-dlspatching base
for the LIEMBRACE surveillance team, continues to be manned by LIONION-1
schoduled LICKION progress report, ,
covering the period 1 January through 31 March 1967, was forvanied

PBRUMIN support type requiremonta.

The last regularly

B, MEXICO CITY-1902, 23 June.1967
MEXICO CITY-1953, 28 June 1967
5, 29 June 1967

as reference A, while saliont interim developments were forwarded in

references B, through D,

AGENT COMPACT AND

changes were w

CS COPY,

a

continued...

Durlig, the perfod under review, LIONION-1 ao seen on 16 occasions
and LIONION-2 once by the undersigned in remilar, opernttonal meetings.
Other than intentional variations in mecting times and alte, no basic

nig in the LIONICN comminteations cystem.

"CRaEE REFERENCE TO

oar SH wR

Foaa - 32502 L

cate

32 July 1967

‘CLASSIFICATION

SECRE

HGS FILE NUMER

§0-6-122/3



| CONTINUATION OF | 2
DISPATCH i

Hot wtthet
eutvel Linnce 2

photo. pt

& down the
ge fora tyos
isaintied or Hidden in

mi coverace
stnee this
event ‘of

heapitalined for emergency
Wines BIONIOUS2's presence

conse pertod, cavernie of both
ft is entiet

Dente s

. b) Skettst

photogreviin of

§ individual
ns the target

@ Louse (vor whics LTCRIOK-2
bun deabiled Lo c

structed Lo Locate a neu

cs

2 exception of the Lnele
mere Rave been no known ineld
project or the parse

b) Plans -
plans to ubiline Lic!
of the LISA



en)
Ores Ore .
1 ra rite mo. CLASSIFICO MrssaGé
ne te te nO.
#100) net, ta asaven OD
a9.

ye

FURSON/ OMIT ROTTFIES 7

‘Ovanct COPY

issues ecorrrs Crores

SECRET 2g2320" cite MEXICO CITY 1933: °

Biseeron 28 Jun 67 100547,

MORNING 27 JUNE LIOWION-1 HOSPITALIZED FOR EMERGENCY SURGERY

Fae PERFORATED ULCER. ATTENDED DURING OPEPATION BY LIONION-2 WHO
TEL 28 JUNE SURGERY SUCCESSFUL AND L-t IN GOOD COND ITIOK,
STO COVERAGE OF LIRING SUSPENDED FoR 7:70 1@ DAYS, WILL ADVISE,
cRET

sees



~ Fo
Seer

SECRET

- Chief, WH Division : X_hrowseans:

ae fOSLY GuaLirigd OfsK
.__C/mi/cocs : y bce oe
ra a

= + Chief of Station, Mexico Cit: : [urceornw
tos suicr “ PBRUMEN/Operat fonal/LIONION Progress Report for the period
. 1_January through 31 March 1967 :

CT RS RO
REFERENCES: (A) HMMA-30996, 3 January 1967
(B) MEXICO CITY 0808, 23 March 1967 '

1. PROJECT BACKGROUND AND REPORTING
SROJECT BACKGROUND AND REPORTING

Project LIONION is long-term support type project designed
Primarily to provide fixed photographic and physical surveil—
lance of the PBRUMEN. Embassy and Consulate in Mexico City. The
LIONION’base; which covers both of the abeve-citod targets,
coatinues to be manned by LIONION~1 “and LIONION-2, The last
regularly scheduled Progress ‘report, covering the period through
December 1966 wag submitted as reference (A),

ia 2. AGENT conTact ‘
-. During the period under review, LIONION-1 was seen weekly
by the. undersigned ‘or Howard A, TRECKLER. In late January, the
Operational and administrative responsibilities for Project

neste LIONION were transfered from TRECKLER to Cornelius L. PEUVION,
No agent handling, control’ or admibistrative problems were.
encountored during the turn-over and none are anticipated during
the ensuing period, :

Distribution:
aeatyi
1 = C/Wi/cogs es >.

&S copy
SSSR TENS HN TS a
BMMA~31917 27 April 1967)
Saree oe
SECRET | 50-6~122/3



SECRET

DISPATCH

CONTINUATION OF H
i

3. AGENT PERFORMANCE AND MORALE

: :
Not withstanding the boring and difficuit nature of tris
operational ‘assignment, LIONION-1 continues to perform in an
excuplory wanner, \Saoject 18 indeed a liigniy mutivated agent

as indicated by his willingness to perform .this rather menial

task day-after day,'when, with his educational background he
undouvstedly could ‘obtain more interesting and more lucrative
‘employment, :In order to-alleviate the morale Problems cited in
‘paragraph 7-of reference, the Station assisted LIONION-1 in the
purchase of a new*engihe for his vehicle. This unexpected gesture
was greatly-appreciated by LIONION-1 and an immediate change for
the better in Subject's frame of-mind was noted,

4. ACCOMPLISHMENTS

i (a)" “Throughout the period under review, Project LIONION
continued’.to provide the Station with the invaluable photographic
coverage of the targets. In addition, LIONION~1 continued to
“provide interesting observations on the personalities and activ=
ites of the personnel working in tne target. After years of
observation, LIONION=-1 can virtually tell the frame of mind and
disposition of the regular inhabitants. LIONION-1's observations
on the Subject of reference (B) wero most valuable to the Station
in the planning of the. recruitment of this individual, In >
addition, LIONION-1 provided radio dispatching support during
thig recruitment operation; without which, the attempt would
have been virtually impossible.

(b) Statistically, LIONION-1 provided approximately 1600
individual photographs of persons entering and leaving the
target Kmbassy (which he'printed and developed himself) and
approximately 2100 feet of film coverage of the Consulate.

(c) There wore no- intelligence disseminations from this
operation during the reporting period, since a3 previously
described Project LIONION primarily a support type operation,

(4) Details have previously been submitted to Headquatters
concerning LIONION~i's support in the AMBEATLE operation.

5. PLANS

As noted in paragraph 14 of reference (A), Station plans to
utilize LIONION-1 and LIONION-2 as L/P operators in support of
the LISAMPAN operation, Other than this, there are no significant
operational or administrative changes planned for the ensuring

period,

ey Sy
ieee eaten dusseieet Or fs Teseecenat eas
for/Willard C, CURTIS

USE PREVICGS COLTON

ae



TO" : Director
Fedoral Bures: of Inveotigation
Attention; R=. S. J. Papich . a

FROM 1 ‘Deputy Directer for Plana
SUBJECT: 0 Visitors to t3e Cuban Enbasay, Mexico City

7

1966 the Cuban Eubassy, Mexico Clty vos visited by-the occupants
Gf a vehicle which bore Texas License plate DI-O-i\ (vnito figures
on grean). Tho vohicle vss identified as n 2-door Ford dalaxte.

2. Investigatioa revealod that this plate ves assiened to a
1966 Ford Galaxie ounai ty Hr. J. M. OBAMAS of 3604 Moonlight Strect,
Bl Paso, Texas.

3. Credit Ruresa aod Police checka vere negative. A review
of tha 1965 EX Paso City Birectory failed to cbow en edtress of
3604 Moonlight Ctrest. sazbers akip the 3500 and 3600 blocks and
ere from 3400 to 3700 resjectively. The umze J. Me GRANAS did not
oppear in the City Direstosy or in the 1966 El Peso Telephone Di+

rectory.
4, This Office had no Lnfomation on OWA.

5. The informaticn comained bereln is not to be disseminated
in whole or in part cutaiée your Burvau without prior approval of

} this Orfice.

j
:

i

iF

J 3

| 1. A-usually reitabie source reported that on 27 October
i

i

i

i

i

I

i

i

|

lessees CSCT-315/00232-67

! Date: 10 January 1967

BASIC : HMMA-30496, 10 Sevember 1966
PROJECT: LIONION

LIAISON;

FUE i

a3 COPY


CSCI-316/00232-67
WH/1/Jane Zerance/ pout

Distribution:
0&1 - Addressee

RI (50-6-122/4

CI/LEA :

CI/ PAA

ec = Wi/1/Hox

cc = Wi/1/Chrono

ee = WH/PO/A

ec + Mex/J. Zerance

@

Coordinated vith:
wH/coo/?T



H

SPATCH [a

_D

Rte ef Ration, Mexico City

core

water

PERG ‘i

ACHON QS wR

Action Required: FYI

Reference 4 12044-30496, 10 Novenber 1966 oe

ot
1. Tera cence plat FRC-353 "Wao assigns? to a 1966

~Odsmodile owned by 11a *KRRANDES of{141s Hils: Street, Houston,
Tams, ixrestigation dtoclosed that thio adiress is the current,

active leestion of on Oldaobile dealership. Tt vue indicated that

quite often, when a car io purchased fron a dealer on the installe :
“Rent ‘glen, the address civen for the registmtica is the dealer's

ediress; this done to insure thst the title registration is returned

to the desler, who rutaine it until the car is fully paid,

{2 Euston Credit Bureau files contained @ recor! on a John Be
SHERNARDSD, wife iliMda F., resident of 2115 Sverett Street, Itouston, TES
Be was exnlayed as a tile construct: Fr, ber Occupation vas

not shown. ef

3. Seuston Police hada recesd of a liilda 85 DEL, bora
4 September 1920 at Wallio, Texas, deseribal as a Noxican-Anerican,
S* 10", X45 lbs, brow eyen, black hair, who was arrested at tha
Preston Bete? {n Houston on 10 March 19h¢ on a prestitution charge.

3. Ths bouston City Directory Usted a Joln 3. HERNANDEZ,
wifo Rilta af the Evergit Street address ani a Listing for a
Nye, Hilda ESRNAMDEZ of 7614 Avemse K. No further infomation 1
reflected.

(Continued)

Distribution:
2 ~ COS, Nexico City

‘23 January 1967 __

[RR awe

| 50S} /

QaIGINATANG,

NSS" 53 se ermans comin

7 DISPATCH



CONTINUATION OF ! : fa
: OISPATCH |
tec eassnaetassansudtadsisist-ogisisd (cists ieeasisisisiell
i
| |
5. Thore were no Headquarters traces on either HERNANDEZ,
6+ Thto information 1 boing pasoed to EASA) Hoadquarters.
i
i Ca i
i !
i
i
i ;
{ t
i i
i !
i
. 1
i
|
|
i
\ 7
i
\
v = uassE aiatonseaine ae
i
f Sdq_eseeerwouseovnon, | srencs
t isusenennnanteivie Brstasssstaaiia


TeKeEs

[RAAT A INECIMS

xxe/

fro mcceys geo

7 CURLED OHS
eu et wORURG

(a
Project Preueress Report tor
through Docember 1966

ations I/11O:
erdod April 1465

1. There has been only one major
LIONION Project during this period ani th
responsibllity of Case Officer hy Iie
departure of Lawrence F BARKER from

datnistrative chaage in the
twas the assumption of
PUA. TRECKLER po:

he

exico in Auyust 19: In
aittion, Hus NCOTTE, the WOACRE representative has beon
replaced by Walter 7, CORNBORY,  TRECKLER u the altas of "Jo:
ond CORNBURY the alfas of "Jack" for mostin:

LIONTON-2,

with LTONION=1 and

2. Another administrative change wa
revolving fund ac ounting tem for ompl
‘This has simplified the payment

with a small tana for emarjency

the establi ne ofa
ont by LIONTON-2,
stem 2nd has provided LIONIO
Irposes,

1

3. Whereas the majority of the previous etings had beon
held between NCOTTE and (ION(ON=1, all mootings are now heldi
betweon TRECKIEX and LTONION-1 for the conduct of routine opera
tional business and the overall ranning and Manaxement of the
Project. Meotings with COMNBURY aro for purely technical

4. Daring the month of October 1 David wv
originally obtained the LIONION Ba
been able to observe some of the
immediate k of the LIONION das
was made by TRECKLER and LT
but no visible sseurity pro!
to recheck hig procedures
insure that hs

reported
from th:

he
Street,
use Visible security factors
TON-1 over a poriod of several days,
lems were noted, LTONION=1 was inste
for preparing the equipment for and
vas not slipping a bit in security.

ucted

‘ (CONTI

Distribution:
ard ge

3 Janua
corer

CuSSHICATON

SRCRET 50-S-12273



aakessete _ snSEESEEEED
CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH

rrementloued possible secursty ha
taken by LIOXLON=1, om the tnst
rity. These, were
a the window through
This will eliminate the posst- |
sa pment the drapes
tipment, 1} behind the
ae ogtmers eas covered with # Mack felt eloth to elluteete ore
dine of ‘the equipnent from tke oppusite direction sit et dows on
he wall. (3) f portable screen was orocted behind the pulse
Seen (also dark In color) for aided blockage of silhove ta outline
of the equipment, This also'servea au a screen ot the equipment itrom
the eyes of the servant should she kuock on the door Paring LIONTON=1,
He does not now have to open: the P Like a housewile Crying to keep
the salesman's foot out of it but can open the loor fully and_ask
what she wants, :

st of the
1 sites
fteer, to in
vier drapes

S. As ar
soveral Vition
tions of the Case
a8 follows: (41)
which the ais utils
bDLItly of oulline shadows of th
Mt Tight ts pleesd gehind the o

6. LIONION-1 48 a highly motivated arent, performing a most
boring and difficult task, photographic surveillance of the target.
The only Uiversion he has from this 19 when the surveillance team |
48 being utilized asd he functions as the dispatcher. The years in
this job are berinning to toll a bit on LIONTON-] ee he ts a little
more pent up and nervous, .[t ts diffteutt (o understand how an
educated man such ag LLONION-1 can perfor hoa menial task unle
it As by motivation and desire to perform sume service in the stru
against the PENRGMEN regime, Also, LIUNION-1 literally has to be
forced to take a vacation. Me spands five and a halted ys taking

SS

photographs, the weekend printing and doveloping and perhaps only
goes out'a couple of nighls a w. The Caso Offivor intends to
force iEONION=1 to take more we $ away from work and spend more

specially on long woekend

time travelling outuide Mexico City,
holidays,

7. (A major portion of the whole LIONLON-1 problem Lies with
LIONTON-2, "his mother, ‘hile she 1s in a way an assistant to him
and functions as a busehouse keeper when he is not present in the
se, she is also like a prison warden ag she will not do anything
unless ho ts with her. It is plainly a case of mitriaven completely
Gependent on son, LYONTON=2 will not even go to a department store
jocated a tow short blocks from the baschouse to buy "dainties” unless
LIONICH-1 takes her. je iso has the foollag that LION{ON=1'3
brothers, her other sons.who are both citizens and residents of
SOLADY, "do not like her, Therefore, she will not ko off to visit
rhom, not even for a short visit to a wedding of granddaughter

which took place re ently,

&.. Tits problem has been discussed openly and Frankly with
EIONLON-1 by the Cave Officer and it is felt that LTON{ON-S is
fonfident that his problem is known to us and we understaad it,
fheve can be no real cure fora matriarchal problem such ne this,
but attempts can be ma. to alleviate it temporarily from time to
time. This will be by forcing LIONION-1 to take vacat Lons/
sued teeing to get LIONION-2 to do the same even if the old :
skuldugyery of "for security reasons” has to be employed to accompli
it. There is no immediate danger to the LIONION Project as long a
}48 problem is understood and dealt with,

the Station
st. In addi-
in picking” session py

interesting observations

9. Tho LTONION Operation continues to provid
with the invaluable photographic cove,
tion, LIONION-1 is beiag submitte
the Case Officer in wich he is provi
on the personalities and activitivs of tne personnel working in the
target. After years of observation, LIONION=] ean vi tually tell
the exact frame of mind and disposation of the newalan inhabitants
of the target,

530 USE previous cD:1V04, Sirenees 2

iuaut Bsa



CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH

of LIONTON-2, Ne Nias been
individuals within the target to
, 1 los on thely comings and
“paring preliminary target st

gbserve closely and prepare sp
These have been very helpful in. pr
on these tndtviduad

IL. The value of LIONTON=1 and his Professtonal prowes:
Proved tn Auzuse 1966, when the Station had a period of less than
12 hours to spot, surveil and attempt, recruitment of Eduardo 0:
Bermudez, LIOXNION=1 was abla to spot the target and dispatch the
Survelilance, team on the correct tarzet without benefit of a photo=
graph and relying only on a description of the target given to hin
by the Case Officer, E : ‘

12. | LIONION-1 is anxious to get back in to the "listening-
post™ ‘business axsin and to that effect has been ever vigilant for
toeeeer OPPortunity to place a LIROMANCE typo device within the

target,
INTELLIGENCE: a

33.) There were no intelligence disseminations from this Opera-
tion during this pertod, ‘The LIONION Project 1s primarily a support
PXP operation as described previously. Any intelligence contng
from the activities of this Projoct mast he considered as a by-

product only,
PIANS:

if. Porhaps the most sisnificant plans for the future are to
possibly utliize the LIONION baschouse bay LIONEON~2 and LTONTON-2
as IP operutors in support of the LISAMPAN Operation. ‘The Case
Officer intends to continue the sdrato~picking" sessions on target
personnel and develop LIOMIONL'I's sons for spotting the unusual
that would provide key elements to a target Study, to a point whore
he Automatically looks for it and reports tt. The LIONION Project
wil] continue to be primarily a Photographic support operation.

ny

for
Willerd C, curtis

CRSSIFCATION

roa :
2.64 530 SE PREVIOUS EoHTOm, SECRET



£hie? of Station, Hoxtco City”

Sbhvi, a : _ : ce

ROM

chief of Station, JUTAVR f

suaxecr
ara

rolle of

graphs of pa

2.
project,
Rowever,

him (wb l

in the AlNG-1 debriozing files, JHYAVE bas had no other use for tho
aierefila sad wo iave not found any use for the manifests, Consequently
tho LITEMPO miczo%tin ang the Sccompanying manifests inve been of no

leads have been produced.

3,

program of having AMMUG<L review LIONION gules camera fils, In thet
dispatch JaUAIK resorted Bo new operational identifications er leads

have been produced,

Sogment of these activities does sot Justify the exseuse of continuing
to procesm the files and manifests ior Sorvardiag to Jifvave,

DISTRILVTION:
3 + COS, Hezico City

a Losi
B= w/e

re

DYVOUR/PORUNER/Opora tional

otra ES ;
SRPERERCES: A, m9 14310, 30 auguat 1960

ancval Can:

B. UFGY 5475,’ 23 August 1965
€. UGA 25423, 4 July 1965

Daring the LITEWDO Frojeet: year expiring oo S1 deteser 1966
ved LITEEPO dispatches with copies of nant fests and

@tcrofils (poottive copy per refereace B,) containing photo~

euports. ‘ :

JRIATS bas had AswvG/1 view tho microfilm of tho above-cited
During his reviey AUNUG~1 has wade a ousber of Adentifications
811 the persoss icentified had been identified previously by

lo being dobriefed at Headquartera) and are a matter of record

JUYAVE operations as ao new operutional identifications or’

Xn this rogard Blagege see esference C., chich pertains to the

In both casen (LITZEPO and LIGHION) 1% appears that the SHTAYE

MEILIP G. SLaARD

Bs JseigeeteeassdsteieeEeen oto
WO te edit

| exe owspatcne

SEP 2 5’ 196

‘DSPATCH SvivEOL AND NONSER

i 19—6=102/3

7 A 230.
0-6-5174 asus ————

4 30~8-139/3



ee ee eee

Attachment to

=]
an

11 ane s966

Te + Director
Federal Buresu of Investigation
Attantion: Mr. 8S. J, Papich

FROM 6: Deputy Director for Plans

SUBJECT: © American Auto at Cuban Embassy, Mexico City

‘1, References made to our CSCI 316/00527-66 and 5
subsequent request on 28 June 1986 from the Federal Bureau
of Investigation for the. photographs mentioned in our CSCI
and permission to pass these photographs to the Department
of State and the Armed Services,

2, Attached are xerox copies of the photographs.
Glossy reproductions of the photographs ore being processed
and vill be forwarded toe you at a later dato.

-_ 3, Permission ig granted to pass the photographs to
both the Department of State and the Armod Services.

CSCI~316/04028-68

Attachment: Three zerox copies of photographs

9 August. 1966

BDP/WH/C/CICS/__fsr Based On: Photos are Att. to
HMMA~27803
Distribution;
Orig-& 1 - Addressee . Project : LIONION
1 - RID, w/att.
1 = CIL/LIA File No.: 50-6~122/3
1 ~ CI/RSA
1 - WH/C/RR/RE
2=— WH/L, watt.
1 + Originator

1 ~ WH/C/cIcSs, w/att.

€S CGY

Sea Secs

Att
achment to cser 316/04028_66 H

Attachment to
CSCI 316/04028-66

CSCL 314/04028-66 :



“| Chief of Station, JMWAVE

Chief of Station, Kexico City .._

fT stones
i c
| Penarmanaco mut

References: A. UFGH-5989
B. MQW-14212, 27 Decenber 1965

1. Under separate cover ore ten (10) rolls of 35mm fils, vhich inchite
| five (5) negatives and five (5) positive negatives far use by Station JMMAVE

a0 indicated in reference B. The original negatives of these fiins vill be
sent to RI Archives for retention. :

2. Following ia a manifest of those rolls vhich are being forvarded to
THWAVE: .

March 14, 15, 16 = 1966
March 17, 18
“March 28, 29, 30

Merch 30, 31 and April 2
April 5, 6

Tyman D. McCLYMONDT

Attachment:
10 rolls film - u. a. c.

Distribution:
H 2 - COS, WAVE w/att
1 - COS, Maxtco City w/o att

6 June 1966
“CROSS REFEMENCE 10 ] DISPATCH STOR AND NUMBER
| URGH-6oz2 I:
Eererrrucs | fosmenoss

SECRE 50~6-122/3

Ps
: F 0 CL

$5" 53 use om . - : DISPATC :



Tagewaew

Aca |

Chief of Station, DWAVE

° Chie? of Station, Hcxieo City b+

 ehter, Mt Division

yourer

TRESS UDO -
Reference: A. awe, 2 27 December 1965 if

B.  1a-6373, 16 March 1966 a

C.  IMMP-6334, 3 Horch 1966

1. Under separate cover ure 60 rolls of 35am film, which include 30 negatives
and-30 positive negatives for use by Station JMWAVE ao indicated in reference A.
The “original negatives of these {Lino vill be sont to Ri/Archives for retention.

2. In view of: the expense of reproducing the negatives, JMWAVE 1s requested
to mevicw the usefulness of this film and advise Headquarters as to ito necessity.

3. Following ia a manifest of those rolls which are being forvarded to JMWAVE:

Bocembor —

October
1- HByE/65

2-7/8/n lo - 8/9/10 awz-8a9
2 - D/13/14 i = L/12/15 18 - 1o/s/ah/a5
= 15/18/19 12 = 16/17/18 19 = 16/17/20
3 - 19/20/22 8 = 19/22/23 -
& ~ 22 & 25 ~ 2h/25/
T- erie8 cel = 29/30 & 1/2 Dec.

8 - 28/29 & 3 Nov.

Feb) March

20 - 25 - 1/2/3 30 - 9/10/u.
21-10 to 14 26 = 4/7/8

22 -ai/is/ixfoo a - Dt IT

23 = 21/24/25/26 28 - 18 to 25

2h ~ . 2 = 28 Feb thru 8 Har.

60 rolls film - us 8. ce

Distribution:

2 - WAVE w/att
1 = Kexteo v/o att CS COPY
28 Anvil 1966 ——

‘enone wEFETENCE TO DISPATCH SYMaCK AND NOCH

UFGW-5959.

a T CLASCATION

SECRET

{SY SF use eaevions venom



i

fos noc

Reference; RMMAA27352, 7 October 1965

q
pt 3 © Qperation and by LIONTON@2 ag |
@ dedicated agent. SioxALp indieaced fo Hugh T, FRANCOTTE that he would look
into possibilities of installing a closed=ctrealt televinton aystem to enable H
the -LIONION agents te reewtely monitor the LIRING front gata,

3. Both Sgents assisted the Station tn surveil
period under teview by radlomdfspatching the LISMORACE
LIRING staffers, LI I0N-2 helped in thig dispatching
very well,

% LIOWLON=1 das kept a close watch on LIRLNG personnel and, in one instance,
his views on the vecruitudilicy of a LIRING staffer contributed to « Station
decision to attempt recruitaenc,

TGR aan AR RALRIC eS aSHn Eee

Distribution:

VOriginal & 1 = c/a

7 1- pewa/e
1 ~ c/surtor
2 PILES

DISPATCH Srioo AND

meen

6 April 1966,

HMA=28689

SMCS FME MUMOER


CONTINUATION OF if
OISPATCH | FEW 28659

se 2 late March a malfunction necessitated replacement of the pal
ra clock, anothr clock Was Teceived from KURIUT in a Tecord ten daya,
Thle rapid support was imch appreciated, :

6. To support LIONION~2"s candidacy for nmigrado Kentteta” statue te
nee gbuaty for the station to advance funds for deposit with s Hexteda bank
Go Ree: account, just as wan done earlier.for LIONLONS1. A Separate dispatch

“All deal with accountcbility for cheaa funda,

7. Memoranda of Oral Commitment covering both agents have been submitted
‘separately, :

i 8. EIONION-1 and LIONION-2 continue to do excellent work, Neither hag
Prevented the Station with any agent handling probleme.

: eae Fe J obePn.
: fs) Be
. for yillard' G. bad othe,

5S" 53e vse pnewous eovnon, [

L nema





ao

BISPATCH |

SECRET

Chief, WH Divisioa

Chief of station, Mexico City

_._\-_PBRUMEM/LIONEON/Opaxat ional. Prograsa Report.
evioweuauiney-atrentnces

Chief of Station, JMVAVE

PERE

Reference: A, HMMA 26576, 8 July 1965
i B. UMMA 27255, 23 September 1963

1, During the period July through September 1965 the Liowiom
operation eoved ahesd snoothly, The following figures shew photo prodactioa
for thio quarter: .

Eulac Camara, Fest Rontax/Relacone ARS brine
oh Ehia Exoosed a0 tixngsuse Rolle Froduction
- Exnaned

July 650 30 1080
August 1200 34 1224
Septamber 1 1050 28 1008

2. A reconditioned 35 mm pulse cansra was received on 22 July and
immediately installed by Hugh T, FRANCOTTE. Guo minor breakdown occurred
during the reporting pertod owing to @ obort in the battorycabloa, this wae
repated at. tha basshouse and no photographic coverage vas lost. Other than this
ene ‘minor problem the camera has been operating satisfactorily, :

continued

Attachesnts: :
As stated = under sepsrate cover

Distribution:
“2 C/WHD = w/ate (usc)
1 = COS RSIAVE - w/actt (usc)
2- Files

‘GROSS ErERENCE TO

‘Toate

EMMA 27352

CLASSIFICATION Was Fie NUMER
SECRET 50-6=i22/3



IUATICN OF
DISPATCH

SecRET is mew 27352

3. LIGHION-i's cover ea translator, heretofore wotioual and rather
= Ehin, wae given @ tremendous booge (and challenga) whan he vae called upon
- in August to help tho Presidencia in translation of the President's Stace of
che Vaio Massage into gaglish, one of only three persons choren for
this work. Interestingly, be wes chosen

because he hod beea (astruczed by hia
to. gee that it got bruitedebout that L-1 does translations on the side to

a fer bio remittance incom,’ :Oné of hie friends with close connections in the
Previdencia heard about: this and took L-1 at his word, When the opportunity arose
and. L*1 wos epproached ha vas astounded. a checked with the C/O end wae told;

“MLtya your cover!" The, Preatdeacte’ vaa vary oatiofied vith Lel's work, he mada

Y ‘o'given ea impressive letter that will keep all
_f¥om bis door in the future, his, plus the-fact chat L*l is now
8 aving coupletel hic. five-year as an "inmiyraate", seems to solve
his coverproblem Permanently, A copy of the letter given to Lel 19 atached (use)

‘7 cody Ln Tocated and,at Station dire

‘Spartueat weationed fa. refereaceB.
Spottiag this promleing piece of real
“renting its

ction, succeeded in renting tho
He was commended foi nis alertness. ta
eotate and his ingenious and secure way of

5. The LIONION safe epartaéet (not the Busehousc) has boen stocked
With sufficient. supplies to enable it to be used as a safe havan in case che
Stetion should need it ia an emergency, This wae dono ao result of tha AMIASP
defection vhen the Station suddenly found tteelf confronted with four PRRUMENEsS
to house and feed clandestinely, As a result, Station fe oites are being
scockad with food ond other supplies. L-1 did an excellent job of fixing up the
LIONION apartment. The spartacat-was recently svept by Headquarters techaicieae
and adjudged clean, Tha technicians commented that it was one of the sset

desirable and secure sofo sites they had seen, another denerved compliacnt to
Lvh who originally ‘located it.

6. Ll performed several opeciel observation assignments for thé
Station during the period. One of these involved keeping @ special log on the
movement pattern of the Embassy codo clerk, :

7. In all of his work Le.

‘1 continues to be ably cupported and assisted
by Liouroy-2. ,

8. Lel's aorale continues high deopite the long houre and general
ponotony of hie work. The Station recently learned to ite ourprise that L-1
hoo been working sevon days a week for nome time, Sucdays are’ davoted to photo
printing, He pute in a full day and long night evary day of tha week. To
complicate cattere he recently received what emounte to a partiel "Dear John"
from bis girl friend in Puerto Rico, She informed him che 10 going out more
often and having @ good-tima. This got his aptrits down for a while but in
no way affected hio vork. The Station {e conoidering givdag him.a round trip
Nexio “Puerto Rico air ticket cs o birthday present in Hoveaber. This would
Bive him o chance to patch things up and to take a mich-needed rest, At. present
he will not take a doy off unless ordered to do so by the C/O. This is commend=
able devotion to duty but in the long run it is not healthy. Som way will be
found to persuade L-1 co. telex a bit from tina to tias,

9. With the re-eotablishcant of a PERUMRN CE Unit at Headquartere,
does Headquartera wieh future LIONION Production sont there? Or should it
Continue to ba sent ot JMWAVE? Please advi:

i Ut aie
Willard C, CURTIS



PACSIOENCIA SE LA REPS
DIRECSICN GENERA ce ci7usiON
YREUCIONES PSDLCAS

A QUIEN CORRESPONDA,

Por la provente me permite hacer

iente gue el sotor

de sy conoci:

duceién de documentos relatives &

colaboraré en la t

des do esta Direccisa General, durente los dics 29,

30 y 31 del presente mes,

iciéa col interesedo ext

lo veiatioshe oh

“SICAT. 4 Thisms 21958 seb



a Sere aye

DISPATCH

chief, WH Dtytaton

re

ne

SECRET

XXX_ | no'Ndrxino eeauineo

ONLY GuALInEO OF3e
CAN 1UUGE INDIO

THO.

rom

Chief of Station, Mexico city microritak
qT 77 EERE ESERIES -

©. PBRUMEN/Prom{ ging Developmental Operations
‘ACHON REQUIRED - BEVERENICES 7

1,. Two promising new operations in the PBRUMEN fleld are now in the
developmental stage:

A. Through\LITAMIL-3 the Station haa recruited a barber

who used to“viett the Embassy regularly to cut the

hair of PBRUMEN Ambassadors and sta€f employees. | Thia
man has been a long-time friend of L=3. Ite has been
reintroduced into the Embasuy and hag vistted there on
three eccasions recently. He does not know who he Ls
working for beyond L=3. The Ambassador has proven to

be somewhat of a skinflint, paying only 10 pesoa for

a haircut whereas the goiug price for a haircut at one's
home or office {3 20 pesos, To date I-3 has paid the
barber a tetal uf 100 pesos (supplied by the Station),

It io planned to put him on a retainer of about 250
pesos a month ($20 US cy) with bonuses n9 oppropriate.
The Stacton thugs hes a straight razor at the Ambausador's
throat and, while an accidental slip aight scem worth=
while, it ty believed chat this new asset will eventually
prove usetul tn placing technical devices Inside. On his
last visit he did his hatrcutting in an upstairs room unly
a wall's thickness from the DGI center. Full PRQ data
and more extensive details will be forwarded promptly.

Continued

c/WD
Ez 3 - Piles enorLMED

“CROSS REFERENCE TO ‘DISPATCN SYMBOL AND NUMBER

do-se 6199/3) ERO 27255 | 23 September 1965
- CLASSIFICATION PGS FLE NUMER
ies fag cece E se So+6-122/3

50-6 -128/3



SUNHINUATION OF j
DISPATCH

Xs An apartaent dtrectly across the street: from the
Ambassador's offlee has been rented throdgt LIONLON"L
who hag ostenglbly reserved tt for a notional friend
ct his, a translator who 4s out ef the country and
MALL aveive back within eve aonths. This te a such
better location than the LIONION basehouse but is
being considered for use as sa LP (to received from
additional techuteal devices te he planted tnotde),
kathee than as another photo base, The Station hag
heen after one of the apartrents in this building
for yeara,

2. Details on both of these operations will be forwarded soon. This

dispatch Ls only 2 stop-gap measure to keep Ilcadquarters informed of new devel=
opwente,

Kew!

“Willard ¢, CURTIS
jforwiue

/



Gassncalion

SECRET

Chief, WH Diviston

>

Chief of Station, JUAAVE -
7K

Chief of Station, Mextco nye
sania

()__PBRUMEN/LIONION/Operational Progress Report

‘ACHON REQUIRED - RLFERENCES

ONLY QUALIFIED DESK
CAN JUUGE IHUEAING

sMICROFIM

Reference: RMA 26005, 30 April 1965

«72d. During the second quarter -of 1965 (the period covered by this
report) the: LIONION operation experienced some technical difficulties which
have not been solved to date. Normal coverage of the target was obtained
throughout the month of April with the exposure of some 600 feet of film by
the pulse camera and 28 rollé of 36-exposure Tri-X by the Pentex/Balscope
installation, Normal coveraye continued until 27 May at which tlie the pulse
camara became inoperative oving.to @ burned-out drive motor. The camera was
removed and forwarded. to Headquarters for necessary repairs and @ Pentox with
a 180°mm telephoto lens was rigacd as a temporary aubstitute for coverage of
the Conadlaté entrance. On 16 June a reconditioned pulse camera was received
and {amediately placed tn service, Unfortunately, thts unit failed on 27 June
and was removed. -A faulty shuttec motor vas to blame, This comere wes also
forwarded to Headquartérs for repair and the Pentax/180 mm rig was again set
up. This rig is being operated by LIONION-2.

2, Morale of both agents continues high, expecially in view of the
excellent service Hendquarteca performed in "{souing" new PBRUMEN passports
for these agents, Both were astounded Co see their own signatures expertly
forged in the new documenta, Neadquarters help in this documentat ton
problem 1s greatly appreciated, : :

3. It will be recalled that in the last progress report the Station
requested Headquarters end Station JMWAVE views on forwarding LIONION photos
to RGHAVE, ‘This request was promptly answered by MMH 13645 and photos have

i = Cont inued~

Distribution:
= c/WMD
1 + COS WAVE...
2 > Files

CS copy. : Ke

‘GROSS REFEWENCE TO BISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER ‘ate

RMMA 26576; | . 8 July 1965.
_| was Fee Numata

2122/2

CLASSIFICATION ©

"SECRET. $0-6-122/3



"SCAND RRL

WO 26576

5 T
CONTINUATION OF | tt

accordingly beon nent to JMVAVE which, dy having AMMIG-1 screen thon, hee
alveady made one {porcant DCI identi fication. :

4. during the period under review a étepatch sovering detatis of the
LIONION pulses camara opetation (AMMA 26414, 22 June) was forwarded to KURIOT.

3. With reinforcements for the Station's PBRUMEN Section due to
arrive shortly, {¢ 18 expected that more operational exploitation of the
excellent LIONION production will result in shore order,

TERS

ee E Oo | no

vow
3S" S3q | use newous common | eee a peugea



, ome Gus O
eeansiny 10 PIE m2.

7]

xeon
Ong

‘ovance core

Qenee Gore O
@

25104423

BEF PHOTOS SHOWN AMMUG-L WHO IDENTIS IED

YAY 55 AS NO PERTO (HERNAN

> CURSELO,
Sat CFF ICER, AXA NOEL 2UCARELI, AKA NOEL. HEAD OF GuAT DESK iN

PACES (HDICATE ONE LUIS NOPRERTO CHERNANDEZ) CURBELO
Pal-GaSiSi, MEAD Guar SEsv, MATL LIBERATION DEPT DEE aNd FORMER

41 ON VATCHL (ST OF WAIL INTERCE®T

VY CUBANA MANIFESTS iNDICATE SUS ARRIVED MEAL 3 >

SS AND RETURNED HAYA 3 “21 65 PP MO, D 657224,

4. A-t GCG FR ua, Gi Y HEM SINCE 37 Wan

3

#0 AND HAS KN

TA YPRESHED FUR 28 J

ACTIVITIES, A-i HAS MET SueG0'S

~ HAS VISITED THEIR HOME. A>?

PEE SO! m= MET UPON JOINENG OGLE aD ONE Y

b OP LENT ATION, ie



Nid
Fe ory st

3
A-1 AND SUQJ pCFOR NER FEELS SUBY

STING EVENT HE EXITS PSPUMENSAGAIN

EXCHANSE Vv S WITH A-1,

CUPIES OF SUBJ SHOTO SEING FORVARDED MEXT AND. HOS,

. SEQUEST MEX NOTIFY AVE EvENT SuSs RE-ENTIOS “EXT AS

OSED SEND A-1 ECFECT PARA S NESTING,
6. iNDEX.

w
°
a
™
a

1 12 § €5 NORWIERTO HERNANDEZ CURBELO DGI

Z537 HNMA 26160 ANMET

= NOEL SUCAR ELE AXA NOEL LN OGL LUIS NORSERTO HERNANDEZ CURBELO

¢

pe Nd D- 65/222 a-1 57 26

PAGEL



CLASSINICATION

SECRET

DISPATCH.

Chief of Station, Mexico City

i mg nO KIO BE QUHPED

“i omy Guauinito corte

a A

| care sureie inves
i
i

Chief, ¥H Division a oe

Sag
~_PBRUMEN/Confusion of Cryptonyns

AGIAN HUGURD » BETERENEES

REF:  HMMA-23712, 17 June 1964

1. In line with the Statica's request in reference :to
assign new cryptonyms to certain operational activity directed
Against the PERUMEN installation so that the confusion in the
use of other cryptonyms can be avoided, Headquarters has
taken the following action:

a. LIONION ~ This cryptonym has been assigned to the
_. Photé=basehouse and photo coverage of the PBRUMEN official
installation. Since the Station indicated in Paragraph 3 a
of reference that a separate project vill be prepared to cover
LIFEUD 22 and LIFEUD 23 and this photographic coverage, a
project file number was requested for LIONION in four parts.
The Station will be notified of this new number in the normal
channela. an

b. “LIPEAT/LIERODE (50-6-32/8) - Both the cryptonym
and file number have been retained.to refer to the original
purpose, normal LIFEAT coverage of PBRUMEN iostallations.

¢. LIFEAT/LIOMEN (50-6-32/7) ~ The cryptonym LIOMEN
has been assigned to the MKTRAP activity directed against the
PBRUMEN installation. The file number 50-6-32/7 has been
assigned to this phase of the LIFEAT operation.

(continued)

Distribution: oy
O&1 - COS, Mexico. City

8 July 1964

HAMW-12725

HGS FRE MOREE

‘GROSS REFERENCE TO DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER 7. yy
8 copy
CLASSIFICATION

SECRET 50-6-32/6

DPIGINATING

~ CLUS CO
wi/i/c, Busted:chk

COGRDINATING.

GCE SMO

Rrcesrocrs

C/WHD"

KS" 53. use previous common



x ath

icon Tion OF WaearcaTON iin
DISPATCH SBCRET i

2. Beadquarters acknowledges that the TPSLIDE cryptonym
which gas used throughout HMMW-12454 has indeed been cancelled ©
and that the use of this cryptonya was in error.

\ 3. Tne Stotion's bains tu provide such # detalled account

lof the administration of the LIFEAT basehouses will :add ;

greatly to Headquarters understanding of this project, and

your cooperation 1s sinplifying the use of the cryptonyma

v in the LIFEAT--~PBRUMEN operations is greatly appreciated by
EURIOT and BM Division.

Chester D.. DAINOLD

ae oa | ELA SETATION i
PREVIOUS EDITION. 7
eaciicdee teagan SECRET H

H

