‘opera’
~and MASS, 4s currently: in-the Washington, D.Cs area at the.
suggestion of Mr.’ Howard HUNT, in. an effort. to resolve his citir:
senship status,’ He waa interviewed by a representative of: 2)...’
WH/U/SO on 15: daly 1961 at. the Shoreham Hotel to develop all

available: background informticn:conserning Mis; 2oae,

2 traveled,-not ana passport; but, or.an identity card:
tis. U.3.. citizenship. ee ee

dmarican Eabassy in Havana, and also worked closely with the”:
_ Treasury representative in breaking up two: nareotics rings plying.
between Florida and Cuba. He served as ‘escort for Mrs. TRUMAN and
paola em eda Dee cl ee
House comendaticns :

he iy BARKERS Sptnted; the. booune {ius obdsot: pi: persoaa

+ ' Spite on the part of an unnamed Embassy staff member, who. took

te action to revoke his citizenship status based on his membership.
: the Cuban police. In an effort. to rectify his plight, Mr.:SPEARS
bet the Enbassy FSI representative, sent him to Dr. Mario LAZO, a.
vas leading Havana attorney, to. prepare the case for a plea to regain. ©



citizenship. hoscrdiixg to BAM? fecellaction, ends odousea
in 1953. Dr. LAZO compiled a formidable file on the Subject
and was in cormunicition with a borage: bal D.C. legal firm,’
which BARKER dimly recalls as that of Edward Bennett WILLIAMS,
who was to handles the case locally... “A private bill was intro-
- duced in the 83rd Congress by Congresaman WILLIAMS of New Jersey
to restore the Subject's citizenship, but BARKER doss not know :
why no action was taken on the bill. “At the time, he was. in -
financial difficulties and took a. job as s tractor ‘driver’ out.
Gide Havana for about: 8mintidy dn whleh period he had'no contact
with Dr. LAZO, who, a3 BARKER believes, interpreted his failure’
to appear in the office as a lack of interest, in pree the
*o 8 muacesefil, conclssione.;

ington sa ous oscasting sad Besath rex wee rane ‘be,
recalled... He believed the °
MoCarthy

Mes requested’ | Dr.
“MarioiZAZo name of the Washington law firm. which handled:
Subjects. case in 1953, and the: reason. ‘or the failure of:
speeia) bill,



