MHFNO: 93-4732005

ACTION: LA/CCGRR (056)

SECRET

LADORECORD, LIMITO, MDSX, ODPD, FILE, C/LA, DC/LA (3/W)

SECRET 022047Z DEC

CITE 43599

TO: DIRECTOR.

SENSIND
SECRET FRP: , 5
STAFF
INFO: C/ORMS, LA/CCG, LA/MCGRR, LA/MCGSGH,
PAGE 001 IN_ 4732005
TOR: 030148Z DEC 93 J43599

93 STAFF

FOR: LIMIT LA/CCGRR INFO LA/CCG, LA/MCGRR, LA/MCGSGH

SLUGS: WNINTEL INTEL SWANLACE REAM SWCONTROL SWRACK

SUBJECT: CUBA TIDBITS FROM LATE NOVEMBER SWRACK

REF: 443580

TEXT:

93 4718127

1. ACTION REQUESTED: NONE. FYI.

2.  SWRACK TRANSCRIPTS OF 26-27 NOV 93 CONTAINED

CONVERSATIONS BETWEE]

DURING THIS CONVERSATION, STATED THAT

CUBAN PRESIDENT FIDEL ((CASTRO)) RUZ WAS UNHAPPY WITH THE
PROSPECT OF CUBAN ELECTIONS THAT ARE TO BE HELD IN HAVANA IN DEC

1993.

SAID THAT ALTHOUGH ELECTIONS WERE

ALREADY HELD IN 1993, THEY ARE GOING TO BE REPEATED AND THERE IS
A POSSIBILITY THAT CASTRO WILL LOSE.

feet IN MID-MAY 1993,

JTRAVELED

TO CUBA ON AN UNOFFICIAL VISIT. AT THAT TIME THE THREE MEN WERE

WINED AND DINED BY FIDEL CASTRO. IT IS APPARENT FROM

CONVERSATION WITH

THAT HE IS A TRUSTED FRIEND OF THE

CUBANS .

4. ON 27 NOV CUBAN OFFICIAL SPOKE WITH
ANOTHER CUBAN OFFICIAL POSTED_IN | ABOUT
*THE<KENNEDY ASSASSINATION. > (CLAIMED THAT BRIGADIER GENERAL
FABIAN ({ESCALANTE)) FONT OF THE MINISTRY OF INTERIOR WAS
HANDLING THE MATTER AND THAT HE HAD INFORMATION THAT COULD

*POSITIVELY IDENTIFY THE<KENNEDY>ASSASSINS.

5. FILE: SWRACK.

DECL OADR DRV HUM LIA 1-87.

SECRET


13-00900.

SECRET
MHFNO: 93-4732005 SENSIND: PAGE: 2
END OF MESSAGE SECRET

SECRET
