# 104-10180-10042

## Page 1

104-10180-10042

PRIOR TO FIÜNG

Bill in Spee 2 as back De tich kick Hap

and lorrard i RID

2.

Destroy ton: cover sherl, unloss at sorords

sunilicont action loken or comments resuir.

ing.preservatan

FROM

RID:

210/4

EXI. 9539

28.59

TUSE GI-Y

DATE

TO

TO ACTION BRANCH

a tie an ogdad shoggie, got broper.

ise proper him no below and forward

ENSION tO BID AN

• 9

DETTEGELTNO

TO. ALLADDRESSEES

FRi SECTIONT ONDÄCK IN APPROPRIATE.

COMMENTS

ORATIALS

1033058

8 may

Lid' COUPUTCA

PROCESSED

ined

MICROFILMED

APR 2 3 1970

DOC. MICRO SER.

14.

15

16.

17.

RID: FI

TRACE

REQUEST

DATE MICROPLATO

/NOSTRACT

FILE TITLE

THE NUMBERTER MARTINE.

14•5•42

= 3

DOCUNENTACUDEN

UNDA J$862

SECRET

8 $ 838

---

## Page 2

DISPATCH

CLUSIKATION

PROESSING ACTION

MARRED FOR DIDEXDEG

Chief, WiV coG

. XX

NO MAXING HOURSD

Chief of Station, Wl

ONLY QUALIFID DESE

ief,

CAN RIDGE LECOXING

FROM

Chief of Base

TYPIC/ AYROSE/ DONOPS

"ANCHORILA

Current Analysis of Cuban l'

Mission ind DGI Centey in Niw York

ACTION RIQUIRID: RIFIRINCIS

Action Required: FYI

Transmitted herewith

copy. each for CWVCOG and COSW

MIAMI of the April 1970 Cuban Official Presence Listing as prepared

by the local, LNERGO Cuban Squad

The under signed has added on the

• 201 numbers,

indicated CUIS affiliation; added two names. and deleted

The departure dates för

several CUN personnel also are noted

The listing, thus; is valid as of 10 April.

. According to LNERGO, only two CMUN workine wives are officially

carried on LNERGO records.

wife of I

(201-328953), and

because of the impending

on 14 April, can be deleted from the listing•

Additionally; other CMUN wives work or have worked in the past on a

sporädic basis (such as

Chief Jot late have been regulor local emplayees.

(201-330002) • Howtver,

wer, on contex

Addressees will note the proponderance of DGI personnel on

the CMUN roster.

Of the 18 (excluding

personne.

on board as of 10 April, 12 are DGI.

Interestingly enough,

personnel is a higher number than has been the rule over the past

several years; it one point there were only 3 non-Dil personnel,

including the Ambussader/Permanent Representative.

are code clerks detailed to

DSE. Two others

"architect"

Attachment:

As stated - Para l - h/w.

Distributioni

- Chief, WVCOG, w/att.

2 - Chief

of Station,

2 - Chief, DO, w/o att

IN C

w/att. Ivw.

iftl

CROES REFRENCE TO

Dict flie

nS COPY

DISPARCH SYMOCE AND ELIMBER

1.200-1-52

UNDA- 4862

CLASSITICATION

SECRET

DATE

13 April 1970

MOS FUL RELATIN

14-5-42

02-500

---

## Page 3

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

TIMEATIO

SECRET

VXDA-4862

and the muson assigned here temporarily to work on the CHUN secure

rons and security

sj'Steris (sce previous.reporting.för. details).

Tus, 8 porsonnel are left for espiónage operating purposes.

Regalio, RODRIGUE Lopez (2(J-332665) probably serves now as

Depuby co lonter hiet

Allowing for the impending departures

the DGI Center will now consist of:

"Rogelio RODRICUEZ Lopez

IA CCR:.

FROCISSEN

As will he noted, the departure of

and the impending departures of

_will chang

corplexion of the DGI Center considerably.

If they are not replace

for one reason or another (per other reporting), the DGI Center

will have but four experienced and competent Cuse Officers at its

spends by far the bulk of his time inside

the office pursuing his role of supervisor/manager. RODRIGUEZ iS a

Jure mainly concerned with operational

support tasks

Tis the Center's best counter-surveillant,

is the technical "export" of the Center.

handler, but his abilities are rather limited in this regard, per

Base and ENERGO information and observations.

Should the departees

not be replaced, the Centor may be forced de facto into a cutback of

operational uctivity.

We shall watch with interest the behaviop patterns of the

Did center in the near future, in light ot the above and in light of

other recunt reporting le the

status of the Dil abroad.

t can

PAGE INC

FOREN

8- a 5 3a

1A)!

FEE MANIOUS EDITIO

GAISIPICATIR

SICKIT

---

## Page 4

/ALOM GIT

SECRET

Cuban Mission to

the lilted Nations

6 Last 67th Sirest:

New Yoris, New Toris

Aprid D, 1970

Pet.

RICARDO

347590)

19

Aronssador

PI. 2-0123

Dependents:

JULIO

osition (201

Residence

551731

Phone

Dependents

17

Fiist Secretary

593-0480

to saded)

DE SOUZA,

Position"-201- UNK

AiTOVEO 20-354648)

Residence

Phone

Dependents

FORAKE CAPIRO, PIOTO (20L=

detailed DGI-

Residence

815821)

codeclerk phone

armined

Dependents

'64

110

Roviser

TO 0-9202

19

Attache

DE: 1-5250

coder)

lfe

UTER

APR 23 1970

DOC. MICRO. SER.

SEGRET

CS COPY

1?- 5.47

---

## Page 5

SEGRET

FINUiCO GORANSE, RUDEM RAFAEL

DGI

SLAFINT MARTIIEZ, JUSTO

DGI

Osit1On / 201

osidenc

83922))

Phone

R

JLENCZ

FADION, FLORINTOTO

Position

Résidence, 201°

850953)

Phone

Dependents

Monses

CARBATLO, PEDTO A.

Position

Residcnce (201-

Phone

Dependents

Pet.

19

Attache

17

Actache

099-5526

Aieroin (chauffeur)

aded)

17

Counsellor.

593-2431

(x radea.)

AETECIA SONATE, PEAIDO D.

Torition

19

jirat Ceciclaiy

DGI

• liestuence (201

Phonc

14860

Dependent

SE NTrONSC.

FOLANDO

Position

2), Pillel DGI- Mectienco (201-

corteclerk paone

536757)

M.tache

Dupendent

Tave dir ll tosil 1970 -krigeieo

= 2 .

k caded)

kended)

SaRel

---

## Page 6

SECRE!

P3030 LiIS

Position

•DOL fiesidence

(2015

liaring soon Dependent

624326)

FRITES GUITENTS, OLANDO

DEI -

Positdon

Residence

(201-

enter Che Pione

Devendent

330002)

REXES GOICOCIO, MAUR

Position

DGI Residence

1201-

859874)

Phone

Bet.

19

mid Societary

801-2408

19

First Sceretary

219-0224

19

Attache

20

DELETE:

DGI

Position

Residence

1201-

departed PCs on T'one

7 March, 1970

S1b437)

Secont Secretary

78-D;

Deponiest ripestiled

RODRIGUEZ LOPEZ.

FOGELID

Position

110

first accretary

Phone

699-5526

SANTANA DRAIZ, MOJERM:

Position

DGI

Residence

816439)

Attache

S'SAITIGO NUDE, ROBERCO

Position

1 201-

DO I Residence

Phone.

859875)

Altache

3

Ricadeal

---

## Page 7

VIERA LITARES:

Posttim (201-

DEI

328953)

MamnalC Dependents

14 Apsil 1970°

ADD ON:

FERNANDEZ

Padilla, Victoria

POSICION

RESIDENCE (201-

PHONE

340lb6)

DEPENDENTS

CADALSO Bandono (n), Rafael

leGilel D6I -

POSITION

Code clerh

PHONENCE (566098)

PHONE

DEPENDENTS

= 14=

Pcio

Councelos

17

ATTACHE

None

Attache

Pendes)

169-55-15

---

## Page 8

781

DATE

29 MAR.62

TO

DIRECTOR

FROM

ACTION:

1v 2

INFO

• DOP, COP, CALI

Fi/INT o,

CLASSINIED MESSAGE

SECRETI

dada disli

is timidid to it

rap did an indicate

CA/PROP, C0/E 2,

ROUTING

3

6

MAR. 29

05072 62

ROUTINE

IN 10495

TOC53/506, 346

DIR

iNFO

CITE

0408

INTEL

SUPDATA LINLUCK FROM

RE PARA TWO PGT

SENT CONGRATULATIONS TO LINLUCK FOR HIS WORK AND OFFICIALLY.

CONFIRMED FAÇT HE SHOULQ CONTINUE HANDLE EXCLUSIVELY PURCHASE

WEAPONS AND MILITARY EQUIPMENT BUT TO BE VERY CAREFUL ABOUT HIS

PERSONAL SECURITY.

FILED 290005Z REPORT CLASS SECRET NOFORN

CONTINUED CONTROL

HAM 6283

SUBJECT VIEWS OF THÉ

PGT ON THE POLITICAL SITUATION

DO 124 MARCH 62

24 MARCH 62 APR 2 PERSON (8) WITH GOOD

EXILE CIRCLES

CONNECTIONS IN

INDEX

IW COMMENT:

SEPA

GABLE ! ISTRES ON IS BÉING MADE ÖR THIS TOES.

WH/REG

WH/3/G

RELEASING IWO

DATE DISTRISUTED

BASED ON:"

TOCS

PRECEDENCE

xL ROUTINE

PRIORITY

HMM 6253 •

LINLUCK

..MAR 29 15032 62

SECRET

"DUCTION

BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

35-9-9

Copy No.

---

## Page 9

MELEGRAM

INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

Defense

miss not

CLASIRCATION DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

SECRET

When Filled lay

COUNTRY

EUBJECT

OT VIEWS ON THE ROGERA SINE IN

"GUATEMALA

REPORT NO. IDCS -3/506,346

- DATE DISIR: 29 MARCH 1962.

PRECEDENCE ROUTiNE

DATE OF

INFO.

PLACE A

DATE ACO.

APPRAISAL

24 MARCH 1962

(24 MARCH 1962).

THIS: IS UNEVALUATED iNFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS

REfERENCES

*IN 10495

FIELD REPORT NO, HMM

6283

IVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TE

'ATIVE

SOURCE

- 1. VICTOR MANUEL

GUTIERREZ, HEAD OF THE PARTIDO GUATEMALTECO

DEL TRABAJO (PGI-[GUATEMALAN COMMUNIST PARTY) AN MEXICO, SAID ON

24 MARCH/HAT THE POT. IN GUATEMALA REGRETS THE WAY IF WHLCH THE.

GUERRILLA FIGHT HAS DEVELOPED THERE. ACCORDING TO THE PGT, THE

RESULTS OF THE GUERRILLA FIGHTING HAVE NOÏBEEN SUCCESSFUL BECAUSE

THE 13 NOVEMBEL GROUP (MEMBER QF

THE

13) NOVEMBER 196O. ATTEMPT TO

OVERTHROW THE GUATEMALAN GOVERAMENT) HEADED BY MARCO ANTONIO

TON SOSA, IS NOT IN ACCORDANCE THIN THE POLITIÇAL CONCEPTS OF THE

COMMUNIST STRUGGLE: THE POT ALSO REGRETS THAT THE COMUNISTS AND

MEMBERS OF THE PARTIDO DE UNIDAD REVOLUCIONARIO: (PUR-EXTREME

LEFTIST PARTY) HEADEDIBY CARLI:: PAZ TEJADA WERE INTERCEPTED AND

CLASSIFICATION

DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

SECRET

NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL

STATE

ARMY/ACSI

NAVY| AIR 1 ICS I SECDEF INSA: NIC USIA| OCIL ONE OCR ORR| 00|DIA PAI

TELE

INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

'St Mae62

3598

---

## Page 10

SECRET

When Filled "Ia)

CLASSIAICATION - DISSEMINA". ON CONTROLS

NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL

T06S-3/586,346

10495

PAOS

FORCED TO FIGHT WHEN CONDITIONS WERE NOT ADVANTAGEOUS FOR THEM.

ACCORDIRG FO THE PGT THE RESULTS WERE DISASTROUS, WITH THE LOSS

OF "MIDDLE RÄNK COMMUNIST. PARTY MENBERS AND NATIONAL LEADERS."

THE PGT CONSIDERS IT A "MIRACLE" THAT PAZ TEJADA WAS ABLE TO ESCAPE.

HOWEVER, THE POT STILL BELIEVES THAT THE GOVERNMENT OF MIGUEL

YDIGORAS FUENTES, PRESIDENT. OF GUATEMALA, WILL SOON FALLO

?.. THE MAIN HOPE OF THE PGT NOW HINGES ON THE ACTIONS OF THE

GUERRILLA GROUP ORGANIZED AND ARMED IN MEXICO, (FIELO COMMENT:

IT HAS BEEN REPORTED PREVIOUSLY THAT THE 13 NOVEMBER GROUP IN MEXICO

HAD CROSSEO THE MEXICAN/GUATEMALAN BORDER SUCCESSFULLY AND HAD

ESTABLISHED A SECOND GUERRILLA FRONT.) THE PGT BELIEVES THAT IT

SHOULD CONCERN ITSELF WITH THE SURVIVAL OF

THIS GROUP "EVEN IF THE

POLITICAL CRISIS SHOULD ELIMINATE YDIGORAS". IT BELIEVES THAT THIS

GROUP SHOULD CONTINUE TO OPERATE IN THE MOUNTAINS IN ORDER TO

ESTABLISH AND STABILIZE ANY DEMOCRATIC REGIME.

H

3. GUTIERREZ SAID THAT HE HAD MET WITH ROGELIO ROORIGUEZ

69. 6 1 Nne

as

TeT tata

-OPEZ, (THIRD SECRETARY OF THE CUBAN EMBASSY IN MEXICO CITY

RODRIGUEZ TOLD GUTIERREZ THAT "THE PENSON FROM CUBA WHO IS GOING TO

TAKE OVER RELATIONS WITH GUATEMALA MERE IN MEXICO, STILL HAD NOT

ARRIVED." RODRIGUEZ TOLD GUTIEF. IE;

THAT HE PLANNED TO SEE MAJOR

ALFONSO PRERA, A LEADER OF THE

NOVEMBER GROUP IN MEXICO, ON 24

MARCH.

dulgent, Dan62

4O FIELD DISSEM: STATE ARMY NAVY AIR FBI LENS CINCARIB CINCLANT.

(ENO DE MESSAGE)

CLASSIFICATION

DISSEMINATION CONTRO

SECRE:

NOFORN/CONTE JED COMTROL

• 1.

34 inaulia

35-9-18

---

## Page 11

9111 810 1

013:80%

Ste mone

GLASSIFIEO MESSAGE

49/41

SECRET

MOnge01188 10818880

cory

Amo Drio

VRE FILE, PES NORT

ВІГПОСІТИОН САРНАЛІТІ!

49: Viest

TAME

EC X5 1 2323554

•=..

R

21.5m28944

DYVOS? PERUUEI ATRACH ZRKSICK

MATCHED

"ITIAL

P

R.0. 1.::

Note:

.строє

contarin

R

1:

10891389

RI COPY AL

17FE301- 332:65

J340U8Y

717-390759

RI COPY

(331

---

## Page 12

SPd" diasirite nessacd

800108.

4 15/42

ISECRET TES

no... 27-....

WridIi"

oeaeadWa1o dad..1e0

÷: 1.: :

ceys lononon

re teienoe de sotDiles aieu

e'etinise

:E8: : 2323392

78:F0 619 C8TE dN5 38:5

2umimn2d9r:

JEENE DYVOSR PERUNEE AU4NCA 234515X

TEF' MEX: 146(@26958) =.

•1. MAVE :CACES REFLECT SUÊJ REP BOETIOEE RODELDO BODTIRUE2

LOPEL, 291-332565.

no wse taacen Gatt! MuStt.

2. 1N95X.

S =:

R

T

* Stated that soew was idiquesticahig Roiles

Rodreguez hapog.

RECOPDG OFFICER STAMP

nlion 18

Thie ?'l.

autli

• S1,.

R.0.

flote:

Un1:

"aicas nittà

SECRETP upalile:

201-337665

---

## Page 13

SECRET

(140A

81l10d 14)

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT

DOCUMENT IDGNTITICATION

EVALVATION

DATE PROCEDARD:

TO: DINOSAIRATED IN

DOCUMENT

DISPOJITION

IT. DAYE

• ФА

RODRIGUEZ LOPEZ, ROGELIO

201-332665

SEX M DOB?

CIT?

201-067886

MEXI -02883

119

• DEC: 62

PI

OCC ??

EDSEL USUALLY DRIVEN BY SUBJ, CUBAN

• DIP AND. SUSPECTED G-2 AGENT. MAR 62.

1222779

PeZR

001

221

11

1

222 779

67365

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

PoB9 887 use errore 100

SECRET

19. 408

---

## Page 14

inept 1862.

iü:O?

ponte

• 13:25

17:10

049

t.12:5

17:34

22 Xept 196.2

de

ore

por el compañero

¡rarão que dos serso para cuba en el relo me atar to cubara.

el cortero de

en

19IDOFIA?

27 Sept 1962

reservó pasaje para

vuelo de marona en

de aviacion.

pidió a

Le tritsi

Treso se

"cedidos

• Los airatos de quian tu ya sa

bes, porque como le gustan mucha les botas de por acs, yo qui-

Lancin el encapo

---

## Page 15

Corale i

EXBAJADA DE CURi.

1j0. ÷ 39. Te!.

11. 13-36.-

10 septionbro 62.-

1134.

126

Entrada 1535.- Ir pregunta pop VEGA y Ha InfOrma quema

no está; pregunt: si quiere.

que el asunto quo le encargó ol sábado, ya está resuelto, que

por fayor le avise a Dn, ROGELIl, que dote no tenga pena, por

que su asunto yà está

ido.

HDs muy bien.

1153. -

1465

M

1-1365

58-9-3-3

---

## Page 16

Jack

Reports

7 Sent 62

Memorandum

for

tra

Subject:

Rogel1J RODRICUEZ, Lopez

that subject has arrived in Mexico. She adied that she was told

not to put Subject on the Diplomatic List, criers from Cuba.

Subj. arrived inMexico on 3 Sept 62 via.

Cubana Airlines - (LIFIRE B/2)

CKS

in Your te

To st nomi portes

LOPEZ

P7365

---

## Page 17

bari

6 July 1962

MEMORANDUM FOR

ZROM

SUDECT

REFERENCE

.:

Legul dacche in

Same Subject

1. CurL

fios crestato idone lieble roforcica io subject.

In Micsico Cili, Guatici d si i.

2 зоні Хорист

secrotary of roa Cursan Enb:a5g

iNDur, on 20 Caricond 1081 nad

arranged lo mosi vai har. dat

Venary Dua Cabno IsMNDEr recaired

un invitation troia lie Cuban Ombiusy so dirand a film sholug ii dio Cuita Cui-

• cural Offica,

To:10 63. Thls lafo. ilon la iroin a senslelve rollabio scurca

and should so be disecminated outilde your organizarion.

Orly - Addrosses

cc - Ileison with La

Rice - 50-2-3=3 (Index mes)

#3243

C-7365

---

## Page 18

Date:

To:

From:

Subject:

July 2, 1962

CONSIDENTIAL

This docusin, is for the use of your

agency ony and noither it norite

contents ghesid be surther distributed

without appropriate authorization.

A source has advised that captioned irdividual,

described as a Cubag national, is reportedly a resident of the

He allegedly makes frequent trips to

state of devada: on occasions has traveled fror Mexico

fron Sevadia, and

to Cuba, returning to the United States via Mexico.

phile in lexico City, captioned individual reportedly

resides with

The source advised that

frequently visits Havana, having made as many

as eight to ten trips sonthly.

This office would be most appreciative of any intorma

tion you ray be able to furnish concerning the activities of

51: -9-3.3

74.662

105-3013

an are pilate, i

Corter ti!

on 26 Sept!

the tim

to geese

COP

---

## Page 19

SICERPI

D3A -11277

28 May 1962

FOREION POLITICA: MATTERS - CUBA

I.

PERSONNEL, ASSIGNED TO CUBLY EMBASSY, MEXICO CITY

that BOGJUTO RODRIGUEZ. Third Secretary of'the Cuban Embassy In Merdeo

sity, returned to Havana, Cuba •.... on May S. 1,62.

RODRICUS, said that he will renain in hia country for a year and wil

serve the socialiat government of Prime Minister FIDEL CASTRO.

SXCERPI

DBA-11277

28 May 1962

---

## Page 20

Dida

Tü

C123

DISZ:

ja..

.

''d...

d.....:~.

.".

chardra a...

1054204124

"a120

÷ :

..S =.

"ci:

. i.

sie bund

ledansd.

....

'x...

hamedenthodede

....

-listi win

---

## Page 21

LIFIRE RS

Fonilio,

RUNAGUGE

Liptil

PiFir 6a1

P1345

P Rigte Roerne oge,

---

## Page 22

¡ritorne io.

DE:

001609

SALIDA DE UN CUPANO.

Mayo 7, 62.

FICIA:

H:3H058

n ol Vuclo i 465 de la vano cubionu de iviación,

ue salis con dostino a la iab.no, Cubo el die

dol actuai a loo 15.03 borno, sal16 a.

1'9 años, soltero, cubano, con Visa Diplomitica

334 dol lo/5/62 expodida en la Habana, Cuba.

24706 OPERATIVOS®

01 1. 0.

19-7365

---

## Page 23

SECRET

MEMORANDUM FOR THE FILE:

FROM:

SUBJECT:

1. On 11 May 1962 BENADUM (P) reported that LITEMPO/1

had said that Rogelio RODRIGUEZ left Mexico (PCS) on 4 May

1962.

2. Manuel E. VEGA Perez replaced Rogelio RODRIGUEZ in

the Cuban Embassy, according to LITEMPO/1.

Distribution:

Orig - Rogelio RODRIGUEZ P-

1 - Manuel E. VEGA Perer P-

1 - LITEMPO/Prod.

SECRET

9-7365

---

## Page 24

17:27

14:53

, tray 62

??"

canela

ejó

73S35

"i::

mercato,

toảs

fi.::

acit verda

:.

til?

ciclor

1, pse

c01aaie0

rendo? e los 10:0) lisa

La

indi: ros

üc.

13

pal

29021

1lasa

tenro

1::

habia

poracad:

llan

sach

el

i1.

•: 1e

118:2

obatina

7 may 62

CATO L22

CU 70.

piCo

cr n.

Societ

sitarton

gue

indis

2500011

Orto.

Me caes cateres

116c:

de la:

donde

hacen

paratod

30

---

## Page 25

EXCERPE

REPORT NO.

HM4-6343

1 May 1962

CUSAN ASSISTANCE AND INTERVENTION IN THE

GUATEMALAN. POLITICAL STUATION

Appraisal of Content: 2

•• Fernandes L Csmir FERNANDE. Concepcion, Cuban Communist

said that he first net with Rogello Rodtiguez Lopez, Third Secretary

or the Cuban Embassy in Mexico, and with other trusted members of the

Cuban Embassy abd explained the determination of the 13 November group

in Mexico to ald the Guatemalan revolution.

According to Fernandez,

Habana was consulted and Castro gave instructions that assistance be

given Immediately to the 13 November group and that encouragement should

EXCERPI

HMA 6343

1 May 1962

---

## Page 26

27 April 62.

Ruson pacerto

ante guama

DоE BBO1о Con 00 guane

u8 va Blono la notaril es

Report

ad polien vienes.

mitstế que

0B6200 378

Dama "'(2956)

14:27

5015,

dic:

1º2g

jero

le pide.

•:;:

uns COC2

cn

31. CC.

1:0E: C0

ЧО. 3. CS

7.09

rac

.'.:

toy verd"

Cinciae

inclusive

se dirige

neoirienc

28úprie úpri 2

acrito eschupin;

1n11oó a

ide recesite habl

: 1

I0 h2 salido

13

Puede sing

no

5000 2

C.""

proce lo divá

an dente ede sale alde de a

Está seguro cuel

: 2130n 30 TH0 5/0 & 64001 61 1001

Indos

ito cree que vuelto por lo mando.

20

1'!r!

'С"

MC 90

In olvidnen de ma tinit-

viato ayca, t ô:

una porción do cosas, i co-

cuando".

7117.01

sono acaretiry cosate

poco que ell

cuotty tess

"!E

conicita un lark: ruden tods aucio e

o3r0 cn rote caso

liamáadolo

y le habia con mucho 3o

* may 62

11:02

"AT

*.-

10 001

: €

' C

tado

Bucciiroi:

agui,

Dir tod

le clant

ina los cohores

con

36 ce1

is :

Ecualo:"

, У

sito: desporando

la crossicción de •denciales y toro e32,

• 1.1.

---

## Page 27

Gestiones

Lils

290.m

Entrada a lia 1i50ho.- IF Horul1o/ Moirlos -do 1u En-

bijada de Cubi- por Alexandror,- 357= IID que ilotandror está

muy ocupado, que el la lianará man tardo - Rogollos que no que

que por eso le llamaba•= II! c:terad©•

P-7365

---

## Page 28

14:36

17 Apr 62

Mentre-

Desáa Cuba, ol nuoro SabaJador LACHUON sanilestó a su esposa

GlacIS, quion justo oon

la hija de scoo yu do oncuasza ei

Méxtoo, que para 8l dia jo osiará aqui,

GUIS A SU VES 1.

dioá que ajor se rocibian las órdonos de traslodi do 8005

y quo osta mtine culon

113

23 apr 62

19345

11:5.5

201.6'3

meridor

isie

que

ahore

le que

?Lit

'.

lee berve;

a i

.." la trilo.

3.4

Fora

Honte nus

qUO

lebe:.

i on estas

y97e1 juve d1

salira rualo a.or.c0 e'

dia 30:

un's lidroes

11N2A0252

011+0

mand

a:ce

13:55

Lapronta

por alla

ile!s

sedia

T950/78 de 15

in infar dico que a asa hors

00n0 1 165 12:301%.

+010 60-408080

hordina)

6474

6:5 Cpu 6 2

Un scoTo del restaurato (1rolo do qualo con ROANo-

Guez de la sabajado Cabra, on al sentieo de que e la tie

me do a ro eron unas barbes postaleates & por da tardo ban

poguido baedendo lo nisno y arrojedo & 10 vay unao Sola

Ilad dei Enbajsior Fortionto algo indecentes, popo

a sayore dellos.

Tobao menifoato qua fu esten covesusoro

dos a ovas pandojados.

20124

C1r0's.

ROCKLIO indied que en

votal do haley senes asstoultades do eserto oleosacrla

en la Enbajada Cabora, HBCUr all$ esissa.

---

## Page 29

93.

ENHAJADA CUHANA,= 14-92-14.

17-abrt1-62.

M1J-L1],9

-1365

Entrada A 1a8 1024h8 - Rojas COnL

1n dico que to

ne boletos para olla sú hija y Rogello Rodrigues para la laba

120 .

le pregunta que al la tasdiadan.-

_To que of

que a dondé.- Xiom que no sabe, que ni el embajador

lo sabes que ella necesita saber porque tione que llevar bota

de milioiana, que no hay, n1 platola..

que a poco va

de miliciana.-

que al, que a olla le duelo muchíaimo

el traslado porque olla adora aquí porque tiene michoa am

608.

que al no so porría arrorlar oso y que a quien

van a

mandar on au lugar..

que no abo

hace là aolaración que Rogolio tiono señora y que ontá aquí...

Rojas, que no mandan boleto para la señora y que Rogollo no

cosita quo lo arrogle lueço. Quo al a Rogollo tamblén lo tras

ladan..

que sí. - Hojass que al tampoco subo a donde.

yeso tampoco sabe, que a lo mojor os a Cuba. Que ella

tondrá que irse con los embajadores.• Rojas: que entoneos le

dipa a Rogolto que urreglo lo del boleto de su señora.-

* que también tienon orden de pasajo para Ester Gatilán

Rosales, para que lo avisen. l

1 nun Later Gavilab os

la mujor do logollo - quo dice Dorta.

a que entonces que

da soluctonado el probleria.--

provunta que di sotá

porque tieno que hablar con el con urgencia o con

alcuno de la couisión.--- 151..1

Teon

lo dico

que ya sabe que están

el probleua del oquipajo de ellos

que a Cuba no se

puedo mundar nada por cobrar y que hay que

pagar el

que lo dijo

que iba a hablar con

alguien en

la Hahana

pira vor couo solucionaban esos que hoy

recibió un radio y que tione que contostarlo ursontos que la

única menera que tiene que hacer es visarles la cantidad de

equipaje que

tienon y que con una orden de MINREX puedo docum

---

## Page 30

- 2 -

montarse ol equipaje poro que para oso recoalta saber cunto

equipajo llevan,

juo la va a docir la cantidad que

se paçó por exceso

que os lo únten que lo puede de

ofr.... que fueron 487

dólaros poro que lo dejaror en J65 dom

quo oso paço do h120

de Guayaquill a México.

que doce..

a viajar

Juntas aln Habana.

apo al aaas dood persona van

]'que of -= que

con esa información un a hacer un cálculo de ouantos kiloa

sos para mandar, un radio a la linbann porque hay que mandar

una orden de Canjo a linros para que do queda iвar.-

se le puedo llamar al teléfono

que no pueda sor porque deben de ser sole ele

que es 140008.

---

## Page 31

SECRET

"CREaldo", conceralas Cunteenlin

murrilla cotivities.

ANALIST

CHOSE MATERRCO TO THIS FILE..

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

DOCLUENT

IDENTICALION

RI FILE, NO.

50

6

3013

DISPATCH ON SOURCE, DOC

TA-15161(72542) 17 Apro 66

SOURCE CRISTONE

LINLUCK

DISSEMINATED IN

JOATE

DOCUMENT, UISPOSITION

TRANSFERDED TO

RI FILE NO.

PERTINENT INFORMATION

Rogeli> RODRIGUEZ$

mentioned pare o

Ist. paragraph)

(Reported

to be trusted by Cuban Embo, Nex. City

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

1365

p-7369

SECRET

8J•881

---

## Page 32

13805

Ora -

pariduo que dijo air do la Pa, precuaté a arasara ao

in babej

cars sabana an la sirda 1 93

e sastrile te seccitleros

51: 1031086

100211012a168 206 Ni en9 220

121:9010000 200

te pidi

52 122

eu 2.10 1a

1$ 152.99

pa: da :i stores se atos inco.

a1

¿undo rooogor las do: rejicelas que antías

podado, o dos

El EJéruido Nabelio y Marla 11

*Eraser.

ECGBW0 16010a 403

$j6.4:8

po:→ que

la

Bi sadipicio dico que

110 Laperta 30 de inoriGinen: Marta 11

inti

80: 71.949

eloncou o las 17000 ho, parará por la SaDa, do.

12 apuil 62:

: 10122 VI

ESFEJEL progunto

Be lo dd

•Lo que Teadre que

operar hasta matana, pdea la sure que pres

le'e

ero esta nuova, na tiene conge

ESPEJEL piden

OSELIO la liata de racionalentoa

Ra nator se dirija a TBRE

SAL PROFSZA

•10:10

MARTA PALAZO

TED entre

aoabre del úrupo do Mutarea Inrita a POdrEus-

a una despejida que ofreces a basta

DE TORTURDO el sartoa 1? a las 18,00 ks. l306r deus

(5986)

110,50

Del Coresonted de

EsTadiones aterron que di

be al abajador ACKES Tan 12:

'Copa, 7.79

11.07

VERGARA pregunto

Monarse por

SCOSTO oroe que 81, adosas di 10 avIsa

VERGARA qu'aro Iclormarlo Bobio

an sauato

11:23

RABADAN del parlódios

"Yerdados" pregantó aRcaR: IO DOnaY0033

odno.1 parectó la publicasion y que opina de lo de

RE 52.

BOGEL"

• que está blos.

RASADAL agroga qua dobed pasa:

PJGRi1O lo cita fare al luseo pronoss.

17 ap 62

JORDANS

NJEt

pasacalz, de la Rabajeda Cubano, que ya Legaren Isa orácazo

To paggje papa ella y su baja, ad omo par tando idio

тект

setere.

C*N0 8530119 10 19481888

TOMARA estento, arrogente de

wot sitht

---

## Page 33

9:56

19:30

:12:27

12:50

12:59

19:10

Puditl, Mirieto Vicas

22pr. 62

Jules, con acento cubano, preguntó a la cubana "3223A FROBS-

cA que dey.: P5R.SA readondo que har cantidad de cosas, pero

er ¿eneral todo Sien, MDITU dice que "tenenos que haolar

mucho"

TERESA espera quA 8e3. boy.

JUDITH pregunta cóno ep

En BasarA y que al reciblo su carta.

T-PISA se la entrego

persoralmente.

Asiriano le pregunta como dejo a la familia

alla y córo está el j'orialento.. J'DITH resconde que toda ls

laatlla bien y el cortalento está magnifico.

TERIA le pro-

gunta que cuándo llegó.

JUDITY llegó el sábado en la tarde

esturo tratando de loonlisarla. "PitSA se pasó todo el

¿so en Puebla. Malilano le pregunta ua si conoce a una jo

Ren MARCA, costarricense, de Frenga latina y que está caaada

cor al Priser Jecretirlo

"de aqui"• JU'ITH no la recuerda.

TEASSA AEdiga que MaltA va a Tellr pronto, pues ahora está

en La Babana esperando un becé y cuando venga se la presenta

JaIT pregunta por RoJC.

fais: conteata que a ROGE

11o so lo be riato bog.

3. NITile urge mucho bablar con

el y le pijo a triasa se lo diga asi tan pronto coro lo vea.

Cason inclea que inmediatamente que venga H00SIO Lo comu

alcaró con JUDITH

sapril. 62

Méx1a0, Dol. las publicadiones y revista que enrían de

La Habana, Pr 0F7.10 tonó

MAIZ, desdo la porteria, manifiesta a ROGELIO HODRIGUER

QUe lO buSCa MAURICIO AREDOLLII. HOGLLIO OrOPA que

Jo pasen.

SIBERTO SONURRRAS pregunta a 3000K L

AMAZO que sabe

neros Col eay.e0 089 en 10

Cuenca Tol Balsas. PAWAYO

responde que

ne ha visto a

CUANTENOC, pOrO Esguramente

tratar al sounto.,

LUIS MACRES COpArA a ROGELIOROSRICUEE en La Certerla de

la habajAda. ROCELIO bajara a yerTo

7aps 62

rabajado

wano Que lo tiendasy

do mateilal 7 2ue penos

tratario.

8102a

MOZuSO pasará a var

ch aguir aug laboriasta qe

Mets o sitoria;

---

## Page 34

DATE:

CITE:

TO

01 APR 62

771

FRACEUENCE:

IN NVIBER:

• INFO:

RUTINE

7656=

to her

DIR

BEAT HYAB

EE: A.

7640 (NOT SENT

((SIN 7490)

B.

7421 (NOT SENT

(IN 6992))

102.0

•Je HYAB RETURNED

RES TRIP 29 MARCH VIA GUEST FLT 270.

AS CANTED 55,000 RECEIVED FROM SOUTET EMBASSY THROUGH E

THESE FUNDS. TO BE USED BY PDP FOR TRIPS TO VARIOUS CONGRESS

INCLUDING FORTHCOMING KOMSOMOL CONGRESS, WHICH HYAB BELIEVES WILL BE

KEED IN MOSCOW: PDP WILL SEND ONE DELEGATE.

2. ON RETURN FLIGHT HYAB HAD LONG CONVERSATION WITH

STATED TOP

CP REQUIREMENT

163

IS OBTAIN ALL POSSIBLE INFO ON U.S• TRAINING BASES IN CANAL ZONE,

PASTICULARLY ANY TRAINING LATIN AMERICANS IN ANTI-GUERRILLA WARFARE

SLICH IN PART TO BE UTILIZED AS INSTRUCTIONS VENEZUELAN COMMUNIST

GUERRILLAS AS WELL AS TO UTILIZE INFO TO COUNTER ANTI COMMUNIST i. c

• GUERRILLAS

in 365

3Ö HYA8 FURTHER IDENTIFLED QUOT

UNQUOTE (REPORTED REF B)

AS SOGELTO ENU, CUBAN EROSSY FUNCTIONARS IN MEXI AND WAS SHOWN CP

QUOTE SAFEHOUSE UNQUOTE AT

4. HYAB ALSO RECEIVED GENERAL BRIEFING ON

CP STRATEGY AND

POLICY LINE FROM I

WHO FOLLOWING SITUATION CLOSELY.

INTEL CABLE TO

'OLLOW. POUCHING DETAILS•

END OF MESSAGE

his

Bud:

SIS":

01/2045Z

SUBJECT FILS

COMMO

CHRONO

IT IS FORBIDLEN TO COPY Ca

328-4-515

REPRODUCE THIS MESSAGE.

2365

---

## Page 35

DAY&

1O

FROM

ACTION"" IN 2

INFO

081

29 MAR l2

• DIRECTOR

CLASSIED MESSAGE

SECRET

2.

ROUTING

a doria 69098

• 10/012,9/e 9/62

MAR 29 irjurZ 02

ROUTINE

IN 10495

10653/306,340

DIR

INFO

CITE

5408

INTEL

SUPDATA LINGUCK FROM VICTOR MANUEL GUTIERREZ. RE PARA THO PAT

SENT CONGRATULATIONS TO LINLUCK FOR HIS WORK AND OFFICIALLY.

CONFIRMED FAGT HE SHOULA CONTINUE HANDLE EXELUSIVELY PURCHASE

WEAPONS AND MILITARY EQUIPMENT OUT TO DE VERY CAREFUL ABOUT MIS

PERSONAL SECURITY FILEO 290005Z REPORT CLASS SECRET NOFORN

CONTINUO CONTROL 1484 6283)

FUNJECT VIEWS OF THE

POT ON TI POLITICAL SITUATION IN GUATEMALA DON'T MARCH 621

24 MARCH GO APR 2 PERSON (11) WITH GOOD

CONNECIRONG I DATEMALAN EXILE CIRCLES IN MEXICO

RODKIGEZ

Lopez

IW COMMINS.

"RILLASING IWO

MASUD ON",

TDCS

FRECEDENCE

PENNY

LINLIA

"NICTION DY OTHLE THAN ISSUING QUILE IS PROMIBITID.

---

## Page 36

FECRADINFORMATION REPORT CIEGRANU

CENTRAL INTILLIGENCE AGENCY

SECRET

COUNIRY

POT.. VIIWS ON THE FOLLIU

•GRATINALA

11OH.

ABÓTON CONTRANS

NOFORISCONEINED-COMTROL:

ALIURI NU.

TDOS -jx0, 346.

- DATE DISER 1) MARiA 1062

PRECIDiNCE HUUT INT

• RISERENCES

IN 10495

MATE Of

PLACE A

DAlE ACO

"PPRAISAL

SOURCE

24 MANGA IDGE

' 99H0 1066)

THE I UNEVALUALLDINDAMANON SOURÇE GRANN

RE LA ININ APPRAISAI DE ITTATINI IS LUMPATIVE

lo VICTOR MINAL GUTIERO, LENOS DE PREDIO AIATIAULIEIO

2L MARCIANAS CAR MOR IN GUAIMALA REUTIS"TAL SAY IN. WINN INIC.

GUERRILLA MONT MAS DEVIOPEO MERCO ARGOR: YO DUE DEO, TE

MILE 13 NOV MALA GRANDO CANARIO O DE CORNIME DOROD AUTAR'S SO

Lopez

LEUCE PARTY) LEADEO AY ANDE PAR YEVADA SIN INTEGERES AO

•78E882

LATIR COPHROLS

SECRET

NOFOR CONTRAJED CONTROL

ELEC INFORMATION REPORT DELGRAN

1: 5810062

35-4-8

12811t62

---

## Page 37

;

AMPICATIN

SECRET

(Whos Filled day

NOFORA/CONTINUED CONTROL

IDCS -3/100;340

12202

РАФЕ

FORCEO TO FIGHU WIEN CONDITIONO WERE NOT AVANTAGIS FOR TUIEM.

ACCORDING TO THE POT THE RESULTS WERE DISASTINUS, WITH THE LOSS

OF "MIDOLE RANK COMMUNIST PARTY MENDERS AND NATIONAL LEADERS."

THE POT CONSIDERS IT A "MIRACLE" THAT PAZ TEJADA WAS ABLE TO ESCAPE.

HOWEVER, THE POT STILL BELIEVES THAT THE GOVERNMENT OF MIGUEL

YOIGORAS FUENTES, PRESIDENT OF GUATEMALA, WILL SOON FALLO

2O THE MAIN HOPE

OF THE POT NOW HINGES ON THE ACTIONS OF THE

GUERRILLA GROUP ORGANIZEO AND ARIED IN MEXICO. (FICLO COMMENT:

¡ 88 HAS DEEN REPORTED PREVIOUSLY THAT THE 13 NOVEMBER GROUP IN MEXICO

MAD CONSCO THE MEXICAN/GUATEMALAN DORDER SUCCESSFULLY AND MAO

ESIAILISHED A SECOND GUERRILLA FRONTO THE PUT BELIEVES THAT IT.

SHOULO CONCERN ITSELE WITH THE SURVIVAL ON TUD: GRIP LEVEN IF THE

POLITICAL ¡RISIS SIDULO ELIMINATE YOIGORAS", IT INLIEVES THAT THIS

CANSJI SHOULD CONTINUC TO OFFRATE IN TIC MOUNTAIN: IN ORDER TO

• LOBALION AND CHABLIGE ANY DEACAIDE MODIE.

•3: GUTIERREZ SAID THAT HE HAD MET WITH ROGELIO RODRIGUEZ

LOPEZ, THIRO SECRETARY OF THE CUBAN EMBASSY IN MEXICO CITY.

RODRIQUEZ TOLD GUTIERREZ THAT "THE PERSON FROM CUBA WHO IS GOING TO

TAKE OVER RELATIONS WITH GUATEMALA

] STILL MAD NOT

• ARRIVED."' RODRIGUEZ TOLD GUTIERREZ/ THAT HE PLANNED TO SEE MAJOR

ALFONSO PRERA, A LEADER OF THE 13 MOVEMBER GROUP IN MEXICO, ON 24

MARCH.

SECRET

FIELO DISSEM: STATE AANY HAVE MIR FUI LENS CINCARIS LINELANT.

LEND OF MESSAGE)

САЛЛІСАЙОЙ МОЛТАРТАТІ

NOFORE CONTINUED CONTROL 2 10 402/1

Г8.2.

---

## Page 38

841•

899.

939.

EMBAJADA DE CUBA.-

M 11, L 11. Tol, 14-42-37.-

29 marzo 62 ; -

Entrada 1232. --

con ROGELIO (emplozan a hablar

on el númoro 871) pára recordarlo que antes de ayor habló -

con 6l y 1o pidió que lo llovara una cosa, pero no ha podi-

do pasar porque no tieno trompo, poro ellos"quedaron do lla

•marle dota mailana a su casa y no lo ilanaron y el otro aun

to está por llegar y quedó pendiento haita ol Juoveas que -

•s fundamental que le 1lnmen para arreglar eno

ROGELIO

profunta el no juedo pasar por la Bubajada y indica-

que nó, que no tiono nada do tlempo, que los diga que lo ha

blen a su casa hoy a las 16.00 ho porque olla salo mañana y

no lo da tiempo para nadas que lo que ROGELIO lo pidió, se-

1o entroguo a la porsona que le tione que llovar la otra -

cosa.

ROGELIO acepta, 899.-

Entrada 1239.-

COn ROGELIO para plati-

carlo que ha tenido malna notiolas de au fanilia, pregunta

que hay dol bolotin y ROGELIO indica que todavía no salo,

que at gusta le puodo llevar algunos números «trazados que-

€1 tiene.

que al, porque le urgen, que aunque

sea el anterior.

ROGELIO acopta y dico que se los 110-

varía ol sábado.

que a él lo gustaría que fuera

hoy mlano.

ROGELIOs que tiene nuchos compromisos y no

puede salir y no. se los podría llevar personalmonte.

¡regunta at ya sabo lo que lo sucedió a su hormano.

ROGELIO

dico quo sí, pero que lo gustaría que lo contara

qué tuó lo que lo sucedió.

¿ que al, que por

oso quería contarlo lo que lo pasó, por su esposa y todo,

adendo todos 108 niños cayoron en cana y él creé que no tio

nen salvación y la cosa os cravo, pide vaya . su casa hoy -

mismo •

ROGELIO, que trá como A las 17.00 k.

Costá do souerdo, agregando que aal hablará con su horma-

no y lo rocomiende "al médico, aquel que no dijo".

ROGELIO acopta, - 939.-

Entras - con non 120 nola roer 5

Entrada, - HP Con ROOILIO para recordarle que habló con

61 haco como dos meses pidióndole unos ejomplares de la Obra

---

## Page 39

1054.

2-

Revoluclonaria, el númoro 26, del diacurao de FIDEL CASTRO:

quo ya lo

suciuló y lo durió acuso de

rocibo por correoj

profunta al La Obra Rovoluedonarla ya oditó la socunda de-

claración de La Habana®

ROGELIO: que no, que ollos elo

nen el bulotin do Informución de la Embajada, en dondo está

Impross la segunda declaración de La Habana®

HE JAdo •

lo lucilite un númoro 1qual de ajomplares, es decir 29.

ROGELIO acepta:y pide su nombre

y dirooción.

7 Avenida UNO número 76, Mansana 6, Colonia Edrisaatón,

México 21+

ROGELIO toma nota.

que a 61-

Le Interosarla Vialtar Cuba, pero no sabe al haya manera de

1f a los fostojos dol 26 de Jullo, ya que en ocasiones anto

riores so han hocho invitaciones a ostudiantos de la Univer

sidad y 61 quintora ouber al hoy habrá oportunidad do 1r. -

ROGELIOs que él ored que so noguirí ol momo sistena de 1n-

vitacionés, ques dotas vienen de Cuba y ollos untoamento -

• trasladan al Instituto Cubano de Amistad con los Puebloo,

AD*

las peticlones de los que desean Ir a Cuba.

pregunta cuál es el conducto para hacer la soldeltud y ROGE

LIO le suglero mando una carta a la Embajada dirigido al

EmbaJadore

agradoce la información, agroganlo-

que on cuanto lo lloguen las revistas, le avisará.

ROGE

110 aceptar 984.9

Entrada 1420.=

soltelta hablar con ROGELIO Y =

AD indica que fué a buscarlo a la portoría, pero le informa

ron que ya salló para au casa; que si susta quedo dejarlo

el recado y

Llamo como a las 16.30 k.

i que

lo diga que lo ha llamado a partir do las 11.00 lo como 10-

Indioó, tres vocos, que on para el asunto do laa reviatas, -

que ROGILIO ya sabe, pero quistera hablar con él thora ale

m0 •

• HD toma nota dol rocado y lide que hublo a las

16.30 k.

acopta.- 1083-=

---

## Page 40

DATE:

TO :

CITE:

SECBET

CRYPTO SECURITIL DOES.NOI APPIY: HANDLE-AS SECRET- CORRES

20 KA?CH 2962

PRECEDENCE: TOUTINE

INFO:

PACT INET 346

0408

31506,

TOCS

ural

SOID:TA LIMECK II"

TE PUM 1O IC. STY COUGRITIL.TONS

L'XCLLIVELY

_TOIS NDITLTY EWITTIT UT TO BE VITY CATOITE ANODY INS

FERT LAL ESCORTY.

FIE 250005₴

RETORT CASS SECET ETON COUNTES CITOL II Ben3I

OF TIL ICT OU TE. TOLWICA, CATLA TON IN GUATEIRA TOI 24 KACH 19621

Sichi soircis

J24 LUNCH 1962 AYA 2 TEICON (D) ETIE OOS COIGEGMIONO NI CTANILAN EXILE

CIRGES II I:100.

DO PICTUR : AIRES CUISGE, IMMI OS TIE TATIO CURIALTICO DIT. TRABIO (TOT -

CURELLE COUILUI JACTT) IN IEXICO, SAIE ON 26 LATCH THAT ME TET IN GURCULA

RUADES II: DIS LA MICH TI GERILLA FICHT ILS DUT LOLID TEÉO ACCORDOIG D TUE

ICE, TIT RICULES OF EN : CUENTILLA FICUTIO TAVE BOT BUTH CICCERSIUL ISCAUSS MIS 13

NOVIER COOP (ZAR C Ti 13 LUXE DE 1960 ATTES TO OVIICE TE CUARAN

COVIRGIE) EARCO DY MARCO AIGUIRO CE/COSA, IS DE AN ACOU DNCE FINT TIE: JOLIRICAL

CORCEITS OP

LE COLLUNIST STRIGCIE, TE: ICE ACO TEGOTO SES TEE COSTISTE AD

LOIRES ON TA: CAETIDO DE UNIDAD IIVOLUCIUNATIO (TUR - STRAT LEFTIT TAITY) MANED

ATTANTISLOLS FOR TITIO

1C00ZJEE TO TI PET ME ACUIS MIRE DICASTINES, TIEN XTE

CORSILLES IT A TICLE TUS FAL TIJADATAS AMETO PICASA LORNER, TI; IOT MILI

ORIG OFF:

DIST :

CONNO

CHRONO

SUBJ FILE:

COORD OFF:

RELEASING-OEE,

1-7365

IT IS FORBIDDEN TO COPY OR REPRODUCE THIS MESSAGE

SECRET

---

## Page 41

DATE:

TO '•:

CITE:

SECRET

SECURITY DOES NOI APPLY. HANDLE AS SECRET CORRESO

PRECEDENCE:

INFO:

1408

PACE 190

20. THE MIN BOIS OP ME IOT ETT FISCEC ON TE IIIORE GE TIF. CENTLIA GROUP

RISICIATI GE SULTI LICA SILI BILE00 ITELI OICOT MI CORY CI GAZINSO

TVOLLITOI MIL LI MEATE INCEO SIL 20 TATAOS INS ILM ATTUI SINDICO GIACINT IN

OIERATE IN JE LDELTAINO IN ONDER TU ETARLIJI MIR CTI

3O COTTEMUZ SAIO MAT E: BAD HER VITA IDOLIANE

NY ILOSCATIC FECITA

FISON FIDI CURL WO I3 CONG TO TE OVER TULLIUS MTH CENSUA IN HICO

STILL HAD INT ARATED EDONICUEZ TOLO CUTINEN CIE LI: ELIADTOSI LADOR

ALFONSO ICA, A LATER OF TAG IS INVIZIOR GIUP IU LICCO, CE 24 2Л.CT.

ORIG. OFT: IIS

DIST:

SUBJ FILE: 1= chrone

COMMO

I- 20001-0300

CHRONO

COORD OFF:

IJ3

RELEASING-OFF :

FCC

IT IS FORBIDDEN TO COPY OR RIPRODUCE THIS MESSAGE

SECRET

---

## Page 42

2414r 62

10:45

ortoro de la labajado Debena dijo a

OCELIOSCODHICES

no aill está se persuno que quiero verlo

ROGRE1O progaasa

MAIZ dião que ao lo conoce, pero que

¡lobo que Rolliao do goluda.

hos se bará.

10:57 141) Ta individua'oon socato sudaasricano

tal vos guatoausodo.

de noadre.

L'Indios a BOGELIO RODRIGUEZ de la labajadu

Cabara, que tiero una coss nriente que darte.

al trater de

1cL barenir an lugur para varo,

pregunta BOOBITO que"ul

tir"≤ recuerda ol dardia o en la laja".

20:00 ha a buscarlo.

AL dospudireel

argente:

-451)

12

.i..

::.:

26 mar 6%

:* 1:4

1: 1-99-

ins paqueten

se entere.

12:20

12:49

27 Mar 62

sen soento pulonerione,

pidio al subano fourrIDed

DRIGUEZ 10 lIeve ol

boletin.

ROGENLO aan1:1o0sa que 19710

Ilogado, pero que lo envtará los materiales

"6D08 190N 1p

ted tanto lo interesan®®

% 4

RICARDO, CON aCeptO CaparO, LAdICÓ a RIGILIOIHODRIQUEE que

ayer. lo astavo esperasão.

ROGBLIO no podo 15, pero el Jueves

13:27

28 mner62

portero de la Embajada de Cuba, annaelo a ROGELIO RODRI

GURZ one alli lo están esperando

ROGELIO Irá a la porterla a recidarios.

13:20,."

24 mir 62

aa señorn

caLonOnk que palo miana y mio for laver lo nauda

eas persona les

ca noonlo argentino, 1ads es el sabr

00089 gua y te

=Con ti

---

## Page 43

13 19

17:35

16:36

10:04

16:45

15 Tick 19622

in Labaisda cucass,

SHA

or porces

En den

jabla cara comunicarle go; es

*:15H000

diJeron "

FOT.

i.":

901

cor dete

ultiac thra ver d:

8942S.1

BiBlios:

jregurid

coso t cuA bord lo pueden ancoria".

si eje.

16 March i9 602

Ho parta de

CREO TONTES, lOS

sObEs para prensA Latino que 10:

19 de Cuba ph asrogad

alteral, EDdrLIO dico que el isrugara entá abertado ç0

•1 Babajad0., y que posteriorendo lierará enes nosros

• .

19 mar.6

en

el sentido de que os urgonte que e

comunique

¡¡ casará el recado.

subst

110

SOROT

10 ves

desea vario.

10:20 19627

"Ped

,0c

and se la perioris osta

929

20.5t:804.

que ani

DÜTLETI

da

QAtA

0,88=5,9 que

1o ntgs.

genesalen 2009102: 1 901113

SOS RE!

ROGRITO

123 MarGa

Dasde la porteria l

la Habajada Cubana,

разет.

indioó

ahi outea

---

## Page 44

LIENVOY-IGNIARD2

10:17

Lo moso de la Babalada Cabana, dosda las oficloas

du Prensa Intina dice a

que no ha podido

recoger el bulto porque la persona que lo tiene so ha

Merado.

le ordena que lo eupero, y que la diga

que ROGELIO tiene el material para Panorama

Boonónico y que sando a una periona.

- 4527379880 2a, 8, 'lofwe

12822

COauRiCa a ROGELIO RODRIGUEZ que

en In portería, ROGELIO Irá a verlo.

está

13:16

comunica a BOGSLIO RODRIGUEZ que abí está ma imakeeto

¡ee que viene de la Propal a desda hablar con 81.

ROGBIJO ordena que lo pases.

6.7365

Roselio PosaduEz Lopez

---

## Page 45

td-nn0d

Memorantum for the record

Subject:

Rosello ADRIdIE? LOpOZ

i7 IUJ.13 March, LITNIIT-2 reported that

Subject is ilving at

Tol: 25-08-45.

Subj 18 using an Edsel alta alacas D-314. On occasions Subj

loaves his car in driverst and walks to imbassyaor takes a cab.

CKS

...

FILE :

Rogel lo RODRIGUZ L.

---

## Page 46

AITII.

Neo:

CiT:

Sist

12 Man142

L sociali 20 ra

BADO THI

ME GATO HS ESTALINEI NICI

Y285PN0KA CATE ION THE SUNEY ME POLO MU.

VOTOS ESTEL

HY DEVONTAD TU INSEN 1h3

ITO KELE PICHTO

038 0 L

PE MATHLURIS ALLICA METUGES, AUD DUEI

EN JUAN HB COULD SAID IS ORADA ASSISINBA

S MRIDO, NO HIS NA CIONAD HOD

MAS IRTITEO TU SEAD SI9 PINTLI SU PUNCE AND NÃO DIVIS UE BAUSAND DULLAHS 0EN 518

TONE DO PINLES 5116 II. MUS GUI ALGO ¡LAS G, OIVX SIL MORA SCOLAS

" Rama, 0(3440-900897 zo

Acar Ort:

KALBASISO OFF:

DIST:

CONMO

CHIONO

SUbJ FiLE:

Зі соё і

P-7365

---

## Page 47

∞ pe

Tur de Margo de 1962

RECLIFICACIUN DIRECCION SE. RUGELIO RODRIGUEZ LOPEZ

INFORAS

La ¿dracción del señor Rogelio Rodriquez López es Calzado de Tacu

baya o 74 Dtso. 503, con teléfone 25-18-45.

En el Interión que corresponde a su departamento está el nombre -

de Diego Gin110.

COMENIARIOSI señor Rogello Rodriguez López trad el a-utonovil Essel, placa. -

D-314, pero por lo regular va a la Embajada caminando ya que le que

da a cuatro cuadras de su dondeilie.

Marie: 1176-1712

f-7365

Arque Reser te

---

## Page 48

INFORME:

Lo de Serzo do 1962

VECINOS DEL SENOR RUGELIO RUDRIGUEZ LOP54

Los nombres que aparecen en el interfón del ediiiclo marcado con

¡el númern 74 de la calzada de Tacubaya ann los alguientes;

Hay muchos departamentos que no tienen noabre están ocupados De

In no aparecen los nombres de las personas.

---

## Page 49

de Larzo de 196

AFORME

LOCAUTZACION DUATCILIO SH-HUGALTO RUDHTGUEZ LOPEZ

INFORME:

El señor Rogello Rodriguez López vive en el departamento que ocu

paba ol anher, Hactar Pascual Callo, Tucubaya 971 DeO con el -

tel68ono 25 45-00*

COMENTARIUJunto al departamento ocupado por el señor Rogelio Rodriguez Ló-

pez rentan un departamento, Informan sobre 61, 10-98-52 señor Joa-

quin.

---

## Page 50

091136

20:12

ROGELIO BODRIQUEZ suplioa a

de sodon aideo todo zo dlo en le

quagae dee surde, puedo pasar s verlo.

lo dioou:

asilosó a ROCELIO que seaba de leer án srt

nica "y que chinga les arduasta,

abingaste a TIDIL, ohingaste &

chiggaste al

lejaste litera con dabers*

dos buenos: nada más.

decente; qué no astora gon los densa!"• Rochado preguasa

que dijeron.

•alce que no dijeroa anda, poro no ha

que panar eutas cosas por alto "y ademas son sia matos"

PoGBiTO cambia el Biro a Indica que el deneral no foé a la

laugura.

J dice que no, que la claumaro el señor

R'O8LIO proguata que al entonoes

e sujeta a loa datos que ya tenia.

rosponde que al,

que solo agregue que lue clausurada a las 20100 ha. por e

Spertario General en representación del Proaidento.

11:51

12832

13:55

1 Mar 6.2

pregunto

anGello a pero se de la ambulada Cabana,

81 puede pagar hoy a la ¿mbajada a ii ticar con el, pues

t1e-

se algunas coses interesantes que in'ormarle. 35110 lo es-

pera en el

curao del dia.

81 portero

ladicó que alli eatá un sofor

• ROGELIO RODRIGUEZ. Bate Indioa que lo dejen pasar.

buscando

I1 portero

Indioó que están unos sellores de la Retista

"Baprosión" de Sinaloa que quiores var a ROGELIO RODRIGOBZ.

Bate indioó que no los puode recibir hoy, que vuelvan esto

dia.

10 MNreL1962

11:32

--

ROGELIO RODRIGORZ Comunico al

•s Braal' 11 al destaro a lar 3:00 hee vert

a la Eubajada Cubana

para

que los vayan a esperar.

queda enterado.

---

## Page 51

-10:49

11:50

RESUMEA

martes 6 marso 1962

2

proguato al ya ro61b18 los Dolotines.

Jaloe que so

j que desea

pesar o In Rabajade: BOGRIIO, despado de sodio

tar, mattioeta que sojor lo to en el lugar de steapre a la

miona hora.

le esperarã.

con idento dentromericano, de comunios con 100.N0

RODRIGURz, de la Babujada de Cuba, Boto incodiatasento le

desde la portonia do la Babajada Cabana, Andiel a RO0l.

SOrA Y Lo quieren vor porque Sraen te reesde d

RoButo indico quo loa paso lasediatosonto

portero de la Estajada Cubana, LadICÓ A HOGBLIO RODRI-

GUEL que alli estan unna peroonas que vienes a beasar sa

sadlea que los dole pesar.

P= 1365

Kingelio REDRIGUEZ

---

## Page 52

12:17

MAIZ CORUnICO a ROGELiO RODRIQUE? gue alls está el sebor sie

VA que Quiero Babar son 6l.

ROGELiO indios que lo pase.

manifestó al

que natura sa

lo para Centroasérioa, Honduras, Iloaragua y Sustenta, y do-

RESUMEN

martes 6 Barzo 1952

para ver al tione algo.

14856

BOGELIO RODRIQUEZ Indioó a

que por la tardo cons a la

10:30 dreo a buscarlo unas personaa.

"SÓ ya sabea*

ra a antor porque tiene que ir al hotel a roooger á la setiers

¡quede enterado.

---

## Page 53

EITAJADA CUBANA = 14-42-37

5-Marro 62.

751.-

82÷--

Entrada a 1ns 1834ha

•con

lo pregunt

Ea: pOs-R088110M

a que salló para ol aeropuerto, que al gusta

dejar recado que ella solo pasará.

3 que le diga que desd•

en la mañana 1o ostá buscando Hilarto y que es una cosa urgento

para hoy y que el quietera hablarlo por ditima voz a donde él

ya sabe, que porque es unn cuestión que no puodon dejar para otro

día 0 7750

Entrada & las 1834h6.-

con Rogelio le dios que tu

vo que hacer uso de esta cosa por una urgenclas que el enfermo

que vieron anoche que luego v1ó el al doctor y que lo dijo que

"'Domo la cosa

os urgonto y que no va a poder ostar después que a1

ora posible que hoy niano a las ocho de la noche. - Rogello: que

va a sor laprescindible que sea una hora después a las nuevo por

que el enferno so agravó hoy por. la tardo.

que at vió

un recado que dejó - Rogellos quest

donde. Rogollos que al, que va a ser una hora después.

que entonces va a buscar al anigo, que porque croyeron que ero

mejor la cosa de corca y no de l0j08 - Rogollo: correcto.

que solucionan una sorte de cosas que ollos tienen pendientes.

Rogeltos de acuerdo.

- 847.000

R7365

---

## Page 54

.:ii-..

•idc.

tio!

i. ".

i, ir.ao

t. = *=

. 1

i:

etir,

:"..

---

## Page 55

8-7365

3/i/4.2

NEGATNES

P' Rogelis Procioe

rsa iae ; "sienai,

---

## Page 56

die in indo- di

": 18009".

en desof..

11.61..

initiidon.

Selecante.

Mercierändes.

8:20 3049222E0

---

## Page 57

476.

10:00

8:35

16 wal 62

Entrado + 1127

de

ape y pundon pasar a col

95.

HOGELIS RODRIGUEZ 350.80

300,60/55

BUBAZHT Sr.

Embajada

50, 5r.

224,638 Sr.

565.55%

Sr.

1 300,80 dólares.

toma note

y 1ã 190 85aÇt6 2) 4390-

aloraron lan alcutantes

ordones+

piladi Para si Cabajador 6358-

Sr.

300.601

352.991

27. Feh62

lo preguntó a maro, 9el

_o el. portero,

había entrerado lo que le dejo.

BOOOLIO.asintió j.a su vez

preguntó al

J que si ya había habledo con el compañera

n2(9899)81006414

- 140 que nó que no da resta yasto.

RESUMEN

miércoles 28 febrero 1962,1

K51

AJAg

desde

el Hotel Agnes. O1d10 al

èl portero de Ta Da-

que dos dos asuntos

•bajada Cubana, que diga al

quo tiene se

callo que se comunique con el desde luego

patará los

---

## Page 58

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

800-5-9-1

COUNTRY

ПАЛС

J0F88

2-І-д-%

ПРОВІМО

DA18 DIste

NO PACIS TUD

EISERENCES

00 - 1-1,210,616

29 Ted 69

BAVILAM.

Jes IS62 A eurisoa

PArtara y Tis 1968

nounce

PONS IS SERIEVAI

sourco Brarate Bractly to Cestril ecl Litta lauriera ectrica.

s pregaritica

Атіт о. лівога ?.

61330: 110 1-3: 0013

al arrival

Pea

anali:a to lie 08580

x.37239-3 0$ 421

Bi: 1. 29=11 Ri8 E:=:9

pa 200102112 dadd

ABBIESE:

SASSBA

____

---

## Page 59

0 A 5 A

LUMRUS APAPO, AIR MALL

Jalara i8 de Telsuro 196.

Iles de la Planiración

manos ester

Rogelio

mucha

algua me di tanto a m o ara peroa o de

mi. Auro

min tang in to a a t an a con da

escrobar, na

como ju esta

ricir casado

tienes un nuevo tratzgo, que se

llama. arna.

ase gui

this tres

про вмиві.

alardoncem

mit bate

12271

P 7365

---

## Page 60

cuperdo, tir

Progilio dia ta fartino geu ta

летсo.. 2121

---

## Page 61

26/2/62

NEGATIVES

Kales Pringie Legis

---

## Page 62

conda a lago

Ani de lin Piantiene

de Malort

Setto tino

Purgalio incale da sotrato asco

2022

3

P-7365

9790

---

## Page 63

he os 1020

• 37

cada cora sei

se via al cratas fire

282 sonrie

Estos de-2at.oos

• Na

era lima crontos de apiurio

de

a fono 198e. 05e

48-146322

Estrato ginece dos ca:serono

talla.

6. te -tras, inte 20702ne

1126tan1e

trocesar

cinato ne

Co dece saliero

Piron fluceit.

2MA:

---

## Page 64

licite

Lineeramos

die minstra Billurni

ecialista

19N2 SECULA

SEAN CYRIL

.:.÷

---

## Page 65

26/2162

NEGATIVES

Rozen Reizes Lions

---

## Page 66

Ser 21

10:44

10:72

15:59

2 Febluay

1962

FOCELTO 13EZdo La Eibajada Cubana, inforaó a

ave prensa Intira, sobre la legcda del Diputado brastledo

dio fra paco para La laband.

RESULEN

domingo ll febrero 1962

Javaneño y que atjo

SCI QUY 814

supo que este inbia licato. hoy a

La cludad do retico ca ce ruclo de

la sabajaja Cubana annifcato que el no

cebfa

que

rigos mericanos, pero infomo que crective

encuentra ca: uxico, solo que no en esos -onortos

a111 on. la imbojala.

dejo su domicilio, alto en

n 11l Bajos, cast eaquina con I. la Catolica, aunque

indicó que posterlor-ente volvera a llnner para ponerse en

contacto con

(Este tal vez sea alenoro do la Labajada

de Cuba que go encoatraba en

1962

TOGLIO RODRIGU? Ne lá isbatada de Cuba manifestó aTE

que es úrgente que hoy por la

mana pagera dainalda, cues tiene caterial que entrogorle.

estaria las 12:00 hs.:

(6474) 0645904

17 Fet62

p1d16 donnalearee oon el eubane ROdIIO.

lo ladies que

él dobe toner por alli mia farjesa.

POGKATO le preguata que

•a al asmito de lo micháahos.

¿loo que aí, gae él

es ol enearando de éso. 8001110 lo Intea que estonora está

todo arrogiado.

FOGBLIO Ce "Le fueras a bascarto alla, qué uso de los sera

centesta "antendos no no meve jo de la ensa

porque èno estoy esperando precisamente".

1!1:

8733

uo di la rendo

Mi 1110 1

50-11-3-3

---

## Page 67

Pra t P69(7817 soRia

•E 1270180S

La Paso Moldora 19 da jabror o 801

proto

Sest 99r0t5005, perto 6024

Da l'antes 1 00080 e dara

947365

---

## Page 68

19/2/62.

NEGATIVES

---

## Page 69

DISPATCH

Cales a Laar

SEC&ET

..i...

iTO

INTO

FROM

3. WHET

HMMA -18537

SU-330-3

^ Folstary 1062

MELTIN CAN BE ROGEO

REFERIME

i. LIENVOY (E) roporeNai

bad been trying to reach Rogeo* RUtToCk. LopEz, cubar

mlid secrelary, on 20 January.

since he war busble to reuch

RODRIGUEr, bolet a medengo to me aluce cans be ma ledving

Mexico cly und on bla return he would gire to addrass to which

ihe; should send the Iatorialion Suitin of the Culan Embasay.

He cald the premure la a "Ili droug here, siuce yedterday

(19 jaauary) they were pleilag up all car late the emiant - newa-

papers and dil that" and lur that reason be did not go in. Hu sald

that isi was cutlig varural coiles oiii:. A cá sta iadoration Bal-

•Lot la

but that be alin mainer Ni, s ritalita contalaer

trifor marlan about scholarsalpa.

2.

Station would approcle: an; line mectur

may

have vin

Willard C. CURTIS

1 Februsry 1962

Distribulo:

2 -

2 - AHID

2 - Flies

1 - Chrono

1-10-9-3-3

1.7365

1... r

---

## Page 70

Dorate

Weeeding

de Preana Intina, manifestó nE 2 T10

i te 12

ue hoy por la tarde

a a la nopala com charlor con él.

16:30

17 Pon.

1967.

manifestó a

la Cabojado de Cubo, que

tiene uni carta

que dento

la carta,

3L10.

Este le pida que se la pase d

dejar

16:56

20 faw. 1962

ha estado tratado con insistencia

Forerso en contacto con el cubano. ROGELInRODRIGUEZ LOPEZ, J

al no enconurarlo de deja recaso en el sentido de que le va

a escribir para que ic manden el boletin de incormación de

Suba, pues ed

va a salir fuera de la ciudad, pero cuando re

mese le dara la dirección sorn quo se lo manden, porque es

in la prestón un poco fuerte aqui, pues ayer estaban recogien

do todo lo

B d a man nos y todo cho

sor éso él no ontró.

Agreça que lleva a Conhuila varios

boletinos del numero 4 de iniornacion sobre cuba, poro que

canbien nuiere e nunero o donde vieno intormacion sobre Laa

bocas.

Duel toma el recado y ne lo pagará a ROGELIO.

10:04

7365

20 Jar 1962

1200

Jpidto

que a cono dé lugar despierte a

pues el

ordeno que

Todos estenos aquí y falta ROGiIO".

cumplirá con el

encarga

11:55

26 yan. 1782

en ayer des

Tanaulipas, TAmpICo. y que Ani Se

Io hizo

2ber al Clc

diciendo que ya traia el dinero

para comprarlo los dos terres de ido y vucitar salado y domin

so próximos respectivaente, Informó alRoga I roDRIcure cue

tienen organizada allá una exposición fatogrnrica con las fotos

aquellas que le regalaron en el jalacio iresidencin de s

liabana y desea que noviLlo le proporcione boletines "y otras ee

sas" para repartirlas alla (Taupico).

nOGELIO le indica su

conforaidad y le pido pase a la imbajada a recogerlas.

---

## Page 71

SECRET

122 ixcerber 1961

NE ORANDUM FOR THE FIT,

FROM:

SUBJ: • Rogelio RODRI3UEZ Lopes (P-7365)

Subject was under LILBPACE Su'veillance on 20, 21, and

have been routed to COS by l

23 Notsber 1962 (see Surve 28108 Reports in F-7365 which sho Id

_with no conclusive results re

student cortacts.

2. *

The surveillance was cancelled (see reports) because of

the continu d presence of lexican Secret Service agents aud vehicles

in.thcare of the cuban mbassy - a problen which has plagued our

surveillance attenpts for months.

consequently, the team has not

been able to nount a prolonged surveillance at

tine Cuban imbassy.

3• Aftor 1 Juanuary 1962 the team

can make another

on subject if so desired by the

Chief of Station®

Distribution:

Orig - P-7365

I CC • LITE SOR P

CC

- Cuban imbassy Activities

CC

1

CC

SECRET

17365

---

## Page 72

SECRET

1.

MEMORANDUM FOR THE FILE:

FROM:

SUBJECT: Rogelio RODRIGUEZ Lopez P

Get on

А) всто

very concerned about a Cuban "from the Cuban Embassy" who

I asked SHYROCk who said this was probably Rogelio

RODRIGUEZ Lopez. The attached concerns ROGELIO RODRIGUEZ

Lopez.

3. SHYROCK told me that as of 16 October 1961 Tex would put

Rogelio RODRIGUEZ Lopez under surveillance; but, as of 22 December

1961, I have received nothing.

Distribution:

Orig w/att - Rogelio RODRIGUEZ Lopez P-

1 - LITENSOR P

1 - Cuban Embassy Activities

SECRET

---

## Page 73

vien le conden den ia britis

13:15

de la Sabajada Cubana, Indioó que para hablar de eso es profe

•riblo que se llegue a les ofioinas de la Embajada. Al lo hará.

11 Octe1

LLENVIY

---

## Page 74

FBI doE.

19 Dec 6i (usach)

Re: Foreiga Political Matters

no Büfile given

---

## Page 75

14-00000

TARAAAGAACA RARCHI

waileral Gile milk

с.intrtent.

191: 141

сі оті:

Papi, 1.

cigares.

Manilany

UNCLASSIFI SD

i!.?.

teamini or aret:"

-late caderied person l gazinin

Mi; in:

13

Caban Diplenat (?) Disarned

"narari 17 Decenber 1963

One

4.365

9 Decender 1961

TUCEA

9 Dec

jocal Press

R-SERiES NiC.

Tatal Ar

Gatin :

R-308-61

Gs

A young third secrotaryr

Cuban ambassy vas disarued by an acsort

Iront

of kexican law-enforcement) personnels

fracas occurred & Decerber

1901 at the intornational jirport.

DISTRIBU D

? ORIGil

TOR:

TOO, USARCAREN, Ith ary

Fogolia MODRIGUEa, a

nird cocretary of the Cubar

sorced at Mexico's Intcraarionol dirpocù on & Dec 1901.

The fraste apparenly siarted over the documentalion of : diplonatic

"tHi

1€013:2

rushes

0T.2

by the enigration agent vio

48.3

Suballs de togation's flight 465

encound

for lavan?.

pio-

ROUErGUES

igiri the courier and barch boris orarod.

Lefore it was 2l1

sir of totato er knigrathon, spocial agenco of Tutorior, and the prdcini

in thu nolos is mas diccorcred tini both Chibana

Che Judicial Police confiscated the vesponse

Toother oneod cith ROUNIGUE? thradening lo recuch ached ino followice

"nooty and coctering:

"10:11 sec ti you take ij ristol thon."

2821

Pho folloming tuesday (12 des) has cone and gone sint to sinilai

cartlet. GASTRO'& darzont

pronovacoach:

tin true

color cirloord aray

th: ejes of

ör Tro Delico buchaddy ongoged the cereurte..

UECIAONRYTED

P- 7365

---

## Page 76

I7

10:03

3

15:17

20:15

in tenidad 1261

maulio r

0i: 10 04i

*..:

airo

10

20 D08 il comento

preguntn que ci quic-

Morr, 202 Que 1726 cl

ticaro

j curas doono tut traber "cdcacá

= tor se us rocible que se vaya

1a20

5.0.

conifosis

aua coaca de llegarle el

dl Cenudal

Mal/cardo,

congre

cano do cocimo dicho 20=01.

pregunta

is

110004

Co que cuál Conural la de

corifique lo roticia

el que.

:C.

entere

m diccio que ol Conezal habia

TIT"

dio que era falco, pero

paro inforazzon los compa-

22007a9

6.3a5*°.

Postoris

echondió cuc cojor lo coacultorá

ate Ileanca a

331

DICTIO

io

.20

todos

T..

1101

Cens

∞0..

Jon bey de lo no

es que lo habreroa los co

icoopaténdolo qué babía de 1u1

sudado, di el

13 dico me intentos de éstos

oc vinitos y exitaco cirolu

22os Sio nue noule 100 solve

dicho aris

en puc lo parecia spacado, po-

Mi que concultane dudo con ol

C*

is

co.

de incica

"cumio lo clyan

100 due jaMbio Consigo y

ij a los que coun inrentordo

que yo en lo reasoned pueda

ten

1.239

Pien

: c=

11O "

insiste

ese que se cuide teg

c: 0l00;

05t0:020S 63

is troncog

coa 610110704

73

: 00220:57031

tait

Ainiod al Geace:l

2 B220903709 3S:

jadderrá a

Indiado

den

cir.

Lice car contes aciern

...i.

3I0 1997

2 327-11

ciclá nos 11c-

.C3

cono cris

42 2090.

Sa-

$-7365

---

## Page 77

23 repember 1961

RESFORANDUA FOR tHE PiLE

FRON..

1. On, 22 Decamber 1961, ITAMII-2 told no that _

had. bean told by

that bs had saconeded in gutting Subject

art-of the

that

JITAit? aleo reported infomation tron

mas arranging a soret mooting with

Jata to he

| doscotion.

sho was recently Involved la

macenalty of disoussing the current

no le a veteran

Station comments There 19 also the fosalbility that

my wish to try to uno

to obtain oil for

rocently been exhmistlid ail sourves in an effort to obtain 01l.

pagina

Ddet

1

JAZIP/TII

I - Cuben Embasay Activities

8-7365

---

## Page 78

41B4

1=0 10178.08

-=.

MEXICAN BRIEFS...

-

Berl lno Cuban

laical soutfle

lu ciro up their guas.

Mosso and Cuban embarry

• Brandiang puhtiel

maltag thaar 1o Mag 10s16

The suddint

ite

Marangland passe..ger.

"*

intanto.

148148

d'idrid tu cardo

intre

CP-7365

57-9-12

---

## Page 79

15:10

1..

2BS0XE9

viernes 8 cieldaora 1951

6

cuarco see; den algunas sugerencias

y reformas subatanciales

que os necesario Introduoir.

está de souorio en éllo

y se cosunicara la semana ertranta sonl

— para Ascor

Le su ibidoizang lo que resciró el conité Iscional.

Inforso al 11o.

que hoy

desde la dies borda nabo un paro de los maestros de la See

olon 35, en saltillo, por falta de pago de sueldos. Rue di

17:20

17:43

18:25

quiénes pretendieron entrar arnados. Los

aseados do Miración al notar esto, los desarmarea ao $1a

antes tener un forcejes con illos.

8.8461

pregunto a su cuñada l

rootó a su couruge l

•' lo redento del leal

yo que so lo quiere nada ni es nanto de ou devo

responde que ja no trata esas cosas con[

porque siempre están en desacuerdo.

va este

dosde suchoa ángulos de vista y eroa que tiene mata.

laportancla desde el ángulo de la aala jugada que lo biolo

ron al Goberno Brasil, Ecuador, Uragasy y Argentlas de ro

Jarse a la hora de la votación en la 0lA.

Entoncea o1 00

Cierno necesitaba apoyo i

Joree que dea me la latan

ojón del Cesarel

1 aceptar e

cargo del Gobierse,

porque éso se lo

hablan ofrecido hece 3 años.

que 31. Y

que no se le hablan esde.

_ rootifica en el

no lo habir soaptado, y do la medas

a la mañana lo aceptó y patonces eL

le parses que m

en fanciós de la situación intercagdonal.

Tle di8

cho gusto, pues le parece que es una do las cosas que model ...

taba el Gobierno,

un puntalito, porque con el tenerad no 8t

Asimisao le parece que los damaa ni fu n1 fa.

a ese raspecto comenta que lue requisito que pielo el to

nera, que llamaran a todos.

que a los otroa leu dia.

ron cosas siabólicas y ea realida el que fué a ua postoión

de Importancia fué el General

secretaris del alo. Abultai dejo recado para 1

Sra.

in el sentido de que hoy a las 20:00 h

en el despaado del ing

será la rausión

dol Comité Isolonal.

conontó con

que ente ahora si tiene

ucho saterial,

preguntándolo a la

en Cua con da tiene de 0a

nosbrasientos.

_ reapande

¡dios que no hay más que an error do abi-

cación es of

Banato de la pesca, puos éso le quita raler a

---

## Page 80

14:39

16:11

19:C0

15:52

Pssi.?

Tionnes i dicientre 1961

105 29,009.

conteada cue 9,000, paro que turieron

de quien

inritabe.

Jereguais o 51

2ud ria a scarir.

dica que sí y que se sinai-

¿oron, tero supone cuo todaria babrá en Salvador.

dos modos day que ver eso, porque noraca que no se lieraron

todo lo que habion labiado.

Itiene todaris, i sólo

quería iniosaarle qué lugor y qué fecha.

El sábado se ven

4

pregiato al

ol cortaro de la E-De-

Ma Quoara, que si no na regresado

_todavia;

porque aqui la eston esperanco en Fundicich, 8, y ls señora

iba a ir prizaro a la Babajada Mortencerica-

esperando en esa dirección.

cocerta que si l

a la Fabajada Contenericano, a lo rejor alli ja 1a dogo-

Ilaron.

ricie la ocurrencia.

recomendo a su hijo el

que ahora-to veya a la casa lo eopere, porque quiora ha-

blec con

cl, poro cue prcouca rue la cosa no cea zur ostor-

cuos no cuiere cue ac ésto de dé cucnta su escara

Que el Inconiero irá dicinuledamento o su ravéca

en la uma foran, ruca le ure halferic.

ruso el siquiente coble E

Eabajcior

de Cube anto la Coo en lucra

JUUSA eSpCre COnparecOS TALAVERLy BODAS, Leiegados

CIeS Ilegarin Tucio 400 Aerenovos Lexico sois hores maiona

sábado"

rade salo aiiauiço,

decde cl Puerto creo dijo

Bonjada Cubano, que duniro de un

12:00 ano, y presunto ta si cili

aliton infernacion cue llever

monion e alerica

3 acuolla serio o que si

¡eropuceto i verlo.

otar coareicro da condão can fiete que tratará do ir con

rabalado.

"aute de l

212,

so inicro

poc rocken on los eficiros de

"airador

30g se les

po,creioro el novero de teloiono.

Entidas

: cecio 2122 an 2a

STES, SE's

Passo

Pp/5

---

## Page 81

SECRET

11lieud in:

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

ShEMET 05

delites!

¡CERTIFICATION

RI FILE NO.

97426

DATE

CVALUATION

89 500 61

AGALYST

•DATE PROCESSED

CROSS RETERRED TO THIS FILE

SOUNTE COYPTORYO

DISSEMIAATEO IA

COCUMENT DISPOSITION

FRAASFERDEO TO

FILE 40.

PERTINENT INFORMAT:ON

DAPE OF IOFO.

DATE

Contact of subject, salle do, subject vas in Kenteo.

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

£73651

BAY% 867 110*

.937

SECRET

18* 448

---

## Page 82

11:55

12:20

12:43

13:04

reoles 26 ronera, 7551

2

736.

MIC*ADRIGUEZ que si do habido

miche de mario de un schor fon

Jro sado si es cierto o Te

Ponen fonder

porque parece que je le ardan pl

sinio los iclores,

Eso do del tarialento de Laberacion, y en

banoes quicro cater si ella ca la sebajada tienen ircomación

re los personao que llegan, a rer si este señor

está srui o sino raticr.

POsaLIo le sugiere que nejor

1lane =1 Consuleão de Cuba, aunque desde luego "no sabenos

ruión soa ese seo:?

_acjor ya a hablar con el señor

de la Cubana co

¿ricción, además de que vala ponerse más abu

Стуб"р"

Fontresto al Ing.

que lo ha

estado llancaão en virtud de que recholo un telegre de los

connateros. ce foso ics, cuienes tienen interes en saber en

dafinitiva quicaes gan j duendo estarán dilá, además de que en

el telegrana indican con quien ponerse en contacto allá.

agroga que preciscaonie esta aqui ahora

01 va a presisar los nosbres para asi telegrafiarles a aquellos

sontes, pues

jarece cre son los cisnos cinco elecertos inicial

Troonesios.

dice que parece que se incorpora.

_a su ves monifiesto que [

indica la

posteriths do que trabion vayan dos o tres petrole-

sece. 55,j uso serin zuy util.

no puede

precisar quieres sor, no obstanto que al sabado estuvieron tra

tando ese nsunto con los petroleros.

_dice queel neto

será el sáuado. s las 23:00 hs.

le recalca que la c071-

sión estará interido por el Lic.

el propio

y les 200 o tros

cotraleros

El

K-

risa terril, dijo al Son

corado que lo aceptaron cono colabarador de la re-

Vista Folitior. [

briente agregando que fueron suy genti

Canuinao

tera

indico que le sandará un cica -

plor do lo zoricia Toy en lo que le hicieron una entrevista

para contestor?

...

Próxim

es la cali, envió el sicuiente tolers

117-1 en Saltilla Conmuido:

manio colids delegacion dic 29 por Sabena.

conocer contregy subero colegados pora recerración

orados achen estar noui nas tardar

Saludos'

La Labora, Giba:

sica

antian crión especial agradeciéndo

÷ 7315

---

## Page 83

11:2.

11:35

стукір

21:45

11:46

12:15

12:40

12:40

7?:51

2:53121

viamas d7 corienbre 1901

10 bo culitado ecuentor el tiraje.

sabás extralado de ver el noabro del

Luln du estas bentes que sicopro se hon distinguido por

2o elgirtícuio qual

lo que o po o tinto co nota cons

Jo pido, i patición io

Un Ardiviquo ¿coconocido pidió a la revista Política que mor.-

un fotórrafo y un re ortoro al la calle de lorto 46k, car-

co de no villa de cuscalupe, donde estan sionde golpeados

unos forrocarrilcros, por crancaerose que travaron de apode

rarse. de unos furgones para vivir.

20t2 y verá

/4915)

сардела?

tal cono se lo habia indicado el

Dio so regorió con éste para infor arle que esta aia con eli

Tia conisión de campesinos que quieron nie los reciba. E

unica de lo tenta senera catrante y laiontá no soder

suludur mas angliarente a

citó urgentesante al

en

su

• oficina

5367, cop 2p"

le conticto de

con el Sr. lo

de los ingoles Califomia, ca el asunto

¿o cierta cantidod do arcos que va a compracue para la imbaja

de ce busa.

escrunto

1 que nen resuelto sobro el pur-

nocosita tener la cuestra.

de 1a Enbalda nusa, de acuerdo con la invilación

Tus 10 h1z0

en la cuca de cort,

pord pusar este lin do scaana

! Cuernavaca, quedó do pusar por élla

el próxino domingo a los 09:00 hs.

D3 porte del Carlo

transfirieron uno cg

pora el miercoles proceson entro aquel y el sr.!

17365

C1 Curano

balon

municó que en la Valija diclona

tio2 do

que son seis bultos, y va con

siado al tipictorio do

los recibira

en ol ioropuorio el or.

Dicr.

3. Su

tas

Coacr05 1

Isontrevicta"

segurasente se trata da lin.

este 22005s

12ii

prista Ce

. vece

arrentino controto del

irbaji

---

## Page 84

SOURCE :

DATE: "londay, 23 Potober, 1961

FILE:

SUBJSCT: Surveillance of

Regelin

* 0900- On duty at subject's homes

~ 1027- He cate out of hore and walked to Cuban embassy, going in through consulate door.

on Marquez and Zamora,

11252- Car 446 came out of embassy; SUBJECT and three men in 1t.

• 1256- They arrived at Hotel Agnes on Saltillo street and one of the men went inside.

/ 1302- Trunk of car was seen to be open....

1309- Man came out of hotel and they drove off.,

11326- They arrived at International section of airport and took out several bags from

trunk of cars they then went into Mexicana de Aviacion ticket counter.

1105- SUBJECT said hello to red faced man. who used to live at hotel on Azuota street,

he helped put this man's bags in car 446; man apparently had Just arrived...

1409- SUBJSCT and other Cubans went into restaurant; they also had taken bags to ear...

N1417- They caie out of restaurant and CUBJECT said hello to two Russians who had arrived

at sirport in car no. 86.

1419- SUBJECT sald hello to thuse students... They were apparently Cubans also.

* 1420- SUBUSCT said goodbye, then went into waiting

room' no. 4.

1515- SUBJECT came out of waiting room accompanied by one of the Russians, this man was

seen at airport with other sen and veran, apparently all Russiana.

1517- SURJECT and Russian drove off in car S6, two men and a woman who had been sean with

Pussian also left in 1961 Ford, plates 141.

" 1535- SUBJECT and Pussian arrived at subjact's home; SUBJECT got off car and went into

some, but care out tunediately and walked off. Car 36 drove off... (Russian in It

has been seen often in this car- lone, blond hair; long nose; hom-rimed glasses).

" 1543-SECT went into small store, "La Vallelenge", Marques and ianora. 1- 7 365

- 1545- He

cane

out al store, and went into Cuban embassy through main gate; 1t was noticed

---

## Page 85

at this tine that there were tho patrol cars in front of embassy, and two other

cops on foot in armed. a de patrol car left soon after this, and the two cops were

also rellered by three new ongs...

1615- 2IS dutys police car was araln parked at corner of Marquez and Tacubava, making

dispatching, difficult, while thie cops on foot roaned area around Marques streets

a dark blue 1955 jorge, (secret service), plates no. 10-75 was seen cruising by,

once

on Zanora and the ither time on Tacubayas both times going by Cuhan embassy;

. live men in it, very much the "agente" type...

(No police car was seen at Pissian embassy today)

---

## Page 86

CATE: Saturday, 21 October, 1961

FiLa

SUBJECT: Surveillance of

Sogolts KikICtue 1.poa

0970- On duty at subject's home, Pachuca 155.

1028- SUBJECT came out of home and bought newspaper at corner of Pachuca and Marquez.

1033- He went into Cuban embassy•

1045- SUBJECT cane out of embassy accompanded by a young man with very clean-cut features. v

1049- They took cab at Marquez and Tacubaya.

1057- They got off at-corner of Reforma and D. Guerra. r

1058- They went into offices of Cubana de Aviacion. Reforma 56. ~

1103- They came out.

1110- They took "peso" cab going down town at corner of Morelos and Reforma and were lost

when team carg were not in position to follow..•

Checkid all known addresses with negative results.

1215- On duty at Cuban embassy and at subject's homes

1445- OFf duty; SUBJECT was not seen again and now there were two police cars in front

of Cuban embassy, making dispatching there extremely difficult.

NOTE: Team leader has noticed police cars on duty at all times at the Cuban, Russian,

weeks.

P7365

---

## Page 87

SOURCE:

DATE: Friday, 20 October, 1961

FILE:

SUBJECT: Survelllance of

100-2

0900 On Juty at Pachuce 153 and at Cuban embassy, o

- 0958- SUBJECT came out of no. Mi

1000- He went Into store, "In Jalicienco", Lamora and Marques.

1004- He cane out with another pan.

1005- Other man opened door to consulate office and they both went inside.

1035- SUBJECT and man sho lives at Tacubaya 74 came out of embassy.

1035- They took cab at Marquez and Tacubaya, and picked up another man at doorway to embassy,

1357- They arrived at international section of airport and went inside, but were lost...

1503- SUBJECT cane out of airport with m two men plus another who apparently arrived

In a night. These three drove off In a cab and SUBECT went back inside.

1505- He not nan from no. 74 and another and they all went into restaurant.

1528- They came out and went to American Afrlines counter, then walked off.

1618- After just walking around, SUBJECT and othet two came out and drove off in car 385

that was waiting outside.

1640. They arrived at Cuban embassy and went inside.

1749- SUBJECT care out driving car 146 with another man in front seat.

1750. They arrived at gas station, Marquez and Mazatlan i

1754- They drove off.

1817- They arrived at Internatlonal section of airport again and went inside.

1919- They went into restaurant.

1342- They came out.

1943- They spoke to employee at Real Aerovias Brazil counter.

1844- They went into international platforn no. 2. 1

18S0- They came out accompanied by a man and woman; they went to Aerovias Brazil counter

again, then walked out.

1355-SÜBJECT and other man drove off in car 416; couple drove off in a green Volkswagen

---

## Page 88

14-00000

with plates no. 10-13-53,

1928- SUBLECT and other man arrived at Cuban enhassy and drove inside.

2050- SUBJSCT case out of embassy with nan fror Tacubaya-74; they Imediately took cab in

front of embassy and were lost. Tean nenbers dispatching did not advise in time.

2100- Off duty. Checked known gun shop with negative results...

NOTE: SUBJECT was lost at 2050 hrs, due to bad dispatching conditions around Cuban

embassy, teanhas been forced to dispaten on foot away fren cars.

Car are left

out of sight of embassy, as there is usually at least one police car at corner of

Marques and Tacubaya; there was one at this time... Also, there is usually a cop

on foot roaning around area of Marquez corner with Lamorae.•

---

## Page 89

7id61

101.

Batrada, - HP PrOPINTA DOS ROGELIO RODAJOUKI.

que hablo al lunes 104.=

Satrada - He de pared ipio computard corrocaitu-

rod, presunsa por RODILIO.

AI QUE HEDIO SI INA

'13:15

il at 61

an anuariduo die del ser el secretario corral colla

NO JO

Seudo pidio periculos, propararas y

"tir satro los eluros

de. 1u

rejuicior.

X D-10H32

de la inbajace cubarup

17a1co que poi:

rible que se llogua a las oficinas de la sela sino hera.

7365

178t.61..

la a las 095818.

que sulan

ilo berto

• 10081

¿ que line tardo diama.

Frfas.-

oy11

del silo.

67.=

preunta por

: que asf

fus

gU1J01

no

20. Git 61

01U.

de Prensa La

tina, que

Liene la

las 6 do la tarde; que 109 -

de Arquitectura tuvieron dificulta-

dos en ia Habana con conjueto a la visa y hoy llegaron

108-

arquitectos, los profesores que van al otro Congreso.

pregunta el teléiono de la Real derorías Brag11 y

ROGELIO

dico que es el 35-81-00.- 035.-

Salida al 35-01-00.- MOGLIO pregunta is que oras llo-

Ra el vuelo

procquento do brasil.

HE: 19.30 h.-043.-

---

## Page 90

14-00000

1i torr 194.l

Menoraadur for the Reoord

Subjects Pra-Cuban Curenony at Barrela "jarublica do Duba" - Sura i259

On 11 Oot 61, LIPillS roported that the

cere. ory plarod at the Escuela "Rapu!lIca de Cuba" in Donory of the "Tito do

Tara" was hold on this daio at 1120.

Tre follouing parpio of note vera presents

3696)

Directora =

El. tra ROCHA

Nebir of the MRie

"Ro (111a"

Mariobo. MalGo - Hep from the sica

"er sa fRuzA tress ittache Cubar rebassy

and Ünitural

dast, Fress/illache

cuban

i begay.

< 7345

staine of a pollieal inture wa discused

fle. il AbRiGue cot with ufficlala

cahind and till. d for wo

11m0.

T*

not thou! what dis dincorod.

last kirro

• e::t

A Cavan, "in bariudo" culina miio

Mas 1ip0as of the fi rejudit 1s

3135

Put Jabi Standi

56-11-3-3

CP-7365

---

## Page 91

l'enorandur fa. the Secord

Subjocts

Regulio RODRIGUFE Lopez

On 11 Oct 61, I Esve

dais ro

Subject for survalliance op to be nounted an 16 oot 61,

torosted Guber dip who 1n contact Nextou studests. I balieve burra

Subject may be sar

Inter: sted In.

CKS

FILE:

---

## Page 92

19:12

de la-a

15 223

1*003-

flore:

écto

Parano.

rocerions

en Custo

Mene Reino de des nos e

olers pere dalla care no al).

alli a 12.

087.

LIENYAY

29: Sipt 61

Salida 10,00 h.-

con la señorita

encuentra may apenada con

41, antior lo esturo esperando,

"yor ponesto llamarlo, poro asturo muy, ocupala porque tenie

que atonder a unas chioas de la Unlteralded IDororio

y so lo fué ol tlempo en su laboratorio porqua contin que

hacer una serte de preparaotones y cosas.

lo padó antior, progunta al la puodo vor..

1nd1o0

quo o1, porò ahorita va a salir para ol masoo.

queda de irla a vor alla

entro doco y una.

10 0.

pora.- 106.=

292.

8 oct 61

• Salida 25.49 h. a: 10-21-71.-

MODELIO NODRIGUEZ pidaT

que de ser ppalbio

lo mando el traje negro.

indloa que todavia no 00tá.- 315.

362.

341,1da 16.46 h.

a1 46-60-15-- NUUELdO presupta por

_ Informa quo no catá.

ROCE

MIO indica que aqui

•stá ol Pronidonto de 19reu y que-lan

vor .1

1oa podía llovar a la Untvortadad para que-

la vioran.

• que se fué con

J, que

dado

de que lloguon lao dirá sa domuniquoa-

con ROUILIO,- Lato acopta, agrogando que el lunes

vAr.

está do acuordo. - 389.-

1-7365

50-9-3-3

intent""

---

## Page 93

iclaririn

icr.leno

juciiis

di t..

i: bor.

adla

Sri lógchie ficinaue, f7)

ide oi, mitanoe

do lchaaded "'"

o ia ilurrnio

n'as.

jogaeie diaéngpido cielais

Ieamo want

canlo diara doto caetà ti

dean.

maido eu uiaénini qunn éontei

actnaras

e fina.

iinen

tomilse

.a aeobo

'.gorn

i citena

ieteaim

want

Renleaios sint

,Ano21.md

deatesman

enianis asnai

'ues,inani"

.ada asintiacei

sno neo

bodres

fe:

iien

ecta huat

inare;

sauade le jrah

wanie

inounad tomd".

ic'ana

'as anaeo phoe

Gimicada ci ame.

inroes

rp. uth

coua ir emcatiena die dan, aa.

"b..ti.e à

-°. a duma

ra a his.

siie

I qun.n

inact

ww.n.cou

'asmoi

.in wwe

int me

=.1

---

## Page 94

14-00000

ando ame

cambos das

dens vie a

an branca de uma da fofamaciais da la

ta to mic

1....

'' temente

in

a ambies de ja cate

me sala

Irand wind

intes die

sande ide

as s00 ?

Saga de

condenanhe 2

tropas

anad

Fiandon

ão mada as

canto

o revia de da ca do!

Vidale

santa

Siria,

Sa tiraion de Votelo no da tonia.

de mando besse de no cras

iand

d-de

---

## Page 95

p-7365

NEGATIVES

Priples Roseisuer. Lrply

---

## Page 96

eioii dorie.

wie y il ipd sgoreiie?

w.wifae.d.nedatmaic.irt

sdyiy eitiy s;

CaD0N38

smiaiGripoodason.t/poootwioe.igpgs.ote

i's :-romtama

Uirea, iDenos oil (90

atnlacuenadci@@ee.n.de

tioo es lra ónhicacin

tcéana i de

i'itrthe i ?.

el Pspelo iscluimes rotes

"'a suecrobo det to ilios iteis

iphaae

al nsatir estas .ii tros,

hi cuashes trin de salual

('sqelio reciéi tu carta de

fichr is' de sled lennte donole

22-202

nuia datio dii me -purcoles insoroado

sinnohustra troro és roiciéla a

---

## Page 97

14-0000c

en de da no temina

sidereo lo que tasamos dia celo

'adriato escribiza al cofre ela

no escaliste

reina

'atria iritinecte

"'inceremos

ide necestra i Petolución

ince tein mata en le

---

## Page 98

P-7365

NEGATIUES

19/11/63

---

## Page 99

VIS - APRE

seColoninCondes. reno, l':

=.12

Mai redo tramen

¿ da d'illianlos 19..

2622

mi delo

itale

beata che -te cacolia notacion

3022222

me diso ome-leones de iorael

sumerches

inere sue listione dassia io riatter

mara di cadendar

2770

---

## Page 100

ara cite de cane pa

me-ra fides esto lenguas

la intriota soi son dora momento.

im besos y era se abrazo dela

preer ter

Patria B3, Muerti

Vencereners

Fire nuestra Relo ecion

0T70u

---

## Page 101

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 102

P-7365

NEGATVET

10/2/61

---

## Page 103

Ritte fa

deciste:

---

## Page 104

1d-0d0

Areanal, x

miragojcoti.foa.co.zs

kseeréeen

iileaish sritfionnlic:

iaralei

por y'ene.

Bac hatic ghữo i hhe cu

22247-24

fretan di efuan. la

la pisiadla

Ichus o Iormesta

1232.+2298-00t

---

## Page 105

14-00000

....

Regelie deirigein

Freresses 96t.1-503, #160

0l0 2052

fre émigradio, de rece bangei

SIA. AEREA

VIA AIR. MAIL

777544 1-1365

---

## Page 106

11-00008

N4, 32a

4

---

## Page 107

NEGATIVES

Regain Printing Lies.

---

## Page 108

VIA . APRFA

. Angele Berligen

582830

Talena :19 de XlelLenbre de 1961

i ende das te le recente

dessus de derte m these bistes

sere as thi bee coor

estous 'reframoo ia

austre la 2a dan

358220

17

---

## Page 109

1d-0n0d

il disfide de ti ata parostra

miserite il lies

cariaia el Metrale a

desisti de litrizante

la duccino imita per que "'

tour.

sta es la ressao

f. elimi e

anso nois to 17.356

slan, tuon Puesto iPico

¿levitie menatio 53.

tra tramag...

cistasi

---

## Page 110

-00000

8-7365

9/31:161.-

Nelrtrives

f Rogler Perting ligig

---

## Page 111

17a:r8s

8-7365

---

## Page 112

-0000

:...

dca twi.

"is l. i.

•1.

i oenla.

innnol'e...

4. • so....

...laine las.p, lo....

.ta.

. ioo.do-196

aeem.-d

pro a

c..e wuten:

•a na d 4=»

atat.

Paido ie idladooso porr.a

•ro.o smo moy:

Lidoo..dre.

..do oo Lounr diilonn Croamne .o.'

.......;..

olien

..ddi.....

ii io

. .

halui ila

il p couti

• Tiiioe o i peod l1as

1 8-00 006.0084

costa do laa calia,

éncnotoiiiei,

si, idoo o f.a'

sopaop.

Д. 42

.a..

, d' es poia jais

E. . der la, pime ea mid e..

éseginéno do ta

I'ee.ndt.a.

¿jetir daio otonerile l

•.o.a an faura

' posaral o e_ o Ao t ãn"

,temloel duor.ma

• rili dltéanameo à ia lasddo coaria

a.ne aoadodnd goi dneo iihssalgnipoeoden

i.siacs

dmeaoeoã ti..d".

ie. éa ten lig eitai.

Faintin,

..ne os torz és, ihao, al.

d202666

iep. liaben duu nro nun le, apundornaddn dien

dindinon an gooi she of allon

---

## Page 113

14-00000

side.

..:.

iett

$.11

sant'is

8.021

д..

0-3081

settore gire

a Cano spero norders do

-l'a

61.

...os.?

fluire

a., ano pistone

/a..

00....o dan poros,

---

## Page 114

NEGATIVES

9/22161..

---

## Page 115

P-7365

---

## Page 116

ridin, ..

indiana preado dio diede de pidond e lodd dedei ilae..

connadie.

r. . .......

ate dando

a......deed...

ossati di le ara,

8x 08

-=004

percola doss done addo atten

espando

dennes

-ma dons

.......-

.... "

id, d0088.

Post.

irato:

seig hanno Alesife

caloro diaucenos...à

ge....

fani...

in estrale

Distria onquarte

бе сника

---

## Page 117

NEGATIVES

9/22/54

---

## Page 118

11 de Septo de 1961

INFOA.E #48

ANTECEDENTES:

INFORIE:

PLUTURA ROU.À EN MUATLIN $126

En las calles de Lazatlan #126 es el doicilio del Sr.

Rogelio Rodriguez Iópez, que se encuentra en lugar de

Rodriguez Cué. G2.

A la una de la mañana del dia 11 de Sept se pinto el

escudo Ruso en la

casa #126 de las calles de Mazatlan

y se tiro pintura en la puerta de la misma.

1251)

8-1365

Roge Rating gaz

---

## Page 119

If de 61

•1'2

?l teado de

tege.

SE DEL BRO ANT: d:,

D.7365

clon todoral de Seguridad y preguntas pol

bido de uno de los ayadentet

der prietanta de la Appublica, de sulen so Babe que aa

casé con ina salvadoreta de nombre

on dos se raran para Cubas que los agentes clon au

l: Presidento quiero saber cono enta al asunto

norma que efectivaiente

su esposa

so fueran para Cuba on ol bareo Dabla de Stagina

Y trajeron a Versam una recomendaolón del abajador

quien dado saber todo.

Bate que

(1265)

5 Sejt 61.

de" audit.

in:

tir:

?.""

?10..0t

. """

11:00

Agon

En vos may

baja, ROGELIO BOCRICJSZ de la imbajada Cubana dijo

TELLRE habló con

y le dijo

que el era

3 del serviolo sobreto du yuta babajada; :

profeto que a ayenten a dacer ellos

a la Embajado, que 01

I comenzó & bueno, puea.

пов те

noa compañero.

11 Sept

15:30

1f Sep 61

o Sob2ae usando de cockee de

..?.

2.2

?.:..!

•09-

inenso ded

SE Lo.

17200.44

---

## Page 120

ISS2A

F: P-7365

LA STA

---

## Page 121

wdeedodaehcied.@@sihoobeoledeoe.e

BINAX

i..!

laexcomsand

---

## Page 122

NEGaTNies

4119/61100

Policien

---

## Page 123

122-4

---

## Page 124

..iea

sscenideeula!"

---

## Page 125

14-00000

NEGATINES

9/12/ier

---

## Page 126

7 л.

elial, a

=49.

tetàa

Muduango

i --

i s'mm

"is - watho, aat

arar-Bna

---

## Page 127

i bia. mo=4-49

de ;

hx--dd

id.arud in

a in.-

siea:

eei id erieiea dea o) leae

.riti?e

lcttsisas

aew.oiais "in.

m'st'ross

honnte

ieiia

ait in tnw.

"aa dororedou

a.isor.i

- toons.

i raeahidio dir baaraorad

---

## Page 128

P-7365

NEGATIVES

P Regio Raine Lege,

---

## Page 129

(*)

18 Aug tol

ver: there talking about fumen digäts Con-

at

Fold subj. they were interested In closer rolatic

1.0, mutuni collaboration. He talked quito some time

on the

Revel lu, and what 1s was doing. Ho toll: Suf thet

ho was veryinterestid lu his union and that it affilinte itself

as soon as possib? piti tic

In

"e To agrod him to write out (aictnte) s.

let ver

to

ro affiliation with

Subj

told

that he

would discuas tinls with

and biat the tio

of them wo ld come

up with sorething re

told Subj

that they would Illo the CDU (Christian Domocratic Union) to be th

11ck between

also

asked Subj 1f he know anytiling about e military buildun

Subj believes t.nt

thinks that there has neon a mil

Itary buildup there.

Subj toli

nin he non nothing aucut chis ti

which is the truth.

mino asced abont relatins l su en

went

Suld racont : that

on virent mission on 1

Thus, 61.

Subj s:1d t.1ot

rod at some lengtn

in his presence but to was not a 1a t

to urderstand what they we'e

taking about. He cited the fol'owin

Items: something will wanen

whichinill uring

asant en-

other situntion similn?

manti: si, and nano

on several occasions.

Also

PARE:

1-7365-

HOmAn TALi MaT!

---

## Page 130

1.13

---

## Page 131

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 132

P-7365

8/98/41.

NEGATIVES

---

## Page 133

DISPATCH

Calad o" seatton

Oter, MED

99-1131

50918

Angan 12

57.72

exas

idas cuer

Por sonr tronation

Comniet i

Talaro, unt

Ten de

Storion has no triese os

curris

12. August 2061

BESARIS. TI CH:

72 -W-ID

arrano

di 50-7022

8-1365

---

## Page 134

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 135

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 136

P-7365

0/18/61

NEGATÕES

i Regis Pring tor

---

## Page 137

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 138

P-7365

s'/2/Laá

NEGATTUES

' Rage thing Loy

---

## Page 139

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 140

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 141

P-7315

NEGATiVES

'p"

8/2/li/:

---

## Page 142

Can wron

idease tatte

din

---

## Page 143

ww.seuiflie

bwad

ian. Tad.-casanyes

---

## Page 144

P-1365

7/21/16

NEGATIVES

Rrylis Romercier Lep

---

## Page 145

aishel.edbnteh.eahe.ds.hes.hedeldie

---

## Page 146

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 147

np? TeSSard)

---

## Page 148

a rar. -.

220-8

---

## Page 149

P- 1115-

NEGATWEN

7/22/41 i

---

## Page 150

17:*7

13:39

13:40

3 Guil "'

•? a

fertenece

"juda De Cuba hane do Irsiattendo al

Librerla salero,

24-71-56 que

pita en A.

1:109 11:t35

las prueba le los colatinas.

J* 1355, que 81

Fost: rior.urte

ur incitado que dijo por de la imprenta ladero inicó al

que ya estaban llutag las pru-bus, poro euta mjo

ye: Earann pastran a revisurlas.

Más turdo

POG. 10:A00R10082

pruabas de los boletines

co a sabajada cub na inhico que enseguida lou a reglar 49a8

- 5574.

4 jul 61.

A ROGELIO RODRIGUEZ de la Embajada Cubana que

RESTABN

Martes 1 10112 961

3

ya le ciene codo 980 que ROUBLIC queria".

Icscerloraen:a RO

, po porturo

la inbajada que a la hora que

a frangueo

la entrads.

deque

73t9

R00711O

RobRIcoas de

inbejada Cubana Insistentemente hs e8

tado

tratando de conunicargo

con el ing.

conseguirlo.

---

## Page 151

NE9M020R

dea ta-taris

-ki iine bebaria

iadaata t'à iame!

'itus

P-7365

#67920

---

## Page 152

toaS.in te

-ciesrt.

etia tn -e.

---

## Page 153

6/14//46

NEGATIVES

Rozil Padrgin ligo

---

## Page 154

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 155

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 156

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 157

Tan, d7 11

---

## Page 158

4-00000

6/19/61

NeGATIVES

Fil. -

---

## Page 159

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 160

4-g0001

---

## Page 161

T ..

Rigli Resáur Logary

NEGATIUES

8/10/t1

---

## Page 162

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 163

NEGATIVES

F-7365

---

## Page 164

Mic12

richinte

"p"

Rigilio Posei sues Lopez

---

## Page 165

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 166

4

1962?

---

## Page 167

Rogelis Rodiquez Lopez

(Omother"mame:"

5/29/41:

---

## Page 168

3

---

## Page 169

3

##

---

## Page 170

5/2816%

Rogelo Risiani Logaz

Negaives

---

## Page 171

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 172

34-0000

die leid eines

---

## Page 173

NEGATIUES

5/122/41.

aristo tudo rodaico odoradas

---

## Page 174

14-00000

16 0

linconient

,L..

---

## Page 175

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 176

Open new - Cutan Dip,

Pi Rigelio Roice lopez

NEGATIVES

5/27/61

---

## Page 177

14-00000

i'ne-mpaa foos tin ti peei

Sultorts Poeclio BOPRiCET inner

31 ".:i.1

i" Iot.'I

-e

"=- *i]

rum Mrifrieid follorir

notos for Xxas ii'e files

irpatin:tt'e mnen is äatere sle uneducated , r1s-

Irellinro ars ary: veen (ieca) evnjedn l he baindo! tilla (Bys) etc.

Stlt luas rotlior in Dabro

cirlfiend in lnbrir.

SKS

2112:

i.lt

T:T

MT'! Mp

P-2365-

---

## Page 178

SECRET

("hen Filled In)

PERSONALITY FILE ACTION REQUEST

Consull the-J0g- Control Syaten Roleronee Manual

befuro complarina

enjo form.

printed in block

lestora.

Ford ausp

TO :

RID/POl Section

'DATE

FROM:

ArTION

1100090

PHONE

2. EXCLUDE TRUE MAMÈ PRON MACHINE LIST

RESTAICTED

PERMANENT CHANGE

$Oa

201 NO.

IDA NO:

O, SOURCE DOCUMENT

3...

DATE

NAME

(Lans).

(88888)

(middle)

"Be 0.9 9

• 130.

VARIATIONS

IN

DATA

1° MCE

(Last)

(F1F88)

(Middlo)

aim:

DATE OF BIRTH

19. CITY/TOWN OF BIRTH

1A. COUNTRY OF LOCATION

CODE SC

1S: CUIZENSHID

16, AFEILIATION CODE

B PATTERN ONLY

63

84

65

19.

ADDITIONAL CODES • P B PATTERN ONLY

68

70

73

75

78

77

79

ORGANIZATIONAL OR GROUP AEFILTATION (CIESE SEXEY

19.

ORG/GROUP

COOE

20., OCCUPATION/POSITION (Clear text)

21. OCC/POS AEREVLATION

tcwqrrcw011111010.d0

22.

ACTION DESH

29.

CODE

28. SECONDARY DESH

25. CODE

28. CRYPTONYM

37.

PSEUDONYM

20. COMMENTS

SIGNATURE

БBAM

831 iron:

30.

IDN-

SECRET

201-

138)

---

