# 104-10103-10250

## Page 1

104-10103-10250

TO

1

SENDER WILL CHECK CLASSIFICATION TOP AND BOTTOM

UNCLASSIFIED

CONTIDENTIAL

SECRET

OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP

NAME AND ADDRESS

DATE

Mr. Sturbitts|

3C34A

INITIALS

3

5

6

INSPECTOR GENERAL

76-2344

Monogra'"

ACTION

APPROVAL

COMMENT

CONCURRENCE

Remarks:

DIRECT REPLY

DISPATCH

FILE

INFORMATION

PREPARE REPLY

RECOMMENDATION

RETURN

SIGNATURE

ed.

Returned herewith is the thermofax file

copy of the 27 November 1963 cable (IN

69266) in the AMLASH operation, provided

me to carry to the meeting of ll June 1976

with Senators Hart and Schweiker.

FOLD HERE TO RETURN TO SENDER

FROM: NAME, ADORESS AND PHONE NO.

SDBreckinridge/2E24/5527

UNCLASSIFIED

CONFIDENTIAL

ronNo. 237 Use previous editions

DATE

16 June 76

SECHET

(40)

---

## Page 2

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

placein AMLASH

20/

ROUTING

• DIRECTOR

PARIS

TONE GANE 2M

AMLASH,

DDP, ADOP, C/CA 2, C/CI, C/FI.

3, C/SAS 50 VR

2

SIS C RESENSITIZEGK 2713032

DIR

DESENSITIZEO PARI 1664

T 2 Nu 631469266

APOR MEYHAY PERUMEN UNSIERRA

NSIERRA HIGHLIGHTS PERIOD 18 OCT TURU 18 NOV 63

FLORA

là 21.00T.

UNSNAFI/16 STATES FOLOR DIAZ PARRADO TO BE PROMOTED

O MINISTER

BANK AND RETIRED AT SAME TIME. SHE TO RECEIVE RETIREMTNT

PAY AROAD CL-E• IN FRANCES.

IINSNAFU/12 VERY SITTER ABCUT THIS

UNUSUAL ACTION

2. 29 OCT TARGETS VISITED 3Y JAO SANTIASO. TOTIASi COMPLAINS

KeITTERLY THAT GRAMATIES TRYING TO FIRE NIM. STATESUE WRITING LETTER

TO IMPORTANT OFFICIALS IN CUBA "EXPOSING SITUATION IN EMBASSY.

SANTIAGO STATES EMBASSY RECEIVED LETTER FROM ONE MR TOUZET (COMPENTS"

OF TOLZET LABORATORIES, PARIS WHO TAKING COURT ACTION FREEZE EMBASSY

HURRICANE FLORA RELIEF BAUX ACCOUNT. ACTION BASED ON

EXPROPRIATED TOUZST PROPERTY IN CUBA. SANTIAGO STATES HE WILL

*VITUDRAU BELIEF FIND FROY BANS ON SOOCT. IS ME CAN. INSNAFUIG

MENTIONS EMBASSY MAY MAVE, TO MOVE. (COMMENT: THIS SIBJECT HAS BEEN .

MENTIOVED SEVERAL TIMES UNSIERRA AND TINGOX BUT NO DEFINITE WORD AS

HAS BEEN QUERIED. SVATUVIE STATES MANIO BACIA VONNeL

WAS RECALLED TO CURA AND STATES 45 DIVKS HEAVILY.

the come??

DOI

clerk

Арт

30 OCT./FUNSNAFU/S2 COMPLAINS. BITTERLY ABO!T OFFICIAL

3

SECRET

PRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy No...

---

## Page 3

•ELASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

IN 14:4

"AGE.'?

МОҐОРЗ ТО РАЧІЗ 110 1ОЙ ТИВУ ЗЕ: ЗАТЕ НЕУОТІТ ОТАТЕО МЕ МІне

ME MAD CONCEALED TAPF RECORDER TO RECORD TYESE COVERSATIONS. SHE

INCLInES PAPITO SERGERA

CAS TRANSCRISEND AND ROLANDO

10

" NOV.: MILFREDO LAS VISITS. (TELEPIONS CALL FROM EDITH SOREL

IN WHICH SOREL STATES "FRANQUI IS LEAVING ON THE -12TH". LAM

'CONFIRYS THIS, STATING FRANQUI VROTE TO LAY SAYINS ME COMING PARI,

LONDE THEN PRAGUE AND HAVA MENTIO! OF TETE CASUSO AND FEAR CASUSO

MILE TRY TOX VITH LAN AND USVAFU/12 COON"ENTE VIA WDRUMBLE/2, PAPI

Having

CASUSO ATTEMPT TALK WITH SITY LAM AND IINSNATU/I2).

LAM DISCUSSED POSSIBLE TRIP TO SPAI": SUT STATES HE MOULD ONLY GO

•WIÄM DIPLOIATIC PASSPORT FOR FEAR JF ADES..

UNSVAF:S/12 SIVES HIVA ADDRESS OF NGL REVIELTA:

CALLE 22N00 377A, 3037 Y 110 "IRAT. "CLE 25096.

49511/16

STATES MANY, DAY NON WE WILL TE QUEN SORRAYS TO MOVE. ÜT OF TE

E1 3A33Y"

TENOV. UNSNAN!! 12 SOCTS TO JIAN MARINELLO APPOINTMENT WITH

ANSER, FRUSTRATION, PID TEARS. (COMMENT: APFARENTLY FEELS BETRAYED

BUT NO FIRM INDICATION WHAT COURSE OF ACTION SHE WILL TAKE.,

1O 13 NOU. MORE TALK ABOUT MARINELLO. INSNAFU/LL STATES JUE

FEELS DESPERATE, AND WILL -ATTEND TO YER PRIVATE AFFAIRS.

INSIAFU/16 STATES SUE MAY BRING EVIDENCE OF EMBASSY CHAOS AND

CORRIPTION MOME FOR SACKEEPING AND MAGNAFU/ 1? ENCOUGACES YEE TO DO ED.

AVDRES MORENO, U4O VISITING, STATES COROVA MAY "AVE

TROUBLE SEING

ACCEPTED OY FRENCY IN VISH MIS COMMUNIST AGITATOR PAST. STATES

"NECKET

---

## Page 4

CO, MESSAGE

3

MIPIRAT FOR 415 NOMINATION. UNSNAFUVI? CONNENTS THAT FIDEL CASTRO 15

"REAS PERSONNEL CHANIES NOU SO THAT WIEN KHRUSHCVEV VISITS CUBA

ISIT VILL. IMPLY HIS TACIT ACKNOWLEDGE"ENT OF

THESE CHANGES, INSNAFIVI2 MENTIONS THAT FIDEL IS AFRAID OF MET

BECAUSE DE RECORDINGS OF CONUERSATIONS WHICH TOOK PLACE IN 1959

WICH SNAFILE MAS IN MEN POSSESSION. ECOMMENTS NO FURTHER

CLATIFICATION. AND MAY POSSIBLY BE TYPICAL UNS.AFU/12 BOASTING).

FIRTU57 COVENT ABOUT MARINELLO AND UNSNAFI/12 STATES SHE MAY

HAVE TO VACATE APARTMENT. STATES "'E "ILL FIND

SUMETHINS SUT. I DONT BELIEVE WE WILI. BE IDE FOR TANY PORE

MONTHS®®

3O COMMENTO SCATTERED COMMENTS THEONST OUT LATER TRANSCRIPISITO

EFSECT THAT MANY PEESOUNEL CHANGES JOICE DU IN CHRA NO THATOLD 28

"SILY PEOPLE BEEM TO BE SAIVING STRENGTY, CASNAFINIE SEEMS FEEL THAT

MARINELLO ANDÇORÓNA 9SING SENT AROAD TO GET RID OF THEM FOR A WHILE.

SE C RE T KAPOK

---

