# 104-10180-10016

## Page 1

104-10180-10016

•L UNCLASSIFIED

US

ROUTINO AND RECORD SHEET

CANFIDENTIAL

(7

SECRET

03

AC/ME/K/CI-FI

ON TO June 1951

GATE

BATALA

DC, MH DiTtalon

FETUEN TO CIA

Eackground Use Only

¿Do Not Reprocuce

1].

MIC 610 A EJ SECRET

CORFIDENTIAL

701-272262

IRTEEN AL

USE OMLY

• UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 2

175÷

MEMORANDOM FOR: Deputy 04.10:, i DITio: an

SEBJECT

REY TRENCE

:

Noeling ni

arid

Norman HOTHMAY

8 Tour drai directise of Mursday, 24 June 1961"

1.

On mursday, 29 June 1961,. I ma: vie. Norman RUTIMAN and

Darid McCONK 1n the office ol' the Depiy Atiorre; Genurai to

evaluato, per your directre, Mr: BOTs'S ciain 10 cueiational

assets 1naide Cuba and elsewhere

it was agreed by the

participants of this meting that Mr. ROTHMAN wouid return to

Mian1.0a Friday, 30 June, and that Mr. MeCChiTi wolld calephone

me at the offico of the Lepity Attorey Gererai on Med-endate:

5 July, for our evaluation of MP. POTEMAT's operatiazal potential

in Caban affaire.

2. Mr. AcCONVan requested to net with me privataly ir the

conference room.

He acrised no that he was a leadiae political

figure 1n the Denocrat1= Party machtre 1. Nori Carollin, tha: he

vas acquaintod with amero-s Governer:: figures in Mashiraton

(Including Robert Tenrecy, General Taylor, and Serera it: Fleeti,

that he was a corporate tax large. to vas diing very weir ln his

home town of Charlotte, forth Caroiina, and

thai no was concered

over the embarrasamant to the Kennody ain 1st:41107 caused by

the Cuban "flanco," No lurchor auriadd mo that his tnterest in

chlo case was that of an American antlois to fight Corrunist in

the Westerr. Rentaphere and 1o ensure dia: tho C.S. Grierrart

mado maximi use of operattural potential as represented in the

person and clains of Mr. ROTHMAN.

Mr. MeCONSTii

nosed triat,

according to ROTTIN'S SOUTY, POTIMAN had assete ard capabilities

whicn

would arabie his (ROrMN) to destroy the arma disas on the

plantation of ex-Preaident CARDENAS of Mexico, to se: up parationai

basea in to Yucatar at a cost of $50 is 11,000, to sabotage targeti

1n Cuba Identtried by the Ü.S. Governant, and es provide posteve

Intelligasce on the actiricles of Cntross Communist groups in the

Western Reudaphare.

...

2. ...

---

## Page 3

1d-0d0d

3. I anod the peinto 110?0d by Mi. McCOrE es dobria

ME- ROTHM on hia cinino of assola vich cas be used agairat

cuba and other rargets 10 the Western Heristhere. Mr. ROTENAN

paid no that ho vas an tierican citizer, born on 26 December 1924,

at New York City, that he runs the ber in the Bel Air foral,

Miami, Florida, that he vas furroris the oner of "Sans Soul, *

• nigoraina In Havana, end that he ired at 425 Surfalde Boulevard

1n Min!,: Pord: During the laterier Mr. ROTAN, when questioned

on those points of potential liated by Mi. McCONNEli above, mde

the following atatemento!

He 1s a dedicated anti-Cornist and is particularly

'Intereited in vortire agilant CASTLO who recuted three of

•. Ala cione, denr Irlends.! ther naked for the namea of these

frienda, Mr. ROTENAN was not adie to

five these in me.

After ten miutes,

'he named these friends as Rogello COATE

(war name - "Francisco"); Sort NARIN, and Irigento FERNANDEZ:

He has an operational capability to destroy ares dumps

which he claims ure locited on the finca of ex-president

CARDENAS of Meaico.

He has contact with agent agseta located

In Herco through durtaln 'Morican friends ston he rarised

to 1 dentity.

He added that La had made contact as racently

AB-Lour to

five months ago

with these Median friards.

C.

He la very fantliar with she carrair and peopio ci

the fucatan paninsula.

itan asied for the date of his last

volt to the Tucatan,

he said that he had bean there for

two days at some time 1n 1959. He added that 'he had constructed

an air strip at sone point in tie lucasar which vas capable

of taldng two B-20's and two P-51's.

He said that no one

orms of the location or exiatence of this particular air sulp.

. Whan aakod who had built the strip and when 1: was bulle,

Mr. ROTHMAN Bald that the strip had beer built by Indian

stande-ine 1440-p067704-046 to him chat certainiy these

Iodlan sriends would know of 148 exiatence, he said that they

vere loyal to him and that no ore in the provincial or natioral

governmants of Mexico knew of this atrip.

when asked 1f a

plane had ever landed on this strip, Mr. ROTHMAN suld Uhat

ore B-26 had landed there.

When asked hot he managed to

provide fuel and maintenance for aircraft lucated a: this

8L21p, Mr. ROTHN vas not ablo, or chose nor, to fire 20

erset reply.

---

## Page 4

.::

• d.

Ro 1a vall acquainted with Sanchez ARUO. He sald

Chat he more troquenty vies ARANJO and corsicers b1m a

good personal friand.

when questioned; Mi. ROTMAY said

that he had luat set XI. ARATOO s1t weeks ago. He sad not

ablo to fare the hono address of str. ARiloo. Eo said that

de vould be ablo to produco Mr. AHANDO 1a lashington as.

wy reseet.

Mr. BOTHMAN euld that he had the personnel and

• empabilities to atrick

: or sabotago any target of our choosine

1a Caba..

He sald that he hnd a basic plar for the assasain

t10a of Midal GASTRO.

He suld that his pins called for

Lr track with sapalm against CASTRO at a time when thos

Prime Matter was addressing one of hio fallles 1n Haina.

He sald that te had one hundred pilota ho had participatod

In the Invasion of Cube and who were now asking employment

an flyers for the Congolese A1r Force.

He refused to. 1dentis

any of the pilota by name.

then it was pointed out to his

tont the sames of those pilots ankirg employment in the Corgo

were a natter. 0f suhlls rocard, to paid shat those pilota

Is whos he was particularly Interested were not making

application for such exployment.

He aaid that he had mary agenta going in and out of

Caba.

When asked how many agenta he controlled, Mr. ROTHYAN

vas not ablo to give ar exhit figure. When he vas asked

hou many agents ho sent into Cuba during the last year, he

was not able to give an exact figure.

When asked how mazy

agenta ho vas 1n contact with this dato, ME. BOTAN gaTo the

MaTe of six.

When I asked hou these agento vere able to:

travel back and lorth In vies of the diffioultles in mirg

trequent visite to Cuba, Mr. ROTDUN said that his agente

were in the tourist travel bureaus of in export impart

banisesses, and antered the states via third councries. Wen

anicod at wat date he had last had contact vic

those agents,

Mr. BOTH was dot able to fire an eract dato.

wald that with theen unraned assete abore, he had the

oapability to make money archanges between the United States

und Caba, and offered to bo of service to the U.S. Government

In ary roguirement along this line.

into carada iron Caba.

He. sald that he. knew of mary Chinese Comurists going

When asked to identity the source of

into Information and the nerds of those Chinese, Mr. ROTHHAN

wald that he had not brought ary record informalas vita him

and did not feal he coald be asked to produce his factual data

at this tine.

i... ...

---

## Page 5

Ee added that be also In

Commandat groups in Ilmi

these Chinose Com

to do no.

He exp

charges standing C

mi running net

• 'Ho satd

an behalt of the frit

would truck the stuff

ha (Mr. BCTENT) would

He said that. he had purc

20 foot whip "toler

which un the Mrit bont

upport the underground in

Cuba. He aided that he

erythint that CIA planned

In martine operations;

for: the Layas

1. Ho auld that he vas a close friend of John Abbes

Garcia, Calar of the Dominican Repuallo Security.

Ho said

that his Inse T1o1t to the Dodatoas Repubile was In 1959.

Ho end that he had acoons to peoplo in the Dontaican Republte.

He did not Identity further these narata sor did ho Idantity

the mana of comication to then.

At the conclusion of the intarren with t. rotAl,

D. AcCOluLi, anod to see no privataly.

During. this Inter 1e,

I'. Noconut again aphasised that his interest in this case vas

alanly that of e good Amrican to vas Interested 1n flgating

Countan

Ir. Moconk sald that, in his opinion, an individual

with Mr. BOTHAT'a character. and background cartatniy abould be

marul la the gioren off fight aguinat Commatan. Ho falt that.

1t adele be to the sational Interest to make uno of ME. ROTELAI

gaInst CASTRO and agalaat Cormnlan in the Western Henlophere,

and civa precedenoe to this use over any intent to prosecute

Mr. ROTTMAN for Tolations of Fedaral lano.

AgaIN MI. MCCONNELI

nanod his acquaintances in the Departmeat of Defenso, 10 the

Department of rustico and In the White Houne. Ho added, at this

tims, that he mas ectartalning the thought of entering the acadria-

tratlon 1n

some arcial caproity.

---

## Page 6

comment

I BOrIur did not satiety no that he has

ontrato taone agent and material annero to which be layo claim.

do

not ballero it 1a ta the interent of the U.S. Cotermat to

tuch nith notaul these partiontar claim. I bellen

anto moula be advised of our evaluation sit her. Borin'"

mataly. I alao bellito that ir lito on a soprestativo

Brim

the don

Lndoed

epartmant of furtice should advlee Mr. loconct tant

mont to not nitrofind it

orntion wildl noriter

Intributtons

Addr sampe

1 - WHA/CI

---

