104-10267-10420) 1

T perme) T ) FRO ACH

aes eae

oF..VE Division __ eSuinee pestis nda atonement genres
Chief, Special Affaire Start Jone quaeso acs
Quiet of Station, IKAVE : a atet meme
_[eocres

There are attached contact reports dated 11 March, 28 Maresh, 2 April,
sod 15 April 1964 covering sestings with LITKKIL~9. >,

Willard C, CURTIS

Attachbesnts:
Coutast Reports
Mirage
Bistribstion:
ERR 0 0! Yous
8 = COS KAVE watt
2- Piles
Team
eee Ems _zes8
7 aussi =f
i azeng? | won = prong



Swcerpt froa Attachnent te,

eecee

Joi LF turned over the] Jotter to MIRABAL.
HIRABAL seened to feol he had a hot potato on his hands, was very un-
confortable and even a bit scared and said, "I'll have to discuss

this with the Axbassador." (1-9) notes that MIRASAL is cowardly,
timorous, not at all like his predecessor AZCUS who was the epitone

of self confidence and control. (L-9\finis this interesting since AZCUE
was not a Commnist and MIRABAL 4s — the Coxzunist is really the
weakling in spite of all the strength that supposedly cones from
‘nowing that Marxism-Leninism is right.)

Excerpt from Attach=ent to

FMA-23268-
23 April 196%


peprusry 1564 .
MM foAa Q30/¢
Mp r ine Do

Pons

hae

FRM 4g Lawrence Fy Sarvey
SUNT 4 Menting MNYTTYD 9) 37 Jon 1764

L, A nesting with Ca9ptook n'ace fren 2019 vti? 215 Nowrs 30 Jaa
1544 at the safe epartrent. (L-% 19 in stroarisiccly good spirits, shoved
‘none of his usual deprassion, as

2. (Le9)reporte? on the fallesing:

& Cn Saturday 16 Jan at the nscal Entassy staff mesting, severe]
now assignients vere pissed out. A “trea month plan" wae
announced ard during this periot staf? members, in addition
. ‘%e thefr uscal duties, will orepare special reports on several
wt x topics. Raul APARICIO will do a report on the Nations) University e«
$41 physical slant, stuzent body, activities, ways in wich the Cuban
overnnent.can exert influence, *tce’ Le will
Dre.

7 e ___| Dre.
eat w PAGHADO will do a repers on countries which have diplomatic re=
Tations with Cuba -- nz how centact with representatives
here in Mexico of such coun'ries sy be parlayed into sonething
p73 ‘more worthwhile for the Castro zovrrwnt. Rogelio RODRIGUEZ wap
1 given an assignment as Political Reporting Officers

2

: 2 of the Comercial Office =~ ho hes -

plod recently been ensrzing fanatics} Fidelista - apoke out about
the recent secord betwern te 1552 and Cuba, saying that-1% wns
convenient for the S82 to keep on “he good aide of Cuba and thus

«. pghs Keep a dagger in the back of the tmertalists, Anbassador HERNANDEZ

F347" areas, scrmhat taken aback by RUIZ! language, pointed out that the
relationship between the WSR and Guba {s based, above all, on th

highest principles of international friendship. jot yy:
"SRUDENID, visited +

Last Wednesday (29 Jan) a Soviet official, 2orts T.

the Cultural Department snd ssoke with APARICID GnO[L=Pa Ee9) took
pains to "be a good Cormunist” during this encounter, (This cone : :
versation was picked up by (STRAP) RUDENKD wan aleo at the hone of
Horacio LOPES Sanchez on the 26th after the Martd havge' session ‘
at the Cuban Culture] Inctituts, : 5

At this meeting Gat

|
!

A Bolivian wonan = nam poosib?y VILLLLBA — was recently at the
uo. =e “Hotel Oxford with 7 children, waitiag to go to Cuba to join her i
paar “ —shusband tho works there, AL-Dydeiieves she has gone cn to Cubs, !

H d, Cn 17 January Cuban delegates to the CEPAL Conference visited the ©

Embassy and spoxa with Mabsssy employees, One of these delegates, — « :
referring to the Nicaro plant in Cuon,seid that only 12 engineers 4
of the original 37 revstned, Of - ese, a man named (fu) PRESILIA ‘
was still doing an excellent Job altiough he is physically in poor : .
condition, The dicaro plant specificatly, amt techniciens throughout i
Cuda in generel, are having a hard tine with the decimal eystea used | ae
by the Usk in its tecrntcal equipment, The delegates said that
Se Saad LE aad s: RUPE reraoL aire nets (ot alee



the Esbassy the
finet out! TOREZ,

tehat yea ‘

On 23 January Cecor OCNCFPCIO was standing at tha'gate ‘tien the .

mailvan errived vith @ letter for the iatessador, This letter: ia
wee frvet Lic, DUE Criar — « said, *T caw st with ay. :
own eyes, the envelays had 2/42 Cnlas! nase on it? :

Ge On 2) Jan a Venesuelan wennn pared 2:
Seoaasys She vas staying at the ote! virreyes,
was trying to sell exhibition rights to a file entitled haet u
¥ Crimen® which had teen filned in Venesuela and shown only twice
before tha government ahut it dom and pronibited future showings,
labelling the fila of *inproper social tendenciea,® BEJARAKO
said that she planned to stay in Maxico shout a week and would also
contact the Soviet end Czech Ontussies in an effort to sell the .
film and recoup some of the cost of projucing it, She was told” the’
her _her proposition would be relayed tu Hevana,

A a
he A young Cuban doctor, named Silysri a 3a ein hy a
trying to return to Guba, Ho ues in the Eabesay dan end
been there before. 7
oa 28 Jan

4, The Marti comencration at the Institute/ms a big success s
2 of people showed up. The speakers vere Enmanei2 CARBALLO, ie
oan APARICID, Gaston ¥2L0, Ernesto MEJTA Sanches, and Ereilo ABREU

Comms. .
rys f. rs
Je After the affair at thé“Institute a crow of theas present went to
the hone of Horacd SS Sanches of Pallas Artes, CARBALID did

fl 3D not want to.go Tor Sono redson unknown to(l-9y While at FLORES
! place,(La9vsuw that Raul PEREIRA "Raulito! seemed very interested
aoe Dae Sanches and asket 4 number of questions about Mala

t FLORES 48 a vel kro howoreual, (LIEIOY ehovs that

fe 4 pal Pare olsiaise Denceexual)
ke Severe) days ago Ana Berta*oRTsna do ARAOO cane to visit ‘ths :

he
a

Cultura} ene gente eo WES ACCT, the brother of the
Mexican Serta YAGALLON — he 8 danc: ‘She said she

1s director of the “Tita” dancing stntic located at Monte Araret,
Leona, Lanes TeLlaces She woul Uks.to go to
Cuba te scck up sce calturs Pita

1, At 1330 houre @1 Jan Danilo > hes ecaande, a Honduran, viaited the
¢ Cultural Deper taent, Ha lives in Pusdla at Peabla 13 Sur 3307-13.

“PI3US “Later on be.spoke with Rogelio RO221SUEZ and ——
"Rogelio doesn't sem to trust no,

The Brastlian-Polish Engineer(Le' LaPymer at the airport has gone on

hye to Cuba, This nan (SETIDE) is "very corredh, does not aay mach,
pofur-t ogee
The After, Teresa ® ims scen off at the elzport, Oscar CONCEPCION

* that sho hat been fired on orders of President DORTIOUS

oe got tired of recetving repcrte that a fanous international

“Pp 1 Nex deviate (fancea "torelilern™ internactenel). eae working at the
uf Babasey. DORTIOOS fired her for *imoral ocaduat.® -

atl oe
2 POR ae i i
: Heme SECRET i



her a pareonai
bo SeFyabont this but
{ew eiose friend of

etter atdreaset bol > .
armed hin nos to tells
2S6

i Ae Tereg

syee's

Om Yotnenday ant Thursday (22 and 32 pa) iB i
of the 1el S was one

elf te ba quite aggressive

Qe Quiliermo AYIZ has been gheutny
spears to be a violeat ,

politically fn stare net
partisan of the Castro rest,

mp MTBARE, han been lets aprovseiv® than before, hae recently besa

if in the dupe avi hes Leen sporting a let of tine talking

as

fis \to Dra, MAGHADO, The Awbassator ‘old Oras MACHADO that MIRABAL
i. Hextedn Fook don't cot akon: Laie"hers

6e Felipe POJAS, Mexlean employes of ths Cultural Sectica = who. ”
handles distribution of Castro prowpanda to people who visit the
Exbassy ~~ has teen riven @ desk in the Culture] Section, This mas
only earns about 5 + Tok pesos per month. (L-9°SAYS TRAT ROJAS:
OULD BE BOURT ep 15 Av! =] He 2a about 28-30 years old,

from Tuba, There is ecme tak that
iM, althouch she is much older,
aps a labor leader there,

pot

Coty. SCLORZAID has rz
she picht mares Jesus 5
SOT is some sort of lesce

2 oe On Sunday 26 Jen a grow of Chinese acrobats paid a courtesy
YD visit to the Exbasay, The ienaer of this group sald that Senator
Banuel YOREN) | :

Si was at the Embassy, She. aid

: Y cre On Mordsy 27 Jan Boloras

y git hopes to go to the US to eGres ria dohnson-Lopes: Mateos: ..
Ae

r

Arvas are great friends
and that she had seen an ome which DIAZ Ordas seat to the
Amb, Sha appeared to be quit» nset that Victor RICO Galan had
den Savited to Cuha but that she had not, She wants to interview
Fidel GASTIO again, REDCES 1s ea Avertean oitixen,lirees

ree ae tabi 63, Oe dacguters Ke, Teresa
ve An Inerican panel fre? ® swineing champion, bas bees

"Gn tha Bhbassy tee to ioierrt his plan to swim fros Cuba to
1 Florida and set a new world record, APARICIO remrked tolL-9}
oan tat Af they let tals nut tres 2 Cuban to neke this ewia (aa be
x wants tu do) it would protebly result in Snousands Of Cubans toing

(Ltereod and P have picked up

the sara thing to get out. {
BALOASAz}.

X_ Sove youngsters fron a group called the "Horiniento Cultural
7 staxicano? have been trying to est:h1ish Zood conta
a : Ixsassy. The president. spc ses iaRe phone 23-24-39, The
Vice-Prasident 43 Eataelicri:8, phone 21917463, address Avenida
Contra Nox 266.8, Cole-ta Pro Houary The Subsearetary cde .
nteat potdies phone Th
Sens arth Festivi oa BSc aay 33e8 ch ‘proof’ of the
vs

é

wT



extent of thelr lore
Knog rh ht REE wey f

Je CaSvasked B to get hin a book about ths nvincer Arshile OOREY, This
hock fe pubuished by the Uhitnay Museaa of frtricoas rt, The Nacaillan Company’,
Now York, 1957. It will be ordered from iX3 separate)

k, The meeting had to be ent short since 5 tad to go elsewhare to weet and
asses an agect prospect vho waa planing to leave Moxtco City the next mornings

According’ y, it was agreed that ano’ier are‘ing woul! be bald on Tuesday 4 February
at 2X0 at the safe apartnent, (L-Pwitl de mild li!s January salary at that tine,

oO F faking _

