ce , oo

— Lo Loy POW

DISPATCH | ..cn) | =

P 7 Tare Ea
3 —F ‘aaa foe wore
“Chief, Special Affairs Sta MICROFICMER, Ff [10 mop scones
“ JAN ZU TS54 Chitin,
n : ft Seta moe: ma
L- . * 1¢ DOC. MICRO. SER. ABSTRACT 4
on 7 k —| werorUE

susitct OPERATIONAL/TYPIC/AMFAUNA

(¢_AMFAUNA-26 Progress Report for October, November and December 1963
"ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

Action Required: For Your Information

Reference: UFGA-11700, dated 14 October 1963

Operational Developments:

1. Seven SW messages were received from AMFAUNA-26 during the
period, and two were sent to her. Two SW messages written by AMFAUNA-2'
no, 34 and no. 36, have -not been received and it is not known what has
happened to them, It. has been observed that mail to and from Cienfuego:
is very slow and uncertain; SW message no. 10 sent to AMFAUNA-26 on 6
November did not reach her until 22 December,

2. A continuing effort was made during the period to activate
AMFAUNA-26's OWVL and medium speed radio systems. OWVL transmissions
were begun on 16 October with message no, 1 warning AMFAUNA~26 of the
arrest of AMFAUNA-14 the week before (see AMFAUNA-1 Progress Report for
October, November and December 1963) and the fact that AMCUTLER-2 was
under surveillance, AMFAUNA-26 was unable to receive this message. In,
her SW message no, 35 of 25 October, she reported that her radio set is
calibrated in meters instead of kilocycles and she had been unable to
find the correct. frequency, JMWAVE then sent AMFAUNA-26 instructions
for" converting kilocycles to meters, and began transmitting dummy
messages, giving AMFAUNA~26 a simple code for reporting by commercial
telegram whether she was receiving them, and whether and with what books|
she was able to decipher.

3. Two sets of deciphering materials had been sent to AMFAUNA-26,
One package was buried by AMGLEN-9 in Pinar del Rio Province (see WAVE-
5887 of 16 October 1963), and AMFAUNA-26 was informed of its location

in OWVL message no, 1 of 16 October and SW message no. 10 of 6 November.|
A previous set of number groups had been sent to her by SW early in

" Continued.......eeeee

meet HE c

2 ian
Hype 49 +e
9 gan 1gg4_}:%
" ee ee ee eee ——_—

‘DISPATCH SYMBOL AND HUNGER
UFGA-13428
<<,



13-00000

SATE GYMBOL AND ete)

UFGA-13428
‘October, .It now appears that AMFAUNA-26 never regeiggt either of these
‘sets of groups.” As of 22 November when AMFAUNA-26's sistertOlga arrived
in Mextco (see paragraph 5), AMFAUNA-26 already had in:her possessfon + }
the letter containing the groups written in SW, but either had tridd and
failed to develop it, or had hesitated to try to do so, not knowing in
what strength to use the reagent and erroneously thinking that this was
a critical factor, As mentioned previously, AMFAUNA-26 did not receive
SW message no, 10 until 22 December; on the. following day she sent an
open telegram to the son of AMFAUNA-32 in Miami, confirming her willing-
ness to travel to Pinar del Rio and recover the material. It is not
known whether she actually did so.

~ + CONTINUATION OF

+ EERSSTFRETION “
DISPATCH

SECRET

4. It had been planned, once AMFAUNA-26 wa; ving OWVL and
her ability to recover caches confirmed, to have{AMWEE-l)cache AMFAUNA-1
radio. and to inform AMFAUNA-26 of its location by OWVL. Events did not
permit this.

5. AMFLORA-1 sent.a telegram to his JMWAVE area accommodation
address on 16 November 1963, reporting that his wife,: the sister of
AMFAUNA-26, was due to arrive in Mexico City on 20 November. Mexico
City Station was so informed on 18 November (see WAVE-7762), but by the
time confirmation arrived (MEXI-7031 of 23 November) ‘the lady had
already departed for Caracas. The oral messages which she brought from
AMFAUNA-26 therefore did not reach JMWAVE until 20 December when HVCA-
10780 was received. - This dispatch transmitted a typewritten note from
AMFLORA-1's wife containing the following information:

a. AMFAUNA-26 had run out of developer pills. (In retrospect,
this does not seem to be true, because AMFAUNA-26 was evidently able to
develop SW message no. 10 which she received on 22 December (see paragrajt:
3).- What AMFAUNA-26 had probably been trying to convey was that she
was running very short of pills. AMFAUNA-1-does not remember how many
he gave her, but the most probable number appears to be twelve.)

b, AMFAUNA-26 had been unable to develop the SW message
containing her cipher groups, because she had not been told how to mix
her reagent.

c.’ AMCUTLER-2 was very worried by the fact that AMFAUNA-14
had been telephoning her frequently, and was afraid that AMFAUNA-14 was
betraying her to the DSE.

d. AMFAUNA-26 was uneasy about being left in Cuba without a
responsible leader to report to.

e. AMFAUNA-26's cover was wearing very thin, due to indis-
cretions , by. AMFAUNA-31,

6. In her: SW message no. 29, which was received at JMWAVE on 21
October, AMFAUNA-26 reported that AMFAUNA-38 had been arrested on 7
September and taken to Santa Clara, At 0200 hours on the following
morning, fourteen policemen came to AMFAUNA-26's house and searched it
on the pretext of looking for a burglar. However, the only part of the
house which they searched was the part inhabited py, AMFAUNA-26.

Ae ~e s ’
vt. “7, Im her SW message no. 30, AMFAUNA-26/Meported the full names
6f two individuals who had approached her sub-agents AMFAUNA-29 and
| SMPAUNA-31, claiming tqzbe doing underground york against CASTRO. These

persons are one Amable FSANCHEZ Borroto and ne Raul ¥SIMON Delgado.

While neither JMWAVE nor Headquarters (DIR-78835 of 30 October 1963)
had any traces on these persons, JMWAVE has a carded reference to a
sensitive source document which carries the full name of Amable SANCHEZ
Borroto and the implication that he enjoys the confidence of the Cuban
Government. Unfortunately, an error was made.in gyping the card, and
the document is unrecoverable. “In SW messa, £10," AMFAUNA-26 was
told to be careful:with the person. this cask

aitretan: Haribecd My.
A eee Zor apa a!
ios s

GLASBIFICATION

9" 89a.-> Use previous eDITrON.— EC R-E

5:
(40)



DISPATEH SYHBOU AND NUMBER

UFGA-13428

CONTINUATION OF :
5 DISPATCH - SECRET

8. -On 12 October 1963, AMFAUNA-26 was in iv agit wher she saw
AMCUTLER-2." About 23 or 24 October she was again in wanatand again
saw AMCUTLER-2. On’ bdth occasions the problems posed by the arresti‘of ; ||
AMFAUNA-14 were the prime topic of discussion. t

9. In outgoing SW message no, 9 of 30 September, AMFAUNA-26 had
been asked to investigate a Cuban naval officer named Carlos *LOPEZ
Avalos with a view to forming an opinion as. to his political attitude,
She reported. in SW message no. 37 of 3 November that all reports on
this individual were derogatory except for one given by AMLAME-5, This
report reache IFAUNA-26 via AMFAUNA-31 who got it from a man identified
only as Ramon PEREZ who said that AMLAME-5 had told him that he had a
contact to the.Swiss Embassy, and that LOPEZ was already connected with
people outside of Cuba apd had recently performed a at service fo;
the counterrevolution, Grebe, Ste Aer avr ontak
=
vere

—— scores
10. when the arresttof“Aicu eRe teooue REE SH

AMFAUNA-1 Progress Report for Qctober, November and December 19633=- th
son of AMFAUNA-32 was asked to phone his mother in Cienfuegos’ and instruc]
her to tell AMFAUNA-26 to-go into hiding, On 3 January the son reported
completion of the call and said that his mother had told him that
AMFAUNA~26 had: been arrested on 29 December and taken to the Santa Clara
prison, q

“. 11, The reason’ for AMFAUNA-26's arrest ‘remains obscure, or rather
there are s0 many acceptable explanations that the problem is to select
the right one, She could have been implicated by AMFAUSA-38, as would
seem to be suggested by the fact that her house was searched immediately
following AMFAUNA-38's arrest; if so, however, it is hard to explain
why AMFAUNA-26 herself was not arrested until three and one-half months
latex. She could have been denounced by AMCUTLER-2 who was herself
arrested two or three days before AMFAUNA-26's arrest; this seems unlikell
in view of the fact that AMCUTLER-2 and AMFAUNA-26 are friends, that when
AMCUTLER-2 reaches the point where she is ready to implicate other
members of the AMFAUNA net she could be expected to begin with people |
who are not her friends, and that at least one such person (AMFAUNA-25)
was known to be at liberty as recently as 4 January 1964, as were two of
the cutouts between AMFAUNA-26 and AMCUTLER-2 (AMPAUNA-32 and AMFAUNA-33);
AMCUTLER-2 is’ believed to have been under surveillance by the DSE, at:
least sporadically, between 12 and 24 October (see AMFAENA-1 Progress
Report for October, November, and December 1963), and AMFAUNA-26 could |
have been observed and identified when she visited AMCUYLER-2 during
this period and: marked for subsequent arrest and interrogation in
connection with AMCUTLER-2's activities. AMFAUNA-26 could have made an
attempt between 22 and 29 December to recover the cached cipher groups
(see paragraph 3), and either been detected in the act or arrested while

trying to contact AMCUTLER-2 on the same trip; in this case, however,
it would seem that the DSE would not have transported her ali the way
back to Santa Clara ‘but would have kept her in Havana for concurrent
interrogation with AMCUTLER-2, The open telegram sent to the son of
AMFAUNA-32 on 23 December was rather indiscreet and could have caused
difficulties for the sender, but some of these difficulties ought in this
case to have brushed off on AMFAUNA-32 herself, and as of 3 January 1964
she was still at Liberty.

6

a ei 1

apace ANG Take rte] :
(HULAKE-1)on 8 January 1964 indicates
mn 26 December, possibly in

connection w}th a suspected ot against the life of Fidel CASTRO, and
that at least seventeen pefsons had been taken. One of these persons
appears to/be AM = the best of JMWAVE's knowledge, neither
AMFAUNA-26 nor AMLAME-5 had been involved in any plot against the life
of Fidel CASTRO, but both could have been high on a general suspect list,
The only known factor common to both AMLAME-5 and AMFAUNA-26 is the
Ramon *PEREZ mentioned in paragraph 9. AMLAME-5 evidently was extra-
ordinarily indiscreet when he talked with this mam. AMIFAUNA-31 has also :
spoken with him, and according to the oral message brought out by
AMFAUNA-26's sister (see paragraph 5-e) AMFAUNA-31 has been habitually
indiscreet. Ramon PEREZ was thus in a position to denounce both AMLANE-5,
and AMFAUNA-26. If 80, AMFAUNA-31 also ought to have been implicated,
and it is perhaps significatn in this connection that, of all of

SL ARSIEIGATION

eects eee (ce

PACK NO
3


* CONTINUATION OF

CLRSSIFIEATION
DISPATCH |

Ss ECRET UFGA~-13428

St., Apt, 10; Miami; abd) a former collaborator of the AMFAUNA net in

UFG-4266 Field Comment Only

"Future Plans:

i es
AMFAUNA-26's sub-agents, AMFAUNA-31 is the only one hiseveq to be in

hiding as of 9 January; (see WAVE-9940 of 4 January).

13. There has been no. previous mention of Ramon PEREZ in the t
AMFAUNA operational reporting, and JMWAVE has no identifiable traces g
im, AMFAUNA-1 was asked about him on 6 January, and produced
‘ollowi formation which he had obtained from Antonio Remigio, SstRADil
Diaz (DoE Octobe, 1939, Cienfuegos fs¥now residing atj425 S.W. 5th

Cienfuegos, Ramon PEREZ is-an employee of the Consolidado de Transporte,
lives.on Calle Arguelies in Cienfuegos between Prado and Gacel, and has
a*son, name unknown, who drives a taxi. Rew way Rewer
Gy 261 a2dla ie
14,- On 5 and 6 January 1964, warn’ a mi aeiges-were Sent -to AMFAUNAS|
29, 30, 31 and 33 by Antonio Remigio ESTRADA Diaz and by AMFAUNA-1
(see WAVE-0045 of 7 January 1964),

Production:
15, The following reports were made:

UFG-3918 Loading of a ‘Ship at La Isabela with trailers Carrying 40-
foot Long Covered Objects

UFG-3941 Relocation of Radar Installations & Other Activities at the
Cienfuegos Surface-to-Air Missile Site, Las Villas Province

UFG-3947 Installation of an unusual Light at Cifuentes SAM Missile
Assembly Base, Las Villas Province; Dress, Habits, & Expected|
Departure of Soviets at Cifuentes

UFG-3948 Increase in the Number of Tanks & Soviet Personnel at the
Sagua la Grande SAM Missile Site; Relocation of a Sagua la
Grande Soviet Headquarters

UFG-3974 Departure of Soviets from the Remedios Area; Movement of
Trucks, Guns, & Soviet Personnel in Las Villas Province

UFG-3998 Military Defense Measures at Cayo Loco, Las Villas Province

UFG-4088 Arrival of Unexplained Vehicles at Las Auras, Cienfuegos &
Dismantling of that Base

UFG-4141 Cuban Military Occupation of Former Soviet Camps Near Yoquadah
& at Fincas La Puntilla, La Bajada, & Rojas

UFG-4180° . Removal of Some Equipment & Personnel from the Soviet Base
at Itabo, Las Villas Province

UFG-4272 ' Alleged Transfer of all Cuban Militiamen to the Central Army,
New Defense Measures Along the Southern Coast of Las Villas
Province

Expenses:

16. Three separate remittances each of $270.00 or a total of
$810.00 were sent to AMFAUNA-26 during this period. By previous agree-
ment one quarter of the money was to be given to AMFAUNA-32 and three-
quarters was to be retained by AMFAUNA-26. The first two remittances
were sent to AMFAUNA-32 by her son, and each was acknowledged by telegram.
The third remittance, at the telegraphed request of AMFAUNA-26, was sent
to AMFLORA-1 in Caracas, Evidently his wife came to some arrangement
with AMFAUNA-26 before she left Cuba.

17.. Communication will be maintained with AMFAUNA-33, first by

by clandestine means, for the purpose of
‘GLASIFICATION 1 PAGER

"SECRET a 4

continues



5 & i]

DISPATEH SYMBOL AND NUMER

om CinBeIFERTION
+ CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH SECRET

UFGA-13428

jlearning the status and whereabouts of affected ae af OF the AMFAUNA-
26 group. As soon as the situation has crystallized? ie _wHereabouts
of burngd agents learngd, and secure communications established, an.

attempt will be made to. exfiltrate endangered personnel.

End of Dispatch

CLASSIFICATION T FAGENO,

=H.

a, .
BS9a-~- “Use PREVIOUS eBITION.

SECRET conrimueo | 5

