# 104-10151-10201

## Page 1

104-10151-10201

CHA LATERNAL USE ALY

Touraal - Office of Legislative Connsel

Tuesday -°7 December 1976

J

HSCA

77-0012/1

Page 2

Dest

6. (Unclassified - NDL) LIAISON In response to a letter

from Representative Robert W. Edgar (D.; Pa.) concerning an

article in The Sunday Bulletin entitled "CIA Disputes Broomall

Wiretap Story, " which contained erroneous information concerning

the Congressman, I called Kathy Keel, the Congressman's personal

secretary, and told her that a letter had been forwarded by our

General Counsel to the Department of Justice on 3 December 1976

secking their assistance in investigating this matter. She thanked

me for my call and said no written response would be necessary.

15-1?. (Internal Use Oxly - BAA) LIAISON Received a call from

Kathy, DDO/British Desk, who said they were in receipt of a message

fron

pertaining to the message that came in this morning

for Richard Moose, Senate Foreign Relations Committee staff, from

Senator Dick Clark (D., Iowa) requesting confirmation of the receipt of

the message and the time. After talking to Moose, I called Kathy and told

her that Moose received the message at 2:00 p.m. and that there would

be no response back to the Senator. She will take care of sending out

the appropriate response.

8. (Unclassified - NDL) LIAISON Received a call from

Richard Dingman, Representative john B. Conlan's (R., Ariz. )

Administrative Assistant, who wanted to know the procedures

the Congressman should follow in requesting information on himself

under FOIA. I told him to write to George Cary and gave him the

address and said we would process it from there.

9. (Internal Use Only - GLC) LIAISON Richard Sprague, Chief

Counsel, House Select Committee on Assassinations, called to say that he

would have to again posipone the meeting we had scheduled for today at

10:30 a.17. We compared schedules and decided to meet at 10:30 a.m.

tomorrow. Sprague asked if I would have the letter on destruction of

documents. I told him that I planned to bring along the final draft for him

to look at. We then discussed setting up a necting with the Director,

Chairman 'Chomas Downing (D., Va.) and Representative Henry Gonzalez

(D., Texas). He suggested thai the meeting include the Ranking Minority

Member, Samuel L. Devine (K., Ohio), who he said is a great admires

of Mr. Bush. I told him I would chock the Director's calendar and get

back in touch with him.

21856

---

