# 104-10120-10376

## Page 1

104-10120-10376]

i :

cack

Pread are Only

Do Not Reproduca

SR/10-61-0066

3 February 1961

MESIORANDUY FOB: Chief, Central Cover Group

ATTENTION

:Ir. Thomas Strange

SUBJECT

: Basic Proposal to Cover Field Assessment

of Potential REDSKIN Agent Candidates

1.

A meeting was hold I February 1961, to discuss the

Leasability of conducting field assessment of potential REDSKIN

agent candidates by staff psychologists ofythe Asgessment and

Evaluation Staff, OTR, under suitablel

cover.

Conferees were Messeurs Thomas Strange and

of centra

Cover Group, John Gittinger of TSD, Dr°31

and Dr. John

Golder of the ABE Staff, OTR,

and Fielder Dudley of SR/10.

The

problen discussed in para 2 below was recognized and tentative

agreement reached on the basic proposal discussed in para 3

below.

2. Heretofore field assessments have been conducted by.

SR/10 case officers whose capabilities in the rather esoteric

science of psychological assessment are, at best, based funda

mentally on intuition and subject to variable degrees of objec-

tivity.

Furthernore these case officers reveal their Agency

connection on initial contact supported by credentials in allas.

Thus all agent candidates screened In the field become aware of -

Agency interest to exploit legal

travel to the USSA 10r intelligence

purposes.

These include a considerable percentage who are acreened

out during the initial Interview or subsequently as & result of

Headquarters assessment.

3. The Problem:

To screen out unsuitable REDSKIN agent candidaies

without revealing Agency interest and to reduce possibilities

of irrational reaction, 1.9., going to the press or writing

letters to the President when later approached by an Agency

representative proposing an intelligence mission.

---

## Page 2

Sa/10-61-0066 cont.

Basto Proposal to Cover Field Assessment.

of Potential REDSKIN Agent Candidates

SUBJECT:

1RN70S

Fadiground Use di

Do Not Reproduce

b.

To restrict revelation of SP Division safe apart-

monts, staff employeas and general tasks gernane to REDSKIN

operations only to those candidates most Ilkely to be

accepted. for recruitment.

To cut down on the necessity of processing Provistonal

Operational Approvals on all leads to be contacted for initial

on the Office of Security and the CI Staff by SR/10.

4. Basic Proposal:

To send staff psychologists of the AsE Staff, OIR,

REDSKIN agent candidates, based on leads furnished by 3R/10°:

spotter notrork. The staff. psychologists.ulll represent

themselves as emplorees or consultants ofl

Ta vell established proprtotary o1

ISD, conduering Intervrews on behalf of anonymous lout actual

cliente in the fields of education, industry, commerce and

government (both federal and state).. Other established

propriatary coyer can be provided if and when appropriate.

The proprietary organizations can provide full "backstopping"

throughout every normal working day. Appropriate documenta-.

ton 1s to be provided in true nane or alias, walchever is

appropriate in any particular case.

b. As a test run, twelve potential REDSKIN agent

candidates in the New England area have been selected for

initial contact and assessment by Dr. John Golder as soon

as this proposal has been concurred in and approved. Candi-

during the latter half of February.

Those agent candidates recommended as likoly prospects

by the staff psychologists will then be contacted by situ

cast officers. when Provisional Operattoral approvals have

been granted, who will ascertain willingness and availability

for travel in the Usse on intelligence missions. then

resporse is affirmative each candidate will be invited to

Mashington for full Headquarters assessment and

possible

recroltment.

---

## Page 3

mateund Use Orly

Do Not Reoroduce

SUBJECT:

0 1998

9R/10-62-0066 cont.

Basic Proposal to Cover Fleld Assessment

of Potential REDSKIN Agent Candidates

5. Earliest consideration of this proposal is requested

so that the time consuming screening and processing of suitable

REDSKIN agents can be accomplished in time for utilization during

tha 1961 travel season.

Any questions concerning this proposal should be directed

to Flolder Dudley, SR/10, extension 8297.

= - HOWARD OSBORS

Deputy Chief, SR Division

3

---

