# 104-10186-10340

## Page 1

104-10186-10340

RAMAN

SON

REBORIN

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

the sranemialina or

Perciate it mand 19

SECRET

NO FOREIGS DISSEM

COUNTRYCuba

SUBJECT RAUl GONZALEZ (allas 'Olex1')

REPORT NO.

DATE DISTR.

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

GE1-316/00627-65

10 February 1965

1

CS-311/00115-64

(page 7)

8 July 1964)

DATE. OF

1964

PLACE & Hashington, D. C.

DATE ACQ. January 1965

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INTORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ASE CEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE, A former Cuban IS officer who serred with the Cuban Intelligence

Service until April 1964-

Headquarters Commen'g

rhe following report is one of a series containing personality

Information provided

by

the source and includes supplemental

information from the records of this Agency.

It, is requested that the addressees sake no action on any of

the individuals mentioned in the porsonallty reports without

first checking with this Agency.

1.

Departamento

Gencral de Inteligencia (deneral Directorate of Intellegence-

DGI) .

He previously worked with the Union de Jovenes Comunistas

(UJC).

2. GONZALEZ,

tess sive teet seven to it as pounds and mess.

dark brown hair.

resides ai Calle so, No. 307, Vedado,

habana, Cuba; his telephone number is 33161.

Headquarters Comme.!

1. The records of his Agercy reveal no identifiable information

on Raul GOVZALEZ.

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

"Do Not Reproduce

YOCARD PROCESSED

5

4

5

3

SECRET

NO FOREIGN

DISSEM

STATE

101A

ARMAT

REP

CINCLAVT

(Noles Fiold distribution Indicatod by "#**)

i NAVY

CINCSO #

IGNS

SO RIM.

ATLON

REPORI

4/1V

VLL/ SA/EQB

NIL: SA/NOB

HILISALR

HE JADR

ib"1

CILLA

2CH/RiA

•IE

-4144441

RID AX

WILLWAVE

TOTALS WH/SA 8

(1%, NE 1 (2), C1

RID 1

CAse 1

IXvEX

1 OCR

tox teamt

TEBI 2

RMATION

REPORT

LN 2290;UFGA 19000

1(09 Dec. 64)

NO PROJECT (ANNIE 1)

C314/00005

LIAISONE

---

