104-10174-10056)

2p!

to

DISPATCH

Cadet of baathen, Veheae

i]

polities) erganisers. Very rescatly ont sf theese
where be eas in contest with the Ststion aed tha tus prinaipal agente
pelitigal ertion project. Is adhfitien to hio eenverssticas with thees indtyideda
be aloo trureled srowai the srva mad talked to « myeder of muritting Jadici@uale
prior te necting ogala with Katioa pareenes) aad the prizeipal agente, AZo
veealt of hiv eonversaticns ant af bie delving into the Jess] politieal scans,
be wae able le exes up with 2a execadinzly Lofernsd anonncneat of the leaal
galitiea] evens ae well as ceanwta resoumndations in myard te the exgenteetion
of tho palitioal estion feetions being suyparted by AUME, ples rowwmecdstions
8a te hew they shoul. procerd toward asating thaie iusediate pretlons, site
ineladed the melding of s cimber of divergent festiens inte » sesraive

nation oapsble af saited erties ageizat tbe Conmmists at the pelle, The ftetien
wus pleased with the results aleaet te the lettar a tele vecammodetions te
headquarters.

2, $e ks Readpisrtove’ Peeling ttat tdward O, TIGOIX, deverived fn
Payagragh & telew, ceald perforn a very usefnt Cede ainUar to that .
welch the ergsuluer sentlanni steve performed (ia If provided uita ¢

walteble cover stery, 7iCSKVH could visit istealos V (xe wo eateretent to
wey reegering fren a reetat vatsaatils seeldant), fureliane SANE! Aeage and
ether regiane) and netional politisal leaturs, Oa the heels of hig dlemestiess
with thea he should bo able to eons ep With a maeber ef prectisal sucreations
which eould be ef valus in inplasenting .ATSOL end other fatere pelitionl
action projects, Two advantages which am orgenimer ef ihis type offers te o
field etation are, firet, teat dole a epecislirt in the dotelle of presiicel
pelition-s treed asd complex Meld af exteraver—and sosend, thal he talbs to

follow pelitistans as a wot-offiatal preeticianer of that art and ic ustenibdted —
by any evert eomoetion with COTS,
a Jt La proposed, tharafere, Wat TICHAY be cunt to your Stetken «2

THX fer 30 days te econzult with Steiica pereanne) asd te talk te VAHA, SUNCHRZ,
amd ethers. We should like ta heve your eumenta ot this prepesal as wall a9
whatever ideas you nay have oh bat cuver stayy TICIZORY could ese Gariag Bia
talks with tha politics! leadare lavelved. [4 is the bellaf ef Mesdgeasters’
that, emso the initial ecntests ate ectablistheal, pavhaps through direst intra
deetiona by the Stetica, a natural affinity of jaterest botwoos TIRADE wed *
the Cchana idl) serve to ceotahliea reppert quictly. Althsugh the THX af

TICHEUGY would be ef value shisfiy An coumsction with AD ATAOL, ve sexld prefer
‘that bo bo ocat Luvediately, befere fiz] project oppreval. foyom

- & TiOuAFs wos bare in ceever, Calarmde, 1920. BA, alveraits af Denver,
LAN) Cradeate Teter a! seneuise, arvard Gaivaraity, 294-1985) U3 Kapant
Law Stool, 1940; gredeate atawy, Caiversided Haaleaal ca Fortes, 1955. 88 do
B proatieing ettaraey and hae bad a rreal dee’ of political amerimsn, f9
wameseosiwlly fer < higa offices an Lenemeetio tiemet $m Calivarmds ba IF1Sy)
Ho 9 @ Pal Beta Raypas uae proal. ef tha Garverd Lew Beseol Mowe Rees -
yarlisbed 9 agaber of erilales oo lav ad leer Oe Le ee smurleas —
Maaieen perents, wha speaxs a:tiw HeXige: Ypealea sad tus s typleal adios
eqpesrsace} bs seald pos fer a Maxioan Ke bas on several soastlens visited Be ~

Ye



| masse pto

RS

SEGRE]

a

OISPATOH

CONTINUATION OF

