104-10216-10070

cust
Mt +
ExT +
DATE:

tk : reran comes DP

~N cont
b MESSAGE FORM Ad acinar atiaitaa
J. HOUGHAN/db
WH/C/RR/OA Orwex
71846 Sno inoex
15 June 1965 XiFuemcs rie no. 2011-41531

7 RYBAT/SECRET

ac

FRI

Frew Di eS

: |

ha pefWwHfLe me ve. Fue ef TID COPY wm, en }
:

4

i

“IMWAVE SANTO DOMINGO

REP TyPIc seettt

. IN ANY MANNER, IS WELL KNOWN TO ODENVY, FYI: SUBJ IS CONSIDERED .

- KUBARK COS IN HAITI TO DUVALIER. : innit it

‘OR

PRI’ WAVE INFO SGOM CITE DIR

REF: WAVE 2974 CIN 90118)*
1. ISADORE IRVING DAVIDSON (201-41581) BORN 19 JAN 1921 PITTSBURGH, _ }
“PA. VOLUMINOUS HQS TRACES SUBJ. IS REGISTERED WITH JUSTICE DEPT “AS '
AGENT FOR RAITI, ECUADOR, NICARAGUA AND ISRAEL. MBR NATL PRESS CLUB i
ENJOYS CLOSE RELATIONSHIP wrrif

AND WELL KNOWN WASHINGTON CIRCE!
DREW PEARSON AND OTHER NEWSMEN. DESCRIBED AS AGGRESSIVE INTERNATIONAL

BUSINESSMAN WHO WOULD PROBABLY PARTICIPATE IN ANY BUSINESS PROPOSITION

FOR A COMMISSION, - HOWEVER, ALWAYS PROTECTS HIMSELF WHEN DEALING WITH

REPRESENTATIVES OF bite COUNTRIES BY REPORTING ANY PROPOSED TRANSACTION!
TO A US GOVT AGENCY OR OFFICIAL, APPROACHED KUBARK IN 1955 TO OBTAIN i
FINANCIAL BACKING FOR TRAVEL AGENCY WHICH WOULD PUBLICIZE YUGOSLAVIA E
TOURIST ATTRACTIONS TO AMERICANS, ‘IN EXCHANGE SUBJ WOULD PASS ON TO

KUBARK ANY INFO HE MIGHT BE ABLE TO OBTAIN THROUGH SAID AGENCY.

“MEETINGS WERE HELD WITH SUBJ ON 30 SEPT AND 3, 5, 10 AND 13 OCT 1955
SUBJ WAS ADVISED KUBARK WOULD NOT BACK HIM FINANCIALLY OR SUPPORT HIM

FAST BUCK ARTIST AND SECURITY RISK, BELIEVED TO BE PERSON WHO BLEW

(CONTINUED)
coonpiwatine orricens

ween gg [_ mae wat
mewn 5g (_mmunrences | [Er]

" REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITED.

;



MESSAGE FORM D1 pissor fy krtuite 10 sRanc:
& TOTAL copies: Renenocanolacs coos Ian
Qinoex RYBAT/SECRET |
Gnomon.

Orne wes pie no.

‘| Row: DIRECTOR seer PAGE 20F 2 ~ . 3

WFO: VA. FE Ty RID COPY >

INFO CITE O1R, / GY 72.

COPY OF SUBJS 201 FILE ARRIVING WAVE WITH Od,
3._ HQS DISSEMING PARA 1 REF AS TDCSDB WITH APPROPRIATE HQS COMMENT

i
{
{

* ON DAVIDSON,
END OF MESSAGE

WH/C/Comment: Requested traces Irving Davidson,

W, Cini Cin draft)

- C/WH/C/uO
DO/WH/C/RR in firaft)

oe fet aratey

ESMOND FITZGERALD Z : od L. HART

-C/WHD “ coonsmaring orricens  DCWHD/C
7 _ He Sort AUTHENTICATING
pian ition od RYBAT/SECRET _l=* baddenerienseiee

2 BeecanueTinN RY OTHRE TMAM THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITED. hnetafietc

