# 104-10528-10377

## Page 1

104-10528-10377

LAGE 747 MESSAGE

S2CRET

і!!!!,

401910

/V

61010

TATOPAL LEMANVESi UNFUN

H8F.d-R0r6 11786

ДіНі

773257

CATIVELY EASY AND CHEAP. AUDIO INSTALLATION IN APT:3 OF

112 APPEARS FEASIBLE. LIKAYAK 2 REPORTS: CHINESE OF REF A

ARE LIVING: IN THIS APT SUBJ REF A REPORTS OTHER CHINESE CONOREGATE

IN THEST APT, THAT IT APPEARS TO BE USED AS OFFICE AS VELL AS

DONICALS, AND THAT VISITORS ALUAYS GO TO THIS API.

CAL TECHNICAL SURVEYS INDICATE ACCESS TO AUR SPACE ODER

TAMeST APT 1J POSSIBLE AND THAT DIKES COULD DE PLACED BEIRU AIR

WUSATS' IN FLOOR OF TARGET APIA CELIEVE AUDIO RECEPTION SHOULD

Es GOOD. 3. PROBLEN IS LP GIVEN GROUN'S CHILEREN AND LINE-TW

MOIDE DO NOT PLAN USETHIS ART AS LE AS LONG AS ME AND FAMILY IN IT.

CALL ASK HIM MOVE OUT EFFESTIVE, LA DEC AND NAVE VICTOR WOLOSOLDA

d52%,

UNDERGALIAS AND DESE BOYSENA

WELL OFFER PA%

Dhoss: 300 DOLLARs

A MONTH FOR UP TO TWO MONTHS FOR INCONVENZENCE, INENT ON

PRESENT APE IS 200 JOLLANG MONTHLY ON MONTN DY MOUTH LEAST

AL LARAYAN D REPORTS ANAL ACTINO MINISTER OF GODERNAGION

TOLD IN DIE ONGOS ROV DIRT CHICOAS WILL NOT DE ALLONED TO MENAIN

Eno one saar

Copy: No

---

## Page 2

AGNIFICO MESSAOS

•iN-

A DE AUDIO INGTALLATION CAN DE MADE SOOU FORGET DATE IS I

DEL MOLLEVE ONE MONTH'S TANE VORTN EFORE, PAPTICULARLY CONOIOEAIMO

LOG. COST AND APPARENT CASS OSINGIALLAÑSON, OTI:S POSOIDRLSTIIO FOR

AUDID ISTALLATIONS IN

→_ DO NOS APPEAN FRAGIOLE.

P"LE MAUS, CHINESE SPENGOHON CÃGIODY COSIG SUOLLO NOS GANT

LiVE MONITONING.

C/S COMENTE CORANEO FORSOA

---

