# 104-10006-10262

## Page 1

110410006-10262

Does in OSWALD the SECRET

FROR: Ingoquastore name' O

BADGE NO.

AW. BRASKO

BRANCH

ROOM

3R/c1

5D000/

TO

TUBE

ROOM

DATE

BH 70 5T

EXTENS I 0I

DATE

6508

INITIALS

• NAME CHECK AND CONSOLIDATION REQUEST

TRID CONTROL NO.

18 DEC 64

CHECKING INSTRUCTIONS

RID/INDEX

DT-5

REQUESTER

RID/FILES

DT - 6

KROUERIEN

RID/ANALYSIS

GT • 7

RID/MIS

GT - 6

RID/INDEX

SURNAME

HOLODOI

SPELLING VARIARLONS

AKA. ALIASES

Enu a

Fi

SUBJECT TO BE CHECKED

GIVEN

Anatoly

THER APENTIEVING DADA Occupation, 8ox, CP memborship,

student

ITIZENSHI

1, 5S

RESULTS OF RID/INDEX CHECK

COMMENTS

PRESIDES SAR (MInSK)

SEX

M

DATE OF BIRTI

unda 1940

PLACE Of BIRT'S MR

NO PERTINENT IDENTIFIABLE INFORMATION

CARD REFERENCES ATTACHED

INSTRUCTIONS FOR REQUESTERS

IN ALL CASES

Use gummed label; type or print all

entries.

Upon receipt of index card reproductions

draw a green diagonal line across the

items you do not want.

3 Edit (use green) the reproduced index

caris to indicate:

(a)

cards to be destroyed (mark with

green D

and note reason for destruction)

Examples: document destroyed; duplicate

or less informative than retained in-

formation; information of no CS value.

(b)

corrections and additions, inclu-

ding infinity symbol oo when card in-

cludes all facts contained in the

document.

201 CONSOLIDATION

Return this form with the card repro-

ductions, also return pertinent documents,

aperture cards and the dossier if a 201 on

the subject exists.

2. For each document to be included in the

(a) [ Consolidate into

201-

(b) [ Open 201 file on subject.

TRESTRICTION (IS any)

OTHER INTERESTED DESKS OR STATIONS

ASS TENES™

YES

I NO

Note 1. Records of COI, SSU, OSS and CIG

are in RID/ARD, and those that meet

indexing criteria in CSHB 70-1-1 are

carded in the CS Main Index.

If you

believe there could be additional in-

formation of value in these records!

you must request an Archives Index

search.

TRID

•DESK

Note 2.

Information concerning foreigr

public personalities (except mili-

tary) may be available in BR/OCR

x7997.

DATE

SIGNATURE OF RECORDS OFFICER

---

## Page 2

13-00000

en OSwAcD trace lesults

KHOLODOV, (SPC)

Gaitr:9-1619

(R50л 44921)

Thus H1

KHOLODOY (It. Coli)

200-4-150-Y10

(LUCOM)

TSY 0:0497)

(Fage # A"36

KHOLODOY, (Ma.jor)

74-6-33-3-90

говА-26572

19APF-

THIS:

CARD:

FILED IN

thaes.

KHOIODOV, (Capt)

74-7-2000.823-1

(MPU-977.)

(TS 148960)

OIO S1gE Stores KRAKOW

THIS

CARD

FILED IN

MAIIN

INDEX

KHOIODOY, Eau

200 23-m8lg209

(ST-33-Gору/10)

(Po 218)

Attended moetinge of knoun Commnist Tront Organt

zations.

THISHCUND FILED

19400 G2

IN MAIN

AAAEX

EБRO

---

