104-10186-10289

oe CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY ~

tera Tue
16 UAC. Bera TOS and 794, the Greasminion oF rersiation of which tn any manner to an unauthorised perma le prohibited by lew.

‘This material coatains Uaformation adecting the National Defense of the Calted etates wttala the meaning of the

SECRET
Ne EIGN DISS: k
COUNTRY Cuba REPORT NO, CSCI-316/00270-64
SUuECT’ Fernando Pascual PEREZ OATE DISTR. =—-20 July 1964
7 ie : NO. PAGES ok
- RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only “7*NS 7
Gare oF 1964 Do Not Reproduce
PLACE & “Washington, D.Cs
DATE ACQ. July 1964 FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS 1S UNEVALUATED INPOPMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DETINITIVE APPRAISAL OF CONTENT (5 TTNTATIVE,

SOURCE: A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban
Intelligence Service until April 1964,

Headquarters Comments:

1. The following report is one of a series containing
personality information provided by the source and
includes supplemental information from the records
of this Agency.

2. It ig requested that the addressees take no action
on any of the individuals mentioned in the
personality reports without first checking with

this Agency.

Fernando Pascual PEREZ, pseudonym "Alejandro," is an officer
: in the Direccion General de Inteligencia (DGI - General
i Directorate of Intelligence) in Cuba. His address is
Calle General Lee, Number 88) Santo Suarez, Habana; his
telephone number is 40-2394. iain

Headquarters Comment.

1. The records of this Agency reveal no identifiable
information on PEREZ.

HE ee

SECRET | Sicceceoe oe

NO FOREIGN DISSEM
STATE To, Tasuy Trav Taw [ssa TACKXX_Toce TFBI_ 2

meee

REP CINCLANT. CINCSO # I&NS.

(Note: Feld distribution Indicated by‘)

NO PROJECT
(AMMUG= 1)
SA, {_lesci-316/00270-
WU WAVE Teoorownatiwe! py sa
rore~# wiysa 7 (1), WE L (2), Cl 4, RIO 1 wiatton gy pt pe y

201-None

