# 104-10331-10370

## Page 1

1104-10331-10370

+04410331-10370

CONFID

ENTIAL

06 January 1998

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

TO:

Barry Harrelson

OIM/HRG

FROM:

C)

OIG/ IMO

SUBJECT: (AIUO) Inadvertent Destruction of Records

REF:

(U) Telecon dated 06 January 1998

1. (U) Per your request, attached is a memorandum

written to the Office of the Inspector Generals (OIG) .

Deputy and Associate Deputy IG for Investigations.

The

attached memorandum was also reviewed by OIG/Counsel. It

explains in some detail the events we discussed in

referenced telephone conversation.

2 .

(AIUO) It is understood by me, the undersigned,

that no further action from the Inspector Generals office is

required, and that this matter may be considered closed.

The Office of Information Management/Historical Review Group

(OIM/HRG) will notify the Assassination Review Board (ARB)

• and file a copy of this memorandum in HRG files to refer to

when writing the compliance letter to the ARB.

(AIUO) It is

also understood that original

documents are not required when material is requested for or ...

being added to the

sequestered collection, and that copies

of the material which were inadvertently destroyed were

previously provided to the HSAC and ARB (or special task

force) before their destruction in 1995.

4 .

(AIUO) With the assistance of HRG, the OIG/IMO has

been able to reconstruct the file and will maintain it as a

permanent record, also adding a copy of the attached to that

file.

CL BY (0680987

CL REASON: 1!5 (c)

DECL ON: X-1

DRV fm COV 1-82

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 2

13-00000

CON

FIDENTIAL

SUBJECT: (AIUO)

Inadvertent Destruction of Records

(AlUO) Your assistance in this matter is greatly

appreciated. If you have any. further questions regarding

this matter, please call me on secure X77081. Thank you.

cc:

D/IG/INV w/o att

AD/IG/INV w/o att

IG/Counsel w/o att

OIG/ IMO w/att

DCI/IMO w/o att

CON

FID

ENTIAL

---

## Page 3

13-00000

CONFIDENTIAL

26 November 1997

TO:

FROM:

SUBJECT:

Rick Cinquegrana, D/ IG/ INV.

AD/IG/INV

(C) , OIG/ IMO

(AIUO)

Possible Illegal Destruction of Records

1.

AIUO The OIG/IMO received a request trom the

AD/IG/INV to search for records needed to verify certain

nominees.

During the course of this search, the IMo

discovered what appeared to be the inadvertent destruction

of permanent OIG records.

2. (AIUO) The records, cases from 1977,

were retired

in 1980.

See exhibit A for a copy of the original records

retirement request.

3. (C) When form 140 (exhibit A) was approved by the

Agency Archives and Records Center (AARC) and returned with

a job number (80-01770R), the records were prepared in

folders, placed in boxes, and a shelflist was created (see

exhibit B for shelflist).

4. (AIUO) Please take notice of the highlighted

portion of the shelflist that claims the records disposition

as 'permanent'.

This alona with the use of the terminology

'case no.', led me to believe

these were permanent records.

5: (AIUO) Exhibit C is a completed request (form

141b) from AARC for authority to destroy these records.

of the records except those listed on a handwritten note

(exhibit D) attached to form 14lb were destroyed.

All

6.

(AIUO)

At this point, I referred to the original

form 140 (exhibit A) to determine what Records Control

Schedule

(RCS) and Item Number was used to retire these

records in 1980. I ordered a copy of the old. RCS 07-76 and

checked the disposition of item number '3b' (see highlighted

section of exhibit E) .

The disposition does allow for the

lawful destruction of these temporary records.

CL BY 0680987

CL REASON: 11.5 (c)

DECL ON: X-1

DRV fm COV 1-82

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 4

13-00000

il,

CONFIDENTIAL

SUBJECT: (AIUO) Possible Illegal Destruction of Records

7.

(AIUO) I then noticed that the destruction

authorization form 141b (exhibit C) listed the RCS as 10-84

and the Item Number as 29B.

Referring to the newer version

of the RCS I found that this schedule and item number also

allow for the lawful destruction of these temporary records.

Please see the highlighted text of exhibit F.

8.

(AIUO) At this juncture, I reviewed the material

and noticed a note on exhibit D that stated, "IG 37/77

Lonnquist (Kennedy Assassination) destroyed on 5/1/95 by

s.K.".

9.

(AIUO) Please see the attached JFK Assassination

Act (exhibit G), para (a) (1) thru (6). In short, this law

was enacted in

1992 and these records were destroyed in

1995. The fact the records were scheduled as temporary and

then destroyed according to Agency regulations does not

override Public Law 102-526, the JFK Assassination Act.

10. (AIUO) I found three entries in Textware on

Lonnguist. Two pertain to nothing of interest in this case;

however the third entry states,

"allegations regarding the

Lee Harvey Oswald file"

(see the highlighted text of exhibit

H) .

11.

(AIUO.) In May 1997, I told the JFK Assassination

Review Board (ARB), in an informal hearing, that OIG had no

knowledge or record of any JFK records under OIG's perview

being destroyed.

This was during discussions at the table,

and not one of the listed questions for the OIG/IMO to

answer .

12

(ALUO) My plan is to contact the DCI/IMO, enlist

his assistance in notifying the National Archives and

Records Administration (NARA) and the ARB that records

pertaining to the JFK Assassination were inadvertently

destroyed and explain in detail the events surrounding the

discovery and what steps have been taken to prevent this

from happening again.

13. (AIUO) I personally doubt that there was anything

of value to the ARB in the Lonnquist case file, but because

LHO is referenced it is considered a JFK ARB file, and by

law I have to report its destruction to NARA and the ARB.

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 5

13-00000

i"s,

CONFIDENTIAL

SUBJECT:

(AIUO

Possible Illegal Destruction of Records

(AIUO)

Any adjudicative action against me or the

Agency will be the decision of the ARB.

Distribution:

Orig - addressees

1 Cy - IMO File

• CONFID

ENTIAL

---

## Page 6

13-00000

Exhibit A

---

## Page 7

13-00000

-KMO

UNCLASSIFIED

CONFIDENTIAL

SECRET

RECORDS RETIREMENT REQUEST

Submit

original and & copies

to Records

Two copies will be

turned

the

originating office.

Addi Conal copies may ee prepared es

indicated by your RAO.

JOB NO. ASSIGNED BY RECORDS' CENTER

101770R*!

Trans-

Storage Complete Form 490

to Above Job Number.

and

TO:

For

fe

Refer

DATE

CHIEF, AGENCY

RECORDS CENTER

PART I (TO BE COMPLETED BY THE RECORDS CUSTODIAN)

FROM: (Office) DIV/BRANCH/SECTION

DCI/ OLG

ROOGE19 HOSILDING

20 November 1990

EXTENSIC

5733

APPLICATION IS MADE FOR RETIREMENT OF THE RECORDS DESCRIBED BELOW

DESCRIPTION OF FILE

SERIES (Use description

in Records Control Schedule and inclusive dates.)

LIST

RECOrDS. USE

FORM NO.

140A. RECORDS

SHELF LIST (Check appropriate box below.)

IF NECESSARY TO

Individual Case Files- Consists of documents accumulated in investigating

complaints, suggestions, or problems of individuals which are brought to the

attention of the IG. Filed numerically by case number. Potential cases filed

alphabetically.

Case No. 1/77 thru 167/77

(1 Jan77 thru 31 Jen77)

Case No. 81/76

and GG 69/78

• SHELF LIST ATTACHED

SCHEDULE NO.

07-76

L SHELF LIST. INCLUDED IN TRANSFER

I TEMIS) NO.

CLASSIFICATION/ CODEWORD OF RECORDS

3 $

Through SECRET

PART I1 (TO BE COMPLETED BY THE RECORDS MANAGEMENT OFFICER)

CITRICTIONS ON USE OF RECOROS (If nO restrictions write "None")

IG ONLY

DATE

20 November 1980

PART 11I A (TO BE COMPLETED BY RECORDS CENTER)

INSTRUCTION: Use Job and Box Numbers for reference

until records are processed into archival arrangement.

DISPOSITION OF THE RECORDS DESCRIBED HEREON HAS BEEN MADE AS FOLLOWS:

AUTHORIZATION:

WHOLE JOB DISPOSITION

PARTIAL JOB DISPOSITION

DESTROYED

DESTROYED-BOX NOS.

TRANSFERRED-BOX NOS.

TRANSFERRED TO:

TO :

SEE ATTACHMENT (S)

SEE REMARKS ON BÄCK

DATE

DISPOSITION

JOe NO.

SIGNATURE CHIFF: DISPOSITION, AGENCY RECORDS CENTER

PART III B (TO BE COMPLETED BY ARCHIVES)

RUCTION:

Refer to records by subject and date after records have been processed into archival arrandement.

PROCESSED INTO ARCHIVAL ARRANGEMENT

SIGNATURE (Chief, Agency Archives)

140 455-P0N51O0S

UDIt REU COYRS

SECRET

(13-46)

CONFIDENTIAL

UNCLASSIFIED

E.2, IMPDET CL. Y:

---

## Page 8

13-00000

tai

YEAR

UNCLASSIFIED

CONFIDENTIAL

SECRET

PART I1I C (TO BE COMPLETED BY THE RECORDS CENTER) (CONTINUED)

REFERENCE

ACTIVITY

JAN

FEB

MAR

APR

MAY

JUN

JUL

AUG

SEP

OCT

NOV

DEC

TOTAL

JOB NO. IG

80-01770R

OFFICE 80-01770R

IG

SCHEDULE NO. (Or LISt)

REMARKS

tE ONLY

DIVISION

ROW

STORAGE LOCATION

SPACE

DISPOSAL

ACTIVITY

BRANCH

AUTHORITY FOR DISPOSAL

PAGE

CUBIC FEET

6

NO. OF CONTAINERS

6

SECRET

RECEIPT PROCESSING

TYPE OF CONTAINERS

RC

CONFIDENTIAL

DATE RECEIVED

13 Jan 1981

UNCLASSIFIED

RECEIVED BY

HERE

SECTION

DISPOSAL DATE

I TEM

776

3B

---

## Page 9

13-00000

Exhibit B

---

## Page 10

13-00000

REPORT

NO. R20A0601 ARCHIVES RECORDS CENTER SHELF LIST

JOB

NO.

BOX

0001

0002

0003

0004

0005

0006

RCS

07-76

OPI

07

DIV

DCI

BRANCH

DIG

FLO

001

001

001

001

I TEM

0038

003B

0038

0038

RES

FILE NO.

MED

001

001

0O3B

0038

UNCL: FIED

SECTION

CLASS

U

CLASS -BY

US

0

FOLDER TITLE

CASE NO. 1/77-23-35/77

CASE

NO.

36/77-41/77: 43-55/77 VOL. I-VOL. 1II PART 3

CASE NO. 55/77 VOL.

III PART 4-VOL.

111 PT.

7 THRU 84/77

CASE NO. 85/77 THRU 121/77 AND CASE NO. 59/78

(9 ENVELOPES)

CASE NO.

122/77: 123/77: 126/77 THRU 160/77.

"CASE NO: 16Ï777 THRÜ 167/77, POTENTIAL CASES-A-Z

UNCLASSIFIED

AS OF 810812

ST DTE

010177

010177

010177

010177

END DTE FS

311277

311277

0

311277

311277 0

010177

311277

010177

311277

PAGE NO. 0001

cord Center will once

buch critine sox... cornot peris by speefie cariti.

25 Bu: Ps note SoX 5 does not contain. 1a6/17 thre 160117 contentively.

Falling must be filed checher:

141/77

148/17

149/17

151/17

153/11

157/71

158/17

3, 45

50-171082

---

## Page 11

13-00000

Exhibit C

---

## Page 12

13-00000

a to - vas

'RETURN ÓRIGINAL AND I COPY TO AARC

REQUEST FOR AUTHORIZATION

TO DESTROY RECORDS IN AARC

TO : Archives and Records Center: ISAS/ DDA

1. DISPOSITION JOB NO. (Assigned by AARC)

93-1-26

FROM:

Archives and Records

THRU: Component Records Management Officer

Center, ISAS/DDA

2. DATE PREPARED

1-28-91

THE RECORDS IDENTIFIED BELOW ARE SCHEDULED FOR IMMEDIATE DESTRUCTION.

AUTHORIZATION IS REQUESTED TO DESTROY THE

RECORDS AS SCHEDULED.

IF AUTHORIZATION IS DENIED, REVISED DISPOSITION INSTRUCTIONS MUST BE PROVIDED TO RECORDS AD

MINISTRATION BRANCH, ISAS.

IDENTIFICATION OF RECORDS

A. SCHEDULE NO. S. I TEM NUMBERS

3. OFFICE

DCI OIG

OPI

#

10-84

29B

6. ACCESSION JOB NOS.

7. BOX NUMBERS

Boxes

180-1770R

1-6.

16 CU. F+

&. REMARKS

Job Due for Destruction 1 Feb 1991

_ CONTINUED ON SEPARATE PAGE

AUTHORIZATION TO DESTROY RECORDS

L'

9. TYPED NAME AND SIGNATURE OF CUSTODIAN OF RECORDS

EXTENSION

DATE

RETAIN ALL

RETAIN PARTIAL

11.2

10: TYPED NAME AND SIGNATURE OF COMPONENT RECORDS MANAGEMENT

15565

12/4/92

EXTENSION

DATE

OFFICER.

QUESTIONABLE

DESTROY ALL

75565

112/4/92

L! RMO ATTACH COPY OF FORM 140, RECORDS RETIREMENT REQUEST.

IND PROVIDE JUSTIFICATION FOR CONTINUED RETENTION O

RECOROS UNDER SECTION É ABOVE.

ALSO PROVIDE PROPOSED NEW DISPOSITION INSTRUCTIONS.

FORWARD TO

RAB THRU DIREC

TORATE RMO.

LE RMO ATTACH COPY OF FORM 140A, SHELF LIST. ANNOTATED TO SHOW WHICH RECOROS ARE TO BE RETAINED.

NOT AVAILABLE PROVIDE DETAILED DESCRIPTION, BY BOX AND FOLDER NUMBER, OF THE RECOROS TO BE RETAINED.

ALECOROS

NOT INDICATED FOR RETENTION ARE AUTHORIZED FOR IMMEDIATE DESTRUCTION.

2 AMO PREPARE FORM 141C, REQUEST FOR AUTHORIZATION TO RETAIN OR DESTROY QUESTIONABLE RECOROS, FOR RECORDS THAT

MAY BE SUBJECT TO ACTUAL OR IMPENDING LEGAL OR INVESTIGATIVE REQUIREMENTS.

FORWARD WITH THIS FORM TO RAB

THROUGH DIRECTORATE RMO.

FOR AARC USE ONLY

DESTROYED

PARTIAL JOB (Box Nos.

PARTIAL JOB (Box Nos.)

TRANSFERRED

то:

fER 14:B

COMPLETE JOB

COMPLETE JOE

REMARKS

AN BINES REMAN AT REPERAS CENTER

CHIEF. BISPOSITION SECTION

1/3/73

FORM 141b

9-77

---

## Page 13

13-00000

Exhibit D

---

## Page 14

13-00000

16 Let.92

Kathy

too. + 80-017202 has been

pereil for distruction of IO year

old + older info. The following

cases have been removed o should

he nited on the retsiement listing as

having beeapulled from the jis - held

in 0IG until they are semoved from

the Oge Retention list?

£G.167/77

BOX6E

1650/77

Solitsyn

It Nott

Ca-ofile

Jo Not Desppy se

16 6/77 Desting

AG 37/77-3195 oringuisee

If you have to any quest.

---

## Page 15

13-00000

Exhibit E

---

## Page 16

13-00000

li'

RECORDS CONTROL SCHEDULE

OFFICE, DIVISION. BRANCH

TYPE CONUICe OFe Inspector General

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

AND I SCHEDULE.

NEW

1

2

3

1

a..

b.

2

3

IDENTIFICATION

(TITLE, DESCRIPTIÓN. ARRONGEMENT. IOD INCLUSIVE DATES)

SUBJECT FILE

Program Subyects

Record copies of substantive correspondence,

reports, memoranda and other papers reflecting

policy, procedures and decisions pertaining to

the functions assigned to the Inspector General.

Filed by subject.

mater.el

subjects

Transitory, and administrative material.

(NonRecord)

SURVEY REPORTS

ORM 139:050180

PREVIOUS

Record copies of reports and related data

of inspectiong conducted by the Staff and

recommendations for improvements on proper

assignment of functions and missions, methods

and procedures of performance by components, or

other areas where surveys are deemed necessary.

Filed by Agency component. Discontinued in

June 1973 and resumed in October 1975.

EMPLOYEE GRIEVANCE FOLDERS AND INDEX

Record copies of data from employees coming

to the IG with grievance regarding nature of

grievance, circumstance that caused grievance

and how settled. Used to investigate grievance

to its conclusion.

Also used to refer or provide

Information in response to or by direction of a

court order, or where there is an indication of

a violation or potential violation of law

whether civil, criminal, or regulatory in nature,

to the appropriate agency charged with the

SLASSADQUTTON

OLD SCHEDULE NOISY.

12.03-75(0IG portion)

DATE(SI

OLD SCHEDULEISD

16 ARIIA 1975

CONCURRENCE

VOLUME

(cu.

FT.)

REVISED SCHEDULE NO.

07-76

DATE OF CONCURRENCE

DISPOSITION INSTRUCTIONS

a.

Permanent. Cut off annually; hold

for one year and then transfer to the

Agency Records Center records no longer

needed for current reference.

b. Temporary. Destroy when one year

old.

Permanent. Hold one year then transfer

to the Agency Records Center in annual

blocks.

CL BY 0371104

DECI, OADR

WARNING NOTICE

INTELLIGENCE SOURCES

OR METHODS INVOLVED

This document is classified Secret in

the aggregate.

1A18

---

## Page 17

13-00000

MEM

NO.

CLASSIFICATION

FILES IDENTIFICATION

BECKET

responsibility of investigation or prosecuting

such violation or charged with enforcing or

implementating a statute or law, regulation or

order issued pursuant thereto. Storage: paper.

Retrievable: By case number.

a.

Record copy of closed cases involving

litigation or those establishing precedence of

policy.

b. l Record, contesto close rout

ith

no substant verretentior

kvalue!

VOLUME

DISPOSITION

INSTRUCTIONS

a. Permanent. Transfer closed case

file to the Agency Records Center.

Wb. Temporary: Transter inactive: A

cases to the Agency eggles enter

for 10 years and return

RETON review.

Any cases selected for

the petention he pe orgates

caredule, Destroy those ho longer

ed.

c.

Index - Record Copy.

d.

Log - Record copy for assigning file

C. Permanent. Destroy index cards

when destroying temporary closed case

files. Transfer remaining index to

Agency Records Center when function

is discontinued.

Permanent. Transfer to Agency Records

Center when function is discontinued.

-

FORM 139a P*101005

LOITIONS

(Published in the Federal Register, Noti-

fication of Systems of Records, Privacy Act of

1974. The Federal Register must be amended

if this system is changed or discontinued.)

RECORDS CONTROL SCHEDULE

CONTINIATION SHFFT

[SECRETION

---

## Page 18

13-00000

AND i SCH NOUSE.

5

NE*

TEA

NO.

4

6

5

7

6

a.

b.

c.

d.

e.

•M 139a 111010g

1 :.

FILES IDENTIFICATION

T CLASSIFICATION

.SECRET

SPECIAL, STUDIES

Record copies of reports and evaluation

following investigations and studies of various

Agency programs as Career Service, CT Program,

etc. Filed by subject.

WORKING FILES

Duplicates and working drafts of surveys

and material related to investigation or survey,

Each staff member maintains own files. (Non-

Record)

CLASSIFTED INFORMATION ACCOUNTING AND CONTROL

RECORDS

Top Secret Log (Form 312)

VOLUME

DISPOSITION INSTRUCTIONS

Permanent. Transfer to the Agency

Records Center at end of each year

or when no longer needed.

Temporary. Destroy 6 months after

survey completed.

Log maintained chronologically on Secret

and below documents (Form 238)

Log used for recording receipt and disposi-

tion of official personnel files referred to

staff for review.

Document Receipts.

Retain signed copies

of material transmitted outside the office.

(Form 615)

Courier Receipts. Office copy of receipts

signed by courier when material picked up for

delivery. (Form 240).

(OL is the Office of

Record.) (Non-Record)

a. Temporary. Destroy 5 years

after documents downgraded, trans-

ferred out of control point or

destroyed. (GRS 18-6a)

b. Temporary. Destroy after two

years. " (GRS" 18-5)

C. Temporary. Destroy quarterly

after folders returned to sender.

d. Temporary. Destroy after 2 years.

(GRS 18-3)

e. Temporary. Destroy when 3

months old.

RECORDS CONTROL SCHEDULE

CONTINUATION SHEET

"SECRETION

---

## Page 19

13-00000

AND I SAM MOUSE.

NEM

NO.

8

a.

b.

10

8

FORM /39a PREvious

FILES IDENTIFICATION

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

ADMINISTRATIVE HOUSEKEEPING FILES

Duplicates and non-record copies of forms,

correspondence and memoranda reflecting admini-

strative support functions within the Office of

the IG. File used for administrative purposes

and internal housekeeping functions. The Admin

Office of the DCI is primarily responsible for

administrative support to the IG Office. Filed

by Subject., (Non-Record)

Personnel soft files. Duplicate copies of

records held by. the Admin Office of the DCI and

the Official File in OP. Used for internal

administrative personnel management of staff

members. (This soft file will be screened and

incorporated, as appropriate, into the OP

Official file or the DCI/Admin Office soft

personnel file, either upon reassignment of the

individual subject of the file or separation

from the Agency. Disposition of each of those

files shall be in accordance with the approved

Records Control Schedule of those offices.)

(DCI/Admin Office is responsible for DCI area

personnel soft files as published in the Federal

Register.)

IG CORRESPONDENCE FILE

Record copies of outgoing correspondence

prepared by the IG covering decisions and

matters that are not completely duplicated in

the permanent Subject Files.

RECORDS CONTROL SCHEDULE

[SECRET

CLASSIFICATION

VOLUME

DISPOSITION INSTRUCTIONS

a. Temporary. Review file at end of

each year and destroy material having

no current value.

b. Temporary.

Destroy records that

are duplicated in both the OP Official

file and the DCI/Admin Office soft

into atron ter he ediate apertinent

remaining information to the DCI/Admin

Permanent. Transfer to the Agency

Reoords Center at the end of the

current IG's tour of duty.

1418

---

## Page 20

13-00000

11

9

NEW

10

NEW

11

•M 139a 20104

FILES IDENTIFICATION

SECRET

REGULATIONS FILES

Duplicate copies of all Agency Regulations

and Notices used for reference.

(Regulations

Control Branch is the Office of Record.)

Record)

INSPECTOR GENERAL RESEARCH RECORDS AND INDEX

Record copies on Agency personnel and

other individuals whose names appear in documents

assembled primarily from other Agency records

systems by the IG in relation to an Executive

commission and legislative comnittee reviews

of Agency activities conducted between 1972

and 1976 and CIA documents that are pertinent

thereto. Used by Agency officials for reference

use in connection with Executive and Legislative

reviews of Agency activities. Storage: paper.

Retrievability: Name or subject. (Published

in the Federal Register, Notification of Systems

of Records, Privacy Act of 1974. The Federal

Register must be amended if this system changed

or discontinued.)

FOI RECORD COPIES - SANITIZED VERSION AND

JUSTIFICATION (S)

Record copies of the final sanitized

version and justification(s) for denying portion

not released. These are created in reply to

FOI requests to disclose information. They are

filed with the full text record to provide

background for appeals, judicial action, and

future requests for the same record. IPS

case file copies are only temporary request

processing records. (Custodian is the Office

of Reoord.)

[SECRET

CLASSIFICATION

VOLUME

RECORDS CONTROL SCHEDULE

CONTINUATION SHEET

:..

DISPOSITION INSTRUCTIONS

Temporary. Destroy when obsolete,

superseded, or no longer needed.

Return empty binders to Regulations

Control Branch.

".,

Permanent. Transfer to the Agency

Records Center when no longer

needed.

Record copies assume the disposition

of the full text document. Destroy

sanitized version and applicable

justification(s) if full text is

subsequently disclosed in its

entirety or after superseded by ne

xpanded version and justification

(GRS 14-9b)

(61)

---

## Page 21

13-00000

Exhibit F

---

## Page 22

13-00000

NO.

27

8-76

Item 3a

28

322

…M 139a?2016

FILES IDENTIFICATION

CHASSIFICATION

SECRET

b. Emergency planning reports files. Agency

reports of operations tests, consisting

of consolidated or comprehensive reports

reflecting Agency-wide results of tents

conducted under emergency plans.

(1980 to present)

CIA LegLeLAtIOn FiLes.

consist of Agency legialation prior to 1t=

enactment into law.

Proposed amendments to

Agency Bille, background information and

other related material. Serves an a

reference to new and proposed legimlation

affacting the Agency. Filed numarically by

category. (1961 to prement)

Implovee artevans.

"RECORDS SERIES DISCONTTNUED GAV1993

PSEE RECORDS CONTRODESCHEDULE: 00-84,0

RECORDS CONTROL SCHEDULE

CONTINUATION SHEET

CLASSIFALATION

SECRET

VOLUME

32/30

60/12

DISPOSITION INETRUCTIUNS

PERMANENT. Cut off at end of each

calendar year, hold in current files

area for 2. years, then transfer to

AARC. (Deviates from GRS 18-30)

PERMANENT. When bill 10 enacted Into

law, screen and dentroy duplientes and

tranaltory material, then trannier

remainder to AARC.

ITEM 29 DISCONTINUED JAN. 93.

NEW SYSTEM OF RECORDS ESTABLISHED

PER HR 7R 7-6.

CHANGE 1, RCS 10-84, APRIL 1993.

APPROVED:

(Chief, IMB/PRD)

7/29/93

Date

1411

---

## Page 23

13-00000

101ND

NIH

111A1

NEW

BIBIE HHINTIPICATION

CIASSIFICATION

SECRET

j. Financial Disclosure Reports including

Form 2630, for individuals filing

according

to Executive Order 11222.

(OP/SIS maintains and is the office

of record for SF 278.)

NEW

k. Time and Attendance Reports including

reports from ELECTAS, ETAR, etc. Copies

held at component level by T&A clerks.

10-84

I tem

29

and

New

Records

Ised by

employees, except EEO complaints.

These case files

include employee

"Grievance Record" which initiates

the grievance and states the nature

of grievance, statement of witnesses,

circumstances that caused grievance,

reports

of interviews and hearings

examiner's findings and recommendations,

employee withdrawal, and final

esolution of grievance, (may include

Forms 4437, 4437a 6b,

4438,

4439, and

4440). filed by employee name.

(publish-

ed in the Federal Register, CIA-15,

Notification of Systems of

Records,

Privacy Act of 1974.

The Federal

Register must be amended if this system

is changed or discontinued.

RECORDS CONTROL SCHEDULE

OMEITIARIEET

CLASSIFICATION

VUI. UMI

DISH'OSITION INSTRUETIONS

TEMPORARY. Destroy when 6 years old

or no longer needed in an ongoing

investigation, whichever is later.

(Complies with GRS 1-25a (2))

Item 9j--Approved:

5Oct86

C/IRMD /OIS (DATE)

TEMPORARY. Destroy years after

cutoff.

year,

(Complies with GRS 2, Item 3a) •

Item

9k added to clarify disposition

• RCS 00-84, Change 4, June 1991.

APPROVED:

7Jun91

(Chief, IMD/OIT)

(DATE)

updated clanged: 51151976807 445

DisposiTion is byps Now.

(411

---

## Page 24

13-00000

miss.

NEW

IT EM

NO.

FILES IDENTIFICATION

LASSIFICATIO

SECRE

VOLUME

DISPOSITION INSTRUCTIONS

(1) Component files

(a) Grievance files closed at

component level.

(2)

(b) Grievances that are not resolved

resolved at component level.

(c) Quarterly statistics summary

forwarded to Directorate

Grievance Officer.

Directorate Grievance Officers

files.

(a) Grievances initiated at

Directorate level or files:

received from components.

(Item 1(b) above).

(b) Grievances closed at

Directorate level.

TEMPORARY: Destroy Y years after

case is closed.

Cutoff closed

cases at end of calendar year,

hold 7 years, then destroy.

TEMPORARY: Transfer complete case

file to Directorate Grievance

Officer

(Item b(1) below).

TEMPORARY: Destroy " years

after closed.

at end

of calendar year, hold 7 years,

then destroy.

(c) Grievances that are not

resolved at Directorate

(d) Quarterly statistics summary

forwarded to IG.

TEMPORARY: Destroy 7 years

case is closed.

Cutoff closed

cases of claendar year.

hold

7 years,

then destroy.

TEMPORARY: Transfer complete

case file to IG

(Item 3(a) below).

TEMPORARY: Destroy 7 years

after closed.

of calendar year, hold 7 years,

then destroy.

(3) Grievance files maintained by IG

a) Grievances initiated at I

evel or files received fron

Directorate Grievance Officer.

AM 139a invious

*011s

ONS

RECORDS CONTROL SCHEDULE

CONTINUATION SHEET

CLASSIFiCATION

SECRET

141)

17

---

## Page 25

13-00000

7/17.969

., 1111. E

NFW

IT8A1

NO.

PILES IDENTIFICATION

LASSIFICATIOI

SECRE!

VOLUME

Apolving

(2) Closed cases involving

litigation.

(b) Statistical summaries

peques...

INSTRUCTIONS

TEMPORARY:

perclosed cases

then destroyi

TEMPORARY:

Destroy 7 years

after case is closed.

closed cases at end

of calendar

year, hold 7 years, then destroy.

TEMPORARY:

Destroy 7 years

after closed.

Cutoff at end

of

calendar year, hold 7 years, then

destroy.

[tem 91 added new RCS 00-8

Change 5, Apxil 199:

Approved:

MINING

10

Iraining Files.

Material on various training programs and

courses conducted or sponsored by component,

OTE, other Agency components, or external

organizations.

Course descriptions, outlines

or lesson plans, schedules, announcements,

applications and authorizations, student

rosters, evaluations, correspondence,

training aids, and other supporting

material, including official individual

training

records.

a. Internal training. Duplicates of

information pertaining to internal

Agency-sponsored training programs and

courses.

(Office of Iraining and

Education is the office of record.)

TEMPORARY. Destroy when superseded

or obsolete.

ender

139, "*

RECORDS CONTROL

SCHEDULE

CLASSIFICATION

(A1)

---

## Page 26

Exhibit G

13-00000

---

## Page 27

13-00000

TEK ASSASSINATO U RET

106 STAT. 3444

PUBLIC LAW 102-526-OCT. 26. 1992

106 STAT. 3443

1 USC 2107

note.

Public Law 102-526

102d Congress

An Act

To prorida for tbe expeditious dinclosure el poords relevant lo the necesalaation

of Preident John F. Kansedy.

Be is enacled by the Senale and House of Representatives of

the Urited States of Amerion in Congress assembled,

SECTION L SHOET TITLE

This Act may be cited as the "President John F. Kennedy

Assasrination Records Collection Act of 199%.

&BC. 1. FINDINGS, DECIARATIONS, AND PURPOSES

(a) FINDINGS AND DECLARATIONS,- The Congress finds and

declares thaE.a

1) all Government records related to the assassinate

President daas . Kennedy twuld ben deserved or bustarte

0ol 25, 1992

(S. 3006)

Presideat John

F. Kennedy

Anasalaation

Racorde

Collectlon Act of

1992.

4 USC 2107 •

WUSe 2107

mote,

PUBLIC LAW 102-526 OCT. 26, 1992

SEC. & DEFINITIONS.

In this Act:

(1) "Archivist" means the Archivist of the United States.

to the assassination of

President John &. Kennedy,. Lit wa

created or tando ayahhie for we by obtatued by, sotherwise

CamE nO 22O possession de

A the Camation to Invertigate the Assassination

of President John E. Kennedy (the "Warren Commission");

(B the Commission on

Central Intelligence Agency

Activities Within the United States (the "Rockefeller Cow-

misco the Senato Salect Committee to Study Govern-

mental Operations with Respect to Intelligenes Activities

(the "Church Committee"

@) the Select Committee on Intelligence (tie Tse

Committee") of the House of Representatives;

B) the Select Committee on ABandone (C

Howe Assuminations Committee") of the House of Rei

Ey other otice al the Federal Goremanest; and

Indepe deat and a to see pro to coate pable deser

of such recorde

1) leginiadon is secessary because congressional record

related to

the usassination of President John F. Kenneds

would not otherwise be subject to public disclosure until at

least the year 2019:

(5) legislation is necessary because the Freedom of Informa-

rentd ta timplemento be sure at do branch, a to tr

sassination of President ohn L. Kennedy

6) lesislation is necessary becmuse Erecutive Order No

12356, entitled "National Security Information" has eliminated

the declassification and downgrading schedules relating to

classified information across government and has prevented

the timely public disclosure of records relating to the assassina-

tion of President John F. Kennedy, and

(7) most of the records related to the assassination of

President John F. Kennedy are almost 30 years old, and only

in the rarest cases is there any legitimate need for continued

dent John F. Kennedy,

but doen not include the autopsy recorde coanted by the Ken

nedy family to the National Arches' parmant to a deed of

gift regulating nocens to those records, or copies and reproduc-

(3) "Collection" means

Archives and Records Administration; and

(2) to require

the expeditious public transmission to the

chivist and public disclosure of such records.

and includes any Executive department, military department,

Government corporation, Government controlled corporation,

or other establishment in the executive branch of the Govern-

ment, including the Executive Office of the President, or any

dependen: regulatory agency

6) "Governmant oface means agy olice of the Feder:

Corn a i no out co on Ali atention with

House Committee on Administration

regard to the Select Committee on Assassinations of the

recorde of the House of Representatives

(B) the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate

rith regard to records of the Senate

Select Committee

o Study Governmental Operations with Respect to Intel

ligence Activities and other assassination records:

(C) the Library of Congress:

(D) the National Archives as custodian of assassination

records that it has obtained or possesses, including

the

Commission to Investigate the Assassination of President

+3-1290-8818251

---

## Page 28

13-00000

PUBLIC LAW 102-526 OCT. 26, 1992

John F. Kennedy and the Commission on Central Intel-

gence Arency Activities in the Untod Stated, an

E) say other executive branch office or arance and

any independent urengy.

(6) "Idenaticadon aid"

means the written description pre-

pared for each record as required in section

(7) "National Archives

means the National Archives and

Records Administration and all components thereol, including

Presidential 'archival

depositories

established under section

2112 of title 44, United States Code.

(8) "Official investigation" means the reviews of the assas.

sination of President John F. Kannedy conducted by any fresi.

lential commission, any authorized congressional committee

and any Government agoncy either independenty, a the

roquest of any Presidential commission or congressional com-

ment commission,

congresaional committoe,

or other govern-

mental entity that created a record or particular information

within a record.

(10) "Public interest" means the compolling interest in the

prompt public discloure of assassination rocords for historical

ing to America pople and at her old in co

assassination of President John F. Kennedy.

(11) "Record" includes a

book, paper, map, photograph

sound or video recording, machine readable materia, computer

ized.

digitized,

or electronic information, regardlem of the

medium on which it is stored, or other documentary material;

regardless of its physical form or charueteristies.

(12) "Reviow Board" means the Assasination Records

Review Board established by section 1.

(13) "Third agency means a Government agency that origi

nated an assassination record that in in the possession of

another agency.

SEC & PRESIDENT JOEN E. HENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS COL

LECTION AT THE NATIONAL ARCHIVES AND RECORDS

ADMINISTRATION

(8) IN GENERAL (1) Not later than 60 days after the date

of enactment of this Act the Nationn. Archives and Records

Administration sball commence establishment of a collection of

records to be known as the President John F. Kennedy Assassina-

tion Records Collection. In so doing, the Archivist shall ensure

the physical integrity and original provenance of all records. The

106 STAT. 3445

44 USC 2107

note.

section 2107 of title 44, United States Code. The Archivist shall

prepare and publish a subject guidebook and index to the collection.

(2) The Collection shall indude

(A) all assassination recorue....

(0) that have been Faurtitted to the National Archives

at al Archiver

or disclosed to the publie in an unredacted form prior

to die data of en stamined fo be trts mitted to the National

Archives;,or

Printing.

106 STAT. 3446

PUBLIC LAW 102-526-OCT. 26, 1992

(ai) the disclosure of which is postponed under this

Act.

B) a central directory comprised of identication aida cre

nted for each record transmitted to the Archivist under sectio

6; and

(C) all Review Board records as reguired by this Act

(0) DISCLOSURE DE RECORDS AlI

assessination

records

transmitted to the National Arcaves for disclosure to the publie

shall be included in the Collection and shall be available to the

Historie

preservalion.

) charge fees for copying ansarination records; and

(2) grant waivers of

men toes pursuant to the standarde

establinhod by soction 552(a(4) of title 5, Unitod States Code.

(d) ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTIL, (I) The Colloction shall bo

presarved,

protoctod, archirod, and mado mailablo lo

the public

at the National Archives wing ppropriations authorized, spoclied,

and restricted for und under the terms of thin Act.

4 USC 2107.

note.

OVERsalt 13e Committoe on Goveramant Operations

• Mouse of hopresenterted and the Committee on Governmen

Aflairs of the Senate shall have continuing oversight jurisdiction

with respect to the Collection.

SEC. & REVIEW, MENTIFICATION, TRANKHISSION TO THE NATIONAL

ARCHIVES, AND PUBLIC DICLOSUKE OF ABSABRINATION

RECORDE EX GOVERNIENT OFTICIS.

(@ IN GENERAL (1) As soon as practicable after the date

of eunchment of this Act, each Goriermant afice shall identify

public prior to the date of enactment of this Act may be withbeld.

redacted, postponed for public divelosure, or reclassified:

(4) No assassination record created by a person or entity outside

government (excluding names or identities consistent with the

requirements of section 6) shall be withheld, redacted, postponed

for public disclosure; or reclaurified.

(O) CUSTODY OF AFRASSINATION RECORDS-PENDING REVIEW.-

During the review by Government offices and pending review activ-

tial review;

(2) transfer is necessary for an administrative hearing or

other Review Board function; or

it is a third agency record described in subsection

---

## Page 29

13-00000

PUBLIC LAW 102-52G OCT. 26, 1992

106 STAT. 3447

106 STAT. 3448

ELaTIOn to the Archives

(2) Is carrylay out paragraph (1), a Goverament ofies shal

reoorda;

(A) determine which of its

records are assassination

(B) determine which of its assasgination redords have been

officially disclosed or publicly available in a complete and

unredacted form;

(CXU determine which of its assassination records, or par-

ticular information contained in such a record,

was created

y a third agency or by another Goverament obnce; ar

i trammit to a third agency or other Government otio

those records, or particular information sontained in those

records, or complete and accurate copies thereof;

ticular information in assassination

the standards for portponement of publie disclosure under this

Act, and

(li) specify on the identification aid required by subsection

(a) the applicable postponement provision contained in section

Public

Inforsation

PUBLIC LAW 102-526 OCT, 26, 1992

(B) The Archivist shall ensure that the identification aid pro

ram in ertablished in such a manner as to result in the creatior

if a uniform system of electronis récords by Goveriment offoc

that are compatible with each other.

offco shapon completion of an identification aid, a Government

A) attach a printed copy to the record it describes

3) transmit to the Meter our & printed copy,, and

(O) attach a printed copy to each amasannion record it

deseribes when it in transmitted to the Archivist.

S) Assassination records which are in the

have been phlyes on tho date of enachment of thin Ach, ton of ich

have been publicy available in their entirety without redaction

shall be made armilable in the Collection without any additiona

review by the Review Board or another authorized office under

this Act, and shall not be required to have such an idantifiention

ald unless required by the Archivist.

(0) TRANENTASION TO YEE NATIONAL ARCHIVES -Each Govern-

ble to the public

1) tra put to the Archina a nord am cantal a vail

discore, inducing those that are publicly arallable on the

an or withholdi

uncertainery

() organtee and maice avallable to the Review Board any

record concerning which the office has uny uncertainty as to

whether the record is an assassination record governed by

this Act;

G) give priority to

i the identification

review, and transmistion of all

assassination records publicly available or disclosed as of

the date of enactment of this Act in a redacted or edited

form; and

((ii) the identification, review, and transmision, under

the standards for postponement set forth in this Act, of

assassination records that on the date of enactment of

his Act are the subject of litigation under section 652

of title 6, United States Code; and

(H) make available to the Review Board any additional

information and records that the Review Board ban reason

to believe it requires for conducting a review under this Act.

(3) The Director of each archival depository established under

section 2112 of title 44, United States Code, shall have as a priority

the expedited review for public disclosure of assassination records

in the possession and custody of the depository, and shall make

such records available to the Review Board as required by this

Act

d) IDENTIICATION AIDS.- (IXA)Not later than 45 days alte

the date of enactment of this. A

, the Archivist, in consultatio

vith the appropriate Government ollices, shall prepare and make

• available to all Government offices a standard form of identification

or finding aid for use with each assasination record subject to

review under this Act

ae past ache protocied

Federal

Reciter.

publication.

at the National Archives as required in section 4(+X2).

postponed or redacted records aball be reviewed periodicall

by the originating agency and the Archiviat consistent with the

ecommendations of the Review Board under section 0(cX3XB)

(2XA) A periodic review shall address the public disclosure

of additional

assassination records in the Collection under the

standards of this Act.

(B) All postponed assassination records determined to require

continued postponement

shall require an unclassified written

description of the reason for such continued postponement. Such

description shall be provided to the Archivist and published in

the Federal Register upon determination

(C) The periodic review of postponed assassination records shall

serve to downgrade and declassify security clasaified information.

(D) Each

assassination record manll be publicly disclosed in

Laye as atto ha ca locat not of than ch, data that

President certifies, as required by this Act, that

able on to po plea defense nelligenos operatin.

intelligence operations,

law enforcement, or conduct of foreign relations; and

---

## Page 30

13-00000

PUBLIC LAW 102-526 OCT. 26, 1992

106 STAT. 3449

(ii) the identifiable harm is of such gravity that it outweighs

the public interest in disclosure.

(h) FERS FOR COPYING. Executive branch agencies shall-

(1) charge fees for copying assassination records; and

(2) grant waivers of such fees pumuant to the standards

establined by section 552(a(4) of title 6, United States Code.

SEC. & -GROUNDS FOR POSTEONEMINT OF PUBLIO DISCLOSURE DE

46 USC 2107

ERCORDS,

"aole.

Discloure of assassination records or particular information.

in assassination records to the public may be postponed subject

to the limitations of this Act If there in clear and convincing evidence

that

(1) the threat to the military defense, intelligence oper

or conduct of foreign relations of the United States

not it pati che in pile hang tong i prie

disclosure would foren m

(A) an intellipence spent whose identity currently

requires protecton;

(B) an intelligence source or method which is currently

utilized, or Fessonably expected to be uttired, by the Unite

States Government and which has not been oficially dis

closed,

the

disclosure of which would interfere with the

•conduct of intelligence activities.or

(C) any other matter currently relating to the military

defense

intelligence operations or conduct of foreign rela.

tons of the United States, the disclosure of which would

demonstrably impair the national security of the United

States;

(2) the-public disclosure of the asassination record would

eveal the name or identity of a living person who provided

onfidential information to the United States and would pose

106 STAT. 3450

PUBLIC LAW.102-526-OCT. 26, 1992:

alfiliation, 5 citizens to serve as members of the Review Board

to ensure and facilitate the review, tranamission to the Archivist,

and public discloure of Goverument records related to the assas.

sination of President John F. Kennedy.

2) The President shal make nominations to the Review Board

not later. than 90 calendar days after the date of enactment of

this Act.

(8) If the Senate votes not to confirm a nomination to the

Review Board, the President hall make an additional| nomination

not later than 30 days thereafter.

(4XA) The President shall make nominations to the Reviow

Board after contidaring persons recommended by the American

Historical Association, the Organization of American Historians,

the Society of American Archiviste, and the American Bar Associa-

tion.

(B) If an organization described in sabparagraph (A) does not

recommend at least 2 nominees meeting the qualifestions stated

in paragraph (5) by the date that in 15 days after the date of

enactment of this Act, the President shall consider for nomination

sub paraga commended by the older organizations describod ir

(C) The President may request an organiration described in

of personal privacy, and that invasion of privacy is so substan-

ial that it outweighs the public interest

(4) the public disclosure of the assassination record would

(5) the public disclosure of the assassination record would

eveal a security or protective procedure currently utilized

r reasonably expected to be utilized, by the Secret Servic

or another Government agency responsible for protecting Gov.

ernment officials, and public disclosure would be so harmful

SEC. 7. ESTABLISEMENT AND POWERS OF THE ASSASSINATION

'44 USC 2107

RECORDS REVIEW BOARD.

nole.

(a) ESTABLISHMENT. -There is established as an independent

• agary a board to be known as the Assassinations Records Review

(b) APPOINTMENT. (1) The President, by and with the advice

President.

and consent of the Senate, shall appoint, without regard to political

Reports.

presantly employed by any brunch ef the Govemmeat, and

State; or local government, relating to the amastination of

President John F. Kannedy

(B) shall be distingalshod persons of high national profes-

sional reputation in their respective tields who are capable

{exercising the independent and objective judgment necessar

• the fulfilment of their role in emering und Inclitatin

• the review, transmittion to the pablic, and public disclosure

of recorda related to the assurination of President Joba F.

Kennedy and who possess an apprecintion of the value of suc

naterial to the public scholars und povernment: un

(C) shall include at least 1 professional historian and 1

attorney.

(e) SECURITY CLEARANCES- (1) All Review Board: nominees

shall be granted the necessary security clearances in an accelerated

manner subject to the standard procodures for granting such elear.

ances.

. (2) All nominees shall qualify for the necesary security clear-

ance prior to being considered for oonfirmation by the Committee

on Governmental Affairs of the Senate.

(d) CONFIRMATION HEARINGS, - (1) The Committee on Govern-

mental Affairs of the Senate shall hold confirmation bearings within

30 days in which the Senate is in session after the nomination

of 3 Review Board members.

(2) The Committee on Goveramental Afaire shall vote on the

nominations within 14 days in which the Senate is in session

ver the conarmation hearings, and saall report its resulta t

he full Senate immediately

---

## Page 31

13-00000

PUBLIC LAW 102-526-OCT. 26, 199%

(3) The Senate shall vote on ench nominee to confirm or reject

within 14 days in which the Senate is in sution aftar reported

by the Committee on Governmental Affairs®

106 STAT. 3451

106 STAT. 3452

elect one of its members° as chairperion at its initial mooting.

(E) REMOVAL OF REVIEW BOARD MENAER (1) No member of

the Review Board shall be remored from office, other than

(A) by impeachment and conviction; or

(B) by the action of the President for ineficieney, noglect

of duty, malfeasance in ofice, physical disability.

mental

neapacity, or any other condition that rubetantially impair

he performance of the member a dutie

2XA) If a member of the Raview Board is removed from office

and that remoral is by the Precident, not later than 10 days

after the remoral the Proaident shall mubmit to the Committee

on Government Operations of the House of Representatives und

the Committee on Governmental Affairs of the Senate a report

specifying the lace found and the grounds for the removal.

B) The President shall publinh in the Federal Begister & repor

submitted under paragraph (2XA), except that the President may,

Federal

Leginte

Prodident.

Hoparta.

¿he completion of such pending cases or purraant to privacy protes

Sion requirements in law.

(3XA) A member of the Review Board removed from ofice

may obtain judicial review of the remoral in a civil netion com-

menced in the United States District Court for the District of

Columbia

(B) The member may be reinitated or granted otbar appropriate

relief by order of the court.

(a) COMPENSATION OF MIBERS.-(i) A member of the Review

are dal be gup orated at a rate act to the date valent

Executive Schedule under section 6316 of title 5, United States

lode, for each day (including travel time) during which the membe

s engaged in the performance of the duties of the Review • Board

(2) A member of the Review Board shall be allowed reasonable

travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, at rates

or employees of agencies under subchapter 1 of chapter by o

itle 5, United States Code, while away from the members hom

or regular place of business in the performanos of services for.

the Review Board.

(i) DUTIES OF THE REVIEW BOARD. (1) The Review Board shall

consider and render decisions on a determination by & Government

olice to seel to postpone the disclosure of assassination records

2) In carrying out paragraph (1), the Review Board shal

consider and render decisions.

(A) whether a reoord constitutes an assassination record:

and

(B) whether an assassination record or particular informg-

tion in a-record qualifies for portponement of discloture under

this Act.

PUBLIC LAW 102-526. OCT. 26, 1992

() POWERS.-(1) The Review Board shall have the authority

to act in a manner prescribed under this Act including authority

to..

(A) direct Government offices to complete identification

aids and organize assassination recorda;

(B) direct Government offices to transmit to the Archiviat

assassination records as required under this Act, including

segregable portions of asanaination records, and substitutes

and summaries of assassination records that can be publicly

disclosed to the fullest extent;

(CXi) obtain access to assassination records that have been

identified and organized by a Government office;

(ii) diroct a Government office to make available to the

Review Bourd, and if necessary investigate the facte surround.

ng, additional information; records, or testimony from individ

zals which the Review Board has reason to bolieve is requirer

to fulfil its functions and responsibilities under this Act, and

(li) request the Attorney Ganeral to subpoans private per-

und qther information rej-

for the destruction of any records relating to the' assassination

of Premident John F. Kennedy;

(B) receive information from the public regarding the

identification and public disclosure of assassination records;

and

(F) hold hearing, administer oaths, and subpoena wit

besses and documents.

(2) A subpoena issued under paragraph (IXCXii) may be

enforced by any appropriate Federal court acting pursuant to a

lawful request of the Review Board.

(e Wiress IMMuNIy. The Review Board shall be considered

• to bil 1, Dato the Coitad States for purposes of

section 6001

(1) OVERSIGHT. (1) The Committoe on Government Operations

of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Govern-

mental Affairs of the Senate shall have continuing oversight juris.

diction with respect to the official conduct of the Review Board

Reviet dap, ind of paye so recode te to mild or of the

by the Review Board.

(2) The Review Board shall have the duty to codperate with

the exercise of euch oversight jurisdiction

(m) SUPPORT SERVICES The Administrator of the General

Services Administration shall provide administrative services for

the Review Board on a reimbursable basis.

(n) INTERPRETIVE REGULATIONS, The Review Board may issue

interpretive regulations.

(0) TERMINATION AND WINDINO UP. (1) The Review Board

and the terras of its members shnil terminate not later than 2

Reports.

2-year period.

(2) Upon its termination, the Review Board shall submit reports

to the President and the Congress including a complete and accurate

---

## Page 32

13-00000

PUBLIC LAW 102-526-OCT. 26, 1992

accounting of expenditures during its existence, and shall complete

all other reporting requirements under this Act.

(3) Upon termination and winding up, the Review Board shall

transfer all of its recorde to the Archivist for inclumion in the

Collection, and no record of the Review Board shall be destroyed.

SEC. A. ASSASSINATION RECORDS REVIEH BOARD PEESONNEL.

(8) EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR.-(1) Not Inter than 45 days after

he initial meeting of the Review Board, the Review Board shal

appoint one citizen, without regard to political affiliation, to the

position of Executive Director.

106 STAT. 3453

46 USC 2107

Bole.

of the Goverument and bas

any official investigation or inquiry relating to the arrassination

of President John F. Kennedy.

NA A candidate for Erecutive Director mall be granted th

cessary socurity clearances in an ocelerated manner ruble

to the standard procodures for granting ruch clearances.

A) serve as principal linison to Government offices,

B) be responsible for the administration und coordinatior

of the Review Board's revlew of recorder;

responsible for the administration of all official

(5) The Executive Director shall not be remored for reasons

other than by a majority vote of the Review Board for cause on

b) STAFT. (1) The Review Board may, in acoordanoe wit

be civil service laws but without regard to civil service law and

gulation for competiave service as denned in subchapter o, Chi

r 33 of title 5, United' States Code, appoint and terminate ad

3XA) A candidate for stal, shall be granted the necessar

¡ecurity clearances in an accelerated manner subject to the standar

procedures for granting such clearances.

security a cardid to or to tag all a to teen eary

(c) COMPENSATION. The Review Board shall fix

the com-

pensation of the Executive Director and other personnel in accord-

ance with title b.

United States Code, except that the rate of

pay for the Executive Director and other personnel may not erosed

; 106 STAT. 3454

16 USC 2101

nolo

Federal

Register

publication

PUBLIC LAW 102-526 OCT. 26, 1992

he rate payable for level V of the Executive schedule under, secto

316 of that tid

(d) ADVISORY COMMITTEES, (1) The Review Board shall have

he authority to create advisory committees to assist in fulfillin

he responsibilities of the Review joard under this Act

2) Any advisory committee crented by the Review Board sh

• subiect to the Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App

. SEC. & REVIEW OF RECORDS BY THE ASSASSINATION RECORDS

REVIEW BOARD.

(2) CUSTODY OF RECORDS REVLEWED BY BOARD:--Pending the

outcome of the Review Board's review activity, a Government offoc

shall retain custody of its assassination rooords fori purposes of

reservation, security, and aiiciency, unlese

1) the Review Board requires the physical transier o

rever, for reasons of conducting an independent and impartial

2) such transfer is necesaary for an administrative bearing

or other official Review Board function

(b) STARTUP REQUIREMENTS- The Review Board shall

(1) not later than 90 days after the date of ita appointment

ub lied a schedule, on doview of all assassination records ir

of this net, begia ite review of assesination records under

of arsentination records unde

this Act.

(e) DELERINATIONS OF THE REVIEW BOARD.- (1)' The Review

Board shall direct, that all assassination. records be transmitted

to the Archivist and disclosed to the public in the Collection in

le absenos of clear and convincing evidenco that

1 & Government rocord is not an assados recon

(B) * Government record or particular information within

an assassination record qualifies for postponement of public

disclosure under this Act.

2) In approving postponement of publie disclosure of ao assas.

sination record, the Review Board shall seek to

Al provide for the disclosure of segregable parts, sub

stitutes, or suramaries of such a record; anc

(B) determine, in consultation with the originating body

and consistent with the standards for postponement under this

Act, which of the following alternative forms of disclosure shall

oc made by the originating body

(i) Any reasonably segregable particular informatior

in an assassination record.

(il) A substitute record for that information which is

postponed.

(i:) A summary of an assassination record.

(3) With respect to each assassination record or particula:

information in assassination records the public disclosure of which

is postponed pursuant to section 6, or for which only substitutions

r summaries have been disclosed to the public, the Review boar

hall create and transmit to the Archiviat a report containing-

(A) a description of actions by the Review Board, the origi-

the President, or any Government office (including

postpone

disclosure

any record or part of any record) and of any ofticial proceedings

---

## Page 33

13-00000

PUBLIC LAW 102-526-OCT. 26, 1992

conducted by the Review Board with regard to specific assas-

sination records; and

106 STAT. 3455

occurrence following which the material may be appropriately

disclosed to the public under this Act

(B) Contemporaneous notice shall be made to the President

for Review Board determinations regarding executive branch assas.

case of lepinlative branch rocords.

shall contain a written unclassified justification for public disclosure

or postponement of disclosure, including an explanation of the

application of any standards containod in section 6.

(d) PRESIDENTIAL AUTHORITY OVER REVINW BOARD DETERINA.

TION..

(1) PUBLIC DISCLOSURE OR POSTPONTICENT OF DISCLO

SURE -After the Review Board has made « formal determina»

tion concerning the public discloure or portponement of disclo

sure of an executive branch assassination record or information

within such & record, or of any information contained in an

obtained or developed solely within the

executive branch,

the Preaident shall

hare the sole and

sondelegable authority to require the discloture or postpone

nent of such record or information under the standards sel

forth in section 6, and the President shall provide the Review

Board with an unclassified written cortification specifying the

President's decision within 30 days after the Review Board's

etermination and notice to the executive branch agancy a

equired under this Act stating the jusbification for the Preci

lents decision, including the applicable grounds for postpone

nent under section 6. accompanied by a copy of the identifica

tion aid required under section 4.

(2) PERIODIC REVIEW. Any executive branch assassination

record postponed by. the President shall be subject to the

requirements of periodie review, downgrading and declassifica-

tion of classified information, and public disclosure in the collec-

tion set forth in section 4.

(3) RECORD OF PRESIDENTIAL POSTPONEMENT. The Review

Board shall, upon its receipt, publish in the Federal Register

Federal

Register.

publlestion.

(e) NOTICE TO PUBLIC. Every

on the date that is 60 calendar devs after the date on which

the Review' Board first approves the postponement of disclosure

of an assassination reoord, the Review Board shall publish in the

Federal Register a notice

that summarizen the postponements

pproved by the Review Board or initiated by the President the

louse of Representatives, or the Senate, including a descriptior

Federal

Register,

publiention.

106 STAT. 3456

PUBLIC LAW 102-526-OCT. 26, 1992

of the subject, originating agency, length or other physical descrip-

tion, and each ground for postponement that in relied upon

D REPORTS BY THE REVIET BOARD. 1) The Review Board

wil report its activities to the leadersbip of the Conmen

the

mmittee on Government Operations of the House of Re

resentatives, the Committee on Governmental Affairs of the Senate,

the President, the Archlyist, and the head of any Government

olice whose records have been the subject of Review Board activity,

(2) The first report shall be issued on the date that is

year after the date of enactment of this Act, and subsequent reports

very 1e months thereafter until termination of the Review Boar

3) A report under paragraph (1) shall include the followin

information:

(A) A fnancial report of the expenses for all official activi.

ties and me present or de Ra rev, danie on to tol.

transmission to the

Archivist, and public disclosure of assassination records.

(C) The estimated time and volume of assassination record

involved in the completion of the Review Board's performano

under this / pocial problems, tocludias, requeste and the lovel

8, With regard to tho abli

(E) A record of review

activities, including a rcoord.of

postponement decisions by the Raview Board or other related

actions authorized by this Act, and a record of the volume

of records reviewed and postponed.

(5) Suggestions and requerts to Congress for additional

legialative authority needs.

(G) An appendir containing copies of reporte of postponed

records to the Archivist required under section 9679) made

since the date of the preceding report under this subsection.

4) At least 90 calendar days bofore completing its work, the

Review Board shall provide written notice to the Pregident and

Congress of its intention to terminate its operations at a specified

date.

44 USC 2107

mate.

SEC. 10. DISCLOSURE OF OTECE: MATERIALS AND ADDITIONAL

STUDY.

(a) MATERIALS UNDER SEAL OF COURT.-

(1) The Review Board may request the Attorney General

to petition any court in the United States or abroad to relageo

to petition any court in the

information relevant to the assassination of President John

F. Kennedy that is held under the injunction of secrecy of

a grand jury.

(B) A request for disclosure of assassination materials

under this Act shall be deemed to conetitute

a showing of

particularized need under Rule 6 of the Rederal Rules of Cari.

nal Procedure.

(b) Sense of Covaress.-It is the sense.of the Congress that

(1) the Attorney General should assist the Roview Board

in good faith to unseal any records that the Review Board

---

## Page 34

13-00000

PUBLIC LAW 102-526- OCT. 26, 1992

106 STAT. 8457

determines to be' ralevant and held under seal by a court

r under the injunction of socrecy of a frand jury

2) the Secretary of State should contact. the Government

of the Republic of Buria and soak the disclorure of ail records

of the government of the former Soviet Union, Including

records of the Komitet Goruderetvennoy Beropanorti (KGB)

and contac

any other foreign government that may hold information rel.

evant to the assassination of Praident Kennedy mad see, dig-

elosuro of cuch information; and

(3) all Executive agencies whould cooperate in full with

the Roview Board to wook the disclosure of all information

rolerant to the unsarination of Prondent John F. Kennedy

consistent with the public interest.

SEC. 1I EULES OF CONSTRUCTION

44 USC 2107

note.

(R) PRECRDENCE OVER OTHra IMtWhen this het requires

ransmision of a record to the Archivist dr publie disclonur

ball taice precedence over any other law (empept mection 610:

to the United States Government

(O) FARADON OF INFORMATIQN ACT. Nothing in this Act shal

(d) EaSTING AUTHORTY. Nothing in this Act revokes or limits

Senate, or the House of Representatives,,

the Goveinment to publicly disclose recorde in its possession.

(e) RULES OF THE SENATE AND HOUSE OF REPRISENTATIVES.-

To the extent that any provision of this Act establishes a procedure

lo be followed in the Senate or the House of Representatives,

such provision is adopted

1) as an exercise of the rulemaling power of the benat

and House of Representatives, respectively, and is deemed t

be part of the rules of each House, respectively, but applicable

only with respect to the procedure to be followed in that House,

and it supersedes other rules

only to the extent that, it is

inconsistent with such rules; and

(2) with full recognition of the constitutional right of either

House to change the rules (so far as they relate to the procedure

of that House) at any time, in the same manner, and to the

same extent as in the case of any other rule of that House.

„ SEC. 12. TERMINATION OF EFFECT OF ACT.

(8) PROVISIONS PERTAINING TO THE REVIEW BOARD. The provi

sions of this Act that pertain to the appointment and operation

. of the Review Board shall cease to be'ellective when the Review

Board and the terms of its members have terminated pursuant

to section i(o).

44 USC 2107

note.

106 STAT. 3458

PUBLIC LAW 102-526 OCT. 26, 1992

44 USC 2107

note.

44 USC 2107

note.

(b) OTHER PROVISIONS, The remaining provisions of this Ac

shall continue in effect until such time as

ne Archivist certifie

to the Prenident and the Congress that all assassination reeords

have been made available to the public in, accordance with this

Act.

SEC. 1% AUTEORIZATION OE APPROPRIATIONS.

• (a) IN GENERAl: There are authorized to be appropriated such

sums as are necessary to carry out this Act, to remain available

until expended:

(b) INTERDe FUNDING. Until such time as funds are appro

priatoe pursuant to

subsection (a), the Preaident may use such

sums as are avallable for discrationary use to chery out thin Act

SEC. I4 SEVERABILITY

any provinion of this Act or the application thereor to ar

person or

rcumstance is held invalid, the reminder of this A

and the application of that provision to other persons not similaris

ituated or to other circumstances shall not be allected by the

Invalidation

Approved October 26, 199%.

LBOISLATIVE HISTORY -S. 3006 (1.J. Ros, 154%

Oct 26, Premidential sinlement

---

## Page 35

Exhibit H

13-00000

---

## Page 36

13-00000

Names thnu: -986

Narte:

Component:

- 00

Type: 37/7

Complaint:

Referred to

boy:

Date

Opened: 22 March

197

Date

Opened nu dair:

Date

Closed:

3- May

1977

Date

Closed min/davy

Inspectors:

Cor

Category:

Spec

Cons

Action:

WES

loser resolution possible?:

grievant

satisfied?:

Case

Referred to:

Report Sent to:

Did OGC refer case to DOJ?:

Did DOJ decide to prosecute?:

Record

Center Too

Number

80 - 01770R

Box: 2

Conment si

---

## Page 37

13-00000

flanies

- one one s&01s.

on assignment to DO SE Mosco

туре:

IC 21/86

complaint:

Allegation of misconduct. Possible unauthorized outside activity a

gain

Misuse of station OTs supplies for own financia

Referred te

IG

Date

by::

Opened: 17 October 1936

Date

opened mai/dia/yu: 10/17/86

Date

Closad: 12

December

198 c

Date

Closed

ữ/dan: 12/12/86

Inspectors:

Neal

Category: CRIMINAL.

& PROHIBITED ACTS, COnEliCE OL Interest Theit & MISuSE

Spec Cons: CROSS

REF:

Action:

Was

loven

resolution possible?:

Was

grievant satisfied?:

Case Referved to:

Repout

Sent to:

Did oee herer case

to DOd?;

Did DoJ decide to prosecute?:

Record Center Tol

• Number: 39B01070F

Comment s:

---

## Page 38

13-00000

Name:

LONNQUEST GaRy

Component:

Type:

IG 21/86

Complaint:

CROSS REF

Referred to

BIG b7

Date

Opened:

Date

opened

run / cl

Date

Date

closed:

Closed

Inspectors:

Category:

Spec

Cons

Action:

Was lover

resolution possible?:

Mas

grievant

Case

satisfieda

Referred to:

Report Sent

to:

Did OCC refer case to DOJ?:

Dia DoJ decide to prosecute?

Record Center Tob Number:

Box:

Comments;

---

