104-10220-10306

13 January 1961

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJEGT: Cuban Delegation Planning to Come to Washington

:
t

{ SR At 1730 hours 12 January Mr. Barnes was given 4 summary
‘ of our present information concerning subject, which consisted of the
i following items: /,. 74 io facrpees tk CORPAMERRAL Hee

a. To thank Presidont Eisenhower for the $1, 000, 000
roliéf fund made available for Cuban refugees,

: bv. To thank the Peruvian Ambassador for the break
H in relations between Peru and Cuba,

¢, To try to yet an audience with the OAS in order
to influence other Latin American countrien to break
relations with Cuba,

: 2. According to a Bender source (AMCLATTER-1) who taiked
with Tony Varona, Varona considora this a completely unilaterat
operation, i.e,, an Autentico Party operation, Jt was arranged by
Tony through one Ernesto Rojas who contacted White House officials
Hopkins and White. Also involved are Manolo Bratia, Jose Antonio

| Myeatré and.an MRR mat’ namod Jose Antonio Mendez, (AMCLATTER-1
also mentioned a (fnu) Manolin Hernandez, a wealthy sugar man
connected with the Reforma Central.) AMCLATTER-1 had no
information concerning the size of the group although catimatesa seom
to run from a few hundred to about a thousand,

3, From Mr, Jacobs we hear that Rojas ia ah unofficial delegate
of AMBIDDY and lives at 6211 Glencarlyn Drive, Lake Bareroft, Falla
Church, JE&fferaon 2-5598, A call to this aumber was answered by
Rojas! wife who gaid yea, he iy connected with the matter of 1,000
signatures for presentation to Eisenhower.



4. Bill Kent reported from Miami that Rojas is working with
Manuel Brana and in New York with Jose Antonio Mestre, alias Jos
Agustine Mendez, Rojas talked to Mr. White and Mr. Hopkine of the
White House Staff in Pennaylvania recently.

5. AMCLATTER-1 also reported that Tony Varona said he was
dealing with Eduardo Gonzalez, a Rescate man in New York, who was
bringing down 300 people from New York in addition to the unspecified
number of people coming from Miami.

6, AMCLATTER-1 commented that when Rasco found out about
the proposed trip he called the MDC representative, name unknown,
in New York and told him to see that the movement was stopped since
it waa not FRD-sponsored, Eduardo Gonzalez called Varona to try to
get the MDC repreventuative to lay off, which Tony did, asauring. Rasco
that this was hia own personal operation.

i 7. Mr, Stanulle suggested that Mr, Barnes should make it quite
‘clear in any converaationa at the White House that we seriously doubt
that at thie stage Varona or anyone else can exert very much control
if the delegation comes ta Washington, This seems obvious since by
now not only does it avem that several groups ia addition to Varona's
were initially involved in tho organization of the cavalcade but others
may well try to get into the act,

8, We have been promised through the Bender channel more
precise information on when the cavalcade will arrive but given the
somewhat confused picture one cannot count on receiving advance

word,

‘Note: See memorandum to A/DDP/A, subject "Jose Manuel Brana
Duran,"

WH74/SAT7Econ

jh (13 Jan 1961)

Distribution: atte Se

Original and 1 - €/WH/4/PA
1 WHd/ Registry

1:--Originator = 2

