# 104-10529-10365

## Page 1

104-10529-10365

2739

a.J.

BRADENOR

OCE

02. 7454

17.00F 69

BOOK MISBACE AS PALON

BICAB T

170rö2 502

SIG CEN

•it lifes.

a7r cose

INFO

MACO CARA FAYE

COD PACT BAN MADE QUIT 1

76506

HOD: BUEN

LATIN ABRICAN WEILY BINA (HOFOIN IN SLANTS)

MEXICO CURA MOLICO ESPORISULY DAB AGASSD TO SELL ITS ENTIRES

10 T 70 N TO A TA T THE LOCAI

PURCHASTAS LOSST FOR THE BLOC, TRICKERI, A PERONIST ARE TINE SOE

DEBATIBO OUT OF SVITARILAD, RAS PIVIOUSLY TREMENE BOUGHT FOOD IN

NASTICO POR CASTRO, AND THIS PROPOSED VIRAT PURCRASS DAY ALSO IS FOR CURA

DIE CAL PARCE LO AROVE TE FORLO MARRY PRICE DOT CROS TE RACI

BERETIC PRICE FAID TO UNXICAN GRONERS BY TER MEXICAN GOVERNAT FUR-

CIA COLTA PICAS THE, OB LECISION TO SELL WHEAT TO THE BOVIET DUKON

ID CAUBINO LASZ COSTA RICANS TO PAVOR SECONS LIBRATION OF THEIR CONTESSE

GATINE ATTLE TOARD TRADR VITH CORNIST NATIONS, ACCORDIRC TO M

SENABLE SOURCE

AS ON TA SAR TOER..

A ESCRIT EDITORIAL IN LA EPUBLICA, WHICH

DALLY DALECTE TS CLILON ON TEA TACURAT NATIONAL LIRATION PARTY

ADVOCATIO LAVISITO TIS COUNTEY'S TRADE POLICY IN THIS USPECT. ALSO.

MY CONTA RICA'S CHRONIC SCORONIC DIPPICULTIES COULD BUCOURACE A SHIPI

88 C BET

---

## Page 2

ORiG

UNITA:

что-ти

" To

FROM, DIRECTOR

CONF:

INFOR

C'INDEX 4

O NO INDE

O FILE IN CS FILE NO.

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

3303:80

MACUI

DEFERRED

ROUTING

• INFO

CITE DIR:

FRACTT

MARE DIT

(com)

AERICAN COVIBGENTS AS UNBIN

OCRATIC GOVER

LEP UNTI

CURETTORA

THAT TH3 60IE

ECADES TO DO SO GET

NOTE LIE

A CLANDESTINE A

GOET C COUP PORTINO BY DIE-

SETS THAT TER CORAPTRATORB ARS. BRADY TO

AND WILL OAR TIS PEETEXT TRAT A COMUNIST COUP IS

BIS

KAT IN?

TE OTHE

MCISIO STRONG ATT-ELTINY WASURES WICH HAVE TRONA TIE CONMUNIETE

TATO DIPOLERE, POLICE FORCES URIA PLACE: ON ALEIR ON 24 OCTOBER, BUT IT

18 BOT CLEAR THETEER THIS VAS PROMPTED BY RUMORE OF A COUP.

DO PARAM. PORTON INTER SOLIS SAYS THAT HIS COVERIT VILL,

XI TIS INKT FEW VETKS, AGAIN ENQUEST FORAL NNCOTIATIONE WITH THE UNITED

STASE TO MIVI THE 1903 TRIATY COVERING THI CANAL 20M,

SHITE A

COOR

had in evermaid

AUTMEN

ICATING

BBC 85 I

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PONIBITEO.

"Capy Mai

---

## Page 3

CLASSICIO

ASCRET

PAGE -9 8

76506

PIRBYIRITIAS SUCTION SET YOR NEXT LAY, THE CHIARI COVERAENT'S RAIBING

ON TEN CATAL SONS PROSEN AT THIS TIME SERAS INTENDED AS AN EFPORT TO

KID TAS SNXTIATIVS ANAY YHON ITS OPPOINTS ON THIS HIGHLY SNOTIONAL

ISSUE DIS ANUTTED AS LUCH BY LAYINO THAT TES OPENING OF MISCO

TIATIONS POULA MERED THS PARAMARIAN PUBLIC QUIET. - (CONT)

CONTINUING POLITICAL ISOLATION AND: ES

POERO COUNTRRCCUS TROTTISO DY BOTH ITS CORONEINIS AND SOME ATOVED SUA

POICES ASS DARING TRS NE COVINNHENTS FUTURE INCHLASINCLY UNCERTAIN.

TRTULVIRATE LEADER BULLIO DE LOB SANTOS IS REPORTED TO BE.

ARESCUS TO ESBICS ALLAGERLY ESCAVEN OF HIS DISGUST VITH SOLDID: AC-

TIVITIRS OF THE POLITICAL PARTIES, PARTICIPATING IN THE ARCTAR. "

CIVILIAN

KRAKO AND MUL TAIY BICKERS OF THE NET GOVERNENT ARE RATUSING TO

ILYANUTER MISJO FOUSE TO JUAN CABANOVAS, PRESIDENT OPATHE DISSOLVEN

SITATE AND THY HO IN PERS IDENTIAL SUCCESSION UNDER THE ABROGATED CON-

STITUTION TRO CLATES THAT A ARCENT QUORUN OF TUS DEPOSED CONGRESS

ESCHRYSLY TECTED DIA PEESIRENT B HAS BEEN SBEKIG MENISPIERIC RS.

KEN COASTION 09 THE COUSTITUTIONAL PRESIDENT

ECUADORI DEN BCUADOREAN ARMY OFFICERS ARE TARING A 75-DAY

COGS IN ESPARL ON AGRICELTURAL ADE STRATION TIR SCUADORRANS ATLI

---

## Page 4

CUASSIFIED MESSAGE

Lt-42

„ROUNNG!,

ONG

TUNIT

1) INDEX

П. NO INDE

LI FiLE. IN CS FILE NO.

FA:

3

10 :.8

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF, '

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

INFO"

•CiTE DIR

76506

ON ANLY TO LINES MY DANT TO TA ARRAN BATTE

cottons the theostar.

I3 DATOND DA AS O ME ASITIOUS SYNER UNCIES, ONERAL AUNLIO

ARAO, TO SAD ME CLOM TO TUS COME WATIVES,

(com)

O, VISABELA: TER INBOTER OF DEPRESS FORESIRE A BURTAKE IN.

CARARS LI FEERORIST ACTIVITIRE IS INTIMATED TO TER US AMRASSADOS 0E

D OCTOBER THAT

NES ARMY IS HATING PROUBLE BUPPERBSING VIOLINCS LANGELY:

VOTUSE AND CRITICAL OF TAR CANBRAL PURLIC:S LACK O7 COOPERATION. (0082)

10, BOLIVIA: TUS POLITICAL PONTUNES OF PASSIORET VICTOR PAZ

ОТВЕКОО, ИНО ПЛА, ДАНУВ ОН ЗЗ ОСТОВЕА РОВ А TO-DAY VARITROTON VIEIT,

BAYS LE ESCHIT HUNTES STRADILY LEPROVED, AND HIS POSITION IS NOW PRORABLY

188C 88T

REPRODUCHION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICENS PROMIRITED!:

i Copy Ma

---

## Page 5

GiAN

76506

TRONGER TRAN AT ANY TIME BINCE HXS ELECTION IN 1960.

SINCE THE FIRST

OP THE YEAR, HR HAS SCORKD GAINS AT THI BXPENSE OP HIS: PRINCIPAL. OR.

PORENTS, THS BOST POWERPTI OF VED STAND WELL TO TER LEFT OF HIS AD-

WMSTRATTON AND HAS SO FAR MANAGED TO MAINTAIN CONSISTENCY IN HIs

POLICIE

11:

BRAZIL. //PESSIDNT GOULART LAS SUPTERED TO SERIOUS SSTRACKS

-TIS OVERUESLNINE OPPOSITION LA HIS REQUEST FOR A STATE OP

STECE WHICH FORCED RIN TO VITHORAW ITS REQUEST AND TIS CONGRESSIONAL

VOrS ASIAS AGAINST HIS AGRARTAN REPORA CONSTITUTIONAL AMBADERNT.

GOULANT®S SACKTRACKING IN THE PACH OF THR CONGHESSIORAL OP-

POSITION TO HIS INQUEST FOR A STATE OF SISCS REPREEENTS A SERIOUS PLOW

TO HTS ELATIONS VITH CONGRESS: THR FLOOR LEADER OF HIS OWN LABOR PARTY

TO ENTIC KAPLACKS AS A IRSULT OF HIS OPEN OPPOSITION TO THE ESCURST.

BRASH TA COMINI

T8 THAT

CHR OF D7889

WITH

SAUTION 1E

FIC PANTE

ONLY IT OFFH

POCTAT

TOER TO DISCUSS A802

T00 sip

BRANDA

81BC

X*1

---

## Page 6

• 17-19917.8

CLASSIGIO MESSAOR

BBCKET

R0L15.100A

•: tis flui.

want moan tones 4

JERRAK:

INFO

PAGE -B- OF 8'

NID • BY

CANT FURITE,

ALMOST MINANA LOT TO MES POIN OF POSTED AN TRISOLATS MRIBAT TO HIM.

IN ARRIVINE AT HYS CENCZUSION TO VITEDRAY HIS ARGUEST POR A STATE

OF SIBES, COWLAET TUEST TO ITS LEFTIST MOTHER IN LAY LBONEL BRIZOLA

POR ADVICE, ACORDIRO TO A DEGALLY BELTARS CLANETINE SOURCE. TET

SORELY BOTRO THAT COLLAR SOLO BAT TROLING APPRALS POR

ETERNA FROL VANCO COYSATOR, MATORA, AND GTUROT AND TRACE Y

UNIONS AS A VOTE OF CONZIUISICS DID THAT COLLART SHOULD CONCSISTRATE

ON DRANTIC SIR CUPOET OR THE POPULAR FORCESS

PI CORSETST HIGUKLY, ARRARS, GOVERNOR OP PERMANSOCO, HAB

ALTRADT WURLICLY PROCLATHED COLLATE'S ACTION AS A VICTORY FOR THR

ADBINO TO COLLART O LOES IS DISSATISPACTION IN TIS MITAN

BETABLE OVER VAR HUNTETER BIBBIRO'S HANDLING OF TES LEGIETIOR

TAB STATE OF SIECE THE US ARIY ATTACS HAS SEEN A LETTER FROM THE ARKY

CHISY OF STAY TO BYSSIBO IN WIICE iT CASTIGATES fER VAR MINISTER POR

NOT SAVIG DISCUSSED THE SITUATION BITH MILITARY LEADERS PRIOR TO

OSCIO COLLART TO SSEX A STATE UP SIEGE 1!

WAS DACES ANOHATEU.

---

## Page 7

SECRET

-.---*

76506

I2. BRAZIL://BAY TRIAGO DANTAB, A RAJOR BRAZILIAN pOLITICAL. PIGUES,

FAS TOLD 18 AMABBADOR CORDON THAT IN IS HOER PRESINISTIC ABOUT BRAZIL

THAN AT ANY TIN SENCE COULANT CAME TO POURE TWO YRANS AGO.

DANTAS, WHO WAS DOTE FORBIGN AND FINANCE MINISTER IN GOULART'S

CABINST, SAID THAT. VEXLE PLEASED VITE THE " WITHDRAWAL OF THE STATE OF

BICH NECURET. EX TELT THAT TER EPISODE HAS FURTHER UNDERHINED CON-

ANTICE IN TAZ VIABILITY OP THE SIXS INSTITUTIORAL STRUCTURE OF TIE

DOUNTEL

I BELIEVES TT BAS LAID THS BASIS POR PURTHER POLARIZATION O

POLITICAL OPINION

ANITAS THINKS TRAT THS PRIECIPAL MASON GOULART WITHDREN THE

GUST JAS THS MASTVS OPPOSITION FROM THIS SO CALLED POPULAR FORCES,

EY VICHE ANT LIFTIST KITRISTS HO PROBABLY FELT THAT TEE STATE

07 BIBER LEGAT POSED TO TAOS ACTION ACATIST TESS (BUO) //

TOCOPEATIS LATIN AMERICA -

RORALIGAID STATES:

OF TIRES ENTOURAGE CONSIDER THAT HIS IRCRIT VISITS TO BRAZILS CHIL,

AND BOLIVIA TERS PATLORES, ACCORDING TO A OBUALLY, ELIARLE CLANIRSTISE

SOURCE. TASY METE STABILY FLBASKO CY HIS SIEUR ANGROIX EECEPTION SE

MEXICO, HOURVER, APPARSTLY DECAUSE OP THE CONSIDERADLY LARGER PUPLIC

TUMOVE TITO SEPORTSTL: CAUSED SOIL CONSTERATION AMONG DELEGATES

SACHET

---

## Page 8

ROUTIN

SECR

CONT

INA

PAGI OF 8

Clik Dix 76506

POOS TIS MORALIN STATES AT TIE UN DY HIS SENS IN LATIN ABRICA

THAT THE CONCITY OF FLOCS AND NORALIGIRD STATES HAS INEY SUDED

BYA/DEN DIVIBION OR THE TORRA XITO STAY BORTIE POR MIRACS IL CO

EXISTESCE" AND THOSE AGAINST IP./!

14. TER LATIN ALCEICAN PREB TRADE ASSOCIATION:

THS LATIN

ABRICAN PIRE TRADE ASSOCIATION (LAPTA) IS CURRENLY tH SARSION TO

COTIATE A ZUR THINO BOUND OF TARITY RSNUCTTONS O INTRA- ENGIORAI

TRIES, THE LATTA THRATT RAVISAGES THE LIMINATION OF PARTYPE ON

SUBSTANTTALLY A INTRA-HSCORAL CUNKH COMRACE. BY 1972 AND INDICATES

MAT DE THIS VILL AS A STEP ZESIARD THE SVANTUAL FORSATION OR A

CONTIRRNTAL CONSON MARKET. THE PROSPECT RAS NOT ONLY STIRED THE

IINGIVATIONS OF SCOMOMISTS AND SUSINESSMEN: IT HAS SPARKID TEE INTRIES.

OF POLITICAL RADERS, MHO PERCEIVE POSSIELLITISS OR DIVE OPING LAPTA

ABA PORCE POR EXTENDING LATIN AMERICAN INFLUENCE IN WOrLD

REX CONCILS

END-OF MESSAGR

REPRODUCHION BY GUNER

Tallen 1/40011

Cinor. Noi

---

