# 104-10102-10189

## Page 1

104-10102-10189|

COI

oilF

3._d

LOSSIHIGATAON

SECRET

MESSAGE MAN ILIAGINDICATOR

DCI

0

0

11. 0, 96

3037337

INFO: FILE e/IT/DIMS,

p/01153,

c/o1 2,

т0 :/

PRIORITY FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION WHA

ATTENTION: INTD-CI/3

927567

DISSEM 3Y: Z7

P5A 507

7145

#132

8. П/EUR

3. 0/EA

1/HEAF

CIR-316/01466-77

vertal

SUBUECT: RESPONSE TO FBI, REQUEST CONCERNING VECIANA'S RELATIONSHIP

WITH CIA

I. WITH REGARD TO YOUR REPORT OF YOUR INTERVIEWS ON & AND II

APRIL 1977 WITH FELIX ZA BAL A MAS AND TO YOUR ORAL QUESTIONS

TO US CONCERNING STATEMENTS MADE BY HIM ABOUT VECIANA IN

THOSE INTERVIEWS, THIS AGENCY HAS REVIEWED ITS FILE ON ANTONIO CARLOS

VECIANA BLANCH. AS STATED TO YOU ORALLY AT OUR MEETING ON 13

APRIL 1977- THIS AGENCY HAS NEVER HAD A CONTRACTUAL RELATIONSHIP WITH

VECIANA. ACCORDING TO OUR RECORDS, VECIANA CONTACTED

THIS AGENCY ON THREE OCCASIONS TO DISCUSS HIS PLANS TO ASSASSINATE.

FIDEL CASTRO. ON THESE OCCASIONS, OUR OFFICERS LISTENED TO

VECIANA BUT EXPRESSED NO INTEREST IN AND OFFERED NO ENCOURAGE-

MENT TO HIM AND NEVER RECONTACTED HIM ON THIS MATTER. THESE CONTACTS

OCCURRED IN HAVANA IN DECEMBER, 1950, AND IN NEW YORX CITY IN JULY

1962 AND APRIL 1956. THERE ARE NO INDICATIONS IN THE FILE THAT:.

DATE:

ORI6:

UNIT:

EXT:

ÜLAJDINICATILM

SECRET

COONDIMATINO JAMCARS

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMISITED

chin reply

I inat-request

AUTMHYTCATINO CARICKN

= 2

IMPDET

CL

BY:

11.2074

13/01

---

## Page 2

JUNGUING MESSAGE

SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY

co,

ACH

TOO

0

+HO

oCI

PACK

OMF D

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

MASSAGE MAMOLING INDICATOR

0

CONF:

INFO: FILE

crra

CIA

027649

MASBACE HENRYNCE PURER

DISSEM 9Y:

NO INORI

PER

CAF ANY AGENCY OFFICER IN CONTACT WITH VE CI AN A EVER USED

ALIASES OF MORRIS BISHOP, BLAIR OR KAIL; OR IBF ANY AGENCY OFFICER

IN CONTACT WITH VECIAN A WAS NAMED BISHOP, BLAIR OR KAIL:

ACCORDING TO OUR RECORDS, VECIAN A •NEVER RECEIVED ANY FUNDS

FROM THIS AGENCY.Y

Z. AGENCY OFFICERS WHO SERVED IN HAVANA REMEMBER THAT THERE

WAS A MAJOR OR COLONEL KALE ORKAIL IN THE MILITARY ATTACHES

OFFICE IN THE U.S. EMBASSY PRIOR TO THE BREAK IN RELATIONS. ALSO,

ONE OF OUR OFFICERS IN HAVANA WHO LEFT THERE IN THE SUMMER OF 1959

HAD THE FIRST NAME OF BLAIR.Y

3.. SECRET/WARNING NOTICE - SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND

METHODS INVOLVED/NO FOREIGN DISSEM. CLASSIFIED BY 012034. EXEMPT

FROM GENERAL DECLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE OF E.O, 11S5Z EXEMPTION CATE-

GORY 5862}. IMPOSSIBLE TO DETERMINE DATE OF AUTOMATIC DECLASSIFICA-

TION.N

LA COMMENT: FBI OFFICIALS HAD PROVIDED

COPIES OF THe

DEBRIEFINGS OF

ZABALA MAS AND HAD ORALLY REQUESTED CIA COMMENTS RE THE AGENCY'S RELA-

TIONSHIP WITH VECIANA.

• DATE:

2RI5:

"IT:

"Coates serican

DEDRODUCTY

СВОРПІМАТІНа ПАРІСЯ!

EY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PRRA

ET

AUTMANTICATIMO ORACAT

13101

---

## Page 3

OUTGOING - MESSAGE

AU&

SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY

+C0

0

0

SIFICATION

ECRET

MESSAGE MANDLING INDICATOR

0

0

MHO

DATE-TIME G HOUP

100a

ocI

3

MESRAGE MEFERENCE NUMBER

tITE

CIA

4D8)

DISSEM BY:

CONF:

INFO:

FILE

027669

0

0

PETUAN TO

PER

CABLE SEC: PLS PROVIDE COPIES TO IP/AN FOR. FILING IN

201-312966

AND 201-802841°

ORIG: LA/COG/EXILE

1X13253; COORD: C/LA/COG C/LA/COG1

C/LAVOPS EREDINE, AGCIDDO EGODIN DI CI/OG FERIEDLANDEA, SA/DOLO

ti AUTH: AC/LA ELKUNEFT; REL: C/PCS/LSN StavenL Kuha

fered on

0 ATE:

neir..

29 APRIL 1,977

UNRACE TOFEDERCH

SALIA, CUR

1. Piscina des (i chiag

tata..

Per inatt!

13/01

---

