# 104-10179-10134

## Page 1

104-10179-10134

IT+ X 221-239218

SECREL

ROUTING

TO ''DIRECTOR TE

• FROM ":

PARIS

ACTION:

SAS Ô (SAS NOTIFICO AND COPY SLOTTER AT 1735 19 JN DD)

RETERN TO CIA

INFO :

DOP, 68, CL/OPS, CI/OA, FI, RI/AN, ME A NAS 7, S/C. 2

Mad i ee cart Merica

Background Use Only

MAISHED.*

IN63271

SEC

RET!

77272

APRITY DIR INFO PRITY MAOR SJAN VAVE ROUTINE BRUS CITE PARI 9868

RET A PARI 0808 (IN (01964)

1:9 JUN 1963

B PARE 9849 NOT SENT SUAN BRUS LIN (03094)

1• RAY CONTACTED BY JERVAY & UNDER IDEN A ALIASS 1T

AND 18

CON SETAI

JUNE IN ADDITION CONTACTS REPORTED PARA ONE PARI 8824

APAY NAS

ALSO BEEN IN CONTACT UNRUMBLE 6. UNPAPIST, AND AT LEAST ONE COM

TACT WITH AMSPORT SO RAY DESIGNATEO UNRUMBLE 6 AS HIS CONTACT

MAN PARI® JERVAY NOT INTRODUCED BUT WILL CONTACT SHORTLY STA

FEELS THIS IS 8000 MOVE SINCE CUNTUMBLE 6 APPEARS BE

GOOD MAN AND

HAS APPROACHED DNA IN PAST SEPARATELY FROM UNRUMBLE 2 WITH SOME

• INTERESTING PLANS. STA DID "NOT APPROASH HIN DIRECTLY IN PAST

BEAUSE DID NOT MANT TO DISTURA RELATIONSHIE VITH RUMSLE 2.

CORATOLE 2 VILL NEVERTHELS DE VICTING USUMBLE & CURRENT

PELATIONGNZDO NOT VAS DRIVEN AIM SY ALENO DIE

UNGE RAY SPENT MUCH TISE UND UHO BLENS DE CLOSEST TO MAN ANONG

DIe CONTACTE PARISS

on cor parts over utens,

CONTINUE MONITOR DEVELOPN HES

ICPRODUGTONEY OTHER.

AHRA

THE

FICE 19 P

SOMOTES

NATION.

д/р)

---

## Page 2

1d-0d0d

OLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

IN

63₴

- rAGE 2.

ARJU RAY SELTEVES CABRERA WILL VORX ON ARCOS BUT SAYS MAN WHO

•COULD REALLY DO THE JOB IS ARCOS UNCLE NHO IN PUERTO RICO AND

KNOWN TO RAY ME COULD NOT REMEMBER NAME OR EXACT RELATIONSHIP.

dUI PLANS CONTACT MIM ON RETUMN AND GROOM MIM FOR TASK. RAY ASKED

BE INFORMED WHEN ARCOS RETURNS BRUS.

A KUBARY STAFFER CIDEN 8) OF CONGRESS OF CULTURAL FREEDOM

BET RAY AT LEAST TWICE. EXCELLENT RAFPORT. ME ARKANGED RAY'S

PRESS INTERVIEN VITH GUILLO CO AULINS (INCORRECTLY REPORTED

IN PARA FIVE PARI 89478

SE LE MONDE. ALSO ARRANGED DINNER S

JUNE. WAS NONCOMMITAL BUT ENCOURAGING ABOUT JOB POSSIBILITY FOR

FRANQUI, SHOULD HE DEFECT.

SO RAY SEEMS TO BE CONFIDENT FRANQUI WILL JOIN HIS CAMP IN

NOT TOO DISTANT FUTURE AND RELYING ON CABRERA TO CONTINUE WORK

B ON SEANS PARO SO GOT SEE SO LANS PROCEED A ONE LINES

DIR A8158 AND PARI 9067J NOT SENT SUAN BRUS).

POSSIBLE REFERENCE

TO GUEDE TALK VITH FRANQUI IS IN& JUNE

Сивок.

MARIO SPRESUMABLY

THIRO SECY MARIO GRACIA VARELA CALLED FROM THE EXHIBITION SAYING

"THAT SOME ANTI-CASTRO ELEMENTS WERE ABOUT AND THAT FRANQUE ASKED

FOR SOME MORE PEOPLE FRON THE EVASS

L4 TO BE AROUND THE EAHIEITION

ALSO 12 VEINE UNSIERRA (ORS

Aru: is (com

ENTS TO UNSNATU. 16 THAT

*SOME "GUSANUS" VERE AT THE PHOTOBRAPIZE EXHIBITION AND THE FRENCH

COLICE VENT: BY CUBAN ENS TO ASK IF THEY SHOULD GUARD THE EKHIBIT.

NOVEVER HIS LATTER PROUNDLY NOT REFERENCE TO SUEDES DERER THAN

DILS STA MES NO INDICATION TRANQUI MIS TALKED ARONT ARERONE

TO BEN

BAY TEELS TOUP EURORE WAS VERY PROITABLE DEPTE PReT

HE HAS NO FIRE COMMETIHENT EBOX FRANQUIS CABRERA OR ARCOS NE

a Sara

---

## Page 3

RUSSIFICO MESSAGE

SECRFT

IN 63371 PAGE 3

• BIG,SECHS CONFIDENT THEY VILL JOIN MIM EVENTUALLY. NE FEELS HE NAS

TISHTEVED UP AND INSPIRED HIS "ORGANIZATION" PARIS. SAYS HAS

GAINED AMPRESSION FROM TALKS VITH CUBANS HERE THAT DISILLUSION-

MENT AYONG CUBAN EMBASSIES AND OFFICIALS INSIDE CUBA HAS GROWN

CONSIDERABLY. RAY CONVINCED IT POSSIBLE TO OVERTHROW CASTRO

CLEANLY AND SIMPLY WANTS DEVOTE OUN APPARATUS TO IDENTIFYING

DISAFFECTED ELEMENTS IN CUBA AND BUILDING UP SUPPLY APPARATUS IN

•AND OUTSIDE CUBA TO SERVE THEY

Bo RAY ASKED FOR FOLL

A• UP TO DATE LIST OF PERSONNEL AND ADDRESS OF ALL CUBAN

EMBASSIES IN EUROPF, TO BE PASSED HIM IN SUAN AND UNRUMBLE & IN

PARIS. HE WANTS BEGIN MAILING PROPAGANDA AND LETTERS TO STIMU®

LATE FURTHER DISAFFECTION •ERSONNEL®

& TRAINING OF HIMSELF IN SUAN AND UNRUMBLE & PARI IN

IDENTICAL SU SYSTEM WHICH THEY CAN USE FOR CORRESPONDENCE BETVEEN

SJAN AND PARI AND ALSO INTO CUBA. STA FELT BOTH THESE IDEAS

SHOULD BE ENCOURAGED AND RAY WAS TOLD COULD BE DONE. WOULD

APPRECIATE HOS PROVISIAN OF ITEM Á AND DESIGNATION OT SU SYSTEM.

CO RAY ALSO ASHED WE LINE UP JOB FOR CABRERA AS EUROPE REP

SUME PAPER AS DISCUSSED VITH MAUMAN PER PARI B94T, VOULÉ APPRI-

CRATE MAS FOLLOWUP ON THIS

• FILL ONE SOLTO ACOONPLISIENT OY NAME TRIP WAS RELE

TONINENT-OF VORKENS MELATION DED RNS BELIEVE HE MET IT ONE

APPORT WHICH MAT ALLENTATE B04S

SUNT DOHE PAST PROBERNS NUBA

RELAFIONSHIP

IC.. INDER

C/S CONCERTO DRAY DEPARTINO PART NE O1S ARIVINO NY 1300 MOUS 10 20

SECRET

C SECRET

---

