# 104-10216-10094

## Page 1

104-10216-10094

...

K2I-=344

NOV

$ 1955

TO:

Diseat

Fodorul Dureau of Inmotipation

Ittontions is. 9. Jo Papich

Corsity Dirootor, Moms

SUBJACT! I. LYINg DAVIDSCH

MICROFILMED

MAR 15 1961

COCUMENT MICROFILM SERVICE I

The Inforsation contained herela represents i mising'or tha

statemnts mie by Dublect in the course of the five seetings Ilsted

above, as vall as the observations of the ageney's representative.

3. Lato in Saly 1955, H111101 GOIDPRO, UnO 1a en offlear or tho

"City Center Aviation Supply Corpeny, 503 Arch Stroet, Piladelphie.

Fensylvala, offico talophone Walmit 24216, hose telophone D'Irity

7d, 313, called on subfoot.

At that tine Subjoot was in the market

for aviation parta for the hosla lar II P-51 type planes, some of shiel

are ted by the Meregun Air Force, GOLDRiTC knew of a forthoosing

suctim of Pil insta that ves to be hold in Middlotos, Femylvenia.

thair conversation 1t dovelopod that COLDESPO ban sold lation supplian

to lugoslavia for sovoral Joers and that se a rosalt of these petititles

he socolved en Invitation to v1s1t lugoslenle as a purst of the Iuposlay

Govermant, At the tine GODILRO vialted Subject he lad allegedly Just

returzed fren hla visit to lugoslavla, "hile In TUPOSlEVIa COLDERS BAN

& good doal af one Jeter, MRAIDIAC, a former lugosley Asslatant Halltary

tourist ageney.

to the taited statos for the purpose of opening a jutnil travel agency

In lew Tort CIty. MIAIDIEL ande 1$ olear to GOMESIC that be 1a

oparating on a suall budget and offered GOLDBERG a part interest la the

"de an ins

200-41581

---

## Page 2

14-00000

11.

' it suicide do thaterian

-2.

do This errorent, a choto cosy of which in attacher, epolla

out the conitonts of both Putrik end coldRand.

ID LE GOLDETRO a

remisod a courission of 5 per cont in l.. dollars of nil the U.9

ol Canarlen brainese handled by the Heu Jork City office of Putni

during the perlod of one year, In exchenpe for uhich GolDiere la to

rent and fully equip a travel offioe in a coverlent loontion in

How lort city, callind is to pay the ront for one your, surply

the naceusary furniture nod a talentone, end, in sadition, pay a

monthly salary of 400 to a sorosentatito of futnik, sent by them

to Now Jar's for the purpose of operating sald travel afflos, This

agreesent, valid for on your, does not give CaNE'RO ery volce in

the snarerent of the travel reenay.

An Intorestler, espoct of thia

"contreet" ls that it to purportedly aloned by the direotar of hrtntk,

ho sinaturo, though 11logible, bore a striking resemblance to the

signature of MTIAID DID as 16 appeers on hia amplication for an enta,

visa to the lulted states, as sulnitted to the United states Consulato

la Belgrade In the sumer of 1955, oven to the eyes of one who la not.

= tostnieal expert in the field of handuriting.

Iot, in Ilo visa

appliention end in tallding to COLlEND and later to Subjoat, MHADIN

stated thet bo le the Chier of the foroln istlaion of Putnth, end

never implied that ho la the Director of Futnik,

So GODETO pointed out to subleet that he vas not pertloularly

Interestod in entering Into my trevel arranparent vith Putrik, but,

at the seme time, he dons not vent to offend the lugoslavo, sinoe be

hms bon doing buninena vith them for several yous and vishes to ou

Im the association. On the other hand, he said that this travel

mooslation night be a hertive undertaiding and that 1t would after

him a shance to mke purely business contacta with Arrican businesamen

Intrrested in enteging in comerolal dealings idth lugoslavie.

Inassach

a Subfoot has Intereste end connestions in the travel field,

GOLDEERO

uggested to his that the tue of them oould jointly understite the egree

nt as proposed by rutatk. Subjest wa intereated bert wished to b

anured thnt there world be no objeotion on the pert of Putalk to his

assoolation with GOLIAC. Ne therefore spole to MIRAIDINC by tolo

phone and sun assured that such an arrangement van aceuptable to Putatie

(HIRAID IREC hed arrived 1s the United Statos prior to the than that

GOLDBERO frut contected Subjeot end una reportedly andous to establlet

the traval agency as soon as practicable.)

6, 1$ t11s point tubfoot said be realizod that Putnik le an

affielal agency of the Tuposlay Goverment on that any Anerfoon asse

olated vith it in the Inited States would heve to register with the

Departzent of suntloo as a representative of a fornign goverment.

+**

---

## Page 3

4-00000

and bustin?

-3.

Inmuch as hisoslevia lo a Corruniat country, Subject faured that

being associntal in a businosa venture with Yuroslavla ripht not

be in his boat intoresta. Ho therefore asked the edvice ol jeck

Portians AIDIRiON, uho shoros his suite of offloes in vestington

and sto, subject neys, is a lias'intos roprencatative of Preede

mpasino and a lOt In fOr DreW lEISCT, ADISO urad Subjeot

to ask this Apency for guldance. To thia ond IT INSCl arranged

for rubjoot to contret a serber of tile lrency end present his

is a rosult of thie nosting, subjoot wes boen erain by

another representative of thin Agency to whom Subject seld ho would

exiline the Atnik offer in preater detail bofore comittine hiralf

an at the sete time toop thie igoney irforual al the devolo arts.

• To Subfoot contacted PRAID on theres different occas tons,

the first tine In How York City on 4 October, the sosond and third

case in lashinton on 11 October.

Subjeet alao spoke to HIMAIDI EC

a number of tinas batucen these metings by tolephone.

Ta addition

to Booing MIAMIt, Schject also not and spole with Seepun NATIBIVE,

Diraator of the furoslav Stete lowist Nice,

24 state Stroot, now

Tart he hones telephone MAnovar 25850, and with volialent OPaVIC,

associated with MATIJASIVIC in tbe Yurosler State Touriat Ofrice.

Acoording to subjeet, the glat of there natings end the varlous

tolephone conversations la ra falloses

In attoupting to seertain just what MILAID DEC

bad in mind in the way of a travel arenoy and how Subjeet

enuld benefft fron his associstion with said agency,

Subjeet learned that nAIl evidently has a time

Iialt In which to set up the trevol agency and show a

degres of suovesa in 1ta optation in order to recolv

• Increase in his operating badget in 1956. It would

appoar that MADIE la operating on a very small

budget and le anger to flad sor financial beeling at

Joant imt1l be can make a sucoese of his venture. Voan

Subfoet questioned the need for a traval aguney operated

by Putati, sines a officel Yngosley State Tourfat Orffen

"Subfoet stated that MAIDINEd told hin that Putalt le a private company

and that NATIJASSTID added that 1t von sirilar to the Itallan C. I.T. travel

agonsy, Subject ended that he personally bellevus it to be a govarment

conoors, but that he did not pursue the subfeat with MIlLING and

NATISEVIL®

!

ROSCIN CONTINUED CONTROL

1

---

## Page 4

14-00000

whaross the offloial uselay Goverent Tourist Office

1o In faot an informntlas offloo and not engaged in the

trevel hainess.

Therefore, both these offloes are

Interosted In establishing

the Nitrik travel egency an

moon as possible, and they both have boen discussing

this problas vita subioot end GOIDIaI.

Do Jubisct it first thought that the whole deal

wes Bonething plennod by MElilIct fuT to purpose

of obtaining money for his om parsonal use iitbout

the knowledpe of hia home off100.

After speating to

both HivIres en M/LISTIC, sahiset concladad

that no dishonesty was intonded and thet the tio son

business.

of the proposod joint undertenine

subjeet concluded

that he did not dosire to get involved la supporting

the now agendy as proposed by HADIBe, but he dia

think thet Yuporlaria should lanch a mbllo roletiona

campolen in the laltod states, bullt around the openios

of a traval sponcy. subject therefare docided to

roodnend to too luzoctavs that ho, or some ones

publlo relations expert, bo hired to publiolse

Tugoslavials torriat attratione to the Anorlous.

This, bo felt, could beat be done by opening a

traval agonay on lew Yorkin FLith Avema vith a

cocitall party and a blase of publlolty, with

Invitations sent to the Chief of the lugoslav Dost at

the State Dopertant, the Mayor of How York, trevel

and pross ropresentatives, and othere.

the travel

agenoy soald be starfed to handle rublielty roleanes,

ansver questions, and in general handle uny aspecte

of travel that would be fortbooking. le almo reoc

marded that NEADDY, travel thronghout the United

States and Cenada for the purpose of saling ootaota

ulta the ragonlar colordes In both countrles.

subjeet

said that Yugoslavia would soon reap a terfold benarit

nou er are aboat to receive in the mar future.

ü...

MOCRN CONTINUED CONTROL

72:-

285157837-

---

## Page 5

14-00000

Subjeet Bald that HAIDING, HIT LASAYIC Pad 10F CHIC

(the lest nanod acting, as to spatossan for the threa

during thair last meting with Subjoot), wrood fully

with him tut pointed out that ery undertaker of thia

type ves boyonl their fiold of interest, an they had

molther the reans nor the nuthority to enrage la such

a capest.

Fut es rubjoct did not wish to enter into

may other collaboration uith than, they agreed to make

1t possiblo far hia to neot sith Yugoslay Asbessedor

Ioo lATIs and outline hia ideos for a piblie relctions

campaign,

Subfoot ls convinoed that be vill be able

to convinoe Ambessador MIT'S of the soundace of his

proposition and thet MATES ulll then sponsor his 1a

Belgido, saling it possiblo for subject to obtain

the baoking of the Jugoslm Goverment as sll Por

this plass.

8. Subject made it aleur that he did not heve the rey with whleh

to undertake even the sort of business arrangement RELID INC bed origi

mally proposed and that he intlally contacted thin irensy for the purpore

of obtaining finencial beckine, in exchange for ery Infernation that be

alght bo able to obtais through the travol agony, leter, so lie discussed

the problem with the Iuralavs and with his contacte in the Rationel

Association of Travel Omanizations, be docided that, mless he conld

contine the Yugoslars that they should engure in publialzing lugoslanta

through a rubllo relations campaims, he would drop tar matter complotely.

At firat be said that 1t night porhaps be nocensery for him to underrita

tha proposed publicity carmain for the first sir sonths in order to

carvinos the Ingoslave of the value of such a campaten. He felt sure

that after such a sir sanths trial period the Iufoslave sould be on

Tooed of the value of his sahane and sould not anty take over fron that

Apal, as he does not

Agency would be willing to underwrite the empenses in return for any

Internation that could be obtalnod through the travel offled.

adition, subjoct pronised to return said inwetwat, which he thial

nonid run to 415, 000 to 420,000, as soon as the Infoslava repald him.

He also made it eloer that he would be willing to step solde and let

thin Agoney assfen the job to soneone olse of its choosing 19 1t van

Palt that this would be the boat say to handle the utter. In the end

Subfect said he sen convineed that he really would not be salled upon

to underurite eny of the expenses, but the wished to know what he could

expect, just in case he did soad sona money.

---

## Page 6

14-00000

Subjeot vas informad that imanch as his plane oall for hin to

pabloise & foreign govorment in the United States, this iguacy wouid

molthor gira hin finmelal assistance nor influence in any way bla personal

decision in the matter. Subjoct stated that he understood this Ageasy's

position. He ralaed the quastion of being briefed regarding shat ho abould

look for, Bhould he be invited to lugoslavla by the lurs ley Gonerant 1n

commotion vith the proposod mblloity campalen. le una informed tat hia

question was not pertinant as thare roally was no vey of lucing 1f vuch an

invitation would over be forthconing.

10, Subjoct a office 1a 121, Hyntt Fulling, 717 Ith Street, 1.1,

bashingran, calaphone District 1- 3600.

This is a suite consinting of a

good aise anto room and two suall orpices.

w1th James J. WARRIS,.

Booording to subjeat,

, TAR IS 1a a forzar state Depertmet employee.

PARRISS 1a not listed in the telephone boot, but one la, Opel/PAPRIS 10

Ilstod at 3520 18th Street, Solo, Yelophono Mason 3-5380 M118 18

ventloned beonse Subjact share, with his snoo annociatos, e socrater

nose firat name 1a Opal, ADITSCH and ALUMaTIAL are the Washingter

representativen of Iraig sagesino, but seon to be using the joint offloo

only occasionally, They heve a separate telephone line, DIstriet Yu,325.

ANDEFS ON GAl PUNITIAL gONaLlY USe PARISS' rOOM uen thay are on the

pruises.

Il. to farture cantect with sabfoot la contamplated.

@ C1 3336

Enolouros Acrosmont botreen Prtatk and MIllen GOIDIO

28 October 1955

•SE/TI/Yuro

Potra

Distribution:

Original & 1 - FBI (w/I encl.)

11 - FI/RI (w/1 enci.)

CI Staff

fond food freed

-

SE/RI (1/1 encio)

1

SE/FI/R

- SEY

SOMET

NGFORM CONTINED CONTROL

201-41581

---

