# 104-10067-10029

## Page 1

104-10067-10029

MEMORANDUM FOR:

Ire -üurbitts

ifco

shepanek

Me: Lintel

"Attached ãre copies of the rBI inmorandun citaà

in ths Jack Anderson columns of 23 and 21 Octobor 178.

It was in the Agoney in the course of the Chinch Com

ittee inquiry, for consideration of its sanitization

and release to the Comattree

#scords do not make it

cloar just what happened at that time.

It would assume

that it was handled in the confines of that investigatio

und that the paper did

not find its way into othor CIA

regords.

We are advised that the four pages_comprise

the entire nomorandum (there are som- duplications oi

the first page that show certain actions (presumably

within the Bureau)

It Division is no: considering the tomorandun for

possible declassification.

S. Do Breckinridge

Date

30 Octobar 1978

FORM

5-75

'101

USE PREVIOUS

EDITIONS

---

## Page 2

14-00000

UNCLASSIFIED

INTERNAL

• ONLY

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

CONFIDENTIAL

U SELKI

SUBJECT: (Optionaig

FROM:

N.A. : Shepanek

2B-1415

Assnt to the SA/DDO

TO:

• (Officer designation, room number, and

building).

DATE

RECEIVED

DC/LA Division

•Attn"

i: MI•

Warren

EXTENSION

9018

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

FORWARDED

Warren

NO.

add I list

DATE

18 May 1976

COMMENTS (Number each comment lo show from whom

to whom.

Draw a line across column ofter each comment.)

FOR ACTION

Attached

are three, batches

of third agency

documents

for clearance

for: eventual

passage to the

:3..

LA Division

Attn': Mr. Sturbitts

11254

4..:

2A2:

18

18 s

# 7,48, 19

6.

@LAlCOG 19

OGC/ZiBbisN

2B44

Steparet

10.

12

13.

14.

15.

FORAA

3-62

610 UsE

PREVICUS

EDITIONS

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 3

14-00000

C1A Exilis Staff

hig

stive- attached fo access,

SSe

Cereas luncheted i red are of luterect to you..

Pes Antinene anything you want Delite en

Thanno

Andy Nuffin

-....

...... ........

•"**

-.....

-------------

....

-..-.-

.... ......... . .......-......-

i--i----

---

