# 104-10146-10120

## Page 1

104-10146-10120

ONADENTIA!

OLC 79-1036

2 April 1979

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Domestic Collection Division/DDO

FROM

: S. D. Breckinridge

SUBJECT

: Quebec Separation Movement

1. I was in Wilmington, Delaware, on Saturday attending a

meeting of an cranization to which hive known for see members

of the group,

who I have known for several years,

approached me concerning intormation a friend of his has on the Quebec

separation movement.

and. he belleyes that the

vER vation as trend has would be or interest to spree the is

with ramifications of the Quebec separation group. He says that nis

friend has contacts with radical members in inner circles of the group.

3.

has suffered some sort of injury to his spine, and has

been a semi-invalta in recent years, so I do not know his current

employment status.

He is a graduate of Toronto University in Canada,

and his wife is Canadian. His source was a classmate at Toronto U.,

a retired major now in charge of the school's alumni program. This

alumni work has brought him in contact with a wide range of persons,

apparently out of which has come his contacts and this information.

I gather that he does not want to tell it to official Canadians,

but seems concerned with what he knows and feels that it should be reported

to someone in official U.S. circles.

4. I told 05.

that I would report his willingness to speak

with Agency,

cepresentatives, but that I could not say

that he would be

contacted.

can be contacted as follows:

Gel: (215) MU8-1559]

VaTley Forge & Maplewood doads

Wayees.

Connsylvania

193%3

His friend can be identified by address as follous:

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

tert M. Pennington

18 doll Royal Court:

Esslington

22502

Toronto, Canada

S. D. Breckinridge

DENTAL

---

