# 104-10247-10060

## Page 1

104-10247-10060

RETURNTO GIA

Background Use Only

DO NOT Repreduce

DISPATCH

CLASETKIATICOS

КАРОК/SECRET

PROCESSING

Cose

Santiago; COS

COs.

LIFO

Montevideo; COSe

Buenos

Aires;

I 25B0!9 FOR 19:€1.48

Caracas

Chich,

THIL

FAOM

Deputy Chief, FI/SA LUFC, HES HARDUAAVI

Chief of Station, JUAVE

MESEOLANTTTS DESA

CAN ILOCE JADEXING

• ABSTRACE

і Встогі

SUBJECT

DYVOUR BRULEY Operational

Possible Utilization of AVICE-14 in Student Activities

ACTION REQUIRLO. REFCRENCES

Action Reguired: Request Station Interest and Conrents.

SUBARY. This dispatch contains a proposal for the re

location of a highly competent, trained, expertenced JuVAVE

ANICE-14,

to another iH area where he could be utilized

in student activities whilo comploting his educational credits

for a law degree.

Subject's effectiveness can no longer be fully

utilized In the. JMAVE area; 1t is proposed that his unique

training and qualifications may be of utilization to another

KUBARK Station.

JLVAVE Station is currently utilizing a principal agent,

AWICE-14, who appears to be particularly well-quallfied for use

In student activities in a Latin Arerican university.

has been a JWAVE agent since February 1963.

Prior to his being

recruited by the Station, he had nade ten clandostine trips into

In tho year and a ball since his recrufteent,

he has made

five more clandestine trips uncer Station direction.

ceivod extensive FI and PM training.

ile has recruited & number

of agents for the Station, both inside and outsida oi Cuba, up to

and including one high-ranking officer in the preseat Cuban

Covernnent.

He has shown outstanding ability ari initiative in

..Il these activities.

Unfortunaiely, A-14 is not su knowledgeable

of soveral interlocking operations currently in czing inside

Cuba, due to his direct participation in these projects,

JIT'AVE can no longer continue to allon A-11 to nake any

black infiltrations, despito his strong desire to continue doing

A-l& has been told that for the protection of the intornal

assets he must nake no furthor infiltrations.

Attachnents:

Mr90r4:0

SEP 25 1004

Training Report Dtd 20 Doc

Training Roport Dtd 18

licro for

PRQ Part I - USC - Att. 5.

L COC. MICRO. 523. 1

701-307337

DATE TUTED

DATE DISBATCIIED

18 Sept 61

SEP 23 1961

2 - COS/Duenos Aires

- COS/l'ontevideo T/atts.

COS/Caracas w/atts.

C/ill w/arts.

→ DC/VIl/SA w/atts.

RIPOK/SECRELU

5737

1. 19-6.54/2

1: 14-6-51/3

UrGi - 17794

201-307337

---

## Page 2

14-00000

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

GHASSIFIGATION

KAPOK/SECRST

C: 1779-1

Due to the above centioned restrictiors on A-14's

activitics, and to his strong rotivation to continue activoly

to participato in fighting Castroland Commuzis:s, 1t 1s fclt

that his createst contribution could be made in tho student

flold in Latin Acerica.

subject studied alacst four years at

the University of llavana, airing for a law degrec. It is cos-

sidered that he sould need at least two years sore of study to

obtain his degrec at another univeralty.

subject 1s of shito

Salsa extraction and night pass a3 a nativo of arothor Latin

He comes fron a forcerly well-to do educated farily

fros tho upper class of

Transaitted as Attach

ment #5, Under Separate Cover, is

a COpy Of PRO Part I On Sui

* MICE 14 has received the following training at JLYAVE:

FI Tradecraft. Tro 3-neei: full-tino sessiong with

TDY KUROAR instructor from Icadquarters®

B. Basic Pil to include nap and coupass, caching.

weapons (Browning 9r. pistol, 23 cal.

revolver,

I-3 SiG and Swedish """ Pistol, and FAL rifle),

patrolling, etc.

Origiral comical course early

10G3 and frequent ror-coher succiors since.

that Subject was not trained at ISOLATION or (SOrROPIC)•

Maritine. • Navigation, clanci-sine Laritine real

coption tochniques,

use of rictasce in, beacons,

safety equiprent, etc.,.

saall boat ka cling (fros 13'

Boston Whaler with singlo silent outbozzú to 17°

Tnaler with tula 75 cp. outboards to Y-?0).

two week basic cousse in early 1003 and frequent ro-

fresher sessions sir.co.

Secret Voiting.

Initial cousse di Instrustios Ius

refreshor sessions prior to each imiltration sitengt.

One-lay-Voice-Lin!: (OIVL) radio communicatisis.

Basic course plus reirosher prior to each incileration.

Pontar Caccra.

Ground Photography. One weak course iid-lso with

First Aid.

Casic ccurse early 1063 plus several

refresher sessions.

dithur project,

struction in doolitions in into 19s raile & somber

of a revolutionary or ciliation chica vic at tho tice

rocoiving assistance 12os iatri.

Traronitic:: 25

Attaohments #1, 22 dad 13 arE ticlalag ICOi:- On

11021: civing craluasions on his capabilitia, por

sonalily and leadership.

The dollowing 1s a drick'syropsis o: micuis onera-

tional

activities at Jaidts.

Fros the first successful runnin; of the doaü operatio. in

July 1ces through the fifth in larch 195% feir..

poctporcients ard suortive alterats because o..

Mitricultics with tic intcrucdiate Crait, eic.l,

Pictoracd tie folloring truis more Others tito accual 000r2-

conal C.ultiors lisids Cust:

recruited too jici-lovel trir

mcal dronis in Havora no Noll os purcrous ariort agence, both

i invans and in tho Mi. a laill/entiltontio

or she above-coattond M/is for trainine th the droth arca

! handled the successiul clanisitiuo ro-irilleration of uls

KAPOK/SEC.

---

## Page 3

CONTIIUAZION OF

DISPATCH

i'17794

•14

a70nt; aimraatod fOur JaiVE/FI agcnto sho vero beirs activoly

Jought by the Cien security

services fand since tie C'0sy

marleaded a cuall boat 125

rilco tro: ahe rorincin coast of

forced to cafiltrate prcuaturcly'cuba to tie tos. using only a

land coupres);

cxfiltrated one of the abovc-corioned a/is and

1.: ily tinich Ircluded 3 sall childron: and prout in to the

Ammi infil csilitiation arcz a cacho of 2701c icicly 200 15s.

of torpons and caplosive devices and arranged the orrard trans-

portation of the cache contents to lavana.

During this occration.

the toan was fired upon by a patrol boat at the infiltration

Tho tear roturned the fire, killing tro crew rebers .

tie patrol boat,

and escaped unlar-ed through an altcraate charno.

Thoro they raited out tho subsequent area alort and efiltrated

after caglacing the cache.

To acconplich the abore, iiICa-ls has

had to malto contact and rc-contact arrangesents, clardestine per-

sonal ucetings.and to coordinato the cfforts of a varicy of 1-

ternal support clcrents.. MICkle's principal duties as P/A 12 the

JIlAVE area have been:

spotting and developing nc: agent candi

catcs; deirloting of rofugecs Izo= the ATRUNi inf1l/csiiltration

assistirg the C/O to preparc S/li ecssages to existing

AulTuks Internal assets; assistiro in the training of ATUNE tea

nonbers; and assisting in the planning of subsequent AnTRUNK

operations.

Transnitted as Attachzent #? is an 2o-aoc.ent of AXICE-14

writton by his case officer in cly lici,

sortiy after i-le tas

first approached with the icea of posilly sovins to a la country

as a KUDiTk agent in aticont assivities.

ign the general

concept was initially broachiod 10 Inli, lo it dotaro to tha

to continue a .:ilo longer tith i claur activity

nope that he would be aiic.ed is rais ord tor infiltration.

In Soptember, 4-11 ac-opened this subjeer vita hiù cros ofiicer,

statire that he would lilo to bo corsilared for i trcrsior into

student activitics.

It has boon wad: Boriccily cises 1o 4-14 that

il such a transior voic to bo cir:ctca,

1p would to tiny bove to

so to thatevoi locality impind cisco, but that baccaiu dave to bo

entircly responcive to Musin. direction at that locrity.

has agreed to tiece stipulations.

It cacald bo point:. cos here

that then originally rccruitod ild nantcc it cicar tin. s vas

"torl:1ng titi,

not vorking 101" is.

mis nitituce i., rever

created a control probica,

licith iotic maiy contis c. tis

vor! it did necessituto carciul arnalis

for tir sast

ycar this attitude on his part has da:..

Secrete

::, $0

che polat that he cospictely asserts

dier cong.

ai. i

strong basis of mutual trust an comiccee tas

and his caso offici.

In to event Art

tis Casuad Covcr:: 32t

1s overthro:: and replaced by a. anti-courist Covarnaont,

LICC-14 can be expociod to a35.-: =

any not covorniert.

It 15 to:

a sabinot root withir the firi:

13:12.0

co2ch

sericontal

joct can lo maintained and strongincied tung any such corsibio

devolodient.

7.

Althorn. 2i ranit 200247 0%

.0913 :11:

"aLy

ciscly truo.

¡immi is a cognico-roiolutionary.

220d to. 27s

i: cistcon on, iu

cotivitics cindee cotstart?

mated, his costity,

nizied axond is cinost any tore Of Clacestir:

mcianity.

will trazaoi 1a 110 7I Lick. is tic 21.

-üy concious l has the anilityto rotain

"slow couragi, of boing able

i: closest operatical associatce.

It is ar.noied that acoccsoco Statiot wiiod Ji t18 26

10 their intercot in uillizir.

munacos of Subjunü in their aoa in studuit activitics.

Sibject

PAGEÃO

UIS PREVIOUS EDITION.

3.

---

## Page 4

14-00000

CONTiNUATiON OF.

DiSPAICiA

ELPOR/SECRET

rould be equally good la overt arpaginia cotirsties,

ants- Cc--

-urist stuccat orgari--tics,

stucent goo--squas

activitics,

the cricotion of covori spotti-s and recruitirs in ite university.

Saggers ecula not possibay bass as procasiao for tua purpose of

kinsol infiltratios a Castroarionted studgat 5r0u2; a chect of

his baciground in citbos Cuba or tio JiVE area roald Tercily

indicaic ha ras violertly anti-castro.

Lorover, the Station be-

Iloves that subject's esplogot by lual 1s jagua to yosy leg

cisor Cubaro in this area.

Asse tho to drow are

geassally those

suits labshed in the suthun operation, a bandiui of others sco

have been approached by dold but turned dosa the recruit-cut

pich, aId sose SadvE Indigenous maritise assets. It is the

Station's intention to have i is pass the tord nong tacso witting

cleronts that he has had a shay falling-out with slim, 1s

quittira copletely, and leariy the area, at such tie as plans

are nado to have hin cove.

9. Subject is nor raking a salary of S!C0. per coath fron

JHAVE. Ile hes no outside arco=e.

His father is dead, his

se 1s requested

that interested Stations advise the

mount of salary maich could

be offored commensurate sith ares livin; costs and Subject's ez-

Travel costs fros J'it to a la anda can be borne

by Jailt.

subseruent empesses roule hora to is sores by the

Station taking over the agent.

income should be surgested by t intcrosted Si-tio.

cational grant,

, is Simirr

=2snazis:, sossibly

corbiced with

notional farily traith, wouid probady so sessible.

SuggeStions are solicites.

ICal can be nip arrilast. to tarnsios oa scort

It is hoped that a trances ca: ba nana By Girty 1965,

certrinly prior to the openin; oi the sabool jona in daa ani-

vorsity he focs to shoalú stair its jes on 1 igoi, 5 to start

at nid-sonostor at a univorsity os the Septorber to cuse school

corments are also requistod 01 problans of eric lont at

the university.

•

Andrey k. 2ad72ra

201-347337

==

To:y

33g

---

## Page 5

S-=

KAPOK

64/63-17794

21 March 1963

MEVORANDUM FOR: Chief, PM Branch, JMHAVE

FROM

SUBJECT

: Chies, Training Branch, UNWAVE

: Iraining Report.or. AMTRUNK Group

SEP 25 1964

DOC. MICRO, SER

the AMTRUNK GrouT

composed ou tour he pers das shrent were raining en clandestine

l'ethods and Techniques -by Andrew S. PARMERS at Safehouse £164.

The Training course

included the following:

A. Introduction to the Training Course

3. Instruction and Discussions on Personal and Operational

Security; Cover and Compartmentation; Clandestine

Cormunications; Agent Spotting; Selection; Investigatio.

Recruitment and Management; Operational Planning anc

Reporting.

In additior, the trainees were given the "Introduction to

Clardestine Operations," "Espionage Cases,"

and the functions and

organization of "Soviet Security Services," for supplemental

reading and study.

the training also included, grou? discussions and participation

in a series ci appropriate operational situations desizned to teach

operational planning techniques.

Several live problems were worked

out by the students themselves, to acquire experience in applying

clandestine operational techniques.

on Sunday, 10 March, an all day

exercise in Agent Meeting, Casing,

Selection of Dead Drops and

Surveillance was held in

the city of Key West.

me group eagerly participated in the caily physical training,

which included calisthenics, volley ball, swimming and long hikes.

II. Team Evaluation:

conscientious, energet chane, were highly rotivated, receptive,

or parties note carent

The grous.

Although there

was abundant discursion and even occasional

disagreemert among

there was no violent argurent rotec

To the instructor they were polite,

respectsul, considerate and friendly.

Eased on individual performances. of the tean rembers, the tear as a

whole was satisfactory.

FARON.

Mind to sad:.

S-E-C-S-E-TS BPY

0710-367337

..

---

## Page 6

14-00000

KAPOK

SECRET

B. AMICE/14 - IA - "David! PARDO"

David's conprehension of material presented, as revealed

readilv devised realistic solutions providing

essiciency in the actions contemplated.

se is highly motivated,

interested in procedures recommended, and ready to analyze previous

Faulty operations and to relate new techniques to his present

operational missior.

tends to keep silent until called

to participate in

discussion.

He writes excellent

reposts in Spanish, has many of the earmarks

of a professional

Politically he is very conscious, a keen ObServer an€_&

good analyst of cument Latin American affairs. Steady tenper, seldom

criticizes, periorms his duties even when under stress.

Apparenzly, by his own and his teannates

admission,

he nas had abundant experience in clandestine activities

present and past regimes in his country.

These experierces have

awarened in hin a dees need to know how to operate nore securely and

sitin more efficient organization.

previous failures have asparent!

1ed to his exile on various occasions to Central and dorth then even

and have caused many of his close comrades

to suffer arrest and

low he hopes to accomplish more and still survive following

instruction and guidance from KUBARK.

He is probably more objcotive than his teamates in

analyaing intellizence tarrers in his homeland.

he held a midcle-

-aragonent traveling posicion in the present regime and is personally

familiar with many sargers, in and out of jail.

and is not shed sey to tale coo race

sone ability to plan operations.

cla-destinely.

H8/66:Fi09.17?09%

---

## Page 7

4-00000

Jerel

FP.2

30

Chief, PM Branch, INHAVE

MICROFILMED

SEA 250196A

¿os 8???

: Chief, Training Branch, JMWAVE

Conglotios 0. Fruirino depuro =-_AMICE/14 - TA - "DAVID"

P53 : Cien0 Pra- Ces/üräva rugüustäre Greining for Subjust)

During the puriod a tira 21 Decouer 1963, tais Treinse porticiated

1n a courca 0ã trsinana on Clardestiro inthoas and decani, ues ciriuetos

-aren do punica (on IDY from desiguarters) Ir Sala sita - 216

1n the Judia ares.

course, mich nao conducted da Spanich Ey. 25.

spcrubiensa Security, Corer,

Ciminatino Carauniensoas, Report iritiria

Target isoysis, an mart

Rec-uie6=rt.

Instruction Lutacãs noed included briofirgo, discussicas,

1ive recolced problene, ard escagrod restarjo

AMTRUNE/13.

jErcito drouz Meso AMACREE/Le AMAKALZ, AMTRUII18 and

ris Dado ned perdietras, coisa cocais do dila dia esa naco

Fresented by forais 15

incity to David

discuscic..ag

1n ircotical live trebaris,

s* **:

suanaus picileis.

¿trécrense

==-TE 9:9004.000 taine cooor 2953.

Tre

rictica:

Siriust

fr.

troc

"it

result,

cü-ise.

Subiace ls soure of in: castel

0й5тсinч-ie

-t.s

c:e,

Ate

ce cor.

na sai diviona c.

eucarados:

•,*

caguriense to

::ÁCa.u9

%.o

cyck

whatorar dists tas rajudred

:= ins s-ca:!

c: 7...1

can to ders

=uer céter

3::

wilda nis

¿CrO

==. 11115

resistie

cante-cios

abete eh:: 1%

carga "sma

naos

Ine cientestire

carro. o

COpy

...

---

## Page 8

2

Laiti

continues to be greess intellicent, articulate,

couragecus, pesient, burd wordirag sensitie, excolicar sense o

äe berra disco:"ers well and is sold disciplind. de cootersied

¡unly "aci: die inseructor and ininteined excollone relations tich hag 1saz-

dorever, se dogs nou sizera to be i strons locrocalve lutder, jet

seans no trouble reinaro the others to obag him aid he consisterily 'ceers

the corale hija of doe entire gaouge

michough Sublec is noi shrend by nature, he secis to thorcugaly

entor insang and conductine alscortine ogerationco do ogerly stetes

trit sánce do hes sjurt so nory guers la indiruraurd =calvities, ho zat

co sell devote the rest oû his ilie to Intellence decrations.

sorgis i course he done framer evadie to over

overthres

the exietiro regice in sis coliniayo

Elmer E. SHAPIRO

Chief, Training Branch

-7e1-

3*7331

---

## Page 9

15. 3

SEGRET

1101139

18 June 1964

SUBJECT

: Chief, Training Branch, UNrAVE

: Training Evaluation Report on AYTRUNK Team

I. During the period 20 May through 5 June 1954,

the AMTRUNK

training by Alton T. PIRNACK and John X. TARTARILLO

It Satesides hEr, mato, and ril6, in the following PH Subjecte:

A. Map Reading

Introduction to Nap Reading

26 Marginal Information

4.

Grid Coordinates

Measuring Distances

5. Azimuths

6.

Intersection/Resection

7.

Contour Lines and Elevation

8. Silva Compass

MITREFILMED

SEP 25'1J54

DOC. MICRO. HER."

B.

Caching

i repeat, in or caching

Site Selection

5.

6.

Site Requirerents

7.

Site Locations

Methods of Caching

8.

Packing

9.

Recovery

10. 12 Point Report

C. Weapons:

• .

FAL

swedish "X" SMG

6: Sha Pistol

MBAL SMO w/silencer

to the rancoron achine is

Night Movement exercises consisted of observing and

reporting on the xperinenial Paint Laboratory, fara

Labor Camp,

KAPOK

301-311337.

---

## Page 10

29067

no hi to:

=. A Daylight Observation and Reporting

exercise was

conducted against a Surface to Air Missile site.

I!. Team Evaluation:

motivation and morale

night novement exercises.

III.

Individual Evaluations:

A. AMICE/14 - TA - "DAVID"

Javid is a personable young man in fair physical condition

ossessing above average intelligence.

He has the ability to

learn and retain material without difficulty.

Due to a tooth

extraction and subsequent complications, he was unable to parti

cipate

in the following training

activities: Class work; 20, 21g

and 22 May and 3 June.

Night Exercises; 22, 26 and 28 May.

David possesses the ability to express himsels clearly.

During

-the student lecture periods, he lectured and

answered questions

with confidence and knowledgeability.

David has

the further

ability of understanding

and executing detailed irstructions with

a sinimum of effort.

His approach to training was positive.

His

notivation and morale was good; his interest and enthusiasm

outstanding.

David performed very well in the nap and compase

phase

of training.

He can accurately ground navigate, read

coordinates,

neasure distances, and locate unknown

positions

using

intersection and resection. His report

• the one night

exercise he participated in, was too general, lacking inportant

details. on the target observed.

With more practice, David's

reporting capability should show marked improvement.

In

the

night movement phase, David had no difficulty with terrain move-

avat having sod sessence to ete maxine

He was able to use all

In Caching theory

le did exceptionally well, as indicated by his tes: score

0f 94%.

This is a good example of

David's ability of retention, since ros

David had

liana discicülty with

demonstrated good marksmanship on the range, and is quite safety

minded.

co--or sarse,

a condone thane de taves in piagoreance

during training was satistaciony.

SECRET

ictfo.36d56on.17744

KAPOK, 38 - 307337

CS COPY

---

## Page 11

SECRET

35.

14 July 1964

EXORANDU FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Assessnent for Future KUBARK

L'tilization, ANICE-1*

SEL

AMICE-11 was recruited in shich 1963 for the Arritk project

which is concerned primarily with APRON activities.

II. October 1963,

I9ICE-14 became the P/A of the ASTRUNK team and concurres:is Team

He has 6 other AlTRUX"s under his supervision.

sinued in this dual capacity until June 1964 when he was sold that he

would not be persitted to re-infiltrate in the near future.

During the

course of five infiltration operations over the past year and is day

¿o day duties as Principal Agent between operations, AiC=-14 has be-

come thoroughly familiar with the objectives and accomplishents of the

AMITRUNK operation sand concurrently, to a lesser degree,

with a parallel

NAPRON operation (AJILASH)-to the point where his capture inside could

result in the complete collapse of both projects.

This latest develop

Lem suPple setsuities have bee oceans wishes coars stated

limits of PBPRISE 15"strictly agairst AVICE-14's wishes.

above, ANICE-14 has participated in five clandestine infiltration opera

under KUBARK sponsorship and in another ten before be became con

nected with KUBARK.

The five sissions net with varying degrees of

success but in each AMICE-14 showed an uncommon amount of personal

bravery terpered with a realistic application of the principles of

clandestine operations.

His performance in these operatiors has also

been marked

a resourcefulness and stick-to-it-iveness shich testi

fy further to the high degree of motivation and personal integrity which

this agent possesses.

AMICE-14 is 27 years old.

and has three children from

four years of age to

one nonth.

from a family of professional

people and has hinself completed I of the necessary 5 jears ior a law

degree at the University of Havana.

Khile still in Cuba, I'ICE-14 was a

leader in secondary schouls in both latanzas and javana Provinces

a member of the Directorio Revolucionario (DR), one of she most active

of the anti-Batista organizations and probably second only to the

effectiveness.

ditor the revolution,

AXICE-14 held responsible

administrative positions in the Provincial Government ard in the Bureau

For a person vi his relatively young aje, he has many

close friends in high positions a the Castro Government.

The most remarkable ina.: about AMICE-ld is that te is mature

beyond his year's.

He has packed a lot of living into 3 years.

been a revolutionary since his late teens and so much oi his life

has been occupied with clandestine activity of

sone sort tha: it is

scally the only

"trade" he knows.

(Although AICE-ly may not admit it

except to himself in his neaker -oents, to may be dust so impossible

for him ever to settle down to any kind

of normal lite). l'ary of thosc

young Cubans tho have been fighin; first Batista ind then Castro ith

an honest zeal and dedication aic

dithor dead of surving dors prisor sen

tencos. Few who have been

as activ. as ho aro still alive or tree. What has

SECRET

KAPOK

11.71

---

## Page 12

•SECRET

personally involved, in an aciive cagacity, in

right against

is reluctant to leave tie laVE

area and to cease active

operatiors against Castro as long as his services are needed.

has said that he always intended to complete his edication sone

own and his fanily's future will have to wait un-

til Fidel is ousted.

Kith his pasi experience in student activities.

and clardestine operations, he couid be invaluable in the right

Latin serican university.

However, he intends to think of student

activities as child's play compared

to the HAPRON objectives of

the AiTRiJi project.

It is still problematical whether or not he

will accept this proposal.

LüICE-14 speaks adequate Erglish for operational purposes

and for social conversation.

He uncerstands idiomatic Erglish with

little difficulty. • His written Erglish is poor but both his written

and spoken facility with the language could be improved with some

tutorial training.

He wants to speak proper English and he tries

his best to phrase his sentences gra-atically but he, at least in

recent years, is hampered by a lack of formal education in English.

While he coabined both P/A and Teas Leader functions for the

AUTRUNK tean, his case officer did not press hin to provide written

His reports were given verbally to his case officer who

would then prepare them in Englisa.

He has since been given the

use of a syperriter he had taken a course in typewriting-and his

first report (in Spanish) appears Io be thorough and comprehensive.

There is no reason why he cannot be developed into a good reporter

because he is very observant and is a keen student of human nature.

He will probably have

to be prodded to continue to write but be

has not jai objected to it.

In summary,

ANICE-14 would be ideal for anti-Conmunist

student actirities in Latin America--if he wants to give it a try.

still only a goal for the immediate futurc--he cannot be

a student all his life.

The biggest challenge is to lind a way to

continue to utilize his talents.

It all depends on the Cuban

situation. If Fidel is ousted,

there is an excellert possibility

day AiICE-14 may well be a very influential person in a

free Cubar government.

If the situacion in Cuba remains status quo

and if a way can

be found to "interns-ionalize" his thinking

against Comounisa as a world nonace rather tian as the nore localized

personal cancur that Cuban Comunis

represents to hi.

at present,

he could continue to be of immense value

tO KUBARK in other Spanish

speaking areas for many years.

Reuben matter

SECRET

КАРПК

i...

..÷:

---

## Page 13

MC.

SECRET

PERSONAL RECORD QUESTIONNAIRE

PART | - 81OGRAPMICAL INFORMATION

5P

ДMR8Ґ801

co' dordogagie, asphe -va dorsearen 40. UFGA-17794

SECTION

GENERAL

PERSONAL ADE PHYSICAL BATA

(vaddloy

TE 26,

7706)

Miguel

Angel

DIAZ

Isalgue

2. BANT IN MATBDE LAAGUAGE DN SCRIPT

3. DAME AT dISTA (IT diTTerent then Tron d.)

Same as l above

Sane ay

l above

S. ALIASES, NICANAMES, TELECODES, LEGAL CHANGE IN MAME (SEGRE CIDE, GOSzOn TOR and Dlace eT "8o)

None

Micher Cine

StY 25 1964

DOC. MiCRO. SER.

S. EATS OF SIATA

14 February 1937

PERSONAL MABITS (LagUOr, drugo, denbland, paremeura)

To bad habits observed by case officer.

8- PLACE OF STATH

Matanzas City, Cuba

S. COUDE ARCORO rCoure, dese, arresta, chardos, pureahaanta, dentoncer.

Imprisoned several times in Cuba during rears 1953 through 195.

for his part in various political causes

Spent total of about

6 months in jail during above period.

!

XX -

TE. ACE

27

30

COLON OS EVES

Black

Black

8=408 20=

ARES CE DINIA DISTIGGUIGNINE BIATURES

Jone

DENT AGE 16.

• 570.10 150

j. TEETA

Good

" COMPLETION

nudat

OvaL

І. РОБТЬФЕ

ErecE

Thin and Scholary

Jone

subject

Hears glasses continually

slite:: 52 195 14898985186

•* 1050 ...

SECRET

-tre56ii.86d.177014

18-808

3÷7331

---

## Page 14

1:

KAPOK -

SECRET

SECTION

PRESENT

Cuban

X/A

PRESEN: BESIDENCE (IndICAse

2328 1.E. Gth Avenue,

PIRMANENT ADDRESS (Il dallerens than fion 1a.)

¿ Niam, Florida (tenant)

Miami,

Same as Item 12.

16 ,U.S. MAILRALIZED CITIZES. GIVE DAME, DATE, CITY AND MUMBER OF CERTIFICATE GRANTED

OUTSIDE-COURTAY OF PRESENT RESIDENCE (COUNtrIeD, dAtes and purpOses)

•Fifteen clandestine trips to Cuba during period 1956 through 1964.

-Subject has not left the United States for any other reason dur

ing the past three years.

SECTION

PRESENT OCCUPATION

OCCUPATIONAL

AND FINAICIAL DATA

IP.PETLE

1D. SALARY (PEE ANALS)

18. FIRANCIAL STATUS (EArRIndo, Dant deposita,

and properly)

SECTION IV

ORGANIZATIONAL AFFILIATIONS

20 MIUDERSNIP IN RELIGICUS DRGAMIZATIONS

Subject is a Catholic

PRESENT AND PAST MEMDEASMIP IA PROFESSIONAL AND SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS, POLIPICAL AFFILIATIONS

Past member of Directorio Revolucionario

SECTION V

MANE AND LOCATION O SCHOOL

_. EGUCATIONAL CATA

SCHOOLS

RAME OF COURSE

DAPES ATTENDEO

Colegio Baldor, Havana

Instituto Matanzas

Louisiana State Univ.

Baton Rouge,

Louisiana

U'nir. of Havana

+ +01

Ê GRE

RECEIVE

Primary School

/ 1944

1951

High School

1951

1955

Yes

11 hours of credit toward gedlogy degree in 1957

Law(3 years credit) 1955 thru

1960

LANGUAGE

1210d:

Spanish

English

LANUAGES ASO DIALECES

16A 800

HEAD

7&5

U5C60T

F. pa SS 43:43

Anil

COMBETENCE

SPEAR

L491991440

=0

SECRET

---

## Page 15

SEE X4.504

SPECIAL GUALIFICATICNS 180

LATERESTS

BATTING

GIVE DETAILS SACLUDING TITLES OF BODAS DA ARTICLES, ALSO DAMES OF PURLISHLAS AND PUBLIEA.

tait

At'

JAr&s.

Jone

25- SPECIAL SAILAS, ABILITIES, HOBBIES SUCH AS RADIO, PHOTOGRAPHT. ETC.

Swinning, Boating, Shooting

* SECTION VII

COUNTRY

N. A.

MILITARY SERVICE

DATES

UNIT

OUTY®

•1EI$54EY166 COUNTRY, ANDSCATE MMERE SERVICE-PERFORMED.

DECORATIONS, UMEN AND ANY DISCHARGEO.

GIVE DETAILS OF MAR

EMPLOYMEAT HISTORY

SECTICH VITI

NOTE

INOICATI CHROVOLOGICU HISTORY OF EMPLOYUEVT LASTING

LAST POSITION PIRST. INCLUOS 14Y COVERINENT DIPLOYNSIT.

?.

"CaUSIVE DATES (FeUn-TO)

25. ApF 62 to Feb 63

106

c. a921.1. 6th Ave., Mani - Fla.

•ДЕ ОГ

+327

SALAZU OR LAGNINGS

REASON FOR LEAVING

Driver

$ 50.00

|ee week

LUSIVE DATES (FROM-JOID, EUPLOYER

27..

CCt 61 t0 4pr 62

Hardy

а)ла

SANdEr OR EARNINGS

Driver

7 60:00

Peo week

SIVE DATES (FROM-TO, E.

Jun 59 to Feb 60

Jin. of interior

Dir. Motor Vah. Burs $500. Fonti

C. 1009658

26th St and 36th Ave hi, Mani

009 LEAVING

Laid

off

6. 89:9555.

Havana, Cuba

•CASEO FIOLEANINE

Forced to leave Cuba

SCUS.NE 5018566500-8035.

"Ive orio

Par

59 to Jan 59

Min, of Interior

Havana, Cuba

Secty of idmin.,

So. day

Provlicial GoVt

01.

$ 500.

HAVINASTE

DATES I

E month Transferred to dotor Vehicle lureau

IE. 9000095

13: :.

SECRET

---

## Page 16

SEGRET

MARITAL STATUS

& al

SERARATED

- in, te!

¡Х мадАно

132.1:4",

DATE, PLACE AND REASON FOR ALL SEPARATIONS, DIUÇACES OR ANGUAMENTS

N.A.

DIVORCEO

"assurito

"PORTIAN DE DIAZ, FABIGUNSALA

H54844

IF YOU

MALE

BEC.

MARRIED

INCLUDING

DIVING DATA REQUIRED BELON

* FOR ALL PREVIOUS MARRIAGES.

ANNULMEHTS, USE SHEET FOR FORNIA MIFE ON HUSBAND

31. HAME OF SPOUSE

(Fires)

FabioLa de la PORTILLA

(LANG)

Garcia

MARRIAGE

39. PLACE OF MARRIAGE

24 April 1959

Satanzas City, Cuba

36.FAT

Jo 818T

37. PLACE OF BIRTA

29 August 1937

Matanzas City, Cuba

H8-049-0012188 AT BIRTH

JD. SUASEQUENT CATELENSHIPS

Cuban

N.A.

1вG.

#BESIDE RESIDENCE (CAST PESIdeNCE, TO dECENGET"

232S N.E. 6th Ave., Miami, Florida

• SECTICA A

CHILOREN

FULL NAME

SEX

OF

BIRTH

PLACE OF BIRTH

siaria Rosa DIAZ Portilla

Miguel Angel DIAZ

Portilla

Alejandro Januel DIAZ

Portilla

1 x: 1960

Matanzas, Cuba

Xi

1963

Miami, Florida

1964

Miami, Florida

MATIONALITY AT BIRIN

Cuban

U.S.

U.S.

*SUBSEQUENT CITIZENSHIPS MELD BY

AAT

CHILO (adentaly chald and dovo his. or her.

address)

• Eteries xI

FATHER

Siguel Angel DIAZ Pardo |

•AZ. VERO OF MIATM jAD.

LACE

of

1887

Havana,

9500195

#. GFCLPATION

Lawyer

Cuba

AS. PRESENT MESIDENCE

Deceased

* cuban

AGNALITY AT INTO

• Eastica 811

Dolores ISALGUE Isalgue

Cuban

MOTHER

VENA GI DIATE DO TIRIT

1896

Dominican Republic

"Dominican

$606 3-A, Milanar, Havana, Cuba

SECRET

---

## Page 17

SEP"5,

MAPUN

SECTICA XITT

Sult adul

diercedes DIAZ Isalgue

BROTHEAS AND SISTERS

*GAR

"i"

1OF BIRTH

PLACE OF DIRTA

1.935

Havana, Cuba

Cuban

"SUBSEQUENTGITI

N.A:

MELO BY ANY BROTHER DA SISTEA

SECTION XIV

RELATIVES. ACQUALATANCES AND CONTACTS

"Sara

a ISAZcUE Isalgue, I

NASSIP.

Jose MASSIP Isalgue,

married to'ex-cuban ambassador to boland in Cuban

Communist Party member who works

movie industry. Jose Alberto SENIDEY Isalgue, Cubana pilot and official.

SE RELATIVES, FALMOS, CORMESPONOLATS dA UOS. (ExplOIM COlOTIONED,

No relatives in U.S.

3Y MATIRALIZATIDN OF CLOSE RELATIVES IN U.S. (GiNo nano, dalo, eily nd nuader of certilacate granted)

N.A.

50. MANES.

ALIASES, TELECODES AND AELATIONIMIA OF ALL PERSONS ANORA TO DE COMMECTED IN ANY WAY MITA DAY INTELLIGEACE

Jose Alberto SEMIDEY Isalgue, first cousin, Cubana pilot and official.

PERSONAL ASSOCIATICAS

SECTICN XV

A-LISY CLOSE ASSOCIATES, IADIVIQUALS OR GROUES

Maria Teresa de la CALIPA de VARGAS Gomez

Humberto ARMADA Guerra

• SECTICE XVI

MISCELLANEOUS

-12222

SECKLET

p7 ping

501-3:7337

---

