# 104-10069-10434

## Page 1

104-10069-10434

SECRET

(WHEM PILLED 18)

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

ITRUCTIONS: Un ottiore denignationa in the "TO" clumn. Number ach common: lo correnpind with the sumber la the "10" colus

¿Draw a line across the sheel undoi each commens. Each officer should dala

1. Initial Ichoch: mark Insulbcion) boloro fuelhes routi

This Routing and Hocoid sheel should NDY bei removed lom the allached RECOND: document.

DOCUMENT NUMBER

FROM:

RT/AN

OBRA 08569

DOCHANEST DATE

20 ÄVE 357

TO

ROOM

NO

DATE

AUG 2 li 19571

Wela

100-v

COMMENTS

NOTE: 1l a copy or attachmens ase remored trus the al

lached document, note the locion of the copy ar !:or attach-

ment hereon.

-elairred in

Men heroin it, cal so cera tito so are do

manent

lord.

1

SE/RED

SR -3 W3ANG 27 1957

WE - 2

10.

FILE TITLE

TEPRODUCTON

INDEX

20 aug. 57

FILE NUMBER

a COPY

201

ENCLOSURE

14.

' RI/FI

1400L

ГОЛУ. 10. 8100

USE PREVIOUS

INDEE

SECRET

Li.

---

## Page 2

14.00000

VIA: -

SECrET

CLASSIFICATION

TO

: Chief, WE

15-5

DATE: - 10 Angrat 125.

FROM

Chlor of station, (ruslaGhd

SUBJECT: GMERA- VANILLY CAVTIIOYICHENOSIDIKO (DOG: 5 Sapt :422" (201

TuLa, USSR)

SPECIFIC-

Information Passed to (LICHTINGALE)

REFERENCES:

(BRUS) - L43

B. OBA - 4570

Infomation devoloped from the NICONViNIBiT operatio:

ubich was passed to HIGHIINGALE 35 on d Epris 1957 10 conjunctlon wita infor

EStIOn OF NICONVENINNI (rof B).

ao that, 11 nevessary, (NIGIllINGALE) could make 1t appear that

informed of the infomation as it devaloped.

20

The proposed interrogalion of KUSTO:KO (rof A)l'bas not texen

pl808e.

the story, behind this may be difficult for a non-Belgian bureauerat

to understand, but Ny2'a burying this case when ho has a strong position for

interrogation may be caurod to some extent by the faot that hle trump cardo

vora supplied by the Station only after ve vore, ainlahed yith a untatona

operation end therefore might rereal a Lack of (NICHTINGALE) control over ...

241an280n0. In any case, (l,2'a final dooladon not to interrogato kosTko

la apparently caused by more than toertla.:

On a ADI, A 35 801d Journay that had aWeI thus nea

BELINAUSTATA ALA •BURIANSKAYA dIVOrCOd PITHILST (DORI 3 April 1926, Rector,

) had contaoted N147 and complained that KOS TINKO, bor ELover,

bad

Focanal fron Gertiny and was coning her coneiderabso trouble.

Kos thako

threatened to koep her fron going to the United Statos to join her husband,

Pars MOTI TIK (DOB: 28 Feb 24a Starts Dorkla USSB)(U.S. rea 159 Bant

avon Ste, Logktord, Mohigan• Ao Lydia 10 a Balgen ottoen (by narrage

to lares Lady Vialist, Wyr apparatly fole sorlay bound to protes

boso4012 andE/5 feared that, in ho enthuslam, My mght orato a soda.

end ocuse MOSTiNKo a file to be :,romated

do Cividra farat regation was to get lydla da a bout sor the U.B.

and theratore bury the subjeot. )35 asted Journay 11 the station doud

hain with her viea but Jowvenoy told hin the queation of "betas cr not me

runcived her vies was out of ou banda.

(Attachment B 18 A NICTINOALE"!

Invostigation of Lydia, attsomment C 18 Jourooy o report of ma queetien

ing of byte (pes" (BRUS

287) which was snitired and passed to NIGIINQAIE

md the U.3. Conoulats), 'Ony after they were told that Lyca's vea appil

cation was baing revlared, and she woud probably be eround: for somautae..

date and N,35 atare plaming to interrogate Kes tail.

0z:

02

1/10

•REPRODUCTIONS

B cisdo

SECRET

CLASSIFICATION

50ang 57

7201-150630

-01.1

---

## Page 3

14-00000

SECRET

OBBA - 1569

16 August 1957

page 2

5.

V)35 requested the summaries:of theICUViNILi I and KUSTENKO

Information which had been promised them in order to plan the attack and

Jouvenoy passed the infornation on o April. Jouvenoy discussed an interro

gation plan with N/15 and, althoughl/ 35 was hesitant to set a date for the

interrogation, he gave the impression that

the plans were iim, several days

Later, CN/35 told Jouvenoy that it appeared NY»7 had lost interest in Lydia,

and there was thereiore no pressure to interrogase i stilku.

The relatively

strong position whichWIGlINuALE had for the irterrogätion uf in RIS agent

(they even had jurisdiction!) was

'appreciated but discarded.

Pavel DAIKUK retumed to Baldun in July 1157 to try and get

Lydia's visa expedited,.

not inconceivable that ia may find a

ronger some tent and maine be again corced anto considering

aotion against iisl.an0.2

As noted In (05: A)

145a para 5, astar as Crussolgis concorred,

the wraps are off on niomanion.

witch may be passed to

S:TUBA-

100, but we note in(ul)e aid; that i silku may ence aj.in borerst

som Uri's Inäroct proliction, 20-21

Attachmento A, B, and C

HQ - 3 w/atts

FILES " 3 w/atta in dup

SECRET

701-150620

---

