# 104-10162-10230

## Page 1

104-10162-10230

PRIOR TO FILING

I.

F111 in Sect. 2.

on back. Detach back

flap and forward to RID.

2. Destroy front cover sheet, unless 1t

recores significant action taken or

comments requiring preservation.

FROM:

INSTRUCTIONS

TO: ACTION BRANCH

It file no. and title show are not:

proper, lnsert proper file no. below

and forward document to RID/AN.

PROPER FILE NO.

RID/

TO: ALL ADDRESSESS

FILL IN SECTION 1 ON BACK. IF AFPROPRIATE

COMMENTS

TO

ROOM

DATE

RECEIVED

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

1.

2.

3.

WH 046 Barton

16 1960

Sui

LT нас

Mana

Đ.

"iD.

1 1.

12.

13.

RIA/EDI

15.

18.

8%

RID/FI

TRACE

REQUEST

DATE MICROFILNEO

610a

USE PREVIOUS

EDITIONS

MIkE; bIS ORiGINAL

Go to MAri? Yes

Lit OU

12 X

• RETURN TÓ CLA

Bediground Ven Ont

• Do Mal Raproduc

AisTRACT

INDEE

201-267437

FILE AUNDER

PRIMARY CODE

DOCUMEN

2.9 vio

SECRET

DOCUMINT NUMDEA

HKHA 06509

621

soR. 3t=.

---

## Page 2

14-00000

CONTINUATION OF

• DISPATCH

CLASSERTER.

103 Woo Representative, :Lani

(Dro Grief. WD!

Fois caief of Station, inband lier

201267437

St is Request di ÜD:/1 -ake Antipiastro lage decording

ACTION REQUEStiD& See selow

ISSATEN SYMPOL ARO NO

-HI- 6519

field file no. 10200-130

29 June 1950

1o

OTEr

The A Yu organization re orts it has the capability of plajing tape recordings

selected public asiress systers in sons of the nost copular places in Habaia.* In

order to test this projessed capability and erceps at ice sa e tile octain so..

tive Mohis results,

it is requested tnat VASE

2051-

request i idy/l to record a series of

anti-cornist speeches for replay in Haband.

The Asial/l recording should run

approxinately twenty sinutes and it is suggested thut tie senty-minties recording be

broken down into four separate speeches, each of five minces duratiun.

2.

The Station leaves the subject matter uf the species to lis: discrecion out

would: like to sug est tsat in one si the species the overall there of a large enj

growing organized resistarce within suba be exchasized in sone tasnion.

Another useful

theme would be a call for general and organized resista.ce to the khruschev visit by

all anti-Castro elenents.

30

If time and the present work load at aSE

havina

at leeet three cagine of ench

transnissions on a given date.

rmit,

the Station would appreciate

Carthur

Distribution:

3 Feadquarters

I Miani (sent by courier)

2 files

22. June 1900

AS COPY

HK:A-6509

201-267737

17. 126-70

PAGE NO

109 300

p09g

USE PREY DUS EDITIONA

REPLACES FORMS

91-28. 38.206

UND $1.2B

WHICH. ARE ONSOLETE

CUASSIFICATION

S.SCRE:

CONTANTO

---

