iodtotee-10109]

-RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
_ Bo Not Reproduce


mace 8” q 7 re . oe ., :
~-PATT ACO. Maited Btates, tint (2 Juls ru. = erg Wing |

Fee Oe tees Ce ae ee ee ee ee

wore OF Core Sele ty ome mene me ge nb Neg eb Mey te se Bee
panera ae ene 7 : TF padre

a etieasety conti morrian 7: adie
- Ciarremiep vissam ue eae :
v : A
Cuba, ait Seaton 2 2 RPORT HO . é i: sins
Kle Barty Pact Begotiatioes + *DATE OF BLOAT 3 Septonber 1963 a

se - Between the Bovinissto 7 .

Dewocrata Cristiano ("DC) NO. PACES 2 . :
aad other Cuban Exite : : ad .
© Geganizations —_ woe °
3. MOC Plans for Action Againet —

Cuba suite

R duly 1989 see Pramas

peaber-of a group of Cuban pays tratned tn the techaiques
of information collection. ‘The group has provided useful aaeail
‘y Feporte for over tvo'y.

Br. Haroos Rodrigues He

2 :
‘Ae of early Juby.1993, acecrding to Dr,” Mar tarcosthotr ty
Mendades, an attorney ai er etacutive seater of
Cristiano (™0C, Chr:
ado.a unfty ‘pact bert: Cubsia exile
-prgenization lead by Antonio’tlesta del Valle. :

the tera of. the. pact, tl om ane fo contribute 7
Sraiaing and asdistance io military intelligeacs, and.were to | pie

*, peowida three navhl uuits and yee B-26 aircragt e-shien the -,

Sr ae already had im ite posssasioa, The: KDC

1 Doste and a teen of now to be Tenater

al.
aa HEC pos atvo involved ti usity segotiations with De, car! :
3) Witte socsrras: who would contribute $30,000,008 exclusively for | v

BiTtary aid this was not to be used for bureauerstic affairs.
‘The WC would contribute men and the nase of the organization -
to the operation cr operaticas end wuld provide Dolipical
Support

"Se. Mhe MOC wae’ aled negotiating @ untiy pact for action
“Bireatorio Revoliyeiouarie Betudyeatst (DAR, Student:
. Birestorate) ase.

7 Rodrigues said that: the negotiations vith ths Moviaiento, de
Becuperacion 1 Revoluciozaria (ERR, Movement for Revolutionary —

Recovery) had proved unsuccessful. . Dr.’ + Hanwel Ure ine

, Gd not appear to be in favor of the

F


ae e ne
: : “ i 1
te i : : euiein : '
: id &. Tee KOC plansed to bey a rew boat with whic Yo engage is { :
“ unspecified action om the Cider ccasta, bet toe executics ed
. - io plas cepeactd oa the financial aesistaace waics -
2 7 in tee Orgaaization exzecthd to receire from Prte. i

.° The KOC planned to stage another alr raid against tbe Bolot
oil refinery im the city of Babess, this tine usizg as
aircraft especially prepared for the raid and with adequate”

st. “, bombs to destroy the target, The group vanted to Freveat |
é © repetition of wast Bapzened curing the last raid.

He i ieeentereer oyster ar eee cece cnieriiriteen

{ 2? ti viele © t: “The sane subsoukce reported: in:

aa - Gostivesscrrs tated 26 duly 1963, that Laur

P alla was belicved to be aaking preparations for Nts plan

7 te boab the otf reYinerids jn Regla,. ilsbana Provinc
2 the near future with a B-23 aircraft which the.
Ate possession as of 3 July.

——

rs

