# 104-10266-10024

## Page 1

104-10266-10024

SE- SECPET

SESFILMES

PERSONAL RECORD

QUESTIGNNAIRE

SEP 1 & 1962

PART 11 - OPERATIONAL INFORMATION

SISTEN 1O.

TSCHEN A DOC, MICRO SEF ML:-19722

offiese os appi

5P

Thes laro sues De fallod de Bo

S5+0At80e

2- Hersally

DIscas

5.

TAND

: E!

• LICOOKY-]

#81688 ++940868F

BE AID

questions

Belasse d1th the

Basement or con.

•as se so hanterieind, al possible) ma emo (2) com-

1 no

саріся.

poste "5à-- Il síditional sune required

I-@$ES2099#

Joyce H. FINEINCH

COMTACT AND DEVELOPRENT

INDICATE NOR, MIS. SUENE- MIY, AND Y MACA SE BJECT HAS

FIAST SONTACTED DA DEVELONIS.

T.TOOOKY-] was a Headquarters contact up until her return io Mexico in

1951. She was first contact by Clyde K. SHRYOCK on 30 June 195I at her

:--apartment, as per insiructions from Heajquarters (HMMW 9800). Clyde'

SK. SHRYOCK used the name "Bill MA. UND"

T' RESPONSIBLI CASE OFFICER FOR

WU60&BNG. DE $9. INDICATE TO WHON.

To any respons ible Case Officer.

#IBT OTHER CASE INFICENS IO HAVE HANDLED SUDICT ON WHON

OB MAS ENCUN. GINE MANES HY MICH THEY MAVE

"Jeanerte POST" - Headquarters

Dolores R. CASSAVETTLS - known a

"Shirley"

Clyde K. SHRỲOCK - knowa as "BillbISSNIX"

•ELIAS USED BYN : SEEDEOUMENT

*: 30 1050a

endlito ImmA -19722 ES GARY SECRET.

201-1278841

HH0A6:

---

## Page 2

14-00000

*.

SECRET

HOTIVATIEN ANE COATAR

SECTION II

1. ESTIMATE, SUBLET-S NOTIVATION, (Be detailed,

COBPEDAВI.")

Do

Same as that of any American citlzen.

DICATE MAT CENTROL, IF ANY, ERISTS OVER THE SIRECT. (Il DO

18r0l. or s1

Same as that over any American citlzen - loss of U.S. citizenship, etc.

SECTION 110

COVER

I- COVER USED ON SUBJECT AND CASE OFFICER IN THESE MEETIMES.

Two Americans obstensibly discussing printing and publlshing of luerary ma-

teral. In addition, meetings are held in out of the way restaurants where

Z. COvER usto contacts of aiher pasticipat are unlikely io appear

Farmer friend of Casuro and nis Revolution Subj. has been able to maintain,

many con

racts parculasty

KUBARK

Sardines has enhanced her

a mong the Arevalistas and friends

: of Arevalo.

INTELLIGENCE CONKECTIONS AND TRAIMING

GЖHR48-5 96B9

P848

MH PRESENT 4500112

SUCH COBNECTION

65 ANON OVERTLY.

None

ASSELI

EXPLAIN ANY TRAINICE SUBJECT MAS MAD IN CLASDESTINE OPERATIONS.

None; however,

she appears to have the knack. Her many adventurous years

in Cuba and other parts of Latin America have provided her with the

necessary knowledge to make a guod agent.

SECTION

tannen this Beniten

CORLABORATION POTENTIAL

DADICATE OTHER FOREIGN PONER SUBJECT MOULD BE M05I LIMELY TO COLLABOGATE BITH BECAUSE

None.

- SECRET

---

## Page 3

OPERATICHAL USE -

SURE HAS DESE SCO SA COOTACTED LEVORE, LODICATE ACTIOTE ENEM MR DAS CAGEDRO LAD THE UNDE Or MANORE

WATION HE HAS FLONISHID.

Subject was former contaci of KUBARK Headquarters where she was providing

Information on the "Fair Play for. Cuba Committes in the United States.

Subject at that time had the cryptonym "AMUPAS-1"

BADICATE NOS AND FROM MMON SUBLICT OBTAIRS INFORMATION.

From direct elicitation. (See Section III, number 7).

DO INDICATE WHAT MAS BELM TOLO SUAJECT AS TO THE DISPOSITION DE INTORNATION ME FURNISHES.

Goes to Washington.

A DETAIL SUBJECT'S PROPOSED FI OR CI TYPE USE OR DUTIES.

Nona.

TYPE USE OR DUTIES.

None

24

SECTION VOI

PROPOSED (LIAISON OR OPERATIORAL ACTIVITY

8. DETAIL SUPJECT-S-PROPOSED LIAISON TYPE CONTAGI DA DPBRALIOMAL

•. THERE SUBJECT IS AN OFFSCIAL MENSER OF

FOREION COVERANDT: ) 24

NA

rob tath.

MEMBER OF AN DOTONE

AGENCY:

SECTION VIX!

AGEMCY RELATIONSHIP WITH SUBJECT

INPRAIN MATURE OF AGEACY

RELATIONSHID DOTH SUBICCT, DOE, TRAINEE, OPPOSITI HUNDEN, MERUPCHATION. IF ANY, AGENCY

PERSONNEL SHOU

TO SUAJECT.

Subject is a contract agent.

She receives the amount of $US I0. monthly

* (SUS:30, tax withheld). clearing SUS 150.

ULU SECRET.

p: -4-0-14380939

---

## Page 4

14-00000

SECRET

SECTION IX

DESENSITIZE

QUALIFICATIONS FOR GTMER

PATIONS

LODICATE SORCID ABILITIES, TALERTS, OR GUALIFICATIONS POSSESSED dY SUBLECT PICO CELLO COSTEIDARES BE OF MALLE

ЗЕСТО# Х

COAMODIFIES.

SUBSIDY

COMMITMENTS

SUASILY A DEGULAR SALARY, INDICATE THE GLENLY MOUBT. IF PAYMENT SO BE MADE AN EXCAANGI

OTHE#

SPECIFY AND GIVE DETAILS.

*PLAL ANY PO MISSSE OTHERDISE NOS COVERLO MEREIT, MADE TO SUBJECT, (ERRAple: COmmAnento refordand aNacantion

No commitments.

SECTION XI

INDICATE THE FIELD AGENCIES

None

CE AND SECURITY

AND FIELO FILES BITE MICH SUBJECT-S NAME HAS BEER CHECHED AND THE BESULTS.

INDICATE OTHER INVESTIGATIVE MEASURES TANEN 'TO VERIFY BIOGAS IÇAL INFORMATID FERRISHED-'NY SUBJECT.

Subject was LCFLUTTERed at Headquarters (see Headquarters' file).

indianic

TAITHIS IN MOT PROVISICHAL DDEDATITNAL APPROVAL OR DÈDATIONAL AP-

JA- DATE APPRAL 'ORTAINED.

'PROVAL FOR SUBJECT'S USE NAS DEEN PREVIDUSLY OSTAIRED.

EVALUATE SUBJECT'S CHARACTER. DELIABILITY ARO

COTING EVIDENCE HEDE POSSIDLE.

During the period subject has worked in Mexico, sbe has shown herself to be very security

conscious and reliable. Although subj. 's flair for men has been demonstrated on many

This characteristic has apparently been an asser rather than a liability Col

ic che case ut LINLUCK has subject's promiscuiry been a threat to security.

01

#- EXPLAIN ANY SITUATION OR IADISERETION BA IMIDA

CE/OPERATIONAL SECURITY VIEWPOINT.

SUBJECT MAY MAVE BEEN INVOLVED OHION MUST BE CARLUATED FROM A

Subject's close relationship with LINLUCK) ol

Subject's overt (magazine article) attacking the Castro Regime has weakened ber

posicion amung the Castro followers in Mexico. Subj's public notoriety is also

worth of consideration (see "Parade" article - August 1962).

SECTION XIL

SUBJECT'S PERSONAL MABITS

I. USE OF LIQUOR. ORUGS: GAMELING. PARAMOUAS.

: Subject l& known ro drink socially. (see Headquarters" flles re Subject's pass.)

¿RUiSECRET

---

## Page 5

14-00000

SECT SEC PE

SECTION KITI

AYOCATION AL INTEREST

SO INDICATE SUNRIT'S NODBIES DO INTEREST 1E SPOATS, MUSIC. ETE

Subject is interested in the arts in general.

SECTION HIV

GDUERAL

INDICATE WETHER SUBJECT'S LANGUAGE

OF

ABILITIES

AAD OTHER CHARACTERISTICS. ARE SUCH AS HE COLED

A COLOTHY OR HIGION OTHEN THAN MIS OP.

EXPLAIA.

No

INDICATE NETHER INFORMA

1O PRO PARTS I AND US WAS DATAINED DY RESEARCH, CLANDESTIMI ASSESSMENT, FILES.

CORRESICODERCE OR OTHER WEANS.

Subject provided the information contained in PRQ Part I.

PRQ Part Il was obtained from Headquarters' file and the case officer.

OTHER THAN BOUTINE ACTION

ПРО БАГА, ВІР. ВИРІВ

No.

DEOUIRED. 15

OF SUBJECT IS EFFECILA,

SECTION IY.

GIVE FULL

4A1 0284,

**¡EERGENCY. CONDITIDS RECOSTACT ARRANGENENTS

HICOCRITION BICHALS, $/W- WHERE COULD CONTACT BE MADE:, THAT BONA F:IES COULD INDIVIINAL

MAKING CONTACT USES

In as much as subject is an American citizen, emergency contact plan is

unnecessary.

Subjeci can make contact with che case officer at the

ODACID installation.

SECTION XYI

MISCELLANEOUS OPERATIONAL DATA AND REMARKS

2650 HIGHEN APP

29 Augus: 1962

201-2718-011

---

