# 104-10331-10128

## Page 1

104-10331-107281

AARD.

Tru?

Assassination Records Review Board

600 E Street NW • 2nd Floor • Washington, DC 20530

(202/ 724-0088 • Fax: (202) 724-0457

MEMORANDUM

December 8, 1995

BY FACSIMILE

10:

CC.

John Pereira

From.

Subject:

David Marvell Dan

Anne Goodpasture Deposition

This memorandum confirms vesterday's discussion regarding the arrangements that wr

have made in preparation for the Goodpasture deposition. The deposition will take

place in Dallas, Texas on December 15 at the L' 5. Attomneys oftice. Jeremy Gunn will

the the deposition, with the assistance of Michelle Seguin. We have secured a court

reporter from the firm of Dickman, Davenport, & Langtord located in Dallas and have

confirmed the court reporter's clearance level of Secret with the Department of Justice.

For your convenienic, we have attached a copy of the clearance certification. As

discussed yesterday, we believe that this level of clearance will he sutticient for this

partcular deposition. We also have taken all necessary security precautions for

transport of the classified material. It you have any questions, please feel free to contact

us.

Attachment

Roson Meatbas: John A Junherm, Chair • Henry f Gras• Nerma 6. Hall • William L. JUvee a Anna K. Nelson

EXECUTIVE DIRECIDA: DAVId 6. Marmail

---

## Page 2

13-00000

1g6 11-160 8-A8 ali dad dise

I wits Mor

FAX NO. 2025143553

US. Department of Justice

WUUU

Mastery DC 10S30

D

ПFF. - 1 1995

CFC

4 1395

MS. Irucy Shyco!!

Serurity Officer

The Assassiralion

Rivier Board

5.00 E street.

N.W.

Washington, D.r. 20530

Dect Mi. Shycoff:

Ihis is to certify that the tollowing individual is cleared for

access to vational security Information:

NAME: Kir. Dicknan

S.SN:

310-72-1356

DOB:

08-05-61

POL:

Chicago, 1L

CLEAR:

secret cheurance granted 01-24-94 by

che Departnent ol Justice based on a

suli-field backg=ound investigation

by the federal Burcau of Investiga-

tron dared 09-03-93.

should you have any questions regarding this cortitication. please:

call Barbara Russell 01 202-514-9016.

sincercly.

Deparement

Reuben

Rubino

Security Ofsicer

---

