104-0192 10074] Penitet
rT TaBESESCi . 7

RETURN TO CIA
d Use Only

[ii.a}ss90

seaasanrte tind — >

DISPATCH

Ww pers a

MeO

Caer, WD

Chief of S:stion, Havana

HROM™ Chier of Station

J 1G-30

Fe Qporational/NVCAGS/IHAKS

| INOERIG CAN Ot 1U0GEO
‘QUAUTO HG. OFS ONLY

A. DIR 30833
B. DIR 32328

Le. Osvaldo DORTICCS, préaideat of Cubs, urrived in Lima on 4 June where he was
met by President FRAD0 and a sniful of diplomats and govermont officials. At
the Peruvian military's ingistance, no military honors were accorded. The Feru-
vin Government, sotidg.at the last wonent,. ordered DURTICCS* plane to land at”
Las Paluas, a restricted military duse, ‘and in doing 0 upset Aprista and Coumu-. |
nist plans to hold a dewonstration of supyort at the airport. Tue twomday visit
was garsed by a rather-cold reception from.the loval government and pross, with
only La Tribuna, the Apris-a nevepaper, siving the vieit front pace publicity.
In summary, S:atioa Lina béliewes that DORTICVS' vieit was a failure as far

increasing public eentinent in support of Cuba is concerned. : *

2. The Staticnts KUCAUS effort to counter any adverse effects of DORTICUS® visit
were instrumented by a variety of agents, The prograu was as followst

£0
ae. ‘Through GS-5, acca 15,00 oupics of 6 leaflet written by the Stution
based on Referoite A, were distributed in Lina on } Jung end 4 June. An eddi-
tional 10,060 copies ofa seater lvaflet propared by [DUKRER-3-were-also-distri~*-
buted. Copies of chese leaflets are forwarded as attachment Ay

yeas Oe ron ¢ :

be On 4 June[SYOECIMAL devoted his nooutime radio program to an attuck
against Communist Féhetraticn aid manipulation cf the Cuban revolution, The pre~
gre wus announced through pal: newspaper advortisements whica are forwarded for
Hoadquortere only as attachment 3, Reference B material was passed to (Cufpecin

F .
for his use on thie progrex, 02

0

Sq Moxos axa “cH, collaborating with Aprisie university otudents,
were respohsible fer erecting tw lorge banners reading, "Estacos con Cuba, pero
no al Coumisse", cue across the entrance to tho sirport ant anothor across Ave=
nida Arequipa, ona.cf Lisa's rest. traveled etreots. Those banners were put up
early.on 4 June arid later tha: dsy Communist teams managed to destroy both of then
put not before they vere seen by tuousdnds of peorle,. In addition; 30,0CG copies
of three other Icszlets, astacteents C. were distributed before and during DORTi~
Ces? vipit RIDULIIVSGS reported toat tne Coomnists vere distributing leaflets
of their oun, sttachaent D for Headquarters only, and one of his distribution tesms-
wes attacked in the viaicity of San Kareca University.

d. In gddition to highligting antl-CaSTRO, anti-Coamunist material on his

4 and $ Juno radio and MW progracs, [DUBHEAD also made use of a serivs of articles

qq froa Caracas opposing DORTINS'visit fo that country.@These articlys were for-

\ oll vardea by SeaticalCaracas|ani asie available to! DUBREAD vy Stacion| Lineal / (3) 3.

gave the articlea Yo AuréLic MISC Quesada of HI Cosercio, wo in turn presefted

fhe at the editorial board meeting of his paper. 51 Conurcio, taking the clip~

pinge oa an exaxple of hecispieric solicarity against DNICGS* trip, altered its

Own policy socevhst and in both editorial and news coluane attacked the DCRTIC(S*
Visit, ‘The articles are forvarded as ettachment § for Headquarters only.

& Vesa i [aes i

e. (DgRASIC, in the 4 cune issue of thef LICIZY-1 magazine, launched an
attack azainst APXA ard especially Amando ANVEVa for his support and promo-
tion of the GASTRO revolutics. according to[DYLIFURUE, this article was auch
discussed by the igristas, casitg a great many svccnd thoughts on the continuation

of AP2A support fcr Cubes
13 weak

yo30



CONTINUATION oF ESTE
DISPATCH i [rust 3890

oe

3. Tho Station realizes that a Bajority of ita JKKAAS progrem depends on leaf=
Jote, but it 1s believed that it-is justified whon the increasing amount of

Conmuniet propsgande being produced in this manner 19 taken into consideration,

Attached for Head@ui rs only are examples of La ‘rivisng's. ooverai@ of DCRTI
viett as well aa an-ézaxple of the type of Cuban propaganda which is receiving
attention in Peruse :

sa eaciegiy Hie
a, hihi
ty

7 June 1960

Attachmentet
Leaflets, Hoadquarters and Havans
Newopaper advertiseacrits, Headquarters only
Leaflots, Headquarters and Havana
Clippings end ‘Leaflet, Headquartera only
Clippings, Headquarters only

Distributions
= Tioadquarters, v/atta. as noted
« Havana, w/atts. as noted
2 = Filos, w/o atta.

Traneniie | a

