104-10172-10294

BRIRU SS Alta LY, f es
OFA YES ~ Grizoriy Te, eiuEtt a
mr : i

DISPATCH |

Chet, 8
Chief, »S

ce eae eer
{wr S\'208, 22 cerover 1959

22
2, Im bringing Headquarters up to dato reparving thel ARPA
ralstionedijy we would first Iike to nake a few cosmonts ou nrference clopteh
which clecusped the suitatility of a secon! Mic UIN.trip fOrUI/5. Head=
Quarters bas a lower opinton df {At]5.than the ‘tation haa. ¥o agree that
2p (2zY5 Ss prodebly unsuitable for say CE operaticn circeta! against Golub, -/
‘Other than reporting on her contact with hia, Largely beeauce of her personal
reluctarse to beccxe eny further tnvolved with him than she already 18,
However, ve alvo feal that she hee hendled herself fairly soll in a rethor
difficult situation. She hee never professed to being a Soviet echolar ss
uch, but she is fairly knowledgeable and convereant on Comnunist theory and
current polities and has been able to bold her own in diceuselona with Colubs
Sho 1s a prodigious reader ant keopa up gu all sopects of U. 3. political
and cultural Mfe, (She wae employed by/Senstor agcreonfor Washington State
to)

in his last campaign,

2. 4s far-as her overall producticn on her RLIX"IR trip ie concerned,
it de trus thet it was *rot startlingly incresaive;" however, no aention was
the inforastion on Soviet publle reacticn to the Yerlin crime sent
fH: 217 wee over dirseninated, Crented the Inicrsation wap negative,
it was contritative duricg unt critical period. In eny event
tals was one of the main reacons fur herotrip. The only other positive intal-
LUigeree we reported was included ta(cry 7 and 950. Many detsils were Locking,
a8 you yoiat out, but both sishtings were fleeting and ware mado wher she was
trovelling, Alec, ve would like to stress that the custorer evaluations of
CS 3/403,094, which included both of the atcve fleld reporte, etcted that the
report wuld have been improved considerably if detalle such as the oxnct
de; » arrival and sirhting tines had teon included. Cur field report,
22(rn a7, inebaled this information but it was left out of Keadquartera dis~
Seninated report. We will debrief her on thie particular aighting for any
additional information.

3. Teo abovo ecmients are acadexi¢ ani are not intended to puch the
poasihility of a second RFSSk trip, unless cove unforeseen operational
opportamity presente iteelf. we agree wits ice. thet ner potestial on einer
sounted trip may be limited due to her close contact with Golub, Although we
have never proaived ancther sponsored trip to har, sho has exrreesed rer deaire
and willingness to see more of the Sevict Union, Golub har aleo toid jer that
she should meke a return trip prier to her coparture frea Pinterdoelic)s bas
mentioned te Golub har dedire to perhaps travel scrosé tha traneaSiberian if
to Viedivostok and, traval connections permitting, continue der Journey seroas
the Facific to nar howe in hastingten State, (hie was her own idea.) Solub
fires, uncoubtediy in an otterct te tauress har, said thet he thousst he eculd
arraye if. ovever, since then ha has bick-tricecd am cald he heltew &
would Ba a little difficult, ~e aust Lf euch # trip wouit over be posible,
Dub Af br sume atroke of lucs it case about; ve fool 1 definitely vert: cur
going story nite ie

re
he GY+-coim Relattcasnipt Colub contlmace te son eys on a weerly
Desle st eiica Lies sue chves Ale beferaal “ay sith leteona, and he dn tam
te tescaing ner Yurrtans ceetings continue te be atrictly roeial, ant '
veld is etill steying ciear ef controvereial, politioni Unica, ee we teartad



insuiieardcten Sea ee
CONTINUATION. OF 22
orate i : Cra) azz |

0g

wz
taleral A132, pera ld. Fe ettLl appears Us be artrenely fora ot (uals ent
haa not raised any susniciera for sary montit. .nly once haz he mentioned
GCostilie by cree to her. This comerrmad tna jueident of the | arant -ermsteia
concert in Pelainks on & Letebar, °@ mentioned previcusty, “clud saxod
Costilie if he coul! got (esata for Colud se he Ard Voen nealing euch rood
reviess of the orchestra's perfursunce ir tre “ Costilio wr able to get
tum ant gave_tret to colub as a gift, fer sidch Lolub was acat appreciative,
Od ceru teld{Al/’s thet be had an extra tietol aiet Af ano hed no ebjecticn to
ming tee FUrLic pisee vith hin, she cculd hrvo Lt, A niunber of Lines he
OV avxed{E1)5 {2 she was sare she wonted to fo vith nim, Colts atteapted to
: cy

explas ner hew 4t weald look for an ancrican student to be eet with @
Soviet diploaat at a fimeticn which would undeubtmlly de attended by wort of
the American smbeneys >(45 5 etated ehe hardly knew anyone at the tmbassy tnd
wosides she was free to emer fricnie, Goiukobvicusly was culte dis~
OZ tarded that (AAJS would grt in trouble beice seen vith him and stated "You
dca't wsterstand. If 1 saw a Soviat student with an dserican diplooat, it
would be my duty to send the Soviet howe inrealztely. 2: 5 responded that
Abings were different for Auericcn citinens end. that wa did not live ta 6
police state, She atated that ehe coubted wary auch if anyone in the Inbassy
cared one wey or the other, Colub gave her the ticket and told her they would
moet at their seats which wero together. Turing the intaralssion Golub got
up by Marelf and walked around’ alcne. (a 1) vgteder Golub celled costillie,
to fevite idm to lunch. (This ts the firet overture Colub bas axde tovard
Contdlle since the beziming of Septasber.) He thonked Costille profusaly
fer the tickets, and Costille asked him Lf be was able to uso both of them.
he stated of course and that be had given the other ona to his Inglish teacher
amo was an American student in ileleinki. Costilie hod to 6h tured
nerest ond asked hin wio this wee, Colub Urea identified (AF, Di told Costille
what an intelligent girl be thought she was, that he had wet Ker on tho train
qouing fron Loningred, and Chat they hed bea anving conversation avenings
An England together, (he believe thet Colub felt compelled to briny this out,
ho had to work unver the aeguwaption thet rome Aserican bed seen bin with

or ase During the daseription of (42/5, he eada a definite attempt to iuprees

atille, his ealy contact at tho Aserican tebsasy, thal his relationship wan
atte above aboard and that he hed nothing to hide.) At his next necting

sith (ab/5 he told ber thet he had bad’ lunch with Costille, the yersoa who hed
given Big the tickete, nal that during the conversation it cane out that he
nad tax@A(At]s to the concert and that she wes teaching hin raglish, Colub
paid tot ad’ viee-consul he (Costille) vae responsible for the behavicur of

Amerieun citisene in Helsinki, fiolub added thet he trusted Costilie, however,
otays retponded thst Colub wo too big a thing cut of this, Colub hos
not returned to this iseua wilf[ar/5, mor has he euntacted Costille cince the

Tnnch en 1) GetobersZ[A5/5 rece! ved the inpresaion thr? Golub wae tincerely

‘S waa a nataral choice for him to take to t nest since his wife was

OLGNTS ewe over her being seen with him by an dgerican diploset. be fea) that
ul

in finisod end muse hae always baun one CT {Ar/5 and Golup's favorite
Qopies of conversation. ite gave her tho axtra tlexet only after he had exe
plained some of tie implications of her coinge

S. Toviet contagte sith other Pulbristt atude:ter Cno reasca uy Golnb
mor te Interested in [ALYS 40°! ne of cer wee as an ontre to oUer Pulbrigtt
ptiater ts in tat iAJLLI2, ETA 1 a, ve wegtionad thit Colud was
doatrou: of watiRE (22) 5's pood friemis, Identtty- Serlcr A)bL22 ond the wife,
ait he invited then over for a accisl eventngJU7Y5 waa ocnewhat reluctant
to introduce too many pecp:s to Colub ant consented only after she felt too
many refacals sould tecone suspicious, {veled i> ¢ bird persea to any ao we,
ecetaiy. be suz-weta every mizht in the peek until e persen can't lorleally
rove any were excheos,)22Ke Jatar Lavited G'S, identity A, we latter's aie,
ant Lieutity 220 of (OP JAI to the apertaent. st cre party vere Viktor
wiskat?, Yorke Ulebdia sot Viktor Cialkoraly*’, @1i frum the “owlet -mbesey
bere, Ine jarty wee rtrtetiy social, ami Ue preag Tietened te mushe prt
denced. Shree tuat tine .agal pan plored law lity ot Gyespanea ant tie wife

2



{ ujpv

CONTINUATION OF
DUsPArCie

statin. ne would ithe to get lecetion with them core + ured to tush up hie
tng dah. oun were sewesrst ecel te imi arerarl, emi iden atatat he was te
caeg Sith Nis mtuctes to acet every wack, legal 62s Leen over only one cr
twice to thelr apartarct. on ane accas Cer about 2 halt am
pour and Uren returced giving no excuse: f artene, Cualkorsdly hoe
called Iden 2A) ome or teice for lunch, Ga wasting are2Pirictly soctal
and usually onty caltyrel tonice are airccestt, Ise of (F A)KLI2 hes ore
preered Ris concarmn tated ever having too mec> contaes 1th Legal, @ lortet
eiplomat, but trat Rgetiags arm to be Barniags encach end the conver
eatlone ware intereoting OUR) in Seafing um isvcmmed of these contacts, and
shay seen to coincide sith tne ‘ioviet emphasis ta.

cultivating Western diplomats and other nemoftictal torelgners.

6. Berle Zobin (201-196362)"t1 sa hos been wet by beth[Arfs and Costd tle
socially, fa io about $°10", 170 Ibs, light brraa’bair \guch lighter in
golor then shown in his ECAP Notabook photo’, alia but aturdily bailt,
appears to be in good physical shape, rough akin, sharp, face. Although
Mo WDCAP chest states bu was born in Sverdicwik, Siseris, X15 believes
tht he te a KerelowFinn, He also told Costilte that-te had just returned
(sumer 1959) from a vacation in Petrosavodek, CeraidFlanteh USK. ie rpeaks
sone Pinnieh, a little mgiish, cwedieh amt Suratan, <0 is friendly, quiet,
moderate to heavy ancker ond drinker (he handles Sig Uquor voli), and doas
bet give the iapresaion cf being tco cultured ar overly intelligent. Juccing

by appearance and ire ays be ds not romeone a xarsen sould Like to nceb
eye

alone in a dark alli KJ met him once or taler at Colxb's apertuent and
again at the Soviet exibition in Melsicit. ke mo Miastiy to ner, but stild
standoftieh. Sines Flobia 1e such a differmnt iyze (aa Colub’ or Zegal, x75
saced Golub why Zlobin vas aleays included in teeir ecetel eventava, Coleyoe.
Feuponded that he did not like Yoblin but thst Iiohin alveys asked to come
aleng to practice tnciteh. Costillo met “lobia by chsnee at the restaurant

SB ihe Soviet axhiniticn, re vas with ‘egal ant Gcaitowly, and all thres,
uron Coatille’s Lavitaticn, joined Costille for a few trims. zlobin va
sildly friendly to Costille ant entered only oreasiceally in the corversation,
wRich was dominated en the Soviet side by Tegal.

‘Te Golub~fegal—ChalkovakyZlobineKikolay S. akerer (201-257422)
relationship: It 1e noteworthy that these five people spend so auch of their
ting outside of the office togetner, bhenever vali plans u pocinl evening

O2tor REYs, At in alvaya Unle group wich te Presest, te tae exclusion of other
gnsiKih epeaklag ‘ovicta in the Embassy, Costilie bas actieed Golub, vegal,
Chalkovaky ant tlobin together oceastonally eccialty. (Ss bao never ‘net
Rakayev.) They osteasinly are in differert offices in the tabasary (Golub=
seamulete, Tegal-cultarnt, Mekerwrwthud, and, tt ts believed, Chalkovaay and
Flobin are cultural’, tut perhape thio friendeMy stene fram another, artual,
daty rolationsripDIeeys-hes also noted the am! ex snr cession reves cee
wny th people were the only ones invited to hie partive fer weeterners,

Golub responded that (he Antassoior had made a special recusst for all Pabassy
Rervonnel to sake a ecacerte: effort to get out amt seclalise with Finns and
citer westerners and Unee peorle worw the only case interested 1a dniny 20,

ofhiys hes mada 6 special note of cbesrving Uheir-etti ates toverda one another
Wid inlerrelationstipe ard bac © ncludea thet Golsd ir cafinitely the
Gaalnent person in tne group and, {f they are working ciceely together, would
be the one ment Litely to be ctief, The rest of tse ALerareay in oreer of
importance woule be “egel er Mikeyev, Chalkovacy sat Clavliy -Ibtin. this ts
how 10 appeere to Costliie alma,

4, Partkér bho data on Colubs Coludts wife retuned to selsink! ea
Trerenher and suryrisas biz ater an abeence of steut 5 anctto. (4) 5OAates
that the ralatloretip apiesrs te ce An: mace ar it ess tefere Bro, folut lath,
Golub wee eled te Save cor Backs fle ital reterm sas met eres ed colusis
intereat InUYS Tent Ge vite ts as Prberd?y tevareP OPS as as colad
Selub @tilt tnitestos Us:t ce te coe fel a tronsler sapetioe efter tio first
OF the vert, <0 te quite eexious to ioe Finland ov an feale fou: years te



DISPAICH

too long to send tn sey ere placo, te la ntill tiling adcat § possible
ar Golub, cua

aesLoment ty Law Tord. 4b te Cots iis/oiub lint. roy
pletaly on his om, referred to tne (neident ducer: bei fa Ge ajeew end ocein
Wenked Centilie for fictng Ais up olth a date end for a nicoevening. te
teen told Cortilia thet he Axd on one ocearion phoned the xirl, Jue of
22 Cr ajaoro, ond Lovited ner over to aie acortment, They nad a nice tatizate
Sinner, and Golub invited ber to apeni the alrht, te wich ene agreed, Chey
want (nto the bedroa, Golub guve her bis wifo's pajamas and then ha left
‘ne ron for o few misutoa, hen he ea.n back he found her otancing nude in
the miuila of the room, celub told Cootilia Ut he immediately left the
roca, wont to bed in another bedrocs bucause "I Just don't vork that frst.”
id thst _io the lust Uolub han seen of her, eecording to hin. (ote:
rol (Haws n(Lrmed that the young lnty hed mot been called by Colud alnee
Ret evening.) ne final rote which night give an incteatioa of Colub's
importance in the Seviot fstasey 1a that he acconpenied Kikeyan on meny of
the latter's official viaits while he was in Finland, It te ken that bo
was with Hikoyan during the press ccnferenee and that Colub wae invited to
attend a mali diner party given by Mikoyan at the Soviet Rebeosy on 27 Ont.
oe (75 sev Cols the day after this party, and ho was eastatic over having been
ed to attend what he termed such an important ovent for auch a young nan
7

(himself). :

Williaa lL. Costille

