# 104-10518-10322

## Page 1

104-10518-10322

CONFIDEN IAL

DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY

HEADQUARTERS

U.S. ARMY INTELLIGENCE COMMAND

• FORT HOLABIRD. MARYLANO 21219

ICDSO-O-S

SUBJECT Frente Revolucionario Ants-Cossunssta en UG ° (U 1970

(MI8011

Central Intelligence Agency

ATIN: Liaison

Washingtoa, DC 20310

MNERS.L::3D

UST 151910

DOC. MICRO, SER.

120701

DeSS. (U) Porwarded for your information are tao Agent/Reports (AR3)

dated 18 and 19 June 1970, subject: MAGUILAR, Manuel (NAN); DPO3:

3 Jun 1929, Marianzo, Havana, Cuba.

. The originals of these ARs

have been furnished to the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI).

2.

(C) Aguilar may possibly be identifiable with the Manolo Aguilar

named as representative or the Srente Beyolucionario Anti-Comunista

'de Cuss I undusbered report, FBI, Miani, Florida. 20 Decerber I953,

"subject: Movimiento Revolucionario Frank Pais.

Roy Emory Hurgraves

is presuned to be the same individual named in unnumbered report,

FBI, Miami, Florida, 5 April 1953, subject: 30th of November

Revolutionsry Movement; and report 97-406, FBI Miani, Florida,

29 April 1963, sane subject.

(FOUO)

Records of this office indicate that Jose (NI) Pujol,

SSAN:

261-66-0168, was born on 1 July 1941, In Panama.

FOR THE CONMANDER:

2 Incl

as

Cente

Acting Assistant Adjutant General

822

2n9

B33N

EX

• 1/20/99

ES COPY.

CONFIDENTAL

2 AIT H/W

100-9-14

dM7 66287

GROUP 3

Downgraded at 12 year

Interrais; nat

autoralicatty declassified

---

## Page 2

NGET REPORT

PAR S 8-390.F4 39-87)

AGULLAR, sanuel (05i)

DPOB: 3 June 1929, Marianzo, Havana, Cuba

# RIPORI ONENDNES

a DATE SUSANTTES

18 Juse 1970

062-28-2671

the Miant Field Office, Region III, 11lth HI Group, Niasi, Florida, regarding

Informacion HE volunteered concerning an anti-Castro Cuban exile group called

Frente Revolucionaria Anti-Ceraunista en Cuba (FRACC) (Anti-Communist Revolu-

cionary Front in Cuba), of which He claimed to be a leader. AGUILAR, & jeweler

employed by Kappy's Jewelry Score, 1423 Washington Avenue, Miami Beach, Florida,

wao resides at 458 SW 10ch Street, Miant, stated in substance as follows:

In approximately 1959, SUBJECT halped form FRICC in Cuba when It became

inown that the Castro regine was turning Communist.

SUBJECT claimed that at

that time HE wag a nember of Castro's Naval Intelligence.

He alleged that HE

attempted to obtain help from the Anerican Embassy, but the only help HE re-

ceived was from & COL Sanuel Louis Bouque (phonetic), then the US Military At-

tache, who rade personal donations to FRACC but offered no official help.

When

SUBJECT could not obtain official aid, HE and the other nembers of FRACC went

underground.

Source declined to reveal the names of other persons in FRACC for

fear of jeopardizing their security since some members were still in prison in

Cuba.

In approximately March 1961, SUBJECI escaped from Cuba when HI Icarned

that He was beire investigated for subversive activities. Since coming to the

US, HE has been working wich about 50 persons living in various parts of the US

In order to send aid to members of FRACC in Cuba.

SUBJECT declined to reveal

the names of these members in the US. As yet, FRACC has only been able to send

very small amounts of aid to FRACC at sporadic Intervals and through clandes

tine means.

They do not have any stockpiles of arms or material and do not

plan to initiate any action without the approval of the US Goverment.

There

is no foral organization of FRACC In the US; however, SUBJECI claimed that

the FRACE merbers in the US could be organized and trained in a matter of four

or five weeks to send supplies and arms to Cuba. SUBJECT belleved that there

vere approximately 4,000 to 10,000 persons in Cuba who would support FRACC I

mediately ir they bad assurance that FRACC did, in fact, have supplies and the

support of the US. SUBJECT clained that HE was in contact with meabers of FRACC

In Cuba (some still in prison and others in high positions within the Cuban

m1l1tary), NFI, no were awaiting support. SUBJECT had no definite military

plang but believed that FRACC could overthrow the Castro regime from withir,

rather, than by means of an invasion involving the US, if they had the proper

supplies and support.

SUBJECT was referred to the Miani Field Office by Roy

Hargrave, presently a patient at Palm Springs General Hospital, 1475 W 49ch

Street, Hialeah, Florida. Through Hargrave, SUBJECT Det an Individual who

claimed to be a Captain on the US Army Reserves, not further identified, who

stated that he could train SUBJECT and the other members of FRACE.

MICROFILMED

AGENT'S NOTES: The Interview of SUBJECT was conducted in the Spanish

language. HE appeared to be sincere, cruthful and as completely cooperative

S turt

8. HIGHATURE DE SPECIAL AGENI

JOSEPH A. AGEE ANU PETI

Walch MI Group (III)

DAL 06281

OCT 1 9 1970

100-9-14

DOC. MICRO. SER.

---

## Page 3

14-00000

COMFIDENTIAL

KOENT REPORT

• MAME OF SUSPICI CE SPLE ON INSIDINS

•CUlLR, Manuel (Nal)

DPOB:

3 June 1929, Marlarao, Havana, Cuba

& DATE SUBMITIES

19 June 1970

062-28-2671

€ 120018 01 1AMES

FASCILLANEOUS) On 18 June 1970, Hr. Roy Emory Fargrat

les, Who resides

at 9515 SH 95ch Avenue, Mizai, Florida, telephone 226-4646, and who was born 14

February 1940 at Saint Louis, Missourt, was Interviewed in his hospital room,

361B, Palm Springs General Hospital, 1475 49th Street, Haleah, Florida, where

he is in convalescence fras a ruptured spine. Hargraves, sho has known Manuel

ACUILAR stated in substance as follows:

Source became Interested in becoming a mercenary in 1961. He later

cane to Miami and was able to gradually work himself into the ranks of volun»

teer mercenaries within the area who wanted to go to Cuba to assist in the

overthrow of the Castro regime.

Hargraves net Gerald Patrick Henning, whose

present address is 2668 Santa Anita Avenue, El Monte, California, telephone

4l2-3641. Herning, referred to by Source as "Jerry", is presently the presi-

dent of a Los Angeles Ironworker's Union but was, at the tine, working for a

private patrol agency, or Investigative agency out of Rosecead, Califomia.

The owner of the agency was FU Moses. Jerry was the organizing force behind

the volunteer militasy scructuros fron 1962 to 1964.

While working for Heraing,

Sou;se met Felipe Vical-Sentiar

who had been the Chief of Maritime Police

under Castro and later became

t = Military Attache to Colunbia, Souch Anerica.

Santi' 3o defected to the US in: 960. It was through Santiago, in 1961, that

Sourcé met 'SUBJECT who is also

now as "Minola"

Acccrding to Santiago,

SUBJEC- could be trusted, was l'el headed but was apt to disobey orders when

HE fe's that there was soreching more important to do.

Santiago related that

SUBJEC: had worked for Raul Castro's right-hand man, a seven-foot Negro naned

Hects, Aldaras. Following Santlago's defection to the US in 1960, he re-

peatelly sent noney and supplies into Cuba by way of SUBJECT.

SUBJECT was the

con'fit man and was sending out reports, but suddenly, without warning, HE

lef

the island and came to the US in 1961. HE was not known to lie about any

matters, but Santlago belfeved

HIS reports to be sorewhat exaggerated.

Prior to working under Castro's administration, SUBJECT had spent

rune years as a cell leader against the Batista regime.

It was during this

period that HE had organized a large group of persons who worked under HIS

control.

Source could not recall the name of the organization but subaitted

that the people who worked for HIM then are now some of the top officials in

the Castro administration.

SUBJECT approached Source approxinately four days ago (15 June 1970)

and related that HE had : plan HE wanted to execute against Cuba.

HE stated

that HE had the organization and the people and that HE felt certain that HE

could pake it work.

HE stated that HE wanted to take the plan co the "right"

DOWAGRAUED AT I? TRAN

BATEPYALI: POT AUTO-HATICALLY

DICTABUNICE. A00 D8 8:044,900

TYPEO MANI AND DEGANILAPION OR SPECIAL AGENT

GHARLES N. PHILLIPS, U1lth MI Group (KIl)

Billet Cined

DA, 2 347

PEPLACES DO A50 MORM 308, 1 8P487, MAEM AAT BE USED CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 4

14-00000

CONFIDEITIAL

ACERE DEPORT

ACUILiP, Manuel (Ram)

DPOg:

3 June 1929, Marianao, Havana, Cuba

# DATE SUMANITIS

19 June 1970

I CONDI SIMLA CA THE MINDEE

062-23-2671

people in order to obtain US support.

le related to Source that HE was willig

to obtain certain items frow within Cuba in order to prove HIS worth and abili-

Ey. HE proposed to have some of the top officials defect to the US; the defec

tion of the najority of a creu, to Include the Captain, of a new KOAY patrol

boat; and the obtainment of the newest jet aircraft supplied to Cuba by che

Soviet Union.

In return SUBJECT wanted a guarantee that the persons coming out

of Cuba sculd be free to remain active against Castro, as opposed to being sent

into exile sonewhere in the US. Addicionally, SUBJECT wanted to retain the

YOMAR for action against Cuba or be supplied with a vessel or sinilar features

wich which to operate.

SUBJECT related chat HE already has an island chosen to

use as a base of operations, however, Source could not supply the name or loca

tion of the Island.

SUBJECT retains a strong feeling that if the people who

defect to the US, during this demonstration of ability, are left to operate

against Castro, then the people inside Cuba will rapidly join the movement.

The defection of the KOMAR pacrol boat, as well as the jet aircraft, can be

accomplished in a matter of a few weeks.

SUBJECT is sioply waiting

for the

"green light" from someone in a high position.

As an addicional requirement SUBJECT stated that following RIS suc-

cessful procureront of naterial and people, li wanted i guararteed pipaiine of

supplies and equipaent from-HIS base of operations to the guerilla unfis operat

ing inside Cuba.

Proposed methods of infiltrating the material into Cuba were

described as beach landings, which would be simplified by the fact that SUBJECT

has access to the patrol schedules of Cuban and Russian vessels operacing

around the Cuban painland.

Additionally, SUBJECT presently has people of the

organization polsed to sabotage radar installations along the Cuban coastifne.

In reference to the organization, allegedly active within Cuba as

well as the US, and under the explicit control of SUBJECT, Source mentioned

that

"cells" were organized throughout Cuba as well as dispersed in the US.

SUBJECT has maintained contact with all of the cell leaders by an unknown

nethod.

liames of the members could not be furnished; however, Source stated

that he visited SUBJECT unannounced and net two individuals whose names he

could not recall, however, he believed them to be members of Alpha 66.

Source questioned SUBJECT concerning the men and Alpha 66, and SUBJECT stated

that lE would not include then in any activity or proposed plans because HE

knew that plans of Alpha 66, once formulated, were common knowledge in Cuba

hours after the plans are conceived. Source believed the name of one of the

Individuals was Minola P:y. Source also belleved that SUBJECT'S organtzacion

had a training area in the

Dominican Republic.

PUTATAINED AT

"194O7TAIL7

OPIO ANDE AND ORGANIAION DE SMICIAL AGENI

• SAGMATURE DI SPICIAL AGENE

CHARLES N. PHILLIPS, 111th BI Group (TII)

DA MR, 344] IRACES WO ACO PORN JAI, I RENOT, MANDA MAY BE USED. CONFIDENTIAL

100-5-14

---

## Page 5

14-00000

CORFIUENTIAL

KOLHT REFORT

(AN D08-4JO: 81837178

- 2P

AGUILAR, Manuel (NIN)

DPO3 :

3 June 1929, Marianno, Havana

CHiEROFILMED

8 DAIE SJ812.813

19 June 1970

I CONINO, SENIOL DAILE POLALA

CCi : 51970

062-28-2671

& BIRDAT CHANDUSE

DOC. MICRO. SER.

In regard to training of personnel of the organization, Source stated

thet there was a Speciei Forces Captain by the nace of Carl Hickey sho vas

slated to assist in the training of the personnel. Hickey is in a reserve unit

in the l'lant area, exact location unrecalled, however, Hickey has called Source

at least trice since Source has been in the hospital with questions as to when

he can set started. Additionally, Hickey has nentioned that he would like to

go on y "fishing trip" near Cuba; however, Source and SUBJECT have discouraged

this since it wouid "blor." the entire operation if an American military type

were caught and would also bring discredit on che US Covernment. Ccher than

Hickey, there are two people in Hickey's unit who are also willing to assist

and have rade their desires known. Sourco gave the names as follows:

SCT Gilbert (NI), a reservist who is also a police officer, believed

to be wich the Opalocks Police Departent

2D IT Jose (NIV) Pujol, 261-66-0168, 23 "D" CO (sic), Stu Bn I. S. Bo,

Fort Benning, Georgia 3:905.

Pujol is presently attending a school of sone type

at Pore Benning.

source provided the na-: of Hosp

Drarce, a ore-time nead of inter

gence "lor one of the provinces

i Cuba under Castro as a person that could

lend cadence to the worth of StaJECI.

Duarte is head of an organization

called, UNAE (NFI), located at 1J Box 8020, Hollywood, California, telephone

$69-0?.J, end Is also an author of a series of books dealing with life in Cuba

Another person knowledgeable of SUBJECT'S ability 1s

125% 334710)

Sant 530, brother of Filipe Vidal-Santiago, who was killed In 1964.: Ivan 1.

pres atly located at 131 St' 5th Street, Apartment 8, Miami, telephones 377-4610.

Ivan also gperates a

"safehouse" for meetings located at 498 NW 23d Avenue,

Miant, telephone 642-1894

Source mentioned as an aside that during the build-up of 1963, a

fmber of volunteer civilians was taking their way across the US into Florida.

It was during this time that three individuals fron California becane known

11113a pare Sen tated uson, song Findi quer

Laurence Howard, 12226 Pinévine Avenue? El Norto, coas

phono d2-6

aosassination>

INTERVALI- POO HUTSMATICOLLY

DICINGSTERO. 83) 9184800.10

JUPID NAME ANO ORGANLATION OR SECIAL AGENI

CHARLES N. PHILLIPS

• SIGNATUAL OF SPICAS AGINI

delhint lease

1Otы

DA 0 347

---

## Page 6

14-00000

CONFIDENTIAL

AGENT REPONT

(AR 331-130: FM 3683)

I BORAL OS SUB'CI OR INLE OR HOGOINE

AGulLif, Manuel (i:2l)

19 June 1970

DPO3:

3 June 1929, Marianao, Havana, Cuba

#. 6571208 5886808 0881l AssEs

Jit with sutreet 11201-255 411 in

72 pes.

062-28-2671

201-289428

R

According 20 Jerry Hemin, Doth Howard and Hall wet wiel:

ca Harve

Oswald In Texas nile enroute to Florida prior to the John Kennedy assassination.

After President Kennedy was killed, Henning related to Source that he felt that

the assassination was a Central Intelligence Agercy (CIA) plot to do away wich

Kennedy since Foward and Hall were believed to have been connected wich the CIA.

Source, at & later date, confronted Howard wich the question concerning his part

In the alleged connection with the Kennedy assassination. Howard "clared up"

and became nervous conceming the matter and avoided the subject completely.

Addicionally, due to Source's long involvement with military civilian novements

against Cuba, a man by the nare of Steven J. Burton, sho presently resides at

4829 Morella Avenue, North Hollywood, California, telephone 766-1916, came to

Source's home while he was living in California, following the Robert Kennedy

assassination and displayed photographs of Sirhan B. Sirhan in efforts to rake

identification.

Source was unabie to make identification but stated that Burton

was in the employ of Jerry Henning at the cime.

Source

was completely cooperative during the interview

and provlied wanes, aidresses,

ad telephone numbers frca = saall aldress book

In hi, possession.

He appeared to be sonewhat self-centered and desired to

talk sore about himself than Su

•JECT. As a spot-check for accuracy of informa-

tion conceining Individuals, chi name and address of Steven J. Burton, listed

above,was checked through the los Angeles Field Office of the 115th MI Group.

The Nich Hollywood telephone directory reflected a listing for Bernard Burton

at 48 : Niorella Avenue,

celephone 766-1916.

It is felt that Source was

conplately truthful in his answers and had strong feelings concerning che

Bb1"Jiles of SUBJECT.

DON'AGRABRO AT

0628?

¡PIO PLANS AND ORGANIIANON DI SPECIAL AGENI

ORARLES N. PHILLIPS, 111ch NI Group (JII)

SIG

ATURE CE SPEGAS AGENI

100-9-18

---

