104-10186-10076) ie : : a

aan TORY o ~ ; 4 591

é CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

Feline saree within ihe mosning of the Revionase Lawa, This
Any manner to 4m Uneuiboriead paroe to pronibited b7 law

fo temelinn afecting the Matiooal Befewee a

1a UOC ree Tad and Soe Ae Henaulaig we toreleing of whe
: : SECRET
: e NO FOREIGN DISSE

COUNTRY Cuba (REPORT NO. CS CI-3 16/00617285

suBEcs Toman DOIRAC Ortiz DATE DISTR, 10 February 1965, : \
ow NO. PAGES 2 ‘

REFERENCES * RETURNTO CIA
id Use Only

DATE OF 1 964 : * Do Not Reproduce 1

pace a Washington, D, C. :

bate aca. January 1965 RELD REPORT NO.

THiS 15 UNEVALU. THVORWATION. SOURCE ORADINGS ARE CENMITIVE APPRAISAL OF COnTEMT 18 TENTATIVE,

source, A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence
Service until April 1964,

Headquarters Comments

The following report is one of a series containing personality
information provided,by the source and includes supplemeatal
information from the records of this Agency.

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any of the
individuals mentioned in the personality reports without first
checking with this Agency.

1. Tomas TOIRAC Ortiz is a sergeant in the Cuban police who,
as of April 1964, was assigned to the Direccion General de
Inteligencia (General Directorate of Intelligence ~ DGI). In
the evenings and on his days off he works as a bus inspector.

2, TOIRAC was born sometime before 1926. He is five feet
seven inches tall, weighs 150 pounds, and has a heavy build. ie
has a fair complexion and gray hair. TOIRAC weets glasses
for reading.1,

Headg ters Chmments

1, A faarly reliable source, in a document dated 5 August 1959,
stated that one Sergeant Tomas TOIRAC Ortiz was an agent in
the Gambling Bureau of the Departamento Tecnico de
Investigaciones de la Policia Nacional Revolucionaria (DTIPNR).

2 In 8 report dated 3 August 1962, Tomas TOIRAC Ortiz' brother
reported the following information on TOIRAC:

“Tomas TOIRAC Ortiz is my brother. He is a sergeant in
the DTI in the main office at Monserrate and Empedrado
SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
Tae Tass TXEX Toce
TENS

me ee

Hi c1AA— Ata Th

fsa een Ta] We
ELSA, SOB j 14 EY fink — | L
faut. S3n— La} —“). Tea
WIL SAZCL-1S st RiD/AN 2]

Si aj Cone
4, RIDL

