# 104-10169-10230

## Page 1

104-10169-10230

SECRET

7 July 1965

RETURN TO CIA:

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce.

NEHDRANDUN FOR THE RECORD

DATE & 6 Jrely 1965

1. Subfoot enlled R. B. BANTIAGO IN/C/FI/ID case OffIcer on 6 July et

1500 hours to inform that be bad vory urgent und important informtion ha

minted to dinoum. Subjeet una asked 11 be could elaborate or give a clue

mn to whut 1t van sil about and he replied be eould not discuss it over tha

taInphone. Subject van then used 11 he could travel to Washtartos, D. Cig

mod be replied in could not mo it for at. lenst two days and nided that

no fult the inforintion vas too hot to lot 18 go that long a time.

Subject

unn advined that ho would be contacted by telephone later in the day.

Bub good ran cortected by phone at 1545 on 6 July, to ask him agat

unt do his information so urgent end when 1% Irrelied.

subjoct sold 1t

Involved one Victor ESPINOSA who was presently in lew York and that

ISPOSA vorked for the Agency and had Juat returned from Pario and Spain

and ond to see vannons from the Aguary.

Subject then gave a ESPISODA'S

mildrous and Colophone nmber es 415 East 5and Street, item York City,

Amlephone HA. 1-7845, 1e cone va vished to contmet ESPINORA. Bubject

238o stated that ba bad Bivon ESPOSA the Hanhington sterile muber dad

to mmon of l

9.

#jout telephoend aguin at 1625 to twer that ESPINOSA VIe "$

home at the mont and vas planntos to 80 out nad requested that someone

should onll. him. Subjeot van told that it would be disticult to coutart him

It the noment, but that me vould onll him in the morning of T July.: After

Aneussing ESPINORA vith HI/C/TC personal, 5 vas adrieed that subjent 1e

@ mulaontem and not to contmet him at all.

l. Mr, Joba CANTORO, W1/0/089, wus sontacted on the moraine or I July

1963, and roquented to contact JAI ilnimon and brief them that ESPINOSA

va annin trying to contest the Asaney and to please notify Durue in Nev

Tent of this tart.

Mr. Bus POPICH advised sr. CASTORO that the bureau

oneld not not an an istersediary sor the Apandy..

Do Too shore win sise aimnonê vita M

p0/ww/c/p3.

[. B. N8004] 03

feeindad tan salemialie

HAHEPAdAS end

SECRET

+201-285147

#o: +45-83-8-740

5/g0

---

