Project ZRRIFLE .

Early in the Kennedy, adninistration, "the Waite House" ?
urged Richara Bissell to create an Executive Action capability;
i.e., @ general stand-by capability to carry out assassinations.
The Executive Action program came to be known as ZRRIFLE. Its
principal abset was an agent, QJWIN, who had been recruiteé earlier

by Arnold Silver for use in a special operation in the Congo
a nmnal

(the assassination of Patrice Lumumba) to be run by Justin O'Donnell. q
: a

O'Donnell made a suey of the scene, decided he wanted no part

in an assassination attempt, and asked to be released, dditen

Bissell granted.

“The project rahe, ZRRIFLZ, first appears in the files in

May 1961, aithough the first recorded approval is dated 19 February
! 1962. The new pp/P (Helms) on that date authorized Willian
leyisu by memorandum, to handle the project on a special basis.
Accounting for expenditures was to be by general category and on

Rarvey's certification.

ZRRIFLE was not exercised in the Congc, because Lumumba was

ie

regoved fron the scene by cther parties. It did, however, find
: : c
a

fh

application against Fidel Castro in a conspiracy to assassinate

e

or to incapacitate him that wes already under wey under other
\

auspices. :
j



- SEGRE

aes

After Bill Harvey left Task Force W and was winding up his
headquarters responsibilities in WTVH preparation for

assignment to Rome, he wrote a memorandum to the Chief, FI Staff,

dated 27 June 1963, stating that the original justification for wv
employing QIWIi no longer existed and raising the question of
QIWIN's termination. The records show that QJWIN was terminated

by the Luxembourg Station on 21 April 1964. There is no indication
in the file that the Executive Action PEGS Capability of

ZRRIFLE/QUWIN was ever used.

on



13-00000

. Fidel Castro ;

Q : _ During the perioa beginning about March 1960 and extending

M through June 1965, the Agency engaged in a series of schenes to me
: bring about the death or incapacitation of Fidél Castro. These

are those of which this office is aware.

Miscellaneous Schenes Prior to August 1960
A scheme wes discussed involving contamination of the air

aerosol spray of a chemical that produces reactions similar to v fal
those of ISD. ‘Nothing came of the idea, because the ckemical :
could not be relied’ upon to be effective. Po :
A full box of Castro's fevorite brand of cigars was aa
with botulinus. The schene was abandoned, because there was no way a

of assuring that.cnly ota: would smoke then.

4
a of the radio studio where Castro broadcast his speeches with an

A third scheme was related to a trip Castro planned to
make out.of Cuba. Thallium salts, a chemical used by women as_ 4
a depil@tory, were to be dusted into his shoes, thus causing his
symbolic beard to fall out. Castro did not make the planned trip.

‘Gambling Syndicate - Phase 1°

The Director of Security gives a reasonably full account of
this episode in his contribution. In brief, the Agency MMIII 7 “
used Us efrisinal elenents that ee the gambling casincs
in Cuba in an attempt to assassinate Castro. He was to be

poisoned by tablets of botulinim placed in his food or drink.



13-00000

The Agency contacted the criminal elements through Robert Maheu,
then a aa contact ‘of the office of Security and later (for
a time) a prominent figure in the entourage of Howard Hughes. |
The Mafia members known to have been involved in the operation

were Jobn Roselli (involved with Willie Bioff in an attempted

shakedown of the movie industry), Sam Giencana (reportedly Capone's
successor.in Chicago), and Santos Trafficante (the kingpin of.
Cuban gambling). Those inside Cuba who were to administer the
poison reportedly got cold feet. This phase ended with the failure

of the Bay of Pigs operation. Drew Pearson knew rary of: the details.
Gambling Syndicate - Phase 2
The gambling syndicate operation remained dormant until
November 1962 when Bissell instructed Willian) Harvey to take |
charge of it. Harvey was busy on other things at the time and.
was unable to-give it eny attention until February 1962. After “
Harvey took over the Castro opération,he ran it as one aspect of
ZERIFLS; however, he personally handled the Castro operation : Cc]
and did not use any of the assets being developed in ZRRIFLE.

-Harvey and James C'Connell, the Office of Security case #
que

“?
officer for Phase 1, met Roselli in New York City in April 1962. t i

O'Connell remained in the operation for a brief period while the i

transfer to Harvey was being accomplished.



13-00000

ce

i

Rey

Phase 2 again ipvolvea the administration of botulinum, but
the Cuban geroling elesat was elixinated because the casinos had
been closed by then. Roselli worked instead through Tony Varona,
a Cuban exile leader who had become disenchanted by his prior
dealings with the Agency. In return for his cooperation, Varona
requested about $5,000 worth of arms, ammunition, and related
equipsent, which were given to him. He claimed that he had 7
aispatenea a team to Cuba with the pills in June 1962. NOthing ¥ i
happened. DUMSRGO MEE IER aa ae EE ORE
lenicinancensianmaaoaagent Varona reported in September 1962 that,
he was ready to send in another team of three men to penetrate
Castro's bodyguard. They never actually left. Harvey gave Roselli
$2,700 in December 1962 for passing to Varona for the expenses of
the three “militia men. Harvey and Roselli agreed in. January 1963
that the operation was hopeless YH and called it off.

Schemes in Early 1963

At about the time of the Donovan-Castro negotiations for the a
release of the Bay of Pigs prisoners a plan was devised to have :
Donovan present a conteminated skin diving suit to Castro as a
MAMN gitt. This scheze progressed to the point of actually buying a
@ diving suit and readying it for delivery. Tus technique involved ~

\

dusting the inside of the suit with a fungus that would produce a

disabling and chronic skin diseas (Madura foot) and conteminating

the breathing apparatus with tubercle bacilli. The vlan was



abandoned because it was overtaken by events: Donovan had

already given Castro a skin diving suit on his own initiative.

Desmond FitzGerald origirated a scheme. for doing Mil away

ATCT
with Castro by means of an explosives-rigzed sea shell. The

idea was to take an unusually spectacular sea skell that would
: é with
be certain to catch Castro's eye, load it yas an explosive

triggered to blow when the shell was lifted, and submberge it’an an

area where Castro often went skin diving. The scheme was
abendoned, primarily because the midget subrerine that would

have had to be used in explacezent of the shell had too, ‘Short an.

. operating range for such an operation.

Project AMZEASE - Rolando Cubela

Rolando Cubela was a major in the Cuban army, the highest
Cuban military rank. He was once close to Castro but had become
Gisaffected. He was first met in Mexico City in March 1961.
He attended the Helsinki Youth Festival in August 1962 and was
met there and subsequently in Stockholn, copenhagen, and Paris...
He was recruited and was given secret writing and demolitions
training. Oa a trip to Paris in October 1963 he asked for
high-level assurance of US support. Des Fitegerala met with him
there, ostensibly acting as a personal emissary of Robert Kennedy,
At the request of SAS, Dr. Gan adeea a ball point’ pen to serve

EY

es a hypodernic syringe. Cubela was to load it with Black Leaf 40.

|

@

A

a


13-00000

Nestor Sanchez save the pen to Cubela in Paris on 22 November
1963. Ironically, at the very moment President Kennedy was shot
in Dallas a CIA officer was meeting with a Cuban egent in Paris
and giving hin ag assassination device for use against Castro.
Cubela aid not think much of the pen device and asked instead
to be supplied with a powered rifle with. telescopic sight. He
later amended this request to include .a silencer. . The Agency
conta to put Cubela in touch with Manuel Artime, and Artime
gave Cubela a silenced pistol and a silenced rifle.. The tgency

also put down two caches in Cuba for Cubela, one with rifles and
# ‘o

one without.

The Agency decided to terminate all contacts with Cubela and
the members of his group in June 1965, primarily because they
were loose-nouthea, and it had by then become apoarent that Cubela
bad no notion of carrying out any of his grandiose schemes for
getting Castro. Cubela was arrested in Cuba in March 1966, ao
tried, convicted, and sentenced to 25 years iwprisonment. It is

likely that Cubela told Castro the full story.

EGRET

e

2

om
