# 104-10406-10257

## Page 1

104-10406-10257

LOUIS STONES, OHIO, CHAINMAN

RICHAICASIR PREYEE, N.5..

SAMUEL L. DEViNE, ONiO

STEWAH'S D. MC KINNEY, CONN.

мапід тиста гок

MATOLD E. TORO, TENN.

ROBERT W. EDGAR. PA.

(202) 225-4627

1:"

Select Commitice on Accussinations

Ul.E. House of Sicpresentatives

3331 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

August 28, 1978

27.038/c-

- 5€

-sE-

7 Am (nai

~ 2 Tang 197

ON S

0s11

Mr. Scott Breckinridge

Chief Coordinator, HSCA

Office of Legislative Counsel

Central Intelligence Agency

Washington, D. C. 20505

Dack F

Dear Mr. Breckinridge:

In accordance with Professor Blakey's discussion

with you last week, and in keeping with the timetable

proposed at that time, the following interrogatories

are submitted for your consideration.

Enumerate the name of any drug given to

Nosenko and the date it was

administered --

including those given

for

"therapeutic" pur-

poses --. from January 1964 to 1968.

2.

tions from April 4, 1964 through 1968.

OS.

to the following:

oMs. f.

a ..

where he lived

b..

the degree to which his movements

were restricted

& his contact with other people

his access to radio,

reading materials such as newspapers

and books

e.

the degree to which his actions were

"observed"

restrictions with regard to his food

intake

3.

Define Nosenko's present and

past employment

arrangements with the central

Intelligence Agency

- 0.

= CI

033k

---

## Page 2

13-00000

Mr.

Scott Breckinridge

Page ?

Include:

a .

the dates and nature of his employment

b.

the services rendered by Nosenko

c.

itemized accounting of all compensation

received by Nosenko

an account of the roles of Richard Helms

and John McCone in authorizing

Nosenko's

employment and compensation arrangements

with the CIA

On what dates. and for how long was Nosenko

questioned by the CIA about Lee Harvey Oswald

-- from 1964. to present.

"Te Kiann

When Nosenko was questioned by the CIA about

none thee Harvey Oswald, who did the questioning.

5E

What background, if any, did the interrogator

CI

have in interrogations.

What knowledge did the

interrogator have with respect to. Oswald's back-

ground.

c I

On the dates that Nosenko was questioned about

Oswald does there now exist or did there ever exist:

.a tape of the questions asked and Nosenko's

answers

•b.

a transcript. of the questions asked and

Nosenko's answers

C.

a summary of the questions asked and

Nosenko's answers

8.

What criteria, if any, was used to determine:

a .

what subjects

to question Nosenko about

b.

how much time to devote to each subject

9.

What significance -- with

respect to possible

foreign involvement in the

assassination

as to the issue of Nosenko's bonafides

the CIA attach during the years 1964-1968 to NO-

senko's statements. about swald?

10:. What significance - with

respect to possible

foreign involvement in the assassination

as to the issue of Nosenko's bonafides

-- does

the CIA attach today to Nosenko's

statements

about Oswald?

C::*

---

## Page 3

13-00000

MI.

Scott Breckinridge

Page 3

Her belief of teth

CI/SE

splicine

N5.

11.

If the answer to question 9 is different

from the response to question 10, when did the

change occur and why?

What was the CIA's position from 19.64

1968 on the question of whether Nosenko is

bonafide?

What is the CIA's position today on the

question of whether Nosenko is bonafide?

14.

If the answer to question 12 is different

from the response to question 13, when did the

change occur and why?

What was the CIA's position from 1964 to

on whether Nosenko was

telling

the truth in

the statements he made to the CIA about Oswald?

What is the CIA's position today as to whether

Nosenko was telling

the truth in the statements

made to the CIA about Oswald?

17.

If the answer to question 15 is different from

the

response to question 16, when did the change

occur and why?

18.

Why were three polygraph tests given to Nosenko?

What is the CIA's position with regard to the

validity of each of the three polygraph tests ad-

ministered to Nosenko?

Why was Nosenko asked numerous questions per-

taining

Oswald on his 1966 polygraph test

asked two questions about Oswald on his 1968

Helms taylor. o's

21.

Who authorized Bruce Solie to reinvestigate

Nosenko's bonafides?

22.

1968?

Why was Nosenko's bonafides reinvestigated in

OS:

23.

Did either the FBI or the CIA have primary re

sponsibility for investigating Nosenko's statements

---

## Page 4

13-00000

Mr. Scott Breckinridge

Page 4

canald,

about Oswald? If neither had primary responsibility,

"was there any division of responsibility?

24. What communication,

if any, existed between the

FBI and CIA with respect to evaluating

and/or in

vestigating Nosenko's statements about Oswald?

Thank you for your continued cooperation.

Sincerely,

I. Dohet Blakey

G.

Robert Blakey

Chief Counsel and Director

"GRB: kkr

Ther 9t 1600 67

---

