+ SyUr oS

wS/C 658s

pe ete

etieaptins $o-ase sell ginesd Sodividualn to iztarceas oh
ig Sohal? with high Jevel Us. covernacat etticisia, and’
that further Gpproaches are te be expected.

2 2 Bie Selinwing Snformetion is ‘purnished with -
, refersson fg fas tvoest,spprgace to you by Br. Marabel Biers
98. Eehal? of Berio Garcia Kobi - i

Be Marto Garcia Kehty ta yell Kuoes to the Apmey
ad a gifted echaricaten, who ia telented tn fapremsing
people with aceess to high level gevernuent-circles.
Eia seheass apoesr wo plassibie that daithe pest-behes = -

_ periodically gained access to UR. officizie tor diecussien
(po vane [goat zecuutly Garcia Echly ves the adkject

wee Repapeper pabhi counsetion partics—

-"" ‘pation un “Hints Men? setivities dacluding the saching
SES -Waeginda. 2 cre

Podta oee e SaO ‘rakatdsandidy -ehéin :
ey ee ee
=e ee eae eee eter een

arehn! Katy mide « POR ies caer to Hr. -
 Geergs Reedy, Preas Seeretery to the President on

29 Jano. 2965 using Hr. Deouis Chaves, sou of tho former
Seastes,- a3 hig intermediary, “A copr of the Hamoraadmm
_ to the DUCT -on this apgerench 3 attacked fer your

. andormetion,

3 j A ruyto Tamuy, Is trying to Jocate and recover the miss- $500,000 in American currency. With an outburst of
illions. In 1960, while be was still Vice Presi-- temper, Kohly ozdered the CLA representative out of

Coz



13-00000_ . .
ur Painaviaiira : 1 enn as 24

we Ge ERS S cs he
‘detentions of Sré Diggs.in the presesk eperetsh, of ef --.
Re, Canvex dn the earlier ose, inbaier.as istkaoesoeth-
ara repuieble indivyidssls and Sage prakemt y een ‘wetivate
to act-on bebgl? of durcia Uchiy bp ascess eoaraatios.
: : pepliyours

. Distribution: .-

