# 104-10104-10024

## Page 1

104-10104-10024-

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

SCOPET

BESPATCH NO

DATE

FILE NO

INDEX

"TOROFILM

TELEPOUCH

UFAA 3402

19 SEPT 71

+41-333967: 291-269397: 19-300-3

NO

NO

CHIEF, WESTERN REMISPHERE DIVISION

CHIEF OF STATION, WH/MIAMI

SUS JECT

TYPIC/COASTGUARD SEIZURE OF VESSEL IN

FLORIDA STRAITS

LO FOLLOWING INCIDENT APPEARED Y SEPTEMBER 1971 EDITION

i TAMI HERALD AND 3 SEPTEMBER 1971 EDITION MIAMI BEACH SUN: COAST GARD

STOPPTO 39-FOOT COMMERCIAL FISHING BOAT "BROTHER" FOR ROUTINE CHTCH

APPROXIMATELY 11:30 A.M, ON 6 SEPTEMBER 1971, SIX MILES NORTH OF CAY

SAL BACK IN STRAITS OF FLORIDA. AREA 70-S9 MILES SOUTH OF MIANY AMY

55 MILES NORTH OF CUBA. SEARCH OF VESSEL REVEALED AMMUNITION AND

TO PLACEMENTS FOR HEAVY MACHINE GUNS. THE 3,4MB ROUNDS OF

NORISTION WAS DIVIDED INTO 30, 45 AND 52 CALIBER SHELLE, BOAT MED

CONTAINER RUSBER RAFT, WET SUIT, CLOTHING IN DUFFLE RAGE, KNIVEG,

CUTICLES OF RICE, SUGAR, AND CALE HIDES USED FOR GROUPER FISHING.

COACT GUARD OFFICIALS BELIEVED BOAT HAS ON ITS WAY TO CHRA TO DROUTIE

CUECPILLAS "ICK AMMUNITION.

2o THE SIX MEN ABOARD, RELEASED ON $2,532 RECOGNIZANCE POND

P! WAS, MAGISTRATE JUDGE, WERE IDENTIFIED AS PASTOR A UZMAN

•CUZ, DUNER-OPERATOR OF BOAT, EMILE HIERREZ HELO YOLA,

RSIGLAR O SA, ANTONIO FES NANDEZ FROM MIAMT,

CONSTANTRICO FE MOND EZ OF PAROKE AND DEAN FOR O GTION

OF PRUSACOLA• BOSTICK IDENTIFIED AS WRITER-PHOTOGRAPHER

FOR

TRUE MAGAZINE.

3O MH/MIAMI HAS NO IDENTIFIARLE TRACES DN PASTOR GUZMAN

CRIZ: ANTONIO NO FESNANDEZ OR FERNANDEZ; CONSTANTRINO FEMONDEZ OR

SECRAT

TELEPOUCH UFAA 3402

PARFAYE

filed in

DURE:CACE CORT

19-

300-3

for tered manda

. =

---

## Page 2

14-000001

SECRET

TELEPOUCH UFAA 3401 PAGE TWO

CONSTANTINO FERNANDEZ: DEANE E. BOSTICK.

ONLY STATION TRAGES AS

FOLLOUS:

AO ONE EMILE HIERREZUEL O LAO, SUBJECT OF

291-333957, ENCRYPTED IDENTITY, POSSIBLY IDENTICAL WITH APOVE

SUBJECT ALTHOUGH MATRONYMIC DIFFERS, FILE REVEALS HE RECRUITED

COVCISER 1962, FOR USE AS OILER ABOARD UKLANCE VESSEL. SERVED

AFCARD "OLGA PARTICIA", "MAV LEDA" AND "M/V PETREL".

CURJFCI

IFRMINATED 30 APRIL 1966, DUE TO HIS INABILITY TO GET ALONE WITH

FELDE UPLOYCES AND IMPROPER PERFORMANCE OF DUTY, ACCORDINE

1135, 19 MAY 197%, ONE EMILIO PENALDO HIERREZUELO LAO,

PP 5-77-7515 ARRIVED MADRID FROM HAVANA 15 MAY 1977. MAS LISTEN

AC CURAN OFFICIAL O

P. ONE JESUS SANDALIO LA ROSA SABINA 1201-259597>,

FORM 6 SEPTEMBER 1934, FARM LA PARRA CUMANAYAGUA, LAS VILLAS

PROVINCE, CUSA, REFLECTS PERSONALITY DOSSIER TRANSFERRED MFATMHARTERS

MAY IOREO ADDRESS ON CARD: 1147 WOW. LITH STREET, MIAMI,

OCCUPATION: FORMER LIEUTENANT REBEL ARMY WITH GUTIERREZ ME MO YO.

EURjECI MEMBER SEGUNDO FRENTE, NATIONAL DE ESCAMPRAY. ACCORDING

ANOT REPORT COTA-2333, 18 DECEMBER 19779, SUBJECT LEADER ALPHA SG ANY

1IE OF FEW XNOULEDGEABLE OF ORGANIZATION. LISTED RESIDENCE AS

517 NO"', A3RD PLACE, MIAMI. INGLUE MESSAGR,? PEPRUARY

1941,

INDICATED LA ROSA ENTERED U.S. ILLEGALLY 2E JANIARY

1961, KEY WECT.

# LEWIS SO SHOQUIST, STATION LIAISON OFFICER, ADVISED

FUREAU OF CUSTOMS PASSED FOLLOWING INFORMATION REPORIERLY ATTPIPUTER

TO BOSTICK WHO CLAIMS HE BOARDED VESSEL AT ISLAMORADA, FLORIDA, 5

STPTEMBER WITH THREE MEMBERS ALPHA 66. GROUPE WAS ENROUTE CHRA WTTH

CLIPPLY OF ARMS AND FOOD FOR UNDERGROUND. IWO PLANNED TO STAY AND

JOIN GUFRILLAS FIGHTING ESCAMBRAY, BOSTICK CAYS HIS ONLY INTEREST 11"

THAT OF JOURMALIST AFTER SENSATIONAL SORRY, INTENDING TO FILM MISC-

TON AND INTERVIEW UNDERGROUND LEADERS.

SECRET

TELEPOUCH UFAA 3402 PAGE TWO

---

## Page 3

SPORTI

TELEPOUCH UFAA 3402 PAGE THREF

5. ACCORDING TO BOSTICK, COAST GUARD_ HAILED GROUP

§ SEPTEMBER ABOUT 48 MILES FROM CUBA OF ANGUILLA KEY IN

INTERNATIONAL WATERS. THEY BOARDED UNDER PRETEXT OF ROUTINE CHECK

BUT AFTER ALL EQUIPMENT FOUND IN ORDER BOAT WAS SEARCHED UNDER CUA

POINT. HE ASSUMED THIS DONE BECAUSE OF CUBAN CREW, CLAIMING ALL

NEPP TREATED LIKE CATTLE UNTIL THEY ARRIVED MIAMI 7 SEPTEMBER

WHERE THEY FORMALLY CHARGED WITH ARMS SMUGALING AND VIOLATION

(SUTRALITY ACT, HE STATED ASSOLUTELY NO FOUNDATION TO CHARGES

VITRE HE IS CONCERNED AND CONSIDERS HE VICTIM OF US. GOVERNMENT

BEFORTS TOWARD CENSORSHIP OF PRESS.

5, POSTICK STATED AMERICAN PEOPLE SHOULD BE INFORMED

CERTAIN FACTS ABOUT CUBAN SITUATION. ONE POINT BEING CIA

OPTRATING DN ISLAND. CLAIMS THIS VERIFIED BY LT. COMMANDER

HOLES OF COAST GUARD STEADFAST CREW WHO SAID WHEN THEY COPPER

ROAT HEADED FOR CUBA IT WAS PERMITTED TO CONTINUE AFTER SECRET

FASSUORD EXCHANGED, ADDING THAT IF BOSTICK KNEW THE PASSWORD TUF

POATE THEY WERE ON WOULD BE PERMITTED TO CONTINUE ON ITS TRIP.

COSTICK SAID WE. WAD IRREFUTABLE PROOF OF CIA INVOLVEMENT AT

PRESENT IN KIS POSSESSION.

7 BOSTICK CLAIMS THE CONTRADICIION HERE IS THAT ALPHA ES

CONSIDERS ITSELF THE "LEGAL GOVERNMENT IN ARME OF CURA".

THEY ARE

SURPRESSED WHILE AN U.SO GOVERNMENT SPY AGENCY OPERATES IN THIR

COUNTRY. HE WENT ON TO RELATE AN LAYAPA AGENT INDICATED TO HIM THAT

THERR WAS GOING TO BE AN ATTEMPT ON THE PART OF CUSTOMS TO INVOLVE

TRUE MAGAZINE IN POSSIRLE VIOLATION LOS. NEUTRALITY ACTO POSTICH

AGAIN REITERATED NO FOUNDATION TO CHARGE BUT STATED IF HE IS MAILED,

VE COULDN'T GO WITH BETTER PEOPLE.

# SHOQUIST WAS ADVISED BY COASI GUARD THEY HAD NO INDIVIDUAL

NAMED HOLMES, THE CLOSEST NAME BEING HALL.

LUCILLE B. MURSTIG

CECRFT

TELEPOUCH UFAA 34M2 PAGE THREE

---

## Page 4

14-00000

TELEPOUCH UFAA 3402 PAGE FOUR

ATTACKYENT

UNDER SEPARATE COVER

IDENTITY

DISTRIRUTION

VIA TELEPOUCK

• 3

CHIEF, WAD WYATT USC VIA WIRE

SECRET

TELEPOUCH UFAA 3408 PAGE.

FOUR

---

## Page 5

14-00000

E CRET

TELEPOUCH

SEPARATE COVER ATTACHMENI TO UFAA 3402

IDENTITY: AMSPAN- 12

SECRET

SCA TO UFAA 3402

---

