# 104-10120-10509

## Page 1

104-10120-10509

SET -

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Roproduce

2 MAR 1965

SUS-ECI

Federal' Dosesy of InvesElgetica

Marvia KarTOR, Poralbla Connoction to Invaatigatton

ol too Hervy sod Hasina OSWALD

3 as W.ed

01W12

ElEN

Releseuca la nado to your flla nuber (5) 105-77772, aubjects

Evin CAroB end to your file suaber (S) 105-82555, subject, Leo Harvey

COMATO

Ly be of literent to goar office to note too folloulaa

one la the background of KAVTOs and loe artay and Marior

OSWALDE

no from Provous correspondence regarding

KarToR, ha rapertadly was la Mask, OSSa, for sta

wachn durlag the sumer of sosa aad during the parted

L. Juno to 8 Septerber 1959. Although OSVALD apparently

did not arrive in Mask until January 1960, Marina

OSWALD, aceording to her own tentinony,

arrived in

Klans toward the ond of An anth 959?

In Interviews ca 3 and 4 Hay 1961, 1n Copanhagen,

Denmark, vich sa esployse of this Accecy who won

Renown

CO RANTOS sa "a representative of Anor can Intoll gence

TOR eloised to have been sorthin.

Chatear

hanel a croup of young soviato hot liplayed

Causual

curloatty aboss the standardos Lying La

che

Vatted States and Nesters Europe and choco Intereste

centered around airlo, cars, haylas& sood team

Ilstentag to jaes mule en tha Voica of Assrica.

these young soulets, eccording to KANIOR, vER a YOUrs

man naned Içor (LEU), "whose father was a Soviet day y

genaral".

•Ic Is lateresting that OSKALD also reportedly

11 30 ки.02

BIONWIZ

MECEIAED

1 00 089245

SIDI

IT ALVA

SEGRET

CS CUrY

3/0

---

## Page 2

Deuter:

ostlay as the

covinto on ala juarez. It sente

Anardens

colenalbly was a sorlos aray esperel.

.4T-U958

Rota CANTOs and oslAla lad bertod se enlared mes

Hand of Lee H. OSWALD 201-239248) while later n uss

toehicless in iso calced Aresos Partes Corpo.

accordina to

en 0297279710);

16 ABuOR 1966

JONESTLE DIRECT areS

nosho coplored by che Palterest,

cLueles

Colores et Lateras

restoratora 1a

the calvers lea

Salesco

deserter parian

Agasidias

sola marsal Sagita leoguage erres as she Valversley

COSE PUT DIRECTOR FOR TRANSI

Signed: John C. Mertz

JAMES ANALETON

CSCT 315/00225-65

018+1

ANdreaste

C/CL 120

C/C/SIC

C/C1/26A

c/sa

C/S=/CI

• C/SR/CI/l (hold ey & comoback cy)

SR/0/US/d1

201-289,248

-201-279,710

А 70И 59

SS/CX/BengarehY (A.BTaskoJoa 26 PArUSTY 1965

SEGRET

CS COPY

201279710

---

