# 104-10175-10146

## Page 1

104-10175-10146]

;:..

SECRET

29 March 1962

RETURNITO CIA

Background Usa Only

Do Not Reproduce

HEMORANDUM FOR RECORD:

SUBJECT-:

: June Sharp COBB

(201-278,841)

1.

Mtr

c/ww/ros, called to inform the undersigned

chat June Sbarp COBB was arriving in Washington to appear before the Sena:e

Subcocaittee on Internal Security, at their requent. She la being

asked to lestify; so far as is known, on ber connections with the Cuban

Goverament and ber knouledge of Juan AREVALO, forner President of Guatemala

and author of the book, THE SHARK & THE SARDINES, which Subject tranalated

Into Engllab.

2.

Latends: to contact It. Col. Alberi DAVIES, C/ITW/INTEL,

to request permission for the undersigned to contact subjeet if this 1s

deened necessary and in the best interests

of tbe Agency..-Ibe. undersigned

discussed the matter with Mx

his date, end rescrivated a sterile

phone number (ME 8-0469) formerly used by Subject, in the event she should

attempt to contact the undersigned. The undersigned was also introduced

to MI. George CAREY, Legal Counsel, who 1s Interested in sbe case. Mr. CARBY

stated that had we been notified earlier of Subject's invitation by the Sub-

committee, it would bave been possible to have had the appearance before tbe

Subcommittee cancelled.

3. Lt. Col. DAVIES has been informed of the above, and of che back-

ground of the case by the undersigned, and vill in turn advise Mr. HARTEY,

C/T7W, of the situation.

•

SECRET

Jean T. Pierson

TFW/INTEL/Research

*8903

201-278851

3/BR

---

