04-t0167-10190 .

e

chief, Special Affaire St
of of Station, IXdAVE ()

aCTIOM REQUIRED! mt:
Est 7 ‘Urea - or) October 1863

_ Mey 7 8-18 Ootober Bab ae o17sy

Baa He etober, ean

arte ‘AL DEVELOPMENTS =

originally ©

tacted by fficer in
suite of Tdentity® 8 ory AL] Case,
reported in detail in Ref B.., It later developed

was an acquaintance of AbeL]unhd wae subse ently put:
with Identity for training and sul sequent recru; tmente

ons cottiniss bervten AMPALAL and Identity

n aeons port t aaa other Bevly
recruite et regularly critiqusd as to the
valve of his infozcation and a

wien Teguiar guidance in
bgt i better strengthen hii value to ALM)" | Following is i
ba ieird with whom the subje

if céntact.on @ regular
Se fies itn whoa he corresponds frdquently: Ros

faye rola. Goat Q@enintcan ir Force
ile tree the Doainican Republic.
ell rad

o ousn
onay slesnpass ar onal nner
i ooelisece notte 3 who occasionally y vlelee Re ie ating
Ae: a
ae « Gatired poainics £2}
resides inbjuael aby seein nine copra
Doainican Bi:

yaoi 3228

tian ex:
eral Ha. sian wea x! ‘
rey opposition to Duvalier and ho visit ae to tines
“ecatimed
Aepaonaants u/s/e
Identity». «A epee

imestetnten aay ee Peal
sett ett ae wef eS

[3 3 = c/6as watton Usqe=

mes

ans

RETURN TO CIA
. Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

MraFle eDp-



em hane ey
Beaten

meek Meal rreaie’ yao now

rt etre Teantity Rater

: «
re as cover for his medte
ings with his x ant a aand in strengthen ng his position as &

terested acquaintance in his cozaunications with the aforenantioned Bub
sources dn the Dominican Biepebite and Haitle i: a
“yer Identity hes sented no problexs of a securi’ nature during
pe period ty Retilw and no proplens are foreseen ty Me cises He
ALH ‘Cane Officer only as “sorae® and masts Pegularly ¥ with
eecure conditions. .
b.. Budject has not yet been granted & agaui]e nya as was

requested in reference € wh: nana Se Ident: vie Fae Part II to
-Beadquarterss , % ABeud

“paring thenontns 6 in Ftity Ae tredited
wbaving Deovided PALM vith the fol: ovdng intelligence reporter

< UPC NONE. *VERKE to the Doainican Republic by
ie id | Unidentified Representative of Venesuelan
7 ae - President Romulo Betancourt?

UFS 8086 political Activities Against i civitten,
: : Junta in the Doainican Republic

UPS 8169 “Peraisaton for the Movimiento Denocra’
: ey Cristiano (HDC) to Establich a Cuban Baile
Base dn Voncsucla® and “Involvesent of
Yormar Cuban President Carloa Prie Socarras
with the HDC."

“NEG 4187 ‘eptans of he -Doalnioan Triuerinsts te Appofnt|-
pas * General Elias _tisseda y Weeain to the Poot
Of, Minister sf Hart.

7 ;
“pulegéd Plena ‘for a niiteary coup devat
ja Vaneauela® roo

*pieng-of Doninioan Hiiitary Leaders to
Sabotage tho San Seidro Air Base.”

_"Astesasa of the Asth of Juno Hovenent to
ter Recognition of the Toalnican
Fehewirere by qe Ue 0?

“SGubea Balie Plane to eet 6p achdntecsuntet
and Television Prograns ia
G48 Republics”



ty will continue to beret by AWPALed] until 2 March 2088
eticn.will be further evaluated and ke will be tur=ed
Te¥el] for handling ca @ perssnaat basis. If will bev:
GSRsTHY-L "who vas recruited fer a Jed ALM ]princt pal
cent to hancie sevaral recently acquired a: ie now undergoing
} training by aoeAbeLlia ‘en effort to better groom this agent for the

_ prinoipal agent Jodo eens?

UTURE PLANS . i . par
: 5 yeas a



4, aL uc sn SEERET : :

Wt Sen oy

ec Cover Attachnent to Orca cates

-

ain ec an 2 oF 20754 Cs Deen niean Ke Cubic?

Amiam, retina fe: coda efonty)

10. eine, Fuciea.

Dol-soi7sy -

bs

7
i

