SECRET FRPt 4p te eee
STAFF
é per,
2 C/LAM8 INFO: ODPDe=D, VR,» FILEs D/DCI, DDOKa, CSRF, C/CI=4,

/CI/OCFL, C/EPS/COMPe C/EPS/EGe2s C/0G/DMS, C/PCS, C/PCS/CAC, C/PCS/LOC,
C/PCS/PGL» D/OLC+ DDO/DO, ICS+ OGCH2 (34/P)

Cee e nee Rem ne er eons aewenenaensene

78 1o2ase2 : : PAGE 001
ToT: 2218492 JUL 78 DIRECTOR 261709

Soper wenn ew narennmenmncnnennenmeenawerenememennewanarmenannnnanmaan manana

S€cRET

STAFF 2216492 DIRECTOR 261709
Or IMMEDIATE MEXICO CITY. :
NTACT MEXICO CITY,

RYBAT WNINTEL

REF: MEXICO CITY 45940 1022224

1. FOLLOWING POINTS RESOLVED AT MEETING WITH ROGERT
BLAKEY, CHIEF COUNSEL HSCA AND GARY CORNWELL. DEPUTY COUNSEL HSCS:

A. SCA WILL CONTACT ANG INTERVIEW LICHANT@1 GN BASIS Hi
QUESTIONED DEBA GARRO DE GUERRERO GALVAN FOLLOWING KENNEDY ASSASSINA=
TION, HSCA WILL NOT REVEAL THEIR KNOWLEDGE HIS UNWITTING USE FoR
cIA THROUGH LINUFFel.

B. KSCA WILL CONTACT AND INTERVIEW LICGOKY=t ANO Lieut
ON BASIS THEY U.S. CITIZENS WHO RESIDENT IN MEXICO AT TIME SF
ASSANSINATION. AS YOU AWARE LICOGKY/1 HAS RECEIVEO WIDE PUBLIC! 1%
AS TESULT JACK ANDERSON ARTICLE IN “PARADE™ MAGAZINE ON 12 AUG 196¢
AS HAVING BEEN EMPLOYED IN CUBAN MINISTRY OF PUBLIC AFFAIRS 195+
60 AND PERSONAL RELATIONSHIP wITH FIDEL CASTRO. LIWUFFel WILL Be
INTERVIEWED ON BASIS HIS RESIDENCY IN MEXICO CITY SINCE 1949 AND iS
ASSOCIATION WITH GENERAL MOTORS AND AMERICAN CHAMBER OF COMMERCE IN

MEXICO,
é C, HSCA WILL CONTACT AND INTERVIEW LITAMIL=7 AND 9 ON BASIS

HSCA ADVISED US THAT
OUS TRIP THEY INTERVIEWED OTHER FORMER MEMBER

, MEXICO WITH ASSISTANC! AN AUTH TIES. yee
- REVEAL THEY AWARE OF FORMER

D. HSCA REQUESTS THAT RAYMOND H, GERENDE AND LIONTON@1 (IF
HE CAN BE LOCATED IN MEXICO) BE MADE AVAILABLE FOR INTERVIEW IN
HOTEL ROOM, HSCA SAID VOICE’ COMMUNICATION WILL BE SUFFICIENT, HOW

SECRET

G67


14-00000

. ( €
, SECRET
STAFF
owen ewer eee ree ew neem ecee seen neem sence rene setaneenenesarsueeenennescnnen
78 1024592 PAGE 002
TOT: 2218492 JUL 78 DIRECTOR 261709

oe Oe re Oe OOF Oe ee Oe Oe OO RHEE SEE ee BREEN ETA EERE EDEN ESS ESEEESeToEnEEnee

EVER, CLOSED CIRCUIT TV EQUIPMENT BEING SENT FOR POSSIBLE CONTINGENCY
USE.

E. HSCA HAS AGREED TO INTERVIEW EDWARD G. TICHBORN AS FORMER
AGENCY EMPLOYEE IN SAME MANNER AS DONE PREVIOUSLY WITH MR. CHARLES
FLICK. ET AL.

2. HSCA WILL ACCEPT CAPT, GOODING'S VOUCHING FOR BONA FIDES
OF GERENDE AND LIONION@1 WHO CAN USE ALIASES DURING INTERVIEW IF
THEY DESIRE.

3. HSCA CONFIRMED THAT THEY HAD REQUESTED EMBASSY YO ASK
MEXICAN GOVERNMENT TO LOCATE ALL BUT GERENDE AND LIONION@1 FOR INTER}@
VIEW PURPOSES. HSCA WILL BE TRAVELING OFFICIAL PASSPORTS, STATE
DEPT HAS NOT ADVISED HSCA WHERE THEY WILL BE BILLETTED.

4. IN VIEW AGREEMENT THAT ONLY GERENDE AND LIONION@1-WILL BE
INTERVIEWED UNDER INDIRECT (I.E. HOTEL ROOM WITH VOICE SYSTEM) CON=
DITIONS, STATION MAY BE ABLE ARRANGE SITE WITH LOWER PROFILE AND
BETTER SECURITY, AS WE SEE IT, MINIMUM REQUIREMENT WOULD BE FOR
PRIVATE SPACE FOR HSCAy FOR PERSON BEING INTERVIEWED AND FOR
CAPT, GOODING, TECH AND STATION OFFICER, HENCE APARTMENT OR SUITE i
WITH THREE SEPARATE ROOMS SHOULD SUFFICE. =

S. AS STATION NOTES, PASSAGE TO AG FLORES NAMES LITAMIL#©9,
LITAMIL@7, LICHANT@is LIHUFF@is CLARK FLORES AND PALOMARES PRECLUDES
ANY STATION ACTION TO CONTACT AND ARRANGE FOR INTERVIEN.. HOWEVER?
ANY INFORMATION AVAILABLE TO STATION WHICH MIGHT ASSIST HSCA IN
LOCATING THEM SHOULD BE PROVIDED. SIMILAR INFORMATION WHICH MIGHT
HELP HSCA LOCATE LICOOKY=1 SHOULD ALSO BE PROVIDED, BUT AS NOTED PARA
1 (A) ABOVE, HSCA WILL INITIATE CONTACT AND NO DIRECT STATION ACTION
REGUIRED, IN CASE OF GERENDE AND LIONIONe1e STATION WILL BE REQUIRED
MAKE CONTACT AND ARRANGE FOR INTERVIEWS,

6. PER PARA 1 (E) ABOVE, TICHBORN WILL BE INTERVIEWED AS
FORMER AGENCY EMPLOYEE, AND STATION WILL BE EXPECTED CONTACT, ASSUM=
ING HE IN MEXICO, AND ARRANGE INTERVIEW AT CONVENIENCE OF HSCA AND
AT SITE THEIR CHOOSING, FOLLOWING IS BACKGROUND INFO ON TICHBORN
CIDENTITY)OFOR STATION USES

EDWARD Ge TICHBORN (P) WAS HIRED IN LATE)

SECRET


SECRET
STAFF
78 1024592 PAGE 003
TOTs 2218492 JUL 78 DIRECTOR 261709
Cee meee eee eee ee eee Re Ren Ene E REE TES MEE E NESE Ben Een e teem n ew nenenensemmae
FOR AGENCY+SPONSORED OPERATIONS THR

LATIN AMERICA,

PERMITTED HIM TO
TRAVEL ON THIRD COUNTRY ASSIGNMENTS, WHILE BASED

HE WAS PRIMARILY A HOS ASSET BUT. IN ADDITION, ASSISTED
UNNING

REPORTING ON ACTIVITIES/ATTITUDES

OF FOR PERSONAL REASONS, TICHBORN

DIVISION HAD OPPORTUNITY TO USE TICHBORN aS|
ON ONE OCCASION, FILE INDICATED HE ALSO MADE MAJOR EFFORT TO DEVELOP

IN@-DEPTH STUDY OF THE EFFORT
WAS DROPPED BECAUSE OF RELUCTANCE ON PART OF HIS To
DISCUSS SENSITIVE! AND TO INTRODUCE HIM TO OTHER CONTACTS.

ALTHOUGH SCHEDULED FOR TERMINATION ON 30 SEPT 1967, HE FINALLY
SEVERED HIS RELATIONSHIP WITH HIS
AND RECEIVED HIS TERMINATION SETTLEMENT ON THE LAST
KNOWN ADDRESS (DOI NOV 1966) FOR TICHBORN WAS
RIVERDALE, NEW YORK, HOME PHONE

7. APPRECIATE STATION EFFORTS TO COPE WITH REQUIREMENTS IMPOSED
ON US BY HSCA AND OUR OWN CONCERN FOR SECURITY IN MEETING DEMANDS
PLACED BY HSCA, HSCA DEPUTY COUNSEL GARY CORNWELL WAS TOLD AT 22 JULY
MEETING THAT CAPT, GOODING, AS REPRESENTATIVE OF THE OCI. WOULD MAKE
EVERY EFFORT TO RESOLVE (WITH COS PARTICIPATION) ANY PROBLEMS THAT
MAY ARISE DURING HSCA VISIT TO MEXICO. IN VIEW OF THE IMPORTANCE OF
THIS MATTER WE ASK THAT STATION MAKE A MEXIMUM EFFORT TO ENSURE THE
SUCCESS OF THE HSCA MISSION.

.8. NO FILE, E2 IMPDET.>
ORIG: LA/MGSB/M (HAWKINS) AND C/LA/STAFFB (STURBITTS)3 COORD:
C/PCS (PAGE)$ C/LAD (WARREN)$ AUTH: C/LA/MGSB (HAWKINS)? REL?
DDO (STURBITTS BY DIRECTION OF) CL BY 029163.<

END OF MESSAGE - SECRET
