ES
Chiar of Station, [PortnaicPrince
tIC

" George DE MOREISCHILDT (201-72
“ea navn teas

le George DE MORBISCAILDT mai ling avsuciates outside of Haiti, Letters
received in care of the American Baoassye

ae Postaerked Dallas, Texas on 18 Peoruary
FROM: High Plains tiatural Gas Company
171¢ Southlana Cer.ver
Dallas, Texas

be Postnarked Niami, Florida on 2 February
FROM: 171/ Southland Center
Dellas, Texas

FROM: Dertmouth College
Departrent of Russian Cavilisation

Box uo
Hanover, New Raspshire

a& Postnerked erg tore on 29 reese 71 it
FROM rea’ west Warenouses, e fe
. * oon Commameclin Drive RETURNTO CIA |
Dales, Texas 752h7 Background Use Only : :
oe. Postacriibd Dallas, Texas on 2% February Do Not Reproduce. ‘
FROM: High Plains Netura: Gas Company
717 Southland Center
Dallas, Texas

f° Telegram from Chapes Hill dated: 2k, February. e
MESSAGE: *FOR IRENE STOP WRF GRANT IN BANK STOP RETURNING SCOH, MACH".

2_ Attached herewith for KUHLOT Division is a roll of undeveloped film
for development. The first tiree fromes are photograpns of the letter. of para=
graph one (a ‘3 dispatch, Franes four through seven are photographs of
the letter to Ds MOMENSCUILDT and s copy of a telegres sent BOYER, Minstry
of Finance, of paragraph one (b) of tnis diepatch. Frames eignt througn wwelve,

ca



era ae .
. : Taree oe
CONTINUATION OF i :
DISPATCH ! S2cneT t Ls ALS
are pootogranns of the letter of jaragrapa one (c) of this dispatch, francs a

13 througa 3y are plotogrepas of tne setter oc paragrapa one (¢) at this
dispavcn. It is requested toat Heaagcarters develop tne fila ana sem to
copies cach of tne four ietzers (a), (0), (c), and (e) edove to Cnef, KLDESKs
Gaief, Wd Division; and[Port-au-Frince Station,,

(6-%

Jlllaw Laos

i
Attachnents : i
Droll file

Distribution:
QOC/AURLIT w/atte

‘UDESK
ip > 78 wild

.

gone
to §3a Vee PREVIOUS goITION,
