# 104-10073-10400

## Page 1

1104-10073-10400|

SAN®

TO

WHiT

CHECK CLABGIFICATION

BAND. 13N

ASS FIED

CONDENTIAL

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

OFFICIAL ROUTING SLEP

NAME AND ADDRES

INITIALS

- DA-

Attras

1814 Quartere Jo

AGLOR

AFPROVAL

COLADIENT

CONCUARENCE

DIRECT REPLY

DISPATCH

FILE

INFORMATION

PREPARE REPLY

RECOMMENDATIO!

RETURE

SIGNATURE

Remarks:

attachas are two Belotypes (HYOR3040 and

mor 3110) and a nomorandun entitled plan

So overthrow Canta", 11l of chich centala

Lateration fran am bout Prans Florist.

A COPY Of MYOR 3040 u0 sini to you on ? laral

Rolai has offored to rolay Informatlen

obtaiaed thron an allogod infortant nos

Ra Cuba ti

in our flold offleet.

to Salslay Statoes, apport Branch, CD/00, 18268

I APE SC

FOLD HERE TO RETURN TO SENDER

FROM: NAME. ADDRIJS AND PHONE ID.

CD/0Ro Saprose

UNCLASSIFIED

CONFIDENTIAL

237

DUCED VOYE

DATE

3/85/61

SECKET

7402

U.S. JOVERRMEHY POINTING OPTICE: 1999--0-142681

10519

ПЕТРУТОМА

Background Use Oniy

Do Not Fioproduce

mc.

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SENT

KIL: CHECK CLASZIPICATION

UNULASSIRIEI

I CONFIDENTI

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGF

OFFICIAL ROUTING

NAME AND ADDRESS

--

Atta: M

1814 Graptoro Hyo

ACTION

APPROVAL

COMMENT

CONCURRENCE

Remarks:

JOIRECT REPLY

DISPATCH

TILE

INFORMATION

PREPARE I :

RECOMIRELDAY

SIGNATURE

Attachod aro tua tolorypon (MY0R-3046

We 10) and a monorandin

ant1tled spli

o overthre Cantre. all of which conta

aformation fres and about Franks Florio

A COpY OL HOR 3010 sao sont to you ca

norini has offored to salay inforatie

obtained through an allored informant.

La Cuba to eno of our Piold alfloor.

Intorestod in kvine to Pollen up on 4

Plosse Foforense li-105 is raply!

to salley storeen, Support Brand, Cu

FOLD HERE TO RETURN TO SENDER

FROM: NAME, ADDRESS AND PHONE NO.

& Stotson, CD/00. Sapport

UNCLASSIFIED

CONFIDENTIAL

PAPA 9: 237

places F'orm 80

loh may bo us

U.S. GOVERMMENT PRINTIN

---

