104-10069-10112|

eek. Bwy ysoor
Hast UNITED. STATES GOVERNMENT

. c2. ‘We camé 4n contact with.a new source who will be a continuing one,

Ymown as [Robert A! Pratchett, Ja US citizen with 27 years éxpertence in

G Cuba who-is currently in direct contact with a Cuban’ counterrevolutionary
/ |) group in the US kmovn as’ Alphs~66, and who is also in contact with enti-
Ua ee Gastro Cubans wor’ ing in Havana. ‘He will give us more detailed information
me during the:coming weeks, and: represent to us the. ambitions, operations
‘and proposed sabotage activities of Alrha-66 so that they can either be
controlled,” encouraged or discouraged, es the case may be from the
of those interested in Cuban’ action groups.

2. Bio data on Prachett, for ‘ny prior clearance or interest in
_ him, based on vhat ‘be may present to us for consideration, is as follows:

Date & Flace of ‘Birth wvana, Cuba (US citizen

3. Prachett, who appears to be a mature and loyal US citizen, is
interested in being of the bost possible service to the US Government in ,
a non-pay status, in asoisting vhere he can in terms of his detailed ‘

of Cubans, Cuba, ‘and the Spanish language, which he speaks
perfectly. Other than observing the plans of the Alpha-66 group es @
potentially: successful sabotage group, he is not affiliated with any
counterrevolutionary

Group, but is-now in business for. himself as a
rm-ha_cime'and operates, calle
He indicated N-66 plans

padi Srceee~

RET TO CIA
Background Uso Only
Do Nol Reproduce

a

