# 104-10178-10130

## Page 1

104-10178-10130

50.8030.

one.

В*то

ĐATHI

CiA:

, COMPS

Richard Obar

CIOP/DO

6537

19 April 1968

PH8-

ORIGINATOR

CI3

RID COPY

Tries natio

"SECRET

Г

PRIORITY NO NIGHT ACTION

MISTADE PORA

TOTAL COPIEDI

SECRET

C'mos 0 vestor

#ETURN TO

DC. D/ACI, DOP: FORD. CSIRF

Terate and lime todd

CITE DIRECTOR

93162

REBAT WOMUSE

REF: DIR 92664

A DOI 10-11

1. LNERGO HAS POSITIVELY IDENTIFIED ACCUSED ASSASSIN

AS JAMES EARI RAY, BORN 10 MARCH 1928 IN ILLINOIS; HEIGHT ANNEX

FIVE FEET TEN INCHES; WEIGHT 163-174 POUNDS; BLUE EYES;

RECORD COPY

FOIEINALINO OFFICERS

BILIASINO OFFICHA

SECRET

RSPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

'1-053÷7321

The UseNATO

Reclusly comr ma

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

99.

---

## Page 2

39 too

MASSAGE POMA

SECRET

omd.

UNit

axTe

BATE:

CARLA S8CRITARIAR DISSERNMADON :

I CONDI

INDEE

• AO 1908#

6N900

#ASTROT

#TURN TO,

P1a0 #10

P6S IN CA PAA NO.

HID COPY

I ro

Teles suren

Teste and There HEad)

overa

CITE DIRACTOR

93/62

Г

BROWN HAIR, SMALLSCAR ON CENTER OF FOREHEAD AND SCAR ON

PALM OF RIGHT HAND. IN ADDITION TO ALLASES CITED REF HAS ALSO

USED NAMES JAMES MCBRIDE, JAMES WALTON, W.G. HERRON, AND

JAMES O'CONNOR. SERVED IN U.S. ARMY FROM FEBRUARY 1946 TO

DECEMBER 1948; DISCHARGED AS INEPT AND UNABLE TO ADJUST.

ONCE CONFINED TO MENTAL HOSPITAL. HAS BEEN EMPLOYED AS

MATCHER"

BAKER, LABORER, AND "COLOR FIZZY. A DRIFTER WITH LONG

CRIMINAL RECORD FOR BURGLARY, ARMED ROBBERY, AND FORGERY.

HAS BEEN MISSING FROM MISSOURI STATE PENITENTIARY SINCE 23 APRIL

1967, CONSIDERED ARMED AND EXTREMELY DANGEROUS. CURRENT

WHEREABOUTS UNKNOWN.

2, PHOTOS OF RAY (LABELED GALT PRIOR TO IDENTIFICATION)

BEING POUCHED FOR LIAISON.

END OF MESSAGE

DD Richel Ober by Greatin.

= AILRASINO OPPIER

COORDMANHO ORANCEAL

SECRET

IN BY OTHER THAN THE SUING OFF

PROMIDITED.

AUTNENIICATING

OFFICER

COFY NO.

one mr son

---

