# 104-10104-10372

## Page 1

104-10104-10372€

UNCLASSIFIED

NAL

USE ONLY

B CONF

ROUTING: AND RECORD SHEET

MENTAL

APRET SENS SECRET

SUBJECT: : (Optional)

Garrison Investigation - Garrison/George Brown--Possible Attempt to Embarrass

Agency

FROM.

EXTENSION

NO.

Case 49364

DCS/Operational Support Staff

900/Key Building

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and

building)

2268

DATE

2 January 1968

DATE

RECEIVED

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

FORWARDED

COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom

to whor.

Draw a line ocross column after each comment.)

Office of General Counsel

Attn:

Mr. Greaney

7 DOZ EQS

200

copies sent to

IS Don Pratt CI/R&A &

3.

JOOS

CC:

CI/R&A

DD/OS

"Bill Gervage" is believed

to be William GURVICH, New

on 1/4/68

4.

5.

rison staff and investigative

aid at outset of Garrison

Investigation. In June 1967,

urvich quit Garrison abruptly

saying the probe had no basis.

6.

Attachment: HOU-251-67

7.

8.

9.

10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

FORM

3 32

SECRET SERSITIVE

610 USE PREVIOUS

SECRET

7 CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

Ected 25 Menant

dow racng and

+000204

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 2

OPTIONAL FORM NO, 10

MAY 1963 BOITION

C5A FPM& (41 CFR) 101 →11.0

UNITED STATES GOVERNMEN'T

Memorandum

TO

: Director, DCS

ATTN

: OSS (Grant)

FROM : Chief, Houston Office

HOU-251-67

DATE: 27 December 1967

SUBJECT: James Garrison/George Brown--Possible Attempt

to Embarrass Agency

i. This confirms Haynes/Grant telecon of 27 December 1967.

2. Herbert Frensley, President of Brown and Root, Inc., reported

to Haynes on 26 December that Mr. George Brown had received

a disturbing

telephone call on Friday, 22 December 1967 from Hugh Aynesworth, Houston

Bureau reporter for Newsweek Magazine. Aynesworth told Brown that he had

received information from Bill Gervage (spelling?), former assistant to

New Orleans District Attorney James Garrison, that Garrison might try to

implicate Brown in the "Kennedy assassination plot".

3. The allegation is that in some unspecified manner, Brown was

involved with the CIA in its objective of "covering up" the "conspiracy"

for President Johnson. Aynesworth said Gervage has documents, including

at least one in Garrison's own handwriting, which presumably have been

extracted from Garrison's files. Aynesworth indicated that, if desired,

he could secure these documents from Gervage for review by Brown.

4. In view of[Brown's] close cooperation with the Agency in its

Brown asked Frensley to communicate this information

to Haynes. It is reported to Headquarters only as a matter of informa

tion. Neither Brown nor Frensley expect any response.

5. Haynes asked Frensley to keep him informed of any future

developments in this matter.

He ERNESI A. RISCHE.

BenPHaynes/met

SOIRETARUE

5010-108

---

