# 104-10250-10086

## Page 1

104-10250-10086

SECRET

RETOri

Background Use. -

-DoMes Reprocuce

MEMORANDUM JOR: Chios, ISD/DD/P

ATTENTION

: Authentication Branch

MI. Jas Dect

VIA

FROM

SUBJECT

Socurity Oilicor

Chief, Secasify Rosearch StalliOS

Unknora Subject

Author of Aronymoug Letter

1, Recently cho attached andaymous lottos was roceived

by the Depaty Director, Mr. HELMS. Unfortunately the chvelope,

shicà presamably the lottar tao dollrored in was destroyed or

2038.

ShT. HELMS' bestelary who has had eccasion to observe

0:ba, such questionabls correspondence directed to Mr. HELLS

in the paa:, thought it a matter 10r lda Oflico of Security to investi-

gats and if posaible tbrough apacialised passonnel of the Technical

Servicos Division, attempi to analyso the handwriting as a scans.

of pasoibly identifying the outsos.

2. This suggestion in of couros quite valid, consequently

aftor conducting cortain research and discussing the matiar with

she Special Activisten Stall/Office of Personnel, enro Susplus

Employees (701'3) 5950 considored as possibilitica as the asthor

of tho aforamentionad anouymous lottor.

3. However, in all fairasss is in to be emphasised that

such tontativa consideration is at this time based on purely cia.

cumstantial and coincidantal factors-pamely in the firot instanco

that one individual vas, according to tho Special Activities Stati,

23 applicant for sho Desea Corps abcal a year ago, and in the

cecond ingtancs tba3 the oskar individual had in Augus: 1961 u301

the dame idontifying titlo a9 thas appearing on too Dottoms of tho

stachment,

GROUP 1

Exclanca tram automatle

dowagrading and

Costa silica: 3.1

SECRET

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECRET.

/ RETURNTO CIA

Background Use Only

LDO Nor Reproduce

4. Thoss emplojpes reforred to aro a Mi. Hermas

Edward KIMSET uho was released 20 Septembo= 1963 aftor his

servicos ware declared no longer roguired and al

tho was torminated on 12 July 1963 for the samo

232307.

5. In decking tbe absistanco of your office, you will

also find ansched la individaally namod envelopes evallably

bandariting apecimong of Mr. KIMSET and Mr.

would to appreciated il thoas forgone bandariting would be og

compared with the handralitos notation addressed to MI. HELMS.

Is is ol coarse realised thai sued en analyain based on she 1it2io

comparative material availablo mill prora to be difficull ba: you=

efforts sad evaluations

3 will ba appreciated.

6, Since tho attached handwriting specimens sie origi

nals from Security and Parsoanel filos, we would appreciase upon

complation of your need for them that they ba returaed so chis

OIsies.

Pas! I. Camor

JAM 07

SETTE

---

## Page 3

!

Background USe w.:

Do Not Reproduce

published thie itiin to

Lite, I thougonnight

Ladenti

Carial 701

OR. GOFFIN

author, Yaie's

outspoten chaplain, has served in the

ClA and Peace Corps. In 1961 He was

failed as a freedom rider in Mlabama.

April 30, 1965

The Baitors,

52'3 Varaine

Rocio Galler Concer

Wow

Vor, Now York

S:r5:

That caption under tho phobo of Dr. Willian So Goerin, Jre -

must tare cons shirase un thriverie b204

Finding mysel? jobloss in uno vale, of an internal political

purge in that sacrosanct sapor-dacrot aroren, i solecueered for

Gio Force Corps and was cold very overtly ly one or Surgentis

top serious - quito understandably - that day could not sirora

to Me contamation see antoine comicions.

---

