# 104-10192-10043

## Page 1

104-10192-10043

:1-3e6-2

i Nee Bernin

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

809 ÷ 3-128

ROUTING

ACTION:

IW

(COPY ISSUED TO IW I SDO AT: 2230, 17. FEB DD)

INFO:

DCI, D/DCI,.

CI/PS, FI, FI/D, FI/INT. 6, RI/AN, WH/SA 12,

ADDP, SOD 4, CA 2, CA/PEG, CA/PROP, CA/O 4, CI; CI/OPS, CI/IC 2

WH 8, VR, FILE, CS/RF.

I.E

REGRET 123322 it?"

'DIR INFO EÁCILANT CARR CITE WAVE SOLI

FED 18 d3i2Z, 65 IN 82931

ANE IFT

P INTEL TYPÏC

SUPDATA: AMCLATTER-1 FROM FRANK FORINABSIREER -

RID:

INDEX. FILED 172332Z

REPORT CLASS CONFIDENTIAL CONTROLLED DISSEM.

COUNTRY: CUBA

SUEJ: DECISION OF ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA TO USE A CUBAN PILOT ON

THE MIRR'S AIR STRIKE SCHEDULED FOR 16. FEBRUARY 1965

I DO!: 17 FEERUARY 1965

MICROFILMED

MAR 1 1965

C PADA: UNITED STATES, MIAMI (17 FEBRUARY 1965). CUFG-6727

"DOC. MICRO. BER

P SOURCE: A MIAMI BUSINESSMAN WHO WAS A RESIDENT OF HABANA FOR SEVERAL

YEARS. THE SOURCE HAS CONTACTS WHO RECOGNIZE HIM AS A CHANNEL TO U.S.

INTELLIGENCE. THIS INFORMATION WAS OBTAINED FROM FRANK FIORINI.

3P R

P

Y

P

IW. COMMENT:

R

R

KH/SA.

12

RELLASING I WEn DUn

E. C.M. DELANEY

B-2i6- 751659

1-98 1 389

DATE DISTRIBUTED,

18 FEBRUARY 0533 Z65

SECRET

TDCS DB-315/00576-65

TROUTINE

BASED ONI

I PRIORITY

UFG-6727

NP /AMCLATTER/1

LIAISON: 3:

14:300-20

AuToMAric

DOWNGRADING

AND

ORCLASS

1SFeb-65.

ТОНОкР.

(351

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

---

## Page 2

+ +1

3001

CONFIDENTIAL

rand

31FC. 19464

CONFIDENTIAL

CANBALED:

@ROUTINE

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

Intelligence Information Cable

COUNTRY CUBA

DATE OF

INFA

TDCS DB- 315/00576-65

• DISTR. 18 FEBRUARY 1965

17 FEBRAURY 5945

- SUBJECT

DECISION OF

• ORLADO BOSCH AVILA TO USE A CUBAN

PILOT Of THE MIRR'S AIR STRIKE SCHEDULED FOR

16 FEBPUARY 1265 Cy

PLACE &

DATE ACQ.

UNITED STATES, MIAMI (17 FEBRUARY 1965)

SOURCE

AND

REF

IN 82931

FIELD REPORT NO. UFG-6727

APPRAISAL: A MIAMI BUSINESSMANI WHO WAS A RESIDENT OF HABANA FOR SEVERAL YEARS. THE SOURCE

¡AS CONTACTS WHO RECOGNIZE HIM AS A CHANNEL TO U.S. INTELLIGENCE. THIS INFORMATION

WAS OBTAILED FROM FRA FIORINI.

TRA AT OUT CHANIA, EM I FELTY 1965 FRA FIORIN SAN

DE RESUPERACION REVOLUCIONARIA (MIRR) INSURRECTIONAL MOVEMENT FOR

REVOLUTIONARY RECOVERY AGREED TO LET THE CUBAN PILOT FLY THE

MISSION SCHEDULED FOR 16 FEGRUARY INSTEAD OF THE AMERICAN PILOT.

(FIELD COMMENT: THE SAME SOURCE REPORTED THAT BOSCH HAD SCHEDULED

AN AIR STRIKE AGAINST THE CITY OF HABANA FOR 15. FEBRUARY IN A B-25.

•AN AMERICAN PILOT WAS TO FLY THE AIRCRAFT BUT WAS TO BE ACCOMPANIED

SY. A CUBAN PILOT. THE CUEAN PILOT HAS BEEN TRAINING IN THE 8-25

AND APPARENTLY IS EXPERIENCEO ENCUGH TO MAKE THE TRIP TO CUBA.

This material contains information alfecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of she Espionaga

Title 18, U.S.C. Sece 793 and 79%, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorizid person

probitird by law.

GENTROLLED DiSSEM

GROUP T

CONFIDENTIAL

downgrading.

and

declaraineation

STATE/INOR DIA

ARMY/ACSI NAVY

AIR ICS SECDEF NSA NIC

TREASURY FBI 181S BOROFA PATROL CURTOMS

AD/CI 2

OCI

ONE

OCR ORR

CIA/MCC COAST GUARD

EXO

---

## Page 3

APO 1-04 (20)

IN

GENTRALED MISSEN

82931 -

CONFIDENTIAL

TDCS UB-315/00575-Ar: 2.

HE HAS HAD PREVIOUS TRAININO IN A SEA FURY AND IN A

TWIN-ENGINE

SEAPLANÉ, PRESUMÁBLY A PBY. FIORINI SAID THE 5-25 WAS PURCHASED

IN TUCSON, ARIZONA, NOT IN TEXAS AS HE PREVIOUSLY STATED.

2. THE CUBAN PILOT IS THE SAME PERSON WHO WAS TO MAKE A

BOSCH-FINANCED RAID IN A SINGLE-ENGINE AIRCRAFT AGAINST AN UNSPECIFIED

TARGET. THE PLANE WAS TO LEAVE FROM THE KEY WEST AREA.

3. FIORINI SAID THAT EILLICOHNSON, AN AMERICAN PILOT WHO

HAS SEEN ARRANGING THE SUPPORT ASPECTS FOR SOSCH'S RAIDS, RECEIVED

AN UNIDENTIFIED SUM OF MONEY FROM BOSCH ON 17 FEBRUARY.

4. ACCORDING TO FIORINI, IF THE RAID HAD NOT TAKEN PLACE

ALREADY, IT WOULD PROBABLY DE MADE WITHIN 24 HOURS.

5. FIELD DISSEM: CINCLANT, CINCSO, CONNIVESTFOR, MIAMI REPS

OF STATE, FBI, BORDER PATROL, CUSTOMS, LENS, AND USCG

CONFIDENTIAL

• (END OF MESSAGE)

CONTROLIED DISSEM

---

