# 104-10331-10139

## Page 1

1104-10331-10139

SECRET

6 February 1997

MEMORANDUM FOR :

FROM:

SUBJECT:

REFERENCE:

Fred Wickham

DO Focal Point for JFK Board

J. Barry Harrelson

DCI/CSI/HRG, JFK Project Officer

ARRB Request for Additional Information

and Records No. CIA-7

ARRB Memo dtd 8 Nov 95, same subj,

sub-para (2), The Mexico City Station

(attached)

1.

In his review of the history of the Mexico City

Station, Jeremy Gunn, ARRB Staff, cited the five footnotes

annotated below as possible assassination-related records

and requested copies of the source documents. For your

assistance in identifying the documents, following the

footnote citation is the text (in italics) to which it

refers.

Footnote 39. HMMA-17494, 4 Aug 61, Sub:

Data

on Case Officer work and

Operational Projects at the

Mexico City Station, WH/HO.

pg 38/39, Vol I. "The Cuban task force and

related activities caused an increase in the Mexico

Citv Station to

Indigenous agents numbered

Footnote 55. Ibid.. (Ft. 54. ISTHMUS No. 62,

6 Dec 63, WH/HO.)

Da 44. Vol I. "Täter in the vear

"In 1963 the routine reporting

of an operational lead by LIENVOY developed into a long

investigation.

A man with a US accent, speaking broken

Russian, telephoned both the soviet and Cuban

Embasssies on 26 September and 6 October 1963.

identified himself as Lee Oswald and Harvey Oswald.

SECRET

---

## Page 2

13-00000

SECRET

This information was cabled to Headquarters for traces

and identifying data.

After the assassination of

President Kennedy on

22 November 1963 in Dallas, Texas,

the Mexico City Station spent several months

investigating leads in connection with Oswald's visit

to Mexico. (55)"

Footnote 61. I&R Report, Dec 64, 185215 TS.

Review (I&R) Staff at Headquarters conducted a thorough

review of the Mexico City Station administrative and

operational program in July 1964. They wrote: "The

Mexico City Station approaches the classic type station

in opportunities and in operations. ' (It had high-level

as well as soviet,

Satellite, Cuban, and (indigenous) Communist Party

operations. There was local collaborative liaison with

other US agencies (the State Department, the FBI, the

Immigration and Naturalization Service (I&NS), and the

military attaches).

To accomplish this wide range of

tasks,

the

station was organized into Soviet, Cuban,

Satellite,

Covert Action, Communist Party, and

Operational Support Branches.

The last branch was an

operational catch-all responsible for direction of all

technical, surveillance, l

operations. In

reality, operational support operations were an

extension of the chief of station's personal

clandestine capabilities. particularly those projects

[involving

(61)"

Footnote No. 139. ISTHMUS No. 29, 8 Mar 61, WH/HO.

pa 229: Vol II. "Durina Februarv 1961.

$. * (139) "

"*Between 1961 and 1968,

audio

installations were made in Cuban installations

and

residences, but all of them eventually failed.

LI-

ROMANCE and LISAMPAN are two projects which provided

for short-term multiple audio installations.

Footnote No. 190.

Project LILINK, File Nos. 201-226902

and 50-6-99/1, Job No. 68-494/28, Space 60793.

pg 353 Vol II. "LILINK"

SECRET

2

---

## Page 3

13-00000

SECRET

Mr. Gunn will be at IP the week of 24 February to

review additional material related to CIA-7. Please provide

the documents, or a

status

of the search, by 20 February

Patro

J. Barry areason

Att:

Ref Document

SECRET

3

---

## Page 4

13-00000

SECRET

CSI/HRG/MAQ (3 Feb 97) (BKH-6Feb97)

Distribution:

Orig - Adse w/att

2 - HRG w/O at

1 - JBH W/O a

1 - DO JFK Team w/att

1 - ARRB Reguest File

SECRET

4

---

