# 104-10087-10044

## Page 1

1104-10087.-10044

SECREN

niof, SES

Nelene

- d REPRODUCTION

26 March 198s

PROHIBITED

in a telephone conversation sith

toriay she advised tiat

she had spent the everinz of 2ui larch in the apartent of Er. and irs-

Also present were tir. ard Mrs Xisaac don laviNd

rands represerts a resube of inforation on ars. Varina OsAiD as toid to

her by on LiVinE i"

INVIS has written a book on the OSaiD case which will come off

on the 3rê of April.

Ile has erent many days in the compary of

125. 0S ALD Who. incressed hin favoraily though he was rather restrained in

her coments on here

He found irs. UShail exceedingly intelligent, alert

and is well adjusted to her new riches.

The laage of her as portrayed in

the press is coonletely false, but LiVil does adnit that there is sore t

nor than neets tho eye.

asked Loved if he thought irs. OSAiD waa & doviet agent

and he said no but that she was a Soviet patriot.

Aren

countered

with the charge clat there is littlo difterence be rapised thet toro vas

a l'ina difference.

She then asled Latins if as. Win had boen or was in

contact with Soriota and LaViNG said las

saAD had not told han anytias

on trato

Several reuszaperren 2r

SAlD's story and liVINE to?

story of her life she had

shrank and so could get

sach otner to obtain irs.

sigued

a contract for the

He romarked that she sort of

hara

LEVIsE told

stantly steal no finittan ang

nicked up fron here ard ther

a viry unsatisfactory one and

two can who are with frs. UStALD con-

preters must be aotaired and tiey are

wavIne indiated that this airansenot was

tre

fact :bat le spoke fluent Mussian nade

for a harmonious intervien.

¿ VINE alao talked withers. PArt and elains trat she gave) hin

fiva letters uritter uy bee SAte and tat there loiters are ren evirence

and irs. (MINd had not (shown ties)te anyone else.

V. 1

12.

1102

Felone $

0001728

PAGE

COPY NO.

-of-

SECRET

---

