# 104-10239-10023

## Page 1

104-10239-10023

SEGRET

1 March 1955

WH. C * 65-91

LX-2500

MEMORANDUM FOR:

FID Stall

WH/2/Salvador

TSD

SUBJECT

REFERENCE

General: AMMUG/1 Debriefing Report. 0285

Specific: Agent Communications

WH/C Memorandums 165-86 and 465-87

(Not sent WH/2/Sajvador)

1. The LN Department hes no means of direct radio

communication with its own agents. I it wishes to send a message

to an agent, it passes the message to the Illegal Department,

and

that olfice sends the message for LN, either to the LN agent

directly 1l ha has radio facilities for receiving it, or to on Illegal

Department agret (with whom there is atrect radio communication)

for passage to the LN agent.

The Li Departneat, wten in

1963, for example, it wished to send a message to YON Susa,

passed the message to she Ilegal Department, which sert li to

an agent with radio communication in Guatemala to relay to him.

2. The Dlegal Departmont has its own radio abation for

communicaton with 1tg agents.

The station is not in any of the

headquarters' bulldings; Its actual location ts not known, Even

when the Illegal Department and the LN Departmect were com-

bined in the MA Section and shared offices, the members of the

section handhing legal agents were very unwilling in talk about

communications in any way,

In the Zapote Operatior agent communication broke

down because of several factors.

the there agents

in the caration were to use tha same past oldes bex as a cover

address, but each agent was laught a reparair sw system The

Chemical Lavoratory (LQ) had a recurd of each syniem agains:

the agent's pseudonym,

as well as examples

of his hardwrite be all

under the heading of the Zapote Operaton.

SECRET

---

## Page 2

td-nn0d

= 2-

6. It sis planned that Rigur DALTON, "MONTENEGRO, "

the principal agent in the Zapole Operation, was en do the doller

writra, the other too axents were do pass their idormation lo

The first letter recelved at DGI (Cuhan Intelligence Service)

headguarters was picked up al the accommod tun address in

Mexice and forwarded to Havana, where through sume corfusion

It was misrouled to the Dlegal Department From there i was

eventually forwarded to LN. The Salvador Desk officer gent the

letter ir its envelope to LA requesting processing and identuying

the letter as belunging to the Zapote case, from SARAVIA (the"

second agert), and ashing notification as so whether the letter

contained secret writing.

The LQ andlysts, examining the letter,

equated Zapote and "MONTENEGRO" (although SARAVLA was

also part of the Zapote Operation) but checked with the desk

officer and with him agreed to develop the secret writing with the

SARA VLA developer.

They believed that the letter contained

secret writing because it was folded with the loyal text ourside

and the b'ank side inside as If to protect a secret text.

the letter was tested with the SARA VIA developer, however, no

Becret wriung appearta.

• The techntchane then tried it wich the

"MONTENEGRO' developer, lul by this time any secres wrils

the lotter contaied lad been destroyed by the Ircorrect process

They identified the handwriting as that of SARAVIA, and the

text indicated thar there wis ans # enclosure. Mearwhile,

"MAURICIO" had reported from Mexico that DALTON had been

arrested and deported from El Salvador.

A second letter from SARAVLA was also received a:d

testert with the SARA Vla developer.

Although there were in-

dications that it contained sw, nothing could be recovered.

There was ros. on the envelope,

which had not boen opened. A

third leiter from SARAVIA, folded In the furm to contair g'w,

was also dereloped and showed stgns if s/" but so taint that le

could not be read. The desk officer thought that perhaps when

DALTON BE arreSted SARAVLA had later over his s/# And was

using 1l Irailad of his own.

The 1a dialyst e remented that

SARAVIA was using for commumrator with Del headquarters 1

system that he had been laught fur use unly in internal com-

municatons in bl salvador sod thal he should he toid to use the

pr per spstem for beadduarters. The dest officer,

hissess

har to means of communicaties wuh tre agent since the 5 w

messages could not bo read, A system of recreatioo for

SEGRET

---

## Page 3

personal meetinga with the agents in El Salvador was Included la

the operational program for Zapole, but that meant an intermediary

or the case officer going to El Salvader for the contact, since

DALTON was out of El Salvador and other meins of communicadon

was lost, DALTON was ordered to Mexico and the desk officer

arranged a trip there to get explanitiona of what had happened and

reestablish mall communication

When the desk officer went to

Merico for the meeting in March 1004; however; DALTON and

the other Salvado-ana he wanted to see did not show up.

The case

allicer also wrote a still memorandum to PINEIRO complaining

about the quallty of the s/w systems and training. His letter

was returned with an endorsement by PINEIRO saying that the

matter was being looked into and results could be expected. Up

to April 1064, bowever, nothing concrete had been achieved, as

r an the deak officer knew; he heard nothing from In and was

unable to resolve the matter directly with the agent in Mexico

because the agent never appeared for the scheduled meeting.

6. All agent sommunications from the fleld to accom-

modation addresses in Mexico or elsewhere are picked up and

forwarded through the field slation to headquarters without being

opened. In the Sonia Operation, for example, when the agent

wanted a meeting in Mexico, she sent a letter to hor accom

modation sddresa there; the lette.' ms picked up and forwarded

to headquarters; when it had been developed at headquarters,

the desk officer informed the case ollicer In Mesico of the time,

date, and place set by lne agent for the meeting.

• In no case

does the field atalion opon and read uny agent cortespondence.

7. In the Lapoto Operation, all agent personal documents

were picked up during the training pertod and ware photographed for .

the agent's file. When the agent lait Cuba to return to his opera-

(lonal area, the personal documents such do the cedula de

Identidad were returned to him.

C/Wi/C/RR/08

322:81

• .

188 -t

---

