# 104-10112-10291

## Page 1

104-10112-10291

DDS/185

ADDS/I&S

Chief/SSD

Dep Chief

A to Chief

Ch. C&R

Ch. SRD

Ch. Inv. Br.

Ch. Sup. Ar.

Desk 18-3

Desk SB

Ad & Trng

I Control fed

Files

S-E-C-R-E-T

(When Filled In)

RETURN TO CLA

Background Use Only

• Do Not Reproduce

2 Y JUN 1959

MEMORANDUM FOR: CheI, CI/OA

FROM

: Deputy Director of Security (Investigations

and Support)

SUBJECT

C-25507

#11.2569

I. Reference in made to a nemorandun dated 17 April 1958 from

WH Division through cI/ld requesting that the Covart Seourity Approval

granted on 3 July 1957 be amended to permit Subject'a utilization as

a career agent 1n

76-3

confire the verbal Covert Security Approval granted

WE Division on 3 June 1958 for the use deseribed

to Hre

above

In accordance with the provisions set forth in Clandestine

Services Instruction No. 10-5 and Clandestine Services Instruction -

Field No. 10-5, a covert security approval is granted for the use of

the Subject, as described In your request as set forth in paragraph 1,

above.

Subjects of covert security approvals are not to represent

themselves as, nor are they to be represented as, employees of CIA.

Your attention is called to the fact that a covert security

approval does not constitute complete compliance with the provisions

of CIA Regulation 10-210. Therefore, 11 you should desire at & later

date to change the status or use of this individual, a request for

approval to cover any proposed change should be submitted to this

office.

5. This approval becomes invalid in the event the Subject's

services are not utilized within six months of the date of this

memorandum.

FOR THE DIRECTOR OF SECURITY:

CLOSED

BOLLING :ell

26 June 1959

Just is. cuntrehan

S-E-C-R-ET

---

