# 104-10177-10035

## Page 1

104-10177-10035

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

JATE

BAS BP

DIRECTOR

K Tele

ground user

Reproduce

"To:

ANG 7 23142 59

PRIORITY

54 0 6/02 SUPE: 0/0

15: 11350 0653

CITE.

:: DIR

HAVA

1 COCATH ATTACHE INFOMEO 6 AUGUST ET LT CION MAINS VASELA CANOSA, CIEN

NAVAL ATTACHE, MO CAPT MANUEL VILLARA MISTINEZ, CUBAN AIR ATTACHE, TISIR

•DECISION GREAK: WITH ELDEL CASTRO BUT VILLING SON IN IN PLACE TO REPORT VITAL INFO

TO COYOKE, NO COYOKE CONMITNENT ASNED BY SURIS. DOGATH ATTACHE WILL HANOLE

AGENTS AND STATICINILL PROVIDE QUIDANCE ANO DE KEPT MELY IPOMEO.

2. INFO REPORTED FIRST MEETING INCLUDES:

A PILLAR LIVES WITH NO SILITARY ATTACHES, (VICTOR GARCIA VIONE

ANOL) GIL LINO SUAREZ HERMANDEZ, BOTH OF WHOM ANE/CONIES SUAREZ TOLO

LILIANA HE FORGERLY WITH RAUL: CASTED IN CORLE YOUTH MOVEMENT

VILLAFANA: SAM 25,000 NEW SOVIET RIFLES FUR CUDAR ART. OLD RIFLES BENG SINON TO

PEASANTS.

- BOTH ATTACHES AGREE CASTROAMN CONTAINS. 5,000 ANTI CASTRO MEN

LEANS ARE CUTIEREZ KENOTO ANO VILIAN MORGAN SEPTA UNDER COY BARQUIS GO 15 10

CARIS AND YS HEY ANIL CASTRO LEADER.

SOVIETS PREPARING SIZEABLE DOLLAR AID TO CUP CUBX THE UCH CURRENT

ECONCHIC CRISIS.

C. CASSADOR) SALYADOR PASSIR AS MISCIVINOS OI CUPAN SITUATICH BUT MUS

LITIC ATIRIT SINCE MS IS CO AS DENS, NOT

HEY 2GD S REAOOUCTION &Y OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITO SPEE

---

## Page 2

•CLASSIFIED

MESSAGE

5-CoCifi-E-T

H300

ACTION

At CE 8 08,

sim is

'It Be" sorting.

• PAGE 2

21-3

HEXT 424% 1N: 81350

VARELA FAMILY WITH HIM: BUT VILLAFANA DIVORCED FROM FANILY NOW: IN.

CUAA®

4. FOR HAVA: THIS INTO NOT SENT BY COATH ATTACHE TO HAVA AND IS NOT

TO BE RELEASED TO ANY DOYOKE AGENGY. HAYA:

CiD OF MESSAGE

IS 1389 PRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Cepy No

---

