# 104-10326-10018

## Page 1

104-10326-10018

28-0430861

SENSIND:

SECRET

SECRET

PAGE:

1

STAFF

CONE :

INFO:

MDSX, ODPD, FILE,

LIMITED,

(77P)

98

0430861

ASO

PAGE 001

TOT:

041406Z

FER

98

DIRECTOR: 674771

SE

CRE T

STAFF

TO:

IMMEDIATE/

0414072. DIRECTOR 674771

FROM: LIMITED DISSEM IMS/ESG INFO DO/IRO, CHIEF/LA, LA/FIG,

LA/FIGSC, CIC/LA, CIC/EUR, EUR/SG, EUR/SGF, CHIEF/EUR, DC/EUR,

C/CE/R/XO

SLUGS: WNINTEL

SUBJECT: CONTINUED PROTECTION OF COVER AS METHOD

REF: NONE

TEXT:

1.

ACTION REQUIRED:

MEET THE BOARD-IMPOSED DEADLINE.

NEED YOUR RESPONSE NLT 9 FEBRUARY, TO

THE<JFK ASSASSINATION>RECORDS REVIEW BOARD (ARRB) IS A

PRESIDENTIALLY-APPOINTED BOARD WHICH IS RESPONSIBLE FOR RELEASING

*ALL RECORDS RELATING TO THE<ASSASSINATION>OF<PRESIDENT KENNEDY>

WITH A VERY FEW LIMITED EXCEPTIONS. THE MOST RELEVANT EXCEPTION

FOR THE AGENCY IS WHERE THERE IS "

THAT THE THREAT TO THE CONDUCT OF US INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES AND

FOREIGN RELATIONS OUTWEIGHS THE PUBLIC INTEREST AND THAT

DISCLOSURE WOULD REVEAL AN INTELLIGENCE

METHOD CURRENTLY UTILIZED

AND NOT OFFICIALLY DISCLOSED. "

LAST WEEK, THE DDA AND THE ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF STATE

FOR ADMINISTRATION WERE CALLED TO TESTIFY ON THE CONTINUED

WITHHOLDING OF INFORMATION

SECRET

---

## Page 2

13-00000

SECRET

MEENO,

98-0430861

RESPONSE

-SENSIND:

FOLLOWING QUESTIONS MAY ASSIST IN THE FORMULATION OF YOUR

PAGE:

(A) .

DESCRIBE SOME PARTICULAR ACTIVITIES WHICH COULD BE

IMPERILED?

(D) ARE THERE NEW INITIATIVES

WITH THE HOST GOVERNMENT AND

SERVICE WHICH COULD BE IMPERILED (E.G., COUNTER-NARCOTICS WHERE

PREVIOUSLY NONE) ? DESCRIBE.

(E) IS CIA PRESENCE INHERENTLY SENSITIVE

BECAUSE OF HOSTILE POPULATION ELEMENTS OR POLITICAL ACTIVITIES?

(E) IS THERE POSSIBILITY OF HOSTILE USE (E.G., RUSSIAN ON

CUBAN) TO DISCREDIT US EMBASSY AS A "NEST OF SPIES OR SIMILAR?

(G) HAVE THERE BEEN PAST IMBROGLIOS OVER CIA PRESENCE OR

ACTIVITIES THAT THIS RELEASE COULD RESURRECT?

(H) HAVE OFFICIAL USG RELEASES SUCH AS FOIA EVER APPEARED IN

THE LOCAL MEDIA (E.G., JAPAN AND CAMPAIGN FINANCING OR PERU AND

ROTA RELEASED CONCERNING VLADIMIRO MONTESINOS TORRES) .

TO BY HOST GOVERNMENT EITHER ON THE RECORD OR OFF THE RECORD.

5. FILE: NONE. INDEX: NONE. CL BY :

7 DECL ON: _ DRV FROM:

CABLETYPE:

GECO STAFF 4.0.1.>

RELNO :

DORELS0100880721

DATA

CL REASON:

END OF

MESSAGE

SECRET

SECRET

2

---

