# 104-10186-10078

## Page 1

104-10186-10078

INFORMATION RERORTA

INFORMATION REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE. AGENCY

COUNTRY Cuba

SUNECT RAMON AND (Al1a8 "EfTAIn")

SECRÈT

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

REPORT NO.

DATE DISTR.

NO, PAGES

REFERENCES

CSCI316/00606-65

9 February 1965

1

DATE ON 1964

INFO.

PLACE & Washington,

D. C.

RETUAN TO CLA

Background Use Only

• Do Not Reproduce

DATE ACQ. January 1968

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVARUATED INPORMATION. SOURCE GRADINOS ARE GIPINITIVE. APPRAISAL OR CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE:

A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Service until April 1964.

Headquartors Commente

The following report is one of a series containing personalit.

Information provided by the source and includes supplemental

Information

Irom the records of this Agency.

It Is requested that the addressees take no action on any o1

the individuals pentioned in the personality reports without

first chocking with this Agency.

Band do Intelle "It Aneral Direntor de of treasonce

DG]) who in 1964 was stationed at the Cuban Embassy in Prague. 1

Headquartors Comment

1.

records of this Agency reveal no identifiable information

on Ramon

LNU.

5

4

SECRÉT

NO FOREIGN

DISSEM

dasta to 8 de sue shado

there po+7 91998) 09969

STATE

DIA

REP

ARMY

NAVY

I AIR

INSA

TFBT 2

CINCLANT

CINCSO #

I&NS

(Note: Plald distribution bodicated by " sy

SINTORMATION RERO RT INFORMATION RERORT

UFGA 19083(16Dec6-i

IT/SALLOR THE NA

CILLA

LX 1510; UFGA: 9?

MILLSAMOR LIKELADR.

2CLIRIA

(14 Jan 65)

HI/SAR

LAH/SAICI

5

WILHAVE

WY

NO PROJECT (AMMU

MID/LAX

CSC1-316/00605-

RELERING

TOTALS WHI/SA 8 (1), WE 1 (2), CIA, RID 1

61A190*#

Bis

Irg

---

