# 104-10103-10075

## Page 1

104-10103-10075

HAMA * 19325

dated 10 July 1962•

Station, KAPOK, dispatch with attachment.

Mexico City

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Cnly

Do Not Reproduce

---

## Page 2

DISPATCH

FLASSIFICATION

a !::5..1º

PRO

FOSEO

NFO.

Chief. Task Foreei W

Chies, wi lirer !on

FROW

ChIe1 01 50:.i0

140o

SUBGKAROK Operat

GYROSE PrOgreSS Repont on Detection

NGTION REQUIRED. REFERENCES

and Reenultment Actiyities:?f Statigk,Mexico

Hefereon lyd !:::

•12.

? =

Aotion Nequired: t jor lrforatlor.

PROCESSING

ACTION

MARRED -FOR IROF RUAG

NO IMOCHINE AIQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED

HCADQUARTIRI DESA

CAM IUDGE IAOERIAG

ABSTRACT

M:CEOFILM

ACCOM

PLISHEN

Attachel !r.

Marlal coo2.mon wIdi releraad ls d04'c: 1505:5° 59

;0.".

WILILIUD C. CURTIS

T: FE

A.".

"?is

".il?

IAF, Fl liido

— DO NOT DEEIEOX -

Attachment:

F7059959 19901

Dista1bu*.1on:

L- TINNIETE

3 - WHD WiAEt

3 - Piles

§ CÃOSS REFERENCE FO

CLAPSIFICATIDN

DATE TYFED

1.1.192

DATE DISPAICHEN

lociis:

DISPATCH STMBOL AND NUMBER

KArCK 104t

AMI LE5

HEADQUARTEAS FILE NUMECH

19-124-6

---

## Page 3

-Parrel

Heport on Derantion and Recrus it dotivlien

14t1!"

" 9715"1

recoe round January 1900, State Mexico has been than a see decea

of Cuban offlotals, mostly from the Cuban Embassy

The no? important of these was

Who was 20%

in efficial

¡and nos, fre.: 'ine Embassy, but was next to Castro himself, the most jorile: colce

among tis Cuin:: masses.

An unsuocessful "approach* was made to bulanio t: EPIA

Sepaces, a Citar student leader.

The station currently has one

"3 a veteran Station agent in close and Iriendly contact wit

official. In ridition, the Station 1s now followin' in tie mess

•'it of di

of e well-kuown offloial of the Confederacion de Irat. Jasor

Lacke wund

Besides

sUWOLF actions - Included:

A.

B.

04

ate

C

the abere-mentioned defections, - all successful

Jattache; Who never

Cuban i

prof

_Attäche;

detorinded

Cuban vic...ansu.. From

D.

Cunna foreign service olficial:

E.

Cuban

05

F.

G.

05

08

Cuhan

represtntative.

In addition, the Stailor ride an unsuccessful "approach" to Ralicio CUBELA

Segades, EItular head of the siturnjits in ruba at that time.

The "soprosin" conciste

of a"friendly" talk between i ¿ta'ion Cae Officer, a mutual filend o: CURPlA an]

CUBELA when the last mentioner sisü visting in Mexico.. While CUBELA die not pick

up the opportunity at that time, he appa-ently did not report the Incldent to til:

superiors and the groundwor's taj have been lald for similar action 1:The niture.

Three of the "recruitments" vere of importance. aLITAINS 3 planted ine

LIOOZE-I headed thel

the - MATA 6 Mother a to of me a tally de caciol

placed' in quotes to indicate that none i? these agents was ideal from the su aapoin

of canurely except LMADUS-3,

"who, although low level, proved out in the til sa.

he ne longer works

J LITALyS-3 developed an embassy

operation now handled by LITAINT-2 and INFAMIL-3) has been Instruments) in recruitine

SECRET /KAPOK

---

## Page 4

14-00000

see.

Oi, clirrent

Jai returner io imba

In 2961, and älthough arrangerents had been made for him to repori la

S.:,

thre

channel has never been activated at his end, in spite of the faci thni AnssevR-3

was sent in te juba'as a legal traveler to ascertain why not. Apparei. "

LIOOZE-1 prefers not to run any risk: Inside of Cuba Itself.

Current Situation

the Station has one?

Nation gas te the station a sater tara person to sees

major value 1s that he 15

with the operational

advantages basically. implied.

He has little access to confidental infurmation

but 1s able to

In the near future seems to be AuSteA

who works in the sane sectio: as A STOKE-I

did formerly. While assessments of AM

Fral. Jhave not yet indicated ne a proper

pitch can be made to him, he 1s for all practical purposes already nunlahing much

Information of value to LIMASK-1, a veteran KUBARK agent who 16 in Initiale con"act

Mith nim.

Current Station defection tirgets Include the Cuban Ambassador nins l', wha

has many times been reported to be susceptible, and Odon ALVAReZ de 1 Camid an

important official of the CIck in cuba,

N. B

what he wishes to defect.

The Station

the latter caso.

"DEFECTES"??) IN MADRID

IN 1965. HAS REtA

Involued in question wile

ActivIties in us.

Since Defector. FBI

HAS

BEz iNvestigating

allegatins.

Hopkins

7el. 1997

STUZT / KAPOK

---

