104-10079-10026)

(7), UNCLASSIFIED

ie

‘AL
oHLY

cn”
ROUTING AND RECORD: SHEET.

‘SUBJECT (Optionaly

| eceNsion

FROM, we
AA
RIAN : wi
WEA ps Sea Ce
TO. (Oficer dwignaion, wom number, ord Date
rods gxncers | COMMENTS Iombe on
RECEIVED | FORWARDED ier ed enero
1 i
2 i
CaO AS Sea j g MIGROFILMED j
2 Aue 2 2 18bS |
‘< ‘
*s pee. Mico, SER. |

toed a

3.

Rw Ms
7

te 0% 201) Bee, p&

Aad
me abstr

ihe tate, on abstract

we penell

bo

fe aa on

Rae

lk ty Yabj.

(4)

R0(-T 42 962

font 610 “omnsng’s

x

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL] {RTERMAL UNCLASSIFIED
qetuanto ciA
Background Use Only
‘Do Not!
/15S5 7
xX



14-00000 a

MEMORANDUM FOR: Mr. J. Lee Rankin
General Counsel
President's Commission on the
Assassination of President Ke:

MICROFILM

edly AU 2 0 1955 i

SUBSEGT: ° Information Conceralng Jack RUBY OSS Micne SER. |
aka Jack RUB:
associates as “Transuitteet te

id.

Heetem Ce mu

2, Reference is made to your memorandum of 19 May 1964,
requesting that this Ageacy furnish any information In ita files
relative to Jack RUBY, his activities and his associates.

2, This memorandum will confirm our earlier statement to
the Commission to the effect that an examination of Central Intelil-
gence Agency Illes has produced no information on Jack RUBY or
his activities, (Ths Central isielligence Agency has xo indication
shat RUBY and Lee Harv ALD ever knew cach other, were
assoelated, or might havé been connected in any manner.)

CAN- DTT QHEDS

3. The recorda of this Agency were reviewed ior information
about the relatives, friends and associates of RUBY namad in your

ary of his backgrounds Our records do not reflect aay informa-
ining to these persons,

Thomas H. Karamessines
Acting Deputy Dizector for Plana

Distribution:
Orig & 1 - Addressee
2-DDP
2 C/E REA

( . 4eF,

