104-10183-10280

wi

WH/EA 84-399

11 Bay 1984

REXORANDUM FOR 1 Chief, Cantval Cover Staft/MOC
ATYENTIGN === ‘Dan Shea
SeBsECe ¢ Bequest fer Cover for Aol

oad 1. Preliminary éiscugsioas on cover requirenenta
for AIG~1 have Anton WH/84/CI represcutatives
and Hy, Bhea and Er < the Contral Cover Starr.
‘The proposed monogfiqial eover, “Aessstation Fer Horth aad
Estia-dnorican Interest FO Box 6834, Hain Post Office,
Chicago, Tilinois, vill bs very satistsstery. The follove
ing cover informatica is keyed to the mexorazdss entitled
“Honefficial Cover for Individual".

4. General Iaformation 62 the Agent

(1) Ths ory; of the ageat to
be covered 9 AGEL ko Bee boa ao
Freviews pocadceyn es aliao. :

(2) @88iv@el has been engaged under
@ “Ecperencen of Gral Comaitcont”. a
yecoiven a salary ef $369.00 por menta,
Blue a fernished apartment as bis regia
: @sscs, which can alco be ucdd se 4 safehouso
er trafaing site. 7

(3) AB39G01 bes a POA im preseca, sabo
mittsd ea 1 Hay 1694, and wall be wood co an
egent in support of Wi/BA/CX opsraticas,
particularly the rocruitesnt er éefection
of Cabana intelligence gorepancl and diplomats.
Bo copsadents of AUNW~l are keevledgeable
2 bis CiA Gr 5.8, Goverment connecticas,



oBe

. (4) asm00~1 bas not been eseainod Y7
a tho Agency's Hedicol Division to deterpine
Bis fitness fof overseas duty. He will be
gabject to exanination ‘at the firct svaile

able opportunity.

- @) BeOe1 is scheduled for a2
fest on 9 Moy 1034. Ko will be
gives 6. peyopological eesoszment at tho
Firet available opportunity. i Seneca

He -_ (ay sgemin1 has wot been undor control
cae ‘of. C2A or tho 0.8. Goverment provicasly.
Cee eae Go gate, a cover avery bas not boon
peoouss 1 is under atyict euporvic1ea
DecRg/aa/Cl and ie not axyooed to Porscns
ether than Agency yorsennel.

7) AEaeGek is available te samme 8
eever etates at proesnt. “

(8) AeeuH1 is currently im Fashingte:,
D.C., ea a THT atané-ty basis and will poo
ebe menofficial cover provided in the Sas
States and abreod.

a (9) Fonds ore available gor hic
activity, and are chargeable to acocant '
meabor 4192984559520). grere is fo conven]
gieasi form of project for this eotivity.

i.

re nro

@ pamsel vas bern oa 6 PoRressy. 1637
fim Bevana, Csaba. Be ia o waite pale, sarried,
an4 ig in the 8. ., em incegiaite parole to

- eho egency. Bis eB
Bosre, Havens, Csaba asd io earrently lavizg ia

a eyes gatehouse, in tho washingtes, BC. area.
H : qa) sensei bas no copendenta veo ore $6
fe ecoemteyy hin ea 0 foreign acsiganant at $29
rrrom :

{ {3) AMBiSGe1 bas loves qi) years of
fesesl ocboolizg, {noladisg tee (8) yours toward

Th Ee IE ER TN
ene megan tome
? es _
poSneueLt PRT Te emp erry armament



ode

&@ Eucheler Degree, field unknova,

(4) Ain0G~1's business oxperionce
toca wething’ & short bot pay of time in
1846 #0 Bachine teols, salary
uaknovm,

(8) AOIGel's hobbies aad euteids
interests are sot known at this tine,
encept be enjoys beneball.

(6) AmmUGel te etabdle and dedicated
from initial impressions, Ko
Beecsement has yat bees made of hie
bereonality,

(7) Aiea.) ta gatizely sopondent
pon bis Agency salary, fe J

‘finascial resouress other than 1870 pose

leZ@ with his wafe in Cubs,

(8) asar00=1 aaa traveled to Rezioo,

» 6nd poastbiy . Be has
wet beea knoen to reside in any foreign
country othor thas im transit.

(9) ABEBO~1 agezak: Spaniah only.
oe cee ee 7

C. Svourity Considerations

(1)- ABDG-1 began hie Azoncy pervice
oa an eral coatract besis em 1 Bay 1964,
Bequest for s POA fer coatact and
Ressamesat vee eutnitted en 1 ay 1964, Bo
derogatory informatica bag been developed
by investigatioa.

(9) As010G-1 fo avare of 0.8.
Goverment isterest in his. Bo io not
evare of CIA interest at this tins.

(3) s8G01 bas not entered Agency
inetallaticss, nd

(4) AEHWG-1 19 im contact with so
ome ether than Cla staf? pergoasel, is

f


ote

family, relatives, friends are set eware
od bis Agency ceanectien, ner are they
aeayr the aren of sesiguseat,

AIWGG-1'a past connection

=i @)

with the Cuban Intell So

te thal and
the yal; al

(6) AlereG-) has wo family prebdlens
or any other piobises whieh might have
@ tearing om bis ability to live his
cover, other than the fact that he epeaks
caiy brantan waich cexid progeat prodleas

Aieh-epesking areas.

(7) = AMBHUG~1 bas net uesd any
veference to CIA for any purpess,

(889) Preesst plaas for AMIGQ-1'a
utilization do mot contemplate aga of
any other ponofficial or official eever.

10) AMHUGel ig under direst supervision
of officers and no energensy coatact
Plaa bas been necessary to date, Hovever,

@ plan will be sot up at e later date and
appropriate effiesa eotified, as preearibed
by Agency Regulation 20-953,

11) ats0-1 docs not ieipate ta
any Goverment er Agoncy-affiliated beneficial
(insaraece) plans,

(12) ARWUGe1 ig a Cuban refugee and
thus bas no U.8. Selcetive Service atetus,

DB.  Gporatiesal Informatica

AG] to

G) wyaa/cr bes
apport dovelepaent of ecunteriatelligence
epsrations, In Gackingten, D.C., be is used
88 a source of information. When appropriate
reeruitmeat targets are spotted abroad, AKNDG-1
Wil} be sent abroad to support recruitment



operations. If fa not antiotpated that
aay individaal, in the U.8. or sbresd,
will be made avare of AMEUG-1's ClA oF
U.8. Goverment affiliations until be
ig ender or using his monofficial cover
other, than CIA Gtaff personnel.

(2) AteIDG-1 is residing in Bssbingtoa,
B.C, The caly alteraste lecation for
his residence would be im a nearby eity
im the Vachingtes metropolitan area.

(3) pamd-1 nay be eousigercd for
travel to any coustry ia the free vorlé.
‘Tis travel will be determined by Wi/SA

and pot by AXNEG=1. ge fa abroad,
his travel will be ‘ecntreliod eo that 80
daflvenca oF 6: will arise

(4) At prosent, there ie ne necd far
ABB] to coutact any gootal, cultural,
eg political groups for eavey oF operations.
PAT 79698.

(6) aimvo2i'a current income
(9300.00 per eoath plus @ feraished
apartment) from CIA is reasomably oeapatible
with bis proposed cover.

(8) AMsGO-1 fo currestly doveting his
fall tine to eporatieaal tasks aeaiggsd by

(1) Be 8/0 coupanicationa obansel is
moddod ia the handling ef AmKGd-1.

(8) Ineauuch a6 AEG) wi)t reside in
the Hashiggtoa, B.G., ered gudefinitely and
ia unable to apes language ether thas



ae

7 for Berth sud Latin Anorican Ta ;
: for, Darth Srganination of wasen ARIIW2 wilt
: be p local representative, 19 oenaidsred E
By tan operating aizigiee w# ¥° vost a
satisfies at presest. a
Bruce B, Carever
DC/WH/BA
WH/BA/CI/L.Libby :pap(12 May 64)
Distribution:
‘Orig. & 1 - Addressee
1 = wH/SA/CE

1-
1 = 201 file

