# 104-10312-10018

## Page 1

104-10312-10018

NINEASSIHLU

USE ONLY 2

& DENTIAL

SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT: 'Öptional)

FROM Jane Romal. Cly Liaison

9026935

büllding)

DATE

FORW

EXTENSION

68523

OFFICERS

INITIALS

ED

NO

DATES

25. May 1267

COMMENTS I NUMS

Sawhomas Dran

oche commens

across columa

CT/RIA

MS. Rocca

1 3.

FORM

3-62

610 USE

EDITIONS

ARONSIS FO SECRET

ES CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

E33 UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 2

-0000U

25 May 1967

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT : Gordon NOVEL

1.

Tha.

1.

On 23 May Mr. Papich left with us a copy of attached

FBa teletype.

FBI Will confir this information by formal

memorandum.

MT. Papich requested Information on two points with

permission

to make our reply available to the Attorney General:

s) nature and extent of CIA interest in the

Double-chek Corporation®

b)

our comments and observations on the draft

"letter purportedly prepared by Gordon NOVEL.

3. After consultation with Mr. Jacob Esterlino, DC/WH,

MI.

reply

• was

SOD, and Mr. Lawrence Houston, OGC, the following

given Mr. Papich:

"Double-chek is a "shell" corporation used

In the past by CiA ca racmute pilots,

It was

Ibo used as a front for the payment of th

"Birmingham widows".

No Individual bearing

the name of Gordon NOVEL had any connection with

Double-chek not with CIA.

Mi. Lawrence Houston is in constant touch

with the boputy Assistant Attorney General

Nathaniel Cossack, on this matter, and will

tell him about present developments.

Mr. liouston comments that anyone could

have propared the letter but it really does

sound like NOVEL's cock-eyed approach rather

than Garrison. There is a fair chance that

aradio

VIN

---

## Page 3

13-00000

NOVEl might have written it. This will probably

make anothor headline for Garrison but we

don't feel it could do the Agency much damage".

On the question of the alleged gunshot fired at NOVEL,

Mr. Papich advised that the FBI is not investigating the matter.

It has not been confirmed as yet that anyone did shoot at NOVEL.

•• Romar

DDP/CI/LIaisor

CC:

OGC

MIg, Houston-w/attachment

DC/WH •

Mr.

SOD

Esterline- (has seen)

• Mr.

attachment previously furnished

CI/REA- Mr.

Rocca-w/attachnent

CI/LSN• FBI 10g-w/attachment

---

## Page 4

13-00000

AT APPROXIMATELY SIX ZERO FIVE PI THIS DATE A MESSENGER

DELIVEPES A LETTER ADDRESSED TO ROBERT E. RIGHIMYER, SPECIAL

AGENT IN CHARGE, NEW CREEANS OFFICE, FEDEPAL SUREAU OF INVESTIGATION,

LOUISIANA

SEVEN ZERO DUE LOVCLA AVENUE, NEW ORLEANS, bAO, TO THIS OFFICE.

LETTER WAS MARKED " BY HAND" AND VAS FROM LIM GARRISON, DISTRICT

ATTORNEY, PARISH OF ARLEANS•

THE LETTER WHICH IS SATED MAY TWENTYTWO SIXTYSEVEN STATES

• DEAR MR. RISHTMY??:

SEVERAL DAYS AGO WE OBTAINED WHAT APPEARS TO BE THE INITIAL DRAFT

• OF A LEIIEP WRITTEN SY GORDON NOVEL SHORTLY BEFORE HIS RECENT

DEPARTURE FREIA NEW ORLEANS. THIS DRAFT WAS WRITTEN ON YELLOW

PAPER IN PENCIL AND APPEARS TO 3E AN INITIAL FORMULATION OF A LETTER

WHICH HE SUSSEQUENTLY WROTE FOP. MAILING. I NOTICE IN HIS LETTER

A REFEFENCE TO INQUIRIES BY THE BUREAU WITH REGARD TO THE DOUBLE-

CHEK CORPORATION WISH HE MENTIONS. CONSEQUENTLY, I AM ENCLOSING

FOR YOU? INFORMATION A PHOTOSTAT OF THE HANDWRIITEN DRAFT AS WELL

AS OUR TYPEWRITTE: -PANSCRIPT.

END PAGE ONE

---

## Page 5

13-00000

..GE IWO

I AM SURE THAT YOU ARE MUCH MORE FAMILIAR WITH DOUBLE-CHEN THAN

WE ARE BUT WE HAVE NOTED THAI IN " THE INVISIBLE GOVERNMENT®, THE

RECENI SOON BY WISE AND ROSS ABOUT THE C.I.A•; DOUBLE-CHEK IS

PENTIONED ON PAGES SEVENTYNINE, EICHTY, EIGHIY SIX - EIGHTY NINE,

NINETY THREE - NINETY FIVE, ONE FIVE SIX AND TWO SIX THREE.

AS YOU WILL NOTE, THE PHOTOSTAT OF THE HANDWRITTEN DRAFT

IS NOT VERY DISTINGI. IF YOU DESIRE, I WILL BE HAPPY

TO MAKE THE DRIGINAL DRAFI AVAILABLE FOR INSPECIION BY A

REPRESENTATIVE OF YOUR OFFICE OR WE CAN PHOTOGRAPH COPIES AND

SEND THEM TO YOU.

I WILL BE HAPPY TO MAKE AVAILABLE TO THE BUREAU ANY

OTHER INFORMATION WHICH WE MAY HAVE WHICH MAY BE OF SERVICE

IN THIS CONNECTION.

SINCERELY,

JIM GARRISON

DISTRICI ATTORNEY "

THE LETTER ENCLOSED A PHOTOSTAT OF THE HANDWRITTEN DRAFT

REFERPED TO IN GARRISON'S LETTER, AS WELL AS THE DISTRICI ATTORNEY'S

TYPEWRITEEN TRANSCRIPT WHICH STATES AS FOLLOWS:

* TRANSCRIPT OF WRITTEN DRAFT OF LETTER FOUND IN APARTMENT

OF GORDON MOVEL AFTER HIS DEPARTURE FROM THE CITY

DEAR MiR. WEISS:

END PAGE TWO

---

## Page 6

13-00000

PAGE THREE

THIS LETTER

IS TO INFORM YOU THAT DISTRICI (SIC) JIM GARRISON

HAS SUBPOENAED NYSELF AND AN ASSOCIATE TO TESTIFY BEFORE HIS

GRAND JURY ON MATTERS WHICH MAY BE CLASSIFIED TOP SECRET.

ACTIONS OF INDIVIDUALS CONNECTED WITH DOUBLE-CHEX CORPORATION

IN MIAMI IN FIRST QUARTER OF NINETEEN SIXTYONE.

WE HAVE NO CURRENT CONTACT AVAILABLE TO INFORM OF THIS SITUATION

SO I TOOK THE LIBERTY OF WRITING YOU DIRECT AND

APPRISING YOU OF CURRENT SITUATION. EXPECTING YOU TO FORWARD

THIS THROUGH APPROPRIATE CHANNELS.

OUR CONNECTION AND ACTIVITY OF THAT PERIOD INVOLVES INDIVIDUALS

PRESENTLY .•• ABOUT TO BE INDICTED AS CONSPIRAIORS IN MR.

GARRISON'S INVESTIGATION.

WE HAVE TENPORARILY AVOIDED ONE SUBPOENA NOT TO REVEAL DOUBLE-

CHEK ACTIVITIES OR ASSOCIATE THEM WITH THIS MESS. WE WANT OUT

OF THIS THING BEFORE THURSDAY THREE/ /SIXTYSEVEN. OUR STTORNEYS

HAVE BEEN

TOLD TO EXPECT ANOTHER SUBPOENA TO APPEAR AND TESTIFY ON THIS

MATTER. THE FIFTYH AMENDMENT AND/OR IMMUNITY (AND) LEGAL TACTICS

WILL NOT SUFFICE.

MR. GARRISON IS IN POSSESSION OF UNSWORN PORTIONS OF THIS

TESTIMONY. HE IS UNAWARE OF DOUBLE-CHEK'S INVOLVENENT IN THIS

MATTER BUT HAS STRONG SUSPICIONS. I HAVE BEEN QUESTIONED

EXIENSIVELY BY LOCAL FBI RECENTLY AS TO WHETHER OR NOT I WAS

INVOLVED WITH DOUBLE-CHEX'S PARENT HOLDING CORPORATION DURING

END PAGE THREE

---

## Page 7

13-00000

FACe. FOUR

INAT TIME. MY REPLY ON FIVE QUERIES WAS NEGATIVE. BUREAU

UNAWARE OF DOUBLE-CHEX ASSOCIATION IN THIS,MAITER. OUÊ ATTORNEY'S

AND OTHERS ARE IN POSSESSIGN

OF COMPLETE SEALED FILES CONTAINING

ALL INFORNATION CONCEPNING MATTER. IN THE EVENT OF OUR

SUDDEN DEPARTURE, EITHER ACCIDENTAL OR OTHERWISE, THEY ARE

INSTRUCTED TO SIMULTANEOUSLY RELEASE SAME FOR PUBLIC SCRUTINY

IN DIFFERENI AREAS SIMULTANEOUSLY.

APPROPRIATE COUNTEPACTION RELATIVE TO GARRISON'S INQUISITION

CONCERNING US MAY BEST BE HANDLED THROUGH MILITARY CHANNELS

VIS (A) VIS D.I•A• MAN• GARRISON IS PRESENTLY COLONEL IN

LOUISIANA ARMY NATIONAL GUARD AND

HAS READY RESERVE STATUS. -

CONTACT MAY BE HAD THROUGH OUR ATTORNEYS OF CURPENT RECORD

PLOIKING ALVAREZ, SAPIR•

MR. GARRISON'S LETTER IS NOT BEING

ACKNOWLEDGED BY THIS OFFICE.

---

