# 104-10119-10116

## Page 1

1104-10119-10116 • ci

OFFICE TRAVEL ORDER, NO..

TRAVEL ORDER

TOY

PCS

INVITATIONAL

MANE

FE 313-60

SERVICE TRAVEL ORDER NO, N

1, Horird Hunt

(integree)

OFFICIAL STATIONE

OFFICE PHONE

GRADE

Linteridso, tregner

16-24

05-15

YOU ARE AUTHORIZED TO TRAVEL AND INCUR NECESSARY EXPENSES IN ACCORDANCE WITH REGULATIONS.

.. THIS. TRAVEL OR

ITINERARY, MODE OF TRAVEL AND PURPOSE

Mastersdoo, sugary to tinhinstors, Bat.

A1g, Bol Camen Cheer

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

!:!"

37 A.

BEGIN

TRAVEL DURATION

END

PER DIEM ALLOWANCE

DOMESTIC

MAXIMUM

FOREIGN

OTHER

(See Below)

AUTOMOBILE ALLOWANCE

CIN SPERM.

NOT TO EXCEED

COST BY COM-

MON CARRIER

CENTS PER MI.

AS MORE

ADVANTAGEOUS

• TO GOV'T.

ALLOWANCES AND SPECIAL PROVISIONS WITH REASONS

Sue Juryose Of 1U15 ISONEl Ones IS tO pay DoX 1l1 allomale expenna not perebro

Dy State becnno of reneutlen tren State.

eturn chipmat of meisht me athorion, not to enund that milet u

atharind to bo matura to the station. (Appottedy 1000 105.

DEPENDENT TRAVEL AUTHORIZED

NAME

DATE OF BIRTH RELATIONSHIP

PROCURE TRANSPORTATION BY

TRANSPORTATION REQUEST

* CASH OR OTHER

DISPOSITION OF EFFECTS

AUTHORIZATION

SHIPMENT

TETONAGE ORARY

SHIPMENT POA AUTHORIZEO

EXCESS BAGGAGE AUTHORIZED

ACCOMPANIED

UNACCOMPANIED

LBS AND MODE

LES AND MODE

ESTIMATED COST OF TRAVEL

€290-00

800-00

(02)

$1000.00

• CERTIFY FUNDS ARE AVAILABLE

OBLIGATION REFERENCE NO,

373

CHARGE COST CENTER NO.

ACCOMPANY TRAVELER

FOLLOW WITHIN 6 MONTHS

ADVANCE RETURN

ADVANCE OF FUNDS REQUESTED®

ACCOUNTING DUE DATE

DATE

0255-5370-5000

SIGNATURE:OF B & F OFFICER

YES

NO

SIGNATURE

COORDINATION

• TITLE & COMPONENT

DATE

TYPED NAME AND TITLE

COMPONENT

AUTHORIZING OFFICIAL

TAN S3

E9- Jane 1960

COMPONENT

DATER, NEED

a0 June 1960

(B0-d0)

FOR 540 OBSOLETE

#- 58

PREVIOUS

MFC 1-50

EDITIONS.

218R

---

