# 104-10186-10270

## Page 1

104-10186-10270

INFORMATION ERORILINFORMA DION RERORTOS

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This material catalha informalino afectins to Mastonal loiram of the L'attes alatos milhin the meanina of the fabionous

1s I'se de i09 and to1, the iransm if soresthe of whih ia sor manner lu an unauthored perma la ponteichground Use Oni

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

RETURN TO CIA

COUNTRY Cuba

REPORT NO.

Do Not Reproduce

CS CI-316/00698-64

SUBJECT Manuel PINEIRO Losada

DATE DISTR.

27 August 1964

NO. PAGES

2

REFERENCES

CSCI-3/780,985

16 April 1984

DATE OF 1964

INFO

PLACE & Washington, D. C.

DATE ACQ. August 1964

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINOS ARR DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE

SOURCE, A former Cuban IS officer who served witti the Cuban Intelligence

Service until April 1964.

Headquartors Comments:

The following report is one of a series containing personality

information provided by the source and includos supplemental

Information from the records of this Agency.

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any of

the indiylduals mentioned in the personality reports withous

first checking with this Agoncy.

has more than one telephone number, the only one source could

recall was 29-4257.

2.

PINEIRO is a close friend of Carlos Manuel LECHUGA Hevia, the

Cuban Ambassador tb

the United Nations,

und when LECHUGA

Is dd Habana he spends much time with PINEIRO.

3.

Source reported that the training for revolutionary activity

in Zanzibar was arranged directly by Pidel CASTRO and PINEIRO

(the DGI as an organization had nothing to do with the

arrangements for the training).

*.

5.

PINEIRO was born about 1929, is about five feet ten inches

tall, wieghs about 250 pounds, and has a heavy build.

has brown hair and eyes,

a bushy, rerdish beard, and a

flushed, freckled complexion.

Source said that sometime after March 1961, PINEIRO traveled

to Moscow. 1

3

4

3

• 2

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

STATE

REP

CINCLANT

¡Nore fietd dutribution indicated by "*".)

CINCSO # I&NS

INSA

TXXX

I OCR

FBT 2

INEORMATION REPOREM FORMATIONARERORI

_IH/SA FOBLYELS/R

LIAL SAÍNOR! L HE/MADR

ML-SAiR

MUSAiCL

TOTALE

.1!

CLiLA

.IE

1LX-1641

NO PROJECT (AMNUO

SCI 316/00698084

BID'AN

COORDINATINO}

#H/SA 7 (1), WE 1. (2), C7J, RID 1

LIAISON#

CI/R&A

201-238687

rosa so

ORSOLATE PRETOCS EDITIONS

. 1301

---

## Page 2

14-00009

SECRE

NO FOREIGN

DISSEM

Heidguarters Comments

1 .

There has been no pertinent additional information concerning

Manuel PINEIRO Lusade since the dissemination of the above

references report except for the travel information below:

A flight manifest revealed that PINEIRO. his wife,

Lorna BURDSALL de Pineiro, and his son, Manuel Kshlil

*INEIRO Burdsall, transited Shennon Airport erout

¡rom Prague to Habana on CSA Flight OK 523 on 1l May 1964

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

---

