etait ane RR Gunnd

HRG - INTERNAL USE ONLY

12 February 1996
JFK Working Notes

Subject: Topics/Issues discussed at Meeting with J. Gunn and
ARRB Staff, 1 February 1996 re

Next Meeting: 29 Feb.-1 Mar

The Board plans to increase the number of documents
being reviewed. (their goal is several hundred per session) .=
They will be addressing the remaining documents from Oswald
boxes 1-3 and 7-9 plus new boxes 4-6. Documents from Boxes
10-12 should be available if needed. if

Board Actions ound
(a 8

Re liaison, Gunn said that the approach.of the Board
members was to uphold a postponement if the information:

a. identities a foreign security/intelligence service
b. identities a specific person (foreign official)

They are less inclined to protect information when it deals
with liaison in general.

apaerae

1. Access to inventory of CIA History Program
2. Indices/inventories to JFK records

3. 1967 IG Report

4. Meeting with Whitten.

New Requests/Issues :
a Do we have (Barbara Maneli's7testimony to the HSCA in

our collection or in HSCA referrals? Action: Frank

2 Can we pull together documents related to Bishop and

Oswald (or identify where located in collection)? [This

request relates to their request that we certify that all

files have been searched for Bishop/Oswald connections.]
Action: Kathey, Frank

3. Would Nosenko be willing to meet with the Board?
Action: none - will revisit when we reach the Nosenko
material in the collection.

Barry Harrelson
CC: C/HRG

Ellie
HRG Reviewers

HRG INTERNAL USE ONLY
