# 104-10048-10150

## Page 1

104-10048-10150

DISPATCH

Chief, Special Affairs Staff

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

PRO-

POSED

XXX

•PROCESSING

AMBERTH

MARKED FOR INDEXING

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED

HEADQUARTERS DESK

CAN JUDGE INDEXING

ABSTRACT

MICROFILM

PLISHED

INFO

FROM

Chief of Station, UMWAVE

SUBJECT

TYPIC/Operational

AMCLATTER/1, Monthly Report for June 1963

ACTION REQUIRED • REFERENCES

ACTION: FXI

STURGIS DOI

REFERENCE: UFGA-9745, 23 June 1963

I. Operational

There was no substantive change in Subject's modus

operandi or in his relations with JMWAVE.

Development of Jesus I

as a possible

infil candidate was suspended when PM Branch indicated that he

lacked the prerequisite technical knowledge and experience.

to full termination, Subject will arrange for

to a. PM case officer for an interview which will determine whether

night manifest certain qualities which were not evident

in his dossier but which might be accapted as equivalent to the

usual recruitment prerequisites.

If the results of this inter

view are negative, contact with I

will be dropped.

who had indicated in May that

he would

be a penetration of the residual CRC, had second thoughts

in June, and told Subject that he would prefer to retain discre-

the amount and type of information he would pass.

there had been no binding comnitments-made to

by Subject,

it was decided to revert to the previous relationship in which

the forner occasionally supplied information on a voluntary basis.

Subject assumes that his recruitment pitch was accepted for lack

of any real reason on the part of [

]to refuse, but that..

(CONTINUED)

Distribution:

3

C/SAS

CROSS REFERENCE TO

6R08P 7

Excited form afarelir

CLASSIFICATION

_SECRET

DATE TYPED

DATE DISPATCHED

JUL 26 1968

19 July 63

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

UFGA-10234

HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBER

8202-257689

D002261

---

## Page 2

13-00000

CLASSIFICATION

DI.. ATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

'CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

SECRET

.VEGA-10234

after mulling the whole thing overl

decided that he did

not want to be bound by such an agreement, and was honest enough

to cancel it in a straightforward manner.

II. Production

4.

during June:

Three disseminable reports were credited to Subject

a.:

UFG-3006 (cable) from Frank Fiorini, "Planned

Raid on Cuba by DIAZ Lanz Brothers"

UFG-3089 (cable) from Jose ARIOLA, "Conmando

Invasion of Cuba a Hoax".

UFG-3108 (cable) from Frank Fiorini, "Current

Activities of Frank Fiorini".

5. In addition to the above, Subject conducted lengthy

debriefings of several UR executives who

cane out of asylum in

These were very valuable as operational data for the handl

ing of JMWAVE relations with that organization.

Subject also has

been of considerable assistance in general legwork among the

various Cuban exile individuals and groups who are not otherwise

easily accessible to JWAVE.

III. Financial

6. Subject was paid $420.07 as salary for the month of

June ($500 minus withholding for income tax).

He was reinbursed

$86.87 for operational expenditures made during the period 25 May -

24 June 1963€

IV. Future Plana

Subject has

shown

a flair for intensive debriefing of

operational prospects in

addition to his

demonstrated ability in

extensive sampling of opinion and intention in the Cuban exile

conmunity.

It is planned to assign him a number of operational

leads of undetermined potential.

His prelininary findings can

save valuable case officer time in separating the wheat from the

chaff.

END OF DISPATCH

all mann?.

D002261

FORM

8.60

53a

USE PREVIOUS EDITION,

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

CONTINUED

PAGE NO.

-2-

---

