# 104-10050-10005

## Page 1

1104-10050-0005]

REPRODUCTION

PRIORED

(SECHET.

10 Feb 77

Source:

lotes made by A. Goodpasture

for John Leader, IG Staff

Subject:

Background on Mexico Station Support Assets

(Coverage of Soviet and Cuban Embassies)

1. Unilateral coverage. From the time the Mexico Station was opened in

April 1947 (by Bill Doyle) until arrival of Win Scott as COS in 1956, Charles

Anderson III (still in LA/HQ) had developed a support apparatus

exploit leads from the Soviet Embassy. This umbrella type project (LIFEAT)

consisted of multi line phone taps, three photo sites, a mobile surveillance

team and a mail intercept operation.

a. Fhone taps were placed by an employee of the telephone company

who was handled by David WILSTED (pseudo). The number of lines •

tapped was linted by availability of a listening post nearby

(since the taps were not made in the maincentra

and English/

Spanish (Soviet, Polish, Czech, etc) transcribers.

Generally

these agents (nostly*

pican or Mexican Arerican) were related

(which

th

that time felt was good security in that

if they tiked about shop, they would talk to each other.)

b. Three

photo sites were handled by Arderson with the help

of Harry Kahoney (retired, living in Chicago) and IDY ISD

people checking the best type of camera, film, and concealment

devices. These had sub-cripts under LIFEAT (LINITED, LILYRIC,

and LICALIA). LIMITED was a fixed site bang opposite across

the street fron the front gate of the Soviet Enbassy which had

both a vehicle and foot entrance. The Soviet gate was on the

Northl'est corner.of their compound and LIMITED was diagonally

across a double barrelled

street on

the Southaas

(SECRET

LÜ0Ü164

REPRODUCTION

CPROHIBATED

SECRET

A-3

13

---

## Page 2

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

"SECRET

that block. LIITED was the first base ard it cheraied

strictly on an

o: arinental basis in the early stages. I think the lexi Station bought

one storey

this property. (a/Spanish Colorial stone house) through LINOUSIE (check to

be sure). Later this house began to fall apart.

This base was closed when

the Station got word that the photo of "uniden man" was being releasea to the

public by the Warren Connission. The photo operators vere noved to another apt

nearby. The property was sold (under an operational agreement with LIMOUSINE

for a long term lease on the top floor of a new apartment blding to be built

on this site): LILYRIC was planned as an alternate photo base to LINITED.

It was in an upper storey (3rd floor -check) on the sare side of the street

as LEITED but in the middle of the block South. It had a slanted view of

the front gate of the Soviet Enbassy. The agents in LIATED and LILYRIC (both

lexican failies) as far as we knew, were not acquainted with each other.

LILYRIC was a rented apartment. LICALIA, the third photo site, was located

in one of a row of four houses on the South steer.

or the Soviet Embassy compound

which the lexico Station purchased pai

about: 1953 (check date), also using

LOUSINE as the purchager d

check) This site overlooked the back garden of

the Soviet Embassy complouria.

The purpose of this operation was to get good

identification photographs of the Soviet

personnel (who at that time vere largely

unidentified in lexico Station records). Tre three photo sites were handled by

Ramon Alvarez (Mexican citizen of U.S. mother who taught elecentary level at

the American School). Ramon collected the film

and LILYRIC three times a week. His sister's husband, Carlos (lexican doctor)

developed and printed the film into 8x20 contact print strips. The master plan

Holt - resigned) could not handle the volume and as the unprocessed

filn began

to accumulate, the inside CO (l'ahoney) becane disgusted and took the filn out

for Ramon's brother-in-law to process (probatly early 1959). Thus Ramon became

the handler for all three photo bases.

A sensitive staff D monitoring operation

SECRET

0000165

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

14

---

## Page 3

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

-3 =

SECRET,

was run out of another one of these houses (crypt for the four houses was

LIUST,], ete). This was ha:dled by Glen WIDDall (outside ISD officer) ana

l'ahoney using HQ TDY teams for monitoring. This opsration vas also separate

from LICALLA. The two houses in between were rented to unsuspecting

tenants.

c. Mobile surveillance

was developed by Anderson and later placed

under lahoney and Joseph Sancho. This team consisted of a half

dozen or so agents who used three to for late model cars and a

panel truck (which could be used on stake_outs for photo covera e).

The plan was to activate this group by radio (from LIMITED BASE)

Soviet

when soneone of interest left the Embassy gate ard stay with then

until they made their meetings.. These

agents knew about the LEITED

BASE because they had LITED photos for identification

purposes.

This worked fairly well until about the middle of 1958 (check date)

when one of the surveillance agents

got too close to his target ard

was arrested by the Mexican transit police

and turned over to the

Mexican Secret Serrice.

Station could arrange through

a cleared attorney

bai, bit out (Juad Austin of the Goodrich,

Little and Riquette firm), the agent. had identified

Sancho (who was

evacuated across the border at Nogales by Bob Shaw)

and the inside.

phone number of Mahoney (who was subsequently replaced by Louis

Fuckett. As a result of this flap, the LIZAT project was broken

up into several others. The agents were not changed but were given

new crypts. /Estancona ard Peggy Maggard replaced Andersón in handling

the unilateral phone taps. Puckett replaced Mahoney and handled the

surveillance team (LIENTRAF) and the photo bases through Renon.

d. LIBIGHT was the crypt used for a unilateral (originally) mail

intercept handled by Charlie Anderson III, The agent (Mexican) had

a semi official status and arranged to obtain selected letters from

TSECRET

0000166

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

15

---

## Page 4

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

a sub-agent in ühe postal system (I think at the airport).

AlConso Spera,

were loter/Fuckett, Rovert Feldmann, and Alan White.

His case

officers

2. LIaison coverage was unreliable and insecure as characterized by the nature

of the Mexican services at that tire. The Mexican DES (Direction of Federal

Security) with which ve dealt was a hip pocket group run out of the ilinistry

Of Gov rnment.

This linistry spent a major part of its tire on control of

foreigners and political investigations. Their agents vere vicious, venal,

corrupt extortionists. Robert iielberg established contact with one of them g

Levine De Leon (later LIFIRE group) in about 1950 or 51. He gave them some

training (a group of about five surreillance types) in travel control working

the airport as vell as file searches of names from DES Igtrs where the files

were poorly erganized and often inaccurate, How and then, hovever, sore useful

information las developed but it could not be defended upon.

Melberg was

replaced by Phil Roettinger, (resignadend remained in lexico), ilahoney, Thomas

Hazlitt, and Rooert Feldman Ene

During 1958, INe'Scott met socially some of the chronies of the

Mexican President elect, Adolfo Lopez lateos. During this period, the U.S.

Ambassador Robert C. Hill (reflecting the policy of then Sec State J.F. Dulles)

was energetic in organizing groups to "fight cormunisn". One of these seeds

grew into a proposal Miguel Aleman (ir. son of fomer lexi President), acting

for Lopez lateos, made to Win Scott for a joint telephone tap

operation. This

project (LIENVOY) went through about four distressing years of a shairedown.

The Mexican in control (LIELEGANT) was inexperienced, old, ard greedy. His

son (LIENVOY-2) was a masterpiece of deceit and corruption. LIELEGANT also

manipulated control over the principal agent of LIBIGHT mail intercept. The

first case officer was Alfonso Spera inside with Turner Smith (retired) outside

and John

(ISD training officer for surveillance and head of the listening

post where thirty telephone lines would connect as vell as a transcription roon

0000167

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

16

---

## Page 5

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

SECRET

stalfed ij to isan army officers.) Initially the station tried to met every

jenand made

by the lexicans. Both Smith and John had language difficulties and

personal problems associated with being outside the

station so that the Mexicans

were virtually uncontrolla:le, spend: € money

as they pleased, squirrelling away

equipment at enormous costs, and neglecting their part of the bargain in the

production of transcripts or placing taps which

we wanted.

Spera was replaced

by Jack Brady wino found himself in the same pincer novement of having Scott

approve a request by LIELEGANT that Brady had turned down by

the son, LIEtOX-2.

Finally when the cost became exhorbitant and there was little

to

show for it,

the project was revamped. Smith and John returned

to

the U.S. and were replaced

by a TSD officer, Charles Flick, who was put inside

the listening post to naintain

Brady was reassigned to other duties rendirg a transfer.

the equipment./ Scott took over the project as

case

officen meeting with LIELEGANT.

He designated Ann Goodpasture to meet dailing with Fid

§or routine supervision

of the listening post, picking up transgrints and

tapes.

Goodpasture had no

dealingewith the lexicans exception seatt was 111.

or out of town.

Generally,

all decisions were made byr

gita Inis was about late 1961.:

3. Yy menory is a little vague about the origins of the Cuban Embassy but I

think the staff first developed fron a pro-Castro

group celebrating on New

Years

eve 1959. As I recall, it was a rakeshift arrangerent of volunteers

through most of 1960 and cl with Tom Hazlitt producing voluminous reporis

on

their activities and recruiting agents right and left anong Cuban nationals in

Mexico City.

4 Personnel assignments. Of interest to us now is who was in lexico during

the period prior to Oswald's visit and the subsequent investigation by the

Warren Connission. To determine wro was there and what they were doing I

have gro:ped persons torether chronologically with areas of their assignment

as the

covering from 1950 to 1969 so that sorether nanes pop up, one can tell what

period they were in Mexico and

their assignments

nat the time.

SECRET,

0000168

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

17

---

## Page 6

13-00000

- REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

8/56-6/59

COS

DOOS

- 1

„SECRETI

Winston ¼. Scott (deceased)

7/56 - 7/58 Alfonso Rodriguez (retired)

10/58 - 12/62|

(retired)

6/63 - 9/65

Alan White (retired)-

10/65 - 1969 Stanley Watson (retired in Nexico)

COVERT ACTION

12/54 - 77,25

ioward hunt (retired

Williard Hill (resigned

12/55 - 9/61 Stannard Short. (retired)

Chief

9/61 - 3/64 Davia

Phillips C/(retired) -

8/62-9/64

Asst

nots

2/64 - 6/65

Janes Flannery C/(retired)

9/64 - 11/66

Harold Dalghren Asst

10/65 - 1967

Stanley Watson C/(retired)

66

Joseph SmithC(retired in Vexico)

CUBA OPERATIONS

56 - 4/62 Thomas Hazlitt Chief

2/60 - 4/62 Jack Stewart (retired Costa Rica

4/63 - 4/65 Bob Shaw Chief -

9/63 - 7/65

Ray Swider

10/63 - 5/65 Lorna Mackay

(ne.

STUM PROMISIED

8/63 - 6/65 David Philli

9/65 - 19/68 Joseph Piccol

Fired,-

10/65 - 12/67 Peygy Maggard

SOVIET TARGET

6/57 - 10/59 Louise Lyon (turd?

9/59- 8/65

Herbert Yanell Chief-

59 - 8/65 Barbara Hanell

64 - 7/66 Hillian Brigi

4/05 - 11/67 Cynthia Hausmann

6/05 - 7/67.

Alice Pittinger

7/65 - 4/69 Paul Dillon Chief

SOVIET TRANSCRIBEPS

6/56 - 8/58

Morris Gordon (resigned)

6/58 - 6/53

George Misko

6/63 - 70

Boris Tarasolf (retired in Mexico) -

6/62 - 1/67 Prentice liarheine (ps)

(retired ?)

Outside CO

SECRET,

0000169

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

---

## Page 7

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

• 7m

SUPPORT ASSETS

Unilateral phono taps

1949 - 1961

Charles Anderson III Chief

3/55 - 4/60

Peggy Haggard Asst

4/56 - 1/62 Frank Estancona Chief

2/60 - 10/64 Thomas Keenan to

9/64 - 12/67 Michael Farmer

49-71 ? Outside CO

David WILSTED (ps)

retired in Mexico

Unilateral photo Cubans

6/59 - 4/64

Robert Zambernardi (resigned Mexico)

7/59-6/62

Richard Spathar TSD (retired)

Unilateral photo Soviets

3/54 - 4159 Harry T. Mahoney

(retired Chicago)

5/57 - 8/64 A. Goodpasture (alternate C0 -

and internal routing)

6/58 - 6/63 Louis D. Puckett (retired)

6/63 - 10/64 Thores Keenan = Robert

65 - 66 Willian Bright

56 - 68

Outside Agent

Ramon Alvarez (rasigned in Mexico)

Enema. ol repenting.

Trial.

Liaison phone taps

1959 - 1969 Winston Scott (deceased)

1959 - 1960

Alfonso Spera

(retired)

1959

- 1960

Turner Smith (outside, now retired)

1959 - 1960

John

(Training rept resigned)

1960- 1961

John Brady (retired)

1902 - 1968 A. Goodpasture -

1961 - 1971 Charles Flick (outside TSD Staff Agent - retired) -

Liaison - surveillance

Prior 1954 Robert Melberg (retired)

3/54 - 4/58 Harry lishoney (retired)

4/59 - 1961

Thonas Hazlitt

12/62 - 9/67 Robert Feldmann

TSD Outside unit

4/58 - 12/03

Glen Widden (rotired)

6/59-4/54

Joseph 1. Resigno (ps) Unit blown and closed down

0000170

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

17

---

## Page 8

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

1 -

SECRET

About nid 1962 (check date) Litoy outside lexi rept asted

for

the telephone nunvers of the Soviet, Cuban, and Satellite Enbassies.

With this forewarning, LIFEAT (unilateral coverage) was disconnected. However,

as I recall, the Mexicans connected 5 Cuban lines, 5 Soviet lines, 3 Czech,

2 Polish, and 1 Yugoslav line. The basehouse listening post had a live

monitor woo made short summaries of interesting conversations for a daily

resume which was received each day arourd 8 a.n. (passed by Flick to Coodcasture

to get to Scott before 9.a.i.) Later (when the reel was completely recorded)

full transcripts were typed and passed to the station in the same way, however,

there was usually a time lag of a day or so. Those transcripts which had

Russian or another language besides Spanish or English went out of the listening

post the day after the transcript (of other conversations on the reel)was

typed. These reeld were taken to another loestinear they were translsted

Ba 15pod, in the cale of the Real one, Desia TaraoR usay ea

sout a week behind the date gersion becue of the value of

Russian conversations amon

he Lembers of the Soviet Eubassy. During this

period (fall of 1963) the reels were probably being brought into the station

and carried to Boris by one of the people from the Soviet Section or they may

have been carried to him by Flick but I think I brought the reel in and

gave

it to Herbert Manell to take to Boris. Herbert Manell and his wife Barbara

handled all of the processi:g of Soviet transcripts. My job involved screening

the photographs as soon as we learned that the man calling hinself Oswald was

probably an Anerican. However, here again there was a backlag because the

photos were picked up three times a week but the ones ricked up were usually

for dates a few days previously because the doctor processed the film on a

night time basis. Photographs were made usually until one roll vas used but

later we got it changed to one day coverage on each roll - in other words the

"tin

operators cleared the camera each day whether there was angrikaxes a full

roll of film esposed. Instructions were to cover office hours, photograph each

0000171

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

20

---

## Page 9

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

-

'SECRET

new Soviet and farily, all foreigners and foreign licence plates. Funan

error did occur but generally the agents were conscientious.

The Cuban

embassy coverage had more sophisticated equipent (a pulse caera) but it

frequently developed nechanical difficulties. Bob Zambarnerdi and Spathar

(I think) handled this film - pick up and delivery. Lorne l'ackay screeted

the film inside the station.

I am certain that the Oswald call came to our attention from the

Soviet line. It was picked us and taken to Boris for a translation because

the caller was trying to speak Russian. Any delay was caused by waiting to

compare the photographs with the typed transcript. There were no copies of

transcriots every made in languages other than Spanish

English because Win

Scott could read only those two languages ard he

screened the

transcripts for operatioral leads

RES

0000172

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

21

---

## Page 10

13-00000

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

- 10 .

SECRET.

3

PRODUCTIO!

MANOMED

Thats Bases

3.

LICALLA

I- LIMITED

2. LILYRIC

(4) Sor Ero gate

SECRET

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

0000173

---

