# 104-10419-10305

## Page 1

10410419-10305]

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

Au SECRET

TO

FROM :

ACTION:

INFO:

: DIRECTOR

MEXICO CITY

C/WH 4

DCI, D/DCI, DDP, C/CI,

c/CI/SI, VR

RECORDS OUT ROUENG

2"

737757

autho

3

- DE SENSITIZE

Signed:

R.O. #1

- G/RKAC4

Note:

If destruction,

cite

reasons

come

1I appropr

SECRET 2819017

DIR INFO MRID CITE MEXI 7964

WRYBAT GPFLOOR

REF MRID 0385 1W O0Z4()*

Lo OFFICE OF LEGAL ATTACHE, BY CONTINUING INTERROGATION OF

FLARIO ROJAS VILLANUEVA OF GUADALAJARA, HAS DETERMINTED THAT

A. HE IS REALLY ELADIO VILLANUEVA OF REFERENCE AND IS THE

•• .

UNCLE OF DANiEL SOLIS WIFE.

B.. ELADIO VILLANUEVA WAS IN COZUMEL FROM APRIL 1963 UNTIL

JULY 1963 AND STAYED WITH DANIEL SOLIS. HE SHOWED LETTERS HE MAD

WRITTEN TO HIS WIFE FROM THERE FOR THIS PERIOD.

.C. DANIEL SOLIS KNOWS ADDRESS AND IRUE NAME OF ELADIO VILLANUEVA;

LETTERS FROM SOLIS-TO VILLANUEVA TO PROVE THIS POINT.

2.. VILLANUEVA HAS WRITTEN TO SOLIS TO SEND HIS ADDRESS 300K TO

VILLANUEVA, U.S. CONSULATE IN GUADALAJARA; USED EXCUSE THAT

WISHED VISA TO U.S. HE INSISTS SOLIS HAS NOTEBOOK AND STILL

CLINGS TO STORY HE SAW LEE 'HARVEY OSWALD AS HE WROTE TO MR. ROBERT

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER

THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

COPY

downgrouting

Copy No.

3-200-5-41

Document Number

1497-202

2C1-289248

for FOiA Raview on MAY 1976

---

## Page 2

13-00000

Number

For sterile copy of this document

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

IN 27534 PAGE 2

KENEDY.

3. FOR HQS: VILLANJEVA HAS AGREED TAKE LCFLUTTER TEST AND LEGAL

ATTACHE'S WASHINGION HEADQUARTERS ASKED HIM TO ASK COS IF LOFLUTTER

OPERATOR COULD COME MEXICO AS WAS DONE IN CASE OF ALVARADO

(NICARAGUAN) •

COS AGREED FORWARD REQUEST TO HQS.

IF AGREED LEGAL ATTACHE WOULD PERFER MEXICO CITY OP GUADALAJARA

AS LOCATION WITH MR.

PAS INTERPRETER IF ONE NEEDED,

TIME WITHIN NEXT TEN DAYS.

6o. PLEASE CABLE REPLY.

SECRET

C S COMMENT: *Forwarded information on Daniel Solis, well-

known municipal policeman at Cozumel of good: reputation over..

the past eleven years.

---

## Page 3

13-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

DONTING

TO

FROM

ACTION:

INFO

: DIRECTOR

2919017

DIR INFO

REF

(IN C0266)*

1. OFFICE OF LEGAL ATTACHE, SY CONTINUING INTERROGATION OF

LARIO ROJAS VILLANUEVA OF GUADALAJARA, HAS DETERHINTED THAT

A.: HE IS REALLY ELADIO VILLANUEVA OF REFERENCE AND IS THE

3Al:r:

UNCLE OF DANIEL SOLIS WIFE.

ELADIO VILLANUEVA WAS IN COME FROM APRIL I963 UNTIL

JULY 1963 AND STAYED, WITH DANIEL SOLIS.

HE SHOwED LETTERS HE HAD.

WRITTEN TO HIS WIFE FROM THERE FOR THIS, PERIOD.

po.-

CO DANIEL SOLIS KNOWS ADDRESS AND TRUS NAME OF ELADIO VILLANUEVA;

LETTERS FROM SOLIS TO VILLANUEVA TO PROVE THIS POINT.

18:a51

2.".

VILLANUEVA HAS WRITTEN TO SOLIS TO SEND HIS ADDRESS BOOK TO

VILLANUEVA, U.S. CONSULATE IN GUADALAJARA; USED EXCUSE THAT

WISHED VISA TO U.S..

HE INSISTS SOLIS HAS NOTEBOOK AND STILL

CLINGS TO STORY HE SAW LEE 'HARVEY OSWALD

• AS HE WROTE TO MR. ROSERT

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER ES COPSUNG OFFICE IS PROMISITEO

COPY

Document Number

1697-202!

for FOlA Review on. MAY 1978

Copy No.

---

## Page 4

13-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

IN 275334 PAGE 2

KENNEDY.

3.

5.

6.. PLEASE CABLE REPLY-

COMMENT:

#Forwarded information on Dániel Solis, well-

known muaicipal policeman at Cozumel of good reputation over.

the past eleven years.

---

