‘104-10322-10089

Fe} yreassigien [op INTER AL () CONFEDENTIAL SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

|

SUBJECT: (Optional)

FROM: EXTENSION | NO,

S.D. Breckinridge = © OLC 79-0113/d

Principal Coordinator, HSCA yt FEEL EEEEEEETEEFEEEET SSE ETSY Nau LEEUELEnTceeEleEETEEEELEES

| 16 February 1979
aon bee inh atbaEdasideuntoeCanaeatl baila OFFICER'S: COMMENTS. (Number each comment to show from whom
at + Received | FORWARDED. INITIALS. te whom, Draw @ line across column after each comment.)
* (Dolores Tuohy’ SA/DDCI
FAL
2.
3.
4a.
3.
rm |
7. i ae 0 :
8. sities fa
?. ; 7]
10. ; “
We
12.
Het | niet arte REG) 4
D
i
| SSSESaEae _
| |
| }

10 eonawe” CJ secrer = C] conripentiag EY UNCLASSIFIED


13-00000

} MEMORANDUM FOR: SAa/DDCT

Executive Racisry |
WG- Fi
The attached is a lengthy epistls to HSCA on a
draft we formerly were told was to ba held.as a
classified anne’; Now we are told they want to
publish? -

Tf the HSCa staffihas persuaied itself that its
criticisms:are to strong that they must seek publi=
cation, the attached strongly worded . letter is meant
to point out its ridkeulously extensive errors, which
destroy the criticisms the treatment has to offextt
Beyond that, it details security considerations

It 4s.tactical, ysranal from me to Blakey, but
. making it clear we-are prepared to go past the staff
to the Comittee members, in.order.to make our points’
I hope you.do not feel it too strongly worded,’
but I sense that something strong is necessary to get
Blakey's attentiont? ene

Se: De’ Breckinridge

Date 16 February 1979

_ Fe



13-00000

THE DIRECTOR OF CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE

WASHINGTON, D. C. 20505
OLC 79-0113/d
+15 Febriiarv.1979. -
Office of Legislative Counsel :

Mr. G. Robert Blakey

Chief Counsel and Director

Select Committee. on Assassinations
House of Representatives
Washington, D.C. 20515

Dear Mr. Blakey: i

It had been indicated earlier, in discussions with members of
your staff, that the section discussing Luisa Calderon and other
topics was not intended for unclassified publication. Mr. Gabrielson
understands from your recent comments that it now is your desire that
it be published in unclassified form. (U)

if Mr. Gabrielson's understanding is correct, it comes as’ something
of a surprise, as you undoubtedly realize that the draft treats in
explicit detail a number of sensitive intelligence activities: and
arrangements that we are obliged to protect. It is doubtful that
the subjects treated, without reference to the quality of that
treatment, could properly be discussed at all in published materials.
As. written, analysis and views are so closely interwoven with sensitive
materials that it does not lend itself to sanitization. After you
have reviewed these comments, it might be useful for us to consider
them together. We have classified it Secret in its present form and
request that you handle it accordingly. (U)

There are two areas of comment on the draft. The first, as
noted above, has to do with the detailed treatment of highly sensitive
subject matter. The second has to do with the extensively incorrect
treatment of the substance. An advance summary of the lattér might
be useful, as the separate comments may. be fragmented. The following
comments are therefore offered at this point: (U)

(1) A telephone conversation by Calderon is assigned
an inference--quite tenuous and therefore debatable--based on
an early mistranslation of what she said. That inference
was then used as the basis for critical treatment of the
Agency's not reporting it to the Warren Commission. When. the
correct translation was brought to the attention of your
investigator--quite frankly, seriously further weakening the
basis for the original inference--your investigator held to

io
~ Feb..1985-————


13-00000

his original thesis, continuing to use the incorrect
translation, blandly preserving the original rationale, although
discussing the correction in a way that seems to deliberately
confuse it. That the author was wed to the treatment he had
already contrived seems to be the kindest explanation. (S)

Having asserted significance for Calderon, based on the
mistranslation (the assertion continuing after the translation
showed it to be in error), the author then seizes on a suspicion
of-a DGI defector. that Calderon might have been a CIA~-or
American--agent. Without reference to what the defector
knew (which was nothing), the fact is that CIA did know.

Calderon was.not a CIA agent. That is quite clear. And given

_the Inter:-Agency. Source Register, it was ‘further clear that shé vias }
not registered to any other American intelligencé organization. ~~”

To cap it, local operating conditions were such that CIA had

further reason. to know that Calderon was not an agent. Why

CIA should report to the Warren Commission the suspicions of

an uninformed defector, known to be incorrect, presents a ~~

major question as to the thought processes of the author of the
draft report. (C)

The draft next asserts that Calderon's passible’ connections
with the DGI, and similar possible contacts with Oswald during
his visit to. Mexico City, were withheld from the Warren Commission
by CIA. It is noted that this is in error. The 19 June 1964
memorandum cited at page 0000085 of the draft report makes it
clear that this information was made available to Mr. Willens
of the Warren Commission. It was reviewed by your investigator
in June and August 1978. (U)

The assertions by the draft about a possible connection
between Calderon and American intelligence are simply in error.
The assertion of withholding information about the possibility
of ties between Calderon and the DGI, and about possible contacts
with Oswald, are gross error. That leaves the telephone
conversation to stand by itself, so far as any shred of
significance is concerned. (C)

The overall Calderon discussion is better fiction than
professional fact and analysis. Having decided to assign to
her some significance, the treatment twisted and turned to keep
the conclusion alive as each assertion proffered in support
collapsed. And in doing so, left intact the mistranslation
that seems to have sown the seed from which it germinated in the
first place. (U)


13-00000

(2) An erroneous working summary by a Warren Commission
investigator (Mr. Slawson) is seized by the author of the draft
report as the basis for arguing that CIA did not provide information
from telephone intercepts to the Warren Commission until early
April 1964. Depicting this as a "delay," the assertion is
then made that in some way it prejudiced the Warren Commission's
investigation (in the face of testimony to the contrary by
Warren Commission people about the cooperation of the Agency).

The assertions of the author, substituting his conclusions
for fact, must be doubted. (S)

When the present HSCA draft was first reviewed some time ago, the
author's attention was drawn to a 31 January 1964 memorandum from Mr.
Helms to Mr. Rankin, indicating that the nature of it had been discussed
some two weeks earlier between the two men. It is even indicated that
the sensitivity of the sources was discussed iri the earlier exchange
between the two men. Your draft makes it clear that the FBI had told
the Warren Commission about the sources, and it is quite possible that
Rankin--if not Slawson--knew.. That Rankin signed a letter on the
subject can be likened to letters that you and I have.signed to one
another, and that have not always been read carefully (as I know from
one or two discussions with you). (C) :

The point is that the 31 January 1964 letter reported in
extensive detail what CIA then knew about Oswald's activities in
Mexico City. This included the very material that the author of the
report said was not. provided the Warren Commission until April 1964.
While the sources were not specified in the letter, their reliability
was endorsed emphatically in a strikingly unequivocal manner. There
has been no significant addition to that information since then. (C)

It is not useful at this point to try and reconstruct the
failure of the Warren Commission investigator to focus on and react to
the facts in the 31 January letter. That the information had been
available to him is a matter of record, if the draft report can be
trusted. That he did err in this regard is the unavoidable fact.

Your investigator, having built his argument originally on an erroneous
description of this fact, nevertheless seeks to preserve the original
argument even after the initial basis for it essentially has been
destroyed. He is determined to perpetuate the error of the Warren
Commission investigator, and displays far less objectivity and flexibility
than did that gentleman. (U)

In the confused but categorical treatment of the subjects, the
author betrays his unfamiliarity with intelligence reporting procedures.



13-00000

be TFR.

One may’ take issue with the practice, but understanding it
should restrain the sweeping statements made in the draft. It is
standard procedure to report the facts, with an evaluation of the
source, but not a specification of the source. That practice was
followed in the written report, although it appears that oral
elaboration probably was provided as well. As a result, the HSCA
draft report is badly confused in its treatment of facts and sources,
and has sought to salvage the argument by referring to “original source
material" as a handwritten editorial insert. This transparent effort
to preserve the false presentation merely emphasizes its tendentious
nature. (U)

(3) Having sought to establish a non-reporting by

CIA in the Calderon case, and of the material available from
telephone taps, the. author reached down into his bag of ready
assertions and claims that this was due to CIA's concern for
sources and methods. It should be most clear that CIA has no
problem reporting the. facts, or in protecting its sources in doing
so. Well established practice makes this clear. The gratuitous
observation that the FBI failed to report out of respect for CIA's
sensitivities, without a shred of evidence, serves merely to
emphasize the aberrant quality of the author's analysis. (S)

Having introduced this unsupported assertion as a statement
of fact, the author tries to use it to reinforce his earlier
assertions. He ascribes practices to the Agency in forms that.
either are incorrect completely or that are unrecognizable as
described by him. It is clear that he is extensively uninformed
about the way the Agency functions in the reporting field. (U)

The detailed comments follow. | (U)
Fourth page. Handwritten notes. Substitute A-1 for Donald Bensen. (S)

Teast The two references to IGR in the second paragraph should
U

Page 005. Reference is made to "the Agency's sophisticated document

retrieval system." This is a reflection of the inexperience and lack of
knowledge on the part of the writer. The ADP systems are not all that
unusual, in addition to which there are a number of manual systems that

cannot

be called "sophisticated." The author has been told this, but

persists in the description. While it is a minor point, it nevertheless
is an imprecise description. (U)

A-1 in

Page 006. The footnote indicates the intention to use the symbol
lieu of the cryptonym AMMUG. Please do so in all places. I note

pages 78, 81-85, 90, 94, and 95. (S)


13-00000

Page 007. The author of the HSCA draft report seems to have
a problem in viewing the entire working arrangement and the understandings
at the time of the.Warren Commission. It therefore is.worth some comment
at this point. However well or poorly conceived those arrangements,
the fact is that the FBI had. responsiblity for primary investigative work.
CIA reported to it in detail. CIA-also responded to all Warren Commission
requests, as well as taking the initiative in reporting materials that
seemed relevant and significant. However, reporting to the FBI was, in
effect, appropriate reporting to the arm of the government that would in
turn report to the Warren Commission. It is doubted that there was any
real misunderstanding at the time that this is the way it was being done,
or that it was appropriate.. It would be an interesting line of inquiry to
consider. how current investigators, who have different views of how things
were or should have been, would ask questions in interviews on the subject.
There is much room for inadequate communications on this. In any event,
the one-dimensional description of what Warren Commission people "believed"
is too simplistic to serve the public's right to really have it told in
clear and accurate terms. (U) i

Page 008. I can't identify. CIA page 2000517 so cannot comment at
this time. (U)

Page 010. It would be more appropriate to describe this as Helms
designating WH Division to handle the matter, when initially it seemed
that the Agency's role would focus on Mexico. Scelso happened to be desk
chief at the time, so got the assignment within WH Division. (U)

Page O11. Delete reference to CIA surveillance in Mexico. (C)

Page 012. Delete Birch O'Neal's name, mentioned four times. (C)

Page 013. Scelso's recollection that the Mexico City Station (it
should not be mentioned in the unclassified paper) was the only Station
directly involved in the investigation during his tenure is wrong, as ten
Stations were tasked four days after the assassination, and all of them
were tasked immediately after the assassination. (C)

Same page. Delete O'Neal's name. (C)

Page 014. The thirteenth of December is the first half not the
latter half of December. (U)

Same page. The characterization of Scelso's "report" is incorrect,

‘when given the description of stating a "position." It is a factual

presentation of what was then known. (U)



13-00000

Page 015. References to the Netherlands, United Kingdom, and
Australia should be deleted. (C)

Page 018. The references to Win Scott and WH, in connection with
Mexico, should be modified. (C)

Page 024. References to Hall, Hartman, Dooley, and Murphy should
be removed. (C)

Page 025. References to Bagely and Hall should be removed. (C)
Page 026. References to Murphy and O'Neal should be removed. (C)

Page 030. The handwritten note in the middle of the page is literally
correct, but so phrased as to leave a distorted inference CIA did not give
the Warren Commission everything. For instance, if we had reports on why
the monkeys lost their tails in Zamboango, it would not be provided as it
had nothing to. do with the Kennedy assassination (although some HSCA
investigators might think it so). What the Agency did was to supply material
that. was deemed relevant. (U)

Page 031. The first word in the 6th line of the quoted testimony
should be "instructions" and not. "indications." (U)

Pagé 033-034. Helms' testimony giving his recollection.on that CIA
took no initiative vis-a-vis the Warren Commssion, but was only responsive,
is incorrect. The record reveals various CIA initiatives. The arrangements
at the time have a contribution to make to understending. The FBI had
primary responsibility. for conducting the investigation; it alone had the
manpower. CIA provided all kinds of reports to the FBI, in the context of
its primary investigative responsibility. It also responded to Warren
Lommission’ requests, as well as providing other materials on its own as
gudged appropriate. (U)

The comments of the draft about the "unfortunate. consequence” of
the Warren Commission's reliance on CIA seems to relate to the subsequent
revelations about the anti-Castro plotting. While it is wished that
someone at the time perceived a.possible tie between those activities
and. the assassination of the President, the simple fact is that it was
not perceived. The draft HSCA report, which we reviewed at-your offices,

‘makes the point rather strongly that the concept did not emerge until

the later 1960's, well after the Warren Commission inquiry. While CIA
accepts its failure to see what others did not (despite wide-spread
knowledge of the provocative nature of U.S. policies and activities

+ against Castro), the categorical condemnation of this presentation is

unbalanced. Even now, the relevance of the Castro plots are as much
hypothesis as fact. (U)


13-00000

Page 036. Scelso really didn't know the nature of the AMLASH
operation, yet nevertheless is prepared to speak broadly about it. An
indication of his gratuitous wisdom is his saying that he would have
AMLASH polygraphed. He: knew so little about the AMLASH operation that
he. did not know that AMLASH had refused the polygraph earlier. He also
clearly knew practically nothing about the nature of CIA's relationship
with him; it had no substance prior to the death of President Kennedy. (C)

Page 039. Scelso receives unusual space in the report. This is not
because he knew anything, but must be because he was. prepared to speak about
things that he did not know. He was in the overall investigation a month
and a half, and speaks. inaccurately about it. He was not in on thé AMLASH
operation, but speaks of it. He would never qualify as a competent witness
in court. (U)

Page 040. Title for Section II. The word "Sanctity” should be
replaced by the word "protection." (U)

Page 041. Delete reference to CIA surveillance operation in
Mexico City. (C)

Same page. Delete surveillance references in Mexico. The statement
in the paragraph ending five lines above the bottom of the page about ©
limitation of access to "original source materials," reflects the difficulty
the Committee has with intelligence reporting. No distinction is drawn between
the providing of substantive information, with evaluation of the sources and the
reliability of the information, and: protection of the actual identity of the
sources. It is correct to say that initially CIA limited access to the source,
but it is incorrect to leave that without balancing it with-a statement that
the substance of the. reports was conveyed. Intelligence reporting traditionally
does not reveal its sources. Perhaps this should always be done for a Con-
gressional investigation, but it is doubtful that such an unqualified practice
will be accepted. In any event, the presentation. of the draft is not accurate
or even-handed. (S)

Page 042. References to telephone and photograph operations in
Mexico City will have to be deleted. (S)

Same page. Scelso (speaking about telephone operations--which will
have to be deleted) was. doing his best to explain reporting procedures
(protecting the sources) although he doesn't do this very well either. (S)

Page 043. The FOIA document was reviewed but denied. Delete

reference. (C)


13-00000

Same page. References to Mexico City and telephone operations should
be deleted. (S)

- Same page. The word "State" instead of "ODACID." (C)
Same page. Again, O'Neal and telephone operations. (S)
Page 044. Delete reference to O'Neal and telephone operations. : (c)
Page 045. O'Neal. (C)

Same page. The discussion of Helms" desire to protect sources makes
it sound..as though this was unique during the Warren Commission period. . It
was merely a continuing application of established practice, however unfamiliar
to the uninitiated. (U)

Page 046. Delete Mexico City Station. (C)

Page 047. Delete references to telephone and photograph operations in
Mexico City and liaison relationships. (S)

Same page." The 31 January memo laid it all out. Additionally, the
covering. memo makes it appear that the sources had been discussed with Rankin.
Rankin's letter of 10 February is viewed by the HSCA as demonstrating that
he did not know about the telephone operations. Yet we know that Sam Papich
had already told the Committee in December that there were telephone operations
by one of the American agencies. (5)

Page 049. The statement at top of page is incorrect. Substantive
knowledge had been given (31 January report and Calderon debriefing). (C)

Same page. Reference to telephone operations must be deleted. (S)

Page 050. Section. Title--references to telephone operations there
as well as in the text. Delete. (S)

Page 051. Win Scott, telephone operations, and Mexico Station.
Delete. (C) :

Same page. The paragraph is wrong as well as referring to an intel-
ligence operation. It says "it appears doubtful that the Commission had been
given even partial access to the written material.” The author knows that is
not true. It does reflect accurately the misunderstending that initiated his
line of treatment. The fact is that the Commission had the substance in detail
with emphatic positive affirmation of the reliability of the information. Beyond
that, while the preceding statement says the Warren Commission didn't see it untii


13-00000

9 April, the draft also says it knew about it on 12 March. The writer
has difficulty keeping these facts straight, without reference to
security considerations. (C)-

Page 052. What Slawson thought about the 31 January 1964 memo,
that was so different from what his April memo said, is difficult to
understand today. He at least eventually got it right. (U)

Page 053. The author focuses on the transcript, ignoring the
detailed information that had been provided from it in another form.
He was not, in fact, limited to the Duran report. (C)

Same page. References to the Mexico City Station. In the quotes
the word "State" should replace "ODACID." (C)

Page 054.. The author still dwells on the transcripts even though
he knows that the Warren Commission investigator Slawson had all the
information. (C)

Same page. The reference to intercepts at the bottom of the
page, below the portion marked for deletion, should also be deleted. (S)~

Page 055. Delete a reference to telephone intercepts. The author
continues to fail to distinguish between access to the information and
knowledge of the source. By now he has also forgotten they were aware of
the fact of telephonic coverage. (5S)

Page 056. Delete two references to the intercepts. (S)

Same page. The rhetorical conclusion of the paragraph in the
middle. of the page might have stated alternatively that Slawson
simply mishandled the information that he had in considerable detail. (U)

Page 058. Bottom of page. After treating this subject in an.
inaccurate and confused manner, the. author continues to hold tenaciously
to his thesis that "initial withholding of original source material...
may have impeded" the Commission's ability to reach accurately reasoned
conclusions. It did no such thing. Slawson erred, but it didn't hurt
his ultimate findings. He at least had the quality of correcting his
errors. No evidence--other than some ESP quality of the author--supports
the assertion that the Warren Commission's inquiry was affected by what—
ever happened. (U)

Page 059. References to phone and photographic operations and Win

. Scott and Mexico City Station should be deleted. (5S)

od


13-00000

Same page. Clark Anderson's name withaut "e." (U)

Page 060. References to photograph operations and Win Scott
should be deleted. (S)

Page 061. References to Win Scott should be deleted as should be
the coverage of the Cuban and Soviet Embassies in Mexico City by CIA.
Once more, Slawson's errors are used by the author to support criticism
of CIA. (S)

Page 062. Delete Mexico City and photo operations. (S)

Page 063. Delete Mexico Station and photo operations.. (S)

Page 064. Delete Mexico City and CIA photo operations. (S)

Page 065. Delete telephone and photo operations and Mexico City. (S)

Page 066. Delete photo operations. (S) _

Page 070. Delete Mexico City Station. (C) SERENE

Same page. References in first quote should be CD 674. (U) °

Page O71. Delete CIA Station in.Mexico. (C)

Page. 073. Telephone intercepts and Mexico Station. Delete. (S)

Page 074. ‘This detailed discussion cannot be declassified. An
excerpt from a casual telephone coversation five hours after the assassination
of President Kennedy, is assigned a significance by the HSCA draft that the
actual words do not support. The draft then attempts to build a further
case for the significance of the speaker,. thereby reinforcing its asserted
significance. It then returns to the conversation, criticizing CIA for not
reporting a meaningless item that did not merit reporting. (S)

The following presentation in the HSCA draft provides the basis for
the present comments:

During the course of the conversation, the unidentified
caller asked Luisa if she had heard the latest news (of the
assassination). Luisa replied in a joking tone:

"Yes, of course, I knew (sic) almost before Kennedy." (Ibid.)

10


13-00000

Paraphrasing the CIA's telephone intercept transcript,
it states that the caller told Luisa the person apprehended for
Kennedy's slaying was "President of one of the Committees of the Fair
Play for Cuba." “Luisa replied that she also knew this. Luisa -
inquired whether the person being held for the killing was a "gringo."

The unidentified caller replied, "yes." Luisa told her caller that she

had learned nothing else about the assassination and that she had
learned about the assassination only a little while ago. The
unidentified caller commented: (S)

"We think that if it had been or had seemed...public
or had been one of the segregationists or against integration

who had killed Kennedy, then there was, let's say, the possibility

that.a sort of civil war would arise in the United States;
that contradictions would be sharpened...who knows."

Luisa .responded:

"Imagine, one, two, and now, that makes three. (She
laughs. )" :

The HSCA presentation then quotes a memorandum by a CIA employee,
written in 1975, based on. the above mistranslation of what Luisa Calderon
said. The translation apparently was accepted at face value. The
memorandum discusses the telephone coversation as thé only item in the
intercept coverage "that contains the suggestion of fore-knowledge of
expectation." . (S)

In fact, the translation on which that is based, and that is used
in the HSCA draft, is in error. The author knew this, but still elected
to employ the mistranslation, probably because however tenuous the
significance given it, the argument (developed before. the correct ©
translation was brought to his attention) is best served by using it
instead of the correct one. (S)

In handling the reams of. information that it receives, CIA
regularly appraises information before disseminating it. It does
not. disseminate bad reporting. ‘In the present instance, when the
transcript was received at Headquarters, the correct meaning was noted.
It should have been translated as follows: (s)

"Yes, of course, I found out (learned about it) almost
before Kennedy."

a0


13-00000

The context and timing of the conversation is clear. It was
a joking conversation (as admitted in the HSCA draft), five hours after
the assassination, when the television news broadcasts had been filled with
details. Luisa Calderon and her unidentified caller both had the same
incorrect information about Oswald's association with a Fair Play for
Cuba Committee (it was learned later that there was no such committee,
and that. Oswald had developed a sham Committee, apparently to develop”
credentials). Calderon, however, did not know as. much as her caller,
not knowing that the assassin was a "gringo," having to ask. Joking
about the death of a public figure she probably considered unfriendly
to Cuba, she made the casual remark: (s)

".eel learned about it almost before Kennedy."

The draft seeks to give this major significance, retaining the
incorrect translation and all, although followed by her elaborating
statement "that she had learned about (it) only a little while ago."
It warranted no attention then, nor does it merit it now. Its
treatment. is inaccurate (tenaciously holding to the mistranslation that
made it a question at all) and exaggerated beyond reason. (S)

Page 075. We agree with the statement appearing following
the quotation--"Standing by itself, (the) cryptic comments do not
merit serious attention." Read in the context discussed above, this
correct judgment is reinforced. (C)

Page 077. The correct citation of the CSCI in the next to last
paragraph; was 1965, not 1963. It post dates the Warren Commission. - (U)

Page 080. We would prefer no reference in an unclassified report
to what is in the Calderon 201 file. (C)

Page 081. Langosch/Swenson. Replace true name with pseudonym. (C)
Page 084. Langosch/Swenson. (C)

Page 085. The 19 June 1964 memorandum reported showing a number
of debriefing reports to the Warren Commission investigator. Among them
were reports of the defector's reference to Calderon's possible DGI
connections, as well as her reported contact with Oswald during his
Mexico visit. The HSCA investigator seems to have become confused
in his notes of this exchange. The facts do not support his statements.

(u)

12



13-00000

Reference to possible ties to CIA or American intelligence
must be designated as a remarkable assertion. The defector was
speaking to American intelligence, which knew Calderon had no
such ties; the defector was not qualified to speak authoritatively
except as to someone's suspicion of the possibility. He was
speaking to the authority. Surely, there is no requirement for
CIA to report something it knows to be untrue? (U)

Page 087. Delete references.to the telephone conversation. (S)
Page 088. Delete Mexico City Station. (C)

Page 089. In response to the rhetorical questions at. the top of.
the page, CIA did provide the Warren Commission with information about
Calderon's alleged DGI ties, and her possible knowledge of Oswald.

The 19 June 1964 memorandum cited on page 0000085 of the draft HSCA
report shows that the defector debriefings on these points were shown the
Warren Commission: investigater. As for why alleged ties with CIA-or
American intelligence were not reported, the source was the defector,

who expresses suspicions on the subject. However, his suspicions

cannot be given the sort of credence the author would wish, to build

the case of CIA not reporting, when CIA knew these were erroneous
statements. The author of the draft report seems confused om who was *
saying what to whom, no. serious claim should be made that this erronous
information should be passed on. (U)

Same page. Langosch/Swenson. (C)

Page 090. Having:beaten around the bush he states the: finding
that Agency files reveals no "ostensible connection." They reveal no.
connection. Any other statement is untruthful. (U)

Page 091. Line 13. CIA Document Dispatch No.... (U)
‘Line 23. CIA Document Dispatch No.... (U)

Page 092. Dave Ronis' name appeared six times. Delete. (C)
Page 093. Ronis' name two times and Piccolo. Delete. (C)
Page 094. Delete Ottawa reference. Cite IN 68894. (C)
Page 095. Line 2. CIA Document Dispatch No....(U)

Same page. Delete the Ottawa references, per above. (C)

Page 101. Line 17. CIA Document Dispatch No....(U)

43



13-00000

Page 101. The statements about CIA's "withholding" are worth
addressing again. CIA did not withhold. The author takes a very thin--
if not non-existent-~-interpretation of significance in a telephone
conversation, and uses it as the basis for making strong statements of
an unqualified nature. He then seeks to reinforce the tissue of his
case with a series of hopefully mutually supporting untrue statements on
other points. While there may be disagreement on the significance of
Calderon's statements (if the Committee feels committed to staff attitudes)
there can be no disagreement with the record. CIA did report the defector'’s
statements about Calderon's possible DGI ties and possible Oswald
contacts. (S)

Same page. The presentation of the whereabouts of the memorandum
bearing the sequential number 40 serves to demonstrate the author's
inability to surrender a position once he had become committed to it,
whatever the evidence. (U)

The question arises from-a memorandum of the debriefing of a
Cuban defector on the subject of Oswald. Memoranda of debriefings of the
defector were numbered sequentially, and the one on the debriefing about
Oswald does not bear the number 40, which it would be expected to bear-
in that sequence. (C)

Certain things are clear. There was one complete debriefing of the
Cuban on the subject of Gswald. There is a memorandum of such a
debriefing, at the time it should have occurred, but it does not bear the
number. There is no memorandum in the file, numbered 40. It so happens
that there was a follow-up question on one subject, and this resulted in a
debriefing of the. defector on that question. The significance of this
event is that it provides the answer.to. why the memorandum of oe
debriefing on Oswald did not bear a number. (C)

The follow-up memorandum recites the handling of the earlier
debriefing and memorandum. It states-that the memorandum was dictated
to a secretary in.CI Staff (which was a different component from that
handling the debriefing, and which also was responsible for the Agency's
suport of the Warren Commission inquiry.) The memorandum was typed in
that component. Simply stated, the secretary who typed the memorandum
was not a part of the component that usually handled these memoranda,
and was not a part of the procedure that provided the sequential numbering.

(c)

14



13-00000

There was one complete debriefing of the defector on Oswald.
There is a memorandum of that debriefing. It happens to not bear the
number 40. And why it does not has been made clear. The author may not
admit that he understands it, but no alternative answer is conceivable.
I believe that you have my earlier letter of 29 September. 1978 on this
subject. (U)

Page 102. Liné 20. Delete Hidalgo and Piccolo. (C)
Page 105. Lines 10 and 20. Delete 201-749651. (C)

Page 108. The references to the AMLASH trial in 1965 should
be deleted. Reportedly, Castro told the HSCA that he knew that AMLASH
was Cubela; that is not for us to confirm. (C)

Page. 110. Were the 1977 Task Force Report "intended as a
rebuttal" it would not have accepted some of the SSC views, nor would
it. have explored new areas as it did. Anyway, how does the author
know. As seems to be his practice, he relied on his instincts
rather than evidence; he never inquired. (U)

There is one major section of the 1977 Report which takes

: issue with Book V of the Church Committee Report. This has to do with
the AMLASH operation. The report accepted in principle certain of the views

of Book V of the Church Committee Report and carried its inquiry into
yet other areas, and beyond those of the 1967 IG Report. The 1977 Task
Force Report did, in fact, conclusively refute the Church Committee
presentation of the AMLASH operation in Book V. But that is not all
the report did. The narrow, specialized, focus of the author seems to
have contributed to his misreading this too. (U)

Page 111. Langosch who really didn't know anything about the
AMLASH operation, as he has revealed in statements he has made about it,
speaks broadly once again. He wasn't privy to the operation and what he
knew when he testified to HSCA must be based on what he thinks he has
learned since. He is not a qualified witness, however much of what
he says appeals to the author of the report. (U)

As this paper has been designated as one that you wish to
publish in unclassified form, it occurred to me that it might be
appropriate to bring these preliminary comments to the attention of
key Committee Members--Chairman Stokes, as well as Mr. Preyer and
Mr. Devine, Chairman of the Kennedy Subcommittee and Ranking Republican
Member, respectively. If they are to judge any eventual issues

15


_ that may arise over papers such as this one, it would be useful

if they had the opportunity of developing some personal. appreciation;
comparison of these comments with the staff draft may help serve that
purpose. Three extra copies, in addition to the original addressed
to you, are therefore included. If you decide to not make the
copies available as I suggest, it would be appreciated. if you would
so advise me. Of course, I stand ready to discuss with them any
questions that they may have. (U)

Meanwhile, it is suggested that after you have reviewed the
above comments, we arrange to discuss them together. (U)

Very truly yours,

S. D. Breckinridge

Principal Coordinator, HSCA - -

Enclosure

Distribution;
Original - Adse
~ SA/DDCI
- Lc
- Mr. Rininger
- Mr. Holmes
= Mr. Sturbitts
- Mr. Sullivan
- OLC/Subj .
- OLC/Chron :
OLC/SDB/ksn - 15 February 1979

eee ee ee

16
