# 104-10247-10061

## Page 1

104-10247-10061

RETURN TO GIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

A' TRUNK-11

(SHOULD

MSC NO 12 (TWELVE).

RECEIVED MSG NO '11 (ELEVEN). INMY POSSESSION

#CANS NOS. 8 AND 16 (EIGHT AID SIXTEEN), THE ONE MARKED 8 IS IN PERFECT

CONDITION.: THE ONE RAPED 16 KAS OPENED BY O

XANTRUNK-18)

ON BOTH SIDES (ENDS) AÑO TE BATTERIES WHI. I GOT WET WERE SULFATED

(OXIDIZED) ALTHOUGH THE RECEIVER, AFTER HAVING BEEN CLEANED, WORKED

WELL ENOUGH.

ON SUNDAY, FIZ 27TH (SEPTEMBER), I RECEIVED THE MESSAGE

SENT. THE FIRST PART WAS DECIPIERED ALTHOUGH THE REST COULD NOT BE

DUE TO UNSERVICEABLE GROUPS. THE OTHER DOCUMENTS ON HOW TO OPERATE

THE EQUIPMENT WERE SAVED. EVERY FIFTEEN DAYS I GO OVER TO CARDENAS.

JHAS NOT BEEN ABLE TO TAKE ANYTHING ELSE OUT OF THE CACE).

04 )SAYS IT IS VERY DRICEROUS AT THIS TIME.

.. 04 :

WAS OPENED

ALL THE PACKAGES BECAUSE

cale

(ANTRUNK-15) HAS GIVEN ME THE DETAILS

OF WIAT THEY CONTAIN. DURING MY LAST VISIT I TOLE

THAT HE

HAD TO (RECOVER) THE PACKAGES AND ASKED HIM TO LET ME KNOW WHCH THEY

SERE IN HIS POSSESSIC. FELIX (AYTRUNK-10) CALLED NY SISTER-IN-LAS

(THE MOTHER OF AMICE-14) AND SAID HE WAS COMING TO SEE IT. I HAVEN'T

SEEN HIM FOR OVER TWO MCIRES: I CA'T MOVE (AROUND) BECAUSE IY CAR

IS BROKEN AND I CANNCT FIO THE SPARE PARIS (TO REPAIR IT). BECAUSE

OF MY ILL HEALTH I AM O' HALE PAY AND CAN'T GET AROUND BECAUSE OF

LACK OF MONEY

2i2

END

END

&CAN'S REFERRED TO ARE TRO CONCALIENT DEVICES THICH CONTAINED OWVL

ECEIVERS BROUGHT IN TO ATRUCK INFIL/CXFIL AREA 0% OPERATIO: A1TAU:

VIII, MARCH 64.

iote that while ANTRUNK-il aurbered this ressage 12, this is the 15ch

message received from this agent..

..

---

