# 104-10172-10350

## Page 1

104-10172-10350

Leuxiènio Fécrelaire.

Chef de la Section consuleire

de l'Anbassado do l'URSS

diciani

luncilles Istiriele

Ariele torderieri

portelleen

ja Nina Volal!

belsinki

10.9.37.

/ 00000 000, 60-001.0910

¡ángolo do dautore in menino.

edo 1.

---

## Page 2

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

REDCAP/IVE TA-CE

SECRET

PERSONAL INFORMATION DATA 201-150156

ADI

OSPICE

AODBE88

Hamentle 48 A 28

MOWE A009288

ATAS ON CArPORT COLOS, S083

DOLUB, Q. Bad O0L0B, GreGares

''''' 2nd Secy & Ch Consalar Sectior

OPHA -2220

Debrie 108

I COME

os Lominter, 0b

rulbright

MEIOHT

#E 1 00#

PHOTO

grantee 1n

ca. 185 lbe.

Hele 1935-

HA1@ LOOK,

56

•оаг

black, very

for btrlines rall dressed with

bond from aida to side when tabang

-Ca. 5°34"s 811ntening, clean haven

ukrainian.

akins 100ks I1ka thalains foxy

peasant; black bair; straight, brushed

Foreality

06

Eobratesy-.cA. 1924-25

13 ANS 25 OFA 2356

BIRTHPLACE

22

abort, stocky

Odessa or Kharkov

FAMILY

ife in Minard, fury attractiv

Nina Federovna

• 1927, 835. 5 Hor 56 (OPHA 2082). B. 24 Mor ?

i (on as):

22

DOCUMEN

Cal, 1a Bor Ariy during WII & ses ection in leninered & Moscoe - sas

vounded 6 tims, Belo 10 lot forigi assigment.

0b

Hecht

PERSONALITY (Habita,

anoy. hobbles. 118o.

978., but bave hed no success. Appeared plenant to source, but after

bombat ruthless latervier with some flan nothers who were Desting him

to allor retura as phals sons fros UsER, «ppeared quite atara. Douree

thought subj van hard Counde, altbough be admired the material acoco

pliamenta of 08. Joala Buby l8 very nuch a Bor Conde and 10 D0t

defectable. Very ploasant and jovial vita good sanse of tumor.

very sharp & vitty

то вза 10.

498

SECRET

2320

---

## Page 3

OFFICE AcRess

MONE AGOES

SECRET

PERSONAL INFORMATION DATA 201-150156*

# hand

OLIB, Ciparty to

6л9 ро сВтогОчу

BA TEE

HE 104S

8+&$

PHOTO

DATE OP BIT

FAMILY

DOCUMERTATION

06

#locht.

conta

LANGUAGES

antons cach a poon lets sport titting. Strong powerful bundan

percing artificial Blances, 10 very escitablo, flirtatious mad the

I-lor-Itali type. Loves to ent and shakes his hond fros side to side

when he talks. Converaition Implies that he la well-educated and

pouledgrable an dip buatness, Muralan and current evnta Lavolving ta

EN. Ils Inorlodge Of I1f0 beyond UBER 18 mager. Toole munars an

PEOSOMALITY (MODI

-e.

498

SECRET

::x:: 71

---

## Page 4

SECRET

"'s Replaced In Testorich snary, known rIB.

subj'a face vas familiar to sources vhan firen the name source stated

DR-20. 1239

that there una a It, Cal. of thie Inat same in Che NGB.. Bource did not 26 Jul 5T

mor which diructorte be mu in - might be technica. section - but

PSOIPPERZO

ine that he van a "fairly high boßa." source could not recall whether

a had ever seen subj so does pot, mou if this de the dan person

22

mPly Aus 57, suby called on VACcin/ll naked that that varn him 1i

O 8A-2072

ait. Of say sor official vure about to do png's son pinimal a he poulo

1 19 0ct 21

01

lou rant of 2d seo presume that he la so povertel as to remove osticial.

of his on country tha Mal? Il you are rently that powerful, no an

you anyway a whut are your roml dutses bere la Jal?" Bubj disturbed

1d not pursusatha question. (Sta Comment, Subj's question Internatis

1 vor of DOORINO oper. Dylag to deter ine date of chat.

Weg for (ApPpIR-19 1dén.

CONTACTS gOUrCe InViTad tO fire lectures on mith In UBSR. 8000 arter

receiving the invitation, be a vife vere in bur of Hele restaurnet, whe

Bubj and fris RAS, • Fini Coule, cane up to his table a introduces

themselves. Buby mentioned sourc a Intrent trip to UssR. Buby told

source to come to for Dab next day to met the Cultural Attache, who

could arringe to git source to USSR & back without cont. Source tavited

Buby and RAsiC to bin hon for dinner fallowing Sunday. Both accepted.

Subj pald entire bill. Wen source went sor lab next day mit yurty

VORONE A Subj, also SKRONTY. Vo lnvitod himself to dimes with Subj

at source'a bome. Bubj, VORONII & vives vent source'a for dinner,

bearing may presents.

RASKE did not come.. Bubj told source "this

RASIE 10 a meine." Polt that 1t necessary to use these I'inn Cordes

palitically but that they cannot be trusted.

27

Subj had contact u/Prof arid

hecht (Fulbright), " Russian speaking

Cry. 2413

research sebolar whose intareat 1n l9th century Russla. Bacht, through 9 Apr 57

R1211ker (Ch/Pol Sec), mst Jane Richline ho obtained a report for lga.

Flecht reported that COLUB very down on the Am Imb & Amriel. Wanted to

eo (d/172282,COFLJ-1792, (OriA,1813, which predate the debriating of

darthur j. Lobater, (Debriefing ehanguo some of the pointe.)

ol VAsCINs/1) tavitod to a farewell lunch for Ivan Yefimovich ERONEY

(Anion RI8 ubo unad title co Consul in Fini at tines) 17 Dee 56. Also

present ins (fau) GOLUB, tho was Introduced as the new Consul. Aubj

SECRET

25/

---

## Page 5

14-00000

CONTACTS - OCEALEd

0(/V/2) passed to station. COLIB had recently couplalned to Jobannes

VIOLATII ChE! the PLIa DeCUrITY pOLICA Mere Dot payInE any atta to

OSses al INItIal l AmrIcRa espiones 1n fiel, adding that the dova

bad into regarding bestera espionag in Mial a vould be glad to.

Miminh 18 to the necurity palice, D011s maid some of the lestern

cases vere all a sons bri. Did not elaborate. Source did not say vost

VIRALATIAN 'S SERLY VAS tO COLIS. 'V/1) &39 fald It rould beboore AI8

officar in lala to Do as enrafal as ponsible emuse 1t quito possible

security pallee vould rosive ordere to beep their eyes abarply peeled

for opur tawlring Mulah citizens. Pendleton briefed all ventor

ODEARL people.

puTT in said be had rec'd a rning fur day iriler

Iron & Iriendly Man offer that abother CUNT Offer lind been seen toc

triguently driving a Voltmugn v/ dipl plates sound trutest yarde of

Hess, (501n us ODuaT's energerle factory a freight car marting

progann.) The ODONT ann said lin faally and noticod flan polloomen

on the beat outaide bla bouse bad recently begun to go to phone booth a

further develogmenta. Ol

• 31 De 57, MutATIOn/S told Station that sabg had vinited ess M

a Interior so vicurity polleo baving contacta vith Westerners. v/10

ma told that 1t had no connection with him; fill i free country a

people had right to talk iith ary one tbey pleased. Min of Int asked

hen exetly vost be vas driving at - Baby vas evalve a gave a vague

por sequitur unver which tire no hint as to what proof the Borlets vere

inlking about. ian of Int told COLIN 11 bor gort had any official

complaints to mis be abould ube then thra proper channels. When auled

11 De thought there vure any deeper aleniflonce to these sor mabits,

O VARIATION/Inalted that ha did not expect the soviete to do anythin

more than drop these conversational bite.

a 17.3000

3 Ja 50

---

