# 104-10169-10092

## Page 1

104-10169-10092

JIVAVE

BOy V. HATLIKETON

John C. TARBELl/at

Philip Go ELMARD

SECRET

UPG-7410

ST. July 63

MIRA 72-1

= CO/C

00

8 -[PHANER CItY] (los CINCSO).

160-7

Cy onch to Miami reps. of:

State, J.B.I., IANS,

Cuntoms, Harder Patrol,

U.S.C.G.

TPIC

SOurCo, AIRAI-1 on 11 July 1965.

Croup 18 Included from

Automatie Downgrading

and Doclan 111cation

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

¿Do Not Reproduce

---

## Page 2

CONFIDENTIAL

CONTLLOLAND DISSE

NO FOREIGN DISJRI

3

Cuba

Posalble Unification of the

Second National Front of the

Escambray and the Cuban Revolu

tionary Junta

87 July 1985

3 and 6 July 1985

united states, Alas

(11 July 1965)

UrG 7410

A Cuban entle with excellent contacta in the Movimiento Revolu

cionario del Pueblo (MRP, Revolutionary Movement of the People)..

He hum boen an accurate reporter on this organization and on

general exile politial developmente since about nid- 1903.

Representativos of the Sogundo Frente Incioml del Escaabray

(SINE,

Socond National Front of tbo Focambray), and the Junta

Revolucionaria Cubana (JURE, Cuban Revolutionary Junta) not on

5 July 1965 to discuss the poastbility of the two groups Joining

forcel®

The only agreotont reached was that each organteation

vould nare a contact comittee to diacuns the mtter.

Aurollo Nazarto Sargent, & leading official of the siNE, and

Andron Nazario Sargent,

him brotber, represented the SFNE. The

JURY vas ropresented by Manolo lay Rivero and Antonio Veciana

Blanch, -2 loudor of Alpha-60. Tlogo liedina Hernandez,

• o1 ibe

8711S.

alao attended the meting. DE. Armando Fleites Diu%,

mlitary coordinator of the sint, man invited but ald not attend

On 6 July Ray not with the escutive comittee of iN, but no

further agreesent was reached.

Bourco Comments Vecian. maid he rould cafinitely retire fro

Tho ERY - XIDM-66 - SENE Alliance on 1 August.

Ho plans to

lo to Puerto Rico and ongage in the import of automobiles.

Told Commuts C3DB 313/01919-65, dated 1 June 1066, trot thim

Tiano sourch, reported on Vecian's remignation from the

Abblance.

Source Comments

• Aurollo Masarlo, Vecinna and Modina Real that

both croupis

would benofft by the

Andrea Narario and

by uniting with fay, who han failed. Actually, Androm Azarto

probably frace the loss of polltical power for the lins, witle

Armando Nasario probably anticipates permonal publicity

attor

• muse manful operation againat Culo.

COMIDENTIAL

CONTECULED DIUORY

NO YVIERON DIBOKY

---

