# 104-10185-10110

## Page 1

104-10185-10110

do to sa la

da made di escalas l

18. at' B.C. intra 809 and 906

1 MO8

nasaid of she Lagionage St

SECRET

FOREIGN

DISSEN

COUNTRY Cuba

SUMICT JUlIaN NOVAS Fernandez

REPORT NO.

DATE DISTR

NO. PAGSS 2

REFERENCES

CSCI-316/00699-64

27 August 1964

DATE OF

1964

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

PLACE &

DATE ACO.

D: C.:

AUguSt. 1504

FISLO REPORT NO

THIS 15 UNEVALL

7.30

GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE.

APPRAILAL CA COA

IS TENTATIVE..".

SOURCE A forner Cuban IS officer who sorved with the Cuban Intelligence

Strvico until April 1964.

Headquartors Consents

The following report is öne of a series containing personality

Information provided by the source and includes supplementai

Information Iron the records o this Agency.

It 1s roquested that the addressees take no action on any of

the individuals mentioned in the porsonality reports without

first checking with this Agency.

Source ins shown a photograph of Julian NOVAS Fernandez

source Identified him as a Cuban 'intelligence Officer

Source saw NOVAS at the Cuban Embassy In Hosico Cir

March 1954 and assunod he was a lunctionary thore.

, 2, 3, 4, 5,

Heacquarters Comments

ilthough source saw Julian XOVAS Fernandez it the cuban

ambassy in Mexico City in March 1964, the records of this

Agendy revial that source was probably in error in

assuning that NOVAS was assigned to that Embassy and

it is

noro likely

that he was just passing through.

The lollowing

traces by this Agency is the basis for

this conclusion.

.24

2.

a report dated. 24 March 195%,

sticed thai Jullan NOVAS Fctnandez arrived in Kingston,

Jamaica, on IS March 1961, to take up his duties at the

Cuban Consulate in Kingston 2s Commercial Attache.

said that NOVAS has the appearance of an American

spocks excellent English.

Since his arrival he. has been

especially occupied with girls. It should be noted that

SECR

NO FOREIGN

DISSEM

STATE

APIAY

R22

CISCLANA

se e: Field distribution indicond by "#")

NAVY

CINCSO F

AIR

I&NS

• INSA

1 OC

FET 2

=/S4/EOP

2/52/110R

SICILLIA

2 CHECI

:/S:/R

I'Is

B/IT

-WAS DOI

"/Si/CI

TE MAN 1965,

/SA 7 (1), IN 1 (2), CIA, RID 1

Then wins

201-747936

-LX-1645

CSCI-316/00399-64

NO PROJECT (AMUGAL

LIAISON I•

---

## Page 2

3.

5.

äis til tidiot accoupary him ard source speculated tast teren

delayed in vien o foras' prescit inciicaiod for

luminire civcrsion.

In a 10j0it dated much 1964, this same source said that

Julian Otis fernandez, the Cuban Connercial Attache zi tao

was born on 2 Sopcebor 1938,

in Mabaila,

le carded diplo-atic passoort D/Ga/So taich

vas issued in dabana on 20 February 196%.

His home icaress was

given as Carman do. 1S, Vibora.: He arrived in Kingston fros,

Mexico oi IS nich 1954, on jericana Flight Juaber 305.

Tus sae source, in a report dated 28 April 1964, stated that

the wize of Julian NOVAS Fernandez,

the recently arrived Cuban

Connorcial Attache, arrived in Kingston

22 April 1964,

via "csico.

Ker name is Anarilis fIta VALDES Hijuelós and

she was born on 19 day 1937, in Jiquand,

Oriente, Cuba.

VALDES

has been indisposed since her arrival in Kingston; this is

probably duc to her advanced pregnancy. Her home address in:

Cuba is Avenida 31, Number 3622, Fapana.

She carried diplonatic

passport D/us/239, issued in Habana 'on 9 April 196%.

This same source, in a report dated 9 day 1964, noted that

the saiday and allowances of the new Cuban Commercial Attache;

Julian NOV'S Fernindez,

suggests that he is the new Cubit

Intelligence Service chief ¿u

Jamaica, succeeding Gerardo

SANCHEZ Robert.

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEY

---

