Prow-toora-1o0t a

::(Wexico City) REPORT K0s/MAl-s#5” LOCAL FILS

20. OF Pascs pee MC. OF BACs Ss
RPCRT VAIS By: Bruce 0. Sturgess 4Pz 2000 a

DSTRIAUT ION:

2y OCPY pewfVarray Es7Van DoreBiALLy TC:
~~ i-Esbassy al NTO clA
is RETURN TS Coniy

2-Piles Back prose :

S

wn CAte Vises LIBEPHENTPR-2 Fv Clos
LIBETEERITE-2

SAR, VP Tai uate, al C0.2 086

Attached
Vins eeeeen tae ih abet Soe 8 further existing

hid



Place Aequiredy

cae

OOTY: Perr Ne. Slat?
Feb luca

2 a das
Sup fect: iaoiatear sane pres Sel the Report

by. saith ok pc between ta oz 2.
de México and the Daily Worker) :
\i(Mexted city) o acvired: 18 April 1948

Evalaiicn: Bea ia
Surce: LIBETHENITE-1 and LIBETHENITE-2

Ti AIGLSiCATIN:

Liam ses ©

Date of ffrrnation: 16 April 1948

Dete -f Ro, ort: 11 May 1948

SECRET

REGISTRY copy

Sheff pr AAS

guucrions

REITER oan,


qa 4 April 18, 1945, this office was abl» to

obtain a carbos copy ofa letter propared on the stationary
trea official organ of the Eaxican Con-

t-Far is Gated April 16, 1938, und 1s
‘iened by iaeqaiel de s
\Come7 Island C.P.,

It is eicressed to
3 GaP he ati St., Brooalyn, B.Y.,
am! is as, folloss: Pacer Beceeemeecteccemtecstectent

“Dear Frienis:

"For reasons wiien ve cancot state our news-
pager, °The Volee ‘ef “exico’ bas mot bean
published for several seaths. We of the msg
o imagenent bsive undertaken publication umier
comlitions of bazkrugtey aud dest. In order
to resams publication ang tritiste a fum-
- Walsirg caszeign we are forced to cake agpoals
“ to our friercs in tae United States.

s

"You can readily umierstard what it means to
‘ our seople anc cur crgatization to be withoct
@ Bewspaper in these critica] times, Please
don"t dcestrcy this letter as just another
appeal for famis, end see ubet you cam do to
aie us. Any contribatica regardless of bow
scall it may te may help us resume sublice—
tion. Our address is Atenas 56, Wexico, D.F.°

Inforwant stated that an identical letter was

pase lt Meal bade Re eeced il seis
itdivicuals tates:

= MASEAT~AS CESTSR
237 Bleecker Street

Bew York, 5. Y. “ete of i i E
(ieee exteers career - ii aii a £
439 B. 145 Street Ree z
Sew York, B. Y. ° 4
&

TR

{ B.SHIRGmS mIGrs Co uER
159 Dyckean Street
Bew York, 5. Y.

Way

§ yormvnus coma
350 B. 81 Street
Ee York, 5. Y.

@ REGISURY COPY =

Set



{ sEST SIDS CENTER
73 W. 99 St.
Sew Yori:, x. Y.

| LoweR RAST SILE CLuz
154 Clinton St.
Wew York, 5. Y.

{ JEFFIRSOL CLUB.
201 YW. 72 St.
Kew York, N. Y.

| LotR HarLk. CLUB
11582 Lexington Ave.
New York, li. Y.

{ HORUS: CHATER
200 ¥. 135 8t.
New York, N. ¥.

| rornes carrer
201 Second Ave.
Few Yorx, R. Y.

| MELO: CENTER
868 East 160 st.
Bronx, N. Y.

+ BRI! i COLAUNITY CENTER
{ 3200 y Island Ave.
Brocklyn, BH. ¥.

VILLAGE FORUM
430 Sixth Ave.
New York, W. Y.

{BORO HALL MARKIG® FORUM
363 Fulton st.
Brooklyn, . Y.

/ ABE LISCOLH CLUB
57 W. 125 St,

Hew York, HB. Y.
UUITY CENPER

\ wir :

Kew York, H. Y.

\SECTION HEADQUARTERS

269 W. 25 8t.
Hew York, NW. Y.

-2-

SECRET

HOMME TIONG


: - _ Sechet

| East HARLEM: CLUB
471 E. 116 st.
. New York, N. Y..

\¥AST MIDTOWN CLUB
324 Second Ave.
New York, WN. Y. .

Also on April 18, 1946, this office inter-
cepted ! latter hn (feria 6, 1848, prepared on the station-
ery of the New boas City. The letter is ad-
cressed to S +3 General of the Mexican
Communist, » and is sign Jol PITTEAN ass

« fditor,-fn ite "etter, PIP xplains that ¢ diy Wo
was Preparing a special May Day issue, one Pasture of whic!
was to have been the growth of international working class
solidarity against the offensive of Wall Street imperialism.
PITTKAN in his letter to ENCINA requests that the Tatter in-

a dividual ie-edfately send by air mail a brief greeting to the

Lj American working class. A photostctic copy of this letter

Pr been prepared and is being retzined in the files of this
office,

(a) SECREI

~ ee
