# 104-10105-10137

## Page 1

104-10105-10137

UNCLASSIFIED

"MELANAL

USE ONLY

CONFIDENTIAL

SECRET

UTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT: (Optionol)

Review for Approval - Manuscript Submitted by

MT. David A. Phillips

FROM:

EXTENSION

NO.

J.

F.

Mechan

C/EAB, 4E33 Hq.

7770

DATE

5 Jan 1976

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and

wilding).

DATE

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

OMMENTS (Number each comment lo show from who

to whom.

Drom a line across column aftor each comment.

RECEIVED

FORWARDED

1.

C/CCS

GH-44, Att: Mr. H. Schor

B IN DOD

2.

3.

4.

5.

6.

7.

8.

%.J..F. MÉEHAN

C/EAB 4E33

Subject, a retired Agency

staff employee and former

C/LA Div., has submitted

the attached manuscript

containing three (5) chapter.

of a book he has in

preparation.

Coordination

for review and comment is

requested to determine if

the material: (1) is

classified, (2) was learned

while the writer was

employed by the Agency,

or (3) has not been placed

in the public domain by the

Agency.

Please note author's query

for information contained

in paragraph 3 of his letter

FYI.

The author had

previously submitted

Chapters 1

and VIII which

were security approved with

deletions.

11.

Coordination for review is

being conducted with LA Div.

C1 Staff, CCS, DDO/SS/SOG, •

and DDO/SSU.

i2.

•It would be appreciated if

this office could have your

comments before COB

16 Jan 1976.

13.

iz.

•I8 JAM 1S7:

is.

310 USE PREHOUS

SCinOriS

SECRET

D

CONFIDENTIAL

I TOA

REVERSE SIDE

INTERNAL

USE GULY

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 2

1 to 9:

CCS recommends deletion of that part of the last sentence, following

the semi-colonnof the first paragraph on page 10 of Chapter XI, which99

identifies

pas the site of, Agency training courses. L

and while its CIA

affiliation has been alleged numerous times in the press, no confirmation

of this affiliation has been made by the Agency. Mr. Phillips' comments

as a former senior Agency officer can be interpreted as constituting

official acknowledgement of the CIA

relationship.

HC

---

