# 104-10192-10013

## Page 1

104-10192-10013

19-300-11

DEX GADA

LASSIFY TONE NO 1G-L IS/1

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

MFG. 1-69

ROUTING

FROM:

UNWAVE

ACTION

INFO

22

SECRET

9HE NIO O SET TO BRANCH D

2

3

10054

DESTROY L

SIO

X RID COPY (COPY ISSUED TO: IW, SOO AND CS/DO AT 19RD - DD)

CS/RF

OOPEA PEO.

INDEXED AND CONTROL COPIES

SECRET 162128Z

PRIORITY DIR INFO PACE LANT BARR CITE

WAVE 7272

INTEL TYPIC

a1-7:

16 NOV 65 238882 IN 95954

(INGHURST ACTING)

5 88

UEE 1724

SUPDATA: PARAS 3. AND 4 AMDECK-I ON 15 AND 16 NOVAS ERAS SAND I

AMTOBY-13 FROM FRANCISCO ILLAS, MEMBER COMANDOS L AND 15 YÉAR

FRIEND OF A-13: ON 16 NOV. PARAS 9 AND IS ARTABBY-27 ON 15 NOV.

PARA 12 AMOT-84 FROM AMTAUP-2 ON 15 NOV. FIELD COMMENT PARA 13;

WAVE FILES, COAST GUARD, BORDER PATROL E

SEE ALSO WAVE 7218(IN 93799)

RID INDEX CUESTA, ARRAZOLA. FILED 162128Z

REPORT CLASS CONFIDENTIAL CONTROLLED DISSEM NO FOREIGN DISSEM.

CUBA

SUBJ: IDENTIFICATION OF SOME INDIVIDUALS AND VESSEL'S WHICH MAY

HAVE PARTICIPATED IN THE EARLY MORNING 14 NOVEMBER 1965 EMIGRE RAID

IW COMMENTE

WHEELIED

DEC 1 8 1355

DOC. MICRO. SER.

D19. 4-95/11

8

RELEASING I

03

DATE DISTRIBUTED,

17 NOVEMBER 1965

0227265

SECRET.

19-300-18

IGNORES

TDCS D8-315/03727-65

TROUTINE •

IX, PRIORITY

BASED ON: UFG 7724

N/P (AMTOBY/13) (AMTABBY/27)

(AMOT/84) (AMTAUP/2)

LIAISON: *

(AMDECK-1)

RACLUDED FROM

AUTOMATIC

DICLASSIPICATION

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy No.

RETURN TO ClA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

---

## Page 2

ta-intdnh

INDEX O VES D NO :

CLASSIPY YO PILE NO -

X RESTO FIENO

FROM.

ACTION:

INFO

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

PILE HID D

AET TO BRANCH D

DESTaOr D sIo

MIG. RAY

ROUTING

5

XI RID COPY

VR,.. FILE, ADDP, CA 2, CA/PEG. CA/PROP, CI OPS, C1/IC2, FL M/D :: F1/INT

PAGE 2 IN: 95954

ON HAVANA CITY:

001: 14 NOV. 65. PADA: : UNITED STATES, MIAMI (15 AND 16 NOV 65)

UFG-7724

SOURCE:: SEE PARAS 2, 5, 8 AND 11 BELOW.

IW COMMENT.

TDCS

ROUTINE

BASED ON

PRIORITY

RELEASING IWO,

DATE DISTRIBUTED:

SECR'ET

LIAISON:

CHOUP !

RACLUDED

AUTOHATI

DOWPGRROING

ORCLASBIRIGATION

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy Noi

---

## Page 3

19.89

3000

LUNANINE

it has i neit lat

CONFIDENTIAL

COUNTRY: CUBA

DATE OF

INFO.

NO FOREIGN DISSEM CONTROLLED DISSON

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

Intelligence Information Cable

@ PRIORITY

TDCS: D3-315/03727-65

DISTR 16 NOVEMBER 1965

14 NOVEMBER 1965

- SUBJECT

IDENTIFICATION OF SOME INDIVIDUALS AND VESSELS WHICH MAY

•: HAVE PARTICIPATED IN THE EARLY MORNING 14 NOVEMBER EMIGRE

RAID ON HAVANA CITY H

PLACE &

•DATE ACO. UNITED STATES, MIAMI (15-16 NOVEMBER 1965)

REF

N 95954

FIELD REPORT NO. UFG. 7724

SOURCE

AND

APPRAISAL SEE PARAS 2, 5, 8 AND 1I BELON.

.l. (FIELD COMMENT: DURING THE MORNING OF 14 NOVEMBER. 1965, FIDEL

CASTRO RUZ MADE A RADIO ADDRESS IN WHICH HE ACCUSED AGENCIES OF THE

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT WITH CARRYING OUT A RAID EARLIER THAT

MORNING AGAINST SEVERAL TARGETS IN THE ARÇA OF MIRAMAR, HAVANA CITY.

INCLUDING THE RESIDENCE OF OSVALDO DORTICOS TORRADO. ON 14 NOVEMBER

THE 11:DS P.M. NEWS BROADCAST CN CHANNEL 7 IN MIAMI MENTIONED A

STATEMENT BY JORGE MAS CANOSE, SFOKESMAN FOR RECE, IN WHICH MAS

ADMITTED RECE PARTICIPATICN IN THE RAID. THE MIAMI HERALD OF 15

NOVEMBER CONTAINED AN ITEM INDICATING THAT MAS HAD STATED THE RAID

prohibited by law.

N8 FOREIGA DISSEM/CONTROLLED OLSSEM

CONFIDENTIAL

STATEJINR. DLA: ARMY/ACSI NAVS AIR DES SECDER NSA NIC •AID USIA OCI ONE OCR

ORR

ALA/ NUCC.. FBI. ISS

CREST SNARD. BORDER PATROL, CUSTOMS TREASURY

CaduT

Ensludand tro

EXO

---

## Page 4

JUNO 440 (88)

NO FORCIEN DISSEM COMTROLLED DISSEM

IN

ToeS D8-315/03727-45AGE

CONFIDENTIAL

N 95954

HAD BEEN ACCOMPLISHED WITH

THE ASSISTANCE OF MEMBERS OF CORANDOS Li

AND THE FRANK PAIS MOVEMENT.

2. SOURCE FOR PARAS 3 AND 4: A CUBAN EXILE WITH GOOD ACCESS TO

ACTIVITIES OF EMIGRE ACTIVISTS GROUPS. HIS REPORTING ON RAIDER

ACTIVITIES HAS BEEN GENERALLY RELIABLE SINCE 1962.

Cit cubi

3=: DURING THE EVENING OF 14 NOVEMBER 1965 ANTONIO GUEST DEL

VALLE, MILITARY LEADER OF CONANDOS Le VISITED AÑ INDIVIOUAL WHO HAD

PREYIOUSLY GIVEN HIM FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE AND STATED THAT COMANDOS L

HAD BEEN RESPONSIBLE FOR CARRYING OUT THE RAID ON THE RESIDENCE OF

OSVALDO DORTICOS

3 TORRADA IN THE MIRAMAR SECTION OF HAVANA CITY

DURING THE EARLY MORNING HOURS OF 14 NOVEMBER. (FIELD COMMENT: THERE

"HAVE BEEN PREVIOUS REPORTS FROM THIS SAME SOURCE, AS WELL AS OTHERS,

THAT COMANDOS L WAS PLANNING A RAID AGAINST A TARGET IN CUBA.: COMANDOS

L WAS GOING TO UTILIZE THE "ANGELINA" AS A MOTHER VESSEL, ACCORDING

TO CUESTA THE PURPOSE OF THIS RAID WAS TO DISRUPT THE MOVEMENT OF

REFUGEES FROM CUBA TO THE UNITED STATES THROUGH CAMARIOCA, MATANZAS

PROVINCE,.. AS THIS, TO HIM, WAS AN INDICATION THAT THE UNITED STATES

WAS MOVING TOWARD A POLICY OF COEXISTANCE WITH FIDEL CASTRO.)

4. AS OF 16 NOVEMBER IT HAD BEEN DETERMINED THAT THE "ANGELINA"

•WAS NOT INVOLVED IN THE 14 NOVEMBER RAID, BUT THAT POSSIBLY THREE.

VESSELS HAD PARTICIPATED IN THIS RAID. ONE OF THESE VESSELS WHICH

WAS BACK IN THE MIAMI AREA ON 16 NOVEMBER WAS THE "BAKU" A 23 TO 25-

FOÖT LONG VESSEL POWERED BY TWIN CRYSLER V-8 ENGINES WITH POWER IN

EXCESS OF 288 HORSEPOWER.

CONFIDENTIAL

NO FIREFER DISSON EOATROLLE AISSCH

---

## Page 5

IN 95954

TO FOREIGN DISTO ATROLED DISSON IN

TDES 315/03727-65 PAGE 3

CONFIDENTIAL

SOURCE FOR PARAS 6 AND 7: A FROMINENT EMIGRE ACTIVIST WHO WAS

FORMERLY A HAVANA YACHISMAN.. HE IS A PROMINENT FIGURE ON EMIGRE

ACTIVISTS AFFAIRS. SOURCE'S REPORTING ON LOCAL CUSAN EMIGRE AFFAIRS

HAS BEEN GENERALLY RELIABLE.. THIS INFORMATION WAS OBTAINED FROM

A CLOSE FRIEND OF LONG STANDING. WHO: IS ALSO A MEMBER OF COMANDOS. L.

6. THE "ANGELINA" WAS DEFINITELY NOT INVOLVED IN THE 14 NOVEMBER

RAID ON HAVANA.

THE RAID WAS CARRIED OUT BY TWO VESSELS WHICH DEPARTED :

FROM THE MIAMI AREA AT AN UNDETERMINED DATE, AND WHICH HAD RETUPNED

TO THE MIAMI AREA AS OF 16. NOVEMBER. CNE OF THE VESSELS WAS A 22

FOOTER POWERED SY TWIN ZIE HORSEPOWER CRYSLER ENGINES, AND HAD

ABOARD HER CUESTA AS ONE OF HER CREW. THE OTHER: VESSEL BELONGED TO

RECE.: THE WEAPONS CARRIED BY THE STRIKE BOATS INCLUDED Z@-MM

CANVEN AND 58 CALIBERE MACHINEGUNS ALL OF FINNISH MANUFACTURE, AND

SOME FAL RIFLES.

7° THE PRIMARY PLAN FOR THIS RAID ORIGINATED SOMETIME IN AUCUST.

1965 AND PROVIDED THAT ONE VESSEL WOULD ATTACK THE 18TH PRECINCT

/

FOLICE STATION AND THE HOTEL NACIONAL IN HAVANA AND THE SECOND BOAT

WOLLO ATTACK THE RESIDENCE OF OSVALDO DORTICOS TORRADO. (SOURCE

CONTENT: THERE WERE ASPAPENTLY SOME CHANGES IN THIS PRIMARY PLAN,

HENCER THE REASONS FOR THIS CHANGE ARE NOT KNOWN.)

8. SOURCE OF PARAS. 9 AND 1D: A CUSHN REFUGEE WHO IS ASSOCIATED

WITH ACTIVISTS IN THE MIAMI AREA. SOURCE IS REGARDED AS RELIABLE

AND PREVIOUS REPORTING FROM HIM HAS PROVED TO BE ACCURATE.

9.. DURING THE MORNING

3, OF 15 NOVEMBER A MEMBER OF COMANDOS L

CONFIDENTIAL

FUREGN DISSEM/CONTROLED ONSE

---

## Page 6

IN PRIEN DISSON

то 6d0 100

IN

tras: +8-315/03727-65aGas 4

CONFIDENTIAL

IN 95954

STATED THAT. COMANDOS L HAD ATTACKED THE COAST OF CUST USING A PLAN

WHICH HAD ORIGINALLY BEEN PREPARED IN MAY 1965. (FIELD COMMENT: CF.

TDCSDB 315/81665-65, 15 MAY 1965) UNDER THE PROVISIONS OF THIS.

ORIGINAL ATTACK PLAN COMANDOS L WAS TO USE ONE SEABIRO MODEL

VESSEL WHICH WAS TO BE THE STRIKE BOAT ARMED WITH A 30 CALISER LIGHT.

MACHINE GUN AND ONE EIGHT-SHOT ZB-NM CANNON. THE STRIKE BOAT. WAS

TO BE ACCOMPANIED BY A MOTHER VESSEL WHICH WAS BERTHED AT POMPANO

SEACH, FLORIDA.

IO. ACCORDING TO THE MEMBER OF COMANDOS L THE STRIKE BOAT ON 14

NOVEMBER APPROACHED TO WITHIN 6843 YARDS OF THE SHORE AND FIRED BOTH A:

50 CALIBER MACHINE GUN AND 2E MM RECOILESS RIFLE. THE MEMSER EXPLAINED

THAT IT WAS NECESSARY TO REMAIN AT THIS DISTANCE FROM: SHORE BECAUSE

OF A CUBAN 58 CALIBER MACHING GUN EMPLACEMENT ON SHORE CF WHICH THE

RAIDING PARTY HAD PREVIOUS KNOWLEDGE. BECAUSE OF THE LING RANGE

INVOLVED THE FIRE FROM THE RAIDING VESSEL WAS NOT AS EFFECTIVE AS IT

MICHT: HAVE BEEN. ONE OF THE MEN WHO MIGHT HAVE BEEN ÓN THE STRIKE

VESSEL WAS POSSIÉLY ORLANDO FARRAZOLA RODRIGUEZ, A CONANDCS L. MEMBER

WiO WAS STILL NOT. AT HOME DURING THE MORNING OF 15 NOVENGER

11• SOURCE FOR PARA 12: A MEMBER OF A GROUP OF CUBIN EMIGRES

TRÄINED IN: THE TECHNIQUES OF INFORMATION COLLECTION. THIS GROUP

HAS FROVIDED USEFUL REPORTS SINCE 1961.

12. GN 14 NOVEMBER JORGE MAS CANOSA, CNE OF THE LEADERS OF THE

REPRESENTACION CUSANO EN EL EXILIO. (RECE, CUBAN REPRESENTATION IN

FYILE) STATED AT THE RECE OFFICES, 1784 WEST FLAGLER STREET, MIAMI,

CONFIDENTI

---

## Page 7

iN PINCH DOSEN TROLLO DISSE IN

ToEs 03-315/03727-6PAGE 5:

CONFIDENTIAL

IN 95954

THAT THIS ATIACK WHICH WAS CARRIED OUT SY RECE AND MCMBERS CE OTHER

¿MIGNE GROUPS WAS TIMED SO AS TO HAVE ITS FULLEST EFFECT CN THOSE

ATTENDING THE ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES MEETING IN RIO DE

JANEIRO, BRAZIL, SY SHOWING THOSE ATTENDING THE MECTING AS WELL AS

ALL THE PEOPLE OF AMERICA, THAT RECE INTENDS TO MAINTAIN A MILITANT

• ATTITUDE TOWARD THE CASTRO REGIME, AND IS STRONGLY OPFOSED TO THE

APPARENT MOVE TO COEXISTENCE BETWEEN. THE UNITER STATES AND THE CASTRO

REGIME AS CXEMPLIFIED. SY THE RECENT NEGOTIATIONS GIVEN RISE TO THE

REFUGEE EXCOUS THROUGH CAMARIOCA

13. FIELD COMMENT: OTHER THAN THE STATEMENT BY MAS THERE IS;

NO INFORMATICN WHICH INDICATES FARTICIPATION SY THE FRANK PAIS

: MOVEMENT IN THE 14 NOVEMBER RAID ON HAVANA. HOWEVER AROTHER

GONCRNVENT AGENCY WHICH HAS LAW ENFORCEMENT DUTIES REPORTED THAT

ONE GE THE VESSELS INVOLVED IN THE RAID MAY HAVE BECH THE "WICHE"

FLOHIDA RECISTRATION FL SSON E, WHICH AS OF 20 JUNE 1965 VAS REGISTERED

10 ALGERIC SANCHEZ, 185 NW IS COURT, MIAMI. THIS VESSEL IS A 23-FCOT

INDIARD-CUTSOARD SEABIRD VESSEL WHICH WAS FURCHASED IN JUNE.

ACCORDING TO AVAILABLE RESOROS IN 19E3 ALBERTO SANCHEZ LES' IDENISFICO

AS & METOCR CE THE, FOREIGN RELATIONS CONTICE CE THE 36 NOVEMSER

ARCIE, * AROUN ORGANIZED IN HONOR OF FRANK PALSO DURINA THE COURSE

OF VARIOUS SCHISIS ONE OF THE SPLINTER GROUPS EF THE 38 NGUDES

MOVEMENT DEVELOPED INTO THE FRANK FAIS MOVEMENT. THE PRESENT

SPECIFIE STATUS OF THE FRANK PAIS MOVEMENT VIS A VIS THE 38 NOVEMBER

SM"• YAS NOT SEEN DETERMINED.

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 8

што ва 10.

M PRESEI POSTI CONTRRLLED BEST IN

Tris00-55/03727-6PAGE

CONFIDENTIAL

IN 35954

MA FILLO DISSENS GENGLANE GUEREO, COMAESTROR, ALAND REPS

CE CUSTONS, FEI, COAST GUARD, STATE, LINS,

E, PROSE PATROL, US ARMY

FIELD AFFRAISAL, DETACHMENT 1O

END OF MESSAGE

CONFIDENTIAL

---

