# 104-10218-10046

## Page 1

104-10218-10046

HOUSE SELECT COMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF NEW:ES

FILE TITLE /NIER/VOL: KDACETUNE (LIHUFF) (1 Vol)

Support

50-134-18/3

INCLUSIVE DATES: A Apí 1963 - 28 Oct 1921

CUSTODIAL. UNIT/LOCATIOY:

POs: 2011

DELETIONS, IF'AVY:

None

TATE

TATT

RECEIVED RETURNED

REVIEWED BY

(PRINT NATE

SUGNATURE OF

REVIEWING CFFICIA!.

NOT REVIEWED BY HSCA

FOCUNRES MAY BE COrTERRE RIMONED FRON THIS FILI.

SCONT

109d

RETUENT TO RECORDS C

MATERIAL FIRED IN THIS TOLE

IS IN CHRONOLOGICAL, ONL

KDACETONE

50-124-28/2

" LIHUFF SUPPORT

50-124-28/2

---

## Page 2

14-00000

1 11m 171 12 00 1 00.

CONFIDENTIAL

NOTICE

-.-

:

THIS FILE HAS BEEN PROCESSED AND RETIRED. DO NOT

ADD ANY DOCUMENTS TO THIS FOLDER. FORWARD CS

DOCUMENTS THAT SHOULD BE INCLUDED IN THIS FOLDER

TO IP /RPU GE-58.

NOTICE

CONFIDENTIAL

....

foRE 2593

17-13)

......

- А им.

---

## Page 3

14-00000

SECRET

(WHEN FILED DN)

•ROM: (Heodquarters componeni)

WH/1 Mexico

TO

SUBJECT AND PROJECT FILE REQUEST

AND FIELD NOTIFICATION OF ACTION

IP/AN

TO : (Station/Bose)

FROM: (Division)

Chief of Station, Mexico City

Chief, Western Hemisphere Division

INFORMATION FOR REQUESTERS

COMPLETE ITEMS I THROUGH 12.

ITEM 10- ENTER OLD TITLE WHEN AMENDING A TITLE, CITE

ANY FILES, SUCH AS 201 OR PROJECT FILES THAT ARE RE.

ITEM 3 ALL FILE

TITLES MUST BE STERILE SINCE THEY WILL

APPEAR ON THE FIELD COPIES AND ON MACHINE LISTS

LATED TO THE FILE COVERED BY THIS REQUEST ITEM 1O MAY

ALSO BE USED TO GIVE REASONS FOR THE ACTION BEING RE•

ITEM E- ALL REMARKS MUST BE STERILE.

QUESTED. TO IDENTIFY THE TYPE OF MATERIAL TO BE PLACED

IN A FILE OR TO MAKE OTHER EXPLANATORY REMARKS

ITEM 7 AND B-USE FIRST THREE LETTERS OF DISPATCH SYM.

STATIONS

AND LIST HEADQUARTERS ELE-

ITEM 11 - A RECORDS OFFICER MUST SIGN ALL FILE ACTION RE•

MENTS ACCORDING TO ESTABLISHED NUMERIC CODES

QUESTS CONSULT YOUR RHO ON ANY PROBLEMS THAT ARISE.

INFORMATION CONCERNING FILE

TYPE OF FILE

•QUE IFILE NUMBE

COUNTRY NUMBER

ATEGORY NUMBE

SUBJECT

PROJECT

50

124

ISPECIFIC SURJECT NUMBER

28/2

3. FILE TITLE (SPECIFIC SUBJECT) (PROJECTS LIMITED TO 15 SPACES!

KDACETONE

ANALYSIS ACTION

OPEN FILE

X CLOSE FILE INDICATE DISPOSITIONI

AMEND FILE TITLE

GEOPEN

6. REMARKS (FOR FIELD DISTRIBUTION)

ACTION REQUIRED

5.

RETAIN

DISPOSITION

TDESTRUCTION RECOMMENDED

THRU DATE!

7. INTERESTED STATIONS (PROJECTS ONLY,

TE INTERESTED HEADOUARTERS DESK LIST ACTION DESK FIRSTI

HMM

50

9.

FILES ACTION

[CHARGE PERMANENTLY TO

OFFICER & DESKI

10L0 B

CS FILE

RESTRICTED

UNRESTRICTED

REPARE FOLDER AN

END TO REQUESTE

T0. COMMENTS INCLUDE SPECIAL HEADQUARTERS ROUTING INSTRUCTIONSI

ENDORSEMENT

FrECTIVE DATE

28 ocl 71

FORM

82-83

DESOLETE PREVIOUS

812

G. 2-€

12.

•CORDINATION

50

SECRET

CODE

124

....

RIO APPROVAL

REQUEST APPROVED BY

38 |

28/2

I-S COPY

---

## Page 4

.S-E-C=R-E-T.

DATE CE CRYPTONIM CHANGE - 2ÖSO4171

KDACETONE

FORMER CRYPTÖVIM - LIHUFF

CRYPTONY! CHANGE AUTHORIZED BY

COMPONENT - RID/AN

IRO OR RID SECTION CHIEFI

- GiDLE OR DOCLHENT REFERENCE (FROM ITEM IO OF FORM 8121

=_HUMS=7138

N-D-T-I-C-E

......

THIS IS AN RID NOTICE CF A CHANGE IN FILE

•____ TITLE CRYPTONYM CAUSEO BY COMPROMISE. IT

.. .. ..... ...

IS TO BE PLACED

IN THE FILE INDICATED AND

TO REMAIN THEREIN'ÄS" A PERMANENT DRTICINL

CS RECORD.

. S-E-C-R-E-T

FILE IN - 050-124-028102

---

## Page 5

SECHET

Ciricia Station, 'axico cite

%

NO PICIO BANDID

ONLY DUANED LISK

CAN FUSA BEELING

CHief. NOGANE

SUBTLET

LINUFF /1.

Social Security Benefits

REFS:

i.

ICT 10, 210

B. Dook Dispalch 6900, 11 :larcn 1969

I'mile undar contract to UNLitiCE from 1958 to February, 1970, LINUFF/1

accurulated mino croditable quartors unir the Social Socurity f. dinistration (SSA)

accuculated under trus nano but have not get been trans-

ferred to S5A.

Ona quarter crodited under alias is already posted in the SSa.por

With Station approval, Heducuarters intonds to transfer the cignt quarters

accumulated under true nara to so and have sieutarcously the one duarter dictalias

merged into the true nade account trough the intercession of a cleard 55A contact.

tolue would be identified as Lilure/l's a ployer for all nine quarters,

SSA account will not sion any uklaice interest or conncction.

The advantane of

this procodure is that efter all creditable servico and contributions nove been

recorded in SeA, LIlUFF/l can correspond directly with ssi on any questions lie may have

as to ino arounts ne is entitled

jKLAiCE will ba cut out excuse if LItUFF/T

siould nave any quastions on the arount of credit he earned during his UNLANCE service.

In this case, he rould hava to contact tie Station for forvarding nis questions to

Head uartors and resolution with appropriate SSA contacts.

2. Following Station action is therefore required:

a. Hocity lisadquarters that no objection exists to the transfer

Caslinclin para l above;

b. Brief LilFs/l Chat

his SSA credits are being transferred to SSA for

ricording bu: that their posting nay take as long

six ronths boccuse of routine posting backlog in SSA;

(2) he should therafore not expect a consolidation of all of his

SSA credits until

about the cad of calendar ycar 1970

and should rot begin correspondence with SSA until

(3) sinca dia had carned SSi credits prior to his

UNLACE, his epouse should ta made duare of his/and/or her

general SSa enticlerants without any reference to the

credits accrued curing his UNLANCE service;

(4) after 31 Ducerbar 1970, he ray oddress any questions concera-

ing SSA credito and entitlenchis to:

CROSS RETERENCE TO

DISFAIGI STRESS AND NUMBER

1T: A1.5 - 1413

DATE

(coirt)

15 JUL 1970

HOS FILE HUWEER

INTERNAL DISTRIBUTION

- CCS/CTS

- WH/FaRSCeN

- WH/1

CPB

COS/DFB

1 - CCS/DFB

GIFILE

CCS/OFB

THE CE SINGOL

CCS/CTS

WH/ REAS

CPD

GRECES: 351

EXT.

COORDIMATING

6804:

CAtE

CATE

13/2/2

53

USE PREVIOUS COITIO'8.

DIORATCH

---

## Page 6

1d-0d0d

DISPATCH

HE1d - 17972

(5)

Social Security Idsinistration

balticore, darylans 21203

Suca corrispondunce rust, of course, dare no ruference to diLf icE.

le should contact the Station if he has iny quaction pertainion t

he SSA credits de earned anile under contract to JiLAiCE

bistribution:

vriy and 1 - COS, lexico City

--..-

GLASSIFICATION

PRECIO

5-99

5.om9

530

USE PREOUS EDITION.

Lovindira

---

## Page 7

DISPATCH

FEUCESSING ACTION

SECRET

MAENED FOR DIDEXTEC

RAR-O.

Chlef of Station.

Chief, kH Division

FROM

Chief of Station. Mexico CIty

SUBECT

MHSPAWN/LIHUFF/Request of Assistance

to Obtain Microfilm Coples of Spanish Documents

ACTION REQUIRED - RIFEKENCLS

DEO INDEXING REONKED

CALY QUALIED DESK

CAN JULGE DIDENING

MICROFILM

Action Required: As Stated

An old and proven contact of COS Mexico, L HUFF, has

requested assistance to obtain for research purposes microfile

coples of the historical Spanish documents contalned in the

"Examen Histórico de la Reforma Constitucional que

Hicleron las Cortes Generales y Extraordinarlas"

(Londres,

1935), by Agustin ARGUELLES.

"Apuntes Sobre el Arreglo de los Vocales de Cortes

o putado...® (Madrid, 1820

Escritos en la Carcel por el

* (Madrid, 1820), by Joaquin Lorenzo VILLANUEVA.

C. "Expediente del Proceso a los Dipurados Presos en

1814 en el Archivo de

las Cortes Españolas."

Archivo

reservado dol Congreso de los Diputados.

Tomo Xil.

Marico City Station would appreclate any assistance the

Station can render to obtain the above mentloned microfilm

coples.

for Willard G. CURTIS

Distributions

2 - cos.

-/WHD

CROSS REFERSICE TO

and ..

CS COPY

DISPATCH SYNAGO, AND NEARER

HMMA -37 154

CASINATiON

SECRET

DATE

15 May 1969

1 50-124-2812

und.

---

## Page 8

1d-0n0d

DISPATCH

dUSTICATIO

SOCIET

PROCESIRE ACTION

MARKED fOR BOXING

NO MOLEING EQUIRCO

OMIT QUIIFED DESK

CAN JUDGE RADERING

MICROFES

FROM

Chief, i Diviadon

Chiof of Station, Mexico City

SUBACT

ADRIA/ JACEUT

LINE - 1901 T0c0T Jar Return

ACTION BLOUIRED - REFRINCES

Aotlon Requirod: FTI

Peference:

Hone

: 04

Porvardad as a separate cover attachant la a troe copy of the 1067

title

U.S. Individual Incoma Tax Heturn for Subjout.

Wi lard 6. Curtle

Attachment: 1987 Ircora Tar Feturn, U.Soto

Distribution:

rigE 1- Chief inal, watt u.S.C

2 - Chief kH Div, W/o att

CROSS REFERSACE 10

DISPATOR STARDI AND MISSER

104X2-0163

GASSAHCATON

SECRET

CUREND - DO 102 SENOVE

DATE

27 tune 1908

MOS FRE NUMBER

50-1-1/8

---

## Page 9

TO

DISPATCH

Chief, Whi Division

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

xx

PROCESSING ACTION

MARXED FOR MISERiNG

BO INDEN SE PEQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED DESA

ICAM JUDGE INDEX IN

MICROFILM

FROM

Chief of Station, Mexico City

SUBJECT

Agent Evaluation - LIHUFF/I Of LIHUFF Project

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

by millard a cached on coples or a enur luaten written

2. This is forwarded for Headquarters information and

records.

-

Willard C. CURTIS

ittachment:

Agent Evaluation 13 cys

= inter to atsmatic

• 1.21691

Distribution:

3 - C/WH, wlat

CROSS REFERENCE TO

OISPATCH SYUBOL ARO NUMBER

HMMA - 32878

GCLASSIFICATION

SECRET

50-124-28

DATE

LIHUFE/SUP.

29 August 1967

HOS FILE NUMBER

201-30999

---

## Page 10

SECRET

AGENT EVALUATION

24 August 1967

1. Nane (P): LIHUFF/8

2. Project & LIHUFF

3. Overt Job Title: Manager of Large Association.

4. Covert Job Title: Contract Agent.

i Job Description & LIHUFF/l-Is a contract agent who Is

in touch with and reports on a right wing student

organization and Its activitles. He also reports

on a Mexican organization which sponsors the

publication of a right wing economics (monthly)

Journal: he has contact with a sub-agent (LICHANT/

who is employed by both the Ministry of Education

and

the Mexican

Soclal Securlty Institute.

addition, he is able by virtue of his overt

employment, to get Dun and Bradstreet credit and

other checks on

business firms. American,

Mexican and others.

is In contact with other

right wing organizations and Indlviduals and has

lood contacts with Catholic Church authoritles

in MeXiCO.

6. Evaluations

a Performance of Above Duties without Prejudice to

Elther One.

only part-

excellent cover for the work he doas for woract.

bo Attitude towards WOFACT, Cover Organization and

Present Assignment.

LIHUFF/ Is a great admirer of WOFACT. He Is

anx lous

to do any asslanment given him: he ls

grateful for the extra income (although small)

which the WOFACT job gives him.. He Is very

leased with his present assignment, loves workin

or his cover organ zation.

C .

Security and Discretion.

LIHUFF/I has had years of work of the WOFACT

cape i, in chinas has been

Ho did the same type of work during world

assoclated: with WOFACT

under unfeel ever one contrace status

Jand In Mexico.

He Is very security=

consclous and discreet

about his assoclation with

WOFACT and about his work with this organization.

SEGRET

UHUFF/SUP

---

## Page 11

.....

SECRET

do Handling.

LIHUFF/ has presented

no problems to the Station.

le accepts guldance and Instructlons, is anxious te

do whatever Is asked of him. He takes about one

hour weekly to handle.

Thore have been no excessive

administrative demands generated by this agent.

Report Writing.

LIHUFF/I generally submits reports which he has

acquired fron elther LIHUFF/2 or LICHANT/18 0r,

he writes brlef memorande on data he belleves of

Interest.

he makes coples of the dun & Gradstreet

reports or simllar ones he delivers to the Station.

His reporting is good, thorough, but brief and to

the point.

f. Personal Attributes.

tlos in Mexicos he Is very well Ilked and respected

all typest

Mexican Businessmens and he gets along wall with

His family plays no role in his WOFACT

aceivlties.

8. Performance in Mis Specifie Job.

LIHUFF/I porforms woll In his speelfle Job. He

gives the station no probleas, elther administra

tively or otherise. Mis performance could be

rated as Strong.

h. Noteworthy Weaknesses.

This agent has no noteworthy weaknesses. In vie

lo Career Developmental Possibilitles.

This agent could adjust well in any Spanish-

speaking country.

J. Comments Not Covered by Above Headings None.

Signature of Rating Officer

eard (Custo

Tard Go CURTT:

Signature of Revlewing Officer

Arcane Casti

SECRET

1316631

arounds ride

sanitatitan.

---

## Page 12

DISPATCH

CLASS, CATION

_SECRET

Chief. L'OGAlE

aFaL

Chief. VH Division

Chief of Station. Mexico City

SUBJECT

JECENT/LIHUFF/1 - 1966 Tax Return

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

Reference:

A.

HHMS-5094,

16 Dec

66

HISMT -5750, 9 Feb 67

BARRED I OR IDEANO

GO INDEXING RECUURED

CELY CURLIFIED LES

CAH JUOGE INDERING

MICROFILN

Forwarded unde

956 (overtly submitted, separatecome fax Retuerax copy of Subject".

2. This is being submitted in response to Reference A.

Willard 6. CURTIS

Attachment:

(u/s/c)

1966 Tax Return

Distribution:

2 - C/WOGATE, w/ate (8 cy)

t'= G/WH, w/o att

6.008000a.33

CROSS REFERENCE TO

DISPATCH SYHOOL AND BUMBER

HMMT- 8008

CLASS,FICATION

SECRET

7751"1|

DATE

22 June 1967 •

ROS FILE NUMBER

«TWO D

---

## Page 13

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

NFO.

Chlef of Station, Mexico City

FROM

Chief, Wi Division

SUBJECT

O LIFE Studert Substay

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

References:

A. WWW 14500,

18 Ajr1l 1966, Paragraph 4

B.

IRSiA 28835, 4 lay 1966, Paragraph 3

с. НУТ 6507, 3 May 1966

HIT 7147, 13 September 1966

B. IMT 7197, 4 October 1966

FPOCESSING ACHIO!

MADRED FOR MIDERIO

INS ROEXISO REQUIRED

ELY QUALIFIED DESE

CID LOGE MEDEXIO

ESCROF ELM

1. In response to Reference A, the Station notified Headquarters

In Reference B that the $500 monthly subsidy to the LIur student

creanization vould cease as of 30 April 1906.

leedguarters believed

chet the Apil subsloy payment reported in Reference o and cherred to

Project LIRANCH vas to be the last payment.

The post recent reneval requests for Projects LIHUFF and LILISP-X do

not contain provicions for this subsidy. Headquarters vas under the

Impression that the subsidy would not be continued and would appre-

Kenneth B. TRABOVT

Distribution:

2 - COS, Mexico City

CROSS REFEREICE TO

&S COPY

RI

Chrono

362

LEST

5025

Foes 53

USE PREVIGUE CONSON

I DISPATCH SYMBOL NEO MUMBER

Eat - 3031

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

OFFICE

WE/1

OFFICE SYMBOL

- =

191 S

OFFICE SYMBOL

OFFICER:

SODATE

TAED

1 из ун.0e

CATE

1201

• DATE

50-134-2812

28 NOV 1955

MOS FIL i Dovember 1966

50-124-28/3

ORIGINATING

TYPIST

[EXT.

3654

COORDINATING

OFFER'S NAISE

RELEASING

---

## Page 14

14-00000

SECRET

6 September 1966

MEMORANDUM POR: Chief, CCS

FROM

SULJECT

:

WH Division

: Project Funding Plan/Pro:ect

LIEUTE (PI)

A. Iuentification of Actlulty

1. Project cryptonya: LIHUrT

2. Approved for: 1 July 1965 - 30 June 1566:

$1, 200

FY 1967 - $4,200

3. Proposed successive flocal your budget: Same

4. Bered utatement os project ains, character and

The purpose of this project is to provide

support to a U. S. Contract Agent who has access

to night-wing political leaders and organizatione

in Mexico.

This agent is handled directly by

a Station Case Officer.

B. Funding Bistory

1. The Contract Agent recelves a monthly Balar,

of $300 plus his opcrational expenses directl

fros the Station Case Officer.

2. Funda have algays been handled in this manner.

-009

them a more i an one go out is

• :

---

## Page 15

1d-0d0d

TO

INFO.

FROM

DISPATCHI

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

PROCESSING ACTION

MARKED FOR INDEXING

Chief, WHD

xX

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED DES

AN JUDGE INDEXIN

Chief en station. Mexicacide Afirmacion Revolux maria (FCMAR)

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

REFERENCE: HMMA-24542, 20 October 1964

1.

In reference the Station Indicated that unless reference

Identity D

the

succeeded In galning

an

important ministerlal

post in

new Diaz Ordaz government, the beneflts to be derlved from

the Cecil B. ARLISS-reference Identity B contact (l.e.. a

continuing indirect connection with the frente Civico and

Incidentlal information reports) would not be of sufficient

value to warrant continuation of the contact.

To date, as far as the Station is aware, reference

Identity D has not been appointed to any Cabinet

lal position.

Further,

there Is no indication that former

President Aleman Intends to

reactivate the frente Civico into

a movement which would be of MHSPAWN interest at this juncture.

ARLISS has accordingly been instructed to phase out the

contact with

reterence Identity B and the Frente Civico upor

his return from his U.S. trip In January 1965.

Before lois

departure ARLISS gave reference Identity B an advance of 4000

pesos to cover the

two regular monthly payments of 2000 pesos

December 1964 and

proceed to close out the contact as expeditlously as

for

Willard G. CURTIS

Distribution:

• WHD

2 - Files

CROSS REFERENCE 10

1110F5

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

H4A-2503

ASSIFICATIO

SECREI

DATE

50-126-112

si tryi

---

## Page 16

14-00000

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATICN

SECRET

PROCESSING ACTION

MARKED FOR INDEXINO

10

Chief of Station, Mexico City

iNFO.

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED DESE

CAN JUDGE INDEXING

FROM

Chief, WH Divigion

MICROFILA

SUBJECT

LIHUFF Projcct

ACTION RFQUIRER - REFERENTES

REF:

DIR 96033

DIR 99160

The level and the scope of authorized charges to LILIßPY

for LIEUFF activities for the balance of FY64 were provided to you

In Ref B.

The Station should adhere rigidly to the limitations on

LIHUFF's salary and the support for student activities.

Should

you wish to support other specific projects under LIHUFF activity

such as the book to be published in Buenos Aires, your

recommendations in this respect will be considered by Headquorters

on a:rage to case basis.

As also Indicated in Ref B, Headquarterg has allocated an

additional $30,000 to Project LILISP-S for FY bringing the total

to $82500.

This additional allotment will have to be documented

and the Station is asked to submit its comments which can be used

in support of it.

3. The Station is also requested to submit to Headquarters,

not later than 1 June 1964.

nn up-dated assessment of the LIHUFF

operation.

If at that time the Station wishes to present a revised

project for fiscal ycar 1965, your recommendations should be

submitted with the reassessment.

If your recommendations are

accepted, Headquarters will then undertake to rewrite the project

outline forwarded with EMA-20931 and submit the Project for

approval.

Oliver G. GALBOND

CROSS REFERENCE TO

Distribution:

0&]-COS,

Mexico City

COPA

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

FANY 12379

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

OFFICE

WH/3/Mexico

Postribut Jon: Is

--F-RI

1 Chrono

OFFICE SYMBOL

DATE

50-184-3879

DATE

2 March 1964

HOS FILE NUMBER

50124-28/3

COORDINATING

EXT.

5940

OFFICER'S NASIE

WH3/REX

rea*

53

USE PREVIOUSFDITION

OFFICE SYMSOL

C/WHD

DATE

146:

RELEASING

OFFICERS SIGGUATURE

ICDATCH

indians iden

---

