104-10334-10088

Ta ES Ss G1 OPH : Plies

To: Barry Harrelson
Company: HRG
Phone: 30292
Fax: 703-243-8343

F. rom{ 7
Company: CIA at :

Phone: 703-874-3124. <-
Fax: ' 703-874-3208

Date: 23 January 1996
Pages including this 4
cover page:

| would appreciate your input ASAP. | just spoke with commen the National
Counter-Intelligence Center and this letter will be presented to 1 Feb 1996. Based
on a quick read, | think the Ictter is a good idea. .
Linda. :
22.)0) | Ghiw

Nole

cI MEG amenene Q with oo Crmantuct y
epee Abawerdiin, Medes

eee Qyerre us atdvine (inde cus AL

use wd fn PCL ¢ Cuppoel peckys !
Wi add shelewed — Cle ca Ae \nege O
Ap prrpe rr cle L. 22% Gee fe re x t AW WA hs |

diletuins ns Lmde will oleae WS.
iia.

aN


13-00000

= *,  DES-82-1599 Ell TRAINING Lutt TG S1?OTST4 s2uy

December 4, 1995S

Honorable Anthony Lake
Assistant to The fcesident for
National Security Affairs

The White House
Washington, D.C. 20500 :

Dear Mr. Lake: ee 3

No other ethic is as well-established and as
essential to the success of the intelligence community as
the procection of intelligence sources and methods ard the
Safeguarding of confidences. The effectiveness of the U.S.
Government’s intelligence and counterintelligence programs
is signiticantly attributable to the historical conmitmenc
by the agencies which conduct these activities to those
principles. Disclosure of the identacies of sources has
had and may be expected to have a profound effect upon the

- ability of the intelligence agencics to obtain the
confidential assistance of persons whose cooperation is
dependence upon assurance of continuing confidentiality.
Similarly, the disclosure of information about intelligence
sources and methods has caused and will predictably result
an the development of. countermeasures which will atfect the
ability of the United States to provide the, President with
simely and high-quality intelligence and detect and address
hostile intelligence activities directed against the
United States. 7 -

. Tae’ agencies represented hy the National Counter-
intelligence Policy Board unanimously share, and hereby
express, their concern that these fundamental principles could
be compromised by an inappropriate commitment te disclosure
by the Assassination Records Review Board (the Board) in

ics administration of the John F. Kennedy Assassination
Records Collection Act.of 1992 (the Act).

DRAET_LETTER 1O_ ANTHONY LAKE, NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCTL

a


%

et

Jute 3 Se Uns sunt
tated CRON FOU TRAINING UNIT To
. 4
DRAPT_ LETTER TO ANTHONY LAKE, NATIONAL SECORTTY COUNCTT

Monorable Anthony Lak=

To date, the xesponse by the intelligence agencies
te Board xequests for the release of documents has been 2
unprecedented. The Federal Bureau of Investigacion (FBI), for
examole, has released over 613,000 documents to the National
Archives and Records Administration and has requested that
disclosure be postponed with respect Co portions of only 4.37
percent of chose documents. The FRI has sought postponement
with respect to limited portions of that modest number of ~
records based upon expressed concezn by foreign governments
which contributed or originated the inlormation and reluctance
to reveal the identities of inrelligence assets or inetatligence
sources and methods. oh 3

The Act pexmits the postponement of disciosure upon
presentation of clear and convincing evidence that the threat
to the military defense, intelligence operations, or roresgn
relations of the United States posed by pi lic disclosure
outweighs the public interest in disclosure and that such
Gisclosure would reveal:

(A) an intelligence agent whose identity currently
requires protection; or

(8) an intelligence source or method which is
currently utilized. or veasonably expected ta be
utilized, by the United States Goverment and which
has not been officially disclosed, the disclosures or
which would interfere with the conduct of intelligence
activities.

(See Act, Sections 6(i) (A,B))

The Acct further permits the postponement or
@isclosure upon a showing, by clear and convincing evidence,
that public disclosure would compromise the existence of an i
understanding of confidentiality currently requiring protection
between a government agent and a cooperating individual or a
foreign government, and public disclosure would be so hazaful
that it outweighs the public interest. (See Act, Section 6(4))

patos Suc?

DRAPT_LETTER TO ANTHONY LAKE. NATIONAL SECORTTY COUNCTT,



13-00000

cae

« JANES "4G OL SSR
W118 tag Seon

Te $1 7228743208

© i

DRALT_LEITER TO ANTHONY LAKE, NATIONAL SHCURTTY COUNCIL

Honorable Anthony Lake

The Board‘s rejection of postponements proposed -
under these Sections of the Act dismisses the fact that the
intelligence agencies are uniquely qualified to assess the harm
to intelligence operations which would result from disclosure
of the identities of intelligence assets or revelations about
intelligence souxces and methods. it remains essential thac
the U.S. government stand by assurances. to persons and fareign ©
governments that information they provide on the basis of those
assurances will remain confidential for as long as is necessary
to protect those persons or govermments. [It is similarly
essential that sources, methods, and techniques which have
bad value in the past and could be expecced to have valug in
the future not be compromised. ‘fo requirs disclosure of the
identities of intelligence assets or revelation of sources .’
and methods, including the confidential cooperation of
foreign governments, would enervate U.S. intelligence and
counterintelligeance programs and discourage the confidential
cooperation on which the successful conduct of effective
intelligence is dependent. The intelligence community believes
that the harm which would result from such disclosures would
demonstrably impair the national security of the United States
and that the clear and convincing evidence standard doses acct
require that it divine, with absolure precision, the specific
manner in which that harm will arise.

The National Counterintellagence Policy Beard
xespectfully requests, thercfore, that these concerns be
brought to the attention of the Board and that the position
of the intelligence conmunity with respect to the disclosure
of intelligence asset identities and intelligence sources and
methods be considered in any Subsequent review of final
determinations by the Board.

Respectfully yours,

Nora Slatkin, Chairperson
National Counterintelligence
Policy Board

« Jn

DRAYT LETTER TO ANTHONY LAKE, NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL

Tea

