r04-10462-10042

|
|
|
|

Meee Fea eee ee

DEFERRED TELEPOUCH

a eeremcanersereatcose
78 0355300
e SHINGT 177201

BECRET . i
DEFERRED TELEPOUCHK iin WASHINGTON 177201

TOs

FROM: SE/X/LA INFOS SEYQR/X, LA/CPB
SUBJECTS WNINTEL CKTOP Boourck PDGRAVE
REFS: A

7860 0311385
au CoS @
7861 NO COS &

eee ae ty 2, AND 3 ONLY OF DERECTOR 0506177
MAY ot  paSSED zp eae

See ny oas1026 te rhe ante, i
oe BE consioeneD || TNF,

[HE fr INFO IN DIRECTOR 0877900 MAY BE PASSED TO
uiatsds,

fe FILEL 20100822006, 201-0230701, 201208 2 POET.»
oniGn *SEPEHEA ee onahs cuORDE C/SEARALR Peel SESORIE
277? LAsCPB/P REL C/LACPB REID Cu BY 029353,



78 0311372

ont 4
TOPs 1021382 FER 7A S708 :
Pet erewn nn ncec nnn c er enerenenententacatecesecenneene neneeeerncacanne

CONFIMENT I AL 1023212 FEB 78 DEFERRED TELEPOUCH

Cite

TOr = aASHT

SUBJECT:

+ @e FILE: 26290230701, E2 IMPDET,

weed

pasece

CONFIDENT} AL FREE gp tp eee

TP/DPeD (403) INFCE FILE, FF, ONPD=D, C1IZe)

PAGE

785@ (KINSMAN ACTING)

NGTON,

FORt SE/X/LA IMFO LA/CPAS SE/X/SI

WNINTEL RNMUM CKTOP PDQUICK

REFs DIRECTOR 831024

E WHAT POR
PASSED

we WOUL!
AND PASS AS. MUCH ADDITIONA

DEFERRED TELEPOUCH

me

2
a

Li ONFIRS THAT
& INFO AS POSSIBLE,

Mb Fe 7
wl-22efol



OUTGOING MERSAGE

ee Ft

owt “ete,

OnF oO o a o a 1]

ensemcanon :
SECRET

STAFF . RECTOR 831025
mT ME A

TOP, ur: RACE’

Rers “Directory QD.OOt _

de . JRENTITY IS PDBOOR.¥

@-. FILE? 202-023670). €-2 IMPDET.d

PY | ee
~ Fee Boman %
a ws 200236 70/
a se/ei ne Meal Preary, Alu
RAFT:

1 NOT?
: he ter SE/K/LA 1N
en ee | Eoin

Gasteonarew * AUPRGDUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE IEBUING OFFICE 18 PROMIAIT!

& a IMPoRT.
Chay: ONGH4bR



~ | OUTGOING PSSSAGE :
equcctanuts ony We a

Pinttieat

: a
onF oo Q
cunsencanon
SECRE ule
meesnoe nenpue
SSTAFF

teddies na Yo AA

REF y lesezéa {IN abseaal sly

a a 5 tt) o

osre-rua onoe

on
pORsUbZ DIRECTOR

IS PROBABLY IDENTICAL TO

HE IS MARRIED TO BORN ON
THEY HAVE ONE SON, VADIM. BORN :
SPEAKS EXCELLENT SPANISH AND. SOME ENGLISH {DOI! NAR 703.¥

{20)-0236703}. IDENTITY, WHO WAS BORN ON

REPORTEDLY WAS TDY IN

DURING AUG S&\

= SERVED AS FROM 33 SEP LO TO

26 OCT GY AND WAS

MUL 72. HE VISITED

FROM 27 JAN &B TO 37

earae
One
Grits

aid Baer 7769

PROM 2) JUN TO 4 GUL 75. CPYEe ;
ACCORDING TO A DEPARTHENT OF DEFENSE REPORTS | |
oe Be DURING HIS TOURS AND TRAVELEDS ABROAD, was IN

“PREAUENT CONTACT WITH KNOWN OR SUSPECT KGB OFFICIALS.

RSPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE (Osulns OFFICE (8 PROWBITES
'

Bo Hn

@ & IMPORT
Gu py: O4AEHE



* S2-S3. THERE WAS ALSO SBONE SPECULATION THAT HE NIGHT HAVE BEEN THE

| ERD FYE.¥

: WAD NO INFORMATION ON SUBJECT'S SPECIFIC DUTIES IN MEXICO.

: St. WE ENTERED THE KGB INTELLIGENCE SCHOOL IN S& AND GRADUATED IN

OUTGOING MESSAGE

onr oo a a Q a o

|
|
i
|

weseesrertnancs noes i

‘cons: wo: PLE o feel bret ar i

: i: oy 0 mere PER ‘

< —
IDENTIFIED) IN JUN BS AS HAVING WORKED AT KGB H@S purtns

RGB RESIDENT WHILE IN

TS KNOWN

KGB.¥

« FYI? WHILE IN WAS THE TARGET OF
“QornT AUDIO OPERATION FROM AUG BS TO SEP bY AND WAS SUBJECTED TO
“PERIODIC SURVEILLANCE. THIS IN CONJUNCTION WITH THE FACT THAT HE
ws IN DIRECT CONTACT USERITH AND THAT HE AND HIS
“yare EXPERIENCED MARITAL Lil lal abe MADE HIN A PRIORITY TARGET.

je YES ; PER PDSTORAGE {DOTt Lore,

| [source

ALPERVEV GRADUATED FROM THE INSTITUTE OF POREIGN LANGUAGES CIRCA

SOURCE does NOT bib SUBJECT'S KGB. ASSIGNNENT FOR PERTOD FROR

copemraee
BECKET.

REPRODUCTION BY THAR THE



i:
5}
4

Seah e aaa

‘
cone: inFo: Fre aN + ipa eerie i
a.\? O sneer PER ’
a
HIS GRADUATION IN &O TO HIS ASSIGNMENT To PEND FYE.¥

be BASED ON CURRENT SLOT AND POSITION PLUS CAREER PATTERN
INCLUDING REPLACEMENT OF {201-0727b13}. Has op
WILL CARRY i’ it!

/@e PILES 203-0236702 AND 202-08727b33. E-2 INPDETeA : ;
SREQUESTED TRACES ON PCS SOVIET

“PARA b BY SE/CI/X.

011395

G ait

SEMCIK Jrneacd idesseep,
SE/X/LA

CANNY ID meee
pelt

REPROBUCTION BY GTHER THAN Tha 16GUING OPPICH 19 PRONIBITER ¥ a WaPDET
ee



; >

3@ March 1976

ss

(PnBooR)
DPOB: 20 January 1928
CAREER
Sept 58 8

13 Sept 60 to"

Granted one month ae in, pt 58.
No indication he ever fravellad to

RIS: KNOWN KGB

Resident
ee Poot tar 76)

as PRAVDA Correspondent.
Pcs, as Second Secy, then
promote re’ cy, Soviet Embassy, Cultural

eo
Known KGB. Per Sie me

24 October 64: PCS,
27. Jan 68 to
17 July 72 3

Section,
May Seheduled TRY
RIS:

Replacement Pattern:

[———} . ALPERYEV replaced (201-0207254) :

reenyy and was replacod by (201-0762038) ,
ceed th_known| bfficers,

02437046), carried | aH A :

was rep (201356830)
yaou Hos believes Sear [ BuspectO qduring hia tour

a i

i

i

was carried as

unGelG of Enbasny, Lima Poru.
| a
y

arrived Lima’ PCS early March 1976 or late Feb 1076

1 bo carried in



Pe MP ‘

EROS UNIT NOPE, . i

—ABYARGE ZOOL ASAUER, TROL.

AEM Um ET

TT F7e308 taed

SECRSE
cyte 9278S
701 SIRSCTOR,
SKTCP TRaCe

Somes at ems SQ er aa -

en Nn en cnet ee ee eee EL.

NT PARE Odeo
tor: 2220022 MAR 76

% @EgSAlZ MAR 76 STAFF

UU

CRO:

2. WEQUEST KGS TRACES
ACCORDING OSPLOMATIC NOTE,

“EMBASSY ON 2s FEBRUARY 1976,
aks ASSUME SUBVECT REPLACING

who

ASSUMED DUTIES AS COUNSELOR OF

(aso 727013),

TWO WREAS,
FieGs.

ode ééte

As 18

AND 2900727613.

cory FOR

cao 76 1S

po OT DISTROY

ON 2 MARCH OULINDENOS A
MEPORTED THAT RETURNING TQ USSR PERMANENTLY WITHIN

iw 085263
32783



pert mG, 10778

cane ste otsenm av 7 PER.

PERGONUNIT NOTIFIED,

sesuING oPrce (6 PROMRITED

T 776308 G1A647 PAGE 1°03,

TORA2 20022 MAR 76

SEGRE T 2219452 MAR 76 STAFF

crt 32783

Tot DIRECTOR,

CKTOP TRACE

* Gs ~ REQUEST HOS TRACES

= AGGORDING DIPLOMATIC NOTE, ASSUMED DUTIES AS COUNSELOR OF |
‘

BMBASSY ON 23 FEBRUARY 1976,

2. ABSUNE SUBJECT REPLACING :
4 : oF —
OAL OV © Caesee727613),[ ON 4% MARCH DULINDEN|2S
REPORTED THAT RETURNING TO USSR PERMANENTLY WITHIN
“(WO WEEKS,

Se FUE Bade

AND 2000727643, G2 IMPDET

B20 727603 vs,

‘2 AHATG
20l- 236 7o/

Cz
asrnaaee



| a: | <a
|
\ com: GES” ro: ue /, Fi cay 4 : Rav AS

: H i O rmmre pen sos? -
203-0230701

7 : Dome # : ae

i YO: PRIORITY i uf | i

: CKTOP PDQUICK NTTIGER TRACEY Lees Keegphy | ear aeruuee : a
DP? Celene eee

CO AAD EE . SS ©

REF? 33333 TIN Se7qa4) ely . t
he {201-023701} {IDEND IS MARRIED To :

[______} BORN’ 20 SEP 34 IN MOSCOW. THEY HAVE ONE SON !

BORN
ENGLISH {DOT: MAR 703.4 a

E 2] eporrenuy WAS TDY IN DURING AUG 58. ee

SPEAKS EXCELLENT SPANISH AND SONE

~ SERVED AS
[J uas! |
DEFINY~
Ler ewer ——— pres SE DURING
(S2/S3.° DURING HIS ae HE WAS IN, FREQUENT CONTACT WITH

Ra 7 : ess “3
: "Be WHILE IH UAS THE TARGET OF A JOINT «
fe y eg)

+ AUDIO OPERATION PRON AUG b§ xe ‘SEPPLA. HE WAS SUBJECT TO PERTODIE

SURVEILLANCE. THIS IN CONJUNCTION WITH: THE FACT THAT HE WAS TN Dt- “

MADE HINA PRIORZTY TARGET OF THE

Stee ky

| 7. Ps ei
: 23 May ome
(eco copy ] 22 [-A8G 70 |

WaPRCOUETION ay Orin THAN Tie roOUING OFFICE (8 proweree gg IMPORT
: . GL By gaaaay



OUTGOING MESSAGE

aan
onF Oo a
evaeemennon
SECRET
i veseaunrancnme mecaron
STAFF
CONF:

Sona contea uae ory

pIRECTOR 0
: o
GAS SOP a

KGB.Y

5S. FYI:

PER PDSTORAGE INFO DATED SEP bY

ome

THERE WAS ALSO SOME SPECULATION THAT HE MIGHT HAVE ‘been THE

t
_ Ne FILE REVIEW FAILS TO REVEAL ANY CONCRETE EVIDENCE OF INTEL
“ACTIVITIESS HOWEVER. GASED OM THE FOREGOING HE IS CONSIDERED TO BE

"CIRCA S75
END YT.

“paris 22) HA
ena: DEODY
“unin, SE/BT!

be PLEASE” “ADVISE 1F
ILL BE ‘Sent.
SW REQUEST POR TRACES ON PCS SOVIET:

ENTERED

€-2 IMPDET od

hafta fi
sevcrx-L

C/SE/XALA . TN DRAFT Di berseratd

pRovnires

HE GRADUATED FROM THE INSTITUTE OF FOREIGN LANGUAGES
JAND GRADUATED IN to.

ZN DRAFT,

3 a "Tarney

Ch BY: Uaa6a4

oleh

a



onF a

etasurec ata

SECRET

STAFF

cow: SES = nro: re W

CKTIQP_NJTIGER TRACER =~
. REF? Litt Gedo Isl *

Xs IDENTITY IS PDBOOR.¥

201-0234 703 wne 8 pif ;
. Ht {

2. FILE:

ona: DESO!
gute SE/BE.

ares 28 nay avs [RECORD COPY | :

202-023b703. E-2 INPDET.d

wily” MA
z __sernnlendiegd) Cateed |

ARPRODUCTION BY OTIKA THAN THE INGUING OFFICE 1B PRONIDITED a a “TuPoaT :
- €L By:03za84 :



IN MEG. 2/75

\
caus exc oisseu av Z__pen t.
886

aN

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED __

Ret
25,

TORI2214352 MAY 75

SECRET 2244372 MAY 75 STAFF

cite

10s PRIORITY DIRECTOR,

SKTOP NTTIGER TRACE
3. NITIGER

JSS333 (BROWN ACTING)?

PRIORITY TRACES ON

Rarnooucrion By OTHER THAN
BSUING OFFICE 18 PROMIEITED.

IN 587924
83333 :

Son or
WARRTED

empassy,

oR, PUES

WAS SCHEDULED TO 86
PER HABASSO097, 9 UAN 68,
620400243346). KNOWN KGB OFFICER,
OEFER, G2 tMPDET,

Soviet

obo 256-701

yp Bo

|


__ facto roe mous

_]on noes erounsto

Chicf, SB via Chicf, . Wi
hint —“RENROP /POOULCK7ALNCORAZ 3—

jon quauan DUSK.

janeoraaa

can WwOGE ORR

ACTON Rio

to ALAGORA/3.

Distribution:
- Orig & 1 - COS,
i= COS,

201:

An0025405__ 201905

Distribution:
> Everex
Boeke

mi/arn
iced

od

i
a
y
“ho
bad

Yraces_on Ten Soviets Assigned to Argentina
SLITS

Reference: HBBA-01823, 22 narch 1973

Attachment: As stated, h/w

watt

201=0247389 201-0200550
201-0706652 201-0092214)

Wit/S

vires Tru,

Attached are the traces Station Sieh for passing

Serena W. LELINSRI

20te 236 70

We"BUPLICATR COPY
~ OR CROSS FILING IN

8-2 IMPDET
Ob BY 012140

20120033483

“65h

ce een psec tne

RyLLASING.

CIM ‘vane



SUBJECT:

Subject has departed PCS, pebtox-to-ApeLl1973.

~

i
:



CUSSION 7 PROCESSING ACTIC'=

SECRET unter roRwoeG
Chief, Soviet Bloc Dividon |e mooune eouato :
omy quai ox :
___Ghief, Western Hemisphere Division Belen rete ‘
Gutet of station it i
Otransaittal of Passports and Photos _ . a
reroute ates lee ane avezenastestiuerartetiaer arta 7
REFERENCES: A, DIRECTOR 347839
+
B babs ‘ ey

Enclosed dre copies of the passports and personal photos of

(201-256530) and his wife, Subject,

|

bis wife and daughter arrived
a

on 29 November 1972

Rycr-236701), ‘They were met

Atbaulumutes
Herevith As Stated

Be Gatare 6B Wet tie)
‘Be )

= Cadet, WH (W/o At}

iz ee Tatok
SEORET

(201-786652) ~f

Bal: te €e PE, ae

Beatrice F, PETRESUK

HABA ~23032 1 rr) Deoanber 2978

~~ aaa



CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
FERN D

~CLASOMED MEssace

oo

INS ANTS OF INNA S-SEFN AY

CITE

DIRECTOR INFO
REDTOP NIT I6ER
REFS - Ae

21973 (NOT SENT

B. HABA-19890, 31 JAN 68
Co SAGO-5977, 5 FEB

te -REQUEST ADDEE TRACE

368. WIFE|

PROFESSOR

AND DAUGHTER

EFS BAND C INDICATE SUBU STATIONED PCS hs oF

VAN 68 DEPARTED

TRACES.

@. SUBJ AND FAMILY ARRIVED 29 NOV

268 JAN 68), POSSIBLY PCS.

NO FURTHER.

BILOCULAR DTD 29 NOV INDICATES SUBJ IS REPLACEMENT FOR

Se

SECRET

3. FILE: @01-356530,.001-236701.

WHO HAS HOT REAPPEARED

Eee, mmmper.’

\

DUPLACATE COPY
FoR CRESS THUG Wt

We AIS


Fe cgi on sr
Ai In) ~~ teres SP

Paki . 7 668034
REDTOP BLOGENESIS at

te BIBAFFLES REPORT DEPARTED ha a. VIA

TOLD

|

HAD HOPED TO BE LEAVING PCS BUT HAS BEEN

EXTENDED AND WILL RETURN WITH WIFE FOLLOWING HOME
LEAVE. PASSPORT CONTAINS REENTRY VISA.

So FILE: 861-256701. EX-2, APDIR, WieSISH.
SECRET



Via

“88 COPY Mien M AOL Z2 i

SECRET
Chief of Stat‘on, x”

Chier, wa

CC CPSU Representative

REFS: A, HD-7782, 19 February 1071
B. HABA 22379, 17 Septeaber 1972
C. HABA 21982, 18 Hay 1970

2, Headquarters can provide no additional guidance on
CC CPSU Representatives abroad otber than that forwarded in
Reference 4,

3. According to Reforence B, the Stat has tively
identified one of the Foviet diplomats ta as
the CC CPSU Representative. Since thie individual was net
pamed in Reference B, a Hexdquartera review of the files of
Soviets most likely to hold this position bas been made and
atly available to us
(2012128117) appears te this in-
v °

8, Although Present andpast duties do not
Rit all the criter! am Befgerence 4, there are
certain indicators that ho its the CC UPSU Representative,
Little is know of ia Cuba, where he vas
aeaigned as Second 8 of the
Seoticn from 1940 te 1963, Prior to that, hovever
eas & Consular Officer frou 1984 to 1988,

bis reperted daties there, @llowing could be considered... .

a6 background leading to bis ausjucted current position:

@) handled owigre and repatriation matters
aad see iavoleed im ectivities requiring
which be aad his wife spoak
weasenably well,

b) Believed to be active in the Colony's

MBGTUOS, (vaiek im general is social
votter than politieal, although the

political element ia ever~nresest, The ~
MESTEOM Sssrctary ic usually a Farty

getiviat who is Feopoesible for muxing
certaia that ne posdible coviatios from the

wineocanuwanme"" Bapey Bing Grogs ep ia any MBSTKOM discussions

OF setivitios, 1s ocr 4
DierminvTION: BABE-12137 18 Goteber loTl

Orig _.,_ SOLORBOLLT
egecaagt
rt

7 an!

TREE oo: cerece

‘DUPLICATE COFY
TOR Chess FILING IN
HBO QS Me on

sf ceo apnea aa

4
q
it
i

'

i



SECRET BABY 12137

¢) reportedty became angry with a colleague

who refused to prepare a speech comsemorating
GOREIY's birthday.

©) wife supervised production of the Soviet
publication, UR33.

bis current position as Counselor of Tnbassy,

jenjoys apparent frecdow of movement and ia euffictentiy
ee te be the CC CPSU Representative. In addition.
Bo firm identification has ever wen ade |

ough the Station reported

is j~. 18575, 20 Juce 1971, that pt
believed te bo a “Likely candidate for now , a¢
would seem from information contained in headquarters files
that he is wore likely the 8 CPW Representative, dn excerpt
from Reference C containg tho following indicaters:

Daring vis: t “Quinta” almost
every wees-crd

®) lunched with the Anbessader,

b> syeat long periods reading, seated outdoors
uncer the tress and remained generally aloof
from other Soviets,

e} was the only Soviet the Shinty other

Seviets as
~ 4, @) his wife was anid to treat vives of
2 2 lever-ranking perecave] ia & bruak and
3 qutheriterian danzer,
Wile the indicaters cited above usive =~ telat
Fo Semrgrves in establishing that is the

CPay Representative, they de poin'
peontbaaiee teat bo wight be actiog in shat capacity.

SG. We aiall be interested to leara the ideatity ef the
Statica’s testative CC CPey Representative selestica, ia
- Retassee dace gun tucet aiheiyl canecane

ie
8

te
aking ae te the
Bis Depety .

: = Olivia L, BoMELIS



eting
Chief of Station,|
R K” BIOGENESIS

gamed)

1, Since his move te the Residence/Club in mid-1970,
AEBOOR has appeared to withcraw from almost all overt activity,
Rarely does he appear on BILOCULAR and his daily routine is a
complete mystery, In order to determine his present status,
the BIBAFFLEs were directed to run a surveillance on AEBOOR
from Monday, 6 September through Tuesday, 14 September 1971,
During this period his wife was away on home leave, thus
giving him the opportunity to pursue a different life if he
were so ingjined, His overt subordinate in the cultural
field, 201-820310, had left PCS without a replacement,

Presumably his cover activities would %e multiplied, Despite

11 this, AEBOOR maintained a spartan routine which left no

UV slue about his present interests, activities, or responsibilities,

Va 4) 2, Most mornings (including Saturday and Sunday), he
@rove or walked to the Embassy, often buying a paper on the ~~
way, Once inside he stayed until about 1300 hours when he
returned to the Residence/Club, His lunch break was rarely
longer than a half hour, He returned to the Enbi ay and
atayed at least until 2000 hours, sometimes until 2300 hours,
Upon leaving, he walked or drove directly to the Residence/
, Club and never came out again during the night,

¥ S. AEBOOR's only deviations from this schedule were an.
occasional trip to a neighbourhood shop to buy cold-cuta;
one excursion to a leathcr-goods store to look at suitcases;

TOP ABKT!
Surveillance of
SSR IOS

Distribution;
3 = Chief, 68
& ~ Chief, WH

Coron ye ro)
HABA-22433

4 October 1972
2
Vpou-a3e70u



~ and 2014228494,

_ ~

CONTINUATION OF | baatiael SSE IE Re
= SECRET HABA~22432

Pye tal
:

: chee
one_attendance at a MEKNIGHT Kmbassy function; two trips
to airport; 976 gure singly enough, a Sunday
afternoon tour with 201-873887 and his wife to take

pictures along the river front and drink beer in a
cafe,

, SSSSEEEEENSSSEaa
(Q@uring this last excursion, the known KGB officer drove

the GRU chauffour and his wife,) The first trip to the airport
was made in the company of several other high-ranking Embassy
officials to greet an important transiting delegation, (See

HHABAs,22399,) On the second trip AEBOOR accompanied by
201=128117 (suspoct KGB resident) and 2015790164 (chauff:
On arriva}, AEBOOR and his companions went up to the
force tu take photos of the Concorde as it lan for a
O-day,wisit. They were joined by Mr, and Mrs, SIO!

Evidently, the KGB and the GRU groups went
separately to photograph the same plane,

4a, ce during the period the BIBAFFLEs felt that
AEBOOR might have been checking for surveillance,
there were no incidents of note,
approached by local authorities with a request that they
identify themselv

Otherwise
Not once were the BIBAFFLEs

5, In sum, we remain as much in the dark as before about

AEBOOR, With every opportunity and reason in the world to

lead a hectic pace, he spent the majority of his waking hours

within the Enbassy,
only.
the

During the days in question he received
ing, one in connection with
scheduled for late September,

st sea ernment a

an

ey

St:
eet Or




ha
\
;
Ge DIRECTOR : ! :
‘Y"" 6 REDTOP _AEGRIP AEKICK BIOGENESIS Bn eg : :
Ree ssn earl) :
Nan 1c BIBAFFLE TRAVEL CONTROLS REPOR HOME LEAVE
: DEPARTURE OF Pawo HIS
ware ; ] on 23 JUNE 1971,
\D. ABOARD SAME FLIGHT. was i
Uat - ACCORDING TO
= BIBAFFLE*16 ALL WAVE REENTRY VISAS AND WILL RETURN.
(Ge FILES 261-236071 AND 201-025485.  GP*1,

ECRET

Wysy | BA

Pee

Baer 8 S¥tS™



:__Chief, Soviet Bloc Divisi
wh.
Chief, Western Hemisphere D:

a

TO!
___rorwarding of Assessment Questionnaires.
ead es

REFERENCE: BOOK DISPATCH 7509, 7 July 1970
‘

1, Attachment F to Reference was translated and given to
BIBAFFLE transcrihers for their use some months ago, Trans-
mitted herewith are copies or the resulting assessment question-
naires on six official Soviets and three local Soviet Cultural

Representation Enployees, A breakdown on the transcribers and
their products is as follows:

BIBAFFLE-30: |

: )
—____._ CDSE 20S, ssciai
jaa

= J

BIBAFFLE-33; | '

2, The material in the questionnaires sizply reflects tho

transcribers’ 1: and is not ly corroct.
BIBAFFLE-30 sv ore and, tay greying) but
ae tall and hair is still completely sandy,

/ BIBAFFLE-48:

he

Attachnenta:
Questionnaires h/v

eee euler SD (w/ette b/w)
= .} w/atta
@ = Chief, Wi es atta)

iT ena arnold wait
201-820920
90-236701__ HATA-22158
901-860420 opal

201-028485



Chee

St ne me oh

Tao nie

Tee Si as

is arte

TR SE,

ee RL

~ ~
CONTINUATION OF CREAT A TRG ATT Ta
mintiabianae nd tg SECRET NABA-22158

BIBAFFLES-30 and 45 rex
when they describe the
One of BIBAFFLE-415's ij
statement that the
home with singing

w talking of different people
eee
that we are checking is her

have occasional parties at

cing. We have no evidence of such
gay get-togethers,

3, As Headquarters is aware, the BIBAFFLE transcribers
only proc

eSS material from special operations such as AEVARIETY,
AELANYARD, etc, and cannot furnish assessment on all
individuals in’ whom we have interest, However, we have

requested BIOGENESIS to have the BILOCULAR transcribers work
with the form, =

» 7 a
Mara J A lasyy ods
Nina T, NARGASDE



Apedes Parece ne tener.
Espesa: Resa Alexeievna.

Hijes: cree haber eucuchade que ol matrimonie tiene una Hija.
Ivan tiene per le wenés un hermane (que tauhien puede pertcne:
oer 61 cuerpo diplematice).

Pueste quo ecupa: agregade cultural.

Luger dende trabaja: Yo diria-le calle. Oficialments en la
_embajeda, Ne tiena herarie fijo. Se le escuche estar en casa a:
las mas diforentes heras. Sus aalidas de la casa se predujeren® %
tambien a heras mas diversas de dia (y de neche).

* Lugar dende se aleja: aotualmente en la ombajada.

-Telefenes dende mas cemunmente se enouentra: actualmente ne
,- age escucha de les é
‘ B. PARTICULARES? : rT oy
a) Come se le imagina: ae teeter
Saje la mascara de aparente apatia y lentitud- serprendente 4
*agilided tante fisica.ceme mental. Ne es.un linde tipe de hem-.*
bre. Tampece tiene wna figura Barmeniesa, 3in embarge un tipe
que suele gustar a las mujeres. Entrenade. pare eludir e). sigui-
miente. Muy cautelese (hasta cen ou prepia mujer). Le imagines
een la estature mas bien baja quo alta. Juelo salir y entrar
nm la casa sin hacey ruide y sin avise, tante quo ni su mujor

»ge Gaba ouenta cuande ealia © entrabe,

) Referencias al lugar dende nacie: Ne tenge.

Atgun emplee anterier en au prepie pais o en el exterier:
Se eaouchaba en algunas epertunidades quo centaba de su vide
do efioiqi a Resa, Cree gue oatuve oon laa treme de eoupe:
oaén. en Europa. :

Dende oree e pienae uated que naoie: le ubiee on ia Rusia *
fentral, Pesiblementea Mesou. Tiene (junte cen Resa) un dep:
tamente en un suburbie de Nesou quo so llama Moledietact
Stan. Ee uno casa de departamentes nueva.

6) Puede Ud. indioar alge sebro la vida hegarefia, amiutades por~

sensles eto. ! 4
Hobite, pero ne"vive*en casa. La onaa ne es un hognr para ol
@5 aele lugar de catar. Aceros de amictades pucite decir cele j

de leg que tenia on tionpes ouande 10 oscuohnbas Tn da rou~
nienes, bastante freouontes, on au vane figunhnn viempre 3
BAS @ Menes log Misuas porsenge. Les dol grupe de Represen= ‘
taoidn Comercial em primer lugar: Dinkev, 2ivovarey, Nakane

Fetohkin, Jsldinev (oon sus reapuctivas esapesnea), Sekelev~ .

 srqnet

WAS -22 129/02

69 cory ay 4 84 70/



"

eki (y anterisruente Gntigue agregade militar), Vasiliev,

‘ ¥ el misne Veloki (cen quien tenia muy cerdiales trates,
cone tambien cen tede oste wrupe). Lea hue ne Irecuenteaban i

estag reunionoa (y oste llama atinoien) sen: Vragev, los

del grape censular, Shoitaishvili eto. (justamente, al pare="
Ger amiges de. Vragev). a

)

fo

Dates, impresionos y funoién que desempefia la sefera en la
comunidad y peste de travaje que realiza: Ver Resa Ae .
Que idiemas habla: habla bien Tuse, copafiel bastante regular. i}
pore muy lejes de perfecte. En una epertunidad se intorcam= . *
biaren algunas frases cen Reaa en idioma para mi desconecida, ;

"que ne era ni ruse ni espanel cen seguridad, ni idiema germ
: nica ni esleve ni latina (hungare?). En una epertunidad oe
: cuche @ Ivan (estande el sele) oantar en iddich (le que,
turalmonte ne quiere decir que ni que es un judie ni que
@abe hablar csta adiema). : Hees
* @e ZUNCION:

0)

i

, - H
&) Hate individne vive dontre de una cenunidad pequefia, singular
: ¥ muy cerrada. Puede usted decir alge sebro au pesicién don=
tre de esta cemunidad?
Pesicién sin duda elevada. Evidente respecte da parte de 1
[@e@legas. Su epinién oa buacada y @prociada. Da inpresién que
@u estadia en 1a Argentina

ea una etapa transiteria para eou-,
» POP UR pueste mas elovade. Pesiblomento indepondien
»)

te.

Perfeneeo @ la embajada, route

0) Cual es eu funoién, cin quien asta comunicade abierta « enou=
Diextamonte. . :

Quewtién muy difioal de centestar. Esta extremazente caute :
@n hablar hasta cen au prepia mujer. Oftoialmonte os ngregue t
de cultural y ce ecouchs qe per le mones' en una poquefia pare
te depeupota sue funoienca eapecsfious!. rocibimiente (y pare
te finanoiera) de dolegacienes depertivas y artiationa que
Vaonen en gira do la UNI (tamhion le hice Vragev), Vor etre
lade, las verdaderas funoienen 4 agrogvle vultural leo tese .
* empotia Vragev al parecer per entore (oennultas, ourtnn, pea
Aiden do lite

raturn, “Antoroumbie oultural” eto.) Sin duda
Alferiey tiene oentactes velader ce= 4ifor

aiteronte gonte, tante
Gon rosidentes ruses, seme tambien argontines. Do una de ous
Senveranoiénen ae pedria ancar cenclusidn que tenia oi
® fotos ( puede por que pex intermedie do torcoray nernenaa)
Gen general Lepos, @ per le monen-que erte genoral. ne encuen=:
SFA on Im onfera de “inte: “ d@ Alferiev. Tambien. un tal
gehn 3 cuenta catro sia

e Gon. frecusnoia Alfuciay :
Venia @ la casa on altna heras do la nechs. Tambien se oncve.

_ GRO que gale de la sens permitida (cus viajea ‘hice cen ine
* ,8awta), Al parecer @ andes leo dnterosu la ceota nus alla



Lag

fr

“de Mar del Plata, Se escuche quo tiene plata asignnda de
hooer regales (pequefies) para mujéres (que mujeres es un
nisterie). Lea regala modias, perfumes » otras chucherias.
Les etres dates ucerca de sua actividades (nuy escases

cierte) estaban rometides bd chit he gy nd les tengo en
mi memoria.

PELE

ef

a) Cual es su titule eficial (y segun el): Munca hable de sus
titulos,

aoe

@) Coincide el trataniente de sus collogas y relacienes’ © oe: a;

' tactes cen su pesicién ostensible, « se le trata a el cen
Mas © menes respete que merece de aouerde a,su pesioisn. |
Goinoide plenamento,

3. Fisica: : . . Has

@) Siene algun rasgo sebrosaliente otc.: Na, ne tiene. Su mu-

ay Jer @ veces rie de sus movimiontes y pesturas terpes (que *
le sen sele en apariencha). Alferiev tiene excese de sauder,

bv) De comentaries juzga usted que es atractive, pece’e sin a
racoién.
No es atractive, pore impatice. custa a las nujere:
ie llegada de el en sa cuande habia reunienes se fe:
java largamente especialmente per leo mujeres, 3u mujer le
quiere y esta celesa de el.

se baatabhe

Pape erp

_8) Puede dar referencias du sus “proferencias para vestirse 7
ouidade de su persena.
Ne da mucha impertancia ni en vestir ni om ouidade de eu pe: 7
* gona. Pesce escases trajes y son pesiblemente viejes. Se escu’
‘ ohaba que lea daban @ intorvales mas » menes rogulures pura Ea:
— Utdlignban servicie @ demiotlie,

“ qnouentra las expresienes oundos, Liu persuasive en alte
“grade, Ne tiene vinibles mediemes o exprosionos favoritas
Algunas de sue expreoienos ewtun penetra 6 fina ironia, 7
ig eda de anroaome. We s@ puode hablar de Scente prepiamente #
@iobe cuande habla osstollane. Que es oxtranjore so neta de. |
Aejes. 14,, parece tenor side y. talente para idiomas,

, pd YOCALRS. °

es suave, mederada, mus baja quo aguda. Me pauedda, pore
, G01e ligeramente. Habla cen ritme nermal aumontandele sole
“-quande esta exoitade (que euscade, my: “parag veoss) pere ones |
Gin leventar la vos, ‘Ti ves puede ouvtar iuperten-(sele en
Taras coagienes.) Nuda de tartamudear @ halbucenz,



6. PSIcurcas, ue :
Ne muestra tensién norviosa de minguna indole casi nunca.
Sabe deminarse muy bien. Es frie ¥ oaloulador, Nada de‘ tic:
Lejos de ser histerice. 30 enoja en muy rarne ecasienes. Be-
muestra su eneje mis bien cen cestes ( pwertaze) que palabras.
aia trata despeticameute a nudis, wejes de ser sumise, pere >>
es muy pacicnte. : :

7. SENTIDO DEL HUIOR. i: wn
3remea ne muy a menude, si le hace, se neta un fine sentido.

de huser en sun bremas. Ne cuenta ninguna clase de cucntes p

obscenos. Ne creo que le gusta escuchar precacidades y profa—

nidgdes. Su mujer le reto a menudo y muchas veces le insulta, :

Su reaccisn aparonte eo ne prostarke ni menor atencién. tn: ‘

tas de un afie de exoucha no nota on el reforencies al sexo. <*

“8. HABIZCS, INTENESES Y HOSBYES, : ener :

iene intereses, nabites o manuulidades especiales? , *
le se Al parecer hace palabras cruzddas. Lee revistas
_ y @iarios asiduamonte. Ve TV. pan)
Ze agradan bebides alcelislicaa? ae ter @
~ Gensume de alcolel eo. mederade, Vermuth, cofiae “Reserva Jan A

Juan" y Pernet 3ranca sen lao bebidas preferidas. al parecer: *'
ne tema vine cen las cemidas, i:
Tdene inclinacién especial hacia el sexe? (quienes)
Ne

muestra aparonto inolinacién heoia el soxe, Su mujer de ‘xa:".
en ouande lo hace cacenna de celes. No cree que el sexe ~
Le deuina, pere tampoce que ne wn a cerrer alguna quo etra
venture (nada prefunde) si ae le presenta epertunided,
+ Ma una epertunidad Resa le ropreche (haciende un gran esoan-
““@ale) perque le vie beear en la deca a une mujer Cranvien de
‘2a embajada, ne 86 aaouche & quien).

4) Hoban referencias a ctgurilies on la cand. No tiene toe
habitual, -

¢) Cueles sen sus comiden preforidas,
, Ne hay referenciao, Has sebre este ver Resa A.

2) Guales cen sun cempanias Proferidas? Se trata cen aus colegag.* |
, ¥ familia? En que grade? :

Se monoiene ya el grupe do sux amiatados duntre de ouerpe

diplomatios. Alfériev en un tipe que suele hacer tadeo

facil, Ne parcos toner amigea intimes. ‘uo collegne le quie=

Fen y respetun al purecer cen winceridad. 7

Tiene habite de gaavar dinore? te quaja (el @ au familia) de’,

\ falta de dinere? Cunlea sen nus reacoiencs ante quejas de
S$ @axaoter ecencuice? :

| Ne tiene habite de yaatur dinore, Tedo lo ountrarie, In este aa}
Geinoide cen Resa, Ha egotata, Gin. ner meoyuine,

i
t



A ni eng Ge,

“wT

Ne va a vdoilar en rebar, si sabe quo ealdra impune. En una”
oportunidad se esouche claramente qum en una conversacién 1]
oon Resa que, aprevachande doconeciniente de cambios noretari—
68, leyes, idioma y restricoién de movitienten, por parte de*
nee Be delegacién depertiva de la lucha greeefomana (Mr del Pla~
te) y aprevecnande su pesioién les rebaba algunos miseres -
3-4 delares per cabeza. “¥ tedo este ea para nesetres"-decia
: ee encantada, batiendese las palmad de las manes como una
7 nifia.

© "9. VIDA PROFESIONAL,

@) Es aparentamonto aatisfeche con ou poeieién. Per etre parte
oreo que espera un ascense (pesiblomonte un traslade en un
pais de habla francesa)

_ °° }) Cuales con las ‘actitudes expresadas hacia la gente del pais
a ¥ con quienes se trata.

Desprecia al argenti:

hembre orielle y al pais y a cus go :
‘ernantes y habitantes. widera a la Argentina ceme 4 un

pais riquisime, de reourses inagotablea, Expresa su genuine
ihre per el periede de peca preoperidad y dificultades m

eoenemicas per laa cuales atravieza el pais, “ate desprecie

ne le muestra fronte a los argontinea, hate de ninguna ma- :

neral

Que piensa de sus celegus y elles du ei? Ceme le valoren pres! ‘

inte. =f

le waouche epinar aehre lea atres (es una caracte-

wistica tambien de Resa), Se neta su enemistad evidente cen © 4

YVragev. Ji hablan oon Resa de el, le Lluman invariablemente | 5)

», “weag = emomige”. Aceroa de. cene le valeran les celegas ye -:

44 md opinien, :

+» Bhs ADTESOS no

Be eoupa de cempras, Raras veoosi Luge a casa trayonde yan,

@-qualyuior etra ceva quo le oncarga av mujer. ih,

» Manejo aute? “FH
84, moneja, AL parecer vs (por le menea- on. tiempes do ti sou:
ohn) sin wcempatientes ni chefor, .«-. :.

» @) Betudia idiomas? > : 1

( . Apeventamente eutudia frances, en parte en enca cen Rosn. i

he de cantella le antudia practionndele on cualquiera x

epertunidad qve ae le prowonta hablante cen le gente del

pais, Ne ge osouche que tema aXgun cures, Hace palabiua

erugadss en oastelinne, le que ayuda, |

4) Bugares dende va a divertizce (oon quien), sy =

. Balen cen Hea ul cine (atenpre burate) © aprevechande entze"}-9! :

dae libres, cen frequencia y buutante regular, Prefieron por ia!

Semnaneaty nactenslos, Vieltan hares y ounfiterias. Enalgunse gisy.

. oe : +H



= :
opertunidades van al Celen (cres que aprevechande dnvitactén);
Van ueles, acompafiades por etres miembres del C.D. y tumbi: a
een residentes ruses procenunistas. Ea esate aspecte parece
que gozan de entera libertad y se les tiene ilimitoda cen-
fianza. Entiende que para el persenal sevietice hay un cine ’
en la embajada. Al parecer precisamente alli dende ne van.
e@) Ne se escuche nada de medices.
12. SALUD. i ia
a) Se enforme? anit
+: En le patelegice es prepense al resfrie y grippe (on forma
‘' gompre ligera). Tiene (tenia) furunculesis y al parecer
una ferma de eczema. Puede sor hipertireide(per suder sbunds/
») Ne se esoucharon quejes nmi de cansancie na de face
. 23. Sanaros. .
jo, ne se notaron ningunes cambios del anime. eto. en ningons i
portunidad. Que lesa trasladaren del departamente ne parecie |.)

dnoutarles. Ni hablaren de este. Tede traslade se weedals en
forma serpresiva.



eee a these. (obaffll, 40
Dg ann

A.
". Apedo: descenecide,
Hijea: ver Alferiev Ivan.
Pueste que ecupas Jepesa del agregado cultural. . 2 od
Lugar dende trabaja: Embajada, e - i “y
‘ i "Lugar dende se alejas cmbajada, :

@elefones dende mas comunmente se encuentra: Hace muche tien.
Be ne hage escucha de les Alferiev. Ne puede centestar.

B. PARTICULARES?’
I. Persenales:

&) Como se la imagina: ; sarees 7 na Bre
imagine ceme una triguefia, de estatura mediana, cen le figura,
do pasable a buena. Es una persona perezosa, :

%) Referencias al lugar donde necie. Algun amplee anterler en
« BU prepie pais e en exterior. Dande cree o Pienga usted que
naoies :

We hay referencias en este aspecte. La ubioe come nacida: en ~,

~ | Rugia Central, : 4

" @) Puode Ud. indionr alge echre la vide, hogerefia, amiotados par-
Senales etc, .

Mala ama de casa y excelente amfitriena. Ne le gusta secinar

ni mantener el hegar impecablemente limpic. Pecas veces hace

. Gemida 6n casa, generalmente sepas substanciales que sirven

so @ ie vez coue I y'2 plate, jus cemidas solia hacerse tracr

de una retiseria prexima, por le general pecete al here,

« @ambien lee previsienes de almacen ce moia mandir ecauienal= }
mente (ne siempre). Le mieme con la tintororia(vonion a retia
rar prendas.) Pere én oute se torminan suo gauges superfluco.
Be egeista y oulouladera, husoa comproxy lo wan barate posible :

< ¥ Tegndea haom el ultime centave. Ama ul diners.

4) Datos dmpronienes y funoion que desumpetia en 1a comunidad y

23) puogte de tribaje que roolizn,

2eapues dona ‘de un afte de esouchs quodn dnoegnita ubooluta,

Bl matriwonis no parece “trabwjar” on le -avinmo, tienen funode:

Nee wos bien difurontes y-no se confien ioe permeneren di

roepectivas actividades 61 une al otro. ‘wn lo ooau aaniyl

ce" $6 No hablan do asuntee de trabajo.

6) Sue déiomuu hablar Se aan

“bien, vestallane rogulur, Pura hooray ontondorp ne mas.

Ze estudia on 1x conga, Yarcce quo habla ung diem denceneoi=

de par md (vor! : ‘

es



eMare

< Ny

|, Merites prepies, Buena amfitriona, juorida por sus colegas def :

"mss @ menes el misue vango, prcohabiamento ediada por los de po=-

Bicisn suberdinada, por que & esten pon tata como a perros. ba

b) pertenece 2 la embajada. we]

©) Seal es ou funoién, con quien estn cozunicada ahisrta o enou—

‘ ‘viertamente? 7

Ya se dije do le caute que ests este m.trimonie, Carefco de +

1 datos al reapects. Puede ceauniour mi syinion personal de que.

"  “trabaja' mas bien “dentrs" de la celonia que"afuera” en cen-
“traste con su maride. 2esibloe. que dagempefia une especie de

wigilanoia intarna y vola per “buonao costumbres" del STUPCe

~° @) Ea le esposa del agregade y nuda mau, “4

: Si, coincide. iu tratan con respoto unes y la eutiman ¥ guic=

. ken otres, 7 : : ~~: . ca

“Be BISTCA oot Le wt

a #
®) de se menciene raggos sebrosalientos algunes, : 7 fe
d) Les hombres paresen encentraria “intoronante", Daje ella en

bet e@pertunidad ne carente du ergulls que tiene una figura.

DA.

0) Ne da auoni iupertancia a la manera de vestir ( no tants cere
" per ejemple Hlena) yere siende wujer, Sieupre mus que ou aa= 2
: wade. Le misme al cuidnde de su porsena nan da oxcesiva ampor=§
| Banoia, Usa cremas y golvos, pero ne oo muquille, Oritica el @

_ mede de vestir d@ aujer argentina cen cierta irenia yY ou wode
+ dQ maquillaje oen france sarcueme, vrefiero colores exouros | *
pere no ohillenes. Para decir al pase, euta serpresivaionte %;
Dien infermada acerca de vide de la alic seoiudad eatadeuni- &
dense (p.6j. Jackeline kennedy) y de rouleza ourepea y do mo=
dae erionte, — cameenanen ote ;
BXPRESIVIIAD CESCEeieeieticcaceeeeeeen
Se expresu cen mucha facilidad y unbilidad. jo siente comeda
en cualquier anbiento. Faverite mudiome do olla es “ured »
construe, aberten". Parsoe tenor eide para adieuas,

RI GUZO' VO ALK : E
er do heoa es.un alte. Me mederadu-@ aguda, imporiesa y &
‘@lara, Hable rapide. Nada de tartumudoes ‘ni. hwlbucees, i

STKUICAS. " ee 4
ary xtreme celeua. Nea sele hacia otras mujeres, sine @ la
oa noién que le presta uu inmride OL. traraje: deol, ile +
Risterios, pere a0 eneja fuctlmente, ‘tu-eneje paan rapids.
: Quene anfitriena, siempre demina avn tacte cualquiera situ “i
@oién embarasena duranty las reuntenes, A oude une otompre i
Viene lista una pelebra adeouads in eleyie.. iunou, reprtes
WUnoa partictpe en alsuns dinounidn ida otra: persona a purac= *:
was @ heohes ( 39 rofieru & len du ewhujada), jure sienyre . 4
egauchs muy atenta low: epiniones iu ebres. Mo muy diplemation

* gECRE

sed : “) + . Seeaeser

ia ;
ut



aarti aten!
we

J muy cauta > taxbien muy iatuta,
A causa de sus coles barece ser de:
Giva. Reta muy a ar

dirize la vatuta, 2%

- 7. SENZTD0 DE HUZOR,
&s propensa a hacer bromas, es ale.
Oiedad. Sus bromni
vulgares. =n rarag ecAsiones manda a su marido ala De -ques}
le paric, pore os en ecasiones cuando sale a la calle vesti-
de,al parecer dé @lla, inadecuadamonte e cuande ne cuida de.
®u salud. En querrollas entre las des (muy frecuentes) ram”).
Fas veces se escuchan ebacenidades, CSuande se eueja llama’ a.
SU maride “abortey menstrucse" ct

© “fascista",
HABIZ03 INSERESE: NoTayEs ee arr ‘
Parece na tener. Ve con reqularidad TV. (especialiente les
““¢ranamisiones de la here religiesa, esta ne la deja, pasar;
>) Ya se havie ae gate. Vor Ivens** ee
©} *?1ene

ry

- ee
gre, especialmente en

@) We tiene outt.

@ al eatemage, Una Sepa, un asade ai herno la;
rae :

.°, @BtiBface, = ts. : 7 §

2) Ouales son ous Gempaniag: proferigdas, Je trata cen nus colesi2
gag y familia. » i

; Gon teden les de Repreuentacién Semercial mantiene rolaci,
| RO Cerdiales ain ont!

ntrax’'on intimidad, oxpooialmente con
“beg iakey, of miome ne pedria decir con Presper
Vasiliev, do Qgregde mili tu:

* ¢rates oon les Vragsy hay Ai stanoianiente y frence Sntagent ry} ‘.

"0, le mione que cen les aniges de Vragev ( Conaulade, les ie
» Ghedtetahnvilld eta), : ;
Ne, ne tiene hahite de gnoter plats, Tiene habite de guar- .
4arles Sate enforua cuands le falta plata, Una vez cant lie.
. £6 Bablande cen ou maride ue na combinnoién’ finunotera que
Utaligiande au peaioén de. Giplemtica hace contrac”.
mmige de perfumes Pepa y pieleo @ URIS, Utilisa
de efiotales de ie fleta yaaquera © cemercial

* govietioa que la Vieitan

_Spertunamente, :
"WADA pRoyeszonay, foaueee a Betsey
7 SLCRET 7 fe

%
Oe



. st

a) a3 way Vas die wen
guate.
. 4) ai traturse de srleies au oe.
gonnucieneles) oo wostut.
e@) al vasgects ue sug colegas aunch exgre. BU vpinisn, A ella
sauna la purscen eitisar 2 Cuorer,
son los dul grape Jrusov.e

poner.

a) toda 22 que ‘seugra eau (e930 tambien auchos stro de le osle-s4
negooisp judies y no porque
299 quiere, sino yer 2 razenes, Jenera.uente habdlan ruso y
Sienen tradi¢i nhl comiuu ruse, Joneralsoite va aula, a veces
! agemjaiadc, .98 ulagcenes en Junin, ‘orrientes bueyrredon
se nelenwn & menuie, Yara ia ra,u, auy une tionda que esta
on los aubardion de Gran uenes aires. io me acuerdo ana dondeg
ou. furces partenecer a dow ucrainianos. Su uncucho varins
Vocus ioncLanir dirscerenes de -lopssites (no propiumonte ne=
gocies) de duth y Snuvez y Harreds. a. p.recer tienen uni
tacnia oxclustvagente pars su pornonkl an la Rep. Jomerc.
quo se abaotece oon urtisul ys puaadey de moda de ogtoa
negoca be.
bv) so sens? >ferencias de que mane jn auto.
oe) tatudia espn. to Sten on forma gauctice (neblands, leyon=
do), Qutus2zu Prancou on su casa ( 4 voces gon au marids).
ied 9 Yer Alfuzze7 Ivan.
e

ate tet

Pe

12. Jal. i oe

&@) Anginus, Drunquiti.. oon tos pers:atunta con regular frequcn=
: QbRe

»)

ge que je an futiga na de duprasisn de ounsunct».
13. dact ys i

No so iw netady ninzun canis,

Bde. gous 1 dade

al traturay de watrissnie at prinora y fuerte tapresién fué quo
60 dlevan ual, saprousdn que uc dusvunucle yaa G 200+ “wus que
(00 Un erroy conoiderur.o dt, “usa OW exoouivunente onlenu, “ote
expiioa frecuontey sJounks quo hagy & an ne rhde, yor etm pure

ered quo ne la dugugroda mayersente Loa colon de su mnjox (vante
dud del ivsah9). Hahin easenua do aunvuauuorén avy thornug entra
@llew, sntennvs “ el arertoy wenotruesa’ ae aonvertia un “ad ane.
ponare

do» an lo fLnanosere-jurove veinur lu mau. perfvotu gursenta untre
S pabest tate pose le Laurdan.

+ Ms evidunse taunten que tums ouddu da yalud dou wari if

i
;



foo Mae ett

C] Fema oer navies

ic 3_FEBRUARY VIA FROM DAKARe

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION ee / ROUTING AND/OR HUTIALS-SEE

Qo ean = r\
le arenes?
aS! ¢ N
SECRET 0818102 FEB 71 CITE i
¢ :
iC, DIRECTOR Biron 295321
(© _REDTOP_ i

) avesw) :
¢ . |. BIBAFFLES REPORT RETURNED |

STATION KAS NO INFO ON PURPOSE OF TDY SUT BELIEVE IT NOT

€ UNLIKELY HE SUMMONED FOR DISCUSSIONS RE AEPARADISE. 64
a



sree sannat

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINAT! | LASSIFIED MESSAGE

Cj Fee oer ners SECRET .
(When Filled ia)

easeegareagreneeentuy -coctiee

SE CRE T 0818102 FEB 71 CITE 7271 ACTING) i i

- DIRECTOR “Bou 231324 e

REDTOP, “AEKICK BIOGENESIS, ¢

er paa() ES

ic
\¢ , 2. BIBAFFLES REPORT RETURNED
i¢
ie

i
i
|
/
|
\

5 FEDRUARY VIA

STATION HAS NO INFO ON PURPOSE OF TDY. BUT BELIEVE IT NOT
UNLIKELY HZ ‘SUMMONED FOR DISCUSSIONS RE AEPARADISE 64 faa
(ASE. You Beta l Darna e stessimenk,
; “g, PILES 201-236791. GPo1.
C secret

i Seis tshananeanara

CON
TW kn

Cty. sicleiee
DIA,



MESSAGE: TOTAL

“SECRET ...
(When Frived inp,

TeTON Np.

© 973
SECRET 182102 JAN TI CITE) NS : :

DIRECTOR

© oREDTOP BIOGENESIS AEKICK Baum 246580.

CONTROLS REPORT
EPARTED FOR USSR WITHOUT WIFE

@ 17 sawuany vial} PER BILOCULAR,
TRIP 18 FOR CONSULTATIONS
“g, FILE: 201-286701.. Pte
“SECRET



ue

as

pasate Wy Rn

PdnsasnsssnsssoasAsEsuastnateoseeraiee

SECRET 1817252 OCT 10 CIT
DIRECTOR

" OREDTOP BIOGE. .
Je BIOGENESIS REPORTS| RETURN FROM HONE LEAVE OF

201-236761, 9 OCT, VIA

“@. FILES 201-256701. GPe1,
SECRET

steret 0 1= 33640 /

ee ta anal camer ne



pene

‘
es) Eitan’ ote eee teen eee
CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSCMMATION __cLassiser Mec*aGe7 Fors cofes. t ROUTING ANOVOR MITALSSEEN BY
piace eines = aie Lu
SECRET. srennEaEE
—_—- __fithen Fitted in)
CLASSIFY TO C8 FILE NO. - i
nat Toa muna, ‘ '
: \
o.
:
OS 158462 ;
CREDTOP AE! K OG EN : : m Z
t. BIOGENESIS aeport4 TRAVEL FOLLOWING SOVIETS!” - L :
he WHO RETURNED ©
WITHOUT WIFZ, 4 SEPT VIA k
Be WHO DEPARTED 5 SEPT VIA

Lert, PRESUMABLY ON HOME LEAVE,

TO JOIN WIFR WHO PRECEDED HIM WITH SON TN APRIL. .
WHO:
PA PRESUMABLY UPON HOME LEAVE) 7 SEPT VIA
[SBSEEEEEESSEE Boe

2. FILE: 201-236701, 201- 128117 AND 201-653701.
SECRET : if

GP-

MICROFILMED
SEP 331970
BOC. MICRO. SER.

Bo0l-/3.41F
Bo01- §5370/

-  op-236 For

a

Gadi ps Fo





14-0000,

fo apenas eth meen tee ne tae hin Esa a



14-0000

\ sig psa hse tinIA tee



savack



apeg na
Sateayroynd eon

wont, 78 7



§ ran de ares Lig afl!
Pour tr
darts us iiesion Carn Comet LJ :
Mooasana 06 La UROB GW A

Gtouarica an



-Cpox wacroamere macuppiauponava .

RD pycsseeseese Msonnemenseenene satan son AB avnars Be °

_ 5 Ma Gal da préseat penrport ext prolonat



2 etnias Dip) ae 21425
71 € MEE
it 7

a Basu: Visan
“REPUBLICA “ARGENTINA
\ Minieterto. de. Relaciones



sa an at 09 UB BW4 25.2

"pea Vian, ef
JREPUBLICA ARGENTINA, .. acy
Relaciones Exterloras... ,
¥ Culto fed A



Basw Visas

—
fanaa
AAR Cy Fetes!
pabeten!
Cie aeeeY fee ot Sas
rieney3, ot bal

reat Re ceed
ps =
coeds avec me





UNION
“+> DES REPUBLIQUES
SOVIETIQUES SOCIALISTES


“Hpemaanren cere, rpanaad(d. COSA COBETCKUX
COUMANUCTHYECK HX PECHYBS AUK

Roa spocar wee rpauna soem”
rientaney tanheepibedsony eaten



om 3 rae ‘Traduction.
wa, be (itudaire du présent, citoyen..... Je LUNION

‘ BES REPUBLIQUES SOVIETIQUES SOCIALISTES



ee palmer N

Orueren o aporsenus nacHopTa. Renonvellement,
Cpox nacrormero nacnopta Bpoarow
wee AQoerserns Bo



Repuscid
Mintaterle de.

ARGENTINA
Pelactonee .

seat dong YE



t



ney ee

Busw. Visas Buow. Vises

perry
cement Hg
Aaoeabt dere”

ae [epee
cap ven corer, hawenbonset
a promi yy tT]



sunt
aoe

q


TaRTCSIENNS ELOLITE OpEsece,

bee eee
(2 Ofte 62 prierd peseper ast protean

Gar veamere secnepre Spesnes

‘ we
$8 Gat to preead pemepert mat pratengs
- oe,



Others 6 eptaseuns terserte tone
Chon mecrswenes metueges

AP as peegert pate nts eet pete oon

. w.
ke Gilat 60 prtennt pamepart aot jrstongs

”
"

ee eee
sg Sh dr arse cont we oa

HE tates de prenen: rene ect:

oe or gate

a ed ”
Ny et °° any
een get "
hoe
SC eases ESSE

ac Ad
es afr La eres BO TIE TGUES BUCA TOS

Aes Evangtive pre teens oa satarties chee
se Pere Aa dv bat peeate Mtrmeeat
sh de eh ae ee ma oF prmtnetons an

wn

Basgerannrerses?



Sgn etee: be af eltepse . Gy PURI
‘ TPQVET SOCIFTIQUES SOCIALISTER

se LHR on Arger cine

enw) meme td

ay ROM Le CURION
+ PPURT QUES BOVIETIOUES BOCLALESTRS

Fa Mais des Affeaen Pts sngheas pris twaten tee snertten UNtes
eb wagtiatrse de PUI Hh des Baye Aa de Gian pommee Oiemaat
1 Malate an piewent paanngenss oF Oe We acsurde taht LA practi 8

a ae dened qeivcag orapes de we
B.oPPOOLIQHER TOVIRTIGOES SOCIAL ESTH

ee
> tyeuse. tu Bremer ecrétaire ge 1!

6 2TTRSD on Argentine

Sow vewmee

so ra ees

0 aatttaires Ge TURN a ee Pr
fe Wotan, Gu prtmen! pasmepes ot Or bet auvendns cale of BmwtcHionm Ot
popes '

tee

er ama


“4 sis Hanah. HOGA CONROE:
eR ie eer eye ens t PECK Fa ae

a emiitte CR 8
GARRICK COURS ACTIN AMS PCB

te hes caekonateemeetieaa poems © cod
S , sas0o COP wy ws reser y 12 2H 9 Seager
Sm RD BE ys Pte oboe

abe CE A ket COWIE CONE,
ep ARPT RY Oded PRCA TESA

. Meese OO.
COREFORE COMMAS TOGCAUY PPCETE MEE
ee ad

rere
eames COOP 6 Rarer reer | veaap'te anetvenenn SAREE EOD
RRL MULTE AemayS = on cmunnern cer eecace AgNO,

an mee



UNION
DES REPLBLIQUES
SOVIETIOVES SOCIALIST SS

i PASSEPORT
JIPLOMATIOUN F

“UNION
o DES REPUBLIQUE.

SSOVIETION ES SOCIALISTS.

PASSEPORT
IPLOMATIQUI

COMA Cows
COUHASRET ES §

aM Nona) 15 atl

ey ine)

H OUMNH THis

PREECE bass

F}
ay

“sm Ne qpaase

HHO CODE Ts
“PR CIEYBAE s
> ABEMAUAUTTNUE CIO



remigres | GOIOU Ge
SOVILTIOUES SOCALISTES 0 COBMAAHO TOE
PECHS bose

PASSEPORT ©
DIPLOMATIOUL

a

UNION
DES REPUBLIQLES :
SOVIETIOUES SOUIALISTES

_PASSEPORT
IPLOMATIQUE

COIS COBEICKI ES
COUPAAHG FHTEE its
2 PECHYBAUK



GABLE SECRETARIAT DissemnaTiON _,.gassincomesiAt? , * [drat COEES 2-4. “nour 1 10/08
sashes +A, SECRET crf Se

aovance coov [Jiuzo  (]norreo fOUCTION
worn (ve [no _——

clamey To €8 MLE NO.

nee To C8 PRE NO,

O weruas ro

a
oo
&
=
rm)
RS
@e

1, BIOGENESIS REPORTS FOLLOWING TRAVEL. :
AND WIFE \ t
DEPARTED FOR USSR, PROBABLY ON HOME LEAVE, 27 JUNE VIA[~ 1] el)
ee a.

~ DEPARTED PCS WITH WIFE .-

JAND. DAUGHTERS 28: JUNE
NYal

@. FILES 201-256761 AMD 201817222. GPei.
SECRET i

JUL 29 ao”
Boe, sere, orn,

. & Copy


From HABA-21382, 18 May 1970,

Source:

a

BIOGENESIS



ay SECRET ~

;
: : * OpERATIONAL SUMMARY SHEET *

wa 1970
QKume, DPOB, 201%,’ present job and location)

A, TARGET IDENTITY:

wT i
| Bl TARGET BACKGROUND: (Brief resume eon eee eeeeee where

Tocated, whevies wh UY Suspos RIS, Jan >

huss) Sinsteeast

(Short statements on following where applicable:
formants, residence audio/taps, office audio/
C/O contact, BAB assessmont,. past recruitment
starting dates.) F

‘accoss agents, access in:
taper, physical surveillance,
attempts, other, Cite significant docunents,

| ©. OPERATIONAL SUMMARY:

Office Ata: rt
C/O Direct o ntacts (HABA=20210, 16 January 1969).

of Busceptibilities/Vulnerabilitics: (List of everything which
Us), an

Li i Z
‘por oly ‘oxploitahte b; id significant etepe we have taken to clarity,
Cite document/source.)

confirm or refute it.

argunonts xtkk betwoon ALSS ORV. and wife (AELAIYAID, BIBAP LE repovts, WDAe

20528)_ Thoir behaviour in Fublic do ol) mrontnosa and Vents she apsears almost
Like @ difforen’ person, Sho apzears to havbor racontnont againot hin beoanze of his
behaviour trimrds hers : .

. ALFEIOLV de very talleconso lous. (rarde21000, 10 Doconber 1969). "

ALiWLV hao on cecaaion rained out all nichts ant han clainod to hin wife when ho
Gone he1o that he haa heen worklige (TMiie210"0, 10 Deaenber 1969), Sirvedtian-e on
hie ot nicht allegedly proved he mide dlondustine orntagtos so :



7 : 7 i sera

SECRET

Chief, Western Beatsphere Division
Caief, Soviet Bloc Divieioa

Chief of dtatize, ‘

—

he Rendquarters traces are requested oat

Gomer ree

on

t Married, wife's cease, ]

iT

| co

@. Sration traces shoe that! apparently a @ueicien by
profession, hae @ long record of associat! it frst groupde
of the fsunding scavers of the

i aud reported
wad el fornerly the
Gyecifie references incldet

Be BAB-O512+, 16 Ootade: hie as the owner

‘of the building in whieh the

pad tt Heedaverters’ . (Taio docuneat also entifies[_ oo

Ba WO|ILOS1, L7 Cotarer 1961, which

| as [(_____paitg, Harch 1963, watch states!
‘the Bis Congreso for Solidarity fer Cubse

“* Bhetetoution
} 2 Chief, WD
Chief,

excae? Bole

reports
to Cube ot the Luvitative of the Confederacion da Trabejedores ée

i a o ie

25) Mabbepan6s +" 6 March 1gfO

ettendad



SECRET BABA$B 1266
@. BABA-15153, 20 January 196%, which idsatifica| hod
@ eenber of the Comunist factiva of the

- are presiule setlaee the Station is taking a close look
as a possible unilaters) eccese zyeut. As @ of

the fire which is currently sponsoring the visit of the

bee fe in constant touch with bith ARS008 aud £01-001310. Be ts, Ia

tt



iG

:

‘16 Hareh 1970

AEBOOR_ TAROETING EXERCISE = 201-236701

LE

EMT AL cHDROINDS
AFEYLIATION: Known XGB, Suspect Deputy Resident:

rrr pene
POSITION: i :

yPOBs 20 January 1928, Tula

FAMILY: Wife = in
Son (born 1955) = in Hloseow

LANQUAGES? Spanish, excellent
English, sono

rome

19981 ‘TDY (possible),
19608 Hay
1

: 1968-5
‘RESTURNCE: Private apartment of Enbaosy Olub

EERSOUALIIYY Repanony WUE MADEN Mewicass & Poneen And
naa =196yt Poasant broligrounds Vulgar/orude sneechs hiphepitehed =

ready voicao. fou Yooabulary. Cholorie Senpnmente Ruddnontary sense of humor.

Easily pret by omall things Tmpatiend, domandinge . fi :

AELAWAND = Hovorbor 19671 Honpneliod. Mite slugs axguing vith bins

4 TAAL }UR 8 1 Introvord, clevor, oautioug, diotrustédl Excellent
self-controt, niles hig feuldngo, Geolally, Joldngy good sense of hunore

 WIRRIS PRRSOUALITY' oom ek

WEHOASS = Gs She 40 more intellicent than he, | Nob abtrattives
Donirwortige Tnpleasant vith hunband. varily-of Laarae ces

Z. agrammeras She {ins fnulé with her hucband for no avparent reason

SVARCUT and MARCAUDE = 1.9628 Warm porsonality, attractives interested
an weary oflintlove :

22 ANIRe Sand 229 In private «= total ‘Jack of underatanding of her
ths rd ly te
qua LEO a apy manta’ HES UM Aapeateleie



,
J
)

i INIMULIORNGE ACTIVITY:
January 1962 cbeorved casing a State Dopt. building with the
Cuban Commercial Attache Close contact with Cuban diplomats and

locel OP leaderss
1963: trip to Fnsenada. Contacted rural, recruiter to: acsess Mexican youths
desiring to eiudy in USSR.

Mexican tour Involved with leaders, Of need
rahe

appeentn,


e

+2. Attached please find a seven-page report in Spanish come
posed by members of the BISATFLE unit. While tho report le wot ale
ways accurate, it docs represent a good effort on the part of the

BIBAFFLE team to pull together ‘all available information (telephone
taps, surveillance ‘and audio ops) cn Bovict porsonalities.

est that you make pertinent extracts from the at-

: 2. We suge
tachment and include the information in your Headquarters files on

. Andividual Soviet personalities.

MICROPLMED
MAR 2.0 170
DOS, MICRO, HER,

Attachment :
“|| BERAPTLM Report Ww

* Distribution ee 7
+" 5» Chief, BID watt Ww. i.
@ = Chief, WHD w/o att

w3 a7
ci faa a HOA iT

HAWA+2IP2) eee



sia

7 eer neremenene fom
;

Por soya Linden eT RVON On TENE ;
a (=, i
¥ : if lurvieio do Into ligoncia. 4
Aunque norinalmente a cargo do La seocién Cultural on Ouleg 2031, ‘
ée la oporucién tolefinica surge qua tiona poco contacto con el publico.

2. -En-Bauxvo reoibié una llamada del weropuortoe de mionbre
le @e1 equipo m w Dynamo" en ruta a un oncuontro en Santiago
eran obviamente buenon auigos pw sto quo
[6 Tou nuchuchos en Héxico".

8.
le. tnajo saludos

: cy im
3. Las converaactenSiae4 con su esposa fon bruscas, En una '

me % tosedén en mapyvo cusndo llamé para aviear a mo(jio dfa quo no iba a casa
para comer elln le acuud do ontar ®yn borracho , 19 quo ostuba confirmado
pr pn convernucién vaollanto., Una nocho le pldié que hiciora té pare
08 VRAGOD (ora las 21 hors) y ella do ini honor gontostdé que estaba
ee a lo cama, pero‘Linalmonto connintid hacerlo.

oo"

2 POH I,
ROME Rario Cultural. Oficial dol = -})-



2% ia erg -
te cc aa“aaae a point of complaining -

a | several times in the course of the evening, about not being :
“4 invited to our 4th of July celebrations. fe lamely pointed out He
that the affair was so big that wo only invited men = Ambassadors,

Hilatts, and Comm’. Chicts, and besides, the food was lousy.

Nevertheless, we assured him he'd be-invited the next tino,
Me was suffer ini

> his uaual.case of halitesis, which effectively

7. keeps one at a proper distance. was her charming self,
with a sparkle in her flirtrtious eyes. She asked us to convey

cha to LEVERONE and MARGANDE.

teeta

Ao aslasbibisian Ye bain tnt 3

- Swiet © Nwemsee, Ceu Bernas
Wea Del BTevemey {fo

es iD in ELS


' Forwarded as a separate cover attachment is a translation
é

7 of an assessment of ARBOOR progared by tho RBIBAVFLE Soviet

¥

& Desk Officers, BIBAFFLE-5 and 24. ‘The aasessnent does not

tally completely with ouf assessment of Subject in some minor
points, but it does presont another view which should prove
of interest to Headquarters analysts.

iE
3
a 7 oh ‘ LEVERONE
on : ee oS. PT WCROFILMED
Ee t
oe ee stiyEye ap tated i) i dh 1 61970
an val meee a ot DOC. MICRO. SER.

+ bok
Dis$ribution:
« O/BBD, w/attach u/s/o
8 ~ O/MHD, haere
‘ky a Ay MS iDpbY ee
See vet 03 ort

ao

HABA-21080 18 Decenbor 1960

i
!


1 = dl
* : SPECIAL —REPSRT. js : y v) H

Ain’ SURIECT

20th of January 1928,(- SSCS) arrted tol]
born on September 20th, 1934, ‘in Koscow, :
Subject is assigned aa sd of the U.S.S.R.
xe Embassy He arrived in this country on the 27th of January
19608, taking up residence on Sth Floor, apt. "A" in the Federal
Copitel, [_________] Living at said address until Ge 7th of October 1969
when he moved to live at the

rte

i
: (was born in Moscow (U.5.5.R.), on the
{

Sar SER

5

: : had been for a short twe in during the month

a Be of September 1958; in Havana in September 19°; in Quito in January and February
: “!. Yog2 and in Tijugna in September 1963, He was representative

ee [—__] during 1960 and 1964,

In view of the fact that subject lived separetely from the resé
of the Enbassy personnel, his mission based on information was thus made easier,

Te should be pointed cut, that during his residence on
he wae kept under surveillance through a technical penetration carried out
by this Section.

Aa a result of the exploitativa of these Lines, ae well as the
Ceee "ASADO" (aummer home) and information trom the| certain detaile
: Goncerming hie perscaality, private life and contacts have been ascertained,

: Tarough thorough study of, above wentioned sources, it is apparent
thee the[ [have certain difforenona, during which he 4s the object
Of vituperation from his wife[_ | which "Ivan thoroughly dgneres te the
greet exasporation of his wife,

"Mee EERIOMALITY oF ag

i ms Ho de un introvert, clever, cautious and distrustful, He knows

how to bide his foolinge end he has en-excellent self-control, showing violent
feelings on very rare ocessiona, (See Section IY).

Y With relation to his cultural level, nothing much fe ve 66

‘he has never been heard spanking on themes ef general culture, Wren he speaks

: at en gatherings he 4s Joking, & "Ete jouble meaning phrases (usually funny)
ale. atts HABA siote Ws BOM BETO

he ad a ta AR



‘ -~2-

j . oF he tells jokes, It is as though he were afraid to show that he takes
7 things seriously, as though he were ashamed or frightened.

During she various opportunities when his wife is screaming ail
sort of impropicties at him he maintains absolute silence, seeming to be

Concentrating on one fixed idea, and letting al) that( hays just slide
off hin,

He has-been identified and known to belong to the
18 considered a high

official in the enbaany ond of abdoslute trustworthiness
being respected end feared by the rest of the embassy steff, Ho
epesks perfect spanish, : .

He is present at all receptions with!

Teapectively), not
only in his official position, but also in his private life, having a wara
friendship between the three which ie quite rare in the embasay circle. During
his stay at the sumer home, and his wife occupy the quapters reserved
» fer the anbassedor, :

the PERSONALITY oP So say, FS
ae & A certain duality of personality is apparent in her behavior, In
: her's married Life she shows herself to be Antolerant andinpetuous, arriving
@¢ abselutellack of control on various occasions, bringing forth continual
macieal quarrels,

ae | On the contrary, in her accial Life, she shove herself as. very
‘ deotie, cheerful woman, being the center of ateraction in almost all the
gatherings for her "lovely disposition” and gaysty, not only amcng the men
but aleo their wives, (See section I),

[to womae brought up in the typical
" poviet atmonphoro, subjected aice childhood to a rigid political indoctrination
_ fe some Juvenile organisation and in school, She’ is not autficiently intelligent
to rid herself, even partially, of what she has been tought, She does not nate
* vate her affective life from the obligations that she, presumes, every“e!
“@htdsens should have. it neema that ble does not realise the importance ef
‘her busbonds miseion, she 19 not a woman who 16 attuned to her ‘Companions
, She isnot on the sane wave length, she does not understand him, She harbors
> @ Goncentrated end continiucus resentment agsinst him, Maybe thie de due te.
Me irenic,end keen and wounding sense of —



€&

: anise eatan ja

With regurd to hex surroiindangs, this woman has shown, on various
opportunities, to feel antipathy and scorn for Argentina and its people, dueuzh
probably to its leanings toword democracy, and therefore, contrary to her way
of thinking. As she has show, not to possess much Jmagination, she takes as
wonderful that which she haa ween taught. However, the reason for her poor
matrimonial relations remains @ mystery. Maybe one of the reason, as stated
above is her lack of understamding of her husband, so that one quarrel on top
of the other has built e wall Which cannot be breached.

In the company of her friends, [pes alwaya shown herself to
be pleasant, gay and uncomplicated. She has not always masked her marital
problems, so that they are uet « secret to the rest of the menbers of the
exbassy, who nevertheless "ehe believe they know nothig about it, through
consideration or whatever other motives. they may have, On some occasions
has taken the initiative to improve relations berween the
to no avail.

atari Pibchinainant ain basckscsiemen 7

ch

Sk i EFAS

TV. HODUS_OTERANDI. WHICH HOS. SHOWN UP_FROM SURVEZLLANCE ae
During the shadowing of he has shown himself to .

be an expert in this matter, ¥e is observant and hie movenents in the street
“gre carried out carefully and abigy- on sany opportunities he cen ¢
’ "hie shadows, He is an exceliont ¢river, and he uses all sorts of ruses to
drow off the egents on the job, This is proved below:

Shadowing oa 23-85-69: oth a
. We drove bis car down turned on @ July going tovarde[__]
which was closed off for repairs, In the middle of the street were two
signe which read: ‘Subject disregarded the signs
end continued atraiaht ahead tevarde| where transit was cerpletely
_ off, and he had to take ¥ July again ond cones to the

With this trick, wanted to learn whether he was being

‘followed.

"_ . SHARSWIND on 20-5601
fle vent into the Rank of Napoli, approaches the counter, carries on a conversetion
with en employes, and vaniwhes without being observed inspite of close vigilance .
© Before going into @ building of atore, he locks: in buth directions and searches

earefully. oe

e When he goce in his oar, be drives cleviy, but every so often, he steps Py

‘the gas, and then abruptly teduces epesd, doing this serhe tines.

yest: oe ARR
-



. An. bid
t _ eeburimg-all the shedowings carried put, subject eiways managed to go ahead
on the yellow light, leaving his shadoh generelly facing the red light.

= On various occasions he want up one way streets,

Ve~ CONTACTS

It was ascertained that| jareiyed home very late at night
and even at dawn, wiich is quite out of the o-dimagy with the rest of the
@iplomatic personnel. (See Annex’2).

This led to the supposition that subject was either leading a
Licentious life or carrying out clandestine activities, Therefore, a permanent
suvervedllance was carried cut during 24 hours for 20 days on his home, proving
that he dégd inreality come hone between 6 and % at times.

ne ee rent ener =

2 Fifteen days before his return to the %.S.S.R. for his leave,
@ surveillance and shadowing service wes set up Gating oll 24 hours, provirg
that subject did make clandestine contacts,

It was under these circumstances that @a the 21/8/69, at 1200 hours,
contact wes spotted, This occurred once again GA the 23/5/69, at which tine
che "contact" was suspicious of being followed ead he pulled quickly out of the
* pea, que ee

: a On the 16th of August of the present year, when @ security agent who

was 2 corrying cut his duties on the_____laddreay (improvement or the P.T.), :
spotted the sbove mentioned contact patrolling Uke tone; with the aid of a Police- ©
wan he was detained in order to be identified, bis documents are the following:

eee shes ie DOIOK ptsaaaned SN mer

MAME ee eee ee eens

GENO ve eee a

AMGress.s we se eee ree esecere

~ Profession, wee eee ere seve ree y

After investigation was carried ont At wee eatablished thet tuber

444 not live at said address and. that his 3.0, vas not his.

: Gontinuing the investigation it wae learned that at!
ath 1 fieee, a certain’ id live there, and that he worked at[_ |

and also in the firm

] which wae in the conatruction and sele

ef

When(SSCSC«édit de ARG, At wae Learned that thie fire
“wed gone out of businena for some time.



-S-
a sn" pur

. *. Following investigation, ét-wea-Jesened at the administrative offices

of the tim!
the agent in charge of the investigation was waited by subject, who -

turned wet to bet

H :
i Morea vv eee cece ee errr ete Ss. al .

\ WeescUUUhiiDDDDDITD) EE: 3s

} a ee aera er aera errata arte ee aac Bi? antats
\ Date ef Birth sce ee ee ee eee ees HLS tt i
\ Bon ef e as cosscersrcrerr® Gee: Busing, 7
t amd vw wee ewes RA ,

Addrest ye cee cc ere
Cc

Hames of Wife... - eee errr rer®

Gila Worse ce eee rece rreere 2.600.078 Pol. Feds vn Contact | "

i: . a f y os a
_ oc - iteggdemtas . | Seca <n :
meee does not have any police nor ideclogical gntecedents; q
f * Matdd the year 1961, he worked at then at ea

* Te should be pointed out that in order to establish his activities 3
end ceanections with starting 22-10-69 surveillance end shadowing 4 tee
La

waa eareied cut on subject.

es on the other hand, and as a result of the use of the clandestined
microphones, it was learned that maintained conversations with

" g pereon by the vane off] Who was 8 menbor of the directive Council

of the Metropojitan Federation of Chess and the [__ WeAbraeton.

Inveatigation carried out on subject determined the followingt
i SSeS EEEISE 20

Bods Wor cee Pol. Fed. eeik
Luts Wor os EEE ee 08.
Bonet oes Fea eee
and sone
Pate of birth pe eee reece October 30, 1916
Place of birth seveeee eee >
Oe) ee ee
Waee of Work (address) oo ee oe

Memes voce

eee So occupies the peat of Secretary of
Chon Pederation with head quertere in. the Sporte Confederation Buildings



address on

Beginning October 22nd of this year @ surveillance ani shedowing if
Service was established to determine his activities and possible contacts

wa]

Vi. CONCLUSS ONS

With reference to the

the following conclusions have been reached?

&) He is a diplomatic officer who carries out his professional work efficientiy,
showing at all times great sagacity when carrying out public contacts and
relations, avoiding on various oprortunities with ingenuity and ability the
shadowing detail aysirned to him.

b) With reference to his relations and activities within thelinbasay, it is
: observed that he carries a lot of weight over the rest of the perscmnel, as
susie Heer esas nerea he is given deferential attention and respect not only at official bat

ime f private functions within the circle.

“e) He 48 @ person who is always busy, on the go all day and om inte the late-
hours ef the night.

4) His married life ie not harmonious, due to the charecter of his wife who is
temperamental end impetuous and not tolerant toward subject. 1¢ is estimated
‘that these misunderstandings are linked to his activities outsidde ef normal
werking hours, which take him awey from home, as well as, the indittereace
end silence with which her recriminations are. received.

@) With reference to hie contacts, mentioned in this report, the corresponding
“ dnventigationa are being carried cut.to determine how twp they reach _ their
u es



Chief, Soviet Bloc Division

Chief, WHD; coS,[ _—=——_—|/MKSPICE
7
Chief of Station,, | 5

aac 5
RYBAT REDTOP AELANYARD BIOGENESIS,/ABGOOR

ACTION REQUIRED - eEFLRENCS ]

Referenc

FROCESING ACTION

'
3A. 801, 2 October 1969 .

B, 3837, 9 October 1969

1. We have kept you up to dxte on AEBOOR's sudden move and the
subsequent termination of AELANYARD, it the present time ti:
t know whether or not the story of a sudden transfer
was in reality the basis for the move or if a comprom
cy ‘tion was the actual cause, As wo pointed out_in our criginal

cable, our immediate thought was that perhaps the

had caused all AEKICK types to “pull in" and that perhaps AEBOO!
was simply following orders. Subsequent investigation, harwer,

tended to discredit this thought.

2, The AELANYARD transcripts reveal that AEBOOR did -indee :
contemplate the move suveral days before we actually had wind of it.
His wife did «ol like tho ides and complained to him about the
move, AEBOOR also told his landlord in advance of his move, There

is go evidence that AEBOOR was in somewhat regular contact with

: bassy and although we were not certain, it appeared
nxious to learn if his viea had been granted. In
cage, on 28 September 1969, ABBOOR and wife checked out of

a
their apartment.

9,. Ghortly thereafter, we made a physical check of the interior
of the apartment, Everything seemed to bo in order, Thore WAb no
evidence whatsoever that the technical end of the operation had
been tampered with. As we said bofore, it functioned up until and

after AEBOOR vacated,

me Ea e7aan Yi :

a : aUe4

4: GE $rwesorea”|¢7
iG

€S cory -
FAT TRL WD
HABA-20079

an

Continued. » «

4 November 1968

901-236701

=.


|
|
|

igi ATEN SVOBOT RB RUE

HABA-20979

__ CONTINUATION OF a vee Sere 7

DISPATCH | SECRET

4, We have not been able as yet to establish direct social
contact with AEBOOR, Both Nina T, NARGANVE and Paut W. LEVERONE
(who tnve legitimate reason to seek him out) have tried, but to

date, to no avail, Oum hope has been to have Al actually tell
us of his plans - will he indeed be transforred ir
original thought was that a ¥ jetermine
df he had indeed applied for a visa to that country. As you know,
we struck out here also,

8, The fact is that as of this writing, we do not know
whether AEBOOR's move was routine and innocent or if indeed there
wos BoUnt, nintor tavelved, Lf AELOOR does indead pick up
and move we shall, of course, be somewhat relieved.
However, Not answer categorically the major quostion =
was tho operation compromised? It ‘would appear that regardless of
what happens to AEBOOR, we shall never know the actual reason for

nig move, However, for what it is worth, the evidence here does
not point toward a compromi



CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION, ~ “LASSIFIED MESSAGE, TOTAL COPIES 14 ROUTING AN VOR #YTIALS-OHEN dt
Re oa i
SECRET ...2 sn
(When Filled In) _—,"

MaPmODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROPIEITED
comm (ve Cin
cuampy To C8 PLE HO.

_sovat cone Cuneo [Jacrres

——

OV) eee AN,

| SECRET 0917462 OCF 69 CITE
‘| BUENOS AZRES, INFO DIRECTOR
|

RYBAT REDT! ANYARD BIOGENESIS ) t
| LREFSI Ae avy as9seh
' > Be Cr eee oe

1 | es NO INFO RE AZBOOR TRANSFER.
Be FILE: 201-236701- :
‘SECRET :



-t 7 ae

ROUT ancorom WiTtALS-REEN BY

_—
ip QCABLE SECRETARIAT DissemNATiON = Crasumen wmeOMEssAGE TOTAL Corie’
Oy sstaar sons —

“) SECRET ove
3 eae <a

sovaner cory Jremes  CJaorrer

woes Ove (le
CLamey 0 68 PLE NO

1
beilt ta RARE YO C8 PLE HO,

Oras no 0 neruan ro nee

le P : d li z
me < tlels citi Claris Sefre,

SECRET o9tez0g oct 69 CITE 837
GIRECTOR INFO

MaBns2154—- t

!
|
|
RYBAT RECTOP AELANYARD BIOGENESIS TECHS
REFS saul OS§SAY,
|, fe AEBOOR TURNED OVER KEY TO LANDLORD 7 OCTOBER.
““ B OCTOBER LANDLORO ACCOMPANIED KANOUSE AND BIRAFFLE=:

APPRTWENT THEN OISCREETLY WITHOREW DURING INSPECTION. YANQUSE
AND BIBAFFLE=c8 FOUND NO EVIDENCE atcanrgea INSTALLATION Had i

. BEEN O1ScovEReD. eae

©.) Me LANOLORD WILL visiT unesn 9 OCTOBER FOR FINANCIAL
SETTLEMENT AMD AT KAWOUSE REQUEST WILL OFFER APARTHENT FOR

RENTAL BY OTHER MHIARSH ofr cia.

Se FOR AMY COMFIRMATION Of AEBOOR STOKY RE

: hn ANSFER?

we 4s PILZs 204-236701
SECRET



LeAOLE SECRETARIAL Unseen. LLADIIEU MESSNNE __IUIAL COPIES <=
Ue SECRET oe |

(When Fille in) Ec
Cncrree

aovince cory [fuses Bepndpuerio or twa cone PROWNITED
weak (ve (Jno

CL AMPY TO C8 PRE NO, an.

MRED VO C8 PRE.

“RYBAL REDTOP AELARYARD BIOGENESIS TECH
REF e Cee seO won f
: fo FOR ]ner DESCRIBERS AEBOOR'S (IDEN) ABRUPT
" WOVE TO PRIVATE APARTMENT OT EMBASSY CLUB. . -
@ O08 3 OCTOBER BIBAFFLES INTERVIEWED LABDLORD
_ we STATED THAT OW 18 AUGUST AEBOOR SAID PLAGNED VACATE
" QPARTHEWT I8 FIRST DAYS SEPTEMBER BECAUSE OF TRANSFER TO
PARTMENT CONTRACT RENEWED TH JUNE WAS sot FoR :
YEAR AS STATION KITHERTO ASSUMED BECAUSE OF coneaoT 108 Last
YEARS CONTRACT, BUT CONTAINED SIMPLE PROVISIOW FOR THREE
WONTH ADVANCE WOTICE FROM ELTHER PARTY, LAMDLGRD ADDED
* B18 got PLAS MAKE ISSUE OF RECEIVING OMLY BIX bia WOTICE.
PIVANCLAL SETTLEMENT PENDING, :
3. STORY WAKES SEUSE SINCE BILOCULAR snows. meceuet
ARBOR CALLS TO BEGINNING
(6 SEPTEMBER. Lt RETROSPECT WOW CLEAR CONVERSATIONS
QONCERUED HIG DIFFICULTIES OBTALNZNG Wasa.
= ABGVE APPEARS SUDICATE benehiuiadl WOT COMPRINIGED,

CO we mm 0) mere 0 ee BANE

SECRET O3aReiz OCT 69 CITE 3814 ACTING)
DIRECTOR, WFO

3esuses24 t
mM |.

1 °



é
seeesaseseasae"="

wage re wien

(thon Fitied in)

euasnpy ve es ue em

more feu secret

5. FILE: 261-236785,
SECRET

PVR URES,

Rey APWLE Sind oa Te

rarer


ACAULE DECRETARIAS URUOMMAITON _LLASIELO MEI WUE _IUTAL COTES. <—¥
rere SECRET . sm
Filled in) Se
Reraapbetse yor yan eet premere |
mod Oven Cine

CL PY TO 68 PRE WO. oon. ube

sovanes cory [Juuso  (Qjacrn

—

an,

ow

HARP TO C8 PRE HO.

aa SMULIESIEEEL| Cyrus ast eae og SUE !
ey pavecevaeecernreernn ereneerrnnray SoeerrraneeTE 7 ‘
we wwe sie ede2 cists :

RTBAT REDTOP ARLAMYARD BIOGEWESIS Mer n5 8520 ; v

Bers wuliy Sesav) | :
1, IEW 18 Hee ete a

‘Be PiLee 8Sl-e36701.
“qtohker = -

|
‘
SECRET @Sen2z OCT 69 CIT S815 ACTING) | ’ {
DIRECTOR,



{ef
Filled In) Sectercarat ry cA
: REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROWIMTED.
: Saenepecy ior te Sco
i | extent v0 es rae no, Oe D5 FD
bal ctemeemranttt ma waar vo ce mute, ree RY,
ee: \S alent
bey
{

eas ge a PR

mee $C rae mo CO) nerve v0 es

SECRET @21845z OCT 69 cite, 3801 ACTING)

DIRECTOR Loa 857337
RYBAT REDTOP AELANY2RD : TI. |
1, OM 28 SEPT ABBOOR AND WIFE VACATED AELANYARD |

Yi! APT AFTER HAVING PACKED HOUSEHOLD EFFECTS, THEY MOVED

DIRECTLY TO WHERE THEY PRESESTLY RESIDING,
GOUTRACT WOT DUE EXPIRE UNTIL JUNE 1970.
& FIRST INDICATION OF PLANNED MOVE IS FROM

Go" TRAWSCREPT 28 SEPT WHICH DUE TO BACKLOG AND WEEKEND HOT $e vet hate,
oy) PROCESSED UNTIL S® SEPT, Im THIS AEBOOR AND WIFE ARGUE
cn \- WER ofcrsion TO MOVE OUT. UNFORTUNATELY LANDLORD OUT OF

“TOWH AMD WE DO NOT RAVE YET BENEFIT AEBCOR'S FUTURE
7 biscussioN WITH RIN RE REASON FOR MOVING, -

3, AT THIS NORENT VE UNABLE DETERMINE REASON FOR
“"SUDDEW HOVE: AWO WRILE It APPEARS COMPROMISE OF OPERATION
A LIKELY CAUSE, WE UNABLE MAKE CONCLUSIVE STATEMENT. AUDIO
Hy HQUIPNENT FUNCIONLNG WORNALLY, WE PRESENTLY INCLINED
‘a! \BELEVE AEBOOR WAY WAVE RECELVED INSTRUCTIONS MOVE DUE

, MOTE AEBOOR AND 261-885465 ONLY TWO WITH



CABLE SECRETARIAT oi Ci as 4 arrane-sume SY
Famer WoTIRED —s Scan iH

FarAsoveTion oF THK
mors Cees Cine

EL ARRPE TO CB PLE MD. einen a,

HemEP O68 PLE NO, rc

ne

PAGE 2 sor SECRET

PRIVATE APARTMENTS, ALSO BELIEVE If SIGNIFICANT THAT
AEDOOR DISCUSSED MOVE WITH WIFE. CANNOT JATIONALIZE THIS
IF HE INDEED AWARE OF OPERATION.
ay ME CONTINUING INVESTIGATION, WILL FORWARD COMPLETE
DETAILS VIA POUCH. : :
5. FILES 201236761.
“gECRET, ‘


ee

CABLE SECRETARIAT D1 SSEWNNATION

FERRON/uaLT woLtTtED,

QUES Uae eonenees ver

8a TOBI
ee: He ocroBen 169

PLEASE CORRECT THE GARBLED PORTION(S) OF THIS MESSAGE TO
READ AS FOLLOWS:

JAS INFO ADDEE.

R CREM ehutB sUilan, nobaroe, Stet. TeTTy

RES



SECRET.

Culef, Soviet Bloc Division
Chief, Western Henisphere Div. ton
Chief of Station,

Cale? of Station,
AEDTOP BIOGEIESIS

Transeitted herewith for 4

These documents wese obtained by B! x8.
firet transited
jen 8 Septerber ad Fererence Alitalia flight from

, four packages to lucal “goviet Eabassy officials wh bearded.

- QBIOGENESKS did not identify the officials.) They
wetransited Argentina on 15 September via ELM 792 from

‘Gantiage te Hontevides and azain youained om the nlare.

boarded te deliver ges.
iret ting that iknow EGE,”
bas met a courier flight. The-wexp.

cee jatiet ia the fact thas
(201.779979), the suspest KOS efficer whe usually

§0b, Guigered a serious heart attack en 19 July and
fan beon confined to his apartsent sizee,)

H/T on Btated

OBCRET pane

ante scsuoctenpscesrennqmmmnsnanes sremcamceetnt teen

Distribution:
3 «= C/ESR, Wattece hfe : :
8 = Coa, We attech Ti.
0/-3 3671
as coy ey naeertnth Hama-s0ore AY Soptenber 1908
YPM 48 ot078

901. M
Sitasnanenvent BATCTR and

ay

o


wresact rome
‘TOTAL cores:

oma: WA

une 9481 ECRET

ae
pars «9 -“Sept 1969

sae ie aetna CD rue mcs rus no,

in 13 dai

: RYBAT aquarte REDLEG BIOGENESIS AELANYARD — :

i (IN 37091)

"RECOMMEND a — LINE SIX 10 INSURE IT NOT COMING
Grwmacr wire AC LINE, ALSO cuEcK LINE [0 DETERMINE IP ABNORMAL



aug E ne lot

wom. T ves Ono

FORGE VO PLE NO. }
vues Cheer ro eranenO) orornor CF} sto.

Qae Fy ine .
ke 39 here OY LP cfefTTe: i ’
SECRET 6414812 SEP 69 CITE S15 } :

\-"" DIRECTOR INFO

<_ | RYBAT AQUATIC REDTOP BIOGEWESIS AELANYARD “US e9 IN
'REFSS A usr. L/9230 37021 -
CN By 087
on 483
& By 442 G16509) i

£.. DIRECTOR 90984

“Ay REF A WORK COMPLETED. INSTALLATION REPORT

"Weu.ovs via Pouch. ie

fe DURING, ROUTINE LP INSPECTION MORMING 3

4 SEPTEMBER FOUND LINE BIX SWA-SA DEAD AGAIN. SAME.
‘PROBLEM REPORTED THREE TIMES PREVIOUSLY VIA REFS B,

, @ AND De PER REF & FIRST TWO FAILURES DETERMINED BY

=

ae

MEADQUARTERS TO BE PROBABLY RESULT. ELECTRICAL STORM.
se BS GIUCE THIS OCCURS ALWAYS ON LIME SIX WITH
OWE ADDITIONAL FAILURE ON LIWE SEVRN PERHAPS SON
" OTMER INFLUENCE PRESKWT SUCH AS POSSIBLE LIWE SHORT,
‘ Eto, ckawar oF uwTP-9 DID HOT ALTER SITUATION.



Cow." SrCRETARAT Quarmariews

Cuansvewro messeat Jomm cones ROUTING ANCOR MATULS- SEEN BY
c BaRTORTUNIT HOTS

SECRET ccwsterinmsn
(When Fillea in) Semmes
REPRODUCTION OF THS COPY PROIBITLO.

woes O ve. O no

LARBIPY TO PLE NO.

REP TO PLE NO.
wo Chaar. to.

grancnt) ossrnoy T) e10

PAGE 2 pois SECRET
5. PILE 4-137-102/2 aD T4-128-221.
‘ ae

BECRET : ie nee eearneicaet

ariel



we mesacr I

SECRET ._.
(Wan Filled ta)

“Caste SECRETARIAT Disseernstivn
Ca

SECRET 2521402 AUG 69 CIT sors
DIRECTOR Who'd nI0S27 a -
RELTOP BIOGENESIS =~ nm 2 ‘4
fe BIOGENESIS reroutsL__ CdS ‘ i t
FROM HORE LEAVE 2< AUGUST F 4 7
a 8M Joweanteg | .
“pon USSR 17 AUGUST vITH VIVE | -

faints

_seftstatven ano vena FORWARDED. SINCE CONTAIN
We ]reentay VISAS DO ROT HNOW WHETHER TRAVEL PCS OR

MORE LEAVE. eae se’
Be PILES aot-garaas, 2ei-2grai AND 201-7R179A.

“8 ce et, BEING Sak Icey.



sieaeerase

svedeey ro cere me
a

OP eee

OOF TO OO Oe ee ee

#—- |O rs so conn 0) seri en OO

TILE, VR <feul: sb sa linsa sa sftt2_ shat — ne cfpia cha E ;

i

SECRET 1219542 aua 69 cite 0947
: INFO DIKE“ToR
(5 RYBAT aquatic REDLEG BLOGENESIS AELAWYARD
sees seen 9230

to MKSPIEC FORWARDING FOUR EACH ADDITIONAL TWO
 MUNRED OWN AN-22 POTTED WICROPHONES AMD FouRg xacH
AGC-2 KEL PREAMP SYSTORS FOR TEST AND POSSIBLE USE.
RASPICE SUPPLY DOT-3 TRANSFORMERS DEPLETED HOWEVER CUR
RecoRDS Siid*tWeLvz DOT~3's PREVIOUBLY SHIPPED WHICH SHOULD
o 10 BIOGENESIS-1¢. Possession.”
8. DiLR-4-137- 10878 am 14s 120-2B1

inuein? (Bes :

3
he

Bil at



DISPATCH

Chief, Soviet Bloc Division

Chief of Station
RYBATREDTOP Af
Transmittal of Ta
Acro SR «ERIN

References; A, HABA-20415, dated 27 March 1969
B. LABW-11445, doted 21 April 1969

pes

1. Forwarded under sepnrate cover are two AZLANYARD
tapes covering 26, 27 and 28 July 1969. The recording for
the 28th runs through the last half of the first tape and
all of the second; it involves a conversation between
AEBCOK ond 201-268170 regarding the furmer's experiences
during hic recent home lenve.. We should very much
Qppreciute having Hendquarters' monitors review this
conver,ation of 28 July and forwnrd to
complete a transcription as pussible. ce

is finished the tapes may be destroyed.

2, In reference B Headquarters suggested that
of AELANYARD be forwarded tri-annually. Since we have begun
forwarding the most interesting AELANYARD tapes for transcrip~
tion at Headquarters, we assume there is no longer any need
to transmit routine samplings of the initinl BIOGENESIS

uct . ;
z ae tha? Msgs

Attachments:
& Tapes U/8/0

Distribution:
3» O/8BD, w/attachs U/8/C
& = C/WD, w/o attacha

rs cart

v '201-296701
714-120-321



Boutin sana men a eH

BECRE a ANG ®9 CITE Saol ‘
DIRECTOR IFO pel ce 7

RYBAT AQUATIC REOTOP BIOGEWESIS ATLANYARD : 3:
REF: A. saanQa e519)

Be 81s (W\V3-13)

ssa6(wiostes)

ie APPROX 19 AND 2@ auGuST| BLOGERESIS- 14 AND
“WIS HELPER PLAW ENTER ACCESS APARTMENT ABOVE TARGET TO
“REPLACE WIKES PER REF B WITH TWO HUNDRED OHN MN-22°S AND
BALANGE, PLOHOLES IF POSSIBLE. NAVE APARTMENT OVWER'S
PERMISSION AWD HE VILL BE OUT OF TOWN, WILL TEST LINES
WITH AND WITHOUT Sua: 3A FREANPTS USING ANPEX ABD SOHY
fizconorns Be LP. {Du EXCESSIVE FAILURE SWA-SA HERE, Presa
tant TWSTALLATION WITHOUT PREAMPS IF POSSIBLE) (J

WILL MOVE TO LP DURING TESTING PERIOD
PLEASE POUCH oe Six EACH



rye SECRETARIAT DiSseMinat “
“SESS

mn

SECRET 262006
DIRECTOR

vw cire;

-REDTOP BIOGENESIS ee 2b M1670
ra

nef (asa ¢ 47.778)

je BIOGENESIS TRAVEL CONTROLS REPORT
RIVED ALONE 25 JULY VTA
DO NOT KNOW WHEN OR IF ee
"Ge FILES 281-256781.
“‘grcRet



SECRET 2412372 JUL 69 CITE KRILANDER ACTING)
(info birector ine

RYBAT REVTOP BIOGENESIS
REF soes( 10
git, UNTOR ADVISES THAT
AT BORDEAUX IS KNOWN TO HAVE MADE FREQUENT TRIPS TO EAST:
EUROPEAR COUNTRIES DURING 1956-61 PERIOD FoR WORNAL COMMERCIAL
PURPOSES, . roan ‘
- fe THERE ARE NO S1ATION traces. . I.

” 8. Foxd 201-256701.

ereRer

pened dn 6909 12.4"
‘safe 0



Action Required: See Paragraph 5.
Reference : HABW-11473, dated 5 June 1969

4. Whe detailed analysis of the Station's operational
efforts against some of the priority FJSTEAL targets and the
suggestion that perhaps AEBOOR offcred the best immediate
op3rational promise and warranted special attention wae re-
viewed and discussed by the interested officers; it should
come as no suvprise to Headquarters that there is really lit~
tle divergence of opinion, not only as to the priority tar-
get, but also insofar as operational approach and conduct is
concerned. We would like to correct the apparent Headquarters
impression that the Station was negligent ‘in the follow-up of
operational opportunities and was waiting for the FUSTEALHBS
to take the initiative insofar as future contacts were con-
gernod. We believe Station efforts have been as agyrvavive
a8 possible in the existing oycrational climate, and if we
were remiss, it was in faiiing to report in detail the various
negative results of what we consider normal operational efforts.

2. ABBOOR was selected ae one of the priority Station
targets for the simple reason that three officers had direct
access ts him through Identity; once he accepted the invitee
tion to Paul W,. LEVERONS's homo he was moved up to the top of
the priority list ainoe 4¢ was hoped that continued and rather
frequent contest could te maintcined for assessment and operas
$ional purposes. Evory reasonable vffort was made to follow.

Attachment
Identity Uso.
Distribution

= Ohief, SBD w/att USO
$: Ohief, WHD watt Use



CONTINUATION OF SEASEIFIENTION
DISPATCH as
SECRET HABA--2C633

‘up ‘the first social contact (experience has shown that she
FUJSTEALers he12 will not take the initiative and must be
netively pursued) but™a number o: conversations (boch face
to face and by phone) ended up in the vague pvomise on the
part of Subject that "we must get together soon". In the
interim the Station tightened the coverage of AEBOOR Ly
utting AELANYARD on.a 24-hour-a-day basis for a little over
wo weeks and by conducting full coverage survedllarce for
jout one week, Our ressoning behind this acting was as fol-
.lows: . such intensive coverage would possibiy rermit us to
spot a likely place where we could inject an access agent;
~At would give-us-a-better-"feel" of his daily activity; 1t
might uncover one or more of his clandestine contacts. The
“xvesults of the effort;-while far from solving our problems,
did give us a wealth of information which should help us jn
_.. OMY, Operational -planning-once AEBOOR ‘returns to his station.

3. The. distaff side of the target was not ignored, and
Nina T. MARGANDE managed to spend some time in conversation
____...With AFBOOR's wife during: a- get-together of Identity on 21
~ May 1969. Asa resuls of this meeting the groundwork has been
ld for a follow-up. by MARGANDE; despite the fact that. the
wife ‘was at first oool and then lukewarm vo the idea of getting
_..bogether for a shopping excursion, we-will-do everything poue
bate Bible to bring such a meeting about and try have MARGANDE become
the wife's "confidante', if this 1s possible. (In order to per-
iv MARQANDE to pursue this contact in the most natural manner
and to givo her a.chance to meet and assess other FJSTEALer
“wives, she has also become a member of Identity.)
Sls Peer renrates

4s Untit his ‘departure. for home leave AEBOOR was the
¥. pins PISTEAL: target and will-continue in-this position after
“his return until we oan reach a decision regarding future ao-
,bion. There is one thing that should be kept in mind, however;
~ and that is the fact that all of the FUSTEALers are reserved in

their dealings with members of LNPURE. It seems that it js pus,
---=-~@ible to get some of the FISTEALers to accept an invitatioa, even

to a private home, but to try to develop such a contact into @

gontinuing sooial relationship. ie @ much harder proposition.
Leland 0. KROULD's experience with 201-313506 followed this pat-
$ern, and despite KROULD's efforts to continue ard follow up what
seemed to be the beginning of a good relationship, nothing cane
of: sj ‘Stephen M. OARSIDE twioe tried to utilize a natue
val opportunity ‘to get together with 201-820310, only to be put
off, a6 he-was An ‘an approach to 201-(25485; Paul W. LEVERONE
“:.teded on several occasions to arrange a dinner with Ft ea 7

dese ORLY -t0-0e “pub “o. this deopite the fact thac 201-1899
: paintesng. extensive social contacts with non-WOLADY types).
AOL -has: rassed’an interest in social contact, and

ginoe he is ype who should not have to check out and
mati ObbAineppro ‘or hig Booial activity, we hope thet he will

“not confciin us olusely to the pattern. This 18 not the time
“er place. to examino-the: possible reasos for the FISTFALer at=
eitudos 46 4s merely mentioned to demonstrate that we are fighting
vey pf UpnbLl. (although inot:@:hopelecs) battle, @ battle that we dns
“end to win by fair me or foul, i i

sane

0%



aint i =

ms STATON Perec mor irratarts,
CONTINUATION OF

Easraueae secre | ana-aceo3  _.)

5. he value of the PCQ (a copy was forwarded with
Reference) in assessment of target individuals is readily
oppavent, and it is requested that ten English and Spanish
language copies he forwarded to the Station for use in our
assessment program.

20|-2-36 70/
eons



|

oe fa
SECRET

USC Atkachitent to HABA-20695

IPENTIDY;

Sse, BRORED
40 HABA 2.009%,
eet

