# 104-10216-10260

## Page 1

104-10216-10260.

THIS COPY IS NUI

FOR RELEASE

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

ROUTING

2 !

FROM JMWAVE

ACTION IW

4 1

7

8

INFO

DOP, ADOP, SOO 4, DO/H, CA 2, CA/PEG, CA/PROP, CI/OPS, C1/IC 2, FI, FI/D,

F1/INT 6, WH/SA 12, HH 8, AF 11, WE 6, VS, FILE

•.:

SECRET 1123392

DIR INFO

LANT PACY BARR CITE WAVE EREA

INTEL (TYPIC ]

12 DEC 64 IN 41278 8323Z

Efizit=

imncii

SUPDATA: ANSPILL-I SW DE DATED 28 HOVERSER ISE4 RECEIVED 188

DECEMBER. INFO PROVIDED I8i ÉNSIER TO HES REGUIREMENIT CONTAINED

IN DIR 62888. FIELO CO:MERIT PARA CKE FROIM

3355 (IN 65914) (1963).

PARA TWO FROM SOX. RID: NO IIIDEX. FILEC: 8123392

REPORT CLASS SECRET CONTPOLLEO CISSEM NO FOREIGH DISSEM

COUNTRY: CUBA/ALGIERS

SUBU: ALLEGED ROTATICI CF CUSAN TROOPS FRCIA ALGERIA

DOI: PRIOR TO 28 NOVEMÜER 19U4 PADA: UNITED STATES, MIAMI

(18 DECEMBER 1964) UFE-531:8

SOURCE: A UNIVEPSITY GRADUATE WITH SCIENTIFIC TRAINING WHO

RETAINS MINOR BUSINESS IPTERESTS IN HABAÑA ANO PINAR DEL RIO.

IW COMMENT:

NH/SÃ

WH/REG

12

AF/REG

AF/1/RE

AF/

41 WE/P

16/ WE/3/RE

LELEASING LMO

Cdusa ellingua

-NS

2

2

A.uLASH-/ bie

TDCSD3-315/01651-64

X / ROUTINE

DATE

DISTRIBUTED:

BASED ON UFG 6348

PRIORITY

12 DEC 1964

13432

NP/AMSPILL-1

UAISON *

SEERET

-UTOMATIC

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Capy Na

---

## Page 2

14-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

simiT

FROM

ACTION:

INFO

?1

3

PACE THO

1N 41278

SOURCE MÃS FURNISEO SEME LISEFUL FEMORIS SINGE I9ÉE SASED ON PERSONAL

OBSERVATICH ANO IIFERILTICA FRCIA HAS CONTACIS, SOURCE'S REPORTING

HAS BEEN RELIAJLE.

"3#

IW COMMENT:

TOCS

I ROUTINE

BASED ON

I PRIORITY

RELEASING I WO:

DATE DISTRIBUTED:

UAISON:

SEEN

RELUDES FROMAN

MiNG

ANS

REPUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFIN, IS PROHIBITED.

B SIFICATION

_ Copy Na

....

---

## Page 3

14-00000

SEERET

CENTRA: INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

Intelligence Information Cable

• ROUTINE

COUNTRY CUBA/ALGERIA

DATE OF PRIOR TO 20 NOVEMBER 1964

INFO.

TD CS08-315101651-64

DISTR 12 DECEMBER 1964

• SUNECT

ALLEGED ROTATION OF CUBAN TROOPS FROM ALGERIA

FAIENCE UNITED STATES, MIAMI (10 DECEMBER 1964)

SOURCE

REF

IN 48278

HELD REPORT NO. UFG 6348

•APPRAISAL A UNIVERSITY GRADUATE WITH SCIENTIFIC TRAINING WHO RETAINS MINOR BUSINESS

INTERESTS IN HABANA AND PINAR DEL RIO.

SOURCE HAS FURNISHED SOME USEFUL

REPORTS SINCE 1962 BASED ON PERSONAL OBSERVATION AND INFORMATION FROM HIS

CONTACTS.

- 1. ON AN UNSPECIFIED DATE FRIOR TO 2$ NOVEMBER 1964, THE CUBAN

VESSEL, THE MATANZAS, DEPARTED FROM THE PORT OF MARIEL. THE SHIP

CARRIED TWO HUNDRED OFFICERS AND TROOPS WITH WEAPONS AND PROVISIONS.

THESE TROOPS WERE GOING TO ALGERIA TO PERMIT THE ROTATION OF TWO

HUNDRED OFFICERS ANS TROOPS THAT HAVE BEEN IN ALGERIA SINCE THE OUT-

BREAK OF THE BORDER PROBLEM BETWEEN ALGERIA AND MOROCCO. (FIELD

COMMENT: A FORMER HICT-LEVEL ALGERIAN GOVERNMENT OFFICIAL REPORTED

ON 13 NOVEMBER 1SE3 THAT, ACCORDING TO AHMED KAID, MINISTER OF

TOURISY, A MUTUAL AID TREATY SETWEEN ALGERIA AND CUBA WOULD BE

CONCLUDED AT THE END OF 1963. THE TREATY

, WOULD PROVIDE FOR AN EXCHANGE.

SECRET

STATE/IN*

DIA

AJAY/ACH

NAVY All ICS

AD/CI 2

FBI

SECDES

NSA NIC M

IGNS

TREASURY

USIA OCI ONE OCE ORR DO

COAST GUARD

---

## Page 4

GECREF

(MANS PLAIN)

JO-FINDCH-0050 PATERER-DE

TDCS 08-315/01651-64

PAGE

41278

2

OF MILITARY GARRISONS EETWEEN THE iNO COUSTRIES.)

2. (FIELO COMMENT: ACCORDINE TO A USUALLY RELIABLE SOURCE THE

MATANZAS DEPARTED FROM CUBA CAL I NOVENSER 1964 FOR ALGIERS AND ORAN.

THE SHIP DEPARTED FROM ALGIERS ON 3811ON BER EN ROUTE TO HABANA)

3. FIELD DISSEM: CONAWESTFOR, CINESO, CINCLANT. (ALSO SENT

ALGIERS.)

SECRET

END OF MESSAGE

CLASSIFICATION - DISSENMATION CONTRORS

L

---

