# 104-10192-10208

## Page 1

104-10192-10208

"т..

HQS

REPORT COVER SHEET

SECRET

PROCESSING ACTION

•PORT 0O.

COTER ANCES

WARRIO SOR PHOENIN!

JHWAVE

Alexandor

DATE OF SPORT

UFG 7466 :

18 dug 65..

XX

OFA DATA HEPORTED SEPARAIELY

CS DISSEMINATION

John Co JARBELLULa

AMTOD 1

FIELO DISTAISUTICH

TPCS' DISIEMINATICN

4

1 cy. each to Miami rops. of:

00/C

CONKWESTPOR)

Stato,

F.B.Ie,

I& NS,

Custong,

Panama City (for CINCSO)-Town Parlorder Patrol, U.S.6.0.

16-7

(HEATAL DATA

TYPIC

Source:

ANTOD-l from AMDOG] in reports datod 13 and 16 August

ANDOG-I receivod the information from Joso

Ricardo RABEL

Nunez®

The information In the oponing Flold Commont Is from UFG 7458.

Please add the CSDB number.

Fiold Comment 1 is from AMDOG-1, verbally, on 14 August®

Group

Excluded from

Automatic Downgrading

and Declassification

REPORTS

RUG L$ 19550

HAS DI COPY

CS COPY

19-300 - 4

3.0. 1467 :

1808

1/RV

---

## Page 2

€:

FIELD INFORMATION REPORT

GRADINA OF SOURCE A Fimattoy relialito.

melanet

D. And visually ceriatle.

¡Apulied to untested de insuricienty

APPRAISAL UP CONTENT.

8. Confemed by olner lodopendent and rible sourcel & Probably true. &i Possiblylva. A Dounitul &e Probably

BI CAMANY EN NATAL

COXFIDENTINL

CONTROLLED DISSEN

COUNTRY Cuba

SUBJECT Continued Dissonaton In the

Cuban Rovolutionary Junta

REPORT NO.

DATE OF REPORT 17 August 1005

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

DATE On 18 tO 14 Augua: 1965

INFO.

PLACE &

United States, Miant

•DATE ACQ (13 tO 16 August 1965)

MALUATED INFORMATION, BOUR

UFG 7466

A young Cuban emigre who has been trained in information collee

Ills past roporting has boon accurate but lacke dopth.

The Informion in this report as recelved from another Culan

entere who la la touch with members of the Jure.

Field Comment!

The same source receutly reported that the VENUS.

• 110-100t Dont which belongs to the JURe, with two Boston Malera

aboard, arrived in Miant fron the Dominican Republic on 9 August

1905

Manuel Ray Rivero, leader of the Jule,

arrived In Miant

from Puerto Rico by air on 11 August to make

an effort to roach

an understanding with the men aboard the VENUS.

Ray aaid that

ho had given Jone Ricardo Rabel Nunez, commanding officer of the

VENUS, $T30 (U.S.) for expenses of the boat, but that Ravel had

used the money to come to llanl inatead.

Rabel said that by

bringing the boats to Mlaal ho had denonstrated that he was in

complete command of the boats, and expressed his deflance of any

*Ifort' on Ray's part to board the vessel.

Rabol said that as

soon as the engines on the three boats are repairod he ill

take the bonte back to the Dominican Republic.: TDCSDB315/00238-65

dated 27 January 1965, and IDCSD1-315/00539-65 datod 16 February,

both fron the same source, reported Rabel's plane to commandeer

the VENUS and tho two whalers.

I. On 12 August 1985, Jose Ricardo Ribel Nunez, commanding officer

of the VANUS, a boat which belongs

tbe Junta Revolucionaria

Cubana (JURS, Cuban Revolutionary Justa),

il August.1

Ray brought another man vio be

now captain of the vessel. Rabel said that to told Ray that he

CONTIDENTIAL

COUTROLLED DISSEN

€ROUP 1

et handed to outs

DISTRIDUTION

---

## Page 3

CONTROL-SU DISSEN

-2=

JC 7166

would not rosign as captain; that 1f Ray wanted the VENUS he

rould havo to pay him (Rabol) and the ship's crew $30,000

which was orud to thom for back wages.

Babol told Ray that

unlosa ho roceived the money he would

keep the boat; that he

would sink it bofore turning it ovur to Bay.

2. Altor talking ulth Rabel," the man who vas to have boon the nei

captala rofused to bocome involved.

3..

Babel said that Ray's statemont about the $720 was not true.

According to Rabel,:

the last money he rocelved was $320 (U.3.)

In Fobruary 1965, and that monoy was from the Vonezuela dolega-

tion of the JURE, DOL frOM RAY.

Since that time the mon aboard

the VENUS bave lived on money

they vere able to collect or

borror from Cubans who live in the Dominican Bopublie.

....

Rabel snid he could not permit. Ray to continue to use for

propaganda purposen the fact that he had a boat and crew. Ray

had maled other captains by telling them to Join the fight

againat Fidel Castro Rux, then having them spond nonths of thelr

lives doing nothing, and bill atarving aboard a boat. Rabel

said 'ho planned to use the VENUS to take action againat Castro,

which Bay was not doing.

Leaders of the JURE planned to

not on 12 Auguat to discuan

ousting Ray as loador of the JURE.

attond: Onorio Davila Santana, Gorainal Rivas.

Allan, Lorenso Buiz, label, Manuel Varola Castro, Huvert Tatos

Araluce, and Ignacio Castro,?

On 13 August Rabel wald that no agreement concorning the VANUS

reached at the meting.

He now plana to take legal

action to got oither the ownership of the VENUS or the 830,000

(U.S.) In back wigos for himself and the crew.

Rabel added

that whon the boat le logally theirs they will return to the

Dominican Republic. where thoy havo been promised help from the

govornment of Antonio Imbert Barrera.

Field Comment:

Ray was reported to be planning to roturn

To Puerto Rico on Il August,

the day ho arrived. However,

he was still in Miami on la August.

Source Comment: Davila,

Rivas, Perez and Ruiz will probably

back Raj's continuing as loader of the JURE. Rabel, Varola;

Natos and Castro will favor Ray's oustor.

CONFIDENTIA

ONTROLLED DISS

---

