# 104-10062-10062

## Page 1

1164-10062-10062

10160 0.00010.0700009111

File ..

Rchards,

New Jetscy

August 19, 1060

SECRET

ESPIONAGN - CUNA

NK T=1,

a Cuban refurce who is in a position to

furnish reliable information, advisca as

folloys:

• Onl

1959, the souice was contacted

by telephone at his place of

emplovnent in

requeslod the source lo moot him at

1969

Avenue,

Brons, New York.

The source went to designated

meet area ou

1969, arriving at appioximately

No attenpt to)

contaci source was made during that interval.

1969, source's wife received a

telephoue call

at the source's home, on

fron an individual who did not identify himself.

A message was left for source which instructed him to

appear at the previously mentioned neet location at

¡ 1969.

The source arrived at the meet site at the

Intersection of

Bronx, New York, at approsinately

was Immediately contacted by

whereupon he

who had been

waiting in a parked car on

and source proccoded on foot a short disiance toard the

took out fron a snall handbag which

he was carrying a

Tape Fecorder shich

measured approximately 9 inches by

inches by 3

inches.

The tape recorder vas placed between the tho ou the grasg

as they talked.

The source observed apricrimately 20 suall

reels of tape. in the bag carried by

(this sens to be a different

SECRET

GROUP

201-516438

source than the press

Excluded fron automatic

downgrading ind

Cuz-47 kha declassification

535-00-4%

#5615

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECKWT®

Durine the ensuing conversation thich lasted

or four scols of tape utilized by

the source counted thy reel

would record for about one hour or approximately thirty

minutes on each side.

whose

true identity had

not been recaled to the source, icquested him to call

h]m

Refortino to & redort prenared. br source

and

1969

stated that the report lad been

poorly prepared and lached necessary detaile

He directed

the source to be more specific and thorough in answering

any questions for future reports.

proceeded to review with the source

the information furnished by source in the previous report.

was quich to cite any small discrepancy between

the information contained in the report and that which was

furnished by the source during their conversation.

queried the source in connection with

individuals in Miami with whom the source had been familiar.

The questions concerning these individuals included their

current addresses, general background and sympathies,

activity in Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) operations,

etc.

displayed a photograph of (First Name

Unknown

and asked source if he recognized hin.

was described as male, of Caucasian race, who

appeared

to be Cuban, 32-35 years old, husky build, dark

hair and dark: eyes.

The source could not recognize the

individual photographed.

made several inquiries about

a non-existent individual nho the source intentionally

Included in his prior report as a principal agent for CIA.

The source advised

that he met [

I on only

two or three occasions and knew nothing more specifically

about him.

While the source was ansfering a question

concerning an ludividual named

referred to

inadvertently

which the source

Knew as

the true nane of

i1s known by

to have been previously connected with CIA

source of Cuta-20

SECRET

2

---

## Page 3

14-00000

SECRET

operatious

j.n

as Nell as the Miami

he Was

especially intercated in whother the source knew any

dates

of forthconing infiltration suns into Cuba in which

might be involvei.

mentioned

and asked

the source

i"

is the brother

of

He further questioned the source whether or not

is still à ClA instructor in the use of explosives.

The fact that

was in any lay connocted with instruction

In the use of explosives as never mentioned previously

by source

in his report and

must have been obtained by

Irom other sources

The source happened to mention

2.

nickname for a past tean menber for infiltration runs

Anto Cuba.

Referring to

Espinosa intcrrupted

and stated

Source had

forgotion the true name of

and said that this

Identity must have been arnished

to

through

other sources.

asked of the source was whether

a colleague of source, fas still operating

The source replied he did

not know, inasmuch as

he had been too long removed from Miami area to be accuraie

in his reply.

made inquiries on the following

Individuals with whom

the source had bech thought to

associate in liam area; spocifically, he manted to know

any background information and whether or not the individuals

were being directed by CIA:

Otto (Last Name Unknoin), previously of

operational Interest

to CIA in the Miami area.

In the Mind ter soute, prevdously a principal arent

Edgar Sopo, active in anti-Castro rad1o

broadcasts

do Cuba fron the Miami area.

Manuel Artines, a leader in Bay of Pigs

Invasion and subsequently connected with anti-Castro

organizations, including MR.

3

SECRET

---

## Page 4

14-00000

SECIDED

Dandored inciltratdon onerations

1nc0 Cute vith aouicu.

sonico tao to aticupe to sale coatect rachi

moonsen li sadiested that

to cot nay

informeron of valus won in tho Wirci &rc0.

Di. 108001 La1220a Salvucedo, Deviously

attachod

• novomonto and allogod to ba

of aporational value to CIA.

_known by

particinated

in CIA discoted oporatious

Scurce

was dircuicd to appostically contict

tion of value portaining to CIA activity when in the Miand

a1'C0+

caricad Gosvales Leachin, Involvc vdth

extiltration runs. iron Cuba.

He is thougri by the couice to be a comunist.

Source furnished little Inforation iegarding

the above individuals and used as an cacuse that althoug

ho was on close terra with nost of thom, he has had ditto

or no contact with theu since lesving the liani area.

Of all the individuals nared by

appeared most concerned in obtaining suy infornation on

Both individuals

nad boch associates on the source in ravana die

had worked with the source in lavane. He advised

that although both are lnoin to be anti-castro, he did not

feel either had any coancction

with CIA.

SECRET

---

## Page 5

14-00000

SECher

on nd lotos thies occard0a3g

Gho couros abort the dosses of flucagy

silend

Cd the Jacter's

ena sauree enorerod netiriceively and carlainod that ho

Ind attcricd sight teloo?

2I'C3.

1as1l00eion

partacrocd mich mid not bacn nontionca proriously

by the rcuicee

to scorca to be vory vell preparca end

gave the inpression thee ho know the answors to all the

questione alcotco at the scurce. Ho sas interostod in

any Dichlons that

the scurces toss night have expericaced

Then chtching and Loaring Clon during Cl opcrationse

Ile Inguired about the control nothods of CiA

Infiltration deans, whether nonbors of the toous vore

ever curveilled in the balted states, the chain of contaid

and to 100r toon Leadera

roports

The souico

answered that each rober vas responsibio culy to hitsel.

Concerne cocurity mules en the nothor vessel during

Inistration and colitiration opurations,

the source Stated

that cach tom Tonec vas-renponsiblo foi the perfomance

of his toon and oach toan renbor vas held responsible. for

each pioce of causmacht Issuca to hide

source was requested to identily any nother

rossel, the bases fron wich they oportie, and the crow

membore.

The source siated he could not answer these

questions dic to the lonath of tina passod cince the source

sas comiceted with ClA operations in liiant.

The source to further questiongd regarding the

motheds of infiltration Into Cuba, the role of the nother

Interrediary versols, landing crafts, and the

Apparently

noting that the sourco was not furnishing full details of

the question, l

1 Interrupted

and requested the

source to vcrify

Boxplanation. L

/ proceeded

to relato concisely the plons and nothods utilized in CIA

orerations.

5

SECRET

---

## Page 6

14-00000

The hate iden it

Asked how tears were able to bulld shois

and lIving gunters in the mogrove cucups inside of

Cuba Mithout boing noticed by matives in the sine arca,

the souree replico thit everyone in the vicinity of the

1nf3lintio: point sore ssupathetso to the teaus.

The

sauce explained that one person in charac of an ouscration

post appirinately mue mile any fron oue infiltration

point cooparated with the toans and was later talen out

of Cuba by the source.

ached it there are still any collaborators

or persous sympachetic to the united States Gorcinment on

the Cuban coust with whon the iniiltratous noried.

Source

replied that to his knowledge all those who vere of

assistance have boch cither jailed or killes.

Vas also concorned about the

employuent

0J. ClA personucd in the Heys 011

of Florida

and asked the source as to thy cin would maintain porsonne

in that aben. Source stated he did not know unless it

was to guard

agalnst infiltration by Cuben fishing vessels.

Questioned again about his reasons for

cooperatins

the source replicd that he is

an individual

couplcicly indepondent of any political

belief.

he said that he mas initially motivated against

the regine of Fidel Castro because he had seen his parents

worl: hard and save

for 40 ycars in order to afford a few

luxurios in their later lives, only to see the Cuben

Governnont intervene

and cliid possession of everything,

including their home. He further explained that it

appears the United States will never force Castro out of

Cuba but that the fact remaing he is Cuban and Cuba is

He said he is willing to cooperate only

to the extent that his parents vill receive fair treatment

fron the Cuban Govcrincht.

had information thas the source nas

suspected

at ong

tiue by Cubans in Wlani of possibly

being connected with the Cuban Go2, thich information

caused a United States Government Investigation.

SOuICe

replied that this vas probably due to his nurber oi

successful. runs into Cuba without incident rhich prompted

others to suspoct he had to have connections aith G-2.

6

SECRET

---

## Page 7

14-00000

On and dully

ihe amoe tos out of contact tith CIA for

ten days which added surther to the possibility that he

had cathoi cotcoted co was vorting with Ge

Kost of the

more vere prolled honovel when he submatiod to & CiA

11e detector toot thich rcoulied negatively. he credited

his ability to avoid ammuchos and misfortune to the experience

he had an infiltration crercices

as vall as exichsive

CIn talente

Approitatoly one half lous of the meeting

between the soles aud l

Jentaliod accortalling the

proficioncies of the souice in the traints of acholitions

radto operction seapocry, seamanship, cleo, thich he

I'eceived fi°om

CIAE

Noiling vas montioned coneorning any

intentions by

to utilize the source in connection

with any of his previously mentioned lields of training.

The source inforned

that he had bach

contacied since ticir last nectina by

en anti-Castro organdantion.

The source has boen

designated by

organisation.

It vas caplained to

serplattle told tary suctrat of the

coals or

ultimately

Hat New Yoil City by

means as jot noù disclosed to the source. The source tas

Instructed that in the future he is to spand as nuch time

as possible with

in deteruining that organization's

plans of action agalust the

and Government of Cuba.

At different times throughout the meeting,

nas observed to lean back on the ground which

exposed a reapon tucked inside his trousers at the raist,

which was described by the source to be a black

JAutonatic Pistol.

Intervich,

At a point of about tno hours througi the

toos the source on foot to the

_, where each bought

Fountain drink. While the source sat at the bar,

richt into one of the tro telephone booths

located

the rear tall of the luncheoncttt.

Fe was in the

booth about 30 seconds but did not male a call. He did

not indicate his rcason for eniczing the booth. Finishing

their drink, they returned

7

SECRET

---

## Page 8

14-00000

SPORES

pasmt ors aomec noted sor the dirat tara & pardon ox

renalcd in the won trough the chiato recting

color 100r0dl80n00 dá the neating.

Tho

intrueled the source io piigare in

NCHOnt {0M:

me araman do tho cocond portion di tha

sunched to the lattor on

1969.

Tie ELONC

du donore iron dro to ba slaced 311

The counce do to redon to the

ashod the source if he vould le

in do to land for a ronth in an effort to

contnot fricace and caroseciates of CIA.

Thic source

stricd he vis rot,

In sion of his farily and chiloyment

oblicationg, but agroad to no for & chort paried, poasibly

throe or four cayc.

told han tae while in

Hima, the sourco's munshon vould consist of determining

current activitico of the Cia, luchtatico of ray now CIA

toono, arentatico of Gaveralent voscols curtchily in cr

out of service,

CiA indirnetors,

and any cia activatico Including the coplogront of Cubans

to sout! Anerican regiong for CIA operations.

The chie ageed upon on which source will to

to lani sa

11905,

but the counce vill indicate

in tho ropont to be loft at the nozt urop that

he vill delay hic dobitture untill

1060,

to pich up his next bay chech,

and vill not reducn unial

The source 1e0 inotriciod by

1969.

to noot lin following

his return to licH forecy at

, 1000, at tho duterscotion oil

Road and

Rond,

How Jock, at which tino scoults of the

Miani niasion vill be discloned.

8

SECRET

---

## Page 9

14-00000

SECTER'

The porco archooted toot the next bocting

take place in

new dersey, to which susgestion

replied he cors ne lise to schcaule regiangs

in lew dersey unless acolutoly necessaryo

This documnt contalus noither seconmendrisons

not conclunicis on the 1Nle it is the proposiy of the FBI

and is loanod to yous aschoy: ji and lis contonts are

not to bo distributod outside your agency.

9*

SECRET

---

