# 104-10069-10120

## Page 1

1104-10069-10720

SOO-AL PORN NO. 10

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

: Chief, Contact Division

ATTN: Support Branch (Crowley)

FROM : Chief, Minneapolis Office

SUBJECT: Cuban Refugee Group

SECRET SENSITE

777

DAZZ: 31 August 1962

1.

Enclosed are three names provided by

of Cleveland, Ohio.

These apparently are

the leaders of the

iban group which vou and I have discussed in some detail

'or the record,

t in touch with me because we ha

some rather extensive debriefing sessions in 1959, and

apparently he prefers to continue that relationship for the

present.

Headquarters' records will show, however, that

he was interviewed by Gene Rittenburg in September 1960.

2. The Cubans listed on the enclosure are the leaders

of & small group which is shuttling back and forth to Cuba

for the purpose of establishing reception groups, taking in

nedical supplies, ammunition and weapons, and to bring out

other Cubans who wish to leave the country.

As you know

fron our discussions, they are seeking help in the form of

supples,

without

some measure of control by our Agency, and he

understands that no help will be given

agreed to provide the names for Agency consideration. The .

third man on the list is in Cuba at the present time.

specifically requested that we treat any on-the-street

investigation with great care.

3. Please expedite any checking you might do and give

me your expression of interest as

soon as possible.

1s not an exceptionally patient man, and I certainly expect

to receive an inquiry from him in the near future.

I believe

he is genuinely motivated and quite capable, and in his

present position of recruiting executive personnel for

he could be quite useful to the Ageney.

JU

Zimon A Sando I 1849

VERNON R. SANDO

1019/62

7822

VRSando/ 3r

Enclosure

SECRET

SENSITIVE

W4828

05896

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SULT Bhung

Rodrigues

hore no

Service Station

Shores,

Florida

Laurean

15780Eуpetа

nami

street

FlorId:

Son

and

AUgustin

Batiota

actor:

Caneque

Age 12.:

Former July, 20th Comande

Presently in Cuba"

TROVE FORRELEASE 1993

SANSTERCAL ANO, PROCRAN

---

