# 104-10006-10295

## Page 1

1104-10006-102951

FROM: (Requegters name) O

X.WBRASHO

BRANCH

SR/cI/k

TO

TUBE

ROOM

5 c

ROOM

RID/ INDEX

DT - 5

REQUESTER

RID/FILES

DT - 6

REQUESTER

RID/ANALYSIS

GT • 7

RID /201

DW- 6

GT • 6

RID/ INDEX /

LET

IYARALIEL,

SPELLING VARIATIONE

AKA, ALIASES

SECRET

BADGE NO.

BHI TOS

EXTENSION

7735

DATE

INITIALS

1/3)

764

DATE

NAME CHECK AND CONSOLIDATION REQUEST

TRID CONTROL NO.

CHECKING INSTRUCTIONS

SUBJECT TO BE CHECKED

GIVEN NAMES

Inessa

DATA Occupation, sex, CP membership

ssad, engies.

SEX DATE OF BIRTH

PLACE OF BIRTH

ANO PERTHVENT IDENTIFIABLE INFORMATION

CARD REFERENCES ATTACHED

USES RE

USSA

RESULTS OF RID/INDEX CHECK

COMMENT:

No

Ine in fits

INSTRUCTIONS FOR REQUESTERS

IN ALL CASES

Use gummed label; type or print all

entries.

Upon receipt of index card reproductions

draw a green diagonal line across the

items you do not want.

Edit (use green) the reproduced index

cards to indicate:

(a)

cards to be destroyed (mark with

green D and note reason for

destruction)

Examples: document destroyed; duplicate

or less informative than retained in-

formation; information of no CS value.

(b) corrections and additions, inclu-

ding infinity symbol oo when card in-

cludes all facts contained in the

document.

201 CONSOLIDATION

1. Return this form with the card repro-

auctions, also return pertinent documents,

aperture cards and the dossier if a 201 or

the subject exists.

(a)[ Consolidate into

201-

(b) = Open 201 file on subject.

RESTRICTION (If any)

ERSSIGNE

TYES

I NO

Note 1. Records of COI, SSU, OSS and CIG

are in RID/ARD, and those that meet

indexing criteria in CSHB 70-1-1 are

carded in the CS Main Index.

If you

believe there could be additional in-

formation of value in these records,

you must request an Archives Index

search.

OTHER INTERESTED DESKS OR STATIONS

RID

DESK

lote 2. Information concerning foreig

ublic personalities (except mili

tary) may be available in BR/OCR

x7997.

NATE

SIGNATURE OF RECORDS OFFICER

---

