104-10066-10133

la)

Cc

lan

“au : SECRET FRPSo peers

. ‘STAFF
CONFs C/LA=B INFO! ODPD=b,. ‘VR, FILE, DDD=d, “CvCIM4, CHEPSIEGR2,"

C/EUR@=6, C/0G/DMS, C/PCS, SAPCOLL Os “C/PCE/PGLs .0D0/D0r OLCy. .(32/P)

sauswouensascscesseseessese: Oe ee ee ee ee

78 1538613 PAGE 001
TOT? 082334Z .NOV:78: pinecton ‘323590.

cee mwereneneewoneoconecenseencenaeseansenesesepesenerssersccuscesressoneres:
SECRET
STAFF 0623312 DIRECTOR ‘323590 7 \
TOs PRIORITY NFO|
WNINTEL ‘RYBAT KDAFGHAN
REFS: A,

8, 46098

1, HOUSE. SELECT ‘COMMITTEE ON -ASSASSTNATIONS’ (HSCA) HAS:
ADVISED HOS THAT THEY DESIRE INTERVIEW KDAFGHAN/4- (K/ 1) iTN CONNECTION
WITH HIS DUTIES AS ‘PoA. OF THE. PHOTO ‘SURVEZLLANCE' OPERATION (IN: MEXICO
CITY, EMPHASIS WILL: PROBABLY BE ON PERIOD SEPTEMBER=OCTOBER (1963.
WHICH COINCIDES WITH VISIT ‘TO MEKICO CETY OF: LEE: HARVEW OSWALD, .

2. ‘HSCA_INITIALLY PROPOSED TO ‘SEND. THO: INVESTIGATORS :TO: MADRID
TO CONDUCT INTERVIEW OF: K/1 UTILIZING ‘STATE: DEPARTMENT: :COUNTER“PART:
FUNDS SINCE: THEY HAVE)NO FUNDS’ TO BRING K/1: TO U.S: FOR INTERVIEW,
IN VIEW PRESS REVELATIONS CITED REFS, ‘AND TO: PRECLUDE: ANY“ FURTHER
PRESS PLAY WHICH COULD .BE GENERATED BY :-PRESENCE: HSCA STAFFERS JIN
MADRIO/HQS WILLING TO BRING. K/i. TO USS, AT AGENCY ‘EXPENSE TO:FACTLI®
TATE INTERVIEW -AND AVOID ADDITIONAL ‘PRESS -EXPOSURE,~ ‘THIS» “OF :COURSE,
PREDICATED ON K/1 WILLINGNESS TO SUBMIT* TO INTERVIEW BY HSOA,

‘3. W PUBLICITY DIRECTED AT: K/4 ‘AND:-FORMER STATION STAFFERS
REQUEST POSITION ON ‘SERVING AS MIDDLE@=MAN FOR HSCA: WHICH WOULD”
CONSIST OF CONTACTING K/1 AND PASSING. HSCA INSTRUCTIONS 'AND:-FUNDS FOR
TRIP TO U.S, WOULD ALSO WELCOME ANY ALTERNATIVE SUGGESTIONS “TO:
EFFECT INTERVIEW OF K/1,.

: 4, FILEs. 20100288208, -E2, IMPDET.>-
ORIG: C/LA/ST B/W, STURBITTSICE. (RED@9127, GREEN@321509 sCOORD: |.
AC/LA/MGSB (LEHMAN@DRAFT) 3 -OLC' cr CiMrODE eeEOREIB ey ‘PCS /PGL

(SHEPANEK@TELECOORD)# .LA/ST .O/ BEF CINFO)# CVEUR/IB ‘AUTHS
C/LAD (WARREN)? RELs ‘C/EUR (STOLZ), :CL: BY 012180.

END OF, MESSAGE ‘SECRET:

age]
