: 7 UNCLASSIFIED

27 June 1994
MEMORANDUM FOR: Gloria M. Boyd @ DA
|@ DA
SUBJECT: JFK Database Extract for NARA
REFERENCE: ia

Gn June 15, we met with Mike Getsey and Bill Grover of NARA to discuss improvements to the JFK database extract. The following
issues were discussed and will require action. .

. HRG will need to talk witt( Steve Tiley (9713-6629 oncerning the NARA requirement that restricted fields be released to them. — policy

This could result in a modification to the application. rege

X oD ‘HRG should also discuss with Steve Tilley the new exemption codes and determine what effect they will have on the collection. This 2:
could result in a modification to the application. pe qi

AT HRG should print 1 aids on white paper.
: aA
aan A. NARA would like us to provide ar least one keyward(subject) per document and any number of keywords jier gocument. NARA will be
< <7) expanding their keyword field to 250 characters. Both of these items require a modification to the application. (*« (che. Ly SE

ws NARA has preliminary plans to expand the title field from 60 characters to 80 characters; they do not want the field truncated. ‘4 250? )
However, the title will stl be truncated unless HRG modifies their data to 80 character. This will require 2 modification te the : :

application. :
= Gree ( Srodwig of bee & MARA Ald
Qet Se>6. NARA wants the date time use? stampremovedtrom the ID al. This will require a modification to the application. —~ COMA WA
> 7, NARA would like the Opening Criteria to say a true ctiteria gs opposed to the curgent canned statement. This will require a
modification to the application and data populaton by HRG. \o\ ° i q
ain would like the box number and folder information prefixed to the comments field. This will require a modification to the
‘application.

NARA will be faxing their new formats and examples to us this week. | will contact you to schedule a meeting to review the above
issues. Thank you and | can be reached on 36417(S).

Ce: ke DA

hoo € Sheet

UNCLASSIFIED
