# 104-10326-10009

## Page 1

104-10326-10009

MHENO

98-1283498

SENSIND

SECRET

RYBAT

SECRET

-----

FRP :

STAFF

LAL

PAGE:

727-4'

1

ACTION: LA

LIMITED, MDSX

98

1283498

(912)

ODPD,

ASP

INFO: LA/DEFLT, LA/LGL,

LAL

ORMS/LA, RYBAT, FILE, C/LA

(2 /W)

men-==..

PAGE 001

TOR:

2721212 APR

98

LADORECORD,

IN 1283498

27976

SECRET 2721292 APR 98 STAFF

CITE

27976

TO :

PRIORITY DIRECTOR.

FOR: LIMITED DISSEM LA/MO INFO LA/SA, LA

SLUGS: WNINTEL RYBAT

SUBJECT:

POSSIBLE RECONTACT OF

LITAMIL 9

REQUEST FOR FILE REVIEW

REF:

A

B

DIRECTOR 784515

98 1247758

726721 98 0975333

TEXT:

1. ACTION REQUIRED: PLEASE SEE PARA 6.

2

IN SUPPORT OF<JFK ASSASSINATION>REVIEW BOARD EFFORTS,

IS WILLING TO ATTEMPT RECONTACT OF (LITAMIL/9 (T/9) TO OBTAIN

INFORMATION REQUESTED REF A

HOWEVER, PLEASE NOTE THAT,

B PARA 3 IS IDENTICAL TO (T/9,)

HE IS AGING AND POSSIBLY EVEN

THE ONLY FEASIBLE LOCATION FOR RECONTACT WILL BE HIS

HOME, WHERE HE APPARENTLY LIVES WITH THE FEMALE WHO ANSWERED THE

PHONE DURING 26 MAR 98 PRETEXT CALL,

AND WE CANNOT GUARANTEE THAT WE

WILL BE ABLE TO MEET ALONE WITH HIM.

IN ADDITION,

BELIEVES THAT TO THOROUGHLY ANSWER ALL

OF REF A QUESTIONS, THE OFFICER CONDUCTING THE RECONTACT SHOULD

IDENTIFY HIMSELF AS A USG EMPLOYEE AND EXPLAIN THE VERY REAL

POSSIBILITY THAT (/9'S NAME WILL BE EXPOSED IN AN UPCOMING

*DECLASSIFICATION OF DOCUMENTS RELATED TO THE<JFK ASSASSINATION. >

ASSUMING THAI TOROCKAWAY! COMMITTED ITSELF TO KEEPING IS S NAME AND

TOROCKAWAY RELATIONSHIP SECRET,

WE BELIEVE THAT THE LEAST WE CAN DO

IS ALLOW CZ TO PREPARE FOR POSSIBLE RELEASE TO THE PUBLIC BY

ENGAGING IN A FRANK EXCHANGE ON CURRENT REVIEW BOARD PROCEEDINGS.

WHILE POSSIBLY UPSETTING TO (T/97 SUCH A DISCUSSION WOULD BEST ALLOW

US TO DETERMINE ANY NEGATIVE REPERCUSSIONS

PENSTON? AND COMMERCIAL ACTIVITIES, POSSIBLY RESULTING FROM

EXPOSURE.

ALTHOUGH|

DOES NOT CURRENTLY HAVE ENOUGH INFORMATION

TO RESPOND TO REF A QUESTIONS,

WE SUSPECT THAT THE (CUBAN GOVERNMENT?

DOES NOT PROVIDE PENSIONS)TO EXPATRIATES. EVEN IF THIS WERE THE

SECRET

---

## Page 2

13-00000

SECRET

MHENO: 98-1283498

SENSIND: RYBAI

OFFICERS WHO HAVE SERVED IN I

"SEEM TO RECALL

THE STÄNDARD CUBAN PENSION IS CURRENTLY WORTH LITTLE MORE THAN

SEVERAL DOLLARS PER MONTH.

THEREFORE, ANY SEVERING OF

V9'S CUBAN

PENSION WOULD NOT LIKELY HARM HIS FINANCIAL POSITION.

PAGE:

PER REF A QUERY REGARDING EFFECT OF (T./S EXPOSURE ON OTHER

JOPERATIONS, WE DO NOT LOOK FORWARD TO EXPLAINING TO ASSETS

CURRENTLY ON THE BOOKS WHY THE NAME OF A FORMER--AND. STILL

LIVING- -TOROCKAWAY'ASSET WAS OFFICIALLY DECLASSIFIED BY THE USG, WHEN

MERE DECLASSIFICATION OF INFORMATION ON ACTIVITIES UNDERTAKEN BY THAT

(ASSET ON TOROCKAWAY IS: BEHALF WOULD PERHAPS HAVE BEEN SUFFICIENT.

UNDERSTAND THAT HQS IS SEARCHING FOR ADDITIONAL-P/9-SPECIFIC

ENFORMATION ON WHICH TO BASE AN ARGUMENT AGAINST DECLASSIFICATION-OE

4/4909- IDENTITY AND-WE HOPELTO ASSIST IN THAT ENDEAVOR. HOWEVER, ON 7

BROADER SCALE, IF C/S SJIDENTITY AND ROLE WERE TO PROMINENTLY APPEAR

PRESS SUBSEQUENTLY TO DECLASSIFICATION, AT THE LEAST

WE WOULD EXPECT A MODERATE EROSION IN OUR ASSETS' CONFIDENCE THAI

TOROCKAWAY IS ABLE TO PROTECT THEIR IDENTITIES. AS WE EXPECT OUR-

ASSETS, TO MAINTAIN THE CONFIDENTIALITY OF THE RELATIONSHIP FROM THETI

OF THE EQUATION AND HAVE OFTEN MADE THIS A MATTER OF CONTENTION

WITH ASSETS, SOME AGENT HANDLING PROBLEMS COULD ENSUE WERE WE TO

APPEAR LESS THAN COMMITTED TO FULL PROTECTION OF THEIR IDENTITIES.

FUTURE AGENT ACQUISITIONS COULD ALSO BE COMPLICATED BY THE

DECLASSIFICATION OF I/S'S NAME, AS C/O'S WOULD PROBABLY HAVE TO WORK

THAT MUCH HARDER TO CONVINCE

THAT WE CAN PROTECT THEIR

IDENTITY-FROM THE TYPICALLY ANTI-AMERICAN-LOCAL PRESS.-

REQUEST HOS COMMENT REGARDING NEED FOR RECONTACT OF LI/S AND

REQUEST FILE REVIEW SO THAT WE WILL BE IN A FIRM POSITION FROM WHICH

TO ENGAGELI/9)

ALTHOUGH (I/9) MAY NOT RECALL DETAILS OF ANY RECONTACT

PLAN AFTER THE CONSIDERABLE TIME ELAPSED SINCE WORKING AS AN AGENT,

PLEASE PROVIDE ANY DETAILS (I.E. CALIAS OF LASI HANDLING C/OT WHICH

COULD SERVE AS BONA FIDES.

NOR BACTEY HOE ROYA ASSOCIATED WITH THESE ASSASY NADS

SURE TO PUT THIS QUESTION TO OUR OFFICER.

LITAMIL/9. DECE-BX:-2147034. CIREASON: 1:5 (CDECL

XI; DRV HUM: 4-82

END OF MESSAGE

SECRET

SECRET

2

---

