104-10767-10000

= » [eas 538) 45

ti Dm: GIRECTOR

Sngeceness

oor-77813)"
i pearetis
(18-1 7202)

“ PRBSIMABLY CUBAB, AND BOTH EXPEESSED COPLETR DGRORARCE. SUGe yo Duro -AVAT"2 RIE
es OL FREED VTL. REP A, WHICH APPEARS TACIDE ALL 1s Ayecntoh,
TATERESTED ABY ADDIFTOHAL THO YOU CAB GERAIS, SBVECIALLS, Rf 'paRrToTPAIGs
WAIELL RAND, VEREAL, AND AIRL, VESTED, YOADINTIR AMA, SANs, anawag, AND

a. a, Teor ner By
‘FERUESG TOY MR-REEIRE P2CPOGGY WP YIVABCIAL AID TO BAR, ie jpapAS'h-5 IEP As
[BV SMOOOR EAR AND BO ONUP KOE Tit BACHIOROUND, WS FSS, Ni roses SAT

teua Bot-( Ra? } SUYKveticarine oonre

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER Inar iHE ISSUING OFFICE |S FS HusiTeD,

6/68


fod: ViRECTOR

FCONFL

‘OpeRanonas,
Kane DiAte

i : i]
ATD TO THEN INADVIGABIN SINCE VOUID APPEAR PALL IB CATEGORY CY OTRERGTESAING
A GROUP TNCAPABIR OF. COAINSCIEG WITH JMET, PER YOUR COMGHT. EXP C.

(wep a? sassacz) . 1

: foo ane Gecresgiteieiie, We) 7
WE Comments: “Reported HUMAN returned San Jose from series ccaferences Bev Y
: - end Washington and said bis group has. been Legliy constituted
4m U.8. under name of Frente Siniical Desocratico Asti-Ccomista
ei @e America Latina & that U.8. citizen hesding thie group and 2
: Peprerenting it legally ie Baxvell RAAB. Mentioned Busebio BEAL,.
Abel MEBTRR, GAECHEZ, Arango and others es. connected vith group.
Requested cabled authority to charge JARC project up to 8500
‘@ month for ald to KIMAN to con.nue bis propegande and :

* political actiou activities. ee
Reported that VARGIA, when queried about BUMAN, described bis eo
“pal hoabre, elaver and crooked individual of low repute and sald
RIAN wes atteapting make contacts with enybody be could, on -
Dabalf MIJAL, end consbow got to VARMA end SANCHEZ Arengo,
yao now trying to capitalize on this. Said no thosght given
“to any HIGAE role within VARGSA's Cuban exile norcnent.
S0aeia PINAR bed baen useful im Ban Jose & wight continua bo of -
help babind scenes, but agresd vo must not strengthen any group
Ameapable of coalescing with ARS. .

a Dhgie bs
\ iE yudN\ coses we sestesee
‘ fra OTE et [ | evra oda
A : ‘ REPRODUCT IN AY OTHER THAN, ISSUING OFFICE te PROHIBITED, .
: i . E : caus

