# 104-10521-10025

## Page 1

104-10521-10025

1J

BA SECRET

ASTARTE CETT

Die Doerre

Ther

08018

: = LA:

8986

+15764191684)

+ 2 F58 65187 1 958

1471858666

MALICA DAS BPIEFED OU AMIANLO STIL

E:.: Tê FERGUARY, AMLASHI MILL CHECH WITH ANTHUNASI NÃO

..:ARNY NOMEDGEABLE AS ME KIDAS MAJORITY GROLP INVOLUED WICH

1:71114.

iT ATRUNK/S ARRESTED, AMLASWA WILL MITE LETTER 1O

': il düHlS ABOUT LONS AND TRANG THIP. IS AMINUNA/S: "

'Pi" SAFE, AMLASH WILL MITE ABOUT PLEASAÁE M:TUND IN:P.

AjA FAFLS ADIO CAN BESI ASSISS DEGREE OF CURPHUMISI AIC

italinie

:UC1FOT MAVE SPRIP ALL INCONIMO SU LETIERS FRON MIRA.

!:Ã NE LEFT HIS CARDONS VITM APIS APPINA CAT €:

•' GA DHEN ARLASI ULPARTEO POÀUTEN NEITHER AL 8°T

5

---

## Page 2

20F.

rel 710975569

i SPECIES ASY PART OF CACHE.

A/IM TOLD HIM FISHERTEN REES

ANNel AND PARIS OF COMMUNICATIONS GEAN, BUT THAT MONEY WAS UNE

::TET HAS IN A SERIES WICH OUT OF CIRCULATION. FISHERMEN

M!. •MISER SAID THEY TRYING RECOVER REMAINDER OF CACHE.

APLASHA

*.¿ NEOU! TEO TO CHECK AND ALPORT DETAILS BY S& MESSAGE,

'SPECIFICALLA

' HONGED AND CONDITION CONCUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT. I AMLASMAS

*RE TO URGE ALLO TO ESTAGLISH RADIO CONTACT IF ALL

•"RICATICNS EQUIPMENT RECOVERED AND IN MORKING ORDER CAPLASN".

TOS ALWAYS BEEN AFRAID OF OPERATIBA RADIO INSIDE PBRUMEN: IN ORDER:

ATINT PRESSURE ANLASHVI AND THEREFORE @18 TO ESTABLISH THE CONTACTE

WET: DUND INIS TYCE RAPID CORMUNICATIONS ESSENTIAL IF IT EVER

"''¡*y CORDINATE EXFILTRATION FOR A/ID ON ANY OTHER ASSET

#/I: DORYS IN PASTURE/FOODER SECTION INNA HEADQUARTERS

i MANANA, AN IMPORTANT POSTE ACCORDINA TO AMLATI, ANTHUGI!

ISLAGO WITH HIM ON SEVERAL COCASIONS. ME AS GIVEN AN OSFICIAL

.?:

5. 62 OPEL> A:D TRAVELS FREGUENTLY TO ALL PROVIS:ES.

STALITIED AAROUGHIST, MIS SERNECES ARE IN GREAT DETA

•¡NE REGIME PROJAILY FOLE ALSO MAS GAINING TO FI

---

## Page 3

SECREI

З6FS

11-714589

I'FLUENCE AND BECOMINS TOO PONENFUL IN HIS AREA. THIS LAS A

FACT SINCE A/IO CONTPOLLED EVERYTHINS ANO DID NOT PERTIT PARTY

OR LABOR ORGAMIZERS UNILATERAL CONTROL. AIL'S PRESENT JOS CANOT

BE CONSIDERED A DEMOTION BUT THE TRANSFER MAS A REAL LOSS FRUN INE

OPERATION POINT OF VIEY.

IN CONSPIRACY, MAID'S OULY CONTACT IS ASLASH/S, 8UT A/18

DOES HAVE MANY CONTACTS ESPECIALLY MATANZAS AND CARDENAS SUCH

AS ANICE IA'S TANILY AND FRIEDS MITH WHOM APIE MAINTAINS CLOSE

RELATIONS.

CALM ONCE ME RETURNS, AMLASHA! PREFERIEN

*ZA OWNAOYOH

PLACE AS HE WILL 3E OF LITTLE OR NO USE OUISIDE PARUMEN. A/IE'S

PROBLEM IS CONTROLLING OUTBUESTS OF HIS STRONG ANTI-REGINE

FEELINGS SUT HAS MAD NC DIFFICULTIES WIIN SECURITY SERVICES.

7 AMLASHI SUAGESTED ANSHORT SU NESSAGE DE SENT TO ALIJ

ADVISING "ESTE TRANQUILO, CHAALLS REGRESA PHONTO. ".

-AMLASHI FESLS

SESSADE WILL HELP MIS MORALE.

*SITIES PORTION EBLD-BEINESHID

CIN LAN ERNERETECRET

---

