104-10222-10019)

meg : 2 neemtar A,

spe ee an

SECRET”

woke

_

SI eect amen seep



+) WuaQUEA STATA

ore
uC}

tty parep.is

, NOTICE: thin ty on Office oF Porvomal Fy le and
pabsect to 10 day Linktatton period. thit fie |

bas teen churged tof

Loa WIeTAA
| and Lis due to be reed (tate are
+ DIVULION, 58-67 Nqo., x7OML. ay of

i
i
i
i
i
i



ot

a
achees
oon

eR NS es ms ae an Sei

[753-17 SS.

973

mM eG

Ait ett a tt atone

S. Mottves

wet

rape
wit

Dra


~OUTRAGT, PERS

IOTICES:

ig

DIV 104,

abject te 10 day Maltatton

cs

ERSORNE

#16 an Offtee of

reed to
tn ie



: : : : oa : s
i . vu! E
‘ ss
ee
a3 | : Blocnarl 1¢ PROFILE (PAR 1)
; Day : 4
ern ae

aE:
[Bt

ats Tet ony wstaadhy | i.
Ce pap]

errors iui rata penter (suarar,

HRS

Tub, ‘Novrison Knutson co,
mutate Hort

tino,

reerrertrereesrr rs
ouhaus." Arizona Stato College = iat
1565 Univ of California, Los Angeles ~ Law (pumor), ‘I, «|
1945-46 .Unty of SouthomCalifomia, Los Angelos = Law :
1947 CIC, Cap Holabird, Baltimore, 4 ~ Spoctal Agont (5 mos)
1949-53 Univ of 1 ryan Germany = Political Sctenco (night

; WAVSLighty_P,0, Inter) 7, Yona = OST
PS), HSehy My, Intory «Uy. Hathvay T, None, = May 1 riser

HAG I4 of “aii Prof Apr 1973

a aunct a8 suey aeay (Fareannel deltong, wil

it
chool, Fhoonix, Ariz = Phyateal Ea Inotr, (7 oz, jart-tino) |
195-06 Soledad Setnolts Greanar Sehool, Loe Angotens Pryotoal, £4 inate (4 noo, mart

tite a ceeusationat cee fersec] so

| Havgna

| vaave

day 158k Tow |oopAana Ars aie n, Ops ”
Be BP Bare BSE IMECa ci
: Mee

ii

eT” yong pe, Boning, Ga .= Parachutiot be re)





(Te te :

BIOGRATHIC PROFILE (PART 2)

JR aeirieaaey
David Sanchoz

**: ges coven wistony aracump. “

Tisew Teroeani ise 7 =
from Chief of Statton, Havana,.for superior porformance of duty,
Division. i



oka dir ie

5: Mo KALE

Dou

SRST rE Ime FSR ICMR NR CRIP cae Ree



SECRET *

(Phe Fodor tng

Date pirariD

Eade a ate
pores:

ST TR Thao
a 1 kbd SF,
034959 - momma

3. RATUBE OF PERBONKEL ACTIOW

PROMOTION

viov vito er
6. FUNDS. =

crtoy xX] cr ro ce
‘8 Omoawizatiomat re

DDP/tesinterves St S

10. LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION

Do
s
e
°s
3
i

ee ee |
it venation Tie, : Ta panIt ion mba [57 EARTGW BERTTGN enramaTOOT
OPS OFFICER : 6) 2, ae ee ee
Var eLanbivVcavion WnEDILE (G3, Co, shed) iay BGT Baas fie GHASE TMS UH PIANO OP TE
cs ap 0136.01 15 (1) + 14,565 °

Ve. aruaeee

font aianvo,

Tes Te aT

arte | 7

py ana Loot

Riss. tity arate ;
WU U2 t tat SECRET ft



. SECRET

CD an Tt dea bey

wat Feepane

ree [xjewe

3 ereac aur (Completed by

Office of Per

22-10%

Fo Ononni TAT rowat OF ewatiOn®
DEP/Task Force W TY 3. Meld
Forward Operations Station = JRMAVE
Poranilitery Section

fon OF evPLGIAL BtaTiOW

SeaaVE

Vi. Poartion FiTLe
Gi} UMFICEH

V2, position muware  [13. CAREER SERVICE DESIGNATION

0739 i Dd

V4, CLASSIFICAT¥Om SOMEOULE (OS, UB, fe.) ] 19. OCC

mace AMO STUP 17. gaLaRe OW RATE

#22

24570

Ve, eewanas
Front DMP SOBU/JY AYE, Ot Chtet,

pmovene



\ (then Pillad bey

REQUEST FOR, PERSONNEL ACTION

Pipi 4

epcrerrrerrsns

11 Avguo t 1961

Tr Fem tak soont
034358
Tpatuee oF PEREOMAIL ACTION

EXCEPTED APPOINTHENT

wate

1. CATE CONW OF CwPLOvMENT

RECTLAR

voy vroe

ertow x [erteer

beget autmrwity (Completed Ay
(Office of personnel)

roan EAT(GWAL OENTONATIONS.

popAm mim, 05 FICLD *
Branch 4 |

Forvard Operations Station - JHVAVE
Office of the Chief

SYAKVE

Ter Position tite

OPS OFFICER-{bcos

Va, Post tvoN nuMaem

Fo eaten srares}
Orsteaatiow

Ta eLaSBIFTEATION Sea BUCE (GB, Ey ote) | 18s 06e

fea)

Tas aiwanns

1 copy to Socurity

190 satnee oo oeTE

*42,210



SECRET

REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION

Fitted ty

11 August 1961

TT awe (hove sPie st duddbey

MORALES, Pavid 3.

err ess
cones

Do waTUNE OF PFRSOSNCL ACTION

RESIGNATION

REGULAR

noes |e. Leann avtwonity (Completed by

eco cr

erect

vror
6 FUNDS
crtaw

(Office of Personne!)

ST ahaunrFaT iowa OFaiwaT tow

DDPAWH Divan.
Branch 4

Tie pooition TATLE

OPS OFFICER

Vee euae and BFE,

Tas ben ConTaou wow] 09, CARCER SEAVICE
Oestcmar iow

V7. BALARY OW WATE

Tar ekansiaicatron Sentouce (65, UF, at “Securationat arate [¥

+ 12,2107

4% (QQ)

reerrrerrty

ot Why

cs 0136.01
a

2 naarg pee

1 copy to Security

ck

i

Trion contaoe earth

roev yy5Q ane

ST SS

fe SECRET



SECRET cae

LAMPE I)

REQUEST FOR PERSONN! Th
QUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION 22 Ootodor 1960
VO RFRIAC woveep 1? mawt (hoatoPiv elo wI dale, = uadeseseniedd bind atcecdor cana

+ CaTCwORY UF tuPLovwinT

7, Cont CENTER nO, Eusuces
ame

joc | _1593-s000-0021 |

10. Location oF orviesay station

“REGAL AUTHOe Ty (Completed By
(Olfice of Personnel)

WASHINGTON, D.C,

yu'

1A, poostian numecn  [i4-hcm contaou wal] 137 Cunten banvicl
Sestaution
OPS, OFFICER : monor go6d :

. D
Tas GAabiFieAYTon Wendie CGB, Ub, ste VH” BeeuaDRVowAL BTS

Te. Gaaor ano ote 47. Gatany on wate

os i an. —-}-- 402) ‘12,210 ;

Ve, Rewaane

DDPAMi/i/iavenn BAP 116,81 Wing 7

“UPON TERMINATION OF THIS TEMPCKAKT ASSIGNMENT YOU WILL BE HEASSIGUED 43 THE
HEAD OF ZOU2 CAREER SERVICE DIKZCTS,

SEU2 u

ieee Oe = SECRET a



SECRET

(ahem Felted Im)

REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION +

Gate Perrone

7 Powaor (heeteFlevtcutddley

1969385.
e

Soer

'ERSI ON

3. cai conv OF CPLOWWENT

af

~ CS8 yeas
20 | [60

REGULAR

vier v ro cr
6. FUNDS.
wy riewse

‘CEMTER NO, Cuanate

j2295_$450_3000

Te ceca avTnow
(Oltice of Personnel)

al” ORGAMIEATIONAL OEBTONATIOND

\

DUP Wi
BRANCH

"fie. vacation oF ovrectal

ore)

& :
HAVANA, CUBA STATION Z l? 3 HAVANA, CUBA
Ti ponrtien Vitae ee Ces CIS
iad
7 |___ BAP ~126 D
“S| Tas occurational sunita [¢s. Gaave ano oTer Vea gatany on RATE
03, 9136.02 wo * 22,210

Ve. REwAne®

poo 1452 ¢



ie REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION

% Nowe awhen 7adie)

AU bbe

CK Vein TF.
[Code

] 30. Soparation Dara

PRESENT ASSIGNMENT

Fi. Organiranonal Denignatians Code | 2%. Loosen O} Ollicial Staion Station Code
ras
: a
ea) Woy)
Fold —[34. Poritien Tilo paris benazestoaanatt 795" Verlnan No. 38. Sen] 37, Occup, Sorias
| e760. 57 |
i Win Gri OD E i

. Grada'a Sep}
|

BY ae aaa Fate 7 te

Vea

Ghia Personal Rack eselgnnent le $n sesortnage HER ¥ 20-580, Para, 3.0, (1),

end will be for an azercxicate period of 2 years,

[oe em UU ecagdant tite
a ee pg

SECRET

oa o, 1152 w


[
t
i
é

ares

SS AOIE ASST Rea =

b
3

-—~s-2PRODUCTION MASTERS
ee Te a
5 Pes @a nie aie)

a oe

aa

BIOGRAPHIC PROFILE

Care

n
m
a
a
4



Semantic scenaiceieemei inmate

Ors \ALo bseamtafS - ; umned 4
Pras (70% ae tern | .

|
|
7

‘a
Le

linda to, Caution iti fits a os

‘
evs

end em he

Deunk S. MORALES

seenet



pucrw ne

OA. scram/faw THs PAPER manken
: witht Ghenrle Peal wkrer Rixeiwin

: Tine wend by ev0A DETK - Avi 7 -

SECRET

i
I :
|
|

8-1340
19 October 1960

‘MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Records and Services Division
Office of Personnel

SUBJECT : David 8, Morales -

1. Cover arrangements are in process, and/or have Leen con-
pleted for the above-named Subject.
° 2, Eftective__immediately | it in requested that your *
records be properly blocked MaNKKEx to deny sxkoxmigaK Subjects
currefit Ageney employment to an external inquirer.

3. ‘This memorandum confirms an. oral request of|

SECRET 7,

an
ode

ohh



a SECRET
hey

NOTIFICATION OF PESSONNEL ACTION

ioe
eee Prevalie, Cards

TER oar 7 GiiGoRT OF Ta CTT

TCO OTE ORT

4132 2001 1000

10 WGenon GF OFA SAN

Taco
DDP/$AS :
DOP SAS US FLD FOS UNWAVE UNWAVE
& rraemiae WF RS aT TH iT eR BONEN
1039 D

PARAMIL OFF CH

136,34 43

Ta CAH ATIOR WADA (GL 1B omy WF occuraTiona RS Te GEN ND TF 17 Say OR RA
&

pera 2

+e ante rae ener ene nen

x tie
whe Vas fe ten feat



SOS

Tes
aeiake

0e330) | egERnemerins

315,665 cavesves 63 is 2 [fie 180 | 02702764

cs 153} }
i wank. L
rey

4 4 NO EXCESS LvOP
@ 7 IN PAY STATUS AT ED GF WAITING PEATOD

¢ # LwOP STATUS AT BND OF WAITING PERIOD
CLEOKS INITIALS AUDITED B
ISALARY CONTINGENT ON CONGHESSIONAL APPROVA

IN ACCURDANTE ATTH TRE poryts
MENGagNGs Datee RE PECVISIONS OF PURLIC Law &
epee ANGUS UATFG 1 auGHsT 4984, Sacany 1s ag tek as £76293 ann Dot

FRECTIVG S JANUARY 1904, S ABLUSTED 45 FOLLOWS,

Seutay ces eunng grest  gel58, Urea

eessaa 49

CF GS 15 2 4427865) 515,655

[as a.
OF



ee 64 RET
BAS; WFES 63 where

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

Tien woaUA YD Road GANT FuaTT IONE

augse | weacesesettmen 7°14 orannntl ee

7 mateat of PLETE CT

loz , 03,63

7 ar etait we, GPRS

Ge oe ete tent aeTAGATTT

Te Location oF arg Trane

DOP
USF
FORWARD  BPERATIONS STATION-JMWAVE
PARAMILITARY SECTION

Ty aon THE

| JMWAVE

OPS OFFICER

Te tio wo TP

ist 14565,

We occuratowa stare

0136.01

ry

SPACE BELO’

[is Action tS topiey Ph _oAriet Gain
ceo | te

2, 03) 63

rman Tia
te

Tourn Sieur wo

ee

!
te

tl

ro vis9

Wea Pulled ta)



Hci : i
Se14: 2 19932270 12/24/61 343,695, 12/23/62,

ee ered
7 NO EX-ESS LPO

p

71% PAY STATUS AT OND GF Hag TENG PL RIOD 0

7 LAOP STATUS AT END OR MAITIG PER}CO a
CLEZKS ENPTPALS SETTED BY, Ey

IP CERTIFY THaT THE WORK OF THE 422 /E NaWwEg EMPLOYEE 1s

OF GH ACCEPTABLE LEVEL YE COMPE

WE,

ATE,
[Svovbu

APM: 20 Al!

PAY CHANGE NOTIFICATION

‘Coane
et a ee)

NOTIFICATION OF PERSCONWEL ACTION

7 wae (uast Hast DOK

T WaTwnE OF PuatoRMLT acTiOn

REASS! GNVENT

SC arAeeT ark Ban _] 6 ATNGORT OF EPLoTOCAT

PECL AR

7 Gost CEeER WO GUNTLATLE [0 GC OF INCE LEGAL AUTNOTTT

roy wae
+

ator x [awe

2 rope, §4 Use uel

0 CaeaTa GF OARGAC SATIO@

¥ ORGANIEATIONAT BESIERATIONS

TASK FORCE

PATIO RS STATION

iy Cintas Seaviee esienatiO

ono re re



wos

aaa

RET

CONFIDENTIAL .

07 oer wapvereee.

i ee
E =
a $12,470
=

rs [SRE Ba Bag oar WO
Cle wer tne of end of wot pete,
pees _ Cle wor mann a ond ot wee wae oe
re a : CONPMENTTA PayAgLt CHANGE SLIP — PERSONNEL COPY ;
i at,
No4osO.Seck alTY THE P OvIS has ati=? aNd
H Siok Dee eae SY |S ASJUSTES uLCeS,



SECRET
(When Filled tat

‘a

934959

E mateed oo Piast act

REGULAR
TG on ornie iteat komen

50 USC NOs v

FXCEPTED APPOINTMENT

FoacaninaTioaat OtHiGuaTiOAt

DOP WH US FIELD

BRANCH 4
FORWARD OPERATIONS STATICN JMWAVE.
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF J IMWAVE
Ti. PouTvow TNE - [7 positiow ean i Gate GANIC OLTTEMATION
OPS OFFICER DCOS 0721 1.
Te aT ea kw Tat eiaraTona Tet” Tw eet wa i 7 aia =a
Gs foisé.o1 112210 a

pie tea

sen

SECRET



SECRET
ARE:29 AUG 1961 When Filled tal

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION
TE a a

063385. MORALES DAVID S

7p ahaa oF Finoentd ato, : _eiGive batt) 8 Catteonn oF taniorateT
ve aan
RESIGNATION 08; 19:61 REGULAR

ou

7 Gat Cite we Cane i Chea che en aaETE

2535 5000 e021

Te FocatiON oF ennjea Stata

¥ eeeanaTioan oteaatony

DOP WH
BRANCH ¥

Ti pouition tite

OPS OFFICER

Te Caibinicatiow Temtoue (6, 1S ieee SERS i Guine ano tit?
6s 0136.01 yt

ore

Obssievw Piovious SECHET

Yasiions



‘ SECRET
{When Ped to

43 NOV 1960

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

WHat bewnte —] E sat AGTaTeRT boc)

063385 _| MORALES OAVID S$
F mivit oF Pino MTS
REASSIGNMENT (TEMPORARY )®

1535 5000 0021 | 50 USC 403 4

We Location OF Givicia STATION

7 aeAmiTATVONAN BEGIGRATIONS

DOP’ WH DIVISION : Fai
BRANCH 3 ae | WASH., 0.0.
[ii poiton tive “| in ination ~~
OPS OFFICER
TCT TBE Tw ocd 1 aria aT = Se
as 0136.01
ery ame

* UPON TERMINATION OF THIS TEMPORARY ASSIGNMENT YOU WILL BE REASSIGNED AS THE
HEAD OF YOUR CAREER SERVICE DIRECTS,

ean teay ea tons |

ae files IK ees

ee . SECRET



SECRET
1 (When Titled ta
oa ALig60

dae

1 $305 | MORALES DAVID S
ant oe ican aioe 7 [eerie Tatar oF vancareneT
ra oe BOB ae
10, 15, & RECULAR

[vw | a m0. CHARGE [8 COC OF TNE LEGAL AuTRORITT.
[1135 5450 3000 |p use hus 4

“8 tocatiow oF ortidiat Htatiow

HAVANA CUBA STATION | HAVANA CUBA
1. PosTion HE i i Pinon weonte WG SEEICE DESICRATION
|
___OPS OFFICER 1 0n16 fy)
Tinie Tad WW we a a

os Ot7h.01 laa 1. 1 12210

ry

Keen, | PY O4iF 0 ante
Co eel

‘aToaEaRCALATION OMA Re
a Foo para >!
eerie |

Ue

(eeciees
ea

Tie

i

i Wien fasta
tt | tae” sei

56 | 10 | 64750
4

‘State tan ata

> aa

Tora ‘Gmrsista Previous
sey SO paincns



IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE PROVISIONS OF Ps. Le 86-568 AND OCI MEMO DATED

1 AUGUST 1956» SALARY IS ADJUSTED AS FOLLOWS EFFECTIVE 10 JULY 19600

biel

Dd

NAME

MORALES DAVID S$

SERIAL

$63385

ORGN GR-ST OLD SALARY NEW SALARY

4653 GS-16 1 $11,355 ' $129210°

“st EMMETT OD» ECHOLS
DIRECTOR OF PERSONNEL



Acs: 24 JUNE 1960 NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

7, Serial His. ]8. Nowe (an-Frst Middle) [bots OF Enh Ta [5 Sex SOW
Mo

563385 _| MORALES DAVIO S alia “ a ESE:

7. LD 8 ata [9 CSE Or Cihor Leal Authority — [10 Arar Ae TOUTE oe

Nar] Bao] We |yven.1 [Code] Ma.] D5 NX tyena Coda Moy aK whee

Oh] 161 46 [No=2 [1 | 50 usca 403 4 an Noa] | 05 | 05 | 52 [Nese

PREVIOUS ASSIGHMENT /
14, Organizational Designations

: Ya OF Official aa Stavon Code
oop WH :
BRANCH HIT
jae CUBA STATION : Ve cuBA
5

17085
55 Cepa - Field “17. Poution Vide

2 ieee 8. Pomton Noy” gSen [20 Occup. Senet
ASST Al R :

Hors {5 [10 FI 0116 E 0136.51

71. Grade a Bap [PP ay Or fate 123. 3D $4, Date COHGroteg|25. P51 og 726. Appropriation Number

05 * Biko ro oye a oa

132 $1030 B 09 | 08 1 57 [O34 9 | 8 3585 55 055

ACTION

(97. aus Gl Pation 2. Type OF Empigveo

[Code] 30. Sepsiatien Data

PROMOTION REGULAR

PRESENT ASSIGNMENT

Si. Crganasanal bosgmnilons aa Cole

3B. Locauan OF Official Station Ne Staion Gado
ve i

17085

Pesan Til

. a7, Cece. Some
| ASST ATT POL
Lio Ft

6s | 0136. 51
rep 13%. Salary Or Foto i Roprepriatica Number
140 z 4

1 11355

Ey

11500 SECRET ana



: a SECRET
ll (WHE FILLED IN)
(563385 MORALES DAVID S DOP /wH__ uv
= SUS SALARY RATE - SCRA LC)
TT aasr tirtcrivt bare — “thrective DATE
GS 13 1 S 92896 109 08 [57 GS 13 2 $109130 03 08 59

cory

CERTIFICATION

1 CERTIFY THAT THE SERVICE AND CONDUCT OF THE ABOVE NAMED EMPLOYEE ARE SATISFACTORY:

* | Trex, on PaINTEo, MAME OF SUPERVISOR

joare

2h Feb, 1959

PERIODIC STEP INCREASE - CERTIFICATION
SECRET

per

ROACTIVELY,

1958 AUTHORIZES BY P, L. 85 = 462 ANH

wD
SE
GENERAL SCHEDULE SALARY INCREASE RET:
12 JANUARY
OIRECTI SALARY AS OF i5
- SERTAL
ad
| SE

y

PERSONNEL FOLDER

EFFCCTIVE

lomoler |

os)



ADJUSTMENT OF SALARY RATE IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE
SCHEDULES OF THE GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES'SALARY REFORM
ACT OF i964 PURSUANT TO THE AUTHORITY OF THE DIRECTOR
OF CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AS PROVIDED IN THE CENTRAL
INTELLIGENCE AGENCY ACT OF 1949, AS AMENDED, AND POLICY
DIRECTIVE ISSUED BY THE. ACTING DIRECTOR OF CENTRAL

INTELLIGENCE DATED 8 OCTOBER 1962.

. SALARY CONVERTED TO RATE-SHOWN FOR INDIVIDUAL'S GRADE 5 :
AND STEP AS INDICATED IN CHART BELOW.

GENERAL. SCHEDULE RATES
Federal Employees Salary Act of 1964

Eaate | Per Annum Rates and Steps
di Elie Wes enue ses (ents Pete” Sed Joeaet eg Ee cng ee ee ee)
GS-~ 1($3,385!$3,500 | $3,615 /$3,730/$3,845, $3,960] $4 075 De 190 be 305] $4,420
GS- 2} 3,680! 3,505; 3; 930 4,055] 4,180} 4,; 4,420) 4,5: 4,680] 4,805
> 4,005] 4.140). 4, 4, 20 4,815) 4, 330 5.085] 5,220
5,230] 5,380 5,530] 5,680] 5,820

5,825 5.990, 6,155} 6,320} 6,485

9,250| 9,520} 9, "700 18" “060 10,330
10,125}10,420!10,715111,010|11,305~
5 12,025)12,; 7386] 12;735/23;090)13,445 °
5/13,335/13,755/14,175/14,595}15,015)15, _ 15,855

Gs
GS-12/10, 250
GS-13)12, 075]

GS-14)14, 170/14, [15,6401 16,130]16,620/17,110/17,606) 18,
GS-15} 16,460, 118,170118, 740 19,310/19,880/20,450/21 2:
GS-16} 18,935, 120,900]21,555|22,210|22,865|23,520/24,175
GS-17/21/445 23,695/24,445] .... :

GS-18}24,500



aa

P: Profletent
s
0+ Qytstending

inde

The PM Branch employs people and Js charged wlth

been Te BUTT

operation in Rep .

PE CHPIC OU
ReCIFIC DUTY NO. ®

TPREITIC BUTE NO. &

secret

foes

tn)

FITNESS REPORT.
2) 3 GENERAL

Ctubtted Epes “ iu tigex fa nmane fa. ser
_ eee | aes GS-15 D
OP FICIAL PORTION TITLE 1, OFF FINN IRR OF AStIGNYENT IB. CUR T STATION. _
Parnmil Off Ch, DDP/WIL/¢ __|_SMWAVE

31 Ma

i964

Ignment of
meets all sequiroments,

oxcellene:

Performance In mora than sattslactory. Desired results ore being produced tn a proficient menner,
olleteney.

yulromants of the work ond in campartscin #0 the perfarmones of

recogni

werk 04 to warrant week:

SPECIFIC B

All ameloyers
mo

ta which exployee par
wisary responsibil

Branch Chicf tn charge of JNWAVE's paramilitary operations. |
the responsi

f mounting UDT, commndo, cache, infil tration and exflltration ope
pe ia ore tions

Established plans and programs fora counter-insurgency

Develops concepts for contingency plans which can be used if
8

a popular uprising takes place in PBRUMEN,

Special Assistant to COS and av
tasks in Central America,

OVERALL PERFORMANCE IT CURRENT POSITION

vere’

ote late e¢eourt everything about the enplayan which Influences it elfeetivenes4 in Ms currant pusition wach as pers | SFFTER
femance cl specihe wien, productieiiys conduct on fobs conpetaivanctn, Fellinaat fartana® nalts hibits, ond
1 lar linivelieny or taleste, fased on_yoct knowledge’ al emalopoe'e overall portermanca,doging the f0ting
why leer tn Gains toe coveted te the satnent whieh moat oceutely teliess veel of getemaneee] S
15 Juy 165 |



SCONE

op pe Seton tt
AM spp ie

In the perfod April to December 1964,° Subject was the Chict of
JNWAVE’s Pavamilitary Branch, In this capacity he way ghapeed with
the responsibility of mounting successful paramilitary aa tions into
a denied arca, Subject met-his responsibilities in an exemplary
manner and his Branch did mount successful operations into PBRUMEN
dn which intelligence was collected, resistance nucled were establised
in the rural areas of PBRUMEN, and “in- and exfiltration routes were
developed whereby supplies and men could be moved. in and out of
PBRUNEN, In addition, his Branch maintained a UDT and a Commando
unit ina high state of combat readiness. The UDT and Commando units
were not used opeyationally in their specialties because of policy:
prohibitions against committing them against the PGRUMEN target; .
however, they were available to meet contingency situations, Subject's
performance as a Branch Chief was characterized by drive, dedication,
reliability, imagination, and the use of sound first-echelon manage~
ment techniques. Subject is realistic and effective in delegating
authority and responsibility to his subordinates. Subject has the
ability to weld into a cohesive unit a diverse group of men who ar
Staff agents, Career Agents, Contract Employees, and military person=
nel on detail to KUBARK, This quality of leadership developed sound
principles of team work in the PM Branch and made it easy for the
Branch to coordinate its activities with the programs of the other
Branches In # Station that has over employees and is engaged In

EERTIFICATION AD COMMENTS ean as

0 TAT HACE SER0
oa sationt dt Lietayne

22 May 65 | /5/ ZAMKA, Stanicy R, at Station :

andrew RY
id

ia Chiek of Station

SY REyiEWiniG OF Fret

4 AF mw aati Pesca

Concur {n Supervisor's evaluation of this employve,

. ta June 1965, iE ADC/WH/E

SECRET



SEC jarrative Comments (Continued)

LON C

Bena lise

.FI, Cl, Pe, PM, Maritime, Air, In A EERETAIS operations. Subject
is cost-conscious and effective in fhe use of xpace and equipment.

In the period January to March.1965, Subject filled the role of
Special Assistant lo the Chief of Station JMWAVE and, as such, was
the operational supervisor for the establishment of a frame of
reference Jn which a _counter-insurgency program could be developed
and implemented In this phase of his activities, Subject ’s
work had the halTm OF soimd prof slonatiam and reflected tay
ably on Subject 's judgment, Spanish language {tuency, area knowledge,
and dedication to duty.

The totality of the information outlined above leads the Rating
Officer to conclude that Subject's over-all performance warrants an
evaluation of Strong.

Subject is a flexible, broad-pauged officer who has experience
in depth in FS, Cl, PW, PM and Maritime operatione. In addition, he
has a preven record of sustained performance shereby he hos cstabe
lished that he can be counted on to do the job $n Tess than allowable
time Timite. In view of these factors, it Is belleved that Subjeet
isa valuabJe asset to his carcer service and, a8 such, can moet the
leng-terns needs of his service in Latin Amertea ov other Spanish-
spoak ing s.



SECRET pay

(anew Fitted
T]ruPcovee Semian Nuveen

FITNESS REPORT

GENERAL

rm eT a Gaaoe |

M GS-15
oe jv. cussenra
DEB/S US e [ JMWAVE

Te eneen (et TYP OF REPORT

Trerreay, if
He a

drecran Werle
REPORTING PERIOD (Prom fo)
01 April 1963 - 31 March 1964
SECTION & “_ PERFORMANCE & VATION
We Mok Pertormanco tenges trom wholly inodeeare v0 slightly leas then wetiefactory, A rating in thle category requires

Poultive remedicl action. The nerure of the action could range hom eounsellag, to further taining. te plecing on
Probation. te teessignment or te separation. Describe action token or proposed In Section Ga sed

eeeiience moots off requirements, It is entirely satistoctory and is charecterized neither by deficteney nor

ps

P -Buslislent Pestormance tn mare then satisfactory. Oesited results ore being produced In @ proficient manner,

Performance Ia characterized by exceptional proficloncy.

Performance 18.80 ‘exceptlonel In relation to requiromanis of the work and in comperisen to the performance of

ethers doing similar work os to warrant special recognition,

SPECIFIC DUTIES

List up to six of the most tmpartent apscitic dutlea performed during the rating pacleds Insert cating letter which beat doacribes the

Jmonner in which employes performs EACH specific duty. Consider ONLY offectivenass in porlarmance of that duty, All employeos

with supervisory responsi 1's MUST be roted on ability ta supervise ¢ number of employees superviaedh

ieecwic curr ne. T "Supervises the Paramilitary Branch which employs Crnak

peopio and is charged with the responsibility of mounting UDT,

commando raider, caching, resistance, and ratline oporations ata | Ss

Station which has L__Jemployeos.. a
vik BOTT

Spots, assesses, and recruits solected PM agonts.

wrciic OUT HOT Taveots resistance and ratline operations against —
geouraphic areas which are of priovity interest duo to their
intelligence and resistance potcatial,

Tinie BOTT was
Senior Case’ Officer for a long-range, sens
American operation which has PM, PW a

BUTY Noe

Develops concepts and plans for commando raids,

WEciFG UT» NO. 8
Develops concepts for contingency and war plans for a denied |

These concopts relate to the use of existing PM assets. leet

area,
a Hare OVERALL PERFORMANCE IN CURRENT POSITION

fluences hit effactivanays in hia curcent position such aa por | SEETHER
lersonco of spuciiic dutet productivity, conduct oy job. ecoperativenses, porvicant pevvenal Waitt ar hebivay ond

poriiculer limitations of tstentt. Buved on your knowledge vf employee's overall gwrlarmonce, dating the reling periods; S
Placa tha liter Inthe Foting Bou covvesponding te the tharesent which rau) arowrstely rollacte Mi oval of perarmances |

Take inte account everything about the employes whl!

E22" 45 ossove re easyous aortions.


A

SECREs

(eee tte te,

SECTION C NARRATIVE COMMENTS

Indicate significent strengths of woakneese:
Overall gertcemence. $4

manvivated in eurtent position keeping In proper pov apecroee tigi vel
ft made for egrevement of work ar lormone

oY Em

THAVE SEEN SECTIONS A, 6, ANO COP THIS REP
pate oe

13 dune 176k

Eres

Having ou numerous occasions bad the opportunity
to observes closely BRERs work, I heartily concur 23
the supervisor's remarks and ratings.



Continuation Sheet/FITNESS HEPORT - Section C:

Subject is a dedicated officer who has proven by performance
that he can be counted om to get the job dono in less than allows
able timo limits, Subject 1s a sound first-echelon supervisor of.
@ group doing a basic paramilitary job. Subject has the ability

“to develop a sense of teamwork in a-diverse group of employees.

It ts believed that this leadership trait is particularly signi-
ficant in that Subject has judiciously blended the talents of
staff agents, career agents, contract employees, Army officers and
Bavy pérsonnol into’a cohesive, effective group which has been able
to mount successful resistance, ratline, cache, UDT, and commando
operations against an insular denied area target. Subject is cost
conscious and effective in the use of space, equipment, and funds.
Subject has beon able to keep. his agent assets in a high state of
combat rendinoss despite shifts in policy which have placod the
UDT, sabotage and cosmando raider operations in a high state of-
flux, This ability to manage agent assets under conditions of
gevero frustration is a tribute to. Subject's area knowlodge and an
understanding of the psychology and mores of his agent material,
Subject delegates authority :and has control over tho paper flow in
bis Branch, Subject has a fine appreciation for positive intelli-
gence collection techniques and he has been able to relate theso
techniques to his PN-oporations so that an intelligence product of
quality has been developed on the rural areas of the target country.
As a result of tho totality of Subject’s performance during thé
period covered by this report, his over-all performance watranta

an evaluation of Strong.

Subject -has Spanish, language fluency, oporational experience,
area knowledge and drive, Arsed with thoso tools, Subject is
capable of movting the long-term needs of his career service in
Spanish-speaking operational areas where there is a need for first-
lon supervisors, Subject is at his best in agent handling
gituations and in view of this in the futuro, it is bolievod that

ine should bo used (n Latin Azerica to run
£1, oF Pil projects,

and/or mauago appropriate FI,

At the completion af his current assignment, Subject should
attend an advanced management course,



SECRET

Lahin Fitted Ea) :
eae
FITNESS REPORT ORS ppc et,

MEPL by Aaah 2 ___ GENERAL

“hawt. mn “aiaias

cowrre
Tfomeeran (Specttys:
ie coat PERIOD (Fro tod

thon sotisfectory. A roti
. 2. From ng, to hae
lgnmant of fo separation, Desctibe action taken ef gropoted tn Sectian €.

1 requirements. W 1s entirely satisfactory ond Ia charactorlaed nolthor by dellelency nor

Performance is more then sotisfactory, Desived results ore being produced In @ proficient meaner.
Portormance 1s cheracterized by exceptional proficiency.

1 List up 10 six of the most important specific duties pevlormed dusing the roting ported. tasert cating letter which best describ.
 ponner in which emcloyeo rerlweme EACH jc diay. Cunsider ONLY elloctiver formance of thet duty. All employees,
with supervisory toaponsitriitios MUST be tated on thair ability to supervise (Indicate avandse of eapleyess supervised).

Responsible for the supervision and managemont of tho PM Branch
which has lemployoes. fet

Lr “8

terran |

Specie ce gUTT Noe E 7 rE tg
Develops concepts and plans for Pit infiltration oporations which
have an ist<2ligenco collection gigsion as well as a resistance; P

DES SLON,
recive ost na,

aPKC

Sez Ciaie Oar nos
Server as a senior case officer on a sensitive long range
operation waich hay PM, FI and P¥ ramifications,

Taxyots PM operations ayainst priority intelligen

oand- res 7

sislance targets. 1 iD. mls i
ccc aiau su!

aan OVERALL PERFORMANCE INC a :

Toke fra9 cccoust wrerything ebeat the employee which intlvences 12 offectivenass in a eurabe Soh “f
formance vi apecitic, duta?, productivity, conduct an ich, erenerati ce: rent jrecsonah wets elt
pentcotor fe ‘ee tatecst, Based on yuut hnocledga of eaploys

pluce the ' tha ¢ wing gef cosrosponding ts the etetexert which mort

RENT POSTION”

But esi TIONs SECRET



NARRATIVE COMMENTS:

Indicate significant strengths of weaknesses demonstrated In eurtunt position ber
overall performance, Store suggestions mode for improvemant of wurk perlormenc
ton foreign langvege o ravied lor everent

bonis for devermining lutwe personnel ection, Monogr of
applicable,

SECTION C

Subject is a hard working, dedicated officer who has an unusual
amount of drive. Subject isa distinct asset to the Station. In the
period covered by ‘thig Fitness Report, Subject has worked in a perseverin,
manner toward the goal of making tho Station's PM operations responsive t
the realities of a target area which moved in twelve months ie fram a
soft free world operational climate to a classics! hard Soviet Blocrdenie,
area climate, Subject has had to accomplish. his PM missipn under tip
Adverse circumstances of having to do a current job in regponsg, to 2Kore
pressures for immedinto production whilo simultaneously Fajen
operational backlog which was inherited from predecessor oje 4
Additionally Subject had to project his PM plans into the Guturgl agas#at
a predictable operational climate ‘in which only the most rigid Licdtio}
of sound PM techniques would enable tho Station to continue ‘opelations
against the target with either PM infiltration teams or commando raider
units. Subject accomplished theso multiple tasks despite the reluctance
of the agent material from the target area to accept the rigid discipline]
and dedication which was required.

Subject: was able to accomplish his PM mission by the use of sound
operational concepts and principles, the delegation of authority, and
the proper use of management techniques. Subject has an appreciation
for intelligence and has harnessed his-PM assets to provide valuable .
bread and butter type covoraye on tho rural areas of the target.

7 fetes E} CERTIFICATION AND COMMENTS,

UNGEA My SUPERVISION

ab a

STF VPED CR PRINTED Ath ia 4B SigNATUAE

waht | | sf Andrew K,

Ba Chief of Station, JMWAVE | (signed in pseudo on Field Trano-
SY REVIEWING OFFICIAL Tattealy

[OFFICAL THLE OF UREA VIBGR

oate™

COUCENER OF

Subject is one of the "mainstays" of the WAVK Station. I concur
in the evaluation of tho supervisor.

TLE OF Reviews
y Chief, SAS
SECRET



Fitness Report = Section C - NARRATIVE COMMENTS (Continued)

Subject is at his best in agent handling situations. He uses his
Spanish language fluency, experience, and area knowledge to the
maximum extent possible in order to develop assets for KUBARK .
operational exploitation. On balance, therefore, it is believed

that Subject's overall performance over the period covered by this :

Fitness Report warrants an evaluation of "Strong".

At the completion of his current assignment Subject might * aie
benefit from participation in an advanced management course. : t

In the future Subject should be used 1
positions in Latin America, Subject is a natural for this type :
of an assignment due to his drive, self discipline, experience, ‘

language fluency, and skin color.

Phe pe



SECRET .
(aren Fitted In)

UPLOYEE SEMTAL MUUBER
: or REPORT ; 034959

GENERAL

fa sex 5
Male
TOF F/oiv/an OF

DOP/TEM, STKAVE

oO Trea or neronT
SerERREO inary WEASIONWENT/IUPEAYIFOR
= ee
‘SPECIAL (BeectinD
Barc 4
EVALUATION OF PERFORMANCE OF SPECIFIC DUTIES
Tovert rating
2 tn pettorma
Tmomber of ox

(a= Competent [$= Encaltont [6 Superior [7 - Ovistonding
ourvne? Spotting, dove Lopingrarina seeciicouryno.* Maintaining contac t|mayine
ecruiting,& handling FI agent To with PBRUMEN exile community in

lin the field. 6 |WAVE area, and reporting infor- 6
: Imation_gleaned
spacirie ouTY NO? Spotting, deve lo ping™ayne praciric DUTY NO.® Dovides background,
recruiting small PM reconnaissance |continuity and guidance on PB-
teams. 7 RYYEN mattors to all station

aeacinic ooTvna? Spotting & ASSCSSINgAMe precinic ourY Kore
enior political PBRUMENS for
Ings. 6

ECTIONC EV

Toke Into agcaunt everything abou} the employee whieh inilvances hit elfactivengs in hls ei
duties, productivity, conduct on Job, cooperativanass, partinont personal trol
your knowledge af amployse’s uversil performance doting the r

Moatemons which mast cecurataly rallects hie level of partarnonee,

Jails to most requireisan’
manta but I deficient tn on9 oF

Important respect 1s superioe,
raspect Ia outstoading.

alas, check (X) he dogtes to which goeh

on

S507 45 ousovera pee vious eorrtcnes, SECRET wo



SECTION E

W390 None mn
patential for devalopne 9 great
fran tn SECTIONS B,C, ond D te provide the best banie for determining

sponsibilitte
fate personnel vetione.

Sean

Although designated us Chief of Operations, WAVE, during the entire
period that Mr @@abehas been under my supervision he has been
occupied with a highly sensitive special operation controlled by
Hqs, and has not been able to oxecute his normal duties. I have
been able to closely observe his work, and can more than attest to
tremendous drivo and energy and this ‘all-around professional capa=
bility, attested to 1n previous fitness reports. Mr. wt
truly exceptional operations officer and ig best utilized in that
role, rather than in an administrative or supervisory capacity,
although his own administrative responsibilities are always well
handled. Perhaps his groatest contribution -to the Station during
the reporting period has boon his vast background and knowledge

of the complex PBRUMEN picture which he cheerfully and unstintingly
makes available to all. Station officers, many of whom are without

previous WHD experience, :

CERTIFICATION AND COMMENTS
"_BY EMPLOYEE
A

S auPLOvEY MAS BUEN
a SuMeRvisiOn

ring Time, Give MEASON,

DPPIGIAL FiTLH OF BUPERVISOR

[.COS, JNWAVE : i
BY REVIEWING OFFICIAL T

OPriciAL TITLE UF REVIEWS OF

Chief, TRW

SECRET


SECRET 4

(Whe Fillet ta)

[err eo) z
ALES Dovid ____S..
‘a. BemvICE DERONATION) 6 OFFICIAL PORTION TITLE

Operations Officer

insert toting
2 In peiforma
‘number of empl

er which beat describe:

astont apesilic dati perdormed ducing th
a EACH & ther duty” All employs
teed

pacilic duty. Consider ONLY ni erg
‘wus be rated on their ability to supervise indice a
T= Unsetisfostory 2 Borely adequate \ecoproble [4 - Competent [S$ - Excellent 6 - Superior [7 - Ovtstonding
SPECIFIC DUTY NO. . RATING [SPECIBIC DUTY NG. &
Spotting, developing, recruiting
and handling FI agent asseta in the | 7

nazina |pPECIFIC DUTY NO, ®
noe

+ Performance In many Importoat respects faila ta ment roauiremonts,
+ Parlormance meats moat regul flelent In nna wt mara Important respects,

TOR 45 cormere eeevious enitiows, : SECRET te



Ing preater ree

Subject is the finest all-around ops officor I mae ever known, Primarily ho is
aman of action who knows what haa to ba and goes about doing it. He io a
tireless, dodicated worker who puta duty before any personal considerations, He
hao imagination coupled with good common sense and sound operational Judgment.
Ho 1a steady and cool during emergency oitvations, He has worked under constant
strain and pressure over periods of soveral months without cracking or losing
his senso of humor. He has strong leaderchip qualities, tnepires confidence and
loyalty in those lie works for and with, He 1a ospecially effective in getting
the most out of indigenous agents. He has exhibited great personal courage. He
was respecte’ by the and representatives of other agencies with
whom he wao in contact. He speake Spanish fluently and is thoroughly conversant
with Latin psycbology. His operational and intelligence reporting, though not
always polished products, are complete and lucid. He has a great capacity for
works He has the potential for one greater responsibility and for advancement”
in the Agency.

During the ‘period under review Subject was in charge of PM activities at the
Havana Station, and hia performance of duties during this critical, tense period

Wao outstanding.

sta tor determining

UROen ay urea

CERTIFICATION AND COMMENTS

__ BY EMPLOYEE,

24 months

OrPicraw TitLe OP SUPFRVIEAR [

[Chief of Station

BY REVIEWING OFFICIAL

Ly OF NEYiEwInG OFFICIAL owe
CLP huD
SECRET



—

MV SECRET
fee Filed

Tart WUMOER

3385

FITNESS REPORT

—.-.___ GENERAL.
i.

ae WFieadtmiaiay Bry Taran > anabe
MORALES David Sanchez | Male C316
‘OFFicint PORTION TITLE [ee GreToivTen OF Misra mMERT

DOF/WHy Bre bs DiCe

9. SEmVICE DESIGNATION

D Operations Offtoer
z Tani status TrPd Ge neronT
Twor aurerece | x [uwun: eEreaace x NVvIROR
Tit, werontine Faniog Fracin Tape

[és"Dce 60 thru 31 May {ot

pertorned using the gotin
jonsider ONLY.

pear)
Wee

fareciric oury no. RATING
Responsible for organizing, training | "*

and direction of an intelligence

and_counterintelligence group. 7 L
fpaciric ovr WO. magne [oreciric BUTT mo. 7 aaygee

Responsible for providing intel Ligenc
and counterinteiligence support to al:

sections of a Base 6
RATING ISPHCIPIC OUT HO. 9 sit A TING
; ‘ier

sruciric DUTY NO.
Direction of a Countorintelligence

Section for a Base.

cil i Ugg ju eels ceed ued east al anes a ar cb nae RT
ve ggequry crating beet per one ptbe parrane erat ey errereeieoea e|
acti enue on rrp Moret epliment gol ve bel RAILS

r
Utotomen? which most aceurately reflects his level of performance,

+ Parformence eleerly exceeds basic aq
5. Performa: ¥ important respect 12 superic
4 Performuace tu evary respect 14 outstanding,

CHARACTERISTICS

jty Conscious
THINKS ECHARUY

SECRET w

Pons

t33 45 ozovere enevious woerions,


SECRET

wren Ea oo any

[SECTION E _______NARRATIVE DESCRIPTION OF MANNER OF JOS PERFORMANCE
31 ieard! bubdewibay in04
Sicpmeat ond tor

semeadortons far ‘ Erste Ine potenstel tert
re “aghy or ees ote, satings givan tm SECTIONS 0, Gy ond D ta provide the
Sane personnel actions.

. Speaking operational ty i { Morale yf,one-man gang. His work
fo of the highest order, quantitatively .and qualtedtt' if ttre JMWAVE operation being
what 1¢ 18, all officers ghould be versatile. Tio Mc. Morales is, Mis titles -- firat,
Ghtef, CL, and more recently Chict of the conbierd GhET Section -- do not even suggest

the broadth of hia activities, They take in denied intelligence collection
operations, the organfzation, training and managemont of a counter-intelligence apparatur
and allied groups totalling over people, sabotage and resistance ops, maritime ops,
political action, propaganda and a great number of miscollaneous activities that defy
classification, o.g., taking over and running a fast-moving PM recruitacnt program
without loss of tempo when politics caused tha breakdown of the normal recruitment
machinery, setting up a Red Cross type service for querics from the trainees in camp.

For sustained effort, Mr. Morales has few peers. With his drive,
imagination and good judgment he sets a {ine example for the people who work with him,
whether they find themselves under, ‘alongside or above him in the organizational -

hMerarchy.

beste for determining

CERTIFICATION AND COMMENTS
z ‘BY EMPLOYEE apenas
aes Tenrily 2s Evol this Report,
Jaana Fur — a

12 July 1961

Dare 31 siesisisiietiiaite igiat TiTUR Oe Ri
ft
UL 1969 Chief. WH/4+
SECRET



SECRET

11 January 1963

MEMORANDUM FOR: Secretary, Agent Panel

SUBJECT : SmeEegReSees - Promotion
nerake, bandh I,

fas been in the vortex of Cuban

¢ ations for the past four and one-half years and

has developed into'a senior operations officer with out-

standing abilities, experience and professional stature,

2. During the past two major operational efforts
against Cuba he has proven himself to be a superior agent
handler with ready access to members of the exile community
and ability to start and run operations which produced
valuable intelligence. His background knowledge of the
area has been invaluablo to the JKWAVE Station operators and
his tireless efforts and willingness to devote long hours to
his work have set an example which others have been compelled

to follow,

3. Regardless of @@@83s time in grade he 1s of that
senior officer caliber fully degerving of and ready to assume
the responsibilities of tho next higher grade, has
displayed outstanding performance in FI, CI and PM operat iona
and has the potential to fill a wide variety of senior

operational assignments,

4, In view of tho foregoing I strongly recommend the
promotion of from GS-14 to GS-15, T have discussed
this action with the Chief of Station, JNWAVE, and he
endorses my view that fully merits advancement to the
next higher grade at this time. Ld

Chief, Task Force W

SECRET



f

D ennemansszelind taedibesaahessratannsnmensenee ee eee ES
RE ee A Neen ee

creas is - ff ARE T

——

, IAMORANIRN TOs Qhief, Finance Rivirien .
“THRCUGH = “4 Dureoter of Porsonmel
+ “SupsDET "> 4 Postma tion of, Offtoors niente, for Prowiun Fay

REPERANCES 4 A. Nemorancire to ALT {ecm Cenerel Counsel, dated
. 29 Hry 3962, Aubjeots Delegetion of Avthort ty
{Gae 62-1332) .

Hevorendins to Deputy Mrootor (cipport) free
SU9UD/B, deted 7 February adil Bubjects
Bsergensy, bsiincaad

Neverendus ‘ta Deputy Director (Bypport) free
Chief, Tank Forva Wy datod 20 May 1762, Subjnote
Lewinces and Mmoliments for Peracannl nrsigned ta
GHAVE, QRAR and Svpporking Agency Cozpenents at
chai ane’ Saographie Area te

The folleving Aare anstgned PCS ab AYR avaltsy, a
referme. PaMOTEnAas 4 ie :

1



—

ab to contained in rotervcae zt
‘the supplement to their atalt i ll 7
9 effostive day of such proniua

ported Selloutag 2 os Were

Original & 1 Addressce }
ray yd = Dizvotor of Peraomel

+ TIM GY w Offices of Cemmmications
1 © Offices of Logtetios



cere ovaten imme AND NO

DISPATCH RYBAT/SECRET UFG-T-495

Vanoauartiny Me HO

Chief, WD

: es i
Chief of Base, JMWAVE fee ey
waar oe ay eee Fo
Commendation : Sem Divi d . MARKEY POR INDERING
7 _ (NORALE'S RO BMDEING REQUIRED,

oer
Please place in personnel file OEEING CAN BE NOCD

eerenenecess

1. For the information of Headquarters and for @Ga38
personnel file, WAVE-wishes to express commendation of

3 contribution to the JMATE project. Beginning with
his arrival in the WAVE area in October 1960, @@geewinitiated
an operational program directed to the establishment of a
Cuban intelligence service, both for positive collection of
intelligence and to establish protective security on JMATE
operations. In a remarkably short time,«@@z%was able to
reéruit, train, and organize such a service which has
effectively responded to intelligence and counter intelli~
gence operational tasks, and has shown willingness and
ability to ably perform a number of support functions for
other types of substantive operations, principally para-
military. In addition, the Cuban service whichSihe
organized ig likely to be the nucleus of a post-Castro
cuban Government service which will serve KUBARK ends, not
enly on the basis of liaisen, but by means of penetrations
of this service already established.

2. In the swift accomplishment of so many objectives,

GEBeaas shown executive ability, diplomacy, energy and
dmagination commerisurate with a grade level well in excess

cf his own.

PoM/asp

12 April 1961

Distribution:
-3~ Beadquarters
2+ Files


Cree eae |

DISPATCH | wmaryescacr |! prgenays
le ie

os
ps eae

crise, wD

Gr

eeu Chio£ of Basa, THAT

Mervabhe, rR Ss

1. For the information of Msadquarters and for GFZ _
personnel file, WAVE vishes to express cawsendation of

«22805 5 contribution to the IMATE project, Begining with
his arrival in the RAVE area in October 1960, GiMitaitiated
an operaticnal program directed to the cstablistment of a
Cuban intelligence service, both fer posatavea coilesétion uf
intelligance and to establish protective eacurity on JMATE
operations, In @ remarkably short t ima, wan able to
recruit, train, and organize such a gervics which had E
effectively roaporded to intalligence and counter intelli-
gence operational tasks, and has shown willingness and
ability to ably parform | awiber. of support functions for’
othar typos of subetantive operntions, priscipally para~
military. Im a@@ition, the Cuban service Valen EEE
organized 1s likely to ba tho uecleaa of a post-Costra 4
Cuban Governeont service Wiich will serve KUDABK ends, xot
only on the baste of linisdn, but by moans of penatretiono
o¢ thia asrvice already established. i

Aaa

me i

a, In tho owlft accaplishmert of so eany objectives,
3iGisas shown erecutive abtisey, Uplenacy, susrgy eed
ievginatiam commensurate with a grade lewal wall in axcoua

ve his owns,

POH/awy

iz /apsla igsl

$


+. 20 Auguet 1961

Ticidue , Land +

ae


SECRET
ee on Sti

VERIFIED RECORO OF CVERSEAS SERVICE

MO 9 Cu

OFFICE COMPOSE RT

saive'|Meentes, D

INSTRUCT ONS

Intent appropiate Cont siwore tm *éoot* Cou ueN

AC @6Loe to MtvoRs cara fom CrtuEe bcs
ae CANCELLATION (One only). REPORT DATES BY USING tat

MUnwIsatom 1s OF basic CATA, CORMECTICN.
nO LAST Teo BISITS OaLy FoR YEAR,

st avenceanate

PCS DATES OF SERVICE

Erm merre)

ic

Ter or

toy (Rasied

— ae

f

eRe



at tee tee ah

26 August
1925 v

wo ptatiow om wart : i
CAag:

SMWAVE i

rr
ta earen

October 1960

8 June 1965

7, SuWOE® aND AGEE OF OUPENGER'S @mO WILL TOAYEL ©

ie aeereveo pate one
¥e

oe orsiare,
ater te

1 July 1965

9 June 1965

eros

PPeatomae CrecuwnTancey Twat SwoHO OF COMSIOLOEO Fo Gs TeeuiWinG KENT ANSIGNUINT?

Major duties during this tour
Chief, CE (Oct, 60 ~ May G1)
Acting DCOS and Chief, OPS (|
Chief, Special Ops (Nov 61 -
Chief, PM (May 62 - Present)

During this four_year tour sub,

supervision from| Case

Reross the board (CI/PH/FI/PH)

cperations into a desied area.

subject officer bas

direeted ap to as na

FI/PM/CI/PT operations.

have been as follows:

May G1 ~ Nov 6l)
Apr 62)

ject has been responsible for the
Offfeers and secretarics invelyed in
operations including black infiltration
addition to his supervisory dulies,
ited, developed, 6 and

Fourse in Management,

UN me:



eae cob an ht eapeiwurad 7 oarewent rag rear oN rcadTo ©
Gar Peetet rate, AaOaCME ee IMOICT

prably Assignment to any Latin American country
hy Nervieed may be required, Second chetce would be chief of
atin Amerfean Country as deemed appropriate by my

ican Ge vou bretnr 10 te
fom niet PocuLae ay3teMur mT

+
see at ALIE@MATE CHOICES AND OPTVONS IM ALL C43!

fours
i
OO ertene rou, vont

cunatat sraticn 10.

, Torre
Co pesngney peyreres roe tow. h curr, ug _cumict of DIINO A TAPE Om OFFICE
1st CHOICE dno CHOIEE ano ceoie

er asavanes 4 Pree erations annie ganic ant of A
CD" sFenorre | AR MN io enare ao emotes

None

“yo ae tosoueied oy filo stiriow

reer

TIT Te conatnrbatiow of Tat PaPrasewce at
(ie TeAte raua Recomm npar ion €O8 KYS HERT And

Timrenuanet OF
ubNE AND ha

Sce Continuation Sheet

joie,
yatieatace (ou niet avsiToat te
ee lturautnr's aresuuryoat ian fon MEE
Tt is planned that Subject will head up a new police training
unit dn 7
L,

cee SERMTCE REPRESEREATIVTS

“SFCRET



Continuation Sheet

FILLD REASGIGNSENT QUESTIUNNALHE/Section 12:

Subject is an expericnced senior operations officer, sho has
sufficient scope tobe abla to manage FI, CI, PW, or PM operations,
He has a high degree of fluency in Spanish and has extensive area
knowledge of Latin America, Subject is a hard-driving, dedicated
officer who has turned in a consistently Strong performance during
his tour at JMVAVE, Subject hag additional growth potential both
as a senior intelligence officer and as a first or second echelon
supervisor of intelligence officers engaged in FI, CI, PY or Pu
operations, In view of Subject's experience, performance while
at JMWAVE, bis growth potential, fluency in Spanish, and his
preference for a future assignment as outlined In para,
it 1H recommended that he be se a_lateral [ield transter
WH Station where he can bo us in
in order to mount operations as appropriate far that Stat
RMD, Lf Subject ts given a tateval field transfer, he shousd
attend the Clandestine Servi Reyilow Cor , the

Course, and an advanced course in managements

—


a SECRET -_

FIELD REASSIGAWENT GUESTIONNATRE TRANSHITTAL

INSTRUCTIONS

Bp etinn hy Pewtgeartere in AP

fe vear eye

Lonasice 18 deetgned ¢0 previte raforastion Far cane

he fheld eB enews
rervinton and farearded te dew

lonnaine ia conptered tor eoptovee wader Be
(A) months meser te the iedeviduat's wlinnet date

The queatiarnaine ehtd he canel

ed and feraardtet through anneal channels to 4

fen atc

D. The questionnaiver of Staff Agente should icetede cover det lee end discus
“ nelate:

SPrCtAL NOTE

tbe prepared esth due rogerd Ine ae: : am the cane of admine

and futiee de mor ety
poraatly ag that na be prone
rar) sever, the ature, pwenese St he instal
other tha Seecription of the mare aediee wecursty
should not be fully reported an thle fore t Ube sadieated
Tian Na. 2 4 ae fo ahnw the Tosel of teepensaselitues invalved and enable en Pte un
stand the nature Of your poaltion, No wanes, operational techniques, chjectiver of purpowes af the epersris
Id be Included.

theue cases a general star

504. NaC OF Bera EE Cin peendanym atm

September 1964

In perudanve,

Sosy 202 geay e

Prine :

Red @



LL January 1961
T + Ureetar of “erscnnet
oat : thbef, at)

Al ittonel Conrensstion in Liew of Overtine rryrent

Pht: fene Anted M1 dinusey 1941 fro, FeAlO to mie,
errroved by 3, Subject: “oneloyer tenetits for
SPAT! Persennal"; im! lene drted 27"

‘} to Jerity Mrestor (fiend jock

Hone tts for Personual cetene! te wis

jn, At te reqested tint the
ve ndditbonal eer renantion
ter

4 below be cutnorized to re
aor UAL, th the ee te of 15
of baste enna] cormensetion (hut not te exceed the sebwadeer
) fn Wen of rayment of the remlsr overt ws for Srrecul ry

of their cose

—


SECRET

1 June 1961 ~

‘MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Finance Division

FROM i Chief, Mi/4/Support
SUBJECT : Premium Fay

Dua to the recent reduction in haavy workload requirements,
tha following employeaa are no longor entitled to fremium Fay, It is : :
roquodted that this ontitlemant, ba discontinued effective c.o.b. 10
June 1961, Tha salerien are chargeable to Allotment 4535-5000-8021¢

OER coat:
VECRALES, Uavid S.

Distributten:
2 - Chief,
2 = Directo

ance Division (ea. omployea)
of Fersonnal (ea, employes)



S-E-C-R-E:
(When Filled In)

12 SEP 1021

MEMORANDUM FOR: SA/BR/crD
ATTENTION : . pete

FROM : Deputy biped of Security (Investi-
egntional Support)

SUBJECT

: Pinole, Linh S,

1. Reference is made to the mexorandum dated 23 Auzuat 1961
in which @ Covert Security Clearance was requested to cover Subject's
conversion from Staff Amployce to Staff Agent, Go-1h, Operatione"~
Officer at JMWAVE, with Mt/i. .

2. This is to advise that a Covert security Clearence
is granted for the use of the Subject, as described in your

4. Your attention is called to the fact that a Covert
Security clearance does not constitute complete compliance
with the provistous of CIA Regulation 10-216. Therefore, if
you should desive at a later date to change the status or use
of this individual, a request for clearance to cover any
proposed chaage should be submitted to thia office.

5. his clearence becomes invalid in the event the
Subjact's services are not utilized withia six months of
the date of this memorandum.

FOR THE DIRECTOR OF SECURITY:



4 . 4

We cmecvnuersiae aS
}

SFGRET
Av eumacle LES inn 197) Kp 70- ae
(exetusive Or Tse Fibs yos-t¥)
ib thot Alle ie LOL awe Mae aon
iD) a

(ponent CIES oF Tat se- FOR |
[ Rem, y WSCA ane eanvcLacten Hates
&

oF cher ey
Dowd S. MW) CALES
