104-10013-10062 .

QTOAR Te SECRET
iO TACTED

Date: January 18, 1967

Tos Mr. Winston M. Scott

From:, \ Sennen L. Ferris

N Legal Attache

Subjects:

105-5747 (1118-67)

This document ts faF che y your

agency only and nvi*herit acr its Be
contents should Le further distributed
without appropriate authorization.

Reference is made to your memorandum No
dated November 17, 1966, captioned "Correspond
Cuban Embassy".

We have been advised that Wi
person of doubtful mental stability io has been interviewed
in connection with the assassination of President John F.
Kennedy. He claimed to have served in the United States Marine
Corps (USMC) with Lee Harve swald and alleged that after
telling Oswald of ie theft of his (Dobkins*) ranch by politicians
they talked about killing President Johnson, Governor John B.
Connally of Texas, and Texas Railroad Commissioner James Langdon.
Subject also threatened these persons in a 1964 letter to the
Chairman of Texans for Goldwater,

am R, Dobkins is a

Subject has claimed that he traveled to Mexico following
his discharge from the USMC in order to arrange a defection to

g

; GROUP 1
xeluded from automatic
downrracing and

declassification



SECRET

Russia. The approximate dates of this travel are at present
unknown.

By letter dated April 8, 1965, entitled "Correspondence
to the Soviet Embassy in Mexico City", your headquarters furnished
our headquarters with a copy of a rambling anonymous letter which
concerned Dobkins, Lee Harvey Oswald, various political
personalities in Texas, and the assassination of President
Kennedy which the letter relates to the uncompromising attitude
of President Johnson, It is felt that Dobkins may have authored
this letter.

Mrs. Marguerite Oswald, mother of Lee Harvey Oswald,
knows Dobkins and was in contact with him in November, 1966.
She claims that he is very similar to her late son and that
some of the travel activity attributed to her son might have
actually applied to Dobkins.

You are requested to advise if you have any record
indicating that Subject has. been a visitor to the Soviet or
Cuban Embassy or has attempted to use their Consular facilities
to arrange travel to the Soviet Union. Additional descriptive
data concerning him will be furnished to you when available.

You are further requested to authorize the dissemination
in suitably paraphrased language with the source completely
protected, of the fact that Dobkins was in contact with the
Cuban Embassy, Mexico, D. F.

SECRET

