104-1022040045

INCLUSIVE DATES: 2 =

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION: 2 e
rom: _§ £13

DELETIONS, IF ANY:

NAORE ©.
REVIEWING OFFICIAL,



MEMOKALDUM FOR: Chief, Recorde . Services Division
Office of Personnel

TROVE Personnel Security Division
Office of Security

1. Cover arrangements have been completed for the above named
subject.

2. #ffective immediate? it is requested
that your records be properly (blocked) (powopaned) to (deny)
(eoknomtedge

) eubject's current Agency exploywent by an external

inquirer.

Le
vnlepgy Official Cover Liaison, CCB



SECRET

21 duly 1959
Filer K-68)

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Records and Services Division
Office of Personnel

SUBJECT ij

l. Cover arrangenents xapoodeopmosnseganmiver have been com-
pleted for the above-named Subject.

2. Effective Lily 1969, it is requested that your
records be properly blocked soepponnck to deny xctooobeage SubJect's

current Agency enployzent to an external inquirer.

Js} PAUL P. STEWARS,

Chief, Central Cover Division

SECRET...

und

dastacaon

rors

ase 15808 i :

aa
aie



3.0 Aus i3Rt

MEMORANDUN FOR: Secretary, C3/C83 Agent Panel
SUBJECT: Rooommensat on for Promotion to Grade 08-13

entered on duty with CTA in 1951.
After brief service in he performed a variety of functiona
with different staffs and divietona, thus acquiring broad
experience. Since June 1960 he has been on assignment in
Mexico City.

2. Dn Kexico, SESH io still the manager of a large
technical installation with over thirty employees. Tha pro-
duction of the operation is tremendous and it ts gonerally con-
ceded to be the most successful thing of ite kind. Ho managea
its international staff serothly, end all problems that srise
palved a 0 val. seeze. Security hos been matntatned
facllleesly. wSigieapia a ciwtt, bvarty, confident man vitnout
a vorrisane Mitre ta his make-up. Ie wil) undertake anyth lag.
He bas beea tn gruda ror five and a halt year,

3. It 1a recomended thatWaisees be pronoted to grade
13

Ca~.

Western Heatephere Divieton



SECRET

Cit hen Paled ba

:

OAR ratvanD

_ REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION <—~+ 8 June 1973

3. CAMOORY OF banLOTMee

REGULAR

DDO/WH DIVISION
FOREIGN FIELD
BRANCH Te

Ta anon (ouplied by Ofer
Perwounel) fate Accataled

Public Law 88-643

17, Posmon ima

OPS OFFICER

Te Gasuiricanion SOuGuLR (G5, EB, 1c) [¥5, OCCUPATIONAL MEBHES

Gs. 0136.01
a

LAST WORKING DAY 29 JUNE 1973. .

1 - Security
1 - Finance

Toe, BONATCRE pF co

Poe Pars Ios |

bial arcs

VICE APPPOWIND OFC iB Bret

SPACE SicGW FA IXGLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICI OF PE

@ sums fn wit he

Tanase
aan 00" FF

fue [30s
039

i
nh ase

Patina Coot

STs Oo MOE) fo Se > SECRET [eae Sot



SECRET

[bow Pali tad

Port)

25 April

7 naa OF nner ocr ico OC Po
DESIGNATION AS A PARTICIPANT IN THE [oun roy ory
CIA RETIREMENT AND DISABILITY SYSTEM 05 l 07 | 67_| REGULAR

7 Pinancian ANALYSE [eWeoat aummonty (co Oy Ope
n maploend by Ofer of

NQ CHARORABLE
7135-0990. PL 88-643 Sect. 203
79. KOcanON OF OCA STATON ,

MEXICO CITY, MEXICO
17 POSON HOMME 1) GARTEN SERVICE DESOMATION

Ta CiASCATCH ScmtOue (GS, LA, am? [is Occurariona sent [16 Gant ano S18 T7 SALARY On wate

aa 43__is
‘EMPLOYEE WILL RECEIVE NOTIFICATION FROM THE DIRECTOR OF PERSONNEL OF THIS
DESIGNATION.

Te wnarin “Yn iwiteant
soe Paine (ot
7 wanitaw | Te, rr Wain ee
g mo

7 Sea

pony | una coat

fence fer der at
evict 8 et
(oot Me TST PO ea
faustus ons
Tuc Then 1H: aed

ISN N52 wad rerwious somnon :



ia REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION

SECRET

1 ow dalled bat
> Coyne

31 MARCH 1966

y CAtOGHY oF EaOTmaNT

CR 72| Z

7 Cost Centta NO Chance
aut

FOREIGN FIELD
BRANCH 1 iz
MEXICO CITY, MEXICO STATION

-

Vo (canon OF OMNCAL STATON
_
MEXICO CITY, MEXICO

we

Ha 3)

HE [73 Fosmion women [1a Cat stevie peSCHATOR

0418

Rad cE ‘OceurATIONAL

0136.01 ~

aes rADE AND SP

13.

Pos. No,: 0853

agate |

isa) SGnaivat Gr cai

et
5 Dae re
ted feet faked nase

TSES2 ese eeenaes sonic

SECRET

[Dat bea



(Kn) a

72 WATUeE OF PURONeNR ACTION

PROMOTION-

SECRET

se Patel tot

[DAW ratpaaeo

21 MAY 1965

9 CAIEOOSY CF FSR OVRENT

REGULAR

7 Wow auras (ooapad oF Othe
omet)

BRANCH OE
MEXICO CITY, MEXIOO STATION

MEXICO

Ors OFFICER,

Ta, ClABBiTCATION SCHEOULE (G5, PA. ete)

Ty GeCUPATONAL SERS

A ae 0136.01

1S Gikoe ako ater

[1a casten SERNIE GESGNATON

7 Taw owe

$12,495

SAME/GS 12.5/831,670,

‘ROTIVE 23 Va 1965,

FROM:

TO DE

LA
acy
asec

QA en 7 eee YC -3/,

SOR | CTE! Bey ee)

fae 82 une psewoes conan

SECRET



SUBJECT + Notification of Ay

SECRET

TNOV tee -

MEMORANDUM FOR; Chief, Western Hemisphere Division
tity Step

Increase_-

1. 1 am pleased to send to you the attached officlal
notification of the approval of the Quality Step Increase
which you recommended for this employee.

2. The salary increase accomplished by the award of
a Quality Step Increase is important and tangible evidence
ate esteem’ in which the employee so recognized is held.
However, I belicve the commendatory and incentive bonefita >
of this award will be partially lost unless it 13 presentod
{n an appropriate ceremony which will afford the individual
recognition among co-workers and supervisory offictals. Also,
I believe such recognition sorves to Inspire other employees
to aspire to earning such recognition.

%, Acknowledging that cover problems nay goverel
Limit the manner in which this not js presented to the
employee concerned, way | ash that yo! Te to have Lt
presented with such ceremony ag is appropriace toh
and assignment.

Robert $, Wattles
Director of Personnel



EVES git
Ring

MEMORANDUM FOR: Secretary, CSCS Agent Panel
SUBJECT + Recommendation for Promotion to Grade GS-13

1, WH Division fully endorses the strong recommendation
made by Chief of Station, Mexico, for the promotion of Arnold F.

from GS-12 to GS-13.

2. The project supported by 432338 during the last five
years is considered a model in the Agency and a good deal of
the credit for such exceilence is due to this officer, whose
Ranagement of the project for a prolonged period of time has
been well in excess of that required of a GS-13,

3. Subject is 46 years old and has been in grade as a
Gs-12 for the past seven years.

, aos

Re Ma fa

Desuonad FitzGerald
Chief

Western Hemisphere Division:

ve

1965S"

4 eee, /
Lb ffPhoveee a, oe



[No Inpoaine acquiaro

ONY QUAUINED OF:
SAN JUDGE INDEXING

| wxoma

i {itaches axe copies of an fnnual Fitress Pecort «gai
SESPNRP 10 fs cureide case officer and tecitedan for Trosect

stronply urces that this officer be
mart :

4 to
ise” (in
foul be the ¢

peearnented

£ Dtation,
ess port.

po

DIDATCN SYMAGL AKO NUMBER

i
i
,
|

aa



‘SECRET

(then Filtet tod

chary Rumor

Services Division, Office of Personnel, an Official Disability Claim

File on the above named employec (or his dependent*) for an illness,

injury, or death incurred on __2% April 1964

This notice should be filed in the employee’s Offictal Personnel Folder

ag a permanent cross-reference to the Official Disability Claim File.

BaTe oF woticn

1 OCT gg

NOTICE OF OFFICIAL DISABILITY CLAIM FILE

TEST TO76 cer reesnecn evetae SECRET veran



EVES ONLY

8 Novexber 1963
MEMORANDUM FOR: Secretary, “lecmeeres
SUBJECT: Promotion of i
REFERENCE: Menorantm for: Secy, Agent Panel, dated 30 Aug. °63,
‘ Babject: Nominations of Staff Agents for Promotion to

Grada G6-13

1. On 30 August 1963 a memorendum recommending the prozotion of

ee yas submitted to the Staff Agent Panel supporting the
WR Division semi-annual ronking of GS-12 Steff Agents. In view of recently
received information, I feel even stronger now that this exployee is
@ecerving of recognition by promotion at this time.

-2. A representative of the FI Steff hao just returned from a visit to
tha Maxico City Station and reports that SERGE? is performing exceedingly
well cn the duties and responsibilities ascigned to hin. I as very gratified
to hsar thie news and believe that it should be considered significantly by

the StafY Agent Panel.



S (thee Pi fed ty

z ia SECRET pe
XK. : :

REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION 3

So NaTURE OF PEmBONNGL ACTION

KEASSIGNMENT,

7, €OBY CENTER nO. Cuanens [ 8. LEGAL AUIWOR ITY (6%
ame Oilice of Perecnne,

To. Location oF orficeas

station

BRANCH 3
MEXICO CITY, MEXICO SYATION : YEXICO CITY, MEXICO

Th, PowITION TITLE a TE. Position muwata 13. CAMEEA Sravice OESIGNATION

Ors OFFICER sissies eaaeeeeeceeaeeneee eae

Ta, CABSIFIGATION SCHEDULE (OH, LA, ofc.) | 19. OCCUPATIONAL BEMIES |4¥. GRADE AND STEP 7. Satany on Pate

’ uu
os 12) | auz6.0n. 123 | eee 9 2

coarrerrrry

FRO:

DoPAM/3/PHOTECT LLTENVOY/BAP=3120/-EXICO. A+ a9
Z 7
STAFFING COMPLEMERT CHANGE.

at OF CARFIR SERVICK avPucsina|OATE sium
enol 122
( elt 22

SECRET : ee



Mo, | ba. f

o% | 12 | 19
y |i0,

PREVIOUS ASSIGNMENT
Code | 15. Locéuon OF Official Seaton

G7 Hatare OF Ration

RXCEPTED APPOLMTHENT

74. Dain NGrado 195. F
tan, Da, Ye. | Mo.
!

i

ACTION
2, Type Ol beploves

ry

$3 _E, Dare 30. Separation Dots

Mo.
SUAVE LGENT

6 iibd pdt

PRESENT ASSIGNMENT
gention CA Cihcial Station

CG GL, &

143, Aageeiraian Rabon

9135 504 5270 _
_ XAT BFCOTAGO,

FaeMe, 1159

een Se



art

: ceca iaes aT

cE ERTIES Pf ROS AE ROO EEC SRS
Ma sae ¥
Sat Tastee eee :

tf '
y) i nd Ly
f tL .
{fe titties Coulee
Gin freee





SECRET

BIOGRAPHIC PROFILE

BLOGRAP*

|
E '
z
z os
ie}
8 .
E ; :
138D3S : \ a

sed


-)
u
‘
i
i : = i
4 PAY ACJUSTMENT IN ACCORDANCE WITH 5 UsSeCo 5305 AND EXECUTIVE ORDER 1
fi 116dt PURSUANT TO AUTHORITY OF oct As pRaviDed IN THE CIA ACT OF 1949
i AS AMEADEDs ano OCT DIRECTIVE DATED 08 OCTCBER 1962."
1 “
| errccTive OATE OF PAY ADJUSTMENT! 07 JANUARY 1973 |
!
: NEW \
NAME SERTAL CRN. FUNDS GR-STEP SALARY i
Sosesa 51 620 ch Gs 1) & $23,642

sd o tonne o
. 20721 03/18/69 (65 19 7 [621,319 sien |
sian cng :

tar oenas
Taucies av

"Sr S08

_PAY CHANGE NOTIFICATION



“PAY ADJUSTMENT IN ACCORDANCE WETH SALARY SCHEDULES fF PL 91-656 AND
EXECUTIVE GROER 11976 PURSUANT To AUTHORITY OF OCE AS PRGVIOED IN THE
CIA ACT OF 1949, aS AMENDEOs AND A OCT OIRECTIVEe DaTEO 6 OCTOBER 1962”

EFFECTIVE OATE OF PAY ADJUSTMENTI 10 JANUARY 1977

3 aaa NEW
NANE SERTAL ORGN, FUNDS GReSTEP SALARY
006830 51 620 CF GS 136 8202721

j

PRAY ADJUSTMENT IN ACCORDANCE WITH SALARY SCHEDULES OF PL 9,6231 AND
EXECUTIVE ORDER 11524 PURSUANT TO AUTHORITY OF DCL AS PROVIDED IN THE
CIA ACT OF 1949, AG AMENDED, AND A OSL OIAECTIVE OATED & HETSBER i998Rh

EFFECTIVE DATE OF PAY ADJUSTMENT! 28 DEGEMSER 1969

NEw
SERIAL O8GN, FUNCS GRaSTEP SALARY

H ensamemas cesar 006330 31 420 CF GS 13 8192555



> _1Pt actions

= Le [er
a 1 vunaval

sigrrged esdissog

tents ond eae

wPAY ADJUSTMENT IN ACCORDANCE WITH SECTICN 212 OF PL st-206 ANG ExEC
1474 PURSUANT 10 AUTHORITY OF C1 AS PRQVIDER Ph THE C14 ACT o

ORCER

quality Step Increase
\

AS AMENCEDs AND A OCT OLRECTIVE GATED & OCTUEER 1962"

EFFECTIVE DATE OF PAY AQJUSTMENT? 23 JULY 1966

aE
SERLat  UaONy beter”
CG6R30 51 629 sane B1t, 329

Tew SAvAnY BA

EWMOYEE 1S OF ACCEPTABLE LEvEL OF COMPEFENEE

THAT 28 WORK OF THE ABOVE NANED

[ee Leta
ee fA vb pees or
"Fy a ear starus ar tno oF wan P8100
= Dawe y Ledticken
be

(7) ce eran At e@ OF Walla 72800

udu

f HssHinentencetenesaeeaaapiaasisoaeisneenereiepetgenevenpipgenseny


MPAY AOJUSTMENT $8 ACCORDANCE WITH SECTIONS 212 AND 216 CF PL 906206 SND
EXECUTIVE ORDER Lh4t3 PURSUANT TD AUTMOAITY OF OCT aS PROVIDED IN THE C4 ACT
Beoel yiniey CATES S DETCSFR Yoeae

OF 1969) AS AMENDED, AND &
EFFECTIVE DATE UF PAY ADJUSTMENT! 14 JULY 1968

m0 0 | (NEw
SEKITAL ORGN, FUNDS GRoSTEP SALARY Sapary

$14,057 $15,869

006830 51 620 CF GS 13 «

» SPAY aduuSTEERK
PURSUANT TE sur nna RECORD ANCE
utmgR 4ITH Sac :
» AS AMENDEC, ane pouey OF OCT 48 Beavgney SCMEDULES OF PL go a2
PIRECTAVE DaTED B uctoHER {aggsst OF 195%
"RAR 1962,”

EFFECTIVE var
. & OF Day yg
DUUSTMENTS 8 og
B OCTOKER 1967

aL New

andy
SAESey SAL kay

31 420 or ce
4 CF BS ES 4 sialon, ae
’

: ays

IN aceoag
CORGence 4
sree DaMiein Osteo Pap raies
STEVES jauiaay 1948,

PROYDe,
lou IF op
1936, Saraay paveklC Lan apes

VaeV IS atvusten {27284 bee oer
bai CLLRS

Seatar
ORGN fr ra
S SUS Gassp 5 Che ves
NY Sau gay

on :
PA930 51 94 cr a8 424
. $

429 Stn,9%9

cone



PRIVISTONS OF PLALIC bas 17 79? an).
1 AUGUST fase , SALATY AS ArsuSTED 25 FCLLCHS,
1984

Ls “za | New
SERfaL OaGN FUNDS GRIST Sau

RRY  G¥L57 SALARY

COEF 3A
432026 64799 cF 426 3 67395 17 & 210620

TRGAY ase omarion

3 (8 95475 03/09/61) cs 1

(ees aU
7 0 EXCESS LHOP ‘A 7 EXCESS LWOP
7 JN PAY STATUS AT END br WAJTING PER{OO
7 YH LWOP STATUS AT ENO OF WAITING PERIOD

CLERKS INETPALS AUD TED BY

PAY CHANGE NOTIFICATION

) CERTIFY THAT THE #0)

OF AN

SIUNAT

END OF WAITING PER!
DOF WAITING PERIGD
AUCITED,

L#OP STATIS A
CLEPKS BETIALS

AMED EMPLOYEE 15

sf THe ABOVE N

COEP TABLE LEY

ual


lay Ge 21-75
TT ry irITIAL(S) 12 APPOINT WENT DATA Tora stauict FOF

RETIREMENT 6/29/73

HOURS)

“apie CROs asa)
bint to Soc 20K SL TUS Coed vow — oe

capes amet 32 | 31 oa
Evod ee ehct tee 30%! SD ee ne roe R

res ee
SUMMARY OF HOME LEAVE
TAs,

3

«

Beary toe oe lowe pow nes ALE
wl

Comme mone roar occrvel towgh 6/23
wis.

14 ete cxiat brood for #8, perpones
1S Cement balance at of
1 Roman occa rae —
17 ate love wed. ror 24 monte

SCD:
3/16/41

* sick lv.

Tow ae sod a temp wm 36.00

toi ww 23642,00

ene se See Sos. ie
rem QS30. 7/2/75 0 QLAL73_ 1700.

Manthy eer dole
Calendar dort cred for nant scent date

sent to co |

Ex.

‘Bom

for Chief Pyrat
ie

Us civil Havice Comps
Wiocien RECORD OF LEAVE DATA TRANSFERRED SPPEMENGS Bes AND 9902

Ferrer reno on eareete rane remem meen nr eetemeer pet eee


SECRET

(hn fled I
LML: 03 yuL 73 =
NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

0EB_ |
1 sna ae :
906830 | 7
T valine oF busotbar action : ET
RETIREENT (VOLUNTARY) UNDER CIA [==
RETIREMENT AND OISABILITY SYSTEM | 6/29} 7: REGULAR

ae [vio 7 Yonah lane epee] © Ce 08 Ghat UAT AUTNGRTT
4 runs

ALA x | re 3135 0990 OM PL 88-643 SECT 233

[9 OREARITATIONAT OESENANORS

ODO/WH DIVISION

FOREIGN FIELD
BRANCH 1
po Poston Tie Fa POSTON hOmaER
OPS OFFICER Ons

10. WOCATION O* GPFKAT ATA TMi

TF WRT ENATION

D
Ta GASS@RATION SCHROUE OS. UB. wie) 13, OCCUPATIONAL Stats [16 GRADE AND S17 17 SALARY OF BATE
cs 0136.01 1397 23642 “|

SPACE DELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF Ai

fr arrice CoOmE

at
;

[Base

Dale or Ba



. cate a =| .
BT; 17 MAY 67 Wea Fite ted

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

3830

ATONE OF PERSCHN

rc 7 OTIGOET OF ERE
DESIGNATION AS PARTICIPANT IN CIA | ** i :
RETIREMENT AND DISABILITY SYSTEM 05 107167 REGULAR

T Wesco Konipon We. Carorio | SCO EN REAL MTR

[ene vee
“ rovos > ;
fare ix | @™o (7135 0990 OOOD| PL 886643 SECT. 203

9. GRGAMITATIONAL DESICRATIONS, ‘OF OFFICAL STATION

ODP, CO CITY, MEXICO
Ti, Pomtrow Wie ‘ion wate Sine terearoR
| o
Te CaasiFTCATION KONTDTAE (eS, UN, ww) iF ofcaraTionae stants TE Gee WD STEP Tsar ar diene

is i

Was
EMPLOYEE WILL RECEIVE NOTIFICATION FROM THE ‘)IRECTOR OF PERSONNEL OF
™* DESIGNATION.

SECRET



PAY ADSUSTWEN
Ta
AS AMENDED,

SCHEDULES OF FL 89-504
IN THE CLA ACT OF 1949,

T IN ACCORDANCE wyTH SALANY
UTHORITY OF DCI aS PROVIDED
AND AcDCH DIRECTIVE DATED 6 CCTOBER 1967."

puhguaat
EFFECTIVE DATE OF PaY ADJUSTMENT 3 JULY 1566
: OLD’
SERIAL ORGN, FUNUS GHeSTEP SALARY
075836 $1 620 CF GS 13 3 Sis+380

NAWE

(ee

NEW
SALARY

$13,769

A CERTIFY THAT THE 4.
OF AM ACCEPTABLE LEY

AY CHANGE NOTIFICATION |

saenuennener canal

id



“ AFRUL_ SS [When Miled fat

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

aut

606830

arate

REGULAR
Coe Orne Leal MeTORTT

7 fi BCE it na

x Lone 6135 9990 |

SO USC_YO3 J
1D, GAGARLIATIONAL GCDIGNATRORE: TO. LOCATION OF OFFHCIAL $11 sist

OOP AW
FOREIGN FIELD

BRANCH | : ;
W/MEXICO CITY, MEXICO STATION MEXICO CITY, MEXICO
inert 1 iinet Winn bioaTee
OPS OFFICER O48 0
[ CANNCATIOR soMTORE TE wd WS occurarignat staits | Te GRADE AND STEP WF, SALARY 08 BATE
‘ os 0136.01 13.2 12945

fern



Las —_

"PAY ADJUSTHEAT IN ACCORDANCE WITH SALARY SCHEDULES OF PL AG-304
PURSUANT TC AUTHORITY OF UCT o8 PROVITEN IN THE CIA ACT OF. 1949.
AS AMENDED, ANE ACDCE POLICY DIPECTIVE DATED 8 OCTOBER 1962."°

EFFECTIVE DATE OF PAY ADJUSTMENTS 10 OCTOBER 1965

° ovo New
NAME

SERIAL 09GN, FUNDS GReSTEP SALARY SALARY
v

“
00683) $1 620 CF G9 13 2 $120495 $12,945



, SECRET
When Filled tnt

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

12

REGULAR

Taro carat
365

jaw

7 Goat nite na, ONSTAR

135 0990 C000

Tw inte The DaTRRTT

So USC 403 J

7 GRGAITATIONAL BeTeaATIONS

DOP/WH
FOREIGN FIELD
BRANCH Itt

MEXICO CITY, MEXICO STATION

i
a Location oF OFFiG STATION

X1CO CITY, MEXICO

es’

0136.01

Position NE Te Postion wait Th Baavied pasiemation
OPS OFFICER oO
Ta CATIFICATION SOMONE FLU, er) Te orca ionat stacy 7 SALARY OF WATE
i 12495

aro

roan
reee USO Canis

Ve eon
na |

a. Seciai Stcuti te 9

Me

(Wren Futod fa)



7 NO EXCESS LwOR
4 =f IN PAY STATUS AT END OF WAITING PEHIOD

4 / LWOP STATUS AF END OF WAITING PEXIOD
CLERKS INITIALS Auviteo uy

1 CERTIFY THAT THE WORK OF THE ABOVE NAMED EMPLOYEE | 19.
OF AN ACCEPTAALE LEVEL OF COMPETENCE,

Bas

cfu BIS. eed

SIGNATURES

“ah 160

PAY CHANGE NOTIFICATION

reer ery
‘Chuan 3)



ADJUSTMENT OF SALARY MATE IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE

19, AS AMENDED, AND POLICY
FCTOR OF CENTRAL

SALARY CONVERTED TO RATE SHOWN FOR INDIVIDUAL'S GRADE
AND STEP A5 INDICATED IN CHART BELOW.

GENERAL SCHEDULE RATES
Federal Employees Salary Act of 1964

{ Per Annum Rates and Steps

RAD! ; =
saacadd Bae Lae a oi 718 if
$3,385, $3,730} $3,845 13, 960 | $4,075 [$4,190
4,055} 4,180, 4,430) 4,555
4,410) 4,545 4,815] 4,950
4,930} 5,080, 5,39 F
5,495] 5,600)
6,060; 6,245

59} 6,850
T,5L0
8,206,
8,980. ¢ 5
9,830, 10,715111'010/11/305

311,670) 12,025 |12,380)12,735/13,096) 13,445
5/13,755|14,175/14,595/15,015/15,435]15,855
16,620 O17 18,090/18,580
21,020/21, 590
920) 24,175| .-

oS
crema

121,
195 24,445



Hy ance {WOR Total ancans WOP,

Pot ines aaa cer eay

(2 te sw? wate at and of wating period,

WwEar0 Rona NO, N128e—eemes c
ZN Seb Pe toy en ones SR. cx gPAVROLL CHANGE SUP —- PERSONNEL coPY
: Rn a reste wee! Meet ster Be

A

¥

A,

SECRET
PSC: 16 FFA 62 (When Filled Ind He

oe NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

7 saat mane
CAO LFS
032620 4

7 wan (LASTAVAST wOOTE)

it

REGULAR

T iC O8 OTWER feat AOTWORIT
|

50 USC 403 J

1 MATURE GF Fitton ACTON

REASS IGNMENT

; Toews [ewe
aad Ab Ven |X [www [2135 5700 1000]

i LacATiow OF erica Mtatvow

¥ obeamiiaii 10m
OOP wi

ERANCH 3
HMEXICO CITY, MEXICO

64700 i We

Wei

FOS

plsseeetes a ctirh of Cla

|
|



SECRET

oooh tm,

‘you of the fol
‘S WATURE OF RETIN yore ¥

‘6 EFFECTIVE DATE | 7. CIVIL SERVICE OM OTHER LEGAL AUINOATTY

EXCEPTED APPOINTMENT(STAFF AGENT)

5 Crd

Byaneh 3,
deo Zity, Mexico Station
Projet: LIENVOY

0 City, Mextoo

ae Tp teeac ar sioene
coamen

ae i Gag take

are



i



iene

- -
is Officer

Operation:

___. [1 February 1971 - 31 October 1971
PERFORMANCE EVALUAT! i _——

separotion, Deseribe ection tobea

SARSESTSTT cou'd range fromm counseling, to further tra
(ot proposed in Section C.

deficient 1» nome arpsets. The reasons for evmgmng th
winded should be described.

tabatoctory. Densed results are being produced on the ma:
Perdomance w characterized by excaphenat prefievemy.

Performance is 10 exceptional ia relation to requirement of the wuil and in comparises to the pecdemonce of others doing simbar
work ot fo wattent special recogeitiom,

sohing should be shotad in Section C ond vemadia! actions

pected,

10 sin of the most important specific dutioe performed during th
Jmonmer in which omplayee porlorms EACH specifiz duty, Consider ONLY elfectivane:
with supervisory responaibilitias MUST ba rated on their ability 10 4

1. Insert rating letter which best a:
thet diay. Ail oon

aT RET
Maintenance and repair of al] equipment used in the joint
JKLANCE/GOM tolophone tap operation.

TRC. GUT y Noe
Respoasivle for
on a daily basis

: dug over,

Biv Girie bury we
Protection of our equity in this important operation by Py
performing his duties ina manner which the GOM could not ime

_piiiplicato.— 7

Yadntaining good personal reJationships with the GOW personnel

Jnvolved in this operation so as to enhance the overall

effectiveness of the operation.

TFacivee ou

t and secure delivery of materials
adminis (vation of projvet monies

the eft iets

gaisdesissipasascobeescpnconauasnuianl |

Soave a

ity, earive? or fod, caeper
Boned un your taowladge of empleres Terlormenia Saieg the tering parted,
place the ferror ts the roting Sas cenespandiny ro tng statement which mus) Ovsworely tatlacts hie lovel of petherwance.|  S



Indices wgnifigam atrenohe their relation:
ovecell performance. Se for tatming., Comm
wn bocton 8 to wrovide bev =

earelection. Monat vt Berbers fytlgn ond
secant ord lade, mest. 68 Spo pov te needed we complete

so! eecvonnel._:
jegivon C, ottach @ eepm Spee

Pe.
The ratings tivelk tlinis report are not meant to indicate a change

. in Subject's overall fitness and effectiveness ‘in this operation, but
rather, a rofloction of the reporting officer's Interpretation of the
letter grades themselves. Subjectcontinues to do an impressive job :
in a task that to fimost would be far from personally rewarding and often
very frustrating. fae

The equipmont which he maintains is for the most part at least ten
years old and requires constant maintenance and the use of improvised
parts. Subject has used his ingenuity and senso of responsibility to
improvise and keep the operation going. There has yet to be, to our,
knowledge, a moment when operations have been suspended due to his
inability to kvop the equipment going. This in itself is an act worthy
of recognition.

Subject has nover missed a meeting ner has ho ever complained gbout
special meetings or special assiguaents due to operational necessity.

He is often tho first to call the attention of the Station to matters

of operational interest which occur outside the normal working day.
Subject has always been aware of fhe Stations equities in this.
Operation which transcend tlic operational and technical aspects. He

has always demonstrated this awareness in his dealings with his local
counterparts. They have personal respect for Subject and count him

as one of thomselves in all respects.

SECTION D, CERTIFICATION AND COMMENTS
Seeeeesr cate BY EMPLOYEE

TCERTIFY FAP THAVE TEEN VECTIONS & ANDES sea
sare Signataae OF BuFi ove ee

7 December 1971

3
wou THe em or
UNOEN MY SUPER YIBIOW

CTU OF orem oe

Whitin tt Cohfe
7 December 1971 | Operations Officer , sf

ESuUENTE GP REVIEWING OFFICIAL

197L Chief or Station

SECRET



(continued)

He has frequently been mado privy lo matters which would
not normally be revealed to the Station or come tothe Station's
attention in the routine way. This 1s due to lis closeness to
tho indigenous personnel] connected with the operation and thoir
acceptance of his “in” with the powers that be.

Overall, Subject contributes in a vory strong way to the
operation, Without tim the operation and the-resulting
relationships may well have been lost some years ago. It is
hoped that his porsonal desires will lead hin to remain with

the project for some years to como.

‘I agreo to nil of the above. ‘Those who are unaware of it
should know that subject spent many years, until last January,
having to work with an unpleasant, venal, untruthful, and lazy
suporvisor of tho operation. . (Tho new presidont fired Him.)
Subject went through those ‘yoars of unpleasantness without evor
losing sight of the agency's noods. Now, circumstances aro
more pleasant but subject is as keen as evor to bo sure that
the work: is dono in a way responsive to our requirements, Ho
has done fine work over the yearn and he maintains the samo
high’standards for his own performance and this influence
carrios over to his Mexican opposite number. If am convinced
as ever that ho deserves a promotion as he has in tho past.

Hi has ‘been six-ahd-a-half yoars in grade since 23 May 1965,

to he exact. We utting such a recommendation forward.
(Pieaso noto that he is being given an overall S. Tn past
years he was given "O's". The change j4 not in his performance,
which is as fine as ev2 We simply are not throwing O's

around.)



| a NO6RIO

Torr ciae voUTioN AN :
Operations Offic er

OCHEER UF) TYPE OF APOONTORNT,

PORT Dur a

30_ November 1972

SECTION B

teben or recommended should Le described,
Ptyeotelint Perfomance ia whlactony, Desi result ore being produced sn the manner expected:
S-Song Fettormence «characterised by exception proficiency.

work ube werent, pees

tequirer emedcte ond poutive remedial iachon, The. nature of thé othos |
te further training, te plocing om prsbatcs, to teerigenent ot te ueporation, Drserbe oxtse talew

Veemence defeat we enact The teens fr evgnag tha vaieg shuld be ated i Sethon C ond samedi exons

O-Detronding —Pehormancn itv ategtia in ltion fo regurement ofthe man ond a rompacon.t hy pevarmance of ethers ding umar

apecitic duties performed during
manner in which employee sarsermy EACH specilve duty. Consider ONCY slfer
sith supervisory responsitriones MUST be rated on thelr obility #0 supervite [indicate mum

SPECT DUTY NOT

Staff Agent physically located witin a BKCROWN|

lof our equities in this operation

technical operation responsible for tho day-to-day protec

serrhn

Wr civic Buty Wore

Rusponsible for ¢
ed in this joist operation

ee complete maintenance of all teehntoal equipment H

BREE DOT EWS. T

Tochnical supervision training of fourteen

Srecinic Date NO.®

ite overall effectiveness ann

Maintaining good personal and managerial relationships with the
personnel involved in this operation for the purpose of enhancing i

ieee nue wos

na daily basis

wsponrible for the socure and officient delivery of all materials

Sreewie ooty

2,000 US dollars monthly

lesponsible for the accounting and administrative functions
Ee conta in this cperation which Eaten funds totaling over

2 kemdvet an job, esoparat
particular Hmitstong or tales, Dused en you krowlagge ef employ
pinee the Lotter sa the rating Suan cevees2andiny "9 the starement which mei

Sanaa ta hia currant go
t pevenal
encieg sverariey ported) B

sovaly vaulecta his leet of partormacce.

fo heb

we aS ie SECRET



SEO

Section B % posse
Hy duos ond e596 tamer

eraonnel action. Menmes ef portare ff
eof petenens pete seeps! sand fend. fret bee €or wwace te needed we complete
For the record, 1t must be tated that the rating officer has only
worked with Subject sinco 26 Juiy 1972 and the ratings listed im Suction
B are intended to cover tho poriod of 26 July through 30 October 1972. +
Howover, it is also stated at this time, after having reviewed Bubject's ;
last two fitness reports, that BSubject's former rating officer who :
departed PCS in July 1972 would probably concur in the ratings fur. the |

entire time span of this report.

Subject has been running the same delicate operation for the past
twelve years and his performance then and now continues at. the strong to
foutatanding level. Subject is constantly, on the dert to protect our
equitics in this operation and this alertness is clearly demonstrated in
the way he handles hia rolations with his Mex$can counterparts. While
thoy treat him as “one of thom", they do not everJook the fact that he is!
BKCROWN and the inside suporyisor of the operation. :

subject's ability to maintain tho outdated and overused equipment |
in this operation is outstanding. Wis high degree of capability in |
equipment maintenance 1s definitely a monoy saving factor to the opera- |
tion, Subject maintains a first echelon maintenance program and has a |
fixed schedule for dismantling, examining and repairing worn parts before,
the equipment actually breaks down. His perseverance in the maintenance !
Progrom has saved the operation from ever expersencing n complete loss. of:
~~ CERTIFICA TIO AND COmmE pt: = ee
BY EMPLOYEE

i
i

Mer SaT AT HOF

GRIME RUPLOVIG Wad Oe aw
ERM Mey SUPERVISION

Tate Tar rician WT LE OF suPKiviON .

6 Nov 1972 | Operationy Officer

ir av ei viewinoF ee
CcaDenTE OF we vieaING OF

The comments and ratings abovi. are an accurate » description of 7
Subject's performance. I have been in & position to,review his activi-= |
ties over the past thrée years and I have found his work to be con-
sistently nigh. Of particular note I find his coacentration on details -
in reporting and dccounting, his availability for emergencies, copera-
tion and ability in his technical specialty to be commendable. Suhject
has been in grade since May 1965 and is deserving of a promotion. © ie
will continue to make such recommendations.

of Staten

SECRET

Nov E sputy Chiet



FITNESS REPORT - wQguaty :

SECTION C_ (CONTINUED)

coverage due to an overall technicul broakdown of the equip-

ment.

Subject has a promptnoss and security consciousness
about the entire operation and making clandestine meetings”
with his inside case officer that manifests.a high degree of
professionalism in his charactor. ‘His dodication. to getting
the job done rapidly, efficiently and socurely is yet another
example of his professionalism. He works long and often extra
hours withort hesitation and is always available when called

upon to perform special tasks. ie

Subject handles the black bagging of funds and the admin~
istrative functions of this operation in an excellent manner.
His accountings are well prepared, detailed and always sub-
mitted on time. The accountings always roflect Subject's

cost consciousness.

In summation, Subject executes all six of the specific
duties listed under Section B of this report in a very strong
professional manner. Subject is a definite asset to the
success that this operation has onjoyod over the years and
his absenee from the scene for any prolonged time would have
adversely affected the oporation,



;
i
4

snc scmnmga ns ap

poe oe

Spectited

Hoe Ue
fewods a
Q ieeH- HOt FH -

: ce fo
Bop per Fl eo ee,

Hace sine P i
4 Aaa Sl leceaee dueiey A ate api.

5
v



ieee en SECRET fanaa -

Sar iaciae (¥aen Fitted bod ‘ _
: EMPLOYEE SERIAL NUMBER
aa 006830
Fema

ac Trae) DATE OF BInTA [POSER ape oanbe
12 Apr 19 iy GS-13.

FOF r/biv/ne OF ASSIGNMENTS CUMMENT STATION

[Reacnve iwi eay,
Came EmPROVINOWAL (See inviructione = Section ©) K jewnoae

iat Goecin Stat? Agent 1 __|erectac (pectin
1. DATE AEPORT OUE IN OP. . Ti. REPORTING PERIOD (Freee to)
30 November 1972 1 November a ~-_30 Septomber 72

PERFORMANCE EVALUATION

vaaceepteble, A rohag
unneling, to farther
©

The nature of the 9
hon. Describe action talen

Performance calegery requires smmediot

inng, to placing on probation,

ech. The reasons for ottigning this voling should be stoted in Section € oad remedial-actions
ommended should be dercribed.

Performance is satisfactory. Desired results are being produced in the manner expected.
Parlormonce is charesterized by exceptional predicieney.
Performance is n to requirements of the work and in eomparizon fo the peelormance of others doing siniler

SPECIFIC OUTI

List up to six of the most importont specific duties nectormed during the rating 04
monner in which ew ploves oerlorms FACH seecifie duty. Consider ONLY affect
parvicnty taspoe MUST he rated on theit chiluty tm supervite 110

TEC IC uTY Woe

Staff Agent physically located witin a BKCROWN|
techn2zcal operation responsible for the day-to-day protcetion 8

fof our equities in this operat

Responsible for thé ‘complete maintenance of all technical equipment
lused in this joint operation

Porras THO

ffechnical supervision and training of fourteen Mexican agents

Picirie DUTY NOL® ~ pReirnentrs + *
intaining good personal and managerial relationships with the
personnel involved in this operation for the purpose of enhancing s
Kits overall effectiveness : ‘ :

TPecivic Cure no. s

Responsible for lhe: sécure and efficient delivery of all materials
pn a daily basis s

Breer Cure Aes 5
Resporsible for the account 1 administrative functions :
anvolved in th ation which includes funds totaling cver 8
S3,000 US dolla 107 .

ity, condver
at know



SECRED

eines ter

NARRATIVE COMMENTS:

Indicate significunt stvengtl
all perlormances Stat

# For’ ‘the record, it must be stated that the rating officer has only
worked with Sukjoct since 26 July 1972 and the ratings listed in Section
B are intended to cover the period of 26 July through 30 October 1972
Hovever, it is also stated at this time, after having reviewed Subject's
last two fitness reports, that™Subject's former rating officer who
departed PCS in July 1972 would probably concur in tho cdi for the

beaded time span of this report.
Subject has been running the same delicate operation for the past

‘twelve years and his performance then and now continues at the strong to

outstanding level. Subject is constantly on the alert to protect our
equitios in this operation and this alertness is clearly demonstrated in
the way he handles his relations with his Mexican counterparts. While
they treat him as “one of them", they do not overlook the fact that he is
BKCROWN and the inside supervisor of the oporation.

Subject's ability to maintain the outdated and overused equipment
in this operation’ is outstanding. Wis high degree of capability in
equipment maintenance is definitoly a moncy saving factor to the opera-
tion. Subject maintains .a first echelon maintenance program and has a
fixed schedule for dismantling, examining and repairing worn parts before
the equipment actually breaks dawn. Wis persevorance in the maintenance
progron has saved the operation from ever cxperiencing 4 comp

SECTION O

Tate

6 Nov 1972

aan Ter ete
URULA my suPeRvision

DATE JOP FiciAN TITLE OF SUPLAVISOR TVPCG GH FHIRTED RANE ANO SIGNATURE

6 Nov 1972 Operations Officer fst
eae Ee BY REVIEVING OFFICIAL
COMMENTS OF REVILwinG OFFICIAL 2

The comacnts and ratings above are an accurate description of
Subject's performance. I haye been in a position to review his activi-
ties over the past three years and 1 have found his work to be con-
sistently high. Of particulary note I find his concentration oa details
in reporting and accounting, his availability for neies, coopera-
tion and ability in his technical specialty to be com Subject
has been in grade since May 1965 and is deserving of a promotion. tre
will continue te make such rece: dats

dations.

aon

TG CH PuINFLD AOE ANE Te

Bare 7 ToFFICIAL FiPuR OF MOWIESING CF FiCtAN 1
6 Nov 1972 Deputy Chief of Station — /s/
Bier aeeeeaesstaeaeta 2 SECRET ae



FITNESS REPORT.

SECTION C (CONTINU) ;

coverage due to an “overall technical breakdown of the oquip~

ment.
. cece ¢ .

Subject has a promptness and security consciousness
about the entire operation and making clandestine meetings
with his inside case officer that manifests a high degree of
professionalism in his character. His dedication to gotting
the job done rapidly, officiontly and securely is yet another
example of his professionalism. Ho works long and often extra
hours without hesitation and is always: available when called
upon to perform special tasks.

Subject handles tho black bagging of funds and the admin-
istrative functions of this operation in an excellent manner.
His accountings are wéll prepared, detailed and always sub-
mitted on tine. The accountings always reflect Subject's
cost consciousness.

In summation, Subject executes all six of the specific
duties listed under Section B of this report in a very strong
professional manner. Subject is a definite asset to the
success that this operation has enjoyed uver the ye and
his absence from the scene for any prelonged tine would have
adversely affec the operation,



Ne SECRET \

(hon Filled Tn)

FITNESS REPORT 006830
ere
; oe
:

a, OATE OF ORTH TE TE
12 Apr. 19: M

Wovevow en oF auionuant

© OF riciae PestT Ow TITLS

Operations Officer

1 January 1970 - 31 January 1972

ERFORMANCE EVALUATION

Pectormanca is unacceptable. A rahag in this cotegery requires immediate and pects remedial achon, The nature of the echos
sould van from cova. t Frtar Wenig. fe placing on prchaton fo reomgnment ot fo separation, Onsrcbe acon faten

 propoved in Sachon
Pecormance in deRcian in vote expect The cies for onigning it vag cll be aated ia Seaton C and remedial onions
shen of recommended shooid be devcribed. H
Pedtormance is satisoctory. Desied revelts are being produced in the manner expected

Performance is chorocteried by exexptional proficiency.

Peclormanée’s ve exceptianal ia relation to requlremants of the work ond in cocapaiza to the performance of others doing simitor
work os to wortont special etogushon,

ng the roting period. Insert raving letter which best describes the
apecific duty. Consider ONLY olfectivoness in performance of that duty, All employes
bility te deporvite (indicate nuader of emplayece surecvived.

seECIIe Bore ne, T

Maintenance and repair of all equipment used in the joint
JKLANCE/GOM telephone tap operation.

Responsible for the efficient and secure delivery of material
on @ daily basis’as well as administration of project monies egy
totaling some $3,500 per month.

secre DUTY NGS

Protection of our equily in this important operation by

fe . marin
cere

performing his duties in a manner which the GOM could not s
replace, _

‘i i" Cais

Petre Ooty were

— - > Tatise
: Cerren

SPECIFig DUTY HO.

7 : : ae 7

PPaciFig OUTy Hose

Toke into sec oun
formance of
porrvevlor Wer

the ating
of perfor

°

ff AB senecare meenocs sommons



CRET

(teen Filled 10)
RARRAVIVE COMMENTS

‘cuteant pe:
of work

SECTIONS __

perspective their roletionthip to

5 demanstroted in

ui:
ol paper.
It would be natural toNsxbect} sail tHe rating officer after an
additional year of working on a daily basis with Subject, would

cease to be so completely impressed with the performance of this
individual; in the normal courge @gyevents we all tend to slip here
and there and on occasion do less than our best. However, reflecting”
back over these past thirteen months I can honestly state that
Subject has continued to do an exceptional job of near perfection.

He has not missed or been late for a meeting; he in each instance
brought to us the materials we have needed; the basehouse has
continued to run like clockwork; he has, in sum, met each and every
requirement expected of him.

Invhis day-to-day performance Subject continues to save us a great
deal of money not only by being economical in the way he purchases
and uses stippliés but additionally ‘by keeping equipment in operation
which is not used any longer in any JKLANCE operations. (Visitiag-
technicians always amazed to find the equipmeht both in usé and
functioning substantially as it was on the day it was installed).

Ina less tangible way we are in debt to Subject for the invaluable

contribution which we believe lie made in maintaining our equities
i ‘i -continued

CERTIFICATION AND COMMENTS:
7 2 ‘BY EMPLOYEE
T CERTIFY, THAT I HAVE SEEN SEGTIONS A, 8, AND C OF THIS REPORT

"Bi Feovuary 197)

MaNT as EMPLOVEE nas BEEN “Tnis REPORT WAS NOT BEEN SHOWN TO EMPLOVEE, GIVE EXPLANATION

UNGER MY SUPERVISION

BFE OF FCIAC TIVER OF TaPERVINOR THES OW FF
2h Feoruary 197. Oyerations O?ficer. /sf
1

‘BY REVIEWING OFFICIAL,

MENTS OF MEVIESING OFFICIAT
At first glance I find the ratings in Section B high and wonder
how he would compare with other technicians doing thé same work even

though he is performing in a very professional manner. From the
technical standpoint he has kept the operation alive through... -.
perseveranée, hard work and a high degree of technical proficiency. .
His ability to get aleng with his Mexican contacts and the degree of
respect they have for him is very commendable. Not having the
opportunity to compare him with other technicians, doing the same job
under identical circumstances, it is difficult to find a fair rating.
: : -continued

PED SH PUTED NAME AND SIGNATURE

/sf

Tare TCE SF RETiEMING OPFICAT

| Deputy Chief of Station |
: SECRET

Bate

2& Kebruary 1971

aa —



SECTION C NARRATIVE COMMENTS continued

an this basic and important activity through the recent

chango of government. There is little doubt in our minds : .
that the new principals of the GOM appreciated in a very “
genuine way the professional standards which Subject alone

Was responsible for in this operation (their own :
representatives had been less than effective) and opted i 4
Without hesitation to continue with us in the operation te

and to retain Subject in his position as the individual

technically responsible. ‘i

Therefore, we look forward to having the services of
Subject indefinitely and so long as it is in his own
Anterest to remain here; we know it has been, is now and
will continue to be in the best interest of JKLANCE.

COMMENTS OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL :
The Station needs him, cannot do without him and cannot

find any fault in his performance. Perhaps from his
limited technical standpoint he is outstanding.

DUPER



SECRET re

(anon Filted In)

EMPLOVER SERTAU NOMOER

FITNESS REPORT
Sc-- GENERAL,

i. DATE OF BIRTH [P BEX ]s. ORME
12 April 1919 M_ | GS-13.
7. OFF! Ivan OF a

DDP/WH/Branch 1

‘EECK (XI TYPE OF REPORT

006830

then satisfactory. A rating In thia category requires
ction. The neture of the ection could tangs from counseling, to further taining, to placing on
Jignmont of to seperation. Desctibe action taken or proposed in Section G.
quirements. It Is entirely setlefoctory and Is characterized nelther by deficiency sor

Forformonc: from wholly Inadequate to slightly |
positive re

probation, to
Performance mects alt
excellence. i
Performance ts more than sotiatoctory. Desired results are belng produced In @ proficlent manner,

Performance ts chasocterlaad by exceptional proficleney.
Performance #9 $0 exceptionst in celotion to requirements of the work and In comparison to th ot
sthora dolag slailat work on to warrant speclal recognitions to the parlermence

2_ SPECIFIC DUTIES

toting period. fnsort toting letter which best describes the
fF thot duty. Al

1x of the most Important specific duties parformed ducing t
[monner in which employes performs EACH specific duty. Consider ONLY effectiveness in
[with supervisory responsibilities MUST be rated on thelt ability to supetvise (indi

SPECIE BUTT NO. T

Maintenance and repair of all equipment used in the-
joint RVROCK/GOM telephone. tap operation.

Ter cinie GUT ROLE

Responsible for the efficient and secure delivery of
large quantities of tapes, transcripts and equipment on a 9
daily basis. _ if

Warne

SPECIE CUFT NO.»
Carter

Responsible for the control, expenditure and accounting

of about $4,000 per month for salaries and equipment of s
this project .
SPECIFIC DUTY NO. a
Protection of our equity in this important operation
by performing his duties in a manner which the GOM could s
_-not replace. : L
Cree

SPECinG DUTY NOS

ccna TSI)
terres

SPEerT BOTY Noe

Toke into accaunt evor thing about the ampioyes which influences his affectivensas in hiz current position such 03 pots
fermanes af rpecitte dutins, productivity, canduer on job, 0 (pertinent portonal ta ins, and
pornculor jons or talents. Covad an your knowledge of employee's overall performance. during the rating period,

place the t ‘the tating box corresponding ta the statement which most accurately raflacrs his level of porformance.|

£25 45 use easvrous enitions SECRET fest



iTicont stvengths ar weaknesses Jemun
ode ter

nt for twstent pon

jonnec of

fun 2

4 September 1969) that Staff Agents SEA be granted a
Quality Step Increase in recognition of “the outstanding performance
of this individual in the LIENVOY operation. The QSI was recently

approved.

As noted in our dispatch, and in previous Fitness Reports, the
original equipment installed in 1959 is still in excellent condition
after 10 years and more than 50,000 hours of use for each machine,
This is due, exclusively, to the conscientious and.skilled maintenance
of this equipment by @aamand has resulted in a substantial
saving of funds for RVROCK.
t

° nick is exceptionally responsive to Station De aieal (his
accountings. are flawless; his work day begins before dawn to permit
early pick-up of materials; his maturity and flexibility have
permitted him to work a decade with liaison typos who are not
"finest") and we are looking forward to his remaining here
indefinitely. Practically speaking, he is irreplaceable. This, we
feel, is a uniquely productive and successful "deep cover" case.

iP THis REPORT HAS NOT BERN SHOWN TO EMPLOYER, GIVE EXPLANATION

ORTH MPC E Wal BEEN
UNGan wy sueRRviNod

DATE inane JOPFICIAL TITLE OF SUPERVISOR
____8 January 1970 Ops Cfficor oe Fereneramernneennien|

BY REVIEWING OFFICIAL

CoimAENTS OF He VieaINe OFFICIAL,

a in his rather unique capacity has
indeed been exceptional, it should be clearly noted that these

ratings reflect, more than anything else, a moasure of his performance
. in that unique (but highly circumscribed) capacity, a performance
which would be hard to match. They should not be interpreted however
as a relative grading o: a8 compared with other more "broad
guage" personnel at the nainc lc level, It is for that reason that
the Station did not recommend for promotion, but rather for
a quality step increase which was approved,

port arte SF REVIEMIND OFFICIAL [TYPED vk PRINTED NAME ANO HONATURE

6 January 1970 | Chief of Station

Bare

| asl

SECRET


- ee
a SECRET

: (anen Filled tod
oe ToarLOTeR SERIAL Mun
FITNESS REPORT 006830
SECTION A GENERAL.
Te NAME ait Tieddte’ 2DATE OF OINTH [h OER [4 GRADE T a

12Apr19 | mM [68-13 __D

7..OPe/OIV7AR OF ABDIGNMENT |S CUNAENT STATION

Sor riciaL Pos Tion-t}

Ops Officer DDP/WH/1
"heueen a) Pere OF APPOINTMENT Te ennen AT
XX Jeascan meeenve Tewronany ae
ceorry
a fapeeliyh

cian (ieeclfyii

Vi. Data REPORT GUE IN O- Ta, REPORTING PERIOD (Prom Tod

1’ January 1969 - 30 Jane 1969

CTION B ERFORMANCE EVALUATION

We task hen sotistactory. A raving in thie cotegory requires
Ing. t0 further trelning, te placing on

iment of te seperation, Desetibe action tehen e” propoued in Section Ce

A+ Adequain Performance meets all raquiremente, 1 1 entirely setisfoctory ond Ie chorectoiined neither by deficiency nor
excellence,
P- Proficient Performance 18 moca thon sottstoctory. Deslved results ora boing producéd In a proficient manner,

$+ $rong Performance 1» charactorlted by exceptional proficiency.
0+ Qutstanding at In nt s of the work ond In comparlsin to the performance of
} ~ to wartant special recognition.

id ___ SPECIFIC DUTIES :

List up to elu of
manner in which
with supervteory

“8¢aPP’ Agent responsible for the day-to-day protection of WOPIRM
equitios in tho supervision of a joint WOFIRM/ :
technical operation. 8

THI Cipie bury wort Fins
Cerven

ting. letter which best de
that duty. All employoos:

performed during th
forms EACH specific duty. Consider ONL:
jes MUST be roted on thelt abi

| Technical suporvision of cloven (11) agents.

SPECIE DUTY NO
Maintenance of the technical oquipment used in the joint
operation.

TREC IC BUFF
Responsible for the accounting and administrative functions

involved in the joint operation. 8
Wacirre ourY No.8 i ae resp

SPECIFIC OUTY NO.

na 43, pertinent personal traits of habiv
Wveralt performance dusing the rating gariod|
‘his level of pertorovane

Bosed on your knowledge of oF
10 the lerter in the rating box corre spending to the atoroment which most accurately roflec

ZaP" 4S use previous corions SECRET

|



SECRET.

SECTION C

Indicate significant wren ythe
Hote s099

Wi stevived hecerteat fovtoien, Reotity
Tsclon’"onnet ebpgrisnrsnce ol manegette

Subject Staff hae continues to bo rane ou peda swe Officer for
the LIENVOY Project, a position he has“Held rbr'the Tast 9 1/2 years.
This assignment requires that Subject work full-time in relativoly

close quarters with Mexican assets. He hag. adapted well to such a&
working arrangement and has developed a smooth and efficient working
relationship with the assets involved in the day-to-day LIENVOY

activities.
He and his family also have adapted well to living conditions

demanded by his non-official cover and have caused no security or
administrative problems for the Station during the tenure of the

present supervisor.

plain tetings given in Section B to provide beet
eh vd cont consclowsngey,
b heeded t eon}

Tiente space

As the primary technician for repair and maintenance of the LIENVOY
equipment, this officer has been outstanding. The equipment has

operated more than 50,000 hours since its installation and remains in
good working condition. His ability to instruct the Mexican..personnel
in equipment. use and operation is attested by the hours-run and prosent

condition.

This officer's tasks require that he be on the job by 0700 -hours

each morning in order to arrange, log and deliver the product to a
=continued~

SECTION D a CERTIFICATION AND COMMENTS.

8Y EMPLOYEE
T CERTIFY THAT | WAVE SEEN SECTIONS A, 0, AND © OF THIS RE
slaWATORE OF SURLY

_ BT SUPERYISO!

ferrin Te oF ara oR FEES GR PRINTED Nau Ano ONO TORE

30 June 69 Ops Officer | /3f
Scene Be REVIEWING OFFICIAL =

SRGENTS OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

Because of this Staff Agent's fino performance and the contribution
he makes to the smooth-functioning of the LIENVOY Project, the
Reviewing Officer concurs fully in this report and recommends that
Subject be considered for promotion to GS-14,

FYFE 70 SHINY ED NAME ENO Slam TORE

Winston Scott /s/

= T Tr OF wEvEaTRS OFFEAT TP
30 June 69 Chief of Station H
SECRET



SECTION C NARRATIVE COMMENTS - continued

Station Officer by 0800. He has not been known to complain about .
such early working hours or the long hours involved.

Subject also is responsible for paying the salaries of the

assets and accounting for operational expenses and local procurement.

As mentioned in previous Fitness Reports. he is very «rat-conscious
+ aud diligent in carrying out his administrative responsibilities.

This Fitness Roport should be considered in conjunction with

the last Annual Report which was forwarded in January 1969 and which :

is still valid as far as ratings and narrative comment are
concerned. 7 :



SECRET

FITNESS REPORT

GENERAL,

Te ate Ss are

1. awe Teeet (Fired Toate)

SOrFIcIAD PORTION TITLE

Op.

Petlermonce ranges trom ghally inode qvers 7 “T.
positive remedial ection. The nature of could range bom: counselling,
Srobatian, te reassignment of 10 soperetion, Describe octon Nan or proposed Ie Section C.

A- Adeavate

excellence.
P.+ Brofisient Perlermance is more then sotlefoctory. Desired results are being produced in 9 proficient monner.
5+ Strong Performance Is characterized by esteptional proficient.

ta raletion 10
19 warrant special recoghition,

O- Quistending Performance Is 46 axe:

othera doing: similar wor

List up to etx of the most Importont specific dutles partiemed during the raring erled. Insert rating letter which bext dev

me EACH
ryluory responsibilities MUST ba rated on thot ability 10 supgrvine cmb:

(giniumder of axplovess euperesend

A rating in thie category requires
10 hatther welning, te plecing on

Performance moots all requirements. H 18 entirely satistortery and ts eherocterized noliher by deficlency ner

‘ic duty. ‘Consider ONLY ofieccwenehs in performance of thet day. All employee

aiulroments af the werk and'In.comperlson to the potformance of

ie BUTT wa
Staff Agent responsible for WOFACT interests in supervision of a complex
technical operation.

SPECIFIC OuTY NO,
Supervision of eleven Mexican agents

sraciric DUTY HG. 4

PEC GFE RG, @

ara
Cir ret

aPacimie DUTY NO. ®y

pit’

ceries

ns
= OVERALL PE
Toke Into account everything abuwt the employes which Influonces hls aflecsivenoas te Mts currant position a
foxmanee af soacitic deien, prodvctisnys camivet on job, gonpatsivaenn, re-vrer, farte-al trate @ habit
porticuler limivasions oF talent, Based on your ge of employee's semat corternance during the tating aaciod
lace the letear In the reting baz corresponding to the rtatecant which moni ectvcorers Peller? his lavel of potlormances

eet

SECRET ee

8 EDITIONS

fom 45 use pay



SECRET

(then Filet fey
WARRATIVE COmmESTS
demonstrated in current powiseun heezing In

work partarnonce. Give

itae Tahara a itaat aera
Tromeryenh HOPE AIe BW Seas conse
oP Ysera ot eo cotle ie SISA re a needed we socpleree

SECTION C

Indicote significant strengths
overall pertormonce, State ay
on toreign longvage comperen:
bonis lor determining husure

9. Comes
HBB se provide bes

inde
Shetion & etivch w aspaveie
For the past seven years, this officer kee deaths louthiad Hebloreicer tor
the LIENVOY Listening post. fle vas promoted to Gé-15 on 23 May 1965 and he
continues to perfors his duties with exceptional proficiency particularly in the
care and maintenante of the technical oquipnert. This edbifetféthas run for

ever 35,000 bours without « eajur breakdown.

In addition to maintenance of the equipaet, this officer dispenses funds for
payment of agent salaries and operating expenses.

‘This officer vorks continuously with indizeuous personnel and has aaintained
He has adapted well to ae outside and to the

@ smooth working relationship.

life of a Staff Agent.
2 During 1966 this project produced 8,644 reels of rav take and 18,766 pages

of transcripts which accounted for a consideracie volume of positive intelligence.
This project has been cited by Eeadquarters as outetanding for its production.

of positive intelligence and for the procedurs used in processing the rav take.
‘Thie officer's performance has gade a major ecrtripution to the effectiveness

of this project.

TERED GA PATE NANA ANS TWAT ORE
ey ¥izston M, Boot
7 wy Or rica =

Bary

17 Jan 1967

3.

EORGERTT OF TET CaN OFFICE
This officer has performed oxvellentiy in the runhing of the
LIENVOY plant and tn this regird { concur with the above, It is my
impression, howaver, that Archart could improve effectivencss of
the-unit by better acquainting himself 9iib station objectives and
rolaiing this to day to day ops. I have discussed this with him

and-COs.

War RRS aS ar

ogres

3 March 1967 Lo CARL
SECRET



. . Gat SECRET

Ganon Fitted Bn)

feweLover SEmiAL mUMBER
' FITNESS REPORT [ 006830
SECTION A GENERAL
Te name Toast Tire Ghali) 8. OATE OF BinTH [a BER je GRADE TO ID
19S OM | al D
TOFe/O17aR OF AISIGNWENT|E. CURRENT BTATION

DDP/WH/) | Hexico Cit

x (X1 TYPE OF REPORT

PERFORMANCE EVALUATION

Partormance tangas, from wally inadequate ro slighty lous shop wotistctery< A rating in this cotegory requlron
“poultive remedial ection. Tha nature ef the action could range from counseling, to further training, to placing on
probotion, te reassignment .of teseparation. Describe cetion token of proposed In Section Ce

Perlamance meats all requiremants. 18 entirely setisfactery and Is charsctertued neither by, delleloney ner
‘excellence.

A> Adequate

P= Proficient Performance (s more then setletectory. Desired results cre bélng produced In a proficient mariner.
5+ Strong

°

Partormance ts charactorized by excoptionst proficteney.

+ Qutstending Porformance 12 s0 oxceptional In ralatlon to requirement:
others doing simiter work a3 te

19 work and In comparison to the performance of

¥ special

_ SPECIFIC BUTIES- ‘a

performed during the «
ich omplayes performs EACH specific duty. Consider ONLY
fwith suporviaory responsibilities MUST be rated on their super

Jn performance of thot-duty. Al

Staff Agent responsible: for WOF IRM. interests in supervision
of a complex technical operation, :

period, Invert esting letter which West describes ihe

PaTIR Ie OUNY NOE 7

Supecvision-of eleven Mexican agents,

PETE CUT RET

Malntenance of technical equipment.”

BPecirie OUTT NO

spaaiie Rae Re

a inte cctount everything about the explores which inftyances fi
we of soscihe dutten, prodeetivingy comtue? an fobs coopera’
peiticuter limmatsont ch valonte, Dasad on yous Lnovledge’ of woploye

40, pertinent Borvemel
S overall pertoraance. dusing the roving coried.! — $
Mee level of perlarsene.

So" a5 we eee



CRET

(ehen Filet tay
NARRATIVE COMMENTS

tiga keeping In oropat serapective helt relation ship to
lor: ive recommendations for

SECTION C

2 oF weaknosses demonstrated in curren
Suggestions mode for improve fe

= zi TH
r has been the outside real in LIENVOY

Project for the past eight years, He was promoted to GS-13 on 23 May
1965. His outstanding contribution to this prejectuls the maintenance
of the equipment. He also protects WOFIRM's Interest Inside the LP and
provides the Station with all copies of the take on a daily basis.
Supervision duties of this officer are Timited to handling the
advice on handling records, and dispensing funds. He pays

machinery
the salaries of eleven local agents, purchases spare parts, office
supplies and pays other expenses such as utilities and rent. Most of

these are fixed amounts but subject is prudent in the use of funds for

operational purposes.
Subject has developed a work Ing knowledge of the languaje sufficlen
for routine communication with the local agents. He has also adjusted

well to the life of a Staff Agent. .
The only weakness In this officer's assignment is a lack of real

cover anc administrative handling, He is dependent on the Station for
all funds,- including salary and allowances as well as an-operational
revolving fund. ~ During subject's assignment of eight years there has
been no security problem as far as his lack of cover 1s concerned and
no funds Have been lost. This officer is a very consclentious worker
who puts in long hours(beginning before seven a.m.) In the fulfillment
of his various casks. ‘His performance makes a major contribution to
the effectiveness of this project. 7

SECTION D a CERTIFICATION AND COMMENTS

BY EmPLOVEE :

“CERTIFY. THAT | HAVE SEEN SECTIONS A, B, AND © OF THIS REPDAT

BFE SrgnATURE OF
168 Jan, 1968

Wawtwe GUPCE-EE nay Be eW
UNGER MY SUPEmrisicn

ovre ES Tite oF au

The Seviewlng Officer concurs completely with this cecort,

Z

[ This REPORT NAT NOT BREN SHOWN TO EMPLOTES, CIVE EXPLANATION

TYPED OR PAINTED HaMd BuO VGRATURE

Ann_L, Goodoasture

officer ts a vital part of a proven operation of jreat
valua co this Station anc to wOF IRM,

SAC TIRD OF Bi viewinG GFFIEIAL TTTHED OM PRINTED Want Sed SOND aE

| Chel of seatton evince pce

SECRET

16 Jenvsry 1968



SECRET

pe :
SECTIONC NARRATIVE COMMENTS (CONTINUED)

his requests. His ability to supervise the proper handling of
the equipment is again verified by the number of hours each
piece of machinery has operated. Subject officer has a working
knowledge of the Spanish language which onables him to conduct
pertinent conversations with the local agents.

The officer is responsible for paying the salaries of the
agents, local procurement and other operational expenses. He
has proven to be notably cost-conscious in carrying out this
responsibility. His monthly accountings are accurate and sub=

mitted in regulation form,

Subject officer's overall performance makes a major contribu~
tion to the effectivenoss of this complex and valuable technical

project.
This Staf£ Agent was promoted to his prosent grade on 23 May
1965,

SECRET



Z a SECRET

FITNESS REPORT
0v6830

GENERAL

SO Ee Ch
12 Apr io | Mm |os-13!

7. OFe/aiv/an OP ASDGNUENT |S. CURRENT BTATION

Ops Officer . DPPAWH/2 | Mexico Cit
TEECR IA) F¥PE OF APPOINTMENT Tf cnben (a) Tree OF REPORT,
cares [[petthionuens sureavison|

[RX Faweuae —_.__] _jreatvionsann ewpcoree |
fe i ares z

WW oaTe ReronT ous INO, ae
28 Fobruary 1969 iE 1 January 68 thry 31 December 68
SECTION B. ww wf ERFORMANCE EVALUATION

W- Maoh Ferlormonce ranges. from wholly Inadequate te slightly lees then satisfactory. A roting In thie cotegory requires
Fositive remedial ection. The nak 22 Hom countallng, to futher Walning. to placing om

brobatlon, to 40% ‘ih Section
A> Adsqustg Performance macts-all

Trt Tiered

is excellence. :
P+ Proficient Parlormance.is more thon sortalactory. Desired reeults ore baing produced In @ profictent mannee,
$+ Song Porlormanco 18 chgrectortied by oxcoptionel profleteney.

0+ Qutstending 4 the work ond in comportton to the performance of

Insert rating letter which best deseribes th
3 In performance of thot duty, Ail
number of employers mupervined)

Imenner In which
with eupervisery

SBECIFIC BUTT wo. ESET

Staff Agent responsible for day to day protection of .WOFIRM
equities in tho supervision of a Joint WOFIRM/Linison technical 8

a operution.— ae said

ne QUT ENO, Be

Technical supervision of olevon Moxtean agents,

Sei CIeTe OTT 8

Scaereeree ma Fine
terrer

Maintenance of technical oquipment used in tho joint

operation,
BPEciFIG OUTY nor Sana ooF

Responsibie for the accounting and administrative functions
involved in tho joint operation,

Te Noe

porticuler Hmitarons of
lacs the letter In the rot

FOS" 45 wat enavious eorvions SECRET


SECRET

ceiee Fettge dad

NARRATIVE COMMENTS

rent position keeping In proper perspective thets relationship to
ecommanduticis for talaliag. Conevent

Anticate significant wengthe or weukn
grezall perlormance, State eeggr tions mode

et al popere

This Staff Agont 1s the outside, caso; offi¢éy) for the LIENVOY
Project and has had this position’ tbr fhe past nine yoars, As such,
he has shown the ability to fit into tho unofficial life required and
to work full-timo in relatively close quarters with indigenous

personnel,

Subject officer has shown an outstanding ability to diagnose equip-
ment problems and to resolve same in an oxpoditious and thorough
manner. This is ovident by the fact that tho equipment has operated
almost 50,000 hours without a major breakdown which would cause a

closure in the coverage,

As the outsido case officer, he protects WOFIRM's interest in the
baschouso and also logs and delivers tho product to tha in<Station
case officer on a daily basis. Becauso of tho porishablo nature of *
the product, ho must roport for duty before 0700 hours each work
morning in order to log and. doliver tho production to the Station

contact, 2. .

This officor works continuously with indigenous personnel and
supervises their uso of the equipment. Hoe has developed a smooth
working relationship with these agents and they are responsive to

(continuodD
SECTION D _____ CERTIFICATION AND COMMENTS i
ore : EMPLOYEE
iEY THAT I HAVE SEEN SECT

Tau oem

larriciaAL THVLE GP SUPE ANISOR “[F¥Aed Om PR TRO HAME ANO SIONATURE

vA

we

LSiaaTHTe GF REVIERIG OFFTETAL

The reviewing officer concurs in the rating given for Sopeifie
Duties and in the Narrative Comments in this report.

The rated officer fills a very important and difficult job for this
Station; ke must spond long hours at tedious work, live among middle
class natives and protect WOFIRM's intorosts and yet have the rospect
of the natives with whom he works,

He has done all this well.
Me should be considered for prometion to GS-14,

'VEED 9° PRINTED NAME #1h0 SIOHAT UAT

See TSEC TALE OF EVENS PPT
eeeeeae i cae {Winston M. Scott __/s/
SECRET



ATK OF ATE
(Moe ar Tose

[part i

mrt
eearerteD

p34 Open Season 12/1~30/66

Triplicate —To Enptoslex Onice

1


SECRET.

[eave (Ueem tte 5-3)

TO Of COPLETED bY DOLOYEE
iT PORTION, TITLE 4, B¥ATION om

Enveeves oave oF Fine To acvoat Te buTv
MEER IAT HO

S, PERGOWAL CIRCUMSTANCES THAT BHOULD BY CONDIDEAEO 1 DETERMINING BERT ASSIONMENTH

*

@. Ui87 VouR uasoR DUTIES DURINA CURMENT TOum (ave special nate on trananittal form).
(alzo sttech poseonal cover queatlonmalis In accordance with CSIP 240-8)

Staff Agent responsible for supervision of 30 line telephone intercept center,
with responsibility for all administrative and financial aspects of the centers

Responsible for the supervision of 10 Mexican agent monitors and transcribers,
maintenance ani serzico of all technical equipusnt used in the project, and
for the delivery (clandactinely) of thie inportant and senaitive intelligence
inforwation to tho Nexico City Station.

303 202 ¢ SECRET



SECRET ‘i
Ti parresence pow nee? aogionvraty z
Vie) Grace ray eatasiy taF F¥rt OF extant iF bisiteta? Pauw Fant

He UTOE RO, H ROWE, TF YOU ave WORE THAN ONC ParrrerMCE, INDICATE YOu CHOICE.

Ve. ImoicaTe iF Vou O€INE TO EATENO vOUR CURRENT TOUR Oy CHECKING IN At
fom MEAT GeouLan agesouutnt BY Inscating §, 2, 8 3 (for dat, 2nd. anc
COMPLETE ALL ALTERNATE CHONCES AND OPTIONS IM ALL CAB
Tous.

O cxrene tour uqNTHE AT CURRENT STATION TO

Teaver .

BC AISTONLD TO HOGTAS FOR A TOUR OF DUTY! INDICATE YOUR CHOICE, OF DIVISION, BASF Ow OFFECE. :
AST cnotes. IND CHONG eee ne AAD CREE a

OC ANSHONEO TO ANOTHEH FIELO STATION. INCICATE CHOICE OF GLOGRAPHIC natA Of SPrCraLI TATION
IND CHOICE = 389 cworce

Qa

RETURN TO MY CuRREMT STATION :

To BE COMPLETED OY FLELO STATION

Vm CONSIDERATION OF THE EXPERIENCE AMO PEMFORMANCE OF Twe EMPLOVEG AMO WD PRIFEBEMCE FLW WE/T ASEIGHUENT,
INDICATE YOUR RECOWMFADATION FOR 1D UEXT ASSIGHWENT AND TRAINING?

iz

- a the emt of bie present tour on 20 Saptesbor 1966 1% 4a mequasted that
ARIMAR? Bo ellewed to teks esa math 's baw leave ia ths 9.3.4, onl rotum
Tor exothar tour in Soxtes Clty 4a tha smo Jed he preadnhly deca es wcll.

Ta, EW COMTIOGRATION OF Tod GxFEBEENCE AND PERFORMANCE OF Tha {WPLOVE, WIG PREFTAENCE boa wea? PEE oHUEAT,
amo THE QTADEING REQUIAFUFHTS OF YOUR COMPONENT, INDICATE YOUR COMPONENT'S ALEOMMENDAT IYO F7¥ wis WExT

ASS aIeENT AND TRAINING,

anted wowe leave and return
muoeee .

Nt: Division
to Mexico City as he Tuguests and as COS

—stosaTune
fon ust ay caveee seavice i

care 22 JSand6 vince

Te APPmGVER ASS TORMENT

proved: hone-leave- fal) of 66.and ature to Maxton Clty fap thind tay es
nd 5S1 eaten

Tar eb Evee sorrento Sy ol aPaten ma Baas

cater

Aimee

east wo.

cater 21 Poh, 16h

a aemvice azreescwrarive

SECRET



SECRET

caren Felted tmp

; EMPCOvee seavaL NUMBER
FITNESS REPORT 006630
a.

“GENERAL

ae re tahini peat a. avace” Te! 30

i 2 Apr_1919, GS-13 |p

or “CURRENT STATION
_.Ops_Officer i

Tiare saront OuE in O.P. Wa WePORTING PERIOD (Fram to)
28 February 196

1 ju =_3) December _196:
; FIOM PERFORMANCE EVALUATION i

7 7 Avaing in this cotegory
t tt The ining, te placing on
: A> Mawere

P + Proficient

i $+ frong Performance Is choracterized by exceptional

+ Duastending Performance 18 $0 exceptionel in relation to teguicemen
oa others doing slmitor wark 3 "

List up +0 six of tno most Important specific duties performed during the rating
[more In which a parlors EACH specific duty. Consider ONLY
with sugared sory

Er Toure

Toe fol that duty. All empl
cupertino,

;

Staff Agent responsible for KUBARK Interests In superviston of

a complex technical operation,

PPecirie DUT wed

Superviston of ten Mexican agents.

Maintenance of technical equipment.

2 WutY hoe scorn

sarything about the empley

formases of specitve dutlas, preduetlyity, conduct on
particular lisitutions of iglents. “Based on your knowled,
pleco the fener In the r9}

In his currant position auch aa pers | SETTER
vant personel. traits or habits, and |

of employee's sveral! performance. duting the eating porlod,
‘box corresponding te the statement which most accurately reflects his level of performance,

eooperativensss, p

i Le

i A( PREVIOUS EOETIONS, SECRET


SECRET

denen bite! ta)
NARRATIVE COMMENTS eeu
iroatees demonsirated in current position keeping In prope

mont of work peslormance. Give vecommecedlntoa
1» Amplify or azploin ratings
ance of managerial or

SECTION C

sory duties ond

ble. a) 20 Al "9g

This Staff Agent Is the outside case officer for the LIENVOY Tisten=
Ing post, He was promoted to GS-13 on 23 May 1965 andyhe ifgatinues to
perform his work with exceptional profictency. Bic eeiiaee

For the past six years, this officer has worked copsieuel iy with
this protect under unofficial cover with only indigert régonngl, He

cquired legal working papers In cover arranged-by-the Station, He
h improved his knowledge of the Spanish language to the point that he
can communicate with the agent personnel and understand most conversatl

This. officer arrives at the LP at seven o'clock each day except
Saturday and Sunday and remains there throughout the day except for
meetings with his inside case officer. {In addition to other management
duties, he dispenses funds for payment of the Indigenous agents 3nd ex-
penses for operating the qulpment and base. He exercises cost conscious:
y shopping around for spare parts, persuading firms to-give discounts,
and by ordering from PBPRIME, The equipment is kept if excellent conditipn.

Theré-has been no major breakdown in the Squipment despite the fact.
that It has been In continuous use for over seven years. Working rela-
tionships inside the. LP. have been smooth without personallty clashes or
security problems. Both of these attest to the excellent performance of
this officer In’the duties assigned to him.” During 1965, this project
Produced 8,51} reels of raw take and 19,960 pages of transcripts which

my fo he _S! S_pO:
LES an est aoe ree Skat! iy COMMENTS — amount reg (x operat
11. data on Soviet and Soviet orbbu emrcovee’ intelligence officers station:
1 1 CERTIFY THAT | HAVE SEEN SECTIONS A, 8, AUD C OF THIS REPO

Hank Cane Of PMMLOWEE

Loree MAS BREN
UnBEw Mr subeR vistow

ai tae

GP Fecal Tye oF suRERVzoR ~~

winston M. scott /e/'

12 Januery 66 ! chief of station Hy

: Bae “BY REVIEWING OFFICIAL, oe
errictse Subject provides a distinct to. the Station,
rticularly in that his arduous but very repetitive duties confined to a
bry Limited group of indigenous personnel operating in extreme security
strictlons, requires personal characteristics not easy to find, I
fobably would have made th individiial ratingein Section B a bit lower but
the same time recognize that this Staff Agent would be extremely
fficult to replace by anyone as competent in the maintenance of the
uipment. I believe Subject would be even more valuable if ho could
ply more 4magination and initiative in relating’ the Project take to
orational potential,

Obpoanores

Be FiCIAL TITLE Ge NE ViRMiNa Be Hein “TT TRED OR BRN

CAWH/L Wide kaufnia
SECRET

pare



SECRET

(Phen Filed In)

FITHESS REPORT

ENERAL

2. OAT# OP alate

ageil 19

or oxy

tale 06-18

i ‘Gee 7aIv/en oF absomuENT

Canten STAPF aT

Trea oF REPORT

cet Town

AE ataanmunt/sureneiom

Important specie dies rlorned “dust

perlorms EACH specific Contd
bilities MUST be roted on thee abil

braciric OUTY NO.

civic DUTY HO. 8

lopeciric DuTY m0. ®

HOF OVERALL PERFORMANCE IN CURRENT POSITION

hon = pertormanen cf apneific
wweticutae limitations of talents. Based on

3 most 1 ayire-reats but 12 doflelent a ona ar mare Importanb reepoetty

iy ments vo:

Fac

ior

sare

4S oetovave cacvious eotnions.

SECRET

w


SECRET

hen Ratio fee
SECTION E NARRATIVE DESCRIPTION OF MANNER OF JOB PERFORMANCE

Jengthe and weaknesses demonutrated 19 cuttent position. Indicate sagge.tions mide to ema
IW eomeptiare, bre oxtenttal for d ond
teen age given SECTIONS B, C, ond Oto provide the best ba

Fame personne! actions.

fees
fee ne?

Thio officar bas cdapted himsolf to the role of staff acant tn a ost

menor.

ead pi gpircrard nelly dairy peaponde irate ered Aro er yess

resce TO WAME AND SIONATUME

su TUL C OF REVIEWIN. OFFICIAL ©

jor
i 23 gen ary 196 ' Gniae of tatton ! {af Winaton ite Sooke
SECRET


ee a SECRET
SEGRE.

whe WA ‘NESS REP! ‘a
RitD FITNES$ REPORT ; : a Gel

GENERAL

2, DATE OF & Ma

Apel 12, 1919

UPFICIAL POSTION THTLE

Operations Officer

sequent wT/eUPERVIBOR

pevenane

DATE REPORT DUE iw O.r, FeEnioo
The 1960-Feb. 1961”
SECTION 8. EVALUATION OF PERFORMANCE OF SPECIFIC DUTIE:

List up 10 +12 of the most Importont apecifie duties pertormed durin

manner In which employes perlorms EACH iv. Cone ie peel of th All employees
‘with superetsory reapensibilition MU
1 = Unsotialectory, [ 2: Borely odequate nt
faraciric ovry 40,4 ‘aa tna | apucinie OUTY.No. &
Staff_Agent Responsible for is i
Outside Superviston of Technical
..-Operation. goencuanerenienes a
seucirie DUTY ma ®

sPaciric OUT! O.z

Maintenance of Technical
Equipment

~Cenpatont 5 = Gxcvilors [b> Superior [7 ~ Oraranding
parva

creer
Noe

aPucivic OUTY NO. > Ravine
Noe

Reporting on Varlous Phases of
Technical Op,

EVALWATION OF OVERALL PERFORMANCE IM CURRENT POSITION :
LaMarca or tolerte, Bsvad oo,
in cortonponiag to the

Hela, pe om (rb, coapmeativanats, partinant eersonal traits se
HT preslormurce ha rating gerlod, place

re a
1a hie level of paricmanes.

+ Perfomance in many impertant seapaets fails 10 me
[ Parlormanes macta most requ
+ Parfurmonce cleutly meets

joorly exceeds baste requlcer

‘every Important re

OTHER (Speci
SGU REVERSE SIDE

SECRET

ow

tae 45 cosove re eaevious aortons.



SECRET
case Batted tay
~_NARRATIVE DESCRIPTION OF MANNER OF JOB PERFORMANCE

ot:tion. Indicate au ge
‘opiestate, his potential f
va‘tn SECTIONS B,C, ond Di

“SECTION €

Tons.

‘This officer ts an extremely willing and hard worker, From the technical
standpoint hls performance is satisfactory in every sense, He devotes long hours
to keeping the equipment in perfect working order and Is always willing and ready
to acccpt any extra assignment given him regardless of his personal and family
commitments, His principal weakness is his almost total inability to write clear,
concise reports, Becatise he lacks aggressiveness end due to his limited knowledge
of the Spanish language he has been unable to provide first rate case officer control
over the LP under his commiand, This is at lcast partlally due to the fact that the
indlgenous personnel resent to some extent being under the control of a PBPRIMER
and prefer to take instructions from the Indigenous case officer (LIENVOY/2),

This is not because of the KUBARK Case Officer's personality but because of pride ,
of nationality, As a matter of fact, this officer haa a very pleasant personality

and gets along well with his co-workers. With respect to this officer's potential

and future development the rating officer recommends that at the conclusion of

hls present tour In June of 1962 that he be reassigned to Headquarters for extensive
tralning. hls tralning pertod should include baste english, reports writing and

trade craft, If he ts to continue as a technical case officer he should also have

further technical training depending upon his future assignments,

CERTIFICATION AND COMMENTS:
EMPLOYEE

Shhef of Ops
BY REVIEWING OFFICIAL

pare

OFFITIAL TITLE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL, erent NaMe AND S10WA TURE

1 Feb 61 Chief of Station i /s/ Winston M. Scott
SECRET


A
:
i
:

2 Miyeds a frets oh

Mesias afpeeel


eet

ADMINIS

28 June 1973

MEMORANDUM FOR: Mr

THROUGH 1 Chief, WH Division

SUBJECT 1 Certificate of Merit

1. Ism pleased to notify you that the Certificate of Merit will be
conferred on you in recognition of the excellent service you have randered
thie Agency. Security considerations relevant to the award ara explained
An the attached memorandum from the Offies of Security,

2. The award will be presented to you at a coremony to ho held In
the near future, Members of your family, Agency associates, and inti-
mate friends who are aware of your Agency affiliation may attend,

3. Invitations to the ceremony will be extended by the Executive
Secratary, Honor and Merit Awards Board, extension 3643, room 412,
Magazine Building. Please send to that office the names and phone aum~
bers of tha yuesta you would like to hava invited, and indicate any dates
on which you would pet be avatlable for such a cerernony.

fs; RL. Austin, Jr,
RL, Austin, Jr.

Recorder
Honor and Merit Awards Board

Ate

Disrcibution:

® w/foem 690
1 - Exec See/HMAB
1 - Recorder/NMAB *

ANE



4-00000

oy

wpe Fao 2536

DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
OFFICE OF THE ADJUTANT GENERAL
U.S. ARMY ADMINISTRATION CENTER:

ST LOUIS. MISSOUR! 63132

LO USAR: T-07-23191 . . . 10 July 19€7

SUBJECT: Active Duty for Training

To: ieod EE 5 640 454% SIGC USAR Con Gp (Mob Des) USAAG
Apa: 7 0 Admon #41

Mexico City, Mexico

TC 1S. By Gerectron of tne Secretary of gne army, you are S3DEPED TO 4
time secessary to perform travel. Travel indicates 15 necessary in
+0 enier attached in sufficient time to report sn cate scecifie

tef cuty £c? TasrNins fie the period incicated, gtus any
vtitary se: You will proceed to the argenizatior

Satisfactory camctetion of tne perizd 9? active cuty
tor treming inaicated, unless sooner relieved or extenced Sy oroper authority. you ali eatara to

Guty for training ang stang rel-eved therefrom. Travel by cuttic carrier (land, sea, or airs 53 ae
station order ifavel of Gepencerts ang snipment of cermaq change of station werrtt a
chenge of st {Ror ized, tngevidual clotning iteas 11 your posses: :
in accorcance eth prev: instruct At least one copy 07 orcers will de carried on person +
to Oeparting for ‘tne & 1g Site uP eturn Rone.

Y 2 =121§ _ P3221,2000-11, 12 P322€.0000-21 £49032 ON AA-C370
Accounting classification: RE eee EA ip oe poe he 3

weight allosarce

fom

rometiate nossessren sutsecue’*

Attached to: USA Element (SD5888), HQ, USSQUTHCCM Quarry Heights, Canal

Security clearance: TOP SECRET
Zone dy/w Intel Directorate J2
. Reporting Place: See attached to sherity: 1G USC 270 (a) (2)
Rome of record: Same as above MOS: 2226
Social Security Koz 12 gays

Period of duty? (ect of tvl time)

Basic Pay Entry Date: 3 Jan 41
Special Instructions: PO making payment under the above allotment will mail 1 copy of the paid voucher to:
CO 1646 Mob Dsg Det (STAFF: JICS) P. 0. Box 24, Pt My:r Station, Arlington, Virginia
22211.
BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE ARMY:

Reporting date: NLT 0800 hrs 17 Jul 67

DISTRIBUTION:

cS Plus
10 JICcs

Adjutant General

a


‘ = SECRET
FIELO REASSIGNMENT, QUESTIONNAIRE

oats (irom View 89)

28 Jan, 1970

ovsratcu wuwpen, |oate wecervto By Cabete stavicer

HMMT-10,114}
TO BE COMPLETED BY tXPLOYEE
a avatvon on bast

2 February 1970

3 caver ron
nant COVER

1, Gate oF o1ntn ff. scavict] 2. vous CuseeaT Position, Fite
ano mace

‘DDP|Staff Agent - GS-13

te, wequesteo bate OF
DEPARTURE

S188 DATE 10 wEPORT To OUTY
area Leave

Ge, DATE oF PCS ARRIVAL
tm E00

June 1260 28 August 1970|~ 5 October _1970

7, MUMOER AND AGES OF OEPEMDENTS eWO WILL TRAVEL FITH YOUs

wife

(@ PEMSOWAL CIMCUUBTANCES TWAT SHOULD BE CONTIORAED Im DETERMINING NEAT ABBIGHMONTS

Unocal vate on tran
Wh CSt-# 340

$B. £157 vOUN MAJuR UUTITS DURING CuoMenT Toue ¢
(algo attach poreonal covne quest bonnatee bn arcordence

Staff Agont responsible for supervision of LIENVOY baschouse
dncluding all technical and financial aspects of this operation,

OULU HAVE DURING THE WER] EFVCRAL YEARS



‘
1

SECRET

Beriite Tae Pvee OF woeR
WaOTRw Mg. FanOvE, TF vou ave me

TOUD Perdew FoR MEAT USSTOMOTAT 10 EPFERENT FROM THAT INDICATES
Tnaw Os Pareaaeeck, INDICATE ¥OUR CHOICES

Fon WEAT REGULAR ASSianwtNt AY Instating t,
COWLETE ALL ALTERNATE CHOICES AND OPTIOND 1
Tous,

1 exreno tovn_____wontaa ar cunaene station to

ALL CABEE RVEW THOUGH YOU ARE REQUESTING 4m EXTENSION OF YOUR

Ct assicnco ro wocres rom a TOUR oF Bury: INDIEATE YOUR CHOICE OF DIVISION, STAFF OR OFFICE.
Isr corer IND CHOECE. 2Ro choice

INDICATE EMO1EE OF GEOGRAPHIC: AREA GR SPECIALIZATION
pag enor

DOE f2tent 72 asermen rvcen station,
va cHOrEE, AND cHOsEE,

RETURN TO My cudMENT STATION

“TO be ConpLeTen by fia STATION

Taw CeNEIOERATION OF Tr? FAPERTENCE AMO PAF ORWANCE OF THE LUMLOVEL AND HS PREFERENCE FOR WERT ABSTGNMENT,
INDICATE YOUR MFCOMMEADATION FOR HIS NEXT ASSIGNMENT AND TRAININE®

It ig strongly recommended that QEESEF return to Moxico City
for his next tour, As indicuted in bis recent fitness report,
he is practically dvroplaceable,

To aE ConPL ETO GY APPROPRIATE NEADQUARTENS OFFICE.
{CAND PEAPORMANCE GF Toe CUrLO\EE WIS PRUFF RENCE Faw NEAT AVS{GNMENT,
UADICATE YOUR COMPONEN E'S RECOMMENDATION FOR MIG MEXT

Dieatiow OF The caPems

AND Tee STAFFING AFauIREWEHES OF YOUN CONTOREMT,
ASSIGNUCAT AMD DRAINING.

SIGNATY _

"FoR Use By CAREEH SERVICE

Dy ESLER ST OTP OPT

: case 40. as

cagtin Stavice wEpReseararives

Teveviieser



ia SECRET

S$_Dec, 1967

Sisverernowete fb :
FOINT-8546 PEK
To SE COMPLETED BY OPLOYEE

4. eate oF cunt [F. eeavice] ®. vous comment position, THLe | 6. STATION OF BABE ¥. cave von
Ofston | | ano caane : cuRnERY coves

12 APK 1919 DDP| STAFF AGENT -GS-13 Mexico City Commercial

oo. Date “‘anivat [oo. acqueeteo oare oF | ee. care
S GRECR IM AT MO, ANTeR Ucawt

ae oF Fined Oo. EO GATE TO REPORT TO DUTY
rite OnranTuRe ?

June 1960 13 May 1968 | | . 17 June 1968

OF DEPENDENTS ono WiLL TRAVEL WITH YOu)

[if Wife, son,

Your wason buries ous
Teh eSt-P 249-8)

Start agent responstble for supervision of 32 Line telephone
interecenl conter, wilh res ibility for oll administrative
and financial aspects of the center.

Hesponsible for the supervision of twelve Mexican agents

and maintenance of the technical equipment used in the project,

aimima cesinior
SATE HAT TRAQHING YOU BELIEVE VOU SHOULD MAYE OUIING Tne NEXT JEVERAL YEARS

ve 292 i



SECRET
The PRI Umtnet Fon wert ass ienwenTy _

vs Tos tae Teak GF wote ven WOULD FeCHT® Van ursT AEEVERWIAT IF OIFFERENF Doom THAT INDICRTE® :
TP ABONE. IF YOU MANE WEEE THAN OME PREFERENCE, FMDICATE YOUR CHOICE. :

jeate ir vou ‘
FoR MEAT acute a:

COMPLETE ALL ALTER
oun,

cated tous wontns AT CURRENT STATION TO —

{Mt atstcnco to wooras roe 4 Yous oF OUT: INOIEATE vouR CHOICE OF OIVIStON. STAFF OR OFFICE...
tsF cwoter, 2nd CHOICE 3a cHOICE >

Ly eynestenee 12 anetmce eaeue station, sap rcaTe crosce oF EEOERAFINE ABCA ON SPECIALIZATION
Vat cores, — IND cuore su eMoICE

XEX ceruen ro wy cuseent station :

. YO BE CowLereD oy FiELO sation

: T2. tN CONSIOURATION OF Tot EXFERJENCE AND FEBFORWANCE GF THE EVFLOWE AMO WIS PREFFRENCE FOR WIRY ASSIONMEAT,
INONCATE YOUR RECOMVLMDATION FOR HIS NER ASSICRWENT AND TBain #0!

It is vory strongly recommended and requested that this officer be

allowed to return to his present position for another tour, after hone
leave.

He would be one of the nost difficult persons In this Station to
replace; ho is peculiarly and very excellently fitted for the exacting,
difficult and very key job he occupies.
aust aa “ro Sf _comeLerio oF :

2, CW QENSIOEMAT TO) Gh TRE EAPO TEM) ANS PETURMS CE 7 Thereaow k FOR REAE ASH

ARO Tht STAFFING REQUIAEMENTS OF THUR COMPONENT, INOIEATE T2u8 COMPONENT'S RECOMUCYDATION FOU JIT
ADD nctiCut AMG TEA ems.

Wii concurs in Subject's request for home leave

in May 1968 to be followed by a new tour.
nach pale GS rinuCZWH/Personnel s:cysruee f

Foe USE gy CAREER SERNICE

Ta. APPHOWC® ABSIFOI ATS

i z SECRET



—_
SECRET ad

FIELD REASSIGNMENT QUESTIONNAIRE

GUARTENS USE ONLY

ot_COMPLETE tae

Sl kerunticarion or aiewatumes ano TeAtION OF sTf)

g ate Crow Htow 9-1), waur OF suPemVIBOR (true) loatt (hres tee 8-3)15)
oe] ,21 June 1963 Winston M. Scott 21 June 1963
[ast are ce egatuns or orrenae at WLADQUAATERD a Df | oat

G[tetiry oara tn svews nos. | tanovew 7, stCon? 19 Aug 1963

3 oe

ommieTi wy twee

1, DATE OF GIATM) a, GRADE a. CURRENT POSITION TITLE amd GaADE
ie
12 Apr 1919] G5-12 Stet Agent | aly CRO

ci Suse row F153 05 1964
ere) 7e. CxPECTEO DATE OF ama ivaL
AY meapquantens Pcs

Gr OTMEA GuTy STATIONS om FIELD

None =
Fe. wavte a ocecnrPtiom cy voun wajon nuTIES DURING Tri CummtaY TOUR OF DUTY (vee epectel note on Fransalital Fora):

Staff Agent reponsible for supervision of 30 line telephone intercept center, with
responsibility for all administrative and financial aspects of the center.

Responsible for the supervision of 10 Mexican agent monitors and transcribers
and maintenance and service of all technical equipment used in the project.

ereRtnce FoR NEXT as
we Te DFVCFIm FOR YOUR TAT aot tGuweut IF IT OLFPERS FaoW
ADVE. FF YOU Mae Wi8E THAN CHE PREFERENCE, INUICAIe TOU CHOICES.

TaAT 1NOICATED a

1. Assigned tu WH Division, Mexican Deek, as desk officer with reponaibility for

technical uperations,
TSS Division, asvigned te Wi Division desk.
3, Any position where it is felt that [ can best serve the organization,

Ve Woy SMOULD wave Em CeOIZ 79 INCREASE YOUR VALUE TO THE OmrantiAaT

rAT THAIMING YOU
sateiog of coucses, Lf avastedle):

Te PReuseus SECRET as

133 202 33

TPS REED TERRA TCNT REN oR



Serrcrcty
tere to.

Aesrayre 10 meabuuastens fon a TER oF DUTY.

oC apron

HOt, enorer, wo. cvetce, aio. cwnree

2 aRD 2 fer tet, Ind and Jee ederced

1 ANscomwtn? & pustetine suweres ?

vous ener
ators

CD te tuen re wer quem atari

rte anwerer to PosstDLe Assicnweet om mescouanteas,

CATE cHoree OF coMPonENT:

tr cworce WH=Mex Deskese, eveice TSS= WH Desks. evorce WETS

b srarion,

TO amotNr isto station. ertm atsrect so PORSTOLE ACASSIOANTAT TO ANOTHER &
RAPHIC AREA G8 BPECIFNC BTATEOR, BADED OM QUALIFICATION

CATE CHOICE OF

T tweteare THe

VO. MSW WUCH LEAVE OO VOU DEAIAE OL Tettm aggtexeruTe? 30

Wife; Son, } Son, :

INOLCATE muwere oF Bone Cavs
Va ewe WA Oe TaAvEULE woving witm vou

Tras encteaTe am
absiocarat

au Om Fawnay Situation Gwicw SROULD

iY GwanGe tw ¥

Te. srenatunt,

econ Ty
Aeslanetat

Ta

tv

job of his preference as his next assignment,
in Mexico.

COMPLETE tVtm NO, O.1, Teawswitray SotT. VO teoIcATE CouPesTion oF above PORTION OF turn FoMm.

"TO AE COMPLETED 8) SiPERVISOR AT TILEM STATION
NCE OF Tue CUPLOVEE, wid CAPRESSTD PRCPURGRCE FOR mERT

Ties OF THE Past &
AND Uwe STAFFING OX, IMOFCATE VOUS AECOMEMGATION FOR MIS REXT AaLiGaMQnT

pecMTS SFM

out

It ie requested that, if at all possible, this employee be given the
He has performed excellently

nsioat_of present tour.

manda one year este ;
ce BRS oas agreed

subsequent corresponde:
the extension,

‘Nae oF cane

ROBERT D, CASHMAN

AH Stavick OFFICER OW PERBOWMEL GOP

are

Te eer ee
yas retneey

Tor teeuo oa eaIRTED Waue

Waa Ecjwas MOF geen WOTTPUFD OF Panag 14, aUFCuERCE
piararce no. caus xo, PU

pera

SECRET



SECRET
FIELD REASSIGHMERT QUEST IONHAIRE

\patccteee ieee actif seen or

21_June 1963)
aoqueatces

Winston. Me Scott 21 _June_1963_|
va

one

313 1aNG3 iw

-Apx 1919.

-Staflf Agent —
CUMALNT STATION ON F640 wast

—Maxice City.

9 O8 FIELD BABES DURING CURRLNT Tue

MATION (1 Bmown)

@ Ofwes out stat

Noae.

iesone ett (Ie) eIETEUEIEEL) [19 'aug 1963
BE CoMtTTO By twioveE
1. vale we giwin] 8, @nape Tor @tentat position Tiree ams ewace
Gea |

8. WRITE 4 BEACRIPT ION OF vou wason BUTIEN buNIAG Tmt Cobia Tove OF ovty (eee «

Staff Agent reponcible for supervision of 30 line telephone intercopt center, with
Fosponsibility for all ads.inistrative and financial aspects of the center.

Responsible for the supervision of 10 Mexican agent monitors and transcribers
aad maintenance and service of all technical equipment used in the Project.

Von Youw weet Atti cnur aT
tee PRECTRENCE, (MOICATE tour 4,

(90 OF wenn au BOWS Pat
WF YOu Wave MoEE tanw

on oP
THAT WOreeEtD Im ITM me

technical operations,
2. TSs Divistoa, agsigned to WH Division de
3. Any position whare it is fett that Leau best serve the organization,

L. Assigned to WH Division, Mexican Deak, as dea otlicer with repou. sinility for

PN 2027

SECRET



SECRET

a9 1, EAND B Ufa dat, Bnd end ded choice)

Ite RESPECT To PORSIBLE ASHIOMMENT In HEsDQUARTERS.

Me Aseronry 19 wtavoysesran rom & TOU oF DUTY,

WH-Mex Deokmn. cnorcr TSS2 WH Dasiers. encies  WE=S

19, enoice

CO MAIN Ene 12 anormre risuo aration, eimm ntsrvet to possiate eeanranurnt 10 aeoTwce FIELD ATATION,
INDICATE Cunicy oF GEOOMAPHIC ant, fCWPIC BIATION, BARED On QUALIFICATIONS)

10. enoree

198, eworee ano. cnoret,

7a. wow wuew LEAVE Bo You OEOIBE Bttaern Aspionutater j
INDICATE HUMDER OF BORK DAYS 30

Vi, INDICATE THE MUMBEO AND AVE OF OEPEMOEWTS WMO WILL BE TRAVELLING OR MOVING WIT YOU!

Wife; Son,

TROICATE ANY CHANGC JW YOUR PEBSOWAL OM FAMILY SITUATION WHICH BROULD GE CONSIONAED Im OETERWIL
AaBConMENT

(3 YOUR WERT

Ta, S1GATURE: COMPLETE ITfw A, 9-1, TRANSMITTAL BMEET, 10 INDICATE COMPLETION OF ABOVE PORTION OF TwI3 FORM,

1G SE COMPLETED RY SUPERVISOR AT FIELO STATION

piu Cousiatwatiow OF Tue PA31 CoFEAIEACE AND PERFORMANCE OF Tue TMPLOTEE. WIS ExPaeguED PREFERENCE FOR WEXT
ASaaNWENT. AMD Trt STOP Ino RTOUIMEWENTI OF THE STATION, INDICATE YOUR RECOMMENDATION FOR H19 NEXT AUSLONMENT

ana taatatnar
It is requested that, if at all possible, thio employee be given the
Job of his preference ao his noxt assignment. He has performed excellontly
in Mexico,

Hd a, OR, TaanMnTEAL SMV, 19 LaBIeat
1M AUPROEMIATC CANELH SERV ICL OF

‘abi veWAt GoW OF Tuk Fart EAPORIENCE amo PLNVORWANCE 9) frie EUPLOVAE,
ASSHOAMEGT AND Sok STAPH UNG REGUEEE MGI S OF THE COMPGNGKT TO MMILH ME FS CUKELNTLY ASBIEMLD,

RECCUMENSATIONG FGA mI3 WCET ASSIONMCNT AND TRALNINGH

Franstuner_ coureey

WIS GPREOSEO PREFERENCE FOR MEET
Tua reate vouR

ston of present tour.

te one year ext

Wo recommend
Ta subseq t correspondence
to the extension, .

VICE ASF IGGH UH PERSONNEL OFF tem

ve Nae OF cCanten 4

ROBERT D. CASHMAN

WAY Wer ELH ROTIFIED OF PLANaKO, 1, REFERENCE
7 f. DISPATCH WO. prone CAULE NOS oan tnnncene
20. stonerune

pate oar,

SECRET



15 March 1963

MEMORANDUM FOR: Bocretary, ©8/CB Agent Panel

SUBJECT: Recommendation for es = = = .

ar@®r brief service in|
with afferent staffs

entered on duty with CIA in 1951.
he performed a variety of functions
Vielons, thus acquirtrz broad

experience. ince June 1960 he has been on assignment in

Mexico City.

2. In Mexteqsisgiite 1a in charge of a very Large ‘technical
Gperatioa with several dozen exployees. The prodzstions of this
operation is tremendous and the technical probleus > te met are
intricate. saieereg manages the project and ite sey netive staff
experts smoothly. Wo probleas seen to arise. Security has been
maintained faultlessly. {f7etem ia a bold, bluff, «i hearty
nen without a worriecne fiber in his make-up. Ha is capable of
many Kinds of work and will try enytning. ies been io
grede ax n 8-12 for five years.

3. It 1a recommended thet=GSMREs be pronotei ty grade

8-13.

v

\

Je Ge axe)
Chief,

Western Heatophere Divisiea



SECRET

(item Felted En)

VERIFIED RECORD OF OVERSEAS SERVICE

Oo:
Office of Personnel, Statiaticnl Reporting Branch, KOCH 192 Curte

ike

Hall

| ae

OF FACE /COMPONENT.

EMPLOYEE SERIAL KO.

tat Tiast cre
penmesry oa
COS BO :

AT OATA FOR EITHE
GNATE WHETHER SUOMISSION 18 OF BAgiC DATA, Coma!
‘AOR THE WONTH, AND LAET THO DIGITS ONLY TOR YEAR,

INSTRUCT ONS

SOR TOY. INSERT APPROPATATE CODE nuMOre Iw “CODE* COLUMN
THON, OR CANCELLATION (One on/y). MEPORT OATES OY U1

mo THE

. 1 PCS DATES oF seavice
Tyee_oF bata CCITT aa biranvuee
ty Pea (haste) rage | 30-38 | 3230 a

27 conmct ion
aL cancetuation ©

06 |aS"| bo

TDY DATES OF SLAVICE

2+ DY Coste)
42 conusévson

TeMains

PREPARED AY focoenn ee tein

seal Davistow

Sica

oe 18S ta

SECKET yr@e
xe

tata



caste
suse en
ms
sant,

uncer sa.c00 ("Pi] $9409 10 89.90": {xg 3)
s10.000 os ows | $4)

PART B
HC HLS
aT TOD
wes 10
cou te a
ALTA BOMLEITS

ey PARE MUST

in gn vine bow,
i ogy tee

a0 8 ttED
eth YOU.
aanut TOUS

otra ty
a
sie,

Pos natal

ated ob

pacing #9 eaten for mare than ane rear? (tl newer

{



WEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, FI

SUBJECT. 2 Comments on attached agenda list dated 19 May 1960.

1 H@fA is the principal case officer and
technictan handling the LIERVO! operation ia Haxico City. As
you know,:we are avaiting the response of the Chief, WH division
to the Chief, FI 's recomendation, 17 May 1960, that we gradually
withdraw from this operation, I vould suggest that the proposed
change of status fostGzPis> fron SE. to SA be postponed pending
the decision re the future of the LIENVOY operation.



SECRET

(anes Titled tnd

VERFFIED KECORS OF UVERSEAS SERVICE

Office of Personnel, Statistical Reporting Branch, ROOM 192 Curfe Hall

rat OF _twPLOWEE T
wane

EMPLOYEE SERIAL NO. OFF ICE /CONPONENT

AE)
INSTRUCTIONS:

10 DESIGNATE eHETHER SUENISSION 18.07 BASIC OATA, CORBECTION, OR CANCELLATION (One onfy). REPORT OATES OY UBING THE
va NUMBER FOR THE WONTH, AND LAST T#O BIGITS ONLY FOR YEAR,

PCS DATES OF SERVICE
Tyee oF Oava aeaivaL DEPARTURE ‘COUNTRY

ves (Osetey
connection
CANCELLATION

TOY DATES OF SEAVICE

Tre oF bata ‘Girantone ne vom maeatSD

tov (Dasted v0 | 34-99
ChAMECTION pa.
EAMCELLAT ION

Layot GY

SOUPAE GF RECCRO DOCUMENT

| pisraten
t

[fives states ae re

CON EEESOS. IUEL TOL | vocoilint avestinie
ef 0

runans

ponete cD Om Atk VeiFita CORRECT, BASEO UPON SoURCE
ce Gocuminr Document ciTeo



SECRET

(hen Fitted toy

VERIFIED RECOS: OF “OVERSEAS SERVICE

10:

Office of Fersonnel, Statiotical Reporting Branch, ROOM 192 Curie Hall

awe OF EMPLOYEE OFF ICE/COMPONENT

orn
SEP _ BP

INSTRUCTIONS.

ATE space ettow To om tov. inseny ape: € COpE xuMBER
ESIGNATE WHETHER SURUISS ION (CTION, OR CANCELLATION (One omiy)., REPORT OATES BY US:
A FOR THE MONTH, ARO LAST THO

countay

2 CANCELLATION

TOY DATES OF SERVICE
T ar tuan Reals)

Tyre OF bata

TOY (Bante
coraection
D eancene ation

DUTY ATATUS OR THPL AND ATFENOANCE #EHORT

OOciMENT vOeNIFIeATiCN MO bocuwen? oaTererp tas

V23346 URL Pe 59

reverry

REPORT AWNorATea, OX Doove DAT VERIFIED COmMrCT. OASED UroW SaLMce
fneeanee oF Source oocuuent ocuent e170

Bisastes uate



10:

SECRET

(Bren Filled Ind

VERIFIED RECORD OF “OVERSEAS SERVICE 05396 tap

aR 14 SO

Office of Personnel, Statietical Reporting Branch, ROOM 192 Curte Rall

EMPLOYEE SERIAL NO.

NAME OF CMPLOVEE OFF ICE/COMPONE MT

riage wiper

oer

vat arraorata:

OMOEA FOR THE MONTH,

INSTRUCTIONS

RY OATA FOR CITWER PCE OR TOY. INSTHT APPROPRIATE CODE Nuun:
basic pat RECTION, OR CANCELLATION (One only). ACPORT 0.

Tier or oat

‘Counray

+ Pen (Mnete)
+ comercrion

1D CANCELEATION

TOY OATES OF SLAVICE

aieanten when] wate

é

ACRE REC UME T

oitratew

PALPARED BY

ORT AWNUTATED CM eaanect. Basro UPoW
uRce Gocuue NY DocuMeAr C1tED

‘SECRET tater

i



SRC

TRIS Is TO

TIFY THAT I AM AWAKE OF TITS PROVISIOSS OF

REGULATICN 20-265, DATZD 10 FRBRUARY 1959 CONCERNING THE PEROCRAL
Pe 4

AGE

EMPLOYUSS OVERSEAS,



§-E-C-8-5-T
: (nex Fiuled In)

198 Ne,

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Contract Personnel Division

ATTENTION :
PRON :

Deputy Director of Security (Livestigations
and Bupporty

SUBJECT

1. Reference ia made to the memorandum daicd 16 May 1960
“watch @ covert security clearance was requested to permit
Bubject's conversion from Staff Enrloyee to Staff Agent, GS-12,
DOP, WH/3, Operations Officer in Mexico City, Mexico in connection
with Project LIENVOY under non-official cover,

2. This 1s to advise tint a covert security clearance is
iranted for the use of the Subject, as described ia your request
ds set forth in paragraph 1, avove.

2.

3. Subjects of covert security clearances are not to re=
present thencelves as, nor are they te be represented as, enployces
of CIA.

ee voveré
pliance with
ir you
une ar

erevore
Parents
> covey at

We BHOULL we mubedt

tue event the Suo, cuts
ui Lie dkbe oF cats

fuss Clearances
are wo. utilize?

RIT:

SOX The DINECTOR OF



mel Ata? + Dec wrote

Qeeceder ‘yh

mie : he Wye tdeee
a v

7 a A gio tlt ls fo

J

rl ber “G Mitchie oe
