# 104-10105-10130

## Page 1

104-10105-10130

• ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUNECTs (Optional)

Manuscript by David Phillips

EXTENSION

FROM:

John M. Reeves, JIAR

C/EAB

7770

TO: (Officer designation, room numbor, and

DATE

building)

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

RECEIVED

FORWARDEO

DDO/SS/ Sec

3D00 (H. Kecugh)

42/22 сн)

*# see corments

John l. Reeves dro

C/EAB

RETURNTO QU

4.

5.

7.

8.

9.

10.

11.

=*

12.

NO. .

DATE

24 May 76°

COMMENTS (Numbor ooch common to show from sho

to whom. Dram a line derosa colume alter onch commeni.

Attached are Chapters 3, 5,

7, 8, 10 and the Epilogue

to David Phillips' book

"The Night Watch." Previous

chapter numbers are changed

as follows: -5 (Bay of Pigs)

is now 4; 8 (Dominican Crisis)

is now 6; and 11 (Washington

1973-74) is now 9.

Please review these chapters

for material that: : (1) is

classified, (2) was learned

while the author was a ClA

employee, and (3) has not

been placed in the public

domain by the Agency.

Concurrent revier is being

conducted by LA Div.,

Staff, CCS, DDO/SS/ 50G, OuL

DDO/SU, O/Commo (Chapter 1U)

and SE

Div (Chapter 8)-

The author must meet a

publishing deadline within

the next few weeks.

In order

the destine to seven ate

comments should be returned

no later than 11 June 1976-

Only coument by C/SOG re Chapter 7,.

p hu re

being CIA install

ation To our understanding, this

base has never been officially ackno

ledged as a CIA installation. C/SOG

also suggest NE Div and CAG may wish

revier. This package given to C/CAG

and returned with no comtentse

13.

14.

15.

FORM

3-62

59058

SECRET

J CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

---

