MO4AOMI34O162f aes CLASSIFIED MESSAGE fe

ROUTING

wid

pec 4
MICROFILMED

ta + DIRECTOR
FROM + MEXICO CI
ACTION: C/wH 5 (MR WHITTEN, WH AND OS NOTIFIED AND COPY SLOTTED AT: 1715 23 NOV Wa)
NFO + pct, b/0CI, DDP, ADDP, ea
oo He
SECRET aseoasz —{——__aut

IMMEDIATE DIR(CITE MEXI -7029 ee
Signed: MC:

RARER :
d . R.O. #1 - U

REF A. DIR 84888 # _—
SuuuSissahaisa/50S050505500001000057500000501570051 Note:

B. ° MEXI 7925 Lin 6709) Pe reasons aad coordinate

iff appropriate.

1... SAW PHOTOS OF LEE OSWALD ON TELEVISION NIGHT OF 22 NOV fhe IT
: My city

(VIOUS PHOTOS SENT TO DALLAS WERE NOT IDEN WITH LEE OSWALD HELD

» C/FI 2, C/SR 5, C/SAS 5, D/0S.2,:VR
RECORDS CFFICER STAMP

Joe 23love3N67 190°

DALLAS, DATES ARE AS GIVEN ON PHOTOS. i ,
"2, NEXI STATION REVIEWING ALL AVAILABLE PHOTOS PERSONS ENTERING
‘SQVIET AND CUBAN EMBASSIES.
3. NEXT SUGGESTING TO LITEMPO 2 THAT SILVIA DURAN WHO
“YEXICAN EMPLOYEE AT CUBAN.EMBASSY AND WHO PUT LEE OSWALD ON
TELEPHONE FROM CUBAN EMBASSY TO TALK TO SOVIET EMBASSY ON 28 SEPT
BE |RRESTED IMMEDIATELY AND HELD INCOMMUNICADO UNTIL SHE GIVES
(LL DETAILS OF OSWALD KNOWN TO HER. (SEE REF B)
4. LITEMPO 2 CAN SAY(D.F.S,) COVERAGE REVEALED CALL TO HIM IF HE

7 cu
NEEDS TO EXPALIN. here g APR I97S
SECR T

CONDUCTED. ON.
+] £442 Maver CL BY_CL22 Of
O

cs Comments: *Photos sent from Mexico City were not those o a
#Forwarded a review of LIENVOY (2} transcripts.
QO AITQ uy

5; DS 2ee -s7-Y Ne
fie ; a ou 63
Pocument “Se a-20 iS oOPY, =

Yor FOLA. Review on APR 1976 SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE 1S, PROHIBITED

