# 104-10250-10134

## Page 1

104-10250-10134

SECRET

YEMDRANDUM FOR:

Chief, DD/S/PPS

SUBJECT

Herman E. Kimsey

A RETURNTO CIA

Background Use Only

C0O Not Reproduce

circle

of my restence hotel to eared 190a te atta 2

who identified himself as & Mr. Davies ef the District Sales Office, Braniff

This men was totally unknown to me

until the phone calle

on the passenger list of Flight H9T), 8 March 1959, destination

Perue

te then proceeded to ask me if I would do him a small personal favor anther

way of an errand. In answer to my query,

he said that ho had a friend ins ther

Pan-American Union offices in Washington who had two (2) small books that he

do 80: Sere and Poten then told be ok at for vete, a Ra De!

so. Several

way to get the books to

told him that I was pretty mich my Own boss anc

usually dropped business in the late afternoon and went to the I.MC A for

exercise, returning to work in the evenings and as the "y" was neer the Pan-

American Union offices, Tcould easily stop and pick up the books during office

houns. Davies then said he would talk to the friend again and settle the

@Tangement. I asked him the name of his friend and he said it 16 Jayn

Hejarden, a member of the legal & Research Division, Pan-American Unlor.

Mr. Davles then changed the subject, to a degree and asked

8 not to that hit tin he but bo to devel ood to a

He said that he would be flad to arrange with "Air Line, Officialel In TIma, to

have me "speeded" thry custons and/or make any kind of reservations for my

personal convenience thanked him for this thought and told him to contact

ns at my hotel when he had made final arrangements for picking up the books.

notified of this

• complication 1n

for the operation which inflated the original trip.3

of ther samer

desk, is also a participant in this job and was made witting at the same time.

Tay a ost or interest to be informed of developments for purposes al arotatit

4o At 1400 Hours, 5 March 1159, 1 checked the Local telephone

directory, but found no name similer to Helerde. Telephone information also

reported no similar name.

C/OS/SSD,

and report this information up to date.

Winters, C/DD/S/PPS,

where I repseted the information. My instructions from s

SECRET

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECRET

• RETURN TO Ci

Background Use Oniy

LiDo No% Reproduce

- 2 -

03

ic. Winters consisted of verbal instructions to lead these people as far as

they are willing to go and obtein all information possible fron them.

5 Narch 1959, the list of person

a. Lon Fi. Thomas, Questioned Document Analyst

TSS/GARD/A&R

b. Richard J. Kuhn, Questioned Document Analyst

TSS/GARD/A&R

7 Secretary, TSS/GARD

f.

Will Potocki,

DD/P/SR

DD/F/SR

The Questioned Document Analysts of All are necessarily witting as these books

nay not be made available to me until & "late hour" and will have to be

processed in a short time. A situation calling for several skilled hands.

0800 Hours, 6 March 1959. No further contact made.

HER MAN E. KINSEY

Jemsey

C/ISS/GARD/A&R

Ext. 8793

4/R1

SECRET

---

