# 104-10295-10061

## Page 1

104-10295-10061

SECRET

Chlef, WH Divislon

Chief, SR Dirlston Chlef, KUDESK

Chlet of Statlon, Mexico City

Operations!/REDCOAT/LCIMPROVE/VIktor Lukich KHUKHOREV

NEFERENCE: HMMW 12737, 9 July 1904

201-129029

201-261813

1, Reference dispaich is correct in advislag that Subject la listed an

Third Secretary In the Mexican Diatto Oficial,

2. Honcyer, li should be noted that Subjock's GRU dealgnation, as made

by the Station, in based on the following Informarlon and factors:

During Subject's prevlous assignment to Mexico, bla over?

poaltion and activuy was that of distr luting time so varlous local

inulviduals, groupi, and organizatlona reruesilng samc. The Ident liled

GRU ofilces, Valca in VasillycrIch BAKULIN, replaced Sublect la this

overt function, When Subjoce came to Maxico for bla present assignment

here, ha replao. BAKULIN in thle overt functlot.: Addittonally, be 100%

Over BAKULIN' a diplomatle plate vebicle and has an office In the Millasy

Anache quarters.

I this ras tier put te te not the .

bo

•A recent tabulatlon-analysla of Subject's contacte with Sovles

Embassy personnel in the compound during the past sl monthe docs not

Indicate an exclusive or near exclustve assoclation with Identifled GRU

personnet Howerct, the tabulation does-Indicere somewhat more

assoclasion with GRU officero than with KGB or mntillared saffera.

wulard C. CURTIS

Dlett lbutlon

2 • WH

2 = SRu

1 • ALDEST

Encinded trea Sala

savagnetia; 3r.

declassifi at:

HIMMA 24076

SCRET

7 Auguse 190%

201•192029

201-261813

---

## Page 2

USE# ADDRESS

OFFICE ADDECIS

NOME ADDRESS

MERICA

Juanzcatan 164 Apt 103

INCOME

HEIGHT

WEIGH]

ETES

he is 3 s

RIS SECRETIO. 14

1 - 18482

PERSONAL INFORMATION DATA

201261813

ALIAB OR CRYPTONYA

Talentin Vasilyevich

S

C=39

8/8/59

TITLE

if "ench to

MMNAM845

DATE OF

5 Nov. 2959

PHOTO

g..n.1e: C76

IN 46494

MEXI 4025

9/11/59

COMPLEXION

d. +

G39

DATE OF BIRTH

9 Feb. 25

BIRINPLACE

MOSCO!

FAMILY

Nife: Vera Ivanovna

b: 27/9/27

Son: Vladinir Valentinovich

b: 30/1/54

DOCUMENTATION

S1PPR6 LAYGUAGES

37A1822 Spacide

PREVIOUS CAREER AND EDUCATION

EXHOXY Spanish, almost vithout flav. (Source: LINEB, Nexl 5898, :2l Aug 63)

do No trace

MEXT 5898

PERSONALITY (Babita.

HoBbier, literalare, vice)LINEB files and possible

201 containe considerable info on B's personality (lldec62)•

IINEB commented that in contrast to past,

subj. now elegantly dressed.

(ig coment: LTEB had rot seen Subj. for perhans a year.)

498

SECRET

€ 80.

---

## Page 3

14-00000

HM 914813

18 lips bo

TNAP9.15087

3 JiNIStO

SECRET

Eden Ris. Dois some ollegal reppo-(collection)

duse ffice los LINER. (GRU).

IXEY MEXT 0230 Bakulin gave LINEB-l regards froz Pavel Fedorovich Rovaler.

IN 36551

Latter

¡ 3 Mar 62

promoted, assigaed Moscow. LINFP-1 asked se Nikolat Ivanovich Rochchin

Bakulin said not well accainted, but Rochchin in Italy.

ODENVY In Med believes subj is vulnerable to recruitment or defection

and approach being planned by joint KUBARK-ODENVY. (IN 47456, MEXI 4742, May 63)

Subj

I8 C/0 10r LAROB (ODENVY

NOFORN 1963

MEXI

5898

24, Aug 63

AS Of 19 Au: 63,

Aleksandrovict, who has gone to sU, possibly PCS.

Subj 1s again C/O for LINER/1, replacing SHEYNOK, Vadim

NEXI 6151

13. Sep 63

conTAcTs Subj, Visited anartment of Dr. CleaT. FIPPER, professor nü I-SiJ

who was in lexico and atterded the Fhilosophy Conference, ayso attended

by Sov. delegates.

delegate who acr, ainted with FERpER.

subj elso in commany of Vitally FREDERIY, Sov.

(There is some susnicion by HO

that ERRER nay be an 1llegal.. FER ER was in contact with YGB officers

at Soi. Fab.)

TRAVEL

State

1.. Subj. and fanily requested transit visa for US enroute to

C 39

Mexico.

8/8/59

20 Subj. w/family arrived U.S. 5/11/59 enroute to l'exico.

#M MA I48YS

88 apolo

3. Subj still there as of 1514/60.

IN 29750

Subj & V. PROLOV joined V. SMYSHLAYEV and Turiy HIKHAYLOV in Nuevo

MNTY 405,408

Laredo 22 Jun 61 to pick up new ears.

Departed for Saltillo 23 June

2% 825 Juns]. 1961.

Requested no advise Mexi ODENVY.

IN 42455

5. Sovimb personnel planning leave Mext for USSR 25 Jun on AF flight:

29 May 62

Subj, wife Vera Ivanovna and son Vladindr; Talgarbek Sarbanow.

MEXI 0925

aTly Diated Leave Mers for Moscow 19 Jun AF 70.

7. Subj, wife & son arr 6/19/6? via AF 700 at NY Int in transit to

Kurope from Mexico.

8) Mexican viga

authorized for subf, wife & son, danbutton-herder

(KUDOVB - 00/324-62) Aug 62, Date of Into 27 Jun E2)

@)-Sabf Saby departed BY po-Baro pe Jun Jun (DBA=1Li890, S Jul 62), had ppt

10) Subj due return Mextro T0-iz. Sep 62. (KUJVE, R-767-62)

SECRET

DEF 37102

19/11/59

IN 15614

NEXI 1144

2? J

#166605

---

## Page 4

14-00000

SULTY, Valentin Contid

Travel & Misc conted

11) Subj and family returned to Mexi 18 Sep 62. (IV 27226 MEXI 2003, 23 Sep 62!

12.

BAKULIN told ODENVY

that he(Sor) had travelled to San Diego with

(Could BAKULIN'a story of trip to San Diego be CP Test

GE ODENEY DATT

13°

MEXI 6031, IN 13138, 5 Sep 63:

BAKULIN met LINEB-i on 3 Sept 1963.

Bakulin

stated there had been a change of"DIRECTOR" (believe he means Chief GRU) and

he had been working very hard, fron early ;morp to late eve." I have been doing

everythin and I have to be very careful after what happened to PENKOVSKIY.

Seven of us have already left the Country.. I don't want to be expelled,

"They"

have doubled the "Vigilancia", It's better for you not to show for meeting 1f

something happens,

I don't want to put you in Danger.* BAKULIN said there

possibility that alternate Soviet would meet LIBel, using name of Nikolas.

LINEB] suggested tbat if subject working so hard he must bave gotten a Promotion.

BAKULIN Bald he had indeed gotten a Promotion and a good one.

Iso.

Subf Indicated to Agent LARO that their 30 son 63 me in ory be I tA 54362,

Subj. mentioned

7 Oct 63)

that ho may be transferred, possibly to Ethiopia.

Subject's replacement will probably be fu ZHURAVLEY (Vil:tor ZMRAVI.EV ?)

MEXI 7439, 18 Lee 63.

Subj and femily left PCS 12 Jan 64o EXI 7762, 1L Jan 6l.

Sucs. replaced by Vistor Tukich THUMHOPEY (based on Subj's deserintion to

.INE3/1 of his replacerent.

*EXI 7733, 13 Jan the Lined Linted

iderrified

Tsayer

Corment:

Abore content that sub's replace all be mu JuRy tobably

11 tar 64

based on FI/D info: as of 1l Mar 64 no indication that a fru

ZHURAVLEW has arr'd or will arrive in lexie City. (rossibly

the assierment was cancelled.)

Above comment that Subject repleced by Viktor Iukich FAUKHOREV.

not yet resolved as INEB has not met his future case officer.

KHUKHOREY is a diplomat, whereas Subject was an en loyee in.

MA's office.

As far as overt nosition in the Embassy 1s co

cerned, Subject sas probably replaced by either Turty Alekseyevich

MITROrD: SKIY (who mreviously emnloyed by GRil in Germeny) who arr'a

18 Teb t4, or by Constantin Fedorovich VIROIKO! (previously in

MA Office in Faris) who ar'd 3 Var 6do

(500r)

---

## Page 5

14-00000

Excerpts from LaJP file re Subj:

1.

BAKULIE came to T-l's automobile corrying e bottle of Mexican gin

and a bottle of Coca Cola, BAY!!!T!! entered Tol's automobile and pourel

a drini. Into a plastic giass which he offered to I-.

T-l refused and

BAKULIN drank. it hi-self.

(Bureau report dated 23 May 63) LAROS Or.

2000

BAKULIN resinded T-l of the day (April 11, 1963) when PAFUT.IN had come

to T-l's home and hed drunk some brendy.

BATULTH stated that,

after

The left I-l's home, EArlIl's associate, who was waiting for baluLiM,

decided that BAULI: was too drunk to attend a meeting with BAKULIN's

superior and took B4KUI.NI to Cuernavaca, 'orelos, lorico, to sober

him up. PAKULIN stated that, as a result, when he did confer with his

superior he received a very sevore lecture. T-l notca

that, during the

Period seE PAKULTi weirg these comments, PAKTIN uns extremely

nervous.

(Eureau report dated 23 lay 63) 'LAROB Oç.

3.

PArth! steted that T-l, sooner or later, would te introduced to someone

olse who would be the replacement for BANITY when BAK'IT receives

BAKULIN requested T-1 not to mention HAKULTI's drink-

Ing or the conments that had been made to ta Tal by PAKUl.Ill on a con-

fidential casis.

Tol assured Patulin that he had nothine to worry

about 13 this regard.

(Pureau report dated

23 " 8y 63) LAROB Op.

BAXULll arpeared at the home of T-l on the evening of Hovember 11, 196k

at about 8:80 p.I.

EAXULI! apneared to hare been drinking and, while

telhion to Tal, duent Give alisses of brandy. (Fur: au report dated

16 Nov. 62) LAROB O0.

areT

=.1604Y

---

## Page 6

REDCAP sheet - BAKULIN 1n Merloo - 5 Not 59

to 12 July 64

---

