# 104-10331-10263

## Page 1

104-10331-10263

Jun-12-97

05:35p Congressional Affairs

703-482-4476

P.01

CENTRAL

INTELLIGENGE

AGENCY

UNCLASSIFIED FACSIMILE TRANSMITTAL FORM

DATE:

2 June 1997

NO. OF PAGES 11

TO :

FROM:

Ed Cohen

FAX:

703-613-3020

Lee Strickland

FAX:

703-613-3007

I> CIA/OCA

(Phone: 703-482-8824)

COMMENTS :

NEW DEADLINE FOR

C. 0. B

3 JunE 97.

RESPONSES

IS

613197- Brenda-

Breada from tees. Goce

dropped this off. Tey wice

au o let

Know that eveyone was in

a caf yestu day o today.

ade y+022 10 600

JB

this.

---

## Page 2

.Jun-02-97-05:35p Congressional Affairs

703-482-4476

P. 02

Oftice ol

Congressional

Allaus

CENTRAL INTFILIGENCE AGENCY

UNCLASSIFIED FACSIMILE TRANSMITTAL FORM

DATE:

2 June 1997

NO. OF PAGES 17

TO:

FAX: 703-874-3208

BEuce Burke

FAX: 703-874-3208

FROM:

17 CIA/OCA

(FAX:

703-428-5841)

(ebone: 703-482-8844)

COMMENTS:

Please make an additional copy for Bruce Burke.

Thanks.

---

## Page 3

•".

Jun+02-97 05:35P. Congressional Affairs

JUN-02-1997 09:54 T0:21 - CIA

703-482-4476

FROM: GIBBONS, M.

P-03

P. 1/10

Toral Pages:

LRM ID: JAW106

TO:

FROM:

OMB CONTACT:

SUBJECT:

EXECUTIVE OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT

OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT AND BUDGET

Washington, D.C. 20503-0001

Friday, May 30, 1997

LEGISLATIVE REFERRAL MEMORANDUM

Legislative Liaison Officer - See Distribution below

James J. Jukes (for) Assistant Director for Logislativo Reference

M. Jill Gibbons

PHONE: (202)395-7593 FAX: (202)395-3109

Natlonal Archives and Records Administration Testimony on HR15S3

Extencion of the Authorization for the Assassinaton Recorde Review Board

DEADLINE:

2PM Monday, June 2. 1997

In accordance with OMB Circular A-19, OMB requests tho viows of your agency on the above

subject before advising on its relationship to the program of the President. Please advise us if this

Iem will affect direct spending or receipts for purposes of the "Pay-A=-You-Go" provisions of Title

XIll of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1990.

COMMENTS: A copy of HR 1553 ls anclosed.

DISTRIBUTION LIST

AGENCIES:

29-DEFENSE - Samuel T. Brick Jr. - 1703) 697-1305-Parza S

51-General Services Administration - Willem R. Ratchford - (202) 501-0563

61-JUSTICE - Andrew Fois: (202) 514-2141

State

CIA

NSC

EOP:

Robert W. Schroeder

Ken Schwartz

Louise Koch

Kim Newman

Maya Bernstein

Julie L. Heas

Jim Murr

Steve Aitken

---

## Page 4

•. Jum-02-97

05:35P Congressional

JUN-02-1997 09:54 T0:21 - CIA

Affairs

703-482-4476

FROM: GIBBONS, M

P. 04

P. 3/10

Statement of

Steven D. Tilley, Chief of the Acces and Freodam of Information Starf

National Archives and Reoords Administration

Bofore the

Subcommittoe on National Security, International Affairs, and Criminal Justice

Commitree on Government Reform and Oversight

House of Representatives

June 1, 1907

Mr. Chairmad, I am Steven D. Tilley, Chief of the Access and Freedom of luformation Act Staff

of the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). I wish to thank you for the

opportunity to testify today on behalf of NARA in suppont of H.R. 1553, which will exend the

authorization of the John F. Kennudy Asassination Racords Review Board for one year to

September 30, IYY8. I am appearing today in my caperily as NARA"& Chief of tho Prosidont Joha

F. Kennedy Assassination Records Colloction. In that role I am charged with implementing

NARA's responsibilities under the Act and I serve as NARA'& limison to the Assassination

Records Review Bourd (ARRB). This afternoon I would like to tell you a little bit of my

background oonserning records of the assassination nf Prenident Kennedy, explain the role of

NAKA in implemending the Act, and outline why the National Archive and Records

Administration supports passage of this important piece of legislation."

Mr. Chairman, my career as an archivist has involved working with some of the most sensitive

and highly classified records of our Govemment. I nversaw the closing of the office of the

Watergate Special Frosecutor Furce (WSPF) and suporvisod tho tranafor of thate rocorde to the i

National Archives in 1977. I workod with the records of the WSPF for more than 11 years,

---

## Page 5

Jun-02-97 05:36P Congressional

JUN-02-1997 09:54 TO:21 - CIA

Affairs

703-482-4476

FROM: GIBBONS, M.

P-05

P. 4/10

serving for most uf lut lius as the sonior archivist for those secords. I also carvod as the senior

archivist for the rocords of the National Security Council (NSC) following the transfer of the NSC

records of the Truman and Eisenhower Administrations in 1983. In 1989 I joined the staff of the

National Security Council, where I served as Director of Freedom of Information AcPrisacy Act

Activities and later as NSC's Director of Information Disclosure with responsibility for all

disclosure mulivilios of the NSC. In 1993, I roturod to NARA to become the Chief of the JFK

Collection, and l have servod in that capacity ever since. I became the Chlet of the Acuesy Madl

FOIA. Stuff in January of this year.

Tinder the IFK Act, NARA had several major responsibilities. Three of these requirements,

louwever, provod to be central to the work of the Assassination Rocords Reviaw Board. Our fist

responsibility was to formally establish the President John F. Kennoy Assussiation Rocords

Collection which we accomplished with the publication of an announcement in the Eederal

Register on December 21, 1992. As establishod on that date, the Collection only consistod of

open records already in NARA's custody, primarily the records of the Warren Commission.

Socondly, within 45 days of the etstute being sigued, NARA was required to prepare and make

available stundard identification forms for use by all guveinent ofices in describing assassination

reoords and to create a database of these forms 10 serve as an electronic finding aid 10 ine stK

Collection. Our third responsibility, which we shared with other government officos, was to

identify, reviow, and make available to the public all assassinasion records that could be discloned

under tho provisions of the law within a 300 day review periar Descriptions of all records

reviewed were required to be entered into the dalbest, wirie they would be mado widely

available to the public.

---

## Page 6

+.Jur-02-97

05:36P Congressional

Affairs

JJN-02-1937 09:54 TO:21 - CIA

703-482-4476

FROM:GIBBONS, M.

P. 06

•P. 5/10

(3)

Al the end of the revice poriod in August 1993, newly released records were made availnhie for

rescarch, including most of Loe Harvey Oswald's 201 Personality file, part of the Central

Intelligonce Agency's "segregated collection" of assassination related documents, and the rocords

of the House Select Committee on Assassinations. The database was also available for use by

researchers on that day.

When the ARRB members were confirmed by the Senate in April, 1994, ury staff and I bogan 80

work with the Board and later with the Board's staff, to provide information on the recorde in

the Collection a thai time, the developmani and use of the database, our contacts and discussions

with other agencies involved in searches for assassination related documents, and the existence of

assassination recorde in the custody of private repositories or individuals. The ARRE and NARA

have maintained an excellent working relationalip invugh the 3 years of tho Board's existenoe,

and I would like to think that this close relationship has in come way contributod to the success of

the ARRB.

NARA enthusimsticnily supports pussage of H.R. 15S3 to extend the ARRB's authorization. Our

mission is not unille that of the ARRB, lu ensure roady noocss to ossontinl dooumourary

evidence. In the Board's case the essential evidence is any rocords relating to the assassination of

President Kennedy. In our case essential evidence consists of all federal and presidential records

that document the rights of American citizens, the actions of federal officials, and the antional

oxparionos. The Review Board needs the sime designated in this bill to complete its important

work in making available as complete m historical rocord as possiblo concerning the

---

## Page 7

;vun,02-9 05:36P

congressional Affairs

JUN-02-1997 09:54 TO:21 - CIA

703-482-4476

FROM: GIBBONS, M.

P .07

P. 6/10

14

assassination of Presidont Kennody. Wo would like to offer for your consideration some statistics

and facts to demonstrale the success of the board and suppor its one-year extension.

The John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection today bears little resemblance to the

Collection that was established in December 1992. As that time, the Collection consisted of

approximately 450 oubio foct of rooords from a few agencies. Today, the Collection has grown to

more than 1,600 cubic fees of records or 3.75 million pages from more than 30 dillordur

government offices. Those numbers are & testament to the work of the Review Board in

obtaining the cooperation of the entire federal govemment in this importani task.

The ARRB has not only suoceeded in obtaining the cooperation nf the Federal agencies but has

aiso nogotiated the donation of very important rovords til were previously held in private hands.

Donations have included the relatod papers of James Garrison and Edward Wegmann, the

prosecutor and defense attorney in the conspiracy trial of Clay Shaw, and the papers of J. Loe

Rankin, the General Counsel and Chief of Staff of the Warren Commission Copies of the papers

of Sonator Richard Buerell, a member of the Warren Commiasion, that were donated to the

University of Goorgia are being roviewed aud we hope will be made part of the Collation in the

near future with the agreement of the University. For the information of the Committee, Mr.

Chairman, I have attached to my testimony a copy of the Register of the Collection, which lints

the major groups of Foderal records and private papers, along with the suppiemental listing of FBI

filcs.

---

## Page 8

1141-02-97

05: 36P

congressional Affairs

JUN-02-1997 09:54 T0:21 - CIA

703-482-4476

FROM: GIBBONS, M

P. 08

P. 7/10

Nor only lus lle Culletion increatod dramatically in size, the signifioance of the records in the

Collection cannot be overestimated. In addition to the records of numerous fixecutive branch

agencies and officos, the records of relovant Congressional committees, related court cases, and

records donated by privato entities are available in the Colloction. This rich documentation is

searchable electronically, giving researchers the ability to sock out documents concerning a topic,

person, ul creal, or even individual documents, not only al NARA's College Park facility, bux

from their own personal computer through the lmernol Equally important, the Collection

provides researchers with a view of how our goverument worked during this period in history, as

the documents reflect not only the operations of government as the offices and agencies reacted to

the death of the President bur also how there offices and agencies were operating in regand lo

other events that are rclated to tho cssassination, such as the campaiga to dostabilize the

govemment of Cuba or the FBi's mvestigation of various organized crime figures. Perlings lis

unique window on the operations of these agencies may be the most important rosult of the

development of the Collection.

Furthermore, tha Colloction continuer to grow. Additional FBI records will he added in the

weeks and months ahend. Hecords of the Deparments of the Army and Navy and the Joint

Chiefs of Staff are currently under reviow. The addition of these rocords will only add to the

richness of the Collection and increase ite value to the genoral research community.

Public demand for thoro roords is the ultimate evidence of the the value of the finllection.

Reference requests have risen in mumber every year since the Culloulun upened with new rooorde

in Auguet 1993. This year we have already roceivod close to 600 written inquiries, an increase ot

---

## Page 9

Jun=02-97 05:37P. Congressional Affairs

JUN-02-1997 09:54 TO:21 - CIA

703-482-4476

FROM:GIBBONS, M.

P. 8/10

6

30% over this time last year. The number of inquiries on our computer website is also steadily

increasing. Since March, 1996 when the Cullettion was made available through the NARA

website, the assassination records have been accessed over 100,000 timos by the publio. Many of

the written inquirios we reccive include copies of record identification forms taken from the

detabase, showing that the rosearcher has accessed our website and downloaded information. The

armilability of the database via the. Internet remains one of the most important developments that

have come from this process.

Due to the exceptional work of the John F. Kennedy Assassination Reoords Review Board, great

progress has been made on making available as complete a record as possible on the history of the

aseassination of John Kennedy. Withou the focus, integrity, and exportice of the ARRB, the

Collection wuuld not bave the sire, quality, or public demand witnessed today. Howaver, there is

still much to do. NARA suppors passage of H.K. 1SS3 so that this important work can bre

completed.

---

## Page 10

' •

Jum-02-97 05: 37P Congressional

JUN-02-1997 09:54 T0:21 - CIA

Affairs

703-482-4476

FROM:GIBBONS, M

P .10

P. 9/10

105TH CONGRESS

1ST SESSION

H. R. 1553

To amend the President John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection

Act of 1992 to estend the authorization of the Assassination Records

Review Board until September 30, 1998.

IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

MAY 8, 1997

Mr. BURTON of Indiana (for himsell, Mr. WASMAN, and Mr. STOREs) intra-

duced the following bill; which was referred to the Committee on Govern-

ment Reform and Oversight, and in addition to the Committee on the Ju-

iciary, for & period to be subsequently delermined by the Spcaker, is

ach case for consideration of such provicions as full wichin the jurisdic-

tion of the commitlee concerned

A BILL

To amend the President Jobn F. Kennedy Assassination

Records Collection Act of 1992 to estend the authoriza-

tion of the Assassination Records Review Board until

September 30, 1998.

1

• Be it enacted. by the Senate and House of Representa-

2 tives uf the United States of America in Congress assembled,

---

## Page 11

3un-02-97 05:37P. Congressional Affairs

JUN-02-1997 09:54 TO:21 - CIA

703-482-4476

FROM: GIBBONS, M

P - 11

P. 10/10

2

1 SECTION I. EXTENSION OF AUTHORIZATION OF ASSAS.

2

SINATION RECORDS REVIEW BOARD.

3

The President John F. Kennedy Assassination

4

Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 U.S.C. 2107 note) is

§ amended

6°

7

8

(1) in section 7(o)(1), by striking "September

30, 1996"' and all that follows through the end of

the paragraph and inserting "September 30, 1998.";

and

9

10

11

12

13

(2) in section 13(a), by striking "such sums"

and all that follow's through "expended" and insert-

ing "to carry out the provisions of this Act

$1,600,000 for fiscal ycar 1998".

•FIR 1568 XH

---

