# 104-10051-10152

## Page 1

104-10051-10152

SECRE I

Ruchier, SRS

( DC/SAS and C/ FIOB/ SRS

M. D. Stovens

PEREZ, Ralph

8444 260

18 October 1967

Document Number

for FOlA Review on

343-1055

MAR 1977

1. With reference to Ralph PEREZ who le mentioned in

paragraph 2 of the attached memoranium on Rich rd S. CAIN

dated 9. Ostober 1967, he would appear in all prob bility to be

Jubject who in the spring of 1963 became of interest to DCS (00/C)

for routine exploitation as a source of foreign positive intelligence.

2. On 28 June 1963, Security advised DCS regarding an un-

substantiated report that Subject aubscribed to the Communist

publication 'VOZ de MEXICO" and wan a Communist leader in

1944. He reportedly was & leader of the Communist nuclous in

the Chicago Mesican colony. According to a notation dated 6/26/63,

this information was' considered resolved in Subject's favor through

1959 BoI, conducted on Subject's siater.' DOS was also iaformed

that Subject's sister (Maria Guadalupe GALLARDO, with various

akas) was reported by reliable informante to have been a member

of the Mexiean Commision of the Communist Party in 1946 and &

Card carrying Communiet Party member in 195l, During an intes-

View in 1954, she admitted attending meetings of the Communist

Party and a Communist Party school during the mid-1930's in Chicago

but denied having attended Communist Party aflairs subseguent to 1945,

or to ever having been a member of the Communist Party.

3. Tich roference to Guillermo ESCOBAR, whom Subject

(PEREZ) is said to have given_

1199 499, aв 2

lead, he may or may not be Guillormo (ESCOBAR) MARTINEZ, aka:

Guillermo (MARTINEZ) ESCOBAR, # 144260, a M'isican citizen who

in October 1956 was lasued an onerational approval

This

approval was cancelled by "H/Ill in i memorandum dated 9 November

1957. There is no derogatory information la ESCOBAR'a file and no

information on him since 1957.

TECRET

GROUP

Excluded from zilomatic

dowograding and

declussitle..ia..

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECRET

* The only other Guillerino ESCOBAR on whom there is

information in Security Indices le an individual by that name listed

1a a 5 Decomber 1949 report on The Fourth (TROTSKYITE) Inter»

national. This Culllermo ESCOBAR, Secretary General of the

Federacion de Obreras de Imprenta d, Chile, war listed as one of

the personalitles. in the Partido Obreto Revoluclanarla, an aifiliated'

Chileas organization.

M. D. Steveng

Attachmont: memo did 9 Oct 67

MDS/cer

SECRET

---

