# 104-10178-10066

## Page 1

104-10178-10066

2A

SLASSIILO MESSAGE

SECRE!

NOM MWAVE

ACTION MUSA !

DCS, D/DCI,

DOP, ADOP, 300 %, CA 8, CAPEG, CA/PROP, CAVO D, CI, CI/OPS, CI/IC 80

41. 41/0, FI/INT, RI/AN, NO WHY, VR. FILE, ES/RE

AD/CI 2, AD/NE

SEGRET 2523482

MAN 26 52342, 65 IN 66804

DIR INTO LANT PACT BAPA SOON CITE HAVE 7499

INTEL TYPIC

21-7.

21-10

• SUPDATAS AMDOG-I BASED OPEN LETTER DATED 13 LAN, MAILED SOOM

15 JAN ARRIVED MIAMI Z$ LAN VIA NEW YORK. FIELD COMMENT BASED

RETURNTO CIA

UFG 6524: RIDS INDEX, FILEO 2523482]

Background Use Only

*Do Not Reproduce

REPORT CLASS CONFIDENTIAL CONTROLLED DISSEM NO FOREIGN DISSEM

CUBA, DOMINICAN REPUBLIC

SUBJA POSTPONEMENT OF AN INFILTRATION ATTEMPT BY MANUEL RAY RIVERO,

0018 13 JANUARY 65

PADA 8 UNITED STATES, MIAMI (22 JANUARY 65).

UFG 6,573

SOURCES A YOUNG CUBAY EXILE. THIS INFORMATION WAS OSTAINED FROM A

PERSON WHO IS WITH MANUEL RAY RIVERO, EUT WHOSE RELIABILITY IS

UNDETERMINED.

ENT.

NO DIESEMINATION OF THI ATYAGME

TD PORTION OF THIO CABLE MAS ENGA

MADE OUTHDI THE AF INCY POIDIN

EMB

00.

BUSING I WO

DATE DISTRALTIO

IDCS

BASEO ON

UAION

SECRET

Fans remand

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER IMAN ISSUENG OFFICE IS PROMANTED

Copy Ma

в...

216R

---

## Page 2

CONFIDENTIAL

CUNTRAL INTILLIDINCA AGINCT

Intelligence Information Cable

COUNTRY

¡ BATIO

INFO

TDES

- ВИмЕСТ

PLACE &

DATE ACO.

SOURC

AND

APPRAISAL

IN 66864

FELO REPORT NO.

10 AS OF 13 JANUARY 1965 MANUEL RAY RIVERO, LEADER OF THE

*JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA CUBANA (JURE, CUBAN REVOLUTIONARY JUNTA),

WAS PLANNINO TO INFILTRATE INTO CUBA ON Y OR 5 FEBRUARY, THE

MV VENUS, A 1ID-FOOT PANAMANIAN-REGISTERED VESSEL, WAS UNDER

REPAIR AND THE SHIP'S CREW WAS GIVEN PEHMISSION TO RETURN TO MIAMI

ON LIBERTY, (FIELO COMMENTi THE SAME SOURCE RECENTLY REPORTEO

THAT RAY INTENDED TO INFILTRATE INTO CUBA SOMETIME BETWEEN 15 AND

28 JANUARY.)

2. ALL THE MEN OF JURE'S CAMP IN THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC

WERE A LITTLE DISGUSTED BECAUSE THEY DO NOT THINK THAT RAY WILL

CONFIDENTIAL

AJD

VELA

OCI

---

## Page 3

PIAC CANTROL ADITE TOP FUCK LOT AYD SHOW PITON BACK LI

УО пО 4700

т 66801

PAGE 2

CONFIDENTIAL

TDCa

REALLY GO TO CURA, THEY MAVE GIVEN HIM 5 FEERUARY AS A DEADLINE.

(SOURCE CONMENTS IF RAY DOES NOT LEAVE FOR CUBA BY THIS DATE,.

HE WILL PROBABLY LOSE ALL HIS MEN, THEY ARE ALL ANXIOUS TO

SEE ACTION BUT RAY HAS BEEN GIVING THEN NOTHING BUT PROMISES AND PLANS.

• 3º AS OF 13 JANUARY THE FOLLOWING MEN WERE CREW MEMBERS

ASSIGNED TO THE MUN VENUS: :NOCENCIO LEAL, ALBERTO ALONSO CRUL,

ROBERTO CANAL GAREIA, RAFAEL MAYALA, JOSE MIGUEL RAMOS, ABELARDO

DOMINGUEZ, MANUEL GARCIA FERNANDEZ, LUIS POSADA, RICARDO ADOLIS COBOS,

PEPIN CARBONEL, GILBERTO ENIDIO FUNDORA ALCAZAR, MAXIMO DELGADO,

PABLO RODRIGUEZ, MANUEL VARELA CASTRO, LOSE RICARDO RABEL NUNEZ,.

, AND LISTORIEL TORRES OMARRON.. ' :

H. FIELO DISSEME MIAMI REPOS OF STATE, USCO, LENS, BORDER

PATROL, FBI, CUSTOMS: CINCLUNT, CINESO, COMAWESTFOR. (ALSO SENT

[SANTO DOMINGO).

16÷10

• (ENO OF MESSAGE)

CONFIDENTIAL

URR

---

