# 104-10215-10234

## Page 1

104-10215-10234

CLASSIFIED MFSGAGE

POUlING

1 DIRSCTOR

FROM

ACTION:

c/rE 2

DO?, AQ0P, C/CR 2, G/LA/0 2, C/CI, G/F1|2, C/SAS 5, RF, UR (SUSPENSE DO/1)

SECRET 3ZISSOZ

/

PARI INFO DIR LOND

MADR CITE

30 Ст63 1:56855

3399

DESENSHIZEDRUMES KEYwAY SADOUBT

REF COPE 3386 SHOT SENT PARIS (IN 56479)

I DURPS LIE MOSE RECENT DEBRIEFING OF SADQUAT-I XE REPORTED dHAT,

HE ¡AD HEARD FRO A RANKING OFFICIAL OF THE CUBAN MINISTRY OF

• -THE PUTERIOR UHILE IN PARI THAT ROLANDO CURELA AND ANGEL GUEVEDO

AN OFFPOPAL OF THE CUBAN STUDENTS ORGANIZAION

FEU. HAD RESTONED

FROM

THE ARMY ESTER DISFICULTPES WITH RAUL CASTRO. THE DIFFI-

CULTPES OCCURRED AFTER BOTH MAD COMPLETED A SENIRO ARMY TRAINENG

•COURSE AND PUSTEAD OF RECEIVING THE RANK OF COMMANDER WHICH THEY

HAD HELD DURING ZHE REVOLUTPON, THEY WERE TOLD

BY RAUL CASIRO

THEY VERE BEPNG DEMOTED TO GAPT. SOTH THEN RESPONED.

S 1 ALSO REPORTS THA, CARLOS FRANQUI NAS BEEN FADED FROM APS

POSITION AS EDITOR OF REVOLUCION. THE NEWS WAS PASSED ZO

AERANUUS'S DEPUTY SARUSKY UHO PS PRESENLY OSLO BY CURAN PRESS

ATTACHE LOND PABLO ARMANDO FERVANDEZ. S -1 STATES THAT HE HAS

HEARD FREY OTHER SOURCES, HAT FRANQUI HAS BEEN A PROBLEM TO

CASTRO FOR SOME TIME AND THE LATTER MAS OFTEN COMPLAINED TO

CESAR ESCALANTE, CUBAN PROPARANDA CHEF THAT FRANGUI HAS TOO

901-552221

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS SOONINTED

---

## Page 2

14-00000

FALASSFiED MESSAGE

160 IN 500 - PAGE 2_

INDEPENDENE PM HPS URITING, THINKING. ESCALANTE USUALLY

ADISHESSED, COMPLAINTS BY SAYING HE HAD O CONTACE OVER FRANGUI.

3. NO JADEX.

SECRET

G/S COMMENT: "RE MEETINGS WITH SADOUBE-l 28 AMD 29 OST.

i;

---

