# 104-10113-10428

## Page 1

104-10113-10428

T

TO:

NSMITTAL SLIP

Mise

ROOM NO.

GE-31

REMARICS:

BUILDING

Edazs.

DATE

6-8-66

Please set up & MS file on

Edward Jay EPSTEIN

and forward same to me. Thank you..

FROM: I. Pinan

JILDIN

Idara

FREE 59-241

EXTENSION

# GPO: 1857-0-633665

(47)

---

## Page 2

SECRET

(When Filled In)

NAME OF SURJEC

FILE NO.

KEY TO ANALYSIS SYMBOLS*

NI = NOT IDENTICAL

I-ND = IDENTIOAL - NOT DEROGATORY

U-ND= UNABLE/TO IDENTIFY-MOT DEROGATORY

SA = SEE ATTACHED

MEMORANDUM

ARCH INST

MATIONS

(To

MAMES AS WRI

MALAME VARIATIONS

(ecord kngm to endet)

SRD/CAB ANALYSIS OF FILES

INDICES CHECK ONLY (DO-

NO.

De compilled by requeater)

SEARCH OVERT CARDS ONLY

SEARCH COVERT CARDS ONLY

SEARCH SUBJECT CARDS ONLY

_SEARCH ALL CARDS

PAGE

RESULTS

2

NAME

LAST, FIRST, MIDDLE (Type Or print)

SOUR

epstein,

Edward gay

?" Ti

OVERT

12

COVERT

3

Lanci ri

5

6

7

9

10

NO.

FILE NO.

4125755

ТУРЕ

C

NAMES CONTINUED ON ATTACHED SHEET

REFERENCE DOCUMENT

tresen -wann test

4:20/5:201

PAGE ANALYSIS* OR CHARGEOUT

RESULTS CONTINUED ON REVERSE SIDE

EQUESTER

(Name • Component

Helene

SRS

• 745 2 C6 1125

INDICES SEARCH REQUEST

618166

DATE COMPLETED

APPROVE

FOR FILING

(Initiale)

SECRET

EEE

(38-43)

---

## Page 3

TR

TO:

SMITTAL SLIP

DATE

8 June 1966

ROON NO.

Helene Pinan

BUILDING

REMARKS:

EpSTEIN, EDWARD

VAY

NYC

1935

Connell BA MA

Harrard Phe Suproces

FROM:

ROOM NO.

BUILDING

EXTENSION

FREE 59-241

PLACES FORM 31

HICH MAY BE USE

# GPO: 1857-0-439865

(0)

---

## Page 4

8 Jme 1966

MIMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: EPSTEIN, Edward Jay

The Sunday Edition of THE NEW YORK TIMES of 6 June 1966 contained

the attached clipping

of a book based on a Cornell University Master's thesis "Inquest" by

Subject.

A search of Security Indices and sources available in the Agency

as a university student at Cornell and Harvard Universities.

he book has the name os an Agency employee who hasbeen concerne

ith the Oswald case, namely Ray ROCC%. Due to this surfacing of a

Agency employee Edward EPSTEIN and his sources are of importance to the

Heleni

Helene Finan

Finan

Lacea

so feed legene, Celicon

Yes.

to Commension, trice

SENET

---

