# 104-10063-10152

## Page 1

104-10063-10152

SECRET 310633Z JAN 73 RESTRICTED HANDLING

1144

CITE

12-35

TO: HEADQUARIERS INFO

(EYES ONLY MASTROME) •

MHCURB RYBAT MHCHAOS

17-34

REFS® A.

1142 19 Gas 13

HEADGUARTERS 9SÃS e line 1a

RETURN TO CIA

Co

1268. Al,

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

D.

HE AD QUARTERS 8175 1 Ope 12

E.

1255 18 My 12

17-35

(AJDA) B3A52 CNOT SENT

723/612

L !

HEADQUARTERS 3081 (NOT

SENT

s yan 13

Ho

HEADQUARTERS 3250 19 4a 23

1o QBOWL/I DEPARTED DAR FOR NAIROBI 3B JANUARY. IN THREE

MEETINGS DURING 9-DAY IDY COBOWL/S PROVIDED FOLLOWING NEW DATAs

20 PETE O NEAL, BPP LEADER, CONTINUES VERY LOW PROFILE.

HAS BEEN VISITED ON SEVERAL OCCASIONS BY FRED JOHNSON, ONCE

EXCHANGED VISITS WITH SHOO-BE-DOO. FROM JOHN MANNING CO BOWL /1

LEARNED O NEAL NOW RESIDING IN FIRST FLOOR REAR FLAT OF BLDG G

IN NEW APARTMENT COMPLEX IN SOUTH DAR ES SALAAM. SAPPROX LOCATION

COORDINATES 38/43 ON SERIES Y941 EDITION 3 AMS MAP *DAR ES

E2 IMPDET WN-SISM

CL BY 012682

DUP oF 7115

ripo

---

## Page 2

14.00000

17-34

PAGE

1144 SECRET

SALAAM-SOUTH*'. LIVES WITH WIFE CHAFLOTTE AND TWO UNIDENTIFIED

BPP MEMBERS IN APARTMENTS ALLOCATED MAINLY TO UNIDENTIFIED

CHINESE ADVISORS. MANNING STATED THAT O°NEAL. NEAL. OBTA OBTAINED

FLAT IT IN BLDO E ADJACENT TO PRESENT RESIDENCE, FROM SUBJ.

REF BO, LEONARD DILLON. DILLON RECENTLY DEPARTED, WITH ONLY

$2B IN HIS POSSESSION, FOR ZAMBIA•

3. JOHN MANNING WAS UNABLE TO CARRY OUT REF C TRIP TO

UGANDA• APPARENTLY WAS STOPPED AT UGANDAN BORDER BY MILITARY

GUARDS AND ADVISED HE WOULD NEED LNFALL DOCUMENT REQUESTING

ENTRY (THE ULTIMATE HUMILIATION ACCORDING TO MANNING) • MANNINGS

INTENTION WAS TO SEE IDI AMIN AND SUGGEST ECONOMIC LIAISON WITH

BLACK MUSLIMS IN US• HIS MOST RECENT ATTEMPT TO CONTACT

UGANDAN LEADER WAS LETTER WRITTEN DURING WEEK OF 22 JANUARY TO

AMIN RECOMMENDING THE CHARACTER OF HIS FRIEND JOSEPH "FATMAN"

BROWN

IN SUPPORT OF BROWN'S FORTHCOMING RESIDENCE REQUEST. CIT

ISN°T CLEAR WHETHER THIS IS DIRECT RESILT OF NOTIFICATION OF

TANZANIAN AUTHORITIES AND BROWN OF REVOCATION OF BROWN'S U.S.

PASSPORT SEVERAL DAYS EARLIER OR SOME OTHER REASON• HOWEVER,

IN ALL COPOWL/I ELICITATION OF INFO ON UGANDAN CONTACIS OF DAR

MACHAOS COMMUNITY THERE NO INDICATION ANY CONNECIION WITH PLO

---

## Page 3

14-00000

1784

PAGE 3

2393g

1144 SECRET

INTENTIONS TO CONTACT BGACK AMERICAN RADICALS REPORTED IN (AUK

19308•

COPOWL /1 CONTACTED ROOSEVELI BROWN SUBJECT REF D. TN 24.

JANUARY FOR SHORT CONVERSATION IN WHICH BROWN STATED HE HAD JUST

COME DOWN FROM NAIROBI. ACCORDING TO CIRHEARTY/S ROOSEVELT BROWN

ATT SMPTED RENEW OUTDATED EXCURSION AIR TICKET THAI SAME DAY BUT

WHEN RENEWAL WAS APPROVED WAS INFORMED BROWN HAD RETURNED NAÍROBI

26 JAN•

5• ON WAY TO RALLY PROTESTING PAIGC LEADER CABRAL 'S

ASSISINATION COPOW SPOTIED LYNN (PRINCE HENRY)

EVANS AKA FREDRIK -

ROLLINS, SUBJECT REF E. CEVANS CURRENTLY SUBJECT OF NVIDEA •

REGIONAL SECURITY OFFICER INVESTIGATION DURING DAR IDY)

6. ON VISIT TO PAN AFRICAN SKILLS (PAS) OFFICE, OBÓNL/1 MET

FRED BROOKS, AND MALIK CHAKA, SUBJECT REF

F, LATTER WAS IN MIDST

FRENETIC ACTIVITY PRODUCING "STATEMENT" FROM PAS FOR DEMONSTRATION

BRALS

AT TANU HQS DENOUNCING CAME ASSASSINATION. .

•To DURING VISITS TO PAS OFFICE, OPOWL/I PERFORMED INITIAL

TECHNICAL SURVEY• (FLOOR FLAN AND NOTES BEING FORWARDED BY

DISPATCH>• EXEMPLAR ELECTRIC OUTLETS NO LONGER OBTAINABLE

LOCALLY, HOWEVER COBOWL/I BELIEVES HE CAN GET THEM IN NAIROBI FOR

g/po

---

## Page 4

14-00000;

$4

PAGE

1144 SECRET

FORWARDING WOLOCK•

OPOM/S DETERMINED THAT GEORGE RICE AKA GEORGE MATHEWS,

SUBJECT REF G• WAS RELEASED BY TANZANIAN AUTHORITIES SEVERAL.

WEEKS AGO (DESPITE LNFALL IMPRESSION GOVT • STILL PURSUING INITIAL

EXTRADITION OFFER) EXPLANATION GIVEN TOCODOWL/I BY MANNING AND

BROOKS FOR ORIGINAL DETENTION OF RICE WAS THAT TANZANIANS HAD

MISTAKEN RICE FOR HIJACKER GEORGE EDWARD WRIGHT • MFA HAD .:

INDICATED TO LNFALL WHEN SUGGESTING EXIRADITION THAT THEY

BELIEVED RICE TO BE HIJACKER WRIGHT BASED ON NEWSPAPER PHOTOS OF

DELTA HIJACKERS. IRONY OF WHOLE SITUATIN IS. THAT WRIGHI, AKA

LARRY DARNELL BURGESS, WAS IN DAR ES SALAAM AT TIME OF RICE

DETENTION, ACCORDING TO SEVERAL OBOWL/I SOURCES.

9• CURTIS POWELL, SUBJECI REF H, CURRENTLY RESIDES IN SAME

AREA BUT NOT SAME BUILDING AS PETE O'NEAL. (OPOWL/I AND MANNING

DROVE POWELL TO AIRPORT ON WEEKEND 27 JANUARY FOR TRIP TO NAIROBI•

LEND POWELL FUNS

BOTHCOTOWL/S AND MANNING HAD TO (PORTION GARBLED) TO PAY

AIRPORT TAX.

10. NO FILE E2, IMPDET WN-SISM.

SECRET

---

