# 104-10221-10310

## Page 1

104-10221-10310

D'S PATCH

TO

Chief, Special Affaire Btais

PROCESSING

SECRET

mga:

Chlot of Station, JWAVE

SET TYPIC/OPERATIONAL

Social ACtiNELon ReDOrE On JUWAVER RolatSonahip with AMCARBON-1

ACTION REQUIRED:

Paragraph 10

REFERENCES:

•A.

WAVE 8081,

dated 24 Septembor 1902-s no: 0-4

B.

145: 9169,

cared 28 September 1962m45-

NAVLS9343,

D.

BIR: 40975-

DAGI

164d7

octobor1902no1u.c.ga1

INTRODUGTION In Refcrenco nawAy ow rdod o revtew

Marcates that, the rolat lonship wiCh ALCARDON 2tevolvod Cron that

rosult of an Involtigation thich was

log carried out by the Idontity 1 relactve tontho lacesthat the

Couth Campus cuercsultrot

:2.

o being kept arom the YOBELT

security rea

trice one chich pero in con

tronache

encases action which hed boon taton in a crists

thor 0044b. 15hmont

Identity

of s working colat lonship with the

enrobagctive

which JIViVE had always hoped to obtata.

that wAVE be gluca approve o

the recomnendation was made

contact the major South. Flortda

Bernsors to an attempt to work out a rolationghip with there news

media chich would Insuro that they did not turn the publicity:

spotlight on those Kunank activitics in South Florida

come to their attention.

which might

Thus, whon relationship was establishod

WIth AUCARDON 2, it was carefully cultivated in ordor that INAlS

night be ablo to uge

thiô contact

at the Idontity 3 as a means of

schloving the objective of having a relationgbip with the Identity 3,

which would minuttamong nauro the rocurity of ravens operations

and gIve JAwAVE

curfacing certain

outlet into the press which could be used for

select propagands itens.

In the per lod October to

(CONTINUED)

Attachnente:

USC

- Five

B

* Idontitles

Newspaper Clippings

alotribution:

3 - Chiot, SAS, w/atte®

Eschatos tree estaralis

BROT: 108-135

f..

1178.

11 -

RI Chrono

201 file (0/cos

— COS Chrono

OFPICE

COS

•OFFICE SYMBCL

DATE TYPED

19 March 64

APR 2 in

BSA

DISPATCH SYMDOL AND NUMBER

URGA -14781

DICARQUARTERY FRE PUMICA

SECRET

• 203.00

ORIGINATING

OFFICER

TYPIST

Andrew Ke

REUTEMAN/vtp

COORDINATING

251

DATE

OFTICCA'S NAME

ESEC

509 53

S/JINAVE 384

USE PASMOVE EDITION EI PACTS TORN AID MADE MY E UNA 40) MAR 3 1

964

DUDLEY R, WILLINGS

RELEASING

---

## Page 2

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

BICART

UFCA -14781

Decembor 1962, all of wAvEs buginene with the identley

VIA ALCANDON -2.

In mid-licember 1002, MCAMIN -2

surtention

that ho: introduce liTTliN to

there to a brekup contact,

in the cront that

ANCAIION" were out of down or unavallable at nuch timen nu

REUTEN airit require asslolance fron tho

Identity 3.

and, as. a rcrult ARCAMON

hosted a lunchcop on 12 Decenter

at tho Mingt Club In the

lotol Columbug,.

Mand, Florida, at wiich AlCAlLON 2 introduced

20; operational, rolattonship. bas doveloned with;

AGues and its belloved that this counttonobip contriluton

to the fulffl Incitrot the ovor all amvolaaion.In view of

thier spectal

activition report to botor submittod to cover tho

nature of aNTAVElO rolationship With ANCARDON-1 dus os the

poriod Decoaber: 1962 to March 1964.

20 TUNE OF NEERINCE, FOR DIAVENS AELATIONCHER DITH, ANCA DON-I

rovlowod tho

cround rules under which he lad boon cooporating

This revrow was conductod for NcNIoN-1e

In ordor that he might clorly undorstand tho frumo of

roferenco bich should provall to his relationships with REUTENN

in this router, cation pointed out that it was tho polley

of tho Identity 3 that it would tako no action which would

purposoly cobarrass tubark or its South Florida oporations

- rosult,

1r any cabarrassing items relativo

to KUlArk's operations

in South Plortun did como to the attention of the Identity 3, this

intortal would bo brought to relit'a immodiate attontion.

INCARDON made it clour to MICARDON-l that such items should lir

discusood with REUTSAN in a frank mannor.

In eduition, ACARIN?

endo the point that,

aftor no fion was diecussed, MCARLON-1

should follow REUTEuN'e suldonco relative to how any porticularly

ombarrassing iten night bo hindled by tho Idontlty 3, no that it

would not expose kuBilk operations and at tho bano

In addition, ALCARION? pointed out

11 MICANCON-I brougbt

• potentially embarrassing iton to ReUPCHN's attention and

remedial action on the matter wns not taken by REUTRIN within

• rendonable period of timo,

then the Identity 3 would frel free

to expogo any ineptness on KUbRi's part.

ANCARDON 2 polnted

out that in return for this cooperation

tron the ldcntity 3,

REUTFIN had agreed that he would bo avnilablo for contret by

telophone or periodic poroonal metings at which ANCARDON-

and ANCARBO:? could discuss brond trends and dovclopmonte ti

Latin Aericon affairs.

ABCARION 2 advised ALCANION-I

that this

arrangcmont did not moan that MiCARDOll-l could expect to obtain.

any classified information from REUTICIN.

The point was also

made that ALCARDON-l should not press for tho obtaining of

classified information, but ho should ho alert to storing tips

which nute night turnish him on fast prenking nows storios.

ALCARBON Indicated that ho understood tho trumo of rotorence

which had been outlined by ACARBON-?.

This frano of roference

has provailed throughout JAVAVE's relationship with AlCARDON-l

during the period Decerbor 1902 to March 1964.

ALICARDON-I'S JOURNALISTIC CARFER, ALICARDON originally

started to work for tho Identity 3 in 1957 on the City Desk,

and subsequently advanced from this assignmont to an assignont

which ontalled covering major political dovolopments in Florida.

At & later date, AlCARDON-I becane a feature writer for tho

Identity 3.

Then In July or August 1962,

ANCARBON -1 was made

the Identity 4.

This assignment was considored to be a aignificant

VE PRICE NOTON

1109

CLASBIFICATION

SECRET

PAGING

CONTINUAT

---

## Page 3

SMITON OF

•DISPATCH

SECRET

UFGA-14781

promotion for AsCArBONel, and It rollected confidence to him by

tho identity 3 mongeneat.

ANCAIRON I

13 by no means an export

on. Latin Amorica, but be is dovcloping his knowlodge on tho are

and, at tho momont, he cives ovory ladlention of wanting to bo a

Hong-term Latin American

specialiut. Quilt has been questloned

AbOut ASCARION -1,

and he has indicatod that ABCANION-I 10 rerarded

In tho journalintle

• kcon

trade ag an oxtromoly likoable fellow whu has

mind but who lacks exporienco in depth on batin American

affairs®

of time,

It 1s QuILF*e opinion that given an appropriate lapue

AICARON-1 w111

ievelop.

corican specialiste

tato one of tho loading Latin

So journaitatio circicas

working command

AMCAREON 1

spaniel, and ho in constantly attempting

Flonguare

ANCARDON 31-6

my age-ratin mortean spectos

wrencontinue to.

Con

ho chould

he does have

rose esport tion,

Tong-tore potontial.

ANCARDON. 243 COnTAGIS MD sOURErS.

tradition pattor of source, proteation which compon cor

sons of his sourcon to ruraw, in ordor titmonsingtu? overuntton.

could be made of

that intonation. which ANCANDON-ibad passod: to

No a rogurt

of thesd-occastonal sitsing tdonttrtcaton.

of blo sourcer pondr

na a result of genoral conversattone with

ANCARDON REUTEMIN has earuod: that ACMIBON-1'a sourcos include -

A o.

of the DRE.

Lute *YERVAND Rocha (201-910%60), decretary soneral

b. Manolo "RAY RiToTo (201-239298), chiop of Juks.

Havana Times.

c. Carlos *TODD y Lobo (201-264141) of tho dofunct

d. AUBIDDY-I (201-267437)

•. Aureliano *SANCUEZ Arango (201-010245), leader 6f tle AMA

Edmund "LTY of the Hashington News Burosus

ASICARDON -1

regarde this sourco as boing particularly intorosting,

In view

the fact that Liaite dushter lo a secrotary la the office of

Attorney Genoral Robert KENNEDY,

adrenturer.

Frank FIORINI (201-242256), freo-lance pilot and

h. Eduardo *SUARS Riva, public relationa man for the uRR.

1o. Luis MUNOZ Maria, governor of Puerto Rico.

J.. Juan *BOSCH Gavino (201-103272), former presidont of

the Doninican Republic.

*. Charles *KEELY of the Coploy Wire Service.

I Jorgo *VOLSKY Kraialer (201-352252), an employco of

USIA in Miami.

ALCARBON" 1g well aware of the fact that YOLSKY

16 & defacto stringor for Tad SZULC of the New York Times, but this

does not dotor AlCARioN» fron attempting to exploit VOLSiY as a

source of information.

FORN

8.00

dA@₽

500

UBE PARVIOUS EDITION.

CRASSIFICATION

SECRET

PAGE NO.

CONTINUED

3,

---

## Page 4

MORAVATION OR

DISPATCH

SECRET

VPCA-14701

OPEIATIONAL SUPPONT.

On occadios, ABCARDON-! In used

to carry vut

certai operational support tasks.

In nuch innitances,

I'CARION- enko bie inquirios or carrice out the required action

rithin the context of his normal Journaltatic activities.

of ANCARION- for operational support taoke onnuler JuMAvE to

Inroess the Investirative

facilities of tho Identity

o-ples of how AMCARBON- has beon uncd to oporational nupport

canke are outitood bolow:

in Mtant and vas elvon routine CAC procesaing.

procose eg aro contatoed 1e N741-0085, datod 12 March 1963.

beins folonsod by CAs, OrDONg na-interytowed by tho Idontity 3o,and

• sensational tonne ceva oped.

tried o locito OloNg for debrictings Thio offord was not productiv

thua: NICARDON -1 okod tO Jochte ONDONOS ANCARDON 1 did locato

ORDOSO In Houston, Toxam,

detaili

See VAVE-63076 dated 25 March 1063, for

BACICOLLIDR CAFLOS BINDIN Of, the HRn Splintor Group.

ontod T Soptember 1903, Hondquartore cuncorted tot

Went planton kroup as a regult of BANDIN ovorintlatod claimi

rolative to his faction invading Cuba. Iloadquartora! Intoront fr

discredities tuDy was atoo stimulated by the fact that apiNte

unresponsibo pubiteity stunte wore crustig problems for AMpuY-l

no a rocult of icadquartors" interest in thia mattor, urcI had

a Lunchoon songton with ANCARBON on 24 Septembor 1003m at witch

ArCARDON-T way adviuod that the nANDiN laction of the wid was look

than accurato in ito cloine relative to tta

actlvitios in Cuba,

In vice of

MUTENAN succestod that

the Identily 3 mielt want

to soft poudlo any future war communiques which tho MiDiN faction

might rolonio..

ABSCNIBON-1 stated that, lo view of Rettin's

connenta, tho

Teentity s would not only soft poddle,

but would

ignore tho BINDIN faction in the future.

Onco BANDIN was dincroditod

with ANCAREON -1,

the word was soon leaked by ACARDON-I to otber

nowspapermon that MNDIN was not a reliable sourco.

of thie action, the UNDIN group has recolved minimal modia coverage

in South Florida sinco September 19G3.

OPEILATIONE INTELLIGECE.

In the perlod february 1963

tO FODFURTY

INCATION las Furnished JUWAVE with oporational

Intelligenco as outlined below:

In HAVE 1936, datod 21 February 1963, ANCARBON -1

roported that AMBLND-l was back in Miami and wan the object of

a great doal of proon intercot in riew of MiDeD-l's colcaro from.

• Lavana prison.

NSCANDON 1 also Indicated that AWBAND-I would

probably bo @ knowiedgenblo source on the current activities of tho

Un in Cuba.

This oporational intellifence uns most helpful in

terns of kooping Jawive intormed on ANDab-l'a movemente.

Subsequent

rovealed that ANCARDON-I could not contact AlBENd-1,

thus MWIND-l's roturn to tho Urited States did not cause the

mulllelty attr thint was Initially anticipated.

In WAVE 6170, dated 23 Narch 1963, AUCARBON-1

reported that the Identity 3 was attempting to rescarch a full

feature article on

the bay of Pigs InvasIOn.

The Intent of thie

artielo mao to furolab a recapitulation of

tho ontire tactical

situation.

In this connection, AlCARBONd polated out that he was

U#* PRATIOUS EDITION.

CLASGIFICATION

BECRET

PAGENO.

CONTINUEO

---

## Page 5

I NUATION UF

DISPATCH

SECRET

UFGA -14781

FORM

#.80

530

thinking about exposing the role of liand attorney Alext. CAllSON,

residing 143 Curtiss Parkway,

Staml Springs, Floridi,

• tho

Bay of Pigs operation.

of nny current intercet to ltUrAN,

ANCARDON -l Blaird that, le CARION more

then the Identity 3 would

soft poddle the CARSON METO, REUTINAN AUVIGON AUCANDON-1 Lat

bo lind. no Interest 1a CAlLSON but knew of bim and mis of the

opinion that CARLSON ans a sound and honoat atturney.

The recolpt

of this operational totellincico cabled

JaWAVE tO DriOr CARlION

on tho Identlty 3'a ovor-all intorest In the rolo that. CAll SoN had

playod in tho Bay of Pigs Invasion:

WIth MCANION -1.

worlo AlCARDON-l did attempt to pursue thie

Bay of Pick story, no povor dig put anythtus into print ee the tor

over takon by othor dovelopmonto before AMCANON-l coüld flogh

big research.

IN WAVE 0904

COd July 1963, ANCARDON-l adviood

WAVE that Mr. Trevor "ATBRISTER, in associate editortor the -

Saturday Eventog Poet, was in Ntant duriag July 1003 attempting

rosoarch a story rogarding the possibility that stratogle

mretles vero hidden 10 Cuban caves.

This Information onablod

JHAVE to loop Headquartors informed on sonmattonal typo articles.

bich icht be appeastog rolative to Sortet miealtos ta Cube.

In VAVE 4701, dated 20 September 1003, ANCARNON-1

BOVO JIWAVE big resumo of

tho discussions which he and with

BuDdY at the Miami Playboy Club on 19 Septonbor 1963.

Information une useful to obtaining an ineight into what AuDIOYl

way tolling the press.

In WAVE S66l, dated 10 October 1903, ANCAIDON-1

roported on a discussion

that ho hod bnd on 10 Octobor 1063 with

ALBIDDY-L's public rolations my.

This oporational intelligence

was useful in terms of keeping KUBARK advisod ae to what A"BIDDY-1°g

roprosentativos vore tolling the outside world about their

oporattonal actfulties.

JWAVE about tho

boing rocolved at the Identity 3 relative to so-called KULAnE

which wero located In South Flarian ratore.

information alorted JNWVE to tho fact that prosa scrutiny was

noing to ho directed toward the Identity 5.

Armed with this warn-

JWAV? ray ablo to tiko netion which mioimized the publicity

reporcussions fron & ronowed press intorest in the Idontity 5. • .

In HAVE 7071, dated 16 November 1063, MICATION

roported to JuWAVE tho fact that bo had receivod

a lettor from

Peru which contalued an intoresting operational lond to one

COTOS HOUTALVANO In PuDo, Poru.

This lead was orantned by JuvAVE,

Headquartera und the Limi

This examination rovoalod

that the lottor was written by a crackpot; thus, thero wus no

renl operationnl potontial in this lead..

ubts incident did underscoro

that MICARBON-] 1g wllling to bring potentially similleant

operational loads to JAWAVR's attention.

n.

In TAVE 1614,

dated 6 february 1964, ANCARDON-1

Advisod JWAVE that he bad received numerous telephone calle

indicating that Armado Androa GUIROL Forto,

who had defectod

from a Cubun fisbing vessel might be an individual who had previoualy

been seen in Miami duriog Novenber or Ducembor 1903.

At tho samo

AUCARBON-] polated out that he was suspicious and thought

timo, noso telephone calls indicated that GUiROLA was not a bond

Ilde defector, but was either & GOC agent of & KUBARk plant, who

was boing used as & means of creating an incident which would

embarrass the GOC, as a result of their fishing boats ponetrating

VER PREVIOUA EDITION.

CLANSIFICATION

SECRET

CONTINUrO

PAGE NO.

5.

---

## Page 6

Unitod States torritorial matern.

REUTAN advined AUCArDSN:1

that KUluR had played no role in nounting a provocation oration

aralint tho Goc:

At tho same tine

REUTINIAN pointed out tbat

It was highly unlikoly that Curiold was a CoC ngent.

An a rebult

of this conversation, arrangerants were mado for JiAVE to check

out cortala sapocte of the GUIlOLA story.

Al tho bano time,.

ANCARION-l me provallod upon nut to writo a story which siaht

¡ond the pubile to apeculato on whether GuiROLA was an arcot or a

plant in a propaganda play denigned to ombarraos tho Got.

PROPAGANDA OUT IT.

ANCARDON -l has boon uned successfully,

during

to portod govorcury this roport, ag a propaganda cutlet

throug which tong of toterent to kumka could le muraceo o

tho tro world pross.

10

EX o8 how ANCATION-I has been harbeneed

fold up outlined belowe.

ANCIAD L. The ANCrAB-I dofection story orfeinally

wurtaced in thon ans area on 13 October 1003 via the Diarto de

lan Anorican, hich played up no API folosso from Montovideo.

The APl: Montoyideo otory highlighted MCluB-l"" Intormatio

rolativo to coc activition in Urugury. the story, in the viare

de lao Anoricus, had an extreecl linitod Impact on Spanion rcader.

it wis docidod; to do verter,

ot tenturo atorto on ANCRAD-l, pointing up tho fact that ANchis!.

wan typical of the voterans of tho Grunma oxpedition, who felt

they had teen botroyed by CASTRO and had boon relegated to punittons

of obneurtty once the rovolution tind put CASTRO in power.

ASCALDON-

was briefod in dotall on the ALCRAß-l story,

and ho mao bluen in

opportunity to debrise ANCrAt under controlled condition to a

JunAve natobouso. Mitor comploting his dobriefing, AlCAti-l

vroto & sories of fonturo articles on MicrAB-t.

Tho firat article

in tho verton recolved front pago headlino play. Tho series of

articlen on MCK\B-l wore well writton,

and. thoy provided ar

escollent por for JMAVE to count a replay opcrution via other

propaganda asscts.

MiCAREN-l's story on ANCRAB-l way picked ap

by UP], API and othore,

and tt was playod throuphout Latin Amrica.

The dotatla of thie

surfacing can be found In WAVF. 5820, dated

11 October 1963; YAVE 6092, dated 19 Octobor 1963; and, WAVE B174,

dated 21 October 1903.

JUWAVE learned Hint wien W. charles durrime

Charlch Gnirfin Shrimp Boat Store sons vent, to Cuba

On 26 February 19642

to reclaim tho histacked shrlap boat JOHNNY reb

they tound that

solect items wero misains fron tho bont when it was

it was bolloved that this information would nake a good

human intorost story which JUlAVE assoté could use to counter coc

propaganda claims that United states officials hnd stolee items

tho Cubon fishing bonts which had violatod United Stater

torritorial waters.

In view of this opinion, a steoring tip vas

givon to AMCANDON-I to have the Idcntity 3 ropresentative in

Key West intorvlow Mr. GRiPPIll. Thia intoryiow was carried out;

and in articlo outlining the pointe which wore of toterest to

JHAVE was publised ta the 27 February 1904 edition of the

Idontity 3.

LAYC Story•

The March 1901 LAYC mooting In Santiago,

was not rocolving appropriate coverigo in the South florida

& result, REUTENAN contacted AMCARDON-1 on 5 March

suggosted that the LAYC mooting wag a story whics the

Identity 3 should pursue.

AL'CARBON-I was grateful for this steering

he assigned the task of preparing the story on the Late

to one of the monbers of his stall.

A story on the Lafe was

subsequently published in the 6 March 1964 edition of the Idcatity 3

(COMMENT:

Copies of the articles cited in subparagrapha a through

• abova are attached for deadquartera intormation.

# 80

5Jc8

1401

UES FATVIOUE EDITION.

CLAASIFICATION

PAGE NO.

SECBET

CONTINUED

6.

---

## Page 7

USUN-ANO.

PO31

TELLIGINCE

Attempta have been mado-to

obtain diason.

no positivo intellience from AlCAlioN during

the ported favore by thin report.

Thio attempt hag boon concenlly

lo that AMCARUON-1 doos not havo a rent numer of

condarigone lappe

¿America who would atvo him nccess to wortinhilo

approciably in advinco of the information appearing

in tho ovort press.

Ae a rosult, ANChWON? la unmlly not niro of

Insido dovolopmonta in

any batin

American country; connoguently,

ho 1u not a

worthwhile sourco of poettive latolllecico.

matter of fact;

ANCARDON-1 1a lena valunblo as a sourco:

of positivo

Intolligence thin sost Journaliate.

Tho 10, attributablo soloy

to bin lnck of, long standins contacte, in the Latin Amorican politica

It 15 bolloved that AMCARDON 2 12 ultimtol ovorcomo

cbte

thor tcontar;

thus,

i 0:112 continue to attompt to haross him f

the colloction or poultive intor tronce:

0..

COMINT.

In tho per tod covorod: by this roporti AlCANON-l

han boon toumpto be a straight fon ard individual who le honest,

cooporative and who underatands the need for securtty.

Our

o that

indicatos that ANCARDON Vig an accurato roporter

information which lo passce to KUlARs In violof this,.

use Plane to continue to harace MIcARDON, 11m tho: mamo mannor

that he hanscen unedin the past. To sto bel toved, that our fola-

tronahip with NICARDON 1 chances: our ability to Conduct. our

apon to minimize the possiblity that inve night have distre

curtlos with tho modia outlots in tho South Florlde proa

Aa a

ronult of our continuing rolationship with AlCEoN 2, a spocal

notivities report 11l be foruarded at ppropilato intervale.

10.

It

1u requestod that a 201 number be agnigned ANCARDON-l

and that Juwiva do edvised of the number.

END OF DISPATCH

80

101

UDE PREVIONA LOITION

CLASIFICATION

SECRET

DR'IN DUES

I comrauro

---

## Page 8

DISPATCH

CLADSIPICANIOY

SECBET.

Soparato Cover Atachme

D: t0 VFCA-11781

Identitios - 1 - Tho Miami Nows

2

3 - The Mtam Herald

S: a The LiDA

DISTRIBUTION:

3

Ch1o1n

SAS

RI

Chrono

AMCARDON -1 201

1

- COs

Chrono

desarraiine and

SIIFICATION

"PAGENO

---

