# 104-10433-10027

## Page 1

104-10433-10027

118 - 584

26 November 1963

Disposition - This document was denied.

shis document is-concerned

exclusively with information received from a foreign intelligence service,

The document is concerned with events which took place in Europe sometime;

prior to the assassination of President Kennedy:

The information is a

product of a sensitive operation conducted by a foreign intelligence service

This is another instance of activity which took place prior to the

assassination which ultimately proved to be unrelated. to the assassination.

The document also contains operational cryptonyms, information which

confirms the existence of several Agency stations abroad, information which

establishes the rature of Agency liaison arrangements with a foreign /2

intelligence service, as well as information identifying Agency componen

and containing Agency internal filing instructions.

This denial was made

under the authority of exemptions (b) (1), (b) and (b) (b) .

---

## Page 2

13-00000

RECORDS OFFICER STAMP

TO

FROM

INFO

ROUTING

• DIRECTOR

(BERN)

Sianed

R.D. #2 - 19 COPS/RYA

flote:

I destruction, cite

15

DATE 2630063

OUTING

Pa, 2, 2, 02

ODP, ADDP, C/CI, C/SR 5, D/05 2,

VR

IED.

SECRET 26190TL

TROY

20H01 63 IN 6 8 344

IMMED TATE DUE INTO TEDIATE CONVA CITE BERN 2493 0

CLASHICATON AXE STERL

fir.

CONDUCTED ON.

_ IMPDET CL BY 012208

1 9

FOLL STATION COMMENTS RE SUSSTANCE PARA 3 REF BASED

EXAX INAT TON OF REF MEMO AND INANITION 6 TELEPHONE ANSWERS

TO ELMARD QUER LES. *

73

EP 2E(DEL DELICATE 'SOURCE REFERRED TO ISI

for EOlA Review on

APR 1976

IN LAUSANNE APPARENTLY UNDERTAKEN BY

AT

INANITION

Documen! Number

118 - 58

REQUEST. EXISTENCE TAP NOT PREVIOUSLY KNOWN TO STATION.

APPEARS

LIKELY IT UNDERTAKEN IN RESPONSE TO STATION REQUEST FOR INFO RE

GIBSON TV CONNECTION "REVOLUTION NAGAZINE AND HIS AND ITS

CUNNECT IONS TO CHICOMS SUISSE, OR TO GATHER DATA TO REPLY TO ODENVY

REP REQUEST FOR INFO. ANTICIPATE CAN CLARIFY THIS POINT IN TALK WITH

INANTT IÓN & ON 27 NOVEMBER.

220/55730022

10 13 44050

AC1027923

SO TV ANSVER TO ELVARD QUERIES ENANITION 6 STATED TAP, INFO

THAT UNKNOWN PARTY

IN

CONVERSATION WAS NOT NATIVE FRENCH SPEAKER, PROBABLY NOT A SWISS,

FROBABLY A FOREIGNER. INANITION 6 FROMISED CHECK WITH INANITION)

INSPECT OR AND HAVE TAPE) CHECKED FOR POSSIELE FURTHER

CLUES TO

IDENTITY SPEAKER

201-289248

GS COPM

1200-5-41

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

Encludied

---

## Page 3

13-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SEGET

IN/85+4 PAGE 2

4.

APPEARS CLEAR GIBSON REFERENCE THROUGHOUT CONVERSATION

IS TO ACTIVITIES OF FAIR FLAY FOR CUBA COMMITTEE WAITH WHICH HE

AND OSWALD ASSOCIATED.

SECAN NOT IDENTITY PERSON IN NEW YOR REFERRED TO AS IN

CH CREE OBABLY LEES PHONETIC.

POSSIBLE THIS COULD BE

no denin

REFERENCE TO LEE OSWALD

BUT FROM CONTXT THIS SEEMS UNLIKELY.

6.00

SAN: NOT IDENTIFY PERSON REFERRED TO AS "TIBOR" (PHONETIC O

FROM CONVERSATION CONTENT CAN NOT IDENTIFY OTHER CALLER

SPECULAT IVE COMMENTS BELOW.

i trie

MAY BE ABLE IDENTIFY OR MAKE BETTER

HYPOTHESIS AFTER TALK WITH NANITIONS RE DETAILS OF PHONE TAP

COVERAGE, INCLUDING WERE UNKNOWN SPEAKER APPAZENTLY LOCATED.

SUE CLOSE ASSOCIATE GIBSON IS FREDY GILBERT NILS ANDERSON,

BORNET FEBRUARY 33, LAUSANNE, SWEDISH NATIONAL, LAUSANNE RESIDENT,

EDITOR-PUSL ISHER. SEE ATT TO ESBA 12659 FOR FURTHER INFO

ING CONTACTS TO CHICOMS BERN AND PEIPING POSSIBLE THESE TWO

MEN MOULD CONVERSE IN FRENCH BUT ENGLISH WOULD BE MORE LIKELY LANGUAGE

POSSIBILITY OTHER CONVERSATION PARTNER IS JACQUES VERGES,

any 051 CT BAT

COMMUNIST FORMER DIRECTOR OF LA-REVOLUTION AFRICAINE, NOW BASEr

PARTS.

NOTE VERCES CLOSELY ASSOCIATED WITH CHICOMLINE IN FRANCE ANg

IN SUISSE, HAS BEEN IN CONTACT WITH SWISS "CHINESE COMMUNIST"

SPLINTER: PARTY CENTERED VEVEY. VERGES, ANDERSON AND -GIBSON

2019

'ASSOCIATED NEW ISSUE OF MAGAZINE PRINTED IN MONTREUX.

PUEL ICAT ON NOW BEARS TITLE REVOLUTION, SUBTITLE "AFRICA, E

- LAT IN AMERICA, ASIA "

ED IT TONS IN SPANISH, FRENCH,

ENCL ISH.

10•:

IN ANSWER ELMARD QUERY INANITION.G STATED PHONE, COVERAGE

GIBSON, CONTINUES AND PROMISED ARRANGE PASSAGE CONTENT TO STATION

SECHEES

---

## Page 4

13-00000

CLASSIFIED• MESSAGE.

SEHET

IN 68344 PAGE 3

AND COENUY HEP ON IRIORITY BASIS, WILL DISCUSS DETAILS AT 2Y)

NOVEMBER MEET®

11.

INANIT ION 6 INDICATED REFERENCE TO LIMIT SET FOR

GIBSON DEPARTURE FROM SUISSE BEFORE 15 DECEMBER 63 REFERS TO

SWISS DECISION NOT TO RENEW HIS RESIDENCE PERMIT BEYOND

THAT DATE. WILL CLARIFY AT 27 NOVEMBER MEET.

12. KUBARK ONLYS ODENVY REP BERN CAELING HIS HOS MOST IF NOT ALL

OF UNANIT TO MEMOS REF. IN INTERESTS SPEED STATION OFFERED HANDLE

ANY TRAFFIC HE WISHED ORIGINATE BUT HE FREFFERRED HANDLE VIA HIS

PRIVACY CHANNEL NOT AWARE WHAT COMMENTS HE MAY MAKE RE CONTENT

OF NANTT ION REPORT, ESSENCE BUT NCT ALL DETAILS ABOVE INFO GIVEN

TO HIM ORALLY IN DISCUSSION PRIOR TO DISPATCH REF AND THIS CABLE.

HE PRESENT DURING ELMARD PHONE TALK WITH INANITION 6. WILL

CONTINUE FULL CORDINATION WITH HIM RE REF MATTER.

13

KUBARK ONLY& AS HINTED IN UNANITION MEMO AND ORALLY

•BY INANITION 6>TO ELMARD, INANITION WORRIED RE POSSIBILITY

ODENVY MIGHT FEEL UNDER SUCH PRESSURE RE KENNEDY ASSASSINATION

405922706

THAT SOMEHOM IT WOULD LEAK INFO RE GIBSON AND OSWALD CONTACT IN

BANNER WHICH WOULD EXPOSE

BELIEVE

WE CAN OBTAIN ALL INFO FROM PHONE OR ANY OTHER COVERAGE

OF CIBSON OR ASSOCIATES AND PROBABLY GET ACCESS TO ORIGINAL

TAPES AS LONG AS QUESTIONS OF "COURT RECORDS" OR "EVIDENCE"

ARE

SOFT PED ALLED.

14 .

ANOT HER CABLE FOLLOWS.

CECRET)

C/s COMMENT:

"RE GIBSONS ASSOCIATION WITH "FAIR PLAY FOR CUBA COMMITTER" AND ALSO

(WITH LEE HARVEY OSWALD.)

201-2892418

(SECRET

200-5-4

---

