# 104-10147-10301

## Page 1

10410147-0301 LE SEC DISSEM OY LET PER.

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED.

TOTAL COPIES 37-2.

SECRET.

RUN BY

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER

ISSUING OFFICE IS

PROHI

ADVANCE COPY ISSUEDISLOTTED

BY

ACTION UNIT

10.

RF.

FILE.

VR.

deplans, el

CA3

DAOL

ACTION #

ISES, LEURE, ASAlIS C/SIAEL

STAFF

2

3

325447

E1A549

FAGE 21

o<c)

TOR: 291001Z NOV 77

IN 459495

33877

SECRET

0909457 NOV 79 STAFF

ASCA

CITE

33277

DTC

putting

I meno

TO :

DIRECTOR,

No is

pass to

WNINTEL RYBAT REAM SYMPATHIZER MACOLOR

REF: CONHA-4841I, 4 MAY 1977

togetiana i

1is

on

Media

1, SENSITIVE SUMPATHIZER SOURCE INDICATES THAT ON

3 00TOBER WILLEN OLTMANS MADE AFPOINTMENT MEET WITH

CUBAN AMBASSADOR, THE MAGUE: OLTMANS STATED HE GOING "TO

• AMERICA ON ISTH" AND THAT HE " IS INDEED PREPARED TO

1. 60

AT THE BEGINNING OF NOVEMBER AS ARRANGED".

2. DURING DISCUSSION, OLTMANS SAID HE ALSO HAD

VISIT SONEDULED WITH RUSSIAN AMBASSADOR ROMANOV FOR

3 OCTOSER AND WANTED COMBINE TWO VISITS FOR SAME DAY.

OLTMANS WAS TOLE AN ATTEMPT BY CUBAN AMSASSADOR TO

SCHEUDLE MEET WITH HIM DURING SEEK 25 SEPTEMBER HAD

BEEN UNSUOCESSFUL BECAUSE OLTMANS COULD NOT BE REACHED.

OLTMANS STATED HE HAD BEEN IN SOVIET UNION THEN.

3, ABOVE EVIDENCE OF OLTMAN'S CONTINUINO CLOSE

CONTACT WITH QUEAN AND SOVIET DIPLOMATS AND HIS RECENT

TRAVEL TO THE USSA AND APPARENT CURRENT TRAVEL TO CUBA

SECRET

22225

---

## Page 2

14-00000

CABLE SEC DISSEM BY

PER

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

TOTAL COPIES

SECRET

RUN BY

ADVANCE COPY ISSUED/SLOTTED

ACTION UNIT

BY

AT

RF.

FILE.

VR.

N

2

ACTION #

•

T 325447

E!A549

PAGE 2Z-22

TOR: Q91021Z NOV 77

1S OF INTEREST IN VIEN HIS NOTORIOUS ROLE AT THE TIME

OF THE DEATH OF GEORGE DE MONRENSCHILD. LATTER WAS OF

INTEREST BOTH TO SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGNECE

AND HOUSE ISSASSINATIONS SUBCOMMITTEE. IF HOS DEEMS

IT APPROPRIATE, NO STATION OBJECTIÓN TO CONVEYING ABOVE,

WITH ADEQUATE SOURCE PROTECTION, TO PROPER CONGRESSIONAL

AUTHORITIES.

4. FILE:

221-155221.

E2, IMPDET,

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER

ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMI!

STAFF

IN 459495

33077

# IS SUGGESTS ADD: DISSEM TO: DIC

S

C

R

E T

---

