104-10437-10079}

"Blanket" req

ITED S'

‘At

lemorandum

To : Files

FROM : M.D. Stevens

surject: THE LEE HARVEY OSWALD CASH = #35116)

1. According to a newspaper column of "Alien and Scott" in
Chicago American of 6 Decenver 1963, on the 0:
Legal Officer of the State Department, was on
nediately responsible for OSWALD's being permitted to return to #
United Stetes from the Soviet Union in June 1952, The oi
named was Llewellyn THOMPEO#, the, then Anbassedor to Russia.
said to have been involved in the handling of 0S
WISE, Counsel of the American Eubussy in Moscow

2. Abram CHAYES, #352234, who as of 16 February 1961. wes di
as “the new Counsel in State", was grented Security approval for 1:
contact with J. Foster COLLINS (in the office of the Chief of the
Action Staff) on 6 March 1951. The request for CHAYES' clearance
& to permit discussion with’ him of 5812/2. met

‘oasis. © 97 5, £

a’ naed~to-kad
3. In Septenber 1961 there was a White House namecheck request on
CHAYES' wife Antonia (Toni) Leigh CHAYES, ned: HANDLER.

4, ‘Im March 1962, CHAYES was granted a reneval of his lieison
contact clearance with G/CA on a continuing basis. This time his contact
was Archibald ROOSEVELT, Jr.

5. On 10 Februery 1962, HUMAN EVENTS reported as follows with
reference to CHAYES:

"SOFT ON COMMUNISM: Representative Francis H. Walter (R.-Pa.),
Chaizman of the House Committee on Un-American Activities, hes
scored the nev State Devertment regulations on passports, clain-
ing they would allow Reds denied passports to "rifle freely the *
confidentiol files of the FBI, the CIA end other investigative
agencies." The rm: ind the new regulaticus, which Welter
clains violate the Internal security Act of 1950, is reportedly
State's chief legel of a Chayes. Chayes, a Kennedy
appointee, is an ex-Harvard pr

Nucaber

for FOIA Roy



13-00000

6. Samel WISE,
a to xbove,
SD & SED, who apparen
The State Departm WESB's Tile on 2 June 195%; ana
ber 1962 a Somuel G, WISE was Second Secretary of the Ame:
y in Mosedw, At that time advised in a cable to th

cent

DAVIS' case is very similar to that o:
OSWALD; and he, like OSWALD, lived in the Sovi ion for two ye:
after his defection and prior to meking application for return to the
United State:

7. WISE was an applicant for CIA employment in early 1953 and
was security approved subject to polysreph on 11 August 1953. He did
not enter on duty and in Septerber 1953 the office which had been
interested in him vas "no longer interested". On 13 November 1953,
WISE vas granted a CSA to permit his use as a contract employee on
AEACTIVE in New York City. His CSA wes canceled on 2k March 1958.

8. WISE wos nawed as a friend of William Orville MUNSELL, #61693-DL,
during an investigation of the latter for possible CIA employment in 1952.
WISE, according to HUNSHLL's landlady and social acquaintance in Wesh:
D.C. "auring the period of about.a year vtiich ended in, April 952,
only person she kmew by name with whom MUNSELL Was friendly. Accor
to the informant, WISE was a student at Columbia University vhose sadriss
was 423 Furnald Hell. MUNSELL was Security disapproved for CIA
in June 1952 because of his close association on a professional and social
basis, while attending Denver University from 19l6.to 1951, with perso:
of questionable loyelity. In November 1954, MUNSHLL was of interact +.
project FJALIVE with reference to assignment to}
however, the interested office withdrew their request on him, after
Security advised of the derogatory information regarding hin.

9. WISE from 1951 to 1954 attended Scarsdale High School in Sear
New York, which was’ attecked by a Citizen's Group, which alleged Cow.
influence in the school system. He had several questionable associates in
addition to MUNSELL.

‘hays Sittccs

M. D. Stevens

