# 104-10291-10017

## Page 1

104-10291-10017

FILE TITLE/NUSBEN/VOLUME:

NACHENHUT CORP.

FILE

725805.

INCLUSIVE DATES:

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATIO:

ROOM :

DELETIONS, IF ANY:

DATE

RECEIVED

DATE

RETURNED

REVIEVED EX (PRINT NAME)

SIGNATURE OF REVIENING ORFIGLA

nostat

NO DOCUNESIS IAY BE COPIED ÓR RENOVED FRO: THIS FILE

65805

---

## Page 2

LA

20рів

* 2702

MATE CLOSIN

origer

'ACTIVATION AND CLOSURE

Page 2'

DATE EXOSED

REGIST

FATTORNED

MATE CLOSET

PH.0L

Si artic

IRACUSA

18 tee tro

COMEDAL CLOSINI

REQUIREREBTS

81 4466118-

141910700

MONTHLY REVIEW

13307 minese

Need delila

19C1200

fryl Burkey X7493

OGE DIS 1

свог

4/ с

quAL

Тити

find retar

posed ins

CONFTOSHE LAL

(RECORD RESPONSIVE REPORTING ON REVERSE SIDE)

E3, IMPOST CL. BY: PUESS?

1683-18-42

---

## Page 3

• CONFIDENTIAL

NOTICE OF CASE CLOSURE

30 Jung 1277

CARÉ NUMIS

Chic

65805

MH% EYELE HO CONTROENO MORS DI 8UE AROVE CASE QUIDIN, POH SHICH NEONILMPHIE VINE PURRIGHLS

•THE POLLOMINO RIPORTO MAV DEEN AUEMITICOS

BHOULD DiFORMATION

SPORTE WILL LE PUBLISICO.

EULSEQUENTLY DI RICEIVED KESPONSIV

E QUESTIONI MAY BE DISGTEO TO

TENION 1240

VENTS OF THIS CASE. TU% RESULTINE

TELENHONE.

Q

DD0/1N1/5Q.

DCD.Hiald.Olfeae (hick'osoppropriaes

1. Bonion

Chloyo

Delles

Dete vit

Bos Anodlos

XXXXXIX Allemi

O Alineopolio.

New Yoix

Philadelplita

Pinturah

- St,-loula-

_CONFIDENTIAL

E san trandico:

Stalle

Syrocuig

Woshington.

---

## Page 4

010

SECRET

65805

20 Decmeber 1976.

6C18

ATTN:

ND-0818-36564-76-

Attached for your information.

E-2 IMPDET CL BY

006875

SLi

---

## Page 5

0H648,*1

101920

CONFIDENTIAL

•Lailen felled in)

PROCESS SHEET

€ 434

NUNAT*

Doga

3483

110.

32

. 06

BUBJECT

CONTACT

BOURCE INON

AGLEABED

no-.

INDIVIDUAL NO..

OROAT

• TION NO.

sunker.

ĐA GẢN XẠ TỐN N

ME THOO OF'ÉO

INTERYIEN

OTHEA DOCUMENT

DIRECTÃO TO

OSB

FIELD COMMENTS

BREENCG :

THIP MEPORT

oTHer (Specity, below)

C 8A

=. )

Breie

mein alis

Alis

latile. di. einge.

Lue

MÃO

2ole0/3238

FORM 25

'de die ?.

drittre abentiide

INTERNAL USE ONLY.

81: 59165

OBSOLETE FRESIOU'S EDITIONS

the s1.1.

er nat.

is.

th:1

1l.,

CON FIDENTIAL

weil i.

BRANCH SECTION CHIEF

faci

3

1.).

---

## Page 6

SECRET 162040Z DEC TE SLAFF

CI:E

TO!

PHEADQUARCER S.

TOg

WNINIEL OMACE LITER NAL USE UNLY

01R-36564-76

SUBJECI /AREA:

C/. S8

FROM

Dec 17 9 15-AN 76.

WACKE NHUT CORPURATION

3200. PONCE DE LEON BOULEVARD

CERAL GABLES, FLORIDA

METH OF COLLE

INTERVIEW

FIELD COMMENTS:

CONFIRMI G

TELECON WE RECOGNIZÉ

¿HAT DOI 52-10 MAY PRECLUDE THIS USE AS CURRENTLY IN ERPRETED.

ACTIVITY WOULD BE D

J AND INVOLVES THE

PROTECTIVE, NON-INVESTIGATORY, CLIMATE OF IME COMPANY..-

110g

E2 IMPDET CL BY 011668

SECRET

---

## Page 7

INTERNAL COS CHLY

SECRET 162036Z DEC 7G STAFF

CITE

TOg

/HEAD QUART EP SO

UNINTEL/WONACE INTERNAL USE OiLY

10IR-56564-76

SUBJECTS

BEF g

Dec 17. 9 Is AN *76

CONTRACT.

:65 825

65131

SEVIOR OFFICIALS OF THEI

NAT JONAL, SECUATTY CAPAC TECT IVE ORGANIZAT ONE

IN THE FINAL

STAGES OF NEGOTIAT ING A USEA5 MILLION CONTRACT WITH THE

15. 03W CONTRACT RESULTS

FROM AN EARLIER SURVEY PERFUMEDE

THIS

EARLIEN WEAR INVOLVED STUDY OF 43 FACILITIES AND

LUCAI TONS,

INCLUDING REFINERIES, PIPELINE TENDINALS; PORTS, 01L

AND GAS PIELDS, POWER PLANES; LNG PLANI SA

LPG PLANTS, AND

OTHER

CRITICAL PRODUCTION AREÄS. FINDINGS AND CONCLUSIONS ENCOMPASSED

THE FOLLOWING:

A. EVALUATION OF THE CRITICALIIY AND VULNERABILITY OF THE SITES

3. SECURITY FORCES GRCAUIZATION AND EQUIPMENT

CO SAFETY ORGANIZACIONS AND EOUIPMEUT

MAINTENANCE. ORGANIZATIONS AND LOUIPMENT

INDUSTRIAL BUNS ATO TRAUM HOSPITALS

NEERMAL DOC DOCY

---

## Page 8

FO PHYSICAL. SAFEGUARDS

ACCESS CON.

I.S

1, DETECTION SYSTEMS

1O THIENDICI ION (RESPONSO SYSTEMS

JO DISASTER AND BIERGENCY PLANS

NO: TRAINING REQUIREMENTS AND RESOURCES

La FIA CIAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE ASPECIS

Mo. INSPECILOS AND TESTING

NO. NATIONAL PROTECIION STANDARDS:

O PREPARAT OF DETAILED DETAILED IONS FOR A REQUEST FOR

INTERNAT TOHAL TENDER

Poi

PLANNING COM THE DEVELOPMENT OF

A NATIONAL SYSDEN OF

AND USTILAL

SECURITY

A COPY OF THIS FIRST SURVEY CAN PROBABLY DE ACQUIRED,

NEW

CONTRACE, UNDER DISCUSSION, BUT ALMOST CERTAIN TO

BE CONCL LOED,

INVOLVES:

Ao. THE

SERVICES OF

NUMEROuS ON-SITE MANAGEMENT, TECHNICAL ADVISORY

AND TRAINING PORSONASLA

Do:

IDENIFICATION FVALUATION.

•DESIGNATED MENS DE SECURILY, SAETY, FIRE PROPECCIOUANI OF

ASSOCIATED EQUIPMENT®

Co.

PROVIDING ARCHITECTERAL AND: ENGIUZERING PLANS FOR AN INDUSTRIAL

BURY AND TRAUMA HOSPITAL, A FIRE DEPARTMENT,

SECURITY CONTROL,

CENTER, A SAFETY INSPECTION LADERATORY; A TRAINING INSTITUTE.

EQUIPMENT MAINTENANCE FACILITY;

AND THE SUBSEQUEN

CONSTRUCTION, EQUIPPING, AND OPERATION OF THESE FACILITIES.

Dio

PROVIDING DESIGN ENGINESRING PLAUS FOR AN EMERGENCY CONCURI-

CATIONS SYSTEM: AS WELL AS THE PROCURENENT OF EQUIPMENTY

INSTALLATION, AND CHECK-JUG OF THE SYSTEM.

FLA WISHENG PRE-FABRICATED MODULAR

SIRUCIURES TO BE USED AS

INTERID FACIL IT LES FOR

PER SO M

• LIVING QUARTERS AS WELL AS

OFFIDEN AND SPERAT QUARTE? QUIRTE?3.

THE PRECEDING LAS VOLUNTDEREO FOR POSTOLE OPERATIONRLE

• CONSIDERATION ON A VERY PRELIMINARY ASO MONCOMMITAL BASIS.

BY. D11558,

---

## Page 9

SECRET

1:09

65805

13 September 1976

SA/DDO:

'781615

Attached for: your information.

ee; copy sent to

P-2 IMPDET CL BY D06875

SECRET

---

## Page 10

SECRET PALADC SEC, 76 STAFP

CITE

TOg

•TO.

WNINTEL

SUBJI

IHEADOUARTERS..

CASE 63805 - 1

_ FROM

TELECON OF 9 SEPTEMSER 1976, SAMS SURJECT

FOR THE RECORD, THE PRIMARY PURPOSE FOR

REQUEST THAT 1 SEE HIM HAS TO ENABLE MIM TO REFERLA POSSIGLE

APPLICANT, FOR STAFF EMPLOYMENT TO THE AGENCY-

" I WILL

INFORNALLY

RAISE THIS MATTER WITH THE PERSONNEL RECRUITER WHEN HE IS NEXT

IN THE

OFFICEr

HAD-NO PERSONAL INTEREST

IN THIS

MATTER AND WAS SIMPLY: TRYING TO PLAY THE ROLLE OF A HELPFUL

INDIVIDUAL.

HE ALSO REVIEWED SOME PROJECTS THAT. HIS OR GNIZATION.

BE

WILL

INVOLVED IN BOIN LATIN AMERICA AND THE MIDDLE EASI

AS OF

THIS DATE IT IS TO EARLY TO DETERMINE

RIGHT NCY WE HAVE NO REPORTABLE INTEL

OR OPERATIONAL MATERIALS•

3.

ALSO DISCUSSED HIS COMPANY'S APPROACH TO EXECUTIVE

PROTECTION AGAINST INE THREAT OF INTERNATICNAL TERRORISM.

THIS

MAY BE

STILL

ANOTHER AREA IN WHICH HE MIGHT OCCASIONALLY VOLUNTEER

À USEFUL ITEM,

AS NOTED EARLIER,

SINCE HIS DECISION TO REFRAIN FROM ANY

INVOLVING THE AGENCY; HE SEEMS TOTALLY RELAXED

MY•

PERSONAL APPRAISAL NOW IS THAT HE WILL POSE NO PROBLEMS FOR US

IN THE FUTURE DESPITE THE UNPLEASANTNESS OF A FEW YEARS AGC

IMPDET, CL BY 011668

E

---

## Page 11

14-00009

SECRET

X708

BOUT DIE

29 Jui: 1976

15734

2:30.

FROM: L VIURADQUARTKRS (08C/_

CASE 69803

29 JUN 189

HONSOON OF-29 JUNE

MIB ASSISTANT CHIKRAL COUNSEL YOR THE DO PONIES NO PROFiLE

ACCRDING: TO

REQUEST OR MONA MIDIG; IN PACT, It

MAT HELP DEFUSE MIE SITUATION. ALLS JUVRE REQUESTS Of THIS NATURE

SHOULD AS REPORTED TO

HEADQUARTERB AND WILL BE HANDLED ON A CASE

BY CASE BA3IS.

B-2- IMPDET CLEY 006873

SECRET

---

## Page 12

SECRET

CASE 65805

DON-

Operation's

CIHISION

Excup/OSB

& July 1976

office of laspoctor

General - 2e24 Hos.

Matached for your

informatto.

Copy sent to

E-2 IMPDET CL. BY 006875 :

PET

---

## Page 13

1d-0d0d

SECRE

I 0217302 JUL. 76 STARF

CITE

TOB

HEADQUARTERS.

ATTN*

Jur 2 3 09 FN°76

SUBUT

• CASE 65803

REF

/HEADQUARTERS 19754

I MET AGAIN ON 2 JUY 1906.1101

HE REITERATED WHAT HE MAD ALREADY TOLO DOON INE TELEPHONE I

IMMED LATELY

AFTER CONSULTATIONS WITH HIS ATTORNEY SO CONSIDERABLE REFLECTION

HE HAS DECIDED THAT HE WILI NOT SUE THE

- REENCY OR ANY STAFFERS:

ON FORMER STAFFERS.

ME ATTRIBUTES THIS

DOC LEION TO WHAT HE:

CALLED

THE INORDINATE COSTS IN BOTH LIP

ID MONEY.

HE ALSO

VOLUNTEEKED HIS FEELING THAT THE AGESET

WES BEING KICKED FROM

EVERY SIDE AND

HE DIU NOT WISH TO ADD

19

THE PROBLEM®

THIS

WAS CONSIDERABLY MORE COMPOSED

AND RELAXED

AT

SECOND MEETING ALMOST AS

IF

HE HEZE RELIEVED AT FINALLY HAVING

COME

TO A DECISION.

HE THEN REPEATIO MALI APPEARS NOW. TO BE A

SINCERE OFFER

TO ACT ON A VOLUNTARY BESIS AID IN A NONOPERATIONEL

• CAPACITY AS

A NORMAL

HE PESTIONED VOLUNTARILY THAI

HE HAD SOUGHT

AND OBTAINED THE

THERE IS NO DOUBT THAT

15 INVOLVED IN VARIOUS

FOREIGN PROJECTS WHICH COULD BE OF IMAMENIONAL

INTEREST

AO US.

1 WAS,

_NONETHELESS, DELIBERATELY

VAS LE

NONCOMMITTAL WITH

REGARD TO HIS OFFER.

RELAT LONSHIP

HAN I MIGHT, HAVE BEEN

4T. HAVE BEEN LES

BERY OF

SOME SORT OF

PIRELY ON OUR FIRST

INTERVIEWE

IN ANY EVENT. THERE

IS NO DELEI

THAT WE WILL HEAR

FROM I

AGAIN. EZ IMPOST CL

3Ý 011668

SECRET

---

## Page 14

Case 65805

FUSS

Case 65805

2 July 1976

FI0 Key Edge -ad 63

_38 440284

Ce: SA/DDO

Actached for your Information la

a copt

É-2 IMPDET CL BY 006875

te to reduct.!

---

## Page 15

Jis 23

addl

SECRET 291A36Z JUN 76 STAFF

CITE

TO%

ATTN&

SUBJ&

/HEADQUARTERS

I CASE 65805 - LA DIVISION REQUEST FOR CONTACT OF

J OFFICER

28 JUNE 1976 TO TELL ME FLAP AFTER CONSULTATIONS ATEH

JTELEPHONED ME AT MY HOME LATE ON

HIS ATTORNEY HE HAS DECIDED NOT TO SUE THE AGENCY.

E2 IMPDET CL BY 011668

SECRET

---

## Page 16

14-00000

• CONFIDENTIAL

_SECRET

CIA

DA

REQUIREMENT CONTROL SHEET

REDUIFENGENT

PRITIATOR

DATE DO MATARREN!

22/03.

5

0/6.5:8

9

6

6

SUBJECT OR REQUIRENENT

Requeat for contact: Wackenhut Corporacion

ROUTING

DATE

INHALALS

3 SVICONTROUCASE DEST

• - ECONOMIC

! - SCIENTIFIC AND TECHNICAL

2- POLITICAL

3- MUTARY:

DED AGTION ON REQUIREMENT (Des Offcer chock ni

CATEGORY OF REQUIREMENT: (Dot ONce chest onel

S- SOCIOLOGICAL

0 - GEOGRAPHIC

- DOCHARHIC

MISCELtANEOUS

0B.

ement is accepied for action, under the abov

case number, on the following bast:

Its being forwarded to the field. (Specily, under Remarka")

Capabilly la known or believed to exist.

02

Capability is uncertain; but feld resources suggest possibility of collection.

03:

No capability is believed to exist at present; but requirement will be used if capability develops;

• It will do retained at headquarters.

Di.

B2.

The held is already alert to the need and will continue to report as information is obtalned.

Sources capable of at least partial fulfillment may become available; requirement will be drawn upon for their

graidánce.

[J Ii, ¡ Requirement is not accepted for action, for reasons given under "Remarks." It

Information and use if opportunity develops.

JIll. Decision is deferied, for reasons given under "Romarks," pending:

ĐN.

Further discussion.

UB:

Investig ton of other collection potential

JC. liveration of other customer interest.

OD.

Rens (by originator) of latest information, including réports)

DE. Further development of the reguirement.

will/will not L

be retained for

REMARKS

DATE

19.976

COPY # 1 ~ RETAINED BY DESK OFFICER

FORM 3734

10-74 MFG 12-74

_CONFIDENTIAL

SECRET

Classified by 00G607. Exempr from gangrat

daciansitication achedula

of

E.O,

11562.

tomption caregory 6B(2)

Imposslste.4

estemine dato of sutomatic declassificatior

120-3%)

---

## Page 17

•:.

9E3AT

23 June 1976

MEMORANDUM FOR:

ATTENTION_

SUBJECT

Contact with Former Staff Agent

This

will

confirm out green line telephone

conversation. of: 22

June 1976 concerning.

recommendat ton

that

contact

(201 309117)

a former

staff -arent

under the LPGLobl program.

recent y

retephoned.an Agency staff. officer with

whom he is

acquainted

D indicating that

he had intormation

of interest and needed. to

talk with sonc ong from the

Agency

is currently employed by the

Wackenhut Corporation

in the Miami arga.

2. We discussed this case with

Assistant General Counsel/DDO, who folt that a representa

Live

of the Agency should meet with

to sec

what he had on his

ming.

said we would not

be in violation of

any Agency regulations or guidelines.

since

was-the one requesting the mecting.

reconmended that contact be made through n

overt employcel

rather than through thel

Upon learning of vour two immediate intel renorts

on 22 Junc.

felt there may be a connection botween these reports and

Intormat 1on:

It is for that reason that

suggested that might want to, move rapidly on this

matter.

4. As mentioned on the green line,

C/LA/CAR/CARI

E2

IMPDET

CL. by 012913

SIGNET

---

## Page 18

1d-0d0

SEGUET

23 June 1976

MEMORANDUM FOR:

ATTENTION

SUBJECT

Contdct with Former Staff Agent

This vill

confirm our sreen line telephone

conver

22 June 1976-concerrine a recommendatio

that

contaCt

(202 - 3091715

a former staff

agent under the UPCLOBE: prostam. Mea

relephoned an Agency statt oftech wit

whom he is

acquainced

indicatins that he had information

of interest.

Agency:

and:

needed to tallowith some one from thee

is curtentiva

employed Beither

Wackenhut Corporation in the. Mrand

area,

2.

We discussed this case with

Assistant General Counsel/DDO, who felt that a representa-

tive of the Ngency should meet with

what he had on his mind. I

said we would not

be in violation of any Agency regulations or guidelines:

was the one requesting the meeting.

I recommended that contact be made throust an

overt employee

rather than through thel

Upon learnino of vour two imnediate intel reports

on 22 June,

WE

felt there may be a connection between these reports and

information.

for that

that

we suggested that

might want to move rapidly on this

4.

As mentioned on the steon lino,

LA/CAR/CARI

SEU

---

## Page 19

no made

il not regular be

x5530, 1e

2 31400

densess

C80ừ

Tate tot

---

## Page 20

đun 230n

SECRET 23(ASZ JUN 16 STAFF

CITE

10$

ATT HI

/HEADQUARTERS

CASE 63803

WACKENHUT CORPORATION

OR PORAT TON OFFICER

REQUEST FOR CONTACE OF

REF &

JHEADQUARTERS ISCOS

I AM MEET ING

AT VACKENHUT OFFICES.

PLEASE ADVISE IT

TO THE MEETING

TO REQU

OF THE C-MOUNSTALOES UNDERCUILOS

THE FINAL STATEMENT. IU PARAGRAPH ONE OF. REFERENT

ĐY: 0116686

SEGRET

232.

---

## Page 21

SECRET CALDOZ

JUN I6 STATP

CITE

INFO DIACETIR

PHEADQUARTERS

-080

SUNDA CASE 55815

REP & ÷ DOD/HEADQUARTERS 19603

РУВАТ

I MET

-AT. MIS WACKENHUT OFFICE THIS

MORNING AS SCHEDULE).

BEG AN

THE INTERVIEN BY

REQUEST ING THAI I READ A MULTIPAGE LETTER WHICH HE IS THINXING

OF SENDING TO THE INSPECTOR GENERAL

AID. INDICATES THAL HE IS CONSIDER LEON

MENAS IN FACT RETAINED COUNCILE MEANTEE OTHER ORAC

LEICE STAFFERO BUT THEY NAVE OF VETEDECIDEDS TIER TOX

OTHER ELEMENTS SHOLLD PROBABLY BE

MORED®

20

THE PRECED-INO NOT WITASTANDIN

FONE OF SAYING IMAL ME RESIONED FRON

UHO IS

I NOT TH

DULLED STATEST OFERED TONGERVE

CONTACT ATH RESPECT

TO CHEA

DEOLAR LI

ACKELMET DUTIES.

CONTACTS ESPECIALLY

MIDDLE:

I TOLD

CIRCUNST DESCRIBED

HOWEVER O

THAT VICO TA

10 PARAGRAPH-

AEOVDVARELTEHE

TUAR GERIATE.

FOR US.

MAINTAIN: ANY SYSTELATIC RELATTONSHEP

A THIS TuES

SHOULD

StIt

HE DECIDE NOT TO PROCEED WITH NAS

AND

OT HER.

THINGS FALL

INTO PLACES PERHAPS A FUTURE

USEFU, CONTACT

COULD BE ESTABLISHED:

HIS DUT IES

DID DROP

ONE INCR

PIECE OF

INP OR MẶT TON

. WHICH MIGHT BE USEFUL AGAINST THE CURRENT

377

SECRET

THROUGH A SUBCONTRACTOR HIS COMPANY IS

COMPAMY

SECRE

IS APPARENTLY PLANNING TO MOTHBALL, ER IMPDET CL BY 011668.

S, FILE

0586-958 65805

adored gulfe 76

---

## Page 22

•eatntt

SECKET

2268

PRIORITI

22 JuKE

1975

1100-

15603

EM CASEMCSBOS

AND. OBULCTVEV

LA PIY

ZIT POS CONTACI OT LACHARUI O

LA DEASTON PRONTOIO aEErOLH

UAONG

DOKESS ANDETELEPUOLE HUNBER

TI C909) 101 -1260

BERCHHAN

OL CIOCIY BVA ONA MADTMIO MACO TROLLMO NOM LOMION SOUON V BEE

]THE AGENCT LH 1970.

2. THROUGH AN LA DIVISION ONICER,

HỌL VHAONIT SVI TN SV LALIVUASMUI TOHIOY IV LLTN LOVIIOS CALSMOEE

MAt DE

USED TO PACILTTATE CORLACT ITTIL

TỊVNL TAAGTA LAHI SY LONNGIH SUI DO DATTONH 8001110200

RAYE TITPOR

IAT

ESNOGBAU NI AIO SI ASANONA MIRU SVU CAZTEMANA SVE NOIETAIO VI

RNQUEST TOR CONZACT WITH THE ACEACT.

LA LIVISTON PAS NO

PIOWN, ENTRREST X

Non ms oneAnt, omo ar camMt

• COUNSEL HAS CONCUREED IN CONTACTING

---

