# 104-10172-10345

## Page 1

104-10172-10345

0809°

05

Torater

22

(0 47-2123

65

05

(Dobrator)

05

01

VACCINO/

0'5 Lomateri

22(07H1/2423

22TH 72219

12 Apr 57

05

Lobrator"

green test

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

SECRET

paid: "

PERSONAL INFORMATION DATA

AD6#185

010I68 ADORESS

HOWE SOONITE

Haminic 2$118

INCOME

DATA 01

.. Do 55 (072-2202

80 f I Gor?

5'6" (ca.)

Ca. 1851080

dark

Jong, black

COMPLENION

Mango-

Low hals 11n0.

Wall dressed with

western

suito

Shakes hand from side to side when

Hecht descriptions.

. e8. 5931"g

Bliatening,

cloan-shaven skin.. Looks

Ilke Urainina peasants black hatre ser

of white tooth, brown inte

ово 7922 01º 20

Odessa or Kharkor

2T

WIre - in Finland; very attractive.

bo. 24/22/27 (0P1)-2356)

22

DOCLMENTATION

Subf'& Finnish noticabley weaker that SurGeler's (predecesor

PRETIOUS CARIE" AND EDUCATION

Speaks only Russel funds ascerding se eun statement (UrHA-219)

12z

Source said subj stated be had attended secondary schoal and the "Langua

Institute. a

Bucharest, Sophia.

and Moscowg

was wounded 6 tiresy Hels 1s ist foreign assigment.

boss 14-1

755556

OFHA - 235622

32 Mar 5Z

YACCINS/1] 01

4/57

y sallo, lots

rt, stocky

-2356)

13168

=)

notional and almost rept.

Remarked that be and his wife have wanted

to have children for past 6 yrse, but have had no success.

pleasant to source, but after sonowhat ruthless interview with some Flun

notbers who were begring hin to allow retur of their acns from USSa,

appeared quite stern. Source thought subj was hard Coardo, althought he

admired the material accomuluments of US. Feels subj ia very much & sor

Granto and 18 not defectablo. Teiry pleasant and jordal with good dense

5 1905

COSTILLE: subj 19 extrenoly, congenial & likoable & enjoyed

10 Tax P

plastes pact as sash l

[сті ага

воти ва. 498

•8 В $8

SECRET

22

180D

241BR

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECRET

DR-20-1239

?.

33 JuL 57

15 cuy,

2460:929

zu Mar

•59

Replaced

Subj'e face sAs comillar to scano; sibes alien lio nano anurco seatol

that there was a

Colo of this lass nato in the 109.

Suurco didli

not mou which tirectorato he uss in

- mighe to technical section

but lsew thal he was a farily high boss.

murce dould not rocall

whether he had orer seen subj so does nut inow 1e ehla 1a tha same

perceno

searching his hotrl.room in Moscow. Fou dies subj Agure in. this%

Lowater

FE 2119

СЛА 3127

26 Jan 58

Comratar]

OrA 2118

220-218

2

05.2113

J Jaa 58

CONTACTE

1o

Sourco invited to give lectures on muth in USSR. Soon after receiviag the

invitation, be and wife were in bar of lelaint restaurant, when suby and fou

RACKE, a Finn Connie, cane up to his table and Introduced themselves.

Bubj montloned source's lannent trip to ESSR. Subf told mane source

to get source to USSR and back without cost. Source intited subj and

RASKE to his boma for dinner following Sundayo Both accopted.

SUBJ paid

entire billo

When source went Sor Emb next day net Tarly TORONIN and subj, also

SERGEYEV•

Va Inrited binsolf to dinner with subj at sourcela bono.

Subj, VORONIN and wires went to source's for dirner, bearing many presenta.

RASKE: did not como.

Subj aschal told source "this RASE 1s a arine."

Polt that 1t necessary to uda thase Pion Connies palltically but that bey.

cannot be trusted,

fintti!

2.

Attended Consular Coppa lunch er. 10 dor 5? and spoke to Columtan Can

Subf Inrited VACCINE) to lunob wits hia 21 Jan 58, & told hia how auch

he knows about what goes on in Finland, anand - next page.

•''Source baljerod, Iran Ie, SERGETEY 1s subj's ebles.

Subj 1s new Consul replacing Ivan SURalY.

On 17 Dec 56 VACGly/l|went to farewell lunch with SERGEYEV and abi.

Great sense of laos, very quick, very sharp and witty.

Constantly

rofers to self as Ukraindan.

Wears double breated sulta - Western style.

Main sport is skiing.

Steng powerful bandshake, piercing artifical glances,

18 rory axoltable, flirtatious and tbe Into tall type, Loos to bat

and shakes his bead froi side to side whan de talka. Conversation

Implies that be 1a volloeducated and kaolodgable on dip busineas,

Marxie and current events involving the usSi. M18 Inowledge of life beyond

USSR 1a mengro. Table mannera are fair.

19-1

7597,406057

• Subs has rooently complainod to Johannos Viralainen that the Fli

sourity palloo viro so? parlag any airection lo cuses of Britial d

American espionage in Tialand, adding tast lou Sore Dad tafo se Western

esplonago 1n finland a sould de glad so nursis thas lifo to the seourti?

DO 31 DEO 57 VARTATION1 COLI

Hat subf had winitod Milster

02

14-1

17IBR

---

## Page 3

14-00000

0A/2226.

88 1458-95

22

!.!!

1.:....

Li..:

GOL UBe

the

COLTs had bald on the phase that do ma leine for reention (irerably

Balon) on la 15th of rose, TACCIT?| vas lo Meal OULTE so bour Ol

ropiled that the gumation la e little ble so dallesto los him 80 jut to 001.00.

O'Al though ma anted VhO DA!A lhou lone COLUs tale de posE sale he did nos taor i/

ant would try to find gut.

•De rePeronce lo your wild condera rogarela

roplies and commento desired to karasa OOLIP, but almost vithout amortlon

01 Voc Dis/ll bus turned tbur dovs an insopro; tinto, just no ho did on the abore

grantion re hancary.

so voald my that/Lacc Ink/ la not quito the honest 1be 0l

annica that ho ls aimple minded, on would l1ke to correct that Insalon.

pornon that bes managed to bold the jab that he hes for the arcond longest perle

22

CRL8913

52

3534

Sept 58

5. suh! doined the lalsinki Consular sorys, alch had irero:sly hat no

sino-soviet bla mors,

In the 1al? of 1?57.

sinee the consular fores

is not crocitie:lly a

"'ps' ern' toiy,

the come hull no tilid rrisori to

raniagtim ent!'.

is ?:r a3 is linoir, no otter Sino-jorict Floc reps hais

0z

so follared shy Lito the cera.

WIr's/1 told Franley that he had pond the interratior report on tAPID-

TORRID; case and hal subso gently talked in subj on suog's initiative.

Subj had called tir und invited him to luch and they had ret 4 Sent 53.

as 3368 01 8h ta 30 Sept 38, Vacan/ ald that subf had coco to bla some wieks ago lulo

3.00t 58

with some ITS letters whloh had bean salled to Sor personnal in Hals, and subj.

Of asked vi's halp la lavestigating this matcer..

..Suby told V/ that he had Ol

varned "hla people" to be vory osreful in Finland to do sothing atupid. What

22.

119091

• 50

write about ity subf talla Vn tid-bita of Info which otherwise would not be

¡Chat he has naver montloned samos - nor his relat onablp

with even the Suedian security polloe.

In lattor case mabi thinke trat vA's 0

contaote v Svedes aro v/the pollogoblofj os stoo.

8. Subj Introducod to Willtan L.

Costille al juncheon on 10 Dec 58. See photo

In Subjia 201 of Indialausle allending thia. Condular Corpo lunchool.

(Costello uno intiodenced too recovice onesed fres V.S.).

36/BR

---

## Page 4

14-00000

gid-ins.

(o7)?8 20.

20 35= 59

contablo 1ot--800

Basse ti)

17 1J 59

&Mag 59

22(ОРН] 392г

"12 Mar 59

IN 19930

22 My 59

22

0574) 59.3

10 Ju: 59

22

2 Jul 59

22

- 17 Ju)

393

59

72

OFHA-3983

24 JUST 3Y

suti ana ched aumlb on li ioc ala consumr vorng lanch,

salino tiat ho sua llin do lerito carini so linh soso elad.ee

sre un doo a t0c. lunch.

(se repure far

12.

See RIS il -

is otelousl tereresied in ittite, knos he sas

soing to the St,

vanta! lo flid one 1r rustllie tri any other reason for coira to the SU

lili sis prob recoire s aill report of the

suol plarai suatulle once after his return for

lunch, but Gestilie delinod besrio of a pregious engagement.

Cost lle expocts a prose call sa 5u0l sy71n s00s.

ostille had boen imitro to manier perforance of the luiot" o fel

Isys ago by gubl, ju: delinel baguse of a prerlous ergagatent.

E bros.

13.

Subj phoned Costille 4 Mar for linch on that dai Polite comersation

and no political logics vore discrissed. No mention vas made re

Costille's treatrent in the si.

si'b usually averajes about one

O phone call a weeko (report 1: 1011-=)

140

ASPANES 5 rotursad kiels 16 14r ros teninerado

Subi on sare train & said

ne accoquanial sor triter to Ler:ad

Discussed current events and

oubj's views Sor interest Finler.

(E stated te Ilenily, helprul during

bargage check and did sot sppoir suspiclous her trii.

Subj has phoned

VALI'S 1/sald subi wert Lenirgrad to reot Sov Intornal

scurity colice rep to security mensures GiRUstoHEy Soundinaris trip.

15.

Saport on subf's contacta with a and alo/s.

volgonoar

to le making quite a may lor

•?5 Jure Subj callod callod & 07

sald his vire wis leuving for tes

tay's in boscana that thera lás sono

nan in l'oscow she lored botten tra her tastini, (seo report attached)

16.

17.

18)

upper leve.s

Lo tasto feitirer.

Costilla's lunch sith JOlUE so se cino 59.

Subi snid he was not tasing

A vacation this jeur as new inb cantod hia to gesuin Finlan?.

Sub.:

asied Costille sbout his Russisa, secan astra tanll lur fors with hin.

Inile:tod nou cuiturd odricer dau ziven Costilla ne i would asio

Ala to a :1lm

udi suid his aia retinaira to sü ter? contre i re

•lad to be rif si ter tecnuse sia totterago tla i tat nou te could

brin: home whon he rinted.

ali imited castlile for lunch. 7 July ?

sald he bad beer un 21 evenire irintin

¿ hadn': duli sotoria up jat.

lo again sado derog renres the t's wire.. After lunch sulf Insisted

Costille accorren ht- to lis spunteoni la hear bla dusilia records.

(Seo remast for fuiler details)

Soo report for dotella conversatica botreen subl delpinals during

train trip Leningrad to Holsinki,

I8IBR

---

## Page 5

078573697

8 May 59

Z2(0NHA74045

b Ăng 59

CONTACTS (cont)

COUB

19) 9udg & Viktor F. CHALXOVSXIY have been cultivating young finniah Foraign

Offico personal all as youngor members of tbo. Wester Babassles, the smal

outine of dining, vining & movies; the above Westerners are 28033 years old

and all bachelors (Ba commants probably spotting & assessing)

20) Subj was Sor official who taliod with 2 Sor escapees who vore returnod to

tbe USSA by the finns (FORSELL & TUPITSIN); ascapeos hadasted to talk with a

Sor official when informed they would be turned back to the USSR. (Ibe 00D

versation was not recordod).

ZIBR

---

## Page 6

soollaneous (0018) 100p

Repent was

offlolala fron

the mallinga hal atoppal.

VACCINs/Juben querled by aby said ho had

Enlal to tuo persons in Staden no 2819.

subj was profuse in hia thanks

& sald tise it 1s a groat atop for his career that he will be able to

"- in is that

9-1

25 June 53

=23

PHA 363

26 Oot 58

the hipbost Intolligenco office the St has in Finland?" auty protostod

that bla Intorosta vero purely diploaatio ant that he bad no other than

noraal consular dutles.

As as alditional doncent to the conversation on

the NTS mattor, subf appeared highly aleased and remarked that Mosoow had

recently tald ble that hla reportlas vas far bottor than anthing.

(SERGEYEV had done. :!

+ ---

3.

Sub la 10 legue on 35 Jurn fur the Bail for pination.

a on ge, so pit to see, chi Caules Section:

10, At 17 Oot 58 contaot Dotwon Tiffany and VIrtor ?. CHALKOYSKIY, latter

sald he supposed that the American consular sootion bandled comeroial

mttars... that subj la bead of the Sovlot Embaasy'a consular sootion.

Ho added that subj le a vary fat man ubo spoaka very littlo.

"We have

a saying that sometimes peoplo uto spea: little know littlo."

77

OPHA 362

11.

FINE I ON

24

OFHA] 3800

12.

23- Mar 59

Subj on list of 8/10/58 as Chlof of the Consular Sectlon of the USSH

Babasay, Finland.

UFHA \3829

-24, Mar 59

TDCS 3/393,759

1 Apr 59

13.

Suby told COSTILLE on 18 Peb 59 that his wife had made a recent trip to

Noscow whare she visited her sick motter& that he had to pay personally

for the trip as he is allowed one paid vacation to Moscow a year.

spoolman of aignature of subf..

[0: 1A/3000

12 May 59

26 Mar 59 subj stated that KIRUSFC:37 1s plannin, to pay an unofflelal

visit to Finlani at the end of his Sualinavian trip in late dug 59.

Subj expressed the hope that there would he no Sovlet spy cases made

publie to becloud the visit. (Source commont: Two such cases aru

"presently under preparation by the finish

729.

15a.

Subj.told Costille that he would not te able to take a-summer vacation as

he had hoped because the Amb had told him he wanted him to remain in

Hels as he was the only person a officer rani in the Consular Section.

Subj said that he had been enjoring hirself very wich in Finland, Ilked

Finland and the Finns.

He said that ho was glad that he did not speak

English as he would then prob be sant to England or the l'S, which Il

In his odinion vere too far fron his hore in the St. Accang to subj,

this made travel home, as well as phose calls, too expensive.

sald that he would like to te sent nest to roscow and that over three

jears vas too lonz to ke awaj fras one's country.

Is on Jam 59 Dep Let in and Sing I Chif I Guander Section.

OfFE

HUBR

---

## Page 7

14-00000

i (corit)

01

My 1959

to Lenta rad

" antine with a represen tire of llo soviet

Intonal Gueully collen Caronenbly to!.

älle there, subj.

line tien innerstol to deterinn dill bernity precintions tha

¡olleo of suoleng

Porty and Don-urt lon

to tain to insure the

autoty of RUStler during hls injust viste to ia Goondinavian

countries.

During the conversation,

sulf was very criticsl of his

soviet colleagues in stoo, Oslo, & Bope,

for tholr Inilure t: develop

close relat ons with reprosentitlves of the Saurity follee of those

countri+3.

Suh! was worled not only shout his own inability to develop

tho Information rejuested, but also for the sifety of KRUSHChy. during

this trip.

subj did not. know for sure wiether k. would visit Finland on

this trip, but belloved that if he did, it would ocour after the visit to

the other three countries, and that any risit to finland would be jarely

22

OFWA 3931

19 July 59

unoffleial.

17.

Suf I1rcs In a larze sized apartment wilch is spursely furnished with

oni-molern and not nutloulurly in good taste furnishings.

sec nd is be about.

i subj's wife served meal.

after dinner le showsd-lickey louse & Donald

Duck 11ln8 &

seemed to anjoy them tremen ossl!.

sub stated t'at beforo

his wife and ho were married they had mean each other for a lone time eri

marlage just scened to he the next step.

He said that now he & his wife

ure "gool pals", and ho alon mentionod diat his wife,

altho she liked

Jels, dild not lise the wonther which caused her a lot of sickness.

Then

OlAs/s said trat t'o only thine for subj to do via to ask for a transfer

ns his alfe's health 1s more important than his job, subf responded very

quickly stating that she wis wrong, that the job was certiinly

nore Important to him than hls wife. Siby statod that he was an

orsiun and that the Connist system had o ven him,everyt ing.

07 sub Imilosted that he new about 13P/3's contact In the lisat

with

Vily NOCLOVSKY whom she had nethin the folshor Theater & wio had

ponisod to send her records. (nate that t/3 had never told anyone UL

In Finland beside WEL

Tabout thit contret)... Subj discoursed 14

nt lengt: ra comunisn-tsee repit attucted!.

On 25 June subj phoned

Wp15 to goy that his wife was leaving. for holidays in Moscow and that

there was some man in logeow she lover beiter than her iusband.

(See pdatact l 17 re wire of subject)

18) Subj to depart PCS for Moncon on 27 Feb 60, replacanant 1s Ivan Tefimovich

SERGEYEV, forner Consul In Helsinkd (HQ comment: SEROSYEV 13 KGB),

19167320, IN-16340, 26 FeD 60.

NIBR

---

## Page 8

TEHAI - 3168

2214/2/58

201-150156

1/BR

---

