# 104-10186-10238

## Page 1

104-10186-10238

INFORMATION REPORT

SINFORMATION REPORT.

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

mia material contatna informalina aloelns the Milloni! Datario ot the Unicod Biates menia the moaning el to sipionage lame Til

A, UB.C, Br 799 and ISL IDe Ipanemadon do trollon ol unich in any manner to an unsulbarad person la prohibital of lau

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

CoUNTry Cuba:

REPORT NO.

SUNECT Reinaldo MARTINEZ Garcia

DATE DISTR.

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

CSCI-316/01219-64

23 Septembor 19641P

.. 109

RETURN TO

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

DATE OR

INFO

1964

PLACE a Mnshington;D.C.

DATE ACO. September

1964

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION.

SOURCE ORAOINOS ARE DEFIMITIVE.

SHORE NOT NO ON CONTENT TOMATIE

SOURCE: A former

Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Service 'antil April 1964.

Headquarters Comments

The following report is one of a series containing personality

information provided

the source

and includes supplemental

information from the records of this

Agency.

I is requested that the addressees tako no action on any 01

the individuals mentioned in the

personality reports without

first checking with this Agency.

1.

Reinaldo MARTINEZ Garcia was a policeman and worked at the

Department of Investigations until 1963.

At the present time

he is working for the cuban Tolephone company•

2• MARTINEZ

Headquarters Comments

I. Included with a report dated 19 October 1960, was a list of

policemen who would be taking a course given by the

Departamento Tecnico de Investigaciones (Technical Department •

of Investigations • DTI) of the Cuban National Revolutionary

Appearing on the list was Renaldo MARTINEZ Garcia.

2.

In February 1961, & fairly reliable source who was employed

22233

by the Departamento Tecnico de Investigaciones (DTI) gave a

representative of this Agency a copy of an official roster i

Garcia, serial number 25925, grade 18, with & monthly salary

of $30.

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

KEENE

STATE

I DIA

REP

(Adata: Fialt diattrberteas

ARMY

CINCLANT

NAVY

CINCSO #

AIR

I&NS

AISA

X4X6X

1 OCR

BI 2

GER M

BORI

ATIONEREPORT

HU/SALEOBLHELS/R

MELHADR

ZIE.

01

4

2

CI/REA

_I WASHL

LX-1690

PROJECT (AMMUG/1)

-CSCI 316/01219-61

BIDLAN

WHAMAVE

3IBR.

---

## Page 2

i...... ia

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM CSCI-316/01213461

In a report dated 18 May 1962.

an untested source stated that

Benar, MARTiSEZ Garcia. o

de Investigaciones

(DTI), was a Communist of opportunity.

member of the Departamento Teend Source

said that MISTINEL NaS

born about 1937, weighed 130 pounds, is

Ive feet nine inches tall, and has dark broun hair and dark cyos.

DISSEM

---

