io-t0180-10062

ee / [ot .

care» 16 WFLEMBER 1959

to. OIRECTOR :
ftom + gece :
a HAVANA 4

yaCoT Tee

RSCG Obl 28CT,

ACTION: WH 5
"Os cop, FI, Fi/oPs, FUR 3s
PP/PMO, 100 4, 00/1, Ad, if "oe 7

IN 38553 -
HAVA 9693

care

4

OIR
INTEL
DA 16 DEC
APPR: PARAS 1,4 (2) PARAS, 203 (3) BARAS 5-6
SOURCE: PARA 1
OWNER (F) PARAS 2,3 AMARIA (B) PARA 4 AMBARK-1 (C) PARA 5
Ob [Harry raHan] (F) FROM hash (F) one

1. ERNESTO SUSVARA HAS MOVED WESTWARD. HIS EXACT
LOCATIGH NOT KNOWN BUT 165 MEN THOUGHT TO BE UNDER HIS
COMMAND ARE CAMPED NEAR MANACAS IN WEST LAS VILLAS.
GUEVARA IMMEDIATE OBJECTIVE BELIEVED TO BE TO CUT OFF
CENTRAL HIGHWAY TRAFFIC WEST OF SANTA CLARA, FC: AMBARK-2
CONFIRMS THIS REBEL STRATEGY, SAYS MAY BE PLANNING TRY
CUT HIGHWAY AT SANTO DOMINGO, $C: HEAVY TRUCKS CANNOT .
TRAVEL EAST OF SANTA CLARA. BACKROADS CAN GE USED SY
AUTOS AND LIGHT TRUCKS.

2. 26TH OF JULY REPLACING CTC LABOR OFFICIALS
WITH PEOPLE ON SUGAR CENTRALES WHICH IT CAPTURES.
CONRAD CQUER DIAZ, WITH HOS IN SIFRRA WSESTR?, IN SH*RODE OF

THE PROGRAM. «

Nee agg ULE
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED. Cony No


Tenet CLASSIFIED MESSAGE > 6°"

3. MANUELYRAY, MRC CHIEF, 1S VISITING. SIERA MAESTRA
FOR CONFERENCE WITH FIOEL CASTRO DISCUSS CASTRO DESIRE
DISSOLVE MRC AND INCORPORATE IT INTO 26TH JULY.

4, SMALL FEU FORCE ACTIVE NEAR COLISEO IN MATANZAS.
ARMS SHIPMENT SEIZED IN CAYO HUESO, FLA WEEK 7 DEC
WAS PURCHASED BY FEU FOR USE IN HAVA, 4,

5. GATISTA HAS CONTRACTED FOR SERVICES 2 FRENCH
ARMY OFFICERS EXPERIENCED IN GUERRILLA WARFARE TO
ADVISE CUBAN ARMY, ani-4 a
SUPDATA: HGS MAY WISH QUERY/PARTJON PARA 5.
DISSEM EB DEF ORALLY, = 8»
RELEASED 161835Z

“END OF MESSAGE

SECRET

Bea eee peODUCTION BY OTHER TRAN THE SUING DFFICE IS PROHIBITED. Copy Ha

