104-10173-10012|

. amr
H \
: 5-5 :
i + Cadel of Station, [Bruasala} 24 JUL 1957 :
! Cater, somifiea eg !
| Operational fizseontourg |
| ine eae i
WPCEICES: A, oh ab, (ste) ‘

es ee

eo 2

hy B06

SEE EME: Yer Your Information

uw ee nee ee eee
DaNvI.

2, One Privaills Post Soretsat, a United States citizen, bom on 19 July,
; 1928, at Gln Cove, Nex York ow! holding pessport masber 64545, ieoued at
| Woahington, D.C. on Hay 29, 1953, took steps in London to odtain a visa te
} wigit tho Soviet Union, Subject described herself sa sn exateur jourmnslist
Hl Scut Lae ee ee ee ee
af Strect, Landen, *. 1,

de Fhe records of the Pessyart Section, Anerican Fabessy in Leadon,
Aniieste that en Septenber 28, 1955, subject requested that her passport be Tee
validated for travel to Russia, During the interviev, subjoct stated that i
_, Uke reoatval a B. A. Dogrea at Bryn Nive in 1950, ent on HK. A» at Harvard 40 : F
: 1953. She elédssed to have dono resesrch for Sonstor Joim F. Kennedy of tae
Nassochasatts; bert worled for the Current Digaat af the Sovist tmeaa, 405 :
West. 117th Strest, lew York Oty, fron the Spring of 1953 to the Pell of 195%
end wae in the Researah Depertumt of Colliers Megasins in the Spring of 1955+
She elained mmberehiy in the World Student Federalists, whose purpose,
‘tng to her, wes to expand end strongthen the United Notices, ad ultiontely,

te form a world Goverrsat,

|
{ iH

I hh, On Soptexber 27, 1955, subject waste to the Exbassy to say that, a9 @ '
' student of soviet Lev, bor parjzoses for azplying for the Soviet Visa were to H

SEGRET

PIS

: RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce


an Senet -

ee
: brspatcn Bo, [oxsi}- sock

4

%
talk with legal experts, to attend court cases, and to visit classes at the
University of Kosecw, She further stated baie tppartserrehaaert esrapeedoand
hoped to cover @ story, previously unreported jest, and ¢ trace
the cane histories of one or nore of the soldiers formerly stetioned in
Austria who wore then being demobilized, She identified her nevepeper outlet
ag the Horth Ameriean Bowapaper Alliance, 729 West Lird Street, Hew York Citys

7
Se ‘tm October 21, 1955, the Departnent of State authorised the Enbasay

fe validate eubject's passport for travel to Rusela Froviding Sortet pendseion

to enter that country was granted. Gn Bovenber 17, 1955, subject presented @

letter fron the Inssion Embassy, Landon, viich notified her that her visa to

Busaia had beon recoived. Thereafter, cn Hévenber 22, 1955, her passpart

wan validated for travel to Russia.

6. Tho date of the UOEIVI information is 2 Jomary 19560

7. Be Paragraph 3, SGACTAESS reports that the World Student Federalists
4s an organization which ts a pert of the World Asacciation of World Federale
ists. The Werld Students federalists is liberal tut not considered leftist,
and ite purpose is es mentioned above. It was founded in 1947 end hee ite
headquarters in Amsterdam, BGACTHES3 has no record of Subject's sotivities
within this organization, H

RICKARD P, HAWES

ag v JOHK STEEN
wa/2/istetah ; .
att Fe es a
a Bos =
ar -1
55
CME /2 . W8/2/fruscels |
eas! eer «6 Coordinating Officer  Tuthentica cor
RY
= oat ere

BER
