# 104-10169-10318

## Page 1

104-10169-10318

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use. Daly

Do Not Reproduce

22

THE 57

16 12 01

18-1

p936

25 AuR 61

1.0.0

13:500

lunges imite. ioes

or i route corlempo?

Ard.3.con and so visits

find da rantine

musiness cancel he flies tiber of lios so jilject..o fats carto

personal data on sundvir. (Illai surivi:: 202)...

evening of 26 pr 61.

Subd's wire left ard li too men aiene...

about felsint-i ars Firin: 21: ceroradoe

ish! sald ate r crateating

pon the liniversit of lascos lin Inctituto, te held a first di, offlees

comission and voried in the let of refense in io.eon t'ruost the sirs.

att: denobilization, he hoi rena hact to is introrsit of laseow "er

nore studies and transierred to the inlet Forlon Service a- Felsia:1

Is his irst forelin post as a vico eonsue..e

(for detalla see are so

this dispatch fled in undill: 201)...

Sunrik is not lorr 12 in ste

Because of oor job : riorince und

uns vory lackeraind as 841l as

danger. of security risk, -armll: 13 astid to posten on 1 lar éloro

itt also gives account is mported lu Sundull: of Mis trip to osss...

Suby net CLASTONBURI (KUBARKR) Madmabratsutaterld: First timo at

Consular Corps function 9 Aug 61. Subj Irvited Glastonbury to lanch

name day. Subj pressed Soviet position re Berlin saring Berita will be

tout of Sovlet U.S. friendly ralations and insisted Sorg muld alen

pance treaty. (details being pouched)

Dotello pouched by UHA 5219 (eory in Suby 201) 4o7:)

Subj said he had served in the Artillery.

Said he sa a Vowinlan

bor in Poltava, was 35 yre ald (ba ca, 262 Said that In 196k wher

be only 18, spent three montha on the bulgarian front in the artil'ery

and participsted in the liberation of some of the Bulgarlan Jaar's vinod.

Present German situation discussed..•

Said he had been atationed in

Kishiner, Moldavll...

Subj said he would probably to on leave after

tourist season in Jetober and would bring his 56 I old dan back to

Finland w/him.

She was visiting her grandparents in Hosuor. Saby

said he had given up atting Innish since it 8o difficult, CLASTONBUR

Sound Subj rather dall, uninaginative, undiplonatio...

DCAR shoot covering portod, Augurt 1960 8 paramber 1942

4/pV

---

