i04-t0167-10287

03

; Me [He Telide ae <

Serr duly /, 1959 ;
DISCUS IOS PAPER i : {
{ i ;
‘edre Dias Lane i i x
1. Procedures: : : : t

1. Dies Lens to be released as soca as this can be doce in an
orderly fashion, with epyropriate coordinatica by publicity ancng U.8.
Go-erment axencles concerned aad between U.8. Covernnent aod Ding Lans. e Hi
Target dates ere vimaliced in taras or rouguly Thursday morning. \

2. Upon bis release, Ding Lair enould eet on his ova responsibitt' i

with respect to suything he night say to tie prese end there should : {

‘be no appearance of 5.6. Government sponsors=ip or enforsesent. lie :

should consider vnetcer, upon release, he wuld desire to seek tue pe

@18 and spoasorship of any exile Cuban elexeats identified with neither

Castro or Batista vaca be mey knov or know of in thie country. e t
3. Any contest with.or eppearance before the &-iate Internal.

Security Comittee should be nendledin guch @ way as it will be clear

that the arrangenente end procedures were arranged betveen the Cumittee

end Diss Laas without the intervention of the Recntive graacs.

4%. Dias Lang" plens:with respect: to Sts future residence and :
bis views re personel Frotection snould be eecertained ani acy H
sppropriate ection thereon should be discreetly taken by the agency 7
Principally concerned. 7 .

5. Any farther debriefing by U.8. Covernsent agencies should
‘be coordinated enong them, avoiding duplication to the caximm extent
possible.

2. Public Relationg:

i 1. Fo U.6. Government agencies should taitiate any ennomeensat

ete re Dias Lanz nor overtly ake aay arrangczentez to present Dias Lans

Stinystiawien. €0 the press or allow prees interviews to tare place at U.B. Government
installations. It is en inportant objective that the 0.6. Government
be identified witn Dies Lanz ae Little 80 possible. H }

He 2. Peading bis public appearance, all agmeies should state that :
: ‘they have no Laforaation. He i

; ; RETURN TO cla
Backgro se Only
SQurTDERTIAL ; alot leproduca :

Lawns

ho

eae


SerannogasnaPsngRNanEEEELSnECEE

Soret,

2

3. Is anever to ecy queries after nis public appearance, the
‘TRS represextative in Miami should reply: ‘

@) Dias Lent arrived in this country after Meeing froa Cuba.

}) Star Lans reported to 13S and vas adaitted to this country
a the basis of the documentation as a permanent resident
whieh he Led sequired during nig previous stay in the
United Btates.

@) Dies Lans requested the Im8 oot to reveal bis whereabouts,
expressing his concern ebout
femily recaining in Cuba end Ais dssire to cave nis
immediate fmily safely installed in the U.S. before any
publicity vas given to his figst to this country.

4) Ia ts e.reustences, the IBB felt obliged ta favor the
alien's request.

@) The 12S doss not know Diez Lens’ future plans or intentions
nd eny query on this score soould be directed to hia.

‘The alove should be coordinated with Diez -Lenz binself sod

end, provided be sgress, he should be pepersd to coarciorate
the stary.

a Tf IRE is queried re the position of tre Departzent.of State,
the reply scould be: 5S informed toe Department of State. If necessary,
At may be edded thee the uspartmort of State mmamunand concurred tint
‘Dies Lens! request should be honored for @ reasonable period to allow
Bim to make etequate crrangements with respect to his residence in the
U.B.

t Ta reply to any further press queries, tne Departaent of State
i and Justice should restrict thexselves to and eite tre substance of
the ancvers given by IS, Kiel. In particular, they should avoid
Sveluating or endorsing his statexents re Cube. ;

—
