# 104-10128-10364

## Page 1

104-10128-10364

SECRET

MAN 20,1956 77

chief, Contrace pardonnel DiPleton

Deputy Director of socarily ayes lgations and Support)

840596 30,

* in.

DO5/185

P. Chief

Chief

Chief

Reference In made to your request dated 20 January

1956 for a Lovert Security Genrance to

perait appointment

of subject to star/ Agent operations officer at Havana, ViDa.

2.. In accordance aith the provisions

set forth in

the Director's Remorandun of I, February 1949 entitled.

"Securfty and Operational Clearances," a covert security

clearance is granted for the covert use of the Subject,

described In your request as set forth in paragraph fl,

above.

This will confirm the Corart Seerity Clearance:

granted telephonically to Mr.

CPD X-3585 on

26 January 1956.

05

Subjeets of covart security clearances are not

to represent themselves as, nor are they to be represented,

a8, employees of CIA.

Your attention is called to the fact that a covert

security clearance does not

-constitute complete compliance

with the provisions of cia regulation 10-210,

Therefore,.

If you should desire at a later date to change the status

or use of this individual,

a request for clearance to cover

any proposed change should be subaltted to this office.

This clearance becomes Invalid in the event the

Subjectts services are not utilised within 60 days of the

date of this nemorandum.

FOR THE DIRECTOR OF SECURITI:

Robert

C

s March 1956

CLOSED:

CHAONS

SECRET

anting an

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Đọ Nọi Repreduce

---

