104-10172-10305

DISPATCH ee
' ON 7" ee
a. 3 Tisai ote en | |

a

See esepeteeaiss are iors eran

Jen igs] |
__ Chief, 1 . H

1. Origory Te. OOLUB cane to Finland as a Vice Cons) in 1955. In late Decenber
1956 he waa promoted to Second Secretary and Chtef of the Cocmular Bect lon, Soviet
Bebaszy. Froa information civen ty several fources, we hare compiled the following
Gescription af COLIR and some background data.

2. Be was torn ebout 1925 in the environs of either Cigasa or Kharkov. Ha
Proodly asserted that he was a Ukrainian, Daring World War IT he was a colonel in
the Soviet Arny, Saw ection in Leninered and Moscow and vas wounded six times, He
elained to be @ child paychologist, Altho:gh be looked like « product of peasant
stock, his conversation implied that he was well-educated and tnowledgeabl> on
eiplomatic affairs, Marxiaa and current events which involve the USSR, Contrarily,
his knowledge of Life cutaide the USSR was meager. Be wae married to Hina Federovna.
Rather sorroxfully be explained that he and his wife would Lite to have ehildrea bat
so far have not been oo blesood. Mia main interest in morte vas skiing, He wae very
jovial, congental snd peened to enjoy playing host. It has boen very chvious that he
always picks up the check xhen he dines with Mesterners = evea if he is not the host,

32, fo ome souroe QOWE atated he had served in Vienna, Wareex, Butapost,
Sucbarest and Sophias while to another he stated that Helsinki was his first foreign
arsignment. It is possible that "UB meant Holeinti vas hie *firet foreign secign-
mant® cutaide tho Soriet Bloo (if bo hed served in Vienna during the occupation), oF
ba could have been daliberately atteapting to confuse, He haa conversed chly in
Rersian-and Finnishy however, he stated that he hed attended the Lancuage Institate,
We mepest that be also knows gare English but xcy feel reluctant to converes in
Bog lian.

a QOUB's predecessor was a known RIS officer, Brobably KUB, We suspect that
COLUR ip now the top KDB officer in Heleinid. Although ve have no cancrete evidence
for thie suspicion, we feel that GOLUB's interest in Westerners generally and in
particularly in his opposite numbers in Western instal?ations in Heleinkt is more then

would be called for by his position.

5. BS 207k, whan shows a newspaper photo of OCD, etated that GOWUB'S Pros was
fecilier. When DS 207k wes told GOLM's nase, Source replied that there was a lisa.
‘enant colonel with this nase in the GB, Source eould not reaeaber the directorate
bes thourht possibly it might have been a technical section. Soures knev that Lt. Cole
COLD was a *fairly high boss." DS POT; could not recall wether he hed ever seen
Lt. Col. GCLIB to know hin oo he did not know If the GOLUB in the newephoto wus
Adentical with the Lt, Col, OOLUS of the MIB,

6. We would appreciate any further information’ on OOLUB whieh aight substantiate
eur mepteions ef his intellivence activities,

7. Ye are to identify positively the H. MAXERY, We have written to |
| wnat and O$+/7 stations fer mare tnforaation cn the RUCZYs tho have been
| | paghined te theoe areas, TOR YOCR IXTOMATI'W OWLYs The description of the N. RACIXY, |
1

bow aseizned to Finland, nore pearly fits thet of Mikalay Oeraetmovich MAXKRY who was
forvwerly eestened as @ TASS sorreapontent ta London froa 1950 to 195} and as Cultured
| Attache to the Soviet Eabasay, Boon frou February 1956 te shout May 1957. In both H
j | Londoa end Ronn he was simpocted of wnyaging ta intellipence dotivities, Ve wald :
arprestate recetving information on the N. MUZEV, now in Moleinkt, which aight help i
us to ldentify hie, :

£2 Pane 1759 FAT RB. CAOCD

Bt meting + -@}
i tay

OE Tans



“ROUTING ANO RECORD SHEET

coments.

COORDINATING OFFICERS

ReTuaay TO o:

TS ©:

Backgrounc Use On
lo Not Reproduce

foccverer sumea

[>

are



DISPATCH - 8 Piet
"Ghtet af Station, [ertaval 16-6 22 - 150156 (0. Ye. Bou)

Chief af Station,’

SpEnEy EEE tpemnceesottences Gee eret seed See eteraereageost 25 7N ido

[an Ortgoety Yo. OOLUS and K. MAXTEY

yp emrce

TL laaass.
1. Orizory Ye. OCLUB cans to Finland as a Vice Cons in 1955,

1956 he was pronoted to Second Secretary and Chief of the Consular

Eebasgy. Froa information given ty seve!

esscription of GOLUB and sone background data,

: 2, Be was torn about 1925 in the envirens ef either
| proadty assorted that he was a Ukrainians Daring World War IT he was @ colonel in
j the Soviet Army, sew action in Leningrad end Moscow and sas wounded six tines, He
@lained te be a child paychologist. Although be looked like a product of peasant
stock, his conversation implied that he was well-educated end knowledgeable on
o aft

Be
dovial, congenial and seened to enjoy playing host. It haa been very chvious that he
abmys picks up the chock when he dines with Westerners = even if he is not the host,

3, fo one source QOLIB stated ho had served in Vienna, Warsaw, Budspest,
Beebarest and Sophia; while to ancther he stated taat Relsinki was his first foreign
aesizment. It is possible that GUS meant Raleint! was hie "first foreign assign
mant® outatda the Soviet Blos (if he had served in Vienna éuring the occupation), or
ba could heave been deliberately attempting to confuse, Ee hes conversed only in
Ressian and Finntchy however, he stated that be had attanded the Language Institate,
We mepect that he aleo knows suee English but may feel reluctant to couveres in

Boglis.

h. GOUIB's predecessor vas a know RIS officer, probably KDB, We suspect that
COLES is now the top KDB officer in Heleinit. Although ve have no cancrete evidence
for this suspicion, wo fel that COLIB's interest in Westerears generally and in
Particularly in his opposite musbera in Western instel?ations in Helsinki 1s more then
would be called for by his position. a

5. DS 207k, whan shown @ newspaper photo of GOLUB, atated that COLUB'S fase was
fexilier, When DS 207) wos told TLD’ nasa, Souree replied that there was a lies.
tenant colonel with this nase in the dtrestarate
bet thoucht possibly it might have been a technical eection, Soures knew that Lt. Cols
COL waa a *fairly high boss." DS 207i, could not recall whether he hid ever seen
Lt. Col. CGLUB to know hin so he did not
Adentical with the Lt, Col. GOLUB of the MB,

6 No vould arpresiate any further inforastion on OG@LOS whieh might substantiate
ear mepteions of hig intelligence aotivitiogs

vel t id i orapw peared rater Yo have written to
e [London) stations fer mere information an the RAKXEVs uho have been
Rtatemed to thees areas. POR YOCR INTOMUTI"W ONLY: The deceription of the N. MAXEZY,
bow aseigned to Finland, nore nearly fits that of Mikaley Gerasinorich MAKKEV tho was
ferwerty assigned as @ TASS sorreapenent’ to Landon froa 1950 to 1953 and ag Cultural
Attecha to the Soviet Eabasey, Boon froa February 1954 to sbout May 1957, In both
London and Ronn he wae sapected of vnveging in intelligence dotivitios, We woald
mrvresiate Toootving information oa the NH. MAXEY, new in Bolainkt, chich eight help
us to identify hig.

2? June 1959 NEC Cara ‘ai® Joyner ram, 2. 6.

sat “
: Le 166
3 -fovtaua\ | b-& : rland 2+

10/68

