# 104-10438-10186

## Page 1

110410438-101861

SECRET

23 August 1976

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT:

Ca11 from

STURGIS

of DCD Concerning Frank

Told

Айто

The information was

given to the DCD Miami office by a contact (not identified

on 23 August who obtained it from Oscar FREELY. FREELY is

writing a book on Frank STURGIS.

2.

STURGIS is to appear on the Tomorrow Show at 2 a.m.

on 24 August, which is to be narrated by Tom Schneider.

STURGIS just recently returned to Miami from taping the show

in New York.

-While in New YOrk STURGIS saw Marita LORENZ and

obtained from her a book which, according to source, appeared

to be cryptographic material and seemed to relate to Albania.

The DCD source saw a "few copies" of what he described as

"mathematical matrix" material.

1.

STURGIS currently (today - 23 August) is attempting

to contact. Senator Baker to turn over the material to him.

DCD plans to ask the source to monitor the situation and advise

whether the material in fact is turned over to Baker.

file

Chris Hopkins

LA/COG/CIOS

201- 242256

STURGIS

That De sell ther

- lea wiez do.

8/23

D00214°

---

## Page 2

13-00000

OPE

DOCUMENT DESCRIPTION (Circle ll appropriate) (90 CHARACTERS)

Go: 0351610-002140 0h

Instructions for Divisions ond Srolfa:

• additional commenta.

DAY MONTH

YEAR

LETTER

23 AUGT6

FROM/ORIGINATOR (30 CHARA TERS)

LA,

lEOG/CIOS

CLASS

ERE LOCATED (10 CHARACTERS)

REFERRED BY (1O OARATINI

SUBJECT (80 CHARACTERS)

TO/RECIPIENT (30 CHARACTERS)

The RecoRD

DDO Y

DO FILE NUMBER (20 CHARACTERS)

201242256

7

Call FRom

FRANK STURGiS

Determinations:

A. Release in full text

B. Release in sanitized form.

c. beny in toto

D.

Defer decision to (Specify in line 8)

H. Coordinate with (Specify in line 8)

DEFER DECISION TO 110 CHARAGTESES COORDINATE WITH (10 CHARACTERS) CLAYS

OF DOD CONCeRNiNG

DAY MONTH

YEAF

TYPE

OF

REVIEW

1 A

DATE

OF

REVIEW

E.

Sustain initial denial in toto

F. Sustain initial release of

of sanitized version

G. Release additional information

SIGNATURE

REWIEWING OFFICER

EXEMPTIONS AND PROVISIONS CL

140 CHARACTERS)

9

FOIA

B1 B2 B3 B4 B5 B6 BYC

PA

E.O. 12356

B JI J!

Exemptions and Provisions claimed to protect the following:

10

1. Classification

Intoration from alson with a Foreign Government

3. Informision pertaining to a liaison

relationship with a foreign Government

4. Information which would/could identify

the

source

5. Information pertaining to a source

6. Information pertaining to intelligence methods

7. Location of CIA overseas installation

8. Location

of unacknowledged domestic

installation

9. Name

of CIA employee

10. File number

11. Pseudonyu

12.1

Cryptonym

13. Internal organizational data

14. Name

of an FBI agent

15. FBI. Fle number

16. Privacy of other individual

17.. Does not pertain to reguest

19. Other (Specify in line 11)

FOLA

(b) (1)

(b) (3)

(b) (3)

(5) (35

PA

(3) (1)

(j) (1)

(b) (3)

(b) (3)

(b) (3)

(b) (3)

(3) (4)

(j) (1)

(j) (1)

(j) (2)

(3) (3)

(b) (3)

(b) (3)

(b)

(3)

( (1)

(3) (1)

(1)

(j) (1)

(b)

(3)

(3) (7) (0) (3)(2)

(3) (2)

(5) (1)

(5) (6)

(b

-

REMARKS IF OTHER WAS CHECKED ABOVE) 110 CHARACTERS)

sh made tas andeser madeli

REMARKS 1160 CH

CTERS)

HSCA BoX

16

11

12

13

14

his Fam In Unelessited Unlous The Clossification is C

nd The Infomation belem la completes

CL BY:

DECL OADR

DRV FROM:

---

