# 104-10300-10198

## Page 1

104-10300-10198

SPERET

29 October 1975

MIMORANDUM FOR: Deputy Chief, Security Analysis Group

SUB.JECT

Documents Relating to the Kennedy

Assassination.

l. In response to your request, the undersigned and

reviewed the eighteen

volumes of

covert security file #262 622 relating to the

custodial

handling of Yuriy Nosenko.

In addition to the eighteen

volumes, various unnumbered files relating to site plans

for the

various safe sites used in this case and adminis-

trative files relating to expenses incurred and other .

miscellancous items were also revicwed.

2. As a result of these reviews, the attached documents

were located which make mention of Nosenko's being debricfed

concerning Lee Harvey Oswald.

Additionally, a memorandum

dated 11 March 1964 from the District Field Office (DFO) was

also located which gives a summary of information which

Nosenko provided

chi saro pers

to DFO personnel during casual conversation.

One of the items in this memorandum is the lengthy discussion

of Nosenko's knowledge of Oswald.

raymond M. Reardo

Security Analysis Group

Atts

Document Number

1355-1061

for FOlA Review on

MAR 1977

EZ IMPDET

CL BY 063994

SEGRET

---

## Page 2

13-00000

SECRET

27 July 1964 Report

No visitors to the site over the weekend. Subject has been avidly

writing and reading, smoking about a pack of cigarettes per day. All.

custodial procedures routine.

on 27 July 1964, case officer RYAN interviewed Subject from 1330

to 1830 hours, discussing OSWALD case.

Cubject had written on many

sheets d paper, mostly answers to questions put to him by the case

officers.

RYAN advised that one of these papers was a lengthy?" lutter

from Subject to Pete (BAGLEY), although the contents were not known

to RYAN yet.

Subject was given a book entitled,

terday.

No visitors are expected on 28 July, although it is anticipated

that both the Doctor and RYAN will come to the site tomorrow (29 July).

Subject is in good spirits.

Custodial procedures are normal and routine.

At the request of OS/LOG, Tom RYAN vas requested to initiate action

with SR/DOB to provide some relief for the cook.

Emma has been working

a 6 day week since early April with Ed SANNER's wife filling in the

seventh day. RYAN was requested to obtain the services of a cook and

a helper to work at least 2 days a week and no more than 3 days.

RYAN

will advise.

29 July 1964 Report

No visitors to site on 28 July. Subject given bath in evening.

All site custodial procedures routine.

30 July 1964 Report

on 29 July the Doctor visited Subject from 2025 to 1115 hours

He pronounced Subject to be in good condition, although Subject still

claims we are taking pictures of him.

The Doctor recommended no

changes in routine.

SECRET

---

## Page 3

13-00000

SECRET

30 July 1964 Report

Case Officer RYAN interrogated Subject from 1530 to 1800 hours,

the method (s

by which private citizens in USSR get firearms and

29 July: The discussion concerned the OSWALD cas training and they

talked about some Americans recruited

in Paris for the KGB.

All custodial procedures routine and normal.

31 July 1964 Report

On 30 July 1904, all custodial procedures were routine and normal.

Case officer is expected to come to the site on 31 July 1964.

3 August 1964 Report

On 31 July 1964 case officer RYAN interrogated Subject from 1400

to 1600 hours.

They discussed "Intourist"

, KGB personalities, USSR

war plans and KGB activities during the "Cuban Crisis". Subject sill:

believes we are taking pictures of him.

At 2015 Subject came to the door of his room, said he wanted to

talk. In effect, he wanted to get something off his chest. He said

he could talk because he knew the cameras and recorders were not

operative at that hour. He launched into a monologue about his mother,

father, sister, brother and uncle.

Became very emotional; saying that

he was misunderstood, that he really wants to remain in the US.

Spoke

of his KGB work, recruitment and techniques. Finally at 0045 hours,

1 August, he went to bed.

Remainder of 1 August was uneventful. Sunday 2 August also quiet.

All custodial procedures routine.

SECRET

---

## Page 4

13-00000

SECRET

#262 622

5 August 1964

Week of 27 - 31 July 1964.

Interrogation on 27 July 1964 ran from 1334 to 1828 hours.

With

the exception of social amenities and a review of the notes SUBJECT had

made since his last interview with the Case Officer;

¿ the interrogation

consisted of a review of the OSWALD case.

It was based on a verbatim

transcript the Case Officer had typed from the 3 July 1964 tape. The

Case Officer (Thomas RYAN) questioned SUBJECT on why KGB did not do

certain things such as: run an investigation of OSWALD, check into his

an a tree ton of ca

Marine experience, etc.

On 29 July 1964 (a.m.) the doctor made his weekly examination of

the SUBJECT.

SUBJECT gave a brief run-down of his personal life before

his father died in 1958, said he was being kept in confinement because

he is trying to help us and said we are still taking pictures of him but

the clicking has become quieter.

On 29 July 1964 interrogation ran from 1530 hours to 1802 hours.

OSWALD case was discussed again and the Case Officer started a

discussion on how people obtain and keep guns in their homes in Russia.

He also wanted to reconcile the fact that SUBJECT at one time stated

OSWALD was a poor shot but on another occasion said he was a good marksman.

The Case Officer then went into a discussion of a Paris based, American,

U. S. Government employee who was recruited by the KGB. This individual was

still in Paris in January 1964. He would make documents available to KGB so

they could be photographed and returned to the vault on the sane day.

SUBJECI had no identifying data on this American. The discussion concerned

the American's contacts, station location, travel routes, etc.

131 July 1964 interrogation started at 1116 hours. Questions and

discussion concerned

the Intourist Organization and the extent to which

it serves as a cover for KGB people, KGB war emergency plans, and the

extent to which these plans were activated at the time of the U. 'S./ Cuban

Crisis®

ne last item discussed was the ODESSA case. LODESSA is the code nam

or an agent named CUPPA who was scheduled to go to lokyo in April 1904

Interrogation concluded at 1824 hours.

JUB: jms

SECRET

- 1-

---

## Page 5

13-00000

SECRET

6 July 1964 Report

On 2 July Mesrs. NOBLE, WESTRELL and BENNETT visited the site.

The present air conditioning situation is satisfactory. Mr. MCMAHON

arrived at

noon in & "panic.", had to speak to subject immediately and

did so until 1345 hours, discussion

(phonetic) and his family. While MCMAHON was there SR Division

called and pressed the matter even harder. McMAHON then returned to

Headquarters and

came back to the site again at about 1645 hours. He

expects to remain about hours.

On 3 July an interrogation of Subject by RYAN look place from

1230 to 1530 hours. Discussion dealt with the swal case.

On 4-5 July all custodial precedures were routine. Subject did

try to "bum" a cigarette from a DFO man (Subject is getting smokes

during interrogation sessions).

Division doesn't plan to visit Subject on 6 July according to

latest reports.

8 July 1964 Report

No visitors at the site on 7 July. Subject ate all meals, was

given a bath in the evening.

All custodial procedures normal anc

routine.

13 July 1964 Report

Custodial procedures were routine during the weekend of 11-12 July.

14 July 1904 Report

On 13 Jily Case Officer |

interrogated the Subject from

1530 hours to 1720 hours (subjects." of discussion urknown). All

custodial procedures routine and normal.

No case officer visits to the site are expected today.

SECRET

---

## Page 6

13-00000

SECRET

#262 622

The Case Officer then started discussing the case of a Bulgarian,

who was arrested by the Bulgarians in Moscow in 1963. SUBJECT

obtained his information on this case from SHERAPIN and Alexander PAPOVICH

in 1963.

SUBJECT said

Iwas invited to Moscow in 1963 at the suggestion

of the Bulgarian MVD.

settled in the Metropole Hotel and kept

under TV surveillance.

While he was in Moscow his rooms in Bulgari

were searched and evidence was found (radio) which was sufficient for

the Deputy Chief of the Bulgarian MVD to go to Moscow, arrest him and

return him to Bulgaria for questioning and trial or court martial.

SUBJECT went to Bulgaria in 1961 to help them on American cases.

He stated there was no suspicion of

Jat that time. [

had worked in the United States and was believed to have been recruited

at that time.

The Bulgarians,

said,

on confronting

you're under arrest"

in the Metropole Hotel,

At this point the interview ended and SUBJECT asked the Case Officer

to congratulate the boys and wish them all a good holiday for him. He

did this when the Case Officer said he did not think he would be back

on 3 July.

Exiday -3 July 196t - The Case Officer wanted to discuss the KGB

involvement in the OSWALD case.

• SUBJECT said he did not know that. OSWALD went to Moscow from Helsinki

but that OSWALD's visa application was processed in the normal manner

and KGB had a copy of the visa application.

Russian Imbassies, since

1960, have authority to issue visas in three to five days after application.

OSWALD applied orally, and later in writing, for Soviet citizenship.

A copy of the written request went to KGB. A copy of this request was

sent to the Supreme Soviet after OSWALD slashed his wrists.

KGB studied reports on OSWALD prepared by Case Officer KRUZNOF and

decided OSWALD was not normal so he was of no interest to KGB and vas

not considered desirable for Soviet citizenship.

His file was

sent to

Minsk because he was to live and work in Minsk.

SECRET

-6-

---

## Page 7

13-00000

SECRET

#262 622

The American Embassy was not informed of his suicide attempt because

he was going to leave the country and he was not an important person:

While: OSWALD was in Minsk he received a stipend from the Red Cross.

KGB had information on Marina OSWALD only after she announced her

intention to marry him. A record check, neighborhood,

and employment

check on her showed that she was a simple, normal, not clever person,

and she was not in the Young Comnunist League because she did not pay

her dues.

Some Investigative reports said she was stupid..

KGB. did not consider using her in any capacity:

She has an uncle who is a Lieutenant Colonel in the Minsk militia.

She must be illegitimate because she does not use or know her father's :

name.

The only surveillance ever put on OSWALD was an agent and there was

never any on Marina.

After their marriage her pay was increased to impress the foreigner

she married.

She was not asked to stay in Russia after marriage because he was.

to leave and Russians believe a husband and wife should be together

(unless one is a high level person) .

Neither of the OSWALDs, got any briefing or instructions before

leaving Moscow.

In addition to KRUZNOF and the SUBJUCT, LUBAS and MUSHKOV were

the KGB Agents in Moscow who knew of the OSWALD case before the

assassination. A Department Chief, JOMIKOV, and live other KGB Case

Officers knew of the case after the aisassination.

KGB considered OSWALD an Anerican citizen because he had been

denied Soviet citizenship.

KGB did not know any of OSWALD's personal contacts in Russia.

Some of the Intourist people OSWALD dealt with were KGB Agents

or contacts.

SECRET

-7-

---

## Page 8

13-00000

SECRET

#262. 622

OSWALD's case was not the same as other Americans in Russia because

he was considered not normal and he was not considered a defector as.

were MARTIN and MITCHELL..

SUBJECT heard that OSWALD applied in Mexico for return to Russia.

Word went from Mexico to the First Main Directorate; to the Second Main

Directorate. : Second Main Directorate told First Main Directorate that

he had tried suicide in Russia, married a Soviet citizen, departed Russia

and was considered not normal so the request should be rejected.

SUBJECT was then shown some photographs and he said he had seen a

picture of Marina OSWALD in a magazine.

A long list of names was read and shown to SUBJECT but he failed

to identify any of them.

Many of the names were of people in Minsk.

JUB: jms

SECRET

---

