# 104-10210-10153

## Page 1

_104-10210-10153

/ 048

SECRET

FRP :

STAFF

CO:F: C/LL-8

INFO: ODPD-D, VR, FILE, C/CCS, C/CI•H, c/EPS/EG»2,

CREUROO, CHIADIIE, CALAD/DO, CAINTAFLA CHOGOMS, CAPCS, CAPES/PGL, CAPH,

OLCA (3110)

79 1544033

PAGE

001

TOT: 0922562 NOV 78

DIRECTOR 324426

SECRET

STAFF 092255Z DIRECTOR 324426

PRICAITY

INFO MEXICO CITY•

RYBAT AKULE KDAFGHAN

REFS:

01913 1541466

D .

APPRECIATE REF A

FO?

RE

PARA ONE, THERE ARE NO PARENT COMPANY

STATIO

TO CONTACT KD:FGHANI (K=J)

1& VIEN OF REF

4, BELIEVE DECISION

WHETHER KE

SHOULD

BIJRID DIRECTOR

BERLITZ OF HSCA REGUEST IS ONE BEST LEFT TO

DISCRETIE: OF Á=1.

IN ORDER TO ASSIST KEL IN MAKING HIS DECISION;

REQUEST

INFORM K-I OF THE OVERSE REACTION TO THE PUELICITY

CREATOR ROL REPORTED REE SAND DOTALE RIS VEERS CRASIATION

MAY KISM

RESUR? KE THET TO AVOID

ANY FURTHES PUSLICITY CITE HAS OPTED

FOR INTERVIEN TO BE CONDUCTED IN U.S.

RATHER THAN IN EUROPE.

PLEASE

SOVISE -ES REACTION AND ALSO IF HE ANTICIPATES WHETHER HE FORESEES

ANY PROSLIM IN TAKING LEAVE.

RE PARA 2 OF REF A, BELIEVE IT

BETTER

STATION CAN INDUCE KOS TO COME TO

STATES FO? INTERVIEN

ASSURE K-1 THAT USG WILL PAY ALL EXPENSES

INCURRED.

IF K=1 RECEPTIVE TO TRAVEL TC U.S., PLS OSTLIN MIS VIENS

O: TIMING OF TRIP.

IF K/I BALKS AT HOLDING MEETING IN U.SDA

MILL EXPLORE WITH

HSCA POSSIBILITY. OF NEETING ELSEWHERE IN EUROPE,

3.

HOS RECORDS FAIL REFLECT KOL'S PRESENT CITIZENSHIP. WOULD

PPRECIATE IF

OR YOUR SACKGROUNI

CAN CLARIFY THIS POINT HITM KOLO

•I"FORMATION I

16898 (28 JULY 1972) REPORTED THAT STATION PLANNED

HAVE THE KDAFGHANS APPLY FOR CITIZENSHIP AFTER ARRIVAL ON CUBAN

SECRET

---

## Page 2

SECRET

STAFF

78 1544033

PAGE 002

TOT: 0922502 NOY 78

DIPECTOR 324626

PASSPORT.

APPLY FOR L

FURTHER THAT ACCORDING TOIL

E LATINS ARE ABLE TO

117219 611 SEPT 197220 STATION REPORTED THAT

Kao!

CONTACTED !

ITE ON II SEPTEMBER TO EXPLAIN RESCH FEE

BUNTIL HIS SPAMISH RESIDENCE ESTADLIS-EDA

"MICH WOULD BE APPZOXIMATELY THREE MONTHS AFTER MIS ARRIVAL IN SPI

OST RECENT INFORSTLON IN MOS FILES ON KIOS CIT-LENSMIT IS

18039 15 JANUARY 1975) TiMICH REPORTED THAT

strath Has or 11

JFINION THAT THERE GAS NO PROSLEM IN DOCUMENTÜIO KEL AS "STATELESS"

IN. THE BASIS HE

"LOST" HIS GET DOCUMENTS, AND TWAT KEL SHOULD

REPORT TO THE

4, PLEASE KEEP HOS AND MEXICO CITY ADVISED YOUR CONTICT WITH

5.

ORIG:

FILE: 201-0288248,

E2 IMPDET.»

AC/LAIMGSB (LEHMAN

X-1222, GREY

3-820388 COORD: PES/POL

(SHEPANER; OLE (PCANSCAS(BRECKINRIDGE)Y DEALINR

E/S ANAPE LAISTE LINEO: AUTH: CILAD INARPEND; RELE

DC/EUR/M

AT CL BY 007255.4

END OF MESSAGE

SECRET

2033

---

