104-10173-10077|

net

ASP.

LTCH

ab
[87 dated 2h August 1961 ¥ Ftp
; : “by: he
— 1, attschod horedth 43 Ar! : Apa soa Oy
ie with Kewing on 27 Aucvat 1961. “Tho purpose of this contact was to dotarmine | hy og?
C kei? R 73 current relationship with the RIS, ascertain future plaas, and H
i debrief hin about his friend Willisn Steiusnith, an Anericzn who lives in

Cepentagsn A2lecally, and who fas written several pro—actzo articles for
Rocal nowspapors. lo is also kno to maintain a contact since February 1961
with tho Local Cuban legation officer Gabriol Califora,

2, Wo have asked Awe re aycuiun’? Steinzaith, determina the
reason for his living hore illegally (mthout residence pernit) ard obtain as
much additional date 09 possible wbout hie courca ef incows, activities, amt
contacts heres

3e Wo will keep Hoodquarters nivised ef Miture devolomnonts. This caso
has been discussed with. 77 FBC. represontativo froa
Ionion, who suggested that Hozdquartars coortinate this case with crs! in
Washington.

SEE teriagatlt mediate a

he Forwarded unter separate cover are copies of xyvzi2's consular filo
Ainclading docunants concerning his newly acquired wife.

Attachnents:
A. Contact Report, hAr

ie RY ‘ator MIcROrs S
B. Copies of Consular file on paume w/s/o SO ats ob 0"
7 on @
j Distributions :
: 2 = WS w/atts Ay B, u/s/o 7

H 2S x,
. 2 = Os, w/att Ae

T= :

es = 03 car Deh pe
— penne tt

<p ae


Meet C 4 Oe yy) So 22 Zao?

Sf OU OP RPL TORTMOD OF BT EROS O43 64 apa taag Ov
Lot £33 MO Byes tot £39 tos faq M7 BL>Te

: > aeRAAr or Pa OT

PRACT OT POVTATA P TL ey Gor

PMO Ko
Bree Of. OTT L

wo Aue

etd TTA peE ce

BOTY en

Pq “tponep eet
eu ce mata

eware yorme; £9 Suyroaurysaoy aniog

eases Ot TFA Koy, exayAjes TAKA,

SOF VENPERT IE uu Gepe quan ©

SUTATY NO quae goer omy hye,

pure uoTyA Bars4e9°O09 5

. QUOsIM SFY PEELE QUMY BqAs

PETE OD TTES OY ENE UTCHIAD got TITES OT
+ TUEe FTesmpy PAT azuor
aréneo os Muriniyieg our AT (o

ey no aay
atorp ym painty

aE
eo) ewressui azey3 to,
gues tones ey yyy
(SOR LOGE WAS OFY SST (6

VOSTM AS aFTIs LOPuT ay Pope EID LT
9d OITA UT (aTz2 DIS Fo eyas ¢
Gy popa-uny weed 2

enty O€ZE THUR pereaz
1 O72 8B AuypoaT yoy ore

STYD OATPESAE TUF

a wel uur
QW ACY DIN

. ,
woe cy ote par

pa



freee Bon ee goa Se at

~

se oe wee i The Interest in STF

“rn Anertesn efttzon 7

wag told that he cusuld
‘ont ke proniced to

vat TO OWEE

10 kawrrty VALOR 5. “23,49 a rative

rents resida in Pyonx,tut tieiradiress is not

h@o Oda ankady sare nnd bat cloule

ne ehacctorye
sgatbly at zhe
ta ue'tor stu

of Ler ios.

TM wa with hin irl
w is Gviinitoly not revistored there
9 ta] ROWING OLOs Letom that the

fea te vawicn S1OR S01 lense da Seanddaavion
in cus to nie onedso ty bo with ldo cdglerriond. ihe Jateer
acuntytut Lives gle: in the uAywhere po
vhon che cecora ted’ (but
ntes,l) years old,
doce rot Inew muy
tlw dyan ciardean eftizeas Talla
wlivvadly to otudy clothes
y to BkLort any -schood
end t0 Louthe 44 one

oy Mocod U.rough w yrticular

pa thea dueli:

iad perk

ioe not}
hin this]
pieture o.

saute etd not ero
rot in tho be -imimy: it
a trisrd ofa rricztt,
articles on Cha

a xeoult of

ly te llerend, in
center’

wets. a
vdnows orks thet reter 42
ao sort of elers ort

ergs wr ‘ie a



cae DEORE erm 2008 de Bas DP

| cenunmap gn enna erent atnrnds srmmanensrn

a

rot traveled extcusively and
an olivcoula) and

Sea task tas rover

4 crother

d

Mint
wat iin aint and Keown ir-lish,
2 Sararens gate Mraelg wee iniredzecd

scortint ta awk, io
ricenybut haa coca resexvctians

cubr eervices cor Cals

gota my Bo ape Cl ~

ritzition do sexy poore Sha caly mterinl cuaruntoe he tae ts on

co Sror ble Teronte that thoy vall pay his passage beck to a
a

S7°TD'T TTT plans to retum to the
will prota-ly ¢0 to Sex York.
covlins to jwene sho 4 arare of the fact that SET
A yulvice permit, the ealy Inera,
te

ey to ts with hia tint
TR told Kaew that si :
tos protty socn,it id 1s really ratter wlether tet bea ‘
or Ind not & resicence pornite In co: Viewdevis rare 5. :
represented his illeral resicence 29 4 cose of peraoml perlicecce ‘and
indolence and a9 jurely connected with personal meeons.

3) Surartsing ‘40 soneriat Arrresstonistio data on
fy xmgretated that he © to bo
ot neceumrily Commins On vee: or banty

38 pee

AGA decwosed SVT Tht fairly trankly ens ett
vivttle pened) weorvatio o,but he ovvioucty did uot provide



fnd tote relatrernnin, In all

pores 39 rureraly ts not a very

+ 10 concontrate on ti torte ath:
tow or, oz)

cou ine
attoning conser
Fy ee NOt tees to hive any
Ap with “SH and at tp

: Kase 0 boll? of
imo niy contuctes

>) stwnnte fin: “atuo Irma not boon elurtriod ec re toly,
Us Hs eirber Ye Le M COR ctacn rith Kieren
vr coun not seen to Tie
stLur! o bucinega, tho J utter
vtainly not a FealtLy rin, but ke tas

Ge Final tnitmetionss

8) KAwERA oked for instructions rar the evant of a con:
2 Souviste ped uo told that 12 euch o ets end o 3
y <7er {tho United vtetes,ho ont Lava to ¢
diveuiatelys :

Arthur J.

