# 104-10298-10258

## Page 1

104-10298-10258

SECRET

SENSITIVE

2 JUL 1562

MEMORANDUM FOR: Brigadler General E. @ Lanodalo

SUBJECT

: OPERATION MONGOOSE--Pv. Arnaldo

ICLESLAS Rivero, US 10167. 196

1. DI. JOJo MIRO Cordone has recairod from Subjoct a

request to obrain ble discharge from the U.S Arniy and haa asked

un so pass the ragural lo the prope: suthorilos.

Thie Information

la forwarded for whalever action you deen appropriate.

Subjoce lo a Cuban oxilo, 84 yoare old, who entered

service at Fort Brooke, Fuerto Rico, on 6 February 1962. Ho

comuleted his baoic tratning at Fore Jackson, S. C. on 14 April

1966, and lo now abelgned to Company C. Jrd Engincora Rogl

ment, at Fort Jackoon, According lo Subjoce, he la acheduled for

tranaler to Germany, Subject stated that he Jolned the U. S. Army

to help liberato Cube, not for service in Gormany, and therefore

wants his diochargo.

3. Our illes contala no additional information on Subjaci.

". Tho above roquest appears to be anotber examplo of the

need for clarification of the U. S. Army entletmont program for

Cabana, particularly as 10 the liabilisy of Cuban enlistees for service

ounide the United states.

SIGNED

WILLiANK. HARVEY

DDP/TFW/ Asst. Exec

Distribution:

Orig. & 1 - Addressee

1 - C/TFW

8 - TFW/PA-Prop

1 • TFW/Exec

bb (6 July. 1962)

SECRET

SENSITIVE

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECRET

• SUNSIVE

MEMORANDUM FOR: Brigadler General E. C Lanadale

SUBJECT

: OPERATION MONGCOSE--PY. Arnaldo

IGLESLAS Rivero, US $e. 16%, 196

1. Dr. Jose MiRG Cardona has recelved from Suuject a

soyuess 10 obiala ble discharge fron the U. S Arry and has soked

un to pado the requealia the proper authoriidea. Ihle informalon

Is forwarded for whalover action you deer appropriate.

Subject lo a Cuban exile, 24 years old, who entered

scruice al fort Brooke, Fuerto Rico, on 6 February 1962. He

completod bie bauic trainlag at Fort Jackson, S. C.. on 14 April

1966, and la now anolgned to Company C, Ird Engisoers Raglo

ment, al Fort Jackson, According to Subjeci, he la acheduled for

tranafor to Germany, Sabject stated that ho jolned the U. S. Army

lo halp liberalo Cuba, nol for service in Germany, and therefore

wants his discharge.

3. Our files contala no additional information on Subject.

The above roquest appeara to be another example of sho

need for clarification o. the U, 5. Army entiatment program 10r

Cubana, particularly as to the liability of Cuban enlisreds for dervice

outaldo the United States.

SIGNED

WiLLiAN& HARVEY

DDP/T FW/ Aast. Exech

Distribution:

Orig. & l - Addressee

1 - C/TFW

1 - IFW/PA-Prop

1 - TFW/ Exec

bh (6 July. 1962)

SECRET

SENSITIVE

---

