od 5H :

i ae Vocational Rehaviltcation
! State of Florida
: July 8, 1964

HERNANDEZ, Raul

PSYCHOLOGICAL, TICT

oa

This subject hag beon soon three times at tan Psycholozical Servico
Center. On April 9, 1954, wa had a long interview with hig in waich
he explained the higtory of his sofzures, On Juno 11, 1954, he
xecoived tho TAT and a Freo Asaociation Test, using a list of vords
Z that was ocpecially prepared for him. Cn that date, he promised

- to coma back to bring a list that he had made of all his soizures
i,  , ginee September 1942 up to the presant time, with an indication of
the emotional problems that he had on the days ho waco cicke This
list was brought, by him, to our office on Juno 30, 1964. ‘

Reason for Consultation i

To try to determine if thore wore any Aditi factors influ-
encing this subject's epileptic eeizurod.

steel + Results of Paycholo» seal, [nvecti pation

In a caso such as this, it ia obvious that orzanic factors are tho
t main determinant of the pationt'a disare, but from the interview
and tho tests, wo received the impression that the patient's eaotion:
al state has often played a cortain role in trizzoring his eptleptic
saizuras. Paychothorapoutia treatmant that would enable this pa= ores
tient to gain better control of his emotions would obviously ba highs
ly beneficial for him,

ae

.Intollicenea

This subject was not formally tested in order to datermine his LeQey
tut from hia conversation and from his responses to the personality
tosts, it fs quite clear that he is a man endowed with a superior
intelligence, althousn soma impairment has necegoarily resulted bo-
cause of his frequent epileptic seizures, end, recently, because of
his brain surgery. Ho waa not tested for intellinence beccusa ir was
-not feasible to do so sinco his operation had been dono just a few
weeks ago and the poacibility of some transicnt effects of the sure
gical procedure might still influence any results, However, from a
strictly clinical viewpoint, when comparing tho subject's reaction
before and after tae oporation, tho amount of impairment produced

» by the oparation does not scom to bo really considerablo, and, on the
other hand, there is a remaxkable docreaso in his anxietye



=? : : July 8 1954.

+. Byesntes
xenites

whe. When this patient was 12 ycara old, the nea aL noswas that ha
: Red becn Aaving for years beqene avert eutt

. OR, Grpivelens feelines et:
ae os, SHE was Lovin ad kind to-him, but at tho sexe tine doz
a Overeprotectives The fLirst opileptie scizuro of tho patient. took

' Whea tho subject vas 16 years old, :he started treatment which was

+. Successful for elovon yoara. Unfortunatoly, when ho was 27 years ol

+» at a timo that ho wes -fighring against Baciseals dictatorship, he wai
Adentified as a conspirator.and:ecnt to Jail. Thero he was beaten
by tho police or guards ina really savage way and this was the bee

«' gdnaing of q now stage in his Life An which he froquontly suffered

E froma opileptic coicuras. It 19 Amportant to point out that thia bee

gan when tho pationt was. the object of an unjust aggrossion by. auth»

rity fisuroa. a

Among tho most importayd psychological conflicts of the ‘pationt at

the ‘presont tima, ve notice the followd: Bt :

Gog

.@) . The ceparation from hia Parents. It 1s obvious that the

2 . Sudject has. otiLl strong embivaient foolings toward his

- parents qnd aspectally tovard his mother. “He hates her

- OVor=protectivenogs: and domineering attitudes, but at tho
camo time, he feols aad about. tho soparation from hia fanilye

\

b) Tho idea of boing Limited’in life because of his epilepsy.
This problem waa very. doeply folt by the patient since he
++, 7. Was @ child, because at that timo hia mother used to restrain
:. “him froa having a normal boy's Life duo to tha selcures. Ifa’
+ Wao considéréd as a boy with:a very bad temper and "seen
conetizes by hie neishbors as somo cort of a Gevil", This
: ‘"s. . . Means that’ the patient daveloped very strony aggressive tone
dencios as a reaction to thie frustration, At Present the
ea : patient fools that there are many goals in life that he will
inci Naver bo ablo to radch because of hia discase. For instance,
HE .. Concerning a profession and « cuperior education. f

¢) The ‘paticnt has had some failures in. love which woro very

- Exustrating for him. He haa never boon formally engaged and
whon he approaches a girl he always has in mind tha 4dea that
ho cannot fool woll with @ woman that would pity him for his

. digeas :

rneerins and

place after on arguoment with hia mothor wio threatened to scold Aims

dy:
8



—_—
'

4)

' :
: @)

>

t fae sceeG)

1
* SIbixb

7

oO aa °

HERUANDEZ, Roul <3 July 6, 1954

"For several montha tha patient hoch’ ad a cowon-Lay wifo, here

in Miami, but it aaema that ha haa nevor been docply Ln Love
with her. It 4a rathor a mttar of sex and compantonshipes

‘Novortholega, ho often arguda with her because che io a domle

neering person, vho "wanta to bo a mothor for him", Sono of
tho paticnt's recont epilaptic seizures took place aftor an

“arguement with here

Tho political situation in Cuba fs another source of cuffore
ins for the patiant, ac it 10 for all Cuban oxilos. It is,
however, important to note that tho patient's reactions to
Batiata and Castro’ dictatorshins wero not only tho rooult
of his patriotic feclinga, but also tho expression of his
doeply rooted aggresaivonera againat all forma of unjust

or unreasonable authoritarian behavior.

Gre D Toa ogo
: Joao I. Lacaga, Ph.D.
Clinteal Psychologist ;
PSYCHOLOGICAL SERVIGE CENTER :

