# 104-10186-10200

## Page 1

104-10186-10200

INFORMATION

MATION

REPORTE

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

Thie material containa latvensica alecling the Naulonel Detense of the Unlted States mitain the meanine of the ladlonade bawa thee

18 DAC SNA WU And M the unnamina dr serelation of which ln dot manner to an unauthoriend person la prohibited by lam.

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY Cuba

SUBJECT "Ulises Delmar" (an allas)

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Noi Reproduce

REPORT NO.

CS CI-316/00601-65

DATE DISTR.

9 February 1965

NO. PAGES

1

REFERENCES

CS-311/00115-64

(page 7) 8 July 1964

DATE OF 1964

INFO.

PLACE &

Washington, D. C.

DATE ACQ.. January 1965

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION, SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE, APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE: A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Service until April 1968.

Headquarters Comments

The following report is one of a series containing personality

information

provided by the source

and includes supplementa.

nformation from the records of this Agency

It Is requested that the addressees take no action on any of the

individuals

mentioned in the personality reports without first

checking with this Agency.

"Ulises Delmar," who also uses the alias "Ulises," is a

specialist in South American illegal operations in the Direccior

General de Inteligencia (Gencral Directorate of Intelligence -

DGI).. Sometime prior to 1962 he served in Chile, but because

of a personal quarrel with "Juan Carlos," an attache at the

cuban Embassy in Chile, he had to return to Cuba.

2.

"Ulises Delmar" was born between 1935 and 1940.

He Is

about live feet ten inches tall, weighs about 115 pounds, and

has a slender build. He is a negro..

Headquarters Comment

1.

The repords of this Agency reveal no additional identiflable

information on "Ulises Delmar.

5

3

2

4/70

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

Pasturend Prouds

STATE

DIA

ARMY

REPL CINCLAST

NAVY

• CINCSO #

AIR

I&NS

_INSA

1 XXX

I OCR

FBY 2

(Note: fiold distribution Indicated by "=")

INFORMAMON-REPORTA

WINCORN ATrONTREPORT

II CI/LIA

UH/ SALMOB

I CLINSA

15-2

HADLAY

LIEZ

LIASHI

ALX 1835; LX 235%

NO. PROJECT (1:11UG1)

.CSCI-216/00800-55

WH/SAiCI

WIL/HAVE

TOTALA MH/SA 8 (1), WE 1 (2), CIA, RID 1

COOROMATIMO RELEARNE

LIAISON *

BLS:LD: SUK

CH/REA

19-5-1

• 0P8

---

