# 104-10186-10391

## Page 1

104-10186-10391

ISPAICE

SACRIT

"E JON QU

Chief of Fiste

tilation

Chick of Station,

düi.:

LAN INFUE INCH AIT

Tri.

15-2

DOC. MICRO. SER

Oporational/ ANon

Leoniest for Transon Manuel Me as pundies

ESTE Perez and for Teport on the Cuban Intulligence rvicowON&la

241

15-7

During

WHo recent trip to

the cos request

Johlowing itons fron lendquarters:

Traces on fnu ESTEVEZ Pero% (identifled as the

Cliban Consul Gencral,

Carcolonn):

loadquartors rcvoals

that this is lanucl ESTEVEZ Porez (201-333002)

fornorly

rirst secretari

as tho Cuban Enbassy in' ladrid fron 1062

to 1963:

lic is n174 on tho Cuban watchiist.

Othor:

Information arailable at Headquarters follows.

DP03: 10 November 1922g Cuba

WIFE: Slia HERNANDEZ LeOn

rasspurt #'s:

Ieportod as D/G0/515 and D/62/386

Education: Poorly educated and uncultured

Background: Reported to be an activo membor of

the Cuban Concunist Party.

has worked as 2 movio

extra and apparently belonged to the Cuban Artists

Association.

Activities from 1900 to 1963 aro

1960.- Reported to ho goinis to Mexico on a

propaganin sission.

August 1960 was reported to be

Ist Sccretary at tho. Cuban Embassy, Propue.

this sane tour of duty lc served as a diplomatic courier

betreon Pragua and Cologno and as a special couricr

for Cubar -issions in lostorn Europo.

Ile has been

reported to be the "strong san" at the Cuban Erlassy

rathor than the Ambassador.

1963 - First Secretary, Cuban Embassy, Madrid.

Responsible for political and propaganda matters and

Communist. Party contacts, for caiting the Enbassy

nesspaper Boletin, and apparently was also responsible

Travollod as Diplonat in July 1902

fron france to Spain (IN 33884, JUly 1902).

CROSS REFERENCE 10

DISPATEN SYAIBOL AND NUMBER

/ DATE I-

i. e

-8. =201-303002-

HES TILE PURELA

SECRET

19 - 6 - 102/3

110151

- 21 June 1965 5610

1

1

RID

201-333002

H1L/C/ESKC

WE/ 5/S

Wh/Registry

LUI CHI

Mi Co

12. 5

-MADIS

22

6/8R

---

## Page 2

12).

kin• lado a trip to enssels

and iris,

leaving irid on 22 karel aid reirain: on the

issured the

tics ot consul at the Cuban Corsinto 1: bricelona,

Pieceiro a lucumber 19or.

Tribitica

pril 100

to Ci:?a

and tien deturned to carin. (in 15:96, ipril 1105):

to Cuba.

5905, Lebruary 1963)

Lorrisa's reported duties as soccial courier

and control

of the csie roon indicates esplogront do the

cuban

Intelligence sortico according

to info---tion las. has

reccived im duGAl.

(It Is

forward ant local traces iiich add

the forgoing

2..

Please query Anilol on Estale and the above

information

and foraru to addressees.

_taywinplay.en

Distilbution:

Attichaent::

15-27

= 005: 59449155-2

as sintei

#8951912A54

5/BR

---

