HO4-t0t130100]
care a ea Cle

6 April 1948

3 : :
10 : ( aah :
| (
SUBJECT : lLunien Emile CONEIN :
REFERENCE: (arb 24, 4 March 198

,

1.’ Subject was born in Paris on 29 November 1919, the ile-
gitimate son of Iu GOWEIN, born March lyth 1872 at Meaux,
LIN, born June 6th 1893 at Soengi, Sumatra.

‘and Estelle Leontine Aim
The birth was registered at the Mairie of the Ith Arrondissement under
the name of ELIN, although subject was later recognized by his father
and took the name of CONEIN. CONEIN Sr. died at Redon (Ille-et-Vilaine)
on February Ist 192h. :

2. CONEIN went to the United States in 1925 and was brought up
by his maternal aunt, Mrs. Jeanne McBEE, presently living at 1013 Wiscon-
sin Street, San Francisco, California. The latter has been in the United
States since 1921 and became a naturalized citizen on 19 June 192.
CONEIN became a naturalized citizen on August 11th 192 at Tacoma, Washing-
ton. His mother is presently applying at this Embassy for an immigration
visa on the Netherlands quota, in conformity with the Immigration Act of
192h which states that nationality for quota purposes shall be determined
py the place of birth. Her sponsors for entry into the United States are
her sister and her son, both of whom have filed affidavits at the Embassy.
CONEIN also has a younger brother presently living with his mother at 15
rue du Chalet, Malakoff, Seine. The latter is married and is attempting

_ to get a divorce.

we
“ye Cae 3. According to the affidavit submitted by CONEIN in his mother's
pre favor, he was first married on 29 July 1943 and divorced on 9 November of
: wie \ the same year. No further detailS-conmeerning this marriage are stated,
ea Nae -He was remarried -in Paris on April 2nd 19,6 at the Mairie of the 1st Arr-
pee ondissement to Monique Denise Pierre VEBER, born January 20th 1919 at Nice,
bead the daughter of Serge Pierre VEBER, well-known theatrical producer, and

4,

December 197. The records of the Tribunal Civil of ~~
ay ie the Seine Department indicate that a decree of divorce "in absentia" was
Sad cae ‘ granted on that date at the request of Monique Denise VEBER in the absence

Qe of CONEIN. According to French law this decree is not considered valid
until officially notified to CONEIN personally, at which time the perti-
nent data will be entered in the marriage register of the Ist Arrondisse-
ment where they were married. This has not yet been done and CONEIN is

F if if therefore not yet considered legally divorced according to. French law.
SEY.

"SECRET

ns Jeanne Henriette ALCAN, They are both French citizens. Tnchildren were
co fas born of this marriage. According to CONEIN's sworn statement he was
yw ris on



‘yay WE

SECRE)

~2-

4. Certain discrepancies exist in the matter of the exact date of
CONEIN's second marriage. Official French records give the date of mar=-
riage as April 2nd 1946, which is presumably the correct one. According
to CONEIN's file in the Passport Section of the Embassy he was married
in Paris on May 13th 19462¢(WFPWQH2) of March th 1948, on the other hand,
states that he was married April 23rd 1946 in Paris. It is possible that
these discrepancies are the result of a clerical error somewhere along the
line, or that one indicates the date of the civil ceremony and one the
religious ceremony, which is usual in France though rarely so far apart.

5. During the course of her routine interview at the Embassy in

connection with her application for an immigration visa, Mrs. CONEIN Sr,
displayed a notable reluctance to discuss her son's affairs. She stated

ao Little or no Contact’ with tin ahd Was Not aware of his
marital situation, although she had heard that he had recently been di-
vorced. Wo valid reason for this reticence:is known, particularly since
investigation revealed that she was a frequent visitor to her son and
daughter-in-law at 171 rue Saint Honore. This information is therefore
submitted for the record and whatever it might be worth.

6. Serge Pierre VEBER, CONEIN's father-in-law, was born in Paris
on September 2nd 1897, He was married in Paris on April 18th 1918 to
Jeanne Henriette Denise ALCAN, born July 3rd 1896 at Ville d'avray (S-et-0).
Yoni que Denise CONEIN, nee VEBER, born January 20th 1919 at Nice, is
their only child. VEBER is a well-known dramatic writer and producer.
In 1939 the VEBER family lived at 15 Quai de Conti, Paris. VEBER left
that address in 191 and is believed to have joined his family in Algiers.
In 193 the family was investigated in order to determine whether or not
they were Jews. It was eventually determined that although they had
Jewish connections they were to be classified as Aryans. Serge Pierre VEBER
has a brother, Gilles Pierre, born February 17th 1896 in Paris. He is
divorced from one Raymonde KIATEMACKERA and was remarried in Paris on 25
May 1935 to Catherine AGADJANIANTZ, born 25 November 1911 in Petrograd.
The latter, who is of Russian origin but a French national, had herself
‘been divorced from one Jean ROSSIGNOL, They have three children and in
193 were living at 7h rue Erlanger, Paris lée. Gilles Pierre VEBER is
a writer who has published numerous novels and for twenty years he was an
associate editor of "Le Mafin", No derogatory information concerning the
VEBER family was revealed during the course of the investigation.

(No file copies made).

SECRET.
