# 104-10529-10179

## Page 1

62101-6ZS0L-VOL

€ i.

S.

RETAKE:

1421

POLAND

SORLD BOIE

iNOPORY IY SIARTE REMAINITE INFO RELARAHL IU

1 SOILT INTELLACTAL CLINATE TODAY: WRITERS OU

1ES LIBBRAL

PYOSUABION SEN TO BE FUTAINIS, 1N3 D TIE CROSIO LOST IN LAST

AFRIKES COLTURE HENRIMES " COITETATITES AN STI TOCAL IN TIEIE

CRITICIAN. AND THRISSCHET APPEAL TO LATE ROVERTEN IN A POSITION

JI RELATITS NEEZRALITY. DOMA

?.

SOTINY SOTTIS I5 SEALISXYNE ALISD RERLIN ACCISS: TEE

LATEST ACTOBEN FIRST IS & MUTTER IPTICATICE THAT INSCON IN-

FEMAS TO COPTIMER HARASSING ERIE TOO CORINTS TO GUSICS ATTIDE

DE BROADS: WERE HERE ES ON TEST BERLIC.

MORE AN ARCH LEO HAS O THE!: NOS WE RESULT DE

ROT!!

---

## Page 2

1d-0d0d

ії

elete lida

12318

Sin surd.

"ENTIRERATE PROVOCATION"TE ISSR APFARENTLY DESIRES TO AVOID

THE RISE OF EVEN A LIMITIN MILITANY CONPRONTATION.

& CARATA PITH ERY MINI RTATING ITS VETER

POLIC, FITZ THE LIE DE ISIN I CARS MILITALI ESTARLISINGVI

18 MORE COMIENSURATR WITH ITS POSITION AS A "TOLE CHARI- ENER.

THIS ALICY XIVINI IS OUTCRONTH OF MATAYING DRKASIRKES IN THE DEFENIE

SPARTHLAT OVER CAN FSTUKLE OTATA'S MILIZARY COLNTTIGNTS AND RESOUR.

TO CABAY THEN OUT. ALYPODOR BONE CUT? IN EXFENDITUNKS HAVE BETT

FADE ANE VOR ARB EXPICTED, AN ZARI! SHIT IN TEE COTERRANT'S POLICY

70 ACCENE MECLIÁS LAPORS IDE U ASS CANADIAN PORCZS STATIONED IN

CAMARA I8 MIYIRLY, IN ELY SELL I LACETTE JAT OF GITIT DE A

ATTLER! POLE ONCE TAE T-I 48 AM TOEARER BECOME DESOLETE. |I

1. ITALY TEE POLITICAL SITATTON IS MARKING TIES, FOLLOWING

FFEMIER LETONES EISIGNATIOK AND LINDIRE PRESIDEFT SEGNTS APTJINTARNT

---

## Page 3

14-000n

CLASSIE TO MESSAGE

--"**

TO CER

•ICE TEREE..

PROSPECT. IROSITI OUT A ATTRALLY ACCEFTABLE LNUISLATIVI PROGRAY

BOS YIT TO BE PACKD US TO. IMPROVING YAS FROBFICTS FOL SDOCKSAEUL

"BESTIATYONS IS TEX FORITION OF TAY CHINCH WHICH SHHIS TO FAVE

TEMPLESS SCIPIRAT IT OUTSITION TO A MISS IN TRICO IS LEGIOTIAN

DEMOCRATE AND SOCIETY FOULD EX FIT.

3 VIRAM LON FINISE CABINE: CRISIS BIND 31 00T M

PITY CIVIL STVAN LO FIL FOL VOID BY TE OIN PEFRESETA

TIVES TED XIIIINY TRON YES CABINT LANY AND IN PROTHET OVER A OOY..

THAT MING TO LATE HERS, MIS NIR A SHINE TO THE

RICHT BY TIS ARABIANS IIO FEIVIOUY EAD DECLANED TERY POULD NUT

METICIRAX IN & CABINIT WICH DIS NOT TICLUE LABOR FAPRIATNTATIVES

I CONTAT OPTICIALS HAVE KITAIRED THIN OLD CABINS POSTS, VETLE TE

MY DUE LAY DUEE ALLIGATO TO FOOTE ON MYRIS IMPORTANCE. ONK

IDE XINED VITE THE AGRARIAL RIOTEIN, PALON TO A BINA FACTION

WHICH ADVOCATRE CONTRIST PAR'ICINITIDE IN THE COVERTIFT. (CONT)

6. COMON HITST: CNNST FASTITS IN LEELE DE TRE li.

AND AGEICTITERAL SUFISTERS MA: DETERHITE WHETHER BOSE AID PN:I.. ::

---

## Page 4

150:0

!...!

BASKET

• NÜ NUDEY

191u53 112z

1109

Haro

81421

"ICE TOIR-

DISPUTT. ON KEY INNIN ON GRATH PRICHS AMit

PIE IS SCAFELY

TAPTIONS ME ORGASE. ME BRACE SOLUTION, TO PIX PRICES

DET OUSE.

REALITY 14

:. INER: BACOX ANANA MORON TO CORNIA NARCINE TAS IS

ORARAVATION GLACION IN MAN ONE GANGES APTER CHORN TATICE

PATSAL LAD LACRITNO AREERANCE TAG GE DE VOOLS TONES STION:

HE TY CLEAN THAT IN WILL ES ESPINVYKO ONLY IN CAIRO QUICELY

manias as to toor

IS VISH THE FORATELS DICTATION SE A BAL

MY ANI

NOT MINIC IN DOES MI KIT DO

PHYN TO IS AID TO KEN THE ROTALISTS

we tot

---

## Page 5

we pote

1:42

<.::

-PHOR POTR.

DISPUTE. ON BLY 1S80E OF GRATH PRICKS ARMATIERE 1E BCALLI

INEXT ITTEN MARTY, MONIES POSSIRILITIES ANS NAST O'E3.

SOPRAL SO COMPUN MAT ITS FAGTSCABILITY TS PSSTION

19905.

..

SAUDI ALABIA MONICO TO COMPTICE PIRANCIE TES JI

CCERSVATION HIBSION IN TRUSY UNTIL d JAN OUT ATTEN CLOUR PRINCE

PAYAL HAD RECEIVID ANNUANCES THAT TAK OU VOUKD EXHET STRONE

PETE OY BIVAY TO SUEDE THE CAIT DETER E.

PATEAL ".S

MADE TF CURAN MAT FI MTYL DE BATISPYKO ONLI I CAIRO CUTOI!

ITTINATE ALL ITS FEDORS WITH HAS POSITEZE INCIPIION OF A BALI

MILITATI ADITSOE MICHIOR, MY FROSIBLY DOUBTS 79AI BETFT WILL IX>

THIS, AID FAT I PITATES TO SUAL AID NO INN TIR BOYA-INTS

Di monting an

---

## Page 6

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECERT

17 87

1: 1

!?".

i? a

/ cigare

8142/

-FACT IT

JADE LITTLE FROSSES IN TORTING OUT A POLITICAL NATTIAISENS THAT

VOULD FICATE TRININ NON HOUTILE TO TIR RITUULICAN RNSTIES. HIB

IMPORTS TO ACHINVS A MNS BASAILY BARED CONTRIT MAY BE

РАСТ ПРАЧКУ НУ ГОВНІРУУ БЛІГАЙ' КУ З СВІ РОВ ЗРІС

TINATHANI PERCEIRS A SPACE ASPACE.

&. STAL-IRIG. HOMES OF NAMITE POLITICAL LITOS ESTFERE

IRAQ AND SINÇA CONTIN TO ARMINO N BUTTA COUNTAINS IT DO FEE

ON NA NA LISS OCTUNA COSTINCH & THE LUNATION LEADENHIS

TOMATO DECIALIATION AND ABLE DETY APRANENTEY DENTIATED THE

PROCHRONIN, //AID PARTY CO-FOURNER SATAN BITAB, NON PERITER OF

STRIA, IVIDENTLY NAS BEST DROPINO FROM TS INERASIORAL CENTRAL

СОСТА НА ТИ ПАНИТИ

BING HANDPRITO BAB Y

ALIENT TRADITIONAL SORRE CEOURS IN BOTH COMITRIES EITHOUT

PAINTIS ANY BICNIFICATI HIS ALTAFENTE. CIVIL SERVANTS AND ARET

OPTICIOS SAVE ENEM DETORALITHD BY PURGAS, MATHILR//PLANS U SET

UP A JOINT MILITARY CONTATO AFFRAS TO LE LOTISE FORMARO RAPIDLE.

SYRIAY TROOPS ARE IN IRAQ FELFING TIS CAMPAION AGAINT THE BURDS.

:A."

SECRET

C.=0s No.

---

## Page 7

TE STING

CHEERLE

maid

rister.

1. 8H953 0943z

DE SIR CER

ROUTINE

MARGE BDI

CITE DiS. 81421

AT TILE ME DISPELT TO DANI HAd SOLARISE ON ECONONIC UNITY"

?. JAME:

PEES ABUND OF MATURA To OVEN 7010

da cron 70

12-3:

TO THIS TEC

NY FOR

BOPE TO CAPITALI GION DSBRATTNPACTION WITH THE IN ITTON

MITZ, DIS NATA CRETION DOC, 246 NEED CoAT VE 90

IS SERIES TO RICA IRS BUOR LENTEARD TENNO LE JAPANESE VOTING

BABYTE TO VIN LO NOTE BRATE ANO ACRIVE BY ITIES ONE-THIRO

OF THE SOCHE MAAHHHIP TICISIANY TO BLOCE CON TITUTIONAL

ATHENIO. DESPITE TUS SOCIALISTS CANIM HODERATION.

THOGY

REMAIN OPOBED TO INTDAB CLOGE FAME COIVAIRATION FIT! TE SC.

(CONF)

A1.c....

REACH WE ME THAt GO MORE ME! A PROHIOTED.

C=,":.

---

## Page 8

CLASSTED MESSAGE

SECRET

ROUTINS

| 8%0%

01 437

8/491

-PACH SEVEr.

10. MOROCCO ALCERIA THE CRASE TIL BETUKEN MOROCCO AND

NIGERIA KICANX EFFECTIVE ON : 10F TELL & MALIAN OBSERVER HACHED TEE

ACTION FOR TO DIYS ADE TAL CHAL FIE YA TO BAY CON INO

DO TIRIN BONORT MANARITORY DO A RISTINO DU TYR IAGANTRATTON 0

ATRICAT UTTY, AND TU PONSTON KITATES MAY CONVEN IN ADSTE

PORATO ROLANDO A SATINO CA DA SORR-ARENA CALENYA, MASOCCO,

TRIOSA, AND TALE) CONTRETeN PLANSSUID BY THE CLASS-VIES LOKE

HONSVES, AND TEE BUILDISE ON DOTE SILES 18 TIRELY TO CONTINUES.

ON THE ALOKBIAN BONESTIC PROSY, BEM MA AXPONIIDSY HAS MET EITH

LIADKIS OF THE HASTITS DIABILANS IN AX APPAINT EYPORT TO

aCHIEVE AN ACCORDATION.

II. TURNNY: INCAN STION DO IT NOV PILL SO FROVIER THE

FIRST TRET OF THE PARTIES: POPCAE STHANITA SINCE 19B1. AND MAY

SE """"

partne tic

Car:, lic.

---

## Page 9

14-00000

4:=•

1:4:8

Perse

CHITIN

097713 80832

.:iC

CITE DIR: 81412/

BAD TO TICS BELAT OF OF FEE

WIFE THORUS COALITION DOTIRINENT.

HOOT CARNIVERS PIPECT TRAT THE OVURITION JESTICE MATY, DEANI

MANY MITY THI

HE TO LAST MAL LIS LATE CO

BUT IP TION ININ DOUG AS FARADE

1. SWAN I

BATS TIMS, IN TINRATININO TO PELL OUT OP MIR MAGENNE COALTELOE

BECAUN OT DATECTIONI IT IS SENTISTIC TON ITS 'TOLE IN VES COVENTE

AND NAY SOYY THI OPINITION ATTA CAR TACTIONS. IP IT STARS IT

VILL DEST TIN SETLACIRNUT OR IRORA, SURA TUE BOST ORINDATIC

SPONSEMAN DE IONS'A CUE REFAZICAT FOOTED'S PASTY DO 2OT SETERS

BIGAS OF RIDICHING LINA PHILURE, AM COALTION HITHOUT BITHER THE

NIP ON SP TOULD DIPLOD INCKRARINLLY ON HILITARY COPPRT.

SIE 2013 SURE FATE ME MEET 2 PETE CER

SECRET

into intre

---

## Page 10

14-00000

cuscoe" Verfere

S3CRET

18-31

÷3:

oi?!

C:";

81401

•PAGE NINE.

A IANOELY CIVILIAN CARINLT EAS BKEN SFPOINTED, BUT THE SILITARY

CLEARLE INTEND TO PUiU THE ASIRO DE LOVERTHCHT, GENERALS OCCUS!

AE POSTS OF DRFINOS, SCLETY, AN ENCAIATION, AAD À MILIIARI

IXECUTIYI COINTTTEE HRADKD BY MIJOR GUIKRAL DUDNG VAN "HIG" MINH

IE FESZEN PITA SUARKNE KOICUTIVS AID LEMIALATIVE AUTSONTTY ETTI!

THE CPARACIEN OY A BUPACAPYNIT, THE CRIALS' TAVS ALRIADY EAD

BONES. IRSCELE BRALTEG VITE ANBITIOT JORTPICIANI AOCKSINE FOS

POTT, AID AN VIEIL ASCLT DUE LINE ITLITÁRI EEO FIS "ET.

TATY CIVIEIANS AID CRUHALS ALE JIERIFI AT TER PHONTEETE

or

BAJON GRUNRAL YON TRAT DINS, TII MST NILITANY "COVIRHOR" dE RAIDON

AND UXNIETIA CS HATIONAL SICURITY, NI IS CONSIDITED OPTORTUNINTIC,

HTCHLE ANITICNS, IID IRANTTORI: THO ON HIS TORHER UOONTKATES

MAVI NINY HAIKO AE COMTAIRES OY FHE MILITANY COES ANRAS U

FOUDIES BAISON. THI VIET CONC HAVI STIPPED GP JISAIA, SCALE

HAHATIN ATTACKS IN TUE DELTA SIMCE TXE COUP.

13. GRIBCS: TE MARBOE URETT KLSCTIOR VICTORY DE GEONGE

ALPÍNDINOE:S CEITER ENION HAI LEAD TO AN EXTIUAED FERIOD OF

POSITICAL INSTATUTIY IR GRRRCE. PAPASAROUD, MITTI 140 OUT 2E •

Äut!!"

ii irisemggriEi.

Hr6y Mon.

---

## Page 11

92€6nt

T-i

880y53 04432

SURGEN

I*pUTiNE

INFO

-HICK TEH

CITE JIR.

81431

900 BRATS, IE TRYINO TO ORGANIZE A COTERSINUT POR FRNSENTATION TO

KING PAW, ON I HOTTITELY. /BLESS MILITARY LEADERS NEPONTLDLY

HAVI HANG IT CHILE THAT THIT VILE TOY TOLERATE MATTCATION BY

ЧИ ВНі ПОСТИ TI ПТАС LT (S0-BRATE)//.

PAW TO 1 ANITA

VOINS HE

HIDE TO FOM A YORKING MAJORITY PINTELY I

I DITTOMA

ПІСЛЬ ПИТО! САТЕ НАТВУ ОЗ РОКИ ТЕ

CHANIS

IS LAUR TO CERATE NURTERS CONCENIONS ANTORS ALSOPIO HIS

FOLLENNIS TO NETICIPA, AT HENAVEGE VILL BEST TO METACH DOMI

* TEE BY SEE LEG DE COTARNIEIT POSITIONS AND FAVORE.

NITALY LIANT ANS LIALI TO TAKE A LANCE BOLE IT TANI THER

DISHES FILT IN TIBHOT TO PEOPLES CATIMET HANS I IS TELE

AS AGAINT ANY ARRANCEHENY TIAN FOULD LENT ON CONUNISTS. THE

PALACK'S DECISITY BOLT IN KRO-VING TE CRISIS MAY TERPORARILY STEM

END O. MesSnE.

S?.

•:.:

+ 449700801

---

