# 104-10222-10032

## Page 1

104-10222-10032

MATERIAL REVIENED AT CIA HEADQUARTERS BY

MOUSS SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF NENBERS

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/ VOLUME:

(TICHBORN. )

LOPEZ, HENRY N,

INCLUSIVE DATES:

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:

ROOM: -

DELETIONS, IF ANY:

DATE

RECEIVED

DATE

RETURNED

REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME)

SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

NO DÓCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS TILE

SENUISA

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECRET

17 September 1968

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Contract Personnel Division

SUBJECT

: Contract Amendment

Edward G. TICHBORN

Transmitted herewith is original and one copy of

amendment to subject's contract which was terminated

31 August 1968, signed by subject acknowledging a one-time

Lump sum

taxable payment in the anount of $3,311, which

SErVES

as a "quit claim".

Chier, Do personnel & Tralning

Attachments:?

cc:

SECRET

---

## Page 3

DECALI

Mr. Edward G. Tichborn

Dear Mr. Tichborn:

Roforence le made to your contract with the United States Govorn

ment, effective ly May 1961, as amended.

Ellective: li August 1968 you are authoried a one-time lump

aum taxable payment in the amount of $3, 1ll.

n full and final consideration for authorisation and payment of 8l

bove sum, you herein release and forever diucharge the United State

Government and any Agency, Defariment or Instrumentallty thereol

and its agento, officers, employous and representativos from any are

all claimo, demando and liabilities in ady form or by any party thalloever

throughout the world artaing from

services performed by you for the

United States Government under sald contract.

All othor terma and conditiona of the contract, as amended,

remain in full force and effect.

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

BY

Contracting Officer

ACCENTED:

Edward G. Tichborn

WITNESS:

APFROVED:

15 Que, 68

PFORIT

603g

---

## Page 4

14-00000

SCRAT

12 August 1968

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Contract Personnel Division

THROUGH:

Assistant for Non-Staff Personnel..

SUBJECT:

Edward G. TICHBORN (P) - Contract Agent

APPROVED:

1. Subject has been given 30 days notice as provided in his

contract, to the effect that his contract will be terminated 31 August

1968.

2. Subject was initially employed in 1959 and was transferred to

DO Division in July of 1967 from the WH Division.

In the course of

discussing the termination of his servires, subject staled that during

his tenurc with the WH Division, he had been promised curtain bonuses

upon termination of his Agency service. The WH Division has agreed

to a termination payment of $3, 310. 7? which represents two months!

salary of a per annum salary of $17, 000 plus $177. 39 in settlement of .

his accounting which is nonasable.

3. In addition it is requested that the following atatement be included

in the amendment:

You release and forever discharge the United States

Gov'rnment and any Agency, Departnient or Indirumentality

thereof and ita agents, officers, employees and representatives

from any and all claims, demands and liabilities in any form

or by any party whatsoever throughout the World arising from

services performed by you for the United Stated Governnent

under said contract.

4. Attached is signed Notice of Termination in dunliato

27552256

g1.50A8.0..

Thirt. DO support Group

go stated

---

## Page 5

piling

NOTITICATON OF FAMINITON ON CONTACT

Mr. Henay P. Lopcz

Dest ViI. Lopos:

Jou are hercby notifice that your survices undir à contract

with tho U:S. Govramunt, cective 19 May 1961, irc do bc ermin-

ale dor she chronicace of die U.S. Goerent puritils parin

graph 10 of said contruct, and saul lic dira (30) enya solica roguirud

You are ruminded of lie contenis oi paragraph 9 of luid contract

which acads as follows:

"9.

• Socrecy:

You iill be required to leer duraver secret

this contract and ill info-rainor which you may corin by

reason horco! funless relenace la Writing by to Corcinnaat

from such obligation), with luil Inowlecgo tha vication of

such secrecy muy subject you lo crinindl prozecutior urior

tho esplonige lims, dated 15 JundliS, as arcaded, aná

other applicable lava and regulacions.

Your signaturo in tho araco provided below in acticolcagorone

of the contents hercor.

(rain)

1, ..

ESNTUEEDRIUTNO C.2E01

---

## Page 6

14-00000

24 Novomber 1967

Edward O.. Tichbore

1 October 1967

19 May 1961

ano (l) year

247o.67

I 6h1119

---

## Page 7

14-00000

16 November 1967

MEMORANDUM POR: Contract Persoal Dirloion •

SUBJECT

: Eduard G. 12025028 (P)

It is requested that sire's contract which expired

30 September 1567 be extender 25r vse year..

chief, d, tersonnel & Truining

APPROVED:

---

## Page 8

ta-itodos

poio de sido des 1o

Memorandum

TAD

VIA

: 0F/C&TD/CAAg

¿Contract Personnel Diviaion

wH/Contracta

81:0p1.6:8:

Eduard G. TICHICRH, Reassigerent

111F: July B, 1987

furthor "

C/DO/Pors may Do contacted for

ce: C/VH/BA

C/ DO, Pers

SECRET

sputar conlracting Ollicer

---

## Page 9

14-00000

SECRET

DATE:

CTC No.

MEMORANDUM, FOR:

Director of Finance

ATTENTION:

Chief, Compensation and Tax Division

VIA:

Chief, Contract Perconnel Divl8i0n

SUBJECT:

Tax Assedsment for_

:::. 1030. (5)

1. A flat rate covert tax asceserent of thia Individual's

groas, tarable hyeney entitlements bas been approved by the Covert

Tax Committee ac indicated below, hn schnoredged letter of tax

instruction I 1s Ly 111 be formaried.

Ter Absecament Rate

Effective Dhte

a food to grae

2. Other payroll factoro pertinent to tials Covert Tax Committee

tax ancecement uction are as follows:

Secretary, Covert Tax Consistee

3019 2643

SECRET

11-A-818

3 - CPD•

---

## Page 10

18 Oct 66

C/CFJ:

trached is a mait of an amendient on TICSOiN

ote cogo vi reniest asis for an increase in hasi

See fun $12, 000 to 917, lock based on TICH"OPHs

Moverall performance and full line services". alo

aiiicional menoranda in file seflect the

following's

4) 19 day 1901 contract (still in effect) provided

a basio fes oi $S000 with no mention of earunt

of time dubject worked to earn such.

sue to 57u00 based upon,

erfomance and the inerase ant, of time whic

¿ devotes to Arency requirements!

(3) i daspatch of 9 Nov 6l said that,

2/3rds subject's time-- TiCHROll pointed out....

he now engaged 90% of his time for Agency".

(4) 153 meno of 21 Nov 6! requested an increase from

$9O00 to $12,000 based upon TICHBORN's increased

value plus "using TiCinOMi's service on

s::bstantially a full time basis".

(5) As cited above, surrent will memo of 7 Oct 66 asks

for an incroase of dad from $12,000 to $17,000

based on subject'g "overall performance and full

time services".

I cointed out the above chrorowith respect to

the ever increasing usage of subject'e time to, jeneran

who apparently joels the last mero 1u OK unless UPD

de:Ires to make a formal objection and retirn 1t.

Paul

Paul-ok to papere-

a will hold pendinis

it of sip steente

will suitsit a nice sucho

to justify the current requent.

---

## Page 11

1d-0d0

----

SANCT

1x. Edward G. Tichbora

Dear Mr. Tichborn:

Referenco le made to your contract with the United States Covornment,

as reprovented by Rhe Contrackag Offleer, elfoctive 19 May 1961, as amonded.

Elloctive l Cetober 1266, sald contract, as amendad, le furthor amendod

by:

(a) Dolating the figure $12, 099 from paragrain one (1) (a) and

subatituting in lieu thereaf the digare $17, 000;

(0) Daloting paragraub ono (l) (b) in 1to entrary; and

(e) Adding the following paragraph:

"13, Offed?. Emolumenta (including benefite in lind) recelved

• from of through your cover activities are the property of the

U.S. Government. Procedurally, such emoluments will ba

oliset against amovato due you under this agreement and are

acknowlodgod to be payinent by the Government hereunder and

for Foceral income tax purposes. L cover emolumente exceed

those due you under this contract, you rill diapose of the ozcesa

amount in conformance «th Governmental lastructions:"

In addition, sald contract lo furtbar amended by extending ite terro

through 30 Separaber 1967.

All otior tarms dad conditions of said contract, as amendiod, verali

da fall force and ellact.

UNITED STATES GOVERNMINT

BY,

Contracing Clicer

ACCEPTED:

•Edward 6, Tichbeen

WITNESS:

APROVED:

SWAST

Tails

---

## Page 12

SECREI

31 October 1966

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Contract Personnel Division

FROM

SUBJECT

: WH/Pers/Contracts

: Edward G. TICHBORN, Contract Compensation

1.

Reterence is made to your recent oral request con

cerning the increase in compensation for Edward G. TICHBORN.

Independent Contractor.

It is to be noted tha

he basic recommendation also provided for the amendment t

offset, cover earnings.

SECRET

sackas

---

## Page 13

14-00000

SECRET

7 OCT 1966

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Contract Personnel Division

SUBJECT

: Edward G. TICHBORN, Contract Amendment

It is reguested that the contract, as amended, for

Edward G.

TICHBORN

amended effective intone least on matter

a Increase basic compensation to

annum.

con 20, 517,000. per

Delete para. l.b.

The provision is not appli

cable due to reassignment to a domestic location.

Provide offset provision of basic contrac

ompensation as TICHBORN will be pald through

OrD may accormine whether it is necessary to

modify the

amendmentg relating to Social Security and

Income Taxes as deductions will be handled by the

Extend concract through 30 September 1967.

Provide for TICHBORN's acceptance and signature

on the amendment.

The increase in basic compensation is based on

TICHBORN's overall performance and full time services.

SECRET

---

## Page 14

Contructifevice - Edwnd G. Tichburn (P)

Dale

_ Acliss

Comperatios

15 oc SY

Hied as an Indefuduct Contructor

50 Par doy

13 Jan 60 Tag ad ont mens

See Contruil

23 FE$ 61

81

18 May 61 Contract Temunated

19 Maug6/. Hired as anIndefundent Contractor

$8.000 P.A.

18 Ming 63. Pay wicicease...

4,000

1 DEc 64.

12,000

i Dec 64 1s ani Indefundeet Contractos, authorized

Social Semity

---

## Page 15

SECRET

Mca tidward De Tichborn

• Dear Mr. Iichbora

Reforence la made to your current contract with the

Unttod States Government, ao rapresented by the Contracting

Officer.

Effectin 37 MAY 1966

sald contract

¡a amendod by duleríe; all referenco to Income taxes therefrom,

and by adding thoreto the following paragraph:

"A Tases

do an indopendent contractors montes

paid you under parasrach one lal

-above conomfutiaxable

Incomo for federal las pirposes and you must antiuly your federal

cas liability thoreon. Such lacome may bo pald you by or through

a cover facillty, Bocause a cover, operational, and socurity

conalderatione the Tax Committes of thie organsation is authorted

to make cortain deiernandons and establich proceduras (including

tas withholdings) which will result in the full salofaction of your

Federal income and Sonal Security tax obligations. It id upecifically

indeetcod and agroed u:st such determinationa and proceduras:

whather aral or trideo, constitute an iniogral part of thia contract

and are legally Incorparated herein by rotorence."

All plant forma sad conditiona of mid contract remain in

fuli forco and cífoce.

UNITED STATE: COVLATMENT

DY Conicating Offer

SECRET

Group 1 - Excluded irors automatic downgrading, and declassifleation

---

## Page 16

....o

SECRET

DATE:

CTC No.

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director of Finance .

ATTENTION:

• Chiêf, Compensation and Tax Division

VIA:

Chief, Contract Personnel Division

SUBJECT:

Tax Assesement for

I. A flat rute covert tax absessment of this Individual'g

gross, taxable Agency entitlemento has been

approved by the Covert

Tar Committce -as indiented below. An acknowledged letter of tax

Instruction L7 1e I will be forwarded.

Tax Assesament Rute

5:5, 101 Mind. in ..

and sent livory

Cuban chi slammuld per acre (1a.5)

1. 1. 1;

Effective Date

6101423

2. Other payroll factors portinent to

thla Covert Tax Committee

tax ussessment action ure as follous:

i:: .!!.

ture trail

....3.

÷=-.

Approvai Chief, CPD--

• : ::'

2226231

3-19 2643

..:a

SECRET

f1.4.89)

---

## Page 17

$ 1200

5 E-C-R-E-T

(Whon Filled in!

MEMORANDUM FOR:

Office of Finance

FROM

Contract Perronel Divlalon

SUBJECT

Contract Extenaton for

Eduard O. TIGHUCRA

1. Ellecsivo...

19 November 1965

_ the contrace lar an mariacs

luis the subjose individunt, ellecting 19 May 1961

aslendad for a period oi

2. All other terms mad condisions of the contractlas imarded:

erla in full loren nod aliece.

UNITED STATES CO:2E HASN'T

---

## Page 18

SECRET

Mr.

Dear Mr.

-15020

Reference is made lo your current contract with the United Sested

Government, as represenled by the Contracting Ollicer.

Arrangemento have been recently completed allowing cortala

Independent contractors of this organization to obtain sucial securley

credita by covering such individuals under the social security tas

providons applicable to employees. These arrangemento aloo include

a providion for retroaclive applicability to the beginning of the

1965 tas year.

This can be done only for reasons of security since

the procedure results do reducing the social security tax from the

self-employed rale to tbe employee rate. for example, in January

of 1965 the tax sates were 3,41 and 3-5/8% respectively.

No a consequence thereof, euld contract lo amended by deleting

all reference to social security and by adding the following paragraph:

"Effective I Decembes 1964, social security taxes will be l

deducted by this organization from your compensation in the same

manner and to the same extent as would be done ll you were a Govern

ment employee.

Security reasons make this procedure necessary. Its

Implementation does not imply in any manner the actoal creation of an .

employee-employer relationahip, Your legal atatus under thie agree

ment continues to be that of an Independent contractor.'

Il you recelre or expect to secelve full or parlial sochal securlty.

credita from overt suurces you will so notify tis organization and an

adjustmant will be raade or

Idiocontinued, depending

upon the circumstances. Further. ll you should subsequently recelve

over local curte redite you ence thornot will be bli did yota

organization.

deductions returned.

All other terras and conditiona of said contract remain in full force

and effect.

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT-

BY

Contracting Officer

SECRET

Group 1 - Excluded from automatic downgrading and declassification.

---

## Page 19

14-00000

tr. Edward G. Tichborn

Dear Mir. Tichbori:

Reference la made to yeur contrace with the Undied Stated Govoramen:.

as roproscutod by the Contracting Olílear, affective 19 A'ay 1961, as

amended.

Ellactive l5 November 1961 aald contract le amended by onlarging

Sha scope of paragraph one (1) entitled "Componsation" to authoriss a one

time paynion of addillonal tasablo compensatios da the amount of $1500.

Esocival Decembes 1961 the figure 59,000 is deleted from paragraph

one (1) (a) and la lou shorcal the figure $12, 000 1a oubatitutod.

Ellective 19 November 1964 said contraci, as amendod, do extendod

for a perlod of ona (1) year.

Ul other torma and conditions of the contract, as amended, remal

a fall force and allock.

UNITED STATES COVERNMENT

BY

Contracting Officer

---

## Page 20

14-00000

S52331

24 Novembur 1964

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Contract Personnal Division

SUBJECT

: Edward G. TICHBORi, Contract Amendent

It is requested that the contract, as aiminded

for kidward G. TICIBOR:,

be furtiur amanded

as follow's:

Effuctive 15 November 1964 a on:-tin:

Payoint will

bi made by the Station.

Incrsave In bas

to $12,000 per annum

compinsation fro 29,000

December 1964.

Estind period of contract for

an additional

one year.

Thicluxico Cration recommendation as concurred

with by Wid to basid on incrasad oparational accivitics

raulrad having available and

full time basis.

agreed to fulfill the ascignments including ToY arcigments

In othor countrie fron tim. co

In vim of eh: 1.v.1

of the work involvid and of TIChSORts dmonstrelid

the basie rucomm-ncation: ar: considord fully varrant:o.

---

## Page 21

1d-0n0d

ROUTING

RI

MESSAGE FORM

O21d

O INDOr

IXT , 4523

O NO INDEE

27 SECRET

S0-6-116/2

DATE, 9 NOVENRER 196d SERENES RENO. 201-253203

TO MEXICO CITY

FROM DIRECTOR

COND: WAS

ted And

I Nev 61 10

10z

00 R/AM, CAJO 4 C12,028, 0F3, VR. ALLEN

TO

INFO.

MEXI

LICOLIC

REF:

63360..

HINMA 24353

1. EDNARD G.

EICHBORN DISCUSSED TERMS HIS KUBAR CONTRACT DURING -

VISIT HOS EARLY NOVEMBER. LIQS AGREES PRESENT EXRINA EXPIRING CONTRACT

CALLED FOR ABOUT TWO THIRDS SUBJ'S TIME. TICHBORN POINTED OUT PER

REFERENCE HE NOW ENCACED NINETY PERCENT TIME FOR KUBARK.

2. SURJECT STATION CONCURRENCE MOB RECOMMENDS NEW ONE-YEAR

ROXIANXEI CONTRACT PROVIDE RAISE FROM $9000 TO $13000 PLUS $300U

DUARTERS PER ANNUY, ALSO LUMP SUM PAYMENT IS0U DULLARS FOR CUMPENSATION

HIS RECENT FULL. TIME SERVICE FUASPEN. ADVISE IF YOU CONCUR EXTEND HIS

CONTRACT ONE YEAR EFFECTIVE 19 NOVEMBER.

3. HOS TOLD TICHBORN NE CONSIDERED HIS SERVICES VALUABLE AS

WELL, AS HITS EVER-NILLINGNESS DEPART ON SHORT D NOTICE ASSIGNMENTS OTHER

DIVISION AREAS. OBVIOUSLY THIS PROPOSED RAISE WITH WHICH SUBJECT SOULD

NOST HAPPY SINCE STILT IMPOSES NO RESTRICTIONS ON HIS SONETÍNE

OUTSIDE LEGAL NORA, WELL BE WITH UNDERSTANDING ME CONTINUE DEVOTE

NEAR FULL-TINE

NANAGEMENT AND HANDLING ORMINE AND ORMANTLE PLUS

othere

SERVERS STATION

BE ASSIGNMENTS.

SILENAINS OFFSEAR

CONTINUED

SECRET

practin

that practing are

90: +430 7+4700000

SREPROOUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PRONISITIA

ДИТИВНТІКАТІНІ

Cop, tha

---

## Page 22

0R0:

UNIT,

MESSACE, FORM

SECRET

D INOIX

O NO INDIX

D INE IN CS ILE NO.

11117 8 17 4'CH

IF PERSONNEL

ROUTING

An earl as

10.

IROM DIRECTOR

COMPs

PAGE THO

TO

63360

4.

DISPATCH FOLLOWS ON QRMINE.

END OF MESSAGE

RH/POR

mantails 04

$

KH/BEF

DESMOND FITZGERALD

C/NHD

SECRET

RIPRODUCIION DY OTHER TIAN INE ISSUING ORNATTS PAOMIBITIO

Copy No

---

## Page 23

SECRET

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Finance Division

FROM

:Contract Personnel Division

SUBJECT

3. Contrace Extension fur

FrEDATO, TIPREONN

1. alloctiva 19 86071994

• the contract (a8

amended) for tha subfoce individual, effective 19 May 1908.

la entendod for a partoù of

sis (6) moadao

2. All other formo and conditires of the contract (as

amendodi remain in fuil forco and effact.

UNITED STATES GOVENNMENT

BY Contracting officer

et 122214964

Zi tedion

SECRET

Group 1. Excludar frum automatle dowageading Bu

declassificasion.

---

## Page 24

14-00000

13 May 1964

MEMORANDUM FOR: Contract Personnel Diviaion

SUBJECT

Edward G. TICHBORN

Please extend for a period of six (6) months

the present contract of Edward G. TICHBORN which

was due to expire on 18 May 1964.

= :

---

## Page 25

M°. Edward G. Tichborn

• Dear Mr. Tichborn:

Roferonco is made to your contract with the United Stater Govornment,

ao ropresented by the Contracting Oificer, affective 19 May 196l,

no amended

Effective 30 September 1963, said contract, a amended. lo further

amended by adding the following paragraph altor paragraph ten (iO) of said

contracti

"Ji. Health Insurance. You are hurein authortred to apply for

onrollinont in a healti, insurance program for cortain selected con-

tract individuals of this organization, aubject to all the terms and

conditione of that program. l'accepiod, thie organlcation will bear

that portion of your total premium cost which it lo authoriced to bear

for the original group of contract participante In sald program. you

will bear the remainder. Your financial contribution will be effectod

elther by payroll deduction or by direct remittance at periodie Intor

vala to be establishod by thia organization.

All other terma and conditlond of the contract, as amendod, romain

in full force and effact.

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

BY

Contracting Officer

'is ninet dived a did dad fishin

ded Deeded Brand then;

o one on.

---

## Page 26

14-00000

11r. Edward G. Ilchboru

Doar Mr. Tichbora:

Referenco la mado lo your contrace alth tão Unitod States Cuveranos,

an roprosented by the Contracting Officer, elloceiro 19 May 1961, au ainesdod.

.. Elfactivo 19 May 1963 sald contrace l6 extended for a portod al one (l)

goar, Ellectiro l Juno 1963 sold contrace as armendod, de furcher amondes

by the deletion lo ita entiroty of paragraph one () entilled "'Compensation"

and by subotituring in lou thoreat the followlag:

"1. Compensasion. Ia full considerallon dor the submianion of suca

Information and dervicas you will bo compondalod se followe:

(al Basle compensation da an amount calculated at tho salo of $9000

per andum.

(b) Addisional conpensation for quartore procuroment do an amount

calculaied at the rate ol $3000 per annum, ellectivo upón your arrival

and applicable only to your indial permanent post of acelgamare ovos..

soad. Quartors will not bo lurnished you nor will you accept quartors

provided by your covor facilily withour prior omondiment of this agred

roent."

Paymonta sill bo mada no directed by you la villing in o maanos accaptablo

Bo sho Goverment.

Monies pold you by the Governmont under this paragraph

conatura lacomo lor Fodoral tax purposas. You will bo adviona as to 880

moinod to bo collowed in reportlag and paying such laros, the method as wall!

as sno proceduros usad by shie organleation to insploront do sas reporting

respondlbilillas mill ao banod pilmarlly upon cover ani securty requiramantal

Yon herola authorião unia orgacization so altabol dañas on sido laconto 11 le

saiorralnos such saquirarnones do necessiata.

All otaos torno and conditiona of the contrace de amondod aracia la

luil force and efloc..

UNITED DIATES GOVERNHENT

ContracEing iiicor

---

## Page 27

14-00000

SECRET

1° Jin: 13'12

NOJECT:

It be tiguitar Chol Che cooterst,

is trended fur

for StRee anton

contrash dograt, ba Earther

to d,b00 per c2eo le compareded deed i,333

Connell sinis

catfort of lui dries as the sundati det ins

2.

train

c.4;

recited train.

'ci.

thalide tile deter

BEGRET

6207182n8 244

---

## Page 28

CLASSIFIEO MESSAGE

111

SECRET

ACTION:

INFO :

Xop 22 s/c 2

SECRET

212325z

1N9J0/1

DIR CITE MEXI

4670

2? MAY 1963

REF HMW 11362

IN 43671

1. STATION AGREES NAS EVALUATION TICKBORN AND CONCURS SALARY INCREASE

AND HOUSING ALLOWANCE AMENDMENT. ALSO AGREE INSURANCE RIGHTS SHOULD

BE INCLUDED CONTRACT:

2' BELIEVE RAISE SHOULD BE $1, 200 PER ANNUM WITH HOUSING AT

53. 909, WHICH TOTAL MEETS TICHBORN®S OWN REQUEST. THESE FIGURES

PROPOSED TO TICHBORN (WITHOUT COMMITMENT) 21 MAY AND ACCEPTABLE

TO HIM.

SECR

E

EXCLUDEO FROM AÚTCHATIC DOWN-

GRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION.

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER TRAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITED

at an at sternalist

---

## Page 29

SECRET

Nir. Edward G. Tichborn

Doar Mr. Tichborn:

Raference le made to your contract with the Undled States Govern-

ment, as represeniod by the Contracting Officer, ellective 19 May 1961.

To rectify in administrative oversight sald contrac: is amended

as of its effective date by revising paragraph two (2) entitled 'Travel and

Operational Expenses' to read as follows:

"2.. Travel and Operational Expensos. You will be

advanced or reimbursed funde on an actual, seasonable

and necoosary expense basie for those expenses Incurred

by, you in connection with such travel as may be diroctod

or authorized by the Government and while on temporary

duty away from your permanent post of assignment. In

addition, you will be advanced or reimbursed funds for

necessary operational expenals as specifically approved

by the Government. Payment and accounting for all

expenses incurred hereunder will be in gubatantial con..

formanco with applicable Governnent regulationg. '

All other sormo and conditions of the contract remain in full force

and offact.

UNITED STATES GOVERNKENT

EY

Contracing Officer

CAL 440 250010165

let chio

SECRET

---

## Page 30

11-00008

SECRET

20 March 1963

MINORANDUM FOR: Chief, Contract Personnel Division

SUBJECT:

Eitward 0. ITCHEORN (p), Contract Amendment

1. It la requested that the contract for Edward O. FICHBORN,

Cortract Agent, be amended to delete the current paragraph 2.

Travel and Operational Expenses and inserts

"2, Iraval and Overstional Expenses. You will be

advanced or reimbursed auids

on an actual, reasonable

and necessary expense basis for those expanses inourred

by you in connection with such travel snuay be directed

or authoriaed by the Gorerarent and while on temporary

duty away from your permanent post of assigment.

addition, you will be airaneed or reimbursed funds for

necesaary operational @gunses as specifically approved

expenses Incurred hercunder will be in substantial com

Loranco with applicable doverment regulations

The effective date of the sacruent should be as of the effective

date of the contract, 19 May 1501.

2.

The above request is correctivo in unture as it was not

intondod to change the tratel arpense provision which had been In

effect during his previous contract.

Note: Per WH/B&F no travel and

operational expense accountings have

Unter, ii Suppert

as yer been torwarded to FD.

Division and subject intended subject's old

travel and operational expense clause to be a part oi

the 19 May 1961 agreement. Check List

on this point.

Start in error

GR00 1

CoatS SAS 254

Saciatestical 12

---

## Page 31

...

13 July 1962

SENORINDU PORE CALOR POSSEIR

Contract Agent sootion

VIA!

contral Cover Division

ittentions

Edward O, TICHLOR (p)s

Mathod of Parment

do It 10 requestod that Financo Divisten Day

poosible.

sootion Too bot treated beta do one 282 as para y.

J. C. King

Chiot

Hostorn innia here Divialea

$:

+94394958771

---

## Page 32

SECRET

EMPLOYEE'S WITHHOLDING EXEMPTION CERTIFICATE AND QUESTIONMAIRE

LICILONY, Echard 0.

WITHHCLOIS:

ILEMPTIONS.

EVOSTLUNS. a•Do not clala nore

surrore nunder of promptions.

Re cate

withheld if you clan reory enempelon

tra abinet biteor or tate

• anallor number of cremelans.

Pillonso al ano lino

your are er:

* Bolos). a person (A) munt

you lor too yehen enchel,

Precept your child

during the your

"Dy such pe

person's husband

Undead Slates or

LETUASKS for ony ol the following rossons:

(or-husband) lor

her (or hio) om enemption

support of a degendent lor whom you

premelon do taken over

no longer osper? to furniah nose then hall the su

(e) You find that

o dependent for whoo you cl

nes and be a reader ol

related to you

pare durine the year (ererge

do not allect your

Fur furthee infoemaldon about changes

aune, nopher, of nlece (but only if

TIES. •Penalties aro

laloo informatton or molliul folluro

ormation which would pedues tha

and you claim'an cremption,

one premption ench for husband

wife

if not

claimed on

snother

hoth of thee exemptions,

one of these

(c) If you claim

noither of these exempsions.

for age and blindness (applicable

to depondents):

2l..

2

to you and your wife

or eldes

#. Il you claim excmations

depondents, write the

(Do not claim. exemption lor a deponient unlors you

under Instruction 3 above.)

5. Add thar number of exemocions shich vou have

claimed above and trite the

SOURCES 2F

TOICATE SOLACESS DE CACOUS

IR'CME

9 44*9

PASICATE COVER

PAY PERIOD

Chaos

nice declareo

VIA DOESNO GATE NEE MUCH

INDICATE

OF TALES AND ANNUNTISS DIPANELO PIN PAS PERSEST.

U.G.

TAXES 3

FOREIGY TAXES 3

TOECTANTITON ET TSTRUTTER SCORE TAX

11Ld0!

that the nunher of archholding reappsong claimed

not exceed the number to which 1 an entitied. and that

the inforastion relative

sources of income shoon iesean 1a correct.

7 17 869

2273. 313

SECRET

1 30 1

---

## Page 33

14-00000

COVERT AGREEMENT SUPPL ENT - INCOME AND FEDERAL TAX DA

*SUCC»" TICHBORN, EdUS No G.

TRIST

10 d r

3723

PART I COMPENSATION AND #TIMHOLDING DATA

SOURCES DA CONPINIATION PAYMENTS (EROeS DO

HIADQUARTENB

ANDUNT (POP BRAUM)

3 8, 000

B$8t3

LET CONSO PACILITY

CONTENSATION PATENTS BE SCHER FEELALTY

AMOURT SUBJECT TO TAN

•ERPLAIN ANI

UIIFEHENCES

UNDER

*RE -

"MARES "

BESMILO THE

AMOUNT

AND

fOrAL

Br GIVING TIrE

5F PAY

: (Allopareds,

=16.2.

REPRESENTEO

PAY PLRIOOS LISED BY COULD FACILITY

PAYMENTS TO DIGIO (DOlE)

ANCOME TAIER.

TAXES TO BE

AMOUNT WITHHELD PER DAY PERIDO

[MONTHLY

WITHHELO BY COVER FACILITY ENOM COUPENJATION

PaIn

IS SOCIAL SECURITY COICAS DITHMENO

•0R9189 .

HAME OF

COUNTRY

COMPENSATION SUAJECT-TO A FOREIGN TAX

COVER FACILITY

REPORT

COMPENSATION AS FOLLO

Boden)

WILL NOT REPORT

COVER FACILITY (CREPEORYN)

THE AGENCY HILL

REPORT COMPENSATION AS

TOLLONS (940

ET COVERT (16 covart only, onle

201/08. 1919 /104.)

NAME AÑO ADDRESS OF OSTENSIOLE IMPLOYER

do delor)

L Laden 1000

DECLARATION OF ESTIMATEO INCORE TEA (ChaCE andY

HAS GEEN FILED

HAS NOT DEEN FILED

PART 11

DEPENDENCY DATA

н0.

0F

FACILITY,

DEPENELO, INCLUDINO SELP. GLAMRO MITH COLLA

17.

10,

1050

MARITAL STATUS /Comple

MANnIED

DATE OF DEATH

20910010102

DaTE 08

THESER

I NOT APPLICAPLE

CLAIMS BU

SINGIE

"'April 19

954

CTTITINSHIP OF SPOURE

DIVORCEO

LEGALLY MARATIE

HISTORICE DO CROOSE (CONSTY)

14, DEPENDENTS

ELIGIOLE

TO BE

CLAINTO FOR

IN NUMBER OF

DEPENDENTS DECLARED ADOVE (U%1

anil

- Denghter

THEN OF DIATHE

2952

1955

~1957

CENSELE

D.3.

VaSo

13,

COUNIRY ME ACHIOTEN

Mailoo

1S. ALAARNS

APPROVAL OF CENTRAL COVER DIVISION

the employer's names and method:

reporting

coopensation slown: in Items

and/or 9, above are approved.

DATE

SIGNATURE AND TITLE

Leetin

PAFi LIFTINN CORRECI

t'or

6,

DATE

13 Jи2y16

DISTRIBUTION:

SIGNED O210

•AM 313.

•00

08906898 +06N8001 CONTIONE.

CERTITTES CORRECT

DATE

GOATURE OF TASTOGAL (POONDORY

(ant availabio)

FINANCE:

COPY: TO CENTRAL COVER: TORY - TO TILE

SECRET

1301

---

## Page 34

14-00000

(

DISPATCH

Chlaf, MID

SECRET

GAl + 95499-1 8709+4

HMCFT-2092

1*180

FROM

_allot of staton, tarloo City

JURIELI

S1 goed contract for Fouard G. TIMIDORN

Rеiн"л8X BEN234с0)

Sonas for Inforsation.

845-1981, 6 June 1963

BA!A

19 FOCK FOMET

MARRED TOR PIDERNO

NO INCUR RECURID

EVICTINO CAN BE AGED

BY QUAUTED NO DISE ONLY

No Returned hervelth la one copy of levard 0. TI II30Rl'e coutraot.

& Rogarding paragraph 1 of the contract, PiCHol otates that ho bam

already arrangod u1th Headquartere to ua1l Ala nalary chock fron & foundation

In miladalphia to bie banko

& TICHORN further statee that under hie previous contract he did not

Illo a covert den rotara and taxes vere not withheld.

According to TICHBORN

ho was told In Headquartera that KUBARN wouli depond on his to report Me KUBARK

Ineome as coalng from

land 1t would be Incorporated in

hla overe roturn. TICHBORI dons not tiah to gira a cupy of llo overt return to

KU MARR

5 20151961

3 = Hoa, 9/ate

• • Plea

C5Y 33

SECRET

---

## Page 35

Mr. Edward O. Tleabora

Dear Mr. Tlebbom:

Reforance to made lo your contract with the United States Government,

an repredented by the Contraching Ollicor, offectlve is Ourobor 195% 8s amended.

Ellectivo l8 May 1961, said contract le hereby terminatod by mutual consent of

¡the partlos hereto and in lou thereof the following la subatituted.

The United Stale Coverament, as reprosented by the Contracung Olfices

¡hereby contracta with you as an indepondent contractor for the submission of

l'cortaln Information and related corvices of a confidential nature undor the

following terma and conditions:

1. Compensation. In iull consideration lor the submianion of such lafor-

limation and services, you will be pald an amount calculated al the rate of

$8000 per annura.

Paymeste will be made as directed by you in writing la a

mannor acceptable to the Governmont. Monies paid you by the Goverment

under thie paragraph constitute income for Federal tax purposes. You will be

advised as to the method to be followed in reporting and paylag such rames. The

mothod as wall as the proceduros uood by thie organisation so imploment ite

lax roporting responsillities will be baded primarily upon cover and security

requiremonts. You bercis authorino this organization to withhold taxes on aald

Income if it detormlias such roguiremento no nocessitate.

2. Travel and Dorational Exponags. You will be advanced or reimbursed

furids Incurrod in connection with such operational travel as may bo direciod or

authorlead by tho Governinent, This may Includo per diom in lieu of subolatende

In the couroo of ouca travel and while on temporary duty away from your perma

¡nont poes of amalgameer. in addition, you will be advanced or roimbarsed lunda

for socesary oparational expensos ao specifically approved by the Goveramons!

¡Payment and accounting for all expeneds incarred herounder will 39 1n 233-

Banial conformanco vito applicable Government regulations.

3. Ropaymeni, a la recogalãad thar your failuro to account for or raluna

Jany montes advanced you doreunder ohail entitle the Coverament to withhold

¡itho total amount of auch indebiedness or any portion therao from any morieu

¡dua you undor the tomas in thia contract in such manhod id it deers appropri

1. Fuading. l recossary to protoct the docurity at this arrangeroent.

monies duo you borausser may bo funded in othor thai a diract manoer. it is

understood and agrosi sat any montos so lundod consitiuto payment by 230

Government in sattafaction of lse obligatioas under thie agreement.

• 5. Exocution il Documenta. Il, la tho performance of servicos under

chia contract, you socume the custody of Government junde or taio tills si

record ta property of asy auture waatsoever and whosovar alsuase, which prop-

lorsy has in fact been purchseed wiih monies of the u. S. Curemment, you

¡bareby rocognise and acinowiodgo the exoience of a truas relationuhly, either

¡oxpross or constructios, and you eg5oo to procute malever documonta ray do i

---

## Page 36

1d-0n0d

b. Matus.

• "You aro not an employee ul the United States Coveramens

under ible agreomont and aro not entitled to any bonellie normally ineident to

an simployee alaius.

7. Instructiong. Inatructions received by you from the Government in

→rfeling, trainiog ur olhoruise are a part ol thie contrace and are Incorporatod

herel, provided that such lostructione are not inconoistent with the terma

Phoroof.

B. Unauthorisad Commitrnouts. No promiods or commitmonto postala

dog to righta, privileges or beaellts olher shan thore onpressly atipulated in

Govars aha agreament or any amandment thereto easil be baadiog on tao

%

Secrecy. You will be roguired to seny lurever secret thia contract

and all information which you may obtain by reason hereo! (unless released in

writing by the Government from such obligation), with full knowledge that via.

Mallon of ouch secrecy may subject you to criminal provocution under the

Espionago Laws, dated 25 June 1948, so amendod, and other applicable lawa

and regulations.

Torm. This contract le ellective as of 19 May 196l, and shall con-

Binue thereafter for a period of two (2) years unless sooner terminated either:

(a) By thirty (30) days' actual nolice by either party bereto, or

b) Without prior notice by the Government, in the event of

proach of this contract oy your violation of the necurity pro-

vielonn hereof or by your otherwios recdering yourself

unavallable for accoptable sorvice.

¡subjoct to tho avallability of appropriationa, this agreamont may bo extondod

case you from tho doli

guarant of emurat on of the agreement to taco

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

BY

Contracting Dificer

lAcCEPTED:

Edward G. Tichborn

WITNESS:

APPROVED:

---

## Page 37

14-00000

SECRET

01818101

CONTRACT INFORMATION AND CHECK LIST

...71

WID

ТУРНИКТ YYTESTES

DATE

508:06.79

1. 101158

GE PAR FAL

PROJECT

J'OPLAR -10

SPATION

3.

AL10*884900.

A. ELOP NO.

TICHKEN, Eeward 0.

C-77119

rUApg

an one dada.

Contract Agent (Indspondant Contractor) Contrad signed

Basto salary $50.00 per. day.

IS TO BE BRITTEN

1O. FROPOSIO CATEGORY (COnTINCt aDAs.

SUBJECT'S NINE AND PERPURNED

contracte Agart

CACTICA 11

COTINGSHIP

United States

LOCAL

DIBORANCE ICIOT

PERSONAL DATA

INDIVIOUAL IDATERNA

NOT HANOINT ALIEN

18. 10€

18. 0618 09 DIRTH (MORIA, day. y000)

CUORINT NESIDENCE (Cle ond slato or country)

1%.

WADITAL STATUS (CROCO DO

80 8 948

MUMNE В ЦО

2] -1991°

0000+0

Don luding

indinidual)

С ПАРАТНО

99.

14011

RELATED TO A SPACE

AN IADIVIDUAL

caPLovad.

STAFF AGENT ON

CURRENTLY WORMINO PON THE AGENCY IN BOME

CAPACITY

2 Sons

- Bven 9, and Grogory 6 Jeara oldi

1. Daughter - Drisilla 3 yours old.

SECT 15, *5

U.S.

MILITARY SIAIUS

8*.

13.

BRAGON DE CINNACE

Arrive Medical Corpa

—06.010429

VETERAN

Yea

GRADE

28. GHART REIGTOLE

Staff Seryoant

COMPENCATIO

DIFEERCATIAL

20.60VF1 (Droottoon, 18 14x)

disability

28.

DRAFY DEFERMENT DOTAINEO

NA DE CIA LIVES

salon ca

88,000-0 рег ут.

30. FEDERAL

TAX HITHHOLDING

rOVER

1.Ao

N.1o

ALIURANCES (NORMALLY GRANTED OULY TO MESIDENTS OF THE UNITED STATES)

13.

OTHER

Sado; 8.10%

32.

Not.

h4, Crinda 1810849375.

i/ any)

F.A.

Commercial

TRAYS!

19. 11+33

TO SE SHIPPED

T73 49

10.

18 OBER BEPANDENYS

10 BE

STORED

I/40

36.

WiTH DEPENDINYS

57%s

-TANTONTO VOICEr TO ME

VEHICLE TO BE SAIRPIO (OS, USTONER ORATIONS FRANTL

name 300%0

Mode 1"o

AGE

AND BATE DE UTATH

FATHIAT

GICTIG*

$7.

207

#12404 +96-480969869 8874

241930019

* persin

AD. CATERTALAMINI

TO CONOMICI

EXPENSES

Erio outsido Marioo City.

SECRET

---

## Page 38

14-00000

SECRET

D0VI5109

CONTRACT INFORMATION AND CHECK LIST

(CONTINUED)

347 FF.

SEE JESTICTINOS OY FIRSP SHERT.

SECTION WILL

77•819.

20-620.

onelita

applicable

TELEPHONE CUTENSION

OTHER A:9:E11S

# 20-1000.

ANd T$ 20-620-1. HA 20-1000-3 AndiOr BUCCeSSOR regularione ToR

contract perdonnal. y

i.d.

SECTION IX

47.

#TATUS

(Chock)

4D.

TI COVIA PAYMENTS ARE CONTIMPLATED, THEY DILL

N. A.

BE AFFACTED ON RLIMBURSABLE

D4919

complere

SECTION *

50 .

OFF SET OF

INCOME AND OTHER SHOLUMENTS DERIVED

THOM COVER ACTIVITIES

SECTION XI

TERW

montre l 21

..Ae /19 May 1961

TERMINATION NOTICE (Number o1 doya)!

30 days r

SECTION XII

SO. PRIMARY FUNCTION '(CS, Fl, PP, osher)

Cole

SECTION XIT!

SI. GENERAL OESCAIPIION OP QUILLS TO BE PERFORMED

FUNCTION

DUTIES

IS COMMERCI

PARIAL

OYN8*

PON RESIGHATIUN PRIOR TO CONTRACT TERMINATION

SECTION XIV

58.

EXPERIENCE

QUALIFICATIONS

33. EDUCATION

Check Nights

Lovel derained

50: CANGUAGE CUNPETENCY

Appropriato

Desce paperoney,

w88016 3619301

9U99601

Iranear eNe degroeh--

LANGUAGE

SHITE

_Spaniab

Maxico; Latin Anerica.

SECTION

XY

ENCLOYMENS PRICO TO GIA

G3. GIVE

INCLUSIVE DATES, POSITION TITLE GA TYPE WORK, ¡ALIMY dIE REASOU TOR LEAVING

Subject is In privato lay practico.

INDIVIQUAL'S

COUMTAr OF

CHICiN

United States

1E917104A1 12:05927199

1B01T1S4A6 DO VAUSUAL RECUIRINENTE, RUSTIPICATTONS A ERPEDRATIDNS PURO VIROS SIDE IS DECOSIERTI

Fa18

23 May 1961

---

## Page 39

SECRET

22 May 1961

MEMORANDUS FORE COntEROE PAYTOLL DIVISION

SUBJECT:

Estrard do TICKEORN (P)

1o Please cancel Edvard do TICHBORN's present contract

effectivo an of her nay 1901.

cod / y

A new contrant los Subfect will be requested by the

Vl Divlalon in the immediato futuro.

12209 3:

SECRET

---

## Page 40

14-00000

SECRET

22 May 1961

MEMORAIDUM FORE ChlOS, Contract Parsonnel D1r18101

SUBJECT

3 New Contract for Edward O. TICHBORN (p)

C-77119

Preparation of a new contract for Subject 18 requuated, to bo draw.

up on the baste of the attached Contract Information Chock Ilot.

Western Hemisphere Division

---

## Page 41

ORIG

UNIl

KH/FO/S

EXT • 3503

DAIF • 82-22 MAY Z802

166%

TO • MINICO O11T

FROM, DIRECTOR

CONG, WH 5...

INFO, CA 2, CA/PRG, C1/0A,: OP 2, S/C 2

TO

INFO

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SSCRET

FOUTINO

22HY 61 27. 048

DEFERRED

IL

COUTINE

der 58, QUT58552

сте 01 4130911303.

LO RIHARD EÔ PICHBOR IDEA A SPARTED MAST 20 MAX FOR MISSE HIRE IS NCER SIE SPLOUD

RO TICHEORN HAS BRILY USED EX RUBART AS POLITICAL ADVISOR O ELECTION OPS.

FRIOR

DEPARTURE HAS DISCUSSED CONTRACI POSSIRILITXSS MITH HIM AND ADREED PRAPARE CORRACE MRICH

NIRL ER SENT MEXI NEAR FUTURE FOR SIGNATURE

BOS ASTICIIRILE USINO TICHEORN AS

PROVIDINO VARIAS JILA

STATIORS HITH

WILL ALSO USE HIN TO LEVELOP ZISAGRA CAMTOTATTS

VARIOUS COUNTRIES AND HAI APPOINS BIN PIRED ROY FOR DENHHARCO.

Io FICHORN MILE HAVE NO OPS RESPOISIRTLITIES MIXI UNLESS STARIUT SO FESUMES.

NICHEVER HE WOULD LIQUIRE BOYS COST AND AINTS SUPPOES WHEN OVENT GLANNIS UNSUITATE.

So POUCHINE PIOPOSIO CONTRACT AND MORE INSTAILS RE POSSIBUS USE IN ASAR FUTURE.

REQUEST STATION OFFICES USTHE NAIS

SALS TICIBORN AT NOTKE RUMITO, RETORNA

CY 29 MAY TO ESGABLINI INUTIAL COPTACE, AFTIAPTINO HAVE CONTRACT NEST BE JAS PIE.

AND 00' NS5105

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy Ate.

w.

---

## Page 42

S-E-C-R-I-T

Mr. Edward O. Tichborn

Dear Mr. Tichborn:

Reference la made to your contract with the Unilod Statee Governmont,

ao reprosented by the Contracting Officer, effective 15 October 1959, as

amended.

Elloctive 23 F'ebruary 1961, tho firat sentence of paragraph one (l), '*

entitled "Compensation," la suspended and in lleu thereof le subatituted the

followings

"In full conalderation for your undertaking a task, the subject'

matter and scope of which have been made known to you, you will

be pald a lee in tho amount of $ 1000. 00. Payment of sald

10o will be made you upon the succossful complotion of the task,

after which the euspended portion of paragraph one (l) shall once

All other terms and conditione of the contract, as amended, remal.

Is full force and effect.

You will please indicate your approval by aigning in the space provided

below.

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

DY.

Contracting Gificer

ACCEPTED:

Edward G. Fichbors

WITNESS:

APPROVED:

LONE 11C 8301160

S-E-C-R-E-T

---

## Page 43

14-00000

SIST

3 March 1961

NEMORANDUN FOR: Contreet Personnol Division

SUBJECT:

Contract Amendment 12 for Edward O. TICHBORN (P)

1. Contraot amendment 12 10 requested for Edward Q. TICHBORN

using the sane soneral forat an used in the firat amendment excepting

that Subjeot will rocoive the entiro fee upon completion of the task.

It is roquestod that the amount of the foe be loft blank. Your offico

will bo notified as to the correct figura as 800n no 1t 10 deternined.

2e The amondment 10 to be offective as of 23 February 1961.

The figure $10wd is your Bice

Suchael 80ha261

edd

STET

---

## Page 44

14-0000

9 Sabruary 1060

MIRALIA FOR DIE BROT

CUDJITs Earrd 6. Echbor (P) - Innia

On 1 Pomary Stiarl G. Ichlom sarsead no that in littles

11e haz sut of a tori en llo retur trip ira cute, be suddonly felt

a gain in the brot sad 50 airail that do bad a barta.

Ro Cia tho veg to Rue 8972os9 h0 auer no le there vould bo any

chanca co tha tomasat piuras up bile nestonl pennas 11 to ericit

that he sotally bal e lands rates require uly susatestini treatani.

poolie mah , ma met 1 vid cueck into tus matter and lot him

espininot the cisamiraces to '22.

3hat an ass no the yorrisions of his contores voro concorami, it has

Bet In su 200001t nisill sail ta Pleasara to do

Sotus sorizos for va

is 1st share in was being well, at to toute

TalEs Unla nitre 290a2n 57 29 S0021a3 Was he would sata 1o

Winstaling. I Aid the facts a care - Not the.

destination pepen sa

employ.ce

Tears in the

slated t

---

## Page 45

I ahould podst out to Pichbom tunt va vare under no obligation 8e

rocorponse bls for his lajury, horover, that upen the acupletion of

restant I ho vould salt a elain, ve should be glad to ruview

18 syrpsthetsoally

So I panoed the siot el the above en t0 richboan on 9 February.

Politier! Astion Diviates

EWD: b,12

Distribut lani

..% - 354/002

2e chao

•=..

---

## Page 46

Doar lar. Flchborn:

P. gloranca la mado to an ayrooment by and belwaan yoursell and the

Untoi 50t01 Govornmont, ao ropresoniod by tho Contracung Clicor ellectie

16 October 1939.

Ellective 13 January 1969, the (rot sontenco of paragraph ono (l)

ontilled "Compensation," la suspended and in liou thoreot la subotituted lhe

following:

"In full coneldoration 1or the undertaklag by you of a task. the aubject

a110r and acope of walch has or will be mado kaown lo you, you will

bo pald o loo al $1300. It 1o undersrood and agreed that nald leo la baged

apon the tact that the completion of the specilied taok can be achlovod

withla a 21-day period. One-hall of sald doe may ho advanced you as

of the elloctive data of this amendment. Upon the auccedalul completion

of the Bach, you will bo pald the remaining one-hall, after which the

suopended portion of paragraph one (l) chall once again susume full

forco and eflect."

All othor termo and conditiona ul the agroement. as amended, zonain in

full lorce and olfect.

Tou will pleado indicate your approval by signing la the space providod

bolome

UNITED STATES GÜ VERNMENT

BY

Contracting Cilicas

ACCEPTEDI

Edward C. Tichtorn

APPPQVED:

---

## Page 47

4-00001

aust sette is tie to send i as

8 January 1960

MENSORAIDUM FOR:

Contract Personnel Division

ATTENTION:

SUBJECT:

Contract sacadment fox Bavard G. IIchborn (P)

Political Action Diviaion

SECRET

---

## Page 48

SECRET

Ar. kaward li. dichborn

Dear Me. Tichhurn:

Jho Untai Meates Governmeng, do coprodortea by she Lentral intellegenco

Agency, heraby cureracta » th you as an indopon-dol contractor íor the sub-

mionion uá cortain inior.ation and rolatod aorvicus v: a contential naturo

under she dollowin, lorina and condstauro:

1. Comporsation. In fuli consideration lor the aubalasion of such

i Information nao serviced yuu will bo compousalad, on a due baoid, at the rato

" o1 $50.90 per day or dry fractión Shoracá during wail yuur dervices are uniised

herounder, nus lo exceod 3265 por woek. Fay. unia will be inade as directod !

by you la writas in a inanner accoptable lo ClA. No taros will be withheld

thereiron, buf it will bo your rosponsibility lo report ouch lacorno undar

existiny i ederal incone lan lawa and regulationa.

An approptial і or: 1999

will be furnished by the Contral Intolligence Agency in furtherance oi the las

roporting requirence.

Travel and Uperatical ixponogs. You will bu advanced or roi nburseu

fundo on an actual, raasonabio and neccabary expenso baala fut tboad esperas

Incurred by you in connaction with such operationai travei as nay bo diracted

or authoried by the Cuvorn nent and wbile un temporary duty away from your

per nanont pust of addigation; In addition, you will bo sivanced un soin-

burgod sunde lur necesoddy operational openses au spousically approved by

C1n. Egynent and accuting lor all expenses incurrad hereundor will bo in

subatantual contornance with applicable Govera dent ragulations.

3.

29239:9005

" la rocooninud that your tailure is accouse dur ve rofund

any nonios advanced you herouaier alist! entitle CiA to mithhoto the tota!

a nougi vi such indehledrose ur any porton thargod iron any aunied is you

uncias tha torns si tais contract in buch mannet as it dinard appruptiate.

Laecution di Deconoble lo, in to portuganco d services ander

this custraci,

yuu abando the chaddy o1 Coryearnerd suards oo lake fillo

sured to proporiya aoy nature zaataoever onu whoadvos stain, wbich

properly has in jaci boon purced with nones vi the U, d. Lovasaiani, yuu

beroby rocognizo and acinovodge the existence si a truai selatonado, aisor.

espiods os condirullive, and yuu dates do enceure whatever does realo noy

no required by ino Lovedanor to evidonce this robatonci.

So Daina. You dro no one palayee do le boited diatos Luroraciona

6. Secrecy junwil to roguired in bee, lurever drese loss contract and

all anor naison which sou may volgia by reador hared! furios soleaded in

malaion di such secrocy nay sabject yue to trimam prodedation encor tha

in lies.

---

## Page 49

SECRET

7. inatructiono. instructiuna socorroo by you iron cia in brioling,

training ur othoruso Aro a carl di thia contrace and aro incre orated herein.

providad thal ouch nutructions are und ascungistan with the cor ca berael.

8. Uniuthorso Canaissoria. No pr. 8i000 ii com nie norte portaining:

;du righta, priviopes un bonello vihor than thoue vigrosaly stipulalod in

arilo, in this Baruasent us any a nona rent chorulo ahall ba biring on the

Govorn sent.

9. Jorm. This cuntrace la olfectiva de oi 15 vedobor 1431, and oball

continuo eberealtor for a poriod of tuo (2) geara unleos aooner torilaatod

a.ther:

(a) By Pirty (39) dayo' actual nulico by olther parly boroso, or

(D) Wilboul prior nutico by ClA, in the avent ul a broach of thia contract

ay your violation ol the security pruvieions horeud us by your otherwies

rendorin, yoursell uravailablo for acceptable sorvico.

usjocs to the availabilley ol appropriatione, thie agroomone may bo extendo

yon notico leom ClA. Tornallon ol lhia agroononi will not soloade you iro:

tha obligationo of any security wath you nay be roquired lu tako.

CENTRAL TALLIGENCE AGENCY:

vacial Contractin+4.114g

ACCENTED:

WIT VIGOR

АГЛЙСУС:

---

## Page 50

SECRET

CONTRACT INFORMATION AND CHECK LIST

Tro Repae?

prod

Te ortobar 1959

д. 860r 80.

Kdward 0. Tichborn

SOLACTEAL

PERDAREAP BIATION

92100-91-579

IS PRESENTAY

18 9008

alary,

MAS 881O C8BEEEВ

NA

PoA, Li May 1959 - da panding

r.e.. "u.8.

=..

10.

conerac?

endente

o1e.)

Contract agent

SECTION II

1&N$9$₽

US

PERSOGAL DATA

IDUAL IS@ PENSANENT

(MonIA, day. roar)

MANITAL

#PATUB (ChOCA

_0190969

Or DEPENOENTE (NOS dne dadana indiradual,

ДРІОНДНІФ

#G1

ARAULLIO

IBERABACAD

INDIVIDUAL DO DELATÃO TO A STATE EMPLOTÉA. ATAÚS

AGERY.Os

da #

INDIVIDUAL

PALACION SATES

2 sona, 7 and 4 years old.

1 daughter, 1 year old.

SECTION

u.s.

VETERAN

Yea

RANK

GRADE

Star$

sgt.

MILITARY STATUS

82.

'is

AIWy

Mod. Carp:

SECTION

BATIE SALADY

29.

DRAFT ELIDINLE

909 -9

COUPENSATIEN

:0.

POST

DIFFERLATIAL

18 any)

a core

$50,00 por dey

64A89189

NA

ALLORANCES ISORUILIT GRAYTED DELE TO RESIDENTS OF TE LIMITED STATES!

905t

Ja. O1MER

NA

sl any)

TRAVÉ:

Da-:

1/81:.1

at & TH

---

## Page 51

14-00000

Ри9911

CONTRACT INFORMATION AND CHECK LIST

(CONTINUEO)

ALPIRA PINI

•11o19'.

101018129

10808111

BUCTION 18

COrpo t1117

X..0.....

COVIE PAYUANTO ARE COATIUPLATEO

SPPECTED ME DEINAUNSABLE HASTS

SECT+ 04

4о.

OBESET CAN

19680219

OP INCOMA AND OTHEN ETOLUNLATA DE

Olfactod

SACTION

15 Outober 1952

#$-0000819498 S

PEGURA TRAVEL POR REDIGRATINA PAIOR TO COMTRACT TENUIMATIOI

30 day

S1C11ON.501

SO, POIAMY PUNCTION (PI, PP. Ores)

PERCTIC

PP

BUCTION. X111

B1' DEMERAL

PTION OF DUTIES TO BE PERFONED

Subjeot i1l1 consult and advios e politioal tochniques.

CECTION XIV

КАРЕВІНАСЕ

QUALISICEEINE

=D. EDUCATION

Leval Afiadade

LARGILAGE CONPUTEYCY

A DRENAGE

Spand ah

AMONLADVE

LENTICA DE

I08 ANO SAL

C00=2,51

'Maxico, Istia Amerles

PRIOR ESLOVENT

subject le 10 privato lar practico.

ILB

COLATHY 0F 891610

x

1GH0N21

#OD: 91049198194869616001989.

Fi98, 816980i03 50

HA

8/153

SECRET

---

