# 104-10074-10337

## Page 1

104-10074-10337

• UNCLASSIFIED

RNAL

ONLY

CONF

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

NTIAL

SECRET

SUBJECT: (Optionol)

FROM:

Chief, CI/SO Richard Ober

TO: /Officer designation, room number, and

building)

DATE

RECEIVED

EXTENSION

5847

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

FORWARDED

2.

3.

NO.

B- 2219

DATE

1 6 NOV 1970

COMMENTS (Number eoch comment to show from whom

so whom.

Drav a line across column ofter each comment.)

61/30 adornal ose omy.

This memo is not to be

disseminated outside CI/SO

without prior permission from

Chief, CI/SO.

Originated by: CI/SO: 03

Based on:

or 16 October 1970418

Source: < SAC/3 unilateral

Dissem

to FBI (Mr. Wannall)

via CI/SO courier on 1 6 NOV 1970

ACTION:

9.

10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

13.

rile:!

SAC/30Sens kj

PROD

SAC

PROD

T6- 20

10626

610*72c0s1

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECRET

TONGON DISSEMIRO LANGEL AEROAD

B-2219

1 6 NOV 1970

SUBJECT: Sigmund EISENSCHER (NL) /

1.

A sensitive source has reported that one

EISENCHER of the

Communist Party of the United States

of America (CPUSA), his wife, and one Leon LNU were

vacationing in Sochi, U.S.S.R., during August-September

1970. : (Comment: EISENCHER is probably identical with

EISENSCHER) •" Leon LNU. is probably identical with Leon

LOVE Bureau file number 101-5112).

2:

According to EISENSCHER the CPUSA has close to

14,000

members, the majority of whom are laborers.

Over 25 percent of the members are blacks who function

basically in the North American black movement.

The

Party has recently organized a young Communist movement.

(Comment: This is probably the Young Workers Liberation

League.). The CPUSA participates heavily in the labor

movement. At a recent (unnamed) labor meeting of repre-

sentatives from various regions of the United States, the

CPUSA had direct influence in 26 of the 50 unions repre-

sented.

The magazine Labor Party plays an important role

in coordinating movements within the labor ranks. Despite

numerous barriers (sic), the CPUSA is concentrating its

efforts in Chicago, Los

Angeles, and New York, as well as

The CPUSA has recently

(Comment: The indication here is that the Party did not

previously have a unified approach.)

3. EISENSCHER stated that criticisms of the Soviet

Union by the radical left Maoists, Fidelists, and Trot-

skyites cause problems, but they appear to have abated

somewhat.

There has been a warming in the relations

between

the CPUSA and the Communist Party of Cuba as

NO FONZION DISSOLATO DISCEN ABROAD

Excland ear Waleral:

---

## Page 3

14-00000

SECRET

NO FORETOM DISSEZA/NO BISSCH ABSCI

%.

result of CPUSA National Chairman Henry WINSTON's

trip

to Cuba following the June 1969 World Conference of

Comnunist Parties

While in Cuba, WINSTON conversed

with Fidel CASTRO/and other Cuban leaders.

4.Leon LNU gave the following instructions to one

individual for future contact in the United States, if

at the New York Public Library. (Comment: Our records

742

St. Nicholas Avenue, New York, New York,

and 368-9913

is the phone number

of the Benjamin Davis Bookshop

2529 8th Avenue

New York.)

Please transmit reply via CACTUS channel

Originated br: Cl SO:

jm]

02

Based on:

419, 16 Oct 70 filed ADSAC/3 sens

Source:

SAC/3" (unilateral)

Distributión:

Original - FBI (Mr

Wannall) via CI/SO courier

B-memo chrono

extra copy file

SAC/3 sens kj

oz:

no Fended

---

