# 104-10166-10176

## Page 1

104-10166-10176

03

04160

TOTAL CODIEN

I/SECRET

HERB A 6886

EXT:

4178

DATE :

23 Fes 1966

D INDEE

O NO INOEN

O PLA IN CA FILE NO.

2

6

Hist

TO $

FEDERAL SUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

UMO VA. PILE I RID COPY C1/OPS, F/04, FEL

TO

00FO

CITE Du

82545.

FOREIGN DISSEM

• SUBJECT: GEORGE DE NOHRENSCHILDT

I REFERENCE IS NADE I TO OUR CSCI-316/01772-65 DATED A MAY 1965

CONCERVING SUBJECT. FURTTER INFORSATION RECEIVED BY A REPRESENTATIVE

OF THIS AGENCY INDICATES THAT MOHRENSCHILDT INTENDS TO LEAVE HAITI:

FOR THE UNITED STATES TONARDS THE END OF FEBRUARY OR EARLY MARCH 1966.

SUBJECT STATED THAT HIS ORIGINAL CONTRACT NITH THE GOVERNMENT OF HAITI

(GOH) ME HAD FALLEN THROUGH AND THAT THE GOH OWED HIM $100,000..

SUBJECT ADDED THAT HIB PLANNED TO SPEND SEX WEEKS OR SO IN THE UNITED

STATES AND THEN RETURN TO HAITI NITHOUT HIS WIFE TO TRY TO ARRAYGE TO

RECEIVE HIS BACK PAY IN THE FORY OF REAL ESTATE, PREFERABLY PROPERTY

• ON THE COAST NITH TOURIST/COMMERCIAL POTENTINL..

. Bo

MOHRENSCHILDT"S CLOSE CONTACT IN HAITI IS STILL MLODZIMIER?

GALICKI, THE POLISH COMMERCIAL REPRESENTATIVE IN HAITI. ONE HAITIAY

MERCHANT ACCUSED GALICKE OF USING SUBJECT TO WIDER HIS CONTACTS IN TIB

*GOH• SUBJECT HAS ALSO BBEN ON CLOSE TERMS WITH NICOLAS I. ROUDE, A

SUSPECTED SOVIET AGENT. SUBJECT AND HIS WIFE ARE GREGARIOUS AND HAVE

MADE MANY CONTACTS IN HAITI.

"PREVIOUS INFORMATION ON WLODZIMIERZ GALICKI HAS BEEN MADE

DIR 82645 (23/2/66)

TO FRI LATEST INFO

BOORBIRATIN OFFICI

SECR•BT

OM BY OTHIN THAN THE ISSUING

ni dist

RETURN TO CLA

Background Use Only

Do Nol Reproduce

---

