104-10431-10062)
is 4 BRC, Lahdioe hea ;
_CLASSIFIED MESSAGE x. “PR eel | E
ROUTING

141
1S]
16

q wie

fe] + DIRECTOR

= ACTION: SK 7 ie

nro iWE ay c/o Ps, aye ere cise. : : 7 noe -

SECRET 1714202 i aes
DIR CITE 2681 fy.

REDWOOD

REF(_ 2667 (Ga we $087)

1. AT. INVITATION OF FELIX DMITREYEVICH KARASEV oi- “7369919,

it Sensln7 5963

CLASTONBURY AND NEW AMERICAN VICE CONSUL HARRISON SHERWOOD -HaD
LUNCH WITH KARASEV AND VIKTOR VLAD IMIROVICH TARATUNKIN (261-338231)
ON 14 SEPT... DATE OBVIOUSLY SET UP TO FEEL out SHERWOOD, WHO SPOKE
FINNISH WITH TARATUNKIN, THEIR ONLY COMMON LANGUAGE .

2. KARA SEV PROPOSED HE AND CLASTONBURY 60 ON A “DU” CINFORMAL YOU)
BASIS, WE ACCEPTED AND FOLLOWED THROUGH WITH TARATUNKIN. “SHERWOOD :
PROPOSED SIMILAR TREATMENT. AND WAS NOT REFUSED THIS “HONOR”, ALTHOUGH
IT APPEARED SOVTS WERE NOT PREPARED FOR THIS.

Se CLASTONBURY ‘MADE TWO WAGERS ON THE OLYMPIC GAMES WITH ‘ABOVE
SOVIETS WHICH WILL NECESSITATE TWO DRINKING PARTIES, A THIRD
PARTY IS EXPECTED WITH BIRTH OF TARATUNKIN’S CHILD IN NOVEHBER.

4. KARASEV SAID HE GOING ON. HOME LEAVE TQ SOCHI FOR ONE “yout
ON 19 SEPT THUS CORROBORATING HIS WIFE'S REMARKS REPORTED IN REF.
IN QUIET CONVERSATION, NOT OVERHEARD BY TARATUNKIN, KARASEV STARTED

OLB) “INN MeAeY VIO 203

15 on Jequiny yweuncog

TO TELL us “ABOUT HIS FEELINGS oN FRIENDLY RELATIONS. REMARKED THAT

IT WAS UNFORTUNATE TSAR NICHOLAS Il cour
~~ NOT KEEP UP WITH ae

SoS “SECRET

icant REPRODUCTION BY .OQTHFR THAN THF ISSUING OFFICE I¢ ponwiarren Canwe Na


13-00000

vee oauitised File &
- Number

FOr Ete Hy REGGE NS ocumlat. SECRET

AND. THEREBY: SET RUSSIA BACK FOR MANY YEARS. WE AGREED NICHOLAS
HAD. BEEN. A“ FOOL, THEREBY REMOVING ANY MONARCHIST CONSIDERATIONS
HE MAY HAVE HAD apour US, AND ENCOURAGED HIM TO PROCEED. aN APPRE-
" etaTIvE. WORDS KARASEV. PRAISED AMERICA'S HELP IN THE THIRTIES

» WHICH. PUT, THE ‘USSR. ON ITS FEET, HOPED THAT SIMILAR COOPERATION»

» COULD Now BE ENGINEERED TO HELP THEM WITH THEIR PRESENT DAY ECONOMIC
DIFFICULTIES. CONTRARY REMARKS. OF MANY PEOPLE, KARASEV SAID, - =
"HE REALIZED THEIR AUTO ‘INDUSTRY, FOR EXAMPLE, COULD NOT BEGIN TO
COMPETE WITH OURS AND MANY EVERY Day ITEMS WE ENJOY ARE LUXURIES
“To THEM. “WISHED NO'MAR WOULD COME BETWEEN US SO THEY COULD

WORK AT BETTERING THEIR ‘LIVING STANDARD. WE REPLIED WE APPRECIATED
HIS VIEWS BUT COULD NOT. UNDERSTAND WHY USSR CONTINUES ITS ANTI

_ AMERICAN PROPAGANDA IF THEY TRULY DESIRE OUR SYMPATHY. AND HELP.

“|. KARASEV SAID THAT.THIS NOT TRUE. THEY NOT WAGING PROPAGANDA WAR

' WITH US. . SO ENDED OUR FRAGMENTARY CONVERSATION ON THIS TOPIC.

5. TARATUNKIN BROUGHT UP OUR "PROVOCAT TON" IN TONKIN BAY.

SHERVOOD OUTLINED OUR POSITION.
6. KARASEV DISCUSSED OSWALD CASE AND ASKED OUR OPINION. WE
“sa ID THAT WARREN COMMISSION*S REPORT WOULD SOON BE OUT WITH ALL THE

FACTS, ‘BUT PERSONALLY WE HAD SOME RESERVATIONS AS TO WHAT REALLY
HAPPENED ‘TO OSWALD DURING HIS STAY IN THE USSR. KARASEV. CAUGHT
_ THE IMPLICATION AND.REPLIED THAT THIS WOULD HAVE BEEN POSSIBLE. IF
OSWALD HAD BEEN IN. CHINA BUT NOT IN THE SOVIET UNION, HE SAID
“- OSWALD HAD ONLY BEEN A DILETTANTE IN MINSK AND APPARENTLY HAD SONE
i EME whriicr«
OTHER WOMEN THERE BEFORA-S—.-448EB. KARASEV THEN SAID HE COULD

“NOT HELP BUT BELIEVE THAT RUBY WAS TOOL OF “REACT IONARY FORCES”.



13-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE | SECRET In_28 763 pace 3

ND COULD NoT SEE HOW IT couLD HAVE BEEN POSSIBLE FOR RUBY TO HAVE
| SHOT OSWALD WITHOUT ASSISTANCE OF SOME U. S. OFFICIALS. WE TRIED. .”

| DEGUNK THIS IMPRESSION, BUT KARASEV HELD TO HIS VIEWS.
SECRET oe : ee ea ~

WFO OM ACT WITHES AT PARTY,
#7 tee :

A
:

SECRET


13-00000

: ce
Z.

Sy PE

Comin RE ca

= weet = el fu prrbhrged

irene Repeat & Cssah nek J pel bas
nally om |

9 dhed vole

ee ie Go3 * sai be teak, ©

Dafoe
LL

