404-10103-10110)

CLASSIFICATION

No iRODKiNG eEQuiRcD
Rey goa

tsk
aN Ju0CE_INDDING

Chief of Station, JMWAVE |
a TYPIC Operational
seu TYPIC Opevationa

“ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

Action Required: For your,

References: A, UFGW-2601, 16 October 1963

B. UFGW-3377, 16 March 1964

Forwarded as a separate attachment is a review of Subject
case which sets forth the extra curricular activities of Subject,
which appear to be incompatible with his position as an OBYOKE
employee,

2, Subject case leads to no definite conclu: dons regarding

any RIS affiliation, though we feel tha
. bear watching in this connection ere does, however, appear

to be sone evidence that Subject may be using his position with

local QKFLOWAGE to assist exile groups and for personal finaneval

gain, If he is a paid stringer for the New York Times, as our
information indicates, and, if he has been providing information
to both the Times and to JURE based on his access to QKFLOWAGE
materials and contacts, then it would appear that an early
inquiry into his activities by QKFLOWAGE Headquarters is in-
dicated. As pointed out in the attachment, both the local
QKFLOWAGE and ODACID representatives have expressed certain
-teservations and misgivings concerning Subject's activities to
the COS, JMWAVE. Under such circumstances, Headquarters may wish
to bring certain portions of the attachment to the attention of
QKFLOWAGE for appropriate action,

Attachment: 1
Under Separa Cover

SCA ates,

Sr eee €3 copy

=.DC,, WH/SA w/att, usc
yet

ATE Fre DATE DSPATONED.
20 Aug 1964} AUG 24 1154

ny
~ feee ly ca
at SE TESTOR
' UFGA-17410

HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBER

4 = 201-352252



aaa : oe : i : a ~ {7
o | SECRET fol

Separate Cover Attachment to UFGA-17410

sen. |

. S Odea
SUBJECT: Jorge VOLSKY aka Jerzy Stakistaw AJBUSZYC aka\ Chico .

1.. Introduction

an citizen of Polish origin, now a permanent
U.S, resident, who is currently employed by the office in Miami

as editor of the USIA Weekly Report on Cuban Developments. VOLSKY
came to the attention of JMWAVE because of his extra-curricular
activities which appear to be incompatible with his position as an
employee of the U.S. Government. A conflict of interests appears to
have developed in VOLSKY's case as a result of his position in the

USIA office in Miami, his access to various high-level Cuban refugees,
his close association with prominent American journalists. (ole-of rad
whom had an entree to high members of the Kennedy Administration), 1°" \¢
and his involvement in propaganda activities for both the JURE a and 4gV
the "UR Counterrevolutionary groups. Analysis shows that he has used *
his USIA position to obtain information for a leftist political

group, has engaged in anti-US propaganda campaigns for it, and may

be guilty of. duplicity in his dealings with KUBARK. VOLSKY is a

Cuban citizen of Polish origin whose background includes a two or,
three_ve i Russ: ison _c: Because of this back-
ground and the nature of his present political activities, the
following compilation and analysis of the material currently avail-
able to JMWAVE concerning VOLSKY are deemed necessary and are hereby

presented as a prerequisite to the determination of the future
course of action to be taken by KUBARK in this case.

2.) Original JMWAVE Operational Interest in Subject

a. Jorge VOLSKY first became of interest to KUBARK in February
1963 when it was learned that he was the gource of an anti-~CASTRO
plan known as Operational Leonardo designed to spli e Cuban
Regime by the recruitment of certain elements of the Rebel Army and
Militia in the GOC. This plan had been presented to ODACID through

Tad SZULC, editorial writer of the New York Times Washington Office,
and ODACID sent it for action to KUBARK Headquarters.

b, The disclosure of Jorge VOLSKY as the originator of Operation
Leonardo came about when a KUBARK case officer contacted SZULC at
his home in Washington concerning the plan. SZULC was reluctant at
first to reveal the name of the author but did so when the case
officer pointed out that it was necessary for KUBARK to talk to the
source in order to clear up various points. SZULC, stating that he
would rely on KUBARK's discretion to safeguard the identity of his
source, named Jorge VOLSKY of the USIA in Miami. SZULC related:a

«short biographic sketch of VOLSKY in which it was revealed that
during. World War II, VOLSKY, a Pole, had been a prisoner of war in
Russia. .

c. At Headquarters' request JMWAVE contacted Jorge VOLSKY and
made arrangements to sponsor his plan which involved Cuban infil-
tration/exfiltration ops. It was the intention of KUBARK to use
VOLSKY only as a-funding channel for the operation; however, because
of the'Station's belief that the operation's team would inform
VOLSKY in detail about operational matters, a POA was requested on
him. A request was also made that Headquarters check on VOLSKY's
activities prior to his arrival in Cuba. ‘Locally the AMOTs were
requested to provide information on Subject's activities in Cuba.

3. Polish Background Prior to Cuba

Using the information subsequently made available to the Station
by Subject in his PRQ Part I, submitted to JMWAVE March 1963 and. the
Headquarters .trace reply (Reference A) which includes information
contained in Royal Air Force and Polish exile records in London and
information on Subject recently solicited from various JMWAVE assets,

Gen. Fo 19 Tab. 77 Ome
Dear. Weer? SFCRFT me Aeriwk—t


1S


SECRET . :

the following is an account and analysis of Subject's life up to his
entrance into Cuba in November 1947."
4 .

a.. In his PRQ Part I Subject lists his full name as Jorge
Stakistaw Ajbuszyc VOLSKY Kraisler, born 8 March 1921 in Warsaw,
Poland. He lists his parents as Josef,A. VOLSKY Zascycki, an
engineer, ‘and Maria, KRAISLER Madeirka, a medical doctor, both
deceased.

b. (Education) VOLSKY's PRQ states that his education consists
of high school attended in Krakow from 1930 to 1938 and one year of
medical school at a University in Krakow.

(1) _ USIA records (information supplied by Subject) agree
with the above, showing that he attended the St. Ania Lyceum in
Krakow from 1930 to 1938 and the Jagiellon University in Krakow from
1938 to 1939.

(2) The Headquarters trace reply which included a London
Station check of the Royal Air Force and Polish exile World War II
records, however, did not mention his attendance at the Jagiellon
University, stating only that Subject matriculated in 1939 in the
St. Staszic Humanistic College in Chrzanow. (WAVE comment: Chrzanow
is West Krakow, 27 miles WNW of Krakow.)

c,. World War “II Service

(1) VOLSKY claims in his PRQ that during the years 1939
i i Serial number
705740, rank: Officer - Cadet, Private Flight Sergeant. Ina
different section of the PRQ he also states that he was a Prisoner
of.war in Russia (1939 to 1941). This is an obvious contradiction
within the PRQ itself that requires clarification.

(2) The RAF and Polish exile check (Reference A) mentioned
above confirmed service in the Royal Air Force for a person with the
name of Jerzy Stanislaw AJBUSZYC (the first three names of Subject)
DOB: 8 March 1921, Serial number 705740 with rank: Leading Air-
craftman Radio Telephone Operator. This record which is obviously
that of Subject showed that on 19 June 1942, while in the USSR, he
enrolled in the Polish Army Service where he served for one year
until 30 June 1943 and then enlisted in the Polish Air Force Service
under the British Operational Command on 1 July 1943 and served until
27 July 1947 when he was discharged at his own request and emigrated
to Ecuador. The Polish exile representative further noted in
Reference A that in 1942 the Soviets had attempted to subvert some
of the young Poles who were recruited at that time in the USSR for
-Polish- Army Service and that such might have been the case with
, Subject :

(3) (JMWAVE Analysis) It is. interesting to note that
Subject's PRQ and USIA records which stated he was in the RAF from
1939 to'1947 do not agree with his official RAF records which show
that he did not enroll in the RAF until 1 July 1943. The RAF records
also show that he had enrolled one year earlier (19 June 1942) in
the Polish Army Service in the USSR and served in it for a full year
before joining the RAF. However, even allowing the year 1942 as his
service induction date into the RAF, there is a discrepancy in what
he reports in his PRQ (1939) and what the RAF record shows (1942).

It is possible that he has.falsely reported the date of his induction
into the RAF in his PRQ in order to cover up his activities during
that period (1939-1942). This was a period of time when great numbers
of Polish prisoners of war were shot by the Soviet It_is

It_is possible.
that Subject may have been subjected to-RIS recruitment attempts
guring this period.

d. (Name Change) In the referenced RAF and Polish exile check,
it was noted that the Polish exile liaison representative, while
searching: the record for a Jorge VOLSKY, had found a record for one

SECRET



/¢


‘SECRET en

Jerzy VOLSKY (i.e. Jorge VOLSKY) who was born in 1917 and killed in
action in 1941 and speculated that Subject might have assumed the name
of this mant
oo

(1) In Reference A, Headquarters stated it had made an exhausti-
analysis of the allegation that Subject might have taken the name of the
Jerzy VOLSKY killed in action but found no indication that would justify
that conclusion, In an effort to determine why Stibject's name was car-
ried on the RAF rolls as AJBUSZYC instead of VOLSKY, it was surmised by
Headquarters that it was "understandable" because of the length of
Subject's name, In this regard, it was noted by Headquarters that
Subject had listed his full name in his PRQ Part I as Jorge Stakistaw
Ajbuszyc VOLSKY Kraisler,

: - (2): In analyzing the above interpretation by Headquarters,
JMWAVE felt that if the RAF were. to shorten Subject's name on their
records for -brevity's sake, they would have been more likely to omit a
second or third name rather than his family name of VOLSKY. An investi-
gation was initiated by JMWAVE in March 1964 to attempt to clear up the
existing\cgnfusion concerning Subject's identity, AMBLEAK-1, a personal
friend of\Subject, on instructions of his case officer contacted a Mrs.
Aurora de\\QUESADA Miranda, a very closé friendjof the family of Subject’
wife, Mercelies ROVIRA Bertran, Mrs, QUESA resident of the Hotel
Terrace Park in Miami, is the wife of Dav SNATA Azcue, former
official of the Ministry of State of the/Républic of Cuba, and had the
following pertinent information to offer :.

(a) During the Second World War at a session of the Havana
Rotary Club it was decided to ask members of the Club who had single
daughters to act as pen pals for officers. fighting with the Allied
armies in Europe, Mr. Jose ROVIRA presented the names of his three
Single daughters. Only one of these daughters maintained this corre-
Spondence (with two officers), one of whom was Subject, a pilot aviator
in the RAF,

(b) According to Mrs, QUESADA, Subject's father died in
the Second World War and Jorge had joined the RAF, She stated that as
far aS she could remember, VOLSKY was born in Warsaw, Poland and that
the name VOLSKY was that of his mother or of a grandmother and tha
his true name began with "A" and continued, she believed, with a "
anda "z",

(c) At the end of World War II, VOLSKY, then in London,

Senorita >
As it was not possible for VOLSKY to obtain a visa for Cuba, he obtained
one for Ecuador and arranged to stop over in Cuba in transit, .
- * .~ (a) ..Upon VOLSKY's arrival in Cuba, Source's husband, Mr,
David MASNATA; by virtue of his connection in the Cuban Ministry of
State, was able to arrange permission for VOLSKY to remain in Cuba,
Within a year of his residence in Cuba, he married Miss ROVIRA and
because of the fact that his name was virtually unpronounceable, he

decided to adopt the name of VOLSKY legally, stating that this was the
name of his mother or of a grani other,

e. Station JMWAVE analysis of Subject's background prior to his
arrival in Cuba is inconclusive. The following points, however, are
worthy of further investigation:

(1). The fact that the as i=
sumed by Subject does not totally clear him of suspicion in this
respect, It becomes evident that VOLSKY fabricated a.name for his
father, that of Josef A, VOLSKY, which would fit his own new name, If
it is assumed that VOLSKY is not the real name of Subject's father,

three possible solutions to this puzzle emerge:

(a). VOLSKY is the name of a grandmother as Subject claims
and Subject attributed it to his father to avoid lengthy explanations
on forms, ~

r

SECRE!
:


(3


wt oe

SECRET | .

(b).. Subj@ct, AJBUSZYC, took the name of VOLSKY from the
dead pilot for personal reasons. . .

(c) Subject is a communist agent who assumed one or both
of the subject. names either in an effort to erase a derogatory back-
ground or, more likely, to assume a new identity and attempt to con-
fuse the issue.

(2) Still in ‘connection with Subject's true name, VOLSKY
deliberately withheld information when he made out his PRQ for
JMWAVE in March 1963, The PRQ specifically calls for "name at birth
if, different from Item 1" (Item I being Subject's full name).
VOLSKY marked the item as not applicable.

(3). .The slight discrepancy in education listed in paragraph

3 b should be checked into.
pers ©

nize (4) On 8 February 1963 He§dquarters reported Jorge VOLSKY as
probably identical with one JosephY¥SKULICZ "although this still
questionable", (DIR 16243 dated 8 Fabruary 1963). There are no
Station traces on SKULICZ and further mention of this tentative
identification was never made by Headquarters.

(5) Still to be explained by VOLSKY are the circumstances
surrounding his imprisonment in Russia and his joining the Polish
Army Service there at a time when Soviet intelligence was attempting
to subvert those recruits.

4, Background in Cuba Prior to U.S.
a. Family

(1) VOLSKY reports in his PRQ that on 7 August 1948 in
Havana he married his present wife, Mercedes ROVIRA Bertran.
Immigration and Naturalization Service (1&NS) in Miami has a copy of
this marriage certificate on file which confirms the marriage date
given above agd gives the following information:

The full name of VOLSKY's wife is Mercedes
Antonia Juan: OVIRA Bertran, daughter of Jose ROVIRA and Mercedes
BERTRAN, nativesjof Spain.

(b) VOLSKY is listed as Jorge Ajbuszyc VOLSKY, son of
Jose and Maria, natives of Poland,

(c) From 1937 to 1938 Mercedes was listed as a student
in Santiago de Cuba and from 1938 to 1961 as a housewife in Havana’

. “(2) .The fact that Mercedes ROVIRA says she was a housewife
‘in Havana from 1938 to 1961 does not coincide with the story told
above to the effect that during the war years she was the single
daughter of Jose ROVIRA in Santiago de Cuba, engaged to Jorge VOLSKY.
It is possible that she mistakenly put the year 1938 instead of
1948 on her record. However, that. leaves ten years of her life
unaccounted for in the Immigration records.

b. Business

(1) Jorge VOLSKY reported in his PRQ that he directed and
owned his own business in Cuba from November 1947 to May 1961 when
he left for the United States. This business, whichhe described as
a publicity office was named Dekora Studio S.A., P. Gomez 283, Habana,
and was subsequently confiscated by the CASTRO Government. VOLSKY
also told AMLAME-1 that in addition to his publicity business in Cuba,
hé had rendered services to the Information Service of the United
States Embassy in Habana. The following reports on VOLSKY's business
were obtained:

(a) AMOT-119 described VOLSKY's business, DEKORA, as a

SECRET


72


SECRET

; | Publicity business which engaged mainly in the production and
decoration of floats for carnivals. He stated that the ROVIRA family
helped him financially to set up this business.

(b) Mrs. QUESADA reported that. the ROVIRA family was
very wealthy as they were the proprietors in Cuba of the CASTILLO RUM
and CINEMA REX enterprises, among others, and that Mr. ROVIRA put
VOLSKY to work in a. decorating firm which he owned,

(c) Aureliano Kesereton, formerly in the advertising
billboard business in Cuba, reports that when Studio Dekora was
nationalized VOLSKY was working on a large advertising plan for
Central America ordered by the Coca Cola bottling plant in -Cuba.

c.. Contacts and Travel

(1). VOLSKY traveled frequently while in Cuba and amassed an
extremely large number of influential contacts. He was a member of
the Havana Biltmore Yacht and Country Club and predominately
mingled with the upper class professional industrialists and
particularly cultivated the friendship of American journalists.

(2) -According’ to his PRQ, VOLSKY traveled to Europe in 1957
on a pleasure trip at his own expense and also had traveled to the
United States many. times during the years he lived.in Cuba, He also

listed frequent travel to Jamaica.

da. Politics

: (1) During the period before his business was nationalized,
VOLSKY is described as a socialist, who had publicly said that the
future of the world is socialistic. _He was avidly pro-CASTRO and
had often denounced the United States for putting up with the BATISTA
Government in Cuba which was riddled with graft, (AMOT-119 Report
AA-774/17, September 1962).

(2) According to Tad SZULC, see Paragraph 5 below, VOLSKY
became disenchanted with the Regime when his business was intervened
and he spent the latter part of 1959 and most of 1960 actively
supporting anti-CASTRO activities. SZULC amplified this remark by
stating he knew of instances of VOLSKY's transporting explosives and
hand and shoulder weapons in his private car.

(3) VOLSKY was arrested and imprisoned in La Cabana prison.
luring the Invasion roundup, an event he has
made much of ever since and has used to establish counterrevolutionary
bona fides. "AMBLEAK-1, who was imprisoned during the same period, *
stated-that VOLSKY was held for a short time, a matter of weeks, and
probably had been included in this roundup because he was a known
‘MRP member, foreigner, or member of the middle class. According to
Tad SZULC, VOLSKY was able to leave Cuba shortly thereafter as he had

a valid U.S, visa in his passport. fOLSKY arrived i:
22 May 1961.,

5. JMWAVE Knowledge of VOLSKY Relationship with Tad SZULC

a. On 17 September 1962 AMOT-119 presented a report to KUBARK

which contained information to the effect that VOLSKY had influence

ents of the American press, especially the New Yor

Times and the Washington Post, This influence was derived from

Sub. vation in Cuba of American journalists, in icular
urrently employed aS a correspondent for the Washington
Bureau of the New York Times. A close relationship exists between
SZULC_in Washington and VOLSKY in Miami and they are in touch
periodically by Both telephi ephone and personal visItS, —VOLSKY iS a
source of.information for SZULC and evidently influences his thinking
as is manifested by the transfer of VOLSKY's political philosophy
into the principal thesis of a book on Cuba written by SZULC: namely
that Cuba should not be attacked by the United States and that the
Cuban problem can be solved internally. This book entitled, The

SECRET



368%

dpe
awh


Cuban Invasion -- The Chronicle of a Disaster, is particularly critica
OF_KUBARK, not limiting itself to a aiscussiok oF tts THe OF its failure at Playa

o:
Giron, but dealing in detail with many other aspects of KUBARK.

b, As mentioned in paragraph 2.a,, Tad SZULC presented to ODACID
an operational plan based on VOLSKY's ideas which was subsequently
turned over to KUBARK, SZULC was contacted by KUBARK on 6 February
1963 concerning this plan and gave the following information concerning
the background of his relationship with VOLSKY, whom he reported as its
author,

(1) VOLSKY has been a friend of his for the past three years
and he (SZULC) considers him one of the most informed exiles on Cuban
internal affairs and stated that he was, in fact, his contact for most
of his. important information emanating from inside Cuba. He referred to
VOLSKY as "our man in Havana" even though he was living in Miami,

(2) SZULC reported that VOLSKY, by virtue of his advertising
business, had traveled extensively throughout the provinces of Cuba
and.had made many friends before said business was intervened, He has
been able to keep these internal contacts and passes on information
obtained from them to SZULC. Among the most important of his contacts
is AMSTRUT-2, a lifelong friend of VOLSKY's sister-in-law (unidentified)
who furnishes what SZULC considers vital information by means of this
friendship to VOLSKY,

c. In August 1962 SZULC had arranged an interview in Was: aa
for VOLSKY with Richard N GOODWIN, advisor to former Presiden IEDY..
In late October 1962 AMBLEAK-1 had reported that VOLSKY called
upon him to assist him in rounding up recently arrived refugees who
had. seen Soviet missiles and troops in Cuba. It was VOLSKY's purpose

to have AMBLEAK-1 serve as interpreter for interviews of the refugees
by correspondent Tad SZULC,

e. Tad SZULC reported that he had a standing invitation extended
since November 1961 to contact directly President Kenne ce President
Johnson McGeorge Bundy at any time on Cuban matters, His opinions
obviously carried weight with the Administration and therefore, his
backing of VOLSKY’s plan, to the point where he sat in on ARK
meetings concerning Fe tae Droba the primary reason it was adopted
so quickly. Thus, VOLSKY and SZULC maintained a mutually profitabte

—serherenship, VOLSKY by providing SZULC with up-to-date information
obtained through his USIA position and through his contacts in the exile
community, and, SZULC, by exerting pressure on KUBARK by means of his
"in" with the former Administration and his newspaper audience to promote
VOLSKY's ideas. 2

.£. As SZULC could exert his influence and indirectly pressure KUBARK
‘into adopting dn operation, so could he apply pressure through his media
to run ‘certain details pertaining to it, The following example shows
the position KUBARK was maneuvered into by these influences. One of
the principals of the subject operation, AMICE-27, whom KUBARK wished
to remove from said operation because of his indiscretion and inability
to accept control, but who was an informant on all aspects of the oper-
ation for VOLSKY and SZULC, had to be handled with kid gloves and
offered a juicy alternative position in an effort to appease him as it
was felt that he would take his case to SZULC, The time picked by KUBARK
to disengage AMICE-27 was one when SZULC was on an extended Latin America:
trip. AMICE-27 refused the substitute position, delivered an ultimatum
which was not accepted by KUBARK, and, as expected, was reported by a
teammate to be threatening to take his case to the highest authority
through the VOLSKY/SZULC channel, It was JMWAVE's feeling that AMICE-27
understood power and politics to the extent that once he became aware _
that SZULC would not. be available for immediate consultation, he would
be willing to reopen his discussions concerning an alternative position
for himself with KUBARK, This he did subsequently. The next step
taken by JMWAVE to ease this situation was to attempt to assuage VOLSKY
who was. cold and uncommunicative at first, obviously upset over the
dismissal of AMICE-27 and, at the same time, temporarily cut off from
his powerful Washington channel, However, this treatment released the

SECRET



1/2


SECRET

pressure, diverted a case which might otherwise have been presented to
SZULC, ‘and obviated a situation which might otherwise have been diffi-
cult and embarrassing for KUBARK,

8. VOLSKY and SZULC vere in very frequent contact with each other
during the JMWAVE Sponsorship of the VOLSKY plan, ‘This fact was
-ascsriatned t through VOLSEY'S comments toa THE case officer in
which he often referred to recent activities of SZULC and through the
reactions. of SZULC and VOLSKY when any decisions concerning the opera-
tion made by Headquarters or JMWAVE were relayed to one member of this
partnership without the knowledge of the other. Decisions concerning
the operation handed out by Headquarters and JMWAVE had to be given
simultaneously to SZULC and VOLSKY in order to avoid misunderstandings
which would arise when one would immediately inform the other of same,

h, It is mere speculation to guess whether there is more to this
relationship than that mentioned in paragraph 6.e, above. It is
interesting to note, however, that on 6 January 1964 in a conversation
between AMICE-14 and a JMWAVE case officer concerning language abilities,
AMICE-14 remarked that YOLSKY and SZULC always speak together in Polish.
When asked if they conversed In POLISH So thet Ho One would tO obie te
understand them, AMICE-14:replied that he thought it was just to practice
the language. This fact does not agree with VOLSKY's earlier statement

i because he had
not used ‘the language for a long time, It seems strange that VOLSKY
would refuse to speak his native tongue with COS unless he were afraid
that his accent or pronunciation would disclose some element of his
background which he did not wish so disclosed,

i. On 20 February 1964, Chief of Station, JMWAVE, had luncheon
with Conrad MANLEY, Chief of the Miami Office of USIA. During this
luncheon, in a discussion of VOLSKY, MANLEY stated that he was aware
that VOLSKY was the unofficial stringer for SZULC of the Times and
that his superior in Washington had recently brought this relationship
to his attention, asking MANLEY to discourage it. The reason for this
was that several newspaper personnel in the Washington area had com-
plained to USIA about the preferential treatment afforded SZULC by his
relationship with VOLSKY,

j. The most recent information indicating that the SZULC/VOLSKY
relationship continues is a letter written on 23 February by Theodore

ER, well known author and political analyst, to Miss Phyllis FREEMAN
of the Frederick A. Praeger Publishing Company, (Reference B), In this
letter DRAPER recommends that VOLSKY be chosen as the author of a book
to be written on Cuba and set up an appointment for him to meet FREEMAN
while he was in New York, Reference B also includes a memorandum in
which FREEMAN ,reported that VOLSKY was highly recommended for this “job
by both Theodore ,DRAPER and Tad SZULC who rely on him for much of their
gay. to day information on Cuba She stated that SK now a

b b

D i
a special SZULC-engineered deal". AMCARBO: y
“gre yore resets S100 See @ week for his work as a stringer. In regard

Ey
to VOLSKY's forthcoming book, he has mentioned to AMBLEAK-1 that he
expects to have it published in September 1964 under the title of Cuba
work (Note: In reference B, Phyllis FREEMAN has indicated that

claims that he was educated in England and that he had gone to
Cuba in 1945, a decidedly different version of his background.)

6. . VOLSKY's Knowledge of the Cuban Exile Community
a. . VOLSKY Refugee Status and Personal Life in Miami

(1) In a recent conversation with AMLAME-1 VOLSKY stated that
he had become an American citizen,

(2) A check of Immigration and Naturalization Service records
in Miami shows that VOLSKY is not a citizen of the United States as he
claims, but became a permanent resident on 5 February 1963, and that
VOLSKY's wife, Mercedes ROVIRA, had petitioned for this status for him,

SECRET.




SECRET .

(3) AMBLEAK-1 reported that VOLSKY lives with his in-laws,
his wife and child in Coral Gables, He is inordinately fond of his
child, a boy now twelve years of age, to the point of obsession. *

(4) AMNBLEAK-1 also reported in July 1963 that VOLSKY had
developed an intimate relationship with a female cousin of AMBLEAK-1

in_Havana sister of former JMWAVE asset,
0 mow lives in Miami

and continues Her intimate relationship with VOLSKY although she is
also married with children, Neither she nor VOLSKY is aware that
AMBLEAK-1 knows of their liaison, AMBLEAK-1 had learned of this rela~

tionship in the following manner: While VOLSKY was still in ba he

occaSionally asked A-1 to try to get letters out for him b. lomati
pouch to Miami and after A-] arrived in the United States,
frequently asked nim to send letters and packages in for her, One day,

dissatisfied with the size of a box in which his cousin was sending a
sweater to a woman in Cuba, A-1 opened said box and found in the folds
of the sweater a torrid love letter from his cousin to VOLSKY, A-1
decided to keep quiet about his knowledge of the relationship and both
VOLSKY and act in his presence as though they hardly know one
another, On one occasion brought up the topic of VOLSKY in a
conversation with A-1 and warned him to be cautious in his dealings with
VOLSKY. When A-1 attempted to get his cousin to explain her warning,
she refused, stating that she felt AMBLEAK-1 should avoid developing
too close a relationship with him, A-1 felt that as merely try-
ing to smoke-screen her relationship with VOLSKY,

(5) At a meeting between VOLSKY and a JMWAVE case officer on
25 September 1963, VOLSKY remarked on the pressures and frustrations of
life today and suggested that the best way to work off tensions was to
follow his lead which was to have frequent extramarital relations with
girl friends, The case officer felt that although this remark may have
been meant to be facetious, he was inclined to believe the opposite and
made it a matter of record for any possible future KUDESK investigation
of Subject,

b. USIA Employment

(1) . When YOLSKY arrived in the United States, he visited his
friend and former conta in the U.S. Embassy_in Havana, Paull BETHEL,
who at that time was in charge of the Miami Office of the USIA, BETHEL
was sold on VOLSKY's presentation of himself as a counterrevolutionary
recently out of prison and an expert on the communist problem and inter-
national affairs, BETHEL contracted him to edit a VOA program which
was entitled "The Truth Behind the News", JMWAVE traces on BETHEL show

the following information:

> . (a) ,In.1960 BETHEL who was Press Attache of the U. S.
Embassy in Cuba yas a suspected informant for the CASTRO Regime
“(WH/4/CI dated'23 September 1960). No confirmation of this was ever
developed.

(b) BETHEL was employed by JMWAVE for three months, October
through December 1961, as a writer-analyst for a detailed analysis of
the overt Cuban press. This employment took place shortly after BETHEL
had left his job in USIA in a huff as he refused to accept a transfer to
Washington where he was to work on a matter related to the Peace Corps.
His KUBARK employment was on a trial basis only and was terminated after
an assessment by Headquarters in which it was determined that BETHEL's
reports contained nothing which was not already available through regulay
established sources and therefore his high salary, $1,000.00 per month,

was not justified,

° (2) When BETHEL resigned his USIA post and began to work for
KUBARK, William GPRWAGLEY took over his position of Cnief of the Miami
Office. WAGLEY mdde: VOLSKY responsible for the weekly summary report
made to Washington USIA analyzing the Cuban situation,

(3) It is believed that VOLSKY has a clearance only as a Purchas
Order Vendor for the USIA which does not clear him for any classified


SECRET

; information, nor.is his status that of an officer of the U. S. Government
yet he sat in on USIA meetings and had access to classified material,
WAGLEY and VOLSKY nad a close relationship in their work and WAGLEY
openly reported VOLSKY as his right hand man to the Director of the
Voice of America (VOA), Henry LOOMIS.

(4) . WAGLEY was transferred to the Washington Office in August
1962 at which time Conradf*MANLEY became Chief, VOLSKY continued in his
duties.and in addition’ p: red an additional copy of his weekly report
for WAGLEY which was sent directly to Washington for him, As of the
date of this report, MANELY remains in charge of the USIA office and
VOLSKY is still employed in the same status,

BY Mee
(5) According to Tad SZULC, Major Manue] PINEIRO Losada aka
Barba Roja
when he, PINEIRO, telephoned him in
Miami during the. and stated, in effect
that "Fidel CASTRO was angry as he felt the Russians had sold the Cubans
down the river",

(6) On 3 May 1963 ree la TORRE, radio announcer and
Voice of America newspaperman, reported that the employees of VOA con-
sider VOLSKY’as an individual with whom one must be careful as he is
suspected of being a communist,

. Fe
(7) Gabrie1/*QUINTERO, operator of the USIA radio equipment

in Miami,. reported to ITAUP-2 in’ August 1963 that on various occasions

he has surprised Jorge VOLSKY listening in on USIA telephone conversation

both incoming’ and outgoing, QUINTERO states that he doesn't know what

reason motivates VOLSKY to do this,

. \% .
-S8,\0°'(8) AMTAUP-2 reporteg-that-on 13 September 1963 he was in the
\) USIA office when Mrs, Miriam WNORWEB who is an official in ODACID in
\" Miami arrived there, “A-Z was' informed’ that Mrs, NORWEB is avery fre

; quent visitor of VOLSKY and has‘long interviews with him and keeps him
' Tconstantly informed about ODACID affairs.

c. VOLSKY's use of USIA for JURE Purposes - The following incidents,
rélated here in chronological order, are reported to substantiate JMWAVE'
claims that VOLSKY has used his USIA position for JURE political objectiv
and in fact might be the power which directly or indirectly determines
these objectives.

(1). (General) Among VOLSKY's Cuban contacts is Raul /*CHIBAS
-Rivas.,201-248160, a member of the executive committee of JURE, liste
as Manolo RAY's right-hand man, This contact originated. through the
close friendship of VOLSKY's wife with the divorced wife of CHIBAS ‘and,
as a result, VOLSKY became closely connected with Manolo's group. Ac-
cording to JMWAVE traces, CHIBAS, the former director of the Havana
Military Academy and reportedly an early idol of Fidel CASTRO, defected
in 1960, He gave a three hour interview to Tad SZULC in Havana who
reported him completely disillusioned with the Cuban Regime. However,
CHIBAS had a definite record of Communist Party participation and_was
Suspected by ODENVY of being a CASTRO plant in the United States.

“Goan Seog

(2) - JURE Infiltration of KUBARK

(a) When VOLSKY was first in contact with JMWAVE concerning
the details of his operation, March 1963,.he made a particular point of
mentioning that he personally was convinced that none of the operations
team participants was presently controlled by any political group. At
the same time, he was aware that AMICE-27 was closely connected with JURE
and was reporting to him (VOLSKY). Also at that time he himself was
frequently being visited in his USIA office by Rogelio CISNEROS Diaz,
member of the executive board of JURE.

(b) AMTAUP-2 reported on 30 April 1963 that CISNEROS, at
a meeting -held in his home, said that Manolo RAY Rivero, National Chief

SECRET


>

: “SECRET

of JURE, had issued orders to infiltrate a trusted JURE member into
KUBARK in order to learn the details of any plans with regard to Cuba
and if possible to use the contacts of Jorge VOLSKY for this since he
knew more than ten agents of KUBARK operating in the Miami area who
had been coming to him -to gather reports emanating from Cuba.

(c) On about_30 March 1963 JURE created an Intelligence
Group within its organization whose function was toseéitizate JURE
members. into the various organizations which operate. in Miami, as
well as into agencies of the U. 8 jovernmen: Jose *AGUIAR Fernandez,
201-736869, was given the job of Chief of this Intelligence Corps,
During a meeting between VOLSKY and a JMWAVE case officer on 18 July
1963, VOLSKY, when asked if he had spotted any operational leads which
might be of interest to KUBARK, responded with the name and
let slip that he was a member Of JURE, The case officer felt that
VOLSKY had made an error when he mentioned this matter and immediately
realized it as the case officer had to ask several times before VOLSKY

Ranta repeat the name, Later an AMOT source learned from Antonio
\ f

RIAS Gonzalez, JURE Propaganda Chief, that AGUIAR was making a list
RK agents and their assigned i S)
jing AGUIAR to

hel

as
(a)\ sos@ROIGE, owner of the Camaguey Restaurant in Miami,
informed AMTAUP-2 on August 1963 that he had been designated Chief of
Intelligence by the National Direction Abroad of JURE, When asked by
A-2 what. was his most important source of information, he replied Jorge
VOLSKY who works for USIA in Miami, ‘

: (e) AMICE-27 (VOLSKY informant) on 16 September 1963 at
a meeting with a JMWAVE case officer, reported the names of three
individuals whom he felt he could recruit for KUBARK. Among those
names was that of Raul CHIBAS whom A-27 tried inconspicuously to slip
in, making it a point to mention the other names first. The case office)
felt that this was another VOLSKY inspired attempt to infiltrate a JURE
man into. KUBARK,

(3) JURE Propaganda Program (VOLSKY, by virtue of his position
in the USIA is not allowed to belong to a political organization, How-
ever, he is.a member of the executive board of JURE and in charge of
orienting all JURE propaganda in the U. S. and in Latin America, This
job is held clandestinely by VOLSKY because of his USIA restrictions.)

(a) AMTAUP-2 reported on 30 April 1963 that CISNEROS stated
at.a JURE meeting that JURE planned to introduce into Cuba thousands of
leaflets whose sole purpose was to discredit the American Government.
These leaflets-were to include such matters as RAY's Manifesto against
the U. S..Government and KUBARK,

eo “(b)_ Qn 6 June 1963 RAY arrived in Miami from Puerto Rico
and went directly Eh The home “oF CISNEROS where he called a meeting in
which he Qrdered that no further attacks be made on the U, S, Government
as_he was to_talk to Robert KENNEDY in Washington the next day, He then
called VOLSKY and reported these plans and asked him to submit a report.
to him, the nature of which was unknown to source, AMTAUP-2. RAY also
asked VOLSKY to give him information regarding the new propaganda plans
of the USIA,

(c) On_2’ ine 1963. Y returned to Miami from Washington
and i ffir where 1d am ayd
ained more from his Washington contacts in the last month than he had
in the two previous years. He later called VOLSKY and held a conversatic
with him that lasted over a half hour.

(d) On 18 July 1963 VOLSKY met with a JMWAVE case officer
and stated that AMICE-27 had informed him that KUBARK felt that he
(VOLSKY). was an informant for Manolo RAY, VOLSKY explained to the case
officer that he only saw Manolo RAY in his line of duty as a representa-
tive of USIA in the same manner that he makes contact with many of the

SECRET


“SECRET

exile leaders, VOLSKY also stated that it was his understanding that
RAY and KUBARK had patched up their differences of past years, JMWAVE
comment: VOLSKY was aware of RAY's feeling toward KUBARK expressed in
the following conversation held between RAY and CISNEROS. "

bid are more dan; us than the KE) Admi trati

K a. t
the Administration will end but KUBARK agents always stayed and their

memory is longer than that of elephants, they never forget or forgive".

. (e). On 25 July 1963 AMTAUP-2 reported a conversation be-
tween CISNEROS and VOLSKY in which they discussed a propaganda campaign
against Batistianos to be. launched soon thereafter.

(£) AMOT-119 learned on 1 November 1963 from Max Foeownex
Menendez, editor of REPLICA newspaper, that JURE pays for REPLICA's
printing and that LESNICK immediately gives a copy to Jorge VOLSKY as
Soon as it is published, (JMWAVE traces on’ LESNICK, 201-209258, show
that like VOLSKY, he is a Cuban citizen of Polish origin. He has a
background that includes association with communist cfaménts and at-
tendance at PSP and Ortodoxo leadership meetings. The purpose of the
newspaper, REPLICA, is to counter pro-BATISTA propaganda in the Cuban
exile community.) LESNICK told AMTAUP-2 that the Americans are degen-
erate because they give. money to homosexuals such as AMCORE-2 and
refuse to help him (LESNICK) and that he would take his case to Harvey

SUMM, Department of State Representative in Miami,

(gs) Qi

—Station, JMWAVE, by telephone in an effort

-Shonser LESNICK’s radio program, "Cuba Despierta", taped in Miami and
broadcast daily from the Dominican Republic. Mr. SUMM stated that both
he and USIA. thought that LESNICK had a worthwhile radio program and
asked COS if he could insure that LESNICK receive the necessary funds
to stay on the air. COS informed Mr. SUMM that JMWAVE had access to a
number of radio outlets and if he or USIA had a propaganda theme or
basic message they wanted delivered to the Cuban people, KUBARK would
be glad to accommodate them if this material were in keeping with the
broad policy concepts under which JMWAVE was currently operating. Mr.
SUMM stated he was not interested in themes or programs, he was merely
interested in finding a sponsor for LESNICK and irri

DWAVE would not <« i i He indicated that he intended
to check further on the matter to determine why KUBARK would not fund
LESNICK,

(h) On 4 February 1964 the newspaper PATRIA ran an attack
on George VOLSKY whom it identified as George BOSQUE (phonetic), an
official of USIA in Miami who at the same time was a member of the JURE
executive. It stated that the "little Polack of Cuba Si Yankee No”
(meaning LESNICK) received guidance from BOSQUE each week and then ‘took
pains to make it.appear that Mr. MANLEY rather than BOSQUE had received
him, REPLICA-struck back at PATRIA in an article which appeared 15
‘February 1964 Saying that they did not receive instructions from USIA
although they did solicit material against CASTRO and communism there.
The article further berated PATRIA for revealing the names of the
director’ of the USIA office (MANLEY) and the Cuban employee who still
has relatives in Cuba (BOSQUE)!

Gi) On 8 January 1964 Esteban/*LAMELAS Maura, a newspaperman
in USIA, reported to AMTAUP-2 that VOLSKY urgently requested that LAMELAS
take a poll among the arriving Cuban refugees to determine what they
think of JURE so that he, in turn, could report the results to Manolo
RAY in order to determine whether JURE's propaganda policy should be
changed. LAMELAS said that his USIA contract forbade him from becoming
involved in such a poll; he informed A-2 that this was not the first
time VOLSKY had used USIA for JURE propaganda.

: Gj) Onz2 lanua) 64 AMTAUP-2 reported that JURE had
finished the preparation of necessary plans to send youths to ail Latin
“American universities to lecture concernin, etrayal o.

Policy.

ECRET


\o

“es



‘SECRET

(k) On 5 February 1964 a report was made on the Bay of
Pigs Invasion by NBC television program which had-been shown the night
before. It’was noted in this report that Antoniofkde la CARRERA
Betancourt, one of the producers of the program,

August 1963 and attempted to locate persons who were disgusted with

KUBARK, Wr. de la CARRERA sought. the advicg of Manolo RAY and Jorge
VOLSKY to draw up the list, Although de la CARRERA posed as a non-

political NBC assistant, he is a member of the JURE in New York City,

(1) On 20 February 1964 at a luncheon attended by Mr.
Conrad MANLEY and COS, JMWAVE, the latter asked MANLEY if he knew that
VOLSKY maintained particularly close contact with JURE and the UR. Mr.
MANLEY indicated that he was not aware of this, but that he would attemp!
to monitor this matter more closely in the future, and, if he developed
any information of interest on this matter, he would forward it to
JMWAVE on an expeditious basis, a_l April 1964 lar’
SUMM told COS that he agreed that VOLSKY was probably SZULC's penetra-

“tion “of USIA and that he was concerned by thé security implications.

(m) AMBLEAK-1 reported he was invited by John BARFIELD of
the local State Department office to attend a formal meeting with eight
Argentine Deputies visiting Miami. This meeting took place on 28 March
1964 at the Montecarlo'Hotel in Miami from 9:30 to 11:30 AM, A-1
attended and noted the presence of several JURE members, The meeting
opened with general questioning, and it immediately became apparent
that the JURE representatives wanted to monopolize the meeting. When a
question was asked concerning the failure of the inside Cubans to sup-
port the Invasion, CISNEROS grabbed the floor and filibustered for
almost an hour before he could be interrupted by BARFIELD to announce
breakfast. A-1 stated that the lengthy intervention by CISNEROS was
embarrassing to the other Cubans but they refrained from interrupting
in order to show solidarity in front of the visitors, A-l stated that
the presence of AMICE-27 and two USIA members led him to believe that
USIA was responsible for the guest list and that therefore Jorge VOLSKY
picked the "so called Cuban leaders that attended the meeting",

(4) JURE Operations

(a) On 13 July 1963 CISNEROS approached Esteban LAMELAS
Maura and requested information from and concerning Cuba in order to
facilitate the infiltration of JURE members into Cuba. When LAMELAS
refused to give that type of information, CISNEROS said he would see
VOLSKY and get it from him,

(b) On 8 January 1964 AMTAUP-2 reported that VOLSKY called
Jose AGUIAR Fernandez to his USIA offices to interview two refugees who
were interested in receiving training and returning to Cuba to fight
CASTRO:, AGUIAR: Fernandez told A-2 that VOLSKY spotted refugees for
vlesids and submitted reports on them to JURE. He added that YOLSKY
liverts refugees from contacting or reporting any information to KUBARK
jem that RK is the enemy of the Cubans who want to

d. VOLSKY's Relationship with the UR

(1) AMBLEAK-1, member of the UR and an old. friend of VOLSKY,
reported the following brief resume of their acquaintance. A-1l met
VOLSKY at a party in Santiago de Cuba shortly after VOLSKY married (1948)
and for reasons A-1 no longer remembers, VOLSKY sought him out socially,
In Miami A-1 maintained a casual relationship with VOLSKY during the
period January to October 1962. VOLSKY then sought him out to aid Tad
SZULC by interpreting for him, During the first half. of 1963, VOLSKY
began to drop in at A-1's home to talk to him about Cuban exile activitic
Apparently these contacts had no clandestine overtones and A-1 in his
position as UR liaison officer found nothing remarkable about his visits,
In late April 1963 A-1 began working with various members of the UR
including AMICE-27, Mario SEIGLIE Montoro, and Eduardo SOTOLONGO Medina
on the drafting of a paper on the solution to the liberation of Cuba.

SECRET

- 12 =




‘i

” SECRET

A-1's purpose in drafting this paper was to raise morale among UR action
types and at the same time prepare a war plan which might be used to win
KUBARK appréval for increased clandestine activity within the UR,” A-1
showed this plan to his JMWAVE case officer, who disliked it as he felt
it. would whip up UR enthusiasm for the development of an active clan—
destine arm within the UR and that this was not desired, On the night
of 1 May 1963 A-1 gathered with AMICE-27 and others at his home to work
on the draft again. A-27 took the draft home ‘with him, stating that he
just wished to polish it up a little. The following morning A-27 called
A-1 and said that he had had a lucky idea and had passed the paper to
VOLSKY who was an experienced writer of policy papers and who liked the
paper very much.  VOLSKY told A-27 that he would get in touch with
AMBLEAK-1 directly to discuss the paper, After about a week of phone
calls from VOLSKY, A-1 agreed to see him and subsequently met him and
Feceived his original paper back, A-1 then began to be plagued by
visits from VOLSKY at the UR offices plus phone calls in which VOLSKY
entreated A-1 to take the paper to Harvey SUMM.

(2) On 18 July 1963 at a meeting between VOLSKY and a JMWAVE
case officer, VOLSKY stated he had recently undertaken to assist the UR
in the propaganda field, He said that the UR was starting a new daily
radio program over a New York radio station, lasting twenty minutes a
day, and, that-it willbe. specifically tailored to attempt to increase
the will to resist within Cuba and particularly attempt to reach the
higher military echelons. VOLSKY said he had originally written all
the VOA breadcasts for over a year after he came to Miami and that he
therefore could greatly assist the UR'with their new program, Asked
whether the UR had anybody to write the program or whether he would
actually write it himself, VOLSKY said that the UR has one. good man but
that he himself expected to have a major hand in editing the program.
He said that because of this he was spending a great deal of time at UR
Headquarters.

e. (JMWAVE Analysis) VOLSKY is in contact with a large segment of
the influential members of the exile community, This is the consequence
of his USIA position which affords him the opportunity to make these con-
tacts to solicit information for propaganda purposes. AMING-2 reported
that VOLSKY is on a first name basis with many of the leaders of counter-
revolutionary groups whom he frequently phones or sees in his office.
(AMING-2 does not trust VOLSKY and thinks that he might be a foreign
agent although he has no facts upon which to base his opinion.) VOLSKY's
main exile community contacts are members of JURE as described in para-
graph 6.c., he himself being responsible for all JURE propaganda, By
his own admission, he is now close to the top echelon of the UR, respon-
sible for the direction of a UR radio propaganda program. As ‘seen from
the forego ing.» [YOLSKY has maneuvered himself into a remarkably advan=
tageous and influential position regarding U. S. Government and Cuban

| According to VOLSKY Ais Wotivation ts-clear, he claims
jto be anti-communist, says that he lost substantial investments in Cuba

when he had to flee, and that he is single-mindedly interested in over-
throwing the CASTRO Government. Although this motivation may be true,
VOLSKY is a shrewd individual and his motivation may be considerably

more complex, VOLSK¥'s knowledge of clandestine methods of operation
coupled with Ris Russian prison background and hi ty a5_a middlen
n_ODYOKE/KUBARK activities make him an excellent cand: or a communi
penetration agent, Although there iS no evidence linking him to a re-
porting communist’ residentura, the Sssibility exis isa
sli stringer for the RIS. pels Hat te ory should
lolating his Us Q

and KUBARK image by. his propaganda programs,

7. VOLSKY's Current Knowledge of JMWAVE Operational Activity

false,
and damaging the

a. YVOLSKY was in contact with JMWAVE for a period in
Sb: through November) directly through COS, JMWAVE; Irving N.
PEGGINS; and Stanley R. ZAMKA. AMICE-14 stated that AMICE-27 had

divulged the complete operational details of his infiltration ops_to
Yan. ; it can therefore be assumed that VOLSKY has obtained

SECRET

Saks




SECRET

a good picture of KUBARK modus operandi in the field of black infiltratic
Because of the high-level objectives of the AMTRUNK operation and AMICE-:
three trips’to ZRMETAL for conferences, and the fact that only PBPRIME
dnstructors were used to train A-27, he has met a greater number of KUBAI
Ss most agen AMICE-27 has been trained in the JMWAVE area
in tradecraft, secret writing, OWL, weapons, maritime reception, map
and compass, and survival, He has never been either to ISOEMEEGM or

TSORHORIG:

b, The following KUBARK staff employees were in contact with AMICE-:
and are therefore considered known to VOLSKY:

Andrew K, REUTEMAN
Willard R.ANAUMAN
Stanley R. ZAMKA

Brickham
odemeyer
r .'. Manuel“ Mendez

Irving N, PEGGINS as Joe‘ Webster

Hobart J, VANDEBORN as TomllMesard

Rueben A, HANNULA as Fred Folsom

Leon C. FLUTEO as OscariGuerra

Keith D, WINETT as Jim (LCFLUTTER Operator)

Paul I, NAPOLILLI as Paul (LCFLUTTER Operator)

Aubrey R, PARANT as Randy (Training Instructor)

Alton T, PIRNACK as Larry (Training Instructor)

Stuart V. KAPRIDNO as Dewey (Training Instructor)

Fletcher K, THENE as Harry (Training Instructor)

Andrew S, PARMERS as Angel Martin (Training
Instructor)

Thomas L, DARGUZIS as Dan (Training Instructor)

Paul V. MENDECINO as Ted (Training Instructor)

Wilfred B, KNEAFSY as Pete (Training Instructor)

"c. On_19 November 1963 in a_meeting with COS, PEGGINS, and AMICE-27
the purpose of which was to offer A-27 a position in the Station's
MHAPRON Radio Program, A-27 said that he had written letters to VOLSKY
and SZULC informing them that Operation Leonardo had been terminated,
A-27 was told that from the Security standpoint this was advantageous
and not to say anything more about it to these individuals. Nevertheless:
A-27 is still | ontact with YOLSKY, and still informing bim of KUBARK
activities as shown in the following AMTAUP-2 report: On 8 March 1964
Jose AGUIAR told LAMELAS that YOLSKY still meets very frequently with
various _KUBARK agents who work in the JMWAVE area, At one of these
meetings AMICE-27 informed VOLSKY that AMTAUP-2 was possibly a KUBARK
agent.

d. Recent Contact J

(1) On 20 February 1964 CISNEROS and VOLSKY left Miami for New
York, Tater to go to ZRMETAL, The two were to contact a KUBARK official
there, a contagt which VOLSKY had previously arranged.

(2) On 24 March 1964 AMBLEAK-1 stated that VOLSKY phoned him
to obtain his opinion as to whether there were to be any major Cuban
exile strikes against Cuba during May, A-1 replied that he did not thinl
so, but VOLSKY pressed him saying, “Are you absolutely sure or are you
being very discreet?"

e. VOLSKY is in contact with the following active JMWAVE agents:

(1) AMBLEAK-1 (UR and socially)
(VOLSKY probably aware of his
KUBARK connections)

(2) AMICE-27 (MHAPRON Radio program)
(VOLSKY aware of KUBARK
connections)

(3) AMING-1 (Exile group leader)

(VOLSKY possibly aware his
KUBARK connections)

SECRET

- 14 -


SECRET

(4) AMLAME-1 (Exile group leader)
(Not known whether VOLSKY |
1 aware KUBARK connection)

“SOTOLONGO Medina, (UR)
i (VOLSKY probably aware ex-KUBARK
connection)

(6) (ur)

(VOLSKY aware KUBARK connection
since SRIGHER under AMICE-27
influence)

(7) AMTAUP-2 (JURE executive)
(VOLSKY suspects him of being a
KUBARK agent)

(8) AMOT-119 (VOA - daily contact)
(not known whether VOLSKY aware,
probably not)



eines

