104-10186-10299)

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

Ths material contain information awting the Neticeal Defense of the Calied Mates within the mraning of tbe Espionage Lave, Tie
UW. OSC. Gece. TOP and THR the tremmauaion of rereaticn of wasen Im say Bander Wy Aa UnAUIBorNS perio le pronibited by Lew.

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEW

CSCI--316/00005-.64

; country Cuba REPORT NO.
susect Ramon Cesar CUENCA Montoto DATE OISTR, 1 July 1964
NO. PAGES a

: REFERENCES CSCI-3/782,053

DATE OF 1964
INFO.

PLACE & Washington, D.C.
DATE ACQ. FIELD REPORT NO.

THis 1S UNEVALUATED INfOUAATION, SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE APPRAISAL OF CONTENT (3 TENTATIVE,

SOURCE: A former Cuban IS officer. who served with the Cuban
. Intelligence Service until April 1964,
t. The following report is one of

Headquarters Comment
a series containing personality information provided by
the source and includes supplemental information from the

records of this Agency.

Upon being shown a photograph of Ramon Cesar CUENCA
Montoto, formerly of the Cubaa Embassy fn Mexico City
and now in Cuba, source states that CUENCA is the chief
of the Central American Section of the Illegal Department
(Illegal) of the Direccion General de Inteligencia (DGI =

General Directorate of Intelligence).

®

4s 5

4 4

u Tere 3

2 SECRET orokirtonn Ed

1 NO FOREIGN DISSEM el
stare tow iT aawe Tea Tae Tusa TEEXX Tce Trer 2

REP_CINCLANT CINCSO # 1&NS i |

(Hote: Fuld dipribution ndxoned by "37 5 5

0) eeeeeeaadas
rigs R ane flee site 1
BU7SATCI A; a 3167000054

pe ra i
MIVSA 7.01), REL (2), Ch 4, RID L ©

