1041008810088

i wf/3/-M

Chief of Station, Hexico
Chiefs of Station, henie foes cfeeas

ag - Thee: Soper - Wixote are (oo1-ar7478)

ae HMMA “22150

7 Asoerhing een: Gtkele
Fs Sen
ral wes. ‘Tn sesers Se Benet e dist Rijeka,

dave) 1 official funds or projet fe satters,
a Sav i Enter earl easter,

fore Sourcerassunes
Peres first sete Bis, ZIC ip Rijeka either
"fe tines; ‘ho leet
eoares: ‘of ‘the:

report, | DEEIJOGH names one
Chief at Fiume and Sasak,

2. . Becorat "to
Wikola ZIC as first asst:
Yageslavia im June 1848. |

isis dae ’ tb

oe FO cia...
~ Background Use a
Do. Not Repreduc »

4 SESS



Sibhcs
BEMB 12012

3. A Yugoslav refugee interviewed by ODOPAL is Seauary 1985
Ramed Hikola IC, Major, tera cirea 1919, reetding im Sugek, se
G@ecend im coummad of the civilias 3DB im Rijeka, Yugeslavia. Ke
Was thes alleged to be having an affair with Marija BULZ, who
ceme to Aewtria during the semeer of 1964 a5 an UOB agent.

AON, Mee:

aS Pa a te 2 well-placed ang chdpe gerd souree, Nikola

served fron 195071962 as one of the essistenta of
tke Londex Reuidont, under cover as Chior of the Ceasular Sectica
of the Yugesle¢ Gebaeey tu Leaden. The Stared added that SIC
Whad beck eeslened a difficult tack by the Coordination Bepartuent .~
Source could sot find cut chet it-uns, but, learned that SIC vee

ied about i¢ aad feared that he would net: b¢:able-te carry

Source described SC a5 “a bad and dangerous man.”

i eeorenry quer aos 22! States that Hikela SIC cane to
the Yugeslev Cousuler Seetien. Se wis sateen 3a fugest 1 1 sad;
accer@ing fe the. Br. there was no reason te deabt that hia"

et &

: id é je G F ee
wih‘ Graves ie: Gheee afeae'agnis ¢y tour ta ilesiee er bees
and the: repoctipe Stations Sep when ee keep ea:eye, of. hi activities

amet
