# 104-10062-10058

## Page 1

104-10062-10058

In Reply, Please Refer so

File No.

(105-14883)

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Miami, Florida

March

5, 1969

- SECRET -

MICHÜFILMED

MAR 251969

DOC. MICRO. SER

KE: CUBAN INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

IN THE UNITED STATES

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

On February 25, 1969, source, a Cuban exile

residing in Miami, Florida, furnished the following

signed

statement, as translated from the Spanish

language:

Miami, Florida

February 25, 1969

I, (name of source), have read a statement

of my rights and understand my rights.

These

rights

were read to me by JOSEPH S. DAWSON, who

identified himself to me as a Special Arent of

the rederal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), in

the presence of SAMUEL W. JONES, who also identified

himself to me as a Special Agent of the FBI.

signed a waiver of rights after I had read my

rights, and the Agent had read them to me.

make this statement to the Special Agents of the

FBI voluntarily.

They have not threatened me or

made promises to me to make this statement.

I have given information about

) to Agents of the FBI,

which information was not correct.

According to

my previous statement, my first contact with the

was in November of 1967, while actually I was

recrufted

I in about October of 19652

- SECRET -

Group 1

Excluded from automatic

downgrading and

declassification

Ma Guts

186-5-14

DSC 4593)

16.8..

535-CC526

#5613

---

## Page 2

14-00000

RE:

- SECRET

CUBAN INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

IN THE LITED STATES

Just before the time of the Camarioca affair in

October of 1965, I made a clandestine trip by

boat to Cuba to bring out relatives of Cuban

who resiand in the United states. This trip was

made ii

AND whd need the nacinames

NU IMAGU

A" and "EL PICARO."

When I

was visiting a person

In Havana, Cuba,

whose name! do not remember, who was, a person

I had been sent to in order to make arrangements

for the families who were leaving Cuba with me,

I was detained by two men whoidentified themselves

to me with credentials

They took me

to an office in Havana,

of which I do not know the

address.

In this office, they kept me for eight

to ten hours. While I was detained, a man dressed

In olive drab uniform interrogated me.

This man

me of being an Agent for the Central

Intelligence Agency (CIA) of the United States,

which I denied.

At the request of this uniformed

man, I consented to work |

in the United

st refused the united States a choco petson

to the United States with the Cuban

families

261- 245665

official rave me the address of

of Havana

Cuba, and told me

to either write him

or to call|

at Havana telephone number

no further instructions, but told me that I should

keep in contact, since

they would possibly need

2.

Calem E-2 ernt

on N.S.

ad. i.

---

## Page 3

14-00000

RE:

at: Calla P

Sey: F

A: Gula,

Prime del?'

Ria

i.

— SECRET

CUSAT INTRLLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

IN JIN VIATED STATES

no in the future. He took down information

concrening my background, including my address,

at that time

Court,

Apar lorent

Miami, Florida.

ug next com

occurred

Jany import with the

I wrote

doltur directed t

and enclosed

it in: letter which I had writte

to my wife,.

This letter was addressed to

Cuba. or to

the

Cuba.

this letter to

with the

purpose of paving the way for another trip to

brif people out of Cuba. In other words, it

to insure my entrance and departure, without

dif:iculty from

the Cuban Government.

letter, I wrote only that I was still at their

service, and

that I would soon return to liba by

boat.

I did not receive an answer to this

letter.

My

next contact with the

was in August

of 1966, when I went to Cuba by boat to briug

people out of Cuba and to bring them to the

UnitedStates.as refugées..ton this trip, i went

with

no 2.01

Whose ret name I do not

khow.

On this

and

trip, we arrived.in Cuba at midnight,

and I went to the home of his parents

in

The next morning,

I left with the

sister of

Sagua la Grande. where I Obtained a car which took

me to Havana.

had instructed me to

contact a family in Havana which was friendly

with

but the man to whom I had been

3.

- SECRET

.!

---

## Page 4

14-00000

RE:

- SECRET

CUBAN INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

IN THE UNITED STATES

had already gone to Sagua la Grande

Then I went to the house of

Havana. I do not know the

tradress

sir there

• contacted several relatives ot

who

wanted to leave Cuba®

In order to assure me tha

I would have no problem

leaving Cuba, I

called the telephone number of

the number they had given me previously, and asked

hem to contact me on an urgent matter.

A little

ater, three men dressed in civilian dothing

arrlied in a car, and one of them identified

himself as

Re was a white man,

5'8"'

155 pounds, sharp features, with a short

beard and large ears.

He gave me no specific

instructions, but told me to stay in conta ct

with them.

After this, I had no contact with the

until about February or March of 1967,

This

was after I had been detained by United States

Customs Agents in Miami when I was trying to

leave for Cuba by boat. On this occagion,

February 21, 1967, I was arrested and charged

with Assaulting a Federal Officey, and I was

freed on bond,

awaiting trial.

After I was out

on bond and while I was awaiting trial, I was

restricted to the State of Florida. In the meantime,

I wrote the second letter to

and

sont it enclosed in a letter addressed to my

wife in Cuba

to one of the above-mentioned

addresses.

In this letter, I told

) that

I was in a difficult situation and could not

leave the State of Forida, and that I wished to

talk to

someone who could help me.

4.

- SECRET

---

## Page 5

14-00000

RE:

- SECRET -

CUBAN INTOLLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

IN TIE UNITED STATES

I received an answer to this second letter

And tast

scut in an envelope placed inside another

enveiope. The outside envelope was sent from

Costa ica. I did not receive this letter while

in prison, sincel

_ with whom I was

opered it and kept it for me until my

departure from prison in September of 1967

Afior I left prison in September of 1962

recolied several telephone calls at

the home

from an individual in New York

who identitied himself as '

When a first talked WItT

he told

ARA"

cousin" He later

identified himself as

I made several trips

to

New YorD under assumed

nanes •

In New Yorls,

I

met with

and we discussed the Cuban

exile situation.

Complete information about these

trips and meetings with

have been furnished

Contris

I signed statements

4'20

Since the first contact with

I have

made several reports by telephone and others personally

about the

activities of several anti-CASTRO

Groups In Miami, and I have received about two thousand

dollars from

for these services, including

money for the tickets) to New York.

Concerning these reports, L

showed a

crane stah tripe to cuba by oration e tat anato

clandestine trips to Cuba by members of the anti-

CASTRO groups in Miami, as well as any plan of

attack against the person of FIDEL CASTRO. All

5.

- SECRET

---

## Page 6

14-00000

RE:

- SECRET -

CUBAN INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

IN THE UNITED STATES

the information that I have given to

has been

decelving or false, and I have been careful to

insure that the false information could not be

checked on.

To demonstrate that I was a reliable

person, •I gave

certain information about events

that had already happened which could be verified

or which was public information.

For example,

after one clandestine trip to Cuba carried out

by Cuban exiles,

I gave information about this

trIp, liut only after they had returned to the

United States. I never have given information

which could have jeopardized any person, to the

best of my knowledge.

In December of 1968), I furnished to

a completely fate story about a plan by Cuban

exiles in Miamt to assassinate FIDEL CASTRO.

told him that they were going to make this attack

while CASTRO was speaking

that the rames of the Cuban exiles involved

in this plan were the following:

(37r9t told unknown)

". I told

that they would

that

I reported

I had received this information from a Cuban

whose last name is

who is a boat

mechanic working for an agency of the United

States Government in Miami®

After giving him this report,

called

me several times each week during

December of 1968,

to find out if I had learned more about this

attempt against

the life of FIDEL CASTRO.

In

January of 1969, I reported to

that the

6.

— SECRET. -

---

## Page 7

14-00000

RE:

- SECRET -

CUBAN INCELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

IN TIG UNITED STATES

group had returned, and had failed in their

mission.

To the best of my knowledge, none of

these persons exist, with the exception of

In making these reports, I used certain

code words which had been given to me by

and they are as follows:

These code words have been used by me in

telegrams sent to addresses in Cuba designated

which I have previously furnished to

the FBI.

The telegrams which I sent were

signed with the code name

names. These telegrams were only sent to Cuba.

Near the end of 1967,

told me to

make a trip to Cuba with a select group, which

/ Included

and he told me that I

would receive documents in Cuba which would

indicate that a

7.

- SECRET -

---

## Page 8

14-00000

HE :

.. SECRET -

CUBAN INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES IN

THE UNITED STATES

since I never returned to Cuba, this plan

ncer carried out.

Although he never gave

me the mme of the Cuban, I was under the

Imprescion that it would

be someone unknown in

the inielligence field.

he this time, I also remember that

Trave me instructions to talk to

a Miami

who is a firely y

He told me that in conversation

•with

I should try to learn if

Chad

• received any information from

reliting to the policies of President RICHARD

NIXON, concerning the Cuban situation.

also instructed me to talk with

about the Cuban problem.

My last contact with

was at

in

while I was

Miami.

in the house

of

had told me he

was going

to call

me

• at Miami

number

I waited for the call,

and

since he

did not call me,

I sent a telegram to

Havana,

Cuba.

addressed

between

and L

FivEntEs,

Cuba. In the

telecram.

I wrote.

telegram on

is the code

means that

night

from

_I sent this

This telegram

that I have with

and the code

should call me at

Ton the

indicated in the telegram.

During the call

he asked me how

8.

- SECRET -

... i.

---

## Page 9

14-00000

RE:

• SECRET •

CUBAN INTFLLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

IN THE UNITED STATES

thinps were going, and also told me he would be

gone

and

that another person

would contact me

on

the

March, 1969, at L

This

at Miami telephone number

to identify himself

with the code, L

I have read this declaration of eleven pages

and it is correct.

(signed by the source and witnessed by two

Spocial. Agents of the FBI.)

On February 25, 1969, the source made available

containing printed words in

the

Source advised this printed material

constitutes

which was utilized by him for

his

He said

were furnished to

him by

sometime during November of

1968

At the time they were given to him, they

were enclosed in

gave him

and demonstrated to him

The

contained the following information,

translated iron

thel

9.

• SECRET

---

## Page 10

14-00000

RE:

- SECRET

CUBAN INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

IN THE UNITED STATES

10.

SECRET

---

## Page 11

14-00000

RE:

- SECRET

CUBAN IRTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

IN TIE UNITED STATES:

11.

SECRET

---

## Page 12

14-00000

RE:

- SECRET •

CUBAN INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

IN THE UNITED STATES

12.

• SECRET •

........

---

## Page 13

14-00000

RE:

- SECRET -

CUBAN INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

IN TIE UNITED STATES

13.

-SECRET • •

---

## Page 14

14-00000

RE:

_ SECRET

CUBAN INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

IN THE UNITED STATES

14

• SECRET

---

## Page 15

14-00000

n020/

n0201

15.

SECRET

19772

RE:

- SECRET

CUBAN INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

IN THE UNITED STATES

---

## Page 16

14-00000

RE:

- SECRET -

CUBAN INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

IN THE UNITED STATES

According to source, on the

prison

of the

Shad written instructions

for the source in

connection with the investigations, he was to make.

This''+

handwriting was as follows:

2

16.

- SECRET

...-

---

## Page 17

14-00000

RE:

- SECRET

CUBAN INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

N THE UNITED STATES

Stay in contact wi

1t ALEREDO CORDERO

relation

no 0205 nd out ga

Obtain photographs of yourself with CIA P.A.: that?

you know.

41 4

source advised that following his first personal

contact with

his telegram contact y2

in Cuba was Changed fronv

Apartment

between

and

Aven

Cuba.

1020/

Regarding the information concerning

source advised he, the source, is friendly with

and is in a position to contact

regularly...r

Inasmuch as

has requested the source to assist him

in bringing a relative ofl

from Cuba to the United

States.

Source said

had previously operated a

store in downtown Miami, but now

plans to open a new

store in a Miami shopping center. located at

Street and

Avenue, in which shopping center RebOZo

a financial interest.

PROPERTY OF FBI - This document contains neither s

recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the

property of the FBI and is loaned to your agency; It and its w

contnts are not to be distributed outside your agency.

17. *

— SECRET

a finite i

---

## Page 18

14-00000

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION:

Miamt, Florida

March

3, 1969

In Reply, Please Refer 10

File No.

(105-14883)

Title

CUBẮN INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

IN THE UNITED STATES

Character.

Reference

INTERNAL, SECURITY - CUBA

Memorandum, dated and captioned

as above, at Miami, Florida

All sources (except any listed below) whose Identities'

are concealed in referenced communication have furnished reliable

Information in the past.

DBO

4593/3

hie document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It se the propert

I the FBl and is loaned lo your agency: It and lis contents are not to be dietributed outaid

your agency.

109-5-14

---

