# 104-10130-10421

## Page 1

104-10130-10421

STANDARD FORM NO, BA

Office Memorandum' • UNITED SINTES GOVERNMENT

TO

Chief, Inspection and Security staff

THRU :

Chief,

Special Security Division

FROM

: Chief, Special Security Branch

SUBJBCI:

SNYDER, Richard Edward - 38984

DATE:

17 October 1949

I. The file of the subject person reveals the following information:

SIATUS

Subject is being considered for a position with OPC as an Intelligence

Officer, P-3, overseas.

BACKGROUND

Subject is 29 years of ago, married, and native born of native born

parents.

His wife is native born of naturalized Italian born parents.

Subject graduated from high sohool in 1937 and attended Rutgers

Colloge from 1939 to 1940. From 1937 to 1940 he was intermittently employed

is & salesman and stockboy. He served in the Army from 1940 until released

"rom active duty in January 1946.

While in the Army, he attended the Uni-

versity of Grenoble during the sunner of 1945. He attended Yale University

from 1946 to 1949 and was awarded an A.B. degree. From 1945 to 1949 he was

intermittently employed as a salesman, laborer, warehouseman, and mail carrier.

OTHER PERTINENT INFORMATION

Subject is very highly recommended as a young man of excellent

character, who is honest, trustworthy, discreet, and loyal. Nothing of an

adverse nature was noted in police or credit records.

Subject lists Reverend Benedotto Pascale as a character reference.

He highly recommended Subject and advised that he has known him for 12 years.

In 1948 Reverend Pascale, was listed as a signer of a telegram to

the Attorney General, protesting the government's "growing attacks on Negros,

foreign born Americans, and labor leaders.

He was also listed in 1948 as

a sponsor of a convention to defend the Bill of Rights.

99

Subiect's father was

A listed acquaintance advised that Subject had been more closely

attached to his mother than his father, and after his mother's death in ap-

proximately 1938, Subject lived with various relatives and this informant

stated that he did not believe Subject lived with his father since that time.

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

SEGRET

VIBR

---

## Page 2

Hemorandum to Chief, Inspection and Security Staff through Chief, Special

• Security Division from Chief, Special Security Branch, dated 17 October 1949.

Subject: SNYDER, Richard Edward - 38984•

-2=

Subject's father-in-law was born in Italy and entered the United

States in 1905.

He was naturalized in 1920. He is deceased.

Subject's mother-in-law was born in Italy and derived citizenship

by marriage to his father-in-law prior to 1922.

Subject's stepfather-in-law was born in Italy and entered the United

States in 1908•

He has not applied for U.S. citizenship. The records of the

Inmigration and Naturalization Service contained no derogatory information on

Subject's stepfather-in-law.

Subject lists two aunts and uncles on his Personal History State-

ment, who are Italian citizens residing in Italy.

in-law or stepfather-in-law.

Conclusion and Recommendation: In view of the highly favorable

information received relative to Subject's loyalty, there is no reason to

feel that he is in any way influenced by Reverend Pascale, a character ref-

erence, who in 1948 supported the Civil Rights Congress.

There is no indi-

that Subjeot has belonged to or supported the Civil Rights Congress

or any other questionable organization.

It is recommended that the exception to the exclusion clause,

Paragraph 2a, Administrative Instructions 102 requested in the attached

letter of justification, relative to Subject's stepfather-in-law, who is

an Italian citizen residing in the United States, be granted and Subject be

security approved for CLASSIFIED duties.

John I rome

GEORGE P. JOKER, JR.

Attachment

18 oxt49

Exception granted.

Security approved.

SEe Sanand

ChIet teS

SECRET

---

