# 104-10120-10410

## Page 1

104-10120-10410|,

•i :

1523*.

15*14221 1.965

lexico City

DiRICTOR

SECRET/RYBAT

D INDEX

31

D NO INDEX

ER FILE IN CS FILE NO. 201-253203

i/ze

Nots

PRIORITY

-i !

INTO AND, S/CT, DOS,

UBSR.30D

Baciground Use 5i

Me Net Neproduct

CITE DIR

PRTY MEXI

INFO:

:05:

RYBAT CURTIS FOR TESTRICTEO MANGLINE

EF: MEXI 2755 (IN 21133)*

1. BELIEVE BEST COURSE ACTION NOW IS TO RESOLVE QUESTION OF

ARA I REFERENCE SCONEST. THEREFORE DESIRE STATION CONTACT Y

ND INITIALLY EXPLAIN THAT ROUTINELY AND PERIODICALLY EVERYONE UNDER-

OES LCFLUTTER, POINTING OUT THAT INCIDENTALLY AN LCF OFFICER IS

I#PECTED IN AREA WEEK-END 20 MARCH FOR THIS PURPOSE.

* 2. AT SUBSEQUENT LEETING AFTER ONE C? TWO DAY INTERVAL, SUGGEST

TILNT STATION ENDEAVOR ON A FRIENDLY AND BUSINESSLIKE MANNER TO GIVE

I OPPORTUNITY TO CLAIRFY WHAT HE CARRIED FROM ZATZ TO DIAZ IN

AN 63 AND WHY HE FAILED TO REPORT TO HIS C/O. DURING THIS SECOND

LEETING WITH I ,

C/O MIGHT DWELL ON BROAD RANGE OF TOPICS THAT

¡ILL BE COVERED ALLEGEDLY ON BASIS OF SAVING HIS AND OPERATORYS TIME

ATER ON.

3. IN EVENT SUBJ AGREEABLE AND TIMING SATISFACTORY, HDQS HAS

ENOOR QUALIFIED INTERROGATOR READY GIVE TEST 20-21 MARCH. PLS

DVISE SOONEST.

CONTINUED.

3

2

HELEASING

OFFICER

cOoRdINATInG OFFICERS

SECRET/RYBAT

GROUP

downgrading

declassilicalian

AUTHENTICATING

OFFICER

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy No.

---

## Page 2

SECRET /EYBAT

•NeX

D NO INDEX

• FILE IN CS FILE NO.

5

8

10 .

1r.01: DIRECTOR

CONFE

10

PAGE TWO

3

* OPTURNTE GE

asckground Use On.)

• Do Not Pertoduae

INTO

INFO:

CITE DIR

92740

VII Comment:

07

*(TICHBORI did not report 1963 ZATZ contact to

Choaden. LICOOKY report indicates long_& close

to LCELUTTER.

CI/OA *

OS

(draft)

Bender/Stoaiken (draft)

. A

83

DESMOND FITZGERALD

CHIEF, WHD

CHÍEF, WH/1

NEGATING OFFICER

COORDINATING OFFICERS

SECRET/RYBAT

GROUP!

Excluded from automalis

downprading and

declasilication

REPRODU_.ION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING O.. ICE IS PROHIBITED.

AUTHENTICATING

OFFICEA

Copy No.

---

