# 104-10218-10093

## Page 1

104-10218-10093

CEORET,

15 October 1962

MEMORANDUM FOR:

SUBJECT

Chief, CI/OA

: Viola June COBB, C-83492

Reference:

Request for Information and Review,

9 October 1962

1. As requested in the reference, attached

hereto

is a copy of the technical interrogation of

Viola June COBB,

(Please return this file to

WH/3/Mexico for

Subject's 201).

2.

Staff D collateral information, routed

through CI/OA on 9 October 1962, provided no

derogatory infornation that is not included in

Miss COBB'S 201 file:

expulsion from Guatemala

in November 1961 after proof was obtained by the

Government of Guatemala "that she was a Castro

agent whose mission in Guatenala was to distribute

pro-Castro and Communist propaganda among university

students"; translator of a book written by former

Guatemalan President Juan Jose AREVALO, "The

Fable of the Shark and the Sardines," which assails •

government and business in the United States.

3.

Below is a summary of information from

Subject's 201 pertinent to the reference, with

attachments which are to be returned to WH/3/Mexico

for inclusion in Subject's 201.

Since Mexico City

Station has consistently provided information

concerning Subject and her relation to Station

operations and agents, no further field traces

will be requested unless requested by your office.

a. Viola June COBB, born in Ponca

SECRET

.....

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECRET

Page 2

home

City, for Mexico City in 1947-48

Oklahoma, on 24 August 1927, left

after

her father remarried.

She has since lived

in Ecuador, Cuba, and Mexico, and has

been involved with the men and politics

of a number of Latin Countries. During

these years she has developed a host of

friends and acquaintances, both U.S. and

Latin,

that includes political leaders,

journalists, diplomats, and men and women

from a number of professions, some of

which do not enjoy general social acceptance.

Her taste in friends is omnivorous.and

she embraces (sometimes literally) and

has access to extremists from both right

and left political groups and has variously

been accepted and distrusted 'by both pro=

and anti-u.s. interest groups.

(See List

of Associates, para. 3, d,1, below).

First

contacted

by a KUBARK Staff Employee in

Habana in 1960 when she was employed..by

the government of Fidel Castro, she reported

on Cuban personnel and activities until

she left Cuba and for sone time afterward.

She was picked up by Mexico Station in

December 1961 when she had lost her access

to Cuban targets and has been reporting

on the activities and thinking of various

Latin pro-Communist revolutionaries

including LINLUCK, a Communist Party

b.

She has intentionally of

unintentionally indicated her employment

with the U.S. Government to a number of

Intimates and acquaintances.

Persons

suspecting her association with U.s.

intelligence include the following:

Horacio GODOY, Argentine law professor;

SECRET

---

## Page 3

1d-0n0d

SEGRET

51 - 58

Page 3

Bayless MANNING, Yale University law

professor

Michael Sidney COLIN, U.S. citizen who

was associated with Willian L. Morgan

in Habana;

Rosalbo ROCA, close friend in New York

who is

a citizen of the Dominican Republic;

and Diane ALEXANDRIA, also a friend in

New York City on resident visa.

In March 1962 she was called before

the Senate Subcommittee on Internal

Security and questioned on Cuban associations

and activities.

To our knowledge, she

did not divulge any contact with

KUBARK.

As a result of this hoaring, she was

contacted by Drew Pearson's

Jack Anderson,

assistant,

and the interview resulted

in an article

in Parade, the Washington

Post, 12 August 1962.

d. Attached to this memorandum are

the following documents from Subject's

201 (to be returned to WH/3/Mexico):

1.

List of Associates of Viola June

2.

3.

COBB. (1960)

Memorandum to WH/3/Mexico, from

#H/A/CI (on Subject)

Menorandum for the Record (2 April

1962).

Contact report with Subject

concerning Senate Subcommittee

hearing.

4.

Article on Subject from Parade:

"Weet June Cobb."

Chief, WH/3

SECRET

---

