# 104-10167-10125

## Page 1

104-10167-10125

L"!.

< 920127

YEMORANDUN FOR THE RECO:

STAJECT: Jeephone Conversation with Bernie Reichherdt, 25 August

At 1100 bours 25 Angust Berrie Reichharat called FrE

03 Mien1 and asked for Tan Floreg, uto was not i0.

Ee then esked to

speak to se.

Ee said that in ascordance with our request, he had

established contaet with QDItAR ard asked hin 1f he could furnish

any alaltional Inforcation on the large revolutionary radio center

completed in March 1959, and on bagustin CaPO uto, according to

posEr?, vas the enginer in charge o construction of this radio

center.

QaEda said he was unable to add anything to the "nior-

nation he bad frnished in is arigital debrieft-e, an sald he

Ines nothing of the operations or voo was in charge of of employed

at the radio center.

lie repeated that the center las very large

and very expensive and said that CiFa had nade a trip so switzer-

land to bry the equipaent.

He volunteered inforrazion tiat sArO's

brother, Ernesto CAPO Jinenez de Ciszeros, was a Courist and that

he had seen Errasto at a meeting in Lavana, before SATISi: fell,

when clandestive plans were being meie to get hugus:in, ten treas-

arer of the 2tta of July Movesent, out of Cuba because his life vaB

In darger.

2oEaR said he didn't bow whether CAFO was s:ill con-

nected with the radio center, but somented that 1l'. co.tact could

be established CaPO would be able to furnish information soout the

center. I don't now what reply Reicccardt made to ODEl oa this,

bat he said to me that it was his urierstanding during b13 recent

trip to leadquarters that contacts on tce various operacional leads

furnished by

pail would be sade through the Farang Statlon, and

he assuned 1: was being done.

2.

Reichterdt said that he had not received the persoral docu-

Bests of aDCAR which had been forvarded from Bradquarters as a

separate attachaent to IN 8. He was told they left this office

on 20 August.

3. Reichbardt said that on the basis of iniorzation from

Station Favara (JdVÀ-2590 that fanly vere leaving ravana for Mexico

be norning of 21 august), Duidi bas called rexico last night anc

learred they bad not arrived. de vanted to know if any further in-

faration had been received fron latina about the famiiy, and was

told there bad been none.

Distribution:

1 - Roichtardt Conversations

1 • AO Chron

1 = QDCHAR

Martha Tharpe

MB/3/20

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Onty

Do Not Reproduce

V/GR

---

