# 104-10072-10188

## Page 1

1104-10072-10188

DISPATCH

- LA 33

CLASSIFICATION

RY BAT

• SECRET

CAUTION BLANK FORM REQUIRES

SECURE STORAGE

• IN FIELD

ORIGINA OR'S REQUEST PAR HOS. PROCESSIMO

INDEXING REQUESTED 21 PROC

80

NO INDEXING

Chief, LA Division

штю.

APERTURE CARD REQUESTED

Chièf, EUR

12031

(Chief

or Station, Ottawall win

RYBAT REAM PHABOVEZ

ACTION REGUIRED - RUERINCES

List of Anti-Castro Cuban Extles Including Dates of Birth !

Action:

FYI

WARNING NOTICE/ SENSIBIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES

AND METHODS INVOLVED

22

References:

A.

SOCOA719386, 12 August 1976

77601

7T-6

of anti-Castro Cuban

passed to Identity of referenge B by Cuban Deg Major Ivan FERNANDEZ

Rodriguez in response to EHABOVEs request for more identitying data on

the Cubans.

2. {HABOVE has passed the same information to their L.O. Office

in Washington and to LNERGO.

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

Aircrew M. Fondler

Matthew H. FONDER

A3573*C1

Attachment:

As stated h/w

FLORRAM.

Distribution:

2-C/LAw/att h/w

2 - C/EUR w/o/att

P, 159

ODUCTIONS

1tT2

CROSS CLASSES TO

17, E91

117,13

Lictor

RECORD COPY

22

CLAIRCAN

SEENET

CoP:

1602 10E

9605

& September 1926

19:2-10

08

---

## Page 2

14-00000

vanuel

ARTIMES BUESSA

DOB:

29 Jan 2932

Prudencio LAZO BENITEZ

DUB:

i. Jay 1921

AntOniO C. LUCAS VANICIANA

DOB:

18 00: 1928

JANEROS CRISPO

20B:

24 AiG 1929

JeSUS E: LAZO RIVERO

D03:

15 Oct 1924

Guido

DOB:

MARTINEZ VILCHES

27 Jan 1933_

Guido

MARTINEZ MUNOZ

DOB:

28 Dec: 1929

Quillermo A.

MIGUEL SANCHEZ

DOB :

21 40r 1930

•Orlando D.

AfITZA PEREZ

DOS: 20 NOV 1938

Ramon do

OROSCO

DOB:

7 Aug 1957

Kamiro (DE) LAFE PEREZ

DO3:

6 sept 1920

Alonso Inocenyh

VERA

DOS:

28 Jul 1928

Juan J.

PERULLERO RODRIGUEZ

293:

8 Mar 1930

Guillerno Novo MOREJON

DỌ3:

10 Feb 1923

Rafact I.

SERRALTA NOGUES

DOE: 2 Aug 1928

22

COCOA 19400

2J5

On 19400

- 2 -

38

Manti-Pro tra-Cuban

agle, on list proveded

(sume person proviously mentioned) by iNBOVES

(not mentioned previously by us

• OX

Cubans)

Axli

¡previous spelling by Cubans VECIANA,

Antonio no further names given)

/Believed to be the same person as

previously mentioned,

only JoIge JANERO

originally on Cuban list)

(Probably the Dame person as previously

mentioned)

(Unable to decide between MARTINEZ

VILCHES OF MERTINEZ MUNOZ.

Cannot

identify or match name with photographi

(Cannot match name with photograph

because of the similarity between

VILCHES and MUNOZ.

Cubans originally

gave the name Guido MARTINEZ)

(Believed to be the same person as

Guillerno MIGUEL previously mentioned

by the cubans. Birthdate matches FBI)

(Not previously mentioned by the Cubans.

However, could possibly be orlando

ATIENZA)

(Believed to be the same person as

previously mentionda oy the Cubans)

(Identified as che same

mentioned by the cubans person proviously.

(Not believed to be same person as

Alão VERA previously mentioned by

the Cubans)

(Probably the same person as Juan Jose

PERUYERO previously referred to by

the Cubans)

(Appears that Novo MOREJON is not tha

same peison as luvo SAMPOs previoualy

identified by us.

¡Identified as tho same person as

previously mentioned by the Cubans)

19-00.16

RECORD COPY

---

## Page 3

14.00000

Oscar

DOB:

I..

ACEVIDO ALEYAN

13 Mas 1930

122;

ISIZE

203:

VARONA VARJONA

Zà Mar 1953

31 May 1932

203:

DINO CASTRO

20 Jan 1932

D03:

DINO SPENGLER

13. 221

1940

CElando BOSCH DELUSA

DOB: 19 NOV 1925.

Luis

DOB:

FASIAN PENDAS

15 Nay 1928

(originally referred to by the Cubans

as. Oscar Luis ACEVEDO.

The FBI points

out spelling should be Oscar duis

ANA RACEREDO.

Cuban and*FBI DOB's match.

Thorefore it is felt that all are

talking about the same person.

This

individual has been identifiad)

originally. referred to by the Cubans

as

Carlos

DE VARONA:

The FBI had no

IECOId Of a DE VARONA)

(The Cubans referrer'

to a Israel

DEL FIÑO originally.

The FBI believed

DEL DINO tO be

same person as

ISIaal PINO-RAOS, DOB:

29 Aug 36.

Obviously they are not the same person)

(The three PINO's mentioned

are not tho

säme person and it is impossible to

natch the correct one to the photograph

without further particulars)

icanno: establish which Israel PINC

matches the photograph.

Therefore he

cannot identify subject accurately)

(It has now been established that the

¿Orlando BOSCH previously referred to by

the Cubans and identified as Orlando

BOSCH AVILA are not one and the

sane

persons.

We also cannot establiah

whether or not Orlando BOSCH and Orlande -

BOSCH dELUSA are one and the same person!

(The FABIAN previously mentioned by the

Cubans

and the Luis M. FABIAN PENDAS

mentioned here are probably the same,

person and the name,

DOB and photograph

represent one aná the saño person)

(PUIZ has been identifica)

(Not previously referred to by the Cubane)

RECtOr SiROnSO RUIZ

DOB :

12 May 1939

Arel

SALVADOR GLEZ

DOB:

5 dug 1943

JeSUs DOMINGUEZ BENITEZ

DOB:

15 Feb 1941

Ramon

OROSCO RODRIGUEZA

003:

24 dug 1922

This

(BENITEZ has been identified)

(Cannot identify OROSCO RODRIGUEZ

definity.

Ho could also be identical to

the original name referred to by tha

cuban and could match the photo.

GUITONE-

1: 4.0.26 0

¿y we have three Rason OROSCO°&

115:0d;

"....

SECRET

---

## Page 4

14-00000

SE:

11 Ranor. A. OROSCO, 21 Ranon ORosco

RODRIGUEL, inS 31 RaMOn CROSÇO CRESPO

(Believed to be the same person

previously mertioned.

Name and

birth

dates match).

Rolando federici riNGiUON

DOB: 18 JuL 1939.

dullabs Roller

MOS:

24 00: 1830

JOIGE RODRENG

1936

ARGeL JUSTINIANO FERRER

203: 28 Aug 1225

Conradio RODRIGuEl

SANCHEZ

DOB :

12 res 1219

/aclioved to be ine sume person as

previously mentioned;

¡Believed to be the sane person as

previously mentioned by Cubans ang seems

to natch Fal!

(rais individual has been identitied)

---

