rost0216-10710 : fucmen :
2 Ht :

Summary of Contacts with : | ‘i

AMMHIP/1 and AMLASH/L vo Ble

HELSINKI:
1. Events of 30 July 1962. :
AWHIP arrived in Helsinki on 30 July 1962. He called HBFINGH

according to plan, and after his second call (due to his hotel porter's :

Fi abysmal understanding of English), Fallucci established contact with :
i AMWHIP without further difficulty. The meeting took place in the :
4 restaurant of his hotel, he ‘jaakuna, and later in his room. We had : !
i not at this time located AMLASH, so the time was spent briefing AMMHIP H
Hl on the local scene, and on his conduct with AMLASH when they met. The :
i meeting lasted about one and a half hours. ‘ | ‘6
j Later the sane day we called AMMHIP at his hotel to report : :
H ho progress in locating AMLASH. Feeling it advisable to keep AMMIP : !
4 occupied, we took him out to dinner at Fisketorpet, located in the : :
| suburbs of Helsinki. ‘The evoning lasted until 1200, terminating with a ee
f drink at the roof bar of the Yaakuna. During the six hours, we had an ii
H cpportunity to explain carefully to AMWHIP that in order for us to help |
f bis friend, AMLASH mst be willing to follow our directions and agree to
g- certain conditions (already agreed upon by interested Has. parties).
: AMWHIP realized that this was necessary, and agreed with our ideas. However, F j
4 he is attached to AMLASH, and will continue to look upon him in the most
: EI benevolent and subjective manner, This being rather far removed from our
# intended approach to, and opinion of AMLASH. AMMHIP will require handling
i
g i
ke



¥

i
&
x
:
t
‘
i
i
i
i
i
Fi
a
:
&

:
‘

position in this matter. We closed the meeting by telling him that we
would have an effort made in the morning to locate AMLASH, and that he
might as well relax, sight-see ii he wished, and that we would be in touch
with him at intervals during the day.
2. Events of 31: July 1982.

Our efforts to locate AMLASH through UNRUMBLE/2 proved to be
fruitless. Theadore T. Wintergrst, who was handling UNRUMBLE/?, said
that the latter tried his best, but had not been able to do us any good.

The Station also reported that its contacts had been unable to aid us.

We reported to AMWHIP the fact that we had not located AMLASH, and suggested

that we have dinner together, to which he agreed, We met AMHIP at 2100

at our hotel, the Kamp, and proceeded to the Royal Restaurant for dinner,
AMGHIP was obviously getting on pins and needles because we had not found
his friend. He suggested that we call up the Cuban Festival delegation,

or try some hotels that evening. We persuaded him that it was not the

best idea yet, and to give other people nore time to locate him. He

agreed, but kept coming up with ideas all evening for ways to locate AMLASH.
He suggested that AMLASH lixed night clubs, and that after dinner we could
Perhaps try several, We agreed, more to placate him that with any thoughts

of success. We tried several, the Bruunsparken and the Theater Grill,

both of which were filled with drinking Finns, but no signs of AMLASH. the
Finns, engaging in their national pastine, obviously irritated AMHIP, and
after being pushed around in the Theater Gril] for an hour, he said that

he thought this was a waste of time. We agreed, grabbed a taxi and went
home, During the evening, ve told AMMHIP that tomorrow morning, if nothing
had turned up, we would start by calling the better hotels in town ourselves,
and try this rather laborious method to locate AMLASH. We agreed to meet



between 9 and 10 o'clock at our hotel,
3. Events of 1 August 1962.

AMMHIP arrived at our hotel at O945 on 1 August, and we retired
to our room to telephone. Securing an outside line, our friend began
to telephone. We decided to try the local "pink" hotels first, the Klaas
Korkki, and the Torni, AMWHIP had no luck with the Klaas Korkkj, but when
he called the Torni, he was told that AMLASH was there, and was connected
with room No. 201. A Spanish-speaking man (who was later identified as
the newly appointed Cuban Diplomatic Representative to Finland) answered
the phone in 201 and said that AMLASH was in the shower, and call back
later if it was important. AMWHIP left a message that he was from Mexico
and that he, "Carlos", would call back. During the break, we instrected
him to be careful on the telephone, and to talk as if the opposition was
listening. He was just to be casual, greet ANLASH, arrange to see him,
saying that he was in Europe on business in Scandinavia, France and Switzerland,
and that hearing in Helsinki that AMLASH was attending the Festival, he
had decided to stop over and contact him. When AMLASH answered the phone,
AMWHIP's face lit up, caution was abandoned, and he was off at a rapid
rate in Spanish, AMLASH said that he would be right over to see AMWHIP
in his room at the Yaakuna. We briefed AMNHIP once more on being careful,
and showed AMWHIP to the door. We arranged to have AMMHIP call us when
he could at the office, urging him once more to be careful and discreet.
We hope he has been, It was later learned that finding AMLASH in this
hotel room was pure good fortune, as he was just using this room to take

a shower, since he was still residing in.the quarters of the common delegates.



AWARIP talked to AMLASH for at least seven hours, from about

1000 in the morning until approximately 1700 the same evening. When AMJHIP:

called us at 1730, he presented us with the fact that he had convinced

AMLASH to talk with us, and for this purpose, he had arranged a dinner
meeting that same evening for approximately 1930. We would have preferred

to talk longer with AMMHIP about AMLASH's reactions, but time did not
permit, We arranged a dinner for 2100 at "Ihe uhite Lady", a restaurant

some vay from the center of town, and succeeded in obtaining a private H

dining room, a practice not uncommon in this Station-recomnended restaurant,
as it 4s often used by businessmen to have private dinners and afterwards,
business discussions.

We arrived at the White Lady first, arranged for the dinner, and
awaited AMHHIP and AMLASH, who arrived at 2110 by taxi. Although AMVHIP
had suggested to us that the discussions should be merely devoted to ae
getting acquainted the first evening, AMLASH commenced almost immediately i
into a discussion of his feelings and, his position concerning Cuba today.”
As reported in our cable, Cc] 1609) AMLASH was quite intense, and showed
the strain of his unexpected meeting with AMMHIP. Although obviously

| under emotional strain, AMLASH presented his feelings in a relatively calm

manner, and was given to discussing then throughout the meal. He said he ny
was considering not going back to Guba, but after talking to AMWHIP, he i
felt that if he could do something really significant for the creation of ae
a new Guba, he was interested in returning to carry on the fight there. ! ee
He said he was not interested in risking his life for any small undertaking, ' 1 :

‘but that if he could be given a really large part to play, he would use i ;

himself and several others in Cuba whom he could rely upon. These he said \



eo

SIERO BRON AS Ee REBEIME EMO ANEDSE RRPAB rs eroennteo

included two majors (one of which AMWHIP later reported was a militia
commander in the center part of the island), two captains, and several
others whom AMLASH said he could trust, but whom he would not nae.

AMLASH said he had had plane to blow up an oil refinery, as he felt that
the continuing existence of a senblence of normal functicning in Cuba
depended upon a contiming supply of petroleum, supplies of which, as we
know, are at a critical stage today. He also wanted to plan the execution
of Carlos Rodriguez and the Soviet Ambassador, and also to eliminate Fidel,
by execution if necessary, He feels that if Fidel is eliminated, it would
be much easier to effect a take-over, (We listened for the most part, but
at this point tried to explain to AMLASH that men like Rodrigues could easily
be replaced by Moscow, and that the killing of the Soviet Ambassador, would
have only the briefest effect on the Soviet control of Cuba.) AMLASH was

not too interested in listening at this point, and contimed by saying that
1f he could achieve all these actions, plus others, in one master stroke,

a take-over, during the ensuing confusion, would be mch facilitated. He

Gid not feel that Raul or Che would be able to rally the people in sufficient
time to prevent opposition forces fram forming. His argunents and plans had
many flaws, but AMWHIP could not help admiring (to himself) AMLASH's
professed desire for vigorous and, hepefully, effective actions, designed

to alter the situation in no uncertain terms. While we were making no

committments or plans, we pointed out to AMLASH that schemes like he envisioned

certainly had their place, but that a lot of coordination, planning, infornation-

collection, etc., were necessary prerequisites to ensure the value and success
of euch plans. AMLASH said he agreed with this, but we weren't too sure just
how mich of this argument AMLASH was willing, or would be willing, to buy.

i
}



AMLASH made it clear during the discussions that he was completely

% against Fidel's use of Soviet help from the first, but he had never envisioned,

that even if it vere used, just how ineffective it really would be towards

solving Cuba's problems. He still feels strongly, he said, about the

eer

Plight of the lower classes in Cuba, and in any future Cuba, he would still
insist on a new deal for then, AMLASH said that although he had not been
effective in helping the formation of a beneficial new Government in Cuba,
he was now prepared to work towards that end, This time, he said, he

wanted to look more towards the future, both for his own interests and for

Cuba's. The last time, he said that he thought only as far as the elimination

é

of Batista, and had not given consideration to planning for a government he

favored after the fighting was over. We felt that AMLASH meant that he was = t

as mich concerned about his (AMLASH's) position in the government and

personal stake in a new Cuba, as he was about anything else. It is our

impression that AMLASH feels that he did not get his share of the spoils rae
or power from the Castro regime, in proportion to his contribution against

Batista. AMLASH is a complicated personality. It is difficult to fairly

Judge, at this time, AMLASH's degree of concern for a truly revolutionized

3

Guba for the people's benefit, vs his concern to see a new government in
Cuba in which he gets just recognition, This does not necessarily mean
that AMLASH wants high political office, but he does want credit for his
efforts and the resultant power and prestige among his countrymen.

In addition to his concern for the manner in which the Soviets are
using Cuba for their own designs in Latin America, AMLASH is worried about
vy the extent to which Castro is using the Soviet technique of capturing the

ninds of the young people and the mass propaganda efforts against the masses.

REAR I ER NRNetr etait tere cane er est eee PSNR



a

circles and organizations in Miami, He. said that he feels these are still |

He feels certain that in a couple of years, the young people will be capletely

and irrevocably won over to Castro, and that the masses will begin to believe

the intense anti-American, anti-West propaganda to which they are subjected.
Just as great as are AMLASH's fears about the Castro's winning of i

young minds, is his concern tht the USA will begin to consider a status

quo for Cuba, and in the event of any intense and successful anti-regine

activity, such as he plans, and which looks as if it might depose the regine,

PBPRIME will withdraw its eupport from such efforts in the face of serious

threats from the Soviets. Although AMLASH did not say dt in so many words,

it was apparent from the discussions that AMLASH would prefer to be able to

free Cuba without any outside support (and by inference, obligations), but

he is a realist enough to concede that any efforts to overthrow astro

must have the support of PBPRIME. He is, therefore, willing to enter into

discussions with a representative (s) of PBPRIME towards this end. i
AMLASH agreed to meet in Paris for the purpose of further debriefings

and to give any information in any field which he has. He is also most

willing to discuss any plans which may lead to an overthrow of the present

government, AMLASH stated many times, however, during the course of the ay

meetings, that he was only interested in involving himself in a plan of

significant action, and which was truly designed to achieve rapidly his desire

to help Cuba, (He told AMWHIP later after we had left the meetings, that
he was afraid that PEPRIME would continue to pursue its present course,
that of providing money and ideas, but no ACTION! ) AMLASH was also most :
adanant about not becoming involved in any way with the Cuban refugee

the same people who left Cuba, i.e., willing to wait for the chance to return
and again pursue their only interest , that of making money. He also said

i.
i
i
i



‘
A

snehe

=f

he felt that the Cubans there were completely penetrated by Castro informants,
and that for them to know of his cooperation with PBPRIME, would be the same
&8 telling Castro, and thus his future would end against the Wall! We
assured him that maximum security would be practiced, as far as tiese people
were concerned. He also does not wish to trust or be involved with, any
contract Cubans. Only re Preis does he wish to deal. (Along this Line,!
AMHIP stated that he did not think it advisable to reveal any of these
negotiations to AMCONCERT/1, whom AYAHIP has known for many years and is
quite friendly, but whom he does not feel can keep a secret of this nature.)

This meeting terminated at 0030 on 2 August. ‘The three participants
took a taxi together back to town. AMHHIP and AMLASH stopped off at a local
night club, Teatgy) Grilien, while we continued on to our hotel. No incidents
of a security nature were observed, and it was felt that the meeting was
held without the knowledge or observation of the opposition.

hk. Meeting of 2 August 1962.

We met with AMWHIP in his hotel room (No. 1h2 at the Vaakuna) at
1700 hours on 2 August. We discussed the events and talks of the preceding
evening for some time, At approximately 1600, AMLASH arrived, greeted
us affably, and Joined us for a drink. AMLASH used this meeting to re-
State his position concerning his desire for participation in a really
Significant action against the Castro regine. Having decided by this time
that further discussions and debriefings of AMLASH should take place with
4 Spanish-speaking C/O, we outlined the idea to meet for such a purpose in
Paris, AMLASH did not like the idea of too many People being aware of his
cooperation with PEPRIME, but agreed that it would be best in order to

, “Low himself to express his ideas and plans better, and to be able to provide

us with his informatio in the greatest possible detail.

aE Cinistoomacdincta

{



oy

We persuaded AMWHIP and AMLASH

furthe meetings with them in Helsinki, but that we could continue our talks

that it would be best not to have

in greater safety in Stockholm and Paris, They agreed. AMLASH also said

that he felt that he shouldn't sc2 AMWHIP too mich more in Helsinki, as he

was beginning now to make some public appearances, and his presence was now

established to everyone in the city. Incidentally, prior to Thursday,

2 August, AMLASH had purposely refrained from making any public appearances

at the Festival because (1) he and the other Cubans had been aware of the

AMSPELL group and their announced intentions, and (2) AMLASH did not feel

very disposed to play the "Public Relations" man from Cuba and espouse the

"peace and friendship nonsense", as he called it.

However, AMLASH also said

that he felt that he had better perform this role to some extent, as it was

expected of him by Fidel, and he did not

wish to provide any unnecessary

chances for unsatisfactory reports to be set back home concerning his lack

of cooperation with the Cuban delegation.

@ Paris meeting and further discussions,

In making the arrangements for
AMLASH said, in response to the

question, that it would be quite normal for him to be in Paris, as he had

already cleared this with Fidel, with whom, he renarked caustically, one

had to clear everything these days. He then expressed the idea that he

would like to return to Paris, via Stockholm, and at AMWHIP's suggestion,

spend a few days there just relaxing, Fr
return to Prague for two days at most, in
then come as soon as possible to Paris.

hospital or two, as agreed upon with Fide
a week there. He said that if he was to

efforts, he did not wish to be away fron

9-

‘om there, or Copenhagen, he would
order to pick up his luggage,
There, he intended to visit a

1, and spend a total of at least
return to Cuba to begin his

Cuba any longer than necessary,

dataicany,



(He has, it 1s noted, a sense of urgency in beginning action against the )
regime as soon as possible.) AMNHIP told us later that AMLASH also was
interested in a Pan American Migsiebased stewardess, whom he would have
come over to stay with him. AMMHIP suggested to us that he thought the
stewardess might be connected with PBPRIME. He based this apparently on

@ remark which the stewardess made concerning AMLASH's political frame of
mind last year. We answered that as far as we knew there was no basis for
AMWHIP's thoughts along this line.) AMWHIP will try to get the stewardess
full name for us.

Meeting arrangements for Stockholm and Helsinki were laid on at
this meeting. AMLASH felt he had to stay until the end of the Festival for
cover purposes, Since AMWHIP had already accidentally run into several
people he knew, it was agreed that he should leave town for Stockholm in
the near future. We would remain behind until AMLASH left, serving as an
emergency contact in the event of change in AMLASH's plans. It was arranged
to meet AMLASH if absolutely necessary, at either 1200 or 1800 each day
at a given restaurant in the center of the city. Normal security measures
for the "emergency" meeting were laid on. In Stockholm, meeting arrangements
for Paris will be established. AMWHIP departed Helsinki 5 August and is
Presumably staying at the Palace Hotel in Stockholm; he will make arrangenents
for accommodations for AMLASH there. We will follow AMLASH to Stockholm.

5. Helsinki Meetings between AMWHIP/1 and Fallucci.

AMJHIP and Fallucei were in public together only three tines for

any length of time. Other meetings were held in their respective hotel rooms.

One breakfast meeting (the 5th of August) was held in the near-deserted

ent

-lo-

Sees ae

shai eis “0



dining room of the Yaakuna Hotel at 1030. AMMHIP and Fallucci met at least
once a day during the sojourn in Helsinki, AMWHIP used the name William *
‘Thompson, as instructed, when calling HBFINCH to make initial contact.

There were no incidents of a security nature observed during any of these
meetings.

6. Other Youth Festival Targets.

This area covered by cables 58h and 1609. The best

and, actually, only possibility among the participants was Jose Venegas.
However, both AMLASH and AMMHIP did not want to become involved with him

as they felt that this, in both their cases, might compromise their
interests in AMLASH's returning to Cuba. AMWHIP felt, for example, that
Venegas would almost certainly connect his presence here with an attempt to
do something with AMLASH. AMLASH also felt that he did not want to disclose
any indications of his real sympathies to Venegas, if he (AMLASH) were going
to return to Cuba. Without doing this, it would be difficult to get any
reactions or opinions from Venegas, thought AMLASH. Venegas, it is felt

by AMLASH, might very possibly be counted on at a later date if this was
desirable, An approach could then be worked out at that time.

As reported, AMLASH came to the Festival as a "special delegate,”
after his request to Fidel was approved. AMLASH claimed to Fidel that he
was fatigued and sick and needed a good rest in Europe. The Festival
provided the excuse, Fidel bit the bait, and AMLASH got to Europe to see
AMWHIP, his original intention, AMNHIP felt that this is a logical and
honest explanation. It is interesting to note. that neither the local
service, U/2, or any of the Cuban delegates he asked, could determine the
whereabouts of AMLASH- It is perhaps reasonable to assume that the Cubans
were told not to tell of his presence to anyone not from their immediate

i
£



genes

7. ‘AMIHIP's Role in AMLASH Talks.

AMAHIP has been most helpful and cooperative in establishing
the initial contacts with AMLASH, and he undoubtedly does have mich
influence over AMLASH. ANLASH also trusts AMWHIP explicitly, as evidenced
by his remark to us that AMWHIP was the only one whom he felt that he
could fully trust and to whom he could speak openly. Of course, he did
speak openly at length to us at the behest of AMNHIP, tut it is also
obvious that he des not tell us everything. AMWHIP has given good advice
in the handling of AMLASH, but, as he has a tendency to interpret AMLASH's
remarks and feelings subjectively, and to attempt to guide us a bit too
much, it might be wise to eliminate in later portions of the talks in Paris.
With a Spanish-speaking C/O, this should not be too difficult to do, and
Without alienating AMWHIP. AMWHIP has no clandestine training to speak of,
as evidenced by his actions in this case. However, to his credit, he
responds readily to directions in this area, and follows rather well suggestions
for adding to the security of the meetings. His remark about the
advisability of keeping his old friend AMCONCERT/1 out of the operation or
from any knowledge thereof, is gratifying. AMNHIP also has gently explained
to us, that while he is a Cuban at heart and loves the Cubans, they simply
cannot be trusted to keep secrets among any of their friends who, for no
real tested reasons, they consider safe and discreet. As a general
statement, we feel that AMWHIP is a good security risk operationally, and
that with more exposure to the game, will become a good and useful asset

under almost any cireunstance, He is, however, somevhat subconsciously

subjective about his evaluations of AMLASH. He is completely honest, and is

using considerable amount of his own money, not to mention time, in this
operation. We only hope his faith in AMLASH is justified.

oe al



rrcmeeraNeremmmntttnenheie nnntn n edenein an tem He VN

}

"Pps Parcomcmty acne hare nnn anni acta irae tan

3
tha

labiahenteenien se

sy

8.. Evaluation of and Comments about AMLASH.
ee

Our initial comments forwarded in cable Hels 1609 remain unchanged.

We have seen too little of, and cannot converse in the native language of
AMLASH, to make an: strongly valid assessment of him to date. In the
second meeting with AMLASH, he was considerably more relaxed than in the
first, but just as intense about his convictions...or seemingly so. AMLASH
stated that, having decided to return to Cuba, he would enrole in an
officers! refresher type course at Matanzas in an effort to renew old

Army contacts, re-assert his position as a major in the Revolutionary Army,
and attempt to re-establish some recognition and following in Army and other

Government circles.

For the sake of completeness, we repeat our comments regarding

AMLASH fron 1609:

He appears capable of rash, thoughtless, violent
action under the strain of provocation, tense situations,
or frustration. For example, he stated to us that last year
during @ period of dejection and frustration, he had con.
templated suicide. Although AMLASH appeared to concede
sone validity to our arguments for planning and for
carefully prepared actions, we feel that he will present
difficult control and directional problens in any op
Situation. He himself stated several times that he
is not the type to sit tight, but prefers solutions
to problems by violent, positive actions. AMLASH
showed the strain of not trusting anyone. He was according
to AMWHIP, overjoyed to see him, and talked very, very
much about many, many subjects. It is not possible
to comment at this time about AMLASH's capacity for
loyality to friends or causes, nor his willingness to
see a job through. However, AMEIP assures us that
when AMLASH says he'll do something, he will, We
don't know at this point,

AMNHIP also told us that in discussions subsequent to our meetings

with AMLASH, he expressed the hope that "Bill" and his friend (s) in Paris
» “will have a really fruitful, forceful idea and plan of action for him to

follow, Otherwise, he said he might drop the whole idea and not go back,

aes a

eecnene

8



[

wut to forget the whole problem, leave the Cuban fold quietly, and work
in Paris or elsewhere, forgetting completely Cutan problems and Cuban
polities.

AWWHIP also told us on Sunday that he was truly surprised when
AMLASH said he wanted to go back and fight. AM/HIP was sure, as were we,
that he would defect, period. AMLASH told AMVHIP that he could not see
the point of making a statement regarding defection and the state of affairs
in Guba, and then accepting a dole in Mian. Nor could he see any use in
Propaganda efforts in Latin America or Europe. Later, after our talks
wth him, AMLASH told AMWHIP a little different story, i. e., that he
wld not want to make a public defection statement, because of the
Probable repercussions against his friends in Cuba for no good rea:on.
This area of thinking needs to be examined at length in Paris. A Spanish-
speaking C/O might well do the trick.
STOCKHOLM:

7
g: Travel to Stockholm,

AMSHIP departed Helsinki for Stockholm on b August. Both AMMIP
and AMLASH felt that they had been together enough in Helsinki. AMWIIP
also ran onto a refugee newspaper friend of his in Helsinki who was
quite curious as to why ANHHIP was there. AMLASH departed Helsinki in the
afternoon of 7 August; we tock the sane flight unbelmownst to AMLASH.

No problems were encountered in arriving at Stockholm. We took the next

bus after AMLASH to the city. Both AMLASH and AMMHIP stayed at the
Palace Hotel, room 828 and 970, respectively.

Talks of a general nature

were held in our hotel room (the Carlton) and during the several dinners.
Tt was obvious that AMLASH had much on his mind. He can return to the

|
‘



subject of Cuba at anytime, with a question, suggestion, or comment upon
it, regardless of the context of the general discussion. It was during
the talks in Stockholm that AMMHIP revealed that, AMLASH had told
Naranjo, Revellon, Venegas, and the "Mayor of Sasa", Mansel DoMmocES
Vetdes (23, (in Helsinki) that he was seeing AMWHIP. In Helsinki, he
also told +46 Fayor Doningues to tell Raul thet he was going on his
present itinerary, and that he wanted a refresher course in the Army when
he returned home.
COPENHAGEN:

10. ‘Travel to, and Stop in Copenhagen.

AMLASH and AMAHIP took SAS flight 107 to Copenhagen on the after-
noon of 10 August. In speaking at length about meeting in Paris, AMLASH
felt sure that there would be no problem in getting penmission to visit
Paris after returning to Prague. He felt that he better not visit Paris
first, as it might cause some undue interest in Prague Cuban circles
as to why he was away so long. He also had sone trouble in getting the Air-
Line to approve his side trips to Stockholm and Copenhagen. They wanted
him to fly direct to Prague from Helsinki. He refused their requests,
ad said that he would pay his own way to Stockholm and Copenhagen (or
the difference) if need be. ‘This he finally had to do, for which AMNHIP
footed the bill. (perhaps we should later absorb). (We felt that this
ability to pay for the extra routing might cause sone suspicion anong his
colleagues. AMLASH said "no", but ve are not so sure. Perhaps he can tell
them, should they be curious, that AMNHIP paid the bill, as all kmow he
has money and has, in fact, paid bills before for AMLASH during the tine

of the Batista regime.)

|
i
i



11. Copenhagen, 10 August 1952.
AMAHIP and AMLASH arrived as scheduled in Copenhagen and obtained
Yooms at the Richmond Hotel. AMJHIP phoned HBFINCH as planned and ve
in turn contacted them by phone at the Richmond at 1645. A meeting was
arranged for 2000 at the bar of the Terminus Hotel. After a drink, the
party retired to Divan I for dinner. Apparently the spell of Tivoli,
Danish food and snaps, and beer at the student's inn, Faergekroen ( in
Tivoli), served to mellow AMLASH. He for the first time appeared to talk
to us as a friend, rather than as a PEPRIME representative. During
supper, and for most of the evening, at intervals, AMLASH talked about
himself, his thoughts, and problems. The evening was well worth it, in
terms of the rapport and insight gained.
12. AMLASH's Thoughts and Personality.
AMLASH feéls basically that he would like to live in a world in
peace under an acceptable political ‘system, practicing medicine, thus
giving expression to his desire to help the less-fortunate people, and from

this to find happiness for himself, something he seeks, but which heretofore

has eluded him, As a young student he got into the struggle against
Batista without thinking mich about the future, particularly that it
could be less than perfect. He soon found that the opposing parties in
Cuba, and in particular the Commmists, were not about to bring true peace
and contentment to the people, but rather through mismanagement and poor
planning, had created unnecessary hardships for the people. After his
fighting time was over (or so he thought), AMLASH became a student again
and leader of the FEU. This did not satisfy him and he sought to leave

_ Politics all together, and return to medicine. ‘The political clinate,

vce ea etn Dantes seis

Sirs anator



ea

|
|

however, aiid the acceptance of AMLASH as a military leader by the people } |
rather than as a doctor (Hello Compandante! not, Hello Doctor!) forced '
er !
AMLASH to reconsider his future, and to decide that he mst flee Cuba or|
fight against what he considers a ruinous future for his country and,
her people. ‘This time, however, he hopes to make the "operation"
successful, and never again subject the patient to another such ordeal.
Then when he is sure that the political and social outlook for the
Cuban people and the country are sound, he would like to try once more
to enter private life as a doctor. He is not sure, however, that this
will ever came about. AMLASH was also quite frank, we thought, in his
conversation with us concerning his views on the PBRPIME position vis-a-
vis Latin America, (And, although he had nothing to say uhich has not been
said by many before him, they were interesting to hear from a disenchanted
Cuban revolutionary.) He feels that PBFRIME is simply not getting "through"
to the youth and students of Latin America, as are the Commnists, and for
this simple reason alone, the next ten years (when these students become
the political and economic leaders in Latin America) will see us lose
the struggle for Latin America. We replied by using the old line that
PBPRIME realizes only too well today that there were serious short-comings
in our Latin American policy for a number of years and that now we are
doing what we can to correct this. However, it is not our policy (said
with tongue in cheek) to attempt to alter these conditions or influence
future events by going behind the backs of the established governments in
the various Latin American countries. Instead, we must take the often
slow, laborious path of working through these governments, however bad
they may be, in our attempts to guide and influence the minds of Latin

{



American youth. AMLASH said that he understood why we take this point H
of view, but nevertheless, if we intended to win. the struggle, we mst

do as the Communists do, and disregard the archaic and doomed old-line
governments in Latin America, We agreed that this was undoubtedly the

more agressive way to deal with the problem, but that such methods would
leave us open to the old familiar charges of interference in the internal
affairs of sovereign countries. AMLASH smiled and replied that from a
practical viewpoint this didn't make any difference, for if we didn't

act forcefully and soon, there wouldn't be any opportunities there for us
to be open to anything! He then cited Venezuela as the next obvious
Communist victim and thereby a loss of another opportunity for PBPRIME.
Obviously AMLASH was correct in much of his thinking, but rather than stand-
ing still with our shoes untied, we gave him the ball by soliciting from
him, as a former student leader and politician, any ideas he might have

for combating the Communists in the struggle for the minds of Latin
American youth. He replied that he would be glad at any time to disucss
this problem and to offer what ideas and suggestions he could.

: As a result of the discussions of this evening, we felt that.
AMLASH now was genuinely interested in getting Cuba out of its present
predicament with the active aid of PBPRIME. AMLASH seemed more sincere
and interested in discussing his thoughts and problems with us than at
any previous time, He no doubt skimmed over in his own mind (or at least
declined to reveal this to us) his record as president of the FEU. The
full story of this period from his side would be most interesting.
However, we felt that a discussion of this particular subject required the

use of Spanish and the propitious moment.

Sa praentn

BEN Aine Lee oan



2 eerste eae REE tt maces ste narrates erent pttecieantaneearvnanenee

aS a =e

As a matter of record, AMLASH stated during the evening that he |

had met Algeria's Ben Bella at one time and knows him more than casually.

He felt that the man bears strict. watching by the West as a measure of

: Protecting its interests in developments in Algeria. AMLASH thought

: Ben Bella was a clever man, devious, and anbitious, and not to be taken too
literally at his word.

In dealing with AMLASH, one trait of his which confronts the c/o
at every tyfin is his tempermental reactions over points which would

sate

generally be considered minor. For example, at one time when we were
@iscussing the various aspects of AMLASH's future role in Cuba, we used
the term "assassinate". ‘The use of this term, we later learned from

AMGMHIP and from AMLASH himself, was most objectionable to the latter, and
he was visibly upset. It was not the act he objected to, but rather merely
the choice of word used to describe it. "Eliminate" was acceptable, but
obviously the term "assassinate" had a distasteful connotation. From
discussions with AMWHIP, this labY€ of "assassin" had been given to
AMLASH after some of his escapades against Batista supporters in the
pre-Castro era, Another example, which AMWHIP discussed with us, occurred
Guring a meeting in Mexico City in March 1961, when a KUBARKER said to
AMLASH, "I'm prepared to help you in any way within my power", According
to AMIHIP, AMLASH later turned to him, shrugging his shoulders in a manner
of saying, "So I need help from him?" These examples are pointed out
here in order to indicate the degree of pride and sensitivity one find's
in AMLASH, and to note that however tedious this attitude may become to
the C/O, it is, from personal experience, quite necessary to adjust one's
approach accordingly in order to secure AMLASH's maximim cooperation.

apenas ammeter a os an ani bean

i
he

i

§ degse nptmemeines



4
i
i
t
H
i
i
i
FH
3
H
i
i

13. Paris Meeting Arrangerients.
AMLASH has been given AMWHIP's hotel in Paris, Franklin Hotel,
19 Rue Buffault (telephone TRU 6940). AMWHIP will reserve a room there for
AMLASH, who can come there directly after he has landed in Paris. We
also had another contact address in the form of the office of a jeweler
friend and business contact of AMHHIP's; M. B. Rosenblatt, 20 Cite-Trevise
(Telephone TAI-7438). Rosenblatt's number has Rot been given to AMLASH.
In discussing security precautions with AMWHIP, it is obvious, that he
still is not possessed of a good sense of security by normal clandestine
ops standards. This, however, can be improved over a period of time.
Note: Subject expressed interest in obtaining :
expert instruction in use of silenced-equiped :
rifles and in use and handling of plastic :
explosives. This can be handled from France i

on priority basis, it is felt, after preliminary \
discussions in Paris.

Events of 12 August 1962.
According to prior arrangenents with AMMHIP and AMLASH, AMHIP
would see AMLASH off to Zurich from Kastrup Airport on 12 August, then
take a late afternoon fiffght dom to Paris. As it turned out, however,
AMLASH was able to book a passage on a Rumanian Airlines (Tarom) flight
to Prague, via East Berlin's Schoenfeldt Airport. AMMHIP later took
the early evening flight to Paris; we took the 1150 AF flight the sane
night.

In Paris, AMWHIP took a roam (#60) as planned at the Hotel
where he remained throughout his. stay in Paris. He also booked a room
for AMLASH. We arrived in Paris at OMS, 16 August, booking a room

@UL) at the Hotel Roblin, 6 Rue Chaveau-Lagarde (ANJ-5700).

poke rstenier



:
i
t
;
i
‘
i
i
j
i
H
f
i
i
'
i
i
i

ornare eee 2 rch beial IE a

PRSStai seca

re

15. Events of 13 August 1962.

On the morning of 13 August, we checked into HBFINCH to discuss
the Paris meetings with Peter J. kyningtoe.. “thru his good office we were
able to arrange for precautionary surveillance of AMMHIP and AMLASH,
obtain use of a Station safchouse, and effect other arrangements as
necessary, The cooperation and help of the Paris Station was excellent.
Following this meeting, we went to a small bistro near our hotel, phoned
AMAHIP, and arranged for a meeting in our hotel room at 1830.

This meeting took place in our hotel room (#li1) at the Hotel
Roblin, at 1830. The purpose was merely to meet AMHHIP and re-assure him

that arrangements for AMLASH's meeting were laid on. We also made

_ arrangements to give him his expenses for the trip and account for same

during a meeting the following day. This will permit him to leave for
Milan without delay at the close of our business with AMLASH. He was
getting "nervous", as he called it, and will be glad to get this business
over and done. We agreed. He wanted to remain until the conclusions of
the talks with AMLASH, however, for he felt that he could be of use in
handling AMLASH. We agreed. He did not, of course, want to be in on
any operational discussions, but just to be on hand to guide his
tempermental "charge". :

He was very anxious to meet Wallace A. Groweryg in order to
point out to him in advance some of the quirks in AMLASH's personality.
In talking to us, AMWHIP said that a person with the background of
AMLASH, mast be handled in a certain manner, and if done, he will respond.
AMWHIP told us that while he is of course subjective about AMLASH, he also
realised that he is of a different background and make-up (flattery?)
than either we or himself, and that in order to get him to produce and
cooperate, the problem mst be approached in a certain way. He said



that AMLASH is very proud and andependeni, He does nol wane tu feel he has:

to take help from anyone. AMMHIP said that this is a rather naive way to | :

look at it, but AMLASH does, and for this reason, one must be careful
not to appear to be buying him, We said that we understood this, ani were

willing to advance our arguments in any manner necessary to get AMLASH's iy

cooperation, but that eventually AMLASH mst be made to realize that,
though he is of no little importance to us, he is after all, the only one

man with one man's resources.

AMWHIP continually stressed the point that to work with people

like AMLASH, it was necessary to have them first accept a person either

¥

by personal contact over a period of time or on the recommendation of a

good friend, He felt that while it was necessary for us to spend some time
becoming acquainted with AMLASH, it also might be necessary for Growery :

to go slow at first. This, we said to AMWHIP was all right, up to a point,

but that we felt quite enough time had been spent with AMLASH already,
and that the meetings in Paris were going to get down to business quickly,

and proceed as necessary to conclude business as rapidly as possible. i
We felt that AMMHIP understood our point. ee

During this talk, AMMHIP again expressed the feeling that if

Cuba is not returned to freedom within two years, he was going to set anata
up business permanently in Paris or Southern California, and forget the i
idea of returning. He was obvious moved by the finality of such a decision,
as he is a real Cuban patriot. or so we believe.

We agreed to contact AMWHIP by telephone at his hotel at 1200
on 1 August (Tuesday). Subsequently a meeting at 1700 in our hotel room.

-22-

i

i

H

i

i

i

i

i i {
|

i

gira steer emnnen sano nnn nnn ana EAE



16, Events of 1h August 1962.

As agreed, we calléd AMWHIP at his hotel at 1200 on 1h Avgust
and arranged a meeting for 1700 in our hotel room. At the 1700 meeting
AMSHIP informed us that AMLASH hac arrived as pranised from Prague about
“noontime, and was already inquiring about a meeting time with "the man
from Washington". AMWHIP was told that "the man fram Washington", (whom
they in the future called "Jaime" as they could not readily pronounce
Grwery's true first name) was not able to arrive before that afternoon,
and that a meeting with him could not take place before the 16th. Also,
AMWHIP was reminded that he himself had stated that it would be best for
hin (AMWHIP) to talk to Jaime first in order to explain AMLASH's personality.
AMWHIP was unhappy that this meeting could not take place immediately,
but said he would explain the matter to AMLASH. This meeting, it is noted,
took place initially at a small cafe across the street from our hotel,
so that we could finger AMWHIP to two surveillants of the Paris Station.

The two principles then retired to our hotel room for the remainder of the
meeting. We said to AMWHIP that we would check in with him by ‘phone the
following day and inform him whether there was any chance of Jaime
arriving on that day, the 15th.

At this meeting, AMMHIP was also paid $350.00 to cover hotel
bills for him and AMLASH in Helsinki, Copenhagen and Stockholm.

15. Bvents of 1h August 1962.

We phoned AMWHIP at his hotel at 1300 to inform him that there
was no change in plans and that the best we could do was to call him
again that evening. AMWHIP said that he would be out all evening;
arrangements were then made that AMWIIP should call. us at our hotel at



A
g
S

2200. Subsequently, AMMHIP did call as agreed, and was informed that he could

Plan to come to our room tomorrow, the 16th, at 0900. The hour bothered
him (too early) but he said he could make it.

hoin

Later the sane evening, Kymington, Growery and ty
discuss plans for the meetings tomorrow. At this necting Kymingiei ~

met to

disclosed that his team had detected what was believed to be surveilance
of AMAHIP and AMLASH. To be positive he planned to have the meeting the
next day surveilled.  Growery agreed to come at 0900 for preliminary talks
with AMHHIP,
16. Events of 16 August 1962.

Growery arrived within five minutes of appointed time at
our hotel room. AMWHIP arrived later at 1015, apoligizing for his tardiness
(a late evening!). Breakfast, was provided and, after introductory amenities,
the two began their talk, in Spanish. The talks terminated at 1230.
The second meeting of the day was Postponed until 1600, as AMLASH vas not
feeling too well.

Later at the Station, rymingtdt-veveslea that he now believed
the morning meeting had been surveilled and that efforts were being made
to determine who was responsible. It was readily established that it was

genic ill ce
no Cuban or Soviet exercise, but rather gone by one of the French services

or local police. Since it was pointless to stop the. meetings now and

the address of the safehouse had not been mentioned verbally, it was
decided to contime as planned. Paris will forward account of surveillance
and outcome as soon as possible. (when we left Paris, it was determined
that this "surveillance" of our meeting might have been a truly freak
Coincidence, and the subject of the surveillance was another target, not

ue. We don't think so. However the pending Paris report should resolve this.)

euane

ae) a



2

Growery and we arrived at the safehouse (19 bis rue Spontini,
XVI) ahead of AMLASH and AMWHTP. A tape recorder was installed. At 1615,
JMLASH and AMAHIP arrived. Shortly after introductions, Growery and
AMLASH were talking business in Spanish. After about 30 minutes, we took
AMHIP cut of the flat on the pretense of buying food, in order that the
Ho principtey could talk freely. Procuring food and beer, we returned
after a two hour absence, and made a cold supper for the four, The meeting
terminated about 1930, AMLASH and AMMHIP leaving some 15 minutes before
us. Arrangements had been made for a meeting at 1000 the following day
for further talks, and beginning §@ S/W training.

17. Events of 17 August 1962.

At 1000 Growery met with AMLASH for several hours. Arrangements
were made for AMLASH to return to the safehouse fo. S/d training that
afternicon at 1,00. (See S/W training report for account of meeting.)
Before breaking up, arrangements were made for a continuation of the S/d
training the following day.

18. Events of 18 August 1962.

(See S/W report for account of training this meeting conducted
at the aforementioned safehouse. Account of debriefing of AMLASH during
this meeting and others to be filed by Growery. All debriefing of AMLASH
by Growery was conducted in the Spanish language.)

19. Events of 19 August 1962.
Meeting was held at 1900 at safehouse. Account of meeting to

be ineluded in Growery's reporting.

ISLapa cnet fe nnn a ne et te nr nC BN : =
eats aR

eo



S 20, Eventa of 20 August
Kymington and Growery picked us up at Mad@laine church at 0600,

and proceeded to rendezvous with AMLASH. Counter-surveillance detected

no apparent observation of the pickup of us. The four then proceeded by

;
t
|
car to the Army Air Corps Support Elenent at St. Andres, for te demonstration br

e and instruction in plastic explosives. The classroom work and the field
demonstration Tasted until 1430, at which time the four proceeded back

to Paris. AMLASH was let out of the car in the suburbs and told to

oxo

hoes
take a taxi back to his hotel. Kymington- took some snapshota of AMLASH

receiving this instruction. These are not too satisfactory, but neverthe-
less, will be enlarged and forwarded for the files. i
‘The participants met later that evening at 2100 for a drink and
critique and comments of the days activities. AMLASH seemed quite
satisfied with the denonstrations, but was interested in having smaller aah
explosive packages with more force, and a remote control method for ea ‘
detonating them. The meeting was short and broke up at 2200. It was aoe ;
agreed to meet once more on 22 August for a final briefing sesson at 7
Grovery's hotel room (in the Grillon) at 1200.
21. Events of 22 August 1962.
AMLASH came alone and on time to this meeting. A tape recorder

was in operation. About one hour was spent on a review of SW, followed
by requirements, and tasks to be performed or looked into upon AMLASH's :

return. (See Growery's report for tasks and S/W report for this section

of meeting.) Arrangements for emergency contact in Paris were set up

using the phone of a contract KUBARKER of Paris Station. AMAHIP and

we made arrangements for a meeting at Queenie's for 1000, 23 August.

TOn

i
i

mon hence ents mas Src sac [



2)
)

22. Events of 23 August 1962.
—_—S eee
At the morning meeting, AMWHIP sa‘d that AMLASH wanted to see

us on a matter conceming S/¥. The meeting was arranged for 1300 at the

rue Spontini safehc.se. This meeting took only a few minutes as te
problem was minor. AMLASH and AM#HIP departed the safehouse at 1325.

We left a little after. This was the last time we were to see either

AMLASH or AMNHIP in Europe.
23. Events of 25 August 1962.
OE August 1962.

for New York,
AMLASH's attitude in Paris was essentially that which it had
been during the previous contacts in Scandinavia, that is, changeable as

the weather, varying from occasional flashes of wit and mirth to degrees

interested in procedires and conversations during the meetings and during

should he become tired, bored, or disinterested. His social graces are

not the sharpest honed. He can, however, be reasoned with, even in same
of his contrary moods. ANWHIP was particularly effective in reaching him
during these. We are in complete agreement with AMMHIP when he describes

has complexes a such, but it is felt that he is generally preoccupied
with his thought, presumably about problens Cuban, and is often seeningly
incapable of maintaining his interest in things about him for any length

eh erm Rae RT 2 AER ence NE AON Meare en nese

_ Biscen te enew a sieht Soe N ek nt NMR ce tt an

AMLASH departed for Prague. We left Paris at 1045 aboard PAA 119

~ 26. Miscellaneous Comments on Case, Personalities, and Actions in Paris.
— Ee Kase, Personalities, and Actions in Paris.

of discouragement and perhaps despondency. He was generally receptive and

periods of instruction. He makes little attempt to disguise his feelings,

AMLASH as being full of complexes. But further than that, AMLASH not only |

seth

—>



Baines ukaste naomi one terrence te net

cera mantinenicecoNemeeRaarite caretaker Se atm rena tn rh nna ie name eee

—

of time. If one is discussing Cuba, however, he obviously is very

interested. Therefore, it might well be that he is actually so pre-
pacdanrriahest :

occupied with thoughts about problems at home, that all else is secondary

‘and treated accordingly. khen, on occasion, he "opened up? a bit with us,

it was obvious that he had done, and was doing, a great deal of thinking : a

about Cuban problem. It may be that Growery will have mich more to say
aaa point, as their discussions were in AMLASH's native tongue. On }
mary occasions, AMLASH is rather exasperating tc deal with, but we feel : i
that this 1s a trait of his which is a normal facie of his personality, :
and not assumed to try the metal of his case officers. We may be wrong, eee

but doubt it.
27. Physical Appearance: : : i
AMLASH is about 5111", weighs about 175 1bs., dark wavy hair, “4 :

thinning noticably on top and usually needs combing; brow eyes, small, : '
almost paftulant mouth, small nose, pale complexion, eyes are a little ‘
small for his face and very intense in expression. He prefers dressing i
4nformally, and is prone to wearing jackets with no tie. (He could i
mingle with the typical small town corner-loungers without difficulty.) :
When dressed up, he presents a good appearance in a masctline way,.and i.

apparently from AMNHIP's stories, does quite well with the wonen. Concerning
the question of his being a homosexual, we cannot say whether he has a

hidden bent in this direction, tut if he does, he is not at any rate, a
purist but rather AG-DC. :

28. Language. : is

Native Spanish, fair to good English, tut with limited vocabulary.

He can be successfully conversed with using Mnglish, but it has to be
done slowly and with basic constructed sentences. It is not possible to

be articulate with him, if he is expected to rasp the full meaning of the
conversation. ue



jeter a ena STAT mo NeW sn ROEM AEE PHFD PERE SRM EE es Me RE

29. Family. : i

AMLASH is separated fron his wife, and stated that since he is
going to undertake to work egainst the regime, he could not go back to her
4f he wanted (which we don't think he does) as she has been too outspoken
in her dislike of the Castro regime and of her desire to get out of Cuba.
AMLASH's mother lives with him as she is divorced from his father,

AMLASH's father is in the tailoring business and has recently married
a girl many years his junior. AMLASH does not approve.
30. Girl Friends.

AMLASH is on good terms with a Pan American stewardess of French
descent who is based in Miami. AMWHIP said to us that he thought she was
with us, but we replied we really did not know. AMLASH also is friendly
with the Guban dancer Sonia Sauna! thon he telephoned from Paris to give
the return date to Havana.

31. Pastimes.

AMLASH likes nightclubbing and dancing. He is also interested
to a Limited degree in architecture and historical buildings and sculpture.

It is interesting to note that. AMWHIP was reluctant to answer
many questions about AMLASH's private affairs. He felt that this was not
in good taste (somewhat) and most of the information in this report was
obtained by elicitation rather than direct questions.

32. AMLASH's Original Schedule in Paris.

AMLASH was interested in coming to Paris, executing his business
with us in the first three days, then checking into the Cuba House or a
small hotel on the left bank, and socializing with the Cubans at their '

Embassy in Paris. He also wanted to spend some time on the Riviera

cement na PN pee

i
i
i
1

week



*

a rainy day,
se

(several days), as he. felt, or so he told AMGHTP, it may be sone time
before he would see this area again. As it turned out, scheduling for
the Growery meetings, S/W training, and plastics demonstraticns precluded
his taking the Riviera trip, and als’. postponed his seeing his Cuban
friends. He finally went to the Mbassy on Tuesday, 21 August to make
what contacts he felt were necessary. As it turned out, Gramatges and

most of the men were away on vacations, etc., so that his late showing at

the Exbassy was not a problem at all. No plans had been laid on for his

entertainnent by the Embassy, and no one, it turned out, was expecting
him at any definite time after his leaving Prague. He felt mech better,
AMMHIP reported, after he had made the Embassy appearance and learned
the above facts.
33. Money Banked by AMLASH.
At our last meeting with AMWHIP on 23 August, he said that {
AMLASH had given him $500.00 to be banked in Paris or elsewhere against {

It is also interesting to note that while AMWHIP said that
any offer of money to AMLASH would be an affront to him, AMLASH readily
allowed AMHHIP to pick up the tabs for the hotel rooms and all expenses

incurred during the trip, including a number of new pieces for his wardrobe,

and the plane tickets to Prague fron Paris. AMWHIP said that when they
dined together on 22 August, AMLASH insisted on picking up the tab, stating
that he felt he should get this one, then expressed surprise at the
expense of living in Paris. Neither did AMLASH seem to worry when it was
we who picked up several tabs in Scandinavia. Funny sense of obligations
and finances!

act RRB nS,

cetin olen s

