# 104-10100-10353

## Page 1

104-10100-10353

T5e>

÷ 801 69

LOOK MARBAGE AS HELO

LA

19

DOUT LI

K-01

I LOU

• MOM ADDI

BERIU LADE AMA

ANGI

WUT EACH KHAR CARA

" MABA RIOD HAGU VIN

And Trut 1100 BID AT

THE CIRO TEHE

CAIR MOGA PICY CIVA MO

13-4144

80859

ALRI

12-22

JIDD

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reprodues

WAR LAST - APRICA BRIKI

(JOPORN IN SLANTE, REMAINING INPO BELEASARLE TO MIAISON. )

1. ALCURIA-MORODCO: THE CIABE-FIRE VHICH HAS TO HAVE ARRA

LOZENAR 1 NOY BECANS ENTICTITE A SOT WITH ARRIVAS ON A KALIAN

OBERVIR AT THE FRONT, A SECOID MALIAI OUTICIS AND TO STRIOPIAN

ORATAYIRA APPARITY AX BTILL TO CORE.

(MATIOPLAN RAPEROR MALLA LIZARBIE LAS ARATE CONTACTED KIMI

JABBAS AD PREBILIT BRI BELLA TO UNR THIN TO CRAKIVE THE CRABI-

FIXB. II INTORRE TURY TIR ATRICAN FOREIGN MINTETRRS' CONTERBNCS

PROBABLY VOULD HE CONVENIE IN ADDIS ARABA IN TO VERNE, THE DELAY

BE1N0 DUE TO BLONIES OF CONNUNICATIONE AND ACCEPTANCIS. II THS

POISION MINISTERS ARE TO ESTABLISH A COMISBION TO FIT SPONSIBILIT

FOR THE ROBTILITIDO AND TO SUBMIY PAUPOSALS SOR A BATTLEMENT.

3. JORDAN FOLIONING CABINET CHANGES 91 OCT KING REBAYN

STILL HOPKE TO PERSUADE OPPOSITION ELEMENTS TO PARTICIMATE IN TIP

SECRET

'it!

4/gp

/

---

## Page 2

ORie

DATE

C INMAR

HANG IMIT.

LOUTiNG

5

is o

LORENSED

COND:

INFO:

TC

CITE GIR

8, F59

-MOR TO

THUS ELIOPES TO INCERARE TIN ASGIUR'S POPTLARITY AND REDUCT, TRE

DINTUNTIVI INLIRACE OF OFFOBITION LEADRAS, I APPANENTLY ALSO

BELLAVES AMTOLATUNIT DE BUCH "NATIONALIET" ILENSITE TO THE CABINET.

TORLO INTROTS MORTECTS TOR A JOSAMA-SATYLINI RASPROCERRETT.

MERATI IN ACTIONS TO ACHILVI AT UEDERSTAEDINO VITH CALRO BECAUSE

• WEB COINTI OVER THAT I HIDA I AB A MORE MOLA EAT TO

SORRAM TRON TEZ BLATALAT REGIMES IN DAMARETE ALE BASANO.

JUBA DES PEROTIATIONS WITH TUS OSPORITION RECRATLY RAVI FOCUSID

ON OTATIAT HAULSI A PRO-HASIN FOMER PRIM MUTT AD LEADIE

OF THE OUTLANTA NATIONAL BOCIALIST PAETY, SO YAR THREE HECOTIATIONE

RAVI SEXY LNUOCKAETUL PROBABLY ENCAUSE NASULAR AND XIS PARTY

COZZRAGURS VANT MOXE RAPERSEYZATION THAN ITHAT IS PRESPARZEO TO

GIANT DEN.

O J/ ICTTHR KING APPOINTED MABULBI TE THE BIRATE. CABINET CHANGES AT

NOUNCIED THE SAME DAY LO DOT EBSBUTIALLY CRAIGA THE CHARACTER DE

THIS SORDANIAN GOVERMINT AND PADRANI! MILL SE ASCEIVED VITE INUT

BY THE JORMALIAN POBLIC. THE REBIGRATION OF THIN MIE OF H

---

## Page 3

-PACE THERE-

SONE RKBHUYFLING OF RESFORSIBILITIES, MAY CONETITUTS AN IMPROVEMENT

IN TERNS OF COMPETINCE AND INTEGRITY. THE FORBIGN MINISTRY, WHICH

FINE MIMETER SHARIY HUBAYN FORRLY HEADED, PROVELY WILL NON

HAVE PIREN LEADINIP UNDER ANTON ATALLAR, A PROMINENT AND RESPECTED

LAWYER AND BANKER PRON JENALIN. INO OF THE OTHER APPOINTIENTS

WILL REPLACE MINISTERS VHO HAVE BUSN BUSPECTED OF CORRUPTION. (CONF)

3. SYRIA. TIE BAATHINT REGIMES SOCIALIST MATUS AND TIB

PUNGRS OF NORHAATHIST MILITABT AND CIVIL SIVANTE ARE RAPIDLY

ANTACONIBIUG IMPONTAY FIRM OP BYRIAN SOCIET.

BYRIAS INPLURITIAL UPPIN AND TDULE CLASHE HAVE WEN ALLIANTED

DECLARRD IUTSITION TO TLININTE PRIVATE IDICAL PRACTICE TO

"COLLECTIVITE" PARMING AND TO DIVELOP VORTER ADI LETRATION OF

INDOUTRY. TREY RAD ALREADY BEEN OFFENDID BY BARLIER RISTRECTIONS

ON PRIVATE ENTIRFRISE ART PY A RECENT REDUCTION IN COVERMIENT

SALARIES

ALTHOUG THE RICINE I8 MAKIN: A STRONG BID FOR SUPPORT OF SYRIAS

PEASANTS AND MOREARS THESE ELEMENTS HAVE TRADITIONALLT PLAYED ONLY

8 EC

N

R T

---

## Page 4

GLASSIFED MESSAGE

''""

E2 NO INDEX

MACHT IN COPILMO

2

ROUTING

4

5

8

FROM. DIRECIOR

DEFERRED

ROUTiNE

INtO :

INIT

CITE DiR

80859

TO

A WIND TOLS IN INTAN PATIC.

A BERBTITIAL MATER ES VELL-ENTCATES AND TECHITCALLT TRAINED

STRIANS A MIRINS MATE TO LIAVE THI COUNTRY, THITE DEPANTURE

COULD CRIMES IN MAYHINT INPUT TO MININ WEN AND ECONOMIC

TABUS IS NO INDICATION TAN DICHUMO MINE CO THE UPPES.

O8 MYDK CLAS ANE TOMNNG AN ENTECTIV СИВАНННВ ОРГОДУТУСТ НЕ

HAS ALIMATED ANOTHE TICONTRIP CHOUP WHICH COULD LOUT A ATRIOUS

POTENTIAL THARAT TO CONTINUAD BAATRIOT RULE, (COMP)

---

