# 104-10170-10133

## Page 1

88101-02401-TOL

1:4 AUG 1967.

MEROHANDUSI

SUNJECT

3 Garrison Lavesugation of

Duraid no (or T.) MORTON

1. On 6 August 1967 me sono Irfoss of tait the Vincouver

(On. da) See tas mining or cous could mus op incorview with one

Dons/U2 (is T.) I:ORTC, 33 yosso old, who had made tio

folloming clonic.

2. Thát ba vao & ClA man phd lint lo 1933 ho

deliverod 5159, 300 to Decid DEadl

or tronster

to Cuba. (Comment: David be senato, noseced.

nes a lot like in bier Celero Eluttles bordey

Bus cheue dos pore cou debians to earer

ono of a scall grous of conustentors so uraster.

minded Use oceaselhatlon of Presideas acnacay.

lu printe aporough checko bavo choun tiat there.

pea no association between FiSPAl cad tus Mecacy.)

Go That ta 1262 Clay CuAD cave NONTOWeR

attacue caso coateintas 559,30) watca disasioN de-

lycaru lo one limoy bro la Moaseszero decaico.

(Coroat: Those lo no cvidence that Lee Maever

Corald sis la laerico la 1962.

Piero is no evicence.

IN UGH TO DION DELORE 01 910

only perses ladiered by Carrison to dato on the chargo

cl conspiring to dil crocluest licasedio)

---

## Page 2

Thet HORTON receirodssss monsa aay

frona Cl: end tire ho alco reccired borrica of 65, 000

far ise achus deceriaed in sis-garagranh de ebove, dad

83, 50) lor that dcucrived in eus raragragl be

de IctI:OLTON roported ta eu unidentlüed oll

compilay oficial la Gilgary, alseado Cinadio

•Co Tuit NORTON lost hs CIn jah da licreinder

1755 and was savisea lo soule cara lu Ciliary.

2.. Elaria ere uuder vay lo pidilas copy of lso ellica cl las

Vasciste ana entaladuo the artele hora secesiado Morever,

To try lo gei a

3o All gertinent agency cocoros baro been cleckea. Tacre 13

Thore ts

ialoration.

Pe C/luC/C is also recuordes lo caile availablo fuiaraa-

¡los iron li:leon rogerdiar contölls sororal charilor ndo regulado

ciason sua Cli sall cio lol aro interioria, is ale laverticlica da cicl

referenee ba anco do Gurrisca er lis isrosti :elicio

Itis sozgeatua cret

l'io saig ressoa clica isa nar inorest to dit toator his mede faiso

alleguioas list Chi capiojed Har

5. Il 1s reguasied ibai a ciucá de sar ja lhe filos of V11/CCQ 49

see tacter srsject arreara licrciu.

Draovant18aet

D0/CI/144

---

