# 104-10179-10073

## Page 1

104-10179-10073

RETURN TO CIA I'

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

*82

it ise do

10

• DIREÇTO

157

• ACTION, WH9

•INFO , °DE/P, COP, ADOP/A, HE 4, S/C%

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

S-E-C-R-F-T

ATPA

357 P

SEr 32 2559: E0

ROUT I NE

# 16105.20-2

1o

PIR

INFO

18x1

M-VARC

20-2

RE (MAOR) 5268 (IN 14333) *5

1. ANCHIRP I AND MAYORIA CALLED ON CONSULATE 2I SEPTEIDER TO

EXFEDITE FORMER'S VISA TO U.S. AFTER ME:CH HE REPORTED TO RONOY RESULTS

Or TRIP.

2. IN PARIS CALLEC ON GUILLERMO ALDICO PUIDA, FOISER CUBAN VICE PRES

LHO CONSIOERING GOING TO F RIME TO TAKE LF AMHIRO RIO MAYORGA CAUSE.

ANYORLA WILL ACCONPANY IF PUJOL GOES.

3º IN LONDON SPOKE WITH FORCIGN OFFICE AND TREASURY TO OUTAIN

CECARANCE FOR PLANS, I STATED THEY IN AGRECENT DU: AWIDED HIM THEY HAD

FLEDGED THEIR SUPPORT POPRIME AND MOULD NOT SUPPORT ANY PLAN CUBA WHICH

DID NOT HAVE CONSENT COYONE: MAVORIA ALSO CALLED ON STANDARO OIL, SHELL,

CHASE MATICAL BADE ANO BRITISH BUESS, ALL OF IMICH HAVE INTERESTS IN

¿UDA, TO AOTISE THEM OF GENERAL PLAN FOR COUNTER-REVOLT ION SO THAT THEY

NOULD NOT BE UNAWARE PERSONALITIES INVOLVED IN FOGSIBLE FUTURE ACTIVITY.

M:: RE FINANCINS, MAYORGA STATED HE HAS ENOUGH TUADS FOR INITIAL

EFFORT AND AFTER ALL GROUPS CCORDINATED FEELS THESE CONTACTS CAN DE CHUNTED

ON FOR ADDITIONAL FIMANCIAL SUPPORT IS NECDED.

S. MACHIRO I STATEO HE HAS NO MORO FROM: PAIR, INVAS, FORMER

S-C-C-R-E-T

REPRODUCTION MY OINER TRAN INE ISSUINO DIFICE IS PROMISIID.

Gir to.

---

## Page 2

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

S-L-E-R-E-T

ROUTING

10

FROM !

ACTION:

INFO

PAGE 2

IN 16705 NADR 5267

TREASURER FOR CASTRO IN THE SIERRA MADRE NON REFUGLE 111 PALA DEACH, MANOLO

FINY, FORMER EX-MINISTER OF PUBLIC WORKS NOW LEADILKI LIDERSROUHD RESISTANCE

GIOUP IN HAVANA, AND JUSTO CARRILLO, ALL OF WIDN HAVE CONTACTED ACHIRP I

TO SOLICIT HIS HELP IN UNIFYING AND LEADING THEIR GROUFS.

6. MAYORGA STATES HE HOULD LIKE NIE OF COLTAGI IN LASH TO GUIDE MIM

TO AVOID SPINHING WHEELS, STATION AVOIDED COPITI INT.

EID Of lESSAGE

L/S CONMEAT: "DISSENIMATION APPLICABLE TO LYVOUR SHET CAULES.

#ISTATED JOSE MAYORGA WITHOUT STATION ENCOUTAGEMENT KEEPING STATION

INFORMED OF MIS PLANS.

3-C-6-7-8-8

ROROCLCTION BY OTHER THAN TRE iSSUING CITCE IS PROMIETIO.

Copy Na

---

