# 104-10170-10168

## Page 1

104-10170-10168

SECF.ET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

PRiNE TO FILINO

1O: ACTION BLANCH"

2

Dester suri roy short unleis le seronte

ing DeAseeT facia

Ii so au dad tile ahora are sur proper.

inser propos file no, beler and tirward

cultasesito RID/AN.

FROM:

03

RID/A3

EXT: TE:)

E/G/ 4-C-11

cic (3x)

EN-475

GA 50:

TUSS QTT

DATE

ALL ADORESSEES

FTLE IN BECTION I ON BAJE IN AMPA

OPRIATE

COMMENTE

cul

MICROFILMED

MAY"

19:0C

DOC MICRO. SER.

U SK

AD--.A

CI/RA

P. Herman

RID/AN: 19187870

11.

T2.

13.

T3.

=01?

6to8:

This adoned

alg x-refid. Io M HORDER.

5)/C

rik this steeniebe

RETURN TO CIA

• ‹Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

desea having sufferel

Unicano

aja 611686

17.

FILE

RID/FI

TRACE

REQUEST

DATE MICHÓFILULS

191:4828

ACER

4-300-017

200 780-700-300 19/7

COGUNENT DATA

DUCUMESS DIVER

22

LIBR

---

## Page 2

DISPATCH

CLASSE M STARTI

PROLESSING ACTION

_SECHET

Chicc, Buroson Division

inter er station

15-13

WRACT

Sales of Prigi

115-8

CALI MIORD:/Operational

ACTION ASQUIRED - REFERIMIS

_XXX.

MARRIO NOR MADE KING

NO MORAISEC MIQUINTO

ONIY QUALINO NIE

CAN KIOGI MAYING

ACTION REMIRED: FIl and passage to LNERGO If desired.

REFERENCE

• LEGBA- 88312, 2 July 1969

lo: Forwarded herewith for Headquarters is a document recently

celse from the Chief of the Allens Polloe of Debarment II of tha

police concerning the Richard Case NAGht affair. The

ocument wan recelved by the Allens Police jia the mulls in a lotter

addressed directly to the Allens Police i!

Joine envelope

was destroyed by. the clerk who opened it and there is therefore no

way of knowlid whether it was malled in the United States ur olsewhere

or who the sunder wig.

it has ovidently been publiuhed by NAUbLl himsolf.

2. The attschment muy be of interest to LNiRGO.

Infield A. CALVIN

Attachment

As Stnted

Distributions

X/C/EUR w-atte (1 cy) n/i

2-005, Germars "/o ate.

915-13

HXY!

0. 1:

15r0

pries

ficuses dog priso

Latt N/W

CROSS RIFERENCE TO

1260-126-102

CS C021

DESPAION SYMBOL AND NUMBER

FOR 225: 473

MASSEICATION

S *C.R.ET

160-300-17.

MAT -TIVO

DATE

31 March 1970

THOS TIL NIMAR

V600124-102-

1BR

---

## Page 3

Irhard Ce

sincell

¡e Grand Avenu

hong Ioland

fora

• A'T.

WILLIAM

NO ANTIN

ORICANS.

orsian

IN TIR

Ad States Court of

29 HeT

No. 31628

MICHARD CASE NAG

vero

LATES OF ANTICA

MMAN IN THE MICCLE

te tour ad Appe

ido 0800.

MICROA

- The

oộc.

A::C

inside story

Ine bank y

CAT TE SEN

fatel "

Will

ITE TASBENGTOY POST

to Assassination of

IL E. Germany Frees

U.S. Ex-Officer

1/551007 ater han, 10 m

son; however tempora

Life

Kennedy

inese Trader Warned Div

murrys acara

Bearne

CIANICiTION STEDY

reGE:b, Richard inso

Fanghitan Suß5e1

for on uare""

901 вол

ч..

ay optrione.

23ЛEX-8L8

haro today opoxel

sarrison.

and

10%

volumes in

50, nos tale the New to

2s0ar$10do

so which you re

Riedere d.

Bord e

9913 80 37

1O05946

30%

fort

Decer

100-300-017

+00148890

in srare i 6.

neaoll

L3ES CE5N-12273

---

## Page 4

28 January 1970

Washington, D.C.

An editor of a trade journal, whom l first set while op

an intelligonco asaignment in Latin. Anerica, hao urged ne

for some line to make public the faces desling with my

Involvement. in

•conapiracy

¡to murder the late chie!

Executive, John Fo Kennedy, in 1963 and the circumstances

surrounding my arrest and imprisonment in the United States

and Eaat Cermany.

Por reasons that are sore personal than

advisablo I can

think of little else thne I would like to do

better.

But with the copious anount of documentation and

background material on hand, that I feel ahould

be adduced

to in any valid treation of the subject,

it would roquire

writing no less than a tomo,

an undertaking for which I am

hardiy qualified.

Then, too, there io a growing akerticion

on my part concorning the kind of recoption that e topic of

this nort would

alicit fron a socioly long einco inured to

violenco, corruption and injustice.

Still, aftor ovor six

youre of relativo silenco,

I've decidod that I aust oay

something about all

this, if only to answer the lies and

distortiona concocted about me in the presa.

Thus, I have

compiled thie anall

booklot, n throwamay, which

nay be

easily discarded at the whim of the ronter. In it I've

taken the liberiy to see forth a reproduction of one of the

least canitizod references to my cane that has appenred in

the

news sedie..

an article printed last ruemer in the

OVERSEAS FAMILY, a weekly Labloid catering to U.S. service-

men in Europo.. I have utilized

this perticular articlo us a

vehicle

to coll a bit'of my side of the atory by writing an

addendum

to it.

Ro C. Nagoll

---

## Page 5

The FAMILY

Folday, June 18, 1090

'O want to

find my children

Ex-Army spook who lingered Oswald ¿laims Uncle Som hides his lomily I by Thomas C. Lucey

T mproismon comber.

But which this ex Army counterspy end

alleged ClA undercoverman wonts in thaf

Uncle beep o promise to locate his wie

hildren.

J8-year-old former officer hoint

1963.

le: the Federal Govern.

mien!.

koly: FBI and ClA agents

ra they are ond deliberolety

a fion his femily, the foll, leon

et clowns.

3000

become

born

reparoled from his

vite Mitsuko Tokatiasti

and their children, Tereso, now 9. önd Ro.

robbing

when ha

arrested for

on El Poso, lex, bonk in Sep.

Per $9: 1963.

Ho sloged the robbery and immedi.

els bendered the policed No leil

comms, beccusa

he had refused to

Kennedy oisassin Lea Horvey Oswald and

wos olroid he would be hilled himself.

he en Army coptain was convicied o

he crime and sent to laovenworth, bu

Mrs: Nogell was never fold where he wos:

Since then Nogall hau been

written

bout in national: Amerrean

mogatines

a do won commit to en

prisOn

• for the CIA

Two

Noneti

nod be canes intimated that

been intone

Orl

ict oftorney dim Ger.

red Nogell three

times

sial probe of what

he colled the plot to hill Kennedy.

•Howaver.

about.

despite

oll

the

publicity

Nodel!

no

public mention has

been made.

of his éhorges thati

petrol agents who questioned

Urs. Nogell about

er husband

while ho

was in

prison said they didn't know

wheie he was;

The ClA used the promise of reunit:

ing Nagell with. his fomily as port.of the

incentive for him to undertolia a one-man

come to Europe

in Februory

1969 on o hunch that the poth to ma gm

My storted in West Berlin

• Zurich he wo

amost kiliad he savs. In Barcelona ne

was waiched. And in West Berlin he wos

anocked in a side street

bor: by

two

ưng him ton to days

i one of whom had been fol.

he top of his heod so. herd. a moio

rocked in holl

caring that the neut arloder migh

murder. him and reossured that the Gor.

pinment would linolly keep its promise

this time, Nogell liew home lo the United

Siotes

Now he's bock inhere ha starled ir

196J - when he ripped off the FBi tho

Oswald was planning to assossiriate Pres

ident Kennedy.

o documents on the

Nogell coie,

FAMILY hoi been able lo reconshuct this

incredible story of the spy who couldn't

come in from the cold.

ICHARD CASE

Nacell turse went

the

CIA 89

an

.in-

formant

BeEl

tour da

with the CiC ard

amt

foreign

Intelligence man

not a kiblet,

nd he chaldn's all Oswel

wert made lo Na.

kell which Indientec

no had belter

work so Ni

was & (al-

about

asalnation plane lo

Mipcior d.

YUB. 5:0HY90

Washingtis. Alenver didn't

reply, but Negell didn's espect

rrested. He ex!

Dected to tH

for discharging

Federally

By that time the as.

ren would be over and

Apparently Nageii Pelt poller

ram the cild kep

Peared

him the

the

CIA

prause me

of.

Cowald

Ca!»

feared

"In

that

letter from

wanted lo

sertfe.'

where hes

Mustand

and why hadn't

she.

heard: from

him.

• Нете

Mrs.

Nate see persia

14ia

Richard Magoll: a soli-doludod crank or

817 8л.

Back -

ptly 1n-

unlearage arrigaments

CIC

captato no morted in field of.

Arawam 744

I'niint Staies and

•ne Inteligence in

rantain

• 18h &

Balletaig

dump

at 846

seri

HE GOWNYA: 449

#:11L1C91

53%

72

59.41m

is to trimed

D08€

four the first

зRutа.

 -818

19128209 Al the 1618e

prah bered

bren vito.

considerai

intelligent.

DINGENY

Arin lhint

Rise wo

definitely

ieft-winder:

wal

InE toward Man

Casten

even

He hated the Ru

Patron uses said to

Has going to do BursellinE, you

knew he meant 11"

nill h11l, Ber

He Cas shak do. dix-Ha.

arronding to

dell wore Orwald and

- pogatbig

•Polonger do and-Castro

«iNO

inallons ins

L'nitAl

organ.

•Him" was

atell

aporied the:!

38& H08Н

only

1 10

FAMILT'S BOUTS

tell a in-

alructiona

ent to satie cort ol

him to.

winded that letter

48 a maller of ricord.

the Thi And questinned her a

Pew duys tr pore about her hus.

bands activities in the

n sis days.

PRIN

twire.

and

septemer ine. 1%

The FDP know

where say

Dül

didn't tell his wife:

Thin

minths

Hears?

the

bulletin

1468

# Merlay inner.

and

esplained.

¡fully

was

crut

trare

41%

pubile

urt instrucied

men

mera sellinnd by his

year prisone vasa

1r120n. Negell

93045930811096

sould hase do came

FR: tre. ts

#lesota

auperulaion

and

FRI

inted

agents

The.

FAMILT

19.8006

- In effect this de.

Tan A16

TOM S 39062

of hia

pulled a lot of sirina

said

mel Negöll when

Kennedy

Airbort.

sontalking

89 831:

done.

CUIRE

the

2073,

ldren.

DELAC

TsAn

pe

"More

this

unidentified

mas

send-

•To chle

told

The

---

## Page 6

The FAMILY

Page 1:

CASE OF CHARACTERS:

Hleherd Nogell was quet-

Bioned by Now Orleam

D.A. Jim Genison becau

Nogall claime he ling

Kennady assossin l* Hee

vay Oswald while wording

fot the ClA. Magell also

Boys U.S. Government ont

cisle leolated him from his

two chlidran after the es.

seeinctim.

not aut

the

88 48183698 6

the

ims-

*Unima

81ale8

In diw York Nagell kept an

Came m

The ClA rificial dold Nogali to

sle had di.

Werewo Mist

BeaUTHWAIT

"Il musha he true," the anerce

Shitnuah. Eant Germany and he

munid be serested

"The main

abortive

of

his

8809

US

mas'al

who had allegmily

freind and

cut d!

he wan

there

HIP WES

informalion

ni peraninues

Intermgation

ar erdril have a valla transe

ViDa

-They

drove to Erfurt

German

eiter.

wharr. Na.

a sale house la pervalo horro

useal as a rover foe intelligence

There borse mers in

Negeld

the viclim of dogger-in-the-back CiA tactics?

less Martell Pro Sinin

Arteroin

Ino M65 15 011 fermen Ministry

Bone Slate

Secuntes

Prything

went

setarding

ClA'a plan -up to a

Mageall

me?

Broked la

be

braind for another ClA insten.

In Zurich, Piegell s

Why did to go bork to 1ho

CIA ®

is it him

Monord.

'lirauer of tre

finandal seduation

Ame man stray

Mr dad wit

"Blurine his

last

went

Burnel

annther man in

New

and

Thing the ClA agent

and to Nagell

2e. 10 9аm

Jim the train

Dartment numini

an his reses.

No

"nit

Soleld t5bt8

1068.

4870.

A loon Mastere

Germon duirder

York."

4.$018.8'0

underalanding

Gertman

H08ßoe19300

hat

do

No bab

Baay

lectiet.

HATS

4. 6183618

Prain

là-East

would to

27O 8818

train and clamp durin

dirertly ts

rom.

parimens."

were !100

MIETS 3E 1819

men

In cérilian

clolhes

They

for

Bis passpure -by

news.

OH M8 198 8

didn't

know

what

they

ast Berlin pulitecal priorn lo

mateusase

They

mirused hum of espennade ant

Bald they

him

•Nigell had bros told that it

but

piar

three

munths

there

ariod lo

half

that.

beari

Tell

hem

frankly

830

ral 10 6.

Out of MENI or to get s

and

an relaxed on Orlater

33 lie didn't brine he,

and to no spleasie until he

Berin chrispini looniio

ferd

hun as Sandarig.

ofuroke"

W'erting lo mort Nagell were,

armandira in the source

@ And»r

a lot.

Merlin:

Vogel, & well.

hansin tall Harlin lawyer nitr

sover a do

and

Ua polirt francis liary

and

oldr

spies and

worsenile Mer

Me Mire matt The i

# Brut

the

Tonetune CiA member - and

под Maji

Raymond dahleau. &

puntiatrini at the US Army

cishes. and

• Ar

Mincell

was

Us

328125

becauer

пa19.

all sweeten lanter New s

• To do to the w

continurd

Notedly else

had

coffre Magel. drank

amall

Diaria Bus 18 lastra more bitter

ordinary coffee. Appron!

maastiy tivo mirates later Do

and

winter its

bathroom

or a she He sons 8o

103-0

A. 20567

Mies They

no: 8s

weis elerpy.

to she chens

my saltas

sirtyr ds had 10.or.

any ques

EINS ATIN

hans na

then New

them.

Nasell sail the

Aa4 TaIT

Nacri; arera records

plento of thr

war driven &

Tempelta,!

Mural him

til Arge

17W4F

ashed Nacill shout his

disablI.

18v.

friling

(Coalented on tiest Page)

ELAC

STEREO CARTRIDGE STS 444-E

one of the finest cartridges ever produced.

flos sregied the liess

See your nearest Audio Club or wille le:

ALLIED GINIRAL S1O18 CMON ASI WOLSCANO MANAU. fugen Kor Seero 18. Tol 081 8%.985%}.

---

## Page 7

Newest

and

"Hul" the

trashinty

from 190.

the

Balutale

The FANTLY

The Nagell Alfair.•

m

47

12

anet life

Drop.

Negril had tolu..

marilnd the

sperch fie

totrig

his

returnal. to.

. the

Statre

1a pred.

slaying

Might to

tell

that

o8 a bar.

they

divin't ret

Berlin

Herzo

Iraklion

Kitzingen

O'gau

Rothwesten

MARN MAN MON TOP SIE 50Д

Stuligart

Wiesbaden

Your Aidio Ches has the

NEW 110-WATT SCOTT 342C

The

World's Most Advanced Receiver

seekers

for

thr

Spiraleria.

Alriliral Contr

fAct

so only

Friendship

as0 A110r

frang to thei

ancene

Siacall

350 100

Weatient

Ta:8817-0778

Mnlical Center

Saint otte

no trature

firag his

fa return

to N

597 in

1 8o an.

nast 718 im.

BEse

silain

+1 and few

aftll walted

•Withers

Đ9.17

Ine silalt

THEE

BETe

triod

Hew

Irom

19309949

city

Whe

Phants to Soon's

developed

techniques Ponied eircuil modules prop

ВаноВАІ ВеРоТАс!

Mont CO sirsintry - for wirety dratuen tree listening.

'estee gily moga you connoct

pairo epristag Scoto d'lo tpot-oo

a siam. pig'el FEl Iront end

integrated Circus If BerD. IC serumpiter, fEl lone control an

GET FULL DETANS AT TOLR AUCIO CLUB

AND CHECK UNE AMAZINE LOW DUITART PRICEI

HSCOTT

Scolt International. Maynard, Moss.

01754

7E

asin

member of 1h

insulat

1.949

furg

right

left

eloris

1hrm

Wenhington

рет!

ATE:

Ватерроа

13572373

if !

1º: 91

Kennedy as.

referral

arnt Mruso flain

Ire men sho

Friday, June 80: 1009

-HAGINAR

200. 89116998

Irate Siagill a staldrte

elfaste

"as he fenally

BT78 H1

Slalm to lord as

the Suale Eperiment Was ton

paintias

mist

apo-nd'a jere.ot she al ent bla

"ninning, atrrenel."

Coverimina frame

DA April 10rg 30 Nagild real.

"APound 80 30 on

night

nl Apirl 22 Viagril was walk.

inge

down

he hoi:

Ata 1a18.-

the

Ins 1hm.

laurant with a bar.

ant the fier

open

and

did the enem de

Gorman then he saw one flat

armelhire

was his ca thr

barte

of the head."

cart Bagell &e

he hal

CIA.

Americano

frum. the

Brillas

representative

perontly the

attle stret was in

The Brillan Sertors and a mem-

of the

Declin

poolical

perlice. °

Around

wend in the

Mission and

asked for sual in the paaspuet

Instrad.

Rave his

Cs' aguria."

sarate?

troponsibility

because

pipers

one plack 10

the

ering 80

I'm guing to

Negell

10,18

i tro when ta

insulale.

cloth.

terhin

replied

police think

sdentity.or

night 1 thought »

I take le de foniyl

luit The

American

merely

shroart

and

N8S 26018

201014

Biary

Mn.iin.ty

altry

and

mislatary lighe Duca

the

Sealers

That's where he appaterily

now.

Hul Do Gisle etrenis der as 18

ta, marned of dasnace:

15...

of has

12, 7.201 20°5

---

## Page 8

14-00000

In thie addendun to the OVERSEAS

I Have su: soughe to refute er

evory assertion

made ty sea nuthor, Thomas C. licer.

Mr. Lucey, despise

his citing a substantial runber of ineccuracies,

hns nonetheloss sericted a vast area at

what may be terned the

nich thie in sins, = sare fried

lo those inaccaracies - and onissions

is which in my opinion roflect adversely on the whole.

to view Mr, Lucey"e account in a sonorhat differine perepective.

first wont to work for the Central tetelligence Agency

carlier than Aurust 1962.

suring the wintor of 1955-5f,

wile assigned as a Case

Revier Officer with the Counter Intelligence Corpo at Los Angeles, that I was initially

recruited into the CIA's farflung notwork of informants and agents one of a

pithin the Defense Dopartment's intelligence concurity tho helred the Agency

keep an eye on its not always tame coaretitor. My recruitment wes handled by a Herbere

an agont of the ClA'e Los Angeles office, and a Joe Daisson, later identified

to me through

photographs

as en. officiel

from CIA headquirters.

then located on "E"

street in Washington,

Motivated by a dupree of naivete as: he lency"s subtle

reminders that I

owed a creater duty

tony country than to the military establiahment,

berved.

80

non-paid;: confidential inforrant off and on until it

resignation from she

Army in October 1959.

A complete description of the information I supplied to the Agency

during my military cereer would only add to what must perforce beecre a lenpthy ddendua;

may

it

suffice to say that it did not alwaye seem cernone to in:eiligence affairs.

but

when it did it consisted mainly of an assortment of data that for so-called discretionary

reacong : was

seldom

passed

to.

echelons) through regular channelo.

the

Agency. lor for that nazier, to our own highér

Mr. Lucey'o: statement,

"Being

marriod to a foreign ratisani seant an automatic

removal

from

incorrect in

intelligence

work so Nopoll decided to leave the Arny," is misleadine end

its

entirely,

The only military intelligence oressication fron which en

individual is

normally

removed

subsequent to marrying à foreig astional is the CIC

primarily a security type orgen and this rule doos, not necessarily apaly when the ngent

an

enliated man or warrant

officer.

As a commissioned officer.

I ins declared

inelipible for further duty with the CIC effective 14 Arril 1959,

a Iull year after ry

morriage.

to a foreign national.: I was not barred from assigmes to other, even more

Benitive,

MI

as Field Operatione Intelligence, then the clandestine

espionage department of military intolligence.

As for the reason. I left the Army, they

wero clearly.

cuphemisticelly

expluined

in my second letter o. resignation,

detes

31 August 1959, namely:

"I desire to tender. oy rosignation because I wish to further ry

civilian

education

It is not possible for me to purcue the curriculur of which I o

desirous

while

ori

active duty.

Also, compissionate reasons of a personal nnture exist

• for desiring to tender my resignetion at this time."

My patronage under the

CIA

employrent

in

Decomber

did not ond with my dischure fron abe army and ensuing

1959

as en

investipator for the State oi California;

in face,

henceforth I was offered remuneration for my servicee,

however norizal it sometimes nes.

What my new laake

compriced

is of no real pertinence to this sidendun or to later

developments,

except

Ferhaps

to mention that one of my contecis said he corked out of

"Domestic Intellirence,"

possibly

the forerunner of the present-it cosestic Orcrations

Division,

which

illegally keeps tabe on a wide range of American ritzen oronnizationa

and activities.

should also point out that I did

not quit ay pasicion with the State

of California

"¿o work for the CIA,"

I mis disnissed, in June

shot through the right

cheat

jurine

as implied by Mr. Lucey (ar tallowing sonth I res

1962, at my own option and in my opinion

doing my job.

an altercation with a perso, anose identity I have

never

disclosed

not through the left cheat by myself,

no wife,: en

Alcoholic

Beverage Control

"inepector

then under investigation or by a los direles police officer

"because of communistic

implications,"

as has been reported at verisis lines by various

sources):

for the next year, from

approxinately the middle of augure 19co intil my arrest in.

---

## Page 9

Texan on an Sopterher 1963.

WAD

emplojed

ty

the

Arency

in a capreily which can bo

accurately

describer

that

of

on spent, in evory sense of the word.

My assignmenta

varied ant necessitated tra:el to three Lotin Anerican nitions and anny sintos, including

the Connonwenlth of Fuerto Rico.

They

alro

necoariented my taking on cover employment

for one week in

York and for about ten noels in Los Anfeler,

though usually I pooed

89.

tourist,

investigator.

for

the : Immigration & Inturnlizalion Service

or as a

researcher: for

& private fire,.

the appropriate

CIA.

crolentialo being furnished to me by

the

To sumil up briefly,

I operated in Mexico City nt the onset of the Cuban Miasile

Crisis in en

effort aimed

the Soviet covernmont;

I conducted inquiries

relative to

"dissident"

of several

Cuban refuge froups based in the United

allered connection between a Minci rerident nomed. Eladio Del

Valle ind New Orleans CIA informant Sergio Arcacha-Smith;

I investirated an nosociate of

the now deceased right-wine extremier

David l. Ferrio of New Orloung, ao I did the

activities

of left-wingers

vite,: Priscille,

nour. Venice,

California, and others; I conducted a surveillance on a man,

said to have been an exCIA

employee, observed talkinito uRP leader Manuel Artime and former Cuban senatör/rackoteer

Rolando Masferrer: 'I inquired into on allegation that Murina Oswald intended to divorce

her husband rind return to the U.S.S.R. (although I never stated that I mot her personally,

88. was cororted by the FBI and Secret Service) and I performed courier duties and acted

of my arrest I was operating in an undercover role,

having

become. involved

in a donectic-inspired plot to assassinate Precident Kennedy and,

leastwise ostenribly, other highly-placed government officials.

Mr. Lucey goes on to stato that my last assirnment al the tire "was to penetrato the

Fair Play for Cuba Committee, where he net Oswnld."

Such atatement is also incorrece.

was never a member.

boné-fide or otherwise, of the FFCC.

And my conversationa with FPCC

functionaries

official of the Socialiot Workera Party al Loa

could hardly be construed as a penetration.

furthornore, I had been introduced

to Mr: Oswald long before the FFCC came into existence, nibeit under an ansumed name.

thercfore I couldn't kill Mr.

As to the allurion tha orwald,

I told "Bob" I was an intelligence man, not a killer,

roference is true its connotation io

I had killed before and I had participated in homicides under the auspices of

both li and the CIA lone instance being the part I played in the February 1958 abduction-

interrogation murder of an FOI agent, a U.S. soldior, USCT Emmett E. Dugan,

having defected in place to the Chinese), under the puise that an

affair" was the only alternative, that it was

effort or in the best interanto of our

a . similar-sounding argument, ultimatoly roduced to a

that was advanced to me by fobore Graham as an incentivo to dierose of Mr. Oswald

But sy refueal to do so had absolutoly no bearing on the reason for

•frosting my arreat in the manner I chose, nor did it engender in me. fear of roprinal by

Perrainine to sy arrest. and

convictiong

preas have so neatly labeled as being for

at El. Pago. bank

Texas, which the official

robbery,"

let ono of

the government's oun spurious recordo,

appolate court decision that finally yawned &

judgement of acquittal in my case,

entoring a faderally insured bank with intent to rob...." The charge was then,

and is now.

record aptly ignores ie

the fact that two juries,

incensed by the prosecution's innuendoes in and out of the

courtroon land by the ranifications of perjured

testimony and a false Bureau

of Prisons

roport sale available to the jury

ita deliberationg at the second trial - though

never forually admitted into evidence)

that I was a Conmunial,

no doubt à very

red spy,

twice convicted me of having

"intended" to take by force and violence one hundred dollars

worth of Travelers Cheques from a bank'teller.

shall not heroin

attempt to

list oven generally the injustices so which I nan

subjocted by a corrupt judiçial syatom, nor shall. I bother to enumerate the cruelties

---

## Page 10

14-00000

inflicted upon me whilo confined in suniry Terna

Mont of chea are requately

jails

nail no Lonventores fenitentiary.

detailer in

writ of labons Corpus,

my

1067 senornniua in suppore of relicion for

sworn to and subocribed beforn william R. Unrein (a former rember

of the CIA's Dirty Tricke Division, uho by hia orn adniasion is grill in "che reserves").

But 1 chall opine that if Freeiter! Kennody hal not ret his demiso when and where he did,

I would not have boen brought to trial on charpes of comiting a folony.

hilo my return to the fold of the ClA in Un 1969 may hare been the only practical

thing" for no to do, it definitely vas

not proficated on my financial siluntion, as a few

old bank account pasebooks will susstantiato (i am not quito the mercenary shat ur. Lucey

has portrayed).

on the

Nor was it because of any peculiar allegiance to thoso who had tossed me

serap heap for the anke of expediency 4l years earlier, love of country, nasochis-

tie tondencies or wont of further intrique.

And

while

that the sole roguisito

it recaing axionatic in my mind

for one's uno by the aroncy io his qualification to fii into

circumatance;

even this did

whatever may happen to do we aches back out into the cold, go to speaky burierly

not really.

not apply in my

for porsonal roasons and I think the explanation in wisely loft at that for now.

My mission inaide boat Gersay - if indood i! no a nission - mie neithér no roll-

defined nor no elementary ad Mr. Lucey has porcoived.

neede to know about American defectoro in Berlin

am

Bure

the CIA knows all it

fact,

¿ho mission was not directed againot Bast: Cormany, por se.

and the modus operandi of the urs.

In

trademarke of an authentic,

Preparations boro the

even sypical,. Agency project targeted in the min to another

nation..

That I was unable to cooprehend the Gorman languare,

unwilling guest of the U.S. Attorney Ceneral,

that I had been a recont,

alco, moroly pervod

brandod a Communist in the public recordo,

to strongthen an already plausible cover built up hy chanco rather

than by deaign.

Paradoxically.

the

chinks

in

wholly untrue,

the ormor were that the cover was not

the Mfs (unlike the fBI)

not in the lenat irroapondible to the lnwe and

poliotos of ite governaont.

activitios hositlo

to

In

the

pant I had engaged in certain covert intelligence

cover - I freely confessed.

which " as an integral part of my

Oddly enough, howevnr, my mentore from Langely had neglocted

to: toll me during the briefings that these previoue activities constituted a violation of

the criminal atatutes of the GDR,

warranting a maximun penally of death uçon conviction.

Dy inadvertence or by plan I found myself in a not altogethor uninmiliar predicament.

I had confessed to my

If

ros? miasion.

have beon spared execution,

assuming that it una gonuino,

withous doubt I would

probably even oscaped long-tore imprisonment.

selectod what I considered to be a bottor alternative.

instoad, I

for my treatment by. the MrS,

Lo

ond

• • and gained ay froedom.

fron

bogining

it

Ao

exporiencod beneath the cudgol of the U.S. Department of Justico.

was far more gentle then that

with regard to my marital status and ay children,

forenost area that Mr. Lucey

appoara to have exploited, I havo

that'. "Unclo San hides my faily"

atated that FBI

and CIA agenta, deliderately isolatod no from ay milo and chiliren; nor

have I claimed that the Agency uned the promino of rouniting no with my farily as part of

the incentive

for accepting the assignrent in the GDR.

My accusationg in this rospoct

contored around my children and

they were loveled at the Stato Dopartment no the result

of

promise made to no shortly aiter my colonde fron the CDR.

Since

returning to the

United States laot spring a reliabia source has

informod me that my nifo ras, grantod a

final decroo of divorce at sose period during ay imprisonment in the

USA

And although I

have never

been

servod with a copy of tho docroe or ochor notification of divorco (or

notico of a divorco hearing) I see no cause to dispute the advisement.

Lastly, concerning the aspersions cast on my sanity, at

this writing pornit me to

sy life been certified peychotic by any U.S. dedical

adjudicated

contally-incompetent in a court of lar, nocrithorantino the

conflicling logal and medical opinicno as to my mental condition on the dey of sy arrest

in Toras, over six years ago.

110-306-19

1661-378-1770

rEpair

---

## Page 11

SECREE

SHEN FILLED INI

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

TELLINNS

1.

PRIOR TO FILING

Fall in Seet. 2 on back Dolach back flap

and forward lo HID.

Destroy. tont cover sheet, unless a records

sonatant octaun Inton or comments requig

inu preservation.

FROM:

TO ACTION BRANCH

If hole no. and lille shown sre not proper.

Insull proper til no. brolow and lorward

document to HID AN.

PHOFER TILL NO

RID/

HARRISON, L. SCOTT

7FL-105

RID/AN

GA -50.

EXT. 5178

TURE CT -7

TO: ALL ADORESSEES

PREINSECTION I ON DACE i APPROPRIATE

COMMENTS

TO.

:80 0 RA

: NO

DATE

RECEIVED

OPTICI

86 JAn 1970

C1/LS 2-6-35

Mir Hantswin

CI/CA

In. Pratt

2816V0

25

don,

il, not there hadbeco

another commandomic a lion

from the Brican on theis

29 JAN 1970

Felo

To Tura

Wiis

i. $

C1/50

8.

9.

To.

01/51G

12

Bette sande

15:

1 6.

RID: FI

AGSINACT

TRACE

REQUEST

INDEX

DATE MICROFILNED

FILE PITLE

UMUER PRIMARYCODER

100-300-17

DOCUMENIDATE

DOCUMERTRUWDER

in.. 1

34678

---

