# 104-10074-10201

## Page 1

1104-10074-10201

47883

DISPATCH

TO

FROM

Chief,

WE

Chief,

SR

L15-10

(Chief

of Station,

London

(Chié)

ofitation, Paris

CLASSIFICATION

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NO

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L

DOCUMENT MICROFLLAL SERV/CE

COFPA-

$ 47553

HEADQUARTERS FILE NO.

12%0Y

MICROFILMED:

129-2-4

DATE

SUBJECT

John PETTRAN

< Margarete faten

ACTION REQUIRED

X.

PILLMAN

:319

RE: "43-3" - (CHECK "X"' ONE)

MARKED FOR INDEXING

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

INDEXING CAN BE JUDGED

BY QUAUFIED HQ. DESK ONLY

REFERENCE(S)

lictord 7

virgarite adler

1.

Attached is

a memorandum received 1 October from

We have no further information on Subjects.

OBEIVY, (Parts)(201 768708)

Chief, ODENVY, Parisinformed the undersigned that he had notifled

his counterpart in(London and that no action was required from KUBARK.

Incidentally, Chief, ODENVY, Paris, commented on the good quality

of support he had received from/UNBOUND) on this case.

DOX

DUDLEY P. JENIONS

Enclosure:

Memo, h/w

1 October 1959

Distribution:

22 -NE (w/encl1 copy)

2 - SR

(w/encl - 1 copy)

1. - (London' (w/encl - 1 copy)

10467

741-108708-

FORM

10-58 53

(10)

USE PREVIOUS EDITION.

REPLACES FORMS

51-28. 51-28A AND 51-21

warhur sap tattered?

CLASSIFICATION

GAIIDSNTIA

PAGE NO

J CONTINUED

---

## Page 2

14-00000

Date:

•To.

From :

Subject:

October 1, 1959

JOHN PITIMAN;

MARGARETE ADLER PITTMA?

Reforence is made to letter from our headquarters

dated september 11, 1959, to the bilice of security, Department

of State, a copy of which was designated for your headquarters.

PITIMAN, a male Negro, born September 17, 1906, at

Atlanta, Georgia,

an old-time communist farty official,

his wife, MARGARETE ADLER PITIMAN, White, born October 7, 1919.

at Frankfurt on Main, Germany,

a naturalized citizen, are

travolling with their two children and appear to be on route

to Moscow, where it is belleved he intends to serve as corres

pondent for the "Worker", East Coast Communist publication.

She, Ilkowise, has been an active Communist.

Information has been obtained from rellable sources

In Paris that the subjects arrived in Paris on September 23,

1959, and are presently staying at the Hotel Gallic.

departed Paris on the evening of September 30, 1959, for London

and Intend to return to Paris on October 4.

been received that they intend to depart for Moscow on an

unspecified date shortly after their return to Paris.

will be furnished any additional information received regarding

their plans to travel to Moscow.

---

