104-10188-10468

: or,
s SECRET aa

(Shen Filled tny

Trt _or “action
Wee PaoaKeF Bivisioe :
appmoval WH Division

Wieue station

Mexico City

err

"
mg63

Utes tow

TEniamat ion

ae owe (eg REE are
CHH/3/Moxs Phan ba fu
cms | - [| |e
msier | __Robort D, Rat > owrert wpe
I Yah

CWH/Support __ Paul BE. Arneson
ON PL az

seo | i IL Odds. /oefat |
cw 3, ¢, King Rew. llrden Ufo

CONCURRENTES. DF_DTHER COMPONENTS:
PI starr - =f Al Dec 64_|x| ch nec 64
oz atert |“ (J. bose 64

+ i
CONCUR: ial
thier, ppr/ea WY yn ccs #fen 63
APPROVAL _
FERIOO Vora ABOUT] FV
ry ro — — TS
1 Dec 62 30 Nov 63 49,900 196 47$19,500 : :
apreaving autaooity T pare
Assistant Deputy Director aa {v4 64
(Plans i
cee YB ae SECRET i


Hci Se URE Telit i

8 November 1962 ea é

LIEMPTY Project Renewal Request

1, It is requested that the LIEMPTY Project be
renéwed for the period 1 December 1962 thru 30 November
1963 for a total of $49,900; $30,400 for FY 1963 and $19,500
for FY 1964, Funds in this amount have been programmed
for this Project for the period requested above,

2. It is not anticipated that any training will be
required during the next project year.

3. Emergency recontact instructions for Raymond H.
GERENDE and Oliver G. SCANTLING are on file at Hoadquarters.

a This project is primarily a support asset and

“4s not designed to provide positive intelligence.

5. The first LIEMPTY field project outline was
approved for the period 1 December 1958 thru 30 November
1959 and provided for the development of operational
information through physical and photo surveillance,

* and support of other Mexico City operations, particularly.

thoso targotted against Soviet intelligence personnel
and installations. The LIEMPTY project has continued
since its original approval with a few changes in
personnel and objectives, The personnel in this project
man three basehouses and one photo truck designed to

do full surveillance of the LIMERICK installation in

Mexico City.

6. This project has been rated in the past as
covering some of the most valuable investigative assets
available to the Mexico City Station. A review of the
project request for renewal indicates the continued
efficiency of this project.



ci |

2

7 The Station considers that the project is now
operating at its optimum size and does not Plan to expand
during the coming yea)

8. WH Division requests renewal of this ‘project in
accordance with the project renewal request attached
hereto.

