# 104-10216-10315

## Page 1

104-10216-10315

SAAs+2007728095 97974

Éera

DISPATCH

CLASSIICATION

80

1470

Deputy Chief, WH-SA

Chief, VE

PROCISSiNG ACTION

DESENSITIZEO

1 COLE QUALITIES DESE

CAN DOGE MADCLAE

SUBJECT

Cases of station, Parta

KEYWAY PERLD! LESSAFU

ACTION RIQUIRED. RUFERENCES

FOR YCUR INFOZMATION

#ACAOFALA

• Transmittal of UNSHAPU/18 Transcripts

Forwarded under separate cover are the UNSNAFU/16 trangeripts fOr

the period 28 August - 27 Septendor. These are the caly enes received so

far.

PAULA S. SIRPIE

Attachment: as stated, U/S/C

granscripts (in duplicate).

Distribution:

? - DC, WI-SA M/atts

- Chief, WE so atts

Group 1

Excluded fron autonatio

Downgrading and

Declassification

AMLASH-l's file

CROSS REFERENCE TO

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

OFPA-77062

ECRET/KAPO

ĐCT 23 1003

DATE

21 October 196%

405 FILE MELIBER

201-725232

---

## Page 2

eypler' *.-e

Suáli cals...es a natter uf fact, nostly jaby talk, wito tie

cnildren.

Then, taele is also the caildren's aome sort...jorsia Otero selba

toen acd iniciates toer to tne mysteries mi tas decinal sistea.

uater on, jaccia Drem sentions taat ae is going to go to tae

Eabassy; a certain NOVO errived or is about in arzive, coning

from Switzerland; de also wants to see faff wao's supposed to

be in Paris.

Tney talk about MiBfIcA FISSOLo and mentich iat sue's just vack

Irom suba; toey rention taat she is sliz-tly off der rocserani

content favourably on ser nugbend eno's a lsconotive tecanioien;

Garcia Otero would like to send cin to satr on a seelaior concraci.

America 1s subposed to nave seen FAUnE CHO.ONT and DUBEld raile

in Cuba.

Tey also taix about ES?-ELLA •EL PINO; taey nostly talk about

der note, how old

sue is etc...done zussid äbout seople tuey, used

to sron in cuba; in tais case, PANglItO CU-llO uao fled tue

istenã a maile ago.

Tuey aent10s tnet tuey ase goies to aor Hay tat's uiso) sor

in, ticar ethen, suod, i-ks

---

