# 104-10192-10199

## Page 1

104-10192-10199

MDC

#OUTING

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SInGARIENI

EXT

DATE :

3977

1593

10

J*A7

inom..

DIRECTOR

CONF:

BELL 10

NO: COP, UM S, 06: 0, 5/6:

OPII HAVE

NEL. MATE COLO

for

NO RIM BOUTINE

ESEPS) 26

CUTE DIR

Dento sT

BOUTINE

?::93551

10153

S0a

SEDTO J. L. ALVAREZ PIO PASSPORT NO, 23432 ARRIVED FROM HAVANA O

ZAA ILI LIONT 5 SEPT. AS MESSAGE FOR RITCH FROM AMBLESS 1

CEAST SOS AS PER 3OC. TODAY DEBRIZE AND MAKE ARRANGENINES TO

LiSOR ALYARE. ADVISE.

2. JUST ISIIVED SW FROM AL AS FOLLOWS: "WE RECEIVED MONEY.

IT IS "01 -CUSi. 1J5 SEPT PEDRO J. L. ALVAREZ, UNCLE NATIONAI

CID 0: ANIL JEPLY AND RECEPTIONS AND COMMUNICATIONS WILL

DIAITI:UNI. IOU CA: CONTACT FIM THROUCH THE PERSON WE LAVE

ITAI. (TIDITY INS A 3.D. "HIS RETURN WHEN MISSION

CC: 37. 2: 12225. "AGO FORENO MELO IS ASSISTANT NATIONAL.

COOLICE! CO:I: AT 2235IT TIK THAT IS TO SAY HE WILL BE THE

CE 170 HILL. 1I2 I CITASE LITH YOU IN TER EVENT I DISAPPEAR.

VISA WITES POVISTO LES :OT ARRIVED."

COOLDINARING OVIE

AN E

DEDICAB

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITED,

Copy No.

---

## Page 2

Fart

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

S-E-C-R-ET

ROUTING

DATE •

1O

f#OMr

CON!,

NO •

DIRECTOR

PAGE 2

1O

• INTO

DETAILO

ROUTINE

OUT 93651

10158

3. MAKE ARRANGEMINTS WITH A TO PASS RS-E RADIO COMPLETE WITH

PADS, SICPLAN AND CRYSTALS TO A-I IN SAME MANNER MONKY HAS PASSED.

A-3 HAS ALREADY CHECKED AND INPORAED "HITCH" THIS COULD BE DONE.

4. RIMS AUTHORIZED PROVIDE RADIO EQUIPMENT AS REQUESTED.

(END OF MESSAGE)

0/C

(be phone)

93

K. DAVIS

C/WE/4

ДВІНАТСА

COOSDIMATINO OF

S-E•C-R-L"T

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy No.

2/pV

---

