104-10336-10004)

United States Department of State

Washington, D.C. 20520

April 8, 1997
David Marwell
Executive Director
Assassination Records Review Board
600 E Street, NW 2nd Floor
Washington, DC 20530

Dear Mr. Marwell:

Enclosed is the diplomatic note received from the Mexican °*
government, dated March 12, 1997, which responds to the ARRB/s
request for any additional documents that the Mexican 7
government might have relating to the assassination of
President John F. Kennedy. The Embassy evidently submitted the
request to the Mexican government on June 13, 1996, but-did not
report the action through telegraphic channels. The reference
in the telegram is to our recent query.

The Mexican government note conveys copies of the
diplomatic notes exchanged between Mexico and the United States
in 1963-1964 regarding the initial U.S. request for Mexican
documents relevant to the investigation into Lee Harvey
Oswald’s visit to Mexico in the fall of 1963. Most of these
notes were published in volume XVIII of the Warren Commission
Report. They also duplicate copies of the same correspondence
found in Legal Adviser‘’s and Mexico City post files that are
included in State’s collection at NARA. I have stamped
enclosed copies of pages bearing "confidential" classification
markings. I am also enclosing a copy of Mexico City telegram
3078 of March 31.

According to my records, we have now received responses
from all posts contacted through the A bureau. Minsk remains
ongoing. Final responses have been received from Bonn, Paris,
London, Moscow, and now Mexico City. Interim responses have
been received from from Tokyo and Ottawa. As it has been some
tine since Tokyo reported that the Japanese government would be
searching for documents, the ARRB might wish to prepare a
followup cable. :

Sincerely,

he [oy fo

Nina J. Noring
Department of State Liaison
JFK Assassination Records
Collection Act
Attachments:
As indicated.


SECRET

Assassination Records Review Board
600 E Street NW - 2nd Floor » Washington, DC 20530
© (202) 724-0088 + Fax: (202) 724-0457

save

September 5, 1997

BY COURIER

Mr. John Pereira

Director

Historical Review Group

Center for the Study of Intelligence
Central Intelligence Agency
Washington, DC 20505

Re: Request to CIA to-contact{ ___ ]regarding LIENVOY intercepts of
ald tel mi in Mexico Ci :

Some time ago the Review Board requested informally that CIA contact
in Mexico City for information related to Lee Harvey Oswald. During your
recent visit here we discussed with you the feasibility of your making such contacts. I
am writing in response to your request that we memorialize our request and provide
some background information.

The Review Board believes that all reasonable steps should be taken to account for all
telephonic intercepts of Oswald during his vigit to Mexico City in September-October
1963. There is evidence that CIA intercepted some telephone calls through an operation:
named. LIENVOY (onducted We
believe that it would be appropriate for CIA to contact Gireétly

to inquire as to whether the Mexican authorities retained copies of LIENVOY
telephonic take, specifically the actual recordings of Oswald's telephone calls to the
Soviet Embassy during the period of September 27 through October 3, 1963.

The Review Board previously has sought information from the Mexican Government
through appropriate diplomatic channels. For reasons that are obvious to those
familiar with Mexico City issues, the Review Board could not raise with Mexican
officials nor with the U.S. State Department the possible existence of additional tape
recordings that might be in the hands of certain officials. Thus, at the behest of the
Review Board, the Department of State requested that the Mexican federal government
and local government agencies conduct general searches of their files for records
related to the assassination of President Kennedy. The Mexican government responded

SECRET

Boaro Memsens: John R. Tunheim, Chair - Henry F. Graff « Kermit L. Hall « William L. Joyce « Anna K. Nelson
Execurive Director: David G. Marwell


SECRET

Mr. John Pereira
September 5, 1997
Page 2

by sending copies of the same documentation and correspondence that the GOM had.
made available to the Warren Commission in 1964.

The basis for our interest in your contacting Appropriate Me ‘Mexican offidials'is found in
CIA document 104-10004-10199, which was reviewed by the Board on September 19,
1995. On page 5 of this document (not including the cover sheet) information that the
Board agreed to protect, due to the sensitivity of sources and methods involved,
suggests that the Mexican security forces may have had their own copy of the October 1
intercept on Lee Harvey Oswald. It is unclear whether this statement refers to the
transcript or to an actual tape containing the phone call. Nevertheless, it provides
enough evidence to warrant additional inquiries on this matter.

For your reference we are enclosing copies of the reference documents as well as copies
of the correspondence between the DOS and the Mexican government.

We would appreciate your contacting appropriate o official to determine what
reasonably can be known about this and related matters, and ask that you provide a
response to this request by November 14, 1997. We are fully aware of the sensitivity of
this type of request and do not wish to take any action that would compromise existing
intelligence operations. If necessary, we would be pleased to-discuss with you ways in
which we might further elaborate on this request, including person-to-person
discussions with appropriate officials either here or in Mexico.

~a

Thank you for your continued assistance and cooperation.
Sincerely yours,

Or
T. Jeremy Gunn v4
General Counsel and Associate Director
for Research and Analysis
cc: J. Barry Harrelson, HRG

Enclosures

SECRET


13-00000

Descriptive Name:
Descriptive Type:
Subject:
Attachments:
Blind Copy:
Carbon Copy:
Reference:
Document Number:
Date Completed:
Checked By:
Typist:

Author:

CIA Request to J. Pereira
Letter (Class. SECRET)
CIA Request

CIA Doc. 104-10004-10199, DOS correspondence

Barry Harrelson

Classified CLA memos a:\cia-mc.02wpd
File: 4.20.4

9/5/97 12:00:00 AM

Jeremy Gunn

Cathy Rodriguez

Irene Marr


13-00000

J SECRET moe

- Assassination Records Review Board
Final Determination Notification

RECORD NUMBER : 104-10004-10199

RECORD SERIES : JFK
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : .201-289248

OSW10:V1OB 1993.06.14.15:36:06:060000

September 19, 1995
Status of Document: Postponed in Part

Number of releases of previously postponed Information: 16

“Reason for Board Action:. The Review Board's decision was premised on several factors including: (a) the
significant historical interest iri the document in question; (b) the-absence of evidence that the release of
the information would i to rereneneaeena or to any individual.

Number of Postponements: 6:

Postponement # 1 (Page RS):, .

Reason for Board Actions Tie unt is redacted because it reveals the identity of an intelligence agent that
properly may be withheld under Section 6(1)(A) of the JFK Act. The Board is awaiting additional
evidence from the CIA, at which time it will reconsider the postponement.

Substitute Language: Seé Dociment

Date of Next Review: 12/1995

Postponement # 2 (Page RS): : os

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted becauze it reveals the identity of an intelligence agent that

properly may be withheld tinder Section 6(1)(A) of the JFK Act. The Board is awaiting additional.”
evidence from the CIA, at which time it will reconsider the postponement.

Substitute Language: See Document 7
Date of Next Review: 12/1995
Postponement #3 (Page 1):

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted becausé it discusses sources and methods that properly may
be withheld under Section 6(1)(B) of the JFK Act.

Substitute Language: None: The redacted information contains no substantive information about the
assassination of President Kennedy or about Lee Harvey Oswald.

Date of Next Review: 2017

SECRET


13-00000

Postponement # 4 (Page 2):

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because it discusses sources and methods that properly may
be withheld under Section 6(1)(B) of the JFK Act.

Substitute Language: None: The redacted information contains no substantive information about the
assassination of President Kennedy or about Lee Harvey Oswald.

Date of Next Review: 2017

Postponement #5 (Page 5):

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because it discusses sources and methods that properly may

-be withheld under Section 6(1)(B) of the JPK Act.

Substitute Language: None: The redacted information references "the 1 October intercept on Lee Oswald”
and the possible existence of another copy of that “intercept" that was discovered after the assassination.
Erk apap Pier pict hii tara in aa
i aerate ett

Daté of Next Review: 2017» 7“: ieee : ue
Postponement #6 (Page 14):

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because it discusses sources and methods that properly may
be withheld under Section 6(1)(B) of the JFK Act.

Substitute Language: None: The redacted information contains no substantive information about the
assassination of President Kennedy or about Lee Harvey Oswald.

Date of Next Review: 2017

Board Review Completed: 08/03/95


eas arena :
USE ONLY



13-00000

pee aes

and other agencies wey have taken bared on our report. We surates that the
FRE may have made Looe, checks throu: Mexican autharitios: te see if

Lee OSWALD was gotuatiy in Mexico City on 1 Octaver. Todeed, later in~
vestigation kas ctufivmed aii thé details of bis trip, where he stayed,
end What he 484. To avoid crossing Lines vith the EI, eur Mexies Station

underteok uo Leoal invwetigation of ita cn. Au we now know, COWALD Left

When werd of the ehosting of President Nenoedy reached the offices
of cnr operatiny diviatocs and staffs on the afternoon of Pritey 22 Novea-
bax 1963, transistor radios were turned on everywhere to fallow the
tragedy. When the name of Lee COWALD was beard, the effect was electric.

A phone megoaze fro the FAL cane at about the same time, nating OSNALD



13-00000

a

see ‘VhL! 202-647-5| P..003 ©
Te eee en
. UNCLASSIFIED OUTGOING
TELEGRAM
Department of State
ue ol Apae24oin? amepll "9G, Hc4633 STATE 984217 2371682 SHCSBRS

1AFO L0G-25 ARA-80 ORSY-8G DIN-BB DINT-88 0S-29
IntiG-81 TEDE-O8 L-88 ADS-BB MGB OIS-]
(MS-82 DSCL-80 — /BB7R
adted BY: A/ INV | S/FPC/PPA : MPGRAFELD
APPROVED \: PFKERNEDY
INTIS: EWILSON. AAVMGHGELSEL: A/UNYLS/FPC:PSHEILS.

‘ARAIMEX: DURS

-=e31D610 2321182 /38
R 2321672 APR 96
FIL SECSTATE-WASRi

us De

BRAEREASSY nexica

HCLAS STATE 81207

FoR THE AMBASSADOR FRON ASSISTANT SECRETARY KENKEDY
fo, 1st: MB :

Tacs,

‘SURIJECT: Pn iz KENNEDY ASSASSINATION econos=* ice
COLLECTION ACT OF 1992

et

1. THE ASSASSIMATION RECORDS COLLECTION ACT OF 1992
THE "ACT") WAS SIGHED INTO LAW ON OCTOBER 26° 1992, -
THE ACT ESTABLISHED A PROCESS FOR IDENTIFYIRG AND:
SECURING ALL RECORDS RELATING TO THE ASSASSINATION OF
PRESIDENT KERREDY AND COLLECTING THEA 14 THE

PRESIDERT JOHK F. KEKWEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS
COLLECTION AT THE NATIONAL ARCHIVES [N COLLEGE PARK
MARYLAND. THE AGT ALSO ESTABLISHED THE ASSASSINATION
RECORDS REVIEW BOARD (ARB) TO COORDINATE AND OVERSEE
THE PROCESS. THE DEPARTHENT HAS BEEN WORKING CLOSELY
WITH THE ARRB TO EXSURE FULL COMPLIANCE WITH THESE
REQUIREMENTS AND OVER 4 YEAR AGO PRODUCED 175
COLLECTION FOR PUBLIC ACCESS AT THE RATIONAL ARCHIVES.

1, THERE REMAINS, HOWEVER: GHE PROVISION OF THE ACT:
FOR WHICH THE SECRETARY MUST RELY ON YOUN OFFICE FOR
UNPLEMENTATION, THE ACT ENVISIONED AN APPROACH TO
FORE IGH GOVERNMENTS FOR ARY RECORDS THAT THEY MIGHT
POSSESS, SPECIFIGALLYs SECTION 10. (2) OF THE ACT
STATES THAT AT S$ TRE “SENSE OF COHGRESS THAT THE
‘SECRETARY OF STATE SHOULD CONTACT. .. HY] FOREIGN
GOVERNMENT THAT MAY HOLD INFORMATIOH RELEUART 10 THE
ASSASSINATION AND SEEK DISCLOSURE OF SUCH INFORMATION.”

4._(H_UTS CONGRESSIONALLY MAKDATED SEARCH FOR
ASSASSIMATION RECORDS: THE ARRB WISHES 10 DETERMINE
AETHER THE NEXICAN GOVERNMENT OR LOCAL GOVERARENT
AGENCIES IK MEXICO MAINTAIH RECORDS THAT ARE RELATED TO
THE ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT KENNEDY. THE ARRB NOTES
THAT THE ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT KENNEDY ATTRACTED
‘THE ATTENTION OF THE WORLOs AND THAT THE RESPOXSE OF
THE MEXICAN GOVERNMENT TO THE EVENT WOULD 8. OF. ie
AATEREST. (H=ADDIT.1ON,. RECORDS: OF AEX! CAN AN

CONCERNING LEE "RARVEY OSHALD'S VISIT 70.xEXIC0 “livele
SEPTENBER/OCTOQER 1963 VOULD BE. OF -{NRENSE INTEREST.-8

4. WITHOUT BEING AWARE OF THE STRUCTURE AND
ORGAKIZATION OF POTENTIALLY RELEVANT FEXICA FIUES+ THE
ARRB CANKOT PROVIDE SPECIFIC GUIDAHCE ON THE

APPROPRIATE STRATEGY FOR ENSURING & COMPREHENSIVE
SEARCH. THE ARRB 1S WILLING TO bagel? ANY ADDITIORAL
ARFORHATION THAT MAY BE REQUIRED. ANY SEARCH FOR
RECORDS SHOULD INCLUDE THE FOLLOWING:

1A) AMY AND ALL RECORDS RELATED 10 TRE ACTIVITIES OF
THE MEXICAN AUTRORITIES DESCRIBED {¥ THE DIPLOMATIC
WOTES 70 THE UNITED STATES EMBASSY IM MEXICO CITY FROM
THE MEXICAN SECRETARIAT OF FOREICH RELATIONS #0. 594826
OATED NAY 1 1964 AND HO, S@SS23 DATED JUNE $» 1564,
THESE ACTIVITIES IRCLUDE:

=-CLOSURE OF THE BORDER BY THE DEPARTMENT OF THE
IRTERIOR OR WOVENBER 22> 1963;

=-DEPLOYHERT OF TROOPS THAT SANE DATE “To TIGHTER
‘SURVEILLANCE IN TRE BORDER AREA ESPECIALLY AT REVAOSA,
CIUDAD MLQUEL ALEMARs HUEVO LAREDOe AND MATANOROS:™ AND

=-IHVESTIGATION OF OSWALD’S TRIP TO MEXICO CITY iW
SEPTENBER/OCTOBER 1963) AND ESPECIALLY-OF HIS MEANS OF
ERTERIMG AND EXITING HEXICO ANDSHISmCONTACTS Ml TH

*GILVIA-TIRADO -DURAMS "AH-ENPLOLEEADFoTAESGUBAN CONSULATE
ae AKREM(CD CITY.

Br ANY AND ALL DENT FY AER 1GAK
REQUESTS TO NEXiCO FOR INFORMATION aBOUT THE
ASSASSINATION AWD TRE MEXICAN RESPONSES TO THOSE

REQUESTS,

4C) ANY AND ALL DOGURENTS> STUDIES: INQUIRIES OR
INVESTIGATIONS BY MEXICAN GOVERNMENT ENTITIES OF THE
ASSASSIKATION.

TALBOTT



13-00000

SECRET eat

(DRAFT)

CSI 1997-444
25 September 1997

MEMORANDUM FOR: DO/LA
Te aickham,DO/IMS

FROM: John F. Pereira
Chief, CSI/HRG

SUBJECT: i Priority Request from Chairman,
JFK Assassination Records Board

aaa (S) The purpose of this memorandum is to advise you of a
priority request from the Chairman of the JFK Assassination Records
Review Board (ARRB). The request concerns records related to Lee
Harvey Oswald that may be held by the Mexican Government.

2. (S) At his initiative, I met recently with the ARRB
Chairman, Judge John Tunheim. He said the reason for the meeting was
to ask that CIA assist the Board by making inquiries to

determine if the Mexican Government has certain records related to
Oswald's activities in Mexico in late 1963. Of particular i terest _
to the Board is whether (the Mexicans have” € copies | of tapes fro i
(eer- ‘Cap opérations, including coverage of Oswald’s telephone ‘Calis.
‘Eo the Soviet Embassy./ He said that locating such records is “the
highest priority of the Board.” (The attached letter from the
ARRB’s General Counsel explains the Board’s interest.)

3. (S) Earlier this year, the Board sought unsuccessfully
to obtain information about Oswald from the Mexican Government
via the State Department. (See attached cable.) Mexico responded

by providing copies of the same material that had been made
available to the Warren Commission in 1964. The problem for the
Board was that, in making the request to Mexico, it did not want
to reveal information about that
the Board knew of from CIA récords. Being Sensitive to the
Agency's request to protect this info tion, Tunheim would like
the Agency to contact [direc ¥} on the Board's
behalf. iz irecrecreesce 1

ci py (0185904 7

CL REASON-1-5~(b,c, &d)
DECL BY X1

DRV FRM LIA 2-82


13-00000

SECRET

SUBJECT: Priority Request from Chairman;
JFK Assassination Records Board

4.  (FOUO) During the meeting with Tunheim, I said that we
would discuss his request with the appropriate people in the
Agency. In view of the priority that Tunheim places on this
matter, I recommend that our JFK Project Leader (Barry Harrelson)
and I meet with you or other appropriate DO representatives soon
to discuss possible options for responding to the request.

John Pereira

Attachments

ch. By (0185904 j

CL REASON 1.5 (b,c,&d)
DECL BY X1

DRV FRM LIA 2-82


13-00000

SECRET

ot av: 611607)
(Ct REASON: Seton 15d
Dect om: X5
RV Frm: LIA 2-82
1 December 1997
MEMORANDUM FOR: ( eert-werem 00
- oo
FROM: J. Barry Harrelson
JFK Project Officer
OFFICE: CSIHRG
SUBJECT: JFK Board Request - Mexico City
REFERENCE: Request from ARRB Chairman, Judge Tunheim re Intercepts of Oswald's calls;

Letter fr ExDir, ARRB, to C/HRG dated Sept 5, 1997 same subject

{ provided copies of the two Oswald telephone intercepts received from the Station to the ARRB staff. The ARRB staff has

responded with a number of questions for the Station to as! The list of questions is being faxed to you; please call
if you have not received it by noon today (Monday). Judge Tunheim will be in Washington on 15 December and has ask for an update on
the status of the request.

Thank you for your assistance with this request; if you have any questions please call me on 318

Barry

ce: John Pereira @ DCI
Sent on 1 December 1997 at 10:14:23 AM

SECRET


13-00000

SECRET

Classification of Material Transmitted

annie RICAL REVIEW GROUP

Pav. ae si,

CENTER| FOR THE STUDY OF INTELLIGENCE

Phone # 703-613-1806

PLEASE DELIVER IMMEDIATELY

FEISS EI OI TR I IEE RR EE IE EEL

\

CLASSIFIED FAX

supyscr: GuUESTowS FOR CRS

SENDING FAX NO. 703-613-3040,

DELIVER TO:
a

RECEIVING FAxNO. 703-(734- %O9G,?

DATE TRANSMITTED: ap Jy PAGES TRANSMITTED: 2

“grom: Bary HARRECSOW, DEEICSE/ HKG.

(including cover sheet)

TRANSMITTED BY: Aw Hy Tee

FEE EIEIO IOI I I A ER ATI I

MESSAGE:

PRIWAITY

SECRET

Classification of Material Transmitted


13-00000

Secref
Classification of Material Transmitted

FAX COVER SHEET

samc: OY ES Tron s

mou YWyreletle, Comh-o
SENDING FAX NO: 202-638-4274

parm: Bare, Hhavrekd om
RECEIVING FAK NO: 703.613.3060

parma: 2 YOO 77

PAGES TRANSMITTED (Including cover sheet) “Ca.

‘TRANSMITTED BY: Khu 7 eee

Ud?e:TA 26. a? NUE


13-00000

SECRET

Barry,
‘These are our questions to be passed to the COS with our thanks. VA
1. Can we have the original documents?

2. Does the date and location appear on the original documents? is there any indication
as to when and where they were added?

3. Is there a Spanish version of the transcripts? Can we have it if one exists?
4. Where were the two transcripts found? What file or box? Who found them?
5. What else is in the file or box where these two transcripts were found?

6. Are there any additional files on the assassination or any post assassination
investigation still in existence?

7. Were any files on the assassination or any post assassination investigation
destroyed under a routine records destruction schedule?

8, Are there any teltap tape recordings from the era 1960-1963 still in existence?

9. Are there any individualswho were involved in the teltap, the Sylvia Duran
interrogation, and/or any post assassination investigation who could be interviewed
by the ARRB?

10. Are there any persons knowledgeable about the filing system and records
management both in 1963 and to the present who could be interviewed by the
ARRB and might have some knowledge of the disposition of any teltap
information, any Syliva Duran interrogation records, and/or any assassination or
post assassination records in the archives?

SECRET


13-00000

‘

OCT 21 ’°97 22:@1 MEXT

spoata in English to someone im the becugrou.! z ;

ay : : " {R.E. 28 Sox 65, 3 5)

eeDo you speak Russtant Yoo, Way don't you sole to hime.
‘I don't know.. /MO takes tho phono end scys im spoken Russian;
Twas in your Subassy and speico to your consul. Test a mlaute
MI takes tao phone and acks MO ia Englics wast éses he want? i
MOs /in Russion/ Please spvak Russian.
MIs What.elso do you want?
MO: Iwas just new at your Exbassy and they vook my sdévess
Mis —s-‘T:- iemow thet.
Moz ‘/apooks terrible, herdly recognizable Ruseian/ I etc act
know it then. I want to tne Cuben Embassy tc acs thom for

my address, because they have 1t..

Mas Wey dealt you some again sné lsave your cddzess with us, as
mot far fron‘ the Cubs Eabessy.

a0 Well, I'LL be there sight away.

28 September 1983
Soviet Ecbassy


13-00000

.

a

249.

VI cL Ur ccih mmx

OBYs

OBYs

LEE:
OBYs

In at S20 (2) MO / tho samo percon wao phoned c du cm ce

KOT

ago and ssoke in broken Russian/ species so CSYE

"Hello, this Lod OSHAED (phon) speeking, I wos ct your placa

last Saturday and spoke to s consul, ené they sofd thot
they'd send a telegram to Washington, ae S Wanted to find
out 2f you have anything new? But I don'ts venexbo> the sama
ef that comcul. ,
KOSTIKOV. He is dark /nair or skin?/.

Yes. My nome is OSWALD. ‘
" Just a minute I'll finé ous. They say that they wavents

received anything yet. - Gea

Have they Gone anything?

Yes, they say that a request has beon sont out, but nothing
hes: been received as yet.

dnd what...? /OSY hangs up/.

. (previously transepibed)



13-00000 , .

SECRET

cL By: 01es908__/
1 EASON: Secon 15
pect on: XS

av Fru LIA 4-82

NOTE FOR:
DA
ee S. Stricklani

FROM: John F. Pereira

OFFICE: CSIHRP

DATE: 01/23/98 05:19:59 PM
SUBJECT: Meeting with Chair, JFK Board

{S) At his request , | met with the Chairman of the JFK Board, Judge Jack Tunheim this morning for more than an hour. A principal
topic of discussion was the status of the Agency's response to Tunheim's request that we ask ito provide records and
other information related to Oswald's time iri Mexico. (The’station is following up on a preliminary response|

{FOUO)Tunheim described efforts the Board is making to obtain records directly from the KGB , with State Department assistance. Not
much success so far.

(FOUO) We also discussed the general relationship between the Board and C1A, about which he was very positive. He is aware that we
have added resources to step up the pace of our review in view of the 1 September deadline. He said that he does not see much chance
that Congress would extend the Board's charter again.

Ed: Tunheim asked that we set up a meeting with you on 18 Feb, when he'll be in town for a meeting of the Board.

ce: J. Barry Harrelson
Sent on 23 January 1998 at 05:19:59 PM

SECRET


13-00000
1

MEMORANDUM

C COLLECTIONS
September 19, 1998 2 EN FULL
200
To: Laura Denk 2600
Executive Director
ce: Bob Skwirot
CIA Team Leader

From: Michelle Combs Plate lee. Cnlo—

Associate Director for Research and Review
Subject: CIA-IR-05 Possible Foreign Source for Records on Oswald

The Review Board requested that the CIA assist in locating and acquiring records
relevant to Lee Harvey Oswald and the assagsination of President John Kennedy which
might exist in the files of a foreign government agency. Due to the foreign liaison
sensitivity of this request, information on this issue was passed between the CIA,
Review Board Chairman Judge John Tunheim, and one Review Board staff member.

On September 15, 1998, Chairman Tunheim and I flew to Houston to consult with CIA
Directorate of Operations officers on the likelihood of the existence of additional
records and the possibility that the CLA would be successful in acquiring these records.
These CIA officers demonstrated that they had consulted numerous times with the
senior officials of the foreign government but had, thus far, been unsuccessful in
obtaining additional records or in confirming, visually, the existence of additional
records. The CIA agreed to continue to work to obtain these records.

e:\combs\cia-ir05.wpd
File 4.20.1 and 4.20.4


13-00900 mUEeEOL

De Che ZR-OS

Assassination Records Review Board
600 E Street NW + 2nd Floor » Washington, DC 20530
(202) 724-0088 + Fax: (202) 724-0457

ECTIONS

PULL

December 18, 1997

Mr. John Pereira
Chief :
Historical Review Group

Center for the Study of Intelligence
Central Intelligence Agency
Washington, D.C. 02505

Re: Status of CIA Responses to Assassination Records Review Board’s Requests for
itional tion and Records -

Dear John:

Iam writing to follow-up on our telephone call earlier today and to convey my serious
concern about the status of CIA’s responses to the Review Board’s requests for
additional information and records. Although CIA has completed its responses to
several requests, and many others have been answered in part, a significant number of
requests have not been answered — including some that were made more than two
years ago. On many occasions we have been assured that responses would be
forthcoming, only to have promised dates come and go without answers. It is now
extremely important that these requests be answered promptly so that we may conduct
a proper follow-up if necessary. The issues that we can now identify as being of the
highest priority are identified in the text below by double asterisks (**)' and we request
that they be answered within the next month. We request that the remaining requests
be answered by April 1, 1998.

The remainder of this letter is divided into two parts: first, a listing of the formal
requests for information and records, and second, a listing of the informal requests for
information and records. Please let me know if your understanding of any of the
following points differs from ours so that we can resolve any potential discrepancies.

"As identified more fully below, the issues are: CIA-1 Organizational Material,
CIA-6 Cables and Dispatches, CLA-13 Backchannel Communications, CIA-IR-03
HTLINGUAL Documents, CIA-IR-04 Disposition of Angleton Files, CLA-IR-07 Claude
Barnes Capehart, CIA-IR-15 Electronic “take” from Mexico City, CLA-IR-21 DRE
Monthly Operational Reports, CLA-IR-22 “A” Files on Clay Shaw and Jim Garrison.

Boaro Memscas: John R. Tunheim, Chair « Henry F. Graff - Kermit ¢. Hall - William L. Joyce + Anna K. Nelson


13-00000

Mr. John Pereira
December 18, 1997
Page 7

Documents file: documents Nos. 496, 498, 499, 500, and 510. The Review Board.
is awaiting confirmation that these documents are at HRG for processing.

CIA-IR-05 Possible Foreign Source for Records on Oswald.

CIA was informally requested to use its contacts to pursue certain records
related to Oswald that were orally described to CLA. The Review Board
understands that the CIA has taken steps to pursue these records.

CIA-IR-06 QKENCHANT.

The Review Board seeks information regarding the purpose of QRENCHANT
and its connection with Clay Shaw, Howard Hunt, and Monroe Sullivan.

The Review Board was initially provided some information in regard to this
request that now appears to be incorrect. CIA is now seeking additional
information to correct or to clarify its previous answers. The Review Board seeks
an immediate, full, and accurate formal response to this request. Once the formal
statement is provided, this request will be complete.

““CIA-IR-07 Claude Barnes Capehart.

The ARRB staff has reviewed all records that CIA has been able to locate to date.
During the course of this review, additional questions were raised that CLA
agreed to pursue. CIA also agreed to conduct additional searches to determine
whether there may be additional retrievable records-on Mr. Capehart. The
Review Board seeks a full and accurate formal response to this request. Once the
formal statement is provided, this request will be complete.

- CIA-IR-08 Unredacted Copy of the “Family Jewels” Memoranda.

ARRB has reviewed a redacted version of the “Family Jewels.” Additional
questions have been raised. At meeting between HRG, ARRB and the DCI/IRO
on December 11, 1997, specific redacted pages were identified for ARRB staff
review. These pages should be made available as soon as possible.
