# 104-10103-10193

## Page 1

104-10103-10193

ORIG

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

т: 5993"

DATE: 1€ AUGUST 1962

15

1516

TO : PARIS INVAVE MADRID

DIRECTOR

5-67.

"ROUTING

118 AUG 4U

16 342

IS Y

CONF:

C/WE 2

SIS CEN

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

INFO:

DDP, ADDP, C/CI, C/FI, C/TFW 2, S/C 2÷

TO

OPIM PARI

INFO WAVE MADE

CITC DIA 10

30778

ULDEKBAY-KEYWAY PBRUMEN' AMLASH

RIE PART 2629 (IN 47283)

1. - STRONGLY CONCUR CRONERT THAT NO PHYSICAL ELTAIVATION MISSIONS BE GIVEN AMLASH/1.

20 APFROVE TRAINING IN PLASTIC, EXPLOSIYES IF CROWERY ASSESSNUNT INDICATES

TRAINING WOULD SKRVE TO FIRM UP AND PRESERVE HI

CRUITIONT AND WOULD STRENGERIEN MORALE

AND NOLIVATION DE WI EX CIVING ADDED HXPRASSION OF KUBARIS SUPPORT HISUASSION.

SUGGEST IT BE INPHASIZED TO W/Z THAT HIS VALUE TO "CAUSE" AT TIS MESO IS AS RUTUSE

SQUECE: AND NOT AS "TORCH MAN

ALSO EMPHASIZE THAT A/I IS NOT TO EMBARK ON SABOTAGI

MISSIONS WITHOUT DIRECT APPROVAL, KUBARK, FEEL THAT ONCE A/1 RETURNS PERUMEN AND SEES

DIRFICULCY CARRTING OUT SABOTACE MISSIONS WILL LOSE SPIRIT THIS TYPE DIRECT ACTION.

REQUEST THAT A/I NOT BE FURNISHOD PLASTICS TO CARE BACK TO PERUMEN.

IN ORDER GERSET PRUSPRALIOM A/1 BY POSSIBLE LACK OF ACTIVITY SUGGEST HS EE

INFORICO THAT HE NOT ONIX- INDEFENDENT KUTUBE REFORTING SOURCE GUT P/A WHO EXPECTED

PROVIDE OPERATIONAL LEADS FOR FUTURE RECRUTTMNT INTO OWN KUTUER NOT.

* WE SUGGEST

TILTS TO MAKE TASK MORE APPETIZING AS A/1 APPEARS NIED OUTLET HIS ENINGY, PAST

PXPERINICE DICTATES THAT STRONG CONTROL RECRUITING OTHER ASSETS NECESSARY, HE SHOULD

FIRST ADVISE KUBARK OF OPHRATIONAI ISAS TO ALICH TIME OBTAIN PROPER, CURARANCES.

WILL THEN FORWARD OUR APPROVAL FOR RECRUITIC.

STRESS DIPORIANCE OF HIS NOT PRIGSERTINC

US WITH FAIT ACCOMPLI IN RECRUITING NOT ASSOTS AS SECURITY DE OP COULD EASILY NE

RELEASING OFFICER

COORDINAINE OLFEESS

downpiotra red

STORTE

decload anator"

AUTHINTICATING

OFFILTH

REPRODUCTION BY OTHE

THAN

KSUIN RESUAN TO CIALBITED

Background Use Chly

Do Not Reproduce

---

## Page 2

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

5-62

ROUTING

DATE:

NE/5

6393

18 AUGUST 62

PARIS UNWAVE MADRID

FROM: DIRECTUR

CONF:

INFO :

TO

PAGE TWO

DEFERRED•

ROUTINE

INFO

CITE DIR

JEOPARDIZED.

4. FOLLOWING FETTER DROF FOR A/I USE WEN CUTSIDE PERIMEN OR IN RMERCUNGYS

HUMPHREY BA BONCAVIL, PO BOX 892, GENERAI POST OFFICE, N.Y. I, N. Ta

5 IN• ADDINION REQUIREVENTS DIR 29095 REQUEST HE RIPORT ON POLLONING

A. POUR RELATIONSHIPS WITHIN CASTRO REGIME, PARTICULARLY BETWEEN 26 JULE

ROVOLUCIONARTES AND OLD-LINE PSP COMMUNISTS IN FORMULITION OF POLICT AND ADMIR

ISTRATION CONTROL.

B.. AL NDICATIONS CONFLICT WISHIN RILING CLIQUE.

;Co STRENGTH, ORGANIZATION, SQUIPMENT, STATE OF TRAININGS POLITICAL

RELIABILINY OF ARMED FORCES.

Do NATURE AND EXTINT OF BLOC ASSISTANCE INCLUDING ADVICE AND TRAINING

E. - CRITICAL ECONONE PROBLEMS FACING REGIME AND PLANS FOR COPING WITH THEM,

. StraNGrA, COMPOSITION, CHARACTER, MOTIVATIONS OF SUPPORT FOR OR

RESISTANCE TO REGIME.

Go

WHAT WAS PURPOSE RECUNT INFLUX SOV-BLOG TECHNICIANS PERUMEN. HOw

MANY, WHIHE HAVE THEY BEEN ASSIGNED, WHAT IS THEIR TASE, ARE ANY MORE EXPECTED,

IF SO HOW MANY, WHEN®

H. DETAILED INTO ON ORGAPIZZATION MIITARY SCHOOL NI WILL APTEND, ON

CURRICIUM, PERSONALITISS AND BEOG ASSISCANOE AND PARTICULARLY DEFATS ON

COCRDINATING OFFICERS

GROUP MALE

HELEASING OFFICIE

Exclurted from outomati:

domagisina ond

AUTHENTICH!!:

S30B AT

decidication

REPAODUCTON BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING. OSACE IS PROMITED

---

## Page 3

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECREI

$-62

ROUTING

DATE :

TO

• 154/3

6393

18 AUCUST 62

PARIS JANAVE MADRIT

DIRFATOR

PAGE

TWO

CONF:

INFO

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

-TO

INFO

CITE DIR

SPOCIALIZED TRAINING COURSES.

I ANY STATIANTS MADE TO A/I BY HICH OFFICIALS CONCERNING ABOVE

REQUIREMENTS AND CIRCUASTANCES UNDER WHICH MADE,

END OF MISSACE

# Reference RIBAT

TEW/FI Coordinated in dress Bonds

4 Destines

COORDINATiNG OFFICERS

"GROUP:

Excludod tem autematio.

SPORFE

scara alication

REPROOUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING: OFFICE IS PACHIGHLO.

OFFICE:

---

