# 104-10227-10182

## Page 1

104-10227-10182

DISPATCH

Chief, WiD

CIASSIIBIASHAS

SECRET

10

INTO

FROM

SURECT

PROCESSING

ACTION

MADRIO BOM 1914 RING

HO INIA RIDE, RIQUIRLO

CAM NILGE IRINXITO

MIC, 8IB 11 MA

Chief of BaBe, JMWAVE

JMZIP ADMIN

Paymento to Dependento Of "Icrocs and aryan"

See Paragraph 3

DIR 06846

1. Forwarded under separate cover io a 11sting of nil paymenta

presently being made by AMIRON to dependente

of heroes and martyre.

In addition

to the AMIRON payments JMWAVE 10 directly payine, the widow of AlGLAD-l (800

reference) and $300 per month to the widow of AlCUSP-l.

2. It la considered most induidable to torminate benefits to these

dependerito aspecially so long no subsistence paymente are continued to dependenta

of captured, missing and deceased strike force personnel.

If these fow payments

were discontiriued while the large group remained in a "pay" status the local

repercussions would-be loud and most embarrassing.

3. In any event it 1e difficult to arrive at a dollar figure that

would constitute on equitable lump-sum cetclement in

such cases.

: Instead 1t

1a suggested that these payments be continued until such time as a decision 1a

reached on dependenta of deceased strike force personnel and final scttlemente

be patterned after those decided on. for the strike force group.

END OF DISPATCH

Enclosure: Listing Referred to Above u/s/c

Distribution:

3 - Headquarters w/enel ASA u/s/c

"CÃOSS REFERENCE TO -- .

CLASSIFICATICAT

SECRET

DATE IYPID

8 Sept 61

DISPATCH SYMBOL INS NUMBER

UFGT 881

HEAQQUARTERS FILL NUMBER

DATE DISPATCHEU

SEP 1 1 1961

---

## Page 2

1 Senterber 1961

MEMO TO: Financo (Paul Doan)

FROM: FI

sueJEct: Monthly pagment to widow of anchor-i

WAVE pays a montily paymont of 1300.00 to tarta Couce VInas, the

widow of casper TRUErA Varona (AMCUSP-1) .

ATT ACHMENTS U/S/C

UFGT

881

---

## Page 3

14-00000

1..:

RELACION DE "IGROES Y THES Y SUS DEUENDENES"

He roos y Murtiros:

Jesus Carreras

JO30 A. Hierrera

Adalberto Fernandez

Glordano Hernandoz

Juvontino Baez Jr.

Fidol Sierra

Plinio Prioto

Plinio Prieto

UlLsos Silva

Dr. Xebra

Rolando Tamargo

Sergio. Martin Vidal

Popondent :

Viuda de carreras

Zunaida Sspinosa (езроза)

Adalberto fernandez (padre)

200 Hernandoz (esposa)

Flora Mas Machado (madre)

Estor Perdono (esposa)

Amparo Posada (viuda)

Maria C.. Ruiz (madre)

RoBa Soublette (madre.)

Isabel Ma, Suarez (esposa)

Van. de Tamargo

Amparo Vijal (madro) •

$ 200.00.

175.00

100.00

150.00

175.00

100.00

175.00

150.00

150.00

175.00

175.00

50.00

$1,075.00

Nota: Tenenos noticlay de 41e In Vaa. de

Porfirio Raniros esta

trabajando en

Cuba por lo que en el

no s0

le extendio el cheque..

---

