# 104-10171-10041

## Page 1

104-10171-10041

240 A

ONTO REVOLUCION

cherent

PROFUNDA:

40 м

Rodlo broadcasts id "i'llenera"

days- io: days ad Taurlaya

redresdays and Saturdays

9-15 paro

Broadcusted tarogh Radio "ravler" ind 20 more

SCHt1018°

b) Dramatical broadcastson sundays through Radio

scuatoriana. diso sonetimes throuch sadio Farqul.

(popalur stution).

iesLanere fi Coercio buito

il tele.ralo"

(huayaquit

• Universo" (Guayaquil

die can

count ou

those oi Guayaquil for any nelp wo neod. On "sl Co-

cercio"

, only litely because the uirector vag cionged..

Laramla

'Calle" Tas jages eech weok, Inis najazlne has a wide

Irculution

sizcd and directeu cy tho scle,ution university student

croup which

1a In contact with "Brigades".

Lately, pustos or tue biS curtyre dore launcied throu hout the streets

Organizations establlaned by tno deleiation-

1-lcclon int1 consista icuatoriana.

2 Coulte Pro-obtencion salvocondictos.

(Connite to obtain safe canüsets)

MICROFILMED

JUN? 1966

MICRO, BER

3-Conite tro-l'atria Silbertad

(Fatnerland and creedom) Ede

Except accion ulticomtiate, tue ocder two organization

with no support at all.

Trifg

a) Ibarra

b. Cuenca

c illobamba

d) vusjaquil

Ine coloration os traveled aid was ven contererces 1a

Astored Fron to July: ple

C& Clan 013: 00619-8020-19

308 166-009 01

20X:1

GUN GUEGA 5725

19-122349

---

## Page 2

DIRECTORIO REVOLUCIONANIO

EAT

ObT INTUL

satonle che

In salto, they auve beor

places.

de enclose rauer elippines.

Maroliti

---

## Page 3

• DIRECTORIO RE VOLUCIONARIO ESTUDIAN

lose antonte echerenile.con lut ideas on

Jator accoaptioned ty tie dele utioa at Ecsador.

-ordento inderenalente

d)

oviniento social Cristiano.

for the last cloctiong the seibers of tus Indereidleste Joiced the

oor sertadores,

wirnin: the deputy Zoise and nost or cao alcaldlas

(ayor's offices are era cada.

die

can roly fully on these tro groupso They mere decisive elements

In tno breaking of relations.

0) student fleld

he nave Its full surport, but holdsno in luence..

b) Jilversity

The

roup "briadas" Jiversitarlas wich nas accospilsned

reat. labor Inside the stuent field and in tae dian sector.

It 1g of lelt-tendenes but uss descratie. origine:

Faltersliad de diayaguil

the desocratic forces Joined togetuer for the last elactiona and

sucoied openly the stra da mesmainly led by the

Perigados".

se have the complete support of this rei.

3: 'reraldad de Quito

The executive comittee is con rolled by the Connists. Its president

19 .ilton Burkange ve nsve coinections

Insise the exec-tlva cornitee

with the representatives a1 dda:tolo 5o Victor no lesseerassa and of

arcaitecture, Sarcelo Aviles.

Liversity of cuito, alel lo nierre (Connlat and aviuraarende

personal shrien

ai castro.

Fresliente or tue l'ac.lztes are aostly decocratse, escent barique

islle os (rolitical sciences)

Ine represertatives In Ine salversity You:cil are all Lesocrets except

tao one ai diontolo y nelson duente, ard nilson Ferales.

deccions are deld in bica in tae conta or hovenber me are sure se

---

## Page 4

A DIRECTORTO REVOLUCIONANIO ESTUDIANIN

onle echoverié con tus ideas en marche

will suceird In Joinin; fraly tue venocratle corces and defeat tho Co-

munist Canaloney

üriterg dad do Cuence

aterely controlled by tne resocrats:Good cortacts

Ju versilded de tole

controlled by Connuriate to minist ceuter of the country.

c) Labor feld

Cen to cure led tested by victor caneza (thle den has

ORIT=

se nave Its full sufrort.

c can obtain fron its represen

tative at Ec-ador, ¿anolo

sariques, any

selp me want

There dre nany other aside federationa oi vorters that do not save

any force®

Marilita,

---

## Page 5

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

DIS PATCH

PROCESSING

Chilet, Task Force "

Chlot of station, navE AU

Operation /GY ROSE/ KUWOLTS

DAMSPELL Progress Report for August 1962

ACTION REQUIRED: REVERENCIS

Action: For your information

Ret

A. UFGA-5219, dated

20 August 1962

71

B..:

WAVE-7326

dated 20 August 1962

C.

D

WAVE-7526,

dated:

23

August 1962

WAVE-7635, dated

Б.

UFGA- 5419;

dated

25

August 1962

26 August 1962

F

WAVE-7917,

dated 30 August 1962

G.

WAVE -7899

dated 30 August 1962

H.

DIR-32503, dated 28 August

1962

I.

UFGW-1264,

dated 13 August 1962

1.

The Progress Report for AMSPELL, comprised of ANBARB and:

AMHINT

activities,

for the month of August 1962, follows:

A. ANSPEL

On 24 August 1962,

AMSPELL attracted world

attention a canne /prop opera tade endeulated to impress upon the

and Latin America the reality of Soviet fortificntion of Cuba.

In this, it was successful.

Subsequent developments nre reported

under respective sections of this

Prior to this action, and

certainly related to it, a JMWAVE-AMSPELL meeting on support/control

MICROFILMED

Distribution:

3 - C/TFW, w/att. u/ste

DOC. MICRO. SER.

ATTACHNENTS: A, B, C, D, E, F, G, H, 1, 3, & and L, UASHE Merck,!

CS classistsaised: 19-120-18

Бол: !!

Fold: 3

"CROSS REFERENCE TO

to turt

609# 1.37

Sadate: 788

8109178:88

CLASSIFICATION

S-E-C-R-E-T

145/00

14 September

1962: 1902

TFGA=5728

MEAOQUARTERS TOLE POMEBEA

009-120-280

20 ried

---

## Page 6

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

S-E-C-R-E-T

-UFGA $5728

was hold on 17 August 1962. The meeting was not successful. Behind

these nctivittes,

and concurrent to thon, JuwAVE continued processing

of 1) the PM Codar team;

2) organization of an AlSPElintel trencer

section and training of an intelligenco team (DANSON) consisting of

a radio operator and two agents and, 3) administrativels the pro

cessing of 111 201 files, updating them to include PRates

I and Th

NOC (1r applicable),

secrecy Agreemento, and technical/psychological

assessments where appropriate.

ho palaced Tone the deny couse copted relationshipse, ere var

it would be simply.

In spite of rapport at Case Officer Level,

there is-not JAWAVE control because of a conflict between ANSPELL

objectives (PBRUMEN liberation soonest) and continued ODYOKE lack 9

PBRUMEN policy:

2) Total AMSPELL Support Auguet 1962:

8. AMBARB Section:

Salaries

Operations

Processing

b. AMHINT Section:

c. AMSPELL.

Support

Salaries

Overhead

Operations

$50053.00

$12240.00

7700.00

2113.00

$ 3000.00

$ 9000.00

2100.00

13900.00

3) Intelligence Production:

WAVE-1415 - Truch Convoy in Area of Trinidad.

WAVE-1416 • Foreign Personnel at Guatana - Pinar del Rio.

WAVE-1442 - Arrival of Soviet Ships at Casilda.

WAVE-1156 - Arrival of Soviet Vessels at Castida

3 Trinidad.

WAVE-1457 • Arrival of Soviet Ships at Banes.

1) Development and-Plans:

All planning phases of AMSPELL activitles supported by.

IMWAVE

at the present time

are subject to the results of meetings with AMSPELL

concerning increased control, and, the decisions of JWAVE to continue

a support relationship if an

acceptable degree of KUBARK control can

be established. Meanwhile,

however,

in the developmental stage is the

organization and training of an AMSPELL Intelligence Section,

to

function independent of AUSPELL normal operations and directly in con-

tact with JMWAVE.

This will consist of two officers and no secretarte

who will process information gained from debriefing male and stemato

refugee

arrivals

as

well as AMSPÉLL operational returning. personners

Combined with this effort, Is the DANSON intelligence tenny which will

be formed around radio operator AMHINT-52 who has returned to opera-*

tional status.

The target date for infiltration of the DAWSON

team is

15 October 1962.

(See Attachment A.)

Also, the CEDAR team,

& PM

tenm destined for Oriente Province returned

from Isolation trampse

and are awaiting infiltration. (See Reference G.)

5) JMWAVE-AMSPELL Contact Plan:

'In accordance with Reference H request for JAWAVE-AMSPELL

contact arrangements, the following plan is submitted:

OLASSINCADON

PAGE AD

---

## Page 7

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

S-S-C-R-E-T

RATANO

UFGA -5728

a. ANHINTS:

SuBles R. ZANKA 08

AENT-2 for reular M

opernt tonal purposes*

Berrade PENA as his alternate:

LINKS has also mot chipose MarLa LASA 02

occasion concerning LASA direct liaison witn

Beadquar tors through FletcherS Koleht.

D.

AMBARES:

Rotert Q. NELANDER as "Jesse DAVEGA" meets:

AKERB-34 as regular operational contact.

AC4R5-16 as occasional pollcy/admid-contacts

ASARB-S3 as occasional policy/adain contact.

AMHIN/Z

Tuate 2 as an emergency AMBARB contact.

Pedro INTERIAN Garcia as emergency AMBARB contac

C. AMSPELL: Barold R. NOENAYR #8. "Roper Fox"

Pedro ISTERIAN Garcla as regular PM operatloui

Cordinator

AVRTST-X as regular overall AUSPELL control

NEIST-19 Radop for processing CEDAR team.

ANSIST-52 Radop for processing DAMSON team.

ANSIST 30 during processing ANHINT maritime.

ANSIRB-54 occasional legal/internationat:

B. "AMHINTS:

August began

with euphoria among AMHINTS because of the

return of some of

their members who had participated In the AMBARB

delegation to Helsinki and the reports of successful agit/prop carrled.

out at the Communist Youtb Festival held there.

This was not enough,

to offset the coatinuing frustration of failure to exfiltrate

ANHINT-53 on the RASTAN series of operations? Al though XuHINT 2 had no

returned from Helsinki and West Berlin as yet, the acting leadership of

AMSPELL vented their ire in a 6 August memorandum to JMNAVE, in which

JMWAVE was blaned for much of the support fallures in the AMHINT re/S

sectlon and too much operational interference in the AMBARB functions.

An urgent "intervies" ras requested.

When AMHINT-2 finally returned,

a meeting was held with him

ZANKA, NOEMAIR, and NELANDER represented ANHINTS, ANSPELL

JMWAVE control problem with AUSPELL.

not be considered a success..

In retrospect, the meeting could

Although some ANHINT paramilitary opera

tional problems were resolred, ANHINT-2 was adamant in retaining

control of AMBARB

funding of at least one official delegate In each

He refused

to eren discuss LCFLUTTER for himself - he did

assure those present that this was personal and that other

AMSPELL leaders maj subait at their own discretion.

One issue which

could have made for more rapport in the meeting, was that of support

for their vessel, the JEasiNI,

which has been

six months.

Negotiatiors on this point eventually fell through.com

pletely when AMSPELL rejected the terms of the Maritimez essel-suppor

The meeting ass concluded with arrangements for specrat

These meetings never materialized,

the interim Jove

approve the 'ANEIRS funding arrangement at least for the

moment - and play a waiting game on ANHINT-2 refusal to accept

techical and psychological assessment.

when all other

leaders had been

assessed.

AMHINT-2 could

Possibly' issued an ultimatum.

essentially "shaming" his into acceptance.

About this time,

20 August,

another message was received from

AMHINT-53 (Reference

He advised ANSPELL headquarters in Miami

that he would arrive on

mention of mode of travel, point of exit of entry.

the 2lst - no request for an operation' days

And as the

passed no sign of AWNIXT-53 either..

I MAGENO

---

## Page 8

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

S-E-C-R-E-T

UFGA-5728

Meanwhile, on 22 August, ANSPELL Coordinator Pedro YNTERIAN

Garcia, reported

that ANHINTS In PBRUNEN would transmit a shortwave

declaration sometime between 24 and 26 August concerning the buildup,

of Sovlet/Bloc men and matertel in PBRUNEN. This brondcast was ton

come.from the/viciniti. of Havana on about 3500 to 3700 Kcs;

and some

time between 2100 and 2300 hours local time.

pReference c). Althoughy

AMSPELL had been working fervently at collection of intelligence on

this very topic, the report seemed strange to the IMWAVE Case officer

le hro de mater past qur nets best atten under apply this as

dismissed,.

however, as another example of students

Irigenulty and

improvising.

KOLA and RINN were asked to monitor the report, but was

forgotten until the early morning of 25 August.

The AMILINT raid on the Rosita HORNEDA (now Sterra Maestra)

Hotel and the Blanquita (now Chaplin) Theatre in the Niramar sectlowe

of Havana at about 2330 hours local time on the night of 24 August 1962

has been reported substantially in Reference D. The press has

covered it to the point of satiation, but the essential press reporting

was forwarded in Reference E. As the smoke of cannon and cold war

exchanges cleared,

the operation could be analyzed for what it was,-

and

what it meant

to INWAVE in terms of the control relationship with

AMSPELL:®

As stated earlier in this report, it was an Agit/Prop actions

designed to alert the peoples of Latin America, and impress upon

the world, the reality of the Soviet buildup in

PBRUMEN. It was also.

destined

to - albeit students are apolitical by classical definition

place AMSPEll in a leading political position in framework of Latin

American and PBPRIME anti-CASTRO,

anti-Communist activities. cAMSPEbL

realized this and prepared for a

deluge of propaganda on the

By the time JMWAVE had received instructions from Headquarters to :

caution them about gloating over their success, this propaganda cam-

paign was already launched,

Publicity was a buyers market for thea

and there was not enough ANSPELL participants or officials to satisfy

the demands of press,

television, radio, and personal appearances.

Their degree of foresight and organization can be appreciated by the

fact that the AMBARBS throughout the hemisphere were standing by with

instructions for agit/prop should ODYOKE have decided to prosecuze the

AMHINTS participating in the action.

cannot afford to be very objective about AMSPELL

• revolutionary zeal that not only aggravates the cold war exchanges,

but places the Task Force • and ultimately, KUBARk • In an awkward

and untenable control position as far as PBRUMEN independent action

is concerned.

It would be no overstatement to say that this exile

group could sink a Soviet vessel and force ODYOKE to the brink of

war.

Therefore,

on 30 August, when AUPALN-4 reported that the sesh

attack on Havana was the first of a three-phase plan, the second stager

being an attack on a Soviet vessel in Havana Harbor - Subsequentl/m

abandoned

in

favor of an attack on a surfacecraft in Catbarten Harborr

it was obvious that the JIWAVE/KUSARK control relationship with a

AlSPELL must be submitted to a profound and firm reappräisal. This

was done under the supervision

of REUTEMAN and through a series of

conferences with TROUCHARD, ZAMKA, NOEMAYR and NELANDER.

The results

were reported to Headquarters by REUTENAN in WAVE-7899 on 30 Augusto

1962.

In short, this Reference reviews the ANSPELL independent course

of action,

consequent liability KUBARK, framework of the JWAVE

relationship with AlSPELL and present commitments, and pointed out

that

the ultimate test of the control issue would

be the severance

of AMSPELL support funds..

Headquarters comments and

concurrence

were requested but during the first weck in September,

this problem

was treated during a series of conversations between

the Chief of

Station and the Chief of Task Force.

A final decision is pending at

the date of this writing.

---

## Page 9

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

S-E-C-R-B-T

РАТОН. ЗГАЛАД ДУС ДИТВЕ

UFCI-3728

2) Total ANHINT Support August 19628

$37.000.00

3) Intellisence Production: (Reported under-Para, 1A33)

4)

Development and Plans:

All ANSPELL development

aid Planning are dependent upon

solution of the control issues outlined in this report.

• CovANBARB:

No new AMBARB assignments of personnel to delegations in Latin

America were made during August 1962, and no representatires of

AMBARB were withdrawn from their areas of assignment. Therefore m

personnel assignment listins for AlBARB glven in the June Prossesa

Report (UFGA-4810, dated 20 July 1962) Is accurate except for che

addition of ANBARB-8 and ANBARB-77 to the delegation in Uruguaying

01 AMBARB-85 to the delegation in Costa Rica, as reported In the June

Progress Report

No travel-of- AMDARB personnel to Miamloccurred

during the month of august except for the trip of AMBARB-75 from

Bogota on 10 August for

astay of several weeks during which to renew

his resident visa. AMBARB-16 departed 22 August 1962 for an Inspectton

tour of Latin American delegationg (WAVE-7468 and WAVS-744l) concern-

" 1ng which & report will be furnished, a main purpose of this trip war

for ANBARB-l6 to explore the AlBARB mailing operation capabilities

A listing of AMBARBs awniting assignment has been furnished m

UFGA

5739; & listing of dropped AÑBARBs has been furnished In UFGA-5Z0a

The ASPELL raid on Havana 24 August 1962 provided the dominant

theme for AMBARB exploitation subsequent to that eventanasmuch ag

this adventure was undertaken without JWAVE knowledge or concurrence

and counter to the policy of our government, it would be superfluous

of us to

comnent

that we regard the event with misgiving from'a stand

point of KUBARK

"control" over AMSPELL.

At the same time,

a clear

distinction must be made between the activitles of the AuBARB section

of ANSPELL and those of the organization's military leadership:

essentially, AlBARB serves only to promote propaganda activity in the

Latin American countries where AMBARB delegates are assigned: and

additlonally some delegates work on covert assignments with locator

KUBARK Stations in fulfilling GYROSE objectives..: The overt tasks of

the AMBARBS, however, serve to exploit the propaganda value of such

events as the 24 August raid and to capitalize upon information demon-

strating the fallures of Castroism and Sovietization of Cuban life;

as such, the AlBARBS are themselves removed from the center of such

controversial activities as the 24 August raid or the threats of

ANHINT-2 against shipping in Cuba.

Naturally,

the AlBARBs support

the policies of their organization and the statements of its leader:

as noted above, they could also bring their facilities to bear.

embarass ODYOKE, at the behest of ANHINT-2, in the even ANSplished

to mount a concentrated propaganda barrage condemning ODYONE respons

to ANSPELL's unilateral undertakings.

It 1s clear that the AuBARD

potential to mount any such campaign

controlled by KUBARK

of support -for ANsPeLl cantbe

only to the extent that local stations have

direct

dealings with the AMBARBs in Latin America®

JMWAVE, for its part,

exerts every possible effort to assure that AMBARB representatives

will not engage in any propaganda action likely to embarass OJOKE

or GIROSE policy courses.

We are encouraged to belleve that,

while

overall

JHWAVE

control of ANSPELL appears negligible at this time on

the large issues of striking direct blows against targets of oppor

tunity,

We

do have fairly good control over the subordinate AMBARB

leadership within ASPELL.

CLASSIFICATIONS

---

## Page 10

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH:

CLASETLITIN

S-E-C-R-E-T

UFGA-5728

Basic JMWAVE policy in respect to the AUBARB Section of thes

PANSPELL ordanizatIon has been set

in considerable detallain

our regular mouthly progress reports for lay, June, and July 1962%

our carltor remarks are still valid, and the

reader is referred tos

chen for a synopsis of our relationship with ANBARD and the song

JAWAVE attitude towards future development of this group. It shot

be kept in mind that AMBARB: 1s not a group over which KUBARK is -in

a position to exercise absolute control, but on the other hand it

must be regarded ns a distinct entits within ANSPELL 1tself whose

potential JalAVE hopes to develop at a separate pace without permit.

ting AMBAR assets to become embroiled in controversy over AMSPELL

paramilitary undertakings.

AMBARB is sensitive tn what it would regard as any RUBAR utto

Its organizationg therefore, in the matter of locat

Station funding of AMBARBS; we have

agreed that at least one AMBARB

delegate in each country will continue for the present to receivehis

salary directly from AMBARB. AMBARB argues that only by this means

can AMBARB retain the minimum control over its people necessary to

Insure satisfactory execution of overt ANBARB propaganda activities

(the furding for these overt activities will also continue to be paid

for the present by AlBARB to its delegates).

JAWAVE does not belleve

it would serve a useful purpose at present for local Stations to up

attempt to fund these regular AUBARB activities, since it should bes

remembered that these overt ANBARB activities give the organizatlou

its public reason for being and, therefore, a cover factlity undete

whIch AbbArEs may be utilized bj local Stations for covert activite

jealous of administering the funds for its overto

activities, JMWAVE feels it should be permitted to do so for the sake

of KUBARK rapport with the group. At the same time,-although. AMBARB

delegates receive from: AMBARB propaganda materials; thematic guldance,

and funds to cover local experses in carrying out

mission, local Stations are not precluded from exerting influence on

AMBARB activities supporting GYROSE objectives.

Since the local

Stations will be paying the salaries of all but one AMBARB in their areas,

as well as funding covert activities,

it should be possible for local

Stations to influence overt AMBARB work

substantially.

By agreement

with AMSPELL, all covert utilization of AMBARBS by local Stations is

strictly by arrangement between the ANBARB representatives themselves

and the local Stations,

and-AlSPELL expects no information concerninga

such covert use

either from JMWAVE or from its AMBARB representatives

in the field.

Station has

For example, in Chile the Santiago

assumed funding of all three AMBARBS, although BD-3269

that it fund only one AlBARE..

He convinced ANSPELL to accept

situation, so that in effect the

Santiago Station will exercise

direct, local

control of AMBARB salaries, even though AMBARBawl

the conduct of overt AMBARB•activities in Chile.

salary of

There is an additional advantage in permitting AMBARB to pay the

at least one of its delegates by mail from Miami and in

allowing AMBARB to disburse funds, provided by JWAVE,

for overt

AUBARB activities.

By this means JNWAVE is in a position to obtain

from AUBARB a coordinated monthly progress report of the total overt

AMBARB work; this report, forwarded in the group of attachments to

this dispatch,

furnishes Headquarters with a single point of

reference in assessing the overall AlBARB overt effort.

for its

Naturally,

part, UNWAVE does everything possible to elicit from AUBARE

as complete

an accounting as possible of the monthly propaganda

Since it is doubtful that a timely, coordinated picture of all ASBARB

activities in all countries could be obtained by means of separate

local Station progress reporting on overt AXBARB work,

JAwaVE con

Biders this system the most satisfactory for keeping tabs.on such

widespread activities; we are doubtful that any centralized control

---

## Page 11

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

CLASMANA

S-5-C-R-5-T

UFGA- 5728

over AMBARD propaganda could be achieved of thout peratit in che AMBARB

office in Miamt to retatn some somblance of control over

AMBARB

delegattons in the form of a monthly allowances or cainy for at

least one AMBARB representative.

Helsinkl Youth Festlval

A report prepared by AMBARB on ANSPELL/ANBARD partletpation 1n

the Helsinki Youth Festivnl is forwarded, torethey with cxamples of

press covorage, in Attachment B.

Also appended to Attachment B'aro

sno roports, with photographs, obtaired from AMPAD-1 on the Festival

Delegation Reports

Following is a list of Attachments coverios local ANBARB delega

ston activities in the vardous Latin American countrios. At fte

descretion leadquarters may wish to draw portions of these reports

to tho attention of local KUbARk Stations or discuss them with the

interosted WH Division desks:

Bolivia; Attachment C

Brazil; Attachment D

Chile; Attachment E

Colombia; Attachment F

Costa Rica;. Attachment G

Ecuador; Attachment H

Mexico; Attachment I

Panama; Attachment J

Uruguay; Attachment R

Venezuela: Attachment L

1) Development and Plans

General plans for the future remain unchanged as reported in

Progress

Reports for the last three months. A number of AMBARBs are

awalting assignment, as reported in a separate dispatch cited above.

Our main undertaking for the future will be to insure an orderly and

gradual transfer of AMBARB representatives to local Station control,

without impairing AMBARB morale by depriving the ABBARB office com

pletely of administrative responsibility.

as discussed above

belleves it is in KUBARK's interest for the local Stations: to tund

the majority of AlBARBs in

the field; at the same time. the AMARB

Miami office will continué to fund the minimum of AMBARBS nec

sary

insure an orderly flow of AMBARB propaganda material to local LA

the AMBARB delegations,

to gunrantee timely reporting

from AMBARB delegations to the central

AMBARB office in order to enable

of an overall progress report by AMBARB and JAWAVE on overt

ANEARB activity, and finally to insure the responsiveness of ANBARB:+8

JAWAVE efforts

to step up recruitment of delegates suitable for

covert use by WH Sintion in meeting GYROSE objectives.

2)

Intelligence Production: None

3) Support: See AUSPELL Support

AND OF DISPATCH

19-126

---

## Page 12

SPHIL INTEL

DEBKIEFING/REPORTS

ЗОрів Акорів

other bounces

his file

Croniero.

GS.

8

restricaston: 12.12037

1O6:609/651

DEPU

MIC

COUMIERS

RADOP

Am

1305/9

-726

Fernandez,

04

AlL

•IMWAVY,

8812

DASISON LATEL OPERATION

rojected

Op

out

vut

•nt-

15 Out 02.

finerren i

CUT Tonig

Cist

Out

RADOP

1 Amhint

Lazaro FAI

is Rule

inhe

Am

53

•10

MICRO. BL

MICROFILMED

Jund 1900

---

## Page 13

no echoi

DIRECTORIO REVOLUCION X LO ESTUDINERI

rcha

MICROFILMED f

- JUN 7 1966

DOC MICRO. SER

ALL 261. 0023N.

De Datonition From torth Korna, Communtrt China, And Sibe arrived

=t intrinht me- imminarade. Dro-luntrod Hantch elfizens Gno-t

of them acetve torters of the Pinntch Con untoo Party) arilated st

the rallroad ration to croot tin nevlu arrived. the "anran Uttrot"

(sonorter of tin Busts) in eomed them entluntar ically In an edttorta

published that dar

aaat night, the sulin inlor tes invitod all the Delee Alone to the

nan hotel, one of tre ort luxurious totels 1a sciate

to conmem

or to once in in tin attaci to the "uartel l'oncada,

The arronblyA

-ruelded by commandor Polando Julela: Secatere

Te Dolorattons fron Itili, Prince, West en ordin, Delatum, Canada,

fussia, and Guinea, arrived at tiel-inlil.

he neviv arrived dolpe tar and one of finnish reople demonstrated

Fublicly their Priondly ferlings touards end others.

Later, the Dis Daler tin arline fron Steel hoin andese

¿ to male contrate and ole "wer of intel lance var Initlatod. The

ity a Ine-ected and the number gecholorate ar

infrasand

CS Classificatien: 19-120-19

JOB 166-60Y/e1

Fold: 3

MEGASTRY

.::

18-100: 19

---

## Page 14

LLL

DIRECTORIO REVOLUCIONADIO ESTUDIINTA

The alret

confor nes convored be the prentiont of the Phenamont

O-zaniration Cornittoc, Irin

te prosence of 250 fournal-ta.

The neurnapermon made contiminl incitrler on Caretas alonit the 1011

number of atrenants it to Fortlel 87,000) or compared to the 30,000

attendants at the Site Tacttral hold in forcow Jarcas arcirred

that the Fartival rolled on the rumort of 74 Mattonal Student Unions

"that is, with the coot orld rtudents, torover, triedar Lenored

the bronce in the fortival of the Sit and the Sta, outinirations

which hold 1,200,000 lantch stidents, fiet which cle "ly revealed the

orro ition and dislie of Finnish routh toughe fertleni, Garcian also

renarkably referma th he fact this thore vere in Wo rinks "harrful

elsents rentch intoned to lorcott the con trilli

In "Irt or 0019991 to the le wral, dinin couth arra led done Fal-

rinli streets -ninetnall at Mannarhelm ive. ervine but courearcoud-

ly: "Lons live free Finland, coin Ith the fertival". In flew of the

dimenetone the mantrartition had accutred, ala callos arled tó tron.

It sport with horses, "lachjacks, in! tear car, but it anyar lartrd

intll aperorimately 2 o'clock. luny voung bors vore arrosted and the

police dars' strons could be heard throughout the nighte tho Die bale

Ine Me Inaugural marc witch ould tute nlace along fannochelm ive.

Actar intrn mouth had minteertol in o porttion to troporetval ander

ind throm etones on the offlelal curs, to determina to produce i

---

## Page 15

DIRECTORIO REVOLUCION RION STUDIY

lose antonio echeverrle con tus ideas on marche

-3-

vere

arrested that nicht.

JULY 22, SED'Y.

Around 4 o'clock that artornoon, to nembers of the D & Deloration ba

pon to preparo s ritton cloth wich testu lly said: "Froedom for, the

15,000 young prisoners in Cib:": It vas critten in Sernish, Delish,

and Fiench. The Pinnish transl tion ns not ready in time and could

not be presented. The cloth las a nite sheet zencuring 150 by 250 ems.

The rest of the eroip a persons- divided in to couples, one of whichl

would take photos end the other one would inspect the place in order to

find the most appropriate point to produce the incident

At approximately 6:30 that Inte afternoon, C-rlos Worn ndes, Jurn Manuel

Salvit, John Koch,

nd Sarique P-loyra, driving a v onen enr, tried to

bre al the line of spectators and place t'e car in front of the Cub n

Deler: tion which s

at thit soment crossine the bridge to warch before

the parliament.

But the poople did not go back, so they parlied the car

there.

roch and Baloyra climbed to the ton of the car and beran virorous-

ly crying out shile unfolding the cloth. The other two. -Hernandez and

Salvit- strued standinr in the street and later rushed hend against the

Coamunist Cubin Delerates. The police captured the two memberskor tho

deler tion that enr led the cloth and the other tv. succeededen egcoping

in the middle of the confusion hich as brought about. Photos on the

Incident sere taken by ina Diez an JoseiI. Pourtruez, menhers of the o3e,

and also b! the OBS and by photorr-phers or a neis agency of estern

Permony. The police seized the cloth and then relensed tle too memers

of the DiE tint had been captured, aiter having trien record of the in-

---

## Page 16

Close entonio e

HE DIRECTORIO REVO LUCIONARIO ESTUDIN TIL

con tidees ca marche

cident. Fros that nonent on, all the netlifties of ous bel gation vere

carefully fello ed by the Finnish pollee.

JUIN 30, POLY.

At 10 o'clock in the morning Juan N-nuel Salvat-called together a Press

confer ence in order to expirin tha rottres ts the freident produced the

day before. lil lestern nevs correscondents, in Belsinki, as vell as

representatives of the Finnish Pross, Vere present at 1t. Sach as

Elven a cort oi our booklet "The Forversion of a Unive sity" Ve had

the onportinity to mect several dolceites froz the Sciss Coordination

centerg

also a Cuban naded Pedro souls quintero Who at first seened a

Little suspicious, ant a Congo native member of Par Romana. He headed

that ofternoon to solicit credentials to take part in the official acts

of the Festival as represant-tive deler tion of the not Communist Cuba.

After having visited two or three orr-niantion centers of the Internation

al Preparatory Comnittee of the Festival, ve desided to go directly to

Jean Garcins, President of the Costittee and highest hie erchiel ficure

of the festival. C-reins avoided the probles telling us, as had the

other officials of the festival, thet e should suseribe in the orfielai

Deleration froa Cuba, which ve evilently did not

: 2o.

in merlean nerspaperian accospnnied us 1n all our estivities tor

the credentials. He apparently seared to master hissel? controlling his

nerves during a1l the time. e do not renember his arse, le called him

Roger, and sade a pleasant.

impression on aspe

Furtar the rest or the dey

nothing inport-nt of regarkable took place, -the acts o: the Festival,

which had ready lost strenth, vere hold rel tirely normally. Once

-2212, Incidents between Finnish south and the police took place that night

---

## Page 17

DIRECTORIO REVOLUSIONARIO ESTUDY SNOUL

Jose antonio eche

verna con tus ideas on mercha:

JULY 31.- That afternoon wa asaisted at a talk, counting on the supposed

quarantee offered by jarcia that we had a right to

at-end old the noes

of the Festival-o noger came alory iith us and recordod the discusaton

arouned between the oil'icials of the festival and Juan Manuel Salvat and

ind Diss Silvelra, who argued and objecied that we nad been told we had the

tight to speak at the talk. de reftred aisclosing our protests in presence

of the many reporters ino nad non cone about us.

That night again, quarrels between the rinnied police and cho

opponents to the restival toon place. colico acted nore severely this time,

since the manliestütluns vere ureater and more vislont than tite pr

previous

ones. They stretcaeu forthliannernelm ive, through various zones or the

city:

---

## Page 18

DIRECTORID REVOLUSIONARIO ESTUDIANITES

iverrio con tus Ideas

marche

46-

AJUST 1 + 101ESDAY -

st 9 Sharp in the nornine we went Into tie place where thes aere cole bracing

the final neeting of the Soninary for the venocraticution of the Boutacion

it the ho lorin: they ald not let us bot in, but aftervaras so mot sulas

joung nan way yound won uny srunted us some credentials. Cals man wus

interroguted by russians no kidnapped him during the eveat. Being us

inside, we sot a spot for speechine, and we had, also, the right of a

taree-inute speeching in case de raished to do it. Thore vera 8s speechers

before us.

At 12:30 fi. ie lid i brake. at the exit sure there very aboout 40

members of the red Cuba delei tion who tried co provoke us. They were

diiected

by Venegas and alreon. Nothing happened cause we ware waiting

for the eventas session to produce a great end.

when we returned back It was 3.30 m.. Inis time re couldn't make

It®

Then we began to discuss our points of viow. In the ciscussion, more

or less, Robert Pinel, Frusidont of tue International Infor of Students,

told us we had no right to participate In the suminary cause a were exited

cubans. In all the aiscussion we were sorrounded by security agente of tho

International Froparatory Comnitte.. The conversation was recorded byson

american correspondent.

The discussion flulsned nen finel broke it up.

Another azarican.

correscondent iniorned

us tant the finis, police wus seening as with an

order

of extradiction, de decided there, to abandon the pisce end retire

back to thias bolt about tao ned situstion and take a decision at 6pm

koen and Balagra vere Intercepted of an arnored jeep of the linton police,

---

## Page 19

DIRECTORIO ROVOLUCIONARIO STUDIANCH

Jose ontonio echeverlo con tus Ideas en marcha..

57-

Thoy were conduced to the

police Station.

Arter a three hour stayin, there thoy put them in Jail. Keanwitle.

Salvat, lernunder and blaz nua another meting vito the press, und

they

Informed publle oriniou about tao evening deeds.

The Impartrial observers nud violent reaction alairt tue International

Permanent Comnitteg after tney knew tuls deeds. The press failed trying.

to make contact with the Ingristoned duu delegutes, bocause finish pol109

didn't want a single nords about it. lue rest of or deleg tion was affraid

from kidnappins, but after thor ass information to police about both there

knew the truthe

Inoy belleved it becuuse slace days ago, our movements

were watched, and by the mere face thut a middle, azed guy from irgentina

trled to make contact with is and aftervards, me could know

he was JAIME

CODOVIL well known member of NoK•V.D.

Theil day finished with che firsn pollce sinding out two automatic

pistols in the luegaze at the station wagon were roch and Balayra were

arrested, The pistols sere a 38 star and a S' caliber automtie pistols.

---

## Page 20

DIRECTORIO REVO LUCIONARIO C STUDIANTI

lose antonlo echevere con lus ideas on marche

August 2, Thursdy;

The day begin with the rusor that a bomb blasted at

the Finnish Commist Party Hendguarters.

Ater a four hours runstlontor, durinr hach the nolico

tried to seck who

sronsored rimincially our delerstion, what controts

did the deleration cale and other routine questions, the 2 laprissioned

zenbers of our delegation vere açsused by pollce as responsable of the

nicht riats, ilegal reapon possesion and vore submitted for deportation.

At 5 not. they were

rolensed under their word tot ke the first plane

to Stockholre

The rest of the deloration put a flower orfering at

¿ariscal Hauner heine Statue, and they

pave tho press the follovine declara sis

tion:

rifter this evonin incident in which mombers of DRE

orranintion or cub a exiled souths, vere corbidden to assiste a Coloquiun.

convocated by the Sth. louth Erstival, it has been stated that such festivals

are merely a subject at the service of the ends and purposes commist

tot.litarime:

DRE representation have been eating efforts to express

themselves in the festivel. This ornine scened to be thabethey would have

the opportunity to make it, then they cot it from d euy named elde

member

0: the Chilean Radierl Youth.

They aprointed Junn lanuel salvet ac

train speecher.

The subject yes. Petional Inde endencey

then they rerched the place where the Coloquium was

---

## Page 21

LR

DIRECTORID ROVOLUCIONARIO OSTUDIANTILS

ente con tus ideas on

held they were rerused. The conlar miritive fron the adassion corission

as supported by a retition rom muor su gormaniention controlled bran

Idel Castro's red roverment, as 3o tivri onleials suld.

DRS ronacantatlers son to Helsink 1th the marose.

of havine a niblie deb ate about the situstin in their homeland, mare

15,000 youth 're in ressioned by the sere fuet of ornosing the totalitary

parime sho has de troyed public lllerties nd defall the people to an

chance of electine a rovernant by room, vote

is ertience that tils is shet is rolly hapnentas

Cuba, the official representation on old here

toy the pover and totalitary

organi ations, stay co-rined at a bullara in lol-and. They neve so

chance to freely comu leate iith the reorde, in they are under ferr stricts

regulations, as th finish reople con prove loy himsol!.

DRE qualifies as arbitrary and luxuntous Intolersnce,

when they conplaint ar-inst they deed, any they warns the void pitic

opinion arainst this kin o. events th hit never the aulfeet by iss they

are convocated is trented. They clays take nositions and they aake sheir

best efforts to stinulnte subversion jeeds that could conclude in th

submission of the free vorld to soviet Ianocalism, as it's Just ha:

In cuba.

The delentlo:: Einished their declaration promisin- to

continue the erus-de tleyhere began to ilbert: Juba frou de potise, erassion,

---

## Page 22

DIRECTORIO REVOLUCIONA JO ESTUDM

Jose antonio echeverrio con tus idee:

-10k

I-tolcrance nd totriitarisa.

At 9:50 p.7. Roch and Baloyre tock thie ri de to Stockhole

of the deloration la't Helsinks finlohing

At the next diy the rest:

"operntion lielsink1".

---

