# 104-10098-10301

## Page 1

104-10098-10301

TO

DISPATCH

Chief, ki. Mivlaton

CLASSIFICATION

INFO.

PROCESSING ACTION

MARKED FOR INDEXING

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED DESK

CAN JUDGE INDEXING

THOM

_Chief of station, Maxico C1tI

SUBJECT

LAURAY FrOsTeRA Report/Auset, Seytanbor, October 1963

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

Hef: 11011-22029

Action: For Jour inferuation

The following report is subadtted in accordance with CAREF 52-0-1,

section V, paragraph 2 (a) (1).

A. EXPLOTULAXION OF LEADE

(2)

In the course of the reporting perlod ITERAT

covered two targets of INNICT Interest. One of thase Inos vas emnidered

productive ol operational lande but mun temporarily dincantimed for operation

ronsons. Coverage of the sond 11ne ma terulnted for lact of production.

Te only lead produced fron this lina vas roportad an la ENIA-22164, LIFEAT E

contined to cover two linen iz comection with the ANSIFUI operation.

product ol this coverago la ol Interest to Spaclal Affairs Staff and WAVE ar

he tolo 1a forvurded vestly to there custoners. Recently this particular

coverage has provided infomation of interest on the relationships within the

tendly of Fidel CASIRO and the contiming daterioraiion of these relationhis

Corazage of the hone phone of a Cuban official me instltuted at the request .

a Sucial Affairs Stall officer to support the senaitive AVROD operation.

(2) LIVEli/Sortet

ITsAr castinod 1ts coverage oi the home phon

of two known Sorlet Intelligence officers.

Product and use contiman at rope

in raference.

Coverage of one of these lines mo discontinued during the rec

absonce fros leadeo of me of these targets. Thia coverago la now being re-

Inutated.

(3) LIFEAT/Polish

Recent LikEar Information fron coverare of thi

targot has indientod that a sentor Poliah official, 1n Mesico le conductuag a

affair with the wife of another Polinh oftielal..

The LIFEAT lead sas the bai

for further Station action in this case. LIvely has Increased Its coverage

support of the posalble future recrultment attoupt. Also in the Polish fle

LIFENT provided coverage of a suspectod Poliah 1llagal residiri in Musico.

(cantinued)

Distriation:

3 - c/www

16094

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

20044-22536

CLASSIFICATION

SECHET/RERAT

DATE

HQS FILE NUMBER

50-6-3013

---

## Page 2

CLASSIFICATION

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NO.

B0A-42030

Eten solivity la thie ema lac boca liaitel

to common of tha bon phen et a Conci intelitganso officer.

to ente 1azele es operationi value bas teroi un ca tiso luna athar thea blo

eine ante os interent.

5) WFE/Ex13E

viel trantion ol intera so unu clo piomel tram und the dritys

to that trumal an mil es lis dime ter l paso os clant.

te matale natur

meraltenst ottempt of bar. Tus emergn bes añoo mnloa thie station to

mins mothar Mation of the rouble muronnbility to rocitat si

Contes son the country of concer to thet Dontten.

paragranh Loto (5) abera, conscuso of a mabor of the PCli Ceutaal Comalitoo,

081101828.

han been Truste as variante

• sas ortsee 1e de jarruarly attu in covorins neremento of Amrica

«'tiste and Cosnlets uno trarel to Madeo und tropusakly eu to Ques

le al luteroat to Burt, legartens nod the sntor ostarr offloos un Medito

This ani the pomanso of a related lias cunble the Interstod euatouere ta aio

sain o ched m tho foraer supra esnat'e netivitico nalol neo senions tho baet.

Interst al FinDE

Ro changes

latmna-1 has manod to catana lio "countasion" do trtentlester of personeol

tae ERCiatT seotion belet.

No chansa fos previous reports.

FORM

10-57 53a

1461

WirsuD l's artorts to exteni hin lamatientivo coniouic to cores canisynes

has proma necanstel.

Thie gradly lacrenas the

nocees ci LaLiiAl and somat raducos the murity thrat to the LIERAI 11000

and contral am ven vorting on Intalintion, manle of renoval o LIPElt cacesca.

Ito latter sou sot bo fully nunted since 1t la son eparent that la hie rotirol

atus thoral can nover 1ruide the suronel bred in protection to theat tur

manne? thri ni could pior to his rotiremt.

Although the riok tohort in

san not hs completaly allmrstod, lt 1u falt tant it

co be retend to s voratle lemel.

Tu coreren of the Inconien Entamy I1mn bus boen esmund by Ibator.

Peratore InPl u111, pot bure to sen the partieuler mal of roastahlinhins

Ebe comuss, Il usa the necamarily comllected "jup" froa me castel see

to mother that alerted the talentune conony cre to cheal the tap 1300 mullez

PAGE NO.

Ust PRevious tolIoN

REPLACES FORMS

51.28. 51-28A AND 51.29

WHICH ARE OBSOLETE

CONTINUED

5109

Mosait

---

## Page 3

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION

320247/5214T

DISPAICH SYMBOL AND NO

FA: 22536

Do HELEN

No change 190s prevlosa raports.

he coreman provided by lift dulm dos mportine perlad toteled a

separate 11008.

A angelion by target la an fallous

1.

i, 5 and 6. Palleh hang nod Coresal Offsee

MEanEr Operation

Cuten Comarcial Attache

Csoch Intollume oftleer

11, ani 12.1

Tansate of tallich antareet

and releted 1izs

let and minted Ilno.

Duntag tho roportias purlod i sambar at momoda vare projeroi by ta

station for paarlie so Local GDACO nad CDIVY inand in shole or in jart on

LIves provided antertel.

Furtes, the tallanus 101 vare inned o lIPus provide intoraties:

5504-7574

109S-7745

B0Y5T6

J2NC-7797

806-7596

IN T9В

244-7603

106-7825

paLa

1084-7086

XBOL 7630

AM 705)

-766

1B8:-7667

BS67619

HA-7602

161-7721

10N1-7732

Bat TOY

114 7315

108-7879

3031-7898

TA4-7900

1001-7922

1794-7752

mined to Citess

16094

PAGE/NO.

CLASSIFICATION

_CONTINUED

---

