# 104-10173-10085

## Page 1

104-10173-100851

MICHOMILMED

ANN 4 1962

_DOC. MICRO. SER.

H: AUG 1961

ES I 3/706,545

TO:

Director

Poderal Bureau of Drosthration

Attantions.

Me. So to Papiah

Deputy Direotor, Plane

SOJECTA Marvin KANTOR

NETUBN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Reproduce

I, Reference 10 made to thio office ESCIn3/166, 6a, deted 9 1uswat 1963,

acntering the above subjense

2o We have spoonkly learned that KANTOP hau returned to Copertain, Damsapk

man a trip to Ingonlavia, and that he plona to depart for hew Tori ta carly

Septeber®

He has recartly beon In dally contaot with one Willia STaTSOIH,

an Aarloan eltinen bora abord 1933, who do currently Iiring In Fermint without

• roodence pardt. We hava bean advised by a usuntly ra table suroe that

ETEDIT has milnentnod a olendestine contaor with a Cuban alitalal in Coper.

anger, and that he han sold pro-cAsito artiolas to the looal Danton prous.

save aloo bean advieed that KANTOR recently obtainod a cheul for $1000, outersibly

tron his fathes, to pay for bla fare baok to the initod States.

mattere

No 111l formed to you any additional Information ua my meniro in this

Is 10 marooted, In the meantime, that 1t may be fa orim to ascertedio

Is poolblo, whather kAtorin fathes has in last recently coquired the abovo

mentioned me and forwarded 1t to the subject.

C00I-3/768,6465

WE/1/CE/HOranquistspo

- 17 August 1961

Distributions

2 - Federal Bureau ci Investigation

1 - CI/OPS

I a CI/PBeA

2 - WE/1

1 - RI (201-279710)

breed ong

19-6

4567

15 Aug 6l

1201-274710

NOPOPE/COSTINUED CORPTIOL

6s tori

---

