# 104-10063-10019

## Page 1

104-10063-10019

EJ. UNZLASSIFIED

INAL

ONLY

CONF.

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

ITIAL

SECRET

SUBJECT: (Optional)

FROM:

Chief, CI/SO Richard Ober

TO: (Oficer designation, room number, and

building)

RECEIVED

DATE

EXTENSION

5847

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

FORWARDED

2.

3.

4.

NO.

B-2219

DATE

1 6 NOV 1970

COMMENTS (Number each comment lo show fram mom

in whom.: Draw a line across colume after asch comment.)

internat Usa Only

This memo is not to

be

disseminated outside CI/SO

without prior permission from

Chief, CI/SO.

Originated by: CI/SO:

Based on:!

419

16 October 1970

Source: (ALSAC/3 unilateral

Dissem to FBI. (Mr. Wannall)

via CI/SO courier on 1 6 NOV 1970

ACTION:

6.

7.

9.

10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

13.

File: ALSAC/3

PKOD LE

PROD

7092

610 ve merous

SECRFT

FANFINCATIAI

MY INTERNAL

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECRET

TONGGA BROSEN NO LANSEE AEROAD

B-2219

1 6 NOV 1970

TES:

Ti:

SUBJECT: Sigmund EISENSCHER (NL) 3

A sensitive source has reported that one

S:: EISENCHER of the Communist Party of the United States.

of America (CPUSA) , his wife, and one Leon LNU./werc

vacationing in Sochi, U.S.S.R.; during August-September

1970. (Comment: EISENCHER/is probably identical with

Sigmund EISENSCHER/ (see your Milwaukee, Wisconsin,

memorandum of 5 October 1970, Subject; Sigmund Gustav

EISENSCHER). Leon INU is probably identical with Leon

LOVE (Bureau file number 101-5112)•

According to EISENSCHER the CPUSA has close to

14,000 members, the majority of whom are laborers.

Over 25 percent of the members are blacks who function

basically in the North Anerican black movement.

Party has recently organized a young Communist movement..:

(Comment: This is probably the Young Workers Liberation

League.): The CPUSA participates heavily in the labor

movement. At a recent (unnamed) labor meeting of repre-

sentatives from various regions of the United States, the

CPUSA had direct influence in 26 of the 50 unions repre-

sented.

The magazine Labor Party plays an important role

in coordinating movements within the labor ranks.

Despite

numerous barriers (sic), the CPUSA is concentrating its

efforts in Chicago, Los

Angeles, and New York, as well as

other regions of importance.

The CPUSA has recently

adopted a common strategy towards the peace movement.

(Comment: The indication here is that the Party did not

previously have a unified approach.)

3. EISENSCHER stated that criticisms of the Soviet

Union by the radical left Maoists, Fidelists, and Trot-

skyites cause problems, but they appear to have abated

somewhat.

There has been a warming in the relations

between the CPUSA and the Communist Party of Cuba as a

NO FONZION DUS.

BEGINS DISSEM ABNOAD

62281

Excalso teete mati

---

## Page 3

14-00000

SECRET

NO FORCION DISORGIMO DISSON ABSE

result of CPUSA National Chairman Henry WINSTON s

trip

to Cuba following the June 1969 World Conference of

Communist Parties

While in Cuba, WINSTON conversed

with Fidel CASTRO/and other Cuban leaders.

4..

Leon LNU gave the following instructions to one

individual for future contact in the United States, if

such

contact should become necessary: In New York City,

the individual should

telephone Leon at work (368-9913)

or at home (368-5955) and arrange for a meeting which

would take place behind a telephone booth on the street

at the New York Public Library. (Comment: Our records

indicate that

in 306-903

is the phone number of the Benjamin Davis Bookshop /

2529 8th Avenue est Work Va CACTUS chamel

Originated br: CI/SO

Based on:

Source: A

Distribution:

419, 16

Oct 70 filed(ALSAC/3 sens

ral)

Original - FBI (Mr. Wannall) via CI/SO courier

1. B-memo chrono

extra copy file

1 - ALSAC/3 sens kj

SO PETERA COUND BASTE AEROME

---

