# 104-10185-10095

## Page 1

104-10185-10095

Doritaine: code

NO FOREIGN DISS

парія на тр.

FORT NO:

DATE DISTR

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES.

Свет 310/01203-69

75 Septeader: 1064

RETURNTO CIA

Backseround Use Only

• Do Not Roproduce

3

DATa ON 1864

UNFO

PLACE & M985100000

DATE ACC. SCOTCHUCa

1904

FIELD REPORT NO

SOURCE MA

Corror Cubin IS officer who served with the Cuban

Isroll resce Sorvice until April 1964.

Hercquarters Corrents

The followay report is one of & sertes contalaing

poreonality intormation: provided by ho source md includes

sle ental Information fron the records of this Agency.

•It lo roguostod that tho addressoes tako no action on any of

the Indivicuals centioned la the personality

reports without

"rot chocking with this heoncy.

Ovidió Sar Viamonte, pseudonys "Salgado,"_ is the Cuba:

Vice. Conser aù Veracruz,.

mexico.

He was recently. (doril 1964)

sicivod in the shooting of an individual who artempted to:

"so's the Corsulate: SArA is out o1 jail on bail.. Souice said

c== 5. A isinn officer of the Dircocion General de

I-zelizuncia (General Dircetorate of Intelligence - DÓI)

Iscough source has no docurentary proof; he said he knew of sat's

Crbig lacelligence alfillacion from his own (Source's) trip,

Larico; don observations in the ldl Headquartors, and fron

gerecal shoptalk.1,2,3ja,g

HealpuraTors Connents

1. =.

rikprIl 963. report Identified Ovidio SAMA Vianionie,

-Cuban

passport zirber 63/174; as a Cus diplonat assised to the

Cuban Consulate In Veracruz, Larico.

2.

*usually reliable source, in = report dated 21 bay 1963

stated that Ovidio Saik was the Cuban Vice Consul"

in Veracruz.

Mexico, and chat he was quite sici with an amoeba:

S E

Z. T

NO FCREIGN DISSEM

I NAVY

1 лія

CIXCSO7

IGNS

• Reaso+0-16 910

TBI 2

STATE

'I ARAT

CICLET

(Nes: file dispit is indicated by "=*?

5

•$

I

civic Bicy.

2/S: /2022 -2/5/2

4711451/9

HI/SA/CIA

Tarans

ia/s. T (1),

16d: 1565

CI/LA

2 CI/REA

LEID/AN

UTE

3IE

iS. 1 (2), CI 4, RID 1

1830

28-2263

NO PROJECT 11101.

CSCI-316/012J3-6%

ABALSONG

3/p0

---

## Page 2

NO FOREIGÄ DISSE3

CSCI-326/01203-6-

3 .

14..

in unsrstod scurcö, an a r'cpout dated 23 lag 1963,, saidihe had

"ruveda "er.ueon 14 dar 1903 frouin: frlend.o. 1sin. Cuoa töt

igcidd that i

sacit of. the cluan u=z, posiag as a rcpresontrtivo

oj tie Doidtimà

winareneht orchc. Institutc tos Pie:dsain wichy

Peopied, miráled

recontly in dcsico.

The agent, know ondy by.thes

aiclsano

"Siri," as operating in Veracruz, dexiço.

J lsuriry ccllablo source, in a report dated 6 June i9g3, statod

Tliao Cvldio Siil, an employee of the Cubin Consulate in Vcracruz,

was in des:co City where his wife had just arrived fran Cuba.

Viarorto, she Cuban Consul at Veracruz, Mejico, nas jailod in

mesáco City on 16 April 1964 after shooting and wounding Alejandro

REIJOSO Hcrrera, & Cuban ejile. REINOSO threw tuo dolotov cocktatis

at the Consulate.

202252

SE CRET

NO FOREIG*

DISSEX

---

