41047010883),

ee

wae

~ + RELEASE AS SANITIZED

TERMINATION SECRECY AGREEMENT 1998

1. 1 acknowledge that by virtue of my duties | have been exposed to or the recipient
of classified information, which, in itself, or by the implications drawn from it, is highly sen-
sitive and. its. unauthorized disclosure or negligent handling could adversely affect the interests
of the United States. 1am aware that the unauthorized disclosure of classified information
is prohibited by the Espionage Laws (18 U.S.C., Sections 793, 794 and 798) and that a vi-
olation of these laws may subject me to prosecution by the U. S. Government.

: fof

2. | hereby reaffirm my pledge that | will never’ publish or reveal by any means such
information, 1 agree further that | do not now, nor will I ever, possess any right, interest,
title or claim whatsoever to such information. 1 recognize the full and vested property right
of the United States in such matters. vA

Sec Bef, _—9

3. | certify that | have:surrendered-and no-longer have in my possession or custody any

classified information or material acquired as a result of thi ssoclation.

-. a =
4. | further ‘acknowledge and agree that ! have a continuing individual responsibility
to the United States Government for the protection of such information and that the termina-
tion from this relationship with my employer and/or the United States Government does not
relieve me of my obligations under this oath or any other previously executed Secrecy Agree-
ments. | understand that | will not be relieved of these obligations except when specifically
advised in ities by the sponsoring activity of the U. S. Government,

5.1 understand that this oath may be retained by the U. S. Government for its future
use in any manner within the scope of this oath, : ae Pe

6 Viake this obligation freely, without any mental reservation or Purpose of evasion
and in the absence of duress. ‘

“NAME (Type or Print)...

ye 0. Wargoree | Pad L. Chet

Veggen— We) Ki Opret’

ALPR_ NAME & ADORESS OF AFFILIATION

a4 NUV 1370

RM 2442 SECRET’ oy

(When Filled In)

SECRET. a au
(When Fittoa iN HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

.
