# 104-10106-10215

## Page 1

104-10106-10215|

BESTOS NEW YORK, COUNTY OF

Orthe 2nd

day of

personally came

Er YORK

55:

MARCH

hüsband and

1978, before me

and

wife,

to me known to be the individuals described in and who

executed the foregoing instrument, and acknowledged that

they executed the same.

STATE OF HEW YORX, COUNTY OF

$3:

On the

day of

19

• beiose me

personally came

to me known, who, being by me duly sworn, did depose and

say that

he resides at No.

that

of

he is the

in and which executed the foregoing irstrument; that

knows the seal of said

corporation; that

she seal affixed

to said instrument is such

corporate seal; that it was so

affixed by order of the board of direciors of said corpora-

tion, and that

he signed h

name thereto by like order.

Mortgage Sate

TITLE NO.

WITH

STLISUTO FONY CF NEW YORA BOLD OF TITLE ONDEKHRITERS

Distribuled by

CHICAGO TITU

INSURANCE COMPANY.

STATE OF HEW

R*, COUHTY OF

$5:

On the

personally came

day of

19

• before me

10 me known to be the individual

described in and who

executed the foregoing instrument, and icknowledged that

executed the saine.

RETURN SO CI

BaCkground Use Cniy

DO Not Reproduce

STATE OF NEW YORK, COUNTY OR

$S:

On the

day of

19, before me

personally came

she subscribing witness to the foregoing instrument, with

whom I am personally acquainted, who,

being-by me duly

sworn, did depose and say that

he resides at No

;

that. he knows

SECTION

BLOCK

LOT

5

1406

26 - Tax lap

COUNTY ARRONEX NEW YORK

Recorded al Request of

CHICAGO TITLE INSURANCE COMPANY

Return by Mail 10

moris. Brad, sited

116 Ane

1y44810012

Zip No

---

