# 104-10151-10073

## Page 1

104-10151-10073

•SUBISCT: "lOational)

FROM:

Toil ride designation, coct Pompor tand

bwilding)

SCOTT

WHITF

JUTING AND RECORD

SHEET!

EXTENSION

SECRET

NO.

DIR. 74830

•- 5945:

DATE

OCT 11. 1983

"DATE

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

COMMENTS (Numbor ouch commoni lo

show from whom

to whom.

Draw a lina across column after each comment.]

RECEIVED

•FORWARDED

2.

3.

DEAL

Do ChiN

Goodnente

Ho for phoes.

paring

10.

15/

182.

12.

Paul NES

15.

13.

14.

DAiuTo

63

DO NOT ME THESE.

OFY FOR INDEXING.

A tro

SECRET

D

S

CONFIDENTIAL L

F-8573

CRET

INTERMAL

USE OHLY

UNCLASSIFIED 2

22606

0003033

249

PAGE -

COPY. NO.

319

---

## Page 2

SisTR:

ICTION:

NFO:

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

CLASSIFICATION

DATE:

FILE:

11 OCT 63

DEFENRED

INCOMING NUMBER

INITIALS

ROUTI

PRIOPITY

OPERATIONAL

IMMEDIATE

102229Z

3945

5.0-8.-10-6

DIR 74832

REE OSWALD

WHO CALLED SOVEMB I OC

LEE HENRY OSWALD (201-289248) _BORN,18

ARABLY IDENTICAL •

¡LOUISIANA FORMER-RADAR OPERATOR 'I

NEW ORLEANS?

WHO DEFECTED: TO -USSR •IN OCT 195

STATES MARINES

BLUE EYES.

ONE HUNDRED SIXTY FIX

FIVE FEET TEN

BROWN WAVY HAIR, L

31 OCT 1959 HE

STATES_CITIZENSHIP TO TAL

INDICATING HE HAD APPLIED FOR SOV

BOUNCE HOSCUNETED

CITIZENSHIP•

ON 13 FEB

THE US EMB MOSCOW RECEIVED AN

UNDATED LETTER FROM OSWALD

? years

POSTMARKED MINSK ON FIVE FEB 1961 IN WHICH SUBJ INDICATED.

HE DESIRED RETURN OF HIS-US-PPT: AS WISHED :TO • RETURN TO USA

COULD COME TO SOME AGREEMENT CONCERNING: THE DROPPINGA

OF: ANY LEGAL PROCEEDINGS AGAINST ME." TON & JULY OM

INITIATIVE HE. APPEARED AT THE EMB WITH HIS WIFEST

ABOUT •HIS

RETURN TO STATES• SUBJ STATED THAT HE ACTUABLY HAD

NEVER APPLIED

FOR SOVIET CITIZENSHIP AND THAT HIS APPLICATION AT

THAT TIME HAD BEEN TO" REMAIN IN

USSR AND FOR TEMPORARY EXTENSION

OF HIS TOURIST VISA PENDING OUTCOME

CITIZENSHIP! ACCORDING TO OSWALDE CONTAINED NO REF TO SOVIET

•OSWALD STATED TAT

HAD- BEEN EMPLOYED SINCE.

13 JAN 1960. IN 'BELORUSSIAN

RADIO AND

TV FACTORY. IN MINSK

WHERE WORKED AS METAL WORKER IN RESEARCH SHOP•

MARRIED ON 30-APRIL 1961 TO MARINA NIKOLAEVNA

DENTAL TECHNICIAN BORN 17 JULY 1941 USSR. NO HDQS TRACES.

HE ATTEMPTED ARRANGE FOR WIFE TO JOIN HIM IN MOSCOW SO SHE.

1-21

COULD APPEAR AT/EMB FOR VISA INTERVIEW. HIS AMERICAN PPT

WAS RETURNED TO-HIM. US EMB • NOSCOW STATED TWENTY MONTHS

OF REALITIES OF LIFE IN SOVIET UNION HAD CLEARLY HAD MATURING

EFFECT ON OSWALD•

SAYING ODACID HAD DETERMINZD OSWALD IS STIL

HAD GIVEN APPROVAL FOR THEIR TRAVEL

BOTH HE AND HIS SOVIET WIFE HAVE EXIT MA

TO USA.

4. STATION SHOULD PASS

ODOATH,

TRE ARE THREE ORCINATES

W.

(CONT PAGE: TWO)

CITIZEN AND

AND DEPT. STATE

R INFANT CHILD

NFO PARAS

INCOMING

0003034

PAGE

250 0₽

31!

COPY NO.

---

## Page 3

SISTR:

ICTION:

NFO•

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

DATE:

FILE:

CLASSIFICATION

DIG

DLJERRED

ROUTINE

PRIORITY

OPERATIONAL

IMMEDIATE

INITIALS

INITIALS

INFO

INCOMING NUMSER

го

PAGE TWO DIR 74830-IN 5945

-5. REF"AND-POSSIBLE IDENTIFICA

ODOA

OF OSWALD.

CITE

NUMAR

NG DISSEMINATED

PLS KEEP

POSIVE IEFIFICATION

TEND - OF

REPRODUCTION PROWBIED

11/1602Z

REPRODUCTION.

0003035

PAGE

COPY NO.

251

of

---

