104-10186-10069)

rere

countay Cuba.

‘SUBJECT

DATE OF
NFO.

bite Aca Beeomber 1365 i

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

‘Tots material soo taine information aecting the Rationel Teteaie O1'Gé Cates State witnia the meaning of tbe Eapionsge Laws, Tie
1 UBC Gece TAO and TA Ue transmimtca of feroistion of whieh is aay manner to 2 unsvtborised person

if ssc

RET
.NO FOREIGN DISSEM

Oreste VARELA (alias “Odon")

1964
Washington, D. C.

REPORT NO.
DATE O1STR.
NO. PAGES
REFERENCES,

FIELD REPORT NO,

te protibited by few.

CS CI-316/00630-63
10 February 19€5

5 eer

CSCI-316/00252-64
21 July 1964

Tis 15 UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE OLADINGS ARE OLFINITIVE APPRAISAL OF CONTENT (5 TENTATIVE,

source, A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence
Service until April 1964. fae

Headquarters Comments

‘The following report is one of a series containing personality.
information provided by the source and includes supplemental
information from the records of this Agency.

It ig requested that the addressees take no action on any of
the individuals mentioned in‘the personality ihe stand wibhout

first checking with this Agency.

1. Oreste VARELA, alias "Odon,” is the Argentine desk officer
in the Direccion General de Inteligencia (General Directorate of
VARELA

4g a captain in the Cuban army and was stationed in Habana and

Intelligence - DGI), He was a former radio announcer,

the
2.

Sierra Maestra,.

VARELA, a Caucasian, was born about 1930, is five feet
eight inches tall, weighs 150 pounds, and has short, brown hair.1

quarters Comments

Head

Aside from the information forwarded in the above referenced

LL
report, this Agency has no additional identifiable information.
on VARELA,

SECRET _—
NO FOREIGN DISSEM tet
: parses
Tow, ‘kuny_ st navy 7 Tess Bex Toe T¥sI

vers WH/SA 8 (1),

WE 1 (2), cr 4, RIDI

pre

ror 404

19-5-1

