104-10096-10318

re V4 April 1978

@
RRERKEWRERBEX :
i eax |, : Awe Gre & pasewee probasl, |
Ne We Peres best qual: ied & }
AINLLER S apan ee ene | tuhga af
et cee wher weet 4 in Menten
lone Seaton. Sho was. .thepge
aut Who tine, ancl Fev ewee(
aN} Eres aN chop h laste year.
: Te coucutesien Ga Powts ; i
= 2 ema hon invetligenn is

Vakeves dug’ -

FROM: S.D. Breckinridge Su bseguenk bolsphasic \mgony

re Miss GoedpaSevie  cleveloprt Maat
RETURN TO: ie (oper the Menta a Tab
iG DB weseing ctialt

(oe



CUPADEMTIAL 7,

14 April 1978
MEMORANDUM FOR: Inspector General

SUBJECT : Anne Goodpasture's Appearance Before HSCA

1. I met with Anne Goodpasture and others this morning.
She spent all day yesterday, without lunch, testifying before
Congressman Dodd (and others from time to time), of the HSCA.
She does not want to write anything about it, having questions
about the Agency's ability and willingness to handle such a
paper appropriately; based on her experience, detailed below,
I agree with both her decision and her reasons.

2. She was called for the stated purpose of “an interview."
In fact, she was interviewed Wednesday afternoon by Michael
Goldsmith who went over in very general terms some of the subject
matter he intended to cover. When it became apparent she was to
testify before the Committee, she raised the question of mis-
representation as to why she was here, accusing them of “bad
faith." She learned in the course of her exchanges that the
rules of the Committee specify that a witness should have a
week in which to prepare; a rule that the Committee seemed to
be under no compulsion to observe.

3. By way of preliminary summary, it seems that she was
subjected to what we might call hostile interrogation. It is her
opinion that the questioning was designed for what she describes
as "entrapment." She feels the thrust of the questioning did not
have so much to do with the facts relating to Oswald, per se, but
how the station was organized and functioned. On this point she
was informed that one of the purposes of the Committee is the
evaluation of the individual employees and the Agency as a whole,
which seems to have been the main thrust of the questioning.

4. To her surprise there appeared to be a number of un-
sanitized, raw documents in the possession of each of those present,
having been reproduced in multiple copies. She recalls the follow-
ing having copies: one for each Congressman, one for the clerk,
one for the counsel (Goldsmith), a copy for her and apparently
some others. She observes that Mr. Blakey was not present but
Representatives Sawyer and Preyer were there for some of what
happened. Representative Dodd conducted much of the questioning.

conrigentia



—_ ‘’ CONFIDENTIAL = ©

- 5. She stated that there was an unganitized rough draft
paper that she-had typed out early in her work for us a year
ago. We had asked to have a general description of how Mexico
Station functioned to help our overall understanding, and she »
had written this in a sort of free form way. She says that
this eight-page draft was clearly rough, it had to contain
errors Qubich she says is borne.out by the research that she
did later). Also reproduced in full and unsanitized fashion
for each of those present was Tab PF of the 1977 report of the
Special Task Force; this ts a subject of :a memorandum written
by me on 11 April 1978, a copy of which ts attached.

6. Attempts were made to take specific items of information
out of context and build for them a significance they did not have,
and to force her to make unqualified statements concerning them.
When she declined ta give specific testimony on various specific
points on what happened tn 1963, her interrogators challenged
her both directly and by innuendo; as an example, they wanted to
know the exact date on which; in Mexico City, she wrote a comment
on an undated Washington Post newspaper story. They tried to
impute to her supervisory responsibilities over a number of officers
in the Mexico Station at the time; she had none and they tried to
argue with her flat statement of fact. They tried to get her to
testify as to the competence and "conscientious" work of the COS,
using papers they questioned as a basis for attacking his ability.
They were incapable or unwilling to understand or accept the fact
that a station worked in a reasonable fashion that was contrary
to some undisclosed pattern that they seemed to have formulated
for themselves.

7. She is certain that, tom keen Bob Shaw and{Herb ffanel1
will be called to testify. Sie expresséd.a desire to talk with t
and I urged her not to do so; although a reasonable thing to do
under ordinary circumstances, in the face of a hostile inquiry of
dubious purpose, such a contact would be twisted and presented as
a form of collusion, and I felt that her discussion with them under
these circumstances should not take place. However, I do believe
the Office of General Counsel should be instructed to advise wit-
nesses how to conduct themselves under such circumstances in terms
of their legal rights; there apparently were a number of tense
moments during her testimony requiring her to resist being cowed
by the bullying tactics of counsel and Mr. Dodd. At the end of
the day Mr. Dodd, on reflection, apologized to her for his question-
able conduct.

8. It seems to me that there is a requirement for a formal
review, outside the Office of the Legislative Counsel, as to how
this Agency, itself, is abiding by the established ground rules

-2-

NTIAL Yop

Ane,



‘* CONEBENHAL =

for what it delivers to HSCA. In view of the multiple copies
made of material containing still-sensitive Sources and methods,
there is need for formal representation to Mr. Blakey at a level

=PpD Rog?
S. D. Breckinridge

Attachment:
As Stated

