# 104-10172-10242

## Page 1

I104-10172-10242

our.

na m

DISPATCH

YENT SACALE

CHIEF OF STATION

GERMaNY

CHIEF.

MUNICH LIÁI SON

SaSE

COB, 00%.

- COB, FRÄNKFURI

# Brt19,200)

US• J408:538

¿B0 C04J 10S6.319

RYBAT UPHILLLCIMPROVE/AILADLE

OlUPHILL CONSMENTS ON AELADLE

A.

MUNI

6508

B.

BONN

4758

C.

EGOA 20103

WE FIND THE OPINIONS REPORTED IN REFS

A BIT DISTURBING.

WHILE WE DO NOT SUGGEST A POINTEO AND DETAILIO

IT IS REQUESTED THAT ANY FUTURE EXPRESSIONS OF

COUNTERED WITH A REITERATION OF OUR PREVIOUS STATE-

MENTS, NAMELY-

A.

AELADLE ADMITTEDLY HAD LITTLE INFO ON XGB OPS IN

GERMANY INASMUCH AS HE WAS NEVER DIRECTLY ASSOCIATED

WITH KGB GERMAN OPS. THIS POINT WAS MADE GLEAR FROM

THE START•

B. AELADLE PROVIDED A WEALTH OF INFO ON MATTERS CONCERNING

OTHER AREAS KHICH HAS CHECKED OUT WITH INFO AVAILABLE

FROM OTHER SOURCES.

THIS INCLUDED INFO ON THE VASSAL

WHILE HE DO NOT WISH TO CITE STATISTICS OR

FOR OBVIOUS SECURITY AND POLITICAL

REASONS. IT IS

C. THAT HE WAS A HANDLING PROBLEM WAS MADE CLEAR FROM

THE BEGINNING.

DISTRIBUTION

BY TAPE

2-COS

2-ML8

2-GONN

2 -FOB

BY POUCH

I-COS

//CONTINUED//

Entasta 099 H021911.

CROSS REFERENCI TO

DISPATON SORRY AND LASER

EGON - 3763

MAN HATIN

RYBAT/SECRET

IT-RI

I - DC/CI

1 - 6/SR/

1-C/EE

1-EE/G/IS

2 - EE/G/CE

1-C/WE

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

DATE

5 JULY 63 TOR-

D0S FRE PUNRER

62476-496/3

*+731

ExT

3

CCORDIVATNS

1764f8 5 49401

SACE

G/SR

AC/EE

5/p0

53

DISPATCH

---

## Page 2

14-00000

CONTINUATON OF

RYBAT/SECRET

EGOTi - 3763 PAGE

THE GERMANS WERE TOLO AT THE OUTSET THAT HE INSISTEO

ON KEEPING COPIES OF THE TRANSCRIPTS.

UNOSASICNES ACE FROL CAN BAS ME THE THA SE ASTH THE

DISPATCHED AGENT. WE STATED THAT THIS WAS CONSIDERLO EXTREMELY

UNLIXELY IN VIEW OF THE INFO ME HAD PROVIDED.

HOT HAVE NEEDED TO PAY SUCH A MIGH PRICE IN COMPROMISED AGENTS

AND OPERATIONS IF THEY WANTED TO FEED US A PHONY DEFECTOR.

ALSO MADE THE UNSUBTLE SUGGESTION THAT THE KGB UIDN'T NEED TO SEND

US AN AELADLE TO GET INFO ONCUPHILL JINTERNAL SECURITY PROBLEMS.

WE REALIZE THAT THE ABOVE IS NOT SUFFICIENT AMMUNITION

TO PERSUADE THE DOUBTING THOMASES TO CHANGE THEIR VIEWS.

THE APPROPRIATE OPENING YOU HIGHT WISH TO POINT OUT TOCUTILITY

OR ALIAS FLEMING THAT THEY ARE IN FACT PERPETUATING THE KGB/

DISINFORMATION'S OWN LINE ON AELADLE.

FINALLY, WE WONDER IF THERE IS ANY CONNECTION BETWEEN

BEEN RECEIVED FROM PARIS. IT WOULD BE VERY INTERESTING TO KNON

AND SOME SIMILAR RUMBLINGS WHICH HAVE

IF UPHILL JAND THE FRENCH

HAVE BEEN GETTING TOGETHER ON THE ALADLE

MATERIAL. VIPLS REPORT ANYTHING. THAT COMES TO YOUR ATTENTION ON THIS

PETER A. RAMOS

5/p0

530

USE PREVIOUS COITION.

CLSBIPICATION

RYBAT/SECRET

FABINO.

CONTIMURO

---

