# 104-10226-10087

## Page 1

104-10226-10087

CIAISUICATION

TRANSMITTAL

OF

IDCS INFORMATION REPORT

0alD.

Uait

Trw/intel/ieprts

d8.

3547

ĐAT$

77 August 1962

COMPIAMATION COPHA

TFW 12

INSORMATION COMIS

CI/OPS , CI/IC, FI, FL/D. FI/INT &,

WE 4,

BOUTEIO

DATA OSTAIBUICO

27 August 1962

DI S S& MIMATOP

TEWEL

2 TIW/PROP-RA J

TrW/Int

TFW/SI

TFW/R

2

TFW WA'E

TFW/CL

2

TEW/PM

1/ WI/PACY 2

#VALUAIAON

BEQUESIAD

HIAT

AHAAT

MANDLING INSTRUCTIONS

WH/R

WE/3

WE/R

09/8SD/Bntman

HAVY

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

855

SECRET

(Whon Ositodl la)

Au: 78 1344.82

TDCS -3/520,846. ..=1L66.

2, CA 2, CA/PRG, 0S, WH 8,

PISCHOENCA

ROUTUA

BA3BO ON (11d. Rgel- Prenf)

WAVE-7632 (IN-11670)

WAVE-7114 (IN-46173)

UFG-1396

UNION (UNION-11)

bnisoni &

Hharpe

UK

DD/P INTERNAL USE ONLY

AUINENTICATINO OFFICER

COORDINATIMO OFFICER( S)

w.s.Commpton

WE/3/RE (in draft)

CLASSHICATION

SECRET

(Whon Piliod in)

begretes

---

## Page 2

14-00000

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPURT TELEGRAM

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGINEY

COUNTRY

SUBJICT

DATI OB

INFO.

PLACE &

• DATE ACQ.

APPRAISAL

SOURCE

CLASSIFICATION DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

S-E-C-R-E-I/NO FOREIGN DISSEM

CUBA

PLANNED UPRISING BY OPPOSITION

GROUPS IN CUBA

ASPORT NO. TDCS -3/520,846.

DATE DISTA 27 AUGUST 1962

PRECIDENCE

ROUTINE

AUGUST 1962

PRANCE, PARIS (25 AUGUST 1962)

REFERENCES

H1-ACQ-01258

KD-W-2107

FIELD REPORT NO.

IN -46173

-11670

1. MEMBERS OF THE UNIDAD REVOLUCIONARIAL

(UR) REPORTED TO THE

FRENCH EMBASSY IN HABANA THAT ON 10 AUGUST THEY WERE INVITED TO ATTEND

A MEETING ON 14 AUGUST ORGANIZED BY THE DIRECTORIO REVOLUCIONARIO

ESTUDIA TIL (DRE) AND THE MOVIMIENTO REVOLUCIONARIO DEL PUEBLO

(MRP). THE PURPOSE OF THE MEETING WAS FOR THE THREE GROUPS TO PLAN A

STAGE OF ACTIVE WARFARE, THE UR WAS ADVISED BY THE FRENCH ENBASSY

NOT TO PARTICIPATE, BUT THE UR COULD NUS CONVINCE THE DRE AND THE

MRP TO REVERSE THEIR DECISION FOR AN UPRISING SCHEDULED FOR THE LAST

DAYS OF AUGUST, WHICH WOULD RESULT IN A GENERAL UPRISING OF ALL

INTERNAL RESISTANCE GROUPS.

2. FISLD DISSEM: CINCLANT, CINCARIB

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

Bites to me

SE-C-R-E-T/ NO FOREIGN DISSEM

REPCLICLANT

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

---

## Page 3

14-00000

CASSETICATION - DISSEMIMATION CONTEOUS

S-E-C-R-E-T/NO FOREIGN DISSEM

TOCS - 3/520,846

11670

47173

PAON

2

3.

HEADQUARTERS COMMENT: AXERICAN EMBASSY, PARIS, TELSGRAM

10. 984, DATED 26 AUGUST 1962, REPORTED INFORNATION FROM THE FRENCH

AXEASSADOR IN HABANA ON THIS AGREEMENT FOR A GENERAL UPRISING

DERING THE LAST DAYS OF AUGUST.

END OF MESSAGE

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION COPY FOLI

.8-E-C-R-E-T/NO FOREIGN DISSEM

---

