i04-10162-10195)
saad .

QUESTIONNAIRE"
PART If = OPERATIONAL INFORMATION

‘GNSTaUCTIOWE FO CAME OFFICER

Hoc JMOLCATE HOS, OER, OHERE, env. AND OY UHOM SUBSICT was FIST COMTACTCO OW DEVELOPED.

In Nov. 59 subj. vas in hiding in Habana after disaffection vith Castro gov.

and desired to defect. Subj. brought into contact with Co.D. Morales (trae)

quently exfiltrate to
for TOGA Sousa.

a=, WADTCATE Owe WE jET COULD OC TURNED OVEH QUICALY AND tm A SECURE WANNER FO auY RESPORSIOLE CASE OFFICES FOR
Wanoeine. 07 ATE VO mos.

Turnover in a cecure manner to any responsible CIA representative vould pose no
robles vbstscerer. Subject‘s Icyalty toverd CIA hee,crer a period of years,
become institutionalized and he easily adapts to new case officers.

P- LIST ote Case GeFICERS ono wave WaNOLED SUBJECT OR NOW ad GNGUS OM WAT KWOUR, GIVE NaW{S BY OrtGY TWiY wave
stew enor.

Mr. David Morales ag “Dr. Gonzelet”

We. Hovard Hunt as "Eduardo" 07

Mr. Gerald Droller as{*Prank Bender")and mmepous pther CIA representative
involved in JMATE who used assumed names, but some of whom are known to him by
their true identity. :

TRE Se a PNT eT ere oa a Preemie it i nen


SECRE
sevice ty 2

tester

Hie motivation, while not ideologically fixed, steus sssentialiy from a desire
to overthrov the Castro regime, to treak the Soviet stronsezold on Cuba, and to
install a regime in vhich be will be permitt:4 to play a iey, if not the key role.

DLCATe meat CONTADL, IF anv, CMISTS ONCH THE SUBJECT. (If oy control. er #0 Fi vo bach of weal contead
aan)

Subject views his asaociation with CIA as indispensable in terms of enabling
him to bring ebout decisive changes in the Cten situation. Me therefore considers
his mission indissolubly tied up with CIA, viich in turn affords us a strong element
of control over his ectivities

Te Tt cores

COvEm USED BO EIBILET AAO CASE OFF NCER TO TOET® MEETINGS
Subject has no cover, but in travelling to the location where metings take
place generally uses an assumed name. The case officer represents CIA and operates

else ide

SOaTNINE WIE TWPTewATION AND IW TINTACTINS whP POP SRUIWTES

wens we (4011 wart) ele corbane)e

TMTECLUSERCE CCUMECTIONS ANC TRAINING
rate UNTEAFECOCE SEANCES TOS

AESNT ConeECTION @LIe awe

Te EnPUAIS SURES an den P aera

SUCH COMNECT Ce TS aQae :

The eole connection we know about has been with CIA Records do not reflect
eny prior association with the Cuban IA, nor bas subject ever been charged with
such an association.

SHEETS PRESENT UNFELLICANCE ACTIWETIES.

cist ome TUNE ¢hgemta, ve

In the context of the “AXWORID” project, Subject's current association is

‘mown to Kr. Rafael Quintero and DrwAsar Baro. Ho one else has been told, if
we are to believe Subject.

Be EAPEAWW Baw TmatMiwe BUOAECT WAS wad ON CUED CESTIME OPEGRTT IMS.

Under auspices of "AMWORLD", Saject vas trained in the use of
pad. He undervent extensive paremilitary and intelligence training

COLLABORATION @ZTEATIAL

ToaneT eoveD OC wos Cintiy 1) COLLABORATE, OFfa GCCAUSE GF wid 1OOLOGN cw Pelt
es. LeU :
Posaibly Spain or France. His natural proclivities are Catholic and
euthoritarian. If given any choice, be would eschev association with leftist
regines or vith oppressive dictorships. In the last resort, he will take help

without strings where it is offered.

2
SECRET

eeerserreneet


ate SECRET
FtRaT ick Use - cowecr
To BusstCT was #tfe GEES Ge TomrartED wa oet. VODIeATe ACT
wavton we was #ueussntd.

SMATE, His responsibilities lay in the action, not the collection field. He
has purveyed on occasion political intelligence, but strictly es a by-product.

vw outa mE On) UntOChD Ouy fot “Pk OF enteon

Tove wow aud Fou @uow SUBJECT OBTAINS IFUAUATION.

E.g. from high-level contacts im various Latin Amrican countries.

Te has been permitted to infer that it ie passed to the policy-making components
of the U.S. Goverment. zd

{
|" TABICATE OWAT CAE OCfw FOLD SOIECT AS TO THE ELSDON OF fe/OewATIOW me Femetees.

Ai SOBUIET™G PaaPONED FF GR CH TYPE USE OF DUTECS.

Be will be used as the principal in "AMMORID", @ peraxilitary progren, vesting
hin with important and independent responsibilities.

OT TEVat RRVECTE POOPOSED @9-Pw TYPE USC OF DUTIES.

Hy ‘Ba wilt de in charge of a Cuban underground arganizaticc, managing and direct:
| Ate polities. and parmailitery effectires. : sd

PROPOSED LUAlsce Ce CERATICNM ACTIVITY
ts Devan SuasCt-s PeorOMO QuAiagy rhe gusta! cf Getsatecodl WHE
a. ERE SORIEET VE an OFFLCNEL wEUOCR OF A FERCLON CoutmeENT:

Mot applicable

©. meme SyesCeT 45 am OFFTEFAL mEMBCE OF Me DEVORE AGtuCrT

ot appliceble

AGESCY BCLATIONSHIP vite SUMJECT

a. cehuave watya SF AGINCY BCUATSONENID @ITH SUBJECH: 1.0. TQHeEg, OFFOSITE Wemeds BCmAEeaTION, BF urs ACERT
Peasowece anoed Te duastet.

Subject has been co-opted in performing duties outlined im Section I. His
Frogren_is \dized. He knows Messrs. Dessond Fitegerald,| (chier
(SA), Rawl Hernandez (SAS), Benry Be .

3
SECRET

4
|
| oa



i SECRET
QUALIFICATIONS F08 LTHE® OPCRATICAS

eesreerrare rrr earrarrmnrars

He is a political analyst an4 propagandist of notable talent. Be can organize
api direct a paramilitary operation, given elequate technical support.

Comte TS,

+ 16-44 4S eerwasee to ay suasCE & BLGULAR SMany, IODICRIE T
Cowon ities, sussiey on oats ettuon, t octas

In the context of the “AMWORLD" subsidy, his living expenses are taken care of.

FO Of wane tN EnCuaeee

fe ans PammisCs. OTMEROISE BOT COVERED HEALER, wade T Tt, (kemole camestwonta vega
sett eens D meat DE TD suests T. ¢kemal, veaardene

transcending the objectives of AMWORLD Lave been made. Should
C.I.A. would stand committed to facilitate

POA, mate expired, had been obtained. ALL appropriate checke vere performed.

DIEATE OFWEO swoEATIGATIVE WEASGAES TAcEw VO CEPtNY GiCU=APaiCaL leFOuweTIow FomMrEUED OF BobtGTS

He is prominent in the exile comity and there is no shortage of data ebout
hie past. He vas given one or more ICFLUTTER tests.

 ANDIEATE euETwEN ON WOT PROVISIOUM OPERATIONAL GVPEONAL 08 ©
Fag fon cet use was ocee enerisusie conaten
es

4
js EVALUATE SUGIECT-g CHAMACTER. GELIABILI IW aND SECURITY, CATING EVIDENCE mEME POTSINES

Strongvilled, adapteble, prepossessing, vain but not excessively 60,
extroverted, Tyeleally’ brave, undaunted by s etbacks and adversity, tenacious, delibefate
chariematic, exbitious, ruthlessly necessary, badly organized, prone to dabble in
abstract thought intellectually, shallow but definite grovth potential, fanatic streak
single-minded, task oriented, basic impulses decent and honorable.

Laie aay Sofuation O80 wand OEE tNNOLHED oH saivaren fae
fort eationsa SECURITY v1 nt Eee ee eenee eee

His parents are in Cuba. Hie father is an ex-commmist who reputedly svung
to other extrem:. Some claim be himeelf vas in his younger days @ commmnist.

SUBJECT-S PLASONML WADITS

Goderate ‘tasted tho can subordinate his natural urges to what he
considers his overriding duties. Appears to stay clear of fenale entanglements.

ry
‘ SECRET

—
eet


SECRET
cn AACATIONAL te TEFESTS
+ UNDUCOTE Suesect™s @DOBIES CO VWTEMESY O6 BP08TS, wuSiC. t7C-

Poetry, reading

THLE GHBOACTENIS TICS. ARE BUCH AS ME COULD C058 a5 & waTIDE
oo

teDecatt owt twee SuesCT Ss Cewcuace
OF a Counter OF AEEION OTate Taay HF

Only Spaniah of the Cuban variety. Getas fluency in spoken English, but stil
hbas trouble in understerding.

t+ INBECAtE out Tate tercowatiay 16 ORG PARTS © aAD HT OAS OBTatMED er RESLARCH, CLANSESTINE ASSESEMIAT. BiCeae
COUR SPONDIACE On OTnte wLans.

All combined.

On OF SUDSECT 15 EFFECTED, PLEASE Caraaum, (Aloe

(6 GYWER Team aoyTiNE ACTHCw 4S ALOVIRED, IF ond enEW Haw
ave pare. ell

Subject's termination vould involve @ major policy decision on a high level
of the U.S. Govermmet-.. :

EHERCENCY COR DITIONS RECCUTAST ARRANGEMENTS
RECOCAITION StoxaLs. MERE COVLD CONTACT AC WADE! wUAT BORA FIDES COLD FedtvIBuAL

Sectiog xv

crrerrerrcrray
waging Comtacy user

Subject can correspond vith C.I.A in cote (one-time pad). He will be provided
4 redio link end bas been given two sterile phone mmbers (one attended 24 hours),
He bes a letter base in Hiami and a P.0, Bex address at vhich to contact C.I.d.
Be vas given e-torn banknote for eaergency purposes.

[MUSCELLAMEDUS OPERATIONAL CATA AND ROURKS

