# 104-10211-10326

## Page 1

104-10211-10326

-..

tO

DISPATCH

Calei o1 Station, Mexico City

MOSESSING: FION

MARCED FOR MOCTINE

DRELY QUALITIED CESA

CHA ROX MIDDUNG

Chef, VT Div181om

LIEVOY. 8

ACTION RIQUIRED - REFERENCES

As a result of the recent revien done of the LIftAT

and LinvoY trogoct, it cane to Beadguarters attention that

"VOls, tho van bolloved to have been terminated, vas still

covared by the LIfEVOY Project.

According to IOll14876, LITHYOY-& was the caune of

LIVOY-& wE described an a

"ac" nationalist to disapproved of ODTORy's abariug of the

LIEVOT take.

3. Headquarters now notes that LILiVOY 8'a clearance hau

rever been cascelled and there in no Agent Service Record or

teruination report 1n his 21l0.

LIAIUl& was Included in the

LIvOY Project reneval sequent for the 1961/62 project yeus, but

not for the 1862,63 your.

The field project renoval regueat for

the 1969/61 jess Included in agals.

& It la requested that the Station infor Headquarters of

the present status of LILVOIB (201»113106).

If he has been

serrated, Diese forward an gent sorvice decord.

11 he 1a

6t111 being unod, pleano provide a current analysla of hia rolla

Milty and comments on any recurity probelms present in light of

his actiona and roputation 1a 1960.

ED C DISPATCH

Dirtritation:

001-

COB, Mesico CItY

31 octos

CROSS REFERINCE TO

DISPATCH ADD AND MANDER.

1016 12021

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

DATE

13. Detobar 100

08 FILE TOURISEI

201118108

ORIGINAYING

---

