246 120-3 Use Previour Editions
WoL
rom (Paris } ‘5-4 -
ACTION. “wa/sa 8

NO oor, avop, 00 4, 00/n 2, ca 2% cafes, caferor, cafo ¥, crfors, ci/se 2
Ftp eifo, rifint, tw, we 6 Vi

.

an Aa Arninoh

‘nofes 2, aofue

BECRET Bigger OCT 1 15422 64 IN 84957

DIR CITE (PARI) 6645 : a ae
a: ioe ves Si iitieanrine
. [Sroara: STOCKWOOD FROM AMWHIP ONE FROM (UNBNAFU 19. NO SOURCE LINE
Ve FOR AMWHIP ONE AVAILABLE, HOS CHECK BEFORE DISSEM.) 2 ie

FILED: $115@6Z

REPORT CLASS: SECRET NO FOREIGN DISSEM

Cora} Vh321

COUNTRY: CUBA

SUBJECT: CUBAN TRADE ACTIVITIES AND PERSONALITIES

001; SEPTEMBER 1964

PADA: FRANCE, PARIS (29 SEPTEMBER 1964)

APPR: 3

SOURCE; SPANISH SPEAKING BUSINESSMAN (C) WHO HAS WORKED CLOSELY °

TW comMint:

NO DISSEMINATION OF THE ATTACHED
‘TD PORTION OF THIS CACLE HAS BEEN
MADE OUTSIDE THE ASENCY PENDING
RELEASE BY THE ACTION UNIT.

|

Copy te”



: : i pace 2 IN 84957 : i
TAL DEALS,

WITH CUBAN AMBASSADOR CARRILLO ON CONFIDENTIAL COMMERC
FROM CARRILLO, it ae

COMMENT, :
H
T
: f ; Ea =| wa
i i
el | i i Trourne T_T Pmicaity,
na sani fee ASED ON
DATE DISTRIBUTED.

RELEASING 1 WO:



s E Cc R ET : : oe eunraas ferreucence AGENCY e
: Intelligence Information Cable

COUNTRY,

OATE OF

PLACE, : font
BATE ACG, nee wm 84957
SOURCE ‘ : FIELD REPORT NO,

AND
APPRAISAL

1, RAUL ROA KOURI, SON OF THE CUBAN FOREIGN MINISTER, WILL HEAD
THE CUBAN WESTERN EUROPEAN TRADE OFFICE WHICH IS TO SE ESTASLISHEO
IN PARIS, ROA AND TWO OTHER CUSANS WENT TO FINLAND FROM PARIS CN
29 SEPTEMBER TO CONCLUDE A TRADE DEAL,

2. ALBERTO MORA BECEIRA WAS DISMISSED AS MINISTER CF FCREIGN
COMMERCE ONLY BECAUSE HE WAS INEFFECTUAL AND STUPID, HE NOW WORKS
AS A LABORER IN THE MATAHAMSRE MINES... é
3. REGINO SOTI, DISMISSED AS MINISTER CF PLANNING, IS NOw EMPLOYED
TH!

Fr ———UC§“"C_——rcLtt_

HE NESTLE PLANT IN SANT:AGO CE CUSA,
4. 3S LIGHT LOCOMSTIVES PROOUSED SY THE FRENCH FIRM SRISSONNEAY

‘True maversal coatsing Inomeng s€ecting be Mationsl Defvass of the Casted lates withia the menaing af the Ragienare Lave THe
He UBC. Bove TA) and TH the

SECRET

Darl nd bal AMAT/ACH RAYE Au KS BICEIE Maa WD UA OC OnE ekE can 00

AT

Sem EERE eer —eneea nny teee


#2 i
im
RR.
zm
gi
q
i
i
f
F
H
@

AND LOTZ WILL BE SHIPPED FROM FRANCE IN NOVEMSER IN TIME TO ARRIVE
IN CUBA IN DECEMSER FOR USE IN THE SUGAR HARVEST. IN ADDITION 58

HEAVY LOCOMOTIVES WILL BE SHIPPED TO CUBA 8Y THE SOVIET UNION IN ;
"TIME FOR THE HARVEST. A
5. FIELD DISSEM: STATE

‘Semmes # screens eaanay teat! wae? __#,
.

eee

| SECRET

2 TE ORT SOREN OCI ORE RNC ET CSET
eRe te oe reer 3
