ro4-0209-10446 i St

Posester“cssanraer

S.C.ATTACHMENT Fy TO

ts amen UFGA-26075
ed
: June 8, 1964
: i Dre Antonio f’aceo
PeOe Box 1608
Mlund, Florida 33201
: Doar Dre Lacoos : i me
8 ee eee

Previous. to. hig dcming hore, counselor talked to the Council for the
~ Dlind ‘as.there waa nothing we could do for him ond actually it was
contrary to‘our'rogulations to accept him since the-modical report
‘Andioatod’ that ‘he was industrially blinds Tho Council) for. tho Blind
otated. that If ho gould. ajeak English they would atterpt to work with
himy but, Of course, with his glauccca, it would be difficult for hin

to otudye
At ‘the ond ‘of the iia "iain that’ bocauoe “ef hie
conoral debilitated condition; ne jot actually wish to got into ony
i training: program-or actuslly get into any work. situation do hovhed just
about onvugh otrerigh to oft up. Cf courso, glaicora ia pretty generally.
‘Gonaidered tobe progressive ‘in nature and overything conaornod and
_ -Bentionod above ‘lesves. this counselor with the irpression thet this

individual will be a Liability on sone one for the root of hin life and
As not exployables

Therefore, of course, he ie not boing acooptod into thie rehabilitation
procrans It nould be thia counsélor's rocozmoniation that if it wore
possible, that ho be drerred fron the. Ci progran nnd put on the Cuban
Refugee program. Thie reocerendation 1s in view of the fnot that this
will be a long indefinite welfare once and it io likely that the Cuban
Refugee gonorol program sill be going on long after the CRC 1e closed
and vory ‘likely, even’ shen the Cuban Refugee program 16 closed, thay
would continue on the State “elfaro. Gf course, I am in no position to

‘ know whether this is legally possible.
Sineerely yours,

Gorden De Smith, Counselor
Vocational Rehabilitation

(oi
oo irae Me Evans - Lop

