104-10186-10304 ‘ “

- ie

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

‘Tata quatertal contains Informatica amerting Une Metlonal Dafeass of the Cited States within the meaning of the Beplonage Lows, Tite
prontbties

UL UAC. Ceca TH and TWA the transmission of reveletion of which tn aay menber te an Loaulberteed perwoa te ty lew,

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

counTaY. Cuba WErORT NO, CSCI-3/7£2,060
SUBJECT Manuel VEGA Perez pare oisTR «= «29 June 1964 .
\ NO. PAGES: 2
: ; cae
DATE OF =1964
INFO. =:

mace & Washington, D.C,

OATE ACQ. June_1964 FIELD REPORT NO.
‘THIS (S UNEVALUATED INFORMATION, SOURCE GMADINGS ARE DEVINITIVE APPRAISAL OF CONTENT ID TENTATIVE,

a SOURCE, A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban
Intelligence Service until April 1964.

Headquarters Comment. The following report is one of a

‘Series containing personality information provided by
the source and includes supplenental information from the

records of this Agency.

Manuel VEGA Perez, pseudonym “Marcos," is the intelligence
chief of the Direccion General de Inteligencia (DGI -
General Directorate of Intelligence) ‘in Mexiso. 302 Eg VEGA
replaced Alfredo MIRAEEL in this capacity.

Headquarters Comments.

1. A document dated 22 May 1962 from a fairly reliable
source identified Manuel VEGA Perez as the Diplomatic
Attache of the Cuban Embassy in Mexico and a forrer
teacher at the Cuban G-2 school. .

2. A fairly reliable source in a report dated 20 June
1962 said that (fnu) VEGA, aka "Marcos," is the
Press Attache of the Cuban Erbassy in Mexico City
and was formerly an instructor at the Cuban G-2 school,
Source said he believed VEGA to be the deputy chief of
the Cuban G-2 in Mexico.

8
4
4 SECRET
a
; NO FOREIGN DISSEM
eae ory “ARMY NAVY an SA TOE. Toer FBI 2
REP_CINCLANT CINCSO _# ENS

{ ome Field diemtburion tediconed by “at ~)

}NO PROJECT
(ayaus_- 1)

[Jix - 1525 ]



3.

oRCRDT
NO: FOREIGN DISSEN

item SIE CO
a fairly reliable source was debriefed on 17 June 1962 1
Source !

concerning G-2 training, instruction and students.
attended the school for seven weeks in late 1961. fle reported
the following information on (fnu). MARCOS, probably identical
with Matiucl VEGA Perez, aka. "Marcos," who was‘one of the

instructors:
(fnu) MARCOS was born in approximately 1927 in Luyane,
Habana. He is tall end has' a heavy build: droun hair, H

and eyes; a round, clean-shaven face; and walks stowly
and bends slightly forward as he walks. MARCOS, who isi
poorly educated, instructed classes in intelligence. He
is’ now Press Attache at the Cuban Kmbassy in Mexico City
And tg understood to be the deputy chief of G-2 in Mexico,

A.resident of Mexico who has reported reliable. information, for
about three years said, in a report dated 18 May 1963, that
Manuel VEGA is the head of Cuban intelligence at the Cuban

Embassy in Mexico City, |
Ci

In a report dated 22 June 1963 the following inforcation was
given on Manuel VEGA Pere:

Manvel VEGA Perez, the Diplomatic Attache at the Cuban
Embassy in Mexico City, was born in approxirately 1912.
He holds Cuban passport number D/167 and. arrived in
Mexico in April 1962, He is single and resides at the
Hotel Agnes, Saltillo 67, Mexico City. He is known to -
be chief of the Cuban G-2 in Mexico.

A 28 April 1964 report stated that Manuel VEGA Perez, third
secretary at the Cuban Embassy in Mexico City and a known

Cuban intelligence officer, returned. to Mexico on 16 April ' vary
T964 ‘to replace Rogelio RODRIGUEZ Lopez for an unspecified

period of tine, ar
: (res

SECRET ‘
NO FOREIGN DISSE ne.

