# 104-10102-10223

## Page 1

104-10102-1022

Ropert on Decontion and Recrul

24B: N82:00

singe around January 1900, Stacien Mexico has been involved in i: de e-!

recrultments of Cuban officials.

mostly from the Cuban

Embasty

5. Nailse

Ca 6y.

The mo? Important of these was Jose PARDO Lalada, who was so:

in erficial

and not fro: 'ne Embassy, but was next to Castro himself, the most jo. ile: juice

among tij Cio:: masces.

An unsuocessful "approach" Mas mado to bulain C: li02:

The utation currently has one peresation 6:

assy an!.:3 a veteran Station agent in close and Iriendly contrct wit

and''er imb::" official.

In audition, the Station 18 nom followin' in til nois.

11012-0und

JWOLP actions - included:

Besides Jose PARDO Llada, the abcve-mentioned defections, - 111 successiel

A. Manuel VILLARANA Martines, cuza Air Attache; Who

never

B. Jalne VAREIA Canosa, Cuban Navii Attache;

sebrinded

C. Julian ARIAS Prado, Cuban vie: consui: fiom Los Angeies;

- D. Antonio R. MONIANES Loredo, Cuira foreign service oifielal:

E. Gilda PORTELA Margolles de MONTANES, Cuban Consul

P. Roberte ROCA Rosillo

G. Pedro Lucas ROIQ Ortega, Cuhan commercial represtntative.

Segades, Estular head of the

In addition, the Stattor mide an unsuccessful "approach" to flie guLA

stuirits in cuba at that time.

of a friendly" talk between : ¿'a lon Co e Officer, a mutual folend 'o. CURElY snI

CUEETA when the last mentioner vas visising in Mexico, While CUBELA did not Fick

up the opportunity at that time, ie appa:ently did not report the lic loans to .l

superiors and the groundwork mij Have been laid for similar action 1: the hiture.

Three of the "recruitmenis" ¿ere of importance no LTTAIIlS-3 Plaiserl sile

original, LIERODE microphones.

LIOOZE -1

for a fried ar

LITANIL-Jwas for a nét Inconsider ole irraou or time actually l

I LITAINT-6 furnished little of value. The term

"recrultment" Tren been

placed in quotes to indicate that nons if these arents was ideal from his st apolne

al canarag except LMAls-3, wno, alenaugh low level, proved out in aire dul as:

he no longer works

ITALYS- developed in Embass

peration new handled by LITAINT-2 and I ITAMIL-Jkas been Instrumenial In serruitir

SECRET / KAPOK

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

• Do Not Reproduce

---

## Page 2

Oin, cilsrent "penetration."

22).

returned to cuba

In 1961, and although arranceronts had been made for him to repori ly S.

*'i©

channel has never been actlinted at his end, in spite of the fae: thai Ansevan-3

was seit in te cuba as a lega: traveler to ascertain why not. Appare:''.

LIOOZE-1 prefers not to run any ricks lnside of Cube itself.

Current S1tuatlon

With regard to the Station's present defection and recruitment activicles,

the Station has one

major value 1s that he 1s1

LITANIL-T a rather timid personality : hor?

juith the operational

advantages basically implied. He has little access to confidental intermalion

but is able to

There 1s prebably JIttle hope that LaThIl-7 will turn out to be another LITALIS 3.

The Station's best chance of setting warthwhile Information from A

In the near future seems to be fiswet-1, who Moris in the same

_Es iFSTOKE-1

11d formerly. While assessments of AMSTET-1 have not jet irdicated tini a proper

pitch can be.

made to him, he 1s for all practical purposes already Munloh! 1g much

Information of value to LIMASK-1, a veteran KUBARK agent who 18 in Intendie con"aet

with nim.

Current Station defection targets include the Cuban Ambassador nina?!: wha

has many times been reported to be susceptible, and Odon ALVAREZ de 2a Cani 2, an

mportant official of the CIC" in Cuba, who reportedly his sent vit mesares

v. R

that ha xishes te defect. The Station 18 now trying to set more Inioninüir i in

the latter case. •

IN 1965. irs

Faird

Artes in us.

alejatiinis.

titi

Ted 1999

SLURT / КАРGК

Aim

---

