# 104-10418-10243

## Page 1

104-10418-10243.

ch press generally favorable towards GARRISON interview; he

cared logical and in control of his facts.

Fact program

red on NTS, which

usually more moderate,

as well as fact

gram appears to have made deep impression unpon Dutch viewers

ch extremely damaging to US.

known whether OLTMANS originated idea of program or not.

HAGUE 3870 (IN 59064), 27 February 1968

---

## Page 2

13-00000

While at the United Nations in 1961, OLTMANS claimed. to be an

unattached and unsponsored UN correspondent.

He was socially

ostracized by the Dutch delegation and fellow Dutch newsmen at

the United Nations for openly pro-Indonesian public stand and

was not permanently accredited to the United Nations. Dutch

correspondents stated they have never seen one

story written by

OLTMANS in the obscure Dutch monthly he ostensible worked for,

nor could OLTMANS produce a single clipping to demonstrate his

journalistic activities.

Despite fact his material not printed

OLTMANS traveled extensively and those knowing his personal and

financial status did not believe he would have been able to pay

for these trips even if his stories were selling.

He was viewed

with disfavor in reputable Dutch

political and press circles for

his loose handling of the truth.

DIR 47769, 28.10.66

---

## Page 3

13-00000

!

22. February 1968

A one-hour exclusive interview with Jim GARRISON, New Orleans DA,

broadcast by Dutch television Foundation, at top

viewing time.

A calmaand composed GARRISON explained that President Kennedy mur-

Ireed because his concent of detent was detrimental to the mili

tary industiral complex"

• GARRISON repeated well-known thesis Kenned

victim of plot by CIA, who made common cause with the military-

industrial establishment, with vested interest in keeping cold war

going.

GARRISON also stated CIA committeed to Asian land war while

one of President's last orders was for troop reduction tehre.

predicted that the President who brings US to brink of peace will

suffer same fate

as Kennedy.

When queried

about the reason

for program, especaally made for a

European audience, GARRISON said the growing CI A influence on US

media made it impossible for him to be heard in his own country.

The interviewer, OTLMANS, charcaterized by former colleagues as

someone "more interested

in shady politics than in journalism.

During the traumatic New Guinea period OLTMANS acted as SUKARNO's

unotticial aid.

Comment:

The most damaging aspect of tis program is that GARRIOSN'

person and presentation was sufficiently credible to elicit rather

favorable comment in the TV reviews from well-informed newspapers

State Cable HAGUE 3981, 23.2.68 LUO

---

