{ Seieeisbanee

ioe] NE ieee ,
i Senate RETURNTO CIA. |
z if i: > : Background Use Only |
cE ’ a : : - Do Not Reproduce - |
\ ‘ uy :

sana see ya (cam aieviened

n : Merector
Feceral Sureau of Tnvegtipation
Attention: br. S.J. Pupich

FROM =: Deputy Mirsctor for sans
SWIFT: Kobia DOORS

1. Reference is race to sour pavorsocum dated
3Y veceabor 1933, at rev York, entitled “Justa i.-voluctoaaria
Cubase” (Cudaa Revolutiamary Junta) (JUv:)," your file
Bumber 103-114543, -obip ZOOHS was referred to thereia
ag offering Ais progerty 18 Jamiice for une by tue aoti-
Castro JURS. Ds a4

&. The [Fpectal trancal of the
has reported that tie eotation " = 2 Ge aE raaGE

dabry H:hl, ?-rtlanc, Jamaica~ we found ia the accroaa
boos of athrya BULAIS whos Rar blaiiaaiad wae ralced by
the Jamaican police.

3. Piles ef thie gency contain the tnforwation that
BOARIS ip a writer apc the wife of John WKAR, a Jamicen
Conmunist, 6be previow!; lived in the sane apartecsst a
busiding Sioneo NEL Percome; tie tunsa canrul, aad
was heac of the Fair .la7 for (ube camittee ip Jamaica.

4. le view ef the paycil.e ronsection brtvcao Subject
and fathrya MOURIS your soncurreace to roquestce to pace ez

the iaforna Bret MOORE to toe fipectal b
of tho es

3. Any advitiona) taforesyios cain; to thy atteetion
ef Ghie ‘gency a KOUAK wil! be reported upon receipt.

C8CI 2/781, 385 :
ad : .

m6) ide
Distribution: : 23 pril 1904
Orig. & 1 - dreeave
+ RE (103-2 -5/3) BASIC: UJEA 336
: - CILIA 9 april 1964
= €i7tes eh
~ sw/sa fer COT paosuct: [iu

teeta eiete)

