# 104-10121-10009

## Page 1

104-10121-10009

115-22001-M.

DATE

REQUEST FOR APPROVAL OF LIAISON

CONFIDENTIAL

CLASSIFICATION

6 FeD 63

TO

THROUGH:

Chief, Employee Activity Branch, PSD/os

The followin

contact is hereby

BILE " CIA EUPLOVEZE

reported

requested

to be errective on

One. time

cont laving basis?

EMPLOYEE

ЗАМЕ

NADE

ENT.

7355

EXT.

OFFICE

"CIC

OFFICE

NAME.

EXT..

OFFiCE

MATLACK

TITLE:

- INC: Menker

ORGANIZATION

Dorothe

NAME

EXT.

OFFICE

BUSINESS ADDRESS

Pentagon

NAME

EXT.

OFFICE

NAME

EXT:

OFFICE

PRONE

-Code 22: 8-75085

DESCRIPTION OF LIAISON. COMENTS, AND INOUN BIOGRAPHiCAL INFORMATION

Metlack vas formerly

the Aruy Member

on IDc and then becane DOD (not

DIA) Member; hovever, since 10 Septenber I962 she has been designated as the

Arily. Member on IDC.

Tae CDC (CIA Defector Coordinator) chairs the INC (laterageney Deleetor

Liaison will relate to matters dealing rita detectors, escapee

and refugees and will Include personal contacts and attendance at reetings

as appropriate

CLASSIFICATION OF MATTER TO BE DISCUSSED

• ITOP SECRET

SECRET

JUNCLASSIFI

DDP/CDC

chilli

lso

Dorothy yo

DRIED SIGNATUNE

FORE

10.S

7355

EIT»

Sept 1963 Sunteot's so advised.

SECURITY "APPROVAL

wooest to

B80. 243

Authorizate t

Sia 63 2

individuals as

зb2"

ClassiE,

sluding

Засія

disclosed tarc:*

ity for disse iwor

rence of ti

year frozi co

reguest should be usuar

D0S-1808

EDITIONS!

28 FEB 9958

Date i

CEONE PETITAT

TO. CUA

Baorground Use Onty®

Do Not Reproduce

o lor l'a'iss eontact beiween ta

Go.. Co. 224-600 Day. be

Tie concut

argite and

da, a written

B anor si Security:

Chiel, Personnel Security Division

---

