# 104-10117-10076

## Page 1

104-10117-10076

.

PERSONAL, HISTORY STATEMENT - (Appendix I)

Listed below are names of organizations identifed by the Attorney General, under his responsibility pursuant to

Brecutive Order 10150, dated 27 April 1953, to list the names of each foreign or domestic organization, association

movement, group or combination of persons which he designates as Totalltarian, Fascist, Communist, or subverstve

t as baying adopted or having shown a palley of advocating or approving the commission: Of acts al force or vio

ence to deny others their rights under the Constitution of the United: States, or as seeking to alter the form. o

government of the United States by uncontitutional means.

Each applicant or employee and spouse (1l ang) must review the fallowing llat of organisatlona for certification

purposes, and sign: on the last page.

Abraham Llncoln Brigade

Abraham. Ilnooln. Bchool, Chicago, Mlinois

Actlon. Committee ta: Free-Epain Now

Alahams. Peoples Iducational. Amociation (590 Communist Politi-

end Amociation)

Amarion Christian, Nationaliat. Party

Amerter: Committen fur: Buropent Warkerr Bellet (a00 Socialies

Warteen Farty)

Amerlenn Committee-for Protetion of Foreign fort

Amertcan Committee for Bpaniat. Freedo

Americnn Committen Due tha Bettlement of Jewa la Birablajan, Ine.

American Committee: for Dagonlav: Ballet. Due:

Amarionn Committee ta Bunrey, Inbor: Conditiona: in Iurope

Amerton-Counail: far & Demourtla:Oreece,. formerty known ne the

Greak Americm• Counell;: Creek Amurton: Committee for Wa

tonsi Unity

American: Counoll: on Boriet: Belations

American Crondan Congres

Amerton, Jewinh: Labner Council

Arnerton League Agninus War nad Fascian

American Lengue: thr Fenst and' Democracy

Amarten. National. Labor Hirty

Americnn Motion! Soctalist Longue

Amertenn Nationnl Bocialist Party

American Nationalist Party

Amarien. Pitriote, Inc

American Peace Crusade

America Fesce Mobillestion

Americna. Poles for Asnoe

Amertenn Bollsh. Labor Council

American. Pollah. Longue

American Rescue Enip Mileston (a project of the Unlod American

Spanish: Ald Committee)

Amerong-Russian Fraternal. Boclety

Amertean Bundan. Institute; New Torts, also known as the Amerl.

emn Rusian Institute for. Cultural Relations with the Boriet

Unlon

Americn Russian Intitute; Fblladelphis

American Russian Institute of. Ban Erancisco

American Bundan: Institute of Bouthern Callfornla, Los Angeles

American Blay. Congrass

American Women for Peace

American Touth Congreme

Americnn Youth for Democracy

Armenian Prograve League Of Americs

Assoctated Klans of Amertca

Amocintion of Cleoryla Hans

Amociation of. German Nattonnla (Ratchadeuteche Vereinigung)

Audand-Organtzation der NBDAP: Oversena Brunch of Has Party

Bnltimore Voramn

Benjamin Davis Freedom Committee

Binet Dingon Bootsty

FORM

18-01

3. 444d USE PRIVIOUS EDITIONS

I Boston. School fer Marxiat: Studien. Bortan, Mamanchusetts

Aridger-Bobertoon-Schraldt. Defense Committee

Bulgarias Amartonn: Proples Longue of the Unlted Bentes al

Callorals

Carpatto-Burian: People' Bociety

Central. Council of Amadonn. Women: of Croatian Desocal, alao

known, as. Central Comell Of: Amarton Crontian Women, No-

tomal: Council of. Grantian: Women:

Central Inpants: Amoriation. (Belkoku: Chan Mlyponjin: Kal)

Cantal: Japnnon Anontatton: Of Bouthern: California.

Contral: Organtation: of tha German-Ametcan Naconal Allianoe

(Detacho-Amartitaniache. Hinbeltafront)

Carranter: Preternal: Bostety

Chins. Welfare Appenl: Inc.

Chopin Cultural Center

Citirme Committen-for: Harry, Artagea

Chitrens Coralttes of the Lippes West Bide (New York City)

Ottems Committee to Pret Had Browder

Cideena: Emergency. Defenne Couterence

Oltirana Protectire Ltague

Chil: Ilberties Sponsoring Committee a Pittaburgh

Oivll Rights Congress and. te Amliated organieation Including:

Civll Righta. Congresa. for Ter

Veterans Agatul. Ducrmination. of: Civil: Right Congra of

Hew Tort

Civil Rights Congresa. for Terna (ese Ciril Eighte Congress)

Columbinas

Comite Coordinador Pro: Bepublien Fapnnola

Comite Fro Derschon. Clulles

(Bea: Puerto Bicus Comite Pro Libertades Cirlies)

Committee-for & Democratic Far Eastern Polley

Commatttee for Constitutional and Palliteal. Froedom

Committee. for: Natonalist Action

Committoe for Peros and Brotherbood Feetival in Philsdelphia

Committee for the Defense of the Pittaburgh. Bis

Committoo for: the Negro in the Arts

Committee for the Protection. of the Bill of Right

Committee for. World Touth; Friendhip and Cultural Archange

Committee to Aboliah: Discrimination In Maryland

(Bee. Congress Against. Dieerimination; Maryland Congrees

Against Discrimination; Provisional Cotnittee to Aboliah

Discrimination in the State of Maryland)

Committee. to Ald the Elghting Bouth

Committen. to Defend Marle Richardann

Committes to Defend the Bights and Freedom of Pittsburgh's

Poiltical Prisoners

Oommitses' to Uphold the: Bull of Bighta

Commonwenith College; Mena, Arkans

Communist Partyi. U. 8. A, Its subditiaions, subsidiaries, and

-1-

(4)

# #+28597: 7999-4

---

## Page 2

Communist Palitient Asociation, Ma subdiviatons, subaldiaries,

and anitates, treludies:

Matamn People's Iducational Amoclation

Florida Press and Education Lengue

Okinhown Lengue for Politieal Education

Propies Educational dod Press Amociation of Taxas

Vuryinla Lengue for People'a Iducation

ConTen Aginst Dictimination

(8en Committee to Abolish Discrimination ln Maryland)

Congrems of American Berolutionary Writers

Congres of American Women

Comes of the Unemployed

Connectleut Committee to Ald Vietime of the Bmith Act

Commetleut Bunte Touth Confereace

Council for Joba, Ballet and Housing

Ocumell far PAl-American Democracy

Council of Chroet Amerteans

Dounell on African Allairs

Croatin Benevolent Frateralty

Dal Nippon Butolna Kal (MUltary Virtue Bocloty of JApAn OF MAll-

tary Art Boclety of Japan)

Only Worker Press Club

Danielm Defense Committee

Dante Alighterl Boclety (between 1035 and 1940)

Dunnis Defense Committee

Detradt Touth Assembly

Inat Bay Pesce Committee

Kiminore Progressite League

Emergency Conference to Bave Bpanish Befugees (founding body

of the North American Spsalth Ald Committee)

#verybody's Oommittee to Outlaw War

Profilos of the Baltimore Buith Act Victle

Families of the Bmith Act Victims

Pedertion of Italian War Veterana In the V. 8. A, Ine. (Associa-

done Nuelonale Combattent! Italinal, Poderdone degll Btas

Onlt d'amerlen)

Finnish-American Mutual Ald Society

Ploridn Press and Educational Longue (ne Communist Polition)

Asociation)

Prederick Douglass Iducational Center

Freedom Btage, Inc.

Triends of the New Cermany (Freunde des Heuen Deutechlands)

Priends of the Boviet Ualon

Caribaldl American Fraternal Boclety

Coarge Waahington Carver School, New Tort Clty

German-American Bund (Amertkadeutscher Volksbund)

German-Amertean Republicnn Lesgue

German-American

Vocntlonal League (Deutache-Ameritantache

Berufegemelnschaft)

Gundian Club

Harlem Trade Union Counell

Enwall Civll Llbertles Committee

Eelusha Em, Also known as Nokubel Helekt Olmusha Ral, Zalbel

Nbonjin, Helyaku Olmusha Kal, and Zaibel Heimuaha Kal (Jar-

were Residing In America Milltary Conscripts Association)

Hellenic-American Brotherhood

#linode Kal (Imperial Japanese Beservista)

Hinonaru Kal (Ruing Bun Fing Boclety -a group of Japanese

War

Vererans)

Hokubel Zaigo Bboke Dan (North American Reserve Omicers A8s0

cietion)

Hollywood Wilters Moblliestion for Defense

Eungarlan-American Council for Democracy

Hungarian Brotherbood

Idabo Fennon Ualon

Independent Farty (Beattle, Washington)

(Bee Independent People's Party)

Independent Poople'" Party

(8c0 Independent Party)

Industrial Workers of the World

International Labor Defense

Internalonal Workers Order, lis subdividon, rubeldiartes and

amlisten

Japanese Association of America

Japanone Overseas Central Bociety (Kalgal Dobo Obuo Kal)

Jpanese Overseas Convention, Tolyo, Japan, 1940

Japanese Protective Amociation (Rocrulting Organiestion)

Jelleron Bchool of Bocial Science, Hew Tork City

Jewiah Calture Boclety

Jewlsh People's Committes

Jewled People's Fraternal Order

Jayolu Inlal (The Committee for the Criols)

Johnson-Forest Group

(Boe Johnsonitos)

Johnsonites

(Bee Johnson-Forest Croup)

Joint Anti-Fasciat Befugee Committee

Joint Council of Progreadve Itmlian-Americana, Inc.

Joßeph Wedemeyer Bchool of Bocial Bolence, Bt. Loula, Miesourt

KIbe! Belnen KaI (ANOCation Of U, B. Cllisane of Inpanese An-

cestry who have returned to Amerten after studying in iapan)

Knights of the While Camellle

Ku Kur Elan

Kylhaeuer, alo known as Kyibnourer Longue (Kyllhneuner

Bund). Kythsouser Pallownhip (Kyihseuser Kamerdachafe)

Kylnouser War Rallel (Kyhouser Kregshulfawert)

Imbor Counell for Regro Rightn

Labor Research Amociation, Inc.

Labor Youth League

Lengue for Common Benne

Lengue of American Wrlters

Lletos Bociety (Itallan Bisck 8hirte)

Macodonlan-American People'a Lesgue

Mario Morgantini Cirele

Marilme Labor Committee to Defend Al Lannon

Maryland Congress Against Discrimination

(Bee Committee to Abolish Discrimination In Maryland)

Massachusetta Committee for the Bill of Righta

Masschusetts Minute Women for Pesos (Dos connected with the

Minute Women of the D. A. A. Inc.)

Maurice Braverman Defense Committee

Michigan Civ! Righta Federstion

Michigan Council for Peace

Michigan School of Bocial Sclence

Nanks Telkola Gunyudan (Imperial Malltary Fllends Group or

Southern Callfornia War Veterans)

Natlonal Assoclation of Mexican Americans (also known as AnOCLA-

cion Nactonal Mexico Americans)

Natlonal Blue Blar Mothers of America (not to be confuned with

the Blue Star Mothers of America organised in February 1942)

National Committee for Freedom of the Press

National Committee for the Defense of Politienl Prisoners

Natlona! Committee to Win Amnesty for Bmith Act Vietles

National Committee to Win the Fesco

National Conference on American Policy In China and the Far last

(* Curference called by the Committee for # Democratle Fa

Eastera Policy)

National Council of Americans of Croatian Descant

Hailonal Counch of American-Soviet Frendship

National Federation for Constitutional Libertles

Natlonal Labor Conference for Pence

Natloan! Negro Congreas

Tatlonal Negro Imbor Councl

fatlonalter Action Leagu

= 2=

---

## Page 3

Natonalist Party of Puerto Rico

Nature Friends of America (Mace 1935)

Megro Labor, Victory Committee

Now Committee for Publiestions

Nichibel Kogro Emlaba (The Great Full Theatre)

North American Committee to Ald Spanish Democracy

North American Spanish Ald Oommittee

North Fhildelphin Forum

Northwent Japanese Ansociation

Oblo Echool of Boclal Belences

Okiabami Coramittee to Defend Polltical Prisoners

Okinhomn Lengue for Politient Iducation (100 Communist Politi-

eal Association)

Origiaml Bouthern Kland, Incorporated

Paelis Northwert Labor School, Beattle, Washington

Palo Alto Fence Ciub

Partido del Pueblo of Panama (operating In tbe Canal Zone)

Pence Information Center

Pinos Movement of Ithlopia

People's Dramn, Ine.

People's Educational and Press Asociation of Texa (no Oommu-

al#t Political Association)

Perpleß Iducntional Asocintion (Inoorporated under DAme Los

Angeles Eductional Associntion, Ine.). tino known sa People'»

Eductionnl Center, Foople'» Univerity, People's Behool

People's Institute of Applied Beligion

Puoples Programs (Beattle, Washington)

People's Radio Foundation, Inc.

People'» Eights Party

Philndelphin Labor Committee for Negro Eighta

Philindelphia School of Boctal Bcience and Art

Photo Langue (New Tort City)

Pittsburgh Arts Club

Politien! Irteoners Welfare Committee

Folonin Boclety of the IWO

Progrensive German-Americana, aleo known a Progressive Cler-

man-Americans of Chicago

Proletarlan Party of America

Protestant War Veterans of the United States, Ine.

Proviatonal Committee of Citisens for Peace, Bouthwest Aro

Provisonal Committee on Lotin American Affairs

Provisional Committee to Aboliah Discrimination In the Biate ot

Maryland

(Bee Committee to Abolish Discriminstion in Maryland)

Puerto Rican Comite Pro Ibertades Civiles (CIC)

(Elee Comite Pro Derechos Cirlies)

Puertoniquenos Unidos (Puerto Ricans Valled)

Quad City Committee for Pesce

Queenabridge Tenanta League

Revolutlonnry Workers League

Romanian-American Fraternal Boclety

Bustan American Bociety, Inc

Barum Bal (Patriotle Boclety, Or Cherry Assoclation - compound

et voterana of Bumso Japanese War)

Bamuel Adam School, Boston, Massschusette

Bania Barbars Pesce Parum

Bichappes Defense Committee

Alchnalderman-Dircy Defenno Committer

Echool of Jewish Brudler, New Fort C16y

Beattle Labor School, Beattle, Washlngton

Barblan-American Frateraal Bocloty

Berblan Vidordan Council

Ehinto Temples (limitod to Biate Shinto abolishod le 1013)

Bliver Shirt Logion of Americi

Envie Councll of Bouthern Callfornin

Blovnt Workers Boclety

Bloveain-Amerlean Natloanl Council

Bocinlist Workers Party, Including American Oommittee for Hurd

pean Workers' Bellef

Bokou Kal (Fatherland Bociety)

Bouthern Negro Youth Congress

Sulko Bha, (Benerve Officer Amociation, Los Angeles)

Byracuse Women for Peace

Tom Palna School of Boclal Belence, Phindelphil, Pennsylvani

Tom Palne Bchool of Westeberter, New Tork

Trade Union Committee for Fence

(800 Trade Unloalate for Pence)

Trade Unlonlats for Pesos

(Beo Trado Unionists for Peace)

Trl-Btate Negro Tride Dalon Counci

Uninian-American Fraterand Union

Union of American Crostians

Unlan of New York Veterans

United Amertenn Epanish Aid Committoe

United Committee of Jewish Bocietier and Landsmanchart Fod-

rations, mino known a Coordination Oommittes of Jewel

Indomanschaften and Praternl Organisation

United Committee of Bouth Blavle Americans

United Defense Counell of Bouthern California

United Harlem Tenants and Consumer Organietion

United May Day Committee

United Negro and Allied Vetersas of Amerter

Veterans Against Discrimination of Civil Right Congress of New

Tarts (one Civil Eights Congrem)

eterans of the Abraham Lincoln Brand

Irdnin Lengue for People's Education (060 Communiat Politie

Association)

Volce of Freedom Committee

Walt Whitman School of Bocial Sclence, Newsrk, New Jersey

Washington Bookkhop Association

Washington Committee for Democratle Action

Washington Committee to Defend the Bull of Rights

Washington Commonwealth Federation

Washington Penelon Union

Wlaconsin. Conference on Bocial Legislatlol

Workers Alliance (nace April 1938)

Nadinher Kaltur Farbanc

Young Communist Lettue

Yugonlav-American Cooperative Home, Inc

Tugoslay Besmen's Club, Ine

- 3-

---

## Page 4

14-00000

• DO NOT USE THIS SPACE

ISSUED BY :

THIS DATE (Pill E)

PERSONAL HISTORY STATEMENT

September 6, 1961

INSTRUCTIONS

B/S=K/C0

1. Answer all questions completely or check appropriate box. If question is not applicable, write NA".

Write "Un-

only if you do not know the answer and it cannot be obtained from personal records. Use blank space at

end of form for extra details on any question for which you have insufficient space.

2. Type, print or write carefully; illegible or incomplete forms will not receive consideration.

3. Consider your answers carefully. Your signature at the end of this form will certify to their correctness. Careful

completion of all applicable questions will permit review of your qualifications to the best advantage.

SECTION I

GENERAL PERSONAL AND PHYSICAL DATA

1. FULL NAME (Ladt-Firat-Middle)

2. AGE

3. SEX

FLORES, Daniel

26

8.

AMALE

FEMALE

Д. HEIGHT

5. WEIGHT

6, COLOR OF EYES

7. COLOR OF MAIR

CAPE COMPLEXION

9. TYPE BUILD

5' 8"

165 pds.

Brown

Black

Dark

Medium

1Q, SCARS (Type and Location)

Right cheek,

one-half inch soar;

left upper lip, one-

quarter

inch scari

i both received playing football

OTHER DISTINGUSHING PHYSICAL FEATURES

None

12. CURRENT ADDRESS (No., Street, City, Zone. State and Country)

13. PERMANENT AHOREN NO., Strool, City, Zone, Stele anc

_ Country) AND PHONE NO

Washing ton 8, D. C.

- Washington 8, D.C.

14. CURRENT PHONE NO.

08

15. OFFICE PHONE NO. & EXT.

None

16. LEGAL RESIDENCE (State, Territory or Coumiry)

Washington, District of Columbia

17. NICKNAMES

18. OTHER NAMES YOU HAVE USED

Dan

None

19. INDICATE CIRCUMSTANCES (includimß Length of Time) UNDER WHICH YOU HAVE EVER USED THESE NAMES.

Persona

acquaintances

twelve years

20. IF LEGAL CHANGE, GIVE PARTICULARS (Where and by What Aulhority).

NA

SECTION II

POSITION DATA

1. INDICATE THE TYPE OF WORK OR POSITION FOR WHICH YOU ARE APPLYING

1-45%

Any phase of communications; administration; or personnel

work.

ACCEPT (YOU

will not be conaldered for any

3. DATE AVAILABLE FOR ENPLOYMENT

entrance salary).

4.250.00

Immediately

&. INDICATE YOUR WILLINGNESS TO TRAVEL

OCCASIONALLY

AFREQUENTLY

CONSTANTLY

OTHER:

5. INDICATE YOUR WILLINGNESS TO ACCEPT ASSIGNMENT IN THE FOLLOWING LOCATIONS (Check (X) each item applicablo)

XI WASHINGTON. D.C.

ANYWHERE IN U.S.

CERTAIN LOCATIONS ONLY (Specily):

XOUTSIDE CONTINENTAL U.S.

6. INDICATE WHAT RESERVATIONS YOU WOLLD PLACE ON ASSIGNMENTS OUTSIDE THE WASHINGTON, D.C. AREA.

said travel would not involve a permanent move whereby my legal

on a permanent basis.

FORM 444 USE PREVIOUS EDITION.

11-58

3/00

JOY COONEY

49

(4)

---

## Page 5

14-00000

SECTION III

1. DATE OF -BIRTH

CITIZENSHIP

[2. PLACE OF BIRTH (City, State, Couniry)

Ts. PRESENT CITIZENSHIP (Country)

198510

Texas

United States of America

T. CITIZENSHIP ACQUTRED EY

S. PEE MATURAL-

6. NATURALIZATION CERTIFICATE NO.

X BIRTH

MARRIAGE

OTHER (Specily):

7. COURT ISSUING NATURALIZATION CERTIFICATE

8, ISSUEO NA (CItY, Siar, Country

NA

9. HAVE YOU HELD PREVIOUS NATIONALITY

10. IF YES, GIVE NAME OF COUNTRY

11, GIVE PARTICULARS CONCERNING PREVIOUS NATIONALITY.

NA

12. HAVE YOU TAKEN STEPS TO CHANGE

YES 13. GIVE PARTICULARS

PRESENT CITIZENSHIP

NA

16. IF YOU HAVE APPLIED FOR U.S. CITIZENSHIP, WHAT IS PRESENT STATUS OF YOUR APPLICATION (Firet Papere, Blc.)?

NA

15. DATE OF ARRIVAL IN U.9.

NA

16. PORT OF ENTRY

NA

18. LAST U.S. VISA (No., Type, Place of laaue)

NA

17. ON PASSPORT OF WHAT COUNTRY

NA

19. DATE VISA ISSUED

NA

SECTION IV

X

LESS THAN MIGH SCHOOL GRADUATE

HIGH SCHOOL GRADUATE

TRADE, BUSINESS, OR COMMERCIAL SCHOOL GRADUATE

TWO YEARS COLLEGE OR LESS

1. NAME OF ELEMENTARY SCHOOL*

3. TATES ATTENDED (From and To)

Elementary School:

Septoe 1942 - Maye 1951

EDUCATION

1. CHECK (X) HIGHEST LEVEL OF EDUCATION ATTAINED

OVER TWO YEARS OF COLLEGE - NO DEGREE

BACHELOR'S DEGREE

GRADUATE STUDY LEADING TO HIGHER DEGREE

MASTER'S DEGREE

DOCTOR'S DEGREE

2. ELEMENTARY SCHOOL

3. ADDRESS (Cl, State, Country)

Texas, VasaA.

4. GRADUATE

L. NAME OF MIGH

SCHOOL

High School

8. DATES ATTENDED (From and-To)

Septer

1951 - May, 1955

T. NAME OF HIGH SCHOOL

NA

3. DATES ATTENDED (From and To)

X vES

NO

3. HIGH SCHOOL

2. ADDRESS (City, State, Country)

*Texas, U.S.Ai

10

4. GRADUATE

I NO

3. ADDRESS (City, State, Country)

A. GRADUATE

NAME AND LOCATION OF COLLEGE OR UNIVERSITY

YES

4. COLLEGE OR UNIVERSITY STUDY

SUBJECT

DATES ATTENDED

MAJOR MINOR

FROM

To

I NO

DECESE

RACE

EM/OT

lOUP

(Spocily)

SECTION IV CONTINUED TO PAGE 3

50

6120

---

## Page 6

14-00000

SECTION IV CONTINUED FROM PAGE 2

3. OF A GEAPUESTS OF BRE HAS BESCRIBE ERS CONFENTMICH REQUIRED SUBMISSION OF A WRITTEN THESIS, INDICATE THE TiTLE

NA

NAME AND ADDRESS OF SCHOOL

B. TRADE, COMMERCIAL AND SPECIALIZED SCHOOLS

STUDY OR SPECIALIZATION

FROM

NA

TO

MONTHS

T. MILITARY TRAINING (FULL TIME DUTY IN SPECIALIZED SCHOOLS SUCH AS ORDNANCE, INTELLIGENCE, COMMUNICATIONS, ETC.)

NAME AND ADDRESS OF SCHOOL

STUDY OR SPECIALIZATION

Marine Security Guard

Schoöl - Henderson Fall

Hq. Marine Corps,

tant oron ta Security Guara

Washington 25, D.S.

Training

9/28/58

10/31/58

(5 wies)

8. OTHER EDUCATIONAL TRAINING NOT INDICATED ABOVE.

Weapons Training in Marine Corps.

Acted as partisan during cold weather training at Bridgeport,

California (Pickle Meadows - USMC) •

SECTION V

1. LANGUAGE

(Lint bolow each language in

which you posseas any degree

of competence.

Indleato your -

proficioncy to Read, Weite or

Speak by placing a check (X)

in the appropelato box(ed).

Spanish

FOREIGN LANGUAGE ABILITIES

COMPETENCE - IN ORDER LISTED

R-Rood,

w.Write,

S-Speak

EQUIV-

ALENT

TO

NATIVE

FLUENCY

FLUENT

BUT

OBVIOUSLY

FOREIGN

ADEQUATE

FOR

RESEARCH

ADEQUATE

FOR

TRAVEL

HOW ACQUIRED

LIMITED

KNOW-

LEDGE

"NATIVE

OF

COUNTRY

PRO

LONGED

RES

IDENCE

CONTACTACADEMIC

with

(all

parents,

atc.)

levele)

RMs

2. IF YOU HAVE CHECKED "'ACADEMIC STUDY" UNDER "HOW ACQUIRED", INDICATE LENGTH AND INTENSIVENESS OF STUDY.

NA

S. PLAOU FOAME COMIEATENCE

FLUENCY FOR A LANGUAGE HAVING SIGNIFICANT DIFFERENCES IN SPOKEN AND WRITTEN FORM, EX-

A. PESC, ENGINEERAND, TELECOM SRECATIONS, CANTUAY, ANO OTHER SPEC LIGED ELDES AND TERMINOLOGY IN THE SCIEN.

Could act as literal interpreter at almost any level.

3. IF YOU HAVE NOTED A FRI

PROFICIENCY IN LANGUAGE, WOULD YOU BE WILLING TO USE THIS ABILITY IN ANY POSITION FOR WHICH

Ol YES

I NO

-3.51

---

## Page 7

14-00000

SECTION VI

GEOGRAPMIC AREA KNOWLEDGE AND FOREIGN TRAVEL

1. LIST BELOW ANY FOREIGN REGIONS OR COUNTRIES

ROADS, INDUSTRIES, POLITICAL

PARTIES, ETC.

IDEAT TICH DO HOWE EGOY SUCH AST EATER, MORE ERSE

ASE RESULTIE

REGION dE COUNTRY

Bolivia

Peri

Chile

Argentina

DATES OF

SPECIALIZED KNOWLEDGE

RESIDENCE

OR TRAVEL

11/13/58 to

General knowled 11/41/0 to

General knowledge

677/20/60

6/21/59

6/30/59

PLACE OF STUDY

KNOWLEDGE ACQUIRED BY

WORK

DENCE TRAVEL STUDY ASSIGN

MENT

Marine Security Guard - American Embassy - Bollvia and Peru

Vacation - Chile; Argentina; Uruguay; Panama

3. UNITED STATES PASSPORT NUMBER AND EXPIRATION DATE. IF ISSUED.

No.

Passport has been cancelled.

SECTION VII

TYPING AND STENOGRAPHIC SKILLS

1. TYPING (wym)

2. SHORTHAND (wam)

9. SHORTHAND SYSTEM USED - CHECK (X) APPROPRIATE ITEM

45 wom

2 INDICATE OTHER BUSINESS MACHINES WITH WHICH YOU HE WIT OPERA TENO TYPERIENCE ERA Comp tomorer,

Insogph, Card Purch, Etc.).

Thermofax, mimeograph, switchboard

SECTION VIII

SPECIAL QUALIFICATIONS

" WEACH! HOBBIES AND SPORTS IN WHICH YOU ARE ACTIVE OR MAVE ACTIVELY PARTICIPATED. INDICATE YOUR PROFICIENCY

Foot ball

good

Basketball

- fair

Swimming

• •good

Reading

average

Contract. Bridge - very good

SPECIAL

PARTCUE AN PSSFION OR TAPE CATIONS.

RESULTING FROM EXPERIENCE OR TRAINING WHICH MIGHT FIT YOU FOR A

None to my knowledge

3. EXCLUDING BUSINESS EQUIPMENT OR MACHINES WHICH YOU MAY HAVE LISTED IN ITEM 2, SECTION VII.

A DO POSE GOONS OFF REEN XEY MAY HE CENTRE NO D DEVE SADIO CRO

None

SECTION VIII CONTINUED TO PAGE 5

52

---

## Page 8

14-00000

SECTION VIII CONTINUED FROM PAGE 4

•ARE TENAN, RADIO PER FEE PEACHER CENTER. ERA MEDIAN. T

TRADE OR PROFESSION, SUCH AS PILOT

S: NeOr, HANE ANSWERED "YES" TO ABOVE, INDICATE KIND OF LICENSE AND STATE ISSUNG LICENSE (Provido LICOnDo ROBiARy

NA

8. FIRST LICENSE OR CERTIFICATE (Yoar of lague)

7. LATEST LICENSE OR CERTIFICATE (Year of leaue)

None

$. INDICATE ANY DEVICES WHICH YOU HAVE INVENTED AND STATE WHETHER OR NOT THEY ARE PATENTED.

None

10. LIST PUBLIC SPEAKING AND PUBLIC RELATIONS EXPERIENCE.

Have spoken in my father's church and other churches approximately

150 times.

Met and assisted public in Embassies during my tour of

duty with the Marine Security Guard.

I. LIST ANY PROFESSIONAL,

ACADEMIC OR HONORARY ASSOCIATIONS OR SOCIETIES IN WHICH YOU ARE NOW OR WERE FORMERLY

* MEMBER. LIST ACADEMIC HONORS YOU MAVE RECEIVED.

None

.

SECTION IX

EMPLOYMENT HISTORY

pcluding casual employment and all periods of unemployment.

employment. List all civilian employment by a foreign Govemment, regardless of dates. In completing item

ription of Duties consider your experience carelully and provide meaningful, objective statement

T. INCLUSIVE DATES (From and To - Byldo, and Yr.)

2. NAME OF EMPLOYING FIRM OR AGENCY

3. PROST1929 00 1953 AN

Drug Store

00

0

Texas

4. KIND OF BUSINESS

3. NAME OF SUPERVISOR

06

Mre W1711am

%. SALARY OR EARNINGS

MOORADE(lI Federal Service)

$100.00 PER month

Fountain attendant

D. DESCRIPTION OF DUTIE:

Employee at soda counter

10. REASONS FOR LEAVING

To participate in school events (football).

SECTION IX CONTINUED TO PAGE 6

53

3/00

---

## Page 9

14-00000

2

SECTION IX CONTINUED FROM PAGE 5

1. INCLUSIVE DATES (From and To - By Mo. and Yr.)

T7. NAME OF EMPLOYING FIRM OR AGENCY

July 1954-June 1955

Grocery Store

3.

ADDRESS (No., Stroet, Olty, Stato, Coumiry)

Texas

5. NAME OF SUPERVISOR

4. KIND OF BUSINESS

Grocery Store

6. TITLE OF JOB

7006

D. CLASS. GRADE (Il Podoral Servico)

Butcher

%. SALARY OR EARNINGS

330.00

PER

• Week

#. DESCRIPTION OF DUTIES

Slaughtering and preparing meat for sale as well as actual selling.

10. REASONS FOR LEAVING

To attend college

1. INCLUSIVE DATES (From and To - By Mo. and Yr.)

Maye

1955 - Septembere

1956

3. ADDRESS (No., Street, City, Stato, Country)

° Texas

4. KIND OF BUSINESS

Private School

6. TITLE OF JOB

Painter's Assistant

9. DESCRIPTION OF DUTIES

Painted dormitories in the Academy

2. NAME OF EMPLOYING FIRM OR AGENCY

Baptist Academy

об

5. NAME OF SUPERVISOR

Mr

7. SALARY ON EARNINGS

$ 35.00 /PER WeeK

10. REASONS FOR LEAVING

To attend school

1. INCLUSIVE DATES (From and To - By Mo. and Yr.)

September, 1956 - JulJ, 1957

3. ADDRESS (ND., Street, City, State, Country)

OTexas

2. NAME OF EMPLOYING FIRM OR AGENCY

Department Stores

" KIND UF DUSTVESS

Clothing Store

B. TITLE QF JOB

Sales Clerk

5. NAME QF SUPERVISOR

Mr •

$ 30.00

*. DESCRIPTION OF DUTIES

Assisted customers in selecting and buying goods.

%. SALARY OR EARNINGS

8. CLASS. GRADE(I! Foderal Servico)

PER week

10. REASONS FOR LEAVING

To join the Marine Corps.

1. INCLUSIVE DATES (From and To - By Mo. and Yr.)

July 26

JUT 26 196 C, JuLy, 1901

2. NAME OF EMPLOYING FIRM OR AGENCY

United States Marine Corps

Marine Corps Schools, Quantico, Virginia

A. KIND OF BUSINESS

$. NAME OF SUPERVISOR

Military

Col. John Magruder

B. TITLE OF JOB

7. SALARY OR EARNINGS

8. CLASS. ORADE (11 Federal Service)

Marine Corps Museum Attendant

$ 180.00 PER month

Cpl. (E-4)

SECTION IX CONTINUED TO PAGE 7

54

09/11

---

## Page 10

14-00000

6

7

SECTION IX CONTINUED FROM PAGE 6

*. DESCRIPTION OF DUTIES

Acted as guide to all visitors entering Museum, explaining

Marine Corps history, etc.

Also on several occasions acted as

Interpreter for visiting military personnel from Latin America.

10. REASONS FOR LEAVING

Dis charged

1. INCLUSIVE DATES (From and To - By Mo. and Yr.)

July 28,

1961 - August 30, 196]

2. NAME OF EMPLOYING FIRM OR AGENCY

Engineering Company

J. ADDRESS (No., Street, City, State, Country)

FIC OF TONEST

Construction

6. TITLE OF JOB

Laborer

$. DESCRIPTION OF DUTIES

Handynan for Company

06

Washington.

D. C.

3. NAME OF SUPERVISOR

Mr.

106

$ 2.17

7. SALARY OR EARNINGS

IPeR hour

8. CLASS. GRADE (Il Federal

Service)

-

10. REASONS FOR LEAVING

Temporary work while seeking permanent employment.

T. INCLUSIVE DATES (From end To - By lo. and Yr.)

2. NAME OF EMPLOYING FIRM OR AGENCY

3 ADDRESS (No., Street, City, State, Country)

A. KIND OF BUSINESS

5. NAME OF SUPERVISOR

B. TITLE OF JOB

7. SALARY OR EARNINGS

IPER .

•. CLASS. GRADE (I1 Federal

Service

#. DESCRIPTION OF DUTIES

10. REASONS FOR LEAVING

• HURBOR OF VICES CREDITA LEO FOWL SO YESMEN SERVICE RETRYMEND, CA KNOWE.

*. HAVE YOU EVER BEEN DISCHARGED OR ASKED TO RESIGN FROM ANY POSITION.

HAVE YOU LEFT A POSITION UNDER CIRCUMSTANCES WHICH YOU DESIRE TO EXPLAIN!

IF YOUR ANSWER TO EITHER OR BOTH QUESTIONS IS "YES", GIVE DETAILS

*rES

Honorably discharged from United States Marine Corps.

71/2 years

DINO

KNO

-

-

•8.

55

---

## Page 11

14-00000

SECTION X*

1. ARE YOU REGISTERED FOR THE DRAFT UNDER

THE UNIVERSAL

MILITARY TRAINING AND

SERVICE ACT OF 1948 (As amended)

4. IF DEFERRED, GIVE REASON

NA

MILITARY SERVICE

1. CURRENT DRAFT STATUS

2. SELECTIVE SERVICE CLASSIFE | 3. SELECTIVE SERVICE NO.

dY-A

об

5, LOCAL DRAFT BOARD NO. OR DELTEMATION AND ADDRESS

708

2. MILITARY SERVICE RECORD (0/

1 Texas

1. CURRENT AND/OR PAST ORGANIZATIONAL MENBERSHIP

CHECK (X) AS

MARINE

AIR

COAST

AERCHANTI NATIONAL AIR NATI

FOREIGN ORGAN. OR MIL.

APPROPRIATE

ARMY

MAVY

CORPS

FORCE

GUARD

GUARD

SERVICE (Specily):

GUARD

HAVE SERVED

NOW SERVING

None

2. BRANCH OR CORPS OF ABOVE CHECKED ORGANIZATION(S)

Personnel Administration

3. DATE SEPARATED FRON EXTENDED ACTIVE DUTY (Paul service)

" FORCES Peel and curent iNPED

LENGTH OF EXTENDED ACTIVE DUTY IN U.S. ARMEI

25 JulTe 1961

4 years

5. DATE ENTERED

PAST SERVICE

CURRENT SERVICE

ACTIVE DUTY

6. TOTAL LENGTH OF ACTIVE DUTY IN FOREIGN MILITARY OR

26 July, 195?

GANIZATION

7. RANK, GRADE OR

PAST SERVICE

CURRENT SERVICE

RATE

8. SERVICE, SERIAL OR FILE NUMBER (Il now porvine, provido cup

Cp1. (E-4)

. PRIMARY MILITARY OCCUPATIONAL

FAST SERVICE

"ECALTY mod * Desinaloe AND TITi

CURRENT SERVICE

0141 - Chief Clerk

10. SECONDARY

MIL.

OCCUPATIONAL

PAST SERVICE

SPECIALTY (Mon or Designator) AND

CURRENT SERVICE

TITLE

None

11. BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF MILITARY DUTIES (Indicate whether appilcable to past os current servico)

Past Service:

Clerk - Maintained personnel service records.

2 years as Security Guard In the American Embassies in

La Paz, Bolivia and Lima, Peru.

12. CHECK (X) TYPE OF SEPARATION FROM ACTIVE DUTY

X

HONORABLE DISCHARGE

RELEASE TO INACTIVE DUTY

RETIREMENT FOR AGE

RETIREMENT FOR SERVICE

RETIREMENT FOR COMBAT DISABILITY

UNQUE HARDSHIPS

OTMER:

RETIREMENT FOR PHYSICAL DISABILITY

13. CHECK (X) COMPONENT IN WHICH YOU SERVED

REGULAR

RESERVE (Including the National and Air National Guard)

OTHER (including AUS)

3. MILITARY RESERVE, NATIONAL GUARD AND ROTC STATUS

!. DO YOU NOW MAVE

RESERVE STATUST

X

YES

YES

NO

3. ARE ROU NOM A MEMBER OF

GAD. *

NO

YES

NO

ARMY

4. IF YOU HAVE ANSWERED "YES" TO ITEMS 1, 2 OR 3 ABOVE, CHECK COMPONENT MEMBERSHIP BELOW

X

MARINE CORPS

NATIONALGUARO

COAST GUARD

NAVY ROTE

INDICATE ROTC CATEGORY NUM

NAVY

AIR FORCE

AIR NAT'L. GUARD

ARMY ROTC

AIR FORCE ROTC BER

5. CURRENT RANK, GRADE OR

6. DATE OF APPOINTMENT IN CURRENT

RATE Gple (E-4)

7. EXPIRATION DATE OF CURRENT RESERVE OBLIGA-

Maye, 1959

January 20, 1962

8. CHECK (X) CURRENT RESERVE CATEGORY

READY RESERVE

STANDEY (AClive) X STANDBY (Inactive)l

TRETIRED

9. PRIMARY MILITARY OCCUPATIONAL SPECIALTY (MOO Or DOBl

nator) AND TITLE

10. SECONDARY MILITARY OCCUPATIONAL SPECIALTY Moe or Dea

0141

None

11. BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF MILITARY RESERVE DUTIES

None

IZ, ARE YOU

CURRENTLY ASSIGNED OR ATTACHEC

TO A RESERVE, MAPL.

GUARD OA ROTE TRAIN

ING UNIT

16. MANF, YOU A MILITARY MOBILIZATION ASSIGN-

16. INDICATE TOTAL MILITARY SERVICE

YEARS

•FOR

LONGEVITY PURPOSES INCLUD

ING ACTIVE

AND INACTIVE DUTY

7

YES

NO

YES

X

NO

MONTHS

7

YOU HAVE

13. IF YOU MAVE

ANSWERED "YES" TO ITEM 12, GIVE UNIT OR AGENCY

15. IF YOU MAVE ANSWERED "YES" TO ITEM IA, GIVE UNIT OR AGENCY

AND ADDRESS

17. WHERE ARE YOUR SERVICE RECORDS KEPTI

Headquarters Marine Corps,

56

vashingto

3/00

---

## Page 12

14-00000

SECTION XI

- FINANCIAL STATUS

1-ARE YOU ENTIRELY DEPENDENT ON YOUR SALARY?

LUrES

2. IF YOUR ANSWER IS 'NO"' TO THE ABOVE, STATE SOURCES OF OTHER INCOME

Wife's Income

B NO

NAME OF INSTITUTION

The Bank of California, N.A.

Union Trust Company

3. BANKING INSTITUTIONS WITH WHICH YOU HAVE ACCOUNTS

ADDRESS (City, State, Country)

330 S.W. 6th Avenue,

Portland, Oregon

15 and H Streets, N.W.,

Washington, D.C.

4. HAVE YOU EVER BEEN IN, OR PETITIONED FOR, BANKRUPTCY.

O YES

EX NO

5. IF YOUR ANSWER IS 'YES" TO THE ABOVE, GIVE PARTICULARS, INCLUDING COURT AND DATE(S)

NAME

General Motors Acceptance Corp.

Gulf 011 Corporation

Ninde Furniture Company

6. GIVE THREE CREDIT REFERENCES IN THE UNITED STATES

• ADDRESS (No., Streel, City, State)

1310 S.W. Yanhill Street,

Portland 5,

Oregon

P.O. Box 7245,

Atlanta 9

Georgia

917 Caroline Steet,

Fredericksburg Virginia

B. IF YOUR ANSWER IS ""YES" TO THE ABOVE QUESTION. GIVE COMPLETE DETAILS

APPER ANCIS OR BUSINESSES HAVING SUBSTANTIAL FOREIGN INTERESTS

CORPORATIONS OR BUSINESSES: OF IN

7 NO

(Il anewer "YES", fumish detalla on separato aheet.)

SECTION XII

MARITAL STATUS

8. PRESENT STATUS (Single, Married, Widowed, Separatod, Divorced, or Arulled) SPECIFY: Married

2. STATE DATE, PLACE, AND REASON FOR ALL SEPARATIONS, DIVORCES OR ANNULMENTS

NA

WIFE, HUSBAND If you have been married more than once - including annulments - use a separate sheet for former wife or

husband giving data required below for all previous marriages. If marriage contemplated, fill in appropriate

3. NAME

(Maiden)

- (Last) •

Flores

4. STATE ANT OTHER NAMES EVER USED

06

INDICATE CIRCUMSTANCES (Including length of tine) UNDER WHICH ANY

OF THESE NAMES WERE USED.

IF LEGAL CHANGE GIVE PARTICULARS

(Where and by what authority). USE EXTRA SPACE PROVIDED ON PAGE 16

OF THIS FORM TO RECORD THIS INFORMATION.

S. DATE OF MARRIAGE.

5.- PLACE OF MARRIAGE (City, State, Country)

November 14, 1960

110

7. HIS IOR HERI ADDRESS BEFORE WARRIAGE (No., STrEET, City, Seale, Country)

American Embassy.

B. LIVING

9. DATE OF DEATH

10. CAUSE OF DEATH

• *

11. CURRENT ADDRESS (Give lost address, Il deceased)

12. DATE OF BIRTH

January 31, 1935

Washington & D.C.

19. PLACE OF BIRTH (City, State, Country)

Portland, Oregon

SECTION XII CONTINUED TO PAGE 10

United States of

---

## Page 13

14-00000

• 10 -

14. IF BORN OUTSIDE U.S. - DATE OF ENTRY

SECTION XI! CONTINUED FROM PAGE 9

15. PLACE OF ENTRY

16. FORMER CITIZENSHIPS) [Countrytical

NA

19. OCCUPATION

Legal Secretary:

17. REGE HE, CITIZENSHIP 18. WHERE ACQUIRED (Cly, Stato, Country)

20. PRESENT EMPLOYER (Also Give former employer, or il apoure deceased or

4308

Department of State

Former:

21. EMPLOYER'S OR BUSINESS ADDRESS (No., Street,

City, State, Country)

Washington 6, D.C.

22. DATES OF MILITARY SERVICE (From and lo - 3y Mo. and Yr.)

None

23. BRANCH OF SERVICE

24. COUNTRY WITH WHICH MILITARY SERVICE AFFILIATED

25. DETAILS OF OTHER GOVERNMENT SERVICE, U.S. OR FOREIGN Foreign Service - Jan., 1958 - Oct.,

1960; CIv1] Service - April 1967 - June 1961

SECTION XIII

CHILDREN AND OTHER DEPENDENTS

1. PROVIDE THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION FOR ALL CHILDREN AND DEPENDENTS

NAME

RELATIONSHIP DATE AND PLACE OF BIRTH

CITIZENSHIP

ADDRESS

None

2. HUMBER ON COPLE ENCES WHO ARE

AND NOT EEL SOPORTING.

UNDER 21 YRS. OF AGE.

CHILDREN

SELF SUPPORTING.

SECTION XIV

FATHER (Give same information, for Stepfather and/ or Guardian on a separate sheet)

1, FULL NAME (Last-Firer-Midle)

2. LIVING

3. DATE, OF DEATH

TA. CAUSE OF DEATH

Flores

X. YES? | NO

3. STATE@ THER NAMES ME MAS USED

INDICATE CIRCUMSTANCES (ineluding length of tine) UNDER WHICH HE HAS

EVER USED THESE NAMES. IF LEGAL CHANGE, GIVE PARTICULARS (Where

and by what authority).

USE EXTRA SPACE PROVIDED ON PAGE 16 OF THIS

None

FORM TO RECORD THIS INFORMATION.

6. CURRENT ADDRESS - Give leat addross, ll deceedod (No., Street, Cliy, Siate, Country)

Texas

B. PLACE OF BIRTH (CITy, State, Country)

#. CITIZENSHIP

Mier y Noriegae

December

1898

D. IF BORN OUTSIDE U.S. - DATE OF ENTRY

May 24, 1918

12. FORMER CITIZENSHIP(S)

(Countryiea))

Mexican

Unknown

19.. DATE U.S. CITIZENSHIP

T14. WHERE ACQUIRED (City, State, Country)

Texas

PRESENT EMPLOYER (ova leo implyer, i Pathol le Xoo8o ed or unemployed

Baptist Minister

Mexican Baptist

• Church

EMPLOYER'S BUSINESS ADDRESS OR FATHER'S BUSINESS ADDRESS IF SELF-EMPLOYEO

Texas

DATES OF MILITAR

SERVICE (From and-TO) 19. BRANCH OF SERVICI

nOWledgE

20. COUNTRY

58

---

## Page 14

14-00000

SECTION XY

MOTHER (vive same information

felt Stepmother on separate sheet)

1. FULL NAME (Last-Piral-Middlo)

2.

VING

8. DATE OF DEATH

# CAUSE OF DEATH

Flores.

106

Tyes

XI NO

June 1939

Unknown

5. STATE OTHER NAMES SHE HAS USED

IND CATE CIRCOMSTANCES (includind length of time) UNDER WHICH SHE HAS

EVER USED THESE NAMES. IF LEGAL CHANGE, GIVE PARTICULARS (Where

and hy what ou

Mority). USE EXTRA SPACE PROVIDED ON PAGE I6 OF THIS

None to my knowledge

FORMTO RECOND THIS INFORMATION.

B. CURRENT ADDRESS - GIVE LAST ADDRESS, IF DECEASED (No., Sireel, City Stale, Country)

Texas

7. DATE OF BIRTH

3. PLACE OF BIRTH (Cly, State, Country)

September 20, 1903 Mier y Noriega, Nuevo Leon, Mexico

ENSAT

Mexican

10. IF BORN OUTSIDE U.S,- DATE OF ENTRY

11. PLACE OF ENTRY

Unknown

Unknown

12.

FORMER CITIZENSHIP(S)

[Countryties)

13. DATE U.S. CITIZENSHIP

14. WHERE ACQUIRED (City, State, Coup)

ACQUIRED

NA

NA

15. OCCUPATION

16. PRESENT EMPLOYER (Give last employer, ll Mother de deceased of unemployed)

Housewife

NA

17. EMPLOYER'S BUSINESS ADDRESS OR MOTHER'S BUSINESS ADDRESS IF SELF EMPLOYED

18, DATES OF MILITARY SERVICE (Eror-and-To)

NA

21. DETAILS OF OTHER GOVERNMENT SERVICE, U.S. OR FOREIGN

19. BRANCH OF SERVICE

NA

20. COUNTRY

NA

SECTION XVI

1. FULL NAME (Lant Firt-Middlo)

BROTHERS AND SISTERS (Including Half-, Step- and Adopted Brothers and Sisters)

— RELATIONSHIP

06

Sister

4. CURRENT ADDRESS (IS, Sabel, City, Lone, State, Country)

2

3

4

6

Texas

2. RELATIONSHIP

Sister

•. CURRENT ADDRESS (No., Street, City, Zone, State, Country)

Texas

726

2. RELATIONSHIP

Sister

4. CURRENT ADDRESS (No, Strees, City, Zone, Stato, Country)

I. FULL NAME (Lar-FIra-Middle)

Flores.

4. CURRENT ADDRESS SO, STOOL EYEBOTO Stalo, COUmery,

1 Texas

2. RELATIONSHIP

Brother

I Texas

FULL NAME (Last-VIre ladle)

Flores

→06

2. RELATIONSHIP

•Brother

8. CURRENT ADDRESS (No, Street, City, Lone, Sente, Country)

Texas

2. RELATIONSHIP

Sister

1. CURRENT ADDRESS (No.. Spreat, City, Zono, Stato, Conmery)

IT. FULL NAME (Last-FIre -Middio)

706

Virginia

2. RELATIONSHIP

Brother

#. CURRENT AI

Wl, City, Ione, Stale, Country)

Deceased

1. FULL NAME (Last-Fini-Middlo)

Florese

p6

€ A CURRENT ADDRESS (NO. SProot, City. Lond, State, Country)

DeCeased

2. RELATIONSHIP

Brother

3. CITIZENSHIP (Country)

U.S. Of America

B. LIVING

6. AGE

& YES NO

41

#. CITIZENSHIP (Country)

U.S. of America

5. LIVING

16. AGE

NO

39

3. CITIZENSHIP (Country)

U.S. of America

5. LIVING

16. AGE

X YES NO

34

#. CITIZENSHIP (Country)

U.S.

of America

5. LIVING

16. AGE

I YES NO

32

3. CITIZENSHIP (Country)

U.S. of America

&. LIVING

16. AGE

X YES NO

29

3. CITIZENSHIP (Country)

U.S. of America

5. LIWING

6. AGE

NO

27

J. CITIZENSHIP (Country)

U.S. of America

B. LIVING

6. AGE

YES X NO

3, CITIZENSMIP (Country)

U.S. of America

B. LIVING

G. AGE

YES XI NO

NA

.11.59

---

## Page 15

14-00000

SECTION XVI!

T. FULL NAME (Last-Firat Middle)

FATHER-IN-LAW

z.

LIVING

3. DATE OF DEATH

4.

CAUSE OF DEATH

06

IT YES

5.

STATE OTHER NAMÉS HE HAS USED

INDICATE CIRCUMSTANCES (Including length of time) UNDER WHICH HE HAS

EVER USED THESE NAMES.

IF LEGAL CHANGE, GIVE PARTICULARS (Where

and by whal authority).

USE EXTRA SPACE PROVIDED ON PAGE 16 OF THIS

FORM TO RECORD THIS INFORMATION.

Ray

CURRENT OR LAST ADDRESS (NO., Street,

City, State, Country) ,08

Oregon

DATE OF BIRTH

January 2, 1909

110. IF BORN OUTSIDE U.S. - DATE OF ENTRY

NA

12. FORMER CITIZENSHIPIS) [CountryTles)

NA

T. PLACE OF BIRTHTCy, State, Country)

Minot, North Dakota

9. CITIZENSHIP

U.S. of america

11. PLACE OF ENTRY

NA

DATE U.S. CITIZENSHIP

14. WHERE ACQUIRED (City, State, Country)

ACQUIRED

NA

13. OCCUPATION

PRESENT EMPLOYER (Give loal employer, ll Fatherin-Law in decoaned or unemployed)

Warehouse Foreman

¡ SECTION XVIII

08

MOTHER-IN-LAW

Portland, Oregon

1. FULL NAME (Leat-Pirat-Middle>

3. DATE OF DEATH

#. CAUSE OF DEAT

06

YES

NO

TS. STATE OTHER NAMES SHE HAS USED

INDICATE CIRCUMSTANCES (Including length of times UNDER WHICH SHE HAS

EVER USED THESE NAMES. IF LEGAL CHANGE, GIVE PARTICULARS (Where

and by what authority) USE EXTRA SPACE PROVIDED ON PAGE 16 OF THIS

FORM TO RECORD THIS INFORMATION.

- CURRENT OR LAST ADDRESS (No., Streel, City, Stale, Country) 00

Oregon

7. DATE OF BIRTH

8. PLACE OF BIRTH (City, State, Court»)

May 4, 1910

Portland, Oregon

10. IF BORN OUTSIDE U.S. - DATE OF ENTRY

PLACE OF ENT

#. CITIZENSHIP

U,S, of Americe

12. FORMER CITIZENSHIP(S) (Country(les)

DATE U.S. CITIZENSHIP

14. WHERE ACQUIRED (City, State, Country)

ACQUIRED

NA

PRESENT EMPLOYER (Give last employer, ll Mothesin-Law le deceaned or unemployod)

15. OCCUPATION

Homemaker.

SECTION XIX

1 FULL NAME (Last-Firal iddle)

RELATIVES BY BLOOD, MARRIAGE OR ADOPTION WHO EITHER (1) LIVE ABROAD.

(2) ARE NOT U.S. CITIZENS OR (3) WORK FOR A FOREIGN GOVERNMENT

TZ. RELATIONSHIP

None to my knowledge

4. ADDRESS OR COUNTRY IN WHICH RELATIVE RESIDES

5. EMPLOYED BY

3. AGE

6. CITIZENSHIP (Country)

7. FREQUENCY OF CONTACT

TE. DATE OF LAST CONTACT

1. FULL NAME (Las-First Middle)

2. RELATIONSHIP

3. AGE

4. ADDRESS OR COUNTRY IN WHICH RELATIVE RESIDES

5. EMPLOYED BY

3

6. CITIZENSHIP (Country)

Y. FREQUENCY OF CONTACT

8. DATE OF LAST CONTACT

1. FULL NAME (LaBi-First-Middle)

12. RELATIONSHIP

3. AGE

6. ADDRESS OR COUNTRY IN WHICH TELATIVE RESIDES

5. EMPLOYED BY

6. CITIZENSHIP (COURITY)

7. FREQUENCY OF CONTACT

8. DATE OF LAST CONTACT

1. FULL NAME (Laal-Firai Middle)

12. RELATIONSHIF

3. AGE

A. ADDRESS OR COUNTRY IN WHICH RELATIVE RESIDES

5. ENPLOYED BY

5

6. CITIZENSHIP (Country')

7. FREQUENCY OF CONTACT

B. DATE OF LAST CONTACT

SECTION XIX CONTINUED TO PAGE 13

60

6/00

---

## Page 16

14-00000

SECTION XIX CONTINUED FROM PAGE 12

6. SPECIAL REMARKS, IF ANY, CONCERNING RELATIVES NOTED IN SECTION XIX ABOVE

NA

SECTION XX

RELATIVES BY BLOOD, MARRIAGE OR ADOPTION WHO ARE IN THE MILITARY OR CIVIL

SERVICE OF THE UNITED STATES

1. NAME (Last-Firal Middle)

Z. RELATIONSHIP

3. AGE

4. CITiZENSHIP

106

Bro-in-law

24

U.S. Of America

5. ADDRESS (No., Street, City, State, Coumiry)

6. TYPE AND LOCATION OF SERVICE (Il known)

U.S. Army Depot, Pueblo, Colorado

1. MAME (lant-Firne-Middla)

Z. RELATIONSHIP

4. CITIZENSHIP

6

2

2nd Cousin

1U.S. of America

5. ADDRESS (No., Street, City, State, Country)

6. TYPE AND LOCATION OF SERVICE (11 known)

Air Station,

Quantico, Virginia

1. NAME (Last-Firat-Middle)

Aviation -, Ist Sgt

USMC

2. RELATIONSHIP

3. AGE

CITIZENSHIP

3. ADDRESS (No., Stroet, City, State, Country)

6. TYPE AND LOCATION OF SERVICE (Il enown)

SECTION XXI

REFERENCES, ACQUAINTANCES, AND NEIGHBORS

I. LIST FIVE CHARACTER REFERENCES, NOT RELATIVES, IN THE U.S., WHO KNOW YOU INTIMATELY

NAME

(Last-Firal-Middle)

BUSINESS ADDRESS

(No.., Stroot, City and Stato) en

RESIDENCE ADDRESS

(No., Street, City and State)

Mr. and Mrs.

Texas

Reve

Austine T'exas

108

Mre

Arretin

Taroo

Боб

ALexanaria, vIrRinta

Mr.

Cple

NAME

(Last-Firat-Middio)

washingtone Dele

Dept, of Agriculture

Washington, D.C.

The American Embassy,

Lima, Peru

Lima, Peru

MIC J.S. WHO KNOW YOU SOCIALLY - NOT RELATIVES, SUPERVISORS OR EMPLOYERS

BUSINESS ADDRESS

RESIDENCE ADDRESS

(No., Stpeet, City and Stale)

(No., Street, City and Stato)

Department of State,

Washington 25, Dale

Washae

Delo

756

Dos

MT a

Mr.

Miss|

Miss

Department of State,

Washington 25, D.l.

w010

рб

Washa, Dot.

Boulder. Colorado

Mrs.

Hima, Peru

NAME

(Last-First-Middle)

J. LIST THREE NEIGHBORS AT YOUR MOST RECENT NORMAL RESIDE

BUSINESS ADDRESS

(No., Street, City and Stato)

ESIDENCE ADDRES

No., Street, City and Star

Miss

106

ol.

Fredericksburg

Lt.

and

MrSa

D 50

Virginia

об

- 13 .

61

---

## Page 17

14-00000

• 14.

819 o

SECTION XXII

CLUBS, SOCIETIES, AND OTHER ORGANIZATIONS

NOTE: List names and addresses of all clubs, societies, professional societies, employee groups or organizations of any kind

(Include membership in, or support of, any organization having headquarters or branch in a foreign country) to which you

• belong or have belonged.

NAME AND CHAPTER

DATES OF MEMBERSHIP

FROM

Spanish Club

10

0

Distributive Education Clu

ADDRESS

(Number. der 0s.

City,

State, Country)

High School,

Texas

High School,

OTexas

Baptist Youth Organization

Church,

Texa

Septes1954

Sept.9:

1954

1957

TO

May

1955

May

1955

May

1957

SECTION XXIII

RESIDENCES FOR THE PAST 15 YEARS

ADDRESS - LAST RESIDENCE FIRST

(Number, Street, City, Stato, Country)

Alexandria Virginia

Fredericksburg, Virginia

08

Peru

Calle

Ilma Potosi,

USIS Buildinge 3rd & 4th Floors.

La Paz, Bolivia

"F" Company, Headquarters Marine

Gorps,

Henderson

Hall, Washington 25. D.C.

Cold Weather Training Battalion, Pickle Meadows,

Bridgeport, California

Marine Corps Base, 29 Palmse California

Marine Corps Recruit Depot, San Diego, California

Marine Corps Base, Camp Pendleton, California

Texas

l'exas

• Texas

INCLUSIVE DATES

FROM

TO

March, 1961 jAug, 1961

Deca, 1960 Mara, 1961

Jan 1960 NOv., 1960

NOVe 1958 Janee 1960

Sept. e1958 Novex1998

Janae 1958 AUge, 1958

Decei 1957 Janse 1958

JulJee1957 Nov=s 1957

NOV.e 1957 DeSer 1957

May 1956

July, 1957

Septee 1955 May, 1956

1946

Septer 1955

---

## Page 18

14-00000

- SECTION XXIV

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION

IZATION WHICH ADVOCATES OR TEACHES THE OVERTHROW OF THE GOVERNMENT OF

THE UNITED STATES BY

THEIR RIGHTS UNDER THE CONSTITUSTON TE TAE UNITES SPATES BY FORCE OR VIOLENCE TO DENY PERSONS

2. IF YOU HAVE ANSWERED "YES" TO THE ABOVE QUESTION, EXPLAIN

YES

X NO

4. IF SO, TO WHAT EXTENT?

YES

NO

S. DOER USED NARCOTICSOU

YES

5. IF SO, TO WHAT EXTENT?

X NO

T. MAXFION DEY+S ACTV AMEMBER OF, OR SUPPORTED, OR HAD ANY CONNECTIONS WITH A FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE ORGAN-

XINO

IF ANSWER IS "YES", GIVE COMPLETE DETAILS.

8. DISOYMENT SINCE NAMES OF GOVERNMENT DEPARTMENTS, AGENCIES OR OFFICES TO WHICH YOU HAVE APPLIED FOR EM.

I served 4 years in the United States Marine Corps.

S. AGENCY ARE TELE NATE DATE ROYALE SONE AN INDESTIGATION OF YOU, INDICATE THE NAME OF THE

An investigation (I do not know by whom) was conducted prior

to my departure for Bolivia where I was attached to the American

ambassy.

This investigation took place during August and September

of 1958.

NOTE SPECIAL

INSTRUCTIONS

If your enswer is "YES" to the following Questions 10, 11 er 12, provido the information requested for each

vention on a separate, signed sheet and attach the sheet to this form in a sealed envelope.

vES

NO

IN SECORDT CAME OF COUSPECIAY ISSAGE COU ARONDATE, NATURE OF OFFENSE AND DISPOSITION OF CASE

1. HAVE YOU EVER ECARE ENCBE NOUR AND PROVIDE DATEST OF O

UNISHED UNDER MILITARY LAW OR RE

LATIONT IF SO, DESCRIBE

CCURRENCE ON SEPARATE SHEET IN A

CORDANCE WITH SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS ABOVE.

NO

YEs

NO

12. ARE THERE ANY UNFAVORABLE INCIDENTS IN YOUR LIFE

CORDANCE WITH SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS ABOVE.

SECTION XXY

PERSON TO BE NOTIFIED IN CASE OF EMERGENCY

T. NAME (First-Middle-Last)

2. RELATIONSHIP

Mrs. Daniel Flores

Wife

3. HOME ADDRESS (No., Streol, Cily, Zone, State, Country)

.. HOME PHONE NOSO

Washington

D.C.

8. BUSTER LEABLE, CHy. Z070, Stato, Commiry) - INDICATE NAME OF FIRM OR 8. BUSINESS PHONE NO. & EXT.

Washington 6, D.C.

ABEE. ENEXUSE DE HELLTH OR OTHER REASON S.

SPREASE SO STATE

MAY ALSO BE NOTIFIED. IF SUCH NOTIFICATION

In all cases wife:

Relative,

Mrs.

108

Texas

10)

Telephone

• 15.

43

---

## Page 19

14-00000

a.81 - 1

SECTION XXVI

CERTIFICATION

YOU ARE INFORMED THAT THE CORRECTNESS OF ANY STATEMENT MADE IN THIS APPLICATION

WILL BE INVESTIGATED.

have read and understand the Instructions. I Certity that the foregoing answers are true and correct to the best of mi

snowledge and belief. I agree that any misstatement or omission as to material fact will constitute grounds for immedien

Sis. Ce Tie 18, Se in 10011.

Title 18,

Section 1001)

1. DATE OF SIONATURE

2. SIGNATURE OF APPLICAN

allisis

1961

• SIGNED AT (City and State)

E OF WITNESS

Stoc

Washington, District of Columbia

aucyle Cooler

NOTE: Use the following space for extra details. Reference each continued item by section

sign your name at the end of the added material. If additional space is required use extra pages the same size as this

page and sign each such page.

MARITAL STATUS:

Item #4, Section XII

06

September 1, 1956 to October 6, 1956.

Married to

in Portland, Oregon, by Circuit Court Judge.

Used name

until November I, 1960, when changed to Flores.

06

FATHER-IN-LAW: Item #5, Section XVII

Short name for Raymond

GEOGRAPHIC AREA KNOWLEDGE AND FOREIGN TRAVEL: Item #1, Section VI

Argentina

2 July 1959 to 3 July 1959

Travel

Panama.

10 November 1950 to 13 November 1958 Travel

SEE ATTACHED SHEET FOR PERTINENT INFORMATION RELATIVE TO STEP-MOTHER.

1961.

Signed at Washington, D. C., this

flk day of September,

camel Dan

Flores

---

## Page 20

14-00000

- :

ATTACHMENT TO FORM NO. 444 - PERSONAL HISTORY STATEMENT

Section XV - STEPMOTHER

06

Full name:

Flores

Living: Yes

Other Names She Has Used: None to my knowledge

Current Address:

I Texas

Date of Birth:

December 8, 1914

об

Place of Birth: Mexico

Citizenship:

Mexican

If Born Outside U.S. - Date of Entry: December 8, 1922

Place of Entry: Unknown

Former Citizenships:

None

Occupation:

Homemaker and Missionary

Present Employer:

Never served in Military or other Government service to a sonoledge

This paper is

attached to and hereby made a part of Form No. 444.

Lavial Pilom

Daniel Flores

65

3lpd

---

