# 104-10169-10070

## Page 1

104-10169-10070

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEST

= 15

PRIOZ TO FIUNG

1. Fui in SerL 2. 09 bacio Delaca bace Lap and

fonard 1o FID.

2 Desso? toat cover steel unlese il records

signincant astel taioa o commenis requir-

ing preservation

FROM:

10:

ACTION BRANCH

l' Ele no and title shown are

a0 proper.

sert proper lile na belil ath iwati Al:65

umeat to RID/AN.

PROPER FILE NO.

RIDIAN

TO: ALE ADDRESSEES

PILL IN SECTION 1 ON BACK. IF APPROPRIATE

COMMENTA

TO

поом

RECRIVRO

DATE

0.0.

SRB

OFFICER'#

INITIAL$

2009.9909

6D46.294.

2668

FA

3.

C1 /ORSIVE

7180

гарн.

дорія

4

AF/Cops/CI

AF/4

10.

11.

12.

13.

1 de.

16.

10.

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

ND/PI

TRACE

ARQURAT

DATE MICHOPIGMEO

ABT SINA

1449

FICS TIFLE

"!1509

121E"4 55 21

#ID1500

+010271141

LUCUMENY LATE

87 MAR 1965

[NECAT

22

po go

13627

---

## Page 2

14-00000

DISPATCH

CLASSICATION

SECRET

80

Chief, NE

INFO

12-1

FHOM

RUSECT

Chiel of Station, [cairo] MUB

Slavid Graham DU BOIS aka David Graham McCANNS

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

701-271141

PROCESSING ACTION

MARKED FOR INDEXINO

NO INDEXING RECHIRED -

OARY QUALIFIED DESK

CAN JUDGE INDERING

MICROFILA

FIle

Attached herewith la a letter to the editor of the Esyptian Cazette

fran David Grahan DU BOIS, published in the 26, February 1965. issue.

Previous

corrempondence with Headguarters has noted his ant1-U.S. articles in al-Guy-

hurriyah.

2e A contact report on DU BOIS fran Deby K. ZINBLER, dated 16 January

1963, was carded for Station flies.

There is no notation that it was passed

to Headquarters, and 1e therefore included for your unes

DFOB: 9 March 1925, Seattle, Washington

PPT s U.3. Passport #1303551 issued 4 February 1959, New York.

ADDR: 33 Kasr al-N1l Street, Apartment #4, Floor 13, Cairo.

MOTHER. Shirley G. DU BOIS

P.D. Box 2797, Acera, Ghana

FATHER: Schadrack McCANNS

Deceased (was born in South Carolina)

*TEs Clarice JOHNSON

Married 1 May 1948; divorced May 1950

Index 110699-1959, City Government, New York Countys Subject,

applying as David Graham MeCANNS,

ake Grahen McCANNS, requested per

mission to change his name to David Grahan DU BOIS. He was granted

porniesson to change his name on 17 Auguet 1959

On 1l danuary 1963, pursuant to instruction on the Departiet of

State, DU BOIS' passport was limited to direct and Inmediate travel to

the U.B, oniy. At that time he applied for a new passport in the name

of DU Bols, the application was accepted and forwarded to the Depart-

ment for deciaion. DU BOIS 10 presently employed by the Middle Kant

Ventures Horrioe, Calro. He deseribes hinuel! es a Journalist.

Creen in rickends.

Dintribe 0& 2 - Chief, NE

SARRY

CROSS RAPIRINCE TO

DIWATCH SYMBOL AND NUMIN

222l4015 1 3627

CLABIPICAIION

GEORET

f Laura W. BROKHS

221-224141

ĐAId

MAR 2 7 1965

NGO MIC NUMME

---

## Page 3

14-00000

Letter to the

Editor

MALCOLM X

THE CRUEL

and Inseme",

essassination of militarst

President John F. Kennedy, la

one more dramatic expres

mosphere of violence sweep

Ling the United Stater at

Amerioa.

Voice of Amertes and

born entarley

aM.J.tONECA-13627

at

the

nollct

noment

WECKETEN SICETTEN

oll

tha

tate

and

Organisation

Unitr

Annembly hold un Salre

uly,

fruatrstich and hope

the point opera retent

ne longar andore.

uatlance

turning-tha-other-@noek. We

the

right of dell antence

whataver

tha

int eatallation

agninat our par

no malter what

NO-Une

WA."

shuidle

mieten

the

chuthar

gt1111)9e+fe

UM.

and

BRUR REE BREST MEER

rafiant

nf

tha

tallie te provide

6009911013108

Aleiteraluat

prileutiur

+201-371141

---

## Page 4

Daintite

387004

0Đ$, 1000, 000

Take

a Che fact that Makolm & dies

the

hands

of anolet

Afre

American

The atnoophire

hated crealed agalast.

Maleoim

by

and

BAu

and latormation

irtesponsible

11 88

An dia

New

refusa!

with

maximum

protection

repeasedly

treatened

attempled

violence

resible

this heinoste

Lather

then

Crime chels

and

influence

on

divid those

struggling

for

and human

rigats,

media

Information a coim &

ИВГ®

palating

kind

Immora sicked

fanatle

power

extre

whose

removal from

the

rican scane would be a bles

at toad

of protecting

Afro-Americans.

who

those

are

Ester

their basle right

or-

12-

from

racist

hoodlums

are

aisy

Tole Norto not sout

and Bouth

Nort unreatonins

undreds

darker

broth

with la read.

Toes in the henrts of count-

ot

the ate

struggle.

the

death

mericans of all

fact

life are

rapidly

reach.

point of no returna®.

Ut*

way

Is found.

and 90013,

daily violence mutfer-

their

he tens of thousand

ВОШ

---

