# 104-10072-10185

## Page 1

9104-10072-10185

CUSSIFICATIOR

TO

DISPATCH

Chief. WHD

COB, UMASH

MORO LMED

DEC 6 4 1950

FROM

Chtetect Station, Habana

OperatIonal//AMNeT

CUCUMENT ENCROHLM SERVISE

Corversation with ArJuTe a

CTION RECTURED

one; for intormation only

DISPATON SYMBOL AND NO

KHA- 6718

LANTEES FRE NO

UNKNOWN

Bleld Bile No. 10-201-753

DATE

24 August 1960

MARKED FOR INDEXINO

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

INDEXING CAN BE JUDGED

BY QUAUFIED HQ. DESK ONLY

On 19 August 1960 A/LUT"- told the case officer that he hed

obtained additional detailo and information regarding the anti-CASTRO

miltery with which he was in contactor aMule 1o in contactaith this

group through Roberto vIA, who le married to Araur 16 ntecob MesA

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

2. According to Awult-lo gources the old nilitary groups have

Do Not Reproduce

been organized and now have approdimtely 10,000 men on whom they can

rey in the suture to act vely oppose fide castlosthese men are

aleged to be free of then taint of BWISTA buttere enlisted sin the

m tary during the caust me sis the orgenization of the growD has

been landled In part by Ex-Lt VASALLO (nu)y unon AMUlET deser-bes

as an efficient organtzer but lacke the Stature for rent leadership.

3. AUrD-I said that some time ago this military group sent an

undentified ropresentative to blami to contact Antonio VARONA and offer

him the support of their idlitary group. VARONA is allegedly reported

to have said that this group would be a valuable addition to the anti-

CASTRO forces in the "Blocke." (Undoubtedly 10 referring to the FDR).

However, VARDNA 1s alleged to leve told the representative that Ito

VASALTO was not completely acceptable to the "Blocke" because while a

good organizer he did not have the backing and stature needed to represent

the nilltary group In the "Blogke".

greed to havo ta it. Col, Enrique Perez

I to hove bently con Enrique Perez oNTO presens them in the

"Elocke"- ANJUlE-1 said that MONTCYA's name has been cubmitted to the.

"Dlocke" but that to date no word lias been received from the "Blocke" as to

REPRODUCTIONS

MIGROFICHE

DESTROY AFTER USE

whether NOW OYA is acceptable to them and will be given a position of

representation in the "Plocke" or not. MONTOYA was described as an

x-nilitary man who served under Col. CABENILLA and was asked to retire

during BATISTA a time because of his umillingness to compronise his

integrity in acts of corruption and graft.

171,.

ArJint-I also orid that he lad been told by hEytA,that, the

5/SR

69871

---

## Page 2

0000

ER QUANTED NO DESE ONLY

15: On 19 August 1960 AunT told the case officor that ho had

obtained additional details and information regarding the ent -CASTRO.

According to AUll-l's source, lthe old military Broupo bave

been organized and now have approximately 10,000 men on whom they can

in the future to actively oppose Didel, CASINO These men ere

alleged to be Iree of the taint of BATISTA but were enlisted in the

maitary curing the matista regime the organizat on of the from hap

been handled in pert by Ex-ItS VASALLO (nu, uhan AyJUre 1 deseribes

as an efticient organizer but lacks the stature for real leadershipe

3 oUrs said that some time ago this military group sent an

unidentified reprosentative to Mard to contact Antonio VARONA and offer

him the support of their idlitary group. VARONA lo allegedly reported

to have seld that this group would be a valuable addition to the entr

CASTRO forces in the "Blocke," (Undoubtedly lo referzing to the YUR).

Hovever WARN lo plleged to have told the representative that it.

VASALLO was not completely acceptable to the "Blocke" because while a

good organizer he did not have the backing and otature needed to represent.

the milltary group in the "Blogka".

4. Subsequently the various military groupa are aleged to teve

agreed to havo exolt. Col. Unrigue Perest MONTOYA represents them in the

"Blocke" AwUis-2 said that MONTOYA"o nome has been submitted to the

"slocke" but that to date no word lias been recelved from the "Blocked, as to

whether HONOTA is ecceptable to them and wlin be given e position of

representate on in the Blockon or not. MONTCYA das described as an

ex mustary nan who served undor Col. TABETITILA and was asked to rethre

during BATISTA e tire because of his umillingness to compromise kla

intesrity in acts of corruption and graft.

AJU also said that he, had been told by Haki, that the

"Blocko" In Habena veg now being directed byteor hanaid mAters

Minister of Public vorks and the 26 ot July leader, In the labana areas

Ho paid diat David Sartooth atonosed-OrG leader, vas heading the workers

in the "Blocke Muilt-lalso reported that the group of men controlled

by exalajor Foule ChiVAS are also a part of the "Blocko"

"BLoQue!

6 MUTal seed to tall told hin that all the var out it stary.

groups are now waiting for is acknowledgement from the executive committee

of the "Blocket that thely egreed upon representative MONTUYA, le acceptable.

HEVIA Said that the militery groups vero in possession of sone arms and

armunition but lacked supplies for a full scale oporation.

WH13|cu

DeposeD

Gerald L. Gardyne

Distribution:

S-Heodquarters

1 FIST

2/23 August 1960

201-275643

201 - 275642

#KHA 6718

FORM

1657 53

(40):

USE PREVIOUS EDITION:

REPLACES FORMS.

$1.28: 51-29A AND 51:29

WHICH ARE OBSOLETE.

ECLASSIFICATION

S-D-C-T-E-T

PAGE NO

CONTINUED

EPRODUCTIONS

ER USE

MICROS

DES

---

