104-10169-10178

metal ~~

* CmonrPA y Pes, Petro L. coon
BY ait

conte sguero, tute

en ete Baty Diem, Finn.

4 os Docreter 1955
To Joint author af 8 renort on revlutiorery moting Jd by Pidel CASTRO tus at the

Li Flagler Theater tn ‘tent on % Lev, 1058, The rerort vas eubltchad Jr Bohente, Subj,
Preven Faas of Batiete, 10 t+ sceratary gerere] of the “unified® Ortotenos of

Baa} CD. “enartedly, Se {8 foresst among cuvworters of Fide] CASTR) within thet
| Ortotene ier. AL tha afarenertionnd eating (n Vint, CES* sroke at the gattoring,
i

kanorted to be a Lolyguard accowanying CAST to tas U.S. in 19 the
Colmuntet Party L Cuda propesed est -ViLehk
thonal Congress for Pesce and Dencracye A netition enloraing the
; Organitatlon was sighed by a List of tniiviiais described as Sea
_ Bymethisere, incliling Luis CITE Acueroe

Doparted Ted 6 April for iiant, Eacarted-to aizport by Arrantine deb tut SDMad-J96L
. Status was not that of potitionl asyles being given safeconduct. In other 6 april 60
</.° words, he departed ar ordinary Cuban citizen, Anticpated that subj will engage in much
3 misty Line ho vill teke 18 that Raul CASTRO and Che GUREARA au vel! as Cosrumiste haw
3 Pygo} CASTRO'S revolution, fs vill etress his oun eloss relationahtp ‘u/CASTRO and
j eistots gerlier ehieced etreng anli-Commiet attitatans

a new argentzation called

“ranet Yegtonn: ire seit castT. rebel ary, ube Steed
Corih raw aetivitie . 3h, Fehy vs Yr. pp nc. 1059, issued >
+ Sandese 2? Aue 9, arrive’ Pacy fron ch lo Cet en reute Angola,
Mate “ies fer Marcansuitta 1 ee! bagra € search © fet res
porto! ca perstive, Nes is te bs

<2 : ‘J
Seb$ ayrected at the airport in Qua! 1% City on 26 Jen on the baste 83/425, '

; tap PH
ef Entersanion that Subj Ae a agen sof Fidel CASTRO fa eontant et Odes
ARE exeadtes of the Oovk of, Sua On 0 Jone departed te Salv,

HGS febg,.m oldiosr of fertena, bas Lecce aici in Uke. rev. antivites tee eis

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce
