SECRET

23 April 1996

Memo for Record

Subject: Addendum to ARRB Letter to DCI dated 2 April. 1996
re ARRB determination from meeting of 18-19 March~

Reference: Phone call (23 April 96) from Mary McAuliffe ,

1. At their 16-17 meeting, the ARRB voted to reconsider
the documents listed below (from the 18-19 meeting) and .
accepted the. proposed Agency position. 7 7

a. Protect name in the following documents

104-10001-10015
104-10003-10100
104-10005-10059
104-10005-10169
104-10005-10182
104-10021-10093

b. Replace Chief of Station”) with “CIA employee” or

“CIA station” (see example) :

104-10003-10064

J. Barry Harrelson

SECRET



13-00000

MEMDRARDUM FOR: Mr. J. Lee Rankin,“
President's Comdsston :
Assassination of President Kennedy

as aii Loe
oR at My. SUBJECT: ° Discussion Between Chairman Khrushchev end
nae : ir. Drew Pearson re Les Harvey Oswald — Meo.

Sduring which I informed you. thet Mr.
7 hed a L5-minate conversation in Cairo on
aa Khrushchev.

2. The CIA [empl ower | in Cairo hes reported a con-
_-versation which he and his wire held with Mr. and Mra. Drew
Pearson in Cairo on 2h end 25 Maye Mrs. Pearson is « cousin
of the wife of [rhe CUA employee] Nothing in the cable
quoted below anoutd be construea as Obviating any desirability
the Commission may feel about securing testixoy directly from
Mr. and dre. Pearson... We areforwardingAt:to you solely for.
the parpose of placing in your hands at the earliest moment
information which has been provided to us in this privileged
fashion. :

3. Ths masage troal the Shed, mes Cairo reada
as follows:

“Hrs. Drew Pearson provided on the evening of
2h May the first informetion on the Osweld portion
of the corversstion with Chairman and Mrs. Khrushchov.
Mra. Khrushchev opened the conversation by inquiring
about Hre. Fennedy and expreasing concern about and
affection for her. Mrs. Pearson reassured ber, saying
that Mrs. Fennedy had borne up remarkably well and was
4m good health. (Most of this conversstion was in .
English which Mrs. Khrushchev spesks fairly well, with
some assistance trum Mirashcher! interpreter, who had
served in the pant as interpreter for the Pasrsons
and who helped arrange the meeting.) This led into
Mra. Narushchey! inquiry about their watual friend,
the wife of Chief Justice Warren, and thence into

Spyor: Brent] cobA oF CHT

ESSER ros are -

2° gosrmnTs

Lou =< )COos ~1OO bY

