# 104-10247-10109

## Page 1

104-10247-10109

RETURNTO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

27

fROY

15-2

CLASSIFIEO NESSAGE

SECRET

PERSON UNIT ROTIFICA

6:: 16.

ASIANGE SOFT

1 Joey

REPIOSUATION PREM.DiTED 1$ 1 3

is

ACTION

THO

VR, FILE, 0-=P DIP

13 $

1954-7

duels secreten crease

E CRET 0317162

15-4

15-9

20-7

PRIORITY DIR INFOLPARD(RONE) CITE (MADR) 2998

MOB

ISTASITED KEYWAY PBRUMEN AMWHIP

INT

J0S

E. TS

SS

TERS

AR

CA

XS

REE A DIR 81836

26-1

& (PARD9a13

(72225)

SEC

I359565173094

c CADR2982 ("72254)

D ROME 4919, PARA 3 (I/293)

Dir 84069

E (OSMA) 18,423, PARA 10

1. RE REQUEST REF A.

20 WISH POINT OUT REF E SPELLED OUT PROBLEMS ENCOUNTERED TRYING MON-

ITOR AMLASH 2, AMLASH 5 AND AMBIDDY 1, CONTACIS AND ACTIVITIES SPAIN AND

THEIR INVOLVEMENT AMLASH 1 AND ANWHIP 1O THESE

15-ALACTIVITIES CERTALLY OF

INTEREST OVERALL PBRUMEN OPS AND RELATED STATION ACTIVITIES. RECENTLY WE

REPORTED AMBIDDY I'S TRIP ROME PRESUMABLY TO SES ANLASH I THIS CONFIRMD

BY REF D WHICH ALSO REPORTED AMWHIP I ROXS AND IN CONTACI ASLASH I.

3. TO FURTHER ADO COMPLEXITY OVERALL OPÈS PICTURE AMLASH 2 AND S

ISVOLVED WITH SOME (STATION TARGETS. AILASH S HAS BEEN REPORTED BY CUALT

(PBRUMEN OFFICER STATIONED MADR AND STATIO:) ASSETS AS TRAVELLING TO ZAR-

AGOZA, SPAIN WITH ANOTHER PBRUVEN OFFICER. AYLASH 3 WAS RECRUITED

(8) 98 AÑUHIP I TO ASSIST AMLASH OP AT LEAST HE VAS GIVEN SW COMMO 3Y

.

SSCRET

---

## Page 2

14-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

IN 7222≤ PAGE 2

AWHIP I TO WRITE AYSHIP I POPRINS AND JAS RECFIVED MONEY FRONG

AMWHIP 1.

ALSO ATLASH 2' AND 3 AND ARBIDDY 1 KELL KNOW GUSPORT I WHO WORKING ON

SENSITIVE OP. HOS AVARECGUSFORT 1 VELL KNONN ANNHIP I AND UNTIL RECENTLY

IN HIS EXPLOY (SEE REF B>.

15-2

• 4o WHILE

WE HAVE NO NEED KNOW DETAILS AÑLASH OP DO FEEL (MADR AND OTHE

INTERESTED (STATIONS)SHOULD

BE ADVISED WHEN HIS "CONTACI MAN" AMWHIP 1

IN AREA IF ME TRAVELLING ON KUBARK EUSINESS. IT WOULD ASSIST IN MONI-

TORING ACTIVITIES AND COULD TIE IN WITH OTHER PBRUMEN OPS. AFTER ALL

A'WHIP I IS PETTY MUCH A "WHEELER AND DEALER" TYPE AND NOT A KUBARK

LATEST DEVELOPPUENIS ARE(AUSPORT I CONTACIED BY AMLASH 3 MORN-

TOLD AMLASH I STILL ROME WITH

• LAS 31 NOT SATISFIED WITH SILENCER FURNISHED BY AMBIDDY I (SEE REF C)

AMLASH 3 SAID AM-

AND AMBIDDY I SECRETARY FLEW PBPRIME GET ANOTHER. AMLASH 3 CLAIMED

AMLASH I VERY NERVOUS AND PHONING HIM DAILY. AMBIDDY I RETURNED MADR

FROM ASTURIAS WHERE VISITED RELATIVES AND HOLDING FUND RAISING MEETING

NITE 3 FEB. AMLASH 2 FLEW TO MADA FROM BARC 1 FEB RETURNED BARC 3 FEB.

SECRET

SECRET

4/a0

---

