# 104-10072-10314

## Page 1

104-10072-10314

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION

PROCESSING ACTIOP

SECRETRY BAT

MARKED FOR INDEXING

INFO.

FROM

Chief.

HOLTHE

Chief.

MOUSE; Chief, sUR Division;

chief of Station. London

Chief, ICRIPIT/London

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED DESK

CAN JUDGE INDEXING

SUBJECT

MICROFILM

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES.

References:

ORPA-1058, dated 17 April 1968

reports that the assassination of DI. Martin

Luther King bad a dramtic and profoundly disturbing impact upop

The rome foale loder

(of the Sce girls In Pariatle to the. U.S. several days later

in order to be there the action is-". She does not plan to

retarn but was very impressed by her stay in Paris saying that

she will try to persuade other SNCC members to avail themselves

of the yaluable experience to be gained from working with the

Tarious revolutionaty groups in Paris., As we foresaw in Reference.

this has left the succ group in the joint hands of IDENTITIES I

and S of Reference.

Invitations have poured in to speak at

various neetings and it appears likely that IDENTITY A of

Ross present one at many or these meetings-

Importance in, the Black comnity in Paris is indicated by the

prominent place accorded her in the memorial service for Dr.

King. (Sae under separate cover attachment 1) - Needless to say.

this renders all the more pressing an early decision on the

proposal contained in Reference-

2. We call your attention to the attached clipping from

the 24 April Le Monde which reports on a press conference held

by James: Poreras, head of the International Affairs department

of SNCe, to announce a meeting supporting Black Foveg to be

held at lia Mitualite on 29 April and to be addressed by Jean

Paul Sartre. QRPEOTO/1 told

hat there had been some

Attachments:: 2

I - Memorial Service Program (u/s/c)

? - Le Monde clipping h/w

Distribation:

/CONTINUED. /

me. - C/HOMUSE w/atts

1 - C/EIR W/atts

ATEN SYMBOL AND NUMBER

ORPA: 1097

• CLASSIFICATION

DATE

7536

29 10r1: 1968

HOS FILE NUMBER

1006148/3

---

## Page 2

14-00000

CLASSIFICATION

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

ICH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

SECRETRYBAT

CEPA- 1097

confusion regarding Sartre's willingness to speak.

He had

originally accepted to speak at a culturally oriented "gala"

to be held at the Theatre National Populalre and there was

a question regarding his willingness to switch to this more

political atnosphere. The "gala" (see earlier report, paragraph

C Of OEPA 918) to mme hein nlanned for some time in May.

IDENTITY C Of Reference is reported by

to be

working with Foreman in planning for the Mutual

She is so busy that she has temporarily left her chila with her

mother.

IDENTITY C of Reference is also said to be working on

another project-possibly involving travel which is confidential

at this point.

AErIan 3• MASLOTT

---

## Page 3

14-00000

HEREWITH ATTACHMENT

TO: OE2A-1097

MEEZ NG EX FAVEUR

DE & POUVO. NOIR »

LE 29 AVAL A LA MOTUALITE

Ali cours d'una conférence de

Dresse

connée lundi & Paris,

M.

Jomes Foreman, ancien président

Cornité

de

coordination

aujourd'hui

responsable

faires

internationales

C.C..

annoncé

qu'un

meeting

en faveur du « pouvoir.noir' & 31-

rait lieu à la Mutualité, le 29 avril

20 heures. Outre M.

Foreman,

qui est égaiement « ministre des

affaires étrangères » du parti des

Panthères notres,

saire, Daniel

MVI.

Aimé Cé-

Guérin,

Jean-Paul

Sartre et

Vercors

participeront

notamment à

ceste

réunion

au

cours de laquelle

deux

ront projetés

Now,

films

se-

AI-

rarez, et

JaZZ

de

S.

au cours

de

d'avant-garde.

sa conférence

da

presse, MM.

Foreman

évoqué le

meurtre du pasteur King.

ple du génocide

que

1 0707-

commet

contre les Noirs américains « la

société

blancize

istan, et l'adoption par le

Con-

grès

américain

interdisant

12

du

projet de loi

discrimination

ciale dans le logement.

Ce texte

de loi contient en

effet

un

cer-

tain nombre de clauses répressi-

ves visant,

selon M

Foreman,

« liquider » les leaders

noirs.

M.

lancé

un

appel

plusieurs

membres du parti des

Panthères

noires

emprisonnés

Oakland

(Californie), à la suite d'une fu-

sillade avec la

. police le 6 avril

dernier, qui a fait un mort - un

jeune Noir de

dix-sept ans.

---

## Page 4

14-00000

SEPARATE COVER ATTACHMENT 1 TO:

OEPA-1097

AMERICAN COMMUNITY SERVICE IN MEMORY

OF

THE REV. DR. MARTIN LUTHER KING

PASTOR - CIVIL RIGHTS LEADER - HOLDER OF THE NOBEL PEACE PRIZE

8 APRIL 1968

THE CALL TO WORSHIP - The Rev. Robert A. Spencer - American Church

Prayer

of Invocation

The Lord's Prayer

HYMN NO. 429 "For All the Saints" (vIS. 1-5)

Sine Nomine

PROCLAMATION OF THE PRESIDENT

The Hond Woodruff Wallner,

OF THE UNITED STATES

Chargé d'Affaire - U.S. Embassy

OLD TESTAMENT LESSONS - Canon James McNamee - American Cathedral

Psaim 90

Daniel 3:16-25

PRAYERS - Dean Sturgis Riddle - American Cathedral

MESSAGES FROM THE FRENCH CHURCHES

The Rev. Dr. Charles Westphal - Federation Protestante de France

MgsI•

Julien Gouet - Roman Catholic Diocese of

Paris

Pastor Henri Vincent- Eglise Baptiste de France

NEW TESTAMENI LESSONS - The Rev. Dr. Clayton E. Williams,

Pastor Emeritüs - American Church

Romans 8:31-39

Matthew 10:24-39

INTHEM " The Choir

"'Psalm of Penitence" From King David by Arthur Honegger

(Mercy on me, O Lord; pity,

according to thy great compas-

sion.

Wipe

away my transgression; cleanse me unto the depth

of my iniquity.

born.

In sin was I conceived.

In evil as I

And thou wouldst have a pure soul?

I have sinned.

Thou hast taught me thy wisdom, and I have failed in my weak-

nesso. Mercy on me, O Lord.")

/ TRIBUTE TO DR. KING - Mrs. Carline Polite - American Author

FROM AN ADDRESS BY DR. KING - Washington, D.C., Aug. 28, 1963

Read by Mr. Neville

Aurelius - Actor

PRAYERS - The Rev. Martin v.B. Sargent - American Church

HYMN - "'We Shall Overcome"

Negro Spiritual

We shall overcome, we shall overcome,

We shall overcome

some day•

Ch,

deep

in my heart I do

believe

That we shall overcome someday.

We shall live in peace, we shall live in peace,

We shall live in peace

some

day.

Oh, deep in my heart I do believe

That we shall live in peace some day.

We shall brothers be, we shall brothers be,

We shall brothers be

some day.

Oh, deep in my heart I do believe

That we shall brothers be some day,

RECESSIONAL - The 23rd Psalm

A book of condolences is in the chapel to your right

for those who wish to sign it..

---

