104-10177-10077|

ee

28 Rovenber 1962

: : o
of y
am
eS
MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD Ses
ps
SUBJECT:—-Biward ‘K. Moss gee
# 172646 : 3Sa
Boo
8Os
=

With reference.to paragraph 1, of the memorandum from the
Deputy Director of Sseurity, 7 November 1962, which refers to the
subject in connection with our request for a Covert Security Approval

to utilize his services as an adviser in thé public relations field,
I have made the following checks: :
8. NE Division: Coordination reveals that NE in
March 1959 requested a C3A in order to utilize the Subject
dn connection with his curreat position as public affairs
adviser (Nov. 1958) to the Indian Bnbassy.
b. Security Memorandum (copy sent to'CI/OA on 19 March 1959)
gave the following evaluation of the Subject:
1. Covert security approval was granted to NE for the

use of the Subject in his (then) préaent position of
dealing vith the Indian Mubassy - with the following

observations.

2. The current investigation of the Subject was favor-
However, some persons who know the Subject criti-

able.
cized him for “unscrupulous and unethical” business
They stated he has the reputation for “raid-

practices.
ing” accounts of other public relations firms.

In addition, it must be pointed out, that the Subject

30
had three tax liens from 1955-59 (one of $1043 perding
and unresolved in 1959 at the time of this investigation).



ate os

4h, In view of thie information, "it is recommended
EE that tho Subject be closely supervised and that he be
a made vitting, only after a time lapse sufficient to
afford the opportunity to demonstrate his integrity
and reliebility. In view of the above information,
dissemination of this information pertaining to the
Subject 1o limited to Headquarters officials on a need-
to-know basis".

es |
AG
1 fs Distribution:
Bs Orig. Subj. file
1 -‘chrono

CBR

