died

ortr=S—r—C——EnNn?Tv -———S>=?.

ceases EX - 786
: 5 December 1966

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD +H

sn:

* SUBJECT: "American Defectors to the USSR"

1, The attached material was part of a soft file entitled
“American Defectors to tre USSR", which was set up by SR/6 -
(Support) around 1960 and maintained by various SR components = *
until ca, 1963. The compilations were derived from a variety

of sources, and contain both classified and overt data,

2, In the fall of 1966, the files were turned over to CE
i Staff, In most instances, basic information was then abstracted
: for the US Defector Machine Program, In all instances in which
the material was unique, or represented a valuable collation effort,
it has been incorporated into the appropriate 201 file, along with
a copy of this memorandum,

: 3. It is suggested that any dissemination of this data should
. be coordinated with SB Division and with CI Staff (CI/MRO), in
: view of the frequently inadequate sourcing and of the fact that
disseminations have aiready been made through the US Defector

Machine Program,

Orig - CI/MRO

L-RD/FI >
1 - SB/RMO ivan
1L- CI/REA|

1- CI/R&A/chrono—

SECRET XO LES FIX

8

INTO CIA
RETURN Use Only

"Do Not Reproduce


WEESTER Kobert Eduan , 201-265472
23 Cetober 1928, Tiffin, tnio
Plastics expert; Hani Co, exleye

All entries through May 1962 cone from 201 unless otherwise noted.

Cirea G-1k Harch 1959, He made prelininary trip to “oscow in connection

with planning the Mant exhibit for next summerts Uc. faire

Circa 3 tay - late June 1°59, Lecond trip to Hoscow to help set up the
Rand exi ~ went steady wita Vera PL#TOWOVA, married, hostess at Hotel
Ukraina/corrector for a Soviet corresnenience sehool's English language de-
partment/inglish teacher at Medical Institute. She always met hia outside
so that. collearues would not know she datiny American, but somebody knew
because she usvally had to request permission to take evening off ~ ard she
alveys got it, Alsays nad the taxi leave her near byl not at her home, and
allowed nothing more than one Kiss, at end of evening. He told her his wife
didn't understand hin, etc., end that ne world cone beck to “oscow and marry
her. name also recorted 1s Vera ivinovna IVCHEXKO, probably her maiden-
nme, che night possibly be icentical with Vera PLOTLIKOVA, resorted in
00-3-3,1h0,059 of 2h Sept 155 (3#/05/si0) as a 20-year old elevator eperator®
at the Ukraina; she became very friendly with the source's wife (arssian-
speaking) but asked her not to show friendliness in pudlic, met her elsewhert
to tak, snared confidences, spoke poor to fvir bnglish.! .

3 July 1959, His third trip to the UCR. he had about six pieces of
lugeate, crammed with nylon hese, Elli Fitzgervlé records, epies of U.S.
magazines, ete., end several boxes of books, but "he did not taxe heavy
clothing because he felt this rijht look suspicious" $11 He nad no trouble
whatsoever with Loviet custons, tnd he went out vith Vera on his first might

backs

Cirea 11 Fly 1959. He Joined two high ~oviet exhibit officials at
their restarant table at the fsir and told then le wanted to defect. They
arran¢ed meetin: fed days later with coverasont refresentative POPOY and
SHISUKIN ~ for dinner at Praga & favorite nGB hanzout)}. BEN

Circa 15 July 1959, Uncer inflvence of vodka and food at Praja, wrote
letter to cuprene woviet requesting stay as Soviet citizen, A20Y sald not
to tell anyone, since answer xight take a while. Uaw hin guestionnaire to
take back to hotel anc fill ort: bioz plus reasons for defection,

ly avpust 1959. Sent his wife a telegram saving hed sold 100 units,
which untrue. *

Aucust 1959. Hore meetincs in private roors at nico restaurants. The
voviets Impressed on hin that if he stayed he covld never leave, uestioning
included debrisfinr by two ehenists to sez if he really 'covld make the spray
gun (for plastic coating jobs) ceiorstrated at Rand exhinit; jokes about
bu, ing him instead of pun,

Late av-ust 1959. Wife cabled hin asking if he coming trex. She wanted

to know so that sae could decide weether to put the children into usual

school (if he coming hore) or nove to her sirents' home and prt thes in
“Aled to :0 ahead anc out then into usual

school there (if ne not). He
SECRET acl 16S 472

school.
‘



=

ee sa

Pbepteriws 196%. PONV xt hin at etropel restaurant and told hin he
had teon aceapted. This was just after closin: of fair anc three days before
Rand rroun to leave for hore. P asked where he would like to work and when
} said ioccow inforned hin it wowld be Lenincrad. (Ww later tole .3. Kand
and-Gongvl Lnyder that be had been offered work in many cities.) |. requested
a vacations reacted. leeting with ; on subway steps:
arrarrements for W to get away from Rand croup without being noticed.

+a

10 Leotender 1969. Sent to Leningrad with intororeter volodya [see also
Riceiardelli casq. Ulven 1000 old rubles and proni'ed nore, tet by Aleksey
of Inturiat in Leningrad. tept changing hotels so that Marc rroup couldn't
get him. Had left note saying planned travel arcund 'iCcR before returning,
bot they saelled a rat and were trying to locate him anyway. Volodya stayed
there with him; went sightseeing, applicd for job at seninzrad <cientific
esearch Institute. He was allowed to call Jera, who cane right up and brought

the rest of his barrages affair began.

Circa nid-vetober 1959. Returned to Moscow.
1é Uctober 1959. HFA called US Embassy to say that W hed assumed Soviet
citizenship.

17 October 1959, Confrontation meeting at ‘oscow OVIR, with Hane and
Snyder present, Cewspaper revort said it was esotional scee at “mbassy and
taat « kuut said ho had not yet received Soviet passport, bet tis probably
wrong. True story seems be that s siined expatriation forn, kept his U.S.
passnort mvertheless (on pretext that ne didn't have it with ain, yageh he
reslly did), aml followed Covict inetructions in telling Gnyaer trat he had
received woviect passport on 21 Septenter (wiich he Indn't), hac ceZected
for political reasons (which he didn't), etc, Accordins to infometion in
CI/Sic Liles, Snyder said that the only discrepancy between 4's story and
Exbassy's facts aas that ‘ie seened horestly i; nurant of tuo pom calls he
supposedly made to Kand office in -wscow. ie said he might aave avthorized
made in bis nese, ote that vot calls purportesiy received
viet emoloyee Galina [vanovna XSDNTKLATA wnile she alone in office.

Qctomer 1959. 4 Vashineton Post article of 21 May 1&7 sale that he
chanved his mint after only three months in the Ucu and went to tre Embassy
for a... reentry permit, but thet it vas turned down and Ae rac to wait a
year to reasply. [In the light of other reports, Uiis seers rovenly

garbled an? to be'disregarded.]

ontation

Cirea 18 Gctober 1959, Innddiately or shortly arter tie co:
nectin', he ano Vera took off for a vacation in fochi.
Ly Sovember 1959, The +

Times wrote that he hac written his
parents ne was planning to marr:

‘arry a voviet Girl.

Circa 18 betmberxay Novender 1959, After a month in Sochi, ne and Vera
returned to settle in “ent 7) vera was nis assistant ant 2
according to Rand (how woulo ie know ? 7 she fot about 2000 r-
He was assigned to make the spray cun, at a salary of 2 00 a co:
seni~cnnual boms of 500-600 rubles this was equal to the salar:
enief “f Lab ¥5 where he worved, His only duernent vas a sin fron GIR
seying that he had applied for a vssport. They lived at uorcratevskiy
Sxnaneskzxmseex8223 Prospekt hovss (4, mt 18, us PE -FOOR

SECRF



& fee ett
Heke Cit
Na li Dud
posi, ty

Abe teat das

ae



| SECRET ~~ :

apartrent vith Baths

Late Decerber 1959 or early Yaz ary 1960, seceived coviet internal

passporte .
27 Jamary 1%0, Received 6 Lecenber letter fron his father telling hin

his notler now Tn Rental hosoital because of his defection and reminding
hin of responsibility for his entliren, ete. He deciced co hom brt told no ont.

eh 1960, He wrote father ascizr help to retyrm hone and asking
why a Tater hadn't replied to his S February letter (which the father had
never gotten).

13 and If barch 190, He wrote his fatcer that the farily should come
visit hin tn the to ort this tine Rand advised the father to get W's
phone menber so thet they covld tele to hin,

1 Aort] 1960, Rani revorted recetvine a wire fron ws civing his phone
in ientngrad as U-23705. ‘his was paon: at lab, where father callod hin 2 Apr.

5 April 1960. ‘i wrote his fether that he would be in fescow for the
y Lay celecrations igs hedl epee ia sroassy. he felt certain of re-
terning to the i... and told fatner not to core visit hia after all.

24 Anvil 1:40, Mand telephoned \., who contiraed desire return U.S.

wn: 1Sf0, Volodya hee srrened invitetfon for Wane Vera to Moscow
fo tention F

parade, '2, Went.

bila Lf, He visited Lio. Le oyy *
uards vecame of American anv
exit visa. Information in CI/SI ids that b said at this interview
that he had recently made a cpeech to s larce avdlence on way he left the
Claims sac nothing derogatory to U.c. sias tol apesch recorded for
we rad! ust.

yestine invitations necessary for Soviet
tan anoye!", Tera
t, walen she did,

19€0, He wrote father
Told vera aio Mat
a vent had to avrrove

y it wewlentt be granted

Uwe 166, Rand was back

Father sent. mtnenticated invitation letters.
bay trip. till no mention

cetetls of
U-2}anich

all atovt freeze(cased by

“arcte fat

68

aes cahen vhe left the.

days later,
not. divorced

LAO. Davcater
Ty tape Fe @'d not int

+ first wife,

From

ust 1340.

SECRET ;


~~ SECRET = ~

Seteber 1940, Exit pernit denied,

-* fenrer 1961, anc Vera vacationed at Seach near Aira. Vera received
final divorce from first husband.

Seevst 2061, ‘I ande second exit arplication.

This was the dato «i received exit persit, according
and. (Ci/SIG files)

2 harch_ 1962, % wrote parents that he did not hyve much money saved
ant alt need It for oseow stay. (cI/SIG) ,

23 Horch 1967, Clevelond Plain tealer article said that when he last
wrote ranily he had job In Xostov-on-on, also “utite Lept
aides said in agssin-ton tocay that this is the first case of its xind in
which the Sussians have cronted an exit visa", [Tais inaccurate: he was
never even in Ro: tov-on-Von so far as is known, and Oswald for om had alreagy
been granted an exit pernit, (CI/si¢)

2h March 1962. uit work, tainking aboul to leave,

Nay 1962. He was met by no one uzon arrival in Koscow.
hotel Were oresented note from Vera asxing for cheap roon.

any Russian,

18 va; 1962, Traded voviet internal passport for exit passport, at OVIR,

iw) Neam&le ran out of money. vera sent Sin cone from ~enin-rad,
Later in ‘ax, Received money ani nlane ticket frou frther, seturned
Vera's loan plus extra, vis LP corre:-ondents
20 vay 192. Arrived in U.>, under alien quota, extensively debriefed

by CIE, TY, ete. Psych acsesenent that-he unenations1, not the type to
Jearn fron'ewxrience, thouhtless of xterx otners! frelinrs, xicht oe bought
off by Soviets if in need,

4

oe OPEE PPE EE ggctaus G2tgHte 53
“ees 3 Ras < A rest tL ete |
ge ‘ell fa lest cuit
LS Ese age ZEbg-es songs e sea
ES Baa ie seughek Spe icidssbag ere
TE es et erates ae2e? a
Re Eb qespes tel GPs psoy 22 [2 pet laa beak
ress 33 ai pez Berth:
te A gi Eigit ga’ sS4222 teasdex 28

t
ix
1
&
z



Lm)

Seteber 10, Exit perait dented.

fsaner ISL. |. and Vera vacationed at beach near tra. Tera received
final Giverce fron firat husband.

Seevst 2961, I sade second exit anplication,

2A Fet: : 1962, This was the dato J received exit Perxit, according
x

Fetrs:
to wist Tater tole and. (ci/sIG files)

o *aren_1962, F wrote parents that he did not have much omy saved
aaisivht need it for sascow stay. sic)

#3 Barch 1962. Cleveland Plain tealer article said that when he last
wrote iaatly he Had Job In dostoveerson, also “tite wept munbchncoc
aides said in aasiinton today that this is the first case of its xind in
watch the Sussians have cronted an exit visa". {Tals inaccurate: hy was

never even in Roctov-onVon so far as is known, and Osvald for om had alreagy
been granted an exit perait, (CI/i¢) :

fh Aarch 1962, <uit work, tainking eboul to leaves
Say 1962. He was mst by no one uzon arrival in Koscow. ersired to small

Waere nresented note from Vers asxing for cheap room, ne hed net learned
wesian,

1S iz 190, Traded ~oviet interasl passport for exit passport, at OVIR,
Heardille raa out. of money, Yera sent Sin sone from wenin rad.

Lever in tiny. Reectved money an! vlane ticket from father. aeturned
Vera's loan plus extra, vin UP corres-ondent.

20 vay 182. Arrived in U.>, unger ation quota, extensively debriefed
by CIE, TSi, ete. Psych assessment that-he unenationsl, not the type to
Jesra from‘evoerience, thourhtless of xtuxx others' feelings, xicht be bought
off by Soviets if in need, :

% gun ge PHD BT Pa agetags geanag
woes ibehe3 $8a5 2 33 fe eo bake ¢
SS sects gsz a8ss 3 Yeokeeas ba,
= & 32522 eee aakE 5X 68 2x28, | oer
RA Fe 2ecepeieas Gag! eet bse cette zt

2 t Pa

Ms gefks Zostetss L5b2 se%y 2242022 232
g +S egigts) sober ezate Ses, So s8tes 728s get
ge* geketz= 2ff5 gezeetta§ 2s 38

E 2 e252 Ber eeee ssF | BEg2Ee fe 23%

a § exh’ le 9 bs82S2 5 ese
maA aif alii Blind Er



NMEA Ee Nae 8

1h oP seen a yews

Handwriting sample of Vera Ivanova PLATONOTA aa f Pbat Edurand
t P A)
ope q
tog hfarscor er,
‘niet enfet. Ct
——— ope we Kae
eo! Kefere, © cee
( forte
i. grove L4, 3xG
allege thee) oryere tos Coch,
at : %

Oe a Be ener ener oamee oot
o.
