lav

RETURNTO CIA
Background Use Only
* ’) + Do Not Reproduce

SOT RE YUAY/PORUSN/AWSRIP
eting of 11 December 1964 vith AMMIP/2

—— ft &
acon mequeao rns REP E (OIRAFIB6IS, J Rovember 1906
z

2
_ 1s: AMMHIP/2 telephoned BUKi's hoasc om 16 December 1964
end favited BUNCS and cite te cinner tho following evening. Ca
11 Locember 1964. BURCS pickeé bin up at the wtorc. An route to
BUME's ‘place, and also at the «lose of the evening, AMsHIP/2
supplied the following infornétion.

2. Mith the help of 8 gvod lawyor and sume influential
frienua AWHIP/2 hag finally msnasgec to obtein official peraissios
to resice incefinitely is Genevs. te is moving to 5 larger
Spartmenat scactine after the holicays. H

3. Bc will be back in Homa in carly Janoury 19¢4, vithout
ABSHIP/] (eho waa at the sture when BUNCE pickeu up AM<AIP/2).
Be wiil give BUNCE the comploted Pin; 2 at thet thac. then BORCE
expressed goa alle ssepticisn (Loveuse AMHID/2"a gaet visits
fo Roma have been much more widely spaced then be thoupht they
vers going to be), he repestec}; varmetly thet he had to be back
ia Jéousry for Luaiavas reasons,

4. BUXCK aehed whether AWSHIP/? and wits: bad hac a visit in
Geneve from Comsadante Jusn ALWGILA lowgus., (ase eh¥e-d021,
Ju Uctooer 1964, aot to Gecrid) MoDlv/2 aid no. Me sleo said
that meither be nor bin wife had bAd any corresponcence [rua
ALSKIDA, Hy repeatod @oae of thy inforuntion about ALMSILA which
appeers in Reference anc accod that ebile ha (A¥IHIP/2) aad wile
wery still fo Cuba, Kia wils'a brother cas arrestcu [or pussesuion
of D FaGie receiver. The eife sent to ALMGILA, who wze indignant
and who promptly orcersd thu Lrutner's reluasa. AMfUIP/2 again
Cum ribes ALL Iba oa — siaple but honorable anc trustworthy man.

DEC 18 1964



pidewoeoo ee

dS. BUCS also asked crout tox dneitation catcocee to AGHIP/2
by the Coban restay, fo vielt Cobep (ase biiotgit7, 16 dptester
1904, wot to GRATE, lEeris) (ic Pay or vevep pla smiilP/2 coatiracd
that oc ned ken extenced pura 2B invitetion and thst he ase
wanted to tecept. live he gomez2nis conte ct woula heve bern with
the feu IGEL314g sao ecomare in GIBAPSTOG, 7 Auwust 19t4 (not to
Stave os (ocricWT Lawailiv/2 eapleined tuat bad he goue, Be would
neve beca ALic ta see Bil the joweiry thet the GUC has for sole and
not jaunt thoec pieces which it seace to Lurope. le gaid thet he
bac checked with adeHIP/1, who latur told hin thet for security

reascos ho should not make the trip.

| Dos Boadquartura have any questions about which $¢ is
cesizes that AMsH1?/2 be queried during his mext trip to Rowe!

a. If Readquerters cnatinues to Bava o proesing peed
_ for Coban pesos (por UIR-S7711, 2 Lovenber 1064), we could
-pet ARVHIP/2 whether be cam obtein them without baserd

and at what price.
Bb. Be could also query Bim comerning say cases be may

know about ehich tavolve fieencial corruption on the part
of any Cubes officials or bank accounts maintaines by asy

‘gumh officials. outaice Cabs.

c. Be fatend to sak for full details on AMvHIP/1-AmrHIP/2
purchases of jewelry from tho Cubsea Aabansncor in Peria
enieas Headquarters alreacy has ai) this information from
ASHIP/1, Plesge acvise.

d. Wo plen ta debrief AMWID/2 syatcenticolly op say
acquaintances or firencs shom be may bave in-Cuka and who
bave an operstionsl potential.

¢. We also plan to ask hin fur sny vulnerability data
Bo my Bave om (uven officiale ebrond.

‘9. Af 11 or met of the shove camnot be covered duriag
4ORGIP/2'a Jenaary trip to bom, BUHCK pinng to go to G.sova in
February per paragrapa aisy of Befercece.

WALYsR &. BUNCE

E
g
4
z
8

ee ee
vecoge
ro

ro]

=

¥

Hoe caren eet os on : eiteasecea a
