Top Secret

EEPARTHEST = June 1955-January 1960) ‘

Operational Acti
Deputy Chief of the 2

Aecording to NOSFEKO, the Seventh vepartrent was reorgan-
ized in June 1958, and NOSEHO's section, which theretofore
had Leen concerned with operat ens against foreign tourists
fron all countries, was split into tio new section
concernea with tourists fron e United States anc
Eritish Commenvealth and the etier with tourists fro
Latin Arorica, and ail other ccuntrics. NOSEMKO claimed
that at that time he was promoted to the position of Deputy

+ Chief of the Anerican-Britisi Corzonwealth Section, “the
most important section of the Seventh Department".

In Septemser 1958, he aa to have personally recruited
Gisella HARRIS. It was als , that he super-
vised the sexual entrapment le although Seventh
Department Chief DU3AS made thé actual approach. Beginning

in the spring of 1959 he saic he directed his age! PREM
and VOL:0V in a series of successful entrapments- |
and KO stated that he also :

used these homosexual age
American guides at the
Finally, NOSENi
Fepresentative of the
NOSENKO clained that his Operational success during I05y—
earned him a commendation from the KGB Chairman. [He has
since retracted all claims to any awards earned during his
K service.] It was ien as Deputy

f£ of the American-B3ritish Cor wealth Section, NOSENKO
said, that he first became involved with Lee Harvey OS'IALD.

er

NOSENKO asserted that the recruitment of agents among
foreign tourists was secondary to h. department's principal i
mission, the detection of "lestern intelligence officers and |

agents among the increasing flow of tourists visiting the
Soviet Union. In line with that counterintellicence mission,
on General GRIBANOV's order in the fall of 1959, NOSENKO

Oocument Number {549- 497

FEB 1978 a

for FOIA Review on : LIS No. 197124 {

Top Secret Copy 1 i



ae

Top Secret *

(SEVENTH DEPARTMENT ~ June 1955-Januazy 1960)

lclaims that he saw NOSENKO on three occasicns,
Wite ssa, while visiting t

962 and
NKO insisted that he met ut once
in Odessa and once in Moscow in that perio

°

1963. NOS:

Comment: NOSENKO volunteered his account of the FRIPPEL

————~" case in Geneva in 1962 and 1964. le freely

.> ‘ related the details of the summer
February 1963 meetings with
USSR. His account of
consistent with
noted above.

activities is
yerSion, except as

Lee Harvey OSIIALD (1959-1960)

For continuity of presentation, both pericds of NOSENKO's:
alleged involvement with OS'IALD in 1959-1960 and in 1963
are described elsewhere. (See p.303.) According to NOSENKO,
he was involved with OSWALD in 1959 kecause he was then
Deputy Chief of the American-British Cormonwealth Section
of the Seventh Departrent. In that capacity he participated
in the decision that OSWALD was of no interest to the KGB
and he should not be allowed to remain in the Soviet Union.

bib” Bob “fk beck ~ Pad fea ba ™

NOSENKO's information on his involvement with
OSWALD in 1959 is insufficient to serve as
evidence confirming or refuting his claimed
service as Deputy Chief of the American Section
of the Seventh Department in 1959.

bub

143

e :

<TS No. 197124
: Top Secret Copy —1__



Top Secret

(SEVENTH DEPARIMENT ~ January 1962-January 1964)

was promoted to the position of a (one of three) Deputy Chicf
of the entire Seventh Department. A year later, he was made
First Deputy Chief, and thus second-in-command to CHELNOKOV
and general supervisor of all Second Chief Directorate tourist
Operations. The Seventh Department, which had a strength of
about 100 KGS officers, was responsible for all operations
against tourists in the Soviet Union. From this period NOSENKO
claimed to have learned, either by virtue of his position as
Deputy Chief or otherwise, of a number of KGB operations
against Americans, including two arrests, one recruitment, and
investigations of a suspected FBI agent and of Lee Harvey
OSWALD. NOSENKO as well attributes to his senior KGB posi-
tion“during this period his knowledge of an Anerican GRU agent
and of the KGB investigation of a disaffected American Embassy
Section officer, the latter occurring just before NOSENKO re-
turned to Geneva for the second time, and defected.

Recruitment of SVENCHANSKIY

NOSENKO's Information

In September 1963, NOSENKO took over from his subordinate,
Seventh Department case officer Ye.N. NOSKOV, the management
of KGB agent Alexander SVENCHANSKIY (cryptonym "“ANOD"),
SVENCHANSXIY was the president of “Afton Tours", a travel
agency in New York City, and the owner of a Chicago Russian-
language bookstore. There was originally some suspicion
thal SVENCHANSKIY might be an FHL informant, and the KGB was
also concerned over SVENCHANSKIY's contacts with AMTORG per~
sonnel in New York City. NOSKOV, the case officer at the
time, “felt” that SVENCHANSKIY was not an FBI informant and
recruited him in 1969 or 1961 after he was arrested for
blackmarketcering while visiting the Soviet Union. SVENCHAN-
SKIY's cooperation was secured against KGB promises that
t would refer business to the agent's New York travel

SVENCHANSKLY's task was to screen visa applications of
prospective tourists to the Soviet Union for persons who
might be connected with American Intelligence. If he suspected
such a person, he would make a signal by moving the photograph
on the visa application slightly, or making a small pin-prick
or pencilled mark on the application form.

. 292

TS No. 197124
Top Secret Copy

i
{
;

Ree ree onese

oe pee eer oer

it

— ET



nnn Seed
ere nee are A ETE

ay : Top Secret

- January 1962-ganuary 1964)

KO's knowledge of the KGB's interest in

stemmed from his claimed Tourist Depart:

assicnments. He asserted that while Deputy Chief ’

of the American Section in 1959 he participated an

the KSB determination that OSNALD was of no operaticnal

interest, In September 1963, when NOSENKO was Deputy :

Chief of the Tourist Departrent, he was informed of

OSWALD's visit to the Soviet Embassy in Mexico City to

apply to return to the R. Irmediately following i

se President Kennedy's assassination, NOSENKO, as

Bat Deputy Chief of the Tourist Department, reviewed KGB
records of OSWALD's stay in the Soviet Union including
the Second Chief Directorate file on OSWALD.

t

For continuity of presentation, both periods of
NOSENXO's alleged anvolverent with the OSWALD case
(1959-69 and 1963) are discussed here,

The information NOSENKO provided on the OSWALD ‘
case is significant if it substantiates NOSENKO'S
a claired positions 1n the KGB and confirms the validity
of his claim that he knew the extent of KGB involvement
q with OSWALD.

NOSENKO's Information
Residence in the USSR

Prior to OSWALD's arrival in the USSR, he was
4d completely unknown to the KGB. Moreover, upon
d receipt of his visa application, the KGB Second Chief
_ Directcrate determined that he was not of sufficient
importance to justify any special interest by the
q Seventn Department. Not until about October 1959,
when OSWALD expressed a desire to remain in the USSR
did he come to the attention of XOSENKO, who was, at
that time, Deputy Chief of the Anerican Section of
the Seventh Department. All available materials on
him sere thereupon collected and examined - the visa
application, Inturist reports, interpreters' reports,
reports from hotel agents, and the results of a check
of KGB Archives. NOSENKO's subordinate, KRUPNOV
interviewed the interpreter to whom OSWALD had stated
his wish to stay in the USSR.

[os a OR

wey

S.No. ice

| i Top Secret ~€opy —

i



Top Secret

(SEVENTH DEPARTHENT - January 1962-January 1964)

Although the KGB considered it possible that OSWALD

ght be an American agent, the KGB did nothing to
investigate this possibility because “this would be

done after the person is allowed to stay in the Soviet
Union." Surverliance of OSWALD was not increased after
his request, and OSiALD Was not interviewed by the KGB

in an attempt to establish his intentions. — k Vv

sent NOSENKO, his chief, a memorandum on information
which had been received concerning OSWALD. The momorandun
cited reports by KGB informants at the Hotel Berlin, where
OSWALD was staying in accordance. with an Inturist itinerary
and a two-page report by the Inturist interpreter to whon
OSWALD rade his anitial request to remain in the Soviet
Union. A file incorporating all inforration which KRUPNOV
had collected was thereugon opened in XOSENKO's section,

From this information NOSENK and KR
.that OSWALD was of no interest to the KGS, and both agreed
that OSWALD appeared somewhat “abnormal.” For this reason
NOSENKO instructed KPUPNOV to advise OSWALD through the
Inturist interpreter that he would not be permitted to
remain permanently in the USSR and that he must depart on
the expiration of his visa, then seek re-entry as a
permanent resident through normal channels at the Sovict
Embassy in Washingten., KRUPKOV followed NOSENKO's orders,
and either that day or the next Nos learned that OSWALD
failed to appear for a scheduled tour arranged by his
Inturist guide. This prompted a search, and after several
hours, OSWALD was found in his hotel room, blending heavily
from self-inflicted wounds. After hearing of this incident
from KRUPNOV, NOSENKO then reported it to K.N. DUBAS, Chicf
of the Scventii Department. MOSENKO believed that DUBAS an
turn reported it to GRIBANOV, head of the KGB Second Chicf
Directorate. GRIBANOV upheld MOSENKO's original decision
that the KGB should not become anvolved with OSNALD and
that OSWALD should not be permitted to remain in the USSR.

NOV concluded

There was no attempt to debrief OSWALD because “he was
not an interesting person and wasn't normal." OSWALD was
never questioned on his past nor asked to write an auto-
biography. é

304
be : TS No. 197124

_ Top Secret Copy,

fl
rm
}

UPL ELT

a

PY FH &

af

© ener



Top Secret

(SEVENTH DEPART’

NT - January 1962-January 1964)

KOSENKO did not know who eventually granted

OS#ALD permission to reside temporarily in the USSR

or who approved issuance of his temporary residence permit.
The KGB gave instructions that he not be allowed to live .
in the Moscow area. Either the Soviet Ped Cross or the
Ministry of Foreign Affairs may have made this decision

to assign OSWALD to Minsk, The Seventa’ papartment updated
his file, and 1t was sent, along with a cover letter pre-
Pared by KRUPNOV, to the local KGB organization in Minsk.
KRUPNOV's letter summarized the case and specifically in-
structed local authorities there to take no action con=
cerning OSWALD except to observe his activities “passively*
to rake sure that he was not an American Intelligence agent
on temporary “sleeper” status. NOSENKO read this letter,
and it was signed by DUBAS. On the basis of the instructions
contained in the letter, SENKO said, no active steps could
be taken in Minsk without KGB Headquarters approval. It was
NOSENKO's opinion that the only coverage of OSWALD during
his stay in Minsk consisted of periodic checks at his

place of employment, questioning of bis neighbors and
associates, and coverage of his maii. After OSWALD's
threatened second suicide attempt, the KGB "washed its
hands of him" and that even though there was considered

to be some possibility that he was a “sleeper agent,"

KGB Headquarters interest in him while he was in Minsk

was “practically nil."

Request to Return to the USSR

The KGB Second Chief Directorate was not concerned
with OSWALD's return to the United States in June 1962,
by whach time NOSENKO was Deputy Chief of the Seventh
Department. No further word on him was received at KGB
Headquarters until he appeared at the Soviet Embassy in
Mexico City in September 1963 and requested a visa to
return to the Soviet Union. The Mexico Legal Residency
reported his visit to KGB Headquarters by cable, re-
questing information. The KGB First Chief Directorate
had no record on OSWALD. M.I. TURALIN, Deputy Chief of
the First Chief Directorate's Service Number Two (Counter-
antelligence Abroad) called the Seventh Department to

see if the latter element had any information on OSWALD,
Fhe chief of the Sixth Section of the Seventh Department,
Vue ALEKSEYEV, received the call and reported the in-
quiry to Seventh Department Chief CHELNOKOV or to KOVALENKO.

305

TS No. 197124
: Top Secret Copy —__T_


Top Secret 4

TH DLPARTMENT - January 1962-January 1964)

NOSENKO thought he himself was present at the time. ALEKSEYEV
was given OS'ALD's background, including his suicide attempt
the f hat he was net considered normal, and was

to to advise the First Chief Directorate that OSNALD should
hot be permitted to return to the Sovict Union, ALUKSHYEV
relayed this information to the First Chicf Directorate.

SENKO did not know to whom OSWALD had spoken at the
t Embassy in Mexice City, and he knew of no contacts
en OS'IALD and Cubans or representatives of the CuLan
Government there or elsewhere.

Comment: Independent sources, however, reported on
visits by OSHALD to the Cuban as well as
Soviet Embassies in Mexico City between 29
September and 3 October 1963 and on his :
(apparently overt) contact with a KGA officer
under Consular cover at the Sovict Embassy
there, NOSENKO originally said he knew
nothing of any such contact. In October 1966
he revised this to say that OS'ALD did not
have contact with the KGS in Mexico City.
NOSENKO explained that he had been sitting in
the office of Seventh Department Chief, KN.
DUBAS, when a cable arrived at Moscow Head=
quarters from the KGB Legal Residency in
Mexico. The cable, which NOSIENKO said he did
not personally see, reported that OSWALD had
visited the Soviet Embassy in Nexico City
requesting permission to return to the USSR

a and that the cable specified that OSVALD had
dealt with Soviet Forcign Ministry personnel
only.

306
. : TS No. 197124

_ Top Secret Copy ee

eect tate arma eee =

¢

Piece rene arr Been

vee

reort

pee

cory Pree Pt Fs Ot

PT



LJ
uw

aay

ie
Mm
By
ia
sat:
fa
|
|
|
a
=
a
a
a
3
a

Top Secret

SLVENTIL DEPARTNENT ~ January 1962-January 1964)

sassination Review of KGK File

‘KO next learned of OSNALD's activities as a result
dent Kennedy's assassination. About two hours after
President Kennedy was’ shot, NOSMNKO was advised of this fact
in a telephone call to his home from KGB licadquarters, A
short while later he was told, again by telephone, that the
President had died. Aboyt two hours later, NOSENKO was told
that OSWALD had been arrested, and he and the other officers
of the American Tourist Section were called in to determine
whether the KGB had any information concerning him. After
establ ing OSWALD's identity from kG files and learning
that his file was still in Minsk, NOSENKO phoned the KGB
office in Minsk on GRIBANOV's orders. The local KGB dictated
over the telephone a summary of its file on OS'!ALD. This
summary concluded with the statement that the KGB in Minsk
had attempted "to influence OSYALD in the right direction".
GRIBANOV had been greatly disturbed about the local KGB's
efforts because it had been given specific instructions to
carry out nothing other than passive measures against OSWALD
there, He ordered that all records in Mins) pertaining to
OSWALD's stay there, as well as an explanation of the
meaning of the statement about influencing OS"ALD, be flown
immediately to Moscow by military aircraft. NOSENKO personally
read the explanation from Ninsk concerning the meaning of
this statement and thoroughly reviewed OSYALD's file when

it arrived by plane. He then turned the file over to S.M.
FEDOSEYEV, the Chief of the American Department of the KGD
Second Chief Directorate, who prepared a two-page summary
memorandun for GRIBANOV. This memorandum, which NOSENKO
read, forwarded to KGB Chairman Semiciastnyy, and
Semichastnyy in turn reported to the CPSU Central Committee
and to Khrushchev concerning it.

OSWALD's file from Minsk contained no information to
indicate that the KGB in Minsk had taken any action with
respect to OSWALD contrary to instructions from KGB Head-
quarters. From the date of OSWALD's arrival in the USSR
until his departure, the KGB had no personal contact with
him and had not attempted to utilize him in any manner.

307

. TS No. 197124
Top Secret Copy tieentin



pre

ST ere ttt nee a men ne ee Na ee Lad ng ead

Top Secrat

El amiss

(SEVEN

TH DEPARTNENT = January 1962-January 1964)

ef fs eee eee

OSYALD never received any KGB training or KGh assign-
ments. If any other department of the KON or the GU had
wanted te use OSHALD in any way, it would have had tou secure
permission from the Seventh Department, which originally
opened his case file. In view of OSNALD's apparent mental
instability, no Sovict intelligence organization, particu-
larly not the Thirteenth (A sSination and Sabotacs)
Department, would have considered using him. KGB licad-
quarters did not maintain a control fale on him following
his settlement in Minsk, as it would have done had OSYALD
been of any operational interest. ‘The only KGB record on
OSHALD maintained in Moscow was an indéx card giving his
name and the fact the Seventh Department had originated a
file concerning him.

en

Laan)

The KGB maintained no separate file on Marina OSYALD;
all information about her was kept in OSWALD's file. There
was no indication in OSNALD's file that the KGB had had any
interest in Marina either while she was in the Soviet Union
or after she left for the United States.

Comment: NOSENKO later told CIA on one occasion that he
“only skimzed tne file" and on another that he
had it in his possession about 20 minites. In
October 1966 he again said that he read the
file and that while doing so he saw a picture
of OSWALD for the first time. NOSENKO added
that he never met OS'ALD personally.

NOSENKO's assertion that the KGB First Chief
- Directorate first learned of OSALD when he
applied for a re-entry visa in Mexico City in
September 1963 is probably incorrect. The
consular file turned over to the U.S. Govern-
ment by the Soviet Embassy in Washington
after the assassination indicated that the KGB
First Chief Directorate would have known of
OSHALD as early as February 1963 if not earlier.
That file contained Marina OSWALD's letter of
February 1663 and a letter of July 1963 from
OS'IALD, both of which indicated that OSWALD had

a

PT FS PF

303

. i TS No. 197124
. Top Secret Copy _

rt ora ore Fy



}-

VS ig bb kd bd Ld bg bY kd ed ea te ee oe ee oe

eat

:
:

Top Secret

(SEVENTH DEPARTHENT - January 1962-January 1964)

Comment:

(Continued)

earlier requested permission to return to the
Soviet Union. In the last dated letter of the
file, one of 9 NovemLer 1963, OS‘IALD advised
the Sovict Embassy in “ashington of his travel
under alias to Nexico, his fruitless contact
with an official (whom CIA identifies as a

KGB officer) of the Soviet Er:vassy in Mexico
City, his contact there with the Cuban Consulate
and his efforts to reach llavana in order to

“visit the Sovict Embassy there. “Yithout regard

to possible carlier correspondence, OSWALD's
request for a Sovict visa addressed to the
Embassy in Washington in July 1963 would require
the Washington Residency to report the matter
to Moscow just as NOSENKO described the Mexico
City Residency later did. NOSENKO's apparent

- ignorance of OSWALD's communications with the

Soviet Embassy in Washington discredits his
claim to complete knowledge of all aspects of
the KGB relationship with OSUALD,

The CHEREPANOV Papers

Comment:

On 4 November 1963 in Moscow, a MEZHKNIGA
employce claiming to be one CHERFPANOV, passed
to an American book~buyer a package which he
requested the American to deliver to a trust-
worthy person at the American Embassy. Embassy
officials found the package to contain a
bundle of typed or handwritten documents which
appeared to have originated in classified KGB
files. Fearing a Soviet provocation which
could lead to a denunciation of the Embassy
for possessing classified Soviet Government
docunents, Embassy officials had the documents
photographed and on the next day, 5 Movember,
returned the originals to the Soviet Ministry
of Foreign Affairs.

309
TS_No. 197124
Top Secret Copy



Top Secret 7 :

H DEPARTMENT ~ Jaruary 1962-January 1964)

Operational Activities - July 1962-January 1964: Summary

To substantiate his claims to havina served as Deputy \
Chief of the Seventh Department during this period, NOSENKO ~
describes KG3 invol he recruitment of SVFNCIANSKIY,
the arrests of KOVEN and BARGHOORN, and the investigations
of SLESINGER, OSALD, and of former KGB officer CIEREPANOV,
his discovery"That SHURIN was a GRU agent, and his assignment
to Geneva. Even if NOSENKO learned of the operations as
he cescribed and they were as he described (there are substan~
tial reasons why they might have been conducted by KGB
elements other than the Seventh Department), they are atypical
with respect to NOSENKO's ovn description of Seventh Depart-
ment operations. They do not accurately characterize, as
NOSENKO claims, KGB counterintelligence operations against
tourists, and thus do not substantiate his Seventh Department
service. NOSENKO's explanations for his assignment to
Geneva in 1964 are no more plausible than for his earlier
assignment there in 1962. NOSENKO has asserted that he was
not a licutenant colonel as the temporary Guty authorization
indicated, but a captain, a rank incongruous with a Deputy
Chief of Department and one from which he presumably would
have been promoted as he assumed the senior KGB positions
which he claimed to have held. Lastly, his credibility is
diminished by his assertion that he invented the recall
telegram (nevertheless apparently confirmed by SCOTCH) to
prompt immediate CIA acceptance of his defection.

KGB Counterintelligence Overations
Among American Tourists
2962-1963

Because of his position as a Deputy Chief, then First
Deputy Chief of the Seventh Department, NOSENKO claimed
awareness of what the KGB posture was with respect to

326
. F TS No. 197124
Tep Secret Copy

