# 104-10120-10164

## Page 1

104-10120-10164

STAN'ARO FORM NO. 64

SECRET

Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO

: Chict SSD

DATB: 24 AugJ6

FROM : SE

SUBJECT:

(1)*65077

(2)766878

The IG, Mr Kirkpätrick, mill appenl our decrscon

agoensy

conversion of the

tuo sufastis afore to Grn, Gafclf.

Thes es

baich.cpon

reprasentatcon, to hem buy Goth Subgestu Durcmy

hod vedy in l

Im the casr of sclyest (i), please cheak with FBl Lacion

and eoke then to werity of powrole that he youred the

Cp at the instugation and with the bloking of Speckel

Who weu his FAI Lode O.

Ajeat Lalward Wu. Buekllfaled ogein ofd I lnll noed is

Waca I caull for

Thi sommery of the too cases

STANDARD FORM NQ. 64

Office Memurandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO

DATE:

CHIEF.

FROM SECURITY SUPPORT DIVISION

ot actua!.y

13o e ngea nuliet t foia t P hut tlp vin eat tey

imesicite.

Jete ritenates thethis ns fernmnti a nglt e

---

## Page 2

..STANDARD PORN NO, 6A

SECRET

Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO

Record

DATB: 21 Felo 1957

FROM : 52

SUBJECT: Balmes M. HIDALGO - 165077

Mr Helms called a mecting on

of lott and

the undersigned to dosenes a proposed by

the If that subget or convented to statt employee.

It was aqueed that the save

would

depend on

how much

the fast that sulget had been

wally publicited do on FAI Intormant wall effect the

feroGuity of her use

his cover, and his possable integrate

into State Deal.

was asked to laguire of State on

their policy old was

intoned they wall much preter to

not to integrate a sudget of this type. -I so informed

Mr Helms. - Final outcon rests &taxen lApP ad IG

STANDARD FORM NQ. 64

Office Menurandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO

DATR 3 s August 56

FROM

SUBJECT:

CHIEF,

SECURITY SUPPORT DIVISION

Fun Helalgo, Brime N

#65077

is stuarde note te as tugures.

con

Mercentensio

---

