# 104-10088-10209

## Page 1

1104-10088-10209

SECRET / SENSITIE

Mexico Station Coverage of Soviet and guban Embassies (1963)

1.

Unilateral Coverage:

the arrival of Mr. Win

From the time PRODUCTION

Opened in April 1947) until

Station in 1955, the Station had

developed a support apparatus to exploit leads from the Soviet Embassy in

Mexico City. This umbrella type project (LIPSTICK)

riconsisted of multiline

phone taps, three photographic sites, a mobite

forseillance. team and a

mail

intercept operation.

Telephone taps (LIFEAT

placed by an employee of the Tocal

telephone company whor

nited by a Station case officer. The number

of lines tapped wasn

sitited only by the availability of a listening post

nearby and the availability of langauge (English, Spanish, Soviet, Polish,

Czech, etc.) transcribers. Generally, these were Mexican or Mexican-

American recruited agents.

Three photographic sites were hangle

assisted by technicians on TDY from

on the best types of cameras

a Station case officer.

asters who advised the Station

Want devices. These

operations had sub-crypts

ender

and LICALLA). LIMITED was a ti

ed, site directly opposite the Soviet Em-

bassy (across the street) which had both a vehicle and a pedestrian en-

trance. The gate to the Soviet Embassy was on the northwest corner of the

0000158

E2, IMPDET

CL

BY 004645

7

0003003

PAGE

2250г

COPY NO.

319

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECRET SENSIVE

Soviet compound and the LIMITED site was diagonally across a double laned

street on the southeast corner of that bl

(See attached diagram).

LIMITED was the first photo base

strictly on an experimental

basis in the early stages

barel

was closed when the Sta-

tion received word thak

Der the

"unidentified man" was

being released by the Warren co

mission.

LILYRIC was an alternate photo-

graphic base. It was located in an upper story of an apartment building

on the same side of the street as the LIMITED site but

the block south. It had a planted view of the fro

Embassy. LICALLA, the third photograph

row of four houses on the south

This site overlooked the.

the middle of

ate of the Soviet

was located in one of a

the Soviet Embassy compound.

den of the Soviet Embassy compound. The

purpose of this opera

arawas to get good identification photographs of

Soviet personnel. The three photographic sites were managed by a re-

cruited agent who was a Mexican citizen, the son of an American mother

and Mexican father (deceased). This agent o

legted the film from the

LIMITED and LILYRIC sites three

The film was then de-

veloped and printed intor®

Entips.

LICALLA film was

originally processed in the Statto

Merelin early 1959) due to the resig-

nation of a technician, this film Tike that of LIMITED and LILYRIC was

processed

on the outside by a recruited agent.

0000159

2

SECRET/SENSITIVE

8

C003010

PAGE

226

319

COPY

of

NO.

---

## Page 3

14-00000

SECRET /SCISTINE

Mobile surveillance

was conducted by

two American staff officers.

could be activated by

interest left the gate of the pite:

These agents were aware of

the LIMITED site since they had

been

issued LIMITED photographs for

identification purposes.

The Station also conducted a unilateral ma

tercept operation,

LIBIGHT, which was handled by an American case

icer.

A recruited"

(Mexican agent, who had a semiofficial

tusa

obtained selected letters

from a subagent employed by the Mexi

can postal system.

2. (Liaison) Coverage:

(Liaison covera

unreliable and insecure as characterized by

the nature of the Mexican services) at that time. The Mexican Direction

of Federal Security (DFS), with which we conducted liaisong was a hip-

pocket group run out of the Mexican MCA!

•Government. This Ministry

was principally occupied with,

gations and control of

foreigners. Their agends

and corrupt. A Station

officer trained a number of ti

ame tracing and travel control.

In:

1958, at the instigation of a Mexican official, a joint telephone tap

operation came into existence. The operation, which became known as

0000160

3

SEGRET SENSITIVE

9

0003011

PAGE

COPY NO.

227

o= 319

---

## Page 4

14-00000

( SECRET/SENSITIE

LIENVOY, was run by a Mexican officer. The listening post had 30 lines

connected at one time. The transcription foon

was staffed by Mexican

(Army officers. In 1961, (because

granagement by the Mexican prin-

(Cipals, the Station chief Diage

bec

project case officer. A

Station officer assisted

in tales supervision of the listening

post, and in picking up the

transcripts and the tapes. There was also

an American technician inside the listening post.

3. Oswald Coverage:

In mid-1962, the Mexican officer in charge of LIENVOY (the

joint tap operation) asked the American officer at the Lenvoy listening

post for the telephone numbers of the Soviet, Cuban and Satellite Em-

bassies in anticipation of possible coverage

The Station immediately

disconnected all of the unilateral

telephone taps on these Embassies so

that they would not be disco

ten the Mexicans hooked up their

(taps. The Mexicans) sa

eatter connected five Cuban lines, five

Soviet lines, three Czech lines, two Polish lines, and one YugosTav

line.

At the listening post, a live

short summaries of

conversations of interest whiab

instaged in a daily resume

for the Chief

of Station

later

Bee Laras completely recorded,

full transcripts were typed

and

to the Station; however, there

was usually a time lag of a day or two. Reels which contained Russian

6000161

4

SEGRET/SEISITIVE

10

0003012

PAGE

228 • 319

COPY NO.

---

## Page 5

14-00000

" SECRET /SENSITIE

As soon as the statio

self as Lee Oswald phoned

the Soviet Embassy, Miss Ann Goodpasture of the

Station started screening

all photographs. However, here

again,

there

was a backlog because the photographs were picked up

three

a week

but those picked up were usually for dates a

before since the

technician who was processing the film,

on

night-time basis.

Further, photographs were not made

until a complete roll of

film was used. Later this

nagged

and the operator cleared the camera

at the end of each day rega

satess of amount of unused film remaining.

The instructions were to cover the entire work day (office hours) and to

photograph all Soviets, their families, all foreigners, and cars with

foreign license plates. Human error did

gour but generally the agents

were conscientious.

The cuban EREs

age had more sophisticated

equipment using a pulsE Parlan

Which fp

ficulties.

PROM BIN

tly developed mechanical dif-

Oswald came to the attention of the listening post operators

from a tap of the Soviet line.. It was picked up and taken to Mr. Boris

0000162

0000

5

SECRET /SEISITIVE

11

0003013

PAGE

229 0г

319

COPY. NO.

---

## Page 6

14-00000

SEBRET SENSITIES

Tarasoff for translation because the

There was some delay because St

Na be's trying to speak in Russian.

waited to compare the

photographs with the

either Spanish or Englists

these two languages and becauge he

for operational leads.

parsonally screened the transcripts

REPRODUCTION FRONBITED

0000163

6

SECRET SENSINE

12

0003014

PAGE

COPY

230 319

---

