# 104-10413-10334

## Page 1

110410413-103341

SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY

TOG

19%

DEI

0

THE

OMF 0

CLASSICATIOn

SECRET

ME SHAGE HANDLIMO INDICATON

STAFF

0

DATE-TIME GROUN

erra

020046Z

DIRECTOR

CONF: C/353 INFO:

FILE DU

D/su,

0D03 CS/RF

/NES, DD0/D0,. C/PS/EGZ

PAda

Is

1 •

NOW DAMPINCE NUMB!

922297

DISSEM BY: 45

t0O thEN

MATURATO PER

10 MMES

TO: IMMEDIATE TEHRAN. Y

WNINTEL RYBAT

I AP WIRE STORY IN WASHINGTON STAR ON FOIA RELEASE OF OSWALD'S

0.=

MATERIAL MAKES FOLLOWING STATEMENT WHICH YOU SHOULD BE AWARE,

eUTE: IN SWORN TESTIMONY BEFORE THE WARREN COMMISSION,

RICHARD HELMS, THEN A BRANCH CHIEF AND LATER CIA'S DIRECTOR.

•SAID THE AGENCY NEVER HAD OR EVEN CONTEMPLATED ANY CONTACTS

WITH OSWALD. •• NEWLY RELEASED DOCUMENT, SAYS WE SHOWED IN

TELLIGENCE INTEREST IN OSWALD AND DISCUSSES... THE LAYING ON

OF INTERVIEWS. END QUOTE. Y

MATERIAL

2. ABOVE MISCONSTRUED FROM SANITIZED EAR RELEASED UNDER FOIA,

WRITTEN BY FORMER OFFICER WHO WAS INTERESTED IN POSSIBLE USEFUL IN-

FORMATION OSWALD MIGHT HAVE IN CONTEXT OF SOVIET REALITIES. IN

RESPONSE TO DCI CALL TO ALL HANDS TO RECORD WHATEVER THEY THOUGHT

MIGHT BE RELEVANT TO WARREN COMMISSION INTERESTS, OFFICER WROTE THIS

MEND

МЕЛО

THE

DOES RECORD BRANCH LEVEL DISCUSSION BUT STATES THAT

WRITER DOES NOT KNOW WHAT ACTION WAS TAKEN. E-Z, IMPDET-M

DATE: I OCT 7Ь

ORIO:"

CHAS-BRIGGS:DCM

UNIT:

C/ISS

EXT:

1596

D

w. to. lives

COONDINATINE OFFICENS

THEODORE GIMSHACKLEY, ADDO

CLADNNCATION

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

E 2

IMPDET®

SECRET

CL BY: 061991

---

## Page 2

13-00000

Soturday, Ortober 20.197

"Document Contradicts restimony

CIA Viewed Oswald

As Information Source

Oswa

ch he: had

the

d ind

1)yOswald mi

sk factory in whi

he

loyedit on, certain, sec-

y, itseli, and o

rusual (deleted) that;

was rele

ated Press:

the Freedom of inform

NA. second documen

former Clay Directoi

while serving f

Warren Commission=

seled CIA officials on

that Oswal

to the CIA,be

hat:

his, Russian-

ina, might,have been

1 for Soviet women to

ers, leave the country

seas where they could

ABOUT the age

wald-said ither

ючЕ

Oswald occurred, some

summer, 960, the author

"don't recallif this was"

ed while Oswald and his fami-y

en route to our country or il it

after their arrivals

was a CLA agen

-The Washingtan; St

2 10

CIA Link

To Oswald®

Unproven:

Senate investigators were unable.

to confirm reports from two CIA oifi-»:

cers that the agency may have con;

tacted Lee Harvey Oswald prior to-

the assassination of President-John.

day ennedy i was learned yester

However,

Sen. Richard Schweiker,

R-Pat

"Who headed the

Kennedy

assassination•

estigation

through a spokes

that

"I'don'

think we snow the whole story.

The CLA released a

document

Thursday, showing that the

agencys,

once considered using Oswald

source, off intelligence

"information

the Soviet:

The

ment appeared to conflict with sworn

before: the

гтеп: Com-'

misSIon

by, Richard Helms

then. a

branch:

"Chielrand" later

the

'CIA's

director;

that the agency never had?

"or even contemplated" any contacts

with Oswald

79 54203 F

/ SCHWEIKER SAID he was

una

ware of the Oswald document, but a

well informed source said it had been:

turned over to the Senate intelligence

subcommittee that investigated

Kennedy assassination.

the

"We followed it up,'

i the source

said, but "we found no indication tha:

Oswald was in fact contacted.

• The same, source said, investiga-a

tors also were unable to cost

irm the

sworn; testimony, before the-subcom

mittee by a, former CIA, officer who

claimed to have seen: a CIA report

concerning a contact with a man.

closely.resembling.@swalds descrip.

schweiker confirmed that his subn

committee, had been unable" to cort

roborate several. reports 70% ClAy

contacts with Oswald in connection

with

his; travels: in

Russia:

1959 and 1962.5451112492"

between

Maze 07 ca

wald was never an emp

---

