# 104-10167-10418

## Page 1

104-10167-10418

RETURNTO GIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

des will

Kulay

Trait

1N. 2A)L

9516

is November. 1903%

JMINAVE

13-2.9113

3901070)

• UZ

- SISCEN

Elses, S

1U1 - 37624

LOP, ADLE, C/Crope: 2, e/0G 2, i9

SAS/ESEN ' GS72

WAVE

B2831

YASA TYPIC ANCANOE

REF UFGA 11964

fir'

1. CHARGES LEVIED BY AMCANOE 8 AND UPHILO BY AMCAVOE 10 IN

NEF WERE OF SUCH SIGNIFICANCE THAI STEPS WERE REQUIRED TO DIEFINE

ADVISABILITY OF CONTINUED ASSOCIATION WITH ANY CI PERSONS EVOLVED.

TỌ THIS END AMCANOE 4 WAS LCFLUTTERED ON 7 MOV 65.

NOMINAL BASIS

FOR ICFLUTTER WAS UNSPECTED SECURITY DIVISTICATION OF AMCANCE OP.

QUESTIONS BASED ON REF REPORT WERE INTERLENGLEI WITH OTHER ROUTINE

SECURITY QUESTIONS.

LEFLUTTER OPERATOR WAS SATISFIED THAI RESULIS

EXAMINATION SUBSI ANTIATED THAT AMCANOE A HAD NOT PLOTIED IO KILL

AND ROB ANYONE AS REPORIED REF

2. BELIEVE EMERGENGE REF REPORT WAS CONSDQUENCE OF RECENT

DIFTERENCES BETWEEN AMCANOE 8 AND AMCANOE 4. THESE RESULIED IN

SEPARATION ANCANDI & FROM AMCANDI GROUP, BASIC PROBLEN WAS

ANCANOE 8 TAILURE OBSERVE SECURITY RULES IMPOSED BY AMCANOE: AND

ANCANOE 4. AMCAVOE 8 ATIRIBUTED SEPARATION TO PERSOVAL

for cit

15-11

Crap. At

in it pot a ton o

1033 CSM 43-43

---

## Page 2

14-00000

CAI

L. Treltir: np

iS/3/ EDE

1667g

• Xy;

BAlE :13 gorember 1903=

TO IINWAVE

p:d: =115:02

koNr.

€1:8= 5

gric:

ta, aste, dür ild: 2, 6d5?, vni

P

#6FO

8-57824 104

. 1=

SECRET/RYDA2

_19-5:3110 .

WAVE

VFEVX TYPIC AMCANOE

CITELiR

somesoen

n.dai... 2-88 1353a

&I COPY

R

32831

iiind

- 34

---

## Page 3

f.r:

DIRECTOR

PAGE TWO

iC

INFO

DIFFERENCES WITH ANCANOE 4.

CITE SIz

82831

• 3. FYIRE PARA I BRET AMCANOE 8 AND 10 WERE NOT AWAREDE IAILS

AMCANOE 9 Of PLAN WHICH,CONTRARY TO THIIR STATEMENT; CALLED FOR

AMCANOE 9 TRAVEL HAVANA

4. FURTHER, AMCANOI I AND 4 HAVE BEEN INSTRUCIED TO

A TERMINATE ANCANOE 10 AMICABLY

B. NOT DISCLOSE TO ANYONE THAT THEY AWARE ALLIGATIONS

REPORTED REF. (BOTH AMCANOE I AND AMCAIOT 4 WERE TOLD SUBSTANCE

REPORT BUT SOURCE NOT REVEALED, THEY NEVERTHELESS SUSPECT THAT

ANSWIRL I IS ORIGINATOR.

6. MAINTAIN COURTEOUS RELATIONS AMSWIRL I BUT NOT DISCUSS

ANY OPS MATTERS

5. CONSIDER MATTER CLOSED BUT WILL POUCH WAVE FULL REPORT

IN VIEW INVOLVEMENT AMSWIRL-1.

C/SAS/ED

OS/IRD

SMOND FIZGERALD

CISAS/MOB

69.4.91:8

Esperetion

I A. MARELIUS

11

REFRODUTTON

" 3li2).

Capp No. •

---

