oa-ioni7-0iee]
re, 2

esas ti

Feo ora SEORET Fo,

| |

44329 1962

TO 3 Director
Federal Bureau of Investigation
Attention: Mr. 8. J. Papich

ae % Deputy Director (Plans) ., “2-
ani.” 1e oe ‘
BUBJECT 1 Richard GIBSOM,-fair Play for Cubs Conmittee

1. Reference is nade to conversations between Mr.
Victor Wallen of this Agency and Mr, William Cregar of the
Bureau concerning Subject. The substance of this report
bas been discussed with Hr. Crogar.

2, This Agency received a letter dated 4 July 1962, on
stationery of the Pair Play for Cuba Committeo, 799 brozduay,
Kew York 3, ¥. ¥., signed "A Friend". In the letter the
writer indicated he could be of assistance to this Agency;
suggested Hontreal, Canada, as & discrest location for a
meeting if this Agency were interested in discussing the
poswibilities of cooperation; asked test this Agency arrange
for his transportation and expenses while in Montreal; and
requested that he be personally contacted by phono at the
Committee's address or at his home. The Committee stationery
letterhead contained two names, Robert TABER, Executive
Becretary, and Richard GIBSON, Acting Executive Secretary.
From the letter there wag po way to determine whether TAPER,
GIBSON, or gcue other person wrote the letter. This Agency
took no action on this letter.

a a

3. Mr. Yellen made available a copy of the above letter
te Mr. Cregar on 16 July 1962.

|
|
i
i
!
|

4. On 19 July 1962, Philip K. Reiss, Department of

‘Agriculture, Code 111, Extention 6660, requested an inter=-

view with a representative of this Agency. Reiss, a former

employee of this Agency, was subsequently interviewed on 20

July 1962, at which time he produced a personal letter,

dated 16 July 1962, from Richard GIBSON, Fair Play for Cuba

Comittee, to Thorton Hagert, 214 EB, Coluabia, Falls Courch,

Virginia, Seisa’ stepbrother. Heise expiained thal Gitsca

was a friend of his stepbrother, and apparently at sometine |

cs COPY

ai aa dee Nar’

ee ee Se


spas

im the past his steptcother had told GIBSON that he (Reiss)
was a former employee of this Agency. In the letter GIBSON
asked Hagert to tell Boiss to infora his (Reiss') former
employers that he (GIBSON) had written a letter several weeks
ago discreetly trying to get in touch with the Agency; time
was running out; it was a matter of life or death; suggested
Montreal as mecting place; and suggested this Agency contact
him at his office im Kew York (799 Broadway) or his hone,
Phone YU 2-6011.

8. Mr. Fallen made available a copy of this second
letter to Mr. Cregar on 22 July 1982. Reiss was informed
on 24 July 1962 that he (Reiss) would be contacted by the
¥.B.1,. with regard to the letter.

6. Richard GIBSOM has been the subject of previous
correspondence received from the Bureau; this Ageacy's
gecurity file on Philip K. Reiss, a former employee, contains
no derogatory information, and this Agency bas no record of
Thornton Hagert.

7. Attached are copies of Richard JIBSON's letters
Gated 4 July 1962 and 18 July 1962.

CSCI-3/772, 384

Attachzents! Herewith
Ag stated above

Distribution: Based on: GIBSON*s letters of
Orig & 1 »-ddressee 4 duly 1962 and
= RID 16 duly 1962 :
Feet crane File No.: 201-306052 Libor, Hoi,
1 - TFW/R
. 2 — TFW/CI
TFW/cl| sab (24 August 1962)

