# 104-10232-10003

## Page 1

104-10232-10003

SECCAT

19 October 1961

MEMORANDUM FOR : Colonel Johnson

VIA

SUBJECT

REFERENCE

: Ms. Ellle

: Guldance re: Dr. Miro CARDONA

: Your Memorandum for the Rocord of

10 Octobor 1961.

1, In your discussion with State ind MIRO it might be wieo, for

2. Realizing the difficult handling problem you have, I am putting

down my own reactions to some of the parts of your memo, which

may, I hope, be of some assistance.

3.

Regarding your paragraph & item a.

should for security reasons alono)

ion to Miro or believe une

oporations in this area.

ike this they are simply guessing and "fishing.

guessos on our assets are very eroneous. Usually, their forays

can be countered by saying we agree that the propaganda "Ines"

should be discussed or they should tell us what they think the "line"

abould be and we will corrent if we disagree. In short, we are

willing to covertly try to support them, butwe are not obligated to

reveal to State or MIRO our specific operationg and personnel

which should be in a normal situation clandestine. Accordingly,

I would suggest that you encourage the CRC toward diverting some

of the million dollars the White House promised them into forming

a functioning propaganda commission and suggest they then tell us

what they are doing and plan to do, so that ll we have assets and

approvals from our people we will be in a position to coordinate

our efforts with theirs.

4. Regarding your paragraph 2, b, these seem in general sound

enough.

Tell him. to keop us advised as to what he proposes to do

with his funds in this field. Surely he doesn't feel he is giving us

orders as to what we should do here in our country.

SECRET

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECRET

- 2.

3. Rogarding your paragraph 2,c, you may wish to remind him

of him conversation with CLARK and HANLEY In Baltimore whore thie.

wan disruesed. You may tell him that we aro as agreed endeavoring

to provido funde to tho internal groups which he indicated should be

•apported. Naturally the meana are secrot. I ho has a particular

leader or group inside he wants us to try to support he should tell us.

We could suggoat some of his million dollars could bo utilized by him

also for the purpose,: Aa to commando action, the State Department,

which sets policy, has not authorized any commando oporations of any

kind and we are accordingly not in a position to organize or aupport any

for the present.

6. Regarding your paragraph 3 on Commando Action, this plan

in not yet in Headquartera; however, we havo no policy authorisation

from State for such an operation.

7. Regarding your item 4, you will recall and he will recall, he

took this up with GOODWIN and then with HURWITZ and thon with

CLARK and HANLEY. He was unable then to say oxactly how or even.

li he could develop a commo line to Ramirez much less how he would

get arms to RAMIREZ, or anybody else by air, and in either boat or

air operations there would have to be some assurance that he had the

capability to arrango a recoption party in Cuba for the arms, assuming

we had the policy authorization to support this kind of operation. You

should tell him that as explained by HANLEY to him, it la not enough

for him to just say he would like to support a given guerilla group. He

will have to have some capability for doing it before we can support him,

assuming we can get policy approval for same.

8. Regarding your item 6, although we sympathize with his view,

as Mr. HURWITZ and Mr. COERR, as well as Mji GOODWIN, have

told him, the U.S. Government has not and does hot plan to commit

itself to him on the question of sending U.S. troops to Cuba.

9. With regard to your item 7, I would suggest you remind him he

agreed in his conversation with HANLEY and CLARK that he would

arrange an amicable takeover of the jurists which he admittedly has

not done.

We still hape he can exert enough influence over his people

to keep the, meas out of the press.

SECRET

---

## Page 3

$ 4-00000

10. With regard to your item i, we too would liko to soo him exert

ome leadorahip and Induce these groupe to unite with him in one way

or another, but do not agren with him that In the long run much can bo

accompliahed by just saying "I control the money, and I am THE channel

to tho U.S. Governmont." Ho must keep in mind that there are in

existence lote of channels to the U.S. Government and by that we do

not mean ColA.

Regarding your Item i1, you probably should omphasize to him

again that he has taken over the FRD budget and personnel and it Is

up to him to got them organized and doing something other than drawing

rolief checka.

12. Regarding your item 14, 1 suggest you continue your "coordination"

line with MIRO, pointing out these groupe are not under complete

control of GaloA., that they do many things on their own, that we

merely support them from time to time, usually indirectly. Accordingly,

we are not in a position to "turn them over" to him, even if we wanted

to, which we at thla point, are not sure they would agree to in any case.

Ho will simply have to get into some working relationship with them,

using his million dollare or leadership, preferably the latter.

DC /WH/4

Distribution:

Orig & 1 - Col. Johneon

1 - Mr. Ellla

1 - DC/WH/4

1 = C/WH/4

1 - C/WH/4/Plane

SECRET

---

