# 104-10102-10050

## Page 1

104-10102-10050

Se

t6.2-

Summary of Contacts with

AMKHIE/1 and AMLASH/1

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Repradiso

HELSINKI:

1. ' Events of 30 July 1962:

AWHIP arrived in Helsinki on 30 July 1962. He called HBFINCH.

according to plan, and after his second call (due to his hotel porter's

abysinal understanding of Inglish), Fallucci established contact. with

ANNHTP vithout further difficulty. The meeting took place in the

restaurant of his hotel, the yaakuna, and later in his room.

We had

not at this time located AMLASH, so the time was spent briefing AMWHIF

on the local scene, and on his conduct with AlASt whan they mat.

The

meeting lasted

about one and a half hours.

Later the

same day we called AMHIP at his hotel to report

no progress in locating AMLASH.

Feeling. It advisable to keep AMHIF

occupied, we took him out to dinner at Fisketorpet, located in the

subuchs of Helsinki.

The evening lasted until 1200, terminating with a

drink at the rool par of the vaakuna.

Juring the six hours, we had an

opportunity. to explain carefully to AWHIP that in order for us to help

his friend, AlIASH must be willing to follow our directions and agree to

certain conditiong (already agreed upon bi interested Has. parties.

Antit? renlised that this was necessary, and agreed with our ideas. However,

he day asked to AMIASH, and will continue to look upon him in the most

benevSient and subjective manner. This being rather far removed from our

intended approach to, and opinion of AMLASH: AWHIP will require handling

of a close nature in order that he fully understands and is aware of our

12954

---

## Page 2

..on tid

matter.

ie closes the meeting by telling hin that we

wai harp an etfort made in the morning to Locave Aliast, and irat he

-ht as wil celes, sight-sae is he wished, and that we would be in touch

with him at intervals during the jay.

2. Events of 31 July 1962:

Our efsorts to locate MASH through UnPuM/ proved to be

Fruitless. Theadore. I: Wintergist, who was handling URuMBLa/2, said.

thet the later tried his best, but had not been able to do us any good.

_Tha station/also reported that its contacts had been unable to aid us.

He reported to AWHIP the fact that wa had not located AMASH, and suggested

that ve rave dinner together, to which he agreed.

We met AMWHiP at 2100

at, our hotel, the Kamo, and proceeded to the Royal Restaurant for dinner.

AWHIP was obviously getting on pins and needles because we had not found

his friend. He suggested chat we call up the Cuban Festival delegation,

or try some notals that evening. We persuaded him that it was not the

best idea get; and to give other people more time to locate him. He

agreed, but kept coming up with ideas all evening for ways to locate AMASH

He suggested that AMASH liked night, clubs; and that after dinner we could

perhaps try several. We agreed, more to placate him that with any thoughts

or success.

We tried several, the Brimspanken and the Treater Grill,

both of which were filled with drinking Finns, but no signs of AMLASH. The

Finns, engaging in their national pastime, obviously irritated AMWHIP, and

after being rushed around in the Theater Grill for an hour, ho

said that

he thought this vas a waste of time. We agreed, grabbed a taxi and went

home. During the evening, we told AMWHIP that tomorrow morning, if nothing

had turned up, we would start by calling the better hotels in town ourselves,

and try this rather laborious nethod to locate AMLASH. We agreed tö meet

-2-

3

---

## Page 3

s'clool: at our hotel.

3.

13 02 3 August 1952.

twit arrived at our hotel at 0945 on 1 August, and ve retired

to our roor,, telephone. Securing an outside line, our friend began

tö telepiara.:

is decided to try the local "pink" hotels first, the fleas

Karkad, end is Torni. AWHIP had no luck with the Klaas Kerkst, but when

he called the Zami, he was told that AMASH was there, and was connected

with roomie:?01. A Spanish-speaking man (who was later identified as

the newly prolated Cuban Diplomatic Representative to Finland) answered

the phone in i?. and said that AMLASH was in the shower, and call back

later if rer important..

AMsHP laft a message that ho was from Mextoo.

and that is, arlos", would call back. During the break, we instructed

him to be: on the telephone, and to talk as if the opposition was

listening.

eras just to be casual, greet AMIASH, arrange to see nim,

saying ta, ce vas. in Europe on business in Scandinavia, France and Switzerland,

and that isaris in Helsinki that AMASH was attending the Festival, he

had decides top over and contact him. When AMLASH answered the phone,

AMWHIP's ros do to, caution was abandoned, and he was off at a rapid

rate ir samir. AMLASH said that he would be right nuer to see ANte

in ii. sa vaakuna. We briefed AMWITP once more or being caroful,

and shors:i?? to the door. We arranged to have AMWHIP call us when

he cous=:? affice, urging him once more to be careful and discreet.

We hope seen. It was later learned that finding AMÄSH in this

notes ==i" pue good fortune, as he was just using this room to take

a shorer: Face was still residing in the quarters of the common delegates:

---

## Page 4

CARIE talked to AMASS for eu leust seten hours, from about

1000 1r: the morning until coproximately 1700 the same evening. en AFte

called us at 1730, he presented us with the fact that he had convinced

ALiSH to talk with us, and for this purpose, he had arranged a dinner

meeting that same evening for approximately 1930. We would have preferred

to talk longer with AWHIP about. AMASH's reactions, but time did not

permit. We arranged a dinner for 2100 at "The White Lady", a restaurant

some way from the center of town, and succeeded in obtaining a private

dining room, a practice not uncommon in this (Station recommended restaurant,

as it is often used by businessmen to have private dinners and afterwards,

business discussions.

We arrived at the White Lady first, arranged for the dinner, and

awaited AWHIP and AMLASH, who arrived at 2110 by taxi. Although AMWHIP

had suggested to us that the discussions should be merely devoted to

getting acquainted the first evening, AMASH commenced almost irmediately

into a discussion of his feelings and, his position concerning cuba today.

As reported in our cable,

1509) AMLASH was quite intense, and showed

the strain of his unexpected meeting with AMWHIP. Although obviously

under notional strain, AMASH presented his feelings in a relatively calm

mases, did was given in insinosing tha throughout the moal. He seid he

was considering not going back to Cuba, but after talking to AMVIP, he

felt that if he could do something really significant for the creation of

a new Cuba, he was interested in retuming to carry on the fight there.

He said he was not Interestea in risking is lie fur auy sail minervanings

but that if he could be given a really large part to play, he would use

himself and several others in Cuba whom he could rely upon.

These he sid

---

## Page 5

taradad duo majors (one of wnich Maste lates reported vas a militia

cormander in the center part of the island), to captains, and several

others inom inASh said he could trust, but whom he rould not name.

AMASh said he had had plans to blow up an oil refinery, as he felt that

the continuing existence. of a semolenco of noral functioning in Cuba

depended upon a continuing supply of petroieum, supplies of which, as we

know; are at a critical stage today.

He also wanted to-plan the execution

of Carlos Rodriguez and the Soviet Ambassador, end also to eliminate Fidel,

ly execution if necessary. He feels that if fidel is eliminated, It would

be much easier to effect a take-over. (We listened for the most part, but

at this point tried to esplain to AM.ASH that men like Rodriguez could easily

be replaced by Moscow, and that the killing of the Soviet Ambassador, would

have only the briefest effect on the Soviet control of Cuba.) AMLASH was

not too interested in listening at this point, and continued by saying that

if he could achieve all these actions, plus others, in one master stroke,

a take-over, during the ensuing confusion, would be much facilitated.. He

did not feei that Raul or Che would be able to rally the people in sufficient

time to prevent oposition forces frun forming. His arguments and plans rad

many flaws, but AMWHIP could not help admiring (to himself) AMLASH!'S

professed desire for vigorous and, heperully, effective actions, designed

to alter the situation in no uncertain terms. While we were making no

committments or plans, we pointed out to AMiASH that schemes like he envisioned

certainly had their place, but that a lot of coordination, planning, information-

collection, etc., were necessary prerequisites to ensure the value and success

of such plans. AMliASH said he agreed with this, but ve werent too sure just

how mich of this argiment AMASH was willing, or would belt willing, to eur.

-5-

---

## Page 6

it woe dt clear duzing the discussions. that ha was completel?

wa: ii01's use of soriet help from the first, but he had never envisiones.

an eion 1516 wire used just how insfrective it really would be towards

irin? Cuba's problems. He still feels strongly, he said, about the

ali theod the lower classes in Cuba, and in any future Cuba, he would still

Insist on a hew deal for them. AMIASH said that although he had not been

nractive in helping the formation of a beneficial new Government in Cuba,

he sas soy prepared to work towards that end:

This time, he said, he

wanted. to look more towards the future, both for his own interests and for

Cuba's. The last

time, he said that he thought only as far as the elimination

c? Baüista, and had not given consideration to planning for a government he

favored after the fighting was over. We felt that AM.ASIl meant that tie was

as much concerned about his (AMLASH's) position in the government and

personal stake in a new Cuba, as he was about anything else. It is our

impression that ALASt feels that he did not get his share of the spoils

or power from the Castro regime, in proportion to his contribution against

Patista. AMLASH is a complicated personality. It is difficult to fairly

Judge, at this time, AMASH's degree of concern for a truly revolutionized

cuba for the people's benefit, us his concern to see a new government in

cuba in which he gets just recognition.

this does not necessarily mean

that AMLASH wants high political office; but he does want credit for his

efforts and the resultant power and prestige among his countrymen.

in adcation to nis concern lor the manner in which the soviets are

"eing ruba for their nun desions in tatin america, AMÄSH 4s worried ahmit.

the extent to which Castro is using the Soviet technique of capturing the

minds of the young people and the mass propaganda efforts against the masses.

---

## Page 7

"w': cortain bhat in a couple of rears, the young people mill ue caroletel

isaber rod over do castro, and that the hasses vill legin to beliere

monse anti-imerican, anti-vest propaganda to which they are subjected.

Just as great as are AMLASH's fears about the Castro's winning of

winly minds, is his

concern thet the USA will begin to consider a status

nd tor Cuca, and in the event of any intense and successful anti-regime

/lity, such as he plans, and which looks as if it might depose the regine,

in wip will withdraw its support from such efforts in the face of serious

Treats from the Soviets, Although AMASH did not say it in so many words,

i: was apparent from the discussions that ALASH would prefer to be able to

true Cuba without any outside support (and by inference, obligations), but

so in a realist enough to concede that any efforts to overthrow Castro

mat. have the support of PIPRIME. He is, therefore, willing to enter into

scussions with a representative (s) of PEPPIE towards this and.

AMLASH agreed to meet in Paris for the purpose of further debrierings

wi to give any intormation in any field which he has. he is also most

_pillins to discuss any plans which may lead to an overthrow of the present

wvernment.: "AMLASH stated many times, however, during the course of the

matines, that he was only interested in involving himsele in a plan of

minniecant action, and ablah was vuly uoigued to dolleve rapidly nis desire

haly Cuba. (He told AWI later after we had left the meetings, that

ies was afraid that PBPRIME would continue to pursue its present course,

lat of providing money and ideas, but no ACTION!) AMTASH wAs alen mist.

lamant about not becoming involved in any way with the Cuban refugee

_relug and organizations in Miami. He said that he feels these are still

tha sume people who left Cuba, le., willing to wait for the chance to return

i amis pursue their only interest, that of making money, He also said

•47-

---

## Page 8

no Cali that the culaus there mere completely penetratoa by Castro informants:

and that for them to know of is cooperation with PEPRIM, would be the same

as telling Castro, and tus his future would end against the Wall!.. We

assured him that maximum secur ty would de practiced, as far as

these people

were concerned. He also does not wish to trust or be involved with, any

contract Cubans. Only in PBREBORS does he wish to deal. (Along this lines

AMHIP stated that he did not think it advisable to reveal any of these

negotiations to AMCONCERI/1, whom AMWHIP has known. for many years and is

quite friendly, but whom he does not feel can keep a secret of this nature:

This meeting terminated at 0030 on 2 August. The three participants

took a taxi together back to torn. AMWHIP and AMLASH stopped off at a local

right clus, leate;) Grillen, while we continued on to our hotel. No fucidents

of a security nature were observed, and it was felt that the meeting was

held without the knowledge or soservation of the opposition.

4.

Meeting of 2 August 3952.

We met with AWHIP in his hotel room (No. 142 at the Vaakuna) at

1700 hours on 2 August.

We discussed the events and talks of the preceding

evening for some time. At approximately 1800, AMASH arrived, greeted

us affably, and joined us for a drink.

AMLASh used this meeting to re-

state his vosition concerning is desire for participation in a reäliv

significant action against the Castro regime. Having decided by this time

that further discussions and debrietings of AMuSu should take place wit

a spanish-speaking c/u, we out thed the idea to meet for such a purpose in

Paria: ANTASH did not like tra idea de ton many pennia hoing munna do hea

cooperation with PBPRIME, but agreed that it would be best in order to

allow himself to express his ideas and plans better, and to be able to provide

us with his information in the greatest possible detail

-8-

---

## Page 9

•e narcuaded SHOP and AMASa that it would be best not to have

urthe meetings with them in Helsinki, but that we could continue our talks

in greater safety in Stockholn and Paris.

They agreed. AMASH also said

that he felt that he shouldn't see ANWHIP too much more in Helsinki, as he

was reginning now to make some public appearances; and his presence was

established to everyone in the city. Incidentally, prior to Thursday,

2 dUgEt, ALASt had purposely refrained from making any publio appearanses

at the festival because (1) he and the other Cubans had been aware of the

AMSPEti group and their announced intentions, and (2) AMLASH did not feel

very disposed

to play the "Public Relations" man from Cuba and espouse the

"peace and friendship nonsense", as he called it.

However, AMLASTI also said

that he felt that he had better perform this role to some extent, as it was

expected of him by Fidel, and he did not wish to provide any unnecessary

chances for unsatisfactory reports to be sent back home concerning his lach

of cooperation with the Cuban delegation.: In making the arrangements for

a Paris meeting and further discussions, AMLASH said, in response to the

question, that it would be quite normal for him to be in Paris, as he had

already cleared this with Fidel, with whom, he remarked caustically, one

had to clear everything these days. He then expressed the idea that he

munid like iu rein io faris, via siocknoim and at anairs suggestion,

spend a lew days there just relaxing. From there, or Copenhagen, he would

return to Prague for two days at most, in order to pick up his luggage,

then come as soon as possible to Paris. There, he intended to visit a

nospital of two,

as agreed upon with fidel, and spend a total of at least

a week there. He sald that if he was to retur to cuba to begin his

efforts, he did not wish to be away from Cuba any longer than necessary.

-9=

---

## Page 10

Co iano, it no motod, a sense of ungenor la beginning action against the

regime

as soon as possible.) AMMLP told us later that AcASs also was

interested in i Fan Anerican Mimi-based stewardess, whom he would have

come over to stay with him. WHIP suggested to us that he thought the

stewardess might be connected with PBPRIME. He cased this apparently on

a remark which the stewardess made concerning AMuSH's political frame of

mind last year. We answered that as far as we lew there was no basis. for

ANWHIP's thoughts along this line.) ANWHIP will try to get the stewardess

full name for us.

Meeting arrangements for Stockholm and Eelsinki vere laid on at

this meeting. AMLASH felt he had to stay until the end of the Festivai for

caves purposes.

since AWHIP had already accidentally run into several

people he knew, it was agreed that he should leave town for stockholm.in

the near future. We wuild remain behind until ALASH left, serving as ar

energency contact in the event of change in AMLASH's. plans: It was arranged

to meet AMASH if absolutely necessary, at either 1200 or 1600 each day

at a given restaurant in the center of the city. Normal security measures

for the "emergency" meeting were laid on. In Stookholm, meeting arrangements

for Paris will be established. AMWHIP departed Helsinki E Aigust and is

presumably starine at the Palace Hotel in Steake s

airauggnenis

for accommodations for AMASH there. We will follow AMLAss to Stockholm.

5. Helsinki Mectings between AWHTP/1 and Failucci

AMWHIP and Fallucci were in public together only three times for

anv langth of. time

wed despective notel rooms.

One breakfast meeting (the 5th of August) was held in the rear-deserted

-10-

---

## Page 11

ding enem of the Taskina Zotel at 1090. AlCiT? and Pallucci met at least

onse a day tiring the sojourn in Reisiniti.

AMP used: the name Willian

Bhomoser, as instructed, hon calling HAFTICH to make initial contact.

There were no incidents of a security nature observed during any of these

meetings.

Other Youth Festival Targets.

This area covered by cables

4584 and

The best

aid, actuelly, only possibility among the participants was Jose Venegas:

However, both ANASH and AWHIP did not want to become involved with him

as they felt that this, in both their cases, might compromise their

intorests in AMASH's returning to. Cuba. AMWHIP felt, for example, that

Venegas would almost certainly connect his presence here with an attempt. to

do something with AMLASH. AMLASH also felt that he did not want to disclose

ally indications

of his real sympathies to venegas, If he (AMASH) were going

to return to Cuba. Without doing this; it would be difficult to get any

reactions or opinions from Venegas, thought AMASH. Venegas, 1+ 1s felt

by AKASH, might very possibly be counted on at a later date if this was

desirable. An approach could then be worked out at that time.

As reported, AMLASH came to the Festival as a "special delegate,"

aiter his request to fidel was approved. AMASH claimed to fidel that ne

was fatigued and sick and needed a good rest in furope. The Festival

provided the excuse, Fidel bit the bait, and AMASH got to Europe

to see

AMONTe, his originel intention. AMarp felt that this 1a a logicol end

honest explanation. It is' interesting to note that neither the local

service, U/2, or any of the Cuban delegates he asked, could determine the

whereabouts of AMASH. It is perhaps reasonable to assume that the Cubans

were told not to tell of his presence to anyone not from their immediate

delegation.

---

## Page 12

?.

r's Tole in

tos been most baiptul and cooperative in estaclisting

the initiai contacts with AMASH, and he urdoubtedly does have much

influence over AMASH:

SLASH aiso trusts AWHIP explicitly, as evidenced

by his remark to us that AwHIP was the only one whom he felt that he

could fully trust and to whom he could speak openly.

Of course, he did

speak openly at length to us at the behest of AWHIP, but it is also

obvious that he does not tell us everything. AWHIP has given good advice

in the handling of AMLASH, but, as he has a tendency to interpret AMLASH's

remarks and feelings subjectively, and tó attempt to guide us a bit too

much, it might be wise to eliminate in later portions of the talks in Paris.

With a Spanási-speaking o/o, lis shuuld nui ve too difficult to do, and

without alienating AMWHIP. AMVHIP. has no clandestine training to speak of,

as evidenced by his actions in this case. However, to his eredit; he

responds readily to directions in this area, and follows rather weil suggestions

for adding to the security of the meetings. His rerark about the

advisability of keeping his old friend ANCONCERT/l out of the operation or

from any knowledge thereof, is gratifying. AMHIP also has gently explained

to us, that while he is a Cuban at heart and loves the cubans, they simply

cannet be trusted to keep secrete among any de their friends rio, fur au.

real tested reasons, they consider safe and discreet. As a general"

statement, we feel that AMWHIP is a good security risk operationally, and

that with more exposure to the game, will become a good and useful asset

under almost any circumstance. He is, however, somewhat subconsciously

subjective about his evaluations of AMLASH. He is completely honest, and is

using a considerable amount of his own money, not to mention time, in this

meration. No only hope his faith in AMAn is justifiea.

-12÷

---

## Page 13

2.

Eraluation cE and Corments aocut

our initial coments lorrarded in cabi

remain unchanged.

*here seen too little of, and cannot converse in the nevive language c

Ai: ISE, to make any strongly valid assessment of him to date. In the

sand meeting with AMLASH, he was considerably wore relaxed than in the

fiest, but just as intense about his convictions...or seemingly so: AMASi

sinted that, having decided to return to Cupa, he would enrole in an

Oiticers' refresher type course at Matanzas in an effort to reres old

Sir contacts, re-assert his position as a major in the Perolutionary Army,

ail! attent. to re-establish some recognition and following In Army and other

i emment. circles.

sake of conpleteuess, we repeai our commeats regarding

1609:

He appears capabls of rash, thoughtless, riolent

action wider the strain ci provocation:

tense situations,

or frustration.

For example, he stated to us that last year

during a period of dejection and frustration, he had con-

templated suicide.. Although AMLASH appeared to soncede

some validity to our arguments on plaring and for

carefully prepared actions,

we feel that he will present

difficult control and directional problems in ary co

situation.: He himself stated several times that he

is not the type to sit tight, but prefers soluticas

to problems by violent, positive actions. AMASE

showed the strain of not. trusting anyone. Fe was according

In AMAHTP;

overjored to see aim, and talked merry very

mich about many: many anhiste

Tt. is ant pissi:

:Ic

to comment at this time about AMLASH's sapacity zor

loyality to friends or causes; nor his zillingness to

see a job through.: However, AMIRIP assures us tzat

when AlLASH says he!ll do something, he will.

don't know at this point.

AMWHIP also told us that in discussions sucsequest to our meetings

Wt"': AMASH, he expressed the hope that "Bill" and his frend (s) in Paris

wit1 have a really fruitful, forceful idea and plan of aocion for him to

foster, Othemise, he caid ho might anoo the volo lies and noz go back,

---

## Page 14

the whole prcblem, leave the cuban fold quietly, and sore

Li Paris or eisewhere, forgetting completely Cuban problems and Cuban

politics.

ANHIP also told us on Sunday that he was truly surprised wher

AMIdSH said he wanted to go back and fight. AMWHIP was sure, as were we,

that ho rould defect, period. AMIASH told AMWHIP that he could not see

the point of raking a statement regarding defection and the state of affairs

In Cuba, and then accepting a dole in Miami. Nor could he see any use in

propaganda efforts in Latin America or Europe. Later, after our talks

vich him, AMLASH told AMWHIP a little different story, 1. e., that he

auld not want to make a public defection statement, because of the

probable repercussions against his friords in Cuba for no good reason.

This area of thinking needs to be examined at length in Paris. A Spanish-

speaking c/o might vell do the trick.

STOCKHOLM:

9: Travel to Stockholm

AMWHIP departed Helsinki for Stockholm on 4 August.: Both AMWHIF

and AMLASH felt that they had been together enough in Helsinki. AMHi

also ran onto a refugee newspaper friend of his in Helsinki who was

quite curious. as to why AMWHIP was there:

AMT iSH doperted Meloint in the

afternoon of 7. August; we took the same flight unbeknownst to AMLASH.

No problems were encountered in arriving at stockholm. We took the next

bus after Allish io the caty. Both AMASH nd AMHIP stayed at the

Palace Hotel, room 828 and 070; noor:

Tong.

Taino fla gerieral nature

were held in our hotel room (the Carlton) and during the several dinners

It was obvious that AMASH had much on his mind. He can return to the

77

---

## Page 15

spaces of cuba at any me, with a questio, suggestior, or comment moon

it, regardiess of the context of the general discussion. It was during

the talks in Stookholm that AWHIP revealed that MASH had told

sever

¡aranjo, Revellon, Venegas, and the "Mayor of Susa", Marial DOHENQUES

Ration (#, (in Helsinki) that he was seeing AMWHIP. In Helsinki, he

also told the mayor Domingues to tell Raul that he was going on his

present itinerary, and that he wanted a refresher course in the Army when

he returnei home.

COPENHACEN:

10. Travel to, and Stop in Copenhager

ARIASH and AWHIP took SAS flight 407 to Copenhagen on the after-

noon of lo august. In speaking at length about meating in Paris, AMASH

felt sure that there would be no problem in getting permission to visit

Paris after returning to Prague..

He feit that he better not visit Paris

first, as it might cause some undue interest in Prague Cuban circles

as to why he was away so long. He also had some trouble in getting the Air-

line to approve his side trips to

Stockholm and Copenhagen

They wanted

him to fly direct to Prague from Helsinki. He refused their requests,.

and said that he waild pay his own way to Stockholm and Copenhagen (or

the differance) if noon ha

footed the bill. (perhaps we should later absorb). (we felt that this

ability to pay for the extra routing might cause some suspicion among his

colleagues. AMIASH said "no", but we are not so sure. Perhaps he can tell

has money and has, in fact, paid bills before for AMASH during the time

of the Batista regime.)

-15-

---

## Page 16

Lane he 202, 2065520t2

MENIP and AMLiSH arrived as schoduled in Copenhagen and obtained

rooms at the lichnond Hotel: Ali? choned HUFINCH as planned and we

in turn contacted them by phone at the Richmond at 1845. A mesting was

arranged for 2000 at the har of the Terminus Hotel. After a drink, the

party retired to Diven I for dinner, Apparently the spell of tiroli,

Danish food and snaps; and beer at the student's inn, Faergekroen (in

Tivoli), served to mellow AMASH. He for the first time appeared to talk

to us as a friend, rather than as a PIPRIME representative.

During

supper, and for most of the evening, at intervals, AMLASH talked about

himself, his thoughts, and problems. The evening was well worth it, in

tErms

of the rapport and insight gained.

12. ALISH's Thoughts and Personality.

AMLAST feels basically that he would like to live in a world in

peace under an acceptable political system, practicing medicine,

thus

giving expression to his desire to help the less-fortunate people, and from

this to find happiness for himself, something he seeks, but which heretofore

has eluded him. As a young student he got into the struggle against

Batista without thinking much about the future, particularly that it

anna he lass than partent.

"Ho coon tmind that the apposing parties ta

Cuba, and in particular the Cormunists, were not about to bring true peace

and contentment to the people, but rather though mismanagement and poor

planning, had created unnecessary hardships for the people. After his

fightino timo tea ones les ce to thoroati, un

and leader of the FEU. This did not satisfy him and he sought to leave

politics all together, and retur to medicine. The political climate,

1-16-

---

## Page 17

herever: ann the recoplarch of NEAS as a military leador by the peaple

rather than as a doctor. fello commandantal not, Hello Doctor! forced

AMLiSt to reconsider his fature, and to decide that ne must flee Cuba or

fight against what ke considers a ruinous future for his country and

her people.

This time, however, he hopes to make the "operation"

successful, and never again subject the patient to another such ordeal.

Then when he is sure that the political and social outlook for the

Cuban people and the country are sound, he would like to try once more

to enter private life as a doctor. He is not sure, however, that this

will ever come about. AMASH was also quite frank, we thought, in his

conversation with us concerning his views on the PBRPIME position vis-ä-

vis Latin America. (And, although hẹ had noühing to say thìch hạs not boen

said by many before him, they were interesting to hear from a disenchanted

Cuban revolutionary.) He feels that PBPRIME is simply not getting "through"

to the youth and students of Latin America, as are the Communists, and for

this simple reason alone, the next ten years (when these students become

the political and economic leaders in Latin America) will see us lose

the struggle for latin America. We replied by using the old line that

PBPRIE realizes only too well today that there were serious short-comings

in our tatir American poltry for a numher nt veers and that, nna de ara

doing what we can to correct this. However, it is not our policy (said

with tongue in cheek) to attempt to alter these conditions or influence

future events by going behind the backs of the established goverments in

the marions Istin america= ecuntmits..

Instead, so must take tee gate.

slow, laborious path of working through these governments, however bad

they may be, in our attempts to guide and influence the minds of Latin

022527

-17÷

---

## Page 18

inerican youch: AliSh said that he understood why ve take this point

of view, but nevertheless, If we intended. to win the strugzle, we must

do as the tomunints do, and disregard the archaic and doomed old-line

governments in Latin America. We agreed that this was undoubtedly the

more agressive way to deal with the problem, but that such methods would

leave us open to the old familiar charges of interference in the internal

affairs of sovereign countries. AMASH smiled and replied that froma

practical viewpoint this didn't make any difference, for if we didn't

act forcefully and soon, there woulon't be any opportunities there for us

to se open to anything! He then cited Venezuela as the next obvious

communist victim and thereby a loss of another opportunity for PBPRIME.

Obviously AMLASH was correct in much of his thinking, but rather than stand-

ing still with our shoes untied, we gave him the ball by soliciting from

him, as a former student leader and politician, any ideas he might have

for combating. the Communists in the strugzle for the minds of Latin

american youth. He replied that he would be glad at any time to disucss

this problem and to offer what ideas and suggestions he could:

As a result of the discussions of this evening, we felt that

AMLASH now was genuinely interested in getting Cuba out of its present

predicament with the actire diu i fornin.

MitCh Seas

d more sincere

and interested in discussing his thoughts and problems with us than at

any. previous time. He no doubt skirmed over in his own mind (or at least

declined to reveal this to us) his record as president of the fEU. The

full story of this period from his side woma be must inuer es wing.

However, we felt that a discussion of this particular subject required the

ise of Spanish and the propitious moment.

118-

---

## Page 19

i watber of reoord;

"ANLASH stated during the evening thai he

had the Algeria's. Don Bella at one time and knows him more than casually.

Ko fe?: tas the ma roars strict watching by the west as a measure of

protecting its interests in developments in Algeria. AMASH thought

ten Bella

was a clever man, devious, and ambitious, and not to be taken too

1a raily at his word.

In dealing with AMLASH, one trait of his which confronts the co

it overy tofun is his tempermental reactions over points which would

ercrally be considered minor. For example, at one time when we were

discussing the various aspects of AMLASH's future role in Cuba; we used

the term "assassinate"

The use of this term, we later learned from

WHIP and from MIASH himself, was most objectionable to the latter, and

he was visibly upset. It was not the act he objected to, but rather merely

the choice of word used to describe it. "Eliminate" was acceptable, but

obviously the term assassinate had a distasteful connotation. From

ascussions with AMWHTP, this lable of "assassin" had been given to

ALASH after some of his escapades against Batista supporters in the

pre-Castro era. Another example, which AWHIP discussed with us, occurred

during a meeting in Mexico City in March 1961, when a KUBARKER said to

AMASH, "I'm prepared to help you in any way within my poror" According

to ANWHIP, AMLASH later turned to him, shrugging his shoulders in a manner

of saying, "So I need help from him?" These examples are pointed out

here in order to indicato the degrse of pride aud seudiulrily one fini's.

In AMLiSH, and to note that however tedious this attitude may become to

the c/o, it 1s, from personal experience, quite necessary to adjust one's

approach accordingly in order to secure AMLASH'S maximum cooperation.

-19-

---

## Page 20

13.

Paris Meting Arrancemen

AGASt has heen given Are's hotel in Paris, Franklin Hotel,

19 Rue Buffault (telephone TRU: 69LO), AHIP will reserve a room there for

AMLASH, who can come there directly after he has landed in Paris.

We

also had anöther contact address in the form of the office of a jeweler

friend and business contact of hate's;M. B. Rosenblatt, 20 cite-Treuise

Rosenblaty's number has not been given to AMiASH.

In discussing security precautions with AMWHT, It is obvious, that he

still is not possessed of a good sense of security by normal clandestine

ops standards. This, however, can be improved over a period of time.

Note:

Subject expressed interest in obtaining

expert instruction in use of silenced-equiped

rifles and in use and handling of plastic.

explosives. This can be handled from France

on priority basis, 't is felt, after preliminary

discussions in Paris:

PARIS:

14. Events of 12 August 1962.

according to prior arrangenents with AWHIP and AMASH, AWHIP

would see AMLASH off to Zurich frch Kastrup Airport on 12 August, then

talo a late afternoon fllght doin to Paris. As it turned out, however,

AMTASH was able to book a passage on a Rumanian Airlines (Tarom) flight

to rrague, via last berLin's schoenielat alrport. AwwHlY later took

the early evening flight to Paris; we took the 1150 AF flight the same

- night.

In Paris, AMWHIP took a room (#60) as planned at the Hotel Franklin,

where he remained throughout his stay in Paris. He also booked a room

fOr AMIASH. We arrived in Paris as 0145, 16 August, booking a room

(#41) at the Hotel Roblin, 6 Rue Chareau-Lagarde (ANJ-5700):

-20-

MU

---

## Page 21

15. trents cr 13 dagust 1952:

Ca the morning of 13 huglist, we checked into HerINCH to discuss

the Paris meetings with Peter i. Kimington. Thru his good officewe were

abie to arrange so precautionary survéillance of amate and AMLASs,

obtain

us? of a Station gafehouse, and effect other arrangements as

15-4

necessary.

The cooperation and help of the Paris Station was excellent.

Following this meeting, we went to a small bistro near our botel, phoned

AWHIP, and arranged for a meeting in our hotel room at 1830.

This meeting took place in our hotel room (#41) at the Hotel

Roblin, at 1830. The purpose was merely to acet WwHIP and re-assure him

that arrangements for AMLASH's meeting were laid on.

We also made

arrangements to give hin his expenses for the trip and account for same

during a meeting the following day. This will permit him to leave for

Milan without delay at the close of our business with AMLASH. He was

getting "nervous", as he called it, and will be glad to get this business

over and done. We agreed. He wanted to remain until the conclusions of

the talks with AMLASH, however, for he felt that he could be of use in

handling AMLASH. We agreed. He did not, of course, want to be in on

any operational discussions, but just to be on hand to guide his

tampermental "chango"

He was very anxious to meet wallace A. Growerya in order to

point out to him in advance some of the quirks in AMASH's personally.

In talking to us, AMWHIP said that a person with the background of

AMWilP told us that while he is of course subjective about AMLASH, he also

realized that he is of a different background and make-up (flattery?)

than either we or himself, and that in order to get him to produce and

cooperate, the problem must be approached in a certain way.

He said

127-

---

## Page 22

in wor wiid and independent.

He does not want, to feel he has

to take neig tron alyone, Annir said that this is a rather naive way to

looks at it. lus uSt does, and for this reason, one must be careful

not to appear to be buying him.

We said that we understood this; and were

willing to advance our arguments in any lanner necessary to get AMLASH's

cooperation,

but that eventually AMLASH must be made to realize that,

though he is.of no little importance to us, he is after all, the only one

man with one non's resources:

ANNHIP continually stressed the point that to work with people

like AMLASH, it was necessary to have them first accept a person either

by personal contact over a period of time or on the recommendation of a

good friend. He felt that while it was necessary for us to spend some tine

becoming acquainted with AMLASH, It also might be necessary for Growery

so go s10w at first. This, we said to AWHIP was all right; up to a point,

but that-we felt quite enough time had been spent with AMLASH already,

and that the meetings in Paris were going to get down to business quickly,

and proceed as necessary to conclude business as rapidly as possible.

ve felt that AMHIP understood our point.

During this talk, AWHIP again expressed the feeling that if

cuba 1s not returned to freedon within two years, he was goine lo sei

up business permanently in Paris or Southern California, and forget the

Idea of retuming. He was obvious moved by the finality of such a decision,

ão be is a reai cuba paurivi.. ur so we celieve.

We agreed to contact AMWHIP by telenhone at his hotel at Tenn

on Il August (Tuesday). Subsequently a reeting at 1700 in our hotel room.

- 22-

---

## Page 23

16. 222/22 22 34 152st: 1962.

As agreed, we called Anal at his hotel at 1200 on 24 August

and arranged a meeting for 1700 in our hotel room.

At the 1700 meeting

A'HE informed us that AWASH had arrived as promised from Prigue about

noontime, and vas alread, irquiring about a meeting time with "the mar

fion anington. AWHIP was told that "the man fron Washington", (whom

they in the future called "Jaime" as they could not readily pronounce

Grovery's true first name) was not able to arrive before that afternoon,

and that a meeting with him could not take place before the 16th. Also,

ACHIP was reminded that he himself had stated that it would be best for

him (ANTIP) to talk to Jaine first in order to explain AlASH's personality.

AHIP was unhappy that this meeting could not take place immediatey,

but said he would explain the matter to AMLASH. This meeting, it is noted,

took place initially at a small cafe across the street from our hotel.

15 - 4:

so that we could finger AMHIP to two surveillants of the Paris Station.

The two principles then retired to or hotel room for the remainder of the

meeting. We said to AMWIP that we would check in with him by phone the

following day and inform him whether there was any chance of Jaime

arriving on that day, the 15th.

At this meeting, AWHiP was aiso paid $350.00 do curat hotel

bills for him and AMASH In Helsinki, Copenhagen and Stockholm.

15. Events of lh August 1962:

We phoned AlmilP at his hotel at lamn to infor him that there

was no change in plans and that the best we could do was to call him

again that evening. AMWHIP said that he would be out all evening;

arrangements were then made that AMWHIP should call us at our hotel at

-23-

---

## Page 24

2200. Sinsequanti, AshIP uid callies agreed, and was inforned that he coula

plan to sume to our room tomorrow, the lúth, at 0900.

The hour bothered

him (t00 67-1y) lnt he said he could nase it.

Later the same evening, Kymingion, Growery and us met to

discuss plans for the meetings tomorror. At this meeting Kymington

disclosed that his team had detected what was believed to be survellance

of AMWHIP and AMLASH. To be positive he plarned to have the meeting the

next day surveilled. Growery agreed to come at 0900 for preliminary talks

with AMWHIP.

16. Events of 16 August 1952.

Growcry arrived within five cutes of appointed time at

our hotel room. AMHIP arrived later at 1015, apoligizing for his tardiness

(a late evening!). Breakfast was provided and, after Introductory amenities,

the two begon their talk, in Spanisk.. Tha talks terminated at 1230.

The second meeting of the day was postponed until 1600, as AMLASH was not

feeling too well

Later at the station, mision revealed that no nor bellered:

the morning meeting had been surveilled and that efforts were being made

to determine who was responsible. It was readily established that it was

...'

me frec servIces

or local pollue. Since it was pointless to stop the meetings now and

he address of the salehouse had not been mentioned verbally, it was

ecided to continue as planned.Paris will forward account of surveillanc

a dune as soon as persiane. anente celt caris, it was determined

that this "surveillance" of our meeting night have been a truly freak

coincidence, and the subject of the surveillance was another target, not

150

-uS. We don't think so.

However the reading@arts/report should resolvo this.)

:-211

---

## Page 25

Crotter and'se arrived at the safehouse

ahead si Muish and Metap, A bape recorder was installed.

At 1615,

ALASt and MaP arrived. shortly after introductions, Usovery and.

AMLASH were talking business in Spanish. After about 30 minutes, we took

AWHIP out of the flat on the pretense of buying food, in order that the

two principles could talk freely. Procuring food and beer, we returned

after a two hour absence, and made a cold supper for the four. The meeting

terminated about 1930, A-LASH and AMWHIP leaying some 15 minutes before

us. Arrangements had been made for a meeting at 1000 the following day

for further talks, and beginning 10 /W training.

17. Events of 17 Augist 1962.

At 1000 Grovery met with AMLASH for several hours. Arrangements

were made for AMLASH to return to the safehouse for s/w training that

afternoon at 1400. (See Sw training report for account uf meeting.)

Before breaking up, arrangements were made for a continuation of the s/w

training the following day.

18.

Events of 18 August 1962.

(See SW report for account of training this meeting conducted

at the aforenentioned safehouse.

Account of debriefing of AM.ASH during

this meeting and others to be filed by Growery. All debriefing of AMASH

by Growery was conducted in the Spanish language.)

19. Events of 19 August 1962.

Meeting was heid au 1900 au safehouse. Account of coting to

he included in Growery's reporting.

-25-

---

## Page 26

20.

Bens S039 10006 1353:

remington and grovery picked us up at Madalaine church at 0600,

and proceeded to rendoyous with AMuSil, Counter-surveillence detected

no apparent observation of the pickup of us. The four then proceeded by

car to the fry Air Corps Support Element at St. Andres, for te demonstration

and instruction in plastic explosives. The classroom work and the field

demonstration lasted until 1430, at which time the four proceeded back

to Faris. AMLASH was let out of the car in the suburbs and told to

take & taxi back to his botel, Kymington took some snapshots of AMTASH

receiving this instruction. These are not too satisfactory, but neverthe

less, will be enlarged and forwarded for the files.

The participants mot. later that croning at 2100 for a drink and

critique and connents of the days activities.: AMLASH seened quite

satisfied with the demonstrations, but was interested in having smaller

explosive packages with more force, and a remote control method for

detonating then. The neeting was short and broke up at 2200. It was.

agreed to meet once more on 22 August for a final briefing sesson at

Growery's hotel room (in the (ri)lon) at 1200.

21. Events of 22 August 1962.

AlAStl came alone and on time to this neeting.. A tave recoider

was in operation. About one hour was spent on a review of sw, followed

by requirements, and tasks to be performed or looked into upon AMASH's

reius. (See rowery's report for tasks and S/w report for this section

of meeting.) Arrantements for emergency contact in Paris were

sat. "n

using the phone af a contract KuBARkeR/of Paris Station:

AMWHIP and

we made arrangements for a meeting at Queenie's for 1000,

23 August,.

-26

---

## Page 27

22. Orcata tr 23

st 2262:

At the noring reeting, AWHIP said that, ALASH wanted to see

us on a ratter concering 3/1. Tho meeting was arranged for 1300 at the

rue Spontini safehouse.

This meeting took only a few minutes as te

problen was minor. AMLASH and AMVHIP departed the safehouse at 1325.

We left a little after. This was the last tine we were to see either

AMLASH OF AWHIP in Europe.

23. Events of 25 August 1962.

AMLASH departed for Prague. We left Paris at 1045 aboard PA1 119

for New York.

26. Miscellaneous Comments ou Case, Fersonalities, and Actions in Paris.

Alast's attitude in Parts was essentially that which it had

been during the previous contacts in Scandinavia, that is, changeable as

the weather, varying from occasional flashes of wit and mirth to degrees

of discouragoment and perhaps despondency. He was gererally receptive and

interested in procedires and conversations during the meetings and during

periods of instiuction..

He makes little attent to disguise his feelings,

should he become tired, bored, or disinterested. His social greces aro

not the sharpest honed. He can, however, be reasoned with, even in some

of his contrary noods.

ANNHIP was partimerly sascotive as causing num

during these. We are in complete agreement with AMWHIP when he describes

AMLASH as being fill of complexes. But further than that, AMASH not only

has unpiaxes as such, but it is folt taat he is generally preoccupied

with his thoushts pragmahly short

2aoar Guvan, anu tS orten seemingly

Incapable of maintaining his interest in things about him for any length

-27-

stars: =

- see:

---

## Page 28

on time. IS one is discussing Cuba, hoteves, he ooriously is ver.

interested.

thereiore, Iu night neil be thashe is sotuaily so pre-

occupied with thoughts about problens at home, that all else is secondary

and treated accordingly. When, on occasion; he "opened ip" a bit with us,

It was obvious that he had done, and was doing, a great deal of thinking

about Cuban problems. It may be that Growery will have much more to say

oi this point; as their discussions were in AMASH's native tongue. on

many occasions, ALASH is rather exasperating to deal with, but ive feel

this Is a trait of his which is a normal laoft of his personality,

and not assumed to try the metal of his case officers. We may. be wrong,

but doubt it.

27.

Physical Apearance:

AMTASH 1s about 5'Il", weighs abont 175 Ibs., dark wavy hair,

thinring noticably on top and usually needs combing; brown eyes, small,

amost petulant mouth, small nose, pale complexion, eyes are a little

small for his face and very intense in expressinn. He prefers dressing

informally, and is prone to wearing jackets with no tie. (He could

mingle with the typical small town corner-loungers without difficulty.)

When dressed up, he presents a good appearance in a masculine way, and

apparenty irom inHIris stories, does quite weil with the women. Concerning

the question of his being a honosexual, we cannot say whether he has a

hidden bent in this direction, but if he does; he is not at any rate, a

purist. hut rather Ar-Do.

28:

Language:

Native Spanish, fair to good Inglish, but with linited focabulary.

He can be successfully conversed with using English, but it has to be

done slowly and with baste constructed sentences. It ds not possible to

be articulate with him, if he is expected to grasp the full meaning of the

conversation.

- 211

---

## Page 29

ALast is separated fron his wife, and stated that since he is

going to undertake to work agatnot the regime, he could not go back to her

If ho wanted (which we doa't think he does) as she has been too outspoken

In her dislie of the Castro regime and of her desire to get out of Cuba.

AMI.SSil's mother lives with him as she is divorced from his father

AMASI's father is in the tailoring business and has recently married

a gial many years his junior. AMLASH does not approve.

30. Girl Friends.

AMTASH is on good terms with a Pan American stewardess of French

descent who is based in Miami. AWHIP said to us that he thought she was

with us, but we replied we really did not know.

AMLASH also is friendly

with the Cuban dancer Sonia CALERO, whom he telephoned from Paris to give

tie retur date to Havana.

31. : Pastimes.

AMLASH Iikes nightclubbing and dancing. He is also interested

to a limited degree in architecture and historical buildings and sculpture.

It is interesting to note that AWHIP was reluctant to answer

many questions about AMLASH's private affairs. He felt that this was not

obtained by elicitation rather than direct questions.

32. AMLASH's Original Schedule in Paris.

AMIASH was interested in coming to paris, executing his bustress

with us in the first three days, then checking into the cuba House on a

small hotel on the left bank, and socializing with the Cubans at their

Embassy in Paris:

He also wanted to spend some time on the Riviera

-29-

---

## Page 30

(sorara daolas he felt, or no he told atrire, it may be some time

before he would see this area again. As it turned out, scheduling for

the drovery moelings, sly training, and plastics demonstrations precluded

his taking the Riviera trip, and also postponed his seeing his Cuban

friends.

ite finally went to the bassy on Tuesday, 21 August to make

what contacts he felt were necessary. As it turned out, Granatges and

most of the men were away on vacations, etc., so that his late showing at

the Embassy was not a problem at all. No plans had been laid on for his

entertainment by the Embassy, and no one, it turned out, was expecting

him at any definite time after his leaving Prague. He felt mich better,

WHIP reported. after he had made the Embassy appearance and learned

the above facts.

33. Money Banked by AMLASH.

At our last meeting with AMWHIP. on 23 August, he said that

AMLASH had given him $500.00 to be banked in Paris or elsewhere against

a rajny day. It is also interesting to note that while AWHIP said that

any offer of money to AMASH would be an affront to hin AMLASH readily

allowed AMMlIf to pick up the tabs for the hotel rooms and all expenses

Incurred during the trip, Including a number of new pieces for his wardrobe,

and the plane tickets to rrague from raris. away said that when they

dined together on 22 August, AMLASH insisted on picking up the tab, stating

that he felt he should get this one, then expressed surprise at the

expense of living in Paris. Neither did AMASH seem to worry when it was

We who picked up several tabs in Scandinavia. Funny sense of obligations

and finances!

Чивнят влили

RICHARD MA FALLUCCE

NEW FE

---

