# 104-10215-10117

## Page 1

104-10215-10117

• * :8 1951

TO

* Director

Federal Burean of Investigation

Attention:

Mr. 8. J.

Papich

F304 & Deputy Director (Plans)

201-252234

SUBJECT & Rolando CUrLA Secades

On 17 March 1961, Rolando CUBILA Secades telephoned fron

Havana, Cuba, to a peraonal friend, Carlos TEPIDINO Goazales, la

Few Vort CIty. CUULA ASked TEPEDINO to placa an order ¿or two

car springs end to deliver the aprings to lanuel "Manolito" PEREZ,

a meabar of the Cuban delegation to tha Peace Conference held in

larice city in early Harch 155l.

FIRST and "El Gordo Gerardo"

reportedly lived at the Hotel Tudor, Loom 1509, 304 Bast 42nd

stroat, law Xori.

Tha above Information was given to a representative ot

this

igency by Carlos TEFZDINO Consales, a long-time contact.

TEPLIHO So slao A long tina acquaintanos of CUiSia. The latter

Individual So Prasidont of tha Cuban Univarsity Studente Fsderation,

Presidont of the newly forned Revolutionary Vigilance Comnittee and

dalegate to the Psace Conference In lazico, S 8e 8 March 1951.

VETERINO, whose addran lo liated in this Agoncy's file ae 380 Flech

Avenus, Hew York City, care of laidore DOLINGER Diasondo, do a

Cuban Jewaler who forarly lived in Havana. Be le also raported to

se a parter 1n Corlata Incorporatod, New York City.

3o According to TAPBDINO, Manual "Manolito" PERE% la a manber

of Cuben G2.

TRIEDINO Indicated he do uncertain as to whether

he Reiand CUrRiA really denires the ear aprings ordered or ta

merely andeavoring to nerdue his, TIPSDINO, that PEREZ le connacted

with cuban intelliganes.

This Agency®s Elles reflect no pertirent Identifiable

Internation on "Bl Gordo Carardo". Namuel SEREZ may be Identieal

with Manuel de Jesus PERRB Hernandes, a secretary assigned to tha

Cuben Forument Delegation to the United Nations. PEREZ has alde

been reported to be a member of c-?.

The abovo report is for your confidential infornation enly

and should not bo disseminated outside your Bureau.

C3C1-9/764, 709

WHL/4/CI/

i se

31 March 1961

Distribution:

Orig & 1 - Addressee

- RI

83057

1 - CI/R8A

1: - CI/LIA

&S COPY

201-252234

Based on: MEXI 7686 (IN 4892):3/30/61

1 • WH/4/R

HP8SA-16702, 3/22/61

2 - 6H/4/C1

---

