# 104-10165-10169

## Page 1

104-10165-10169

CLASSIFY TO PILE oA..

I-DIE TO FILE NO. -

SOILE BIO PET. TO BRANCH O

DESTIOT LO SIG.

F&Ju

IMWAVE

BETIDE

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

TOTAL COPIE

SECRET

SOTIFIED

MR. NAPoLi

O RID COPY

REPREOUeT ION PROMIBITED

US IT

227%

3000600261.

SECRET 3191262

16-26

IMEDIATS

INFO I-MEDIATE DIF

CITE ЧАХ

DYVOUR

PeRUMEN

PEF

STARIN 4225C)*

1pe

1.

PLANE PROCUREMENT-PROELEM DIFFICULT DUFY

SUT HAVE STARTED TRY VORK OUT SOLUTION, TRYING ARRANGE CHARTER

IN AIICORE-2) NAME DC-3 TYPE AIRCRAFT. WAVE AIR OFFICER USING

CLEARED CONTACT WITH

AS FRONT IN TRYING

ARRANGE CHARTER WITH OTHER SER SERVICE SUCH AS MACEY AIRLINES.

CLEARED CONTACT WOULD TELL SUPPLIER THAT AMCORE-2 WEAD OF

CROUP TRAVELLING NEYSMEN STRANDED SDOM THRU PLANE FAILURE, ADD

AMICORE-2 KNOWN TO HIS AS RELIALE PERSON AND HE WILLING VOUCH

FOR AMCORE-2 FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND IF NECESSARY TO

ADVANCE CHARTER PRICE. CONTACT WOULD TELL SUPPLIER AMCORE-2

VILL ARRANGE NECESSARY LANDING, REFUELLING CLEARANCES AT SDOM

CONMERCIAL AIRPORT.

2. IF SUCCESSFUL IN ARRANGING CHARTER, MAY WISt FOR

COVER REASONS THAT AYCORE-2 SEND CABLE (PHONE NOT NECESSARY AND

BIGHT CONFUSE SITUATION TO SUPPLIER CONFIRMING REGUEST FOR

CHARTER FLIGHT. WILL ADVISE LATER RE DETAILS.

-

308

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Onty

Do Not Reproduce

4/pJ

---

## Page 2

14-00000

i Banned

(N 42307 82-2

3. IN ORDER TRY ADD COVER AT SDOM END SUGGEST ANCORE-2

INSICATE TO HIS PARTY THAI INBERT PROVIDING HIM WITH SUNDS I-1Q

TO SHARTER REPLACEMENT PLANE TO SET GROUP EACH TO MIAMI.

CATE THE PASS FUNDS TO ANCORE -2. POSSIBLY

COULD SET INSE?T

TO BACKSTOP STORY HE GAVE SONEY TO AMCORE-2.

SECRET

CF8: 5413 6745 AMCORE-2 C5-3 (KUBARK)MACKEY AIFLINES - 2 THRU

-2-2-2-2 NOT NECESSARY RE -2 IMBERT MIAM! -2 IMPERT -2

BT

* PRIVATE AIRCRAFT

SHOULD BE

OBTAINED

- NGET

FOR TRIP.

3/00

---

