# 104-10216-10411

## Page 1

104-10216-10411

AMLASH-I

PROCESSINO

DISPATCH

SUCEFOR

Chies of Btatios, Madrid

BEPO

Chief, MA; Colos, Fa

Cale! of Statios, MrAVS

Oparational/ DTYOUR/PORTREN/AHOT

Letter fron AMASS 80 50uen" 1801

ACTION REQUIRED SURRENCES

Destos Roguired! Bens. Ver Your lator ties.

Beforence: MADR-6849, 11 Jane 1888

BE MIDDLES CLUTELA

CAR ROLL ACCRAS

AESTRACT

CROFILE

Horuarded under seperato cover fer addressess" informtien

18 ANOT FODOrE KN-3S09, 18 MAY 1965, wiCh COStALIN • ErADalREICE

Ol & letter dAtON & HAY IONS FrOM ALTAAT-S to "uCO" LEON, Walea

ma provided to AlCRAGI by LEON.

12o letter sontly concerm tha

eituation 1a too Domlatera Berablic, but thare 1a mation of

Quors-l's recall to One end the feet that there wire no proble

upon his arrival in Savaas.

Attachut:

Diatribatles:

2 - COS Hadrid, 121

DIETE TYPED

10 June 68

GRAISCN STRESOL AND MAGNICH

LO3301T

QUOTE DIRFKTCAEN

"ras

88c8NT

201-71072

---

## Page 2

14-00000

BICRBT

1O TROM C-306- 174M47-2

SUITICT ContaCtE in Spain.

gx-3309.

18 May 65.

[-3239.

J'ollouing do a tranocilption of the letter receivod by kiguol

S. do LEDi ROJAS, aXa "CUDO" LEGi, ETCH CArlOS JORge RUBIiO

Marlogues to LE In Spain:

"5 say 1955.

"FIlend Cucos.

•I as HIltlag thana lines ton OrensO UhaO I Cara tO FICTi

a son daya toyether ulth sard no do seill vorting haro. (20202.0°

ulte, uho lo an artist, to vortlog in Oranso.)

irat of all-nithough I laagine you alroady knou it bocaise

S.IbOILO (A1D0IZ0 LINO BIASCO ROdIIqUaT) tOld DE De Mould call you

EIDE PaIIO, lEE Do tell you that iscaty Monty lE J038 ILlo smiLi

callarreta lão mas socallad to cuba) had no problems when ho arrived

In lavena, uhich mans that for the the being there are so probles

•and that thore have been no leak».

"on the Sires List of May?/ I valtod for soma o1 the thingo valet

¿bad boon piannod to taro plaos, but thay did not. However, & iracIstand

that the loainlean problen might have altacted both those on tha inalée

and those on the eutalãs, thone on the outaldo on eccoust 0: t20 65905-

vigllanco which dust bave boon establlebod, nod those os the lasico di"

account of the gamial alert or restilation to quarters oscared as a

preventire seasure and chich satan any typo of no umat ipossible.

I savo coxplote and very laterantlay seporto en all that, spainentiya.

Luck is not very nuch with us, but as 10ng an it doss sot abaccon un

complately ve will surely attain our objectives. I have very

Intoresting thinga da my bands, received through ou best allies on

the inside through too chameln which you steady nou so sali.

"Zeyarding the "Erlanda" (as you call theml, I hope the Doafnlea

altals will vero then up a bit and that choy 11ll soo their ener le

not in viot inn but Ilghe under that moons tay might thirs that

the Dontalcan affalo has boen a victory for them lt migbt be so, but

= Pyrible vlotory. I don't my this as cuttlois of thals action 1a

santo soningo becauss, in the dad. it the the only thing which they

coald do because that phing roula surely sara dallas lato consunlos

ABCRET

---

## Page 3

SECRET

42-3309, C-900, 18 May 69 (e0nz.)

honia. But the thing is to provest thoes conditions. from baing

crested, da no one can uls even 11 there la letervention. And to

thini that they closed the doore to un for tha tely ta valca ne

, would have bean so useful and vould have covered all the true

plotters of the Amricas, 111, & hopo that at least this sill

holp to opon theres of tsa "irlende and tsat thale Infalilblo

colphy will be able to tall apart those sno can really help thes

17 theis struggle la the Daniaphare as allies, not as employees.

and those othere uho alala to cooperate wits thea but tho only rate

# 1hvtng Out of thas and cannot balp tbon becaure they don't have

anything, as you know that thay are neen with centerpe by the read

man tho have things to fight with and sino are villing to do it sest

I to than, ploade sorgdro this seabling, but I had to got it oll sy

chant. You understand things wolf and va have asalogous ideas

about the thinge of Cuba. That 15 my & chose you.

#401l, Cugulto, give an enbrace to ll for so and tell bin that

ovesything vill alraya costino to so the same for our side end that.

In fact, ta hava naves seda elonas do the endo a hope to see you

cool dr to hans tron gol, moccava sa enbrace fron your friend.

"JORgO

hite to no to mirid becaus & have te be back thare on tha

ath, by necessity, due to things which & an exposting fIos our

countsy."

---

