104-10187-10048 a .

Mon" | Western Hemisphere Division

oo Mexico City =
Prereyy 'seaven
eee at

Tani ort vee

aida Charlotte Bustos-Videla
woow wo. ceresrrs l Tatension

remanarion | ROE Langley 4506
CONCURRENCES OF DIVISION

om
Moxico

[Coos eEMoRANDUM

0. Tes 90 [.

2iee | {| f
—helstou_ ees (Ezee LESSEE

—— “a ie
RTL re

Wetbtom—Heed_

Desmond Fi uses FES ft

CONCURRENCES OF OTHER COMPONENTS T
“FL Staff 15 Jan g fe |
cl Starr a2 Jan 65

z rRNA
E i resto Hi TOTAL AVOUT

1 December 19p4 30 Nov 1965] ¢ 45,300.00

463 B48 SECRET



Tre following aot Baudpment

pop/Pa/FI
as Gee

PROJECT BRIEFING

PROJECT: LIEMPTY WH - Mexico City

“ACTION : ADD/P approval of renewal 1 Dee 64.- 30 Nov 65

PURPOSE: To provide photographic and physical surveillance i
coverage of the Soviet Embassy compound. id

PROGRESS: One basehouse (LIMITED), which provided coverage of the
main gate of the Embassy, was evacuated in September 1964
because of security implications stemming from release of
the Warren Commission Report. Thé future of this
property hes not yet been determined but the Station has

‘ acquired another apartment on a temporary basis to replace
the LIMITED coverage. The Division believes that three
photo bsasehouses directed against the Soviet compound are’
Justified as well as the mobile coverage provided by
LICNTHAP, During the past year two indigenous employees
were terminated in the interest of economy. During the
coming year Oliver G. SCANTLING (p), contract agent, is
expected to assume other duties and responsibilities not
connected with this project, Therefore, salary and
expenses are requested for only six months. During a
nine month period the project produced 770 rolls of
operational still photographs, of which 595 were con-
cerned directly with the Embassy compound. Based on the
performance and overall contributions of the project
during the past year, the Station concludes that the
project is essential to the fulfillment of the RMD and
should be continued in the coming year.

FUNDS : $45,300 $27,675 in.FY 65 $17,625 in FY 66

Salaries:
Raymond H. GERENDE $ 6,500
Oliver G. SCANTLING o
Basehousekeepers and lab assistants (10) 25,600
OF rowed maintenance 2,000 :
neconns orsteuE MER a uetiities 63600

= Usit etd [1 LK

Ton, eite
~ 4 cyurdinate
», &f oppropriato.


PREVIOUS
APPROVALS:

STAFF
COMMENTS :

rey

1 Dec
1 Dec
1 Dec
1 Dec
1 Dec
1 Dec

63
62
61
60

38

“renee

= 30 Nov 64
- 30 Nov 63
- 30 Nov 62
~ 30 Nov 62
~ 30 Nov 60
- 30 Nov 59

$49,700
49,900
Bh’ o10
95,380

FI, CI and Central Cover Staffs concur in approval.

FI STAFF:

Commends the Station's success in re-
ducing expenses and maintaining its effectiveness.
Suggests that use of LIMITED installation as a
radio basehouse from.which surveillance teams were
dispatched may have been a security target. FI
Staff suggests that the Station pursue the problem
with Office of Communications: personnel.

rap

ou!

ET
