# 104-10433-10068

## Page 1

104-10433-10068

127 - 589

26 November 1963

Disposition - This document was denied. The document consists

entirely of information provided by a foreign liaison service. The document

also contains operational cryptonyms, information confirming the existence

of several Agency stations abroad, information confirming the nature of a

(liaison agreement with a foreign service, information identifying Agency

components and information which constitutes internal Agency filing

• instructions. The main thrust of the substance involved here relates to

the reactions of several people tu the assassination of President Kennedy on 26

were Communist but never in any way connected with assassination

activities. This denial was made under the authority of exemptions (b) (1),

(b) (2) and (b) (3) .

---

## Page 2

13-00000

dotion 19

auti

ING

116 26 NOV 63 c/s

Signed:

70

• ERECTOR

R.0. *2 - Unto U/RTA

2

3

FROM • BERN

late: Il destruction

cite

codsongpara coordinat

ATION E/EE 3 (CiO'NEAL) ANO E HOTTIE AND COPY SLOTTED 15C0 25 NOV 63 LAS

80-449

CCI, D/DC8, DOP, ADDP, S/CI, C/SR 2, D/OS 2, VR)

ADDED: C/WH 5 (ACTION) VR

(EGRET 618052

2680483 168312

IPNED LATE DIR INFO IMMEDIATE

GNVA

ITE BERN 2492

CLASSIFICATION "NAF 1976

CONDUCTED ON_

E. IMPDET OL SY0IZ208

¿AITERNOON 26 NOVEMBER INANIT ION 17 PASSED TO ODENVI

NET PERM ANTION REPORT WHICH QUOTED IN FULL IN ORIGINAL TEXT

IN PARA I BELOW.

@ENVY REP IMMEDIATELY NOTIFIED ELMARD

AND AFTER DISCUSSION REPORT CONTENT IT AGREED THAT ELMARD

VOULD CONTACT INANITION SOONEST, IN ABSENCE INANITION 20 MATTER DISCUSSD

6

4

BY PHONE WITH INANITION 6.ELMARD EMPHASIZED UTMOST IMPORTANCE

WHICK COYOKE ATTACHED TO FOLLOWUP THIS MATTER, RECEIVED PROMPT

ANSWERS TO INITIAL GUESTIONS (SEE BELOWS AND ARRANCED MEET WITH

INANITION 2O, INANITION 6 IN COMPANY WITH ODENVY REP BERN.

2. SUBS IS RICHARD THOMAS GIBSON, BORN 13 MAY 31 LOS ANGELES,

US CITIZEN, RESIDES LAUSANNE SINCE APRIL 63. NEGRO JOURNALIST,

for FOIA Review on

APR 1976

ACSIVE VEW YORK CHATTER FAIR PLAY FOR CUBA COMMITTEE CFPOC,

Document Number

127=

SINCE ITS ORCANIZATION IN 60.

BERN FILE REFS ESBA' 12659,

ESCW 1059,

BERN IRE

INA. ANDRA 34821, DIR 64180,

ESRYR

99545)

DELA: 39346,

ESCA, 5501

BOTH STATION AND

DENVY REP BERN HAVE BEEN INAU

COORDINATED , CONTACT

201-289248)

WITH INANITION RE SUBS AND PUBLICATION LA

700-5-41)

REVOLUTION AFRICAINE.

IS COPY

267100630

D: 2005-41

*14.

SECRET.

---

## Page 3

13-00000

CLASSIED MESSAGE

BEHET

80312

-. PAGE

3. FOLL TEXI INANITION MEMO.

REFERRING TO EARLIER CORRESPONDENCE IN WHICH WE GAVE

INFORMAT TON ON GIBSON RICHARD THOMAS, BORN 13 MAY 1931

AT LOS ANCELES, JOURNALISI AND TRANSLATOR, US-PP. NO. B-1319010

ROHIORSO, LAUSANNED WE JUST LEARN PRON A DELICATE SOURCE THAT

ISSES HAS ACQUAINTED WITH LEE HARVEY OSWALD

IN A CONVERSATION SONA

23 INQU CHORNING: GIBSON MADE THE FOLLOWING COMMENTS CIN FRENCH)

OF WHICH WE QUOTE-VERBAL-T HE MOST IMPORTANT PARTS?

MUNKNOWN INTERLOCUTOR: SINCERES CONDOLEANCES QUAND MEME.

weir

O SEESON: AN OUI, EL, PUIS ENCORE, LE TYPE ETAIT UN DES NOTRES!

HE NANONNA CHEST US DINGUE (FOU .

103

CISSON AN' AVATS DE LA CORRESPONDANCE AVEC LUI, C'ESS

UN, rous

FON ANCIEN MARIN.

UNKNOWN. CA PLUT AVOIR DES CONSEQUENCES INCROYABLES.

ParasoN! cur, out. JE NE SUIFFPAS MECONTENT NON PLUS,

MAIS CEST POINT LA TACON DE CHANGER LES IDEES.

UNaIN, TU COMPIENDS, ST MAINTENANT, ILS VEULENT ENGAGER UNE

CAMPAGNE POUR INVAHIR CUBA, IL NY A PAS DE PROBLEMESA

TOUr DE MENE, C'EST TRES GRAVE.

orater on serenes

GrasoN? our,

VAIS ALSO C'EST UN TYPE QUI RETE PORTE A MA

SCONNALSSANCE FLY A DEUX ANS, PARCE QUIL ETATT ARRETE

POUR AVOIE CES. -VIVE FIDEL" DANS LES RUES DE DALLAS

AU TEXAS ALONSAL CAVATE TOUTE UNE HISTOIRE, IL MA

ECR IT DES LETTRES ET IL EST DEVENU; MEMBRE DU COMITE SUNITELL-

IGIBLE)

<: INTER GUMPANT) DE CUBA?

GIBSONS QUI, JAI LA RADIO ICI,

ON A DEJA: PARLE DE NOTRES

MILT

SHEE

---

## Page 4

13-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

IN 69212 PAGE 3

CỐN ITE CUNITELLIGIELE) ET TU PENSES, PAUVRE LY (PHONETIQUES

A NEW YORK.

UNKNOUNI CE DOIT ETRE AFFREUX.

GIUSON: IL EST DANS UN BAIN ET AUSSI POUR TIBOR (PHONETIQUE)

ET TOUS LE MONDE, MOI JE SUIS TRES CONTENT D'ETRE ICI.

UNINCUNS ET J'AIME MIEUX TE DIRE, LES INTERROGATOIRES NE VONT

PAS ETRE MOUS®

GIUSONZ IL N°Y A PAS DE CUNTELLIGIELE) PAR EXEMPLE,

TOUTE CETTE CORRESPONDANCE EST DEPUIS LONGIEMPS DETRUITE, MOI JAI

BRULE TOUT CA••.

AS MENT SONED IN OUR INPORMATION A LIMIT HAS BEEN SET

TOR GIBSON'S DEPARTURE FROM SUITZERLAND DEFORE DECEMBER 15 • 1963•

ING TO THE DELICACY OF THE SOURCE OF INFORMATION, WE MUST INSIST

THAT THE CONTENTS DE LINITED IN GIRCULATION TO THE STRICTEST MINIMUM

AND SHOULD NOT BE INCORPORATED IN ANY COURT RECORDS.

STATZON COMHENTS PARA J ABOVE FOLLOW IN SEPARATE MSG,

(0-284248)

(SERAIT)

---

## Page 5

13-00000

(TRANSLETION

sincero Condolences, in apite of it all.

ours.

Unkown:

Itxaxy He's a mit.

cabsons I had corespondence with him, 20 2x

lunati

must

an

old sailor.

That

Unknown:

Gibson: Yes, yes.

Sam not

ви

unhappys

y eitler

seat at all the cony to change

someones) ideas

Unkown:

You understand, though now,

te they want to

engage in

karagzaat a campaign to invade Cuba there are no

problems, all the same

It's very grate.

Gibson; Yes, but he is also a fellowl/to who was brought to

_two

my attention Il years ago, for having shouted "Long live FIDEL".

In the streets of Dallas, Texas. Well, that was quite a

story. He wrote me some letters and he became a member of

the Committee (unintelligible)

Unkown: (Are they breaking in ??) from Cuba?

Gibson:

Xes, I have the radio here, they have already

spoken of our Committee (unintelligible) and you think

(Cam imagine

poor LY( phonetic in New York.

---

## Page 6

13-00000

- 2-

Unkown: It must be frightful.

Gibson:

He is in a bath and also for (tibor

- phonetic)

and evryone,

As for me Im very happy

to be here.

Unkown: And I like It even more, I'll bell you.

interrogators Won' tz

i Do gentlo (eamy)

The

Gibson: There is no

(unintelligible), for example,

destroyed a long truse eins.

all this correspondence has been destroyed for a long

time.

I have burned all that

---

