# 104-10308-10287

## Page 1

1104-10308-70287

SECRET

SUBJECT: Review of ZRRIFLE File

October 1976

69-S-551

Job #

File No. None

1. Folder entitled personality sketches:

Tab M - Harold MELTZER

Harold MELTZER with aliases was involved in the rackets

vith upper echelon "hoodlums" throughout the U.S. (Pg. 1 Encl. :

lated 19 Dec 1960.) "In 1959 he furnished information to our

Tab Y - Hanna YAZBECK

YAZBECK lived in Beirut and worked for QJWIN's office

YAZBECK has an available pool of assassins.

2. ZRRIFLE/Administrative Financial Folder

a. (OIR 2173 dated 13 October 1960, Att. Top Secret

01 DEPIGRAM

spotter for Corsicans.

Artian to pick nis drain and pinpoint his

ability to do this job for us, but once selection made, DEPIGRAM)to

be eliminated.

b. Memorandun dated 31 January 1961

QJWIN recruited Frankfurt 1 November 1960 to undertake

one-shot mission to Belgian Congo. Mission potentially involved

c. Memorandum dated 25 October 1961

QJWIN salary payment. States QJWIN not U.S. citizen.

4pr

---

## Page 2

13-00000

= 2 =

d. Memorandum to W.K. Harvey dated 3 July 1962

Page 2. "Despite COS Luxe's viewpoint, I happen to know

that QJWIN can do more spotting in Corsican circles whenever we

want him to."

e. LUXE 0573 (IN 77918) dated 2 March 1963

Para. 2. Contact with QWIN put off until 8 March

leadquarters reminded that despite repeated request, no correspondence

received re this "operation"' in past 8 months.

f. Memorandum to C/FI from William Harvey dated 27 June 1963

"As far as ZRRIFLE aspects this op, which have beer

covered under the QJWIN authorization for security reasons and with

g. OLLA 1974 dated 24 April 1964

QWN has been terminated amicably. Para 2 - "QWIN's

personal history reflects major instability and the habit of

hedging his bets is undoubtedly part of his character.

There is nothing to indicate that he

has discussed his CIA relationship with anyone except, perhaps his wife."

LAD/JFK Task Force

---

