4078-10029

eee
yn
. SECRET

vas a
TO: ASST, DEPSTY (INSPECTICN & SECUPITY) Date: 2 a rich

: : FROM:  on/oP/ore (Security) 1.6.2 PLSD
suBJECT:

Sees 1. Necessary covers investigation te requested cn Subject on whoo all available

beckground date {e submitted seperately. Information and/or clearence 16
requested for case category as follows:

Operational Cl. X Security Cl. Sp. Inquiry Operational Support

2. Name of Special Project (1f applicable): TER

3. Investigation to be completed as: _X Routine —— Expedite
by not later than .

4. Scope and nature of use or activity: Sutject owns and overates a printing
and p-blisting business in Santiago, Cnile. He has teen operationally ‘
cleared for use in connection with #!xINATER project (see meso of 3 el

Q Octoter 1950 signed for ADSO). It 13 now desired to
uge nls business facilities for orinéing OPC oropagands waterial, and himself '
for cut-out and other agent finctisns in conncetion with sperifie OPC
projects in contemplation. It is planned to nao him a contract agent.

5. Suggested "cover" for investigation: Governmental  _y Comercial
Other

Specific:

6. Limitations, if any, on inveetigation: vo CIA interest to be shown no

U.S, Sovernnent intercst. exce-t in usial agency name checks.
7. subject HAS/ggrpey been briered that Investigation Le pending. 7

8. Subject HAS/wagxIGR been briefed on “ccver" story to be used in investigation.

Has not
9. Subject EXP/EARUUR indicated to probable investigative contacts inveatiga-
tion pending.

~~ 10." Subject JAZ/AAS NOT inAteated to probeble investigative contacts "cover"
story to be used.

12. CIA indices checks required for provisional operational clearance by

(date)

12. REMARKS: tt ts hoved this clearance can be grant:d with a ainimm delay
to dissuada subject from his plan to soll his tustness_and leave Chile.
PR® b ekground data earlier aitaitted to Iss.

SOR HDi us tres) SECRET OS
CIA
- AETURNTO CA
nd Use Only
Bac s7oduce

7168
