# 104-10163-10093

## Page 1

104-10163-10093

FROM.

ACTION

INFO.

• 22

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECR

E 1

ROUTING

15

UNHAVE

1Wo

(COPY ISSUED TO WH/SA, IW,

5100 iT 1685 16 FE5 0J)

D, D/Del, DDP, ADOP, 500 4, DO/M, CA

2,

Cl, CL/OPS, CI/IC 2, CI/PS, FI, FHD, FI/INT 6, RI/AT, WH/SA

WHt 3, iR, FILE, CS/RF.

S= CP. E.T 1619262

PRIORITY DIE UNER, ERIORITY LANT FACT BARR CITE WAVE 6326

FEB 16 2025Z 65 IN 81818

INTEL TYPU

SUPDATA:

AMCLATTER-I

ERCY FRANK FIROING. RID: INDEX.

FILED 1Ú1926Z

REPORT CLASS CONFIDENTIAL CONTROLLED DISSEM

COUNTRY: CUBA

SUBU: PLANNED AIR STRIKE ACAINST HABANA BY THE MIRR CN 16 FEBRUARY

1965

DO1: 16 FEBRIJARY 1055

PADA: UNITED STATES, MIAMI (16 FEBRUARY 1965)

UFG 6/185

SOURCES A MIAMI BUSINESSMAN WHO WAS A RESIDENT CE HASINA FOR

SEVERAL YEARS• THE SCURCE HAS CONTACTS WHO RECOCHIZE HIM AS A

IN COMMENT,

CSED: PLS PASS TO SIG CENTER

FOR

-IL'STRICAL TRANSMISSION.

ADVISED SiDO OF TDCS

NO AT 1730 LOCAL.

10125A

12

KH/REG

QURLES M. BOUNOS

TD&S D3-315/00550-65

ROUTINE

X /PRIORITY

BASED ON

UFG 6710

DATE DISTRIBUTED,

NO PROJECT

16 FEBRUARY 1965

CAMCLATTER/1)

22282

HAISON.

SECRET

tenter

ĐAd

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITEO.

Copy Ne

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

VIBR

---

## Page 2

14-00000

104208

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE..

SECRET

FROM:

ACTION

INFO.

2

3

NO. S01

_ROUTING

5

IN 81818

PAGE 2

CHANNEL TO U'S INTELLIGENCE. THIS INFORMATICH WAS OSTAINED FROM

FRANK FIORINI.

"?!"

i COMMENTI

RELEASING I WO

DATE DISTRIBUTED.

terra

TDCS

ROUTINE

BASED ON

LIAISONS

PRIORITY

SECRET

RIPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OIFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy No.

---

## Page 3

14-00000

MF0 18-88

CONFIDENTIAL

CORTROLITD DISSEN

• PRIORITY

CENTRAL INTELLIO ENCE AGENCY

Intelligence Information Cable

COUNTRY CUBA

DATE OF 16 FEBRUARY 1965

INTO.

- SUBJECT -

PLANNED AIR STRIKE AGAINST HABANA ON 16 FEBRUARY 1965

BY THE MIRR

TDCS D8-315100550-65

DISTR. 16 .FEBRUARY 1965

PLACE &

DATE ACQ. UNITED STATES, MIAMI (16 FEBRUARY 1965)

SOURCE

AND

REF

IN 81818

FIELD REPORT NO. UFG 6710

APPRAISAL, A MIAMI BUSINESSMAN WHO WAS A RESIDENT OF HABANA FOR SEVERAL YEARS. THE

SOURCE HAS CONTACTS WHO RECOGNIZE HIM AS A CHANNEL TO U.S. INTELLIGENCE.

• THIS INFORMATION WAS OBTAINED FROM FRANK. FIORINI.

1. AT ABOUT 1 :DES AM ON 16 FEBRUARY 1965, FRANK FIORINI SAID

THAT THE MOVIMIENTO INSURRECCIONAL DE RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARIA.

(MIRR, INSURRECTIONAL MOVEMENT FOR REVOLUTIONARY RECOVERY) WAS

PLANNING ANOTHER AIR STRIKE OVER CUBA ON 16 FEBRUARY. BILL JOHNSON,

AN AMERICAN PILOT WHO ARRANGE - THE SUPPORT ASPECTS FOR SUCH STRIKES

AGAINST CUBA, TOLD FIORINI. THAT HE AND MIKE RAFFERTY HAD HAD A.

HEATED ARGUMENT WITH ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA, MIRR LEADER, AT ABOUT

11:45 PM ON 15 FEBRUARY BECAUSE BOSCH WANTED HIS PILOT TO BOMB

THE CITY OF HABANA. JOHNSON AND RAFFERTY TRIED TO ADVISE BOSCH

CONFIDENTIAL

CVITDOLLED DISSEA

AMRAAY / ACRI

NAVY

AIR

OH&

00

AD/CI 2, CIA/NMCC

COAST GUARD BORDER PATROL. FOI LENS TREASURY CUSTOMS

IMMEDIATE TO: STATE (REI)

DIA/CIIC

1 8 19 809a 1 1940 20009

dress

---

## Page 4

MPO L00 18

IN 81818

CONFIDENTIAL

TDCSDB-315/

00550-65°

PAGE 2

AGAINST SUCH AN OPERATION BUT BOSCH REFUSED TO BE DISSUADED INO

INSTRUCTED HIS PILOT TO MAKE THE MISSION. THE PILOT, AN UNIDENTI-

FIED AMERICAN WHO MADE THE PREVIOUS TWO RAIDS, AGREED TO MAKE THE

MISSION FOR A LARGE SUM OF MONEY. HE WAS TO BE ACCUMPANIED BY

AN UNIDENTIFIED CUBAN PILOT.

2. FIORINI SAID THERE WAS SOME DISCUSSION OF BOMBING SOME:

ANTI-AIRCRAFT UNITS NEAR CERTAIN UNIDENTIFIED TANKS BUT BOSCH

ALLEGEDLY INSTRUCTED THE PILOT TO FORGET ABOUT THEM AND HIT ANY-

THING HE COULD.

• 3º FIORINI SAID THAT BOSCH HAS A S-25 HIDDEN IN THE NORTHERN

PART OF FLORIDA NEAR AN UNIDENTIFIED SUGAR MILL. THE AIRCRAFT

WAS PURCHASED IN TEXAS AND IS IN GOOD CONDITION.

4. &FIELD COMMENT: THE MIRR ANNOUNCED ON 13 FEBRUARY THAT ONE

OF ITS TWIN-ENGINE PLANES BOMBED AND STRAFED THE BAHIA HONDA

SUGAR CENTRAL ON CUBA'S NORTH COAST DE PINAR DEL RIO PROVINCE IN

THE EARLY MORNING HOURS OF 13 FEBRUARY. ON 16 FEBRUARY THE MIRR

ANNOUNCED THAT THE B-25 WAS OVER CURA FOR ZI MINUTES ON THE RAID

MISO DID NOT DRAW ANY GROLIND FIRE. NAPALM BOMBS OF I8$ POLIOS: EACHO

A 286-POUND HIGH EXPLOSIVE BOMB AND PHOSPHOROUS. INCENDIARY LEVICES

WERE ALLEGEDLY DROPPED.: THERE HAS: DEEN NO ANNOUNCEMENT FREM CUBA:.

.. INDICATING THAT SUCH A RAIS TOCK PLACE. HOWEVER, HABANA PADIO

DID NOT ANNOUNCE CONFIPIATION OF THE MIRR'S 17 JANUARY STRIKE

AGAINST THE NIAGARA SUGAR MILL UNTIi TWO DAYS LATER.)

Sº FIELD DISSEME SINCLANT, CINCSO, COMAWESTFOR, MIAMI REPS

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 5

CONFIDENTIAL

H070 3-08-68060

TDCSDB-

315/00550-65

PAGE 3

OF STATE, USCG, BÜRDER PATROL, LENS, FBI, AND CUSTOMS.

END OF MESSAGE

CONFIDENTIAL

CONTROLEE I

J

---

