# 104-10175-10020

## Page 1

104-10175-10020

DISPATCH

Chief of Statics, Maxioo City

CARLAIN

SBC:3

SELESSING

.450

1F01

CS 42-13

....

Chief, Wa Divison

SJEJECT

MLIP/Assat Travelling in Harico

ICTICA REQUIRED NIJERINORE

1. WUrLS,1, a Beadwarters contact on Cubes ratters, departod on 20 May 1961,

for Mesico C1t7,

where she la pleming to remain until sonetine in August.

belleved that sabject may be of sone use to the Station. during her stay in Merlco..

A'UrASA, forue puble raintiona officer and tranalator in-the offico of Juan OCTA

Cordova, Erocitivo Secretery to Fidel CASTRO, was s-cruitod in labana in June 1960-

It is recogulsed that her position vithin the CiSTED hiererchy, her fluency in

panial, and se ability is sove freely in certain circles, gave her access te

inforantian vich would be of value to KUPANk.

She is presently under Oral Agree

ment to lUnbii and 18 puld as a "spot cash" basis.

2. She sas fluttered in June 190, under less than satisfactory

and since the resulta vere inconclusive, it las decided to have her reiarn to the

States for reasonment et her first opporcurity.

In late repterter 1S6o, NUrAS/1

was able to leave Cuba mie pretent of requiring zodical treatent, and kas

reflattered sai reassesse.

Under these conditicas it was deterined that Subject

mom? a tues pod tamen Molent from the pallarina Mermaintat

&.

Connections vita Soviet Satellite Intelligence Services.

Connections sata Cuban Intelligence services.

Farsaling her association with nebars of KUBARK to sembers of tua

Ciban Goverment or Intaliigerug services.

d.

Enosexual sctiritles..

Nembership in te Conmmist Party.

Be

G'unist Isdoctrination.

ha.

Bolsherately atterptag. to.hide.inforeations

lo Camitting ary sarious, andetected crine.

thile A'OPAS/1 voill apcour to be a valnable asset based on the above

inforration, ture are certain other fundamental aspects which mast: be taken into

conceratim in jealing sith her.

During her caliege yars, Sabject's sother

Biod tirgicalit, and her father, bus she adores, remarried a vonna sare Alipas

thoroughly alslikes. Because of this miriage, abject quit the insers y 8s/l

Attachments:

1.

List o. Individuals to be contacted

3: Coat me instructions: %/

Distribution:

2 - Herdeo Aty

DATE TIDES

6 Jane 1961

DISPATCH SILEOL AND MUNCER

196l 13

MAX VARTIES FILE POLIWEA

- WH/3/M9xi/Chrono

I - Subjoct

ORIGHAATING

Wis/3/esdeo CoLoSustos-VIdela bj C/l/3Mert

COORDINATIO

BEFICE GrABOI

WH/L/CI

DATE

HEA!

| 2555

DFFICE SYMBOL

C/WH

DATE

714Y

560

(9)

53 USE POLIO-S ESPION REMACISE MAN:DO PIENNAI SE US

103

DISPATCH

1920

---

## Page 2

14-00000

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

SEC RATA

A 28.9000

delahna and want to Mexico.

thale at the lartists! Mexico, she sat and fell

In love titi

the son of a roll to do Colcailin fenily.

This sonance developed

Into an affair which toot her frca Merleo to insador to le casia, beet to Mexico,

and finally to Cuba, Ding this tise, AlUPhi/1 elther lived la the colorbian!

Jungles were her. pareraur and his twin brother attested ic. raire vari fuene,

or travelled with the atterpting to market 1t

This esiocio enied sich the falture

ot the caterpriso, ¡a-bael's addiction to dope and rabsecuent less of his i 1ad.

Meanhile, L UFAS/2 kel contracted a serioue tronic blod desers, and retumed-to

tho United Stoteu.. Is: Parly 1959, 4 UPAS/ exceavored "o interest the Cuban

Ministry @ Health in a project on coatrol of drug eddietico bused on ber cipari

ences its her perercur and his brther.

Ups ber return to the United States,

he beorse lavolved with tbe 26th of July Movesent In New lock City, and aleo

assisted the Cuben U. I. Mission in news eliuring and otber szall joba. Beesusa

of her laterest ta tha Cuban Peroluton, AWri/1 to lavlad by Cella Saint,

ascretary to Fidol CiTRO, to go to Caba and assist her.

in september 1959,

ANUAPS/1 vent to Caba voro no vorked with sriches and transiatod ericles and

EaSTRO speechos. In adition to her translatinr, lAuriSa served aa a public

ralations officer, urrerglar introdictiors for Eagliab sportina persons vieiting

the Priso Hirotor's offico, In this capacily she vas 1a costact ith mmercas

Cuban Goverment officials.

4o la u111 be seen fro hor personal tastery statement loopy mdur separato.

Cover), A'UPAS/1, has done & mubor of thinga - a sumery ci her actasi employient

above an emloyent pattern of jobs lastina Ins a los mers to soreral months.

ner Longest portod of eployment was mir stay in lobe wich lasted nearly a year.

Despite, er porhaps bocanse or, her inability io "stay it" Su:jeet too tide

and varied guip cl semaintances, and produces & volane a lnicination nich, 19

carafully after results in much that is useral and provides mmerous crorational

Las: year she bas closel; associated v1th the luben Iouta Morement and !

assisted in o genizing the sinner yeath eraps in Cabe. Du iar hor receat tip to

Venesels sero sho revievad her trunalation el The Saart and ine Sardinat vita

the muthor, ex-president of Cuntemala AREVAiO, AUFAS/1 interviewed stucento ca

hor on foltlative to record their vies on outant proble

For List Of sTI

tancos runs the genot fia collogo -refessore end colitiel figures to tad trara

_and prostitates, and tiere appeara-to:bo. no. iro dras boccace ci race, erect,

color, religion or political ideology.

Recording to the ascessents sade of Subject, 1t. 1e. belleved that becanas.

of enotimal vacillatica and potential meceptibility to lettiot Indochinatice,

she should ba handled bit cutie.

She can le provlard kite general requirsents

bat ahould be kept undtting of nodus operandi, Subjoct requires direcitou and

guidance to insuro specíflo information, failure rezulta so receipt of varled end

aten interesting info maton, but not necossarily thet vica 1s desired. Auris

18 an notionna tho seeds a

"Cause" mino arperently neede ecmetbing on acarone

Is the past it has been a paranour, end the Cuban Fevolution;

at the presant tiro 1t 1n assists, her country to combat tbe apread of Coatime,

tonorrow it could be Commin Itself. It 1s taerolore nocessury to keep her

novation direcied alon, lines of eur Intere.t so thet she dil not be tarped to

lois olséniera.: It 1s' ilth the iosalcility in' mind that she could espouse an alien

cause (perbars unittingly) that contact wits and direction of her, hould not reval

ceras operand of a too maitive nature. landled with the above restra: 00s 19

aind, Subjoct can provide a valur of inforatira. to date Sauject Iss Soon told

for when so 18 workine although she stron ly raspeets tIPI; abe has glven no

training or Sa syrtes; at nost, sha vould be ble to descrive possibly a hall'

dozen persons she has net under aline. It Is thorofore carrosted that aho be elven

•Spoolflo roquirerents saich she ern fulfill in nomal ereiss, or vica she con

aoquire fros contacts ane makes through norsad chunnels.

Do psychiatriat futher

sugrosto thrt she vill probably rospond to dim tion by a larslo car officer nora

effoctively than to a falo, sinco sio 19 AppariniLy under are strais to saturo.

horself or her attractireness in her associations with am.

6. Centact Insinction are leing forarted under asparato covor. Il thó Station

dosa desiro to contict a 1Trã/1, and levy recuirrenta on ber, 1t 18 roquested that

orything walk-she ray vant to fonard to Readourters alao to handled through tba

Station even though

sho aloo ben en addrose in lew lerk Urcugh shich she contacts bar

present Case dificor.

7.

Attachod also 19 a lIst of Individuals Subject Intands to contact milo 1a

Mexico.

To station has Information on bust of the peraons listed.

CLASSIC T

END CF DISPITCH

105 530

jA*)

5179 51 2d Asa: 9874

SECRET

1694760N0

10: anarie

45.

---

