104-10186-10163

meee

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

‘This material contaica information atecting te Kauionsl Defense of the Uaited States within the meaning of the Raptocsge Lave, Toe
18 UBC. Seca. 783 ond TH. the translation of revelation of which in Coy manner te em Ubsutbortend pervoa te probibited by tar.

SECR

ET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM.

COUNTRY Cuda

sumect “Zoraida” (an alias)

DATE
INFO. bel 1964

piace a Washington
pate aca. March 1965 _

D.C.

REPORT NO.
DATE O1STR,
NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

Tres
csc1-16/01 345-65

18 March 1965

1

CS-311/00115-64
(Page 2)
8 July 1964

_FIELD_REPORT NO.
Tad 15 UNEVALUATED” INTORNATION. SOUICE GRADINOS ARE DIFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT 1& TENTATIVE

source. A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence
Service until April 1964.

Headquarters Comments

Tre following report is one of a series containing personality
anformation provided by the source and includes supplemental
information from the records of this Ageucy.

It 1s requested that the addressees take no ac
the individuals mentioned in the personality reports without
fir@Bechecking with this Agency.

tion on any of

1. "Zoraida" is an office clerk for Manuel PINEIRO in the
mair headquarters of the Direccion General de. Inteligencia
(General Directorate of Intelligence - DGI).

2. "Zoraida" was born between 1940 and 1945, is five feet
six or seven inches tall, weighs about 150 pounds, and has a
He has a white complexion; dark brown hair, a round
face; and a short, thick neck.

fat burid.

Headquarters Comment

iasformation on “Zoraida.”

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

3 The records of this Agency reveal no additional identifiable

ne en

te Tora

Tuaw Tate

Tawa
REP CINCLANT CINCSO_#

TERS

Trsa FRERE

‘(Nota finld divtribvtion Indicated by ”

ra)

Yue 2518

ful

I
+

O PROJECT (AMMLGY 1)
'SCI-316/'01245-65

{wit "WAVE

Ti /asu]
Ly.

LI
“OMS Bh),

WE 7 (i), CL 4,

RID I

anon

.

amma so
S$: Lbs

Clr

eh
