104-10335-10009

Assassination Records Review Board
600 E Street NW + 2nd Floor - Washington, DC 20530
(202) 724-0088 + Fax: (202) 724-0457

June'l7, 1996

Mr. John Pereira :

ae CIA HAS NO OBJECTION To
Historical Review Group P eo ICATION AND/OR
Center for the Study of Intelligence IN Tea CIA INFORMATION
Central Intelligence Agency: ‘ CUMENT

Washington, D.C. 20505

Re: ARRB Request for Additional Information and Records No. CIA-10

Dear John:

Pursuant to its authority under the President John F. Kennedy Assassination Records
Collection Act of 1992, the Assassination Records Review Board requests that you
provide us with descriptive information regarding the “Interagency Source Register”
cited in the attached document.

Would you please.explain the principal function of the Interagency Source Register and
provide some basic background information, including when it began functioning, the
purpose for which was created, which entity or entities in the intelligence community
were responsible for operating it, and which entity or entities in the intelligence
community made use of it. To the extent that the Register may have been discontinued
during the 1958-1965 period, we would like to know why and what type of system
replaced it (if any).

In addition, would you please identify the documents to which you refer in drafting
your response. .

This request should be interpreted in its broadest reasonable sense. To the extent that
you are not certain whether certain information comes under the scope of this request,
please let us know and we can advise you whether we seek to include it. Should this
request impose an unreasonable burden on you that we may have not anticipated,
please advise us so that we can work with you to modify or amend the request
accordingly. :

Boaro Memaers: John R. Tunheim, Chair « Henry F. Graff » Kermit L. Hall + William L. Joyce + Anna K. Nelson


Assassination Records Review Board
600 E Street NW - 2nd Floor - Washington, DC 20530
(202) 724-0088 + Fax: (202) 724-0457

June'l7, 1996

Mr. John Pereira semis

Director CIA HAS NO OBJECTION To
Historical Review Group RELRASSIF ICATION AND/OR
Center for the Study of Intelligence IN THi en on CIA INFORMATION
Central Intelligence Agency CUMENT

Washington, D.C. 20505

Re: RRB Reques

Dear John:

Pursuant to its authority under the President John F. Kennedy Assassination Records
Collection Act of 1992, the Assassination Records Review Board requests that you
provide us with descriptive information regarding the “Interagency Source Register”
cited in the attached document.

Would you-please-explain the principal function of the Interagency Source Register and~:~--- ~~~
provide some basic background information, including when it began functioning, the
purpose for which was created, which entity or entities in the intelligence community
were responsible for operating it, and which entity or entities in the intelligence
community made use of it. To the extent that the Register may have been discontinued
during the 1958-1965 period, we would like to know why and what type of system
replaced it (if any). :

In addition, would you please identify the documents to which you refer in drafting
your response.

This request should be interpreted in its broadest reasonable sense. To the extent that
you are not certain whether certain information comes under the scope of this request,
please let us know and we can advise you whether we seek to include it. Should this
request impose an unreasonable burden on you that we may have not anticipated,
please advise us so that we can work with you to modify or amend the request
accordingly.

Board Memaens: John R. Tunheim, Chair + Henry F. Graff + Kermit L. Hall « William L. Joyce + Anna K. Nelson
Executive Director: David G. Marwell


Mr. John Pereira

June 17, 1996

Page 2

Thank you for your attention to this matter.
Sincerely yours,

Qu (Qs

David G. Marwell

Executive Director

Enclosure


13-00000

SEGRET

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
WASHINGTON 25, D.C.

12 ub
CIA SPECIAL c
TAL COLLEC
RELEASR IN FUL PIONS :

TSHORANDUM FOR: Assistant Chief oD f, Intelligence
Department of the
Attention: Plans and Operations Brench

FROM: Interagency Source Register

SUBJECT: Burn Hotice ~ Hans Dieter KAMLUSK

1. Subject ‘individual is suspected of being a mentally
disturbed intelligence nuisance. It is requested that this office
be furnished any information your office can make availeble which
might support or deny this suspicion, plus any mown biographical
information not included in the attached report.

2. The atteched information concerning Subject is forwarded
for purposes of identification.

3. Reply by 1 July 1966 would be appreciated. Negative reply

may be telephoned using the correspondence file number of this
memorandum for reference.

ISRN-23 ,279

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM
Att: a/s para 2 Release In Full 1996

PAR- DTC

Kipty Lilgplred XZ Cn cer 4 J Camo € :

SFERFT



13-00000

TRAT. ENFERNAL USE ONLY

21, June 1996

ONS /

MEMORANDUM FOR: Fred Wickham
DO Focal Point for : /
JFK Board Requests a i" aie

FROM: John F. Pereira
Chief, Historical Review Group

SUBJECT: JFK Board Request No. CIA~10
Interagency Source Register

\ .
1. Attached is request No. CIA-10, dated June 17, 1996
from the Assassination Records Review Board. The request is
for information regarding the “Interagency Source Register”,
which is cited in an attached document.

2. Please advise how you would like us to respond to
this request. : -

John F. Pereira

Attachments


13-00000

21 June 1996
CIA SPECIAL c CTIONS /

RELEASE IN FULL /
MEMORANDUM FOR: Fred Wickham .° 2000 / :

DO Focal Point for : /
JFK Board Requests sts tea 2

FROM: John F. Pereira
Chief, Historical Review Group

SUBJECT: JFK Board Request No. CIA-10
Interagency Source Register

1. Attached is request No. CIA-10, dated June 17, 1996
from the Assassination Records Review Board. The request is
for information regarding the “Interagency Source Register”,
which is cited in an attached document.

2. Please advise how you would like us to respond to
this request.

John F. Péreira™

Attachments

‘


13-00000

Mr. Barry

Harrelson

October 7, 1996

Page2

which will be processed as an assassination record. Gunn will then
determine whether there are any additional portions of the history that
should be added to the Blakey version. CIA will compile the “Blakey
version” as soon as possible and Gunn will promptly thereafter review the
documents.

Index. CIA has made an index available to Review Board staff and the
staff has identified certain histories that may be appropriate for review.
CIA will make available those histories that are of obvious relevance, and
will raise with Review Board staff any questions regarding the requests
where the basis for the request is unclear. CIA will begin to make
histories available on a rolling basis. Review Board has agreed to review
histories promptly once they are made available. Although it was not
discussed at ofr meeting, we would very much appreciate it if you would,
within the next two weeks, identify which histories you are prepared to
make available and those that CIA believes should be subject to further
discussions.
Cram’s multi-volume counterintelligence history. Although Cram’s _

~ history was not specifically discussed at our meeting, the Review Board _
staff understands that the history has been located and the Review Board
staff awaits its being made available.

CIA-8 (Intelligence community staff)
” CIAwill provide a report to the Review Board staff within two weeks.
CIA-9 (Publications and analytical materials)

The Review Board staff provided CIA with a list of certain publications as
they appear in an LB} Library finding aid. CIA will report back on
recommended action to the Review Board promptly.

CIA-10 (Interagency source register)

CIA has compiled information responsive to the request. CIA will make
GEBByevailable within two weeks.

CIA-11 (Duran’s original statement)



13-00000

Mr. Barry Harrelson
October 27, 1996
Page 2

Other Histories. No response has been received to our agreement that

CIA identify within two weeks the histories that can be made available
and those that should be subject to further discussions.

CIA-S (Intelligence community staff)

CIA had promised to provide a report to the Review Board within two
weeks. Nothing has been made available.

CIA-9 (Publications and analytical materials)
We have received no materials responsive to this request. Additionally,
no response has be received from CIA regarding the list of publications
that are identified in an LBJ Library finding aid that the Review Board
staff provided.

CIA-10 (Interagency source register)

CIA has not yet made available the records that it had agreed to provide
within two weeks. (wes Uswald on)

CIA-11 (Duran’s original statement)

CIA has agreed to make some further attempts to locate Duran’s original ~
statement.

CIA-12 (MWAVE materials)
CIA has agreed to make materials available on a rolling basis.
Informal requests:

Spas Rankin. CIA has made the Spas Rankin file available to the Review Board.
Review Board staff sri ntinues. When research is complete, staff will
discuss issues with CIA: Wee (erer\ery See pelts A [we ‘

chet Jui ers ‘
IN 23738. CIA is searching for cable number IN 23738 (7 July 1962). ~ Copy SO

Marilyn Murrett. CIA has made the Marilyn Murrett file available to the Review
* Board. Review Board staff research continues. When research is complete, staff



13-00000

C/HRG

CONFIDENTIAL
20 February 1997

Mr. T. Jeremy Gunn

General Counsel

Assassination Records Review Board
600 E Street, NW

Washington, D. C. 20530

Re: (U) ARRB Request for Additional Information and
Records No. CIA-10 (Interagency Source Register)

Dear Jeremy:

(U) This is in response to Mr. David Marwell's letter
of 17 June 1996 to Mr. John Pereira, in which he asked a
number of questions concerning the “Interagency Source
Register”; specifically,

a. What is the function of the register?
b. When did it begin?
c. What are the purposes of the register?

d. Which entity or entities are responsible for
operating the register?

e. Which entity or entities in the intelligence
community have made use of it?

£. To the extent it fell into disuse during the
period 1958-1965, what, if any, system replaced
it?

(C) Please find enclosed for your review DO Instruction
50-46 entitled, “The Interagency Source Register.” /This
three-page instruction fully answers questions a, c,/and
above."With respect to question e, at this time I-know o
no way of determining exactly which entities within the
intelligence community made use of the Saree It can b

earch for data wh: (éh will provide aaamerass We request that
the enclosure be returned when the Staff completes its
deliberations on this issue.

CL BY: (611637 /
CL REASON: “I5(c)
DECL ON: Xl

DRV FROM: PER 10-82

CONFIDENTIAL


13-00000

foes _ _ CONEIDENTIAL
¥

(U) If you have any questions in this regard, please
call me at €13

= Sincerely,

Enclosure:
As stated

CONFIDENTIAL


13-00000

Hi ee CONFIDENTIAL
“of

DCI/CSI/HRG:JBH/GMB/bkh (20 Feb 97)
Distribution: ¢
Orig - Adse w/enc
- HRG File w/o enc
- ARRB Request File w/enc

- DO (Fred_Wickham) w/o enc
- JFK/DO w/enc
- Barry w,

PRRER

CONFIDENTIAL


\

.t i CONFIDENTIAL z Vs oY

Central Intelligence Agency

Washingjon, D.C 20505

13 August 1998

Ms. Laura Denk, Esquire

Executive Director

Assassination Records Review Board
-600 E Street, N.W.

Washington, D.C. 20530

Dear Ms. Denk:

Reference: (C) ARRB Request No. CIA-10, for information
on the Interagency Source Register

(U)) The following ae responsive to referent request.

(Cc) The Interagency Source Register (ISR) is simply a
device whereby-agencies-within the intelligence community
| which recruit or deal with sources of foreign positive
intelligence outside the United States try to keep from
bumping into each other in the pursuit of such information.
It is for the further purpose of ensuring a source cannot
gain an unwarranted advantage by dealing with more than one
agency. Each agency is responsible for registering an
individual as a source with the ISR before using the
aii IN

| (C) The ISR was established in 1957 by the Intelligence
Advisory Committee, predecessor to the U.S. Intelligence
Board. The ISR was not used extensively during the years |
1958- 1965 and we know of no system or procedure which took |

ee)

its place.

| (C) The first ISR regulations were in the form of
basic procedures each agency was to follow, procedures which |
have gone through a number of reiterations. ARRB staff
members have reviewed the classified, current written

\
aca ace eta existence and use-of the ISR?

a a a as a es

CL BY: 637)
CL REASON: 1.5(c)
DECL: x1

DRV FROM: Per 10-82

CONFIDENTIAL


. : CONEIDENTIAL
Ms. Laura Denk, Esquire

(U) I believe that this information is fully
responsive to your request on the ISR and accordingly,
completes our work on CIA-10.

Hes i Sincerely, i
oe Ngo

J. Barry Harrelson

2

CONFIDENTIAL
