# 104-10290-10190

## Page 1

104-10290-10190

it is o

Wi, But 1903

WON LAME A

Is it day

ADAS

"TORITY MUNI

MIXI

FORLD BRIXP

(MOBORN DE BLARTS, REMAINING INFO RELSARABLE TO LIAISON.)

BERLIN: THE COMUNISTS VISH AS "OFVIC)AL" THE TALISS

BETIES:

SAM. AND WIST ESRLIN NEGGA IATORS MAICH. AM

EVED, THE AGREEMENT CN

ES AND CONSIDES TEEN A EAST TO ISCON'S "FRES

PROF ORAL FOR ARE

OT BERLIN, WILLY BRANDT,

ON THE OTEER EAND,

FOCARDS

THEN AS CHILE "INCENICAL" AND AS 10 951

BACK TO HIS STATONS IN

GERIA POLITICS;

3. SOROSLAVIA: //TITZ IS APPARIVTLY NO LONGER DEEPY YVOLVED IS

ADCIININTRATICN OF YUCOSIAY ATYAIRS.

HE HAS SXHIBITED., LACK OF

THOMLADOR ARD UNDETSTANDING OF A NURER OP FORION POLICE ISSUES NET

INARI HAVE ABILLOVA SUE IVAL NASONS CASEMAN JAVI SIVIOLAO

3. MORTT VISTHAII

TAVY PROPACARDA PIDAATS ON TUS THIRD

ANNIVERSARY DE TIES NATIONAL PEONE FOR THE TIDERA IN AS SOME HARTMAN

---

## Page 2

Murder OF.

20D8663 00 47z

- SIN CEN

Su40}

SUNSETS A CRONING CONTI

AD DELOIS SIR DISTIN

SET. (CONF

DASTRI: 1213

(9053 150)

SCE IN SANOI THAT INBURGRUTS CAY SUSTAIN

SOUTH VIET

CEORTEDLY

HASIAS NOT ARE

BART

CP THE

CURAT, JIVOLVE

DAT IN TEE SOVIET TIKE

ID AIE DUE

3 €

M AN ALBO INCHEARINE

A 80V15, 301 108 30

CHASER HAS ARIYES CHAY FATHAN TO

OTHERS ARE PROBABLY IN. ROUTE.

5..

FAXBECHEV'S LONG RANCE PROORAN FOR DEVILOIHENT OF

TE SOYIY CHETCAL UNUSTEY IE TO ER ACCOUNTED BY ESTKENCHHEHT

IN OTLER PARTS OF THE ECONONY DURIND TEN MIST PUO TRADE

what i. cr

CONSURRE SHIVICES, AND SOME WATY INDUSTTLAL "BODIETIE

1.I% TO ME

ATTACTED, AND IT SAIIS LISBLY THAT TENNE BILL BE A SLATITO IN TUS

KATE AT TRICH LILITARY EXDIDITURAS RAVE INCRET SPACE LOSI

& ITALY DISIT ADOLY THY BOZO OVERTI'S TIANILITY LATE

Ta 17 31

---

## Page 3

200 794493

(PAGE THRES)

BORD'S POSITIO IS VIRUS

RECAST

OP TRIN AN ASCAMS OF THE VATICAN'S PINBUYS ON CHLATINY DINOCK:"

RICHTRINGBES NOT TO BIRAR PARTY URITE! CONF

7. CURA: THE CASTRO REGILE SENS LINT @ CULTIVATIRO AFRIC:

LOUTRIS AB: VAY OY LESSENTIG 193 ISOLATION IRON THE FRIS FORIO

: hi

HIDASSY IN TANGARYIRA IDICATA THIS.

I ADDITICE, CUBA MA?, WURING

THE PAST LINES, EXPANDID CONTACTS NITE HIS COMTRIES SOUTH OF TIE

BENARA.

THERE IS ALSO HIASON TO BUNFRCT AFRICANS DOING TO CURA C

CHOLANSHIPS ARE GETTING TRAINIRE IN CURRILLA TASTE rECHIQUES.

^8.. UK: BRITISH FOREIGN. POLICE M

HE CONTAT

LAB-HOME GOVERNARITT

IACARASTIOLT FOCUSRD ON HAKPITE THR ROSY-AST DIALOUS OPEN AND

ILEROVING RELATIONS WITH WIST GRANATY.

BOTH SIR ALEX AND TOREIGN

SOCHSTART SUTLER ESPOCIALLY DETAINED TO ENRI EXTORINE MORAR

POSSIBLE AGRIKIENT' MITT MOSCOW - A POLICY WHICH PAID GIT KANDSONELY

FOR CONSERVATIVES IN ELECTIONS OF 1955 ARO 1039. MAIN DEJECTIVE ..

BUTLER'S RECENT VISIT, DONN HAS NO SOUND DUT GERMAN BRACTIÓN TO SUCR

BRITISR INITIATIVES /I

D. BRITISR GUIANA JACAN AID LIS LISVIKHANTO HAST BEIN ATTACAING

RELEASIN? OFFICIA,

viri

(x0,i.s

x....

---

## Page 4

00 85

- partial an under do aboris en.

•пар-" і

MANTEE

200.31

9040>

(DA88 P002)

ge Fian is

STEAL SNISIONS AND I MET ME TO DORIEST

LET TRO TY TO HOK

10 VOLE

RA PATES, INHIL TAVE

JIG A TRITATUE

NORIT IT TO ATIC E NICH ON FOICH.

10. FRANCS: PARIS IS SPINS TO FROSTR, TRADE WITE COMUNIST

TA IT HICCUIGIN PRIVAT FIRE TO FLOP IT MAR

430 THSR3

THERE ARE HUILT IN LINITATIONS TO TH

FIT FAT FINCH CHINESE

TRADE CAN GROY, COMPINNITARY PHONICS ARE FEW. AND CREDIT PROBLE

COTIUS TO LIMIT PURCHASES BY CHINER VED BART PRIMARILY INTEPESTSP

IN OBTAINING PRINCH TICINICAL SKILLS. PARIS INTAT IN CHINESE

TRADK AND EXPANDED CULTORAL CONTACTS WITH PHIPIEC HAVE STIRCLATEN

SPECULATION THAI SOME BORT OF DIP ATIC ESCOGNITION IS IN TIP.

OFFING. THIS: IS STOUTLY DEVIND AT ALL LEVELS GE FRENCH GOVERNME!

il. FINLAN: FOR US BACOND TINE IF POUR MONTES FINLAND IM

GOING TEROUGH A CABINET CRISIS BROUGET OU BY DISAGRI

RULING COALITION OVER DONNETIC LADISIATION.: A HON-POLITICAL, GOURZIANS

+....

4AT90GDUA1:

SECRET

---

## Page 5

22%

R

9040

(PAGE PIVK)

O. CIVIL BARVANTS, HEADNO BY ECONOMIST RAITO LEATO, HAS BAI?

INDITIES TO SENTS TITIL THS PRESANI COTTHOYEISY IN RESOLVER. ~M

ALTERHATIVE SOLUTICHE SNIN LIIIZO TO AGRABIAN HINORITY GOVERNENT.

RECCNETIIUTICE OF AGRARIAN-DOSINATED COALITICS OR AS A LAST RESORT.

GAUKRAL TECTIONS. WHATIVER THR OUTCONS, PISINAL L

CONNER BLATIS. LOSCOW CANS OUT ADAN DUDE MIS TRIP TO SEI

0S9R.

13.

BOUT SOIRA:. PRESIDENT PAR CHORD-HUI'S BOEXHATION OF THE

TITIONAL AE

die sh.

7 B 9K2

BOUT KOREA'S. KEY

COSTITTIOAL BOLSHI TALLA PLAN IT

AREA, TE COMTROUERBIAL PORE

E SECURITY SHIRT JIN CHORPIL. COTROLS

TIE PAITY APPARATER, AND HIS MATY ENEMIES ARE INALY TO TRY TO USE

THY YAGISLATIVS PROCHSSES TO TRY TO WHIT POWER PROGAN: PRESIDENT

PAR STILL BACKS INS, HOWEVER, AND TIST AND THEIR COHORTS WILL CONTIUS

TO HAKE TER GOVERN

WINT'S MAJOR DICISIONS. TUE CABINST HEADED BY

CROE TU BON APFARS TO RAVE BERK CHOSEN TITH A MIND TO BATANCIE

PACTIONAL AND SECTIONAL, INTERESTS AND FOR AN ABILITT TO CARRY OUT.

RATIN THAN PORTULATE POIICY. WITH ELUCTIONS OVER, THE REGIME IS

DILIALING DEFICIR

5. 06

Lie Nin

---

## Page 6

01068:

59.246.10 CS /15 06

OUT: 1210064

321022

HE IOR

INFO

(PAGE BIE):

LOTS TO SPINO DICISIONS CA LOSO CATANIA QUESTIONS

A stAGNANT

SOON ME MARION TO PICTUR

-5i039477

PAT, ID. ALSO ARZIONS TO

COMES TS YEAR OLE MISOTIATIOSS FOR A HOMIALIZATION OF RELATING

13: 709B7:

THE TWO -WIS OLD CARMIS CHIN APPRATS TO ES

ONCE NO A CLIMAX POLLONDIO TOE PAILIES OR FORE MADOR, PARTLES TO

RING MINOR PARTIES INTO COALITION ARRA

KIS ONLYA COALITION

BETWEET THESE THO, PRIME MINISTER INOU'® HAPLICAN, PROPLE'& PARTY

ANY THE JUSTICE PARTY, OR A "RATIQUAL COATION" ON ALL POLITICAL

GROUPS, MATAS TO DE TEED. DESPITE THE DESP DIFFERENCES, AM

ABSOCIATION BETWREN THE TH HAY PROVE SHABILS, FOR THE POLTICIANS

FRAR THAT EXTENDING THE CRISIS MUCH LIGER MIGHT PROVOKE MILITAT

TETRAYLATION.

CONF

iN. COSCOS://1915 ADOLIA ASGIES'& DOSITION RIAIRE PARCARIOGS

ITS ESTRA FETIST APOENTS JOINED IS & "COMMITTRE CP SITIONAL

LIBTRATION CUITE TO PLOT AGARET IT TROY TBIR DRAZZAYILUS PAST

TRICA SCHINAI CHIPPLED BY LOOPOLVILISS SISTON O THEIR SOUT

00* *1.987

RICATING DISTIA

SI...*

7/240

25

0H9 0991751

---

## Page 7

DACE

SEVENI

2AASSY CONTACTS. DE FILES LAVE SANE RAISSARIRS ABAOND TU SEE

FIAL DID ARIS MAN DUNS MEPOGTEELY INCLINS ASOA3SJ3A7IOE OF

LEOPOLOVILLE LEADERS. AN "EVASION' DE THE CONGO. AND IRSCIGITTOM E

COUP BE THE CONSO UY TIE MAKISS Of THE LEOPOLOViLE CisE

ESPECIALLY THE QUENTIONABLS RELIABILITY DE GEPERAL MOBUTO SACY.

CLEARLY, ENHARCES THE CHL PROSPECTS. LAST MONTE HOBOTU AND SURETE

CALSE ANUAÃI, THE LUGINE'S TRO KEYSTULT MIES MAYLAYED BY SOLDIFIC!

AND MRADLY SELLO, STUDENT AGITATION MAY BECOME A FACTOR DE STEM OF

PES CLOSE CONUSCTICNS TO STUDENT GIOUPS OF THO WIGH OFFICIALS RECEIPTI!

OUSTED TORSTEN ALVISTER MABIKA-RAZANDA AND LONDON CHANGE FRCAS

KANZA IN HE NEPEST DELIBERATIONS FOWARD WHITING CONSTITUTION

PROVINCIAL MOSCE DELINGÀ LOOSE ARRANGERSNT APPEAR GRENOTE

ENCONTAGE

PERCENT SUCH ONESE CROTCAL AND VOICIN LAUS ARE CONSORIE SVE

VER DO SOURY MUR AT CAN

PERNICED SLENO FROUT

DaD.

PengyRil B007 02051002/405.464%:

COMMUNIST SUPPLY OUTDY MCG HOPPUT FRAN COUR 9075

PONEST:

---

## Page 8

VELGU MESSAGE

1890

013

140

9040÷

HAVE RECAPA

TEE: CAPASILÄTY TO HAKE SHARE CONST

ELASKEKS, THE COSTIUIRG

FATSY LAD LID HAUTRALIST PACTIOS HATE

COVES ND PETER SOUYANTA PENAS SO ARAM POR

TUL PATET 1ÃO PARTICIPATION IN THE CRANITION COVALES.

GOSTEI CATERING ON PLANA EY LIGHT-WIE ELITARE BLINS ALISO RITE

TES SARANIKONE CLAN, CONTINUE TO CIRCULATE DE VIETIAN.

Ais t 03

---

