# 104-10126-10348

## Page 1

104-10126-10348

UNCLASSIFIED

SUBJECT: (Optional)

FROM:

ADDO:

7 E 26

TO: (Officor designation,: r00m number,.

• and

building;

C/OLC

7D-391

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

CONFIDENTIAL

SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

014.724789

Mr. G. Robert Blakey, Chief Counsel :

House Select Committee on Assassinations

EXTENSION: "

NO pro

ADD 0•77 - 9762

92767

DATE

4: November 1977 F

THE DATE :

RACEVED.

FORWARDED

OFFICER'S:

INITIALS

=45

This is a followup to our

discu

ssion about my participating

session

Chief

4942105.

punge

tee

Assassinations Inshort,

Mr."

John walker, SA/DO/O hosted a

on 3. November attended By

7.

9.

10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

FORM

3.-$2

610 use

SITIONS

TONSUS P SECRE

7 CONFIDENTIAL

Walker, Mrs:

Sovera and Mrs. Shackley were

Tao present We had been led to

believe that Mr.

Blakey wanted to

talk about the Pawley Bayo Man

2 Fit+425:

operation, 1

on, better known in our

files as operation "Tilt't. It was

also my understanding that he also

wanted to get a feel for the Cuban

exile world of South Florida as of

1962.

Both items were touched on

fin low key during the course of the

evening.

2.

The only specific request

that came out of this session was

that Mr. Blakey was interested in

obtaining any compendium that we

might have on all Cuban exile

groups that were in existence in

the Miami area in 1962. An over-

view survey of this type did exist,

and we will try to locate a copy to

see if we can

TGShackley

CC:

DDO

SA/DO/0

20383

INTERNAL

1 UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 2

tc-innon

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL USE ONLY

Addendum to Journal - Office of Legislative Coursel

Breifing,

Monday - 31 October 1977

HSCA

DPO

Page 2

5. (Confidential - RSG) LIAISON Escorted House Select

Committee on Assassinations staffers to Room 2D03, Headquarters

Building, for a briefing on DDO records systems. Bruce Johnson,

DDO/ISS, briefed on the STAR system and other specialized files

maintained by the DDO. Notes taken by visitors were collected and

classified Secret for transmittal by courier to the House Select

Committee offices. (See Memorandum for the Record.)

George SCary

GEORGE L. CARLY.

Legislative Counsel

CC:

O/DDCI

03

MI.

Ex. Sec.

DDA DDS&T

MI. Lapham

MI. Hetu

SA/DO/O

IC Staff

Comptroller

NFAC

SONFIBENTIAL

INTERNAL USE CNLY

20384

---

## Page 3

cabrinad

'INTERNAL USE ONLY

Journal - Office of Legislative Counsel

Tuesday - 25 October 1977

HSCA

assessmation

Ind. Castro

Page 5

meeting

13-16

19. (Secret - PG) THIRD AGENCY Telephoned Michael Smith,

NSA, to inform him that the DCI would be meeting on that day with the

Director of NSA. Since we have encountered some difficulty in continuing

to act for NSA with congressional committees/ subcommittees investigating

the ROK/KCIA, I told Mr. Smith that the DCI might well address some of

these problems in his meeting with the NSA Director. I added that I had attempte

to reach Mr. Smith and Jerry Burke, NSA, on 21 October without success.

in order to inform them of the upcoming meeting between the two Directors.

Mr. Smith thanked me and indicated he would be alert to the outcome of

the meeting, insofar as the Director of NSA is concerned.

20. (Internal Use Only - PG) LIAISON Recontacted Martha

Talley, on the staff of the House Committee on Standards of Official

Conduct, to rate it her ferment to Mexico ormer

explained that we had encountered administrative problems, and that

we wish to resolve these before proceeding further. We settled on 2

November for the new date. Me. Talley said this would offer no problem.

21. (Secret - PG) LIAISON Telephoned Michael J. Herahman,

Deputy Staff Director, Subcommittee on International Organizations, House

International Relations Committee, to confirm with him a meeting on

27 October with representatives of EA/JK. The Subcommittee has acquired

a document from a source other than CLA which Mr. Hershman quite

properly believes will be of interest to us, and this will be one of the

subjects of discussion on 27 October.

22. (Unclassified - RSG) LIAISON Met with Wayne Smith,

staff of House Merchant Marine and Fisheries Subcommittee on Oceanography,

to advise him of further responses to his inquiry on behalf of Representative

John Breaux (D., La.) regarding technology transfer in the area of

oceanography. (See Memo for the Record.)

23. (Confidential - DIC) LIAISON Set up a meeting for

tomorrow morning with Professor G. Robert Blakey, Chief Counsel and

Staff Director, House Select Committee on Assassinations, to review

DDO material on the "'Bayo-Pawley Action" In June 1963.

20386

... INTERNAL USE ONLY

---

## Page 4

14-00000

SEGRE

shety

INTERNAL USE ONLY

Addendum to Journal - Office of Legislative Counsel

Trage

Tuesday - 18 October 1977

Page 5

17. (Secret - DTC) LIAISON Professor G. Robert Blakey,

Chief Counsel and Staff Director, House Select Committee on

Assassinations, visited Headquarters to discuss a rather sensitive

request that the Committee had for certain information the Agency

may have in its files. (See Memorandum for the Record.)

Glarge Slary

GEORGE L. CAR

Legislative Counsel

CC:

O/DDCI

03

MI.

Ex. Sec.

DDA DDS&T

Mr. Lapham

Mr. Hetu

SA/DO/O

IC Staff

Compt.

NFAC

SEORET

§ INTERNAL US% ONLY

20387

---

## Page 5

14-0000 gp

INTERNAL USE CHLY

HSCA

Bri

JY

JOURNAL

OFFICE OF LEGISLATIVE COUNSEL

Tuesday - 18 October 1977

1. (Unclassified - ABS) LIAISON Called Dan Doran, in the

office of Representative Edward Madigan (R., Ill.), to inform him

that CIA had already answered an MKULTRA query concerning

constituent Scott Gliddon.

2. (Unclassified - ME) FOIA/PA Received a telephone call

from James Gottlieb, in the office of Representative Ted Weiss (D., N. Y.),

concerning the status of a request to CIA from Columbia University

IPS, I advised Mr. Gottlieb that CIA had received the request dated

26 September 1977 and that an acknowledgement letter would be going

out this week. Mr. Gottlieb thanked me for the quick response and

asked for a copy of CIA's response to Messrs. Edelstein and Gilfoyle.

3. (Unclassified - ME) FOLA/PA I called Ms. Barbara Daly,

in the office of Senator Daniel Moynihan (D., N.Y.), concerning a

request on Mr. Melvin N. Jennings.

4. (Unclassified - DTC) LIAISON Met with G. Robert Blakey, Chief

Counsel and Staff Director, and Charlie Matthews, Deputy Chief Counsel,

House Select Committee on Assassinations, concerning their investigation.

(See Memorandum for the Record.)

5. (Unclassified - MG) EMPLOYMENT Received a call from

Dorothy Brown, in the office of Senator Jennings Randolph (D., W. Va.),

who wanted to set up an employment interview for a constituent, Richard

Douglas, who was in town today. After checking with Howard Eissner,

WARO, I called Ms. Brown back and told her the appointment had been

set for 2:30 p.m.

6. (Unclassified - MG) CONSTITUENT Received a call from

Thelma Fogleman, in the office of Representative Tom Steed (D., Okla.),

who has a constituent request to try and locate a particular individual

who the constituent believes works for the Agency. I told Ms. Fogleman

that I would have someone check into the matter and call her back.

INTERMAL UBE O

20385

---

## Page 6

725

INTERNAL USE ONLY

CONFIDENTIAL

Journal - Office of Legislative Counsel

Monday - 3 October 1977

Beifing

25. (Unclassified - DTC) LIAISON Professor G. Robert Blakey,

Chief Counsel and Staff Director, House Select Committee on Assassinations,

visited the Agency for meetings with OLC, OGC, and OS. (See Memo

for the Record.)

26. (Confidential - GLC) LIAISON Dropped by the office of

Ralph Preston, House Appropriations Defense Subcommittee staff, and

alerted him to the fact that the Director would be making courtesy calls

on several members of the Defense Subcommittee tomorrow and I

assumed that the Director would discuss the realignment of certain

aspects of the intelligence structure in furtherance of Presidential

Directive/NSC-17.

27. (Unclassified - THW) CONSTITUENT Craig Betancourt,

in the office of Representative Fortney Stark (D., Calif.), called requesting

information in order to answer a constituent with respect to questions

related to the use of missionaries abroad in intelligence activities. I

referred to the regulation on the use of missionaries and this seemed

to satisfy the request.

28. (Confidential - THW) CONSTITUENT Burt Margolin,

Administrative Assistant to Representative Henry A. Waxman (D., Calif. ),

called stating that a constituent and close friend of the Congressman, a

Mr. Wittenberg, had called stating that persons purporting to be

representatives of the CIA, on two separate occasions, had visited a

Soviet emigre family living in his (Mr. Wittenberg's) house and wanted

to insure that these persons did in fact represent the CIA. After

checking with DCD, I told him that they were legitimate representatives

and that the Agency was very much interested in being able to debrief

the Soviets involved.

Glass bary

GEORGE L. CAR

Legislative Counsel

03

cc: 0/DDCI

Mr.

EX. Sec. DDI DDA DDS&T

MI. Hetu

SA/DO/O IC Staff

Compteoller

NIO

Mr. Lapham

20389

INTERNAL JOE ONLY

CONFIDENTTAL

---

## Page 7

ITERIAL BER OLY

JOURNAL

OFFICE OF LEGISLATIVE COUNSEL

Brif

HSCA

Monday - 17 October 1977

1. (Unclassified - DTC) LIAISON Met with G. Robert Blakey,

Chief Counsel and Staff Director, House Select Committee on Assassinations,

concerning his investigation. (See Memorandum for the Record dated

18 October 1977:)

2. (Internal Use Only - RJK) LIAISON Called Hal Ford, on the

staff of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, in response to his

earlier requests and informed him that William Wells, DDO, would have

lunch with him on Wednesday, 26 October 1977 at 12:30 p.m. I also

indicated that I had arranged for Mr. Ford to interview Andrew Falkiewicz,

OTR, at 10:30 a.m. that same day in the Coordination & Review conference

room. I added that the additional information that he had requested would

be provided to him in a day or so.

3. (Internal Use Only - RJK) LIAISON Ben Marshall, on the staff

of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, called to confirm whether

Eric Richard, Department of Justice, had compartmented clearances.

After confirming this with Compartmented Information Branch, OS, I

called him back and confirmed that Richard did have compartmented

clearances.

4. (Internal Use Only - CM) LIAISON Marvin Feuerwerger,

in the office of Representative Christopher Dodd (D., Conn.), called

to report that he now has an interim Secret clearance from the

Department of Defense, and would like to look at a Confidential report

written by Don Goldstein, NFAC/OPR, on nuclear proliferation. He

also asked for a copy of the unclassified study on the international oil

situation (presumably "The International Energy Situation: Outlook to

1985"). He said that Mr. Dodd might be interested in having Peter

Fourt, ORPA, bring him up to date on the most recent international

activity concerning the neutron warhead, but Feuerwerger will let us

know about this. Later checks confirmed that Feuerwerger has the

interim Secret clearance from Defense and that a Top Secret clearance

is in process for him. I referred the request to read the Confidential

document to Mollie Kreimer, NFAC/CSS.

• 20388

---

## Page 8

14-00000

I3

INTERNAL USE ONLY

visits

JOURNAL

OFFICE OF LEGISLATIVE COUNSEL

Monday - 26 September 1977

1. (Unclassified - ME) FOIA/PA Talked with David Shaw, Senate

Select Committee on Intelligence staff, concerning the status of documents

forwarded to the Select Committee for their approval to release under

Privacy Act requests.

Until some formal guidelines are set up, according

to Mr. Shaw, there will be delays because Chairman Daniel Inouye (D., Hawaii),

Select Committee on Intelligence, has to sign off on all Committee matters.

He will try to expedite.

2. (Unclassified - DTC) LIAISON Michael Murphy, in the office

of Representative Chalmers P. Wylie (R., Ohio), called concerning a

request for information on MKULTRA activities at Ohio State University.

I asked Murphy to please put his request in writing and he agreed to do so.

(Unclassified - DIC) LIAISON Visited Professor G. Robert

Blakey,

Chief Counsel and Staff Director, House Select Committee

on Assassinations, and discussed with him a variety of matters.

(See Memorandum for the Record.)

4. (Unclassified - MLG) EMPLOYMENT REQUESTS Cathy

Johnson, in the office of Representative Paul Rogers (D., Fla.),

called to request an employment interview for their constituent,

Thomas Wilcox.

After checking with Howard Fissner, WARO, I

informed Cathy that the appointment has been set for 12 October,

at 11:00 a.m.

5. (Unclassified - MLG) LIAISON Ron, in the office of

Representative James Burke (D., Mass.), called to request general

information on the CIA and also to inquire about the CIA tours.

I forwarded the publications to him and informed him that the

tour program had not been approved yet but we would be glad

to put his name on a list and be back in touch when we had firm

information.

INTERNAL USE GARY

-MODET CL BY.

Agend!

20390

---

## Page 9

INTERNAL USE CHL·

SCA

IZZ

Addendum to Journal - Office of Legislative Counsite

Tuesday - 20 September 1977

Page 5

20. (Unclassified - DTC) LIAISON David Shaw, Senate

Select Committee on Intelligence staff, called regarding the status of

the Memorandum of Understanding between the Agency and the

Select Committee concerning the release of Senate Select Committee

on Intelligence held information or Senate Select Committee on Intelligence

prepared information under the Freedom of Information Act.

21. (Unclassified - DTC) LIAISON Talked several times

during the day with Robert Andrews, Special Assistant to the General

Counsel, Department of Defense, concerning the 21 September 1977

open hearing before the Senate Human Resources Subcommittee on

Health and Scientific Research.

22. (Unclassified - DIC) LIAISON Betsy Palmer, Bill Tripplet,

and Mr. Smith, House Select Committee on Assassinations staff, visited

the Agency for a brieting by Russ Holmes, DDO, on name traces.

(See Memo for the Record, )

23. (Unclassified - KSN) LIAISON Arranged with Col. Stephen

Harrick, DOD, to have a courier pick up a copy of the Secretary of

Defense's statement before the Senate Human Resources Subcommittee

on Health and Scientific Research.

YEE L. MILLE

Acting Legislative Counsel

CC:

0/DDCI

03.

Mr.L

Ex. Sec

DDA DDI DDS&I

Mr. Lapham

Mr. Hetu

IC Staff

Compt

NIO

SA/DO/O

Ment to 0841

20391

---

## Page 10

14-00000

INTERNAL USE ONLY!

(SCA

77 - 0060

Addendum to Journal - Office of Legislative Counsel

Page 5

Monday - 19 September 1977

visits

J 25

19. (Unclassified - RSG) LIAISON Received a call from

Charlie Shaffer, IPS, who was seeking a response to be made from

Ms. Trudy Peterson, National Archives (523-3132), who is inquiring

about a Memorandum of Understanding executed between the CIA and

the House Select Committee on Assassinations, dated 19 August 1977.

I indicated that Doug Cummins would respond to this telephone call.

20. (Internal Use Only - DTC) LIAISON Talked with

Walter Sheridan and James Michie, staff of the Senate Human Resources

Subcommittee on Health and Scientific Research, several times during

the day and discussed matters in relation to the 21 September 1977

open hearing.

21. (Internal Use Only - DTC) LIAISON Talked with

Col. Stephen Harrick, DOD, and Robert Andrews, Special Assistant

to the General Counsel, DOD, several times during the day concerning

material they requested relative to the open hearing concerning Projects

OFTEN and CHICKWIT which had Defense Department involvement.

22. (Unclassified - DTC) LIAISON Talked with Anne Karalekas,

Senate Select Committee on Intelligence staff, regarding the status

of the Select Committee request on Elias Demetracopoulos and its

status. I informed her of where the matter stood.

23. (Unclassified - DIC) LIAISON Professor G. Robert

Blakey, Chief Counsel and Staff Director, House Select Committee on

Assassinations, called to request that arrangements be made for

certain staffers of the Select Committee meet with someone from the

Agency concerning name traces. He also requested that they be

permitted to review the Marina Oswald file. A meeting was set up

for Tuesday, 20 September, with Russ Holmes, DDO.

Lyled. smiller

LYLE L. MILLEE

Acting Legislative Counsel

INTERNAL GOE CHLY

CC:

O/DDCI

03

Mr.

Ex. Sec.

DDI DDA DDS&T

Mr. Lapham Mr.

Hetu

SA/DO/O IC Staff

Compt NIO

2039>

---

## Page 11

UNTERNAL USE ONLY,

HSCA

Вмер

ADDENDUM TO JOURNAL

OFFICE OF LEGISLATIVE COUNSEL

Friday - 5 August 1977

1. (Unclassified - MLG) LIAISON I received calls from

it would hopefully start in late August or early September and we would

put their name on a list and be back in touch when we had firm

information.

2. (Unclassified - MLG) LIAISON Barbara Kling, in the

office of Representative Louis Bafalis (R., Fla.), called to request

one copy of "A Study of Climatological Research as it Pertains to

Intelligence Problems. " The publication was forwarded to her.

3. (Unclassified - DTC) BRIEFING Met with Representative

Robert Leggett (D., Calif.) and briefed him on the Hughes Glomar Explorer.

(See Memo for the

Record.)

4. (Unclassified - DIC) BRIEFING G. Robert Blakey, James

Wolf, and Jackie Hess, staff of the House Select Committee on Assassinations,

were briefed in the OLC Conference Room by Bruce Johnson, DDO/Records

Control, on how DDO files and records are maintained. John Walker,

O/SA/DO/O, was present at the briefing.

5. (Unclassified - DTC) LIAISON Received a call from David

Melcik, Legislative Liaison, Drug Enforcement Agency, concerning

MKULTRA.

(See Memo for the Record. )

6. (Unclassified - DTC) LIAISON Talked with Elliot Maxwell,

Senate Select Committee on Intelligence staff, concerning addresses of

former Agency employees. (See Memo for the Record.)

'INTERNAL USE ONLY

103

cc: Mr.

DDCI DDA DDI DDS&T

Mr. Hetu

Mr. Lapham IC Staff NIO Compt SA/ DO/O

dE Range

L Cary.

Legislative Counsel

E 2 IMPDET CL ar. 5 gnes

20393

---

