# 104-10182-10000

## Page 1

104-10182-10000

100SB

ШЕД СОНО АТ Сі АДОНАИНИ ЕУ

IN ASSASSIGN IOUS SURE CURLIERES

WINSTON HENRY

2011168875

INCLUSIVE DATES:

CUSTODIA UNIT LOCATION:

19l6l

DELETIONS, TE

AVY:

hid Agenc

DATE

RECEIVED

UNDERE

RETURNED

311515.

23 mAL

2 Nor. 281

REVONSED ISY

(PRUNNIE)

Betsy lalf

BOY LOLE

JONAUNA SATH

BEZSY WOLF

SIENTURE OF

REVIEVING OFFICIAI

Bali hell

Koen Nel

Bitey kH/.

NO:

LUCINTS SAY BE CORLED OU COULD GEON THES FILE.

---

## Page 2

Ageuy Does

Kary Winston

207-6887

Vol 1t

---

## Page 3

Third Ayery Does Hany Wister

Vol II:

201-6887

---

## Page 4

Idate

220:1

azen

not

shouldabe

wtering collaborator

Or Code

potential witting collaborator: date opened

OI Code 'A2

former wittins collaborator (relatlonship terminated:

orcode SA3.

notal wittlog. collaborator

rcasongs

never contacted (security

desogacory Infognation): 01 Code A4

foreign

of Code

A5:

Inèelligence

all ochers. or code ab.

Signe

85122/2

component

This

aretennent of category has

entered/into

197

This.

page

C-0-

1-0-N-

2o1: 04%

282

PDET

056979

---

## Page 5

14-0000

There is information on an Individual

Who may be identical with the subject

of this 201 in. OPS/ITG. For details

call extension 5020:

KEEP THIS NOTICE FILED ON TOP

OF 201- 006887

---

## Page 6

DE

FOULO.

¡Di

SUBJECT OF

FRIC

LẠL

DONFILE

DOCUR

ADDITIONAL

SHOULD

REQUESTED

006-

733705

3696/01

CATE 04 DEC 7S.

09356242

201 00063872

S. E.

G. REI

E2 1MPDET CL

eY

054979

---

## Page 7

STESCERAE

DO POCUMENT TRACU

TION CONGERNING UNE SUBJECTS OE

THIS 201

FROMTANOTHERS OFF

CiLAL

DO$

ACESSARE: CAUTIONER

THAT

DOCU

ICT WAS PREPARED CONTAINS.

ADDETIONAL

THE SUBJECT AND SHOUT CABE REQUESTEO

TON

201-0006887

SEXa

MX

CITS USA

3100-006 139404

CD- 02099

MAR

RES USA

MENTIONED

"IN

ANALYSIS OF STORY OF AN

AMERICAN COMMUNIST. BY JOHN GATES•

DATE 22 MAR TA

08083288

201-006.f57

SECRET

SE2 IMPDET CL BY 054972

---

## Page 8

I11-1815

FUTLAAI/FUIS NASHEC

An: 50418e SeA, 3001062 6940'1C

alle

PRAD

16 2907:

PART

HENDER DE 900

SAESUCTOM A00 96996168

raroufacohasn.13

tel.

DONDEr 002 227 8042

---

## Page 9

IS GUE DE MORMOR DE TRE GENOCIDAL POLICY DEURO CONDUCTED DE TAR

MIXON ASMINISTEATION DO INDOCHINA, TRE CERCA MOVERENTEN AGE

UNITSU STATES NURT IS A MOVEMENTOR THE RAJOPIY, TE CULPRUSES

CEMENTESE DE DEGORIRLOF 216 TOE DEGOLE Di THE DEGREE STATES,

17 UNITOS PEOPLE DE LAPYINA POLITICAL VERGA GLACHO GlIFO SONT,

THE" TO NARTY AROWE

Marlo die 100e Pel de de tejed de cele

HETT

PLANES ANO CREO ALE MIOCE 0E

---

## Page 10

1976- 1X9

Tans"

THESE

THE PESPLENOE NOSTRETTO

¿GUES MODO DEGLE YOU TELL ME DETENE CONTENT ERET IS DES

SESCONSE TO TRE SOMEN

SOVIET JUITIATIVE ANO IT DE GOFUNG DO CHEATO A 20NS. ShENE

ALEAN HA",

Gun Cancella

AFOR ILL

retante del Glen bOuld Cile

-RODICE H0102164

esi sociery

---

## Page 11

dung came?

COURSE OF THE TRIAL?

""

CRUSHERS FIRST DE ALL COTING

COMMUNIST PARTY, FROM THE COCMITTFES COR THE DEFENSE OF INSECA

RAMIE ANO FROM dOILI

-EVIE PERSINALLY.

AND TRAINS TO THE CLACUOSLOVAS COOLE LADISE COUCAGEDUSLE AND

SELFLESSLY SPRUGGLE FUE DUE SUAL FREEDOO AE TOE POLITICE RHTOGNERS,

PERSECUTEO OP DIE MONSFOLIORE AND GAGESTO DU TIG UNDICE STATESA

PRUNESTIOSDD THANE PROTEST MUSTI

AND 19 65 FART ALL GREGEL ME THE GAGAlEEEE TETERGEAT:

AGAINST TOE RECALE DE VIETNA, SIG 19 13 GET

FLAMPLE DE THE POLICE PROGNON AGICH THE MELICO SEATLE SURiNEES

ALL PUSSIOLE SOROP EF

CREMANY ANO THE APARTMEGE COYGENGCEE DE COOTE AERINEE MIE.

pain de corlene delice lesus ie due theres

---

## Page 12

ACCAS MION MY GRADA CA COU GORGE PEERLE DE BEE GASTRO

STATESO

THE POOR GOMINISTAOTIOR TO NOR TARIKE

FEEE DO PACE THE CUCKORE COUGT DA SUCH A MAN PAT DS SECONES

ANYON COUNT, NHUSE RULINGS MUG PE POSTE CUT AUL TRE PAGUeLSSIVe

PEACE UL LEGISLATION OR TRE CONGRESS AND ENCOY GOOGRESSIVE DEGISTOR

OF THAT COURTO ANO THAT IS DAN ERRLORS RE PERNO MADE TO PREPARE

CURSING DEALERICH MEDI MANNO DO GOSSUELE DOTE DULY TO SADE

THE NAS BEYONU TE STA CUT ALEG SO DUESORT FOUCES LOGING THE

UNTIEU STATES MICH MOULE CRUEN PEE LACE GIIZGATIGN NUVENING

AND CHALE THE UNITE O6 PHE CORINO GEOPLE LOISO CONGROHAN

€0418:

---

## Page 13

CMAZOLLCI

205 GUUuUS?

LSBOLRG

Aiva

NUGNGN SIRD HU

TO CHIS WASHOC

F2UD

*: T

Pdlecuts ot fuft

"i""

cone ip 1d-d:0n

3NG.44

C2036

CousA Creg9uaN ebeilee chos ilat

p'tog"

lalo e lauleedlud dedeledd HIl.:?

rtlateai

etegeae dsdaddugdel E dnni: dei Mirte deargll).

c Mee lehwrudlal eaed er Paetttüg

Mle MaeTOGtT di?E

il'i!.

wegew orr in Fallherchhlelitd ir l.y

1rcadetlOnnl

15F Ml : 5

ee laatt dl tud Gundi..149

HLNRHiü Cranl?PE",

reeeee li aleondde dee de eoe diide weeetpe ccolea.

féckista,

---

## Page 14

LOZA CHISZEOIG TS

MBACTES

en eS CISLASel

PSFOL LTAar

MeSPoar

- Ther

SSTS0MNCAECA

NCDESEOUAEI A0S

CCEOSTTO SIGIDE SOMIELOIO

Sono teisu tre ustn2or

TES SOCIALASE CCUMALGSOIEL

ZNg teein eng:

MTTANMNUU PIOSSAN

Pesera

NF

XLso rinneo trelprorue on czucacecov lo doa unsue

Ruepory or acGFLe der5e

AO sAptedY Pis desa,aSicos GoTM

PIECHOILININIA AILL TE

pesepuar ton cogerts eorurt

eToT2 COSTALLAAYO 19/1a320 *a"

---

## Page 15

TIC 30 May Ta

FAST DEADLANT

port by

Verbert

tors of the Seo central Co

the GOR:

POLT BURO PEST MET NECESS

Cast 301th sues reus

rochen collabora

Rcash Embassy

18

Central Col

Hermann Aren-cel

Central Comminteo,

munists, reassurine them prince

cont in

GDR working peoplo in thers

the "derense of

anty of.

Me SED. and the

and see tale prosene, con

Hermann Axen extensively. Inford the U.S. workers leader about the liplementation of

the decisions of the Elghth sos Congreas and the opals strugglc for peace and security

In Europe.

The talk once again confirmed she full agreément of the SED and the CÜSA on all basie

questions of the struggle of te world commurist movesent and served the further

deepening of the fraternal relatiors. between the tuo parties.

At a very cordial seeting with reprosentatives of the GDR Committee for Human Mights.

Henry Winston, chairman of the catsa, movingly outlirad the efforts of chousands of

U.S. citizers in defense of Ange:a Davis.

BRIEFS

HONECKER VIEWS SOVIET FILM--The iNo tiral parts of the Jorlet film epie "Liberation"

are having their solemn firat aight In the QDR al the Fosmos Cirena in Serlin.

Questg

of honor at this event are Firs: secretary of the sEi

central Committee Erich Honecker

and USSR Asbassador Mikhali derruct.

[Text) LEaa: Berlin Voice of the GDR Lorestle

• Service in derman 1700 00 8 ME 111o

GDR-SOVIET. FAZENDSHIF EXHIBIT-Serin--alted ly Priéndship-Por the Has ors: 05 14r

Peoples" 1s tie morto of the exile lon which opened: in berlin on 8 Ma5 on the. 2jh

anniversar

of the Germar-Sel: julendario Socioty."

wests at the perime ceremory

were Maus jys:, GoR alaistor no initire.

P..T. Seppraos, USSH antassaga ta the GoR.

and a deleenting of un sorit sately for trienishl. mith. the ich.

Eas: Beriin

ADY Internaluna: Service 19 Geraan 1027 G90 8 May Ti 1.!

Wit

---

## Page 16

TA NASIOL

EHVRE

lchis

Aetis ton,

ana uinet ruurd

eg1O

bor 0xa0a2: 216-1914

62492

Jascpnano tuch tecSinsham

atHat

dnstans

moveu to

ne Crty?

Mesours, about 1927.

Joreph kinstoni

died thire on october 26, 1908. alle and his bide hae been:

aeparated lor any yeal.

winston had scueralestosers and el brother, nanely.

Dord Hunphrey, Litte Derte Biack, Robenta Sm.tn, and Ofis D.

riinsion. inothér sister, dma Lee lcconico, ds Joid.

ipparontly none. o1 tinsion's timily cver bocome atfiliatod

nith the CPUSA.

Bo Lariind slalu:

On Say 2. 1911, Menry Hanudon dnd Adii Ledder, a

whato nitive-bord den forker, bero marracd in trookign, dor lork.

kuna wal: born Aprxl 23, 1918. Her lurher wa Loön iu liussli,

aind hes muther da dustrid. Hendy and lidnd hare cuo chaliren,

Larry Douglas, burn February 11, 1918, and Judarl Anne, born

coptonber 25,

1oso, boid in dew surk cier.

Lhe: 2'é a Tatrel Siaduo

Ürust 1969

552 57696 185-4-134/

lijeisien fiineg

20)

E TAT

---

## Page 17

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 18

sass-born

193:7

ork city, the sales tinate sou on as orda

Sal thoug D

Heng sins ton as otto reterred to as bes tatien

He bas

Crai

spottensed

Ut thron

romance

is be is current?

bity

and 13

lives

the do harrend recon

10040509020

050 10t

Since

acployede

C CA

Faluca tun

Cineton atronace tencoln turner chuolde home eats

Matron: 1928 toyabo

Ut 19300022402

co anployner

Whale to Sabes Cute he vorked or here incuss

* Jobs aron 1930 to 1932 bitore found to

a dish Cars. Fine.

to, he bar gaven her full tina do chide corvindes.

22002034

In November, loud, mindion da mil

Barch 4s9roni occrdx2t5/199

chool, worth Nege roses

SovietnUnion:

---

## Page 19

and their

so children, went to the Sovier Umon to

35421201 1961.

misste and chilareas recurned to the United States zu Novenber

1961, but inson rained abroad ton to and altaycars During

examstration:

decors for his virtua glindnessa onkins aptures he Stagearge

has beeneto East Gerbari

toice and had attended cons esses of the

Compenisy parties an Hungary, Czechosloval lao ang Butsazia, lan

addition to neving traveled extensively in tae Soviet Ünios.

winston has indicated that he has traveled to many

socialist countries throughout the world, Including hed China

as well as Korea, Indonesia, and other places, unere he had

discussed the international connunist movement and the probiers

cornectod therewith,

winston with his wife, fero, went to Santiago, Chile,

in October, 1965, to attend the 13th Congress of the Chilean

Cormunist Party as a delegate-observes.

In March, 1960, they traveled to the sovie. Union tu

attend she. 23rd Congress of the Communist Pari: u: tri: Soviet

Unson. They revisited rat coudury in the call of abor, as part

of the official delegatson of the CPUSA, to aticuo the join

77

---

## Page 20

2/2005

de garron to the nos lo Congerence of contenes Sentenkers

Scon Nessineet

February 420. 29120

anda tonorably en sentimenti veter

012/18.15

nath the recheot Tecnican ant euclass.

dale wich orette

scalce no acted as a pobile delociois deoried

and was

attached tu the London Public kolutions Orisce ct te resso

Interest soction.

ü: Health

On January 12. 1960 authorities ci tu tito oler:

Penitentury at Terre Mance, partond, Quare distie Was

':"'

Incarcerated, stated tat le bas lut dud copierdito kerosin

a culisiuence,

Minata bas operated do retratter ile.

lookilly

blind.: Un June 30, Mul, le hai deiessed doun teleon dellortr

comutatson of his sintonce ly Prestone disdet

-nepsairbnassaaulaa

---

## Page 21

ЭРРЕ

r9so, Fern minaton adrasce frot coctors

an the Soviet Luon told 1003ton

that he aust reture to that

country for hosparalization and treatment twice a year for

periods of four to pet necks.

This treatment, consisting os

injections

Is suppose to reduce.

the bood pressure and emete minato to secret feaste

SOne

contrast betscen dark and light.

Winston has clairco or auberous occasions that, while

in prison, the Goacramt doCtors mido a trond Carloses

i saialt, de is son cline. di covemier i.

p:150r.

anaton boought suit mraanst the lar

Runent for one cien collers under roc reveral Torts claims

Miterine deer the taglurg of prison author tées to properly

More las condurtion and to traft his for al

Antonor had

¿autare leg becomine potato klind on Januars 18, 1965;

---

## Page 22

however.

Gunsten' e essaire:

Aba, saic bộ

Lucasse ca

D of erscheine the n

tros rauson seshors ties

and detause the case

cas cropolar Lass

35421

anzosen 220!

Wins ton riconde du

mas getape le als

3306594

Lave antes

10c355

wirts tourtre

YOr:

New

York.

11. CorEuRiSt ParTY ASCULEatIONS

History

Winston joined the sel au Januars, 1051, and became

sonnes of the CHUse in the Sauner uf 1931.

lu bereckel, 1932,

he Jeff Frosas City, Sassoudi, ded ICh delipale To Doe National

Huuger Horch in weshinpio D. co, and ihen piotreded de lil fors

City, marie no porkos for ihr gound lender," otteriai

OIta1

In 1930, ne s: Chaire et the Marion Bonh Boer lon

on au Uneaployd counils und was inter annod Chairan of the

Yout section of the Chenploree Council tot une Ne York City

meiropolitan area. from dural throush dovember, lo3i6, de vis

Section Onarizorod th VOl. du Brooklyn.

---

## Page 23

From November, 1933, to May, neus, he wust e ung coviet

union, phere he detended the Legto Sehool. upon is returo lo

the Unsted Statesinhe becade Orsanizational Suerttany, of the

¡culin Cleveland and was naned to the Onio Distract Comrittee of

ung YCLe in March, wins winston us baned YO, Nat logsi

Orramzat1001 Secretary, and in May, 1937, was electeu icL

Sa tronal Ade mistrative Secretar yo

Winston was activese the Yeb as editor of the rougg

Communist her you," official angerame of the tor, and ast

Director of ti YCL Training School Held at Caup seacou,

New York, durias 1937 and 1938. He was reelected YEL National

Administrative Secretary in May, 1939, and held this office

until his induction into the friay iu February, 1912.

winston became a mouber of the CPUSA Mational Cormittee

In June, 1940; was olegted a menber of the Coumunist Political

Association National Conmitice while serving. in the Armed Forces

in 1944; andiwas renamed to the CPUSA National Cormittee in July,

1945. From October, 1915, to July, 1946, he surved as Sucretary

of the Parcy's jational Negro Commission. He was named a member of

the editorial iaff of "policical Affairs" in 1910. la July, 1946,

ie vas elocted a membor of the Party's Nacional Board and appointed

CPuS, National Urgartzational secrotary. He hold the latter position

nil his disappearance into the Party's underground apparatus ir Juis,

- 91

---

## Page 24

ider

CPUS

CePUS

Chairman

Execut

20:1

18th

Satomit Convention of the Cruss in Junc, 1906, le was elected

Crust Nurt one Chaerman.

y. currant activity

Mriston as currents CPUSA Notaonal Cheermon and a

menber of the Sccretarint.

the Nitional Frecutive Boord, and the

Nitional Committee.!

compossional testimony

Minston restitiou before the Senate Arned Services

Committee on april 2, 19l6, On behold of the CPUSA in opposition

lo unival miltury traming and the draft.

1. Indictments id Arrests

unston was Midacted on July 20, 1916, under conspiracy

provisions of the Say Act of 1910. Me was tried, convictou,

esculenceo to Tive

prisonment, and lineu stopoou but

---

## Page 25

fled to eppese to segeras Court due committee to pricon

de retained a rogative ended too surrender

on March or 1956, as a recult of anich de recerved an acuriosul

terer-year sentence ton

coateapt ut court. Wisetue siratned sn

prison unter las segrence bus commited be presidear fenca, on

Juac 30, 1050/

Pos reason of fest res

02% 3450204

0302 803 pess conse create on, enemiesee tie

nihe ton high sue, oven paced beddose of Was narctrentrunder

inc Smath tute KinS on's indictrent under tae sauth act wis

dismissed on tay, 29, 1963

111, Charscttr1z+tz2r

Paysteal appearance

winsion is six feet till. He is stockily built,

weighing around 200 pounds. He has black buir, broan eyes, and

pockmarked luce: du uresses neatli, dears a suit end die, und

appenis sube nell grooted to uli times.

Bo 140:15 und liLos;nerastes

because of tis seat-colal blindcess, tinstor hes in

än it 15 anit to nep inorned about milde mt morld events

D

---

## Page 26

and facetoluments

her debitos

SS-002Ci:

won satell tot postead.

dea yare careere

Des to sure to is Sorter

RelE

Ene neuter:

R2S u0lca

wishes

Weston!

ferns is i

3089191

net sampians:

Sh 64S 10 Cu58 14

nurses

Sucreturn

dots no dear da desa tapen

but except couscoes talk as resuntee to here plantch

up their marital daleulaes dnd dersuaded then to stay dooether.

Winston eceupies mis top post in the cpusA by virive

of the face that hold, wen to beant General Secretary, needed

a prostient Negro furt inder to cire sun support because vi

his own lock of soileim nong Party Segroes. Since kinsion

is. nos in arportal cigure di the national leadership, lill 98

ottis segro sunctionates die obliged do de attentive to and

Mil is arginily cesential indi mation is careltial

to his continuiio duio suppuri in the fario and this be nus:

nceess.rily frent minion sat deference. Mill deportedls wate

Lilie nothing better coin to have Soviet doodore keep minston in

tic ISSR 1u% an indirie period of tire wien lie visits

Lil Counry luFF dad chsi-up, therby preventing Rinston

An Nint.

---

## Page 27

790 2400493841506 deCPUSS

2.1928

AS 15054230:

33p5

66 5

the

i6S.

Dac1a 4is release arom erasca

asi

9958= S055e

92:

212 secon

Montor 49

iss 5a3a

inge

0:25

1208

.E..

Pant

FAS

Associates ar?

hut 0a28

seatons ca

He mude at dorous tant bobas to be consulied rich his ipanis.

workers in the nationil neadquurters,

winston is terror; to

associates and comorkers, he is rogunt und donincering.

•evertheless, minston is considered io be caesauctive:

and populor Party lecior mong tri truership, ratic s tell as

Fluck. he was an engubing person ling and is dimags smilang or

isighiag. because o: his pleisani, cooperative dencinor: his

•is: relaionship tit: coopit. li sains 10 like everjone, und

In mis rise to tie top lendership, vanston vis extronei!

arill to faithfully foilon tae soviet und tid archling ClS.

line di ill tires end to be in tuat with the thinking or his

45

---

## Page 28

superiors, Witte sorterun and decisive in deunte, neares)

displared any. independence or Muntiative, bat houd 15 tie

Party, Line.

de avocacd seconing aueraly contentious do debate

or discussion because do Marted to be on the stue or those who

counted nosed terms of authoritu and leuders D

is worked

well math people on senattees, but becase firm then lesues

of romeus were ay stake

desare they die destresser hener

or drais

Hernever

glen with a person so press authority

or Standing but went along as a

good gus.

Hans con tess cleur of personal gote que ano mascurering:

In the Party!s Nepto cure, which is perpetually diviductand rare

wilh unending rivalry and backuiling, he strives to play lie role

of the middleman or the pacifier.

As a speaker, Wiuston is uf the roug!-and-tunble type

who is a good agitator. He makes an effort lo assume a dignificu

stance on the platfona and soldon resorts to exagrurated oratorical

antics.

He gives cvory indication-in speech and in vocabulary-

of having had minial schooling.

His extenpore languane is

chupps, jasuganizco, coiloquial, and tuli of aspromiciation

o! even

sanple words. I: has virtually no besiaos

skill and is

• not known to haye aucco.od any type oi document during las long

career in tie Party.

Specches, reports, and articies issued

under his name are the work of ghost writers.

---

## Page 29

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 30

RISTON DESC

Xose ow

a acto 79603 2 mar n:1

had

Vietnan

in Cho: sage

muntat Party

1n

on

ervened

de: Star 17.

DESA ZIRERLASTONLE AFFAIRS

radi so pue dezaiday when the adamatration talks of cussing milliary spending and

of: saviro cho alves of u.s. servicezan.

no comuntara bcodeve, that ri: a cent should

se spent on the aggressive war baged shousands on -dea away fron sta shores of our

Country.

lonry. vincion condemed the canpada of political persecutlon comfucied sy

iuthorices.

the

= do quica surg, ho

U.S.

caphasized, that the forshcosing triat

o. angela

Daris in california 1s

= polescal

conspiracy: Icetire la savia a few days

a60.

intes ay tada with her i decame even Lore convirced oficha political enracter of thla

tria

5ho case co higeia Davia has déer frazed up by ibe racialiss and ánta-

communist forces of the State or Canniorada.

201-006897

---

## Page 31

(3 ABRICAS)

ase Washinaton DAiLy hens pointe ous eta

Laxpayers 100 cation dollars armally

he !Peace Coops' peera, which coste

ad tasseractos find better ways to use these funds.

ques not work, and raisests chat the

oferesar dachana on nas an fact accouleased tre ratiue ease peace corpsy activity.

is evidenced by tre White Bossels deciston

to

Der 6e she

so-called corps of teachers.

Peace Corps with visTa,

me activaty of such centralized ryolunteer

House, may bring creater returns for the

(1cel, 1r the optacon of the anale

dollars

See the u.Spress casta sercous doubt a che

siveness of the adainistration

plans, and nos without reason.

The, fageless

ten fear activity

che peace Corps mace bars la Aerica convinced

that do one? except for.

Racological saboteurs, needo this

Gratunteero organization.

HENRY WINSTON DESCRISES O.S, RACIST POLIETES

RosS Talentil service in English 0905 or 21 00 7 3

:(5-4t):

Neva or peb 37 pess speaking as the tou raculty of to rato unsversity in

caven on eider sational Chaurgan Of the Construst Sarsy of tre mitco states

Hensy Winston has bald that sion o pol109 aimed eg excisson es the ver de Cambodia.

- Laostand

other areas or indo China, 10 actually the racisited bolley of Anersean:

Lapertalism

Henry vinston has exchasizedunas the Dolley of the presens-cay soverrent of the

Unitea Scates becoes

reasinay renacing.

intersicicasion of rac

and anticor unisn

plenry Winston sald this policy leads to

as component pares of the progranne, alned

as ellaination of the

sistance to the

governments line.

Current reprisals asairat civil rigit fignters are only the beginnang of a eampalen

wich was launched wich the alo os breaking the resistarce of she degro people.

This campaign 1s

r.ois

spearneaded against Angela

Davis. a symbol of strugile against

racism and citicoranise.

mese reprisals, if thoy are hos suiy rebuffed, wild

sonerror spread to the whole of the kerican poople, blacks ard unises.

The strucele

in detence of Angala Davis and other political prisoners is, crerefore, tro battor of

honour ¿or all drericans, who cherish freedom and peace.

U.S. CONTUNIST PARTY ISSUES SINTERENT ON INCELA DAVIS

Moscow TASS Interna loral Service in English

0820 GUT. 28 Peb 7: 1

[Tex:!

New York, Peb

28,

TASS--The Na

total Woners Corission of the Corcuniat Party

of the USA Issued

the following statezer: for Internatioral Woors Days

are vicious "ramous persecution o. adge:

attack upon the signis o? all uro striaz

fro= capitalist exploitation.

In acci:ior.

would escape

the yone of racist oppression

Davis by the fixor-igre-Reagan axla 11 an

for peace, democratie rights ard freedon

Angela Davis shares cro plight of all who

901-606887

---

## Page 32

SECRET.

3 E

THUN-OF

00 DO

DOP EUR 3, 159 8, CA 3. C1/SO 2

SECRET

OS 135A2 JUN 70, CITE

DIRECTOR INTO

LCPIPIT

INTEL

SUPDATAS

0071:

SJul: 097 527

FILED:

ZRUAHOD FOR HOS COMMENTAL THERE PREVIOUS REPORTING:

ON BUDAPEST MEETINGE KRCASH/L. "HYU-HAY

RELAY

WITHOUT FIELD COMMENT FOR

PASSAGE TO LIAiSON iF ALL REFERENcES

REMOVED, USING BYLINE "AFRICAN MARXIST WITH GOOD

CONTACTS INTERNATIONAL COYMUNIST CIRCLES.

INDEX:"

ULYANOVSKY FILES OVARAORP

0513542

201

SECRET

---

## Page 33

SECRET

Consors

DO MOTto

1Y5v0

THIS COPY

PRONIBITED,

ANL -2514

AF. 9

SNACO

DOP, EUR B, SE 8, CANS, CI/SO 2

SECRET OSISSAZ JUN 70 CLTE

DIRECTOR INFO

LCPIPiT

INTEL

MOTI

5 Ju: 097 527

SUPDATA ZANAHOO DOR HOS COMMENT IF THÊRE PREVIOUS REPORTING

ON BUDAPEST MEETING. KRCASHAI. HYU MAY

RELAY

wITHOUT FIELd cOMMeNT FOR

PASSAGE TO LIAISON IF ALL REFERENCES

REMOVED, USING BYLINE "AFRICAN MARXIST WITH GOOD

CONTACTS IN INTERNATIONAL COMMUNIST CIRCLES.

INDEX: ULYANOUSKIY FILE: QUARAQRP

FILED: 6513542

WINSTOR, HeWEy

20 l

SECRET

To kill

---

## Page 34

SECRET

CIA INTEPNAL USE ONLY

INTELUGENCE INFORMATION CABLE

DATE S JUNE 1970

IN

097527

PAGE 1 OF? PAGES

The following intelligence information, transmined from o CLA Field Station, requires reviewe

DREN for BACKGROUND USE ONEY TO SDO.2

COUNTRY: USSR/ AFRICA

DOI8

LATE APRIC 1970

SUBJECT: PLANS FOR WORLD COMMUNIST REETING AND FOR MEETING

OF AFRICAN COMMUNISTS

1. CONSIDERATIIN S BEING GIVER TO HOLDING ANOTHER

MEETING OF WORLD-W DE COMMUNIST AND WORKERS PARTIES. A

PREPASATORY MEETINI FOR THIS MAY BE HELD IN BUDAPEST GEFORE

SECRET

---

## Page 35

097527

STDC

PAGE 2 ONE PAGES

SECRET

THE END OF 19700 AMONG SUBJECTS TO BESDISCUSSED ATS THE

PREPARATORY MEETING WOULD BEAUHETHER OR NOT TO CONVENE

A PEEKING OF AFRICAN COMMUNIST AND IF SO. CHERE VANI

THEN IT SHOULD BE HELDS

DURING A LESTING UTTHETHREE

LEADING PRO-COMMUNIST NIGERIANS TO MOSCOW ON 30 A

1976, POSTISLAV A ULYANOVSK TY, A DEPUTY CHIEF

OF THE INTERSATIONAL DEPARTHENT OF THE CENTRAL COMMITTEE

OF THE COMMUNIST PARTY OF THE SOVIET UNION (CC-CPSU) URGED

THEM TO CONSIDER ATTENDING THE PREPARATORY CONFERENCE IN

ORDER TO PARTICIPATE, IN DISCUSSIONS OF THE ALL-AFRICA MEETING

(FIELD COMMENTS THE SAME SOURCE REPORTED IN TOCSD8-315/

22646-70 ON OTHER ASPECTS OF THIS MEETING SETUEEN OFFICIALS

OF THE CC-CPSU AND NIGERIAN TRADE

UNION LEADERS W. O. GOODLUCK AND

S•U• BASSEY AND NIGERIAN AFRO-ASIAN PEOPLES

SOLIDARITY OFFICIAL-DAPO.,FATOGUN.)

RUTHE IDEA OF AN ALK AFRICA RESTING OF COMMUNISIS

AS INTIATED BY AFRICANS ATTENDING THE MEETINGS OF GORLD

CONNUMIST LEADERSCIN MOSCOU ON 20 AND 22 APRIL 1976. AMONG

THE AFRICAL ESTED COMUNISTS ATTLIDING THE NOLTING WERE

SECRET

---

## Page 36

IN 097527

TOCS

PAGE 3 OF 3 PAGES

SEGRET

there

FAUST

MINST ON OF THE UNITED, STATES AND DELEGATES

FROM SOUTH AFRICA, MOZAMBIQUE, ANGOLA AND GUINEA-BISSAU.

SON FIELD DISSENS STATE:

REPORT CLASS SECRET NO FOREIGN DISSEN CONTROLLED DISSEM GP-I

SECRET

---

## Page 37

BELESARGITTO CUSA, CRUSA e srito Ted a Sa Terre tony e a Pers Winse,

Blockedo of Cusa l

10-201

U.f, concura

"?..

{0685}

173

BE TONFOLEY

NE: TORK. Soprj- diodiran con:

1:170.s1

sarand sicol becausa

Winston.

natte

DAILY WORLD Saturday: September 6,1952 Page:

Brazil junta

gives in

RIO DE JANSISO 50S3

command. the ForeigniMiniste

The Brasilen coverg;

and hich nationa lauthorities:

vent bound today o l'e demands

this way ne responsibilit

St a bard of esse deter

Zwal be completely upon the heat

mined mon who sid epped U:S:

ofithe kidnappers for the safety e

sarick and

Ambassädory Di Burke: Elbrich

threatened to esecure timm

*the statement sang

The

Foreta

arastn

The kidnappers. weres believe:

rounced in sul se e polisca

to. be members: ol

MMIR81"

courcerent came hario an hour

Perpiratiot

of an ultimatum chat presumably

would have meant drith for the

si venr-old entor

The

ambissidor mis

seized

Graziliar university students. T

innats stand for Movimier

Revolucionaria and the 8 refer

to the date of the death of Ernest

The/Guevara, the Cuban revol

cidary killed in Bolivia Oce e

by a band of feur men di a Riode

Sareiro street Thurday and thie

kidrappers

set a crature of 13

hours

their comands

1u. be

mel.

Ther repeated the clima um

marring buf mired up. the

coadice der aeceptance, of their

8:30 p.m.

•l:30

EDT. jodar.

The goremment.a.aian

ament

came. at.18.30p.ra

• 11:37 a.m.

EDT:

mier it receised a hand

Nalien

fren the

ambassa:

ent he was

nel burs;

accata

pRo gui-

stud he

termined

miginal

Swiss protest

Westmoreland

planned visit

GEYEYA:

Gereral Westmore

1a-d..

L'S

Thied of Stall. sill

make an official four day visit la

Switterlard beguining Sept 11.

Westmoreland

formerls. com

marder-in-chief

of L'S.

arme:

forces in

South

Vietnam

t'1:

familiarize rimseld prin the stat:

of combut readines

il the sui.

unand forres.

il alio 1.

ment a camber of Si

ti mottar.

minacenters

Purere

organi the chis faii

cath da

"dis

nas pub

chii:

---

## Page 38

alfeets that

Sland bui

Percyc

Cuba bras Cons

horis defordinary Actricon br

The Frie

•binetee:

Tatarin.

thunupols

number of lems. reluding

There 1 was ate to vegerve

the

the crimes

sicel and nickel that ears sato his

car sad reinigerator Winstca

the cour

also the conceness marter

surce de'ralaria.

Cuba hes cumbaied malari

Laine

So Specaccie sur

pointed out: Cuba has jo percent:

2ol she world's: nickel' diposits.

Which the:

sorbis paracet

he noed.

if Cuba has underaien :Serase

loe schiet L'nich."

Merborize spre

truster on

Country sit

sired it

rames will

Indicated?" sta

governnient ger ta rublic dia:

- rent:

The decision dus sakenalte

a meeting of te hich milita

There's no, septer

on the Daily World.

ICe at your reus stand.

the effect of these crites."-he

Winston gave his views to a

Cuba s

train

concera

press conference, at Conununist

said.

totas is the batte for inde trial.

* The economic blockade aCuta

12a:0n

of the country

Part Headquarers Here a few

Wirsion

nor: onls altects normal tade

days alier his return from Cuba.

*He 1a a Communist Party dele:

sugar. steel: logsters* tz.

aid. tressing that the fight to

produce 10 railhon sons af sugar

scientific exchaase. for exiliete,

is an important one in Cuba and

gatoo that sisited evers province.

Winston poisted out.

in Cuba sa August

will help it to meet international

Doctors are prevented tracigo.

cormitments and improve: the

Sée editorial Page 1

ing to Coba, exchanging intorma:

mechanization of agriculture

lion: from kelping do train tech.

Cuba is shoring how a cruntry

nicians and uber dectors.

The blockade cl. Cuba affects

perratic and politiest relucas

bequeen tiS. and latin america

he went on

C:S. consumers bit:

%. It's not onty a matter ut sugar.

but alta steél. in terms of the U.S.

Steel monopoly: and truse

*. he

said

"It's rot only sugar prices -

Cuba is the world's second largest

sugar roducer

= but teren the

price is fobsters."

Tastes d'of reccivine Cuban lubr

sters lS consumers get lobsters

iren 1e raustrascist and apart-

regime of South Africa.

ssid.

This trade hetwech

South

Africa

actually

regime which opposes

ing decent in ite world."

emphasized that reversal

ice of the Vison Almin-

osards Cuba is Mie only

ancter

delieving

sionates towards Latin

can.

develop under cocialism.

• from using teribeons. he added:

he curcluded, -This. in turn. is

Life span rode:

Despite all this.

kang a ven dramatic effect on

some most

the restinf Latin America. Thistis

inspiring developments in succee.

ely cormaticing relations with

are Laking. placerin-Cuba ledar

¿Cuba is'a prerenuisite for develop

he

said. " Despite'

his torett

Ins coronal relations sith: Latin

scicrtific exchunge. thelitt span America.

Black GIs anti-war action

reported in South Vietnam

tavor Lisi - More this i bid Gis staged an.an-uar

protess Jul Ji in the port base ef Qui Ston. in Kinb'tea province.

according to a report by the Liberation Press Agency of South fier

#am.

The report, as transmitted bPreosa Lating, said as ibe mem

marched frora one end of the base to the other and also marchedon

the focal airport.

They reporiedis

"shouted slogars-demanding

rpeace, the endorthe t.S. agression ia Tieram and the immediates

wahdrandlột se Cs. troops."

a the airport the black Gis battled with cops e to tried to stops

the demonstration.

Episcopalians vote $200,000 "reparations'

By RICHARD GREENLEIF

Negro priple for centuries of

Lucius Walker. Jr

execture like'a voung lads whokrows what

the Interreligious

to do to get a joung man's altca

NEW YORK. Sopt 3 - Church

The resolction adopted by the

Foundation for Continunit O:-

lion. thea falling sack on her vir

leaders to the ls: are sullsus.

Episconalians included a passage

ganization. so which he charged

tue shen the question's pipped.*

ing to evade ile: princinies see-

rejecting the idenliay"

of thie

forth lathe Black Manifesto: even

that many churches and synages:

Ile

suggested that recourse

Manifesto

ves were secting to avoid doir?

might be had lo the Uv or ar

though some churches are making

The Rew Ceorze 3. Murray.

anything about the Black Mari.

international court of lam

parments on the reparations de

Bishop of Alabarak said in the

festo...

The

1915. Paris:' Conference:

count which the Manifesto holds

course of the debale: I cannot

Walker

was. addressing

he argued, established the validity

they owe black Americans.

vote. for a

group: whose, only

National Catholic Conference for

of reparations. being giten to in

Such is the situation following

record, is this manifesto, a sio

Interracial: Justice.

mecting

this sock's action by a contention

Trat. Marxist document.

in

dividuals rather ihan to nations.

Los Angeles: IFCO is the group

One of the most fervent pleas

of the Fpiscipal Church.

which

But the resclunch did reeng-

which financed the niceting

made at the Episcopalians" mecti

alter too dars of beated drate

nize the Black Eccaonic Devel

Detroi: earlier this year at which

ing was that of the Rey. Juniu:

in South

Read.

list..

rpirene Conteresce as a more-

the BEDC was founded and the

F. Carter. Negro rector uf Holg

$200.000 to 190 Block Frenoirie

nient for

the seif.

Manifesto formulated

Cross Episcopal Church in Pitts

Divelopment

Recep which

dermination

ut the black coin-

inurity.

"Alter all the churches" rhe:-

burgh.

promulgatet le

uric about lore, bestherhood and

"I am sick of you." he cried

Manifesto and his torn clients

jastire."

liater said, "at mary

"You: don't trust me, you don

critice parenchis on die i

• :: 11-

real he mus vece boldy to lion id days the churches due tie

The alien Mulland by less tin

lso nreas an address by the Rev.

points it is tiptoent when ta?

trust black priests: and you don"

seal proposition is put, arting

tru blacs people.

---

## Page 39

IF alas

nsa thie ant!-

shue l hase said.

really:

ran Fetroleum Cont

scists 2.000 2701

manifesty

for a wireues of at wate" Past

cartied

out a (wolaind policy. They bo

in June. 19RS D

'failed to do

nember slotes in July

hated one was when negotiating

denuerals and police

so. anil this.had a bad influence

the Polish capilal: Cert: satu

othcialls and another wadsber

Deo Nasi election

eturned in Saarbruerk: for the

in the clertions then beine held

chut it he had known dite had

Thes- Should have detene the

proposer"etriordinars

Denied i would never hase cube toel mered mut poles

Rect Linghausen

Czechuslovake purts. cungress

sotel: in the predium that

manifesto

Czerhoslovakia Shoult reture the

Continued onpageo

fol Strugele Against

Harison has been formeit

mands have been

made br

arge stations that the ND!

annes The " West German

Unran of Employes is.

g the most recent to do so.

Blockade must be ended, l

Go nationalized

--U.S. Communists in Cuba

The government:

Special to the Daily World

ng ut housig. schools:

decided so nationalize all pre

short on advance on

every.

HA VAVA.

frunt,

Winston

transpart sertire

allenry

Aug: 28:

: ba

* tram establish e

na tronat

sin nclude tormer bus

chuirman of the Communist

The

concreter the boldness, in the

will be paid a fixed

Party of the US A iho is

planning of construction and' the

heading an American Com-

mass undertaking in cadre trai

munist delegation sting

ing to be able to manage this un",

leanelection

here issued the following

dertaling:

INTACOS The Communist

Stalement:

Just imagine a plan which be

to eule will run its own

US imperslism. before the

eins with the date output a il.a

didate en nest year's presi.

revolution, arevunted for 35 pers

Inters of milk: to be increased to

Mal Clerion The candidate s

ront of Cuba s'imports and 66 and

one million per day: And what:

ne will be disclosed in Septem-

two thirds percent of all her ex-

then The crestion ofa milk-

ports.

processing plant in which all-kinds

How to strangle in-infancy the

of dairy products will be develop-

ge ban on fascists

greatest event of our time in this

ed.

-The Union of Peri

hemisphere was the main concern

HENRY WINSTON

Such is the approach in every

is Persecuted Under. Nazism

of the U.S. monopolists. They

field.

: again demanded a ban on the

broke off diplomatic and trade

own eyes how an entire people is

Of great beauty is that racist

@ fascist National: Democratic

relations.

Beared.

to the accomplishment

practices ended with imperialism

rty in West Berlin.

The West

The mass release of revolution-

of the main Lasi of realizing with-

and among the many great lessons

rlin -NDP is preparing for a

ary energy. the unity and creati-

in one year 10 million tons of sug-

uf this revolution is the equality

rention scheduled for Oclober

vity established among the perple

ar.

established between black, white

Adolf.

gon.

Thadden. NDP

of Cuba. demonstraled what a free

Sinply put. thus means the sets-

and mulatto.

ehrer. will arrive in September

people can accomplish.

icrement uf 20 billion pounds of

The cause of Cuba must be

oversee aclivities and-to par-

They lound reliable friends in

sugar in 12 months. That kind of

come the cause not only uf Com-

ipate in the ralls in October.

the Soviet Unioil. other socialist

production could give more than 6

inunists but ut all democrals.

The West Berlin city adminis-

states. and many other countries.

pounds uf sugar to each of the 3

anti-imperialists and radicals..

tion: has not arrested: NDP

'Blockade will fail

billion humans on this earth.

The story of Cuba must become

imbers who were involved in

Socialism

in Cuba continues

The enthusiastic light for this

known to the millions of our land.

• desecrazion of a monument lo

developing.

goal grips the prople.

What this

The economic blockade must go.

Lims of fascist violence.

The anti-Cuba policy of U.S

means in terms of Cuba: is helping

This barbarity is the essence of

imperialism .now

includes

the

lo lus the foundation dur the must

U.S.

imperialist policy. The peo

apid progress

blockade. This pobcy. lou. will

rapid developinent of industry and

ple can and must compel the Nik-

fail.

agriculture.

which will be biased

on administration lo put an end

CARACAS

The Communist

Our delegation saw with their

on the latest scronatie textniques.

tu this criminally.

rty of Venezuela, which was

seal less than a vear ago, cel.

raled co August 8 its National

y. with metings throughout

3-count7.

The central rather-

f-was in Saracay. where the

conference of Communists

as Deld 31 gears ago.

October I. the weekly Tri-.

aa will become a daily:

10X001446

Why wait' til tomorrow

you can find out

•

today's Daily World

Special to the Daily World

HAVANA. Aug. 29 --A. US Communist Party delegation. leaded by national

chairman Henry Winston has returned here from the interior of the country where

it witnessed a tremendous mobilization in the drive to harvest 10 million tons of

sugar in a vear.

The

delegates

returned last

week from

Camagues..

one of

the main centers ul the sugar

industry.

Greeted by Cuban leaders

The 10 million-con goal is the

main economic last set by the

Cuban Communist Party and the

Resolutionary Government for

achievement by the sear ending

July 26.1970.

Carlier.

after their arrival on

Havana on Sunday, Aug. 10. the

delegation visiled other projects

in

the Isle if Pines ard the

provincies of Las Villas and Ca-

maguey.

Receiving the U.S. delegalion

un their arrival were Command

er Hamiro Valdes.

37, nember

of the

Political Bureau of the

Cuban C.P.: Carlos Rafael Ro

driguer. meinber of the secre

Lariat of the Central Committee

and Commander Jesus Mantane:

Continued as page li

Daily Wold 29 lugag

---

## Page 40

w.201

Delegation of CP

visiting Cuba

NEW YORK: Aur 12

ficial:

six-person, delegationa

the:

Communist:

headed bus

Pari USA!

Milional charnan

Henry

Winston is nomen Cuba

at, the -Invitation of thé Cuban:

Communist:

such delesatino since 1980à

•e are enthusiastic abrut the

delegation and frel ereat pride

in it and the reinforcement of

warm. cordal cooperation

be-

tween

the Cuhan Communist

Party and ours. James Jackson,

chairman of the International

• Department of"the Communist

Party. tild the Dailv World.

He recalled that Cuban Presi:

HENRY WINSTON

dent Fidel Castro himscli had

-invaterd

Winston in Cuba to re-

cially eccled by the natinnal

cuperate after the eye operation

committee and brings to Cuba

Winston

undersuront.in

prison

the warm, comradel grectings

that resulted in luss uf his eue.

st sur party and of the Amori.

sight. Castro otere to exchance

ran proplo. sho ipof normal

100

"fusanos"

term

"worins,

lnlematie..

peonemie and cul-

applird. so. Cubans. who

uura:

relation;

hetspen.

1't.

turned againse their oun coun-

curary one the tiret countre of

try in the serse e imperial-

indissm in the Western homi-

ismo for Mincion sblo in pri-

sono-".

569n.

capradel pelations

leteren

There have lone berg warm

mar party

inel the Cubare C'om-

Die the le e fini pre

muniss under the deider hin uf

ple und the people of 1he

Fided diasero will be stronarlien.

•lacksrin

The apportunis

ed by thas serles est descussions

erists for ie chante in alberi!

wheet sall contichule do a noces.

relations

the l'nitasi

wr: rompiagn dir der the bos-

•Slattes and Coha.

14018

ind: resense the prevent

60N6ST STATEMENT

inacontie polies at la dinier

tries terrard fiabe.

"The doleresting ball base con

nature of lames darcom, chur

117.317:

d'ante and wil!

"The Commune. lures dir.

chitato

19

the.

186'18

Palang ed Amereon eurnunists

1900-9 ph-r107l.

Ther will Pepens

hoaded bi Ilenis

Romanian CP congress ends

with call for socialist unity

das endi@@ Hom.ona: 800g 100.

muness pare: 1974981610199i19

suntine era lus 110018.00819.8.r

Malist malinns and in the donell

• 0.18

Cisurenu

16. 6.0

ro-plerdred tre

another lour bears its port! ser:

To:453-499798-01

Mall 10s dai lere chianteng.

tras.

ritile

Viet patriors 3

hit 137 targets

ned from pa

temptito outilank the Democratic

Republie of Vietnam and perimo

Dasitron alone ts western border

Wathetacap. counterattacked

Plurid the important air

Stuong Sous

Sa Ties south of: Muong

e the toro secrei ClA baves

em Thong and Long Thien held

CIA:

US Special, Forces: troops:

and

seral Thorartillery units Theor

etically. the ton

bases are. un-

der the control of the Royal Lan

General Vang Pao. Actualls: thev

are controlled from the Special

Forces headquarters in Udorn.

Thailand

Long Thien, in the mountains cin

the western edge of the stralegie

l'lan of Jars. is Special Forces

headquarters for laos. contain-

ing the "Green Beret" supply and

command center.

rieneral V'ang Pao. like the units

under Sorcial Forces commiard.

is of Mon nationality.

The charges hi laos Premier

Soutano

Thourna thit

**30.000

Sorte Vicinamese hare insaded

dires in solation of the 1962 agree-

ment en 9h0 noveralization il the

crunere. are aleeedle related to

thre dard that Sane Thong and Long

Thien aio threatene by Pather

Lan abrack. Il may tro predeied

Pha8 the closer the Pathel 1ao got

lo the CA "Tireen Beret" center.

the:

isder Sousanna T'hruma's

crips wall torome

smessanna lhoria's charges of

"neutrality"

the d's. lamborg of more than il!

Thir 81.5

real in lentrale:

"Tus aristieo pro.

Hallie Donaldson

memorial Aug. 24

SfATTII:. Au 12 - l inen

il dotarle dallural decorsolove.

1o 80 Pieterlent for Washine tion Miall

DAILY WORLD, Wed

Get Into the Spi

THE BI

Sunda

Arrow Fans

jour plesie

Helee io

191:3011

billi

WE NEED VOLUNTER

STO MAKE

WI MELO: Somere 0e food

saleoble Mems: Cool.

DO YOU MAVE A CANI

BASHUL JOIN THE DOR

ING,

BASEBALL VOLL

REY. KIRKPATRICK FOLI $

SOUL FOOD

PUERTO RICAN FOOD

Orlan end Ect an

LHICAGO

GUS

General S

THE RECENT WORLE

THE NEW UPSURGE OI

FRIDAY.

AUG. 22, 8 p.m.

First of a

50%

Donation: $1

arudenta: 50c

Support

THE DALLY ALI

$189

ENCIOSEO FIND.

---

## Page 41

SECRET

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

050-004-120

ME XI- 09202

USA

NIN 10036

P2

NEI ANUPUSLU MELOING VE

WESTERN HEMiSPHERE

LOMMUNISI LEAULAS IN MÄILU IN NUVENBER UR

R. 6012200609

HUCULBMZPUFGHESHAU-

FILE IN 201-

197

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

887.408

•SECRET

---

## Page 42

SECRET

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

- 050-004-124

SLX. A NUU ?

MEXI-09133

04 NUV 66

CIT USA

HAM - 10820

P 2

KES PRUSICIAN CUMFERENCE

OF COAMUMIST

PARTY LEADERS IN MEXICO.

UFGHEPHAGHLSHLO

R 6612130492

FILE IN 201-SC(eSS7

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

867

"SECRET

---

