104-10174-10032
peace SEE

‘py

i 4 Hay 1960
MEMRANDUM FORs Chief, Covert Action Staff

SUBJECT: Sdvard G. TICHBORN (P), PaD Contract agent

1. This memorandum is in reply to your request for background data
on ‘TICHDURY Lor use in your disousalcn with Chief, Politieal Action, Wi/s.

2, TIGHBURY was reoruited by Horace W. Davic in the fall of 1959 for
usa in the PaD politioe] edviser program, i.e. advising forafyn oontacta
of KUKaRK on political organisation end techniques, particularly as they
apply to elestion campaign.

S 5, TIOHWORN do on anortcan odtizen,(32)yearo old, he is a graduate of
Harvard Law School and has boon an atternéy, speataliaing in trial work in

2 Angel 949, He entered pulitigs in Los angeles the sane year.
Ho was alested(Yresident of the Los angoléy Young Desocrats, 1950 <5) ta .
1950 he wag Chairman of the Speakers Bureau far the James Roosevelt - Belen oO”
Gahagan Dovglaa)eampaign, In 1952 and gain in 1956 he"was a meuber of both
the(itinorities Comdttee and the Speakérs Bureau for adlal Stevenson's alan.
In addition he has partictpated in numerous loc:: campaigns. In 1958 he vas
the(Deroeratio oandidate (unsuccessful) for Se.rxtary of State dn California,
His prosent ectivittes include membership in the: atic State Central
Comuitted, the Host Committee for the Denoaratic National Convention, Board B
of Direstors of the Denceratia Minority Conference, and the Exsoutive Conmdttee

of the 63rd dssenbly Motrict.,

4. Yn Jawary of this year TICHBORM travelled to Cuba oa behalf of Wi
Division where he spent about two woeks assessing the political situation,
with exphanis on ascertaining the strengths end weaknesses of the na
Comamist groupe, and investigating the possibilities of a coalescence of
these groups into appolitioal organization, At briefing sessions prior to
Wa departure, TICHBORM demonatrated an inmodiate grasp of the type of missin
proposed-to hin,-scd upon hie return, revealod considerable insight into the

Cuban situation,

|

t



mee

5. Wi Division received two copios of the detriofing report in
February. Briefly, som of the operaticnal information end suggestima
offered by TICHICRE are as follows:

ae

od

‘Ge

ae

There ap;-rars to bo ttle chanos of a ooalitian of the

organised and,
to whos TICHKARN talked, CaSTRL is in no present danger of
losing the devotion of his followers

TICHBCRH believes that inducement of defections emg the
CASTRO followers would have mare offoct on CaSTRO than ony
other single astica wo might undortal;.

‘Thare 4s @ leng-stending schim between Pidel and Keoul

CaSTRG, which if exploited, could ba operationally advantageous.

Most inpartent, TICZSCRN enphastzed that CaSTRO xust not be
unierestimated by the U.5., nor written off eo another
Latin ameriesn revolutionary.

6, TICHEORN's file is available for roview in PAD. Mis trus nam is
forwarded under separate cover.

Orig &1-
le

Horace VW. Devis
Chief,
Politieal Action Diviatas

Addresseo
Subject file
Chrono

