# 104-10104-10088

## Page 1

104-10104-10088

CONFIDENTIAL:

06C 47-1017

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

- 31 May 1967

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Orlando Avls y Bosch

03

1.

Me.

Jor the WH Haitt Deal called en

25 May 1967 and stated that they had been advined by as asset

In New York that Rone Juare, Leon had been arrested by the

FBI in New York City on that date. A bunch warrant fer the

arrest o Loan had been laned by the Diatriet Court for the

Southern Dietrict of Floride alnce he failed to appear for nie

arralgnment in March 196%. He was Indieted along with

Rolando Masterrer for plotting an invasion of Haltl. Mr.

maid that they had no operational interest in Leon, but their sources

a not ge

had indicated Leon might be connidered a political asset la the post

Duvallier ers la Halt. Mr.

Dasiod my opinion as to

whether or not this possible lumm use of Leon might have an

affect on ths, charges being droppod agalnst him. I told

Pthat it seemed highly unlikely that the Judge or

the United Statea Attorney would consider dropping the charges

since boon had filled to appear before the court when no ordered.

?. I called Mr. Morris, Internal Security Divotos,

Departnent of Justice, the attorney handling both the Masferrer

and Bosch proescutions, and told him that Lenn had been arrested.

It was in s previous conversation with Mr. Morris that he told

me that the United States Attorney expected to obtain the Indletment

aginat Bouch on 31 May 1967. Mr. Morris said that both the

United States Attorney and the Department of Justles were

considering postponing the date of bringing the ladietment againat

Bosch because of the problems which had developed in Miami after

& Cuban refugee named Rivere had been arrested. The information

avnilable indieates that Orlando Bosch has been the leader of the

proteat demonotrations against Rivero's arrest. It would sherafore

seem prudent to delay the indictment rather than precipitate

greater demonstrations ln the Caban community of Miant.

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 2

CONFIDENTAL CA

was acquited i absold l be gre ta bored on Orla a sets

Dlotules Court, and it de therelore constdered nalikely that ang

Jury will convict Bonch of the current Arm, Control volution

A separalo problem which may Inflaance postpanament

of the indietment to the conting publicity generated by the New

Orlemns Dlotriel Attorney with his lavestigation of the anasalaation

of President Kennedy and ble continuing references to the Involvement

al Cabans both la New Orleans and Miamt in the consplracy.!

LS/ JOHN I. GREANEY

JOHN K CREANEY

Anstant Genoral. Coumeal

ees WH/Cuba

WH/Haiti

OGC:JKCibt

Diatzibution:

Original • Boach Subject Ftie.......

1 • Masferrer Subject Fle

1 - Garrison Subject Fiev

1 - JKG Signer

1 • Chrono

GONFIDENTAL

---

