104-10218-10044

eth

cbs

Bata tener oerancen een nent nen eee omen emnt ethan BSE

MATERLAL REVIEWED AT C1A HEADQUARTERS BY
ERS

a Bees HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ‘ox ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MEM

FILE ere ioe Ou: HOKE): TWZHa - CIWDSAY

INCLUSIVE DATES:

“CUSTODIAL UNI T/LOCATION:

ROOM:

DELETIONS, IF ANY:

DATE “DATE
RECEIVED {| RETURNED





anid ANTE

I

Ce AE es oe tM et

bo heeds coe pind oe Feb!



a vet wenn tntetmnnt

EVAR hake eamnetatstennes: enausearsestacanannta nearer ieeeranpminae ence

SS eee aan BP =

: a : 7 oe CRD- at af

cet : i a “ Son
anne — 8G ane

2.8 1380 4 CRD

~~ 616m" — goer coepieew Toe «0 sURASSI



i
f
i
i

PEE ROSE TS A Ae NF em

URQLASSIFICD



Se a ae ee

sebaeviazy

i —

OC _vnaassicieo OO uoe “0 comnamiat CO secest

BART Omen;

lacey ipl
Red tHe

TO Ot gegen, men mee
seme ae

aaa te Reon hin

Hn art flew
ce mh ‘

SECRET Couripearia rare weenie



4 Octoder 1966

Mr, John L, Hoke
5421 Waoats Koad
Washington, D.C, 20016

Dear Mr, Hoke:

Since recetpt of vour employment application operating
officials of the Ageney have made a careful acalysia of your
beckgroands experience against our present requirameats.
Unfortunate iy, /e cannot ot this hime utlltce the qealifications
whieh yus ha: » made available to es.

We approciste very mack your offer to work with a
regret that cur response could not be more favorable.

Stecorely, :

E. D. Echols ae
u Director of Persona)

op cer. ee jab . : E
file to ale/iractive



Be, gobs L. Hote.
$8 Engiteelic Drive
Pela Gaurch, Virgie

Bong fr. Star

Eiken your toterriey vita 6 mmsar of ay staff, opersting
CfPtatzse hove tees revieving your qerlificatio eat Secigrumd.

ftp Gx have ccenpiona: openings Watch ecll fur meerual esveriecco
ex? wtgua ecmbinstione of abilitize amd treining vite are aot
eershitie exuag uur carear offtceru emt te tece cance we foal
wtiamata 76 De apie te eTirect the (iterert of mon uso
epactaligné qualificetione meeved. Altaouth ve Neve
Uheligte oppurtimity fur your service win a, wo kao
nates your sume for coratéeretion iz the srent o retteble opening
eauis Sevidlog oud exalt etvise you tf thie emalé coeur.

Cows you for your iatereet to sur orgaatestion.

Sincerely,

B. B. Bebote
Director of Fervzsel



ndum

OTE,

Hen

i)

"ERROR UR riemeSi en tre

renee
emt ttnat


OMSL a sanreroaemenne cam apna atari meres eA -

tees



Shays
cercers)

reatioe Otise

‘eel ot Croep ¢
i process Esginecrin
cratent Service" ae

Higa ef nee

or dune Bright)

sop ett

iets

i
i

ace

Seite eb





poner sgitontht seats MN TEN OT LTT



AB SR ae han Bsr



RRS 2 WRT

fer ls enpha


AN hme

a

eadeste

Ay lie.

besere
Sie
Byntets

of Oreup
ad Peet
Goal Art

Pspeet
Ui aps
cousins.

Seri
ch th
re th

reg
cor

e1es
1

icant

Liczat engage? ia
cYanties end
pansibelity of the

(xcersions into the

Leyue design ef

aL ras
to cprrate

ties chated

conveutionnd craft.

q

a
sf
:



Bartdntt
ered equrjp ant

Piya Jeng

.olar

ly convert

tote rane 2% tees ae for LF

ints weetrieat ural, Pas been the severe

vathy Cperiins equinsemt tout ramen copparstively,

wjch rower, 16 ceder to operate efficiently,

arontental tot ot

tre arb ip geen trat an et
4s a central co ree of power, zeexn

warranted,

+f eyuapeent are now availauie that aace “uc

« agong tnese if an electric cater

vtest te snieal., tracts
eboing a geall bovt chat wer a paxizus of 14 03

volte onc. It har teen covculstes that a tarse ty
Le wilh provide sutfscsent

at ceely

ieee POU paned of silaeom sedan 2
rowan to cperate cece a eraft ~ aft poeer for gaay sther

ne eresuntered-en an extenzed sr: Ty

elecurica: neein 6s might
jeay from csaventyonal Sources of power.
ca eet pen

ee woule in

ty pumps, fr

faci. Tecerticn and trmenins:

reoaat egangaenty ett,

SGP propeved thet en offectie uenns of cindvcting on eaviren=

Auctat. tesk of aolar unersy ao u centre!

peter source, ecult te

eo river = ant a

e reretsad.
tt ba ne wet spavetty $f power woul
ae sootee ef pove:

sigeeh an wrped Cen

recprigs the

re
fiance a mealastic caraen “wees tf

aon’

cet mugenaten néealnay te Gf w erecific george, aovever,

sara rtancen 2 tre-ablbub gt Lane -propceal Levy reguited in the
ce ven of aa electrical ppernted “tout trat has teen tn
i “o cee toca in a Jumle Mivironeent, fer over a year = ane tar

sulted for the promred veeture, Lt ig of simple
- deni40, agaes efficient ure oF electrical arive =
wih be

Booptruzine, I: eas deniered an ac!

‘i



on Ree tes

vided by 4 UC ausere-tour Lettery =

pie 2obor waa 5

Pieidang from four to eight sourn mnsing sree, depencing upon

ihe wperatng erends waed.

fo provide for colar operation of tris craft, 1t tne teen deve
wl of solar celle, sufficions ts provide HO 47 10C
volts, 18 needed. sen a panel ( stout

nate

was power, Bb 12
twelve equare feet, of ts-efficiency colis; can easily vs.-
susportes by tne craft - ord will serve to charve twe twelve-volt
Blorane Latteries, tn enich all power decarde will pe onde,

t expected to opernte dering all daylirut roury =

will ce under cunctant charge oy the svlar

AS tre boat as

yet the tatlerie
Tunel - tne watta.e outmus of the solar yanel dues ast need to

be greater than suat reprerants an averise conguaption of power,

tho meer cutlets at varying

The croft woula ais: te provides ©
to provide ive the charging 4
slecen of elecir.cal €julrment carried of tee trip. In this

d potential of the bout batteries - tecked up

speraticn of other =~

veltagen,

manner, the rter
ty the aclar pasel - would rerve av a central source cf electric
Ine very real sense, the aclar powores

pa ercn s.ch @ $rit
boat curid (e cons: iered x g.urle power surely = yet @ vepply
: te a suurce of preer replonishaent..

Rot gery rarnicaily tau!

The location prepumd for ccndecsing a solar exped:ticn, 16 the
Th as “apeested fers.

country, vuriaas (o.ien Guiana).

resecus:
che curicaz Jungie + and ite watery

rv) = in reprece:
1s read:

jengie areat aver the sarku, ye

many tripe,

he inated ctatea,
surtoas 18 efficient, stable, ant enz-jr
trey wed

vowey

United —tate:

itty relatione with
u prOvAdiny peraiacicr &
culd te evunted uten for other
5 objectives,

Baxe ect a trip
Bet

furthering the tr

tee perscunel wy

trips aa eqeat fser yearr

teas PE.posad (and ©

meen eto



» @pout & zonth, durin, ¥

rombent, Wilt prie! tive, Lue teen cece: jl

inirbratave arean = each etuipyea with radie coscunication”
Je earth, City Uf Perexaritis

ketone te ant from

Jute etvlé ampiesent cast

the expedite on,

sical pbpective of tne crpeda tiem would ce the peret

te yy Bs

tereay to by chosen later | to tue .
n@adeaters cour the ore. rier, Cn tris t: vor: ous :

Fever espa: sacar ecala entered = from qeist euler

Fekhete Farids.

inate

8 tra

veuis tace |

@ Vern ar eeather cond: tions,

erele srve te anfle

& the ery

tion's progress.
itar cupgertes tha

btu

e21i3.n connie of tee crafts =
powered tert, ard a motive I udetoat,

Rationar {rea tre ¢

the eviar

doled vy incal

Ine cerend toat wouls

erse te
iw te.tet | eet not vtuerw

eqeapaert ena ertici

cart ct the inga

wo. dar towered taat. Alva

Besvapeny iG Lhe expuas tion Woabs Gn stkier

We arc tet rn Che PENtty Pande ervertyes

tecras

ef the felererpeditr ne 4.

vic Camp ear, w

Ponti. rae, bachae, ang An

the brit wesld be
sade sech ac to

are .awine .

che teenbces. SiyMrta

Sevuid be remlired in tee revs! ting aate
eVere. ob she perforssnest af al. raeeas of emapeent = eat
their we

frein

age db pantie ever

Vn tae Sela,

ee sept

i
i
:



£
t
4
j
i
j
i
i
:
Hf
Hy

“brie re

rar at petetnal cear > to detererse actual need, aed a:

ritrity se het anqula be carried on tripe wrere

ne auel se considered,

Aceh bide eety

ate Saccensfui atertyplichweat of the venture would recsie tn

tre Dosevenly cenevatc: .

peat teendity of tne electrical conversion of solar

u seaful, conseant, widespread acurce of rower
te T.rziy satatizened, Adaptatilyty to ather thar

etbc.sed applicatacns eculd ales be apparent ae tide éeatere, — -

choca. Tpucanced’ dropecraft coula us developed free 7

pf wiya.s cf the trap log: @ cratt that would

Mf savigaeiue tropical watemays, erthout requirieg

y >on

uit carry several sen = atineles

ShedeJeC Aves that shi include ovigicetiag creadeasts from

ease oe

vr rcagiseratie periods of etondime ty (wares.

Fe posritley

hosuch @ poser suzrty.

Ce Sidesrend ree puiticn of the fownetoeearte caravilities

of veler energy © turcugn aprrogriate, ep: rosed publication of
Tts = Would resuit in a valuarie rtiguisticn of inearect

im tre freiz 5f eolar power, and an increased inaeotry-wite 7
ther uvelop she silicon cell ts tipher levels

incentive to fo

cf efficiency, © sie lowerine preduetica ccrta.

quared ic carry owk the proposed eapedition =

« wOuds cossist ofan inyecitios
19% 20 the 1»

“Ey anne

ate whe wu:

Aer of the

& as

elf = and vith the tecraeai and re: orticg taces,

BIC REEL y Me Bet¥e Lom

ne cevernt nevicaais tc nile th

CM aEE dR ebere

led to ansume the tapas as criediticn

rate eacer, are = recper

+ Sotin Hoke,

i Bote nave been stutyrned in ceriner for

Aderai.r tine et,ioring the -

2 ine

fens

eit


= ens ine asters

arvclving a seMloT Ob pe
oa acwagaaled with eondvclica “euen tripe. Cae
ed the previces leaf of Starf of the air Force, sese

2 ripe

trie

2 gate = ans ram party.
nas 1b June af Ibel, after rervins
wrth tue (arted tater Gperaciens

cba Uffiter, ant Jeeh.ve

Te nen

ke Serartes sur:

Sagcitm te surmnaa tit)

atvisor to

micatte e:

So infomaatin Seriwe cosaen Fact
eles An the Junie te
rcwk ine .0ee

a2 Guverza

ven.ures, Sry voKe &.

Lhe mete &

ier

er aere conpale. 5 diiestrsea article fora,

Fagasane. Ig a2 atten, home prepered o

perert

alerens’ Looks.

{the .unnles

wae rere,

OP SPATATIG ontiby Ene = ag sister <
Serinar, yo the Agricelturad

ece, Posns has

Fe ufewtt, Corre itiy

VBAIWAOT TB awe te

Intorsn
Bee edea radi proersaiay, 2
POVtN Ce LES = any the sem covericncer

fy e0Fe wate dak

who vurimanty nterior

na forip. cae

vse deeert

ake wpa te rett are faccetar lft Tewang as tre ure,
oterete, remag sf Maintain egurraent wou:

ung) eat tare

aatel wit yung le penetr
Ine atica, 3
wath ant: eels of cre

Ser have fe

Yireenrasy ete

a
their ecSiqned resensicr ities,

in

ham creneeta 2 a2

earOt cha. Venturer.

P othe color etred:

btne



i

imectaie need:

8.The Ant wewond

sng for teat currcees, © of the conten

# erecetereenta,

she star panes - 1f connected frew the ¢ round up, complete
ried oilieon cells (5s) - woula cost in the
fread of BIE,Oe = SA.CCC. Thae cost can be

arcing cells can ce mustered roto geitatle aseezbly in a
1 "Panel geliverin, tse arprepriate voltages and vattage,

wly-
red, af

naire Bett

the devercpenent end tecting

ravel agcocbated wits
panel fer the s:lar teat is estimated at
Blywic. Fatlicatice costs of @ final report are sstieated et

Geyuc, The total cost rs estimated at about 440,000,

vtuteside

AL tne prevent tise, several o:her parties are ceing asked to

nese include the Interaational Zecti fier

sponsor tris ves ure.
Corperata‘e (isc), the calver creek Frecasion Corporatian (.cé

- LWT 1s ome of the leasire cenofacturers of silicok celle, aac °
the iead.ng cam.facturere of electric boat astors =
QBs Beaer Of ine Be fF uted of the prototype eiectric “wat,
currently being undergone ts detersine tue

ey will ;lay in the proscsed venture. riucaples of the
have beew csarulted on the seture ef a
al

i
i
i
H
j
'
a
;

< 78 one

Yatronai Geograrri. <
1" "Senne venture, enu they have exprersed interent ia rte potest!
society ma azine. Apperced te tais proposal
22 Lttueen interested

for treatuent ic
+ Ae w fale cf recent active eorroepent
parties, @ treaci:en of anticipated expedition costs, ands |

tacky. ocac iilustrated saterial is

eG oa br. Howe
wrenever needed, snowing pertineat trip aspects.

ayassacie,

1s

+ teat the wccosplismment of tre cijectivee of ta
nefit to ite

ae fereits of direct

In crfer 10 cerry tut these cijectives.

Tercertfully solicrted,

. J. Jona nome
irtoter ty



rrert with the Cental intelhgence Agency.

SECRECY AGRESMENT

fC neny MEE
ill

1 Lan aware of the facr thot the Central Intelligence Agency
by reascr + the sensitive nature cf iti work must observe very strict
tecurty measures

2. | agree nor to inform enyone that Iam being considered for
9 pas.t.on in the Certral intelligence Agency uniess specificaity a-thor-
wed ty a represersatwe of ine Central Inteliigerce Agency It is
ungersocd that t 6 cermiss:bie for me to indicore thot | have oppired
for employment with me Cent eligence Agency in connechon
with any Feders! expicyment oppication that} may execute.

3. | egree ror to disclose the recruiting or processing pri
cedures of the Centrat Intelligence Agency.

4 Sugree ret to name or discuss ony incisnduals with whom 1
have toised int the course of my application for employment with the
Centro! Intelligence Agency

§. 1 further understand thet 4 during the course of any xose-
quent imestigation 4 1s discovered that | have cevea'ed wehout
authorization my apaiication for empiaymert ath the Centra intelli
gence Agency or cthenwise wolated this agreement such acres may
constitute grounds fr dasqualificaten tor or dismissal. from employ-

anita

