# 104-10186-10050

## Page 1

104-10186-10050

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

MATIONKREPORT

• Do Not Reproduce

INFORMATION REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

ain materia contens talarmation aleung the katen Delete the bald files withie the mening of the intonade lome the

18. 08C dore 193 und 14, too taraminoo de Perpiatino al

pagea lo ang manbee lo an unusborind poros la protibitid sy des

SECRET

NO FOR DISSEM

COUNTRY

SUBJECT

Cula De mistrar Republic

Rifael Francisco TAVERAS Rosario

• REPORT NO. CS CI 316/01174-65

DATE DISTR 16 Maïch 1965

NO. PAGES 2

REFERENCES

DATE OF

INFO.

PLACE &

DATE ACO.

SOURCE:

1964

Washington, D.C.

1964

FIELD REPORT NO.

TMIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS YENTATIVE

A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Itelligerer Service

Unil April 1964.

Headquariors Comment:

Mr lot wing report is one cl a series containing personally

aformatir - provided by the source ard includes supplemental

irfermala, from the records of this Agency.

1: 1s requested that the addressers take no acidor con any or the

jaividals mentioned in the persorally reports without first

circlag with this Agency.

1. Source idertified a photograph of Rafiel Francaser TAVERAS

Rosario as bring a Dominican ard a member of the pre-Cisio

Agrope im Poltica Catorce de Jurio (APCJ).

2. As a member of the APCI, TAVERAS was originally sere

in Cuba to secure a scholarship in the Union of Soviet Socialist

Repibli: s (USSR).

Hower+s, source judges that whes this

s:he!ership did rot marrialize, TAVERAS wes put trin lo guerri?

warfare training progrom instead.) Source bearis it TAVERAS

was sill in Cuba at the time he left."

3

• Headqua: ters Comment

1. Rifel Frir isco ('FaIR") TAVERAS Rosario, who was borg in

about 1938,

was elected secretary of publicity and propagards on

the APCJ Central Executive Commites in December 1962.

held tha: title when he left the Dominican Republic on 13 September

1963 for Mexico on a Spanish ship, en route to the sovie:

SECRET

NO FORY DISSEM

STATE

REP CINCLAN TRAY

HAVY

CYNCSO AR

INsa

1 110

I oce BR

78KS

(Moto; frold distribution indurered by 1o #0)

5

3

1

INFORMATION REPORT INFORMATION REPORT

20-d

VIC

L CUREA

_31E

ACNO A LMLECLADRL

CLiLLA

TH CPRO JIH 2 DR

CLICCINHLI. NASHA

MICAVE

RID/AN

21-10

WAISDOM

TOTALE

WIC il), WE 1(1), C14, RID 1, WH 4(1)

SPAISON

DIR. 18622

# Projeci(AMMUG, 1)

CSC -316/01174-62

CONDIRATING! I

H 2 DEBLS:LBem

5/98

---

