# 104-10179-10151

## Page 1

104-10179-10151

3.

aAR.

FUR: *73

03

R157156

note -iled

in hare now,

reples. you

How 20119

cindecline

- portion)

Call Payne

03

703

refore

5/TN

RETURNTO UN

Background Use

only

Do Not Reproduce

TO

DC/Tr:J/ CA

WILL CHECK GLASSI

IN TOP AND BOTTOM

SNIFIED" ENG ECOSFIDESTIAL: • SECRET

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY:

OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP

CG 1908

ACTION

APPROVAL

COMMENT

CORCOARENG

DIRECT REPLY

PREPARE REPLY

RECOMMENDATION

Remarke John

here,

at lone last.

on his ta ko sith hey evel

2A130 a1a

pOr

i fron tunes:

•As I menticiod

be in tom nest wack 1 16 103) and al

question him no to tro tatue at all this

sort ca tringe

Do you have a prectfice (other

then the Draper circulation plan?

---

## Page 2

1d-0d0

VIATT WITH MANJIZ RAY AND CARLOS DIACO IN PUERTO NICO

DURING THE FIRST VEER OF JEN, 1S

The perpois of thie vials ves to diacurs the poostbilley.

OS A Cuban InPoratIon bullotin la lino uti Elo montion mode

Done taeke earlier Dy javier PaRos, TaLe val aleO en opportunse

to discuss othar nocivitin upon mich va might possibly collaborate.

I spoke with lay for ino or three bours folloning a dey Lous

Asooneston with Diago. Wen I deecribed for Ray the profeet of the

Caban Information bulletin as Diso and I conceived of the ha vas

enthuntastie. It should be recalled that I had noved mey fre

Pason's carlier conception of tha bulletin and had com to tha

conelusion that such a bulletin would be nose unfil and infie

11 1e vre based on unterial contes fron Inside Cuba. la ochar

sordo, Me mould not miah marely so duplicate bulletine such 0o de

"Juta asont Gula" valch aro prepared la citio and urleten by extles

asth their ou particular slans. No save a nodol for ese lied of

based on materialo propared entirely toolde lpala.. Both Dingo and

Hay secepted enthuntantteally this concoption of the Dulletta aid

both asmured ne chat a regular flou of Inforuntion Crun

Immide Cab

could ho mintained. Diego apperently has a fir porcoi

Ante

rant lou

who can send him natertal throat diplenato travoling out ol

May hee a nuch more artene in netrart througt matel do prosure

a regular flon of Informacion. Mas no agread on the niture of the

bullets.

The nast questson uno that of aponsorshipe fuse

4.00 no

Peal that the Congrena should Do direcely Involund lu rich an effort,

The tro poosioslition mn diacuated mere the group erul the negato.

IRITICA In Venomala and the school to Costa Rica valch Pratne

0F177

lil 338

---

## Page 3

democratso pollical codres, Rey man vary ponstive bist the

schoos and thought that te would de a very good sponce.. le

apole antinessically about the mck being done chare and feit

thas this mold be che nost culcable ploca for tbo properation o

the ballets, I told him chat me would nove boad along chane

linos and noo 1l ve coule interest the school in thie proponieton.

Ho, In cura, proadzed blo sull aupport for the proface and weren

to mako mallable the infomatson at his disposal on a realer

Incher Mumon at the Costa Riean school. I have sent him a deeniled

outline of sou ve conceive of the bulletin, and have anted hia to

diaous 16 vich Bana Flores during Buora Floren'e stay at the

school in July. Idaally, I vould think that demone fron the sehool

would want to moet with Carlon Dingo and Faute Maso who Le

presently la Venomola, These tre young men would be the most

1skoly prople to produce the kind ol ballotin described alone. Ie

might furthormore Do tootal to not with Bay sinue he moald te

producing not of the information sed in the bulletta.

su the begiantos. The question of there the bulletia sbourd be

Locatod was Loft open. But Verndenc

Man locat in

SE La SeiSCO CisY under EDe dirACElOR Of VIEtON AlDO Misbe bo

wooful way of proceodla3.. I contiou to loal chat is would best

be located at sha school stuell nhere she production of much é

ballotin could be liated in to the regular curricula os the mobool.

Bonna Vlores u1l1 be elvesseles the projose in Coolu Riea end will

then pass by farte lico ta erdar to discuse. the

with Ray, Sy darly septealer, me abould know obero ve

on chie

profest.

"sen regard to a inore soneral drocuraton vich Revo

could Iiko to point out a Labor of the thingo unsch he dostlanad

to mi,

3a ebo 81808 placo, be voo very vana la bie prates es

66338

---

## Page 4

or feruleto de Pronsa stial he liada very enatul, Furtharora, De

offered his halp ln the distribution el cha Driper dool end ol

CUADERNOR 10 Cuba, For shie purpore, hi suggested chat us Band

COpLaS Of CUADERNOS, a baradrad por sonth, ragularly to logello

Claneros would act under the instrucelons of Ray in the dlatributes

Tucc-? In Guba 108 GUDERNOR dod other sater tale wich to vould prostices.

"Ray also urged that me do ubarones poresala la the Dataicen

Repablic, He spoke of sãe many sooda of the latellectualo there,

and of the role which che Congresa could play. He has agreed to

send forward a llat of sans and adresses of people uho should be

rocalving our materials and wich shou va should bo la contect.

Wich regard to his on piano, he spoke of his tutention

Lo BEarE a ló-pago nosupapos da the sear future, Parthernore, ha

•do making active elforto lo otare up a radio stalton. Me bases?

bie activities on the balled that an uprising sa Cuba la possible

11 an alternative de offered to Fidel on tha one hand, and the Nioni

extle group os tho othar. My general impurenados of lay vas a food

Vono. He afruck an as a poderate, latellisent nas, alitedo giron

to lynceria and slogar-nongeriag, Mia best quality sensa to be

his akild an an organinor. He did not airthe ne as somone wich

850at loadershlo potential, al losat la ters of mans appealo la

did poen to be a practioal and personally sellorganizad follo

vita whos one eas vori on a ayalentile basis. He o

Ado Els with so alaboratias bla convlaction esos an upriatre 1e

(Ce. My) → cuba 10 possible provided a (shard) alterativo lo lount Me

other poise unish lo acrossad una bla esdoess at che lack •

support for blo sorement. 1 el sol da a paristoe to arceca hou

mach of thes ho sald do ascurate, dus on the benta of thore lea

Doure of couversation viid di, 1 would cend to balleve moat ol

whas he told me.

La GLosLiA, I abould sey shas nose al our tell rei of e

Limited dad procEdial nature dealins primarily MieS eDe Dullessa

16335

---

## Page 5

14-00000

wich respect to the dlatribution of our metertal. & did

Alocuss with hin brtally the ideo of ruming a sysposion on

CUADINOS assessing the present state of the Cuban revolution,

1en probeble development, end the ateps utich muns do taken...

Pos the preparation of a nou progran for Cuba's developront.

Be personally belloved that thie would be a craful thing for

CUALERIOS to undertako, end at no tina seemed anxious to limit

the contributore to much a sympostum to those people uto vere

members of bie on particular group. Througbout our talke.

I found bim free of those tendenoles toward exclusiveness

obich one encounters no often in eriled proups, and on every

quentlon wooches lt concerne the bulletin os the symposu

LE CUADERIOS, oF our possible vork 1o the Doslaican Republio,

he agreed that objectivity van the only baste upon which me

cen workand that the open

turn approact neo best. I foured that

he was an ensy men to set along with and one sho meltes an.

Impression of slucerity, forthrightoose, determinails, and

woanching much nore intangible which I would call parsonal

oleanness. I Intond to look in, wire id working lurther wich

him tu the future.

---

