# 104-10226-10037

## Page 1

104-10226-10037.

ORIG :

UNIT :

. 16..

DATE :

NH/4/PA-PROP

4935

8 August 1901

TO

...

FROM:

DIRECTOR

CONF:

BELL 10

INFO,: DOP, COP, ADOP/A, WH 5, 5/'C 2

TO

INFO

• CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SB CRBT

19-150-26°

ROUTING

To

CITE DIA

9 AuG 61 22. 442

-StO CEN

DEFERRED

ROUTING

CUT84213

05177

PRIORITY HAVE

JNZIP

REPS: A. I'GA-1687*

B. HAVB 7358 (IN 46766) 114

• I. AGRIB CO VIEW REZ & THAT KUCAGE ACTIVITIES AMOLADE/VERY MAROTHAL

VALIE®

2. RE THEIR REQUEST FOR ADDICIQUAL FUNDS TO DEVELOP SAICOHES AB

COMMANDO GROUP, FIRST HE IN NO POSITION SUFPORT THIS TYPE OPS AT PRESSIPT

AND SECOND ME DO NOT FEEL HAICHES HAS SUIT ICIKIT POLBICIAL HARRANT SUCH

SUPPORT. OUR FRELING NOH IS THAT CHLY UR PACTION WITH PH PORKITIAL, IB

ALREADY RECEIVING SUPPORI THROUGH AMHAZES.

3. IN VIEW ABOVE HRS WOULD LIKE TREI INATE FINACIAL ASSISTANCE

ANGLADS AFTER AUGUST UNLESS YOU ABLE DEVELOP THIS AS REAL KUFUSE ASSETB.

REQUEST YOUR VISHS SOONEST RE KUTUES POTENTIAL ANGIAD 2, 3 AND & WITH

RECON ANDATIONS SALARY FOR BACH. ALSO WOULD LIKE CONSIDER MAKIRO TERMTHAI

PAINEIPT TO WIDOW AMGLAD-1 INSTEAD ON CONTINUIRO NATHLY SUASIDE JHRU ANGLADS.

ADVISE AMOUNT SEX RECSIVING AND YOUR VIEWS BEST WAY HANDIS THIS MATTER.

(CARTONE)

BILLASINO ORDICHA

COORDINATIMO OLICE

BEGRET

09-16

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITED.

Copy No.

---

## Page 2

14-00000

ORIG

UNT

EAT

DATE .

- TO

FROM, DIRECTOR

CONG

INFO,

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

P BCRBT

ROUTING

- PAITE THO

10

INFO

CITE DIR

2.3-9: 01

sta:

909601

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

1.215

05177

H, PIS CLARITY ANGLAD USE REMAININO $4000 OF $10, 000 ADVANCE WEICH

CO INSTRUCTED TURM BE UEZ TO DEFRAY KUPERBIES COMINO MONTAS IN LIBU MONTHLY

SUBSIDY TLIY HAD HEE RECHIVIRG PER RET A.

END OF MESSAGE

WE Comment:

*Report on first contact with ANGlADe by Kopman, case

officer

replacing Hubbell.

#Said AMGLADa had accounted for expenditure of $6000 advanced

to then by WAVE, (of wbich "the remaining $4000 was to be used

to defray expenses in llen of the $1525 monthly subaldy they

had been receiving" according to Ref A and that WAVE planned

continue $1500 aid during Aug, pince group abovs Limited

evidence PI potential and pending receipt Has commants on Ral A.

AtI.

maters

COOPOIMATINO ORDICE

BECAST

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

OR08C08

Copy No.

---

