# 104-10183-10393

## Page 1

104-10183-10393

RETURNTO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Nat Reproduce

3 March 1965

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: AWHIP-I Meeting, Jew York City, 19 February 1965

Meeting/Time/Place and Purpose: This meeting was

, held in the offices of AWHIP-I from 1350 to 1610 hours.

Purpose of the meeting was to attempt to satisfy requirements

• levied by Nestör. Sanchez, #H/SA/SO, on events which took

place during AWHIP-l's most recent sojourn in Europe (January-

February 1965) in company with AMLASH-1.

Meeting was also

used to determine AlWHIP-l's willingness to participate in the

'discord program" using UNaNAFU-l9 as

the unwitting recipient

of certain rumors, the

tetails, of which are covered in

subsequent paragraphs.

It might be noted for the record that this meeting was

scheduled for the morning of 18 February, but due to

AWHIP-I missing the scheduled flight from Miami, the meeting

was postponed until the above time.

Details of the Neeting

The following information on the various topics as

Indicated concern basically those requirements which have

been intended for, and levied on, ASLASH-I.

However, due to

the fact that ANTHIP-I was together in Europe with AMLASH-l,

ANWHIP I was debriefed on the requirements on the outside.

chance that he might have some complimentary information on them.

• Cuban Diplomat in

ANYHIP-I was unable to give any additional information on

Das'he had not met the man in Europe and does

having met him in Havana.

(ANNHIP-I stated that AMLASH-1

claimed that he (ANHIP-I) bad in fact met|

of years ago in Havana, but A\WHIP says he truly does not

remember the man.)

He stated that any additional information

would havesto come from either ANLASH-1 or ANLASH-3.

In approaching[

pfor cooperation, AWWHIP strongly

suggested that it would be best to useoANLASH-3 for the

initial contact.

ANNHIP stated that

knew AMLASH-3 well

and that he was a trusted representative (and therefore anti-

Castro) of ANLASH-1

told we were looking, into

06

and also into QUIOPS-1, Attache Cuban Embassy

02

15÷2

11 VICE 10

---

## Page 2

14-00000

"2-

Jiscussing QUHOPS' desire to cooperate, AJHIP

that (QUIOPS would do what he could to help but that

and exchange ern laoto the teed states along wah hansele.

ANNHIP-I stated that (QUHOPS'

plan in brief was to accept

the guard duty on Sunday thus making probably only himself

and the wife of code clerk present in the embassy.

thanked AWWHIP for his information and suggestions and

stated that they would be conveyed to the appropriate parties

concerned.

(ANLASH-L'S cousin") ASNHIP-1

stated that ne had no information onl

Nestor Sanchez has an operational interest with regard to bis

(Sanchez') pending PCS to Caracas --

Venezuela.

"Venezuelan" Returning from Moscow.

Regarding the

Venezuelan who has reportedly to have just come from Moscow

and returning to Cuba, AJWHIP-l stated that he had no

information to contribute about the man.

He did say, however,

that one time duringilhis recent trip to the Cuban Embassy

Paris talking with CUNSNAFU-19, the Ambassador had interrupted

their conversation in order to talk to two men (about 30-35

years old).

ANWHIP-1 met them briefly and was told by one

of them that they were from Oriente Province.

AJWHIP-I

stated that he could tell immediately by their accents

that they were not Cuban.

In order to confirm this he

asked them where in Oriente

they were from because one of the

Cuban

officials in Paris was from Oriente and always wanted

to chat with any people from Oriente who passed through Paris.

After a brief stumbling exercise, groping for a name of a

city in Oriente,

the "Cuban"

confessed that they were not

Cubans but Venezuelans.

ANWHIP did not have suffident time

to learn more about them..The two Venezuelans spent about

thirty minutes talking with CUNSNAFU-19 while AJSHIP was there.

He did not know how much longer previous to this thirty

minutes that the Venezuelans had been in the Embassy or to whom

else they talked.

AMSHIP-1 suggested that (UNSNAFU-9 might

be able to obtain the names of the two Venezuelans in question.

e. UNSNAFU-19's Nembership in

the "Gaslight Club".

a support service for a Paris StationJoperation to get

OZCUNSNAFU-19 membership in the Gaslight Club where it would be

attempted to run a highly desirable

IMILASHl stated that he had been unable

busy schedule, to get the latter down to the Gaslight Club

and enrolled as a member.

AWWHIP stated, however. that he

ould do the job just as well by taking out

gift membership

OLNSSAFU-1912througi

the Gaslight Club in Yew York City.

and sending USSNAFU-19's membership card and key to him in

He encouraged AWHIP-I to

do this and to keep us

advised of his progress.

---

## Page 3

cuban Air Force Comandante DICLOIS.

dieserains

•DICTOIS who had Tejedly arrived in Paris tron Algerla durin

the time that. San

that he tid noty

Ne and or dia te táve any taro ittion

a Comandente with that nane or a name that sounded liken hat

He said that he hae heard sonething about a Comradante

strange nane

sussested that AMISH I might be able to identity

Security man mich Cle Guerans

assed 11 tie. had

reportedly one

no accospanied

African trip, and probably also the one

his security forces/ Ailunip sald that the name did perchates

with bim and he had no other infornation to give.

again:

suggested that AMLASH-l might be able to help.: One-thing more

AN-HIP

said was that he did not think that any of Che's security

men were named Bernis, and he thought this was not a correct i:

name.

He did say, however, that while he was in Parts there had

been

two securtty

types there who were guarding two or three

dark green trunks about. the size of foot lockers and four or

five suitcases.

NIHIP said that they both had pistols: „one,a

Soriet machine pistol and the other a 32 calibre AMule does pot

remember the exact date that they left Paris for Madrid but hes

remembers that the 'flight. left at 1:50 in the afternoon and

took place about two weeks ago. (ca. 5 February)." -AHIP

says thats

• (UA)S.NAFU-9 knows

both

of

these men and could be contacted. for their

names and a better description.

h.

Carlos Franqui.

AWHIP-I had no additional

information on Franqui except

to say that he

knew he was not

happy.

He also believed that ANLASH-1 had additional information

on Franqui.

concerning

1.

B & L Locomotives.

with regard to the requirements

security

measures on

the shipment of locomotives for

Cuba, AWHIP said that he had no additional information to.

1735%

contribute.

A'HIP also stated&that he had obtained no additional

nformation fron

o, and the use of. these loconotives.

the (engineer concerned with the shipment,

ANWHIP stated that he

AS HIP

talks too much and that;

would be best to assist in the

operation.

(Comment: See Ronis for further edification of the subject.) SlaTe

5/po

---

## Page 4

AMLASH-1's Accommodation Address Arrangements

ANNHIP-l stated that he had reviered accommodation addresses

ANKHIP-2 in the event

instructions to

of the receipt of letters

reviewed accommodation address with ANNHIP-l, see below.)

For the record

AbLASH-l will address his letters to. AwHIp-?

either in care of his business address in Rome which 1s:

Cavaliere Hilton

Jewelry Shop

Monte Mario

Roma

or to ANWHiP-2's business address in Geneva (which incidentally

is identical with his home address, as AJWHIP-2 operates in

Geneva from his apartment): Rue Crespin, Genera, Switzerland.

(It should be noted

that AMWHIP-2 intends to open a proper

office in Geneva in the near future.

particular reason for changing the accommodation address in

Geneva.)

AMVHIP-I stated that he had given the undersigned's

postoffice box in Washington (William A. Thompson, P.O.

Box 7224 Apex Station,

kashington, D.C. to AMVHIP-2,

that this would expedite our receipt of letters from ANLASH-1.

ANNHIP-l was told that his concern

the letters was certainly appreciated, but that for security

sake, dt was much better

that they be

to. AMWHIP's address in Jew York City, preferably,

his business address.

ANWHIP

AWHIP-? that he'should handle the letters he received from

lavana as little as

possible and put them in cover envelopes

and send them as quickly as possible to ANNHlP-l in New York

City.

In this connection it remains the problem of obtaining

these letters on a expeditious basis when ANWHIp-l is, for

example, out of town for a prolonged

suggested that William Thompson's accommodation business

in Washington be

given to ANHIP's father so that he may

forward ANWHIP-2's letters to Washington without undue delay.

(This is an excellert example of a breakdown in compartmentation

in Cuban

operations.)

Parts Embassy Personnel. According to a telephone

call on 18 February

ANLASH-T an Paris, ANWHIP

that AMLASH-1 had

said that UNSNAFt-8 and, perhaps. UNSNAFU-

would be out of jobs in the ned

*future in accordance with

the present economy drive by the Cubans.

AMLASH stated that

UNSNAFU-& most certainly would be ousted, while @ASNAFU-9's

case was more uncertain.

4/RV

---

## Page 5

20-4 (PARD 9067,

paddedscon

Bad don come

Ver payuente Cited in

ret

vere apparenyly very anglou

seitt

ted

Pin Ret:

Ictualty AwHiP

stated that

to

amount

of

the payrents would be

the

P7000 and the leguded fatigues

or tie te

he had been asked. y

da do 510 009 ortage inter cont

Mits discuss on had been carried on by Indire

vich Pepin Sanchez:

Wrother-in-law of Cello Sam

a hi

Jost

Isleslas

Lope

good friend of AsHIP-l and for

mer

tated to the atove in flavana

Eabassywparis.x/tite/$100,000 was a partio, the

To 39 6.000

mentioned aboves

he did not

norn to denise silver, and as not sues

value of the worker lens offered for sale." Aulp I state

that this sale was

to be executed on behalf of Castro

personally and did not necessarily reilect the overall:

financial picture of the Cuban government.

that AMLASH-I had told him that such an action was typical

of Castro,

who in many Instances, conducted business

arrangements of his

own, without

regard or without consultation,

with the members of his government normally involved in Cuban

national finances. ANNHIP) stated that UNSHAFU-I9 aiso hadin

2 AWHIP! Stated that he belleved that

this money was neéded for the downpayment on two factorles

which had been purchased by the Cubans in Great Britaln.:

He also stated that he believed these factories were for

the processing of agricultural products of some type.

A180,

concerning the silver, according

to AJWHIP-1,

that 30% had

been reduced to bullion and that the rest consisted of

"worked"

silver articles antiques, ant treasures, jewelry, eter

ANNHIP stated that this entire offering of silver

antiques

etc.."

had eventually been sold on the spot in Havana for cash to

an unknown person.of Turkish/Italian background. AJAIP

tried to find out the identity of

the person but neither

• Z CUNSNAFU-19,

In person, nor Iglesias, by phone, would t

amule. offered to write

identity of the buyer.

ask Iglesias.for the name; but ve cautloned against 1t

as showing undue interest in the matter. AMHIP I was

i told

that if he ever saw Iglesias in person and could safely ask

bim he should do so

together with any details he. could

obtain about the

It was related to Cuban

financial problems.

Tra sachip seated tra nas return to

---

## Page 6

the

catwas

trunk had been

pa turned:

Brou

over

sto

paris.

GeneraTon the 1880%

ALASH -1 declined ai

Havana via Madr to

in Made

Fe das 6o

down

heat!

AHiD speculated itha

drid

by Arnold hopsicue? camps

how Artis recetved a

Mog that Unro 1973

call:

110

Itation, due to his desire to Peltra to

KOOP MO 5

the items, sald that the

worknanship and quality)-

1...

UNIS Morale and. Finances. "e then broached the

tople of Aucst lukudekand present frame of mind ten our

refusal to giveshta

S10,000-Chat Chat he requested for the Epin

ases..

Annip I stated that he thought AMLASH-I was not over y

disturbed by this, but that

in general he was sonewhat upset by

the fact that he had even entered into negotiations wich AMBIDDY-1

objecting to his "political mentality".

It night be noted, that

ANKHIP-I also stated his reservations about AMBIDDi-:

From

this,

we derived the feeling that AMLASH-l and AWHIP-l both

had

strong but unspecified reservations about the motivation and

morality

Of ANBIDDY-1, ALASH sald that due to this reservation

Of AMLASH-l'&, and due to the relative newness of the contacter

AMLASH-I was extrenely reluctant to take any money from AMBIDDY-1

which, of course, in the end he did not.

AULASH felt that he had beeb pushed by the Americans

Americans ined that

into a

basically unwanted relationship with AMBIDDY-l•

ANWHIP-1 stated

that be, as well

as AULASH. were still baffled at the American

reluctance to deal

across: the board on all matters with

AWLASH-1.

He stated that AMLASHl had received certain items

fron' AMBIDDY 1: that he was not able to obtaiy from the Americans.

AwwH(P-1 made it a point to state that ASLASH-I noted Immediately

and pointedly that the items provided to him by ABIDDY-l were

not homemade nor apparently one-of-kind itens. (the inference here

being quite clearly conveyed to the undersigned was that these

items obviously came

from commercial sources.)

The Subject of the Funds Requested by ANLASH. AWWHIP

stated

that these were absolutely necessary for MILASHl to keep

people

of his choice in particular jobs where they could be of

---

## Page 7

08

crat

CAth

HE cited

7 com naante

of the

tO AMLASH-I for obvious reasons.)

ANsHIP-I stated that this

subsidy money permitted these people to remain In place by

providing an addition to their incomes, who otherwise due to

the high cost of living

today. Isther, would be compelled

for

peerage:

underst ched th

plannen elsewhere. The

asted

or

not AilASH-1 got any

Mint he needed.

BTP

sald,

*Jes; 1 save de to

*phea trim how wich and:

hie

yes tated.

After a lit

ecion and a direct questior

stated that be had

900

stated that AMASH-L did

dict

have the moneyevetland

that the money bula brewen

Ma probabty the weetends

0 February) In Parts DAALP.

ANWHIP-1 stated that

ANHIP-2 hád become Involved in the -transaction because he-

had to appeal to him for help in raising the money in a'fairly

confidential manner.

Arrangements to give AMLASH-1 money.

during his stay in Madrid had fallen through, AJNHIP had!

learned, this the reason: for ASWHIP-2's being forced to go

to Paris in order to give it to him this weekend.

AAWHIP1

also stated that ANLASH-I had asked Jose Iglestas in Havana

for some 3,000 pesos.

Iglesias was not able to raise the sum

at the time requested.

Whether or not he is attempting to do:

so now, or has succeeded in doing so during ALASH-I's absence,

is not

known at this time.

-It should be noted that during :32

discussions concerning the ANBIDDY/AMLASH relationship, ANNHIP

stated

that ANBIDDY had told AMLASH of at least some portion of

his connections with the Americans. AWHIP-1 stated that he had

sat in on

the discussions during which time. AMBIDDY purportedly

made this statement.

AWWHIP also stated,

as he had done fa

previous meetings,

that neither he or ANLASIl could understand

way the Americans did not make further use of ANLASH-3 and

AILASH-2.

He also folt that there were many bits and pleces:

of the whole picture that were not tied into a neat bundle and

utilized to their full extent by the Americans.

The undersigned

at no time admitted that he was aware of any AUBIDDY/American

relationship as alluded to by ANVHIP-1.

For. the record, AHIP-I again stressed the fact that ::

he felt that he could produce more.

Information and better serve

KUBARK Interests if he had a case officer who knew all aspects

of the AMLASH complex and the cast of other Cuban characters in

presumably other European-based case officers Swith whom he

has dealt) was very helpful and that he enjoyed their relatlonship.:

but that there was an obvious lack of depth of knowledge of all

aspects of an ALASH-ANNHIP operation

and also of those principally.

---

## Page 8

involving only ANHIP.

He felt that he could be more effective

•ITh

continuous

suldenco and direction during his European

nise leplied that the case officers vere

understandably bisy

withrtes miny local problems and Cou

ine is Possibly was desirable to AwhilPt

find nine., delicately subnitted thet

i be was ville

to tnko the time for the operations and a

it rensible, he prefers to dead withione

case officer on all aspects of hia operational activit

ASILASH-2.

Accordins to Allpayche and ALASH-1 havel

established an open code for Signalling his desire for exfiltration.

or to inform Alip-l'wheu the date of his Attempt will bes

Eat Indicate extrat on prom day restors a lorette

respectively.

AMBIDDY-I presumably has the details for execution

once he is informed of thie keyword by AIWHIP-1.

The Attempt 1s

to be noted by any mention of the name SINON, together with a date..

which is IT.

02

P.

Deception Ploy (Rumór plant with LiENAFU-19) •

• In response to

the request for his

opinion on this subject

after it had been outlined as agreed upon at Headquarters,

AMWHIP"] stated

that he thought that he could carry this offs

•oZwithout (UNSNAFU-19 being suspicious.

He stated that this type

of information would have 'to cone forth at the right moment in

a natural manner, and during a rather lengthy personal meeting.

He felt that to

do this by. telephone or letter would be totally

out

of keeping with his normal relationship with CASXAFU-19

and that

it should not be done in that manner. In response to

the suggestion, 'however, he said that it could be done if hià""

stopping

off in

Paris to see UUNSNAFU-19 took place as a part of

a normal business trip to Europe

- He also stated that he felt

he had to have something upgs which to peg the story:

agreed with the feasiblilly of the suggestion of putting him in

touch with a reputable businessman in New York, who has good

connections

Government circles in Washington and whom he

conceivably could have known for

some time as a result of a

normal business relationship.

AMWHIP-1 agreed to returnsto

Europe in two or three weeks especially to perform this task.

He was in agreement with the undersigned's idea that zin order:

to play it as safely as possible, this meeting with CASNAFU-19:

should not take place at least until after the 24th of February.

the expected return date of ANLASH-1 to Havana. Both. for this

---

## Page 9

reason and for AHIP-s own business matters, we will program

bis return

to Europe for sometine during the first or second

weeks of March 1965•

ASTHIP-I was told that arrangements would be

made for hin

to know about, or actually to meet, the ostensible

"source of this information in New York sometime during the last

week of February or the first week of March. He was told also

to keep

In touch with the undersigned in the event of any

news received from Europe concerning AMLASH-l or any of the

cast of characters in this memorandu.

"".

The meeting terminated at 1610 hours and there were

no incidences of a security nature to be reported.

WH/C

/FI/TC

---

