# 104-10066-10066

## Page 1

104-10066-10066

A."

ino - nional Ono C*

File: Assassinatios.

actmon Выши

BIC #17-4381

October 7, 1977

MEMORANDUM FOR: Anthony A. Lapham

FROM

: A. R. Cinquegrana

Office of General Counsel

SUBJECT

BLUEBIRD/ARTICHOKE Soft File Review - "Kelly" -

Dimitrov, D.A.

1. I have been reviewing summary sheets prepared by the Office of

Security concerning several hundred soft files on individuals associated,.

or considered for association, in some way with the Agency's BLUEBIRD/

ARTICHOKE activities. In the course of that review I came upon the follow-

ing case which I discussed with Dick Lansdale and which we agreed should

be brought to your attention for your information and whatever action you

may deem appropriate.

2. As is indicated in the attached copy of the soft file summary and

the 27 January 1952 memorandum upon which it is based, D. A. Dimitrov,

designated "Kelly, " is a Bulgarian expatriate who appears to have been

imprisoned in Greece some time in 1950 and 1951 on false pretenses because

the Agency feared he would accept an offer from French Intelligence. After

six months in custody, he was flown to Panama where he was misrepresented

as a psychopath and confined in a U.S. Military Hospital for several months.

The official security file shows he was then removed from the hospital and

held by the Agency at Fort Clayton in Panama for three years. He was then

returned to Greece and ultimately allowed to enter the U.S. as a refugee.

It appears from the attached copy of a 7 February 1952 memorandum that

the "Artichoke approach," i.e., the use of drugs to reverse his hostility

toward the U.S. and U.S. intelligence agencies, was never consummated.

3. This man has had several contacts with the Agency since coming

to the U.S. In 1961 an Assistant to the DCI was contacted by a representative

of Parade magazine who had been informed by Dimitrov of his confinement

by the Agency. The Office of Security responded to the effect that this man

was disreputable, unreliable, and full of wild stories about CIA. As you

will note from the attached transcript of an 8 September interview on Good

Morning America, Mr. Dimitrov (now General Dimitrov and known as General

Donald A. Donaldson) apparently is alive and alleging that he knows who

ordered the assassination of President Kennedy •

Nonbashale - Ileral Doo Galy

07198

---

## Page 2

14-00000

totalia - Internal lee P-1y

4. Based solely upon the soft file summary, and prior to reviewing

the official security file from which I extracted the additional details, it

appeared to me that the nature of the Agency's treatment of Dimitrov might

be something which should be brought to the attention of appropriate

officials both within and outside the Agency. The fact that he is still

active and is making allegations connected with the Kennedy assassination

may add yet another dimension to this story.

Attachment

Administrated - Interal Us Oily

2

---

## Page 3

14-00000

I. Soft File Summary

1. Title of File: Kelly

2. Brief Biographic Data: Kelly's true name is

DIMITROV, a 29-year-old Bulgarian who was head of

a small political party based in Greece and

ostensibly working for Bulgarian independence.

3.

001 ti-d Por Busarian independence.

Nature of Relationship/Interest: It was learned

that French Intelligence Service was attempting

to bribe KELLY and make him a double agent and

Kelly appeared to be interested in the French offers.

Accordingly, a plan was made to have KELLY believe

that he was going to be assassinated and for protec-

tion he was placed in custody of the Greek police

who then put him in prison.

KELLY was held in the

prison for six months until the Greek authorities

decided that KELLY was was a nuisance and they told

our people to take him back. He was then flown to

Panama where; through arrangement, he was placed in

a U. S. military hospital as a psychopathic patient.

According to the 25 January 1952 memorandum, KELLY

had been in the hospital for several months

and the

hospital authorities want him out since he is causing

problems. He is not a psychopathic personality.

Because

of his confinement in a Greek prison and his

stay in a military hospital, KELLY became very hostile

toward the United States and our intelligence opera-

tions in particular.

OPC was considering an "ARTICHOKE" approach to KELLY

to see if it would be possible to reorient KELLY

favorably toward us. However, OPC advised on

2 February 195 that some opposition had arisen in

the top level of OPC to the handling of the KELLY

case in the manner that had been proposed. • Since

this opposition had arisen, nothing would be done

to the KELLY case.

4. Period of Relationship: No dates supplied

5.. Indications of Drug Experimentation: None found

6. Co-opice Interest: . Not indicated

•= 7

sosailaroo: (30531110) D5- Bobert Ecko.

---

## Page 4

14-00000

Il.

Office of Security File Summary - DIMITROV, Dimitre

Adamov (lyle 0. Kelly) (QKSTAIR) (SHAM/BGCONVOY)

#46165

Short Summary of Agency Interest/Use:

the file was opened in October 1950, when DIMITROV

was of operational interest to the Agency while

employed for Radio Athens in Greece.

Previously,

DIMITROV had fled from Bulgaria in July 1947. As

of October 1951, DIMITROV was in a hospital in

south America, apparently under Agency.

auspices.

In 1956 DIMITROV was brought to the United States,

apparently after returning to Athens from South

America, and the Agency made no further operational

use of DIMITROV: In June 1960 DIMITROV [under case

#33259--Dimiter DIMITROFF ("Diko")] had contact

with the Contact Division outlining his background,

claiming financial difficulties, and requesting the

Agency back his plans for covert activity against

Bulgaria.

The Agency apparently took no action in

this regard.

During this contact DIMITROV claimed

that circa 1951 he was held in a hospital/cell in

Panama City-

2. Background Investigations: None

3. Confirmation of ARTICHOKE/ BLUEBIRD/MKULTRA Interest:

4. Project Associates: None

---

## Page 5

14-00000

Office Memoraidum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

DATE: 25 Jaruary 1952

TO

FROM

SUBJECT:

FIlo

Morse Allen

Kelly Case

On Friday, 25 Janary 1952, the writer was called to tha office

of MI. Bannernan for the purpose of a conference with one H°.

EE/OPC, concerning the instant case.

plained in substance the Kelly case as follows:

Kell], (Whose real name is Diritrov), is a 29-year-old Bulgarian and

was the head of a small political party based in Greece and ostersivaly

working for Bulgarian Independence. Kelly was described by

as being joung, ambitious, bright (elamentary collega edneation) , a

sort of a "nan on-a horse" type bit a typical Balkan politiciar.

cording to Prichatt, our people discovered that French Intelligence

Service We attempting to bribe Kelly and make him a double agent aad

Kelly was looking with favor won the french offers. Accordingla

plot was rigzed in which Kelly was told he was going to ba sumi

and as a "protaction", he was placed in custody of tha Grees Police

wno threw kelly into a Greek prison.

son for siz months until the Greek authorities decided that K9lly vas

a nuisance and they told our people to take him back. Since our

people were unable to dispose of Kelly in Greace, they flew him to

Panana where, through arrangement, he was placed in a U.S. Military

Hospital as a psychopathic patient. Kelly now has been in the U.s.

military hospital for several months and the hospital authorities zon

want to get bin out since he is causing considerable trouble, bothering

other patients, ote.

Kelly 19 not a psychopathic parsonality.

explained that they can dispose of Kelly by. the simple

process of sending him to a Iriend o1 his in caracas, Venezuela, and

as far as they are concerned, that type of disposal is perfectly ok.

However, bacase of his confisement in a Greek prison and his stay in

a military hospital, kelly has become very hostile toward the United

States and our intelligence operations in particular. Hence, 02C 1s

-considering an "Artichoke" approach to Kelly to see if it would ba

possible to re-orient Kelly favorably toward is. This operation, which

will necessarily involve the use of drags is being considered by OPE

with a possibllity that Dr. Ecke and like Gladych will carry out the

operation presumably at the military hospital in Panamas. Also in-

volved in this would be a Bulgarian interpreter who is a corsultant

to this Agency since neither Beke ror Gladych speak Bulgarlan..

Mr. Bannarman pointed out to

that this type of operation

could only be carried out with the authorization of Security and that,

under no circunstances whatsoever, could axyone but an authorized M.D.

administer drugs to any subject of this Agency of any type. Banneran

pointed out that there was a strong possibility that the military

---

## Page 6

14-00000

this

authorites would not permit their hospital to be used for/sypo of work

Jong as 30-60.

operation were carried os, Security would have to be cognizant of it,

would hayy to be coordinated into the organisabien and would possibly

take over. and run the operation themselyes since this type of work

is one sa which Security handles

this goer.

"It was agreed between

Bannernas, and the writer that a

conference would be laid on Monday afternoon when OPC representatives

and the Bulgarian interprater return from Boston and their tale with

Mi's Gladych. At which time, the angles would be explored and a d19

patch

Iarys would be forsardad to our peopls in Panana directing. them to

Iird out whether the Amy would perit such an operation abd whether

the Army would allow the Agency to haye the usa of the necessary rocha,

medical facilitias, ete. as would be reguired for this type of operation.

At this time, it was also to be datermined whether tha disposal of kelly To

Venesuala could in fact be laid on-

Comment:

This particular operation was mentioned in general terms to the

writer by Mr. Waltar Driscoll approdmataly thirty days ago on an in

' formal. basis but no significant details were given at this tine.

While the technique that Ecke and Gladych are considaring for use

In this cass is not known to the writer, the writer believes the approach

w1]] be made through the standard narço-hypnosis technigua. Re conditioning

and re orienting an Individual in such a matter, in tha opinion at-the

writer, cannot be accomplished easily and will require a great deal al

time and the & fact that an interpreter is necessary in the case com

plicates it considerably more. It is also believed that with our present i

knowledge, we would have no absolute guarantee that the subject in this

case would maintain a positive friendly attitude toward us even though

there is apparantly a successful response to the treatment. The writer

did not suggest to

by a series of electro shocks, but merely indicated that amnesias undar

drug treatments were not certals:

MORSE ALLION

---

## Page 7

14-00000

Ofice Memora. JUm • UNITED STAT S COVERNMENT

DATE: 7 Februasy 1952

TO

FROM :

SUBJECT:

File

Morse Allen

Kelly Case

On Wednesday, 30 January 1952, at 9:30 AM, the writer called

Hr I

Irelative the Kelly case.

00 min

stated that the 0Fe

and Interpreter had made a trip to Boston and had seen Gladyci-

stated that Gladych and the Interpreter had reached complete

accord on the handling of the Kelly situation.

I than stacad

that he was trying to arrange that the Kelly case could be lined up

completely befora he set up conferences with I & SO relative the trip

to Panama:

pronised to call the writer at the end of the

weeke

called the writer

relative the Kelly case.

nebray 1952e at 12035 da a3at I DPC at tos top larate

some opposition had arisen to the handling of the lelly case in the

mander that had ben proposed.

stated that since this opposition

of the higher ups had arisen, nothing would be done relative the kelly

stated that he would call immediately upon any new

developments axong these lines.

The writer informed

that

I & SO would be glad to consider the matter and would wait until it

was brought up again and would await his call relative any new de-

velopments.

MORSE ALLEN

---

