# 104-10179-10085

## Page 1

104-10179-10085

RETURNTO CIA

FIELD INFORMATION REPORT

•Background Use Only

nei bo al faroduce

COUNTY Sile

REPORT NOME

13673

SUBRE Clo prede bere de omose

DATE DE REPORTO Vorembor 29%9

cubari Govorent."

NO. Or PACES AvO

•REFERENCES

DATE OF 1559

INFO.

Chi le, Satlago

PLACE & Ó November 1959

DATE ACQ.

SOURCE EYAILATIONS ARE DEFINITIVE.

APPRAISAI OF CONTENT 1S TENTATIVE. • NOTE- FOREGOING EXPLANATION

Person with connoctions in BCLA (B); Irmaturopean In clone touch with ecLA

SOURCE: asfairo (P). Appraisal uf Contenti 3o

1o

One de the most invortant roasons for the freguent violts of staff mombors of the

15 biononde Migston SET Latin Amorica (kEla) to Cuku und tho three visitero!

2.

directa of ioy ALViNK. He then worked in the koononic Dovelopuont DiD

Pon

194, 2057 under the diroction of Jose Antonio MAruBE, and nore recentiy under

hi?1d in tio trainire irogram. Boti rubignod from bila in 195%g supporta to

Jeia Fidei altio's underground acrosiont:

Howevor, after sone montha Bold

rottirini lo santiago iore ho found that his post in schA had boonsivenato

Bioter economiato

Altor rany vooka'of adninistrutivo anneuver log HUMAlyrtnelly

lourd a place for ham as one of the peranont collaboratore of the trattingstrogren

Other rossong for the interest whinh sCLA takes in tho dovelopmenteor tho Cuben

ocono: untorithe CAsTiw rogine 1o che politionl and ideolostoel rglasty mich

existS batreon:

tho now rocino in Cuba and e numbor of toLA poole

Loanon o

Dovelorant Di loson and the tre nire program. wie porsoie

economista to

Masa laboratory or an or oriner

ontand ci

ablo to pay for a loe of thoir tripo

and Dit

salono:

Cubaa.

oturnoto suit

the sirà os lilala adulsory krouf officity annigned to Cuua androc

Gio fo: lonim councristas

"Thonas

and Carlos MATUS,

77.700

Pronta

Sb Cuca

Mre2202119

Malesiat

---

## Page 2

To was assigned La Gula tes

of 2959 bocause of the good resulte he achieved thore and the nood for him to

superviso a statistical investigation on the problems of "opulation, 1t8 strue

ture by pecuation and profession, and land and agricultural statisties."

vi clate

Carlos MATST MATUS Joined-thu BOnosie DEVOlOoDt Vision 21 14 68 1 9900

-mItant on 2 March 1959

For a tine to as: isted Manuel willo,

# the deput

chial of the division.

Hovosal: to Guba on 7 1as 1959 and Mill probably ronata

thore unst? the orid of 1259

Jaguo choretole, Choachol in a Chilean exfort In ARetoulture end A permanent

orplore of tho Corporacion de fonunto (COirO) sale was an ECt trained 1n 1955.

No Left for Buba In Napenbar 19591

Julos Do Kookes De Rock 18 a Belgian and la chief of the Transportation Bootio

cai Belie

•At Kilo He left for Cuba ín July 2959 to prepare & comprehanaive report on

transportation, similar to tie onos he did recently for Argontina and Colombin.

A 1y60 ha 18 to go to Marico ad nork on textoan problems or tranaporte

Carion AULYANAzA QUINTA has boun director os the ladustrial Dovelopment

Division of acla since Sartasber 1959.

Ho recastly handod in hio resignation

fron ¿cly in order lLo join the Nacional Pinanciora de Mexigo, his native country.

unile on homo leave in Mextoo he sado a alág trip to Cuba from & June to 3 July

1952.

While there he sorved as an advisar an an industrial development study.

and aspocially on the textile industry and 1to produotivity@ problon in untai

• 1s an export. Hia nosent sission to Cuba 19 fron= Novonoer 30 29. Jecember=

Yat which tine he is lo sturt an extonsivo industriad study of the kind he

rojared la 1957-1959 for Per.

In addition to writing the complote outling

study, QINTANA has to put it into oporation, supervise 1to progress, a

ave Ito contimation to the local Lan of coonomists.

His noet Important

to toach the Cubans hor to use modor nellode of investigation and progre

dovilos Cuba's textile incustry, WUliTANd sudsestod that Cube should son

Cor as

21210:7 3 1s noge marted te clone01, a

195L on ludopendatit sourco roported that Jacqien Carachl Cahit, holder

Identity Card No, 1773545, vas born in dactlago on 26 March 1906. 'He in

dosorabed as an ariolzural ongineur. due CS-3/11ul, 178

---

## Page 3

Chate

consultant saidans

er 1952 boonuse of the cood resulte he schloved there und che need ranht o

•uponrico a statiotiont inventication on the problems of popilation to struc

Mustan on 3 terna 1959

Win i Go division,

des Mens to buDa no 1 tax 1959 sal 1612 probella comte

Jules De Locker De hook 18 a Bolgianand 1e Chiof of the Transportation'Scotio

L' Bolo He left for Cuba in Julr 1959 8o propare a compreconsive roport one

transportation, similar to the caes he did rocently for argentin and Colombia.

$ 1200 to 18 to 50 to Marioo and vork on Merton Froblems of tranavorEe dAS

Carlor

RUIRTAMIn CISTAll bas bocu direotor or the Industrial Darelcent

DIViniOn Os DULA 81100 September 1959s he receatly handod in his resizuation:

rom 121a in orderlio join the Nagional Finandiora de Mexloo, his native ovuntry.

vin 11

On hOMO IRUTO in MAXiOO iR INdE ADIO EID tO CUbA ITOR 8 June to 3: July

thile there he servad as an adriser on an fudustrial develogment study e

sund

ospuotally on the tertilo industry and ite produotivity probles in walah

le an oxport. Hua prosent manlon ia tude 1e fron LAerraber to 20 Decerta

59 at which time ho is to start an exteusive industrial stude of the kind ho

parad In 1957-1959 for Peru.: In addition to writing the cosploto outltau

atuds, QuINTANd has to put 1t into operatica, euporvine 1to progresa, a

ave lin ontinuation to the local team of oconomats. His rost important.

uBo modern nethod a lovestigation, mu free

develop Cubale textilo

Industry, QuINTANd sussested that Gibs ahould oon

NO-OLA, A Moxican

Vistorist,

13: 229005

MalL Corient:

Sorenk

autont and recher of the Pazar

How Scitizen.

desaribod do an

Nortcultural racianar

lee C5-3/110,128.

---

