# 104-10326-10043

## Page 1

104-10326-10043

SECRET

(MHENO: 96-5536596

/

/

SENSIND:

PAGE :

SEA/PAMSI/A

INFO: C/ORMS,

DC/EA,

MDS&,

ODPD,

*FILE, C/EA, EA/XO. (3/P.):

[96 5536596/

CASO

EA/LGL,

LIMITO,

I PAGE

001)

TOT: 272220Z

SEP 96

DIRECTOR 960961

SECRET

STAFF

TO:

IMMEDIATE

(272220Z DIRECTOR 960961)

FROM:] (LIMIT EA/PAMSI/A INFO EA/IGL, CHIEF/EA, DC/EA

SLUGS:

WINTEL

'SUBJECT:

DEMARCHE TO USG REGARDING US LEGISLATION ON

BECLASSIFICATION

REF:

NONE

TEXT:

1. ACTION REQUIRED: PLEASE FAX BY COB 2 OCTA COPY OF THE

TO THE USG REGARDING LEGISLATION ON THE

DECLASSIFICATION OF DOCUMENTS. ADDITIONALLY, WE WOULD APPRECIATE L

RECOLLECTION OF

REACTION TO THE US LEGISLATION

AS WELL.

THE<JOHN>F. <KENNEDY>REVIEW BOARD< (JFK>BOARD) ESTABLISHED

*BY THE PRESIDENT TO DECLASSIFY ALL DOCUMENTS RELATING TO THE<JOHN>

*F. <KENNEDY ASSASSINATION>HAS COME ACROSS TWO

I DOCUMENTS

(AND FOUR CIA DOCUMENTS) WHICH THEY WOULD LIKE TO DECLASSIFY WHICH

REVEAL THE EXISTENCE OF

RELATIONSHIP

THE REVIEW BOARD HAS BROAD AUTHORITY TO DECLASSIFY DOCUMENTS

*RELATED TO THE<JEK>COLLECTION REGARDLESS OF THEIR COUNTRY OF

OREG ON THAT THS BOARD HAS REE SUE O HAS COME DOCUMEN

ATTENTION THAT. THE BOARD HAS REVIEWED THE TWO,

> DOCUMENTS)

AND THE FOUR CIA DOCUMENTS AND DEEMED THEM APPROPRIATE FOR/

RELEASE... GIVEN THE OBVIOUS SENSITIVITY OF OUR

RELATIONSHIP

OGC IN COORDINATION. WITH EA/LL AND

A/PAMSI, IS PREPARING A MEMO TO THE BOARD REQUESTING THEY NO

ELEASE THE FIRST TWO DOCUMENTS BECAUSE THE DOCUMENTS ARE TH

PROPERTY OF

GOVERNMENT. INSTEAD WE ARE WILLING TO

PROVIDE SUMMARIES OF THESE DOCUMENTS OMITTING ANY MENTION OF THEIR

ORIGIN OR OF THE EXISTENCE OF A RELATIONSHIPL

THE AGENCY DOCUMENTS WHICH MAKE REFERENCE TO

LRELATIONSHIP WOULD BE REDÄCTED TO TAKE OUI ALLJ

REFERENCES

IN OUR EFFORT TO PRESENT A SOLID CASE TO THE<JEK>BOARD,

THE MEMO INCLUDES A STRONG ARGUMENT THAT EVEN APPROACHING THE

JON THE ISSUE OF DECLASSIFICATION OF AL

DOCUMENT WILL STRAIN OUR RELATIONSHIP WITH THEM. OUR ARGUMENT

SECRET

1

(SECRET

(FRP:

(STAFE

EADORECORD,

---

## Page 2

13-00000

SECRET

MHENO: 96-5536596

SENSIND :)

WILL ENUMERATE THE THE UNFAVORABLE REACTION THE

HAD TO RECENT DISCLOSURES AND AGENCY REQUESTS FOR PERMISSION TO

DISCLOSE INFORMATION PASSED TO USL

EXAMPLES ,WE. INTEND TO CITE INCLUDE THE DUTY TO WARN ISSUE WHERE

WERE ADAMANT ABOUT NOT GIVING PERMISSION IC

DISCLOSE THEIR INFORMATION BECAUSE

ABOUT THE BOOK PUBLISHED BY A FORMER AGENCY

EMPLOYEE: THAT ALLUDES TOL

THE RECENT (DEMARCHE/ EXPRESSING CONCERN THAT A

FORMER

AGENCY OFFICER ALLEGEDLY DISCLOSED CLASSIFIED

INFORMATION (AN ALLEGATION THE DDCI ASSURED

WOULD

_BE THOROUGHLY INVESTIGATED) / AND THE DEMARCHE)

RAISING CONCERNS ABOUT OUR U.S.

DECLASSIFICATION LEGISLATION AND WHETHER THE LEGISLATION PROVIDES

ADEQUATE GUARANTEES ABOUT NOT DISCLOSING INFORMATION. PASSED TO US

WITHOUT EXPRESS AUTHORIZATION. FROM SUCH

[ WE WILL ALSO MAKE REFERENCE TO A RECENT

APPROACH

PASKING FOR OUR OKAY IN THEIR

DECLASSIFYING SOME OF OUR DOCUMENTS, AND OUR STRONGLY -WORDED

RESPONSE DENYING PERMISSION AND ARGUING THAT SUCH DISCLOSURE WOULD

BE A BREACH OF TRUST.

IN ORDER TO BOLSTER OUR POSITION WITH THE<JEK>BOARD,

REQUEST STATION OBTAIN A HARD COPY OF THE

DEMARCHE) ON

THE DECLASSIFICATION LEGISLATION THAT CAN BE ATTACHED TO THE MEMO.

WE BELIEVE THAT SUCH HARD COPY EVIDENCE

BOLSTER OUR ARGUMENT SIGNIFICANTLY.

WE ARE UNABLE TO LOCATE THE

ACTUAL, TEXT OF THIS (DEMARCHE) IN HOS.

5.

THE BOTTOM LINE HERE IS THAT WE DO NOT WANT EVEN TO

APPROACH

I ABOUT DECLASSIFYING. THE AFOREMENTIONED

DOCUMENTS.

WE HOPE OUR

MEMO CONVINCES THE BOARD THAT, IN LIEU OF

RELEASING THE DOCUMENTS,

SUMMARIES THAT OMIT ALL REFERENCE

WILL SUFFICE.

.6.

FYI: OUR FALLBACK POSITION IF THE BOARD TURNS DOWN THE

CONCEPT OF SUMMARIES, IS TO MAKE CLEAR THAT WE CANNOT RELEASE THE

DOCUMENT,

EVEN IN REDACTED FORM, WITHOUT

PERMISSION; FURTHER,

THAT IF WE SEEK AND ARE DENIED PERMISSION AND

THE BOARD NONETHELESS PROCEEDS WITH THE DECLASSIFICATION, IT WILL

HAVE A TREMENDOUS NEGATIVE IMPACT ON OUR RELATIONSHIP WITH THE

IN SUM, OUR GOING- IN POSITION IS WE WANT TO

AVOID RAISING THE SPECTER

THAT THE AGENCY MAY

HAVE TROUBLE PROTECTING THEIR SECRETS.

IF THE BOARD TURNS DOWN

OUR INITIAL PROPOSAL AND INSISTS WE SEEKL

, PERMISSION TO

DECLASSIFY, WE WILL DO SO: IN SUCH AN EVENT. OUR LECAL: PEOPLE

BELIEVE A STRONGLY-WORDED DOCUMENT FROM THEL

DENTESTON

- WOULD PROBABLY PERSUADE THE BOARD NOT TO RELEASE THE

DOCUMENT.

WE WILL KEEP YOU ADVISED ON HOW THIS. IS

PROGRESSING AND WOULD APPRECIATE ANY FURTHER GRIST FOR THE MILL AS

WE CRAFT OUR MEMO TO THE BOARD AS WELL AS THE TEXT OF THE

DEMARCHE ON DECLASSIFICATION LEGISLATION.

Z. 5 FILE:

005-002-004. CL BY

715410, CL REASON: 1.5(C))

DECILON: X1, DRV FROM:

HUM 2---8445

(CABLETYPE: GECO STAFF 1.0.2.>

(REINO: DORELS01005250515

ORIG:

EA/ PAMSI/A.

39998); (COORD: EA/IGL

REL: C/EA/ PAMSI/

SECRET

PAGE:

2

---

## Page 3

13-00000

MHENO: 96-5536596

END OF MESSAGE

SECRET

(SENS IND

PAGE :

SECRET

SECRET

---

