# 104-10422-10145

## Page 1

1104-10422-10145]

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

11 SECRET

ROUTING

TO

3 DIRECTOR

2

3

5

161

FROM & MEXICO CITY

ACTION, CAWHY.

(WH NOTIFIED AND COPY SLOTTED AT: 1320, 5 DEE 63 LMED

NFO a DEI, D/DCI, DDP, C/C1, C/C1/S1, VR

SECRET 951731Z

IN 7427.34

IMMEDIATE DIR CITE MEXI 7256

TRAYEL PROSAA

A TRIST

5DE 1963

"RYBAT GPFLOOR

PIPS

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW

RES DIR 36976 #

CONDUCTED ON 24 MAY 1976

Do PETER NO MOODHEAD ARRIVED,

50,200

IMPDET OL BY O122 CE

• LIST 3X DCOS AND GOT

THROUGH

CUSTOMS WITH NO PROBLEM.

20

AFTER CAREFUL STUDY WITH LEGAL ATTACHE HAVE DECIDED HOLD

INTERROGATION AT APARIMENT NO. 30 CALLE MERIDA 1660 WHICH WAS

USED BY KUCLUS PERSONNEL FOR AESENERATE LO PO

THIS

COMPLETELY BACKSTOPPED BY BEING RENTED FOR "VISITING. AMERICANS".

NO FUTURE PLAN TO USE APARTMENT BY STATION. APARTMENT BUILDING HAS

NO WATCHMAN. NO ADJOINING APARTMENIS OR BUILDINGS. MESSRS CLARK

ANDERSOV AND JOE GARCIA OF LEGAL ATTACHE".

STUDIED APARTMENT ON

MIGHT OF 4 DECEMBER AND APPROVES OF USE.

4O PLAN IS TO HAVE ANDERSON AND GARCIA PICK UP ALVARADO AND

BRING HIM TO APARTMENT.

MEXICAN POLICE WILL ACCOMPANY TO APARTYENT

BUT WILL NOT REPEẠI NOT ENTER. BUILDING. ANDERSON ALONE WILL

INTERPRET FOR MOODHEAD.

5. VILL HAVE

INTERROGATION.

OR TO MEXICANS.

for FOIA Review on

MAY

1976

IN A BEDROOM TO MONITOR AND RECORD

WILL MOT BE BLOWN TO ANDERSON, CARCIA

SECRET

REPRODUCTION. BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

201289248

GROUPT

Excluded bean outomati

dowagroding

d-ts

Copy No.

Document Number

---

## Page 2

13-00000

74273

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

IN.

PAGE?

6o PLAN

IS TO HAVE INTERROSATION BEGIN AT 1405 HRS 5 DEC CHEXICO

CITY TINES, ADJOURN OVERVISHT AND CONTINUE MORNING OF 6 DECEMBEr.

70 PLAN SEND COPY OF TAPES BY WOODHEAD IF POSSISLE.

SECRET

C/S Comment: * Requested confirmation that

and passed through customs

arrived at Mexico City

---

