# 104-10315-10011

## Page 1

104-10315-10011

DISPATCH

TO .

• Chief of Station, Fivene

VIA: Chief, ll Divladon

FROM

CLASSIFICATION

SEBRET

SAT

Catele Far last Divladon

SUBJECT

CANE TOO

Proposed Operation to have Chinese Communit

Suspected of Ammaination Atte

CHION REQUIRED

DISPAICH SUMBER AND NOT

HXHH-35

HEADOUARTERS FIRE NO

DATE

16-1260

RE:

"4) 3"

MARKED FOR INDEXING

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

INDEXING CAN BE JUDGED

BY QUALIFIED HO. DISE ONLY

REP: HAVA S06e, dated 25 June 1960

1o. The proposal submitted in the reference is Interesting and worth

serlous connideration. Several possible Ideas bave occurred to us on how

ve can mount this type of operation. As yet, horever, none of these has

boen vorted through sufficiently to prepare e definite plan of actio.

Nevertheless, it appears to us that any effort that rould carry convietion

would have to be based on detalled knowledge of the "proposed victi's.".

hmbita, movements, and exposures to the publie, providias a baste for tin-

Ing an ittack and selecting a site fron which an sttempt could be unde. In

shot, the mm infountion 1e needed an vould be required 11 an actual

«sassintion setempt vore contemplated. It muld be bolpral 1f retchen

and spa could be prepared to shou routes of travel, time intervals, places

of mntage, altes of police statione, routes of escape, location of safe

stes, play md siternte nans of extiltruting after the attempt, loca-

tions of uites for caching the vapon and for picking up travel documente.

Such mterials could then be vorked into an operation attributable to the

Chinese Commista by the Introdaction of suitable Chinese touches, and

would provide docementary support to the prim facle evidence of the funds

in rifle.

2. We believe that without the authentication described above, the

combined: runor and "evidence" -111 jendily be detected as a provocation.

Ve therefore sagest that you draw togrther the information described above

and forurd 1t to Hendquurters to be processed far use in nounting this

operation.

CHESTER D. DAINOLD

OLIVER G. GALSOND

• Distribution:

Orig. & 1 - Havana

1 - HB/4

2

- FE/н/CA

1 - RID/ DeP

1 ≤/CE/CA

jrh

(8 July 1960)

RYBAT

FORM

10.97.53

(40)

119 99V1027

51-28. 51.28A AND 51 :?

WHICH AGE DESOLETE.

SECRET

---

