# 104-10312-10382

## Page 1

104-10312-10382

SECRET

XAE-IC48

14 August 1968

from

decisio

7

pel.

-;

187.0

SUBJECT:

GUCAS, Chris

Subject 1s Identified as a California Investigator who administered

a polygraph test to Edgar Eugene BRADLEY who has been charged with conspiracy

by GARRISON.

Subject was born 12 August 1921 at Omaha, Nebraska, He 18 & former

(Agency, employee who EOD In October 1949 as a GS-9 Intelligence Officer.

Subject resigned his staff status in February 1951 and became a stail

agent with Project ENDOMORPH In

from March 1951 until July 1952.

(His wife Anne Claudia GUGAS nee SEVARO was granted a covert security clearance

1n February 1952 for use in a clerical capacity in the Middle East.)

Subject was a

In his assignment with Project ENDOMARPE JA

• source of constant embarrassment in his contacts with

officials. He was boastful, Indiscreet, lacking In sound judgment, knew

little or nothing In the fields in which he was self-professedly an expert

and was guilty of security breaches In falling to maintain his cover.

In one incident he made recommendations of polico reorganizations to be

made by provlace governors in

whereas, 1nl

the Police

Department is a national organization and not subject to the dictates of

the province governors. This caused much ill will and friction with the

police.

Subject professed to be an expert in his knowledge of the polygraph

machine and claimed he had two years' experience with the Los Angeles

Police Department prior to his employment with the Agency. However, iù

was developed that instead of this claimed experience, he had actually

spent one or two weeks in a detective school connected with the Los Angeles

Police Department where he received below average grades.

In October 1952 he approached an Agency employee regarding a new

type of technical equipment and this conversation led to the disclosure

by Subject that he was employed by the Agency In a covert capacity; that

e was teaching lie detection techniques to foreign police department

Ithout being authorized or competent to do so. Subject was briefed 1

December 1952 with stress placed on the importance of living up to his

security responsibilities and exercising utmost precaution in protecting

the covert interests of the Agency.

In spite of the strong warnings given him in this interview, Subject

again bocame Involved in an Incident of official embarrassment to the Agency.

CROSS FILE COPY FOR

201-0834822

DO NOT DESTROY

5 201-0834822

SEGRET

Excluded from autemalle

downgrading and

declassilication

+0-360-01704

---

## Page 2

13-00000

In March 1953 he misrepresented himself as a polygraph operator with the

"State Department Secret Police"

' This nisrepresentation was made at a

time when the Department of State was not authorized to have a polygraph

machine and Congressional legislation was pending at the time regarding

such authorization. As a result of this misrepresentation, Subject was

afforded another security Interview In March 1953.

He explained that

his cover company sold equipment to foreign countries through the Mutual

Aid Program and supplied consultant services to the State Department but

Subject denied that he ever represented himself as a State Department

polygraph operator. After the security Interview Subject was also assessed

by an Agency, psychologiat (March 1953) and was found to be egotistical,

emotionally unstable, possessed of a need to build himself up in the

eyes of others and gave either exaggerated or completely erroneous

Information as to his past positions. His Intelligence quotient was found

to be comparatively low ln relation to those of other (Agency employees.

In April 1953 termination of his employment was recommended.

Subjeat resigned 29 April 1953 "to accept a position in California.

Washington climato 18 not agreeable to his fanily."

In April 1964 MI. J. KIrK BAREPOOT, Director of Security, McKesson

and Robbins, Skokte, Illinota, informed the Agency he had been a witnesa

to unauthorized disclosures of clasaifled Information made by a group in

a cocktall lounge In Onba, Nebraska. The Individual making the disclosures

about ENDoMoRPi activities abroad under Agency sponsorship was Identified

as LaCKard HARKELSO. Subject, who was then Director of Public Safety

for the City of Omaba, Nebraaks, was one of the group and it was belleved

that he was responsible for supplying the clasalfied information to HARRELSON

about biDonoRen activities.

Leonard HARRELSON 10 a private Investigator speclalizing In hypnotlem

and the use of the polygraph machine. In 1964 he was employed by the Keeler

Polygraph Company In Chicago, Illinois. In 1954 HARRELSON was In partnership

with lloyd 3. FURl 1s a private detective agency known as the American

Bureau of Investigation, lower Bullding, Washington, D. G. lloyd B. BURR See attemen

1ª the polygraph operator who gave a lie detector test to Gordon love,

hostile witnesa subpoenaed by GARRISON. The test received newspaper publicity

as being glven at "Moleas, Va." In March 1967. (Sumary on FURR attached).

HARRELSON 15 believed to be a person of poor morals. He was given

a medical discharge fron the Army as a psychoneurotic in 1949 end had been

court-martlaled twice for impersonating non coumissioned offcers of a

rank higher then he possessed. In his business partnership with FURR,

JARRELSON sould marepresent himself as being with the FBI by covering the

word "American" when presenting his credentials and just showing "Bureau

of Investigation".

Incidentally, the informant, J. Kirk BARNFOOT mentioned above, was

aisapproved for Agency employment in 1951 because of falsification of his PHS,

and questionable maturity, judgment, discretion and honesty.

SECREL

---

