# 104-10180-10105

## Page 1

104-10180-10105

RI

RETURNTO CIA

Background Use Only

• Not heproduc

60 BY

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

іт.

•SECRET

FAiN

16-15

Bin trai

POVXACE COPY

UNAT

4; 805

ct 88ad

SI

45 a: LOS

INO

VR

UE CRET 032330Z

DIR CITE UNOS T1OT RI-S

C YOBITE

1N16576

F4 NOY 1900

REF:

ESOSTIas (1N 15370)

1.

MABASSADOR ASKS THAT FOLLOWING BE DISCUSSED WITH APPROPRIATE

DEPT OXFICERS INCLUDING ASSISTNAT SECRETARY MANN.

2. IN DISCUSSING REFERENCE ARMS ORDER WITH PRESIDENE ORLICH ON

3 NOVEMBER, AMBASSADOR LEARNED THAT ARMS ARE BEING PURCHASED BY

ANSANG-I. (SEE REGER CHANNEL MSG) ALTHOUGH HUMAP-S) HAS INDICATED

TO ARMY MISSION SOURCE THAT SHIPMENT WILL ENTER COSTA RICA THE

PRESIDENT IS OF THE OPINION THAT ARMS WILL NOT COME HERE. NEITHER

PRESIDENT NOR HUMAP-9) HAVE INDICATED ULTIMATE DESIGNATION THESE

ARAS.

3. PRESIDENT FURTHER REPEATED TO AMSASSADOR THAT BOTH AMBANG-1

AND ALBIDDY-I HAD TOLD HIM "CONFIDENTIALLY THAT U.S. GOVERNMENT

IS BEHIND THEM BUT RPT BUT THEY HAD PROMISED THEIR U.S. GOVERVYENT

CONTACIS NOT TO REVEAL THIS. BASED ON THIS DÉSCLOSURE PRESIDENT

INDICATED WILLINGNESS TO COOPERATE WITH AMBANG-! TO HELP U.S.

AND THUS IN THIS INSTANCE CAS IN PREVIOUS CASE WITH AWBIDDY -1)

ASSIGNED HUMAP-S) TO HANDLE ARRANGEMENTS.

fusi

SECRET

ilBR

---

## Page 2

14-00000

CLASER EO MESSAGE

SECRET

PRES:SENT HOVEVER, DESIRES ASSURANCE THAT U.S. GOVERNKENT WANTS AMBANG-!

'TO HAS THIS SHIPMENT AND TRAT THIS SHIPMENT AND COSTA RICAL"S

CONTINUSO PARTICIPATION VILL CONTRISUTE TO ACHIEVEMENT OF IMPORTANT U.

• S. ESCIOTIVE. I IN OTKER WORDS PRESIDENT ORLICHIHAS INDICATED HE VILLING

TO STIGS HIS NECH OUT AND THAT OF HIS COUNÉRY IF US GOUT. THINKS

THIS'REALLY WORTHVHILE.

4. USLESS THERE ARE OVERRIDING READONS EMBASSY RECOMLENDS AGAINST

SHIPYEST OF ARMS WITH U.S. MARKINGS TO COSTA RICA. WE FEEL THAT

SHIPIENT CAN'T BE KEPT SECRETEAND COULD CREATE A REAL PROBLEN FOR

PRESEN, GOVERNMENT (REVERSE OF VENEZUELA CASTRO CACHES. EMBASSY

ALSO CONCERNED THAT A-44 ARRIVED WITH NO CONTROLS.

S. UNLESS NE ARE PREPARED TO RUN RISX DISCLOSURE U.S. GOVERNHENT

INVOLVED IN THIS SHIPXENT TO ANGLIST AND THAT USE OF THESE ARMS

MEET WITH OUR APPROVAL AMSASSADOR RECOMMENDS LICENSE NOT BE ISSUED.

S. DISASSADOR DESIRES INSTRUCTIONS IN ORDER ANSVER PRESIDENT ORLICH

QUERY AND ALSO IF AND HOW DEPT AIRGRAM A-AA IS TO BE ANSHERED.

70 FOR DIRE COS IN FULL AGREEMENT WITH ABOVE POSITION. SHOULD

IT BE DSEMED APPROPRIATE THAT AYBANG-I HAVEBARMS DESCRIBED SUGGEST

HE BE ADVISED SECURE THEN FROM THIRD COUNTRY. WOULD APPRECIATE

ANY BACFSROUND HEADQUARTERS CAN PROVÍDE FOR STATEION INFO.

SECRET

SECREY

---

