# 104-10431-10060

## Page 1

104-10431-10060

-25598

To:

Assistant Deputy Director, Plans

T.

From:

Chief, SR/CI

Subject:

OPple son Catet, SR Division, re Possible KGB role In Kennedy

slaying

The following is the text of a cable from Chief, SR Division, sent

vla closed channel from Frankfurt at 23162 on 23 November, for the attention

of Me. Angleton:

I desire that you consider these reactions to the Kennedy

assassination:

& Within minutes of the first news, Moscow radio statements

as heard in London attributed the assassination to "right-

wing elements." Only as the true identity of the believed

a38as81n became known did Moscow begin to complain that

U.S. reactionaries were using Oswald as a pawn.

b. Should not the assigment of 13th Dept. officers to the KGB

residency in the United Nations In New York be considered

1n a new light?

C.

I discovered from Arthur Martin (of

during our long

and exceptionally valuable discussions,

that one of Harold

Wilson's principal scientific advisors is Captain Ian Maxwell,

who has a long soviet intelligence background.

This may

shed new light on ABIADIE's report LI.e., that Harold Wilson

may be a Soviet agenty.

2.

Putting It baldly, was Oswald, unwlttingly or wittingly, part of

a plot to murder President Kennedy In Dallas as an attempt to

further exacerbate sectional strife and render the U.S. Government

less capable of dealing with Soviet Initiatives over the neit

I! AFLADIE's views on Wilson and the information noted in

paragraph Ic above have any substance (and they cannot be ignored),

this suggests that we can expect major Soviet pressures over the

next several months, for which the Soviets have made careful,

long-range preparations."

2. The above reference to 13th Dept. officers In New York refers to the

presence, reported by an FBI penetration of the KGB locally, In New York or

Washington of one or two known officers of the 13th Department of the lst Chief

Directorate (Foreign Intelligence) of the KGB.

This department is charged with

"liquid affairs," sabotage and assassination.

One of the 13th Deptu Officers,

33

Document Number

-537

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW

CONDUCTED ON 1 6 APR 1976

for FOlA Review on. APR 1975

RECORD COPY

E/S 2MPDET CL BY 0 12208

23 10 63

201-259248

---

## Page 2

13-00000

by the way, met clandestinely with a Soviet "exchange student" from a

Pennsylvania university during the school year 1902-63, which suggests that

the Sovlet student 1s also a 13th Dept. officer or agent. Perhaps

significantly, his course of studies was in food chemistry!

3. You will note that Mr. Murphy's comments come without benefft of

the traces we passed to you earlier today, showing that Oswald had contact

with a 13th Dept representative in Mexico City.

Another recenty-arrayed cable

suggests that orwald a business wath the Seviet consul was cornette vati le

own visa to the USSR and Cuba (in transit) and may, therefore, have been

really rather than ostensibly Innocent.

T. I. BAGLEY

---

