# 104-10172-10205

## Page 1

104-10172-10205

1818: 10 891)

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

•Do Not Reproduce:

PRION TO FUIPIG

#o: 880889-1998r08888 shred, solees de enereale

RiD/

THON:

P/Лi8:

1XT. 7037.

1" 10.

C.150

TUbE GTJ

TO

#O0#

NO.

17667 41

CI/ESEC

05 APR 1972

Eraie 7

Nielir

DC C/11 APR BIZ

c/el

D

10.411.4 sur

JUN 1972

1.6

15 Ture.

desumanda RIDIAN

PROME DERE NO

TO: ALLADORISSEES

5B/MC

E/REG

DOC. MICRO. SER.

MAR 28 1972.

MICROFILMED

file.

10.

N2.

19.

х lill..

-19048

isiesce

-Reinteros.

messig

re degnes of intern. es

Ten front wich'

ZIBR

---

## Page 2

55610 de

SECUAT KIHAT

8.18.8.0

10 HIST

Chrt, sended Etect Coleg, European DivisIon

_15-1

XT 995957989098918

SINT

C TOON NONETO 01116IMI8

ACTION REQUIRED: ETI

REFERENCE:

None

• .

* ig

1 < Attached herewith is A JAGUAR report of debriefing. of

ASSNASH regarding the repercussions to the defection or

bineas

SLINKARI

Atinchrent:

R/w

JAGUAR Report

01

Distribution:

= C/WOMUSE,

hw/att

2 - C/SB, hw/att

.3 - C/EUR, hw/att

23

F21)6-736/3

T: 156/4

22 (OELA-51618'. =°

• SECRET/RYBAT

20 March 1972

501996055

SISR

---

## Page 3

DOG NIRO. SER.

W19 2 5 1972

Mim:

RiBAT SECRET

diatolly :1:ha1orich COLITSCI

born 25.8.19250

Dafected In Finlead 15.12.1951.

GOLTIST desceted during sours's pesied of cervice sit: the .G.B.

Soures deard about hia fron various i.G.b. officars bus nover set hin

and iner of his only by this nerd.

Irina TEPLIAOYA horover also knew 11

OF GOLITSYU DO KLILOY.

sno heard his story then che visited her parent

1n Finland and, shile thoro, she net GOLIESYN's vifo nho called on hor

sothere:

with rogard to COLlIStly dofection, source said he had been told

1n London by both Kontantin Ivanovich ZOTOV hoad of K.G.3. Jrancia 2

(Counter intelligence) there, end Sergey litkhaylovich COLAN, tho I.G.B.

officer responsibie for the SoKo, that GOLItSTi, those job in Finland

source described as "Branch 2 or schethind", had cirshed violently vita.

hia Resident in Eelsinsi®

He rrote e minder of official and private

lesters to roscoz shing that cither he o= tho besident bo trensferred.

Headquerters refused to egree this, and then he visited oscow threatened

that 1f he failed to cut on with the Resident he mould ba in danger of

losing his jod.

This mas too such for GOLIiSYl, so hn dafacted.

Sauce

cdded thut this reson for GOLITSY!'s defection was convincing, end that

he had never hoard any sunour that it was not ceruine.

3.

Source gave the following inforaction about the nossures taken by

the X.G.3. as the result of COLIPSYll's dofections

(a) He had been sentenced to desthe this mes stated in an article

In "The Chekist" which appeard some tiue after 1964.

The K.G.B.

would try to kill him as soon as they could find hin.

(b) Within six recks of COLUBSVis arrival in London on 12.6.71. h0 i

sold sourco that he had received s telcan from Herdnuerters ordering

him to concentrate on obtaining information about GoLlisiti, (50 whos

she doGobo had tiran ine abusiva nichnana UCD), because according to

their infomation GOLINSYN had visited Ingland several tines, ard ahtle

taoy had nor established "the placo of recidence" they had no ansroachi

to bin.

Loscon required détailed in omation about there he uns livin

his habits end activitica.

pres the sarding of this telegra sourcs

deduced that COLINSYli vas no: resident in ailand, and that the objeot

of this order nas to renind GOLTEDY of a atanding instruction that the

highest ariority ass to be given to obtaining infornation about his.

GS COPY

t/w.ArT. /To@-LA)54618 RAT SECRET

201-079788

i/BR

---

## Page 4

CI)ESEC

To Chip womuse

FRom: Chip of Station.

22

0511- 54618

55027

30A1

$ 7 MAR 1972

I5KT

MAR 22 1972

2 7 MAR IZ:

ZI1R

---

