104-10071-10056

va

beds rf
D 1S ne TCH se : GASSIRGATION 2 ou L. ~ PROCESSING Aura.
. ipyae F G =
yas: : 3
q PA : | SECRET/RYBAT TAARKED FOR INDEXING |
Ez)
Chief, WOMUSE NO INDEXING REQUIRED.
A, fs ee ONLY QUAUFIED DESK
i - [CAN JunGe INDEXIRG”
Ey PB 27, |2-35. aes aN} i: sutaannaa
oe ql MICRORU
CREM REQUIRED = REFERENCES
ACTION:

q
|

1. The following information on the Subject of 201-867508
was obtained by © z who hosted ain at. his: home-in mid.
April 1971:_ Subject: has; been. in; Tanzaniz>.for: 20. months. *
expects :to remaim :there- pea am She- is. employed .by the
GOT as.an‘ asSistant to the. Deputy Chief Accountant, for thi
National Development..Corporation.:: She. expects. te--be: promoted,
to the- post. of. Deputy Chief Accountant: on, the first. of May’ when.
her present boss. is himself advanced.: She.claims. to receive a
“soo0da'! salary plus a -TS2500/month house. for which she has to

ey only 10%, bios the GOT ‘picking uP a rest. :

2 Subject 3 grew. up. in queens, New Yor! > where a was -is:
very active in the African-Methodist-Episcopal Church where
she met her husband 25 years ago. She didn't finish high
school but: was a good typist and, easily. found employment "with
the New York: Jews.who. realized they could hire.a good :black
secretary for 2/3: what they.'d. have to pay-'a white .".-:-She was
always. active in social.causes, anti-war. demonstrations , civil
rights. movements, and was active in CORE in 1966. She was a
staunch admirer of Malcom-X and attended his funeral with,
Mrs. Martin Tuther King.

3. Subject was a member of the Jamaica ib, an
organization created ta teach Afro-Americans to shoot rifled.
She claims to have "fingered" two "infiltrators".who had been
recruited by the authorities to penetrate the organization.
She claims that her instructor was another infiltrator who
eventually testified in court, causing the organization to be

"busted."
Distribution:
Ny Orig. & 1 - C/WOMUSE OTS
lex REREKE TO DISPATCH SYMBOL AND HUMBER DATE
ze
ee ee (axna46275 30 April 1971
etoraeesa-toeecnsit CSRCATION HOS File NUMBER

a ~PeRET/RVRAT



i PLeAGasSINLDAL |

Gon Subject, has two sons. One, named Dennis (age 20), has
joined her in Dar es Salaam‘after she set up a mechanism to
help him evade “the draft-and depart the country illegally.

She has another son who is 26 years of age who Spent two years
in the Army.. He “had been promised educational opportunities
by the recruiter. When denied these he studied abnormal

psych extensively and tried to feign mental illness, but was
instead put up for Court Martial for malingering. A frend of
Subject, the founder of the "Serviceman's Union" helped spring

the son. SESE Tet omemwracn acct czctenTEeD
5. Subject provides a home fy Pee eee
F inj», a 26-year-old son of a prominent electrical

contractor in Dayton, Ohio. After avoiding his draft call--
when his father couldn't buy it off--he was jailed, but released

- on bail. He jumped bail and was. put on a plane for Dar with a

note to President Nyerere to "...take care of my son." He's
been in Dar for two years. He has had three audiences with:

7 the President at which he las presented Nyerere with prototype
lathes and guns which he has himself produced in the technical
school where he teaches. He has promised to have a prototype

i

{

of an M-16 ready for display at an upcoming trade and industrial
fair.

6. Subject provides housing and contacts for Afro- |
Americans coming to Dar es Salaam.°XOROWL/1 describes her
political attitudes as "..:similar to a religious convert--
more radical than the radicals." She claims to be frustrated
with the slowness of the revolution in Tanzania suggesting

{

| that experts from China and North Korea are needed, not those
| from the West.
|
|
!

Qe LWP oe kk

Burton. L. KORADE

|

N

