# 104-10113-10174

## Page 1

104-10113-10174

12114

Chief, Cartact iivisios

Support Branca

15 June 1961

ME CRANDUS OF JISIT TO:

Evello Dugue

(30 padress trailable)

• On 5 June 1961 at thn request of iD, l nice Eman

P the Nand Field Orfico acted as an tutermeter in a debriefin

Interrier vith Evello Digue, on lacembry resiatance leader. Dague,

en assistart, and an underground warter were brought to the is in

a Ilabing launch. They arrived in sey Vest and vers hrought to

Had by the Us Border Patral. The lutarview was beld in Border

03

Patrol aflees. Others present vere Halter loch of WHD and

ad Security.

2. Is purpose of the Istervier ma to secure sora Information

In order to begla establishing whether or not the subject was iverto

Duque as be claimed The Subject did not provide detstled securate

Information ma subhad.

3- Subject and nia group vere returned to the custody of Border

Patrol offclals sno released then to secure lodging tor the idght-

Subjeet sati he had U3 $200. It was susgested to Subject that the

sroup go to s nearty notel rather then a dourtou hotel. It vas

alto suggested that the group not go shopping in Heal for new clothes.

H. It was later ascertalied that the group contacted one FAU

Carola, a lorr Cuben Intallipe Service aficer under Mnchado,

tho now rouldes in Haul. The group apparently spent the night at

Carctata house: The followly sorning all venders of the grous hai

nor clothing.

5. I returned to Border Patral et 0930 bours on 6 Jua 61- Ise

[anders at the group vera photograybed and filled out PEl, statements.

joch and 3 la. fevett vere present. It was evident that ny serviees

as in Interunter debriefer vere not seeder. I gave koch & coyy oi

too notes I bad zade tha previous isy and left.

6. Subjeet appears to be a poorly aducated aidala cless ca

loner class person. Le 19 34 gears oid, sarang and tuscular. le

is about 5° 6" or T and would weigh cbout 175-130 solada. Le bas

I deep sear ca is chin, end the erds ai his fingers on both anda

turned up sherply st the first joint as 1i tbey bad been braben at

sone time and iad not healed property.

1H-261

1/PV

---

## Page 2

, 1-00000

BLINDENTA

To. I cannot evaluste subjort'= clata to be ivello Duque.

By his own staterent be loos there are Cubans in Mand uno can

¡sently hito. It toamiar appears probable that Suoject la

Brello Dugue.

JUSTIN F. CIRICIALE

(munaber.

"y..

---

