# 104-10068-10115

## Page 1

104-10068-10115

Sesse.

ORIG

UNiT

DATE

10 .

FROM

In. M. Thetter, ST.

SA-C/WH

1359

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

3 = 4

ROUTING

I BOOK CABLE SEE BELOW

DIRECTOR

$ 4 Ju 53 ??

DESIGN-CEN

23z

X

NFO

56536667

JIGIN

REF :

A.

в.

DIR

25583

26555

C.

DIR: 26607

D.

DIR 23400

REPORTING REQUIRKHENTS SET FORTH IN REFS ARE MODIFIED AS

FOLLOWS: HENCEFORTH EACH STATION SHOULD CABLE TO HQS BY 5TH OF

EACH MONTH, KEYED TO LETTERS AS INDICATED, THE. FOLLOWING INFO:

A. NUMBER OF TRAVELLERS OF YOUR HOST COUNTRY NATIONALITY

KNOW TO STATION TO HAVE TRAILED TO CUAN DURING PRECEDING

B. SAME AS A, BUT FROM CUBA TO HOST COUNTRY.

C. SAME AS A, OTHER NATIONALITIES, BY NATIONALITY.

D. SAME AS B, OTHER NATIONALITIES, BY NATIONALITY.

B. ANY SIGNIFICANT INFO REGARDING TRAVELLERS, E.G. "15

OF THOSE INCLUDED IN A AND B ATTENDED ARCHITECTS CONFERENCE IV

HAVANA* OR *5 OF THOSE INCLUDEL IN B ARE KNOWN TO HAVE RECEIVED

HELLASINO OFFICER

COOIOINAIINO OFFICERS

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

AUTHIATICATIMG

-0:14: 8

Capy ter

---

## Page 2

14-00000

ITING

i. 22

RICEN

732

ALS

OF

ITY

CATIMO

CEn

Copy No

ORIG

Unit

EXT

• DAtE

10

FROM

COME

INTO

TC

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

POUTING

DIRECTOR

DENGERSO

SOUTiNE

PAGE THO

C:1: 018

GUKRILLA TRAINING."

P. SIGNIFICANT DEVELOPIENTS IN THE MATTER OF TRAVEL

CONTROL, BITHKR COOD OR BAD, WITH AN INDICATION WHETHER STATION

OR ANY OTHER ODYOKE ELEMENT EXERCISED INFLUENCE IN BRINGING ABOUT

THE DEVELOPKENT.

G. SANE'AS CONCERNING CONTROL OF MOVEMENT OF ARMS.

H. SAME AS P CONCERNING CONTROL OF MOVEMENT OF PROPAGANDA

MATERIAL:

ANY COMENTS STATION THINKS SHOULD BE CONSIDERED FOR

INCLUSION IN PROGRESS REPORT TO HIGHER AUTHORITY CONCERNING

CUBAN SUBVERSION IN YOUR COUNTRY.

IND OF MESSAGE

Ny,:

C/IH/2

они

C/WH/3

C/WH/5

дніль

COORDINATINO OE

pertena

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

AUPAFATICATIRO

OFFICER

Copy No.

---

