104-1044 -10066|

Stoel

KAAZ- 173757
27 AY 1954

NOGM POS: Mr. J. Les fankin

SUBISCT: © Lettar ceusing thy Chinese Coumunists
of Plotting tha cezaesination of Procideat
Beaneay Reselved by US. Sebassy Steckhele

rence la made to parsgraph two of yoar :-merindum,
“bruary, requesting copies of dicseminsticns relztive to
A vere sent te the Seerct

dated 1
the assaosination of President Heaney t
Sarvise. :

chortly after the sseeesimition the Unites (tates irobagsy In
‘tockholm received 4 latter, mailed on “5 November 1957, which
acsuscd the Chinese Communists of plotting thie sct. This infor-
mastion +48 diusominated on ? Deccmber tothe <vhite
wegariment of State, Seceral Sureae of Investigation, with 2 copy
to the Lecret Service, The exact text of the cisveminstion is
attached to this msmoranium.

i. You will note that, 9 stated in tha laet sentence of the
pttachment, this letter w2a to be submitted to technics? anstysie
by Wis experts who have coacluces that the Litter ~.
#ritten by a Swede, using a Swedish keyboard typ
sh stattonsry.

Uo money VIO" JF

926) Nor
We-Wnennns

2, La view of the [set that this letter «ze receives st thie
Unites Ststea Zmbasey, the Commicsion may bave already receives
information «bout the aocament from the Ls gartment of “tate.

i201: 299243
‘. :_l
“og 27 Mey Of sien
“tusehment SECRET gtd 201- 234245


13-00000

Le GIRMAsTAHA
be CU/BRS/LOL

Originated by; CH/R&A/TRHaline(6664, <2 May 1964)

SENET


13-00000

‘ SEERET (

LUT Taletypa No. 67796, isteu 9 bucomber 195,
tothe | Bits Sowse, state cops stmunt ana: eieral
Tavs stiea, «ith a copy te the “seret Lervice

i, Tbs mericsa Umbsacy in itockheim, eieu. haa received
& letter matled 25 November 196° in btockuolm sleging tact the
astassimaticn of Freaisent Sesncdy 529 arranged by the fos Chinese.
The letter parparts to ba from one Tyo Liang Yuau ef the 2ed Chinese
Smbeesy in Stockholm, but no ouch official is assignad there ani
there ie ne record of a Chipesn e'fictal by this name anywhere
abresd.

i. The letter is «vitten in brokom Saglish und pistes that the
Chinese Communists got in contact vith C34L0 «hea he ozs in
the tovist Uniga. “han CS 4525 returned to the U.5...., the Ned
cbinste re-comtactes hiss, threatened to expose hice li ha did
couperate. The Red Chinese expected that the U.i. vould attack
cuks chan if learned that the tesasuin waa 4 cuban sympcthicer. The
Soviets sould thea attack the U.S... the Rud Chinees would ask
Soviets for atomic weapoas, the Commanist Bice would «inthe -2r.
the Chinese Reds could than nssaaclnate Khraschey and txke over
contre}.

". The writer said he worked for the "eps rtmest of Stata
Secret”, but nv cepartment by thio name is inown in the Chinces
Communist Covernment. Cur Judges this ©
tobe a crank letter. The original Tater 1 belay tent here for
analysis.

03 pap

scene [SESS

Encue 1 te. KAAB~ 1737S 261~ 2IIDET



13-00000

Sanitized File _G-
Barber

367 __
For sterile copy of this documsnt.

ney ae

poonmony HMPA T : |

error ween

