104-10340-10447;

. Mémoranc wun. -; : eae

i ce ae \ ae 2 - Mr. Sullivan
TO Mr. We Cy Sullively ee + DATE: » 44-67

Qe a, \ 1 - itr. Branigan”
Mo: Bi : 1 - Mr. Cregar
i FROM) : Mr. WA, Branigarl i

ecT: ASSASSINATION OF) PRESIDENT
te JOHN FITZGE! NNEDY : 0
(& E-? NovEMBER 22, 1963,
© ¢ DALLAS, TEXAS s

Holmes

1 - Mr. Lenihan Gandy.

tac

The purpose of this memorandum is to recommend that
we disseminate information fron our[Bhantro informant bearing
mn ‘on the eine vais of the late President Kennedy.

bs yt
wo

_ Cenatroc8l is the sensitive Soyiet whe who[ contacted
y

nd volunteered
urnish information. gHe is being handled Se ae
of CIA and fae ate Agents of our New York Office.

G-4 has recently reported certain details
concernin natrocdy reaction to the assassination of President
Kennedy. ‘ociJreported the Soviets had the KGB (Committee
for State eucere ter make an extensive study of the assassin-
ation and, as a result of this study, the KGB concluded that Re

| President Kennedy was killed by representatives of a group of

[mmwFncameereee ee
AEN Aer!
AOL hmH ret -

PY FILED IN

cae
won
CO)

\

monopolists, characterized as the military—industrial complex
in the United States. The KGB felt that President Kennedy had
tried to limit the activities of this group of monopolists
and therefore they planned, his % assjnation, ee
ak vemumyi | (40 ec O81
GSnanrocy further A ee that the Soviets felt

. that President Kennedy's death was a great loss, not only for

“the United States and Ghailocky t Union, but for the whole
4 ec Word. According to cocky the Soviets felt that they
could trust Presiden Gn nedy and could deal with him on a‘
cooperative basis. hamroclj further stated that the Soviets
mourned President Kennedy's death, a situation which Shamrock
considered very unique inasmuch as 7.
was a leader of another country. oie

6 QAPRS?

fae

RD
M7
A he

Rew

ay Auster

The information furnished by [Shamro very similar :
to that previously furnished to us 'i_Noseskey] a Soviet
defector whose. a7 on fides has ie been NSTI

oe Sad 7 - ‘Coal
= 1s (8) CONTINUED - eo ag
yt
eh APR. “Ae A867 t Kevan
ay ia aaa BY FRUJFK, TASK
a AEE

‘ee been — Kei A a RLEASE 2A
TOTAL DENIAL

PE WSR arr] 9 00/Q 7

means
s



13-00000

Memorandum Branigan to Sullivan
RE: ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT

JOHN FITZGERALD KENNEDY
62-109060

We feel we should disseminate this data since
we have previously disseminated the information we received

from Yuri Nosenko] regarding the assassination even though
we recognized some of the data was not subject to proof,
particularly, that occurring wi ai the Soviet Union.
We feel that by documenting {Bhat cas a “confidential
informant, contact with whom has eB insufficient to
establish his reliability," we will alert other agencies
that the information has not been established as true.

We have received information from numerous other
sources that the Soviets did mourn the death of President
Kennedy and that Soviet leaders felt they could work with
President Kennedy,

ACTION: .

: £ you approve, we will disseminate the data furnished
by thejShamroc}informant as set out herein to the Department,

to Secret Service, to State Department and to Central
Intelligence Agency.

vo " y


13-00000 [
i. Memoran im ) 5 oS ee

‘ . ] ~ Mr, Sullivan
ro oMr, W. C, Sullivaty SoS ee ;

Q- A. i 1 - Mr. Branigan” ”
FROM ©; raniga 1 - Mr. Cregar Tele. oom
iH we. PAB Baty 1- Mr. Lenihan = 625;

supjecT: ASSASSINATION OF) PRESIDENT 4
JOHN FITZGERALD KENNEDY : 6
7 NOVEMBER 22, 1963, y

v& DALLAS, TEXAS 5

ney ot
Paces
ae

The purpose of this memorandum isto recommend that
we disseminate information from our[Shamrock}informant bearing
on the assassination of the late President Kennedy.

E

s :
: Csnamrocf] is the sensitive iet source whol contacted
land volunteered
to furnish information. Bie is being handle representatives
of CIA and Special Agents of our New York Office}

bh nny

Aiea ecntrtgerneee mete. cna nereege te

Ghanrogd has recently reported certain details
concernin it aie reaction to the assassination of President
Kennedy. oc] reported the Soviets had the KGB (Committee
for State Security) make an extensive study of the assassin- |
ation and, as a result of this study, the KGB concluded that |
President Kennedy was killed by representatives of a group of |<" ¢
monopolists, characterized as the military—industrial complex
in the United States. The KGB felt that President Kennedy had
tried to limit the activities of this group of eee
and Pocus! the: ares his ass: . ion, | %

7 Ppt Maes ernst. eo 505%
? Garo eels r Lae Cat the Soviets fe1t
« that President Kennedy's death was a great loss, not only for
~ the United States and Gnekock t Union, but for the whole
ee world. According. to Ghai ock} the Soviets felt that they
could trust President Kepnedy and could deal with him on a‘
cooperative basis. hamroclj further stated that the Soviets
mourned President Kennedy's death, a situation which Shamrock
- considered very unique inasmuch as oT
was a. leader of another country. .
71 6 AAPRST

mocnen rabty

Ae Beenn in

ZEN Kees]

|
|

far

witiCORDED COPY FILED IN

RELS pee

Ny dusice mse,

The information furnished b: amroc! re very similar ,
to that previously furnished to us i_Nosenkey] a Soviet
defector ee bona fides has not been established.

}
ce)

7d
WW,

q 62-10! age *
REL:cls (8) CONTINUED - OVER “
vege ‘iat - 9

THIS DOCUMENT HAS “REEN APPROVED.
FOR, pee, AS SANIT.

Pen) Gh & wash aed YO?

Bern iz
Tremere nore inne nenenatieeecent SCR EE Pens
i eect MA TORRE I


13-00000

*  Yemorandum Branigan to Sullivan
RE: ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT
JOHN FITZGERALD KENNEDY
62-109060

We feel we should disseminate this data since
we have previously disseminated the information we received
[from Yuri Nosenko] regarding the assassination even though
we recognized some of the data was not subject to proof,
particularly, that occurring, within the Soviet Union.
We feel that by documenting[Shattrockjas a “confidential
informant, contact with whom has been insufficient to
establish. his reliability," we will alert other agencies
that the information has not been established as true.

We have received information from numerous other
sources that the Soviets did mourn the death of President
Kennedy and. that Soviet leaders felt they could work with
President Kennedy. a

ACTION: .

f you approve, we will disseminate the data furnished
by the. hamrock¥informant as set out herein to the Department,
to Secret Service, to State Department and to Central
Intelligence Agency.

oo

nt
