# 104-10248-10235

## Page 1

104-10248-10235

PEE ERENCE A

SECRET

SECURITY INFORMATION

45

Background Sco Outy

A Do gi Feproduce

Chict, Tecimical Servicos Staff/DD/f•

Attas Security Officer

3 Narch 1952

assistant Chief, Socurity Contral Staff

Attendanoo at Professional leeting

Nemarandum dated 27 February 1952, to Assistant Deputy, Inspection and

Security fran Acting Chief, TSS/DD/S

Io On 28 February 1952, Mr. Bernard Durat, Security Officer, T3S,

was informod that this oitice ho no security objection to the

attendance of

03

David Christ.

GS-14

GS- 22

63-13

CS11

Chief, Appliad Physies Branch

Doputy Chiat, Applied Physica Branch

Chief, Audio Support Division

Deputy Chief, Auddo Support Division

at the Instituto of Radio EnrIneers leeting to be held at New fork City

3 to 6 larch 1952,

It was understood that these personnel were to attend the

noting as Observers onli, ani not as participate.

In regard to paraprash 3 of the Reference, it was ayroad

that these personal could reveal tineir CIA employment, If necessary,

when cortneting potential emloyees tho my be of use as consultants

or Staßt Employeos, It was understood that no covert personnel

procurement would be attemptei,

FOR THE SECUITE OFFICEE, CIA:

SIGNED

N. EL. IVON

I&SO

Distribution

cc: Security Officer/TSS/DD/P

03

Indiv. Files oi

Christ,

and

File, SCS w/basIu 03

Chrono•, Ses

I - 29 Febrary 1952.

Tr. Van Schrader, Personnel Procurement, advised that his office has

approved this procurement venture and arrangements have been made to follo

through in normal manner after these initial contacts have been made. This

folhowup action would include Security Clearance requests where appropriate.

SECRET

SIGNES

V. J. THILL

---

