# 104-10428-10011

## Page 1

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 2

13-00000

AB MEMO NO. 194

29 MARCH 1977

MEMORANDUM FOR: Deputy Chief, Latin America Division

ATTN

: Chris Hopkins

FROM

: Graphics and Authentication Division/Senior Operations Officer

SUBJECT

:

Photo Comparison

REFERENCE

: DDO/LA Division Memo, dated 25 March 1977

1. On 23 March, Chris Hopkins of Latin America Division handcarried

photographs to uses a dent i ation tomatos experts or hot siseuese

and Identification Section.

2. The results of the comparison is as follows:

facial Shape - Close similarities,

lifferences which are probably de sto subject's age differences are sligh

B. Chin - Fair similarities-the loss of muscletone due to ageing

is most apparent here.

C. Hair Line - Again good similarity with the natural ravages of

time factored in.

Set and Proportion of_ Eyes and Eyebrows - Close similarities.

(Comparison of eve detail is not possible due to poor photo quality)

E. Nose and Caliper Lines - Close similarities in the nose but

the younger man has no sign of the distinctive caliper lines which extend

from the nose to either side of the mouth on the known Soviet.

This could

be explained by loss of muscletone and/or differences in lighting.

F. Mouth - The shape, proportion and expression of the mouth and

the whole area from the tip of the nose to the tip of the chin is perhaps

the most distinctive characteristic of both subjects. Here the similarities

are very close.

SECRET

---

## Page 3

13-00,000

SUBJECT:

PAGE -20

Photo Comprison

The proportions of the head, check bones and the body style of

the younger man tend to indicate he is of slavic origin.

3. The results of this type comparison are rarely absolute and are

usually limited by poor photo quality or differences in viewing angle.

with that understood it is our opinion the two subjects of the forementioned

photo comparison could very likely be the same person.

photographs of the subjects,

If additional

particularly if they are of better quality,

are obtained, we would be happy to examine those as well.

Carton fare

Senior Operations Officer,

OTS/Graphics and Authentication Division

SECRET

---

