# 104-10121-10400

## Page 1

104-10121-10400

....as.

8 July 1960

MEMORAWDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT:

33/a

JMARC

$219000

1:

Attached is a study prepared by Wi regarding ant1-CASTRO

actlvities in the United States:

The date of the report 1s

15 January 1960.

Lots Post

CI/Support Desk

DOS/1&5

MEDS/l8S

C:. 5.2

cic"lp.!

Sex 13-

15:85 550

1GT.9

=::! 0236

GOITSCEt nis: pja

118 July 1560

file

SECRET

---

## Page 2

=

-

TRANSMITTAL SLIP DATE

TO:

ROOM NO.

REMARKS:

BUILDING

The attached is a retype of

thermofax copy of a report

entitled Anti-Castro Activities

1n the U.S. (dated 1/15/60).

FROM:

ROOM NO.

0RA MI

FEB 55 24

BUILDING

EXTENSION

(81)

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1033

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW FROGAARS

---

## Page 3

14-00000

...

ANTI-CASTRO

ACTIVITIES IN THE UNITED STATES

(Summary)

15 January 1960

SECRET

---

## Page 4

1. ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES IN THE UNITED STATES

Efforts of Cuban exiles based in the United States since

the fall of Batista and the assumption of power by the Castro

regime on 1

January 1959 have been characterized by continu-

ally shifting alliances aimed at securing for their leaders

a paramount position in any successor government in their

homeland.

Programs have been enunciated by individual leaders,

and funds solicited. Consider-

able propaganda has been published, and leaflets attacking

Castro have been dropped over Cuba

periodically. - Some mili-

tary and paramilitary training has been undertaken, particularly

in the Doninican Republic where a force ranging from a claimed

80 men to several thousand has been training for the past

nine months. Some exiles claim to have armed followers in

Cuba as well as a larger number of sympathizers.

There has

been one abortive invasion attempt.

These efforts have been weakened, however, by rivalries

petween the more prominent exiles for leadership of any for

mal anti-Castro movement established, and their failure to

agree on any program.

Their activities also have been affected

by the fact that most of the exiles were connected either

actively of passively with the Batista regime.

They recognize,

although they do not always admit this, that Batista's rule

is still too unpopular with the mass of Cubans for them to

engage in a successful effort to overthrow Castro unless they

are supported by a force far larger than any can command at

present.

These rivalries plus Castro's followers' long training

in revolutionary methods appear to have enabled Castro to

learn the plans of most of the alliances formed thus far well

math la

before they are put into action.

Nevertheless there has been, and continues to be, a general

recognition by most of the more prominent exiles that

they

must unite if they are to succeed in removing the present re-

gime. The most important potential leaders of any such move-

ment

to emerge so far are listed below under

separate headings.

1.

---

## Page 5

1. General Jose Eleuterio PEDRAZA Y Cabrera

When mention is made of military measures to eliminate

the castro regime attention inevitably focuses on General

Jose tieuterio PEDRALA y CabIera. Nile opinions ditter

as to his suitability for the role of leader of a military

attack on the Castro forces,

is regarded by the most

prominent and

most active exile leaders in the United States

as the only military leader in a position to take effective

in the field against Castro.

The forces at his disposal in the Dominican Republic,

the loyalties he can conmand within Cuba, and the help

he

get from exiles in the United States have been variously

estimate frost a tee hament a several thousand dierican

businessman that he hoped he could count on a force of 2,000,

led by 100

former Officers and Non-Commissioned officers of

Cuban origin.

The remainder of his force would be made up

of Spaniards, Yugoslavs, Germans, and perhaps a

few Dominicans. (

PEDRAZA has

expressed his willingness to work with General

Martin DIAZ Tamayo and Colonel Ramon BARQUIN and would wel-

come their cooperation but he has never hinted that he would

turn over leadership of his forces to either.

Forner Castro supporter Francisco RODRIGUEZ Couceiro,

who claims to have been one of the prime organizers of two

anti-Castro groupings The Anti-Communist Crusade (CRAC) and

The Christian Democratic Action (ADC) has backed PEDRAZA as

the military leader of

against Fidel Castro. (2sny expedition which should be launched

Rodriguez claims to have visited the

General late in October 1959 and to have reached an agreement

whereby Pedraza committed hinself to clean up his force of

men in the Dominican Republic and put them under the direc

tion and control of the ADC.

Rodriguez asserts that the

agreement provides for the

elimination of all but Cuban

nationals

from the forces in the Dominican Republic under

Pedraza.

Fabio FREYRE, a wealthy young Cuban--who also claims

to be the founder of the ADC--has made known his connections

with Pedraza and claims to have drawn up points of agreement

with him. (3)

Freyre has stated that General PEDRAZA is

2.

---

## Page 6

only Cuban general whom the constitutional

army would follow.

He adds that Pedraza was not closely identified with Batista's

coming to power but when the Dictator needed help Pedraza

was made head of the army. FREYRE believes that the Cubans

BARQUIN. AUf confidence in Martin DIAZ Tamayo nor in Ramon

Dr. Emilio NUNEZ Portuonde, now resident in Washington,

D.C., and one of the more prominent anti-Castro exiles, has

consistently tried to align the various anti-Castro elements

in the United States, Mexico, and Cuba behind General Pedraza. (

Carlos MARQUEZ Sterling, who

at the moment appears to be

rode ca gro sue cod or time o the listers For of sho

General Pedraza's service under Fulgencio Batista has

left a bad taste in the mouths of many Cubans who hated the

Batista dictatorship as vehemently as they now detest the

Castro regime.

There seems to be reasonable doubt that Dr.

CUERVO-RUBIO, whom RODRIGUEZ Couceiro has claimed CRAC sup-

ports as a

presidential candidate, would support Pedraza.

CUERVO-Rubio is reported to have stated that responsible

opposition to Castro inside Cuba would be reluctant to asso-

ciate with Pedraza and might join in the fight against him

should he attempt an invasion.

Some of these people have

repeatedly expressed the tear that lastro might use such

an invasion as a pretext to suppress all opposition.

Prom-

inent Orthodox Party leader Antonio VARONA also is reported

to be worried about the possibility of an invasion of Cuba

by Pedraza, to whom he is bitterly opposed and has sworn

that he and his followers would join with the Castro brothers

in repelling any invasion led by Pedraza. (8) It is considered

a distinct possibility that a Pedraza led invasion would play

into Castro's hands, leaving internal opposition no alterna-

tive but to lavasiast (9, in a national effort to repel a

Bastistiano

It is known that FREYRE'S ADC which supports Pedraza

for military leader would welcome the assistance and the

support of the former Chief of the Revolutionary Air Force

Major Pedro Luis DIAZ-Lanz.

However, DIAZ-Lanz has made

it very evident that he wants no part in military affairs

run by General Pedraza whom he categorizes as an enemy of

3

SECRE

---

## Page 7

Cuba along with Castro, Batista, Masferror. (9)

Recent evi-

dence, however, indicates that there is a possibility that

the former Chief of the Revolutionary Air

Force may be

reconsidering his previously inflexible attitude towards

Pedraza.

B. Emilio NUNEZ Portuondo

VUNEL Portuonde, now residing in Washington, D.C

• Was

one of the first to declare his candidacy for the

leadershir

of an anti-Castro movement.

A tormer politician

lawyer

and diplomat Nunez was Cuba's delegate

to the United Nations

from 1952 until 1958.

During this period he cooperated with

the US delegation and was outspokenly critical of-the UssR.

Most Cubars

in the United States, and in those Latin American

countries where he and his followers have solicited support

for their anti-Castro activities are under the impression that

he has some type of commitment with the US Government.

though

he continues to be mentioned, along with Carlos

MARQUEZ Sterling, as the most likely candidate for provisional

president of a successor government to Lastro, some sources

nave alleged that he would not make an effective president. (1)

Nunez' announced aim is the overthrow of the Castro re-

gime and its replacement by a civil government friendly to

the US and excluding individuals associated with Batista.

To this end he and his immediate followers have published

newsletter and

periodically dropped leaflets over Cuba at-

tacking Castro.

They also have directed

training of a small

number of Cubans in Miami,

the paranilitary

of whom

su August. C, Participated in an abortive invasion of Cuba

In addition Nunez and his followers have been

in_close contact with other leading exiles in the US. Dur-

ing the fall of 1959 he and his adherents travelled to Mexico,

Guatemala, Panama, Argentina and Peru to solicit support for

units in Venezuela last. They also have attempted to organize

There is no firm evidence that these efforts have suc-

However

Cast ar Protest a deep for the noninten

group in Mexico has supported

General Pedraza, in the Dominican

Republic, has supported Nunez for president

and Nunez in turn

---

## Page 8

has promoted Pedraza as military leader since the spring

of 1959. Nunez as recently as 14 December 1959 still

claimed to be the leader of Pedraza's group but the General

had previously asserted that he was disposed to work with

soth Nunez and Carlos MARQUEls terling but he proferred the

latter as Interin president.

Another possible adherent of Nunez is Pedro DIAZ-Lanz,

who is reported to have declared that he, and other with

whom he is working, would consider Nunez

acceptable if he

should divorce himself from Trujillo.

A step in this direc-

tion was taken by Nunez at the end of December when,

irritated by Trujillo's reluctance to permit a Pedraza

invasion of Cuba from the Dominican Republic, he told

C. Carlos MARQUEZ Sterling

Carlos MARQUEZ Sterling comes from a family with a dis-

tinguished record

in Cuban History.

He was born in 1899 in

Camaguay and received his education in Cuba, graduating

from the University of Havana with a law degree in 1920.

Three years later he became a professor at the University.

It was from the same Univeristy that he was removed in 1959

by Castro forces. MARQUEZ Sterling told American officials

that Fidel Castro had been one of his students at the Univer-.

sity of Havana 1945-1947, and that Fidel had been

• Teared

in an atmosphere of hatred for the United States.

His political career began while he was still in his

teens and he was arrested and imprisoned for his activities

Eless e tivities

in the revolution of 1917. During the thirties he lived in

Washington while his father was Ambassador.

Later he re-

entered politics and became

Speaker of the House of Repre-

sentatives.

He had a hand in

the establishment of the

Ortodoxo Party in 1946.

Previously Marquez had presided

over the drafting of the Constitution of 1940.

A former

Presidential candidate and a leader of the Partido del Pueblo

Libre (PPL) which he established in July 1957, Marquez Sterling

appears to enjoy the respect, it not necessarily the full

confidence, of many leading

Cuban exiles in the United States. (1)

SE

---

## Page 9

CRAC leaders asked him

to accept the position of Prosi-

dent of the government-in-exile but he las reluciant to do

so because he feared for the safety of his son, still f

Cuba. (2)

Marquez has been in contact with

most of the Cubar

exile leaders in the United States and has had

some discus-

sions with NUNEZ Portuondo, his chief rival for the presi-

Nunez (Some is bes

maintain that Pedraza prefers him over

of the Ortrodoxo Party in Cuba.

It is believed that marquez still has the support

D.

Pedro Luis DIAZ-Lanz

Major DIAZ-Lanz has gained considerable publicity for his

break with

Castro, his appearance before the Eastland Com-

mittee and his spectacular leaflet dropping over Havana on

21 October 1959.

His brother Narcos, who was Inspector General

of the Revolutionary Air Force (FAR)

joined him in Miami in

July and the two were until December closely associated

with

Ricardo LORIE Valls, a former underground leader of the

26 July Movement.

These three and a few other associates

have professed to have vigorous plans to overthrow Castro

out aside from the leaflet drop have noy performed any par-

ticular actions of special importance.

The Diaz-Lanz brothers

broke with Lorie, who appeared to have been the most mature

nember of the group, for reasons which are not al all clear. (2)

The snall group about Diaz-Lanz in conversation with U.S.

officials and private citizens has steadfastly refused to

have anything to do with former Batista officials while they

have stated

their intention to take any measures to insure

the downfall of Castro. (p)

In July 1959 Pedro DIAZ-Lanz stated that there is no

connection whatsoever between the anti-Castro torces in cuba

and those in the United States.

He regarded the followers

Of MASFERRER, Justo Luis POLO, former Mayor of Havana, Jose

LUIS PUJOL,

NUNEZ Portuondo and others as remnants of

Revolution in Cuba. loguld not be acceptable to the Counter-

lictatorships which

At the end of the year, however, Pedro

DIAZ-Lanz was reported as being willing to support Nunez

Portuondo if the latter would break with Trujillo. At the

sare time Diaz-Lanz is reported to have

550,000 from agents of Pedraza in Miami. tempted

actually was made, it seems to indicate at last a

on the part of Diaz-Lanz to work with Pedraza, something he

haz hitherto steadfastly refused to consider.

---

## Page 10

E.

Fabio FREYRE

Fabio FREYRE, a wealthy Cuban now residing in Miami,

claims that he has

organized the Accion Democratica Cubana

tary icader. has selected General Jose Pedraza as its mili-

Freyre say's the ADC and Pedraza have drawn

up the principal points of

an agreement for the liberation

of Cuba, which include the organization of commandos, selz-

ung of the Isle of Pines to be used as an operational

for the invading forces, sabotage and various psychological

warfare techniques.

Freyre's following in the U.S. is esti-

mated at some 200, while those based

in Cuba, under the

leadership of Juan Antonio RUBIO Padilla, number about 350,

Martin DIAZ Tamayo or Colonel BARQUIN. (2) Hence, it is as-

sumed that they are not among FREYRE's supporters:

F. Dr. Francisco RODRIGUEZ Couceiro

DI. Francisco RODRIGUEZ Couceiro claims to be the founder

and leadgy of another ADC, former prior to Freyre's organi-

He has similar plans for the reconquest of Cuba

but has for the most part different following.

Among his

principal supporters are Orlando PIEDRA, Rolando

and Julio LAURENT, all of whom were Batistianes. (SASFERRER,

Rodriguez

claims he asked Trujillo and General Pedraza for arms to

defend the Isle of Pines once he had taken it but they

turned him down. (6)

Recently, however, Rodriguez stated that

General Pedraza

had signed an

agreement putting his men in

the Dominican Sepublic and the Dominican anti-Castro radio

under the ADC.

of support in

Guatemala.

Rodrigugz also claims he has the promise

=

G. Orlando Eleno PIEDRA Negueruela

PIEDRA enjoys the distinction of being considered by the

Castro regime

as one of the principal war criminals in the

United

States.

He served for 18 years in police work in

Cuba and attained the

position of Chief of the Department

of Investigations until the fall of Batista.

In the United

states he has openly avowed his former connections with and

11s loyalty to Batista.

He has been associated for a time

---

## Page 11

SCh.

with ex-Senator Rolando MASFERRER and Eduardo HERNANDe,

former Cuban Consul General in Miami In the Anti-Communist

League, which has made two attempts to fly arms to Pinar

del Rio, Cuba. In each case men connected with the actual

flying of arms were arrested by U.S. officials.

Some time ago Piedra incurred the wrath of Trujillo and

he is not at all happy about the location of Pedraza!

forts. Ne considers Pedraza

a prisoner of Trujillo.(2,ef-

in September 1959 Jose SUAREZ Nunez, a Cuban exile arrived

in Miami to deliver instructions from Batista to Piedra to

attempt to immediately consolidate the anti-Castro forces

into a viable movement to overthrow the Castro government.

Batista reminded Piedra that there should be no involvement

with the Dominican Government and advised him that to the

greatest extent possible groups should be cultivated which

are now of might be expested to be looked upon with favor

by the U.S. Government.

Enrique FERNANDEZ Parajon, former

Chief of

the Secret Police under Batista was reported in

January 1960 as endeavoring to merge a group under the

leadership of Orlando PIEDRA with the ADC. He added that

the PIEDRA group has three planes which they would like to

use during the next 60 days to set fire to sugar cane

fields by dropping incendiaries.

However, FERNANDEZ bemoaned

the fact that tight United States controls in Florida were

hampering their activities.

Fernandez said that he is in

contact with Guatemalans and Nicaraguans and that he and

Piedra are responsible for military operations.

It was his

opinion that Pedraza has only 80 men in the Dominican Republic. (4

H. Brigadier General Martin DIAZ Tamayo

= General DIAZ Tamayo is a controversial figure, disliked

by many Cubans because he represents top military leadership

which in general was, unpopular among civilians and

military echelons,

yet respected by his peers. (pier

He is helc

in contempt by Chomat, former

legal counsel

General Pedraza has indiçated

that he would

work with DiAL Tamayo.

DIAZ has a moderate following of

Cuban ex-military men in Miami, where he now lives. He has

discussed with Nunez Portuondo

possibility of forming a coalition in suppose of ten e5)

8

---

## Page 12

I. Rolando MASFERRER Rojas

Rolando MASFERRER Rojas, former Senator during the

Batista

regime has played an

active but not significant

role among the exiles

in the United States or in Mexico.

His spectacular activities, unreliability and obvious op-

portunism have discredited him with the leadership and rank

as anti-Castro elements in Cuba.

le is anathema to Nunez Portyondo, General Pedraza and

santiago Rey, in particular.

MASFERRER was accused by the Castro regime of having

committed 70 murders and of having absconded with 17 mil-

He is remembered unfavorably by many Cubans

as having been a member of the Conmunist Party from 1939-

1944; later he did

an about-face and became an ardent and

"professional" anti-Communist.

also is unpopular because

of the activities indulged in by his

known as the "Tigers" during the Batisva regror (5) "He has

been described as a Jacobin, a demagogue, a tyrant and an

extremist.

For several years Senator MASFERRER enjoyed

reviling the United States, its people and its policies.

When anti-Communism became

popular about 1950-51 and

MASFERRER realized

"that this was a means of increasing bis

prestige with Americans he became a friend of the US.

J. Penetration of the Anti-Castro Movement

Castro has bragged that his capture in Cuba last August

of an arms-laden plane containing a group of anti-Castro

militants was due to his having planted a spy in their midst. (1)

Earlier the Chief Investigator of Cuban Army Intelligence

(Departamento de Investigaciones del Rjeroito Revolucionario

to the FBI that the Castro regime had

sent a man

to Miami with the express purpose of reporting or

che activities of anti-castro exiles.

During the sunmer one

of the more active anti-Castro exiles in the Miami area was

enticed back to Cuba where he was

immediately thrown in jail

by agents of Castro's Police

Intelligence (Departmento leoniso

de Investicaciones - DTT S, The Cuban Revolutionaly A ForCe

also is

in Miami.

agged to have had between 40 and 50 paid informants

There have been numerous indications that Casiro

probably has been able to plant agents among the followers

of most of.

country. (5) the more prominent anté-Castro exiles in this

SECRET

---

## Page 13

14-00000

SECRE

PEDRAZA

03

Memorandum for Record:

WHD, and

william

1 Pauley, 9 Dec. 1959.

Secret

2. DBF 36434, Nov. 4, 1959, Confidential

3. (UNWA) 24, Sept. 24, 1959.

Secret

also

WHD Memorandum

Memorandum for Record.

Conversation of Mr.

WHD

with Pauley and Freyre, Nov. 30,

1959. Secret

5. DBF 39015,

December 8, 1959. Confidential

6.

Memorandum for Record. Conversation between

WHD, and Wm. Pauley, 9 December 1959.

Secret

7.

COS Navana Tel. 3041 Dec. 16, 1959, IN-19840. Secret

8. TDCS 3/423,188, 31 December 1959

9. FBI, Miami, November 6, 1959, File 201-259120

Emilio NUNEZ Portuondo

1. 201-45667

2. DBF -33000, 31 Aug 59

DBF - 36517, 10 Nov 59, C

3. Ibid 1b-29

(BUEN- 5110,

30 Oct 59,

S

(HEPA, 9838,

10 Nov 59,

S

4. DBF-39015, 8 Dec 59

5. DBF-39016, 15 Dec 59

siemo for

Record.

Desk file - 19-9-8

72

6. (UNWA 65, 31 DeC 59

SECRET

---

## Page 14

Carlos MARQUEZ Sterling

1. DBF 34945, Oct. 8, 1959. Conf.

Z. DBF 35722, Oct. 29, 1959. Conf.

3. Memorandum for Record, Dec. 9, 1959

Conv.

Pand Wm. Pauley. Secret

4. Memorandum of Conversation between two representatives

of CIA and CARCIO, 16 Oct. 1959.

Secret

5. CS 3/411,429. 9 Sept. 59.

Secret

Pedro DIAZ- LANZ

1. DBF 33664, Sept. 30, 1959.

Conf.

2. UMWA-53, 9 Dec. 1959.

Secret

3. CUMWA-11, 10 Aug 1959.

Secret

4. DBF-28290, July 8, 1959.

Confidential

S. (UMVA) 65, 31 Dec. 1959.

Secret

PIEDRA

1. DBF 34752, 30 Sept. 1959. Conf.

2. Memorandum for Record by US Air Attache, Havana,

26 Oct. 1959. Secret

3.

CS 3/415,258, 15 Oct. 1959.

Secret

4. (NAVA, 3141, 5 January 1960.

Secret

See also

00-B. 3,138, 850

re testimony by former

attorney for Batista who

states Trujillo bled

Batista white and treated him like a

dog.

ADC

1.

2.

Memo, 1 Dec. 59

Memo

Pauley, Freyre Conv. 29 Nov. 59

SECRET

- 2 -

4/nu

---

## Page 15

SECRET

ADC (Cont.)

3. DBF-35528, 21 Oct. 59

4.

DBF-38863, 16 Dec. 59

5. DBF-35528, 21 Oct. 59

6. DBF-35528, 21 Oct. 59

7. DBF-37600, 30 Nov. 59

8. "DBF-35528, 21 Oct..59

MASFERRER

L. US Army Attache, Mexico, R-248-59, Aug. 7, 1959, Secret

2. DBF-24112-in 201/42669

3. DBF-04112, 22 July 1959. Conf.

27,16-18

4. (HEGA) 589 from(COS Ciuiad Trujillo,) 26 Aug. 1959. Secret

DIAZ TAMAYO

1. (Toomay memo for record. 1 Dec. 59

2. DBF-35722, 12 Oct. 59

3. Ci 65, 31 Dee- 59

4.

Memorandum of conversation,

5.

201-22162

Pauley,

9 Dec. 59

1.

2.

Penetration

Havana, Radio Progreso, 15 Aug. 59, FBIS, Unclas.

FBI Report, unnumbered, 21 Apr. 59, Desk File 19-5-1

SECRET

- 3 -

5 /nú

---

## Page 16

Penetration (Cont.)

22

NKHA - 5666,

DBF- 32667,

Sep.

59

4. DBF-23997, 18 May 59

5. Castro penetration file (ours)

SECR

-4 -

T

---

