104-10059-10047|

SL.
; :
= Soames erarestoouls MENT <3 ee : Boe a knee ap
: Memorandum me - ;
To +: Chief, SRS. : “pate: 9 October 1967
. Thru : DC/SRS and C/FIOB/SRS .

FROM = M, D. Stevens oa ae ean

SUBJECT: CAIN, Richard S. . : :
12 14h ee : es wate rear

| 1,. Reference is made to the attached 5 June 1967 DCS memo~
xandum on Subject, which in turn made reference to previous DCS
memoranda on him on 24 and 25 May 1967.and to an Office of Security
} memorandum dated 29 May 1967; The 5 June 1967 memorandum »...
:, 3 j enclosed copies of several 1963/1964 documents from the Chicago
~ i Field Office's file on CAIN, which ADC/PSD forwarded to SRS with’
7 jee comment that "It appears DCS is cleaning out their files re Lee
| Harvey OSWALD, et al." ! :

2. Subject, itis obvious, had been a source of information
‘ regarding an alleged discussion of the assassination of President
coos | Kennedy at’a secret meeting of the Fair Play for Guba Committee
| held in Chicago in February 1963 under the direction of Richard
{ GRILEY (#346 116). He also was the source of information regarding
| the alleged attempted recruitment into the Communist Party of young
} Cubans in the Chicago area by one Guillermo ESCOBAR, who accord~
| ing to the Chiéago office was "one of| (SAS) leads
{ obtained from Ralph PEREZ." (Presumably Ralph PEREZ, #444260)
| SPEED is #199499, ‘The documents also indicated
‘ that in February 1964 CAIN was the subject of a conversation initiated
| by Eldon S.. GOHEN, #38557 o/c, with a representative of the DCS
Chicago office who believed his purpose was to learn whether or not
CAIN was in fact on a two-month's sick leave from the COOK Gounty
Sheriff's office, as he was said to be, or was on a political under
} cover assignment which CCHEN inferred involved tapping the tele~
| phones of gubernatorial candidate Charles H. PERCY and other
i -political figures. .

aw T

donriag 3d
eduanatn



14-00000

3. During review of GAIN's Security file, I noted a message
regarding him from Mexico City, on 25 April 1962, which mentioned
a" Willara ANDREWS, reputable American businessman in Mexico," .

who obviously had had contact of some kind with GAIN; as well as with
a CIA representative in Mexico to whom ANDREWS had commented that
CAIN claims to have been with OSS during W. W. II (Acopy of this memo-
yandum is attached). In answer to this message which requested traces
on CAIN, Headquarters, in farnishing mited information obtained regard.
ing him, advised that neither his claimed employment by OSS,-nor a claim
he made to have worked with Task Force W, could be substantiated. The
j Station was advised thet he did have (ox had had) & Tegitichate detective... |
} laboratory in Chicago. :

pie

|B. The Hrsttime CAIN came to the attention of the Secuxity Offise -:[--
| was when the Mexico Station xequested traces on him. heir request |
stemmed from an unannounced visit he made to the Station, during which
he stated that he had an investigative agency in Mexico with branches in ..""*
Chicago and Los Angeles. He had also stated that his agency in Mexico :_ |"
was for the purpose of training Mexican Government agents in police 2’ |]
methods, in investigative techniques, ‘and in the use of the He detectors “‘- . -j
and had added that he was investigating Cornmunism in 2 certain unnamed +
_Gentral American country. : ie

6. In June 1962, the Mexico Station aavisea that | caIN was being
depoxtea by the Mexican Ministry en Gobernacion for these violations:
a ‘Cssxying a ‘Joadea revolver and brass lameHes a
b. Impersonating a Mexican Government official
\ . (He.had identification as an investigator for the
H Mexican Treasury Office.) _
| ; c. Violating his tourist permit by working at his
1 "1" detective office and at the Mexican Treasury -
J rrr a . 7
; le
2 : 7,

SORT



14-00000

7. Subject was subsequently of interest to the DGS in September |
1963 when an ad hoc clearance was xequested to permit his being asked
+. [to respond to general requirements regarding his knowledge of certain
Cuban refugees and their potential for foreign positive intelligence. On
10 September 1963, the DCS was sent a memorandum which furnished
/much of the above information on CAIN.

8. On 22 May 1967, the Director of Security indicated that he!
had xeceived information from the FBI which ties Subject to the

in Chicago; |and he dizected that the DCS be contacted for information
las to whether or not they ever established contact-with him and, if so,
lor what purpose. The DGS was also to be advised that, if they were
contact with him, it was suggested that they break it off. On 25.
1967, the DCS advised that there had been no contact with CAIN’:
since 1963,. and furnished copies of eight reports for which Subject had

een the source of information. These had to do with anti-Castro Cuban|
ctivities, procurement of arms, etc.

9. -On 29 May 1967, Security advised the DCS that there ia a an
curvent FBI investigative interest in Subject and recommended that :
there be no farther contact with him at this time. = ;

“10, ‘The 1 September 1967 copy of Life magazine contains
article titled "BxazenlEmygize of Organized Grime, rere
stated that'Sam GANA} Head of the ChicagdCoza Nostze,

. running pees from a hide-out in Mico «= + Where
aa he poses #a RiccardoiSCALZET

i> The real SCALZETTI, GIANCANA's
rst while chauffeur ‘courier, | ‘ts more familiar to Chicagoans as

chara CAIN, a well known former Chicaga policeman and more recently
” a private investigator."



14-00000

15. There is attached a copy of the above referred to September 7"
articles in Life magazine, in one of which CAIN is described as the erst- |."
‘while’ chauffeur and courier of Sam GIANCANA.. The second of these .
articles makes reference to alleged friendly contacts of Jim GARRISON, »..””
of the OSWALD Case, with henchmen of the Cosa Nostra in the Louisiana
area. 5 at .

~~ Sie

M. D. Stevens ~

Attachments: articles

MDS/cer

aed oe
SECRET

