# 104-10169-10072

## Page 1

104-10169-10072

UNCLASSIFIED.

SUBJECT: (Optio

FROM:

D

INTERNAL

•'SE ONLY

J. CONFIPENTIAL

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SECRET

RID/CE

US

(Ghana)

NO.

050463ys

KX-1446

DATE

14 May 1963

to whom.

1.

CI STAFF 2C 35

DATE

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

RECD

fWDD

15 MAY 1963

TAN

3.

RID/CE

Attn:

5.

"RID/AN GA 50

"MIS

7.

B.

10.

GA-10 03-

amy son

17-5-63

TO:

PSB/USIA

18.

PORM

RID/FI 1D 4003

FIRE TITLE

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Frepraduce

FILE NUMBER

20-271141

paEvicus.

ADITION

[X]

SECRET

• CONFIDENTIAL

To hug 6 3

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

AN91

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECRET

1x-1446

15 MAY 1963

MORHO RAJI

SUBJECTE

JuBOIS, David

(MCCANNS, David Graban)

akas

Mac CANNS

Jife CANN

Jubject Forn Benttle, Vashinetos, ® Jarch 1025

Legal residence 31 Grace Court, Brooklyn 1, New York?

reportedly was on a two year cholarship to. Comunist

China Circa 19607, but left after eight months becaus

ho wan dinatisflod. As of the date of this information,

which came from a report dated 23 May 1961 Iron at un

evaluated source, Bubject was giving lectures in Anerican

Alterature at Cairo Univeralty, Calro, Egypt.

Included

with the report was a letter to the editor

of the Eryptian

carette.

The letter, signed "David DuBoIg" and supposedly

written

ance of the united

of the Republie of Cuba. "

It compared the United States

Govermenttroatnent of the racial problem in Ameries with

United Staten polloy toward Cuba.

It sald that the United

States Government applied the Communist label to young

Anertenn Negroon who refused to obey "the Intanous law.

and cunton that force then into second olan oitirenp

boonume of the color of their skin," And it went on to

mar that the sno tautlo waned to attack the revolutlonry

covernment of Yidol CASTRO. The lotter road in part:

Dompite the ability of the U. 8. Coverument to

find Individunl apologiuta among Amerioa'a

Negroes citaing to spent for our milllon,

Jot it be known thnt the grent mans of

Amorton 'n Negroes, vorking people, students

and honent Intolleotual, support

thie revolt

*sonary government of Fidol CASTIO and save

nupported it from Ito Inception.

In011 1 nano aboot M51A - PSA

1X- 1416

RID/CHI JMA/DM/1gb

Based on! CAIN 4676, 4 April 1082, NICA 10082, 83 May 1061.

SECRET FILE IN, 2012U/14/

---

