# 104-10013-10361

## Page 1

104-10013-10361

UNCEASSIFIED O

He Lan

SUBJECT: (Optional)

FROM:

INTERNAL

SECRET

USE ONLY

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

CO IDENTIAL

SECRET

EXTENSION

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and

building)

SCOTT

Whelo

DATE

RECEIVED:

FORWARDED

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

NO.

HMMW= 1219:3

DATER

417 Decl

COMMENTED

SECRET N

show from:

whom

ach' comment.)

7.

8.

Shaws

Goodpastur

Keenan

Carol

D'anto a Co. Ponl

396-

17/64

10.

ENOXTIDI

senato

GRANS

.12

61.0 USEDTIONOUS

EDITIONSH

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

NUERNALY

ISTOL SECRENLASSIELED

---

## Page 2

13-00000

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

PiP

TO

72521.0

Chief of Station, Mexico CIty

PROCESSING

ACTION

MARKED FOR INDEXING

MO INDEXING REQUIRED

ACCOM-

PLISHED

INFO.

FROM

Chief, WED

SUBJECT

RYBAT/

ACTION REQUIRED • REFERENCES

ABSTRACT

BACROFILM

We would like to take time out in our Investigation of the President's

assassination to aypraise the role of the Mexico CIty Station in the whole affair.

Since the early afternoon of 22 November 1963, Mexico City has been the only

major overseas reporter in the case. While this 1s partly dictated by the

facts of Lee OStArd's life, we have not overlooked the really outstanding per-

formance of Mexico City's major assets and the speed, precision, and perception

with which the data was forwarded. Here it was relayed within minutes to the

White House, ODACID, and ODENYY.

2.

YOur IlENVOY data, the statements of Silvia DURAN, and your analyses

were major factors in the quick clarification of the case, blanking out the really

ominous spectre of foreign backing:

3. We regret that we have been able to send you so little information in

return, but we have not been given much yet. We do know that Lee OSWALD denied

he had ever been to Mexico except for a jump to Mla Juana. We have quickly

screened the FBI report on the whole case but we do not yet have a copy for

retention. It does not compromise your sources. Basically, what the New York

Times has printed about the report is all true.

We have meanwhile been flooded with fabrications, of which the ALVARADO

story was the most troublesone. They are still coming in.

(CONTINUED)

Distribution:

0&1 - COS, Mexico City

96-716

CROSS REFERENCE TO

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

DATE TYPED

DATE DISPATCHED

13 Dec 1963

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

17259

HMMW -12193

HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBER

201-287248

his.

---

## Page 3

13-00000

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

ТОЛОВИКАТОН

SECRE

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER.

EMMN -12193

You have had good support from your liaison, but as usual the really

outstanding features were Mexico Station's Lamous generalshiy and the skill and

devotion of its personnel. Please convey our admiration to all who participated,

down to the last technician, translator, and monitor.

We know that the work

your Station did during the President's 1962 visit made you feel this tragedy

with particular keenness, as did we.

OLIVER G.

FORM

8.80

50c

USE PREVIOUS EDITION.

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

PAGE NO

2

COnTINUED

---

