# 104-10177-10187

## Page 1

10410177-10187)

....:

StONET

NOFORM CONTRICO CONTROL

14 Septenter 1962

Assistant Chief of Staff, Intelligence

Department of the Arry

Atta: ISR

PROds

Interagency fource Regletes

SUITECT: PANSQUS Bastiota, Vlotor

(SD-10237)

abas PAREÇUS y Entiota, Vlotor Manuel

DI20O Paneque, Major

Comandant DIsDO (var sane)

RETURN TO

Background Use Only

Do Not Reprodyce

1. Raference 18 mada to the requent dated 6 Angurt 1962,

subjact no scoro, those nize you desired chocked aéntuut tha

files of thia offico.

te tales contain toe following infor

astian concerting the Bub.eor of your remost.

2. Informtion provided by an untested sourcs on 15 Bop=

teubor 1960 indiented that viator Manol PANSQLE Entista (sar

mans Coumadante DIDCO) wad stout 5°g" tall, weighed about 180

pounda, and bad a sol1d muscular bulla, 11ght couplezion, sandy

bair and grey eyse.

subject was a friendly, aimle, but appar

ently vary abreud and dazaranod individual of boundleas energy.

subject was bom fi Holguin, Orienta Provinco, Caba, on 22 Sep-

tenbar 1918, Ile formal education vas ahort.

From 1934 until

1915a subject vorsod us a fari hand togetber with his father. In

1942 subject Ind four matha of military training at Escuela

Miltor, managua, Cuba, and then servel two yours an an Infantry

private at toe Military Basa, Maragua, Provinco of lavana, Cuba.

Palented fron military nervice in October 1944, ha foun employ

went an a waiter and bartender in various bar rooms 1s Holguin.

Eo vortud in thie flold unt1l 13 October 1956, the leet Ive years

as this parlod as a bartendar in the Cabaret Cusana Club, Holes.

latle 56111 employed at this Club, Bubjoct Joinad the 26t0 July

overent of Adol CADIRO, and to appointed chios of all clandestine

Botivity aga1not the ANTIBIA ragina for the liortbara Const of Ortente

Proviaca.

subject is arrasted by tho pollee of Dayano, Orlente

SECRET

NOFORM CONTENCO CONTAL

Lnen:21 did a7'3023i6

6:1030.028 128

---

## Page 2

SERST

Proviace, pentenced to aso mar is prison by the tribunal of ta

51ago de cuba for osaspiray againat the BilIsA rogles.

it servod

Alo sentenor and ma rolerand on 22 Horender 1957 Eubject mus

arrested the folloulag day by lle jurica de luerre of Balebano,

Havans Provlace, but ruleased duia rous days later.

Ou 27 November

1957 ho me appointed by tha castro organication,

"Jefe de Accion"

(Political actiou, sabotage and violent assaulta) for the Prorioce

of las Villado In Chis exacity,, Subject organizod a "Prout" on

the forth conat or las Villas, callod Columa lo, L Mnrcelo aulado.

"Columa Ho, 2" operatal 1a tha Sierra Baburanas (Harth Codot of

Lao VIlla) unt1l baglanine of Cozober 1950, vhen Che QUETARA and

anilo CISKrUDOS vita their columa entered the province. In October

1939, Dubject ma "Jare de Accion" for Ese Provinces of Pinar del

No, Envans aad ataras.

In taig capesty, subjoct ormnited habel

Aruy unita ln tbe mountain areas al Plot del ito, the Central area

of Matansas and tha area Last of Havana. Inia operution lasted tro

monthe (Novembar and Doceaber 1959), Fran 1 to 15 january 1999;

Bubject's ledguarters va locatod at ese Sporta Palaco of livans

and when Fidel CASTRO entered the City, SusJect turned over full

control of the city to hia leador. on 15 January 1959, Subject

we appointed Chief of the Ramlutione Amy Sty KIlltary Diatriet

of Havana. Be bold this post for 22 days. Then (beguning of Frch

1959) bo sas made "Jefe dol Onton Publiso en el Estado Mayor del

Ejereito Rebolde" (Chief of Public Order in the Genaral Start of the

Bobel Army), In April 1959, FIdel CASTRO appointod Subject to the

poot of chiar of the Rural Police for to eutire natiosal territory.

He ma elven full authority to aot un and orraise malitary schoolsio

for training of a modera runil police force.

Bubject proposed to 2

FIdel CASTRO the 1des of organialis the Cubis fural Polled on the 3

partar of the Royal Cenadian Mounted Police. In July 1959; Busject

establishod the firat Rral Folica Iratning School at the Finca Sar

Jaclato in Bahla Fonda, Provinco of Pluni del R10.

sub joct stated

that none af the inatructors tail boen associatad vith be Commiat

Party of Cuba... Subject sell cue posts of Chiaf ul Publie Order and.

oncurrently Chief di the Rural Police frog begnalng of April 195

1t13 9 Nonenber 1959. Ecover, toward the cod of October 1959

Fidel CAsERO, tboroughly disillusioned vity the anti-conist po-

11t1cal attitudo demonstrated by start srd stuienta of the Bahia

Harda Fural Polloo training school, dissolred it, asstened the start

teaching Jobs at feasant Militis schoole nod transferrod the studente

to Rabel Ary unite tron which they bad bees detached. This decialon

vas preceded by maarous Molent argusents betreen Subject and Fidel

CASTRO and convinced Bubject that CASTRO was following the Corniat

9 841498116

3-

---

## Page 3

1d-0n0d

SECRET

NOFORR CONTINUEE COMTEOL

11n8.

On 9 Momendor 1959, Subjoct me renovod from lla port an Chief

of Publio Order and Chles of Rural Polico. to ma given e "cateson

do oarrieso" nod appolared Alministrator deneral of the "Companio

Intor Aericans", a truet transport outerprias covering about 70% of

all Cuban truck trunsport roquiremento.

bubloct hold tnis position

urt11 29 August 1960, On 1 teptanbor 1960 trio saterpriso ma dio

solved'and a sou ono, called "'ulleres lucionales" sat up in 1to

place. subject na ando cenerd Adednistrator of bla enterprise.

Is spies of his prontent poultion, lubject decided to leave his com

try and so to the vaitod Statoo.

Ho escaped by & mall boat and was

picked up by a Aneriom Tankor aftar drifting for fourteen bours.

Fle gave no explanation for hla suddan docision except to say that he

Uld not agrue with the Conniot trend of Cuben rolltici. Subject

Latmad to be the loador of Moviniento Insurrectional de Recoupersolo:

OR « Insurrection Movement for the Recovary of the Revolution) 1i

Cuba: 1018 Movanant allogodly a foundod 1a LAs VIllas Province ty

soctor Orlando BORSON (BOACH) and Subject in 1959. At the begtonine

of september 1900 1t Joined the Allanza do Liberacion which mus orm-

Leed In the Ualted States by Doctor IUla CONTE AguerTO with Subject's

asslatance.

3. According to a report dated 21 Coptinter 1900, fron a Falrly

rallable source, Aroject tried to give the Impreasica that he vas

AgaLot tho CAMIRO poverment but In reuilty ma 5 Cutcy goverunent

Accordias to a report dated 6 October 1960 prepared by

another office of thie agency, westers of the stulent sroup at the

Jafversity of Havana reported tho precence in Mant of tho CAETRO

"Planta" anid to ba Departmento Investigativo del Sjercito lovo.

luctonario (DIT) asanta.

ono of these vas Subject.

The information

1n this report cone frou a lalted States sational vitu business cou

Facto 1a the Latlo Anerican areas.

An unrolunted report dated 13 March 1962, Indicated that

subject was the organizer of a hunger strika group und sue the first

skar at a rally to urga the United States to elv am to outlod

Bo advised tha audienco. that libe "Ilunger Strike to Deat"

bad taken place to abor tha Freaident of the laited Statos, that Cubana

vere villing to die in andle ir tbair right to defend Cuba from Co

served to or adds t200al Infozzatio concerning dubjact, Jou ara 5o-

Federal Bureau of Diveatigation, Duresu flle Mo. 105-92195.

- 3-

SCRAT

G4357

#9:': 1. ... 198

---

## Page 4

4-00009

+0= .o 100000

SECRET

HOTERY CECTENO CCITITT

De Dopartrant af State Inconiny Tolograa fron Havana 1o.

160%, antod 6 Octover 1910 (so alditional docunantatlor

avallable).

• Isalertion aaá Mlatumlization Servico (do additiona

ocmentation arallablo)

Departisent of the Aruy cussage fran USUBLA, Baynaa, Cuba

R: C-212, Autod 3 Doptonder 1960, sod USURMi, Havans,

CRuDe ER:

C-218, dated 13 Beptauber 1960.

e. Ofrico of Naval Intolllgance.

lo laahington Pout noumpaper, Dunday Issue datod 12 June 1960

agaana eoction "Parade", article titled "Foldier o

portime".

8 baoblnitom poot ra rarado aay 1aue dacol 10 m 390104

eagastae poctios

the Jov.

cuereué oao feterl tao sot lo enedator dodscatea iset thera 1a no.

• Fara. T contirna telecon of 7 August 1962 between 11:

d 133. Taylor of your offie

IE24-0152

RTD/C8: JA/NH/pbo

Based on: 201-266382*

de: 'IfliaISen

co-ai

- 4=

SECRET

NOFCCH CS.T".:0 GO1798

"S.2 !

tin ritt:

€*..*:

.a ias

---

