# 104-10107-10161

## Page 1

104-10107-10161

SSIFIED

SUBJECT: (Optional)

FROM:

C/WH/7/Ht

TO: (Oficer designation, room number, and

building)

DC/WH/7

OGC SU

*J: LITIGATION, CRIMINAL (It

NTERNAL

USE ONLY

UDC 681810

COL. IDENTIAL

SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

Agency Relationship with Herbert Itkin

EXTENSION

NO.

DATE

DATE

OFFICER'S

INMALS

RECEIVED

FORWARDED

COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whon

o whom. Drow e line across column affer each comment.

Attached is a copy of the

memo prepared by C/WH/7/CI

on the subject of Agency

contact with Herb Itkin.

2.

3.

4.

5.

6.

7.

8.

9.

10.

1T.

12.

13.

14.

15.

FORM

Mr. John K. Greaney

NGC - Tube:

BX-5 (Green)

JSw

JKG

610 USE PREMOUS

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

NTERNAI

SE ONLI

• UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 2

0ge 68.1870

MENORANDUM FOR & Chief,. 7H/FX

SUBJISCT

& Herbert Itin

There has been no Agency contact with ITI!. My

noccA," creT/asA ptated that ch flast deftaitaly never vom

In contact with hia.

BAy BOCCA'S sOUrCe Of Info on the DisolE"

Max BOLTE-ITIN & Company, sctlultled van MaX BOLT uad not

ITKIN®

2. Offices checked for possible contact, all of which

proved negative, were:

Office of security, Domestic Contacta

Service, Domestle Operations Diviaion, CA/3, CA/d, WHY and

CI/E

8A.

3.

On 13 May 1863 ITIN reported to DIA in San Junt

the resulte of his preting with DEJOlE, BOLTE, FIGNOLE and

INC BTEPHEN 10 their fornation of the Provetoml Haltian

Government In Badle formed 1n San Juan on 12 May & that

Irath bad been hired ky that sroup as 18n Attorney.

10 Juns 1963 ITKIN reglotered with the Department of State

as a foreign Agent for this group adding that he made a

personal loan to DEJOIE of $15,000.

A & May 1963 Menorandun of Conversation from the

Department: of State sets forth the resulta of an informal.

meeting (possibly helu on 28 April 1963) attended by Torreat

5, ABDUL (Officer lu Charge, HaLtion AffaIrE, State ARA/CRA),

DEJOIE, BOLTE, A (INT) BRODIE, ANd ITEIN, In Which DEJOIE

expressed his

political views, asked for U.8. mupport for

an Invasion of Halth, U.S. recognition of the Provialonl

Goverment 1n Endle, esc.

5. Appropriate documents substantiating above are

herewith attached.

03

C/wH/T/CY

18 July 1988

---

