# 104-10216-10110

## Page 1

104-10216-10110

DISPATCH

Chief, Special Affairs Staff

FAFO

coS,

Mexico City:

cos.

Madrid; COS, Ottawa;

Chiete WE and Chief,

FRON

Chief of Station, JAVE OkIE

SUBMET

TYPIC/Operational

ACTION PIQUERO RLIERLACES

_Status of ASTRUNK MAPRON Recruiting Effarts

Action Required: FYI

_ AMLASh-1

1200900

ACTION

VARRIS PI DURING

n9 19:0ve troute

074984.5009

HEADE WANTS ETSM

S.1 ABSTRACT

ALCON

1.

Three ASTRUNK operations, the foremost objective of each of

which has been to re-contact AMTRUNK-10 to broaden the base

of MHAPRON recruitment in the AlTRUNK project, have been mounted

In 1964.

Two of the three have been partially successiul but

to date AJICE-14, the ASTRUNK leader, has been unable to make

contact with AMTRUSK-10.

2. Oporation ASTRUNK VI was mounted in January 1961. Thig

was the operation in which AWTRUNK-9 and his family were ex-

filtratod.

The unexpected presence of AMTRUNK-9'g wife and small

children forced AMICE-14 to vacate the infil/exfiltration area

prematurely.

All three attempts to launch Operation ANTRUNK VII

in February were unsuccessful largely because of rough seas and

the resultant difficulty in towing the AMTRUNK Intermediate Craft.

The firefight with the patrol craft in the first stage of the in

filtration phase on Operation AMTRUNK VIII in March forced the

team to wait out the alert which their encounter had precipitated.

The team was able to emplace the AMLASH cache and to add to 1t

an OWL receiver with instructions and schedules for AWTRUNK-10

as well as additional S/W supplies for AMTRUNK-10 and -1l. An

S/W message containing the cache recovery plan was sent to

AJITRUNK-10 shortly after the team's return to the JWAVE area.

3. With one notable exception, the above failures and

partial successes have constricted the ANTRUNK effort toward

MHAPRON recruiting at least until AUICE14 should attempt another

be formed.

made to recruit

considerable influence in civil and military aviation and the

clandestine aspects thereof. To this effort, ANTRUNK-13, a close

friend of

to seize the opportunity to throw l

]for over 20' years, will be sent to Mexico City.

Ja recruitment pitch

during & Cubana turnaround flight.

Discussions at JAWAVE between

Distribution:

09-6-5413

DATE TYPED

DATE DISAATCHED

Ma - C/SAS,

APR 17 1964

l ea. - COS,

MaXT

CS. COPY

9 Apr 64

COS

MADR & CROSS AEFERENCE TO

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

SOSE

OTTA

CWH

DES AS ELE

UFGA- 15196

NEAD VARTERS PE NUMBIN

19-684/3

•LATION

SECRET

223

---

## Page 2

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

SECRET

DIBFATCH SYNDOL AND N

UFGA-15198

Lawrence F. BARKER of the MEXI Station and Irving Ne PEGGINS

have paved the way for AMTRUNK-13's handling and salchouring

in Mexico City while he awaits his recruitment opportunity.

Through the excellent cooperation of MEXI, MADR and OTTA Stations,

JIVAVE has been able to maintain a precise log and to establish

somewhat of a pattern of

flight schedule.

By virtue

of the fact that, during February and arch,

made four

flights to Mexico City, it is presumed that AMTRUNK-13 should

have the opportunity to attempt to recruit

within two

weeks of his (ANTRUNK-13's) arrival in MEXI. The false documents

which show AMTRUNK-13 as a PBPRIME citizen nearly are completed

and ANTRUNK -13 should bo dispatched to MEXI within 10 days. In

false docunents for. AuICE-ll's

trável have also been requested.

0. 1m a07

will be restrictea.ro.

a subsequent intiltration attempt by AMICe-11 Is still in limbo.

The AMTRUNK case officer, Reuben A. HANNULA, 18 currently Investi

gating several leads for

a subsequent two man infiltration team

.to expand BHAPRON recruiting efforts under, the ASTRUNK project.

END OF DISPATCH

CASHITED

---

