# 104-10178-10101

## Page 1

104-10178-10101

CLASSION DO FILE NO.

PILE RIO DOT. TO

DESTROY

D.1o.

DIBBEN DY

ACP.BOR

oRAseN U

CLASSIFILD MESSAGE

TOTAL COPIES

SECRET

REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROMISITED

NOTIFICATION TO L

ADY.

COPY

SI:BUED 901980 00. 11.

VIS INHAN

fie?

i figin i

Imes copr.

17-5

EDitorkind

SECRET 291038Z APR 6S CITE

9432

DEI DOI 70-17

PRIORITY DIRECTOR INFO

RTBAT WOMUSE SECUR

12-1

REF& DIRECTOR 93162

1. AIR FORCE INTELLIGENCE ADVISES THAT MAJ. BERNARD

ACTION

3#00056

REHKOPF, USAF ASSIGNED TO MACTHAI, HAS BEEN IN TOUCH

ASKING ASSISTANCE IN CONTACTING AN LNERGO

OFFICIAL.

RENKOPF CLAIMS THAT MIS DAUGHTER RITA, WHO FORMERLY

WORKED IN BANGKOK FOR LAW FIRM AND IS NOW BASED IN

NEW ORLEANS WITH DELTA AIRLINES, HAS TELEPHONED HIM FROM •

12130 0us 5et.

at 1435.

Him Oil?

NEW ORLEANS APPROX EIGHT TIMES IN LAST SEVERAL NIGHTS. SHE

STATES SHE IS IN THE HANDS OF LNERGO. SHE. CLAIMS THAT SHE

KNEW JAMES EARL RAY AND SAYS SHE KNOWS HE WENT TO LONDON.

SHE FURTXER CLAIMS THAT LNERGO IS PAYING FOR HER PHONE CALLS,

AT THE SAME TIME IMPLYING, AT LEAST AS FAR AS REHKOPF IS

CONCERNED, THAT SHE IS UNDER A CERTAIN AMOUNT OF DURESS.

P, N0

20 REHKOPF IS VERY DISTRAUGHT AND CONCERNED FOR

DAUGHTER'S WELFARE. AIR FORCE ADVISED HIM THAT THEY WOULD TR

TO PUT LNERGO IN TOUCH WITH HIM.

THEY HAVE ASKED HIM NOT TO

DO ANYTHING DRASTIC, SUCH AS SURFACING MATTER TO THE PRESS,

so lit

SECRET

RECORD COPY

272n. u5. 1

241-4533737

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

---

## Page 2

CLASSIFIEO MESSAGE

d-f:"

iSCRET

INCASTE PAGE 22

17-9

PAGE 2

9432 SECRET

AND THEY ARE REASONABLY SURE THAT HE WILL COMPLY, AT LEAST

FOR THE PRÈSENT.. HOWEVER, HE WANTS ASSURANCES FROM

ND

LNERGO THAT DAUGHTER IS BEING WELL TREATED AND IS IN ON

DANGER.

3. RECOMMEND MAS ADVISE LNERGO HAS FOR ACTION AS

APPROPRIATE, SUGGEST MANILA ALSO PASS GIST OF ABOVE TO LEGAL

ATTACHE. THERE IS OF COURSE, POSSIBILITY THAT RITA MERELY NAS

AN ACTIVE IMAGINATION MER REPUTATION WHILE HERE WAS

THAT OF FLIGHTY AND IMMATURE PERSONALITY•

SECRET

X-PASSEICI

PEAL TAFT

77441.4495

SECRET

---

