# 104-10009-10128

## Page 1

104-10009-10128

sazi

---

## Page 2

13-00000

Review Date September 1970

Document No. 971

XAAZ-17367

22 May 1964

Yes

RELEASE TO PUBLIC?

No

Commente

Date

Mr. Dooley

ren

OUT. AUS MARIANS

THEDOLBY

LETTER DE NEV

Th': (010072) AGRES

ABIDE BYTHEIR

MOS MET, SHOULOBE

1080070

10016-75

Mr. Rocca

-

Mr. Karamessines

Mr. Helms

---

## Page 3

13-00000

Document No.

971

XAAZ-17367

22 May 1964

Yes

No

RELEASE TO PUBLIC?

Insufficient

Knowledge

Commenta

Mi. Dooley

Date

1AU65

3AGE

Mr. Hall

Ma. Haulman

Monterply

Mr. Rocca

Mr Spera

Me Whitten

Mi . Karamessines

Mr. Helms

П..EN.E....-

la voter""

---

## Page 4

13-00000

SECRET

WARMING NOTICE

SENSIT,

'SOURCES A

METHODS INVOLVED

DD/P. 4:2624.

f: MMY 154

DURICATE - 07:

XAAZ-1367

MEMORANDUM FOR: ME. J. Lee Ranila

Means Tello

kennis ERa

Comed la Fabiny 1964, velative 80 flet

serves inade by ClA.

8a. On 16

reporting a

chostenr for the Sovlet 51

we desi

Jenn DoerE

on the sonalbility thrt the Sevlet C

will til

15 October 1967.

Positoria pa pacele 012019 cale from Many a to ti

a, Gabled to Cambors asking len et

nie ni Che

Nota had ads

previounty known of the 196z dele

in thie

SECRET

GBOUP 1

Excluded trom automatie

daungrading and

declassification

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE SOURCES AND

METHODS INVOLVED

---

## Page 5

13-00000

WARNI.

NOTICE

SENSITIVE SOURCES AND

METHODS INVOLVED

D. Tha CIA Stallen la Condorra, on 39 Moramber, farniahod

all svallable Informatios on the 1962 talophone eall. I eppears

that vonres on thit occasion stated that "Tren Curtain Com ries"

pompo to pay o hundred thossand dollars for the sosasataction

of President Kennedy.

0. On 2V November, the CA Canberre Station alre forulotied

complete detail en the anonyone tolophens enll of 11 Moverber 1961.

emplied by is Ganborre Salien, to the Waite Home, Depen

of state, end Foderl Burns a techgalien, with a copy to tie

Seeral Servico, A copy ol this discertain in its exact teal

so sached to the smoran.

do The ClA Station in Canteres arranged fee Alecuselos of the

cale with th

In the epinlan of the

Anstrollon eurorzoo, as cauor was a crabli. to any event. thay

mere not able to bonity any Pollat employee of the Hovlet Smbanay.

Do cetomoble dressibes by tho color se the ens 20 demo, te

Aconco pints asmter yien by hin. No further loforastien on this

call Ano boon rosalved. Avallable ovidens mona tend to don Cit

the callo mo somo type of erent. This cretate, tover, annot

be centivasd.

$. Please noto that the mature of the information In thre

memorando and lls stocament roguires the ne of e senolllity

Andleator.

Richard Helen

Deputy Director for Plane

Machmeas

SECRET

Excluded from astomatic

daungrating and

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE SOURCES AND

METHODS INVOLVED

---

## Page 6

13-00000

SECRET

WARD 'G NOTICE*.

SENSITIVE SOURCES AN•

METHODS INVOLVED

OVT Teletypo No. 85691, datod 29 November 1967, Illed as IllY hoars,

to tho White House, Dopestment ol Sinte and Federal Barons of

Ivergetion, wilh a copy to the Secrel Serviee

l. Son attention la called to a series of annymous telephane

callo mado to the ortice of the U.S. Naval Attache la Comberre.

santeall, by a man cialishag to Asre hod lowledgo shout a Bovie.

plot to secacainte to late Prondon Bernody. Cur fires record

ot tilo mitor lo o Moval Altacho cole from Gunters cout on

24 Nevember 1068.

2o I appears that the callor, who professes to ba the Foliah

ensufens of e Sortet Embarry car in Canborn, firel phoned la

ovor a yess ago, on 15 Octater 1962 ropoal 196t. Al that tane be

onla a story about tire Sortet subrarinee corning 400 to 500 corlet

soldiers en thotr vay to Cuba, One parpose of this treep movemen.

ho sato, vas do cupport the Goreror of Mismanippl, Fla added that

Shers vo a pis to pay one baniaoe Consant dollars to Lil Prostat

Hennady. Behind tho plot, he said, vero the "Irn Curtale Comerles,"

on omnis man brand. My for at probly some cher

eemntedoe."

3, On 29 November 196) repant 1963, the day after the

comestmation of E rostet Kenedy and over a year sier the fret

selophone call, & man boliavod to bo the same persos phoned the

Embassy agnin und spoto do the nanstant Naval Altacho, The caller

referred to hila call e year bach and sinted he and salld that the USER

hai pus op 100, 000 dollars fu, the assasslestos of Praldont Kendy.

A. Olving what la claimes mers further detallo sbou the

nonsolnetich, the caller sold that abert two veste before (which

would have been in early Morember 1963) ho was present shen a

Astralas mas, 13 to 10 jeare Old, and tall, was diepatshed 0y

tho Doviote to tre Untted States carrying a case abomi 15 to 10

cantimeters lang, 50 centimatero bigh, and 8, 5 emutluetore side.

The name Vosyl Two was used in some connection with thle man.

Elo was put on e plane in Spinay and walle the emiler drove the tea

Soviot escenta back to Canberra, thole shortave raélo la the eas

was going courtantly. A chorave rodie wao seing in the Eastsesy

REED

SEGRET

GROUP 1

Excluded from actematio

downgrading and

declassificalled

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE SOURCES AND

METHODS INVOLVED

---

## Page 7

13-00000

W' 'NING NOTHE

SENSIVE SOURCES!

METHODS INVOLVED

In von thy entred there. Over tanoe rudios, mue of these sovlet

transmitted mambers and "polats." They ramalued ta the Enhaney, an

that merelay (apparently 21 Hoverber 1963), e massage earne through

m lonels pore dranh In Ranalen Vodka and the Rasclane present sold.

" have anhloved want we want."

5. The enlter thes guve "information" about the feviet rele

in ething s Ul.&. Novy unctear submarine and on sovtel sabreraten lis

tadomats, He vola no identity Almselt, and shra ho doscribad the

enr he entren fao a mavy blas 1952 Batels, lestte piate Naw Doth Fates

CGO (12z) Do added they olton ebungo plates, here illy onto is reservo.

and oen elange them in five seconde.

di. The caller addad some vagne information abore a vermon

employce ol the Americ Antacu ho tinto verto for the Series.

The converslion consluded eith the calter promining to write a letter

to to Naval Attacho al the Amorters Enhassy.

7.. The calter spote good auglish sns ble acoars and volce eld

not chango thraghost the coverstion, on it win serumed tat he

mo nut elagateing blo piter.

B. Anstralisa nstortilos vertiza on tile cass considar tha

enlion to bo a cent. Thay ninto that Sortet offleso In Anstrallo

in her stale

do sat use saything bas soviet chauffeure: they have so recond of

thots urug a Pollah chaufour. They are constantry their investigation.

• L6N21

GROUP 1

Excluded fron artomatic

downcrading and

deciassilcation

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE SOURCES AND

METHODS INVOLVED

---

## Page 8

13-00000

SECRET

W "NING NOTE

SENS., IVE SOURCES ND

METHODS INVOLVED

GulpinnI & 1 - 10900

3 * DDP

1- CALA

1• CURRATRI

6BOW 1

SECRETI

Excited trom autematic

dewagrading and

declassificatios

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE SOURCES AND

METHODS INVOLVED

---

