# 104-10172-10217

## Page 1

104-10172-10217

14.

SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

ISTRUCTIONS

PRIOR TO FILING

1. Feil da Seas. 2.

clap and demard to RID.

of back. Detach back

2. Destroy froni cover shoot, unless it

records significant action idion cr

conceals requiring preservarie.

FROM:

RID/A+

RID/AT - 6

emy

TO

ROOM

но.

DATE

15 6 45

BOAT

L C4S

TO: ASTRON BRANCH

IS 1110 r0: 1-5::905 A J-e sot

propor,

inser: proper file

below

PROPERTILENO.

TO ALL ADERESSCES

FILL IN SECTION;

1.3

Material concerning the (anTiDa

doubta of AstAtors bonarides

13 Miled in AZUES 201 held by

SR/CI/I.

Reference 539 ortginated by DC/CI.

ecision requestal l Squires:

cannot, bs made ly Sa/CI/& decans

@juities in case unknown.

0.K

Tall E

for

Teletape to Murich

*.EGM.W-13377

RETURNTO

Background Usa Only

Noi Reproduce

Heat

4

3.

7.

9.

11.

12

1]L

sea /K/Becky

15.

16.

87.

RID/FI

TRACE

REQUEST

ABSTRACY

DATE NICROTILNCO

FILE TITLE

DOEUMENT DATE

FOR FILING

(AELADLE Project)

CODE:

63124

4/pV

---

## Page 2

14-00000

DISPATCH

witter,

Ei

CHIEF OF STATION

GERMANY

CHIEF OF BASE, FRANKFURT

CHIEF

MUNICH LIAISON BASE

SUBJECT OF REPLE LADLE

SEE BELOW

SECREI

xXX

NO INTERE MISMO

COS ROUTE MA208: M

201-732482

A MEETING ON 27 SEPTEMBER 1963 ALIAS FLEMING NOTEL

SUBJECTES ARREST AND STATED THAT HE AND HISCCATIDEJCOLLEAGUES HAC

WONDERED WHETHER AELADLE HAD PROVIDED THE LEAD. O| HE WENT ON TO

STATE THAT AELADLE'S BONA FIDES WAS STILL A MATTER OF CONJECTURE

*ITH CATIDE DIAND THAT CONFIRMATION OF MIS ROLE IN SUBJECTE

WOULD DISPERSE THESE DOUBTS AND LEAD TO A RE-EVALUATION OF

THE AELADLE INFORMATION IN CATIDE 'STPOSSESSION.

REFERENCE GAVE PERMISSION TO INDICATE KNOWLEDGE OF

SUBJECT'S CASE BUT DID NOT SPECIFICALLY STATE THAT WE COULD

REVEAL AELADLE'S ROLE.

PLEASE ADVISE IF WE MAY CONFIRM TO ALIAS

FLEMING THAT AELADLE WAS RESPONSIBLE FOR SUBJECT'S ARREST.

ROBERT R. SCHRIEVES

APPROVED-

WHITNEY T. NEALE

DISTRIBUTION=

BY

TAPE

2 - C/EE

2

• COS/G

2 - FOB

CROSS REFERINCE TO

_CS COPY

DESSA TON STREBOR AND NUMBER

E6M4-63124

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

6976-496/3

EST FT 1S9

12:3: 1; 218

DATE

8 OCTOBER 1953

IÇS FLE ALIMBER

(7476-49613

23:

6/n0

---

