04-10147-10002

“WNTERNAL USE ONLY

ADDENDUM TO JOURNAL
OFFICE OF LEGISLATIVE COUNSEL

Thursday - 6 July 1978

1. (Confidential - MMP) LIAISON Accompanied Scott
Breckinridge, Special Coordinator for the House Select
Committee on Assassinations, OLC, and Rodger Gabrielson,

OLC, to brief Thomas K. Latimer, Staff Director, House
Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, on the state of
play as between the House Select Committee on Assassinations
and the Agency. Mr. Latimer immediately understood that the
crux of the pro@lem lay in the House Select Committce on
Assassinations possible exposure of sensitive information
(Nosenko and/or Mexico operations) in open fora. He said
that he would brief Chairman Edward P. Boland (D., Mass.),
House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, and that
the latter might discuss the matter with Chairman Louis
Stokes (D., Ohio), House Select Committee on Assassinations.
He suggested that the best approach would be for the DCI to
raise the issues we were concerned about with Chairman Stokes
and, then, if necessary with the President. The latter in
turn could register his concerns with Speaker of the House Thomas P.

- O'Neill. Mr. Latimer said that the House Permanent Select Committee

on Intelligence charter precluded the House Permanent Select
Committee on Intelligence from playing a significant role in
this matter.

é

2. (Confidential - DFM) LIAISON Received a call from
Spencer Davis, Senate Select Committee on Intelligence staff,
who asked for the phone number of former Agency employee
Newton S. Miler, as one of the Committee staff members wanted
to interview him. June, 0/PCS/LOC/DDO, subsequently called
Miler and, in his absence, left a message that he call Davis.
I informed Davis this was how we had handled his request and
he was satisfied.

_ I also explained to_Davis the A ency's position regarding
retired Agency employee who was Chief of Station
m1

= land upon retiring took a position as a-consultant
tothe Saudi Governmen Qur position is that as has
retired; the Agency kas no control over his activities other
than through his secrecy agreement which he signed and which
remains in effect. Davis also asked me if the same situation
was true for a former Chief of Station in jand,*I said I
would check. eas

Lparre ‘He Yat MPIARAPTT!
‘INTERNAL. USE GNLY, CONFIDENTIAL

