# 104-10119-10244

## Page 1

104-10119-10244

SFCKET

THRU :

THRU:

Chief. SRS

Deputy Chief, SRS

Chief, FIOB/SRS

M. D. Stevens

Svetlam STALINA

• 505112

25 April 1967

1. Reference is made to the attached clippings regarding

Svetlana STALINA, which reflect that the editor of the book she has

written le to be Evan Welling THOMAS, ind, the son of Norman

THOMAS; and that its translator is Mrs. Priscilla Johnson Mac-

MILLAN, aka: Priacilla Masy POst JOHNSON, # 71589 Dle who in

also currently working on a book with Marina OSWALD, widow of

Lee Harvey OSWALD. The then Priecilla JOHNSON was of interest

in the OSWALD care, In that she met Lee Harvey OSWALD and inter-

viewed him in Moscow soon after his arrival there and renunciation of

his U. S. citisen hip. Aftor the assassination she wrote a number of

articles about him.

2. Priscilla JOHNSON' fle makes no mention of her marriage

to George MACMILLAN, a freo lanco wilter, and no check on him has

been made. She man Security disapproved for stuff employment in 1953

because of her questionable associations and activities, and in 1956 a

request for her clearance as a legal traveler in the USSR (Spotter) war

cancelled by CI/OA when a summary of information regarding her was

furnished that office. Sheñas again of operational interest in 1958, bat

the Division again cancelled. She was granted a covert security approval

on 3 May 1963 to permit SR to debrief her concerning her contacts while

In the Soviet Union.

3. STALINA' lawyer is EdwardS. GREENBAUM, 1 354817, re-

garding whom no summary has ever been prepared but whose reference

cards indicate the possibility of question an to his political sympathies.

GREENBAUM also represente Harper and Row who will publish STALINA's

book and who also publimbed William MANCHESTER's Death of a President,

which was edited by the above referred to Evan THOMAS who is the Subject

of # 164032. His file, which latls to indicate that his father in Norman

THOMAS, reflecte that in 1957 he was associated with Harper Brothers

SECTRI

Excluded lisa automatio

downgrasin?. and

doclassi.c.fico

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECRET

and was the subject of a request for a Covert Security Clearance to per-

mit his sse on OKENCHANT. However, the divialon cancelled prlos to

the issuance of the clearance seguested for him. A chock on him at the

FBI at Rhat time was NIC. In August 1961, Evan THOMAS was agala of

interost se one of the individuale at Harper Brothers who were to be ln-

terviewed regarding a book which Pawal MONAT, I 166824, intended to

publish, which was highly critient of CIA and the FHI. It war hoped that

publiestion of the boak could be stopped but there is ne indication in

THOMAS'& OS lue as to whether it was or sot.

".

Alan Uriel SCHWARTZ, # 168207, a 35 year old partner in

the law firn GREENBAUM. WOLFF, and ERNST. ! LE 6832, who 86-

companied STALINA to New Yorks, was of Interest to WH/II in February

1958, at which time it was indicated that he was employed by Morris 1:

ERNST in GREENBAUM, WOLFF, and ERNST. Edward S. GREENBAUM

¡o a senior partner ln this firm, as aloo la Morris L. ERNST. $ 167982

and EF 6832-A. There lo much seriously derogatory Information on

ERNST, Incisding the fact that in December 1939 he attended & secret

meeting at Communist Party headguartere in Chicago, Minoia, at which

time he was identified as the Counsel of ACLU in New York City. Alan

SCHWARTZ, who apparently ws brought into GREENBAUM, WOLFF.

and ERNST by Morris L. ERNSI, la said in the 1967 volume of Martindale-

Hubbell to be a graduate of Yalo University Lew School, to have written

Censorship-the Search for the Obacene with Morris ERNST, and to have

been Counsel to the Radio and Televinion Committee of ACLU since 1959.

It ln interesting to note that in March 1958, Security recommended againat

ERNST's use in connection with the GALINDEZ Case; and that WH/III'a

interest in SCHWARTZ, at the same period of time, war

"to review some Cuban government flles in comection with (a)

case being handled by firm of C-68017." A notation on CHOA! request

for a PCSA on SCHWARTZ read. "On 24 Feb. '58 Mr.

Cl/On advieed that upon Subject's return to New York City, the appro-

priate division will contact him there on a flirly continuing basie. "

There le no further Indication In SCHWARTS's file an to what use has

been made of him. SCHWARTZ in 1957 was regintered se an Agent of the

Dominican Republic In connection with his employment by Morris L.

ERNST, Special Counsel for that country, and he was alno registered some-

time during the period 1955-1959 as an Agent of the Dominican Repablic

in connection with his association with a William H. MUNSON.

6. HILL and KNOWLTON, "s publie relations firm coordinating

the publicity attending Mrs. ALLISLUYEVA's arrival her." la the sub-

ject of Security (les $ 162356 and & EE 13791.. This firm, which in said

SECRET

21BR

---

## Page 3

SECRET

to be one of the largest public relations firmo in the world, was of interest

In November 195T and again in May 1960 in connection with peralotent re-

POrtE that lI sopresente the interest of the Japanese Socialist Party !a

the Unlted States. In November 1957, the Prime Minioter a Japan wal

attempting to find out whether or not the report. were valld, and in May

1960, FE/JAO/OPS advised that that office main receim of information

that the firm was rogistered with the Department of Justice an as agent

• the relala Pp the petty of re ladded tato matoo do to a tataro

time, Security advised that HILL and KNOWLTON, Int. had aesumed

control of Edward W. HARRETT and Associates, Inc.. A public relation.

counseling firm, in March 1955; that this firma served a publie relationa

counsel for the Office of the Consulate General of Japan from October

1953 to March 1955, and that HILL and KNOWLTON had continuod thie

relationship "to the present time" (January 1958). 'It was noted that HILL

and KNOWLTON alao represented the Suer Canal Company, the Soclote

do L'Exposition Universelle el International de Bruxellen, and the Develop

' mant Beard of the Bahamas. In 1956 the firm annoanced the formation

of a new publle relations firm HILL and KNOWLTON INTERNATIONAL

with headquastere In The Hague and olfices in Düsseldorf.

7.. The only reference in Security Indicon to HARPER and ROW.

publishoreof STALINA'a book, la that in two indices cardo, coples of

which are attached.

8. The individual who appears to be masterminding STALINA'"

vlait to thin country and the publiention of her book la George F. KENNAN.

$ 31889(0 & C), former U. S. Ambrasador to the Soviet Unien. It wan

he who recommended Priscilla Johnson MAcMILLAN to HARPER and

ROW an one of five Russian-speaking experts. Mr. KENNAN seems to

be acting in concert with Edward S. GREENBAUM, who became STALINA:

personal counsel after visiting her in Switserland.

M. D. Stevena

Attachments - 2

Att 1 - Clipping.

Att 2 - Coples of 2 Indices carda

MDS: a pl

3

---

