# 104-10183-10144

## Page 1

104-10183-10144

27

GLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

AMOHIP

-ROUTING

FROM

ACTION

NO

CAR IS J 15-41

WH/SA 8

DCI, D/OCI,EX OIR, DOP,

CI/OPS, Ci/SC 2. FL,

•VR, FILE.

AD/CT 2, AD/NE:

SECRET 8314147

Zony

NOV 4: 03822, 64

IN 16442

DIR INFO WAVE CITE (PARI) 7388

INTEL

SUPDATA:

•FILED:

8314142

•22

REPORT CLASS SECRET NO FOREICT DISSES 979-14485: COUNTRY: CUBA

SUBUECT: STATEMENTS SY CUSAN AIGISSIDOR TO FRANCE CONCERNING POSSIBLE

CUBAN CONCESSICNS TO U.S. FOR IMPROVED RELATIONS

•DOl::

PADA:

SOURCE:

I NOVEMBER 1954

FRANCE, PARIS ( 2 NOVORSE- I9UI)

CUBAN BUSINESSIAAN IN EXILE AND: TRAVELS ABROAD FREQUENTLY AND

HAS COOD ACCÉSS TO GUS: ET LOMATIC INSTALLATIONS FROM

• CARRILLO.

SOURCE'S REPORTING HAS DEIN LIMITED.

I COMMENT:

NO GIESEMIAAF SO DE THE ATTACHIT

RELLASING I WO

TOCS

ROUTiNI

BASIO CA

LIASON

RIPRODUETION BY OIMIR TIAN IS:CAN DADE IS PRONNTIO..

---

## Page 2

(When rital 80)

SECRET

COUNTEE

DATE OP

INFO

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

Intelligence Information Cable

ToCS

DISTIL

- SULÉCT

pastin

PLACE&

DATE ACQ

SOURCE

AND

APPRAISAL:

REP

FELD REPORT NO.

FI. 16442

1. ANTONIO CARRILLO CARRERAS, CUSAN AMBASSADOR TO FRANCE, 1S

INTERESTED IN PURSUING POSSIBILITIES FOR IMPROVING CUBAN-U.S. RELATIONS.

HE HAS REMARKEO PRIVATELY THAT ONE OF THE CONCESSIONS WHICH. CUBA COULO

CONSIDER TO IMFROVE RELATIONS INVOLVES THE GUARANTEED PURCHASE BY THE

•U.S: OF ONE MILLION TONS OF CUBAN SUGAR ANNUALLY. UNDER THOSE CIRCUM-

STANÇES CUSA WOULO BE PREPARED TO APPLY APPROXIMATELY 20 PER CENT OF THE

PROCEEDS TO INDEMNIFY U.S. COMPANIES WHOSE PROPERTY HAS BEEN EXPROPRIATED

BY THE CUBAN GOVERNMENT. SIMILARLY, PAN AMERICAN FLIGHTS TO CUBA,

WHICH CARRILLO CLAIMS WERE NOT ENDLO SY CULA, COULD BE RESUMED:

MANHILE, SABOTAGE EFFORTS BY, THE U.S., SUCH AS THOSE DIRECTED

SECRET

Handid ea

8IA10/M08 DIA DANTIACS MATT AIR ME SCOLI MUA MA ME VIA DEA DAN ORA ON 00

---

## Page 3

SECRET

TOC

AGAINST TRUCKS WHICH RECENTLY REACHLO CUBA, MOULO HAVE TO CEASE.

2. FIELD DISSEMS AMBASSADOR BOHLENESTATE

PACE

16442

2

CASSACATION - ANIMATIMES SAS

SECRET

---

