# 104-10164-10099

## Page 1

104-10164-10099

hai ,

10/09/ 09

SECRET

- FRPg:

ON: LA-J3 12878. INFO: FILLe VRA

LSN/IDe

PCS/INT=5.

SIA®

INTEL

DDO-R, L/PCSI CI-A, EPS/EG-E.

IIDP

SIAIFLA

SIA/IC+

(37/A)

SOTD.Y

78.0566284

PAGE

001 OF 001

TOR?

281740Z FEB

78

IN 0360244

35627

SECRE T 201715Z FEB 78. INTEL

CITE

35621

TOS DIRECTOR INFO LAIMIAMI..

WNINTEL INTEL KMSTONE

SUPDATA!

SOURCE:

WKDIET/rKDIET-5 DIRECTLY AS DESCRIBED IN

35583•

OD OBJECTIVE&

FILE DEFERRED.

CL BY 013533.

FBLED!

2017152

•UERI

RECORD COPY

SECACT

Tlpo 599192

2l Pat ?1

Mleol9l lrvlt

---

## Page 2

#t260

SECRET

Intelligeace Information Cable

BUT NE E

IN 060038€

PAGE

00: eF doa

FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO

CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.

STATE/INR JCSIMC(DIA) CIMINACE SSAID FAI

(STITAGY SUS NSA TREAS SDO CHARD COPIES TOS NSCIS

NFAC WHITRM SECUR DDA DOST OSI D/OMS OCRI

DIRECTORATE OF

OPERATONG

that m da 1145 ₴

THIS IS AN INFORMATION REPORT. NOT FINALLY EVALUATED INTELLIGENCE

WEPORT CLASS SEE REY WNINTEL-NOFORN-NOCONYRACY

CITE

DIST '2O FEN TE

COUNTRYS

SUBJECTS

VENEZUELA/CUBA

DETERIORATING PHYSICAL CONDITION OF CUBAN EXiLE

LEADER ORLANDO BOSCH CDOTS Zi FEBRUARY 1978)

SOURCE!

1.

THE PHYSICAL CONDITION OF CUBAN EXiLE LEADER

ORLANDO BOSCH IS NOT CRITICAL: ANC CUBAN EXILE LEADERS AS

WELL AS THE VENEZUELAN COVERNMENT BELIEVE PHAT HIS DEATH

- J8 NEAR. IN A LASI EPPORT TO GET BOSEN TO SUBMIT TO MEDICAL

"PREATMENi AND TO WITHDRAN PROM HIS MUNGER STRIKE, CUBAN

ESSLE LEADERO ARE PRYING TO GET FORMER VENEZUELAN PRESIDENT

"HOMILO DE TANG OU NT TO VIBIT BOSEN AND REASON WITH

WIM, DOSCH ADMIRES BETANCOURT POM HI& STAUNCH ANTi-CUBAN

'BOVERNMINT STAND AND CUEAN INBLE' LEADERS BELIEVE HE IS IME ONLY

: ONBINHO MIGHT DE ABLE DO GUCCROSPULLY APPEAL TO BOSEN.

DO DOOCHIN PHIDICIAN AGINALOO MAN PEN CANO,

NNO 10 IN CLOSE COMPACT WIIN DOYEANMENS OPPSCIALS, MAS

NOVIOLO IME AUTMOMITICO THAT CONCHIM WIPAL BLONG ARE

14113

Mie eagerm

---

## Page 3

SECRET

N 0300200

WARNING NOTICE

PAGE DOE OF 0OZ

SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

. FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO

CONTROLS STATED AT

BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT

MEAKENING AND THAT MES GASTRIC COMOSTION IS DETERIORATING.

EXILE LEADERS MAVE ASKED GOVERNMENT PERMISSION TO MAVE

BOSCH ADMITTED TO A PRIVATE MOSPITAL AND HAVE INDICATED THEIR

MILLINGNESS TO PAY ALL EXPENSES, THE CUBAN EXILES HAVE ALSO

APPEALED TO PRESIDENT CARLOS ANDRES PER E Z TO EITHER

RELEASE BOSEN OR BRING MIM TO TRIAL. PEREZ• MONEVER. MAS

REPLIEO TMAT ME CANNOT YIELD TO ANY TYPE OF PRESSURE INCLUDING

THAT OF: A MUNGER STRIKES

COMMENT& INI

MINISTER OF INTERIOR OCTAVIO

LEPAGE SAID ME FEARED BOSCH'S DEATM WOULD BRING ABOUT

INCREASED TERRORIST ATTACKS AGAINST THE VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT

ANDO IN TURN, OPFICIAL REPRISALS AGAINST THE CUBAN EXILE

i CONMUNITY.!

DISSEME

EMBASSY, FBI AT CARACAS.

REPORT CLADD OK CRET WARNING NOTICE SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE

DOURCEO AND METHÓDS INVOLVED-NOT RELEABABLE TO POREIGN NATIONALOO

NOT RELCADABLE TO CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACTORICONBULTANTO.

CLASSIFILO AT RECORDED REPORTING OPPICER. XEDES

BLAT NOW DV

4:14

MORICTATE

ro, 9.90n

11y33

---

## Page 4

55/21/69

ACTIONI LANIS CAIIS

DOPD-Do

PCS/INT•5°

70 0350012

SECRET

F.IP

INTEL

INFOS FILEO VRO DO0OGe CADA, EPS/EGOZ, IIDe SP/ONB0

PAGE 001 OF

001

TORI 2316007 FEB 78

14 0350012

35587•

DECRET ?3102IZ TEB T8 INTEL

CITE

35501

TOR DIRECTOR INFO LA MIAMI

WNINTEL INTEL KMSTONE

BUPDATAS

SOURCE!

WKDIET/WKDIET"S DIRECTLY.

OD OBJECTIVE&

Jado NO INDEX®

FILE DEFERRED

CL BY 0351330

FILED!

231621Z

e: 389392

RECORD COPY

---

## Page 5

td-innod

BECRE!'

RDOTINE

Intelligence Information Cable

qu: 0550c12

FUITHEN DISSEMINATION AND USE OF TAIS INFORMATION SUNECT TOAGE 008

OF 003

CONTROIS STATED AT DEGRANING ANO ENO OF REPORT.

SYATE/INA JCSINCEDIAD CIAINNCC BBIIO FET

CSTITAGI SNS N8A

TREAS

300 (MARD COPTES TOs

NSCIS NFAC UNSITRN OCR SECUR DOAI.

naudad Be

HA PURRdA UH

OIUFILA TIONS

m Orcrannetee

THIS

15 AN INFORMATION REPORY. NOI FINALLY EVALUIP:D INTELLIGENCE

REPORT CLASO S E C A E TOMNINTEL-NORORANOCONTRACI

DLOT 23 FEB. 78

COUNTRYS VENEZUELA/CUBA

SUBJECTE CTEARS THAi THE DEATH OF ORLANDO BOSCH AS A REBALŸ

OF A MUNGER STRIKE MAY BRING ABOUT REPRISALS

EDOIÀ 20-28 FEBRUARY 19%8)

DO..BOTN TNE VENEZUELAN GOVERMMENT. AND THE CUBAN EXILE

CONMUNITY IN VENEZUELA ARE CONCERNZO PMAT CUBAN EXTLE LEADER

ORLANDO A O S ÈM MAY DIE AS A RESULT DÈ MIS CURRENT HUNGEN

STRIKE. FURTHERMORE, THE VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT PEARS THAT

BNOULO BOSCH DSE• CUSAN EXILE GROUPS WILL STEP UP THEIR ATFÄEKS

DN VENEZUELAN PACILSTIES. THE CUBIN ENILE COMMUNITT, IN TURNO

PRARS IMAI EXILE ATTACKA ON THE VENEZUILAN& WOULD BAING ABQUI

rit:

FURTHER VENEZUELAN COVEANMENT REPRISALS AGASMOI THE EXTLE COM.

MUNiTY.

JCOMMENTÀ BOSCH NAS BEEN SMPAIBONEO IN VENEZUELA

DINCE OCTOULR 10%6 IN CONNECTION WSIM TME COMBINO OÉ A EUDÁNA

ABALÖNER. MEE ANO PME OTHER INDIVIOUALÁ ACCUBRO D INVOLVEMEMÁ

ÉN PHE BOMDSNO, MAVE NOT YET BREN BROUGHi TO TAIAL: BOREMO.

GMO BUPPERS PAOM A MEARI ASLMUNT AND ULÉRASO HAB BBEN GNA

suénBi

pitporAiafy.antia s0t oty teolitesigeoe.lfeyi0i090.d11o801tnegedided.000@atitretre8sn7s0sl00tS2.00:099.180-p3390m

---

## Page 6

SECRET

0355012

mARLING NOTICE

PAGE 0O2 OF: 005

SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

FURTNER DISSEMINATION ANO USE

THIS INFORMATION

SUBJECT TO

CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF GEPORT

MUNGER STRIKE FOR APPROXIMATELY THREE BEERS.

DO ON 20 FEBRUARY 1978 OCTAVIO L E PAG EO VENEZUELAN

MINISTER OF INTERIOR. DISCUSSED BOSCHOS CONDITION MITMA

CUBAN EXILE LEADER IN VENEZUELA, LEPAGE SATA THAT ME MAD

RECEIVED REPORTS ON BOSCH'S PHYSICAL CONDITION AND THAT ME AND

OTMER GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS MERE CONCERNED

THAT. BOSCH MIGHT

INDEED DIE. SHOULD THIS OCCUR. LEPAGE SAID ME HAD NO DOUBT

• TMAT VENEZUELA MOULD BECOME THE TARGET FOR CUBAN EXILE TERRORIST

ATTACKS: LEPAGE EXPLAINED THAT BOSCH'S DEATH WOULD MEAN

PROBLEMS FOR THE GOVERNMENT AND THE EXILE COMMUNITY. THEREFORE.

LEPAGE-ASKED THE EXILE LEADER TO TALK WITH BOSCH AND ATTEMPT

TO DISSUADE HIM FROM CONTINUING WITH THE STRIKE.

SO THE CUBAN EXILE LEADER ACCOMPANIED BY REINALDO

MARTIN CANO. A CUBAN EXILE PHYSICIAN. VISITED BOSCH IN

THE HOSPITAL ON ZI FEBRUARY AND FOUND HIM TO BE IN SERIOUS

PHYSICAL CONDITION• HOSCH ALLOWES MARTIN TO GIVE HIM INJECTIONS

TO COMBAT BRAIN DEMYDRATION. BUT REFUSED ANY OTHER TREATMENT.

DOSCH ALSO NEFUSED TO GIVE UP MIS HUNGER STRIKE.

4. BOSEN EXPLAINED THAT HE WANTS TO BE BROUGHT TO TRIAL.

BUT ADDED PHAT VENEZUELAN PRESIDENT CARLOS ANDRES PEREZ

10 APRAIO TO BRING MIM BEFORE A COURT OR LAW. PRESIDENT PEREZO

DOSCH BAID, BETRATEO HIM AND THE SUBAN EXILED. FURTMERMOREO

PREIDENT PEREZ MILL DE PEASONALLY REAPONSIBLE FOR HIS DEATH

MAND WILL, PAY TME PHICE PON HID QUILT.

COMMENTI

---

## Page 7

SECRET®

PAGE DOS OF DOS

SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS

INVOLVES

FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFONMATION

SUBJECT TO

CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF

REPORT

DETAILS OF PEREZ' SUPPUSED BETRAYAL OF MOSCH ARE NOT KNON.

THE OPINION OF THE EXILE COMMUNITY IS THAT. BOSCH AND PEREZ. HAD

SOME SORT OF DEAL MMICH MOSCH FEELS PEREZ BETRAYED.)

DISSEMS EMBASSY, FBI AT CARACAS.

REPORT CLASS SECRE POPARNING NOTICE-SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE

SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED-NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN NATIONALS

NOT RELEASABLE TO CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACTOR/CONSULTANTS.

CLASSIFIED BY RECORDED REPORTING OFFICER. XGDS-2

---

## Page 8

eNGel Co La 19010440469

1330

SECRET

FAPE

DEFERRED. TELEPOUCH

ACTIONA IP/DEOS (057) INFOS FILEO

RF •

ODPD#De

(7/8)

T0 0335346

PAGE 001

TON: 172030Z FEB 78

135550

SECRET ITIOSZ FEB TO DEFERRED TELEPOUCH

CITE

35550

TOE MASHINGTON,

FORg

SUBJECTE

''JOSSIBLE RELEASE OF CUBAN EXILE JEADER ORLANDO BOBCA

REFERENCES WASHINGTON 173605

LEGALLY THERE IS LITTLE CHANCE OF CONVICTING BOSCH

AND

THE OTHERS BECAUSE THE CRIME WAS NOT COMMITTED IN VENEZUELA

• AND THUS VENEZUELA HAS NO JURISDICTION IN THE

OPERIONS NO EVIDENCE AGAINST BOSCH ANO GROUP. CASESE SPCONNE

SECONDLY,

OPINIONS OFL

KALIKE-LO WROIEY AND

WESCARLETO.

Z..

WHILE HERNAN AND LUGO SUPPOSEDLY CONFESSED TO THE

CRIME IN TRINIDAD, THEIR CONFESSIONS

ARE NOT ADMISSABLE IN

COURT

AND THEY HAVE DECLINED TO REPEAT THEM FOR VENEZUELAN

JUDICIAL AUTHORITIES.

THE EVIDENCE LINKING HERNAN AND LUGO

TO POSADA COMES FROM TELEPHONE TAPS, WHICH ARE LIKENISE

BOSCH'S CONNECTION WITH THE CASE COMES FROM

• TELEPHONE CONVERSATION BETWEEN LUGO AND POSADA IN. WHACT

THE NAME "ORLANDO" IS MENTIONED.

DEFENSE ATTORNEYS COULD

MAKE A GOOD CASE THAT THE "ORLANDO" WAS DISIP OFFICER ORLANDO

CARCIA AND NOT ORLANDO BOSCH.

THE GOV COULD, OF COURSE, PUT PRESSURE ON THE COURT

AND

JUGGLE

THE

EVIDENCE TO GET

A CONVICTION, BUT TO DO SO WOULC

LEAVE IT, OPEN FOR CRITICISM INTERNALLY AND REPRISALS FROM THE

CUBAN EXILES, AND WOULD MAKE

IT MORE LIKELY THAT THE DEFENO

DANTA WOULD DIVULGE EMBARRASSING INFORMATION CONNECTING

GOVEANMENT FIGURES TO BOBCH

AND THE EXILED ME LED.

Ma

NO FILE. ER IMPDET

ASSAGI

16 0)

• ENO OF MEGDADE

RECORD COPY

DECRET

17 Fish 7e

---

## Page 9

21045)

+0S00I0801

-TIC LIT

SETAL. 1E9169

SECRET

ThA, 1l..D

12150.

PILE, VB. DDO 4. EPS/EG 2, IP/OMS, IID, PCS/ INT 5

CI 4I. CA 4. CANSOG NO SIA, SINTL, POSITE 4O FR'S

2031120000

1 978598

E1 A909:

PAGE 91

TAR: 2622682 MUN 72

SEGRET 282126% JUN 77 INTEL

CI TEL

33517 CHACKELING ACTING)

TO: IMMEDIATE DIRECTOR INFO LA/MIAMI.

NNINTEL INTEL MESTONE

SUPDATA:

IN 3E0S60

99217

"FILED!

OD OBUECTIVES J.1. NO INDEX,

FILE DEFERRED. NOTE: INFO SHOULD BE PASSED

:TO DUPUTY ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF STATE FOR

SECURITY. CL BY 035133.

28 21 24 2

XXXXX

1. crong

2.

C0G/70r5

5.

Ci 705

7. 07WWIA

5. бЛОИ

8. O7LA

LO. O/NEAR

i9:1

Aord

sile

Orlands

BOSCH

---

## Page 10

i9. 19

Intelligence Information Cable

• PRIORITY

0 326366

DASTINE ISTELLICENCE SOLICES AND MITHOOS LATULVEI

TATL/IN ICHINE EDIAI PUDACE SWI ASA IIIAS MICA ADO NO OCA PAGE I OFZ PAGE

borato al lo (100l Magna

tota

FURTHER DISSIMNATON AND USE OF PHIS INICRALATION SUBICT TO

CONTROLE STARIO AL BEGINAING AND INO CE DEPONI.

RIS 1S AN TAFORMATICN TEPORI, NOT HINALY EVAIUATED INTELIGINCE

SECRET

DUT Z8 JUNE 1977

REPORT CLASS S.E CR E T MARNING NOTICE- SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE

SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED-NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN NATIONALS-

NOT RELEASABLE :TO CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACTORI CONSUL TANTS- DISSEMINATION

AND EXTRACTION OF INFORMATION CONTROLLED BY ORIGINATOS.

COUNTRYS VENEZUELA

DO 18

. 20 JUNE 1977.

SUBJECT:

'INTERCEPTION BY VENEZUELAN SECURITY OFFICIALS OF A NOTE

BEING SMUGGLED IN TO THÉ SAN CARLOS PRISON FOR ORLANDO

BOSCH

ON 24 JUNE 1977 VENEZUELAN SECURITY OFFICIALS INTERCEPTEU

# MESSAGE WHICH NAS BEING SMUGGLED INTO THE SAN CARLOS. PAISON

TOR CUBAN EXILE LEADER ORLANDO B O S EN. WHO I8 CURRENTLY UNDER

DETENTION IN VENEZUELA IN CONNECTION WITH THE B OCTOSER 1976

BOMBINO OF A CUBANA AIRLINER, ALTHOUON THE MESSAGE WAS INTERCENTED,

VINQZUELAN AUTHORITLES GOPIED IT AND THON ALLOVED IT TO DE DELIVERED

---

## Page 11

14-00000

IN

328368

WARNLIC NOTICE .

EASITIVE INTELLICENCE SOUNCES AND METHODE INTUAIEO..

PAGEZ OF 2 PAGES

SECRET

FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND VIE OF THIS INIORMATION SUBJECT TO

CONIROLS SIATEO AI PLATINING AND END, OF. REPORI.

TO DOSCH. MHO PRESUMABLY IS UNAWARE PHAT THE MESSAGE WAS INTERCEPTED.

COMMENTI

THE IDENTITY OF THE SENDER IS UNKHOHN.D

2. THE NOTE WAS WRITTEN IN THE SAME CODE WHICH VENEZUELAN

AUTHORITIES HAVE BEEN ABLE TO BREAK, THE FOLLOWING IS THE TEXT

OF THE NOTE:

"URBAN GUERRILLAS BEGINNING, SOON YOU WILL BE SET FREE.

APARTMENT RESOLVED. ANITA GAVE ME THE MONEY. MARCOS"

COMMENT: FOR INFORMATION ON AN EARLIER MESSAGE

MRITTEN IN CODE FROM BOSCH TO AN ANA PO

FROM THE SAME SOURCE.

DISSEM!

EMBASSY, FOL AT CARACAS. SENT TO USUN.

REPORT CLASS SE CRE P-HARNINO NOTICE-SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE

SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED-NOT RELRABABLE TO FOREIGN NATIONALS:

NOT RELEASABLE TO CONIRACTORS OR CONTRACTOR/CONSULTANTS

DISSEMINATION OR EXTHACTION OF INFORMATION CONTROLLED EY

ORIGINATOR, CLASSIFIED DY RECORDED REPORTING OFFICER, XODS R.

ADVANCE COPY TRANSTETTED TO STATE DIA ARMY NAVY AIR SUS NSA JES CIAOPS CENTER

POT TREAS

---

## Page 12

14-00000

x: 133.

SECRETE: 1N

DE FERRED TELEPQUCH

it a 097es

Ipbes

63633

PAGE 81

TOR: 161117₴ JUN 79

SECRET LAIRSEL JUN TO DEFERRED TELEPOUCH

CI TE

122 986•

4O: WASMINGTON.

PORE CALA

SUBJECTE WNINTEL/ORLANDO BOSCH - "THE NEW TIMES" INTERVIEW

REFS DIRECTOR 030267: L0C-199292

8•: WORKING PEOPLE'S VANGUARD PARTY INPUPS, A SPLINTER

PARTY WITH FEN ADHERENTS LED BY BRINDLEY BEN NO PUBLISMED

•* JUNE MIMEOGRAPWED FLYER WITH HALF BACK PAGE DEVOTED "JAMAICAN

DAILY' NEWS" INTERPRETATION "THE NEW, TIMES" ARTICLE, ARTICLE'S

FOCUS IS THE 805 CHAPERES CONNECTION AND THAT BOSCH IS A SELF

PROCLAIMED CIA AGENT •

= 2. NOT ARTICLE HAS NOT BEEN REFLAYED IN

THE WAVD FLYER REACHES FEW READERS AND THEIR

REACTION

IS NOT MEASUREABLE.

8. NO FILE.

#& IMPDET.

P/100

IN 336009

21 08 6

0000-120.102

201-0978212

RECCRO COPY

---

## Page 13

14-00000

- 10gs.

es Micita

TOTAL COPEEE

SECRET

realos mis correcto _.

: 23 6: 1 su

AGENCY MESSAGE

LA 13

TILE. VR. DOO 7. EPS/BG 2, XP/DMS) IID, PCS/INT

C V. CA .. CASOG 4, SIA:, SINFLA POS/ITE 4. FR 5

1 010590

EL A909

PAGE 01

TOR: 2829493 JUN 77

SECRE Y 2821262 JUN 77 INTEL

33517 (HACKELING ACTINGS

TO A INMEDIATE DIRECTOR INFO LA/MIAMI, FRENEN YORK.

WNINTEL INTEL MISTONE

SUPDATA:

IN 328360

33317

FILEDI

OD OBJECTIVES J. NO INDEX.

FILE DEFERHED. (NOTE: INFO SHOULD BE PASSED

TO DUPUTY ASSIST ANT SECRETARY OF STATE FOR

SECURITY.D CL BY 035133.

28 21 26 2

XX XXX

ig :7

Se

A LATAI

INCELI

RECORD COPY

50 599292

28 quar??

---

## Page 14

DIRECTORAT CI

OPELATIONS

do HRIOKITY

Intelliger.ce Information Cable

WARNING NOTICE

IN 328366

SUASTTIVE INTELLICENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

STATE/INE NES/MC (DIA) CLAMAÇS SWS NSA TRRAS NSC/S S0O NIO OCR PAGE I OF2. PAGES

(SY/TAG) SS/ID FBI SECUR

WHSITRM DDA OSO ON

Dartamei Pier tier

nodule el HQ, B100t @nompa

FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO

CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.

THIS TS AN INFORMATION REPORT, NOT FINALLY EVALUATED INTELIGENCE

SECRET

DIST 28 JUNE 1177

REPORT CLASS 5 E CRET WARNING NOTICE - SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE

SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED-NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN NATIONALS

, NOT RELEASABLE TO CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACTOR/ CONSULTANTS- DISSEMINATION

AND EXTRACTION OF INFORMATION CONTROLLED BY ORIGINATOR•

COUNTRY:

DO I:

SUBJECT:

VENEZUEL A

24. JUNE 1977

INTERCEPTION BY VENEZUELAN SECURITY OFFICIALS OF A NOTE

BEING SMUGGLED IN TO THE SAN CARLOS PRISON FOR ORLANDO

DO SCH

S,' ON 24 JUNE 197Y VENEZUELAN SECURITY OFFICIALS INTERCEPTED:

A MESSAGE: WHICH HAS DEING SMUGGLED INTO THE SAN CARLOS PRISON

PON CUBAN EXILE LEADER ORLANDO O O SCH. WHO 10 CURAUNTLY UNDER

DETENTION IN VENGAVELA IN CONNECTION WITH THU A OCTOOEN. 10%0

DOM9 INO OF A CUBANA AIRLINER,: ALPHOUQN THE MESDAQE WAS IN PERCENTED.

VINE DUELAN AUTHORITICS

COFIED IT AND THEN ALLOWED IT TO OE DELIVERED

---

## Page 15

IN

328368

VARNING NOTIC

SENSITIVE INTELLICENCE SOUNCES AND METRIODS INVOLVED.:

PAGE 2 OF 2 PAGES

FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INTORMATION SUBJECT TO

CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END. OF. REPORT.

(eteenlfienttons

TO BOSCH. WHO PRESUMABLY IS UNAWARE THAT THE MESSAGE WAS INTERCEPTED.

COMMENT& THE IDENTITY OF THE SENDER IS UNKNOWN

?.

THE NOTE WAS WRITTEN IN THE SAME CODE WHICH VENEZUELAN

AUTHORITIES HAVE BEEN ABLE TO BREAK.. THE FOLLOWING IS THE TEXT

OF THE NOTE:

TURBAN GUERRILLAS BEGINNING. SOON YOU WILL BE SET FREE,

APARTMENT: RESOLVED, ANITA GAVE ME THE MONEY, MARCOS"

I COMMENT& FOR INFORMATION ON AN EARLIER MESSAGE

WAITTEN IN CODE FROM BOSCH TO AN ANA PO

FROM THE SAME SOURCE.!

DISSENT

ENDASSY, FOL AT CARACAS. SENT TO. USUN,

REPORT CLASS SEEN U TO WARNING NOTICE-BENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE

SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED NOT RELEASABLE TO FORMIGN NATIONALS

NOT HELEASABLE TO CONIRACTORS OR CONTRACTOR/CONSULTANTS

DIBBEMINATION OR EXTHACTION OF INCORMATION CONTAOLLED BY

•ORI@INATOR, CLASSIFIED BY NECORDED REPORPINO APPICER.

NO 0S -

ADVANCE COPY TRANSHETTID TO STATE DIA ARMY NAVY AIR SUS NSA SCS CHAOPS CENTER

PEE TREAS

1 99914

---

## Page 16

td-innon'

CABLE BEC CNSSEM BY.

rore co 18

SECRET

: /au.

DERBONLNINIT NOTIFIED.

ST AFF

ADVANCE CONY ISSUED/SLOTTED

ACTION UNiT

LA8

Ar.

FILE.

va celous, eAt, epslas e

Pos/eNT,

924801

EI A191

PAGE 01

TOR: 1020122 JUN 7

SECRET 1019417 JUN TO STAFF

20831

CITE

TO: DIRECTOR INFO

NI IN TEL

REF: DIRECTOR 030287

1. TO DATE, THERE MAS BEEN NO LOCAL COVERAGE OF "NEW

TIMES" ARTIGLE MENTIONED REF•

10 JUNE 77 FRONT-PAGE ARTICLE IN

QUOTES DOMINICAN MAGAZINE "AMORA" AS PUBLISHING

DECLARATIONS BY ORLANDO ADSCM IN WHICH LATTER SAYS:

COSTA RICAN PRESIDENT DANIEL O DU DER GAVE HIM THREE

PASSPORIS, ONE PERUVIAN AND TWO COSTA RICAN AS.

COMPENSATION FOR BOSCH'S ARREST. IN COSTA RICA ON

16 FEBRUARY 20.. ME WAS EXPELLED FROM COSTA ALCA 0A

8Y MANCH Y0.

J.

WILL ADVISE ANY REACTION TO ABOVE,

PILl 201-300909. 09 IMP009.

REPRUDÚCTION OY OTMER THAN

ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITED

IN 310970

20831

RECORD CONY

001-

---

## Page 17

SECURE STORAGE

ORIGINATOR'S RIQUEST IOR MOS. PROCESSING

INDERING REQUESTED

•DISPATCH

SECRET

Chief of Station.

APERTURE CARD RICESTED

Chief. Latin Ameria Division

Chief of Stacion.

RYBAT/FUDWELL/OrLando BOSCH Avila: LETELIER Assa88ination

ACTICH RECURED - HEFERINCES

WARNING NOTICE-SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

has requested that the Station pouch the

attached memorandum enticled "Orlando BOSCH Avila; LETELIER

Ansassination," dated 27 May 1977, and the phocograph of Hector:

Bailio Ramon DAVANZO CINTOLBSI tO

PauLA L MOTTART

Can an util

ATTAOHHENTS HEREWITHI

2-paga nomo

Do One photo

DIGERIEUTIONI

On...

cOB,

O/bAD WrItE,

only

CRACE EACH AND HOMELA

MADA • 26179

TAND CATTEN

UNGUIT

h/w

pants. 1884

LA/COO

CNO00 FILM COPY

s01-.

2164197

DO NOT NEUTROY

IMPDET

1 Juno: 1019

NOS HA HOMOB

30041 100/1

L

---

## Page 18

14-00000

Memor-dum

CONPIDENTIAL

TO

FROM

DATE: : .

5/27/7.7:

SUbJECT:

LEGAT FOBERT W. SCHERRER, BUENOS AIRES

ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA;

LETELIER ASSASSINATION

The Chilean Department of Investigations navised

that the International Police located a record of entry for

PEDRO ANTONIO PENA RODRIGUEZ into Chile on S, 30/75 fron Colombia

as a tourist.

PLNA RODRIGUEZ was carrying Dominican Passport

#0S6768, which disclosed his date of birth as 1/8/29.

PENA

RODRIGUEZ was admitted to Chile as a tourist.

No record for

PENA RODRIGUEZ'S departure from Chile could be located.

The Chilean Department of Investimations advised that

the Chilean Passport Office located a record for IECTOR EMILIO

RANON DAVANZO INTOLESI, who wa: born on s/15/27 in Santingo,

the son of. PECTOR DAVANZO and AWLIA ENRIQUET CINTOLESI.

This individual has Chilean Santiago Codula da Identlend #2.357.5°

and Chilean Passport #27.671,

the latter belug issuod on

10/22/75.

Chilean Passport Office records 115t

DAVANZO CINTOLESI'

•address in Santlago as Callo Miguel Claro #1129.

Attachod is a copy of a photograph of DAVANZO

CINTOLESI, which was copied from his Cedula de Idontland,

2251.

The Chilean Dopartmont of Investigntions rilvisod

that the International Polico roported that DIVANZO CINTOIFSI

departed Santingo on 12/23/75 chroute to Panamn.

MOOCIdINK tO

International Polico Records, DAVANZO CINTOLESI WAS anyon

Chiloan Pussport #20,583, whoi he dopartod Chile on 8/20,73.

The Chilean Departnent of Invostigations sportod

that the Chalcan Panapont Orried navised that Chilean Pamport

#aG, 583 notually bolongs to

RAUE NAiLTINE% TORRES,

Codula

de Identidad 6.020,0320

Chilonn Innaport Offiue reoorde di

CONFIDENT TAL

Prate

099%

Attachmont

foid

3 2.

L

---

## Page 19

ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA;

LETELIER ASSASSINATION

closed that MARTINEZ TORRES resides in

Santiago at Avenida

Las Soporas 98, Apartment 401.

It is noted that PEDRO AUTONIO PENA RODRIGUEZ .

•and HECTOR EMILION PANON DAVANZO CINTOLESI vore false

{dontities

utilized by ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA during travels

throughout South America®

---

## Page 20

CONFIDENTI

ALT

15 June 1977

MEMORANDUN FOR:

FROM

SUBJECT

REFERENCE

OS/SAG

U/SA/DO/O

Directorate File Holdings on Orlando

Bosch Avila

FBI Memorandum, & June 1977, Subject:

Ralph W. Stavins

9

jee

Bosch

With regard to reference, and to the Assistant

Attorney General's (criminal) memorandum, dated 20 May 1977,

same subject as reference, this Diroctorate maintains a

personality (201) file on Orlando Bosch Avila, presently in

sir volumes and containing material classified through

"Secret."

2. (U/ FOUO)

Please keep this office advised if there

15

any possibility that the files or & Directorate officer

s custodian of the files will be involved in. the possible

prosecution of the subject of reference.

0/8A/DO/0

Dintribution

Original &

1

kaw (1542)

2

OS/SAG

SA/C/LA

BA/C/LA (201-209202)

OCC

• BA/DO/O

I8 IMPDIT CL BY 018630

CONFIDUNTIAL

---

## Page 21

?CONFIDE

1S June 1977

MEMORANDUN FOR:

FRON

SUBJECT

REFERENGE

OS/SAG

0/SA/DO/O

Directorate File Holdings on Orlando

Bosch Avila

.: FBI Memorandum, 1 June 1977, Subject:

Ralph W. Stavins

1. (C)

With regard to reference, and to the Assistant

Attorney General's

(criminal) memorandum,

dated 20 May 1977,

this Directorate maintains a

same subject as reference Orlando Bosch Avila, presently in

personality (201) file on

six volumes

and containing material classified. through

"Secret."

2. (U/FOUO): Please keep this office advised if there

is any possibility that the files or a Directorate officer

as custodian of the files will be involved in the possible

prosecution of the subject of reference.

0/SA/DO/0:

Distributior

Origlial &

kaw. ( 1542)

1

OS/SAG

SA/C/LA

SA/C/LA (201-299292)

OGC

BA/ DO/0

32 IMPDOT CL BY 018630

CONF

D

N

rightar:"

---

## Page 22

14-00000

118900-172"a-V0

TOTAL COPIES

SECRET

AGINCY MESSAGE

ADONICA CUY

LA 15

TETION o

FILE, VR, DDO 1. EPS/EG 2,

IPYOMS, IID, PCS/INT 5º

CIV. SIA, CA HO CAJOS 4. SINTL, POSITE 4. FR S.

932607

E1A000

PAGE 61

TOR 141710} JUN 77

SECRET 141033& JUN TO INTEL

CITEL

—33397.

TO! PRIORITY DIRECTOR INFO LA/MIAMI, FRINEW YORK,

MNINTEL INTEL KMSTONE

SUPDATA! ERWAHOO FOR POSSIOLE SPECIAL HANDLING•

IN 313892

33399

OD OBUECTIVES JOL. NO INDEX. FILE DEFERRED.

REQUESTS THAT THIS INFORMATION BE PASSED

PROMPTLY TO DEPUTY ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF STATE

FOR SECURITY IN CONNECTION WITH THE FORPHCOMIVO

VISIT OT PRESIDENT PEREZ TO THE UNITED STATES. I

• 66 DY 039133,

P86UD1 1410330 X

CHID COMPENT!

AT REQUEST OF LA REPORTS OFFICER, INSERTED "USUN" IN FIELD DISSEN LINE.

LIPTER CABLE SENT. *

CAN TH

RECORD COPY

e60099292

11 quir"

---

## Page 23

SECRET

•PSIANTE

Integence Information Cable

BETTIVE INTELUCEN SOLICES AND METHODS LAVOLVED

ESTROY SIT FOr SEE MASTS 5819 BASE PACE I OR 2 PACES

streets « BO. Shot impute

FURTHE DISSEMMNATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUIJECT TO

CONTROLS STATED A! BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.

TRES 1S AN INFORMATIÓN REPORT, NOY FINALLY EVALLIATED INTELIGENCI

DOST LY JUNE 197.

REPORT CLASS SECRET "WARNING NOTICE-SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE

SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED- NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN NATIONALSO

NOT RELEASABLE TO CONTRACIORS OR CONTRACTOR/CONSULTANTS

COUNTRY

DO 1

SUBJECT

VENE RELA.

EARLY JUNE 197%

"INTERCEPTION BY VENEZUELAN SECURITY OFFICIALS OF A NOTE

FROM ORLANDO BOSCH THREATENING VENEZUELAN OFFICIALS

S! YENERUEGAN SECURITY OFFICIALS RECENTLY INTERCEPTED A

MESSAG WHICH CUBAN EXILE LEADER ORLANDO O O S CMOWHO IS CUFT.

RUNTLY UNDER DETENTION IN VENERUELA IN CONNECTION WITH THE

• GOTONIA 10%0 DONDING OF A CUBANA AIRLINEA, WAS ATTEMPPINO TO

ONUGGLE OUT OF THE PRISON WHERE NE L8 BEING MELD: (SOURCE

COMMONTO IP I8 NOP KNOWN HOW DOOCHIS NOTE. WA: BEINO EMUGGLUD

OUT OF THO PRISON OR WHOTHOR DOOCH SO AWARD THAT PHE NOTE HAS

DUIN POUND BY VUNQQUELAN AUTHORITINO, THE IDUNTITY OF THO ADDRESSEE

i8 gun 27

---

## Page 24

it;

IN 3382

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTELLICENCE SOURCES AND MATTINDS INVOLVED

PAGE 2 OF 2 PAGES

SECRET

FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUIJECT TO

CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.

IS ALSO UNKNOWN.}

& PHE NOTE WAS MRITTEN IN A CODE WHICH VENEZJELAN AUTHOR

ITIES WERE SUCCESSFUL IN BREAKING, THE FOLLOWING IS THE TEXT OF

BOSCHOS NOTES

"ANA P:

"OTHER MESSAGES WILL FOLLOW• ATTEMPTS TO KIDNAP

VENEZUELAN DIPLOMATS ARE GOING TO OCCUR, VENEZUELAN

16904

AMBASSADOR TO THE, "UNITED'" NATIONS, THIS INVOLVES A

001.

PREMENDOUS: RISK FOR ME AS I AM STILL IN JAILI WE

COME, MEVE TO ATTACK EVERYTHING, EXCEPT THEIR PLANES IN

AIR. THEIR OFFICES ON TNE GROUND. YES. & HGPE

0M4E62

TO 08 PREN SOON, THERE IS NO

16,F1

DISSEMS, EMBASSY, FEL AT CARACASO LEUN.

RIPOAT CLASS DE CRE TOLARNING NOTICE-SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE

BOURCRS AND MEMODS INVOLVED-NOT RELEASÁBLE TO PORESON NATIONALS

MOT RELEABABGE TO CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACTOR/CONSULTANTS.

GADOLPIND BY NICORDED REPORTINO OFF ICOR, XODS-8

ADVANCE COPY TRANSMITTED TOI

STATE• DIAT

ARNY

NAVY, AIRA NCS+ NSA+ SWS"

S5/104 TREASURY.

---

## Page 25

FBI DOCUMENT (MEMO FROM DIRECTOR)

DATE: 1 JUNE 1977

CIASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAI

SUBJECT: RALPH W. STAVINS • POSSINLE ESPIONAGE

FBI FILE NO: NONE GIVEN (WASH., D.C.)

---

## Page 26

14-00000

OUTGOING VESSAGE

0 ..

29'!

OMF

SECRET

0

061415Z

DIRECTOR

3. COC/HES,

DISSEM BY, 4S

PER

Asclose Dados a

TOS. IMMEDIATE

8. O/EUR

WNINTEL MISPIKE KASTONE Y

9. 0/EA

REF: DIRECTOR 043403 Y

10. 0/NEAF

I• HEADQUARTERS URGENTLY NEEDS STATION COMMENTS ON MESSAGE

FORWARDED REFERENCE. IS THERE ANY CONFIRMATION THAT BOSCH. GAVE

INTERVIEW AS ALLEGED AND THREATENED VIOLENCE ON PART. OF HIS

FOLLOWERS UNLESS HE IS BROUGHT TO TRIAL WITHOUT FURTHER DELAYP Y

2. NO FILE. EZ. IMPDET-M

COMMENTS REF TRANSMITTED FBI MESSAGE CONCERNING ALLEGED RADIO.

INTERVIEW GIVEN BY JAILED CUBAN

EXILE LEADER ORLANDO BOSCH. STATION

WAS ASKED FOR ANY INFORMATION RELATED TO INTERVIEW.

ORIGS LA/PNEL

8445478 COORDI PESPITE L

TELECOORDJS

LA/COG

AUTHOCHA/PNG

RELS. CALAD

PCS/TTCl

Ac/LANCOG.

• TELICOORD

DATS I

C80%

JUNE 3977 Ju

LA/PNS/K

MARIA

СИБА

AVe

#P.T

DEFLATENE

t'

---

## Page 27

OUTGOING MESSAGE

10.

oMF 0

SECRET

STAFF

0223347

DIRECTOR

044858

DISSEM BY 45

# 132

TO:

WNINTEL REAM MHSPIKE Y

• JO FOLLOWING IS. TEXT OF FBI CABLE 280510Z- DATED 28 MAY

3777= THIS INFO IS FOR ADDRESSEE'S BACKGROUND ONLY: NOT TO BE

DISCUSSED OR OTHERWISE DISCLOSED OUTSIDE AGENCY HITHOUT PRIOR

HAS AUTHORIZATION.

1':

• ISIG CENTER: PLS TRANSMIT ATTACHED FBI CABLE lIN

277480/ BEGINNING WITH ON MAY 23, 39770 A SOURCE. • ''' Y

&. FILE: 019-300-0288 201-2992920 EZ, IMPDET-e

S.

1. C/COG

2. DC/COG

&. COG/OPS

• CA

C1/05

7: 07WHA

8. 07207

. 075

O. O7NEAF

0m01

: BATI

JUNE: 39792

JIRCH

LA/COG/EXTUT

€ь BY 010084

SEGRET

---

## Page 28

14-00000

OUTGOIN MESSAGE

16609

OF 0

0

STAFF

DIRECTOR

COMe, LA8 MPO: FRE

Pes/oTea, DD0/D0, DOA, E78S/0G2

e/POs

030207

NITRAET

TO THE HE DUANG

UNINTEL

J: 13 MAY EDITION OF "THE NEW TIMES, " U.S. MONTHLY LIDE

SENSATIONALIST NEMS MAGAZINE, CARRIES ARTICLE BY FREE LANCE

JOURNALIST BLAKE FLEETWOOD BASED ON HIS INTERVIEN WITH CUBAN

IXILE TERRORIST ORLANDO BOSCH, IMPRISONED IN VENEZUELA CHARGED

WITH INVOLVEMENT IN BONDING OF CUBANA AIRPLANE LAST OCTOBER•

ARTICLE WMICH ALSO CARRIED AS UPI ITEM AND EXCERPTED RECENTLY

TO CERACAS DAILY NEWSPAPER, IS MIXTURE OF DIRECT QUOTES FROM

DOSCH AS WELL AS ALLEGATION", ASSUMPTIONS, ETC. FROM OTHER EXILES

AND OTHER NENSPAPER REPORTS. Y

AFTER DISCUSSING CIA SPONSORSHIP AND SUBSEQUENT OCTRAYAL

OP ACTEVITICS OF SONI WºOSE ANTI-CASTRO EXILES IN CARLY SIXTIES.

DOSCH LAUNCHES ATTACK ON VINEZUCLAN PRESIDENT CARLOS ANDRIS POCREZ

POR DEING TRAITOR TO DEMOCEACY, TO CUDA AND TO INTERAMERICAN

CAUSE AND SAYS ME THEREFORE DECLARING WAR ON VENIZUELAN.

CidI

Wwti

1h3:90

RolaNE

RICORD COPY

00000и

/ OVURO THAN THE IDOVINO OPPICA IN PROMMITRO

as Drag 17

801-289282

IMPDIT

---

## Page 29

OUTGOING MESSAGE

OnF

• 0

SECRE I

STAFF

ComP:

0

DIRECTOR

UFO: PILL

030287

000

DISBAN EY:

GOVERNMENT. BOSCH CHARGE! VENEZUELAN PRESIDENT, MINISTER OP

INTERIOR AND TOP. POLICE OFFICIALS CONSPIRED WITH HIM AND SHOULD

BE IN JAIL. HE CLAIMS HE WAS OFFERED WEAPONS AND BODYGUARDS.

WHICH HE REJECTED, AND WAS PROVIDED WITH SAFE BASE OF OPERATIONS

TO PLAN TERRORIST ACTS. V

J. BOSCH CLAIMS HE "SET UP" MURDER OF TUONCUBAN EMBASSY

OFFICIALS LAST AUGUST IN ARGENTINA AND THA: ME WAS ALLOWED

LIVE IN CHILE FROM DEC 74 TO SEC 75 FROM WHICH HE PLANNED AND

ENGAGED IN SHOOTINGS AND BONDINGS IN SOUTHERN CONE.: HE THEN.

INGAGED IN SINILAR ACTIVITIES WHILE LIVING IN DOMINICAN REPUBLIC

AND DETAILED FORMATION OF CORU SUMBRELLA GROUP OF ANTI-CASTRO:

MILITANT EXILE ORGANIZATIONSE LAST JUNE AND SAYS CORU HAS BEEN

RESPONSIOLE POR OVER FIFTY DOMINGS IN US• MEXICO, VENEZUELA?

PANAMA AND MEXICO SINCE THAT TIME• BOSCH ALSO CLAIMS COSTA

RICAN PRESIDENT DUDER FURNISHED HIM WITH FALSE PASSPORTS

HOSEN DENZED ZAVOLVEMENT IN ALLIGED DINA PLOT TO ASSASSINATE

NEPHEW OF SALVADOR ALLENDE AND INVOLVEMENT IN LETELIER ASSASSINATION.

MOLEVER, THE ARTICLE CLAIRS WHEN ME HAS PIRST ARRESTED IN VENEZUELA,

ene:

WANI

ASPROBULHON OY OTHER THAN THE I6BUMO APPICE 18 0 19170E

---

## Page 30

OUTGOING - MESSAGE

MINAL CANTEE UN ONLY

•n O

BANANATON

E.R..

STAFF

. ComP:

DIRECTOR

030287

0IS5AN 0Y.

.. mos

•HE REPORTEDLY INDICATED THAT FELLOW CUBAN EXILES WITH WHOM HE

CLOSELY ASSOCIATED WERE DIRECTLY INVOLVED IN BOMBING OF LETELIER.

•" IN ADDITION TO ABOVE ARTICLE REFERS TO BOSCH'S TRAVEL

IN CARIBBEAN TO ESTABLISH ALLIANCES WITH FRIENDLY GOVERNMENTS

IN NICARAGUA • DOMINICAN REPUBLIC, COSTA RICA AND VENEZUELA

WHERE POWERFUL CUBAN EXILE COMMUNITIES EXIST. ALSO MENTIONS

SERIES OF BOMBINGS INCLUDING THAT OF PANAMANIAN EMBASSY IN. CARACAS

AND GULYANESE EMBASSY IN TRINIDAD. REFERRING TO ALLEGED PACT

HE MADE WITH VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT NOT TO ENGAGE IN TERRORIST

ACTS AGAINST CERTAIN COUNTRIES, BOSCH CLAIMS ME WOULD EXCLUDE

VENEZUELA, COSTA RICA AND DOMINICAN REPUBLIC BUT INSISTED: ON

INCLUDING PANAMA BECAUSE IT A LEFTIST DICTATORSHIPS AND GUAYANA

INHOSE EMBASSY MAS ALREADY ATTACKEDS. ALSO RIPERS TO ARREST

AND INTERROGATION IN TRINIDAD BY POLICE CHIEF I

CUDAN CXILES WHO AT PIRST ADMITTED COMPLICITY IN CUBANA BONGING

:AND INVOLVEMINT OF BOSCH AND THEN LATER REPUDIATED THEIR CONFESSION.

¡o SINCE UPI CARRYING PLIETWOOD INTERVICH OF BOSCHI IT

LIKELY APPEAR

IN ADDRESSEE AREAS SOON• PLEASE CAOLE

DATEI

00100

world

MIPRODUCTION DY OTHER THAN THU IDOVIRO OPPICA IN PROMOTIO

IMPDET

---

## Page 31

OUTGOING

MESSAGE

ONIF O

SECRET

STAFF

COMP:

D

0 •

DIRECTOR

030287

00

HIGNLIGHTS OF LOCAL COVERAGE AND REACTION. Y

&• DUNO FILE. EZ IMPET A

ORIG!|

C/LAISE &

CALAICAR &

LA/OPS X1173% COORDS CALAPAN €

88 CALAINCA &

88. CILA/PNE.!

28. CANCOGE

JUWAUTH: CALA/OPS

X943%8 RELIDCALAD

114337•8

DISSEN MY,

150 mon

TUME TO PER

• AVN

BATHI & MAY $577

1121

JNd/V719

VSW/V9/9

85/19/9

•E09M9)

Ritateis

AN AMAN

Bone drone

17418g1

---

## Page 32

WIL! CHECK CLASSIE

TION TOP AND BOTTOM

LiCL

OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP

MANNI AND ADDRESS

" LA/COG/CUB EXILES TUBE:

ATTN:

HORACE S.

DATE

EU - 7

SECRET

INITIALS

APPROVAL

COMMENT

CONCURRENCI

DIRECT REPLI

DISPATCH

FILE

IGFOREIATION

PREPARE REPLY

RECOMMENDATION

RETURI

SIGNATURE

FYI: THOUGHT THAT THIS MAY BE OF

INTEREST. YOUR COPY.

POSTIC/LA

6448/9054

TUBE:

BS- 2

3 MAY 77:

Posed

NSF 297

---

## Page 33

Tun suban Ruonstonando Boscha

Newimes

NUNFINFOR FISH MUNEIL FOR PEOPAE

AMERICAS

KIHHER WATHER

BY LAWRENGE WRIGHI

---

## Page 34

"I am going

to declare war"

It hnd been i long time since Dr.

Orlando Bosch had talked to a reporter.

'He had been a fugitive for three yeary

ever since he boasted he was going " un-

derground to direct the internationaliza-

tion of the war" against his one-time

comrade Fidel Castro. Sometimes, as he

Hew from one Latin American capital to

another, he would forget what name he

had decided to nse and would hegin furs.

bling among his four phony passports.

He had onc: been a practicing pe-

diatrician, first in Cuba, then in Miami.

but for more than 20 years now the tools

of his real trade fud been instruments of

dent) plastic explosives, rifles and ba-

zookas. He led a group of Cuban eniles

Impilcated In some'150 bombings and

some 30 murders in the last two years

(New Times, October 29, 1976). His

group had been linked to the car-bomb

massmination of Chilean exile londer Or

Immo Latelier in Washington, D.C., last

Deptember, and now he was under arrest

In Carena, Venezuela, charged with or.

dering the bombing of a Caban commer.

din mirilner inat Octuber 6, which killed

9) people. He la one of the most famous

taproriate in the world,

A Call, henvy-set man with thicke

Binson, ho wan alting In the sun in the

Carmans prison when I walked up to him.

•Dr. Booch?" lanked hesitantly,

"You""" ho replied.

I triroduced mynalf an a ronorter

from New York. Ho squinted an ho care.

fully looked me over.

"How did you sat in here?" ho

ashod suapletously.

I told him I had onlied his lawyer

two weeks hotore ani toon lotd to dome

down do Vonomon. ly she dimo I aro

rived, hio lawyer And gino on vacation

and l couldn's rosen him. A uno In de.

*pal, I'd Mown 9,000 mlles for nothing.

By Blake Fleetwood

Orlando Bosch is in a

Venezuelan jnil, charged

with ordering the bomb,

ing of a Cuban plane in

which 73 people died.

In an exclurive inter

vlew, he talke about him

years as a terrorint, hin

secret alliances with

Latin American govern-

mente and hin plone to

got even with thie

"traitors" who put

him In jall

It seemed that it would be impossible to

see Bosch. I knew that Joannc Omang of

the Washington Post had spent weeks in

Caracas trying to see Bosch and hadn't

been successful. In desperation I had

called another lawyer; who surprised me

with a simple suggestion. "Tomorrow is

visiting day,"' he said. "Be there at 8

m.m. and maybe you can get in."'

As eighe the next morning. I

showed up at the prises gates and saw

two lines of visitors waiting to enter the

prison. On the left were about 300 worr

en burdened down with baskets of fruit,

pies, cakes and fresh linen for their in

prisoned menfolk. To the right stood the

four male vistore to the prison. In a few

minutes the line started to move and I

followed along. I pessed a table whare

someone naked me for my cédula. Al

though I understand ecse Spanist, this

was not a word I knew. Everyone else!

handed him what looked like an I.D.

card, so I took out my fussport. Ha look

It and sava me a unall pinatic lub. One

of the arards, into ipoke a rough, bout

try Spanish that was difeuls to. under.:

sland, auld me le pus dorn my briefcase:

ad unhared ma. Into & oman bathroom

where 1 men frisked. Thee my brtefence

was quindly wearched and handed trak

to me. I followed the other lour men;

(brough two barred anten. And ullanly

I redlied I was In tho prleon at Marly

lu lind Bunch among the bidians robod

one, I neied on of the mura respectabia.

lowkina prisonere where I could frit Or-

lando Horch.

•Yma ra ln the ironm place alton

gather. 1'10 cookin yone to hidma." Arad Pa

do through endlose enridors and coil.

::bloako, Wo andod up ln a sunil court.

vord in a seillon ol the prisun received:

for spedial prisonero. He mulned 10 a

man t0 logs away, we ll he didn's want to

---

## Page 35

eet too close to the rost famous killer in

adl of South America

"Over thee sat

one point the estay had in to die

mite and C-d explosives for blowing ip

Cutan enics on ils payroll.

- hips. He also fred and put in firing con-

that table. That's hin."

Bosch interrupled hamacht and

Sition the bazooka Bosch used against

I told Bosch that not only hadn't

toot si 1o his cell, a small six-ty-cisha-

the Polishi ship. Morales testified that

they asked me whom I was going to sec.

fool rooma lined with Spanish tile a silpa-

Bosch had said he was sorry that the

burt that they had sonchow missed the

per. A small Sony television sal un a

bomb he planted in a ship called the Osa.

compact tape recorder in my briefcase.

shelf in the corner, and there were fresh

le Mari went off in Tampa Bay, because

Bosch, as it turned ouf, was anxious to

"designer" sheets on the bed: Bussch in

"The thing that he wanted was for that

talk to a foreign reporter, saying that the

troduced his cellmate, Luis Rosala vis

ship to blow up ourside in the middle of

Venezuclan government had prevented

is also being held in connection with the

•the sea because he was anxious to see all

other interviews. For six hours, over the

plane bombing. Posada pulled out a tax

the Japs swimming and screaming; Wee.

din of homemade drums in a nearby

of Havana cigars and offered me une:

wee, wee!' while the ship was sinking."

courtyard, he poured out his story.

"America msy have an embargo against.

Bosch was sentenced to ten years

Cliban cigars, but we dr : ?."

in federal prison, bus was freed on parole

*Fidel Castro and I were born in

• Bosch and Posada had worted

on November 1, 1972

Cuba the same month 50 years ago. We.

rogether during the heyday of ClAspsn-

During his imprisonment, Bosch's

both came from fairly prosperous mid-

sored anti-Castro activities in the eaily

wife had left him. His voice broke as he

die-class families. We both ended up at

sixties,

including bombing missions

told me about is. "This fight cost me my.

the University of. Havana in the late

aganst Cutan sigar mils and sunhoa!

family and my five kids. They love me

1940s. I was in medical school and presi

attacks against Castro's fishing boath

and are very proud of their daddy, but I

dent of the student council, and Castro

But, in 1963, alter the Clan missile eri

was in jail for five years when they really

was a delegate to the atudent council

sis and the subsequent reduction of mati

needed me. They were 13, 11. 10, 8 and

from the law school. Although we had

Castro activities by the Kennedy ad

5. They grew up without me. You know

our differences, we worked together of-

ministration. Bosch realized that the

how society is there, all the drugs and

ten and were both elected to our post

CLA was no longer wholeheartedly com

crime. I wasn't a very good husband."

tices from. the same

political party,

mitted to his cause. "I fell hetrayrd by

Bosch has always lived simply,

which was very much in the center be-

wearing a succession of old baggy suits,

tween the right. and left. It's not like to

often staying at the sium houses of his

day when all Latin American universities

«The Dominican

supporters.

*If I had stayed in Miami

are dominated by Marxists. We were

government let me stay

and practiced medicine I would have

both very anticommunist and anti-Batis

in the country.and

made many millions by now. But I could

tu and very nationalistic. "

Bosch left Cuba in 1952 for two

organize 'actions." !

not do that while my country was in ago.

ny. I have paid very much for the arug

years of internship in pediatries al Tole: Wasn't going to church

ale, very expensively, but that's the only

do Hospital in Ohio. "When I finished in

every day. We were

way I know. Sometimes a man has a

1954, I returned to my hometown of San-

ta Clara and set up a practice as a pedia-

conspiring there.

higher duty than to his children. Some

times a man has a duty to his homeland.

trician. But the tyranny of the Batists

Planning bombings and

That's the duty Ifeel."

dictatorship made me join up with Car-

killings"

Soon after hi» relense from prie

tro again.""

on, Besch's sense of duty took an omi

*The

Batista dictatorship

nous new turn. Detente between the

choking un. I became the lender of the

the Kennedy adminintration and by the

United States and Communist countries

July Illa Movement in my province and

ClA: They hold out a dream so un ind

was chilling to the militant Cuban exiles.

we won the fight. I was appointed to the

then let ua dowe. "

A now exile group fo med the National

government as a minister of communice.

His own militancy had only in

• Front for the. Libertion of Cuba. or

loa. But even as the war was ending, we:

cressed: An exile group he led cinimed

FLNC,. snid to be modelad after the Pal-

ware baving problema with the commu

credit for. 11 bombing attacke againat Cu

antician terrorista, Soon an FLNC death

nims. Thay vare taking over everything.

bam territory; sin times Bosch wns ar

'llet began to circulate around Little Ha-

I compininad, I fought againue li, but

rested for violating U.S. neurality, inws:

vana, and then one anile leader on that

there was nothing I could do. Al the time,

Finally, on September 16, 1918, ho was

Int, Joso Elims de In Torrianto, was a.

I sull had falth In Castro and his revolu

caught in the act of firing a makenhin bai..

sanatnuted. Ricardo. Morales namrowry.

dom. But then it got too bad, and after a.

sooka inso the hull of a Pollah ship

anomped death. when a bont esploded

month I resigned from the government.

docked in Miami,

under the front sont of bie car. The hil

That's when I arted conspiring agninet

Most of lie: tallmony: against

amf homlelde egund wanted to lalk to

Booch at hiu sut esquend trial came from

Bosch, but ho had disappeared.

Monah told me about the group of

Ricardo Morales Navarutso, Mscales lon

A few morho Inter, in a clandos-

ant Castro guerriline he had led In the

man of many hate terrories, Informant,

Une Interview with-the Mlam News.

Becambray mountalna in Cuba In 1960.

hit man, mercenary and cop, He nad

Bosch praised the Torrente amateing

Coatro, Bosch saye, sentenced him 10.

been an agent in Castro'e escret palloe, a

flon an "a nood lemon to the exile com.

denth. After running out of supplies, ho

• ClA operative, : paid informant fue the.

munity, no thai no one die will now

and Me followere fed to Morida, where

FBl, an anent provoenour, on anil-Che-

come furth with shony theoren to foot

they found a benefacior In the ClA, Al

tre demories, Todny he la a top Venone.

and rob the peopio."' Novarthelesa, he

lan seret police offolal.

disclaimed direct reaponalblty, and said

Now

York

freelance

Blake

Bough and Muralos mal la flami

ho had gone emerground because he let

Peewood Imal wrote lor. New Timan on

In 1060, Moralea, auding on Inerractione

colnoldentally vlolated hie parole by

mereury poloning in Canada,

from the Pad, nupplled Bosch wih dyse-

traveling to New Jersey ernund the line

Catal 14,0.

---

## Page 36

ol the assassination. But, he added, "'

went undergruund to direct the interna

tionalization of the war. ! thought that

• the action prople [terrorists) should get

out of the U.S. and operate frum differ.

ent bases throughout Central and Soulb

•America." In the nest 18 months. four

of the ten peuple on the FLNC list were

killed, and a fifth had his legs blown off.

During that period, Bosch was

traveling widely in the Caribbean. (Did

Be ever slip back into the U.S.? Hosch

linghed. "'If I have to go to the United

States.. I co."*) His main goal was 10

forge: alliances with friendly covern-

ments in Nicaragua, the Dominican Re-

public. Costa Rica and Venezuria-all

countries

with powerful Cuban exile

communities.

Bosch-claims that he made his

first pact with the Venezuelan govern-

ment in 1974. He had entered Venezuela

from the Dominican Republic in June of

that year, using a false Dominican pass-

port in the name of Pedro Penya.

*We

set oft a bomb in front of the Panamani-

embassy in Carseas. We chose the

lOth of October because that is the date

the liberation of Cuba was announced

in 1898. We did il because the Torrijos

dictator (Panama's president) announced

that he was going to Havana, and he did.

and he kissed Castro. A: the beginning

the muthorities blamed some Panamanian

general who was in exile here. About

two weeks inter a Communist Cuban of-

ficial was invited to speak at the Vene.

muetan-Cuban friendship club. I infiltrat.

«d Into the audience and before the guy

could sponk the whole thing blew up. We

had to do it. We didn't want to hurt any

one, but we just dida't want the guy to

tallie.

"I continued conspiring all that

tall, ralning money and planning bomb.

imm and other actions. But about the

middie of November I was arrested by

tho DISIF (the Veneruslan secres politie

anl pollen). Thay denied to the preas that

I was In the country or even under ar-

rod, (The U.S. know of Boseis'e delen.

lon, bur passed up the opportanty 1o

extradite him.) Then I made my firet fur.

mal moment with tho Vonazumian nov.

ommons. I dealt with Nives Vanquer und

Orlando Carcin (recond and third in

command of the Disill

**I promised that no more artlona

malnat Cantro'n freme would he inkon

In Caracua, and they promised me in tiw

name of Proadent Carloe Andren Perez.

Ind no high offledal of the Cuban realma

would be milamnd into Venoronto:"

Munch was then rolanned. He flew

to Curasso, where he mat with Celler.

mo Novo and other Cuban calle lenders

LYNCHBURG has some of the oldest homes

in Tennessee. And the oldest registered

distillery in America.

Ies name, of course, is jack Daniel's. Where

we still make whiskey the way Mr. Jack

made it in 1866. And then smooth it our

with his age-old charcoal mellowing process.

If you're interested in

old Tennessee homes,

we'd be glad to show

you around Lynchburg.

CHARCOAL

MELLOWED

Il you're curlous about

pid Tennessee Whiskey,

DROF

let a sip of Jack Daniel's

be your guide:

BY DROP

Pennesson Whiskey • 90 Prool • Qutiled and Hotled toy lach Daniel lottery

Lem Mellow, Prop, Ine, lynchburg (Pop 1019, fenn. 3/308

Plosed in the Notional Magear ul Motora Places or Uni Mated Statue Governerent,

---

## Page 37

from the U.S. "'From Curaces, " he "

'Nore and l llew to Chile and mach

ul effort there." Bosch liver in. Chile

from December 1974 to Detenter 1975.

where he had another family with a Chi-

lean woman. According fu press reports.

he lived as a guese of the sure

rent in a

goverament apartment. "I ga

bed sever-

al times from Chile lu Argentina. We

tried to shoot some Cuhan diphenats in

the middle of 1975 ani we set off a bomb

at the Mexican

embassy. in Ruenos

Aires. We made

goud

contacts there

with members of the triple-A party la

right-wing extremise group). Because of

the contacts we made down there, we set

up the murder of sio Cuban diplomats.

That was part of the agreement I had

with them. On August Ith last year, I had

a call from our p-ople down there. They

said, 'You read the papers today?''

Bosch then made a slashing motion from

Was Bosch Involved? Orlando Loteller (top) was murdered in Wanhington, D.C.

The bombing of a Cuban (al o1 Barbados illed 73, in bottom phots, mecue

workara examine a body pulled from the water

one and of hie threat to unnther. Thie two

mambora of the Cuban embasay In Ar.

gantina whe were annunped Augunt®

Inal your, and who have mit bean hourd

from sirco, apparemty will mit be honid

from eunin,

"We have connote wih people.

Who has all over balin Amortin ind ovon.

Carlos Rivero Collade, a former

Juban est: lender mho has retured to

Cuba. has minen that Bosch receired

special israction in assasumation and

personal arachis during his year in Chile

from the Chilean National Intelligence

Departmeni. "The purpose tehind the

training nas to have Bosch assassinate

Antres Pascal Allende, nephew of the

slain Chilean president.'" he write.

hiconding in former Cost Rican

Foreign Minister Gonzlo Facio, Bosch

arrive in his country with the Andres

Pascal assassination assignment given to

him by the Chilean junta. Using a Chi

lean passport, a Chilenn driver's license

and other Chilean documents in the

name of Hector D'Avanzo Cintoless.,

Bosch entered the country from Nicara-

gus where, according to Facio, he had

met with 'close aides of President Anas-

tasio Somora."" On the basis of intelli

gence reports Bosch was detained in

5

Costa Rica; and, while being held, ac

cording to Facio, "he told interrogators

he intended to Will Secretary of State

Kissinger, who was due to arrive here

soon thereafter. " Bosch admitted to me

that he had been in Costa Rica, but

would not acknowledge any role in the

alleged assassination plots.

*After leaving Cost R/ca I went

to live in Santa Domingo until August of

1976. I had a number.of good frienca:

there and we planned many action.

*The Dominican government let

me stny in the country and organine ac

toms. I wasn't going to church every

day. We were conspiring there. Planning

bombings and killings. People were;

coming in and going out. I was plotsims

wich swem: Scerctly, of course."

Bosch's ploting culminated in a

secret meeting of the top terrorin laud.

crn of the hemisphere in the Dominican

Repablic. ' The atory of CORU (Coordi-

nation of the United Revolutionary-O%

gandantions] is true," he told me, "Thara

wan a meeting in the Bonno mountains of

20 men representing all diflorens (Cuban

emilm) setivist orgnizations, ll wan a

meating of mil the military and polliten!

directors with revoluttonary Impllen

tons. It was o went mesting. Everything

was planned there, "

The top men from Alpha 66 (New

Jersey), Abdalnh (a Now

York-pared

youth group), the 1906 Brigade (veterans.

In Herope, After dolng everything that la

posalble to the Boura Cone (Chile, Aro

gentina and Uruguayl, we had three

of the Hay of Pige Invaelon), HLNG, F14

(New York City) and Avalon Cutsana (a

group Fouch handed) met for two days 1n

the Moone mountaine In early June, 1916.

was mit undy the inh that we did hus alad.

she Imago and relatmanipe inat we ea.

Umbrella be lend there, in

umbrella prisonandon,. 1'ONU,

Inhlahad white we were down thore. Mosch no the only lentlled spokesman

which was the main purpoce."

and lender.

---

## Page 38

'Al last we had all the Cuban red an Dominican Repuhlie In enchange they

stationary lighters and leaders logether..

donald lee me live in Venezuela under an

b0)-; age 931

Up ill thas point. Bosch told me.

after 17 yeart. We decided to upscale the

acion after that. We wanled to beat thi

assured name and organie other terror.

"the part (with Venezuelal mas going

guy (Castro, or al least make his life in-

ists' actions elen here. They wanied ine

perlectly well. In fact, I nas supponed lo

les include ranana and Guynna:

possible. I lott them that we couldn'

"I'said emphatically; so: l agreed.

meet with Prositend Perez on (broder

just keep bombing an embassy here and

to include Cosa Rica, but I didn't sam

10, bur then the plane blew up on the data

"and all the trouble started. I had a lot id

• police slation there. We had to start

to include Panama because it is a (leftist]

conversaliura with Garcia. He lived in

taking more

serious actions. hijack-

dictatorship. And I 'didn't want to in

the Annuco Hilton also. I asked him

ing. " (According io a Cuban exile news

paper, one of the resolutions that came

clude Guyana. We had already artacked

what should I do and he said, Nothing is

Guyana. The CORU already blew up the

•Joing lo happen, just: sy quiet. Don't

out of that mecting was a vow "to begin

Guyana embassy in Trinidad.

warry.everything is going to be nice.'

artacking Castro's planes in the air. " y

"Finally: they

said, 'All righs.

'Then cue day he calls me up and

*I accepted the leadership of

CORU because I wanted to sel every

We'll just include the three countries.

says, "The president wants you to siny

You can do what you want in all the oth-

here (al the police headquarers). No

thing up on an organized basis. We were

ers.' They offered me use of weapont..

problem. You'' he iale." But I have

tired of being frustrated and not accom

but I refused, saying that we already had been under 'protective cusicidy" for sey

plishing everything that we wanted to

all that we could use. They offered me. en months now, and lit' president has

do. "'Bosch brought the other leaders up.

bodyguards from the DISIP (the secret

said on television that I was a member of

to-date on the kind of help they could ex-

pect in Nicuragun, the Dominican Re-

police], but I didn't need those either.

the CIA and trying to destabilize tis gov

public, Venezuela and Chile. Then the

They gave me an identification card

ernment. "

from the DISIP which I look l think it.

Bosch claims that Orlando Garcta

group dispersed. In the I1 months since

was in the name of Sucre. I was always

has told him to "sit tight, everything will

that meeting. Bosch boasts, CORU has

traveling around the countryside with a

been responsible for over 50 bombings in

great many bodyguards and lots of weap.

be all right. We will let you go as soon as

the publicity blows over." But Bosch is

Miami, New York, Venezuela, Panama,

not sure he believes him, and is getting

Menico and Argentina. (Bosch refused

very impatient. He spoke to me with er-

lo admit any persoaal invoivement in

bombings within the United States; po-

Bosch's secret pact with

treme bitternces about "phe betrayal of

lee sources say the leaders had agreed

Venezuela "was going

the Cuban people"' by the Veneruelans

not to lnke credit for actions within the

U.S. becuuse the FBI was putting 100

perfectly well. In fact, l

who had so recently befriended him. Ho

is even willing to entertain charges that

was supposed to meet

Venezuela set him up from the day he

much heat on thern.)

with President Perez on

was invited to live there. Could his old

Atter the Bonao meeting the Do.

minican gor canment called Bosch in and

told him he was "too hot"" and would

Doroner 10, but then the

archenemy Morales have cleverly gotten

even in thie way?

plane blew up on the 6th

"Some of my frienda unid that

have to leave the country.

and all the trouble

they called me back deliberately to be

"I told them how cowardly they

were and how scared of Castro they had

started"

tray me. I don't know. It in possible."

In any case, Bosch has decided to

ancome, but to no aval, I went back to

Costa Riem, and Oduber (the president),

ons. If I got stoned, I would fust show

resume the offensive.

"When I was

brought to the court tha lace time, report

• to make up for the damnge they had deme

my secret-police cord: and I wouldn't

ers erruded around me, hurt I didnt eng

whom they arrested me (for the alleged

have any problems."

enything. Thay nerd no if I had a DIS.

Kimonger assassination plot], gave me

So Bosch had tound in Venezuela

IP card. I denied i, but I can't keep quiet

turne passports. One from Peru and two

a seamingly secure bane for his terroriat

алутоге.

othere from Coula Alca, Then I want.

activitles. Then, withir a two week perl.

"We're pushad up saninat the

Amck to Nicarague, where I began getting

od lagt fall, two terroriat Incidents.pus.

wali by (Fresidens, Heres. We're going to

phone calla from Orlando Oarcin [securto

the Cuban exiles on the front pages and

accuse him ol betraying un. A traitor 1o

ty nsivier to Venezuelan Preaident Perez

landed Bosch in Jail. The Pirat was the

democracy, a traitor io lia Cuban, und

and a top offiser in the DISIP). Garcia

September. 21 assassination in Washing-

miao a traitor to the American cause, I am

told eno that he had been jonging with the

president no exercisas. with the prent

ton, D.C., of Chilean exile lender Or.

going to daciare war on the Venezuelan

lando Loteller, whose car blew up as he

sovernment in lee same of the Cuban,

dont every dage and shat Perer had told

tim to Invite me to Vener

In to make a

drove past the Chilean embaasy In Short.

causa. I don't sire ince i am suing In

dan Cirele. Cuban exiles were immedi-

jw. Peror lo a trultor. He was making a

don), I dido't pay may attention, but after

ntely suspected of carrying out the crime

no called me three times and sent me n

no hit men for the Collean junta.

pact with Castro at the same time that;e

visa, lemme,

The second was the October 5ax.

wan makinan pact with un.

* "*'If they mant to put me on triml,

"At the airport I was met by

ploaion In flight oi a Cuban airline fai

tho y will aíno novo to accume the miniater

Carola and Ricardo Morales like man

shonly after takeoff from Barbados, All

of ine Interior, the DISIP direstor mo

whone tealmony had sent Hoesh to jall,

79 persons nhoard were billed. The neut

tho prostdans, Theno nsople consprud

and who lind by that time hocome a high

day, two Cuban exties, Hernan Ricardo

with me. They should to pug on jall an

offlelal in the DIBIP), Thay took me to a

and Freddy Lugs, were urrented In Trint.

well,

lunarlone govaramone apartment In lho

Ananoo Hilton and we male o deal. I

dad. According lo soret sourt: dock.

"Did you wo the Vinin (Voroto,

need thus there would not ho any no-

ments ohinined by Now Tints, tray care

lon Atrinal office blown up In. Puerto

Wons In Venerunt, Coate Nue und the

fennad to planting a humb in die piano

Ales gecterday'l My Cubans Hew li up.

and impllumed Orlario Wash lose tie

tore talenty in goings le sabe ermells for l0.

---

## Page 39

"The bus has left

with the dogs":

How they blew up

the Cuban plane

The head mile a big bulge in

Ricardy's pothel and he was very

here, no matter a here.

They caughi a Nane to Trenniad.

leaving theis hugs in the hotel rove m

Il task only a few minures in ibe

Barhalis: On the plane kicardo buried

railer, tul then Ricardo lound his

his heal in his haris arl san to Lago.

wuldn't proud. He panicked aid

"Shit, Lugo! I'm desperase and I feel:

started banging on the door. The

like crying. I have never hilled anyoor.

slewardess tried to open the door from.

- before."

The following account of the

Bombing of she Cubana Airline jet is

basel on secret Vene union cunt

documents. Most of the infurmation

comes from lhe confessions: since

repudiated, of the men chaped with the

crime.

the outside. bad i' ecuuldn't. She

Althe Holiday Inn in Trinidad

called unre of the pilois from the .

Ricanlo called Posch, " ho told him.

cockpit who kicked at it three times' -

•Friend, we have to see each other in

with his four. Finally the deer opened.

Caracas. Y'ou never should emplode a

anel Raando stumbled out. By the lime..: bomb while a plane is in the air."

re pol tock to his seat he was drenched

*:.. Meanwhile, the Barbados cab

in sweat an appeared very nervous.

driver. struck by Ricardo's erratic

For the rest of the flicht Ricardo held a

beharia. had contacted the police.

Heman Ricardo, 22, had been

newspaper in front of his face.

They tracked Ricardo and Lugo 10

working at the private delective office

They gor off the plane in

Trinidad. In their hotel room the police

of Luis Posada in Caracas for abouta

Barbados, collected their luggage, and,

found two phone books containing

year when, on September 10, 1976...

made their way to the Hotel Village. At.

many different a dresses, including;

Posada introduced him to a "Mr.

orie point in the cab ride Ricardo told ?

hose of Orlando Bösch: Liris Posad

Panyagun * Posada assigned Ricardo

the driver to stop, jumped out and:

and Joseph Leo, an FBI legal suache in

"to heip." Mr. Panyagun" gef arouni, as

looked up at a passing plane. He was

the United States embassy in Caracas

WIS & ILian

ger in the country. Alter

very agitated and nervous.

The Trinidad police separated

a few doys of helping "" Mr. Panyague

:.. "*Lugo desc

cribed the scene ten

Lingo and Ricardo and during the ;

Ricardo realized that he was really i

minutes later as follows. "The people;

questioning thas followed over the nex

Ortando Bosche

**the maximunt lender

in the streets were very agitated and.

few days the police threatened to -0

of the Cuban people.

pointiny up to thesky, saying that a

send them back to Cuba unless they Co

Act -On the night of Octolr S.

plane had fallen. Ricardo said that we

talker! they both confessed. Ricardo:

Ricardo, Bouch and Freddy Lugo, 23

: were in big trouble because we had

; told Pulice Chief Denis Ellion Randwai

met at a Cuban exile meeting: A!

traveled on false passports. At the :!

that he had planted the bomb on the

midnighe that same day. Ricardo and

hotel Riendo told me to take the bags

airplane. He also sait, I am a mer

Luno flew to Trinidad aboard a Pan.

up to the room while he registered inerd

of a secret orgr.s

Americ

riflight They stayed overnight.

falso name: He nail his was callius sus

and the hext morning inquired about:

Vonenuela for advice:

ion is Orlando

Cubana Airline flight 4SS, stopping in

..; He had dificulty getting

added that he

CLA

Barbedos en route to Cuba. The clerk

through. One eall that he did ger !:

of the grade B-!!

Told them that the Cuban plane had

through was to his girlfriend, Marines

recruited in 197!

"been detuyed: but that there wis

Vegas. She teatified that he gave her a

had received trainine

another flight to Barbados leaving.:

number and told her to get the

manufacturing of be

Immediately, Ricardo protestal, bue:

fulluiving message to Luis or Gustave

ot trecans and phos

had trouble getting his message across st

• Tell them i am in a desperate

Gince his English was not very good,

siluation and that they

ould send

eit Standing behind Ricardo In line

someone quick. That this is a quicion

were i few members of Cuba's His

of life or death and that the bus has

champlenship fencing team. who were

"left with the dogs." Tell then that l

Pettinina home ofter an interuational.,

Ivew away the phone numbers:,

Your. One of the fencers, also boaked

S Ricardo got a pirone call hack

•en Cubana fight 439, translated for

from Carcas during which Lugo

Ricardo: "He saye that he doent't want

quotes him sa saying,

"What's

'to go on on earlie fight. He only wants:

happening

¿o travel on Cubana 435 and ho's

302022 PREDE

now what to do t

wlleg on walt unill lt'a ready to go.

• The bug

no the water? Tal

Lugo and Ricardo each shocked

Ihia to P

(Ronch)," T

e bag, and Lago carried with bin a'dark

so put down the phone:"

allluntur shoulder big with we"

Rivamlu saw someone ataria at him

emmerns and a tube of Colgate

and ran up to the room in a paro. Lugo.

maya Ricardo told taro, "Tal'e gescua*.

Pencure, 6 mediual austente from

uf here rinht away, The man wha u

Mouth Amoron, 9 Moreans and 45

alared nt me lo the lohly la a 0-2 lagant

other, mostly Cuban, passengare and

«of Cantro's norst poilue)."

arow, lango and Ricardo finally get un

¡no, ''We took a cab to the docke,"

the plane, About hulf-way through the

Lugo mill, 'and Ricardo shrew

20-minute Maho, Maardo goup lo gulo

nothing in the water, then no unlal.

She hathroup to plant the emplarive:

poisemen he drew spicture o

bomb and described the plastic.

ve that had been us

ho kapt the * pencil'? detonmtor

tube of Colgate toothpaite

colored chamiend pencils

morld tri

an explosion in & minutes,

As minute

2 hours: O hours or 24 hours hobale

He and he had been paid in

öblant the bomb. at cany

2•Or October 29 alter signing d

confersion, Ricardo tred to ku

himsalt by alashing his wrist.

maor, but he was taken to the houplual

and nurvived!

$!..

'At funeral dervices for thom

Atlied on the plane, Fidal Caalro..

charged that the CIA was directly

responable for the hamhing. Ab

result, he farminated the hijacking

maronment Cults had aloned with the

Unlian! fintens

7109:44

---

## Page 40

14-00000

This is junt a messeg:. Tbere will be a

couple of messages eore."

I ask tell him if there eras giung la

be a kidnapping anempe against Vene-

morian diplomals. (Aa FBI informant re

ported a plan to kiinap the Vero zuelan

ambassador to the United Nations

March. The ambassador was informed

and surrounded with extra security.)

Bosch repled: "There are going to be a

lot of thines after I declare war. This is

goung to be a tremeadous risk for me bo.

cause l'l will be in jail. After the war

declaration there are guing to be a lot of

bountines, a lot of kidnappings, a lot ol

shootings. We have to altack everything

encept their planes; in the air. Their of

fioes on land, yes."":

And what about the spectacular

crimes that put the Cuban exiles in the

apollight?

Cuban movemment officials have

told recent American visitors that Or

lundo Bosch was enlinted and paid by the

Chilean junta to carry out the Letelier

@assination.

Bosch, they claim, par-

• Bosch concedes that

the Cuban exiles

discussed Orlando

Letelier. *Chilean

officials told me many

times when I lived there

that they wanted him

dead"

caled out the money to other members of

CORU who actually blew up. Letelier.

Bosch conesdes that the Cuban exiles

«discued Orlando Letelier at [the Bo»

mo) meeting, and the fact that iLet-

•Hem'al campalsa llo discredie sto junta

brond) was bothering some of our

Crienda la Chile. Chilsan cificials solú me

many tmoo whon l livad there diat they

wanted Mies desd." But Bouch deniad

nowing anything about the Latelier s

annuiration.

"Evan le I did know," ho

added, "I wouldn'; toll anyone. I'm nota

atool piason or an Informar."

According to n confidential intelli.

monow recort obtained by New Times,

aowever, alcere was dut di calloent

@bout tha Lateller onse when quastioned

• Venomeian euthortee shurly afte

a arrant, Tho report Matos. thas Moag

told Alvas Vanques, &

econd in command

of DIsIP, that, while ho had mithing to:

do with the Lateller aseme ination,

*the

Novo brothere me direcily Invalved, "

Mullermo and Ignacla Novo are

Among ine most milliant and activiet Cle

ban enile leaders in the United Sumes

They west arrested in 195d for fring. a

bazooka at the United Nations utile Che

Gurrara was soraling nere, but charges

were dropped because they were not

read their righis belore they, confessed

•Guillermo Novo (or Bill, as he is towa

al the Chevrolet dealership in Union

City. New Jersey, where he is a newcas

sales manager) wee sentenced lo fve

years in jail in 1971 for possession of es-

plosives. He served six months, and was

eiven probation for five years. Under the

terms of his parole he was not allowed lo

leave New Jersey. But Bosch told me of

two foreign lips Bill Novo took--the

first do Curacao and Chile, the soconú lo

Bonao. Bill Now could be sent back to

mil for these trips in violation of pa-

role which he denies making.

Bosch's stery to Vasquez about

the Novos' involvement in the Letelier

murder correlated with a story that had

been told to authorities by an FBI infor-

mant in Washington. (Contrary to re

ports in most American papers, no U.S.

official has been allowed by the Vene.

zuelan government to see Bosch.), On the

bass of these two leads Eugene Propper.

the Assistant U.S. Altorney in charge of

the Letelier investigation, has called

about ten Cuban exile leaders before a

Washington grand jury. Bill Novo was

called before the Latelier grand jury

twice, and twice iook the Fifth Amend

ment. The government has now begun

offering limited immunity to some of the

other Cuban exiles, hoping to force them

to talk. Recently a friend of Bill Novo'g

wan jailed after refuning to testify before

the grand jury about Novo's travels to

Curacao. -

tired?

Au for Bosch, his future is un-

clear, Venezuelan legal experte any the

Weelhood of conneting tim in the air-

plane explosion case is not great. Ricar.

do and Lugo, the chief potential wit-

nesses against him, have repudiated their

confessions after being deported lo:

confesslone made In Trinkind tre not d

mirabia in Venesucian courtroome: The

govemment has lapes of Nicardo'e tele

phone calla to Veneruela, but these, too,

are inadmiesible, since they were not obs

tminod legally, It la thus entrely posalble

ihmi Bouch will be released,

Il that happons, he will mraly slip

asin Into the violent, murky world

where desperate men are alternataly

uned end hetrayed by the seorit agenotes

of governmenta, It lo a for ory from the-

Nto of a promperoua podiatriolen, a famlo

ly man; • piller of hie community, But

"sone of vo" as ho lot mo, "have oil.

er rulea te plag, "o

RESEARCH

SEND $2.00 for large eataloy of preme

ten desearch Original wring alo. Fro

osmorial; Reasorble: Fast infarmaton

Clearinghouse. Ron 4391. Washingtur

D.C. 20012 (202) 727-1715

NOTICE:

Record Raters Wanted

(NO ®*

nas required.) Each mal

onty a

handung

banks a subs

coP;

reid

Fo

trod fartians

EAR.S, INC, Dept. NT, Box 10141,

5521 W. Conter St, Mltemukoa, WI 53210

The research program is guarantond.

New Times

Subscriber

Note: Your present

abscription will

and with the lonee

noted in the upper

Me comer o

Entortram a now

monto bliesh the labet

subwarationte

Check the box and

jar your sid address bare

11l in your name

and write in your

and addrome balow.

(To ordor guit mub

sorplione gienie

altach a saparate

sheet),

Ranswimit Cheats

the box below and

mane sure four

mating oddress is

dorreat.

There i

whale form lor

How Times

P.Q, Пох 10040:

Deo Moines

Sowa 80900

an additional

harge ot 2.0000

Bat to cove

postage and nate

ding of lenues

to Canada,

Plane «ела New TIme Or & Year, OV0.00

New subeaription

• Payment engiesee

THE U LING

Audrei

• 706006ь

---

## Page 41

14-00000

CABLE SEC DISIAN DR.

PERSON WAIT ACTED

BETION UNIT

-"."

Trai crets

• 7-1

SECRET

TUR

DEFERRED TELEPOUCH

RE.

FILE.

9 628665

E1 A171

PAG: 81

TOR: 241805Z FEB 77

SECRET 2417352 FES 77 DEFERRED TELEPOUCH

CITE

54654

TO & WASHINGTON.

FOR: LA/COG INFOS EMB

SUBJECT: WN INTELA RY GATE MASAIKE

BRIEFING OF

ON "ORLANDO CASE"

REF!

DIRECTOR 991?79

IN ACCORDANCE WITH. REF.

WAS BRIEFED

IN GENERAL TERMS ON "ORLANDO CASE".

HAS TOLD

THAT THERE IS A

THAT STATION

IS IN CONTAGT WITH HIM: AND THAT ME: MIGHT BECOME EWARE

OF DETAILS OF A CUBAN EXILE FORMER MEMBERS BRIGADE 25009

PLOT TO COMMIT A TERRORIST ACT AGAINST. A CUBAN OFFICIAL

IN

SAID NE HAD HEARD NOTHING OF

THIN, AND ABPRECIATED BEING ADVISED. DID NOT REVEAL

BOURCE IDENTITY OR LOCATION, AND ME DID NOT ASK FOR ANY

DETAILS. ME WAS OIVEN NAME OF|

SHOULD HE HAVE ANY QUESTIONS, ME IMPORT.

IN 197268

34 654

RECORD COPY

119-30828

0101-199292

---

## Page 42

OUTGOIN MESSAGE

BABANA CANTAN!

1.:

OMF 9

D

#00+7908848-6

SECRET

THAN 1A9 MENEATEN

D

P DI

0808002

0298209

TWER

TO: IMMEDIATE DEPARTMENT OF TREASURY-Y

Killer

ATTENTION: U.S- CUSTOMS SERVICE: ATTENTIDi MR. CHARLES BUTERA

SECRET/WARNING NOTICE-SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS IN-

VOLVED-NO FOREIGN DISSEM N

•SUAJECT:.

REFS.

INTER-AGENCY MEETING ON THE "ORLANDO CASE" Y

THE FOLLOWING SUMAMARIZES THE DISCUSSIONS HELD BETUEEN

MESSRS• VIRUSIO AND BUTERA OF U.S. CUSTOMS SERVICE, AHD CIA REPRESENT-

ATIVES ON Y FEBRUARY 1977 CONCERNING SUBJECT. THE PURPOSE OF THE

MEETING WAS T

• TO ARRIVE AT A I

MUTUALLY AGREED UPON COURSE OF ACTION IN THE EVENT SUBJECT IS CON.

TACTED BY MILITANT. CUBAN EXILES FOR THE PURPOSE OF PARTICIPATING IN A

LOCÄLM TERRORIST ACT. M

THIS AGENCY TOOK THE POSITION THAT IF SUQJECT SHOULD PROVIDE

CONNECTIN

EPORSCUND CREDIOLE INFORMATION INDICATING THAT AMALATINCANINO

APPUP INTENDO TO CONDUCT A TERRORIST ACT IN SPAIRN, THEN THIS AGENCY

INGENICH T

STANCHUN WOULD HAVE LITTLE RECOURSE

word.

019-300-18

1CASM0 000000

# RECORD COPY

0770

08Fe6-77

+934-399282

TOA90 00000

IMPOUT

---

## Page 43

OUTGOING MESSAGE

DUBA ONLY

900

Tre

mme

D

0

.0

OMF 0

ERASE ANN

SE REI

08804199

CONF:

BUFO: FILE

CIA

982910

BUENLE

20 I0E.

PETUNE TO . PER

DISSEM BY:

ÜBUT TO ALERT THE PROPER SPAVISH AUTHORITIES & THE IMPENDING PLOT-Y

3. AGENCY REPRESENTATIVES REAFFIRMED THAT ALL REASONABLE STEPS

WOULD DE TAKEN TO TRY TO PROTECT THE IDENTITY OF THE SOURCE WHEN

PASSING VITAL INFORMATION

HOWEVER. IT WAS

POINTED OUT THAT THE AGENCY COULD NOT FÜLLY GUARANTEE THAT SUBJECTS'S:

NAME WOULD NOT BE DISCLOSED OR UNCOVERED BY LOCAL AUTHORITIES, IN THEIR

FOLLOWUP INVESTIGATION SINCE MUCH WOULD DEPEND ON THE DEGREE OF

SUBJECT'S INVOLVEMENT. Y

4. U.S• CUSTOMS REPRESENTATIVES EXPRESSED CONCERN THAT SUBJECT

UNDERTAKE NO ACTIVITY WHILE

THAT MIGHT VIOLATE LOCAL LANS.

THEY AGREED THAT THE DECISION MADE BY

•WAS CORRECT IN THAT SUBJECT SHOULD AVOID THE PROCURING OF WEAPONS

POR THE CUBAN EXILE GROUP WHICH ARMANDO LOPEZ ESTRADA HAD REQUESTED. Y

:!. IN RESPONSE TO A QUERY BY U.S. CUSTOMS OFFICIALS, IT WAS

STAZO THAT U.S: NAVAL INTELLIGENCE SERVICE

WILL

SERVE SONLY AS AN ALTERNATE COMMUNICATION LINK FOR SUBJECT TO USE IN.

THE EVENT OF AN EMERGENCY, SUZA

THIS AGENCY WOULD CONTINUC TO

MANDLE SUBJECT CASE.

AS HAS DEEN REQUESTED BY U.S. CUSTOMS

CRIe

WINe

WATe

130тD 903 00P080

IMPORT

---

## Page 44

14-00000

OUTGOIN MESSAGE

A RO

0:°

0

SECRET

WARBAGE HANG ATON

CONF:

INFO: FILE

CIA

982910

o00

DESSER SY:

a pen, 9

SERVICE. Y

bi CLASSIFIED BY 059405. EXEMPT FROM GENERAL DECLASSIFICATION

SCHEDULE OF E-O• 11652 EXEMPTION CATEGORY SE 12). IMPOSSIOLE TO

DETERMINE DATE OF AUTOMATIC DECLASSIFICATION."

LA COMMENT:

REF PROVIDED REPORT OF TORMLANDO'S MEETING WITH

STATION WHICH WAS FORWARDED TO U•S. CUSTOMS-

•CABLE SEC: PLS PROVIDE CC TO IP/AN FOR FILING IN 203-0284498%

803-00300228

OPS/LSA: -300-028-

RELEASED PER AUTHORITY!

AC!

foss

BATO I

WNT,

WATe

1 UPC. 97

4633

00

006$29109 000M00

HONE A190

€ BY 81403

IMPDUT

---

## Page 45

14-00000

OUTGOING MESSAGE

BREAL ERNTEDUBRGLY

дв-

OAF O

ane

E186 868951e

SECRET

STAFF

0

DATO PIE ANGUI

03230,2

-=

DIRECTOR CiA

961153

cos

TO: IMMEDIATE DÉPARTMENT OF TREASURY. Y

ATTENTION: U.S. CUSTOMS SERVICE: MR.. CHARLES BUTERA

SECRET/WARNING NOTICE - SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES

INVOLVED/NO FOREIGN DISSEN•

TRAVEL PROCEAN

ANDSME THODS

FRICARE FOR iQ.+190

40. '12.

0P, 2808

SUBJECT!

REF:

THE ORLANDO CASE

CASE MAN BUD

Ern (oi

LACH

HE HAD WITHOU MET

"ORLANDO" SUMO SUBJECT OF REPS, AND INTRODUCTED HIM TO NAVAL

INTELLIGENCE INBURI

REP NIGHT & FEBRUARY 1977.

"ORLANDO" WAS GIVEN

PHONE NUMBERS HE CAN CALL DAY OR NIGHT

TO ARRANGE MEETING WITH NIS REP AT SITE NEAR HYS HOTEL STO WHICH NE

TAKENS TO REPORT IMPORTANT DEVELOPMENTS. SHOULD HE PAIL MAKE CONTACT

IVIA

NUMBERS, "ORLANDO" IS TO CALL NUMBER HE GIVEN

IN

ALL. CASES HE WILL ASK POR "FCLIX.".

"ORLANDO" PROVIDED FOLLOWING INFO DURING & FEB MEETINGI

AS ME MAD TWO MELTINGS WITH JOSE M A CIAS SWHOM HE

DESCRIBED AS CURRENT NUMBER TUO OR BRIGADE 28062 IN MIAMI BEPORE

DATED.

€R01

UNITI

20) 289504

BaTI

B201-289504

0301-9240

RECORD COPY

B801-2101494

014-300-88

03 Fef17

Oh: 5202,2992

5,%

IMPOUT

wv.

---

## Page 46

14-00000

OUTGOING MESSAGE

ONF 0

CRANBEATA

SECRET

STAFF

CONF:•

•0

0

0

AIRECTOR CIA

Two: FIL

прен

ĐN 10081

DISSEM BY:

95/153

COMING

AT FIRST MEETING, MICIAS TALKED ABOUT POSSIBILITY

& BLOWING UP CUBAN AIRCRAFT FLYING FROM

THIS WAS DISCARDED

.AT SECOND MEETING BECAUSE OF PROBLEM OF FINDING EXPLOSIVES FOR THAT

MISSION. MACIAS, INSTEAD, INDICATED HIS ORGANIZATION NAS INTERESTED

• IN KILLING SENIOR CUBAN VISITOR TO

MEMBER OF LOCAL CUBAN:

•EMBASSY ORe IF-THIS NOT POSSIBLE IMPORTANT SPANISH COMMUNIST• ONLY

01.9240

NAME MENTIONED WAS THAT OF NICOLAS GUILLEN. WELL KNOUN CUBAN

POETHMUN AND LONG TIME COMMUNIST, UNO CURRENTLY IN SPAIN TO RECEIVE

LITERARY HONOR. MACIAS GAVE "ORLANDO" MISSION OF OBTAINING TWO OR

THREE HAND GUNS FROM

MILITARY PERSONNEL. HE COMMENTED THAT

"SINCE GI'S SELL EVERYTHING""ORLANDO" SHOULD HAVE LITTLE PROBLEM.

BUYING GUNS FOR LITTLE MONEY. ON SAME DAY HE LEFT U.S. $30 JAMS,

'ORLANDO" RECEIVED PHONE CALL FROM ARMANDO COPÉZ ESTRADA MM

CONTIRMED TO HIM HE SHOULD PURCHASE "TWO BEDSPREADS" STUO GUNSS.

LIP: PER MALIAS BRIEFING, "ORLANDO" IS TO EXFECT CONTAGT

AT HIS HOTEL WITHIN TNE DAYS APTER HIS ARRIVAL BY TWO MEN SENT BY

LOPEZ WHO WILL IDENTIFY SELVES AS "NUNDER &." REFER TO "ORLANDO"

AS "NUNDER LO AND SHOW THEIR KNOULEDGE OF BRIGADE ESON HISTORY.

DATE I

0010!

WAITE

020

---

## Page 47

14-00000

CUTGOING

MESSAGE

PONE

ONF 0

D

H4A87HRAT3

EGRE

• 0

DIRECTOR CIA

INFO: FE

981153.

ли.

0

PER

"ORLANDO" DOES NOT KNOW WHETHER HE WILL RECEIVE PREVIOUS PHONE CALL

FROM LOPEZ. HE GATHERED THAT LOPEZ HIMSELF MAY BE ONE OF TWO MEN

WHO WILL CONTACT HIM.

.C.

ASKED WHY ARMANDO LOPEZ HAS

TO SEND MEN FROM UNITED STATES TO UNDERTAKE TERRORIST MISSION

WHEN MANY CUBAN EXILES LIVE IN THAT COUNTRY. "ORLANDO" SAID THAT

EITHER NO ONE FROM BRIGADE 2506 RESIDES

OR THERE IS NO

MENBER OF THAT BRIGADE

WHOM LOPEZ TRUSTS. HE EXPLAINED THAT

THERE HAD BEEN CHANGES IN THE HIERARCHY OF

THE BRIGADE IN LAST SIX

MONTHS• ORLANDO BOSCH MADE BID TO TAKE OVER BRIGADE LEADERSHIP

FROM VENEZUELA BUT THIS WAS REJECTED BY LOPEZ SO THAT BOSCH SET UP

HIS OWN ORGANIZATION AND WENT ON WITH THE RECENT DESTRUCTION IN

PLIGHT OF CUBAN PLANE WITHOUT ANY CONNECTION WITH BRIGADE 250k.

I LOPEZ, UHO ORLANDO" SAID WAS

IDLIGHTED" WITH BOSCH'S "SUCCESS, IS NOU TRYING PO COMPETE IN CUBAN

TERRORIST BUSINESS AND IS PLANNING KILL ANY CUBAN PHIDELISTA OR EVEN

SPANISH COMMUNIST ME CAN GET ACCESS TO DURING TRIP|

MACIAS TOLD "ORLANDO" THAT ME HAS SISTER ALCUA+ MARRIED

DATI

8. "0.

IMPOST

---

## Page 48

OUTCOING MESSAGE

Вызнав. €

«me

BUSE GOL

PENE

0

• 0

OMF

D

0

SECRET

• D

SIREEZER CIA

Dissat aY.

COMP:

INFO: PIL

981153

no most

TO EFNUS SU ARE Z. WHO HAS CHILDREN STUDYING AT UNIVERSITY F

VALLADOLID IN SPAIN. SUAREZ COUPLE USED TO LIVE IN VALLADOLID, BUT

SUAREZ CURRENTLY HAS JOB IN MIAMI AS REFRIGERATION TECHNICIAN. HE

AND WIFE (BOTH U.S. CITIZENS OF CUBAN ORIGINS MAKE FAIRLY FREQUENT

VISITS TO VALLADOLID. MACIAS TOLD "ORLANDOT

THAT SUAREZ IS COWARD

AND LOUDMOUTH WHO CANNOT BE COUNTED ON.: IT REMAINS HOWEVER, THAT

MEN SENT BY LOPEZ COULD VISIT MACIAS CHILDREN OR EVEN STAY BITH

L THEM A FEW DAYS.

EIR 3E "ORLANDO" HAS DONE NOTHING AT

ABOUT POSSIBILITY

OBTAIN HAND GUNS. HE AGREED CURRENT INTERNAL SITUATION

GIVES

HIM READY EXCUSE TO INFORM LOPEZ AND HIS MEN THAT IT TOO RISKY AT.

THIS TIME TO TRY OT OBTAIN MEAPONS. "ORLANDO" SAID ME KNOUS NAMES OF

HING OR TWO AMERICANS OF CUBAN BACKGROUND: LIVINGL

101Y CLAIMED

ME NOT HAVE THEIR ADDRESSES AND THUS HAS NO INTENTION OF

CONTACTING THEM. ME KNEW NO ONE AT

_ BEPORE STARTING WORK THERE.

CLASSIFIED BY 05940S. EXEMPT FROM GENERAL DECLASSIFICATION

SCHEDULE OF C•O• JAISA EXEMPTION CATEGORY SOCES• IMPOSSIOLE TO

1179:

DETERMINE DATE OF AUTOMATIC DECLASSIPICATION. M

WAd:

0R01

?. i

WANG

: BNT1

---

## Page 49

OUTGOING MESSAGE

OMF

D

SECRET

COUP:

FILE

DIREETOR CIA

98/153

0

DISSEM BY:

PER

CDo

BASED ON:

CABLE SEC:

201-0300224

C34360 1I1 37282

PLS PROVIDE CC TO IP/AN FOR FILING IN 203-0284438,

19-300-28°

Bipu

Braineraa

AChI

WA/COG

2010

(talent)

2011-2992-48

LON

PC8/E3

C/ROG

iMPORT

-v.

---

## Page 50

STATE CABLE

FROM AMEMBASSY CARACAS 0854

DATE: 37 JANUARY 1977

SUBJECT: INTERROGATION OF ORLANDO ROSCH

---

## Page 51

SECRET

FERBOR/UNIT NOTIFIED

ADVANCE COPY ISSUED/BLOYTED

RETION GAIT

PILE, VR, DDO 3, EPS/EC 2, IP/DHS, IID, PCS/INT 5+

LA 21

"TEVIE"

D/DE, CS/RP• ADDO/DICT. 4- CA 4, PCS/ITC. 4r EA 40

EA/CO Y

438491

E1 A9 25

PAGE 01

TORI 072140E DEC 76

AGENCY MESSAGE

IN 122257

31636)

SECRET 071946E DEC TO INTEL

CI TE

70!

31636

DIRECTOR INFO

MNINTEL INTEL AMSTONE FUDWELL

SUPDATAI

NO INDEX • FILE: 75-120•28

o 0Y

MILD 0719400

0391J.

XXXXX

0,100

RECORD COPY

+000 299119

7 Q0es.86

i11

---

## Page 52

DELICA (TIMeR PING IN)

DIRECTORATA OP

Intelligence Information Cable

PARNING NOW

• ROUTINE

IN 122257

INSITIVE INTELLICENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVI

STATE/OR JES/ME IDIA CHANUCE SWS NÇA TREAS NSC/S SDO NO CRS PAGED OF 5 PADIS

rama Raanato al la 1460 Pies

PUNTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUNECT TO

CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.:

FRIS IS AN INFORMATIÓN REPORT, NOT FINALLY EVALUATED INTELIGENCE

SECRET

DIST 2 DECEMBER 1976

REPORT CLASS'S EGRET WARNING NOTICE-SENS IT IVE INTELLIGENCE

SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED-NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN NATIONALS

NOT RELEASABLE TO CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACTORI CONSULTANTS--

DISSEN IMAP SON AND EXTRACTION OF INFRMATION CONTROLLED BY ORIGINATOR.

COUNTRY

VENEZUEL A/ CUBA

DO 1

EARL YO MID-NO VEMO ER 1 07.6

SUBJECT-

COMMENTS BY ORLANDO BOSCH ON THE BOMBING. OF A CUBANA

AIRLINER

_"!"

war ae i

GUAMARY WHILE DENYINO HIS INVOLVEMENT IN. PAG ASSASSINATION

OF CORMER CHILEAN FOREION MINISTER ORLANDO LETELTER, CUDAN EXILE

LADUR ORLANDO BOSCH IMPLIED THAT MO WAN INVOLVED IN THE MONUING OF

A CUDANA AIRGINIA, DOOCH DAID THAT PRESIDENT CARLOS ANDRCO PERMI

18 ANGRY AT HIM DECAUDE MU BOLINVES: THAT BOUCH BAOKE HIS AGREEMENT

AND PLANNID. PHO GUBANA INCIDENT IN VONURUNLAO NHICH BOSCH DENIUS,

NIRNAN RICARDO WMO 1B ALSO IMPLIGATED IN PHE PLANE CHAOM ADMITTED

THAT NO WAS BIRECTLY INVOLVED IN PHIO DOMINO AN WELL AN @PIERR.

PUAPMRARORED HE DAID THAT THI CUMAN XILI COMMUNITY IN VONOUOLA

---

## Page 53

HOWS

IN

122257

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITNE INTELLICENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

SECRET

FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO

CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.

MAS ADPROXIMATELY 4E POUNDS OF CO EXPLOSIVE, END SUMMARY.

8. IN MIDONOVEMBER 1976 CUBAN EXILE LEADER ORLANDO 8 O SCH.

NHO IS CURRENTLY UNDER DETENTION IN VENEZUELA IN CONNECTION WITH

THE A OCTOBER BOMBING OF A CUBANA AIRLINER, SAID THAT THE BOMB INO

OF TME PLANE IN THE AIR HAD SEEN A MISTAKE. ACCORDINO TO THE PLAN

THE PLANE HAS TO HAVE BEEN DESTROYED MIDLE ON THE AROUND IN TRINIDAD

AND NOT IN THE AIR, BOSCH &AID, BOSCH ADDED THAT 1? WAS NOT INTENDED

THAT ANY ONE SHOULD ES KILLED AND AS IT TUANED OUT, THE INCIDENT WAS

"IN COUNTER PRODUCTIVE, BOSCH BLAMED THIS ON THE STUPIDITY OF

MARNAN RY OAR DO AND FREDDY L U @ D WNO ARE CUNASATLY UNDER

ARREST IN CONNECTION WITH THE INCIDENT.

COMMSNTIWHILA

BOSOM DID NOP ACTUALLY ADMIT THAT HE WAS INVOLUED IN THE QUBENA

DOMAINO, HIS STATEMENT CLEARLY INDICATOS THAY HE MAD PRIOR KNONLEDOE

OP THE INCIDENT. )

DO BODEN DADD THAT VENGBUOLAN PREBIDENT CARLOS ANDRIOP EN

2A: 10

ANODY AT MIM DEGAUDE NE BELIEVES DASON PLANAND, AND BIRGOTED THE

10) CT.

---

## Page 54

1011.101-454

3007 OLDERS

: IN . 122257

WARNING NOT'T

SANATIVE INTHIJICINCS SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

PAGE 3 Of 5 PACES

SECRET

FURTHER DISSEMIMATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT. TO

CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.

(allant Maniton)

CUBANA INCIDENT FROM VENEZUELA, THIS, BOSEN SA:DO IS NOT TRUE.

BOSCH FURTHER ASSERTED TNAT HE HAS HONORED HIS AGREEMENT WITH PEREZ

THAT NE WOULD NOT CARRY OUT ANTI-CUBAN ACTIVITIES IN VENEZUELA IF

PEREZ LET HIM ENTER VENEZUELA WITHOUT DIFFICULTY:

COMMENTI

DO SEN IMPLIED THAT, WHILE ME DID PLAN THE OPERATION, SUCH PLANS WERE

NOT CARRIED OUT IN VENEZUELA. Y

*, BOSCH SAID THAT SHORTLY AFTER THE CUBANA CRASH. ORLANDO

@ARE I A PRESIDENT PEREZ' INTELLIGENCE AND SECURITY ADVISER.

MAD PLANNED TO GET BOSCH OUT OF VENEZUELA, PRESIDENT PEREZ•

BELIEVING BOSCH HAD GONE BACK ON HIS AGREEMENT, ORDERED GARCIA TO

ARREST BOSCH, GARCIA DIDI HOWEVER, WARN BOSCH ON MIS FORTMCOMING

DETENTION AND GAVE HIM AN HOUR AND A HALF TO ARRANGE WIS AFFAIRS

BAPORE GARCIA ARRESTED MEM, BOSCH SABO THAT AT THE TIME HE DIE NOT

ANALLY TAKE GARCIA'S WARNINO SERIOUSLY•L

COMMENT!

GARCIA INTONDED TO ESCORT MOSCH TO QUE COLOMBIAN BORDER, Y

D: IN DISCUSSING OTHER THRRORIST ACTS: WITH WHICH HIS NAME MAS

DUN LINKED, BOBCH DENIED HAVING BUEN IN ANY WAY INVOLVED MITH THE

MURDOÁ OF TORMER CHILEAN PORMIEN MINIOTER ORLANDO 6 AT ELIER

ALDO, DOSEN DAID THAT REPORTO THAT MU HAD INTENDED TO KILL ANDRES

•IОN01

---

## Page 55

води 2007 смоном

IN 378257

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTELLICENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

PAGE 4 OF 5 PAGES

SECRET

FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO

CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND ENO OF REPORT.

1020118PO89t002

PAS GU A 6 ALLENDE, NEPHEW OF THE LATE CHILEAN PRESIDENT

SALVADOR ALL ENDE • IN COSTA RICA IN FEBRUARY ARE COMPLETELY

FALSE, UNFORTUNATELY, BOSCH SAID. HE HAS BEEN UNABLE TO CONVINCE

PEREZ OF HIS INNOCENCE WITH REGARD TO PASCUAL.

COMMENT I

IT IS INTERESTING TO NOTE THAT BOSCH STRONGLY DENGED MIS INVOLVEMENT

IN THE LETELIER CASE AND THE POSSIBLE ATTEMPT AGAINST PASCUALO

WHILE AT THE SAME, TIME NOP DENYING HIS CONNEGTION HITH THE CUBANA

0. IN DISCUSSING HIS FUTURE, BOSCH SAID THAT ME EXPECTS THE

VENERUEL AN AUTORITIES TO EVENTUALLY RELEASE MIM AS THE VENEZUEL ANS

MAVE NO PROOF ABAINST HIM, BOSCH SAID THAT HE 1S OLD AND TIRED AND I

WANTS TO GO BACK TO SERVE OUT MIS PRISON SENTENCE IN THE UNITED STATES.

FURTMERMORE, DOSCH SAID THAT HE FEARS. FOR HIS LIPE AND MERELY WANTS

mriawr-90 WASTIRE IN PEACE,

CO, ON MARLY NOVEMBERO RICARDO ADMITTAD PRIVATOLY THAT MI. WAB DIRECTLY

INVOLVED IN THE BOMBING OR THE CUBANA

PLANE RICARDO DAID THAT MI

14041

L

---

## Page 56

3007 Onsoon

IN 122257

WARNING NOTICH

SENSITIVE INTHMICFNCE SOURCES AND METIIODS INVOLVED

PAGE 5 OF 5 PACES

SECRET

FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO

CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.

MAD CARRIED COA EXPLOSIVE IN HIS POCKETS AND THAT LUGO CARRIED THE

TIME PENCIL INSIDE MIS CAMERA.. THE BOMB. RICARDO SAID. WAS PLACED

IN ONE OF THE PLANES LAVATORIES:

D, IN ADDITION TO THE & OCTOBER DOMING, RIÇARDO ADMITTED THAT

ME WAS INVOLVED IN AN ATTEMPTED BOMBING OF A CUBANA PLANE IN PANAMA

IN THE SUMMER OF 19760 AND ATTEMPT ON A CUBANA PLANE IN JAMAICA AND

THE DOMBING OF THE CUBAN CONSULATE IN GUYANA: ANOTHER BOMBING HAD

BEEN PLANNED FOR MONG KONG. BUT RICARDO SAID THAT HE HAD BEEN UNABLE

TO MAKE THE TRIP,

SO, ACCORDING TO RICARDO, THE CUBAN EXILE COMMUNITY IN VENEZUELA

MAX APPROXIMATELY 40 POUNDS OF C- EXPLOSIVES. AT. ITS DISPOSAL.

INVEST 1Q AT JONS CARRIED OUT BY VENEZUELAN AUTHORITIES TEND: TO CONFIAN

TRiSS INPORMATION AND THE VGNERUELANS ARE ATTESPPINO TO LOCATE THE

_DISSEMA EMBASSY, TOO AT CARACAS! BENT MOLI

AMPORT OLASON DC A D TO WARNINO NOTICE ONBITIVE INTHLLLOUNGH

SOURCHO AND MITMODS INVOLVED NOT RELOASABLO TO PONION NATIONALI

NOT MULHADADLI TO CONTRAOTORO ON CONTRACTOR A CONDULTANTS, DISSEMIN

AND UXTRACTION OF INPORMATION CONTROLLOD MY ORIOINATOR,

SIRED DE RECONDLE NEPORTING ONCENE.

---

## Page 57

# 0187200899

SECRET?:

cons c1A8 wro.:

19-26

•0

08g0 997

L:

Cos/ITC2, AGE/DDO

c/CI2

TO: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION/ ATTNE

I98

INVESTIGATIVE DIVISION. Y

'SECRET-HARNING NOTICE-SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS

INVOLVEE--NOT RELEASASLE TO FOREIGN NATIONALS--NOT RELEASABLE TO

CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACTOR/ CONSULTANTS Y

i55р

32

RAL

SUBJECT:

BOMBING OF FORMER CHILEAN AMBASSADOR TO THE UNITED STATES:

TRAVEL IOF GUILLERMO NOVO TO CHILE IN LATE 1974. Y

THIS CABLE IS.

IN RESPONSE TO HURLEST ENMIAS

TAND A MEMORANDUM FROM THE

DIRECTOR OF THE FBI. DATED J? DECEMBER 1976. FOR INFORMATION CONCERN

ING FOREIGN TRAVEL OF GUILLERMO NOVO AND JOSE DIONISIO SUAREZ. THIS

AGENCY HAS ALREADY FORWARDED TO YOU ADOEFIONHE INFORMATION CONCERNING

MATUR

©NO:

EIT!

c-229228

201-0

DO NOT WERE WEY

AMPRODUEROM BY OTHER THAN TARTARINA QUER IS MOHAITED

вывороват

BEENE

IMPOET

01018

---

## Page 58

14-00000

OUTGOING MESSAGE

i."

¢ MF

SECRETA

0

₴

DIRECTOR

DISSEN BY:

DO: PIL

967391

PER

ON 2 DECEBER 3974 OPLANDO MO SCH AND GULERR" OVO

BOTH CUBAN EXILE LEADERS, TRAVELED TO CHILE FRIM VENEZUELA AT THE

INVITATION OF THE CHILEAN GOVERNMENT. ANOTHER ASSOCIATE OF BOSCHi

JOSE DIONISIO SUAREZ'!

ESQUIVEL • DID NOT ACCOMPANY THEM FROM

VENEZUELA BECAUSE ME WAS UNABLE TO GET A VISA TO CHILE AS HE STILL.

HELD CUBAN CITIZENSHIP. Y:

3. THE ABOVE SURFACED DURING A RECHECK OF AGENCY RECORDS. IT

IS BELIEVED THAT YOUR AGENCY HAS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ON THE VEL

TRAVEL OF BOSCH TO CHILE. Y

4. CLASSIFIED BY RECORDED REPORTING OFFICER. XGDS-? N

HASED ONI

FILI

J23 DECEMBEN 177%

WESCARLET

OBJ8

{wkSCArLET-9y

200-12-200/1

307-219292

L12.

maig

0101

UNIT:

BITI

JC

A/SB/CH/RR

247%

04800018909908

CALA/OPS

AGC/DDO I

P/REAL

IN DRAFTE

_JIN DRAFTS

TCLECOORDE

DE/LA/PNE

C/LA/SE "

I: DRAFT

PRODUGTION BY OTHER THAN THR BUNG OPPIE I6, JROM FITSi

• * IMPDIT

---

## Page 59

DISSEND 29000-

SECRET

SOMEHOUT NOTIED.

ADVANCE CODI

SE SEBLOTTED

ACTICAL UAIT

FILE

LA8

LA

9 492519

E1 A167

.. 200 1: 2040

VR

clectors,

c/ers

c/pestercy,

c/pes,

C/EPS/EGa

C/CA/5063

PAGE

TOR: 322025₴ DEC 76

SECRET 302200Z DEC 76 STAFF

CI TE

3971

TOS PRIORITY DIRECTOR.

WNINTEL RYBAT FUDWELL

REF: DIRECTOR 931119

•1. FOR THE MOST FART INFO ON LETELIER CASE NO LONGER

FORTHCOMING. AS PREVIOUSLY REPORTED• AREAS THAT SHOULD BE

CHECKED ARE INACCESSABLS TO STATION.

?. ALTHOUGH STATION HAS NO HARD EVIDENCE. NE SELIEVE

THAT AIR: FORCE INTELLIGENCE

ANC ARMY INTELLIGENCE

WARRANT A CLOSER LOUKO IN RELATION TO THEIR POSSIBLE

INVOLVEMENT IN LETELIER ASSASSINATION.

3. THE FOLLOWING ARE GLEANINGS ELICTED ROOM VARIOUS

•

BOURCES DURING THE LAST FOUR WEEKS!

AS THE GENERAL PRATTS. BOMBING IN ARGENTINA HAS

PRÚSABLY THE WERK OF DINE.

OTHER

THAN

HOMEBTED

STAF PRESSENGE

1$:

IN 142668

35714

WAs 01 - 2919.292

'ADDAOXIMATOLY Z9 DAYS

9100.90 DRATTO

nul1er.92

0leen

DO NOT DIATNOY

---

## Page 60

14-00000

D. ABLE SEE

PERSON'UNIT SOTIFIED

ACTION UNIT

18e 10958

16018: D8A1 1148900

ISSUING

OFFICE

i STAFF

AF. FILE

47 25 17

21 A1 97

FA GE 02

TO 2: 362025₴ DEC 76

ASSASS INATION DINE REGLESTED THE JOINT INTELLIGENCE

COMMUNITY TO PEOVICE A FULL CASING REPORT ON PRATES, TO

INCLUDE THE ADDRESS IN BUENOS AIRES, HIS DAILY MOVEMENTS.

ETC.

FUDOUBLE -568. SPRATTS KILLING MENTIONED HERE

SE CAJSE OF

STATEMENT THAT THERE MANY SIMILARITIES

IN PRATTS BOMBING ITH THAT OF LETELIER CASE.Y

ADOROXIMATELY Z TO S WEEKS PRIOR TO LETELIER.

KILLING.

ASKED SOURCE RHETORICAL QUESTION AS

TO HON ONE WOULD REIMOURSE A HIT MAN.

FUDOUBLE -50)

AN Z9 DECEMBER FUDQUALE-SO EXPLAINED POSSIBLE

REASON FOR RAPID COOLING OF ATTITUDE OF INVESTIQATIVE

PoLICe

TOWARDS

U.SO ENDASSY AND DEA AGENTS. IMMEDIATELY AFTER LE TELIER

KILLINO DO! INITIATEO INVESTIQATION TO COTERMINE ACTIV!?!SS

OF ORLANDO DOSER DURINO NIS 1095 STAY IN SANTIAGO.

PUDAACAINOL LIARNED OF INVESTIDATION AND ABEARENTLY

MAX INSTRUMENTAL IN ORDENA TROM. DRESIDENTIO OFFICE

SNOTRLCTINO DOI CRABI INVERPIOATION IMMEDIAPHLY AND AP

DAME PIME NOP TO DISCUSS CASE WITH ANY AMERICAN • ORPICIAL

ON OTHERWISH, PUBQUOLA DO CONTINUGE THAT AP IME IN WAN

IN 142688

35 71 4

---

## Page 61

SEC DISSED E+

PEE

BENSONANT NOTIFID_

• ADVANCE

COPy

ISSUEDISLOTYED

ACTION UNIT

RF. FILE .

TOld COLES

SECRET

HEPRODUCTION BY

InSUING

OTHER THAN

OFFICE iS PHONIaTED

STAFF

BY

VR

ACTION *

492519

EI A167

PAGE C3

TOR:302025Z DEC 76

IN 142668

35714

UNAWARE OF ABOVE ORDERS AND NAVAL INTELLIGENCEL

WAS

IN FACT CONDUCTING ITS OWN INVESTIGATION ON BO SCH.

BE FO RE

THEY CEASED WORKING THE CASE

HAD DETERMINED THAT

SO SCH APPARENTLY MAD EXTENSIVE CONTACTS WITHI

AS MANY HAD PREVIOUSLY BELIEVEDI AND IN FACT

WAS

RESPONSIBLE FOR PROVIDING HIM WITH MOST OR ALL OF HIS

FALSE CHILEAN DOCUMENTATION. IN SUPPORT OF ABOVE THESIS

IS PREVIOUS STATION REPORTING CONCERNING REPPESSIVE ACTIONS

WHICH WAS DRIGINALLY THOUGHT TO BE WORK

OF

OUT

SUESEOUENTLY PROVEN TO BE

NOTES APPRECIATE FACP THAT ABOVE NOT WARD

IVIDENCE OUT ALL OF ABOVE WERE DROPPED IN CASUAL

DISCUSSIUNS AND DUE TO

SENSiTIVITIES CASE

OFFICER FELT ANY ATPEMPT TO PRODE FOR SPECIFICS WOULD HAVE

DEIN COUNTER RUDUCTIVE.

D• UNION HOS OBJECTE BRATION PLANE DISCUSS ABOVE

POINTO WITH IVANUA AIRD GHOATE DURING NIB NEXT VIBIP TO

800-12-20018. 12 IMPDEY

---

## Page 62

14-00601

SECRET

DO DOCUMENT EXTRACT

FOLL WING

INFARMATICA CONCERNING THE SÜBJECT

IF THIS 2D1

ONSSIER HAS REEN EXTRACTED FEIM ANUTHER OFFICIAL DO FILEO

DERSONS PERFOSMING NAME TRACES ARE CAUTINED THAT

MENT FARM WITCH THIS EXTRACT JAS

PREDAFED CONTAIN'S

ADUITIONAL

INFORYATIVV PERTAINING TO THE SUBJECT AND SHUULD BE REQUESTED

FROM APAFILES....

HO SCH AVILA, ORLANDS

201-0299292

SEX.

022-Ö04-029

C1O1-18445116

27

DE6. 76

P2

Loc поно.

SUMMARY

OF INFO TO FAI

AND ARMY

INTELL-TERRORIST PLOTTING BY CUHAN EXILES®

PATE 29 JUL

79529

201-299292

TE POET CL BY 0149Y6

---

## Page 63

14-00000

TRANSMITTAL SLIP CAiE

TO:

A J00 100.

C/L/SB.

DC/L1/S3.

E/LA/CRIAS

C/LA -- UP

N/Sa SC6J-

bosh fwife

mUILDOEL

BITENS:000

1241

---

## Page 64

14-00000

TO

SECRET

ICIASSITY I7 APPRDORIATE THEN TIL

TRANSMITTAL MANIFEST

FROM

Chief, LA Division

FUDWELL.

ACOS,

hall

V

DatE

CAUTION - Blank form requires

secure storage in field.

16 Decenher 1976

Nº 180212

DESCAIPTION

Copy of ESMIDWAY-3 report on

Orlando BOSCH! h/w. Report

received from COS,|

at Station's request.

CRO11. R. RTETHNCCREA

BY 12960 use BReviona fortiona

TOGAONT TO HOPROPANT WASH PILLSO TOT

---

## Page 65

Attachment to

TM 180212, 16 Dec 76

Informe,

Noviembre 22 de 1975

Respecto a sue instrucciones de indogar sobre las actividades de

Orlando Boch durante sus visitas a Guatemalo, paso a Informarle lo e1-

guiente.

El Embajador de Costa Rica en Honduras, Edula Góngora, me dijo

(21 de noviembre) que a principios de este año recibió de su Gobierno

Instrucciones de averiguar cuales eran sus contactos en Guatemala. D1jo

que el propio ministro de relaciones exteriores de Costa Rica, Gonzalo

Faccio, le había mostrado un documento procedente de. la CIA (estas Pue-

ron aus palabras) en el cual se demostrabaja que Boch había tenido rela

clones en Guatemala con el hijo del ex preaidante Arana, Jorge Roberto

Asena España (TIto)•

Agregó Góngora que era muy probable que al contacto entre Boch

y Tito Arana se hubiera hecho por madio de los cubanos Gerardo Sampedro

y Moreira, con quienes al segundo tiene negocioso

Recuerdo que, efectivamente, cuando Góngora me hablé de este asura

*O, " principios de aste allo (más o menos an mayo) me mencionó la circuna

tmnada de que Faccio Pué a Guatemala para comundoar al canciller quatanal

tuco, Adolfo Molina Orantes, lou temores del Gobterno costarricansa por

Inn motividado de Boche

Gongora recordó un numetra Gitima conversason

que tal viusto hable coincidido son el stantado de que Pul viotima Tito.

Arane y qua; inaluelve se menaionó que una cosa y l9 otre podrsen estes

salmelermonos mus contactos con Boch y al atentado.

Comentê Côngora también que Tite Arene huete Preountno vinja "

Mans, donde no posible -dilos que fisiera hecho amistad con otros subanos

insenntrintno renidarten o11g .

Agregê cóngore que cuando se le comunico de pasta de au gobierno.

«oto munso, recuerda haber noauchado que ol otro lajo del esprendente

Arane (Corlaton) temblhon notan rolacionado oon Inn motividadon nubvaradvan

centro Odubaro Comento que Carliton no aviador y sudo haber ofrecido ayuda

«osa, mudsenso nuo amigoe que bione un den FAO

Diso Cóngare que Paceso le manatonê tambgen de pontosladad de que

Joan rubiere tanddo conacaión con al vioupresiuente cuntemalteco, Marso lena

devas Aleron, pero que no careada de prumbas cobre aldea Me dijo mhora que

el Prensdento Laugurud de oPrasto Puoudo ponas Pruno a nomo nocividadão y

---

## Page 66

14-00000

22

que desde enconces no ha recibido ninguna otra instrucción de su Gobierno, por

•lo que supone que Laugerud cumplió su promesa. Cree Góngora que desde entances

(mayo de este año) Boch no volvió a Guatemala.

---

## Page 67

FBI DOCUMENT

DATE:

15 DECEMBER 1976

CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL

SUBJECT: ULANDO BOSCH AVILA- PAROLE VIOLATOR

FBI FILE NO: NONE GIVEN (MIAMI)

---

## Page 68

44-00000

STATE CABLE

FROM SECSTATE WASHDC (STATE 303401)

DATE: 15 DECEMBER 1976

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET

SUBJECT: REQUEST TO INTERROGATE BOSCH

---

## Page 69

CABLE SEE DISSEN E.

BERSON SENTINE:.

ABSANTE GOON LESUED SLOTTED

RE

SECRET

FILE

AMS, NEE

2A8

A=TiO..

000 3, ci4

457046

ELAGBE

ER8/EG2

PAGE 01

FOR: 161985Z DEC 75

SECRET 141045E DEE 76 STAFF

117922

CITE

TO:

DIRECTOR,

WNINTEL MHSPIKE

REF:

9E IN 043608)

1.

AT 13, DECENSER MEETING, EMFETCH-B BIDENTITY FOR

SAID ME HAD BEEN TOLD "OY AN GETIVE SUPPORTER OF CORUM THAT

- PRESIDENT CARLOS ANDRES PEREZ OF VENEZUELA WAS

RNOWLEDGEABLE AND IN FAVOR OF CUBAN EXILE TERRORIST. ACTIONS.

•UNNAMED SOURCE FEELS PEREZ TURNED ON ORLANDO BOSCH BECAUSE: HE

PEARED BECOMING PARRED. BY INTERNATIONAL PRESS WITH COMPLICITY

IN CUBAN RIQNTIST ACTIONS, SOURCE "BELIEVES" CORU MAY

TAKE REPRISAL AGTION AGAINST VENEZUELA BECAUSE GP BOSCH

ARREST.

•8A EMPETCHO WAS ASKED TO QUERY SOURCH ON MIS KNOWLEDGE OF

FUTURE CORU PLANNING, ISTATION DELIVES IMPETCH-R'S SOURCE

10 119489

"A611

2109998. B9 IMPDEP

REDRODUSTION BY

OTHER TrA

IS5UING

OFFICE IS

DRONIBITE!

STAFF

itl

13:

! 5

IN 129501

17922

VICED FILE COPY TON

01. 2292.22

DO NOW WESTION

8.5-R59..

---

## Page 70

17

cOMF 0

81+2715A8,39

1183108 та

CONF:

D

0721201

SOME MATEUNCE

967391

10: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION /ATTN: R- K. MCHARGUE/ GENERAL

ERS

INVESTIGATIVE DIVISION.Y

SECRET-WARNING NOTICE-SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS

INVOLVED--NOT RELEASASLE TO FOREIGN NATIONALS--NOT RELEASABLE TO

CONRTRACTORS OR CONTRACTOR/CONSULTANTS Y

SUBJECT: BOMBING OF FORMER CHILEAN AMBASSADOR TO THE UNITED STATES;

"TRAVEL DOF GUILLERMO NOVO TO CHILE IN LATE 1974.: Y

THIS CABLE IS LANES RESPONSE TO PERSOLES MADEMENO

10197

BETTED A MEMORANDUM FROM THE

DIRECTOR OF THE FBI• DATED 17 DECEMBER 29%6. FOR INFORMATION CONCERN

ING FOREIGN TRAVEL OF GUILLERMO NOVO AND JOSE DIONISIO SUAREZ. THIS

AGENCY HAS ALREADY PORUARDED TO YOU ADARFIOHAE INPORMATION CONCERNING.

ERASENTRITEZTOT NOVO.

DATE I

AEPROBUCTION OY OTHER THAN THE ROUIME OPPICE I8 PROMINITEO

IMPDET

C6 BY 038958

---

## Page 71

DMF

E But 568, 07St 673.7079

SECRET

DOE BLARE MADELINS AURICANE

0

0

2

nico marines

DIRECTOR

DISSEM BY:

CONF:

INFO: FILE

967391

0

. no atte

aT To PER

2• ON Z DECEMBER 1974 ORLANDO B OS EN AND GUILLERMO NO VA

BOTH CUBAN EXILE LEADERS, TRAVELED TO CHILE FROM VENEZUELA AT THE

• INVITATION OF THE CHILEAN GOVERNMENT. ANOTHER ASSOCIATE OF BOSCH,

JOSE DIONISIO SUAREZ ESQUIVEL, DID NOT ACCOMPANY THEM FROM

VENEZUELA BECAUSE HE WAS UNABLE TO GET A VISA TO CHILE AS HE STILL

HELD CUBAN CITIZENSHIP. y.

3. THE ABOVE SURFACED DURING A RECHECK OF AGENCY RECORDS. IT

ÍS BELIEVED THAT YOUR AGENCY HAS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ON THE I

TRAVEL, OF BOSCH TO CHILE. Y

W• CLASSIFIED BY RECORDED REPORTING OFFICER. XGDS-2•M

BASED ON:

URSCARLET

I3 DECEMBER 1976

EWKSCARLET-9}

FILE 200-12-200/1

301-299293

DATIO.

0001

UNITI

INTA

JAN 77

A/SE/CH/AR

1474

C/APOPS

AGG/DDO 1

CE/REA

JIN DRAFTE

JIN DRAFTE

TELECOORDS

CALA/PNG

C/LA/SO

IN DRAFT

AOPROQUETION Y OTHER THAN THE INEVING OPPICE IS PROMIMIYLO

C/LAT

WATER APPREN

IMPOUT

Ch

uY:

---

## Page 72

OUTGUING MESSAGE

15-2B

- tit-

SECRET

no 80n06 mens bit te

STAFF

COM: LAS

UFO: FILE

0

954250

25Stм er: P

PEA

TO:

REF!

UNINTEL KMSTONE MHSPIKE Y

132617 lIN 8192651 Y

BELIEVE SUBJECT PARA SCAL REF IDENTICAL TO ERNESTINO CERNESTOS

CECILIO A MORE U HORTA 8201-3276645 BORN JI NOVEMBER 1924 IN

AMARILLAS, MATANZAS, •CUBA. CUBAN CHEMIST WITH LONG ASSÖCIATION WITH

MOVINIENTO DE RECUPERACAION REVOLUCIONARIA CMRR • CUBAN COUNTER

REVOLUTIONARY GROUPS DURING EARLY 1960'S• WAS MRR COORDINATOR IN

MATANZAS PROVINCE WHERE HE ORGANIZED GUERRILLA MOVEMENT PRIOR TO BAY

OF. PIG$ INVASION• MANAGED TO ESCAPE ARREST/ CAPTURE BY CASTRO FORCES

THROUGH ASYLUM IN VENEZUELAN EMBASSY, HAVANA. FIRST ARRIVED IN U-S.

AT MIAMI ON DO AUG GO AFTER TUO MONTH -TAY IN VENEZUELA.. POA GRANTED

& AUG GE FOR INTENDED USE AS MEMBER MR INFILTRATION TEAM INTO

ORIENTE, CUBA BUT MIAMY STATION DECIDED SUBJECT MORE FAMILIAR WITH

MATANZAS PROVINCE THAN TARGET AREA. POA REINSTATED 27 JUN EJ TO ALLOW

VASIC TRADECRAFT AND PARAMILITARY TRAINING WITH VIEW TOWARDS MAKING

SUOJECT TRAINING INSTRUCTOR FOR MAR. CADRE. IN ECTODER 1I63 SUBJECT

PRAVELED TO NICARAGUA GHERE HE ESTABLISHED TUO MRE CAMPS AND TRAINER

GATI

161-222222

22 200 2320L

005400000 ФОРШОЕ

Steersener

HAPRODVETION 0Y OYMIA THAN THE ISSUINO OFFICE IS PROMEITIO

IMPOUT

CL BY: 0:b010

---

## Page 73

ame

OMF

SECRET

a stand somen mone

STAFF

CONF:

OUTGOING MESSAGE

SIGNA CANTEDUBE

108

00-в

0

0

0

INFO: FILE

DIRECTOR

DISSEM 8Y:

954250

n tome

300 CUBAN EXILES: HE PEPARTED NICARAGUA FOR MIAMI ON JU APR 6S AFTER

RECEIVING ORDERS FROM MANUEL A R TIME (SECY GEN MARI TO ABANDON

ALL MRR ACTIVITIES SINCE PLANS TO OVERTHROW CASTRO REGIME HAD CON-

PLETELY FAILED. THERE NO FURTHER REPORTING IN FILE OR EVIDENCE OF

RENEWED AGENCY CONTACT WITH SUBJECT• 1971 NICARAGUAN TELEPHONE. DI-

RECTORY LISTS SUBJECT RESIDING MANS TEIDELINDÀ 3 CS 2 & O AND TELE-

PHONE NO. 2-6860.. NO INFO AVAILABLE IN FILE INDICATING SUBJECT IS U:S.

PERSON AS DEFINED UNDER E. 0. 11905- Y

2• THERE ARE NO IDENTIFIABLE HEADQUARTEFS TRACES ON ALBERTO

CRES PO MOLINA. Y

Je VILE!

201-2727640 201-2992920

201

-327664. EZ IMPDET • N

LA/COMMENTS REQUESTED TRACES ON TWO CUBAN EXILES LIVING IN

NICARAGUA•

ana.

000:

WATC

LAME ANTEN

Xº04%

Tara orda

LA/COO

C/PESIT

AWWWWE WITH

* IMPDAT

aY Qd:040

---

## Page 74

14-00000

38800-17

PERSONANT NOTIFIER

_TOTAL COMES 32-2-

SECRET

aDVARCE COPY INSUECISLOTTED

ACTICSOS WRET

LAS

AERON A

T 430301

VR

NES AGGlADO

0D03 POSTITCH YPES ERSEGa

SIAlK SUAlEE

t1A671

SeA

PAGE 01

TUA: 23 21 573

DEC 76

§EGRET GiLJAE DEC 76 STAFF

12618.

aBBING 1

TO: CERECTOR.

NNILTEL REAM MISFIKE

FFF,

12616(119758)

ACCORLING TO EÑHAPPY-1 SEID ERNESTO AGREU INO

STATION TRACES, IS THE LEADER UF THE CUBAN ACTIVISTS RESIDENT

IN NICAMAUUA, ALL HAS THE LOCAL CONTACT. FOR ORLANDO BO SEN

MHEN THE LATTER VISITEE MANAGUA IN SEPTEMBER 1976 ISEE

1246C HE PRIOR REFS), ABREU TOLD EL THAT-LE SEP

UP PEt FINÜ DETHiEN BOSCH AND EHACORN 1 DURING WHICH BOSCH

ASKED FOS UNSPECIFIEU MELE FUR HIS CAUSE. ABREU TOLO EI

THAT ERACORNS WAS FRIENDLY TOWARD BOSCH, BUT WAS NON-COMMITAL

ON THE SUNNECT OF ALCO

2, tOS ADDEO PMAT ME HAD ONE @HIFF SOCIAL CONTACT WITH

BUSCA IN MANAGUAD AND ALSO KNÖW THAT FAANK CASTHO PAR MAS

SO HEQUEST MAGES ON FOLLONINO CURAN AXILES REBIDENT

299297.

NO CANENTO ANGUI ACCUNINO TO NOS, ANNOU WAS AN

---

## Page 75

9-80 A @ 8/70

_ SECRET

MTMODUETIOA

# +

ACHaNCE COPY

•SHUED BLOTTED

ACTION LIMIT

RF.

STAFF

FILE

ACTION a

T

4 03 01

El Ad 71

PAGE 62- J2

TO R: 3321 57 2 DEC 76

ON-ISLAND ASSET AT THE TIME OF THE DAY OF PIGS

INVASION WHiÜ TOON ASYLUM AFTER THE OPERATION

FAILED.

HE IS CURRENTLY RUNNING RICE PLANTATIONS

ANU PROCESSING PLANTS BELONGING TO THE ERACORN 1

FAN 86 YO

", ALBERTO GRES PO MOLINA: SELF-EMPLOYED

RICE JO ObER.

FILE:

228-278764, 201-2992920 EZ.. IMPDSP;

IN 11 92 65

12617

---

## Page 76

SPECIAL REPORT

Cuban Extremists in U.S. ,26

A GROWING TERROR THREAT

Miami

'CUBA"

OMINICAN

TRICOTO

HAITI

RICO

REPUBLIC

•JAMAICA

BARBADOS.

MEXICO

VENEZUELA

Our from Miami spreads a wave of vio

lence. Terroriats' alm ls to topple Castro, free

Cuba. Nearly all Cuban refugees share this

dream. But the note of a lew senlots create

trouble for fellow anilea and fur the U.S.

Heported from

MIAMI and WASHINGTON

Terporium by parleul Culano collars hux lecome a lorry

probleon In the conduct of UN, Purian policy nud, In the

view of nuns authorilles, a prentin threat to the lives of

American leuders

The torrorists' soul la la wrose control ef Cholo away from

Ia Communat diletutor, onlo Caustro,

In marault of that meal, thess luve loansel a trull of voloner

Preem Mino serums the Cincillamn sere, ant only to Conlee but

the Routh Allentle do Arguelle.

They huve c0g1414l In a narles nd' benningn in the 01.5. and

mis prous.

Tlay have carried

A federal armed fury in Arms de vantagion the wetlet.

dam antel thrude leelara.

Now, an a 1880 Aellatrottom purgeon des likes e0v00p 11s.

Bhole atoncke do no offore lo thwart my tur dosure reconcili.

milan with C'aden.

Omebe handlar Will Dude operations worn Out mano di

the Cuban entrantee will alge so nothing, not even 18

In the worldl leslay,"

Many of one doerorlaba worn beated loy the Caratrod Idolli.

once Agendy 100 the doge When thie doomery one doylon do

ovarthram Gimbro, of kill him,

The Arounder

houndo 6000

190: 118. WIND A INSAIA

uTe concentral!:

"The oscrabline unjor.

its of the Calmons die Mind sarc

strongly unlo-C'antro.

That's

why theg croine loa Minund irs

the fired pluce, Ting are ulas

kaseo-salsdeldnsseel01e0.9gasshes.8841k9

nebiete 19988901100184,

munilead

their oppositione los Chastro lo

"Hession, there are de sonall

number of incisionle show

hatred of Cris Prle Minia-

top fidel Cantro and Connu.

Dr: Orlando Bosch, an andia.

Castro leader, Is accused In

plane bombing fatal to 73..

8089980-1108 1808l Alre no 180 cans.

• in

extralegal nellons and to

lolato the lasse of the country

Thoro Inelivlilonio une Dosa

County as a bure for intermntional torrordan... singe

carmenu.

misin, purporteel Communes sued Individine wine toke. d

"Some Came arouge purporting to lo loonlonel in borroga

1nd-Bype ntsucks asinot almo Colan Circronment 1016 1001008084.

126451129219.

Other inventino olarge Coat the copterina, lo bennes

these condo, bave seale lno exacle 68018d 0000880008d6ans 10060: 110

The numelroo of burelerore loccordan le conell, colliedallo

your alone bly dauso siller husad mend or lumn scanned

of much nele us

Decon Cordina anal colleg Ginnedsd 1a8lr014.

• Plundiose do locate Mend 0001a00d Des aried of no Coltans

70 11114.

---

## Page 77

14-00601

EXILES vs. 1

CASTRO—

A Relentless

Pursuit

On Jan. % 1959, Fidel Castro look power and

the first wave of relugees fled Cuba. A small

number of the 600,000 exiles who sertled in the

U.S. have become extremists.

Highlights of ovents in those 18 years,

some

involving lamabiding exiles, others involving the

extremist

10688 A 1,300 man Cuban Brigade, armed and

trained by the U.S. in Florida, Guatemala und Nica-

mague, landed at the Bay of Pigs on Cuba's south

shore. The invasion uns a failure.

1088: Survivors of the Bay of Pigs were released

by Castro after payment of a 53-million-dollar ran-

em in drugs, food, medical equipment.and other

supplies from

"private contributions" President

John F. Kennedy, in Miami, pledged to the Cuban

exiles that the Brigade flag would one day fly over a

Hborated Cuba.

U.S. launched its secret "Operation Mongooso"

• plan to uso Cuban criles in parainilitary war

• mait Castro while U.s. maintained an economic

mochade to shate the island a economy. The attacks

generally failed.

1064 Culan extremists In New York Cily freel a

mortar sholl at United Nations as Cuba's Chó Gue-

vare addresand the General Assembly,

10071 Cuban exile specialists and U.S. trained

Bolivian troom trapped and killed Cuevara and

ponte of his Communist guerrillas In Bolivia.

10«0-Y*: Cuban-exile extremists bombed ships:

ef mations conaldered to bo friendly so Custro, ter.

portmed other exiles to keep them in line:

10981 Cuban calles trainee by Contral Itell-

ence Agency took purt in Watoryuta broak-In, later

matilled that they laught It would help their ant

Castro cainpalgn:

10701 U.8, and Cube signod agrecent almod at

controlling hlucklag of alrorult and plrocy of shia

1094•901 Cuban oxtroninto eaplodad enoro than

100 bombe in Minunt aren In two-your jarinel, hitting

oniona of tho 1'10, a State altornug and the Mium!:

polico departmont.

Endlo torrorite attackeel alrilos offlone and connil.

atoa of governmonto thue luvr diplomatio polatloma

will Cantre, Momboue dook pluce do Jonnen, Alerte

Do Portugal, Poorto Aleo, lumnon, olboy countrien

Fishing bonde Dunod los Conto cond Movie cargo.

shipo wore alinched by hah-epond motor Innohes

manurel ly mullo outrentals.

and

CUBAN EXTREMISTS

(sanand to pretting sopol

a former ('hilean Anbussador in Mashington, D.C', on Sep-

temby 2l.

@ Milaging too Chalen anticials in Argentina

• Allimpting to kidnap a Cubon maisd in Merito

18ho ano three perrorists? What motivates them? llos do

thog operati And uhy are U'.5 ulticial so concernid about

shal chris may do in the future?

To ansury such questions Ore Hello and Carl J. Migdail of.

Phe diS dees d Mirld Regeire stult dus derals into the

reroris, interriers Cuban refusers who share the hopes

though not the methods of the terrorists, and talled to lan-

enforcemont officials a ho are trying to sten the riolence.

BREEDING GROUND FOR TERRORISM

After Fidel Castro tool over Cohe in 1959 and it bocane

apparent that he intonded to pstablisla in Communist state.

300,000 Colas

"anter with their fior" and fled their

homokeel. Sons 600,000 of them wetler in the L'miter

States. Theg anel their children nos total t50,000. Most of

thea lior in the Miami area.

The munrity of these ingrunts ur low abiding. But

Mim's "Little flurana" provides a culture in shich the

virus of violence cun grow.

"In Miaond."

rexplains one refugme leader, "the Cubans

keeps. their mitional identits, their herituge, traditions.

hutreels and their hayes of going buck to their homeland.

And theg know they can't po buck mnit Castro is gone. So

they dream of topplice Castro. Wine is charl relistic in

other pluers in the United States seems sory possible in the

almosphoro in Mlismi."

In the carly lotits, the overthrow ol' C'stro seemed to the

Culms in exile to lo not only posible but almost incvitable.

It was U.s, policy to drive him from power.

Ther seas on

alempt do nonse Couls at thr lag of lga in 11968 with un

army of Clubun exiles recruitrel and traineel in seerrt by the

ClA. The insures serr not gioch the air cavor necrossary for

a suceralad attuck, and the operation sus a disaster. Only

180 of about 1:00 inaclers ereupeed death or cupture. The

Culans fell betrayerl.

Then cune other American moree ngainst Castro. There

Was a seera "Capadion Monsoons" which Incheslee efforts

ceononte blockude of Cara ln as allenipe do provent Cistro

larous. Later, Chulame potogenes sore unel lo curry su mere

mporntlons.not only da to Certion lude alas 110 other procto

To many Catamo refugee madnello Case und Commis.

P088088 130-C7831169 0 18123: 60f 11110

U.A. Restor buse Mesoteed Come Do 1070, Crolen Inale

Hit

maresent nih the Underal Madne In enrole she nipples

Ao thude hope of Amortern settin mandad Counten elibred.

TERRORIOT LEADIAS AND TACTICO

laportede loose noondord:001090090010009-800050.0000.080.

have imbrody lamin do lad boture do no rapeed by the

UA NEWE A WORLD RIPORT: 000 0.

---

## Page 78

slogans and initials of jee another group. Among groups

manor in testimony before the Sendle Internal Scurity

Subcommittre are: Accion Cubana. or Cuban Action: Alphia

66, a name adopted when victory in 1966 seemed possible:

FLiC, standing for Frente de Liberacion Vacional de Cuba.

which means Cuban National Liberation front, and Pragma-

tistas, which moans what it sounds like pragmatists.

A gromp calling itself Zero issued a "death list" of people

marked for killing and, according to officials, several persons

din the list soon died violent deaths.

Dade County's antiterrorist head, Licutenant Lyons, says

he has stopped trying to keep track of the groups and instead

concentrates on trying to solve the crimes that they are

suspected of having committed. Ile has no shortage of

business. Ilore is a sample of the violence attributed lo

terrorists in the last two ycars:

• Since February, 1975, there have been it leust seren

assesrination attempts directed aguinst refugee leuters wo

were vicued as oplonents of the terrorists tactics. Three

men were shot to death. One was killed by a brinb. Three

other attempted killings failed, but a prominent radio broad-

caster lost both legs below the knees when a bomb ripped his:

ear apart.

• On Dec. 3-4, 1975, bombs blasted the Miami office of the

Federal Burcau of Investigation, a Social Securily office, a.

State unemployment office, two post offices, a bunk, i State

liorncy's office and the Miami police-department headquar-

ters. A man accused of those bombings, and also the bombing

of the Minmi International Airport two months carlier, was

acquitted recently in a federal court. He is to be tried again

In a State court.

• A number of bombs have been exploded in Now York.

One blow out the window of the Venezucion consulate on

Fith Avenue, across the street from Se. Putrick's dAtedral.

• On lets. I2, 1976, a Sovirt freighter, the Dahorlan

Brunes, was sitting motionless 35 miles off Cula's north coust

while its tanks were being cleaned. Suddenly a small boat

raced close to the freighter and ruked it with hoavy machine.

fun fire. No one was injured.

• On April 8, 1976, two Cuban Ashing boats were attncked

and a lahormon was killed.

• On' Sept. 21, 1076, In Washington, D.C., a bomb ex.

ploder. an a cor and killed Orlando Leteller, a formor Chilean

Amba lador to tho U.S. undor the Marxist regino of tho late

Pretent Salvador Allende. Although tho crime le officinily

unsolved, thore have boon persistent reports thut the bomb

was planted by Cubon Ioororials us a "luvor" to the kierct

pollo of the present anti-Communat Governmeni in Chile.

NEW TERRORIST STRATEGY

Lendorn of tho torrorist bunels uro hurd to lebrutify, Hut uno

man has eropged an in appuront louters foe: Coplanelo Horeh,

@ podlutrtel, llo wue cougie Melon a Insola st s Pollah

ship in Alland harbor In 1009 and wus entonced to 10 yourn

"Er. These was released on prole unto for yees, if his

reportedly roturned to the movement. Ilo la now under

orrent In Venernola, churged along will theer ather more in

connoetlon with the Chalum airline Ionins, Ir. Honch in

doorbed an she loudor of the group callon laalf Acclon

Channe.

In June of thie yoor, De. loach called a small promp of hon

follow notivate trurther in the Demonken Hoguble. Thoy

were tharply slivier on dicy not strairky.

ome wonted in avole the riske of Martle ntlucke in lie

Untied Ataloo ond to concontrate lite offorts inadant Ciantro

outedo able emmay, Culmee hole out lop contronio Choir

solven hotle here and adroud.

Añer a heated armumone, o choby narenond wia reuclod

1418

1-10,

Automobile bombing that killed a Cuban refugee in Miami is one

of many unsolved crimes arributed to anti-Castro terrorisis.

to focus their efforts outside the U.S. To dirvet the actisitics.

# new group was formed with the initials CORU, which stand

for Coordinacion de Oranizaciones Revolucionaires Unidas

in Spunish or Coordinating Committee of United Revolu-

tionary Organizillotis la English.

American luv-enforcement oflicials say that mombers of

CORU hase the bucking of powerful forers, perhups even

the governments themselves.

in some countries-of Latin

Arnericu. The torrorists ure described as "at home" in llaiti.

the Dominicun Ie public, Nicuragu and Chile. They are well,

urmed for terroristie nets, as shown in the bor on page 32.

Since the June morting, a new wave of terrorism has swept

across the Caribran and beyond. Boinbs have. damuged

Cuban nirlino hellties in Burbados, Jamaica and Panamu,

Two Culun ollient were kidwiped in Argentina.

On July 29, three men who hur lown from Minni carrying

threo colleo cing filled with plastie explosive attempted to

klalmogo Cola Censol Dunet Perror d'ormanclor-is Serieke.

Mexico. Ho eserpent, but a Culain Ashries expert was killerd.

The most serious act of terrurim came:on October 6.

when a Culanu Airlines DC-d exploded in flight shortly after

tuking off froin Burbades. The plane fell into the sea, killing

73 persons including membors of the Cuban nutional fencing

In mosagce to nows media, both CORU und El Condor. u

group unhoud of previously, chimed responsibility for the

crush of the plune,

Dr. Hosch, who has troveled iraly on documents appur-

ently proskieel by officials of Costrumonts frondly to the

ant Cantro movement, sas pickeel up in Verrenela und on

Novembor & was characel with infeite in councction with

the plane crush. Torro other men are sendurly chural.

Tho arrenta of Dri Waach and his colores lasloudl if

vinience.

I Conse, do a messages 1o- Ho Wedded Prens

International nee Neveenberg A malel Cio Gange mom had loy the

IГ 1l0009 10085..-

convatel, ponim i lue Versarlos International Abrasys

will loes adduckrad: Coos Ones rainess sloy, (:811841-99-18 08 101999968990

Malate to Aluvutue.

Cuatro lay munion all Class coulter Good lokes annel loonbara:"

Carlandlo entel.

CRACKDOWN BY LAW OFPICERO

Inepedallo volornere In lee Altaot boron. That may lie ae remot

class da to be pollay What me mann by Con hoot Jong:

---

## Page 79

14-00000

CUBAN EXTREMISTS

(continued from preceding pago)

includes representatives from Dade County and Miami po-

lice,

the U.S. Customs Service and the U.S.

Bureau of

Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms. Although the Federal Du-:

reau of Investigation is not formally a part of this task force,

its agents work closely with it.

With co operation from Cuban refugees who are sich of

the terrorist violence, law officers have arrested a number of

suspects. Police also have learned enough about other sus-

pects so that their freedom to engage in new acts of violence

can be limited even though there is not enough evidence lo

prosecute them.

A federal grand jury is interrogating witnesses who might

have some knowledge of terror opcrations.

Efforts of law-enforce nent officials to deal with the terror.

ist groups face formidable handicaps, however. The terrorists.

seem to know what police are doing. Licutcrant Lyons

relates that one suspect "identified one of my officers who

hnd never met him before, called him by name und told him

what section he worked in and what his dutics were."

Terrorists are protected by a web of old loyalties: Most of

them worked at one time or another for. tho U.S. Goren-

ment. Many have had several roles: members of the U.Si...

Army, CIA opcratives and FEl informants. One refuger

leader suggests that law enforcement officials have not found

the killers of Cubans "because they don't want to."

A further complication is the heavy Infliration of the

terrorist movement: by: members of Castro's intelligenco

corps. They not only gather intelligence but sometimes act as

aronts provocateurs, instiguting terrorist acts designed 8o

escredit the refugees and influence American polley.

The Cuban Prans Minister has "surfere" chough of such

agents to reveal their pattern of opcration, barly this yeur;

for example, Manuel do Armas, a Cuban refugeo who was

mmmed In Senate committee testimony an having bren f

volved in torrorist netlvities in Miami, showed up in llarun.

In an April 22 broudcast by Molio Has una, Do Arras mold

hat he had supplied the explosives used in the killing of a

man named Rolando Masferrer and that a ClA agent had

provided him with the explosives.

n'a speech on October 15, Cantro bounted of a deall

unt who Castro claimed had passed on cosod Instruction

TERRORISTS' ARSENAL:

PLANES TO CANNONS

thal ls cordiablo lo Gulda leraoriato la

1089.78

• 10 er more high-speed motor leunchen. • 1 0mm cannon, wilh 100: rounde o

cou. 30 leet long, wilh special lue

expiceive ammunition

danka for oxire tengo

@ 498 submachine guna 400 al trom wit

• A number of omall, apotler averafi

Stencere

• Large-caliber recolleas niles

• explosive devies

• Miser anillant weapons

0,860 pounde of dynamiie and TNT

• Wido assorlmont of amaler weapone

4 bones of napalm

• Large quantion ol C-4 explosiveo develo.

oped by the U.d, Army

• #O handgune

• Theutande al rounde el emmuntien

from the ClA and Citro: "Piron the very moment slue he

was recruited by the ClAnd over a period of 10 years. the

suppesee agent has kept the Culen Coverament fully in-

formed of all his contiers with (the CIA) und of the equip.

ment and instructions he has received."

Castro blamed the CIA for the airliner bombing and other

wets of sinlence: "I'ho else but the ClA... can carry out

these acts"" Castro asked.:

Secretary of State Henry Kissinger has flatly denied U.S.

involvement in the airliner bombing. He said: "I can state

categorically that no official of the United States Govern-

ment, nobody paid by the American Government, nobody in

contuct with the Arnerican Government has had anything lo

do with this crash of the airliner. We consider actions like this

totally roprchensible."

Tho ClA declines to discuss. Cuban refugee terrorism.

Officials of other Government agencies say they seriously

doube that the ClA, after all the criticisen it has receiver for

some of its curlier, activities, is still involved in operations

against the Castro regime. However, the agency is described

as provicing very liule help in combatting the terrorist

groups. "We have absolutely no contict with the ClA," says

Licuterant Lyone. "I'd like to, but licy don't talk to us." One

reuson for. that attitude miny be that laws bur the ClA from

domestle law enforcement activitics.

Other lows, or the lack of them; also complicate the flucht

against the terrorists. U.S, agencies cannot lecome Involved

In Investigutions of terrorism outside the United States unleas

tho crime involves violations of ncutrality laws making it

filegn to couspire in this country to commit crimes ubroad or

to export arins without a license.

Althouch shocked by thr October 6 airliner bombing. U.S.

officinle reluctontly decided there was no nuthorlantion for

the Plil lo color there coes

With such hanleaps as these, law enforcement officials may

thoy cun look forward to only limitrel succras against the

terrorists, Any real solution do the problem munt come from

within the Culmn relugro communily nd investitutors

stato thie the es-operation they are three dome not extend in

cases of violener committed outside the U.s.

WHAT HAVE TERRORISTS GAINED?

An officlula alze up. the effecte uf the Berrorit ci

The only tangible accomplinhment has been do push custro

Into renouncing the unhleeding

treaty, thus discuromina ellers 10-

ward a diplomatle cocirclotin bo.

Dometo all the derrorial plode and

sil an head of a Canonned relie

on Circle. And le appeare los line sello

SД4Р+49

thad 1it6?

movannent termed man honda noi

remunes by Americin policy muh.

0FB.

Throudent

Curter,

When he leone drood

movomnone, mel that that hounkere

will nevor he loraded fruin turne

To butle officlose and Chumo rollo

SO 151de09, 10 agone bayle thu

to Corporale dill continum there al

MINATE WY

the only mother they

annwartice acte of vilence.

V.O. NOWO A WORLO REPONY, 000: 0, 1010

---

## Page 80

14-00000

VI. 17 Hoy 76

I 8

VENEZUSIA

The Senate created a commission to investigato

t0r80r1st 80t1+16108, Conspiracles 6e

disrupt order and disrespect for authorities.

The commiasion w111 also submit to the sanate a bill to regulate the nativities of the

@ntle organirations and persons not subjiet to the control of the state.

Borator Hermogenes Lopos atated that the commission should also Inventigate the . 300

Jabans who form part of the Cuban Embansy in Veneruola."

Organsantions of ex120n from Cuba, Bollula, Ch1l0, Uruguay, Argentina, Paraguay, sprin

and Portugal are currently operating in Co"a0a8.

CURAT ANTI-CASTRO IRADER DENIES ACCUBATIONS

Indred US In OpAnian 1534 MY 16 Her 76 PA

(rant] carons, 86 nor-The anti-castro lender orlando Bouch entecortonily Confed be

mnd Dianned the sousninntion of U d. Seoretiry of State Linty Klininger, of Conta

Rienn Voreten Aff 120 Minister Conmalo Tasto nid of Pasell Allendo and his «1rl 17100d

Donch's denimi was convoyed by his Innyor Franesco Lindro More, the unid that his

doSundant: Movor called to Those and that won pinond Allende Arrived 10. C006n Riel.

Bonah hnd been in thin country for 40 dayo."

"pennesd by some 1011u06101 personaireles, " Hors pointed out.

Morn mine suads "An a polseseins, Bones molly does not understand wine the plot te

gnant his, 1o mion Midel'a Intelligeno verdon shou an Interese in Kianinger a

34fº Ind OIl Cronto aro orying to destroy 111 hone nuruling Againt the Cuben regime

annie lorh aldnd ohme Bosch olnime that he personally does not know hernie 000r0e

• Cuban, alno hired so hast Kinninger, Bosording to reporte. From 11nnh, but chal n

oneh in being proceened by vonomelan suthorities, presumbly as the bruin behind thi

abooman of che Oubln plans which en 6 0etebes arploded nons marbaden lisaine 19 DePenD.

Mr emine be k0 innocent.

had deto d

У : 1!

the airmanda circla. d1500a10114

smoot hide need rael mr maced any coura

interrain.

de. 16 deg

410190 611

stand elite do

use close arians errao do angeline a eide destroy

du a go si

coad do deader aran And change..

201-Brrcl

Astrid p0

919929+8%

L

---

## Page 81

VI. 17 Nov 76

MEXICO

PCO LEADER ACCUSES U.9. OF INTERVENTION IN I.A.

Havana Domestio Service In Spanish 0000 OUT 17 Nov 76 FL

(reatl PCr: Central Committee merber Raul Valdes Viro, Who 18 participating as a quest In

the opening conference of autumn courses of tim Sohool of Bonosy of tie lational Autono-

mus Univeraity of Mx100, said in a lecture ho gave today that the Unsted States has

Intervoned in Latin Amrion with troops and eapital.

Chle year's autum courses of the Moxiean university deal with the copte "Horld economy

and sootal changos."

In his speech.

the chief of the PCC Central Committee Poreign Rela-

Etons Generul Department pointed out that Mexico as a people and an a country has always

defended the right of the cuban people to choose ite own pach.

Valden Vivo sosa that cuba 15 buildino true soelalian sinoe st began to fondow a pro..

sens different from the one being followed to date by the ocher countries of the contin

ent, « precame which mkes the right to self-determination a concon cause for the rese of

Entin Anario, Internationaliam and ita practioe, Valdes Vivo said in his speech, has

aIways been dirooted at--from the days of the Paris commune to the Spanish Clyll Was and

do the Angulan confliot-giving support to peoples who atrussle with choir own strength

for the continuntion of thoir own history and agninat forses that have com from abroad

mont by the enenes of chose peoples.

-Valdos Vivo affirnd that rovolutiona cannot be exported, nevercheless, the United States

has Intervened in Latin Amorion wich des eroops and sta dollaro and ham. Emian part of

Oho sorriterson of vom countries, na in the case of 1r100.

1. • COVERIEST HAS BUPPORT OF THE MASSES, BAYS OVAILE

matoe O80y INDONX in Spanish SO AISA BuOiOn ALPeS I1J1 ON 16 Nor 76-71

(Tons l Meleo 0108, 16 Nov (ANSA--INTOREX) 'Cho madonn stato does not control es

mnagulate the vorior, peasant and popular noctora, on the contrarg, 10 only has their

Duppore and O'nt 1n why the covernment in not afraid of tunetsn" estrad Ignelo Ovaldo

Pornondol, negretary of the pronidonag of the republio,: Who salad all Maxionna do stop.

Atsonâng do the sumore Dras are being aprond throughout Die country..

In sostemonto do orior de she opening ceremony of uhe farat Anternetonal conference en

ohe fantig, which 1a being hold in Ohio opicad, Ovadle: Vernandon warned Unne, In Vsew of

Ono scanolidnuion of one popular baes, any ascrenston of the sinarioy elances 482à nes

DO D9-9814800 TRADI SAPIONE RIPONTED:

i Dulason dolloso in cho firo O monore of Onso gear.

Thin do contained dn'an Indusurg

ond Comoroo Bearebarind noudy union also Assolonoo orno mrovor in amportationa vna.

mallar do ohno durina uld of 1919.

An far no emports are coneernoi, the drop experionood in augar emperts: anouid: be solntod

mu8.

Dunno nolon durina bho Cireo O monono of 1015 arounted do 1,979 bialion posse,

whale Dha fleuro was only do60ó usalion peace for oha ner pordod this yoar;

The inorease

In Aporentions do based primarily on @he

monuinsolon of nomiurablo. conumor.good0g.an

•luding condonned and comporated mail, coreado, piermontdoad producte and asocholdo

Severaged.

---

## Page 82

BE H

835-06-1084-86--

SECRE

SINCTION BE iPHER

@OFFICE IS

PROMISI

ISTAFF

FILE

LAS

DDO3 PES/ACY

SPCS: CI4, EESJEG2

7619936

CAlSOGI! SIALEL SIA.

ADDOO LSU/ID

EL A7 58

PAGE

TOR: 302116& NOV 76

19

IN 115213

17 965

SECR

ET

3022532 NOV 76 STAFF

17885

TOS DIRECTOR, LARMIAMI.

IN LATEL MMSPIKE

FEFS.:

0 ,

727881 NOT NEEDED LAMENTY CIN 115115)

17895 CIN 0ud891)

G, LADMIAME 25328 CHAL OLICANS!

SO STATION. IMPRESSION IS THAT

_MILITARY I PARPICULARLY

AIR VONGED ARE WELL DISPOSED. TOWARD CUBAN RIGHTIST TERRORISTS.

ENIGMAJ-WAS ASKED TO EXPLORE SUBJECT WITH ENFETCHOIO (E-19S

AND FOLLOWINO IS INFONMATION DEVELOPED BY HIM OVER LAST FEW

BO DOSO 18 FRIENDLY WITH ORLANDO ROSCHO PRANK CASTRO AND

OTHBA CUBAN RIONTISTE.

6°19. SAYS HE HAS ALNANS MCDLLABORATED

WITH THEM DECAUSE THEY ARQ FRIENDS OF THE

AIR

FORCE PARACHUT IBT8 1019 18 A. PARACHUTIST, NOT A PILOTI,

FOSS: ARMAVINO IDATE UNANONNI POR A NUMBER OF THESE CUBAND

WE MAD PUANDO A PARAGHUTIBT CLUB KNOWN AS THE SHALEONES

BENDAS", TO JUMP WITH THE

AIR POACH PARACHUTE.

BATALLION,

FILE COUY FOR

101-44R142

DO NOT DRAPROY

L

---

## Page 83

SECRET

ramanana!?! 10. 19%

мерой TaT

1:59297.5160

E22 SLOPED:

RF. FILE.

=4.8io

IS PROMIDITEU

VR

11, 99÷

371758

PAGE 52

TOR: 322116₴ NOV 76

IN 115275

17€85

3. E-19 FOSTERED THE IDEA OF ASSIGNING AIR FORCE OFFICERS.

AS SECURITY GUARDS ON

AIRLINES FLIGHTS BECAUSE THEY

COULD BE USED "PARA ENVIAR QUALQUIER MATERIAL, " E-19

PERSONALLY INTROCUCTED AIB FORCE LIEUTENANT FRAVCISCO.

ESTEVER RAMIREE ALIAS PANCHO

SECURITY GUARD

PRESENTLY OUT ON BAIL IN MAIM! PENDING TRIAL ON ARMS SMUGGLING

CHARGESI PO FRANK CASTRO, ESTEVER, WAS USED MANY TIMES TO CELIVER

ARMS AND PACKAGES TO "CASTRO'S GROUP" ON BEHALF OF EDIO AND THE

ALR FORGE.

THESE SAME CUBANS HAVE SOLD ARMS TO

AIR FORGE OFFICERS, ¡NEGUDINO COLONEL ISIDOROMARPAN

PAN INTIMATE FRIEND OF E-SODE COLONEL CASTRO CRUN AND

COLONEL LUIS DE AU CHAMP S JAVIER. (PRESIDENT OP

AIRLINES AND

SECRETARY OP SPATE OF PHE

ARMED FORGED, DENGRAL RONG @ & AU

DO NOS MAY WISH PASS ABOVE INPO ON ACTIVIPIGO ON STEVEN

BAND PRESUMABLY OTHER

SCURITY QUARONS TO. FOS ANO

GU SPOM 8.

PLO AOVISO IP PASSCO,

'1601

+986742309: 891-299298, 891-869854% Bai INEGEP,

---

## Page 84

14-00000

.600

8 81806-: 1078

CABLE SEC DISSEM UY.

PER'S IN LINET NOTIFIED

3...

ADVARGE COPY ISSUEDISLOTTED

44e

FILE

1 385622

SECRET

HEERODUCTION

ISSUING OFFICE 1

STAFF

VR

ETH 16

SCTY

eit = FAGE di

TOR: 16,21472 NOV 76

SECRET P NOV 76 STAFF

51454

CITE

TOS DIRECTOR.

WNINTEL RYBAT FUDWELL WABOXER

REFS!

S14&JENOT SENT /NEEDED

10 NOVEMBER 1976

DIRECTOR 940767

•Do REFERENCE O PRANSMBYTED XEROX COPY OF COSTA RICAN

PASSPORT ISSUED TO ORLANDO 8 OS EN AVILA IN NAME CARLOS

6U88 PANIAQUA MENDER WHICH IS LATEST PRAVEL DOCUMENT USED

DY BOSCH• QUALITY OF XEROX IS UNFORTUNATELY NOP BEST AND

BOMB OF TRAVOL ENTRIES NOT COMPLETELY LEGIOLE. FORWARDING

ANOTMER XEROX COPY OF APPACHMENP PI MET A TO

JUNDER

TH 844929,

ll600 801080046190 920 SMPOOT.

TI 109T

31 45€

Cow 100.628)

chose ruLe cory ron

404-098486

DO NOT DEATROY

L

---

## Page 85

(

CAL

SECURE STORAGE

UNICINATOR'S RIGUEST FOR MOS. PROCESSIAG

MORNINE PECUESTED

DISPATCH

CLASSAFICALION

SECRET

Chief of Station,

Chief, Latip America Division

Chief of Station,

ABJECT

REAM/HUFABRIC/WKBOXER

ACTION RETAL RUIN ASMitta] Of Reference Passport

REFERENCE:

31443

. WARNING NOTICE-SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND

NETHODS INVOLVED

APERTURE CARD REQUESTED

forwarded herewith is the Xerox copy of the

passport mentionod in reference.

Frederick C. BRADSPIES

Attachment:

Раворобе Хотож Сору, п/и

Dineributon!

Отав 4

GOER, w/at

w/att.h/w

RA SMUG AND MONTI

538MPDET

CHRONO

16: Novenher 1076

WET HIT HONOTO

.T.

---

## Page 86

soms

14-3741

3

38-1

ISSUI8G.179814 8 7897796499+899

STAFF

"2:C8 COPY

ISSUEDSLOrTED.

EPION UNIT

RF: FILL

N

va. 1P/AN, DD03, AEC/D00,

ACTION ®

F

OB/IT6 7, UE8, CI7, T3/Eg2, OS6,

T: 320732

40 8112,--

E1AI47

PAGE Uj-01

TOR: 2116252 OCT 76

91

IN

876553

20031

SECRET ET115418 0CT 76 STAFF

CITE

20031

TENSO DIRECTOR.

MNINTEL REAM HUFABRIC MMSPIKE

JHAS REQUESTED STATION ASSISTANCE IN

OBTAININO DETAILS COSTA RICAN PASSPORT REPORTEDLY USED BY

::ORLANDO @OS EH AVILA TO ENTER VENGEUELA. "

_ HAS TRIED

TO OBTAIN INFO DIRECTLY FROM VENEZUELAN AUTWORITIES WITHOUT

SUCCEsS.

Do ANY DATA

RICAN PASSPORT WHICH MAY

MAY GE ABLE TO PROVIDE ON THE COSTA

WILL HE APPRECIATED.

J. PILLI 201-3007850 10-0-2013 NAIMPDET

4,20

Soder

GRAND

. •A

---

## Page 87

14-00000

FAd. Civ.

29 mr.

POTAL GORI: 35-1-

MPHODUCTON BY OTHER

833 JUDG

OFFICE Is PROMIeTED

SP AFF

SEASON/URT NOTHIER.

SQUANCE COPY ISSUEDSLOPTER

ACHLON UNIT

LAS

AF. FILE

VR. iPlAN, NE 8

ACTION D

OPSLITOY, 000 3, AGIODO

056

T 302256

TOR:152214Z NOV 76

IN

1 10 86 28

31443

SECRET 152153Z NOV 76 STAFF

CÌ TE I

TO 1/

REF!

31445

TENFO DIRECTOR,

WNINTEL REAM MUFABRIC MHSPIKE

JaBass (IW016560)

POUCHING XEROX COPY OF REF PASSPORT WHICH FINALLY

OBTAINED FROM WASCARLET

12 NOVEMBER, REGRET DELAY

DUE NON-AVAILABILITY OF PASSPORT WHICH HAD BEEN IMPOUNDED

FOR• TRIAL EVIDENCE PURPOSES; WHEN PASSING XEROX COPY TO

STATIONº WINOULE WKNOULE"2A CUMMENTED THAT COPY HAD ALREADY BEEN

PASSED TO COSTA RICAN EMBASSY IN RESPONSE URGENT REQUESP

PROM EMBASSY, WANOGLE 26 HAS NO OSSECTION TOL

STATION PASSAGE OF XEROX. 9C L

+8681 808-0384765, 1806-2013, 82. 8MP9&P;

---

## Page 88

REPUBLICA DE COSTA RICA

PASAPORTE

(PASSPORT)

LA DIRECCION GENERAL DE MIGRACION

DEL MINISTERIO DE SECURIDAD PUBLICA

sop lea a las autoridades elviles y militare

Kequests the civil and military authorities of the

countries

de la polses por donde transite el portador,

through which the bearer travele to provide

no lo pongan obsticulo y lo preston ayude y

prolacción on onso necarario..

anistance without delay or hindrance and pro.

motion as may be nocemamsy..

penalén pulen derenho.

Thumb-pelme, riche hord

---

## Page 89

14-00000

NÓ. DEL PISAPORTE @4H6-7J

Hombre

4541

Torader

Hester's

tane

danilos kuis Pniaoua No inars

Dron an ¿ SAN JOSE, COSTA RICA

à 10o -f8 diss del me do Fehers

Damnictite

Addecis

Is an 27 egosto 935

Pretenien a Orieto

saris onesiante

Identification car

Sant to ella 8°1-241-109

Potsde studl

agical adre Tales

Marks

Vard her / 8 Sphero /973

Valid intil

udiendo ser renova

anta completar di

adimienta

PERSONAS INCLUIDAS EN ESTE PASAPORTE

PERSONS INCLUDED IN THIS PASSPORT

Membre de la espesa

Wild's name

Casia de Mentiand

alentillention

806689

Timbe am nite

unme

bat of briantante

Hembre

dal sile

Child's sume

Pete to an

mastmlente

* Mamto d0 1180

OTOCRAFIAS

Phaterraph

8.

C B

---

## Page 90

14-00000

EADEVALIDACIONES

ALIDATIONS

tre 3 11.508.74

5

Cavalidado el

Pavliade on )-

Valdo basta

Valid onil

Direetop General de Migrución

Rovnluate.ol

Rovalidnted en

Velido hanta

Valid until

Direator Geroral de Migración

Revallado on }

• Valid

Valia Matal®

ESTE PASAPORTE ES VALIDO PARA DÍRIGIRSE A

THIS PASSPORT IS VALID FOR

TRAVEL TO

Panama

Diratue Geueral de Migración

wwwwh.wacangcnaac.oo.e.on/cncsddpncriossohss

ANas da posoáouedo do aoags ceicon oeroogdo deo dodeed bocsrdeoo

---

## Page 91

OBSERVACIONES

REMARKS

---

## Page 92

td-indon

8

VISAS

315621.

OPanania

1 TOLSGADO DE NIGiAGICAI

VIS'AS

2HTO. DE MIGRACIO

2a3l

SALIDA

IDA

SET. 2 0 1371

CaBa DE gEiea

16 805, 1371

DEI

SDO DE MIGRACION

50000,

'ENTRADA

PASS CMMEAS

Sa. 16, ian.

ENTRADA

20 SET.

. 137:

Si73055

i pagechplns

wthamer cl

Pl Niciugun

123

13

Manahaedames,cccis9os soodedagude yeoio drteamuestenevy

wwwwrww.roaooaiwce.u/a.od.bd.aaniaalaysdd1.ia/aap00406402200.rac.as

insdilgain me enn

LA

---

## Page 93

Ddanäm DE i

10

VISAS *

VISA 10 424/ 64e

nérute

DE coeTs n.ea

LORACISN

'dm ?

183"

T9

ndto

12 S

TAU Len

(n, 367 3.

jesungaigte.'eur pecegongi

•ioi daft s.

egon, ao d9a dot,

SALIDA

15 SET. 1504

ELEGADO DE MIGRAGIOI

Pam Cardas

ENTRADA

•É:0: SET: 1972

PENISRASAS

H6 MAT B7 3AN

SALIDA

lia etoal da sa rushegs les cddmdsseseierio

66991

. st';

---

## Page 94

14-00000

13

VISAS

VIS A VI3A5

-N0. 41416.

DEMARTANTNO E DE VIGERO Cio

-399:0749097990

Coiệ2

Via

0k 225-1575

VISA

DEPARTMAN O CONIGRARON

o'e": 9998 0189000-900

© 109

L

o " ey: 0+9008-9-848394100a

be e ile: 001 0024691pti

---

## Page 95

3 VLSAS CORA M.!

MANAGUA

a 403

Viandp

elido, cum

Eapire pl.

Volto gopo mioro o la

68д 99886N

laror, ue

3C4862

LISUSIA

30 22. 573

гор. 1.

brigin: in.

+8000501

70. 10 0009

прот 10010191008

Mi STE No scusa i

Zes

---

## Page 96

14-00000

1G

VISAS

s89 gag aid.

go one

C

3.1

cose 20: 0 01180, 84, toe

17

VISAS

REPUBLICA DE VENEZUELA

ENSAJADA EN

NICARAGUA

SECCION

No..

COMSYEAR

1:.8!

VISTO BUENO DE CASTRA

АРД ZUE

1895p97- salialo

..v.

DE MECHA

SECUNDS. SECRAPARO

40A EN H1E

---

## Page 97

VISAS

da. a'8o-

48-896-1189r

Pog disiés d'iaupoo vioo

•Bas'mlno Al,ie"

L

•р, ayit"

19

VISAS

id'inls ogpoo" ionoi

₴=8:

8'8 455% dioo, s ,g.

tlu drad poe iani doro oe

nip trson1t'"

¡idioaisfasediassi" ns dos eiioe

---

## Page 98

14-00000

20

•.VISAS

tliises tistns"

36-4- 72

Мека

Hflen

Firiis:

•9i980"

1, ie iaia endo o 9':°

•ifn ojo

M.jai...g.e

d Bat iroia go…?

20 8 134

wt.wd.in.epi.ionge.wois.dises.ei.isicioie.aue@grge@r@.e.cc

---

## Page 99

'o c'" dio di,"

Шlfrвa

0e lm00"890.

10.00

• Apellido emn mm

örattow

e•Nombre

1esegun

g 0911130

TurDez

Nº

572305

•-No. do Cédula

YSegundo nombre

• Pratesioa notiuaiun, Cad (:-Nacionulidad ununain Cod. M-No.do Pasaport:

OrE.CLer uOTCarCek

27HSTT

a Demecton ar e sul pa dutarizacion Male e.Lugar de ex pediston ere vesues

37-6-24

Banacvn 11e1ranr

.a.Dirección on Venezuela 13900e

«,Firma del éxpedidor

тот 1.108

TLTIH

e-Bello del erpedidot

1. PrmeB0e!iвia

Terrestre Ca HARN, Maleno E Terratero

Desting

88. Tranaperisia

Do Ploceds

g..i%

Jadaa "o?

1103

+ 1609

1•991499

pio te Asl:g948984 4904188

C', *

www.globegidse.cong

1.91 82, 00p.

L

---

## Page 100

14-00000

1 litr

ate

€031

OMF

0

ELARAICATIEN

SEÜRET

DONATE MARDUNO MDICATOR

STAFF

CONF:

ShAs

INFO:

FILE

0

0

0118.4008&8008

162000Z

(DIRECTOR

WEBBAGE ПЕРЕПРАСА НИИ

944136

DISSEN BY: C

WOTA

I3 9904E

D

go.

TO:

IMMEDIATE FEDERAL BURÉAU OF INVESTIGATION//ATTN" ROK. MCHARGUE,

GENERAL INVESTIGATIVE VISION V

SECRET -WARNING NOTICE-SENSITIVE. INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS

INVOLVED--NOT RELEASABLE' TOFOREIGN NATIONALS--NOT RELEASABLE TO'

CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACTOR/ CONSULTANTS

SUBJECT: POSSIBLE INVOLVEMENT OF THE NOVO BROTHERS IN THE .

ASSASSINATION OF ORLANDO LETELIER

• 8: INFARLY NOVEMBER 2976 RICARDO MORALES NAVARETTE,

À HIGH OPFICIAL OF THE CENEZUELAN DIRECTORATE POR THE SERVICES OP

INTCLLIGENCE AND PREVENTION (DISIPS, SAID THAT ORLANDO O O SCM

AVILAR CUBAN EXILE UNDER ARREST IN VENEZUELA FOR THE CUBANA AIRLINES

COMBING: HAD TOLD HIM THAT THE NOVO BROTHERS HAD DECN RISPONSIBLE POR

THE DOMMOING OF THE AUTOMOBILE OF ORLANDO LETIL IIR FORMER

1N94

00, 2013292

DO NUT 012108

NOPNODUCTION DY OTHER THAN THE INBUIRO OSPICE IN PAONDITIO

IMPORT

---

## Page 101

-UNIUVING MESSAGE

a68

SIGNAL CENTERUS

$01

ACE

4P8

OMF. 0

- 0

ELABBATON

SECRET

MESSAGE MANDATES IDICATES

STAFF

CONT:

• 0

D

2

отош

DIRECTOR

1800 в

DISSEM BY:

INFO:

FILE

D

944136

mere o PER

CHILEAN AMBASSADOR TO THE UNITED STATÉS. MORALES DID NOT AMPLIFY HIS:

INFORMATION•

CONTENT: ACCORDING TO A NUMBER OR PRESS

ARTICLES, IGNACIO 'NiO V O AND GUILLERÃO BON O VO HAVE BEEN

CHARGED BY SEVERAL OF THEIR COMPATRIOTS IN VENEZUELA. AS BEING

RESPONSIDLE FOR THE ASSASSINATION OF-ORLANDO LETELIER. IT IS

BELIEVED THAT YOUR BUREAU HAS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ON THE NOVO

BROTHERS• IGNACIO AND GUILLERMO.&

COMMENTS

SINCE HIS

ARREST ON 35 OCTOBER BOSCH MAD ADMITTED TO AN ORFICIAL OF DISIP THAT

HE: HAD CONTACT WITH THE NOVO BROTHERS; IN MIAMI SHORTLY SEPORE

METELIER'S ASSASSINATION.)

' CLASSIPIES BY RECORDE REPORTING PFICER ReSS-201

BASED ONE

lIN 1003381

UKSCARLET WORS CAN L 29-43

Sl NOVEMBIR $976

LAISE/CH

847%

1. Hee1000

PELCCOORDS

GEARBA

CALA/PNG

SINT-YLSA

C/LARR

068188#

ROPRODUCTION DY OTHER THAN THA IRGUNO OPPiJA I0 PROMOTIA

#99:808

strogad. S

1311919-

---

## Page 102

sito

DISPATCH

Chief, Latin America Division

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

StEUKE SIORALE

PRO-ASSIAN

INDEEING RIQUISTED

NO 1001RING

APERTURE CARU REQUESTIO

BO

FROM

schief of Station,

SUBH

RYBAT

KMSTONE WWNOCK

Past Contactswith

or lando

Bosch ad

WKSCARIEN

ACTION REQUIRED • MLFERINCES

WARNING NOTICE-SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES & METHODS. INVOLVED

We understand from press accounts that Orlando Bosch,

WKSCARLET-3 and several other Cuban exiles were recently arrested

and charged with the sabotage of a Cubana Airlines airliner on

6. October.

After having read these accoun..sl

reported, for the record. that he once knew Bosch and WKSCARLET-3

In the early 1960'g.

]met WKSCARLET-3 In. 1964 when both

were enrolled In OCS at Fort Benning, Georgia.

at that

time had already terminated his relationship with BiHERALD.

While at ocs l

was not particularly close to WKSCARLET-3

but WRSCARLET-3 was generally knowledgeable of

_I back

ground and past BiHERALD activities.

has not seer

WKSCARLET- since 1964 after completion of the OCS course and

doubts seriously that WKSCARLET-J would remember him.

met Bosch circa 1963 in Miams whenl

training Bosch In A BKHERALD-sponsored program.

Bosch only knew

Thas not seen Bosch since completion

o1 this training.

of closeness to either WKSCARLETS OF BOSCh,

notivities presente any

seourity problem today.

course, was unwitting of their alleged current activities and

was nurprined to hear of the bombing of the Cubana airliner.

Dintrsbutson:

JC/LAD

32 XMPDET

91-0173778

NJ i

• 4.

RECORD COPY

WARN IMOG: AND I

B201-299292

10 Novi

076

901-24% 9% 20:

DO NOT DESTROY

---

## Page 103

SECRET

09/026-85881

15 NOV 1976

MEMORANDUM FOR:

Deputy Director of Central Intelligence

FROM

VIA

SUBJECT®

Chief, Latin America Division

Deputy Director for Operations

Alleged Chilean Plot to Use Cuban Exiles to

Kil1

Andres PASCAL Allende, Nephew of Former

Chilean President Salvador ALLENDE

1.

The Nashington Post carried an article on 12 November

1976 claiming that a Venezuelan Secret Polico Officer, Ricardo

MORALES, had told FBI contacts that carly last year Chile's

Secret Police (DINA) sought to assassinate Andres PASCAL Alendel

and his companion Anne Marie Brussier:

The Information contained:

in the article for the most part coincides with information in

our files.

2.

A source of

reported on 17 February

1976 that anti-Cuban govornment oxilos were planning

to kil1

PASCAL Allende who was in oxile. In. Conta Rica at the time.

Thig

sourco also reported thit the Cuban oxilos claimed to be working

undor the sponsorshin of the Chiloan Govornment and that tho

attomnt anainst PASCAL Allondo would bo carrlod out hy tho Cuban.

in roturn for unspociflod ald to be givon cortain Cuban oxlle

• loadore, Including Orlando Boschl and lank castro.

Those

Individuals reportedly would onginoor the us aimination.

This

information was passod to the FBl and tha bopurtmone of Stato.

On 1? Februnry l

notifled the local

authorition

that noscl mlalt bo on nia way to a control Amorican

counery and

• Chlloon pursport,

Countre the be to too olate or me come nelso of

1n ponalble involvemont wieh bomblmon In Conch Klee nud ilau

SONINO DU THE THUN CANOELOR ALL OU

Hecretiory of sente Houry

alouinger.

On 10 lobruary 80s61 was approhondodl.

On 20 Tobruary |

rolnod with the

local

nuthorleton the mpoettle thront armine PAscAl Allomo.

Thoro authortlen mentod thoe choy hid aroudy ndotned PASCAl

nalonde of the pormblo throne onalone him lico. BoscH wan

doporcod on 30 March 1070.

WARMINA NOTICE.

SECHET

* TNUDIT

L AY O1A0G

---

## Page 104

SECHET

SUBJECT:

Alleged Chilcan Plot to Use Cuban Exiles. to

Kill Andres PASCAL Allende, Nephew of Former

Chilean President Salvador ALLENDE

CONCUR:

Deputy Director for Operations

15 NOV 1976

Date

SECRET

---

## Page 105

SECHER

SUBJECT:

Alleged Chilcan Plot to Use Cuban Exiles to

Kill Andres PASCAL Allende, Nephew of Former

Chilean President Salvador ALLENDE

DDO/DC/LA/SB:

Distribution:

Orig &1

1

(12 November 1976)

1

DDCI

DCI

Ex Rog

DDO

ADDO

C/LA

LA/SB

201-931810

(PASCAL):

201-299292 (BOSCH)

• Memo Chrono

SECRET

---

## Page 106

P.

TOTAL COPES 27-LEU

SECRET

HEPRODUCTON ON OTHER THAN

ISSUING OFFICE IS PNOMIAITED

STAFF

ADVANCE COPY POSUR DISLOTTED

ACTION

CLAS

ACTION A

T 381485

forsiTa4.

E{A259

PAGE 01-01

TOR:15165Z& NOV 76

IN 100338

38432

SECRET 1516427 NOV 76 STAFF

CITEL

_132432 ICARROLL ACTINGS

TO: DIRECTOR.

MNINTEL RYBAT FUDWELL

REFS!

A .

31388

(096295)

.8,

31234 (080249)

S' WISCARLET-S REPORTED 10 NVEMBER 19T6 ME HAD BEEN

TOLD BY RICARDO MORAL ES NAVARETTE (201-0285923)

ON UNSPECIFIED DATE THAT ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA HAD TOLD

MORALES THE FNUD NOVO BROTHERS HAD DONE THE BOMBING OF

ORLANDO LE TELL I ER AUTOMOBILE IN HASHINGTON, DOG.

MORALES DID NCT AMPLIFY ON THIS INFOMATION WHICH MAY

ALSO BE THE DASIS OF REFERENCE A INFO.

PI6I1 200-12-200111 201-0

01110•

B2.

Suee aris 15028.76

Reach ad alted to an

Trist of Were. Distrate fisher

Sarren of su

201-Busch

---

## Page 107

Exis

Borant ta

mine

onF

D

0

34-3

•SECRET

1111115€ 110012NS MENCATES

Ste-Tune 800,

STAFF

1300562

DIRECTOR

COMP: LA8

INFO: FILE

LIAN, 554, PS/ E62

0003'

Besia, 000100 014, 5515001

0

D

943114

DISSEM BYiGY

PER.

TO: PRIORITY

UNINTEL Y

J. ON LE NOVEMBER 1976 THE "WASHINGTON POSTY PUBLISHED AN

ARTICLE BY JOE

,CRANKSHAW IN MIAMI WHICH REPORTED THAT FBI HAD BEEN

TOLD OF A DINA PLOT TO USE CUBAN EXILES TO KILL LUIS ANDRES

PASCAL ALLENDE AND ANNE MARIE BRUS SIER SIC - SHOULD

BE BEAUSIRES. FOLLOWING ARE EXCERPTS FROM ARTICLE: Y

A. RICARDO MORALES, VENEZUELAN INTEL OFFICIAL

REPORTED TO FBI THAT HE HAD BEEN TOLD OF. A PLOT TO KILL PASCAL AND

BRUSSIER BY ROLANDO OTER O. ACCORDING TO OTERO, HE WENT TO

SANTIAGO IN EARLY FEBRUARY AND IDENTIFIED HIMSELF TO DINA OFFICIALS

AS A FUGITIVE FROM THE U.S. AT DINA HAS, OTERO SAID HE WAS TOLD

THAI THE SECRET POLICE SUPPORT THE CUBAN EXILES' CAUSE AND WOULD

PROVIDE FUNDS AND ARMS FOR THEM IN RETURN POR A SPAVOR:" THE FAVOR

WAS TO KILL PASCAL AND BRUSSIER IN COSTA RICA BEFORE. BE FEBRUARY

3978• OTERO QUOTES DINA SPOKESMEN AS SAYING BOSCH WOULD BE BACKUP

IP OTERO UPAILED IN THE MISSION• ACCORDING TO OTERO, HE REFUSED TO

DO THE "PAVOR, " LEFT CHILE AND TOLD MORALES• ME THEN RETURNED TO:

0.100

W9r90

ONPAODVCTION NY OTAIN THAN THE IDAVINO OPPICE I8 PROMONTO

CROSS VILE

COPT TOR

803-241224

DO NOT DIATROY

CL

---

## Page 108

14-00000

OUTGOIN

MESSAGE

OAF 0

GATHER

SECRET

2

D

CONF:

INFO: FILE

DISSEN BY:

PER

943114

harret te

SANTIAGO AND WAS ARRESTED TUO WEEKS LATER. Y

•B. BOSCH WAS ARRESTED ON I9 FEBRUARY ENTERING COSTA RICA

WITH A FALSE PASSPORT AND CHARGED WITH PLOTTING TO KILL SECRETARY

OF STATE HENRY KISSINGER, PASCAL AND BRUSSIER. NO TRIAL WAS HELD:

AND BOSCH WAS LATER DEPORTED. HE RETURNED TO SANTIAGO AND

APPARENTLY REMAINED THERE UNTIL GOING TO CARIBBEAN TO ORGANIZE CORU. Y

C. INFO ON THIS ALLEGED DINA-CUBAN EXILE CONSPIRACY WAS

SUPPRESSED DURING THE SEPTEMBER 76 FEDERAL BOMBING TRIAL. OF OTERO.

IN JACKSONVILLE. WHEN OTERO STARTÉD TO TESTIFY ABOUT HIS ACTIVITIES

IN CHILE, GOVT PROSECUTORS OBJECTED THAT INFO WAS IMMATERIAL TO

BOMBING CHARGES• OTERO WAS FOUND INNOCENT: HIS TRIAL ON RELATED

STATE CHARGES HAS TO BEGIN IN MIAMI ON MONDAY 8 NOVS BUT WAS

ORDERED POSTPONED UNTIL EARLY 147?: Y

DO OTERO HAD LIVED IN IN PLORIDA UNTIL LATE DECENBER: 1975

WHEN ME MAS TOLD AY PEI INPORMANT THAT FBI EAS PREPARING TO HAVE HIM

INDICTED: ON BOMBING CHARGES.

OTERO THEN WENT TO DOMINICAN REPUBLIC

WHERE HE WAS ARRESTED AND PAROLED. WHEN MIAMI FEDERAL GRAND JURY

RETURNED INDICTMENTS AGAINST OTERO, ME PLEW TO CARACAS WHERE STAYED

DATE:

0110.

REPNODUCTION MY OTHER THAN THE MAUIMO OPTICH ID PRIMMINO

IMPOST

---

## Page 109

14-00000

WINNING MESSAGE

BIONAL CRATER!

ces

mome

orF. -2 .

0

LАВШВAF

•SECRET

15358048

STAFF

CONF:

0

0

DIRECTOR

DISSEM OY.

INFO: FILE

D

943114

PER

WITH MORALES. INFO IN REPORTS ALLEGES THAT OTERO WAS TOLD THAT IF

VENEZUELAN AUTHORITIES MOVED TO ARREST HIM, HE COULD RECEIVE ASYLUM

WITH NEW CHILEAN AMBASSADOR: WHILE IN CARAÇAS, OTERO ALLEGEDLY

TOLD MORALES THAT HE HAD COMMITTED THE BOMBINGS IN MIAMI AND

MORALES PASSED THIS INFO TO FBI Y

2• MUCH OF INFO ON PLOT TO KILL PASCAL AND BRUSSIER APPARENTLY

TAKEN FROM

125 FEBRUARY 1976 FBI REPORT WHICH COULD COME FROM MORALES.

MORALES WAS SOURCE OF NUMEROUS: SÉCRET SERVICE REPORTS DURING

KISSINGER VISIT TO CARACAS IN FEBRUARY 7L ON REPORTED ATTEMPT BY

BOSCH TO KILL KISSINGER..: ONE SECRET SERVICE REPORT INDICATED THAT

MORALES HAD PROVIDED CARACAS LEGAL ATTACHE WITH RELIABLE INFORMATION

IN THE PAST. Y

ON FILE 801-2948449 201-249292. EE IMPDET-

UNITI

WAT I

I NOVEMBEN

LA/SB/CH/B

1499

1974

LAEARCGIUES

C/LA/MCA

00000nA то

PIPROBUETION BY OTHER THAN THE TABUNE OPPIER I8 PROMIRITED

IMPDIT:

194022

---

## Page 110

14-00000

OUTGOING MESSAGE-

700

OMF

D

GANDALAI

SECRET

MISBABA MOUTA MOSCATOR

STAFF

CON: 1e

D

INFO: FILE

MATE -THE BHOW

122140Z

0

DIRECTOR

13 /

0

mDt®

942799

DISSEM BY:

PER

TO: PRIORITYL

UNINTEL Y

REFS: A.

CüC 27841

9992, T3 OCTOBER 1976

B. DIRECTOR 929297

C. DIRECTOR 942265 Y

Jo IN VIEW OF LE NOVEMBER 1976 ARTICLE IN "WASHINGTON POST™

BEING RELAYED

I DEALING WITH ALLEGGED DINA PLOT TO KILL

PASCAL ALLENDE, WOULD APPRECIATE ANY INFO ON DINA-CUBAN EXILE

CONTAÉTS, ESPECIALLY THOSE RELATED TO REFS A AND C. Y.

2. FILE: 15-5-1 203-2992921 201-284613 EZ IMPDET-N

LA COMMENTE

ALLEGED ANTI-CASTRO CUBAN EXILE CONTACTS IN

CHILEAN GOVT•

REQUEST FOR INFO ON REF A.

EXTRACT FROM FBI REPORT OF 4 NOV 7 ON VISIT

IN CARLY 7S TO CHILE BY CUBAN EXILE AND HIS

CONTACT WITH "PATRIA Y LIBERTAD."

DATE I

WNITI

UNTe

JA NOV Th

LA/SO/CH/R

Ih1i7%

MAPRODUGTION BY OTHER THAN THE

IBOUINO OPPICE 10 PROHIMITSO

BROON THEM COVY FOR

19•222424

12100 25990091

CLASH

Maare appeal

IMPORT

L

---

## Page 111

14-00000

THE TACHINGTOS POST FirEB

FBI Told of Chilean Plot to Use Cubans to Kill Allende K

Aj Jue Crankshaw

• The S01eRt 18-281e

1111111-- The Chilean srired police

retrairy

attempled to recruit

Pon aliereil Cuban exic terroristy to

is-arsirate the nephor of Chile's late

Ingrant Marrint President Salvador

iride, a ranking South American

m-licene nitreial told U.S. authori

1:8a.

The Isrelligence official, Prardo

Musales of the lonezurlan secret po-

Heglind fIll comtacts that Chile's se

cert police (0t.%.d) sousht the assassi.

natin of hoth Incres lascal Allende

and his 4050a1107, Anne Marle Brus-

to

documents

mode

aradishie to The Siom! Herald.

Morales, himself a Cuhan exile, said

19e 1010.a plot, which was never car.

eter out. was reported to him by Ro.

santo 9190586, sita cloth. illy fares trial

in Miami on 10 felony charges reiated

Eo 18 1etd1sl bombings here.

tsu-parianis of Chilean secret police

imedsomes in plots againi? polltical

exile hase been widely expressed ln

enn, a diriles. This was the firse rei

panderal lesslanie of an

aliezation

to

ino fill by a hich ranking intelligence

vitial nungrating complicity of the

Chilean Intelligence service in pollt.

Bosch was arrested entering Costa

leal assassination activities.

Morales

Rica with a false passport on Feb. 19.

had himself been associated with the

He was charged with plotting to kill

Central Intelligence Ageney and FBI

V.S. Secretary of State Henry A Kis

as an operative and informant alter

singer;

Andres

Pascal Allende

and

flecing Cuba

following

Castro's

Anne Marie Brussier.

cession to power.l

No trial was held and Boseit was

sit.

At the time of Morales' report to

later deported. He returned to Santt

the FBI, Otero was a fugifive from a

ago. and

apparently

remained there

Miamt federal grand Jury indictment

until going to the Caribbean area to

related to the bombings. He was sub

organize CORU, a militant anti-Castro

sequently

acquitted

of that charge

group which

claimed credit for. the

earlier this year at a federal trial in

Cuban airliner bombing last month.

Jacksonville.

Morales

quoted Otero as saying

Morales made the reports to the FBI

DIX': had attempted to recruit both

in an exchange of intelligence with

U.S. officials: about exiled terrorists"

Otero and Orlando Bosch for the as

sassination.

Bosch was charged

plots.

Venezuela last weck with first-degree

•An FSl spokesman in Washington

murder in the sabolage of a Cuban

said. Monday the bureau would have

airliner that claimed 73 lives.

no comment on the reported DINA

Morales quoted Olero as saying

ploL (FBI officials in Caracas had no

DINA offered arms and funds lo Cu

comment on the case in response to

ban exile groups.

Independent inquiries

by The Wash-

Otero refused to do the "favor," left

Ington Post.]

Chile and told the Latin American in-

Information on alleged DIN.! Cu-

telligence official on Feb. 15, then re

ban exile conspiracy against the gur-

turned to Santiago. He was arrested

viving Allende family and government

two weeks later and held until he was. membery was

suppressed during they

handed •)ver to the United States in

lederal

bombing trial of Otero Aa

May.

Jacksonville in September, 11.

When Otero started to testify abe

his activities in Chile. ronne

rosecutors objected that the baron

on was immaterial to the lion!

charges.

Otero was fourd innocent at federa

charges that be placed boints at Mi

the been

Deero had SS0 in is pocket inhen la

I DEE

wirters

• Me

was tail the men

eirted the Cahai excile

mind provide fund for

ned

wah die t

I Allende

jees.

ade State Attorness Dike m

fari Police Departenent Elea

- ters on Dec 34

- Ftis trial on related state charges

te

begin here

Monday

eclares can

dered postponed until sher the ber

ning of the sear and transferred

Pensacola

Otero remained in Florida until late

December. 197à. when he was taid 1

an FBI Informant that the FB

preparing to have him indicted on tl

fis

bombing charges

Reput we went to the Deed i

Castro, an Otero friend

When a Miami

:.

---

## Page 112

TO

INDER WILL CHECK CI

UNCLASSIFIED

SIFACATION TOP AND BOTTOM

CONFIDESTRAL

OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP

NAME AND ADDRE

DATE

ACLLALSB/CH.

DE/LASTS

SECHET

INITIALI

Gi

2104 14т

IP D&P

L A/SP/CH

ACTION

APPROVAL

COMMENT

CONCURRENCI

GA - 58

3 EOS

DIALET HEPLY

DISPATCH

ALE

INFORMATION

«marita

PAoTo of Boser

PREPARE

REPLY

RECOLE MERIDATION

RETURN

SIC NATURE

EM_

3мов

1471

•1 Oct

DRE :H RT

13" 237

Uno previens

L

---

## Page 113

14-00000

SECRIT

TRANSMITTAL MANIFEST

FROM

cos.

DATE

Chief, LA Division.

CAUTION - Biant form requtes

secue storage in held.

• Caraves 1076

Nº 148959

атам на

REMAINS

Envelope concalaine chore os

Orlando BOSCH Arila

Reti

35330

і Дном т7

---

## Page 114

14-00000

10. 968

006.

• QUF

0

• STAFF

1220312.

CoMe: LA 8 IPO: PILE IPAN,

emme

DIRECTOR

повіто - тасисв тА

94111)

DISSEN BY: 4/

PEN

. 0

PULS

TO:.

UNINTEL KMSTONE Y

REF:

32? IIN D69I011Y

J.. FOR STATION INFORMATION, FOLLOWING IS SUMMARY OF 201 FILE ON EME

HILDO. FOLGAR MONTERO (202-0290306) REPORTED IN REF TO HAVE

HOSTED FUND-RAISING DINNER FOR ORLANDO BOS CH. Y

2• FOLGAR WAS BORN IN SANTIAGO DE CUBA 29 MAY 1920. DESCRIBED

BY WODISH SOURCE NOVEMBER 59. AS EXCELLENT BUT UNETHICAL SURGEON

GYNECOLOGIST OPERATING LARGE AND LUCRATIVE ABORTION MILL IN HAVANA.

MAD BEEN EARLY AND ARDENT CASTRO SUPPORTERS CONTRIBUTING MONEY AND

SETTING UP SYSTEM OF ARMS PROCUREMENT, BUT TOLD SOURCE NOVEMBER 59 HE

COMPLETELY DISILLUSIONED AND WILLING DO ALMOST ANYTHING TO ASSIST IN

CASTRO'S OVERTHROW. IN TWO MEETINGS WITH À UMUAVE OFFICER ARRANGED

BY WODISH CONTACTS IN DECEMDER LO, POMIGAR SAID ME WAS A PORMER

RANKING OFFICIAL OF ORTHODOX SCUBAN COMMUNISTE PARTY, THAT HE VAS.

CURRENTLY WORKING CLANDESTINGLY AGAINST CASTRO REGIME: BUT THAT ME

STILL MAD CLOSE CENTACT WITH CASTRO AND OTHER HIGH REGINE OFFICIALS

AND ABLE PROVIDE INTELI ALSO CLAIMED HE CLOSE PRIEND OF PRESIDENT

DATEI

@n01

GROOK TILE COY: 104

801-2999.2

NEGRET

NSPRODUATION NY OYARA THAN THO ISOUINO OFFIGO ID PROMOTIO

CL DYI

IMPOST

---

## Page 115

• OAF

0

₴

• STAFF

DIRECTOR

mmas

NEW BY:

BUFO: FILE

941918

BETANCOURT AND HAD SHELTERED LATTER IN HIS HOME 48-SZ. FILE REFLECTS

NO FURTHER BKHERALD CONTACT WITH SUBJECT, APPARENTLY BECAUSE

HIS

• CLAIAS RE PARTICIPATION IN EXFILTRATIONS AND OTHER ANTI-REGIME

ACTIVITIES HUERE FOUND TO BE EXAGGERATHED AND ME CONSIDERED POSSIOLE

PROVOCATEUR • y

3. FOLGAR LEFT CUBA FOR MIAMI 2L. SEPTEMBER bI BUT MAS DENIES

ENTRY TO U-S. AND AFTER WEEK'S DETENTION BY INS PROCEEDED TO VENE=:

ZUELA. DURING POLGAR'S SUBSEQUENT EFFORTS TO GAIN ADMISSION TO U.S.I

• PRESIDENT BETANCOURT PERSONALLY VOLICHED FOR HIM, STATING HE HAS LONG-

PIME PERSONAL FRIEND AND. PHYSICIAN WHO HAD ONCE SAVED BETANCOURT'S

LIFE• AMONG THOSE WHO WROTE LETTERS IN SUPPORT OF FOLGAR WAS DR.

MANUEL ANTONIO DE VARONA OF THE CUBAN REVOLUTIONARY COUNCIL IN MIAMI.

MAC-303?, 15 OCTOBER 64. REPORTED THAT FOLGAR HAD HANDLED MOSY SP THE

APPOINTRENTS POR DELEGATES OF CUBAM REPRESENTATION IN EXILE (RECES!

WHO VISITED VENEZUELA DURING TOUR OF LATIN AMERICA. OFFICIALS ÜMOM

RECE DELEGATES MET INCLUDED POREIGN MINISTER IGMACIO IRRIDAREN

DORGEST INTERIOR MINISTER GONZALO BAR NI O SI PRESIDENTIAL

SECRETARY MANUEL MAN PILL AS AND AD CONGRESSIONAL GLADER CARLOS

DATI

BaT,

ANPEOOUCTION NY OYMEN VIA I THE USE UNE 9991FE IS AROMARE

IMPDET

L

---

## Page 116

BIBARL CRATER US 1T

3

3

0

GLADIATE

SER ARE ACTOR

• STAFF

COMF:

DIRECTOR

DISSEM BY: -

BAF®: FILE

941917

PER

ANDRES PERE Z, RECE REPORTEDLY WAS PLANNING TO NAME A COMMITTE::

HOF FOUR CUBANS AND ONE VENEZUELAN TO REPRESENT IT IN VENEZUELA.

AND FOLGAR WAS MENTIONED AS A PROBABLE MEMBER. Y.

N. FILE: 201-02903060 201-0299292 EZ IMPDET•

REF - REPORT ON ORLANDO BOSCH'S ACTIVITIES IN VENEZUELA, LATE

SEPTEMBER - EARLY OCTOBER 1976:

BATE 0:

" NOV 7k

@n01

40rF1

LATI

LA/PNCA

10a01796

MIPNODUSTION OY OTHER THAN THE INUING OSPICE i PRONISITUD

N0 98T

BEGRET

---

## Page 117

14-00000

OUTGOING MESSAGE

3 ef

BANNEAL CRATEN UNE GALI

$04

T0O

D

D

0

0309

OMF.

SE CRET

Tanda

102557Z

IA/DD

140952

DISSEN

Ото PER

TO: FEDERAL DURLAU OF INVESTIGATION/GATTN: R-K: MCHARGUE/GENERAL

INVESTIGATIVE DIVISION• V.

SECRET-WARNING NOTICE-SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS

INVOLVED--NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN NATIONALS-NOT RELEASABLE TO

CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACTOR/ CONSULTANTS V.

SUBJECT O UNSUBSTANTIATED ALLEGATION THAT ORLANDO BOSCH INVOLVED IN

PLOT Te OVERTURON THE COSTA RICAN GOVERNMENT IN MUNE-NULY 117k4

DO IN CARLY MAY 1476 A GROUP OP COSTA RICAN PLOTTERS MADE. AN

18'

AGREEMENT THAT A QUANTITY OF SOVIET AND CRECH WEADONS CAPTURED BY

¿THE CHILIAN GOVERNMENT WOULD DE SENT TO COSTA RICA VIA GUATEMALA POR

VEC IN OVERTHROWING THE CURRENT COSTA RICAN GOVERNHENT. THE HEAPONS

0-19-9-15

110Ra0.76

9013799892

00000090

REPRODUATION DY OYUGR THAN THO INOUINO OFFICA IN PROMISITEO

IMPDET

030988

---

## Page 118

Ja ALIGN MISE LEIICH IN 1MIS HOA.

OUTGOING MESSAGE

SIGNAL CHATEN USE ONLY

900

0

0

Face

OMF : 0

0

SECRET

CIA/DDO

993а ANDER

COMP:

MPO: PILI

DISSEN BYE

440157

N07 7w

PI®

ARE SAID TO/CONSIST RIPLES AND SUBMACHINE GUNS- AS GELL AS' SOME

THREE MILLION ROUNDS OF AMMUNITIONI FOR A FORCE OF APPROXIMATELY

300 MEN. THE CONTRACTING PARTYIN CHILE, PRESUMED TO BE THE GOVERN

MENT OR THE MILITARY, HAS AGREED TO SEND TWO MEN TO COSTA RICA TO

ASSIST IN THE PREPARATIONS• HOWEVER, THE WEAPONS HAD NOT LEFT CHILE

AS OF EARLY MAY Y

SO ON 7 JULY 1ITA THE LOCAL PRESS IN SAN JOSE COSTA RICA•

AND GUATEMALA CITY CARRIED STATEMENTS BY GONZALO P. A C I DO COSTA

RICAN FOREIGN MINISTER• THAT THERE WAS A GROUP OF PROMINENT PEOPLE.

WHO WERE COMPROMISED IN A PLOT TO OVERTHROW THE GOVERNMENT OF COSTA

RICA• FACIO INDICATED THAT ORLANDO D O SC HO WHO HAD BEEN

¡TRAVELEING OCTUCEN GUATEMALA AND COSTA RICA ON PALSE PASSPORTS, WAS

IN CHARGE OF THE OPERATION.

WHILE IN GUATEMALA TO TELL THE GUATEMALAN. GOVERNMINT ABOUT THE

PLOTO PACIO MAS ASKED ABOUT HECTOR DAD

ANN: 00 A CHILEAN WHO MAD

/INTERED COSTA RICA ON CHILLAN PASSPORT NUMOCA INSUN• PACIO CLAIMED

ВАТИ!

@00

MOTO

REPRODUE ON DY O9MBA THAN THE LOQUID OI PICE O PR..

DOnN

IMPOET

---

## Page 119

sit one covine.

OUTGOING -MESSAGE

MICHAE CANTAN UIR ONLY

TEND

OMF

#ABBIEATION

SECRET

0

CLADDO

CONF:

10F0, ML

DISSEN BY:

0

940952

TO HAVE INFORMATION THAT DABANSO HAD RECENTLY TRAVELED TO GUATEMALA

SEVERAL TIMES FROM COSTA RICA AND THE COSTA RICAN GOVERNMENT

SUSPECTED THAT DABANSO WAS INVOLVED IN THE PLOT. IN MID-TEBRUARY

JOOSCH WAS TRAVELING

UNDER THE NAME HECTOR E• D'AVANZO CINTOLESI • USING CHILEAN PASSPORT

NUMBER 2658309 V

6010797892

ROPROGUETION DY OTNER THAN THE INBUINO OPPICE 18 PHONSI

IMPORT

CL OV 010958

syra

DO THE REPORT THAT MOSCH NAS INVOLVED IN THE PLOT WAS A

PABRICATION MY DANIEL O DU DIR QUIROS, PRESIDIN GE COSTA RICA. Y

CLASSIPIED BY RECORDED REPORTING OPFICER. XEDS-ON

DAFEN

UTTA

---

## Page 120

14-00000

OUTGOING MESSAGE

MORAL CENTER UBI ONLY

700

D

OMF

D

SECRET

B8AIAUE MANLINS MERCATON

CONF:

1NNO: PILE

CIA/DDO

940952

DISSEN #Y!

0

+0 003.

wa r.

BASED ON:

PARA 18

HURUM {HUFANG-1}

THAS COMMENT PARA 3:

B3 JULY 1976- ESLOGIC-2

LE FEBRUARY 1476- HUPABRIC-14

29627372282064

139237 IN 830647|

PARA 48

PI IN IM

IDEN OF SOURCE PROVIDED BY

FORMER COS

oRneR COs1476 - NP SHUGA YS"

AT HOS

0Bdt d

00.30

vô/7 cact S02506, ko563 C9c caPReCho8ap BY79.

aww.re.queipat.0c

103.

MeritA

N 6G:

riet y

19X9

aya t?. dex

Si F.

HẢ Ở& MON

P WeK LeSc sOSn

t ip.

FLUIET

TMPDLT

CI DYr 016980

---

## Page 121

OUTGOING MESSAGE

650%

BEMAL CEMIERUBSONLY

€64

Açes

OMF 0

D

CAAOSHIATIN

SECRET

BOEBSAGA MANCLO ТРИАТОН

• STAFF

CONF:

LA's

INFO:

chee

DATA, PHAE SHOUT

201'5562

DIRECTOR

TIE

• D

940950

mOEa

оно 2001 в

naTuna to

TO:

UNINTEL RYBAT FUDWELL Y

REFS!

A .

35352 |IN 0826091

20051 IN 08279314

INFORMATION IN REF A WAS REPORTED IN EARLIER TRAFFIC FROM

HAS PROCESSING

FIRCI TO FBI BASED ON EARLIER REPORTING, WHICH WILL DE RELAYED TO

ADDRESSEES POR INPO. ".

I. VILE! 200-12 200/1- 201-10299272. CE IMPDET-A

LA COMMENTI

A.:

DOCUMENT ON CONVERSATION IN JULY 1976 BETWEEN

CHILEAN AMBASSADOR TO COSTA RICA AND COSTA RICAN

DOGGN MINISTER. OR PLOT. LED BY:ORLANDO: BOSCH

»M WAS BEING ORGANIZED IN GUATEMALA TO OVERTHROL

THE COSTA RICAN GOVERNMENT:

CLARIFICATION ROiC OF BOSCH

#06a090 O07re®

NEPROOUOTICN NY OTARA THAN THE INNUING COPICA IS PROMETEO

IRCHET

IMPOET

CL BY 034908

---

## Page 122

100

30040

Bee

0MF

0

0

0

. 0

- 1:

19 2.

SEEPST

STAFF

CONF:

%18

TO:

eres

1002002

DIRECTOR

INFO:

FILE LIPPiN AGE/DOO, 0003

000/60,

185/662

940757

DO M084

netados to

PEr.

D

WNINTEL RYBAT FUDWELL. Y

REFS:

35330 lIN 0777991 NOT SENT MOR NEEDED

B.

35408 lIN 090372| SNOT SENT OR NEEDED

C. DIRECTOR 9311L9Y

J• REGRET. DELAY IN REPLY TO REFS A AND B BUT HAS HAS BEEN.

AWAITING CLARIFICATION ON WHETHER

OR NOT ORLANDO BO SCH IS "U.S.

PERSON.* BASED ON INS INFO, BOSCH IS NOT REPEAT NOT. "U.S. PERSON,

THEREFORE COLLECTION EFFORT AGAINST HIM, INCLUDING FUPRONG-S

INVESTIGATION OF HIS CONTACTS AND ACTIVITIES IN CHILE, IS IN ACCORD

WITH REF C• Y

&• RE PARA 4A REF A, FOLLOWING IS PHYSICAL DESCRIPTION AND

KNOWN ALIASES FOR ORLANDO BOSCH. PHOTO BEING POUCH IL NOV. Y

A•. ORLANDO BOSCH AVILAI POB LA AUG 2L0 SANTA CLARI,

LAS VILLAS PROVINCE, CUBA, HEIGHT S' IC", WEIGHT 170 LBS. MEDIUM

DUILD. HAIRS BLACK, SOME GRAY SIDES. EYESI DROWN, USUALLY WEARS

BLACK HORN-RIMMED GLASSES. COMPLEXIONI DARK. SCARS AND MARIS!.

BIRTHMARK ON CHIN• PECULIARITIESI THICK LIPS, SOMETIMES WEARS

•NeI

" NOVEMOCR LIPL

т0 000000

CROUD TILE":

808-42 19.29.2

DO MUE ME

•PRODUCTION OY OTHEN THAN THE VIBUINO OPRICE IA PHONIBITRO

G6 BY A997

---

## Page 123

Arse

ONF

(1+08--894949

UUIGUING MESSAGE

BIGNAR CENTPANSEO

cor

0

0

0

D

89500

10.0089 4 470,4

le olo 81280349485

#а¢#

0

DIRECTOR

94/0767

m9281298

DISSiM 0%:

STAFF

CONF:

INFO:

FILE

0

0

AD98

8 3 179#8

DATURATO ' PER

MUSTACHE. WIFE: MIRIAM-BOSCH, M.D. HAS FIVE CHILIRES:

B. ALIASES: PEDRO ANTONIO PENA -DOMINICAN PASSPORT:

•

HECTOR E• D'AVANZO CINTOLESI, CHILEAN PASSPORT: LUIS

PANI AGU A MENDEZ, MUPUCOSTA RICAN PASSPORT: AKA "BOCA DE ROSA"

EDUE TO

BIRTHMARK ON LOWER LIP AND CHINI, "PIRO" BOSCH, "ERNESTO", "•

3.

STATION HAS REQUESTED TRAVEL DATA CN

RO

FEEM SUBJECT'S

ORLANDO BOSCH WHICH MAY DE AVAILABLE

HOS ILSO INTERESTED MITHIS INFO. PLS ADVISE IF INFO CAN

PASSPORTS•

BE OBTAINED. Y

4. FILE: 200-12-200/20 201-861216 EE IMPDET•A

18744

0010 06:00 100000

0Ь00@1009 011110

8000 A N 40: 101608.

ANPMOOUCTION MY OTHER THAN TUE OPINO PFICO LINONINITOO

IMPEIT

---

## Page 124

sari onor

MAGE

•Ф)MF.. 0

D

SECRET

D

CONF: c/C/ 2

INFO: : FILE

130054Z

DiO3, SidDo,

943126

DISSEN BY:

D

PER. C/

=.7.-

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION//INTELLIGENCE DIVISION.Y

SECRET-WARNING NOTICE-SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS

NOT RELEASAULE TA CONTRACTORS OF. CONTRACTON CUNSULTANTSO;

INVOLVED- NOT RELEASABLE TO

FOREIGN NATIONALS-DISSEMINATION AND

EXTRACTION OF INFORMATION CONTROLLED BY ORIGINATOR Y

SUBJECT: STATEMENTS BY SALVADOR ALDEREGUIA

REGARDING

INDIVIDUALS ALLEGEDLY INVOLVED IN TERRORIST ACTIVITIES AGAINST CUBA Y

--INFORMATION ON SALVADOR ALDEREGUIA IS IN OUR COUNTERINTELLIGENCE

FILES BECAUSE OF HIS REPORTED CONTACTS WITH PANAMANIAN AND CUBAN ENEM

INTELLIGENCE OFFICERS Y

- JNPORMATION ON ALDO VERA IS IN OUR FILES BECAUSE HE IN WAS

INTERNADIONAR

SUSPECTED OF TERRORIST ACTIVITIES Y

ORLANDO

- INFORMATION ON QUAN BOS EM IS IN OUR FILES DECAUSE HE IS

A THE NATIONAT

SUSPECTED OF TERRORISY ACTIVITIES "

DATE I

@nu:

waIv

REPRODUCTION BY OTNER THAN THE LAGUINO OPPIER I PROMIBITED

CNOOS fILE COFY YON

801-249.Ir

DO MOE SEETHO

IMPDET

BECRET

---

## Page 125

ÜUIGUING MESSAGE

BIONAL CENTER USA

ACE

TOM

D

FAGE

2

OMF

#RASBIBICATION

SECRET

WEBSAG HANDLINS MINEATOR

SWER

CONF:

BATH-THE ENGLA

INFO: " FILE

CiA,

943176

0

RETURN TO

# FILES

DISSEM BY.

PER

#

2. ON 13ОСТОВ. 1976, SALVADOR ALDÈREGUIA SAID THAT THE

"COORDINATION OF UNITED REVOLUTIONARY ACTIONS" ECORUS HAD NOTHING TO

DO WITH THE SABOTAGE OF THE CUBAN AIRCRAFT IN BARBADOS: CORU,

ACCORDING TO ALDEREGUIA, OFFERED TO PARTICIPATE IN THE OPERATION BUT

THEIR OFFER WAS REJECTED. ALDEREGUIA SAID THAT THE PERSON RESPONSIBLE

FOR THE SABOTAGE OF THE AIRPLANE WAS ALDO VERA: SERAFIN WHO WAS

•OPERATING OUT OF PUERTO RICO: ALDEREGUIA ALSO ATTRIBUTED TO VERA THE

DISAPPEARANCE OF TWO CUBAN DIPLOMATS IN ARGENTINA. ALDEREGUIA SAID

THAT ORLANDO BOSCH WAS NOT LOCATED IN SANTO DOMINGO, BUT. THAT INSTEAD:

BOSCH WAS IN VENEZUELA. ALDEREGUIA SAID THAT HE HAD THE NAMES AND

ADDRESSES OF TWO PERSONS WITH WHOM BOSCH WAS IN CONTACT IN VENEZUELA.

ALDEREGUIA STATED THAT HE ALSO HAD THE ADDRESS AND TELEPHONE NUMBER &

OF A RESIDENCE BOSCH HAD ESTABLISHED IN NICARAGUA. Y

8. THIS AGENCY PROVIDED ADDITIONAL I NORMATION TO THE PEI ON

ALDEREGUIA VIA

RATED NO OCTOBER 3976 WITH SUBJECT TITLE

"ACTIVITIES OF UNITED STATES CITIZEN ON DEHALF OF THE PANAMANIAN

@100

UNITI

АКРОВСЬ NON DY ОТНЕР THAN THE ISOUNO OPPICR IВ/ ЛЕТКО

IMPDAT

---

## Page 126

1530

BIGHALEBATERUSI

. €04

ONLY

OMF

D

D

SOLA A BUTE A TIDN

SECRET

MASADA HAROUNG FROCCATON

DEA

. 9

made

3

CONF:

INFO: FILE

CiA

943126

D

D 0#

DISSEM BY:

PER

AND CUBAN SECURITY SERVICES. " W

4. PORTIONS OF THE ABOVE INFORMATION ARE BEING PROVIDED

SEPARATELY TO THE FBI AND TO THE STATE DEPARTHENT OPFICE OF

SECURITY AND BUREAU OF INTELLIGENCE AND RESEARCH VIA

5• CLASSIFIED BY RECORDED REPORTING OFFICER.

XGDS -2 •WA

MILI 56-8-136 56-2-931 201-2834471 0366341 01-2999

ACILA/COC

DC/LA/CAT

11163

PICS/TTI

AGCIDDO

C1/OG

CIAREA/O WAH. GODSON LIN DRAFTS

• BATE IS NOW

WAITI

uNTI

omators @0990809

HAPRODUGTICN DY OTMEN THAN THE INBUINO OPPICE IA PAONIQITED

RECRET

CL

M6844

L

---

## Page 127

ta-tended

DORICINDA PORA AÃ. 10

HEA 8073 80B01030

ORA PEMR 140 MA0 101:01.8

UNITED STATES CC RNMENT

Memorandum

CO 105.3-C

DATE: November 5, 1976'

PROM:

sUBJECT:

Your

Subject was granted indefinite voluntary departure

from the United States on January 16,

1973.

"When

le departed from the United States, he lost that

status.

He no longor has any legal immigration

status

in the United States.

Day U.S, Sewinge Bende Regularly en she Pipell Soulnge law

---

## Page 128

FBI CABLE

FROM DIRECTOR FBI;

DATE: 4 NOVEMBER: 1976

CLASSIFICATION! SECRET

BUBJECT! BOMAINO OF CUNA AIREINES DO 8 NEAT

BARBADOS, WEST INDIES, OCT. 6, 10%6

---

## Page 129

14-00000

.....

--.-

PERCEIA SIRIS MISTIBITI

TOTA re 35 7 2

SECRET

CARVING INIT

As THOM TOPHE

LAB

ArTioN a

AF

FILE

VA

LeAN, NE8, 0003

A50/0120, 093/1TG4, C/OPS,-

352499

E!'AQ46

C14,

PAGE 01

T0R12317932 NON 20

SECRET 0317222 NOV 96 STAFF

• CITE

31326

70:

CIRECTOR,

WNINTEL MHSPIKE KMSTONE

REFI

131255 CladÖ81810)

8.. PYl.

→ NEWSPAPERS MORVING S NOVEMBER 1976

REPORT FOLLOWING RESULTS è NOVEMBER JUDICIAL MEARING ON

INVESTIGATIN OF ÇUBANA ALÁCRAT BOMBINGI

A. JUDGE

URDERED CONTINUED DETENTION OF HERNAN

STAFF

GARRILES AND ORLANDO BO SCH AVILA.

DO MERMES ROJA S PEHALTA, QUETON OLEG

'DO DRIO US A DE LA SERRA THETIAGORE, MILLIAM

PIQUEREDO AND FRANCISCO NUNE & VALLRUO MEAF SEP PAGE

GO ALPARDO RAFAEL MARINI ( MASS 8 NIO, REARR AND CELSA

MARY

POLES O SEMAN NEGE ABSOLVED OR ANATIES DO PHA

IN 400993

31326

DOTAINERS MND VIOLATED ARTICLS dON AND 299 OF PUR CRIMINAL

CROSE FILE COPY FOR

801-128+22

DO HOT 10N0NOY

---

## Page 130

1l.

• are see cranes 10_

PER 1" CONNE MEDIAN ED..

_APHANCE GORY ISSUER/BLORICO

N

Pends rentes.

•SECRET

ASHOD STONE IS DEAN

STAFF

Ar. TIGN 7

1 352499

-9y320

PAGE 112-82

TORIEJ1Z4JZ NOV 74.

-IN P4090

31 326

CODE ANE WERE ALLEGEDLY GUILTY DE OUGUALISIED MOMICIDE"' AND

MANUFACTURE AND USE OF NEAPONS ER WAR, HOSGH ANE PRISADA

HERE ACCUSED AS AUTHORS OF THE ARMBING, ANSCH HAS ALSO

CHARGED WITH VIGLATLONR OF ARTICLES 326, S28 AN: 327/ 0F

CRIMINAL CODE FOR USE AND FABRICATION OF FALSE ICENTIFICATION.

JUDGE COMMENTED THAT COURT MAD SUFFICIENT EVIDENCE TO

PROSECUTE.

301-0300008.

EZ IMPORT•

---

## Page 131

14-00000

10

iNTO

TRUM

DISPATCH

Chlofe Latin Anorien DivisIon

LASSIK ALSON

NYBAT/SECRET

IN FIELD

ORIGINATOR'S REQUESI PUR HUS. FROCESSIMO

MORONO REQUESTIO.

NO INDA NINO

APIRTURE CARD RECUISIID

Chlof of Station,

ACtION MOU CANES

RYNAT FUDWELL - Forwarding of Documenta

Roforence:

A.

B.

C.

35326 (HCS-10,772)

55351 (HCS-10,775)

$5352

WARNING NOTICE

• SENSITIVI: INTUITIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

Forwarded horewith are sunleized coples of the documents cited

in tolerancos.

Diveribution:

1 • C/LA w/ntte h/w

L: 3 7112

102251e14

- DO NOT PENTHOX.

DA INPOUT

ДАлом бУмопі Ано МЕНОН

ICSA• 100A1

KAIRON

ВІСПіт

WEN ONE HUMMI

2 November 1020

200-12-200/1

L

---

## Page 132

14-00000

SECRETO!

REPUBLICA DE

CHILE

MINISTERIO DE RELACIONES EXTERIORES

EMBAJADA EN SAN JOSE, C. R.

ENDIPLAR N°

HOJA Nº

Bo COSTA RICA.

SECANO 2

Inforna sobre detención do ORLANDO BOSCHI AVIL

REP. Teles Sece. N° 20, F'IIMiLACIONEs. de 15-III.1976

SAN JOSE a COSTA RICA, 16 dO FARZO de 1976.

DE &

LIDAJANCH DE C.ILLIS EN 3AN JOSE DE COSTA RICA

3E. OR ALISIRO

US RELACIONES ETERIGLO DE CHILE (Subsec)

dem

Pongo el honor de dirigirmo a Us. para hacér de su

conocimiento quo el ala 18 do FiTRURO de 1976, fué doconido en

Costa Blee el eludadano cubano a AntierstrIota ORINiDO MOUCH A

Val als comproberas quio eu inerono al pula rabini eldo usando de.

-ermentación ertendida a noabro de liCTOR EMILIO NATON DAVANZO

СТАТОВЕУІ®

BOSCH AVILA, De el ánico do 10s ainco Joses con-

enerrerolucionarios de las villas que logró escapar con vidado

Saba, hreo ndo o menos 12 unos. de lo miñala cona el responsa

Blo de colocar una bonba en In mede de las laciones Unidao, en

Auora forte 8 de dinanstar un buque soviltico en Mani y notual

vierão , de ingresar à Coota Rica i pronumiblemendo, para song:

•paras contra lo vida do llo kiosinger duranto du rociento viso

al a onto palo.

Dia

desuaimonto, no onesentra recluido y un huelen do

háribro on 10 edrool do Cartaço, En auo declaraesoneo à la pron

Jo o hu mansfootados "Tongo una siesón que quiplia "deguire li

ohando racionalmente como de he lecho hasca aliora losusro ona

ruento en aodiridades anopsrativado allo tengo anterde de noso

promotor al Cobierno, Despudo de lo que ne ha hecho ne voy den

---

## Page 133

14-00000

18

APUBLICA DE: CHILLF

BAS DE RELACION 1 EXTERiORES:

MAJADA EN GAN: SE:C.R.

Eo DaiPLAR" N°

Eo COSTA RICAS

El Coblerno de losta Rica estudia la pouluilidad de

espulsarlo, pora , no eriate un palo interesado en dario asi-

10.

1l aor doienido BOSCH AVELA portaba la oigulonto do

cumentación:

¿=) Carcificado de Mncimiento ostendido en el Remia»

Ero CIvIl de Quiata Normal el 8. AGOSTO,2975 a rombro de HECTOR

EMILIO RATON DAVANLO CINTOLESI flinado por Alberto Casal, Je-

de Jocaión del Registro Civil. ineido ol 6.IGOSTO,1927 Inserta

otón Nº 953 Cireuneripción de Barrancas, Hijo de léctor Davan

so y de Analla Dariquota Cintoles1.

b) Carnot de Identidad iº 23571,22, dol Gabineto de

SantINgo. RUTo 20)570422-50

6) Conservador de Dienes Raicos Stg0, 'Registro "de

Vehfoulon Motoriandom 88 882722. Auto simea 1000. Focha $1.951

FINDRE. 1966.

d) PASATORTE corriento (color rojo) Nº 26583; de 25.

BEPTISURE. 1975 • estonididó a nombre de HICTOR ENILIO RAYONDA

VANZO CINTOLESIO Rogiutro dol Libreto de Pasaportos de 10 Cl-

Da do Moneda No I0441a1,979. Estoton sollos timbre de agua en

•Le SEROETAÇSO E LAR FITERO dO VICTORIA NURAN DONEN y MARZA SUS

MA BELDAN®

Anto documento tiene sesiutradas In esguientens

noteesona!

880 883i 2973. Balida do Oh110, por Pudatuelo

8Do XIlo 1973, Intrada y nelide de Panami, por 7o

osmone..

• ..

89e 11% 1973 Entrndo en Es Saliadore

*!'

---

## Page 134

14-00000

REFUBLICA DE f'"LE

STERIO DE RELACIONI

EXTERIORES

ENDAJADA EN GAN JOSE, C. R:

A 1C8l 188

soca lo 2

•Ta Io 1975. Intricia on Costa Ríodo

.30o Io 1.976o Salida do Costa Rica y'entrada on

Menraguae

-. 3T-1 90107110-0-110rlani ontrada en

Dosde el del suiRiR, L9%6 peranortó como turlota en.

Conta Mien y fue detalldo el 29, FiariO, 2976, al comproba

no filo du secumentacion era saleno

se la podlio uverlar; secrecenasto, que esta de

cumentación habría nido storrudo ou chile por un persona i

maqu do lionch a porteneciento aulario Instleucisa de Ino 5T.

¡Ado y un tendría al prada de cosanal.

mentoloondelasnbajadaydo.la nic.co 1n.orut.vos

DIOS GUARIS A 13.

Tini li

currado de innocson dle

---

## Page 135

-, MILE

S EXTERIORES

OSE. C. R.

'SO SAL JOSE, COSTA RICA OS RODOliZa

derrocaalunto Cobiurao.

REF. 8 NO hay.-

SAN JOSE®

do Jul1o do 1,976.

DESA LIDAJADOR DE CHILE EN "SAN JOSE" DE COSTA RICA

AL SR MINICTRO DE RELACICNES EXTERIORES (SUISEC y DIREIAS)

Tento ol honor de poner iu conoetalen

do UB-que os 101 ElEinos dias do 15 nacana pesada, sua 11505,

do 0l Cobtorno de LA República por suncionartos contidonaial

do 2a linhajado do 100 EE UD. o QUe Os aLESUNIA entarIaÇO prO

pándo ua cosplot ultra-derecadata con el objato do derrocar

dOblasTo de COSTA RICA, pOS COCALÁTAOLO PIO-DASALOtO O COBUR

Diche grupo sauridestino anti-eocuntot

estaria dirigido por el exilLado subano diLuiDO BOscil dvIlA;

dividuo que inspos a conta Rica ol 6 de j'obraro dos año osi

Bo, cono se expreon on al Ofiato socroto (Jubroe) 810 2, dei

de

pont

torno az asputado dol 1817990979 torosante

puos bion, en ricón do in pravodad de

Son boohos que no demoniabas, ol Canalitos daeto seelbio ord

1ºL Primor Mandatarão de trasladoroo urcontemento a Ounteral

neonguindo del Mintatro de seguridnd siblion dro Mario Cham

Nos CAmbos, a sla de veriliens la verseddad de lon beoloa a

realisas ano dilacenoton Indagatorino percimentos, Aneluso "

nivel de Cobiornoi due ass cono viajuron an pula monsionado.

Domingo A de Juldo l101uo, para rogrenar o Mon Jon6 en Le 1

Diman horas das dío Lunos 3.51

oS canelador y yo nos reunimos on dos crertunadndos, a obji

do cambior impronionon en torno a l00 conestapion on mundial.

fundamentalmento porque al cubano Donah habrão analfrutado,

dún os caneladuro que para concume os serge de estudo os c:

Mes contaba son el consureo de son Coblarnos de Quarendo

chile, a de aundo abusarand, no de data eridato edeunes 1l

Pronidonte Odubero

---

## Page 136

14-00000

A pesar de la invorostallitud ndaitida por ol

111ero lo annisento que tol

quiacida, anen de grave y

canallenca no poula conceitros al alqulera cono veruión intera

sada, por cuanto el cobiurao chilono há reiterado su grubtitud

Inoontrovertiblo para el Mintatro Facio y el Gobiorno cooturit

censo, por sus leales intervencionen y nubles setitudes evi

denciados en la Acamblos doneral do la Del, recientesunto redu

lizada es Santiaguo

no solicitô lo coordinora una entrevita para al ula basingo,

01 Enbajados de Chilo on Guatenala, donoral (1) EBouglilo

Balgado Raniro%, a quien deucaba participarlo lo. comoutarion

referidodo mixlas al de conuluera que el exaliado cuburo or

Lando Dosch Aulla linzó la voraión dol complot en dicho pulo

s, adocão, os portador do ua pasaporto chiloar, obtenilo 1200

Bitimamento y con noabre diferente.

A su rogrado, ol Miniotro no manifestó que inam

¿n so habla establocido, no obetanto 100 míltiplos 8121goncdas

practiendan, estimando conveniente desmentir la espedde. for

Bonor ol cariocer do un estúpido ruaur, doriyndo do los hablo

parlao dol BroBonos, dilos, asa dude, dobe ontar muy rolando

«on «l Cobierno, porque.

•atuvo irrentado y posteriormente tun'

•pulando del pala.

No agregó yue os doblerno de Quatenalo so con

•Ín conoodmiento do los rumoros comentadon y que los Mantatroo

do Dolonso y de Rolacionn Exteriores de dicho solo, de Aleros

aão blo enplias y catocoriona deguridados de esoporrollo, sas.

poniendono asentos a cuniqutor intento de dorsoenudonto que

Juliera sonorasco an nu, serritorte.

dioro el cancillos sambaba, que hubla sonido

uno corssad entrerdato con al sabajados anagado, a quãos esto

preal, como enil dieho, que nado no habio comprobado, reglen

dolo do todon nodon estar atonto a an elrousaolds do vero

la ledolo conniadoo

Pos Astimo, no haninus lo convendencia do pon

•uperar os sumaporto 1iossttno de Donelo pastandono de 10 00-

Ambornesos que puedna depanserso lun nutoriendon poblemos

de Oratanado, el josa de sandén nemodenido.

Fo os viros, mor o Ul. no nirva Conor o:

09 926

---

## Page 137

REPUDICA DE CHILE

MIN. TEMIO DE LANACIONE ENTERIOSIS

ABALAPADA EN BANCO i CON

/ Dson Instruir al Sr. Embajador Salgado respecto del nodr

operandl en el caso plantoado: teniendo en consideracios r

el pasaporto aludido es "ordinario", con tapan color s0jo,

tiona oL NO 26583, fue extendido el 25 de Septiombre de 1!

A DOSDIO de HECTOR SMILIO RASON DAVANZO CINTOLESI Y SOEIGE

varian anotacionos do entrada y salida de direroos paísea.

En muna, despude de Ian conversnciones sor

senidno con ol Miniatro Taolo y tambión con el Embajados el

los IloUUa on Conta Rios, Hr.Sorenco Josmas, con quien mazo

tento apeinos reluciones offetideo y de antatad, deduseo a

Los comentarios que ciroularon en torno al posiblo plan au

roralro para jorrocar el Gobiorno del Prooldento Odubar, 30

Dan parado alo alil do nos peros rusaros auraldos do hable

durían Imputablon:a Orlando Bench, lo anterioro por elerer

no Do 8b1co para adaltir la poeibilidad do una astratagia

Bo najuntan recortos de lon distintos 180r

de la empital que exprosan lo que el labajados 1nlronorsso

aintotsundo en el presento osteso.

DEOS QUANDE A UB®

0A•

ARANDA PARNA

aba jader

;.+

---

## Page 138

OUTGOING MESSAGE

OMF D

BLANY PICATION

4D

.0

CONF:

INFO!

i FILE

BATS. 100 80018]

3198

03000ộZ

CIA/DDO .:

0D03 00d 00.

#01107ттоmtes

937064

D

10'1 PEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION INTELLIGENCE DIVISION. Y

#112

CIOL - 0367-76 V

SECRET--WARNING NOTICE--SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS

.

INVOLVED--DISSEMINATION AND EXTRACIION OF INFORMATION CONTROLLED BY

ORIGINATOR Y

SUBJECTI REPORT RECEIVED BY PANAMANIAN NATIONAL GUARD ON ACTIVITIES

OF CUBAN EXILES POSSIBLY INVOLVED IN TERRORISM Y

Do THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION WAS RECEIVED PROM AN OPFICIAL OF A

PANAMANIAN SERVICE UNO IS A USUALLY RELIABLE REPORTER. HE PROVIDED

THE INFORMATION WITHOUT TNE KNOULEDGE OF HIS SERVICE OR GOVERNMENT.

THE INPORMATION IS VERY SENSITIVE, AND NO ACTION BASED UPON IT SHOULD

, BE UDERTAKEN WITHOUT THE APPROVAL OF THIS AGENCY Y

.. DO ON BE OCTOBER 147H, THE G-R SECTION OF THE PANAMANIAN

NATIONAL GUARD SGNSRECEIVED A MANDURITTEN, DOCUMENT WHICH APPARENTLY

MAS OBTAINED PROM A NEU EN G-@ SOURCE IN MIAMI: ALTHMIGH THIS SOURCE

18' NOT IDINTIPIED DY NAME IN THE DOCUMENT. THE URITER APPEARS TO DE

THE PROPRSETOR OP SPASCOIS SEA POOD!" 20J0 VEST TUENTY-THIRD STREET,

HEALAM MITH TELEPHONES ВОЛ-7744 СОРРСКУ, РОВ-ВЫТ СНОМС!• ФИЕ

DATIO

POABLE NEO, NUCORATE ADDITIONXE DISSIM TOR aLLA POPStITE, ACCLOSO

IPRODUGTION MY OTABA PHAN THE IGOUINO OFPICE IN PROMMYCO

---

## Page 139

OUTGOING MESSAGE

#Ф#

BIONAL ELATE

000

130

0

- **

OMF

0

D

LAABUNA7M

SECRET

W00nAa0 w

BAтg-1908 8

CIA/DDO

DISSEM BY!

COMP:

INFO:

FILE

.937064

Dum 1000 !

PHOGE NUMBER 854-4032 POLLOUED BY NOTATION MY HOUSS." ALSO APPEAKS

ON DOCUMENT. THE WRITER IS ASKING US-S $10.000 FOR HIS SERVICES. 4

3. PRESUMADLY TO ESTABLISH HIS BONA FIDES AND SUBSTANTIATE HIS

ACCESS TO INFORMATION OF VALUE TO THE PANAMANIAN GOVERNMENT, THE

WRITER SUBMITTED A LENGTHY REPORT ON ALLEGED RECENT CUBAN EXILE

AGTIVITIES ACCOMPANIED BY A LONG LIST OF CUBAN EXILGACTIVISTS. THE

DOCUMENT CONTAINS: AN ALLEGATION OF CIA INVOLVEMENT IN THIS ACTIVITY:

THE DOCUMENT STATIS THAT ORLANDO BOS CH IS. UNDER ARREST IN

VENEZUELA TOGETHER WITH LUIS PO SAD A CARRILES ALIAS "EL BAMBI."

BOSCH HAS TRAVELINGION A COSTA RICAN PASSPORT AND ALSO NAD NICARAGUAN,

DOMINICAN AND CHILLAN PASSPORIS Y

! THE REPORT LISTED BOSCH'S CONTACTS AS MANUEL PORR OIN

NICARAGUA, DESCRIBED AS BEING CLOSE TO GENERAL ANASTASIO SO MOZAS

ORLANDO NUNEZ IN COSTA RICARS AND MARBO REVADE L6 A IN

SANTO DOMINGO. POSADA IS DESCRIBED IN THE REPORT AS A PORMER U.S.

ARMY RANGER, UHO WORKED POR TISE VENEZUELAN GENERAL DIRECTORATE OP

POLICE EDIGEPOLA POR EIGHT YEARS AÑO THEN ORGANIZED A PRIVATE

DETECTIVE AGENCY WHICH EMPLOYS OVER 1•000 MEN• POSADA ACCORDING

00101

ST

40.

MANO ONES

RUPROBUCTION DY OTAUR THAN THE INAUINO OPFIGUIN PROMOTED

IMPOET

---

## Page 140

14-00000

OUTGOING MESSAGE

BIONAL CEATHNJOEUNLY

100

D

n

3

SECRET

17+340916904140610

CONF:

INPOi: PILE

was!

- 1008

DISSEN BY!

93706%

PER

TO THE REPORT, DIRECTED ALL VIOLENT ACTIONS IN VENEZUELA AGAINST THE

COMMUNISTS, HIS ALIASES WERE "INSPECTOR BASILIO" AND "EL CALICHE."'

THE RECENT OPERATION AGAINST THE CUBANA PLANE WAS MOUNTED BY POSADA..

ASSISTED BY ALDO VERA. THE URITER OF THE REPORT CONTINUES THAT

BOSCH'S RECENT TRIP TO VENEZUELA WAS AN ATTEMPT TO SETTLE THE

DIPFERENCES BETUEEN "ALDO'S GROUP" AND THE "COORDINATION OF UNITED

REVOLUTIONARY OPGANIZATIONS" (CORUS. BOSCH'S MISSION LAS SUCCESSPUL

AS IT APPEARS CORU AND ALDO'S GROUP VILL UNITE,, ALDO VERA IS

REPORTEDLY IN PUERTO RICO. THE URITER ADDS THAT. ALDO'S GROUP WILL

INTER VENEZUELA

IN NOVEMBER 1976 TO MOUNT A SERIES OF ATTACKS AGAINST

CUBAN EMUASSIES IN CENTRAL AND SOUTH AMERICA. Y

'D, 8T IS NOT ENTIRELY CLEAR PROM THE REPORT, BUT IT APPEARS

THAT THE MRITER IS RIQUESTING THAT VIVIAN PERN

ANDEEDE

CASTRO, POSSIBLAY JAILED IN CUBA, BE ALLONED TO TRAVES TO PANAMA

SINCE THE HAS ALREADY SERVED HER SENTENCE• PERNANDEZ WOULD THEN

TRAVEL PRON PANAMA SO MIANI WHERE SHE EULS BE OP SERVICE TO THE

WRITER•

THIS AGENCY PROVIDED ADDITIONAL INPORMATION TO THE POX

MEPRODUSTICN DY OTE A THAN THA ISOUINS GOPIGN IO PROMOTTOO

---

## Page 141

14-00000

¡ OUTGOING MESSAGE

BANAL CAMARUORONLY

$ 430

Fod

0

# 1553

OMF

0

SECRET

D H6 DAD0 MANEUNUS MOICATOR

CONF:

D

DISSIM AY!

FILm

0" me mee'

.937064

ON QUIS POSADA VIA CIR-294-76 986 LE OCT 1976. NO ADDITIONAL INFORMA-

TION IS AVAILABLE ON MANUEL PORRO. ORLANDO NUNEZ MAMY BE IDENTICAL.

TO ORLANDO NUNE 2 PEREZ, UNO LCCORBINE TO THE RECORDS OF THIS

AGENCY, IS A CUBAN EXILE RESIDING IN COSTA RICA AND SERVING AS PRESS

SECRETARY OF COSTA RICAN PRESIDENT JOSE FIGUERES: AS OF

MARCH 1972. MARIO RIVADILLA MAY BE IDENTICAL WITH MARIO RIVA -

DUL L A CARCEDO, DOBI CIRCA 1930, CUBA. IN 1952 À PEARLY RELIABLE

SOURCE SAID THAT HE WAS A COMMUNIST MEMBER OF THE NATIONAL EXECUTIVE

COUNCIL OF THE ORTHODOX CUMOAN PEOPLE'S PARTY IPPCS AND CHIEF OF THE

PRORASANDA BUREAU: OF THE ORTISON YOUTH- AM ANN OR THE PRE. IN A

1420 PRESS ARTICLE BASED ON INTERVIEWS WITH RIVADULLAY NE CLAIMED TO

, HAVE BEEN IMPRISONED IN CUBA PROM 1962 TO 2967 FOR ANTI-CASTRO"

AGTIVITIES. HE LEPT CUBA IN 1920. IN A 2972 NEUSPAPER INTERVICH,

RIVADULLA CLAIMED TO BE A JOURNALIST LIVING IN THE DOMINICAN REFUILIC

SINCE 1170 AND A MEMOCR OF THE INTER-AMERICAN PRESS ASSOCIATION

WORKING FOR THE PREEDON OF NEUSMEN IMPRISONCO IN CUEAS.

IN ANOTHEd

SHTERVICU IN SATÉ ME CLAIMED TO HAVE ACTIVELY OPPOSED THE PULGENCIO

DATEST A REGIAL AND DACHED FIDEL CA STRO BUT BECAME

GAYDI

0ne0

090D9h 0900

IUPRODUSTION OY OPHNA THAN THE MOVING OPRICO IN PROMOTIO

IMPOUT

---

## Page 142

OUTGOING

BONAL CONTEN INBONLY

0

D

ESSAGE

D

Pa0%

5

OMF

CADENCATEN

BATH-9981

INFO:

FILE

*o •

DISSEN WYE

PER

837064

DISALLUSIONED WITH THE CASTRO REGIME. IN 1924 HE WAS REPORTED TO BE

A PADIO AND TELEVISION COMMENTATOR IN THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC.

IN NOVEMBER 1975% A WOMAN LIVING IN MIAMI UHOSE SON IS CURRENTLY

ALLEGEDY. 27

A PRISONER IN CUBA ADVISED A CONTACT OF THIS AGENCY THAT RIVADULLA, HAD

BEEN IN PRISON WITH HER SON. THEY HAD PROMISED EACH OTHER THAT THE

PIRST ONE TO BE RELEASED WOULD DO ALL IN HIS POWER TO OBTAIN THE

FREEDOM OF THE OTHER. IN THIS CONNECTION, RIVADULLA FURNISHED TO

THE MOTHER OF THE PRISONER THE NAME'OF A WOMAN IN NEW YORK CITY WHO

PROMISED TO GET THE SONE OUT OP JAIL IN RETURN FOR PAYMENT OF U.S.

025,000. THE WOMAN'IS MARTA DIMENEZ MARTINEZ, WHOM IS DESO

CRIBED IN AGENCY RECORDSE AS VERY CLOSE TO FIDEL CASTRO, AN OPPORTUN-

¡ISTO IRRATIONAL. AND UNPREDICTABLE. MER ESTRANGED HUSBAND• BERNAL

d'AM IS PAYAD, IS REPORTEDLY A CUDAN GENERAL DIRECTORATE OF

INTELLIGENCE EDGIS OPFICER, JIMENEZ IS ATTACHED TO THE CÜBAN MINISTRY

OP POREIGN APPAIRS AND IS PREQUENTLY A DELEGATE TO THE UN GENERAL

ASSEMBLY.

FBI REPORT SA-305"

S46OR, DATED 89 JUNE 2774, CONTAINS ADDITIONAL INPORMATION ON ISYA-

DULLA. NO ADOITIOMAL INPORMATION IS AVAILABLE ON VIVIAN PERMANDEZ

a armen

NAPRODUGTION UY OTHER THAN TIE

NO GIFIED IS PROMITIO:

IMPOST

L

---

## Page 143

ta-tended

UNGUINE MESSAGE

BIONAL CEMEN GER@ALT

0 .

0:

OMF

SECRET

вполов пет

COMF:

0

BATH-TING SHOUT

0

«+РН

INFO:

FILE

937064

0

0

DISSEN IT:

PER

DE CASTRO. Y

170: CLASSIFIED BY RECORDED REPORTING OFFICER. EXEMPT FROM

GENERAL DECLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE OF EXECUTIVE ORDER 1I6SZ. EXEMP

TION CATEGORY 58 (23. IMPOSSIBLE TO DETERMINE DATE OF AUTOMATIC

DECLASSIFICATION. CLASSIFIED BY |OU7255.MB

FILE: 56-8-111 56-2-9/36 201-2626948 201-2811973 201-8766304 201°

7840656 201-9203334 201-299292

Behind

ACILA/MACA

CALAICAR

CALA/OPS

A dame

AGC/ODO

€2/0G

CE/RBA.

CAM!

DAVID P.

•HOMPSONINT

LAVPNCIPAIR

14S4

•10.

Миль.

OTHEN THAN THE INUUING OSPICH ID PRON

Machizen

IMPDIT

L

---

## Page 144

FBI DOCUMENT

DATE, 5 OCTOBER 1976

CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL

BUIJECTS ACCION CURANA. (AC.)

THI FILE NO: 105-16193 (SAN JUAN)

---

