# 104-10194-10002

## Page 1

104-10194-10002

MATERIAL REVIEWED AT CIA HEADQUARTERS BY

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MEXBERS

FILE TITLE/NÜMBER/VOLUNE:

SHENSON, HAROLD F.

FILE

INCLUSIVE DATES:

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:

ROOM:

DELETIONS, IF ANY:

PRICE 12: 1912

DATE

RECEIVED

DATE

RETURNED

17.02

12. 5000.2

- 142/28

REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME)

TILIAN BLACKER

SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

suntha Bachun

NU DOCUNENTS MAY RE. COPIED OR ALOVED FROM THIS FILE

TERMINATED

SWENSON, HAROLD E.

16229

---

## Page 2

14-00000

19 March 1974

NOTE FOR:

DD/Pers/R&P

DOW:

Mr. Rodrigues called to mention that Mrs.

Mildred Swenson, wife

of Harold Swenson, is available

should a need

for a qualified secreta

ever arise

sither on a full-time or part time basis.

I told him I would send the name to you,

but I did

not encourage him

as to the prospects.

B.

• Defelice

DD/Pers

#DOB, May 1913

---

## Page 3

14-0000

Д 6/141:

trilsiral

ilo

4.

:.

Cover

Sccurily

38: 119 ilga.

211

liecarino

DAi!

iu.:.

212

Liti

5-17408

02364008000001

Mot for ritinge.

No Corar:?

fa joun ritention.

3.

Hot cor Moingo tararpoor?

ani tramadlint lo scriti.

Pirate inaland Cony i 1; Cora

29 Me 20 capars

Ket yor

i firme - diet pon

go peri

superden

recered?

(ret e nate)

---

## Page 4

5005 2020m00r Lane

Storada,

aryland 20011

3 DoccubAr 1968

Tio Diructor of forgonnel

Dear 51rg

This Is a request for ar extension of tire within wilch to

nove my household offocts fron larylars to a retiromert alto.

I retired at tro erl of July 1963 arl my undorsterding la

Chat tie noral perlod ior neving to a ratironent ofte

a1x montls or until 31 January 1969 In liy 0680.

It also 18

my underatanting that you have discretionary

authority to

oxtini de

Ly roquest la baged on the cirouetanced described below.

Dwing my tour of dutr mmodlituly precuding sellierent, ly

rotier lost hor aigt due le scute Glauco:?.

On my return

Iroi oversons la ories to rolre,

one ot the problems wrich

facod en was tho oure of my mothor who had been living In

hor own apartnont in diet dorsoyo

The crobler: becane mra

difiloult coincido: tally with my retiromont when in july my

mothor suffered a fall, resulting in multiple cenotures of

her dige

Since tien abe tas boon inter tre onle of two

doctora,

Irst in a hospital a cur-artly in a nursing, rore.

Tro oxtunt to milan she will ve adio to mil 1a questionable.

Frior wotiring. I had planned to devote the time Irriediately

ofter the uffectivo into of retirement to exploring retirorent

No accilart to ry mother and problems rolated to 1t

have prevonted the darrying out of ry plarg.

I remain uncortain

about ny rotirerent location and reachine a decision dopenda in

part on my rotter's contiming need fol care and upon my being

able to travel to Invostigato crospective totirorent sites.

to resolve the matter but lt appears iost In'robuble

that I Brull be able to do so

nelor to the end or next january.

I shall appreciate jor prarting in axtea on of tho ior roving

01r iouselold ef:octs.

Very trily yours,

Barold F. Swenson

Approved - Subject to movement of household effects cormencing before

31 wily 1969.

Acting Dir Etor oi Personnel

134.

Date:

---

## Page 5

UNCLASSIFIED

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

J CONFIDENTIAL

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT:

(Cirroral).

(Harold Swenson

FROM:

.. C/EUR

4B-4405

TO: (Oton daagnator, room number, end.

building)

1.

Mr. William Broe

Chief

WH Division

2. 3D-3105

3.

EXTENSKOR

5881

EATE

OFFICER $

COMMENTS (Number soch commens lo shem from milor

INUTIALS

! Is whom

Dege a line across column offer soch comment.)

DATE

#CEIVED

FORWARDED

65

C/WH Personnel

13

3.

7.

CSPS

ATTN:

8. Roon GG-10

offile

11.

12.

13.

14.

1S.

FORMA

J-d2

7. Paul:

We've discussed this on the

phone.

This wound up in my hands about

a month before Mr. Swenson

retired • much

too late to do

anything about it.

It has

been brought to C/WIl's

attention.

Discussions with

WH/EXO led to decision to

take no action.

Would you

please forward to Swenson's

official file.

Chank

610 gus 1556:

CONFIDENTIAL

LY

UNCLASSIF

---

## Page 6

1 MAY 1055

MEMCRANDUM FOR: Chicf, WH Division

SUBJECT

: og

Harold Swenson

Attached telepouch from

recommends Subject be awarded the Intelligence Medal of

derit or some other appropriate recognition on the occasion

t his retirement, scheduled for 31 May 1968.

European Division endorses this recommendation on

' excellent performance in his Euro

assignment but defers to you in view of his affiliation

with your division.

dohn L.

Europeal Division

Attachment:

Telepouch,

EGFT-11333

---

## Page 7

SECRET RYSAI TELEPOSCA

wISP NO .

FILE NO

• NONE

NAiL

INDEXING

MICHUFILM

TO

INFO

FROM

SUBJECT

• NONE

- NONE

• CHIEF, SUR /EYES ALQUEE

•ADMINFENSUNNEL

+-20

→ Harold Swenson

ACI ION

REFS

• SEE PAÑA 3

• NONE

• Harold Swenson

1O WIIN THE DEPAÑIGGE OF .

NAVE WAREFULLY

REVIEUED HIS EXTRALIZIKAY ACCOMPLISHTENES DURLAU THE PAST SE

MUNINS AS THE SENIOR FYPE: REPRESENTATIVE IN EUROPE. DURING

THIS PERIO HE HAS IN A SUSCESSFUL ANO SUPERO MANNER MANOLEO

iR PARIICIPAIED IN OFINATIUNO INVOLVINO SUME SO ASSETS, MANY

OF INEM RESIDENI AGENTS IN PORUMEN. ALSO I AM AGAME IMAR YOU

•ANS INTIMAIELY FAMILIAS GiTH THE EXCELLENCE OF HIS EARLIER DURN.

¿• HIS ACHIEVERENTS IN RECRUIIMENI AND MANOLINS OF AGENTS

REFLECT HIS HIGH PROFESSIDNAL STAUARDS, CUIPETENCE, ULGIGNTION

(AND PERSEVERANCE. ILSE MARA MIN AS A NEMANNAOLE SENION ENSE

OFFICER WHOSE QUISIANCIRS PERFORMANCE MERITS APPALUIAIIDN®

3. ACCORDINILY 1 EASIESTLY MCCUMENU THAÏ GUEDIUEINTIUN

BE GIVEN TO AMARUIN TIE MEDAL OF MERIT ON DEMER APPIUPILATE

RECOGNICION TOO

•LFUN HIS RETIREMEN ON SA MAY 1O0S.

* .

1A FIEL AGREEMENT WITH THIS RECUNIESONTIDTO

DISTRISUIION • BY TELEREN

SECHET RYBAT

•PAGE 1

---

## Page 8

14-00000

SECHET RYBAT

4 • CHIEF, EUR

2 = COS, GERMANY

SECRET RYBAT

EGFT - 11333

PAGE 2

EG FT - 11333

PAGE

---

## Page 9

14.00000

3 Lecenher 1?69

lar: "s Taalt.lr

Division de bloonaino Services

low tork Clty, low lork

Dento "r, Inttlars

10207

The baln InCoration ls In responso to your agoent luttor

gear lne lownrl te swengon.

tr. Swenson was emplogal hy this

Menoy iron Manuare 1755 1o "ay 1968.

As a santor staff dificor

le ilport prospans lott from loadquartorg and ovarsone.

Willa

3 and in more spettle sout hila dutlay hore, theg ware cuch

an endorne himas. haine murlifter to act In tho

capatty of an Investirator

piTo

ivenson's provious sori oxperiance from 1041 en 191,

anl Ig'ri to 1747 as 8 Speclal Agent with tho Fal, Iron 19id1 to

106, 1n 11r Combat Intolligonce with the l'as, l'arine Corps, and

1253 to 195% 99

A Stare Assistant for Security and Personnel

wich

instes Roultack and Company would also apponr to quality hin"

AA An triastlintor.

"le onored with this Arancy was constatantle posil and 1t 1a

recarmondat tut bila appliration ba piven favoratla conalirration.

Vory trily gours,

P. M. Landmin

Fersonnol atilcer

1. chan

-waison rilo

0P/RAD/C. Au/Ptlandrurgvr

(3 Dec 69)

C/ELAR

---

## Page 10

14-00000

L'immy in petting

RESUNE

Haroid F. SWeNSON

3003 Elzonior lanio

Polrasda,

Co]: 0L. 2-8223

EXPPE LENCE:

1. U. S. Central Intelligore Agoncy

1955-1968

Goratiure Off1oer, 05-13

Sana Johuing CIA in 1958, bave haid fondur Jonai piolticna

in tho finis of sailoutlo, analgola an copirting ""

Ігіотравісь

Sparladlxod in Lallu Abortoa.

Cinered jei1t100l;

mitutali, mialbary si gorgraphlo sibjeuto. As corior stalt

ufficor, dirautou ibo prugran duli trum Herepartors aud snilo

unroeso dy chiaf ut s latin statich.

Conduttod high i0vo%

Illoul min orner utfaudais ci tho OIA, utcor 8. 5.

G: vertant

Agorolos al Forolgo Governerito.

Eutablasiad rofironerita

• and priorition ou oporatione.

Responaibio Tur an 00Fzert

l'uncesono no perourol, jugiativo, faraino al pocaricy.

27 Muy68

2.

1953-1955

National security dirachor aud amployes relaticas suportador.

GLif 011 Gurporation

(Mero Grando 01) Comany affiliato)

1947-1952

Diriston Sucartser of Industrlal Rolationa for Las'ern

VoTeruola:

Rosuniolbio für intar roditiona, soarity,

aonident proventlit, @totica and trainino, lago and Jaiury

aministratin, potermen rolations.

Frioral Bureau of Invoatigation

1907-19091

Special Agerit

Dessatso sosimento in Dad Miras, Inta, Hasaligtia, D.G.,

Nsa York City,

New York, Menors, Ney Jersey, e les Bruralek,

New Jersay".

Spondai anodgruents outdue tha iniced Statos

11: Maxteo and Argentina.

---

## Page 11

14-00000

5. Rout, Clart, Dichnor and Ballantino

6.

1938-1941

New York City low t1ra.

Bakoltro Corporation,

Buund Brouk, Non Jarsoy

1934-1937

Esployod durina college verations.

HLITARY:

Cabai exporiouva in Hoatara Carulinos ari Orliate.

Captair, Unitod StaLer Marina Curo, fotorvo, Rotirod (Air Sembat Intelllgence

EDUCATION:

Manhatton Collago, A.B., 1933-1938, (Clada Fresident, Elitir of Manhattan

Quarterly; Barins, Dobatlinz..

unci sicloty prodident, bota sigma suoda

ratomity, maresi gratuato ehulurshiy lo Fonihan miversity na outylandin

gradusto of Manhattan in 1938.)

Pordhan Unsveralty Solsol of Li, 1938-1941.

Othas peacolos FBI Aoday: Marino Corpo Offsuora Schuola, Army Alr Foroe

School of Applied Taotloo; Induomini Rolaticas Counselore.

LANGUAGES:

Fiuent Spaniah for all purposes,. Adoquaro Francd for research and translation.

REFERENCES:

AlI CIA impilrios ebrido bo direoted by lettar or talophono to: :

Me. G. B. Poat

P. 0. Bos 9512

Ronalyn Statton

Arlingion, Virginia

Talephono: 703-752-31295

---

## Page 12

14-00000

JOHN P. LOMENZO

SECRETARY OF STATE

WALTER D. BAKER

EXECUTIVE DEPUTY SECRETARY

LLA I. MALARI

IRECTIS

BERNARO SILBERMAN

ASSISTANT. DIRECTOR

• FRED E. CAPE

ASSISTANT DIRECTOR

STATE OF NEW YORK

DEPARTMENT OF STATE

DIVISION OF LICENSING SERVICES

270 BROADWAY

NEW YORK CITY 10007

November 10, 1969

Director of Personnel

Central Intelligence Agency

J. S.

Government

washington, D. C. 20505

Dear Sir:

Harold Francis Swenson, formerly residing at 5005

Lane, Sethesda, maryland, is presently applying

for a license as a private investigator in the State of

New York.

In order to process this application it is

necessary to ascertain

applicant is qualified to

act in the cpaacity of investigator.

MI. Swenson has indicated that he has been in your

employ for several years:

Please advise License

Investigator Allan

Teitico, Department

of State, State

of New York, 270 Broadway, New York, N. Yo, as to whatever

information your department may give us regarding

qualification of Mr. Swenson and years of employ.

Your continued cooperation is greatly appreciated.

Sincerely,

JCHN F. LCHENZO

Secretary of State

By:

allan S. Litter

Allan 3.

Teitler

License Investigator

pr

162 Washington Avenue

Albany 12225

349 Chenargo Street

Binghamton 13902

State Ofter Burkding

Bute s 14202

" Country Road

Minenta 1 1501

270 Broadway

New York 10007

201 Broad Strewn E.

Rochester 14004

150 Sr. Slurks Place

Staten Istand 10508

~ Orice Building

_use 13202

1500 Genesee Street

Uts# 13502

35 starburion Avenue

Yorkers 10701

---

## Page 13

14-00000

SECRET

PERPAFID

REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION

016229

SWENSON, HAROLD F

NATURE CA PISONNEL ACTIOPE

RETINENT (VOL) UNDER CLA

FETIFEMENT AND DISABILITY SISTEM

vrov

V IO CE

B. FUND$

I CE T0 Y

C. 10 0

B DICANCATONAL DASIGNATIONS

DDP/EUR

CENTRAL REDION

GERMANY STATION

FRANKFURT BASE

WH AREA NEPRESENTATIVES

I1 POSITION MILI

OPS OFFICER WH

1A. CLASSIBICATION SCHEDULE (65. 1.18. 086.0

1S OCCUPATIONIAS SERIES

GS

18. REMANK$

0136,01

CC PAYROLL

WWD: &E JUNS 1968

13

10 JUN 1968

07-31-68

APPECTIVE DATE RIQUISTEU

теля

06 |-3ö 168°

PINANCIAL

ANALYSIS NO

CHARGEABLE

9236 2070

10. LOCATION DR OFFICLAL STATION

3 CAMIOONY DI EMPIOTANT

RDO ULAR

LIGAL AUTMORTY I d'arginial the differe of

vepann0119-643

Siet.233

FRANKFURT,

GERMANY

1I POSITION NUMME

CARIEN SERVICE DESIGULANCA

0l,78

18. GRADE AND STEP

15 6

385,169

→ fette?

6.5p5/1

SA. SIGNATURSOR HOUASINO ONCIS

DATE SICBRO

18B. SIGNATURE

19. ACTION 20 IMPLOT EN.

8O0E

COOE

c/8/PERS

SPACE BELOW

FOR EXCLUSIVE USÉ DE THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

13. INT166E8

24. MDOTES.

ALFMABETIC

CODE

. COOI

CO0E

2$

но.

DATE OF GRADE

DA,

+*.

10

28.

HTE EXPIELS

29. 5P1C162

но.

REDIRENCE

175C

• В 8s:

XKXKX

JS. VET PREFERENCE

CODe

15.e 66798

Ate

.1A.

1-919

3- tộ P7.

41.

PREVIDUS CIMFLIAN GOVERNMENT SIRTICE

CODE'

@-HO FREVIONS SERTICE

1-10 ВПАВ ІН МЕЧЕ

J- ETLAN IN SITTILA (MODE INAN I TLARS,

13. POSITION CONTROL CIRTUICATION

coct

J1. SEPARATION

DATA CODE

C428115

32 (ORRECTION.

MEHIATION DATA

но.

DA.

EOD DATA

(280 DATT

B1600,0.

CASIA CATEGORY

PROr Tima

P1GI, MIALTM INSURANCE

O - HAILA

0 121

4Z LEADÉ CAI

(0PF

NORM I RICUrEO COOl

TEUREM TAÀ DAY&

NO. PAS EXIMATIONS

7. 1-68

16. OP MAPROVAL

cile

HOBY 1152

USE PREVIOUS EDITICA

SECRET

DATE SIGNIED

DATE OF 1I1

DA.

va.

33 SECTITY

652. 10.

34. 3LA

dU SACH SECURITY HO

STATE TAI DAIA

PARÍSTATE CODE

CATE APPROVEO

2S16

(4)

---

## Page 14

14-00000

SECRET

REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION

12 FEB 68

016229

SWENSON,

HAROLD F

J MATURI DI PRISONNAI ACTION

1 V.une 66.

EXTENSION OF PRA

NTE: 05-MARGH 3270

A AURIOS

CA TO V

• ONGANIZARIONAS DESIGHATIOAS

TIP/EUR

FOREIGN FIELD

CENTRAL REGION

CEPMANY STATION

FRANKFURT BASE

WH AREA REPRESENTATIVES

18 POSITION PIPLE

XX

CA 10 0

EFRECITTE DATE MIQUESTID

3 CAPIÇORY OF IMPIOVAENT

ĐAT

+848

03

06

_168

Troma

ANALYSIS NO

CHARGEABIE

REOULAR

Frozewarty

8136 2070

10 LOCATION DI OMICLAL SPAPIONA

FRANKF URI,

GERM. ANI

12 POSITION NUMBIA

1S CARERA SIRVICE DESIGNATIOM

(Ils)

OPS OFFICER WH

14 CLASSHICATION SCHEDULE (GS. J.A. Fis.)

15. OCCUPATIONAS SIBIS

0478

TO CRATE AND STEP

D

18 SALARY: OR-RATE

GS

0136.01

15 5

$ 20,856

#PRA HR 20-17d 1 (D)

DATE SEGMED

IBS SAINATURE DE CARLER SEPAICE APPROVINE ORTICER

DATE SICHED

19. ASTIGN TPO. TAPOr. 28.

CO01

6005

31110

MTE EXPrEES

по.

OA.

NUMERIC

79. 5/181A2

BI/(019()

/E/PERS

SPACE BELOW TOR INCLUSIVE

USE OF THE OFFICI OF PERSONNEL

24 MDOTAS

CATE CE MIRTH

1.26

OFFICE (001#6

ALPMABAIIE

72 S1A7100

CO04

COOt

COne

DA.

40.

101)

C 4/28115

BETIBEMINT DATA

31. SXPARATION

DATA (008

32 CONESTION CAPEILALICN DATA

•73C

cODe

Tire

DATE DA GRADE

oл.

DATE OF LHI

то.

33.

SECURITY

se 11l

EOD DATA

13-m241

1S VII PRESERZICE

coce

io - nont

то.

WIN COMP CATE

0 A.

8- 10 11

MENIOUS CIVILIAN GOTERNMIHI SERVICE

coce

O- B0 PRETICUS SETTE

2-BRIAS NO SAPTICE (LE1S THES § FLAAS)

J-POLAR IN SERALE (MORI IAN & PLASSI

AS. POSITION CONTADI CIRTNICATION

J8 LONG CCMP DATE

as0.

DA.

+*.

38

CAB. REST

709. ILEP

CARTER CATIGORD

CONt

MIGLI. MEALTE INSURANGE.

cere

Ta maria

MRALIN INS. 100%

1 - 981

S0. SOCIAL SACUATITE DU

48 BEAVE CAI

(008

la: BATA

PORA ERfCUTO CODe

1-988

8-80

MORA AERCUTIO

1- 11%

8-B0

Sale Tas dark

Coce TN8249 31476608

109м 1152'

USE PREVIOUS EDISON

3-07

2-23-6880 09919516

Pilloser!

SECRET

1714119 1e3a 20R

90885832991

AB9 DICLAISIATICR

DAT APEDITO

17.33-40

---

## Page 15

14-00000

25 JUN 1968

MRMORANDUM FOR: 1t. larold P. Staneon

THROUCH

¿ Deputy Director for Plane

Chlof, Weotorn Remisphere Division

SUBACT

& Extenaton of Retirenent Date

I am plonsed to Inform you that an excenaton of your

retirouent date until 31 July 1968 haa been approved.

/s/ Hi. B. Fisha-

Robert 6. Wattles

Director of Personnal

Approved under authority contained in menorandum dated

27 My 1968, Retirement Extonalona, approved by the

Director on 5 June 1968.

Distribution:

0 - Addressee

1 - DDP

d = WH

• • D/Pers

+= OPP

2 - TB (1 m/h)

OP/BSD/B/

Jlsh (21 June 1968)

CONFIDENTIA

---

## Page 16

14-00000

CONFIDENTIAL

2 9 MAY

MENDRANDUM PUB:

THROUGH

SUBJECT

Mi. Harold 2. Sueseen

Deputy Diractor for Plens

Chlaf, Support Ssoff, SUR Diviaion

L. Voluntary Retiresa! Brsenaton

Thio la lo divise you has, hated sa a requent frora

your Divialon, your voluntary retiresesi dalo has bien

changed lu 30 Jine

1953.

Is/ Robert S. Wattles

Robert 3. Mi-celas

Director of Pereoncel

Diatributiorg

0 - Adúrcasee

DUP

EUB

D/Pers

i .

OFF

1 - T8 Reader.

1 - IB Soft File

OP/BSD/B/ 1ai (28 May 1963)

CONFIDENTIAL

GROUP 1

spinaite*

---

## Page 17

14-0000

CONFIDENTIAL

(Wach Filled In)

I horcby acknowledge thai I have icad and unduisiand ine contonis

of Handsool: 20.1, Employee Conducü,

dated 7 ociouri 1903, end che

info macion brochure for PCS reüurnues, daüed Mey 1954.

Signature

Stay l

12:031

CONFIDENTIAL

(Wnch Filled In)

---

## Page 18

14-00000

SECRET

(Than filled 8n)

RAME OF EMPLOYEE

Swenson, Harold F.

NAME

AND RELATIONSHIP. OF DEPENDENT»

CLAIM NUMBER.

Self

68-1037

There is on file in the Benefits and Counseling Branch, Benefits and

Services Division, Office of Personnel, an Official Disability Claim

File on the above named employee (or his dependent") for an illness,

injury, or death incurred on —

12 March 1968

This notice should be filed in the empioyee's Official Personnel Folder

as a permanent cross-reference to the Official Disability Claim File.

SIUSATURE DE BSD DEPRESENTATIVE

DATE DE NOTICE

14 Max 1968

1895, 1076 use paerious

NOTICE OF OFFICIAL DISABILITY CLAIM FILE

SECRET

18-21-381

---

## Page 19

14-00000

Diss, Harold F. Smonson

50u4

dgemoor line

Bothasda, Maryland 20014

15 MAY 1968

As you reach tho and of your aetive earoor

of Coveiament sorvice, I want to join your trionde

and colleagues in wishing you contimed success

and antlatection in your rotirement.

You have every reason to loal groat pride

and satialaction in your accomplishmento.

Your

record of sorvico la both arample and goal for ta

young people who are soy juet beginning their

caroore in Intelligenes

May I entend to you, personally and officially,

my sincore approctalios for the important work you

have done and my warmest hoped that you will find

fall enjoyment in the goars abead.

Sincerely,

DO Echard Helme ®

Alchard Helma

Director

Distribution:

• • Addressoe

1 - DDCI

I - ER

- C/EAB/OS

1 - D/ Pers

1 - OPF

1 - RB Reader ::

OP/BSD/RB/

Frig. Re-evictin

Originator:

Concur:

SIGNED

Is/ Rohort S. Ia's

13 MAY 1968

Director of Personnel

• 8 MAY 1968

C/EAB/OS

•sc (1 May 1968)

---

## Page 20

14-00000

NEMORANDUM FOR:

Diroctor of Central laselligence

SUBJECT

: Renuest for Voluntary Rollremers o

Harold F. Swoneon

1. The memorandum submits a recommendation for your approval;

this recommendation la contained lo paragraph +.

2. MIr. liarold F. Swenson, GS-15, Operations Officer, European

Divialon, Clandeallne Servicea, has appllod for voluntary retiremeat under

the proviolone of Hesdquarters Regulation 10-50), lo be offective 3l May

1968.

3. Mr.

Swenson has beon dealgnated a participant in the ClA Rollro-

ment and Disability Syatem and meeta tdo technical requirements for vol-

untary setiremont wader the Syotem. Aa of 31 Say 1968 he nill be 53 years

old and will have over 20 yoara of Federal Servico.

This service Includes

over 13 years with the Agency of which more than S years were In quallying

service overses.

The Head of the Clandestine Services Career Service

and the CIA Retirement Board have recommended that his application for

voluntary retirement be approved. I endorse these recommendations.

4. It lo recommended that you approve the voluntary rotirement of

Mis. Harold F. Swenson under the provistons of Headquartere Regulation

20-50J.

Robert 5. Wattles

Director oi Personnel

The secommendation.contalned in peragraps i is approved.

154 Richard Helma

Director of Central Intelligence

Distribution:

U - Return to D/Pers

1 • DDCI

1 - ER

l - D/Fera

1- OP Flles

2 - RB (1 w/ held)

2 FEB 1568

Dato

OP/ESD/RE/L

_jas (26 Jan 68)

---

## Page 21

14-00000

(:

SECRET

118 ham latind in!

REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION

DATE PRIPARED

21 February 1942

010229

SHENSON, HAROLUE

3 MATURE OF PIASONAEL ACTION

BLASSIGNNENT

v to y

• FUMOS

Ce 1O CI

• ORGANATIONAL DESIGNATIONS

APOP/EUR FORIGIN

FIELD

CENTRAL REGION

MEDORDINATTON AN

COORDINATION AND SUP BASE, FRANKFURT

DEFICE OF TUE CHICE

1Y POSITION TITLE

OrS OFFICEN

I1 CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (GiN. I.I. eRi.)

. (14)

IS OCCUPATIONAL SERIES

REMARKS

PRA-per IIi 21- (2)

013000L

for

•* 1-17 D(3)

slotting for new T/0.

(1)

•. inecrive Dati elQuesreD

23122161

PINANCIAL ANALTSIS

NO. CHARGIASIE

7130-2070

10 LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION

3 CATEGORY OP EMPLOYMIPAT

REGULAR_

" LECA: AUTHORITY (Completed by Opte af

forsonnell

FRANKEURT, GENRANY

12 POSITION NUMMA

1J CARERA SERVICE DESIGNATION

0478

To GRADE AND STEP

15 - S

.D.

I, SALARY OR RATE

3 12,278-

DATE SIGNED

188.

SIGNATURE OF CAREER SERVICE APPROVINCi OFFICEA

IT/l'ersonnel

19 ACTION 20 IMPOr$21

• 1008

c00g

3210

WIL EXPIRES

то

pa.

03/10168

JS VET PULLERENCE •

1008

taes AusAt

OTICE (OOING

RUMIRIC

ALPHABETA.

i11600

20 SPECIAL

REFERENCE

18.3

JE SERY COMP DATE

то.

1--656

1-9488

8-18088

1-9 19

1--10 91

PREVIDUS CIVILIAN GOVERNMENT SERVICE

cond

0 - NO PATHIONS SERVICE

1- HO B8L28 IN SASICE

132013

RETIREMEN DAVA

COoR

31. SEPARATION

T26. NOOTES. 25

DATE DE SIBTH

01/28115

32. CORRECTION CÁRGELLATION LATA

но.

DA.

v8.

EOO DATA

37. LONG (OMP.

'SAlE

DA.

CARLEN (ATIGORY

CODE

CAA, BIST

PROY, 114P

C00t

ViGLI MEALTH iNDURANCE

HEALTH INS. CODE

1-- TES

42. LEANE CAT.

PORRa 2 RICUTIO

coor

FEDERAL TAA DATA

TAR EXEMPTONS

1-- TIS

3 - #0

46

AUSITiORi CONTRGI CERTICAPON '

3-3-67

GROUP

д-д+

1132

USE PREVIOUS EDI!IONI

.ras

SECREY

DATE SIGNED

NAR 1357

13.

SECURITY

#1Q. 40.

38. S01

40. SOCIAL SECURITE NO.

STATE TAX DATA

coDe

INO MAI STAIR 6008

DATE APPROVED

3/3/63

(4)

---

## Page 22

14-00000

, When Pliled Ia)

29 Septeader 1966

Maxold F. Swinson

MEMORANDUM FOR:

THROUGH

SUBJECT

: C1os, 038, Prankfurt

: Notification of Designation as a Participant in the Organization

Retirement and Disability System

REFERENCE

: Book Dispatch 5096 dated 12 August 1065

1. You have been found to be qualified as a participant in the Organization Retirement

and Disability Systein and have been so designated effective 25 Beptember 1966.

2. Although such designallon under present statutes is viewed favorably by most persons,

the regulation governing this retirement system gives the Indlvldual the right to appeal such

a determination If he doems the destgnatlon adverse to his best interests.

In order that this

technical requirement may be satisfied, you are hereby notified of your right to appeat. An

appeal with reasons therefore must be

received in Headquarters within 60 days of the date of

this memorandum or acceptance of designation will be assumed.

Any questions that you may

have in connection with your designation that cannot be answered by referring to referenced

Book Dispatch should be forwarded to Headquarters.

3. We belleve that the benefits of the Organization Retirement System are superlor to the

beneftts of the Civil Service Retirement System.

However, there are a few situations in which

an employee at the time of retirement may have so many years of service (almost 37) that he

would receive a higher annuity under the Civil Service System. Because of this, the policy

decision has been made that a participant in the Organization System who would receive a

higher annuity under the Civil Service System may, not later than one year prior to his retire-

ment, apply to be removed from our system and transferred to the Civil Service System.

you should not anticipate is contingency as a factor in deciding whether you rigard foug

designation as a participant adverse to your best interests.

SECRET

---

## Page 23

SECRET

le dori talled las

REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION

and i lies- 1 1931--5910610)

016229

SWINGON, HAROLD F.

MATURI DO PERSONNEL ACTION

DESIGNATION

AS A PARTICIPANT IN THE

CIA RETIREMENT AND DISABILITY SYSTEM

* 10 ca

a. BUNDS

Ce 10 c8

• ORGANILATIONAL DISIGNATIONS

DAY PREPARLO

LIFETIVE DATE REQUESTED

000N9*

Dar

BRAB

09 1 25 / 66

SIMANCIAL ANALY

CHARGEA

7136-2070

10. LOCATION DA OPFICIAL STATION

25 August 1966

I CATEGORY DO EMPOTENT

REGULAR

PL 88-643 Sect. 203

DDP /EE

TI POSITION TIREd

T7 POSITION NUMBER

PRAIKTURE, GERMANY

18 CAMELE SERVICE DESIGNATICN

TA CLASSPICATION SCHIDUIR (6,5, I.D. al:).

IS OCCUPATIONAL SERIES

TO GRACE ARD STEP

1.5

18 RIMASXS

3

EMPLOYEE WILL RECFIVE NOTIFICATION FROM THE DIRECTOR OF PERSONNEL OF THIS

DESIGNATION AND RIGHT OF APPEAL TO THE DIRECTOR OF CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE

18A SIGNATURE DI REQUESTING OSPICIAL

DATE SIGNED

TAS SIGMATURE ON CARFER SERVICE APPROVING OFFICER

To ACTION 20

IMMOr 21

CODE

OFFICE (00ING

NUMERIC

ALPIRASIFIC

SPACE BILOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE

O% THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

28 MOGIES 3S

D6 GATE OF GRADE

MII LEPRES

Da.

18.

20 SPECIAL

ATHERENCE

30

BE1:B1MEM? DATA

coca

110 10

35 0l1

PEIFERINCE

cost

SOUP DATE

8-8085

TI7 10NG COME GOT

0a.

(ABILE CATECORY

coct

1-889

8 - 10 B1

PREVIOUS CIVILIAN GODERNMENT SERVICE

CAN 81SN

PrOr 1129

10

1co0g

REGUL MERLIN INSEDANCE

0 - 811012

TaRALin INS 6008

~P1)

1O SOCIAL SECURITE NO

PIDERAL TAN DATA

CODE

(OCE

NO, PAS AAELPTIONS

SPANE TA8 OA7A

60C8

BAN B868

2-. ASLAM NE SANICE, 1655 TRAD D MIARS)

2- ORLAR 18 SERVILE OCRE INDO 3 PISTS:

POSITION CONTROL CERTIFICATION

- 8E5

10BM ABACUTED

1 - 5751

7=00

3 -во 1152

USE PREViOUS PRITION

00. 8-9.68

AS OF APPPOVAI

2-3ü-6

Disit"

F-a SECRET

DAlE APPRONED

See mero signed by

22 A06

BLATHeR 1818

1€*

---

## Page 24

S-E-CaR-E=T

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20505

TO

: Harold F. Swenson

SUBJECT: TDY in the Dominican Ropublic

Most of you who went down to the Dominican Republic

departed with so much speed.and so little ceremony

that

there was no time to explain

the importance and urgency

of your assignments.

Now that you have served there

during the

crisis,

the importance

of the task necds no

embellishment from

tribution

Us,

but you should know that the con-

of the augmented Station was decisive in shaping

the policies and actions

of the government and in avoiding

several major mistakes.

For weeks after the April revolu

tlong

our Station reporting was literally the only source

of information that the United States had

on the role of

Communism among the rebel forces and on conditions outside

the capital.

Many fine things were done in the Station and in the

hinterland by all of you.

Manning the check-points

under

fire, flying to remote and hostile villages, moving tons

of supplies through the gauntlet of the communications

Line

toiling over midnight reports, and keeping open our

country's only commo

link . all

these things were common-

place.

The dedication, discipline, and routine of our

personnel placed them in a class apart.

To the sense of pride and

accomplishment you must

already feel, I want

to add the gratitude and

admiration

of the DDP and of the Agency.

Achaidlet

Richard Helms

Deputy Director of Central Intelligence

---

## Page 25

SECRET

if ton triled las

¡CAT ORIGARED

REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION

1 SIALAL NUMBER

16 tina 1005

016229

3. NAPURE OF PERSONNEL ACTION

REASSEGNUENT

Y TO Y

· TO CF

• PUNDE

Ce 10 V

D. ORGANILATIONAL DESIGNATIONS

DDP LE FORLIGN FIELD

GERMANY STATION

COORDINATION & SUPPORT SISE, FRANKFURT

WAR PLANS BRANCHI

I1 POSITION MIne.

EFFECTIVE DATE REQUESTEC

07102 65

COST CENTER NO CHANGE.

ABLE

6

0139-2070

10. LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATICA

CARGORY OF EMPOTMENT

REGULAR

(15)

FRANAPURT, GERMAN!

12 POSITION NUMBER

LET CARER SERVICE DESIGIVATION

OPS OFFICER

14. CLASSIPICATION SCHEDUIE (805. 1.A, e6.)

GS

18. A9MARK9

ETD- 2 July 65

I cy- ayrority.

cy-Payroll

FROM:

IS ORTURATIONAL SERIES

3436

18 GRADE AND STEP

D

17. SALARY ON RATE

(2)

2156.01

15 4

$ 15170.

Pretti"

DDP WI

WE/S.A

OFFICE OF THE CAISF

WASHl., D.C.

le 716165

1110)

12T

CONCUR

Va/TERCANEL

18A SIGMATURE ON EQUESTING OPPRCIAS.,

SALE SiGNED

188. SIGNATURE OF CARTER SERVICE STAT

INOD

Margaret E/m

senner, C/22 Personnel

18. ACTION

20. EMPLOY.

- SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL!

OFFICE COOING

TEa. INTEGREE

CODE

CODE

28. MOCIRS

DATE OF BIRTH CR

NUMERIC

3.7

AIPMABETH

CODE

14.544

R701

29. SPECIAL

07 125 15

78.

#TE EXPIRES

30.

RITIREMAT DE'

31. SEPARATION

1X so

ня.

Reparters

32. CORRECTION. CAMCFILARON DATA

DATA CODE

no.

DA.

FOD DATA

2• bar

JS. VET. PREFERINCE

36.

CARLER CATEGORY

39.

FEEL ALALIN INSURGENS

COOE

Q- 107E

CODE

1-3 P1.

YOUR

1D- WA:VER

TAGALTH INS. COON

2--10 87.

I - TES

41

PREVIOUS GOVERNMENT SERVICE DATA

«?

HERE it"

CODE

43.

FEDERAL TAX DATA

casE

AN HO PRETIONS SEATICE

NO. TAB IXIMPTIONES

PORA LURCUTTO

I - NO BALAN IN SERVICE

2- BELAM IN SERVICE (LISS THAN D VERSI

1 - 191

D-ARTAR IN SERVICE (BONE TRAS I TEARS)

2-80 1

AS. POSITION CONTROL CERTIICATION

06/65

10 OP. APPROVAL

DASE SIGNED

PR.

33.

SECURIST

34. 528

80. SOCIAL SECURITY NO

STATE LAX DATA

Deft

AppROvED

Trom wH

/ 3)

ОЙМ 1152

6-23

USE PREVIOUS EDITION

SECRET

11182

---

## Page 26

14-00000

SECRET

i too tried las

A REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION

31/229

3 MATURE DE RESURiNEL ALTIRI

CJ7RSIOY 5A2% ESR STAITS

* TO Y

CP TO V.

• ORGAPILATITGAL CESIGNATIONS

223/e

WH/C

Office

of the chier

IS POSITION TITLE

OPS JEPIOR (SAS)

A. CASSFICATON SENECURE I GAS. AB. eR:)

GS

IB. REMARX$

1? cune 1965

SCATTENTI OF EMPLOYMENT

RUTIAR

PRECHVE DATE MIQUASTIO

06

165

COST CENTERNO SMARGE.

5135-1162

TO LOCATION ON OPPICIAL STATUA

(1.5)

14)

(P)

is acron

MeNTAL SERIES

0135.01

Washington, P.C.

12 POSITION NUMBER

1105

18. GRADE ANC SIER

25 (4)

13 CATERE SERVICE DESIGNATION

D

17 SALATO CA ZATE

313279

Subject resi med from the State Desartrent eifective CO3 5 cune 1955.

ROBBIES. CASTIC

• 600%

DA'E SIGNEO

I38 SIGNATURE OF CAREER SEATTE

/Fars.

17/10:65

DIFIC COCIOS

ISPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNE :

Sands

ZJ. INTEGREZ

ALFISABETIC

(00E

COCT

DAIE OF BIRTH

(00f

2÷13

RETIREMENT CATA

10008

7 14/41

113 2en)

Her I can or di

ca

a Q.

WTE EXPIRES

04128115

(OA8SC710N- CAACELLATION CATA

но.

FET. PREFCUSINE

REFERENT

84

3A. SURY SCHO BATT

De

133

1 - 6361

B.-FICA

JI. SEPARATIOS

DATA CODE

EOD DATA

39 SECURITO

R:Q. 10

34. SEX

37

LONG. CORD BATT

38.

CAREER (8T50R7

cue miss

PROY TEMP

41.

cOct

FEGLI MERITH INSERADNE

COOt

To MINE

-1a1ta mis. 22328

1- TES

301142 SACRIT 40

2-10 07

FRETIOUS EOTEREMERI SIENCE CATA

Ti- DO NEGE :9 SETTICE

2- BALAS dE SETTiLE ICESS TRAS I PERES)

I RAN A SITTIE: MORT TANA I TELESI

IS POSIRON CONTRY CTRTPICATIA

82. LEASE CAI

*103e

BEDERAL TAR DATA

ARM PRECUTIO, COO

NO. TAX BRIMATIONS

2-a0

DEM BEAUTI

STAYS iNS DATA

come .

I to state coDe

dE OP APPROVAL

6-22-65 H/T

235 1152

USE PENIS EDITORi

SECRET

---

## Page 27

SECRET

: 12 apa a rilrod loi

* REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION

20220

I LATURE OR PRSONAL ACTION

PASSIN T

У TO Y

• FUNDS

Ce 10 v

• ORGANIZATIOMAL DESIGNATIONS

WH/sA.

Offiec of the Chief

EFFECTIVE DATE REQUESTIO

політи

is 1 27 1 29

COST CENTER NO. CHANGE

ABLE

1195-1162

10. LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATIONI

11. POSITION TITLE

PJ. ATTAC'S

OPA: 277003R

(SAS)

(0)

L4 CLASSPICATION SCHEDULE (SOS, 1 F8, 886.)

13 OCCUPATIONAL SERIES

20

2136.01

12 POSITION NUMBER

1103

1oGRA GRAND STEP.

03

15°Ch!

18. REMARKS

"2i por Vil 272) (c) (h) 11213: 1?00.

from tre, 536

2 antir

1 CATEGORY OF ENROTEINI

893212

1J CAREER SETINCE DESIGALATIONI

:1P. SALART OR RaiE

gl", 1??

141de

DATE SIGNED

188. SIGNATURE OR CAELE SERVICE APPRENTIC OPTE

17120=2

C/

21 MAr

__ SPACE

BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL!

19. ACTIN 20. 1APOY. 21.

OFFICE CODING

82. STATION

1008

(O0F

CODE

23. IRTEGREE

24. HOOTIS.

. 100€

(002

NUMERIC

AIPMABATIC

| 26

daTE OF ERADE

то."

cA.

32110

28.

WTE EXPIRES

51657

Z:'.

N

29. SPECIAL

REFERINCE

30.

1-158

me 335 A

2713

RETIREMENT DATA

CODE

31. SEPARATION

DATA CODE

32. COERECTION CRRCELLATICO CATA

EOD DATA

ESTB5T66

IS VET. PESHMENCE

COOt

TreE

0a.

ya.

,84

36. SERV. COMP, DATE

37. 10мG. СОмУ CATE

ra.

CAN NESS

PPOS TEMP

CARLEN CATEGORY

| CODE

cooe

FEELI NEAITH iNSURANCE

HEALTH INS: COOP

41.

1-9 PT

1-50 Pt.

PREVIOUS GUYCKOMENT SERVICE DATA

82. LEAFT CAT.

O- NO PRIVIOUS SIPRICE

2-BELAR IS SENTICE (LESS TMAN 3 TEARS)

DO BALAN IN SEATICE (MORE SHAN I TEARS)

A9. POSTION CONIRLY CERTIFICATION

08/26/6521K

FORM 1152' USE PREVIOUS EDITION

FEDERAL TAX DATA

FORM PRECUTED, CODE

I-Y85

? -100

MO. IRA ENIMPTONS

MORM A RECUTES

I- FES

2 - 710

OP APPROVAL

SECRET

%/5/6s

DATE OF LEI

SECURITY

BEO. NO.

34. SEX

SO SOCIAL SECURITY NO

Isode l

MON STATE COMe

---

## Page 28

14-00000

SECRET

raten fillod fal

NAME, OF EMPLOTEE (LOSE-FirE-MiSSIO)

NAME AND RELATIONSHIP OF DEPENDENT.

Svenson, Harold !.

Self

65-381

There is on file in the Benefits and Counseling Branch, Benefits and

Services Division, Office of Personnel, an Official Disability Claim

File on the above named employee (or his dependent*) for an illness,

Injury, or death incurred on _2 Septomber 1964

This notice should be filed in the employee's Official Personnel Folder

as a permanent cross-reference to the Official Disability Claim File.

DATE OF NOTICE

21: +54

40-5, 1076 438 8

NOTICE OF OFFICIAL DISABILITY CLA'M FILE

SECRET

18-21-986

---

## Page 29

ECRET

MENORANDUN FOR:

SUBJECT:

Chief. Transactions & Records Branch

Office of Personnel

State Department Promotion of

SHENRY. Harold

1. The Department has Informed this office that

effective 12 Apr11 19c1

_ subject employee was promoted

from FSR-1. $14,035 1O ISA-3. $14,265.

2. It is requested that this notice be placed in

the official folder of abe employee concerned.

/s/l

Chief. Official Civilian Branch, CCS

SECRET

---

## Page 30

td-inotden

SECRET

7,:1 ci

wsre.

REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION

4 Egbruarg 1963

AT.

He ts tois

Aaur (daap.pirsd-@iAdle.j

016229

SAENSON, Harold F.

MAPUNI DE BIOSCHHEL

ACTIOd

REASS TGNYONT

•. FUNOS

Y TO V.

co To"

CESIGRATIONS

• 10 cr

CE .TO CE

A.EFEICTII

781

163

COST CENPER DO. CHARCA.

ABLE

3132-220021900

16.

LOCATe3»

CATENONY OF EMPLOYMEN!

RFOUL AR

ITCAL

AUTHORITY (COOP"

ed Dy

Offico ol Pornornod)

ORGANI.

DDP

Spocial Alfairs Staff

FI/CI Pranch

STATION

liashington, D.to

88.8OS61109

POSITISO RUMOLA

1a.

CADIER

SERVICE DESIGNATION

ATTACHZ POL OFF

OPS OFIC2R

0673

D

1A, CLASSIFICATICN SENADULE 1 GS,

LB, OfC.D 1S. OCCUPATIONAL SERIES

FSR

9L" "g

STEP

GS

" $13,310

0136.01

15 (2)

75,045

Internal 8oa3slersent frum Drp/SAs/Oer-ChJos, Daco, d663 Azay

kecozcod

CSPD

by

Rese

"AAsel!!

E BEQUESTING DEFICIAI

DAPE SEGHEE

1ana211a

LOUIS H, MNSTANG, C/SAS/Perse 1172:

OFF8218

14, AC7108 5E, [lo:

CGDE

CLEA

stAc't

BF1.02W

FOR KXCLUSIVE

ist

sackeisavin

CITICE OE KENNEL

100'6;

F2. 5711 :4

APPRQVING DATE SIGNEO

67.4- 63

sa:: ff .l.

37

N. DTE EED 1

MBEU| SAS

1752(3

/

104.38115

003.

30. 518

FOD DAT

55,

CoCI

PAEFARERIE E 3 SITE. SEMi

Cimp, DATE

48.

19. CAPIIE iAtISNNT

M82r8.Y

9500/:1655

I0C1

BEITIFES EOÇA S'

ta ts..

: ∞ *.*

?.tfau! cat.

ECOE

* 000 $ PHi)

-•* 1 +=9)

&3+

DATE

AFTASVED

: 152

3/07/63

1:62e2oa

6711-63

SECRET

---

## Page 31

14-00000

SECRET

(Then Filles po)

PREPARID

REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION

,10t."

SERIAL

THROBBETA

RATURE ON PERSONNEL ACTION

•. EFFICTINE CATE DEUESTIO)

$.

CATEGORY OF SMPLOYIERT

• T0 Y

• TO CF

151

162

8. COST CISTER NO. OMANOR.

8. FUNDS

i.í:"

AUTHORITY (Complored By

Office no forsonnell

C8 90 CE

•. ONGANIRATIONAL DEBIGHATIONS

10. LOCATION DE OFFICIAL STATION

"ee daren

11. POS!!19N TITLR

1:.

19. CAREER SERVICE DESIUNATION

1A. CHASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (OS, LB. ORC.)| TS. OCCUPATIONAL SEMIT:

16.

GRADE ASO STEF

C3

REMAINS

11264.21

7. 10)

17. SALARY OR PATE / 3540

• 34,00

CSED

40419::

Der Bemon

I cy-cority

¡STING CERICIAL

DATE SIGNED

al Carry. 240167901

SETHF LEFRE DE PERSONNEL

scor

21181501

trat

118. 2: 1 303

C¢*:

57

Pa.

l:11t0|

SPI:

GISEMENTS

180

75i.

CoCs

85613

5001

Pa. -97

35.

ascA

P91818E9:

11? 1129;.

18.

8. 16"1

1

PEAN: CA!.

1 0 16418

10/216.2

ROD DATA

DO. CANCIA CAPEGERS

CAR/REST

12010..9.9

19955

7.83

•PROVING DATE SIGNED

6425/62

136, SER

3[0.

icel

4088 1152

SECREL:.

JATE APPROVED

1960562

(8)

---

## Page 32

14-00000

requests for tetonel

action o related material

prior to 00t 1962..

---

## Page 33

iran,

unsaneliyed bus pregule

and

iver form

---

## Page 34

SECRET

NOTIFICATION OF, ESTA.

SIMENT-OR CANCELLATION

OF OFFICIAL COVER BACKSTOP

CHIEF, PERSONNEL OPERATIONS DIVISION

TO:

(Chock)

CHIEF, COUTRACT PERSOLEL DIVISION

CHIEF, OPERATING COMPOLLIE (FOr at1gn)

27 June 1968

FILE. NUMBER

4081

CNPLOVEE NUMBER

• HOT. AVAILARLE

ID CARD NUMBER

DACKSTOP ESTABLISNED

CALITY-SUPPORT-STATE

FICIAL

COVER

DISCONTINUEO

REF:

SUBJECT RATTRENSIT -DEBRISFING

UNIT

SWERSON, HAROLD I•

KEEP ON TOP OF FLE WHILE cOvER tErrect.

ESTABLISIMENT

OF OFFICIAL COVER BLOCK RECORDS

(opmeRo 10-800-112

CANCELLATION OF OFFICIAL COVER UNBLOCK RECOROS

A.

TEMPORARILY FOR

EFFECTIVE DATE COB

•. CONTSNUING AS OF COB

DAYS

20 Jan 55

SUHM 1O-ORN 642 TO CHANGE LIMITATION CATEGORY:

SWAM TO OM 642 TO-CHANGE LIMITATION CATEGORY.

ASCERTAIN THAT-

_W-Z BEING ISSULO.

OK.

RETURN ALL OFFICIAL DOCUMENTATION TO ECS.

DO MOT WRITE IN THIS BLOCK • FOR COS INTERMAR USE ONLY

SONER CONSTANT CHANGE AFFECTING THIS

SUBMIT FORM

SESHONSFORM: 1923

FRANSFERRING COVER.

CONCUR

IN

I SSUANCE

AGE

MACS

1GN CARD

ON CARO.

REMARKS

Ja

Subject 1a to Indicate CIA as place of

employment for the entire period of Agency

employment, and not to reveal specific

AIDUTION!

- Jul 65 Ega/State

ON DOP OF ALL

to dra ice

+00

a1/nch

Games it Turkin

Cas=!

409-20-891

---

## Page 35

SECACT

01619

a.ain.

vitte!

sco: 23 Apr 1912

. 9=

GARGANITY

Casato.

said

110 Jan 1959

Cirried

"Farlud.

11020.)

DI Jan 1958

Die

M1R2S

STATUS

#A58

0 28681P 50% .

Erano 16

TI 0S

ConE

• 1 Tot

• 95. 8 A

PRIVESSIONAL TAST DASE

oRa L5s5

Nonc

N7a9

tanterner 1533-35 Fallite

school varaticr

1935-4d t0os, conin, SucidirE

19-41-cá; 1905-447

Deos os jussia, àoa, Do, 811, Sonito dacrica

i Agitatt

1964045. N1118333509106

Us diarina Corpag. Cage

dio Conbar intelligeaco.

1947-53

Seco Giando 011 Co, Cl, Suissdono, Voicauila - Div Sug of Ind Ich for

mastcon Venczuola

31853-54" Sears'Roevich & Co, Chicaso :". Staff. Assiatant for Security and Persounel

1954.28

deistesa Collega, Nie

ode, Social stanico

2abo01

6056: 57

doas dig 1559%

1505

French

ist 1962

F3b 1543

Say 1905

Tu1

1965

1Ç67

2º5x 1965

Jul 1968

05%.01

coSe

013.6

=5

0136.01

0136.01

DE? /25,G.SD /Mar?15r/Sr,CubenOpsFrankrurt

Cijo.01

DD2/EUR/CS/CSE/CE/ST, CubarOps,

0135.02

DDo/wus/Centicz/GerSta/wishrear.op

Rotirement (Vol) Unser CIA

Retirement & Disability. Syste

PROPILL RIVOLEGA

I-1D 16816:10

VIRiSIED

NO

PROFILE. 300S10

22 A. 1958

10:05 1) 980

SECRET

---

## Page 36

+8+81088-8184103

TENCON, Harold Francia

19h09 22/102 19)

DIOGRARIIG PROFILE (PART 2)

6 20 28 /

CATE 00 ВIДТН

tor 19is

SWENSA!

HARD T6ASi3S.

PERCACE OUTGONE ANOIDA FUELO

IDENTITY OF DININ DOCUMENTS WHICA AMOULO DE REVILED

Apprecintion 1965 fros the DOI for services roadored durlos tho cilala la the

Dominican Republic.

AP. DATE RAVICTO

22 Aug 1968

вона по.

• •8O 8, 1200 (PART 2)

PROFILE

/hc

10B0 (PARE SI SECRET

PROFILE

---

## Page 37

14-00000

SECRET

SECTION A

1. Rod, ME:

SENSON,

B. OFFICIAL POSITION TITLE

Ops Officor

CHEER TIRE OF APPOINTMENT

TAMIAMI

FITNESS REPORT

(F 1542)

Harold

GENERAL

(Middle)

F.

28 Apr 15

016229

A. GHADE

3. 30

GS -15

•, CUNHEAT STATION

Frankfurt

DDP/111/Cuba

10. CHECH LI TYPE OF REPONT

• Section Cl

11. DATE REPORT QUE IN O.%0.

31 112s: 1267

SECTION B

W - Wack

¡a, REFONTINO PERIOD (FrOM- 10-,

1 20r1l 1966 - 31 barch 1967

PERFORMANCE EVALUATION

¡Performence cançes iram molly inadequare lo slightly loss than sarisloctory.

A rating, in phis cateçory requiros

positive remedial action.

The nature of the action could congo from counseling, to furrhar training, la piaeing or

probation, to coassignment

or to saperotioh.

Describe action rohan ol proposod in Soction C.

A - Adoriots

Performonce meals ail requiromones. It is entirely sotisfoctory and la charectorized neither by daficiency noe

ancellenco.

P - Proficiani

Portormance is moro than sariifoctory, Desirad rosulta are boing producod in a prolicient mannor.

§ • Strong

Performance is characterized by osceprional proficioricy,

0 .. Outstending:

Performanco is so exceptional in solarion to roquiromonts of the work and in comparison to the performance of

ophors doing similer work os to morrant ssocial rocognition.

SPECIFIC DUTIES

Lise up to ain of tho mass imporeans specirie curios performed during tha raring poriod. Insors raring lotor which best cescrises the

manner in which engioyoo periorms EAcri saocitic duly.

Considor ONLY affectivanoes in porformonco of shes duty.

All empiogoos

with suporvisory cosponsibilitias MUST do rared on sheir ability to superviso findiculo numbor of ampiogods puservinoda.

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 1

Spotting and rocruiting of agents to cover Cuban target

S

SPECIFIC OUTTALE

LET TEA

S

Agent handling

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 3

Running office at Frankfurt Base

SPECIFIC DUTY NO.4

Economic use of funds and equipment

SPECIFIC.-DUTY NO, $

S

SPECIFIC DUTY NO

ETTE

OVERALL PERFORNANCE IN CURRENT POSITION

"ano into account armything about the employeo which influnces his alfectivenass in his current position such as por

spacirio dutios, productiviag.

condues on les, cooparativonass, portinent parsonal trairs or hadirs ani

parrievier liarationa or lalanis.

Bosod as tou knomiodço -uf employee's avorail porlormance dutiro ino raring periora:

I placo the letter in ine rosing box coresponsing lo ine storament which most accuratoly toflocis his lovel al performance

FOS* 45

USE DREVIOUSEOITII

SECRET

$

---

## Page 38

-CHON C

apatrione secretis de ordenases conrón cruteù los cuereos poston árcpiro dà deudro peosperero pare relagonibro lo

joomold deciamonde, Sonte secations mude dir ongonsene of work desformare. Pye esencia un joe toming. Comment

no dereço longango competenco, il regueró loi carrone pusationo amplify co cojo, circirco jarri tri diceon la lo provide desa

un the ge só cerecono soar, Crudamen end futice mede hee commonted on, il applictina ll entro apodo no núcura lo comicio

Seceas Ca queach o soporuri shere ot paper.

During the past yoar Ni. Swenson has continuod to fulfill his

autios as the Sonior Cuban oporations

officer in Europo ir 2

supcrior

192121202°•

Ho has shoun tiroloss eneray in travolling and

workirg all

possiblo opcrational leads; sound and protossional judgnoat in

landling agont contacts and nootings and a onthusiastic imagination

in devoloping information

and accoss

to new potontial targots.

dir. Swenson has beca groupt and thorough

in his csponso to all

roquests and roquironcios tion loadquartors and prudont in the uso

of Agoney funds and equipnont.

The running of his offico and the conduct of his official

business from Frankfurt Base was describod is follows in 2

dispatch

from tho COb datod 6 Marca 1967.

should bo notod that in

opinion Subject's porformance has been outstanding.

Mo handles

assignnents pronptly ano in an oxtrencly oificiont manner with a

minimum of detailod guidance from Hleadquartor's."

SECTION D

2.

ESTINS EMPLOYSI

NAS DEEN

ADER MY SUPERVISION

DATE

12

CERTIFICATION AND COMENTS

DY EMPLOYEE

T CERTIFY, TRAT I HAVE SEEN SECTIONS A, B, AND COF THIS REPORT

STGNATURE OF EMPLOVEE

BY SUPERVISOR

"IF TAINEPORT HAS NOF DECN SHOWN TO EMPLOYEE, DIVE EXPLANATION.

This report has not boch shown to Ni. Swenson due to

his

absence from Headquarters

"OFFICIAL TITLE OF SUPERVISOR

DC/IH/COG

BY REVIEWING OFFICIAL

15 188 1937

CONMENTS OF REVIEWINO OFFICIAL

I concui •

BATE

TOFFIGIAL TIFLE OF REVIENING

OFFICIAL

1 6 138 137

TYPED ON PRINTEO NAME

ASO SIGNATURE

I. Piores

SECRET

---

## Page 39

• SECRET

filre.!

FITNESS REPORT

010220 -

LECTION A

1. A 2, b11.

SWENSON,

irirais

harold

GENERAL

illing

F.

2S Apr 15

" 3. 56.1.

G5-15

OUS

Officer

DDP/TaL/Cuba

CHE CAN TYRS" OF REPORT

Frankfurt

PEMPORARY

His Maritone.to i there 1414

F. REPONTING PEHIOS (PRINTO

1. DATE REPORT QUE

1 April 1965 - 31 March 1966

SECTION 8

W• Weak

PERFORMANCE EVALUATION

Perfoemango fonços from wholly inadequate to slightly loss than satisfoctory.

A saring in this coregory requires

positivo remedial action. The nature of the acsion could renge from counseling, lo further training, to placing on

prodation, to roosaignment or to separatior.

Describo action takon or proposod in Soction 6.

A • Adequate

Performiunce meota oll requirements. Il is entiraly satisfactory and is choroctorised neither by deficiency nor

escallanco.

p • Proficions

Parlormando is maro than sarisioctory.

Dosipod resuirs are doing producad in a proficient mannor.

§ - Strona

Performanca is sharoceriaed by exceptional proficioncy.

O • Quatending

Partermanso is so escoational in relation to requiromanis of the work and in comperison to she performanco of

othere doing simuler work os lo marians spacio! racognit.an.

SPECIFIC DUNES

Cist up po six ol stio most importans apocific durios porformed during sho

rating period. Insor rating lotter which bost deseriaos ahe

mannor in which omployee perisms EACH specitie duty.

Consider ONLY ellestivenesa in performance of phat duty

All employoes

¡mith supervisory responsibilirion MUST be rared on sheir obility lo superviso (indicato numbor al omployano nuperriaoda

[SPECIPIG DUTY NO. T

RAY!

LETTE,

Spotting and recruiting of Cuban agents

SPECIFIE DUTYNO. E

Agent handling

S

LETTER

SPECIFIC DUTY NOT

Running offico at Frankfurt Base *

S

SPECIME OUTY SO. A

Economie uso of funds & equipment

S

SPECIPIC DUTY NO. 9

SOFCIFICDUTYMDA

FATTEN

OVERALL PERFOSMANCE IN CURRENT POSITION

canduce on jos, cooporativonoss, pailinan:

personal traits de hobirs, and

_articuloe limitations or iaie.ris.

Besou on your knomiedjo di employoe's ovarall performance during. tho eating pariod.

¡alaco the ionor in ino ratin; toriorasponding lo tie arorement wnich most uccustaly raliacis his lovel ol portormonce.

45

LOITIONs.

SECRET

LETTE!

---

## Page 40

14-00000

parali perboraonedo frago 8oigos91080 erreis iss

s darono insegarago comorendo, il roguirri in datono posteroid. Anally de esarain iulinga cinema

in sirilon 3 to provida bes:

sapre une alcionda doso, escipone and dacise must be coccoledon at deruritle li paleo spure io noacied lo compiere

scarione, artoci a seporare shote el Furero

dir'.

Swenson his beon assigned to tho Familurt Baso as a "SChiO1

Conn opcitions offici since July 195u.

tio rator has lad two briei

acotings with

ti Skinson in Europe duriny this period

and has boen in

a position to nonitor and

quide sono of his leacarters-directed

operationil

activities in

various countries in surope.

sr. Suonson is a maturo, esperienced doponible officer wich a

wide rango of espericice

in intelligence nori.

Ho has spccialiecd in

Cuban opciations sinco

iato 1932 ind his present activities in Europe

principally concem the spotting did

assessmont of Cubai targots,

recruitmont biiches ind inning

igchts.

lo is also available to assist

European stations on cuban mitters oither

thoir request or on Head-

quartors dircetio..

Ho las dono a professional job 1n

evOry respcct

in carrying out his responsibilities.

Ile has boch prompt

rosponding

to lioacquattors' requests and requirements,

thorough in carrying

out

his assignmonts and cloar and accurite in his coporting.

work on

Cuban natters in furopo has significantly excondod the Agency's

coveingo of this priority targot.

Tho rating given ki.

Swenson on Specific Duty

No. 3 (*) of this

report is based

on the comments of COB, Frankiurt, containod 1n

EGOT-29131, a copy

of which

is attached.

During the period under review ii.

Swenson has shown good

judgmont in the utilization of agency funds ind oquipnoni.

SECTION D

CERTIFICATION AND COMMENTE

SY SUPLOYES

CERT.EY THATI MAVE SEEN SECTIONS A, SO ANO COS TRIS REPORT

DATE

DIGNATURE OT EMPIUTEE

EMPLOYEE MAS DECI

ViNCER MY SUPERVISION

cight

DATE

SY SUPERVISOR

TF TRIS REPORT MAS NOT GERA SPORA TO EMPIOTEC. DIVE EXPLANATION

Tais report has not beon shown to da. Swenson due

to his absence from Headcuarici's

OFFICIT TELE OF SUPEAVISON

FRESCE PRiNTEO SARi

2 2 AUG 1955

DC/Ai/ Cuba

8Y REVIENINO OFFICIAL

COMMENTS OF REVIETINO OFFI

I concur in the above rating.

Swenson's periormance

has bocn

noiked by areat initiative, & very real sense of

devorion to duty whici nas kost hir

craveling away fion

his family a great deal of the time; and by a high degree

of profossional competence.

SATE

OFFICIAL TITLE DI REVIETING DEFICIAL

17 Giảa

SECRaT

TIPES OB PRINTER DAME ATO SIGNATURR

! il!!

---

## Page 41

14-00000

SECRET

NOTIFICATION OF ESTABLISHMENT

OF OFFICIAL COVER BACKSTOP

10:

(Chach)

CHIEF, CONTRACT PERSONNEL DIVISION

CHIEF, OPERATING COMPONENT (For action)

TSD

DATE

3 August 1956

ISTABLISNEO FOR

SWENSON, Ralph A.

FILE NO.

8804

1O CARO NO.

EMPLOYER NO.

ATTH:

REF:

Form 1322 dated

OSFICIAL COVER DACHSTOP ESTABLASMED

USAERDL

3 August 1966

KEEP ON TOP OF FILE WHILE COVER IN EFFECT

Block Records:

(OPMEMO

20-800-181

a. Tomporarily foe

_doys, offective

b. Continuing, effective

EOD

Submit Form 642 to chonge limitation colegory.

(HHR 30-2)

Ascertain that Army W-2 being issued.

Книв 20-661-13

ParADO PONCE DEMAIN

Submit Form 132p. g

X4 300-2501

Change affecting his cover.

Remorks:

Cover Mistory

1962-1963

DAC/Hdgs

1963-1966

DAC/Okinawa

JB/AT

Copt

DISTRIBUTIOY:

Cames a

CES

Copy JiOS BiOS, COpy #-OL/TELSIC, CopY S-PSDIOS.

(113-20-43)

SECP-:

thing

---

## Page 42

14-00000

•PAY ADJUSTMENT IN ACCORDANCE WITH SECTIONS 212 AND 216 DF Pi 90-206 AND

EXECUTIVE

ORDER

11413 PURSUANT

AUTHORITY OF ICE AS PROVIDED IN THE CIA ACT

OF 1949. AS AMENDEDO AND ADCI DIRECTIVE DATED & OCTCAER 1962%

EFFECTIVE DATE OF PAY ADJUSTMENTI

14 JULY 1968

NAME

SWENSON HAROLD F

SERIAL. ORGN. FUNDS GA-STEP

016229 4460n CF

15-5

Oi D

SALARY

21469

NEW

SALARY

23075

---

## Page 43

14-00000

TVU: 29 JUL 68

SECRET

(When Filled 19)

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

DEF

1. SEBTAL NUMBIA

: NAMI (LESS FIRST MIDDER)

016225

SWEINSON MANOLU F

à PATURE OF ALISONNEL ACTION

RETINLMENT

(VOL) UNVER: CIA

NETINEMENT

AriN DISAUILITY SYSTEM

y 10 V

Y TO CF

FUNDS

CE TO Y

CF TO C.E

EFFECTIVE DATE

3 CAREÇORY DO EMPIOTAENT

pi 166

REGULAR

P. Pregneral Arolyars Alo

cas paris

TO CSC OR OTHER LECAL AUTMORITY

9136 2070 000660

P.L. 0ö-043

SECT 233

10 LOCATION DI OFFICIAL STATION

OROANILATONAI DESIONATIONS

JUP/EUR FOREIGN FIELD

CENTRAL REGION

GERMANY STATION

FRANKFURT BASE

WtI AREA REPRESENTATIVES

18, POSITION TITLE

FRANKFURT, GERMANY

12. POSITION NUMBLE

¡D SERVICE DESIGNATION

OPS OFFICER Wri

10478

D

TA. CLASSIFICATION SCMEDULE (GS. LB. ar.)

11S. OCCUPATIONAL SERIES

To GRADE AND STEP

PY-SALARY OR MATE

GS

0136.01

15 G

23075

18. REMATES

573974993

FIRST NAME

MANCID.

IE AND NATURE OF SEPARATION

RETIRPENT (VOL) INDE CIA

RETIRE ENT

AND DISAMITINT SYS.EM

SUMMARY OF ANNUAL AND SICK LEAVE

(MOURS)

ANNUALI

3 Balanca from pruda leuro year ended

1/13

18.68

0. Current leave your decrudi through.

7/27

10.68

INITIAL(S) 12.

APPOINTMENT DAYA

Entered on duty

TI,T

TP.T

3.

TOTAL SERVICE FOR LEAVE

Is of class is reparallel)

Yours

Montra

Subject to

3272-S 103a5. 1951 Loos An

7-31-68

No L

Coozed lo bo subroce 10 Soc. 203id)

I tene than 19 rears

_ Annuol leore Boi

SUMMARY OF HOME LEAVE

(DAYS;

1s. Date deral abroad los Me Dupores 1/20/65

, 8. Heduction in credita, of any (current year)

Karal leave toden

;10.

Solomo

360

112

172

0

1.28

1017 13. Currentbolane 080 3/31 1068-52 syS

10-12-m0n8h secrool rot...

58/17. Dotes loana used, peror 24 marats

1073

_3LL (1 HOLIUAY)

23075

18 Monthly oscruai dolo

20419. Calandor days sradis tou nons accruot dote

MILITARY LEAVE

AT. Dares during curiors calandos ro

122 Dotes during procedung colendar 1e s

ABSENCE WITHOUT PAY

22 1413

- lo

Dors

REMARKS

SCD

5/4/118

MAX: 360

13. Lump sum leone dotos:

From _0830 {/1/68. 0: 10/1/68

Furlough, Suspentran

- 110

(Hours)

16. Carried sorest by:

ignolurel

- PANZULI CUTES

(Title)

-X2607

Telephone!

IJ During loote year in stret separare

28

During 8140 11619018 100-9119

perred mish bozon on t37-68

25. During 12 month Me EXCludi pal. 0d Idares:

PT 8

CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSIOS

Stanelarol turm 11t0

Nisember 1909

1180-108

RECORD OF LEAVE DATA TRANSFERRED:

---

## Page 44

BIAL Pen

H/t

100044:15%

1227S-

0169.9

OWENSCA MAROLO F

€ 4

301:

Solen

S'sE

ADI

NGILVSK

1*

1820•858 08/10/66 65.151

A521,855 14/07168

CERTIFICATION AND AUTABITICATITR

NE EXCESS IWOPO

IN PAT STATUS AT END OF WAITINO PERIOO

EWCE STATUS AT END OF WAITING PERIOD

CLERKS INITIALE.,

P94 360 E baroniona

влах

PAY CHANGE NOTIFICATION

All ado

FL::

1:13

SECRET

(08hen Filled In)

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

C:CR

1. SERIAL NUMBER

¿ MAME ILAST APSI MA.DOIL;

C16223

3. NATURE OF PEESCRATEL ACTION

ENTE SIS:.

IF F.TA

i. TE:

1J-2

1: 5'

• LANCORE OF IMPOYMENT

=1:119

ROLLAR

8. CSC OR OTNER LEGAL AUTHORITY

FUNDS

CF TO V

V TO CF

CF TO CF

•. ORGANIZATIONAL DESCRAFDAS

13.

10 LOCA: ON OF OFFICIA, SIXTON

FIEL

LEi TRAL

caring

FRA:

F2S

silico

W: AREA

GECREORITATIES

II. POSITION TITLE

FARGUET

12. POSTER VisiR

13. SERVICE DESIGNATIOA

AFFICER

16. CLASSIFICATION SENEOULE (GS 1$ oR)

33

3 OCCUPATIONAL SERiES

TO GRADE ANA STEP

I SALARY OF RATE

IB. REMARAS

11÷

2: 53

" ACTION 20 Easy

SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF INSONNEL

DACT CORING

Coc:

TO DATE DE GRADE T2F DATE OF LET

1о

SENTE EXPRES

PERIENCE

RET RE MEN? DATE

1: 37

ЗA SET

09161023

IS LET PEIFEPENCE

1o0e

1A SEE COM DATE

Y INNE TONS CAPT IS CATA CARROT

1004

8910

4701

FODUATA

THis NSURANCE

May to mas (574

33

SECURITY

REQ

Pure

¡E SOCIAL SECURITY NO

AT THYOUS CIA GO ON INTE

• CAT

care

5008

HE BRAS SO ETHER

THAT HAE A 1 9

1 8298A 1 525409 ME PA, 0;

Cem10--79

jESERS: TAI DU'R

sive

STATE TAl DaTA

SENATURE UP OTHER AUTHEN MATES

620)

W911

$.

---

## Page 45

14-00000

ADJUSTMENT IN ACCORDANCE WITH

SALARY SCHEDULES OF PL

90 9 210

"PAY

DC!

A S

PROVIDED

THE

CIA ACT

OF

19&9.

PURSUANT

TO AUTHORITY AF

AS AMENDED, ANE A DCI DINECTIVE DATEO 9 OCTOBER 1962,

EFFECTIVE NATE OF PAY ADJUSTMENTI

8 OCTOHER

1967

NAME

SWENSON HAROLD F

SERIAL OMGN. FUNDS GROSTÉP SALARY SALARY

016229.

44

600

CF

GS 15 5

$19, 978

$20. 856

---

## Page 46

14-00000

SECRET

13300 Fuled la!

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

I. SERIAL HUMBLA

2 HARd TASt FIRST 810010)

016229

SEASON CAROLO F

J. MATURE O5 PERSONNER ACTION

#. EFFECTING DAPE

?. Castedd

0S EMPLOTHER?

1031 071 67

REASSIGNSENT

REGULAR

Chargresta

B. CSC OR ETIREE LEGAR AUTHORITY

d.

FUNDS

10 g

X

• то 18

ст 10 0F

7136

2070 6040

10. LOCATION OF OIFICIAL STATION

50 USC 41.3 J

D. ORGAMIZATICHAL DESIGRATIONS

DUP, EUR

FOREIGN FIELU

CENTRAL REGION

GERMANY

STATION

COOREILTION ANU SUP BASE, FRANTFURT

OFFICE CE THE CHIEF

FRANKFURT, GERMANY

1J. POSITION NUMBER

TS. SERVICE BESFESATION

11. POSTCH HIN

OPS OFFICER

14. CLASSIFICATION SONEDURE (6S, 18, 81e.)

1S. OCCUPATIORAL SERIES

0478

TO. GRACE AND STEP

17. SALARY CA BATE

0136.01

115

19975

18. REMARKS

19 ACTION 20. Emater

Code

37

1C

29. NIE EXPIRES

1о.

03/00166

35. VET, PREFERLRCE

COOK

AC*%

p1.

OFFICE CODING

TU THRIC

44600

29, SPECIAL

EUR

30.

REFERENCE

82

3á. SERV. COMP

DATE

| 37. LONG. COMP. DATE

pa.

та

SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

17. STATION : 23. INTEGIEE

84. Negina | 25. DATE OF BIRTH

126. BATE 65 SAAZE

CODE

COCE

CHle

DR.

27015

04

1 28115

RETIREMENT DATA

131. SEPSRATICR

32. CORRECTION CANCELLATION DATA

DATA (90E

CODE

TIPE

EOD DATA

J9. isREER

CATEGORY

Cock

39.

FEGLE / HEALTH INSCARRE

1{29

48.

COOR

PREVIOUS CIVILIAN GOVERMMEHY SERVICE

CODE

FEDERAL TAX DATA

cock

•аТДТЄФРТТЯ

FORM INTERES

1. 00 дидаді 96941а

mas 3 000.1

SIGNATURE 09 OTHER AUTHENTENTICN

; Si. BATE OF 1ER

DA

ID. SECURITE 1 34. SEB

REQ. 10..

E2 SOCIAL SECURITY NO

STATE 1aE Dais

гОЛж

5-68

1150

Use Provious

Edition

SECRET

іжА"! -

ATA ME 793 319

Was The Is

---

## Page 47

PIT: 2388 SERT 50

SECHET

(When Filled la)

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

1. SEBBAE HOMGE

8, HAME (LAST-FIRST-MIDOLE)

010229

SWENSON HAROLD F

D. MATURE OS PERSONNEL. ACTION

DESIGNATION AS PARTICIPANT IN CIA

RETIREMEIT AND DISAGILITY SYSTEM

• 80 Y

• 10 18

rUNDs

C8 T0 0

7. DAGANITATIONGL DESIGHATIONS

8 EBFICTIVE DatE

1S. CATEGORY OF EMPLOTMEN!

#0.

119

125166

8. COST CENTER NO. CHANGEABLE

REGULAR

T. ISE ON OTHER LEGAL AUTHORITT

7136 2070 0000

10. LOCATION OF ORFICIAL STATION

FL 88-643 SECT. 203

DDP/EE

11. POSITION TITLE

FRANKFURT, GERMANY

12. POSITION NUMBER

18. SERVICE DESIGHATION

D

14, CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (6S, 18, (8.)

1S. OCCUPATIONAL SERIES

16. GRADE AND STEP

17. SALARY OR BATE

15

18. REMARES

EMFLOYEE WILL RECEIVE NOTIFICATION FROM THE DIRECTOR OF PERSONNEL

OF THIS DESIGNATION AND RIGHT OF APPEAL TO THE DIRECTOR OF CENTRAL

_INTELLIGENCE.

1Đ. ACTION 29. Employ. 21.

CODE

Code

SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

UFFICE CODING

T7. STATION | 23. INTEGRIE

CODE

CODE

24. Magles. ¡ 86. DATE OF BIRTH

[26. DATE OF GRADE

{ode

ALPIABETIE

DA.

Ya.

#O.

D*.

ZT. DATE CF 1E0

28. WIE EXPIRES

DA.

1 28. SPECIAL

REFERENCE

$0.

• NONE

J4. SEXY. COMP. DATE

BETIREMEMT DATA

COOL

2

J7. LONG. (048. DATE

191. SEPARATION

BATA CODE

27. CORRECTION. CAMCELLATION DATA

J3. SE(08178

34. 581

TUPL

EOD DATA

30.

80. SOCIAL SECURITY ND.

38. VER. PREFEMENCE

CODE

38. CAREER CATEGORY

coot

r.An

PEGLI / NEALIM INSUBAW.E

MRALTO INS. CODE

1. YE8

cose

PREVIOUS GOVERRMENT SERVICE DATA

O. NO PREVIOUSINNICE

62. LEAVE CAT

CODE

PONE RAICUTED: CUDE

FEDERAL TAX BATA

TO TAEOREMPPONS

44.

PORiO ERECUTEO

STATE TAX DATA

coat

STATICOCE

FREE!

8. 40

#DEAR IN SERVICE AESS IMAY Y POSI

• BALAN DO BARDICE MONE THRE S YAS!

EGRATUSE JR OTHER NITHE NTICATION

2423

FORM

11-68

1150

Use Prorlous

Callion,

SECRET

9-216-46

Let 1

bump an e

та-.

(When Niod ia) -

---

## Page 48

"PAY ADJUSTMENT IN ACCORDANCE WITH SALANY SCHEDULES OF PL 88-504

PURSUANT TO AUTWORITY

DCI AS

PROVIDED IN

THE CIA ACT

oF 1949,

AS AMERDED, AND A-DCI DIRECTIVE DATEO 8 OCTOBER 1962, "

EFFECTIVE DATE OF PAY ADJUSTMENTI 3 JULY 1966

NAME

SHENSON HARCLO F

SERIAL ORGN, FUNDS GR-STEP .

016229 44 500 CF GS 15 5

OLD

SALARY

$19, 415

NEW

SALARY

$19,970

---

## Page 49

SECRET

(When Fillel Its:

9781S65

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

OCE

I. SERIAL MUMBLE

8. MAME (1AS1-71858-M18818)

016229

SWENSON HAROLD F

B. MANURE OR PORSONNEL ATION

LO CELETINE DATE

3. CATEGORY OF EMPIOYMENT

REASSIGNMENT

FUNDS D

• 10 Y

68 10 8

V 10 68

C 10 (8

P. ORGARIZATIONAL DESIGMATIONS

DOP /EE

FOREIGN FIELD

GERMANY STATION

COOROINATION & SUPPORT GASE, FRANKFURT

WAR PLANS BRANCH

18. POSITION PHILE

07 1 02165

7. COST CENTER NO. CMABGEABIE

REGULAR

D. ESC OR OTNER LEGAL ADTHORITY

6139 2070 0000

IQ LOCATICH OF OFFICIAL SPAHION

50 USC 403 J

FRANKFURT, GERMANY

18. POSITION NUMBER

18. SERVICE DESIGRATIOR

OPS OFFICER

18. CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (65, 1B, 098.)

IS. OCCUPATIONAL SERIES

3436

16. GRADE AND STEP

D

W. SALARY OR RATE

GS

0136.01

15 4

18176

1#: ACTION 20. Employ. 81:

CODE

Codo

137

10

2A. NIE EXPIRES

0A.

3S. VEL PRIERENCE

coDe

OFFICE COBING

44580

29. SPECIAL

RISERENCE

30.

SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

82. STATION | 23. INTEGREE

24. Hdsis. | 25. DATE OF BIRIN

26. DATE OF GRADE

CODE

CODE

(ade

DA.

rя.

EE

27015

3

04

1 26115

BELIREMENT DAYA

J), SEPARATION

28. CORRECTION/ CANCELLATION DATA

cooK

DATA CODE

PIpe

но.

rA.

EOD DATA

34. SERV. COMP. DATE

ол.

37. LONG. COMP. DATE

JA. CAREER

CATEGORY

38.

CODE

SEGLI / MEALTH INSURANCE

HEALIN INS, CODE

1.188

pary

HESS

16614

41.

CODE

PREVIOUS COVERNMENE SERVICE DATA

O. NO PREVIOUS SERDICE

4%. LEAVE CAT.

CODE

FEDERAL TAX DATA

COCE

NO TAR EREMPTIGNS

44.

1.168

8.. 40

#CAN IS SERVICE MISS IMAM A YAS!

SAGAR IN SERVICE MORE THAN I ERSI

SIGNATURE OR OTHER AUTHENTICATION

FROM: WH - 3

FORN

11.82

1150

Use Previous

Edition

SECRET -

17. DATE 08 LED

10.

Эл.

VR.

13. SECURITY

REG. #0.

JA. SEX

40. SOCIAL SECURITY NO.

STATE TAX DATA

CODE

SAS STATECORA

CREMP

194X/3

1d.971

feMaled 1:88 89918338

(When Flled In)

---

## Page 50

• SECRET

(Whon dilled.ia)

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

02/16/66

I SURIAI NUMBER

2 MẠAS (LAS| PRS8-MDDLE)

816029

SWENSON MAROLO I

I HATURE OF PERSONHEL ACTIONI

REASSIONMENT

v 10 v

FUNDS

10 v

• ORGAALZATIONAL DESICALATIONS

ODPAGE DIVISION

# 10 €

CF 10 (8

• EFFECTIVT DATE

HO

ĐA

Fa

07.01

66

7. COSI CONTER NO (NARGIABIL

'S CALIGORY OF IMPLOYAUNT

& ESE OR OMMER TECAL AUTHORITY

9136 2070 0000

HO LOCATION CA OFFICIAL STATION

• PRANKFURT; GERMANY

I1 POSION 11IE

OPS OFFICeR

18 CLASSIFKATION SOMDUNE (G}. (B. eis)

65

TA. REMARIS

17. POSITION NUMBIE

3436

IS OCCUPATIONAL VIRIES

T6 GRADE AND STIP

0136,08

15

13. CAREER SERVNE DESIGNATION

D

TI SALARY OR RAIT

0,-9

SIGRiATURE OR OTHER AUTHENTICATION

11508

Use Previous

Edition

SECRET

(8-51)

(When Filled in)

---

## Page 51

14-00000

•PAY ARJUSTIENT

IN ACCORDAICE

wITr

SALARY SCHLiULES OF

FL

79-511

PIRGLAAT

PC. AUTHORITY OF

TIC!

PROVIDED IN THE

CIA ACT 05

1949.

AS ANFARERA

AVC A DEI POLICY

FFFECTIVE DATE DE DAY AOJUSTNERTE IN OCTIGE 1805

ULU

SALAMY

PA*E

SAFASCE; MAHELEF

SFRIAL DAGE. FUVUS

013129

44 БА!

CF

G5 155

B14017:

NEW

SALARY

$18.825

22221

A18

ting

Name

Cost CaRter Numto

016229

Coresde

§WENSON HARQLILE

OLD SALARY RATE

salury

last fit. Date

Grudo

slep

14 220

NEW SALARY RATE

Sulery

CE

Etronino Date

65 15 4 0100025 09/12/04 65 15 5 619094304/10/00

Femurbs and Aulhenticalon

/ NO EXCESS LWOP

IN PAY STATUS AT END OF WAITING PERIOD

LWOP STATUS AT END OF WAITING PERIOD

CLERKS INITIALS

AUDITED BY

I CERTIFY THAT. THE WORK OF THE ABOVE NAMED EMPLOYÉE IS

OF AN ACCEPTABLE LEVEL OF COMPETENCE.

SIGNATURE:

D. E

888

PAT CHANGE NOPIFICATION &

1-45 560E Arg. 305

11l6

IWOP HOurs.

PS1

TYPE ACTION

ADJ.

MIM

---

## Page 52

14-40000

1550)

PJH: 22 JUN 65

SECRET

(When Tiled In)

MCF

B. TERIAL HUME#

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

2. NAME (LA58-518ST-MIGOLE)

016229

SWENSON HAROLO F

I MATORE OF PERSONNEL ACTION

CONVERSION FROM FSR STATUS

• 10 .

COB

SUFECTIVE DATE

10.

DA

06, 05,55

8. COST CENTER NO. CHASGEABLE

: B. CATEGORY OF EMPIOYMENT

FUNDS

EF 10 &

(8 10 (F

D. ORGAMIZATIONAL DESIGRATIONS

5135 1162 0000

ID. LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION

REGULAR

8. (SE O8 OTMER LEGAL AUTHORITY

51) USC 403 J

DOP WH

WH/C

OFFICE OF THE CHIEF

11. POSITION TITLE

OPS OFFICER SAS

14. CRASSIFICATION SCHEGULE (65, 18, ete.)

GS

15. OCCUPATIONAL SERIES

0136.01

IA. BEMARAS

STATE WASH., D.C.

WASH., D.C.

12. POSITION NUMBER

1108

16. 6R10E AND STEP

15

4

18. SERVICE OESIGNATION

D

17. SALARY ON RATE

18170

19 ACTION 30. Employ. |28.

CODE

Code

56

10

28. NTE EXPIRES

SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PEASONNEL

OFFICE CODING

27. STATION 23. INTEGREE

ALPHAARIIC

20. Máques. | 25. DATE OF BIRTH

CODE

CODE

Code

WH

75013

04

30.

is

RETIREMENT DATA

CODE

J1.

SEPARATION

DATA CODE

32. CORRECTION/ CANCELLATION DATA

TYPE

310.

26 DATE CE GRADE

DA.

3S. WET. PREFERENCE

CoOK

51500

29. SPECIAL

REFERENCE

84

16. SERV. COMP. DATE

/ 27. LONG. COMP. DATE.

но.

sa.

EOD DATA

J8. CAREER CATEGORY

CODE

39.

COCE

FEGLO / HEALTH IMSURANCE

O, HAIVER

41.

(con

CAP

PROY

PREVIOUS GOVERNMENT SERVICE DATA

••AE TREVIDUS SERTICA

.. NO BREAR IM SRAVICE

. DRIAN IN SERVICE LESS TURE 3 VEST

S. BREAN IN SERVICE IGGE PURE A POSI

48. IFAVE (AS.!

CODE

FEDERAL TAX DATA

FORMIXECUTTO; COGR

DO TAX EXFUPTICOS

8.п0.

44.

SIGNATURE 23 OFER AUTHENTIC ITON

21. DATE OF LE1

DA

39. SECURITY:

÷ JA. SEX

RED NO.

¡ 10. SOCIAL SECURITY NO

STATE TAX DATA

1ç0ue Dru

STAIFL02E)

POSTED

66.24-65#

FOR

11.ef

1150

Usa Previous

Edition

located trad kissatis

1961813428%ce

When Filed lad

---

## Page 53

PJHE 24 MAY 65

DOF

1. ЗЕН1А! ПОМАЕА

P. RAME (LAS7-01@ST.MI0OtE)

016229

SWENSON HAROLD F

3. MATURE OF PERSONNEL BCTION

REASSIGAMENT

i ...PUNDS

SECRET

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

CE 10 V

x

IF TO CE

05 | 26,65

7. COST CENTER NO. CHARGEAILE

5135 1 162 0000

LA LOCATION OF OFFIGIAL STATION

TS. CATEGORY OF CAPIOYMEMT

REGULAR

B. (SC OR OINER LEGAL AUTHORITY

50 USE 403 J

DOP/WH

WH/SA

OFFICE OF THE CHIEF

17. POSITION TITLE

POL

ATTACHE

OPS OFFICER SAS

1A CLASSIFICATION SENIOULE (6S, (8, a16.)

FSR

GS

15. OCCUPATIONAL SERIES

0136.01

1Đ. BEMARES

WASH., D.6.

WASH., D.C.

1I. POSITION NUMBER

11108

NEFADE AND STEP

15 4

1D. SERVICE DESIGRATION

D

18170

1D. ACTIOM 10. Employ.

CODE

Code

37

10

70. NTE EXPIRES

=0.

05: 25,66

IS. VET. PREFERENCE

COOB

àt.

OFFICE CODING

SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

18. STATION i

23. BATESAEE

Megirs. | 15. DATE OF BIRTH

CODE

COSE

Cade

75013

RETIREMENT DATA

26. DATE OF GA40E

5105W4

M0. SPECIAL

30.

REFERENCE

84

36. SERV. COMP. DATE

DA.

va.

187. DATE OF LER

43.

JI. SEPRBATION

DATA CODE

32. CORRECTION/ CANCELLATION DATA

TYPE

no.

JA. SECURITY

BEO. 70.

34. SEX

EOD DATA

МОК&

37. LONG. COMP. DATE

130. CAREFR CATESORT

NO

тя

CaSE

39.

CODE

FEGLE / HEALTN

INSURANCE

HEALTN INS. CO0E

=. SOCIAL SECURITY NO.

fan.

many

BESS

1. 188

«1.

600&

PREVIOUS GOVENNMERT SERVICE BATA

48. LEAVE CAT.

CODE

FEDERAL TAX DATA

POR#ERECUTES;

622t

140

TAR EXEMPTIONS

14.

OPEN BISCUTED

STATE TRE DAJA

coza

MIA STATECOBE

1. HO AREAS IS BARBICE

BAGAN IN DENTICR LESS THAN I YASI

RADAR IN SURTICS (MORE IMAN S VASI

8. 80

SIGNATURE OR OTHET LUTHENTIC IMON

a POSIED

6365 H

FORM

1: B2

1150

Uso Prorious

Editton

SECRET Mi

BEEN BE Ri

parestlicatien

(When Filled In)

---

## Page 54

14-00000

ADJUSTMENT OF SALARY RATE IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE

SCHEDULES OF THE GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES SALARY REFORM

ACT OF 1964 PURSUANT TO THE AUTHORITY OF THE DIRECTOR

OF CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AS PROVIDED IN THE CENTRAL

INTELLIGENCE AGENCY ACT OF 1949. AS AMENDED, AND POLICY

DIRECTIVE

ISSUED BY THE ACTING DIRECTOR OF CENTRAL

INTELLIGENCE DATED 8 OCTOBER 1962.

SALARY CONVERTED TO RATE SHOWN FOR INDIVIDUAL'S GRADE

AND STEP AS INDICATED IN CHART BELOW.

GENERAL SCHEDULE RATES

Federal Employees Salary Act of 1964

GRADE

Per Annum Rates and Steps

1

2

3

4

5

GS-

6

7

9

10

1/$3,385|$3,500|$3,615 $3,730|$3,845 $3,960|$4,075|$4,190|$4,305|$4,420

G

G

COCONTOCIHALIN

3,680

3,805

3,930

4,055

4,130

4,305

4,430

4,005

4,140

4.

,275

4,410

4,555|

4,680

4,805

4,545

4,680

4

4,

815

,95,

0

8

22

0

4,

230

5,380

4,

8

5

5

539

5

,6

8

825

сл

5

0

990

U,

6

15

0

6

6

29

0

,95

430

J50

0

1

S

-12

5

.0

3

CAS

5

6

6

8

16,

401

18,93.

21

, 445

1.

,500

22,

,195

60

2

245

945

18

20

,900

23,695

2

555

445

865

,59

---

## Page 55

SECRET

Map.1.140331

NOTIFICATION OF PETIONNEL ACTION

ADPD 07/03/90

1 SERIAL SURGER

: RARE LEARN 02011)

010229

I MATURE OF PERSONTEL ATLJA

SHENSON HAGOLDF

REASSIGNMENT

FUNDS A

• ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGRATLTES

DDP/SAS

C.J SPAGE

5 CATHEDAY OF IMPLOTRUNT

19/64

I CS OR OIMER LEGAL AUTHORITY

• 10

" 1O CF

4132 1000 1000

TE IZA ZA CS OFFICIA STAMON

WASH•• D. Co

11. POSITION TITLE

SPS OFFICER CH

#A CLASSIFICATION SCMEDULE (55 CE M0.)

as.

18. REMARKS

= INTO NUMBER

1882

IS OXCUPATIONAL SERIES

"a SCALE AND STEP

0130.01

15

13 CARLIR SERVICE DESPGMNICH

D

17 SALARY OR RATE

SIGNATURE OR OTHER SU"-ENTICATION

26x Yes

Form

1.83

11508

AAFG. 1-43

SECRET

Esiten

congruin

(When Fellas in)

---

## Page 56

Reprival No

016229

SWENSON MAROLD F

• Ash, pal

19 300 37CF

Stop

OID SALARY RATE

Salary

NEW SALARY RAPE

lost EH. Dote

GS

15

$16,095

04/14/63

Orade

Step

Effortion Doro

GS 15

45176210 04613/64

P51

• Remarts

god

Austentiogrann

/ NO EXCESS LWOP

IN PAY STATUS AT END OF WAITING PERIOD

LHOP STATUS AT END OF WAITING

PERIOD

CLERKS INITIALS

AUDITED BY

I CERTIFY THAT THE WORK OF THE ABOYE MAMED EMPLORE

OF AN ACCEPTABLE LEVEL OF COMPETENCE.

IWOP Houn

TYPE ACTIONA

L91

AbI.

SIGNATURE

o..l.

560

PAY CHANGE NOTIFICATION

Obsoiste Previous

Editon

(45))

IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE PREVISIONS o CUBIG WAS EWAI.7EI63.0EE

MEMORANDUM DATED 1 AUGUST 1956;

SALARY IS ADJUSTED

FOLLOWS.

EFFECTIVE S JANUARY 1964.

NAME

SWENSON HAROLD F

SERIAL

010229

ORON FUNDS

GR-ST

49 300

CF

GS 15 J

OLD

SALARY

515÷325

NEW

SALARY

$16 • 003

---

## Page 57

BAB:

13 FEE 63

ODF

P. SEBAL HUMBER

I. MAMA (LAST-F 1858-m18010)

1016229

SWENSON HAROLO F

8. MATURE OF PERSONNE RATION

REASSIGNMENT

FUNDS

y 10 88

TO C7

•. OSCAMILATIONAL DETANARIONS

DDP

SPECIAL AFFAIRS STAFF

FI CI BRANCH

1I, POSITICA TITLE

ATTACHE POL OFF

OPS OFFICER

T4. SLASSIFICATION SCRAZASS (OT LB, 0M.)

FSR

GS..:

15. OCCUPATIONAL SERIES

0136.0t..

10. REMARES

WASHINGTON, D.C.

SECRET

,V6Jaa Millen in)

NOTIFICATION CE PERSONNEL ACTION

A $

• ISFaCTIVE BalE

02 | 13, 63

7. 6OS8 CENTER DO. CHARGEABLE

3132 1000

1000

1Q LOCATION QE OFFICIAL BIATION

5. CATESONY OF EMPLOYMENT

REGULAR

TE. OSC OR OTHER LEGAE MATIOEITY

50 USC 403 J

WASH., D. C.

TZ. POSITION NUMBER

0678

1%. GRADE AND STEP

104

0

15.2

11. CAREER SERVICE CISIERRSION

D

17. SALARY

OR RATE

13340

15045

19. ACTION 20. Employ | 37.

CODE

Cost

37

10

28. MTE EXPIRES

SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSNE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

OFFICE CODIES

22. STATION

CODE

23. INTEGRIE

6698

зe No. 25. BATE OF BIR,

186. DATE OF GRADE

40.

Tu marc

61300 SAS

75013

04

28115

* SPECIAL

30.

RETIREMEN? DATA

¡ 38. CORRECTION/CANCELLARION DATA!

DATA C30E

cook

TIrE

D 4.

EOD DATA

: 8P. DATE 08 121

DA.

IJ SECURITY

HEQ. 19.

1 JA SEX

35. VET. PREFERENCE

cOOK

•34 SERV. COMP. BaTE ; 38. LONG COMP. DATE

1 3A CABEEN CATEGORY

2008

39.

CoDa

FEGLI / HEALTH INSURARCE

MEALIM 1YS COOE

¡ LA SOCIAL SECURITY NO.

8. 188

0023

41.

tOOE

PREVIOUS COVERURENT SERVICE DATA

0•09 +814 44 894714

• NO DERAN LO SIGNICE

12. LEAVE CAT. ' 12

(COE

FEDERAL TAX DATA

1E:A:AA COCE

NO

PAX BBREPTIONS

44.

STATE TAX DATA

itod

142 6T67 2038

PORN BARCUTED

1 • 882

8.40

SIGNATURE CS OTHER AUTHENTICATION

FOSTED

1A-808

FORM

# 62

1150

Use Previons

Edition

SECRET

1J 1865

82=195 :8: 23

sea Filled In)

---

## Page 58

Sorind too

Cont Cans

11000 Naurs

016229

SWENSON MAHOLD F

Cance

Stop

OID SALATT HATE

Solar

Loet 8H. Dete

Orado

500p

81 100 ZACS

NEW SALADE DATE

Salary

Ellerton Duty

TORY ACTION

1$0

ADS

GS 15

915.045

04/19/62

19

$13,929

09139163)

Remoras and

Cheerator out an ared

NO EXCESS LWOP

D00

IN PAY

STATUS AT END OF WAITING PERIOD

/ LHOP STATUS AT END OF WAITING PENIOD

CLERKS INITIALS

AUDITED BY

fl- 44/10/4-3

4/1/633

I CERTIFY THAT THE WORR OF THE ANOVE NAMED EMPLOYEE

OF AN ACCEPTABLE LEVEL OF COMPETENCE®

SIGNATURE!

DATE 6/24/63

PAY CHANGE NOTIFICATION

360

(431)

1' ACCORDICE AITH THE PROVILIONS OE PUILIC LA:

DS!

"ANDRAYOU: DATES

I LUGUST

1554

EEFECTIVE

1912

NAGE

SERIAL REGA

FUADS GREST SALARY.

GOOST SALsaY

SHENSOT MAROLD F

519224. 16450

C519 & 994055

1: 2

€19065

---

## Page 59

БАВ: 31 ОСТ 62

COF

&, SERIAL HUBBEA

1 8. MABE (LAST FEST-MI08LE)

016229

IL BATURE DS PERSONNEL ACTION

SWENSON HAROLD F

REASSIGNMENT

FUNDS

8. GESAMPATICHAL DESISHATICNS

SECRET

(Whos Filod In)

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

4 19FECTIVE BATE

1g.

10 | 31162

7. COST CENTEA NO. SMARHADIE

S. CATESCHT OF EMPLOTHES?

REGULAR

8_ (SC OR OINIA LEGAL AUTHORITY

3132 1000 1000

10. LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATICA

50 USC 403 J•

DOP/TASK FORCE W

OFFICE OF THE CHIEF

18. POSITION TITLE

ATTACHE POL OFF

OPS

OFFICER O CH

1A CLASSIFICATICI SOMEDULE PES, IB, 0fs.)

1S. OCCUPATIORAL SERIES

FSR

GS

0136.01

ID REMARAS

BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA

WASH.,

D. C.

17. POSITION NUMBER

0663

I6. GRADE ANO STIP

04 0

15

2

19. CAREER SEBVICE DESIGMATION

D

13. SALERT OR RATE

•1 3340

15045

ПЕНФ

pines

0339

COZE

Cade

37

10

SH #1E EXPIRES

21.

COEHCE.(OM

REMERIE

61100 TFW

27. SPECIAL

REFERENCE

SPACE BELOW TOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

32. STATICK

83. INTEGREE

24. Mostrs. | 25. DAIE OF BIRTH

CODE

GD8E

(ode

on.

75013

04 | 28115

HEY:REMENT DATA

C008

¡ 31. SEPARATION

DATA CODE

12. CORRECTION/ CANCELLATION DATA

но.

04.

I SA DATE DE GRADE

TR.

27. DATE OF LEI

DA.

TA.

3J. SECURITY

вЕд. 10.

20. SEX

EOD DATA

80

3A. S180. COOP BATE

35. BET. PRRFEPENCE

reas

19.9098

17. 10NG

COMP. DATE

I JI. CARELA CATEGORY

on.

1196

coon

33040

19.

COOB

FEGLE / WEALTH INSURANCE

0. 19108»

8. 788

1D. SOCIAL SECURITY NO:

41.

PREVIDOS GOVERNMERT SERVICE BATA

• 42. LEAVE CAI.:

CODE

FEDERAL TAR DATA

COog

SEN ERECUTES

STATE TAE DATA

Ccog

NO TAX STATECOOR

SCRAM PAL, 185

BERNIER, 19499 taess.

8. 49

SIGNATURE OR OTHER AUTHENTICATION

05-9

to 1150.

Ung ProTiOS

Extiniza

SECRE

Bak 14/31/667

FOSTED

sile

ba!t

frost song tie

1.

18-88 D

(When Filled la)

---

## Page 60

Personnel Action

pirior zo

•196>

---

## Page 61

14-00000

SECRET

(when filled (n)

EMPLOYEE SERIAL NUMBER

FITNESS REPOPT

016229

ECTION A

NAME

11.901)

SWENSON,

B. OFFICIAL POSITION TITLE

Ops Officor

B. CHECK (X) TYPE OF

(Float)

Harold

F.

POINTMENT

GENERAL

12. DATE OF BiRTH TS: SEX

TO GRADE

#. 30

28 Apr 15

GS -15

D

7. OFFVOIVIOR OF ASSIONMENT O CURRENT STATION

DDP/WH/Cuba

IXITYPE ON REPORT

Frankfurt

I-DMOVISIONAL (Sio Inatructiona • Section C)

HEASSIGNMENT SUPENHIROR

REASSIGNMBAT INFLOVEE

BDECIAL (Spocily):

HE PORT QUE

17 0.0.

31 May 1267

SECTION B

W- Washi

PORTiNO PERIOD (FAM- PO)

1 Apr11 1966 - 31 March 1967

PERFORMANCE EVALUATION

Porformonce ranges from wholly inadequate to slightly less than sorisfoctory. A rating in phla coregory requires

positive remedial action.

The nature of the action could range from counseling, to further preining, lo placing on

probation, to roossignment

or lo separation.

Deseribe action lokon or proposed in Section C.

A - Adervote

Performonce meeta all requirements. I ls entirely sorisloctory ond ls charoctorled neither by deficiency nor

oncollence.

P - Prolicien!

§ - Strong

0 - Quisranding

Porformanco lo more than sotisfoctory. Dostrod resulia are baing peoduced in a proficions manner.

Performanco is characterized by enceptlenal proficioncy.

Performanco is so exceptional in relation to roquirements of the work and in comparison to the performance al

others doing similar work as to marrono spacial recognirion.

SPECIFIC DUTIES

Line up to simpo the moss important spocific dutios parlormod during sha ratina period.

матве ір

which

Insort rating lotter which bone describos the

jomployee performs EACH specilic duty.

Consider ONLY elfactiveness in porformanco of that duty.

#loh suporvisoryzosponsibilitios MUST be ratod on their ability lo superviso (indicato nimbor of omployods auporrinod).

All employeos

SPECIPIC DUTY NO. 1

Spotting and recruiting of agents to cover Cuban targot

RATING

LETTER

S

JPECIPIC DUTY MIC. PIC.2

Agent handling

LETTER

S

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. J

Running office at Frankfurt Base

NATONE

LETTEA

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. A

Economic use of funds and equipment

ET TE

S

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 9

ETTE

LETTER

SPECIFIC OUTY NO. O

SE MAR 1967 R

OVERALL PERFORMANCE IN CURRENT POSITION

rake Into account overything about the employes which influences his effectiveness in his curront posillon such as per.

formanco of specifie.

dutlos, producrivity,

conduct on job, cooporativaness, partinant personal prairs or habies, on

parriculor limitarions oe talants.

Bosed on your knowledge

al employed's overall performance during the ratina period.

ploco she lettes in the rosing bos corrosponding to the storemont which most occuraraly rollaces hia lovel of portormonce.

1-99 9

05* 45

USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.

SECRET

stated thes

PATINO

LETTER

S

---

## Page 62

14-00000

SECTION C

SECRET

NARRATIVE COMMENTS

berore for desermining future personnel oction. Morno of performance of monggerol a supervisory dution ond cost con8cr0u2r4%8

in she ute of personali space, equipment ond funds, muse to commented on it applicuble. Ii entra space is nerded to complere

Soction C, anacho seporalo shees of paper.

During

tho past year Mr. Swenson has continued to fulfill his

dutios as. the Senior Cuban opcrations officer in Europe in a

superior

.,manner

He has shown tiroless chergy in travelling and working all

possible operational leads: sound

and professionnl judgment in

handling agent contacts and mootings und an enthusiastic imagination

in dovoloping information and accoss to new

potential targets.

Mr. Swenson has been prompt and thorough in

his response to all

roquests and reguirements from Hoadquarters and prudont in the use

of Agorcy funds and equipment.

The running of his office and the conduct of his official

business

from Frankfurt Base was described as follows in a dispatch

from

the COB dated 6 Narch 1967.

"It should be noted that in our

opinion Subject's performance has boon outstanding.

He handles all

assignments promptly and in an extromoly officient manner with a

minimum of detailed guidance from Hoadquarters."

SECTION D

DATE

2.

MONTUS CAFLOYCE HAS BEEN

UNGER MY

SUPErVISION

DATE

12

15 MAR 1967

COMMENTS OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

CERTIFICATION AND COMMENTS

BY EMPLOYEE

I CERTIFY THAT I MAVE SEEN SECTIONS A. B. AND C OF TMIS REPORT

SIGNATURE OF EMPLOYEE

BY SUPERVISOR

IF TMIS HEPURI HAS NÜT BEIN SHOWN TO EMPLOYEE, GIVE EXPLANATIÓN

This report has not boon shown to Mr. Swenson due to

his

absence from Hoadquarters

OFFICIAL TITLE ÖF SUPENVISOR

DE/WH/COG

BY REVIEWING OFFICIAL

¿ concur.

DATE

16 IMAR 1967

TOFFICIAL TITLE OF REVIÊWING OFFICIAL

CAH/COG

SECRET

---

## Page 63

14-00000

SECRET

Fallad in)

IMPLOYEE SERIAL NUMBER

FITNESS REPORT

016229

SECTION A

I. NAME

(L938)

SWENSON,

(Firel)

Harold

(Middle)

F.

B. OFFICIAL POSITION TITLE

Ops

Officer

D. CHECH (X) TYPE OF APPOINTMENT

CAMEE#

RESERVE

TEMPORARY

CAREER-PROVISIONAL (SeR Instructiona - Section C)

SPECIAL (Spacily):

11, DATE RFFORT DUE IN O.".

GENERAL

[a. DATE OF BIRTH TO. SEX

A. ORADE

B. $0

28 Apr 15

M

GS-15

D

T. OPPOINTER OF ASSIONMENTS, CURRENTSTATION

DDP/WH/Cuba

Frankfurt

10. CHECH IXI TYPE OF REPORT

INITIAL

IFCASSIGNMENT SUDIAVISON

¡ARABBIONNENT EMPLOYEE

SPECIAL (Sporily):

11. REPORTINO PERIOD (FROM- 10)

Deu 1966

1 April 1965 - 31 March 1966

SECTION B

w. Weat

PERFORMANCE EVALUATION

Portormenco ranges from molly inadequore to slightly loss than satistociory. A rating in this coregory requiren

positivo comedial action. The noture of the action could range from counseling, lo lurther troining, lo placing on

probation, to roossignment or lo separation.

Describe action tokon or proposed in Section C.

A - Adaguate

Performonce modis all requirements. Il is entiraly sotisfociory and is characierired naither by deficioney nor

excallence.

P - Proficient

§ - Strong

O • Questending

Perlormance is moro than satisfactory, Desired resules are being producad in a proficians manner.

Porformance is characterizod by exceptional proficlency.

Perfórmance is so excaptional in rolation lo requirements of the work and In comparison to the performanco of

othors doing similar mort as to marrant apecial recognition.

SPECIFIC DUTIES

ist up-po six ol tha most importone spocitie dutios performod during the rating period. Insary rating lotter which boat describes the

monner in which employee periorms EACH spocitic duty.

Consider ONLY alloctivanoss in performanco of that duty.

All employoos

with supervisory responsibiliries MUST do rated on their ability lo supervise (indicole number of amployade supervined).

SPECIFIC DUTY NO.!

TING

Served

Spotting and recruiting of Cuban agents

CIFIC DUTY NO. a

Agent handling

S

LETTER

S

SPECIFIC DUTY NO, 5

Running office at Frankfurt Base #

RATING

LETTER

S

SPECIFIC DUPY NO. A

Economic use of funds & equipment

EATING

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. B

RATING

LETTER

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. A

LETTER

OVERALL PERFORMANCE IN CURRENT POSITION

conduct-on job, cooperativanass, pertinent personal trairs or habita, ane

particular limitationa or solenis.

Bqgod on

pour knomledgo of employed's overall performance during

the eating period,

plece the letter in she rating

25 AUB 955a spending to ina sratamen mhich mass as surately rellocre his lovel of performance.

5 * 45

USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.

SECRET

ETTE

---

## Page 64

14-00000

SECTION C

SECRET

NARRATIVE COMMENTS

overall performance. Irate suggestions mode for improvement of work performance.

basis foi determining furure personnel occion. Manner of performance ol mancgerial of supervisory dutie, and cost confciousness

in the use of personnel, space, equipment orid funds, muss be commented on, it applMAhleR' SIta space is nooded to comptere

Section C, orlach à soporare shoot of paper.

Mr.

Swenson

has

assigned to the Frankfurt Base as

Cuban operations officer since

had two brief

meetings with Mi. Swenson in Europe during this period and has been in

a position to monitor and guide some of his Hendquarters-directed

operational activities in various countries in Europe.

Nr.. owenson is a mature,

experienced dependable officer with a

Hide rance of experience in intelligence work. He has specialized in

Cuban operations since late 1962 and his present activities in Europe

principally concern the spotting and assessment of Cuban targets,

recruitment pitches and running agents.

He is also available to

European stations

on Cuban matters either at their request or on Head-

quarters direction.

He has done a professional job in every respect

in carrying out his responsibilities.

He has been prompt in responding

to Headquarters' requests and requirements,

thorough in carrying out

his assiguments and clear and accurate in his reporting.

Cuban matters in Europe has significantly extended the Agency's

coverage of this priority targeth on Specific Duty No. 3 (*) of this

The rating given Mr.

report is based on the comments of COB, Frankfurt, contained in

EGOT-29131, a copy of which is

attached.

During

the period under review dr.

Swenson has shown good

judgment. in the utilization of Agency funds and equipment.

SECTION D

CERTIFICATION AND COMMENTS

BY EMPLOYEE

DATE

I CERTIFY THAT I NAVE SEEN SECTICNS A, 8, AND C OF TMIS REPORT

SIGNATURE OF EMPLOYEE

MONTMS EMPLOYEE

HAS BEEN

UNDER MY

SUPERYISION

eight

DATE

BY SUPERVISOR

IF THIS REPORT MAS NOT BEEN SHOWN TO EMPLOVEE, GIVE EXPLANATION

This report has not been slown to Nr. Swenson due

to his absence from Headquarters

OFFICIAL TITLE OF SUPERVISOR

TYPES GO CONTES IANE ANO SIOMATURE

2. 2 AUG 1966

DC/WH /Cuba

BY REVIEWING OFFICIAL

COMMENTS OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

I

concur in the above rating.

Mr. Swenson's performance

has been

marked by great

very real

sense of

devotion to duty which has kept him

away from

his family a great deal of the

time; and by a high degree

of professional competence.

DATE.

OFFICIAL TITLE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

Chief. KH Cuba

SECRET

---

## Page 65

14-00000

REPORT OF MONCOMPLETION OF TRAINING

NAME OF STUDENT

swenson, Harold F.

TITLE OF COURSE IN MICH STUDENT HAS ENROLLED

Fronch Inter. - RSW

REASON STUDENT DID ROT COMPLETE COURSE

Prepare

lor

and 2 copies.

CHADE

SERVICE DEBIGNATION.

15

DATES

OF COURSE

D

04/26/65 - 06/30/65

1l one

copy

in intended

propare

an ordainel

WIL

Withdrew: 05/15/65.

REMARX$

FOR THE DIRECTOR OF TRAINING

BANE OF GUIRE INSTRUCSOS

10 SeP 65

(36-491

7. 69 2119

---

## Page 66

14-00000

SECPET

Elen Filled 80)

FITNESS REPORT

ENPLOTEE SERIAL NUMBER

016229

GENERAL

SECTION A

1. NAME

(Loat)

(81888)

(Nialle)

¡&- DATE OF BIRTA

D. SEX

a. ORADE

19.30

SHENSON, Harold F.

28 Apr

15

M

GS-15

17. OFF DIV/OR OF ASSIONHENT

CURRENTSPATION

8. OFFICIAL POSITION TITLE.

Ops

Officer CH

DDP/SAS

Washington D.C.

10. CHECK (X) TIRE OF REPORT

#. CHECK (X) TYPE OF AFPOINTMENT

TRLASSIONMIHT SUPERVIBOR

AGAGAVE

TEMBOR ANY

INITIAL

PHARSIGNNENTEMDLOVEE

BA-PROVISIONAL (Seo inalnuctiona • Jection C)

ANNUAL

ICIAL (SpeCIfY):

I AL (Spoetty):

Ta. REPORTING PERIOD (FrOR-

non)

81. 038

PE REPORT

April 19gs

22 December 64 • 31 March 1965

SECTION B

PERFORMANCE EVALUATION

Porformance rangos from whally inadequare no alightly less than sotialactory. A rating in this category requiros

positive remedial action. The nature of the action could range from counseling, to further training, lo placing on

probation, lo reassignmont

or to seporation. Desceibo derlon tokon or proposed in Section C.

A • Aleguate

Porformance moore all requiements. ll is ontiraly satialuciory and la choroctorized nelther by deliciency noe

excollenco,

•P • Prolicien!

Performanco la moro than sotisloctory, Desired resulta ero belne produced in a proficions monner.

§ - Strong

Performance la chasactarised by orceptional proliciency.

O - Qutalanding

Porformance Is so excoptional in relation to requiremenes of the work and in comparison to tho portormenco of

others doing almiler work as to morrone apecial recounition,

SPECIFIC DUTIES

.ise up to sir of lhe most importons spocific dutlos performed during the roting perlod. Indert rating lotter which boat describas th

manner in which amployee porforms EACH spocifle duty.

_onsider ONLY affectivenesa In peeformance of that duty

with suporoleory cosponsibilities MUST be ratad on their ability to superviso (indicalo number of employees sure:rted.

LETTER

SPECIPIC DUTY NO. !

Supervision of the WH/Cuba/CI Staff.

EATING

SPECIFIC DUPY NO. &

Providing specialized counterintelligence planning,

guidance, and support for MH/Cuba and other clandestine

services

components.

SPECIPIC OUTY NO I

Spotting, recruiting and handling Cuban agents.

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. $

Economic use of funds, equipment and personnel..

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 3

RATINO

LETTER

CATTEN

S

SETTER

ETTI

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 9

OVERALL PERFORMANCE IN CURRENT POSITION

Tote ince of spar de duties, bod he in loonduct ich in perfect poten arson rosition

such as pep.

formanco ol spocitie

•conduct on joo

rooperativeness, pertinent personal traits or habirs, and

particuler limitations or solenis.

Bosed on your knowledge of employer"s overall performence during

the rating period.

place the loiter in the roling bor corresponding to she statezen which mose accurately rollacia his loval of portormanco.

19 APR 1955

F-CRN 45

OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.

SECRET

EATING

S

---

## Page 67

14-00000

SECTION C

SECRET

NARRATIVE COMMENTS

verall porformionco.

Srato sungostione made for improveriont of imork performance.

OFFICE AT TE

Swenson performed the duties of CI. Staff Chief for

staff has sinco been combined

with another branch ind part of its

functions transferred to JNWAVE as part

worked out by Mr.

Swenson and Chief, JUWAVE.

This consolidation program has resulted

in a significant saving in manpower without loss of operational

efficiency.

Mr. Swenson's performance in his new duties as Special

to the Deputy Chief; Wil for Cuba, for planning has Just

begun and it is not possible to rate. him on these.

Mr. Swenson's

performance as Supervisor of the CI Staff continued to be marked by

high ability and aggressiveness throughout the poriod. He is an

effective leador who obtains good work from his personnel.

His unit

was marked by a high morale and good organization.

During this period

Mr. Swenson

has personally directed and participated in the remotiva-

tion of a previously disappointing Cl asset

who was also trained and

dispatched into Cuba.

This agent began communicating shortly after

return to Cuba indicating the success of the opcration.

Swenson has also been personally responsible for a varicty of other

operational activities including the preparation of a

"white book"

concerning Cuban intelligence and subversive activities in Latin

America which is being made avallable to various governments.

Swenson carried out a number of briefings of high level foreign

officials concerning these matters in a highly effective manner.

SECTION D

CERTIFICATION AND COMMENTS

→... continued...

BY EMPLOYEE

I CERTIFY THAT I MAVE SEEN SECTIONS A, 8, AND C OF TMIS REPORT

DIE II 65

SIONATURE O" EMPLOYEL

HONTHS EMPLOI

INDER M'

HAS BEEN

VISION

BY SUPERVISOR

TIP THIS REPORT HAS NOT BEEN SHOWN TO EMPLOYEE, GIVE EXPLANATION

DATE

OFFICIAL TITLE OF SUPERVISOR

TYPE

1 April 1965

WH/C/COPS

BY REVIEWING OFFICIAL

COMMENTS OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL Mr. Swenson does indeed need to hide his occasional

"Impatlence with lesser mortals"

, as suggested by the rater. That we

have confidence in his tact as well as in his professionalism is,.

however, indicated by his pending assignment to an important job

Europe where his success will depend in part on maintenance of good

relations with personnel of the various European Stations.

concur with the high ratings given in this report, which are well

DATE

5 April 1965

OFFICIAL TITLE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

DCWHD/C

John L. Hart

SECRET

---

## Page 68

SECR

S T

SECTION C (continued)

His aggressive spirit and impatience with lesser mortals are

sometimes disconcerting,

but the Agency would

better off with

more people of Ur. Swenson's undeniable capacity in the substantive

and managerial fields.

S

C

R

---

## Page 69

14-00000

SECRET

(When Filled la)

FITNESS REPORT

EMPLOTEE

SERIAL NUMBER

016229

#. GRADE

8. 30

"(Firel)

Harold

F.

12. DATE OF BIRTH D. SEX

(Lant)

SWENSON,

D. OFFICIAL POSITION TITLE

Ops_Officer

CHECK (X) TYPE OF ARPOINTMENT

CARRIER

CAREIR PROVISIONAL (SPO InDIructiona - Soction C)

(Spelly):

1. DATE REPORT DUE IN O.P.

(Middle)

GENERAL

SECTION A

1. NAME

28 Apr 1915

M

GS-15

D

D. OFF/DIVIOR OR ABSIONMENT

• CURRENESTATION

DDP/SAS

Washington D.C.

10. CHECK (NI TYPE OF REPORT

TEMPORARY

INITIAL

RLASBIANMENT SUPIAVISON

RE ASSIGNMENT EMPLOVE

ANNUAL

SPECIAL (Spacily)?

18. REPORTINO PERIOD (FPOm• 10-)

1 April 61 - 21 December 64

PERFORMANCE EVALUATION

SECTION B

W - Weak

Po fove remedial a ton Tally tur quate to all luld ranger eifataline, a fine te this cos io pracquien

probotion, lo reassignment de to separation.

Doscelbe action token or proposod in Soction C.

A - Ado nueto

Performonce mools all raquirementi,. ¡ is antirely satisfoctory and is charactorized nolther by delicioncy noe

excallence.

P . Proficient

Porformance in moro thon satisfactory, Desired rosules are boing produced in a proficiens manno,

§ - Strong

Porformanco is charocterizod by excoptionol proficiency.

0 - Quisrunding

Porformanco ls so excoptional in ralation ta raquirements of the work and in comparison lo the performance of

othors doing similar work as to warrant spacial recognition.

SPECIFIC DUTIES

mise up to six of the mose Impartons spocille duties performed luring the

roving period. Insort rosing lomer which bost describos the

mannor. in which amployco

performs EACH, spocilie duty.

Conside ONLY oflecsiveness in performanco of thot duty.

All employees

with suporvisory responsibilitios MUST bo roted on phair ability to suporviso (indicato number of employers suporvinod).

RATINO

LETTER

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 1

Responsible for supervising the WH/SA/CI Staff.

RATING

LETTER

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. &

Provides specialized counterintelligence planning, guidance, and/or

support for WH/SA and for other Clandestine Services components.

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. J

Spots, recruits, and/or handles Cuban agents.

LETTER

APIN

EITE

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 4

SETTO

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 9

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. O

OVERALL PERFORMANCE IN CURRENT POSITION

To into of our die chie, po che one chich in ence hit fleeti pen his one pain ach pen

"ince of spocific

• icular limitations or talents. Based on

your knomledgo of employer's ovorall performance during the raring foriod.

flece the letter in the rating bon corresponding lo the statement which mast accurately reflecte his level of performance:

16 MAR 1965г

FORM 45

OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS..

SECRET

LATING

S

---

## Page 70

ta-notes

SECTION C

SECRET

Puben Filled in!

NARRATIVE COMMENTS

Stato suggestions modo for improvement of work performance, dire recommendations lur

on foreigo languago comperence, ll regulrod for cuerent position.

Amplity or onplain eatings given in Section U to provido bes

asis or determining future personnel action. Mauner ol periormanco of miegerial or surelgotguti guarden degribode

spplicable.

During much of the reporting perlod, Nr. Swenson has been on

TDY overseas attempting

to recruit

member's

of the Cuban Intelligence

Service:

In these endeavors he has had noteworthy success.

Also

during this period Mr. Swerson and his staff developed the first

comprehensive picture

of the Cuban intelligence structure and

organizational details.

These results were due to Mr.

Swenson's

diive, experience, and ability.

As stated in my previous

report

on Mr. Swenson,

"he is

impatient with colleagues and collaborators

whom he feels do not measure up to his own high standards."

This

continues to. lead to personal friction and detracts

from his many

capabilities, I bolieve he is best suited

as a senior high-level

operations officer or the chief of a small active station rather

than as a staff officer.

He handles funds and manpower prudently.

SECTION D

CERTIFICATION AND COMMENTS

¡ CERTIFY THAT I HAVE SEO SECTIONS A, I, AND C OF THIS REPORT

BY SUPERVISOR

TIF THIS REPORT HAS NOT BEEN STOWN TO EMPLOYEE, GIVE EXPLANATION

DATES

Tilian 65

ANDER ESCRISION

AS BEE

DATE

Appior. 2 years

28 January 1965

COMMENTS OF REVIEWING DEFICIAL

OFFICIAL TITLE OF SUPERVISOR

Deputy Chief,

WH (SA)

BY REVIEWING OFFICIAL

PEO. OR PRUA

NO SIGNATURE

weiven

Cheever

DATE

12 March 1965

OFFICIAL TITLE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

Deputy Chief, WHD

SECRET

"PED CA PRINTED NAME ENOSIGNA

1к hero

Lard w. Herbert

---

## Page 71

4-00000

Fatuero Reparto, PHS, Training

Reparto -

all prior. 7a oct 1962

-

---

