104-10219-10074

: ie det ao
a ~ va

CENTRAL INSELLIGENCE AGENCY
WASHINGTORD.C. 29525 eid

"

MEMORANDUM POR: Kational Security Agency

ATTENTION s Mr. Janes BE. Lear, M-5 as"

SUBJECT : U.S. Defector Berzon Ferguson Mitchell (V*
eed

=

1. The information which follews was provided by
Rudolf Sheptelevich Tenenbaum, a Jewish cmi-
grant from the Soviet Union who has obtained a U.S.
immigrant visa and plans to resettle in the New York
City area during August 1575. Bors on 16 April 1938
in Leningrad, he was a technical translator and English
language teacher in Leningrad from 1960 until his depar-
ture from the USSR in May 1975.

2. In 1973, when Texenbaum wes seeking an American
who could speak to some of his English language classes,
he was introduced at the house of a student in Leningrad
to Bernon Ferguson Mitchell, an American who had defected
to the Soviet Union in 1540.

Coferafpr . La tgat >

3. Tenenbaum visited Mitchell several times during
the period between 1973 azd May 1975. Mitchell lived in
Leningrad at Prospekt Rinskogo-Korsakova Number 16,
Apartment 1, in a large private hozse; his telephone number
was 16-58-80.

4. Mitchell is married to a wonan named Galina, last
name unknown, who is dean of the piano faculty at the
Leningrad Conservatory. ‘hey have ro children. ‘3

5. Tenenbaum states that Mitchell is very unhappy,
drinks a lot, regrets his defection, and would like to
return to the U.S. or sone other English-speaking country.

LARNER AN ie REA PEER EL ae ANE et 2 Le enna e eee eecnnee ee nem a emtenmmmmntaehn se

art



is unable to read Russian books. He receives a pension of
approximately 500 rubles (about US$715) a month, and has

’

a

-2-

Mitchell dislikes Soviet life, speaks little Russian, and
regular visits from the KGB.

6. In May 1973, when Tenenbaum was teaching English
to a number of prospective Jewish emigrants in Leningrad,
he was subjected to a recruitment attempt by the 432 which
wanted him to report on alleged Zionist instigators of the
Jewish exodus from the USSR. Tenenbaut refused to report
on’ his students, rejected this attempted recruitment, and
subsequently openly recounted the recruitment atterpt to
four groups of his students totalling about 40 Jews.
Tenenbaum felt’ that this was the best way to ensure that
the KGB would never bother him again.

7. When he later described his reaction to the recruit-
ment attempt to Mitchell, Mitchell told hin he had acted
wisely, particularly in revealing his signing of a secrecy
agreement which the would-be KGB recruiter had dictated to

him.

@. Just prior to Tenenbaws's departure from the Soviet
Union in May 1975, he again visited Mitchell to return a
book. On that occasion Mitchell was morose, and asked how
he could leave the USSR illegally. Mitchell mentioned
using the documents of a sailor on a foreign vessel as one
possibility in this regard.

FOR THE DEPUTY DIRECTOR FOR OPERATIONS:

George T. Kalaris

!

|

|

i

i

i CIOL-00111-75

| "Distribution:
: Orig & 1 ~ Addee
a

1 - c/cr
2 - CI/R&A/T

Sourceg| fazzi2 (28 639171) ey F

SEIT Sewsrrryg

2 a ee EME Ete actrees a

