# 104-10071-10126

## Page 1

104-10071-10126

f Pages:

t Made By

•ibution:

•copy to:

15-9

Italy, (Rome).

22

2

No. of Enclosures.

DOWNEY

Approved By

Fashirator (5) .

Orally to:

* RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

References:

12 Ang 544

1 envelope

MDESON NOW

Japanese Embassy

Files

Source Cryptonym:

Source,

Operational Data, and Comments:

NOT SUITABLE FOR MIGROFILM

PRIIDEPCAST Editorial

Comment:

the internittent

coverage. on

Japanese diplomats and personalities

was originally started at the time the Inbassy

reopened here, in the event that such reporting

might be of interest in connection with Plan CAESAR.

are now dubious as to the usefulness of this

coverage and will appreciate readquarter's views and

desires,

68-25791

Classification

SECREE CONTROL

U. S. OCHAIIS 6 HHY.

ТУК.

Dr 6091/

CHARGED FROM RID/FI

8917

---

## Page 2

14-00000

22

Stojects

Place required:

Japanese Babaosy

Atal, Boss:

Soupon:

02

(Pornote

Bepare 1oy

Date of Infor

February-juns 54

Dete Acquiradi February June 5u

Date of Rapori: 12 ingust 54.

Te Japaneso Marasador no paRano, accrodited ta the Quisinle

save a dinner in honor-of the. Amacicad hubagzador Clair Losth

1005 at 2030 houzee Eleuruary 3954r Among the giests reve the

Solom Dea

The dapanese Mmustar ao une holy see and three nour tunamos

Do Annies wrist mela pussor ate lied presear;

ion Glana Mao, Danet solo chine addra he arres

so the sonin fist soariary edgo con tears,

Vio

abossader We futal and his mate coparves des staily on T lane

95t coconcented or die Abcocke SHURCHI TOTAL& They securzad &

Rome on 13 leach 295l

panose Apbassañor hadnetact with the folioring inividuals:

:J4-231389

: D:

Sarod 25 forsas 1951 et Poleo arrang hone 29 lich 19348

0. 26 MANSULATO

SETIOLENT

Married 6 Hereia 2953

He 20790, boring Bon 15 & an on 1o: 130%g

on 2 Fy 195l the Japazose Aubassador raceived ine following

Jensacoe capiomats the louged at the Botol Flassi

• SATE AMIRA:

/ 5.

RANATURA ROSIDICAZU Or IOSITIAZU, Sacond Secretery of the caponcas

Erbesar scoredited to the Quirinale:

accouparied by his rife to the over his resporaibilities.

errived 22 February at Chemoino

not possibis do luor his passport mabero

9 6p.

caparted or sagar.

AMUKI LORI, CounseLor of Dabassy: eccomanied by lis Tale, Capsaro

they mish ascorical rist's Natan

aue Photos en expected auseace of car dageo

SDOROS 03/33.08

---

## Page 3

14-00000

CORO EATTORI, Tasi Decroucy, ceaseô his responsibilities ? April 54.

INSUe: PArASITOs, Mine't Sconutest, has taisen lodging ai LiT Vie

Odearine don dances

ma 22 liarsia 3951:0

he is in possession of diplomale pasaport No.

19002 desucó et tolvo os 5 enmory 195ks

Re has taken bemporary

He torerves purbual office

Enters:

C830 do 3300 Houss end frus 2000 to 2200 house Suoject

Madride

who mail depart. ca 29 Isrea Los his new portio

FATOBRAKA IS

passport 1a.:

20404 Romes 20 Apci2 2952 at Dangere hens arrived

tu Baza ena dool Indginge at the Hotel logdas, an li lugust 295ka

FURIBAUA| RADULO, CoMed Secretare bearing denionaute passport

Nos 23617 Inauod 16 July 1954 eu tolgo, ExiTod ky gun ta Rons

coming soon Doiye, 20 Euly 1954s accompaniea by his wifer

SHUKOHT TOLI/. Lubache, coperted by alt from Germino fes

Tolso on 2 August 795r

copitale of Euroze on 20 Way 1954%

dipirat will futila a confidential misator, the nature of mich

ho mas not aule to ciscover.

On 16 cure 2954, Sunjoed coparted.

for toisgo oy at accompanied by has wife and no chilenen os

cofinitare repeelerion.

250

arrived an Rome Il June 195k, coning tron Jepes by aise Fo

mes accompanies by hin rife und thoy icols leagings at the Pension

Padstslio.

Subjecó mas aleo raported as arciving on 22 fure I554

---

