i-10eo-t0023] , LUCONFIDENTIAL = LJ aeUKer
Mc YEAR NUMBER DOC. NO. NEW DOCUMENT RECORD
ilkee = Tear octons for Ditons and Stl
PE leer | o3<,  Boadol — | Piiticedigetity Ta
‘DOCUMENT DESCRIPTION [Circle apprapriote) (G0 CHARACTERS) oav_[ MONTH | YEAR
CABLE = FORM
Fy
2] emo" sere Die 323s4e OF | NN |
REPORT ___AIRGRAM
FROM/ORIGINATOR (30 CHARACTERS) a [TO RECIPIENT (30 CHARACTERS)
(5-2
3 Dee
‘GIASS_ [WHERE LOCATED (10 CHARACTERS) | REFERRED BY (10 CHARACTERS) | 0007 [OO FLE NUMBER (20 CHARACTERS)
4
SUBIECT (60 CHARACTERS)
on
5 WseA REQUEST KOAFGHAN inTEQEW.
DAY_[_MONTH | YEAR
mee Date
6 review VAL review Ve [AUG St
Determinations:
—— A, Release in full text —— E. Sustai
— 8B. Release in sanitized form —— F. Sustain
7 | —=c. Deny in toto —— G. Release additional information
—— D. Deter decision to (Speci
—— H. Coordinate with (Speci
DEFER DECISION TO (IO CHARACTERS) _ | COORDINATE WITH (1 CHARACTERS) | ca
8
SIGNATURE OF 6O/lMS/FPIG REVIEWING OFFICER
EXEMPTIONS AND PROVISIONS CLAIMED (40 CHARACTERS)
9 ~ oa ra £0. 12056
01 82 69 04 05 06 87C ease
EXEMPTIONS AND PROVISIONS CILAINED TO PROTECT THE FOMOWING
OIA PA
1. Classification ®) 0) (OO)
——— 2, Information from licison with a Foreign Government (&) (3) aa
_—— 3. Information pertaining to a liaison relationship with a Foreign Government (b) (3) aa
——— 4 Information which would/could identify the source ©) 3) aq
——— 5. Information perte to a source (b) (3) aa
6. Information pertaining to intelligence methods &) (3) aa)
= 7. Location of CIA overseas installation ) (@) aM
——— 8. Location of unacknowledged domestic installation {b) (3) aa
9. Nome of CIA employes ©) @) ORD)
10. File number ©) @) 0M
10 | —— 1}. Pseudonym (b) (3) aa
a 12. Cryptonym ©) @) ORO)
—t< 13. Internal organizational data (&) (3) agnm
—— 14. Nome of an FBI agent eM) MO)
—— 15. FBI file number (b) (2) aa
—— 16. Privacy of other individual (b) (6) (b)
= 17. Does not pertain to request
19. Other (Specify in line 11)
TERARKS iF OWWER WAS CHECKED ABOVE) [0 CHARACTERS)
VW
SIGNATURE /OFFICE OF DO COMPONENT REVIEWING OFFICER
REMARES (160 CHARACTERS)
12 zo-2
DES: aniqin [wn aries) oF row 4S, Di@-Zauuel eq ov 3Ei
zor’
e iq (tel 661389), oy Mev ae. ALL DENIED
This Form Unclontied Unies Th Clonsicolion Checked
{nd The nfemerion blow it complete
14 ci ys
Sect onoR
Dav From

See 3OOTA toivins

‘Gascartemninous

Mconrinentiat

‘lv

M1 seerer
