# 104-10071-10184

## Page 1

104-10071-10184

110 J/ED/S

• 12 JAN 57

• DIRECTOR,

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

S-E-C-R-E-T

JAN 12 1637Z 57

18 33797

COP,

s/C

21, C1/OPS, CV/IC, F1, FI/OPS, F1/REM 3, FATRI

PP 2, PP/OPS, DD/1, AD/CI,

TO DIR

INTEL LAFFORD CONTROL

ROUT INE

CITE ROSE 4252

20-9

1. AMERIGO

FERENZI VERY UPSET DE REALE CASE: HIS FEELIG TORA BETIER

PARTY LOYALTY AND PAST WARMRELATIONS WITH REALE, CONFIDED TO SOURCE HIS AND

OTHER TOP CONNIE ADMIN LEADERS CONCERN RE ECONCAO CARACE TO FOI iS RESULT

R DEFECTION. IN PAST R WAS NOT ONLY CHIEF ENTIRE NETWORN PARTY CONDERCIAL DEALS

WITH PERFECT KNOWLEDGE SLIGHTEST WORKINGS THIS MECHANISIA, BUT STILL INVOLVED IN

TWO OF LARGER CONPERCIAL COMPANIES CONNIE ORISIN WITH HOS MILAN AND ACTIVITY

RUNNING INTO BILLIONS LIRE.

2. EVEN IF R RUN OUT THIS ACTIVITY TOO MANY THREADS REMAIN HIS HANDS AND TOO

MANY PEOPLE FEEL IN DANGER BEING COMPROMISED FOR THERE NOT TO BE SERIOUS RESULT-

AHT FINANCIAL DAMAGE, FURTHER, BECAUSE TOGLIATTI LOVE OF LETTER ERITING, R

POSSESS LARGE PERSONAL FILE WHICH, IF MATTERS BECORE EABITTERED, COULD BE

REVEALED WITH ENORMOUS DAMAGE MORALE.

3. TERENZI STILL HOPES R RECOURSE TO PARTY CONTROL COPBAISSION WILL GE

ACCEPTED AJO WAY OF PACIFICATION FOURNO.

#., FELICE CHILANTI TOLD SOURCE R HAS ASKED BILENCHI (FORMER DIRECTOR

"HUOVO GIORNALE" FLORENCE) IF HE VOULD GORK FLTH MIN IN FUBLISHIAG DEV PERICDICAL

S-E-R-E-T

IT IS FORBIDDEN TO MAKK A COPY OF UNS MISLAGS

Capy Na

12 Jan.5.7

43-432-413

09561

---

## Page 2

100090г

DATE

TO

FOA!

ACTION:

INTO !

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

S-E-C-R-E-T

ROUTING

PAGE 2

(Ron 4252 1N 33797

20-9

PRECEDENCE

SLANTED TO HIS ANTISOV-MARXISM POSITION. THIS IMPLIES R HAS AGGRESSIVE IDEAS.."

AND WANTS PLACE SELF AÏ HEAD DISSIDENT COMMIE

GROUP OF WHICH THERE ALREADY

ARE SUPPORTERS (RAIMONDI, BRUNO FORTICHIARI, ET AL).

5. COMERSION 1, B 3, COI 3 JAN.

02

END OF MESSAGE

018 POs

N TO

S-E-C-R-E-T

KE A COPY O YES MESSACE

12 Jan.57

49-4-32-413

Copy Na

ODUCTI

1ON

---

