# 104-10423-10003

## Page 1

1104-10423-10003

LIST (INCOMPLETE) OF REQUESTS FROM THE FEDERAL BUREAU OF

INVESTIGATION FOR ASSISTANCE AND INFORMATION FROM THE CIA

26 November 1963

Subject: Richard Thomas GIBSON

(Paraphrase) • During the

26 November, (INANITION/ 17) passed to the

FBI representative in Bern a report

(quoted in full in the cable).

The FBI

representative immediately notified

ELMARD (P) and after discussing the con-

ent of the repor

LMARD would contaght wae greed that

soonest.

ELMARD emphasized the utmost

importance the United States Government

attached to follow-up

of this matter

ELMARD received prompt answers to initial

questions and arranged to meet with

officials in company with

the Fbi representative in Bern.

[BERN 2492 (IN 68312), 26 November 1963]

28 November 1963

subjectioned soon to doxico made

3 October 1963.

dod ars band epost about five thous and

(DIR 85654, 28 November 1963]

---

## Page 2

13-00000: 255

1196

isalsa instructive ta note

that CIA Director John McCONE telephoned

FBI DiXECTOT HOOVER an the morning of No-

resent anted to after he the chA ch

that the

giving the fBI full support, specticamy.

Noffered to make: 'CIA's: operational resources?'

in

available to the Bureau:

The Committee has seen no evidence that

the FBI-asked the CIA to conduct, an investi

gation or gather infomacion on the assassit

nation case;

but middle-level CIA personnel

did routinely provide the Bureau with infor

mation that came to their attention in the

assassination case.u

Footnoto

:96

page 39, 1];

ComeRt

Herewichancincomplete list.of requests from, the By

forgassastance and information from che GIAn The list speaks

for

itself

26 November: 19632

Subject

Richard Thomas, GIBSON

(Paraphraso During the

270737N

afternoon of^ 26

November INANITION 1? passed to che FBI

representative in Bern a report (quoted

in full in tho cablo: The FBI roproson

tative immediately notified ELMARD (P) S

and after discussing the content of rhe

report at was agreed that ELMARD would

CONRaCELINANITION SOOneSt. ELMARD em:

Sphasized the utmost importance the US 4Y

Government attached

to follow-up of this

matter. ELMARD received prompt answers

¿co-initial questions and arranged to meet

with YNANTTTON7Z0, INANITION/o in company

with the FBI representative in Bern.

[BERN 2492 (IN 68312), 26 November 1963

28 November 1963

HER WIN

Subject:.

Rumorod $5,000 bank deposit.

made by OSWALD upon return from Mexico

on 3' October 1963

The FBI has just levied on us an official

frequest for.

full information on source

and origin of rumor about five thous and

dollars

bank deposit.

(DIR 85654, 28 November 1963]

---

## Page 3

13.00900

28: November 1963

Subjectin

Interrogation of Gilberto ALVARADO:

The FBI liaison

officer (S. PAPICH) offi

cially advises that the FBI requests CIA

turn ALVARADO over to Mexican authorities

and that CIA request the Mexican authori.

Cres to interrogate ALVARADO in detail.

FBI reports that it understands that the

Mexican authorities have a capability of

Dotygraphing and requeses that CiA re?:

-quest Mexican authorities that he be poly:

Braphed

The Fir expressed & desire to have the re

sults of the interrogation as soon as possi

61o and that the Legal Aerache bo kept

adrised

of developments

(DIR: 85663

November 1963]

29 November 1963

Subjecss

Ricardo SANTOS

Mr PAPICH referred me to DIR 85665, 28 November

por chat the thra secretary on the cuban t

Embassysin The Hague, Ricardo SANTOS, has a pro

CASTRO brocher in the United States. He stated me

that he would appreciate our checking our tries

or taking such other steps as may be indicated

to provide

tho Buroau with the identity of the

brother said to be in the Mis

(Memorandum From CI/SIG to Chief, WH/3,

29

Novembers 196311

December :1963

Subject: Chinese Communist and CASTRO Plot.

2uo Sha 1a25nges

At 0900 on 9 December 1963" Mr. PAPICH of the

FBI called and advised that the Bureau had a

commont cacion from their Miami field office.

setting forth information which' had been re-

ceived in a memorandum from our office ing

Miami concerning a report which had been re

ceived fron e Westorn- diplomat alloging that

the assassination of President Kennedy was the

result of a plot prepared and executed jointly

by the Chinese communists and CASTRO through

incermediaries.

Mr. PAPICH stated that the Bureau would

like

to evaulate

this information if

possible

said the Bureau was

very much

interested in

identifying the

source and it would

appreciate

any information we can give on where and hoi

his diplomat got this information since i

would help the Bureau to evaluate this informa

tron.

He said that the Bureau would find the

---

## Page 4

13-000,00

identity

source

and possible access

80 the:

source

diffin this country?

i nostr

helpful:

[Memorandum for the Record,

1963: Subject:

Lee Harvey OSkAl December

18; December: 1963

Subjecte

Nomenclature of Weapon, possibly

owned by Lee Harvey OSWALD."

10024475019

mOn:

18 December 1963 a-representative of your

Bureau requested claritying information about

certain Soviet nomenclature believed to refer

tora firearm once possessed in the Soviet Union

by Lee

OSWALD.

We were

asked. to determine what kind of veapon

Quned by lee Haxvey OSWALD. 1214

January 1964

seen des

30429

Che By on December 21190nd teter shien

-1963, a letter which

had veer orwarded to friend of his named.

Jose Antonio Juan. Mr. Juan had received the

tester from his son living in Cubas

In the loctor the statement was made

mitris

known here that RUBINSTEIN was here a liction

Less chan a year ago visiting a Me. PRANSKL

owner ofa shop dealing in courist artietes,

tacaredion Prado Street between. Animas and

Irocadero opposite the Sevilla. Biltmore."

through available sources

negepossible relating to the above quoted statement

in an effort to resolve the allegation that

Jack-L RUBY has possibly visited cuba since

1959 and has connections there:

1ga.C9

TFBT Memorandum to

co che DDP,

dated. & January

1964 Subject: Jack L.- RUBY,

g January

• 1964

Subject:

214135328

Lee Harvey OSWALD

Attached is a copy of a memorandum from the...

Federal Bureau of Investigation on Lee Haxvey

OSWALD dated 31 December -1963

and an

enclosure

to the memorandum containing names and addresses

found in OSWALD's address book and other papers

at the

time of his arrest in Dallas, texas.

will be noted that the Bureau has

asked us

10

---

## Page 5

13.00000:

determine whether any of the listed

names

addresses

or telephone numbers have. in the

past been connected with the

Soviet, intelli

gence services

Memoxandun for Chief. OS/SRS,

"dated 9 January

1963; Subject Lee Harvey OSWALD J:

January 1964

our Chief of station In Mexico dispatched cable MEXI

SCIN 982730 a dusing of a request on the part of the legal

Attache for the development of information concerning one Daniel

¡soLIs knowledge of ROJAS,

whose name appears to be Ylario ROJAS

34266

Villanuevas

ma 31 yearvold Mexican citizen residing in Guadalajara

0330440446428202622080005

and infomation concerning the names of Cubans appearing n

alleged:

notebook said to be in the possession of soris, and an

7583

leged oticialsot the American Government, said to have been:

contact with ost to or Cozonel taled Muen wA

Memoranoun

for therecor

dated 15 saman

19047

Subj

February 1964

Subject

Eladio

ROJAS Villanueva:

The regal Attache In Mexico City would prefer chat the

COS tell LuiS ECHEVARRIA, acting minister of gobernacio, name of

subject and chac With ROJAS: agreement plan to give him a polygraph

and promise ECHEVARRIA a brief statement of

the resukts of the rest

The Legal Attache in Mexico Chey would prefer, have, then

polygraph given in Mexico City; he could, if CIA Strongly prefers

set their headquarters. and subject's agreement to go

12329037AE

to Texas.

HAD AS ONE ARRE

(MEXT- 3147 (IN 75081) February 19641

WHER

12 February 1964

Legal Attache (in Mexico City) requests the following

additional questions be put to Daniel solis:

verty te solis has received to letters

recently, from Eladio ROJAS Villanueva aka Eladio

VILLANUEVA regarding notebook.

---

## Page 6

3-00000

AS SOLIS, to forward notebook if found to:

COME O JOHNSON Consutado Americano, Guaga

ajara, Jalisco

lesters in possession of VILLANUEVA Lade

cate

he has in Cozumel wich Daniel SOLIS for

Leas three months in 1963. Can SOLISTe

call dates?

ASK" SOLIS if VILLANUEVA was in contact with

Cubans or Americans while in Cozumel. Ask him

hoW VILLANUEVA occupied his time

(MEX1-8194 (IN 18129) 12. February 196401

25 February 1964

subject Jacker RuBY

moroue vo appreciated te you could bones

advise or any

incormation avalabie-to yource

Cond to von fy chis-gravel by Ruby y

Memorandon to Masaranston WAS COTTa detod 25 February 19642.

Exon ClarK DE ANDERSON

Megal detache Mexico City subject:

Sen Sace

Jack Lo

RUBY :]

13 April 1964

-Subjected Lee Harvey OSWALD'S Access to Classtfied

Intormation about the viz:

Reference is made to your lecter dared 13

April 1964, Captioned Lee- Harvey OSWALD ADE

nal Security

Russia cubal and to the

teachment

which contained statements made

one Eugene J. HOBBS,

HMC, USN.. Your lette

requested certain information regarding sub

344/E28969

gect's Marine assignment at the Naval Air

Atsugi, Japan, -

- 3п

-1957 and -1958

Memorandun for Director

Federa

Bureau of Investigation;

Sante

dared 13 May 1964,.

from CIA.

---

## Page 7

13-00000

10 June 1964:

Subject

BLESS

Lee Harvey OSWALD.

believed this allegation that

12202067125

OSWALD was in Tangier, Morocco, should

invost gated and you are requested to

conduce che necessary inquiries, if pos:

blooresolve the allegation

_Inasmuch

42x0k

as appears that the President's Commi

1250073

62832207209

ssion contemplates the issuance of its re

porcin the near future, it is believed

5168490403002390-256

this matter Should bephandled expeditiously,

Memorandun: to Directors Central intelligence Agency, Attention!

Deputy Director plans, dated 10 June: 1964 Erom Director

28 July 1964

Subject Lee Harvey OSWALD:

we one foregoing factors i would

bo,.

apprectated lE you would review material

avaltablo to you concerning the activity of

Radio Moscow 1128-

in offore to taentity the

0-m buse broadcas saferred to by OSWALD

inche aforementioned documents.

We would also appreciate advice as to the

s20ac429602020

2332

telephone number in 1959 and the current

telephone number of Radio Moscow and we would

appreciate advise as to whether or not tete-

phong number v 3658s was Tisted In the 1959

Moscow:

Telephone Directory.

TEL..9

would appear to us that XE OSWALD partici-

pated

In agradio program.

Radio Moscow,

this

fact would have been known to

the KGB and 3 Te

rexen

co such participation would likely have

---

## Page 8

13-00000

been contained in OSWALD'S KGB ELle.

25mE2233402349

or would be appreciated if you would question

NOSENKO in lighe of the foregoing observations

In this regard it is suggestod that NOSENKO not

be informed of aswALD's possession of the name,

address dana telephone number of Lov SETYAEV. "

3:2x-25226

(Memorandum for Director, Central Intelligence Agency, Attention:

Deputy Director Plans: Subject:

Lee Harvey, OSWALD:

Taternal

Security

Russia

Cuba; from Direccor,

FBI. 12

---

