104-10192-10074

RETURN TO CiA

aoe Background Use Only
:. Do Not Reproduce
; #
fe)
3 JUNI960
22
\o [osi26, 758
--' FROM: tondon,) England REPORT NUMBER: i
+ NUMBER 2 “NUMBER OF
OF PAGES: ENCLOSURES
- REPORT - REPORT

MADE BY: _ Leroy T. Wadsworth

APPROVED BY: Stewart F. Rolnick

°

+ DISTRIBUTION BY COPY TO:
-—W&ahington 1
Havana 1

Registry

o} 23
onrernarrna( stom |secrzeN: [ea] REFERENCES:

: SOURCE OFERATIONAL DATA AND COMMENTS

- geoneT CONTROL

area

- th, S. GFFIM

“y

SECRET CONTRO"/US OFFICIALS gol

“cor!

* par R10 PRS wjq_ peo-13
Ul


cere

ae NUPORT NO:108/784/0774 pate; 2m June, 1960.

COUNTRY: CUBA

< SUBJECT: Cudan anti-CASTRO Movements and their Relations with
* the Roman Catholis Church in Cuba

. ATE OF INFORMATION: Late April-May 1960.

SQURCE: .ppom a gource who has reported reliably in the past.

REMARKS:

SeeRET GOLTROL
GS. GFiTIALS: GH

SECRET AT)



, 0° 8 SECRET

oe
: pastaei TMI Tee
i)

fay 1960.
CUAL

POLE Waly St ‘SW:

Cuban Antiacasit swith

he Roman Sathclio Church in Guba. .

Lu

le 4t the presont tine the most effective anti-2aSTRO orsanisations in Cuba

appear to de the ‘oviniento de la Domooracia Cristiana Gud. = Hoveuont of

Christics, Denes2cy) and the tiovimiente do Recuperacion Revoluotonaria (:LR.Re =

aunt of Revolutionary Recovery), whese arganteations enf aims aro vory
Both

sindlor end botwoon whem thud ia a. considerable overleyping of neuboras
novenents are :vooiving sone support from the Churok,, the 1D.G+ boing actively
‘enoouraged ahd sareotod by tho Josults. ‘vho rain plank in its policy 1a to
deanna froo oloctiosis which it considers to be the beat romns of witing
anticOASTRO olonentia in Guba. The failure of .§del C.STRO Ruz, the Cuban
Prime iiinister, to hold thoas elootiona it regards as the rioat vulnerable

sudjoct on which to atteck hire

2, The 'isD.Ge 4a lod by Toso Ignacte RASOO y Bersudoz who was recently forced

to seek asylum and esorpe from Cubos Ee is now in Kew York where ho is

oxpocted to take part ina meeting of Cuban exile leazers which 1% is hoped will

be hold there in the near futuro. It is hoped, bd," Cuban oxilos, that this

qeoting will be attended by Colonel Ranon BARQIDN, tho ‘prosont Cuban inbassador

in Paria, who 1s shortly expected to defect, ‘end on whoa the exiles’ aro pinning

groat faith os a futuro loador. 5

3. Tho 1.R-R-, which is also known 43 tho Novinicnto de Rescate dol 26 do

Julio (Movement for the Recovery of tho géth. of Culy), is composed ef former

supporters of Fidel CAS FRO Rus who havo becone disillusioned with his policies.

These incJude exilos and senior Govornwnt officiels still in Cuba. It was”

we Head of tho Cuban

el

originally inspired by Cer tain Pedro DIZ Lanz, the Zorn

: ee id Forse, and inoludes such pooplo as Hanuel JBI E Bueza, the fornor

7" ad officiol of the Cuben Instituto Racdonel do le Reforca igroria (IsteRede =

Were?

aes Rational Institute of Jgrarian Reform), But elthoush DL Lens eroated tho

oy ‘RRs, not oll its mothers cre prepared to désapt

2 1 » It
eg Ate: yen 3

+ 2 ee 7 BS. MARGIT ae
ve wy SECRET RB -ROfORS ei — 3 ™
whee! ae

\e


on

“SECRET .

aize

tactics at prosont arv to hit GST throuch encouraging the workers not to pay
the"voluntary"g of their wazes de:andod by the Sovernsent and to encourage
industrial organisations to resist nationalisaticn to tho bitter end. The LLRRe
elao stronrly opposes. any oountor-revolutionory attexpts by rorzer PLTISTA
supporters, such os Carlos i/RQUEZ Sterling, at prosent in Washington, and
Genoral Jose Hlouterto PIORALL, now leader of Cuban oxtlea in the Louiniean
Rdopublic. ‘The M.R.Re hopes shertly to bo Joined by norbors of the fortier bant
of followers of Captain sorustemex who won recently sontorcod to- twenty yeers'

‘Anprioonniont for cppesing tie CLSRO re::iZiee

de’ Both tho Ii:RsRe ond the :iD.C. have wuffered fron tho United States
Governaent's rocont restriction on Cuban oxile ectivitios in Florida. Lt tho
sane tine, Fidel C1S7RO has boca aware of the Jesuit support for tho 7i.D.0.
Thia haa provoked hin to the point of .aminz the Josuit Vieu-Provinoial, Potro
Ovferine RUIZ, that fron the beginning of Hay 1960 all nonuban Jesuits would. -

have 90 daya to leavo the country or vlso heve to faco expulsions

Se. Tho Church intonds to resiat this ordor erd has instructed the Catholic
Aetion Group to prepare dononstrations ccainst C.STRO's decision to oxpel
thao Josuits, Waren :io:bors of the Catholic J.ction Group aro to tako a

ppotanent part in those denonatrations.

SECRET

