# 104-10129-10155

## Page 1

104-10129-10155

2883 23 AUG 60 C1

476L

"9'ADG 60

• SATE

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SERLEI

ROUTING

5

DIRECTOR

15-20°

(FRANKFURT

"'LETONI C/EE 3"

AU0 9 21027 60

COP, CDS, C/C1, C/F| 2, C/SR 3, S/C 2

ROUTINE

ADDED: C/CI

20-20

* IN 35458

DIR CITE ERAS956

RYBAT

20%0

TO GRAN 4942(-34582) 9

COL ROSS HAS GIVEN US COPY FOLLOVING CABLE CLASSIFIED CONFIDENTIAL

I DESI USAREUR ON RECENT DEFECTION FROM HIS UNIT JI3TH ME GROUP

TO THE EAST$

"ASE OF INTEREST TO GEN VAN NATTA.

•PERSONAL INVESTIBATION RELATIVE TO SLOBODA INDICATES FOLLOVINGS

"CID. ACCESS TO CLASSIFIED INFO LIMITED TO ICH OS-5S PRIORITY:

III COLLECTION OF PUBLICATIONS•

- 62) SUBJECTS DUTIES CONFINED TO CLASSIFYING, FILING AND LISTENS

OF PUBLICATIONS COLLECTED THROUGN OVERT MEANS. HE DID NOT CONTACT

HE DID NOT

SOURCES FOR MATERIAL. HE DID SOME TRANSZATINE OF DOCUMENTS.

DUTY OF THIS SOLDIER WAS LEAST SENSITIVE IN UNIT®

"13) DISCUSSION WITH CAPT KELNIKOST, @-8, V CORPS, INDICATES

THAT SUCHICT VAS OFFICER. IN THE POLISH INTELLIGENCE PRIOR TO DEFECTING

FROM POLAND. CAPT MELNIKOFF FURTHER STATED THAT THIS WAS COMMON

KNOWLEDGE AT FORT BRAGG. NO INDICATION OF THIS IN RECORDS THIS KOS.

"FILE. HAS BEEN REQUESTED FROM CRE HOLABIRD.

"CA) PERSONAL OPINION IS THAT SURJECT CAN GIVE NOTHING O

SECREE

TO:

ind Use Chy

eproduce

3-520

---

## Page 2

CLASSIFIED INESSAGE

20,20

[FRAN, 5000

SECRET

PAGE - 3 IN 35758

•VALUE TO SOVIETS EXCEPT FENSONRLITY DATA RE GAMP KING PERSONNEL.:

LIS DATA I FEEL THEY GET ANTUAY SEON PEOPLE THAY THEY PLACE IN

CAMP KING-MARIENFELDE STREAM•

"15S DUTIES DID HOT BRING SUBJECT IN CONTACT COLL AND CI

FERSOHESE.

"(6)

BELIEVE GEN VAN NATTA DESIRES INFO BE TRANSHITTED TO

ASSI:"

END OF MESSAGE

C/S COMONTE

513TH MIS WOULD PROVIDE FURTHER INFO ON DETESTION OR SLOBODI

Igo

---

