# 104-10229-10419

## Page 1

104-10229-10419

A. VARGAS. M. D.

DIS RAFT AT AVENUE

MIALEAH. FLORIDA

MONE 600.8408

Copy of Elscharge susary of l

This 36 year old lite nale was admitted to the hospital beçause

of secondary

Gnon1a.

In Docember of 1965 ho had a cystectory for

carcinona ot the bladder.

Ine ureters were then transplanted into

the.roctua.to'torm a nou blodder..

The bonol mas cut off above this

point,

the sigmold was frod.llzed and brought down antorior to what

Bould

be the new bladder possing it through the anal sphincter so

that in effect he had a nor anua placed anterior to the ner bladder.

The new bladdor has as its soint of exit what had been phystological

Inis surgery was done by Dis. Pubin, Winton and Needell.

Approximately one week or 10 daja later he

developed a mass in the

risht lover quadrant and

I sas called to sec him and the mass in the

richt lover quadrant ass diagnosed as pericecal abocess and 1t vas

opened and drainod.

the mess subsided and this situation clared.

up completely.

Approximately Is monthe prior to this last

hospitalization, he ras resdal-ted to Jackson Memorial Mosolial

because he was passing sone blood through the new rectum and ho

had had a drop in lisb.

Ee also developed numerous perianal fistulae

and he was sassing gas and leces through the fistulous openings as

seld as throuch the ponis. I ves arain called and elected to do

a transverse colostomy to cicar up these flatulas.

This was done

and the colostony nas functioning perfectly.

It has resulted in

the drying up of all the perineal flotulae.

The patlent came

to

ny offico the day. before ad ission to the hospital and on this

occcsion.he conplained. of botra nauseated and not being able to

leop anything on his stonach and of feeling very roak.

He wag

very pale.

Els Hib. done In the office was read as 455.

He was

then admitted to Hialeah Sosoltal and a G.I. geries revealed the

c•istence oi a duodenal ulcer:

All other studies were essentially

negative other than the persiotence of a fistula between the new

rectum and the penis.

Sinco aduisgion to the hospital he has

received transfusions and has been placed on diet and medication.

He has improved renarkably, feels very well now and la being

discharged to be followed in the offico.

A. Vargas, H.D.

UNDATED: Received fron

FILE:

201

file

9-124-25/5-2

on 16 May 1966

---

