# 104-10169-10089

## Page 1

104-10169-10089

Return de Firminach

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

POUTING

* HES TO PIE NO-

SECRET

PHOM UNWAVE

UST TO ARANCH D

ACTIONs

1W

EXTRiD COPXIADVANCE COPY TUSED TO CS/DO AT 2285 P)

INO

DCI,

D/DCl,

VI.

EVDIR, DOP,

CS/RF,

FILE.

ADDP,

CA/PEG,

CA/PROP.

GS/00OPs 500 ke

N/D •

Cla CI/PS,

F1/5PG, hH 8, WH6 32.

SECRET 209252

28 JAN BE 3802 66 IN 4°

DIR INFO PACT LANT BARR CITE-WAVE 8798

wH/cles,

INTEL TYPIC

SUPDATA. NO PROJECT. AMBLINK-I FROM AMRAZZ-I SHO RECEIVED INFO

FROM ANDRES NAZARIO SARGEN ON 13 AND 2E JANUARY.... FIELD COMMENT

BASED ON UFG 7864. RID NO INDEX. FILED 2818252

REPORT CLASS SECRET CONTROLLED DISSEM NO FOREIGN DISSEM

•CUBA

SUSU: COORDINATION OF SENE, MIRR AND RECE ON PLANS TO STAGE AN

ATTACK ON CUBA IN EARLY FEBRUARY

D01: 13 AND 285 JANUARY 1966

PADAS UNITED STATES, MIAMI (18 AND 27 JANUARY 1966)

UFG 7929

IW COMMENT.

WWH/REG

RELEASING IV

DATE DISTRIBUTED,

28 JANUARY 1966

04137

TOSS D8-315/00316-66

X I ROUTINE

PRIORITY

BASED ON:

UFG 7920

NP (AMRAZZ/1)

LIAISONI.

*

ENGLUORD FROM TONATI

US

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy No.

да,

10109

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduo

2/00

---

## Page 2

CLASSIPE TO PUI NO -

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

• SECRET

MO MOMMOO

WenD anna

LOVING

INFO

IX RID COPY

FILL, ADOP, CAR. CATEG. CAPROP. QVOPS ONCE A NO. MINI

PAGE?

IN 43868

SOURCES A CUBAN EMIGRE WITH EXCELLENT CONTACTS IN THE MOVIMIENTO

REVOLUCIONARIO DEL PUEBLO (MPP, REVOLUTIONARY MOVEMENT OF THE

PEOPLE). HE HAS BEEN AN ACCURATE REPORTER ON THIS ORGANIZATION

ANO ON GENERAL EMIGRE POLITICAL DEVELOPMENTS SINCE ABOUT MID-1962.

IN COMMENTA

RELEASING I WO

DATE DISTRIBUTED:

TOCS

ROUTINE

BASED ON

I PRIORITY

LIAISON:

ERGLUDED FROM AUTOMATI

SECRET

BOWNERADINA AND

DEGLANAPIOATION

Y OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED,

" "Copy No.

03

---

## Page 3

SECRET

no then Facid An

SECRET

CENTE

AL INTELLIDENCI AGENCY.

Intelligence Information Cable

ROUTINE

COUNTRY CUBA

DATE CE

19 AN: 20 JAALARY 1966

TDCS D8-315/00316-66

DESTR. 21 MENRY 1966

SULECT

@ COORDINATION OF SAFE, MIRA AND RECE ON PLANS TO STAGE AN

ATTACK ON CUBA IN EARLY FEBRUARY

DATE ACO VANTED STATES, MIAMI 618 AND 29 JALARY 1966)

# 43068

PILD REPORT NO. UPG 1920

AND

APPRAISAL

A CUBAN EMIGRE' WITH EXCELLENT CONTACTS IN THE MOVIMIENTO REVOLUTIONARIO

DEL PUEBLO (MRP, REVOLUTIONARY MOVEMENT OF THE PEOPLE), ME MiS BEEN AN

AGCURATE REPORTER ON THIS ORGANIZATION AND ON GENERAL. EMIGRE POLITICAL

DEVELOPMENTS SINCE ABOUT MID-1962.

at wiperla

- 1: ON ZE JANUARY 1966 AN OFFICER OF THE SEGUNDO FRENTE

NACIONAL DEL ESCAMBRAY (SINE,. SECOND NATIONAL FRONT OF THE ESCAMBRAY),

SAID THAT ARMANDO FLEITES DIAZ, MILITARY COORDINATOR OF THE SENE,

HAD BEEN MEETING WITH UNNAMED REPRESENTATIVES OF THE MOVIMIENTO

INSURRECCIONAL DE RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONACA (MIRR, INSURREC-

TIONAL MOVEMENT. FOR REVOLUTIONARY RECOVERY) AND REPRESENTACION

CUBANA EN. EL EXILIO (RECE, CUEAN REPRESENTATION IN EXILE) TO PLAN AN

ATTACK ON CUBA WHICH WILL PROBABLY TAKE PLACE IN EARLY FEBRUARY.

12. IN MID-JANUARY THE SFNE WAS DISCUSSING TWO AILTERNATIVE

ACTION PLANS AGAINST CUBA; AN ATTACK ON AN UNSPECIFIED TARGET ON

prohibited by law.

SECRET

D FORETON DISSEM CONTIOLSO DISSEN

any mander to an unauthorized person

deous

STAYIR DIA ARMYJACH: NAVY... AM IS SECON

NSA

AID USIA OC ONI OC ON 00 :,

CIANNCE ERLINES CUSTOMS BORDER PATROL.

MOAST GUARD

EXO

L

---

## Page 4

I FEE BOSTI CATTIERS AREN

SECRET

1i 336ô i

20100+315/00316-8t.

T. 4: 00,5

THE CONST, ANO 602) AN IN INÃE PURINES AI MAY SOME HE!

FINANCIAL SITUATION OF THE SENE WAS CRITICAL, AND IT WAS HOPED

THAT THE PUBLICITY SHICH WOULO RESULT FROM A SUCCESSFUL OPERATION

HOULD STIMULATE CONTRIBUTIONSO.

3• (FIELD COMMENT.. A RECENT REPORT FROM THE SAME SOURCE

REFORTED THAT FLEITES PLANNED TO TAKE ACTION AGAINST CUBA IN EARLY

FEBRUARY, T0508-31570046-66" FROM AN INDEPENDENT SOURCE,

REPORTED THAT THE MIRR PLANNED TO STAGE A RAID ON THE NORTH COAST.

OF MATANZAS PROVINCE ON 6. JANUARY,. WITH MONGERS OF. THE-30-NOVEMBER

REVOLUTIONARY MOVEMENT (MRIN) AND REVOLUTIONARY DEMOCRATIE ALLIANCE

(ARD) PARTICIPATINO. THE RAID WAS POSTPONED WHEN THE ARO MEMBER

REFUSEO TO BECOME INVOLVED WITH THE MRIN MEMBER.)

H.. FIELD DISSEME CINCSO, CINCLANT, COMKWESTFOR, MIAMI REPS

OF STATE, FBI, IGNSA CUSTOMS, BORDER PATROL, USCG.

20/53

not wittin"

it frie

SCOO BEAGE SONIO

Two 2039

He ven

34.:

#10

DY: 01

SECRET

JACEND OF MESSAGE

409,55

TILDEN OSSEN CONTROLLED DISSON 9T

he "

490,944

---

