# 104-10171-10021

## Page 1

104-10171-10021

DISPATCH

Chief of station, MANAVE

QASSARAN

S-2-CR-E-8

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

DRE

PROCESSING

BASILO PA 1N0011

BLALGLABILAS DISA

3 A837 MACT

8 ROM

Chlof, AF Divison

SUBACT

CMZIP/(reratlonl

ACTION REQUIRLO REIEPLNCCS

ARS PTI

205

o Tou requested all available

who talked to ldentity 1.

Identity 2 net sith

Cuban offlelal In

Cuba under a sara conduct a rechent.

no see wil

no. lad rocently departed fron

During the conversation

talkai a host his uncle, an old school frlend

of tient and, also Subed to ted an or are on trap enchal also

Both the uncle are

"a or vere in disarroenent. with

the CAS:O lorren-ent and there mao sone l'elenile. tat ose or boti vere willin

Although tile point sar toucted eir coliquely, Identity 2 cathered

that subject wanted to yet his father lito t':a country with one assurance of

support. The question was not asked direceir ari no comitments vere made or

Implied,

Aste? thle relatively short talk ln ler!!er 1's offico, Subjoct and

Identity 2 sent into a conforence room ibare le raw Idestity 2 papera dealing

the organisation and purposo of the Dad (wich

1d he woald work with the studente ln the fusso pAyTo already arallola) en

also expiremood a me

to so to suitserland for the purpose of Infamir the International Red Cross

group there or the inhumane treatment of Cuber palltical priboners.

5o In martine, Identity 2 had a distines impression that subjoet had sos

roally acompllahed

the primary objectim or hi, oia1t, and na ho saa roturala,

to Minni, the foruroing, was passed to léantier lo

6. For further Informaten as Subject TelE So tilVE 8369, 9 DEt 611

DIa-1i75, 12 O6t 618 and DIR-23974a Ile dor Li. 139o, Dee GOpy of GATA-1631

(attachmost 2).

Dlatributions

2 - OCS, MFRATE,

OASSPAICAZN

SS-CR-T-T

2 Jan 1962

DISTATOY SYMENA NO PUREBER

₽

UPOW-787

MEARQUUAIDRS TLE MUMBLA

201-305133

FEB 19::

---

