# 104-10173-10113

## Page 1

104-10173-10113

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

DISPATCH

Chlei, la Division

CLASSAAICATION

SSCRET

chief, & Hidalas

Cler or station, desic 9151

LODEROS E

Tero del

AỊS TRÁM OF NOON

PROPSSING. 911.00

MARIO KIR NOT

NO INSETHI REQUIRED

DET GOALATED DESE

i (phonets):

tho

Foinurded under separate cover an Altachment A are to LtiVOY

tranacripts of 12 lovembor 1965 and to lusivor innicripts ar 13 lovember

190} which foniguriars my consider for tranamittal to

74:3

2.

Kuwarded under separate cover ne Attachment B la a photognint

go shoves clo too pay a mad, cocondia, the e on

to be a northe trpe:

ho Statton recognt son, borever; that Sulvect ourher

anly clatnal to be a Srode for cover purponde:

stion's Listoi trinilato

ns of thin

toot 16 16-1

It to'

sect the ald or bis S

Ban ind snied for a

at tripos

a, be

A nip rent

sulto

often

at and

not a

ted to:

Lived in Li

suctence as so

Station Medco has no recard of uny nerber of th

Ing to Ouraos during this period:

5. Station Mesico bas no tracee on Subject.

Distributiun:

2 - NE w/att A a B (u/s/e)

EN91A-22050

cascaron

SECRET

"DATT

19 December 1063

Unknova

---

## Page 2

49.

In at 1219. No Bals NI 18 he talke Eaglich, Yes, Str.

M0s. I'd luro to talk to If pontalo, No. ANDRE PURITS (Pe): i mis la la

opace and be ta that he tortel for the Sorter passio la Mace

its /repenta the stenton.

Mos And his name las /spelle It out/ AKHENY PROZ. We met in Onince, and

I promised to call himwhen I got buck to Mexico city.

MIs Pleade repeat the nese and phone lo, I haven't understood

Mos (repenta/

Ait what te it all aboutr

He ast. No are Suediah, i vire and le ve vere talking about ehirptne

over to Spoden /word sadlettnst/ and a cos ve have, Ad re're both

1o0k1ng for a eultable ahip ti Vera Crus and we've been checking li

Monico Clts So no noted him He met dust ta a nestehrant, und sai:

noked ho 1t ho sed dny ldes about posetal a pontes aup, chet ve

conta take over. And ho said ho mould chect, taventiente tale matter

and t woold call him up tody,

ie art chlo sentle too pert or the sonet them on

Mte Hit ve don't hive tn our Bibaary such anie or mich o clak.

Refut

tat's buniness with the ahtpplas and com resets. Please cala to the

Office of The Trade Councillor of our country.

MOs Could you elve ne the telephone number!

MIs With great pleasure - 15-61-07 and the other 15-08-90. Please call

this maber, naybe they know about thill. Dut I'm not Informer about !

this completely.

MOs Mo. I see. I'll call this number. Thank you very wnch. Goodbye.

---

## Page 3

139. In De LIZA, NO /WARSTRAN/ MARA VI 18 AnTONe spARIa TaRlin.

WIs Yen.' What la 1t all about?

N0s We are Sundiah and in are looking for a treniportation to Burope: You

soo, I, not a man 1a, larica, who lo employed by the Hunter Shauv, and.

he tale no to check vito the puretan senor to no 121t 1a poemble to

Got onionger accondations on the hunter this,

Vii Gao minent, Mionge cali 25-60-55.

NO: Whom should I nat fort

VIS SI. NICHIPORENTO OT KOSTION /spelle 16/. Thank you:

37O IN at TMO, No coke NI for rOsrikov In Egitar. Nmone

Another Ni

tales the phone.

Nos t'a like to talk to the connu ros.

Ma. He 1a ibsent.:

No! I sir him at the libassy restertay and I prodied to call back at e.

o'clock tate arternoo

Mi Just a mento Another i tat

Nic, What con I do for jout

not ta thia consul R0S

shovt

NGÝ NO. KOSTKOV tO

son. He fe sone fer antle.

no. de

afte

don-

And be fin

aed to arrenge done ento for uns porarel a

Polish ship over to fur

MIs On, I see, Hould you be so kind to call him a little later, after lunch

tIme mybe around & o'clock.

M0: At # o'clock. And vould you please leave the message for him.

MIs And what 18 your nine?

MOs HAN... It 1a a Swedish nine, le'll probably remember it becanse I. ene

---

## Page 4

SECRET

over with ny vile jesterday asterpoon and ho knovo no name.

MIs Very well, so I'll tell him you'll call him after lunch time et a

o elock

coodbye,"

576-671.

IN Ht 1636. De WANSTRAM ARKO HI FOT KOSTIKOV. One mlaute, Another

MI telle hin - One mimite. Kos takes the phone.

KOBs

SortyI wad not ln then you callets I got sons Intomation. You

Amon that here in Mexico Citz there ta a Poliah Ocons lines Co. for

attpa. The addrens 1o Alvaro Obreson 2S-10l. There le one Pollen enla

nand Inklusz, Ints shp vili bo at Vera Crus on the l8th of november

and stay there untti the 2lot of loveber, Then it will ge to Tanico und

intat be there train the 2ind of Horenber until the auth of lovember.

Then te mal do to for Orleo, Marton at de 16ta Decene Me Ma Me

ut reing Ormangs And wati December Carala, Poland,

nor 16 December ta tree would be better for de

does co you should bon take chers of the tollia linge mort the massen bet

the role ab courel butora le that the deo lov (14 pice)

Vera Cous and they said about $250. 00 dollars i passenger. But the

evald not say hoi meh. for the ear. The Holland American Llie Chargen

$350.00 dollara 80r euch passenger:

ERC9492

KOS: It°s not convenient for you?

MD: This ls mich more corvenient because it goes to fortbarn Errope, all the

way to Aremen - Kiel. All the other hips that me checked on so to

Harostlle or Ilaly and some go to Antuerpen, but not as far as this are.

---

## Page 5

You are sure, thie ship taken on parvengert?

103: Yes, Of course: It icema to me that... You know I can gire you doi

phone No's of this company: 25-41-56, 11-14-91, 25-89-57. Tomorro

morning you get some information about your liner there.

Hôi TIl look them up tomorroy morales for vure. Jade mao very kad er you

consul KOSTIROV, I really apprectate this held

XOS, And 15 you should have done difficulty. I'II a ant you to phone no here

at the Babnee

MO% Tes; I mill

Kosi I'Ll see se I can help you l nonething..

Mo: Tank you a whole lot for this help. Tito la just what ve to besa lookine

KOBi N9 beat wings to your wife.

Thank yod

---

## Page 6

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

