io4-t0724-10002

prepay, Wades : — ood > 2°
aetna LAS 33C: :

: CLASSIFY WHEN FILLED IN DATE
REQUEST FOR APPROVAL OF LIAISON

(Submit tin duplicate - one will be returned to requester)

CONFIDENTIAL

i 17 January 1972
TO : Chief, Employee Activity Branch, PSD/OS

ntinuing basis (J one-time basis

PXOYEES NON-CIA EMPLOYEES

ext.  \orrice WAME (Last-First-Middle) RANK
7355 (ppP/cpc MATLACK, Dorothe K.
ext. orrice TITLE OR SERIAL NO.
ext. lorrice ORGANIZATION
Hl OACSI (Army)
ext. jorrice BUSINESS ADDRESS
| Pentagon
wae jext. forrice leave oF einte
| Code 11 - 79871

BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF LIAISON, COMMENTS, KNOWN BIOGRAPHICAL AND CLEARANCE INFORMATION

Mrs. Dorothe K. Matlack has been designated as the Army/IDC
Member replacing Col. John A. Smith.

The CDC (CIA Defector Coordinator) chairs the IDC (Interagency
Defector Committee). Liaison will relate to matters dealing with
he defectors m=wayeemp and refugees, and will include personal
contacts and @@® attendance at meetings as appropriate.

CLASSIFICATION OF MATTER TO BE DISCUSSED

Tor SECRET secret

CONFIDENTIAL

OFFICE /DIVISION/STAFF AUTHOR I ZEB SIGNATURE ;

DDP/CDC a a )
WoW TALOG /exT. a Pare Dy Clee Agate
Rm. 2D-40, Has, x7355 Dorothy M, Wilson

FOR OFFICE OF SECURITY USE

creARAMce 2 3c ees yp le ky Security approval is granted for contact at the
security classification level indicated. This. approval
7S fot £97. Zi does not waive any limitations or other requirements for
Ler Jee! authorization in connection with disclosure of class-
DATE GRANTED ified or controlled information which are contained in
Agency regulations or other directives.

Security approval for liaison contact expires three
years from date of issuance or whenever the representa-
paste, tive of the other agency or department ceases to perform
the duties incident to which the security approval was
given, whichever occurs first.

DATE CERTIFIED. i FOR THE DIRECTOR OF SECURITY:

o3

Cut P23RO

vier 123 PSEPTELE they tous RETURN TO CIA

COSTA Wari ;
CONFIDENTIAL ye | ; |

