1007-1096

AUG 86 ’98 1it4y

FEM ; Chisf of Station, Moxico City ° Maviend for dndaxing

TiPos Gaff Ronn, Morita; Chief of Gatton, WANES Chie? 1
SuBIECTs S Contest Reporta(irtutrt-9 ) i
8
ol
Pearce (ieanrts9)

Atewehed, for addvesseas, ave copies of Subject contact reports
Gated 12 duns and 17 Jam 1963.

Wiles rts

: ETURN TO ciA
poakground Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

7

s
2

a ars taarenesd

a rere reer



14-00000 _

1-3. S CONTINUATION OF

TERCATON

DISPATCH © i" SECRET oa 23605
oF chek, Brin af fades Sait
z > Merida,
Ear cst of Stationy WAYep C/wi Division
ROMs Chief of Stabton, anton chy
re)
1092 Contact teyartalirmaatio?y )
weareen Grn)
Attachad, fora ddressesa, a re copies of Subject contact reports
dated 11 unas 15 June, and 18 Jone 1943,
"wierd 6 cURITS
Ww v
Attachnents
As stated above
Distribdioas
Ae f/S23 u/art
- afatt
3 = OB, Herida
2 = CS, WATS w/att
~ Files
DATE TYPED DATS DISPATCHED
21 dune
DISRATCH STIDOL AMD NOMEER
Be 21605 .
FUE
go14g30173 30173.) 5
3,
id [orae i
we geo TREATS TAGES.
530 Sian siaea aN st Si CET TC Deonrmueo
‘wnign ate OnOAETE



ELC)

wig et suum, fort ie Meore

abject: eer thea)
wey Juve

—3 anc “I went to

On 14 June 63, Lit.

subject's xb CURTEY ORCHLINS Noten.

where we held meeting. FG

Tire: . 1°15-1900..

ol :
vTL-7)reportea as follows:

(Z-7) reverted that no "courtesy visas" on separate pieces’ of.

paper since the last report.

2.

gue’

Cuban Diplomat, went to Jamaica, where he

will remain a short while and then return to Mexico, wher: he
(Aseror Legal )
THRO of

will remain approximately 5 days. REY2S is an

the Ministerio de Industria. He is tall and wears Glasses.

< Cor
introduced REYES +09)

had'5000 copies printed

Be G-nreportee thattheCuben Enba:

of the-Erbassy Bulletin # 2l/at snéStaprenta VKaderg - cost 7,108 pesos

(Beltetin attached) (‘oper fas ended, CS Hash}

4. Ge 1) provided the. fatto: ss_for Fel ineROTAS Morales

Kexican Buployee, at the Goren

a) _
A tole (ae) that her sister, "Cac

Be
ARWAS. is very, anxious’ to voto Toccow. G-Danid she thinks that
ef

eke ee he moire. to the corpreso fe linjeres,
a) renorted that ‘sh believ s-that the 5: hr

heer installed in pararXs, Vera avartment.. ft var poe.

ri. vat SINOBAS was transferring phone nunber 25-07-55.

now

erin

to his avartment. ~ (CO! It is recommended that LIFEAT be

nourteé soonest.)

ib
a

EN?: Aprevious report indicates that Benigno CA: TELLAR _
at

