# 104-10165-10039

## Page 1

104-10165-10039

- SECRE

Cisnisas!

= June 1961

MENORANDUA FOR THE RECORD

LUBJECT: Relations wish Manolo RAY and se IRP

lo for background see my memorandur of 12 diay 1961, regorilag on

my long session wils Manolo RAY, Rogalio CISNEROS (Eugenio) and Ernesto

BETANCOURI. As will be noted in inas memorradum, lianolo promined lo

come us with a prospectus minin approximately ten days' simo, after con-

multing wilh bin leaders la Cuba.

Lo On 1 June 1961 Mr. Darnes called me lo say that it. Goodwir bad

been visited by d's. Ernesto BETANCOURI Ms0 naked for Immediase ¡inancial .

opport for certain assititles of the MRF which would run around Siu, inu

dollare lír. Barnes alked me lo contact EETANCOURT lor the pus ose ol

ancersalning whas the funde were to be uned for, exactly how much needed. etc.

I called BEIANCOURI and he told me that I abould get these denile from

CISNEROS (Engenio), who was staying as roora 589 al the vashlosion Hotel.

I called Eugenio and nade a daia for To ind Ray Dibois (Day Adars la lae

mme he usen with Ray and Clineros) lo call upon him. 'e called on CISNEROS

at approximasely l81s boura l June, and be inforced us chas he had urgen

need for pesos for use la support oi hia saboiage and underground airiviries

in Call. He sald his people were absoluely wilcout funda, seeded money for

Living expenses, scensportation purchane of mebotage eguipment, air fares les

courters, and for assimilna people co ges out of prison. He said Chat lt wan

now posuible for people lo buy their way ou of prison by bribing one of tba

many consunim lawyers and judges. He thought that su, COU or Sú, vic

would meet it nediase needs and that some sort of arrangemen should be made

So receire funds - 34, 600 moochly or theresbone - on a lired and permanens

basie.

J. We made so commitment so Eugenlo other than lo say lhas we would

paos hin plea along to she interested poople. I recinded blon chas we bad asked

him and Manolo lo prepare a plan for consideraton and las we were stu!

walling for thas plan

I sald I personally doubted that wayshing could be done

nil the plas mas recrived from RAY. He sald Manolo was planning lo come so

Vashlagion on the aíternoon of ¿ June with the plas, bus chas de biasell mo

haviay to return to Miami Immediately and it was vital he be ablo to cake che

money wilh him, arrange la Ailand los purchase of the pesos (ss sale of is lo

-SECRET

RETURNTO CIA

Background Use Only.

Do Not Reproduce

---

## Page 2

14-00000

-SECRET

-2=

money already la Cuba - dollars would be delivered l0 ouneri of le pesos wiso

are la Miami. I told him 1 would call him la the morning so let hima laow bra

thing slood.

1. I dincunsed our rseting with CISNEROS with Iracy Barnes on the

moralag of 2 June.

& was Iracy'a opinion, In which I heartlly concur. that

we should pul out no monay whatsoever until me have had a chance to examine

Nianolo a plas and to sudy just what repercussiona or ramifications tere

would be, policy-ime and othermise, lo a decision to asaiet the HIRP

pallaterally; laste, ouside the Council and presumably without MIRo

Inowlodge or. consent. Since RAY has withdrawn hin grous frora the Council

with a gren: deal of fanfare. l is moss unlikely tai MIRO would look kindly

OR AnY ASBBIESCE IO RAY, especially since he feels he hao a rather firma

promise from the President so deal only through sIRa.

5 RAY, upon arrival in Hashington, #Ill presumably Lake his plan (along

with BETANCOURT) directly so tir. Goodwin and I would also presume that

Goodwin will pass la down to Iracy and Tracy to us. Ray DuBois, wo has

bees Innolo's case officer, le standing by ln the evens he saould be seeded.

6. I peramanlly feel very mrongly that we should do nothing to support the

plat, whatever 1610, until we have received from the white liouse and the

Department clear-Cul, unequivocal policy guidance on the overall plan l also

feel shas now la the lime: 11 we are soing lo support the MRD unilaterally, lo

insert a son-official cut out into the operaiion. I would recommend thus con-

Alderarion le given to using ME. harry Pieper (a dAVE conTact employee)

ahis jon larry li campermenialiy iciod, sas a gooc business head, in

fluent la Spanih (lired ¿8 years la Cuba), le cleared, follows directions,

completely bones and tremendonaly conscienilous. It would be harder to

find a better person.

". Also, I would like to poins out the security riska inherent in any arraage-

ments with the RAY-BEIANCOURI-CISNEROS srio. These fellows have had

easy access to the While House and 30 lhe Departzens, are notorioue ¿or their

"planned leaka: will probably presume all the Departmess officials they deal

wich aro prity to the arrangeinent, and before ve know de the whole exile

community will be well aware that we are providiag linancial and maserimi

SUpPOrE LO LA RAI grOup.

I am bos arguing agains: proriding such sapport,

but am merely polming out the real posenilal for emoarrasment to us il the

mauer la sos handled mil the gremen of precautiona. I feel chey bare become

1oo clonely identilled with U.S. -ollicialdom, including ruysall, and that the

planaible denial aspecto, so dase as le

72

€C: A/DDPIA

DC/ WH/4

190

---

