# 104-10065-10140

## Page 1

1104-10065-10140

S 5

C•RET

17 May 1978

MEMORANDUM FOR:

Mi. Raymond A. Warren

Chief,

Latin American Division

FROM

SUBJECT

:

Norbert A. Shepanek

Office of

the Special Assistant

tọ the DDO for External Oversight

House Select Committee on

Assassinations' Questions

1. The House Select Committee on Assassinations (HSCA)

staff has passed the questions outlined below which we are

unable to answer.

The questions obviously derive from their

research of our

files and/or revelations made during inter-

rogation of our personnel.

Perhaps Mexico Branch or Mexico

City Station could shed some light on these questions.

2. The first question relates to telephone taps.

The

HSCA was provided access to the take from three taps, but HSCA

believes that there were five taps.

They want to know about

the other two taps - what lines were tapped, location, time

period, and period in operation.

3. The HSCA staff learned that there were (unilateral

taps in Mexico City.

Were these on official Cuban or Soviet

installations?

(There would be little interest if these were

against private residences.)

4.

In the photo coverage of the Cuban Embassy, there

were three camera positions.

Committee appear to be only

is the coverage from the third position?

tom the thirt

Photos made available to the

from two camera positions.

Where

What dates was it

in operation?

There was

second position from which photos were

made of the Soviet Embassy which carried the cryptonym LILYRIC.

They would like to

see the LILYRIC take.

6.

They have asked for the identity of (LITAMIL/9.

Could you determine

if (LITAMIL/9) is an active source and

relationship, if any, he/she might have had to the assassination?

E2 IMPDET CL BY 062028

SECRET

# 05967

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECRET

At this point, we have no way of determining the reason for

• their interest in (LITAMIL/9.

7. We would appreciate if you could give this matter

priority attention.

Norbert A. Shepanek

0/SA/DO/0:NAShepanek:kaj (1542)

Distribution

Orig &

1 - C/LA

1

- 0/ EXO/CI

2 - SA/ DO/0

S

E C

RET

---

