aot,

, “2NDER WILL. CHECK CLASSI. CATION TOP AND BOTTOM

“TNCLASSIFIED |] CONFIDENTIAL [| “] SecRET
OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP.

of ; WOU.
office would:

‘ Thank you , .
ci safe RAD he Res porsitnliky

Tor Answers ais cule. Bo
yore Wan’ Wow Bswards ore

FOLD HERE TO RETURN To SENDER
FROM: NAME, ADDRESS AND PHONE NO. [pars |
et Sut ies |__|

[___[ UNCLASSIFIED [| CONFIDENTIAL |_| ET

FoRm HO 9.37 Use previous editions tO)



1300000 4 J UNCLASSIFIED © | [J] "MNBL, ER] CONF” “ENTIAL (1 Secret

eee i “ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET By

= CURRENT CABLE _

EXTENSION | NO.

(Optional)

FROM:

DATE

"10 Ost 22

COMMENTS [Number each comment te, show from whom
te wh @ line across column after each comment.)

TO: (Officer designation, number, ond
72,0 ignation, room nu DATE Onis
: INITIALS

ACTION ADDRESSEE

Cables forwarded herewith
have not been integrated *

may’ 0 Reco them. Please
‘not return cables to

cL. ay: 00s9t

sr" 610 “titers [SECRET CONFIDENTIAL [7] [ATERNAL =) UNCLASSIFIED

or-119

epee meee rae



13-00000 een Pee if

>

>>
2
2
>

sour SECRET = FRPE yp pe pre
DEFERRED TELEPOUCH

ate

ACTIONS IP/DP=7 (173) INFO: ODPDeD, RF, FILE, (9/W)

78 1353105 PAGE 001
TOR: 021752Z OCT 78 LOND 98177

SEC RE T 0216422 OCT 78 DEFERRED TELEPOUCH

c1te[ P8177 (BAXLEY ACTING)
TO: WASHINGTON,
FOR: EUR/BC INFO C/CI
SUBJECTS WNINTEL RYBAT GNPROPER SGCHART = LEE HARVEY OSWALD
1, WHILE REVIEWING OLD FILES WE RAN ACROSS AN AUGUST 77
MEMO FROM GNPROPER CONCERNING RIMMA SEMENOVNA ZMITRUK (AKA
SHIRAKOVA), BORN 18 JAN 39 OR 18 JAN 37, SOVIET CITIZEN, "WHO
VISITEO THE UK FROM 22 APRIL TO 20 MAY 77 AS LEADER OF A GROUP
OF SOME TWENTY RUSSIAN STUDENTS ON A ONE MONTH ENGLISH COURSE",
2. PARA TWO OF THIS MEMO STATES: “SHE IS ON RECORD WITH
US AS A SUSPECTED MEMBER OF THE KGB, SHE HAS COME TO NOTICE ON
SEVERAL OCCASIONS NOTABLY AS THE INTOURIST GUIDE ASSIGNED TO LEE
HARVEY OSWALD DURING THE LATTER'S STAY IN MOSCOW",

3. WE ASSUME THIS INFO IS KNOWN TO HOS, BUT WISHED TO MAKE
CERTAIN BEFORE DESTROYING MEMO,

4, FILE DEFER, €182 IMPDET,

END OF MESSAGE SECRET
