id oir 1002

Bnd °

‘GATE MICROFIL MEO

om ery
ut 6108 Mono

enone |

Austin

OCC. MICRO. SER.

ony

tay


22

‘DISPATCH (Gradres:
Peete eos eae CeCe eee ECE eee (ieee
a Chiet, SQ

an etal i eee eg

ra" peoap
02 Capasnns/s -Gncx/s Contact with Gr!
a

coe Le .

B, (GrHa}s98s
2 oe
1. In the last tvo or three weeks (ABPOEE/S and (A
contasts with Grigoriy YS. GOLUB. As we have mentioned in Previcas die-
patche: ‘Sphad met GOLUB at the Soviet Embassy ville she was
for her visa <o the Soviet Union last P-bruary, GOLUB seemed ts be quite
impressed with (AB), and Ler ability to speak Russian and mate ber promise
that when she returtied ffea the USSR she vould ‘come in and tell bin all
about her experiences on the trip, As is also kano $AEYS fe a good
ereonal triend Ge (A se went to the train station to say farevell to
out 'S prior to the latter’s érip into the Soviet Union. At the train
‘tation was GOLUB, as vere other Soviets who had cone to say god-ty to
Mikhael IHOV,.GOLUH’s eestgtant in the Consulate, who vas gaing to _.
Mosoov. ‘Upon a GOLUB cane up to her to ask hov her triz vas and
again to invite her to “hia affice in the Enbassy to tell him eboct it, She
z_Fesponded that she intended todo {t but had been very busy upon her return.
bo (AHYS vas standing nan, felt st necessary to introduce (A8/5,
GOLUB, Upon hearing that. js would be on_the train to Leningrad he
called LYUBDDY over:and intréduced and Hays, to LYUBIMW stating that
ie

now LYUBIMOV vould havo an attrastite talk with on the train,

On about 20 May(AEJ5 dropped into the Soviet Bubsssy to talk with GOLUB

es ehe had promised, GOLUS was quite busy and therefore only ha! the chance

to chat for a very fev minutes, However, vhon he heard that she vas

leaving the first week in Jue, he invited her to cone to a farevell dinner

in het®:honor 2 apartment Sunday oveding, 24 May, He also told her that

he would invité(AR/S, since he had had the opportunity to bec scquainted

with her on the train from Leningrad to Helsinki. (Details of, aay

‘DI trip including a report of ker conversations are included 1aRef B).

OE ae Arrangements were meade vith! by GOLUB, Prior to this
5

‘point. had pot been tald Ef (ARY5’s associa with ua, but abe strongly

suspected 1%.0(AR/S, je knew of(AE}5%— connection with us as she

had ecomengd for IN trip, “Woerelt tt Recessary et this

that (ak/5’ [p'was taken under our sponsorship, We
had intended to'do this after [Az left Helsinki, as we are hezing to

C*haveAbJs continue with sone af @RYS’s Finnish contacts. “8 the
involvement with GOLUB aS fAx/3, Ve"thought it better to inf of
thie and a little about GOLUB personally eo that she knew vhere sie stood,

iz 2. :
2, GOLUB made errangesiente to mect von ays and (A875 “in the dovntown section
of Helsinki on the evening of the.dinner, GOLUB called a taxi, an? the
three of then drove to his apartment, Upon entering the apartacat GOLUB
introduced both of then to his wife, Hina, There was no one alee invited,
GOLUB first apologised for the large size of the apartment and the fact
that 1t was ec sparsely furnished, He stated that in Moscow they always
had » small apartaent but whlle in Hel. they felt obligated to have a
larger place where they could entertain?’ AS7S: stated the apartmsat vas
quite ald with pany rooms, all of witch were quite large. One or tw of
the rooms veren’t furnished at all, The Cumniture did not appear to be
too old, was semi-noderm, ani not particularly in goo? taste but still
comfertable, Ae far (S could observe, the GOLUB’s had no kitchen
help or other domestics, She balleved that GOLUB’s wife had fixe! the
dinner herself, The vife also served the linner, There vas never ary attenpt
during the evening to ply the two girls vith liquor, The GOLUis sere
small appetizers including caviar before dinner, a little vodka with the
meal, and a glass of vognac after. The evening vas quite pleasant, and
GOLUB and his vife seamed to get along fine. The latter vas frientiy aad
socable and did not efpear nervous. One of the main reascne vty Oc
told them he vante! then to cone to dinner vas to hear sane Russeas

hens

CA Pea tT



33)

CONTINUATION OF : i
DISPATCH i 7

recorda and especially some of his Challapin records, “After dinner GOLUB
aleo shoved them some Scviet/Russian art books and some of hie othsr momentos,
He gave 4 exall Russian art tock with an, inscription and his signature,
COLUB put on’ some reconis ani once asked to dance, A little while
after dinner a knock waa heard at the froat dSor, In walked another Soviet
carrying sone reels of film ani e povie projector. GOLUB intraduced this
young man to the girls but O75, did not catch his name and did not want to
make an abvious attempt to wind@out vhat hia name wes, A screen and the
ector were sot up in a room in vSich there vas no furniture, Then
GOLTS asked the tvo girle and his vife to come in aa he wanted to show sone
films. Bot GE/S and(AK/S*Gere delighted because they felt they were going
to see some Silas on the Soviet Untor. Kovever, the only films that GOLUB
had were sone Walt Disney cartoons ftarring Mickey Mouse and Donald Duck.
During the showing GOLUB laughed uproariously and seemed to enjoy the filma
trexendoualy, After the fllee they vent back into the living room and
chatted soxe sore. About 2500 houre both the girla felt they had stayed
long enough and said they would have to be going, GOLUB stated that he and
his wife would valk them home. . As they left the apartment Mra. GOLUB
walked arm-ineara with(AE}S) ‘and GOLUB walked arf<in-arm with (Ag/5i2 They
first valked °s apartment vhich wae about five or aix blocks from the
QOLUBs, Mr, and Nrs, GOLUS were extremely warn towards (By and vere very
sincere in their farevalls. GOLUB stated he hoped she had success in the
futare and thet if she should ever come back to Helsinki she should be sure
to lock them up, They then valked{AR/5, to her bus stop yhich vas about
aight blocks further, At the tus stop they said good-by IS and added
they vere both looking forward to more such vocial evenings IS stated
later that the evening was very pleasant, that both the GOLUBa vere very
Sinké@EYS speaks better Pinnich
than she does Russian, she and GOLUB seeued to be together most of that.
evening OUAEYS does not speak Finnish, so she wasczpaired oy necessity vith
Mra. GOLUB who knows no Finnish, While GOLUB and (A#/S were walk: to(any's’s
“92.

it, they lagged about one half a block behind Mrs, GOLUB and
02 Ges nentl

22

joned how much she enjoyed mesting Mra, GOLUB and the invitation
for dinner, GOLUB stated that before hia wife and he were married they had
Known each other for a long time and marriage. just seemed to be the next
step. He sald that now he and his vife are "good pale", and he also
mentioned thet his vife, although she liked Helsinki, did not like the
weather which oaused her a lot of sickness /2{AR/S, who ia quite outepoken,
stated, "Then there is only one thing for you to do and that is to apply
fora transfer because your wife’s health 1s much more important than your
job." ‘GOLUB responded vary quickly stating, no, she was wrong, the job was
certainly sore important to him than his wife. GOLUB stated that he was an
orphan and that the Communist system had given hin everything.

Another interesting thing happened in the GOLUB’s apartment after dinner 2.
while they vere listening to the Chalfapin.records, GOLUB turned to

and saidy "The friend that you met in the Soviet Union who is tring to send
you Chaliapin records is having a hard tine finding thea because all the
tourists. are buying then up." This shocked end surprised(AEY3 because she
had never mentioned to GOLUB or anyone in Finland besides the tmdersigned
that one of her contacts, Yuri MOZLOVSKIY, (See Personality Annex “1 of

8) whom bad casually mot at the Bolshoi Theater, hed promised
send records. had no response for COLUB and let the remark pass.
We have no idea why threw out this remark into the conversation as

he never mentioned. it agai.

: ou 2
come %a110a(aV5 cace or twice after the Hnaer to invite her out Seatn,
but (A5Y5 had alwaya previous engagenents, On 16 June GOLUB puoned (AE 'S and
asked if she could juin him and his wife for a movie on Saturday nigiit, 20
June S eald no, that she had plans for the weekend, He then yaid
how about Friday ovening, She said nc, she vas stil: busy. He sald theo
Thursday. She was still busy, end he said then how about tomorroy night,
Wecnesday. She felt she had to accept at tais point, He then stated that
he and Sis wife vould ree keys in dovntown Helsinki 2*(azJs, on the next
evening, ‘vent to the pre-arrenged, spot alone and found GOLUS there alone,
When she asked him where Hina wa¥(UE7S is on first name basis with both
GOLUB ans his wire) COLUB sald that bie wire felt a little 111 and decided
not to come to the movig’idth thea but that sho hed sent a gift along for
her, GCLUB then gave WFJS a paper bag containing a set of Inexpensive
wooden Russiea dolla, (AF{S vas quite taken back by the fact that Mrs. GOLUB

ny $e
~

we nesaisnn | Oe

:
Tea teeeer



CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH -

wasn’t‘thers tut felt she Sed to go along to the mrie, Thoy went to the
Capitol Theater in Halsizk: viich usutily abows Scviet films, GOLUB vent
to the cashier, apcka Rassian, and orvered twe tickete, When they walked
into the theater (Ax)S,notet that thar: ry few people in the theater,
COLUB had bought the'fost expansive s: logea, which are individual
conpartzents ususily for two people? @\ar{5 vas somevhat nervous and measy,
however, GOLUB was a perfect gentleman throughout the vhole parformance,
After the movie CLUS aired G37: to her bas, They walked around the tovn
for about an hour vhile the two Sf thea discussed Soviet political theory,
and Soviet vs vestern cuitce, Her conclusions vere that GOLUB iy a fiz

believer and supporter of bis re but still talked objectively end

intelligently wanting to explain S why he believed commmiam was the
dest system. GOLUB wae quite vociferdus about this, spcke quite definitely,
intently and vaved his arms as he spoke. He firmly believed that eventually
the whole vorld would be ccsmmistic ami this vould come about Peaceably
and naturally: V(A8/5 reised the Hungarian Revolution to GOLUB aa an example
of bow "peaceably*® commmisn vould come about, GOLUB stated Soviet Russia
had to intercede, that the bulk of the people in Hungary vant a commmist
goverment, and only a feu reactionaries started the revolution. He atated
that that wus the. reeson they had to send Soviet tanks, He then brought up
the example of the US actica in Guatexala, then this tock place, he stated
the Soviets protested and protested, but everyone knew in the Soviet Union
‘that this action was something the US had to do to protect its ou interests.
Re sadd this was the same situation in Hungary.

Ot
5. ys ateted that even though the discussion/argument was qiite long and
Aro it never became heated nor did GOLUB become angry, He kept repeating

BUS that she should return to the Soviet Union for ancther tourist trip.
(AEYS atated that she vould like to very much and would think about it,
GOLUB also told her that it wild be good for her to stuty a year at the
University of Moscow but that this would probably not be good fo! S*s,
future to have sonething like this.on her record. 32

ra

6. On 25 June GOLUB phoned! again to inform her that he had Just received
some more. phonograph records from the Sovist Union and she might like to
hear them, On 28 Jue he phoned he~ again merely to chat, At this tine he
told her that bis wife was leaving for holidays in Moscow and that there vas
some man in Moscow she loyed better than her husband. This surprised(ARYS o2
who told GOLUB he shouldn’t joke like thet. GOLUB assured her that he vas

not joking.

7. We are ily 1a the proces of £i11ing out a PQ IT, so « full Oh cen
de granted| AEJS.° She is a very intelligent, conscientious, and a quick,
young Amerféen student, She is vell read and versed in American politics,
literature, and culture and hes an insatiable thirst in learning the same
about other countries, Her main interest at this point is Finland and the
Soviet Union, and she spends most of her spare tine in the University
Library gathering material for her study project, Fenno-Soviet relations;
However, she is far from the book worm type. She is outgoing, fairly
attractive, meots people well and has travelled much around Finland alone
just to sea how the Finns live and work, She is independent by nature,
outspoken, and somewhat aggressive fn finding out things she wants to know,
Sho realises full voll the implications behind her contact with GOLUB, and
we do not feal that she would ever allow herself to be put into the position
to have to say yes or no to a seducticn attempt by GOLUB. Our impression
is that she hopes mea like her for her mind. She enjoys seeing GOLUB and
delights in their serious political discussions, GOLUB appears to enjoy
them and her too. We on keep you posted on further contact.

8. The final results cf(Ap/5’s KEDSKIN trip are being pouched in REFEREWE B.
Coatille’s lunch with GOLUB has been reported in Reference A,

ou
fe)

at
Wilitam L, Costille

Distribution:
2- WE
2 = Sa
ra

sone
ay $20

SATS =

‘ Downe 5

cary

th

