# 104-10271-10145

## Page 1

104-10271-10145

..il

¿l Novenber 1960

CaTACT REPORT

SUBJECTI. Meetles WIth AARueL RAY, 15 Movember 1960, et a H0B01

10 loisasteed, PlorIda

The meeting vaa ball in the above oned place beenose,

at that

particular timo, Manuel Ray mo still "under vraps" and ve did not want

to ence any chonces of Dario, him spotted in Miant. Manuel Ry and ble

Wife had been driven fron Tangs by "Ray Adan" (Riy Dúbolo) to the above.

named notel, I had previouly called Ray on the telephone from lev Iort

at bis Tompo restdence and told him that I voald meet dim on 15 November.

The meetine began at 2100 boure and lasted until about 0130 the next day.

The highlights of thie metlas were reportes in kast-l6gk, 17

November, copy of volch la attaebed, The following paragraphe are

«laboration of tols sassago.

natabllub the bonder group as a prlvate contacto Jetinitivo for

Caotro activities.

ant 1"

no an "exchange of vlovs" sesalon, avolding any cootroversy, but st:

the one tins, Indicating acon surprice and aone bevillersent over sone

of Rig'o statemanto.

Tarouzbout the coversation, Ray cloarly streased hia treat

bellef la civil liberties, InJiviinal Freedom, an bie position as e

Cuban, ans also hemlopherie, astionalist. On a number of occasiono, he

«troosod the point that nout likely som of the solutiona he proposed

for tha poet-castro perlou, might ba vieved by me vito sono alastvinco.

Da'$ you bollere, he asked, that that 10 laportant to tha economy of tha

v. S. Is not necessarily laportant to the ecsmoly of Cubal don't you

think that: tho Auerlean bras of dubocracy, valch varke oundrably 1a

your country, 1s not necessarily appliceble in ite totality la Cabag

5.

Ray rosterated, on a number of occasiona, that ho mnted to 60

back to 1 January 1959.

He ma quite firm - na reported in the abora-

mentioned cable = on sbe seed of the national1zas1oo ni publle utilities,

when asked about the agrarian ralor and, in thie connection, what would

bappen to Castro selred Aberica rancbes, he anly thee land distribution

ans ornership by isilvicual firas of land so parcelled vut, vould be a

soal of bia coveriment, the criteria on wbatbar or not inarican-owned

runebed would be returned to their omers, vere currently being vorked

---

## Page 2

14-00000

ONET

OUt Dy Yellys PARO: (COMINT! I Esined due lapression that these

rencbes alibt not be returned.)

6. I renlly shoved son aurprlee when Ray sold tbat be soul sot

take the 190 Conatitution the Danio for bla future government. This 160u0

case up in tue following nonners. I nated Ray wether or not be could work o

eitner by Joining or by affiliating. with the PRD, and woen bis answer

enn in the negative, I posed the quention of vhst vire the areas of agree

ment anil of ilancrement between him and the PRD.

May sadd tat be had

not so jot talked to Tuny Varone but that he vould feel that there could

a be agreemint on a nuber of pointes

11rat, to det rid of Costrog second,

that there abould be civil Liberties and Indivijual freedom. le sald

that porhayo the area of disagreement was considerably arenter, be

could not accapt tbe 1940 Conatitution an the bale for Cuba's political

lite in the future.

Obvioualy, bone proviiions of the Constitution rould

be reininod but especially provisiona for electoral procedures voulu bave

to be eborgod radically!

the currant proviotons are lostering corruption

end feathar-beruind; and are not responsive to the will of the people.:

Questions of maticoolisation and other econonle mattera vould have to ba

denlt with more tboroughly in the Constitution. Another polas of dis-

Brement with the FRI 10 the faot that it was lioked too much with the

past. The Y1D, Rgy aald, 1o roally I Ay Varcao.. Ul the sive, be le tbe

only one of any true Importance anongat tbe current Executive Committee

memberos Corrillo bno ülvaya been very close to the Mai political puilure,

and Artino Is a yond fire-brand uithout too such braino, the reat of tha

PRO Procutive Cimittoo minberg ne nieo people Indivldunlly, but Vurena

1s the man to reckon aith. Now,

there do nothing vrong with Varons par-.

sonally, lug 1a a alocero,

patriotle. Cubnn who has and deserves respect.

Hovrver, Varion do Inceparably linked with the corruptoes of the trio

regine althouch be, Varons, le undoubtedly n complately bouest man.

asoltion, vorons, whether ho vaste to or not, 1e a symbol ul the past and

outdated political and econonic pbilonophy of the Prio regime. It ia

Imposalble for the MRP 40 have any deallnss with or any licka to chat

paot.

7o I Boks) Ray what bie position to the 8cr1et/ChiCon block would.

be after castro's ventas.

One of our baale concepto, day ando, 1a to

trade uperever 1% vill be beneficial for us, beneffcial does not samn

to tie our econoy to tbat of the Boulet block.

We are quite avera that.

our future 1o. linked to our crest Horth Acerican silebdor.

aoveyer, such

link eno nut mian dination or bould luply any excluelveness. le muet

build up our bare currency pooition so that to con trade wborever ve

vet to.

Tou Auricana underestimate the strone feeling of sati alim

crouchout into America:

Don't use the Marines!

von't imade! This

revolutio sea to bo generated fron the inatue.

tie need Atarican belo

but tola bely muat be elthout atringe ettachel. Ambassaior Bonsal and

promlaed un thie belp, and your, Benier's, vealinis with MP

rupreventatives bere maja us very hopeful, but 11 vo can not get tale a1u,

ve vill proceed on our oun.. le are certain that ve will win, but 1r we

---

## Page 3

bave to dle ln Inllure do be 18l Il vas al cals posit shes Ray complaines

BIttorly ado: banlinE or dia Sinesto baLiS aftairs Sicato lalab mo

Ivotine for urta. do, Ray, Mas die: to bullu up bis or onleation and

:*berefore to draw pouple like lalas into his cirele., Oce il too means to

do thin vas, it course, to mate taisy dependent on lis, lagos, ability to

furnies wilitary éguipment..

bialia save a request for arms to Rays Roy

channeled this requent to his Aberloan contact: in Havana in the anticipation

tbat be, ray, vould be elvas the ereule by balal or having deltrered

the goode.

that happones, dovever, vas thes pilalo Prieto, tho has sees sraloed in

Abarica, mie ecctect vith balas an ancures hia that supput sould be

fortbecilns from a source otder tina isy.

Thie, Ruy continues, was 10-

Jientioo that the Amerdeans myetes to aplit away the walah soup tron

Ray®9 Iniluence. I Indicated no scouledge about this asfair but poo pooed

the conclusios drum from it by Ray.

8. After fusa political 31ocussioo, say eluciuated so psychologieal

aspecta of the HR vork:

vy are repolutionarles, on! taua ve suet retain;

at all thugs, a lese and bungry loos.

sach one of la, regarilese or the

leval of our activities, sust bara s leellno of paraçoal respoca1bl11t78

from me do to the plain coon, ve must have specific saake aestined to as

to do mad each of us muat recostise that ve vill bo beli responsible tos

the succeos or taflora of the speciale mission anilined to ua.

Thu8, for

Inatance, ve es not be satisfied just to accept money, yu sast ebeage 10

fund-roloing 3r1res here and 10 cuba. There irives night not being in

much and boperully, Bender vill make up the sifierance, but ibe 1nd1v1dual

furi-raisers vill bave a foolins do accomyllahnent and sill not dut fat and

opulent and lasy.

9.

Abore cocclude the over all diucusaion and some datsfled questiona

vere asked by Ray: Could be bave $25,000 by vext week?

(1 comitted

$10,000.) Coull bo engago in a suri-sialas activity in sbe u.s.8 (I

temporiel.) Could de have piroes conforences? (I sole, why Dat?) Coalil

be bave routo troct (I salu, persaps.)

would to cot silltary 91j8 (i

cald yee, prorided sur criteris for turniabins such ald voule se

I repested, At 8bas point, my vian tha: there couli be no duplication of

effort.)

any told se tort the chiet of the hit in Cuba vass chop by th

nase of (10u) Claneros.

Ho toll me y hanuel Causeo, wio 1s currently 10

sualn, vould play a conduerable role in ebe lãi payca darfare activities.

10. The medle closed with or m'erstasited thre to moulu seat sialo

within

toe next tve veeka..

WALLACS N. PARISTY

NAP/pIg (19 bion 60)

Diatributicos

0 - 63 F1le

1 - INASH

1 - Haruel Say Jossier

1 - C/JURE/OPS

---

