foerre-oazz} wes

Do Not

ob, os
se oi ca| Jn an rac 1 \
TAT BE WS REE DASSIATLY We TE GED sr, ‘BR RAD GE¥? EOS WIVs
AD DERREA GH AED, HS MEATIED OM WER V.8. on 8 ADVE,
Ha 1D Se QT AS TRAD WRENS @? KN TeETION,
= wlio, REE GEES,
> socmaaES wo we FAD IOENE Of ARES ones TO mE RROMUETOS
22 FORGING Shey SS WO UEMNLE MERE PO ROY Kay DONER oo MERTD SYED, AMD
‘DEEETIog $ ER AeaTS £0 BO so I eEONEET,
HIB RRAPSES WEE, : |
6. SSRIS AP MECEEE Mets sEVELATTON OF KIS WESERCE
wa bas ot)
>. Fan PERERONY A BENE 30 CONVERS V.5. cormmONT mus
SOY 205 POLLAN BETES ENS REN IH PEERGH POLY.
= RES COEUR MY AOPIVIERES 8 SR GE Ad MOLINE,
922 BE SEORSNNEES oF HE seme OME mm EIS CoM rr
a so BOP EOS AGES © RAGE SASL OITA AERATORS WIFE OOLITTH,
° + SR SPEEA C8 Ema o7 YD uBR woo. MEME, KE DID A CHRATE
“Resear co was mien ot wm oS WS many err. i AZOTTTON,
: a2 SE SOG GP HE PORES Mer, OR EAS RUD UT US GF A SUT oF om
: “Goa “SES WES BOP COOKEMD, AD ws MALL I SEENON A SEPUTE
. SOR ASeCR SOD 09 tm 2A eas Patten w,*
ee cea powus_or X18 EERE ae
Os 0.8,

Spe arite st

Yet


ypl

96,08
cours craven [ienuR MARTON TEE BVEIINO OF 7 AUGUST:

THAT HE WAS RETURKDN DOGDIATELY TO THK UNTIND STRESS. EE BAD SHAD HIS WIFE
48D DAKGHITER ON ANKAD. HX ARRIVED DN THE U.S. O8 8 KIXET.
BF HAD DT OTYRS Air PREVIOUS MARNINO OF IS Deere,
wr aw furtif}rum o mmo mm,
secon ro wef Jers MN were 1 reRaNIA ano To mE meunucron
Phone SA HES GSE OK To DERE AN DOLE cH MRD FER, Amn
DMGATIos To TRY AOADH TO DO so DF WAEHNOTOR,
HIS REASOAS WOKE:
+ DIBNRAICE AP RECENT PRESS REVELATION OP X08 RESIICE
mE.
>. MORE PARTICULARLY A DESIRE TO CONVINCE U.S. oOvEUEOOTT ‘Ar
SHEY ARR FOLLOWING EWTIRSLY ROMO PAIN IN FORRIGH POLICY.
uz VE SUMMARIZED HIS ACTIVITIES IN THE UK AS POLLEN:
“DN THE CIRCUNGTANCES CP HTB SHORT STAY IN ESIS COUNENY IT
HAS WOT BERN POSSIBLE TO RAVE ROOULAR SUSTAINED SESSIONS WITH QOLITSTH,
S30 SPENT A 00m DEAL oF DE TAME ABO. BOMEYES, EE DID A-CERTADE
door or vera wrenGuRenain ms Usk, HE BAD ALRGIOY Orv IN ADOTTION,
FOL CF SE MOSS IEA, HE Ws EOAGED UTE OH A STOE OF saE
(2euleiee, THIS WAS NOT COMPLETED, AND WE SHALL EE SEDIN A SEPARATE
, NORE ABOUT THIS 50 THAT CIA CAN FOLLOW UP.*
sarees "Jhon ve nave roan ar ons 35a3 Sema pena
0 nr 0.8,

