tora 10063
i

J

Filiverte Rybero,

NSStuntz/ea, Ryport Br., CD/00

e270

y8R


oO

TA-294-65
f L, 7 April 1965

Cuban Exile Activitjé@ in the US -- Slection of
ile

\
1. ‘The follow: and the enclosure, presumably are of
interest to| WH Division, et al.

2. The enclosure, for retention, is the edited results of
4 meeting dur: the late evening and the early worning of 2h-25
Mar 05 betwee: jof the LAFO and Fil Rivero. The latter
must be a familiar nane those involved in Cuban activities. The
weeting was taped, transcribed and edited, all of which took much
wore tive than hed been anticipated; ergo, the delay.

3. In resume, enclosure reports the background of various
attempts, or opportunities missed, to overthrow the Castro regime,
Rivero’s opinions of vhy they failed, and his intention of
initiating a final try. On the basis of encouraging responses
to a couple of spot radio announcements in Ios Angeles and similar
experiences in Miami and New York, he has plans to poll all Cuban
exiles in Southern California. in a rather Vell thought out electio:
on Sunday, 25 Apr 65. Qualified voters will select some 20 or 50
anti-Castro Cubans from possibly 100 eligibles who, in essence,
will represent the Cubans in exile aad, vhen politic, a government
in exile. ‘he enclosure sets out the mechanics of the election,
anticipated activities of the representatives in the US and in
Iatin American countries, the formation of Cuban-latin brigades,
training facilities, and invasion prepsrations.

4, Since preparation of the above, Rivero advised on 7 Apr 65
that Prio hss proposed an alternate plan for elections on 2 May
of a group of 25 people to be chosen from a pre-selected 50. There
will be 16 nominees of political or revolutionary background from
vhich eight will be elected; 10 from the “new generation” - 5 vill
be chosen; 3 from 6 industry-comerce nominees; and the sane number
frog labor, the professions and the press. ‘The man with the greatest
nucber of votes will be the “Delegate” of the exiles, patterned
sonewbat on Jose Marti's “delegate” status prior to the Spanish
Averican War. The remaining 24 will be his comaittee,

i

BIER


TA-298-65
7 April 1965

5. Rivero regards the above as one more Prio device to
assure himself effective control of the exile moveacnt's
operations, and the election # dishonest affair in that
voters really have no choice,

6 Rivero, despite Prio's plans, is going ahead vith his
ovn 25 April belloting. He bas since, with the help of former
Cuban jurists, modified as follows the plan as presented in
enclosure.

@. Bach of the Caribbean Governuents willing
to assist in providing facilities (when the dperation
gets to that point) will be invited to provide a
delegate vho with the other Caribbean representatives
will constitute a Council of the Caribbean to sit
with the exiles’ junta, In sddition to being the
focal points for liaison, they will also have pover
to veto exile activity they believe not to be in the
vest .interests of the Caribbean. Appeal would be
through OAS for resolution.

b. If and when the exiles invaded Cuba, the
junte and the Council would together oversee @
provisional government until a constitutional
assembly could create a formal government,

7. Rivero 1s discouraged by Prio's plans as well as by
what he suspects are efforts by elements of the US Government
to keep the exiles divided and to make impossible any organiza-
tion remotely resembling a government in exile or even - of exiles.
It is his intent, at least at the moment, to criticize Prio!é
plans in his next radio program.

8. In the event interested parties wight prefer to hear
the tape in addition to the edited transcript attached, ve will
forvard it.

~ end -

Encl: Transcription of Tape by Fil Rivero

ONLY



8

u Enclosure to
1A-298-65
5 April 1965

2. For your information, I am Filiterto Rivero, J ama citizen
of Cuba by birth; born 29 Aug 1913, and a permanent resident of the US ee
since 1949, I aa warried to an American, have on Acerican daughter, and :
I've lived in California practically since I arrived in the US, except
for two or three short visits to Cuba prior to 1959. At present I have
no political affiliations either in-@ha.or eleevhere, and I do not belong
to any organizations vhatscever. For a time, hovever, I vas President of
the Cuban Catholic Center in Ios Angeles, an archdiocesan organization
created to provide Cuban refugees vith a place to geet, and help each
other find jobs, etc.

2. About four years ago I started a lecture tour, prompted by
People like the Kivanis, Chambers of Commerce, etc., to try to explain
the Cuban situation, For the lest tvo years I have had a radio progres
on Station KWKW, Pasadena, Sundays, 1900-1930. It's a sort of nevacast
of Iatin America called “Nuestra America al Dia", or "Our America to
Date", In that program I do @ kind of resume of the important events
of the week in Istin America, concentrating cn Cuba. Cuba is in the
headlines much of the time, legitisately is important nevs and is the
source of {uportant news; aleo I'm extreuely interested in the problems
of my country. I should aleo say that I an a strong believer in the
Aperican system of government and vish that ay little country could
have done as vell, i.e., had a two-party system with elections every
four years, after which they would bury the political hatchets and go
to vork. But it hasn't worked out like that. I have strong vieve on
some points of Averican politics. If I was a Republican I vould be a
Liberal Republican; if I was a Democrat I would be a Conservative
Democrat. ‘That's as close as I can describe my political thinking.

One final thing, I have never been in Jail and I've never been in
any trouble.

3. Now with that little background I should add that I have ceen
the only redio or 1V voice in Los Angeles attempting to explain the ups
and dovns of Iatin Azerican politics and this has given me a bit of
recognition. Also since October 1964 on Monday nights, from 2100 to
2400, I have had @ program with a Mexican, Roberto Iglesias, who is
an American citizen by convenience, in wy opinion, that is, and not
by conviction, although we are friends. We started a program of
telephone conversations in which people would call and comment on
any subject on politics -- national, local, or Latin American -- as
they pleased. This program, which is also on KWKW, has enjoyed a
fantastic and unexpected success, and it brought me to some additional



Buclosure to
TA-2y-65,
3 April 1965

prominence in the Latin community of Los Angeles. I aight say it
has also unde we a center of controversy. I've taken some strong
svipes at the Mexican Government because it did not go along with
the rest of America in breaking relations with Castro. By the sane
token, I have also taken some rather strong swipes at certain sreas
of the American Governuent for things done in Latin Anerica that I
feel vere grave wistakes.

4, I consulted beforehand, hovever, vith a number of people
on @ personal basis to know if I had the right to discuss American
politics, since I am not an Averican citizen, I was told that this
vas a free country, and that as long as I' didn’t violate any lava
of the country I could speak on anything I pleased, and that it
would be judged in regard to good taste, or bad taste; but not that
I ves doing anything illegal. So, being respectful of Aserican lavs,
I've taken advantage of the fact that I live ina free country, one
E like very auch, because I think I'm doing some good.

5. With reference to the Mexican commmity, in general, it's a

watter of orienting 4 million and a half people who vere born with
@ hatred of the US. Moot of those that come here from Mexico have
been brought up with a deep-seated resentoent against the Yankee.

Our program has shown thie to be tremendously strong and I wake a
special effort to tell them that the cause of their woes is not the
Yankee; it’s their own lack of education because thelr government

for many years has kept them in a kind of an intellectual serfdom.

80, I'm not popular with wany Mexicans, vho accept vhatever their
governnent says is good for then. I argue that you do not accept

the vord of the governgent as the vord of God; that you discuss

and argue vith your governvent if you don't agree, and that is what
keeps the administration on its toes, This is not the way it vorks
in Mexico vbich is not a democracy, but a kind of a civilian monarchy
in wnich the monarch or the king changes every six years, but the
wonarchy reigns on, that is, the Partido Revolucionairo Institucional,

the PRI. So much for Mexico.

6. Now, regarding Cuba, The reason I. wanted to have a chat with
you is because there 1s somthing imminent as far as Ios Angeles is
concerned, und due to our fricndly relations I want to inform you
beforehand 60 that you vould know from me and not from the press.

I refer to the fact that ve're trying to create vhat vill amount to
a Cuban Government in exile. This is aot news because it has been
going on for about three or four months, but what is important is
that I have Jumped the gun on the leaders in Miami, and am scheduling



“this has been the ao

Enclosure to
LA-205-65
S Arsh 155

an election without their particular approval, but vithout their
specific disapproval either. They have asked we to vait and talk
to Dr. Prio and the other leaders in Miawi who are vorking on this,
but I refuse to delay any longer.

7. First, let's answer one question -- vhy o governcent in exile?
Well, everything else seeus to have failed. Since the Castro takeover
in Cuba the first big thing I can rewember vas the Bay of Pigs. Well,
that story is pretty vell know. The reasons vhy the Bay of Pigs
failed I think vere covered beautifully in an article by a Cuban
attorney entitled, “Decision for Disaster: At Last The Truth About
The Bay of Pigs," in Reader's Dicest for September 1964. Up to now.
‘complete and factual article I have read on
the Bay of Pigs, I bave double-checked with many Cubans vho vere
involved and they tell we this account is absolutely accurate, except
for one point, It does not say why the Kennedy cdministration cut
dovn the second and third waves ‘that were originally scheduled. The
information I heard from other sources is that there was a very heated
argument betveen Adlai Stevenson and President Kennedy. Stevenson had
gone on record that the first vave of bombers that hit Cuba prior to
the invasion vere flown by defectors from the Cuban Air Force.
Apparently he did not know that this vas part of the overall CIA
operation, When he learned of this, I'm told, he yot very, very
upset, being a nan of great pride, and that in his rather strong
argument wito President Kennedy about the point, he threatened to
reveal the vhole plot in front of the vorld and resign as Ambassador
to the United Nations if there vere any wore such boubings. I under=
stand President Kennedy feared s scandal, and gave the orders that
resulted in the Bay of Pigs disaster. I don't know if this ia true
or not but I put it here because it makes a lot of sense and tends
to relieve the Azerican intelligence groups of the blaue they've been
carrying on their shoulders since the Bay of Pigs invasion, but that's
beside the point.

8, ‘The next big moment of Cuban hope of liberation vas the
Octoder 1962 missile crisis. We all know what happened there, and
wany of us Cubans fee) that the administration made another crave
mistake because rany very important people in the adainistration
do not understand the mechanics of the Communist mind. At the time
in vhich the so-called eyeball-to-eyeball confrontation came abaut
the Soviets promised to take the missiles out, and to permit some
international organization to inspect the island, etc. OF course,
the question is -- vhy did the Anerican Government retreat or lift

~3-


Enclosure to
; TAs?yh-65
5 April 1965

the blockade when the moment of danger had already passed? I under-
stand that many people in Washington and the administration felt

that Khrushchev had behaved like a good boy, had promised he would

take his missiles out imeediately, and disaantle them, and that he
should not be pushed into a corner, It vas felt that if he ves pushed
into @ corner, possibly the Stalinist group in the USSR, prodded by

the Chinese, vould overthrow Khrushchev, and then the US vould have

to deal with a puch tougher man and not good old Nikita vho vasn't

too hard to get along with. All he had done vas point a few atomic
wissiles at our heads. In any event, we Cubans felt that if the
blockade hed been kept on for enother fev weeks, or until the inspec-
tion hed been made, this vould have been so brutally shamcfui to the
Castro regine that right then and there, chances were good for an”———~
interna. uprising vhile the United Nations or the OAS or the Red

Cross was there asking ite inspection, At any rate, this vas a
fantastic opportunity that was misacd sy reaeons vhich perbaps

history way be able to take care of. So, that was secoud ting”

that failed in the Cuben problea.

9. Toen, of course, we can also wention the disaster of Miro
Cardona and his group vhich failed in the opinion of many people
because tiey were practically appointed by the State Departoent.

At least, at that tive, the State Merertnent scemed to vant some
left-wing leaders to take over Cuba. There is no doubt that Cardona
could be classified as a Socialist of sorta, or left-winger of sorts.
The disaster of Cardona vas a result of the Bay of Pigs situation and
was @ very unpleasant thing. I think personally that Cardona conducted
himself wrong. If he had been brought into President Kennedy's confi-
dence, he should have respected that confidence and made a discreet
exit, but not the dig to-do he made vhich didn't accomplish anything
except to kill the hopes of other Cubans and to make President Kennedy
and Robert Kennedy very angry. Anyway, Cardona's group had the original
bin of not being a legitimate Cuban organization. Moreover, there is
another thing about his group which many Cubans have never forgiven --
that 1s tiat at the moment of the invasion they were practically locked
up by Aserican authorities someplace in Florida. They vere supposed
to be.allies but were kept prisoners, I suspect the truth of the
matter is that the Americans who were running the show feared these
Cubans vould talk too much and that their veing put avay for a fev
hours vas just a roughshod vay of protecting them against themselves.
But this left @ bad taste because it proved that the group was nothing
but @ puppet of the State Department, and Cubans proud of their
sovereigrty and their nationaliom didn't like it at all.

beteienrat ny fae



Enclosure to
TA-2y4 65
5 April 1965

10. ‘The next point on the things that have gone wrong in the ‘
process of Cuban Liverntion is the fantestir “operetta”, and I say
operetta because we could call ‘t a tragic comedy, of Manolo Ray
and his weanderings arcund the Caribbean. I had been in Washington
in March 1964 ond in Mis@i in Jacuary or February 1964 and I had :
done a lot.of talking, and interviewing, and investigating. When I
returned to Los Angeles, about April 19th, I gave a meeting of Cubans
@ full report of my three-month trip on the referendum preparations \
going on in Miaai, and ay conversations in Washington vith some State
Department people, with-Cuban ex-aebassadors vho still live in Washing-
ton and a treaendous assortment of personalities. During ay report,
here in Los Angeles, one of the Cuban leaders asked oe vhat I thought
about Ray's promise to be in Cuba, fighting by the 20th of May. I
told him without any hesitation (and I have s tape of that meeting)
that there vas nothing to be concerned about or hoped for with Ray
because he vas going to be on soze convenient little island in the
Caribbean with @ photographer and a few friends and that would be the i
end of his promise to invade Cute. But I vas promptly abused by 4
member of the Junta (JURE) because he thought I was desecrating his
hero. I told him I didn't have anything against Ray but that I hed
enough informstion to warrant ry saying that. Of course, vhen this
actually happened just a few weeks later vhen Ray vas discovered on
Cay Anguila, o British possessicn, I ves looked on with great respect
by the people at that meeting. My reasoaing that Ray was going to be
found on an island was just the result of putting o few bits of informa- :
tion together and asking myself vhy Ray had made the rash promise in
1963 that he would be fighting in Cuba or be killed in the fighting.

‘This vas because of his famous, or fofamus, scheme known aa the

Judas plan. The Judas plan to refresu you vas one vhereby the Aserican
Government (when I say governpent I ocean precisely Robert Kennedy and
perhaps his brother) was to overzcrov Castro just before the skctions
of 1964. It came to be called the Judas plan because actually it was
not weant to change the basic type of governcent, just to replace

Fidel Castro with Manolo Ray. Trose ot’ us vho studied Ray wondered

how much diyference there vould te in the basic political philosophy

of Castro und Ray. I taink thet ve can sa, without mlesing the mack
too far that Ray vould find a lot of support for this kind of thinking
in sowe circles of the State Departeent and the Averican Governuent.
Tnen I had another reason to tnink that this Judas plan waa real because
during my stay in Miamt I learned that severai top officials of the
first nine months of the Castro covernnent, by then refugees theuselves,
had been contacted by people connected in sore way with others supposed
to represent the Ceatral Inteilisence Agency. Tnese former officials



Enclosure to
TA-208-65
5 April 19S

of the first year of the Castro government had been asked if they
would consider taking their old positions 1f and when there vas @

Cuban government that vould be close to the original revolutionary
governnent -- in other words, Ray and his people. This vas before

the apsassination of President Kennedy. After the assassination,

which was in November 1903, I vas in Florida and found that the vhole
Judas plan had disintegrated. The main reason for it vas to have
sowething ready in case it vas needed for a spectacular to give the
Averican people the feeling tbat its government had finally liquidated
Fidel Castro and then would go out and re-elect the current administra-
tion. This whole operation is very involved, would require hours to
explain. It was dubbed by wany the Judas plan because Judas vas the
apostle vho betrayed his Lord. So, let's go on to the next point.

11, Ray floundered and was caught on Cay Anguila, in the Babasas,
a British possession, and as we all know he was fined for something
or other and let loose. Since that time we haven't heard much except
that he keeps going in and out of Puerto Rico, Miami, etc., but he is
laying low. As far as the Cubans are concerned, he's rinished. Let
we say as a little sideline to the Ray situation: Ina secret oceting
in Ios Angeles, Jose Estever, the JURE delegate, took an oath that Ray
vas already in Cuba. Later, vhen Ray vas discovered in Cay Anguila,
Estevez told his own executive group he had lied so that they vould
not lose their enthusiasn. ‘The people vho had been with Ray in los
Angeles told Estevez that if lying vas a vay of life for JURE they
would back out, that they had left Cuba because Castro had lied to
them, and that they vere not going to take any more lies from any~
body. ‘This was the end of JURS and I have their document vhich is
extremely interesting, but this is uniwportant nov.

12, Now, let's take a quick look at Hanuel Artive, In the
opinion of 95% of the Cubans that consider themselves in the "know",
Artime 48 a puppet, attached to the strings of the CIA. He's fea,
clothed and maneuvered by CIA to its wish and nothing else. This is
@ general consensus in all Cuben circles, so Artie is not takea
seriously. Artime, however, {9 a very interesting person, be's
@ good speaker, and nice-looking, but I consider bis thinking very
much along the lines of Fascisa., Waen he travels he takes several
of his strong looking friends along, and when he speaks in public
places they seem to vatch the corners, and look very nasty with
their insignias and all, I hed the pleasure of asking Artine vhen
he addressed the prestigious Association for the Economic Reconstruc-
tion of Cuba ‘n Miami in March 1964, if he was sure that he was mot
being used as a puppet for elements in the American Government that

ae



Enclosure to
IA-2y4-65
5 April 1965

wanted to keep Cuba as a showplace in America to prove to the rest of
Aserica how bad Comauniem vas, This was one of the theorics aking
the reunis in Washington, 1.e., the horrible example, To ay surprise
and to his, there vas tremendous applause. I've got that on tape too.
T asked Artime if he was net a traitor to his country. He told oe
that a ean who had been condemned to death and been in prison for

two years vas bard to deceive, vhich vas not an answer, But it
sounied very nice and I didn't insist. Anyvay, Artioe at this time --
we're’ talking now on March 24, 1965 -- I hear, has just completely
dismantled his operation. Since the unpleesantness in Costa Rica
which supposedly had to do with some contraband activities that
invoived the brother of President Orlich of Costa Rica hinself,
Artive's group has been dismantled. Most of his people are now in-
volved in another operation developing around Miaai and said to be
backed by the CIA or the Pentagon -- I don’t know vhich. When I

was in Miami in January and February 1965, I found that there were
two groups of Americans handling Cubans. The CIA people vho vere
handling one kind of Cubans and then the Pentagon, apparently, vas
maneuvering another group. I really don't know hov wuch truth there
is to this, I was told that the Pentagon people were at odds with
CIA and that they vere going to try and get their ovn group of Cubans
just to show CIA hoy it should be done. Artime’s people have gore

to a sroup supposedly handled either by the Pentagon or by CIA.

13. There is another thing that I Just found out in the last
veek. Most of the people who were getting checks from CIA through
its different devices had been fired and that there vas @ panic
arcund Miami. These people vho had been living and bringing up
thetr facilies with CIA checks were suddenly left out in the cold.

I con't kuow how much truth there is in this either. I don’t know
vhat Artie is doing now although I talked to a relative of one of
Artize's close associates who told we today that there is @ very
larse wove by the American Governuent inaide of Cuba. In other
words, the ideas of invasions or hit and run, and all that seem to
be passe. Now the big thing is the assassination of Castro and the
insurrection inside Cuba by people who are discontent, that is, the
Castro followers the CIA has been able to reach. I understand there
has been a tremendous anount of vork done in the last tvo years by
Averican agencies, and tremendous files compiled of vho in Cuba could
be counted upon at certain times for certain things.

18, This is fine end dandy and who knows, uaybe tomorrow ve will
hear toat Castro has been assassinated and that the CIA plen has slready
done what it is expected to do. I have only public information ard am



TA-783-5)
5 April 1905

not privy to any secrets either {n the Azerican agencies or in the
Cuban higher echelona -- so, I don't knev, I just hear rumors.

25. The next thing that kind of blew the air out of the Cuban
exiles was the arrest of Menoyo of the Alpha 66, etc., group. Menoyo,
in the opinion of wany Cubans, is a political sangster and s double-
dealer. He has the confidence only of his own small group of followers.
Menoyo, from vhat I have been told, jumped the gun on sovething else
that vas being prepared. His going into Cuba with three cther men
sounds pretty stupid unless Menoyo suspected or vas told that the big
inside push vhich is called In Onda Anericans, the Aperican Wave,
was imminent, and he jumped the gun so that he could get lined up
before anybody else and take over the government. In my book Menoyo
is not terribly important and does not bave much of a follovizg. He

- has a few nice guys, but they're on the fringe of being cracxpots and

dreamers, not bad, but mixed up in their winds and hungry for pover.
They call themselves revolutionaries but instinctively fear anything
that has a democratic process. They vant to take Cuba at the point
of a gun and keep it that way. So Menoyo's capture is another blow
to the Cuban exiles, Sven ir they didn'y like hiv, they said, "Ir
Henoyo opens up a beachhead in Cuba, ‘Viva Menoyo'! ve will go and
fight with hin!”

16. So ve leave Menoyo in his peaceful prison in Havana and
go to the last and saddest of the Cuban disasters in the exile
movement -~ that is the complete flop of the RECE, the Representa-
tion of Cuban Exiles. As you know, I was deeply involved in the
foruation of this organization because I believed it had @ chance.
The quality of the ven behind this idea vere top people, most of
vhom I knew by first nape, others I had crown up vith. The central
figure, Jose Bosch, head of the Bacardi Company, commands respect
and is a patriot. Hovever, RSCE disintegrated @ couple of weeks
ago. It might interest you to know that on 9 Jun 64, a few weeks
after the referendum was completed, I wrote a confidential, private
letter to Dr. Ernesto Freyre, xbo was one of the five wen appointed
vy the committee and approved by a referendua of over 40 thousand
Cubans. I told Dr. Freyre, wy old and personal friend, what, in ay
opinion, they should do to make RSCS successful. I told hio that the
first thing was to ignore Washington completely. I said, "I don't
have anything against the Awericans -~ but right now you bead an
organization that bas the approval of 90% of the Cuban exiles.

Use this moral support you have and try to create a real Cuban
outfit. If you do, you'll get the backirg of the Bacanti Coepany
and the million dollars it offered at the start. Use it judiciously



Enclosure to
A265
5 April 1965

and create a strong, vell-knit Cuban organization and don't ask
anything from the Avericans. Ask the Cuban people for contribu-
tions; there are over a hundred thousand vorking in the US. At
$5.00 @ wonth, which they could easily pay, you vould have half a
million dollars a nonth to vork vith. You cen do a lot vith a half
@ million dollars a month.” But above all (I continue ay letter
from memory), don't go to Washington, Just act as if the US Govern-
ment did not exist. If somebody comes to the office and wants to
know what you're doing, treat them courteously and give them all the
information they vant as far as the operation of the outfit. We are
living in the US apd I think that any American officiel 1s entitled
to.kmow what is going on. But-as far ae our own private plans for
the liberation of Cuba, they belong to the Cubans at this tice. Then,
I told Dr: Freyre, if you do this, you will then be able to deal with
the US Government on @ completely different basis, not with your hat
in your hand. But if you have the solid backing of half a sillion
Cubans throughout the vorld you will cowmand the respect not only

of the American Government but also of the other countries of latin
America. I told his I thought the RECE should evolve into a govern-
went in exile because that vould be the logical thing, and the only
type of organizstion people would understand. What did they do?
They scooted dovn to Iatin America with no support except their

40 thousand votes, they talked to people in latin America. Every-
body promised thes the sky but with one condition -- that Uncle San
approve. Then they vent to Washington and found out that Uscic Sam
did not approve. After nine oonths they blew up last veek and threw
in the tovel. ‘vo delegates resigned and the other three seid that
they vould do some housekeeping until they saw what happened.

17. Before leaving the PECE in its peaceful grave I think I
should nention that I nad gone all through the process of the
referendum itself, and after the RECS was formed I vas the delegate
in oe Angeles. After tne referendum vas coupleted I helped get four
other delegetes so that ve vould have five delegates viich like the
delegations throughout their country, and in Mexico City, Caracas,
ete., duplicated the original group of five. In Noveaber I resigned
because I could not get ansvers to a list of questions -- ansvers
for which I thought I vas justified in asking -- t.e., regarding its
finances, activities, successes, prospects, etc. That takes care of
the RECE. Hie

18. So now, we've reached the corent of truth. All these things
have gone down the drain. During my recent visit to Miami there vas
one last hope which seened still alive. I was told ceverai tines by
these people that there is something very, very big being worked out



ry

Enclosure to
TA-22h-65,
5 April 1065

dy the US agencies, that this very, very big toning 1s imminent,
that it is based exclusively on an internal uprising and perhaps

the possibility of the assassization of Castro as a kickoff. Tyo
days ago I received @ communication from a person vho is close to

US Government people in Miszi, representatives of the State Demart-
went, and also CIA people. He said that we should be patient, that
the end is not far away and that the so-called Onda Americana is
going to solve the problem, In other words, whatever organization

is working on the Cuban problea apparently is on the verge of giving
the vord to whomever is inside Cuba connected with this operation.

+I have little hope that this my be true. After five years, I have
no reason to beleve that circusstances at this tive are different
than two or three years ego. Of course, I have to recognize that

the Johnson administration is not the same as the Kennedy adninistra-
tion, as witness the lack of hesitation in the Vietnam situation. It
may interest you to know that a group of Cubans fron RECE recently in
Washington vere told by important people in no uncertain terms that
the Cuban problem is certainly not top draver right now, but second,
third or fourth. The top draver is Vietnam and that once Vietnam is
Solved one vay or another, peruaps the Cuban situation would be moved
up to the forefront, if no other area of the world flares up.

19. So,-this is the situation that brings us right dom to
the point which I wanted to discuss with you in detail -- the formation
of a Cuban Government in Exile as the only possible solution to move
the Cuban situation off dead center, whether the US Governnent is
willing at this tive to help or not. We feel that the creation of a
Cuban Government in Exlle, if done right and has the poral authority
and the solid backing of the Cutan exiles, could possibly create a
situation where, without having to risk any American lives, the Cuban
problem and the Communist threat in Cuba could be eliainated without
danger of World War III, or escalation, or anybody dropping the famous
bomb in New York or Washington, I sm going to tell you vay a group
of people, including ayself, believe very strongly that this govern-
went in exile should be wade ss scon es possible, and ac vell as
possible, And the fact that if it were a fait accompli it would
create some drastic changes in the thinking of the State Derartment
regarding a Cuban Government in Sxile.

20. The beginning of the idea of a governvent in exile started
at an OAS meeting in Washington in July 1964 when Dr. Prio and Dr.
Marquez Sterling capitalized on their personal, old friendszips
with the present Secretary of State of Brazil, Vasco leitao Da Cunha,
and also the ex-aabassador of Argentina, Julio Amocedo, to further

~10-


Enclosure to
1A-29 4-65,
5 April 1965

these ideas, Both the latter had been antassadors to Cuba during
the Prio regine and there were strong ties between thea, At the
time of this conference in vuly 1964, apparently Prio convinced
Leitao and Ancedo that the idea of a Cubun Government in Exile
vould be a solution to the Cuban problem. Brazil still hed fresh
in its mind the horrible scare of going Communist, and Leitao is
strongly anti-Communist. He offered Prio a place to gatier in
Brazil for most of the Cuben leaders (and he knew them all). The
List of people to te invited to Brazil contained all the top leaders
in exile. I can give you their naves but I think it vould be just
acadewic because the yathering did not take place. This proposal
created trecendous excitement among the Cuban exiles and of course
Prio wentioned it es the basis for his enthusiasm in creating a
governwent in exile. Dr. Prio felt that if Brazil, vhich is the
largest nation in latin America, and the most popular with the US,
especially now that it hes a friendly governuent, vould recognize
the Cuban Government in Exile and give it @ temporary home there
that this vould persuade the US to cooperate in som vay or another.
The fact 16 that recently the Brazilian authorities turned dovn Dr.
Prio, much to bis sorrov. ‘The information I have js that there vere
sowe very strong pressures exerted by the State Department on the
Brazilian Governsent against the idea of cooperating with Dr. Prio
or any of his friends, in creating a Cuban Governnent in Exile.

Just a fev days ago in Hiaoi, Mr. Leitao told Dr. Prio, and this

is very reliable inside inforwation, that if he had gone anead vith
the original plans of inviting Prio and other Cubans to Zrazil, he

night have lost his Job.

21, Incidentally, yesterday I had a very interesting tidbit
vhich I don't know 4s true or not. Perhaps tomorroy it will be all
academic, but I was told that Prio and Leitao would have one last
secret meting in Houston, ‘Texas, vhere Mrs. Leitao is taking some
kind of medical treateent, So perhaps this ie not cumpletely dead
yet or gayte Leitao wants to appear as trying to ingist some gore --
I don't nov, but it 16 interesting.

22, Anyway, after the Brazilian turn-down, the ¥lent leadership
was staggered. Ho one knew what to do next or vhom to talk to.
Apparently the Cuban leaders felt that unless they had tne support
of o latin Averican country they would not be able to go ahead with
their government in exile idia.

Pes Wey

2
~

<



Enclosure to
TA-254-65
5 April 1965

23. Ae & result of scoething that happened more recently, I
have real hopes. In the lsst few days, perhaps you have heard,
there wus an unbelievsble plebiscite held in Miaui first, then in
Ios Angeles, ani then im Nev York and Puerto Rico, in which people
vere just invited ty  comaittee of vowen to coe to certain places
and express thearelves on a little card on vhether they wanted a
government in exile to be formed. Well, the reaction vas un-
believable. I gave out only tvo small announcerents on ay radio
Program, and ve had aloost 5000 people coe to Hollywood and Vine
on @ rainy, cold afternoon to deposit their little postcards saying
"We want @ government in exile.” Miami had close to 50 thousand
do the save, New York had over 50 thousand people. Puerto Rico
bad another 10 or 15 thousand. In other vords, it vas a spontaneous,
legitiuate reaction of the Cuban public in favor of having some kind
of an organization to represent them in their exile.

2h, As a result of this informal plebiscite, we've resolved
in Los Angeles to ignore the impasse thet had come about in the
lesdership in Miami, to ignore the difficulties and complications
and all the things that people told us would be icpossible in
having a government in exile vithout the support of the US, and go
ahead. And this is the main reason for wy visit vith you tonight.
The idea, incidentally, of a government in exile way raise sone
hackles in the State Departoent but froma purely legal point of
view, I feel, and I have no reason to believe the contrary, that the
Cubans in exile here are not violating any law of the US -- federal,
state or local -- because vhat they are doing at this time is running
an election to deternine the opinion of 200 thousand~300 thousand
people as to vhom they think should take over the leadership of the
exiles. Until such tine as those elected declare themselves a
government in exile there would be no conflict with US laws.
Perhaps at that tipe, once these people are elected and accept
the election, they can then discuss this point vith the State
Department. If the State Departeent tells them that if they declare
theaselves @ governzent in exile that they're going to jail, then
all they have to do is find out if Costa Rica vill take them, or El
Salvador, or Brazil, or vhatever. Of course, they and we know that
most of these countries are strongly dependent upon US aid and loans,
and so fortn, for their operation ard there is no doubt in my mind
that it ie going to take a little persuasion to get a Latin American
country to defy the US and give this government in exile a piece of
land and recognition. But there is an alternative which ve have
considered and this i3 that these wen who will be elected in this
process do not necessarily Lave to declare thenselves a governcent

212+

vy


7

in exile, They could declare themselves to be sowe kind of a
leadership Junta, or ® prearatory coeaittee or viatever, to avoid
ny legal problems with the State Departaeat of the US.

25, There has been -- I telieve I mentioned it before -- a
tremendous amount of floundering by the leaders in Miami after the
Brazilian denial of a meeting place in Rio de Janciro and a group
of us in California, and frankly I have been the prime instigator
in this, have decided not to wait for the people in Miami, but to
go ahead and start an election in California to sce how it vorks
out. I can asgure you that in the planning of this whole election
there have ‘been no participants except a nuaber of us Cubsns all
of vhow I think are in good faith and who may not be leaders but
are intelligent and vell weaning. So, we decided to start here
in California vhere, incidentally, the passions of politics are not
es vehement. In Miami, the people are intense in their political
passions and their brains are clouded. For instance, about five
or six days ago, I called Dr, Eduardo Suarez Grivas, who is the
pover behind Prio’s political wachinery. All the meetings are held
in hie house and he is the real brains of this whole thing. This
wan was a Cuban senator for some 10 years and one of the wost active
in passing good, progressive legislation. 1 consider him one of the
wost brilliant men in the political strata of Miami. I talked to him
for half an hour on the phone, had to let hiw know what ve vere
planning and to ask him if there was any possibility of our endanger-
ing something that vould be good for Cuba because, if a0, ve wouldn't
do it. Our objective is the liberation of Cuba, if our move here
could possibly upset something else, te vould refrain. Ic asked ue
to wait a fev days because something vas going on but I learned from
other sources that the situation down there was alnost chaotic so we're

going ahead,

26. Now, what are we going to do? Well, this is the story;
we call 1t the California Plan, We are going to hold an election
on April 25th -- that's about four weeks frou now roughly -= that
will give us plenty of tice. The mechanics are these: We will
invite every Cuban in the Los Angeles area to come to one of 15 to
25 predetermined polling places throughout the city and surrounding
areas vhere ve know that there ere a nuuber of Cubans. We think
that ve vill be able to use the International Institute on Boyle
Street, the-CYO building in East Los Angeles, several churches,
including the Blessed Sacrazent here in Hollywood, a number of
Yasonic temples, the Knights of Columbus hall dovntown at Ronnie
Brae and Ninth, and a nusver of business places. For instance,
there are about five Cuban restaurants ve will turn into polling
places, a few stores, snops, and gas stations owned and operated

+3

the we



Enclosure to
1A-294-65
5 April 1965

by Cubans, The polls will be open from 0900 to 1500, Sunday,
April 25th. .

27. In each polling place there will be @ looseleaf register
on vhich the person coning in to vote will put his name, hie signa-
ture, his address, telephone, and then his identification, which
Will be checked. We will accept Cuban passports, void or not,
Iwatgration cards, and driver's licenses, plus whatever other
identification is approved by the voting committee. We will meet

Saturday (27 Mar 65] vith six ex-magistrates of the Cuban courts

vho have had electoral experience. They will give us guidance on
hov to do this properly. After the person identifies hinself end
registere ve will give him a ballot to mark in private. Either
from his wenory, or from an information sheet available be will
vote for a president, a vice-president and for perhaps as few as 15
or as many as 25 wenbers of an advisory council. The nusber has
not yet been determined. The advisory council vould have certain
veto povers over the President, as ve do not vant another dictator.
There will be another aren on the ballot for a regional representa~
tive of each city that has more than five thousand Cuban residents.

28. When the people wark their ballots and drop them into the
ballot box we wili ‘solicit vhatever financial help they can afford
to defray thio election expense, which will approximate $2,000.
We will try as far ss possible to have a former weuber of the Cuban
Judiciary at each polling place, along with one or two members of the
2506th Brigade on guard. We will try to get the cooperation of the
city in providing us vith police. At 1500 ve will seal the ballot
voxes and try to have the city or some similar authority impound
them so that they will be out of the hands of Cubans until they
are properly counted. This may be a little shameful but we don't
want anyone in Miami or any place to say that these elections were
fraudulent because ve handled the ballots.

29. To help keep the election clean ve will stamp the hand
of the voter with a special ink of the type used at race tracks
and places of anusement. This ink only shows when put under black
or ultraviolet light. Having ence cast e ballot, they will be unable
to vote again in any other place because they will be marked. That
is one vay of keeping it clean.

30. Eligibles will include every Cuban over 18 or 21 -- ve
have not decided the age yet. We would like to keep as close as
possible to the age provided in the 1940 constitution of Cuba, 50
vbatever the constitution says, that's what we're going to abide by.

- lb -



ie * Enclosure to
TA-294-05
5 April 1965

31. To help people's memories ve will provide with each ballot
@ separate sheet containing apprximately 100 names vith o brief
biography of each person, each of vhom bas taken part in various
activities during the six years of exile, ‘They will be from every
Bide of the political fence. If voters vant to have soceone who is
not on this list, it 1s their privilege. This is a free and in-
dependent popular expression or election, if you want to call it
that. .Perhaps in about a week or so ve will buy a full-page in
Ia Opinion [Spanish-langunge daily in Los Angeles] and explein
the wiole procedure. Also, we're going to keep a barrage of radio
@nnouncenents going, explaining to the Cuban people the iaportance
of the election, giving out the names, doing everything possible to
create enthusiasm for these elections.

32. Now, this is going to shock many people in New York and
Miami, but ve want to shock them because they don’t seem to be
doing anything at all. If, between now and the 25th of April,
they get their heads together and dé something similar, fine.
All ve want to do is get the ball rolling. Hopefully, they will
do something similar,

33. Incidentally, I should mention that we are going to try
in the next week, after ve get everything straightened out, to
contact someone in the larger US cities, Mexico City, Puerto Rico,
Caracas, Madrid and Santa Domingo, which are big centers of Cuban
exiles, and all the Central American republics. We're going to try
to encourage elections simultaneously in each of these countries
and in every city of the US. If we are capable in the next four
weeks to get the ball rolling in all these centers of Cubans, then
ve will count the bailots that same day. Ir we can only have our
own elections in the Western states on the 25th of April, then ve
will place the sealed ballot boxes in safe-keeping and wait until
the other cities have held their elections and then do the counting
the same day. Otherwise, we might destroy the whole election if we
Indicated Celifornia's preferences.

34. Now, let's suppose that the elections have come off
beautifully throughout the vhole world, with expressions from
200 to 300 thousand Cubans. What happens next? Well, those who
have deen elected are going to have to act because they have
received a mndate I am sure they vill regard very carefully.

I can tell you now that the people elected who do not accept
this mandate had better forget ahout going back to Cuba. The

~15-



a

Enclosure to
TA-294 -65
5 April 1965

next move io this: These people are suing to have to decide how they’re
going to operate, and perhaps get in touch with the US State Department
to determine what is and what is not legal. Perhaps they moy have to
go to 4 Central American country, perhaps to Panaza, vho knows? But
the most important thing ‘that I want you to know is that ve are going
tw subait to the government of exiles or in exile a waster plan for the
liberation of Cuba.

35. This waster plan is sisple and ve believe strongly in it.

_ This governvent in exile or of exiles vould have such trevendous

authority vith the backing of perhaps 320 thousand Cubans that it
would be strong enough to overcome the fears of the State Departeent.
We believe that the American people vould endorse this exercise of
democracy right in their ovn yard by people who vent to liberate their
own country . I think that the people of the US, if properly informed,
would probably vant their government to help. I don't think that the
People of the US would tolerate aay opposition from the State Depart-
went unless it could prove that this vas bad for the US. Knowing the
influence of American public opinion, ve feel that thie step will
actually change the thinking of the people in State who at this time
may be opposed to this idea.

36. Now, if we are able to alter the thinking of the State Depart-
went so that it will not oppose whatever latin Awerican countries my
be disposed to help the exile woverent, then we come to the final stage
of our thinking and our reason for creating this government of exiles
in exile, The final stage is simply this, The government of exiles or
in exile, or at least its President and its equivalent of Secretary of
State, perhaps, should visit each of the heads of government of the
following republics: Guatemala, Honduras, Nicaragua, El Salvador, Costa
Rica, Panama, Colombia, Venezuela, Dominican Republic, and the free
associated State of Puerto Rico. The exile group should discuss with
the heads of these 10-Caritbean countries a plan for orgenizing in each
an arny or @ brigade which hopefully would be composed of ‘three elements:
Cubacs, local citizenry and local cilitary men.

37, The Cubans of military age vould come from all over to get
wilitary training at bases provided in one of these 10 countries.’ We
think that the Cuban element would number approximately 50 thousand
Cubans of military age who would be distributed throughout these 10
countries. Then we vould lisve the local citizenry, the youth of these
10 countries, who vould like to participate in this Army of the Caribbean,
not to fight Castro for the sake of the Cubans, put for their ovn safety
and for their ova countries. Castro has proven hiaself a menace to the
internal security of every country in the Caribbean -~ Venezuela is the



most glaring exauple. The youngsters in these countries, vitn a
sense of patriotism and adventure, shocid provide another 50 thousand
men to be trained with the Cubans in tz{s ring of steel around the

- Caribbean, Then, the cost ioportast part of this army of Liveration |

in the Caribbean vould be volunteers free the regular arny of each
of these countries provided we could vers things out with their own
governments so that they vould not lose either their citizenship,
position or reputation by reason of veiunteering for this ary of
the Caribbean,

38. Now come: the big questions -- Wio is going to pay for all
this? Who is going to supply the ammmition? Or the military hard-
ware? Or the armada necessary for sn invasion of Cuba by an eray
that may have betveen 150 thousand ani AW thousand men. We believe
that the Cuban Governuent of exiles or in exile can make arrangenents
with each of these countries to provide tases, military facilities, -
training areas, military advisors, food, and housing for that part
of the liberation force in that country. If one or another country
is not financially able to do this I sm sure that once the army
begins to form, the bases vorking and the training started, there
would. be @ move throughout all of Averica, north, central and-south,
to raise funds for Cuba's liberation. i'a sure that millions vould
be available.

39. The next question is ailitary sardvare. I'm afraid Uncle
Saw, directly or indirectly, is the only source of supply that ve
ean look to, We would like to keep Urcie Sam out of any inter-
national involvement and let this te essentially a movement by
Intin Awericans for latin American purprses. Hovever, there should
be nothing to keep the US from supplying these legitimate govern-
ments with vhatever arus they request. ‘he latter, in turn, could
wake these arms available to the brisades being trained in each
country. I believe the US Government is as anxious to eradicate
Communism from America as it is from Southeast Asia, and certainly,
it can find a way to supply hardware to tcese 10 inter-Awerican
armies within completely normal inter-sovernseat transactions.
There need be no direct contact detveen the US Government and the
Cuban exiles, :

40, Once this army is trained there's alvays the possibility
Castro might be assassinated, or other Aericaa plans might be put
into cperation, or if the Cubans inside cy Cuba do it taemselves,
Well, then the battle {s von. In that barry event, we will dis-
santle this operation and return to Cums. If none of these things
happen, andthe aruy goes ahead, thea the way I see it is this.

I don't honestly think that this army of liberation will ever have

-~W7-



Enclosure to
TA-294-65
5 April 1965

land in Cuba as an invading army. I believe that vhen thia army
is ready to pounce, the people around Castro wiJl tell him they
don’t think they should be there any longer. Then ve'll see
either Castro fly out of Cuba or have his head blovn off by his
ovn men, most of vbom vould ratner be heroes of the revolution
and save vhat they can. In ay opinion, this vould end the affair,
but if it docen't, then the army of liberation will have to invade
Cuba and go all-out. This is the way I see it and ;thie is about
the end of it.

41. I think I shoul4 point out at tis stage that the elections
ve are preparing are completely different from the ones conducted
for RECE. ‘The RECK plan presented a package of five wen to the
Cuban people on a take-it-or-leave-it basis and I think many people
resented this. There vere no alternatives. Ours ie different. Ours
4s a completely blank ballot. ‘The voter can choose anyone he vents,
even bis mother-in-law. So I think the people will react favorably.

42. I think before ending I vould like you to hear the words
of Dean Rusk vhen he spoke at a Los Angeles World Affairs Council
luncheon at the Beverly Hilton Hotel on Sept. 16, 1964. I asked
him from the floor if the State Department was grooming RECE for 4
government {n exile. At that time I really thought this was happen-
ing since RECE people had been so secretive about their activities
in Washington, Rusk said,

“Well, I don't want to probe the future unduly
in this current situation but there are some tough
problems ‘about m government in exile that ve should
keep in mind. In the first place, Cubans outeide of
Cuba have not been strongly united and there are a
considerable number of divergent groups, and wy under-
standing 1s that they have not yet been able to come
together with the degree of solidarity that vould
speek vith authority on such a point. Then one must
bear in wind also the attitude of the people who
remain in Cuba and what their attitude tovard such
leaders might be. Nor what would be their role to
play in any future development on the island. Third,
I would like to emphasize that it is of the greatest
importance to us to deal with the Cuban question on
as broad a hemispheric basic as possible. We made
great strides in the last year or two in moving in

aie)



Bnelosure to
TA-298-65
5 April 1965

thet direction. I've already comvented on that
earlier today. And there 19 considerable suspicion,
frankly, throughout Latin America about things called
governments in exile. Of course, far froe the Cubsn
Question, this idea appears to oany of us to te an
instrupent vhich might lend itself to intications

of other sorts and other places at other tines,

And so there's considerable sensitivity about
governments in exile in the heoiephere, I per-
sonally would not think there would be great
advantace in our recognizing @ government in

exile if we vere the only ones to do so.”

43. These are the vords of Secretary of State, Dean Rusk,
regarding governvents in exile in general ani a Cuban government
in exile, in particular. As we can see, the Secretary of State
does not express ideas that are contrary to those ve have expressed
in this conversation we've had today with you. ‘here are several
points in Dean Rusk’s conversation that lead me to think that if
the Cuban governnent in exile 1s prepared in accordance vith the
plan of elections we have outlined earlier, there is a very strong
possibility that the State Department would change its present
attitude and not only accept the possibility of s government in
exile but even recognize it under the proper circuastances. If
seven, or eight, or 10 nations, in the Caribbean or Argentina
and Brazil decide to recognize this governcent, there's no reason
why the State Department could not change its present negative

attitude.

4h, Naturally, there are many questions left unanswered in
this conversation but I would be very happy to ansver any further
questions that you or the people that are associated with you may
have. Before I finish I Just want to express ey strong feelings
that the cause of the Cuban exiles and the security of the US are
parallel, although there wight be Some divergent points in procedure
of international consequences. But I am going ahead with this elec-
tion in California with the hope that it will help create # Cuban
government of exiles or in exile, whichever 4s the final wording,
and it willbe for the future security of this country, as well as
the liberation of Cuba, With these words, I vould like to close -
this chat and thank you for your attention.

(re. tl; %B& Do not fail to see Para, 5 thru 8 of accompanying memo. }
> end -

-19-

