# 104-10056-10128

## Page 1

104-10056-10128

ASSEM EN

40

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFISE

_ PED

- TRIAL" COPIES"

• SECRET

ITEZ,

IMPOET

PY: 006687!

•DVANCE COP

ISSUED/SIOTTEr

ACTION UNI

LA 10

ACTION &

ey

AT

FILE, VR, ENTSERREZSBEREEEE IP/DMS, IID, PCS/IRT

AGENCY MESSAGE

CI Ha CA 4a SIMa SIA/IC- KEFR 5.

т 20815€

E1 46 57

PAGE B1

1N 416072

TOR: 2820502 SEP 77

22958

SECRET 2BIOLSZ SEP 77 INTEL

HJK-7=3

CI TE

2295R

TO: DIRECTOR,

Obs ir

WNINTEL INTEL REAM

SUFDATA: EPWAHDO FOR HOS REVIEMO PROJECT SLEEPER, SLHORIZONE

FROM FERSONAL KNOWLEDEE, NOT PASSED

LIAISON. NOT

FOR PASSAGE TO LIAISON, THIS REPORT SHOULD NOT RET

NOT EE FASSED TO GNORAPH. O.D. OBUNS. INDEX:

BRONN, MUNROE, FILE: 103-002, 20I-BS7OZEE. CLEM

2582451 FJK-735.

FILED:

2329452

12242226 16

00093

11.11807

...

---

## Page 2

13-00000

CIA INTERNAL USE ONLY

INTELLIGENCE INFORALATION CABLE

DATE 28 "SEPTEMBER 1577

IN

476072

PAGE 1 OF4 PAGES

•WARNING NOTICE

*SENSITTVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

•-The foliowing repori, tronsmited from o ClA field station, requires review within the Directorate of Operations before being used

in any-other document.or publication.or-released outside the-Agency.-fendingresults.of this review. a copy is provided for your

advance information.

DISSEMINATION AND EXTRACTION OF INFORMATION CONTROLLED BY ORIGINATOR

DISTRIBUTION TO: SDO

E-2 IMPDET CL BY 00767

FEPORT CLASS SECRET--WARNING NOTICE--SENSITIVE INTELLI ENCE

SOURCES AND METHDDS INVOLVED--NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN

NATIONALS--NOT PELEASABLE TO CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACTORI

CONSULTANTS--DISSEMINATION AND EXTRACTION OF INFORMATION

CONTROLLED EY ORIGINATOR

COUNTRY:: CUB'/JAMAIC

DO !:

SEPTEMBER-DCTGEER 1977

SUBJECT: CLOSES MEETING OF MEMEERS OF THE COMMUNIST PARTY

DF QUER AT THE CUBAN EMBASSY IN KINGSTON ON

2- SEPTEMSER 1977.

400:

JAMAICH, KINGSTON IZE EFTEMEER 1977 REPORT NO. HUK-735

SOURCE: A GUSAN DEFICIAL VISITING LMICH, HE WAS PRESENT

AT THE MEETING DESCRIBED BELON, ALTHOUGH IT IS

BELIEVED THAT HE AOCURATELY REPORTS KHAT HE HAS

SEEN TOLD, HIS RELIABILITY HAS NOT BEEN DETERMINED.

=.

ON Z4 SEPTENGER 197T, ENRIQUEONTERE

LEECHNO, MINISTER-COUNSELLOR OF THE CUBEN EMBASSY IN KINGSTON,

LEDRESSED THE REGULAF MONTHLY MEETINE OF THE MENDERS OF THE

---

## Page 3

13-0006

EDITIONS

IN 416072

TDFIR

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

PAGE 2 OF 4 PAGES

SECRET

(classitication)

...FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO

CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.

RAMON PE Z FERRD, WHU RETURNED TO CUBA ON VACATION ON

21 SEFTEMBER, THE MEETING TOOK PLACE AT THE EMBASSY:

2, MONTERO SAID THAT INTERNAL DIVISIONS WITH IN THE

RULINE PEDPLE'S NATIONAL PARTY (PNPS. OF JAMAICA HAD

RE SUL TED

IN THE RESIGNATION OF D. K. DUNCAN AS PNE GENERAL

SECRETARY AND MINISTER OF MOBILIZATION. MONTERO SAID THAT

THE AFFOINTMENT OF RALPHER DIN AS THE NEW PIF GENERAL

SECRETARY HAD BEEN GENERALY WELL-RECEIVED WITHIN THE PNE.

MONTERO DESCRIBED BADAN AS & MATURED EXPERIENCED PARTY.

OFFICIAL WHO WOULD BE DELE TO SERVE AS A "MODERATOR" BETLEEN

THE "RIGHTISTS," "MODERATES" AND "LEFTISTS" OF THE PNE.

3. MONTEFO COMPLAINES THAT THE JAMAICAN PRESS HAD

EXPLOITED BROWN'S RECENT TRIE TO GUSA FOR ITS "CAMPAIGN OF

CONFUSION", IN FAILING TO REFOOT THE PURPOSE OF THE TRIF,

THE PRESS. IMPLIED THAI THERE WERE UNKNOWN, SINISTER

MOTIVES SEHIND iT.

MONTERE SATE THAT EROWN HAD GONE TO CUBA

MERELYIN DROP TO ATTEND THE FIRST CONGRESS OE THE CUBAN

COMMITTEES FOR THE DEFENSE OE THE REVOLUTION CEDRI, TO EE

-= 6-2 Mо1E0 57 77 GB0XIMTELY 25

FoRBld C6odTR1E6 rare 684 2990479 77 7-19 90499955.

---

## Page 4

13-00000

IN 432072

TDFIP.

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

PAGE 3 OF 4 PAGES

-SECRET

FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO

CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.

classification!

(FIELD COMMENT: ACCORDING TO THE PRESS, BROWN LEFT JAMAICA

ON 23 SEPTEMEER FOR A THBEE DAY VISIT TO CUBA, THE PURFOSE

OF WHICH WAS NOT INDICATED. ON THE NICHT OF Z7 SEPTEMBER,

IT WAS REPORTED ON JAMAI

CAN TELEVISI ON THAT BROWN HAD MADE

A STATEMENT CONCERNING HIS TRIP FOLLOWING HIS RETURN THAT

DAY TO JAMAICA, HE SAID HE HAD GONE TO CUBA SOLELY IN

ORDER TO ATTEND THE COR CONGRESS, AND HE CRITICIZED THE

DISTORTED MANNER IN NICH THE JAMAICAN PRESS HAD REPORTED

ON HIS TRIP!

4, MONTERO BRIEFLY ADDED THAT DR, TREVOR MUNROE,

LELDER OF THE WORKERS! LIBERATION LEAGUE PULLD, TRAVELED TO

QUEL FROM JAMAICH ON ZI SEFTEMBER, HE DID NOT INDICATE TRE

PURPOSE OF MUNROEIS VISIT TO CUEL, FINALLY, MONTERO SAID IT

WAS QUITE PROBABLE THAT BELARMING CASTILLA MAS, CUBAN

VICE MINISTER OF CULTURES WOULD VISIT JAMAICA DURING

THE SECOND HALF OF OCTOESE.

5, MONTERO CALLED ON ALL POO MEMBERS TO BE ALERT FOR

ANY COUNTER-REVOLUTI DHARY ACTIVITIES EY CUBAN EXILES AND

TO MAINTAIN THE MIGREET STANDARDS OR SECURITYA HE SAIE

1 frotest.

---

## Page 5

13-00000

IN 416072

TDriP.

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

PAGE U OF 4 PAGES

SECRET

"FURTHER "DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO

CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.

(ciassificaiion.)

OF PERU. HE ALSD SLID: THLT CUBAN EXILES SUCH

AS FNU-D 1.4 Z

• LAN AND OTHERS HAD BEEN INVOLVED IN THE ASSASSINATION OF

PRESIDENT JOHN F, KENNEDY,, MONTERO DID NOT ELABORATE,

6, FIELD DISSEM: EMBASSY AT KINGSTON CAMBASSIDOR ONLYS..

REPORT CLASS SECRET--WARNING NOTICE--SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE

SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED--NOT RELEASABLE TO FORETEN

NATIONALS--NOT RELEASABLE TO CONTRACTORS. OR CONTRICTORI

CONSULTANTS--DISSEMINATION AND EXTRAGTION OF INFORMATION

CONTROLLED BY ORIGINATOR, GLASSIFIED BY RECORDED REPORTING

OFFICER.

XEDS= Z.

* Major Pedro DIAZ Lanz, former head of

the Cuban Air Force (preceded Major Juan

ALMEIDA) . Defected.

00-B 3/169,982, 28

October 1960

---

