# 104-10220-10131

## Page 1

1004-10220-10131

COMTIRENTIAL

7 6684

Donors 1 ea 109 19

UNITST STATES GONERDLENT

Memorandum

Memorandur For the Record

i, DATe: 3 March 1966

man 8-1946

SUBjPUT: Foundation for Orphans in Greece, Inc.

- Site

572684 1. The subject organization is an American organization, Pounded

X I11l1an Yarlka, & US citizen

or Greek extraction, whose address Be of isa van 250

West 57th Street, New York City. The addrees of the organization in 1951 vas 11

Bruadway, New York City.

In 1953, the organization's President, Mr. (fnu) Jackson, requested recog

nition of the organization from ne US Department of State as a fully authorized

voluntary foreign aid group. The Bureau of Internal Revenue recognized the organ

Izatiou as a charitable organization as early as 1951-

3. A check by OS of Deprtment of State records, disclosed that State requested

security name checks on the argenization's officers.

No derogators information was

developed.

Files of OS diaclose sone slightly derogatory information on Lillian

he tree dof the abore a cation.

---

## Page 2

72684

CO:

Chios, Porsonal Boeurity Dirlalon, O9

26 Detober 1958

1ed0:5-72684

CorSo%, i1l1Les — Battad Statos Delegato lo 128 African Peoplo!

1. A polle mlations man concerned primarily with forelen

nocounta roporte that after the deloat of Mohamed Fahgoub 1n

hio bid to booms ronatient of the UN Assombly, Ibrahla Ania, the

udanese inbunseter ip tap United States, commentod on some a

he "arsolpot" cons toroased by a Willian Lausoo.

that Lawson hed sony jury reculiar sdona..

Lawson hed atated

that Mahgoud oold Iof posalble have emposted to vin the Ull

alcotion since all the, Influential nesopapers in the United Statea

are dentshonad nod Mraid be opposed to nbgoub lo elootion.

parently, tross in a polie rolations man to nas forsod a

ryantiation to endaet sush banners for African courtre

Lamen, nosording

to, lola, v111 bo one of the Unitod

States dalegatos to the 111 Airlony Peoplos Conferenco to do hold

In deera fras 3-12 Desuber 191f Our cortoot suggested that 1n

no nest go as indiridal to unter

3. Tie lutorantion has bon fanarder to CI.

dimoted lo

"..

192684

Souree: Edward I Most

GOT FIDENTIAL

---

## Page 3

ATO]

SEGRET

57-95-84

Dirocror, Damotte Costact Servien

Casor, minaragiãa Fale 0rt1o

VAS- 5:8:68

7 OErobar 1968

A-7-56-84

2. e/s [

|0f Hachiazios FIold OPPIe A Ocrover 1968 racelvad

o celopzone call fros sto costers Bavard K. Mosa of Mosa Internatioral,

Lac., public relation coaswas, vich man ha it un bour lotor and

suraistad tio folloydi laforetion.

Tant oi corniss hoss and socolved a phone call, una later

violtod de tho tua al e

"Pöresen sarulie Offlear, not on

BOTO BORA CHI DEORY RO LES ADDEUROSE FACTUROSTI LO LOUIS UNO DOVE ERBO

BROGIA DIO CODECES VIES CLA.

{38S 08 800 MAlcoa Dosal 18 Bressato

SECRET

GREPT

C0:,136.05 058

CI0z: 7003:1

---

## Page 4

SECRET

•2 0

4A3-5:6-68

7 Oerob0r 2808

DO GEI IN0 CO B00S TNA tRO OVIat OCCUrA tlO CONNETA

AUS DOS BONO LO LOCO ENIS LOURALRE ENO SRESBIRY OP TNO EXY SYTSAI

Convenat locoo", sil1l guoties Masa. Dudachs "veoro sotarss

000°, DE JOOSE 06

UaZO B2E3.

Dasdsca8 aloirunds Blo Eraro Dipastuons and 180s080 00

ROLrIng hLo s8OrY t0 tha CLA.

nala deapira tho Btataos by DARdeciS

ChOE lIS ENONO DEd IlMOs cUI FUSTiRE ARbaIBIdOs lA DaUdI Asabio.

DostRas tha larolga sarvico Officor pantionad, Dor Moss, lo BuppOscO

to have cliorod baaluchl uny crcouragezent le his anzarprtoe orher tbra

2O ONRaVOT tN SUIVEY as BxpreSELS OL SLS I8tereat lo the CIA, Moso,

of courno, crgomo to ragly sien oiioy o the cther mod, t say

T nS C eh er utes Si , to

Tãds uprocaloas.

Dandacas cieo exproocis 1uxar0s%

1 ErStO tO "CORTUDMa IODCOLS 08 DOM"s tNDO RARORO PARO 20 O

EICE 8080R0RE EO BIRNCOS PUNSBOLI ER RNOTORA.

H eo dên 1

Opola a fEU LUmtan LaRC Viry CLOris

Lesttana es dopsan Exo

TÀO DAI.

2oi d0 Bea erreeL

Tãin bavo bis endrchs'i tvantogis

À) SỞ MIESERON DO PI LOD LOULA AUIEDEE •EUT 0I-888003

OEULaY DON MO Nn DAN tO E.

PO MHO CONSEINO dEA MEECA CIONIA EO LALO OS8LeO 0IeTE DOSTD0

MO M Hen Me L0 1 MUless se purna 5 con.

Do. 80 8400820015

0030+207868

•BoPI0e

1r aó mei nji ee sisoed!

alsiticl

Lesasnerg

SECRET

"aite

---

## Page 5

5-7-26-84

Director, Dezestle Conior. servies

BEEn: Intentional Divisior (Airloan tsais)

Cases, deubleston 011300

KA5-1655-66

31 Jammy 296S

4. 72684

MEn ilo public relicions sia personically ramanitel

octaviles vere redired and boon 11 nou semits du inputy

ABSLOtOn, M:OCtOr (1D: Peolle Balzilan, of the Alto Eruso

CER I C1 METO, 1000 & PErCE, Solo, Marigos, DoC.

lunched ulch Fisco on 27

Jenary 1966. It lan exporer tba loud coalders lis groceri

algent coparatively unrorastino and lo loodns tovaria

tant to, dulls Callial, that le de one of the fou U.S. exqure

unta African pallelcal loadaro. Ma l1d contany iban Vies-

President illan en ble our of Arica cal muld so: bo anarse la

daing to copa then VIcePresstan Lughrey my labe sho ma

In sition to this, Has my sent a is as at

He sald that last saci fana arranzu: Nure de salle beero presi

Sat a paritas lienation cola coner, colous, arlo. It

1o l00 largpst armloulos devorad to costage of all deado too

collators.

DO COLLE La SAILLENerLY LIenasted in llui soLa sni

anoributo, boals intemaisonally. To coumirlos vula see

an eritroy value on the sore, he. Unto for colas ubica sto

mully con tase to minodee.

euros line to coosiny lla tor tas nagoslation immaires.

Bu fanci

wol.

---

## Page 6

F0g3 2

193-1554

2 5-1458 2986

TO DIETE CARESS NIGS MONICO LE PROS AROCA ALONE

DISCIARO,

66: 628081

Field A8S23

B11T148

2900.20181

3828

3343389 X38

032230089

4. 1

---

## Page 7

14-0000

A. 72684

Gulos, inablastas 08s1es 5- 726684

Antal, Outore Diessoa

Attas

de 123

=:"

NAO 358-63

20 Phy 1963

72684

---

## Page 8

S .R0T

41436 352-65

30 Fy 1DES

SIJECZO

Esuara to Iass, 1013 Istoriatlooal Caryartion, rublLo

Rolabrons syacirtsoro

of tho loshiagion LolA Orfico Grrengoß

Lunchoon 23 AgE1l 15$ L8 LiesI Houso for V5. Krard N. t0s0

of BOSS IntorrarSeTal COrTOrailon, FUbIlE rElatIONs apCCilLorOs

o oarlootsal castorant Misa Julle Col3in1, eor

os us Mratia

JEO pRU PODG ENS LO 115EUO 1508" ASTiOnsS

@NNlOWGIO +050 088S 0-0

3O LOSO 13 BEY COROYON DOIO OS LOSO 8UX ELES D0 O FUOLX

00EI0 000N0RN8 Sor Tho Of8Ie0 o8 Lcresde Coojorallos

S0N0TOSI 1O 00IS MUERONAS CONA ARALONIEEE CEERARTO.

"SO SODOST" SES BADOSRO AUEUTO UNY 1E EABONEAIANAS AArSONAO

OapAelally soro0, dUroi0. No DuôS CRaEEs VU d IES

1BNONCS REN ORELEDO.

---

## Page 9

cd-idonor

{92684

15 Niy 2968

ORATDUEA FORI The Tecort

"Toii Cado 31995),

CASE

odvlnad that ha and racedvad

regunat Iror

of tE Divlaton, tho tn taun

ind psesduad roganut fron fon Parrott el the inite

henes, and fomarly of CIA, regnertirs that

os tith a aousce afl

Appersatly Mosih, Eturengh one 0e L

Teontectig

hnd apyronchel Ariutt, porldin Apmey atl for Hoerg"8

enuertel that a ense de auniened

to the anttas, und he vould mntals a separto ta

aoro case muber uas passed to

ISF)

Smfarte -

---

## Page 10

GATiDENTIAL

F.72684

Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO

: Chief, Contact Division

DATE:

4 Jamary 1960

FROM

: Chief, Hashlagton OffIce

144625972681

SUBBET: Julia Cellini'- Contact with Fumanian Finance Miniate:

A-72:084

1.

In' late November 1959, Julla Cellial, Assistant to

Edverd K. Mogs, Publie Relations, attended a dincer party where

she was introduced to the Deputy Finance Minister of Rumania®

This Individual was In Washington for consultationa with the

Internstional Bark, ICA, State, etc. He asked her what he

should see in Washington, and ahe recoumended the usual places,

plus Charlottesville.

5.20359

2.

The following week she vas invited to a farevel

dimer for the Rumanian Cultural Attache, whom she had previously

net.

The Deputy Finance. Minister came up, remembered ber name

and said that he had seen everything she had recormended, Including

& weekend at Charlottesville.

He had taken along his superior,

the Finance Minister, and at the party, introduced him to Misa

Cellini®

The conversation was in French, although the Minister

did underatand English.

3.

The Minister asked her what else to see during thelr

remairing week, and she reconended the Monastery, Mt. Vernon,

etc.

Ee thereupon asked her to ascompany them to

lunch, and she

explained that she could not, that she worked.

on. Saturday.

called her once more before leating Wastington.

This memorandum 18 written for the record of the fact

that both the Minister and Deputy Minister of Fleance bad ebown

considerable irterest in Miss Cellini, is the event that 1t sight

be of any une at some future date.

CONFIDENTIAL

balischatania far.

1 Вано тат то талля! мій

---

## Page 11

THE FONI

CONFIDENTIAL

512684

Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNNENT

TO

& Chief,

Atto:

contact

Division

ros: Chief, woohington Office

DATE. 11 September 1959

Fil, Ludex

BUNJECT: Vacancy for Secretary in imbassy of Guinea

1A-72684

Edward k. Most potified this ofice today that the

Ambassador Trom Guinea 18 In the process of setting up hie

Imbassy In weshington, having returned to the U.S. Last week.

He 1a 100king for a chancery, an embassy, and a residence, as

well as his basic staff.

He requires a female secretary, whon he states must

be attractive, with shorthand abilities in French and Ingllsh.

She must not be a French citizen or have had employment by the

French Government.

Her salary vould be In the vicinity of $400

a month, tax free. A white woman is preferable.

3.

Mose said that the Ambassador bas had difficulty fa

locating such a person and has asked loss to help, so that anyone

we wished could properly be introduced through this means. Noss

pointed out that, since the girl would be the first employee of

a small staff, she vould attain a very important position.

He

felt that this might be significant In that Frime Minister, Toure

10 politically "on the fence".

Toure binself will be In Washington

on a State visit on 25 October 1959.

A Please Inform this office of any reaction to this

25 Sept

advises this Thry

they are checker

_Cout on

(ini anaries - hage we can

10F16bo

They. wort

on Sure gestion

adviced Wait

SO EDENTIAL

wide notice eaten.

---

## Page 12

726-54

SEGRET

Chias, Mastington 038100

Chief, Contact DIrIoses (Wk/1)

19 Decenter 1958

102.5-72684

since she algit so of oprationul we.

Her suas sha brought to

Pp's attention by 00-4-3,117,561 (M1SH-11755), Movided by you

Any dats tha, you on provide on subject's persomal1ty

chatton, trults, politieal vier, ete, vuld be helpini to !

for unking such an ascesent.

IRDIE BOUCH IN

SEG3ET

---

## Page 13

11-0000

Andy ite

N/72654

FROM:

• FOR:

EDWARDK. MOSS, Inc.

1025 Connecticut Avenue, N. W.

Washington 6, D.

C.

THE EMBASSY

OF THE REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN

Edwar

HOLD FOR RELEASE:

AFTER 5:00 P.M.,

THURSDAY, NOV. 27,

27, 1958

STATEMENT OF THE AMBASSADOR

OF THE REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN

Dr. Ibrahim Ania, Ambassador of tie Republic of The Sudan, today

reaffirmed his country'a friendship for the United States in a atatement issued on

the eve of his departure for Khartoum, scheduled originally for early this month

but delayed until tomorrow because of the formation of a new government in The

Sudan earlier this month.

Di. Anta' statement followe:

"I would like to thank the Amorican public and especially the American

press fer the thoughtful corsideration with which they received and appraised the

news of the recent developments in my country.

Thanks to your refusal to jump to

hasty conclusione and make comparisone with events in other countries which would

not apply to The Sudan, the relationg between our countries have not been trained

as they might have been through misunderstanding and we remain today good friends.

"The Government of my country was changed because partisan strife

between political parties threatened to bring about a demoralization of our people

and a loss of confidence in our ability as a nation to preserve the principles of free

dom and independence to which our people are determined to adhere.

"A government of stability, including both military and civil leadera

acting with the approval of the spiritual leaders of our country, has assumed respon

sibility to the people to resolve our internal problems and to maintain cordial sela-

tions with all other countries as befitting a free and independent, democratic Repub

lic.

It has assumed the responsibility in a peaceful and orderly manner without im-

pairing the rights of dissident elements or freedom of movement of any of our citisens

or visitors to our country. It has assured complete freedom of the press.

It has

pledged itself to be bound by and give full effect to the agreements into which the

Republic of The Sudan has entered since our independence nearly three years ago.

(MORE)

loan, vo.

---

## Page 14

"In doing this my country has not been moved by external pressures

or by any feeling of unfriendliness towards other countries. On the contrary, our

Prime Minister, El Ferik Ibrahim Pasha Abboud, and his Government will work

to improve these relations on the basia of mutual respect, friendship and mutual.

interest.

"Paranount among the problems of rolations with olser countries

to which our Government will addres itscif will be to give expression to the con

viction of every Sudanese that it la of utmost importanco to bring about a fair

diviaion of the waters of the Nile which flow from our country into Egypt and which

are of great importance to the economic development of both nations.

"Our new Government has now been recognized by virtually evory

other country, including your own.

As iny nation'a reprodentative in the United

States since our independence I have seen the atcady growth of close, relationa

and greater understanding between our countries.

I am made confident by the re-

cent evente in my country and the sympathetic response to them by your country.

that theao cordial relations will endure and, indeed, can now be made even more

strong.

"It ls my pleasure that my diplomatic career begar and ended with

my service as Ambassador to the United States.

It is a happy coincidence that

my last day in the United States is Thankagiving Day,

For me it is a day on which

I give thanks for all the wonderful friends I have made here, It is a day on which

I congratulate all Americans for the friendahip they have extended to me and to my

Although I am returning to private life, I want them all to know I shall

never cease my efforta to bring about increamingly close selations between our

two nations. "

A copy of this material is lied with the Department of Justice where the se-

quired statement under the foreign Agents Registration Act is avalable for

public inspection.

Registration does not indicate approval'or disapproval of

this material by the United States Government.

---

## Page 15

14-00000

72684

Chiat, Contace Ivieton

Atta:

Chier, Molinatos arrico

19 morsaber 1950

sub ject an abor

A-92684

2. Inan la contalm that the lamos sorrred to la our

medua of 22 Coptenber 1958 In W1211an Lnnon. Noos hourd

about hin through the Bulanese Ambensador uno had commuted that

Ban'a vin voro bad for interational relations, All tit

Mose knovs do 8hat Larson 1o a UB Sopro, tho 11vus 10

Philadelphte, In and nothing further la add to the Lutomotion

So Pleno elon thra cose fer tha vanington Onflea.

CONFIDENTIAN

---

## Page 16

726.84

05 NOV 1958

Cal, lantendon 0183009

Chleh, Contact Diviatos, (alon)

Hey 0200 20346

1/A, m/P, 18 laterated lo en latividual mood Joes

lennon, she say be the era perion do describol la ruferenel..

POt 641448 403 722204 00 20008 Less

Dlstributton:

i - Altes Chre

• Indon

1 - Care 20946

- ...

---

## Page 17

14-00000

72684

21 OCT 1358

AX77:

cadet, contact De lots d!

Wilton lesoon - Valtal Diates Dalemte to All Astions Palen"

"Tone

2o A pabllo ralatlens mmn concerned Itarily vith foreign

norusta myorto thit after to dout el Malam, inngoub ta

de bed to boone president or tha vi Acacalf, thrahlm Ama

ho Fulanus Intendor to the Uni uni Statos, corenol on dea

Aute

Palt tiet inton had som very pend lar 1lors, Iron bel

aratal that iningous coil not possials paro execrod to vin the

states aro joulah amol ant could be orgared to tinbeau's

IT ON MEN DUOTHETAL SITIN O BI ATINTO DONE MOTIO

Formal an orgalantion to confant punh buntmons for African

couar100.

ball la heera prun 5-12 Decentar 1038. Ou contert eugenstall

that 18 vien of Lemon tempolat, ha naht be an individni

to ate 11th remind to this edulence.

mal be Alreeted e

Diatribatt on:

718. & 1 - Addresse

. - Alien Chrone

1.

1259641'

Betetson: ers

---

## Page 18

77684

Chief, Corteet iviale

AStaI

Chios, Hinbingten Oste

81211cn Laura

CONFIDENTIALL

17

Bung

22 Septesher 1938

4.926841

lo At a zoeting vita Diurd K. Mons, a pablle ralation

concord solarily tits torsten acounts, on 19 Septester 1959,

ha reportod et length en lia ectivitioa Mla tro endanos palor

to, and aro tha election al the presidont of the li Arocailyo

Budanne Asboserder to the U3, Ibrahim Anlo, marat on sowa

"erachpot" riem oprenoad by a lillim luson, Lomos apparatly

lo a pable malations ma, so has tomed so orgnation to contreti

such buntnese fer Afflen ectatlos. Ante fait tnt Inuson me

tall of very poowin thracts anl had stated thit ingoib could not

havo posathly expected to vin the Kl election, atnce de the tE all

tatutial mappen ao tentat evand and vould ba aypooed to.

al Euro dorcent = 11y5g In other areaa of the srill.

e meetnl tnt la vin of Icoon°s meror vlapol

• Mans Do m Intiuinl to match ulia ruard to this contereno

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 19

1d-0d0d

72684

A115:

atel, BE/Gree

200 1425

cates, Contact Diviatos, 00

CD/00/Caso 29071

7 Banaary 1953

5-72434

5 Dorember 1950 for firther blogmphlo Interstion

1s deneribed as rather maturactiv

• Ila lapresslo

Erent antation.

tha le alys furloualy vorting on some achers or otber, in

addition to hor Grous bant project. the ma rocently tavolved

In the angsaint AifIcultles at tha Hotel 2100 la lichtngton

and la also considering meging an Itallma singe on a US tOur

source hee nevir

hy a Bi0up through the Bue du ford, which ¿roup mo reportedly

Carministo

pandela

to Per farther lagaltions, please call!

2147.

Extensies

I N, ARCRAFT

DON BOLE PE 7206 1

Board K. Noos

SECAS,

---

## Page 20

14-00000

CONFIDENTIAL

L7-2,6-84

NO-E

THE FOLLOWING OOA-S REPORTS DATED BETWELN

1 OCTOBER 1958 AND 1 JULY I964 AND CONTRI

BUTED BY THIS SOURCE MAVE BEEN TRANSFERRED

TO THE ARCHIVAL REPORTS FILE. DIRKET IN

QUIRIES TO THE REPORTE DESK OF CONTROL

BRANCH.

3134,679

3, 169, 028

3174,83k

3,325,450

F-T-A-N-T

---

## Page 21

= 1.

SECRET

INHEN PILLETS INI

PROCESS SHEET FOR O0/C COLLECTIONS

MOR FIELD USE PILY

705084481

FOREARDRO

and ira

72684

FOR HEADOUANTERS

HEROST SA

FELTIVED

CHAO 23589

SUBICY AND ARCA

11133140

L.

Budazero Artassn

dory to U3 and Ul Aspeas Recent Gorm

chango ta buds

122204

80l

14.8

HELPARRO

сола

(Sudhan)

TEPE GOE

140P 80t9

• CONTACT UNaRmE, Tilla, Or

fame as soured.

#8P080O, 014,58

BUBARCT

40'00

0.

# 72684

load International Ino.

Washington, DoC.

48 5-72684

•. #48-20UAC8 Wama Nie toys

ANTRA DISSENIMATIN CONTROL

THIS WEFORT MAS BE RILEASED TO

__1. 8. 8. 6 BELOW ONLESS RISINISTRO IN BECTION E: -

AD9PON8O 1188 D9 A8895P SPASASRANEE

BELEASID

SUENCARA NOR DAS APATUES.

FIELD REMARKE

To han da man T a an that hoo,

to the 0l

DELETE

Pant 1

01. 80

DELETE

EDITORIAL COMMENT

This LaPORT ENRONAVE TO ONCE COME FROM TOPICE OR AGRICT:

TANG ADDITIONAL ENDERATIC WINDE DA FR

THAT PICAS REPORT ON THIS CAS

FORM

7-6B

25

USE PREVIOUS

KEITION

но!

•. a CHIE

=*=.

File 74

SECRET

:

• Up, ope

BRANCH • STAFE CHINe

3

«ПОДІВ

ute to. "

---

## Page 22

14-00000

7268x

MANHION"

RAMA TRONT

CENTRAL INFELLIGENCE AGENCY

COUNTRY Budan

SUBJECT

Sudanese Ambassadors to Us and UN

Аввева Recont Govorment Chango in

Sudan

CONFIDENTIAL

REPORT NO.

DATE DISTR.

NO PAGES

REFERENCES

00-8-322/24577-66

24 Deo 64

4

2

DATE OF Octover - Hovenber 1964

INFO.

PLACE &

October - Novembor 1964

DAÏEACO

TAIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION

SOURCE!

US citizen, who han close relationa vith the two Budanese diplomto.

Ho 18 a speciallot in the publio relatione of new Alrican couniries

with the Us..

The Sudanese Ambassadors to the U3 and to the UN are both quite

happy with the recent change in government in their country.

strongly discount Cormnist Influence and stress the continuity and

stability of most personnel and

of government polioles.

which provoked the change was corruption

centering around the

The baalo usderlying lucia" of the Deputy Defense Minteter und tha

Mintoter of Forefan Affa1ms.

President Abboud himself was on several

"Ied up" with the situation that he resorted to the

"Nehru tacties" of absenting himself and threatening resignation. He

did not dare fire the tw Miniaters.

Eventually othere became 8o

unhappy with the situation that they took 1t out of Abboud's 'handa.

3.

The Communistshave badly overplayed their hand, with a pover play tar

beyond their real atrength.

The fallure of their effort to provoke a

coup d'etat by announcing without foundation an army nove to sssune

pover, merely displayed their weakness and thus foreclosed for some time

at least any posalbility of their exerting great influence.

It 10 hard to judge which of the two polltionl parties will de vietorious

In the forthconing alections but the odds appear to favor the uMMA.

any case,-with either party in pover, and with the interin government at

present, every sign polate to contiaulty of polley and of stability.

tions to the two diplomats mentioned are in thia category.

16 found in the continuing norml procedure with routine diplomitle tr

fera.

The new Foreign Minioter 16 at leaat as pro US as bia recently

ousted predecessor.

He probably leans much nore to the US.

end

CONTIDINTIAL

STATE

ANDS A SO ECS 1099012

356001808

Ange S4 +98.

97 м В.

S= D0

KERORG

FEES

AlC

8xst388d tram 815298118

C3ORG-78:RZ BRA

U-no

PE REPOIR:

• i lyou

---

## Page 23

SECRET

INHENFILLEDINI

FOR

72604

SierriaTA

PROCESS SHEET

S1919-4

DO &

*: 12318

FOR

OO/C COLLECTIONS DOD ORIE

,3 ° 119""

icuaolebrrRebh6111 111066667269440

BUDICT ANO ARLA

RELEASID

Mouhunt Boleny sookine Ortoniation os Milion so lest

,83105, 20 21.31/62

1 39

Ouinea Ivory Const

40, 4:"

phànt

ARLA

9990078

SUONET

Боле as source.

oTi

# SOURCE

Rutarel K. Hous

i Rimare e loa tromation!, 121. 241

N11684 Pote

Washington, D.C.

5-78-6366:1

1. GUa-SOURCE (Nuno, Tülo, Orpuniantos, Aidrona)

Anno Michaols

Apot to Bovard f. Hosa

deo 5-72-1084

72684

CALCE IMIS MICTION 1 RÁLLASAILL

CATHA DISSAMINATION CONTHOL

THIS REPORT MAY BI 8I10ASIO

12, 3. DELOW DELOW VALLAS IN IN SEGTION Sp.

→020

1 APPRONIO LEI DE AGREST COMDOSFANTE

E APPACITO CATENA PROIETE

MAY

1009

07 & 0.

ENTIBI

. 4

в 1воs

FIELD ACMARNS

EDITORIAL DOMILAT

Mons mestloned that a medber of

the Chan. Balassy told hin that

thero 10 a nou and unritten code

anng the lorar Fench colony

regresentation in isahington.

Is that the ambassadors of Borblod orsented courtries

wear thei native druns ot officacl

Ametsona, mille those favorable

to tho leat veer matern atiro.

90: 0153581068773

For sinen aff

141699271

100 t481042

EU CIMEN AGIACHES

220

713

CASE

no entr

PIRLO COFICE CAN STATUA

TNI8 #EPORT RESPONSIVE SO RIQUIRIMENTO FUORI POIFICA DE AGAMOTI.

EXPICY ADDITIONAL DEORMAHON WITH (DAYT

FA VINAL DEPORT ON TOS CASA

1100

25

PA INFOGI»

H9881ON

SECRET

2

---

## Page 24

7268U

INFORMATION HERORI

INFORM ION REPORT

CENTRAL INILLUIGENCE AGENCY

This muriel contine bufarmation offany she Nationol Corpora

COUNTRY OUlnoa/ Ivory Coast

SUDJECT

Not house fate taking crientattoos

Outnea to Woot

RE'ORT NO.

DATE DISTR.

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

00- D -3,249, 490

3 July 1962

1

DATE OF I4 May 62

INFO.

PLACE &

RATE ASQ. I4 MAe GO

TMIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION

SOURCE, US altizen, publle relations apocialiot.

In recent wooke hid firm had been conducting nocotiatione with the

Ambassador of Ouines recarding posalb1l1tien of representing that

country 1n tho US.

do In recent weeke we have been necotlating with the Quinean Ambessador to

the US, Da Seydou Conte, regarding the posalblistles of doing some vork

for hla government in the US.

During one of there meetings at the Ouinean Entesay about 14. May 62,

Ambassarlor Conte received a telephone call from Houpbout Bolery, Pres

ident of the Ivory County In lew York City,

Te conversation was cod.

ducted in French and mun obviously a contimation of previous tall

on the sane subject.. The tio min were discussing ways, means, and desti

ability of persunding President Toure to reduce further his connections

with the lovlet lloc and to align his country with the west.

3o. There má no attempt on the part of Ambasador Conte to conceal the

tenor of the conversation from my Basociate in his office.

castly have taken the call in another room or excused himself tempi

arily. It 1e probable that he wished to be overheard.

directly uith the ambausador during a visit to the uS.

doubtedly le that Conte has the ear and confidence of Toure and 1e the

5=

by hia appolatment to lashington.

Conte ha' indiented to us that Ouines is not too pleased with the type

and quality of ald from tbe Soviet Alce and hàs come to realize that the

m'st stable and significant econonie developnent from abroad since

independence has teen the US aluninum Installation.

Conte himself

Impresses un as being an African firet but very pro-Us and lest.

COFF-I-DEIII

AI#

FB:

NAVY

INFORMATION REBORT

POPORT

Maas are

29 AUG .0T2

Group 1

Ercluded fron autoratic

downgrading & declassification.

AEC

INFORMATION REPORT

a to de conscion to assortent

o8't, en Arts

***

---

## Page 25

SECRET

ON PIELO USE LILLE

1฿ $0D 8

Umar

72684

FOR HEADUUARTERS USE ONLY

BACEIVED

PROCESS SHEET

00#

FOR

OO/C COLLECTIONS

00.0.

09M0»

OFfICE

trashure - "madle Campaten for "Altanon for Progreso" and

brochure - Radlo troadenoting Carnign - Iatin Anten

a Crave amo, To Prenacion, Aaron → Nomber.. A - 72684

American Produetsond, De.

Untaington, D. C.

5-72684

N, SOUNce INema, Tillo, Oranninnion, Addresear 'Y Murabery

20 20

TUFE 00-8

BUSJECT

17 a 10 50

BALAABIT

4od8

00/09/12/0010

05/282

DEMINATED

ДР#А

8, DUDSOURCI (Vamo, Tillo, Oranolantion, Addrom

#.

EXTRA DIBSEMIMATION CONTROL

MAT

TMID MAPONT MAT DR AALLABIO TO

BBAR ASH

1, В, 8. 18

MELON UNLESS RESTRICTED IN BACTION "E=2

BESIABED

1. 109971D 61NP OF AGENCY COMOULYANTE

B. 8990099 PRAHHAL PRONEY!

STRATID ABERCIED CON NIE ATUDIO

PIELD REMARAS

Pense forward tot

TIN/PA/PrOP

Ra 00 1908

Attn: Enzrloon

These are the only contes Nons says that thir

mat be returned. vi

Noes 10 wt1l1 Interested In talbing to

approprinto CIA representative shother the

desision 1e pro or con.

Lomn - Itust be seturned I Ime 1962

•FELO OFFICE CASE STAFUS

THIS REPORT RESPONSIVE TO HNOUTREMENTS INSA OFFICE OF AGENCHT.

EXPECT ADDITIONAL INFORMATION WITHIN DAY#

INS FINAL REPORT ON THIS CASE

C/B

YES

Р. О. СМЕР

EDITOR

РОМА

25

OBSOLEST PREVIOUS

SECRET

CHICH THIS SUCTICO IF HELEAIAOLE

#,

DELETE

DELETE

09 8, 0.

# D.

# 8

EDITORIAL CONMENT

Fud DTFW

Or

MUT DIABI

DRUGS KER

TOO ABNERAL

0708

DIG TOPPED ISOLATED

DY OrCH A0001 180

STAND, MARLBAR AMARCE

418

Dow

FItt

ChiE

I-72

VILIS

BAANCH. STAIT CHIEF

2

120-38)

---

## Page 26

PROCESS SHEET

FOR

OO/C COLLECTIONS

8. BUMACT 'AND ARIA

so s

08.801789

FIELD

SECRET

(WHEN FILLED IN)

FOR FIELD USE ONLY

РОПИАНОГО

0F-73684

FOR MEADQUARIINS USE ONLY

H9PDП9

HUNHER

CABE

DECEIVIO

per loo

To FiT

asa9 80 ro

180264360310213199520546-31 25450

Nano Coco 1993 - Amriown Productions, Ine.

TYPE 00-8

10/000300|00

05/72

BEMINATED

12 9.93

BUbJECT

47/00/09 504

10303/04

• 'CONTACT UVario, Tille, Orderiontion, Adironaar yo Number

Bama da source

N. BOUNCE (Mamo, Tilla, Organisarion, Addrose on "Y' Nuebon

Kisard Moes

4172684

Amerteen Productions, Ino.

Washington, D.C.

elic 5 72684

1. SUBSONACA (Namo, Tillo, Didnuiantion, Addross)

EXTAA DISSHIINATION CONTROL

1, В, В. 16

BELOW VALESS MESTRICTEO IN SECTION "N"t

D. APPROVIG LIFT OF AGENCY CONSULTANIE

HOT

BOB-P9IA COINCIES FOS DIA STUDIES

138e6

FIELD REMARAS

Preme close thin ense for thr

ambangton Field 0ffice

CHECK THIS SECTION IF PELIASAOLE

DELETE

PART 2

DELETE

ENTIRE

09 #.

MP totte

PIPE DATA SUPPLET REGULARLY

COMBINED WITH

EDITORIAL COMMENT

Fue Di TFU

TLEX 224

CASE.

HMN

I-RET

FILES

418

PILD- OFFICE

CASE BYATUS

EXPECI ADDITIONAS INFORMATION WITHIN DAYSI

HI! FINAL REPONS ON THIS CASE

c/a

Yes.

FOURS

40

25

ORNLITTIONYIOUS

NO

EDITOR

SECRET

2

12048)

---

## Page 27

1d-0d0d

SECRET

(WHEN FILLED IN)

OR FIELD USE ONLY

1a.

C PORWARDRO D.

PROCESS SHEET

FOR

0O/C COLLEGASONS

BAr

1002) 10/10

1910/12

B

CHAS 2364929909

• SUBJECT AND ABA

Inaction of strush to Jocretary later'a Chargo, Cana

Bane a source

Horand Chaso & B. J. Boon Intarnational, Ins.

1025 Connect lett Avemo, Il. W.

Washtagton, D. O

5

12268% al

ENTRA DISSEMINATION CONTROL

MAY BE RELIASKO UN NEED TO KHOW TO:

AFPADULD LIST DO AGRULE CONSULTANTE

APPROVED RITENASL PRONCTS

HDN 919 AGENCIES +1B 818 STUD12S

FIELD REMARKS

о. к.

AB I8

DELETE

PART 1

О₽ #. В.

DITORIAL COMMEN

FIELO OFFICE CASE STATUS'

"THIS HEPONY RESPONSIVE TO REQUIREMENIS FROM TONICE OR AGUNGY

EXPECT ADDITIONAL INPORMATION WITHIN (DAYSI

IN FINAS REPORT ON THIS CASE

YEs!

FORM

4-58

25

USE

PREVIOUS

EDITION

SECRET

72÷74.

100/20/11

RELEASED

ПІДЕ ОС-К

NOT DIS

BAMIRATED

DELETE

ENTIRE

8. 8

NOT DIOSEBINATRO

HEEP WAHY!

PYTE MOSTA SUPPLIED AROUSANLY

225>

2

12041)

---

## Page 28

72684

IN ORMATION REPORT

CONFORMATION REFORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

C-0-N-P-I-D-R-N-I-I-A-E

COUNTRY

SUBJECT

Resetion of Narunh to Secretary

Herter's Charge

REPORT NO

DATE DISTR

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

00-8-3,163, 133

14 October 1760

DATE OF

INFO.

PLACE 8

DATE ACQ.

SOURCE:

Weak of 1 00€ 60

Weak of 1 Oct 60

IMIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION

Us ostizen, publié relations apectallot.

Source'a fira specialises In publielty for foreign governments and Industrles.

2.

During the sessions at the United Nations Lveek of 1 Oct 60J I was 1n

freguent touch with Kanla Asball Obedenh, the Flnance Minister of Cana,

to secretary Herter's remk lumping Horumah with the Commists.

(bedemah told me that Nkrumah has no personal regard whatsoever for

Lumbe of the Congo, but regards him nrely as an Individual toused up by

political tides - basically "an empty head", Aorever, Marmah's badly

phrased remrks vere intended to convey his rual views which are, according

3.

5.

the anti-lummbs factiona, Just becue it does not Itke bin nor his actloms,

thereby furtbering a split around the duly lastalled Prim Minister.

Micrumb's personal reaction to Secretary Herter's rumrk was one of deep Int

т2d, anger.

In effret, he now feels that "11 the Ul does not understand what

I an trying to do, to ha'l with 1t"! During the past year lcrumab vas coming

out of his sulk at the Us over bia bad press on arreste, ote in Chana, but thi

Incident has set him back again and has played into the hands of the pro

Sovlet faction In his country.

forts vere mde to have Kkrunh appear on the Dave Cartoway televinion mhow

r1th prepared questions approved by him, to clarity his vies on tbe positio

of the neutrala. It was also arranged for him to be In one of the future

debates planned by 1/, In which be could expound on tue future role of non-

Atelean states In Airles. This vould be f1lnod 1n Acera, or anyubere be

rinhod, with an upponent agreeable to him. Obedenh urged both protpecte t

rumah and vas rerused flatly, through general annoyance and personal

frustration.

An a sidelight to thie natter, I aleo talked to the prospective foretga

nister of Sierra Leone (upon attaining Independence) and to several Indian

1 expressed abock at the apparent US ulanderstanding of what the Afflea

feel about the Importance of strong central govermenta li the new statee.

STATE

ENORMATION REPORT AN ORMATON RESORT

WOFONN

---

## Page 29

INFORMA

REPORI

TINFOR

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

LATION REPORT

4 26.14.

COUNTRY

• SUBJECT

Cbano

Finance Molster Dellovce Inci 01

Uss5 Million V8 Loon Wi11 Jum Nenzanh

to USAR

REPORT NO

DATE DISTR

NO. PAGES

PEFERENCES

CORRECTION:

00-B-3,754,000

26 septenler Lio

DATE OF

INFO

23 Aug 60

PLACE &

PAiF ACO 23 ANE 62

SOURCE,

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION

Va citison, putalle rolationo apeciallat

Surco'a aLr apocluleon la pullicity for Soreton coveramentis and

Con tho atrta Ileo ol pararapi ase this mporta ronda US$iB millon

but ahould read uste niallon. Please rala the comechien on your

= end =

168 F5p

STATE

HINFORMATION REPORT

NOTENT

LIMALE

MITAN SAPIERNOR EN EN HIERATING CHET TE E

INFORMATION REPORT

---

## Page 30

1d-0d0d

PROCESS SHEET

FOR

100/C COLLECTIONS

До г

EVENICT AND

SECRET

WHEN FILLED IN)

FOL TIELO USE ONL?

14K08 K

Ple latele olde

Finanes Miloter Balleros Inch of UB$5 MIllen 08

Loen WIll Porn Narah to UBER

(abne)

FOR HEAVUANTS

PALT

011 8081223144484

P8(60

TIP: 00 E

+ 80.

Bene no source

FarT I Saw Adders or

102g Omnistlert Aveno, I. W.

Washingten, D. C.

JUB SOUNCE (Aamo, Tilla, iMpantasion, detrea

11ve - 132.50/

72604

EXTRA DISGEMIMATSON CONTROL

MAY BE MELBASCO ON NEID TO KNOW TO!

APPROVED UNI OL AGENCY CONSULIAN®

FIELD REMARKS

Mnllo the baste farto of this

ropert are tom to vi offletals,

the garmenal ves, tulk v1th

DEL EYE

PART &

EDITORIAL COMMEN

No I val

1682,67&

• 0.

HOT DEMAN!

•LALAGY PUOPICIENTEE

ве очне догоськя.

01W30/m106862699098.

COWED BITE

OCIA

FIELD

CAMA STATUS

THIS REPORT RESFOMSTVE TO REQUIRIMIRTTVION TOFFICE DR AGINETT

EXPECT ADDITIONAL INFORMATION WITH M IDATAL.

WE PINAL REPORT ON THIS CASE

YEs

NO L

FORM

4-59

25

SECRET

2

120.611

---

## Page 31

14-00000

PROCESS SHEET

FOR

00/C COLLECTENS

BUBOSTO

-B8a160

091100e

09.e

P. BUNJECT AND ATLA

SECRET

WHEN FILLED IND

FOR WIELD USE ONLY

572694°

PUH MEADQUAHTIM

LISE ONLY

fo's

GRETIVED

DORICE

2..:

Hobr22915309191

1181021 95141237

20 08/20

Bectics, Va Socrotartal

YUE DO-K

10302

HOT DIE

SEMINATEO

BUGHHB88. 088081

Bane en searco

SOURCE (Man la Unposedation doldreas co

Pable Relations

- A 726•84

1025 Dessectleut Avenus, 1.W.

BUE-SOURCE

EATRA DASEMINATION COMYROL

WAY DE HELEASEO ON MED TO KNOW TOA

APONOYIO ANTITAN REDACTS

0104-04:04657545 N09 38 BFB068A

FIELD REMAMS

0 8.

DHL8T4

PARY &

D₽ # B.

EDITORIAL COMMENT

DeLETE

KATORE

# D.

To tal

166

#ALO OFFIÇA CASE

HIS WHEN REMONSTRE TO HOUR MEANS SAM CONTEN OR LORNEY.

EXPERT ARSITION INPORMATION WITHIN LATEL.

IT PINAL EAST CR THIS CASE

ves

P. O CHIEH

#-#$

25

Not PArt

PREVIOUS

#DATO

SECRET

2 120611

50: 00.4.

---

## Page 32

14-00000

PROCESS SHEET

FOR

00/C COLLECTIONS

До в

JUDICE AND AREA

SECRET

(WHEN FILLEO IN)

FOR FIELD USE ONLY

ID.

1:796714

ariyales

SHAM42266929299 11112201010/1e

A:620

omante er hirance lunloter Donst en Boriay and Calestt

ood Blote/ Inmary Bloctious in Karals

(20010)

10279

SEMIDATED

Saan sa source

Stuard I. Mona

Rolic Solatious

1025 Connecticut Avenio, H.H.

02

+72684

DIDOREIEATES

HATHA DISSIHIRATION CONTROL

WÀY DE MELRASEO ON NEED TO ANCH 10,

FIELD REMARKE

0. R.

AB 18

DELETE

PA0T 8

от 8.

EDITORIAL COMMENT

DELETE

ATTINE

=».

DIM

Z7EA

THIS REPORT HASIONS VE TO DOURE CAN ON ONCE OR AGGRETT

TIPICT AGITIONAL INFORMATION WITHIPS (DAYS)

' PINAL REPORT ON TWIS CASE

C/s

Yes

F. O CHIES

4.30

25

WHIM

EDITOR

SECRET

Ap-

112018)

---

## Page 33

14-00000

SECRET

WHEN FILLED INI

OA FIFIN USE ONLY

FORMANDTO

PROCESS SHEET

FOR

0O/C COLLECTIONS

BUDGESTIO

07.0

P1810

00

; C

BUDARCT AND AREA

ndication of Strained Balations Detreen Covermonta e

hans and Outnes/Conversation viin Bamla A Obedemah

Ghapalan Flaance kindster

(oudnea/Gbaan/Ilberta)

Bane as seco

Ischraad K. Mona

Public Relatioas

Do Coate Avala, T.V. A 72684

Washington, D.C.

APPROVED

NO* 1B8

ENTHA DISBEMINATION CONTROL

MAY DE RELEASIO ON NERO TO KNOW tO.

PON BIS ATUDIES

Tall, Bougarer Direso

€ н.

AB 19

0F #

EDITORIAL COMMENT

PIELD OfFICE CASE STATUS

THIS MUNGET ESPONSIVE TO HIOUSERMENTS PROM (STICE ON AGENCT).

TIPICT ADOITIONAL INPORMATION WITHIN TRAVES

MMY PENAL REPORT ON THIS CASA

vas

(C/8

FORA

4-9$

25

USE DRIOUS

NO

SECRET

F-72684

USE ON

102393442797

1o/00 assa

10239

#aMINATED

TIFE D0 &

GAGANICI

BuBIecT

67148 48 80

DELETE

ENTIRE

=8.

MO! DISHEMINATEE

190 BENERAL

FIRE DATE DUPPET O HEEVESACT

COMONTO IT

044

Pig: 2. Natio PF

2 120.411

---

## Page 34

PROCESS SHEET

FOR

00/C COLLECTIONS,

*TED

+0-8

198048

SECRET

IWHEY FILLED IND

ON FIELD USE ONLY

869291

F. 72684

SOM HEADOUARTERS USE UNLI

BACEIVED

P. SUBJECT AND ANES

$

EVA

amikalas najay!

2420/20/21/282

1261210898-1643 102193143128

D18#6N

29/20

Boeall of Carlos Dalo as Aananador to /Appolatant

Of lan Mnance Minloter, Fh121031200

TIPE 00-K

41

48/ 49) 49

119389

STRINATIO

BUBIECT

87:40149|50

1. BOUNCE (Namo, Tria, (gandalton, Addron on ' y Namder

Bard K. Bosa

Publia Feletione

72684

2023 Comoctleut Avenus, l. I

BUD-SOURCE Nus, This (spomastin Addram

EXTRA DIBAEHINATION CONTROL

MAY BE HELLASKO ON NEED TO RHON TOS

D. APPAOURS EDIENTAS PROMETE

HOM MAIN MOSACING 100 HIS 6TU818E

FIELD REMARKS

A$ 1В

BALATE

PART &

0F a

D.

DELETE

ENTIRE

* D.

EDITORIAL COMMENT

HOT DISFEMINATED

WELL KENN.

" DATA EUPPUED MEDULA

ORMER AGENCI

DINER/MISCELLATIONS.

00M81ARD #1TH

literal mental foul. 300

WITH TO TO OUR MEN HAM TONETON REEV

CAPECT ADDITSONAL

BFORMATICH WITHIN CRATEL

HE DINAL BIPONY DA THIS CASE

C/$

ves

.. 0 CHIE

#-Д#

25

IDENTI

SECRET

ВСЯ • БУАТЕ СНІЄЯ

-..'

2 120-411

---

## Page 35

TO:

FROM:

TOP SICRET

SECRET

E7 CONFIDENTIAL / - 22/54

Dete

•LEDARDED

INDIVIDUAL INPURMATION REPORT EVALUATION

1111201089-78 Aguary

227232 buildina

• CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

28.25÷ 59

FIELD 13.

VALUE OF THIS REPORT

FILES A FRIODITY MILD

OF CONSIDERABIA VALEN

OF VALUE

O# SLIGHT OR NO VALGE

#. MO DATA PIAMTTTING #914 STAGAT

ANLPPETANGE OF RICEIVINE SUETHEE

ACCURACY OF CONTENT

RIPOSIS ON THIS SPECIE SUSIECT

8. CONFIRMED

CE SPECIAL IMPORTANCE

Z. PHOBABLY TRUE

& D7 CONBIDERADLE LAPORTASCE

POSSIBLY TRUE

DOUBTFUL

A OF SLIENT IMPOSTANCE

PRODAOLY PALSE

INTEREST: NO FURTHER

CISSIMINATION PERINEO UY

CANNOT BE PUDGED

RAVO FOR JOUR AÉALUATION AS SECTION II 281019)

( 11) COLLECTOR'S QUESTIONS TO EVALUATOR

SNON9E195S

D 2NOY 1955

(IDI) EVALUATOR'S COMMENTS (Use addit ano" urets As AGessary)

This affioo la no other info, tat' on tending to support er confira the runar

that Romalo 1ilbo renored in i ly 1960 as ambassador to the US.

This re

port li oconidered possibly true Innumoh an reporte of thia nature are re-

ceived from tine to time.

Rolo 1s not sonaidered a personally popular"

figure with the Phillypine government or people, or partioularly with the

Caroin adolntration although his personal role in conrincing Carole to

expest much higher econonto ald in ocnnection dth kha president's vialt can-

not be given too much woight.

It la sonaidered that Carola ma given adoquato.

Information about ald ponsibilition and that Inflatod arrootations were Garola'a

own trotios to pressure the Us. Romulo's posaible replacement by Romaldes

oannot be oraluated other than that the latter ls in favor with Caroia.

Appolut

nt of Cunderno as Seoretary of "Isnoo soons doubtful no he la over retirent

of a loss colandly PI attitude.

(IN) EVALUATOR'S FOLLOW-UP QUESTIONS OR GUIDANCE TO COLLECTOR ON SUAECT OF THIS REPORT (Soir: laless

jamal repairernal is la folisto, collecsion of injermaica in reply so gressan on the eisan sires will be undersaken esig as

FORMAL AEOUTHEHENT ES

BETTO FORWARDIO

PORTAL BITANIH! 18

SIGHATIE

564850018

ACCI

BITE

29 0o€ 89

tati

---

## Page 36

7'26:34

INFORMANON REPOR

INFORMATION REPORT

CENTRAL INTELUGENCE AGENCY

This morenol conting nformation affaring

B-BC-BIT

COUNTRY Ghazia

SUBJECT

Hance Minister Belleves lach ei

03$5 11210 US Loon WIll Turn Morest

to UBBA

REPORTNO. : 00-8-3,254,656

DATE CISTR.

20. Agret 1350

NO. PAGES 2

REFERENCES

DATE OF

INFO

13 Ang 60

PLACE &

DATE ACO.23 ARE 60

SOURCE:

THIS IS UNEVAL'EATED INFORMATION

us eltizen, phlle relations spectallat.

Bource's fla poelalizes in publicity for torolga govermente und

LadastIles.

I. Konls Arball Godemar, the Flames Janister of Ghans, spart the woek of

TAng tO la lachington, primmly seerlag loans for the valta River projoet,

which has now been acaled cow to a practienl size. Discusiona vith us

offielals and bankera led to agreemors to advance funda for the next five

jears, at the end of valch time the dra vill de produelad pover.

coot will be Us$168 million, of valet Couns Itaall will jart up USel8 eulton.

The World Back will adrance

Use allon et 5 3/ percent Interest, the

Devalogsent Ion Ind US+25 uillton at ja percart Interest.

2.

Chedeah wanted 03s5 allon we fron the DIF because the Job cannot be

carted out uithout 1t. Faced mil a gip of UBß19 milllon, Cedes, on hi

on uthority, offered lo add lEft, sullion to Chia's entribution by taling

Is 11ll1en pir year out of current too. This, boveves, still leaves the

meanseary U895 m111100.

Te Masce Mnioter 18 leader ef the polestera prup 1a Mina, but there

so a povertal fastion of high Chaandent, hended by Sojo Dotalo, Miniater of

Agriculture, that centimlly arms Prenident Kaza Morumb to stop denliag

with the west and to turn to the ta?. Chedenh feels strongly that 11 he does

not sot the additional Us$5 millas, he vill not be able to mintala the pro

Were position in tha battle, the grund harleg been eut eut sion under hia

oet, particularly for oomparstively to mall an anount. He realisen tha

his plea to the 13 la regularly mode by anll coutries seeking aid, but h

Impressed m as bedog sincere about the true sugency of hla wlasten for

4. la pointed out that the folts projert 16 a god bankable ens, and the loes

W11l be pald bact out of proceeds fran resultiog pover. Se said that China

has never before anted the l3 for s niekel, 10 not now loeling for a grant

but a buslansalthe losa. Eous 11 the pover matter falled for dums mexpocted

remar, the coutry would ad wald pay the dabt.

Goodenh yoluted to the

ational budgut which Increased frus 129 a11lton ten jears ago to los mtl11e

in 1960, all Dum taration. .

he Choralan Coveragent has put 1l50 u11l1on 1

development projects durtag the pertod frun eument income. It bas dann ne

perroring, has no external debt, and has sout 1100 1ll1on livested in the

Ul. The ceonary 1s sound.

2 SEP 1930

STATE

ROFORN

ITUTYED

NAVY

SINFORMATION REPORT

JAEC

AINFORMATION REPOR

Dress minatron katriad to lull-done er

Not to Do EasinUADay to Consuliania eternal profester

ware personnel on whore for dets duty lefresting odorduate who ars normally tull lume affoyans al (lA dit, Pal Stato or Delesses mules the

---

## Page 37

5.

B-EC-R-ET

DO POPH/NO DIDALMI AUROAD/LOCITED

• 2-.

00-8-3,164,656

Obedesal me profandly dinturini rhen ho talked to so on 11 and 23 Aug 60.

have known each cubes voll for a long ties, yet he bas never before "let ile

hair down" as he bas do thie inter.

He must suport to Merunah on Friday

morning, 19 Aus 60, regardar the success or mulure of lie aluaton.

Ko talked

by telephone so the residout 11 Aug 60 but did not tall hia about tho

U335 million abortage, paraly saying that there varo still a for 41tf1eal%

detallo. Muruzas replied that Chane vould not be put into the pooltion of

boneeching the Is fur the loan • he vould ruther give up the shole thing ue

tum elserbera. Fresenna ie sure that 18 be must report to the frualdast that

he has retumet withst the saditional 1815 alllion, that munt alli

Imediately have his recrutary call the Borlet Ambassador.

The Flaance Minioter told ne that there had been concidarable unhopplness 1a

Ghans when Norash danded to booone President rather than raniming Prise

Moister. It the sistent over. this rong high party members had been

alloved to biral out, the opposition sould bare explosted the schie and the

sovorment would save sallen. The confliet was costained within the cabinat.

and at the highest party lovels, but the tenseness and danger renata. (bedcunh

nald that Norman 15 sa egotist end sone povertul people do not Ilke bia

sell-glorifiestion.

Nedenad corented that "Normnh's days ore mutered" but

would not enlarge further.

Obedah la convinerd that 11 the UB$5 millon 10 not eradtted, "it vill bi

tha straw to break the conal's back".

He does not know why the Duit wis so

adament In the matter, but says that "thie 1s 8 question of saving a country

for the coot of a 3-47 bentor".

harmah; he assured na, ta leaning more and

more avy from the fest, and fellure to get the loon srom the us vill fisally.

ake the President tura to the VEER for the entire snout, The Sonleta vill

vurely agre to such an cyportinity, no that the Us poultion in Chena 1e

"hanging in the balanco" in the next ten days. Chedenh in st1ll hoperal that

he will have feverable vord, before he has to report to ileras la leers, that

the US$5 m11210n has lown grarted, but he does not thint this will mally oom

to pa88.

-BO PORI

HO DISSEN ABROAD

---

## Page 38

531-54

ILNEORMITION REPORT

CENIRAL INIELDILE AGENCY

14, 00%1

C++#74491-004781

Concealer ianes

SUBHCI

SIT TA TOY DEIRONY:

REPORI NO.

DATE DISTP

NO. PACES

KEFERENCES

00-

B.: 192..11

DATF OF

parig Art 59

PLACE C

KATE RED PAZE DE8 59

SCURFE

INGS UNTVALUATED INFDRMAION

ere sallet, and has a sun, silently portunailty la bar boan sita

Iron la adulelen 29 Brain, tie ba serial that ho had manial on

aal unsul de leatectiva, on ln rpsantod lastard an assausat do bestua

Was 89an which I turml met arterritten abut Hielturoy was the fact toat

Be to the shit sortot with van I bite tallel the hao frankly nd opauly

allo I too Irons and yoir inturtion salla 1a tha Sortet Endon ero

sis to balid the Bovint nata, tout the insala are not roady for a dres preen.

20651m5132 m110, but thet tato 10 8 Bus E3 8a 00d. Eo then Lancod 1st0

tho jen; sortet lina thet boto el sar armiamento had undo serdos binadoo,

my sun ts tha alth wich va Angrune ald not unlerstand. Fa did

ai aninto tantras, but so 11l emmaat that see vito sula be Julato sin

En than la curently enged la be latera thos la as extentive atudy el

1 Iranse. 1 abad dio so ba selated hio rentag antarial and to tall

i BINE 1I ADO FUTINN Of a Desi la the

1l3.

As min met tourenned sith ratchals'a Moon Nash the Mad", noica be

sall had dras his " dop interstandlag of tals perind of Us hlatory that

mykidog he had rend, Anus Anxloan posts, Malt loitmas, he felt, vas the

erstart, a nan the undermin bran densesy, ant a man to muld have boon

ejilly sued in the Doviet Dala,

6011191

FINFORMATON REPORTS

INFORMATION REPORT

---

## Page 39

C-0-7-7-1-D-B-I-T=I-A=Ia

a 00220039

00--8-3,183,257

I loamod vory little of Brellanovo backgrour.. In did told no that he had

boen bora and rani on a sara dutaddo of bosco voro hia sathor ocall ronideo.

No appeared try dincere in liu doup affoction for hia fathor, whon on osid

be vialted at viry opportunity. He said bia fatbor loved pootry and lind

made hin opend many bours of lla youth memorizing the vorte co tarru soriot

pogio, his sushor's theory being that one could not seally love and underitand

d1o courtry and lla poopio ulchout a koorlodge of blo country's literdura.

Enlianor tarasacd so as a min to had a sary doen love for hio coustry and

patplo saldo and apart tron any idenlogical consideration.

• and •

DO FORE

HO DIESEL ANTONI

---

## Page 40

10690

MATION FROR A MINIORMITION AERORT

CUNIRAL INILLIGALICE AGENCY

(-0-89-07-1-8-1-7-I-A-e

COUNTRY

SUBJECT

Ph181pD1008

Recall of Carloo Momilo do Arbnanadoe

REPORT NO:

DATE DISTR.

NO PAGES

00-8-3,143,138

4 Nor Sy

#AFERENCES

Erpplogesa4a2 +0 00-9-3223330

Guide Lút-FAL

DATE OF

INFO

" MACE &

"RAIL AÇO

SOURCE

Бор 59

SoP. 59

OsfIcer Of a ll publio miations fira, inich apesialises in pualletty for

foralen sovermante and todustrios.

Ins been Inforinity coneulted by tro Irlando concornod vith dovelopanto

In the Philippines, One to a UB tualonsmen of many years standing 1n

the ares sud the other in a Mlipino to vas very dione to fivoident

mgrayany nud hie aduialetrat100.

1.

I have been informad by che whom I corsider a rollable source in the

Mbasay of the milipplies that carlos Bomio will be ralieved of hia

post an Ambassador to the ts 1n early 171. Though there have been

Vitar minor amoyansas vile heve contiliated to Presidont Carlos Carole'®

«1mllection uth Momlo e 8, Manilo a recent eppourance 1a US narasio

vertisemento enteralog the lincola utomobile, Prola'a real lous si

falth to Bamilo cano aitor durata's resura to tha Follippines From bie Ul

valt 1n the Sumer of 1958 vith narrances from Manlo that considerablo

D escionle ald vould be farticians la the noat tuture [ace 00-1-3125330].

30

banes levelled sintart the curcla aninistastion.

fad another auntgimant uith none rrest ee for tomlo 1a the pallippines.

I mn told that the n Ambanador to the ta vill be Ahano & Raaldes

the president of the Philippino lational Heat.

Hennies was In tbe

Us for the World Hunt astlers thie with (Beytember 1959 /and I mt and

talked with him. I me very favorably Imprenned with him.

He rocopises

the med of the Palllopine doverment for good purise relations representation

In the 08, and han utatod thit funds for mch a mubllo mulation progra

manald be suppled by the Cortral Bank of the Philippines. He eitod the

aLance which conld be rendered by a competent 18 puble relationa firm n

alviatre the Fhillyptoe doverment in regaad to the proparation and presentation

of econonde survys to thn bevelopat lom fund in apport of Thillipine

requeeta for econcule alt.

I understand that Amalden avoided my contoct with the milippine Lebanty

witle 1n Washington.

Tha Babanry called him to inguire uty he had not viaited

the babassy! ha reusad himself becase of the preas of business mtters.

Ine real renon, I understand, for his fallure to violt the Imbassy vo bie

doats to evold amy enbarrassing situation or to elve the Ingrianion that

he vas pertering hia suture pout.

C6 19.53

INFORMATION REPORT

INFORMATION REPORT

---

## Page 41

14-00000

C0-11-5-I-D1-B-11-1-1-A-I

00-3-30143, 133

2

there ocon will bo a sus tiero Mistor la tarola's cabinet.

51p3a) Credero, Quromos of tina Cass si Brak ot the: ITLlippine,

1s named as the saocesec to boo post.

Ceror of the Central Bant, and 1o sountedly doing an encellent

Jets

•and .

COLIDEI

NO SON TO MISSA ARRONE

---

## Page 42

Co: 4-71-83-87-947-411

5. 128.54

INFORM TION REPORT

NORMATION REPORE

CENTRAL INTELONGE ACHIY

COUNI*V

Gulams/Uhma/Ilberta

Indiration of Btrasnad Relat.lons

Botys11 Omaramente of Chaos end Qutoes/

Cavervallen uith Sonia A Obodes,

Minels Fliance Minlotar

MEPORI NO.

00-1-3,162, 797

DATE DISTR

19 Ootober 1959

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES.

DATE OF

INFO

PLACE &

Hate By • Ort 59

SOURCE!

IHIS IS UNEVALUATED INFOURATION

Un elt 2a, publio rolations spectallat.

Assia sum specialso la sulletty sor sonalda governmento and

Indus 41100.

do I have been in touas vith the Corasion Eubaasy for sevaral veste in

ropid vi she state visit of freuident Baron True of Outner, which

instrurted ly its poverment to sender every servico paratalo to

Ambarades y118 Diallo os Cura to lanure the scomerl otato

valt of tour, 1oll1, 1o presentad hla credartlala ta Jusa 1959

and then returned to Quiena, ems back to the us only all on ervan

weln appo. He has been in her tut almoet coasantly stuse hi

aun to the Us, and pres all apperrances, van at too escared

• 2.

in en look at the popertles. sanatie, the Channton Babassy

Jas beiruing rather saxous in ragard to arzengmuts for Toura'a

passed non mill1 did not return. The Channian Batassy vas bocoming

patte andu, and their that mus doubly bard because of inbearador

D I Capnan'a socall to chans. (Chayman'a rocall, inelcentally, vas

suppoted to have been terperary. I understand that he ma recalled

becauso it wan discovured that ho van coriving with the polstical

Sposition .1n. Cans, De amancenut way then anda that illa

amn quad lala would be the ni Anbassador to the Us, but nim bad

m arrived during the pertud that the Abanaina Imbadgy ma trying to

Do dom 10111 to diacuas armingements for tars's vials, sa

Cumian Esbay me becuing a little armoged.

In Jare September 1959 I diocrased toss probien vith China's Inanee

malater, Komla A Condemab, tho sas In the US for lorid Bank meeting,

and his inaction vas that be did not belleve that tells had fundo to

pumbaya an embassy property, and that he vas subarrassed. do a

senlt co mIll's mamllablity and the underatandable annoyance of

to chantina Inbase a tales sator lala a ble artival 1n babington

INFORMATION RERORT

21190

modere:

certant at

NFORMATION REPORT

A. No. Da dro monored da conceitenta dator rol preparts o

MMABRUR YHa8 4448 893848

---

## Page 43

14-00000

vos lustruind to ho pollin to telli und to Tour a party on arrival,

but to utterpe lo Bive

no furtuor anutstanca and lo Lot the v1a1t

fall on den taco, so to spook.

I mo, mortanicos, atta interoote in the Tour Malt trom a pio-

toss'onal stanipoint, and could sot ballerg that arresente vero

SE DEING MADE COLINE CARED TOLL'S PARTY, LATHE DEPA

& Bento out out an itimram on Tourga valt of 19 October lor

I know that oooone hod to be maklay armants. I learned that

Ambanailor Tolll hnd cons down tom des tork for on day the vook of

12 Oetober 1959 with a jublle colntion ron of 011a Matalomon, Dut

that Tolll had not gone neur the chenains Palaney, 1 asond that

011n Mathlocon mo performing the sorricen offered by the Chancian

Entanay, I contactod friendo in O1la lthienon as vas Intoned

that bocuune of thair oxtersive aluminm profect in Cuinea thay

wore handling, no publlcity for the toure voit, for were thry arrang

Ine, for any nunto function in Washington.

Olin intaleson had supplied

s Fronch-appuking decretary to assiot Achunselor Tolll duime the

course of lopal transactions Involving, I an tola, she purchase of

a vory f1e0 bullding

In Ner York . thl would tood to discrilt

obedenub's mamption that Toll did sot nave ton's for purchase of

an enbassy in Wuchington - birt Olin Mathsoson bad dono so publio

relationa vork for Toll Tolll, I was Intormed, had raquasted

furlo for puhlie rolations fron Pronidont Tours, but bad received

no reply.

5, I tben colled several hotels in lashington to dotaraire bothor or not i

any artungerento had boon nude for reception at suich Toure would

The Myllower Hotel le handling, A Poure reception for a

Ebousand guests on 2% October 1959, I asked wbo was kaodling the

arrangements for the roception and vas rfored to a Counsellor or

the Litertan Embossy. To reason for Antansador Tolli's 1iarogard.

for the repeatod and frantic inquiries Iron the Chaoatan Babanay In

ragard to Toure 'a viilt Immodiately becano apparent.

In my opialen

this dellbe ato unub of the Chanatan Eabazay In Ladicative of very

strained relatioça between the covermentu of Cbara and Quinel.

Further, Ambasuador Halm of Chane has sot yet presented his creden

tiala, so ho 1a at131 1n Washington 1n an Mottletal capacity.

an sure that he does not intend to present bin erdomlala unt1l

aftor Tomo'" vialt. In thie vay, he succoostally evoldo bofng....;

1dent181od 15 any offlolal capacity vita touros vlast.

Aftor my brief chut with Finance Hinister Chalous it the World Bank

metings, I had dinner with bin the following week in Ber York.

Though he does not recoive the publie recounition abrand enjoyed by.

Kojo Dotaio, Ohana's Minlator of Bconoule Itlair, Cbederh 10

recognizad in Obana as Nurunabe right han van and sort Intlatiol

adviser.

Everything of najor Importance dure by Mommah ban been

discussed with Gbedenah, and has his approyal. He bas Struah's

respect to the point vhere lie to apparently quito lodependent in h1a

actions.

This was illustruted to me in our discusion of the meting

of Asilcan Leadors luat aunar 1959/ 10 Liberia.

According to

abodeous, ho had strungly advid aralmt mranh'a atterdance at

tha conteronco and lul Ilatly rafused to accompary Harrh. @bodernh

cald that the conference was a mfor set back for Maurub, bec

Mrunh'o droan of Afrien l'eleration hnd bean anecesslully punc

tured by Freaident Willian Tulunn's noderation polley ard urgings

that any final decisions be dolayed until the bot meetire in 1960

vian tha leadoro of now indepenlent Afrion atateo vould be present.

Prusident Toure of Guines - supposally jederatod with Chans - aup

ported tubman. I told Obolarh I founl tale burt to userstand and

anted bla for his porson opinion of jours. I me amoyed at bla

roply, "or Obedench, thouch i direct aud frank Indivláual, 10 not

•suno to makena derogatory stutenanto about otber leudo of stato.

•Gbederansa@ofToure.Tlemoid.rook, a deengogue and an

opportunter.

: BOCKI

NO DISCH ARLOND

LINITED

---

## Page 44

14-00000

+5++88-8052-86-o

F-13684

INFORMATION REPORTE

#INFORMATION REPORTE

¡LINTRAL HGLLLGENNCE AGENCY .

COUNTRY

S!ISIECT

Saila

Corinato of Finerie Malater Denal

o: Bonbay and Calizits Food Riote/

J001ry Eloctione In Komla

REPORT NO.

DATE DISTR.

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

00-83,1032141

* 20 Buzurtes 1999

I.

DATE OF

INFO

PLACE &

DATE ACQ

SOURCE:

BeAp 39

882 59

THIS IS LUNEVALUATED INFORMATION

Us estion, prible mlations spectallat.

source's flen egaolailse in publlifty for toralen govermante and

Industries.

I talked with Fluna Htalter Norar! Ranchhodj1 Donat on tha oresalon

1 bis vialt to the la for the borli BunE metings in sep 59 18802

ho us formerly. Chise minatas of sorboy, and la presently Jambarla

BelL'a relat band, tald me that the Indian Goversent had conclusive

front that the serent shad tlote In Bonbay anl Calcutta vare commmiat-

Pallue of food miens to decline 1a Bombay and Calcutta

when India has jut harrasted a super inod erup, he Bala, tas directly

atebutablo to amulas astiriture in the iaming area villager around

the to cities. Commist asitators have convinced the farmers that to

muard agalost way fixed abortan in thair villages nest your 1960, and

to luure higher juices for thsir crops then they do sell, that the

erups should sot be sunt to to cities for marbating.

Tis, according

to Donas, multa naturally farced food press in the elties to rule :

at a high level.

The crumnist ashtathis then incited and orguntsed

the rote 1n the cities agaluit tin high cost of food.

2.: I arkol Desal stat chance tha commist purty had of returning to pour

ln Kerala tan alaitions are bold 1n ourty 1960.

als ruply waa that the

minte did not stard a chance of ru-election, that the poople o

corale vare complataly distllusiond, and under no eirenstances would

vote for the return of a comantat govermant in Karala.

arme

A DEC '059

CAIIIIBITI

INFORMATION REPORT INFORMATION REPORT

---

## Page 45

tch

NORMATION

CENTIP- MITELLIGENLE AGENCY

72454

SEPORT

1.97

703 gor 194 p99 lennie shen 1o

SUBJECT

C-0-H-F-1-D-B-I-T-I-A-L

REPORT NO

Inlicasiou of Strained Relations Between

DATE DISTR

Coverments o' Ghans and Culnea/Conversation

vith Kosla A Obedconh, Obaralan Finance

Minister

NO. PAGES

2

REFERENCES

00-8=3,18,3,797

DATE OF

INFO.

Late Sop - Det 59

PLACE Z

DATE ACC IDEa SOP - Dçt 59

ritype

DEVALAID TOMATION

0s citizen, yublle ralations apaciallat.

Source's fura Ejectalizes 1n publieity for foreign govermanto and Indiatried.

1. I have been in touch ulth the Chanalan Embassy for soveral weeks in regari to

the arata vialt el President secoy Tourel of Guinod, which tll begin on

26 Oct 59.

In thou of the lect that Guidea has no embausy or chancory 1i

Washington, the Ghanaian Imbassy uns instructed by it& goverument to ronder

every service posalbla to Ambassador Diallo Telle of Outnas to Insure tho

successful state vialt of Toure. Telle, uno procented his crodentialo to

Jus 59 and than returned to Guinea, came back to the us only ali or saven

reaks ago.

He has been in lew forts almost constantly since hia return to

the US, and Sion all appaarantes, was not tod concerned vitt Toure's Impandiag

0181t.

20

Having done publle relations york for the Chapalan Embassy in tha past, thay

contacted my firu to anoiot than la locating appropriate real ostate in

Washington for tha imbansy ol Guinae. He selactod several good propertias and

Pelle cars down fran law, Yori to inspoct them.

He Loft without making an

leclotan, saying he voald: be back again to look at the properties. Meannile.

the Chanatan. Enbassy was bocening rathar anxious in ragard to arrangements sor

Toura's visit, and Tella van apparatly unconcerned, lesuing no Inatructions

SO Too a ltInerary thila la Hashlagton, no arranqueta for reception, diE.

Tella sinply lait, saying he tould be back. Tima parsed and Tello did not

retura. Tha Ghanaian Erbassy was bocoring quite anxious, and thair task vas

doubly bard boceuse of Arbassador CH Charman'e recall to Ghans. (Chapman'a

recall, incidentally, was supposed to lave been temporary. I understand that

he tas focalled becauso it ras dipeovered that ba was coaniving with the

polItical opposition 1n Chars) Ine announcement was than made that killen

Marmon: Quao Halu vould bo ibe nor habassador to the US, but Halm had not arrived

during the period that tha Charajan Embasay vas trying to pin dor Falle to

dIscuss arrangements 808 Tours's viiit. Tha Chaalen Endeady vas becoming a 116810

amoyed.

3.

In lata BeD 59 I diecasped this problen ith Chana's Mnance Minister, Konla A

bedomah, ibo vas in the US for Horld Bark meetings, and his reaction was that

be did not balieve that felle bad funda to purchaso

an embassyl proparty, and tbat

ba vas @barrassed. As a rebalt of Tolle'a unavailability and tha understandablo

annoyance of the Ghanalan Babassy, Ambassador Hala on bis arrival In Hashinator

vas Instructed to be polite to felle and to Ioure's party on arrival, but to

attent to save so furtbar assintance and to let tha vialt fall on sta faco, so

so speak.

C-O-F-Y-I-D-B-N-F-I-AL

REPOR

FO

AMATION PERORIA

Tenta

A mination lie to all entire CAUSE ARe

LIMITED

and, within Store and Delento in dho infallidence companonts, orhos

---

## Page 46

C-H-F-I-DER-I-I-AL

NO FORE/NO DISSEN ABROID/LIMITED

= 2=

14,2,727

#. I uns, rovertheless, still Interestod in the touro vialt fraa a profeseloul

etnnduoint, and .couid not believe that arrangosentu vore not bolne rudo to take

cars ol lure"s party.

When the Depurtment of Stute pit out an itinerary on

Toure'a vialt on 19 Oct 59, I koew thit someone bad to ba naking arrangenents.

I Inarnor that Ambasandor Tolle had come down Fron How Jokk for one duy thy took

0f 22 Oit 59 with a pulle relationa man of 011n Mathloson, but that Tolle had

not gone noar the Chunlin imbassy. I assumed that O11n Mathienon was perforwing

the corvicos ortored by the Olnuaion Embassy.

Mathieson and wo inforned that becouse of their extensive aluninum project 1n

luined, they vere extending whatever assistance and courtesy they could to Telle,

but that thoy were handling no publicity for the loure vialt, for vere they arranging

for any state fmetione in lashington. Olin Inthlouon had euphlied a french-

apoaking secsotary to assiat Arbuscador Telle during the courselof legal trunuctiona

Involvie, I a told, the purchase of a very fine building In Her York . thio

would tard to discredit Gbedemah's assumption that Tolle did not have fund for

purchno of un embausy in Washinston - but 0110 Inthleson had done no publie

rolationa vort for Tolle.

Telle, I wup Informed, hnd requested funds for jublle

rolation tron President toure, but had received no reply.

5.

I then called several hotels In Washington to determine whether of not any

arrangements had been made for receptiond at which Toure would be host.

Tho

Nayflover liotel lu handling a Ibure reception for a thousand guesto on 21 Oct 59.

I asked who was handling the arrangements for the reception and vas referred to

a Comsellor of the Liberian Embasay.

The reason for Ambassador Telle'a disregard

for the repented and trautic Inquirles from the Chanaian Embasay In regard to

Tour's visit tamedintely became apparent. a my opinion, this deliberats amb

of the Ghanaían Embassy 18 Indicative of very strained relation between the

governments of Chant and Quined. Further, Ambassador Haly of Chana has not yet

presentod his credentiala, so be l6 still in Washirigton in an unofficial capacity.

I am sure that ba does not Intend to present hit credentiala until aftex Toure's

vIalt. In this vay, he successrully avoids being 1dentiflod In any offical

capacity with Tour's violt. I do not belleve, howaver, that any open rupture 1a

Iminent between the two governents. It would do Krame Ncrumah's dream of

federation no good to have the firat African state with which he has formed a

federation blow up in his face, I belleve be will bide his time until the nert

6.

After my brief chat with Finance Minister Obedemah at the World Bank meetings, I

had dinner with him the folloving week in New York.

Though he does not receive

the public recognition abroad enjoyed by joJo Botslo, Ghana's Minister of Econonfe

fair!, Gbedemah 1s recognited In Chaun in Nkrunah's right hand nan and mos

Intluential adviser.

Everything of mfor importasce done by Nurunah be bee

discussed with (bedenah, and has his approval.

He has Naumah's respect to the

point where he 18 apparently quite Independent in his actions.

Illutrated to me in our discusaion of the meeting of African leaders last summar

1959] In Ilberta. Accoriing to Goodemah, he had strongly advised against Normah'e

attendance at the conterence and had flatly refused to accompany. Hunnh.

bedewah said that the conference vas a major set back for Nicrymab, where likruma"a

drean of African lederation had been succesarully punctured by President Willlan

Tubman' a moderation policy and ungings that any final decisions be delayed untll

the next meeting in 1960 wben the leaders of new independent African states would :

President Toure of Quinea i supposedly federated with Ghana - supported

I told Goedemah I found this hard to understaud and asked him for his

personal opinion of Toure. I was annoyed at his reply, for Gbedenah, though &

direct and frank individual, 1s not siven to macing derogatory statements about

Gbedemah said of Toure, "The man Le a croos, a damgogue

and an opportunist"

• end =

NO FORE

NO DISSEN AHROAD

---

## Page 47

14-0000Đ

JURITO

LONELO USE ONLY

fORmAnnad

PROCESS SHEET

REPORT

MELISTEN

FoR

00/C COLLECTIONES

10.1

500

OTHES

117

22 8 4 0 6 2 5 8

SUBJECT AND AHEA

Indian Anbassador to US Beeking Cabinet Post Througt

Ast1-08 Statemento (Isd10)

CONTACT War, Tal, Orgunisatton, demen or Y" Number

Bans ad scaree

1.A7g

FISABER

12: 19/ 191201

a 1731

20624/3193925

BAr.

205/0/200/0/10/0/2105

TYPE On A

0625%

SEAMATED

MIAL CATIONS.

BATCAT 9, OTHEM

BUDJACT

477-0|5

ARTA

• ва 8919

Eavard I. Mose

Publte Kolationd

1025 Connecticut Aveno, H.".

Washington, D. C.

1 SUB-SOURCE (Name, Tillo, Ortunintion, Addre)

EXTRA DIBSENIMATICA CONTROL

MAY DE RELLASLO ON NEEB TO KAOW 1O:

I APPROVED LIT ON CHA CORSULTANTS

I APPROVEO ENTIRMAS PRIQUECTE

A. MOM- LAC AGRACIES FOR NES STUDIE

FRELD REMARKE

AS 18

DELETE

08 1. В.

DELETE

EMTURE

$ 1

NOT 0I95EMNATEO

TOO BENIHAI-

HIT NO TRIBULUE,

OTWER/MISCELLANEOUS

conned wre

CONTINTID TO

COITONIAL COMMENT

two put sari

c/s

FORM "RO.

I FEB $6

25 USE PREVIOUS COTIONS

EDITO

---

## Page 48

14-00000

ROl

726.211

TION

KEPORT

INFORM TION REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLENCE AGENCY

CQN-F-INDIST-TIAL

COUNTRY Indie

SUBJECT - Dodden Antaonndor to US Beaking

Cabipet Poot Through Anti-Va Statementa

REPORI NO.

DAlE DISTR.

NO PAGES 1

REFERENCES

00-1-3-133,928

6 July 1959

DATE OF

INFO

28 Jun 59 and earller

FLACE &

DATE AÇO 22 a 99 and earliar

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION:

SOURCE: US eltizen, publie relations apeciallet.

Source'a firm specializes in publielty for forelen governments and Industries.

Indian soverant and bustness viaitors to the US have bean aphaat in recent

voeko at the anti-la statemento of the now Indian Ambassador lisboid A11 C

Chagle,

There Inclulo cherges egainat US abipmento of arma to Intotan. The

Indians feel that the Ambassador 10 being hlghly undiplomatie and cannot .

bolleve that he la acting under ordors Iron bone.

On 22 Am 59, I talhod with an important Indien tadustrlallat, who ferrly

hold a high post in the Indian doverment and 10 quito close to Javaherlal

Hehri. Is told me flatly that the Ambasandor 1e Folloning an Independent

line and 1s not under lehr's Instructions, although 1t my bo posalble that

he bas tacit consent to procoed. I recolvid the Impression that the Indian

Governont is not too happy with the aftuation but has not jet inotretod the

Ambasador to deslot.

Hohru 10 alrays Inclined not to Interfer vith 110

diplomtic representatives mleas they set capletoly out of 11ne.

lo a personal one.

Chagla probably rocognises the fact that ho le one of

Independence. At that tine he vas a strong supporter of Mohamed Al1 JImal,

but broke with Jinnah ben ho supported a partition of India fato two .

separate countries.

Chayla then Joined the Conpress Party with Hahr and

became the Cales Justico ol Bonbay, Mor, he has political ambitions for a

Cabinet pout. He 18 unking the brach statementa primarily for home contion

to accomplish his desire.

1. I ma also sold that the Ambasador is trying to tale credit privately feu

the inet that the Ul Congresa has novad to send loss arms uld abroad.

• * AUG 1959

*-Q=Y-18

"MAVT

sebast

INFORMATION REPORTS

INFORMATION REPORT.

Duana are to do a made a Co DeaR A 2 Ma Jero and Dear 10 In aalidano ConDon MINITED

Nos so be diamunared 09941a9re deternal prodded

---

## Page 49

14-00000

(4-5-1-731114

O FORO NO DIES: DU/LIND

TREROUSTI

N9:18246219

то і пл

1.,9::

PROCESS SHEET

50R

O9/E CALECTIONS

Suadisiro

BATIS

FIELD

OTHED

BUBIET AND ARZA

Proponed Confaronee on Sowlet Juralen Econonie

Programe

a CONTACI Var, Tido, Organinaton, Aderor ep 17 D

Edward X. Mosa

Publle Relatione

1029 Cormecticut Averno, N.".

Ennalngton, D. C.

M. SOURCE UNar, Tlle, Unrimtion deldres or y" Mando)

1 78.681

fo--

CAS!

12684

POM 1S.A0U

RECENTU

He tar 1oe

18 9418977;

122

MODID

20011154471

MELIATEO

DAY

A4| AB1

20 21l301 10/a0 01a3/03j24

TYFE DO A

GRAPASES MARS.

Fre 1A7t1T

IPPJ0T8 119161

77/40 m

NOT

BIMINATED

AREA

A EUD. LOUNCE Wama, Tlale, Orgunoation, Acharces)

EXTRA DISCEMIMATION CONTROL

MAY BE RELLASED CH MEND TO KPOW TO

APPSONLO LEY DE CIA CORMATMAITS

APPROVED EXTERNAE PROJECTE

FID REMARIS

3))

NOS DIDILMINATED

ALATADY ITTPIOUIANCY

о. к.

AS 13

DELETE

PANT 8

DELETE

ENTIRE

S. D.

TOO DENERAL

OTHEN/MISCILLANIOUS.

CONDOUD WITH

CONTITIO TO

EDITORIAL CONMENT

Cipy tr PP/ EAD

H4-5566

F. O. CHIEF

FORM NO

IPES SE 25 USE PREVIOUS EDMONS

BRANCH • STAFF CHIEF

2•

---

## Page 50

14-00000

C-BrJ-5=1-D-577-4-1-71

10 FORS/TO DUEL A AND/1201D E

suerraith

4111880

CASF

120

00/F COLLECTIRS

SUBJECT AND ARIA

Boriallet Loader's Views on Important Issues to Idin

(Ind1a)

CONTACT PlaTe, Tillo, Organdaltor, Moles or T' Number

Bany as source

n # 1999-

12684

A5. 9109÷

ой, Їже Го

13.26.29. 29.21/20020668p

1X041 29131029/1/9

Toas

156187301301501

41/47/43|44

06/52

4178 0).4

Caris

45

SEMINATED

# 8119989996

от50: 119489

47, 68. 6919,

AREA

1162/55/36

Melo, Orguplantion, Askines or "7° Number

' Puble Relationa

1025 Connectiout Avanuo,

* 1.5

A72684

Vashlaston, D.C.

6 SUB. DOVACE Wamo, Tilla, Organtaudden, Aditres)

EXTRA DISGEMINATION CONTROL

MAY GI RELEASEE ON NEED TO KNOW 7O0

1. ANPAONIO LITY ON CLA COMICA TANTE

B. APPROVED ENTERIAL PROJECTE

8. MOM- INC MGERCILN FIO NES ITUDAES

FIELD REMARKS

0. 12..

43 19

DELETE

PART &

08 5. 0.

DELETE

#. D.

MUT USCAMIMATLO

TURED SUCCITY

1'A) Centane

В. 2520029460 13

EDITORIAL COMMENT

F. a CHIEF

FORM NO.

1 FEB 36

25 USE PREVIOUS EDMONS

2°

ing

---

## Page 51

14-00000

mome

72684

LINI ORMATION RECORT

MAINEORMATION REPORTA

CENIRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

C-@I/I-D-E-N-T-I-AI

COUNTRY India

SUBJECT Sociallot Loador's Viavo on Inportant

Isnuco to Indiu

APORI NO

DATE DISTR.

NO PAGES

REFERENCES

00 - 8-9,132,019

19 June 1959

DATE OF

INFO.

46-053 22393 59

PLACE &

DATE AÇQ4-5 169X-59

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION

¿surco's fin specializes in publicity for forelen goverments and induntries.

During a conferenco in the US on Indian cononic developart on 1-5 Kay 59, I

bod sevoral opportunities to tal inormally with the Indian Loclullot Farty

loader, A lahta.

Under queitioning, he told no that the Eocialist Party

actually coincides almost 19 farcert vith the beliefo of the lehra Coverneat,

but dodgiven un aspocts of policy ad acuiristration. In effect, his 19

just another "opposition" party.

Ecclalion 1n India cans equality of

opportunity ind not too great a concentration of venithiin anyone's brudo. He

pointed out that he 10 for private enterprine and used un en extile the fact

that ho persuaded tho Indian Governest to Bet out of the fertilizer buninoso

Ho belleyes thrt business

should do the Jobs for which 1t 18 carable and the goverment hurdle those 1t

carnot,

2.

At the time of tha botan revolt, he demanded that Is far"""

polley echinat Communiet China.

no, ele glad that who did vot do a la

because the Prime Minister know that any such nove would jeopardizo tco flight

of the Dalal Isma, which be had been privatoly inforued was then in progress.

•Manta adder that the Tibetan Incident has had more effect on Indies jublic

opinion than any event alace Independence.

The people at all levele are deeply

abocked. He agreed that the Indien Goverment must paintain 143 position of

son allement officially, but the people and publle servants can cortinue to

have atrongly anti-coumniat sentiments.

India 10 at lart aroused to the darger

of counten, which 1t was sot ot the tine of the distant lngaria repression.

3.

He felt that the oituation In Kerala State was prinarly because of a "botch"

by the Contreas Party.

He thought thet the coumunists von the fuitial election

because the people voted in protest aginst the Contress Party, They sere sot

communist ayapathizers but were perely cisgusted with the goverment. Commist

success the socond time was traceable to much the same situation - secend rate

Congresa Party card cates and Ineffective policies.

He Is certain that the

communists cannot lung remain 11 pover 10 Kerala 1I the Congress Party will put

up good people.

During these statenents, 1t vas obvious that, Ebougic on anti-

carurist himself, Mehta vaa not particulerly concerned over Kerala.

regarded 1t almost as en example thut elective depocracy le ectually working in

India.

STATE

kehta 1e concerned over tehru's drive to Implement the new cooperative faring

plan.

He agrees that India muet Increase for 1n0 production but this plan will

not be popular. Anything which arfects peesant c:- ip of loed cannot set

C-Q-F-F-I-D-Z-[-T-I-A-I

All

INFORMATION REBOR

NOFORN

Oras MOdUIRE NIS demanis and A fter dAlat85 99 19-18 109.7966 890

+0+308881 900-35041851

ATION.

SEPORT.

LINITED

on pie a led if a nur parole serpens

yo: 104-19919159100

10°29: 5188466080180

---

## Page 52

6.

C-0-P-7-I-I-Z-U-T-I-A-L

DO POIN/DO DISULA ABHOLD/LLNTED

• 2.

+o:-2-3-2-3734919)

goIng 10 10010.

He cumented that the ladlog 1091rs for murder la lidle in

diapute over land teruro.

He thinka sins sees sort it markoting cooperatie

vould be more effective.

le via sost anxious for a roconciliation betren Islia and Pallaton. He E.le

that thia vos ineritrols but, rhould be very acon. Vullo lo the U9, he bad i

quiet conference with the Milntaml Antassador un triy aubject bud told se turt be

trequoutly mies tripo to Pukintan 1:olf, to talk to 1ta leadero, Mehta felt that

Nehru may be coming around to Arop lis porsconl aut1-Pakistan Sealines, salch

were brought about largoly by vhat ho corsilered 111 una by pukistan at tbe

timo of the kashmir crisle.

Ashta also belloves tast the Tibetan revolt bas made

both the Indians and Pablatans more consclons of the lact that they must sot

together to solve their problem, - tur.i:...

Nehta usreed that the west had taken the correct stepe in the cold var to cortain

camuniet night and aggresaion.

Horster, he did thirt that there must be arme

nethod by which the otrains of the cold mar coula bo relaxed.

C-OH--I-DE-IT-I-AI

NO FORN

IU DISSEN APFOAD

LINITEI

---

## Page 53

fD In + 109-5-9-561

TO FCAN/2O TIESEN ABD/LOT

PROCESS TRUTT

00;C COLLECTIONS

H 2

01 2 2|7191

F. GUDIRCE AND AHEA

Balfof that Ambasandor Romalo le Main Cause of

Mounderotandings vith us (Failippines)

6_ SONTACT INar. Fula, Coge

Sane de source

Addrose or "f" Nawederi

M. SOURCE Name, Tula, Dr

Baster, Adeless on Yo Ribert

Mr. Ebrard K. Mas

Publie Rolatione

102$ Contesticut Avenue, N.W.

mahlagton, D. C.

UB-SOURCE Name, Tal, Cesaritation, Addres

18 116

DELETE

PART &

0₽ 8. D.

DELETE

ENTIRE

= =

APPROVRO LIST OF CIA CONGULYANTO

APPROVID ESTANNAL PROJECTS

N. NOW INC AGRECIES FOR NIS STUDIES

FIELD REMARKS

EDITORIAL COMMENT

c/s

F. O. CHIEF

FOUN NO 25 USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS

I NOV 56

....

72684

USE ONLY

DITSEA.

RECORD

30

43

TYR 110-8

+900498.19ME8

RELEASEO

10.

42/491

sHot alto

SNEA

350:

GOT DISSIMINATED

AMRENENCANTLY

TOO BERIBAL

DATA SUPPLIED REGULARLS

OTHER/ BISCELLANtONS.

COMMAND WITH

2 (20.081

---

## Page 54

COUNTRY

Philippicea

Agicosaddr domilo the Main

Couse of iilsunderstandinga with US

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

i the ly we set is and tea to I ponted to the

' C-O-I-F-I-DE-]-T-I-A•L

RiPORT 11O. . 00-

E- 3,225,330

DATE DISTR.

10 liar 59

NO. PAGES

2

REFERENCES

Guide 164 - PIL

!

DATE OF

INFO.

24 Feb 59 cod earlier

DATE ACO, 24 Feb 59 eid e:"ller

IHIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION

SOURCE:

Officer of a US public rolationa fira, which specializes in piblicity

for foreiga coverments and Industrles.

Bas been Informally corsulted by two friends concerned with developments

In the Folliprices. One 1s o US bucinession of vary years starding in

the erea and the otter 18 a Filipino voo was very close to President

Hagaoyroy ard his adainistration.

1o Tro frierds of aire, who are la close touch with develorents in the

Philippices, are nost concerned about the present straiced relations

petween that courtry and the ls. ace 18 a Us burinescman with nam

years' experience in tbe country aud the other 1s & Filipino who was

very close to President Nagsaysay and still hes important political

connections with the Garcia regame.

They have told and fairly convlored me that the rain cause for the

rift between the countries is the Philippine Ambassedor to the US,

Carlos Romulo. I could not belleve this at firut becaure it seered

" The story is that prior to the arrival in the US 1a June 1958, 01

president Carlos Garcia, Hoculo had been forvardire sessages that a

substartial US loan vas a foregore corclusion and be could personally

arrange it, in effect by a few telephone colle.. After Presidert

Carcia reached Washington, Romlo told him that he had the commitment

for US$100 dIlich, which was not true. Ate secting with President

Pisenbover, President Garcis mentioned the seeds of the Phlllopines

and sisernover replied in general terns about the US desire to be

helpful. Tais Gercle Interpreted as confirentior of Bormlo's

statement about the loan. Garcia cabled his governent to thic

effect and also made statements to the press at the thee of his

departure.

When the loan vas not forthcoming, Carcie becane bitter and vas

strengthened in his bellefa by further nialecding cables fron Romlo

that the US was not living up to ita agreement, that he was working

on It, etc. It vas not until Garcia vent to Japan December 1958J

and lad an opportundty to talk to my filipino frlecd that be got

the true state of affairs.

He asked my friend what ves happening in

the 03 and vas told of Bomlo"s activities.

99109m 40=3

C-0-N-P-I-D-E-Ñi-T-]-A-

STATE

ARALY

HAVY

INFORMATION REPORTS

NFORT

ALTON REE

do era intendance cool a tele

One pu de dissessinaped lo consuldarte esternali deces ou

one a rada share or art duce cope naras No era no mello lot tire empires de lA ABC. POU Sidio ma Drono: untos eno

---

## Page 55

RO PORE/SO DESSER ABROAD/LINTEND 00-B-3,125, 330

So Poo, Ca-clo 10 10 a dilemma.

Re himelf would lock roolish for luring

Dea seica in by hio own ambassador, shouis he coan out with the truth

and aste tilo the scopepont. Thia 18 a position he cannot tike

vitbout further reukening his on analy admintetration. Furtie,

Carela carnat fire or renove faulo, vithout the necessary expionation,

because 1i vould then appear that bo had given in. completoly to his

anti-ls faction by removing the best Filipino friend the US has bad

by promed record.

6. My triesda say that Romlo bas resorted to these desperate tactica

beesas he koous that mary of his countrynen vies him removed.

He

dons. not tiab to rotura to the Phillppines and does not want to Jose

his sabsendorship.

"or this reason, he has continued to fabricate

or to aislend bis own coverment and to foster the difficulties

betveen tha tuo countries. My friendo are convinced that Rouulo must

but thes- vley iu the long one.

years and the problem betwen the US and the Pbilippines, which are

largely aisunderstandings, mat be

solved before it might be too late

for the sert administration to repair the damage.

eni

SO FORE

HO DISSEN ABROAD

LOVED

---. ..

---

## Page 56

14-00000

TO:

ГОМ:

TOP SECRET

SECRET

INDIVIDUAL INFORMATION REPORT EVALUATION

Estations leres,l

Vi's

doing

Miss W. Kroa

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGACY

=I CONFIDENTIAL: 727.54

3 Narch 59

HEPORT WA

umE 3,225, 329

DIBLA NO.

C(15P): 19004,

VALUE OF TIMS REPORT

FILRO A FRIORITY HILD

OF CONBIDERABLE VALUE

OF VALUA

¿JA. OF SIONS OR NO VALUE

C. ALREADY OUPPICIRNTLY INCIN

• NO DATA PRRMITTINO

A CURACY OF CONTENT

To 616241

38.

FERBARAT TRUE

8, ASCARALY PALAR

CANNOT DA SUDAND

SELA.ASA ENDORIS BASIS POR SONN ASALLATIDN IN SECTION 61S BL104)

(11) COLLECTOR'S QUESTIONS TO EVALUATOR

HAS-CATANCE OF RECEIVING FURTHER

@SHINT, ON THIS SPECIFIC SUMIECT

• 2 09-995C148 IMPORTACK

H 00 10H9I0ERADW INPORTANCE

LA U8 SUONS IMPORTAMES

2 A MAR 1959

DIfIcult to live a cat-gorical ovuluntion of tils rocort sinco 1t probably

contains an olement of truth, but 1t cortainly not the ticle story.

It 1a

ta1l kno that komilo spordo considorable tine bcostiar, "e on attest villo

to Philippino rovoriont's calations with 1S, and 14 18 grannblo tiat he alte

nisloads his govornront in the hope d indorout :17r, k15

enchios at hone.

Is not lonoun

to what artant, ior lo triod to cortinee larele

that aiseablo us

loana wore in tho barr but Garcle had plosty of man, fron l's offloiale prior

to 11e trip that trás me rot the caoo.

Romlo" a position with hia own rovorn

ment 1s cortainly sraig and it lo unlikoly that Is or'nions aro raven hoavy

wel ght by the tarois rovercent.

in may be a factor la present IS-PI diffloul

tios, but tho reasons

for grocert strained relatione are nore compler than

my slaundorstandires cassod '5y tonulo.

LIV) EVALUATOR'S FOLLOW-UP QUESTIONS OR GUIDANCE TO COLLECTOR ON SURECT OF THIS REPORT (Nole: Umles

formal requirement is lo follor, collechion of information in repty to puestions on luís maladon sees will de endaraden oris

as commonical or available!

Long.

trays relea

FORMAL #EQUIRINSAY IS

FORMAL MEOUINEMENT ES

NOT BEING FORWARDED

товы но.

ANG

39a

SIGHATURE

Divisiod

[7TOP TOP SECRET ||] SEGRET

BATE

6 march 50

IF CONFIDENTIAL

4#9)

---

## Page 57

39. e đt

9901-1-8-57980-1

• PORE/RO DIECOM AASD/LJAITES*

FOR FIELD UDE

ONLT

1260

FRA NEADOUAR

: OMLK

PROCESS SHEET

FOn

00/C COLLECTIONS

Pind

Dp.d

rente

Jatris

• 1a18.

097591

CHA3

12/8662/2373

SUBJCT AND ANtA

Bpoculatien

OP Comranist sITort to Britch Porulgn

logiatry os Us satuing (Libarta/Iutornatiouil)

S. COWTACT dem, Tate, 6r e ao troda

Damo вв sourco

65 05 9

8304.

soUwch?Wawe, Tieto, (se gunezurnoe

Ehvard X. Nasa

Publle Bolatione

172684

105 Comnecticut Awa, M. V.

Weantagton, D. C.

AUD-DOURCE iNawe, ini. iifrremenna Sdroa

BRIPA DISSEHIMATION CONTROR

BAT DE NELRASHO OU METO TO NNON TO:

APPANTGD LOT OP LIA CONSUSTANOS

Abenor&& ahtktioe, bbndeert

MOH-IAC AGENCIRO POR MIE ATURIEE

FIELD REMARKS

i ts

38ER1H4

08 ₴ 0

D8LET#

GATIRE

« 0.

cien adatans

EDITORIAL COMMENT

no faal

z.- =

e/s

POR# NO

# NOV 58

25 USE PREVIOUS EDITIOris

EBITOR

Antii.

2 casir

---

## Page 58

72÷54

INFO PORT NOrMA, ON REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

6-0-1-7-1-10-121-9-1-A-t

COUNTRY Lilberta/InternatIoni

SAB SECT

Moralation of Commandet Effort to

Dolich fordlen ingistry of Us ahipping

RIPORT NO. .

VATE DISTR

00- 8-9,220,069

9 Jamag 1959

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

DATE OF

INFO.

29 Doe 58 and orrlier

MACE&

RAIL ATO 22 DES 5Ô And ARTLIAR

TOLS IS UNEVAIUATED INPORMATiON

SOURCE:

onfirer of a Us publie relations firm, which socialime in publicity for

Lorien soverments and Inintries.

lo the International mritino boycott, which bocane affrctive in Deceber 1950,

agalpat the

"Flags of convenieace"

n9 UB quel veinels reglatored under

foreten nitione, bey caused considarable consteritión withlo the liberian

Jovermorat

Ilbertans realise that the countries Invalved (LibertO, Pasam,

Honduras, Donnican Republse) have been ude to lich 11l0 cocongtratora with

the Us ship operators to defruud the UB of revome aid taxes and to avoid the

manures of la mritive Law.

With the contimance of ruch a boycott, the

Ilburum fear that thalr Intersticoal repriation will de locrningly burt.

So I have loured that to the core of llberto, the blanket condemnition 1i not

Junts able because the viece of ship crum under liberian lay are the

hubert after thee of the up and the us mritine code of safety was adopted

Dy liberio verbatim. The operatios of liberian rectains 9 10190. 10 9150

Nectirely natalitered accordina to thone reguation, aod, us a mi

no, Mbiran conni Impoct every Ilbertan flas vil elling' In their

mine.

aln the data to indoubtody knon, there 10 another factor tavolved. liberta

min. thn Poarth largot fleet in the vorld under its flas, including the unjurity ;

of the boat and muest Us tankar. In the overt af unt, Liberia has a

etains rument with the Da that these vasele will be mitched to t

macity without formatles.

Anch an agreneat doen not exist inder other

PonsEn Dog remato, Home Individuale concernd with the Marchart aritan

Iani, theretone, that this boycott 1s a highly desirale tochnigue on the part

have grapò and effective control over seconary mbipping.

The Liberten doverment cannot inderstand why the U8 Doverment does not

pi1ely nute that 1t has arnoved the llberten flag operation, and there 10

cartmanly the prospect that a contimance of thie situation will hurt

m/raberian relations.

• 53

• end .

C0-J-I-I-D-I-I-1-I-A-1

LaL:

INFORMATION REPORT INFORMATION REPORT

- D the,

and 140t

mans normal are o

* # €A#

---

## Page 59

SO T010 DIES ADELAID

FOR FIELD USE ONLY

PROCESS SHEET

FOR

00;€ COLLECTIONS

SUDACS AND ARRA

Apparent Italton Preference to Dial with Ithsopho Inston

(Monal ta/154210810154027)

116 84

FOR HEADQUARTI

ABCAIVED

101b22

161516

CONTACT lome, Tale, l

TYPE CO-E

BUBJACT

Edward I. Moss

Publie Bolation

1025 Connectleut Are, H. Wo

- A 726.84

ANTHA DISBEHNNATION CONTROL

MAT DI BELGASCO ON NEED TO ENON TO.

APPROPRO LONE DE CIA CONEULTAHTE

АФРАДНИЙ ВНУКИНАЛ РУФЛІСТУ

N04-16C SAINCITE PON MY STUPIdE

FIELD REMANIA

0P 8, 0

EDITORIAL COMMENT

ENTIRE

M. D.

HOP- DAВАE9ТИО

WE DATE GUANGRO FREULAN

#8_0101 1

CONNED 99

- be apara

60.+10005-athi

€/#

I NON CO

25

PREVIOUS KOITIONE

2 4068

L

---

## Page 60

Fr2684

UNEORMATION REPORT

MiNFORMATION REPORT

CENTRAN INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

COUNTRY BonalLa/Etasona/Italy

SUBJECT

Azparent Italian Proference to Deal

Win Ith10r1a Instend of Bosalle

REPORT NO.

DATE DISTRA

NO. PAGES 1

REFERENCES

00..

A-3,220,868

5 January 1959

DATE OF

29 Doe 58 and earlier

INFO.

PLACE &

DATE AÇO 29 Dee 50 and enrifer

THiS IS UNEVALUATED IFFORMATION

SOURCE:

offscor of a Us publle relations fir, thich opecialises in yublicity for

foreden sovammento and Industre.

The preotintion ln the Us during Decenber 1956 vorklug tovande a

conclasion of the Development Loan Find loan to Sonia produced what

tops torris the indepenience of that country. In the latta

Deceber L95%, the town in quentlon reached a gofat where it vas bout

to be approved.

arretili of the had nerely requented some additiona

ineta flilly to Jutify the f1mnelnl comdtmont.

men sported by the italian negotiaton, but dosyate dplantion co nu

in indian and Italian, he appeared not to underitand the isine Invblved..

'At this Celal tize, It wa Learnin

a thit be hod returned to Italy for a volt;

no this n lons vil not be franted it mosent and a conterhe tany vil

exting De Lavalvell.

So. I have and haird a rur that Iaj1 Feral

ams unde a denl that, in setura for Italian npport of his being mde Prai

litotar upon granting of Indepentanes, he will contime to serve Italins.

arita

COVIDITI

28 JAN 1959.

INFORMATION REPORT

-INFORMATION REPORT.

---

## Page 61

14-00000

PROCESS SHEET

100

00/C COLLECTIONS

DUDAICT DED

DUGOEDrOO

00.0

72684

POR PIELD VOE ORL

PORROAO:"

T'A MRADQUARTERS USEPABE

1011

QUEDES

4.090

QUEDIO

Jos.

30002

10/0018188 88 3018080787 20120

LUA

Ad2s2178l72b56 1/44 B28211//2422

tanten

RELLADAD

pacOAD

00)

.o.

30 / 71

87, 10

2028

5700 00-1

SIRINATOD

MALARESAKE

Tao i so

ADRA

199 02,00/06

Navard I. MaJo

Publie RalotIono

llashingten, D. C.

#:7-72684

**RT

DAT DE ROLDADIO ON HERO 1O ESOU 10:

APPOOTRO LES DO CA COFDULTASTO

EXPOÇNDO ANTIODAS POO LECTO

DOCORE DOROCIDO POO DIO OTUDITO

FIELO MEDIARIO

COT DISSEMINATED

JUFOICIENTLI

A0 (J

SEINTE

PADT &

80 0.0.

BALITE

0179I9E

0, D.

PIDE BATA DUTOLED DROGLACES

шки HOд8401

5000/000 TITO

EDITOCIAS CONGETY

No Eras Requiste

Is su unde guititte

Lidiana caps

•el made!

C/D

0. D. CHIAP

FCANNO

I DON DO 25 NEE PREVIODO COIRIONO

2 caosta

---

## Page 62

_5-8-3-8-x-7-3#-8-1-A8

• INFORMATION REPORT..

PREPARED AND DISSEMINATED BY

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

TBER COTTON OFPAGERE TIECIAL CONTROLS. IF ANT

CAUDIOT

Bulan Rene

AUDACT

Reaction of Sudaneso Diplocat to Cou

so bo parated by tre.

airpor sa

00-20

8-30213,T2

DATE BIBTRIDUTED

- 8 December 1951

DO EI PACED

PO DO JACLA

SUPPLENUAT TO REPORT O

DE DPONDINE TO

2R&

Catsoes 87 1507.58

PLACE ARO DATE ACQUIRBO MY GAZION

22 50m 58

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION

SOURCE

O88ICOr OR O UB Juble solations 8880, valch opec1alsre0 10 jublicity 80s

Soren corrents and loaustr100.

20

During a convorsation vies habanados Torabla Ants, Sudanece Andanandar to tha 8S,

no speculated upon devalapauto nupposting the receut political coup 1a h10

I gathered cant Dr Anto bad not musrocted such a rasve, altbough be

otated that tha Khalil Covarnment bad become lucreasingly vorried about contral

of the country with the parllanem to convere no 24 Dor 58. Thia Furliament

and Do cloar majority, ani Abdulina palil fouri tass thero rould be resultine

esos unich could havo a destructiva affect on tba conildence of tha citizans.

Do voo afrala that thoso toala ba serious debralimatina becauso o8 political

1n11ghring

Ando porsonally feels, sirbout any confition an Jet.

that 1hal11 probably

called la Gossral Ibrahla Abboud to affect an apparant coup.

Both men are soch

cloDo risendA that AriO SeALA cOrtaLa that the JollEjeal iNve vas arranged

Botucan them.

tho sa coveramant apparently bas an interal notup closely parallaling tho

2992 overments.

focado has been ercred to inaura contimation of the pollcleo alresdy

establiabea.

Thora probably will bo so change in artarenl or internal objoctives.

Anto otared that Muhamed Mab,jub, somar Frole Malnter, bad piranad to place

mor of blo party in importart esbassies abroad. Tha Ambassedor Salt that

¿hin mould bar beea a edutake, allbougò it scula hava been a rachod ol

extenting party control inder tha precast governant, curear appointsanto sill

Boo of blo rolativas to obtala diplocatle statioas.

Ando 80 ecavincod thas laneral Abboud sa son-pollileol nud a patriotic Sudanse,

who vail remain in pover only until present problens are solved.

smelly of internal sustability due to the hichering ta political factiona

ard the Elle untos ragotiatione with Estyt, which mat to detendeed tithous

sulan Losing out to tarpt.

When there problems ara salvel, Arla feele that

Abbead will enil for eluctions vith she hope of fordos o Parlamant vita e

majority party.

In ¿along to sudanese rapresentatinen al tha un during tho

Was of 17 lou 58, 1 por Does contrasy oplainos that the ellitasy sovertoons

Eins and eventually lose 1ts temusary satura a savor as a

• 90"95:

Sho sudasaso Iaalater o8 Consarco, cecordlug to Aulo, recently vicited Cairo

so order so ingratiato birsals vich sha pro-seritian alesant in the Sudan for sie

om polliieal arature and lo alao vlobad to mie a curficient shou of negotiatien

Fido oose ainister had

SOlDçA DESTAg ObJeCEONs SO ERO US devalouserE Insa 08 l5 30 cilllos.

Eat tho seasone attormy sor soa broal ouar ol tha propased tertile sall la

Bho sadas hal fors so lonil ovar the land 0l ice landosor o. Costerce undag 88a

DISTEnDUTTOG

OrATO

---

## Page 63

6-0-8--D-5-8-8-8-40

30 FOR /FO DISSES ABRO, LIlTi

• 2 .

00 8.3,138,477

and, In ver oi hio poot efforta and the fact that ho bao a fiancial seeso%

La tha edil, illl certainly approte such us alê.

In fact, uhes Anlo soturas to

private bustreos, ba vill be the sholeuale diocributor for the inatile sall.

Laughingly sald thor the ney Foreign Miniater do torn betuan Icoping Aaro La 4h2

Us do an Arbasaados or gettlas hin hono ao quietly as pooolblo to bolo La sa

. bustsaoo.

6. ARdO Capressed biO BradE concora about tho colorution oR das soo ragurass Eba

coup Phich bas boza appaaring sa sho us preos from cairo DeRico. Ha Dada Shat

-

sande st0r1c0 bave had a pro-leads singe, alcbough the usseau has baos vasa

objective in general.

Asts farted that the Sudanano tablse 80 6500E28

gozo s1th :tra...

La tbo Sudan 1s 1957.

she even tea sudasase tho had siterded the gres vould cods ballove that 8rsy bal. :

10o% bacause they ara do gullibio so Gilro Erdio

DIL.

....

ai into s

S.",

1045

throws

=?.8

?e9,ir

set jian

•ps,

<33

• 28:

9.00

N.800

574d.y

ID DIESAY ABRONO

ал:"

---

## Page 64

BUGGLETED

FOR FIELD USE ONLY

FUNGARDID

PROCESS SHEET

FOR

00/C COLLECTIONS

cholAs 1/212/78172/2/8318

SUBJIET AND'ANEA

Man for Ul Hyptian Chanber of Cores - Theypol

VAR/ EGYPT

18 10|881

1 #0

MA68Y

„FOR NEAOQUARIENS

USE ONLY

отжа

10300/2019

12/0-111174467

RELEASED

• і ат

• 00 01/02/09 0

11VBS

D+s.

Das as monrea

AAPO91A 07H88

BUNATCT

##, #0

BOUNT * IN

Tolo, legendario

Pubile Holation

2025 Connetlent Aven, I. I.

washington, D. C.

A72684

SATRA D##AMINATION CONTINE,

MAY DE RULEASEO ON MAKE TO KHOW TO:

APPIPINA ANY DO ESO CONNULTANTE

BOURNE SSENCIES PON BED BFVENES

FIELD REMARICH

DILATE

PART &

0f I.

DELETE

ENTIRE

NOT DIBBE#INATED

ALMAADI SUPTICIANTAT

tow анана

TIPE DATA BUAFLITO PRAWLAWLE

EDITORIAL COMMENT

T. A CHEE

DRAPCH STAN CASES

sananth that

I NOW DB

25 VIE PREVIOUS EDITIONS

2 eas

---

## Page 65

20-72058015235

INFORMATION REPORT

PREPARED AND DISSEMINATED BY

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

SUBJECE

Plan for US-Egyptian Chambor of Commerce

72% 5Y

SEE BOTTOM OF PACL! VIPECIAL CONTROLS, IF ANT

Not a to code bore to a eins do

mann el the limon toms Mue 11: 0.06

Bore, 909 sal 914 the vasentunes se perstettes

of ible in oug manner to an anistorted bei

sos la prototal bi dewi

RROR: MO: 0043-3,217,467

DATE DIBIRINUTEO

21 November 1958

NO. OF PAGES

1O. 0F EACLE.

SUPPLAMENTT TO NEPTUT O

MESFONDIVE TO

DATE DO IIONMATION (Duo es deRm on al Dumods wiat evenes de o

anatod! 22 MioN 38 and oasl1er

PLACE ANO DATE SCOURIO I

12. Jor 98 and on ller

00/C-

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION

Officer El a Ul publle relation 11m, which apecialises in publicity for

forulen gorormente and Industries.

He to ecquelntodith the commorcial Counselor of the Vil Esbeasy

3.

I recently met the Comercial Counselor"

of the Inbassy of the UAR. This 10d1»

vidual struck mo, or triod to convey the imprenaion, as being neutral tovardo

the WA Covermment.

He oven implied that Gamal Abdul Nants's tactica vere .

ming his 11fe d1f11cult In Iulfilling his dedicated mission of economie

development of the Egyptian sector.

* (presumably, source refore to Hassan 21 Abd/

The Counselor suprleod me by saying. that he had culotly approached end "Inod

up" trenty sabetantial us compantes shich are roady to enter lato commercial

operations in Reypt sa soon as much a move would be Pensible.

The Hoptian

has been strongly advocsting that there la siple soon and unch opportunity sor

u3 businese in his coutry.

One of hia projecto 1e to establish a U3-Icptian Chamber of Comerce.

would be done entiraly as a private arrungement vithout participation of either

government.

then be obtained and ixchanged on a. free banti, which would five a higher degree

of creditability to buntnenmen of both countries than any govertuent sponsored

STURES

this

On this basis, he feals that Lacturi commercial Information vould

This vonld further serve to crate enough confidence to reestablish

He hed come so far an to have letterhends printed, with the sdee of establlahing

the f1rut beadquarters 1n Calro, but 18 nor connidering the advantages of lastial

steps being taken in the U8.

No improasion 10 thit the project 1e quite far

along toverin pomisblo sultion.

and

O8 JA 2990

T C000752510768011-955015

---

## Page 66

PROCESS SHEET

FOR

00/C COLLECTIONS

liaag natt

-.8EmIt9_

C-0-I-1-1-D-B-J-T-I-A-L

NO FORN IO DISEKH ABRD/LOT

FOI FIELO USELONLY

C. PCRMARDROT O."

FF IA

H

't °

AHBtrA

BUDJCT AND AntA

daruno Ambasnador'» Viows en Asvun Dun and Mtle Wuto

Problen

CONTACT (Num. Tato, (lgatiiarior,

Buna as sourco

12684

FOR HEADQUARIERB USE ONLY

#ECHIvE®

tapi

14646

1783117.529

NBLEAB®

TYP8 00 E

sasphiço, usra.

AVIkS

015

#*MIRATHO

BOvace lÑame, Tulo, E) quisemioo, Adaras er Y' Namen)

shrard & Mous

Publfe Ralations

- A 22684

1025 Connectleut Aremao, N. W.

Wasktagtes

D. C.

JUB.SCURCE INam, Tek, ua4uss

Addtresa)

SATRA DISSEMINATON

сентась

1ỎL MONN dL ONIN NO CIOVATAN ## A49

APPACUIS LIBT DO CIS CONBULTAWNS

AOO AOTTO BIYEARAL PRONCTO

MOH-IAE AGENCIES POE N9O STHBISO

FIELD

HEMARES

CÂN?

DELETE

ENTINE

TK фы

BUOPIEIENBED

OF #.

ФІ ФінаВ АВВаСТяВ

eurissirp arsusamt

OtMAN/MIOCECSAN801N

CORBIMEDNITN

EDITORIAL COMMENT

No E vae Regueaed.

Eedaane Cape ko

DCI. Cettu

sssee undugrde164

L.a 4i

PORM NO.

I NOY SE 25 UIE PREVIOUE ROIMOME-

H94OR

• STAFE CHIEF

7 12001

---

## Page 67

14-00000

2-00-Y2-57113EK

INFORMATION REPORT

PREPARED AND DISSEMIRATLOBY

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

76•84

ISEL DOTTOM OF PAGET SPECIAL CONTROLAS IRAL

Tato metal ovindàs lateration etentor De

Motonal Detone ól to Valad Statia wilita the

COUNTRY

of which to sno manses to as enauthoriod per

an la proditiod by term.

ПРОДТНО.

BUBJECT

Suden Exist

00- $3,217,579

BASE GISTRIQUILD

24 November 1950.

and Mile Haters Frobien

DUPPLRMEME TO REPORT A

DATE DA INIONNATION (DitO 0 d

otatol

12 12158

PLACE AND GATE ACQUIRED (Y N

# во родни

PEDRONINE TO

222 Nor 58

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION

SOURCE

officer of a US pable volution f1m, vich upocializen in publicity fer

forulen goverte and Industrel.

U3, on 11 For 98.

I sokod him wetber the Buden

bullding the hige aran don on its or territory.

could not objact, but that, of coures, the dan size would then have to be linited,

as would the watmr storee una and moulting eloctric pover mado avallable by

the dan. Such a development would sot cause zenl trouble with the Sudan so Long

as the whole oferation was kept vell uithis the keyptian border.

Ho said that the Lerptlans and ninitted that l1 the tro courtries vere one, they

would build a sertes of low dans, and then some lover version of Aran. He felt

that this wis a telling argment galast Feypt's present den position, sinco that

plan 10 the ss ni nos advocated by the Suder.

It. retuten the Feyptian 11ne

that the Suda 1s 1 lavless nitiou which has abrogatod the treaty on use of Mile

Bonethelená, the Ambasmador could not concelve any set of circumtances

which would come trily serious rupture betreen the two countries, though rept

tries to pronote propigande crises.

Bo 10 sury that Gamel Abdul lease wouid

never resort to wiltary force guinst the sudan and rather naively added that

ho did not think that there bad boen any seriou Leyptian Inspired aubversion

atteupts withis the Budas.

I1s opiaton 10 that Dudarose-Loytian relations w111

never reach e cilate in Inct became both contries wish to mintain at lemat

the semblance of limb brotherboad.

atle dispute.

"inure ta some connideration by the Budanese doverment of imaring

• "White paper" on the subject, and rossibly inviting prominent foreign bewsnen

to khartom for a perambulating mess conference.

This would Include two or

three days of sulled tours, conducted by the Foretgn Minister, to shor on the

ground the effecte on the sudan of the Aman Den.

Trene pinna have not been

approved as got, and my not be, bense of the fear by the Forelen Mnluter and

the Ambassador that vuch a nové night profudice Reptien segotiations.

The Ambassacor suid that both he and the forelyn Minister are worried that the

Us 1o seenirely unconcerned over the Jule problem of the sudan.

Its r oncentration

Avan ban ard the sadan aspect In saius overlooked at an important time.,

Ambassador sent serfously recommended that the US should grant the sudan

US$100 million so that it could go abead with its ou don projects. This vourd

nerve the purpose of countering the Serlet grant to Egypt and vould still

Indicate Us Interest in progress for Arab states.

I remarked that the recent Us loms development fund for the Budan had produced

considerable political opposition vithin the country.

He blened thie entirely

on mishandling by his own goverment and said that the amouncement and explanation

to the people ande 1t appear that the Sudanene Goverment and "sold out" or bud

TRIBUTION

---

## Page 68

C 708083-5-51-Dos

00-8-3, 117,579

Avon ary oconomie rigats to tho Us for us$30 alllion.

Theo saloo seyraundos

and sen orfoctive une dy sho opposition, do sele, coulê pruvont cecagianco os

• 05% o

L0 PORT

LO DISSIDY ARROND

ISHAND

•...

---

## Page 69

14-00000

C-(3-7-1-D-8-7T-T-A-1

LIÓ BURE/DO DIRSIA ABRD/LIKTTSI

FOR FIELO UDE ONLY

NUGGiFTAÓ

PROCESS SHEET

38 88813

Le POnWROrOTa

FOR

00/C COLLECTIONS

BUBJCT AND ABLA

178a11a98

Brdea, Lorabta dos tha hebarcaddande tha dezublle al tho

Bades, Ibrabin Ande

CONTAET Lamo, Ttte, (egandandos,

Baward K. Mosa

Pable Relationy

1025 Conbectleut Avemo, I. W.

tmmhington, D. C.

JOUSCa Grema, Isla, 6950009olan, dddroos ou f° tiaredo

A 72684

N=6:÷4

TOR MEADOUARTTHS UOE ONLY

sryai tr

АРСЕНО

119/30 11

17718

+11258311/9140

AELRABIO

DIRSEH.

80

40| 4

TIPE 00-8

Dis.

BUB-NONNCE LAmw6, JNle, Cr garolzadd»m, Addreno

FSTRA CIBSRMINATION CONTRAL

,MAY DE NULRADEO ON MERO TO KÃON TO:

АРАБИОНО ЛАНЕ ОЛ СЛА СОВДИТАНИЯ

ПРАВОЧЕВ СГУСАНЛА ОЛОМСТВ

MONAAE NBUNCIES OCO NNS ETTBIES

FIELD NEMANKS

о. к.

1$ 18

DELITE

PART &

0F #. B.

DELETE

ENTINE

8. Đ.

DTEAPNANE

788 &hfoemas.

JFARNRERMIEE DOULANY

OTHRS/ MIOCBELAMEONS.

CORBIMED WITA

DITORIAL CONMEN

s ne we seccimet the

el: 22075071

i Tu astu, wue

ses no prspose

wiee

dlessenisuatinget.

Attrched v11l not be resenund urt1l

after 6:00 Fil, Turoday, 27 Mor 58.

€/$

FORM N0. 25

a nor 8s

USE FREVIOUA EDITIONS

7. о. CAREI

EDIYOR

2 (20-697

tas

---

## Page 70

O PORN, NO DISSEN ABAD LIMITE

POH. FIELO USE ONLY

PROCESS SHEET

FOR

00/C COLLECTIONS

41860

CAD&

Aclv

18

1515 2

Problems of Renotlullag Dant of llou, Cooge

CONTAcT News lit

Samo no source

• 111

Edward 1, Mosa

Aibilo Balationa

1025 Connestlout, M. W.

Manhington, D. C.

BUD-SOURCE (Name, Tale, Ornamention Addres)

772684

72684

FOR HEADQUARTERS USE ONLY

Turk tor%

MARGE OP. 60801018

167/40

Des.

BAMINAIRE

AHEA

180|94

ANTRA DISSEAINATION CONTACL

MAY DE HELIASED ON MID TO RINTO

DELETE

PART #

OP 8. 2.

DALETE

not mine: ::

SH6913094180969

100 BREA

#. D.

APPROVED LIT OF CIA PORSUSTANTE

APPROVED EXTERNAL PROJIETY

HON ISE AARACINS FOR AS STURICA

FIELD REMARKS

OTNEB/1106011048064

comato ann

A 1895

The"sfor U8 company" mentioned in paragranh

EDITORIAL COmMENT

five, 11n0 six, 11 The Blarnor Compriy,

Copus sand direly

te SP/EAD, DDI, State,

and ocI.

doss atated that tot report may be colore

by allian Karla an interestod party.

understanda that some of the baokground

186, 849

information has been roported by her te

Mr. O Fries of the US Inbmay In Athens.

P. A. CHUC

€ 01708

FORN NO

I NOV SO

25 VAs PREVIOUS KITIONA

""2 13001)

pert

---

## Page 71

G0lI7l-7-1-A-l

INFORMATION REPORT

PREPARED AND DISSEMINATED BY

.. CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

COURTHY

7.2684

BLE BOTTOM OF PAGE FOR SPECIAL CONTROLS. IF ANY

This material containe internalios allecting doe

Motoned Dolearo ol loo Vultod States mithlo the

meepise ol lhe Laptonage Lawn, THe 18. U.B.G.

Bore 991 and 134 ibe trussmation as incolation

of which to any manner lo an ubaulheried pos

nos la prohilited by law.

REPORT HO

Cransa

SUBAICE

CO-

A-S =3, 227,581

DATE DISTRIRUIIU

19 Nor 58

_.._

PO. WE ENCIS

Probleno of Beaotivating Bank of Mos

NO. Or PAGES

SUPPLEMENT TO HEFORE O

DATE OF INTORMATION (Dote de latur on de Del woon whit, a

Mar 53 and earlier

PLACE AND DATE ACQUIRLO (HY BRICe)'

ascribed in report

00/c.

Hov 58 and earller

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION

SOURCE

Officer of a US publlo relations lin which spoolalises in publloity for

foralgn goverments and industries.

2.*15522.108

I have had soveral converantions with Illian Kerika, a US citizen of

Greek descent, who worked for Greer War Rellaf and becane friendly as a'.

result with many important Creeks, After World War II she learned of

the Bank of Klos, which had bem an effectivo organisation but had been

caught in the postwar inflation and bad become innotive, though not

Liquidatod. By negotiation vitb its private Greek owners she acquired

99.0% of the stock, and thereby cocone the firat US oitisen to control

o Crock bank through the Instrument of a New lork Olty holding company.

2.

The Bank of Klos owns, free and elear, tho iron mines In Greece (one

about worked out and not now econonieal, and the other rich in both iron

and nickel), an insuranse company and some roal outate in Creace, Assets

are estimated to be between 05135 million.

The main problem is that

the bank owes the Greek Goverent D8,1 silllon, but 10 otherwise out of debte

3.

She atteupted through varfous settode and negotlations to reactivate the

good mine. She had surveys made, indenting sood quallty ore, and at one

tine had arranged with a Geran ecrcera to supply equipment and technieal

personal in return for royaltiea en ore produced.

with the french Bane du lord for further finanoing, but Learned that 1t

was fronting for a Communat orgardiation which wanted to partioipate.

These attempta have not seceeded to date because she could not conclude

any finel arrangements untll the debt to the Greek Corerment had been

aliminated.

Though many Middle East buninenmen would welcome a IS owned bank operating

she has been unable to obtain any medium or long range develonent

lonna without orbitant interest rates. One offer abe has been hesitant

to accopt cane from a Canadian fir; uhieh offered to adyance ber, US$ 650

thousand which sould settle the Goverment clain for US?l nil?lom.

In

return she would have had to agree to buy USt3 million worth of gold

bullion owned by the canadian fim In sexleo. The teris were that she

would pay bout Us$31.50 per gold unit, bring 'it to Grease and then

rasall 1t to the Canadians at 0S$32,50.

She does not low the reason for

the deal except that poseibly the Cenadians wanted to transfer the bullion

to Inract on a percentage arrangeent of the salos price.

50

At one stage, a major US son pany L

I took two thousand tons of fron

ore for testing in the US, and when it proved out well she thought ahe

would ham a regular supply arrangement. It turned out, however, that the

company bas a deal vith ilarchos to spply Greet mado steel plate for hia

now dared,

_shipyard, with the belp of anotber important IS technical firm

These companies vere not interested in working with har but

had other plans.

She learned that they had hopes of neguiring her mining

proparty through the broad coverent.

Ibe syndicate officials did neat

DISTRIBUTION/

STATE

S50-1=7-3-2501-7=1-80h

ПО ВЕТКИ ДЕНОВО

LIMITED

LATTEN

ene Wil almone and lads

14301 9148990-14119

---

## Page 72

14-00000

NO FOHN/1O DISSE AFRAD/NITED

2

00-4-3,117,581

In Athens on 25 Jun 58 for this purpose but came away empty handed.

• and

-T-IAL

NO FORM/NO DISSEN ABROAD/LIQUITE

---

## Page 73

14-00000

SO PORS, SO DISSER ANTU/LINED

FOR FIELD USE ONLY

MELD

OFFIC#

REBORT

PROCESS SHEET

FOR

00/C COLLECTIONS

B016#

4Д-A

::::42:

BURIECT AND ANCA

Background of Ingoub"a Candidacy for Ul Presidene:

and Arsetion to Dafeat (Sudan)

8. CONTACT Came, Jule, Orgamiura, Audren w To Nambe

Bane as sourer

72684

FOR HEADQU

NS USE ONLY

MACHIVED

orate.

15/20/20/09 0

11 690085/13732

PALIASED

TTFE OBE

02268

JUDJICE

* 20|19/00

ARIA

Etard X. Mas

Publie Relations

1025 Connectieut Avane, I. W.

• A 22684

BUD-BOUNCE Waw. Til.

Washtrator. De fe

ENTRA DINSEMIMATION CONTROL

MAT DE MILLADIO ON NIXO TO HOW 7D:

APPADVEO LINY DO CIA CCNAULTANTH

APPROVID HITTINAL PRONICTS

NOW-JAC BAINCIRE FOR HIS ATUBANS

FIELD REMARKS

DELETE

PART &

0F #. D.

DELETE

#WTIME

AOT AUPPNCIRNTLT

MAMARAN

TIPE DATA DOPENS FEULARL

THERE: THE!

EDITORIAL COMMEN

'w..

no cal reguested

OHST

c/$

F. A. CHULP

FORM NO.

I NOV Sa

25 USE PREVIOUS SOMONS

2 120618

---

## Page 74

14-00000

1Ob5-1501

INFORMATION REPORT

PREPARED AND DISSEMINATED BY

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

Suden

BUBJECT

Background of Mahgoub's Candidacy for Ull

Fresidene, and Reaction to lafeat

7 700

22654

TP: FOR SPECIAI. CONTROLS: IF.ANY

se matertal evalutas Infarmedos sliselag

losal Deline of DorUstiod Diatos mila

meanine al Ma Laplansgo Late, Tiro 10. U.15

Bus. 981 and 986 the bunorestos or vereilles

non is prodibiod by low.

00-8-3, 213,732

DATE CSTRIBUTEO

2 October 1958

PCI OF EACE..

2

SUFPLEMENT TO REFON! "

DESPONSIVE TO

00/c.

DATE DE INTORMIITION (DOVO dE BOTOR ON dE bOlIda Whirl, errate es o

anna 16 Bop 50 and earlier

PLACA AND DATE ACQUIRED (HY DONICS)

16 ten 58 ad earller

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION

SOURCE

officer of a US publie rolationa fira, walch apeciallzen in publicity for

foroiga covermento and industries.

Mas negotiated with the sudiane for nons tims about the ponslbillty of

handilag none of their jubilc relations work in the US.

1. For some time I have unde overtures to the Budanese about conducting jublle

relations work in the ue for their courtry.

They regularly statod that they

would like such assistance but aid not have the funda to aupport a proper

program. Early l1 Beptembor 1958 the Lucaseso Ambasandor to the UB,

Ibrabin ints, received a cable fron khartous ordering hin to do everything /

possible to inform the UB public in favor of the election of Mohamed Abned Bahgori

the sudanene Foreten Minister, to the prazidency of the 13tb United latione"

Generol Assembly, In thie, the Sudanese Corment and two Objectives - to

obtain this bonor for Mngoub and to call attention to the Sudan and 1t0 poultion

1n vorld affairs.

2.

3.

The Sudan bas endeavored to maintain a position of strict neutrality since

obtaining 1ta Independence and bas tried to avoid any foreign entanglements.

The main reason bas been that the fedanase Coverment recognired the cravity

of the tast of vital dovestle econoule develoyment and felt that all energies

must be spent in that direction,' It Joined the Arab League primarily from the

standpoint of "brotherhood" but han utill tried to remain completely neutral ea

The fact thut the Counci?, of the Arub Lengue decided to support

Mangoub In the UN win based montly on the fact that the Araba considered

Charles Malik of Labanon,. the othar mfor candidate, too pro-wat and art!-Arah

In his vieva and orlentation.

In a meting with subgoub before the ill election, he comented that he was.

puzzled by the phobie of the U3 people over pan-Arab pationalian, Camal Abdul Instr

and communism.

He wald that the us today equates Arab nationalian and pride wit:

Naa1r1en, when in fact, Arab nationallan has been a fact for years before Fate.

He added that the Sudan has had ita troubles with lastr's Isypt but he did not.

personnily belleve that lastr had ormnized actual plota to overthrow the

lungoub also remarked on repeated offers of soviet aid to

the Sudan during the pant your.

He said that be had Irequently challenged the

Soviet ambassador to be more concrete and had always been elven some sort of

excuse.

The anbassador rocently anld under a sin'ar attack that be was going to

Moscow and vould have something definite to may on his retura.

During the perlod leading up to the election, the majority of the Aslan, Arab and

Independent Afriean states backed Mahgoub's candidacy because they considered his

to be an unencumbered position, while inith bas become identified with the us.

In addition, thie support vas given to prove, by his election, the emergence

of the influence of anil nations in the Ul, as Aifferentiated from the current

leadership of the plants.

Until sunday, l4 Sep 58, the Mahgoud goup had

Dredges enough to mare it bellove he would via. But at that point the US started

actively to cempaign for Mall.

Thin some was resented by hahgoub. Although ba

DISTRIBUTION

• CIA, AEC and PH: eo vicha liot end Delanes, so the la

Wer to be dinner

01A.

---

## Page 75

6.

To.

C00-1-7--D-1-D-T-1-4-1

NO FORA/SO LINSIS ABROAD/LiNITIN

-2.

00-B-3,123,732

rocognised the Us need to bonor sta jilodge to support sulta, se bollerod that

Us activitiea far exceeded the connitment to Mallk.

The suisiese, however;

vero not so irritatos no the Arab states, which folt that the lo vas trying to

Influence then to desert the ma of their choico la favor al the US celoction.

They cousidered this directly contrary to Prooldent Eisenborer's sussention that

Eba Arabo should do everything pousiblo to solve their om problens.

Mangous told no ha vas sure of thirty-nine votea, vith fire sore probablee and

sono additional posuibilities an hour befor the olection. Moe Scand larder

countries informed him the day before that they vould not vote for 1nl1k.

South America had divided In Opinion and vould not vote as a bloc. Of these,

Mangous had u1n pledges of support but in the final count, he endod vithout a

•Ingle voto tron Latin American as a reoult of vhat he called "threato trou

tho US, The chaos delegate rost. thot he had a higher duty than to euppor

Cho US, as a number of the Conmonealth, In voting for Milk. Mborla ba

Doen the firat nation in Africa to back the Eleenhover Doctrine and to support

the US Landings la Lebanon, but 1t too, folt that a noutral andertor abould be

@loctod.

The Sudarese ware upset by the anti-Nahgoud mmors, which they are convlaced

vero fostered by the Us, that the sudan 1e pro-communtet and pre-Arab.

These

atorias vero coumon in to UN in the final dayo bofore the vote and vant so fa

na to say that ngoub himel: vas a pro-losir atooge, despite hia record.

The sudanose do not consider themelved "neutral on the side of the USSA", and

In luct bave an effective anti-comunist leh.

They feel that thalr country'a

reputation was blackened unjustly by these runors and the resulting election.

It my soy be hard to combat Soviet propaganda opportunitlea in the Sudan,

much as claime that the Ul opposed a black Moslem in favor or a ubite Christian

and thnt the UBSR backed the Sudan while the US supported the other eide to

Its om national interest. Mahgoub fears that it will be bard for the Budanese

people to resiat such propaganda in their disappointment at the outcone of the

•loction. Ho 1a cartain that the Sudanese papers vill be full of soviet Instigatod

anti-US material and the mila Job vill be to "cool off" the pudlle.

Minhgous belleves that the Arab nations will be most irritated at Malth's eloction,

but that 1t w111 take some time to deteinine actual effecte.

He anted ne whethe

the 03 was Interested In Juntifying 1t8 pollcy regardlena of the consequencey

o's mao st truly Interested la making Irienda In Africa. He felt that the ve

and wuch possibly to lose and really little to gain by much apparent Interentio

In faror of one mo, illlk, who 18 not even supported by his cim lebanoi.

subgoub was certain that Central Shehab did not endorse lilly as van reported

the US press. Shehab alvaya losues publie statementa as written commiques,

which did not deeur in this. Inatance. A US correspondant had telephoned Sbehal

for a story and in conversation Shahab had casually mutiozed that Mallk vas a

Labaneue and he wisbed him vell. The ultimate story did not aypear 1a the

Lebanese, press because Sbehnb hinsolf controls cen vorship in that country.

In fact, the labanase prens endorsed Inhgoud even more than did the Sudanene

papere®

The Badanere Vorten Miniater ansured me that personally he aduires and 19kms

Malth. Millk's wife was ruised in Khartom and the tro wen have know ench

Othar for many guars. Inhgoub commented that before he left the wil the lant

t1m M11t had told his that be would ilthdraw his ovn candidacy 1f Magoub

whould be upported by the Armb-states.

This did not come about and my lapresmion

from personal talla vith Nahgoub was that the viole affair ended in sorrow for

him ratber than in anger.

He and his colleagues had hoped to sats more vorld

prestige and knovledge about the Sudan, but now fear that its carefully fostered

noutral stance has been ecliped by the stories that Mahgoud vas pro-commist.

Nabgoud told ne that he now plane to stay throuph the early pars of tha ul

mession and thep will do what he can to teep Sudan publie opiajon on an even

keel, Es added that there night be another chance for him to le elocted

president of the Assenbly.

10 FOLL

- end -

CO-I-F-I-DE-I-I-I-A

NO DISSEN ABROAD

INDOOR

---

## Page 76

PRUCESS SHEET

FOR

0O/C COLLECTONS

BUSTer AND MEa

FOR PIRLO USE QUEY

23888%

cooper

satianto of PinAnce Malotor Obodenh (Uran)

Tress or T Hardon

10 te To 10: 861n

72684

TOR HEAPUNANS GOODO

USE ONLY

OT91"

1081183110747

#ALIASED

$# :

001 DrE

SAMIRATED

IS 14 4 7141 9

M. souris inta has iguan suit.

Divard I. Boas

Pable Balatiou

1025 Oss6f1eat AveRsa, N. H.

mew At 72684

Bahtartca, D. C.

RETRA DOSUBEINATION CONTROL

WET ME AILBABBE ON MERO TO UNOW TOI

APPROTES AFER NO CM FPNITLFANTE

APPAOTES ENTITIAL DRA GREE

MOTORE AUNTENS WHO PIE EPIPENS

FIELD REMAINS

о. к.

DELETE

PANT !

0 0. 0.

EDITORIAL

COM

It USI

ce

to

DELETE

=*.

Đ. 6a85e

• NOW 88

OUT

DEACH - STAY CHEE

1. 71

2 caiss

extenst

L

---

## Page 77

INFORMATION REPORT

PREPARED AND DISSEMINATED BY

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

COUNTRY

IS:

OTTOM OF PAGE FOR SPECTA: CONTROLS, IF ANY

motoral coslalsa laternation offortng ta

Debonal Dolenes ol the Varred Stolee withle Sh

mening el the laponage Lawa Mile 18. U.BG

Soes 997 aod 906. to tranimtasies os corelation

of which to eny manor to an andathoread per

son to prohibered by low.

#Iportia.

Chara

00- 9-3,110, 747

•DATI DIOTDOUTEO

14i August 1958

Matinto of Maance Minioter Goeder

40. 60+4060

BURPIGMÉNI TO SEPONT

DATE DP INPORMATC (into 00 dole on or Dormoda whel, aronia so ros 1029

nel de ropert

and) Book of 21 trel 58

PLACE AND DATE AL QUIDEO (DE PORNO)

HESPONSIVI TO

00/G

Meats or ZI Mu 38

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION

SOURCE

Officer of a 1S public relationa fira, which specialired in publielty for

foreign corerments and loduetrics.

When Trans Murmy, Prise Mintiter of Chans, planned to Tlait Ebe UB

(July-huguat 1958), I vas Interested to see

that Fomla Acholl Obodenh was not

Included in the party.

He van left at have to "tend the store"

Hoverer, on

ASTiVal la Washington, Normah Lond that the arenate for Va Floancial

nanistanco vero not so far advanced as he had thought aod romosted that (bodenh

I'ly over to attend nestings as Mialster of Mnance for China.

_I have knovn fbedench for sono tine and understand that he 1n really the "sight

The two mon are crpletoly different types no ned and

complement each otber.

There to no real love lot batwu then but both have a

great recpect for the otber.

The other sinisters dial'ke Cbeisunh for hia

Influence over the Prime Maluter. Chedenh admitted te m that be can punh

antters juat so far In the othor ministrlos and than mit be extremely caratal

not to kave hia colleagues thint he le trying to intrude la their spharea of

Kormb, too, 1n conselous of thin Jealousy nad trlen to conceal the

extent of the Finaace Misinter®s Importance.

It la vury. come for ilcumsh to

discusr a matter with a Mintoter and then turn to Godenh for his advice as veil.

At the conclustos of the visit to Waahtaptor, Nkrumh anked Cbedenh to

noconpony hin for the rent of the triD, but the miniate wrand, anying that.

mrumab could do the band aintm, but he thought 1t vould be a vanto of tim

for himsell and preferred to do back to Ghans, Godenna la the only afficial vho

would dore to refuse & lumh sequent.

3. Obedewah 1s en Intererting personality, He 10 vory 1 Artem and 10 almont u

melen 01 Asles, the US and Iurpo, de 10 traly a latallocs by Alrican or

alnot any standardo, with vide ruging interests 1s my Hold, Ta Mnister

In extrevely vell-read, spending two to four hours nightly with a book. li

scoops up mterial of all kinds wharmer he goes and his poure el retentien are

excellent.

theoretical nature, and his thinklas tende to be toredo the possible suther

than marely the destrable.

The Finance Maliter thinko Favorbly of some sort of an AFrican Pederstion but

only 1n term of the futuro, parbaps la 40-50 jours. le 10 one of the dem

African icaders who seen to recognise the eventuml Importance af Merlanter

1t achleven its Independence.

the West, South and forth, with a lood single govert strature on top.

central goverent will be weak and Inatfoctive for som time for lact ef

expertenced personnel and becanse of area Mvalrles. Hour, because of

Merlo's future rotential, Cadem already mies a polut el salms eat or his

wy to cultivate Ilgerlan.

DISTRIBUTTON

UNITED

Daunterns taled to Pel

MANY

LANTE

---

## Page 78

14-00000

= 2o

4'15=3,1853,147

So Moderest,

seat Africa.

ALthough ba probably la semoral gallian sebittoo,

ut provost ho in coot at hora ao a bohind lacocones polleg Iatar.

poultray host, 10 the ovent of the fall Pron pan as too Coma st lind,

Goedeanh told to during blo crimes thols &

Inchlazzon iras ho fosro dojo Botato, tha Miniotor d Utato, PssO 10O DECA la

27o pria larintor dod hao not bean developing the lenderobia qualities ar

capardoreo codos to raylaco nuunh affectivoly 80r Chans phenua oat becor

ma3005]. Condema do concerned ovor ubnt uight baypon ui8b detols no l

asso carrant, although thara docao to bo so doids thas borate 10 em

67 1

3. 7:

19 ass- races .

i...

7o to a

wipes

i go. 9,

073

= =

+002080808B05-805aDo8

LOATIN

---

