104-10419-10433}

|

7

uw LET foe SOOO KE
os ' { CONFOENTIAL (Gen
Fy CONFIDENTIAL 7 -

CRYPTOGRAPHIC CLEARANCE ~ ‘BRIEFING STATEMENT
1. I, (print) Cas yl On JQ...

about to be authorized to have custody of, access to, or knowledge of KUBARK
staff cryptographic material or information, and fully understanding that the
preservation of the security of cryptographic material or information is vital
to the national interests of the United States, do solemly swear (or affirm)
and declare without any mental reservations whatsoever that I.will protect the
security of such material or information to the best of my ability, and that I
will not disclose such material or information to any unauthorized person. I
understand that the only persons authorized to have custody of, access to, or
kmowledge of KUBARK staff cryptographic material or information are those who
hold a current KUBARK cryptographic clearance and need the specific material
or information for the proper performance of their official duties,

2. I further swear (or affirm) that I will also protect. to the best of
ny ability the security of the cryptographic material or information of other
U. S. Government agencies should I gain possession or knowledge of such material .
or information as the result of my performance of KUBARK cryptographic duties
or in any other manner. .

3. I will thoroughly familiarize myself with the pertinent commmications
security regulations, instructions, and principles which govern the protestion
of cryptographic material or information. I will at all times provide the re~
quired degree of physical security in the handling of the material to ensure
that it does not fall into unauthorized hands or be exposed to or otherwise |
be made known to unauthorized persons. |

4. I have read the provisions of Public Law 513 of 13 May 1950. I under-
stand that I am bound by that Act, both presently and also after the termination 1
of my employment with KUBARK and/or the revocation of my cryptographic clearance. ’
I fully understand that improper disclosure or loss of. cryptographic material i
or information could subject me to punishment under the provisions of that Act, j
or as provided by the appropriate regulations and practices of KUBARK. i:

5. I understand that a cryptographic clearance is not a permanent clear-
ance, that it will be revoked immediately should I fail to maintain the required
security standards, or for lack of need or for other substantial reasons, I
understand that revocation of my cryptographic clearance bars me automatically
from further access to cryptographic information, but doses not release me from
my obligation to protect the security of cryptographic information, the know-

ledge of which I might still retain.
Lt i
Sighea:_C ‘Lace of hikes je

Oz Date:__29 Lex. SEFC

Witness:.-

RETURN TO CIA
CONFIDENTIAL Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce
CONFIDENTIAL .

Vex)

