(TCETIIISTIS ee i : SECRET C a is
ae ws ~ te 12 FERMINATION UNDERSTANDING Ku
i “¢ “os ;
i I, _ David Js Christ sss understand that by virtue of my

“duties I have been the recipient of information and intelligence material and
data which concerns the security of the United States. This information and
intelligence, together with the methods of collecting, handling and dissemi-
nation are classified according to security standards set by the United States

_ Government. Iam aware that the unauthorized disclosure of such information
is prohibited by the Espionage Laws, (18 USC Secs. 793 and 794), and the
National Security Act of 1947 which specifically requires the protection of
intelligence sources and methods from unauthorized disclosure.

l agree that I do not now, nor will lever, possess any right, interest,
title or claim whatsoever in or to any of the information or intelligence or the
methods of collecting or handling it which has come to my attention, but shall
always recognize the full and vested property right of the United States in and
to such matters.

Ido solemnly swear or affirm that I will never divulge, publish or reveal
by word, conduct or by any other means such information, intelligence or
knowledge except when necessary to do so in the performance of my official
duties and in accordance with the laws of the United States, unless specifically
authorized in writing in each and every case by a duly authorized representative
of the United States Government,

I understand that the provisions of this oath will remain binding upon
me, even though by relationship in being terminated.

I agree that in the event I am ever called upon to testify in a court of
law, administrative proceedings or other tribunal regarding information or
intelligence within the scope of this oath, I will notify a duly authorized
representative of the United States immediately; I will also advise the court
or tribunal of my oath to the United States Government and request that my
need to testify be established before I am required to do so.

Sa see a Ca meee ee ee

I understand that this oath will be retained by the United States Gov-
ernment for its future use in any matter within the scope of this oath. I

take this obligation freely, without any mental reservation or purpose of
evasion and in absence of duress. Projects being terminated| No

further items.

Merk £. Chust _Chaefer __"

i (Signature) (Organization)
Ce [ar [or? ! Ve
} (Title) (Ddte)

‘I
Witnessed wbdurd RiOufhy Rs
SECRET die: Jy

