# 104-10186-10267

## Page 1

104-10186-10267

RETURN TO GIA

Background Use SAly

Do Not Repreduce

INFORMATION REPORT.

INFORMATION REPORT.

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

i matertal concalas loformatino arrellit the Falonal Delese of the C'altol Statos villa tro Marind of the Haplorado Lawa 111

• VAC. EMs Tes and Te the transnlason of pereimun of which in soy manner to an unduchorterg pornon de prohibited by la

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY Cuba

SUNECT Antonio CARCEDO Ferrer

REPORT NO.

DATE DISTR

NO. PAGES

CSCI-316/00701-64

31 August 1964

3

REFERENCES

DATE OF 1964

INFO.

PLACE &

Washington,

D. C.

- DATE ACO. AUGHS+ 1964

FIELO REPORT NO.

BMIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRACINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL ON CONTENT IS TENTATIVE

SOURCE, A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Service until April 1964.

Headquarters Comments

The following report is one of a series containing personality

information provided

by the scurce and includes supplemental

Information

from the records of this Agency.

It is roquosted that the addressies take no action on any of

Individuals mentioned in the personality reports without

first checking with this Agercy.

Sourco was

on the Marcos RODRIGUEZ Case.

shown a copy of the lloy newspaper

In sereoning the text of the

article ho commented of A:""in CARCEDO Ferrer, pseudonym "Andres,"

who was one of the witnesses at the erlal.

Source said that

CARCEDO was a translator

for the Department of Information

the Direccion General de Inteligencia

(General Directorate of Intelligence - DGI).

Source added

that CARCEDO will probably go to Prague shortly as the

the DGI and Czechoslovakian Security.

1,2,3,4,5,6,7, 8, 9, 10, 11,12

Headquarters Comments.

1. An air passage list revealed that one Antonio CARCEDO

Ferrer, born

29 January 1931, in Habana,

Cuba, arrived in

* Paris on 13 September 1952,

enroute to Prague via Brussels.

He was described as a student.

5

2. A report dated 9 December 1952, from a usually rellable

source, said that AntonIo CARCEDO, the yoûng Communist

of the school of Arts and Sciences at the

University of llabana, bad recently returned from Bucharest,.

5

3

2

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

GROU

I enchanted beans 011390001

dr capunding and

3

2

STATE

I NIA

I ARMY

REP CINCLANT

(Nora. Fiold distribution indicolas by "#")

NAVY

CINCSO *

AIR

I&N'S

INSA

1X*XX

1 022

T FBI 2

EINFORMATION REPORT INFORMAN ONEREPORT

HISA/EOR L/HE/S/R

CILIA

-LE.

al HE WADE

CI/RAA

il

BiLE

TOPALE

WH/SAT P WE I (2), CIT, RID

LX-1617

¡ NO PROJECT (AMMUC/1)

CSC1-316/00701-84

coonna is 111400

1831K: LD: 4wk

3/BR

---

## Page 2

SECRET

• NO

FOREIGN

DISSEM

-2=

shete he had renresented Cuban studonts at the Congress of the

International l'nion of Students (IUS).

# inIrls rollible source, in a report dated 25 May 1955, stated

that Andres CARCEDO, possibly identical with Antonio CARCEDO.

mas an actire Juventud Socialista Popular. (Cuban Communist Youth

Orranization-JSP) member.

He is described as young. stall

considered in the informative years,

not yet well indoctrinated,

but enjoys

considerable confidence of the JSP leaders.

4. An untested source, in a report riles "s July 1955, stated that

Antonio CARCEDO was an active JSP menber.

5.

In a 21 December 1955 report, a usually reliable source gave

the fcllowing information on

Antonio Francisco CARCEDO Ferrer:

- CARCEDO was born in Habana, Cuba, on 29 January 1931,

to Leocadio CARCEDO Saavedra and Ana Celia FERRER Gener.

Their ¿to's was Calle Figuras No. 370, altos, between

Esperant an: Gloris.

CANCEDO waS

single and in his

thira jear ard five

jat course at the School of

Agriculture at the University of Habana. • He has three

brothers:

Aldo, born about 1941, is a student at the

Colegio San Alejandro, Habana; Sergio, born about 1938,

is a student at the Escuela de Artes y Oficios, Habana;

and Leocadio, married to Sonia VALDES Y. Noa, is a mechanic.

CARCEDO told source that ideologically he is an enthusiastic

Communist and is a member of Juventud Socialista (Cuban

Communist Youth Organization - JSP).

CARCEDO sald that

he has never belonged to the National Pro-Peace Committee.

He studied five years at the Escuela de Artes y Oficios;

in 1952 he atteniod the stront Contess hold in Bucharest,

Rumania, as a representative of the students of thit school.

6. An untested source, in a report dated 28 Novenuer 1900, stated

that Antonio Francisco CARCEDO Ferrer is one of the four nost

active leaders of the JSP at the University of Habaua.

7.

In August 1958, a representative of this Agency showed several

sources a photograph of Antonio CARCEDO Ferrer.

The: source

identified the person in the photograph as being the same

individual who transited Quito, Ecuador, in Decenber 1957 and

who identified himself as being Raul Eloy FERNANDEZ Saenz.

FERNANDEZ Saenz is also known as Raul E.

FERNANDEZ and possibly

is identical with Roberto FERYANDEZ, aka Roberto RIVAS.

SECRET

SO FOREIGN DISSEN

---

## Page 3

14-00000

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

-3.

8.

In a report dated 26 Fobruary 1959, It was reported that Antonlo

CARCEDO, probably Identical #1:h Antonio Francisco CARCEDO Ferrer,

the cuban Communist Party Youth Leader, had reservations from

Habana to Lisbon on 27 February 1959, from Lisbon to Amsterdam on

1 March 1959 and from Ansterdam :o Vienna on 2 March 1959. His

passage had been pald through 8o Mexico. (This travel was verified

oy alrline manifests Included with later reports.

9. In a 30 April 1959 report, & usually rellable source identifled

photographs

of Raul Eloy FERNAVDEZ Saenz and Antonio CARCEDO

Ferrer as being identical with the person known as Robert RIVAS.

10. On ll March 1960, a local Habana newspaper (name not given)

announced that Antonio CARCEDO was made Secretary. of Propaganda

of the First Latin American Youth Congress.

11. A usually rellable gource, in a report dated 6 March 1961, reported

that Antonio CARCEDO Ferrer

was in Moscow for the First World

• Youth Forum to be held there in late

July or early August 1961.

23. Eradio: aurane manadots rescaled dae following travel by

Habana to Mexico

- 11 April 1961

Mexico to Santiago

- 13 April 1961

Santiago to Montevideo • 24 April 1961

Montevideo to Copenhagen - 27 April 1961

S

E

C R

NO

FOREIGY

E

DISSEM

---

