# 104-10193-10069

## Page 1

104-10193-10069

MATERIAL REVIENED AT CIA HLAUQUARTERS BY

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTÉE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MENBERS

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUNE:

01725

INCLUSIVE DATES:

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:

1947÷1962

cS Files

ROON: 5E /3

DELETIONS, IF ANY:

NONE

DATE

RECEIVED

22:120

22000,28

P:45

DATE

RETURNED

REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME)

Chuck Keit

DANDARROWAV

SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

Chich Sol

han Handway

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE

TERRINATED

---

## Page 2

14-00000

Gar Nutriber 1939

INSECITR ERVICE COMMISSION

і найтед дЕ ріря

1. FUEL MANE OR-EMPIONEE

Shant:

AGENCY CERTIFICATION Of NSURANCE STATUS

Federal Employees' Gröup Life Insurance Act of 19$4

≤78FA131

& DATE NI BIRIN (MUNIA, DAY, YEAR)

October 22:

1900

I. CHECK THE REALIN FOR ITS

:: D

SEPARATED

ATING INSURANCE

(x)

: 12

RETIRED

WAS EMPLOYEEN! TIME'OF

Rey de in

CIVIL- SERVICE

REIINEWENIY

TES

NO.

(«).

(*).

STATUS

ING S.P. 34, LESIGNATION OF HENRICIARY

CURRENT

S.P. JA ATTACHED

b. X1

ALENLY

(. O

THE LEDY

FILE. IN

PERSUNNEL

IF EMPIONEE (A) DIED OR (B) 1S RETIRING OR RECRIVING HEDRAL EMPIOYEES' COMPENSATICN UNDER CRINCITIONS ENTITUING MIM TO RETAIR

GEE LIVE INSURANCE, ATIACH CURRINES E, SA, IF ANY, TO ORIGINALS F, 30 AND CHECK RUE A IN UN PRIGINAL AND ALL CÓPIES OES F

SO, IF NO CURRENTS F. SA IS ON FILE, CHECK BOX A 1N. IN ALL DINER CASES, SMID WALINER LE NOS CUNNINE S. F. SA 1S CON FILE EV

CHiCKING

BOR" A 11,1

CRIC), A CURRENT & F. SA IS ONE INAT MAS NOI BEIN CANLELEO BY ENVIDICE OR AUTUMATICALLY BY PRANSIIN OR

FRIDE TIRMINATION

OF INSURANCE.

CALE OF EVENT CHECKED IN MEN I

¡MONiA, DAY, FEAR,

CALE LE NOTICE OF CONVIASION

FELL ILEGE ISE 391 TO EMPLOYEE

(MONIM, DAY, YEAR)

RATE; ON DATE IN NIEM S.

October 27. 196

17a 925. 00 PER ANNUM

I CANUTE THAT THE AROVE MOONRATIÓN 145 BEEN OBTAINIO PRESA,

MIND CORRECTLY REFLECTS-OFFICIAL

#ECORUS,

SAMEO WAS COVEREO BY FELINAL EMPIONEES GROUP QUE INSUHANCE ON INE DATE SHOWN IN ITEM S. ISIGN ORIGINAL ONLY)

1 8 DEC 1963

(parsonal Mignature st durhorized

y olficiall

3. DeFelice

Type name of susherizod agoney offierel

Central Intelligence Agency

(Morna of agoney)

Inpuraace Officer - Alternato

430 De Stre NaW

ana moshington 65 Dee

SEE OTHER SIDE

FOK

INSTRUCTIONS TO EMPLOYING AGENCY

PART I- FILE COSY

---

## Page 3

31 CC: 62

HOEF

D. SERIAL NUMBER

8. HAME. (1AST-518ST-MODLE)

001775

°S. MATURE ON P4E3

SORREL ACTION

RETIRENENT (OPTIONAL!

TO

FUNDS

CHATIONS

DD!

00

CONTACT. DIVISION.

U.S. FIELD

NEW ORLEANS OFFICE

11. POSITION TIME

10 CONTACT

14. CLASSOFICATIOR SCHEDULE (65, 1B. vis.)

18. REMARES

SECRET

(sphen Filled la)

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTIÓN

# TO

$B 10 KV

ISFACTIVE BAYE

%. CATEGONY OF EMPLOYMEMI

10,27

2

REGULAR

3. COSE CENTER NO. GMARGEARE

TB. ESE OR OTMIR LEGAL AUTHORITY

3242 2221 4000

10. LOCATION DE OFFICIAL STATION.

1S. OCCUPATIONAL SERIES

0132.21

NEW ORLEANS, LA.

12 POSITICH MEMBER

0195

TA GRADE AND STEP

15 8

8J CAREER SERVICE DESIGNATION'

OC

18 SALARY OR RATE

17325

19, AC11GR: *9 Eagiay

CODE

Coda

45

10

28. MIE ERPIRES

81.

OFFICE CODING

NUMERIC

SPECIAL

REFERENCE

SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

12. STATION

23, INTEGREE

24. Hagirt

CODE

CODE

Colo

25. DATE OF AIRIN

ВіРМАВНТІС

08.

10. 22100

RETIREMENT DAYA

CODE

31. SEPARALION

HAAA MOAN

32. CORRECTION: CANCELLATION DATA

TYPA

DA,

PR.

28. DATE OF GRADE

DA

18. DATE OF LEI

та.

33 SECURITY

JA. SEX

,C8м

gICA

• NOME

EOD DATA

1S. VET. PRIVEREACE

36. SERV. COMP DAVE

DA

3Y. LONG

COMP. DATE

BHO000

38 CAREER CATEGORT

coor

39.

CocK

FEGLI / HEALTM INSUBANCE

O. MAINER

MALIM INE CODA

10. SOCIAL SECURITY NO.

SAR

WHITH

9ESV

PE mo

PREVIOUS GOVERMMENE SERVICE DATA

O . TO PARVIOUS SEAYICE

• NO NASAR IN SINICE

MAN IN BIRVICE ILESS THAN J YS

TAX IN SERVICE INOGE THAN I YI

48. LEAVE 6A!/ 43.

CODE

SEDERAL TAX DATA

EXACURRO; CODE

I 40 PAB EIRMPTIONS

в8.

PORK BRECUTED

STATE TAX DATA

CoOR

2. 10

SIGNATURE OR OTTER AUTHENTICATION

POSTED

11-2-62 Yu

14-088

1orr888 legm 2:t08306

--

1150

Use Previous

Edition

SaCh

at 10/21 6 3

(When Fled Ian)

---

## Page 4

14-00000

314114

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

I. SERIA RUBBLE

& NAME (LAST-FIRST ANIBOLE)

00: 725

MATURE OR PEASONMEd ACTION

FLTIRENLIT CEPTIONA.

* 18 +

FUNDs

€# 10 %

TO 18

CE 10 CE

TO LEUVE ONE-S 0166081 Or CamOralE

7. COST CENTER NB. CHANBLARLE

3243

222: NUCL

18. 10:A1I0N 08. ONFICIAL S147I

¡# ISE OB OINIO LEGAL AUTHORITY

19. POSITION POTLA

IC EGATALT

16. GIAISIFICATION SCHEDULE (68, 1B, 016)

65

15. OCCEPATIONAL SERIES

0132.21

18. POSITION BUMBLE

3125

16. 6RA0E AND STEP

15 ₫

LO CABLta SERVIÇE DESIGMATION

I8. SALARY OR RATE

17:322

18. REMARKS

SIGNATURE OR OTHER AUTHENTICATION

*=*

Forms

11S0

Uso Provioua

Edition

(4.011

---

## Page 5

'Erecuira lira-sie

2 # CCT 1962

New Urloane 19, calaidas

•An you bring in a clone aigaloen yours di derrice to your

country, I eral do fois your irreada aud co porkera in siahing

you well aod bapung los yo lind the goare aread sued wich

In pañoo tse einse cationa afforta aí sany pasplo to do tisa

important vort al this "goney. You leave mis tie kassledgs

luat Jou have porsesal, eastribuded macà to dus success la

carrying out cu mission Your faishul and loyal support haa

manasrod so to the biga deale and eradinone ol thu l'ederal

May l espress to you my appreciation and artent warsost

Brishoo ua the youre aid.

sacaroly.

(Signed) JOIN A. MOCONE

Joun A. ilefore

Director

Distribution:

U - Addresses

1 - DCI

I - DDCI

1 - DC/LAB/SU

0P/BSD/|

d- Differo

is/ kiarry W. Linzia, Jr.

Originatora

1 - BCB Retiremens.

1 - BCB Reader uitioncur:

(là Vetober 1962)

Sieg

IC: 2N3/55

19 OC5 1952

---

## Page 6

A ACOCORANGE ONE THE PAO ISONESE PUSELE

MENORANDU: DATED

AUGUST

SALARYA

EFFECTIVE

14

ECTOBER

19A2

SERJ.L

001775 82500

DEGN FUNOS OREST SALARY SASST SALARY

130 585410

317025

---

## Page 7

14-00000

CIA ENTERCAL USE ONLY

FILE

CATE

•REPORT OF HONOR AND MERIT AWARDS BOARD

2 October 1962

The Honor rind Merit Wards, Board having considered a recomendation that:

POSITION TITLE

PAISEN GRADE

Chlot, New Crleans Fleld Office

08-15

OFFICE ASSIGNED TO

201100

STATION

New Orlesha

BE AMARDEO;

Intelligence Modal: of Merit

_FOR MERGIC ACTION, ON

OFOR MERITORIOUS ACMIEVEMENT OR SERVICE DURING THE PERIOD

KAPPROVES iNE RECOMMENDNTION

EOISAPPROVES THE

RECOMCNDATION

JAPPROVES. OUT IN LIEU SHEREOF, RECOMMENOS TRE AMARO OF:

CITATION

do heroby awarded the Intelli-

gence Medal of Merit for hla outstanding service to the Central

Intelligence Agency. Ae Chief of the New Orleana Field Office

«ince its Inception in 1947. 1

labored unceasingly in

developing programe which have produced important Information

on a continulng basle.. In hla role ao Agency represantative, he

has been successful in establiahing relatlonshipe which have

furthered the miasion of the Agency and enhanced ite reputation

in the area.

In his role as office chief, he hae provided leader-

ship of the higheat order to bie aesoclates, and leávea behind him

a legacy of achievement in keeping with the beat traditions' of

service to the United States.

(Recommendation approved by DD/I on 11 September 1962)

REASONS FOR DISAPPROVAL OF RECOMMENDED AWARD

APPROVED

Гери

DIRECTOR OF CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE

Mr: 19:2

DATE

SIGNATURE

/s/ Harry W. Little, Jr.

TYPED NAME OF CHAIRMAN, MONCR AND MERIY AMAROS BOARO

HARRY V. LITTLE, JR.

SIGNATURE

/Sol/ Rohort M. Esiner

TYPED WAME OF RECORDER

- ROBERIM. GAYNOR

CIA INTERNAL USE ONLY

44)

---

## Page 8

14-00001

SECRET

REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION

DATE PREPARED

14 septenber 1Y6?

RATIN OF PERSONNEL-ACTION

•. FUROS

CF TO Y

DESIGHATIONS

DDI/00

•Contact Division

U.s. Field

New Orleans Office.

A. EFFECTIVE DATE DECLESTED!

S. CATEGORY OF IMPLOYMENY

-78 68

10

%: CoSt CENTER TO. CHARGi.

A BLE

3242-2221-4000

1O: LOCATION OF OFFiCIAL STATION

Regular

New Orleans, La.

1. POSITIGSTITLE IE ChitRit

Ineatitgence Offteer,

16. CLASSITICATION SCHEDULE (GS, LE, BIC.) 15, OCGUPATIONAL SERIES

GS

0132.21.

18:

POSITION HUMPED

' K° 0195

•1B. CAREER SERVICE DESIGMATION

IB. GRADE AND STEP

i 15-8

TE•SALARY OH HATE

815,8100

12225

18. REMARK:

so Fayroil; Security

Subtea: Is re-empioyable.

FIGMATISE GE REQUESTIOTIAL

¡ Nº. ASHCRAFT"

whier. sogtact Division,

00

SPACE BELOW

FOS

DATE SIGNED

SERVICE APPROVING DATE SIGNED

TASTINGIS

o tr

Fisk

227:

OFFICER

30det62

J. LAROCCUE,

EXCLUSIVE USE

Acting dasisions Dircitor, 00

OF

IMF

OFFICE OF PERSUNNEL

13. 86010 126.21951 1 10! 06 199.

CODE

coal

30 Oct 1962

od.

ra.

27, DAIE GE LEI

ars.

04.

1o lancel

CB.RIE EMP-GES

REFEREN'S

RETIREN MY DETA

cob!

33, SECURITY

220. 46.

134, SER

- 4046

51, 00,0,0

-=9.147

1B. CARELA CATIGURE

CAR/REST

CODE

PROV/TEMP

COrE

ROD DATA

FEN' / 8."0 105.98906

.e...

DU. SOCIAL SECURITY MO.

MEDICS MOTORERE SERVICE daTA

SEDERA: Yan Cala

STa'E rAE DATA

ccor

MD, PARISTATE CODE

BrAp

a forte

•O BEGUICE

SoR 4890

1O SERUICE (LESS THIRS YRSI

1 - *es

B5, POSITIDN SIATROL CERYIFICATION

86. U.P. APPROYAL

DATE APPROVED

1-1-42 X2

FORM

4-62 1152

BASTIONS ROI'D

3, DeM2

SECRET

a est:-642

---

## Page 9

HASIGN EFFECTIVE

SECRET

Carno Dellai Pro

EMPLOYEE NOTICE OF RESIGNATION

_FOO TUA POLLONINO PEASONI.

carne po girai de di pi, int.

Ver 31

303 4. 62

1*,-

HOREInG DAY

DATE SIGMED.

SIGNATURE OF RIPLOVEE

in di!

FORMARO COMUNICATIONS, INCIUDIRE SALAR! GNICAS AÑD NONDS, TO THÈ POLLONIMO ADDRESS (ANADER, SPAPPA, COIS.

Moore Ales

1",

Items 1 thru 7?

and

Items 9 thru 18a)

Item 5

Item 9

INSTRUCTIONS

The iniiiating office should fill in each of the referenced items.

Items 3 ibri T

and 9 thru 18 require Intornatles which pertains onli

to-the

accion requested, and NOT to the current status of the er-

ployee

imless specific

items remain unchanged.

"Category es Imployment" should show one of the following entries:

Regular

Summer

WAE

Part Tise

Detail Out .

Consultant

Tempora®

Detail In

• Military

Tempora2g • Fart Time

"Organiss: ional Designations" should show all levels of organization

pertinent io identifying the location of the position:

Major Concent (Dtrector, Deputy Director, ete.)

Office, laior Staff

Divisien or Stair (subordinate to first line)

Item 11

"Positio title" should reflect the standard atbreviated title given

In

the aost

current edition of the Position Cairol Register or te=

ported en Fort 261, Staffing Corplement Change Authorization.

Iten 183 -

Signature shold be that of the official authorized to suprove for

the Caree: Service to which the employee beloras.

ROUTING - The original only o. this form will be forwarded to the crice

of Personnel

hrough the appropriste Career Service oificial(s).

In the case of requests

Decifled in IB 2'-73-1, which require advance approval ot or notification :

the Ofiice of Securiii

or the Office of the Comptroller, me copy only will te

sent to the Office(s) concerned.

SECRET

---

## Page 10

ta-inden

SECRET

01235

BIOGRAPHIC PROFILE (PART 1) SCD: 25 JUL 1944

A. DATE DA BIOTO O. CONGEVITE COMO. DATE

Cet 1900

18 SAp 1947

Trirled.

NONE SEGNICE

4907

ITHIA STAPUS

Rejectat.

GA ADE

NA

• NA

Tro

BASt 4ID.APT.

Oct 1951"

ACTIVI

DUTY!

CIA

• ##RUBE

108

Field

US

RELEASE" PO

$en.

CAT, 08

Annual

•В 095і ВВMсNT БАНН

9 ul"

2918.

None

@ATe

CARP% D9808

1925-42

Self imployed, Now Orleane, In - Innyer

•1042-45

Milltary

194518 Admintotered Finanolad Inttore

APTI TUDE

None

TEBT DATE

NON-CIA EDUCATION

191 5-20

Loyoln Univ, jew Orleano, La - AB Arta & Selencoe

1920-23

Hurvard Inw School - LLB

1927-24

Printry Collega,

Cambridgo, Eopland - Anellah Iltarnture Resenrch

1924-25

Pulnne Unly. ; New Orleans, In a Ili

FOREICH

lANGUAGE

Nona

19544

1959

S0HE0

FRAININO

ClA Orientation

Mgmt for Contact Div

Sep

1947

Sep

1948

Mar

Jul

1952

Sep

1900

1960

1.0.

LWOP

I.O.- Contact

BONAL

CODE

0132.21

0132.21

0132.21

0132.21

GRADE

P-7

P-8

15

15

480888

34808801

самамодатідж в рясам.

0ố/Contact/Contr/Actg H Mer LAC

CO/Contact Br/Rog Mgr N. O.

0q00/ContactDlyLCh.. 1.0. off

0000/ContactDiv/Ch, New Orleane Off

LOCATION

New

Orleare

PROFILE REVIENED BY

Revieoro 25 Sep 1962 OP/POD/RAB/uns

188.6184

I* REVIETE

VERIFIED

aY

EMPLOYEE

**; 1200 (PART 1) •

1000 (DAR98S SECRET

1|2 Doc 1937

PROFILE

---

## Page 11

01.70

SECRET

Pulled 10)

BIOGRAPHIC PROFILE (PART 2)

DATE OF BIAT

Vet 1900 -

BUNCHANY 0P CAN

ICE OUTBINE AND/ON DIELD HNADBIGAMENT QUESTIONNAIAR

IDENTOTY OF OTNER DOCUMENTS WHICH SHOULD BE, REVICHED ON DETAIL

BO. ADOSTIQNEL INPORMATIDA

Letter of Aypreciation 1948 from AD/Operations prior to Leartag Agency for having

created an effective field office in lean than a year, excellent relations with ellenta

and local Arned Forces Representatives and bigh morale of office.

Commendation 1954 from DD/P. for thorough and expeditious contribution made by IDI

Personnel to urgent need for Intelligence about Custemala.

# 7.

DATE REVICIO

25 Sep 1962

coat 10.

FEB

1200 . (PART 2) **

REVIENIO BY

OP/POD/CAB/hmg

DO PRANS & SECRET

PROFILE

---

## Page 12

SECRET

0 2 MAY 1962

MEMORANDUM FOR:

SUBJECT:

Assistant Director for Operations

Memorandun of Performance

Chief, New Orleans Field Office. contimes

to manage his office in a thoroughly competent and efficient manner.

He is extremely conservative by nature and finde it difficult to

act without the most careful consideration of all factors Involved.

While this approach might be a handicap in some areas it tends to

be an'asset in New Orleans. In spite of this tendency he willingly

and efficiently devotes all his time and energy to the solution of a

problem in an emergency: He represeats the Agency well and maintains

the highest respect in his comminity.

E. M. ASHCRAFT

Chief, Contes: Division

REVIEWING OFFICIAL:

GEORGE G.

Assistant Director for Operations

SECRET

---

## Page 13

qui

SECRET

0.2 MAY 1962

MEVORANDUN FOR:

Aselstant Director for Operations

SUBJECT:

Memorandin of Performance

Chief, New Orleans Field Office continues

to manage his office in a thoroughly competent and efficient manper.

He la extrenely conservative by nature and finds it difficult to

act without the most careful consideration of all factors Involved.

While thie approach might be a handicap in some areas 1t tende to

be an asset in New Orleans.

In spite of this tendency he willingly

and efficiently devotes all his time and energy to the solution of a

problem in an emergency.. He represents the Agency well and maintalas

the higheat sespect In his community.

Midsturaft

E. M. ASHCRAFT

Chief, Contact Division

REVIEWING OFFICIAL:

GEORGE G.

Sun Leary

CARES

Assistant Director fOr Opergitiona

SECRET

.:.

---

## Page 14

21 June 61

Mano for Pile

Subjects Longörity Step Increase

In reviewing tile file under the Security

reinvestigation progran, 1t was noted

3rd isi (as OS-15) vas proposed

that the

to be'made offective

on 19 Sept 60, but that the offectivo date had been

changed by Payroll to show 16 Oct 60. Reason for

the change 1s presumed to be due to LWOP. Form 560

shows 225 hours of lop during the walting period..

If those fijuras are correct, then there was no

"excoss" INOP, since the law provides that a mci-

mum of 240 hours of INOP 1a creditable toward com

pletion of the walting period in the case of IsId.

I called this case to the attention of

c/Payroll, who will review INOP recorda and,

1f roquired, Issue a memorandur to correct the

effective dato of the inat lsI.

(icS

Gene C. Stevens

---

## Page 15

14-00009

SECRET

30 JUN 196%

MEVORANDUM FORs. Assietant Director for Operatione

Memorandun of Performance

I Chief of the New Orleans Field Office,

continuco to manage his office in a thoroughly competent. and

efficient manner.

1o a concervative who cometimes

finda 1t difficult without moat careful and protracted

considoration. of all factors involved to adjust to changen in

methods and objectives particularly those peculiar to clandes-

tino cupport.

While hia conservatica added to hio meticulous

legaliatic approach might be something less than dedimble in

certain arcao it 1a a definito adset 1o New Orleone.

When

called upon in-emergency he willingly and efficiently devotes

his entire time and energy to the solution of the problem

regardless of personal Inconvenience.

represente

the Agency toll in bile area and readily mintains respect Is

the comminity:

Midchirafte

E. M. ASHCRAFT

Chief, Contact Division

REVIEWING OFFICIAL!

3 JUL 1961

1oa18tant Drastor sos operator

11511 illi:

a livine

SECRET

---

## Page 16

SECRET

7022

NEVORANDUM POR: Assistant Drector. for Operations

SUBJECT:

Memorandum of Performance

Chief of the few Orleans Fleld Office,

contlues to manage his office in a thoroughly competent and

etricient maner.

]ia a conservative who sosetimes

finds it aicpicult without most careful and protracted

consideration of all factors lavolved to adjust to changes in

, methods and cojectives particularly those peculiar to clandes-

tine support.

While his conservatisi added to his neticulous

legalistic approach might be something less than desirsble in

certain arees it is a definite asset, in New Orleans.

called upon In emergency he willingly and efficiently devotes.

his entire tine and

enersy to the solution of the problem

regardless c pérsonal inconvenience..

represents

the Agency well in his ared and rendtly mintals respect in

the comminity

Midshiraft

E. M. ASHCRAFT

Chief, Contact Division

REVIEWING OFFICIAL:

Scon

Tanois

George G.

Assistant Director for Operations

8 JUL 1961

SEGRET

---

## Page 17

14-00009

SECRET

(WHE TILLED 19)

O. HAD, BRAIAL Do.

101775

OLD

SALARY

RATE

LAST. EFFECTIVE DATE

ORADE : !

HALANT

GRADE

ABDICHED ORÇAR.

DOLICONT

NEW

SALARY

#TEF

BALARY

FUNDE

V-40

B. ALLOTMENT

RATE

REFRCTIVE DATE

GS

15

9

315•550

00

21

5.9

GS. 15

$15.810

TO BE

COMPLETED

BY

THE OFFICE OF COMPTROLLER

В. СНАСИ ОНЕ

• 10 BIGGER SHOP

IP EXCRIS LWOP, CHICH FOLLOmME:

10. INITIALS OF CLEAN

11. AUDITED BY

[J I LW00 STAPON AT AND DE MAI

1B100

TO BE COMPLETED BY

THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

18. TYPE OF ACTION...

0.п.3, 5. 6.81.

I PAY AOSUSTBINT

served an angregato of

10 Joars in presont, equivalent, or bigher

prade and at tho top of present grade africe

219 430

This 18 the third longevity otop

Increase. •

O% NEST S:

HONGAG TOONTA

560

ASOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIO

EPLACES FOAM S0DG. AND 800.

PAY CHANGE NOTIFICATION

SECRET

OFFICIAL PERSONNEL FOLDER

1960

---

## Page 18

14-00000

d le 1a.

• UN Po.v

Sonios No,

101775

SCD

DESC ten

1 44

No . 8

la Orgonational Oesgraloni

CONTAGI CIVISION

AEL ONLIANS OFFICE

ld Dopt.

"Piald

18 Peninico Tole

Ustid .

Code

INTEL OFF (CON) (CH)

28 Grados & Step

32 Salary Or Pare

23 SD

199

$ 15550

OC

27. Pintura Of Actron

Cose

RETURN TO DUTY

FROM LNOP

(5:)

J1 Orgenisabonal Desgrations

33 Depe • Prold

Dept

ustlo.

Fuzn

39 Grada $ 5iop

34 Polition Tite

39 Solarg Or Bore

Clearance

Coreor Bourd

8 Pos Control

C Clossificalion

Remarks

FORMNO

•959

signature

3. SECRET

(When filled In!

REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION

DAiR FRICARED

60

3, [49a Or.B.riß

53, 'spo

Yo

D:CSC Or'Ontien legot Aüthoeity

50 USCA 403 $

Alto 2u

Mo

Noria o

'5 Pr1

10.80 3

11 FECH

vei.1 Code

No -21

M

A C380D

1º 090

DT3 4, N63

Cont

CURRENT ASSIGNMENT

Cate

15 locution Ol Olt-çual Station

Starior Coulo

2531

NEW DALLANS, LA.

18. Position No

18 Sesea.

0195

75033

Oxcup Series

0132.21

24 Dado Of Groito

129 PSI Dua

PAQ

Tr.

XX/XX/XX

76 Appropriation Plumen

1242 2221

ACTION

28 El Dato

Mo

Dis

de Topo Ol Impioyoo

Censon| 591 S08598r010n Dura

9.|13

60

Regular

PROPOSED ASSICNMENT

Code

52. Recelon Of Olbridl Station

Sidron Coito

2531

"T35. Partion No

75033

T3s. Serro.

13y Occup. Sorias

80 SO

11 Dare Of Crosse

42 PSI Due

Du

Dis

C4/22 148 01115 100

SOURCE OF REQUEST

43 Appropriaron tarcar

Este Appeored.

Contact Division, g0

BORGE CAREN LAIy 35 SEP 1960

Asoistant Director for Operations

7S

CLEARANCES

Date

Clearzace

O Plenamant

9-N 60

Signature

Dart

Approvest 2,

E Continued Q' Je erzo Sude

10.1IUH

SECRET

---

## Page 19

14-00000

SECRET

(lihon|illed In)

BLT: 7 SEPT: 1960:

T. Serial No.

8. Name (Lavinatadio)

101775

Mo.

SCD

8. CSC FAsTE

07/15

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

3. Date Of Birth

4: Ye. La

Do.

22

i Or Ohar Logol Auhority

10. Apnt Alldav. (11. FEeL 118.

S. Sor

:M. 1

ICT

09

6 05-100

13j44

13. 800

Y0в • 1

No.8

Codor

PREVIOUS ASSIGNMENT

14. Organizational Designations.

Codo

115. Location Or Oiticial Stution

DD I CO

CONTACT DIVISION

NEW ORLEANS OFFICE

2531

16. Dep. - Fold 17. Postion ise

Dopt

• 8

I Codo

USild - 4

4

tron

• 6

INTEL DIF (CON (CH)

NEW ORLEANS, LA.

18. Position No.

0195

21. Grude & Stop

89. Saltry Of Rais 23. SD

15 9

$ 15550

0C

24. Dato Or Grado |25. PSI Due

48

Bix

Stution Code

75033

19. Sorv.| 20. Occup Series

GS

0132.21

id Appropriation Numbor

1242 2221

27. Nature Of Action

RETURN TO DUTY

FROM LEAVE WITHOUT FAY

Codo

50

ACTION

88. til. Dato

Mo.

Da..

Ye.

189. Typo Of Employee

09 107

60

REGULAR

PRESENT ASSIGNMENT

Codo

32. Location Of Official Station

Code: 30. Separation Pala

01

131. Organizational Designin

DDI 00

CONTACT DIVISION

NEW ORLEANS OFFICE

33. Dopt. -Fiold 34. Mannar ide

Dept

Codo

151d. #

fran

4

INTELL OFF (CON) (CH)

38. Grade a Stop

39 Salaa OF Rato 40. SD

159

d. Remarks

$ 15550

•OC

Sestion Codo

2531

NEW ORLEANS, LA.

75033

35. Parition No.

36. Sorv. 3T. Occup. Sarios

J195

GS

0132.21

41. Doto Of Grado | 42. PSI Dud

43.

Appropriation Numbor

09, 19, 48

Ng, iS, to 1242 2221

POSTED

44.0 60 18

i MAR 87 115000 :

SECRET

DT

(4)

---

## Page 20

SECRET

(Whiery. Falled Bri

r.rov

UV fo.V

•Sorial No.

Vio UY

UV TO UN

2. Nomo (Lose. Ferse-madle)

REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION

A: Vor: Prol.

DATE PASPAREC

165

Do ;

27!

60

6. CS - ECO.

•Alo:

1775

SCD

De,

als"

10

i22

00

Pt-1

8. CSC Reini 9, ESCOi Orher Legal Authority: MQ Ase Allidav. DI: FEGLI : 02.

No: 3 Code

Yr..

Ves-l Cod

• No

M

LCD

Do

CURRENT ASSIGHMENT

. Code

18. Orgonisarionel Designations

DDI/00

Contact Division

New Orleans Office

BS. Lertrien Ol Offielal Stotice

Station Cod

-Hew Orleans, Id.

Dé. Dopo.- Fiold

17. Position Title

TCode

18. Position No.

119. Sore 20. OscuA Series

Fern :

Intelligence

Officer (Contact) (CE)

al. Grode A.Stos

22. Salory Or Roto

23. SD

15-5 9

$ 14,450

•OC

195

GS

|26. Appropriation Number

6242-2221

0132.21

27. Nature Ol Aerlor

Codo

IBAVE WITHOUT PAY*

THRU CAB (0 SeptGC)

Q. Organisorional Designations

# ACTION

29. EF. Date

29. Typo Of Employee

"SAB"

9 13/160

Regilar

PROPOSED ASSIGNWENT

•Code

32- Locérien Of. Official Station

Codo|30. Separation Dera

Starica Codo

20.34

EJ. Daps.- Flold

134. Posielen Tielo

Bolid:

Code

33. Grodo & 5901

39. Solary Or Rote

140. $D

135. Position No.

34 Sore, 37, Oerup. Sartos

Tal. Dete Of Grode J97. PET Dra

Nig

Do

Du

43. Appoppiation Number

SOURCE OF REQUEST

Tre demontact Disson

C. Reso ie croved By (Signorure AN Tilo)

Datu Approred

1

For Additional Informasion Coll (Namo & Talephomo Exr.)

2271

CLEARANCES

Cloaranço

3. Foreor Boord

B. Pos. Control

C. Clossilication

Farrks #Peroonal ressons.

Signature :

Date

Cloorence

Signoter

Dore

D. Ploco mang

E. Relesse

It la requested

that Mr. Jurse be granted /25 daya of leave

917520 bros yous

il sint bi per

Jar macinen 'viti Contiauad on rovero sido

SECRET

Code.rie

tend

dedeit: t

---

## Page 21

SECRET

firhon filled Ing

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

PAS:

26 AUGUST 1960

1. Serial No.

2. Nomo (Lost-firs. Middlo)

T9I 115

Но.1

ranch.

Yr.

07/151:44

Yes.

Nö : 8

B. CSC Ram. J8. ESC Or Other Legal Authority

Coda

50 USCA AO3.S

7. Vo. Pot 15.30

Вло.

Da.!

Code

10

22 00

5 Ps-11

10Pr0/ 1

10. 2om alter

Do.

11, VEGI, / 12.

Yes-1 Codo

Mo

TCU

140-2

09.

[si

18

10 65. EOD

sho. | Da..

09

1.18

Ye.

147

13. Po

47:

Vos.

¡Codo

No : 2

14: Organizational Dotignations

PREVIOUS ASSIGNMENT

Code

15: Locaton Of Ollicial Sealion

Station. Code

DDI

00

CONTACT DIVISION

NEW ORLEANS: OFFICE

10.

Cops: - Fraid

Dapt - 2

USIld - 4

¡Codo

17. Postion Tile

Erin

• 6

INTEL OFF (CON). (CH)

81. Grade a Stop

29. Salary Or. Role /23. SD

159

$ 15550

•OC

NEW ORLEANS, LA.

18. Position No.

19 Sorrif 20. Occup. Sories

0132.21

24. Dạto Of Grode |25. PSI Duo

86. Appropriation liumber

0242 2221

87. Napuro Ol Acuon

LEAVE WiTHOUT.PAY

(THRU COB 10 SEPT 1960)

Codo

61

31. Organizational Designations

ACTION

Mo. Da." Yr.

189. Type Ol Employoo

808

07 1 29 1 60

REGULAR

PRESENT ASSIGNMENT

Codo

32. Location Ol Official Station

Crata, 30. Separation Duta

70

Station Code

DDI

00

CONTACT DIVISION

NEW ORLEANS OFFICE

33. Dopt - Field

_ 34. Position Inle

Don:

Code

Lislid . 4

tron

38. Grado a 539p|39. Salary Or Rato

INTEL OFF ON. SO H

0159

$d. Remorks

$ 15550

oc

3531

NEW ORLEANS, LA.

75033

136, Sarr. E7. Occup. Sonas

0132.21

- 0195

111. Doro Ol Grado 12. PSI Du Vr.

GS

143. Appropriarien Piumbos

09 / 19 1 48/ Xx: XX I XX| 1242 2221

TRA 8, 1150 /leo

P. 30-60 wr

SECRET

den.

---

## Page 22

IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE PROVISIONS OF PO LO 86-568 AND OCI MEMO DATED

1 AUGUST 1956, SALARY 8S ADJUSTED AS FOLLOWS EFFECTIVE 10 JULY 1960.

NAME

SERIAL ORGN GR-ST

101775 25 31 65-159

OLD SALARY

NEW SALARY

$14+450

515 * 550

194%

. 151

EMMETT DO ECHOLS

DIRECTOR OF PERSONNEL

---

## Page 23

14-00000

10

MENORANDUMN FOR: Assistant Director for Operatione-

SUBJECT:

Memorandún of Performance

1.

Chief of the New Orleans Field Office,

continues to manage bis office most efficiently and to demonstrate

thorough knowledge of his area. His Inherent conservatism and some-

what legalistic approach tend to make 1t difficult for him to accept

change and nethods peculiar to clandestine support without most care.

ful consideration of all the factors involved.

2.

represents the Agency well in his area. His con

servatian is to a degree an asset in New Orleans; it could conceivably

be a handicap elsevhere.

Trashmaft

E. M. ASHCRAFT

Chief, Contact Division

REVIEWING OFFICIAL:

George G

- Lase 20 H'AY 1960

Austriant Mractor for portsona

---

## Page 24

14-00000

CONFIDENTIAL

DUTE 24 P0g 2960

PROT. -

TO

Chief, 00/CD

Director of Security

Director of Personnel

FROM

.: Chief, Communications Security Staff

SUBJECT: Revocation of Cryptographie Clearance -

1. The cryptographic clearance held by Subjest has been revoked under

he provisions of clA Regulation 90-500.

Revocation is effective

— 9 Fab 60

2. Subject is not authorized to have continued custody of, access to,

or otherwise gain further knowledge of staff cryptc raphic material or intorma

tion. Subject has been Informed of this revocatic, has been debriefed concern-

ing cryptographic and related communications security astters,

and has signed

a Debriefing Statement ncknowledging

continuing responslbility for the

of all cryptographic information öbtained during the

protection

tenure of his cryptographic

clearance.

FOR THE CHIER, COMMUNICATIONS:

in Cries, Protective Branch

Distribution:

1 - security Orfice (Debriefing Statement Attached)

1 - Personnel Office (Wing 1-5

Curse Hall)

- OC-S/PROT File

CONFIDENTIAL

3-58 1597b

101

---

## Page 25

14-00000

SECRET

(hen Filled M)

FITNESS REPORT.

LOIT15

SECTION A

GENERALS:

510/22/1900

0s-15

SERVICE DESIGNATION O. OF MICIAL POSITION TITLE.

OC

Intelligence Officer: (Contact)

CAREER STAFF STAÚS

00/cD/New Or leans:

PIPE OF REPORT

"TOP ELLE

TR8а т62,

44-водишами. дариніВик

DECLINED

DEMIRO

ANNUAL

A CHEAT SHALOTER

SE CATE NEPORT DUE MN'OP.

11: REPORTING PERIOO

31: May 1959

"Sopt 58 - Mur 59

To

SPECIAL (Spicily)

SECTION B

EVALUATION OF PERFORMANCE OF SPECIFIC DUTIES

no sin of tho most important specifie duties.

monter in which employee

to an EAste port men i one

räting perlod, Insoi reting number wilch boss describas the

mint supervisory responsibilines MUST he rated'on thei

Consider ONLY éfficeiveness to porformance of shot dusy.

All employees

•óbiliey do, superviso indicato mensor of omplorado superviciod.

- Unsatisfactory

2 • Barely edoquate

3 - Accoptablo

1 • Comperent /5 - Encollent. 6 - Superiòo

7 - Out aronding

SPECiMIC DUT A HO. I'

Management of a donestic field

RATINO.

SPECIFIC'DUTY NO. A

RATING

NO.

office.

6

Obtaining cooperation of son.

goverimental sources in his area.

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. &

Analysis of assigned area for

Intelligence potential.

HA HIMY

но.

SPECIFIC DUTY NO: E

RATING

NO.

6

Liaison with Federal and local

agencies and officiale in his area.

SPECIFIC OUTY NO. 8.

RATING

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. O

RATINO

Planning and carrying out effective

Intelligence collection.

6

Support of other elements of CIA 1n

3

hts ares.

SECTION C

EVALUATION OF OVERALL PERFORMANCE IN CURRENT POSITION

Take inta gecount everything about she employee which intluences hos effectiveness in his current position - porformonco of specilie

duties aroiluctivity, conduction job.

cooperativenóss, portinent perional iraits or hobita, particular limitations or talents.

Based on

pour inaulodge of erployee"s overall performanco

during the rating period, ploco the roting number in the box corresponding to tha

irotement which most occurarely colleces his loval al performonco.

SECTION D

1 - Lease possible dogres

Porformance in many important respeces faila to meet requiremenes.

Performance meets most requiremenis but la defiéient in one de moro important respecia.

Performonco clearly moots. bosic requirements.

Performanco elearly exreods basie requiremenes.

RATING

NO.

5

Partormance in every important raspect is superior.

• . Performance in overy respoct is outstanding.

DESCRIPTION OF THE EMPLOYEE

In the rating boxes below, check (X) the degree to which esch characte. i stie appires so the employee

2 - Limitod degreo

73 • Normal degree 4. Above average degree

75 - Outstanding degrea

CHARACTERISTICS

CABLE SERVEO

GETS TONGS DONE

ACCEPTS RESPONSIBILITIES

CAN MALE DECISIONS ON MIS OWN WHEN NEED ARISES

МОРА ПЛ СОМ ФіРМОШТ ВІЛИО ЗАТЕИ І

THE SMOOTH OPERATION OF MIS OFFICE

ECTIVELY

PE CONSCIOUS

PLE IN ORIGINATINO, MAINTAININO AND DISPOSING OF RECORDS

TORM

Возв

45 CASOLETE PREVIOUS ROITIONS.

SEE SECTION "E" ON REVERSE SIDE

SECRET

{4)

---

## Page 26

SECRET

14 Are Falli Dr.

SECTION E

NARRATIVE DESCRIPTION OF MANNER OF JOB PERFORMANCE

Stress serengthis ond wonenios devorstrated la current postion.

loe improvemon: of his

imork.

Give récommendarións to #s roning? Describo.

sonsbilities Amollo or enslain, it oppiopitor, raringi given In SECTIOMS-B, C, and'D lo provide die bour bes's lor determining

lutwo personneliactions.

subject possesses complete integrity and thorough kneffee & klara.

Ée 18

able to assess the potential of sources and to obtain their full cooperation.

He

reepc red tova de ad not da pact harl when beaty laport of tho

clandesttre services la required.

His conservatian 18, to an extent, as asset 1

his area; it could be undesirable in some other assigments.

SECTION F

DATE

MONTHS EMPLOTEL HAS DEEN

UNUEN MY SUPERTISION

'100

MPLOYEE UNDER MY

CERTIFICATION AND COMMENTS

BY EMPLOYEE

I certify that i have seen Sections A, B, C. D and E of this Report.

SIGNATURE OF ENPLOYER

BY SUPERVISOR

IF THIS HEPORT MAS NOT DUEN SHOWN TO'EMPLOTEE, GIVE RXPLANATION

Subject Is located 10 New Orleans.

IF REPORT IS NOT BEING MADE AT THIS TIME, GIVE REASON.

FEDORT MADE WITHIN LAST DO DAYS

TYPED OR PRINTEO NAME

AND SIONATURE

5. M. Ashcraft

Miashwalt

DATE

OFFICIAL TITLE OF SUPERVISCR

23 Gril 59

Chief, CD/00

BY

REVIEWING OFFICIAL

x

I WOULD HAVE JIVEN IMIS EMPLOYEE ABOUT THE SAME EVALUATION.

WOULO MAVE GIVEN TRIS EMPLOVEE A HIGHER EVALUATION.

WOULD HAVE GIVEN THIS EMPLOTEE A 'LOWER EVALUATION.

I CANNOT JUDGE THESE EVALUATIONS. I AM NOT SUFFICIENTLY FAMILIAR WITN THE EMPLOYEE'S PERPORMANCE.

COMMENTS OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

DATE

28 APR 1959

OFFICIAL TITLE OF REVIONINO OFFICIAL

AD/O

7560722

George G.

Carey

SECRET

---

## Page 27

14-00009

SECRET

WHEN FILLED, INI

AMP SERIAL NO.

101775

NAME

ASSIGNED ORGAN.

, 3.

ALLOTMEN

DDI/CONT

17-40

NEW SALARY RATE

GRADE

STEP

OLD SALARY RATE

SALARY

LAST EXFECTIVE DATE

GRADE

STEP

SALARY

но.

но

EFFECTIVE DATE

ĐA.

va.

GS

15|

5

123,970

109

16

18,210

51

15

IX&Y

REMAAKS

14,450

09

21

58

EMPLOYER HAS SERVED AN ANGREGATE 0F

10 YEARS

IN PRESENT,

EOU IVALENT,

OR HIGHER

GRADE AND AT THE TOP OF PRESENT GRADE SINCE 16 Sep 51.

THIS IS THE FIRST AND

SECOND LONGEVITY STEP INCREASES.

CERTIFICATION

I CERTIFY THAT THE SERVICE AND CONDUCT OF THE ABOVE NAMED EMPLOYEE ARE SATISFACTORY.

IDATE

SIGRATURE CE SUPERA

E. M. ASHCRAFT

OMAR O 560

24 Feb. '59

PERIODIC STEP INCREASE - CERTIFICATION

SECRET

Middleat

PERSONNEL FOLDER 181

L:

---

## Page 28

14-1000

SECRET

(WHEN FILLED IND

SERIAL MO.

MAME

ASSIGHED DAGAM

8. FU8:3

ALLOTMENT

101775

DDI/CONT

V-40

OLD SALARY RATE

7.

NEW SALARY RATE

GRAOK

STEP

SALAKY

• LAST EFFECTIVE DATE

w3.

Sarahok BaTH

GRADE

STEP

SALARY

на.

1, 210

CS

75

5

13,970

109

16

51

lOS

15

18% 7

122, 450

109

21

-58

TO BE COMPLETED BY THE

OFFICE OF THE COMPTROLLER

8, CHECK ONE

NO EXCEXT IWE

8. NUMBER OF HOCAS LHOP

IF EXCESS LWOP, CHECK FOLLOTINE

EN PAT STATUS AY IND OF DUTIES PENIS

10. INITIALS OF CLERK

18. AUDITED BY

1B INOS'STATUS AT END SE TA--48 PURISD

TO SE COMPLETED BY THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

12.

PROJECTED SALARY RATE AND ESFECTIVE DATE

13. REMARKS

GRADE

STEP

SALARY

10.

DA.

YR.

IMPLOYEE RAS SERVED AN AFOREMATS OF 10 TEAR

IN PRESENT, BRUIVALENT, OR HITHER ORADE AND

AT THE TOP OF FRISENT CRANE STACE 16 SEE 51.

1A, AUTHENTICATION

THIS IS THE TIRST AND SECOND LONGEVITT SLOP

IAC 'EASES:

419

560b

000o

0.'S

000

200

200

S0000

PERIODIC STEP INCREASE • AUTHENTICATION :

SECRET p

PERSONNEL FOLDER

terred

---

## Page 29

1958

SECRET

FITNESS REPORT (Partl) PERFORMANCE

FON. MIN

AIVIISTSTRATIVE INFICES

FOR THE SURVIOUR

• трії. і

rate

where

"the"

•trengthe

maknes

under .canlixionsiape

• Consule current

instructions: for

ême dein

report

Balley the!

8 Pep

yieline than report.

evalustion' of rour sebortinate onl dó dranemit

sastem pet to

DEFEREE.

discussion with nia of ad

Fare lol this perore do the.

employer except

you senil the entire

He's me be can ladend for andeil do the neele ol

fresonnel. no later

SECTION

NAME

Treal

!. SERVICE DESIGNATION

OC

3. OFFICE/OIVISION BRANCH OF ASSIGYMENT

00/Contact, Son Oricans

GRADE

DATE REPORT QUE IN OF

G5-15

10.

2. Septenher 1259

TUPE OF REPORT

10/22/00

&-TRICIAL. POSITION TITLE

Intelligence Officer (Contact) (CH)

PERIOD CONFARONS

1H1$ REPORT (Incicairo datos)

222/5 - 219/59

MAD TO NODAGRIMON

(Choir one)

SECTION '8.'

CERTIFICATICH

THE -RATER:

THIS REPORT LENT WAS LE) MAS NOR DEEN SUSAN TO THE INDIVIDUAL RATED.

NOTT

Subject not avallable in Washington area.

CHECH (X) APPROPRIRTE STAPEWENTY,

"route.

SUPERVISOR'S OFFICIAL TITLE

7 Anguert 1923

FOR THE RELIEDINE NIELGIAL:

SL'OSTANTIAL

FORMATION

WHICH

LEAD TO A DETTER UNDEI

STANDING OF

T2 998381

//5%

ill h:

certaly that any suboroneros difference of opinion sirh. the supervesor is cofleceod in she

18220 35

TYPEO DAINS NAVE AND SIGNAT RE OF REVIEWING

secgion.

c.

OFFICIAL TITLE OF ARNICHING OFFICIAL

- 11L GORGE G. CAREY

1D/0

SECTION C.

JOE PERFORMANCE EVALUATION

GENERAL PERFORWAVCE OF ANTIES

DIRECTIONS:

ONLY the proluciaraty

and elbsctionees nich which the

MANIA MIN THERE MAS NEIT&T

his duties durane the carina perso.

COmpArE iIm. ONLY MIth others doine saniler

ari at a simelar level ol

sibility.

Facrors other than productivary mill be anton anto account laser in Section D

respon

COES HOT PERFORN DUTIES ADI'ATELY:

HE IS IRONUPETERY.

BARELY ADEQUATE IN PERFORMIACE, ALTHOUGA ME NAS MAI SPECIFIC GUIDANCE ON TARIM'NG. NE OFTER MAILS TO

5

CARRY OUT RESPONSIBILITIES.

3 ..

ERFORMS MOST OF HIS DUTIES ACCEPTADLVA OCCASICULILY REVEALS SOME AREA OF BERRIES:

INSERT

RATING

*PEREIRUS DUTIES IN A COMPETENT.

FECTIVE NASTEI

3 .

CAROLES QUT MANY EE MIS MESPENSIBILITIES ENCEPTIGNOLLY DELA.

PERFORNS MIS DUTIES IN SUCH AY OUTSTANOIAE MASTER THAT NE, IS EQUALLED

FEW OTHER PERSONS AROUNTO

THE

SUPERVISOR.

COCANS:

REPLACES PRETIO.S

I HOV 95

45 (Part .l) OF FORMS 85 180 230

esitavys

ARE OBSOLETE.

WHICH

SECRET

Neid to

Better

---

## Page 30

SECRET

FIC DUTIES

possibile, stri.

Vino: Jot dirlo son to pertorsina durlarene duties.

ORAL

N AS

ASARES

CUINO LECTURES

DESFLOPS NIS PROGRANS.""

PRETANES. SINATIES

CONLUCTING

SANI YANS

•AVALYINS ANDISTHIAL REFONTS

AI TINO TECHNILAL

REPORTS:

MANACES, FALES

CONDCTINO ETSOAL CIAISON

OFERATES

PADIO

DEBHIRFINO

'SOUNCES

TYP140

COORDINATES "IT OTIRA OnICES

REEPS DONg#

DAIVES TRUCK

TALINO DICTATION

WHITES REALL AFIONS.

MAUNTAINS AIR. CONDITIONINO

SUPEIVISING

NES CORRESPONDENCE

EVAIVATES SICNIPICAACE OF DATA

#. Por som joha, durios may bo broken deios ren- durther il superrosos considers de adrenalle. o e

corbined ley

aind

phone operation, in the caso ol

• endio opérator.

•#INCOMPETENT. IN

THE FEROORURACE OF

THS DUTY

DESCOIPTINE

#OUND

THIS DUTY IA AN DUISTARDIAG MARNER

DANELY ADEQUATA IN

THE PENSDRWANCE OF THIE

IN VAOY FER INDOVIDUALS HOLDING EIN-

RAPIAG

PERFORMS TMIS DUTY ACCEPTALY

*: PERFORMS THIS DUTY AN ARCAS RIEMP-MANMER

1009

ANYONE I AMON IN THE DERSCANANCE OF

THIS DUTY

1r MICH

A FANT MANNER

IMAT ME 1S A DISTINGI ASTRE. ON HIS

100

MARINE OPOSTOSO SUT,

HUMBiR

Obteining the

R8(18G

HUMBER

Mansgement of domestic fleld office

6

sective support o. non- goverment

mrces and contacto 11 his an

6

•ATING

MAXING

Analysis of assigned ares for

NUMBER

Ilafson with Federal and local

Intelligence potential

6

agencies and officials in his arna

ЯРАСАРЛЕ.

DUTY.

xN864908 Me?0

The planning and carrying out of

404 19

Support of othor elemente of CIA

effective intelligence collection

6

1n his arca

3

MAMRATIVE DESCHIPTION DE MANUER OF DOO PESSONUANCE

DIKHE TINS:

barrar serenaths and neokeases.

particulerly senne which alfeee arvelopmens on present poto.

Subjoot possesses.complete Integrity and thorough kowledge of his ares. He has the

ability to caseas the potential of sources and to obtela their full cooperation.

1e Inclinad toward à Legalistie approach which renders him somerkat less than

receptive to new Idean and methods, particularly where understanding support of the

clandestine services 10 required.

This conservation 1a to a degree an asset 1a the

area and the ditler to which be 18 assigned but could be undestrable in some other

SECTION D.

SUITABILITY FOR CURRENT J08 IM OSSAMIZATION

308184

COINCE 89

WATT 0108H

1% P 4 08 tg

A BARFLY ACCERTABLE EMPLOYEE... BELCO AVERAGE BUT MITH AO MANESSES SUFFICIENILY CUTEIRIGINS TO MAR

A SONE EUPLOTES - MAS SONE DUISTANDING STRINGTUS

REQUIREMIRYS DE THE ONGANIZATION

FACELLEO BY ONLY A FÉS IA SUITARILATY

IS PHIS INDIVIDUAL DETTER SUITIO FOR HORA IN SONE OTMER POSITION IN THÉ ORGONIZATIONI

SECRET

---

## Page 31

14-00000

SECRET

‹ahen tillodlay

FITNESS REPORT (Part Il) POTENTIAL

LESTRUCTIONS

POR TIE ANINISTRATIVE OFFICER: Consúle currène inpeructione lor complerina thae ropoer.

MR TUR SITENVISÓR:

This copoil la e pilviliged coocounécarsóri

EahwaH

CiArORDe

merieis; inr

personnel offe

the potenelal

employee Dearie.i

IR IE :NOT.

= hio om

so' tre

rasrdi-emptoyée.

tojbe.complerelionfy

ier mrds oye tas bren ungep your aupo

Thio report de

IOT FOR AT-LEAST 9O DAYS.

f done chen,9o dayo.

milu onl connlere after the 9o dags hos clapsed.

!! thes de the' INITlAL RUOKT on the caplojee, homever..it MusT. be

opplrtedl ant forwarded'lo' thr cir no lirei

dite indicatord in itén d'ol Seétion "F: Brllou.

SECTON "E.

GEMERAL

B0 AR6E.

(Laa

1Maddda).

3. SE

OPPICE/DIVISION' ERANCH OE ASSIGRMENT

00/Contäst/Név (rleang

CS-15

10 .

Mereines

REPOET

SECTION • E.

DATE 'OF

1R PA

10/22/00

OSPICIAL

POSITIQN TITLE

Intelligence Officer (Contsct) (CH)

•. PERIDO COVEREO

915/57 -90/58e19a6re doroay

(Spoclly)

:O: SERVICE DESICNATION

: OC

JUOGEMENT OS THE IPDIVIDUAL BRINO RATED

GRATURE

Angist -20

a F 2.N. AW

Of, SUPERAISOR C.

SUPER

VISOR'g

OFFICOAL TOTLE

TMIS RÉPORT

AAD AOTLD

ANY DIFFERENCE

Chier, Cp/O0

OP 1810%

ATTACHEO MIMO.

(82 58

SECTION G.

Famy Tomao

OFFICIAL

TITLE OF REVILWING OFEICIAL

.GEDRCE. GE CAREY

AD/O

ESTANATE OF POTENTIAL

POTLATIAL

IU ASSUME GREATER PESPONSIOILITIES

DIMOCTIONS:

responiibilities,

fresideriinkothe termeor "rae tro ope esponsibimeny.

employce's potentia!

tO BARUme

kind of responsabllaly encountered ae

various levels in his kind of

work.

EAGNLN

A94N N4OG2L94

PERFONMANCE CAN DE CXPECTEO

ISFACTORY PERFONMANCE CAN

TO'AJJUNE GREATER RESTONSIDILITINS

OUTIES "I THOUT FURTHIA.FRAINING

BYHIS POFGENT LEVE.

THE TES AHO SHOULD BE CONSIOEREO POR CARRY ASSUMPTION OF MIGHER

RATING

HUMDER

RESPONSIBILITIES

DIRICTIONS:

Anawet

thi#

question:

il=s

this

RIHDCY

¿" YES, indicate belas your opinion

SUITAILE

TRAINING.

Indicate your

0010 8On

eapressing your ,opinion

ue tne

satini.in

the

'ACPuBl"

colunn.

эррорбав?

Il based on

op ir

eF BOn

to be a

ing the nunber

ne to nuatel r ineedriauoa

supervisor)

Cã Yes C

abilrty shes person #ll rench' rour

descripti

rating belon

which comes cicseat

yOU!

satang

based on

him

supervise.

note your

al his potentaal, note

the sating in the

"potential"

column.

•

DESCRI@TIVE

RATIMG

MUMABER

ACTUAL

POTEMTIAL

3

HAVE

MO OPINIOR OU MIS SUPERVISORY

POTENTIAL

THIS

SITUATION

BELIEVE INDIVIDUAL

SUPERVISOR IN THIS XINO OF JITUATIOA

BELIEVE

INDIVIDUAL

HOULD BE AN

AVCRAGE SUPERVISOR IN

MEAEELHRI

INDIVIOJAL

BOULD

A STRONG SUPERVISOR

THIS

SITUATION

DESCRIPTIVE SITUATION

GAOUP

A01нo

caluea oroorloue

kinda) masoa

suparrisor)

COMTaCs

fecroaiin

INNRDIAPE

ochrret ne cr ovele cora iena

A BROUO Ol DUPBRVIDODS DNO ODARCO tNe BADIE 108 (Second line auperrasoro)

aaarcr

"' E°CUE"Y

TOwOf,"e SUPERTISOnS, BuICH lO BeSPO@SIRLE O9R M410R

BAdn CEaDAdE

"Itr IMNEDIATE

SUBDSDIMATIS IA NOT PREQUENT

PARR

EDORDINATION

3

PoRM Nº:

45

OPHER (SBRESlY)

(Part 11) 08 F0Ru5 43 140 856

OE TORES PSNIOUSSTIEN SECRET

ARE OBSOLETE.

Potential

---

## Page 32

1d-0d0d

SECRET

92

COMMEATS!

ING POTENTIAL

H8 BT

OFFICE @ PERSONNET

entfrely to the fleld of domestle collection; it la difficult to conceive of such

as gento analgiment, He le eat portly qualtrted to continue ironio present

ase giment.

SECTION

- FUTURE PLANS

i, TRAINING-DRO!

PHARREW' PUR 110:

INDIvIdUAL

No training or experience planned or required except perlodie meeting of Cortect

Division Mold Chiefs.

NOTE

OTHEA PACTORS, INCLUDINE PERSONAL CIRCUMS

•BE TAKEN INTO ACCOUNT IN INDI

IDUAL'S FUTURE ASSIGUMENTS

See Bection G.4. above.

SECTION

1..

DESCRIPTION OF INDIVIDUAL

DIRECTIONS:

Thia

section

provided ds an ser

do descraders the

individuol as you see him on the job.

Interpent

the

the

words. literally.

On

each

the page below are a series

of

of

statement

is a bos under

the

hroding "category.

statements that apply,

in some degree to most people.

To

Read each

and insere in the bos the

category number which bess

atatement

sello hum much the atatement applica to lle person covered by this report.

MOY OBSERVED THIS, MENCE. CAN GIVE NO OPINION AS TO HOW THE DESCRIPTION APPLIES TO THE

CATEGORY NUMBER

APPALES

APPLI

FS

TO THE INDIVIQUAL TO THE LEAST POSSIBLE DEGREE

TO

INOIVIdUAL

TO A LIMITED DEGREE

TO

INDIVIDUAL

ES

TO

INDIVIQUAL

AN AVERAGE DEGREE

INDIVIDUAL

TO

ABOVE

AVERAGE

DEGAtE

DUTSTANDING DEGRE

CATEGORY

STATEMENT

CATEGORY

STATEMENT

3

POINT OR YICE

5

STANDARDS OF

81.

ACCOMPLISHNENS

SIONS MITA ASSOCIAIES

5

4

2.

******

18.

SHORS OGIOINALITY

3

128.

12.

DAITAATIVE

PIER

29.

THe 19H.

•4.

ADMITS MID ERROOS

IA.

BONES BELS UACXRAATISUI

15.

"APOMOS MILL TO SUPER.

85.

DISPLAYS SUDANENE

.

THEN TO SEEN

IBBISPANCE

18.

DOES HIS DO THOUT

STRONG SUPPON!

5

28.

IS SECURITY COMACIOUS

CAN GRE ALGRO DITH PROFES

112.

COMES

3

129. D9 TRADATEL

=.

HAS MEMORY FOR PACTS

8₴.

10.

II8 CBIPACAS1B COB.

SOUCTONI

SET&

TIMES DON!

1*.

THOUGA CLEARLY

5

19.

20.

CAR CORE SITA ENE

5

30.

SECRET

---

## Page 33

101:775

SAME (LABP-FOrBA-HIdElE)

SECRET

Filled Inj

LANGUAGE DATA RECORD

PART I-GENERAL

Fetcher

L'ANGUAGE

-138-39)

185-301

22

1900

HAVE A

INAN DO PRON CANCE

Apr!l

1957

PART 11-LANGUAGE ELEMENTS

SECTICE A.

Remlinia (40)

1. CAN PLAG BENTS ES

• 889 EIFFICULTY, ON A MANIER MATURE DE LO FIFLOS I AN ERMILIAR MITH, USITE THE DIGTIONARN

JULY RARILY.

! CAN READ FENIS EE ORSE GRACES DE DIFFICUNTO, NO A CANERAL MATURE OR IN FITLOS A AN EAVILIAR BITH, USING THE

3.

I CAN

FREQUENTLY.

• CAN READ SIMPLE TENTE, SUNS AS SERGES SPENO, DERSPAPER MEADLINES, ETC.. USING PHE DICTIOGARY FREQUENTEY.

5.

I MAVE NO ACADINE SAPLIT IN "E LANGUAGE.

SECTION B.

Writing (41)

1.

WAITE PORESTAL LETTERS

WRITE FACTUAL ARIEATISE

AND EARISITOR!

1197108e9y 1919

ICTIONA YARDRECAN

2.

I CAN WRITE PERSiTAL

RARELY,

ERRORS.

I CAN

aut in a stait

MATERIAL

LACE MACER WATERFAL

sUCCEss.

USING THE

DICTIONAAY

COSING THE DICTIONAR ATICAL

OCCASIONALLY.

3.

CAN WRITE PERSONAL LETTER

WITH

cca510016-818.

58M1Z41

PIUPLE MATERIAL.

REASONABLE

8tT

OCCASIONALLY.

SO LUNATICAL ERRORS AND EN OBVIOUSLY FOREIGN.

succEss

ANAHARD

CONVEYING MY

1.

I CAN

EMPERE TO SURE WERE MECAN CASE US SECe iN CORE ME ENTEr..

I CANNOT MRITE IN THE IRAGUAGE.

SUCTION C.

→ P'rouncintion (42)

1. MY PRONUOCIATICE 15 DaTiNE.

Z. WHILE NATIVES CAA SETECT D4 ACCEYT IN MY PADAUACIATION THEY HAVE NO DIFFICULTY UNDERSTANDING ME.

3. MY PRUMLNCRATIDN IS CANIPUSÃE FOREIGA, BUT ONLY RARELY CAUSES CIFFICULTY FOR NATIVES TO UNDERSTAMO.

A. MY PROSUACIATION IS PSCASIIRALLO DIFFICULT POR GATIVES

TO, UNDERSTAND.

1 HAVE NO SAILI IN PENA:D:IATICS.

F.89 8:. 444C

8 FEB 58

CONTINLE ON REVERSE SIDE

SECRET

(8- 45)

---

## Page 34

CONTIMUATION OF PART II-LANGUAGE ELEMENTS

SECTION D.

Spenkine (43)

.!:

Me MUSTAD ACCURAtE CARE PRACTICAL ANO SOCIAL SUTRATIONS, A CONVERSE FREELY ANO iDIOMATiCALLY

ALL-FRACTACAL

SEN ASO SOCIALS QUOTAGIONS! CAS COMORROW HOS

IN MOST FIELD!

3.

'GETALONG QUITE SELL IN SITUATIONS OR DAILY LIFE ANO TRAVE AND CAN COMDUCT ROUTINE BUSINESS IN PARTICULAR RIÇIOS

"AMAGE TO SEE ALONG DU THE MOST COMMON SITUATIOMS ON DAILY LUCE AND TRAVEC.

s. i nave no rollero to use the innounce in dr on the deone respecies.

SECTION E.

Understardin's (H)

1'.

UNDERSTAND MOM- TECHAICAL CONVERSATION ON

NOT EVEN MON ECHNIC O DA SURGES: POT ACCO REACE NO ON THE TELEPMORE I UMORASTANO

AND ON

TELEPHONEs

2.

3.

PHONE!

ONDERSTANO

UNDERSTAND MUCH OF

SARCO MUCH CONVERSATION ON ON LES PEDON"T D'AS TIE MEANES: POTS ACCO TO PAGEANO ON THE TRIG

UNDERSTA:O

• HEAR ON

THE

SIMPLEST

RADIO AND AT THE MOVIES. PLAYS.

•'ACE TOCTURE ANO ON THE TELEPMONE I UNDEASTANÓ SOME OF MMAT

5.

8 AM NOY ABLE TO UNDERSTANO TNE SPONEN LANGUAGE.

SEFORE COMTINUING - CHECK PART•11 TO ENSUDE THAT YOU MAVE CIRCLED. ONE NUMBER PER SECTION.

PART III-EXPERIENCE AS TRAASLATOR OR INTERPRETER (45)

I HAVE MAD EXPERIENCE AS A TRANSLATOR.

I HAVE HAO ÉXPERIENCE AS AN INTERPRETER.

3.

BOTH OF THE ABOVE STATEMENTS APPLE.

4. NONE OF THE ABOVE STADEMENIS APPLY.

PART IV-CERTIFICATION

I CERTIFY

THAT THE INFORMATIO

GIVEN ABOVE 1S TRUE AND ACCURATE 1O

THE BEST OF MY SNOBLEDGE

ANO BELIEF.

THIS CERPIFICATION

CCNSTITUTES MY

APPLICATION FOR A MAINTENAACE

AMARO PROVIDED I AN ELIGIBLE UNDER

THE

TERMS OF

NO.

23•185.

PAR.

I UNDERSIANO THAT I

MUSE PASS AM OBJICTIVE LANGUAGE PROFICIENCY TEST DEFORE I

BECOME ELIGIBLE FOR AN AMARO.

AND PHAP IRRESPECTIVE OF

THE

DATE OF TESTING.

ANNUAL MAIATENANCE ADARDS BILL BE

• CUMULATIDE AS

0F

THE

ANNIVERSARY

DATE' OF COMPLETING

THIS FORM.

DATE SIGNED

SIGNATURE

40)

147!

---

## Page 35

9

SECRET

GENERAL SCHEDULE SALARY INCREASE RETROACTIVELY EFFECTIVE

12 JANUARY 1958 AUTHORIZEO BY DO LO 85 - 462 AND DCI

DIRECTIVE• SALARY AS OF IS JUNE 1958 ADJUSTED AS FOLLOWS

NAME

SERIAL

101775

GRADE - STEP

GS-15-5

OLD jALARY

NEW SALARY

$12 • 690

$13,970

GORDON Ma

STEWART

IS! DIRECTOR

DERSONNEL

SECRET

---

## Page 36

14-00000

SECRET

emen Filled Ins.

PERIODIC SUPPLEMENT

PEESONAL HISTORY STATEMENT"

INSTRUCTIONS

THIS DATE

raio for provides the neons ederedo your offic

unformation you dare

furnished preciously.

l'ou

need coopiere

The wedonisation or

18 you

ocessAry for pou lo

1ll1 onl

of there dis

¡les coquiros moro

cosplela corerade thenryon

Even though it duplleates

since you entered on

duty att.

prerioualy reported.

GEMERAL

SECTION I

1. BULL NAME PL

311- Рігов-мідато)

CURRENT ADORESS (NO. SPFRET, CAPY, LORD. SPHI)

PERMANENT ADDRESS (9o., Street, Caly. lone. Statey

6500 Ste Charlea ATe»®

Now Orleans 18, Ino

M10800 1-245

SECTION !I

NAME

6300 Sto Charles AT!.,

No. Orleans 10, Lao

3. STATE.

TERRITORY, FOSSESSION ON COUNTRY IN INICH YOU NOB CLAIN RESTOLNCE

Loulslana

PERSON TO BE NOTIFIED IN CASE OF EMERGENCY

EARLY RESTDING IN U.S.

3. RELATION SNIF

Wife

HOME.

ADPALSS (N0..

Street. Corv. Zone, STaTe, Country),

6500 Sto Charles Ave., New Orleone 18, La.

BUSINESS ADONESS (%O.. SPEARS, EIlY, ZONE, SEASE, COUNTrY). INDICATE NAME• DE FORM ON EMPLOYER, IN APPLICADLE

Hone

MOME

TELEPHONE MUMDER

8. BUSINESS TELEPHONE NUMBRA

Di BUSINESS TELEPHONE ENTENSION

Thinbrook 92485

поля

EMERGENCY. OTHER ELUSE

RELATIVES (SpOuse;

MOPher, Father) MAY. ALSO BE MOTISTED.

IF SUCH NOTIFICATION

DESIRABLE BECAUSE OF NEALIN OR OTHER

ALASONS, PLEASE SO STATE.

none

MARITAL STATUS

SECTION 11!

CHECK

X MARRIED

FURNISH DATE.

PLACE ANO REASUS FOR ALL SEPARATIONS, DIVORCES ON ANMULMENTS

Nevor separatod,

divoruod nor marriage annulled

SEPARATED

Drink!

BILLIAN ENS

191775

= NIVE OF MPLOTS

IS'PLOYEE SERLAL NO.

3-

545122.28

ISSTH-CTIOS'S

SO NOT

BRITEIN

RECORD OF OVERSEAS SERVICE

THIS FURS MUST HE RETURNED

WHETHER YOU HATE HAD OVER.

SEAS SERVICE OR NOT

PLEASE HEAD CAREFULLY Li.

STRUCTIONS ON ACCOMPANTINO

CARD, THEN FILE OUT THIS PORN

'ACCURATELS AS POSSIBLE

221

310

COMPLETED BY EMPLOVES

* YE3

WHERE SERVICE

FROM

TO

WAS l'ENTORMED

PCS - 1

TDY - 2

TENTER

TELETHONE EXT.

227J

SECRET

WHEN FILLED IND

DO NOT FOID.

STAPLE,

SPINDLE,

OR

MUTILATE

DATES

SERVICE AS

REE C846

U. B

OR AGENCY

DO NOT

WRITE IN

ASSASS.

01.nds 253231*

LANTER EI

11.

141.

Territory of

- HawA 1-1-

1 O$ 1 45|10 / 45|2 US Marine CarnaC

IF ANDITIOVIL SEMES IS NILDER CATTE REKE

Housemife

20. EMPLOVER'S OR BUSINESS ADDRESS (NO."

not

employed

AND ASK YOUR ADMINISTRATIVE OPINER NOR SUPREENEVA CARDS

SECRET

"if two employers)

blood be played be tou a country N. Onto

"or

SECTION TUT CONTINUEO TO PAGE 2

SECRET

FORM 4446 usE Prerious 131

1958 dre

A STORI

STATEMENT

---

## Page 37

SECRET.

SECTION 188

CONTINUED EPOH. PAGE 1

DATES OF MILITARY SERVICE OF SPOUSE (TOM-

Sep 1942 - Dee 1945

¿2, BRANCA OF SIRVICT'

Us Marine Corps

DETAILS'

OF OTHER COVERENT SERVICE. VIS. OR FOREICA

CIA, Nêw Ofleans Piold Offico, sept 1947 to date.

#$. +0018988 0194

8P8178

MILITARY SERVICE AFFILIATEO

U. 3.

SECTION IV

RELATIVES DI BLOOD, MARRIAGE OR ADOPTION LIVING

, ABROAD OR WHO ARE NOT U.S. CITIZENS

NAME (L'Ass-Piroe Hiddle)

RELATIONSHIP

D. AGE

Hon®

A. ADDRESS OR COUNTAT. IN MNICH AILATIVE RESIDES.

CITILENSHIP (COUntrY")

B- FACQUENCE OF CONTACT

8. DATE OF LAST CONTACT

T. FULL NAME flaRe-PiesE-Niddio)

AOORESS OR COUNTRY IN WHICH RELATIVE RESIONS

2. • RELATIONSMIS

AGE

B. CITIZENSHIP (COuntry)

FREQUENCY OF CONTACT

7. DATE OF LAST CONTACT

1. FULL NAME (Lane-FarIe-biddle,

2- RELATIONSHIP

D. AGE

4. AODRESS OR COUNTRY IN WHICH RELATIVE RESIDES,

3. CITIZENSHIP (Country.)

B. FREQUENCY OF CONTACT

7. DATE OF LAST CONTACT

1. FULL NANE (LASP-Fire Middlo)

RELATIONSHIP

3.

AGE

A. ADDRESS OR COUNTRY IN WHICH RELATIVE RESIDES

3 CITIZENSMIP (COuntry)

A. FREQUENCY OF CONTACT

D. DATE OF LAST CONTACT

3. SPECIAL REMARKS, IF ANY, CONCERNING THESE RELATIVES

SECTION V

FINANCIAL

STATUS

SALARY"

2.D0 YOU NAVE

ANY FIMANCIAL INTEREST IN, OR OFFICIAL

wITH U.S.

CORPONATIONS OR BUSINESSES MAVING SUBSTANTIAL FOPEIGA

ANSMEREO "YES."

GIVE COMPLETE DETAILS UN A SEPARATE SHEET AND ATTACH IN A SEALED ENVELOPE.

IN OR

IF YOU HAVE

3. DO YOU RECEIVE AN ANNUITY FROM THE UNIDEO SVALES

PENSION. OR COMPENSATION FOR MILITARY

SERNICESTRIGT GO COLUMBIA GOVERNMEO UNUER ANY RETIREMENT ACT.

1. IF YOU NAVE ANSUERED "YES" TO QUESTION I ABOVE, GIVE COMPLETE DETAILS.

I WITMOUT REFERENCE TO YOUR SALARY, STATE OTHER SOURCES OF RÉCURRENT INCOME NOT INDICATED: BY PRECEDING ITENS.

Dividends on stocks, oapital gaine, interest, renta and an annuity.

SECTION

V CONTINUED TO PAGE 2

SECRET

---

## Page 38

•SECRET

SECTION.

"'GUNTINUED' FROM PAGE 2

Hamd: or 18001909150

whitnoy Katiomil Bast

Mationnl 'Arericas Bari

Mationnl: Bunk of Coerce

anteris (Sito Siete: Counter)

Hew: Urloons, Li

400031778

R'IF YOU MAVE

Ares

ANSWIRED

"'AS" TO MASTIN E ABIDA, SIA PARTICULARS,

INCRUDING COURT ANOCATAISI

SECTION 'VI

COUNIRT 0E

CI TI ZENSHIP

011911000

YOU. PAMEN SICOS

PRESENT CITIYLNSHIDS

1. 6148

PARPICULARS

3. DE POU MAVE AMPLILÓ CON VIS.

IODICATE PRESENT STASOS OF YOUR APPLICATIDE iDese papera, elE.)

SECTION VII

EDUCATION

SIMOUE

EDUCATION ASPAINLO

GUIN TEN

1u1600r

ni Denter

4034474

perones Desnad

OR UNIVIHGATY

SUDJICI

BANA ANU LOCATION CE COLLEGE CA INIGRES:"Y

_PATE'S ATTENDID

DECREE

DATE

REC•U

Loyola Univeralty of tho souta posllEng

1915

Harvard Int 50h001

Law

1920

3919

1925

AB

1919

1923

Cambridge Univo, Meland

1923

1924

допе

Tie son

Tulane Unir-rolty Las Sahool

1924

1926

1925

CONMI*i:De AND SPECIALIAR SCHOOLS.

MATES AIREADAD

NAME OF SCHOOL

STUDO CE SPICIALILATIDN

none

CU,JUN828

DAME OF SCHONe

STUR• DE SPECIALILATION

Headguartero uS l'ariro Coma Villtary mw

Oot 1584

Feb 1946

SINER LOUCATIONAL TRAISINO SOT ONGLÉS'SE DENS

SECRET

3

Sercales

TOTAL

HOURS

TOTAL

apout

---

## Page 39

1d-0n0d

CTION

volI

GEOGRAFNIE

1ISPMELOE

ANY PORTICE DIGIONE DR COUNTAIES OR MI

93009

OR#

STAL" THAN

ORGANICATION' ENO

DICELL PITE OF RECONDSE SUSH AS PERRAIN COASTS

RAME OR MESION DA COLTIRY..

Cambridro, Enfo

General only

SECReT

AREA KNOWLEDGE

ANDALTOGE GAINED AS A DESULT

UNGRA COLUME

OF

RICHLEOGE

ETILIES PARROADS.

IRCUS TRUES POLITICAL ARTILLI

INOOLEDGE

DATES OF

BASIDENCE

ere.

DINCE

PRAVEL

STUOY

# $91008°

MENT

782346

=.

TADICATE THE PURPOSE OF VISIT.

RESIOENCE OR TRAVEL FIO CACH OF TNE ARGIONS OR COUNTRICS LISTEO ADOVE

& artonded trinity collopo, Canuridro, for bout nino montha.

ASBOGNMIAT

NAME OF AECION OR COUNTRY

Hone

pons, den

ALGIUNS OR

COUMIRIES OF AMIEN DOU NAVE GAINGO ANDREDGE AS A RESUBT OF ORGANIZATION

DATE: OF

TYPE OF SPICIALIILO NOMICOGE

PRAvEL,

ere.

ANOWLEDGE

ACQUIRED BY

HOOTS

FIELD

ASSIGNMENT ASSIGMENT

TRAIN"

ING

SECTION. IX

TYPING AND STERGRAPHIC SKILLS

2. ВНОД ГНANО(Н.Р.А.

nong

3. STiR MADE SYSII USEO - CHECH 1X1

SPECIATI TINC

OTNER (Spackle)'

INDICATE OMER RUSINESS MACHINES HOMO WHICH YOU HAVE MAD OPIRATINO EXPERULNCE ON TRAINING (COMPOSELOR, SERO-

graph.

Card punch. orc.)

SECTION 8

SPECIAL QUALIFICATIONS

NOICATE AN SPECIAL ON

DUALIFICATICOLO SULTING FROM CAPEZIENCE OR PRAIMING, BMICH MIGHT FIT YOU FOR A PARTICULAR

& EXCULONG ENOME VOO SHEETS RADIO AUCTION SANGE TOU SOTES PELEANO PRODTASIONOU DEVISES? NEC.

REGISTRY Netod' Or lio Bar o° Loulainna. Also Iloonsed to praotice tofore Foderal courte

FINST LICENTURE CEATIFICATE (YOOR Of 88800)

S- LATESY LICIOUROR CERTIFICATE (YERS Of TORMO)

SECRET

---

## Page 40

SECTION X

INDICATT

80728.

FURICATION

novels.

shere ato.

SECRET

Fellates'

CONTIAUED -FROM-PAGE 4

Pon one rare cen

Taquested,

general

Bub.

None

PACICATE ANY CARICES ENTICO YOU MAVE INVENTIO ANO, STATE BETHER OR NOT THEN. ARE PATrONED

11SP ANT PUBLIC SPLARINE AND PUBLIC ArIATIONS

None erept publio speakin; inoident to loçal

prac.10e.

To Me A PARENCE MORONS CONSE DECIDED CATIONS DE SOCIETIES TR AMICH YOU ARE TOO OR

Hone

SECTION XI

OPGAMIZATION WORK EXPERICACE: = SINCE LAST COMPLETION OF A PERSONHER QUALIFICATIONS QUESTIONHAIRE

INCLUSIVE GATES

(Fr009°

and To-y

FRAUr 3.

OFFICETOrISION ARANCE US ASSIGNMENT

Sep 1947. to Daio

08 151

Office of Operationa/ Gantaat Dirta10n/ Hala.

ORSICIAL POSITION TITLE

DESCAIPTION DE

10 (180. 3 WABO)l Chiof, Now Orleans Flold Off100 -

Supervision and dirootion of professioral and olorioal employees. Carrying out

polloy and operationni directivos lssued by hondquartors maintaining lialeon

with other roveronental agonaled. vollooting and reporting pooltive foreign

intolligonoe Information. Appropriate dutios Inaldontal to the above.

INCLUSIVE DATES (FROW- ANd:TO.)

2.

3. DPRICESOIVISION DRANCH OF ASSEGNMENT

NO.

OF EMPLOIRES UNDEA YOUR DIRECI

OFFICIAL

POSATION TITLE

SUPERVISION

DESCRIPTION OF DUTIES

INCLUSIVE DATES (PIOMO and TO-,

NO. OF EMPLOTEES UNDER YOUR DIRECT

SUFERVISIDN

.

DESCRIPTION DE DUTIES

GRADE 3.

OFFICI/DIVISIONIGNANCH DE ASSIINHENT

OFFICIAL POSITION TITLE

D. INCLUSIVE DATES (PRORe aNd TOO)

d.

NO

OF EMPLOTIES UNDER YOUR DIRECT

SUPERYISIS

A. DESCRIPTION I! SUPERS

. 2. GRADI y.

OF TOE DIVISION GRAVEN OF ASSIGNMENT

5.

OFFICIAL

POSITION B;TLE

INCLUSIVE FATES (FIOR. Sd TO-)

No.

EMPLOTIES UNDER YOUR DIMELI

SUPERVISION

A. DESCRIPTION DE DUTIES.

"T.

GRADE TO OFFICE/DIVISIONIAHANCH OF ASSIGANRNT

OFFICIAL POSITION TITLE

(l'so delicional pages al required,

SECRET

---

## Page 41

SECRET

FIlliA lA,

CHICONEA AND OTHER DEPENDENTS.

SECTION XIA

emissa (includine

and adoprod

вов.

10 1

PELAPIOASNIS

alfo

daughter

PRAD OF, BIRTH

1908

1937.

08

DATE COUPLETED

SIGRATURE OF EUPLONEE

SECRET

ADORESS

03U0 'St. CArlos AvO

Mom Urlenna lee lie

ADOTIONAL CONNERE AND/OR CONTINUATION OF PRECEDING TIERS

---

## Page 42

7P.p.

ard1947

for

26Tay/948

Sterait

APPLICISION FOR FEDERAL EMPLOY JENT

ET eN Na 30-308

17864119

4257

ottr

4: 219571.

Fiably the elice mith sihsih

T. Lamo di eaa.+

J. Flaco dl priploraors art!

a Strest aint numine ir di D. ririer.

6300 St. Charles Ave.

New Orleane, La.

Loulaland

UP 1447

Now Orleans, 1

22 Oct - 1900

O Stryle

aaro Mohna

196 du World pou annes aburera assure i, tural.

cN 12 ichentias?...

1b) Wouid you amopt appuintuent il trant-

In Washinstra D. C32......

angwharo in the Urbal Strido?.

outada lhe Unital Statodi...

DJ AspoP.

1) 3-n.031

Nulestiers

DO NOT WHITE IN TIS RICCE

Ire Urant Chall Soyopra Crossion le 12099

Materiall

Trans initer.

[] Sul raitted

O satural

Trast)

OPTION

GRADR

-лаХі::

BATING

AUGM

XALINO

UP 1447

Diant!

[) Faile

*Worght:

202

arient

DO To 0:N

HITIALIN

Yii

Auge 1945

18, is) Il pou mil aucunt appuintpent in costain inulans CNeY, jno accouron

locationd:

New Orleans, Le

X..

x..

(o) Whatsa the lomed entrance saluery reamilavert 3. 8000,00

par pour.

You will nol le conaklered lax positione paring fore

D Constanty

.X..

•aad tho npicenter

Dalea a employait: (MuniA, your)

Tos dantoyaient city and Sinis):

daviaton:

Number ond and al erpiyyes superont Ty rie

Nando and alle d impodius suporriar.

Rodion tor dealina la chango mastogment

__Ta prosent tmo

Ur piran):

PRESENT POSITION

See

appendix "A".

Descriptun of pour wurt:

SP.srtind$

JURE

Presil E 189

10-67990-8

(CONTINUED ON NEST PAGE)

---

## Page 43

1d-0d0d

See appendi* "3"

Frons

To

To Due degeneri er

mang allep Dis praina tare 3.

Duire attendad (rontha yoaro):

Frata:

Raing roverad ai and af this truirung:

(J) Duig antunment alier this training:

Duta of duly grugamore (unifa, yorra).

From:

18, EDUCATION Orcio ticino aggio complate, o :

Marh (a) lho apertoprale tun to indicala salialactury deginia si-

8u) Nome ani Location al Collage or Univerate

Loyola Untreratti, Nl. 18

Harvud Law School, Cambridge

Pulana Uniraralty, N.d. La

41) Liet Yore Chies Undorgio luato Casiojo Sutjosi

Philosophy, Eng: Sclenca

Lav

LAR

Del turate

ATA41S4

Judge Advocate Genoral of Navy!

USMC Institute

ERADINO!

SPEARING CASASTIG

t5-9373

Franch

School and private lessons

sta la gre hare

trassind

England, Tránce,

germany Ttaly, Cas

sica Study and recreation

815674

1375

1950

Jont

Jesuita High School, N3" Orleans. 194

seslloh, Historye

tunitti

Tom

May

dinght

1919

1923

'nda

AB

1025

ILB

1923

1919

1923

1895

init Yin C'.

Cinicato dibrare durrada

Ian and English Litte

speat.-yoar_(1923-1924) at Trinity Gel1,

Getridge Unive Ergland in angeltE

research.

Fras

Itittury Justice

-Feet-Exchango Aotg:

1914

1945

Fit - 50o

D No

Lawyer; Louslan

Continuous•

10065=5.35. 19910 /02di

thi di mo

555-1-813

Froctioing lasyer. in New Orleans for about

fitteen years, mecber New Orleans and

Ionisiana State Bar Associatlone®

19-8 013-8

---

## Page 44

ta-nordes

29: 515"

ue wing 1

Fui NAME

UM

RECENEU

7285t 15 47.

thoom 1631

ENSAR: OS ROBE ADRARIS

"BUSINRO DE QUEA

Judse 7. - Taster?1eld :

Prod N. Orden

Pola Mitney National Bank, NO Lo

Coürt of Appealo,

Nay Court Houad BIdga; No Do Ila

American Bank. BIdg. N. O. La:

Bander

_Judga

Broker.

34.

YES;

NO.

29, Ara pens 3 mese al ha (hadal 50: 904).

3e Mono you any shyalml la it de el out thep w'osternsar.".

-M..

2) In the wnmd "Humerrat lo" un the wurel "'bst

....

Inaotive

37. 5hih1n

Dale ut untry er er. rene ins sort

Date efeepanation or sagier reaca:

b3ua 3:as 870?

leen corysand es

Nadas

799949

runor Imitie veelulana

8 Sept.

1942

Inactive duty

-29-Deco 1945

Serial les det meno, vina greten de masang 01

MeTEN 1D: 9914179354 1823

35 7a8asia

Infamat d 5r'a

F. 1:49-25: 18 sui Co ii luis,

G.. Mc.)

USWOR

3. Hures

013458 Major USICR

TIS QUECTION 110

MarrerITo

IE APPOINTED.

PRIOR

-PARATO CON YOUK LATEST

CASAS DIAS

Thn borra

SUTING

SURMIT PEDOY OF DISCRAROL ARFIFAZATION

JA Do you recame Ir errun trom ta U S.ce D C Grverreont

la se tay person do ysse cor per anton

HANOEY CA MOTOR PIEN

inticio "Tos"' or 'Ma

animos luy Balaranco de in propos ciuina

Tas

NO

37. (a) il you serentin the U

Parlarg es Ponal Bora 19 12-

21 Am you a desbied valorun? ..........

T5d 59952

A T!

г06I T6

TH'S SPACE. FOR USE OF AFPOINTINO O.TICE OSZY

Por durar aton contaro! in the anorore le Ougatón 30 alero del sera 206t

ind by tur puraon with the dischrarge caracale on ---

--- 1S. ----

1' mup annte i6

^--EH192-3219

BL~; 35--Defectivo distant rielon,

--oorrectod.by grass08..

SERNES CATIOS RESTAROS ES PUSISTABLE HY LAS CE

no 276 Trag

...124).

pll"e 4HеdUnh аля местораі∞

Arnas Insido

dand y and bohe! ondas tae e mad taisa

---

## Page 45

1d-0n0d

AFFERDIX "A"

NIS 0T C BiLCHENT

(seo. E1 In: Foru 2a'5p Ses, 26 In USCjO Sti, Tars 57)

The Polloning

16 a corplete necount el my hurlhans and profoasicnal notirlilos'

oince ni retirn dó du crloses, pro in:1-rd, tr tie ia:: of 2014.

I hail ostainel

¡av conee drei larvord in go2s, durg so tie lua of Loutelana.

differa in any arnortont respeet. rie te Corer. Iang: entored Tulane Lnivorsity

Jaw scheal, dr Colotor 19:1.

te sudy joudndern iivig foir subjoeti, Ir the af ernóons

1 sorteo ne a regenreier for de ler tir en irenert, iiiero, toce uni L'aber,

(gleano, IBr

raoted ile louluier.a

Far

0x/71n8t|r9ü

an orte:or Frreida.

ednio ne ile fifa ansoc arey0. 15

Bal ary

van, de ? recull 1l, PINas? fers

foeg on de buránoce videl: I

orfánntes, such foco bere terir:

On Titters CASTET.

ed by re'e': es the flin. sti tle

01 714--2:4896

the STICUr

{327

: 5901, Cong

aral1 honh which lad

to oper g ipurt loportment,

salary

có:d00.00 for your. • erec

Por yenry retirait. In 9:00 4ra i.ni coeldes

orer tio

ser isre de dermant en ne rater

ni py commiring end turcirr in, et &

fetod

oldetite 71:169

18:904.81

DIS

taetoe: cet) 3p

cinien, aurandeterine portes and herdiirg

accounts, imoriirg tio

recalveritiis.

Ir:

irtl the discrunt depprim

difficuties,

"en the pratention ni

over ly de Interetate nruc ! ira

ary of thr cireers of de Tin

Iriernante renly ned emile hor ra

Dont ar: tro 10l30906 0f 9le 1.901

advarer int, en y rabirned irry de.

TA trE Pail o: 1931 I eCRi:

on cane" sto: 190.9385

"о the cre

bo

patares.

prOTeC 12I02616189 11:04050

re.

17p-476.

sor releors Can" E Trin Co, rot Inte

remonature:

The aristo lant dor telet

nd le paloure to iore mo nutteral by

tho enviror.

neith tee tiTy intile Frecpee? tit

1i50t mon lo-kicet e soviroletter

to

strichs cotiranis!

rale iso opsT

cor: o:at1on in ils eurly port at 1502.

boon ractirire las terolles siten Eisdistiono and vere lecie iná quire sue ocea, ley

Sha: er 6011:40

ciinles et ile fire of

Dostedt. l¡erra: é turke. Vor de nest five d8 Cmrad in 1a CoNra Citil

precilie of in in ail Citys Sinne no Fuscial Coule.

the illinieg hani oring doo t0 iita Coopide, Mire O1

131:1:

oi t'e loon del'"

papelsg

lidivinues.

the cole maia ce civil coronio mi rividu iractices :te.

proporaion a liendinge, in errierer vitreuses, arrourtindilration,

erruin ersas in tio ineton ei sitellais courtop enciaire licens Meineterare

office: er ho Coral Part aut?''r,

during 11:4 period turios lopen fior ai espi inneard eritera.

Ferenlerl 4i +0100eler

10450*2230

mler died, icent a eemiderable entato. I mù nurá

éxoeuter in ter pall, erig cres y routi,

---

## Page 46

APFENDIX. "A"

the outate, trendforing the securition and vorting out suce rather complioated

taxa' len rettere.

I hac decided, ville

In cervico, tret I did rot munt to roturn to active les.

practino. the clionto I ten hid tofore to war vore hairi? adequately served by other

attornoys, ard 1t.

wold here meant surtine sil ovor again fron scratch. I did not

want to do that, 80 I bogan lookirc for a busineso in which & oculd Invest enpital

and jy sorrieos, disturally, lhru lourd gulto a for, bist nows, an got, union mooto

ey requirementas

Irm a rether or palouri nt Dirocters of the folling corpoieilias:

The datinnil servico i hairulina does

te cruist revort

ing businessy to Con1ll Foslty Coo,

of sto louda, lico,

i femily scal estato comperrys

The Laustusle Moul iBute Coopitu,, Df Son irliunal Mi, Lirielo Soricer, Ince, =

oopiny chich seru of my ansociatoa

and I orgaised acusatly to operale

"andorotted"

in this territory.

Jinge been notivé in cino buttora, netino or ten saptain in drivon of 110

Camunity Chorty and have taleu paie in drives ly tie isi Croesy dir in: tuberculose

• Solaty, tho Canear Icclobig eto, It a merter of the soard of the Children'd Buroeu,

a Cheat agoney, ane a murier oi lie finnice concities.

---

## Page 47

AFFENDIX "E"

UNITAY SOVIE

(500. 16. In Tors 20058 See. 18 In UNiSE Std. Form 57)

In thie gpring of 1946 thu per care protty gloão to dow Crleano. itore vore aub

marines in

pie Gulf,

tarkero were boing torpedond as tley lore the sivor, and tlo

hospitals vere

filled wit horribly buined serter. I vas analoud to do miat I could

but I felt prat at my aso thoro mia ilttlo lope of taline on active purt. I beoure i

Alt futo pardong

and huipe doll sore ter Fondag rin: i dought thai vau about all I.

mould he mbie to do.

Then the l'arino Corro caco out with as arousenent tiet contasti no vere cren

In nolation Intolllionce do ser up to 45 youre of a'e.I san the kocruiting offloor,

"ashingter. ou busseus I ooh: tu lative Corps londquartery and Inolid p

upColcur trifer, shoe I Mad lans ins

her Crore,

reerrained that irintion Intoll: pence mas tilod up, but alrior that he

would li plin lo tavore in the iocrultirs DIfirion, ani trut I alph tricoter to

Avlation IPollIgence lator on. 1 mo delletter to cot into the larino Corpo, and

accouted a carisica

46C004919 669 Ger.re 1.81.

Aftir an incootrinatien course at Guantico, Yao, I sis orcored to sun Antorlo,

Texop an unrelent recruitler effice. l russince third for tiroe contrar duroting

noat of my tiro to tho Strict cries.

Ir.

104r, the derano Corpig

Thiel hod, order to that tine, toon an

exclusivaly clinter cronicationg noo place

indor to Soloctive condes Syateng

ond larina Corpo lioniquariura ¿colice to failos de. esc of the dary and arpolae

a larino ofricer do ildon to cooi sudio incoctire carico cocaguartoro. i des ene

of those appoiriod, and nas orderod to ruleidi, tons ou li éliary 1943.

The

pOAl At Maloin: taà 0i0 có loco Iportancs locaiso of tho 1arz0 lariro Corpo

hases al Nor iivor,

Varines poro in traininão

st ahleà coratriotian ad cuintalrance prosraco

Involvine sororal tundrod sillions of dolice mic in operation. It tic try cuty to

supervise the induction as mii voiù Carolina Silentes tho core nscienco to tie

Larine CornS ihrOuCh ta SOleDiVO JaITiCS SUalE, ENd lO FOrrOWING 100 TarOUN

lorino Corps installations In their doslings anc cloputes Fith local draft Soards

concerning

tho dutcocont so alost rivo tiouses elritics eployoes.

In eiditics, I toch an earive part in the aucicis ration ol ile Sclocilto

Service Hesisuartore in Initish mo troughout the otste, intorvioning torictruata,

thoir explovers erd dependento, devsoar, Local mou a poni bourdo,

setting up replaeo

mant schodudes for variore isuicirics und prodirs co die moria o: Lio: oleven

thousand eprodis.

The mort vas interortiry und prcibiiro, and lusic in RaJedel me certainly

"good duty", but I hic seror lout my route

for orirseas duiy ari redo tho arterpte

to transfer to Atlarica, toth of dli.! sire

unsciersiti, then, 18. Ger emics 1944 I

teard the Marino DivisIons orirsons mie beclo lo nec of legui Cfilcere, Md I

Immodistery eprltos for trinotes. I mus artiere to loadcueuro for trioctrination,

ard, aster a in or dire in die ortico es ile mucco sarcerto Cordil el the lary, I

mas mere dn crep loitune in jebruat 1 15 for fuller trainingo IN Apria 1045 I sailod

Pron Sor Propelsco, ard ir l'ay I Joined 1lo jourth ¡sriro Liviadon, 11001 Lariro

Torco, inolize, au leui, aù DIvicica leral Cflerr. i contirued in thet post until

the mar anded and I preeurod a trunofer to the insetira 110t.

a capina livinion Cousieto ni sproxiretely lIpX'C men. the Divlison 10yr

officer is derostly roomarible to the Corrending Coneral for the suriniairation os

milita: bustice thraowd the enmend, and smerisos the work and fincings of 8i1

Corersi, ¿prary and lord Courta, no sa'? as d'ose at all Bonda of Investicution

and Couri: el "heuds. to adrino: tho cereadin: Parmal or tho action to lo talon

as Convero're Authority or Inodiate Surrier in Comard. In addition !: sitleee tle

Comas:" Funiral aid Chie? O" Clull wol? leo Matare ariaine out of contaot tir

milves, mit civiliur mi rilitery author::los and with tle osnore o. iraicira des

---

## Page 48

AFFENDIX "B"

usod sy the troops. toreovor, to ccto us leval fortotance Of icor to the Dirloden,

which Involvod, durins my tern of office, the givine of lopul advieo and service

to alout elate huröred Indireunic.

I returned to the United Stateo on 25 Ootober 1945, and comploted my torrinal

leave

on 10 Docomber 1945°

Durine my tors ot service ry superiore rendered reperte on my fitness each

ninots dryn. All o! thore reperto vere favoraule, oi rasy of thee contained ess

dations. I tra pranolod to Lalos in ingust 3 6ã0 to reta Srambie 1843e NIL I lola

• pormanent cormianion as lajor in tho ionerve. ly file ructor 1e

ii: ?

---

## Page 49

SECRET

earer, railed in,

FITNESS REPORT (Part I) PERFORMANCE

INSTRUCTIONS:

FOR DUE AUPIISESTNATIVE OFFICER Consult curtent

instructions for

enapilet ing

this report:

FIX THE SUREAViS This ¿eport

• Po helm

conluation of.rour

meter virale and to ternamit

thly rumiust ion

to your

supertitor

rate where

hie?

officials:

you inform the suborslo

strenuths

and

of

policy

help-

•you

prep

with him of his

show last tof

the.

employce

under conlition:

a n Poeti

the, it

a18.

it i

recornerer that

you rest the entire

encept

form belore

employ

it must

completed ped

completing

forwarled to the

Office of

Personnel nin

SECTION

MAME

•the ilate andicated

item A: of. Section

belee.

GENERAL

(riese)

(Middle)

DATE OF BIRTH

22 Oct 1900-

3. OFFICECOIVISION BRANCH. OF ASSIGNUEST

S.- SE%

N

TE: OFSICTAL POSITION TITLE

Operation /contact be orleans ostice

IO (Contact) (Cb)

•8. ¡DATE NIPORT DUE IN CE

•. PERIOD COVERED BY THIS RIFORT (ENCINI

GS-15

10.

TYPE

REPORT

9 September 1951

9/9/56 - 9/8/57

(Cheet one)

SERVICE, DESIGHATION

• OC

daress.

SECTION D.

CERTIFICATION

THE RATER:

THIS REPORT I NAS LESS MAS NOT BETA SMORN TO THE IMOTVIDUAL RATED, IS NOT SHOWN, EXPLAIN WAY

NOT:

Subject 18 statfoned in Loulstana.

CHECK (X) AAPAOPRIATE

STATINENTS:

14988

МаДОнімо

Prached

109989409810

IMDIVIDUAI

HH00% H08

DECAUSE (Specify)'

DISCUSSIO

THIS DATE

c.

31

FOR

Oit 57

THE REVIERING

OFFICIAL

FORMATION.

PRINTED DANE AND SIGNATURE OF SUPERVISOR D.

SUPERVISSA+S OFFICIAL TITLE

Mt. R. Mo Ashcraft

OPINION WITM THE

Chief, Contact DivisIon

ANY

OTHER IN-

THIS REPORT.

DATE

18-1-57

Posied Pos. Carticl

Reviewed by Flic

Rect 111-15?

tracto ame

I certily that any substantind differ.

the supervisor is inflected in the abore section.

IMIS DATE

3і 1157 5в00.

олі)

GNATURE OF REVIEWING TO.

OFFICIAL TITLE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

George Go Carey Assistaat Director for

SECTION C.

JOB PERFORHANCE EVALUATION

Operations

RATING DO GENERAL PERFORUASCE OF DUTIES

DIRFCTIONS:

Consider ONLY the productisery and

his duties during the

sibality,

rating perial.

5

INSERT

RATING

TIME AH

DOES A FOUR ES ARCATA MUCH ECOSPERE SPECIFIC GUIDANCE DO TRAIMING, HE OFTEN FAILS TO

18 PERFORMANCE.

WET.

MOST DE HIS DUTIES ACCEPTABLY, OCCASIONALLY REVEALS SOME AREA DE MEANNESS.

PERFORMS DUTIES

IS A COUPETENT.

EFFECTIVE MANNER.

1P899944.

CARRUES DUT MASTARDING AUSPOSHAY HE'S FOCATIO BY POOPHER PERSONS NOWA TO

PERFORMS MIS DUTIES lA SUÇO 18 OUTSTANDING MAYER PHAT HE IS EQUALIED

SUPERVISOR..

OOHMENTS:

• NOV 55

• 45 (Part 1) or

TANS PEND AWAS SECRET

ARE DESOLETE

Performance

(d)

---

## Page 50

SECRET

2. RATING) -04 PERTIGNIACE ON

SFICIFICIOUTIES

DIRFCTIONS:'

=.

State, an -the

spairs

below. up

Place "the rose imperant first.

In not inclute

Rate pirformaice

'For.

who

supervisors:

on

rauh

abilaly

apreiler duty considerina 0y1t.r

do sit of the more imor do hereternat ducer

tri supervise

will almayo bé eateil ao.

fic duty (do not rato as nuporridora taoeo

Y1U8

evel

of

shen

possible, the individual beinel insed

•paperformina the race ituty at a

indivadunta

responsibility.

wàth: the

same

job, fille may be performitagilierent die

il so, rose phem on different.

đut i

Pamp lee or the kind of duedes that mishe be insef tale

CONDUCIS INTERRIGATION$

• CRETING SEMINARS"

AVALYERS INDUSTRIAL REFORTS

TRRVSLATES GERMAY

CANICTINO EXTERNAL LIAISON

COORDINATES WITH OTHER OFFICES

WAINTAINS AIR CONDITIONING

'CORRESPONDENCE

urther if superviser considers de elvisable, cie..

SIGWIFICAYCE OF DATA

onbaned key

INCOUPETENT

IN

THE.

BARELY ADEQUATE

PERFORMANCE

05

THIS

DUTY

pufr

AN DUISTANDING MAYHER

IN ' THE PERFORMANCE OF

THIS

THIS

FOURO IN VERY FEW INDIVIDUALS NOLDING SINI.

DE.S.b8D1YD2

RATING

J00$

$ .

PERTORUS THIS DUTY ACCEPTADLY

EXCELS

ANTONE I KNOW IN THE PERFORMANCE OF.

NUMBER

PERFORMS THIS DUTY

IN A COMPETENT MANNER:

THIS DUTY

PERFORMS

THIS

DuTy

IN

SUCH

vANNER

THAT HE IS A DISTINCT ASSET

1475

ОФС

RATING RECTA

• C DUrr MU. 4

NUMHEN

Obtaining the

RATING

effective support of non-governiental

'NUMBER!

Management of domestic fleld office

6

sources and contacts in his area

6

40.

MATING

Analysis of assigned ares for

MUNIRER

Latsch With Federal and local agenciest woes

Intelligence potential

and officials in his area

The planning and carrying out of

nana Support of other elements of CIA

effective intelligence collection

1n bie area

NARRATIVE DESCHIPTION OF MANNER DA JOB PERFORMANCE

DIRECTIONS:' Stress strengths ond weaknesses,

particularly those which affect development on present job.

Complete Integrity; knowledge of area, familiarity with source potentials and attitudes,

close cooperation of non-governmental sources at high level; loyalt

Somewhat Inclined to take legalistic approsch to relationships with other

elements of CIA and other IAC local representatives, with conseguent lose of flexibility

SECTION D.

SUITABILITY FOR CURRENT JOB IN ORGANIZATION

DIRECTIONS:

Take

Mege

personal charactoristics or habite,

paro him with

others

doing similnr work of about the some level.

DEFIMITELY UNSUITABLE • ME SHOULD BE SEPARATED

OF

SUITABILITY,, WOULD NOT HAVE ACCEPTED HIM IF I HAD

BARELY

PARAPHES SCPARATBON

CEPTABLE EMPLOPEE... BELOM AVERAGE DUT MITM NO HEARNESSES SUFFICIENTLY OUTSTANDING TO AI

OF THE SAVE SUITADILITY AS MOST PEOPLE I RCY 1Y THE ORGALIZATION

A FINE IMPLOYEE • HAS SOVE OUISTANDING STREANINS

USUSUALLY

STRONG

IN TERMS OF

SUITABILITY

THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE

EXCELLED

ORGANIZATION

B7 OMETR

FOR WORK IN THE ORGANIZATION

THIS INDIVIDUAL BETTER SUITED FOR MORK IN SOME OTNER POSITION IN THE ORGAMIZATIONE

EXPLAIN

FULLY:

+0.

IF DES.

SECRET

---

## Page 51

SECRET

FITNESS REPORT (Part Il); POTENTIAL

ONSTRUCTIONS

PIE THE ANINESTRATANE OPTICER: Coraule cupree instruceions for complerang this repore,

FOR THE SUPERVISOR:

ment', and

personnel, officaals concernina-

all ror tama dead comet at on to your s herdered

and lo appioppinte, career

poseneidli of the

1e in. NOT

ro. be

shom do the

¡ated employee.

-It

80.bp

nened. that you

read;the

entire ieport belore.congleting

ony. question.

Mids report. is

completed only after.chrzemployer has been:

under your supervision

AN AT. LEAST 90 DAYS.: Il dese

than 90 days.

hold

anil complete

she do daga han claosed.

INITLA REUKT. or

conpleted mil formardel so she ll' no later. than 90 days

after

the

employee.

Boweyor.rie: MUST be

ine que done andreared in itera of section ip below

SECTION

E.

GEMERAL

1 MAME

DATE OF

SEX,

SARVICE- DESIGRATIO

22 Oct 1900

UPriCE/OPISTON/ BRANCH' JF ASSIGNUENT

NEFICIAL. POSITION-POTLE.

Operations/Contact/New Orleans 00f1ce

TO (Contact)

D. DÄTE REPORT QUE IN OP

PERIOO COVERED

"BY THIS REPORT (IncTuBro daleo).

GS-15

10.,

2 September 1957

219/56 - 9/8/57

0F

REPORT

(Choctione)

SECTION

•THIS DATE

31 00t 57

FOR THE REVIE*L

THIS DATE

31 0048-5009

SECTION

Gi

_CERTIFICATION

CRATEY THAT THIS REPORT ALPRISENTS MY BEST

mache

JOGEMENT OF THL INDIVIDUAL

BEING RATEO

TRA TURE

oF

SUPER dISOR C. SUPERVISOR'g

OPFICIAL TITLE

THIS HEPORT AND NOTTO

AND SIGHATURE OF REVILING

BE INION. IN ATTACHIO

TITLE OF REVILVING OFFICIAS

ESTIMATE OF POTENTIAL

Operations

TO ASSUME

SPONSIBILITIES

DIRECTIONS:

Considering others

arade and

responsibilitier.

t+ rms

• 1

the

# 8804

dope of ensigment,

rate the

mployee a potentáo

to natund RrealeI

rasponsibility encountered it the various levela in his kind

mork.

BAM: Att

2

READY

ALREADI

Mad

WHICH

AY

ACTORY PERFORMANCE CAN DE ENFECTED

SATISTACTONY

PERFORMANCE CAN

DS MORE

CAN HE TRAINEO TO

CAPECTED

ASSURE GREATER MESPONSIBILITIES

ASSUNING GREATER

ESPONSIBILATIES

DUTIES BITHOUT FURTHER TRAINING

ReSrUNJ101&:1149 14A4

EXPECTED AT MAS PRESENT LEVEL

#HO

1$

ONE

0F

THE DEW RHO SUOULO NE CONSIDEREO ANA FARLY ASSUMPPION OF HIGHER

NUMBER

DIRECTIONS:

Answer

i • YES,

this

question:

iles this person

the

to ho a superviior?

(8O Yes No

If your

indiento belon pous opinion or guess of the level

of supervisory ability this person

will reach AFTE

SUITABLE TRAINING.

Indicate your opanion

by placing the number

of the descriptive coting below which

comes closes?

approprdate column.

1l your rating is based on observing lon

rating in

the

"actual" column.

based-on opanion

of his potential, note

the

ratine an the

"sotenthal'

note your

column.

DESCRIPTIVE

на 1 8 HEp

NUMBER

ACTUAL

POTENTIAL

OPINIOY ON HIS SUPIRVISOR

THIS SITUATION

INDIYIOUAL

WOULD BE

A HEAR SUPERVISOR IN THIS MIND OF

BELIEVE INDIVIDUAL

SITUATION

WOULD BE AN

AVAHAGE SUPERVISOR IN

THIS MINO OF

S, QUATION

DELAEWE INDINI DUAL

WOULD DE A STHONG SUPERVISOR IN THIS SITUATION

DESCRIPTIVE SITUATION

lochmarions or professional spe

3

iDlasts of various

CONTACY

3

GROUP DI SUOSAVIDONS DNA DIENCY PAE BASIC SOB (SECOnd lenD SUperEdOrA)

Parol)

•NIN CONIACY DOTH INNADIATE

3

HOT ANNOUNS

AMITE IMMEDIATE SNOOTOGATES.

ACTIVITANS

CAREFUL

600+DIATION

3

B-CHINA801498 BUBORDITS

3

REPLACES PREVIOUS EDITIONS

$ 804"99 45 (Par$ (1) OF FORMS 48 AXO 45A MICH

SECRET

ARE ONSOLETE.

Potential

148

---

## Page 52

1d-0d0d

SECRET

ATE NUMBER OF MONTHS PAE GETTi PUT ONCE DAS 841

4. СВИНЕНТВ СОМСЕРЧУВО РОТРИТІВЬ

seas position.

SECTION M.:

FUTURE PLANS

TRAIMINO ON OTNER-DEVELOFMENTAL EXPERIENCE PLANAID FOR

• partier rene o de do/o flad a conaldered necessary, vill the exception

NOTE OTHER FACTORS.

INCLUDING PERSONAL GI

See Section G(4) above.

ACCOUNT

SECTION IR

DESCRIPTION OF INDIVIDUAL

DIRECTIONS:

This

section la provides as an aid to describing the imlividual ne you see him or che pot.

the

morde

literally.

Interpret

of

the

page bolow.ard.a

series

slatesents thet apply in ane degree to most. poople.

the left

Pach

itatement 'is a

bos unfer

the heading "category.

Read each stairsient

and innert in she box the

CateROrY "umber,

which. beat tells how much

the seatedent applies

so the person coveral by this report

MAVE MOP OBSERVED PHISA MENCE CAR GIVE DO OPINION AS TO MON IME

DESCRIPTION ANPLINE PO THE

IP DIVIDUAL

APPLYES TO THE INDIVIDUAL TO THE LEAST POSSIBLE DEGRER

CATEGORY NUMBER

APPLIES TO INDIVIOUAL

TO A LIMITRU DEGREE

APPLIES TO PROSOLAURL

TERMANE DECREE

APPLIES TO INDIVIOUAL

To

ABOVE AVERAGE DEGREE

APPLIES TO INOIVIDUAL

OUTSTANDING DEGREE

CATEGORY

STATEMENT

CATEGORY

STATEMENT

CAFEARY

STATENENT

3

ADLE

5

18.

5

CA*

• eN

MAN& DACISIONE

ON MI.

*HEM NEED

A RISES

28.

18.

5

19.

ACCEPTS

3.

83.

5

3

14.

A20118 H18 G8BAN9

118.

TAJUES СОМАТВУ

19.

5

5:

RESPOROS DELA tO DUPEA-

+18108

23.

4H44

idg

16.

DOES HIS NOR BITHOU

5

118.

3

+03E8

* BOAL808

1H7M79609:094

_3

183.

HAS SHUDAY

80 A

BACTE

1$

+B$8&88ET

5

BE88 THINN% DOSA

18.

4

÷38.

10.

13o.

CAN COPE DATN BOREGENCE

AMAST

"1 tr

OABOLE88

80058 V8X6 V9D8A P88B9USI

DISAGATA SUBBENE:

i s

VARDATOLE

GR1TIC1BIDGOH

SPRUCTIVE

90009 898

HIS DENOCE

00r800612100

SECRET

---

## Page 53

14-00000

SECRET

FITNESS REPORT (PartI) PERFÖRMANCE

MSTEUCTIDIS

EN ME APINISTHATIVR OFICie: Consult ruggent anctructers for comples line this report.

PIN THE SIOTEVES:

Mile erport

you paarree your evolution of rout subordinate

Anil to

thie con luation loi pour:

Organsgallon polloy, cerars that you

serenaths

You

foes " held

iyou. prop,

до Бок.

discussion pith

nodage, that giou

shoe Part lof

this periort

lo the

under

carmended: that

penploye+.

you tra

the

fore beloro completing

Personnel

on,

emil oyce.

oral formereal. do the nilace ol

of liertlon

belon.

SECTION

OF, BIAT

22 0ct 1900

OFFICE DIVISION ANARCH OF ASSTONWENT

TE. OFFICIAO POSITION TITLE

Operations/contact/New Orleana OrPice

IO (Contact)

REPORT. DUE IN OP

PERINO EDUENED BY

IMID REPORT (laidusivo dales)

GS-15

9 September 1956

9/9/55 - 9/8/56

FUSE OF REPORT

19. 192

(ChoCA.

ang)

SORcIAL (Spocdly)

AVICA DESIGNATION

SECTION B.

CEETIFICATION

1. .608

THE RAYER.

THIS REPORT LET HAS CY NAS NOT PILE THOMA TO THE LADIVIDUAL MATEO. TO NOT SHOWN, TXPLATE ANY

NOTT

Subject 1e utationed in Louisiana.

CHECK

(X) APPROHIA

STATEWENTS:

887419 4031.

1088084151

DAVIDUAL

ACOS NDE

BECAUSE (SIOCAIN):

THIS DATE

I Nir 56

FOR

Wdrhira/7

AND SIANATURE

5.

M

THE REVIERING OFFICIAL

RICORO AR

FORMATION

WHICH

VILL LEAD TO A BEPPE

SUBS

OF SUPERVISOR D. SUPERVISOR'S OFFICIAL TIPLE

ASECRAFT

Chief, Contact Division

OPINION BITH

THE SUPERVISOR, OR ANY ATHLO IN.

RaTE

Pangel las. Cont:

A. TOyS DATE

SE:1441 GORGE G. CARDX Assistant Director for

SECTION C.

JOB PERFCRMANCE EVALUATION

OperatIone

RATINO ON GEGIRAL PERFORMAACE OF DUTIES

DIFFCTIONS:

Consulter

178 49

dutses

during the

rating period.

NLy the productiust and eflecticeness with which the andiraduad being rated hos perlapard

Compare him 1N?}

mali others doing

ort as a sinolar love

sibilaty.

Facsors asher than productiody mill do tadra into account later in Section D.

5

RATING

P0UMHB F

IRIOMPETENT.

BARELY

ADEQUATE IN PERFUHMANCE.

OUT

RESPONSIBILITIES.

1L'406ÃA NE MAS HAD SPECIFIC GUIDANCE OR TRAINING, ME OFTEN FAILS TO

PERFORMS MOST OF HIS DUTIES ACCEPPADIS.

SICASICMALLY REVEALS SOME ARIA OF MEANNESS.

PERFORUS DUTIES IN A COMPEYERS.

EFFRETIDE MANNIR.

A FINE

PENFORMANCE:

CARRIES OUT

184002894841

SUCH As

OUTTA HE RESPONSIRTHERS COCATE

THE SUPERVISOR.

CONCIENTS:

oR 40. 45 (Part 1)

PLACES PREVIOUS IRITINOS SECRET

OF FORMS 49 AYD 890

OBSOLETE.

Performance

1 8B

---

## Page 54

SECRET

arce of shes aprcific duty.

indiradual. bring paised

may be perforuing dullerens duiden.

the khind of dutars-phat wicht be

PRETARES SiNARIES

TARINO DICTATION

on obe dude no broken do con

CIT1989&

MAINPATIS AIR CONDITIONING

AVAILATES SIGUIFICANCE OF DOTA

He He a

THE PERFORURACE C

THE PEEFSENANCE OF OUTS

THOS

1016484629188

RATING

DUTY

PERrORS THIS DUTY ACCEPTABLY

PERFORM? tHIS DUTY IM

outr

SUCH

-THAT HE IS A DISTINCT ASSET

FENFOINS

TALS DUTY

AN QUISTANDING MANNEA

SOUND IN DEAY FEW INDIVIPUALS HOLDING SIMI.

MAM JOUS

'EXCELS

AYVONE I ANON IN THE PERFORMANCE DE

THIS OUTY

1: 8

WANT. BH

Dracos GusT To. & Obtaining the

MATING

Management of domestic field office.

effective support of non-govermental

NUMDEA

sources and contacte in h19 area.

6

duty

Analysis of assigned aies for

Liaison With federal and local agencient?

Inteligence potential.

6

and officlals in bis area.

"The planths and carrying out of

effective intelligence collection.

6

Support of other elemente of CIA

In bla area.

RATING

NUMBER

3

MARRATIVE DESCRIPTIDN DE MADORA OF DOO PLAFORMANCE

DIRICTIONS:

Serens strengths and weaknesses.

particuladly those mhich allece deerinene on persont job.

The ability to obtain high degree of cooperation fron Important industrial and

educational sources 1n his area; ability to plan and direct the operations of bls

office with efficiency and exceptionally high standards; complete Integrity. Thie

Integrity, coupled vith a somewhat legslistic approach to many problems, tends to

make hin somewhat inflexible in his aprroach to the sometimes unusual requirements

of Intelligence, particularly when they concern clandestine matters.

SECTION

D.

SUITABILITY FOR CURRENT JOB IN ORGANIZATION

everything you know abous the individunt

БЕРНОМАМІ

or talent and how or city in

him with others doing islar work of about tie some

DEFINITELY LASLITABLE • HE SHOULD DE SEPARATED

AVERAGE DUT PITH AD NEARNESSES SUFFICIRNTLY QUISTANDIAG TO WAR.

AANT HIS SEAADATION

HAS SOME DUTSIRDIAG STRENGTHS

AY UNUSUALLY SINONG PERSON IN TITUS iT

EXCELLED BY POLY A FEN IN SUITADILITI FOR DORE IN SHE ORGARIZATION

THIS INDIVIDUAL BETTER SUITED FOR BORN IN SINE

OTER POSITION IN INE ORGANAZATIONI

SECRET

---

## Page 55

14-00001

SECRET

FOR TIE NAGLISTRATIVE DICKE

FITNESS REPORT (Part Il) POTENTIAL

INSTRUCTIONS

•Consult dussent insersctións for compleling this repare.

PYR.

TIF SIEgEVISOR:

This

personnel olficials

concerning,

aged cnamunication:to.you

and to approppinte

of. thp

employée being rared:

it is

räird mplayer.

real thie

гO8BY8

répore: Belora corplerine

any

question.

train to th

Triso report

tobr.ronslaled only

aftes the 'emplayre

this

BUSCrUISIOn PTA: AT LIAST YO DAYS.: If less

employee.

chan 90 lays

linlil 'anil compliço

alter the sudays

has

de flie

ISITIA. RESTINT an the

however.

BLINT be

completeil ind formarded lo the li' no loses thian 30 days

the due dote amirited in ilén i of Scriion

SECTION •E.;

GENERAL

(4601l0)

DATE OF BIOTIO

22 Oct 1900.

-SARVICE:08S169A91O8

OC

GRADE

G3-15

Operations/Contact/New Orleans. Office

• DATE REPORT DiE IN OP

9 September 1956

To (Comest)

POSITION FITLE

PERIOD

COVEREO

THIS REPORT (facianovo detes)

9/9/55 - 9/8/56

10.

ROACIAL (SpBelly)

one)

SECTION

179.1nt

THIS GATE

2 Nor 56

600

IMP OUTIENING

THIS DATE

8

SECTION

-G.

*ED OR

ION

ST JUDGENERT DE PUE. INDIVIOUAL BEING RAPED

MAA TARA

or

SUPERVISODE.

SUPER

ISOR'S DEFICIAL

TITLE

E. M. ASHCRAFT

Chief, Contact Division

THIS HEPORT AND MOTED

argy

DIFFEPENCE OF OPINIGNIN

ATTACHED MEMO.

SIGNATURE OF

OFFICIAL

TITLE DE REV

EMING OFFICIAL

Assistant Director for

ESTIMATE OF POTENTIAL

Operationa

GREATER

MIRECTIONS:

Considering others

responsebilities.

work.

Thank

in

rate the

none I

greater

HAS PEACHED THE MICHEST LEDER

SCAr PRASDOMANCE CAN DE EXPECTED

2

TRAINERG

RATING

MUMBLA

THE FEW ANO SHOULD BE CONSIDERED FOR EARLY ASSUMPTION DA HIGHER

SUPERVISORY POYENTIAL

G9006697

• YEs, Indicaer belon your opinion or

SUITAME TRAINING.

Indeate your opinion

represland your

CENTENS GREA

sating an the

below which comes closest

opinion of has potentsal

an the "potential'

DESCHIPTIVE

RATIAG

NUMBER

ACTUAL

POTENTIAL

NO OPINIDH OR HIS SUPERVISORY POTENTIAL IN THIS

RELIEVE

INDIVIQUAL

SIULD BE A WEAR

SUPERVISOR IN THIS

HIND

0F

SHUATION

HOTSEOUAL

AN AVERAGE

SUPERVISOR IN THIS HIND OF

IEDIVIDJAL

BOULD

BE

A STRONG SUPERVISOR

IN THOSS

SITUATION

SITUATION

DESCRIPTIVE SITUATI3

3

rialesto sl versous dinds)

PASQUERT (Fered lane

DIRICE INE BASIC D08 (SeCOnd lana supertasorn)

poence

3

3

OLD IMMEDIATE SUDORDINAPES

arman (Specily)

REPLACES PREVIOUS EDITIONS

108009, 45 (Part 11) or

WHICH

ARE OBSOLETE

SECRET

Potential

---

## Page 56

70

COMMITIS CONCERYINE PASTATIRE

SECRET:

Brian

Filled 1a

MATED IMPLOTS ABS +XID UNDER PQUA S:+191+510%

DEFEND PERSENEI

MA:1 ROOM

SECTION

FUTURE PLANS

OTHER DEVELINES

The infairuar

No further training or expe-fence planned or considered necessary, with the

exception of perladle meetings: of the CD/00 feld chiefs.

NOTE OTHER FACIDAS. DECRUCIAG

See Bection Q (4) above.

: CIRCUMSTRACES, PO DE PARIS INTO ACCOUMT IN IXDIVIDUAL'S FUTURE ASSIGNHENTS

SECTION 1.

DIRECTIONS:

the

marty

TaiP

DESCRIPTION OF INDIVICUAL

This section

laserally.

the rere eat are

Me&GEtar..

series

of

inlividual

as you see him on the

job.

Interpret

Chat apply on some degree to

most people.

FACt 9608N9+77E

t3t arr

the

To

heard sig

"category:

Head cach statemens

amt ingere in the box the.

coleROry number which tast

elis trus

Duct the

staterent applers

sa the person coveral by this report.

TNISE NEACE CAN GIVE NO IDINION AS TO MUN THE DESCRIOTION APPLIES TO THE

CATEGORY NUMBER

R0x&4

APPLIES

APPLIES T9 18I:6ISUAL

APPLIES

To

LATRAGHU

THE LEPIAIDUAL

TO THE LEAST PISSIBLE DEGREE

DEGREE

90

TO

AVERAGE DEGSER

Part

AVERAGE

FIGREE

SLAL

TO

Aty

OUTSTAYOING DISCE

ATEGORY

CATEGLAY

CTATENNP

3

30D9S 08

4

5

19 DOSCUS-

ASJOCIATLS

5

z.

*AEL

40.518

6M005 081EI88÷8T

3

122.

GARDLESS

•°s 01,86

13.

INSTER::HE

i 29.

PIEB

5

3

deedes

ize.

w0684

HE 0490018388 003 19888

DESTONOS DILE TO BURGA.

819109

25.

D08P6AVB IUDGINEN!

1: 8818

86.

ASSI9TA8:8

120.

11 SECURITY CONSCIOUS

CAN GA8 B0:85 DITA PINO,

3

? 3.

23. 01 VERSATILE

5

B.

#89 G80080 8D8 FAITS

c90880188 88 60.

SPRUCTANI

GETS PRIMES DOB6

|28.

1490Y

00108

SECRET

---

## Page 57

SECPET

FITNESS REPORT

•tra est

Co

"Consort cur

and d'ansoreeál of

THE SUPERVISON:

3277220039

armina

9-9.56 sext report die

Posted Pos. Contrel LizK

OCT 1 $ 1955

18 IS OPTIONAL WHETHER OR NOT

SECTION I (To

DATE OF TAPRANCE ON DUTY

9 September 3947

NATURE

ASSIGAMENT

B. OFFICE ASSIGNED TO

Operations

Z. DATE OF BIRTH

22 Oct 1900

P. DIVISION

Contact

ARCED SEBIGAATION

BRANCA

New Orleans Office

GRADE

G5-15

New Orleans.

Louisiana

DATE THAT THIS

HEPCAT IS DUE

I3. PERICO COVERED

BY THIS REPORT (Incluave dales)

9 September 1955.

9/9/54 - 9/8/55

SECTION 11 17o Do talled in by supervisor

I. CURRENT POSITION

DÄTE ASSURED RESPONSTOILITT FOR POSITION

chiat,

New Orleans

BHAT SPECIFIC

Office

43-0132.21"12

19 September 1948

ASSIGNMENTS ON

TASKS ANE

THOSE GIVEN TO MIN OURING INE PÄSI

THREE TO SIN ADAPHS (LITE

Tha setive management of a major donestle field office.

This inaludes:

(1) the

supervision and direction of the profesatonal and clerioal personnel of that

office; (2) within the broad directives of the Contact Division, the assesament

öf the Intelligence capability of his assigned aras, the conduct of methodical

exploitation of the intalligance sources within his area, and the maintenance of

alose and affective relationship with Contact Division Headquarters for the purpose

of directing local exploitation along the lines of current requirements and

priorities; (3) the effective support of all alementa of the Agency, required within

his area; and (4) the maintenance of all Federal, State and looal liaisons neCesBaTy

to the accomplishnent of his mission.

READ THE ENTIRE FORM BEFORE ATTEMPTING TO COMPLETE ANY ITS

SECTION IIT

ent'the banned ra ence de'der halfood the portod covered do thus report, & here discussed muth the posed indi.

the manner in shich he has perlarsed dis pos

that

provided sudgontions and criticsaos shorever

understanding of sy

pErformanco la consident lA or

•f

ed by shia fitness

report

alopeed Ais

trengine.

Beaknesses,

and 08- 118-10b

*§fectivandas.

Ifp

formance dur

od has

been unnatiafactory.

thore is attached a copp of the memorandus nole.

fyind him of unsati

alactory perfor

shom to the individual rarer.

'''''' tobin is-

I NAVE REVIEDED THIS REPORT (CONSENtS.

E. M. ASECRAFT

REPLACES PREVIOUS EDITI

74077

FORM

но.

129455

45

GEORGE G. GARFY

---

## Page 58

SECRET

Felled day

SECTION

indivadual our

portacular jod de and ansent.

sahe

fAt.

add on descrabang

ere soarine to rearron

de.ol PAé-pago

Дом ДоРос

OPTICE DE PERSOSAEL®

ГА •

STATEVENTS.

- NOT."

SERVED

DOES

NOT

APPLY

APPLIES TO -A

LIMITED

DEGREE

CATEGOR VES

APPLIES TO A

'APPLIES TO AN

REASONABLE.

ABOVE

AVERAGE

DEGREE

DEGHEE •

APPLIES TO AN

OUTSTANDING

DEGREE.

ADLE TO

SEE

GOETHIN•S

POIRT OF PIER.

SAMPLES

6000 REPORTER DE. EVENTS.

CAN HASE DECISIOUS DU MIS OMN

DARN NEED-ARISES.

$.

CRUTIOUS IN ACTION.

8. HAS IBITIATIVE.

S. UNEMOTIONAL.

MALYPLE !' MIS THIRRING..

Y. CONSTAETLY

STRIWISE FOR MEN

«HOBLEGE AND IOTAS.

GETS AGONG SITA PIOPLE AT ALL

SCEIAL LEVELS.

9. 289 S0998 05 4-990.

#AUDE BOEA TO SIER ASSISTANCE.

12. CAM SEP ALONG DITH PEOPLE.

19. MENDAT FER FAC?S.

I8. GEIS THINES SINI.

ALEPS ORIENTES PODARO LONG

TERU GIALS.

18- CAN COPE MITA CARRGENCIES.

17. MAS MIGH STANDAROS OF

ACCOMPLISHNES!.

IA. MAS S:49144: C45 HELP GOING

19. MAS BIDE BARGE DE INFURMATION.

O. 54095-0818199315.

10, ACCEDES RESPORSIBILITIES.

22. ADMITS NIS EARIAS.

23. RESTINIS OIL TO SUPERVISION.

does 23582508s.99

aBLE

ABRE 420-309 108 BITHOUT

SECRET

---

## Page 59

SECRET

Fallen la)

CAR PAINS ON HIS ELET.

POOLINs.

STIMULATING TO ASSOCIATES, A

TOUCH MINDED.

90.

DI. CAPABLE.

98. CLEAR THINNING.

39. COMPLATAS AISIGHNENIS NITHIN

ALLOWABLE

TIME. LIMITS,

3ф.

EVALUAYAS SELE REALISTICALLY.

WILL INFORMED ABOUT CURRENY

30.

DELIBERATE. '

38. EFFECTIVE IM DISCUSSIONS WITH

BISOCIATES.

IMPLEMENTS DECISIONS REGARO.

LESS OF OH FEELINGS.

39.

THOUGHTEUL OF OTHERS.

WORKS DELL UNDER PRESSURE.

DISPLAYS JUDGINENT.

GIVES CREDIT SHEDE CREDIT IS

duE.

AS. HAS DRIVE.

Ad.

I9 SECURITY CONSCIOUS.

A5. VERSATILE.

*A, HIS CRITICISM IS CONSTRUCTIVE.

A7. RULE TO INFLUENCE OTHERS

10. ВАСИ ОТНЯ SHOOT OPERATION

IS NOT

STRONG AND

SO. A GOOD SUPERVISOR.

SECTION Y

A. SMAT ARE HIS OUTSTANDING STRENGTHSY

Complete Intogrity, high standards of bahavior and accomplishment, the ability to

Induce cooperation at a high level, experience in domestio collection.

#. WHAT ARE MIS OUTSTANDING LEARNESSES!

Somewhat Inflexibly high noral

and ethical standards.

SECRET

---

## Page 60

14-00000

INDICATE IF YOU THINE THAT-ANY SINGE

Intogrity and general capetence.

O, DO YOU. FEEL THAT ME REQUIRES CLOSE BUPEREISIONI

SEENCE

Folded de)

OR BEARDESS OUTILIGAS ALL 'OTHER

DECODERSONNEL

wire

205 PM 55

MAIL ROON

WHAT. TRAININE DO YOU RECONUERD POS THES INDIVIOUALA

None, beyond perlodie vialts to Divlaion headquartere.

OTHER

COMMENTS' (andacaro

See B'above.

Read all description

DIRACTIONS:

Aé a

accordinaly.

med cha dutie.

Plaro

mach which ine

jos and sato

TORS ME

PERFORM DUTIRS ADEQUATELY,

HE IS

ECIFIC

GUIDANCE

OUT

RAINING.

HESPON

PEITIES

OF HIS

THE

BILI

DUTSTANUING

LEO BY.

FED OTHER PER.

For sure AT,

IN SOME

in tha

ДНО НОНЕ ОРДГОРРАВГО

Co.

DIRECTIONS,

and

under subsectione A, B.C.AD

Bhar ho

youe opinion of lore

APTITUDE

TOMARO THE AGENCY

ANTAGOTELY GEAVE TUE AGONER AT THANAY

FRONG NEGATIVE ATTITUDE

TOWARD

AGENCY.

IAKED -ON RISTRICTIONS... REGARDS AGENCY

PORARY STOO UNTIL ME

CAN GET SOMETHING

BETTER.

TO HAVE AN UNFAVORABLE ATTITUDE TOWARD

AGENCY,, BOTHERED BY MINOR FRUSTRATIONS..

*ILL

QUIT 1E

THESE.

CONTINUE.

ATTITUDE TODARO

THE

AGEDICT

IS INDOSPERENY

HAT

ATTITUDE.. WOULO GRAVE I

SIMLORE DEFERIO

SAMETHING

TOWARD

AGENCY

• MAKEY

RESTAICTIONS IMPOSEO

AGENCY.. THINK'S IN

TERMS

Or A CA.

IGENCY,

ATTITUDE

TOMARD

BARRING AY

• AVORABLE CTED DOG TO OPPONE

FURITY

#ILL

PROBABLY ENOCAVOR TO MAKE À

CAREER IN THE AGENCY.

ENTHUSIASTIC

ATTITUDE TOWARD THE AGINCY

NEVER CONSIDER WORKING DAY.

B. FIRECTIOSS- COnDiderIne derorE OTerio

trade

antu cope ol assinaent, hus sould you rato

potentialer.

for

assumplion of dredler

sues normalir indicated by promotion.

THE MIGHEST GRADE LEVEL

" HAS REACTOR HE MIGUEST CADETS TO.

AT WHICH

i$

MARIAG PROGRISS.

PRISENT

GRADE

MEEDS:

MORE

TIME

GRADE CAS

DE RECOUVEADED.

HIGHER

3. 15 REASY TO TANE DE RESCONSIBILITIES

OF THE

NEMY MINNER GRADE.

BUT MAY SEED

TRAINING IN

SOME AREAS.

1+.116i

PROBABLY ADJUST

RISTINSIBLE CUTIES OF

g.

ALREADY PERFORNING AT

THE LEbEL

GRADE.

THE NEXT

GRADE.

AN ENCIPTIONAL

PERSON AHO 1S

THE FEM

RIO SHOULO DE CONSIDERIO FOR RARIO ADVANCE.

D.

DIRECTIONS:

Condider everythond you knor about thes

porson in addind your ralana., shall an son durdes,

habies,

and special dofects

• RESiBlICA OP

of

= 1. DEFINITELY VASUITABLE • HE SHOULO BE SEPARATEO

2. or

COUBYFUL

СЕРТЕО НІМ

SULTAND WORDUAD NOT MARC

MAD HAOEN

WHAT

A DARFLY ACCEPTABLE IMFLOYEE, DEFINITELY BELON

AVERAGE BUT

#ITH NO

BE ANNESSIS SUFFICIENTLY

OUTSZANDIAG TO

BARRANT

SEPAAATION.

- 1.

TYPICAL

EMPLOYEE..HE

DISPLAYS

THE

SAME SUITA

BILITY AS MOST OF

THE FIOPLE & ANOD IN THE

=*..

лр1A9

EMPLOYEE - HAS SOME OUTSTAMDING

STRENGTHS.

UNUSUALLY STRONG PERSON IN TERUS OF THE

REQUIRIMENTS OF THE AGENCY.

EXCELLEO SY ONLY A PEE IN SUITABILITY FOR HORA

116 TNE AGENCY.

SECRET

---

## Page 61

SECRET

ISSUED IN LIEU OF FORM 50

NATURE OF ACTION CHANGE IN OCCUPATIONAL CODE AND/OR TITLE•

EFFECTIVE DATE..

31 MARCH 1955

POSITION TITLE

10- CONTACTCH

NEW CODE

GS-0132•21

NAME,

POSITION

K 195

NUMBER

POSE

MAY 141903

APPROVED

HARRISON GO REYNOLDS

DIRECTOR OF PERSONNEL

SECRET

---

## Page 62

Post. Office Box 1016

New Orleans, Lo.

" December 1954

Мг. С. ?. Camp

Chier, Personnel Procurement

Central Intelligence Agency

Washington 25, D. C.

Dear Mr. Camp:

I am today in receipt of your letter of

1 December 195 concerning Mr. Ciapp's visit

and Mr. Mc Brice:

I was not lu dew Crleans it the tine when

Mr.

wlapp was here and accordingly did not

have the pleasure of seeing him.

I as sorry that Mr. Clapp did not succeed

in making contact with Mr. NcBride.

happen to learn vi a more recent address of

Mr. McBride, I spall pass the information on

to jou.

Very truly yours,

---

## Page 63

-1?3

10018-1-3931-0

SEt 14.054

FURANT FORI Deputy Director (intelligarca),

Carmenation e! 20,% Perorreli

Io fir the pastinoveral sunthe my office hue hait au urgent. ant a

contimung ree! for intelligence about Cutrale - for intolliconce

such iariaty that se

in

contrtiniel.

one line or anitar alnoet avary PD.i comuient

2.

FAsh il them - officas as mell as individual mithin the

DD/I

a Manly inrereive alacrity ant completennod.

Their contriottions were thorough in their coverago and fast in choir

propa:9t10n.

is io alifieule in cito the mort ol particiar individualo and

companence of DD/T, tacaine

much tenagledoms but essentiai labor munt

infairy a unrersenized,

Äisking the chance that such work might

neartsplegs bollare that the more of the

followire individuals aud untie jarerves sorelal recognition::

V.2 I. A

matrong, Milton i. Brow:,

amri

1199 Dariery do traxlas

Leane and Iloyd A. Ray,

Hunter :.

naila field ostico, 10/i.

Jand todame so duauli, ca-tography Dirieson, oni.

Photo inteliluence diviaion, des.

and

aid

00/C.

J, New Jork Field office, 00/6.

SECRET

---

## Page 64

SCREE

O1!1co of Pesearch and Roports which put 1ti malor resourçoa.

at our disponal..

ORA a footraphic rendaroh arde treely save

eno timo of tratnal oartigraphere and interpreters.

#:thout their

ektila, and che endios hours they applian those sialia for uo,

our operatione muld have been most difficult. MAi's coonomie

research area eontributed ian pniy bocauro no Ascal fur lossi

econonte iritailiconco was not. da gital as serraphle intelligence

to this operation.

In altition, the major aconide contributton

was reengnizod and commended in ay 7 June 1951 amorandus l you.

Foreian Broadcage Inforca lon Diviaton mich saltorod

juncemalan and

related broadçaate

with

more than 1lg unual care,

and, anoninthor spectal activities,

arrangod a direct wire

morice as chat our flold headquartore unlt regelral the sonitorod

broadcasto timidiacaly.

The entire diviason turnod es den took

with auch unlty that singling out fur comendation the wurk of any

of 180 coopie in :spoosible.

¿jen Demento Divinion which save is translationa quietly

and in

Me PTI ILy nooded.

Too garvice was the sure remarkable

Initiative, flerlb1llty,

41t W:11:40498

were asballtured for this organisat:..ni lack.

aton whilen oruvided a mie variety of services no

A?!

"y?.

Le on: intelative proposed or isaful servicos.

'redid niloction of Central Averican Intelligence Informa

12o% as ln peterk of donnatle field nellons, le carefully

w70174r1

"he sosthern pores of erary into the inited Statos on a

• tasia, 1l provaded up with comercial news clipping

action and the toot of news tralcasts, and it located, sur

allert ar: is, TAry cases Interviewed Gustenalane within the Unitod

tiates in wana we were intorest,

CLA Library, espootally, its Poik Branch. All componente, hou

ever contributed.

Its chlpping servico was

reliable, alert, and

bran to render marimm seryloe.

The Intoration Sortion promptly

arallel minerou spot roqueato and gavo redource ul assistanco

well boyoni ine confinea of tes rousine dutted.

The Pook Branch

surveyod perialica! and scholarly literature sericuloualy, and

thus unesvered such infomation monul to a paychological campalgn.

raphica Porterer whose ihoen Bratch and F1la Pranch both gave

garricon much beyoni the normal course of duty, and shamel

lingomulty in locating and preparine specta: matarials.

Deputs Diracsor (Plana) :

SFCRET

---

## Page 65

SECRET

SECURITY INFORMI

PERSONNEL EVALUATION REPORTS CON:

SEP 25 1954

BY.:

Pa DATE

OFFICE

STAFF OR OIVISION

DDI/00

Contact

PERIOD-COVERED AT REPORT

GS-15

BRANCH:

New Orleane.

OF - REPORT

POSITION

• CD-00

Intelligence Officer (Chief)

З DEРY"К.

MAFIELD, SPECIFY STATION

Annual

we speelat

I Reisilgoment of superylsor

99153.

9/8/54

Reassignmone

aAronah.ID pill.Do.comp/otod.bj.010.pog.on

LIST YOUR MAJOR DUTIES IN APPRONIMATE ONDER OF IMPORTANCE,

WITA A BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF EACH.

• OMIT MINOR DUTIES;

General and

retsiled

01°

superviston,

direction

anu support

personnel attached co.the

New

Uricans

with

of the activities

a view to insurin:

the highest

standard of professionni

ind clerical

ver fornance and tho

most conplete

coverage of the

arca within

this oftice's

irisdlction.

interpretation and

inplementation oi

policies originated

vainbensure

by

eche-

Ions.

higher

o1 liaison

with fiole Installations of other lAC

ägencies tor the

purpose of effecting coordination or comestle intoin

¿cace collectiona

Collection

reporting or

positive

forelen Intcl

1i conce

intoration from comotie concovernmental sources.

Provision of

support to other components of cli.

8. LIST COUASES OF INSTRUCTION COMPLETED DURING REPORT PERIOD.

Nemo of Courte

"Location

longes of Course

Dato Completés

irone

9. IN SHAT TYPE OF WORK ARE YOU PRIMARBLY INTERESTEOE

IF DIPTERENT FROM YOUR PRESENT JOB, EXPLAIN YOUR QUALIFICATIOAS CAPTITUDE, ANONELOGE, SKILLSO.

In the tige si work

in which i an

presently coraled.

10.

31 duest 1254

DATE

18ana 1l througs l8 will do cooplored dia Suporrisor

BRIEFLY DESCRIBE THIS PERSON'S PERFORMANCE ON TNE MAJOP OUTIES LISTEO UNDER ITEM 1 ABOVE.

He perforns these duties conscientiously and efficiently.

FORM

HAT

1932 97-351

SECRET

fad'

---

## Page 66

SECRET:

SECURITY iNFORMATION

OFFICE OF: BE380

IN MMAT RESPECE IS PAIS PERSON'S PLADORMANCE ON PRESCHE DUE MOST NOTOCLADUS GOOD OR ON!

sy the maintenance of his office and official relationilipa.

raditional independence and integrity, on a firm and hich or A7 area of peculia

ON THAT ASPECT: OF PERFORMANCE BROULO THIS PERSOM COMCENTRATE THORT FOR SHE REUNITE

To contimuing his present efforta to reach a broader undarstanding of the whole

Intelligence problem; both within CIA and in the lAc complete

To a more tolerant

approuch to support problems.

L6. COMMENT ON THIS PEASON'S ABILITY TO MANOLE GREATER RÉSPONSIBILITIES NOW OR IN THE FUTURE.

Re is capable of greater responsibilities now.

S. ARE THERE OTHER OUTTES UNICH BETTER SUTT THIS PERSON'S QUALIFICÁTIONSE PReCORReNd apprOprTaSe reassigamens, TE

• No.

16. WHAT TRAINING OR ROTATION DO YOU AECOMWEND FOR TNIS PERSONT

None, other than periodie visits to 00/6 hoadquarters.

2%.

IF PERFORMANCE DURING REPORT PERIOD HAS BEEN UNSATISFACTORY, THERE IS ATTACHEO COPE OF MEMORANDUM NOTIFTING THIS

PERSON OF UNSATISFACTORY PERFORMANCE.

18.

24 Sift. 54

DATE

ADa I MAVE REVIEDEO THE ABOVE REPORT.

23121934

20. COMMENTS: 11f nocessary, may do continuod on

(Consents,

18 any,

Miauhot...

I8en 20.8

Sarah Lenry

SIGNATORE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

of cover

SECRET

---

## Page 67

CONFIDEMIIAL

PABASA REND SASTRUCTION' SHINY ASPORE

STATEMENT: OF FEDERAL CIVILIAN ANO MILITARY SERVICE

FEDERAL CIVILIAN SERVICE

IMIS AGENCY, AND. ECLICH

LOCATION

santral Intel" Franco-Areroi

For ironice 15.

ГАВІС ТНІЛ ПОМ

SANCE

• WANCH

REVERSE ENRONCICGICAL

CROCE)

=:.

31,013104

ciintact.

40910E

ay Drlesus. o'f

ул"

TOTAL LEONIGE

09: 203-

213-4

I MILITARY SERVICE LINCLUDE ONLY FERIDOS OF ACTIVE DUTY: DO NOT INCLUDE TERMINAL LEAVE)

BRANCH: OF SERVICE

Total Civilian Sorvico

FROM .

HO. TYR. T

" starine Corre (argorvo)

11042

1995

TOTAL SERVICE

Total Military Service

DID CERTIFICATION

IV REMARKS:

I hereby corrify

that the

above Civilian and Military service is complete

accurate to the best of my knowledge.

i1 Dee l'ala

COMERSING ABOVE SERVICE

DAYS

V FOR PERSONNEL DEFICE USE ONLY

TOTAL CREDITAOLE SERVICE

PEARS

")

MAT BE CONTINUED CY MOM-DETACH

---

## Page 68

1d-0d0

*l+6 408+86+9+-4-819) 4185-8-48091

i Papirogo'o voce

BASE PAT

•Il period

A Plura No

AZiE

cirmulo und pelary

PAY ROLL CHANGE DATA

TAX_

RAT.

20.4D

A slip No.

210, 750.00

NET VET"

8. Previense

- Bura!

•. Foy abis

18. Appropriatico (0)

12, Perpered g

fin?

PURSUANT TO DCI DISECTIVE

EFFECT.VL. 24 OCT. 1951

SALARY ALJUSTED TO S

11800.80

19. Asdlieil Sy

14. E0--18

dore

0N. M0M84 T0T

pulvolant

8o, 131od moleay

raso

928/52

8/29/59

810a730,00 / $12,020003

20. LO0P daso (1ill la espropeinie apa, os curering kWOP durre tollumice pertoder)

Perbor(o) :

• 89. (a) 8 t6rless.

cosalurt

(D).

B 42 4900 1802 Toral Mire LEOP

161H18 N19, 1334

percorndos

Fob

bay

Conigo.

tion. V1,

3, 198, востьстав Водивайаля Гат. 205

oe better

good and

aereice and

• 20121

qUATURE

fibera asplicablo boal la eam al dacon LHOP)

I) 8o pay aratua al and of malling portand

IJ Io LWOP natua de ond ol maltion pertod

PAY ROLL CHANGE SLIP PERSONNEL COPY

19. Укарнове

- dato

20/22/51

1011151 gu

PAINTINO OFFICE

---

## Page 69

1d-0d0

INFICITAT

Mid Ins'ostativin

OF CHANGE

-O519101

SOTTION SLOTTING

DESIGNATION

DATÉ OF

EFF

po approva.

POLITION

GO CONTAGT

DI.V151.ON

NANG G TITLE

PERSONS

GRADL

SERIES

.03 138 15

1O CHIliF

TiAY

ANTHONY

05 137

PUNTE!:

OFFICER

08 132

AHLONOC OVANVIN

ADM ASSISTANT

0S 301

05

INTIL OFFICER

G3

216

•3

SECRETARY

310

SCORITANY STENO

05 312

CUORE STENCORAPÜCK

JD1S0 NOISIO

MARCH. 9I

FOSITION

NUMOCR

1+195

KI900I

k19

11190

1199

11990

15200

ПІЗСНІ СПСОТ А

10

CHIEr

932 15

. K201

132111

1702.

8901I391N1

132 13

1÷203

INTEL OFFICER

-n,1=0

20

COITIDIATEL

---

## Page 70

1d-0d0d

Public Láw 513. Approved May 13. 1950. 81st Congress. (2nd Session),

mis quoted verbatin herewith:

"AN ACT.

•To erhance further the security of the United States by prevent-

iny disclosures of

information cowerning the cryptographic systems

and

the

communicátions

intelligence. accivities of the United States.

"BE IT ENACTED BY THE SENATE AND MOUSE OF RÉPRESESTATIVES OF THE

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA IN CONGRESS ASSENBLED. That whoever shall

knowingly

and willfully

make

communicate, furnish, transmit. or otherwise

available to an -unnuthorited

publish.

or uso.in any

manner prejudicial to the

of the United States or for

the

benefit of

any forcign governnent to the detriment

of the linited

States

any classified information (1) concerning the

nature. prepara-

tion, or use of any code, caphor, or cryptographie system

of

the United

States or any foreign government

or 12) concerning

the

design, construc-

tion, use maintenance.

repair of any dovice. apparatus. or

appliance

used

or prepared or planned

for use by the United States

or any forcign

government for cryptographir or communication intelligence purposes: or

(3) concerning

the communication intelligence activities of

the United

States

or any foreign govornment.. or (t) obtained by

the processes of

communication intolligence .from the communications of any foreign

government knowing the samo to

have been obtained by such processes,

shall be fined not more than $10.000 or imprisoned not more than ten

years. or both.

classilled information' as used herein

be construed to mean information which, at the time of a violation

under this Act, is. for reasons of

national

security.

specifically

designated by a United Srales Government Agency for limited ur

ed dissemination or distribution

restrict-

The terms

•and cryptographic system as

shall be construed to include in their

neanings. in additions to

their usual neanings, any method of secret writing and any nechanical

or electrical device

or nethod used for the purpose of disguising or

concealing the contents, significance, or meanings of communications.

The term cresgn government as

construed to include.in ats meaning

any person or persons

purporting to act for or on bohalf

agency, bureau, or military force of or tithin a

faction. party, department,

foreign country. or

for or on bohalf of any government

"saur person or persons purporting

to act as & rovernment within a

foreign country, whether or not such

government is recognizod by the barted States.

"ed) The term' 'conmunication intelligence as used heroin

be construed to mean all procedures and

nethods usod in the interception

of conmunications and the obtaining of information from such communica-

tions by other than the

intended recipients

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 71

COM DENIAL

* (e)

The term 'unauthorized person' as used herein shall be

construed to mean any person who, or agency which, iy

not authorized to

receive Information of the categories set forth

Act,-by the President, or by the

head

in section l of

this

of a department. or agency of the

United States Government which is expressly designated by the President

to engage'

in communication Intelligence activities for the United states.

"Sec. 3.

Nothing.in this Act shall prohibit the furnishing,

lawful demand, of Information to any regulary constituted

committee.of: the Senaté or House. of Representatives of the United States

of America, or Joint committee thereof."

I ;

_, do hereby certify that

I have read, and thoroughly understand, Public Law 513, quoted above.

Signed:

Date

6 Nor. 1950

Witness

Position:

Date

CONRDLAIIAL

---

## Page 72

ta-norden

Marie 8

MANNICO CEN:S11NN

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

2. DATE LE DINTM

1. JOUANALORACIICNIE

APE (5X) 130

16112"

Ther to to murelo vero ol the filloreno catir alfacera sinie repolos

3, NATUNE OF ACTION PÜRE AAMDARD YARHIBOROGTA

10/22/2900

8/22/50

B, AFFECTIVE DAIE

J, CIVIL SERVICE CA OINER LEGAL'AUTHORITY

CIA Adata, Dante: 20-9

Portallo Step Inerosso "

3/19/20

Da tod: 22/9/09

FROM

TO

Ragional Manager

8. 66516109 1746

Fezional Hannger

(batolilgence Offloor)

03-1g

$10300.00 por canu

$10130.00 por esma

Operationa

Contaot

Ter Orleans Of1i00

Opora tl ona

Contaot

Hor Orleano Offico

Fow orlens, Lololan

FIELD

13, VETERANS PREFERENCE

мока, ити /отиек/в.ря.

HẮCE

800#.

2103900

ALI

DEPARTMENTAL

10. ORCANIFATIONAI

1I. HEADQUARTER$

Nor orienne, Louteinn

THIELD

12. FIELD CA DEPTL

MISITICA CLASSIDILALION ACTION

Ni, a

vice

RIAL

Bu. 12-198

RETIRE VENT ACT

19, BANE AF MACHS

(ALCESSIONS (9191

DEPARIMENTAL

AO TEAMG 1004021D

E CLAINEO LI TRUNED

olast equivalont matary Incrasse 9/19/49

Artelenoy Rating: Emollent

Approved 3/20/49

Cannet Report: Satlarlotary

no tod 3/6/50

11159

ENTRANCE EFFICIENCY RATINEs

ARRIES E. VAN ESSO

- Chat, Mintatt stad

E2 SIGNATUNE CO CTNISANTNIATICATIOI

#o.+4047944879 86-47160 090I8 0 1146

5085-73

& PERSONNEL FOLDER COPY

---

## Page 73

1d-0n0d

Standard Form Ma 1

August 15d6

& & CIVIL HERVICE LUSMIISSION

RÉPORT OF

EFFICIENCY RATING

ADMISISTRATIVE-UNOFFICIAL

100l 3/20.50

... noid on perfuriance during portod lóm z22

wi intended alast

- 65-15

(Tiuo of position. derrier, and ende)

103/72/50

coContacte

' ON LINES, BELIN

_MARK ENFLOTKI

V' Il adequate

m, It weak

o 11 outstanding

in illon, unil. Beld mallo)

I. Study the Instructiona in the Rating OMela's Guide, C. 8. C. Form

-No-3823A7

Unlorline the clemente which are espasially important In the pastion.

3. Rato only on elements pertinent to'the position:

a Do not rito on clements in inlies recipt for employees in admin:

Istrative, supervlory, or plannine jositiona.

•O. Rate administrative, aupervisory, and planning functions on

elementa in italics.

CHSCK ONBe

Administrative,

aupervisory. or

All others...

- (1) Maintenanco of equipment, tools, lustruments

(2) Mechanical skill:

(3) Skill in tho application of techniquea and pro

Criures

(1) Pretontability of work (appropriateness of am o

rangement anil appearanco of sork).

J (5) Attention to broad phases, of malgimentà

(6) Altontion to pertinent detail.

(7) Accuracy of operationa

(9) Accuracg of final resulte.

(9) Accuracy of judgmente or decisions

(10) Eluctitoness in presenting idleas or facts

.. (11)

Industry.

0(12) Rule

of progresa on or completion of aanign.

I. (31) 5Boclirences in planning broad moorema

_("s) Enceliveness is rapting the scri program to

Broador or related progreenu.

•(2) Efectiveness in dorising proecdures.

= (34) Electinguess is laving out work and ratalliah.

smores o perormance for subors

trates.

(25) Edictirenesianirecling. raviewing.andchook

ing tha ork of subordinatos.

- (30) Eleclicenens in

inabricting

training, and

duseloping eubordinates in tho kork.

-(97) Efecliness in promoting high working morale

.. (93) Ellectierness in determining spoco, personnel,

and equipmond necela.

• (99) Electirerons in solting

and

obtaining action

enco to limo limits and coadlined.

(Is mark

n. (30)) 14iliey tomatodicision.

based on production records?

.. (91) EJectiveness

das

dologating dearly defined

unthority to ach

. (18) Ability to organize hla work.

(15) Elestiness in meating and dealing with

STATH ANY OTHER ELEMENTS CONSIDERED

-.-..(10)

Cooperativeness,

-(17) Initiative.

- (A)

- (18) Resourcchulness

-(R)

(19) Dependability.

-= (20) Physical fltness for the work.

N4.+--4777177

STANDARD

Merlalions munt bo espinined oa roversa allo of thie fores

Plus marke on all underlineed elements, and check marks or better on all

other clements ratedh....

heck marke webriter chal cements ratic, and plus marks on at lease

Check marke or lofter on a mnjority of undertined elements, and all nrak

performance overcompensated by outstanding performsuce.

Check marks or better on a majority of underlined elements, and all weak

performance not osercompenasted by outskanding performance..

Minus warho on of icast half of as. underlined elementa.

Hated by ..

sman oigal..

Reviewed by

1D/00

Rating approved by ericioncy ratlug committeo t

320150

Kudling

Excellent

Rating

otficiab.e

E

Very Good

Good

Fair

Unsatisfactory

Reviewing

oilicial..

1'6 March 1150

20 2101 1500

(Naia)

Ropors to omployee ina pine

---

## Page 74

14-00001

PERIODIC PAY: INCREASE REPORT

THIS DATE

Contact

3/3/1950

In order: lo desoreias melher the employéo nanid delon la eligible for e perlodie pay inerease la le necesar›

8has Ala (or Bor) imedlalo suporvicor arocuro ele Pollouine "Conduel Roporto and obtali she algnature of the

higheet eupervisor Daving anonlodeo of the enpláyeo'o conducto

COROUCT REPORT

MAME OF EMPLOVEE

POSITION, TITLE AND GANDE

Intelle Orfe

45-15

This enclores's conduce has deen sal isfacrory.

¡nis emplover's conducs nas deen unsasisractóry por the foliomina reasons: 9119/148

Eft.

Rating -

E- 3/20 (409

Effe.

sal 919/50.

2105800

529-888-

FIAM NO.

ymonkräiretuis

OCT 1989 97-105

12" March iss

SIGMATUNE OF REVIEMING OFFICIALI

Leonel tirin

DATE

RETURA TO: PERSONNEL DIVISION

ATT: TRANSACTIONS AND RECORDS BRANCH.

---

## Page 75

14-00000

1949

#TANDARA PIRA RO, A PARTI

80:94798 849

• CIVIA DERVICE COMMIDBION

668WmaM 4W49

BUQUET DUASAU NO. DO-FABA.

NAME +AR..

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

44981

3. UATE OF BIRTH

10/2/2900

11 (m) 130

A. DATE

10-30-40

Thes in do potle some of the fallouters metem al

The run emplomont:

B, NATURE OF ACTION IUSS SPANDARD PINMIMOLOGTI

Converalon-01420. Act of. 1909

FROM

•. EFFECTIVE DATE

10-30-49

7. CIVIL DERVICE UN OTABA LEGAL AUTHORITY

Letter- DOI -10-3049

TO

E. POSITION TITLE

Ga-1

Roglenal- Menagu

P-8

° BRENICE GRADE.

420,300.00 рог отн

Nd $20,305.00 por arr

Operations

Contact

How Orloans 0ff1c0

ONGANIZATIONAL

10. OHORATIONE

Operations

Contact

Hey Orloans 0ff100

18. MEAOQUARTERS

now Orlenzo, Lordiana

Hou Orloan, Initolars

I TRELO

0S, REMARKO

12. FIELD ON DEPT'L

1 OEPARIMENTAL

Il PIRO

I OEPARTMENTAL

IB. VETERAN'S PREFERENCE

МОМК іВ Р.

84PО1Я!

DISAR MIFE WIDOW

1O. APPROPRIATION

SEX

18.

RACE

PROMI

8203900

TO:

520-30₴

20.

JURJECT TO 6.5

PERIRIMEMT AC

(YEB--AQ)

Ton

4. PERSONNEL FOLDER COPY

Doting

Chief, Personnel Divialon

16, BIGNATURE OR OTHER AUTHENTICATION

16. POSITION CLASBIFICATION ACTION

NEW | *ICE

ABAL

21 3-2002

|31. DATE OF OATH

(ACCRABIGAS GALES

11/10/49

22. LEGAL RESIDENCE

Lolalenn

•T PRINTING OFFICE, PiGS 030128

---

## Page 76

Brandard Porno Ne El

U.R. CIVIL SENTICS COMMISION

C8t91 8111873854

REPORT OF

EFFICIENCY RATING

SISTRATIVE-UNOFFICIAL

OFFICIALI

REGUZAN

('=.)

SPECIAL

PRONATIONAl.

: As 0° 3/19/49

Base on performanco during period from 9/29/48

- 80-3/19/49

(Tilla.óf postlin, a

•and arades

00, Contacti

- ON LINES BELOW

MARK ESPLOTES

11 adequate

if weak

If outstanding

(Organtiation- Tediente

burnu, division, melon, nie heid station)

1. Study, the instructions in the Rating Oficial's Guide, C. S. C. Form

No. 3R2RA.

Underline the elements which are capeelally important in the position.

3. Huto only on elements pertinent to the position.

a Do not rate on clements in talien excujit for employces in admin.

Istrative, supergisors, or planning initions.

b. Rato adminstrative, supervisury, and plauning furetions on

elements'in italice. •

CHECK ONES:

Administratlve,

supervisory. or

planning -

All othera...

D

(1) Maintenanco of equipment,. tools. Instrumenta

(2) Mechanieal skill.

(3) Skill In tho application of techniques and pro

codures.

• (d) Presentability of work (approprintencis of as

rangement. and appearance of

- (5) Attention to broad phases of ussignments.

→ (6) Attention to pertinent detail.

-* (7)

Accuracy of operations.

I. (8)

Accuracy of Anal resulta.

accurucy_of.anugments or decaons.

•.=- (10)

Effectiveners in présenting Ideas or facta.

-(11) Industry.

..- (12)

Rote of progress on or completion of assigna

menta.

∞ (19) Amount of accortable work produced. (Is mark

based on production records? earne

... (14) Ability to organize his work.

.t.(15) Electivenous

ottery.

In meeting and dealing with

mat (1G)

Cooperativeness.

_t. (17) Initiative.

.t. (18) Resourcefulnega.

Dependability,

-(20) Physical fitnesn for the work,

.... (81) Efféctiveness in planning broad programa.

- (22) Effectireness in alapting the work program le

brorter or related programs.

(29) Ejectiveness in devising procedures.

I. (34) Ejectirences in lawing out work and establistin

stimunrela

nutes:

" performance for subordi

rovicwins, and chack

→ (26) Electivenenn

developing subordinates it

instructin the voini

training, and

too (27) Elicctircuess in promoting hish working morals

128) dollectoeness in determiting quaco, personnel.

und equigmient neede.

(20) Mricliventas in

sollins

aul abtaining wilher

enco to time limits uni domlimes.

- T (90) Ability lo musto dccisions

I. (91) Prectireness

delegating

nuthuritu touch

cleurly defined

STATE ANY UTHEN ELAMENTS CONSIDFRED

20(A) ..

10(03)

- (C)

STANDARD

Devinilans munt be explained on porerso aide of thie fores

dierlin

Sentim

djerti

Plus marke on ull underlined elements, and check marks or better on all

other elementa rated....

Excellent

Check

marke or lotter on all elements rated, and plas marke on at least

aalf of tho underlined elcrucata..

Very Good

Check marks or better on a majority of undecime elements, and all weak

performance overcomperated by outslanding períor1a180.-----

Good!

Check marke or latter on a majurity of underlined elemnts, and all werk

performanes not overcomensated by outstandug performance..

Fair

Minus maths eh at frust halt of ate underlined elements.

Unsatisfactory

Rated by ....-

men Subatic Chif, Contret Br

Reviewed by. or ll see 4p 441000

Doris spoil erica stir conto a 47 eur onion in genici

Ralinia...

E

Reviewing

utticial..

E

23 Much 1949

24 March 1949

Wale)

---

## Page 77

14-00000

PHYSICAL QUALIFICATION RECORD

NATURE OF ACTION

•E.O.D.

TITLE OF POSITION

GRADE

Regionut Menager

DEPARIMENT OR FIELD

Field

Subject was

found physically fix fit I gunfit for duty with this organization

in the above grade and position. Ll September 1947

RECONA ENDATIONS:

29 Decenber 1948

DATE

SIGNATURE OF PHYSICAL REQUIREMEXTS OFFICER

FORM NO.

34-37

NOY 1ĐA8

---

## Page 78

NAME

NATURE ON ACTION:

Promor

Promotion

EVICTV 9 September 1948.

Inerbatoly

FOR NEPARATIONS, TRANSFERS OUT. AND RISIONATIONS

LAST WORKING DAY:

RESTRICTED.

PERSONNEL ACTION REQUEST

int.

CLASSIFIÇATION

VICE.

.. IA

VV:

NEW

CEALIFICATION & REVIEN INITIALL

CAN PH 4T

Bil. # F-192

DATE

9-71-48

is 290-1 08

APPROVED:

Lia 85 Lag p2524

11) 1948

FOM HESIONATIONS THOM FEDERAL BERVICE ONLY

SIGNATURE OF EMPLOYEE:

TITLE

ORADE AND BALARY

OFFICE

BRANCH

DIVISION

SECTION

OFFICIAL, STATION

DEPT. OR FIELD

REMARKS:

AGRATURI

іннок - 15 бут 48

(EXECUT LUG FOR ADMI

ele 7/5.

CHIEF, PERSONNEL BRANCHT.

FROM

TO

Asst. Regional Lanager

(Into! ligence Orficor) ' Pc 7

0.9.50

P-7, Sir ea pos.

get P-7 fantasino orion) is.

P-8, 710, 305.00 p.a.

Operations

Operations

Contact

Contact Br

Control

New Orleans Office

Southern I.A.0.

New Orleans, Louisiana

Field

New Orleans, Louisiand

Field

130

ORM NI

СТ 194637-

ORGE G.

CAREY

Assistar. 'Director for Operations

RESINGS

(45148

---

## Page 79

SAMARO DIM

30 10 PARRI

UNITID STATES

COMMISSION

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

MILDEN INITIAL LASTI

JOURNAL CHANTIONI

PORN A!

DVOGLE BUREAU NO. INDON

130

DB1 (60) 130

TRisT Po nority Sou of the followine action

3 NATURE UF ACTION SUSA STANDARO TEAMINOLOGTI

minster à Premotien

20/2/1900

but employ men

• LIFECTIVE DATE.

S990968

9/27/1948

1 CIVIL SARDICE ON OTHEM LEGAL AUTHONITY

schedule 4rd9

MY POSITION TITLE

" SAAVICE. GRADE.

• $20,303.00 p00 one

Operations

Contaat

Control

Douthem I.A.0.

10 ORGANIZATIONAL

DESIGNATIONS

Operationa

Contaot Branah

How Orleans 018109

18 MEARQUARTERS

soy oren, Loulelana

Blou Orlenno, Loudatena

DLPARIMENTAL

12 FIELD OR DEPT L

I/FIELO

DEPARTMINTAL

IL. REMARKS

Ne+ 084144480

heo.

9|29140

IS METERAN'S POTELNENLI

RACE

H

A GOLFT

WisE wire

APPROPRIATION

FROM

•; 6.

A

2193900

529-303

4.

Reapon Panet

14 SIGNATURE UH UINER AUTHENTICATION

16 POSILION CLASSIFICATION ACTION

MIE! VICE:

REal

Du. -192

22/4/47

20

SOFIREMENT SC

21 DATE OF OATH

(ACCESSIONS ONLY)

22 LIGAL RESIDENCE

Lontadem

" u.

CUT FRIGATIO BARICE 1048

PERSONNEL FOLDER COPY

---

## Page 80

#TARDARO PONS DEL DE

CONFIDENTIAI

C-la95

Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO

'Executive for Adriniatration and Management

FROM : Asaistant Director for Operations

SUBJECT: Roconmendation for Prenotion of

DATE: SEP 15 1014

1o It is requested that the attached recomandation for

promotion of

from PoT to PB be approved

can that he Pa ran do one in rative the rudson io

No. 2010

This recommendation la based upon the fact he has

served in hia present capscity as Acting Chief, Now Orleans Office,

00/C, for approximataly one year and his performance of duty has been

outstandinge,

enterod on duty as Acting Chief, New Orleans

office, 00/C,.on 9 Septembor 1947 1n which capacity he 1e st111

serving.

The position of Chief, New Orleans Office, has been

allocated as a P-8.

Subsequent to assuming his duties as Acting Chief of the

New Orleans Office,

displayed great initiative and

unusual ability in planning his organization and without any loas

I time, placed it on a highly productive basis. l

has not

overlookod any possible sources of intelligence within his area, and 18

submitting extremely valuablo reports, partierlarly those that pertain

to Intin America.

office has produced

comprehensive roports on the intollipence potentialitios of Houston,

convinoing this office that field offioes

n both localities will be justifled

4o dr. Burke's accomplishments as Acting chief, New Orleans

Office have been outstanding.

Due to his unusual Leadershin the

morale of his office personnel has been mainteined at a high level,

despite hoary working conditions.

5. L

received an A.B. degree from Loyola University,

New Orleans, in 1919 and ILB degrees from Harvard law School and

Tulane (niversity in 1923 and 1925 respectivaly.

Ir. addition, he

apent one jear of study at Cambridge University, England, Upon

graduation from law school, he became aifflisted with various

prominent law firms in Nev

Orleans, and in 1937 established his

own firm which he operated on a successful level until his entry

Into the military service during world iar II.

has an outstanding military record, having

served esprosestals thrae yours in the l. S. Larine Corpa during

World lar II, and being honorably released fron duty with the rank

He CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 81

14-00001

CONFIDENTAL

of Major: During his tour of duty with the U.S. larine Corps, he served

In the capacity of liaison officer with Sélective Service and

later, as legal officer with the Fourth larine Division In the

Pacifie.

wide acquaintanceship in New Crleans,l

By tarconip in eviden and military esportence and

is exceptionally

woll qualifled for his present assignment and i3 performing. his

dutles, in an outstanding manner. In view of his superior accomplish

ments and contributions to tho succesaful operation of the Contaot

Branck, It 1s strongly rocommended that_

] promotion to

the grace of P-8 be approved...

TramS Clairy

GEORGE G. CAREY

--CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 82

1d-0d0d

19 lay 1968

?. 0. Box 10b

Rch orInana,?, Loutstana

Dear

Prlor to Iravina Cli, I want to record my alricero

appreciation of to fine des dono by cou In Mer Urleans.

Your acriovosent le all the toro noteorthe vien 1t

1a roceriored tint you strtod in ziur cit: sinclohanded

and wit: litolo puldance or proceleros, tithin tie space

ot lasa tian a vort, jou lare crsaced an effoctive fiold

eifico wiich In now naking a sigolficant contribution to

national arbolll ence.

Insectiona reveal fit your polationa vis! the local

Armand Penand monrogentn'tlves no soll nu wich inur aliente

are excollent. Nocod niso 1

": luch norale in your

office.

Pleazo accept my cengratulrt one for thie aplandid

racon and accept, no iratltare for tor lorel support.

Witi bect ylohes for deir continued succore,

Very sincoroly:

EDIN L. STURT

Tigadier Jonsrul, Tu

salstant rirgotor fcr Operation

..:

ELS: In

008

Porsonnel Pileef

Chief, 00/c

---

## Page 83

1d-0d0d

Standard For Sa. 11. Her.

care or vasse

REPORT OF

EFFICIENCY RATING

Pastert Ru

30- R018

Assinaral' espures Mar. 30, 1918.

ADMINISTRATIVE-L'NOFFICIAL

PALATIONAL A TRIAL PENED i

A6 o8-* 3/32/49

hased on performaner during period from.

9/9/47

• 20..... 3/33/48

Name or epita

Carations. fontact

Katallicence epite naran

Oran atre Indicato

pre-ria, unit, Bald riation)

ON LINES BELOW.

MARK EMPLOYEE

it adequate

-

il weak

f. if outstanding

1: Study cre inscructions in the. Rating Orcial's Guide, C. S. C. Form

•CHECK'ONES

Underline the elements which are esperially important in the position..

Administrative,

Rate only on elements pertinent in the pretion.

a. Do mis rate on elements in irain exerpt for employees in admin-

supervisory.or

istratist, supervisors, of manning falsitions

planning..

3. Raze

suministrative,

supertiairs,

and planning functions on

elemeris in ilalies.

(1) Maintenance of equipment, fools, instrumenta

(2)

Mechanical skill.

(3) Skill in

the application of rechniques and pro

cedures.

- (4) Presentability of work (app.opriateness of ar

rangenient and appearance of work).

.. (5) Attention. to bruad phases of asignments.

(6)

Attention to pertinent detail. •

(7)

Accuracy of operations

(8)

Accuracy of final results.

(9)

Accuracy of judgmenis or decisions.

Elloctinsaus in erasenting idess or facts

Industry.

. (12)

Rate of progress on or completion of assign-

ments,

-(23) Amount of prettie moo palach (is mars

"Yesor noy"

-(hi) Ability in organize his wors

t. (15) Effeitiveness in

meeting and dealing with

others.

... (16) Cooperativeness.

. (17) Initiative.

.T. (18) Resourcefulness

- (19) Dependability.

-(20) Physical Atness for the mork

All others.:

Ti) Erectiveness in planning hroad programs.

-(93) Enfeetirennes in mlaping the work program to.

опишет от pelaled prgrams.

(29) Ejectiveness in devising procedures.

Ten Efectiveness in laying out work and establishe

standards of

performance for

subasali-

mates.

= (es) Edictireness in directing, reviewing, und check

ing the work of subordinates.

I (9). Epertireness

in

instructin

training, and

irreloping subordinates in the nort

t(2:) Edictirences in promoting high working morale.

+ (2) Emertireness in determining space, personnel.

and equipment seeds

is. (99) Erectivenest in telling

and obtaining acher

race to time limits and deadlines.

# (sU) Ability to male decisions.

ma. (31) Edectiveness

delegating cieuriy defined

aninority to uch

STATS ANY OTHER KLEMENTS CONSIDERED

.(A)..

- (B)

= (C)

STANDARD

Derinsions mast be esplained on reverse aldo al cids fore

tajeelies

webber

Adjartino

rating

Excellent

Rating

official..

Plus marks on all underlined elements, and no minus marks.

Plus marks on at least half of the underlined elements, and so rainus

marKs-----------

Check mare on erompensa a by pee if underined element ast any

V'ery good

Reviewing

E

Good

Fair

Unsatisfactory

(Date)

Rating aproid by eftieney ratine anite a Report to employe teasi

I A. ASTHMETS POSTPHIN OPPRES 80-298778

---

## Page 84

16866

Analutant Dirastor fer Oporatioin

Doertire Direoter

Identifiantion for Conteot Spoetallete

8 Dotabor 1949% 111

Do Attached airos.

The original letters of Introiuotion datod POetober 1947, olgned

by the Dirostor of Contral Intolllionco, rogletration mber 106, eopy'1 - 3.

to bo lanced to l

of your costet brandt, and coples d and s for record purposon..

Do Thrso original lottoro of Introduotion dated & October 1947, signod

Dy the Mriotor of Contral IntollIrones, rogletration numbor 105, copy 1 = 3,

to bo lassed to r. Jey

Bi lo Roovos, Chlof of the Pittsburgh offico of your

Contart Sranal; and soplon d'ad 5 for rocord purposes.

5313232

Those original lottors of lutroduction dated 9 Ootobor à04%, olgod

by tho Diroster of Central Intollizonoo, regiatration nunder 108, copy 1 - 5.

to bo lamod to Bir. Harrison lo Roynolda, Chlof a° the Boston offloe of your

Smple of letter of introduction to bo usod in conoction vita above

lettors, to be written and algood in onch onne by the flold offlos shier

concerned.

Tha Assistant Diroutor for Oporatlens my roguet additional airdlar

lotters when ner flold offloos of the Contact Branch aro ostablished and when

old offluo erlofa aro oranged.

Inetresions relativo' to socounting for the regiotered lotters almod by

tho Diraotor will bo lasued to you direot froa the Contral Rosards Divisioa of

the Servioas Brases, Adil.

" The chles, Perionol Branch, Aal, "1ll placo a notation with the person-

nol recorda of enes fiold office chlof to when these lottora are lacued, and sill

bo responsible that there individuals are not roassinod or separatod until these

rigidiered lostora bary boes appearted for an withdrawn for dostrustson.

6.

Pha Asslatant Dirootor for Oporations and the Executivo for Insoootion sad

Fogarity vlll euso such Inspootions to bo nodo or the une of those menno of identi

Mention as will Invure mintenanes of adoquate seourity la connostion thereith.

FOR TUS DIRECTOR OF CETITAL INTELLITENCES

Lo lo SHAYHON

Aoting Frvertire Diranter

1. Lte fra 1º1 ro

Toples 1-5) Exector ArM.

J. " Lo Raorea (coples los)

% Ltr tra 20i re B

---

## Page 85

lie walla.

12 Sepienter 194?

SPORANDUM TO:

Chief, Personnel Sranch

Executive for & M

SUBJECT:

RÉFERENCE:

Detall of

20-34 9 1960n02 otton Request, " dated

It 1s hereby requestad that your records to narked

to show that l

Jhas teen designated Acting Manager

of the New Orleans Interagezey Office.

It.is not intended

to recruit anyone against ete PaS lanager posicion.

Erecutive Offleer

Contact, Branch

---

## Page 86

AFFIDAVIT

STRIKING

AGAINST THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE GRULP

LOUREAU ON OFFICER

LACE OF RAPLOYMEN

1.

- DO HEREBY SWEAR (OR AFFIRM)

TMAS I AM NOT ENGAGED IN ANY STRINE AGAINST THE GOVERAMENT OF THE UNITED

STATES AND THAT I WILL NOT SO ENGAGE NHILE AN EMPLOVEE OF THE LOVERNMENT

OF THE

UNITED

STATES: THAT 1 AMNOT A MEMBER OF AN ORGANIZATION OF GOVERN.

MENT EMPLOYEES THAT ASSERTS THE RIGHT TO STAÏRE AGAINST TNE GUVEANMENT OF

THE UNITEO STATES, ANO THAT I WILL NOTANILE A GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEE BECOME

A MEMBER OF SUCH AN ORGANIZATION.

SUBSCRIDED AND SWORN TO BEFORE ME

THIS

DAY OF

September

_19 117Ar Hashington. STATE OF D. Co

Appointrent "lerk

linapter Les, TIElo II, See. 206

Ast of June 26, 1943

B0P10: 37.80

115800

---

## Page 87

14-00009

Meanilong Firm

Sis, Gen

mal japanty 2R, 174)

Or

CEITRAL INTELLIGENCE DROU!

(Department or Estist dishmine)

'H OF OFFICE, AFFIDAVIT,

AND

DECLARATION OF APPOINTEE

WASHINGTON, D. C.

OATH OF

OFFICE

B.

AFTIDAVIT

C.

DECLARATION

OF APPOINTEE

Do solemnly swoar (or allirm) that I will support and dolend the constitution of the Uniled

States aguinst all enemies, foreign and domestic; that I will biar trüe laith and alloglance

to tho same: that I take this obligation Irely, without any mental reservation or purpose of

ovasion: and that I will well and faithfully discharge the duties of the ofice on which I am

about to enter. SO HELP ME GOD.

r.

Do further swear (or affirm) that i do not advocate, nor cim l a member of any political party

or organization that advocates the overthrow of the Governmont of the United Staics by force

or violence; and that during such time as l am an employee of the Federal Govurnment, I will

not advocal nor become a member of any political party or organization that advocates the

overthrow of the Governinent of the United States by force or violence.

Do furthor certify that (1) I have not paid or olfered or promised to pay any money or other

thing of value lo any person, firm, or corporation for the use of influence to procure my appoint-

mont; (2) I will inform myself of and observe the provisions of the Civil Service law and rules

and Exucutivo orders concerning political activity, political assessments, etc., a quotod on

the atlached Information for Appointee, and [strike out eithor (3) or (4)]

(3) the answers given by me in the Declaration of Appointee on the reverse of this sheel.

are true and correct;

(4) the antwers containod in my Application for Federal Employmeat, Form No...

dater

, filed with the above-hamed department

or establishment, which I have revlewed, are true and correct as of this date, ex-

cepl for the following (if necessary, use additional sheet; il no exteptions write

"none"; Il (1hjs executod, tho revorse of this sheet need not be used);?

11 th

Subscribed and sworn before me this ...:

70tr day of

at ---

Washington

Sept enber

Do C.

V.

.... A. D., 19.47

(Chty)

Chapter 145, Title II, Sce. 2Cf

(SEALI

Aot of June 26, 1943

Appointment Clerk

NOTE. - Il the oath is taken helore a Notary Public the date ol expiration of lus commission should be shows

18 SeptenDer 1941

ance on Duly)

Asst. BeGlonal Lanagore Pole selle 50

(Puriban lo wluch appointal

220ct 1800

xie de Binh)

---

## Page 88

Thio forra, it sonuiroil de to to cot

lar cancelalion of applition ur dieti

I piane dis 6 300

DECLARATION OF APPOINTEE

darlanshus mil the reade

Chanter Avenne, Man. Oleans

15 da

unfa

6300 l Charles Ain

New Orleans

La

No strom nueline, le

Rotators

shis

A Placo al birch.....

New Orleans.

Indicato "Yes"' on, "Ho onomer by placing d in surger column

9. Aro you a alizer of the Untired Stales? .....u:...

11 foreign l<

farip a thou direct him sation

_12) the agency in sennection with chis erprántmone?..

Yes

No

¡Saila or Coumini

12 Spaste IT intrial ansorera du other queudions.

ITEM

Airsa la lost cadma numbers ol ituma to which stetuiti answere apply

8.

x.

unlap 1h0 United Stokes

ADARITY K

". Do you sergry any ponden

.X..

Mama SINS

Cy to we see use wi.

10. Sinco

are and illross of

as a

estherner)?

INSTRUCTIONS TO APPOINTING OFFICER

Some nice

23ST

Commission

•ч.-

Facial cements.

(3) Calizenship. -The

B0474..174.8: ACT

• Le questora

ser rene portence should the ruterread tu the

tis misera

hate the leu. 21 Ma

# PRI4198 689165 1457938-8

---

## Page 89

STANCARDIONAS APARTI

CHEN SEE

Aleision

H3 113919 100

FORE APPIGEO

BUDIT MEAN TO 955e

i CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE GRES

234032

hit to monty you of the followin

NATURE ÓF ACTIÓN IS STANDANO YEHA

Ense tell Apolitiont

* HELD

1J. REMANKS

181(g)

230

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

10A640 + 26000140

S'ALIANAL ONALTIONAU

10/22/2000

"A DATE

9. Septesher 196%

employment:

•E EFFECTIVE DATE

9/9/1997

IT CIVIL SENICE OR OTHER LEGAL AUTHORITY

chodulo A-zo

& POSITION TITLE

• SERVICE GRADI

ALARI

Annistant Festonel Manger

(Intal(1-0000 0181095)

17 83179:50 per an

Operations

Contaot

- Contrad.

Southern I A 0,

• Iow Orleone, Loilalas.

IFIELD

DEPARTMENTAL

10 ORGAAIZATIONAL

DESIGRATIOAS

18 MEADQUARTERS

FIELD OR DETE

Ho-stallo Affidavit has boen propory empoutal.

tila aspolntant 1o mado subjoot to the pattersto

um Jocion of a trial pariod of one your

IS VETERANS PREFEPENCE

MONE: SPY ! .

19 POMS.

31548, HURL 141002 3

SER i RACE: "O APPROPRIATION

FADM:

M

10

2135900.002

528 143

Aoting Chlor, Ferroral Branh

I SIGNATURE OR UTHER AUTHENTiCÃTION

116 POSITION CLASSIFICATION ACTION"

RET: VICE LA REAL!

Ba. 7-27.01 200.

3/2/47

17:6

20 SUBJECT TO C

21. DATE OF DATH

22 LEGAL RESIDENCE

ETIREMENd ACT

NES - M01

•ACCESSINS ONLYS

Ii Soptember t

Loo1stans

WU & GOLARAMDLT PAINTING GIFICE 184: -71301

4. PERSONNEL FOLDER COPY

---

## Page 90

1d-0d0d

CUINIGLINIAL

SECURITY OFFICE

Investieation Report

CONFIDENTIAL

Subject

To:

Crlel, cordounol Brarch

1. "Investigation directed by: tii

2.

Sources of ioformation:

3.

Remarke

Date: 28 Auguct 1947

Nümber: 32450

4.

Rocommendarion:

SECOFODN ARROGIiAL FECOONIVUEO.

INOUOr GUB:ECT

1O, THE.

ATCEDD: DE OROOCAIROY INICHAIAT:UN

iifulit.

•.!*

ĂN VÀY 5 3

JAYS

LACH AREVE GATE.

iratenl dorcos ufiro cein

aerRCtAL

FECONE?

ANVALID.

By osese

securily orticor;

Enlal P. USISS

Jin

CONFIDENTIAL

aiiidertlirl

FORA

DEE

NO.

1040

38.100

&878

---

## Page 91

NAME:

NATURE OF ACTION:

EFFECTIVE BATS:

263 Sepenter 1917

LAST WORKING

FOR REUANATIONS FRON FEDERAL SERVICE ONLY

SIGNATURE OF EXPLOYEE:

* HERSONNEL ACTION REQUEST

HUNGHT

2155900

5asx

CLASSIFICATIION

1A

vV

NEW

EMPLOYMENT

148-42

9-2-41

86 2155200.001

528-

I DATE

071 8-6-47

3/4/41

17/55/42

Ache tile 0-220

118%547

FROM

TO

asit

TITLE

ORADE AND SALARY

OFFICE

Operationa

DRINCH

Contact

DIVISION

Control

SECTION

-A..

OFFICIAL STATION i

DEPT ON FIELD

d.P:

Field

HEMARIS: * According to travel rejelationo.

forms 3S-1, 57, copy of Priority Fequest letters attached.

Jeer. 1/21

Dio Contre Apprais 501 popoint te

grado Pal at entranco salary

of 38179,50 subject to security clearmoo.

FOR THE DCIS

18-29

Wait

24xсh. 0.4.8.д

WEAR

Captrin,

UCH

Executive Director p?

DATE

RECOMWESDED ONE CE ARE HE. OF AOSINISTERATIVE OFFICER

Dear 3ell

710-47

FORM NO

ОСТ 194637-3

Brits

:179-0

(1514)

---

## Page 92

1!

&

(2)

6300 St. Chirles Spenno, Hay Orlesse 18, to

6 vely

47

11 July

COMPACT, InVItAl to Vashlagton for Intorton A Introduelory coupee

B 1/4 dayw

85.30

Pril'on Orlecas, Ião to D.O.

a retam

Carl fron ebatlon to botal A potam

31.50

92. 36

• 40

$784.28

10, My 1948 priate o

TO BAPC!"

nailerat

TOntad 4119:25

PhIl A09

6032

€ 120)

• Cx

72-22

PERSONAL PUOCURIAZIS IN:FION

CacO

JOCE

1: 00

1 50

47

---

## Page 93

CONFIDENTAL

• suy ite

Exacutive for Inspootione ant Security

In compllanco with CIO Diroosive 15 and with authority Iron

tho Projocto Foris Cantitoo,

this bronah will pon in

Offico In Ner Orlenso, Loutatana na soon sa che seodesary poreonnal

my bo procosuad for emmloymont.

Thio Southonider iron of tho

Unitol Stries represento a fertile flold for the oporatloan of tha

•Contact Breach and 18 la deened advisable to opda 1 For Orleans

office no she carilout justole dace..

a natlou of you Orloans, a conduado

of Marvani si Priso Univeralty In Schoole and n former Enjor

In the U. S. Mariao Corra la undor conelderation for eployment as to

Actl=, Roglonal Masagor lar this offico,

In order that hie explo

mant may be offoctor In be shortest poa:101n tiro, 1º la rospectfully

rouented that a pricrity security lavestigation be granted on tide

Individual,

Is la roulleed that the totol sundor of allovable

priority Inrostig:issas 1o very lisited, but do the lastant onse,

the circungtonece ers niob that the com llance with this requent will

masurably ald lu tro sacoraliahnert of tha alselon of tris branch.

Ja'n F. Flake

Assistant Frecutive. Officer

controt trench

-.:

---

## Page 94

SECRET

1G.1197

DESCRIFTRON FERM

coi. leted isce note

betton of circe)

accom-ang royal for alicion of candidate

Aszeisrent or

"ratning

Classos)

Roqueat for:

(a) Agnesement XXLe

(b) Tratniny.

candidato's race in full:

Cover name It Eccessary:

Date: July ?, 1947

Age 16097-

_MarItal Status: Marrlod. Branch: Contact. Deck: Flold

specifle statlos to which candidute ls soing:- Now Orland, Le

For consultation call:

Ceorze

B. Uckanus

8.311

Branch Citicer Sponsoring Candidate Phone Extension

Has Security Checks been complotod?.

Can B.

Ste

Bidg

103

Roon No:

Type of Cover:-

Tuilitary: Gort. Official; Profossional; Businoss; eti.)

Titlo Of projected aasignmont: (a) Contact Spectallat (b) Actino fazicoal Marajer

C1vll Sorvice classification and nalary levol of projectod postion: P-7 @ 0179.50

What will

apocifle. dutios

of the

candidato?

description 1s essential; a goneral job

- 8131-

organize and run the New Orleano Inter agency offico in the Initial stages

Has to establish and maintain contact sith tho bof exocutlves of American

businasa, sodiatrial and aducational lastltuti: nas Must be able to sall

CIa to than, fata tboir coniidence and establind a discract channal throug

intch all coralgn tatalligance avallablo ta those arganizationa can elon

to bia offices

What uro the promotional opportunitles in tho projocted position? — dood

What will be the adrinistrativo or supervisory rosponsibliitios of the candidato?

(Il none, write "none":) May aventually suvo to diract the activitlas of one

P-6 and ano Gi?-%.

Will tho candliate work alone or with othor peoplo? — kith atbera.

It the latter, kow many and what will be the candidate's actual working rolationship

to them, e los closely e sorative or relatively independ

? Tha tra vantlaned

abover Close cooperatlon.

WIll the candidate be working directly under a supervioing offluor? No

If not, how will ils work be directed and reviewed? By washington

What will be the ilving and working conditions under which the candidate is expected

to oporato?

asy be onlited in the

POT 194651-32001945

=aj be used)

such as student's

une or specific misslon

isired by the desk.

SECRET

(over)

---

## Page 95

14-00000

SEMET

aas apocial quaileronesons do you nich the candlaner cosied for? -donog of deeurity

as ho must lIvo a normal life in his om homo town whilo conducting a

decroot-operation, no:1+1-10-41007101n0t betwoon valuablo intellenco

1-coriation and sorthless.

abliltj. to arrange facts cogontly on paper.

Feet-and-diecretlen-

T:atipiriod and

tape of truinlue do considered noccuiar; for the condianto egrore

rascement in the fieldi about thrao weene in lead Offtoe-and-then Inter trency

ara: speclal skills or knowledes relaied to the Job does the candidate possesa?.

LiToja Dalvoralty, Men Orloana, 13, 1910, Harvard Lax Sch00l, iI3, 1923.

Load banking; bustious and starino Corpo axperienco.

Indicato

knowledge

("Slight"

"Fair

01*

forelen' langurres:

#0000

Road

Spork .

=..

Re scilowing Information lu required was in the

trainlig:

ci candidates scheduled for

PreTicus

background in Intolligonce nori;-

Foreign rosidenco and toroll

education

docupatioral history: (job descriptions and

dates only) -

Signed: Ero Santo 10.

8d=t0-

Franch Cificer Sponsoring Candidate

SSCRST

lover)

(9691)

---

## Page 96

1d-0d0d

i CONFIDENTIAL

i6 June 1947

Deputy Director, CIG

THOUGH: Chief, Personnel Division

Subjects. Assessment: of

References:

Procedure's Governing Payment of Per Diem

ind Travel, Approved Under Project 00-5.

In accordance with the above roferenced procedures, 1t

13 hereby requested

that approval be granted for payment of

per diem and

travel for the purpose of bringingl

to Washington for assessment.

was recently Interviewed In New Orleans by

Chief,

and Chiet

Fleld Division; of the

Contact Branch of this orrace and is recommended as beans

well qualified for the Regional Vanagership of the New

Orleans Interagency Office.

It 1s. considered that, in view

of the importance of the proposed position to the accomplish

ment of the Contact Branch mission, no final decision as to

his employment should be made without the benefft of assess

ment.

This office 1s anxious to activate the New Orleans

Interagency Office as

soon as possible and requests your

approval in order that an early date for

to Washington may be made.

v1s1t

Sibe

SIBERT

Brigadier General, U.S. A.

• Assistant Director for Operations

toppers

CONFIDENTIAL

---

