# 104-10216-10403

## Page 1

104-10216-10403

MESS.IGE FORY

03Gi

P/u1

70

LAT. G/NH/C/FI

D INDE

SECRET/RYBAT

6i72

7 NO NOO

DAS.

10/JUSL/ 1963

DO FLE IN S FLE A:O.

TO • ROME PARIS LONDON MADRID BERN GENEVA IMMAVE

TROM DIRICTOR.

CONf

se/wik s

NO VR, FILE, ADDR, C/WAS

des, claiR

TC

FL

23 Jum 55 1,

•52:

clse3, cles, clcaz,

SiG SEN

TO BOMB PARI LOND MADR

NO BERN. GNVA WAVB

bi

CHI DIR

CESEHSUZESPIC ANASA

i REP:

MADR 4503 (NOT SEVT ROSS LOST BERY GAVA) (EN 85811) C

1. DEVELOPMENT DESCRIBED REF CONVINCING PROOF THAT ENTIRE AMIASH

GROUP INSECURE AND THAT FURTHER CONTACT WITH KEY MEMBERS OF GRODY

CONSTITUTES MEVICE TO KUBARK OPS AGAINST PEREIRY AS KELL AS TO SECLHITY

KUBARK STAFF PERSONNEL WESTERN EUROPE.

2, UNDER CINCUMSTANCES HQS DESIRES THAT CONTACT WITH KEY MENCIS

OF GROUP DE ELISINATED AS RAPIDLY AS POSSIBLE, AND MIAT ISSETS NIO MAY

BE IN CONTACT WITH INDIVIDUAL HENDERS OF THE GROlD ON PENTPiaALIY

INVOLVED IN AMLASH CONSPIRACY BE FARNED OF DINGER IMPLICIT IN THESE

ASSOCIATIONS AND DIRECTED TO ELIMINATE CONTACTS ASAP.

- 3s. INDIVIDUALS IN WESTERY EUROPE CONSIDERED KEY NONNERS, 0F GROCP

• ARE AMLASH/2, UNSNAFT/9. (PARI: CONCUR TERMINATION UNSVAVU/O ICH

•PARI 1665, HOWEVER WISTL NO FURTHER CONZACT AFTER TRILINARIOS. I

THOUGH NOT A KEY MEMBER OF AMLISA GROUP SUSPORT MAS BLES

ASSOCIATED WITH GROUP MEMBERS. THUS IQS CONCERVED HOW DEEPLY QUSPORT/1

COMMITTED TO AMLASI GROUP AND DEG'SE TO MIICH HE COMPROMISED BY GROCK'S

INDISCRETIONS BELIEVE EXFAUSTIVE DEBRIPPING, REASSESSMENg AND.

LOFLUTTER QUSPORI/1 MILL BE NECESSARY TO DETIRMINE HIS BASIC LOYALTIES

COORRINATIRA QUOLELES

#ILIADING OFFICER

GoMeteries

23-1318 E CRE E/RYBAT

OFFICE®

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITED.

Copy Nia

1, 18%

---

## Page 2

14-00000

ORK.

DY

DATE !

10

MOM DIRICTOR:

CONA

MESSAGE FORM

E CRE T/SYBAT

LET POUTING:

• NO INDEE

L FU IN ES FU NO.

•* INJO

PAGE THO

10

22:113

AND FUTURE KUBARE BOLE.

FOLLOWING PERSONS THOUGH NOT KUBARK ASSETS, HAVE INTIMATE

KNOWLEDGE AYLASH AFFAIRS AND SOME HAVE EAD AD HOC CONTACT WITH KUDAI:

STAFFERS, THERE IS TO BE NO CONTACT WITH THEM IN THE FUTURE. THEY ARE

OFTED BECAUSE THEY EITHER LIVE IN EUROPE OR HAVE THE NEANS TO TRAVEL TO

EUROPE.

A. VICTOR (ESPINOSA), U.S.

B. RAPAEL (GARCIA-BANGO), U:S: DidI

SCO JUAN (VENTURA) VAINER, RONE. (SEPARATE CABLE POLLOWS).

•DucE De JOSE LUIS (LLOVIO) Y MENENDEZ, PARTS.

E.. LUCIANO (NIEVES) WESTRE, MADRID.

aGo AMERICA (CISNEROS), PARIS.

16.

AHTHI?/& REpRESENTS SPECIAL PROBLEM.

HE PRESENTLY: ONDEBGOING

INTENSIVE INTERROGATION. FUTURE OPS ROLE AS YET UNDETERMINED. WILL

ADVISE ADDEES AS APPROPRIATE.

CTa UNDER NO CIRCUMSTANCES ARE NEWLY ASSIGNED STAFP PERSONNEL OR

NEIL RECRUITED AGENTS TO BE EXPOSED IN ANT MANNER TO ANY PRESENT OR

INSELERAG AMIAS GROUP

A SHOULD BE HANDLED BY CASE OPFICERS PRESENTLY FAMILIAR WITH THE ASSETS.

ENDe 0P00:0SS1AGICERE

CONT

##LEASING OFFICER

SE CRE TRYBAT

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER TMAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PRONIBITEC.

---

## Page 3

14-00000

300.

DATE,

MESSAGE PORM

IS E C RE T/ RYBAT

O NOD

O NO DOU

DIES IN ESPINO

ROUTING

wigh in

MOM DIRECTOR

CONG.

PAGE THPEE

INFO

ONE DIR

22113

:""i

c/M11/C/PI.

c/1H/C/350.

Le Engag

k) tin

EE/S/s %:

Thomas I thule

THIELE

PEPIHATISO OF

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITED.

= DESMOND FITZGERALD

C/WH

АПРИФАТІСАТІШ

OFPICE

Cạpy Ma

---

