# 104-10308-10208

## Page 1

104-10308-10208

UNCLASSIFIED

iNAL

ROUTING AND RECORD SHELL

CONFE VITAL

SECRET

SUBJECT: (Optional)

FROM:

WH/4/EXO

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and

building)

1.

2.

3.

DATE

RECEIVED

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

FORWARDED

NO.

DATE

5 July 1960

COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom

to whom.

Draw a line across column after each comment.)

(MANEY)OS

s.

PROP

6.

7.

8.

Alice

Kay

Fats

mone

FILE TEMpT

KHRUSNCHiEL

VISIT

Mussien

10.

11.

12.

13.

unla, (13%

west tip,

File.

Guidance

15.

FORM

FORE SO 610 USE PREVOUS

SECRET

• CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

U.S. GOVERNMENT PRISTING OFFICE: 19580-476731

---

## Page 2

13-00000

C

5 JUL ISCO

MEMOR:MOOK FOR: Director of Central Intelligence

VIA:

SUDICCT:

Deputy Director (Flaus)

Operational Exploltation of Khrushcher Visit to Cuba

1. This memorandur is for the Director's information only and does

not roguire action.

An Invitation by the Covernment of Cuba to Khrughchev to visit

that coutry has bean ofiicially accopted, but as yet no dofinite time has

been set.

There has been speculation that Khrushchew woald arrive in

Habana for the 26t of July celebrations, wbile a preas report, confirming

a statement of the Soviet Ambassador in Mexico, predicts the arrival for

sagust.

Earlier reports had suggested December 1450 or January 1961

as possible dates.

3. It 1s felt that a successful vialt by Khrushcher to Cuba would assist

farther in the establishment ot & aoild Soviet understanding with that country,

with distarbing ovartones on the possible establishment oi closer Soviet

relationohipo in other part of Latin America, For this reason it lo

¡desirable to prevent the visit or to counteract it by a show of massive

opposition by the Cuban people.

%. On 2l Jane the Habana Station was ashed for its views on posstue

plans. In the exchange of cables that has followed, the Statlos and Headquarer:

are won in agreement that the best course of action lies la iuo operation.

First, a mansive church manifeatation or rally to be called for some otto:

purposs would afford the peoplo oi Cuba an obvious way to espresa their

protest, Second, the instigation of sumors that Khruahchar's life will be

in danger while in Cuba from a well-plannod assassination attempt would

be propagated from other latin american countries.

5. Becsuse of the need of avolding aclion in Cuba di: fais irattorti

would imperil Station assets, It has boon detecsined that such assees word!

be uned only an a reons of dustigating the church to hold the rally.

6. The latese report from liabana indicalus that plens are going

satialactorily. (Bishop Boza Masvlis)is described as enthused about the

06

---

## Page 3

13-00000

STORE

OB

Idea.

those Lavasilda, a prominond lay leador, ha is row violing

Carsguay to colicis the súppore of the local Elsaap.

mimilar suppor la santiago.

Tantative plans call for a congress os rally

an insun ption Day, 15 July.

i, Tha Station has asked that the entire effort begin with cuba,

*ichout initial cutstda

support from (ban eulle gioupe or the sponsore o

the ant-adtro programs on station Haul. & cable has been sant to 16-11

Bogota to have tho CELin)spars almilar rallins throughoat Latio America.

•"d prose assets will by called upon to suppori these and the caban astol.

when plans are firmer.

24

The

Dwill be asked to send one di tis

contacts in the field of journalica to Habans to contact Miicials and 10

visit the oilices of the New China News Agercy. He will bo instrucial lo

ask Coramunist stall memboro there what substance these might be lo

rumors he has heard that an assascinatios attempt on bruchchey will late

place, The same tochnique lo being uned tbrough shreo Cabang living Ir

Miami who ste da constant contact with Cuba. §pecult © #Ji ae•®

will be surlaced on the MAil, program and la cortain controlled latin

prosE nodia.

J. C. Fing

Chie!

Western Hemisphere vivision

Chunderb

5 July 1950

Distribution:

Original and 1 - Addressee

1 - DDCI

d - DDP

1 - C/WHD

1 - C/WH/4

I - Originator

1 - WH/4/Chono

5/11

---

## Page 4

13-00000

---

## Page 5

13-00000

2 July 1960

TO

: C/WH/L

Subject: Khrushchev Visit to Cuba

1o Bäckground. An Imitation to visit Cuba has been exteaded

to Khrushchev by the Governent of Cuba. The invitation has been

accepted, but do definite time has been set..

There has been sons

spoculation that Khrushchey would arrive in Havana In time for the

celebrations of the 26th of July.

The press has reported that be

will arrive in August (a date confirmed by a statement of the Soviet

'Ambassador in Mexico). Other reports say the visit will not take

place for several months, probably in December or January. In any

event we must plan for the possibillty of the July visit.

It has been stated from several sanguine quarters that we

should "do the sane thing to Khrushchev. that the Japs did to Eisen-

hover". This 1s a completoly unrealistic drean.

It is true that i successful Khrushcher visit to Cube

would be the final sure in the construction of a solid Soviet

base in Cuba, with disturbing overtones for the possible construction

for more Soviet ideoligical bases in all of Latin America. For that

reason we are tryiny to do what we can to prevent the viait, or at

least to show a massive sit opposition to 1t.

2.

ExploitationPlang.

On 21 June Hqs sent a cable to Havarz

asking for views on possibility of a major effort to force cancellation

of the visit. A resulting series of cables shows that the station and

headquarters are now in agroement that our best hope lies ir

a. A massive Church manifestation or rally, which

though called for some other purpose, would be to the perple

of Cuba an obvious way to express their protest. And

fron outside Cuba, Instigating of runors that

Khrushcher's life will be in danger fa fron a well-plenned

assassination attenpt.

3. Mi. Helms has told h us that he wants CIA to undertake no

action that will imperil Station eseets. This injunction has placed

on us while we were exchanging cables with Havana.

The rosult is that

station assets are activaly Irstigatirg the church to hold the rally.

A PLAcell cable from Headquarters has instructed the station to

continue this course of action as long as there is "safety in nunbers"

1.0., as long as it is a church action rather that an AMPALM one.

---

## Page 6

13-00000

4. The latest cable from the field (IN 18883) °

reports that

hst plans are going satisfactorily.

the local Rmiß Bishop. (Jose Lavastida) a promient lay leader, 1s

In Santiago to seek the help & of the Santago Bishop.

Tentative

plans call for a congross or rally on Assumption Day, 15 July.

The station has asked that the entire effort at least

begin withir Cuba, without ouside support fron iRd or wrul.

Henisphere Plans. A cable has gone out to CELAM, (in l6-11

asking this Church organization to spark sinilar rallies

support there and the Cuban meeting when ya plans are firner.

controlled a

Havana. He has been instructed to ask these leaders what sub

stance there might be to the rumore he has heard that an attempt

w111 take place.....Rivas, a friend of Rudy Goner, is using the

same titax technique through three Cubans living in Miami

who are constant contact with Cuba.

Speculation on the assassinationittempts will be surfaced

on the WRUL progrum, in AMPACA'S paper, etc.

David A. Pbillips

---

