# 104-10104-10094

## Page 1

104-10104-100941

SiGnet:

06667-0840

24 Ecatuang 1907

ICICRANDJA

SUDJECT: Estinate of Danage Which Could ACcrue 1O CIA

Miami Through Prosecution of the noiaaco

LaSferICI Maltian Invasion Croup

The decision by the Jussice Depatront to socs a

Crand üury indiotment agairst Roinado Lastasios ená cortin •

ün tis associates 15 a porchoialiy e-DiosiNe Ditter talcI

couli casali in estensive corage lo Cil accivitios i

siani.

secent riverse platicity on ine

intional soche asd

Basic national publicity regarding studert end

foundation topios have alrecdy attracted atûcatica of tre

local pross to the CIA in geroral.

Usually any reicreace

to CiA covert activities icads the press to choca files 10r

Faittencos to aay

such cocivities locally. Bonover, icsore

thia action could be jakon, tho siory segerdino che

AnzicAn FouDiation and the dillousicy of Mieni anoke, acd

the cess inacciataly Corccatraded 0n 2215 t0jIC.

The CiA

calos of Stacion loaraed

EbrOugh 10230222 D20S3 COLIaCES

chat this was bertly a natter of luch ard razzly eccause

cristo tecn en tie much pice

Although several caitorials hichly critical

of

cin lave been publishod and the icplay of vire service

cioriss has

boen diven nuch space, as jot thore has beer.

io local follow-up ained aù putting CIA or the CIA Siction

03 Cro S00t.

Lowevor, tha situatich regnias delicate,

even with nuch good will, last neworen carrot

autora to let thersolvos be scoogod by ouicidois coacerning

•cuorios in their ovn back jará.

3.

hoy new story, such as the 22 fesaury Siory in

Pocrusono o1 Cubar pilois foi the Congo, tho possible

results of Inquiry raúc 0a 21

FobIuary by

throe studonis

con-coied with the riversity of mari aouspager tie

aziche, or further cucindoss Concerticg tie

Pas

-Barronn Roundation, could casily tidder gublicaey wiea

2n incvisabie focus

on the South Corpus ci the Criversicy

ci winni and on the liani Station Covos firu.

SEGRET

---

## Page 2

14-00000

Sibil

-I-

06,06

Al. 06 c.

pos iber

ivo entencod their fullost cooporadion corecining tia

¡and Station

and overnli Cih interesis und it is arcic-

ipated they, will continue to co so. Honover, we believe

suare is a practical limitro the enount ci pressure

• Đде;

could stand from

1sniois if there is a sioud ca publicity coccoding in.

29

or its secued Succoi-

* conceivable that/

2a such a sisuation arises,

would feel

sn0.led

case sono action sinodort dierosocieting sas

Tiron any contactalian chol

Since the

Dis ostensibly the tanami

althougs on roderal propeles,

theresulting action night involve a request for the

ccrication of the tennacy agiconent.

5. Even il the above circuastancos did not eniet, te

cuid remin concerned iograding the possible effects of

20 DEOSOCLIION C1 Che 1aSt022C2 82019.

Alesough 20

Sistion agonts or pencons vich von the irani Statio

on these who ball be proscoutca, it wail de very easy fos

the dotonse do crag Cra Micai inco the cacs.

Cho dcaonce

has obly to obtain testimony (true or pestusco) icc- onc

ca cho dofendants, or to sumon is cofchce withess ore 0i

ore dienficoied forner agunts ci toe CIA Station, in

cècr to begin a chain coaction surracing such dotail

Lad mios concerning CIA operations against the Cuban

Given the sizcablo roduccion of irfiltration

ind covert notion aconts during the past yoar, a borezi.

Toeling Of Irustration and lack si supposE iod Cubaa

¡cocon attributed to passive .S. policy sa: iccussion

ind the craluation that Ca: 200 12 Ce cost 221207.143

i Federal agencies contacusang coon, chitus 4i1t be

comptod to sce an autack against Cia is eccorplicars

Several purposes, that is, gaining acquation, black.

Cin, 2nd crerting picsaure ou the U.S. Covernaont 202 a

rolicy change.

129

SEGMET

---

