# 104-10227-10145

## Page 1

104-10227-10145 -

10 Cerebes 1961

MIMORANDUM FOR THE RICORD

Diocossion ulis dir. Barnos conceraing

A. Sabotago Operatione

B. Ralallona with the CRE

PARTICIPANTS:

Masoro. Barnos, Lotorlino, Logby.

Colonel Johnson, Mis, Schroyor Mariag docuaslos

of Hom A enly).

J.. Mt. Sebreyes bogaa the rsoting by ciling lão various papara

prosassod lo tho spocial Grous aloco July ca she subjoci of rabotago.

Ho aldo raierred lo bia actos and lio Direcior'e notos en sald mootinge.

Ho politod est thai, from a lojal standpolas, tiro mas corso quastion.

no to manier no aro authortaod to engago in minor sabotago accivilleo

viterei palarence so the Special Group.

A lo clear khal. out rogaro

lo major cabelago, tha Spacíal Group muol De cooraicod. The lack of

clapity la connetion vila minor sabesago resulta from tha paraceclogy

1s thoso parograpas prefaclag lo paragrache concorned wila sabotago

do tho Ageney's pagor onbinittod la Jaly, m oubotasco lho profaco

atateo this organlood laloral groapa sil so establichad: lhou, dubro-

goal paragrapho soy minor sabotago vili Do placcod. Irom a legal

*tantpoira, somo gootton alghi accordingly arloo as to mbother anl-

Batoral mior sabotago operalluno conid la coadactod. Agalast laio

contingency Tom Parrott speculically adridod Gaseral Maxwell Taylor

da Saturday noda al the fivo oporallons lson running. Geroral laylor

olforod so objoction. Mr. Barna sald that ho vosid sato lala maltos

up witb the Dlrecter and recommosd that, fiat io hoop the racord

'atralgin, sso Diroctos should menitos li as lha nost meoling ol the

. Epoclad Oresp.

"is.

Casuoid un senday.

Allor nome discusaior, dis. iniertine sehed

Colonel Jabasoa 1i ho folt thai Dr. V!IRO reaily bollorod la! he bad

autoriastion from la l'hito Honde and te Sia!» Departmon lo talo

over the collateral groupe ao moll so any laiorna groups, locludiag

---

## Page 2

inolr asborago sod restotanco typo selivilloo indo Caba. Col. Johnoos

sald that ho lolt lial this sas De. MIAC'& bulle!, bus AIIRO roalizad

thare raight be noma catoptions.

Is cortaln arcao Colonol Johneos

fole list Dono duppoTe could Do gIron tO sACHiC CRC activitos: lor

exaroplo, propaçando activiilos ilão 'Uperacion Cirlora." Col. Johaddo

continuad tha! MIñO soamed lo alfer an allernalive to CONTl ACUERO

se hood el the CRE propaganda coction and, contrary to luformation.

¡rom WAVI, DE. MIRO did sel appoar lo de laslatad on lhe removal

al Paala sa acc cutant.

1. Br. Salerlies brougil out the laci thal MilRO Rod boon

• annarod thai ho has a $1, 000, 000 fund daring tho couras of te sent

yuar with virtually no solage altoched, and s licence lo como back and

Bos lor mora, Mr. Hotayllao felt, 1l lao Agoacy acceptod la roaponal.

bilty for pasalag thaso fundo to lilRO, shas to socid bo accepilag ales

Rho rosponaibility 1or the posalula miouos a these lundo, Mereovor.

given ho fact thal MIRO MIll ho takiag gallance 1ren Coodln and

Harwitch, to alemons ol control tich might etherulos have been

enorelied rongh aoditag o accouste and lon muling rocom merdations

mould be virtually noc-astatona. Ms. Barbos seatod a almilas poles el

vier, and remarkod that this coald havo to be todos uy at a sighor.

leval al onco. Ho lson revtered tho davalopraanto al to last lou montha

vich have mado the Agasty'e poolion very dallcalo, Mr. Estarline

tersartod thai leo potential miouse by MIRO ei landa could bocoro a

coures ol embar rodemon to to Administration.

4 Ms. Baroa thea diocuosed to atormativo charnola for

Enking up thia mattor ta tha abanaco of Ar. Bissoll aod Mr. #colmard.

Fla cald ho porocoally felt tho Agaroy mao virtually lacod wita a dociaton

horo el olhos moloting thal li ba ibo chanas! to MIRO and a 100 dis-

eretioa tha channal to elhor Cubas grospa, os sa migas soturo the

respoealMlity ler aoy typo operations boyond straight FI-Cl. A

dociales 1a, lila ares, ho remarhod, resto ites the DCL Ma. Barnos

¡bea sungoctod thes, altos louchlag base alts stato, so, Ma. Esterllao,

As. Jogoy, ant perbapo Colocal Johados abraid escravor to arrango.

an appplatman with Mr. Goodwin ta lo Whirs House and 81 tha: roootlag

almply discais Ilormally tho outiro sirallos el the CRC.

Agira Casol, wH/d

Matribations

Orig: 68 - 6/ C/140

1 • C/WH/4

---

