# 104-10225-10057

## Page 1

104-10225-10057

€A 16:

D.

WhiT:

C/WH/7/DR

eur: 1537

DArE: 11 AUR 66

DIGGKA BY -

FRON: DIRECTOR

comes 121152

FIRID COPY

TCCAFETENTIONT

SECRET

O FILE HIO

O1A0EA

O FILE IN ES PILE NO.

MESSACE FOR"

SE COn: 29

SECRET

201-751754 ,12

SCUTING

5

CORETROY DIRETUAN TO DRANC

INTO: VA

CITE DIRECTOR

27237

TOT SANTO DOMINGO

INFO:

JMWAVE

DYVOUR PBRUMEN AMMUG

REF: SANTO DOSINGO 1555 (IN 71092) EVER

1. HEADQUARTERS TENT ENDORSES STATION VIEWS. DISPAICHES

CITED PARA 1 REF HAVE BEEN CAREFULLY STUDIED HERE AND FOUND MOST

HELPFUL, WE WILL BE COMMENTING IN SOME DETAIL ON SAME BY DISPATCH.

2. AGREE THAT CURRENT PERIOD OF DISORGANIZATION AMONG LEFTIST

PARTIES MAKES THIS IDEAL PERIOD FOR EXPIOITATION, AND HEADQUARTERS

URGES STATION TO MOVE AS RAPIDLY AND FORCEFULLY AS POSSIBLE DURING

THE COMING MONTHS TO TAKE ADVANTAGE OF EVERY POSSIBLE OPENING.

3. SUBJECT OF REF CLEARLY FITS INTO THIS CONTEXT, AND WE.

CONCUR IN PROPOSAL PARA 4 REF. DIR 26638 WAS INTENDED TO OBTAIN

SUNNARY OF STATION PLANNING AND KNOWLEDGE OF SUBJECT STATUS, WHICH

(CONTINUED)

RELEASINO OFFICEA

COORDIMATINE OFFICERS

SECRET

GROUP I

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER

THAN THE ISSUING

OFFICE 1S

PROMIBITEO.

AUTHENTICATIN

---

## Page 2

MESSAGE FORN

TOTAL COPIES:

SECRET

O FILE HIO

O NO IMORN

O FILE IN CO FILE NO.

DAtE

DISGIM DY

- PER.

2

3

O DEGTAOY O RETURN TO - BRAVEN

ROM. OLLICTOR

[I RIO COPY

INTO: VA.. 5168

- TCCANSTPICATIONT

SECRET

PAGE II

TUATE AND TINT PILEST

CITE DIRECTOR

27237

REF PARA 3 PROVIDED, THERE IS CERTAINLY NO QUESTION ABOUT

DESIRABILITY OF APPROACHING SUBJECT. WE TEND TO AGREE WITH

YOUR PARA 5 REF ESTIMATE THAT SUBJECT LIKELY HAS UNDERCOVER

ROLE.

END OF XESSAGE

file

149651

WH COINE TERE

WILLYAN V.

C/WHD

AELEASINO OFFIGÇA

AMMUG-1

pitch

C/WH/C/CICS TYDAL

(TELECORDS

COORSINATINE SPICERS

SECRET

REPRODUET

_. BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE

CROUFI

PROMIBITED.

UTHENTICATIN

DEFICE!

Coop H0.

---

