104-10138-10171

Ler slen

ce te Pe

erent -
~ . ' i
cdeciia
i
i
FORM No, !
To
i



SABO NeBA :

‘s -€ | G

VW damary U
« 7
CORTACE REPORT
AHO : & | former staffer
8799 Bay Pointe Drive
faapa, Florida 33615
813-891-8619 :
SUBJECL: Debriefing on Training and Denolitions Given to Anti-

Castro Cuban Exiles

PLACE : Holiday Inn (fampa: Airport )
Tampa, Florida

TING : 4 Jamary 1977
0900 ~ 145 hours

TEP To debrief A on questions posed tha
Department stice regarding anti-Castro Cuban les. Theso
questions, in ceneral, covered training and explosives/detonation
detiess given to these exiles.

2. Meeting: A tame to my motel room (503) on Frida;
morning at 0900 and departed at 1645. During this time, beth of us
sat in easy chapis in front of a picture widow on the Sth foor - Ur.

& lid 95% of the talking. Neither of us gol up during this veriod,

a strech of almost 8 hours. A- was most intertaining, but o:
inally informative as to specific details on the questions probed
to him, Ho spins a good story and remembers people and places very
well, My bona fides for the meeting was a call from Ms. Sheila
O'Neil to @ ‘{a day before I arrived in Tampa. A is a little
goosy, because of a DEA connection (below), and checked mp ont thru
a phone call to the motel by his wife. Incidentally, I used trig
name with a |

3. Results: @& povered the following topics with ma:

a. Training: On Panama and the facilities used,& the best

| could remember, Ft. Shernan was open in about August or
September 1960 to train Cubans for about a 2 to 3 month period.
There were about 40 to 50 men, mostly ARTIMé followers, When it was
decided a bigger group would be noeded, which later becama Brigade
2505, these people were sent to Rotalhuleu (Guatemala) amdxnth in
abont November 1960, Actually, the group was split, with some going
to Guatemala and others. to.the New Orleans. area, As to other tratning
in Panama, & \|has no knowledge. (NOTE: A jsurgested that Hr,

we Ay >, retired staffer currently in the New Orleans area,
might be a good source, Ax | was c/ops for the invasion Task Force,
as wo¢l as Deputy for PM and C/Ops for JMWAYE at one time.)

‘



ia hb. As Lo explosives, bine del

conprel devises, detonation miterials, ele. civen
id, “Look over the supply mamial for thal Appa ren
es wore given everything that was availale and in larce
quantities,  & [said ha just could not bain to give mea list
of what had beon passed.

sion, A | -

do with these te

e. Infill t After the Ray of Pil
worked with infiltration teams. Tha Agency wo
from roughly 1953 to 1956. ‘Thay were in two catapories. The fir
wore unilateral te trainin: and sponsored by the Agency. The
other calarory we olitical" toans ~ that is political groups in
soutthern Florida who were sponsoring infiltrations into Cuba.

The Agency helped this later m catagory by miving them supplios.

Tn the case of both, they usually made a caches in Cuba. The

unilateral team, as an example, would make a cache on-island, and

another group would pick it up and use it (compartnentation).

In some cases, teams (both unilateral and volitical) would not

actually make the cache and keep the material in Florida, to be -
used later at their own convenience, In addition, we [was positive

that some of Castro's troops obtained some of these cach es, due to

foul-ups and snitchos, These caches containes pistols, rifles and

heavier, monoy and demolitions. Some of the teams cheated by froin:

to the Bahamas and buryinh their stuff on small islands and reporting
back to Florida that they had cached in Cuba, A stated several
times that there was no effective control over the “political”
groups and therefore no control. ofer the material eiven them, from
this, me may su o that Agency equipment (demolition included) was
in the hands of anti-Castro Cubans in south Florida, as well as
‘Castro's Rebel Army on-island,

ng

dq, Brigade. Training: ..Furthor to demolition training. to
Anti-Castro Cubans, A reminded me that shortly after the Brirade
was ransomed from Cuba, Brigade leaders were taken to Palm Beach
and talked with President Kennedy. At that time, the US Govt offered
Brigade members the chance to join the U.S. army. This also included
infil team members, who were completely seperate from the Brigade, and
members of the Brigade airforce. The Army end of this training was
given at Ft. Benning, Georgia and bean in early 1963. ‘There, Brinade
members entered the U.S. Army at roukly equivalent ranks - officers
were made 2nd Lts, They received Ranger training, plus. jump trainina.
Thus, A, said, if any exiles were training in demolations and related
topies, théte best training was probably givon at Ft. Benning. Tost
of these men were in the U.S, Army for either 6 months or one year.

©. Cubana Bombing: & was specifically asked about tho
6 October 1976 bombing the of the Cubana airliner in the Garibbean,

A i said the street-word ahong the Cuban community in south Florida
is that the bom) should have gone off in the plane on the ground. Tho
bombers did not moan to kill all of those people. On BOSCH, the
community does not particularly like him, but admires him because he
had been going at Castro tooth and nail for yoars. They do not like
the idea of terrorism and fault BOSCH and MORALES for this.



( rae TE €

we? vA had read the recent. arbielas in Lhe
pape oduction of Swine Fever inte Cubs by the Aconey
in 19 Ho had no knowledie of this. & didiack 4€ «0 had
cheekedlwith DIA??? Mo said when he had boon with the Aray as a
Speci type, it unbelievesble what the Aray had d

Ant) efary cesiniug in une States. te mentioned an
nxnaxtk a training exerciso in HYC, when a fake substanes was inte-
duced into the water of a hotel where Pres, @isenhowor was stayh
In any event, kyo & said if ne Fever nh introduced
into Cuba, ho wouldn't doubt that tho army/DIA ome hand in ib,

espocially if the so-called sources claimed it cama ont of Fb. Golick,

&. Ass
no knowledge of assassinations, attempts or Plans, by anyone in the
Agency during his tour, Not only wera they prohibited by the Agency,
they vera counter-productive, Tk was explained to him during hi
Agency tour that! there was a good chance of an assa nation back-
firing; that wo (U.S.) are moro vulourable to a inations than
the Cubans or Soviets. The pefore, as far as he wa concarned, they
were strictly verboton, ditoriali ine, Ac! it was too bad
that the upper-echolonsilid not believe in this restriction, On top
of that, they approachél mafiosa to help them. (NOTE A ‘is
rather anti-Kennedy, especially Bobby, with whom he was in a shout in:
match during a hearing on the Bay of Pigs invasion. )

h. As inati Juan Jose Fernyero, a Bay
of Pigs veteran and leader he @ 2506, was runned down 1
week as he loft his homa in Miami, A [said tho vord on the st
among the Ophan, community is that this was done by the DGL as a warnine
to the antiy ubans in Miami Feruyero had no enemies - he was not
into drugs, crimo, politics, ete, By killing hin, the Cubans vere
warning the community that thay could strike anywhere and anyono,
Thus, watch out and lay off Cuba and Cuban citizens. If anyono else
had been killed, perhaps the killing could have been blamed on
the mafia, drug dealers, politicians, ete. A copy of an editorial
from the Tampa*Tribune of 14 Jan 77 is attached, below,

~C-R-E-T

ations by the Agency: A said he had absolutely


5-8-C-R--T

i ¢ oS ¢

i. A nations,
this ease entered 5 convorsatie onal knowle hye
atihapponod, Again, however, ho favo me the "street word,"

Mile on a:
He has ne: pors

of 4

det > bie Cuban cowaunity ing that the same people who did
iat Loporformed the tettalies hergeetngldon, ante froficas
arranged for the Lettalior killing - hired and paid the killar:

For this reason, the Chicaxo Sanity of the Mafia is furious with
Trafieante, because he is/or will bring heat on the Mal Tho
reason for Traficante doing it??? Fidel Castro hired him and paid
him well to do it. The word is Unat Trafiecante has been cooperabtine
with the DGI and Fidel since he ‘departed Cuba, Fidel wanted Ross
killed, because of Rosseli'’s part in the assassination attempt agatnat
Fidel, A emphasized that that this is not his theory, but word
from the street in Miami.

J. CRS Show on Cu! A said C’S is planning a show
on the "Logacy of the Bay of Pigs," which should ba broadeast in
about. May 1977, CBS has already shot xeanx interviexs in Miami,
including ono with Peruyero (above) before he was killed, plus
covering the aftermath of his assassination. Currently, the CSS
crew js in Cuba - they hope to film the beaches at the Pay of Pirs -
which had been suggested to them by’ A. & ‘has also been
interviowed and has given his opinions for the TY showing. while
in Cuba, the CRS crew hopes to also interview Fidel -‘also at the
sucpostion of +. The fellow behind the show is named CRILE and
he has talked té° A i extensively. According to A | the show
would havo boon very anti-Azency in its comments, but ho ~ Ba!
has turnad this around almost 180 dezreosti! As planned, the
show will be two hours and shown in May 1977. :

: ‘a :

k. Brigade 2506: On the Brigado, -& ‘said he had beon
an apolitical organization, Individuals of any political shade had
been mombers and politica had not ‘really entered Brigade Association
business. Last year, however, they joined with Orlando BOSCH, amonr
others, to help form CORKU. Now, the Brigade is embarrassed and wished
they had never joined CORU. They with-drew shortly after the Cubana
bombing in October 76. However, the damage has been done to the
Brigade Association, which A  ‘jconsiders a shame. On the CBS film
(above), A ‘said he was filmed attending an anniversary meeting.
This same meeting was where CBS filmed Peyuyero.

a A & DEA: “hon & retired from tho Arency, ho
moved to Key Wast. Ho camo to the attention of DSA, especially to
Lou Conine, an ex-Agency 6fficer now with DEA, A ‘calls Conino
an SOB and. worse. He went into a long explaination of his activities
with DEA in Key West. -In summary, he was a P/A and ran a string of
informants, Because of internal DEA politics, he was blown and left
dangling on a’string in Key West. He had to leave town within 24
hours and left his people (informants) there without calling or
warning thon, As a result, he lost friends, prestige with his
informants (many of them Cyban exiles) and his business in Key West,
In general torms, he was treated very shabbily by D&A and regrots
ever having mixed with them. He is still in contact with one of

B-C-R-E~0



<. BS

our geal ficery ie - Accopling bo A, GB [will te
returning Lo the Acenay shortly. %3 fis familiar with the
operation in key dest. Another ex-drence employ also in-
volvol iin this operalion, ono e. . The undersiivned know
fn VieSaws - he gas a conbrask aly :

DEA he anickly rose to G3-Lb and was directing the Key
when Lt folded, acconling to A, | A ‘was busted to 63-13 ani
sent back to ington, where he in now working in DEA's Inspse

Diviston (similar to our IG also avare of a

ox-Agoney employee, (for) Qn ? s to no Lo Mexico un
DEA "deep cover Ac ini, to A Lo be invelyed
in assassination oparations anainst Mexican dealers ant push, :
Instead, oe ended up in B12 0 for about a year and is nov

in Miami. The undersigned personal oO » bul did n
know of his spocific assignnent within DEA, (Nov: “hile the ah
is a Little rambling, this is the way.tho debriefine of = & . vent
all afternoon!)

m ai Thad read &
"The Bay of Pigs" before do ni Washington. Lynch explained that
he had dietaled this paper ani had a couple of secretarias type iL
out, It is only in very rough form and he wanted to get his thourhts
down on paper. As he indicates in the paper, he wanted to get the
facts straight. He feels that since he was thero and part of the
invasion, he has a unique view point of the Bay of Pies and wants
to see that hi y re®lects his pobition, As indicated earlier,

A is rather bitte
Camolot. This is reflocted in his manuscript, z
much of his paper had boen "stolen" in that he explained the inva jon,
for instance, to the CBS crew and they were using sono of his material
in the soon to hea be shown program described above. In addition,

@& mentioned that he had spoken to the Agency historian - can't
recall his name - on vho is also writing a book (classified) on the
invasion, As to publication, it seems to be in the distant future.
He does not plan to xo to a publisher, where he would xex raceiv
royalty payments of around 5%. Rather, he. plans to publish on his
own, probably in Miami, and realize close to 100% profit. It mieht
cost him kha in the area of $5,000, but he could realize a profit of
about $30,000 depending on sales.

mannseripl,

n, Mise also spoko about porsonalitios within the
Axency. He mebtioned Ted Shackley, "Dum'Dum"Dinmer, many people in
LAD who had a part in the invasion or JMWAVE, A is a member of
the retired Agency employees association that Davo Paillips formed,
As such, he has appeared several times on Tampa radio and TV shows.
To.me, he appears to be an articulate defender of the Agency.

4, Conclusion: For me, this was a most interesting interview,
As far as results, the inlerviow indicated to me that we can got
broad-brush overviews from retired Azency employees, and fow details,
To answer specific quostions from Cong¥ess and/or the Department of
Justice, we must continue to dig and come up with documents from

S-R-C-R-E-T



(
( “ r

a — ¢

Agoney Cilos., Unfortunnallyr these docunants appear to be most
diffienLt to locate and retrisve, many of them burled in retired
file hojdings. ‘

5. OR
from velired
wie intinwbely involved dn the past : :
which we are interested. This shovld be a salective procass and
used only when we believe the retiree could contribute to our
imaediate inquiry. The documented facts, however, are still nected
to-.anawer questions posed to us officially by other Govarumant.
entities,

‘lo should continue to seek information
s aspecially when i rs that hhey

S-8-C-R-8-T

