# 104-10112-10239

## Page 1

104-10112-10239

112>6?

H1003T

-ù?.

: Chier, ID/3

: Rälph &. Tobiassen

CROZIER, Ross I.

#112 569

RETURNTO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

1.

Attached herato ior concurrenca of the Director of

Security is a menorandum to Chief iH Division indicating

disapproval of a request for use of the Subject as an Ops

Officar in PA-Prop activities at JWAVE in support of Iro

ject MArE.

2. In early 1960 the Subject, then a Career Agent, Was

proposed for conversion to staii employee, contract employee

or independent contractor, of Office o Training.. Tab ¿ con-

sains a resume of Suoject's activities ior this agency from

1sti9 to February 1960 and also indicated disapproval

of subject by the Deputy Director of Security of use of Sub-

jest in any of the aforementioned capacities.

Ihe. DDS at tinat

time indicated Subject would not be approved for usa in any

capacity where he sould have access to official Agency instal-

Iab B is a menorandum dated 2 Harch 1960 to taa 01-

fice of Training indicating disapproval of uss of the subject

in any capacity requiring access

to official installations.

3. On 28. June 1950, (sea Pub C);

i Covert Security Clear-

ance: was granted to Office of Fraining for usa of the Suoject

in connection with training activities ith no access to Agency

Dispos buildings.

He was to remain in his status as Carear Agant.

After a review of information sent to 01r

with this ess, Oir

AbDs/lascided not to use the Subject.

/TOS

4.

On 20 July 1950, (see

Jab D) a Covert Secuito in-

Moval vas granted

10 in Division for use of

the subject in

irenslating

docurents pertuining

to Cuban matters

and 5o as-

pist in Division by maling suggestions cor PP und tIpuposas.

Covert

Security Apreoval spelled out apociricully brat

Monogeet nos

not to nave

access to officicl Aguncy silkings

and

installabiona

and was not to engage in clandestine oper?-

c2oral

mcivities

the United stires.

It was parerstood ti

the suarter

si 1950,

that the sungest tas

1 25000n2d 60

atroup?

12112o2o100 in Cari:c

2200

---

## Page 2

14-00000

29,24

5• Lemorand forwarded to Orfice oi maining und WH

vivision : long vith the above referenced üs0 and OsA set

orth noteworthy and ceroratory information on the subject,

his wife, and several of his wife's relatives.

It was assumed by this office that, in concurrence

with the 20 July 1960 ISi to iN Pivision,

the Sunject had

inned been trinsferred to the Headuuarters area and was being

anilized os incicater in that clecrence to translate docu-

"ents pert inina to Suban matters and to üssist it Division

in IT and FI matters.

7. On 25 Septerber 1961 this office reca-vea & thermo-

fax copy o? u menoranaum dated 15 September 1961 irom Chier,

Wil Division to the Career Agents Panel requesting aproval

for the PCS assignment of tho subject to Jrave, & domestic

baste

This menorandum in no way indicated that Office of

Security approval was requested for this move and it was as-

sumed an appropriate request would be forthcoming..

3. On 13 October 1951 Chief, SD/2 requested from i

Personnel - list of personnel then

assigned to JAVE Who

nad previnusly been utilized under the cover of

This firm was the cover for certain initial

phases of Project Jalb in the Mismi arei.

On 19 October 1961

Ma Division forrded tne requested listine: It showed that

the susject had been opersting us ar Operations Officer under

Jfrom 4 september 1960 to 30 aurust 1961.

to this tims

the office of security was not care thut the

Subject was not in the headquunters unse boins utilized as

set forth in the

OSA of 20 July 1960.

The writer then queried

n/4/Security ans Contract Fersonnel Division, scents Panel:

to ascert. in Subject's

actual status, employment caterory end

manner of use, and to initiate such action as would be necos-

sary to determine that subject's use be cormensurate with his

security clearance.

On 21 December 1961 a mororandum was received from

Chief

WE Division

requesting concurrence in the assignment

of the Subject to Jrave and in icating ho had been assigned

PCS to JAVi on 20 October 1961.

writer then undertook

to detornine how the subject hüd

resigned to Jinate with-

out

rior concurrenes

she tiflos of Security und in violi-

tion of the prior restrictions

is set out in the los Granted

on 20 July 1960.

by me.orancum o 6 February 1962,

to Armstren",

secretary, arents fanel, upon request,

Forwarded

& memorsndum

inciciting thit the PCS move of the Sub-

ject to

TuaTE had been ipproved on 2u septenber 1961 by te

Agents

Panel, subject to prop-i security clearance.

zjma

---

## Page 3

indian?

SD/2

10€

No dereraibrillne, wilt/security,

divised Chief,

in lovember

01

1961 thus

the Subject tis indeed being

utilized at Jaive and had rocess to that o-ficial agency

in-

stallation.

Robert coroney, iii/4/Security advised on this

date that the Subject is bein treated at JimaVi just like all

the Staff arents

E thut o se and in fact häs & desk and office

space in the 5uil112:

11.

1t, is evicent thit the susject is bein utilized in

21. rant violation

oristrictions imposed on his use by the

¿eüt- Director or Securit:. In addition,

the derogatory in-

jobration imoin in

t is onse and set torth in the concurrent

remorindi (see

2.b

nd Tab D), is such that use of Subject

this capucity, where he is in constant association with

Stuff Arents and his :scess to the JiNaVe installation, con-

stitutes " undue secarity hazera.

12.

In view

o? the coove it is recomended thit the at

tacher memorandu.

security disc provina Subject's present use

reuestin- Livice

.s to

the ultimate disposition of Sub-

jeet,

Corrusted

6o the mist, rivisior.

Ralph E, Tobiassen

ph = roblissen

15 F0br...27

1962

£ 3003T

---

