# 104-10433-10039

## Page 1

104-10433-10039

DISPATCH

clict,

SIASHNA.

70

AlEn: Chief

INFO.

FROM

Chief

SUBJECT

Meeting of Dr. Martin Luther KING

ACTION REQUIRED • REFERENCES

For Your Information.

Attachment:

h/w.

Copy of a report passed

to

'Distribution:

w/att.

APPROVED FOR RELEASE

""?

Dato 13 manh 1978

1' CROSS REFERENCE TO

CLASSIFICATION

FAStD

PROCESSINA

ACTIN

MASHED FOR HOPING

ve an 5T0 to us at n

NO INDEXING REQUIRIO-

ONLY QUALIFIED

HEADOVARTERS DESK

CAN BUDGE INDEXING

ARSTRACT

MICROFELIA.

FISHIP D

(Continued) •

rep

OCT 20 1964

DATE DISPATCHED

DATE TYPEO

16 Oct 64

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

35

HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMDEC

---

## Page 2

13-00000

САДІВІРАС : : 1ГР

DIGRATCH SYMBOL AND NUMDER

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

3.

Givon the source of the above report, we

vlew it with

some reserve.

In this connection, we noted the 19 September

issue of L'UNITA, which reflected

an article on KING's private

audlence with Pope Paul held the preceding day. According to

L'UNITA, Immediately after the audienco, in St. Peter's Square,

KING stated that "Popc Paul

was most clear on

the fact that both

he, personally, and the Catholic Church support the cause of

civil rights".

The article also states that in a press confer

once hold at Flumicino Airport aller the audience KING said,

"The Pope will shortly make a publle statement on raclal seg.

regation", We have no other information at this time.

Attached is a copy of the report which we have passed

to the

representative.

---

## Page 3

13-00000

VIA COURIER TOUCH

DISPATH

CLARINA. 49

P'ROCESSING

PHO

POSED.

ACTION:

10

NAMED FCR INDING

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

IYFO.

ONLY QUALIFIED

MER: QUARIENS DESA

CAN JUDGE BATEXING

THOM

RESTRACT

MICROFILAA

TUBJECT

Meeting of Dr. Martin Luther KING with Italian Leftist

ACTION REQUIRED • REFERENCES

"Personalitios

For Your Information.

1.. Following is a translation of a roport on the subject:

"The Mission of Luther KING with the Italian Left", dated

28 September 1964 •

received the report on 1 October 1964

of the anti-racist movement in the United States, met with

various loaders of the Italian Comnunist Paxty (PCI) and of

the Italian Socialist Party (PSI) on 18-September in Rome.

In particular,

KING conferred with PCI Senators Velio SPANO

and Ugo BARTESAGHI, with PSI Duputy LUCIO LUZZATO, and with

Schator Paolo VITTORELLI Of the Italian Socinlist PartsOF

Proletarian Unity. KING discussed with the above-named

politicians the program of demonstrations agninst segrega

tion in the United States, which are to be

organized in

Italy during the months immediately ahead."

2 .

ACLUA

PL15118°

(Continued)

Attachment: h/w

Copy of a report

Distribution:

OCT 20 1964

DATE DISPATCHED

I CROSS REFERENCE TO

CLASSIFICAZION

DATE TYPED

16 Oct

64

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

Pre

APPROVED FRUG PFISEASE

HEADOUARIERS FILE NUMIER

Dale

(38)

---

## Page 4

13-00000

CIA GICATION

GONEL AND HUMILA

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

•3.

we noted the 19 September

issue of L'UNITA, which reflected an article on KING's private

audience with Pope Paul held the preceding day.

According to

L'UNITA, immediately after the audience, in St. Peter's Square,

KING stated that "Pope Paul was most clear on the fact that both

he.g

personally, and the Cathollc Church support the cause of

civil rights".

The article also states that in a press confer

once held at Fiumicino Airport after the audience KING said,

"The Pope will shortly make a public statement on racial seg-

regation". We have no other information at this time.

4. Attached is a copy of the reporti

---

## Page 5

13-00000

DISPATCH

TO

Chief, WE Atti:

CLASSIFICAI: N

FRANTAI

Chief, WE/4

PRO.

POSED

Xx

INFO.

FROM

1/HSD

VIA COURIER FOUCII

PROCESSING

ACTION

MARKED FOR INDEXING

NO INDEXINC REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED

HEADQUARTERS DESK

CAN NUDGE INDEXING

ABSTRACT

MICROFILM

ACCOM

PLISMED

Chief of Station, Rome

SUBJECT

KEYWAY

Meeting of Dr. Martin Luther KING with Italian Leftist

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

-Personalities

For Your Information.

Following is a translation of a report on the subject:

"The Mission of Luther KING with the Italian Left", dated

28 September 1964 and attributed to DEPLENARY/, from

from information coming into the editorial offices

of L'UNITA:

The Station received the report on 1. October 1964 plUt

various leaders of the Italian Communist Party (PCI) and of

the Italian Socialist Party (PSI) on _18-September in Rome.

In particular, KING conferred with PCI Senators Velio SPANO

and Ugo BARTESAGHI, with Psy Deputy Lucio LUZZATO, and with

Senator Paolo VITTORELLI of the Italian Sociallst.Party..Of

Proletarian Unity.

KING discussed with the

above-named

politicians the program of

demonstrations against segrega-

tion in the United States, which are to be

organized in

Italy during the months immediately ahead."

2. The same report was also received from DEDICATOR/4 who

has access to the DEPLENARY establishment and thus it is not

considered as confirming the DEPLINARY/T information.

•(Continued)

Attachment: h/w.

Copy of a report passed to local ODENVY rep.

Distribution:

'I-C/WE, w/att.

CONFIDENTIAL

Downgraded to

00

by authority 2°8 726 1978

date ..

FOLL TEXT COPY -- DO NOT RELEASE

DATE TYPED

ОСТ 20 1964

DATE DISPATCHED

CLASIREATION REVIEWS

-CONDUCTED 1N28.7111971--

'CROSS

перененене

DO MPET CL Ar 00 1829

ran roong en

# 0.9001:10000

CONTAL

16 Oct 64

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

OIRT - 06733

38

HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBER

IN ER 2-Y

tit 76r44t

---

## Page 6

13-00000

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION

SONEDENTIAL

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

OIRT - 06733

3.:

Given the source of the above report, we view it with

In this connection, we noted the 19 September

issue of L'UNITA, which reflected an article on KING's private

audience with Pope Paul held the preceding day.

According to

L'UNITA, Immediately after the audience, in St. Peter's Square,

KING stated that "Pope Paul was most clear on the fact that both

he, personally; and the Catholic Church support the cause of

civil rights".

The article also states that in a press conter-

ence held at Flumicino Airport after the audience KING said,

"The Pope will shortly make a public statement on racial seg

regation". We.

have no other information at this time.

4.

Attached is a copy of the report which we have passed

to the local

ODENVY representative.

brid

RANDOLPH A. MEDEORD

---

## Page 7

13-00000

16. 60 1 6-11

28 SET. 1964

OGGETTO: La missione di Luther king presso le sinistre italiane

VALUTAZIONE: Ottima

FONTE: Attendibile/üu

R: l'Ot61

Luther king, noto pastore protestante negro, e "lea der"

del movimento antirazzista degli Stati Uniti, si è incontrato il 18

settenbre u.s. a Roma con diversi esponenti del P.C.I. e del P.SI.

In modo particolare il King ha conferito con il Sen. Ve=

Lio spano, della vice presidenza della Commissione Centrale di Con

trollo del P.C.I., con l'On. Ugo Bartesaghi (P.C.I.), con l'On. Lu

cio M. Luzzatto del P.S.I.U.P. e con il Sen. Paolo Vittorelli del

P.S.I.*:

Il pastore King ha discusso con i predetti unnini politi

ci il programma di manifestazioni contro il segregazionismo negli

Stati Uniti, che si dovrebbero organizzare nei prossimi mesi in I-

talia.

---

## Page 8

13-00000

святи ва Остіу

Ned 15/10/64 cv)

"Luther king, noto pastore protestante negro, e leader del movimente

antirazzista degli Stati Uniti,si è incontrato 1l 18 settemore u.s.

a Roma con diversi, esponenti del PCI e del PSI In modo particolare

egli ha conferito coll'on Vello Spano, del PCI, coll'on Ugo Bartesa=

ghi (PCI) ;coll'on Lucio: Luzzatto del PSIUP e col senatore Paolo Vit=

torelli del PSI.Il, Pastore King ha discusso con loro le manifesta=:

z1on1 contro 1l: segregazionismo negli Stati Unitliche si dovrebbero

organizzare nel prossimi mesi, in Italia.

---

