104-10072-10420;:

: ac : : SECRET ‘Do Not Reproduce.
: . REQUEST FOR APPROVAL OR, INVESTIGATIVE ACTION —

ways handearry 1 copy of this fo 20 September 1963
CI/Operational Approval and Support Division |FROM:
sues X| Security Support Division/Office of Security Calle
as SUBJECT: = - PROJECT
cpnECT: , THOMAS, Charles William
CRYPTONYM, PSEUDONYM, AKA OR ALIASES. CI/OA FILE NO.
ail 2eilieiex| no: seleweiio:

1. TYPE ACTION, REQUESTED

PROVISIONAL OPERATIONAL APPROVAL * PROVISIONAL PROPRIETARY APPROVAL
OPERATIONAL APPROVAL PROPRIETARY APPROVAL
PROVISIONAL COVERT SECURITY APPROVAL COVERT NAME CHECK

X_| covert security aPprovat SPECIAL tNauiRy (SO field investigation)
COVERT SECURITY APPROVAL FOR LIAISON WITH U.S. OFFICIALS

: 2. SPECIFIC AREA OF USE
ae Washington, De Co
3. FULL DETAILS oF USE
4 requesta that a CSA be cranted to enable consultation on matters of operational
interest in the field of international labore, Subject has recently returned from
Port-au-Prince, Haiti, where he served as 2nd Sece; Conse; Pole Off. from 8 January
1961 until sumer, 1963. Subject is presently asaigned in the office of Kdwin Me
Martin, Asst. Sect. for Inter-American Affairs. Contact with Subject will be ona
continuing basise
Biographie informtion is attachede

4: INVESTIGATION AND COVER Wy Ap Yes xO

A. U.S. GOVERNMENT INTEREST MAY BE SHOWN DURING INVESTIGATION?

B. CIA INTEREST MAY BE SHOWN DURING INVESTIGATION?

C. 1S SUBJECT AWARE OF U.S. GOVERNMENT INTEREST IN HIM?

D..1S SUBJECT AWARE OF CIA INTEREST IN HIM?

E. INDICATE ANY LIMITATIONS ON COVERAGE IN THE INVESTIGATION OF SUBJECT.

F. SUGGEST “COVER PRETEXT" TO BE USED IN CONDUCTING PERSONAL INVESTIGATION OF SUBJECT.

IF NO INVESTIGATION OUTSIDE CIA, EXPLAIN FULLY

5. PRO AND GREEN LIST STATUS Mp Ae
PRQ I. OR EQUIVALENT. IN (2) COPIES ATTACHED PRO U1 WILL BE FORWARDED

PRQ 11. OR EQUIVALENT. IN (1) COPY ATTACHED GREEN LIST ATTACHED, NO:
7 6-RI TRACES Ne oe
[so Recon [Twice Forwano [_ [son oeRocaTORY [peRocaToRY atTacnE
7. DIVISION TRACES
[Ko Recorp I WILL FORWARD X [Now- penocatony DEROGATORY ATTACHED
ba 8. FIELD TRACES Ne Ae
NO RECORD WILL FORWARD
NO DEROGATORY INFO. DEROGATORY ATTACHED

LIST SOURCES CHECKED
NOT INITIATED (Explanation)
SIGNATURE OF CASE OFFICER EXTENSION

FORM 772 YS STSEE!



14-00000 ,

rd

SECRET
$$$ $$ ———$
REQUEST FOR APPROVAL OR INVESTIGATIVE ACTION idaldet
o (Always handearry | copy of this form) 20 Septonber 1963_
7 pansrecert Fi BS
TO: CI/Operational Approval and Support Division _
; erat A : cafe
x| Security Support Division/Office of Security
‘SUBJECT: : ~ [pRoseet
(Trae name) THOMAS, Charles billion
CRYPTONYM, PSEUDONYM. AKA OR ALIASES 170A FILE NO.
Ri 201 FILE NO. 30 FILE NO.
BP ZAZ
1. TYPE ACTION REQUESTED _
PROVISIONAL OPERATIONAL APPROVAL PROVISIONAL PROPRIETARY APPROVAL
OPERATIONAL APPROVAL PROPRIETARY APPROVAL
PROVISIONAL COVERT SECURITY APPROVAL COVERT NAME CHECK
COVERT SECURITY APPROVAL SPECIAL INQUIRY (SO field investigation)
COVERT SECURITY APPROVAL FOR LIAISON WITH U.S. OFFICIALS

2. SPECIFIC AREA OF USE

Wachington, De Ce

3. FULL DETAILS OF USE
ca/4 requests that a CSA be granted to enable consultation on mtters of operational
interest in the field of internations] labors: Subject hes recently returned from
Portect-Prines, Haiti, where he served as 2nd Sece; Conse; Pol. Off. from 8 January
1961 until summer, 1963. Subject is presently acsigned in tha offico of Edwin He
Farting Acste Secte for IntersAnorican Affairse Contact with Subject will be on a
continuing besise
Biographie information is attachede

4. INVESTIGATION AND COVER He Ao Yes nO

U.S. GOVERNMENT INTEREST MAY BE SHOWN DURING INVESTIGATION?

| CIA INTEREST MAY BE SHOWN DURING INVESTIGATION?

1S SUBJECT AWARE OF U.S, GOVERNMENT INTEREST IN HIM?

1S SUBJECT AWARE OF CIA INTEREST IN HIMT

INDICATE ANY LIMITATIONS ON COVERAGE IN THE INVESTIGATION OF SUBJECT.

SUGGEST "COVER PRETEXT" TO BE USED IN CONDUCTING PERSONAL INVESTIGATION OF SUBJECT.

TF NO INVESTIGATION OUTSIDE CIA, EXPLAIN FULLY

5. PRO AND GREEN LIST STATUS Ne Ao

PRO 1, OR EQUIVALENT. IN (2) COPIES ATTACHED PRO 11 WILL BE. FORWARDEO
PRO (1. OR EQUIVALENT. IN (1) COPY ATTACHED GREEN LIST ATTACHED, NO:

6-RIE TRACES Ne Ae
wo RECORD WILL FORWARD WON: DEROGATORY DEROGATORY ATTACHED

7. DIVISION TRACES

NO RECORD WILL FORWARD X [won ocnocatony DEROGATORY ATTACHED
8. FIELD TRACES Be Ae

WO RECORD WILL FORWARD HH

NO DEROGATORY INFO. DEROGATORY ATTACHED —

LIST SOURCES CHECKED
NOT INITIATED (Explanation)

SIGNATURE OF CASE OFFICER

EXTENSION [SI

Fon 77) Ost taEyTOUF SECRE|



OV 1962

MEMORSNDUM FOR: Chief, CA Staff
ATTENTION 2
FROM : Deputy Dirsstor of Security (Investi-
getions and Operational Support)
SUBIEST 3 THOMAS, Charles William
#376 323

1. Reference is made to your memorandum dated 20 September 1963 which
requested a Covert Security Approval to permit Subject's utilization as a
consultant on matters of operational interest in the field of international
labor. +

2. In accordance with the provisions set ferth in Clandestine
Services Instruction No. 5 and Claniestine Services Instruction -
Field Ne. 10-5, a Covert Security Approval is granted for the use of
the Subject as described in your request as set forth in paregraph 1,
above.

3. Subjects of Covert Security Apprevais are not t> represent
therselves es, nor are they to be represented as, empicyees of CIA.

kh. Your attention is calle2 to the fact that a Ccvert Security
Approval does not constitute cemplete compliance with the previsions
of CIA Reguletion 10-3. Therefore, if you should desire at a later
@ete +o change the status or use of this individusl, a request for
approvel to cover any proposed change showld be submitted to this

ortica.

5. This approval becanes aitd in the event the Subject's
os ace not utilized within six months of the date of this memo-

S-E-C-R-E-T
(Wien Filled In)

