ioOHeSA009]

(J encassiFico =) RAL 0 cow ewtiat C& Secret

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SURECT: (Opmet

Rogelio [SNEROS
£ —e
as tea
rm a
YO: (Ofc dengeren. wotw, ot Nia :
Nei on ereter, bare omcees | commtses pester 023 conmew te stow tom wher
a a ott

“ pey wapse

- | | i 1
efurtealc : ald ee
|

z ;
i (C- FYL eel
“ | Tye Keg nly Te"
. | | bat waa ae
: a Care aK 2a”

(wife far Re

See Lorias cece I:
“eH jleafex

| tt Zh Feeme ~ENG,
Ufbnee fate Aah

|
| Tad ive vada aenat
4S tock Tate dCi lite.
ot ee

5

c ——

a

Ry OlO“ES" CO] secret =] conriventian $=) MIAH uncuassteien

4on

aie ew


from the JURE.

been on “UBARK's payroll since 1960, we proposed “that he a

prepare a study on the Cuban secondary education systex- :

before and after Fidel Castro. Ail arrangement for payment i
were made through a third party. He was paid a sum of

$1200 for eight-typewritten pages - double spaced, a

project any non-Cuban could have written in less time

and expense.

4. In November 1964 CISNEROS asked for an additional
$650 for the study so that he could enroll at the
University of Michigan's intensive zaglish language course.
He was denied the additional sum, but went to the University
alway. He began the course in January 1965. eedaes

5. CISNEROS has now completed the course and has
returned to his home and family in Miami, He feels that
with this new ability to speak and understand English,
he is better equipped to continue the anti-Castro effort.

SECRET

wd

SECRET :
! *
10 May 1965
MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD : :
SUBJECT: Rogelio CISNEROS
1. Subject was called at his Miami home on 7 May 1965,
H by the undersigned using the alias Albert Antonelli. él
i CISNEROS had attempted to contact his former case officer, . F.
’ Alfonso Rodriguez, the day before, but failed.
: 2. Briefly, for the readers not familiar with bis
H mame, Rogelio CISNEROS was a former leader in the Junta
i Revolucionaria (JURE), organized and directed by Manuel ‘
RAY Rivero, _ In September 1964, in difference to RAY's:
i leadership and organizational qualities, CISNEROS resigned
i
3. In an effort to keep him out of our hair, as he's



TT ay am Ace nae ma eet

-2-

6. CISNEROS stated that while at the University he
became acquainted with some young Dominicans and reportedly
he developed a good rapport with the men, He wondered out
loud if any use could be made of the friendship in view of
the activities in Santo Domingo. The undersigned listened
attentively, but made no effort to edvce further information
on this subject.

7. CISNEROS, as a recent "graduate", is interested in
a job and implied that he would like to work for KUBARK.
The undersigned indicated to him that jobs were scarce, but
that his interest in employment will be passed along to
“my superiors". The undersigned closed the conversation by
promising that. he would call during the week of 10 May and
convey any message received from “upstairs™.

apa Yi (eee eae

8. RECOMMENDATION: Unless the readers feel there may be
some value to CISNEROS' Dominican contacts, this writer opines
that we should not get involved with CISNEROS again,and that
he should be told there is no work available for him at the
present, but should something open-up in the future we will
certainly keep him in mind. Reason: After bis resignation
in September 1964 CISNEROS wanted Al Burt, Miami Herald
reporter; to do a news story on RAY pointing up the following

acts:

a!

a. That RAY was a tool of the U. S. State oe
Department and received $25,000 per month from the :
U.S. Government. | (CISNEROS reportedly said that he :
could dougment all facets of RAY's funding.) i

b. That RAY knows his failure to infiltrate : i:
Cuba embarrassed his State Department friends, but i
State will continue to back him as their betrayed
revolution thesis can be tied only to RAY's star i
and as this theme has been sold to the United
States Government at policy levels, despite the
objection of KUBARK, State has no alternative but to
back RAY,

fun apannantil

CISNEROS did not go through with this plan, but he will always’

use this as a peg to blackmail. We have no obligation to i
place CISNEROS on the KUBARK payrolls, either directly or 7
indirectly. He is undoubtedly witting of KUBARK's financial

role in RAY's aborted attempts to infiltrate Cuba, but

payments to RAY are untraceable, It is doubtful} that an

seereT —



a

: SECRET

=3-

expose’on ths ZUPANE/RAY relationship would enlighten anyone,
aS many Rion gendcemee speculated that RAY was being assisted
by KUBARK or som other agency of the United States Government.

9. Should it be warranted, this writer is willing to
debrief CISNEROS further on his Dominican friends,

10, Your comments are requested. od

SEGTET

nh bene nine tn en ent

-
;

