# 104-10186-10174

## Page 1

104-10186-10174

COUNTRY

•SUBIECE

MUNVREPORT ANFORM ATONESE

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

Pose to

SECRET

NO FORN DISSEM

Celse D.miarag Republi

Rich FrEmisCe TAVERAS Rusariu

REPORTINO.

DATE"DISTR

10 Morth 1965

NO PAGES 2

REFERENCES

DATE OF

INDO.

PLACE &

÷ DAIE ACO.

1004:

Washurgler, D.C.

196.4

THIS IS UNEVA NATED INTORMATION, SOURCE GUA

HELD REPORT NO.

APPRAISAL OF. LOMIENI

SCURCE:

Mirimer. Cuban IS officer who servod wil the Cobel lege

NETURN TO CIA

bound Use Only

Do vot Reproduce

- 5. 0414€

Heater are IS Comment:

T. 6 di lee roport is che of a sores cocaire persuit.

trided by the source i d intides supplemesta!

• sea a fren the secords of this Apercy.

110900099d bad the addressees loke more toger even tho

35--2

1. Soore idertified a pholgraph dall f: rosir Tarrang

2.

Ai i inember of the APCI, TAVERAS wils reagan dly sei!

" Caba to secure a scholarship in the Undone Sovet Sorrelist

wy fire draing program instead. Sour e tries id TAVERaS

was mill ir Cuba al the time he lel.

5/PV

5

Heade paters Commeet

Rolael Fre asco (' Fall") TAVERAS Rostrio, uto any booge!°

1ons 1938, was elected sere tery do pubived propspidern

ile APCJ Contral Exceutive Commitre a: Decerber 1962.

he'd der ttle when he left the Dumined: Republic on 13 Septembor

19l: for Mexiro un a Spansi, ship, es anste do the Soviet

NO FOR, DISSER DO

21.

MNFORMATION REPORTEM NORMA HON REPORT

15

And and

MEDANZI CLIA

CL REAL

DIR- 10522

ILJE

NITRO AND

- a. DK.

Rid asteron te

CSCH 2111174 RS

2

---

## Page 2

Cset 31m 6d17s-n5

SECRET

NO FORS DESEM

Unes to stade wa scholarship, fraveling min laime DURAN terrie.

Mugo TOYo Vangis. and Norce villons BOTELLO prera les.

(Ser TSCS=3/558,654). tn marly revember 1903,

Cotater n te APC Oreported that TAVERAS, DURAN. TOYOS.

and BOTELLO wore ther in Moscow studrins crontnites

(ser (S-2 5(5, S60): however, In carly Deyeoker 1963 anther

surce repurred that TAVERAS, DURAN, TOYOS, aNd DOTELLO

were then a Cuka and did nol plan to gu te the Soviet Unon as they

were unable to obtain the scholarships either before thes loft for.

Culs i sirce they liad been in Cuha, (Sco GS: 568, 846) 1:8

Hie tober 1964, BOTELLO SAd UU TAVERAS J Tre

cond as d member of his traing aroup alich hud series maths

inrhtary training, and that he expes teg pAVERAS 8o va tarily

the Dominan Républic soon, using a false, passport do peter she

contrs: (ser TDCS-314:04551-64) On 12 Decenter 1964. DURAN

sald thur TAVERAS returned to the Dominican Republic from Cubit

oui of abiur 12 December 1964, probably usias a false passpure

(Sve CS-311- (0014-65).

SECRET

NO FORN DISSEM

---

