"<. ” GHA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM
RELEASE AS SANITIZED
1998

DRAFT

ARRB Request CIA-1

The following Directorate of Science and Technology
documents can be Released in Full:

HR 1-lla 24March 1964 Mission Statement
p. 15 for the Directorate
for Science and
Technology
27 March 1964 Organizational Chart
fig.3, p. 14 Office of the Deputy
Director for Science
and Technology
HR 1-lla 10 October 1969 Mission Statement
p. 15 DSséT
10 October 1969 Organizational Chart
fig.3, p. 14 DS&T
HR 1-lla 10 February 1975 Mission Statement
p. 15 DSséT
6 August 1959 Mission Statement i
p. 21 Photographic
Intelligence Center
6 August 1959 Organizational Chart
fig.9 Photographic
Intelligence Center
HR 1-13h 16. August 1963 Mission Statement
p. 49 National Photo-
graphic Inter-
pretation Center
16 August 1963 Organizational Chart
fig.16, p. 48 NPIC
HR 1-13e 26 September 1966 Mission Statement.

p. 47

26 September 1966
fig.13, p. 46

RETURN-TO-CIA
groun

“Deterrent”

NPIC

Organizational Chart
NPIC



f

HR 1-lle

27 March 1964
p. 23

27 March 1964
fig.7, p. 22

DKA

Mission Statement
Office of Special
Activities

Organizational Chart
Office of Special
Activities

The following Directorate of Science and Technology
documents are pending Directorate re-review.

HR 1-lle

HR 1

10 February 1975
p. 23

10 February 1975
fig.7, p. 22

Mission Statement
Office of Technical
Service

Organizational Chart
Office of Technical
Service

Fi


kphv ES

Vg.
ORGANIZATION : 7-uat *ff{a HR 1-1a
Jefe yep

11. OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY DIRECTOR FOR SCIENCE AND TECH-

NOLOGY

a. THE DEPUTY DIRECTOR FOR SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY. The Deputy
Director for Science and Technology !s responsible for conducting basic and
applied research and development in the scientific and technical fields in
support of the Central Intelligence Agency. This includes responsibility for
Watson and contact with the scientific community as well as all Government
agencies on matters of sclence and technology in intelligence as appropriate,
and responsibility for furnishing technical planning, programming guidance,
and support to other Agency components utilizing science and technology in
support of their.functions, The Deputy Director for Science and Technology
is responsible for the operation of certain technical collection projects and
for the research and development of the means used by them for technical
collection; for the production of scientific and technical intelligence; and for
research, development and, where appropriate, the operation of automatic
data processing equipment in support of the Central Intelligence Agency and
its mission; and fs further responsible for the maintenance and operation of
a center in which all information relating to foreign missile and space opera-
tions is collated, analyzed, and provided for the Director and other appropriate ~
USIB agencies.. The DDS&T shall operate a scientific career service to pro-
vide for the enhancement of career opportunities in the CLA, and shall direct
and coordinate the Offices of Computer Services, ELINT, Research and De-
velopment, Special Activities, Scientific Intelligence, and Foreign Missile and
Space Analysis Center, and serve as Chairman of the CIA Research and De-
velopment Review Board. (See organization chart, figure 3.)

27 March 1964 (182) taiedeg rom evemas 15

SECRES fraleteciee
Sectifeat-on



13-00000

B= as
$ —
a ~
OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY DIRECTOR FOR SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY a
ww
DEPUTY DIRECTOR
SPECIAL ASSISTANT FOR SPECIAL ASSISTANT
TO DDS&T (COMOR) SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY 10 Dosa
ASSISTANT DEPUTY
n
: OFFICE OF FOREIGN MISSILE :
OFFICE OF OFFICE OF RESEARCH OFFICE OF :
vatitx | |" "ia | git
z aN S
5 EAN
= RSS
8 >
i aN
g gS tb,



_doateneaiea
ORGANIZATION HR 1-1la

1L. OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY DIRECTOR FOR SCLENCE AND TECH-
NOLOGY
a, THE DEPUTY DIRECTOR FOR SCIENCE AND ‘TECHNOLOGY. The Deputy

Director for Science and Technology is responsible for directing and coordi-

nating the activities of the OMces of Scientific Intelligence, Research and De-

velopment, ELINT, Special Activitles, Special Projects, and Computer Sery-
ices, and the Foreign Missile and Space Analysis Center. His responsibilities
include:

(1) Advising the Director of Central Intelligence on scientfile and technical
intelligence matters;

(2) Producing scientific intelligence;

(3) Coordinating, in a staff capacity, existing and proposed Agency research,
development, and engineering (RD&E) plans and programs to insure
responsiveness to Agency needs;

44) Conducting liaison with the entire scientific community, including other
Government agencies, on matters of science and technology relating to
intelligence;

(5) Managing the “R” Career Service.

peseRiaeD BY fz tee
wi 76 Aah 2s- HES §7/

Revised: 10 October 1969 (482)
C itenieamed



13-00000

VID @S01 6CEES

#1

(295) 6681 39AN90 OF :poseN

OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY DIRECTOR FOR SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY

i

ft

ae Go

rat os

wg
| DEPUTY DIRECTOR if
1 FOR js | ae
{ PECIAL ASSISTANT i re

| SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY =| To poser be ke

\ ASSISTANT DEPUTY eS
nm

} —~

EXECUTIVE OFFICER

Lami pe pal eer

orice oF orrice or |{ orfice or | | OFFICE OF 1 OFFICE OF FOREIGN MISSILE
cunt RESEARCH AND SPECIAL 4 1 SPECIAL 7 i SCIENTIFIC | an SPACE ana
uy | DEVELOPMENT eRQJECTS ad ACTIVITIES INTELLIGENCE CENTER

lees

OFFICE OF |

; COMPUTER
SERVICES

re ae

ROLLVZINVOUO


orcanizationREC CELSO LY

— DATE > iis
11, OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY DIRECTOR FOR SCIENCE AND TECH.
NOLOGY

ya, THE DEPUTY DIRECTOR FOR SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY. The Deputy
Director for Science and Technology is responsible for directing and coordi-
nating the activities of the Offices of Scientific Intelligence, Research and De-
velopment, ELINT, Development and Engineering, Weapons Intelligence, Tech-
nical Service, and the National Photographic Interpretation Center, His re-
sponsibilities include

(1) advising the Director of Central Intelligence on scientific and technical
intelligence matters;

(2) producing scientific intelligence;

(3) managing existing and proposed Agency research, development, and en-
gineering (RD&E) plans and programs to ensure responsiveness to Agency
needs;

conducting liaison with the entire scfentific community, including other
Government agencies, on matters of science and technology relating to
intelligence;

imagery interpretation and exploitation in correlation with other informa-
tion to support Intelligence production of the Agency and the Intelligence
Community;

L, (6) managing the “R” Career Service.

(4

6

~ Revised: 10 February 1975 (871)



Crpncte back
)¢-130~

—

oo R 1-130 27 F

ORGANIZATION
Revised 6 August 1959

PHOTOGRAPHIC INTELLIGENCE CENTER

23, MISSIO

The Director of \he Photographic Intelligence Center is charged with producing
photographic intajligence and providing photographic intelligence services in
support of the Central Intelligence Agency and the intelligence community.

24, FUNCTIONS
‘The Director of the Phdtographic Intelligence Center shall:

a.

b,

Produce photographic telligence in support of Agency and national scientific,
military, economic, and\geographic intelligence objectives.

Provide photographic intajligence support and services to the Agency and the
intelligence community.

. Maintain a photographic intgiligence facility manned and equipped to provide

complete analytic and technidal photographic intelligence services in support
of special collection and exploitation requirements.

|. Provide accommodations and serWces within the center for military-service and

other Government representatives engaged in joint exploitation projects.

. Assist in the evaluation of other in! ence sources through comparison with

photographic data.

Conduct an active program of research and development in equipment and
techniques for providing improved expl&{tation of photographic intelligence,
coordinating such activity as appropriate\with Agency, military-service, and
other Government components.

. Conduct Haison with and represent the Ageycy to Government and private

organizations on ‘photographic intelligence activities, coordinating such Malson
as appropriate with interested Agency components.

Prepare photographic and photogrammetric Intdlligeice collection require-
ments.

Assist in preparation of estimates of foreign capabilities in the field of photo-
graphic intelligence.

Perform such other functions related to photographic intelligence activities
as may be directed.

25. ORGANIZATION
See organization chart, figure 9.

FOR THE DIRECTOR OF CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE:

H. GATES LLOYD
Acting Deputy Director 4
(Support)

DISTRIBUTION: AB

21


13-00000

4s

SPORE R 1-130
REGULATION : ORGANIZATION,
NO. 1-130 Revised 6 August

PHOTOGRAPHIC INTELLIGENCE CENTER

DIRECTOR
OF PHOTOGRAPHIC
INTELLIGENCE CENTER

i

ADMINISTRATIVE “ey COORDINATION
STAFF ‘ | | CONTROL STAFF

TECHNICAL
INTELLIGENCE

SERVICES DIVISION

7 7

——__-— ~ rl I
DATA MANAGEMENT | i eoteanne MILITARY SCIENTIFIC
DIVISION | i . |

“ i DIVISION | DIVISION
Le ence __.

Figure 9

27245 835 oles


ORGANIZATION

» 6 Steg hl do
h, NATIONAL PHOTOGRAPHIC INTERPRETATION CEN’
(1) AUTHORITY. The National Photographic Interpretation Center (NPIC)

was established by National Security Council Intelligence Directive No. 8,

dated 18 January 1961 and functions under the executive direction of the

Director of Central Intelligence.

(2) MISSION. The National Photographic Interpretation Center is charged
. with producing photographic interpretation reports, providing photographic
F Intelligence services in support of the national intelligence effort, furnish-
ing such additional support to departmental and Agency interests as can
be provided without degradation of national responsibilities, and promot-
ing an integrated and coordinated interdepartmental effort in the ex-
ploitation of photography for Intelligence purposes.

(3) FUNCTIONS. The National Photographic Interpretation Center shall:

(a) Produce photographic interpretation reports in support of the na-
tional intelligence effort and approved Priority National Intelligence
Objectives to include preliminary rapid interpretation of photographic
detail and comprehensive photographic analysis, utilizing, whenever
Possible, related collateral information.

(b) Provide as a service of common concern to the intelligence com-
munity photographic intelligence services in support of the national
photographic Intelligence effort, and, whenever practicable, furnish
additional support to departmental and Agency interests.

(c) Maintain on a selective basis a consolidated central file of photo-
graphic data.

(d) Arrange for the exchange of photographs and photographic data
with other photographic collections in the intelligence- community.

(e) Make recommendations where appropriate to facilitate the coordi-
nated development of compatible codes, indexes, and mechanized
systems for the efficient recovery, selection, and collation of available
photographic data.

(®) Prepare photographic and photogrammetric intelligence support re-
quirements.
(g) Provide analytic and technica! photographic Intelligence services in

support of special collection and exploitation requirements.

(h) Engage in or sponsor, as appropriate, the development of specialized
equipment for the intelligence exploitation of photography, and shall
provide information about such specialized equipment to interested
elements of the intelligence community for their own possible use or
further adaptation.

(i) Provide and maintain accommodations and facilities within the Center
for photographic intelligence units of U. S. Intelligence Board com-
ponents involved in national and departmental activities.

(J) Examine and make recommendations to the U. S. Intelligence Board,
as appropriate, as to any special security controls required.

(k) Consult, as appropriate, with individual departments, agencies, and
committees of the U. S. Intelligence Board on matters related to
photographic intelligence exploitation activities.

(4) ORGANIZATION. See organization chart, figure 16.

Revised: 16 August 1963



13-00000

NATIONAL PHOTOGRAPHIC INTERPRETATION CENTER

Ce
o
| DIRECTOR H
! DEPUTY. DIRECTOR {
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR ?
| a eee eee
f | i ASSISTANT FOP | [ASSISTANT FOR PUSS
ASSISTANT FOR ADMINISTRATION | {ASSISTANT FOR OPERATIONS | | pworocrapiic aNaursis | AND OSVELOPMENT i
1 eRe! 4 t Serer aren i
t ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF OPERATIONS STAFF [ PHGTOCRAPHIC ANALYSIS GROUP | DEVELOPMENT STARE i
UL need Hl
B | TECHNICAL | puoucarions | {COLLATERAL | | PROBUCTION i
< INTELLIGENCE i DIMSION i SUPPORT SERVICES |
& pivision : ; DIVISION Dwsion i
a [ac | i=}
= a
= s
a - ;
a x
‘e =
% x
. mn
3 3
é z



ORGANIZATION i Wes G ]-18e

e. NACIONAL PHOTOGRAYHIC INT

a 7

£6
TON CEN

(1) MISSION. The National Paceeeeaeaie Interpretation Center is charged

(2

with producing photographic interpretation reports, providing photo-

graphic intelligence services in support of the national intelligence effort,

furnishing such additional support to departmental and Agency interests
as can be provided without degradation of. national responsibilities, and
promoting an integrated and coordinated Interdepartmental effort in the

exploitation of photography for Intelligence purposes. (NSCID No. 8)

FUNCTIONS. The National Photographic Interpretation Center shall:

(a) Produce photographic interpretation reports in support of the national
intelligence effort and approved Priority National Intelligence Objec-
tives to include preliminary rapid interpretation of photographic detail
and comprehensive photographic analysis, utilizing, whenever possible,
related collateral information.

(b) Provide as a service of common concern to the intelligence community
photographie intelligence services in support of the national photo-
graphic intelligence effort, and, whenever practicable, furnish addi-
tional support to departmental.and Agency interests.

(c) Maintain on a selective basis a consolidated central file of photographic
data.

(d) Arrange for the exchange of photographs and photographic data with
other photographic collections in the intelligence community.

(e) Make recommendations where appropriate to facilitate the coordinated

development of compatible codes, indexes, and mechanized systems for

the efficient recovery, selection, and collation of available photographic
data. :

Prepare photographic and photogrammetric intelligence support re-

quirements.

(g) Provide analytic and technical photographic intelligence services in
support of special collection and exploitation requirements.

(h) Engage in or sponsor, as appropriate, the development of specialized

equipment for the intelligence exploitation of photography, and shall

provide information about such specialized equipment to interested
elements of the intelligence community for their own possible use or
further adaptation.

Provide and maintain accommodations and facilities within the Center

for photographie intelligence units of U.S. Intelligence Board. compo-

nents involved in national and departmental activities.

Examine and make recommendations to the U.S. Intelligence Board,

as appropriate, as to any special security controls required for photo-

graphic and related materials.

(k) Consult, as appropriate, with individual departments, agencies, and
committees of the U.S. Intelligence Board on matters related to photo-
graphic intelligence exploitation activities.

3

a

G

(3) ORGANIZATION. See organization chart, figure 13.

Revised; 26 September 1966 (303)



13-00000

8
&
e
ry
2
&
Q
>

oF

1ATY

:pa

(e08} 9961 ssawerdas 97

NATIONAL PHOTOGRAPHIC INTERPRETATION CENTER

! DIRECTOR
NATIONAL I
PHOTOGRAPHIC =}
INTERPRETATION CENTER:

——___—
-——{ SUPPORT sa

—l—

i

ASSISTANT FUR j i

assistant For |
PLANNING ANI
antec j oPéKAtIONS |

Freon i i “anal

| TECHNICAL | F puotacetions | INFONMATION | COLLATERAL |
INTELLIGENCE | i opMision | PROCESSING | SUPPORE

|

DWvIsION | j oiviSiON . Division

ASSISTANT FOR
PHOTOGRAPHIC
ANALYSIS,

[os

ASSISTANT FOR
TECHNICAL
DEVELOPMENT



13-00000

— CK ia Af hake

ORGANIZATION HR I-lle

ce, OFFICE OF SPECIAL ACTIVITIES
() MISSION. The Assistant Director for Special Activities is charged with
the development and operation of certain highly sensitive technical col-

Jection programs.

(2) FUNCTIONS. The Assistant Director for Special Activities, shall:

(a) Develop and operate special projects for the collection of intelligence
by advanced technical means.

(b) Stimulate the exploitation by the Agency of advanced technology to
further the Office’s mission.

(c) Conduct research and development in methods for conveying advanced
technical collection devices.

(d) Establish and maintain Maison with appropriate civilian and Govern-
ment agencies In order to.keep abreast of developments which might
affect the Office's activities, capabilities, or requirements,

(3) ORGANIZATION. Sce organization chart, figure 7.

27 March 1964 (182) 23



13-00000 . .

Eos ~—
= S oie
- wz
g —
OFFICE OF SPECIAL ACTIVITIES part
Q
N
ASSISTANT DIRECTOR .
——____—_, _ FOR |
SPECIAL ASSISTANT SPECIAL ACTIVITIES |
| ees} _Ses Acs
| DEPUTY ASSISTANT RECTOR
— a EXECUTIVE OFFICER
- eat
=
a as
4 2 rd
yg SECURITY STAFF PROGRAMS STAFF
aa wt
pao
on coh
™ tap =e
re ao
==
DEPUTY FOR TECHNOLOGY | DEPUTY FOR FIELO ACTIVITIES
j i
3
E L L
3 f : 7 °
& poets OEVELOPMENT barre CONTRACTS SUPPORT OPERATIONS. INTELLIGENCE MATERIEL communications | 2
g pINISION owision Division OWISION Onision pwston |} omision | DIViSiOR | OMIsION >
Lo! Ld) Zz
8 5
2
o
z


i yy rots WZ
ORGANIZATION iti By MEL: Mae Ce R 1-lle

pre. OFFICE OF TECHNICAL SERVIGE

(1) MISSION. The Director of Technical Service is responsible for close opera-
tional support of ODO operations through the development, engineering,
testing and evaluation, production, storage, and deployment of equipm

and techniques’

‘Community as wellvas conducting analysis In. the areas of operational
‘support,
(2) FUNCTIONS. The Director of Technical Service

(a) provides equipment, personnel services, and materials in direct sup-
port of DDO operations, and certain approved overseas operations of
other member agencies of the U.S. Intelligence Community;

(b) develops, engineers, tests, and manages the production and stock stor-
age of technical equipment for support of clandestine technical op-
erations;

(e) evaluates foreign finds for the Intelligence Community, and performs
such other services as may be directed by the DCI.

tl, (3) ORGANIZATION. See organization chart, figure 7.

10 February 1975 (871) [ <saetttle 23
: SECRET tba

ie Office of Technical Service ovaluates foreign finds for the Intelligence”

