ind-10719-10146

° niet, WE (Attn: Chief, sE/4)

=
Chief, KUDESK; Chief, SR

"™ chief of Station, Rome

ony Z
=sHBHE/KUDESK/REDCOAT = Dr. Roscoe WHITE

ee eT? OiRe-24330, 17 Aug 1965

1. Station will be pleased to comply with the referenced request; before
doing so, however, we would like to be certein that all available information
on Dr. White and Dr. Renninger has been collaved and evaiusted. Specifically,
the writer recalls having reported in considerable detail on the contacts with
William H. Martin, providing substantially nore information than contained in
the attachment to reference.

2. It {a requested that Wallace A. DEMOLAT be consulted on this problen,
Since he is in the best position to locate the extensive prior reporting on
Martin's maneuvers in the USSH; moreover, there was additional information
involving Martin's approaches to Americans in Leningrad, all of which should
be melded into the background of Henninger and White as reporters on Martin.

3. Since mich information {s already in hand, we would appreciate knowing
more specifically what is desired of Dr. White; we presume that ther: fe no
desire to duplicate ground which has already been covered in considerable depth
with him while he was still in the USSR (and parenthetically, inforration in the
vein of general assesszent data has also been reported).

4, It {9 recommended that after all available data on the contacts with
Martin have been reviewed at Headquarters, an appropriate briefing guide, keyed
to the lacunae in previous reporting and covering any additional information that
may be desired from Dr. White, be prepared for the Station's interview. Upon
receipt of your further guidance, either RILADER or SHIVELL will interview
Dr. White,

Distribution:
3 ewe
2 ~ C/KUDESK

2@-SR

