# 104-10216-10148

## Page 1

104-10216-10148

гр

DISPATCHI

Ch108, Spoolas A82atrs Start

BAESINCATON

929281

PROCESSUNG

ACTION

MAtED FOR MOCKE

ONLY QUALIFIED

ДАЗРЕАСІ

Cisel of Staties, SWAV

80181

TYPIC operational

Fransnitral el Operational PlAs Ber ARTISAN VIL

ACTOR REQUIRED SURICE

Action Seguired: Bequeat ApprOPRI

Beferencea

• 0/6 831

tCl-10436,

81 JuLy 1001

c. Dre:-10589,

O Plas ATTrER V, 31

ang 1903

0804-12723,

Op PLAS ALTIEH V. 2Y MOY 1063

ma 18138,

18 Domsber 1904

Tronaitted for spreval borowith Is the enratleal Dimm

tion on 7 Febnary and for coiltration en li Fioruary, A

five teen til internatiate Cort •111 be Laillerated Into

norther. Fatemas Frwince fron vaich polat sis ten loader,

the IRAPER objectiren al thia operasien.

Approval to sercated

at tho carlient possible time.

• DISPATCH

Attachmeat:

Op Mas (3 078) - 117

S-Ca watt

";.с

finlands

DATE TYREE

- Ma 01

BIRACTIS SABOL AND MAIDE

«HA 18701

sables

DATE DEFICIEN

---

## Page 2

14-00000

nibn

OPERATIONAL PLAN

DESE JILEN

CRYPTONYA

ANTRUNK VII

2. REPERENCES

UFGA-9312, ANTRUNE Operational Plan, 1 11 10 1963

B. UFGA-10436, Amendrent of ANTRUNK Operational Plas,

31 July 1963

C. UFGA-10933, Operational Plan - ANTRUNK V, 31 August

1963

UFGA-12725, Operational Plan - ANTRUNK VI, 27 Noven

ber 1963

UFGA-13138,

Amendment to ANTHUNK VI Operational Plan,

18 Decenber 1963

3.

BACKGROUND

Operation ALTRUNK III/IV which was mounted in August 1963 was

successiud in that the two principals of the team, AMICE-27

and AMICE-14,

were ablo to contact and to recruit two princ

pal agents and several other action agents to lay the ground

work fo= the MHAPRON objectives of the AUTRUNK operation.

One

of the two laternal P/A's, ANTRUNI-9, was oxfiltrated with the

four-man ALTRUNK infiltration seam for training and operet108a1

discussions in the JWAVE area. In early September,

ANTRUNK 9

WaS re-1nf1ltrated Into PBRUMEN In OperatIOn AHTRUNK V, the

sase operation which exfiltrated AMFAUNAS -1, -3,

-13 and 34.

In late October AMICE 27 was separated fron the clandestine

part of the AlTRUNK operation.

The original objectives of

Operation AttRunk vI,

postponed from December 1963 to Jamary

1964, were to revitalize and re direct the efforte of the two

Internal P/A's toward their primary task, 1.e. to spot and re

cruit

among high level figures who are dissatisfied with the

Castro regine.

In late December, the scope of this mission was

altered by the receipt of a commercial telegram in open code

fIO= AMTRUNK-9 indicating that he was in grave danger and wished

to be exfiltrated.

The twin objectives of Operation ANTRUNK VI

then becare:

first, to exfiltrate AttruNg and, this accom

plished, for AMICE-14 to proceed to Havana for his task of re

channelling ALTRUNK-10's responsibilities.

The exiltration of

AHTRUNK-9, who brought with him his entire family consisting of

brother-in law,

and three small children, "as accomplished

on 9

January 1964.

The unexpected presence of

ANTRUNK- 9' g

family, coupler'

with reports of increased vigilance in the 1n11l

tration area, forced AMICE14 to exfiltrate the same night wIth

out attempting to accomplish the second part of his mission.

SECRET

DES RYERE®

---

## Page 3

14-00000

A..9

- 2"

RYBAT

OBJECRIVES

To re-establish personal contact with AlTRUNk-10 and to

socure his full cooperation in spotting dissidents within

the higher levels of the military for the purpose of of

ganizing a couspiracy against fidel Castro.

B.. To obtain from ANTRUNK-10 operational information od

other NHAPRON recruitment targets.

C To attemot the rocrultrent of PAR Captain and Cubana

& frequent

Jand an influential figure

In civilian and military aviation.

De

Through the AlTRUNK ratline, to transport to Havans and

cache a clandestine radio set for the future use of an

Infiltrated AYTRUNK radio oporator. At the sane ilse, to

explore with ANTFUNK-10 and other internal contacts the

possibility of safehousing and supporting a radio operator

in Havana.

5. TASKS

A.

The ANTRUNK Intermediate Craft will be towed by the KUBARK

mother craft to the

DRP at coordinates

224668, Ads Sheet

4085 IV (239 14' 00" N and 80° 47 ' 00" W, H. 0. 2624) .

B.

The ANTRUNK IC will then proceed to the vicinity of coor

dinates 133511, AMS 4085 III. At this point. AMICE-14 and/05

ANTRUNK-7 will make contact with either

lor his son L

in Casualidad

(17654795, ANS 4085 III).

These two individuals are knowl

edgable of the fact that

the ANTRUNks may return to the 1n

filtration area although they do not know even the approri-

nate date.

and his son

are propared to

activate the ratline consisting of three different taxis, to

nove AMICE 14 and AUTRUNK-13 into the Havana area.

ANTRUNK - 7

and -16,

the team guides, and AMAGREE,, the radio operator,

will remain with the IC in the mangroves in the vicialty of

the infiltration area until the return of AkICE-14 and

AXTRUNS-13•

Once in Havana, AMICE-14 and ALTRUNK-13 Intend to split up

and seek refuge in different safehouses.

They wild maintain

contact with each other, hoover.

.D.

AMICE 14's primary task vis-a-vis ANTRUNK-10 is to cement

the recruitment of AUTRUNK-10 and to obtain his full coopera

tIon to work toward MRAPRON objectives.

In addition,

AMICE 14

will teach AMTRUNK-10 an OWVi system and leave & receiver with

ANTRUNK-10. AMICE-14 also intends to give ANTAUNT 1O a review

RYBA)

---

## Page 4

E.

F.

.:Go

ECRET HYBAT

= 3 =

In the principles of secret writing.

Secondary tasks to be accomplished with AUTRUNK-10 are:

(1) To debrief hin on his activities since AHICI-iA

recruited him in August 1963.

• (2)

To collect operational Inforation on other possi

ble recruitment targeta

(3) To explore the possibilities of accommodating and

supporting an, infiltrated radio operator.

ANTRUNK-13 will attempt the recruitment of

] a close friend of AMTRUNK-13'6 for 18

years

and a first cousin of AlICE 14.

The following Is

a short blographical sketch of SEMIDEZ:

Age 37-38 years old. Born 1n

_ the son of

of the National *

Kray and veteran of the Spanish-American Har.

studied for one year at l

1 Univeraity,

He and ANTRIAY-13 graduated iron the second clara sor

In 1942.

about 1l years before he became L

for the lactor company aftor the Revolution.

was absorbed into Cubana,

various positions of importance in Cubana.

He also holds

the rank of |

in the Rebel Air Force and reportedly

has nade reconnaissance flights and black flights carrying

arms and/or agents to and fron other Latin American

countries.

Thas a close friendship with I

and 18 10

portedly close to

for whon he is & froquest

Because of the close former friendship

between AJTRUNK-13 and L

and because of reporte

IrOm AUCE-14'g Lamily which indicate thatll

1 has

become disenchanted with the Castro regime, both ARUN

and AMICE-14 consider L

a prime candidate for re

cruitment.

should be out of the country on a flying trip

at the time of infiltration, ANTRUNT-13 will attempt to

set up contact with L

who 1s reportedly stationed in Las Villas Province with

& unit of "Tuche Contra Bandidos", an anti-counterrevolu

tionary force.

ANTRUNK-13 and

are friende

for a period of 6 or T years,

SECRET

DVRAT

•CITIZED

---

## Page 5

SECRET

• = 4=

FYBr.-

DESENSTIZED

father and lived in their hone. AKTRUNI-13 and

also worked together in the 26th of July

under

Ground 1n Havana.

To return through the ratline to the inf1l/exf1l area.

Recognition signals will be established with AHTRUNK-7

and -16 and AVAGREE-I who will be waiting with the IC

In the mangroves in the vicinity of the lagoon at coor

dinates 129498, AMS 4085 III.

TIMETABLE

The scheduled date for the Infiltration of the ANTRUNk team

at the DRP 1s 4200 hours, Y February 1964.

The exfiltration

of the five team members with the ANTRUNK IC and rendezvous

with the mother, craft at the DPP 1s 2355 hours, I7 February,

with an alternate on 18 February.

If extiltration is not

successiul on either of these dates, the radio operator will

be in contact with the base and contingent plans for exfil

tration can be set up through this mediun.

ANTRUNK PERSONNEL

Ao

B.

See references

• for biographical Information on AlICE 14

and ANTRUNK-7.

AMTRUNK-13

AUTRYNK-13 1s a 42-year-old Cuban citizen who his been at

connercial airline pilot for most of his life.

He 16 &

high school graduate. In early 1959, ANTRUNK-13 was

one of the major Cuban

airlines. He detected in December [

while still in

that post.

He is a native of Havana who was activo in the

26th of July underground in that city from early 1957.

mile later in exile in the United States, AMTRUNK-13 made

two clandestine flights into the Sierra Maestras duriag

the war arainst Batista. the last bringine

for his first

in December 1958.

AHAGREE-1, Radio Operator

AMAGREE-1 1s a 33-year-old Cuban citizen who has two college

degrees, in educati, and in Journalism.

He is native to

the province in which the infil/ezfil area in located.

Until his departure from Cuba in August 1981,

• AMAGREE 1 was

& municipal official in Matanzas Province and was active in

the propaganda section of the 30th of November lovement.

AMAGREE-1 began his association with KUBARK in April 1963

as a radio operator trainee.

As In the case of altrunk 13,

th1s 1s his first operational mission.

.".".

SECREE.

DESENSAIZED

AURAT

---

## Page 6

-5.

RYBr.

DISIRIZED

D. ANTRUNK-16, Guide

AMYRUNI-16 18 & 41-year Old Single Cuban citizen who, a

lived and worked in the infil

exIld area and or mis 1ife.

He participated in Oporation

ANTRUNK VI In December 1963 and his up to date rowledge

of the infil/exfil areafron which he fled in late October

1963, proved Invaluable on this mission. titLe he wa

st1ll in Cuba, ATRINK-:6 was & trusted contact for the

ANTRUNKe on both Operation III/IV and V.

8.

COMIUNICATIONS

do Primary.

¢".R8-501 vith spocial signal plan with contimous gaard.

channel.

This equiprent will remain with the ARUNK IC

and will not be carried into Havana.

!.',B. Alternates.

• (1) OVI

ALICE 14 WIll carry & RE-44 receiver with appropriate

signal plan on the trip into Havana.

• (2)

AMICE-LA, ANTRUNK-13 and AMAGRÈE-1 V111 All LaTe 1a

tbeir possession a S/M system with indiestors, materials

and accommodation addresses in the JWAVE areA.

C..

Case Officer Challenge

To be used to deteraine whether or not the radio operator,

AMAGREE 1, Is being controlled by & hostile force.

C/O:

"Diganos aí los barcos de patrulla estar equipados con

radar y armas posadas".

("Tell us 11 the patrol boats are

equipped with radar and heavy armament"). Radio Operator,

11 free from hostile control, will reply: "En Cuba no bay

culebras venenosas".

(In Cuba there are no poisonous.

snakes)•

Any other response to this question wich the .

radio operator might givo rould indicate hostile control.

*. COVER.

The entire infil/exfiltration using the IC will De black.

During the trip to Havana, AMICE-ld and AHTRUNk-13 will devise

their own cover stories to lit the individual situation,

All.

five agents w111 be provided with false documentation.

BICEBT

YBAT DESENIZED

---

## Page 7

SECRET

PYRAT"

10. FINANCES

AMICE 14 and ANTRUNK-13 w111

each take 22,000.00 into Havana.

11. CO. FROL

Control over the five members of the ANTlINk team takes the

form of providing or denying them the wherew thal, both

financial and material, to engage in Clandestine operation

against the Castro regine.

72. CONMITHENTS

No connitments have been made to any number bf the team other

than a broad commitnent to continue to pay their salaries in

the event they

are captured and to continue to provide support

08 thelf deatl10a sor a reasonablo poriod o1, tige in the evolt

• 13.

SECURITI

Both AKICE-14 and ANAGREE-I Lave bean granted 0d'g.

The other

three tear members, AUTRUNK-7,

-13 and -16, have buen granted

POA'S.. All Live have been ICFLUTTERed.

14. TRAINING

A. ANICE 14

The earlier training of AMICE-14 has been supplemented with

three additional weeks of tradecraft training and he has

since received revlew training in weapons $1r108, maritino,

OwVL. and S/M.

ANTRUNE- 13

-5,56.

Prior to dispatch of Operation ANTRUNK VII:: ANTRUNK-19 111

have received the following training:

(1) Three weeks of tradecraft training

3: (2)

One tock of naritine trataing is

(3)

One week of survival training

One weed of Pl training accenting map and compass

and weapons firing

(5)

Three half-day sessions in S/

SECRET

-SIL

do interio

S52DVDIT

---

## Page 8

-7.

C. AMAGREE 1

AMAGREE1 has received the same training as ANTRUNE 13

above plus basic radlo operator training which included

AMAGRRE1.

prior todispatch time, will have received training 1n &

spocial signal plan with continuous guard channel.

• Do

ANTRUNK Y

Since AMTRUNK-?'& primary function en the ANTRUNK team

1s as & coastal guide, his formal training has been

necessarily lialted.. He has received extenaive maritime

and veapons training and three days of Instruction in

basic tradocratt principles.

B. AXTRUNK-16 :

This agent's function on the ANTRUNk team 1e sisilar to

that of AMTRUNI7.

He will have received Pl and naritim

tratning prior to dispatch.

15. DAMAGE REPORT

See Attachment A

16.

EQUIPIENT LIST

See Attachment B

siti

SECRET

DVRAT

---

## Page 9

"i""

D.

B.

SECRET RYCI ATTACHUNT A

DAKAGE RESENSITIZED.

The damage report for AMICE14 and ALTRUNE-T renains the same

as was transmitted in Attachment A to Reference D with the

addition of Rudolph W. SOSPINE 88 "Jack".

RaJahOusos and Trainine Areas Exposed to ANYRUr-19:

Safehouse #216

Maritime Training Site

Firing Bange

Survival Training Site

KUBARK Personnel Exposed to AFRUNI-13:

Irving N. PEGGINS as

"Joe Webster"

Reuben A. HANNULA as

"Fred Folson"

Rudolph W. SOSPINE as

"Jack"

Andrew S. PARLERS 88

"Angel Martin", training Instructor

Btuart Y. KAPRIDNO aS

"Dewey"

Alton T. PIRNACK &S

"arry"

Fletcher K. THENS &S

"Harry"

Paul V. MENDECINO as

r-jed"

wilfred R.

*ASY 89

"Pete"

Floyd H. RUSANG: SKI 25

Roith D. HINETT &8

• "Jim's

Paul I. NAPOLILLI aS

"Paul"

Larya operator

Agent Personnel Exposed to AXTRUNK-13:

AMICE 27 by true nase

LICE 14 by true name

AMAGREE-1 as "Mario Ramirez"

AKAKA-1 as "Antonio Garcia"

AHTRUNK-7 as "Carlos Menendez"

ANTRUNK-8 as "Tonas Rodrigues"

ANTRUNÍ-9 as "JOse Lopez"

AMTRUNK-16 as "Juan Gonzalez"

AXPAL-1 88 "J00"

AMSKILL1 by training allas

ANSWING 2 by training allas

Captain and Crew of "NEPTUNg"

Bafehouses and Training Areas Exposed to AHAGRK I

Safehouse #174

Safehouse #216

Maritime training site

Survival training site

Fring range

BICBET

---

## Page 10

RYBA,

KUBARK Personnel Exposed to AKAGREE 1:

Irving N. PEGGINS as

"Joe Webster"

Reuben A. HANULA aS

"Fred"

Rudolph M. SOSPINE 88

Andrew S. PARKERS AS

"Jack*

"Angel Martin"

Daniel V. GUSSOW aB

"B111"

Humphrey O. EDDERY as

"3k1"

Stuart V. KAPRIDNO as

"Dewey"

Alton T. PIENACK as

"Larry"

Fletcher K. THENE 88

"Harry"

Paul V. MENDECINO aS

"Ted"

Wilfred R. KNEAFSY as

"Pete"

Floyd H. RUSANOWSKI a8

"Jack"

Paul I. NAPOLILLI as

"Paul"

G. Agent Personnel Exposed to AMAGREE 1:

AMPANIC 14 A8

"Enrique"

AMPAL- 1 AB

"Joe"

ANSKING bY training a11a8

ANSWING 2

ALLABEL 1 a8

AXTRUNK-7 AS

AMTRUNK-8 as

AHTRUNK-9 as

AXTRUNK-16 as

• ASONIC: aS

ALHINT 48 43

"Terry"

"Carlos Menendez,

"Tomas Bodriguez,

"Jose Lopez"

"Juan Gonzalez"

"Juan Sanchez'®

"Paco Gonzalez"

AMLITAINT-1 by true name

AXICE-14

• AMARA-1

Captain and Crew of "NEPTUNE"

Safehouses and Training Areas Exposed to ANTRUNE- 16:

Safebouse #104

Safehouse #216

Maritise Training Site

• Faring Range

KUBARE Personnel Exposed to ANTRUNI-16:

Irving N. PEGGINS ag

"Joe"

Reuben

A. BANNULA as

"Fred"s

Stuart V. KAPRIDNO as

"Dewey""

Alton T. PIRNACK as

"Larry"

Wilfred F. KNEAFSY as

"Pete"

Keith D. WINETT as

"B111*9

training Inatructor

*8

., LCFlUTTER operator

• tra1n1og Inetructor

training taetructor

• training Instructor

• ICPLUTTER operator

BECEIT

DESERSIIZSD

RVRAT

---

## Page 11

SECRET

- 3-

.:AT

31482

J. Agent Personnel Exposed to AUTRUNK-16:

AMICE-14 by true first name and training alias

ANTRUNK-7 by true Dame

ANTRUNK-8 by true name

ANTRUNK-9 as "Jose Lopez".

AMTRUNE-13 as "Maximo*

AMAGREE as "Mario"

AMAKA-1 aS "Antonio""

ALLABELL as ngerry"

Captain and Crew of "NEPTUNE"

FAt:

2706:

SECRET

DESENSITIZED

DVDAT

---

## Page 12

SECRET RYBA! ATTACHMENT B

DESENSITIRCL

EQUIPHENT LIST

Five nan Inílltration tean (2 1n11ltrees, & guides and radop)

• Material to be Cached:

• 1 RT-48 Mediun Speed Communicationg Gear

Personal Weapons and Equipment

6 Belgian Browning 9 a. Metole

& 2 M3 8Hs

8. 2 YAL 7.82

Autonatic R11l08

i. fo. 200 Rounds 9 mn. Arno

100 Rounda 45 Cal Anne

i.

•B..

300 Rounds 7.62 Ammo

?. '12 Magazinos fOr 8 MI. Anno

'Bo: 10 Magazines for 45 Cal Ano

Do: 23 Magazines for 7.62 Amac

10.: & Sten Anno Carriers

. 11. & BAR Ammo Carriers

12. 5 Pistol Belta

14. 3 8. Suspenders

18. 4 Canteens M/CUp and cores

16. 1 Entrenching Tool

17. 1 Machete w/scabbard

18...

& Trench or Bowle Knives w/scabbarde

10.

1 Pr. Binoculars

20.

§ 81lva Compasses

4235-

SECRET

DESERSTIED

9is22:

---

## Page 13

--.

SECRET

1BA7

DESENSITIZED

14.217

21. 5 UDT type Watches

22. 5 Plastic Waterproof Flashlights

23:

5 Backpacks

24• 20 Watorproof Baga

85• 5 Swiss Pocket Inives

26. 5 Zippo Lighters.

27.

? Netascopes

•28. 5 Penlights

?29.

10 Plastic or Bubber End Caps for 45 Cal SIO Lagizines

30. 8 Hand Grenades

C. Rations

•1. 12 Black Concentrated Rat1018

20 C Rations (1 box = 3 sais)

3. ..

Assorted Cans Fruit, Ment, Boans, oto,

4. Assorted Packages Rico, Dry Beans, Coffee, 0te:

56.*. *100 Bouillon Cubes

6 Packages Tropical Chocolate Barg

Do Medical Supplies

I Corpaman's Flrat Ald Kit with borphine Syrettes and

codeine in meta. container

2. 5 Individual. First Ald Kite

200 Coricidin P1lla

100 APC Tablets

5.

100 Water Purification Tableta

16.: 100 VItamin Tableta

7.

100 AcronyCIn Tablets

9-424

in are

Managea

8 B CRET DESENSITZED

DVRAT

---

## Page 14

BAT

3

E. Clotbing

SECANSITIZEO

1. 5 Sets Fatigue Uniforms, HBT Shirts and TrOuBerS

* 5 Fatigue Caps

• 3.

inionis

3 Civilian Sport Skirta

1. 5 Pra Ciyilian Trousera

5 Pr. Civilian 84000

6. • 5 Pr. Jump Boots

1. 5 Lesther Belts

.. 8. 15 T-Shirte

'D. 15 Pr. Undershorts

10.. 15 Pr. Bocke

1l.' B Pr. Light Gloves

12. 5 Sete Foul Feather Abber Valford

13.

5 Berets

I". & Green Ponchos

15.. § PI. Insulated Underwear

÷16. § Field Jackets

c." Communications Gear

I.

J ERAd' Receiver (for OWVL)

1' RS-502 8/81gna1 Ples (continuous guera Chensol)

G. Secret Iriting Materials

3 80 2 801 pot Pinla vita Estra Carbons and Brira Viale

F. Internediate Craft

1o:

'Currituck" Model, Painted Dari

BECRET

RYA TEET

---

## Page 15

SECRET

- 4.

RESTIE

2.

2 75 hp Commercial Outboards +/Tool Kit

3. T Fiberglass Outboard Fuel Tanka, Capacity 13 Gal. lach

8 Horizontal Tanks, 81zo 11}% 261 x 123"

1 Vertical Jank, 8ize 134 & 261 = 101

1. 5 Flotation Quahlong

•So 2 Alr Inttresses

6.

extra Propellere and Drive, Shoar and Cotter Ping 80r

- both Connercial Outboards

%.

5 Black UDT-type Ille Preservera

8. I Piro Extinguisher (for Gasoline Fires)

'8." 1 12-1b. Anchor

10.

(or 3 Poet of 3/4 1nch Plastio Tuking)

11.

2 Oars, Length 10 feet

iv 12. 3 Hooden Push Poles, Longth 13 feet, Didefer 21"

C poston:

4 280: 1 Plastlo Balling Bucket, 1 900t deep i

14..:' 2 3-Gallon Plastio Jerrycans (10r vater)

15.

8 Extra Bpark Pluga (1 for erch Consorcial Outboard)

16.

3 Rolls, Non-Shiny Plastic Tape

17.

50 1t. finch Nylon Rope

28.

200 1t. Parachute Cord

19' 1 Snall Hamner

: 20.

•* Pr. Pliera

con 721. 1 Screwdriver

22. I Spark Plug Wrench

л. *

: 23..

B Upright Poles, 39 feet in Length, ™/Oarlock

SECRET

---

## Page 16

SECRET

5 -

SESSHSITIZED

24. 1 Ritchio Compass

25. 1 Sheet Camouflage Material, 20' x 10'

26.

1 RB 9.6

• 27. J HRT-7 Beacon

Maps

Maritime Charte

2 H.0. 1002

2 H.0. 2624

₴ H.0. 0944

Series E723, 3-AUS,

1:50,000

2 ea. Sheets 4085 I

4085 IV

4085 II 4085 III

1084 I 4084 IV

J. Miscellaneous

Cleaning Gear for 9 an Pistol, M3 SIt end FAi Including

RIG Gun Grease

2.

200 1t. Parachute: Cord

3.

Box of Matches and Fatexproof Containers 10r 8870

12 Polyethylene Bags

4 Large Enough to Contain FAL

4- Large Enough to Contain Assembled M3

4 18" Size for Personal Documents, etc.

2 Sheets Infra-Red Paper, 18" x 24"

6.

1 Dynalite

7. 14 Extra 7lashlight Batteries

8.: 4 Flashlight Bulbs

9.

8 Extra Penlight Batteries

BICRET

---

## Page 17

-i*.

SECRET

- 6 a

"BAT

DESENSITIZED

10. 4 Packs Lighter Flints

11. 4 Cans Lighter Fluid

12. 1 Set Parallel Rulerg

, 13. 1 Set Dividers

Il. & Protractors, Metal

15. 2 Pocket Rulers, Metal

16. 1 Flat M111 File

17. 1 Pocket Carborundun Stone

18. 1 One-Burner Gas Stove-Butane Gas or Similar Type /Extra

Cylinders of Gas

?. 19: 1 Cooking Pot (at least 8" In Diameter)

20. 5 Kn1fe-Fork-Spoon Sets

21. 2 Messkits

22.

Box of Insect Repellent, 48 Small Plastic Bottles

23. 6 Cang Spray Paint, Black

24. I Can Saddle Scap

25. 1 Package of Sponges

26. Tollet Paper

27. Hand Soap and Detergent

28.

Paper Plates

29.

Plastic Spoons

30.

Assorted Fishhooks and Line

'31. 8 Burlap Bags

32. Assorted Empty Cardboard Boxes

SE CRABSTI

---

