# 104-10404-10437_1

## Page 1

110470404-0437

MOAT

SECRET

12 JIN 16.

SEMORANDUN NO.

SUBJECT:

Garziaos and is Bennedy Anssamination

I. SUMMARY

Tals memorandon le lengthy becauss li reports on thirty

persone Involved In Corridone loventiston, Elght of these Enve or

had DD" les. (Of tine sight, three bare or bad hono contact wich

t3n Domendic Contort Serves an weil.) Eight more were DCS contacts.

Fouston had no alilladon with the Agnay sut claimed to bava or vero

nald by otiors to hare lad osch a relationship. Savas of total ol tality

navo not appearad praviouely la tale sextes.

3. The DDP contacta are the following:

Francies Antonio SARTES Clarent. Cuban salagee

losder la Now Orlenno who tas cone to Cartinor's attention.

DDP pilol 29 July 1965 to 11 February 1966. DOS contact

4 May 1901 to present.

3. George BROW.. Garrloon le reporedly trying to

lasplicate la la the "assassinallos plot". Bas been boch a

DDP and a DCS contact, Detallo are being ascertaland asd will

ba reported.

Le Norzas BRADLSY. Carrivon has charged

an Edgar Esgine BRADITY with being ose of the conspirators

out nay han coniused bin with Leslle Norman BRADIET Tie

lator was eniployed no a co-pilot by a ClA controlied air las

Irais 26 May 1056 nail 11 503l0-ber 1957. He dad on DCS

meeting on 26 June 1953.

d. Alberto Federleo FERNANDEL Mechav

Identified to Garrison an i Caban leader associated vith Lawrence

JUBDÀ LABORDE, DOP conset from December 1959 10 presert..

His son las reported

on him and bie associates to Cartion's stall. DD? costact

IrazA Fabrary of MATCh 1941 10 20 A3rll 1762.

MONS

SEGRET

---

## Page 2

13-00000

i. AUTeàI. MCRAN. Had bees suittioned y

Garrisan's sail. DOP contact frora 21 Decerase: 1962

do premont. DCS contact iron 11 Decenises 196% lo

present Stace 13 Novemsor 19b4 contacle lor tse DES

bave coon handled by the Des.

Vicios Manal PANEGUE y BAILA. Has

boan identiind to Currison as inving soon in chargo of a

CIA training canp in Louislana. DDP fram 11 Novanber

170 20 31 064600r 1965.

¿ EmiL» SANTANA Callado, Use daterrogated

by Garrison and alail lor lim days la Fabrary 1967. DDP

contact from October 1961 1 Octobes 1953.

3. Ibe ECS echlacis are tre illowies:

=. Carlos Jose DAINCUIER. Has been laterrogated

and pOlystaphed by GArrisoN. DOS coNNC Februaty and

Aaril 196%

Willian Vayne DALtELL. Has sees questloned

by Garrison and stali. Allogod he was ailliated vita ClA.

DC! codlact in Novesher 1960 and In January aad Febraary 1961.

Gerald Pairies HEMMING Is. Wasidanilliad to

Garrison's stall as d para railitary tantrackas 01 Cabass and

later voltod Garrison's olilee. DES CantaC IFOM Ociober 1930

to March i 961.

$. Jack N. ROGERS. A Baton Louge attorney ls toach

wilb Carrleon's atail. DOs costact iron Septeraser 1953 10

the present

*. Clay 5HAW. Arrasted oy Carrison on a cbarge al

con drin, to as.18a1ase frosident Koanody. DCS tre from

December 1741 to May 1756.

1. CECil MAMell SHILSTONE. Meter o Trot and

Contesooners, Inc, miles donies money to Cortison's office.

Iliolong friend ol two co-bere of the DES siller la New Orioaos,

bat oliicial contact ended in l9sá.

---

## Page 3

13-00000

SCHLUMBERCRA Well Sutreying Corporation

Sale oy Gartions aná acare to tara buen le original cuner

at crosives rancorod iron a bunsor at CLA'e lastigation

¿or 15e at the Bay ol Fiza, Current DCs contaets with

vArIo SCHUGHBERGES NICeS.

h. John Carrot UNDERHUL. II. Dead.

Mar arts has played him up as a ClA contact tao kaew

tant sta A goney vas jebinú she assaadina, DOS contact

¡rora lato i)4s to tha mid 1950'a.

3. Ine persons ialadly clalrias Agassy stilliation. or

about whom buca cialia bave been made by seaura, ara cue folloudag:

Valerine ASSWORTH, Isterriowed by Garrican'a

Now in Jall, ASHVONTH has sialzed a link with Cas

and forsar sssociation with Oswald.

Gay BANISTER. Dead.

Rama arts has alleged

that he man annotated wun ClA sod with Martenen invalid

$a the annannibatien

MAuIS JIDORS GATLIN Si. Dead.

R9r128719

saa allaged dant to was associald situ BANIstea and cla.

I. Dard W. FEARIE, Doad. Garrisca tas Charged

Bas fERRIS was 1 nambar di the conacizacy Tortos anagerinador

of Presidan Kenty and that he partss for CLA.

a rosbortal missess. Gatrieve charged that he worked for cLA.

1. LATERAtO JUAN BOWARD IT. As above.

Jules Niceo Flush, Chered in ornation to

Garcinon'o azali. Claired alilliation wila ciA.

h. Ins LOGAN. Said by Gardes NOVEL and

RANA I AM A01& CH 0 19 106 3

Democrate Cura in Hew Orlease. No sortnent dents able

Information orlete.

---

## Page 4

13-00000

1.

Richard Cass NAGEl. Clalos lalariy to savo

oerned to FbI oníore the assassination. Claira lalealy

so bo Agoncy-sillliasod. Sorilagà ton-jear tarin la El taso.

Lienthly nad enotional; sance.

j. Lionald P. NORTON. Mirs to Men Orloans at

Carrison's esponse and dabrinied to a ta ,oi intervier.

Chamed 0x naive lins wis ClA, Star, Farrle, and Cawald.

Dischasgod fron the D.5. Als Force for paychlatric ressone.

/. Gardon Dusas NOVEl. Garriton souyse da extradit

Ais iron Obie ds a Witins, Both NOVEL and Garriaos have

taloals asserted that NOVEL verked loT ClA.

Le Hazy O54A1D. Carriess alloges thal be

1. Jack RUBI, da asovo.

1. Lanard Stewa:t SUGGS. Clina to se sn invent eror

IDE GOTTOOR. Clain iOrmOr CLA 62.

I. DETAILS

Tals mororanden sorides talermation 150nl two 89

Janes6. Carrison's investigation di the 1410asation of seraident .

Senody and who are or tore ausociated mist ClA, Iioration la slao

included about a thiid calegary - 109s Who Have Devar becs associated

wIth CIA but siout whom s ClA le bas iven assertod, ly toreelms or

obers.

¿. Group l la the trol caligury conalato dí azadent or ior sa?

DDP confact», GrSno 2 consis ai present oT SMAI DES contacto.

Group 3, ao pas noted abars, condiale of impoetor and dl Obera 13o

tava bad ne sosociation with the Agency bis who have sain alleged y

tadId parties is do GlA-illased.

3. Groen I (botal o1 3)

#. Francisco Antonio BARTES Clareas (201-230395).

---

## Page 5

13-00000

(1)

Prlor roferences; lainorandus, mabject.

Corrison Investigation di beanidy Assassinadon.

FraNCISe ANtONO BANTIS CHIeDO (201-139595),

20 November 1767.

(2) Involvecent in Garrison'o investigadon:

tho Cabrz Raroladonary Cousci (CRC) la New @rieans

and SiA carior to to LaTreNCO LABORDE and 04301s

la suopost to guerrius traialag for antá Caste, Cubane

bas alzaady, hoveves, beas seass lo Garrison'o altetion.

(3) DDP and DCS Feli ho:

(a) DDP. Alchzaga a POA for aso 1n

JMATZ was raysosted sn 29 Deceder 1949 and

granted 30 Jannary 1761, the requise was eancellod

Da 30 AGgAEt 1961, ANd BARIAS wal pos aned

durtur this interval. (Pos JAWAVE 3433,

* December 1067.) On 27 Mag 1765 SOD/AB/O95/3

pilot da the Congo, The DOA was granted os

Iú July 1943, and an O4 on 1 Septersbor 1945.

Testing a Faojoeta saill as a pilot coroalad, somare:.

tas le con not qualiled isr the latandrd aanigerent.

Ho mas raturned to the U.S. on li Fobriacy 1146

sitasu sarina seen sond oasadonaily.

(5) DCS. The leit contsce of DCS New

OReANs Wi BARTES OCCUrIEd ON 4 MAr 1921.

Bosween thal Caso and ? Jansary 1957 a total el

11 n606AgD 100 Phe

•al= DCS seporta, Costaci bas not bren terziasted.

b. Ceorge BROWN.

(1) Prior retorences:

None.

(2) Involvement la carrieso Inrestigacioni A

DOS Houston ropore di 27 Decendar 1917 scales 1aat

Chorge DROWN cocrived a disturbing lelaphone call on

22 Decenber 1957 from Hugh AYNESWORTI de Hewswars.

sho nald chas BIll "Cervage" (Comeeat: Presnsoly

identeal mits Willan N. GURVICH) bad Indicated that

---

## Page 6

13-00000

aurelson may try ta loplicate BaOWN is tha

'sonassination plat", "In allocalon la that is sone

unspected sauer Bisun was involved with the ClA

¡n its objockire di 'coveriag ap"loe "considrasy' for

President Johnaon. Ayresworts said Gervage

cocainents, including at least one in Carriaon's owa

handwridad, walen pradnably bast been extracted

Iron Garrison's fles.

(3) DD? soladonabip; Tha Aberp I0D0r8 Bays

that BROWN has cooperated closely with ClA la lunding

operatione, Checks are under way:

c. Loll Norman SAADLEY (201-7%7973).

Pylor serencesi omarandain Na. 1.

26 April 1937, Esclopure $i Lembrandzn Ni. 7,

3 Say 1957, Enclosare %.

(3) Invalvement in Carraos's invastiguilan:

Mont known to date. During the vees 21-25 December

1957 saporal U.5. bewsnapors zeported that oa 20

Decomber Garriaon's oilice had accused one Edgar

Eager BRADLEY # Norts Hollywood, California, ol

conspiriny lo assassinate President Kennedy. On 27

Ducembes la was arraigned on a lugitive complaint and

roloaded on lis own recogolzaaca. Extraction is eurcently

5920€.

These la so ClA record si Edgar Lugone BRADLET.

On or aboat 20 Detambo, 1961, borever, the Warbiagean

A/LOl residing bealle Normas BRADLEY.

The Mawsweek

¿asun Ol 6 Jantary 1955 apaculated that Gartleon might

bare conlused Edgar Eagena wish alther al two sibes inas.

one siwbaa!a",.. a sonedia Nay Orleans pilot

same Bradley #ho mao once jalled in Caba for and-Castro

actlviiies." Tids descripilos lts Leslie NotizAn DRADLEY.

(3) DDP and DCS rolationstips:

(a) At dio Ioquere, Lealle HOrAS BRADLEY

mas nist by the DCS olfleo la Minneapolla los one

and a halé hours in 26 Juze 1963. Ibero was no

atber DCS contact.

---

## Page 7

13-00000

(D) BRADLEY and to: concanlons

were arreated 2y Cabaa G-2 an 23 May 1760

on a chaija o counterrevolationary activity.

BRADLEY collaborated with the Guban

suthorities willo Inprisones on the lola si P136.

He waa copatrated, with other Americans,

on 22 April 1 943.

(=) DDS-AB roguested a Piovialonal

Coyort Seenrity Approval on 26 May 19àt la

sra, to us Lenile Norman BRÄDLEY Inside

the continental U.S. as a com lal caployed sy

Soutern dio Traport he. , Mlari, On 31

Jetoser 1960 DOS-HB requested cascallation.

#t enployment was considered tornauter

Il was later enabliabes, homever, that Subjoct

remained aployee ants 12 5931e73341 1957,

when be bas drosed lor ansatislactory perferrance.

Tarties Inquiry la ander way.

&. Alberto Federies FERNANDEZ Hochavarsia (201-251353).

Ppior solarences: blensraedan Ns. 5.

7 Asgas8 196%, Encloure Bi Monorandu a No. 6,

7 September 1967, part.

(2) Invalronent in Carriaon's Isrostigation

FERNANDEZ was Identhod lo one o Larisona stati

as thu head of a Cuban organizaton which employed

3nv7aace Josept LABORDS (see below) and etsars.

LABORDE' son Michaol alas said that tia latber varied

for Sha.

contact o me Miaind Statlon from December 19750 to tbe

prosest, althougà paymest ceased on l Decombez 1965.

e. Lawrence JOSaDa LABORDE (201-394633).

(1) Prior reierences: Hensorandun Mo. J,

1 Juno 1367, 2. 7 ane Enclosuro 2; Memorandus No. 8,

20 June 1967, ps. l sad 3; Monorandan No. 5,

7 August 1767, j. 3 Memorandas Na.¿, 7baptezeber

1908: p9. 4 and 3.

---

## Page 8

13-00000

(2) Involvement la Garsioon's investigallon:

On 11 May 1957 LABONDE telepbonad the DCS olfice

in New Orleans, said that ha was an ex-CLA emuloyes,

addad that co foaxed Garrison would sabpoena bir,

and roquested anslatasce or advice. Michael s.

LABORDE, the son el Lawrence, bas told nembera of

Garrioon's stali that bis fathor ma asssetatad with

AISeZO FERNANDEZ (eet preceding sua-paragrapa),

with cars Palich HEMMiNG, and one "Ilay" /

LErOY COLLINS / In training Cubase as guerrilla

ElZHOzA, MiCHAel LADORDE bas alao iaplicated CLA

la the training. Os 27 Saptember 1967 Lawrence J.

LABORDE again called the DCS witles in New Orleans.

In accordance vito Headquartera' lastrucdone he was

told Bat there was noting to diacuss.

(3) DDP relationate: LABORDE WAS a DDP

contact from Jabruary sI March 1901 to 20 April 1962.

He served as acing captals ol a vessel soned by

FERNANDEL and aned oy the lilaci Statios la Cuban

oprationa.

I. Alfred J. MORAN (201-776772).

(1) Polor references: Home.

(7) Involvement in Carriaon's lavestigation A

mezorandam from DCS New Orleane, 15 Narember 1967.

reported thai Firer C. Leake of that oifice and Alired

J. MORAN are very good iriendo, that Lante attended a

paTty Al MORAN'S bome on 14 Novembe: 1967, and that at

thai time MORAN told Leake that he (MORAN) had bees

la tonch with a sember di GarTison'S SIAL, Assistant D. A.

JUICES ALCOCK, Who questoned MORAN abOUt 21

occasiOn wen Clan BERIRAND INd MORAN were la tre

VIP room of Baatera Airlises at the New Orleane

Interaational Airpast. MORAN told Leake that lo hia

optalon Garrison has as "Ironclad" esto sgaina: Clay SHAW.

A DCS New Orleane report al 13 Decemier 1967 adds that

MORAN told heale on 11 Docember 1967 Mat ALCOCK

and another espresentative al Gistlson's oilice had alown

him, sometime la 1967, what was alloged to be a photocopy

ol the daily los tram the VIP roora at the airport, MORAN

---

## Page 9

13-0000Q$1

rocogated his son sigaaare dad that of Arthur 0.

DAVIS la ironinant Now Orleans arebitoet).

that the sa:s Cler BERTRAND vas poinled out so li

in the liet aud that Clay HAl's sare was sot do tie

1I1as. AbCOCil and hia colleague nald thai a hasdoriday

expert had conidimad that lie signatura "Clom BERIRAND"

tid Dean Fritzan by SHAW. In la noiad isat the DGS

zaport si lo Novambor 1757 qadies MORAN as saying that

SHAW sas in tse VIP rooin on the pecasion about shich

ALCOCK queStioed MORAN, Mbereas tbe 13 Decodet

1947 IAD0II QUOtOS MORAN da saying iba: ho sid aot dee

SHAy la the 70023 at that flina.

(3) DDP asd DOS soladonatioo:

(a) DDY. A check ol MORAN's luo showed

that he was cleared so 15 December 1742 for als

by Miami Stalion. He san aspreached on 27

December 1967 by Mra, Garmel I. Dillar, actiag

on behalf of the Statios and carough too good sifices

•i DES New Orleans. Agrasiag to belo the Stailon

in cover cialtors, lo became president of tea

14655

Survey. Mac,

MORAN "also permits use of his owa

Mianxi Slation cable 0425.

2) Normber 1957, does not Idently MORAN's iNs

corinary, Dal DOS New Orleans bas reporied that

be was the lost presidest of Kalrar Corporalios,

which mannaclured microdim, MORAN tra achd

as a spoites lor the Miami Station and has

rocormended saveral other basisesamon who are

being used by the statian.

availablo sereral oil compantas in milan e owne

operational vessela of tse Statiou.

Fa 18 01 173

bean ssed by Headerantra lor several activities

directed by the Cilice of Loglalies. Of Mlari Stadon

DERAIDAA MORAN had act Mo. Roy E. Millard and

Mr. Charles C. C. Tras (lormerly DDS/Oifice

of logistica) as vell sa Mrs. Dollar. In adalton to

Peso and ts0 bial station ansational vessel 3215.

fe aido snowe tas liani aitarusy li. Jasoo Contable

= y

24

124

---

## Page 10

13-00000

particloses in Station activists.

The latest

droct iliam! Earlon contact of record la dated

17 Norsia00r 19b4; since trai die, Mappears.

DDy Intereat ive been trotered by DEs Mew

Isloans, Miami Station recorin releet thai

MORAN la a ireod of Messro, Lawronce&. Thie,

Alan Warlold, aod Jamen A. Carriess, the former

Director al Logistied, now retired

(b) DES, MOZAN was first la sificial

connet with the Des New Orleant offlee on

21 Docomber 1961. Tiere bare been 11it0en

villaini contete siace sher. He la not the source

oí any DCS report, but so has Sues neatloned la

one sporazional report leon to low Oriensa

silice. An of 2) November 1967 the latest sificial

contact lad occurred on 20 Noveraber 1957, when

NOBAN algad SnO Curporate pApers for Ase

Marine Survey tas

VICIor MaMol PANEOUE Y BATISTA (201-296382).

(:)

Pilor roierence: Mazerandas No. b

7 So,dember 1967, 29. 94%.

(2) Evolvement in Carrion's larstigation: Ia

• 12ped Interviem of 21 Jnsuary 1947 Carlos COIROCA told

CASTiNOR BA PANEQUE tao in charge ol a CLA sralaing

casso condueted for Cabare iros Miani in Lacombo, 19..

fa hugoat 1363.

(3)

Do? rolationehip: A P0A lar DANAQUE'S 6S0

Mas Erased the Lilar Station on 13 November 1054.

Tho Sideri soqueas had sintad that be vas to be baod *as an

iniliare and radis operales".

A TagorE ol 1D August 1954

stood that lse bad kron loilltrated icto Cabe 1a Jane 195

on behal et tho Chrlation Derocratle Movement.

Wether

he tria sned operatonally is not staled la PANEOUT's 201.

Els ms tormented slicctin 31 October 1963 for lach ol

# immoctate operational de.

2. Einilo SANTANA Gallato (291 - 335956).

(1) Prior celerences: Monorander No. 3,

3 May 1967, Exclosuro 23; Memorandare No. 3, i Jatte

1907, Enclosure No. l1 Memorandira No. 1, 27 Jase 1P$7.

---

## Page 11

13-00000

(

pp. l and 3; Menorandon No. 4, I Septezber 1967,

(1) Larolienent la Carainon" lavastigation:

SANIANA vas queddonad by Garrison and stall droi

12 45 17 February 1907.

(3) DDP relationhis: SANTANA was recroited

oy tre Miami Station in October 1952, Aler particizaling

1n May 1933 in a single lailliratios • exílitrallon operatles.

be mas derainated la October 1963.

1. Group I (ratad at 3)

#. Carlos Jose BRINGULER (201m4)9343).

Prior rolerescon: Hemorandom No. I, 24

April 1357, Enelanure No. 6i Mamerandar No. 3.

! June 1967, 7. 5, Memorandum Ns. 4, 20 June 196%,

77. 1 and 3.

(3)

Involvement in Carsison's investigation:

BINGUIER haD ben gestosed And polymAgiod Dy

Garrison.

Among the questions asked di SRINGUIER

wbile be was baing polygraphed was wbelher he tad bees

contacted by CLA. He said that te bad not.

(3) DOS relatimohis, DCS New Orleans interviewed

BRINGUIER lour times, at his roquent, on 1 and 2 February

1947 aad on 5 and D April 1957. As ol 13 Detober 1941

(1) PIlos Mierences:

Memora adam so. 4,

20 Juse 1907, po. 2, 5, ind d, Memorandar No. 6.

7 Septerabar 1967, 3. 4.

(7) lavolverest la Garsivon's investigation.

Gordon NOVEL has stated thn: Carsinct is Interested

In DALZELL, BAzpartS d JanAry 1969, 2. 57, Miatro,

"Another Lol the iscorporators of the Frienda ol

---

## Page 12

13-00000

Democratic Casa 7 was Willan Wayza Dalzel.

Arencis (5ne7 and san atlls another la The

[W. Guy Banister colerio de sloukab.

To a state

Bera reporter he admited ho was CLA. " Billiar 8.

Turner, the wilter of lie cited Raparto articlo and

al other alacka by lassaria da CLA sad the fBl. slated

therein that be had worsed closuly wits Garrion sad

11m stall for airo moniho. The San Francisco Chronice

of 27 Decesbor 1967 quoted Currison is saying.

"Erory word ln Rampanto la securalely stated."

DCS relatonship: DAizalt iad three

conact with Dos Nen Oilet. They occurred on

15 November 1960, 20 Janangy l96i, and I Fabreasy

1951, Troy concernod blo proposala lor 1 Radio Fred Cuba.

6. Gerald Fairiet HENNING I. (291-309123).

(!) Prior seierences: Horandom No. 5.

7 Augual 19471 Maraorantain, dabject: Crart of Carsison

Cass, & Norecabar 1967.

(2) Involvemant la Carriaon'o lovestigation:

Michal W. LABORDE told memiara di Carrison'o stali

that his faiber Lawrence had vorked la ClA with anil

Castro Cabana. Bo named "Jerry Palrick", tha is

HAMMING, and one "Roy", probably Laroy COLIINS,

no sasocisted with harresee LaboRDE. He added that

Jerry Pairies and Boy "dused Cubase out of oney" and

were dismissed sy ClA. On a July 1957 HEMLING and

21 BRANCiA, POEMblY COLLINS, vent to Carrion'e

They said that they were working for an unidersiled

magasino and zand to do i story on lhe Carrisen

avestigalion HEMNING has bees reported by the d'Bl

and is tre press an a soldier of lorhase who bas given

stra-milliary training to anti-Casiro Cuban zelugess.

A teletype ci 3 Septembes 1967 Cror de DCS affice la

Los Angeles stales ther HEMMING bad claimed that a

19 autonatic contisentod by a shoril's alítco in Los Angeles

bad been lassed to hira by cha.

12

---

## Page 13

13-00000

13) DCS relationably, HEMMING vas li

contact wit the DCS office is Los Angeles beteers

Coloser Was and Mares i93l:

ba is the source oi

14 DES reports on Cuba.

d. Jack N. AOGERS.

(1) prior relorence: Memorandam No. 4.

20 June 1967, 7p. 1 and 3.

(2) Involvement in Garrison's investigates:

ROCERS as boen in touch witb Carrlaon's staff about

¿Se aSsaSHisaLiOn DUCALE Dl ROGERS' position as

committee counsel fur the Join Lagialatlve Committee

on Un-Anerican Activited of the State of lisa.

Ha han said that ho ln confident that Garrison cas prove

a close association belmen Orwald and Jaci Buoy and a

conspiracy lavolving Clay Shew."

(3) DOS selatonsale; BOGHAS nao been a source

• DCS New Orleans oise Sesamber 1999 and in "tha

source or contact for trelse reports from that afflee.

e.. Clay SHAW.

(1) Polor relesences: brauranda No. 1.

26 Moril 1907, Enclosaro 2i; Memorandass No. 4, 20 Jae

1967, 20. 2, 4o and 5.

(2) lavolveman la Garrood's Investigation:

SHAW was charged by Carriaos in March 1907 of conspiring

to assasateal President Kennedy, Hia cass has aot gez

come so trial. Ramparts al January 1948 liais SHAW tO CLA.

(3) DCS relationship: SHAW was a contact of the

DCS sillee in New Orleans ison December 1993 to May 1956.

Darlag tbat poslod Mt. Hunter Leake contacted him oiletally

thlity times. Thess contacts produced a total of aight reports.

1. Well twell SHASTONE.

(!) Prior reference:

Memorandam, subject:

Chart of Carriaon Case, 2 November 1967. 7.15.

13

---

## Page 14

13-00000

(2) Involve-neat in Garrison's lavestigailan:

SHILSTONE la a member of Tratà and Conaaguances

Inc., a gusdo di alfluent Neo Orleane badinoseman

who have donated sadiacioned a souais di money to

Carrison's oífice lor his uso in paying lavestigative coass.

(3) DOS aladona SHIDLSTONE Las been a

lialong islead of missusa. LloydA. Ray and Hastes

Leake ol too DOS silico ln Now Orienna. Ho la ibe sorres

of too vary old 00-B reporte. Tho ollielal (but not tha

personal) zelationahip caased ta Masch 1956.

& SCHLUMBIRGER ball Sorreying Corporatios.

(1) Prior referonces: Monosadda No. 2s

§ May 1967, Enclonare 24: Memorasdar No. $,

20 June 1967. Pp. 1 and 4.

(3) Involvement la Carolson's laventigatlon:

The press has sopeated diatements by Cardon NOVEl

Making tals flrra do ClA. NOVEL has claired that

explosives which ho and olhero removed iron a brakes

It Fraina, Loalalara, ai tbe instigation al ClA, bore

*he SCHLUMBEAGER stam,.

(3) DOS relazlonssia. In June 195% mas a contact

between Charles A. DOR, distrter manager of ta

SCHLUMBERGER sileo in Now Orleass, and the New

Orleans DCS silice, morsover, DOS has carzent

contacts with the main SCHLUMBERGEN sulee I

Noucson ans with thrus or lour vabalciaziss cisewhere.

PCS dealiago with the lira have been clecanapret

a. Jana CaTION UNDERHILL IT.

(1) Prior zolorenes: Mamoradon, sabjeet:

Sa-spareS: JOba Garrett UNDERHI! JI., Sardel George

CUNGINGS, ANd INTERARICO, 19 JUly 1967.

(2) Involverent is Gasrison's inrostigation:

Basparta of June 1947 clained that UNDSRHILL, 207

dead, was "ch intate ters with a zumber of liga-

razilay ClA olilciale - ho was one of the Agency's

---

## Page 15

13-00000

"17-p80210' tho perior social asalnenta."

29:320:19 0i Jaruary 1903 aldo, "Fiscastatoly sites

tue assassination, o Matraigal Godarbli told friende

that a senil-salonomon. CiA chique wolch had sees

pruitarina la sarcuties and san-tooning was laclicated

in tho assaroisation." Tue close Gorises Iurses

ansociation and Carriaon's vouchiag for the accuracy

naiu alrollar asteriloss tinos bia case cordo to trial.

Infrequant contact of the DOS New Yers olilee from

Lalo 1949 Do 200 mid- 1950's. Fis mas sot eaployed by

Bat cine.

Tho purpose al contact waa to ditala positios

foreiga latelligence.

5. Grona Ill (total of 14)

= VAlendAs ASHWORTH (201-337354).

(i) Prior rolarences; Nose.

(2) Involvecool in Carriaon' Investigation:

OR Y OCODe 14SZ ASHVERTH SAn a I0itar iron.

Lennille, Lublalara, to tso Cuban Ambassados la

Maice.

He silared Informatios coact the "Guban Balder

Casenanú" and the "geople's Barolutionary Movement?

in exchange for holp in delectog ta Cuba. No sala that

ClA de bot bave the same Iníomination, Arrested on

15 May 1935 for Irontigation si aalo tsets, ASHWORTH

send as 7B1 ssecial agent that he sad particinatod in

AVATAl FAIdE In CObO, 1ouZ be DAB a pilot and an expert

in explosires, and that ClA mas abare of tilo activities

334 could provide iniormalton aboal ibar. Arrested

agais on 2o April 1907 for possession as a stolen

antosable, ASHWORTH van dort to the jail la labo

Charles, monialand, A fellow is nate, one Alchare

PHILIPS, VIOL I 231 tO SAY MAI ASHWORTA claimed

lo baro shared as apartnent in Chie with Lee Harvey

Onwald, toat Dewald and de belonged to a ginap of

Daw Orleans Chians 1bo Slited President Kennedy and

Mpero sappoand to hill Castro at the saine time", tras

---

## Page 16

13-00000

"Dawalc was d pazsay (sic) and dida't fire a sbot;

thas "Bendy's samina (sic) wore, as was Dewald,

tralned sy lie CIA", ate.

On 13 October 1957 a depty

ocerilt sdvined to FBi that as anidestlied assistat

datrict attoroy on Garrison's stall had come to Lake

Charles one month earlier and had intervlowed

ASHWORTH for an hoar. Accesdiag to PHULIPS.

Carrion's reprasentatives bave quationed ASHWORTH

about four tiras and bave asiod him 1í h0 was a mesabot

of CIA, Tha U.5. Marise Corps adulood on 3 Janity

195ª that ASHWORTH enlisted on 34 Decansbar 1752,

was honorably discharged on 13 March 1953, rosaliated

tas nest day, and then served until 3 Decenbar 1934,

shes ¿iven a bad conduct dischsrgo ladlonio a general

confe martial is whach he was lound quilty of natel.

absence and lailure to obey lamial stero.

(3) ClA relationship: Noue.

b. W. Cuy BANSTEA

(1) Prior references:

2$ Aprtl 1957, Encloeuze 3; Manorandam No. 2,

B May 1967, Esclanaro 3.

(2) Involement in Carrison's lavestigation:

¡amaris of Jamary 1968, 2. 47, states Chal a forcer

Mlautenan saned Jerry Milton BROCKS tad sals that

BANISTER vas th "Tead of te Anti Cannualin Leagan

ol the Caribbeas, " Rarzarto anserts that Chis "16880"

was "ansertedly an Intermedtary between the ChA and

Cariboran isaargency movamenta. "

(3) Chi ralationalso: None. According to our

IscOrdo, Maurico BroSis GATLIN Sr. (see bolow) was

Jagal counsel aot, do Bazzasta payo, to the "Anti-

Coamunism League of the Carlbbeant bat to the "Asti-

Commabiara Cocaittes of the Americas".

FBI reporting

clearly indicates 1haz G4TLIN was làe sole mentor of

trio national group. An FBI report al l* Fabriary 1261

qUOtEd BANISTER as sHylag Blas ho had serer beez an

¿isear or member of tha "groto", CATLIl's clairs to

the contrary noiwithstanding.

---

## Page 17

13-00000

(

C. MantiCe BrOOk CATEIN $$. (301-33454)

(1) FIOS ISIDEE NON

(2) Lovolroment lo Garriaoa' Investigation:

HaTHaT о JaNa 1968 qu0i0d Oыs J0ту

BROOKS (non prucedlag sus-paragrapa) as clelming

tO bAVA bOUIS "DOSE OS SIDIO" DI GATLIN. BROOKY

clasod that abous 1952 GATZEN, "In a 1014-)20portan8

mam03", r939rh0d that le had $104,090 0 CLA Mondy

tolng to atompt to sorsarione General De Gaullo.

GATLIN ded in Farne in 1904, al Ise age of otriy-ona.

FDl reporte on bla cito neurens wis soar biz well

no saylng that bo van lanno and aboale hare boes considtto.

Lo danod Bastido A. Morales, Conal Gonasal di tha

Dossiolens Republio In New Orleans, ost al relatively

larga Burn in tan lato 1950°8. Morion noeman to hara

constered hun an gual robotaning le laterenta st

Trajlllo, silhough CATLIN was not so regiato:se wich

EdWard FAIRCHILD, JAN+S COCHRANE, RULArI WAISON,

NO COATIOS EVERETT. A tyncal saloode securtis in

Morosbor-December 1957, when CAttol vent to Fsgaes.

Orogon, bacaso he had a teory tst Jose Lo Callodes

(commenty bollored to have been iidapped in fon lori

Dy Trajlllo benchses) mas hiding out aneng Basque

phesp-harders ebore. On I DICeDe: 1957 GATLIN

protested basel to na 10l special agen la Fazeno 354

#ald that "lí to man lonno dond Is Engono lI was marer

1ot snea

(3) CIA relationhis Nona. As DO report af

10 Danember 1333 atates thaL O 19 GItOLAS 1939 GATUN

called os an 00 diace, sald lant Ilote mare schedalei to

secut la Contonala, sad añdad that de shorgi aone CLA

senteresentires thoro ighi bu in danget.

that he be frised lo tanso DI sgont WO more posing

an mambor dl te Constall primation do that ha

could provent leir seing anonianend in tIr0r."

Bo ales pagianted tani ClA re mia $73, 000 eo fund te

---

## Page 18

13-00000

d. David Wi. FERRIE.

(1) Prior reiorences: Mersaraadam No. 3,

Ÿ Auguas 1957, 3. 3; Memorandar No. 7, 13 Septensar

1957, p. 2.

(I) Involranent in Garriach's investization:

As sparta of January 1908, 22. 50 and 92, suanarised

anú anapilies Garrison'o darider charges ta! FERRIE

was omployad by CiA la anti-Castro actinity, Raparta

cites an unidentlilad source as claining that FERRE.

had confided that be "was working for the CIA reuczing

Cabaas out a1 Cantro prisona".

(3) CIA relationahip: Nona.

e, Litan (or Tawsesce) Eugene HAth (201-257411)

(i) Pilor relorences: Moorandia Mo. 5,

1 Asgas: 1967, Enclosures 13, 14, aad 23.

(2)

Involymoont in Carriaon'e lavestigation:

Dress aod radio accoasts of 29 December 1967 chroagt

I January i 108 stated thas Garrioon, on 30 December 1967.

eubpirinasd thres on as material vitrasses.

They aro

TOmas LAWard BECKHAN ol Omata, Nebraska; Loras

Eugono BALL ol Koravile, Calliorala; and Lawrenco Joha

HOWARD Jr. sl Loa Angoles. The sabodenas alleged that

HALL aNd HOWARD chocked into the Dallas Y. M.C. A.

in Octoser 1963 and renoired in Dallas until the anuassination.

HAll le sold to bave brsught a weapon to Dallas. The

osbovenas lurther alleged tsat HALL and HOWARD Tete

abosciated in Dallas vità Jair Ruby and with oters, including

Oswald, believed to have been lavolved in the asiassization.

The Carrison charges added that in New Orleans HAiL

aNd HOWARD VITO aBnOcIated With FERRIE and that in

Florida they had taken part in ClA-sponsored guerrilla

training for salde on Cabs. HAli, denied ever mectiag

1g.

---

## Page 19

13-00000

¿swald, Rusy, Ferrie, "or anyone else isvolved

in the assassication or anyone ever mentioned by

Garrioon or anybody alse".

(3) CIA relatonehip: Nose. HALL IIEd

In t3o U.3.A21Y, 1947-1937, Vest Cernasy, and

was given an honorable diucaigo los sadical reasons.

Accordiag to sla lalies, he bas sailored a cental

breakdown and in sill sosjact to sovere depression.

He san been arranted covein lines. He clalza to ba

a colitor di fortna who once served Castros cause.

but some who know him think that he la Lyiog.

I. HwIenCE JUDE HOWARD JI.

(1) Flur toerances:

Won.

(I) Involvement la Garrison's lavestigation:

See precedtos sis-paragrapi, According to the Houeton

Chronicle of 31 December 1967 she suopoena allagen

that HOWARD was engaged in ClA-sponored guerrilla

training la Florida, Louislara, asd Texas.

Ranpasta ot

January 1266 reprais the old story this Mira. Sylvia ODIO

mao vinited lo Dallas in late Sestender 1963 by three male

strangers: Leopoldo, Angelo, and "Leos Corald'.

Ramparts adds chas "Jost soloro the Warren Report sent

to preos, the EDI located three men gosstaly Identical with

NIa. Celo's proracafive visisora." Tasy were HALI,

HOWARD, and one Willlam SEYMCUR, who had an alibi.

Ramparta alloges that RAil llrot admitted but lator dented

that the tares had called on Mes, ODIO. HOWARD islad it.

(5) ClA relationabis: None.

5. Jules RICco FLMBLE.

(1) PriOs referencO:

Niemorandura No. 5,

" Septonder 1967, p. 3.

(2) lavolvemeat la Garrison's investigation:

Ramparta of January i96B atatos that KINDLE approached

reinders ol Garrinon'e osali art said that on the day

19

---

## Page 20

13-00000

altes Du Nd TERRIE died, be drove a cop ku Klaa

Klan olicial, Jac: HELM. 1O FERRIE's apartment.

'HELM cano out wilb a satchol crasuried with pagers.

which he placed la a bani taio de posti bos.* KIMBLE:

claimed that la 1902 he flow to Montrol with FERRIE

on Milanteren businoss. "Shortly niterward, be phoned

his whin iron Atlanta, saying no bad mal a CLA contact.

'They'! sover get mo vaci to Now Orleans, "he vowed."

He was arrasled, hometor, la Tampa, Wbare Garriesn's

rien questioned bim. He "said that he had once worked

special assignents for tha ClA, and in verifeation

named bla Agency concts and tha box samber at the

Lalayoite Street stallon thay assigned biis. He averred

he hid recontacted the ClA alter Walter Shoride bad

coasedled him to say nothing to the DA and go to Canada."

As FBI sepor8 of 12 January 1955 stated that ares ls the

olilco of tha abortif of Aroyallos Pariub, Loutalana, had

said thal KIMBLE la a patbologeal lar azo has had

frequent problems wita the polies and who la prone to

violence. Depaty Sherit Charles KIMBLE, holl brother

oí Islea, adviced thai hia brosses tad ade cortola lalso

stateinents to draw attention la himsali, la the hope of

getting one of jail.

(3) CIA relazionship: Nose. Ca 4 Asgust 1967

KIMBLE telophoned DCS New Orleans to say that Garrison

was trying to connect him with CLA, although he did not

koow why, and that Gassiaon had accused bim ai taking

socio papers from Ferrie'a apartmeat.

h. F184a LOGAN.

(i) Prior references: Nose.

(2) Involvamest in Garrisoo's investigation:

Ramparta ol Jamary 1709, 3. 53, says, "The Exlends os

Democrable Caba was founded January 8, 196l . . ..

Gavesment advisors lo the Friends, sayo an laformat

who was closely davolred wich the group, care a ClA min

named Logas and the FBla Regis Kensedy. . .."

On 10 May 1967 the New Crleans vitice of the FBI, reporting

23

---

## Page 21

13-00000

Information obtaled iron Gordon DuAns NOVS

quoted hira ae saying that Willtana Wayse DALZELL

(sce abuve) bad been in louch wita Keanady and vlta

CIA ONUOSO FAU LOGAN. NOVEL BEISUed ElO

¡alormazon lo DALlELL' Landlady.

(3) CLA soladanably: Nose. The DES New

Orleano office reported on 20 Jus 1967 that there has

sever boGa a LOGAN in the illico and tbas tse secords

do not railori deallage with anyone ot that namo.

Headquartero traces have not remaled = LOGAN in

Now Dalene.

I. Richard Case NAGELL (201 - 744537).

(0) Folor relorences: Nose.

(2) larolvo nant ia Garrison's investigation.

Rampsta di Jasuary 190% Stated that NAGELL ROa

Migaly deorated Islaniry captis la do Korsaa war who.

ho claimo, subsequently became a ClA agent. . . • Lo

had sent a regiatared letter to J. Edgar Hoover warning

bir di to imsendog sonsolation, patch ho saya tas

then sebeduled for the latter part of Septarabor. • • aud

Che letter had gone usanwered." According to Ramoirta,

NAGEL clairsed that two grouss called "Bravo Club" and

"Delia Clus" Joined forcas to kill Presldent Kerndy.

¡Meanwillo ClA go wind d the plass and don several agents

Into tiro fiela to ascortain wholho, they vero 'los real".

NAGELL says that he vao une of the agents diapatched

Magoli says that he was Inatracied is 'arros" the paisy,

shad lo iill tias, aiter the andasaination. "

(3) CIA relaltonship: None.. NAGELL WAS ONE DI

is crew roombers in a B-25 walch crashed at fall power

on 23 November 1954 near Extendship Alsport He was

the sole marolvor, The plane was not found for 11 112

hoare. Ho was anconsclous and had suffored savare head

lajarles. On 16 Novamber 1962 NACELL WIOt the FBI

Is New York to say that he wanted to expose the Departinent

aí Alcoholle Baverage Control ol Callioraia. On

15 Docember 1952 ho adviase the FBI in Jacksonvillo.

---

## Page 22

13-00000

Florida, thas ho had veen roccated by tis Soviets in

washington, D. C., and had contacted Cha la ViIginia

on Soroi orders. In Jansazy 1763 le mas diaguosed

al the VA hoapital In Bay Pines, Florida, as baviag

"chronle brain aysdrone associated with oraia rua

wies cenarioral soachon ebaracteriaed by passive.

#saresadre, and paranoid icaturea." Ca 20 Septembar 1363

bo win arrosied lor flolng eno roundo iato the colling od

= ¿ank in El Faso, Tozas. la than attorped micide.

On l6 April 1964 NAGELI Dent t0 te FB1 a lettor la

which ho jaloly claimed that he had sant thei aa earllez

letter, intod Saptamber 1963 and algued "Jaci Krames'.

to sara thera about tho aasassination.

Donald P. NORTON.

(1) Irlor references: Memoranda No. 6,

7. Sapto:aber 1967, 29. 1 aed 21 Memorandurs No. 1,

13 Jeremier 1407, 3. 3; Menorandin, subject: Donald

P. (0r T.) NORION, 14 Auguat 1917.

(2) layolvenen lo Garrloon'a Investigation: In

Vancouver, Canada, la an Interriow published on & hagust

1987, NORTON claimed to be an ex-ClA esplayee who

delivered $150,000 to FERRIE los transíor to Cuba aad

who jicaed ay from SMAx 550, 900 8o De delivered to

Corald in Montesrey, Mexico, On 15 July 1967 Charles

WARD Di Carriaon'o stall accompanied NORTON to

New Crleans for e tapodisterriew, Ramparis of Jaasary 1968

claimed chai NORTON wan Impressed Into CIÃ's service in

1957 cades threat al essesure as a homosezual. Accoraley

tO this aIdIla, NORTON was toid by ClA to take a long.

astet vacatio becasas oi someising thas was happerlas

in New Orleans.

(3)

CLA relationship: Nona. NORTON serred ad

e privale and PPC in tho U.S. Al- Force from li October

1949 8o 2$ Jasonry 1951, When he sas dischargod fot

ja72h1A+IIC I20092.

k. Gordon Diane NOVEL.

(*)

Prior references: Memorandum No. 1.

26 April 1767, Enclonuto 11; Memoranden No. 2,

2z

---

## Page 23

13-00000

ô May 1967, Esclonare 101 Memoraadao, No. 5.

20 June 1907, 20. E10; Meniorandura No. E,

7 September 1901, ap. 1-31 Manorandar No. 1.

13 Septecade: 1907, p. 3.

AITO +37070864,

sabject: Gardon Duane Norel, 31 May 1957.

(i) lovolvemons la Gariaon's Inrestigations

Both NOVEL and ons ol his lawyero have clabad stat

he warked for CIA. Garrison bar sougie, unti fally

TICEALLY, tO ERRIAGe NOVEL Iron ColunDas, Ohio.

bet withot succesd. oatriose has chitined, aad

NOVEL baa surred, tai NOVEl, at los lastigation oi

OLA, look part wit others la stealing axp paives ITo

letter which Imalles diet be 5al lavolved La CLA's

operation Double-Chor. Ramparis i Jamary 196%

repeat the principal lies abral NOVEL'S CIA des.

(3) CLA rolationando: Noo.

1. Leo Harvey OSWALD..

11} Prior rolerences: Monorasdom No. 3,

d June 1957, 3. 1: Manorandara No. T, 13 Sopteraier

1907, 3. 5.

(21 Iovolvemen lo Garrison's lavestigation:

Garrison has rapeatedly charged ton OSWALD was a

"satay" who did ast kill anyone and that OSWALD sorted

ÉUT CLA. MANItE d JANIY 90S DAYS thAL GLA

trained OSWALS al the Alazi Naval Station is Jazar,

phere he vie taagot cover operadion and Lussias.

Il also illegea that CIA arraagad OSWALD's delection

do the Soviet Dalon.

1л. Jach A031.

(1)

Prior refosences: Memorandum No. 3,

i Jene 1957, p. Bi Memoranda No. 7, 13 Septe:aber

1967. .2.

23

---

## Page 24

13-00000

(4)

Involveracet la Carrison'" Savestigallor:

Garriaon bas repratadiy dilad that RUBY, lie CSWALD,

can an doyed oy ClA. Ho stalad tha: Ch aard 3027

as = "bag nan" to seade 200d ia Cases eila grazo.

(3) CIA relationship: Nose.

M. Edward Stomar SUGGS, & JackS. MARTIN

(1) rios relorences Memoradam No. t

20 June 1967, pp. b, 10, ad 11.

(2) Inrolvemuns in Carrion's larestlinion:

MARTIH, formerly ernployed by Guy Banister, now

tonna himsell ao lovestigaler for Garrioon.

A DOS

Naw Oriana moor 01 11 Saple ber 1747 stated tal

MARTIN trianoned a friend el MI, Loyd Bay as 0200

aours, on or shortly voloro that date, sald that bo sas

vns dl Carlaon'o lavestigators, and trted to puray 83

Enlonal about Me, Ray, (Othir roporla havo stasce shal

MARTIN sends la wals nich callo lo tae anald hoars

According to Razanarts of January lyra,

MAATIN alleges that Ferrie once commanded a Civil

Ale Pates squadron si whian Conald was a member.

Parter, Fourle allegadly taught Orwald to shoot a sille

with a selescozie sighi, Feurle becam tavelved alta

Oswald in the antonsination ital.

(3) ClA relationship: Nos. MARTIN, however.

MAs claimed thaS io WORKAd (OI CIA. As FUI 19701 dated

Cat Eúmard Stewart SUGGS isse lingerprinted in 1952 in

Houston, Tarns, He was wanted at that dos co a charge

Dinarder... Too lienileation Dirision recorde do

and slow the diaporities di the charga. " Ca 23 Decembor

1956 he was adraldod to tu psychiairle sard, Charity

Hospital, Now Orleans, Louisiaza, as 2 asatal padeal.

---

## Page 25

13-00000

Originaladay:DôiCA/R&A:D.E. PRATTids*

11 J0RaAZY 1937

Distribution:

Orig - DCI

1- DDP

1 - Exncutiva-Casaptrollos

( - Gosaral Cosasel

1 - A/DCE

i - Diflca of Secarlty

1 - Dirsetas, Doreaile Coatset Service

1 • CIWH/CSO

1 - CICI

1 • RA CATa0

4 -D711l

---

## Page 26

13-00000

cocopatrad his can signature dad chas di Araur o.

Lint the HaME ClUN BEATBAND vaS ponied out to lir

in tie list and that Ciay SHaw's sane man 50i sio tie

RiCOd and mia colleague bald tar a hando milay

Had been titan by SHAW. I do notsd sat the DOS

SHA% wat is tse VIS roos da too occasion about wales

1367 2920I 44001 MORAN a SAying in: io dd 20t 10

Saul la the room at that tiine.

(5)

DDP ANd DCS roladons do*:

that no was cleared 20 15 DeCaDes 1002 f0I 1

oj illasil Siallon. He wad asproached 1 17

December 1967 by lira. CarmelT. Dollar, acting

on is nalf oi tao Stados and caroun loo good sincor.

oi DES Sew Orleana, Aginning to belo Sho Stadlos

in cover matters, do bacaro prosidont oil

THORAN "also permits ton of tis 047

24

m00.10038:

Miard Slarton cable cals.

21 Noraber 1957, does 80i Identi siORAN's ina

coriny, bal DES Nay Orleans ost reporiod diat

he was the dires presides of Kalra, Corporatios,

as a spoilar ior dus iniami Stallon and tas

being uend by the station.

"Ha bas also cade

24

Jai curtain

o cradonal vandela of te Station. da ló vr io

cean shed D? HeaderiEs los seTeral activitas

directedly the folilee cá Loglalica.

De Balami 3+ad23

SIBOANS) MORAN has set Ma. Ray E. Miled sod

ME. CHION C. C. TrOS- (DINarY DDS/OUIce

oi loristies) as sell as Mrs. Dollar. In addition to

24

0f

---

