# 104-10180-10219

## Page 1

104-10180-10219

"885

PART 1

COMPENSATION AND WITHMOLDING DATA

•SOURCES 0S

COXPTASATION PAYSINES (ChieS

HIRDQUANTERE

CONCA FACILITO

ĐLA

COSPEAGATION PASTATS RY COVIO FACILITY

•FAPIAIN

LAJED "GE-

PATRIATS TO BEGIN (DASE)

VARa

TIPE

HE PAT AL

BUTA TOSAL

REFRESENTED

15 July.1961

PAY PERIODS USED PY COVER FACILITY

BEIKLY

-NA.

TANES

BY COVER FACILITY FROM COUPENSAT

PAID

INCOME

ASOUNT

PERIOO

5088185

SECURITE EFICAS NITHMELO.

HAME OF COUNTRY

COMPENSATION SUBJECT TO A FOREIGN TAX

WILL NOT-REPORT

TOVER FAEILITY MILE REPORT CONPEMSATIOM AS FOLLONS SO PONE LODE

118816 88109)

COVER FACILITY SEEYROS NOS DIOSTE

COVERT (El covere only.

THE AGENCY MILL REPORT .COMPENSATION AS FOLLONS (S08 /12a 16 80100)

*at of dada dton."

DECLARATION OF ESTIMATED INCOME TAX (CheCA OnO)

NAS "ACEN FILED

MAS. NOT DEEN FILED

II MOT APPLICABLE

PART 11 1

DEPENDENCY DATA

FACILITY.

OF DEPENDENTS, INCLUDING BELF, CLABMED "ITH COVER 13.

INCLUDING

CLAIMED ON

MARITAL STATUS (Completo no appropriaso)

MANRIED

DATE' OF DEATA

WIDOwED

DATE OF DECREE

(16 June: 1948

G''SENSHIP OF SPOU3E

14.

DEPENDENTS

IN NUMBER OF

DEPENDENTS 'DECLARED

DOTELATIONSHIP (NO ROO)

Đon

daupator

6ON

DIVORCED

LEGALLY SEPARATED

ANNULLED

RESIDENCE DE SPOUSE (COUDERY)

S.

FilinG

RETURNS #HO MAY OR MAY NOT

BE INCLUDED

BIRTA

RESIDENCE

09

1. 3=

*. 5.

1. 5.

To So

t. 5

La 5a

15. REMARN$

APPROVAL OF CENTRAL COVER DIVISION

17.

FORM PACPAREO BY

BNOOVIOUAE

The employer's names and methods for

PART I CERTIFIED CORRECT

DATE

SIGGATURE OF OFFICIAL

reporting compensation shown.in Items 8,

and/or 9, above are approved.

DATE

d2 diptes

SIGNATURE AND TATRE

PART

CERTIFIED CORRECT (Explain shen/noe alaned)

DATE

SIGNATURE OF INDIVIOUAL (PIENSONyR)

DISTRIBUTION:

SIGNED ORIG. AND COPY -"TO FINANCE: COPY - TO CANTRAL COVER: COPY - TO FILE

FORM

8-80 3138 08801898 09

SECRET

a...

130)

SECRET

PART 111

18.310

3883

NOTE :

DETACH THIS PORTION OF FORM AND OISTRIBUTE SFPARATELY

I. SOCIAL SECUAITY NO.

SECURITO NO, IS MOT AVALABLE,

"APPLICATICA FOO

PROMICES

SOCIAL

SECURITY

ACCOL TS.

19 DETAILED

PROCECURES.

20. CATIZENSHIA.

G. S.

21. AÓ09ESS DE RICORO (lA U.S.I

18.

ADORESS (FOREGAR)

RA

DISTRINITION.

SIGED ORIG

AND COPY • TO MISASTE: COPY • TO CENTRAL CUNER: COPY • TO FILE

0%5 313a

PARAGATE 90896948 89178999.

SECRET

1301

0112)

---

