# 104-10169-10060

## Page 1

104-10169-10060

DISPATCH

Tasrasies

FOR POG ACTION

SECRET

IMAPALD CON MOENING

шF0.

ChIO Of StAtIOD, JAVE

10U MOENIE DEQUIRLE

FROM

Chief, &HI

SUBJECT

D

TYPIC/OPERATIONAL.

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERCNCES

Headquartera trices

MICROFLMEO

ACTION REGUIRED: FYI

REFERENCE:

DOC. MICRO. ISE.

UNGA -24799

Had son

Hendquarters traces on tr. Subjects of reference and the

Institute follow:

3 July 1906.

Alberto LLERAS Camargo (201-102576) was born in Bogota,

Journalist.

He left school at the age of seventeen to become a

He traveled to Argentina and lived in Buenos Aires for

three years (1926-29) writing for usrlous Argentina periodicals.

His political career began upon his return to Colombia in 1929,

when he vas appointed secretary of the Liberal Party (1930-33) and

received tremendous impetus under the aegis of Alfonso LOPEZ,

Liberal Party leader and former. Predident of Colombia (1934-38 and

1942-45).

Representatives (1931-34).

Subsequently, LIRAS served in the National House of

Rhen alfonso LOPEZ was inaugurated Fred

Ident in 1934, he took WERAS into hi? government as Secretary

General of the Presidency (1934-35), and later made hin Minister of

Government from 1943 to 1945.

The latter ye.r he

was made Minister

of foreign Affairs, ug well is First Vice President of Colombia.

Ile public service

culminated then in his accession to the Presl-

dency on the resignation of President LOPEZ in 1945,

After dig-

charging the duties of Chief Executive for a year (1945-46), bLERAS

wan elected Secretary General of the Pan American Union in 1947, a

post which he held until 1954.: He then resigned and returned to

Colombia to accept the position of Rector (President) of tha

Univermity of The Andes (1955-56).

Devoting himself once ngain to

politics, LLERAS began writing a column in the Liberal Daily El

Espectador.

In his columns he strongly criticized the Rojas regime

1953-3 and called for the return of constitutional government in

Colombia.

In March 1956,

he was elected President of the Liberal

Perty and shortly thereafter (June 1956) travelled to Spain and had

conversations with Inureano COMT?, a lender of the Conservative

Party aud former Presidont of Cciombia (1950-53).

These two polit

fenl lenders signed a manifesto condemning the Bojas regime and

CS COPY

3-201-1025766

201-102576

(CONTIN

U

IE D)

ОБРАТОН SYMEOL

NUMBER

UFOW-6130

Prent

SECRET

DATE

0& 5 AUG 12

201-308730

HN/C/RR/08

1 = 2049408738

WIl/C/ESEC

OFFICE

WH/C/RR/OS

22 Aux 88

pik;

2021

DATE

WH/C/RR

29/8

WH/C/MO

WH/C/CA/P

Me ST

07

R. Ortman (phone)

03

drast)

OFFICE SYMBOL

C/WH/C

DA 1E

2-3

4a0e

090168:8

03

4/BR

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

WIS AGITION.

---

## Page 2

4-00000

CLAGGIN-CATIDA

• TRATCH BINSOLEND AUNDR

LENNTINUATICN OF

DISPATCH

SECRET

VYG -6130

calling'for :te establishuent rf a coalition government in Colombin

(brough b1-partisan efforte.

Iron Noverber 1956 to Februnry 1957

LLKRAS served as « Unitod Nations Observer to investigate the Hungarla

situation.

LLERAS in described an a champion of the Pan American caune

and as being very friendly to the United States and a firm belleror

1n the Western type denocracy.

Although he did not complete bis education and has no forml

decree, he has long been addressed as "doctor" as a matter of courtesy

He does, however,

have honorary degrees from several Colombion univer

sities as vell as from the University of California.

He speake

English and French, 1e married to the former Berta PUGA (daughter of a

Into Presidest of Bhile) and has four children.

Oa 24 February 1958

LLERAS vaS Glect al President of

Colombia.

There are no Headquarters or LINGO traces on the Eudmon

lastitute per so, however, LNIRGO files contain derogatory information

on several membera of the institute which LNERGO will furnish OrACT

11 we spocily which of the members are of interest.

If JWAVE winheil

this done, plense advine on which of the members information in re

C.

There are no identifiable tracen on the other subjecte

of paragraph 5 of reference.

Headquarters defers to SlAVI regarding AMRAZZ/l'" future

unsocintion with the institute.

HOWARD &. COLLARY

Distribution:

• 2 - COS, JAVE

B5 AUGGE

25 Ping, 185.60

2013087360

TONGINe.

ZIBR

1401

60€

WeB

PREVIOUE COITION.

---

