104-10069-10042

a cree im
CUaSICAT ECR

BRCRET

oLBBDTOP /ABREGATTA®2
ofitact With Omer of Restaurant Froquentad by Sovieta

2% 1, Under soparate cover ao Attachment B is a report written by
(sgazcatta/2 concerning a dinnor with Identity A who Hao aleo been a contact
of PAINBERG, Idontity A ie of interest because of his Soviet contacts.

Ba has alwayo however been discreet and seldom talka about these Soviets.
Boing a French citizen, hic caution fo understandable and he gould very
‘woll bo obleged to report thia typa of information to(UNBoUND) (eRgcaTtA/2
will continue the development for alicitation purposed only. 9) Ya

2, Identity B 1a KRREGATTA/2's doctor, Station traces include
people with tha seme nama as Identity B but do not relate to Identity B.

3. Please advise if any Headquarters traces Med.

feovgA R. SIDMAN

Attachmont: USC Y RE/AM
A = Identities $/C ATT'D
: B= Report Se eb de Ga

Diotrsbution:
/SB w/atto USC
} = C/EUR wo/atte

jong

belied? o54

Q MEPRODUGTE

APERTURE GAT

LEC 3
2 December 1968
WE PLE CRSER

74- b> 7Q5Y



14-00000

fi ble RCRA ITN ORME Cir TDY TEED SIRO “ence em cee DEAS CTD OES ACRE TD CEI acon EERE - beaten Gaee

‘| a : vr) . . o: c #
_ S.,Peris,Oot.30,68. : :

a : {spas ue nasn unre oarenevecodiessndcOnecei ie & Pepin /
Dinner/in our appartment/, yith i v_Adolfovich Aronson, his
wife Olga,pDr. Claude TaorPand ts wite Gilberte on ocsday

H

* Oct. 29-th. |
i

e

7

Arongon is one of those who in Paris sees the most soviet
visitors of all kind.Phrough the Dr.Iasry I met last year
® group of soviet physicians.

We know the aronaon?for years,but it is the first time that
he got really talkative.He related quite a. number of things
about his encounters with soviet citizens who come to “rance
and s0 we learned that he invites them regulerely to his re-
staurant/"Dominic",19,rue Bréa,Paris 6/ - sometimes as many
ag 15 to 20 persone.Moreover soviet citizens of al] kind :
artists, painters,actors and directors of theatre, but also
journelists - for instance from "Pravda" and “Izvestia",come
to see him privately in his house.

Last night however he talked mainly about various visits he ~
had in the past.He did'nt mension once somebody who is pre-
sently or was recently in Paris.When I asked him if he had
not seen bham now,these last days,he said :"no,nobody” and
he added that the last time,since the Tchecoslovaquia events
the soviet visitors became far leas numerous.This might be
true,but I had impression thet# it was on purpose that Aron-
gon did not want to tell about recent visits he had. received.
He is a very cautious man and as he met yesterday. for the
j-st time the Dr.lasry and his wife he perhaps did not want
to tell too much about this. :

We established recently very friendly reletione with the
Aronson and yesterday's gathering certainly contributed to
tighten our link with them.It remains to be seen if in the
futur ho will reveal more about his encounters with the so-
viet visitors nd if he will be willing to help us moeting
with then.

Whet can be established ulresdy is that he certainly ia well
connected with a number of thom and that his restaurant is
« place where they cone frequontly.Wnat is his purpose of
meeting then ? I and Z. are-not inclined to think thet ho
works for them : he ig a rich man end does'nt neod it.Also :
he certainly has not the mentality of a communist sympathiser.
Hore likely he sees them because he loves art and literature fF
set be fain i he ia @ passioned collectioner of rus-
égan antike and object of art and that these soviet visitors
bring him now and then - as a gift for his dinners,or just
for sale - some of the objects they succeed to smugle out of
USSR. .

EY seo Appendix _fA_about his personal charecteristics.

| a 3 i
Yoeea worry errr Set |. ye ash
Stiinta enamel A. Ae reagent Man At aa in Me a Saal .
a

s

o7 ase

om + varemeunes ot gremraanneemcscaane sages eorecvionsrmeurcedins °°



a :
Bo a cocina aR Pe ren macs NERUDA EH FEE eh NN UT Cem nen

: 7 fe x 7 Lovig) fg 8 ¢ :

iu
A Faanel pes 6. 08 ae
* abe fron
Personality : 8 born in st.petersbourg,ago 63 -
7A jad meade his studies still in

Russia - partly/,dut also and chiefly @ woll-
know Paris's restaurant owner/rest.DOMINIC/
marred to 01g8.........e+¢+,8180 rugoian— ~
jewioh and having & grown up adopted son/the
son of his wife with a previous marriage.

nae POMINIC is the only russian restaurant in Pa-

ae ris which did'nt change hands for 40 years.

i /aoon thergwill bo celebration with lots of
french personalities of this anniversary/. -

He is gi99_8 woll-known art, oritic whe writes
¢ 78,206, 2nong a

2: in various pe:

ie
oo

Fe remeron maaan) Le Os:

>-He oertdinly is also 2 Paris's personality i
naa. pan among the high officials

¥

n
. Character 88 SUL vUrEd, willful,enorgetic, shrewd,

: ‘
Intelligence : ho certainly ig not stupid,but his intel-
7 ligenee is of purely practical,materiglistic
kind. 7

Weakness t ag he is @ passionate art-collector he would [|
Bo to considerable lenghts to get some "trea- FF
gure", ‘

5

His connections : he has some family in USSR and goes now
and then to USSR/but not lately/.

NE.- his wife 4s a nice woman but of little Rs reonality,
3 who is not of very good health,also ove peined by him.


Bornonotity : an an_Jow but a french citizen, tho
pr.Lasry is one of the most capable Paris's
physicians /general medecine/,a4ge : 50 or 50,
Now he dg the ef doctor of"Prano
20cm di LI he g
medical centers, a
Gharacter t es E SE ,obliging,helpful as
much ap one oan Be,learned and thorough in
his medical field,reliable, talkative and
slightly naive.

od, but not partiouladty bright except in

Intelligence + go
his profeseion / Raa -fo0d nena
een Wrtebs SOusvsisevs 0 PA'S
wy fe Ansey, G/L Beare

ag politically he ig rather of tho left/for-
merly had sympathies for the communists,bdut
sinoe the IZrecli-war changed completely/
he likes and meets,as often es possible
soviet visitors to Paris.

Pan

\

His connections:

NB.- his wife,also jewish has little personality.

