rod 10173-10039

SVTEWED APTET\ HEADQUARTERS azo

NATEREAL 0
rs
HOUSE SELECE COTPIPPTEE 04 ASSASSIBATLONS

STATE ALF:

1 {SUMTER / VOLE: LABS, He Hee LD -
CU TAU 3 Dov “doe 59. F205 zZ Fi ae
slo ya, Knee [209

FILE ¥11

INCLUSIVE DATE:
SGUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:

> ROOM:
DELETIONS, UF ANY: ‘DFB.-¢ 2: LO
DEB LSE)

arent
RE VEEWU NG OFFICIAL.

REVISED BY,
(PRINT NAME)

BETSY ude

RUCUMENTS MAY



FBI REPORT
DATE: 18 OCT 49

SUBJ: PHAM DUY AM, was. ANDRE PHAM DUY
AM, ANDRE REN PHAM, MONSIEUR. ANDRE:
(REGISTRATION. ACT)”

CLASSIFICATION: NONE GIVEN

FBI FILE #: 97-1184 (NEV. YORK)

ISAACS, HAROLD R,



FBI REPORT : : *
DATE: 24. MAY 1951 : =
CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL ; ie oe
SUBJECT: - EUGENE BRINSON (INTERNAL sscuntty = R) ar)

FBI'FILE #: 100-376040 (NEW YORK)

i


FBI REPORT
DATE: 27 MAY 1949
CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL

SUBJECT:

AGNES SMEDLEY (INTERNAL SEC,-R);,

FBI FILE #: 100-68282 (NEW YORK) i

£
ISACCS, HAROLD



: Enclosed herewith are transletions trom the offieta: cocina
: files ofa Ust of pean connected with the work of the) _

"International tn chin. Those files are in’possession of ‘irin,

R. Ay MacMillan

Frox: A.D. Hoseriy : : :
: Bete 7 2 .

and he 1s conbing’ through thei extracting this type of infornation

which ‘wit be forwarded to you as it is-obta:



7.) BARTON,Wilbur, U.S. citizen, born 1901.Arrived in Skanghat from
z the States in spring 192€:Ke became a coworker of
\ the Kewspaper “Abend Neuigkeiten®.In 1927 he went

“9,) BUTSCHNARY - U.S. citizen,Jew,born in 1910.Arrived in Tokio
: fasamr. from San Francisco June 8th 1933.August 21.1933 he ©
poe ee

BARTELS, WOLDEMAR German subdject,born in Latvia.Came to Tientsin in <
————— mares

to Peking as representative of the periodical*Chi-
nese Courier".The owner of this periodical was iad a
that time FRANCIS. ests: He was arrested by Karsha
Tachan Tso S¥a for plo ‘Ving against the government
dn Peking,and. sent for trial to Tientsin.Sudidenly in
April 1927his case was .adjourned.Barton returned to
a Shanghai and was wade representative, of "National |
. A: - News Agencg™.This: position he held until August- 23rd
1927,when he returned to Anerica.There is evidence
that he was an agent of the IlIrd International, and
that he had during 1927 close contact with the Sov-
jet Consulate in Tientsin. ee
"Abend Neuigkeiten"= Evening News«

with the Newspaper."China Press*.May 5th 1933 he
went to Canton. ‘anton he was until his departure

“:° for America, corresponding with 8. RO Y-ER

was deportet from Jupan by the Japanese police,as
undesirable alien and came to Shanghai. The Japanese
police found: several letters .in his posession,in To-
kio, showing that he was a wember of the coonunist
party and had come tothe Far East in connection wit’
the planned "Anti War Congress”,whidh was supposed

to take place in Shanghai,in September 1933.

It has been furthermore established that during his
stay in Japan,he was in contact with several well.
known Japanese and ‘foreign Radicals.He furthermore
was in close contact with the Sovjet Consulate in

Tokio.His present where about are unknown. « .

1931and was in close contact with the Sovjet Con-
sulate there.In 1933 he moved to Shanghai,where he
was a great friend of the Director of "TASS" W. Q0v_
ROYER.He was also a great friend of. M.A. ROW,who
was. in leading position,connected with the Sovjet
information officesAt the same timé Bartels was wor-
king for a member of the Chines Customs. by. name of.
7“DeFe JORaS ‘F,who himsé1f was ‘a sovjet. agent.He als

ed for the So} J é DEP IN. ,
He also was the editor of. the anti-japanese magazine |
“Far East Magazine*.In'1940 Barteis went to Tokio.
RGcording” to ‘present reliable reporte,he 1s working
there for the Komintern. “q i

.End of. 1931 Sarton came back to Sh‘ai and got a job |-


. C :

Agent for lIIrd international-He pecare first no-.

.) BENGER, Farr: ecare fir
cae BEMCreaenw? = torioug due to his contact with * fv EESENIN (Bu
Qs gen wOUssys-agent “for the saze organisation. solscl
~» Bias

harshai on Oct.9th. 1934 for Trieste.Re had

come to SEangheiin 1932,together with Mrs. Berger:
Berger was in 1936. approximately 45 = 50 Tone ot °
-According to a Reuter cable,which was published in

Shanghai ‘én January 8th 1935,Harry Berser was the
jeader orthe comnunist movenent in South America.
-. On January: 6th 1935;Berger was arrested by the poli
ce in Rio de Janeiro,for his communist activities.

Re as well as his wife AWE R GE R admitted
zo comunist activitics,and were tuereypun both depor-
er is also known to have direc-

il. Ber,
ted Fee eoe time fhe comunist work in India and

“2 algo in Chinas.:  - cae

7 : ote is national for the Far East.He played a very important
NERKEN TSEV role in the so called "movement of the Pacific® in
eee Hankow in 1927.He was at that tine secretary of
B DIN ugust 8th 1927,Nerenzeff cane. from

: lankow “to Shai and handed over the business of -

iiercts the"commercial association of the Pacific" to the
: Cech citizen: BAUANT. Both were: s00a linguists, and
ate in order to cover up their activities, they were ate
cel? tached to the newspaper"New Shanghai life*.Beeing ©
* an official agent of the Komintern,he was forced to
et ft mah aaa the Sovjet consulate had to clos

mn 1927. 7

commerce.Mexbder of the australian labor party.¥as
a member of the "commercial conference® in Wladi-
7 : vostok an Aug.15th 1929.Wosch visited Shanghai to-

gether with F. ROELS and PG. HANNET.

| | 13.) WEITEUETER, ,Rana, Tda,,- Geraan citizen, Jevess, born 1907.Kember of -

ety of friends of the U.S.S.R.as well as the

hutz committe Nullans*.She came to Shanghai in

October 1930 and opened a. branch of the "Zeitgeist...

- bookstore” where communtst literature was ‘sold.This
store was allegedly closed in 1933,due to financial
difficulties.(January 1933).After that she got a:

_ private. job.During her residence in Berlin,she had

married. one Cee hua who was studying in Berlin;
and who was a nem of the IlIrd international,

12.) WOLSCH John Fred British subject, born 1893.Profession:Organiser of
NAS

~
according to gerian police records.In the years of
1926/27 she-was a student at the Yoscow so called
Sun Yat Sen University,where she ‘studied:"The prin-

m4 ‘cipals of the revolutionary movement in Asia”

; 7

Cm | q

r


+ 95.) GlASS,Cectl™

We

16.) DIAMANT,M.
eae emma tertanine

We

17s) DOLSEN;G.Ne

oe

18.) DRISEN, Igidor
pa

tec Seo”

pe bite

: wrlecee GH-
16.) BIQSCH #itkelm
a a3

Frank. britt
wren. party and agent of the IlIrd. International.Profes-

_ Guages ~

aerate f? reenter
Gerzan cifizen,dorn 1897,dentist.member of commu~
nist party.He arrived in Shanghai from Karseilles
on October 12th 1934.in Becerber 1934 he opened in
Shanghai the "First dental clinic*together with Dre
gw. Dubowsky on Av. Joffre.In the end of 1935 he how-
ever liquidated his con:ections #ith his olinio.fe
left Shangkai in January 1936.¥losch waz the leader

P.D.(Gerran cocnunist party) in Germany,
° 1933 .Hi8 ah ie Erna osch also .
eg Ee A einige ‘sue
aban ites “4d \

ubjeet, born 1901,member of the com:untat

sion:yournalist.Glass came in May 1931 from Durban,
South Africa to Shanghai.In June 1931 he took to-
gether with Harold [5¢#S0u, american comunist and

editor in Sh mai of the "China Forum",a trip up
the Yangtse River.In September he became a menber
of the “Committe for the protection of NULANS*. -- |
In November 1931 he became Shanghai representative
of. the."Anglo Asiatic Telegraph Agency" -"ANGASTAS
whose headquarters are in far! ‘ine pais :

A,
also known as DIARANTI.According to reports,he is
a Cech Anarchist.He took over the business of the
“Commercial association of the Facific". from S.Ne

verenzeffin 1927 when the latter left Hankow for

Shanghai,in August 1927.Diamant is married to the
daughter of SALOMON BURACK,who was a sovjet agent
in 1929.Burack has been working in Shanghai for va- -

rious local firms. -

also known as N.von poissicne came to Shanghai from
Peking in 1926.Ile came via Siberia to Peking. He ua
was in Shanghai in close contact with the Nulans -

clan and disappeared from Shanghai after the Nulans

arrest. . - we NS are oe
some of hiaQuitases 1n/Shanghal are:4.J,,,STUART.
Eduard, LER, ‘Gs¥e LS and Jazes!¥ ‘S.He was
‘Trving-in Shanghat in June 193 as a Ae ‘for. the
*par Eastern Association*,as also for the Far. Ea
tern buro. of the Komintern.He as well as one Mar-

lived at that time as:Mr«&Mrso

iti :
WET = ri,They were the editors of. the ‘Pan Paci-

Beeler et that time the official publication
of the *Far Eastern Association® in the english lan



19.) DOEKITZ (nokI2z) |”: Procinent agent of the IlIrd International.
“Oswald Came to Shan.hait from Germany via Siberia on
= eee AR -August 2nd. 1931.Posed as a zerchant. Left

Shanghai on Decerber 26th.1931 and returned via
Dairen to Berlin.

20. eae

3033 EVANGELISTA,Chrisanta  Philfippino.Prominent menber of the com- *

we ~“—* mercial association of the Pacific,an active
: cupmiiat.as in Skanchai in 1928 on his way to

koscow.During his. return trip-from-Moscow he ~~

a 7
aeecciisceee ee eg HE stayed over in Shanghai from June 7th to June.
a - 15th 1929. : : oe
21.) YORK, Rosa + british subject.It has been presumed that she
< - is a courier forthe Komintern:She arrived in .
oN * - Shanghai from Trieste on Karch 3rd. 1935.She. He

- returned from Shanghai to Triesté May 28th 1935.
ewess. . :

22.) ISAAKS, Harold Robert
SAAKS Harold Rot
aS

american citizen, Jew,born 1910.Came to Shang-
ai from Manila in December 1930,and joined the
staff of the®Shanghal Evening Post & Mercury.”
A few weeks later he changed over to the "China
Press" ,where he remained until May 1931. In
peices : “dune 1931 he took together with the Sovjet agent
Frank GLASS a. trip up the Yangtse River.After
BYs returnto Shanghai,he lived together with
Glass.In September 1931 Isaake became very frien
daly with Agnes SMEDLEY and also became. a member
of the “COmmtttée for the protection of Nulans"..
After that Isaaks became the editor of the "Chi- |
na _Forum".He furthermore worked in the *TASS* :
i . agency.He furthermore married in 1932 wellknown
Hy 7 and notorious Viola KOBINSON,who was an active 1
: member of the communtst. party in Germany. The a i
present whereabouts of Isasks is unknown. { :
23.) KENNIG,Rudolf Herrmann
H Sn ervenenet German. citizen,dorn 1908. Came to Shanghai from E
E we ~": Dairen on March 31. 1933.He posed as a merchant. i
In May.1934 he opened an office"Import & Export® :
He left Shanghai October 23rd.1934 via Dairen a
for Berlin.He is strongly suspected of beeing an .

. : agent of the Xozintern, ty Peeresthacey aPeaaaate
[one see gees tear ofa ., NAR, y, os orients ;
i 24.) ,EFRANG,Serge Norbert also own ‘as \DUPONT, aliag DUKRO.Came to -Sh'a i

We . from Peking July, . ether w. the secreka | i
i: tary pees He remained in Shanghai until Sept. ae
Ee : 1926.Re left then for Peking,where he was manage | ~ =

@. publication "Volkstribune® peoples tribu eS
July 1930 intelligence came that he was in con- --,

tact with a comrunist “agent in Marseilles,sen=, ©: |-.
ding literature and propaganda. material to India: i

andColombo.Also that’ he was very anxious to re-.) |
turn to China?(The original text of the report i
not clear who wants to return to China).After hi

arrival in Sh'ai he registered asC.E, Lefrango. |
_ Left Sh'at Feb.27th 1937 for Frases H



Tats

eSeinee ake

§-130-200 rset Ye. Be
25.) tauresy nurs Gercan citizen,he 1s however supposed to de a
NS. Kestizo or mulatto? Born 1907.Theré are reasons
Dd kde to'agsume,that he is an Anarcho-Syndicalist. He

LAT, (iene eas!
é 156-04 9 ce
Cuter

i axa Sanghad 4m fay 1939, destination unknown.
: 1g des, ) MANAHAN,Djakinto Philippino,radical agitator.Came to Shanghai on

29.) MINSTER, heon wi. U.S. citizen,Jew,born 1902.Came to Shanghai from

“30.33 “watuan, Victor Franz. Australian citizen, vorn, 1897. Medical Doctor.
Se

“es Wh “* Oswald -DOENITZ,who was in Shanghai in connection

Secuaue ieee Bow Bogtaning first half of June. 1931,Lefranf togethe:
.s s fake 4, 1-».yowith 17 Chinese was arrested# in Singapore.They
Nghe Pr were accused of communist activities. Lefrange got

18 months in jail.

came to Shanghai in thé beginning of 1938.He left

aan, October 26th 1928 from Domingo: - Ponce, and

Bosima -.Barcelona.He was a participant of the
international workers confererice in Moscow in
1928. He visited Shanghai in 1929.°

~ *<well known british communist.Came to China waren
1927.Participated.at the Pan Pacific Conference
in Canton.Left for Hankow,having failed to orgar

“nize a conference for the beginning of April in

Canton.Came to Shanghai from Hankow June 4th'1927

and left for Wladiv; stok June 5th 1927.
ves Wht

also ‘Snoftas “iss YartS, alias Katherine arrison,
U.S. citizen, Wife of” the. “Fuerst, Browder ant also

known..as George Hortla.thd sécretary. of ‘the
"Commercial Association of the Pacific Ocean".
She left Shanghai for Dairen on January 25th.
+ 1929 on her way to Sibéria. .

Cama America om Oct.17th 1934.His wife according to ré
Wwe - ports is the sister of fle OLOTOM, He opened in '
_~ Shanghal'a Radio shop.This was to cover up his

assignement to establish long wave Radio Stations
. eu - ag liaison between the various Branches of the
etre chinese communist party.Minster left for Peking
He on May 3rd Mate «He bite in contact with Jose gh
MALDEN. (ur. X.),who was arrested, Tn" a
i. S-340+ tet esi
ah on May 9EB 199925 ak WANE ATG | ree ® 8

ae

‘Came to Shanghai end of October 1927.End of 1931.
Dr..Rauman was in contact with the Komintern agent

with the reorganisation of the "Far Eastern: Ageno;

ey of the Komintern." The predecessor of Donits
+ was ega,who had been arrested:The present

whereabouts of Dr. Nauman are’ unknown,.

SesFesnstssna?ssnsece!


31.) PORS, Domingo Philipyino.Fosea as Journalist,was however

= 5 ans well known to the police as Radical and Agitator
Came to Shanghai on October 26th 1928, together
with Zgsita Saraulena and Djakinto Marahan.This
cc WR | was after Fuerst rcader, the Setretary of the

| : \ Commercial Association of the Pacific had vi-

srrias i
i
i

sited the Philippines. Browder returned fromthe
Philippines on ustober 11th.1928 to Shanghai.

32..) RODRIGUES, Frederié Camé to Shanghai in /ugust 1929,after he had

. been deported froa Japan,for alleged communist
activities. He was the Delegate from Sladivos-
tok. for the Conference. of the Association of
. the Pacific.Sodriguez left for Vladivostok.

v¥itish subject, born 1892.Has a pembar and re-
presentative of the “Australian Comercial As-
sociation". He was the british delegate for the
Conférence of the Association of the Pacific

sin atadivostox, ,on August a dial a

Sy.
Eduard SRIDGES, aliag.Donat
{aN alias BERGUAN, alias.

a a Shanghai on June 15th 1931,by the S.
, MeP. August: 12th 1931 he.wag handed over to the
WWehinese authorities.2 days later he was sent to
Nanking for trial.Found guilty he drew a sen-—
tence of many years in prison.He had come to -"
Shanghat | dn March 1930 from Europe via Siberia

a : "and Tientsin,Duting the first half of 1931,Rueg

H was the sedretary of the association of the Pacl

+ fig in Shanghai, Right at the beginning of the
Japan 4 China conflict in September. 1937 he was
liberated by” the Chungking government .The last
time Rueg visited Shanghai in November 1939.His
present where abouts is unknown. Ronee een ih at

it E 7 e sqmé reports he Was in 1940 in aaa in
ane 4 ‘ agat in the ybtlippines. we :
By . : ca MRO
35.) Rueg,As Mra, | sini, as Harcel
Saar ea  getdativginas’ A: ee Sophia HERBET, alias, 2@&
WR yalfas sone -She lived in Shanghai in

w Vane 193t-us "wire oF the secretary of the. com-
meréial association of the Pacific,and was like-.
wise engaged in'work for this organisation.She
fey ome to Shanghat from Belgium via Siberia

july.1930. June 15th 1931 she was together
a hey husband arrested by S.M.Ps for commu-
nist activitysShe was handed over to chinese
_puthors ies for trial.

36.) RODKAMPF, Dschuda “alias _fosendhlU was connected with A. Rueg.Jew.
A ernninrrmmennnccne «-“Ameri¢an citizen, born in New York 1895.Came be-
wh. dinning of -1930 from America,via Siberia to Sh*

&
al.After the arrest of Rueg he also left Sh'al
on June 18th 1931, for Berlin.



37.) ROBINSON,Vio1a

38.) SMEDLEY, Agnes
.2re
a ee

40.) ‘STONE, Imoy

ak.

ah.

39.) SORDSCH,Richara Dr.

ce ) UNDSCHUS »Margarita

American,dorn 1910.Caze to Shanghai August
26th 1932.8a8 well krown as ‘com: unist and
fellow traveler(American Suffragist).Was in
Shanghai closely conrected with Sovjet circles,
and was @ render of the “#OKS® Organisations

alias Béerd,alias FETROKOIS, American, born 1892.
Rember of the following organisations:

Friends of the U.S.S.R. Protection comnitte for
NULANS, Hindustan Association,All Chinese labor
Federation, China league for Civil rights.

Came to Shanghai from Berlin,as corresponient
for the “Frankfurter Zeitung",in May 1929.

Works for the Western Livision of the IlIrd.Int-|
ernational.Supplied in Shanghai the money for ~
the Tocdl-indian coccunists,which fact was de-
finitly prooven by the S.M.P.Her main job was ‘to|
supervise the local comoun: labor Organisation:
She herself got her orders directly from Kom- i
intern headquarters in Koscow.From 1927 to 1929,|
the time she came to Shanghai,she was working at)
various places in China,connected with the. ehi- |
nese red Aray.She wrote .a bock about her: works ©
The Red Army ino China.?his book ass written in ©
.english,in 1935 it was published in Moscow in”
russian translation.At present Agnes Smedley.is |
in America.From Shanghai she traveled to. Moscow,,
where she resided for scyeral years with her
friend,a lady,who 1s the editor of the Moscow
News,in english.

German citizen,born 1897,Journalist,came to
Shanghai from Marseilles. January 10th 1930, toge-
ther with another German by the name of WEINGER-
TAM.He has been reported as. beeing also a member
of the commercial association of the Pacific.
During December 1931,Sordsch was in contact
with Oswald DOENIT2,#ho at.that time also lived __
in Shanghai and-who is a well known and prominent.
agent of the Komintern.Beginning of January 1933_
Dr Sordsch left Shanghai and went to North China. ‘

“Pmerican,was living in Shanghat,In conrection

with communist activities: she visited Germany

during 1931 and returned then again to Shanghai.

Septenber 14th 1932 she-married in Shanghai one-.
OBERT ISAAK, editor of the corzuntst:

ee Reehiaa Fortm™.Later on she was teaching fi

at the "DAH CHUNG? highschool in Shanghai.

alias Mrs. Stuart, alias Mys.Majo.She arri-
ved in Shanghai during the first half of 1931
and called herself Mrs. ‘Stuart.Under this name
she lived together with one Isidor DRISEN,who
called himself Hr. Stuart.He was an agent of the
Komintern as well as a member of the association

was HIS seGretSiy,andnetpca Bie to°eSbe TERS °°



wth
43.) -HASKEL,WeAe

452): HSRMON, Alexander Victor British subdject,agent of the Komintern.He

ve de

42.) RARDI, George

Urs.

g. : Ee lull
46.)"HORARD,Harry Pakstoie alias IWAK KOSIORF, alias Frank cODvIN.U.5.

hn

402 #o7stiy thea he was deported from Japan in July 1922 and

mercial ass. of the Pacific.(S5rowder was). Browder

_ cagent. of the Komiatern.Froti 1917 to 1922 he lived ES:

Yocal comsuntst Journal*Pan Facific forker®.Natsga-
rita Undschus left Shanghai on July 4th 1931 for.
Genova via Suez,after the arrest of A. RUEG.She

was acoording to reports destined for Berlin. .

. 20/07
alfas George HEL (HOEL).Frowinent british coumunist.[-

Member.of.the association of the Pacific.According
-to records he attended in Shanghai the Pan Pacific
Conference,which: was’ held in chinese territory.
During the time of February 1828 and Kay 3rd. 1928
he travelled together with other association members
(with the exception of Fuerst Browder) to Moscow.
The purpose of this trip was to report to the* ISPOL-|
KOM" of the Idird-International. i

Awerican.This man moved into the flat vacated by
Fuerst Browder.#as August 1928 secretary of the con-

left Shanghai on Dec.1st 1928,and after his depar-
ture his former flat was visited almost daily by a
woman,;calling herself krs. Browder,also Mrs. Morris, |
also Kathrine. HARRISON.Haskel left Shanghai March:

23rd.1929 and‘ sailed for Vancouver, British Columbia.

: alias Marionne ENERSON, lived with the above per-|
son.This man was appointed in 1928 by "ISPOLKOM® of
the ILIRD International as sentor advisor to the.
Chinese .comeunist party.Mrs. Haskel also left Sh'ai
on March-23rd 1929,for Vancouver. British Columbia.

succeeded POL EUGEN WOLSCH as agent for the local
Komintern office.Hermon is an electrical engineer >;
profession,was born in London in 1900. He arrived
‘in Shanghai from Venezia on January 26th 1935.
duly 7th 1935 he left Shanghai for Marseilles.

citizen of russian descent.Born 1893.Journalist. He:
8 a.well known, communist and suspected of beeing

“Japan,where for. some time he’ worked for the office.
of the *Japan Chronicle". For his comzunist activi-

“thus came to Shanghai.During the ‘following years he
was connected with several newspapers, lost his post.
tions however,due to, his communist activities.Upon
recommendation of the well known french Anarchist
and Badical Jaques REXLWES he was accepted into the
staff of the-°Kiangwan labor college*.He left Shang.
hai in 1929 for Mukden,and became a professor of
foreign languages,at the Mukden University. In 1930
ke was a postal clerk in Tientsin.In 1932 he return
to Shanghai,and was working for Mr.Powel at the
,"China Weekly Review,a anti Jap & pro Sovjet Journa:
Allthough he was as late as 1940 still in Sh'ai his
present whereabouts are unknown.



british subject, dorn 1892,electrical engi-

Pik.
47.) HANNET, Percy George
neer.Member of the australian labor party.He

:
i
5
5
t

vite
men

Unknown

total

Ne These 48 Komintern

American: 14
British : 9
German oe 8
Philippino:4
Russian 2 2
Cech 209

Norwegian: 1

9

48

_— came to Shanghai, from Sladivcstok.Re left Shang-
hai together with Erederic-ROBLS. on August 15th
1929: for Wladivostok,where he attended ao britis!
delegate the Pan Fecific Conference. -

- 48,) EVERS;Frits “” Gertan citizen;Allthough born in Germany,he had
vw eai tay . SMdved most-of his'life in Mukden, Dairen,Tsingtuo,
oy OS -0- 539 and Shanghai.In January 1933 he went to Suchow,

where he got a job. as Radio engineer, for the

agent in connection with the IlIrd International
He received reports and messages directly from
Koscow,which' he handed over to various chinese ~
agents of the chinese comzunist party,who visi=
ted him in Suchow.His present where abouts are |
unknown. i .

L 1 i
agents represent the’ following nationalities:

vv S784. Sa pre "Yung Ming. Radio Co.He is reported to stand as

Nra.-2,6,7,8,22,28,29,36,37,38, 40,43, 44,46.

Mra 12,15,21}27330,33,42,45447) a

Rrg. 9,15, 14,49; 23,25, 39) 48... : ee
Rrs, 4,20,26,31. : om
Nres 1,11.

Rr. 16 : : ae
Nr i
Nr. 5,10,17,18; 24,32, 34, 35,81



CS" RECORD MATERIAL

. THIS DOCUMENT IS CHARGED TO. you."
. RETURN THIS DOCUMENT To RID/ARCHIVES &
. DISPOSITION SECTION, RP6GHERSS, ON-OR BEFORE
DATE INDICATED, Case
IF YOU FORWARD THIS DOCUMENT TO, ANOTHER
INDIVIDUAL PLEASE CALL EXTENSION
DO NOT REMOVE THIS FORN

FS 17 ¥0 use previous eoiricns.

ie
wordate POLE

7H a :
: A BX 3/
: ; i 4 : es oe SP: Prev CG?

Vere 2s 610 "teincee” (7) secret CJ conrienrian [J] sont! CJ unctassirieo



sa
“at Goupriennniy
i ONE 2r5=c0
Serials  107=47 wee FM BID 3165 .
: 1 aioe ce abit :
Sourcos Russi) ab Hincrity Groups Evaluntion: C-3
Front U.S. Naval attache, Nenking, Chinas ll July 1937

Subjects CHINA; Shanchad = 411-Slav ani Minority Group... nett
Organizations, SovictOrdented, ins u,b

BRIEF: . Sct forth below is a trier history of the all-Slev

Union in Shanghai, its connection wit ‘ethor minority

groups, and the. domt=-tion of both by Sovict Leaderse y
The leaders cf. the roilowing actively pro-Soviet natinlity

groups are idéntifieds Czechoslovakian Polish, Yugeslav,

: Ukrainian, Byelorussian, Runanian, Italian, Greek, Frenchy

ae ., Portugese, Finn, Norwegian, Spanish, German and: (perhaps)

: voy.) Americans Bop

SenaRRARERERRRREEEEreneneree ee

i 1, . ‘Recent reports fron this office have attempted to sute

: line various activities of the Sovict agitntion/propasanda
organization in China, as dirceted by TaSS Shanghai, ‘The

: All-Slav and minority group organizations in Shanghai which

™ are Sovict oricnted area possibly. ortant part of-the-

i agitation/propaganda effort, and a prolininary report on ~~

r then foil
pee eaters thle hsp vnsncras pate

H 2. Sone years before the Pacific var an tallied Federation

of Representa deg. db: Jal
approximately) was. organized in Shouse under jo cheim

H manship of Johnl’, SUDER,. attache. Its

i general. purpdge was ropisgate against Axis ectivitic

i and, in China, especially agains A H r simul
taneou; i tclligence organizations Fon: Sresr

mpossible for the SFation to continue

} attack made.
' nits present chrracter; Sovicts in Shanghai saw sa
re 5 hades 5

excellent opportunity to RiLorzanjzation, both

As_afibropanandainndiug and an intclligenee services. The,
Soviets, in addition to the fact that they-were not at
_. ..., War with Japan, hod the advantage of a sly editorial line... . —
‘in tho Russian press (7ithin and withcut the USSR) to the
_ effect that Japanese, soviet aims were not incompatible,
! and the Japanose, being if not pleased at least lulled,
: E | did not interfere with the formation of various Slav greurs
in Shanghai, These groups were Inter unificd in an All-Slsv
Center, located in the Soviet Club on avenue Foch; the
Slav groups maintained connections and a common progres:
: with the non-Slav minority groups. The Slav groups!
7 : Public pronouncements were to the effect that the Slavs 4
:wished to strengthen their relations with all 'frecdon=
! Loving! countries, this union having as its ultimate goal
‘a world union in which eich of such 'freedon-loving! couatrics
Would be free to ‘conduct its affairs as it chose and be
strong cndugh to protect thet freedon; it turned out, how a
‘every that the il1-Slav Vaion was not merely Savictedon=
inated but Sovictedirceted, nd any grcup which strung
long uncritically with the ‘friendship with the USSR!line
amNo vES(3) 5

Ox¢

DISTRIBUTION: CRI(20) ;CinCPac( 3) ;ComNavosPae(3
a MAL) ;E8D—44 Shanghad (2) ;ESD—24 Wekden(2)
cMagehun(1) jaa Shanghad() ;uarine Ge2 Mentsir
aa , (1) zanEmbsssy(1);l ce dircet to Cer. Joyecy
! Glenline Bldgs, Shanghai ;File. eee
yaa and er ara
: NHN - SI AP 4 SWOIDERTTAL | oy
rn a A oe

Pan PeEr nneer Spm eny gen SaEEREP Ses "=" San!


aS yg eee fa
Ae | .

LO

Gel ey ” o. tad ae
as beet fe Be eee es we. fonleerit

y th
oe AE. Laie tga i ae

ic 7 “gba Sieh yt Mia.

Zz —_ Sy leo ahee.
| lbp Be shah sips dese
KR Cute 2

aoe
a Dicer LA. bell
ae laces ag ca fle

i. ecb fot ehide lown te

ser KE.

ey
laivea Tm eed.
“s GETS Bowe .

py

“Delt sion


es a e
eto %, ny, facets Mie
i A bie ps see Lill othe e. (2A
pa Lb ti ee he EE a7 Sibiafhe

LE es on he Ee $s Adee (7 a Lz fe ete Llc ace
GE Zo Leribe, wiley eliel,
Aleut tale Coonssegce tae Kecked
Tig gl uTitec tired La DA

[eS
Z ae om Ly Bastl
Lecaglass Ede

i

= f Lindhege. Bei fa ti

lead Leese leper, Saas
. poten tiie gee

Attic acl KE an



oo eae PB rece. Libetoctrl beta
Wb tatout deed dee,

it at BSR? = : ee
"Vee Ge) PBoabesatiy Lteaicn



“ catKe-}

oh
ae

couppperpen Od

Subjects s» SHIM: Shonshat O4Si-siey ana
Organizitlens, Yovietqo

pooner or later & front for a 'whetover the- IS: -
Wants she should’ have! line. afi i

3. | The Sino-Russian, All-Slav and ninority group prograns
in Shanghai, as elsewhcre sre Largely directed. ond bore
tainly supervised, by TSS and Vous personnel, and, as
above, each of such groups is siimltsneously cn. acltations
propasanda @éndethtalligence network, The agit: tion/prope
aganda functions are directed by ROGOY, YAKSHASIN, and
KRIUKOV; the intéllijence functions, until these persons
Were Teenlled, by Avie ALEKS.ANDROV (Tic Third Secretary) :
end I4E. SHELESTYAN (both were UCB representatives), “2ye4{ |

40° The leaders of the various groups are as follows:

(a) C2ECHs}" colonel EJ Sins:
Czcchoslovakten Natt
215-218 Medhurst Road, Tel. 32681;
onetine CzechOSlovak representative 1
address 125/80 Avenue du Roi Albert, Tel, 7.
address 159/25 Avenue Hats, Tel, 70855; J.
Rue Bourgeat,’ Tel, 72171; 8. Kul, 94] venus Foch, fel,

(f2lal; Le SOMA, 119 Great Testern Rav, Tel, 20761! Drs X
REISS, [42 1i8dun Road, Tel, 10181; G2. RACHINSKY,

“Avenue: Joffre, Tel, 72295. Undercover EHTS have been ~~ ‘
the Czech Jew K, RE. R and the Czech 4, DUcuoN OF.
QUCHON. The CTub is locsted et prescnPUNGsr F Sign a‘
saying "Czechoslovak Circle," 214 avenue du Rol Albert, ;

Tel, 70671. A ee Las

(>) POLISH: Dre S. Tow.SZENSKI, 818/3 venue Joffre, :
RUTOWSKT, 1566 avenue Joffre, Tel. 75851;

y Chairnan of the
ad tie Lane

yon 4 cn

Tel. 71595; Bq Al 6.
WA COTS MCKL (In"Russiany LITSKY), address 99/1. ae
- rosper Faris, Tél, 72110; Sq Goayby" 1129/51 Bubbling :
yet Road (leader of the Polish Communists in Shangha4) ; eee

KHUDZINSXT, an active pro-Scvict Polish worker, address
unknowns” NOWOLECKI (NOVILITSKI) and GOGUL founded tho:
Russo~Polish’ Friendship Circle in Shanghai, and later a
Polish Communist e¢ll. Both have worked for TaSS and XRVN.

~'In 1946 they sent group’of Poles to ~oland via. Bladivostok,

7 aut La

: « (co) YUGOSh Ve". Orgaareed tii -shanshead suring tho var,-
its original strenth was 15-20 ProwSovict Yucoslsvs; last
year the group sent a sarll force of Yueslavs to Yugo
Slavia via Visdivosto! Its present leaders are Captain
4eDe BAVOLIN, i. SST: ‘By and 2M, FRANSOVICH; addresses
unknown,” eee s

£ Ter cert TOs Love Lene;_fnu
iw in Wanides cea belttved te begmrkine tn
e So Bnbassy; Vie GKO, Icngtine Sovict citizen;
exedirector of ARV; address 17 Te Paul Henri, Tele 736652

(e) BYELoRUSSIaNs~ A,\xaD¥SRy 1920 avende Joffre, and S._
URB.CHy T5971 a/c a
fe
. aan

ee ee
Tae OF tag. SEE



anaes hein ae =. = crannies a wee
a a a [Bia ata agert-e- /

Bea ay etd
fee. 3 eet tae

2G

Ziée~ Gi EL. LAE £8

ae 5 EES ES Pe a ae



Sagetherd Lert. Le re
Lato! aoe 2 Lovee. ae Eiacet ssihes :
Leseefel, Tics thong AS wicggsee. ef en
Oe Sheree, i beat. ae a
Lie wee

tee : cy

: Fae:
i ‘GF, cet | Led) e cage \
Goce Lethal OC) al fitledbe. shoy t Chow
: y, pe aad :
AOCLE_ fee Lex tt eae Seid



tethcine! Corea Coat fel
flecict Loic Ze Lon sllhens sthee! i
oS

i Us, dfiaers? : : ‘ i
i > es IS LLB SC. Lhicclg ss fal
. : kine a

Lica gee
Se

ee

Se
Mende

ZA
&.

“Samet se, crip ETT


Subjects- CHINA; anchat = All<Slav and Minority Group

Organizations, Sevict~orientedy in,
oS
STEF.NESXO, lender of ShanghaL
Sat munists, rr css 8713 'R ue Lorton; Ge.
feeeeee venue Hates 1, GUPERSETEIN, 239 avenue Gt is
see ‘Lbert (leader of Rua@hTan Sovleh tnti-taseist refugees) 5
Hy My DUR, address unknown, i
\ ie bee !
. sees Ca) IPALIANs fn » 1248 Ruc Lafayette, Many
: degtis Mhesrcup Contunfsts were “ebtinected with the $.S. CONTE eeraa
ca . -

[og ee oe
i (b) CRED MALNQULLTOS, 1162 iivonue Joffre, EP. -
: . YANNOULAT 395) Hunyjao Koad. “eonctine Greck Consul if"
je SMengheT; a? A.C. Sscousaits ee) avenue Joffre. eae i.

7 (4) EREN

2: eis BOIS now a Cultural Counsellor

in the French ee ry Tan

PRIKEODKO; and Dry

(3) Port uagS
Marescay Tole 7
inpéssibie t> ean
are very copy n [ey

Hjainart FRI
off tack

ee!
little or nd ey

fo? SPANTSHe yg; 2
10577 (heise répy

ney and his wife, inco
e 175 Rue Mayen, Tel.” 780644

eee “POGRESE Se ENE 253 Rue
A PENETAy DIOS, ‘both
because a and nones

anatase una

drmy

an : Acne
(1) NoRvEc via, ete 2 é present

eter snes :
fa COLONE y 51 Canton Roady Tel,
‘tative of the Spanish Republican:

Governnent in Chins); R, GaRRwilOLi, 1331 Fushing, Tel...
7903¢,(menber of Spag. 3 epublices ‘coaalttec) ; Be. ra

address uniiewn,

(n) G 2 KA ‘aneneniscn, “padress somewhere on”
coluabhe Bete tele Phoaretrmmet™£ the Gernan denoeratie
group; closely connetted with # BRAUN and BLUYENBERG) 5

AEH iss wha, Biserod }
CORT, ACUY CSS Lisoiol mugen i
I 2. 4

Ernest SEUSTSR,

leadet of the pro-Sovict free Germin STOMP y

fermer ‘nanager. of" the ancrican ses "Cosmos. Paper Coty"

(With CRUSTER were cennected Frits.
Geraan Communists whe broade: isc)

me a ae) ry ueon KOS. LMy

(o) giearcane.

Yo.actail roy exists.

Fron 1935 ~40

the Sovicts ressrded as errata rshois as oe
Pals esineed or really cozpersting 25. ‘anna so
STRONG, Harold ISG, and George LEO LEONOW" (who has Sinea~"”

ct citizen.)

Se Comments Of the alleged CZECH lcaders, RACHINSEY and:
TUCHON/DUCHON arc: known to this office to htveIong-deon \/
active pro-sSoviet propisandists ani ficld workers; the
~ others are hitherto ‘anknown y ee WeRCSLAV is the nan
previously carried 43 stEPat chatraen of the i.ll=
a ~ Slaw Unica 4a Shangbate @ tho POLISH, TOE:



. SPANISH leaders ean be identificd.

GQONEIDERTIAL
“Subject: -. CHINA; Shanghad = Al1-Slav and Liinority Croup

4 Organizations, Sovict-oricntcd, in.
ER

TOMASHEVSKY, whowis tae lender of the énti-Sovict Polish
g¥oup in Shanghai) , NOWELECKI/NOVILITSKI, and .GOGUL: are
known to have been active pro-Soviet workers in the Polish
eolony, inducing Shenghal Polos t> becone Soviet or New
Polish citizens; however, GOGUL departcd Shanghai for Warsaw -

CINE RAYA

4n Decender '46, Of the YUGOSLAV, TSLYITANICH is. belioyed

to have been a Yugoslav. representative to the All-Slev Union
dn Shanghai last years Of the USRAINIAN, KLIMENKO 1s bem
ieved to have been-a Ukrainian representative t5 the All<

Slav Union yoar. Of the BYELORUSSIAN, both KADYSH and

YRBACH have been carricd as: the Byclorussian representatives

“to the Al1-Slav Union, Of the RUMANLA, STEFAIESKO and
GUPERSHTEIN wore reported a year ago As working together to Li
form a Sovict-Rumanion Fricndship Socicty and a Kumanian
Comaunist cclle DENTICCI has been earriel for some “timo as .

the leader of the ITALIAN Communist croup. Unspecified

reports have given the YANNOULATOS brothers as lenders in

the pro-Sovict GREEK group. Of the FRENCH, this is the

sccond time within a month thet sources have given GROSBOIS
as & leader of the pro=Soviet frction; (er some reason” ————~
sources did n>t mention Paul PREUET and. SHIKIS, Of the
PORTUGESE FOGREBETSKY=NENEZES was previ 7 knswn as.
PROGESETSRY pretending to be a Portugese; sources say that
ne is half Portugese. Of the FINN, Ejalmar,FRUNDT ‘is
personally known t+ this office; as of a year ago; he was:
afraid for his life if the Sevicts were to set hold of hin;

possibly things have chenged,. None of the NORWEGIAN or
The GERHAN cannot be

i the status of the ANERICAN group is
sonewhat specials, for instonce, tekes the most
charitable view poss: of Sovict aetivitics, end Hiss
STRONG is.a longtime voeiforous fellow-travelier, but, As
sources. say, there is notgenuine AMERICAN group In Shanghai
or elsewhere in China working patontly for Sovict interests.
Investigation will continuc, ‘and further reports will be
made. elt

identified as such, 4

Sienna
CONPLDENTIAL
a ae

7 or

ESI EL aa Ee



|Bf Acceptance of this document by YOU constitutes YOUR.
“certification that Its use Is_for SFFAGIAL BUSINESS. OWLY

I. “THIS: ‘BOCA MENT: IS. CHARGED: Te: you.”
12) RETURN “THIS DOCUMENT :TO THE RI/ARCHIVES,
1232. R&S BLDG, LON OR peers DATE INDICATED:

Tajeemaare

A —teS' RECORD. MATERIAI>, —



Se a et

{Te Lioutenunt Cctoned room, Ae PRAYP
a Prout don 1. Coddington

Sow ass vas a Leftist! Gt Ga ab ait pan:
teheruie niieias acta. Stores
RuroLD bosane a eonvert to Trdtsliion, partly, of least, unter Qusste Snchustes,
He felt thet *mufferdiig Tufts" required a revolution’ to svt things strAight.
1 = Gommndan we} too organised, and IAMS wan 2 corgluto Andivitwotet, ani roseted
= Me Ma i roa ano amin Yo wont a

Ke petipernd tn Phemahed Renn bbe net ee need A cet

a


t id nina elpectalty Ditters 1sacs, ord bin wife deft Shenghal afer =
this). and movod' to Peiing, There he acquired a Chinese translater raned LIV, and

there he cottled dam to write his book, The Trazdéy of ibe Onirese Revolution. °

brad beet “es the Stalinists to the mast? ond shows that they were nessing

2 arocnt with a sitintion tn China which they aid not uverstand.

vhs trve rand tho bno'e consider It exceldert,

Very zany poople


a enn ‘

- asi
eee een oe serene YO yp co

RAPID POET Wsa503, contmed : a : : it

Ths Sock ea coheed et Sand its wife rstamed to the United States
about, Apri. er Yay 1935, mediately after this, ISUCs mce a yupld trip to
Caley Hormay, to seo hin herd, Los TRYST, ube ms }ving thare at thet tino,
Timea on this cession thst bs mint: have entertaken to tramlote TRISETs book, q
whtther Pranes 2° TUES then eburd tH Tay ant wet to wa for thw :
__ HAVAS Hawa Agency once zor.” 7 i 7
: Corr oe ee he el nt et
fn he word hand for HEECAN Bins,
"By 1940, bovaver, ha bucene dlagucted with Ker York politics, end Besors
_Astereéted 4n tho wan, ani in’bougeots ite. Ee ond ‘his wife iad a baby at passers)
"about the time (tats tiret), en 1Suts coun he eould write sedlo aceipti- end
~ Est good money for then, Up 5 3542, ha bad bean Diving ehlatiy ace hts father,
| ey ee ae er eed Tn 1942, be aid a "Report to the lation?
“for CBS.

ce ISUCS ta a very mart sated, Fe kaos a. lot about Caina, and te % mas a.
‘Ast about poopie th general. Merwover, be 45 a Great dos] "ameter" an’ toro
islets nev thn howe tan yrs aps,



SEC.2T—

eoraay cee (WHE FLUO 9 D
ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET akeRorHur

Barre ta aoa Steet 6.06 “19° van Hanbe xchconni!  lansped wit Oa une,
me ‘anion

| iat acasey SS macht MEL tee ten comment Eek oticer abould sre seat wegOne
|. IME RewSBa s0d Record abest sboule HOT be renered fem Be atecec stsonn ill

DOCUMENT Nu;

acy [FROM aERAEMiz913

Sor :

COMMENTS \

NOTE: W'« corr or atachmidia we wowed Ih
AWebed document, note the location of the copy aoe
feat ‘doroon. If this RECORD Copy Ish sen

Cry A

ie tive afte Dok eal the Comal Pla Srcaea 2

oe
: icra Sefee/é Quite sf



c1spATEH xo in.

i ; ’ : rsceeers i ae
oe a cre He
iy; : es et, fe TAL
- TO 1 Chief, WE Cer ec

FROM :  Chiof of Station,|

SUBJECT: ceneru— Operational /SYNCEROSY

SPECIFIC Dutch. Consul General Reports, Shanghai”

WOT Stil ABLE FOR wat

Attached 49 SYMPATHIZER report CQ 131 which trananits old reports fron

the Dutch Consul General in Shanghai concerning persons ‘suspected of working

for the Komintern and the RIS.”

i 4 June 1958shnd : w ip:

Ye : 2 Ne
E Distributions ‘ : : |
£ 3 - RE e/atts : : ae
2-| w/atts . *

Aurea



i
I

Pontaseplaunarsanosennatnay

sin

ot

Ihpowe TI eeRsPPORe
WR SA2988 ek

Enolased we send you some old reporta. from.
Dutoh Consul General in Shangtist. ..
The first two are liste of namas of persons suspect

to be working for the Komintern and the ReTeSo {7

fhe third report, probably from the Shanghai poli~
oonaerns Agnes SNEDLEY. Cait \

1 peat



Sleep ot

C.1, 80.3878 : “o-GRAVENEACE, 19 Juli 1933.

GEHRIM

Bijgaand.red ik do cor U te doen tookcaen ‘
oan’ f-tal efechriften van ii joten van porsonalie lover
de lnatete holft van 1932), benevens e4n afschrif$ van
eon rapport over Agnes SIEDLBY, aftoastig van dén Conoul-
Generaal te Shanghat.

Verzonden aant

;
{

i

|

{

{

to, :

4 : don Heer atnini.trateur der Gronsbonaking.
|

i

\

i
H { +
5
Politie amaterdan. H
ate jotterdan. i z
‘ Den Haag. } 5



3

5. Charles (iotagy anes,

6, Yolomaa Pinos,

®. Sousa a

“ao, Maaanyie,

ieee onl agra

teivr. uortod” ADDU.AS

78TH,

ea eA

+ \-Bapl. soviet bendelvort. Datren.

Repl. “Soleon a Co." vortre® anor thane

ein, Yeon 7 Novenber terug.

alernenr ~-nerhont. “beetre” Herbin, in-
at-Iline, Feoubeidieors duor Lalbonk, vere
nocdoli ye agent GIU, orrivenrta :hat, woont +
Pack’ aparteiente, 495 Ine Lnroyorte, vortrok

At jdoli Je vairen.

Vortrok 24 Ded, near azerikn mee ai jn v rows

Vernoed 14Jk agente GPU, i ee
aes

Vest, Prenaohe fo. *Leleuf> (pharm.prod)

heeft kantoor lokales, “arnhold & Co

aio godurande oi jn vorblijr Harbin sgante

gobop vaarn Besoekt gerogeld Rantoor | L.
Centrosoyus, Vertrok.89 Doo,-naar Lairen, 7)

wie Voinéreann, ook "China Taport ixpnrt
Lumber Co."

in onderhandelinie net Lovino (00) over
Bankoop soviet eemant.

bietieaedtal (88)6

Tibsags loos afd. Cesitroocyua, verhutoge
tet “He Jootic Apartsante", Bubbling tell,
Foads

sgent Zollase, Viedivostook, vertrok vat :
Shot nror Tientein, on vandear Boar Viedi« i
vootook. ‘ou doles zijn gevocet mot mio=
@ Dalbureaiis

319 Xtengot liond, in bompreking mot Text.
Bynd.eankoop soviet isken.

Boskh.-~Tasa" Loooow, .

arriveery shat, vaont-64-1t0 velretre, vor
Boodglisx soviet asent, moce-oigonaar

a BOrkt nadw- cron bot UNAS: hendolvert.
ried.

Tot onde 1850 in relatie mot Dollmess, Sow
Bestalling hebben gakreaen wun 15,000
‘Bieten, to leveren ean loo.afd,

“pte Lak (43). 7

Vorop net cubsidie Delbank soviet pro-
duoten in vinkol 148 ito cee veours. :

“uoroury “Fading Corporation”, @ Yiukicag ” : anne


Rapl, cert, ynd,, erdetachoord Md creat

WW. CpnATLovaRRy .
chles.

0. Soca, Vroeger vert.7rust iedieo ranttatre GUS,
euiieet weont Honilton House, war ai jn vrouw:
~ Ble dove, Seunzox, © . affiotoure dontiote, sovtot aganter, hoar
= opreckkmser heeft.
oe E uRtOrsH, Smpl.Tort.yBd,UIUS, godetecheors bij Great
: oo chine Co. "
Be. Cironvanty roviet Journel iat, “Gorden .partasnto”,
ries Bubbling "ell Rood,
” G M4. .KeBYKOFP, Fieuww Sie e ‘ontroooyus, orriveerde
: : tee rt an 146
aie

‘CATHAY .COMSCARCE AL a (Ta Hu), 21 DOBAICIMUS (89).

© 26. DouAPITA, Angostels alo verkoopor biJ “1
ei {76}, wogat 1¢ Eyakeo aveaus, Bubbliag

Agent ‘*Koreven™ (thoohanéol) Harbin, oot
Baksn mot Mongalis door tuasehenkomat |
Centrozoyus, wont 36 Hte Grouchy, verteolz
7 Nov, Deiren,

poo
a a0 ciind in Import ixport lambor Co", onder. Yetding “Arnhodd & Co."
(lier wohtor, groote hoeveaiheden hout ult UR.

"China Soda Conourera Sooloty”, 56 Siking Nd, in underhandoling
‘met Saneguine (189) over eankoop chasioalits.

*crttra Bros", | fe. opmoricht doort

Jooow“PUNIRO, oliad <TRYRO, -1de0 WILUIW, 2440 bron

MAINO, (intidéels nave acorila vertrokkon) en -

RYOMTRO. Kantoor 35 Canton toad. Uandolca in eovict produoten.
Fagob woont Foohington Apte, flat 41.

Rusa, pera, Bou Ud aijn Coun, Jougs.

a. 1 Semoun,

“Nroorer 11d Air chin. oot .ipeliarbin, orriv.s.
thet, voont Druenksemt Building, oi).

we
+ 80. VAS DELS | 1, SpL.looengeC.0.5. ,7Hesident” GFT shes,
3%. Alfred UAVINOTAL, > Huofddtreoteur *rootag® (196).
co 58 Coto, “ °. | -pen@_in @tenat loosattecoyuinett, wae vroe
| Ger tm Wongolie, sou 14a Cor. at}a, coone
a) ? Footings :



83.
oa.
85.
8,

oY,

88.

+BOSRICH DUANE,
a af
MCDopesrdssTU Ey,
MoMGEPPERT»
u.0varstaIn, ~

of
RS, 2
ore ae
sCiviisos,
ute,

we
Debs 7ROMBERO,

‘woj. Bosak,
“COLDMBRAO;

LsM.OOLVii., altos.
COLPER,

Blourswum,
sou ysvaxt,/-
ttovontryia ‘(@)

May HABEH, sie “Kotropoliten Trading
hansh

oles

‘ARMULAZT? yous hayes te

" Vroegor aap) .Mongal trans

‘Logont. ugent “chtnooedhen Goator Spooreag,

“ Jourmalieté, 114 "Ver.Vedenden Unis",

“arphold & Co®, otigde
jathey Comeroial Com (Tm Bia)

Angpbows Hongk.!has Danks

Vrooqer expt
eigen ennk. “

ARPT 100 .0g 05 40ety
Yroegor hendeloogent URRS.

koopann, cil z10h aosooiceren wot
bead Veinerocns (156) en seepfabrick oye
Fiohten, heeft kantoor op 8 Peking !oads

Varusodolt jx agent GPU, vorlict Reyer Gone :
struation Corpo

at BL 100.eg.C.00.

Agent cobtne Leport kuport Lamber Co", cone i
Sructeert bout ui:

Vroeger empl ,0.0,5. fereatege mat ijn kronos
Fij-winkel near &1] Rue Joffre.

Bap. 1oe,ofd.Boyumort.

bat hotapd ores oapl."Bostuag™ sou spootaal: ~
leering Konintera.

Uandelesgont URNS, orriveoréo stok shal,
opganomen in Gonsral lloopital.

‘frrivoorde ULt Dulteobland, woond tna Lton

kenor 32, bosockt eareqnla DOve :

agent:

Wipl loe.atd,soyumnstt. : ;

port, erriveerte
Shei, to work gostolé 100.ng-C.0.5., Vor~ i
noedelijir in relatie mot GPU, woot’ 80 Ate {
Prelupte ;

Lowtéteagents, «> :
xpert Cantrosoyus, vervengen door (34). H

vroe=
sserrlice

Gor wotoworkstor "China Pros:
hana” voor “The Chinn Ligest®.

verliet overheat i es
at ne orrostevio paar Moulenis. (208), -

‘iveoteur “tritveor Bank.
Britach ingenieur, tracht voor ~Kuangitva”
vinden in Hankow,

opelegploate te vi



64,

ao? Gionge,

“Printing vo", 33 0 Lano 470’ Tientung Hoed.

ovtBt sgett, cmptloosnfd.Controooyun,
apreokt Chineesch, orginiecert stud aie

oul

8. utes man0r8,

%. rasa abuia KISCH,__

5 We Howe. Ioe! one nism a,

-46

Jochoaiownak; vo-ncdels JX 114 Cet
woant 2) -bugoh ud, ent vemoodell jx be
Atonot trode. b1y Soyusnert,

QAL ‘ubbling soll Tong, a9u =5- onto
eeyua hodben worrontale gooddup Lorie
ip rekening te brengen voor @aoten door

Controsoyua nanberolon. oe 4
Cha abe.

Aperk.Communiot, sovretaria “Canité y.*.
Verdedteing dor Ittogge (poor Noulens
dled “China forua™ oedert Augustus ni
Versohenen, opendo' drukkorij “Standaré

Your Chineercn naar Uns,

22 Jia du Conoulat, vorkoupt eoviet lovense \~
Biddolea, guont 1182 finan Rd, pices
oi

F wr fone Leh Cole
e kn 4. k¢Toxnvsaore, i Gtr map? :

agent GU." eong 270° Yuyueniia,

Sovlot Rendolangent, zoekt URR! Kolen op ©
markt $0 plant cae

210 Chimoline (#7) en Potroff. (110),
Yrooger soviot hsndelavgont, then enpli
Central Uhina Glave Zorke Co", 66
‘Bacehuatros a -

agent biosooop ULy"Harbin, aréiveerdo chat,
woot “Inpertnl Htel”.

Fro-sdemmiat J.umalint, dio bogin 1902

in <tel vertoofde, kroas in Purop: geen
Views voor toolating in Uostenri Jk.

Untalagen b1y loc.afd,Soyumeft, tred in
dlenst bis Controsoyua, i

Jourpaliet, vronger bij “Tasn", then tolk
BIS Toosard.soyumnert, :
trad if at-net"b1y 100 nfé.Controsoyus,
wont Carter 7 ;

artiont DIY iuso,Upera, sou acer. Habié
Horbin 21 ja. - i ag

Harbin, errivee:

wount “Imperial Hotel’
ja. :

wy erkoopagent govi
leu. coakt terrein voor depos.



i

97, Mawes Lacit.vitCH,

70, WLANDSCH,
90. VeLAMDIEM,

0. AeLaviNe,

aa. nauctve,

: c
eg, FeLIomurs, |
vase URE uROS*, +

et, Kanausr,

&. inncourr,

& 88. CHATUNIANTZ,

obe

beduco vroegore eon~néant bdo focdo Leger
dor Vind on ox-dirvctour Co2,. eilarbing
woont na d%od van herr men in ipcou om
1o denr socretaresce Cormissnriest voor
ltyattne.

Vrooger e=pleofd.h “Arnhold & Co", moakte
sakenrele voor .oyusneft mar Tsingtao,

Vrooger oxpl.100.8@.4045., agent OY,
eosoolocrde sioh net Asickhvidort (64).

100.vert.Centrogoyua, tmoht on, Fusoieche
oomant op aarkt te plaotoon, leat UID Cae
eulnat opknappon,

Boho-rfor “Imperial Hotels
Loa.vert.tioyusnett.

fovi8teAmori kannocks fos

Roopman, in rolation not iovit handolovert.,
hoofs ealaranten paspoort, trad in éienat
bi) "cole, oteimuan a Co.*, 9 oshoonmder
van Sele.

Agngeotold bi J loo.ef4.controsoyus, coont
923 Rue Joffre, Harmony Tormace, KamOr Se

Sovier-koorter,

Vow “uxRCURY TRsDING CORPOR\TION*, 6 Kiukieng fd, ste 14.

oad GarnopuLitat 7H

00, PLA MOGUIL. WKY,
“
LOLs Me Mortodery,

ne ysewe ¥

92. ?.HOISEETY,
93. na rfaoted lt,
B41. MOLLISON,

98. 1.F.HURORIVE

ia co", Vuitacho fo.dir.inber (67), dle sich
vrocgar belnatte overmaking fonducn tedete
kenintern. :

inp lslooen’ vertrok naar Japan net bo-
atoming Uili'." (2). :

Mede-bohonmder *Inperial liotel".

Soviet ogont, sou lid C.P. sin en opvol=
ger van Itkin (63) bij callosa,

Trvd ole mecnnioien in dienat bij loosng.
Cees TAJn droer iat

mpl loosnfisiioyurnott. _
zio Mominaon (97).

Vanrdenkoopar, vermoedelt Jk varbindings=
agent Uk ant thane “Denia aparte”.

Loo.vert.Voxtinl Syndionat UkS.
vohenirene ©

Tot Konet sianomuine (128, obe:
fdeeliny centronoyus.

{
{



£

{

ae

|

10. yen,

-8-
Vorsoadol i Ja hulp-agen't OU, in dens d1J
rorkantal Treding Com. :
teor, Libnnotf (82).

Cele zh
Aptell,

Thotograaf uit Harbin, woar bij voor suviot
gongulnat werkte, woont ¥3 Nanking Ids,
vermoadalijk ogent GrU,

102, paar BLES, alles sworn, pucedo vergeofs ovorplentoiny nenr go~

eS

205, V.S.NOVINOR?,
_— ‘

104, S.MOVITSEY/

piet—gtli oie
20D. Meve. HUVETZRTY
106. ovanzzomD,

10976.

109. 16 Panett,

7
ae”. yx .porou/ui, ‘olteo
aie’ Pri dcuun,
ns.VSitos,
114, s. ATOLL, | —--

ns.

16,

ay,

ORIENTAL TAADING CO",

reneenio ie te, Sri irens be eee
jongers tek! ‘op wereldoongres

Nov. gehiud By gexosen tot hoavrad re leden
preoidiua,

Vert .Toxtesynésiihal.

Vormocielt Jk nfsoconon.aptonnare UNRS,
vortrok 7 Havumber naar Harbin.

. Vrouw van 104,

Ble TereOganonott (245).

BNTAL INSU'TITAL TRADING CO", wie Portus (115),

Hongkong “henghat Bank Building, kenor B19,
ond: r gootrole Lury nro (83).

unpl.loe.ofd,soyuaneft, voont £5 Tracey
Terrage,

Vert, "Karavan” (67) vil eioh esoooteeren
pat (245).

Vrooger emple"arnhold & co", in zoloties
net soviot handelaegenten. toont 132 Kte
Vohion, Kasier 256

soviet agent thats
Vert.changhal Sovtorgflot.

Tred in dicnat bij loo.afd.oyusneft, mask=
te otteli Jes reizon naar URIS, sors op
Pootung.

iizenany “Oriental Industrial Trading Co”,
19 Teking kd, in cnderbandel ingen eet
Sanequine (128), :

Vormoedalijk 144 MOPAR, 658 Ave,Joffre, ver
trok nor omiren, broer ven (115).

agent sovtorariot, arriveerés middcn Doo.
hai, trok ip ti) Tonerennykh (144), vertrok
Deo, nacr Vin



v
al a
aod we “ve

aie, r.Etantnoviter, 7 vert. 0sTnARt (tir, atentoverscter! ag)»
: vertzok pear Jazen, Viedtyrot ok.

UP. Gea ehAaV¥e, ppl heanglive Tetr.co.

22, Move, nfo. Vroun van 119,

ann, tori So snELaTT, Toofddirectour *vosteag™- (196).
es

Arte VoL ehTFISLD, Vroeger vort.:ovtorgtlot. chal, poogt da:

ASS, ROUDINSTADN, elins terner (173) elles Taylor (141), ste 154.

x. B
As4, a. aRouss tgxy, Vermeodelt jx bulp-ogen’t G10, wodat thane
y pas TgR/ bi) foniliolidy -eluiaxore [18l}, 591 ane
Joftro.
128, Ye achove. agent lid CoP.
ar6, RURCO, Sie Noulens (202).
287, Pieoned, zmpl.loo.efe.Ceatrosoyus, 130 Fathaiwotnds
e hula 22,
228, AgN-BANs0UTIES, Vort.chestscho Trust URRS shat.
x
1894 VaGsBAYADTANEZ, Vert,03S4ING, van 1924-'27 directeur Gru»

eontroleerse toan tevens elandeatiens
kort fen voor publiontie oom, pro

in Chin,, Korasenagho, Jap. en inz.tand
was vervolgens a6 j.oecro.hand

in 1929 door chin
on gedaportoord.
Aid Cory, ongovaar SU Jonr cud; in contact
met Ver. Yrieadcn US voor vertooning sovict
fllns, Bosoobs hier “Centuricn Preos” eM Cbidy
Grukkert ion dio in vorbinding staan not agenst)
ten OPK on VOX. Intiese vriend va
Vartaniants (1470.). toont Inporial Rotel.

330, aartomenaa ions, Mulowagent GIU, otgunacr “Ieide Photo

ij Road ven Vakbondan C.0.8. Harbin
dun.
°

Teahnical asnoa", otuurt photo's voor prepae
ganda naar URS.

aigenonr “cinoan «rts Corporation", 10
stuseum HKond, hed cndorhoud met Rover (125}..

S.BSRO, on ai jn Boon:

ERO, Inpl."Par Basten Inport Co", saren belde
, eonigen tijd verdacdon eh “A.Jokhvidert &
Go" (64).
™%

134, afolphe SEEINING, shal, goont 1628 Budbl.s.Ad., rolatics

455, SHRIRO (BROS), zie CHETHO (32).

Ee


|

a

136, agnes’ GEScLy™ (ete bi jiage).
137. 5000) Arriv. chai, soont 94 Geynour M4, broef vent

ae
138, Hej.culnory,
339. a./SREBROFP,
140, Lvormexr,

Mapl.loo.age OeUeUe
Loo. vort.Dalleso.-

Soviet evintour, Inatatali jk workzom bAy
nDAT (UN'S 'ftaatopublicetios; arrivs
Shai, soon’ Hanilton House, kator 415, aooft

F : sich "uit voor ortigst, te vermoodel! Jk ageat
- - Monvadoupr, broor van Mevr.LAcHAVITCH (97),
- Arad in dionat bij sanzetti Studio.

OH (183).

Tred in dlenat loosngsC.U.3., woont S56 Aue
Joffre, tan huine Harteig (65).

UA, TAYLOR, olina 2.UBIIt:
“248, N.TOHSDAA,

‘y

TOHEIAIKOPE, 11 COvIet seent, vortrok nnar VindLvostook,
Pewee aN i :
164, AsPeFOHRRAMHNYRB, | Bupl.loe.ng.C.0.0. aou fr dionat CFU si jn
if gotroden, coont 702 suo Joffre.
5 ae le
Utbe Ge TER OGANEZOPY, Vroeger sgnnt (rU, heeft sich geassooicerd
net H,Fetrort (120) seneindo koarderiJ op

on 0 ee to richten,

140, HTIMa?Zkee, Opziobtor “Calulu™, boot ult Vindsvootook,
: heort kanor 10 Hankow fond, Grad tijaoli si
1n. d4enot Yovtorgflot chal, vartsok Jeter
Rank US.

Arr. Shot, wodnt “Enporin] Hotel”, vert.
“Interkino” biosc,op Wij. to Harbin, werkt
7 paren not Soyadyents (289).

Whatton
aah vevaRuan, ~ ‘Beheerdor "Tuas" te Looeos.

a
247%) Medic VANTANTUITZ, - Hoceetour “Lo Projoatour", vriend van (189)

: Po
247, 8 ASATRINKO,

148, Jecod B.vAIN:RuMsNH, | Zonder beroop, 122 seymour Kond, heeft
vier souns:

149, 1, Alber @VcINZRUANN, Yroegor enpl.Centrosoyus en officteus verte
Text.synd. Heert mot 2 volgende broere fo.
"A.Velnermann Uroe”, 19 ituseun Fond, -

180. 8. Vital VAIN: WMUNN, Censa. net albort, vrooger- vort. “scotes™
(tafelolie), 11¢ C.P., zou net Borodiss

in Conton hebben ssnangeverkt, vertrok 19
Noy ar Dairon, keerde 9 Deo. thal terugs

21. Se eee Geasn, not Albert en Vitale
282. 4, Alexander V.OINLRUAIN, kort in-rhnt,.empl, seatio Rearmbot? & 00.

eke

fT
;



t
pe
!
i

“20%, 2. VEDI,

aaa
169, Boris 3. VAIRGuLGi,

"204. Ls Move, ROUEN TAH,

2 capl.centronceus, tear vas Jee08
(148), boert teve coskterat

Yrouw wen Houbinstetn, alie-Torner,

ioe

7 taylor, rede-oleeoaer suwert Pood", winked

Op 737 Aue Juttre,

2 8. Bowe, Ben {WDE SMAI, gotrour act boar aceft

166,  beayenas®, Diam,

Cancer,

288, ast.

16d. A.d.TERRITSORY,

1M, F.vorst-TaIR,

ie?, v.tDuR

Oomacgger van Jacob en Boris V.,vrocgor vapl.

sooth
net Hpatein (42), travis op 27 October 138
woont 42] ave du ‘Rod albert, Intorsevings 4.

Aptos

uit Medivostock, eeht int ogent

arr.
Dalrybe iVinoh Syndioast vb. Verro Osates)
to zijn on verwant to sign osm gobre. o
Veinermann.

Zeiteor, névosaat vnn Woulens, vertrox 2
November nasr Visdivostock.

aSey Stgonsar todos
ee WOON Ma Jostio

Vrooser oupl.100.8g¢:
vinkel op Bubbl,ioll
Apta, keer £0l,

atr, begin Dee.Shat, wont Park apto, 455
fue’ Lafayette, zou Duiteohe fate vort

besooht kantoren Vontrosoyus en Dostaa
zou. vrooger biJ arcos te Londen gewea:
BiJa, oprackt 2ngoloch, Praaod, en Duited

Senoa.otcord ect corhyreff, vertrok. 27 Hov.
nnar Mrd.Ching voor versoop UWUG.minarnal «
water.”

Yroogor Dy siongoltranoport, arr. ult URRS
Shai, soviet koorier, auhgesteld als
exer of Huashan®, boot Verando Susachsa.

Shai on Vindivoatoolt. ‘

wie Roubinetiin (12>.

entrosoyus thai, verhuied- nor 20
2 zijn vroum:

Bapla
Uankow 1

dangesteld ala ty:iate LiJ loo.ef’.Centro~
voyus, kort dnarop ontalagen Gcor innet
Mcatkon, die niet godoogd dot mn en vroug
D1J nelfde inatolling worken.

Am

“arnhold & co", vil sich esscoicorea



ua

16%.

200. Zede YARTIOUIND,

199,
an.

ave,
2B.

awa.

n

ey

Zaaunne,
Rezals,

imiten 17,

nS VERO,

u
WezLoacoVEn,

los
Dultoche firee, ¢4 Yoting hood, sou finan
Gledle agente der {1lde intern. ai Ja on
golden t.b.¥. Konintars ovormken. ©1¢
Goug (43). Le fo, die oioh doar vrooger
eo belestts was de "Hotropoliten Troding
Co" {05), ovencena oon Dulteche fo5 bo
fonteng heoft hofskantoor ta Borlijn,
egentacheppan to “hol, Kookéen, Tiontein,
Harbin, Kolgon, Urga en Chita, 0: o8 beard
sutobusdicnot tussonen Knlgen on Urgne -

Vertonden sen Dalleso shat, sou lid G.P. bisa
e

aio Sonneidor (150).
Yan fo, “cade, titeinormen & Co", tp Felatio

not soviet hendelainatellingan, Is getroued
.Bot doohter van Maronant (84).
Fentitelid van Noussotaky (184).
Vroorer agen’ C.,%o hot, thana ofgsaene
“Cathay Internationa) Impors co", 318
Sbeokues Hood... :
' i

Hooraatreoteur “rootweg” (167).

Shanghat, Hovesber-Dessaber 1952.

de-deo-atoro-o-0-0+0~

enctcietr neha sos: satan»



ve

ara, samo

B, aRCUS, Solonca,

eile
6, de BEFRSRATSN,
9, ne“DsiRRATER,
oP’ Soommusr, cornelte,

e vivsaesrmn, .

20, ures,

a. or io,

12.

24, MOS SPSTSDE,

wont engiok ult Kz

dag Li Ska
Hondelr-organtoaties te Shanghat.

Duttocher, echtgancot van Nosd. 14) pu-
bdlicesrt artikelen in hat déatied do
“Chips Presa" onder Ret peousenicn
Griffin". Lid yen do Verconiging ven
Wrienden von 40 J.NeO.3e

Dulteoho, echtgonoote ven Mow. Lid ven
60 Vereeniging von vrionden wn do U.Re
Tee .

Sorkzeom bij de DALLETS. Oud 11d van do
Rusolsohe Commmiste Partij. lo berusnt
voor aijn ureedneid, loot velo excouties

Op ai jn geveten. ford door Lenin bee
ceate wencas het dcon fusillecren ves

parti Jeenoton, :
Soviet hendolnar in efolgenteenten.

Hoot van No.6, Koopsan te Teingteo.
Nederlender. Onderhouds botrokkingen Bet
sawiot-ngenten to Shanghai, sovale be
BEANOVSRY on TCHOU .

14d O.P.U,

“Werksoea bij de Soviet Cinematographioche

‘Trust.

Duitocher, Voorzitter van de Verceniging
van vriendon ven do UsHe5.24

Miews Girooteur von do Delbank te

Japensche communist,

Soviet koopsan, ‘tred in hot buwelt jk m8 ©
Mej. B.DALUGISKY, euater van het 184 ~
G.P.U. Urn dien poate

as, efasme, attes aardZ Guim, Lid 0.7.0,

eA FrovstA@0,
y

av, oF, ras e

* Geemployeerde BIJ do Cancdtan Peoific

Secs COs Bonoekt herhanldelijk 4,Levine,
direotour Centrosojus.

wordt er van veracht agent to zijn van

40 BUPA,
! Sa Ce

‘it

@ dozooken nan de Soviet oe



-Re

DANTIM JUROPS, wertzno bid de "konzankop* (cooporo=
a h ‘love Centrale voor Hongailo).
Pat :
19 PGsparsir, Hod. dey coohter von gon kosator vnn do centro-
eujus; 10 selva werkznon bis
- : sojumeft.
“a rns
GOUSRKIN, Liovrouw Hey Hooter wen Hej. DsGODIKNIE (Fowl).

Boe
ELAUTGRUPE, Ade, agrivasréa op 0 Leptemter 103° te
ia Shangkei., Lid van do ltuselsebe Com

: : tuniote Perti); werkrara DiJ deo
~€hinveschen Soster fyorwege

}

| Tae.

i eM CRIMTALDT, Bovrouw wahsgen ote win Af TteLDT, 440 werk 1

| _Heot to bis-do MicHTORG :
atl

; BB. Ko ‘Hartuane , fob. ;LBENO,.. Oud-gednployeerte bij to Calbanks

i 24, 7. NORMY, Tohakoslownek, Lid van de Nussieche

camuniste Parti j. Vertrok onlo!
Rerr Europa via Ruslend voor de G.P.Us

88, 1,R, T6Aacs, Aberikennooh jourmolist (Chinn Forum).
Cotmployoome van ¢e Centroosjus. te

i 26, Fe XTRIN, cea hoy
5 7
2 Ronen
H 87, Mewes v1e0 TAY, Bohtgonooto win A.KAMSETZSY, dio
i iy workznnn 12 bij do coviet handalovor=
i tegenwverdiging to Tokio.
| 28, Seconn, Oootenri kor. Jood, Lid van do Ver~
] eopiging ven vrionden: von do UsRetieSe H
| 29, Hovroue 2.<7KINIS, Soviet goéaployenrte te Harbin, thane i
i te Shanghat.
! or
30. Sf K18cH, Rndloe=1 Jrumnelist vortoofte in Jult
ise in Maakou.
“—
Bis Aeas”Kononmgy Htel¢ op 7 Zult cone lesina voor do
loeelo cel van de Chinsesghe cormmte- |
te Pertij. }
Vie, :
32, Mevroue LOVALETY, Eobtgencote ven AKOV-LIED, Ole vextee

~ gann te bij de Controsojus te thanghat,

co BBS Berge; Beaune Werkanan bij do Lalbanks

34. Sele NOPCHUUBEY, Helmer, avent C.P.U. Zijn werkolifke
. naan ip Anatole LeoptiioTong.

Pas Laato, erkzaon b1J de “COmmDTOROPRAM®,
Stout in verbinding mot de firma “Ovee
Bestan, Coldbere & Co.” voor efset van
Rinorealuater en verdoovende middoles.

36. “wait L posaxe, Pos anngekonon Soviet egent te uhanghal,



f
i
i
|
i

Prey finger
aunty
wt" Scintoiy;
haves
‘DgstpoRr,

42, 78

3. Possis,
amore,

AL plicclent

4, rt Sones,
a, aes

oP Aun,

a.

80. oP er uincxy,
Bh. wer coun STOLE,
240 ne

St, TER-OGN:OFY,
fur Piece |

\ é
whe Je. .n0TCNUBEY. (NOs:
Ltaet in verbinding het Coviet agenten
fe cRengaed. Hig vortcok op US Auge
AM gnor Amerika,

Lid van Ge usoieche oomaniote Parts,
Te to chunghst op gene peho:

Stost im verbdinding met hot TAD
gohep. i

Verkinas bi J de ‘conunteche optonnege
dionot von de Soviet.

Vetaployserte bij de “Globs Trnding Ca.",
@en “voviot winkr! t» Shanghai,

ieytet hendelnor in dianasten te sheng-
ate :
Saltaployensde bij Lury broo. te changhat.

Soviot evant bij do curkiseden on boo~
roninopootic. louder von Soviet paspoort
Mo .c08004/210956

aserikaensch onddiwijzores, Tr’ op 29
Auguatua in hot huwelt tk moe THAci
(tio6)s Uh) 19 communtate goxorten,

vostonrt Jkery Joot, gaiinployoent: "ELLte |
Sork hoon, Lid van do Vorsoniging: ven
Veiendon van do Velie Be

h

Yertegonyoordiger van de “cocedtorgproa”
on do “FAiMACON™, Hordt er von vardacht
siokkelner te zijn in verdquvends mide

* delen,

1
Lid Gs: Ue, workzasn BIS hot soviet
Sonaulon’ te Harbin. Vortoefde in Juld
1952 te thanghal,

imal i fl
Zigohaar von hot rodenarazt jn “La Porle
Hiolp” ta Bhangtial. vok GPUs.
i

Wugikent, eohtronoot von Mevroun Leds
TR ITEKY (No.81). be

Eahtaenvdte van Nob, Ma GPU.

Vrooger G.i'.Us arrivnorde in Jult 1658
Be lenge afwoxighel4 iw ta Uhanghat,

australlor; Journaliat. vaderhoudt bo
Arekkinren nat ISAACS {nd¥£5) wan hee

chins Foruas
a,

[3°

i
{


-46

Vertegonmoordigor to :henghet van do
‘oviet oteankolontrunt (DALUG:L). Vere
trok op 12 wertember 1975. ra ke
onder den oem van "Iya AMULCROLT
Vevretgn even pag poort. Pe APSGGS,

gevon to Khabrrovok op £0 Juli s03ze

ide ook DUUN..UM. 7

85. wth Tepusfouciun, vetteorea. Lovict ogento.

tah — * \ud-getimployesrde won de Dalbouk te = .

kobe. a i

07, J, VINCENT, ‘Uetteer, advocnet van hot NWULEKS poar. !
Lid yon'de vervoniging von vrienden :
Won d@ Ushebae - H

88, J.c.7KTSSUAN, i Workuana bij de Centrooofua. 7

89. save, Sarina, Duttache, dirootrice ven do ‘boexhandel Hy

“iRITOSIST™ te Shanghai. Lid yen de
Duttochs Cocmuniota Pertij; eecretarcose
von de Vereeniging van vrienden van dot
UeHieBe

uo van Duitecho afzanat, Lid KOPR, aur
test in verbinding mst de advocotcn :
van Houleng.

Oednployeorte von de firms *H.:arlovaky

& Co." Lid wen de Lige ven Jono
connuntatens

-0-0+0-0=0-000-0-02

~~
—s



i
i
i
i

aac ge .

agnea ‘wodley, wliesssitce Yiré, olice Uro.Petroikes, on

apartean of th: 1» L098. nt Jocood,: Wu ooourt,

2a bom on February
UsSeae Momder of the fiindusten agcoetation of Yerlin ond of the
berlin Indion Revolutionnry woolety, author of several novols in

mnglioh end Ovrman, one of which “Doughter of tho Karth™ published
Dy C.MoCann in New-York during 192) in believed to be a coloured —
veroien of her oun life. ar ived in shanghai during lay 1029 fron
Derlin having truvellod vir Moscow, tinrbin, tukden, Tiontain and

Peking, Journeying on Fessport.Ho.1266 Looued on Sumi 29, 1928 by.

the Unite? «tates Consulate of Berlin.
By profession Aenea :modley 10 a correspondent of tho "Franke
stung” the officiel orgen of the Cormen. tenooratio Ferty.

turtor
Sho 49.10 the servico of the .eotorn ranch of the Central

Comittee of the Comnuntot Internatiune and undertakes tho pro -
Pagoting of consuntst doctrines ond setivition throughout tho Oriente
the reseives ordera direct fron the Central Coomittes of tho Cosmmist
Internetional in Yoscow end hus no ¢ireot sonnestion with losal
Soviet comamists, in order to dawufloge her notivi tions

obief dutivs comprise the organising of workere end the

eotabdliohing of dommunint orgeniaations enong the workers. The
nature: of her work 13 siniler to thot of towlons, und 1% to pro
bebdle thnt sho knew the : corctary of the P.P.7.Usie

Sho speaks cuglish, rengh and German well.and ie in possea=
@10n of two posrrorts - German ond Anerioan.

Following her errivnl in Shanghai, she resided at 85 svonue -

, Dubai), « hussian boarding house, sharing a room with one Cortrude

Binder, on am-rican citizen. che first attrectac attention locally
uring February 1932, whon aertnir. correapondence fron hor pen
publieke : in the “Frankfurter uettune” reg-rding alleged cieontie



7 7 oa
: \
+ ghgontio preparetivee taxen by the i.nanghel Muntotpel Counet2 on’:
August 1, aoe ese the auppreaaiion of communirt disturbances,
Bersted reprotuotion tn the coviet newspaper “Investia™ (Rorcow) |
on Decenber 8, 1229, and wae ngain reproduced in tho teen journal:
“changbal . aria” op ebruary 11, 19506
In a@dition to ectinr as correspondent totthe “Frankfurtcs
sottung™ Xie caedley olso eontributes artioles to the “China

Reekley Review” « <hanghal publiontion undor the managenant of one |
AF sMOw, An artiole written by Agiea Unedloy entitled "ihile |

Viptne Skétehea” wae publiched in the June (1050) socio of the” - ‘ :
“Hew Mosseo". whe ir also balievet to be the author of an article | |
entatied ~wndon Behind the Honpman chiang Ket chek™, which appeared |
An tho “Red Ting” (hote Snbne) dated Berlin, Sorteriber 5, 1952, i

“ghe"eloo cinds tine to devote attention to the politico! ete \ i
tuotion tn India, favouriny the anti-uritteh perty in that cuntry, |
8he 18 aloo known to be in touch with loenl Indien oeditioniete
end on several oconsions iina edited anti<Uritich propagehdn on be
helf of the chenehe’ Branch of tha indinn Youth League, on Indien
situated at 242 H

‘evolutionary orgnnisation, ocoupying prenia:
Pooahing ioed, chapel.

On Moy 15, 1930 Kise Hedley Left shanghat for asoy end eter
proceeded, to Centon, vuring ceptenber of thé eine year infortiation
was received fro- the Honrkung Police to the effect that a house
@ecupied by-seneo netley had born raided by the Canton Polies and |
that numerous peyers relating to Indio had been seized, Following. é
the rai¢ ohe removed to tha ®renoh Concession at Shenogn end re-

meine :.there, uo fer ao orn be ascertained, until ber rettra to
‘Shanghai in the third foak in October 1950 the she took we nae
Fesidenco et 72 ioute ¢e Grouchy. On Jenuary ef, 2052 ohe pros

eoced to Nanking and d14 not return agrin until Margh 5, again |



: again taking u her residetice ot 7f toute oe Orvuchy, tho left
~ " Shanghet cose aesin un June 16, 2031 for Canton, chere it to Fo

ported ebe visite the canto Authorities, returning to chanrhat -

op July Se.
on votober 14, 1951 eke removed fron 72 Houte de Grovehy. to
} Apertrente, 1552 avenue Joffre.

4

Apertaont luz,
° puring the letter pert of 1052 At-ene ascertained that ~gnos.

vmedley Prequeatly viaited 6t their ploce of residence, Herold Re

He Koonce ond cefro:k Clo two notorious, lecal redicale,

“ puring tha saze perio’, dua to action on the part of the

Chinese Covernnent Yostal Censor, 1t onre to our knowledge that
aloo rodley was at vorious tines in reooipt of oaxuniot and antic

{

importaliot Liternture, sage of which una posted loslly whilet
one wae nailed fron as far avay ao Berlin.

On Maroh 1U, 1952 she egnin renoved, this tine to apartment
304,01, Apartmenta, 1552 Avenue Joffre, where she otill resides,
ond shore she ib know to receive chinese ant n few foreign viet-
tora, cuss of shon are inthe hebit of steying ull night in the
opertment in cusstion, It 10 believed that theas visits are made in
‘order that meetings may bo heié in connection with the all chine

Labour yederntion (Unich eyndicale Yan chinoteo, of which Agnes
Mmedley fo sei¢ to be «© prominent mender.

The chinese who visit her are mainly of the étudent type,
Rilat it hne been ascertains! for certaim: _..\.

that ono of her foreign visitors 1s _Agur chow, the manoger of the : .
“Chine ceekly ieview™. i
agnce cmedley hus upon. sevoral oogasions Jwurnayed to the f
{ Amtor louse Hotel, and enquiries mado by the wuntoipal Folios ston z
{ Wat she aa in the heb{t of calling, upon roca 218 oooupied by i
: i t
: ies ain |



by tre,dursthy Koll,’s Germn journalist, anertcnn by birth’e
‘ correspondent of the “viplomatic Nevsreper” (Dinionsttieche vettung), pee
who recently arrived im changhet, ostenatbly to distribute rifts
frog the various Cormun ronen*s associations to the troops of the

chinese 19th Route army. Ao far as can be ascartaine! no political

signitiance 10 attcchot to the meetings of these tuo ladies.

agnes medley ie mown to visit the Jeitgoist Sookstore, 415
Bubbling s¢12. floed ot irreguler intervals, but abs bas pot been
observed of late in the oumpany of Harold H.lenace, who ia reliably
reportet to de ercat udnirer of her teliefe. :

78 hatter teen

\
§



| OO. -00Y-/4,
f--0603 25>"
RO FUN LS
RG -7-O- 27

ePIve cae
Be hen al

