04-01 10-10965]
ede ‘ a meet
anaes .. now} °°: SECRET eC T
. q (When Filled Ya)

a7

TERMINATION SECRECY AGREEMENT

1, L acknowledge that by virtue of my duties | have been exposed to or. the recipient
of classified information, which,‘tn itself, or by the implications drawn from it, Is highly sen-
sitive and its unauthorized disclosure or negligent handling could adversely affect the interests
of the United States. | am aware that the unauthorized disclosure of .classified information
2 is prohibited by the Espionage Laws (18 U.S.C., Sections 793, 794 and 798) and that a vi-
olation of these laws may subject me to prosecution by the U. S. Government. ~

2. Uhereby reaffirm my pledge that 1 will never publish or reveal by any means such
i information. ! agree further that 1 do not now, nor will | ever, possess any right, Interest, ~
title or claim whatsoever to such information. 1 recognize the full and vested property right
of the United States in such matters.

3. I certify that | have surrendered and no longer have in my possession or custody any
classified information or material acquired as a result of this association.

4. 1 further acknowledge and agree that | have a continuing individual responsibility
i to the United States Government for the protection of such information and that the termina-
: tion from this relationship with my employer ‘and/or the United States Government does not
relieve me of my obligations under this oath or any other previously executed Secrecy Agree-
ments. | understand that I will not be relieved of these obligations except when specifically

advised in writing by the sponsoring activity of the U. Ss. Government.

5, | understand that this oath’ ‘may be fated by the u Ss. Government for Its future’
use in any manner within the scope of this oath.

NAME OF WITNESS (Type or Prist) ~ iNod 5

‘SIGHATURE OF WITNESS.

NAME & ADDRESS OF AFFILIATION.

L.A Deere
9 Taey 1F2

: RETURN TO
OO
Ee Couto al oa

ay

