# 104-10247-10119

## Page 1

104-10247-10119

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

1s Jaguary 11965

MENORAKTAI FOR TEX NECOLD

SUBJECT: Asing leeting, 14 January 1965, New York Clly

1.

feetter TimeT

ase: The seet les was held

in the offices al a

Tiron 1100 to 1350 hours. The

purpose of the a

On ALASH J' and to briet

AM HIP

carding ta role in tho

meetings betuees AlASt 1 and AuBIDDY'1, 8o be beid in surope

during Jamary 1965.

2. Details of the Meeting: AWHIP'I was concerned

about his role fres the seetings between AULASH'I and.

AMBIDDY l. He was first of all concorned about whether the

second seet ins sisald eres take place. The undersigned as-.

sured Anup I that not enly vas nother meet ips probably not ont

necessary but highly desirable,ln glen of the many problems

and details which andeattedly sere left to be ironed out.

As agreed with I. Sanchez prior, toithis Yer York meeting, the

undersigned toat the position with AMIHIP 1 that he was not

aware, of the details of the orlelnal beetins end was inter.

ested to obtalmiag aoy inforation which mas ayallable to

ANNHIRT AND stated that he hinself ald not know much

about the math"s detaili as he lad la fact lost Europo bon

Soro 1t loo place. ANTIP'! la not convinced that KUBARk was

MANATE DE BRE GERALIS OR RAIS ACCLINS ANd ARLIMARCO AS BUCH

se 1he underalsest de, semierer, naintained the fleeson thät

---

## Page 2

we did not know and proceeded Ith discusstong along that

DAD ASHRA as Mohala shit yould undoubtedly be

of considerablo latoret to us her topple y antond ent

afore-mentioned january neeting between ANLASH and AMBiDDY.

ÄMNHLP/1 had informed us in an earlier telephone conver

satzon. (lemo for the Record, dated 12 JaB 65): that AHLASH

had checifically requested that he attend the rectine. Or

AWHIP/S to aiscussing the reaspn for hig attendance, Bua

restod that perhaps ANASh/l rented a trustvortly eltness

to the conversations and also possibly to witness the signing

of

a written memoranda which might be prepared

by the two participting partles..

As sighted In Meno for the Record, dated 12 Jan 65,

ASNHIP/1 elaborated on his telephone conversation with AMLASH/1

who had called from Geneva on I? Jan. ALASH/I had called

tron

".s,

AWHIP/2'3 hone to AlWHIP/l's office nina

:Y.

2994374

ANLASHVI

indleated that he desired another meeting. with AMBIDDY prior

ster.

to his return to Cuba. However,

getting our concurrence for

this meeting, ANHIP/l Informed us that he expected to contact

AWBIDDY/1 In Miamt on the ISth of January during a stopover on

his (WHIP's) trip to Puerto Rico. AWHIP! Sald he would elther

see AMBIDDY personally, telephone him, or lo any case make

contact with hia through son to gue carely forcer

vazquet

member of the Exy of Pigs Brigade and presently manager or owner.

of the Laundry Chantres, located on 8th Stres Wiand (see

attachment for traces and for further identification of Garcia),

---

## Page 3

14-00000

3

AWWHIP/1 stated further that AVLASH had decided that he should

like to have the meeting in Rome and that it should take place

sometime before the end of January (since it is now known that

ANBIDDY intends to go to Europe during the first part of the

week of the 18th, Its quite possible the meeting will take

place during the week of the l8th

ANHIP said that he would

not have an unlimited amount of time this time to be in Europe.

We said we understood this and told AWNHIP that "Nick" (N.

Sanchez) Iikewise could only devote 3 or 4 days to European

meetings. It was agreed, therefore, that for the best

utilization of both men's time, they should coordinate their

travels to Europe.

3. Silencer: ANWHIP opened this subject by saying that

he wanted to get something off his mind even though he was

aware that we were always reluctant to discuss this subject.

He stated that he would be able to get a silencer for a

subject with "Nick"

for discussion between AMLASH and ABIDDY. ASWHIP/1 stated

that he understood our position on this point. Ne then pro-

ceeded on the other subjects.

4. AMLASH '3: In response to a request from Wil'SA'CI

(Tansing) we brought up the subject of ANLASH'3.

In summary,

AJWHIP did not have anything to add to his ploture of ASLASH 3

that he has not already discussed previously with N. Sanchez.

However, for the record

we will Include a summary of our con-

versatlong

concerning AlLiSH'3.

ANAHIP I anted he had known

---

## Page 4

14-00000

4

AMLASH '3 for many years,

(since school days) but did not

consider him to be a close friend. He knew AMLASH'3's

family as he had sold jewelry to them from time to time

during the Batista era in Havana. AWHIP'I believed

AMLASH'3 had been associated with the University but had

not actually been a bonafied student. He knew nothing

else about AJLASH'3's educational background. AMLASH'3

had known kaif 1 for 10 or 12 years. It was the opinion

01 AWHIP I that ALASH '3 was "100% loyal to AmMe,"'

It further stated that aside frow his rather strong interest

in liquor and attendant belligerency when drunk, AMLASH'3

was not open to corruption through financial inducement

or other material rewards. He stated that AMLASH 3 "*s VIng

ready rather involved with Ahip", and his plotting, aad

acted as driver.

* dive recent caching of arms by AMLASH/D 1n

warehouse outside Havana.

according

to ANWHIP 1; ExBax*kASH*;;has become extremely nervous as

result of his participation in the ALASH planning and has in

fact, recently resigned his position a

He

wants to return to the study of medicine and to complete his

work for an HaD. degree, He pointed out to AlWHIP '1, and he

agreed with us, that such action would not particularly serve

to add any protection to

position, but possibly would

merely call nore attention to biltthien.)

le attempted to explore the details of ASLASH 3's re-

crullment for subsequent dispatch to Spain by the DSI. AIWHIP

4100

---

## Page 5

14-00000

5

sated that he had given this information to, he believed,

both "Nick" and to Growery in Europe. He knew the man who

nad secuited Blanco in Cuba as being a notorious DSt

operator. He could not recall the ur but stated he had

provided it before on a previous occasion. He did not

know any of the details of AVLASH 3's activation in ladrid

or of his contact with Luis Manuel CANTILLO TOROIC. ANWHIP

¿ sald he was avare fif nly of the fact that ANLASH? had

& been in the company of, "Luis Nanuel". ANNHIP'1, however,

offered to ellelt as much information as possible about the

AMLASH '3 CANTILLO relationship. He asked for a briefing or

• list of questions prior to his next meeting with AMLASH '3

in Europe.

In discussing the loyalties of AULASH 3 and the re-

sultant security implications for the AULASH operation,

AWWHIP stated (see above) that he was absolutely certain

that AMLASH 3 would never intentionally reveal any thing

to anyone which would jeopardize AULASH 1. (Case Officer

Comment: In discussing Security ramifications of AMLASH '3'g

knowledge of the AMLASH I AUBIDDY relationship, teh in the

light of his DSI assocations, It could be concluded that since

AMBIDDY is now tied closely to AULASH 1, AULASH 3 will also

protect AUBIDDY.)

During the discussion of ANLASH 3, NWHIP 1 expressed

mild amazoment over the fact that we continued to doubt A 3'g

bonarades when ALASH 1, who had lu, lead in doblock, lad

enough confidence in the man to includo him some some of his

most compromiains actlittles. To sumartee our posieson 1u

---

## Page 6

the atter an me discussed it at leagth asth Alie

pointed out that his assessment of ANLASH 3 was probably

correct, bat that we must, la the interest of slying

AULASH 1 maxinum protection possible, moment täke the

pessimistic view point with regard to all of AMLASH a

ssociates,

32242a

but even sonewhat pleased with this approach und relferated

his willingness to obtain whatever information was necessary

about AMLASH 3 or other associates of AMLASH I.

5. AHIP I was leaving on the isyth 15th for. San

Juan, Puerto Rico and will return to N. Y. the evening of

| ..

the l8th or the morning of the l9th of January. He will

get in touch with "Nick" or the undersigned at that time

for further Instruetions.

в....

The undersigned checked with N. Sanchez at Hgs;

to ascertain whether XINX there als any lurther requirements

for ANHIP or additional developments in the operation which

could be serviced in N. Y.. ' There were none.:

"The undersigned

returned to Mashington, D. C. the evening of the lath of Jan.

• 7.

Security: There we no incidents of a security.

nature to report during this meeting:

cigar

---

