# 104-10052-10015

## Page 1

110470052-10015]

TO

DISPATCH

Chief; it Division

CLASSIFICATION

SECRETA

PROCESSING ACTION

MARKED FOR INDEXING.

INFO.

DESENSITIZED

FROM

SUBJECT

Chief of Station, Mexico City

per BoN 43-43

tiNAr Progress Report /August, Seotember, Octouer 1963

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCE

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED DESK

CAN JUDGE INDEXIA

CRO FILIO

-AN. fum

AS X

op?

Le

Ref:

HMMA-22029

Action: for your information

ABD

The following

section V, paragraph 2 (d) (1).

report is smitted in accordance vith CSFHB-F 52-0-1

A.

EXPLOITATION OS LEADS

LIFEAT/Cuban

In the course of the reporting period LIFTAT

coveree two tarzets of ZRKNICK interest.

One of these lines ves considered

productive of operational leads but vas tenporarily discontinued for operational

Coverage of the second line was terminated for lack of production.

The only lead produced from this line was repoited on in EiMA-22164. LIFEAT has

cortinued to cover two lines in connection with the AlStrue operation.

The

product of this coverage is of intarast to Special Affairs Staff and IMTAVE and

the tele is forvanded veely to these customers.

Recently this particular

coverage has provided information of interest on the relationchios within the

fanily di Fidel CASTRO end the continuing dssorioration of these relationships.

Coverege of the home phone of a Chen official was instituted at the rechest of

a. Speciel Affairs Stadf offices to support the sensitive AROd operation.

(2) LIZZI/Goviet

LIThAT contumed its coverage of the home phones

of two lion Soviet intelligence officers.

Profuct and use continucs as reported

¿in reforense.

•Coverage of one of these

lines was discontinuel during the recent

sidence frou lerico of one of these targets. This coverage is now being re-

instates.

3

LIFEAT/POlis?

Recent LIzAT aromation fron coverage of this

target has indicato? that a senior

official in Mexico is contricuing an

adlair with the rife of another Polisy ofticial.

The IIFENT lead was the basis

for further Station ection in this case. ILl has increased its coverage in

support se tols possible future recruitmens attenpt. Also in the Polish fleld,

LInDA provided coverase of a suspected Felich illegel residing in Mexico.

(constrad)

1521049

Remove from Proteet -DhANGO

cs Classification: 56.6-3=

Distribution:

JOB + 77-175177

RECORD

COPY

Box: 30

Fold:

CROSS REFERENCE TO

DISPATCH SYMBOL. AND NUMBER

DATE

CREEP 1

Exciated from zutemanc

RS14-22556

CLASSIFICATION

seclasshicatier

SPORT,

29 Novenbor 1965

HOS FILE NUMBER

1 50-5-72/3

02785

---

## Page 2

14-00000

CLASSIFICATION

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

DISPAl.

SYMBOL AND NO.

HMM1-22536

(+). LIFHAT/Czech

LINZAT activity in this area has been limites

to coverage of the home phone of a Czech intolligence officer.

to date little of operational value has turned uy on this line other then bio-

sraphic data of interest.

(5) LIFEAT/Exile

LIFEAT's continuing coverage of ESLARD-1 has pro-

vided information of interest to KUSARK on E-l's planned travel and the delays

to that travel as well as his fiture type and place of enployment.

Coverage of

provided the lead on which the recruitment of LICETO-1

was based. I-l was recruited as an access agent to

for possible future

recruitment attempt of her.

Inis coverse has also enabled this station to

advise another Station of the possible susceptability to recruitment of a

Communist from the country of concern to that Station.

(6)

In addition to the

coveraze mentioned in

pararraph 1.A. (5) above, coverage of a member of the PCM

has yielded good infornation on the pro-Chinese/pro-Soviet

infighting in the PCM as well as target analysis information on various PCM

officials.

(7) LIFEAT/American Communist Group in Mexico (ACCM) The inforration

provided to the local ODENVY office from the coverage of

has been evaluated as valuable

by: that office. It is particularly useful in covering movements of American

leftists and. Communists who travel to Mexico and frcquently on to Cuba.

(8) LIFEAT/Miscellaneous

LIFEAT coverage of a former SMOIH agent

is of interest to SMOIH, Headquarters and the senior ODYOKE officer in Mexico.

This and the coverage of a related line enable the interested customers to main-

toin a check on the former SMOIl agent's activities which are against the best

interest of PBPRIME.

B. PROCESSING OF TAKE

No change.

1074

57'380

LIFDUD-I has managed to estand his "cormission" as investigator of personnel

See SECURITY section belowe

During the reporting period special drug vas provided by Headquarters for

the treatment of a child of LIFEUD-5.

This drug was not available locally and

LIFEUD-5 was most, grateful for the assistance of his "friends" in obtaining this

materie

D. LIAISON

No change from previous reports.

B.

SECURMY

LIFEUD-l's efforts to extend his investigative conmission to cover employeas

02 the

This greatly increeses the

security threet to the LIFEAT

and centrol man when working on installation;

repair or renoval of lEJAT crosses.

This latter can not be fully negated since it

is now apparent that in his retired

status LIFEUD-]. car never provide the personal back up protection to these LIFEAT

personnel

that he could prior to his retirenent.

Although the risk inherent in

• LIFEAT tipe operatior:

can not be coupletely eliminated,

it is delt thet it

32a be reduced to a wozzable level.

The coverage of the Yugoslar Babassy lines hes beal assumed by LIvor.

Thisrefore LIFEAT will not have to run the

particular risk of re-estaolishing

the necescarily complicated

"jump" fron one central sone

to another that alerted the telephone company crew to check the tap line routing

•i this coverage described in parseraph to oi relerance

ust freulous eutron,

: REPLACES FORMS

51-23. 51-28A ANQ 5m

SECREDY

WHICH ARE OBSOLETE.

CONTINUED

THO

Excinnal-tras antamahc

---

## Page 3

14-00000:

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION

SECROE

DISPA

SYMBOL AND NO.

HN2IA-22555

SECHNICAL

No change

from previous reports.

separate lines.

The coverage provided by LIFEAT during the reporting period totaled 24

A breakdown by terget is as follows:

1.

2.

3,

5 and 6. Polish Embassy and Comercial Office

7.

and 3;

AMSTRUT Operation

9.

Home of a Cuban Commercial Attacne

10.

Home of s Czech intelligence officer

72.

and 12.

Homes of suspected Polish IS agents.

13.

15.

and It.

Tarrets of ZRKNICK Interest

and 16.

and related line

11.

and 13.

and related line.

19.

Suspected Czech IS arent

20•

21.

22.

23•

24.

3.

During the reporting period a number

of menorands: were prepared by the

Station for passing to local ODACID and ODINVY based in whole or in part on

LIFEAr provided material.

Further, the following HMMs were based

on LTrEAT provided information:

HNN-7574

HMM-7576

HMM-7596

FN1-7597

HMM-7503

HNM-7618

IM4-7634

HAX-7643

IA1-7654

ENX-7667

H041-7676

HIN- 7659

1124-7692

H-M-7721

HMM-7727

H021-7732

HMM-7746

HMM-7797

HMM-7798

HMM-7802

IMM-7825

HMM-7826

HMM-7S58

HMM-7854

HIM-7857

HMM-7875

HM1-7979

HNM-7893

HAI-7900

HMM-7922

HMM-7952

FÖLM

1057.530

(40)

S200P T

Ereluded Ironi sutomanc

caregradine cnt

USE PREVIOUS SDITION.

REPLACES FORMS

51-24, 51-ZBA AND 51-29

WHICH ARE OBSOLETE.

CLASSIFICATION

SECRO)

50-6-32/3

PAGEINO.

CONTINUED

---

