o4-0229-10074

10 April 1962

NPMOMOXM FOR THE RECORD
SUBST: Meetings with Miro Cardona and on 5 and G April 1961

1. On Wednesday, 5 April 1961, Miro Cardona acccupanied by Hr.
crme to Washington for a moating vith Mesare. Berle, Bonoal, Schlesinger and
Bovles. and. Droller were briefed by Kiro Cardona on this nesting in
tha late afSerncan:cf that Cay in the Ghoroham Hotel suite.

&. Kiro, who camo to the Droller| meeting accarpanied by Carlos
Piai, was mich dapresseds He said that Berle ond his friends seezed to
proncty a “Fidoliamo ein Fidel” lines thoy ara all the way to tho loft
Kiro stated, adding that during tho conversation Kay's nazi was mentiuned
eleven timeo in highly lauddtory terma, “I know I wuld have a crozs to
bear when I asked Ray to join the council," Miro said, “now I os convinced
that tic 40 a very, very heavy cross in deed." When Droller remarzed that
it might be wig not to read too much into the staterants meds by Hr. Berle,
end that after all the postures of a future Cuban Goverment would be a
comistaly Ciben ‘affair, Miro locked at Drollor with a twinkle in bis eyo aad
said, "Co rot vorry, once I have my foet firmly on the ground I ncw previsely
what Reals to be dones up until then I make a 180 degree turn end I ex
more le%t than thoy are.” Hiro then advised ond Droller that Mr.

Berle had suggested that he, Miro, get toyether with Mr. John Plant-~
Political Sciantist at Harvard--for the purpose of having the latter aselet
hin in drafting the proclamation of the Kevolutionary Cuumcil. Acccruing
to Niro ha was rathor like varm to the proposal and said ha would see if

be nental the chap's services.

3. Miro advised that another campletely private mesting had bean :
echedulai for him by Mr. Berle on the afternoon of 6 April. eseees

a. Im the evening hours of 6 April and Droller met again with
Miro for the purpose of: :
a. Obtaining Miro’s report on the aforenontioned mecting with
Mr. Berle, and

b. Briefing Miro on specific publicity lines Miro vas to taka
quring the forthcoming weeks,



5+ Miro advised that again Hr. Borlo had taken the "Ray line” but that
in viow of hi, Miro's, plyability tho meting had been very friendly. Accord-
ing. to Miro; Mr, Barla-had egain stressed tho fact that it woull be highly
dooireble for the Cuban Revolution tc etart inside the ccuntry rather than by
on invasion. In this connection Miro said he requested an ansver from Berla

“ea to whother Cuben troops would be. sippurted by the U.S. Kr. Berle wanted

to Bide a ‘this question but Miro.eaid ho was pressing Mr. Berle asaing him
esyain and again, “Ara wo"cothg to bo alae or not?” At that tims Berle io

allegedly to have told Miro, "I give you my vor of honor, you will act be alone.”

After having relatei the above to Preller ant Miro locked at Dreller and
said, “I nov have Berlo's word of honor, but Ineed Bender's ossurances as
well.” After scue mamonta of nilonce, I snid the following: Many things
would depend on specific situations at esy given tine; clearly the question was
not so mich one of asgurances of cosa tnant of Mariues but one cf devising
proper techniques vhich waild asoure the desired effects, Mire a5 @ Cuban
patriot had to think primarily: cf Cube, but I wanted to asaure hin thet the
“T—Ui6. interests and oiaken in Cuba and tha Hemisphery were as great or even
greater than thoce of Hiro. Clearly, I said, the U.S, docs act Intend to
became the losor-in this striggle. Hiro auiled thonking ma for my vievo,

6. Miro thon continuod to relete that during hio meeting with Zerle he
bed eked eseurances for three typos of finonaial eupport:

a. A omall credit for imediste Revolutionary Council use.

b. A disner credit to be used during the actual atriggie neta
Cuba for the purchase of medicine, fool and other necessary reconstruction

measures, ond .

c. A big “elobal credit” which is viewed by Miro aa sn engential
measure for putting Cubn buck on ite feet econaically after the wer-
throw of Castro, According to Hirs, Ii. Berle mate no commitment except
to say that tiese matters were unter consideration.

7. Hiro then infvred us that Borle aed sugcested that hy ani the Council
go to Nav York to tae cuch steps ao necessary to cive a rebuttal to Kaul Roa's
10 Apri speach before the United Nations, In ecunection with the lest point,
end Droller briefed Miro ea followas

a. It is desired that Miro mest the pres prior and after Heil Roata
anticipated speach before tha United Wetions General Assembly. Miro should
let Lem Jones associates arrange the tecbiival details for these press con-

ferences.

en



“gudiencea} Fidel Castro will be labaled a camter-revolutionary; the Rovel~

-3-

b. The proga conference prior to Reul Koa'a speech ahold tara placa _
on Btituntay 6 April. At that tine Miro should annunciate the political,
@vcnimle and social postures cf the evolutionary Councils using tie Castro
Gwerment's past and quvent cine a8 a backdrop for hie renarke, Miro 18
expecta’ to scunlia clericn call primarily directed at Latin Amorican

uticnary-Council's objective will bo a recapture uf the basic yoalo of the
revolution; the 1940 ceastitution--a very libernl dociment--is considered to
Provide adequate anovers tc the probleno vhich are facing Cuba todays sono
‘themes conveyed to Hiro by Neasro. Rerlo, Schlesinger and othes vill be surfoced.

i ¢. The preas conference which is to follow the anticipated Aca
‘speech before the United Nativns Goneral Aaseully 19 tumtatively scheduled
for 10 April 1941 (Ginve Roa may not speak before Monday, 10 April, lawyer
Hiro vante to have a transcript of the spocch om hand before mekiny his
rebuttal.) Details of this rebuttal onanot be pinpointed at this momant;
however, it would de essentinl that the themes cited in the attachront would :
de injected into Hirota and his colleagues! utteresices at that time and at H
ony other tims thoy vould be mooting with the press. :

Miro expressed full ogreamant and the moting wes adjourned,

8. On 7 April 1963 Miro wont to ow York to work on the nforewanticned
conforunce. la gave en intarview to the Naw York Tines correspondent (attach
mont C) which reflected tha guidance givea to Miro the provicus night,

9. Or 8 forth Mize oat te Revelutiowiny Council huld a press cuufereace
at the Hooowvelt Hotel which was highly cuccossful, !

GERALD DROLLER
Cc, wi/u/Pr

Attashmonts: (3) 7 :
2. Quidence for Miro H
2. Yow York Times Article af & April 2
3. Declaration of tha Cuban Revolutionary Council

