# 104-10226-10027

## Page 1

104-10226-10027

4P

Chauf, iHo

Chief, JiAVE

300.1p/ Oporational

UFGA 3513/33

HE TANAN

O Operational dostel Undiat "evolucionarto (UR)

MICROFILMEO

Action "equerd: a) Tor intormation and poSSOL MAR 2Y 1852

b) Carding and indezing

DOC. MICRO. SER.

10

On 12 March 1962 CanE1az0 CASAMAYOR Alonso (hereináiter reforrot to

as the source), Alien insistrition munber A 12891743, born 29 July 30

Habana, was Intervieast, la Hand a:dress 1a 237 In let streat, Apto

15 colophone on shich he can be reaches 373 9950.

2.

Sourco Bali that he was a nember of Untuad Revolucionirio (UR) and

that he was in touch sith

the canaril 600r 12495.

of the Un sto te ettil inside Cuba. Before loaring Cuba LOPiz tolil the

arshving

source that on arrag in the United Statas, he should try to make contaes

with either

or Frank Eolsito as he, Lops, hai contact sith

borh men in Caba and had croperated with them. LOPt told the source isat

he and the organizz son, the UR, needed plastic explozives and gerander.

He also sali that the la la collecting information wrich will be ready for

trananittal on or atoat 20 March 62.. This in'ormation incluies diagrases

of tho Shell and Standard zultrure refinerses in babana, a liar of Carlo

and O 2 members, and elipping information on all Cutan ports, showing

tha dito the re:sals arrive, dats of departure, and the tientity of the

cargoe

36

The source said that LOPEZ can be reached in the follo.ing ways:

a. A mailine aidress 13

Fabana. The telephone number 18

This

18 the home of LOPEZi ralaiives, and that they can get in touch ith

LOPE quickly.

Do LOPEZ Ilves al dorol

Vedado. Anyone wishing lo mike personal contact should use che following

phraso for bona Picas, "I come on the part of MIX CAsuitor".

ES COPY

14-120-760

---

## Page 2

Page 2

• The telophone numbor fur tha

4. The source gald that other mithous to contact LOPEL aro as followe:

a. A Salvadoran diplonat, Jesus Valancia, 10 still Ilving In Habana. Ha house

on Malecon and "J" atroots 18 under the protoction of the Siles, and à Siles flag flies

over the house, but 1t 18 unzuardod, and people can enter and leave freelye: LOPtI

and Valencia are in contact ant the lattir 19 willing to help in any way aud has done

so in the past, Valoncia lo also In contact with reprecontatives of the Italian and

French Embassios.

b. LOPE: can be reached through Justo ZAYAS and Lula SANCHEZ, 2339 SA 17th Ave.

MIamI, Jolephono HI KARX 40969 who use the Xiux "

an Amorican Airline as a corso channel

Into and out of Cuba.

So LOPEZ told the source that he has aceusa to fishing boata which can be used to

bring explosives into Cuba... He said that the boats are duly uthorized fishing boate

which have the necessary papers 40 fish in Cuban waters and return to their Cuban porta.

6. The source described LOPEZ as being 40 li years of age, short, wears gil

glasses, no moustache, and has brown hair, combed back. He works in the fort of

Habana,

but bocause of Cuban

governant custon rogulations, obvlating the secesalty for such work, he will soon

be unemployd.

?. Tho source said that the UP. and the 30 of November group are now working together

Inaldo fuble die sa1t that durlng the frst part of February 62 the li amused a

G- 2 car outside the Arenal theater in liabana, killing 2 G- 2 men and losing one in

man. he sald that this type of oporation, ambushing cars, appeals to the UR and

for this reason LOPEZ 1e particularly desireous of obtaing hand grenades. He said

they would Ilke to ambush a Sortet or Salellite car, and raise terro anong tha

Soviet and Satellite technicaine in Cuba®

8. The source said that he ia told that the UR has several amall groups in the

Sterra Escarbray mountains, but that they faght only a running action. Be said

that Ogvaldo RAMIREL is la the Escambray also, but that he refused to jolo arp

group or movement and mainiains his independence.

9 The source Identifioi the Lollowing as On 2 agenta:

---

## Page 3

14-00000

page 3

n0201

T.6064

a Rolando de TiRrAs Botancourt orCallo Labrado 227, Guanabico.

He 18 an employus of l- 2 ani worke in a bani, li Habana locatad at the

oacher of Fabrica ant Concha streete.

CALIBA

Do Rumborto CANTo (ernandoz) a sergeant in tha traffio police.

Ho l1vos Inaloparto Santo Suuroz, liabana. Jie brother das an Ambassador

to. Costa Rica during the time of Batista.

Source knew CANTO in Caracas

Juring the tima of the Cuba Royolution, and that CANTO has since embraceo

Communiem®

20.

Tho source said

that rationing cards exist in Habana, and said that

separate ration cards were issued for varlous items. Thore is a card for.

neat, one for lard and buttor, and: nother entitled IVarlos" which was the

card for toothpaste and items of this nature.

He said that' on the bottom of

card there were spaces for the various months and on receiving the month'a

quota, the respective month was punched. The bearer of the card mist also

show that his rent for the month was paid before he can buy his ration. He

explained that the reason these cards are rarely seen outside Cuba is the

sast thit it 1s Issued to a household, and it 18 generally left bahina to enable

the manhan remaining nembers of tha household to continue receiving their

rationg.

11-

Source wag

was a printer by trade sald that P. Fernandez, a "abana

printing firm, had at least tes two locations which he knew of. One is

on 0015po Street entro Marcaderes y San fax Inacio; the other on Sanja

entre San Francisco y Hospital. He estimated the forner had 30 employee.

and the latter 20. He said he hada't passed by the former printing shop

rocently, but as to the lattr, ho said he has never seen any outside

protection whenever he has pasaed 1t.

---

## Page 4

14-218000

Paro 14

12. The source said that he could not return to Cuba legally, la las too

hot, he thought, but he would be able to cooperate in any way he could.

Nalso I. Raynock

---

