7 : RETURN To cla
ra 0g « eit Background Use Only
‘ : ~ DoNot Reproducg

as GS

2 oT 7 ~
REYON! COVER SHEET : SECRET UFG-6800 2f

i
mm are oF menoar

Feo

IMWAVE ee
rT, SUCHARA >

|

"Ne
Margaret R. NANKALL/uta
eee ee

Androw K, REUTEMAN ~ A
TRARGROUNG GATA AnD GOmMETTO

TYPIC
9:

ae ‘
Source: EUQAMBER-4 who spoke with Manucl- RAY Rivero at the
Miami International Airport, RAY hnd requested the meoting to
toll. tho Source that ho“had hoard good things about him and.
about his collaboration with Cubans in the fight against Communken,

RID: Please ‘index,
tweoved fron Projeotd +. Gont—
C8 Claseiftcation: s-7_ 35.5. of

JOB Pod TH ye
tons 7 Potds

Group 1: Excluded’ from
Automatic Downgrading
and Declassification

Badanannen era tens=trayasnaasannsai

i cy, coach to Miami reps. of:

Ste, F.BI,

al oe ee
anh SECRET :

CSicnetemest wo

an ne



FIELD INFORMATION REPORT

GRADING CF SOURCE: A: Cemetery relate Bs Uvusiy rtibla, © Fevty rotate, —_DL-Not unvaty reliable, Mot reléhta. — tAppied
Be sburces of Soutite ones oF WYO", MMgardtens OF Beil Competence). Fe Relatiltycanct be husced {ADgied 42 Unlesied er nsuMeveiy
Tested sources) :
APPRAISAL OF CORTENT: 1: Confirmed by other independent and retiabi¢ sources, 2 Probably tua Possibly true & Doubttul, |S. Probebty
taise, 6 Cannel be miter,
CONFIDENTIAL
CONTROLLED DISSEM .

REPORT NO.

sussect Comments of Hanuel Poy Rivera,” DATE OF REPORT. carte
JURS Leader, on, the sof fuctivenwsss_ 9 March 1965

of Guerrilla Tactics in Cuba _ NO. PAGES 2

' REFERENCES,

pare or 1 March 1985.
io. , United States, Miami - '  UFG-6800

Banat (4 March 1965}

Tab 18 UNEVACUATED mronuation, pounce onapines ine DEFINITIVE, APPAAIBAL OF CONTENT 1B TENTATIVE,

SOURCE: F Z :
: A professional ‘military officer with an extensive career in the
Wminican Argy, “Although Source no longer resides in the
Dominican Republic, he still retains many friends there, . Source
43a trained reporter and his information. has been reliable in

the past.

wy DEIR reat A

Rasen on acetates ag cw bal

2, On 1 March 1565) Manuod’ Ray Rivero,
cionaria Cubana (suae, uban Revolutionary Ju
an 68 group chanod their plans conpletely with respect
to ‘the fight against. Caummunism in Cuba, ‘He advised that the use
of guerrilla tactics under the present regime would he almost
impossible to accomplish, . For. this reason, he gaid, it would be
preferable to begin operating clandestinely in the large urban
‘centers and then slowly expand operations to the rural areas of
Cuba,

2, Ray advised that for the present time be has no action plans
directed against Cubh,

E

_ CONFIDENTIAL .
CONTHOLLED DIssuat’ : wN
+o SEPP ESS CECE
j face
Sane

DISTRIBUTION

é J inte Aspe :

