# 104-10308-10005

## Page 1

104-10308-10005]

CLAGSIFICATION

SECRET

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

UFGA-15954

BABUN and associates held another meeting with CAMEHON on

S'March and made the counter offer of $100,000.00 for ANTHUG-1

and i2, 500.00 expenses payable in advance.

CAMERON promised to

his contacts after returning from a pending trip to

the Caribbean®

On 15 March, CAMERON re-contacted BABUN and associates

and the Jollowing terms were agreed yA HiSTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

A. AHTHUG-1 - $100, 000.00

RELEASE AS SANITIZED

B. AMLOUT-1 - $20,000.00

1998

C. AMQUACR-1 - $20, 000.00

D. Expenses $2,500.00 payable in advance.

the time Init for the operation would be SU days

from the date when BABUN could verify to the satisfaction of

CANERON that he had the $100,000.00 at his disposal for the

payment, and

the contract would only be honored upon presentation

of evidence that AMTHUG-1, AMLOUT-1 OF AMQUACK-1 died at

the hands of the assassins connected with CAMERON's contacts.

As verification, the contacts of CAlERON would seal a list

of names of persons connected with the operation in PBRUMEN

and upon checking should their names be made known or 1f

they could verify their connection with the assassination

within reason the money would be paid.

4.

GOMS7, contacted Juan "Pepin" BOSCH in early April 1964

and

BOSCH agreed to advance the $100,000.00 with the BABUN group

advancing the $2,500.00 expense money.

Although GOMEZ had BOSCil's

word that he would provide the money,

BABUN became sonwhat

apprehensive and had AMCANOEl contact Julio LCBO Olavarria

(201-215813) in New York on 4 April.

LOBO immediately agreed to

the terns providing his name was never involved.

Accordingly,

on 25 April, BABUN gave CAMERON the $2, 500.00

and CAMEroN

advised his group®

On 28 April, CAMERON reported that his group

had already called their man in PBRUMN telling him to proceed

as planned adding that "their other man" would be heading for

PBRUMEN shortly.

Their final comment was "wo hope to have some

good news for you between 20 and 25 May." LOBO and AUCANCE-1

plan to fly to Miami on 19 May to arrange the transfer of the

$100,000.00 to a safety deposit box,

the keys of which will be

held

Jointly by CAMERON and a confidant of LOBO.

5.

The identitles of those persons in the CAMERON grOup

and

how they plan to effect this operation is still unknown.

The BABUN associates are reluctant to make any unnecessary

querles since they have invested but $2,500.00 and it was made

fairly clear by CANiRON at the beginning that the ations ah

involved

CAMERON also revealed during the negotiations that

is contact was a police officer in the st. Louis, Missouri, Vice

Squad who was about to retire from the force and who had numorous

connections in the MAFIA. CAMERON also Iuplied that

"the other mat

In question was in Spain. Because of his position between the St.

Louis contacts and the BABUN group, CAMERON has become soncwhat

nervous about the operation but not to the extent that he would

be willing to compromise it to the police.

AB CAMERON knows, he

could also be indicted for conspiracy and he also knows that

there vas any

treachery on'his part, the BAGUN group would not

hesitate to sink his ship, the MY CAYMAN HOPE.

FORM

5-60

gas it

53a

USE PREVIOUS EDITION.

CLASBIFICATION

SECRET

PAGE NO.

2.

CONTINUED

---

## Page 2

13-

-ANPATCH

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

UFGA-15954

06

6.

This information was provided by

land although

the rest of the BABUN Broup knows that

was a IMHAVE contact for the AMCANE operation, they

are unwitting that he hag been keeping us au courant of the

situation.

We are

forwarding this information without comment

since we have reviewed and have been privy to numerous other

"assassination plans" against ANTHUG-I in the past and none of

these have materialized.

We will continue to forward any

additional significant information on this operation as it is recr

ANDREW I. REUTEMAN

год™ 530

USE PREVIOUE EDITION.

CLASSIFICATION

SAC R97

PAGE":

CONTINUES

---

