# 104-10065-10436

## Page 1

104-10065-10436

Abacinates

TOTAL COPIES

20-2

SECRET

RUN EY

REPRODUCTION BY

OTHER THI

SSUING OFFICE IS

PROHIBITE

STAFF

ADVANCE GOP* ISSUED/SLOITED

ACTION UNIT

AF. FILE

семзь

N

OGC2

Vietan clert. c/ces

Т 369795

EI A909

/ Sel Cop

owds

IN 095925

*PAGE D1

TOR 101553Z NOV 76

43052

SECRET 101508€ NOV

76

STAFF

CITE

43252

TO: DIRECTOR.

RYBAT WNINTEL MISPLASH WOMUSE

• 1, PETE BAGLEY CALLED COS MORNING 1D NOV TO RELATE

→ Wather!

N. Shep

Or pauphas.. ti..

"!..

* Cable a duggest sem to

ODA, SecuK, Cômmo

ото улі

asian.

Trily per

FOLLOWING:

A, MRS, BAGLEY RECEIVED TELEPHONE CALL 9 NOV FROM WOMAN

WITH UNUSUAL ACCENT FROM PARIS IDENTIFYING HERSELF AS CALLING ON

BEHALF OF READERS DIGEST; (BAGLEY DID NOT KNOW WHETHER LANGUAGE

USED FRENCH OR ENGLISH, HE COULD CHECK WIFE.Y

BE PURPOSE OF CALL WAS TO IDENTIFY. TOH. BAGLEY AS ONE

AND SAME WITH "PETE" BAGLEY, THIS IDENTIFICATION PERTINENT TO

ARTICLE WRITTEN BY FNU EPSTEIN, SUBJECT UNDISCLOSED. MRS

BAGLEY DEFLECTED INQUIRY AND DID NOT MAKE POSITIVE IDENTIFICATION.

C. EPSTEIN COULD CONCEIVABLY BE JAY EPSTEIN WHO WROTE

BOOK CRITICAL OF WARREN COMMISSION REPORT MANY OF WHICH CRITICISMS

DEFENSIBLE. EFSTE IN LATER WROTE ARTICLE FOR NEW YORKER CRITICAL

OF JIM GARRISON,

DO BAGLEY TELEPHONE NUMBER APPARENTLY

OBTAINED FROM

LOCAL CHAMBER OF COMMERCE,

SECRET

06357

---

## Page 2

14-00000

= 7.81456, 2176.

CABLE SEC DISSEN UY

_PER..

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED.

ADVANCE _COPY

ISSUED/SLOTTED

ACTION UNIT

RF . FILE .

N

TOTAL COPIES

SECREN"

RUN BY

REPRODUCTION

BY

OTHER

ISSUING OFFICE IS

ST AFF

BY

AT

VR

2

3

ACTION I

T 369795

E1 A909

PAGE 02-02

*TOR: 101553Z NOV 76

IN 095925

43452

E, IF NEW ARTICLE IS BY SAME EPSTEIN AND IS ON WARREN

COMMISSION REPORT OR NEW INVESTIGATIONS KENNEDY ASSASSINATION

BAGLEY'S INVOLVEMENT VIA PDDONOR (PERHAPS PDDONOR HIMSELF COULD

BE AT ROOT OF HIS IDENTIFICATION IN ARTICLE AND HIS TELEPHONE

CALL,

2.

MR. BAGLEY WISHES TO ALERT HOS TO ABOVE, BUT ALSO TA

BE ADVISED OF ANY INFO HOS MAY HAVE ON ARTICLE AND IF HE TO BE

IDENTIFIED WOULD APPRECIATE PRIOR WARNING FOR OBVIOUS REASONS.

3. FILE DEFER. E2 IMPDET.

S

E

R

E

T

---

