# 104-10227-10141

## Page 1

104-10227-101417

47 ictober 1901

MEMORANDUA TOR: A/DOP/A

SUDJICI

Alonthly Sabaldy tayiente for Administrat'"

apport of the cuban devolutonary CouncIl ICAC

1. Ible memoranduna roguess actlon on the part of the A/DDP/A.

do ln September 1961, De. NIRU Cardona, head of the CRC, one

promiaod by higher auborliles lal the CAC sould be provided comember®

lo the seighborhood of 31, 000,000 per year for la basle adminierrative

budget.

*H/A makes the monthly deposita lor this admintetrative support

on or about the lam day ol each mona lor the following mouth, tharelore..

Ibe nos dopool lor tha CAC lor Norember 1901 la due on s1 Ccrober.

3 cur payconto lo dale in FY 196: 1o le CRC for adroloistracive

aupport are ao lollows!

jad 1868 - $151.000

Лад 1961.

150,006

Fop 1968 - 115, 000 lincludes $10, 000 808 A:180'

jarlos factloa for Aug a Sop)

0681961-100,000

Tosal - $536.000

* Possible conideratione for heure monibly paymento for she

CRC are:

A Il we Br0 tO une the predese flocal year sa a baule for

applylag the $1, 000,000 manual dodges lImiinilos los le CRG,

•lace $316, 000 das beca passed lo dato, jAbe, 200 remalas for

eupuont for the CAC los the nen elghs poncho of the llacal year.

rain would amount to a monthly subsidy of $38, 000 los t8e

reminder of the flocal year.

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECRET

.% .

b. Il we conolder that the 81, OuC, 000 annual support

level for the CilL one lo be ollecile after :eatember

(boglaning will a deposit for ictober) on a calendar year

BAOLA, De DATe EIeR Be CAC S100, 600; and, our avorago

monthly paymento lor tae nest levon monthe would be

appronimately. 501, 500.

P'aragrapha a and do above oullao sno considera.

sona of lo CRE monilly paymenso baded on a $1, 000, 000

sannal level. However, thoro appears to be a general

cOnsonous lhas the CRC'e adminisralre budget 1a enceanlve

la vlou of the onrenly lindiod asilvilles of the group and

thas the CaC's adilola ralive support should be dol al a

lower onnunl level than the 91, 000, 000 presently la effect.

a than too 51.0.0

" Elsco the deponle for admiala palive suppore ol lo CAC los

Novaruber 1961 adould be mado mithla the next ler days, your guldasce

In soundred as so lhe amoun of support that sbould be graniedi lor

Shall wo continue at the 31, 000. 000 laval pending

further dlocusslone on thie matter.

Do Shall we cus back to $81, 100 boood on considera.

ilons in ioragrapa d b. abora,

Shall we cur Dach so $38, 000 barod os conaldera-

¡lone lo Faragrapa d. do above.

d. Has there been any docioton made on any osher

anomi for chio deposle?

A Your Immediate consideration ol ad guldance on the monihly

"pport for November and felure paymenso lor lo LRG, no oulined la

¡aragrapa s above, la reguedlod.

r∞..

J. G KING

Chiel,

Viedtern fientophere Diviaion

SAGIST

---

## Page 3

14odoue

SEGNE"

• 3=

as (i7 icrobor 1861)

DDY/#H/4/FJ0aa/

Diatrlbutlons

Orta. & 1 - Addresseo

1 • C/WHD

d = ADCIWHD

1 • C/HH/4

• • ÄN/«, Fimace

1. W1!/4/FA-IFO0

d - WH/#/Plana

SEUNET

---

