# 104-10006-10240

## Page 1

1104-1006-102401-

SECRET

BADGE NO.

FROM: (Requesters name) O

"A.W.BRASKO

BRANCH

TO

RID/INDEX

REQUESTER

RID/FILES

REQUESTER

RID/ANALYSIS

RID/201

RID/MIS

RIO/INDEX

ROOM

EXTENSION

DATE

TUBE

ROOM

DATE

INITIALS

DT - 5

DT. 6

GT. 7

DW - 6

GT - 6

SURNAME

VAKSENOV,

Lyubor'

SPELLING VARIATIONS TO BE

SUBJECT TO BE CHECKED

GIVEN NAMES

Vasilien

NAME CHECK AND CONSOLIDATION REQUEST .

TRID CONTROL NO.

CHECKING INSTRUCTIONS

(nee PRUSAKOVA)

S. atriiiatio

NG DATA (Occupation, sex, CP membershi

tved fosmerly an Lemmasad

SEX

DATE OF BIRTH

PLACE OF BIRTH

RESULTS OF RID/INDEX CHECK

COMMENTS

NO PERTINENT IDENTIFIABLE INFORMATION

CARD REFERENCES ATTACHED

INSTRUCTIONS FOR REQUESTERS

IN ALL CASES

Use gummed label; type or print all

entries.

Upon receipt of index card reproductions

draw a green diagonal line across the

items you do not want.

Edit (use green) the reproduced index

cards to indicate:

(a) cards to be destroyed (mark with

green D and note reason for destruction)

Examples: document destroyed; duplicate

or less informative than retained in-

formation; information of no CS value.

(b) corrections and additions, inclu-

ding Infinity symbol oo when card in-

cludes all facts contained in the

document.

201 CONSOLIDATION

1. Return this form with the card repro-

ductions, also return pertinent documents,

aperture cards and the dossier if a 201 on

the subject exists.

Comet at use to er clue teehe

to be placed in the

(a) • Consolidate into

201-

(b) [ Open 201 file on subject.

RESTRICTION (If any)

ASSIGNESM

YES

OTHER INTERESTED DESKS OR STATIONS

ILE T

Note 1. Records of COI, SSU, OSS and CIG

E KEP•

are in RID/ARD, and those that meet

TRID

I DESK

indexing criteria in CSHB 70-1-1 are Note 2.

Information concerning foreign

carded in the CS Main Index.

If you

public personalities (except mili-

believe there could be additional in-

tary) may be available in BR/OCR

formation of value in these, records,

you must request an Archives Index

x7997.

search.

DATE

SIGNATURE OF RECORDS, OFFICER

---

