# 104-10013-10190

## Page 1

104-10013-10190

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

ACTION

DATER

24-SERT 1964%

INFO:

ACTION COPY

FLE:

CLASSIFICATION

i DEFERRED

PRiORITY

ALE

DTG

TO

OPERATIONAL.

TIALE

XXXX

ROUTINE

IMMEDIATE

MNS

MEXI

Dup fro

2321331 .

2363

CITE I

DIR 519541

NUMBER

RYBAT GPFLOOR

876-897

11 COS WILL RECALL THAT SEVERAL PHOTOS OF UNIDENTIFIED PERSON WERE

HANDCARRIED BY LEGAL ATTACHE 'ÓFFICERITO DALLAS ON AROUD 23 NOVEMBERS

TO ASSISTEIN INVESTIGATION SOON AFTER OSWALDS ARREST AND PRIOR TO

HIS MURDER BY RUBY CROPPED PHOTO OF THIS MAN WAS

TOROSWALD'S MOTHER, WHOEDISCLAIMED ANY KNOWLEDGE 2

2. AFTER OSWALD'S DEATH HIS MOTHER PUBLICLY CLAIMED THE FBI HAD

SHOWN HER A PHOTO OF RUBY PRIOR REPEAT: PRIOR TO THE KILLING OF HER SONE

WHEN'AGAIN SHOWN COPY CROPPED DIFFERENTLY:

SHE STAED IT NOT IDEN-

WIIN THE ONE SHOWN: HER THE FIRST TIME

MODEBECAUSE ORCHS UBLICLE THE WARREN COMMISSION AULLESPUBLISH TAE

COPIES OF BOTH PHOTOS: AMONG, DOCUMENTS KEYED TO ITS SURVEY OF FBI, POST

CRIME HANDLING IN DALLAS. EXHIBITS WILL CARRY NO CAPTION AS TO ORIGIN

DATETAND PLACE TAKEN ECT NOR TEXT•":

A 40 REPORT: TO BE RELEASED 28 OCTOBER WILL CITE THE EPISODE. VOLUME

16 TO BE PUBLISHED EARLY NOVEMBER WILL REPRODUCE ONE PHOTO WHICH WE

UNDERSTAND IS CLOSELY CROPPED AROUND BODY OF INDIVIDUAL®

SHORTLY

THEREAFTER IN EITHER VOLUME 18, 19 OR 20 THE SECOND PHOTO WILL APPEAR

WITH TRIANGULAR PORTIONS CROPPED ON SIDES SHOWING BACKGROUND WHICH

COULD BE CONTRUED AS A TREE OR PORTIONS THEREOF AND SOMETHING WHICH

APPEARS TO BE SOME KIND OF A BILL BOARD.

5 .

OUSLER BEING CALLED TO WASH TO GIVE INFORMED OPINION

POSSIBLE DAMAGE TO LILYRIC OR LIMITED. WILL ADVISE.

END OF MESSAGE

LILyRIC/

CHRONO DUMMY

24/1419

2/x764

sover sure

CYS. TO

мах

SECRET

TION

INCOMING

FILE NO

---

## Page 2

13-00000

DISTR:

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

ACTION:

INFO:

LNHO

DATE:

24 SEPT 1964

SECRET

CLABBIPICATION

FILE:

INITIALE

DTG

INCOMING NUMBER

DEFERRED

PRIORITY

XXX

ROUTINE

OPERATIONAL

IMMEDIATE

INITIALS

MNS

2321352

TO.

MEXI

INFO

2363

C DIR 51937

RYBAT-GPFLOOR

COS LILL RECALL THAT SEVERAL PHOTOS OF UNIDENTIFIED PERSON VERE

HANDCARRIED BY LEGAL ATTÄCHE OFFICER TO DALLAS ON ABOUT 23 NOVEMBERS

TO ASSIST IN INVESTIGATION. SOON AFTER OSWALD'S ARREST AND PRIOR TO

HIS! MURDER BY RUBY,

CROPPED PHOTO OF THIS MAN WAS SHOWN BY THE FBIK

TO OSWALDES MOTHER WHO DISCLAIMED ANY KNOWLEDGE®

E 20N AFTER OSWALD*S DEATH HIS MOTHER PUBLICLY CLAIMED THE FBI HAD

* SHOWN HER A PHOTO OF RUBY PRIOR REPEAT PRIOR TO THE KILLING OF HER-SON

WHEN AGAIN SHOWN COPY, CROPPED DIFFERENTLY, SHE STAED IT NOT IDEN

TICAL THATHE, ONE SHOWN HER THE FIRST TIME are 49

4, 30

BECAUSE OF THIS PUBLICLY THE WARREN COMMISSION WILL PUBLISH

COPIES OF BOTH PHOTOS AMONG DOCUMENTS: KEYED TO ITS SURVEY OF FBI POST

CRIME HANDLING IN DALLAS• EXHIBITS WILL CARRY NO CAPTION AS TO ORIGIN

DATE AND PLACE TAKEN ECT NOR TEXT•

SE4. REPORT TO BE RELEASED 28 OCTOBER WILL CITE THE EPISODE.

16 TO BE PUBLISHED EARLY NOVEMBER WILL REPRODUCE ONE PHOTO WHICH WE

UNDERSTAND IS CLOSELY CROPPED AROUND BODY OF INDIVIDUAL•

SHORTLY

- THEREAFTER IN EITHER VOLUME 18, 19 OR 20 THE SECOND PHOTO WILL APPEAR

WITH TRIANGULAR PORTIONS CROPPED ON SIDES SHOWING BACKGROUND WHICH

COULD BE CONTRUED AS A TREE OR PORTIONS THEREOF AND SOMETHING WHICH

APPEARS TO BE SOME KIND OF A BILL BOARD•

5•. OUSLER BEING CALLED TO WASH TO GIVE INFORMED OPINION OF

POSSIBLE DAMAGE TO LILYRIC OR LIMITED•

WILL ADVISE•

END OF MESSAGE

CHRONO DUMMY

24/14192

1120

SCO

SECRET

CLASSIFICATION

INCOMING

LIMiTED

44-8593

---

