ioorTaa0e| Been

T
1

: ee a
i. Reap
a RIO 7a = - ~
COMIENT
tay Tecnenh & VAR a:
A
Renz,
8: RAD a
DekBreung 7° fon
°F Repreg, Only |
: Cg
oO
ial
: o
on”

i
H oF
i
| oe rey
: Tt
- -«

5 72 BIB - AK Gotu

Elf? ‘

7M 19939, 2- gray 99

: a a
Ad ww
» ”
wo Ld
w
oe ~
oe “
i
ed ore Skat eae Taearae none a
i 143 D214 n Heh 03800 4

we ide TI secret Misty co)


< * f pispaten,

cher, ws
Chief, SR

chief of Station]

STATION /OPERATIONS/REDCAP, o.0°4,)

urigoriy Ye."Geluor and Lostalle Contac!

anoret

12 May 1959
ann we mca
SET Sarno wean

SON EN AS

Kone = for information

BOLING CAN ET NUCH
ar Quanto Ha Dt3R OFAY

1. On & May Grigoriy Ye. Golub phoned Costille for lunch for that day.
Most of the time was spont on polite conversation and no political topics
Golub asked Costille about his hone and family in the
acation plans, Golub mentioned that he was not going to
be able to take a vacation this sumer as he had hoped. When Costille asked
hin why, he. gave the reason that the Anbassador, whoa Golub described aa
still being new'and not quite sure of hinself yet, had told him he wanted
hin to reaain in. Helsinki as he was the only person of officer rank in the
Consular Section, (Station coaments ght be because of Khrushchev's
reported visit to Finland shortly - Tle)

2. Not once during the lunch did the subject mentioned in references
concerning Costille's treatment in the Soviet Union come up,

3. Golub mentioned that he had been in Finland now for about four
years and that he had been enjoying hinself very much and liked Finlend and
the Finns, He eaid that he was glad that he did not epeak Englieh as he
would then probably be sent to England or the United States, which in his
opinion were too far from his home in the Soviet Union. According to Golub,
this made travel home, as well as phone calls, too expensive. When Costille
asked him where he would Like to be sent next, he answered Moscow, He stated
that over three years wae too long to be away from one'e country.

No arrangements were made for the next lunch, but if Golub runs

Ae
Golub usually averages

tree to form, he will be phoning Costille next week.
about one phone call a weeks

Whbhan [bbe

Willien L. Costille

May 12, 1959

Distribution
2-8

