di 2-10462

SECRET.

PERSONAL RECORD QUESTIONNAIRE

PART 11 - OPERATIONAL INFORMATION DISPATCH NO-

FNSTRUCTIONS TO CASE OFFICER

This form must be filled in by the case officer or appropriate authority on the basis of the best available in-
formation. It is pot to be shown to the subject. at

. Normally, headquarters will be unable to issue an approval unless requester furnishes answers to all questions
Ta PRC parts I end II. However, in an emergency provisional approval may be obtained by complying with the ap-
plicable provisions of FR 10-215. paragraphs 8, 12b and 12d. Thereafter the usual method to document or com-
plete the case must be followed as set forth in FR 10-21

_ Three (3) completed copies of PRG part I (including copy ubject’s handwriting, if possible) end two (2) com-
pleted copies of this form must be sent to headquarters as soon 6 possible.

. Data acquired later must be sent to headquarters in PRQ format in two (2) copies.
Fill in all itens, if information obtainable. If item not applicable write "NA." If additional space required
for item, use reverse side of page keyed to appropriate item number.

7 ERYPTONYM 2. PSEUDONYM

Harold R. NOEMAYR

SECTION | CONTACT AND DEVELOPMENT

7. INDICATE HOW, WHEN, WHERE, WHY. AND GY WHOM SUBJECT WAS FIRST CONTACTED OR DEVELOPED.

92
NOBMAYR was first recruited in Panama as (@UDROPATHETIC in November 1918

and transferred to Costa Rica in approved project. Subsequently

has served under the(B}eansaL Project, AMPHODARCH and finally in LISTE.
Je

Do INDICATE WHETHER SUBJECT COULD BE TURNED OVER QUICKLY AND IN A SECURE MANNER TO ANY RESPONSIGLE CASE OFFICER FOR
HANDLING, IF SO, INDICATE TO WHOM.

Subject can easily be turned over to, any KUBARK Case Officer.

S. LIST OTHER CASE OFFICERS WHO HAVE HANDLED SUBJECT OR WHOM HE KNOWS OR HAS KNOWN, GIVE NAMES BY WHICH THEY HAVE
BEEN KNOWN.

Subject has been handled by various Case Officers in Cuba, Mexico, Panama,

Costa Rica, and the J.S.A.

(4+ 20)

FORM NO. 1
REPLACES FORM 51-958
tnov ss 10508 irc cay pe useo. SECRET

apd


“SECRET
SECTION U1 MOTIVATION AND COKTROL

y. ESTINATE SUBJECT*S MOTIVATION, (Be detailed, if possible cite evidence. Do not use stock comment such as “anti-
communist.)

Patriotic - U.S. citizen

Do INDIGATE WHAT CONTROL, IF ANY, EXISTS OVER THE SUBJECT. (If no control, or if there is a Lack of real control

explain. )

Control: U.S. citisen, and therefore subject to prosecution, monetary,

U.S. citizenship pending for wife.

SECTION TUN COVER

1. COVER USED BY SUBJECT AND CASE OFFICER IN THEIR MEETINGS.

Social: Subject is now in direct contact with Oliver R. BYNAM, C/WH/3/Mexico.

FICOVER USED BY SUBJECT IN OBTAINING HIS INFORMATION AND IN CONTACTING HIS INFORMANTS,
Subject will not furnish information. He has a cover employment established by
CCD. He will net work inside KUBARK buildings.

INDICATE SERVICE FOR WHICH SUBJECT THINKS HE (Wil! work) (Is working).

Witting KUBARK.

SECTION IV THTELLIGENCE CONHECTIONS AND TRAINING

TO EXPLAIN SUBJECT’S KNOWN PAST OR PRESENT CONNECTION WITH ANY OTHER INTELLIGENCE SERVICE. INDICATE THE EXTENT
SUCH CONNECTION IS KNOWN OVERTLY.

Received intelligence training hy the Aray.

LIST OTHER INDIVIDUALS (Agents, relatives, Friends) wHO KNOW OF SUBJECT’S PRESENT INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES.
Argentina CORDERS de » wife
Consuelo CORDERO, sister-in-law, residing with Subject
Mario CORDERO, brother-in-law, in Costa Rica
Antonio CORDERO, brother-in-law

3. EXPLAIN ANY TRAINING SUBJECT HAS HAD IN CLANDESTINE OPERATIONS.
Received intelligence training from the Army. He was given covert training by
KGBARK from 5 October through 25 November 1953 and again from 25 March through
7 Way 1957, and from 21 April through 23 May 1958.

SECTION V COLLABORATION POTENT! AL

y. INDICATE OTHER FOREIGN POWER SUBJECT WOULD GE MOST LIKELY TO COLLAGORATE WITH BECAUSE OF HIS IDEOLOGY OR PAST
ASSOCIATIONS. EXPLAIN.

None

2
SECRET


+ SECRET
OPERATIONAL USE - CONTACT

SECTION Vi

+ UAT RUBIECT HAS BEEN USED OR CONTACTED BEFORE, INDICATE ACTIVITY IN WHICH HE WAS ENGAGED AND THE TYPE OF INFons

MATION HE HAS FURNISHED.

In the past NOEMAYR has handled CP penetration agents, reported on Cuban and

other Central American revolutionary activities.

INDICATE HOW AND FROM WHOM SUBJECT OBTAINS INFORMATION.

Will not collect information in the U.S,

3. INDICATE WHAT HAS BEEN TOLD SUBJECT AS TO THE DISPOSITION OF INFORMATION HE FURNISHES,

NA = see 2 above

4. DETAIL SUBJECT’S PROPOSED FI OR CI TYPE USE OR DUTIES.

Svbject's exact duties have not been decided upon.e

5. DETAIL SUBJECT’S PROPOSED PP-PM TYPE USE OR DUTIES.

None

——

1. DETAIL SUBJECTS PROPOSED) TYPE CONTACT OR OPERATIONAL USE:

A+ WHERE SUBJECT 1S AN OFFICIAL MEMBER OF A FOREIGN GOVERNMENT:

NA

SECTION VII ae PROPOSED(LIAISOK) OR SED(LIA1SOW) OR OPERATIONAL ACTIVITY

8. WHERE SUBJECT 1S AN OFFICIAL MEMBER OF AN ODYOKE AGENCY:

NA

SECTION VIEI AGENCY RELATIONSHIP WITH SUBJECT

1 TER SOnM NATURE OF AGENCY RELATIONSHIP WITH SUBJECT: 1.£. TRAINEE, OPPOSITE NUMBER: REMUNERATION, IF ANY.
PERSONNEL KNOWN To SUBJECT.

Subject's Career Agent

/ 3
Zz Ipy SECRET

AGENCY



- . : SECRF* 7
QUALITICATIOAS FO GTKER OPERATIONS :

TAL AWILETICS, TALENTS, OR QUALITICATIONS POSSESSED BY SUBJECT HICH CoULY CoNczIy pe
OPERATIONS.

make conta:

Booby PRuRO Le 16 eA ECT A REGULAR SALARY, INDICATE ime
| COwmaDITIES, SUBSIDY OR OTHER METHOD, SPECIFY AND GIVE DETAILS.

Subject is a GS-12 i

2+ EXPLAIN ANY PROMISES. OTHERWISE NOT COVEREO HEREIN. MADE Yo SuBsECT. (Example: Commitments regarding evacuation
of subject and family.)

He has a written comtract

SECTION XI CE AND SECURITY
}. INDICATE THE FIELD AGENCIES AND FIELD FILES WITH WHICH SUDJECT*S NAME HAS BEEN CHECKED AND THE RESULTS.

All checks have been completed in past. Ho derogatory information.
No new name trace is being conducted.

2. INDICATE OTHER INVESTIGATIVE MEASURES TAKEN TO VERIFY BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION FURNISHED BY SUBJECT.

See #1 above

3. INDICATE WHETHER OR NOT PROVISIONAL OPERATIONAL APPROVAL OR OPERATIONAL AP- 4. DATE APPROVAL OBTAINED.
PROVAL FOR SUBJECT'S USE HAS BEEN PREVIOUSLY OBTAINED.
CSA 3 daly 1957

EVALUATE SUBJECT'S CHARACTER, RELIABILITY AND SECURITY, CITING EVIDENCE WHERE POSSIBLE.

Subject has never been involved in any breaches of security.

L —
}S- EXPLAIN ANY SITUATION OR INDISCRETION IN WHICH SUBJECT MAY HAVE BCEN INVOLVED WHICH MUST BE EVALUATED FROV A
| CE/GPERATIONAL’ SECURITY VIEWPOINT.

has been involve
. He vas

S arranged out of col

SUBJECT’S PERS

ETLOY AU



SECTION XIII AVOCATIONAL INTERESTS
1. INDICATE SUBJECTS HOBBIES OR INTEREST IN SPORTS, MUSIC, ETC

Subject has done professional photograchy and writing.

SECTION XIV GENERAL
1. INDICATE WHETHER SUBJECT'S LANGUAGE ABILITIES AND OTHER CHARACTERISTICS, ARE SUCH AS HE COULD PASS AS A NATIVE
OF A COUNTRY OR REGION OTHER THAN HIS OWN. EXPLAIN.

No. Fluent Spanish but too gringo apnearing.

; INDICATE WHETHER INFORMATION IN PRO PARTS J AND II WAS OBTAINED BY RESEARCH, CLANDESTINE ASSESSMENT, FILES,
CORRESPONDENCE OR OTHER MEANS.

Jf OTHER THAN ROUTINE ACTION 1S REQUIRED, IF AND WHEN TERMINATION OF SUBJECT 1S EFFECTED, PLEASE EXPLAIN. (Also

gee para. 43b, supra)

SECTION XV EMERGENCY CONDITIONS RECONTACT ARRANGEMENTS
RECOGNITION SIGNALS, S/W: WHERE COULD CONTACT BE MADE: WHAT BONA FIDES COULD INDIVIDUAL

t+ GIVE FULL DETAILS I.E.
MAKING CONTACT USE?

None

SECTION XVI MISCELLANEOUS OPERATIONAL DATA AND REMARKS

SIGNATURE OF APPROPRIATE SENIOR OFFICER

5
SECRET
