104-10185-10132

‘ : CENTRAL INT:

‘Tou maternal cestitas teiinmation adscung the Nations! Dfense ef
HR USC. Seca 752 and TH Cha Cunenuntaa of revelation “of

SSCRET i i i
x

NO GN_DISSEM
<ountay Cuba xep0aT NO. CSCI-316/00242-64
Ssusct Jose LAIN Martin Gonzalez _ DATE DISTR, 27 July 1964
Zi i: NO. PAGES 2
i REFERENCES .
or 61964

macea& Washington, D.C.
‘EATS ACO. Juty: 1982. FIELD_REPORT NO,

THIS 1S UNEVALUATES INFGSMATION, SOURCE GRAD.ASS ARE DEFINITIVE APPRAISAL OF CONTINT 15 TENTATIVE,

source: A former-Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence
Service until April 1964.

Headquarters Comments of f
RETURN To cia

1, The followiag report is one of 2 series containing personality Backgro: f
information provided by the scurce and includes supplemental Do Not Hs Use Only
information from the records oi this Agency. aa produce

2, It is requested that the addressees take no action on any of the
individuals mentioned in the personality reports without first
checking with this Agency.

Jose LAIN Martin Gonzalez, pseudozym "Jorge," is an officer
of the Direccion General de Intelizencia (DGI - General Directorate
of Intelligence) stationed in Merida, Mexico, as the Cuban Consul. 1,2,3

Headquarters Comments

. 1, Ina report dated 16 April 1964 it was stated that Violeta
PEREZ Aceval, a Cuban wife of a Mexican businessman,
Armia GONZALEZ Beytia, is a good friend of Mireya COUSO,
the wife of Jose LAIN Martin Gonzalez, the Cuban Vice Consul
in Merida, Mexico. Mireya told Violeta that she and LAIN
were Socialists, not Communists. When Violeta remarked
that this was the first step to Communism, Mireya replied that
there is good money in it, but we are not Communists,

SECRET :
NO FOREIGN DISSEM 7
2
: 1
Taig ae a aK Tea BT
REP.CINCLANT __CINCSO = ENS

“UNS, Fe distribution ingicared by “= ".)

CSCI-216 /00242-6:

IWMI:

LCPRSA
eT



SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

-2

ismed report dated 15 May 1964 stated that Jose LAIN Martin.
Vice Consul in Merica, Mexico, has been transferred _
ccurding to the local p. ess LAIN leit Merida

on 17 May 1964,

As ance:
ez, Cubs
Merida,
tur Mexico Ci

AG May 1964 report stated that Jose LAIN Martin Gonzalez

sud nis family arrived ia Mexico City on 17 May isos and left

for dabana on io May 1964, According to a suurce of this Agency
who is a who has reported reliable information =
ior about three yearg, the Cuban Embassy instructed one Mariano
GARCIA to cancel IN's lease and were forwarding money for

his bills gince LAIN had not received his saiary, This information
inaicates t...t the travel was sudden and possibly unexpected,

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DIS: EM
