ACTION: =| (299)
DDO, EA/KO-T4/W)

S ECR ET 2608322 MAR 96 STAFF

CITE basaa

TO: IMMEDIATE DIRECTOR.

SECRET
SENSIND: EO

SECRET

INFO: DCEA/OPE, EYESONLY, MDSX, ODPD,

PAGE 001
260842Z MAR 96

FILE, C/EA,

FOR: LIMIT C/EA|_ |INFO CHIEF/EA, DCEA/OPE, EA/XO

SLUGS: WNINTEL

SUBJECT:

EYES ONLY - FOR c/ex

96

DIRECTOR 700784

ACTION REQUIRED:

OFFICIAL ACKNOWLEDGEMENT |

1.
*TALKING POINTS TO BE USED IN THE PRESENTATION TO THE<JFK>

*<ASSASSINATION>RECORDS REVIEW BOARD.

AMBASSADOR)

THE EMBASSY

STRONGLY

PLEASE INCORPORATE THE FOLLOWING INTO THE

2.
~OREOSE RELEASE TO THE PUBLIC OF ANY REFERENCE TO THE EXISTENCE OF A

For | RELATION.
AND ECONOMIC ISSUES REMAIN UNRESOLVED.

SUCH ACTION COULD HAVE ADVERSE CONSEQUENCES
AT A TIME WHEN A NUMBER OF DIFFICULT SECURITY
IT ALSO WOULD RISK REIGNITING

EARLIER _CONTROVERSIES|

PUBLIC CONFIRMATION WOULD, WITHOUT A DOUBT,
ON IMPORTANT

DISRUPT COOPERATION

COUNTERTERRORIST AND COUNTERINTELLIGENCE CASES.
BJECT OF GREATER. PUBLIC AND POSSIBLY OFFICIAL SCRUTINY,

IT WOULD LOWER THE CONFIDENCE
ABILITY TO PROTECT THEIR IDENTITY AND SECURITY.

3. IMPACT

AGENCIES ||

|IS ANATHEMA TO THE LEFT WING OF THE
POLITICAL SPECTRUM, AND ANY ADMISSION WOULD GIVE THE LEFT NEW

OPPORTUNITIES TO ATTACK
RULING PARTY

OFFICIAL CONFIRMATION THAT CONTRADICTED EARLIER

BY MAKING THE
IN OUR
THE GOVERNMENT DOES

; AS A COROLLARY,

NOT PUBLICLY ADMIT THAT IT COLLECTS INTELLI
DOES NOT ADMIT TO HAVING LIAISON RELATIONSHIPS WITH US INTELLIGENCE

VOIDS PUBLIC ACKNOWLEDGEMENT BECAUSE IT KNOWS THAT

WHICH WAS THE
[AND IS TODAY THE PARTY OF THE PRIME

ANY

MINISTER AND THE LEADING PARTY WITHIN THE RULING COALITION.

SECRET



SECRET

MHFNO: 96-3620327 EO
DENIALS | _ |WOULD BE USED AS A CLUB BY THE LEFT
TO ATTACK| |THE
PRESENCE OF US/ __\ WITH A STATE VISIT BY THE US

PRESIDENT FAST APPROACHING AND DELICATE NEGOTIATIONS
LIKELY TO CONTINUE INTO 1997, THIS WOULD BE A PARTICULARLY
BAD TIME TO OPEN THE DOOR TO ADDITIONAL QUESTIONS ABOUT US ACTIVITIES

AND INTENTIONS

4. ACKNOWLEDGEMENT WOULD ALSO REVIVE OLD
CONTROVERSIES THAT HAVE LARGELY RECEDED FROM THE HEADLINES.
THE PRESS MADE A MAJOR ISSUE IN ITS
FORMATIVE YEARS. ANYTHING THAT LENT CREDIBILITY TO THE STORY WOULD
BE A SERIOUS POLITICAL LIABILITY THEN FOREIGN MINISTER
|PERSONALLY ASKED AMBASSADOR THAT
THE US GOVERNMENT NOT RELEASE DOCUMENTS ON THIS SUBJECT.
EXPLAINED TO AMBASSADOR CAN DEAL WITH RUMORS AND
EVEN UNCONFIRMED LEAKS, BUT OFFICIAL CONFIRMATION
WOULD BE AN ENTIRELY DIFFERENT AFFAIR, THREATENING TO DAMAGE

BOTH THE CONSERVATIVE POLITICAL LEADERSHIP AS WELL AS THE
RELATIONSHIP. EXPLICITLY IMPRESSED ON THE AMBASSADOR

FOR THE US GOVERNMENT TO HOLD THE LINE AGAINST DISCLOSURE.

THE NEED
—_5. _IN_THE FALL.OF 1995, A NEW YORK TIMES ARTICLE ALLEGED THAT
}HAS SINCE BECOME PRIME

_____\ IN RESPONSE TO THE ENSUING PRESS QUERIES, JAPANESE
OFFICIALS OF THE CONCERNED MINISTRY DISMISSED THE STORY AS
IMPLAUSIBLE. IF THE US GOVERNMENT DECLASSIFIES A THAT
CONFIRMS IT WOULD HAND THE RESS NEW
OPPORTUNITIES TO REOPEN THE ISSUE OF ALLEGED ECONOMIC ESPIONAGE AND
ATTACK THE UNITED STATES AND ITS FRIENDS WITHIN THE

GOVERNMENT .

~

6. DISRUPTION OF LIAISON RELATIONSHIPS:
GO TO GREAT LENGTHS TO KEEP THEIR RELATIONSHIPS WITH US INTELLIGENCE
AGENCIES SECRET. IN THE CASE.OF THE MOST IMPORTANT OF THOSE
RELATIONSHIPS, ALL CONTACT COULD BE SEVERED IN THE EVENT OF
DISCLOSURE AND EMBARRASSMENT. SUCH A RUPTURE IN THE RELATIONSHIP
DEFIES EASY REPAIR. THE SOUTH KOREAN AGENCY FOR NATIONAL SECURITY
PLANNING, WHICH SERIOUSLY EMBARRASSED JAPANESE LIAISON WHEN IT
KIDNAPPED OPPOSITION POLITICIAN KIM DAE JUNG FROM TOKYO OVER TWO
DECADES AGO, IS STILL TREATED AS A PARIAH TODAY.

7. IMPACT ON CONTINUING OPERATIONS: OUR ONGOING COOPERATION
IN PURSUIT OF A MAJOR INTERNATIONAL

TERRORIST GROUP COULD BE TOTALLY DISRUPTED BY DISCLOSURE. EXTREMELY
IMPORTANT US LAW ENFORCEMENT AND INTELLIGENCE EQUITIES ARE AT STAKE
IN THIS COOPERATIVE ENDEAVOR. THE TERRORIST GROUP IS PROBABLY NOT
AWARE OF THE EXTENT OF US INVOLVEMENT IN THEIR PURSUIT. DISCLOSURE
THAT REMINDED THEM OF THE POSSIBILITY OF |COOPERATION
AGAINST THEM COULD BE DETRIMENTAL TO OUR ABILITY TO COLLECT
INTELLIGENCE ON THE GROUP.

IMPACT ON| RELATIONSHIP WI’ AT_LEAST ONE
REDATES THE<JFK ASSASSINATION. > uses; EO

ACTIVITY, EVEN IN THE PAST, OFTEN CAUSES ITO

SECRET

a

WONDER ABOUT



SURPRISINGLY,

9.

10. FILE

D OF MESSAGE

OUR ABILITY TO PROTECT THEIR SECURITY.
COULD FOCUS ATTENTION ON THEM AS INDIVIDUALS.

CL REASON:

SECRET
SENSIND: EO
OLDER
SEE EVEN PUBLICITY ABOUT THE PAST AS SOMETHING THAT

1.5 (C); DECL ON: X1.

NONE.

DECL OADR DRV HUM 4-82.

SECRET

SECRET
