# 104-10120-10472

## Page 1

104-10120-10472

SEGRET

2 1 OCT 1976

ACNORANDUM FOR: Goneral Counsel

ATTENTION

FRON

SUBJECT

Mr. Richard H. Lansdale

Sidney D. Stembridge

Acting Director of Security

Reverend Martin Luther Kins, JI.

Department of Justice Request

1.

Reference is made to your request of 4 October 1976

(OGC 76-5403) in relation to a Department of Justice inves-

tigation concerning the past activities of the Federal Bureau

of Investigation (FBI) which

were directed at the late

Reverend Hartin Luther King-

Reference asked that the office

of Security deteruine through its files the nature and extent

of any contact between the Agency and the FBI concerning

Reverend King®

A search of our files has disclosed nunerous FBI

documents which either mention or concern Reverend King as well

as a limited number of internal Office of Security documents

which relate to FBI/CIA interest in Reverend King•

Forwarded

herewith as Tabs A through j are copies of each of these docu

ments®

A brief description of these documents together with

an explanation of the Office of Security files from which these

documents were obtained appears below:

Tab A consists of both Office of Security

and FLI originated documents from our file on

Reverend Martin Luther King (0S#353 062) and which

appoar to relate to referenced request.

sanitization has been effected on

these documents.

b. Tab B consists of documents taken from the

Office of Security file on Mr. Jsy Richard Kennedy

((05+172 527) and which appear to relate

to refer

enced request.

It should be noted that Ur. Kennedy

was a confidential informant of the Office of

E2 IMPDET

CL BY 010249

OS & 4363/A

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECRET

Securityícirca 1958 through 1969 and reported

to this Offico primarily on matters pertaining

(to /

The docunents within Tab E refer to

The Reverend Martin Luther King, together with

other clvil rights Leaders, and it is presumed

that the substance of the information containec

within these documents was passed to the FBI

through our routine liaison channels. Limited

sanitization has been effected on two of these

documents to delete certain infornation which

is complotely unrelated to civil rights and/or

the keverend King.

c. Tab C consists of a 23 Hay 1967 FBI

study entitled "Racial Violence Potential in

the United States This Summer " which refers

in part to Reverend King.

ahis document was

obtained from the Office of Security file on

Stokely Carnichael (0S#493 507). No saniti-

zation has been offocted on this FBI document.

1. Tab D. consists of several FBI documents

which refer to either Reverend King and/or

irs.. Coretta (neo:

Scott) King obtained fron

Volumes IV, VII, XIV, XIX of the Office of

Security file entitled "Vietnam Peace Drives"

(0S$467 849). No sanitization has been

effected on these documents.

Tab E consists of a 23 August 1961 FBI

document entitled "Southern Conference Educa-

tional Fund" which mentions Reverend King and

was obtained fron the Office of Security file

concerning the Southern Conference Educational

rune, Incorporated (OS 358 151), No sanitiza-

tion

has"been effected on this document

f.

Tab F consists of two FBI documents

from the Office of Security file on Mrs. King

(US$541 487). Both of these documents appear

to be portions of two separate FBI documents--

the first being an excerpt from a 2 July 1968

electronic message and the second being page

five. of an FDI nemorandum identified only by

2

...

---

## Page 3

the nuaber "xY 100-95954." Mrs. King's file

does not contain either of these documents in

their entirety.

No sanitization has been

effected on these doçuments.

Tab 6 consists of a 15 June 1965 FBI

nenorandun entitled "Domonstrations Protesting

United States Intervention in Vietnam and the

Doninican Republic" which mentions Mrs, King.

Cited document was obtained from the Office of

Security file on the Congress of Unrepresented

People (0SA466 698). No sanitization has been

effected on this docunent.

Tab i consists of a 5 January 1968 FBI

nemorandun entitled "Denonstrations Protesting

United States Intervention in Vietnam" which

mentions Mrs. Coretta (nee:

Scott sing- 1n1s

document was obtained from the Office of

Security file pertaining to the Women's Strike

for Peace (0S#356 394) and has not been sanitized.

Tab I consists of two internal Agency

documents and selected pages frou an FBI docu-

went, all of which concern and/or refer to

Reverend King and the FBI's interest in that

regard.

These documents were obtained from the

Offico of Security filo pertaining to the

Black Power Threat (0S*534 051)•

The selected

pages from the FBI document appear to have been

extracted from a December 1967 FBI nemorandum

entitled "The New Left:

Road to Anarchy,* and

the entire document could not be located.

No

sanitization has been effected on these docu

ments®

3. Also attachod hereto as Tab jis a copy of an Agency

dispatch from the JNYAVE Project in Miani, Florida, to Head

quarters, dated 15 July 1966.

This dispatch relates to a joint

Dade County Police Departnent/FBI surveillence of Reverond Martin

Luther King which occurred on 19-20 May 1966 and was obtained

fron the Office of Security file relating to the Peace Center

of Miani (054333 467) •

concerning the surveillance had been provided to JMYAVE officials

in confidence by a representative of the Dade County Police

SPORET

---

## Page 4

SECRET

epartnent, without the knowledge of the File

This dispatch

should be coordinated with the Latin AmeriCa

Division/Directorate

of Operations prior to our showing the dispatch to the Departnent

of Justico.

4. Please note that all of these documents are forwarded

to you on an "on loan" basis and retain their present classi-

fication. It is our recormendation that the Departuent of

Justice be allowed to review the attached documents here in

ileadquarters in the presence of representatives fron both the

Office of Socurity and your Office.

Should the Department of

Justice determine through this review that they require copies

of any of the attached material, additional coordination and/or

sanitization could then be accomplished prior to transmitting

any of these documents to the Department of Justice.

He defer to you as to whether any coordination with

the FBI is necessary prior to showing the attached FBI memoranda

Please contact Mr. Bruce L.

Solie, Chief, Security Analysis Group, extension 7682, when

arrangeronts

for the Dapartment of Justice review of this

material have been established.

MI. Solle will insure that an

Office of Security representetive is present during the review.

5/

Sidney D. Stembridge

Atts

Distribution:

Orig &

1 - Addressoe

1

1 - D/Security.

• OS Registry

1

- DD/PSI

1

* SAG

→1 - King File

OS/ PSI / SAG/

jan (200CT76)

SEC:

ET

---

## Page 5

14-00000

¡ A

---

## Page 6

041: 68-1394

SECRET

15

NAR 1958

MEMORANDUM FOR

SUBJECT

: Deputy Director for Support.

: The Militants: An Up-date on the

Black Power Threat

1. This memorandum is for information only.

2. By memorandum entitled "Threat to CIA by Some

Black Power Elements, " dated i1 December 1967, I advised you of

the results of inquiries with the Federal Bureau of Investigation and

the review of existing materials in the Office of Security concerning

militant "Black Power" organizations and personalities. I specifi-

cally noted those groups and personalities which have expressed

hostility against this Agency and its operations.

3. Since that time additional significant information has

been received which reflects increased activity on the pait of the

militants, coupled with threats for what they have termed "The Bloody

Summer." Although the ranks of the extremists are still proportion-

ately small, their threats of violence must be given greater weight

than might normally be attributed to their small percentage of the U.S.

Negro population. A review of these recent developments is attached

for your information.

4. In addition to the new information on the extreme mili-

tants, we have also noted two scheduled developments for the months

of April and May which will be of interest to you. They are:

a.

Beginning on 22 April 1968, DI. Martin Luther

King, Jr., and his Southern Christian Leadership Conference (SCLC)

will initiate their "Poor People's Campaign" in Washington, D: C.

On that day, Dr. King has indicated be will lead "waves of the nation's

poor and disinherited" into the city for prolonged, disruptive and "non-

violent" demonstrations to demand government action for "jobs or in-

come for all. " He has indicated that his initial cadre of up to 3, 000

EMES CH

Extra?"

C.

SECRETL

---

## Page 7

SECRET

ENES GUY

volunteers will rémain in the nation's capital "until America responds."

In what Di. King calls the "last resort for nonviolence, " SCLC re-

portedly plans lobbying and other action against the Capitol, a shut-down

of all government buildings, transportation tie-ups and school boycotts.

It bas been threatened that if troops are used to quell these actions, DI.

King will call for demonstrations in other key cities of the nation.

As

the campaign escalates, SCLC has indicated it will call in peace groups

to strengthen the program.

Significantly, Dr. King's campaign will begin early

in the announced "International Days of Protest, " 21-30 April 1968,

sponsored by the National Mobilization Committee to End the War in

Vietnam, a group in which Dr. King, Mrs. King, and Rev. James Bevel,

a King aide, have been particularly active. The National Mobilization

Committee is known to include members of the Communist Party, USA,

and other subversive groups.

Present plans for the ten-day Vietnam

protest call for local and regional demonstrations and concentrated

organizing efforts around the country, as well as coordinated protests :

abroad. As part of the campaign, the Student Mobilization Committee to .:

End the War in Vietnam, Students for a Democratic Society, and SNCC's - (

Black Anti-war Anti-Draft Union have issued a call for a national

student 'strike for peace in Vietnam and against racism at home and

abroad, " 26 April. On 27 April the sponsors have called for a unified

demonstration of the full force of the movement with organized protests

and marches in major U.S. cities.

Spearheading the Washington campaign is Rev.

Bernard Lafayette, JI., 27, a member of the civil rights movement

since he was a teenager.

He was an original member of the Nashville,

Tennessee, student movement in 1960 and participated in the much-

publicized "Freedom Rides." As field secretary for the Student Non-

violent Coordinating. Committee, he led voter registration and commu-

nity organizing campaigns in Mississippi and Alabama. His most recent

work has been with the American Friends Service Committee in Chicago

and as director of the Neighborhood Service Project in the Roxbury

section of Boston.

Joining Lafayette in coordinating the Washington

protests is the Rev. James Bevel, who reportedly will direct the "non-

violence" during the campaign. Bevel, it will be recalled, was released

from his duties with the SCLC more than a year ago to become National

EVES ONLY

SECRET:

---

## Page 8

BYEB

Director of the aforementioned National Mobilization to End the War

in Vietnam, the united front organization which includes a broad

grouping of organizations of diverse political philosophies, including

Communist, Socialist, pacifist and civil rights. It was this organiza-

tion which sponsored the 15 April 1967 demonstrations in New York

City and San Francisco and the Pentagon protests of 21 October 1967.

Politically, Bevel has leaned far to the Left. He has vigorously prò-

tested U.S. policy in Vietnam and has called the President a murderer.

Although not specifically declaring himself to be a member of the

Communist Party, he stated on 5 March 1966, in reply to a question

about Communist Party membership, that "every thinking American

should be. " He has also stated: "We here will decide what the Govern-

ment will be when we take over." His wife, also active in the Vietnam

protest movement, was one of the "peace ladies" who met with North

Vietnamese and Viet Cong representatives in Southeast Asia in 1966.

Despite Dr. King's statements the Washington

protests are for "jobs or income for all, " there can be little doubt

the activity will be closely interlinked with the "peace" movement,

particularly at the stage when "peace" groups are formally invited in

as the activity escalates. The FBI has noted that Di. King bas shown

not only a willingness, but even an eagerness to accept Communist aid,

to support Communist causes, to confer with high-ranking Communist

functionaries, and to rely heavily upon the advice and direction of

dedicated Communists with concealed affiliation. It notes, specifically,

that one of these Communist advisors wrote King's vicious denunciation

of U.S. policy in Vietnam which he delivered before the 15 April 1967

rally held in New York City by Bevel's National Mobilization Committee

to End the War in Vietnam (then called the Spring Mobilization Com-

mitbee). According to the FBI, DI. King is regarded in Communist

circles as "a genuine Marxist-Leninist who is following the Marxist-

Leninist line. "

b. Close on the heels of the initiation of DI. King's

Washington campaign, and possibly well-timed with the proposed formal

call for participation by "peace" groups as that campaign escalates, are

the "National Days for Black Unity Against the War in Vietnam, 19-20

May 1968. " Sponsored by the Peking-line Progressive Labor Party

and certain to attract the more militant factions, the protest calls for

nationwide demonstrations "against the war in Vietnam and slum land-

lords. "' The announced bighpoint of the protests is a day of widespread

EYES ONLY

SECRET

3

---

## Page 9

14-00000

SECRET.

work stoppage and demonstrations on campuses and in cities through-

out the United States, tentatively set for 19 May. A potential for

disturbance exists since the Maoist sponsors will have had almost a

month to observe and assess the effects of Dr. King's Washington

campaign.

5. I will continue to keep you advised on significant develop-

ments in this area as they come to our attention. You will be pleased

to know FBI liaison has been most cooperative and effective in providing

this office with timely information about the various domestic militants

and protest groups.

Charles W. Kane

Acting Director of Security

Attachment as stated

Distribution:

Orig - Return to OS

2 - DDS

EYES ONLY

SECRET

---

## Page 10

14.00000

••.:

---

## Page 11

pF6.

2x miller

Here with is the blad

memo you wauted ini

the Kenned, matter.

after you have read

it did like to talk

to se disposit im.

to Crazan

26 ful, 65

coper attached sire t Cagen

FBI (hiaison) this date his allen

---

## Page 12

SECRET

21 July 1965

In connection with another matter, a source of this office talked

to Mr. Jay Richard KENNEDY at his residence, New York City, on 13 July

(Various topics were covered during the interview and have been

reported under separate memoranda.) Following are Mr. KENNEDY's comments.

(not verbatim) concerning James FARMER of CORE which Mr. KENNEDY indicated

should be forwarded in part to the President. In this connection, it should

be noted that the source made it specifically clear to Mr. KENNEDY that he

nad no access to the White House

or any channel to the White House, but

that he would report Mr. KENNEDY's comments in his usual channel into his

own particular office within the Agency.

Mr. KENNEDY pointed out that James FARMER, who is head of CORE, is

the number one target of the Maoist Communists and that by target Mr.;

KENNEDY specifically meant that FARMER either had to be assassinated or

and taken over by the Peking-line Communists. (Mr. KENNEDY; stated

that this was obvious since FARMER is the only known non-violence advocate

who is an outstanding anti-Communist and the foremost negro leader who

commands a national following. Mr. KENNEDY stated Martin Luther KING has

already shown his hand by attacking the Administration and advocating a

pull-out in Vietnam (KENNEDY insists that KING is compromised by his moral

background and is probably controlled by Peking-line Communists); A. Phillip

RANDOLPH is out of the United States and is very inactive; Harry BELAFONTE,.

of course, is a Communist and undoubtedly Peking controlled; and Whitney

YOUNG and

Roy WILKINS have no popular grass roots type of following.

made to remove FARMER as head of CORE and where the convention had adopted

an anti-Administration "pull-out of Vietnam" line. (Mc. KENNEDY stated ob-

viously this was Peking-line inspired and the remarkable about-face that

FARMER forced on the convention not only showed FARMER's control and:

courage, but very clearly targeted him to the Peking-line Communists. Mr.

KENNEDY pointed out it must be remembered that while the convention was

going on, Martin Luther KING issued a public statement denouncing U. S.

policy and advocating pulling out of Vietnam.

Further, Mr. KENNEDY commented that FARMER's wife, Lulu, who is a

white woman, had called Mr. KENNEDY from Durham and that Mr. KENNEDY had,

in addition to offering advice, offered to come to Durham at that time. Mr.'

KENNEDY commented he cannot state the exact effect his talk with Mrs.

FARMER had (which is apparently unknown to James FARMER), but it was ob

vious that FARMER's reversing the CORE convention stand followed in the wake

of this telephone call. Further, according to Mr. KENNEDY, FARMER, immedi

ately upon arriving in

New York from Durham, called Mr. KENNEDY.

SECRET

- 2 IMPDET CL B00>422

---

## Page 13

SECRET

Subsequently, according to Mr: KENNEDY, he has talked with FARMER

both before his trip to Bogalusa, Louisiana, and after his return. Mr.

KENNEDY stated that he had asked FARMER about the situation in Louisiana

and FARMER had explained his views in the following manner which is the basis

for the KENNEDY recommendation of passing the information to the White House.

FARMER stated that his problem in Bogalusa and also in other places in the

South is the fact that the poor negro families, most of whom reside in

isolated areas of country surrounding the towns, are subject to terror and

intimidation by bands of white extremists who threaten and actually commit

Furthermore, these people have no means

of transportation and to try to get them to come into town to register as

voters, facing the difficulties of intimidation and lack of transportation,

is a major problem. According to FARMER, there has been no help for these

people until the advent of the so-called Deacons and that the Deacons have

offered assistance and more importantly physical protection. FARMER stated

that when these people turned to him and asked "What can we do?"

, FARMER

had no real answer. According to Mr. KENNEDY, he asked FARMER why didn!t-

he appeal to the President personally since FARMER does have access to the

White House, and FARMER stated that he could not do this now. (Mr. KENNEDY

asked him why he could not and FARMER explained that if he publicly appealed

to the President after forcing the CORE convention to reverse its stand on

Vietnam, it would look like a

"deal" and that he, FARMER, could be dis-

credited because of this. Mr. KENNEDY asked FARMER what

should be made to the White House and FARMER, in substance, replied that

if the White House were to send in either federal troops or federal marshals

to protect the negro voters then he, FARMER, could handle the Deacons. / Mr.

KENNEDY asked FARMER if he knew the leadership of the Deacons and named

FARMER stated, of course, he knew both of

these Individuals and when asked by(Mr. KENNEDY about how many Deacons there

were, FARMER stated that all told they had estimated about 10,000. (Mr.

KENNEDY then said how could you handle the Deacons assuming that you had

federal troops or marshals to help. According to Mr. KENNEDY, FARMER stated

that he would tell the Deacons and their leaders to "cool it"

this point.

According to Mr. KENNEDY, FARMER is somewhat naive politically and

although Mr. KENNEDY has tried to explain to him the Maoist tactics, FARMER

does not as yet fully comprehend them. (Mr. KENNEDY stated it is perfectly

obvious that behind the Deacons is a strong organization force of hard

core Peking-line Communists.

Mr. KENNEDY further stated that the Communists

are provoking violence and also quite obviously they are provoking violence

in an area where CORE is active. Also it was clearly apparent that they

worked against FARMER at the national CORE convention at Durham, North

Carolina.

SECRET

2

---

## Page 14

SECRET

Mr. KENNEDY stated that there is a facade of legitimate, harassed

negroes who are honestly trying to protect other negroes (and themselves)

by defending them by physical means and that these negroes are being duped

and pushed into violence by the Communists. They, of course, do not under-

stand this. Mr. KENNEDY further said that FARMER, himself, does not

directly understand although he may have learned a rude lesson at the

Durham, North Carolina, convention where he was nearly kicked out of his

leadership. In addition, Mr. KENNEDY stated that if the negroes got federal

support and FARMER stopped the Deacons movement, this would leave the hard

core Communists behind the Deacons exposed and vulnerable.

(Mr. KINNEDY stated that it is his intention to meet with FARMER as

soon as possible and go over again with him the matter of the Deacons and

the left wing political maneuvers behind the Deacons.

SECRET

3

---

## Page 15

. У

-т.

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT & GET:

Memorandum

TO

Chief, Security Research Staff

DATE: 7 July 1965

FROM

Chief, Liaison & External Ops Branch/SRS

SUBJECT:

Telephone Conversations with Jay Richard KENNEDY,

5 July and 6 July 1965

I. Set out following is a very brief summary of Mr. KEN-

NEDY's views and comments of recent events, particularly in the civil

rights area.

2. MI. KENNEDY, in the first conversation which was on

5 July, stated that his study of the activities of the various leaders in

the civil rights movement and the positions taken by the various groups

have forced him to the conclusion that there is an almost complete split

in the civil rights movement and that those groups which are militant

and advocating violent action have been captured by the Peking-line Com-

munists. He stated that there is a great deal of information which would

support this contention. Along this line, it is particularly interesting to

note that the Secretary of State, Mr. Rusk, commented that Hanoi had

Alone this me, i

spurned the peace efforts of the United States which, according to KEN-?

NEDY, shows how contemptuous the Peking-line is of us and, of course,

is reflected in the anti-United States policy attacks of the action groups in

the civil rights movement. KENNEDY pointed out that Martin Luther

KING was now linking the civil rights movement to attacks on our policy

in Vietnam and that others were following this trend.

head of CORE,

3. Mr. KENNEDY stated that a few days back James FARMER,

head of CORE, had denounced men appearing in CORE picket lines

3. who

were armed; but KENNEDY stated that FARMER had not followed up this

protest and had not moved strongly after he had made this attack.

4. He stated that all of the Negro groups have a wing that

want; militant action and that these groups are subject to or soon will be

subject to Peking direction and domination.

5. Mr. KENNEDY concluded this long conversation by stating

that at the present moment, it is a certain conclusion that the Peking-line

SECRET

EMPDET CE BYQ07472

---

## Page 16

SECRET

Communists have achieved a "fifth column" in the United States and that

this will be used not only to disrupt and attempt to capture the civil rights

movement, but will be used as a weapon to attack U.S. policy in South

Vietnam, the Dominican Republic and wherever the Peking-line Commu-

nists direct.

6. On 6 July Mr. KENNEDY called and pointed out that FARM-

ER had apparently suddenly moved in a bid to become the top negro leader

in the United States who champions non-violence and anti- Communism.

(KENNEDY stated, that with Martin Luther KING moving toward the Peking-

line and splitting the civil rights movement between militants and activists

and the non-violent groups, FARMER's stand at the CORE convention in

Durham, North Carolina, over the past few days was remarkable. KEN-

(NEDY referred to the New York Times article, page 1, which very clearly

shows that FARMER had reversed a CORE stand against our government's

activities in Vietnam and had successfully led a fight to take CORE out of

international politics and to concentrate that group in the civil rights area.

Further, according to KENNEDY, it should be noted that FARMER went

solidly against such so-called self-defense organizations as the "Deacons".

7. When asked to explain what finally produced this strong

change on FARMER's part, MI. KENNEDY stated that there were probably

a number of factors, but certainly one of the factors had to be the fact that

Mr. FARMER is married to a woman of the white race. Mr. KENNEDY

also stated that possibly FARMER was beginning to realize the splitting in

the movement and had decided the time had come to take a firm position.

KENNEDY

pointed out that he had been urging FARMER to do this for some

time.

8. KENNEDY

stated that he had made several telephone calls

to FARMER's wife and that she had filled him in on the fight in the CORE

convention in Durham, North Carolina, which the New York Times article

covered. KENNEDY stated that it was remarkable that FARMER could

reverse an already determined position by the convention and that he could

take command of the group as he had done. KENNEDY added that this

would probably bring Allan MORRISON in line behind FARMER and would

give FARMER the benefit of the publicity of the magazines that MORRISON

directs.

-2-

SECRET:

=

1

---

## Page 17

14-00000

CFORET

9. KENNEDY; concluded by saying that this hard stand by

FARMER will be very significant, particularly if he continues to hold

this position.

10. KENNEDY stated that he would talk to the FBI concern -

ing this in New York City and would continue to keep us informed.

Morse Alle

MA:jbe

-3-

SEGRET

---

## Page 18

SECRET

str.

8 February 1968

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Security Research Staff

SUBJECT

: Jay Richard KENNEDY - REPORT FROM

-.

1. Jay viewed BEltAFONIE's emceeing of the Johnny CARSON Show . -

last night. Jay said that Sidney FOllIER and Livingston WINGATE at

the prompting of BEILAFONTE went into a lengthy discussion of how

Martin Luther KING obtained his money some years ago. According to

KENNEDY, BELLAFONTE is setting the stage for a future discussion of

this matter when KING appears tonight on the show.

2. KENNEDY concludes that the reason for the discussion of the

alleged source of the funds supplied to KING at this late date must be

because there has been a leak of information and all concerned realize

that probably the FBI is putting pressure on KING to disclose the true

source of the funds.

3. Jey now speculates who leaked the information that he

supplied to us that the funds source was from the Chicoms. I assured

Jay, that no information that he passes to us is given to any source

but an official one.

Cecil C. Tighe

Git like

= IMPDET CE DY00222

---

## Page 19

14-00000

SECKLI

5 April 1968

SUBJECT

: REPORT FROM(Jay Richard KENNEDY

I. (Jay reported that following the assassination of the

Reverend Martin Luther KING, Jim FARMER called Jay for advice.

FARMER claimed. that President JOHNSON by telephoning Whitney YOUNG

and other Negroes of the same persuasian extending the President's

sympathy on the untimely death of the Reverend KING manifests the

belief that the President is misinformed in matters of this delicacy.

FARMER claims that the Negroes are embittered and believe that if the

President had not been spending all of our resources on winning the

war in Viet Nam, this tragic event would not have occured.

2.

According to KENNEDY, FARMER stated that he, FARMER, haa

been in touch with the Reverend FOUNTROY and FOUNTROY stated that the

poor peoples march on Washington which KING was to lead on 22 April

1968 will still be held.

3. (KENNEDY

"said that he had called Bill CONNELL and recommended

that the President issue a proclamation which would make this weekend

He suggested that the President call upon all

ministers, rabbies and priests to concentrate on texts which would

emphasis the need for peace in the world. (KENNEDY said that he also

suggested to Bill Connell that the President extend an invitation to

Mahalia JACKSON to sing Sunday in a memorial service in Washington, D. C.

at the Lincoln Memorial. KENNEDY said that he would be able to bring

SINATRA to Washington at the same time to sing hymns known and loved

KENNEDY: said that today at sundown begins the Jewish

Sabbath and that he had urged Bill CONNELL to request that his suggestions

be acted upon forthwith. (KENNEDY said that he hates to see this govern-

ment reacting to notification that the New York Stock Exchange will Shot

down its trading at 11:00 today and use the time for silent prayer.

KENNEDY said that he also noted that campuses all over the United States

have also agreed to hold memorial services. He thinks that this govern-

ment should be way out front in this regard and not react untimely to

the practices put into motion by the Stock Exchange and the

SECRET

= 22 IMPDET CC B120742>

---

## Page 20

SECRET

EYES ONLY

8 April 1968

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Security Research Staff

SUBJECT

: (Jay Richard KENNEDY - REPORT FROM

for my efforts over the weekend to locate his daughter who was tempor tel

1. KENNEDY called me this morning at the office to thank me

arily in the city and who he suspected may be a victim of the locai

frioting.

2. KENNEDY advised that Harry BELAFONTE was not in evidence

on TV following the assassination of Martin Luther KING on Thursday,

4 April 1968. KENNEDY received word from a reliable source that

BELAFONTE, who is under Peking discipline, was instructed notito be

in the forefront. BELAFONTE has, however, now been instructed to

move in to the home of Martin Luther KING's widow in Atlanta.

He is

now there and will remain until several days after the funeral.

BELAFONTE, Stokely CARMICHAEL and other leaders in the Black Power

structure who are under Peking discipline will hold a strategy meet-

ing in the Reverend KING's home after the funeral.

3. KENNEDY suggested that television on Tuesday will disclose

that BELAFONTE and Robert (KENNEDY will be in the forefront during the

funeral services.

According to Jay, BELAFONTE has sufficient information

of a blackmail nature on Bobby KENNEDY that will result in KENNEDY

reacting as a puppet to Peking direction in the coming presidential

Inther KING, and Mrs. KING have for years been the willing tools of

Cutt

cecil C. Tighe

EYES ONLY

SECRET

= 2 IMPDET CE BY 007422

---

## Page 21

14-000n

SECRET

Waitini

11 May 1965

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Jay KENNEDY, Conversation with

I. The writer had a short discussion this morning with Jay

Kennedy concerning the involvement of A. Philip RANDOLPH, the distinguished

Negro leader, in the so-called "Declaration of Conscience" against partici-

pation in the war in Vietnam.

In fact, this Declaration of Conscience goes

so far as to attempt to get Negroes to refuse to register for the draft

which is, infect, illegal activity and against Federal law.

2. In summarizing Kennedy's point of view, the problem appears

to be something like this. The Communist left is making an all out drive

to get into the Negro movement. If through any mechanism they can link

prominent Negro leaders to illegal activities and activity which is against

President Johnson's policy, this may cause a serious break between Johnson

and the Negro leadership which, in turn, may create a violent disruption

in the Negro Civil Rights Movement which would give the Communists an

opportunity to cause chaos and disruption.

3. Furthermore, if the above is coupled with an exposure of

Martin Luther KING, Jr. by other then members of his own race, the damage

to the Negro movement would be impossible to estimate. \Kennedy is gravely

= '

Kennedy was also concerned that KING might possibly be assassinated before:

how or other Martin Luther KING must be removed from the leadership

Negro movement, and his removal must come from within not from without.

Kennedy feels that somewhere in

the Negro movement, at the top, there must

BELAFONT

be a Negro leader who is "clean" who could step into the vacuum and chaos

if Martin Luther KING were either exposed or assassinated.

4. In summary, Kennedy feels that unless the Negro leaders,

other than KING, are informed and are capable of intelligent maneuvering,

the Communists

or Negro elements who will be directed by the Communists

may be in a position to, if not take over the Negro movement, completely

disrupt it and hence cause extremely critical problems for the Government

of the United States.

E 2UMPDET CL BYQ0712?

Dir or see

and Did Dix of

Pot Allen

SECKET

---

## Page 22

SECRET

EYES ONLY

9 June 1965

MEMORANDUM FOR

SUBTECT

Chief, Security Research Staff

(KENNEDY, Jay Richard

(Conversation with 8 June 1965,

Washington, D.C.)

1. On 8 June 1965, the writer met with Mr. Kennedy at the Hilton

Hotel, Washington, and had a long discussion with him beginning at approxi-

mately 1:15 and ending at 5 p.I. Mr. Kennedy's comments covered a wide

range of matters, but basically they can be broken down into 3 main topics:

(a) His attitude towards the FBI;

• ....

(6)|

His thoughts concerning the writing of a series of books

with the protagonist a CIA agent; and

(c)

Comments on the Negro Civil Rights Movement, the various

personalities connected with it, and some of Mr. Kennedy's

opinions and theories regarding

; future events connected

with the Civil Rights Movement.

unrelated

Each of the above will be discussed separately.

Mr. Kennedy's attitude towards the FBI

2: Sometime back, Chief, SRS, decided that it would be advantageous

to have Mr. Kennedy give information, particularly regarding the Civil Rights

Movement, to agents of the FBI in New York City, particularly if this infor-

mation concerned domestic or local events and activities. Chief, SRS, felt

that it would be a faster means of communication than heretofore used

where

in Mr. Kennedy communicated with SRS officers who, in turn, passed the in-.

formation to either the FBI or areas where it was useful.

3. Mr. Kennedy made it very clear that he did not wish to communi

cate with FBI agents, that the Civil Rights Movement should be regarded as

an international situation because of the Communist directed infiltration

into the movement, and that he felt in some respects that he was being

"downgraded" by being used, as

at Callie by the tBI and not in a higher echelon

SECRET

---

## Page 23

14-00000

SECREI

EYES ONLY

of Government. While Mr. Kennedy did not absolutely refuse to cooperate

with the Bureau, he made it obvious that only if there was a matter which

he felt was of interest directly to the Bureau locally, would he furnish

this type of information; otherwise, he would furnish it as he has done

previously or cease altogether. The writer attempted, more or less unsuc-

cessfully, to discuss jurisdiction with Mr. Kennedy, but Mr. Kennedy main-

tained his position that the matter was not one of jurisdiction for the FBI

or any single Government agency, but was one that the Government, including

CIA, should be interested in; namely, the international Communist efforts

at corrupting and seizing the Negro Civil Rights Movement.

www.zelatsd

Mr. Kennedy's thoughts regarding a possible writing of a series of noyels

aimed at improving the picture of CIA and defending this Government's actions

and the activities of the CIA in support of the Government.

4. During the long conversation, Mr. Kennedy introduced this sub-

ject by saying that he was sick and tired of the poor public picture that

was constantly being presented of the CIA by all sorts of writers, left-

wing and otherwise.

He stated that Government agents were generally painted

as fools and idiots, and that the Headquarters activities obviously were

some sort of super government who acted solely on their own and aten against

the interests of the United States.

He stated that he had read a number of

books such as "The Invisible Government"

, and this type of reporting dis-

gusted him. He stated that he had in mind the writing of a series of novels,.

using a CIA agent as hero, which would reflect decent, intelligent, and

courageous work on behalf of the United States. He stated that the James

write this type of a novel once or twice a year in addition to his serious

work-as a novelist.

•NOTE: Mr. Kennedy's latest novel is about to be published, and he was in

Washington for the American Booksellers Association Convention.

5. Mr. Kennedy stated he was certain that he could handle this type

of writing since he had demonstrated his capacity as a writer, but that he

might require certain technical assistance, particularly in terms of trade-

craft and certain fundamental matters of which he had little knowledge.

indicated that perhaps some support could be given him if it was agreed that

the idea of the novels had merit, and that support could take the shape of

area knowledge, tradecraft, terminology, and perhaps some operational

matters which were not sensitive or classified.

EYES CNIV

-2-

SECRET

---

## Page 24

14-00000

SECRET

EVES ONLY

6.

The writer indicated that the idea had merit and that possibly

he could be given some technical support on a covert basis. The writer

wanted to know who would publish this, or did Mr. Kennedy have in mind any

particular publisher who would publish this if Mr. Kennedy wrote it. (Mr.

Kennedy stated that he was absolutely certain that his own publisher would

jump at the chance to publish this type of novel if he thought Mr. Kennedy

would write them, and Mr. Kennedy was quite willing to discuss the matter

with his publisher, quite possibly during the following evening. Mr. Kennedy

stated that he had given this matter considerable thought and because he

Cap one get care pot at no to sona be stee ta

this connection.

but that he would like to discuss

these proposals with Chief, SRS and other associates.

8. On 9 June 1965, Mr. Kennedy, who was then leaving Washington,.

called the writer and stated that he had talked this idea over with his

publishers and they are enthusiastic about the idea since he said he would

be willing to undertake it, and that, in turn, they would bring to bear all

of their capacity for distribution of literary works. Mr. Kennedy stated

that his publisher is with the World Publishers, Inc., who are, in turn,

controlled by the Chandler interests of the west Coast. The writer agair

thanked Mr. Kennedy and stated that the matter would immediately be discussed.

NOIE: It should be noted that Mr. Kennedy is a thoroughly experienced

writer with a number of books to his credit and is not given to idle con-

versation in matters such as this (see attached) •

Civil Rights Movement

9. For background information, it is to be recalled that Mr.

Kennedy has long provided information on the Negro Civil Rights Movement

and its various leaders. Mr. Kennedy's position is one of complete sympathy

with the Negro and the Civil Rights Movement, but holds that only through

legal means and peaceful means should the Negro aims be accomplished. Mr.

¡Kennedy, who is a violent anti-Communist, has been alarmed at the Communist

movement into the Negro Civil Rights field and the Commnist penetration into

the various Negro organizations.

He has undeniably done everything in his

capacity to help the Negro leaders, particularly James FARMER of CORE.

FIES CALY

SECRETI

-3-

---

## Page 25

SEGRET

EVES ONLY

It is worth noting for the record that Mr. Kennedy has been involved with

various Negro leaders since as early as 1934;-and he has known a number of

the leaders, on a very close personal basis, since that time.

10. Mr. Kennedy's main concern has been that the highly derogatory

Information, of which he is familiar, concerning Martin Luther KING, JI.,

will be exposed to the public by the

wrong people and at the wrong time

mich, in Mr. Kennedy's opinion

years and would perhaps give the Communet ta Chan tets Movement back s-

rupt it or to seize control of the movement.

11. To make certain that this report reflects as accurately as

possible the derogatory information on Martin Luther KING, JI., here are

three main categories:

(a) Highly derogatory information on sexual abnormalities and

sexual activities which have taken place within the United

States and overseas;

• (b) A possible theft of money; and

Association with identified Communist or pro-soviet types

on an intense personal basis, particularly. Harry BELAFONTE,

the Negro actor/singer.

To further set the background, it should be recalled that several months

ago a very serious dispute erupted between Mr. John Edgar HOOVER and Martin

Luther KING, JI. At that time James FARMER, head of CORE, received infor-

mation, from an absolutely reliable source, that the FBI had derogatory in-

formation on Martin Iuther KING, Jr., that Mc. HOOVER was incensed on attacks

on his agents and the integrity of his organization, and that grave possi-

bilities existed that Mr. HOOVEr would turn loose to the public the derog-

atory information which has been presented above. In turn, FARMER gave the

information, in confidence, to Mr. Kennedy and at approximately the same

time, FARMER confronted Martin Luther KING, Jr. with the facts. It is suf-

ficient to say that the matter was hushed up by KING visiting HOOVER.

number of meetings took place between the top Negro leaders and discussions

were held as to what to do about the derogatory information, since obviously

other individuals would know about it.

To date, nothing has been done, and

the debate is going on in the top Negro channels at the present time.

EVES ONLY

- 4=

**CRET

---

## Page 26

14-000

SECRET

EYES ONIY

11. With this background in mind, the writer asked Mr. Kennedy who

were the top Negro leaders that he was in contact with and what were their

relationships one to another. The writer named the following individuals,

and these were acknowledged by Mr. Kennedy as persons with whom he was

dealing:

Whitney YOUNG of the Urban League

Roy WILKINS of the NAACP

James FARMER of CORE

A. Phillip RANDOLPH, veteran Negro union leader

Allan MORRISON, top Negro editor and journalist in the

United States.

The other leaders of first magnitude that entered the discussion are Martin

Luther KING, Jr. and Harry BELAFONTE, who has been established clearly as

a close and intimate friend of Martin Luther KING, Jr. and whose left wing

background is also known. Some of the lesser Negro leaders will be mentioned

later, but those of the greater strength and opposed to KING are YOUNG,

WITKINS, FARMER, RANDOLPH, and MORRISON. Mr. Kennedy replied to the ques-

tion of rapport among these leaders by saying flatly that there was no rap-

port at all, that all mistrust and dislike the other, and in certain cases,

there was often antagonism. Mr. Kennedy stated that the brightest, shrewdest,

and cleverest of all was Roy WITKINS, but a man who had no popular or grass

roots following. He stated that Whitney YOUNG was a bright Negro, but who

had no following whatsoever in the popular sense, but was making a definite

play to gain power by seeking to be publicly connected with important

individuals both in the Government and out. Mr. Kennedy described A. Phillip

RANDOLPH as a controversial old man, possibly becoming senile, who was afraid

to act for fear of damaging his own reputation and who liked to imagine

himself as the "Moses" of the Negro race.

RANDOLPH has some popular follow-

ing, but he is aloof and has not committed himself as intensely as some of

the others. James FARMER, according to Kennedy, is probably the most sin-

cere and devoted of the leaders, but is naive and has a complete capacity

for saying the wrong thing at the wrong time. FARMER personally is clean

and he does, in fact, have the grass roots support of the large organization

CORE, which he controls.

Mr. Kennedy insisted that he is law abiding, non-

violent, and a decent individual, but not too politically intelligent.

EVES ENLY

-5 =

SECRET

---

## Page 27

• SECRET .

EYES ONLY

12. Mr. Kennedy stated that for weeks the problem of Martin Luther

KING,

or. has been discussed between these leaders and that all of them are

aware of the details. (Mr. Kennedy stated that to show the range of con-

nections involved here and the sensitive nature of it, he gave the following

example.

He said that a few days ago, he was in the office of Whitney

Ior the Irst I minutes or so, YOUNG was constantly being called

to the telephone and the conversation was interrupted. : Mr..

Kennedy commented that the first two calls that came in were in-

consequential, but he stated that the third call was from the

President of the United States. Mr. Kennedy stated that he

listened to two more calls then told YOUNG that either he would

have to quit accepting phone calls or Mr. Kennedy would no longer . -

discuss anything with him.

to stop the calls, and they discussed the matter. Mr. Kennedy

stated that the conversation was basically his attempting to

get Whitney YOUNG to come to some agreement with the other leaders

on the KING matter by pointing out that Roy WILKINS was in favor

of "dumping" KING, and that he, Whitney YOUNG, hadn't committed

himself to anything. Mr. Kennedy indicated that this conversation

was not profitable.

13°

Of considerable importance to Mr. Kennedy was the following.

He was having a conversation with Allan MORRISON, the Negro editor, and

MORRISON said to him that he had received confirmation, in exact detail, of

the derogatory KING story. Further, that the information had come from

Washington from & highly placed official in the Department of Justice, Mr.

who had in turn conveyed the information to & Mr.

ja Negro

also attached to the Department of Justice, who was working in Chicago and

who had given it directly to Allan MORRISON... MORRISON stated that he was

told that the Washington source had the entire KING file in his office in-

cluding photographs and tapes on Martin Luther KING, Jr.

Mr. Kennedy said

he asked MORRISON if he had done anything about this; and, according to

Mir. Kennedy, MORRISON told him that he called a meeting of the top editors

and officials of the Johnson publications (Ebony, etc.) of which he,

MORRISON, is the top editor.

According to MORRISON, he told those present

the story. After some shocked silence, Mr. JOHNSON

said to MORRISON and

those present, we cannot publish that; and Mr. Kennedy said that MORRISON

told Mr. JOHNSON, if we don't publish it, it is going to blow up underneath

our noses because it is certain to come out sooner or later.

EYES ONLY

- 6 -

SECRET

---

## Page 28

SECRET™

EVES ENV

14. Mr. Kennedy stated that the details of the KING matter are

definitely known to the editors of the New York Times and the New York

Herald Bribune, but they will not break the story because they have been

asked not to. Mr. Kennedy stated presumably by the President.

15. The writer than referred to the Kennedy thesis that Martin Luther

by the Peking line Communists, possibly or probably through BELAFONTE, from

whom there is some information that would indicate he is a Maoist. The

writer asked Mr. Kennedy what possible action would the Peking line Commu-

nists take in the KING matter. Mr. Kennedy replied by saying that it is

certain to him that the Communists, both the Moscow and the Peking types,

are aware of the Martin Luther KING, Jr. matter. Mr. Kennedy stated as far

as he could figure out, the Peking Communists would handle KING in one of

two ways:

(a) We will permit you to remain head of the Negro movement in

the United States and you may continue to rise in public ac-

The other Negro leaders have no courage and they

will not expose you.

They are cowards and controlled by

the Capitalist leaders of the United States. You will, how-

ever, remember that we know what the story is and you will

do what you are told. Or

(b) They, themselves, the Peking Communists, will expose KING

and in so doing they will end him, they will everlasting

discredit all the other Negro leaders, and they will then

be in a position to disrupt the Negro movement, cause chaos

and trouble, and possibly gain control of it.

If they ex-

they will say to the Press and public media which

they control to the Negro people, that your leaders have be-

trayed you, they knew this story of KING all along and were

cowardly.

They obeyed instructions from their capitalist

leaders.

16. (Mr. Kennedy stated that he is absolutely convinced that the

Peking line Communists are moving ahead of the Moscow Communists,

both in

the world area and in the domestic scene. He pointed out that BELAFONTE has

taken over the Student Non-Violent Coordinating Committee and that James

FORMAN, Its National Executive Secretary, is going along with this. He

stated that there are other indications of the Peking line Commnists show-

ing strength, and that there are a number of ways this can be demonstrated.

He called attention to

the fact that for the last 3 or 4 weeks there has been

a period of inaction and that none of the Negro leaders, except James FARMER

EVES CHIY

SECRET

---

## Page 29

14-00000

!.. ...

SECRET. •

CIES ONLY

of CORE, have been doing anything when they should have been strongly

active. (Mr. Kennedy states that it is his opinion that this is due to the

movement being held in check by Peking line Communists who are demonstrating

and consolidating their strength.

He stated further that the "deacons" are

nothing more than small ad hoc groups

which the Peking line Communists have

set up

as needed and are, in fact, riding on the back of CORE. Mr. Kennedy,

stated that they are not CORE groups, but are activist Negro advocates of

violence and who are working to disrupt and smear CORE and its leadership.

They are constantly working to convert CORE from a non-violent group into an

action group which would, of course, put CORE in the Peking line.

The writer asked Mr. Kennedy if there was any indication that he

knew of that would show that the Negro leaders--YOUNG, WILKINS, FARMER,

RANDOLPH or MORRISON-were going to expose KING. ! Mr. Kennedy stated that

there is no such information, that none of them wanted to be responsible for

the exposure, nor could they agree among themselves to do it as a group.

MORRISON, himself, according to Kennedy, would like to expose the situation,

but he could not do this alone and unsupported. (Mr. Kennedy stated again,

as he had many times previously, that unless this exposure comes from the

Negro leaders themselves, the attacks on KING will be useless and will end

up only making him perhaps a martyr and would set back the Negro Civil Rights

Movement for years.

18. Toward the end of the conversation, Mr. Kennedy pointed out that

any examination of the Civil Rights Movement, at the present time, would show

a clear and concise picture of Communist penetration and activities, namely,

from the Peking line Communists. Mr. Kennedy said it is well to note that

the war in Vietnam has now been linked to the Civil Rights Movement and,

gradually, the two unrelated areas are being blended together in an all

out

Communist Party line attack on U.S. policy.

Mr. Kennedy stated that this has

spread confusion into the Negro Civil Rights Movement and has duped many of

the leaders of the movement and caused them to make utterances which are

stupid and certainly unpatriotic. Mr. Kennedy referred to the activities and

statements of A. Phillip RANDOLPH in behalf of the "Refusal to Fight" move-

19. Mr. Kennedy further said that the aims of the Communists were

clear in that they wanted to link the Negro leadership and the Negro mass

Civil Rights Movement into a position of anti-government action, and that

the Peking line would be away from the Moscow "peaceful coexistence line"

and would be continuous agitation for violent action and disruption. He

stated that so called leaders like Martin Luther KING, Jr. and Harry BELA-

FONTE have very clearly started blending the Negro Civil Rights Movement into

EVES ONLY

SECRET

- 8-

---

## Page 30

® SECRETI

IVES ONLY

a merger with their attacks on the government policy in Vietnam and, even to

a lesser degree, into attacks on government policy in the Dominican

Republic.

Mr. Kennedy predicted that more and more of this will appear as the summer

goes along.

He stated that among the most important leaders of the movement,

he felt that only Allan MORRISON had a thorough understanding of the problem,

that FARMER in a vague way understood the problem, but was not acute enough

to clearly understand it and combat it.

He said WILKINS and Whitney YOUNG

probably understood this matter, but they are too busy attempting to create

a good image of themselves in the public eye to be willing to get down and

fight this penetration in an all out manner.

20. Mr. Kennedy stated that he would be continuously in touch with

either Chief, SRS or the writer

as he obtained information of interest.

Rote Allen dem

EYES 01Y

SECRET

-9=

---

## Page 31

,.: :

SUBTECT: Notes Made During Conversations with

(JRK in New York City ZFebruary 1955

8. Source states Martin Luther King is a homosexual and a "Switch Hitter".

..,.

---

## Page 32

---

Memo

Nies Maria Duzing Convessations with JeK.

1. New York City 76 Feb. 1965"

SanTire veRsio Apperze atove - delted paztion

contan personal ine fee a Thiel party

---

## Page 33

14-00000

---

## Page 34

14-00000

LTR FROM DIR FBI To DEI DID H6 MAY 1967 PROVIDING

DOC ENTITLEO "RACIAL VIOLENCE POTENTIAL IN U.S.

THIS SUMMER" (OTD 23 MAY 1967)

FBI DOC OTO 2Y JAN 1968 ENTITICO "RESIST"

FBI DOC DTO 23 JAN 1968

"DEMONSTATTONS

PROTESTING U.S. INTERVENTION IN UN.

FBI DOC DÃD 19 TAN 1968 ENTIED "DEMONSTRATIONS

PROTESTING U.S, INTERVENTION IN UN".

FBI DOC DTO SO TAN 1968 ENTITLES" PROPOSED ANTI-UN

ORGANIAATION 'AUT FOR PEACE!"

LTR FROM DER PAI tO DEI DID 7 FUS 1968 WITH ENeWsies.

ENTITLED " DEMONSTRATION, WASH. D.C. FEIS 5-6, 1968.

FBI DOC ATO 5 JAN 1968 ENTITLED BEMONSTRATTONS

PROTESTING U.S. IN TERVENTION IN UN:

FOI DIE STO 13 SEAT 1968 ENTITIES " DEMONSTERSTONS!

PROTESTINA U-S. ENTERVENTION IN UN"

FBI DOC DTO 8 AUG 1968 ENTITRES " DEMONSTRATIONS

PROTESTING 4.5. INTERVENTION INUN:

FBI DOC DTO 18 MAY 1967 ENTITLES" DEMONSTRATIONS

PROTESTING U-S, #UTERVENTION NN IN:

FROI, DOC DTS 23 AUG 1961 (NEW ORLEANS, LA) GUTITLED,

"SOUTHERN CONFERENCE EDUCATINNAL FUND, SO,

ABSTRACT FROM FRI MESSAGES DO 250LY 1968 & 2EMANY

---

## Page 35

Moore

FBI LTR DID 3 OCT LY FROM DER HOOVER TÓ ICE HELMS

RE MARTIN LUTHER KING/WITH ENCLOSURE ENTITLED

"A CORRENT ONALYSIS-MARTIN LUTHER KING IR", IS MEE?

DEPT/STATE AIRGRAM ATO 30 OCT 1967, SUBT: MARTIN:

LUTHER KING TO DELIVER UN SPEECH IN STRASBOURG

---

## Page 36

FBI DUE STO IT SUN 1965 ENTITLES "DEMONSTRATIONS

PROTESTING U.S. INTERVENTION IN UN A DOM. REFUSHC".

FBI DUE ATTA 5 TAN 1968 ENTITLESS" DEMONSTRATIONS

PROTESTING U.S. FATEVENTION INUN"

EXTRACT FROM "THE NEW LEAT: ROAD TO ANARCHY" FRI, DID

BEC 1967

FRI DOC ENTITLED "MAJOR 'BLACK POWER' & MILITIAT

PERSONALITIES" WITHINDEX

FBI DOC ENTITLES" MILITANT, BLACK POWER, EXTREMIST

ANTO/OR COMMUNIST NEGRÓ ORIENTED ORGINIANTIONS"

WITH INDEX

FBI DOC ENTITLEO "SIGNIFICANT NEGRO ORGANIZATIONS.

NoT ALLIED WITH 'BLACK POWER' MILITONTS"

611T4-770

INDEX

---

## Page 37

SRS FILE COPY

SEORET

1 1 020 1637

"rEMORANDUM FOR

SUBJECT

: Deputy Directos for Sapport

: Threat to ClA by Some "Black Poweri

Elesents

1o This manorandur ls for information only.

2. The growing hostllity expressed toward this Agency by

somo of the more volatila advocates of so called "black power" pre-

senta this Agency with what might be a new threat to iin operation.

abroad and its imago in the United States.

3. In the past, denunciation of the Agency by a scattered

few for the alleged Agency "assassination" of Patrice Lumuraja zad

Malcolm X. Little might have been dismissed an natural fall-out fron

embittered follomers of the two, seeking a publicly-recognizable

scapegoat, and necessarlly distorting the true lacts behind the deathe

to have them "prove" the case againat the scapegoal. Presently, bow

ever, the growing milltancy of "black power" disciples -with clear

links to both Maolat and Moscow Communis ideologies and similarly

clear threnta to counter this Agency's activitied, necessilates placing

the problem in an entirely new perspective.

* The term "black power," despite its callitant origiat..

has been accepted by some to descrlbe the Inudable efforts of economie

"soll-help" and "pride of race" elforts of many Negroes at she commu

nity and collegiate level. Indeed, some of those of sincere dedication -

to the osthodon civli righte movamest have accepted the use of the term

"black power!" to describe their efforts.

This presents the problem of

separating these constructive efforts- ané advocates--from those wbose

goal to the dentruction of the legally connilluted govermnent ofthis

Nation.

Excited?

SEC ET

---

## Page 38

14-00000

5. At least toro organizations, the National Urban League and

the National Association for the Aévancement of Colored People, bare

questioned the motives and tactics of those who advocate ' black power.

and ' black rebellion," and sach respected Negro journalists as Casl

I. Rowan and George Schuyler have warned against the milltarts. In

Its report for Fiscal Year 1967, the Federal Bureau of Investigation

has pointed out that 'So-called civil righta organizations preaching

hatred for the white race, demanding immunity from laws, and advo

callag violence constitute a sorions threat to our country's internal

gecurity." (Emphasis added) The FBI annual report specifically

names the Stadent Nonvolent Coordinating Committee and the Revo

Jutionary Action Movement as hoping' to disrupt the tranquility of ous

Nation with violence to further the concept of "black power." Accord

ing to the FBI report, "Leaders of these group. constantly atterpt to

spread domestic discord among Negroes by maling inflammatory

speeches and issuing hate-illled litarature." (The same report warns

of much militant organizations as the Movimento Pro Indopencia de

Fuerto Rico, a group which has signed an "accord"' to work with the

Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee. ) State and Federal

legislative committees have taken notice of the Communist links to

some of the militant groups.

6. In many ways this information is illuminating. yet in othes

ways it presents the probiem of carcial evaloation. Mest certainly.

all past members of the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Sommittes

cunnot be charged with being s threat to the Nation's internal security.

whereas thome who support the statements and activities of the present

lesdership oi SNCC must remain suspect. Similarly, those who have

adhered to the tenets of the Revolutionary Action Movement, even from

its early days, must be considercd more than saspect.

7. Because of this matter of "degree' of involvement in the

unfavorable, Indesd dangerous, aspects of ' black power," this offis

has compiled from its records those personalition (Tab A), and orgaal-

rations (Tab B) which must be of our official concern.

tions which have to date resisted the blandishments of' black power;

leaders are indicated in Teb C.' Many of the personalities and

SECRET

---

## Page 39

orgasization in Tab 1 and Tab B hava not specilleally attacked thim

Agenay, although the anti-U. S. polley nance of pomo of them may

male this only a tomporary soprieve. Cthers have not spectically

spokos cut against the Agency, and by their satare, will probably

sever dingle out this Agency for abuso or organlied apposition.

8. Tha federal Eureau of Investigation has advised that it

knows of so organlied" black power"' assiult on this igency other

than the statemant of Stokoly Carmichael that he is establishing a

sen group to oppose ClA activities. Cs recorda prosently seem to

lirait information on open attacks on CIA to the Student Noaviolent

Coordinating Committes, the Aíro-American Heritage Assoctation

and the Organization ol Aiso- American Unity, the latter being the

organisation founded by the lato Malcoles 3. Littlo, and to individanis

affillated with a sunber of militant groups. Should information be re

ceived which significantly sapploments that contained in the attachments

to this memorandam, you will be advised.

Howard I. Osbora

Director of Security

Attachments:

Tabs A, B, C

Orig - Bet to OS

2

- DIS

OS/SRS/EFSayle/cer

SECRET

---

## Page 40

14-000n

.?'"

Elag Martia Itibes, Jr.

SE

GRET

---

## Page 41

14-00000

"""

1..-

KING, Martin Luther, Jr. - Rev. King beads the Southern Christia

Weadership Confarance which the Joint Legislative Committas

on Un-Americar Activities, State of Louisiana, reportad ou

13 April 1964 to ba "substantially undor the control of tha

Commania: Party." DI. King and his wile bavy been o

spokes critics of U.S. Vietnam policy.. DI. King la knows to

have two advisors sho were identified in the past with the Cou-

munist cause, and his deputy, Rev. James Bevel who heads

the National Mobilization, has been quoted as stating "every

thinking Americas" sboald ba a mamber of the Commurist

PaIty®

Di. King more recently has proposad extendad civil

disobedience in Washington, D.C., in the spring of 1968. AI-

though Dr. Ricg has participated la "peace" marches in tha

past, he sent bis regrets to the 21-22 October 1967 Pentagon

protesters, indicating that he would have attended if otbar

commitmenta had not precluded it.

*-23

---

## Page 42

14-00000

Southern Caristian Leadership Conierence,

Atlanta

This organization, headed by the Rev. Di. Martin Luther

King, JI., is not cited by any federal egenty or committee. However,

the Joiz: Legislative Committee on Un-Azerican Activitias, Stata 0f

Louisiana, reported on 13 April 1964: "The Committee finds that tas

Southern Christian Leadership Conference and the Student Non-Violent

Coordinating Committee are substantially under the control of the Cora-

muaist Party through the influence of the Soutzern Conference Educa

tional Fund and the Communists who control it.". Di. King has been an

outspoken opponent of U.S. involvement in the Vietzem conflici and has

supported the various majur protest movements. His deputy, Rev.

James Bavel, has headed the April 15th Mobilization, the Spring

Mobilization Committee and presently heads the National Mobilization

Committee to End the War in Vietnam. DI. King has been publicly ident-

Ified as attending at least one session at the Highlander Foly School and

his deputy has indicated that "every thinking American" should be a

member of the Communiat Party, FBi:sources have indicated that Rey:

King has-two past identified Communists servisg as advisorsp zad tha?.

they hare counseled Di, King to avoid involvement with the militzsts of

SNCC.

B-33

---

## Page 43

14-00000

SECRET

22 Shes

NICHINOUN FOR

SUBJECT

¿ Dopuly Direr'.or fox Support

Potentin" for Civil Distarbance,

Washington, D.C. a Summer 1963

1, This memorandum is for infernation only.

Z. Gn 15 March 1969, 1 furnithed you with our update

anzasement of the Blsck Pawar movement and aticniant potential

Ina civil distarvance. Since that time, se have rocoived two ca

collent studies irom the federal Buzcau of Invcatigation which pro-

ride additional ini-cation about cstromist olements and tbe

potential los civil incurbance in lba Distulet d Colunhia during

the surinor 6s 1903.

3. Due of the reports, ontitled "wartin luthes king,

JI, mà Curront Analysis" soles Dr. Ling'o threat to dislocale the

city of lashingtos and illl to jalls di rachington and corrounding

communities by having his followars engage in civil disobediener

during the proleaged "Wachlogton Spring Prsject' or "Poor People'

Campaign' slated to begin on 24 April 1903.

Tho 2EI study dotils

Fov. Ling's Harrist bent and tne high degree cá trauenco on bis

behavior by Coramuaist ulemonto. Coupled with euch Communist

infidence ovar the Poor Feoplo's Campeiga, tie FUI study notes

the additional threat which esists in the plans eí black nationalist

Ercups to crise the iniciative of the Campaigu and escalate tho

demonstrations to riolenco. These two lactors, stateo the IDI

etudyr proacol "n potential jor an estzamoly explosive situation."

I have attrehnd to mioci-dotalloà FBi atudy on Di. ling'a political

orlentation aul morl weaknessos as TAB A.

The second Fol etudy, entitled "Nuclook for Racial

Violence ic Warhisgton, D.C. " providos an in-repth rovou of

both exploars and souerating fucirs concersed With that logic.

---

## Page 44

14-00000

SEGRET

It notes tbat Wasbington, D.C. has a large, voll-established, re-

sponsible Negro middle class which has a stabilising Influence on

the entire Negro community. It also sotes le dispersal of problent

noas and the intensive awarenese and concern of Government.

olilciala and community loaders for what necurs in the city. The

report cbserves, however, "storm clouds gathering on the borizon."

The report notes: "Were it not for the continuing presence of

Stokely Carmichsel In Hashington and the mans civil disobedienca

demonatration that Martin Luther King has planned for the Nation's

Capital this spring, the racial cituation In the Distrlet of Grumbia

could be viewed with some measure af optimism shes compared

with lhe prospects In come other majoz American citles... But

Carmichiel's current exganizing activity and king's schocuted

demonstration bode 1l1 for this city," "The immediate threat to

Washington, " continues the annlysit, "'s posed by King'a project. "

It noten that the line between civil disobodience and violence is pre-

carloualy thia and can bo crosood over all too easlly, "There le

danger, " It sotes, "that the demonstration will get out of control

or that extremista wili seize the project and take over its direction. "

The King demonstraton, states tho repost, "conetitutes a grave

threat to peace and order in this city." The FBI study siso reas

8 "long-sange peril to Washington" In Carmichael's efforts to

create a Bluck Unlted Front. Carmichael's aberrant personality

and his dediention and commitment to the use of violent action to

destroy American society, the seport concludes, "can have only a

polarting and poisoning effoct on race relationa in Washingtor.

He fu a potent menace to the racial trangullity of this cily." The

detalled FBI tudy la sttached &= TAB B.

5. I will koop you informed of any edditional information

recalved which selecte on the potential for civil disturbance in

Washington and environs.

Howard J. Osborn

Director of Security

Attachmento as stated

Diatribution:

Orig - ret to 25

2 = DDS

OS/SRS/EFSayle/pjh - 27 March 1968

SECRET

---

## Page 45

14-00000

---

## Page 46

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION

RYBATS E C RET

TO

PRO-

POSED

XX

Chief

iNFO.

FROM

Chief/WH Division

33447

PROCESSING

ACTION

MARKED FOR INDEXING

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED

HEADQUARTERS DESA

CAN JUDGE INDEXING

ABSTRACT

MICROFILM

Chief of Station,

JIMWAVE

SUEJECT RYBAT/ FJDUST/ PBRUMEN/ AMFRI SK

Surveillance on IDEN C

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

ACTION REQUIRED: For your information

Xuly

*Cle

1. IDEN A, a cleared and witting contact, provided the

following information which was obtained during a surveillance

of IDEN C.

The surveillance was a joint effort of IDEN A and

LoCal ODENVX: ODENVY is not aware that IDEN A has passed the

information to JMWAVE.

2. On Thursdav 19 May 1966 o coillance was instituted

620, which was occupied

DY IDEN C and his alde IDEN D.

The surveillance was initiated at

11:00 a.m. and terminated at 5:15 p.m. During the conversation

between IDENS C and D and another unknown Negro male, believed

to be IDEN E, references were made to the Florida Gubernatorial

Race; a trip to Bimini; and

several miscellaneous sex experiences

3.

On 20 May 1966 a search was made of rooms 620 and 622

after IDENS C and D moved out.

Forwarded under separate cover

are copies of items found in the waste baskets and dressers;

a hotel bill, and a list of telephone numbers which were called

on 18 - 19 May 1966.

4. Of special interest among these items was a note which

stated, IDENT, Please call Long Distance Operator IDEN G.

IDEN H

according to IDEN A, is an identified

member of the

Communist Party.. Also, an envelope of IDEN B with the name

IDEN I. This person may have been one of the occupants of the

room who remained in the company of IDENS C and D overnight.

5. JMWAVE traces were negative on all personalities

mentioned above as well as those names appearing in the date

forwarded under separate cover.

JWAVE has carded only those

personalities who reside in the

IMWAVE area:

Attachment:

A. IDENS A-I u/s/ c

B. TENS US/C

DISTRIBUTION:

3) - Chief

w/att

DATE TYPED

- Chief, WH Divisionw/o att

DATE DISPATCHED

S31 18 1965

CROSS REFERENCE TO

15 July 1966

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

exclused ise stomati

caungradiog and

declacallicatio

¡UFGT - 16828

HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBER

ACCOM

PLISHED

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

---

## Page 47

14-00000

1.

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION

"SECRET

Aff to It

• ... ATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

UFGT - 16828

Separate Cover Attachment A to UFGT , 16828

IDEN A

IDEN B

IDEN C

IDEN D

IDEN E

IDEN F

IDEN G

Ded

Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr Cor

Bernard to intel

Dr. Brown

Dr. King, Jr.

IDEN H

IDEN I

Distribution:

(3; - C/KUSODA)

1 - Chief, WH Division

r....

i":.

---

## Page 48

14-00000

ROBERT S.

BROWNE,

ECONOMICA DEPARTMINT

-FATÄLEIGH DICKINSON UNIVERSITY

TEANECK NEW JERSEY

AXDIDINEES 2UA TRION AVE. TEANKER A de

TELEPHONE: 201 • TE 3-1718

Robert S, Brisai

Mosto: "God First, Cihers Seiond, Ourselves Last"

Rew Wm. Lou Lamber., B.Th., D.D.

PASTOR, GREATER MOUNT HOPE BAPTIST CHURCH

6034-40 S. Princeton Ave. • HYde Park 3-4708

Pres., Interdenominational Ministers Clvle League o! Ill.

Chalrman, Exec. Bonrd, Good Citizenship Org.

Chicago, II. 80821

Res. 5676 Normal Bivd.

HUdson 7-1195

PHONE

MO 5-5116

DAY OR NIGHT

Noah Sarvis..

PRIVATE INVESTIGATOR

1051 S.W. 64 COURT

MIAMI BE. FLORIDA

INSURANCE

INVESTIGATOR

TEACHERS'

THE

MEMBERSHIP

CARD AND

DUES RECEIPT

1965-1966

36Ph YEAR

VASCASSOC

QF

& SERVICE

Ronald k. Young )

NAME

N°

4273

FMONE 008.8211

"SURIỢ"

MICHAEL ANTHONY GLEAN

ATTORNEY AND COUNBELLOR AT LAW...

LLOP & LONG

ATTOANEY!

100 MITCHELE TREET, E. 10.

LEGAL ARTA BUILDINO

COURTHOUSE BOUANE

ATLANTA. OA. 30303

0* 224-9710

St. Stephen's Evangelical

Tutheran Chuck

HARPY E. XNDERORN;

8B00 MÁFILAND AVENUE

CHICAGO 18, ILLINOI

4

Hong,

, Yong Ki

FOREION EDITOR

JOONG-ANG ILBO

BEOUL, KOREA

NEWS CONMENTATOR FOR.

JOONO-ANG RADIOTY UBS)

KOREAN BROADCASTING SYSTEM (KB#

1:9-4,000

RUTH Y WASHINGTON

STATL OF NEW YORK

WORKMEN'S COMPENSATION BOARD

BO PARK PLACH

du /-7125

NEW YORK CITY

PAT L. TORNILLO, JR

EXECUTIVE SECRETARY

conco att to UgFT-1let28

Supl''.

Cores

10

UFGT-

FRONT

---

## Page 49

6883164

116491

GO11H#

Stewar

174-88146

ine he. Mistin 665-5116

Lathinking

Zinbirst,

Very bartont!

CORRECTED

ADDRESS

PÜ77971

plase cice.

If and when your address and/or school changes

after joining CTA, please correct on post card or

phone CTA (373-7535). This will insure services.

Bill + Elaine. Calloing.

40W/35Z5T

NYINY

Office AU69893

Morie. 7029861

Alicano, it

Are facial

Events

Back siDE of cArds.

---

## Page 50

MAR. 1966

SMTWTIS

129&8

8 7 8 8 10 11 12

19 1€ 15 18 17 18 10

20 21 22 23 24 25 26

27 28 29 30 31

FRIDAY

29

APR. 1966

- APPOINTMENTS-

MAY 1966

SM TWTF S

8 0 10 11 12 19 14

15 10 17 18 10 20 21

22 23 24 25 2627 28

29 30 31

8:00

9:30

10:00

10:30

11:00

11:30

14: 00

1:00

1:30

2:00

2:30

Or Key fu.

Please Cale

Long Distaus

Operalor 71

Yemestead New Yark!

487-5199

4:30

- 5:00

5:30

Lighan)

---

## Page 51

4-00000

13803S

i Men's Shot,

MIAMI INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT.

JERRY BALINDO

NILE KRUP"!

MIAMI 59, FLORIDA

PHONE NEWTON 5-6/75

AIRLINE UNIFORMS & ACCESSORIES • LUGGAGE O SHOES

Customer's

Order No.

Sold To

Phone

No.

Cash

C.O.D.

Charge On Acci. Melse. Rer. Pel. Our

QUAN.

DESCRIPTION

Cabana d0t

PRICE

Feds

199€

19F

495

300

3135

THANK YOU

Please keep this copy for release

2585

10. 122912 Reid by

En9./0

UARCO INCORPORATEO

103087HO 80

•SI SA TVNY 390d

3dAd

"ON 371

'ON

13803S

---

## Page 52

* 13833S

RE943

=

THE

AMERICANA

HOTEL

iacroud

MENS SHOP

7thAve. & 53rd.S8.

Customers 131|4/ iDate N116

Order No._

i. ici:

21.15

Address

SOLD BY

CASH

c.0.0.

CHARGE

ACET.

MOSE.

RETD.

QUAN.

DESCHIPTION

110s

FRICE

FANES

NEW YORK

CITY

LT 1-7288

AMOUNT

1 MO SISTINE

Mom cust

# 2169V

177,0

ALL clams ond returned gooda MUST be occomponied by than bill.

37471

Rec'd by..

-0-4

BURMERA FORMS. INC. BMELET. OMO CFA

"CARDHOLDER'S RECEIPT - SEE REVERSE SIDE FOR EXPENSE RECORD

#: 1203-7906-4

Diners aun

YORK.

Y. 10010

TR MARTIN R. MINGURNAL

RECORD OF CHARGE

310-910-102-6

AMT. FOR

ARPORT MENS SHUP

14,95

PURCHABE

OF

tie that ital

OR MOSE.

indiAmi SE, FLA

on 0: 106

THE AMOUNT OF TE CHARGES RECORDED

Hollie

AMOUNT TO THE

N/

TAXES

TIPS

CARDHOLDER'S

AND

39X

MISC.

MOUS

1746

TOTAL

CHeCK OF

BILL NO.

RENA DONO LO REECE ONE

ONLY

DINERS

U.B. Au

311₫

"ON

8

---

## Page 53

INTERNATIONAL

sosten, Inc.

ONEMORANDUN

1...

MARTIN h. KINg TR

From :

bloct: PhoNE CAlls -

5/18/66

Date:

3 696-8521 111@CoeAmKINSEY14O5NW5IST.U

NE-4-4842-

758-7650 111-MAXiNE ThuRsTON> aline Rotary phose,

NE-5-127571 GEORGE A. MILLERD R535 N. RIVERDR.

NE -5-4949 8MRS. MARY J. MECoY 4950 N.W. IS COURT, MinAJ

888-5211 SEE OTHER SIDE

NE-3-3311 NATIONAL AIRLINES

5/19/66

MOT - 0006

4BW. IVAN HOY) 5881 S.W. 52 TER. J

377-3681

GReATeR min. webANhergir

158-7659 MAXINE THURSTON, 13OL N.W. 81 TERR.U

374-4212

1 CHALKS FLYING SERVICE, MACARTHUR CAUSEN

377-9445

MACKEY AIRENE SORT LAUD.

635-1275

135-1272 AM STONE

691-3311 - NAT. AIRLINES

NE-4-484220A liCE FRANCIS24731 NWIJAE

Luficate.

---

## Page 54

14-00000

888-5211

AIRWAYS HOTEL

MOTEL

LENAHE

LENNyS HiDE A WAY

L.A. WIEN INVESTMENTS

MIAMI AIRWAYS HOTEL

MIAMI. AIRWAYS MOTEL

44801

5055 N.w. 36 S.

---

## Page 55

14-00000

ENPINES

465^09 7905

Trove

kI.5

J*

WI EATENSE RECORD

Diners wai

5

NO ONES CIRCLE

YORK.

10010

EBTADLISHHENT

-'91

51 611 402

**=

JATE

12/23-1615

THE ANOUNT OF THE CHARGES RECORDED

CORDHOLOCRE SIGNATURE

DIONS CLUB ANG ONLY

WERE INCURRED

AND

SUCH AMOUNT TO THE

X•1/l.2i

ON DA CHON PROVAL

WHEN APPUCA

11U27

CHECKOR

TULA NO

REMIT

ONLT

THE DINERS'

RECORD OF CHARGE

1100

ANT. FOR

PURCHASE

BERVICE

DA MOSE.

TAXES

175

TIPS

AND

MISC

20 2.6 TOTAL

200 RE. PARDHOLDER'S RECEIPT

FOAM

MADE IN U.S.A

CARDHOLDER'S RECEIFT - SEE REVERSE SIDE FOR EXPENSE RECORD

CARDHOLDER

EXPIRES

DC 2203 7906 9 NOV6

DR

MARTIN L KING IR

DINERS CLUB

10 COLUMBUS CIRCLE

NEW YORK, N. V. 10019

ESTABLISHMENT

THE DINERS CLUB

3212113884

SHERATON CHICAGO MOTEL

VATE

CHICAGO

ILL

HER ON WERE INCURREN EE SECONDEN

WERE

PROMISE

INCURRED

1 DINERS CLUS. INC.

SUCH

ARDHOLDER'S SIGNATURE

ONLY.

AMOUNT

TO THE

Barton foe

RECORD OF CHARGE

ANT. FOR

PURCHASE

OF

SERVICE

OR MOSE.

TAXES

TIPS

AND

MISC.

REY. 8/5ARDHOLDER'S RECEIPT

SECK OR

TOTAL

CARDHOLDER'S

ONLY

TO

RECEIPT

THE

DINERS

CLUB.

FORM DE 200

U.g.A.

MADE IN

SIbEEL.

hered!

2345044

---

## Page 56

14-00000

EXPIRES

BELUND

•cros 7006 Sionis

-Diners au..

COLUMBUS CIRCLE

YORK.

N.

1000g

ESTAOLISHMENT

.:?:

51611 400

DATE

111992-

THE AMDI

165-

PROMISE

WERE

OF THE CHARGES RECORDED

CHROHOLDER A SIGNATURE

DINERS

INCURRED

CLUO ON. ON A MOUNT TO THE

X-Illin

Ter;

DONE YEAMMATS

11U21

CHACK OR

Ribe F910.

REMIT

CARDHOLD TRES RECEN

ONiT

CLUB.

RECORD OF CHARGE

1100

PUNCHASE

0F

TAXES

175

2026

TIPS

AND

MISC.

TOTAL

UST CARDHOLDER'S RECEIPT

FORM DE

MADE IN U.BA.

CARDHOLDER'S RECEIPT - SEE REVERSE SIDE FOR EXPENSE RECORD

CARDHOLDER

EXPIRES

DC2203 79069 NOV6

6

DR

MARTIN L KING JR

DINERS CLUB

10 COLUMBUS CIACLE

NEW YORK, N. Y. 10019 i

ESTADLISHMENT

THE DINERS CLUB

3212113884

SHERATON CHICAGO HOTEL

CHICAGO ILL

MEREON

THE AMOUNT OF THE CHARGES RECORDED

WERE

PROMISE

INCURRED

TO

DINERS CLUB. INC.

sUCH

AND

CARONOLDER'S SIGNATURE

AMOUNT TO THE

ONLY.

RECORD

OF CHARGE

Амт.

FOR

PURCHASE

BERVICE

OR MOSE.

TAXES

TIPS

AND

MISC.

TO MION SEC, MROVAL

TOTAL

REMIT

CARDHOLDER'S

ONLY

RECEIPT

TO

THE

DINERS CLUE

CARDHOLDER'S RECEIPT

RADE DE LOO REY. 8/69

S: Melon

3267Nt

£ 349

---

## Page 57

King:

p.M.

8:30

Lean times

8:30

At. Willy on:

ms International

AIRPORT HOTEL

DIRECTEY ATOR THE NEW MIAMI, AIRPORS TERMINAL

P. 0. BOX 2094

MIAMI, FLORIDA 33159

---

