104-10226-10117

HE DQUAL ERS BY

AATEREAL REVEEBED AE CTA

LXATIONS SCARE

MMEPTED ON ASS:

NOUSE SELECT C

LOE

PELE TLTLE/NUABER/VOLUS

ee es

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATUON: _

INCLUSIVE DATES: _

DELETIONS, IF ANY:

feeb mtg

NTS MAY BE COPIED OR RENOVED FROM THIS FILE





CO wnctassirien, Co) wren Cl CONFIDENTIAL OD secrer

ye

"30 uly 1963
TO: (Office deugnotion, room number, ond
Soha

COMMENTS (Humber each comment to show tom ahem
~ Drow © tine eors column ater woth tomamne}

2- This information was sent to
"Ol Stare recently ond has
orohably been forwarded to 101
for renly, Thourh you ment
he able to use this extra aODy.

see 4 : :
Sc\wnoe ey ae tree g Grr
ORG wea where,

Sov, oanoaads «

8 ae,
c ue oT

tego thot wy

INTERNAL C1_UNctasstrien
USE omy 7


GFT) SQNSTTIVE
S/O
rar Cees : i 5 duty LT

Caief, Contect Division, 00°

Attengted AIS Iunetration of Hell welephsas Laboratories - Wt-10G12

a \
b : \

Bo TuLY 63

yt
SECRET grveinue /ZL/. AAA

foo- S71



ere rom re
=

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

'. Memorandum

TO :
Atta:
FROM

SECRcT

Chief, Contact Division

Yiincoln start

cater, Office

pata: 1 July 1963

Attempted R.I.8. Penetration of Bell Telephone Labs

Ref: [_] Reports 2986-3 ang 2969-3

1, We thought the attached reports would be of interest to Lincoln
Steff from a Soviet realities standpoint.
de brought to the attention of Division management because the M.0. out-
Lined therein is becoming 6 mejor factor in dealing with sources vio have

contact with Sovbloc nationale.

We also felt that they should

It has been our experience that the type

of activity outlined has been on a mrked increase, particularly since
the establibkment of the KGB 10th Directorate. Although such activity
by Sov legals is taking place throughout tal U.3., undoubtedly

ite greatest impact is being felt in the
“areas because of the large Soviet Government establishaenta in both of

anil foe

jand Washington, D.C.

For this reason it vould seem imperative that both WAFO
extremely vigilant for auch activity 1n companies and insti-

tutiona with which they are dealing in order that it my be recognized
im its earliest stagea and appropriate CI/CE countermeasures instituted.

In order to assist other offices in this reopect, ve plan to write in the
near future an article for the Division Newsletter, outlining some of our

experiences along these lines.

of Vo vere somevhat disappointed in CI Staff's reaction to our
Fecent request for assistance in defensive briefing of the subject of
It seems to be quite clear now that our

original assumption concerning his being R.I.8. targeted was quite correct

2.

one of the attached reports.
and that there ts

strong likelikood that bia current trip behind the

Curtain will be utilized by the opposition for provocation and/or an
We wonder in future cases of this nature

exactly vhat support we may expect from Angleton's shop. Although we
“fool that ve have a foir capability for handling ouch matters here in

actual recruitment atteupt.

“olightly :

reason than to
"old pros.

SECRET

we do admit that, at least on this one, ve would have felt
more comfortable had a CI specialist been along, if for no other
preclude any possible Monday morning quarterbacking by the



/
i
i
7
|
ji
i

SECRET
“2+
Subject: Attempted R.I.8. Penetration of Bell Telephone Labs

3. Judging dy the attached mterial, it vould appear that, despite
established Bell ‘policy (see our 16 May memorandum re Case 39,790), the
opposition bas seen fit to deflower at least tvo of Bell's acientific
virgins. We ser§ously wonder at this point just how many other Bell
people might.be in the same boat. Perhaps, as a result of all this,
some representation by Bell management to the KOB will be forthcoming,
spelling out..to that organization, as was spelled out to our own, estab>
lished compeny palicy pertaining to such mitters. In any event, it would
appear that at least one or two Bell scientists, and there are probably
more, have been giving tha 8.1.8, more cooperation and reporting than the
Agency. Let's hope that in the near future Bell management takes some :
effective steps to rectify this rather ludicrous, and patently dangerous, :
situation.

[ t

Attachments: [_]Reports 2988-3
and 2989-3

a /OO2.
SECRET |.


UAH SUAUE tees tesntt yah
Veiga vin

me China, Contacy Divisio.
Atta ¢ Supports (J

cuter, Gevtee

bee

stay Apparvat il Interest Ln
11 Telephone Lay: >

Aad

1b 230 hours Lh Jus,
received a strong defensive briefing in corn
July trip to the YSSk und suiguria (ees
line for subject). During
from hin thkt prior to a trip to tar US

tn 2959 he hud been cun~

tacted by an ind{vidual who represented hinsel? ue u West German

Intelligence Officer. More importunt, ve eisy learned that, ut

about the same tiue, RIS cultivation i apparently began.
2. Concerning the West German aypreach, indLeated

“that hts mother, vho resides in Hambury, va. wlephoned in 3.99%
an individual whe cletsed to be an old iequ-inuance of her son's
and who was interested In contacting hin conzerning employneat in
the US. The caller left a phone uumce~ tnd afd that he would ap-
preciate tb if could call hia nex. tase he wae tu Hast
other relayed the message wo her
he telephoned the caller just prior to his ix4, USSR Jun

individuaj he called ideutiried himsel! ar G L
Officer and_said that he vould like to nex, as coon as
t, tac individanl in question

Bible. agreed. When tiny
— does not recali his name) prescnted sultable ercdentiale
and expressed interest in rip to ta: USSR. According te

((——~~J account, tke West German Invell:, e Officer gave him the
old “keep your cyes and vars open” pitch, and ‘:14 him that he would
contact him in the rirst West German city in wich he touched down
after his USSR trip. was conacted in Stuttgart promptly
after returning to Gervany from the USs% un his way puck to the US.
Because of his US employneat and the fect that Zell paid tor his trip,
became very upprehensive about any further contact with the
West Germn service and et the time of the call indiccted tiat ne nad
nothing to cay and wanted no further contact. cher tuan
examination or ercdentials (us reported above),
attempt Lo establish the Lona ides of the Ge: E
We pointed out to the kely posatiility that the a
might not have deen vone fide and might, In fuct, save been a provo-

cation. :
Cte eld,

% Cay +)

yo

ee i na ae



aPhor to the ateve

Apparently R.r.3.

ceived what appeared te ve wu routine

acoustics Sici.

es ta Mosca:

timt during his visit he would Line

frum an tndividy

Sov asousties engingcs vive win Yely

a

iike te deliver:
comm a
whitch had t.
thor senidats
Lastauc! oot a,
finally agreed te

yp the iuvitss

the latter dec.
an area closed +

“artery

thay Jeiit det

the Sov arranged to
Chithaa, New Jersey,

Yor her husband.

4.

routine and that Re cont recall oth!

during the trip.

thy ANS voy coaktery
ae ibe hort aud was 4

speaks fluent Gomme net

continually.

Ris sIFR ae

2 PKR,
KGB Cut

5. Coonet ie tn

Zhe evening fren
sentative of

Purduev had Just sapere & Vasit to

city had asied ht
the pione call.

in person, and th: two weje errangements te }
following week in Manhatte

sensitive 9 “267%


i
i
H
i
|
!
i
H
!
i
|
|
i

|
|
i
}
:

Subject: Apparent tas

weil Telephone Lab:

received «
ing te the USSE :
there. lucidentalzy, wal othe
in lye F ern at 8 i

i cold that uct, if hot Qik. of %
te hin were tu hic twe ane usually apjenroa to nov
pay phones. [——] we'd that niu meetings witn ¥
lunches and dinners in Manlatton, wockniitng ob
Meeting, thoutes, ti.) entertalument si cach othe: in
homes. Jalng that his wife accumjanted hy
his contact with Yolgin. Other tim to aig own fonliy, Vulgti

introduced[______] to any other

ie

unclassivtes: nechnic
engineer.
the information oF + it over te

At one point during their relationubty, Yo
an article on US acoustics work, for pall feution

wis 9

Journal’ deciined.

3. In retrospect admitted that A been quile natve
about his relationsatp vith Volgin und expressed sun concern that:
security lds! are Bs ta idan ishing hit ¢ inst devel wp-

opr thw Is view ~
cwlth ors ns A result of

ment of rela
of his experience,
our discussione

9. Another fuctor which wbviously enters ‘ato KTS.

pic. ture te biG wife's: bulgarian gateaction sYacas that
neither he nox, te the best of ATS Kies have ever der

eoncerning bh

approached by Suvblo>
wife's faatly t. Muyarta. Ike Mensokthe
dnmigrated to the US tn April b&- and Lived with Fuad bts
wife until sovember 1162 when she revuraed to Sila, appireatly because
she vag homesick and roulda't miguct to the uew language and life in
the US. ald that his notner-di-Jas's origtanl exit v

request was rejected in 1953 by tur Guvernasut, tut aft,

‘and his wife wrote severe! ietters to the bulgwian Foreign Minsetry

on to leave in 1360, *

she was finally granted pene!

SECREI

SENSITIVE «=O 6 ZR.



SECRET

SENSITIVE

Subject: Apparent RIS Interest in
- Bell Telephone Labs

' :

10. After! visits the USSR on his current trip, he
splans to fly to Sofia to opend approxinately a veek with his wife's
femily there. had not me Bulgarian vielt in
outlining his original itinerary to of this office, there-
fore, it vas not mentioned in Coordination Outline.

LL. All of the above vould seém to indteate quite strongly that
[_—} 48 we originally surmised, hao been targeted by R.I.3. In
briefing we ran through some of the typical entrapment
situations fabricated by the opposition, e.g., women, homosexuals,
purdhage of drugs for Sov citizens, black mrket activity, acceptance
of letters to mail outside the USSR, commitments to disaffected Sova,
etc. In addition, ve stringently admontohed against any
notetaking or photography which could in any way be construed com=
promising. We also alerted| to the fact that some attempt
might be made to usé his .1ife"s family as leve io @ recrultment
attempt. In this connection, ve pointed out. AY enn that there
was a strong likelihood that the R.I.S. and/or Bulgarian service vould
make an approach to hin during his forthcoming visit to Sofia. An
approach in Bulgaria would give the Sove an opportunity for disavowal
- and also would provide the proper setting for maximum utilization of

relatives. When mentioned that his sister-in-lav, FNU

bad indicated several times in the past that she vould like
€o-leave Bulgaria, we strongly admontehed him against making any com-
mitmente to her, pointing out that she may possibly be co-opted by
the opposition. We told |that any representations to gain
an-exit visa for his sister-in-law abould be channeled through the
US Legation in Sofia. [___] wae told that, if any pressure vere
applied concsrning his wife's family, his best reaction would probably
be a noncommittal, "I'll think it over when I get home:" All in all,
we alerted| as best we could to the opposition M.0. and pre-
pared him on ho best to avoid some of the not so obvious pitfalls
which might be in store for him.

12. Prior to our briefing of alerted Bell
management to all of the ramifications of travel behind
the Curtain. The management was informed by| that ve felt_it

our obligation to point out to them the strong possibility that
had been targeted in order that they would have all of the facts avail-

able before signing off on hie trip.

SECRET"
cence  /2 eR


SECRET
SENSITIVE

Bubject: Apparent RIG Interest in }

Bell Telephone Labe

- 13. Assesament of[_____] Subject, @ very accompliohed
scientist, heads up all acoustics research He reads

Kussien and is fluent in Germen, French, Spantsb, Italien, Dutch,
and English. He impresses us as being @ rather savvy, discreet,
coojerative, mture, stable, vell motivated individual. We attrt-
bute| lapparent lack of discretion in his dealings vith
the Bove more to the subtlety of the Sov approach than to his om
naivete. It has been our experience that most US businesumen and
scientiets are very susceptible and vulnerable to the opposition
approach mainly dus to somevhat of a lack of realistic public
e@ucation.cohcerning contacts vith Sovbloc nationals. We feel
that degree of cooperativeneas vith US services has
been enhanced considerably by his feeling thet he has really been
taken for a ride by the opposition.

Incidentally, when ve asked subject for permission to release this
information vith source disclosure to the FBI, he was at firat sone-
what apprehensive and expressed the desire to talk 1t over with one

of bis superiors before he made any commitments. He finally
egreed, hovever, vhen ve convinced him that it vould certainly be in
hie best interest to get on record with the FBI as soon as possible.
Yost off his apprehension about the FBI seemed to be attributable to
the fact that he has Just been granted UB citizenship and, in addition,
1s now somevhat concerned that bie activities vith the Sova in some
way say effect his security statue vhich in turn could be very detri-

sental to his career.

Besed on our limited contact vith we have every reason to
believe that he would be suitable for operational use, should the
area choose to pursue such a course.

1h. We would strongly recommend that all of the above be passed
to the Bureau in order that that organization may effect contact
vith and provide him with proper guidance concerning any
further approaches by Sov or Bloc nationals in this country.

a)

ra chile 7 442


fe MM Ne. aint Serre be

2. BBB, POR gut ae 9 ARG. ARIN.. Germany. Oo nent
EXC oily = Seas Sonmas oF cittzenetly pes
ayy. ation for ecu -mle 22 January 1764.
3. dome Adaregs: 15. Caton «reas
QL. .atte, Jew veveay

b+ Buiperery: . Subjovt vill tencativety Aoyart U8 10 May, ares. ing
V1 spend ord eeeke whaltiog Inve

4 the invitetion of D. Ovisulast,
Deputy Cratrma, sate wand ttee fur Coordination uf

. Bcrectifia Reseurct'. If Che 1) my arrival date t9 wt

acoeytable bo the Hoviets, ovbjocs vill mune tas trip La
Jum or Swy.

tn carly Waren of tala’ pear na rwealved tbe
lavitesion tron Orishient mavtioned adores

‘Durie ate trip, ecaject will discuss vith Soviet ease.
yarts various aspects of voles communloaticng research
tleetroseousties, auf areuitestural ascustios, Bo wil

alec visit Soviet leborataries Levalved in researct 1
theee flelés,

Semartty Dyatua Subject was granted Secret clearenne ty Kidd avovn

verial Commod JO duly 1736 in axtictpntion of hig
being used on elaseified project at Bell Laboraturies.
Alisa seme



2

tt coneviw® apprehensive. He wie again soatested in
1Y@ far Meorlafing subsequent to @ 08 visit of a dovlet
covnteryart.

“te Bena s 28 »  Bubseot's vite ws
Pw reported” y holds Ww
1 citiseansp. "tr Movedber JGid sab Juet managed to
far tan.pation tw the Us uf bie acther-Lu-Lav,
ftar @ short etry ie thie oomtry,
: bovever, ohe vetted to her hus 1:: dofia tn March 1563.
Tn oddition to bis muther-ta-lov, prenimbly there are
hor relatives of bie vito obill living in Daigaria,

10. 1Z-18 Aaguos 1959
a ts Reossw end
Laningped. FE

au. W pont bap idl poipel 4

omgrtent
veada Reoteles ead to flusct is
Caan, Byers, Gmaish, Teallea, Bebeh cad English.

kind io yaotogreghy or Lxerinimting tote taking vill
be requsgted ef hin,

w eomuc et ese cm rtm
15. Brtatioa. ig cod Rarttgimang: Briefing viii be eontaated ty
pervomzel.

16. Dyanna of Prig! Subjeck's trip wilt be funded by his exgaqy.
Seamtiartien Beaihizat 3S tay 1965.

| JAhslrn:


SECRET .

a A mepateee
: usin stares coveassss GEGUTIYE

Memorandum
tO : Chief, Contact Division _ DATR: 26 June 1963
Attn: Support O0-A- 2D667TIT A
veom ; Chief, Office ¢ - RG 3)
ra sa
lee WG z rent_RIS Inte: io
Bell Laboratories ‘> See —
: ayrot et, rR
ee ore seemhss |
: arenlege 12
we :

1, During routine debriefing of of Bell Labora-
tories in connection with hia recent visit to attend the Popov
Boetety Meeting, 5-14 May, Moscow (see (—_] 6878 for Coordination Out-

; Line); subject mentioned having had recent contact with a Soviet Govern-
ment representative in thie country. The Soviet in question identified
Uhtmselt to[___] as Gleb Aleks-Paviov and gave his address as

- First Avenue, Wanhatta. ~~ 77

2, Acchrding toll} hie initial contact with Pavlov took

Place in late March following the International Convention and fhov

Of the I.8.E.E., 25-29 March, New York City (see Case 39343). At the :
couvention[__} became friendly with tvo Soviet counte; in a
attendance, A. V. Tiel and Anatole Trutka, both of vhom invited +
to his home for a social vicit during their US stay. When the Sovs :
departed foFhome following the convention, [El gov 'enaal ate et Hew

York International Airport. It vas at the airport that he first met

Pavlov, vho apparently vas seeing off all of the Soy I.E.E.E. delegates.

After the Sov delegation had departed, Jand Pavlov returned to *
Manhattan together end, on parting, exchanged addresses. :

3._A couple of weeks after their initial meting, Pavlov tele-
phoned] at his home and told him that Tiel and Trutka had asked
him to send their varmest regards to and thank him for the
honpitality which he shoved them during their trip to this country.
During the conversation, Pavlov expressed an interest in renewing his
acquaintance with and suggested that he would enjoy visiting
him at his home in Madison, New Jersey. said that he would
enjoy seeing Pevlov, but that he was currently preparing to leave on
a trip to the USSR and Burope and was not scheduled to return to the
UB until late May. [___] suggested that, in view of this, perhaps
early June vould be 4 good time for them to plan on getting together.
Pavlov replied that he, himself would be in the USSR then, but would
contact when he returned in early July. Incidentally, Paviov's

cp atlached :

SECRET

SENSITIVE /06 4d



SECRET :
SENSITIve

. Oa

Subject: Apparent RIS Interest in b

Bell Laboratories

, Phone call to was made on & pay phone. In fact, when the opera-
* tor cut’ in for overtime, [ called Pavlov back at the pay phone.
mentioned thet he possibly might have the phone number written

dow. somevhere. -
4, after the phone call from Pavlov, called John
McVicker 6f the Stete Department and inquired if any clearance of
Pavlov's od. -p to his home in Medison would be neceseary.
NcVicker told |_ that any such clearances vere Pavlov's worry
and that he need not be concerned about. same.

3. During bis recent trip to the USSR, it vould appear that
(~~) waa exposed to two incidents which possibly could have been
ef opposition fabrication. One involved an approach by a Soviet
interpreter by the name of PHU Petrov, who took aside and
asked him if he could do him a personal favor by getting him a sub-
scription to Rational Geographic Magazine for vhich he, Petrov, vould
DP pa eseemry 53%

reizburse| in rubles. politely reuse.
ce nF ot ybsr
|» The other incident, ovolved being Ghotographed with:
we att: ive young femaleinterpreter, Ludmilla'Oshkina. According
to when one of the Goviets in their party vas about to take

@ picture of him standing next to Ludmilla, another individual stend-~
ing nearby vas pushed out of the vay aparently so that ha vould not

be included in the photograpa. ‘tion, Ludmilla attempted to
strike an affectionate pose with for the photograph by slipping

her-arm through his. [____] claims to have pushed her arm avay just
as the photo was being snapped.

oe sement of [ _} Subject atrikes us as being extremely
naive and unrealistic. fe appears to be more apprehensive about his

dealings with CIA than his dealings with Soviete. In fact, when
was asked if he would mind if a tape recorder were used for debriefing,

he became very nervous and expressed a fear that, if such a tape vere
‘mada, perhaps the Soviets might gain access to it and use it sgminet,
him in some vay at a future date.

had ah outline in bis om handwriting of the sessions of the |
Popov Society Meeting. When we asked for a photostat of same, he
again expressed misgivings and indicated that he would prefer to bave
a typewritten copy prepared for us instead of a copy in his ovm hand<
vriting because he vas fearful that it might fall into Soviet hands.

suse 70 OQ



a _ SECRET
"SENSITIVE

Subject: Apparent RIS Interest in

Bell Laboratories

We inquired of vhy he had not mentioned Pavlov to us during our
defensive briefing him before his trip. He replied rather nebulously
that it was his understanding that it was company policy that our only
function in seeing him before hts trip was to give him a defensive brief-
ing, and that, since no debriefing vas involved at the time, he felt no

obligation to volunteer the information concerning Pavlov.

It 18 our opinion that

Js obvious naivite, apparent lack of sophisti-

cation, and.extreme apprehension concerning dealings with our Agency would
wake him most unsuitable from the standpoint of operational utilization

‘by the Bureau.

* 8. We would strongly reccamend that all of the above be passed to
the u ASAP in order that that organization my effect contact vith

approaches by Pavloy or other Sov legals in US.

SECRET

SENSITIVE

in time to provide him with proper guidance concerning any further

OLA



Gereayy Wcartronies Basinacr

$e Tiinerary Bihjet departs UG 3 May for Kecoow to attend

Popov menting, S14 May. Pollowing Moceow nesting
be Will vieit labs in Western Barope for aggrominately ene

7 moshing fa We
Releitves er eles friseis in dented syease Bane.
Batext of trips to denied creas: Buzo.
ézalyaia ef Bisjert's Guapstcnses Pa. Stare Golless, B.8.,
BeBop Galuxbia University, Made, 195%) US Amy
BEAAY, Pbbebs, on “
ip Botaves B8.Gal. UEAFR Eocber (Civiltes}panal oa
Beard, Dogs ef BaFense, 1948-53.
Eeoms af essesenest; Buring cor Maitea releticestip

fe well reguiéed in his tials ef exejetense.
Batare cf schatuntive pedhey sentenced ne titted
aay



eral
UEC face Pe) and 204 we Nanne

COUNTRY USER sree sc, oo fy Gen

WBACI Alleged House Arvest of Soviet” vated pe aaa eiceraraey
Botentist, L Chistovich areca
om 1 NO PAIES
N° Peres

Be 1s an authority on acoustice.

-} 1. I attended the Taird International Congress on Acoust
Stuttgart, West Germany.

@. While at this Congress I met a Soviet female scientist, & Chistovich,
who is connected with the Pavlov Inatitute of Physiology, Leningrad.
One day during the Congress I took a valk in the Hlack Forest with
L Caiatovich and another Soviet scientivt. After a short tine, the
other Goviet actertist excusel himself saying that he had to rejoin

hie colleagues.

3. In Jume 1963 ) Qn acoustician with Bell Telephone
Laboratories, vee in the USSR. On his return to the US he told me that
he had heard vhile in the USSH that, L Chistovich, cn her return trom
the 1959 Stuttgart Congress, had heer placed unler house armest. He
also said that he had seen L Chistovich while he vas in the USSR, and
he had asked her’whether {t was true ‘hat she hat teen placed unier
house arrest on returning fYom the Stuttyart 7 ngrese read
Chiatovich's only reply was to bluch.

E &, IT suspect that the inttviguit we net L Chistevtch t

dowith the
Oterw te WAL
ppest
have been the reason

: me.
that L Chistovich tovk a wnlh with
the was placed pnder houre aries

alone may we

he wone



Prt tgp A 7 22 627. ae wah. & “e.)

og nt Oia Bug tore Ve sua dav Perea
a aap hited teat, 62. Fetish 7 eee
: A

_ feos feck lam 4 kos Sue AE a
Fb) coe a ua Gost 7
eters 6 led 3) Lo. G2 gj 2.
y 7 7

8) Zens biked 2 hes 63 (lined. 6,

Servet QAM crwce. htictes on os;
B/ led, EECA 2b fof. £3 fitiet, we) lle) ee toy
Revit Llre. tt boserrec. Botevs nm 4S.

FB) &e FT bl OA Muck G32 [tnd BL t. vt
ke: — He LA; We os by
n Pedeen S63 lth be Ud (oles: bart
7. Sones re Sub poase rigs Les wn US, a
/b) Spt dts Said oy hit bs stor

fe de ywalies USE 3

: FB, D aard sth TL! 9 Lp ‘ 8 (Wek 2
/ a eae - BLS wy VG, Co us
a "DXF 23 tas 7 YE )OSeb P49. ai

_ Age freed 5 lke. QAloy pion ous :
fe) fh op bes [14 a og Ne)b- 6ougg-
Tins Sone? ed, bcd rybeee LB fhe > US- BS

‘B/ aA a Zeb 1G tb ” Col, OL C

aS $F Be. Sali suse. Leo rvifeas EUs,
Fp) cara Y Yon b3 [itch MC

Kh : pus fat (ns, SAE Lae. an ie

/ Ge oe ee :

St :

FE) fe pet tie Se te ELE Seg :
FB). ves ee Cru)

oa LD a

TOP SECRET CROSS , REFEREACE, SK
ER Sh

pwte7 Ceraeenct S$, ee Lf wt, <<. Lee be ste

oy |
