# 104-10227-10058

## Page 1

-104-10227-10058

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

22

INDEX-CLASSIFOTO ILE NO.

SIGMATURE.

ACTION:

CASAS 5.

03

INFO ::

DEI, D/DCI, DDP, ADÇP, C/CA 2, C/C1, G/F12, S/C2• 110D

SECRET II01AGZ

DIR CITE WAVE 7810

IMMEDIATE ACTION

FgPiC AMBuD

y

INI 5695

ROUTING

RIDLAN

19-114-257

---

## Page 2

...?

+ +I00-....

IT-LED.

CROSS

Dore NO. 7 CLASSIFIED MESSAGE:

101r-10

ACTION: SAS TO (RE NOTIFIED MO COPY SLOTTEL AT T/S

TANT 65)E

INFO : DC1, D/OC1, DDP, ADDP, CI, C1/OPS, C1/IC 2, F1, EE 4, SR 6, S/C 2

SECRET 012129Z

# PRITY :DIR CITE WAVE 6617

2 APR 1963

IN 98730.

EXILE COLONY IN UPROAR OVER NOTICES TO CUBAN EXILE ACTION

LEADERS PROHIBITING TRAVEL OUTSIDE DADE COUNTY. REACTION AMONG

EXILES APPEARS UNIVERSAL OVER THIS ISSUE AND IS ANTI- US AND

ANTI-KENNEDY• EVEN THOUGH NOTICES ONLY SENT SELECTED LEADERS,

ORDER BEING INTERPRETED AS APPLICABLE ALL EXILES AND AS

BEGINNING CO EXISTENCE. RECEIPT OF NOTICE NOW AND STATUS SYMBOL

2• AMEUD-I STATED THIS HAS CREATED MOST CRITICAL SITUATION

FOR BOTH AMBUD ORGANIZATION AND HIMSELF PERSONALLY DOES NOT

SEE HON HE CAN CONTINUE IN PRESENT CIRCUMSTANCES AND IS ADVANCING

TRIP ZRUETAL TO 2 APRIL TO MAKE POSITION PLAIN. STATEMENT

BY BOTIFOLL QUOTED I APRIL MIAMI HERALD WAS MINIMUM THAT COULD

BE SAID.

*THIS ACTION DOESN' I FOLLOW THE WORDS OF PRESIDENT

XENVEDY OR RESOLUTIONS OF CONGRESS WHICH ENCOURAGED SHE CUBAN

EXILES AND INDICATED THE US WAS GOING TO HELP US."

3. AMDIP-I REPORTED EY ANSHRUG-I TO HAVE TOLD OVENVY TO

RESERVE SPACE FOR HIM IN LOCAL JAIL AS MAS NO INTENTION OF

ACCEPTING TRAVEL RESTRICTION

4• REACTIONS OF EXILES RANGE FROM CONSIDERING THIS AN

ALLIANCE OF US WITH SOVIETS AGAINST CUBAN PEOPLE THROUGH SAYING

L'E SANNCT BE TRUSTED AS AN ALLY BUT HAS ABANDONED CUBA AS

HUNGARY AND OTHER EAST EUROPEANS ABANDONED.

SORE CONSIDER IT A

BECI

EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC CONN

GRADING AND DECLASSIFICATIONA

REPRODUCTION BY

OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

•7и 401008 -10 90000.

---

## Page 3

PAGE 2

JOKE, THAT STATE DEPARTMEMT CANNOT POSSIELY BE SERIOUS BUSTHIS

ONLY AN OFFICIAL POSITION FOR THE PRESS WITH NO MEANING.

SO AMLYRIC I SUMMARIZED SERIES OF MORE REASONABLE COMMENTSE

!: AO FLOW OF SOVIET TROOPS OUT OF CUSA HAS BEEN VERY SLOW

AND

.i

IF SOVIETS WERE HIT HARD, THEY WOULD ABANDON CUBA

IN A HURRY. WITH THE SOFT APPROACH, THEY WILL STAY

FOREVER.

Bo THIS ACTION HURTS US PRESTIGE BOTH WITH CUBANS AND AN

ALL LATIN AMERICA AS IT CREATING IMPRESSION OF WEAKNESS,

CONFUSION AND UNTRUSIVORTHINESS.

Co WHEN SOVIETS OPENLY HELP COYMUNISTS ALL OVER WORLD,

WHY DOES US CONDUCT SUCH WEAK POLICY AND HESITATE HELP

CUBANS WHO WILLING RISK LIVES AND CARRY BRUNT OF BATILE?

Do RECENT CRAG:-DOWN EY CASTRO ON GUERILLA FORCES AND NOM

ELIMINATION OF EXILE ACTICH FILL MEAN END TO INTERNAL

RESISTENCS AND FINALLY ACCOW"ODATION TO AND

• ACCEPTANCE OF CASTRO REGIME BY THOSE INSIDE

WITHOUT HOPE FOR OUTSIDE SUPPORT, ONLY A MAD MAN

WOULD CONTINUE INTERNAL RESISTENCE.

GO AHRAZOR ALSO POINTED OUT ADVERSE EFFECT ON US PRESTIGE

IN LATIN AURICA AND ADDED THAT COMMANDO RAIDS HAVE VALUE IN

PROVING CASTRO'S VULNERADILITY AND IN ENCOURAGING INTERNAL

RESISTENCE.

7O AYCORE-2 EXPRESSED A GENERAL EXILE OPINION THAT THE US

IS THEREBY PROTECTING FIDEL, THAT CUBANS ARE SÉING FORCED TO FIGHT

ECTY THEIR ENEMIES AND THEIR FRIENDS, ON 31 MARCH TV INTERVIEW.

AMCORI-? ANSWERED QUESTION ABOUT WHETHER US WAS AGAINST ANTI-CASTRO

CAUSE BY SAYING, "IN THEORY, NO, BUT IN PRACTICE IT LOOKS LIKE

L SEEKEL

---

## Page 4

÷ 6617

Or.

PAGE

CLASSITIEO MESSAGE

IT IS BEGINNING TO BE."

APRILL-I SUMMED UP MATTER BY SAYING EXILE COMMUNITY

SHOCKED BY THE TRAVEL PROHIBITION AND CONCLUDES ANTI-COMMUNISTS

BEING PUNISHED®

SECRET

SECRET

---

