# 104-10071-10018

## Page 1

104-10071-10018

IINCLASSIFIED

SUBJECT: (Optional)"

FROM:

AS ERNAL

ONLY

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

CONF

ENTIAL

SECRET

CI/Ober

TO: (Officee designation; room number, and

building)

1.

2.

DATE

RECEIVED

FORWARDED

EXTENSION

5847

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

NO.

B-173

DATE

19. Sept 1968

COMMENTS (Number each common lo show from whom

to..whom.

Drom a line ocross column after each comment.).

EYES ONLY CI/SO Internal Use Quay

Originated by:CIOP/DO

(19 Sept

68)

Based on:

Clarte, Belgian

Communist Party

(Marxist-Leninist)

9-15 May 1968

Disseminated to:

FBI on

1920 Sept 68

7.

10.

11.

12.

13

14.

15.

FORM

7-62

610 USE PRONOUS

EDITIONS

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

752/

File. B-Memos (record copy)

CC:

(soft) (w/enc)

CN00

CC:

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

B-173

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SEENET

NO TORION DISSEM NO DISEM ADRONS

19 SEP 1968

!. SUBJECT: Stokely CARMICHAEL

1. - Attached is a copy of an article appearing in

the 9-15 May 1908 issue of Clarte, weekly newspaper of

the Belgian Comnunist Party (Marxist-leninist) covering

an interview with Stokely CARMICHAEL that was published

in the 1 May issue of lumanite Nouvelle, newspaper of the

French Communist Party (Marxist-Leninist). The interview

was conducted when CARMICIAEL was in Paris, France.

2.

Also contained in the clipping is a report of an

interview on Radio Havana with CARMICHAEL following the

assassination of Dr. Martin Luther KING. CARMICHAEL waS

in Havana, Cuba, at the time.

PLEASE TRANSMIT REPLY VIA LIMOOD, MR. S. J. PAPICH

Based on Clarte, Belgian Communist Party (Marxist-Leninist),

9-15 May 1968

nelosure: as stated (one) lied in Camihad sens silt)

SECRET

NO FACTOR DISSEM NO DECIM ABROAD

L3 926

---

