104-10180-10193|

¢inl

‘baxen mrisiener but Gulllerr.

1960

ne
ees [|
yas
securet by turing the past 30
; fren his ceversati th Guille ela, Jesus, Fernande,
rtel te

E -,alentin, Graciela, Varche, Pace, Atha, ete. ani is ore
@1°- an appreciation of latest happening ant present ‘situatie:

His tery:
te take up arms in Uscambray asyainst Sastre
country. As time-went en, ether or eups t ens and started te ererate in
different. zenes threugheut the Escanbray, Seme ef these crev were Sinecie,
Benvive, Ouqua, ‘Alba, tamirez, etc. etc. as reperted, Guillerme, whe is
knwen and liked..in “that -zene as the ene respensible fer she II Frent ef

in Uscanhray.

ease check previeus reverts fer accuracy. ise was the first ene
shertly after his taking ever the

well
fecantray in the fight against Batista, went te the zene frem Kavana, prebaby
in the first) quarter, ef 1960 te erranize hia en creup and ererate a clandes~

tine raise statiens Guillerme ha2.a nadie statien hidden and left trem the
previeus fight against Batista, as'vell a3 Sene arms and flags hidien in the
gene. Julllerue did net take up arms at the time. S preup was getting 6re
werking undeh cever’ er he and ethers were surprised semetine
therabeuts. At that tine sene ef Uujlier: 8 creup. vere
t away and care te Savana were be rerained
TAY»

Poteet testis yt » availinpscentact frem the *

hddd

The ‘ompany had evitently premise! tir ant his bretier njt* suprerty
pr ly at the time Guilierrne, lanche and ethers in t fA public
thelr stand against cermunism sesetime in 1959. Final entacted
Guilierne there when inst ractiens were. given te get hir mas Le

“waa then trained by the eae aid specific plans ef actien ant
were eviiently agreed en. Guill as sent ovack seretime in lattes part ‘ef
ere er hepinins of August 1960, with the ebvieus instructiens te ercanize

avana ani ‘then mreceed te scambray te ceerdinate and epen up

t thers.

e
wan Sighting en his ewn and each 2
ergenal arreanc: anted te be the
n Seo.eameGuillerme left fer - say with Jesus and Benny. In "La “eza™
they jeined a Capt. iecter an} et! that were al te Jineciets
P In Hee del cus Toe Septenhar 27, with a
4, ours delay Lecause J Bre net make centac as
as planned with Guillerme url returned te Havana under Jesut
fears. On the way phe party. 4 gene milictanes frem a ceererat
and 3enny was taken oristerer. At nidnight Sept. 27-24 radie centact was
made a, scheduled with the vase but Jesus did NCT received thea hase in hig
sete Inte belief that theye did net make centact at all with the hase,
the greun preceed te the last step hefere Sinecie's camp, which is 1»
walk fren said camp in Pice del Tuerte. Sinecie was surreundad cy tr.

wand the arty could net preceed and awaite! there until a breach could Pe oat

te there the party heard ef the drep infAnabanilla. t being able
3 cep, Suiller the decter and Jesus 3 ete te

trades é
te preceed te Sinec

backtras The rest of the party re
continue ani reach Sinecle's camp. “niller
retusned "La Meza" aft up their equipment in the last sten before

retisning (fernandez's fur:
ene in “La Meza" and Guiller:
freu ‘La Meza” te Sumanayarua, eae
anetaer car fer hire a
were caisht in Curanaya A miliciane asked
them questiens and arrested t b ‘rowere net avle te fullv ntify
Lhemselvea er perhaps T nad aheut "OtIneses
hidden in necks, anicture
iH ni hin hew te
was ceverine
the hack "‘Prietd.
capher that
2 the arrest wag!
maravacua and
ruces We a
ware he
Tact supstied

later, taki
and the tecté

pat the id

* piccure in Vavana. her
esus heard

@ Cer yuestio:
ceull ident

gave up his TD.
@ te Aewfeultur
ete ant pet bist areey



_

und

Clara Coregta

* geén. s3uad was erganize! ani sent on Be

Oct eb.
soaconti nued=<= :

tavak
enewhere. in Havana near his heuse. During the teedi everyene was presented
as caught with Sinecie's gteup up in arms in the Eacanbray, ani that Gui-
Llerme was caught when running away. Actually, seme ef them never arrived te -
“Sine ‘camp. Sene referts,state that Gineclets preup fought eff ‘the attack
until they ran st anmmenttien dnd then surrendered. Other reports say
that there was net much fichting. because apparently the camp was cevered
‘with a gas that rendered them useless, that a jeg-was then let leese to
vcaek them dewn and all ef them were.arrested witheut much ef a resistances
n ae rts state that Sinecie killed Benvives befere during an are
ment ever. as that.were drepped and which Sinecle claimed were for
e It seems there was mere than just ene drep, since the aner en Rept. 29
which was secured by the nilitia in "La Campana™, and that ayhspquent. dr eps
vhave veen received by Use and Duques's groups. during the a cennunist
eber 11 te cry "Pareien", but the
‘peeple “in general fren Santa Clara definitely yt the peistenersy sand
én Octeber 12 stacted amass cencer*ratien te ask ¢ merey ani ermutatien
of the death sentence, ane cemmunist geen squais -ernered the epen
cencentratien inte a church and did net allemfthen te preceed. It is net
clear whether infemtien en the Iscambray and Guillerne l@ake4 eut befere
after the al, evidently much ef it has L@&ed eut ani everybety is
afraid and rae r cavers waiting |e. see hew deep infiltration has been
accemplished. Thera has been a tremendous Jefheralizatien ameng the greups
cennected with the tray action ard the pesple in general, but it has
censelidated the ce vevaitienary groups at least in that zene. It
seems that the gr p in arins-in Sscanbray: Rise, hest erganiset, Quque,
ani ethers ara t ts. That there has heen
mere fighting in and the militia anit/er army has
we are fighting hack indfeating
and azmunitien which they iid
subsdquent succen2@il drepse

auctien «
ve dele

& Ce
net seen te

Observation: Guillerae re did accenplicha@ his nisster as he'never td
arrive te the ane ur is in the Escambray as Military dinater
for the Ce: daath has achieved the. uni“(ratien ef that

oo the fp pin eresal,e: ectal
neal “ feath, Guillerre wat t
place ir ‘iistary ind a cer:-en eviective. Ths
ism and were simple greup leaders, iuiilerne
Inet talk during Use taal ard Id set efter any cements fer er azainste
The pristeners Mee sed or even abused, except by vend of mouths
The tribunal pessened th oontence three Linesen Ccteber 12, despite
the fact that tere Killing Tulllerme tn
particular whe had. all joes ani steed in frent ef Filel astre and

rc university das. Ev: dently, the jury was

such death sentences weuld create
cially when Guillerme ani seme ef
ani made appear te be up jayerms
sqjual Guillerme stated thet 7 <Mave trust
were evecuted with auteratic guns and

so Fal an instant death at 9:00 p 12,
"la Janpana" Hy. The helies were Plecurned te Sansa
3% have beer returrel te the

frentpan. «ve rs
eS OEY “tae
ene with a cle

with Sinecie.
in Ged and in ¢:
Juillerme ant
a little distanc

