104-10102-10222) -
as

RETURN TO CIA
und Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

EFFORTS TO SPLIT THE REGIME
March - June 1962

Study of the Loci of Power Concluded i



EFFORTS TO SPLIT THE REGIME -

I, _March = June 1962: Study of the Loci of Power Concluded:
SS

1. 26th of July’ Movement

| A. ‘Power Groups in Cubs

ree
=

c.

Pomerat writer]

a . a.
“e.

ft.

be

s ; 2, The Popular Socialist Party, Communist
(Partido Populer Socialista - PSP)

3. The Revolutionary Director (Directorio
Revolucianario - DR)

Key Leaders
: ‘1, 26th.of July:

Fidel Castro
Raul Castro_

Ernesto "Che" Guevsra

Osvaldo Dorticos, President

Raul Ros, Foreign Minister

Ramiro Valdes, Minister of Interior

2. PSP _- Communist Leaders

b.

ae

Carlos Rafael Rodriguez, President of

the National Institute of Agrarian Reform
(Instituto Nacional de Reforma Agraria - INRA)
Bless Rocs, Member of the Executive Board of
Integrated Revolutionary Organizations
(Organizaciones Revolucionarias Integradss -
ORI)



U - ¢, Lazaro Pena, Secretary General of the Cuban
Revolutionary Labor Council (Central de
Trabajadores de Cuba Revolucionaria — CTC-R)

d. Manual Luzardo Garcia, Minister of Internal

eee - Commerce

a: ®, Antonio Nunez Jiminez, Executive Director

of National Agrarian ‘Reform Institute (INRA)
t. Severo Aguirre Cristo, a national leader of

the Integrated Revolutionary Organizations

(ort) .

g. Lionel Soto , Director General of Schools

of Revolutionary Instruction

3. Important Men not Clearly Aligned to the 26th of
July or Communist Power

: ° a. _Regino Boti, Minister of National Economy

b. Armando Hart Davalos, Minister of Education

c, Alfredo Yabur Maluf, Minister of Justice

d. Garlos Lechuga Hevia, Ambassador to UN

e. Faure Chomon

£. Raul Prumiites, Cuban Delegate to the UN

g. (Ambassador), a Inchsustegui, until
recently head of the Cuban delegation to the
UN

‘sR. Rolando Cubela Secades;' Ex-President of }
' University Students

i. Dr. Rene Vellejo, Castro's ‘personal physician
+

-2-

saat:



is C. Governmental Structure:

41. Predent Ruling Political Group: Integrated :

a Revolutionary Organizations (Organizaciones

Revolucionarias Integradas - ORI)

2. Future Ruling Political Group: United Party
> thot : of the Socialist Revolution (Partido Unido de la

Revoluciona Sociaj}ista - PURS)
3. Numerical Representations of Power Groups on
a ae _ Ministerial Levels:
; a, 26th of July Movement - 8
“b. PSP = Communist - 2
c. Revolutionary Directorate ~ 3
a, . Fidel Castro Appointment... ~-
(1) Raul Roa, Foreign Minister
(2) Rolando Dinz Astarain, Minister of Finance
. D. The Implications to the Power Alignments of Escalante'se
Purge:
1. The purge of Anibal Escalante Dellunde, Executive
Secretary of the PSP from the position of
in the ORI did not create a "split"
between "new" and "old" communists.

2, Castro's reasons for purging Escalante were Alnost

Certainly Aimed at:
+ "te. ., a. Reassuring those 26th of July leaders who

had fought for the revolution but not for

communism.



b. Putting the brakes on the PSP's grab

for power.
ce, Castigating Escalante for personal

"sectarianism",

A New View on Splitting the Regime:

1.

2.

Castro's purge of Escalante surfaced his

concern for the balance between the non-communist -

elements of the 26th of July Movement and the

“unaligned" government leader and the PSP -= "ola"

and "new",

To split Castro from the PSP would be difficult

and of questionable value:

a. The PSP to gain its final objective would
take any insult and turn the other cheek,
“It had embraced Fidel and would not let go
under any circumstances. To rise against
Castro now would not be opportune, and
would probably be fatal,

b. Fidel was now totally dependent on the
Soviet Union

¢. The only hope was not to split Fidel from
PSP but to identify, at every opportunity,
him and his government with communism, for

only the non-communist element of the 26th

of July Movement and the "unalighed leaders

4.



4 of the government could effectively be in

split from the government.

Force from attempts to create. suspicion,

| ? . 8, This conclusion did not preclude the Task
hostility and friction between Castro and
H

the PSP. ~

11, The Direction of Task Forcé Efforts to Split the Regine: —
A. To identify those members of the 26th of July Movement

‘cecal

and other "unaligned" government leaders who were for

the revolution but against communism. To date, there

is reasonably good évidence indicating that the

q following individuals do not approve of the communist
i. direction of the Cuban revolution and may in fact

be conspiring against the regime.

Eefine

1. Major Pedro -Miret Prieto, commanding artillery unit

2, Ambassador Gustavo Arcos y Bergnes

3. Commander Sebastian Arcos, brother of Gustavo rnd
& commander in the Cuban havy. Has been in Prague

. for some time on a training mission

4. Orlando Ventura Reyes

5. Manuel Carbonell Duque

6. Major Faustino Perez, former minister charged with

the recovery of stolen properties

iad,
i

-5-

Se re



Zp)

7, Omar Fernandez Canizares, Minister of Transportn-

tion. 06

n 5
NOTE: ae meer of tis gowp"st undoubtedly an
important member of this group of potential .con-

spirato: TFW has mad in unsuccessful but sustained

Conspiring in Cuba today is dangerous business.

are fearful men and neither easily identified
bs easily contacted within Cuba. -

Each of the above men’remain as high priority targets
within. Our main efforts to contact them ‘take two
directions: (1) The identification of suitable
intermediaries to them, and (2) the eventual use

of internal assets now. in place. .

8. Major Rolando Cubela Secades, ex-president of
7 eration of University Students. An M.D.,
f — a trained and returned to Cuba after
a _sfhonding ‘the World Youth Festival in Helsinki
ve 1962, -

9, Juanita Castro, younger sister of. Fidel and

Raul - recruited, trained and returned to

Capea

10." (Yajor Raul Jaime Diaz Diaz, Arguelieg!

Reporting from Havans through [EMSTRUT/1, the

“who
travels to Cuba for TFW fron{ where} } lives.
2 (0 08

eo tle eee : -6=

yo ee ty 25 —_—_ —_



ll.

12.

13.

Major Diaz is described as a "new" communist

by Juanita Castro
Raul Roa, Minister of Foreign Affeirs. Effort
to contact and recruit in October 1962 Apties.

Recruited and working for TFW is

Ft He resides in Miami.  TFW

is. presently engaged in attempting to resettle
the parents ee in the U.8. The deperture -

of the parents from Cuba will leave es

the last member of her. large family in Cuba;
This move of her parents could cause a final
break between the: who are already in-

tensely. concerned with their situation with

Cuba, Raul Roa remains a high priority target.
President Osvaldo Dorticos, An attempt to

7 recruit President Dorticos in October 1962 failed.

Dorticos was approached by a TFW asset in New
York during his last visit to the United Nations.
Our agent was "forcibly" removed from the

hotel whereDorticos was staying.

Jose Llanusa, Director of Sports in Cubs and one
time "Mayor" of Havana, Efforts to recruit
Llanusa_in May 1962 failed: however, a. total of

ten (10) Cuban athlets defected during the same

' period of the 9th Central ae and Carribean

games in Kingston, Jamaica.
‘

-7-

Leas asec
‘s 7



Housing in Cuba

Fir Z 9-2
114, Major Jose: Ricardo Rabel Nunez, Chief of Rural

refused to work in place but

Will defect. Contact is maintained inside

Cuba. Rabel states he will fly out of Cuba

with a "fat one" funidentitied) 5
5 - Ss

1s.

hired to

eeruit technicians for Cuban industry hes

. been recruited.

Cuba. He claims to be close to

the infiltration
Cuba.

He has recently returned to

"Che" Guevara

nd Minister of National Economy, Regino Boti.
may serve as an excellent mechanism for

of TFW chosen technicians into

16. Mrs. Carlos Lechuga, wife of Carlos Lechuga

‘Hevia, Cuban Ambassador to the United Nations,

husband and Cuba

is expected to seek asylum and break with her

“aesn the end of November

1962, in

-8-



HMMA - 19325, dated 10 July 1962, Mexico City

Station, KAPOK, dispatch with attachment.

