REAR EAST ~ AFRICA BRIEF
(SQFORN IM SLARTS, REMAINING IFO )

i. CYPRUS: //EXPLOSION OF A BOMB AT THE BASE OF A MORUMENT
TO A GREEK CYPRIOT IN NICOSIA ON 3 DEC 18 LIKELY TO CONTRIBUTE TO
A-FURTHRR DETERIORATION I= SZLATIONS BETWERN THE GaEEK AND TURKISH
CYPRIOT COMMUNITIES. THE INCIDENT FOLLOWED PRESIDENT WAKARIOS'
SORMAL,. BYE STYLE. UAPUBLICIZED, PRESENTATION, 70 rumise CYPRior vice
PRLSIORNE. KOCHUK OF THE GREEKS’ DEMANDS FOR REVISION OF THE COB-
SPITSTicw, SEPORTH THAT 4 GREELY CYPRICT PARAMYLITARY FORCE #E-
CEBTLY HAS GEEN RECEIVING INTEMPIVE TRAYHING UNDSR A GENE AREY
OFFICKR STATIONED OX CPERUS ARE ANOTHER INDICATION OF THE INCREASINGLY

TENSE ATMOSPHERES ON THE ISLAND //

2. KOYPT ~ SAUDI ARABIA: CAIRO MAY BE PREPARING A MAJOR PRO-
TESLEEL ChEPAeGe bev ESL fen on se) RAUU! SHABIA I8 ARTICIPATION

OF A BRT CHsAts OVER CHe VRUER NIRBEUAGEMRET TRSOR, RECEAT RGYPTIAT

AUTRES rat iNS

eer
ry
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIRITED

a
‘aaa «+ ft
f SHCART | ‘



wNFO
“MGR Te0-
a YB

MPLOREMECAGTS GAVE GED psa ge wS-SA0D1
RRIGTIONSEIP. THIS WERK BOTH TER renee’ amp Tus

“/Pump DAATEIL KINIETER OF COMMUNICEYSONS, A LEADER TH TUE
MOBERATE FACTION OF THE FSETT, SAS BEEN EASED GUT OF OFFICE AND

EXILED TO BEERUT WITH SEVERAL ASSOCIATES, BAATHIST VICE PRESIDENT:
BAER RBPOREEOLY 18 ALSO LEAVING THR CounriY. ‘wampast eremrrr, A BTRORG
BAATWIST WHO HOLDS THE LXY DEPENSE MINISTRY POST, WAS REQUESTED
A BRITISH VISA. //

//P@SSSURES POR A MOVE AGAINST BAATHISTES STILL SOLDING POSITIOXE
OP POWER HAVE GEEX CROP AMON: “ARAM SATIOMALEST“ ARMY OFFICKES
AMD GOTAARERET SOT 414 DRRIRING CLOSER GELATIONS SITH CLi80, FEES!
ORUT ALIF WAS ADPARENTLY ACQOIEM So 13 THR ACTION AGASUST TEE eats

BUT EIS BLE ry Ter wr $3 NOT VET cosas. ,'/



“aia A 268

/WRILE 7a ANTI-QAATEIES FACTION BOW APPEARS TO HAVE
BAND, THE FATE OF 4TH DIViB8iGN COMMAYDNR MASRAT IS ROT CERTAIN. &
DEDICATED BAATIIST, HZ REPORTEDLY Has SURROUNDED RAGHIMD IN THE Xx~
PSCTATIOR OF & SHOWDOWN. {7 HE BTILi RETAINS HIG COMMAND HE MAY
ATTEMPT TO REDRESS THE PRESERT SITUATION. //

//THE DECAY OF THE BAATHIST POSITION IW FRAQ I8 ALMOST CERTAIN
TO FURTHER UNDERMINE THE POSITION OF THE PARTY IN EWE SYRIA.

4. SOMALI: //A RASH OF RAIDS FROM THE NEIGHBORING SOMALI REPUB-
L168 IBTO KENYA‘G WORTHRASTERN REGION MAY BE THE START OF A GUEREILLA
CAMPAIGN TG DEMONSTRATE THAT THE REGION'S SOMALI .“uABITANTS ARE DE-
TERMINED TO SECEDE FROM KENYA.//

//1% BOY , GROUPS OF AREED SOMALIS CONDUCTED AT LEAST TEW'WELL-
PLANNED RAIDS INTO KENYA FROM SAFE HAVENS ACROSS THE SOMALI BORDER.
BRITISH POLICE ESTIMATE THAT OVER 300 SOMALIS NAVE BEEN INVOLVED IN
THE INCURSIONS AND THEY YEEL THAT THE RAIDERS' HIFLES AND GRENADES
PROBABLY CAME FROM SOMALI POSLICE STOCKS. RADIO MOGADISCIO BAB LONG
BEAMED V°TRIOLIC PRGHAGANDA BROADCASTS INTO THE NORTHEASTERN REGION .//

//SONALS QOVARNRERT LUFF TALS HAVE CATBGORICALLY DENIED IK

OS CWATANG THE ATTACKS 3 CCN ine Cu “DOS FOR OPERATIONS IR KERvA

THERE IS NC BABD evIPces’ f° Ragin 1 HERE, FEN) ALS. ERE Barmesiemaiere



GRD
un tex L
ion TNO INDEX

bees Cy FILE It GS IRE NES,

“So _paan you CH. 7G z |
GOVERIEET, HOWEVER, 18 FACED WITH DEFPICULY GEaiet ELACTIONS EKXT
MARCH, AND WAY GOGH FEEL COMPELIAD YO MENG GoM DIMDCT BETERIAL
ASSISTANCE, BVEW A WODENT AMOUNT OF MATERTAL GUDWORT FoR fal DIs-
SIDENYS COMD EROGL? Is A PROLONGED GUERRIGiA Wid 405 4 UEVERE
SCOMOSIC MATS om mmIER. //

5. NIGER: NIGER PRESIDENT 1oey*s COMMRULPIVE REGIME MAS
BEK4 SHARES BY TUS SUCCEEPCE. REPTANCR CP THe AOTHSETTY BY THE Com-
MANDING OFPICER OF 4 KEY ARMY COMPANY. AvrmR GEDMRTHO TH OFFICER'S
REMOVAL, PRESUMABLY BECAUSE GB HAD AGITOTED FOR CHEYAIN GEKEFITS

FOR THE ARNT, DIORY WAS FORCED TO BACK DOWF WIM THE OPFICER AxD
RES MEN MUTINTIEZD. AX AGREEMENT REPORTEDLY HAS BEEY WORKED OUT BY
TRTERMEDIARYES. BUT TH® ARWY UNIT REMAINS IN CAMP HEAR THE CAPITAL,
ASD PRE IFTEWTIONS OF ITS COMMANDER ARE UNCLEAR. (COEF)

6. ‘TORERY: TSE TURZISH CABINET CAIBIS PERSISTS, PRETWR
MINISTER THONU IS WAREUVEKIRG TG SHOT THAT Tee OppOSTTIO# JUSTICE
PABTY CAgmOT FUR + (<:-SaneNART AD MOST ERDOCe Its cOMBYTIORNS FOR
PARTIC LPATING @8 ONE POSMAD BY HIS REPUBLICAN BSOPLES PARTY. CIy!t ia

POLITICAL GRAMERS LOUd GN 4 “SHT108aL” COALITION OF aid PaRziss,



L

weer CHE One O762)
-PAGE FIVE.

7, PAKISTAN: THE DEATH OF FOMMER PRIME MINISTER SUNRATAROY
OEPRIVES OPPOSTTION FOBCER IN PAKISTAN OF THE ONG LEADER ABLE TO
SRITE YEEM AGAINGT cus aros SEGINE. THE O§POSITION WAS ALREADY
OISHEARTERED BY THE GOVERAMENT'S IMPRESSIVE SHOWING IS RECENT
BY-ELECTIONS, ALTHOUGH SOMEOPPOSITION LEADERS MAY TRY TO USK THE
S248 OF SUARAWARDY's OEATH GO FOCUS ARTIREGIME GEMEINENT, THE BASIC
EFFECT PROBABLY WILL HE TO DISCCERAGE THE OPROSITION STILL FURTHER.
(comp)

8. CONGO (BRAZZAVILLE): THE POLITICAL SITUAFION IN RRASYAVILLE
REMAINS CONFUSED 48D HIGHLY UNSTABLE AS THE PROYESZONSL GOVERNMENT
PREPARES POR A COMBTITUTIONAL REFERENDUM AND ELECTIONS,

BOTH Titk ABW CONSTITUTION AND THE CANDIDATES FOR THE NATIONSL
LEGISLATURE, WHO RUN UNOPPOSED, WILL PROBABLY BE STRONGLY EMDORSKN
BY THE VOTERS ON 8 DEC.

THE SUPERIOR PRESTIGE OF MONSNATS PROVISIONAL GOVERNWERT Lb4ane8
WASSAMBA-DEBAT SAY SECIME “IS ELKCTION TO THE PRESIDENCY WHEN An
ELECTORAL COLLEGE Pils Tat oe7° ee eeeemed
VER, 18 BOT CRETATE


a

13 wiEK

GO inpex oo
12 FRE IN CS ALE NO.

|
Soa a essa i SeSESEn Cetastsaaasssuiem cee
™° leace sxx- SE 2762)
WILL ACTUALLY BE ABLE TO WIELD.

4 BORDER OF LEFTIST GWIOWISTS A= YOOTE. LQARERS ARR AMONG THE
35 LSGIBLATIVE CANDIDATER, sowe oF raReR LRFTUOES MAY GET IMPORTANT
MINISTERIAL POSTS WHEN THX CABINET 19 FORMED LATE THIS MONTH, THEY
PRODABLY WILL PRESB TGE KGW GOVARRGET £0 APOET4-WONE RECEPTIVE
ATTITEDE TOWARD THE SOVIET BLOC AND MAY CALL FOR SHE ZARLY
ESTADLISUMENT OY DIviGMALIC RELATIONS FETC TES SSP.

TER UEFTISTS MAY. ALSO SEEK TO EXHLOIT THE TERRE SITUATION WHICH
HAS RECBATLY DEVELOPED REGANDING AEIGHBORING CABINDA, WHERE pORTOGUESE
POLICE PURSUING NATIONALIST INQUBGENTS HAVE CROSSED THE BORDER INTO
THE CORGO ow exter RECENT OCCASIONS. THENE WAVE GEEN CLASHES
BETWEERIGGEGEBS PORTUGUESE AED CONGC ARMY TROOPS. (CONF)

9. MIDDLE EAST OIL: MAJOR TRYERHATIORAL 22 OTL COMPANIES aND
SECRETARY GENERAL ROURAN! OF THE O8GARIT&TION OF PRYEOLEUM EXPORTING
COUNTRIES (OPEC) STILLE EAVE NCT REACHED AGREEMENT IN THEIR MEGOTIA -
TIONS REGARDING (ACERASiX, UT REYESCE Por wipeix EASTERN PRODUC ixG

iS TO RECCCEIEZES OPEC AS A RARGAINI>,



S76Z2/—

-PAGE SEVER-

WE IS NEGOTIATING, HOWEVER, ON THE 84818 OF RESOLUTIONS ADOPTED
AT AN OPEC MEETING LAST YEAR.

THR WEETRRE OT} ronscN eG OPRRATING IN IRAN, ACTING 48 LEED
44% YOR THE MAJOR COMPANIYS AS OFFERED A FORMULA WHICH WOULD I5-
CXBASE PAYMERTS TO THE MiDUIE EASTERN GOVEREMENTS BY ABOUT THREE
ASD 2 A1 : SSxt, SOT SCUES3r UP TO SOW HAS BEEN EOLD-
ING OUT POR A MUCH LARGER RISE, TSERE I8 4...3 DISAGRERMENT ON A
NUMLGHK OF HOAHTS RELATING TU THE METHOD OF CALCULATING THE GUvERA-
MENTS’ SHARES, ON 4 DEC 4 MEBTIAG OF OPEC SEPUESERTATIVES 18
BEIRUT ANWOUNCED REJECTION OF THE comsoarraa's paorosais.

ROUHANI'S POSITION 18 SOMBVHAT WEAKREED BY AN APPARENT TENDENCY
OF THREE LEADING OPFC MEMRERS--KOWAIT, SAUDI ARAnTA, Amo veal vo
TAKE A MORE PLEXIBLE ATTITUS® THAN @OUHANI SEEMS TO FAVOR.

THE OPEC “ewPrns (VEREZUELA, LIBYA, SAUDI ARABIA, OATAR,
TRQQ, IRAN, KUWAIT IMDCIUBTA) WILL DISCUSS POSSIBLE COURSES OF ACTION
AT TRIS MEST GSTS: CONFERESE ACHEDULED TO BE HELD IN SAUDI
ARABIA 24 DEC AT 6 CASS (CORRS

10, MOROCCO: THE MOROCCAN GOVERNMERT APPARENTLY I8 RECONSIDER: 50
A DECISION, AORN "SR MOET . 7G GENER OAPLOMENIC Laat wits

es jhe
AUTHON TES

RRR: COB GGT bbs THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE. 1S PROHIBITED,



feo. cite PO

este comes

18 vos aramsces
OFFICIAL ERFTABLISMEEST OF RELATOR, Caren Tur Boreer

a om, er einen no ee
FLY THE CUBAN FLAG AT HIS CHANCERYIN RABAT, CREATING SOME EEBARRASS-
MENT FOR THE EOROCCAN FOREIGE MINIETEY. (cour)

END OF MESSAGE

te

it ceomgrrtane bee : "
: ec
Vv REPRODUCTION 6- GineR THAN Tk SUING CARCE & PROMUBTED, fe

os TeSCer eae 5x
1s etna, WMD SULIRVES TeAT TuE RECEPTION OF tar Sei soca

