104-10179-10165}

DB MENO + 6074
24 January 1904

MEMORANDUM FOR : Chief, SAS/SO/AR
ATTENTLON : Alfonso Rodriguez

SUBJECT : Transmittal of PBRUMEN Internal Docuacats for
ANBANG*2, (DB Case #4406).

REFERENCE 3 SAS-64-7, 6 January 1964

1, Transnitted herewith as requested in referenced memorandun
are four TSD-prepared PBRUMEN documents showing issuc in the name of
Juan CARDENAS Mendez. Instructions concerning their use and other
pertinent inforzation can be found in Attachuent z, We are ulso
returning the photographs and one cf the negatives as requested,

2. Excopt for the agent's signature and aging, three of tho
documents are ready for operational use. Per conversations between
Mr, lof TSD/DB and Mr. Rodriguez, additional negatives of tho
agent in\e different pose will be requircd to complete the driver's
license. \ It is therefore requested that additional ID photos be

taken, 3

3. We would also Jiko to have at least threo specimens of
the agont's alias signature in the event it becones necessary to
forge other documents in this name either while the agent is in
place or otherwise unavailable to sign them himself,

4. IMPORTANT: Please retura the four perenne to TSb/DB for
validation and final chocking.

ik NOR. TRECTOKAS
CUIEF/TSD/DB

Attachment: 1 onvl, $
2. Alias Documentation
2. Instructions \
3. Photos and Negative

Distribution:
Orig & 1 - Addressee

SECRET

le <0 Cpe kha, 03

Ygp


’ Attachoent 2

Subyet Documanfala Ar BE MENG = 6634 :
Atlrang [1 ; an

1, The following documents have been prepared in the name of Juan
CARDENAS Mendez end are based on valid PBRUMEN exemplars and
information available to TS0/08:

Carnet G-No. 12473 - SINDICATO NACIONAL DE TRABAJADORES
DE BANCOS Y SEGUROS

Carnet de Identidad G-No, 11473 - CIRCULOS SCCIALES CTC-R

Carnet Laboral + A No, 750389
Licencia de Conduccion + 472628-w/plastic cover

2. Entries found in the documents support the story that Juan
CARDENAS Mendez is single, resides in Vedado, works as a teller in

a bank located in Marianac and can operate an automobile. The two Carnet
documents’ are related and were issued sometime in December 1962 when,
according to his date of birth, the agent was 32 years old, The nancs
of his parents seen on the back of the CIRCULOS SOCIALES card were
(chosen by TSD/DB, His Carnet Laboral was issucd in mid-1902 and the
driver's License sometine in nid-1963, These documents are not
backstopped and’ should te used for identification purposes only. The
agent’ should be instructed to study his documents, memorizing important
entries such as dates and place naaes, He should have complete

confidence in then,

3. To completo the fill-in the agent should sign his documents, in
i alias, a3 follows:

Using any blue or blue-black ballpoint pen, sign on the
front of the two Carnet G-docuzents on the dotted lines
above FIRNA DEL AFILIADO and FIRMA DEL TRABAJADOR. .

With a difforent pen, not necessarily ballpoint, sign on L
the line aftor FIRMA on the opening page and again on
page 1 after FIRMA DEL TRASAJADOR of the Carnet Latoral.

The driver's license should. be signed with a th:
on tho tab marked TALON PARA RENOVAR on the line above
H FIRMA DEL INTERESADO,

IMPORTANT ~ The ‘agent’ must sign in alias five.times. Sefore EACH time
he should practice on a separate sheet of paper. ar
. :

S Fle: Armas y

iow
arrarr)

Slit -



Attechweat 2

Page 2
DB MEMO = 6624
24 Jan 64

The driver's license was issued in nid-1963 and expires
It shows that this is the bearer's first
He is

4
30 Novenber 1964,
license and that he must wear glasses while driving.

not licensed to drive a truck or act as a chauffeur,

S. Please return al) documents to TSD for validation, after
fagent has signed them.

SEcR=y

on

the

Hy

