# 104-10177-10181

## Page 1

104-10177-10181

STi.

1286501.

8 00-0;

ADFORD OR COVERT AOSEOSNENT

Ials Seport or Covert Assescmont Is entrusted to C. iM/SA.

It may be retained in

operrsiol personnel ille.

even lurther interpretation ni

intomation provided

individuel 1o desired, please contact the Ascessrent end Evalua-

cion Stoif, MS, extension 3247.

Name: Victor PANESUS Batista

Detes of Assessment: 5-13

August 1064

Date, of Birth: 13 Septenber 1920 Eduention: 4-5th grade level

Official Requesting Assessment: Bob Wall: JNWAVE

Projected Job Assignment: PM/I

CONMENTS:

Mi°• PANEQUE wes one of six members of the

radop trainees

who were given brier psichological essessments on 3-13 August

were given e sroup baitery oi ability

tr questionnnires, and even was inter lewed for at least on hour.

checked personall

The test bettery concisted of e serles of measures of

non-verbal Intellectual rostitles, involving principally che per-

ception of reletionships betreen

manipulation of numbers end aunerie.l concepts.

has not be used extensirely with Cuban groups, experience with

it elsewhere suggests its usefulness in predicting adaptabillty to

the intellectual demends of treining.

On the attached forms,

Mr. PANEQUE's neme apperrs on a scale which shows his periormance

relative to other Cubans tested to date.

Mr. PiNEQUE is

the sidest, least intelligent,

experienced member or the radop group.

The tests Indisate that he

hes little obllity to deal with abstract or symbolic cspeces oi

a problem.

training cide will be or little value to him;

rather, acturl nori on the

equiament and considerpole time or

pirotice will be necessary to

marcel the susic Sxiils.

Inther simple men ino:

throuch circunstrnces, menaged to atiain e

position of comnand end prescide.

lis past 'success eppeer: duc

maro to his outgoing. sressive, and coli-onf. dent manner than

in intollectual

abilltie:.

Whether he will be willing to resume a

subordinate position on : term is coubtfu:.

it ?: aulte

ilkely thet he could Ina vould ettempt io cominace rud coniroi 1

teem lerder who has not ted the experiences and positions or leader-

ship that he ravacus, bes and in the past.

Morevier, he socas 10

be a rather indepencent inali dued who mart, enose

in entirtclos

either on his omn or

• KUBARK. 011-17-**1:

RETURN TO

Background Use

RUO

Do Not Reproduce

2u-2J6312

---

