# 104-10073-10109

## Page 1

104-10073-10109

SH--

Chief of Station,

INFO.

14-3

FROM

Chief

WOMUSE

:02

SUBJECT

RYBAT HACHAOS

LARVI

Transmittal of Transcripts

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES. J

MARCED FOR. INDEXING

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED DESK

CAN JUDGE INDETS S

Forwarded. herewith are transcribed portions of GILARVA

tapes numbered 103 and 107.

Grace G. SHARPUGH

Attachment: a/3

Distribution:

RETURN To

Background: Use Only

Do Not. Reproduce

CROSS REFERENCE TO

Internal Distribution

2

CI/SO. 14-3

CS

Caronc

AC

TILARVA

27

1 - Chief, E{SC)

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

22

(OSSWY 10999

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET/RYBAT

CI/SO

OFFICE SYMBOL

C/CI/SO

OfFICER

AClagett

DATE

28/s.

DATE

2 7 JUN 1971

HOS FILE MUMBER

290-006-387/3

ORIGINATING

ТРУА

COORDIMATING

(27 June 71)

OFFICER'S NAME

Ridhard

Ober

EXT.

5847

OFFICE SYMBOL

C/F/SC

Foun

53

USE PREVIOUS EDITION.

09507.

RELEASING

DATE

25

16-711

OFFICER'S SIGHATIRE

& Selims

Fredotick Schilling

140)

DISPATCH

---

## Page 2

14-00000

0554

0572

S7::

0618

0629

0

bole have never discussed about people free muraria.

06 Because we had no idea how to contact then.

Yes, and also, because this was supposed to be a snall meeting.

Now 1t's smaller than small.

Yes.

There is a possibility to have a representative of the Austrial Centr

Urganizations of Irade Unions.

I have friends fran Austria and I think

exchange several couments--ca:

bleaves for Parliament.

... (something about Hungary, DDR)... Why do you resist every idea 1

No, but this has to be agreed upon if they send you. I have never ev

imagined that sonebody would be available from Austria.

06

00

0 (l

06

06

0l

06

06

06

06

06

06

06

OB

For instance, here you mention HAROLD (or Hal or Al??) GIBBONS (ph),

International Teamsters-- As far as I know, this is JIM HOFFA's trade union.

JIM?

A real gangster trade union.

I don't think so.

Well, it is.

Haven't you seen that film 'On the Waterfront"? It's ni

up with the Mafia..

No, they are very decent people.

Perhaps this HAROLD GIBBONS (ph)-although I think Ive seen that name

somewhere and not on our side--because this is the most gangsteric trade unio

in the U.S.

) I like gangsters.

Back and forth on this. Then on a more serious Ir

getting fed up with hcaring thatl

Juant a " perade untonist to

send out personal inviations to this Prep Meeting.)

CURTIS MCLEAN.

Well, anybody fron the ILIU (International Longshorenen's and Warehous.

Union, although your Big BORIS (AVERYANOV) didn't believe for a minute that

somabody fron there would come.

But here CURTIS NCLEAN, did he participate in the Sixth Conference

Yes.

Why didn't he core for the special

Because your Big BORIS said that this is

exactly the trade union--their

people--who are building the ships for Vietnan and

if the war stops they will

be unemployed and therefore in hiBit

period said nothing about indochina.

---

