104-10433-10050

i

PROCESSING ACTION _

MARKED FOR INDDCNG

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

‘ONLY QUALIFIED DESH
(CAN JUDGE INDEXING

song nt ES, a | weno
‘SUBJECT eee
0 Trevsmittal of vemo to Legal, Attache; 2

‘ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES:

iE

Please tronsmit to the Legal Attoche the attached mmo
which is. in response to his inguiry-of 17 March 1966.

Memo. re Martin inther King; an

2
a - os

Attachment: iB ? bo 766.

a)
4
‘

__30 March 1966 E?

of st
HS FILE RUMBER



13-00000

aR:

—

oo ETS

su-

inate atitiet i me SECRET

SUBJECT: MARTIN LUTHER ING, JR.

We have no information that Subject appeared at a
i rally in Bio date, nor does the Embassy have knowledge
of a future visit-of KING +o.

Any future information which becomes available will

be forwarded to you. ~ We have also taken due note of your

i
desire that thefMEMEEButnorities not know of your

interest “in Subject's activities.

@ ep,

law FY Er



13-00000

2 coda rar, ae
wage F-

penises Py S = ATT,

: nie 5 ea 1 CaN SFICATION Acer ST saree

DISPATCH FBI

catia Ezz SSETEEEEEE: et te ane ae RAPSED FOR INDD Arey
oO

= diseseeateepeeaaazuaiene ef Jeon equine
ia ONLY QUALIFIED DESK
an Ju06E 1NGOAH
Rou 7 ~ | int
eee eee ae wicegriut

SUBJECT

O Transmittal of Meso to legal Attache,

(h [AGTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

Please transrdt to the Legal Attache the ottochod meno

which isin response to his inquizy of 17 Merch 1965.

AMtachnent s
Heno re Martin Luther King, Jr.

Distributions

we

aa RE

1a

{ cross REFERENCE TO DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

30 Farch 1966

: CLASSIFICATION

PHQS FILE NUMDER oF.



|

SUBJECT: MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.

We have no information that. Subject appeared at a

rally in ito date, nor does the Embassy have knowledge

of a future visit of KING tq

Any future information which becomes available will

be forwarded to you. Lie have also taken due note of your

desire that. the authorities not -know of. your

interest in Subject's activities.|

a



13-00000

Chane ANE

( ity

PROCESSING AC HON

MARKED TOR INDLXING

eiuene “chter of Station, London | sore gums

ee oo 2) Se
F = _ Chief of Station, daaaaaaasaaee ee Le. menor
| ‘suaJECT uf

0 Transmittal of Momo to legal | Attache, Tondon

TETION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

i Please transmit to the Legal Attache the attached mmo

“which is in response to his inguiry of 17 March 1966.

Teon S. TOZALL

Attachment: a | ,
“Memo re Martin lather King, Jr. . Ord. Po?

Distribution:
2 ~ COS, London w/att -
y-° 2 @ Chief, WE w/att

Downgraded to

CONFIDENTIAL
by authority of

date Zz

CLASSIFICATIG

= LLL - og ~UI,
Lal _ pe tee Ler pectin

DATE.

‘GROSS REFERENCE.TO

30 March 1966

Qs AE NUMBER



13-00000

Po COMB

SUBJECT: MARTIN WAHER WING, IR.

We have no information that Subject appeared at a

rally in[__}o date, nor docs the Eubassy have knowledge

of a future visit of KING td

Any future information which becomes available will

.. be forwarded. to you. We have also taken due note of your

desire that the

authorities not know of your

interest in Subject's activities.

6S Copy,

JOO - OOL- US

ape PLOLhy

UBsgbietsh rites beeectoouit ae teesca ic} ”

