# 104-10071-10096

## Page 1

104-10071-10096

SECRFT:

«REPOICH

DATE

= 30::.1110188 1973

FILE - JEFFK

INDEX - YrS

TO. CHIEF, CHINA OPERATIONE

CHIEF, VIFTNAM OPFRATIONS

INFO

-CHIEF. FP CIVISION

FROM.

- CHIEF DE HASF. I

2P

16-41

1. ALTHOUGH THEY DO NOT REGARD HIM HIGHLY, LNERO MOS

PASSED A LEAD ON MA. L'IS K

IT NFP, A CHICAGO ATTORNFY ANN

FOUNDER OF WILD MASAS CORPUS. IN ADDITION TO ENERGO, SIr,ICT

HAS PREVIDUSLY CONTACTED WO ISH CHICAGO, WHICH WAS TOLD EY ITS

HOS NAT TO CONTINUE THE RFLATIONSHID. HOWEVER, IN TYE OFF

CHANCE THAT THERE MAY RE SIME INTEREST, THE FOLLOWING IS FOR -

WARDED.

A. MR. KITNER ALLEGES A CLOSE RELATIONSHIO WITY PRINCE.

NORDIM SIHANDUN AN MAINS UE HAS BFEN INVITED TO MEET

TUE PRINCE DIRING A FORTHCOMINO TOUR DUT OF CHINA. HE HAS SUIR-

MITT FD A VIMPER

OF MIME GRAPHED FLOLETTERS FROM THE FOUERNMENT

IN EXILE WHICH INDICATE THAT HE IS. AT LEAST ON THFIR MAN. ING LIST.

P. MP. KINNE? ELSE ALI GOES THAT ME HAS PEEN TOP HE

WIL. BE ALI MET TO OPEN A WORLD MAPFAS CORPUS OFFICE IN PERTUE.

ALTHOUGH THF CONNETT ION RETHIN THE TENETS OF THAT MOVEMENT AND

THOSE OF HF DICTATORSMIP OF THE PiCLETAHIAT ARF NOT CLEAS. IV

•ANY EVENT HE ESTIMATES THE OFFICE COLD RE SET UP FOR SES° 92.

IF WE WISH TO FIRNION THAT SUM, HE WORD OPEN THE OFFICE FOR S

AND ALLA IS TO STAFE IT COMO ETELY WITH MIR MUN PEOPLE.

2. PLEASE ADVISE IF THERE IS ANY INTEREST IN INVESTIGATINC

FITHER OF THESE MAIMS. IF THERE IS;

OFFICER IN ALIAS

16-41

7514

---

## Page 2

14-00.000•

PAGE 2 (VICA? 1757 SECRET

WILL CONTACT MR. KUINER AND ATTEMPT TO VERIFY HIS ALL FCATION

AND DETERMINF WHAT IF ANY POTENTIAL FYISTS. ER IMPRET

CHARLFS R.. ACHST FTTER

DISTR IPIT ICN:

? A CACHINA OPS

•? A C/VN ops

2. A C/ FR

SECRFT

APERTUBE

CARO R07R03

BIOTOSE

---

