# 104-10290-10056

## Page 1

104-10290-10056

0915:

1:':

{'€'

1!::

Charlotte Baston: 1?

5940

a3 Dec 63

MEXICO CITY

iz:.

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

3 B:C

1a 1

..: 506: 42/5

5.

9 DEG 13

DIFCORIS

ROUTINE

M3X1

rien

CITE DIE

86695

LIBIGHT LINUD

REY MEXI 6888 (IN 64975) #

1. ALL INTERESTED EDgS CO

NYXIS AND TYPIC BATTERS HIV: DISCUSED OPS TALL CE DIVERULD POST

OPFICE BOX LISTING REQUESTED REF.

TO MAIC SUCH LIST WIIS COOT

BIKTWEEN SIX AND SEVEN THOUSATE LOLARS. IF CONSIDENED CASSIFIED

ANO HAS TO BE PUNCHED BY MUBARKERS WOULD TAKE PROBAELY WINE MONTES.

IP NOT CLASSIVIED AND COULD BE GIVEN CINSUS BURBAU O CONTECIAL

FIRM WOULD TAKE THREE TO SIX MONTES. ONCE MUSCEED, COULD PEOVIDE

THRER LISTS, ONE NUMERICAL BY BOX MURER, SECOND ALPHAPEEICAS EY

1, 1.

SENTER OF BOX, AND THIED ALPHAEETICAL BY HAS OF PRISON ED

RECRIVES MAIL.

NOS OF OPINION NAIN VALUE OF INFO COLLECTED BY. LARAYAX

IS LIST, BY BOX NOOSE WACH ALBRADY IS AVAILASTE AND WOULD LE OP

OSK IN IDEKTIPYING BOX NUMBERS POUND IF MAIL INS

OR PHONE INTERCEPTS. ACCOIDING: PAST KIPIRIXNCH, MOST PRADONS OF

INTEREST WHO RECEIVE MAIL AT DOST PFICE HOKES WENT THE IN IN

ALTAR AND BACEIVE MAIL ADDISCE TO SAS, PASSPORE ALPRABETICAL

MISTIRE MOULD SE OF LITTLE TALUS UNISES MIAGES IDENTIFINS.

Can.

"****

IBCRET

arteratian

OFFICR

---

## Page 2

matesiss

UNTi

FEX:.

TRATE:

* 11)

FRON: DIRECIOR

I NO INDEC

Curte

363

.r?"

: 039

years de

9247

S02, 2.1048-5-2.22556

stance

Hyat

2022%

BEFERRED

PURTURMORE IT IS ASSIS L E

THE CATE DIR

O MarTI

AND ORGANIZATIORS.

FIAS RIZ

STATIS

FERRE LIST

TO SMS FOR ELVISH AND 112

IN COTIC DISPICE 70 8I2

QUINCY OF EXPEL

ORD USE, AND EA

SUPPORT TAR STATION CE PROCAN

FOR YES INVIORD JANUARY LISTIS

LIC IS VOID MATERIALY

R4277.06 K1

DE VICEY VIA TO VAIT

• TO IN SAIGAL OUR

RED SO TANT IP REVOUR LISTINES AS

CURRINT FAMES.

•mes sirens as wet a coser

tied

FOR PRE

CESSITE PIAPOSES SO THAT IN FROCHSHE FOR MACHINS LISTING

THE STATION CAN RACEIVE QUICKIE SKIVICH.

END OF MESSAGE

•-attached.

SAS/CI/Potockt

(drape)

WH/PO/A.

(drast)

WH/COPS

W

CP. 10 lit

*ERS

SECaST

one ashes ane..

•@Usta40999134

REPRIOUOTION DI OIL TIAN THE ISSÜING OFFICE IS PROMISINO.

OURICES

Capa fi

---

