CSTE

we
es EU ery : ene
® if . ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET . 2
re ae z PSE
7 PRIOR TO \
om Vy. rity in Sect. 2. ca Detach back ~~ '
flap and forward to If file no. and title showa are not
2. Destroy front cove proper, insert proper file ro. below
os records significant action taken or. and forward document to RID/AN. A“
comments requirizg preservation.
FROM:
Ruy
For ALL ADORESSEES
sees ‘VILL, IM SECTION | Of BACK. IF APPROPRIATE
ALwE CounenTe

yy

Roo DATE orricene
bh m0." eccanae _ronwnnora) minnie

Nl

+p sun 14 9 UH

a0 90
Ss
la
Ww
Se
reg
\o
<
-
)

3

fo 00:0 0

QO

oO

t
|
cf
}
|

O.

mc

atl, ;

yerer hk At leey
ened: J
poise ~ 7 te

i eye
ai) a a
eae oe HAND CARRY iat
a Ce deachad) i :
: @ aa i, i_ib Cal & :
a nae Whe poo
ry ee [> fe |
ia y 15,
{ © | perunymns pocumcir R CROPILMING BEFORE | c |
a { 'fP 19 FILED. | eta Ur a TQ DE RESTRIC |
pS bh —S Aaa era Po
eneaas y \
ee | mane TO o/s 997 a
zip | Ml remrexarams agen Se a ee aan a
ve 2) e CELE OELA 36513 i |


inj

rere ern itn Le nea ee en

DISPATCH SECRET eggs:

CTLA-36513

Chief, 1E Tabard ta aS

201-294855,

oe
Chief of Station, London Ryt

24 May 1962”

2 ae SS CEO ONE

KUDESK/AELADLE. Gacuan) |

FYI

OELA-36215, 12 April 1962

The following, according to Gu

general status of the investigations on. the leads

provided in the AELADLE cas<:

mith in

ol. Gacuan)has set up a special AELADLE rection
under (QMIMPED! comprising research and investigative

ry functions, which is physically segregated from other
(JAGUAR)sections. The personnel of the former({(D-3) re-
Bearch section were brought into the AELADLE section™4
and all’ normg}{D-3) research ca Soviet and satellite

1.8. has bee: uspended. The personnel of

the AELADLE

section are listed in the attachment (under separate

“ cover).

2. Foreign Office: Research and background
checks are being conducted on all personnel who served

in Moscow in the period in question. This

is a tre-

mendously difficult job atid will take months, and the
Yoreign Office category apparently will present the
most difficulty in localizing possible suspects. The
three following possible suspects are being recalled
from their posts in the field and are under investiga-
tion with a view to their eventual interrogation:

a
a. Tho female @rehivist) now wn} i

now in

en
b, The communicator previously inf —)}
[fre

ce. The individual who was to have been trans~

ferred from Moscow to]

io Only one person fits

this description aod he is being recalled; there is

nothing suspicious in nis background.

promise for turning

tea
3. Admiralty: (oat EDE) felt that there was good
a

a spy in this area

ain view of

the documents passed. However, he has only been able
to narrow it down so far te cightcon possibilities,
none of whom have anything loading to suspicion in
their files. He foresees, nuturaiiy, considerable work

in narrowing it down any furthor,

4. British Intelligence: Since ABLADL3's concep-
tion of British IntolIizonce nbroad included §HOTH)9|
service attache personne! and soms Foreign Offics sec=
tions P\(SMOrN) in conducting its research and investigation
of its personne] who served in Moncow in the period in

uestion (with no real suxpectsa turned up yet) and

a
O\QAGUA!
sonnel,

is acting on tho nervice and Foroign Office per-

{
|
1



CON ANUATION OF
bietdertced SECRET /-#Q5SS2.

; OELA-36513

5. Helsinki and Vienna: Since AELADLE was able
to furnish nanes: or identifying information for this
category‘! (SMIMPEDE stated he has about fourteen specific
cases thus far which will be given intensive investiga-
tion. le feels it possible that this may result in un-
covering three or four agents from the fourteen cases.

6. GuurPepe) g) stated that he believes it fortunate
that the AELADLE defection occurred at this time be-
eause it is bound to have a definite long-term value in
the tightening up of British security practices which
he felt were very insufficient. He bemoaned the fact
that he does not yet have a clear cut case (resulting
from the AELADLE material) to table at this time to add
further support to the recommendations made by the
Radcliffe Committee.

ren YELS discussed the AKLADLE case with him
on 8 Janel Sigirupeny) was still under the impression that
AELADLE was refusing to talk. lHaving been’so,informed
by FERNICH that very day, FELS teld Guryoena nae
AKLADLE was again cooperating./| SMIMPEDE) would like at
sone time to talk once more with AELADLE to review the
informaticn developed so far; in fact, let- him in on
the whole investigation in the hope that this will jog
his memory and stimulate him to further revelations.

Refi d BG

RICHARD I, FELS

Attachment - Idens.

Dist:
4 - WE w/att/use



4hj

ATTACHMENT TO OELA-36513

ABIADLE, SECTION

A. INVESTIGATIONS

nald Gonaid Symonds)
fonnie Reed? o¢
Wilitam Colfer oC

B,. RESEARCH

Patrick Stewart)36 $
Penelope Scrutton)?
_ GFrieda cmai12G ap
ob (Miss. fru MacKenzie)
ne other woman from eae unidentified,
but possible (oan use. A-King)

Ay

ae

Bay ereteae—colastaseicte

