104-10440-10050

: . - MUDONNAFOL, CEAIOND:VIBA 70 UOER- 20 MSY VEICU-REEVLEED HIS RETURNED STOCKEOLN.

\ 0 DAYS APEER HE ARRIVED STOCKHOLM OSWALD TRAVELED DIRECTLY MOSCOW. CONCLUDING

| © > QRIENNGE ARTICLE GTATES “THIS INDICATES THAT RUSSIAN EMBASSY (GTOCKHOIN) GAVE HIM

_. CACWEBA®,. ACCORDING RELIABLE SOURCE THERE WAS 8) RECORD THERE WAS ANY REQUEST FOR
USGR VDBA PROCESSED THROUGH BORMAL CHANNELS FOR OSWALD ANY TDSE DURING 1959 AND

coouimaring ‘orvienss
AUTpEMTiCATING
‘s z CRE? ‘OFFICER

i REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN. THE ISSUING OFFICE 1S PROHIBITED. Gialiee

ay

ee
ad



13-00000, .

G ;
1 NO INDEX
D-FILE IN-CS FILE NO.

FROM: DIRECTOR ; |: PAB PIRER

COMAN OUSSY BATU SHE WAG GON GR HAD MOED “OAT MR. LAB DO BAVANA WD LID ‘SHE
ORDER.” UR DRBCRIOED HDA AG MAS OF VIOGENCE AND MAPIMELY FULL, OF BATE AND INDICATED
‘BAT Ty FORSIRLE THI HAN | MIBOEED BY A GROUT. GH SAID GHB HAD WRITES
“OrRSON* ABOU BAD DO-SRESIOH BAD RAD OF TH18. 125. (a8 commer: ormsos 5°
“TATHPLAY POR CORA HEP 1H GESIVA) ‘ANS? EMER HOURS LATER MOTELAGE sOADH comMCTED
CMAN ROABEY HAGUE AND GAD “HOR INE OF THR FAIR PLAY FOR CUBA COBCTTER” HAD REEH
SLANIEAED AND TT WAS ANOEWER PEROCH-RAMED C38 CEMALD WHO EAD DOME IP. ‘ menace
SEDOD TO BE GLAD TO HAVE HEARD “CORNECE™ VERSION. (BQ8 COMMENT: MR. LEE MAY BE
UIRENICAL VINCERE THRODOEE LEB VEO REPLACED RICHARD GIMGON AS HEAD OF PAIR PLAY
FOR CUBA COMMIITEEE IN MEW YORK. ASO LEE HARVEY OSWALD HAS USED ALIAS 0. H. LEE;
BOMEVER WO TRACES TRAVEL 70 CUBA LOCATED AS OF THES DATS.

H. ACCORDING RELIABLE INFO SMETSLAGE WAS. Ti CUBA JANUARY 1963 AND ACCORDING
10 OFFICIAL DUICH BOURCE SHE AGAIN TRAVELED CUBA FOR MAY DAY CELEBRATIONS 1963.

END OF MESSAGE

* WE COMMENT - Requested liaison and station traces Lee Harvey Oswald.

2B enliriting Loci

RELEASING OFFICER

eoogormatine orricras

AGTMERTICATING
Orricer

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE.IS PROHIBITED. Copy Ne.
