# 104-10128-10363

## Page 1

104-10128-10363

SEP 2 5 1965

Chalrman. Honor Awarde Board

Acting security sardoor. HAB

Hones Awards Rocommendatione

Rel: Mano for Chairmas, HAS did 12 Sop 56 180m Mr. Robert Me Gaynor -

Subject: Approval of Fending Honor Awarda Boce

I. Reference memo requented that the Acting Seewrity

Advisor to the HAB revlew the cases contained therein to determine

If the citations and award, than proderad, may be retained by fae

recipants. With respoct to this roguoat, the following recommendations

are submitted:

1. Recommendation by the Securty Marines to the

HAB that awards and elations shenld not be physlenly

releanod loto the rocipient's personal curtody i FC8

OverDORA potll be roturna to Headquarters PCS le eratirmad.

In such cares there will be no security objection to

notllying the taltrida! that he had bees awarded the medal.

such notifiention should inform the recipient of aay

appropriate security restrictions relating to the award.

(1) First Presentation: roger Goiran.)

Joseph C. Goodwis

There would be no escurity ob-

joctions to giving the citation aod award into toolr

personal custody subjoes to paragraph la above.

However, with respect to Mr. Goodwin, Is 1s

recermended that upon his return PCS to the States.

his came be reviewed for paraible uncurlsy and corer.

Implications before phylenlly relearing late his

pereonal enstody she cilation and award. The above

ma renpect to Colant,

and Goodwin Ias the

Informal concurrence of the Deputy Chiel, NEA

Division. The Deputy Chief, FE Diviten Informally

concurred in the above regarding bro

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

6/p8

---

## Page 2

14-00000

40696

SUBJECT: Honor Awarde Recommendatione

03

(2) Socond Prosentation (sarl M. Marter)

(Thodore J. Rowsos. The Deputy Chiel, 85 Dirlalen

on % September 1956 recommended Ifarmnlly that

for operational reasons the matar of giving thi

sitations and awarda into thetr peresaal custody

bo doteranted at some later date.

(3) Third Presentations (JohaI Shirloy)

lanes w. Lair Rocommondstion

contained in paragraph le above. "3

(41 Fourth isesentation: Irasy Co Barnes:

David A.

-Phillian, Noster D. Sancher,

03

There would be no socritty ubjectione to saviar

those citations and awards into that personn

custody sujoct to parentaph in shove and cortat

stipulations as presertbed balow by the atvinien

concerned.

(a) The Deputy Chief, WH Division

Informally recommended en 11 September 1956

Chat the citation: partuning to the above

persons should be marked "CIA lternal

Use Only", (It is noted that the project wish

which those awarde are concerned vas within

the juriediction of the WA Divimion.)

(b) The Deputy Chiel, VH Diviaton

aloo stated that Mt. Phllllpa le now weder

not-official cover and he laformally requested

that the citation and award nit be phynically

«leaned into M5. Palllips" personal enstody

whilo ho lo nder such cover and mieo requested

that thie metter be revieved at more later date.

(c) Regarding Mr. Bencher, the Deputy

Chief. NEA Informally requested last sbace

Mr. Sanches was out of the States PCS for

8/1N

---

## Page 3

14:00000

SUBJECT: Honor Awade Recommendations

that Dirteted, that far nocurity and eonor readose

Bes matter ef phylee! release of both the

eltatios and avard to Mi. Sanchero personal

custody ho considored spon his retur PCS to

the States.

(d) Bogarding sir.

• Com

mmentions employee, the Deputy Chief,

Commuication. Divinier informally stated

on 21 september 1956 that for securly and

cover seasons tie matter ol phyaleal roleane

o both the clatten and award to Mr.

personal custody be considered upan hin

return PCS to the States.

(0) The Deputy Chlol. WH Dirtedon

Infermally recommended an 21 Boptember

1956 that Air.

he notifind of his award

but notten: the eltation or sward be phyafeally

delivered tuto his parsonal cuntody.

03

1's (5) Filth Prosentation:

Recommesdation contained to nararranh la abere

encept that in the case of hir

¿ Colonel Bobers

vi she Odice ol Earle Intolligence regunsod that

this citation bo marked "CIA Interall Has Only".

ns (6) 51ch Presentation Cantaro Barule:

Reconnendation contained la

paragraph la steve.

03. (V Seventh FrosenIntion, Phile G. Bower.

P3

Recommendation

contained in paragruph la above encept that in the

case al Mi. Doves, Colonel Sobery al the Office of

Bante Intelligence requested that this eltation be

mathed "CIA Internal Uee Only".

13/134

---

## Page 4

14-00000

SUNJECI: Henor Awarde Rocommendations

03

03.10

scorallon:

boweras, regaring Mr. Frye, the Emestve Offtess.

F's Intermally steted on 31 Septomber 1956 that the

conditions us bot lorth in sarmo fer Chairman, FAt

(sabjort: (Tsyo, Enaford D - Recommendation for

Intelligence Model of Merit) am Securtly herber.

HAB. Astod 7 June 1956, and not changed. la vlow

of this, he informnily requented that tan physterl

relazos of the cilation end award into the persoaal

entedy of Ar. Frye)nes to mada at this Asso.

03

(9) Ninth Presentation: Willem H. Marr

(posthumors) Focess recommendalion by the

Security Advisor, FAB in his sero ol & Jure 1956

With respoet to the leune. of this suard i confirmed.

2. la addition to tho abovo, the matter el pablietty regaretag

these awarde la pointed out.

.. -3

Distribution

31 • 08 Fles!

1 - FS/08 Files

1 • Chrome

---

