# 104-10183-10260

## Page 1

104-10183-10260

13 octoter 1969

ATE SORIND UN

RETURN TO CIA

Background use Only

Do Not Reproduce

.24

The brteting was hold in a rall luxuriou

38,06

08, 06

0б,06

latrended for the

present

03, 03, 16-2

were.

137 03

2o at the requeit of the

prefaced the operational brienne with a briel description

ol hot le cia Intelli jence contunity operates, us the

role or ils,

Of the need for coi part mentation and security,

and specillcaly of how the foregoing com terations case

it incerative sor the

ju icopt recurit, pre-

cautions volchill ensurs that the intermation se provide

ire undertitne

within the

Jund, in lack, dicussed

exclusively wiiour re-

presentives in the field).

is.

¡ollowing tro introductory reinaris vutline!

above, loriesed the group on the Deil structure, the del

operational lochniques din specilcall 024C airs and

operations in

lent cluse attention

throughout the brieting and elamined the excits closely.

Includins the leil intelligorce reguirersents

24

1o fter the dureguin espiton, l erplaner.

24 our ainis he sluttle the lidoration eith, reare to los

Jilapret

Distrus

734

14

124

19/pV

---

## Page 2

24

24

- 16/18

-2-

24

•ith refereinca

Of tie develop aents say plans

brellv'the.status ..tim

ficcause:

Ald eFlatned

Dand the poodledit,

lasich included!

:24

The

aditle is rather

tripaselonal appuch la wuch de cousredthe dollowin, points:

lis den lone ciperience In the dra, in cuta

and in Central nerica;

ile euri, rarnings diret Ciatr.r-which

were dare, aru.;

24

has ilved up

is winch it has

Jia chorta

Dand to

which it has loured toward Joc. leaderblup;

da: The fallure of the U.i, to tire agressiv.

actlon a airst. Cuba and the nood for taxing a

hard line, Inclurn; the use of force in support ot

militiry activity b, the free cubans and the other

American countries;..

is apprecution that thie sorlots will not be

"Illing to siss a nuclear var iver Cult;

l Conderonation us ilerico for her dealings ilth

cuia, for tailure to abide bi her obliatlon:: in

the Ung and for perittin, lie Castroites fu

operale out ul rienco agaut uther Anerican

countles;

Ka The need for action anainat siesico,

---

## Page 3

h. Tae effectiveness of dun unn actions asalnst

_vers:linal

hod hes determudion

tu meet violence tith violence:

incuntion of the unportance of the mossation

covered in the lüfetin, and of its exploitation;

Acceptance del security restrictions an his

deciston to hold tus information to those present.

In ropling lutio reriar

I said that de appreciato the cuperation

24

Jand that ise shall to muet interosted in the eglitation

of the poes! slitles la the present case.

ladded that the attor

of usin; fnrce irainst Cuba iy i policy matter on wnich I cas

nut competent 8o coricront ict that the decisions made ly tin

United fates Government are baeed on Carcial study of

detalled informal on Inebrelin, information on Sovlet infentions

and capa! ilities.

do it the conclusion of the reetin

abned for i cou; u the lul re utrenients (which ne alread;

had gone over closei, ) and toon the cup; with alin to : tudy

further.

Larold&. "wenson

Chief;

#1/SA/er

SECRET

---

