o0540187] 7 fo mee
ee ! ;
i il = ;

ual : Nfs

4

$

! t
Fe

IO duly 1963

MERORAIE POR: Chief, cYfoa_.

SUBJECT 1 oasse/, — eoLeseagb

Attached for your retention is ona copy of Subject's
H FRQ Pert IX. 4 Operational Approval. is hereby requested.

Desmond FitsCerala
Chief, Special Affairs Staff

Distritutica:
Orage & 1 o Hifressee v/ate

1 = SAS/Tos
2

| poi talons

piteo Tete
on
ert
Gn
Fac]
2)



pbinaefiapdeastsbceestsnsonstastAeteasistnseasitnns

it SECRET

~2* ae,

PERSONAL RECORD QUESTIONNAIRE
PART 11 - OPERATIONAL INFORMATION

‘INSTRUCTIONS TO CASE OFFICER

Cifieer oF eppropeiate authority on the basis of the best available las
bject.

SECTION 1 CONTACT AUD OEVELOPHERT

2. PSeuDONYN

7 INDICATE WOR. QHEW. SHERE, GUY, AND GY EHOM SUBJECT WAS FIRST CONTACTED Om DEVELOLOT

 qanouang, METER SUBJECT COULD OE TURNED OVER QUICKLY AND TH A SECURE WANMEN VO -AND RESPONSIOLE CASE OFFiceR FOR
rHow.

Subject was fitst contacted for the purpose of assessment on 9 Harch 1961 in the
Skyroom of the Hilton Continen Sity. This meeting was arranged by
AuWHIP/L in order for staff to exchange views with Subject and to
Open an avenue for future con! ersation was general on the subject of
Cuba's problems; no pitch was made,

Subject later expressed wish to talk to "friend o in Burope, and

: je to meet Subject in Helsinkd—m + there by staffer
He was debriefed and trained subsejuently in
Ss by Wa D00S Nadrid,

HANDLING. IF SO, INDICATE To

pubject could be turned over to any mature staffer. 4 good knowledge of Spanish 49
highly desirable.

a

Uist oven case OFF
SEEN KNOWN.

ISERS WHO HAVE WANDLED SUBJECT OR WHOM WE KNOES OR WAS KNOGN, GIVE NauES BY GHIGN THEY WAVE

rely tno by true nanos SInce-_ AtuwtiP hae th

Jack Stent, known only to him as "Jack",

p known es “Jaime”

78

po

Fone

ese | known as "BLM Thompson". Vp ew by :

fo Aku

a
SECRET ietell

3 10502 vse rnevioes corriens,



aed ; SECRET
SECTION :
he estiwate_sussecies worry
Subject feels that the true purpose of tho revolution has been abandoned by
Castro and that the Commnists are prepared to rule Cuba without regard for :
the wishes of the Cubans themselves, Subject turned to the USG for help as he
feels this is the only rover with enough interest and wherewithall to alter the situgtio

De not use stock comment such ov “ante

Be INDICATE EWAT CONTROL. IF ANY, EXISTS OVER TNE SuaJECT. (If no control er iV th
euplain.)

None. Subject is at best a willing collaborator, and judging froa hia lack of
performince to date, cozpletely independent in his actions and ideas,

@ tack of real control

SECTION Itt ‘COVER
1s COVER USED er SUBJECT ano CASE OFFICER In GnETE WECTINGS
Meetings were held in hotel rooms or safehouses. If necessary, AWHIP/L was to say
that the C/O's were friends of his and only met Subject by happenstance.

+ COVER USED By SUBJECT IW OBTAINING WIS INFORMATION AND IN CONTACTING HIS TNFORGINTSS

Natural cover as nilitary officer, and revolutionary leader,

INDICATE SERVICE FOR wHsew SUBJECT THINKS HE (@II work) (Ts corkingy

Never specificdYly mentioned. Obviously he aware C/Os were U.S. Intelligence.

SECTION WW
1. GxPLAIN SUBIEET'S RnOww PART

Suen connte rion Is tuoen ooearey,
Was former military attache and as such, probably coopted for other than purely
ailitary intelligence assignnents,

INTELLIGENCE CORWECTIONS AND TRAINING
RESENT CONNECTION WITH ANY OTHER INTELLIGENCE SERVICES INDICATE THE ERTERT

Br AIST OMER InDiviouALs (Azents, relatives, Friends) mio KNO® OF SUBJECT" PRESENT IWTTLLIGINCE ACTIVITIES

None known

.

EXPLAIN ANY TRAINING SUBJECT HAS HAD IM CLANDESTINE OPERATIONS:

has had secubity braéfings, S/il training, some basic tradecraft.

SECTION ¥ COLLABORATION POTENTIAL

+ AIO ETAE OIEER LORENGH POWER suasccT WOULD OE MOST LiKeLY TO COLLABORATE WiTW BECAUSE OF NI TOOCOOY Om PART
ASSOCIATIONS. EXPLAIN.

None. Probably would associate hinself with an anti-regime Cuban underground
if became disenchanted with U.S. Policy towards Castro regime. cd

2
SECRET

H

a

t
|



i SECRET
‘SECTION VE OPERATIONAL USE — CONTACT

We IF Suoster was ocew useo om ConTACTED BEFORF ir ss-are acre a WMiCM WE WAS EW7AGED “AL TAL T¥PE OF InFOR:
MATION HE WAS FURNISHED.

Not applicable.

- INDICATE HOW AND FROM EWOW SUBJECT OBTAINS INFORWATION

By observation and elicitation. ‘ould procure information from friends and
Acquaintances who are governnent and military leaders.

¥. WNOTCATE WHAT WAS OEtH TOLD SURIECY AB TO THE O/SFOSITION OF InvORUATION NE TURNIEUEET
Not discussed, but obviously aware it for USG consumption.

+ DETAIL SUBJECT“S PuaPOSED Fi OR Ci TvPE USE OR DUTIES.

To be used for collection of military 0B on Cuban and Soviet forces as fer as he
ds able. Could be used for gabotage missions if he directed firmly and purposefully.
7

il

OsED a TYPE USE OR OUTIES,

3. BETAWL suBJECT“S Pri

PROPOSED LIAISON OR OPERATIONAL ACTIVITY
4+ BEAN SUBJECT’s PROPOSED LIAISON TYPE CONTACT OR OPEMATIONNL user
4s RWERE SUOJECT 15 am OFFICIAL MEMBER OF A FOREIGN GOVERNMENT:

Not applicable.

8. MMERE SUBJECT 1S AN OFFICIAL MEMBER OF AN OOYOKE AGENCY®

SECTION Vit

Ye EXPLAIN MATURE OF AGENCY RELATIONSHIP
PERSONKEL KNOWN To SUBJECT.

Agency personnel: see section 1, para 3.

AGENCY RELATIONSHIP wiTH SUBJECT
YH SUBJECT: 1.£. TRAINEE, OPPOSITE NUMBER: REMUNERATION, IF anv: AGENCY

3
SECRET

ft

+ Tegavanianiiaiaemenciiy, Sinaieaarumtaabinselab dae ret tioincauntnacsinchnan ese tnsnate SdntbAesinnat qe emettnnnchie



sae. seep ation

SECRET
QUALIFICATIONS FOR GTHER OPERATIONS

CIAL ABILITIES, TALEWTS, OR QUALIFICATIONS FOSSESSLO ey SUBJECT mHICH COULD CONCEIVAGLY Bf OF vaLut
‘OR OTHER OPERATIONS.

Has deaonstrated ebility to fora and lead guérrilla forces, including firefightas

COHTHESTS:

+ IFAT 15 PROPOSCO To PAY SUBJECT A REGULAR SALARY, UMDICATE THE WEEKLY AMOUNT. IF PAYMENT 10 BE WADE Im Encwawet
COMMODITIES, SUBSIDY OR OTHER METHOD. SPECIFY AND Give DETAILS.

No paynent contemplated. “ay institute soze forn if it will serve aa an incentive,

2. EMPUAIN ANY PROMISES. OTHERWISE NOT COVERED WEAEIN, MADE TO SuaJECT. (Example: Comoitments cegatding evacuetson
ef subject and fanily.)

Nones

SECTION Xt CE AMD SECURITY

INDICATE THE FLELD AGENCIES AND FIELD FILES WITH mMICH SUBJECT”S NAME HAS GFE CHECKED AMD TwE RESULTS.

Sybject has been granted POA by this Agency. Appropriate checks are assumed to
have been made on Subject.

+ INDICATE OTHER INVESTIGATIVE MEASURES TAKEN TO VERIFY BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION FURNISHED BY SUBJECT.

era eon Sete er ROU SLONAL OPERATIONAL APPROVAL OF OFKRATIONML oo Tas Dai eaaast We!”

PROVAL Fon suNscCT'S UEC mas DEtw PREVIOUSLY eotAINED,
POA obtained. 2B/WLS/ LIER.

> EVALUATE SUOJECT-S CHARACTER, Ses SECURITY, CITING EVIDENCE mHCRE POSStBLE.

. ’
S’bject 1s an intense, \cwtitabie yerson, given to action first, reason second, on

oécasions where frustration gains the upper hand. ile can be coldly calculating, once
@ plan of action has been decided upon. The somewhat routine and tedious requirezents
of good security practices in cland-stine operations ere a bit distasteful to subject.
At the sane time, he would not noraally take risks with obvious overwelming odds aga:

> EXPUR RORY situation on

CEPOPEMATIOWAL SECURITY vi

None knowa.

SCRETION IM BHICK SUBJECT WAY MAVE BEEN INVOLVED WHICH MUST OE EVALUATED Fhow &
oo

SECTION XSi ‘SUBJECT-S PERSONA HABITS

1. USE OF LioUOR. DRUGS: GaMGLIMG, PARAMOURS,

Uses liquor moderately. Enjoys mistresses. Alleged from several sources to be
“Bi/td#é 2 homoséxial, or at least tendencies in this direction.

.
SECRET

{
i
|



SECRET.
‘SECTION KIT ‘AVOCATIONAL INTERESTS

We INDICATE suasect" HOBBIES Om INTEREST IM SPORTS, WuSIC, ETC:

io indications of any interests strong enough to be considered hobbies. Frofesses
to be interested in architecture.

GENERAL,

+ INDICATE @NETHER SUBJECTS LANGUAGE ABILITIES AND OTHER CHARACTERISTICS, ARE SUCH AS HE COULD PASS AS A WATIVE
OF A COUNTRY OR REGION OTHER THAN HIS eX. EXPLAIN.

Could probably pass as a native of almost any other L*tin American country, providing
he adopted their peculiarities in speech.

i

“INDICATE WHETHER IwFoRMATION IN PRG PARTS | AMD 11 WAS OBTAINED GY RESEARCH, CLANDESTINE ASSESSMENT, FILES.
CORRESPONDENCE OR OTHER HEANS. i

Obtained by research, files, assessment, elicitation, direct questioning of
his friend, AiWHIP/L.

UF OTHER THAN ROUTINE ACTION 15 REQUIRED, IF AND WHEN TERMIMATD
see 438, aupea)

OF SUBJECT [5 EFFECTED, PLEASE EXPLAIN. (Al#o t

None requested. |

SECTION xv HERGENCY CONDITIONS RECONTACT ARRANGEMENTS Hy

tf SIVE FULL DETAILS 1.E. RECOGNITION SIGNALS, 5/m: BWERZ COULD CONTACT BE WADE! WHAT OONA FIDES COULD INDIVIOUAL
MARING CONTACT USET

Not applicable. Only contact conteyplated is thru S/W or by C/0's already know to i
Subj, should he be able to exit Cuba sometime in the future. |

MISCELLANEOUS OPERATIONAL DATA AND REMARKS

Subject has only corresponded by S/i! once since his return to Cuba in September 1962.
There are, freports, however, that Subject has tried through mutual firends to |
contact or get vord fron ANJHIP/L. Three separate attempts have been made to re- :
establish contact with Subject through the use of the mails. Outcome of last and
nost direct attempt is not known at this writing, SAS is prepared to give Subject
benefit of the doubt, until it definitely established that he wishes no further
contact with USG representatives. i

9 July 1963

5
SECRET.

oo How ainathaticenni ai Sn eet RR AR CSI REIS MBSE Ria

