# 104-10308-10241

## Page 1

104-10308-10241

(OP SECRET DINAR]

24

On 8 April 1963 the FBI intercepted a S/W/message from AMAPOLA

in Miami to his Headquarters (Cuban IS) in Habana. This message, completely

in Cypher, was as follows:

filed -AMAPOLA - Juan Amestoy folder

166-75-752

"JUAN ARMESTOY TOLD ME: HE WORKS WITH

RICARDO CABRERA CHIEF OF INFILTRATION

ZRKNICK

FROM C. I. A. ABOUT SEVEN DAYS AGO WE

WERE IN CUBA. WE LEFT TAMPA AND LANDED

AT ONE IN THE MORNING IN A GRADED FIELD

ON THE ESTATE OF PEDRO MARTINEZ; IN

ADDITION TO THE CARGO JESUS GONZALEZ

WAS WITH US, I WAS THE ONLY ONE WHO DID

NOT EAT AT THE HOUSE. TOMORROW WE

LEAVE FOR A CAYO (KEY) PROBABLY TO GO

TO CUBA. I BELIEVE JESUS IS GOIG WITH

US. AN INTERNAL UPRISING IS BEING PRE-

PARED AND SIX MEN, FOUR CUBANS AND TWO

FOREIGNERS, HAVE ALREADY ARRIVED IN

CUBA TO ASSASSINATE FIDEL. RICARDO TOLD

RIN LAST NIGHT THAT FROM NOW UNTIL

DECEMBER MANY THINGS ARE EXPECTED IN

CUBA AND THAT THE AMERICAN GOVERNMENT :

WILL TAKE ADVANTAGE OF THE OPPORTUNITY

OF THE ATTACK ON THE RUSSIAN BOAT TO

CONTROL THE GUSANOS (WORMS) WHO WORK

ON THEIR OWN AND THEN IN THE WORK OF

C. 1. A. IN IIS JOB OF INFILTRATION. ARMESTOY

SAYS THAT THEY ALWAYS TAKE AN AMERICAN

WITH THEM AND IT IS HE WLO GIVES THE

ORDERS AND COMMUNICATES BY RADIO WITH THE

AIRPLANES WHICH EXPLORE THE ROUTE.

ARMESTOY TOOK ELEVEN THOUSAND FIVE

HUNDRED PESOS TO CUBA. BE CAREFUL

REGARDS. "

24

On 21 April 1963 AMAPOLA in Miami received a/radio message from

Cuban Is Headquarters telling him that they had received his valuable S/W<4

message.24 This radio message said that he should continue to cultivate the

friendship of ARMESTOY and send personal reports about him and his friends,

their activities and functions in the CIA.

24

On 28 April 1963 AMAPOLA received a radio message which said that it

was important for him to inform Cuban IS Headquarters about his connection

with ARMESTOY, and it was urgent for AMAPOLA to send reports about him

and his friends.

478997

#/BR

---

## Page 2

13-00000

TOP SECRET/DINAR

74

5 May 1963 AMAPOLA received a radio message from Cuban IS Headquarters

which said "we don't know anything about Juan ARMESTOY or about Armando

CASTELLON whether they work or worked for the CIA.

On 7 July 1963 ANAPOLA received a fadio message which read "intorna

urgently via CANDY all you know about one Juan ARMESTOY. Notify us whether

or not he is in Miami.

On 21 July 1963 AMAPOLA received a radio message which said that Juan

ARMESTOY, Ricardo CABRERA and Jesus GONZALEZ are members of a net-

work of agents; that it is necessary to have data on these men and the names

of each one of the remaining members of the network; the group with whom it has

contacts; and the degree of friendship AMAPOLA has with ARMESTOY and the

others.

On 5 August 1963 WAVE reported that ARMESTOY and AMAPOLA had been in

Sam Severino (prison) at the same time, and WAVE believes that ARMESTOY may

I have been allowed by the Cuban IS to come to the U. S. to provide counter-

revolutionary contacts for AMAPOLA.

TOP SECRET DI

5/94

---

