# 104-10163-10047

## Page 1

104-10163-10047

31

5

INDEX:

NO

CLASSIFY TO FIE

N0 202

35/68+=E4-fut

FROM MOMMANEE

fILE #ID

RET. TO BRANCH O

ACTIONY

INFO:

COPIC 2, FI, FID, ETINT 6, RE/AN, WH 8, KH/SA/12, VR, FILE.

I, SOD 4, CA ?, CA/PEG, CA/PROP, CA/O 4, C1, CI/OPS, CI/PS,

INDEXED AND CONTROL COPIER

NOT WATCHEN NRU

S:E:CRE T 632314742P

4 FEB 65 811DZ IN 73172

DIR INFO LANT FACT]BARR CITE WAVE T908 INCHURST ACTING)RSE

INTEL TYPIC

SUPDATA:

AMCLATTER

BY PHONE FROM

ABSTRACT,

LINDEX

ABOUT MIDNIGHT

& 2 FEB. RID: INDEX. FILED: 863/23847

REPORT CLASS CONFIDENTIAL CONTROLLED DISSEM

COUNTRY: CUBA

SUBJ: ALLEGED ABORTIVE AIR RAID OVER CUBA BY THE MIRR

DOI: 2 FEB 65.

R. PADA: UNITED STATES, MIAMI (3 FEB 65)

UFG 6636

MICROFILMED

ĐEB 1 2 1965

DOC. MICRO. OUR.

SOURCE: A MIAMI BUSINESSMAI WHO WAS A RESIDENT OF HABANA FOR

SEVERAL YEARS. THE SOURCE HAS CONTACTS WHO RECOGNIZE HIM AS A

CHANNEL TO U.S. INTELLIGENCE. THIS INFORMATION WAS OBTAINEO FROM A

FRIEND OF BULL JOHNSON.

TW COMMENT.

Mini/SA

12 VEES

RELLASING I WO

FORG 1 389

DATE DISTRIBUTED

3 FEBRUARY 1965

03237

TOC 9DB-315/00379-65

XI ROUTINE

BABID ON

LAISON,

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING DIFICE IS PROHIBITED.

PRIORITY

UFG 6636

NPJ AMCLATTER-1

201-251684

4F.111/445

Copy No,

RI COPY

#I COPY

(389

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Orily

Do Not Reproduce

---

## Page 2

14-00000

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

Intelligence Information Cable

COUNTRY

DATE OF

INFO.

CUBA

2 FEBRUARY 1965

ECONROLIED DISSO

• ROUTINE

TDCSDB-315/00379-65

DISTR3 FEBRUARY 1965

SUNECT

INFORC

ALLEGED ABORTIVE LAIR RAID OVER CUBA BY THE

MOVIMIENTO INSURRECCICNAL DE RECUPERACION

REVOLUCIONARIA PURRS)

UNITED STATES, MIAMI. (3 FEBRUARY 1965)

PLACE A

DATE ACQ

SOURCE

AND

APPRAISAL

REP

FIELD REPORT NO

73172

UFG16636

A MIAMI BUSINESSMAN SIHO MAS A RESIDENT OF HABANA FOR SEVERAL YEARS.

THE•SOURCE MAS CONTACIS WHO RECOGNISE HIM AS A CHANNEL TO U.S.

INTELLIGENCE, THIS INFORMATION WAS OBTAINED FROM A FRIEND OF

BILL JOHNSON.

eir lisa AMiani, FlauSA

-1.

ON 2 FEB 65 BILL JOHNSON, AN AMERICAN PILOT WHO ARRANGES

cit Cuba

SUPPORT ASPECTS OF AIR STRIKES AGAINST CUBA BY ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA"

MOVIMIENTO INSURRECCIONAL DE RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARIA (MIRR,

INSURRECTIONAL MOVEMENT FOR REVOLUTIONARY RECOVERY), SAID THAT JACK BROCKS

RiT USA

TRICHT LA SA PEE PURST DEG

AN AIf STRIKE OVER CUBA WHEN MIS

TWIN-ENGINE BEECHCRAFT CRASHED WHILE HE WAS ATTEMPTING TO LAND AT

FREEFORT, GRAND BAHAMAS ISLAND, ON 2 FEB. JOHNSON SAID THAT A

BOAT WITH AMMUNITION AND SUPPLIES WAS WAITING FOR THE PLANE TO ARRIVE

AT FREEPORT. THIS CARGO WAS THEN TO BE TRANSFFORED TO THE BEECH-

CRAFTO JOHNSON ADDED THAT HE WAS ASKING BOSLH FUR $2, DAD TO GIVE TO

mela Mertias 1

• UNo, deca, 993 and 101, the

CONAIDENTIAL

•CONTOOLIED ONSEN....

DIA ARAT/ACEI

NAVY AND ICE SECON

AD

UNIA OCE ONE OCA CAR

00

SE:/C1 2, CIA/IMCE, FBI, LENS) TREASURY, ESPER PATIAIL, COAST GUARD, OUSTONS

---

## Page 3

14-00000

CONFIDENTIAL

TDCSDB-315/00379- PAGE 2

- 65

MRS. WRIGHT TO "KEEP HER QUIET. "

2. JOHNSON ALSO SAID THAT WRIGHT HAD FLOWN THE SAME BEECHCRAFT

OVER CUBA ON 17 JAN WHEN THE MIRR BOMBED THE NIAGARA SUGAR MILL

IN PINAR DEL RIO PROVINCE. (FIELD COMMENT: ANOTHER GOVERNMENT AGENCY

REPORTED THAT WRIGHT DEPARTED AT 12:38 P.M. ON 16 JAN IN A BEECHCRAFT

BEARING REGISTRATION N 52933 FROM FORT LAUDERDALE FOR FREEPORT.

HE LEFT FREEPORT AT 5:17 P.M. AND CHECKED THROUGH FORT LAUDERDALE

CUSTOMS AT 6:28 P.M. THAT DAY. THERE IS NO INFORMATION TO INDICATE

THAT THE N 52933, THE SAME AIRCRAFT THAT CRASHED ON 2 FEB, WAS

FLOWN ON 17 JAN.)

: (FIELD (FIELD COMMENT: THE 3 FEB ISSUE OF THE MIAMI HERALD REPORTED

THAT THE FEDERAL AVIATION AGENCY IDENTIFIED THE DEAD PILOT WHO CRASHED

AT FREEPORT AIRPORT ON THE AFTERNOON OF 2 FEB AS JACK BROOKS

RIGHT OF 62R8 NE STH.AVE, MIAMI. WRIGHT TOOK OFF FROM FORT

LAUDERDALE - HOLLYWOOD INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT AT 11:48 A.M. IN THE

TWIN-ENGINE BEECHCRAFT, WHICH WAS REPORTED TO HAVE BEEN RENTED TO A

UNIFORM SUPPLY FIRM. THE FAA SAID THAT WRIGHT WAS LISTED AS THE OWNER

"OF THE PLANE.)

M":4. FIELD DISSEM: CINCLANT, CINGSO, COMKWESTFOR, MIAMI REPS

OF. STATE, USCG, BORDER PATROL, JENS, FBI AND CUSTOMS.

CONFIDENTIAL

(END OF MESSAGE)

---

