# 104-10170-10109

## Page 1

104-10170-10109

Office of Crison:

Report diade At:

Subjec falsivas

FIRERARID NSUD ANN

Classification:

folerence:

23 Februmsy 1931

7x-2891

ried Cong

B5/037 4 44082

Stanis:

Nevert YATBO dated 13 Men, 1015 entitled ver a(r)

1s roquested by tuning, the follariny as funisel by tsa members of Alr

ground forens pasources and rechateal stuff.

The Arst source, M/Sgt. Farry sney states Chrt Newarm's Mrst nig la

PAMED,

so was bom and edicted in emany.

Inay fromertly nentioned

the to of atreation he reedy ander the vernons and also tha sethods

of instructions.

Sate lives sald thet Nough uns a mechande with the ArO

prior to entoring the 1.5. 1oy-

Die to his work with the 17T, ISMAN 1a

a close friend of reneral ChoraTE:

po la a quiet follon and rary solden

mtare into concersation. He is bald die to trome.

The second nowce, tr. Iris war, stalenths fIT tasedlei fro

normany and has been in Chira for a long time,

prior to jainin the avo, ba

was an enginer. Accerding tour. "Rut, Neuman retar gorassed any

oolfiloal sentiments.

He 15 a mulet fallou and seldos erzages anyone in

corversation

The source also states tint he nover heard feuan mention

his fantly relations.

TADE TINTED Y EADS:

Al runnings.

This case is considend to be clos d at razing.

The furing

office say obtsin further inforsation fra

other fellos coldlirg of the Alr

prond forces resorce and" chrtea? sinfl

Distribution:

12 = Washington, DoCo

I sero

I : net. 202

2 - Funkas

1 - yuelyang

sheer in 213*ge.

---

## Page 2

MANCATORY AEVIEW OF CLASSEELED

COTOS OF CAN MAN RE ARCHES AND WATERNS

Ssivich

1/8/16

Date of Request

Name of Depository:

Address:

JOIN DE KENNEDY.

LIBRARY

360 TRAPMO ROAD -

WALTHAN, MA 02154.

Phone #: 617-223-1230

I hereby request mandatory revier of classified

material (see attached list) in the records/document collecti

of

National Securlly Files

(record group or coltection)

In accordance with the provisions of Executive Order 11652,

Section 5 (c).

Name of Requestor:

Address:

Richard D: Mahoney

4019 S. Mill Ave.

Tempo, Ariz: 95282

Phone #:

---

## Page 3

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

GENERAL SERVICES ADMINISTRATION

DECKERSE

National Aichie's and Records Service

Martingon, DC 20109

In reply refer toi

1LK-76-260

APR: 1 9 578

E- 76-124

Mr. Gune F. WUlson

Information and Privacy Coorilnator

Certral Intelligraco Agcacy

Warrington, Do 2U5os

Dear Mro Wilson:

Under che provistons of Seccion S(C), Executive Order 11652, 0 researcher

has requested the mindatory classification review ef che enclosed document(a)

fros the holdings of one of che Presidential libraries.

Enclosed are coptes

of the researchec'a request and a document list.

The identification of the

library file which concains the document(a) is given in the documene list.

it there is any question concerning this request, do not hesitate to contace

UB:

t.?+

Please revier the docment(s) and if they may be declausified, mark then

approprintely.

If a docucent

should remin classlfied in the interest of

national securiey, please provide us with che applicable exemption category

from Section S(B) of the Executive order and with a date or event when

autonatic declassificacion say be acconplished. We would appreciate retur

of the document copies wich your response.:

Sipcerely

EDWIN A. THOMPSON

Records Declassification Division

Enclosures

ArR 22

SECRET

INCLASSIEIED UPON REMOVAL UE ENCLOSUKES

Keep Freedom in Tom Fuisre Wih US. Savings Bonds

---

## Page 4

26 Janiary 1977

MEMORANDUM FOR:

ATTENTION

SUBJECT

REFERENCES

Chairman, Information Revlew Committee

Assistant for Information

E.0. 11652-FRichard D. Mahoney (E 76-124)

A.

Initlal Request dated 8 Janusry 1976.

B.

GSA Referral Letter w/att. dated

19. April 1976.

C. IPS Reply dated 26 July 1976.

D. Appeal Letter dated IS August 1976.

1:

Summary of Reconnendations: Sustain the initial

determination to deny the document in toto under prorision

S(B) (2) of E.0. I1652, as amended. Add provision 5(B) (3).

2.

Background:

On 8 January 1976, Mr. Richard D. Mahoney

requested a mandatory review of two classified CIA

documents under provisions of Executive Order 11652

Section S(C).

The documents were in custody of

the National Archives and Records Service (NARS)

in the John F. Kennedy Library.

b:

On. 19. April 1976, the NARS referred Mr:

Mahoney's request with copies of the documents to

CIA.

The Agency was asked to review the documents.

If declassified, they were to be marker appropriately.

FZ IMPDET

CL BY 012170

CONFIDENTIAL When

Detached From

Allachments

SECRET

---

## Page 5

SECRET

If they remained classified, the Agency was

requested to cite the applicable exemption

category from Section S(R) of the F.C.

and

a date when automnite declassification may be

accomplished. They requested that the copies

of the documents be returned with the Agency's

response.

On 26 July 1976, I8S wrote to the

NARS and returned

copies of the documents.

Both documents were found to require continued classi

Cication under E.0. 11657 Section 5(B) However, a

sanitized vorsion of Item el as found possible

and was enclosed. NARS Could adrise requester

of his right to appeal directly to ClA.

ad. On 15 August 1976, Mr. Mahoney wrote

to the ClA and appealed the decision to with-

hold from declassification Item 12 of his

request.

3. Recommendations:

Tih R-? contains TDCSDB 3/657,851 dated

12. November: 1963.

During the initial.

revicw, the

document was denied in toro to requester under

provision S(R) (2) of E.Q. 11652, as amended:

The

document is. based on NCL-1832 dated 10 November

1963.

I recommend that the initial determination

to deny the document to the requester in toto

under provision 5(B) (2) of E.O. 11652

be

sustained and that provision s(R)is) of e.o.

as amended,

11652

now be applied.

The information is .from

¿ sensitive, source with unique access to a poli.

tical leader.

.If

the infornation

cause embarrassment to the

released united States Govern

could

ment and exacerbate relations with a friendly

foreign government.

b.

During the DDO appeals revier, a classifi

cation review was conducted. The document is

properly classified and properly marked in accordance

with the provisions. of E.0. 11652

• as amended.

Due to the sensitivitv of the subiect matter, a

meaningful

sanitization cannot he made.

CONFIDENTIAL When

D:19 hed From

Attachments

SECRET

---

## Page 6

SECRET

recosmendat ions.

OGC has nor yet concurred in these

DO Appeals Officer

Attachments:

Tab A • References A-D

Tab B = TDCSDB: 3/657,851

COORDINATION

C/AF/PLAYS

DATE

CONFIDENTIAL When

Detached From

Allachments

SECRET

---

## Page 7

Append

E 76-13.46

arli

els

19 1•19:: $032191192

Sena

F.

infurtation

trivncy

2090l.aa:2=

control Intolllsence faturd

r.?.

20505

71r:

pray: jo.5

Joccent

2 or 82x

^6-43

Inca docunint,

SInce I dO L05 110:r

perition

tr.at

0:1? y

Feline beat or peera?

the sensitlilty of this

rel.asel

Ir sanitleed

fort.:

11?09

1312956

ter?::

bank you for your sosillerat

Fearing fros yod.

are conni

:11:14%.:

5111090-

Rill Syste

---

## Page 8

UNITED STATES or

AMERICA

GENEVAL SERVICES AOMINISTRATION

National Archives and Records Seruice

Washing:on, DC. 20108.

In reply refer to:

NP.K-76-321

WAY 1 0 11/8

Mr. Gone F. Wilson

Intonation

and Prisey Coordinator

Control Intelligence Agoney

Nashirgion, DC 20505

• Dear Me. Wilson:.

106

E 76-150

Under the provistons of scution 560), Frecutive Oider 11652, is rescarchos

lia regreated the mandatory classification coview of the enclosed document(s)

from the Boldloge of one of the Presiduitial librarles.

Fnelosed are coples

of the remare hod's

request and a document list.

The Ironetfleation

of the

Libracy file which contains the documont(3) 11 elven in

the document list.

Te thore lo any preston concerning chts request, do not healtate to concret

11:9 *

Plates color the dewarailed did le thig my ie declassfiled, mark chen

appropriately.

IF i document

Rould rent stamiried in the Interest of

masonal seruelly, plore provide no bich the applleable exenpelon category

from Soution 5(3) 0f Cho Piccutive order and wich a date or event when

auromotic.diclassffication my heaccouplished. Wa would appreciate seturn

of the dooment coples with jour temponse.

sinnerala

Director

roveda Doclassification Division

linclosures

Fax 19

1 24 PH'76

CP

Y CLASSINTED WAYS

70Ar.

Mtcro.caes

---

## Page 9

•DOX DE THE NATION ARCHES ARD RECORD: CERV EF

1/8/16

Date ne Request.

Address: 230 310020 2010

VALELAX, HA 0215'

lone 4: 611-223.1220

I hercoy request

mandatory. covior of classified

mlourial one ditched

Tist) in the cocords/docent collections

MOLOTAGS QUNEY 23

(r coM coup or cortcction)

1xe0t?:

ce will the movision do mortive Oeder 17052,

Wene of Remberior:

• 180955:

Fione :

Richard boyle Baloney

Генре, Arizon 85282

---

## Page 10

rr0d 5:

Ex22nis

1

CONGIDENCEAL

SECRaC

TOP SECRET

Unmarked (Dut

pussihly ilossiried)

Jac2o

5

*,------==

•13

Polal. ClassiCied

Unclessieled AcLachnenes

(for information only

3

18

: 1.03

1/1.3/63

!1r1!9.3

Desoription (identiCication, 2bJ:b):*

SC No. 00302/&3B:

"signiricanos or

PTC-African

esmolation Agracmont"

dennis

op doroch Dirioinle oit Feench Activities

in Block Alejen"

OCT 4o. 2375/63:

"Sub jeet:

African

Renetions

to US

Positiona

Comeil

in Security

Debatas on Porsuguose Territories

and South Africa"

Pores

7

tion

S

C

ior archivist:

Documento fron ESP:CO:Africs, 8/63-11/63, Bo% 3

---

## Page 11

MEMORADS FOR: Chairman, Inforantion eries Cooters

ATTENTION

50B68

NIFERENCE

Executivo Ordor 11062

Appert--

kichard

hoyle Bahotry (i

76-150)

:. Initial Request fron bars dated

100 Miy

1970 with arteriounts.

B. l'S Reply do BaRs died 21 dold

1970.

C. Appril better, 2i Septerber 1976.

1.

Summary

determination

Suspin the initivi

in tuto

TDCShl1/660,?90,

?!1)

incolligence robart

oriinated he taris Stalion dated

19 Soptonher

liod under excoption

Ordor (1.0.) 11652, and add the claim or F(l(ü) oF

1. 0. 11052.

?.

Backxrosa!

il.

Richard Doyle Makoney, i neaber

at the puttie

who is idmiriod a i

initiatol

Olt

§ January 1974

ti:rough

the

Kom dl library

a mandator rorion of TheSil- 3/066

,:0 to eccordaned

with the provision: of 1.0. 11052

Section "(C).

This request

for revior was

romarded to the via tho

National lochiros and Records Gorice CARE on

10 May 1976.

I respondod to 1Al5 on 20 mine 1976

Among other things, Cid denied in tote tocsor

wich was Item Da on the Niks roquesi, ou

the ground of Section E(B) (2) of lan. 11634.

The

1:2

IMPORT

101 Bx 012171

---

## Page 12

SCRET

reply stared that the document had tó remain

Massified indefinitely

in order to protect

intelligence sources and muthods, and stated

that release of segregable portions has not

feasible.

This was based upon a classification

review by a Anomiedicable officer

dited at May 1976.

Mr. Richard Doyle Mahoney appealed this

determination directly to It'S in a letter dated

September 1976.

He specifically asked if

it nould not be possible to release a sanitized

version of the document without jcopardizing

national security.

3.

Recommendations:

detalied recommendations.

See the Appeals Roview Forms for specific

A second classification revier was requested

ly DOO/ISS/PICG.

The second

revior was conducted

on TDCSUB-3/656,740 on 22. Neconher 1076 by Furope

Division, which

decided to retain the classification

at Scurot in accordance with F.o. 11652. Europe

Division wimmined mier rirlow that there bere

foreign policy and liaison sonsitivities which

precluded dongrading TDCSD -3/056,180, 0r

sterilizing the document and releasing portions

thorcof. at this time.

- 2 -

Data hed From

Atlachiments

---

## Page 13

it was

To touris

informian in the doctacht tort

scurity.

in

disclose de that incontion 102d

fact he filely do point the linger of duipirit

i a relaliyal saall doop or pricelial courers,

one of thou is pourer.

Fallen lo progres

this

source would in toon jeopardies Con rotations

with

carront aid loture sources.

officer rote nith

this position.

Out: his n0l get concuire in

theic rocommentations.

Arischients:

Reference's A.C

47:1.

Full Teal of them /665.71

COORDINATION:

X EUR/EXO

DATE

7 Jan 77

---

## Page 14

14-00001

€-76-150

NIK: 70-321

StanDar 22, 1975

Inforsation Rovior Coralitos

d/o Gias Fo lilson

Infomeatlon and Policy Conninator

£ 76-150

Madalagton, DoCo 20505

Due infamirilon Roslow Coralitags

Walso tho prordulons of Macitira Cider 11552, I tould Ills to

appeal dha ClAls doolsion

thoroof Man bolng duclasairlado 114. - 76-311.

As 193 Agoroy his dons alth sono sany of i declassifleation

riguests, todd 1t not bo possiblo to plougo a sunlitial version os tha

dosimant withort jropardistng national socurity?

I loss turned la racoiulns your roply and mut you for your

comilaration of this and Frovious -parls.

Sineuralya

Telesh

Richard Doyle Mahonay

joiri Fo

Yanna library

330 Trapnlo Road

inlthar, Masso 02154

31.:

---

## Page 15

14-00001

1: 25331

86 Best 6

000010888841

BIP LOTES COPIOS

TON 6068 (sONA)

META CH DE BRICA FOISAS

5-25331

2073

20.c0H

P 31

Miniss

GONTIDEESIAY

---

## Page 16

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 17

MDENTAL

31 December 1975

MEMIORANDUM POR:

Chlof, Information and Privacy Statt

SUBJECT

REFERENCE

F7S-4057

The FBI: forwarded for our terler two documents

Release of these docunents

(b) (3)(a) and (b) (6) POIA.

(SC B0C5 10C5 516/005150 Pd April 1971.5

Charles A. Briggs

Chiof, Servicos Staff

E2. IMPDET

CL

BY 0012176

---

## Page 18

Administrative - Internal Use

SAl

4. November 1975

MENORANDUM FOR: Chief, Information and Privncy Staff

SUBJECT:

REFERENCE:

Request No. 75-4057

Subject.

This Directorate does maintain an official file on

A review of this file and other records of this

Directorate reveal the following information identifiable

with requester.

Please forward these document

Seven documents originating with the FBI.

descriptions to the

so they can correspond directly with the requester.

(1) •

subject:

Date:

Vencercmos Brigade

7 January 1970

Origin of Report: Washington, D.C.

No Bureau File Number or Field File

Number provided.

(2) .

Subject:

Date:

16 June 1970

Origin:: Washington; D.C.

No Bureau File Number of Field File

Number provided.

(3).

Subject:

Date:

12. June 1970

Committee of Returned Volunteers

Origin:

New York City

File Number: 100-447724

(4) •

Subject:

Date:

30

Origin:

Jeptemder 1970

No

Washington, D.C.

Bureau

File Number or

Number

Field File

provided.

(5).

Subject:

Date:

27 AprIl 1971

Origin:

Washington,

D.C.

File Number:

100-47256

Administrative - Internal Lsa

---

## Page 19

@ministralive - Internal üse

(6) ÷

Subject:

Cate:

30 Lvare Tr. 4

Origin:

Washincion

D.C.

•File Number:

100-47256

222s

(7).

Subject:

Date:

-12

FECT TITT

Origin: Washington, D.C.

No Bureau File Number or Fleld File

Sumber provided.

D: One INS report entitled "Sugar Cane Cutters

Returning from Cuba," dated 29 April 1970, originating

in Portland, Maine.

zation

Service so they can correspond directly with

the requester.

c.

Three documents originating with this Agency,

of which sanitized versions are attached.

Further

descriptions are as follows:

(1). Name Trace Request dated 12 November

1968,

exempt per (b) (3)(a) (sources and methods),

(b) (6) (privacy) and (b) (1) (properly classified) of

the Frcedom of Information Act, as amonded.

(2).

Memorandum dated 21 November 1968,

exempt per (b)(5) (b) (CIA Act of 1949) and (b) (1)

(properly classified) of the Frecdom of Information

Act, as

amended.

Cable dated 20 February 1970, exempe

(b) (3) (b) (CIA Act of 1949) and (b) (1) (properly

classified) of the Freedom of Information Act,

amended,

Charles A.

Briggs

Chief,

Services

Staff

Administrative - Internal Use Only

- 2-

---

## Page 20

Jit 28

/ 27 AM '75

22 July, 1975

1101 Pine S

Philadelphia, Pi. 19104

Irbort S. Young

Coordinator, Freedom of Information Act

CIA

Washington, D.C. 20505

IRS 75-4057

Dear Hobert Young

I am writing pursuant to the Freeíon of Information Act, 9 U.S. C. Sec. 552, et suq.,

to request that you provide me with any ind all records, documents, memoranda,

letters and any information of any type or kind and in any form concerning me that is

on file, in the possession of, accessible ta,

or maintained by your agercy. If for

any reason you decide not to foriard to me any of the Information that I have hereby

requested, I further request that you identity the nature of the information withheld

and the roasons for your action,

I ask you to waive any fees according to the Act which permits it when the request

"is in the public interest because furishing the information can be considered as

primarily benefiting the pablis.". I think this is the casc.

As provided in the amended Act, I espeet to receive a reply within 10 working days.

Sincerelie

---

## Page 21

SEUNLI

17 Ncrember 1976

NEMORANDUM FOR: Chairaan, Information Review Committee

ATTENTION

Mr. H. G. Bean, Assistunt for Information

SUBJECT

FOIA Appeal

REFERENCES

A.

Initial Request dated 22 July 1975.

IPS Reply dated 19 March 1976.

C. Appeal Letter Received 26 April 1976.

1. Summary of Recoamendations:

a .

Sustain initial determination to deny in toto

to requester to DO originated documents under

exemptions (b) (1), (b) (3), and (b1(6) of FOIA.

Remove

(b) (6)

fron one document;

add creapcion (b)(2) to

both Jocuments.. iTabs B-S and 8-6).

Release additional inforzation in three

originated docucents previously released in

sanitized form--excised portions exempted under (b) (1),

priate.

Correct the names of the deciding officials

in the appeal response to requesier.

Advise

requester that docunent B-5 super-

cedes

document B-o and contains the exact same

information.

IPS advise FBI. that document B-5 supercedes

document B-d and shat the latter should be destroyed

to avoid duplicate referrals in the future.

Correct dates on documents 8-5 and 6.

E: IMPDET

CL BY 012170

SECRET

CONFIOENTIAL When

Beta-hed From

Machments

---

## Page 22

SECRET

2. Background:

On 22 July 1975

to ClA and requested all and any antormation con-

cerning her maintained by CIA under the FOIA.

She provided some biographic information and asked

that any fees be waived.

b. On 15 Decenber 1975, IPS/DDA advised DDO

Thad been

C.

On 19 March 1976, IPS wrote to

and enclosed sanitized versions of four documents,

three of which were Do documents.

Deletions had

iven made under (b) (1),

(b) (3),

and (b) (6) of the

FOIA.

iwo additional DuO documents (those referred

by the FBI) were denied in toto under the

sane

exemptions.

The exemptions vere explained, the

denying officials were identified by name, and

was advised of her right to appeal.

was also advised that FBI and

INS ori-

ginated material was being referred to the FBI and

INS for their direct response to her request.

When IpS listed the four documents. they

droneously listed the Deputy Director of Security

as denying

document 1 and Chief, Services Staff

as responsible

for documents 2

3, 4, 5,

and 6.

In fact, the Deputy Director

of security was the

denying official of document & and Chief,

Services

Staff for documents 1, 2

3,

5,

and 6.

OGC should

point out and correct this error in their letter

to requesterl.

d.

In an

undetal torter received by CIA on

26 April 10 subsectaon (a) (6) of the forA.

appealed the decisions

pursuant

3.

Reconnendations:

Tabs B-1 thru B-3,

B-S, and B-d contain the

documents constituting the DDO

appeals

refer to these tabs

for my recommendations concerning

individual documents.

Z

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL When

Polached From

Atiachments

---

## Page 23

SECRET

b.

As stated in Paragraph ic above, 1

recommend that OGC,

in their lotter to requester,

correct the previous error in identifying the

dcciding officials.

c.

Document B-6 is a CSC! chat transmits an

accumulative machine listing to the FBI.

document is updated periodically and previous

listings shuuld be destroyed.

Document B-S

the updated and final machine listing for 1970

and superceded document B-6 which

been destroyed.

I recommend that OGC advise

requester that document B-S supercedes document

B-o and contained the exact sire information.

further recommend that IPS dras this matter to

the attention

FBI so future duplicate

referrals may be avoided.

d.

A classification revier of the five documents

listed in Tab B has been conducred.

are properly marked and properly classified in

accordance with Executive Order 11652, as anended.

All non-exempt information has boen identified

and recommended

for release to roquester.

The FBI and INS documents pertaining to

Subject located in DDO

files have been referred in

writing to the respoctive agencies for their direct

response to requester.

(See Tab C).

of OGC has concurred in these

4.

• recommendattons.

DDO Appeals Officer

Attachments:

Tab A = References A-C

Tab B = Documents

Tab C = NIS & FRI

B1, B2, B3,BS, and 66

Referral Letters

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL When

sia hed From

Attachments

---

## Page 24

king Copy

Gene F. Wilson

Information and Privacy Coordinator

Central Intelligence Agency

Washington, D.C.

20505

Dear Gene Wilson,

•On 23 March, 1976 I received

some matorial on myself from your files

which only partially answored my request for information.

Your letter

Indicated that an appeal should he directed to you.

This lotter

consitutes that appeal pursuant to subsection (a) (6) of the Freedom of

Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552) .

As provided for in the dee, I will expect to receive a reply within 20 working

days.

Sinccrely,

ArR 26

7 55 AH '76

---

## Page 25

14-00000

0 091

18 April 1977

NENOR IN DUM FOR:

FRON

SUBJECT

REFERENCE

Chief, Information and Privacy Staff

Chief, ISS/Policy and Information

Coordination Group

American Voluntcer Group: American

Voluntary Guerrillas: Alternate

Voluntary Government; requested by

Terry Catchpole

Request No. F-77-147

Subject organizations have been checked with all components

that night have an interest.or a record. The search revealed no

records in this Directorate pertaining to subject organizations.

15

CONRDEVTAL

---

## Page 26

F-77-147 JF. (pls vick)

CODUO OU

70.097

288$68.0900

March 7, 1917

Log/F

sient

rcedom of Information Coordinator

contral Intelligence Agency

l'ashington, D.C.

Hear Sir.

This 19 a request under the Freedom of Information Act as amended (5U,S.C.-

lection 552) •

Briefly, my request is for information that may be in your files pertaining

o a U.S. paramilitary organizntion known varlously as the American Volunteer

Viroup, American Voluntary Guerrillas or Alternate Voluntary Government (all AVG).

As you know, the amended Freedom of Inforsation Act provides that if

parts of a filé are exempt from release,

"reasonably segregable" portions shall

be provided. I therefore request that, if you determine that some of the

requested information is exempt, you provide de lmediately with the Information

1. hat can be mde available.

Of course, I reserve my right to appeal any such

decisione pertaining to

"exempt" material.

I am prepared to pay reasonable costs for locating this information.

DRO

seR?

lerrel

Terry (Catchpole,

Managing Editor

---

## Page 27

CONCENTAL

10 May 1977

MEMORIVDUM FOR

FROM

SUBJECT

REFERENCE

Chief, Information and Privacy Staff

Chief, Policy and Insurmation Coordination Group.

Peter A. Schey Request

- Ku Klux Klan, et al,

at Camp

Pendleton, California

F 77-025*

The files of this Dircetorate have been scarched with

regard to the listed organizations' connection with Camp

Pendicton, California and the result is negative for each

organization.

CONFIDENTIAL

C2 INDET SI DULLIIDO

---

## Page 28

577-025 - iK

Pls acknowledge

LAIN OFFICES OF

LEGAL AID SOCIETY OF SAN DIEGO, INC.

SOUTHEAST OFFICE

3O%0 INHERIAL AVENUE

SAN DIECO, CALMORNIA 92102

(784) 239-9137

January 13, 1977.

.t?

le win led

flat

if he parsists in

NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY

Fort George G. Meade

Mid. 20755

CHIEF OF NAVAL CPERATIONS

DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY

Washington D.C. 20350

Attn- OP-09318

DEFENSE INVESTIGATIVE SERVICE

DS4A

Hashington D.C. 20301

NATIONAL SÉCURITY COUNCIL

Attn. Staff Secretary

Old Executive Office Building

washington D.C. 20506

PEDIRAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

U.S. DÉPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

'9 th

and Penn Ave. Ni

Washington D.C. 20535.

DIRECTOR

DEFENSE INTELLICENCE AGENCY

Attn: SC (FOIA)

Mashington D.C. 20303.

3e.

DIRECTORATE FOR FREEDOM OF INFORGATION

Office of the Assistant Secretary of Defense

(Public Affairs)

Room 2C757. Pentagon,

Washington D.C. 20301

CIA FREEDOM OF INFORUATION COORDINATOR

CENTRAL

INTELLIGENCY AGENCY

Washington D.C. 20505

RE: FREEDOM OF INFORKATION REQUEST

TO WHOM IT MAY CONCERN:

This is a

request under the Freedom of Information Act as

amended (5 U.S.C. S552).

He had "my file'

reguet

75-5938

JAw 17

35 PH '77

---

## Page 29

88.8!T.

Page 2 (continued)

an writing this letter on behalf of mysclf and

and Reporter Publications.

Pursuant to tne Frcedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C, $552;

as amended by Pub. L. 93-502, 88 Stat: 1561, we wish to

obtain access to and the opportunity

to copy the following

documents:

All directives, memoranda, letters, orders, reports.

memoranda of telephone on ether one hich eludie to treen

Camp Pendleton Parine Base, California:

a.

b..

Ku Klux Klan:

California Ku Klux Klan;

United Klans:

Knights of the Ku Klux Klan;

e

f.

United Klans of America;

Southern Ku Klux Klan;

White Knights of the Ku Klux Klan;

White. Brotherhcod;

United Klans of America Knights of the Ku Klux Klan:

Minutemen:

Secret Army Organization;

Christian Crusade Church;

American Rangers;

n.

Invisible Empire of the Ku Klux Klan;

Christian Defense League;

The National States Rights Party:

California Anti-Communist League;

Christian National Alliance;

American Volunteers Group:

Provisional Naticnal Government of the U.S.A.;

American Nazi Party:

v.

W.:

National Socialist White Peoples Party;

Leagion of Justice;

Operation Unicorn-And other similar groups.

2.

All directives,

memoranda, letters, orders, reports.

investigations, studies, or other records, including written

memoranda of telephone conversations, which relate to the

foundation,

existence, activities, operations, size, member-

ship or presence of any of the organizations named in No. I

above in the

United States Marine Corp.

3. All directives, letters, memoranda, orders, reports.

investigations. or other records which describe, analyze

or otherwise relate to rascism at Camp Pendleton Marine Base.

---

## Page 30

14-00000

Page 3 (continuc)

All directives, letters, memoranda, orders, reports,

investigations or other records which describe, analyze

or otherwise relate to rascism in the United States Marine

corp.

Since none of the statutory exonptions Erom the Freedon of

Information Act's

matidatory disclosure provision applies.

access to the requested records should be granted within

ten (10) working days. y

In the unlikely event, however, that access is denied to

any part of the requested records, please describe the

deleted material in detail and specify the statutory basis

for the denial as well as your reasons for believing that

the alleged

statutory justification exists in this casc.

Please also state your rcasons

discretionary power

to release the requested documents in

the public interest.

le also request that you waive any applicable fees since

disclosure will meet the statutory standard for such waiver

in that it would clearly be "in the public interest because

furnishing

the information can be considered

primarily

benefiting

the general public".

S U.S.C.A. $552(a) (4) (A).

Should ,any procedural problem arise as to this request,

please

call me (collect)

TRO: 229017

J0rst 70011

Attorney at Law

TERESA. ORTIZ

ROTARY PUBLIC - CALFORNIA

Princial Ollica, San D.aea Co. Call

My Commission Exp. Der. %, 1979

Tell 443199399773

PAS: pen-

Subscribed and sworn to before

me on January 14, 1977.

OTAR

мст Слі THE

STATE OF CALIFORNIA.

---

## Page 31

LAN OFFICES OF

LEGAL AID SOCIETY OF SAN DIEGO, INC.

SOUTHEAST OFFICE

3040 16:PERIAL AVENUE

SAN DIEGO, CALIFONNIA 9Z10I

(784) 239-9837

January 13, 1977

NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY

Fort George G. Heade

Md. 20755

CHIEF ON NAVAL OPERATIONS

DEPARTRIENT CF THE NAVY

Washington D.C. 20350

Aten. CP-09818

COMMANDANT, UNITED STATES MARINE CORP.

Department

of the Navy

Washington D.C. 20350

DEFENSE INVESTICATIVE SERVICE

DS4A

Washingtori D.C. 20301

NATICNAL SECURITY COUNCIL

Attn. Staff Secretary

Old Executive Office Building

Rashington D.C. 20506

FEDERAL SUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

U.S. DEPARIMENT OF JUSTICE

9th and Penn.

Ave.

NW

Washington D.C. 20535

DIRECTOR

DEFENSE INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

Attn: SC. (FOIA)

Washington D.C. 20301

DIRECTORATE FOR FREEDO: OF INFORMIATION

Office of the Assistant Secretary of Defense

(Public Affairs)

Roor 20757, Pentagon,

Washington

DC 20301

CIA FREEDO:1 OF INFORMATION COORDINATOR

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

Washington D.C. 20505

RE: FREEDOM OF INECRIATION REQUEST

TO WHOM IT HAY CONCER':

if printro

an Ankate

Fallarina narenne and

---

## Page 32

Page 2 (continuca)

organizations:

illiam Bishop, 6202 Capestone, Dallas, Texas

Grenoiv Coffoc. 1521 wellstone Place, St. Louis, Mo.

Eddie Page, Jr., Bay Springs, Mississippi,

D.R. Hunter, 2715 Drewry Lane, North Carolina,

Ricky McGilvery, 6202 Capestone, Dallas, Texas

Willian Spencer: S1l Henry Place, High Point, N.C.

H. Fletcher, 2222 Superior, Detroit, Mich.

Clarence Capers. 209 Powder Mill Lane, Edgewater Park, Phil.

Anthony Matthews, 3904 E. 155th, Cleveland, Ohio

Carlton Goodlett, President, National Newspaper Publishers

Association - Black Press of America, 1366 Turk Street, San

Francisco, CA

94115°

Reporter Publications, 1366 Turk Street,

San Francisco, CA 94115.

Military Liw Office, National Lavyers Guild, San Francisco, CA.

Pursuant to the Freedom of Infornation Act, 5 U.S.C. 5552, as

amended by Pub. I. 93-502,

88 Stat. 1561,

they wish

to obtain

access to and the opportunity to copy the following documents:

All directives, memoranda, letters, orders, reports,

investigations, studies or other records, including written

memoranda of telephone conversations, which relate to the

formation, existence,

activities, operations, membership, size

or presence of any of

the following organizations at Camp.

Pendleton Marine Base, California:

=.

b.

C.

d.

f.

9.

Ku Klux Klan;

California Ku Klux Klan:

United Klans;

Knights of the Xu Klux Klan;

United Klans of America;

Southern Ku Klux Klan:

White Knights of the Ku Klux Klan;

White Brotherhood:

United Klans of Merica Knights of the Ku Klux Klan:

Minutemen:

Secret Army Organization:

Christian Crusade Church:

Averican Rangers;

Invisible Empire of the Ku Klux Klan;

Christian Defense League;

---

## Page 33

Page 3. (continued)

The National States Rights' Party;

california Anti-connunist Loague:

Christian National Alliance:

American Voluntcers Group;

•Provisional National Covernment of the U.s.n.g

American Nazi Party:

National Socialist White Peoples Party;

Leagion of Justice,

Operation Unicorn And other similar groups.

2. - All directives,

nemoranda, letters, orders, reports,

investigations, studies,

or other records, including written

memoranda of telephone

conversations, which relate to the

foundation, existence,.

activities, operations, size; member

ship or presence of any of the organizations named in No. 1

above in the United States Marine Corp

3:

All directives, letters, meroranda, orders, reports.

investigations.or other records

which describe,

analyze

or otherwise relate to rasciom at Camp Pendleton Marine Base.

All directives, letters,

menoranda, orders, reports,

investigations or other records which describe, analyze. or

otherwise relate to rascism in the United States Marine Corp.

Since "hone of the statutory exemptions from the Frcedom of

Information Act's mandatory disclosure provision applies,

access to the requested records should

be granted within ten

(10) working days.

In the unlikely event, however, that access is denied to any

part of the requested records, please describe the

deleted

material in detail and specify the statutory basis

for the

denial as well as your reasons for believing that the alleged

statutory justification exists in this case.

Plcase also state

your reasons for not invoking your discretionary power to

release the requested documents in the public interest.

We also request that you waive any applicable fees since

disclosure will meet the

statutory

standard for such waiver in

that it would clearly be

the public interest because

furnishing the information can be

considered as primarily

benefiting the general public".

5 U.S.C.A. $552(a) (4) (A).

Should any procedural problem arise as to this request, please

call me (collect)

so await vour progat reply.

Attorney at Law

---

## Page 34

10 March 1976

VENORANDUN FOR:

Chief, Information and Privacy Staff

SUBJECT:

REFERENCE:

A.

Request No: 75-4508

B.

OS Referral dated & Decemhor 1975

This Directorate mintains a filo on

The following paragraphs describe

no results or

a review

of this file and tho other record holdings of this

Mirectorato.

There are s1x FBI documonts identifiable to Mr.

Attached is a

list of the descriptivo

data for

those documonts that should be referrod to the FBI for

thetr dotermination.

The following documents may not be passod to Mr.

Document and Date

1 Cablo, 12 July 1970

& rispatch, 28 July 1970

I Dispatch, & August 1970

•Cable, 20 Fobrussy 1970

nispatch, 19 Play 970

fi Cable, In May 1972

Exemption

(6) (1) (11a1s0n), (b) (3);. (b)(6)

(D) (1), (b) (3), (0)(6)

E2

IMPDET

CL

BY 012170

---

## Page 35

The document referred to this Diroctorate by

the Offico of Security should bo returned to then for

their revier.

The document concerned is a list of names

of people who traveled to Cuba to cut sugar cane, dated

18 May 1973.

For tuther guidance on this 11$t,

please

see DDO/PIC memorandum,.

dated 5 March 1976 Subject:

Documents Rolating to the Vencoremos Brigade.

Chardos A.

BY 889

chiof, Services Staff

Attachment:

A/S

Cc:

OPS/ITC

LA

---

## Page 36

3 0) PN'75

Robere S. Young

roodon of Information Coonlinitor

entral Intelliganco Agercy

rington DO 20505

INS 75-4508

alor the provisions of 5 Use 552, tho Froudom of Information Act,

requost:

accoss to,

and copios of all flion and docimonts main

alrod by tho CIA rolating to aysolf.

sy photographs and fingorprint flles which you may have.

I, purchance, you rule that portlons of these files aro "roasonably

orrogable!"

I roquest copies of thu romnining material and roservo

ij right to appoal any such doletions.

is, perchanco, this roquast is dended in wholo or In part, ploase

nform me of tho appropriate appeals procodiro.

'I delotions are made, please cite the statutory justification for

rachi deloted itom.

: an submitting my full none, date and place of birth and Social

¡ocurity

Tumber.

proparod to pay a roasonable foe for the

reproduction of this matorial.

s required by 5 USC 552, I oreot to hoar from you within 10

sorking dayso

Sincoroly yours;

---

## Page 37

5 Parch 1976

BIENORANDUM FOR: Chiot, Information and Privacy Staff

SUBJECT:

Documents Reinting to the Vencerchos Brigade

1.

This Dircetorate is unablo to locate or to

acknovledgo origin of the following ruports contalned

In tho files of tho Offico of Sccurity:

Tho Venceremos Prigade a Report - J1

May 197001.

List of namos of Peoplo Who Travoled to

Cuba to Cut

Sugar Cano dated 18 May 1963.

thoroforo decline to rulo on the releascabilley

of thesé tro documents on FOIA and PA requosts,

and ask that these

documents not be roferred to

us for action.

From che nortions forwarded in connection with

specific requests, there lould appear to be no renson for

denying the inforantion.

He defor, however, to os for a

final. Judgenent.

DDO/PIC

EZ IMPDET

CL

BY 012170

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 38

11174

27 October 1971

MEMORINDUS FOR: Chief, Information ind Privacy Staff (U)

FROM

Robert. l. Owen (U)

UDo Inforration kerior Officer

SUBJECT

REFERENCE

P-77-0140 (U)

(U)

A scarch of the DDO rocords systems has

pinduced nine documents whose recommended disposition

is as follen's:

b.

(U)

Six documents are denied in toto.

(Tab A, Document Nos. 1-6).

(U)

Document Nos." and & should be

referred

to

the FRI;

No.

and Document

9. should ho referred to the ..

Department of state. (Tab B)

Robert F. Owen (U)

Attachments:

a/s

cc: • ISS/1PG/SCB

(V)

ii.

ADMINISTRATIVE- INTERNAL USE ONLY

When Detached: from Attachments

1.?.

... 012170

SECRET

---

## Page 39

Central Intelliaeuce Agency

Washington, D.C. 20505

Dear People at the CJ.A.,.

My name is

I live at

I am requesting

under the Freedom of Information Act

all information pertaining to me in your

igency. files and records

purs trulyr

affirm that all in formation.

provided above pertaining to myself is correct.

On this

41 dan af January before

porsonally

appeared

ridicidn"

1 mento a are real did to ti

perdentid.

State of New York, Wyoming County

Commission Expires bisich 30, 1014

---

## Page 40

20 April 1976

MEMORANDUN FOR:

Chlof, Information and Privacy Staff

SUBJECT:

A Quaker Action Group

REFERENCE:

Request No. F. 76-211

A reviow of the filos of this Directorate re-

vealed the documents discussed below concerning Subject.

Documents which may

be released in their ontiraty

consist of twenty-four overt Items; copies attached.

(Documents 1-24)

One document dated July 1971 may not be released

t 1s exempt under (b)(1) and (b) (3) (liaison), FOIA.

: (Docúment 25)

momorandum datod 8 November 1976 (Document

26) consists entirely of a direct quote

from an FBI report

datod 30 May 1907, Washington; D..C.: Sublect: Protost

Activity In Washington, D. C.. Ry A Quaker Action Group

Beginning May 26, 1967; no file.

This report should be.

referred to the FBI for relesse.

In addition there are elghty-seven other FBI

documents which are not boing listed

sinco your offico has

advised that the FBI also has a roquest on Subject.

(Documents 27-114.)

Charles A.

Br18xs

Chiof, Services Staff

Attachments: NS

E2 IMPET

CL BY 012170

CONADENTIAL

---

## Page 41

Ris.

Young

Cleani Intelligence mine:

martial, D.C.

20505

F 76-211

Dear Sir:

This is a request unda= the Freedom of Information

rico, 5 V.5.c. 552,

we,

et. sed.,

on behalf of n quaker resion

the undersianed,

were the authorized

sificers at the time of the dissolution of the organtiation.

no request that you drovide us. with any and all records,

documents,

letters, or any other tyoe

of kind

of intormation concerning our

groug that is currently on

file, in possession of, or maintained by your agency.

The full name of the organization in d quater desion

It was also knon sy

initlals, dads.

crcantration var establlahod in 1905 and existed until

The main offica ves maintained at 20 south 1241

capes in Philadelphia, PA.

is for any raison you debormine nos to farcard to

w. and of the Informition tas

Na have boroby requested,

e mother request that you identify the nature of the

income mion silthheld and the reasons for your actions.

¿s you know.

the arosed de. ocanier you to reduce

du waive the foes 1E that

"Is In tho public interest

i mause furnishing the Information can bo considered as

primacily bonefiting

the oubiic."

this request olainly fits that caingory and ask you

wave any fees..

se providod fo= in the anenand hct, werill excast

to recolve.

a raoly within li days.

sincerely,

---

## Page 42

CONFIDENIA:

23 June 1976

NENORIADUN FOR: Chief, Infornation and Privacy Staff

FROM

Chirles M. Briggs

Chief, Services Staff

SURJECT

REFERENCE

for. "A Quaker Action

Group"

A. 0S Referral

R. Request No. F 76-211

The dispatch dited 18 April 1068, referred to this

Directorate by the Office of Security has heen revicwed.

Release of the document

is denied under

exemptions. (b) (1) and (b)(3) of the 1011.

Charles A. Briggs

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 43

SECRET

29 September 1977

MENORANDUN FOR. Chairman, Infornation Review Committeo (U)

ATTENTION

SUBJECT

Mr. H. G. Bean, Assistant for Information (U)

COps 1P7e-2m0 ()

CIPS -F

REFERENCES

Initial Request Letter,

22 March 1976 (U)

B.

C.

IPS Response, 20 July 1976 (U)

Appeal Letter, 23 August 1976 (U)

1. (U) Summary of Recommendations:

Sustain initial denial in toto of two DDO documents

under exemptions (b) (1), (b) (3) and (b)(6), as applicable. :

(Tabs 3 and 4).

b.: Relcase portions of ten DDO documents found

during the appeals

review, citing exemptions (b)(1),

(D) (3) and (b)(G), is applicable, for the deletions.

(Tabs 5-14).

Deny in toto one DDO document located during the

appeals review.

citing exemptions

(b) (1), (b) (3) and

(b) (0) as the justification:

(Tab 15).

Rofer a list of 88 FBI Documents to the FBI for

review and direct response.

(Tab 16).

Refer one Department of the Army

document to them"

for review and direct response.

(Tab 17).

• f. Five NSA-originated items have been referred to NSA

for review.

(Tab 18).

CONFICENTIAL Whe

Detached From o

Attachments

SECRET

---

## Page 44

SECRET

2.

(U). Background:

2 ..

Subject submitted a request under FOlA, on

22 March 1976, for any and all

information the

held on "A Quaker Action Group"' also known as "AgAnC"

In the 20 July 1976 initial response, 24 newspaper

clippings

and one leaflet were released to him; two

documents were denied.

.D..

On 23 August 1976 Subject appealed,

requesting

that further information be relcased to him on

the group.

c. During

the appeals review ll additional documents

were located and are included in the

recommendations

below. These documents were not considered during the initial

review since

they were not considered to meet the criteria

"records" extant at that time and they contained onzy

incidental references to the subject of the roquest.

d.

During the appeals review we were unable to

identify any Air Force documents concerning the subject

of this request.

The requester should be told that this

was apparently an error.

During the appeals review we were unable to

identify any bepartment of State documents concerning

A Quaker Action Group.

possibly referred to

in the statiad cumponse, do no, and

concern A Quaker Action Group.

The requestor should be

inforned that this was also apparently an error.

3. (C) Recommendations:

My specific recommendations are shown on the

Appeals Review Form attached to each document.

A

classification review has been conducted and all documents

are considered properly classified and marked in accordance

b. I recommend that the two documents denied in toto

under the

initial review continue to be denied.

One of

them (Tab

3) could identify a still active and

sensitive

source.

The other (Tab 1)

was obtained

through a sensitive

operation conducted jointly by. American

German

authorities.

SECRET

---

## Page 45

C..

I reconnend that portions of ion additional

doctrents lointed during the appeals revier be rcleased

Exceptions (b)(1), (b)(3) and (D) (6) should he cited,

as arplicable, to the deniod portions:

Specific

recognendations on each of these documents is reflected

in the attached Appeals Revice Forms. (Tabs 5-14):

One additional document located during the

amcals revice should he denied

received from a foreign liaison service.

in tuto, since:

it wag

(Tab 15).

e.

88 FAT docurents located during the initial

revies, but not referred to the lal, should he referred

to the FBI

in triting for review ind direct response.

These documents are listed under Tab 16.

f.

One Department of the Army document should be

referred in writing to them

for revicw and direct response

The title paye: anc

a description of the document are

itanched. as

Tab li.

Fire

irs. for revich. (Tab 18).

items from NSA have been refered to them by

n.

scroral other documents turned up during both the

initiat revich and the appcals review should be considered

not responsive to the request since they rofer te

& hc

generic

term

"Quaders" hut not to

"A quater Arsion Group".

15

specified in the request. (Tao 1?).

4.

(il)

recommendatio

ns..

of O6C has. concurred in the above

Richard

Hagner

DDO Appeals Officer (U)

Atrachments:

Tab A -

Initial Letter

Tab 6. 1'S Response

Tab C

oneal Letter

Tabs 3-19

• See Revick Forms

COORDIVATION

FA/OEM<FOI

ISS/IPA/SCR

EUR/EXO

nex

DATE

211/12

30/9/27

30c722

SECAFT

---

## Page 46

pi..

16 99? 1975

ARDIORA:DOY FOR:

SURJECT:

REFERENCE:

Chief, Information lovier stast

Request An. 75-801

1. This Nonetorses naintains e personalley dossier

A roview rE

this file and other

records of this circetorate reveal tie folloring infor-

nailon pertinent to subject:

A few FBI documents, tich are excluded

under 1900.3 (u) (1) of the Eodoral Perister.

office that raintains

the information on subject is

unable to further iloncify these documents.

nort intoration provided by a joint

Dopartnont of the Army and forcign liaison opera

tion abroal.

This materinl is considered exenpt

under 5B (1) 08 8.0. 11552 And 1000.3 (x)(1) and

(3) 0f the Foileral Registor.

nation

Tio igency dispatches based on infor-

Frog unilateral

and liaison murces a-

brons concerned Subject's travel to Cubr.

This

material

considered

exempt indet: (b) (3) 08

FOlA 3nd 53 (1) OfF.D. 11652.

Ons memorarium to the FOI reporced

Subject's travel as mentioned in paragraph 1.c.

130ra.

This naterial

is considered exompt for

reason

in paragraph

l.c. tinve.

Form 3535 is attached.

iltacineat

FOrT 3535

!?".

Л!

Arless

Charles

Brlugs

Chief, Services Stass

CONG pond:

---

## Page 47

14-00009

Freedon of Intoration Coordinator

contral latelligenes Agency

hashington, b.C.

205CS

Gentlemais

The Office of the Deputy Attoric! General referred me to

I formally requess

Crio has aboat 2oo. Be rare is

to see in and all socoration, urs

Thank you

cc. Office of Congressman Toly Motfitt

---

## Page 48

SECRET

28 0ds 875

NAIIN PORS

ATTATION &

SURVITE

Chatree, taforens ten lovier Countster

Mr. W.G. Boan, Speculive Socretary

POLA APPRAL - PaLlo A. StaRerson

Rogue e L

dated I AprIl L9TS

Ors/ITo Nano dared 14 Hay 1975

DO/AS 175-190 decod Le May 1975

IES 75-801 decod 30 May 1975

Appeal

1.

dated 26 Juna. 197S

Ops/IrG Mario dared 1S July 1973

The lastial request and salvernont appeal by

Agoncy'e corruspondenco to him, and the documence that percata

have been revieved and the documate savolved are an follori

ni B 561, 11 Auguas 1969

tho

HHMA-37509• 10 July 1969

€ I001A-37416, 23 June 1969

do Headquarters 876, 26 June 1969

•.

MRXICO CITY 329, 23 June 1969.

ACHICO CITY 330, 24 June 1969

R-3663, 24 Octobor 1969

TH-559888, 26 August 1969

Itera, b and c. Iron the Lot 1n paragruph 1. vero tha basis of

che tristial reponso and dostall

(Bofarenco d.), Itess d.

and as do not meniton|

by nano but are ralative and are tacluded

for bockground informatiog.

evallabla itll afear the lalciel resposad

and cherafore vare

not conaidared la that reply.

On cho bants of our revie, ve balleve Item do, b. and e- ver

properl mempted ta secord iRs (b) (I) Bad (D) (3) of C POLA Bed S3(1) ol

5.0, 11632. Thie was raported

Ra Ratorence d. on 30 Kay 1975.

Aintalatrative-Istaroi? l'se Only

inen Separated iron Actacharate.

---

## Page 49

¡SECRET

Doinite the detafled explanation provided

vo note ls lils latter

of appeal that bo continuea to sual a baile lor cha ductason. Uita resara to

these jocusence, se ballove and agree thee rulesolng than

would violate procoction of venuitive soureso and tachode. The orifinal

destal te corroct in sould te sheld by the Icformation Revie Corniecee.

Our rever of the renaloing ibree documento (itons f., %. and ho)

resulted la the inliolas recimendations.

MP 559605. A passenser lat stiles tie Agency apparently

obtatred through foralga klatoon

Tun esture of cae

infomation

not poride segregating and releasias farta of the latI

Ne believe the document 1a exampt under (b) (1), (b) (3) Of tie FOLA and

58(1) of B.O. 11692.

D.

MEXICO CITY 330. Provides

tco sano information ao R4A-37509

nos 1o, thorofore, axemps under the sane execptiona cited in the origioal

deutal. 10. (b)(1), (D) (3) and JB(1).

1-3603. de ballera carrala surts of lads 15-page docuco.

an bo sagrogatal aud maladead

No agree wilà its on

¿he selectad portiona that abould be exirectad for raloana (dec attached

marked copy).

The balanoe of the commoc, bonver, mar be considared

ereipt under (3) (3)(a) 81d (D) (6) of the POLA:

la sunary, it la recosmanded that the appeal be denied and tha

exasptions iphald on all tha rolated documents as liatod above except in che

CaBa 01 EX-3663. The paloctad porEsons ahould be santelzai and providad to

_ This recommandacion has boon siscussad with

Odi and ho concura vich our docialoa.

131

DiO Appeale Officer

Attachmenta: a/s

ISG/EXEC

30 July 1975

Distribution:

Urig.

& 1 - Addressee

1 - ОСС (Мт. Макошка)

1 - C/IRS

2 = DDO/FIO

1 - ISG, w/o arts.

1 - Chrono, w/o arts.

2

---

## Page 50

15 M1 ps

MENORISDON FOR:

SUBJECT

REFERENCE

Freedom of Infornation Officer, D00

IKS 7S-801 (Appeal)

Request foi

Agenes doctents

Nttached are the thirce Agency docments Listol in

our monorandun of 14 May 1975:

a.

Agency dispatch INNA-3::16,

dated: 23 June 1969.

This covering dispatch does not sention Subject by man;

Subject's photograph was forwarded as an attachnent to

this

disputch.

Two other attachnones listing Subject's

name on too flight manifests are not available here, but

the reference to his travel from Mexico city to Cuba had

beon incorporated into a Spocinl Channel memorandun to

the FBI, S-501,

dated 11 August 1909 (paragraph id of

Our

14. May memorandum).

b. agency dispatch IM:l-37509, dated 10 July 1909

listed requestor as a traveler to Cuba and listed his

passport number.

It also forwarded a copy of his passport

in an atrachment which is not ararlable here.

Special Channel Memorandum B-561, dated 11

August 1969 (sce paragraph la abore).

2. He belicro that the nbove mentioned documents have

been properly

crempted in our 14 May

manorindun under (b)(1)

5(B) (1) (foreign

liaison,

in this cass,

tho sections of

liaison) and: (b)(3).

The muterial is

not segregable for re-

lease,

as the miure of the

information and its

format are

such that the requester could determine that the information

doneeryans him was obtained by the Auchey through surreptitious

Relerso would thus violate

protection of sensitive sources and nothods

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 51

CONFIDENTIAL

One more docaone (nos intoxed into thie 201 file or

in) other records of this office)

has become availible:

Transmittal Manifest soosss, dated 28 August 1969L

This manifest lists Subiece imong passergers

striving

from Cab.d.

No covering dispatch was used

ind no source is given, but the information our bo oresumed

to have been provided by forcin linison

Thc

and is cortainly crempt under (b) (3)

The fornit and the nature

information do not maxe it feasible to segrogite and relcase

it/

4.

Attached is a segrogable portion of internal Agency

memorandum Ex-3005, dated 2a Detober 1009. This docunent is

it 25 page paper

and

¡ofors briefly to requestor, repeating in part the reference

to roquestors travel is reported in INMA- 37500 (Daragranh

1h abovole

The exeised portion of the dochnent is considered

exempt under (b) (3)(a) and (D) (6).

5.

Also attached are copies of three additional Agency

cables.

1550, dated 24 June 1909,

is referred to

in 10111-57509 (paragraph

tb above), and provides the same

information (except for copies of passports).

The reference

cited in

this cable, in turn,

is Headquarters 876, dated

24 June 1969, which

requested that names and passports of

groups

traveling to Cuba be cabled, as the information was

urgently needed for a paper being prepared for the White

louse.

This cable in

turn refers to

7320, dated

we shich explains the run tenderers ation

Although Hoadgurters 870

do not mention requestor by name they

rached for background information.

Chief, international Torrorisn Croup

Operations staff

Merichments:

it/5

---

## Page 52

3Wn conchates

D.0. 483050

12881

this

=.

*corney agreat chis decisione

crould line to dies

aLisio for male croister.

irish te advice that

taking the adrian do counscio

Sincerais

Cc. Congresanon Cory MetfetE

---

## Page 53

14-00000

CoM

12 Decomber 1975*

-MEMORANDUM FOR $

SUBJECT:

RE PE RENCE:

Chief, Informacion and Privacy Stuff

Roquent No. 75-1161

1.: This Directorato maintains an officlal file on

Subject.

A review of thla file and other records reveals.

the folloring information pertinent to Subject:

Twenty-nine FBI documents, Seo attached

11sting.

Five Agency documents (one cable and three

dispatches) concorned Subjoce's travel and activitlos

abroad and transmitted information

Ono special channel (B) menorandun forwarded

meterlal provided 1

to the PRI.

of this materlal to considoted exeript under pOlA, (b)

and (D) (3).

Five Agoney documenta (one cablo, three

dispatches,

srid one fold Information

report) To-

terrod to Subjoct's travols and activities abroad.

The nature of the Inforation could Identify the

source 1f 1t were released.

Ono RL memorandum, one

spocial channel (B) memorandum and one CSCI memo-

randum forwarded this Anforantion to the FBI.

Ono

scl memorandun forwarded a report to the U. S.

Intelligence Community

All of this natorial 13

considered exempt under (b)(3), sources and nothods

and (b)(1) properly classified.

One agency dispatch forwarded Information

on Subtect's activitios abrond provided by a U.

source.

This material •s exempe under HOlA

(b) (1) properly classifled and (b)(3), sources and

methods.

F2 IMPDET

CI. BY 012170

CONMIOEAOAL

---

## Page 54

Pour Internal offico memoranda (EX) per-

tained to Subject's travols, contacts and activi.

The source of throo of these was information

from the FBI; the source of ono of theao was the

Deparimens of Seate nesorandum to CIA dated 1 Feb-

TUATY 19713

All of these are exempt under FOIA (b)

(J), sources and methods, and (b) (1).

One Incemal office memorandun contains a

Mating of Subject's foreign travel.

It was Caken

fron a composite of all-sourco information, In-

cluding foreign

sources and is

considered exe inder lolA (5), and and (bel.

One Internal office (EX) nemorandun con-

cerning subject's background and activitios, which

included material fron the FBI, an Agency fleld

Information report fron a unilateral source and

an Agency dispatch forwarding information provided

by a

This memorandum

considered exompt under 70IA (b) (3) and (b) (1).

The following documents with sterilized segrosshlo

portions attached are considored relesseable to Subject

under the FOIA.

CSCI memorandun dared 17 May 1968:

oxeised

portions exempt under FOIA (h) (6), personal privacy, (h) (3)

and (b) (1).

b.

Incornal offico (BX) memorandum dated 14 July

19671

excised portions exempt under FOIA (b)(6),

personal privacy, (b) (3) and (h) (1).

Internal offico memotandum (EX) datod 26

Anril 1968:

excisod portions exempt under FolA (b

(o) personal privacy, (b) (3) and (b) (1)

Incornal office menorindun (RX) dated 10

July

excised portions erempt under FOLA (b)

(6), personal privacy, (b) (3) and (b) (1).

Attachment to a dispotch dated 23 November

excised portions exempt under (h) (6), personal

privacy and (b) (1).

Dispatch exempt under (b) (3

"sources

methods and

(b) (1).

---

## Page 55

1121

Dispatch dated as November 1965. excise

portions exempt under FOIA (5)(1) and (D) (S)

Attached aro coples

three documonts whiel

may be

used In obtaining revlows by the originatin

agencies!

Department of Army • ACSI-DSCC Momorandu

dated 8 July 1966

• Subtoet:

Transnietal of. Sun-

marlos of Infomation:

Department of Stare

toleran Coponhagen

2014 dated 21 November 1967

Departnent of Stato mamorandum dated 1

February 1971 fron Director, Passport Office re

garding Subject.

FBI.

Cable from Director,

dated 6

November 1968, Subject. Washington Mobilization

Committee to End War in Vietnam.

^1. 11235

Charles A.

Briggs

Chief, Services Staff

Attachments: NS

cc:

OPS/ITC

---

## Page 56

denatticutton c: FAl documents nuntioningl

TAS 75-1161, 30 April 19:5.

1-

Report dated

23 June: 1965, Detroit,

Michigan;

(no file nunbers)

subject: communist Infiltration of

Students for a Denocratic Society

2.

Report dator6 August 1965,

Detroit, Nichigan; Subject:

no buttle file

• по

FOF 1):

Report dated

- 8 October 1965, Detroit, Michigan

PLe: 100-53032• Bufile 105-142056; Subject:

- Security Natter - SDS

firert dated

6 December 1965,

lashington,

105-142056 (no

Bufile #) Subject:

Security Matter

5.

6.

S..

9.

10.

Report dated

17 Maj

1966,

hashington, D.C.; Subject:

no.

file a)

Report dated

17 May 1966, Nashington, D.C.;

Subject:

International Days

of Protest, March 25-26, 1966 (no

file

*)

Report dated

Re:

20 May 1966.

Detroit, Michigan;

(no file.$)

1l.

Report dated

30 June 1966,

Detroit, Michigan;

File # 100÷33052,

Sufile 105-143056;

Subject:

- Security Maiter - SDS

Report

dated

Subject:

14 September 1966

Detroit,

Michigan;

(no file ls)

Report

Nated

27 October 1966,

Detroit, Michigan;

burile

105-1+3056, Field office

file

100-25032;

Subject:

Natter - Students for a Democratic Society

Security

Rebort

dated

Subject:

FOF

35 stober 1960.

Detroit,: Nichigan;

[no Bufile, no

---

## Page 57

CON REMEL

12.1

Report dated

8 June 1967

Fieta office fuic c1 100-13602, Outane 100-138262

Subject:

"13.

Report dated

(no

file fs) Subject:

7 July 1967, Detroit, Michigan;

Students for a Democratic Society.

14.

Report dated

File H 105-11627; Butile 62-110030.

ZZuptember 1967, Detroit, Michigan;

Subject:

University Comnittee for Debate on Foreign Policy

Inter

15.

Report dated

(no file is) Subject:

7 December 1967% Phoenix, Arizona;

Anti-drale activities December

4-8, 1967; Demonstration at Selective Service Has,

Tucson, Arizona, Deceiber 4, 1967.

16.

Report dated

14 December 1967,

Portland, Jregon;

(no file is) Subject:

Oregon

Antidraft Activities,

Portland,

17.

Report dated

11 December 1967,

Cincinnati, Ohio;

Field office file CI 100-15928: Futile 105-142056.

Subject:

- Security Matter - SDS

18. Report dated

(no file #s) Subject:

31 January 1969, Nashireton. D.C

Intornal Security - CU.

19.

Report dated

report daice file due 196%, Cincin: to 1h2056.

Subject:

20.

21.

Report dated

10 October 1965,

(no file Ms) Subject:

washington, D.C.,

Foreign Travel• New left Groups -

Report dated

18 November 1968,

Jacksonville, Florida

Field office file 105-1613 (no Bufile #) Subject:

220.

Report dated

Field office

12 December 1963, New York, N.Y.:

File 100-115047 (no Bufile e) Subject:

Students for a Democratic Society - IS - SDS

Report dated :

(no file is) Subject:

6 January: 1969, San frincisco, Calif.;

---

## Page 58

2S:

26.

27.

28.

29.

Report dated

January

1969, Cincinnati,

Ohio:

Fiold office file Cl 100-15928;

Bufile. 105-142056.

Subject:

Report dated

* 10 February 1909, Nashington, D.C.;

(no file #s) Subject:

Report dated

14 April 1969,

San Francisco,

Calif.;

Field office file 100-55497; Butile 105-142056.

Subject:

- Sccurity Matter - SDS

Report dated

- 6 February 1970, Atlanta,

Georgia;

Field office file 100-7808; Bufile 105-178431.

Subject:

Report dated 28 January

1966,: Detroit, Michigan, Bufile

97-5029 field file 105-11615,

Subject:

Committee to Aid

the Vietnamese: -

Report dated 14 January 1966, Washington, D. C: no file

numbers, Subject:

Demonstrations Protesting

United

States

Intervention

in Vietnam.

---

## Page 59

Nf. Robert S. Young

Freedos of Inforention Coordinator

Central Intelligenco Agency, Wantington

Dear ir. Young,

Thank you for your loctor of upril 24, 1979, acknowledging

my Freedon-of-Information request.

Mero 1o the additional Information you ask for:

Place of birth

Date of birth:

The FBI. in a sinilar reply to a simplar request,

also

wanted sy Social Securtty number, which you may also need.

Thank you for your cooperation.

Sinceroly

ArR 29 7 50 RH 75

---

## Page 60

14-00000

STATES

UNITED

AMERICA

L

April Ll, 1975

Mr. 'Inbert S. Young

CIA roodom of Information Coordinator

CIA idatra

Langley, Va.

Deark, Young,

Pursuant to the provisions of the Freedom of

Inforsation Act,

plaase make available to me any materials

or fians the CIA may have collected and kept on my activin

ties.

Sinceral

SLOHY IT Y

9 | 12%

---

## Page 61

0: Deccaber 1077

MERRINDUS FOR:

AFFENETON

SURINGT

NUTRINCIS

Chrion, Tofornation Forick Coshittee (U)

ir. H. to Poon,

Assistane for Information (V)

1010 Appen

(F 15. 1100) (U)

Original Request dosen 1l April 1975 00)

11'5

Response dided 19. Fcornary

1076 (U)

Appeal letter dared 24 Februd 1976

(U)

1: (V), Sporary de Recommendations:

dudents

Rolease

additionind

Incopral ion fion six 000

inipially released

murerated versions.

Release portions of cighe 100 detaints initialiy

1010.

sustain the denial in coco of 13 a00 documenes.

Release

doctonts

in coto nine nous itens

discovered

and seton Dro

during the appeals

radice.

Daily

in

puro 15 p00 dorments discovered during

(U) Background:

•.

on 11 goril 1095 requested "ay

circria

or tiles die flA may lage collecte?

and kent en

arcivities."

the original

100 warch

27 DDO

dieurones,

29 FBl files, one

PHl. unble and thore other-

agends documents.

IP'S responded on 19 February 1976

---

## Page 62

releasing six of the DDO documents

and denying the remaining 21.

IPS advised

in segrocated versions

that the

non-DIO doctronts were being referred to the

originating agencies for direct response to him.

requestine full retire

appealed on 24 February 1976

"fill withhold dirts,

anil this

triggered in

additional

scarch with the colluring restles:

(1)

carlier

sine pres:

irons,

not considered under

vere located.

(2) 15 a resule of an exchange of referrals

between the 100 and the oys, mo accented responsibility

Far che documense dorred ty Tabs 28, '36, 32, 33

rerich-1.c. those covered by

13) 1s a result of a Privacy Act request levied

Jon the rB!,

the litter referred three

000

acmoranda, per P 76-180

Tio

of these--(SCI

716/02677-67 and ESCl s16/05757-67--had not previously

surfaced, but the third had been handled

initially

under Tab

19(H).

he informed the FBl be would

handle the former ino in the appoal.

re-checking

(2) and leiles and running down referenies.

He do unant one locaten carol rese

additions have resulled in a total

of si 000 doements

heing treated in this appeal

in increase of 24 since

she IP'S response, and nine picco items.

(5) Four EX menoranda--895,

referred

to the FBI

1070, 1076 for

2197 and 3363-.

coordination regarding FBI information therein.

The

FBI replied on

28 Morober 1076 rowarding portions to be

withhold and excaptions to he applied.

FJTA -18,789 daied 6 December 1965 (Tab 20)

for

Air Force data therein.

Air Force responded on 29. Octoher 1976 relcasing its

input.

---

## Page 63

3

(7)

Three FAl files)

in

addition to those

undertled during le

initial

sarch,

pore discovered.

DRC. 02629 and DHB-80223 note reierred to the FRI

on 5 Ocrober 1976 for direct contact with the requester,

and 180-24857 bus similarly Corarded on 26 April

1977

Three State Department doctrents were

forwarled to the Forenu of Püblic arrairs

on. 1

October 1976:

Tho of those here spare

negoranda,

aldered. to the cia.

Classpore rilled on 20 ocrober

to advise that both had alrcad been referred

The third document-rab 2l(D)-twas elcared

for release by the same telephone call.

c .

A classificition

cerios has hotn conducted on

Wo documenes involved in

this appead,

marked to

röflect this roview.

inal

all lure been

In those cases where

segregation of non-crept data has been possible, such

his been dentificd is

reconnonded for

In chose cases whore

release

the documenes have been

segregation of non-excupt

data pertaining to him has not

feasihle.

3.

(U) Recommendations:

See Tabs 12-45.

(U) This

monorandum has as yet not been coordinated

the office of the Goneral Counsel.

IDO

Appeals nifices (U)

artachments:

Tab R

Tibs 12-18

References

- As Stated

---

## Page 64

STATES

UNITED

Mr. Gene F. Wilson

•Central Intelligence Agency

Hashington, DaC. 20505

HE: FOIA Appeal

Dear Mr. WIlson,

By letter dated 11 and 26 April 1975, I asked for

my file. By letter dated, 19 February 1976, you respogred

with sore of the requested documents.

However, some

censored and others were withheld altosethe..

I hereb's

appeal: these deletions

I look forward to hearing from you within 20 dayn,

as required by law.

Sincerely

MAR 1 2 12 FH

---

## Page 65

CONFIDEATIAL

-164

2e Decenber 1975

HEMORANDUM FOR:

SUBJECT

REFERENCE

Chief, IPS

Request Nọ. 75-4681

This Directorate maintains a file

l. The folleing paragraphs describe the

tricuments held by this Utrectorate which refer in her and her specific

assoclation with the

Group.

The documents listed below are from the FBI and are exempt ger

1900:3(g) (4) of the Federal Register.

"Cormittee of Returned Volunteers

A July is ree of pen o to un are husber.

dated

Committee of Returned Volunteers (CRY)", dated 27 August 1969, from

Hashington, D.C., no file number.

"Committee of Returnes Volunteers (CRV)

dated il September 1959, fron Mashington, D.E., no file number.

Comittee of Returned Volunteers".

dated: 24

Septenber 1969,

no file nucter:

SM-R1!

e.

dated 2) February 1973, from New York, V.Y., Tile number 107-339235-416.

1. "Comittee of pete med do usess, doted 14 July 197.

file nurber: 100-45751.

There Is one Departnent of State letter, which is a requese fror

he Passoort Office Por Information of a security nature pertinentl

Idates 1 February 1971. ne file nunher.

although this leiter

1s expluded under 1900.3(g) (4) of the rederal legister, a copy is attached

for referra! to the State repartment.

E2 IMPDET

CL BY C12170

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 66

72-19

CONFIDENTIAL

The following documents may not be passed

One Agency menorandum dated 11 Auqust 1969 and one

Agency Cable dated 24 June 1969 which contain Information

and are exempt per (b)(1), (b)(3)(a) an

b) (3) (b) of the FOlA and 5(b)(1) of E.0. 11652.

b.

Two Agency dispatches dated 23 June 1969 an1 10 July 1969

which

contain information from the same source as. In paragraph 43

above. The same exemptions apply.

5.

The following three Items may be passed

coples

are attached for each.

In all cases.

the excised portions are exempt per

(b)(1) (b)(3)(a). (b)(3)(b) and (b)(6) of the FOlA.

a. One Agency memorandum dated I Decenber 1971.

b. One Agency dispatch dated 6 December 1971.

c. One Agency dispatch dated. 30 November 1971.

E. Form 3533. 1s also attached.

Charles A.

Briggs

Chief, Services Staff

Attachment:

As Stated Above

---

## Page 67

4-00000

August 7, 1975

LOG

S2-Reil

Robert Young

Freedom of Information Coordinator

Central Intelligence Agency

Washington, D.C. 20505

Dear Mr. Young,

I understand that under the Freedom of Information Act that an organ-

can seck disclosure of any and all information and documenta

that the Central Intelligance Agency may have collected pertinent to

lts activitles.

As the resident of the now inactive, but still existant

, I would 11ke

to request any intormation

and documents that concern

the organization.

Also, as an Individual I would like to reauest anv information cocerning

my activities.

I would appreciate iny relevant inforation that

you could send along.

I look forward to your reply

and well as in restads to maysell

Sincerelv.

---

## Page 68

SECRET

19 September 1977

ATTESTION

SURJICT

REFIRINCES

chairman, Information Review Conmittee (U)

Mr. 11. G. Bean, Assistant for Information (U)

Fold Appcall

Initial Request dred 7 Angust 1975 (U)

ClA's Response dated 6 April 1926 7(U)

C.

Appeal Letter daced 5 39y 1976

(U)

1..

(U) Summary of Recommendations:

Rolease additional intomation fron three documents

initially

relcased

segregaied form.

are excepted inder (olIo send 000600101e

sustain initial donial in loto of four documents

under

exemptions (b)(1); (b) (3), (b) (0) and (b) (7) (C)

of the 101A as applicable.

c.

Rolcase in segregated form tienty-one documents

discorered in

the appeal process

Deleted portions are

exempted under (b)(1): (b)(3), (b)(6) and (h) (7) (C) of

the FOlA as applicable.

"Deny in toto seven documents that here located in

the appeal robier.

These docents are bring

denied under

exemptions (b) (1), (b) (3), (b) (0) anil (h) (?) (G) of the FOlA.

0001e.

Pass in into six overt documents located during

the appeal revich.

Refer to the FBI for their action

an identification

list

nine additional FBl coports that nore located

during the appeal revicw.

Refer one document located during the appeal review..

to the Department of the Army for their

action.

CONNICETTW

Detached From

Allachments

---

## Page 69

Julics

2.

(U) Background:

ciA requesting

On ? August 1975,

wrote the

concern.

" an organization called the

remand information and decuments that

Ms. Barnes explained that thei

"an inactive, but still existant" rescarch

group of which she is the president.

_also

stated:

"...as an individual I would like to request any

infornation concerning my activities."

b.

The 6 April 1976 response

stated

seren blO documents

form.

were being released in sanitized

This memorandum also stated that FBl and State

Department documents had been surfaced in our search

igency for action.|

was also informed of her

right to appeal.

C.

On 5 May 1976,

appealed.

information de unitial reviek, he seagch yas socitedono

including any association

with thell

she search las broadened to include any information about

regardless of

association with it. This

Tater search located additional

•documents which are included in this appeal package.

3. (U) Recommendations:

Tah A-1 contains nine overt documents that I

recommend be released

in t0t0.

Tah A contains the DDO documents that were

considered in this appeal case.

The Appeal Review Form

to each of the documents reflects. my recommendations

concerning the release of the information in the document.

All meaningful, non-exempt information applicable to this

request has been identified and is recommended for release.

A classification review has been conducted on zach of

the DDO documents reviewed in this mppeal case.

A DDO

officer with national security classification authority

has asserted that each document is

marked

in

accordance with E.O, lio Properly classified and

., as amended.

SECTIO

---

## Page 70

SLUNLI

3-

c.

Tab C contains the identification of nine

FRI docunents that vere surfaced during the appeal

search.

I recommend this list be referred to the Fil.

for their action.

d.

Tab D contains a docunent that originated with

• the Department of the Army.

I rocommend that it be

returned to the Army for their action.

Tab E contains a copy of the document that wis

referred to the Department of State for their action. and

a list of the FBl documents that were referred to the

FRI for action on 10 March 1976.

These documents were

surfaced

at the initial review search.

Tab F contains an FBI document that contained

classified information

furnished by the ClA.

FBI referred the document to the ClA for revier. A full

text copy and a copy as approved for relense are atrached.

The tuo Cla documonts that here surfaced by the FBI ind

forwarded co. the CIA for action are included as docurents

32 and 35.

(U)

OGC has not yet concurred in

those

Dilen it Sheen

Helen H. Stilson (U)

DDO Appeals Officer (U)

Attachments:

- References A through C

Tab A-1 - Documents to be released in toto with appeal

pachage

Tab

- Dho documents reviewed at aupeal level

Tab C

- Documents for referral to FBi

Tab

D

- Document to be reforred to Department of Army

Tab E

- Locuments

Tab F

-

referred with inicial review

Referral

SECRE

---

## Page 71

May 5th

Gene F. Wilson

CIA Information Review Conmittee

CLA

Washington, D.C. 20505

Dear Mr. Wilson,

On August 7, 1975, I trade a request to the CIA under tha

Freedan on Information Act for intormation, and documents

_ By letter dated

April 6, 1976, the agency aged to release a newspaper clipping

and three censored documents. The renainder of the reguested documenta

I hereby appeal the agency's denial of my request for

documents on the ercunda that the exciptions relled upon do not

apply to the requested docurents.

In reviewing whether classifled information

is tjll properly classified and therefore

excripted trun disclosure uner subsection (b) (1) , you should be

fomally Lisbanded three years ano.

In aidtion, I have renson to belleve that the agency's initial

roply is incomplete. In partferiar. the documents released by the agency c

contain only one publication

Tie docurents already releases

Indicate that the agency was at least aware of other|

publicaticis.

I hereby request a copy of any catalogue, 11st or Index of these publications.

As to any documents or portion of documents which are witheld

after this appeal, I hereby request:

(a) specification as to whether the material pertains to

or to the

(D) as to material withled on the basis of exemption (b) (5),

names of any other agency which Initiated or received coples of

Inter agency memoranda; and

(e) as to the material witheld on the basis of exemption (b) (7)

the authority for the law enforcernet activities of the

Central Intelligence Agency and the function of the investigation.

May !!

? 43 PH'76

sinierelv

---

## Page 72

2 October 75

NEMORANDUM FOR:

SUBJECT:

REFERENCE:

Chlof, Inforsacion and Privacy Staff

Request No. 75-5747

This Directorate has no file on

Two Asoncy documents, however

were surfaced.

documonts

aro deniod under (b)(l),

as baing properly

classified under F.O. 11652 and (U) (3) (sources and

sothods) FOLA.

Release of the portion concerning

Subject would

probably identify the source to him.

Thus ,

these

documents must be denied in full®

10/ carlo: do 966d9

Charles A. Briggs

Chiof, Sorvices Stast

E2 IMPDET

CL

SY 012170

COWaRFATI

---

## Page 73

SEP 5:

1c4 PH *75

125.75-5742

Freedom of Information Act

Robert Young CIA Cordinator

CIA:

Wasbington D.C.

20505

106

SERPCH

Dear Siro:

I bava rosson to bollove the CIA may bave a record file on

me •

In 1961 I wag a momber of an Anti-Castro group In the Ploride

Boys...

timo.

And resided on Fo lane Key In the Florida Keys for a

Since I was A devote anti-communint at tho timo and partloipated

la a raid or two (that never accomplished anything), I'm

courious to see lf entthing la in print roganting my 8o oalled

wild oats! days and tinder the Troudon of Information Aot

I hearby respootfully request a copy of any possible filoo

---

## Page 74

& December 1975

ME LIRANDUM POR

Chaiman, Infomation Revier Committee

ATTEVTION:

NE. H. G. Bean, Assistant for Information/DDA

SUBJECT:

DIA (peal

REFERENCES:

A.

Original Request, dated 1 Sep 75

B:

Reply to Subject, dated 29 Oct 75

C. ippeal letter, dated 10 Nor 75

Summary:

It is recormended that the initial denial as stated

in our reply of 29 Oct 75 be affirmed, based on Title 5,

U.S.C. 552(b)(1), (5) (3) and (b)(0) as applie to the specific documents

mentioned herein.

2.

Background:

a.

on him.

initial request bas for a copy of any Agency file

b..

The original search revealed two documents

Jwas denied the document in toto.

appeal states that he is perplexed at why the

documents were denied hin and requests the documents so that he can

correct any possible misinformation in the record.

3.

The tro dociezents 35e:

Agency dispatch UFG: 2192, 23 kg 61

on ANCIEER/! meno

of conversation

and others who

This dociment is denied under

(b) (1) properly classified, (b) (3) protecion of sources and methods

and (b) (6) protrition of the privacy of others. A representative

of lal Division does not wish to declassify this dispatch, and I concur.

Agency menorandim CSCI 3/707455 dated 4 pet 61 is a memoranium

to the FBI containing the information in UFGI ?192 plus file traces.

---

## Page 75

14-00000

This document must he denied to protect the former deep cover asset,

This document is denied under (b)(1) proper classification,

(b) (3) protection of sources and methoils and (b) (6) protection of the

privacy of others. A representative of l' Division does not wish to

declassify this memorandum, und I concur.

Reconnendation:

It is recommendel that the initial denial as

stated in

our reply of 29 Oct 75 be reaffirmed, based on Title S.

U.S.C. 552(6) (ka (b) (3) aid (b)(6) as stated above.-

5 .

OCC has concurred in the above.

DIO Appeals Officer

Attachments:

References

Agency dispatch UFGA 2192,

23 Aug 61

Agency memo CSSI 3/767,435

---

