# 104-10189-10066

## Page 1

104-10189-10066

SECRET

RYBAT

19 JUL 1967

MEMC RANDUM

SUBJECT: Ramparts: John Carrot UNDERHILE Jr..

Saruel George CUMMINGS. and

INTERARMCC

1. Ramparts of June 1961, Vol. 3, No. 12, pp. 28-29, contains

the following passagos abaul subjecta:

"Tho day alter the asedraination, Gary Underbill left

Washingion in a hurry. Lito la to eroning ha abowad up

at the home of friends in Now Jorsey. He was very agitatod.

Á amall clique milaio the vil' was responsibla for tha as-

sabalastion, he coafided, and he was afrald for his lilo and

probably would bare so loavo the cousiry. Less tan six

monthe later Underhill was found shos to death in bio

Washington apartmeni. The coroner ruled lt sulcida.

"J. Garrett Undarhill had been an lotelligence agent

during world War ll and was a recognined authorisy oa limi

ted warfary and amall arma. À rosearcher and writer on

military affalo, ho was on a irat-name boals with many of

the top braon In the Pentagon, He was also en latimate terma

with a numbor of bigh-ranhing Cli officials - be mao one of -

the ¡goncy's "a peoplo uho perform apecial sosigamento.

it one lime be bad boon a friend of Samol camminga of

Interarmco, the arma broker tsal numbers among its cua

tomera tho ClA and, Ironically, Rein's Sporting Cooila of

Chicago, from whence sis/ the mall ordor sarcano alleg-

edly ins purchased by Cawald.

SECRET

RYBAY

Dangers on.

---

## Page 2

SECNET

RYBAT

"I'he frlendo whom l'norhill visited say ho waa sober

but badly shook. They day ho attributed the Konnedy

murder to a ClA ellque which was carrying on s lucrativa

racker in gun-running, narcotics and other contraband.

and manipulating polical intrigue to serve lia oun ends.

Kennedy supposculy got wind that something was going on

and wao killed before he could 'blow the whiatlo on it'

although the frionds had alwaya known Underhill lo be

perfectly railonal and objoctive, they at first dida't take

his account seriouoly. 'I think the main reason vas."

explains the husband, 'that wo couldn't belleve that the

CIA could contain. a corript elemont overy bit as ruth

lesa: and more eificien- ae the malla. "

"The verdiet of suleide In Underhill's death la by no

means convincing. His body was found by a wriling

collaborator, Asher Brynea of the Now Repablle. He

had been shot behind the left car, and on stomatic platol

was under his left aide. Odd, enya Brynes, bocause

Underhill was right -handed. Brynes (hiuke the platol

waa fisted with a allencer, and occupante of the apartment

bullding could not sacall hearing s shot. Underhill obvi

ously had been dead sevoral days.

'Garry Underhill'a chilling story de hardly implausible.

in a apy apparatue the Cli la honeycombed with self-

containod cliques operating without any real central control...."

2. 1 eheck of Ageacy recorda has yielded the following information

about Joha Garrett UNDSRHILL IT.

₫. DPOB: 7 Mugust 1915, Brooklyn.

b. Attended high school in brooklyn and was graduated

from Harvard In 1937.

e.

Died & May 1964.

SECRET

RYBAT

---

## Page 3

1d-0d0

SECRET

do Vas a pletorlal journallos lor 1.lfc, 1938-1942.

c. Orderod to activo dusy with MIS, washington, as

a socond lloutenant, on & July 1943, Served With MIS

for 4=1/2 years, working ou tachnical and photograpble

boading for MIS publicalions, evaluation of Intolligenco:

and enemy uniforme, insigila, weapons, etc. CR

9 October 1945 received a var Department stall citation

1or rupertor work la mililary intelligence. bolt activa

suby in May 1946.

1. ClA memorant of february and October 1949.

, whow that there was latorast by the New York offico of

CO, Contacte Divlolon, In asing Subjoci an a costact lor

foreign Intolligence. Name checks were conducted with

vartono military membors of the intolligence community,

but these yoldod Insulficient Information, and OC wa0

aduleed that contact should be devoloped with caurion, on

= lImited baals, and that Subjact was not to recolvo la-

formation classllled higher then confidential.

g. Da 12 March 1958 nallonal agency chocka wore

agala requested on Subjoct because of interest by the

Office of Socurity.

b. A UP artielo of unknown dale cites an article written

by UNDERHILi for Loquire.. The articlo doscribed the U.s.

Army as chochdogly vort. Tho UP pleco slated that

UNDCRIULL served is millery Intolligonce in horld war

I and Koron. UND&AHL, dald that he had served 30 i con-

multant (probably in 1956/ 80 airmy coordleating gromp.

do A report of 6 Augast 1954 from tho Olfice of Socurley.

Department of Stale, concerns contacts between UNDE!UHIl

and one Herman AXELBINK, To was trying to sall photo -

grapiss of soviet military subjecte. UNDER!ILL roported

¿hese contacta do tho j'13l and 80 clA. In November 1949

SECRET

---

## Page 4

14-00000

SECRET

RYBẠT

UNDERHILE volod "ashington to call the attention of ClA to

certain AXELBANK piclures and was aduleed that Colllerg

mighs be Interested in somo of them for an a

3. Cutbo baalo of the foregoing an Inquiry was mado of direc-

sor, Domostle Contact Sorvice, whose office providod the attached

roply.

is chock of Agency racorda has ylolded the following Information

about Samuel George CUMMINGS, 201-178343.

8. DPCB 4 February 1927 Palladolphia.

b. President and solo owner of INTERARMCO,

"probably the largest international arma dealer la tho

world". (DIR-01286, 16 septomber 1960.)

c. ¡an a staff employee of CJA from December 1 950

to November 1951. HIVCW-2756, S Auguet 195%, as wall

sa other pelorences, list him as a former atall employee

who hao no prisent CIA allillationa but who continuos to

act ad an FBI source.

d. Other intelligenco contacts: State, DIA, and the

Vi eat German BND.

•. The INTERARNiCO Arm has been used by ClA to

acquire and dispose of weapons, ammunition, ase. CLA

had no control of the flem and no proppletary iniorest In

i8.

1. in entry of 1 June 1907 stalog that Jubjact lus beca

torminated without prejuilco.

SECRET

RYBAT

---

## Page 5

ta-tation

SECRET

RYBAT

3. gency pocorda contin sumerous rolorences to INTESARMCO.

6. It do noted that Subjecta have not appeared to dils in any publie

or classillad roporto of tho Carrioon investigation in Now Orloana.

RYBAII

---

