See
fone cuaiED Oo
Chief of Station, WH/Miami [AN rose wobaee

“Chief, Western Hemisphere Division

Chief ot*station, Mexico City micRoriae

F aang TYPIC/KDAFGHAN-

Progress Report “for Period 1 October Thro

ROW REQUIRED - REFERENCES

References: A. HMMA-41087, 29 Septemper (1971). 94. ;
B, MEXICO CITY 18336, 24 November Lq7 yd
C. HMMA-41240, 5 November. oe :

D. HMMW-18065, 24. August {19 ae
E. MEXICO CITY-18654, .7. Janu y(197 9) :

Action Required: . Paragraph 9°:

1. Summary: ’ Information came:to li uring this period
which causes the. Station to believe that GatPanan may be under
the control of, ,or known to, AMSTAFF....The Station mounted an
operation to determine if this is true, but was unable to’complete

it. Our efforts continue. Details are given.below,.,' Production i
quality and the percentage of identifications increased. Costs. i
remained within the allowed amounts. : oa i kate BO

2. Security: As Headquarters is aware, TYPIC operations: at : i
this Station have been unproductive since early 1968. Consequently,
the COS, the DCOS.and, more lately, the TYPIC Chief, have begun.to
plan and work TYPIC operations on the assumption that AMSTAFF is on
to us. An incident in thé@(DAFGHAN operation in the past quarter
tends to add weight to.our hypothesis. In submitting his November
accounting, €DAFGHAN-1 inadvertently included ‘a bill for a long~
distance €411 to PBRUMEN (Reference B).o2While this in itself is
not enough to convict (KDAFGHAN-1 (or (KDAFGHAN-2,; there is no :
indication on the billas. to which one of: them made the call), it ©
is enough to show extreme indiscretion on his part. This prompted
the Station to make a complete review ofpghe case and to plan a Cl
operation designed to show whether or no’ GDAFGHAN 1 and: or)(KDAFGHAN-2| |
was under control of, or being monitored ‘by, AMSTAFF, The results
are as follows: : : H

Continued...

Distribution:
Norig. & 2 - chief, wHD
1 - COS, WH/Miami -c|?

TTR cremains SE EOL, ont es
ofew}l January 142)
ie! FH \b205|

<<50-6-122/3 *

HMMA - 41490
cwsiiaTon

can or

SEC RE Ti =f
a 7 P

to assets (including KOAFGHAN photos), there 1s Stz1i
a possibility that misuse of QDAFGHAN photographs by
either JKLANCE or LNERGO overosthe: years may have also
been a contributing factor. We note that they were f
shown. to,{KDTUCK-4 on various occasions in the past and
that he ‘rag been recently terminated because of our
doubts about him. —

Continued.....-.--

‘| rp)

i
h CLASSIFICATION PAGE NG.
FORM a 1 ~ 7



~nIeé oF

PRET OR

The review showed;

ate review

a. The agent was originally
JKLANCE Station
to this Station,
him suspect

@ Walk-in
in Havana. He was
This in itself is

by
‘urances th:

no idea where th, (EDAFGHAN site is

backed up this cfty with photos of

isitor,

out like th,
that Refer,
only too correct,

title it has always been the
to sterilize aly Photographs,
to assets (ineludin# &D\rGHait
citpestPility that misece of,

‘© proverbial ¢
ence p was,

that neon been
doubts about him,

Continued

and

contiNuED

this particulas
yplkDar
ANE

cause of our

GHAN-1's
INK has

Past ang



qin] Continued.......

Désbara to be and gDarG of the JKLANCE section of AMSTAFF.) While

e. The simple length of time that this agent has been
in operation could also be considered as a possible
factor in exposing him sooner or later. We also
note in passing that his home telephone line shares
the same pole distribution box as that of the AMFINK
consulate.

ve
f. One item that becomes evident when reviewing (xQarcuan
files is his repeated failure (with some few
exceptions) to get photographs of suspects or agents
that the Station knows visited AMFINK while he was
purportedly on watch.

4. Given the above the Station decided to%ount an operation
designed to determine once and for all if the KDAFGHANS were
either under control by AMSTAFF or if their activities were being
monitored by audio coverage of the Safehouse or OP site. The
DCOS designed a sophisticated scenario to be played out by tne
Case Officer which would, one by one, eliminate or prove Sach of
the above possibilities.’ No other Station assets were used, this
to eliminate any possibility that they might be the source ofc
leak. Without going into a mass of details, the plan basicalle
involved letting enough information slip bit by bit to, KOAFGHAN-1
so that he, or some AMSTAFF Case Officer on the other’ind, would
draw the wanted conclusion; namely, that 201-327262 was working
for us. Unfortunately, just as we got into the preliminary stages
of the plan, 201-327262 was recalled. It is our opinion that the
operation had not yet gone far enough to consider this recall ne
Proof of our suspicions, but that it was mere coincidence, How.
ever, two points that arose during this operation do bother us.

At one meeting KDAFGHAN-1 mentioned (or let slip) Ehat the ANPINK
chauffeur had gone on vacation. While the Station was aware of
this we are hard put to understand how he knew it. ‘Then, during
the same conversation with the Case Officer (perhaps realizing
his mistake? py KDAFGHAN-1 began to backtrack and started to tatk
about how he“"thought" the chauffeur "might have" gone on vacation.
The second point is that he almost invariably reports within
few days when an AMFINK employee drops out of sight. He has yet
to mention the departure of 201-327262, This attempt by the
Station to resolve the matter having come to an inconclusive end,
we are starting over again and will soon begin another similas
operation.

oz

5. Plans: We are working under’ the assumption that ANQUAKE/
ASTAFF either looked for and found (QAFGHAN-1 or that they found
him through checking out his mail and calls to and from relatives
in PBRUMEN»yWe are further assuming that they then either doubled
him or (@bateian-2 or that they are successfully monitoring the
operation through a combination of physical and audio surveillance
(we note the fairly recent arrival of an AMFINK referred to as
ol tecnico” ~ 201~886735 - whom we believe to be the younger
brother of 201-812106, The latter, our records show, was last

(KDAFGHAN-1, and (KDAFGHAN-2, will obviously have to be terminated,
we first intend to do our best to prove our hypothesis. If this
can be done, we may be able to put this to our advantage. In the’
meantime, he will be handled under the strictest of compartmen-
tation. He will be given no further lookout assignments, be give! 1]
no indications of our particular interests in any individual
AMFINKS or their activities and, obviously, we will not proceed
with the plans for the audio operation which we suggested in

PAGE NG.

3 of 4

4

CLASSIFICATION |



ERE EERSTE Re ee et

paragraphs 14-16 of Reference A. We will start a search for a
replacement site and agent_as soon aS Headquarters indicates that

they believe the continuance of such an operation iS worthwhile
(thestation believes it is). We intend to continue to handle
the agent just as before, indicating our greatest confidence in
him. We will proceed to improve his equipment and operation and
go ahead with the planned technical consultation (Reference E)

to demonstrate this. No sensitive equipment or information will
be involved, We further intend to SGSWIRL this agent at the first
opportunity, He was last SWIRLED on 18 April 1967.

6. Other Operational Developments: Other than the above
the operation continued as usual. The Case Officer had another
dawn to midnight stay with the Agent to observe AMFINK and its
activities and to work with the Agent on improving his. production.
Quality of the photographs has improved and es of the
PBRUMEN visitors has, with the use of KDGLACTER) passport photos
increased drastically - we are now hitting! over eighty percent
identification of TDYers and transit personnel. The planned MO
studies mentioned in paragraph 12 of Reference A have not been as
successful as was hoped for.°2DAFGHAN-1 and 2 are so set in the
routine they have established over the years that the above
mentioned instructions to change their way of operation have met
with resistance. This is being overcome. The one outstanding
event of the period was our obtaining a photo of (Si\CEMENT-6's
alternate courier (to which KOAPGHAN-2 had not beéralerted).

7. Agent Personnel: No changes. The break in their regular
routine occasioned by our requests for more work on their part

and by the extra and irregularly scheduled meetings caused by

our CI operation seemed to have increased {KDAFGHAN-1's already

bad state of nerves. The Case Officer sent “him on a three day
vacation to Acapulco to calm him down ~ and it did somewhat.

8. Administrative/Finances: No changes.

9. Headquarters Action Required:

\ a. Advise if Headquarters concurs with the Station as
to the desirability of continuing with this type of
operation after the projected termination of the

ov (SDAFGHANS .

b. Please pass this dispatch to the JMROD unit. Their
suggestions are solicited.

z
c. Please retrace all known relatives of (KDAFGHAN-1
and 2 and advise the Station of the results.

Dts Kite

psesse R. GARDALPHE

7ipd
S8-E-/294

PAGE NG

Glebe | tof 4

53a use previous gorion. SECRET

CLASSIFICATION |

