# 104-10418-10378

## Page 1

104-10418-10378

SECRET

hile xed

else files

SD

29 January 1960

He Do Stev

THE IRE HARVEY OSINED CASE

4351164

agar column of "Allen and seott" In the

her 1963, en the PSALa Case, Abran CHArEs,

sall to her been turalred in the bentlies of OsAsa's cue us suel

Aetton StarT) en E Mares I961. The regrent for CHAYS" clearance see o

"Blanket" requat to perait asementon with his of Sc staz/a nettera da

a sent toninou tasis.

: a state (96 201 a ta ta to ee request ora

vas Arebstald ADOSaYER, Jeo

On 10 Filaway 1962, HUAN EVENTS reported as follow with

reference to CHIlESs

Representative Pranets E. Walter (R--Pio),

Chatre of the House Comittee on Unrelean Activities, has

seared the ney state Depertment regulations on parsports, elain

ing they would allow hods denied passparts to "rifle freely the

condonties, files of the lul, the CiA ani other meat griva

agonclee." The um behind the nor regulations, which halter

elatus violate the Internal Security Aet of 1950, 16 reportedly

State's chief Legal offler, Abrem Chores. Chayes, & Kennudy

pointes, la u ex-larvard professor sho vas Chester Boules'

top legal alviver when Borles ms Governor of Comectient.

walter has introduced legilation to renedy the new passport

regulations."

SECRET

Dip

1271

1029

GROUP 1

Excloded from artomatic

downgrading and

desieselfication

---

## Page 2

13-00000

SCUNCI

cantanet enplegee as ARACHTY.

10209

plant to my 1933 an

ACerVe in len Tort Clty, Mo Cal Me cunontied en 2h Hurt 1958.

KISE as

D.C. during the perlod of about a your which ended in April 1952, was the:

only person the koe by none with thon Mst ma triendly. According]

to to many hums a emmet touse larretty vase dates

ns 423 Pumall Enlt. MUSkE Us Searity disaponored for ClA employent

In Jme 1952 because of his close apociution on a professional and social

Ibeels, while attending Denvar Univeralty Pron 1945 to 1951, with zersonn

ot partionhle loyality. In Forber 1954, MIll Mo of Interest tó

Project FrAVE with retere to asilgreat to

hovover," the Interasted offles withrew their request optinyarer.

seaurity advisee of

the dementor turoration regarding hit.

9n. tree from 1951 to 1954 eubended Searielle Mich Sehool in Seuralale

InImus In tho schost sater Fe Ini overal Pestionable assoctates 1u

adition to Mast

Me Do levens

SECRET

6B0UP 1

•Excluded from automatic

includ

ja natas anton:

declassification

---

