Bhovitnaaas

uaa? Gur,

red
ress

para 15

33
3
f
8
2
z
s
g

ge

ge
3
aq

E
é
2
i
z
i
2
i
2
H
Fs
2
3
&

trent numbBéred to corre:

S Biogy

Si bese
60009

ch
before fchhor

and:

60608 a é
g 0 0/300 J9G Hoo 2e9000GdO% <
700000009 O92 O00 00 6e0eeandaet

PIP PTY CE 440060000696.
> % 9 9. ’



TSVTVoOoGe ees ovocoeseveecaocvcdva

UFeyeusrsowsers

OHO OOOO OE ROKBBBRHRAOOOS

ogephical
: dnfermatdon ot ths bottca of tha mamoranéa hag been eddcd to Esedquartere enf

we : .

To ° : Chicf, FR 3
FROM : Chief, China Uiosion, roa

SUBJECT: enana— Oparatioxal |

eracimo— DY end FDI with regard to visa applicants, relatives, ant/or
zz Sharactgr References presontly in the United States

mater (gio Srotruction 50-9

de ee Bsadquarters
end not forwarded to OMICID in coxpliance with referencia: dl

2. GHAND Hung (2728/7703), lm Charles H. CHAE
2. YIK Ohonm-yeh, aka YIX Yoon=teo, oka YEH Ghon Yeh (5509/2170:
ea YGE Ym Chih {(g50970396/0090) ond wifo, YIK Che Ying (3509/
3162/5391) aka KAO Gho Ying (7559/3161/5391)

De Ebtached ero copies of visa macrania forwardsd to ODIO) containing

eeoe

Sbo rg
nod Lersarded to OMAGID since that portim refora to porema tho ore living in
tho Unitsa giates and who may bo United States ofticons. Tho bi

401d copies only and contains nases of relatives or referencss presently in
the United States:

30 paowfarocany, Exaterina noo LOX

be BARIBVETS, Iven (Johann) Harcanovich ond wife Marla Alemndrowma
nee BUPILEIM, and daughter BANKEVITZ, Feofanis Ivanowna

So EERKOVITGH, Foiga (Fenny) noo FARIS
: 6. GaAO Heang-cla, ak GHAO Kuang ia (6392/2604/4872)
+" "Qq CHOW Rober’, olka CHOW Wen-bin, ala CHOU Gea-pin (0719/2h29/2795) ;
8. fro Grow Machoro of the G. 8. ELM Fos, Taipsh

LEP ROY
or Gng

oo eer ee ee eooneene
dll

an at TURE

ele e- ae le-
baa ° ana o °
eco Co °
2 fe — >
2 oe, eee geese i



5

gz

4a
e
0
ry
o
©
°
cy
e

WE,

rN

10.
“ne
12.

Aas.

15.

16.

22 -
Grndone, dated
i au;0 2
KRIJANOVSXY, Gladys ‘Svetlana noe CONSTARIE (or SKTTONE) _

LIU Chtungshtung (0491/150h/9164)
‘WICOLACHIS, Heleri Anastassios nee COCCALES

WONG Mi-sheung, aka WONG May shoung, aka WONG tora May Sheung,

(according to characters provided: MIANG Nei-chtang (7H06/5919/1603)) .

se WoO 2ao Hwa (irs. LEE Ching Dea), aka LI Jo-hua (2621,
: aka WU Jo-hua (0702, 5387, 478)

‘YAMAG’ CHT, Kozo
ZBORCVSKY, ‘Benjanin Nicolas (aka Venismin tidolaevich) and wife,

Iydia, neo S“OLI"

a
@

Attachments-(16) three (3) copies to each

in accordance with the above listing

2h September 195)

Distribution:
3, Chief, FE

pees

rere

so ee

»eee

5387, 5478),

eee eae ea awe ane nie

°
2
°
°
°

°

.

e
°
@
e
e
e
e

°
°
°
°

°
o
°
e
°
°
°
°
°
°
e
°
°
.
°
.
°

reas oevmaeranseoegeerereeseee

3

Co

H



Porwarly Sioniain, Row, now “or trend Stitt mee

Ro ho files of thio affica reflect that Moalsi Nicolnevich KRIJANOVERY and
Wife, Gladys Svotlam ove OGITAMLL, stateless, ferusrly of Bukden, Tentsin, and
(an of Row, ware epplicmts fer imigration vicag te the 7. S. ding August, 19!

2 @» Biealei Woorlesvich ERYJAW RT Listed the foldesing falsticcs in

Gxaot ian tith hig applicaien: Fat Siesind 4 ‘AR TUANWSKY, no
ivaccunmmar? F 69 Vin valcstre, Reams

‘OTISTINIS sana ctivess as nother; sisters Ysraro

@ ‘ho EALANOTSIs Aioted Wr Poflef. Ki, OoD.Gs, Ho Coy “Clavaring?,

Cooma fo Bo oe Coosa, England, co o character refereme who is
Gwlcasly tami Git tho arplicamta’ character roforenca,

&  camstian cith the flo chock camisteld ty thie difica, ths fallem
ing ixtunmtia tas funished the Etesay ct Kose fm our meucrendm dated
8S Suploatar 1952:

¥ES to notad that eubjoct otetes that his feather fio deceased, Infce
cation Gstcd 12 sy 19k%, evaluation Co3, indioatsa thst «xa WAIWaRWwal,
Gm, on cid ma, was a gate cateiem of Pansulate in Pientein,

° Infomatia Suns 19ls TRI SONOVSIOTA ord bar
ne ee
Gxizg caplancge fa tho fo esther aod émgiter exitested the

capa caplicd Gamay

tha cutireck of coian wer in Jum, 15) ‘fig osc écounsct elco
or8e2 Chat ons UAGILEER wea a conker of tho Sport Atotilung in Mentein,
titer Gp Cha nore convincsd national ecoial isto.

GO§scd indicstes thet ‘to cas ance explayed ty o Ee ULI ot tio
tients Intarmtion dated £0 damary 19D), evalustio 6-6,
states thd & eas @ Boviet estivisd in Mentain, ai a sombr

ay Ee oes Acasolatica, «nd that he waa reparted to be willing
Gieait fn anna

eo 8 @ e es 8 © e:e
eo 3°
oo @

eo °@

ee 8
a er er)
eo 8

ees
e
°
°
@

°

oe

et igitte nie timate iHeHti@ tt ®

: ete eo ee ele
.

fica ar enrew! pr paeRmES Y “MS2EN™
° : 2 ° o eo
: an

20 0+

ore etree eeceantcete

a oe a er ee eae

,eeees eevee ene ee Oe


14-00000

2° 8 8 0 Sere aasdar ecesseSeeeeeeyeeeeee eceeetuceees erento iettCs Peer

eo a e @ . J « be it - + . .
2: e ° ° ° « . ~ - . H

earner) cae eetew tee sities : [ eo
tact et ate! eee rea : - secret
eo ete ®- 7

Cedi

°% “ne

“RJA, Clatye Swotlena uo orem (ae SKC? ER) Paro 2 a
ww

i Inf agaat Lon QD Wetorer 1949, evslustion reflecte that no id

Selman ‘aa ceosoiated vith I.

o
oa
°°
2
°
a
a
4
4
4
q
4
q
a
4
q
q
a
q
q
j
fj

Roviot wariar, “4 wes the wopricter > a 7 iF
interest was ecting eg o ov-risr boteoan tsinztac, Ticrtsin, av! wiping,

“Tnfcpatinn dated 7 Novesber 19,4, uvelinted B-3, “rtleatns that
DICTESUEZO, the “rarer of the Talladien Vignt Gluby Mon
who employed cibject bran danwary 1946 to Yay 1914, mao @uspested af
ing in blest sartst eras arc! gxunition.*

'
.
.
‘
.
°
.
.

2, The coolicat and her husband, ‘Nchilea FRUIAT VST, aro progmad to be
Yemreical with the RIJAVWSKYs referred to ebove whe wore enplisants 7 ring 192
at Rezo. Tho reouds of this offics do not indicate whether or not Uwy ware
guecegaiul in sbtaining visag on that occasion.

e

Dd. be afegammhgerre bal? bwaedrtehibmcid rach iti edad tha foll wing reoart °
io tromgt to your attentimn, e
°
es Gls -anhelbed ef) eseairtarodhath ov Pimie numartdaty ites evaluated C-~3, .
rofero to the esganicatian of the Sovict Citisens'’ Club in Taig .
Secaers (Geen mmneiny Onastene cr wou eal Ga oe aia emg tho i
nentara of Goaiétee of the club was ome N, ¥g'RRIJATREY (also
Sawa aoe zs
°
(2) tgp GP coer rg Lore eloven of ths
Camlttca, ot leavs Gm, tesily afeanpsy cadiosmmesaerrt(
tore suspected «® boing than ongaged

hand end ct leasd tao othure, eee ace,”
of having femworly argages ta intalliganes cat’ tisa oo
babalf of tho Swvieta,

& ge Seem ak | ae wee a ee eae ae
Wang ‘ange

es Pha filca of Wiis effica reflect that KG, Eritich, formerly
Suaok te Sots ass this Song eae Si

via (2 tho % 8, uring Jum 19k. Eb Listed

U. WME, ofo ANO%., Ho 8 Puke Strest, Foullesa, os a character referanc

& Bro Sileo cf tala civicn failed to chev cay tress of krtter ODT Dy
ba3 &¢ wma noted ths} ho hail tse exgloyed ty tha Britie>turian
Pstesso Compa fa G £3ya whic wes belicved to hove bom extatilicnsd
to provide & "sums? far igh csommmle intalligence activities,

@ Aine COLIN licted tis wife ca Telia r
ecg ata Cant ea a aan gaged ty tho Tee Soas 8 Caapany co of
38, bepe pprrtet adrete lee toasty Soovar® Sar tha eallegtion
of camaia od Gieal inteliigensa for Sie Brilsdh Intelligence Sarvicke

a Tho Wo HOHARD wantien in cub-para, (a) above is wesmud to be identical
with the tar, Wh J. HOHARD licted ty the applicant.

@ tho infaratio est forth in cub-para, b. and o. above une furnished
the Consulate ot Hong Keng in the remorandum fron this office dated 9 duly 195%.

Go No tsvestigation onducted, Sauk

.
.
.
°
*
°
e
°
e
°
°
.
e
°
°
°
e
°
°
°
°
°
°
‘o

obeoeoeeeoe
@oneneonoeeeaheses oe

eo
2
a
2
)
a
2
e
2

8

ry
e
ry
«
os,
5
to
a

oh

°
°

°

e
°

°
2°

°
°

°
°

°
r
°
°
°
°
°
e

coe ee

>
>
>
°
°


ac cee ATI OA Ae. OID TS I CTE a = = aeanee nnn
y~ ee ee es i ee

se oe

@x46

* < ay i = «
- .

cao le ae ieee :
eet

er a a er ae :
.

a i

ERLJANOVSKY, Gladya Svotlana vee CONSTABLE (2 SRgTT OWE cage
4

HRADQUARTERS ORLY

6, Pe H. KENT, Coodan Sea Rd., Sussex, Engiand, was listed as a sharactar
reforence on the immigration viva arplifation of Alexandra*PETERS neg ICHERUAKOFF
British, fprmerly of Harbin, Peihsian, Tientain, and then af ?rence ‘Haris?}, whan
PETERS epplied during March, 1953. The files cf this uission reflected no
PEEERS. P. He KENT listed by PETERS, 18 presunad to ba idantinal with the?
KENT, shown by ERIJANOVSKY on her applicatian.

7, The infarmation furnished in Pare. } was extracted fran a ¢}
to tha files of this mission dated } January 19u? addressed tc
subjects "Soviet Srganiaat ims, Zientain - Soviet Citisena’ Clubs

Subject bora: & July 1917, Tleatsin, China
Prevent eddresa: S26] Walidloy ave., Apt. 5, Moutreal, “anada
Bxployment: Rent & Mounsey, Victoria Torrecs, Tiontein, 1939-19Li - Private Secr

Koiian Wining Adwiniatrstion, Veaduws Rosd, Tia: LPL-LISE
Stanographer

Yee Tooong Tobacco c., Ltd., The Bund, Tientein, 195) daran to Ang, 1950
Stenographer

Banqua da i'indschins, tienteia, Chins, 1950 to 1952
Buropeen Photeamatours, Plasaa Tetria 12, Rowe, [taly, Sepe. ©
March 1953 - Private Secretary % Stenographer

Relatives, Jesea Thonas SKUMTUUR, futher, born ab Onehan, Isle of an, Wigland - geitish » |

degbased |
Mor¥ TosHTM) sother, bora ot Unsen, Japan ~ Japanese
No, 13,/h-choma, Oimasatchomeauhi, Higashinarike, Osaka, Japan
WicholasuRLANOVSKT, husband, with subject, employment; 1'Rnergis
Blootrique, Tientsin, Shina, World Council of Churches, Rom, {taty.
Londgn & Lancashire Jnsuranss Co., Montresl, Quebec, Canada
Doris HOBNAR,! sister, 311-0 Tochun bir., Canp Peadletos, Uosaagide, Calif.
(Subjegt's dostinat&on in tha U3.)
will N, Wother-in-law, Mariue éf the United States, at grasent
in Korba
George CONSTABLE, Urother, Lost niv life in Worid War fi

Referenoser Kr. Pp. H. vf KENT, Clavaring, Coutes Sea Road, Cooden, Sussex, Rigland

Mr. VW. J.fHOARD, 8 Duke St., Hong Kong
Wr. A. 14 HAHANOVITOH, 2ulS Duncan Road, Montreal 9, Quutec, Canada

Griginstor, Barton 1. Caspian

