# 104-10431-10078

## Page 1

104-10431-10078

5x-25598

Io:

Assistant Deputy Director, Plans

From:

Chief, SR/CI

18. 833

Repost en

Subject:

'Cable from Chief, SR Division, re Possible KGB role In Kennedy

Slaying

The following is the text of a cable from Chief, SR Division, sent

via closed channel from Frankfurt at 2316z on 23 November, for the attention

of Mr. Angleton:

"I. I desire that you consider these reactions to the Kennedy

assassination:

2.

a Within minutes of the first news, Moscow radio statements

as heard in london attributed the assassination to "right

wing elements."

Only as the true identity of the believed

assassin became known did Moscow begin to complain that

U.S. reactionaries were using Osvald as a pava.

b. Should not the assignment of 13th Dept. officers to the KGB

residency in the United Nations In New York be considered

In a new light?

I discovered frol Arthur Martin (of

during our 100g

and exceptionally valuable discussions,

that one of Harold

Wilson's principal scientific advisora Is Captain Ian Maxwell,

who has a long Soviet intelligence background. This may

shed new light on AFLADLE's report I.e., that Harold Wilson

may be & Sovlet agent.

Putting It baldly, was Oswald, unwittingly or wittingly, part of

& plot to murder Fresident Kennedy In DaLlas as an attempt to

further exacerbate sectional strife and render the U.S. Government

less capable of dealing with Soviet Initiatives over the next

year? If AFLADLE's views on Wilson and the information noted in

paragraph Ic above have any substance (and they cannot be ignored),

this suggests that we can expect major Soviet pressures over the

next several months, for which the Soviets have made careful,

long-range preparations. "

2. The above reference to 13th Dept. officers In New York refers to the

presence, reported by an FBI penetration of the KGB locally, In New York or

Washington of one or two known officers of the 13th Department of the lst Chief

Directorate (Foreign Intelligence) of the KGB. This department is charged with

"liquid affairs," sabotage and assassination.

33

One of the 13th Dept Officers,

Document

Nuinber

-537

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW

CONDUCTED ON 1 6 APR 1976

for FOiA feview on APR 1976

E/3 BIMPDET CL BY 0 1 2 208

RECORD

23 Ner 6.3

201-289248

---

## Page 2

13-00000

by the way, met clandestinely with a Soviet "exchange student" from a

Pennsylvania university during the school year 1962-63, which suggests that

the Soviet student 1s also a 13th Dept. officer or agent. Perhaps

significantly, his course of studies was In food chemistry!

You will note that Mr. Murphy's comments come without benefit of

the traces we passed to you earller today, showing that oswald had contact

with a 13th Dept representative in Mexico city.

Another recently-arrived cable, being sent to the Director tonight,

suggests that Oswald's business with the Soviet Consul was connected with his

own visa to the USSR and Cuba (In transit) and may, therefore, have been

really rather than ostensibly Innocent.

I. H. BAGLEY

---

