# 104-10192-10216

## Page 1

104-10192-10216

REPORT COVER SHEEr.

SECRET

PROM

JAKAVE

NEPORTING OFFICES.

Alexander J. RATWICK

REPORTE ONFICER

ROVING OFFICER

WATE 08

•'CE Ca.

-BACHON

D-DATA AND COMALAY

TYPIC

Source:

ANTOD-1 from AlDoGl who attended the neeting.

RID: Please index:

"RAY Rivero, Manuel

201-238298.

ANOT NO = UFG-72,09

37 HE

26 May 1965

MICROFILMSO

JUN 8 1905

DOC. MICAO, BIR:

Group 1:

Excluded from

Automatic Downgrading

and Declassification

OPTIONALI ENTI

4

1

2

Has,

00/C

16-10

JNBARR -

COS,

Santo Dons no 118

COUNTRY

SUBJECT

NIED, NOT BE FILLRO IN IF DUMLICATED IN ACCOMI

DISTRIBUTION

VING REPORT

КУГУША-ЛОКРСТ

Miami. Reps:

1 - State

FBI

1 - I&NS

2l Copy

UBE

ENTION

NO. OF INCOBURES

PEFERENCES

PADA

SECRET

IS C! Y

joor:

на, pAGka

2

1: 300-100

---

## Page 2

14-00000

FIELD INFORMATION REPORT

GRADING OF SOURCE: A: Completely reliable.

#: Urually polialle

C. Fairly enliable:

P. vot usually. reliable.

E: Nol 1a8:9, 17.

o sinaces se criberal honasy or tovalty, régardiero of their compétare ol

!Applied

fi relating connot 'de judied

PERIN SOUrCESI

APrUAISAL CE CONTENT:

di Controd by othor independent and reliablesourcon a Probably true. 1i Pousinty rue di Doubtful. Sa Probatty

•lalsa: @i cannot so judged

CONFIDENTIAL

CONTIOLLIN DISSEN

REPORT NO.

DATE OF REPORT 26 May 1963

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

COUNTRY Cuba

SUBJECT Lecture of Manuol Ray Rivero

to Members of JURA'S

Delogationg

Iron Tep. Orlando, and Want,

Florida

DATE OF 22 May 1965

INFO.

PLACE &

United statos, Miam

DATE ACQ (34 May 1965)

UTC 7209

SOURCE,

A young Cuban exito who has been trained 1a Inforition collection.

His past roporting his been accurato but lacks. dopth. This

Infortion was obtained fron a person who attended the lecture.

1: A 90 P. on 22 day 1965, kanue FM

Junts Rovolucionaria Cubana

Esve tho opening docture In a cycle of oriontation talks" to

25 or 30 membero of JURi's delegatione fron Tampa, Orlando, and

Miast, Florida, who had fathered at JUlE's offices at 1460

We

Flagler Street,

Ray began by saying that JURE has the men and equipment necessary

to wu the mar of liberation in Cube.

He said that tho organi

tion has many good revoluttonaries and democrats in its ranke

1anide and outside of Cuba, and emphasiied that JURE's thesis

1a the

sano salt ms when the orcanization ma founded only

an internal Covolution will overthrow Pidel Castro Rut.

3.

In regurd to ars; Ray sald that JURE bad left sone weapons 1r

• Dointcan military baso;

-and that these weapons would be

returned to him no matter who takes over in the Dominican Republic.

Ray sald that it is nocessary that the Cuban ortles In Miant and

in other Cuban exile colonies donate and collect money so that

Cuba can be liberatod fron Communise ithout the help of other

countries. He cited the exarple of the endeavors of JURE"s

members in Puorto Rico In trying to sell Gravi toothpaste and

soap and in raffline off cars to help defray the cost of purchag-

lus oquipment and of matrtaining the M/Y VENUS, • 110-foot vessel

registerod 1n Panama.

Ray said that for every

$1,000 worth of

Gravi toothpaste that JUNE sells, JURF will make a profit of:

$400.

Ray proposod. that each melber of JurE plodro to raise

CONFIDENTIAL

CONTROLLED DISSEM

GARGAI

Eschatos A-s automatic

DISTRIBUTION

6 004

---

## Page 3

CONTIDENTIAL

CONTRUELED DISSE

UFC 1309

$100 each month for the nost ten months.

Although this motion

was passed, sore of the mombers commented that it was rather

late to start asking people to contributo money to JUrE.

Ray concluded the lecture by saying that although JURE has

the organization has survived the

worst part and ls in good shape.

When asked Just when JURs

would be point to Cuba, lay sald thater good revolutionaries

must have patlence.

1. 1163, TOC501-315/00302-65, 8 50-315/00269-65, dated 26

See TDCSDB-315/00539-65, dated 16 February

65, dated 27 January, and

TDCSDB-315/00283-

January, for previous reporting on JURE's base and equipment

in the Dominican Republic.

CONFIDENTIAL

CONTROLLED DISSEN

RA 8.,0..

---

