ER WILL CHECK CLASSIFIC 96 TOR ANG BOTTOM
: GoerwesTAe | SORE

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

SLIP

PREPARE REPLY
RECOMMENDATION
RETURN

‘SIGHATURE

DIRECT REPLY
‘DISPATCH

lll
a,

, if
i 4 nit len

hed.
}

yc

Pbk ob
/
ne tl acl ie

ae

ers fel 23 facie eee +10 coneeentat seating oonct ons e—ser



MEMOMANDIGE FOR: Dircotor of Tratning
ATTENTION + Chief, Covert Trainiug/os/m .

Rha

ous
KERERLACE 2 Fruposed. frutatog Curriotlua ror [E107]
Tralacea Frou CC/us/Th s

Stiwner : Covert Training for somber ot[C!
e organutzation

i
Olre te Foqueated that covert training be given to

thefEl Soo }tratuees iiuted volow for the period of & Murgh ~
30 April T965. This will be the second Broup of (CIWOOD Oi

trainees undor this prograu which was initiated hy the

I ‘ ranch Yhreo of Wi Division through
Osnr Cuiof, Cuvort Training, in Septeabor

19645 Rroup bono loen given an 8 wools covort

colrge ending on 26 February 1965. The trainees will be
fo Moshiogton undor tho uotional cover of “partioipating
in watt itary training courses* or possibly a "yurchaalog
wisaion" vir Guverusioat., Aa auch, they will not be
formal visitora ind will not be expected to enter
Joulquarters Wuildiagn, oxcept for one day training in
the K&S Rutiding, or to nest Agency offiotale

o/
2. Froject[ertus
nettyity white oa
Yor a

fietai ci
providing advice und guidancol OUtE m7
intelligeuce toforcatiun jar : ia belleved that
covert truintug can help tuprove the effivieucy and

RENE PRET RET car eee arian



au.
whi
40 vat. tho ostroaiat

: urganization- to woro-erroctively co?!
yerwntod by tbe

: ste gaorrtl La “wud torroriut activity tog
f vL Cana with afd and oncoura;7sout

jot Varty Gt
Vi froa_ Cuba, _ fa jeeting waxinue ateentivs from
vastre. ta his effart to brivg ‘giovt eéuayeist tole-over
_ ta butia ‘Auoriea.  Huaides the toheront valus of the
ayaiuing itoetl,, the cewating of the tratving will
“ymitse: Nei Mie orae [ia stat la ovannk tat anon tn 8.
ii
wy sisssisastanssaataser iss is Orlantution im Counter or
Tasargeney fe Bleo velig Taditeed. to give! Jjoftictais ase
sg peruater waroncos oF the provien aud thus loy the
ground work for fature work “io this rield.

3. Tho respons bk fosk oporatiors officer for thie
course WALL be Mr. Luho will te Loown
: to the trainocs 69 ELIT Ca Neace identity he
soe used with tho first grou. ay kgenoy serviced tesophon?
Buber, 638-3100 bag Leo arsengod and will be given to

fhe trainees ao a uusuer eLOTe fini Cabal” con bo
x ig gorviond 24

the gued An on emargcucyer, The suate:
; ite fmmodiately notifiod to
vr

. ie
intorus! eecurt of a will ounvlo this

oly

houra a day and Hr]
the persone who neko vor bea at thot nualor.
the weatod in room 3u2013 of Neocquartors buildin,

j

{

i

extonsion 4521. i

4. Tho followiug 18 pertinent Liogropbic data on
pueuaeee

. the troinces?
‘ a. [ite colonel)
eae D¥UB: &
Narital Status:

26 Septouor 1929.) O8

Tan threo

Married 9 Apyil 1049.
_seall ciilareu.

High sohool

Forual Educat lon:
unknown)...

ot

ia

aoe cow oe Taran
Sehool at Fort Donning, GeorEles

senrgs0 and studied Engligh At |
\wortcan University “Io {ist} fer]

Tarey |

|

i

be attcnded the) ____
Sebeo! of, War) for approxizately

12 noath



Yanguoge AbATAty:
(bogiish listed ca

* previous Intelligence

’

~3-

sag tte
* fair

cuior of Aduiuistration Bicven

gentira

Spanish ent sore

Freaent Statu

Arca hnowledge: Tas vinited tho USA and Ar

None ‘tudo:
probally bi
aug

Trointag:

nunscrtuguy conatderd” TB e(piteutiot 3 fly
\end suggests |-

reoruif{on retura tq, _
he bo Given speotal atteution. ||

J |

Marital Status:

Other:

bYOb:
has 6 swall childreo

Morricd 1962, |
aT wee ; i

YA Lime LAE)
_ de lo8 ‘
1

gh School
muatored the

Foraal Education:
¥.
o aut bea taken
a advanced courses

tntermed
fu tho! Traraatrg) setool.O
Ke has ‘Comianaded rifle glatcoas

ad has

ond tofantry companies a
ugen an tuetyuctor e(larestry
(Benoot of tha Arey. 0)

Language AULT nly ootive Spautel {
vreseut Statui JJurctotat; oxoct title aot H
witooted. I
rrovious Intelligence :
Troiaing: not indicated i

colonel Hy i
prow: i
H
2
i
FH
f



=d-

Forvial Cduéatica: Not ttated, but _probahty a. |
groduate of bol 10°
a Military jondeay.
: Louiiage ALALity: Not indicated ee
‘© | proseat Status: [Boruty Director of| | pS. i=.
ci os oe

Frevious Tutelligence :
Training: Not iudicated ny

‘Aréa Knowlodge: Kot iudicated.

Othor: || jbas recently boon voacd(Doputy, of
pirestor of end alould be given
doferouco as tha lecdor of the group.

a. (&. cotonl) SDS 4 :
prop: E Aus ua w76,[Ssststs—~—C~stSOSSCSdOV

Martial Statug: Narried, three children

Formal Education: [igh Schoal 1949-1044;
ey 1 aleny M4
wate). Also gaaviet

gpectalized coursad 1oCiufaatry
Gactics and Tank Varfaro, fea well
as tho course of atudy given by
var College of
‘iulotry of War.) Be
ae cerved iu o variety o.
“Sopaoities withka th
Bince 1947 fturann
hidg froa plataona through
°
1

bottalioua us wol!l aa atroot,
f artillery. (Me haa aceu avtion

tho Ruerritles tn the ] O¥
fo Borved 10
ue asa

o4 datea—u
“weavor oF tho| sleston
to "Oporation Amerioa™. (Yk

Language Ability: Native Spenish, roads vut does
not speak or write Engligh, Mio
coupetence in understancing Knglish,
1s given os “tair",

aay i guaitpaniagicastepritastesuanavanespesnessnulg



F

bo: ‘

‘g only travel outside of

Arona auowledgo:
. was tal

Irevious lutelitgonce

Training: None findioated but probably ff
has bac sous intelligence
TY] 03

training during his @l?tta

axcor,
Oo ‘
Cthar: Ue tafCeiof of| lof th:
nud wifi probably return to this pos =
ia_oware off

it is jusnible that

th,
et
SOF the Folaticoship.

“iste for trafuing have_¥ rat
oud are petiding ToL fon
is gas hat the trainees ara avare of tia7
affiltation of HeORscstony nd tha’ raiuing Will ve
conduetod by CIA. The(bfrector o ie aware of
HURSCIJOOD'@ CIA cenvototion and vas alee received by the
DCL on 24 July 1964 durieg a visit to the 0.8. :

@. Training Requirescuts: The trataing ohould be
hold iu a safehouse, conductod iu Spnutsh and on a full
tiue basis. Tho vuggcatcd dates are frou 6 March through
3O April 1965, which bave Loon approved by Chiof, Covert
Training, S/T’ Thy trainees Vill use ugtiousl wiiitary
trataing cover during the trainiug period, aud it ta uot
entictpsted thoy will autor Noadquarters lutldfag. They
will be tanen tuto the t & S Tullding for a ouo~day
indectriaation tn Seals aud Flaps and Audlo Survoil lance.
Hoquests Cor thle eutrauce will be covered in a eeparate
paragraph. A‘one-day orientation course tu Conuter :
Tnaurgeney 1a aleo diseuased in a subsequent paragraph
da well ug an extouatve two-veck course ip Flana and
rorGlaor| lat a Tu Sufo House.

oyutrenents fur v82/Os/Covert Training:
Cie suliaittud the following recotucodattoag ae
ich should be covered Le the tratuiug of these
ofticcra: O1i/os/Covert Traintog may nodify and/or adapt
tho list us nocessary.

a, The Orgartvatiou of Clandestine Activittos

b, Security

©. Observation aid deneription (Cam lags



i

surveil Linco:

Matiasehiont:
Terdiuation . See

f. Craniestiuo Consunications fete
g. Counter Intolligenco ~
b. Interrogation

i. Reportiag
j. Intelligence \ineeha and Analysia

Ground Nranch of SOD coke
tho services of lonol wailable for a one-day
oricatation in the latest toc’ ques uscd in tho field of
oounterinaurgoscy. Tue trainees oro woll avaro of the
Genoral provleas and history of fighting guerrillas and
‘Oro actively engaged in oporations at tho preseut. it te
suggested that the justructione strosa uae of fotollizesee
in combatting guéfrilla groups oad ceona of procuring it
to inoludo the crenticn of intelligence nots acong peasants
fu-the afflicted arecs, It is aloo velioved that cay
current fuforastiou“on wodiftoations ia the tactios of
Mao Tse-tang would Aloo: bo Gf valuo a3 would be exanplce
of the use of puychologioal varfore programs agaiost the
guerriliog cud tho Aintollootual loadere of the cocaualst

party, considered as tho noviug foree Uchtod tho guerrtlla
rovouent{inl (Qt 10 proposed tha’ vp 193
who vould use the alfao of "vill Cabal". Aak: ec
to the office nn that
a2 9 consultant avery km

counterinourgency problous ag & ceubsr of the
Iutornational Lolice Services Acaden; ag talked to other

aa
Lotin Auertean officials va this problon as part
overt duties. It is veiioved hie talke will cake, i:
coro uvaro of tho throats of iosurgency movencots

O @ ground work for possible future association with
lor the iGovernnont in the couatcrinsurgency

8. It io requeatec:



do this fold.

* oS:
tho Fluje ao

-T- F

f{teld. Through ef} biel of the Ground tranoh of
| SOD. and te, Vall, OF EGo wane branch, snishait doy

ortentation courvo was givou tu tho Cirot trainecn who
suggested that 4 full doy vould be sufficient duc to the
evel of tuo above trutueos and the exporienos they have

o2

With a Finys snd Sool course for the
April at u 73D Safe Hotae, It te believed
ad Seals course will Lenofit CIA uecaune it
“will offer HURSCITNO the opportuaity to caiutain claser

coutact sie t2 bo rosponsiblo fur this typo
activity[in (ae ral reiooes to make a econcertod
le Totter titercept £1014 to keop better

offort
the axtreae loftist offorta to overthrow the

governaent, and it fe felt that Mite
can keop atroast of the cporation. Beonuac of q
respousibilitios, it ia beliovod that the nore effioTént
effort that] aa sole i flold will result te
the henofit of CIA.p Bajo wouta take the firvt six
Weoks of the covert training course then dovote the lost
two weeks to the Flaps cud Souls course,

10. It is also requested that TS9/Trotuing provide
@ On0-Gay course in Audic Surveillance oud flaps and
Seats for the othor three trainees at the K & $ Nuilding.
This should We a very geuoral briefing with the lenot
pogsible onphasis on ocapiicated, oxpensive equipuont
that aight be later requested hy tho trainoes,
believed thie general introduction will give th
trainees sono idea as to eypronches ant probleas tuveTved
in these fields an wall ov tho pitfalls that ohould be
avotded, This one-day course waa given to the firet three
tratuoen who appeared fayroused with the couccpte oxposad
to thea. This subjoct tas ulso beou diacusaed with Mr.
Luria aui a fira date tes Loen selocted for the training,
Tho oTit {ustruetor will cecoupany tho trainees aud aot

as trauslator.

A
yor &

Lope presto mee

CER mene pe



It ts raguestea that C1/M obtate -perntenton
for tho viettors to enter the it S butidtug for thig
he 49th of aprin.

troluing which ts Sohouulod for

‘ cane
Western Kentsphero Bivistoa

Coneu: rances:

Mor Tratuing aud ualitication leview
A. (24 Fen, 65)

Distribution:
Ortg SL —Addresece
L - por/rro

t
L oe

2 ~ Tsp/ritng

1 = S0D/Grouna ’
1~cAam

1

2

i nas

