104-10226-10081

wa [h pe BEL
a UR

ae) iy
~2
Inforeatton on Seven Cuben Internal Resistance Groups

Information provided ua by our {internal asaete and Cobar ex-

filtrees indicate that seven groups opposing Castro are making efforts
to consolidate into one unified resistance. A brief description of
the groups follows: i :

"a. Movimtento de Recuperacion Revyluctonarie (MRR): The
primary strength of thie. group'lies in the Ravane area, the Santa
Clara area, and certain ‘srees of Pinar del Rio, Its militant member-
ship nuxbers 175. Communteation with this group ig maintained threugh
one W/T cireutt and sy coumhications, | The leader of this group, one
OMAR, t presently in the United Statestand ts about to return to
Cuba, In hie absence, ESTEHAN 14 the acting leader. Although in tho
past we provided this group with equipoent, won@y, radio operators
and trained speciaiists, we have recently only been able to get 1500
pounds of materfal iazo them. “However, we are presently attempting
to infilerera teo radto'sets co this group and backatopping their pro-
curement of operational funds. locally through depoeite made to donor
accounta in the United States. This group gives the rose prowise for
effective operations and hes 8 pocential for sabotaga, propaganda and.
intelligence activity. externally, the principal representatives are
Rafeel Aurelio QUINTERO (tha GAR) end Juan Manuel GUILLOT, The MRRL
faction ef the original MRR contains as external leaders Ricardo

’

LORIE and Hino DIAZ. .

eet Pree ow ee A a



chew ae aes cane ene coer mettnes Ns Ategy Ca

-2-

b. Hovimtento Revoluctonario sel puehlo (eRP): ‘The peinacy :
strength of thie group Lies in the Ravana and Les Villas areas. Ite
militant mewbership ie approximately 150. we ro longer have W/T
Communications, but.qust rely on courlers for csmunication with this
group. The group is ‘not yet reorganized internally to an extent *
suffletent to involve iteelfin operations of note. The group's
representative has recently coms to the United Stetes, and the current
internal leader in one ANTONIO. Manols Ray vas forverly the external
representative of chia group. Exteroally ite principal representa-
tives are Rogelio CISNEROS, Ignacio MZNDOZA, and Marcos WILLIAMS, “
Ray and his former chief aascclate Col, Barquin, Pazoa, Chibas are
not closely associated with the present active elements of one MRP
with whom we are in contact... - . ae

CK Bateas Bevoluctoneria (UR):" This group is composed of °

some thirty small fections with the primary strength resident in the

Provinces of Oriente, Matanzas, Ravana, acd Pioar del Rio with the
poastbility of sons few peuple remaining ip the Escanbray Mountains
of Las Villas. We np longer bave W/T commanications with this group;
the former radio operator was captured. In Auguat of 1961, of its
leaders, CESAR was reported to be fepeares and JUSQO took asylum and
is presently in tha Dnteed States. Prosect toternal teocenanie is
RICARDO. Commm{cattons with this intemal group will have to be re-

establiehed vie the use of «.courler ae soon as feasible. Externally



E

F

reeset pe,

aia

principal _Tepresentatives are Albertc PEANANDEZ Echavarrta,

Zsyss, and Cesar Brito.”

a) Movimiento Democratico Cristiano (KOC); The primary

strength of this group resides in the Orience and Matanzas areas,

‘aithough they have some representation in Ravana and Pinar de RLo
provinces, This group enploys sound security practices in its activity.
to 8 greater degres then any of the other opposition elements tn Cuba.
The former group leadar Lucas PERNANDEZ Badue is presentiy in the
United States; the current internal leader is Albarto del JUNCO MESA.
Contact Ls maintained with this group via SW means. Although tts
activity has been limited, thie element has the potential for the
conduct of teststanca, sabotage and intelligence activities, The MDC
ae a Catholics labor organizacion numbering approximately 100 members
within Cuba. FERNANDEZ, thef{r present external coordinator, ts;
oe stently undergoing troining.. The former external leader of the MDC
was Jose Ignacio RASCO. . (ene!

@. 30th of November Group: This is a small Labor group number-
ing approximately fifty. ‘The organizer of thts group, ome DAVID
SALVADOR, bao been in prison in Hevana for some time. The current

internal leader {eo one BENITO. We have courier communications with

" this element which is Deltevia to have a good potential for sabotage

peerathoaa. zxternally, the feacershtp ‘Of thie group is in doubt



f

eget

ree individuals are competing for control: JESUS PERNANDEZ,

VORIGVEZ QUESADA, and ANDRES CARRILLO MENDOZA.

f.. Rescate Denocrative Revoluctosaric (RDR): One cf. the

arcuss forming the Democratic Revolut Lonaty Front (FRD) and the sub-
sequent Cubsn Revoluttonary Gounctl (CRC). They are believed co
nunber twenty-five, and have,a Mimtted capabiltty for parantlttary
and propaganda activities. The only communications existent with
this group is ‘by means of courfer. The true external representation
cf this group is somevhat confused since ALBERTO CRUZ, exfiltrated -
by the CNR to represent the elemeng was replaced by MENDEZ FEREZ at
the direction of ANTONIO VARORA of the FRD in Miazt. VARONA ts the
titular head of the Rescate. |

8. Directario Revolyctonario Escudtantel (DRE): This stu-
dent group, which engdges in hem{spherte propaganda activity, from
Miami under agency: direction, also retains strength inside even though

on
its former ‘leaders have been aptured and imprisoned: In view of the

Latin atudent's tradittonal characteristic of resistance to state contreis
we.expect that the DRE can revive quite a few assets for action inside.
Its external Idadership is presently Manuel SALVAT Roque.

Representatives of these groups say they have formed a National
Revolutionary Council (CNR) ‘1n Cubs, and many of thetr representatives

have insfated they owe no allegiance to ary exile organizations,



oo stom

apparently referring to. the(r ow externa! groups, or te The Cubs
Revolutionary Council (CRC). This attempt to form an internal werger
, j has created considerable confusion in the crganizations Lavolved.

our beat estimates of the groups’ strength fae that they could muster

b
y

‘690 - 700 action agents throughout the isiand.
f :



4 way et fo

paper o
: der 2964 K
ie (aes hd ae

1. WELL CONCEIVED

A.

in

x.

Ned-polisical Group -- bdfittrate oovea men, Recruit, develop.
asd orgunine reolstance, intelligence nots, ots, Underway

by mid-Novembey. :

Samo non-polities! Oroup -- Team as above, infilizeie five,
operation will bo underway subject to weather genditicns.
MRR -- Beffersticn operation. Deliver 350 pounds demolitian.
Inlilrrate political leadaz, exfiltrate two ethers, Undereay
gubjoct to weather conditiens,

UR «- Team composed of tntersal leader of group plus
intalligence coordinator to be lafiltrated by 1 Decamber.
Indopondent group keeded by EVELIO DUQUE e+ Train five’
soon for group 15th November. Training of oporator will
proceed currently. Fivet three mon of this group will go into
Sierra Cristal an or about 20 Decomber,

Ancthar Ingspsndont group claims contact with OSVALDO
RAMIREZ ta Zeeambzay, whe desires support. We havo
given guidetinco for operations. Calims hae $10 mon with

training and bave infiltrated genera} atedf,

MBP «. Intend got four people of this groap inside by 15 Deceinber.

AMHAZER, - Ex MAR - Man with exporience along Camagesy
goast bso feasible plan fcr establishing mangrove caching

fine liity.


H
i
i
|
‘i
t
i
i
i
i

coed o2e

_ Above ia sampling of oporations ia this category, All above

weve training W/T, othov eupport facilities, provided ov slovely
euperviesd by CLA,
POORLY CONCEIVED DUT MARMILESW

A. Restate o> Thilo grou rpeponed to pet fs @ tanm to oatablish

eontact wth istoraal sesote, Group witheat communications
to inoide and hava opavaters whe rafest to go in bitnd, ;
B. MBP on Good fateatlons Sut thaly divest proposals, as opposed
toe these cader cur direct sepervision, repestodly turacd dows
: by 2s because of had boats, aa W/T, ot,
: - almost
G. MDC ee ced placa, good inertinso, fall ssacto outeide, Jack
militant group tnotdas
POORLY CONCEIVED BUT LETHAL
A. ORLANDO S9UTO » Prepossd to harrice a CTC volty tn
Ccanqultp Siedtom te Miramar tual gt by firlaz ‘1S sara highe
quploatvon tsto atedbash forse cif shore, Told him ue dice,
B, DRE oc Plan to agesul! BONIATO prizca, io apocttica.
Would be ef gonsral tnesrest caly under plan of overall Mbera-
a undes
a _ Whits Crosa eo Asarchistic appresch. Propare teAake asy
: ammash and gvab cperotios. High vieh factor, Algh lessees.



= Taman ttinanertepanpigaeerenen pte peey

RT ore ner

Hg

Auk nee’

Sarrescorth « Pl

hinvimbento de Recuparactin Pewturigzario ~ MAS

1, RICARDO - refected In WAVE'948

>
2. WAVE $947 whieh te ocheduled for 135i. oe

3, WAVE 998? ~ operation BRAZIL

4. Operation VILLA AMOUR - WAVE 8937
With thle group we azo planning oporations (or Pinar, Matansas and Laa Villeo
within moxt gin woohs, Lendere of this WFOOKERZEX AMJAVA-4 and GAZARO

We are traintag
‘will be infiltrated within neat olx weeks zt THLE thres radio cperators for

this group plus two instructore weapons and wabotAce., This training wil! bogin

by tha firet of December,

30th uf Nevarabor Group

Tete covered in WAVE 8743 chould al! take place by 30th of November, Following
that the group cil! Sontions in orgenication and operations, Training of psreannel

ia the same for this group as previous! group ond apoliae ta all groups.

Unidad RavetectoxarjaY

Flan establishment of throe mangreve caching otathuaa. WAVE 6855, Stations

will be placed on cff-shore caves and receive supplies wheusver wit athsy permize.
Woather tursizg bad so nvust be aple te send beats when wosther good without
requirerest for reception cormmiites set up. First ene ta Camagusy by Ciret

of December, Tratoing oppiics to this group alse same 23 provicus. UR boat

ia Te jane has a ¢, 000 milo eapa bility and caa be meds epersttonal within ons month
‘With give a loag range dust wizh eharactsristice and speod we pood. Wo [ee] we shusid


bao end fin this buat. This group bie not scined tht CRG,

.

Raychetenstie de! Pueblo» KEP

Shaen peopls ape lagging eabind cthey groupe, “We don't have @ qualified

“shnamy type to deal etth, Wo are dealing throug? any

.'n taand to gat foer pecple of their's by 15th of Dacacrtor, We dis augvort

aay upevotion weve eur requivesusnis za recoptlon points ote. would pormilt.

STORAGE «We tarned tham down last 20k berause thay bad -

3 bea boat.

2° yreay preposed to put in a teas to establish contest with internal asscte.
Lsony without commualcations to lastée ani have ops rntors who valuse to go in
biud, This group hao not been sffoctiva eiuce AMDIP~3 oft, Thia operation

could go withia six weeks i we hed cave alficer tins,

AMMAZE Cremp
“AYE 0639 - Fetlewiog thia we are plaaaing on ta the Sania Clare regisn - copper

mias these oxtzeme woes ond of Island. Critical eeramunications.

‘Esteyondent Evelio DUQUE,
Trata five mea for groep 1hth November, Tralntag of operator will proceed

cuszoutly. Eterseted ta GW and revise plano te meet presant policy requirements.

Firet varee rosa of this group tote Sisrva Cristal oa oy abou 20 December,



£1 Cperations
Four operations were subsnlited by the AMOTS -- COCHISE, APACHE, |

add ese addithcaah without namo. Fivat thrce are all in progress

and will be kaplemasted wishia aiz wveva, Pourts plan ty boing atodied aad.

cai alog bo traplementad within six weeks, CHOCHISE ts oparationa where team
going in NY rth coast and thoy are to net vp tha diasetch and Poe pointe,
Figo, han detalla ice COCHISE, APACHE, AND GERANIMO, The pending
uptretion which ¢an go la vbt wecke te ¢ tena: of shout thros peopis and they

will go Ln 45 rallus gant of tha CHOCHIZE pofzt.

Prepas
BAUTA
< Sahotage plan eubaitted by the FORD cathe Béfys radio statics sxrit

up norts slveady, Seat one mas ta BRC ABICE-10 fcr collection of the nec ebarry

infoviiciian on the area. Flan ot i! tn effect,

Plan svbtuitted by the DRE + Aesault BOMIATO prisson.. Only ovanidarsd r+

witb
poasiste etatin general plan of overall Hboraticn but oil! under conside ration.
Nat tmplemested. u
.

Plan for auppovi af clandestine guarziiia forcas In volume withia the arcs

euhmitted Kerth, RAVE bad no indication from tp north re approval ar act.
get v
Pisa which we geot up for tho dofection of throe sayel wlts of Ssnticay

do Cubs with mata adjective af continued action slong resat bé fore retrep:ing

nevtral part oudmited 2 DSL Lave sot consilered it gud have not sent up af

Censhiered it fegeo ia yasecenmagoum gracral terra, Bet can etart over &

wie Mo moee thigeng hls,

aa gha weese. are to look


saayeteipeiona © attack,

AU of those pacple wo are planning gourral sc

vhatertal delfvery equlp-nent

glectrié power, communkeatiia, Uranapurtalion

wasvrevue and whenever posable, All ara betny veeized slong these nes.

Paxitine
Métor vaaae] ME VILARO next obi weeks thle voaaa! will bagi: with malt
commercial training. After af leaet one cover voyaze -ted ops rationally.

Can be Aeed with othas veesete to supply long range craft. Very slaw and we

ue cautonsly, Wo don't ksve vepenl capablilty ine roacalag south coast.

TEJANA could to this witala fuur weeks, Praseasicz purchaze of bass form

other sido. (Relorzing to Fectland).

VT Taam

Team of four people presently capable of maritime rscon avd operaticns,

Communteattons

eple will begors fastrectera end
4ovetaiora)
yas weeks, one in

Peesoaiiy have ala people fa trafeing tro pe

four operational operators, Will have thres Fadiod is t
.7ea months, FESCUE MEA

’
For @aX the furure we hove a 3 eandidsies all of them have had sone training
As clhare move out they wii] be moved in. Spotted 7 masic candidates pring ry
from these jiewes .” With cus prevent staff eapatis of training sis peonte at
eee time pbeerviag corcpartmentation. With additions! {avigeaous tietructore

1G al auy one Ume with cbeerviag compartrnentation.



Poe aes a tment aya a yee

eure cHertag us bats.

e they 4

vowi Fyre seay on bur wrerione

ruse,

14 5% of those indepssdent osar

our

2B ts pay fox

their beats cut in aay seethes and thon was

visra of loading boete. Kia lathe roaiza of pungibhitity thsy weald be ay;

< goed basta.

¢, bat uot wil capable Cress

Next tentative cpsration proposed by AMWOO-?} - Yive in ele isharmen wip

50laasdout, wears

hera (Misnz), €ebas eaacole, wtich o

rare heat

{nroctizzating this, We have win one operstica with this group, Is icata goad

agi wa are gotag te develop.

LEAGT, Re har contact with & LOO RAMIRS © te

Accthar Independent, AMCU
ecambray who dasirae suzpert, Wa bewe given ulrs guicslines for cperations.
Ctalme he hao 6-19 mee with trelaing and have Infiienivd gantast ofl peosts.

“e ace trying te bring Bim bask to groug fram which be came,

GSRCLA BRITO » Thilo gromp bas ivataed radlo couce:se bev’ art (crurty cen

matcailend eith fue ran; sesato.

du lea Villas, Guestion of cimss aot lack ef com



fsctitty, sunday ty prezesalo! UR. They are cood group ¢0 we're looking -

ase io kre how.

Zoth of Ray Crop > Have made requrest for support, Cli-ahook of 29ta of
No tumbler Groep, Aa a aplinter of thio group, being adeised to rejota their
parent gvoup. Exploring posedbility of supporting them i they cenoc? ro juin

parent, Thety plaas eome to ue through AMCLATTE Rel.

- Requsste are same ao from cthor groups, and this is splinter of

fo Bava told ther te rejota pavent and provide them gensral guidelines. 5

H who want :
latazendant group of caz:p trainara > 44 monet suppilss and transportation
tn Celemte. Ke communications ead willing to sacrifice thamesives in cw,
Clvon guideliass te forget about GW and get resistance plan, Their opokoomaa
is Fred Geotte,
Indgoosdeat Gregan of JUAN MESA -formoriy of MOC, Gansrally cobected about
four indepantent vaste wales he oporats aa evordinstor, Nenalag reeces operations
ane enna veppert. For iastancs, wastes support operetion to exfiltrate eight
calléren fgcm west coast. Seoeking oappost for an Orisate infilivation

team headed by PEPIN LOPEZ asd 13 mea, Tornod him dua, B&dbt Dos't
have capablatity to deliver. i


isdspendant gab group heaied by ALD VERA SERAFIN wanto trataing an.
ac rport of foroml cab grow. Claise he will Bis tergets i Havens area, Wa have

kot évea talzed to bim oa deste af poow CI backgromad. Spobooman ts Conis Aguers,

Same
Independent aab group of scan DUE waste he previsns group. Clates they eon

Ais target theoaghext Cubs, feo aseccintod with Goate Aguezo. WAVE! experiance .
with this man lo oush that so esa look ktadly oa thie, Pegooots Aa wamber'cf.

FDR mifary be made thiags aitficals. : 7
Indspendent grep 2 JULIAN DIAZ FERNANDEZ « Claims te hove 300 constitutional
army maa inside, Radio oct beve, Wiiliny to go besk. WAVE exploring this. WHI

try to tle him to another groan, bat if mouceouelal sed find bis elaims valid plan

to support bia,

ORLANDC SOUTO = proposes to harrase 8 CTC vally ta Goanqutte Stadia te
Miraccar.toeaight by diring 75 mm Righ-eres axpisaive sellsizse stadium fyem
cH shere, Told him a9 dice,

ln edditioa, the CRG plan at Hesdquartsts band eavrind by Bob Davis aad gia
UE eee cae We wenld Itka to hava ft back oon.

Cus other poraiica - AMBANTY«} - This man hao 300 pecols ta Phar del Blo.
He is being trained and abeutd go back in Dacecober

7

Bureseecemee nus!
