# 104-10073-10045

## Page 1

104-10073-10045

21-8

SECRET T ARE TE CRE(PORT AU PRINCE) PRINCE)17S6T TR

DIRECT OR

ZE AAR IN 321741

Lo UPI TICKER ITEM QUOTES GOVT SOURCE AS SAYING

THAT AMONG FIRST GOVT REQUESTS TO U.S. WILL BE RURAL

POLICE. ADVISOR.; THIS IS FIRST MENTION OF SUCH POSSIBLE

REQUEST, AND THERE NO CONFIRMAT ION VIA OFFÍCIAL CHANNEL S

UNFORTSAT EL Y UPI MAN HAS LEFT TOWN BUT HE WAS IN CLOSE

TOUCHWITMMAX DOMINIQUE AND LAITER WAS THUS

POSSIEL Y SOURCE OF REPORT.

24

2. IF REQUEST MATERIALIZES, IHIS MAY AFFORD MEANS

OF GETTING FOOT IN DOOR WITH SECURITY PEOPLE, WILL ADVISE

* FURTHER DETAILS AS THEY BECOME KNOWN.

S. NEW SUBJECT: RUINED A VID SON, PUÉLICIST

AND REGISTERED AGENT OF MAITIAN GOVI, WAS QUITE CONSPICUOUS

OVER WEEKEND MAIMTA LIAISON BETWEEN PRESS AND GOVI.

APPEARED TO BE ESPECIALLY CLOSE TO FRITZ AND MAX DOMINIQUE..

DIFFICULT TO JUDGE AT THIS POINT WHETHER HE AS SOL IDLY IN

WITH NEW GOVT AS MIS PERFORMANCE OVER WEEKEND WOULD SUGGEST

OR WHETHER, IN UNDERSTANDABLE CONFUSION OVER HAVING SO MANY

FOREIGN JOURNAL ISTS ON HAND, GOVT WAS SIMAL Y MAKING USE OF

1L!

1:110g.r

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

11

SECRET

GAND REPRODUCTIONE

PATURE

z/PV

---

## Page 2

4:00000'

DUE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

CLASSIFIED MESSADE

TOTAL COPIES

SECRET

CARLITY

When Filled In "no

Cot.

le 2132113741011

FORWARDED

FiLE, Vr

218

RIDI AN

PAGE 2 (PORT AU PRINCE) 17567 SECRET

EXPERIENCED PUEL IC RELATIONS MAN WHO ABLE MAKE RIGHT KIND

OF DECISIONS QUICKLY ON HANDLING FRESS. AMCARBON/S SAID

DAVIDSON PERSONALLY RESPONSIBLE FOR SETTING UP PRESS TOUR

OF PALACE AND DESSAL INES BARRACKS ON 26 APRIL, WHICH WENT

OVER VERY WELL•

4. AS HQS AWARE, DAVID SON IS OCCASIONAL ODENVY

INFORMANT AND HE THUS MAY BE WILLING COOPERATE WITH

WODISH IF NOT WOMACE•

S. NO FILE. INDEX DAVIDSON. GRI.

SECRET

AOUTINO AND ON INITIALD-BEEN BY

APERKUNG

CA37 REPRODUCTIONE

---

