id 01724004

CL uycuassieieo ; (Clspee omen CJ CONFIDENTIAL =) SECRET :

ose AOUTING AND RECORD SHEE)

OTE ET
|

PR Manet 1959

grates | comfiven Wienke sot sonnet ew ton stom
TINA | Soe now's hae econo DAS tee aed

cy

Te. 610 "erss" secret =] CONFIDENTIAL. CJ we et Cy _ UNCLASSIFIED

wi



SECRET
(00 be Pet boy

tsi

'» PR/EAD, 30D 10, Fi, FP 2

“ct/ors, Ci/IC, FI/D, PI/BAM 5, Pi/PED, PP-TYD 2,

PFD CS0s-3/639, 512"

Sothene 10 Coats bacornaaT

sero oor CONTROL © SACKDHOUND USE ONL

Fae bats bop

Sloe Cage Sect

Up


«TAL INTEL E AL SNCY
TELETYPED INFORMATION REFOA,

TAs eaters! cents any inee ade tay the Memes Iweeee of de Ua iod Sate wnbie Whe mening af fie Lepwneee Lowe hs | ‘ {
BC SC Sere "and THE ae Unnem lemon wt tereiates of AAG fe arr menaet U oF eneucumed pews by pecacent be ben.

[Sanaa aa SE eget Tevereme

CORT INGED CONTROL
[ PTOCS 08-3/835,512

D CS8 GILT

county Kee ecoveee,
Cyba/Deminican Reputlie Cera, saben

Boeuder (3 March 1959)
View of Pronirent Cuban Leaders
on Fydel CASTRO'e Attitude and

- Bocent acting : mane

SATe OF impo Tiainces
WidPybruary = 3 March 1959.” TOCS28..3/639, 511
aie O° Content renvarnem TOCSHB-3/639,510
- TDCSDB-3/639, 333 :
a favaiuanen paris : - :
Yorem with good gentacts in the Caribbean area (C), ~ Bae
1. Bb TERREZ Menoye, fox comander-ta-chief of the ‘seguedo Tyeate
acional de1 Bscambray (SFU - Secend Nati mal Freat ef the go. J a te

fo fron Habana to New York en a cosmercial mission involving teurisa ta the near

> nT Semmnniaemaneaeeenon
fatare. GUTIRRRICTE Pisturbed ith Fidel CASTRO Bus, Caden Prine Minister, -

auce he is acting ab though he thinks that he is anether liberater like Sina

/poume, aod decmuse he. taldag al] ef the heirs of the revelation, rather than |||

" ghariag thea with aay af the other revolaticnry leadere, the comercial alosten

has deen given to OUIERREZ as 2 sort of bribe. (Meadquartors Ouest, Per furtter
_ information en QUTIKENEX one C8-3/378,712, TOCS-3/383, 15h, iCs-3/382, 50 and reperta
referenced by then.) e1t: CORA

2 Carles Manse! UL. Ho6a, who Lal Public Affaire Agviser to Ppecteent

eee UERUTIA Llev.ard director af Revolucion, afficial‘ergea ef the % of duly
eee ————" Ee eee

i
|

j
4
!



i

ie

pot TOCs
a Brcrennatatien Ajan Cysyton Powell wants vo invite Chatty ie whett we i
| United Sacer, PRAIQUE nas cald that tad weuld be apenas Re CASTE probably ©
tane wif that inxerss didjand that such

ba ober oe

Mould get audiences tn the United States,
ae ta
world tum out to be cemter-productive te the interests of tbe 2 United States.”

“ Lasraeset i £8 sone ‘
(Field Commeny, Soiree also mentioned that it was his lapression that m Larasicn

of Uaith dy onposition forees would not take place in the inmediate future.)

(Headquarters Cyraants, ‘There have been nunerous reparta that CASTRO
Haitian, Nicaraguan, and Desirdcun coporttion Bene :
saehicke ve paesa> Bie eens ony Ge NTT

one

Fyeld Dystributions
pete OL ee taaereee oe tate pine

Ia weaspes’ Fepetapee 2108 TFT

ost pee gtyee ypstaye

Syaeee paetyas ye ete we

Giure, Og nye B Vee Way deere or |

Seobdes AE gre paterate y Shee

adi ot init de ai nates ied seni

4 = even por

“+ BACKGROND ae

