# 104-10234-10126

## Page 1

104-10234-10126

TRANSMITTA

TDCS INFORMATION REPORT

feb

149

LASSIFICATION

SECRET

ORIG.

UNIT

HOUTING

TI7C/KX7RE

EXT.

DATE

5547

24 March

CONFIRMATION COPIES

1966

Na 24- 23

-8 988

WHC

INFORAATION CORKS

TDCS DB-315/00929-66

DeL, D/DU1, Ex/OIR, DDP, ADDP, OS/RF

CS/DO, CI/OPS,

WE 4,

WH 9, FE 10

CI/IC, FI, FI/D, FI/INT 6, IW, CA. 2, CA/PEG, DO 2, DO/H 4,

DATE DISTRIBUTED

24 March 1966

PRECEDENCE

WHC/RE

WHC/RR

WHC/FI

Q WHC/SI

1/WHC/WAVE

WHC/CA

DISSEMINATION

IWE/5/R

IWE/MADR| 1

KHC/CI

1

ROUTIN?

BASED ON (FLD. RPT, P801.)

14- 3028

NP (AMTHEO-2)

Liaison M

WHC/MO

EVALUATION

1 WH/PACY

REQUESTED

STATE

FE/RE

JFE/CHI

ARMY

2

8

NAVY

AIR

HANDLING INSTRUCTIONS

RECOMMEND FOR EXO.

efem

Gratt

CONTROLLED DISSEM

C S INTERNAL USE ONLY

AhILASH-1

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

CLASSIFICATION

TCOORDINATING OFFICER(S)

RELEASING SSEIFER

5: 931 je

82 - đ2

Hieo tel

SECRET

(NHTEN FILLED IN)

OROUITE PaIHIOUs EMTIOeas

COPY NO.

+99-83-49-491

---

## Page 2

14-00000

_SECRET

CONTROLLED DISSEM

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

• ROUTINE

Intelligence Information Cable

COUNTRY

CUBA

DATE OF 8 MARCH 1966

INFO.

TDCS DB-315/00929-66

DISTR. 24 JARCH 1966

- SUBJECT

RUMORS OF CONFLICT BETWEEN FIDEL AND RAUL

CASTRO AND ARRESTS OF ARMY OFFICERS

PAEACO. UXITED STATES (23 MARCH 1966)

REF

IN

SOURCE

AND

FIELD REPORT NO.

APPRAISAL, A CUBAN ENGINEER, SPECIALIZING IN AGRONOMY, WHO IS NOW RETIRED BUT

PREVIOUSLY WAS IN THE SUGAR-REFINING BUSINESS.

SOURCE RELIABLY

CONVEYS INFORMATION REPORTED TO HIM.

WITH THE EXCEPTION OF THE

ARREST MENTIONED IN PARAGRAPH 2, WHICH WAS WITNESSED BY A FRIEND,

SOURCE DID NOT IDENTIFY HIS INFORMANTS.

× rile 70s

1. RUNORS OF INTENSIFIED CONFLICT BETWEEN PREMIER FIDEL CASTRO

RUZ AND HIS BROTHER RAUL, WHO IS MINISTER OF THE REVOLUTIONARY ARMED

FORCES (FAR), HAVE CIRCULATED INCREASINGLY SINCE THE ARREST OF

ROLANDO CUBELA SECADES. IT IS SAID THAT SINCE THE CUBAN-CHINESE CON-

FLICT DIFFERENCES BETWEEN THE TWO HAVE REACHED SUCH A POINT THAT

DIRECT CONTROL OF THE FAR BY FIDEL IS CONSIDERED CERTAIN. RAUL, IS

SAID TO HAVE REQUESTED WINESTER OF THE INTERIOR RAMIRO VALDES

MENENDEZ TO RESIGN BUT THE LATTER REPLIED THAT ONLY FIDEL COULD RE-

MOVE HIM. :

до ва то зарискі

2. IN DAYLIGHT HOURS IN THE MARIANAO SECTION OF HAVANA ON 3

States within the meaning

10, UAC Dece 990 aad 794. the tanamenon or ruralasion el whict

say manner to an unaushorized person in prohibited by law.

0H04P1

SECRET

CONTROLLED DISSEN

paragonsane de

STATE/INI

ĐIA

ARMY/ACSI MAY

SECDEF

NIA MIC MADX USLA OCI ONE OCR ORE

8X DCS

FBI

CIA/NMCC REPCINCLANT

5LO

restrain?

---

## Page 3

14-00000

CONTROLLED DISSEN

• SECRET

SO t86 tos;

TN

TDCS DB-

315/00929-66

PAGE. 2

TO OVERTAKE ANOTHER AUTUXOBILE CARRYING FIVE FAR OFFICERS, THE

LATTER WERE DISARVED BY NEMBERS OF THE G-2 AND WERE THEN CARRIED OF?

UNDER ARREST IN TWO CARS.

3. BY 8 XARCE NOST OF TEE PRISONERS WHO WERE IN THE G-2 PRISON

:

AT VILLA "MARISTA" WERE TRANSFERRED TO LA CABAÑA. (HEADQUARTERS

CONTENT: ACCORDING TO T9/O0-K-323/03689-66, A CUBAN REFUGEE WHO

ARRIVED IN THE UNITED STATES BY AIR ON 23 FEBRUARY REPORTED THAT ON

6 FEBRUARY ABOUT 300 CUBAN ARMY CE FICERS WERE ARRESTED IN SANTA CLARA

AND CAYAGUEY. THEY ALLECELY WERE A PART OF A PEIPING BACKED CON-

‚SPIRACY TO GAIN CONTROL, OF THE ARJY AND TO FORCE CASTRO TO RESIGN.

THE REFUGEE SAID THESE PRISONERS WERE BEING HELD BY THE DEPARTMENT

OF STATE SECURITY AT LA CABAÑA AND VILLA MARITIMA IN HAVANA. FIDEL

REPORTEDLY PLANTED TO MAKE AN EXAXPLE OF THE GROUP AND ALLEGEDLY

WOULD SOON EXECUTE A MATORITY OF THEM. NO INFORMATION CONCERNING

THE ARRESTS HAD BEEN YADE PUBLIC, AND NO RUMORS WERE CIRCULATING IN

:.".

HAVANA ABOUT TRE MATTER.)

4. HEADQUARIERS COYMENT: THERE IS NO CONFIRMATION FROM CON

TROLLED SOURCES OF ANY RECENT DISAGREEMENTS INVOLVING THE CASTRO

BROTHERS AND RAMIRO VALDES. ALTHOUGH SOURCE DID NOT SUGGEST ANY REA

SOYS FOR TRE REFORTED DISAGREESENTS, RAUL, CASTRO AND CUBELA RAVE IN

prit

THE PAST BEEN REGARDED AS VIOLENT ENENIES. IF THERE IS, A DISAGREE

Extenter

MENT BETWEEN THE CASTRO BROTHERS IT SAY BE OVER THE HARSHNESS OF THE

PUNISHVENT TO BE METED OUT TO CUEELA AND HIS GROUP.

VALDES, AS

FIDEL CASTRO'S MAN,

YAY HAVE AROUSED RAUL'S ENMITY.

5.

FIELD DISSEY: CINCLANT, CINCSO.

(END OF MESSAGE)

SECRET.

CONTROLLED DISSEM

---

