# 104-10012-10081

## Page 1

104-10012-10081

DISPATCH

• Chlef of Station, Melbourne

GLASSIFKATION

SECRET

TO

INFO.

FROM

Chlof, Far Fast Division

SUBJECT

SQUIB/Request For Release of Varren Commission Document

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

PROCESLING ACTION

MARKED FOR INDEXING

NO INDEKING REQUIRED

ONLY QUAUFIED DESK

CAN JUDGE INDEXING

MICROFILA!

1.

WOrImI has been requested by an Australian newspaper

editor

(Attachnent A) to release the Warren Connunion Docuent

971 (CD 971 1s Attachment B) which relates to anonynous telephone

calls to the Canberra Embassy at the time of the assasmination of

President Kennedy. His request was turned down. As you probably

know, there has been mounting publle pressure to release classified

documents of the Warren Coniasion While no decision has been

to do so 10 the near future by National Archives, which has

officiml custody of the documents, or by mome higher authority.

* Melbourne Station 1s requested to discuss Paragraph.

One above with SQUIB/1 afterhis return to Australla.

service 1s mentioned in Paragraph 4 Of CD 971 and release of the

docent is certain to provoke questions In Australia Since

CD 971 Is a V. S. Government document we need not (and should not)

request SQUIB concurrence for release of the document.

be informed, however, that release of Ch oTh to the publle domin

Is presently under consideration; that the Unlted States Havy

has no objections; and that we are giving hin advance notice an

& matter of courtesy. Any views volunteered by SQUIB/1 regarding

this release should be roported promptly to Headguarters.

Charles A. RAMBO

Attachments:

A.

lotter,

u/s/c

B.

u/s/c

Distribution:

2 - CO8, Melbourne /atte u/s/c

CROSS REFERENCE TO

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

FAMW 3636.

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

201.289248

DATE

• 1298

19- August 1968

MOS FILE NUMBER

5-2-5/2

---

