# 104-10171-10063

## Page 1

104-10171-10063

ditira

•itil repriorid throgeh

indet.

1156

l+t 434)

INUNDUI NOi: Chies, casact DiViOlOn, 00

to. Salite; Stetyon

16 HAY T9S2

Le:er Mo Interrarional Rescue Comiliter, Ince

(Aitached)

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

1.

An 107u95i hus bori aio chrough cor reccurces mi 1:

effc...

Il tos tees copomod cint epon iis arriin! i "*

ne, uno iospitalfac! Iur

¿unterari, he alco :opotedli nac o ilciory

of untilairg i1s fertij ead etier rescurces for influence

•ari do a segris io dals a iniccilie.

"he aunieco, hovercra

mon imporally setive in tre 1laal area to a pere cá u

Epilier politica? rang.

terree,

1: aprcare tont dio suto

weet ray

¿luences ci las reintires an! trierili.

aaa gersema orsero der upecial trenteent,

reci:sio

In inct de philimit sion,

un. nOv, vus to assist

Eic Sucana la L'eda parai i!i citcrus and not furios.

Interes's.

3-

ie cottele? boi, Covertint efforty hove boun idde

sie tomer Iritilaiolo son cnager in tie

imalun secluito, citier porcorally or collettively.

i=--

and tror simathiser

io the danna rofurco proticis,

personi"" aprcacred a lindici cesruinire proiTan for 11i0i

insed

5005 25911--

ilse snpired io bin fran the C-b=:

cirileso do caj, la. poccil'e rez mis

n0: valdea.

The aforonentional arcitan uns salest, bich

3/.0

?::

SET

wH:

634

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECTE!

DPD-3065-62

Pago TVO

Dea: 1a lie arialien tield.

9n1 Dale Jounty at that tine and was not Intended as e cou-

+l=:1+87597970

it o

It appears that Me. Tacall, havirs Gotten Win of

15. Foley's progray, (actually finnacal 8: chlo. 0101-107) do-

cised to tee advantario of 1i.

lio es idence ut nto put:icipaiion

is recria, tiorofore he even licied ollbibalit; for 1i.

nur as personal proaises by: C.I.A. contact Into,

WE. 200.2d

to sell erident of a aild form of pressure due to lis nicteri

"remoussess" Tierefore, "it Is alfrested that liaraution

amedicad 15 the first three parnerapis be forvaried to jour

representatite li lew tors fos fucher intonation to 2is

coresponded.

Tic cover of it. Favley's terevolent proren

Is considen secure ant has ultistood scriting in ine "inal

area, an althraigh se don't neecostlij liie the tectine ut

corer, 1: 1s felt that 1t 1s suild chougi to overtly c'ard

1. Fecal's 1zoulry 1f he should fech 1i necentary.

Trinald

's sector te tach, in. Pawley vould only retor she cioject

to rise Operations difleer (DID's principal agine) vio 1n

=ca mile leer the andividuas viti the case di drco, no:

Fiction. Tus Division Mas bed i contact vica tha 1rllvidual.

03

Colonel

USAT

seeing Chick, DES

stated.

SECHET

WH-

---

