# 104-10308-10148

## Page 1

104-10308-10148

OUTGOING MESSAGE

21 9

SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY

: COF

ACP

TOG:

TRE

MRO

PAGE:

0MF 0

0

: 0

0

RETURN DO CIA

Background Use Caly

Do Not Reproduess.ce

SECRET

SSAGE

CATOR

STAFF

CONF

DATE-TIME GROUP

211706Z

DIRECTOR

INFO FILE IP)AN, EURE, OPSLINI

LSNiD cilora

CINDEX

602011:

DISSEM BYG

D

RETURN TO

PER

15.11

5 IP PRES

TOS PRIORIT

AKULE REAM JAGUAR) O

REF"

S312L TIN 3662431 4

¿ROS TRACES ALDO PEDRO MAR GOLLES DUENAS 1201-

(3151613 INDICATE HE ALSO USED NAMES ALDO MARGOLLES Y DUNAS AND ALDO

FRI

MARTINEZ MORALES. REPORT DATED 1961 FROM COERGO SAYS HE SON OF

CHIEF OF CUBAN NATIONAL REPOLICE NRI WHO WAS ATTEMPTING, ENTER U.SO

IN ORDER MEET WITH CASTRO AGENTS AND ASSASSINATE PRESIDENT KENNEDYS

FA

LATER INFO POSSIBLY ALSO BASED ISENGO REPORTING INDICATE SUBJECT

IS HIMSELE CHIEF OF PNR AND MAYOR OF CIENFUEGOS. SUBJECT TRAVELED

FREELY THROUGHOUT LATIN AMERICA SPREADING CASTRO DOCTRINE REPORT

SAID HE ALWAYS IN CONTACT WITH COMMUNIST PARTY HIGH COMMAND Y

FRT

12. MASARO ALSO REPORTED IN MARCH 64 THAT SUBJECT UNDER

PROTECTION OF CUBAN PRESIDENT DORTICOSO MARGOLLES WAS MEMBER 26

JULY MOVEMENT IS RELATED TO EMILIOAR A GONES NAVARRO

(PRESENT CUBAN AMBASSADOR TO ARGENTINA AND IS OLD-GUARD MBR

CUBAN COMMUNIST PARTY EPCCH IN 1964, HE WAS WORKING WITH INVESTI-

GATIVE CORPS OF CUBAN G-2, ESPECIALLY IN LAS VILLAS PROVINCES UNABO

DATE

ORIG:

UNIT::

EXT:

CLASSIFICATION

FI

CI

CA

RR

COOROIMATING OFFICERSO DEST

RELÉASING OFFICER

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUESTRONO IS PROHIBITED

1P64214

E:2::

IMPDETE

CL 8Y 061393

SECRET

31170

---

## Page 2

13-00000

OUTGOING MESSAGE

•SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY

cos

ACP

roc

TRE

MRO

DCI

OMF

CLASS

SECRET

Masonab

RGINDICATOR

STAFF

0

0

0

PAGE

op::

PAGES

2

DATE-TIME GHOUS

CITE

DIRECTOR

0

CONF:

INFO: A FILE

INDEX

NO INDEX

RETURA TO

. DISSEM BY:

601011

PER

CHERE HE FEARED AS UNSCRUPULOUS INDIVIDUAL, CAPABLE OF ANY CRIME

WHICH WOULD SERVE CASTERO REGIME• HE ACCUSED OF HAVING KILLED

MANY INNOCENT FARMERS IN LAS VILLAS AREA. SUBJECT ENTERED U-S•

ILLEGALLY NOV SO AND RESIDED MIAMI UNTIL JAN 59, WHEN HE LEFT U.S•

VOLUNTARILY Y

JASON 27/SEPT 631 SUBJ APPOINTED VICE MINISTER OF MINISTRY

OF INTERIOR MINIENT} DURING AUG 6S REORGANIZATION HE WAS REPLACED

IN THIS JOB. IN JAN E66 HE RETURNED FROM TRIP USSR AND AFRICA.

LATER INFO FROM 2766 INDICATES HE WAS DEMOTED FROM DOMAJOR TO

CAPTAIN- REASONS UNKNOWN. IN 19667 SUBJECT WAS CHIEF OF IMMIGRATION

OF MININTOW

FBI

4. ALTHOUGH, INFO PARAS 1 AND 2 ABOVE FROM ETERCO, IT HAS ALL

BEEN CONFIRMED FROM VARIETY REFUGEE AND DEFECTOR SOURCES AT LATER

DATES. THEREFORE, (STATION, MAY PASS IT AND PARAS 3-4 TO JAGUAR). Y

50 FILE: 201-315161 E2 IMPET • A

UH COMMENTE REF REQUESTED TRACES MAR GOLLIES FOR (AGUAR)

DATE EL SEPTEMBER 1924

ORIG:

UNIT

EXT:

122

OPS/LSA ARt

BURACE

03

0R

AS ENRAGE

REPRODU ONEY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS A BITED

#CL BY:

SECRET

IMPDET

051393

---

