i i 00

ik

ae ad
“SECRET |

TO t Chief, Wi/Diviston.'~ : & may 1362
ATTH 5 Chief, Ws
FROM 1: Interrogation Rescarch Divieton

suagecr: Evelto Ip¢ 49161,
DECTTFING pata |

m : }
-; Subject of this repert fs Evelic Duque MIYAR, bora in Decenber,
1926 fn Trinidad, Cube. Subject was technically interrogated on {
10 April 1962 at a covert site in south Miami, Florida. The inter:
Wogation was conducted in Spanish through Mr. Frederick Render oa) ge
who acted as interpreter and included such topics as Communism, —
Pexeonal History, vulnerability to blacknail, and acsoctation with ;
/fatelligence organizations. At the Fequest of the Case Officer, |
podect was also asked specific questions about using "var Ramee"

Tort charts do aot indicate eay deception to questions pertain:

fing to the above copies,
“Og 82 Becember 1961 Subject was initially polygrapbed at which
Gime the polygraph Examiner stated that Subject was conceal: ine
formation ia toe following areas: «. So ee eee a
Le, Past attenpte to blacksatl subject,

Porsonal Histery Statexent:

Asooctation with politioal cegaaicat
Glucady known to us, Eh ies

Artest by polis efftetais

: AS @ consequence ef the techafcal findings, the po} ;
Beeniney voccumended that Subject not be polygcaphed coele aril

> SECRET

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use 0;
“Do Not Reproduce



oo

~ SfeRE}

such time as he had been debriefed in detail regarding all activities
associated with the above topics. Thecefore, prior to Subject's
recent polygraph test, he was thoroughly debrisfed by[ Frederick oe
Bender @ member of the CI/Steff at the WAVE station. It is of
interest’to note fir. Hendo¥ion'sl impressions of Subject which exe
Plained rather cléarly the makd up. of the man and why he had so b
wach difficulty during his first polygraph test. (fr. Hendersca
clared tLat Subject's verbal expression is poor and sleo that has
mn Gxtromely difficult time witing. Subject lacks the ability to
concentrate for any length of time on one subject and aleo hag trouble

ph
Steunent curing the first test?" |i. Render stated that the Subjec!
had no idea that the instrument msasured physiological changes to
questions which Subject associated with his background.

Buring the debriefing, Subject denied that there had been any !
past attempts to blackmail him, that he lied about his personal history
Statements, that he was formerly sympathetic to Communism, or that he
hed ascociated with political Gtganizations other than those already |
knew to us. However, on the topic of arrests, Subject declared that

de wae arrested twice under the Batista Regime and detained once under

the Castro Regine, Subject declered that his first arrest occurred
foward the end of 1952, Subject steted that at that tims he vas site|
Ging im a barber shop in Hevana vhen @ plain-olothes man heard him |
Giscussing the regine ia uaccmplisentary terms. Subject declared
thee ested, taken to the second police station in Havans, |
end kept overnight, questioned tn the morning and released. Subject |
etated that his second arrest waa on the llth of Ame 1956 when he
weat to Havens from the mountains of Escambray with a message. Having
gettes off at the Onatbus Station, it turned out thet all persons
@zriving et the station were picked up, arrested and interrogated. ©
Be stated that he was able to explain his way out of the arrest and )
was identified and therefore was releasad. Subject related that he
was deteined by Castro's militia at te tims he we trying to escape
Geen Cubs, however, it turned out that the militia wee looking for -
@nether Cuban and consequently, Subject was released, During poly«
Graph testing, Subject was asked the following specific questions:

Us Bentdes the Receubray front, axe you a meaber of any other
political ceganization? Anever: te, s “ 5 ins

eon
SECRET

beac antes wiblic, ai sanmeeapunal cena

|



— SEuREI
2. tava you sea Seen e evaber of the Cuban Commmtst Party?
Answert Eat i

3. Do you have @ secret mecns of commmication with any Com
wunict Intelligence Service? Answer: No.

4. Axe you presently receiving eny money from any Comamist
Tatelligence Organization? Answer: Ho.

Have you been assigned a socret cods name by eny Castro H
tatelligence nce Seevioet Answer: Ho. H

6. Have you intentionally falsified any of the Personal History.
Statements that you have given us? Answers Noe

Yo ‘Axe you now being bleckuailed? Answer: Yo.

@. Wore you exrested more’ than twice by the Batiste Regima?
Anewertt Wo.

% vue yoo dotatzad pace then once by the Cuban Rapinat
dagwer: Hee

ww, DLA you tell us the truth about your excape fren O:bat
Aosat: Yes.

“Me Hove you over used the wor nsne ianolito? . Answor! Ho.
22, Reve you evor used the war nae Prenk? Answers Tite
Have you ever used tho war nave Flavio? Ansver: He.

