# 104-10216-10398

## Page 1

104-10216-10398]

15 February 1965

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT:

Meeting with AYLASH-1 In Paris,

31 January to 3 February 1965

• ANLASH-1 returned from Rome to Parts on 31 Jan 196.

no was set for a very orief meeting the same night by ONTRIC

In order to arrange a meeting for the following day.

The

following subjects were discussed at the two meetings on 1 and

2 February 1965:

The primary reason for again meeting AVLASH•I

before his planned return to Cuba was to brief him on the

security implications Involved in the infiltration and

possible capture of Modesto Orlando Orozco Basulto AKA

Bebo Orozco, who Infiltrated Into Cuba on 21 Dee 1964,

orozco, according to his vle, went to Cuba to rescue.

and three othors who were hiding in the

home of a woman named [

→ who l1ved at [

Havana.

Orosco's capture, 11 he has been captured, presents an

Indirect threat to the security of AMLASE] and a more

direct threat to the security of ANTRUNK-10 since Orozco

In Jan 1964 exfiltrated through the rat line established

by AMICB-14 (Miguelito). Upon his return to Cuba,

AMLASH-1 will check the above with AMTRUNK-10; and, 1f

Orosco is under the control of the security service, will

decide and communicate with Miant whether AHLASH-l and

ANTRUNK-10 believe it necessary to exfiltrate AMTRUNK-10.

AMLASIFI was briefed to send a letter to UNSNArUg to

Indicate whether Orozco has been arrested or whether he is

still in hiding.

If the letter to UNSNAFU mentions a

good and pleasant return trip, this will mean that Orozco

is not under the control of the security service.

If the

lotter talke abouth long, tiring trip, this will' indicate

that Orozco has been arrested.

AMLASH-1 was also requested

to send a report on the above and any complications which

have developed or may develop from Orozco's Infiltration.

D. AMLASHl suggested that his nom do guerre "Charles,"

which we have been using for the past three years, be

changed to "Gerardo."

SECRET

---

## Page 2

€.

AMLASH-1 was given a resupply of S/" developer

pills and carbon. He planned to take the S/M material

back with him to Havana.

AMLASH-I again reviered with

UNSNAYU and reminded UNSNAFU9 to turn over to his Paria

case officer all letters regardless of how received from

AHLASH-1 to either UNSVATU-9 or lotters that aay be addressody

to his parents-in-law.

out in letters addressed to

ed AMLASH-I also doreed to send S/"

business partner) in Geneva or Rome.

ANWHIPI was briefed -

to Inforn Ventura that any letters he received from

AMLASI-1 should be immediately air mafled to AWHIP!

Since AHLASH-l will probably find it

necessary some time not to sign the letters to l

1a his true name, ANWHIP-l was also briefed to Inform

to forward to New York any letter received from

Cuba addressed to him and signed by a person unknown to

him.

S/# letters to AMLASHI should continue to be

addressed to r

In an

energency a letter can also

Do sent to AlLASH l's mother.

d.

AVLASH I was again debriefed on the cache that had

been put down for him in Matanzas.

He repeated what be

had previously reportod and attempted to answer most of

the questions in the WAVE cable.

A cable on this subject

was sent fron Paris to Headquarters, Info WAVE, on 2 Feb.

AMLASF-I was requested to send a message either through

his channel or through AHTRUNK-10°s S/W channel reporting

how much of the radio equipment and other material had

been recovered from the cache.

AMLASH-1 was asked if he knew of any individual in

Cuba whom he could recrult and who could be inserted into

the Cuban Intelligence Service with the idea

01 attempting

to get the DGI to assign this man to Caracas, Venezuela.

AMLASH-I could tbink of oply one possibility, an individual

known as

AMLASH-1 has full confidence

_has previously been approached on

several occasions by Pinero to work for him.

Upon his

return to Cuba AMIASH-1 will check to find out 11 L

can still get himself recruited by Pinero and then be

sont on a mission abroad, hopefully to Caracas.

who also knows

will provide the background in or

mation upon his

return to New York.

on 1o

AlLASH-l reported on the upcoming FEU elections

February 1965.

ANLASE-] stated that Crombet, the

president of the Connunist Youth, will become the new

SECRET

Aura

---

## Page 3

14-00000

= 3a

prosident and that bis man, Laparo Bora, would be one of

the vice-presidents.

(A cable on this subject was sent

to Headquarters from Paris.)

B.

ALASH-I wag requested to check with Fizzolo

regarding the precautions being taken to prevent sabotage

of the lochotives being shipped from France to Cuba;

specifically, how carefully do they check the placement

of the seals, are they special seals or regular lond

BeRls, are there going to be any additional checks once

tho locomotives reach Cuba, will they drain the oil and

lubricants from the factory to the port, and do they run

the locomotives under their own power or are they towed.

AMLASHl agreed to attempt to develop answers to the above

requirements and pass the information to his contact in

the Paris Station.

AllLASF-1 also agreed to attempt to find

out and pass to the Paris Station through UNSNAFUg the

nanes of the Cuban techs training at la Rochelle.

h.

In a general discussion regarding the persons with

ThoR AHLASE-] had been in contact either personally or

through letters, AMLASH1 mentioned Alfredo Portola.

AMLASH-1 stated

he had received a letter from Portela and

had in turn written to Portola.

He considera Portela a

Iriend which was the only reason for writing to bin.

1.

AlLASd-1 was debriefed on Cuban Intelligence

Bergice personnel.

A cable on this subject was sent from

Paris to Headquarters.

A cable was sent fron Paris to Headquarters

suggesting WAVE send a S/" letter to AMTRUNK-10 stating:

"Esto tranquilo. Carlos regresa pronto."

ANLASH-1 was asked for information on the fol

lowing persons:

(1) Samuel Gonzalez Rodriguez-Planes. AMLAS-1

reports he is a nember of the Ameljetras group and

1s a good and brave man.

(2) Antonio Lusson y Batlle, Chief of Operations

of the General Staff of the Occidental Army.

AMTASH-1 reports Lasson ie an Independent and rare

type individual who keeps to himself and doesn't

Involve himself in political matters. AMLASHl has

heard nothing bad about lasson.

SECRET

foa

---

## Page 4

..=

(3) Cadte. Raul Diaz Arguelles, Chlot of

Artillery of the Oceidental Army.

(1) Elpidio Baes Bigo. According to AlASH-1,

Baer 1s a trusted Fidelman.

Assigned to

Cuban Is.

Enrique Oltuski Osacki. Oltuski le a close

Iriend of Faustino Perez and his stock uith the regine

risos or falls as does that of Faustino..

(7) Sergio Tollon. Code clerk in the Embassy In

Paris.

Tollon is staying in Paris at the request of

Ambassador Carrillo.

Gastro enteritis, water pollution and unsanitary

conditions.

AMLASH-I states there are no real problems,

although the scarcity and lack of a balanced diet do

cause some problems.

The purification of water has been

• probler which probably has been the cause of some of the

sickness in the country.

AMLASHI did not believe that Aragones had Invited

him to fly back to Havana with him in order to got him

back because of any serious security matter.

AMLASH- 1

did state that Aragones vas concerned that AMLASH-1 may not

return to Cuba.

Since Aragones cleared AMLASH-1 for his

trip abroad, he 1a in a way responsible that AMLASH-I does

not defect

and returns

to Cuba.

AMLASH-1 feels Aragones

does not want any problems with Fidel In case AHLASHI

decides to stay out.

AMLASt-1 was unable to provide any information on

December since he had been out of the country since early

November.

ALASH-I was asked to check on the problems

between the opposing Iactions in the Cuban leadership and

explained the issues, the background and personalities

Involved.

O. Soviet advice or Influence in politieal and economie

matters creates resentment among the middle and hirber level

Cuban o1ftclals.

Basically, the Soviets are not respected.

SECRET

€ $fr7

---

## Page 5

-5

p.

Rank of Cuban officials under Fidel In terms of

thoir influence in making national polley.

Reul is still

the heir apparent to Ildel.

Next to Raul

1s Che Guevara.

After that, no other official,

according to AHLASH-I, has

any great influence in the making of Cuban national policy.

President Dorticos'

relationchip with Fidel 18 good since

he is a hard and serious worker, has good administrative

mbility and la able to work within the general outline laid

down by Fidel.

Raul Castro has some political Influence

and control in Oriente where he has placed his men. 1.

positions of influence, but only Fidel personally bag any

polltical influence in the rest of Cuba. Even within the

nilltary Fidel selects and appoints high army officer.

Che Guevara 1e still strong in the economic field and

has not sulfered a decline in his influence and authority

because of his ourlier policy of industrialization.

Guevara restricts binself to the econoute field and plays

a very saall role in the political field.

He 1s serious

and very hard worker, one of the few. according to AMLASH-l,

who has worked seven days a week without leave since the

revolution.

Emilio Aragones holds an important positlon

an the organizational secretary of the PURS.

He 18 the

official who was always at the office of the Natonal

Directorate of the Party and has contact with all the

offloials in the regime.

He plays an important coordinating

role.

Faure Chomon has been accused of organizing former

19th of March Rovolutionary Directorate people, but.

according to AlLASH-l, this probably based on the fact that

chomon always gives jobs in the ministry he beade to Da

people.

Because of this Chomon today controls to a large

dogree the Ministry of Transportation. Of all the aintstries,

the DR's stronghold is in the Ministry of Transportatlor.

Other DR people who continue to hold important positlons

in the regine are Alberto Hora, Ambassador Carrillo and

JoBe Naranjo.

-..!

AMASH] and ANWHIP I vere unable to develop any

specifies, but fron their conversationg with Ambassador

Carrillo got the impression that Carrillo would prefer and

volcome a transfer fron the Embassy in Parte to tbe

Embassy. In Hadrid.

According to Enilio Aragones, Anibal Escalante

is being considered for a Job outsidé Cuba.

The job will

probably be in the commerelal/econonie field, but a

decision had not been made as of November 1964 as to

location.

SECRET

man trim- hit in

---

## Page 6

80.0000

•. AKASH-I again reported that he feels Orlando

Blanco, Consul of the Cuban Embassy in Bern, 18

approachable since he is unhappy with the Cuban regime.

AMLASI-I also feels that Enrique Rodriguez Loeches,

Cuban Ambassador In Pabat, is approachable 1f approached

and developed by the right person.

Marina Garcia Gonzalez

assigned to the commercial section of the Cuban Embassy

In Rabat, MLASH-1 foola 1a also approachable and feele

money can be uned as an inducement.

Ambassador Carrillo,

AHLA8F-I feels, 1f the proper person developed him, could

probably be compromised with Fidel.

He is a character

and could easily be entangled according to AHLASH-1 in

• compronising situation.

Attend of Lucy Schevarria.

Ambassador Carrillo Is a close

•. Other requirements on Cuba.

many he was unable to pro

Restor D. Sanches

WH/ SA/AMWORLD

de:

File:

AMLASH-1 201

Internal Op

SECRET

• ..

---

