104-10051-10200]

on .
( ne Oy v a c
ao ¢ . 1 p Ce.
“ . "SECRET \ le C
s MEN FILLED GL Ag 3
; 7 ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET _ (
C
FROM RIA ; ‘DOCUMENT NUMBER OCOA=03745 ‘
ay Sccunenrere
# ROOM DATE. OFFICER'S Co
TO NO. - [raceiveo [ronwanoao| INITIALS
7 WOTE Ha copy oe
¥ ze
vere pil aie | eeeg peared creeemmrg |S
= toe tos othe Desk, eal te Cosi Fle Seon tor po
eee wh RIT €
x
Ran Re et .
SENO/CE Jo t
“ a <7 can
"N MAK FEU ¢
: Wuterbai Les eacmever ek h
Le | CS \OPKEE eet re ek oe cet
‘ pert Fter- SFIS
= (Clee. UL Grew dee,
z ; : j
TF -
10, as
arene
WW. wr ‘ t
ia
FILE NUMBER
nice | {
: ENCLOSURE
44, RI/F 4.00!
| , 1p008 aacend ext
~ 21 Gop aaa/ mi
FORMNO. g19, v
BENS 10a SECRET ‘



14-00000

DISPATCH |

OCOA 3745

To Chief, WE Division ee
0
‘ aml
7 CROFT 1 [SRE
FROM Chief of Station, Ottawa MICK’ a 21 April 1959
pesr “JAVA ~ Intelligence Ruse \ AS oe

G. E, GOLUB and N. MAKEEV Joc,

micro. SER

MARKED FOR INDEXING.
(NO INDEXING REQUIRED,

RcTON wea

INDEXING CAN BE JUDGED

BY QUAUFIED HQ. DESK ONLY

ERENCES

1. | SMABLE would appreciate receiving any relevant
information you may have on two! Soviet Officials at present
serving in Finland. They are:

6reacemeover Ge EB. BOLUB - Soviet Consul ~ fe
, OREN muse = Correspondent for on gua ee

Lectvebs Mi
Both officials have been.in social contact. with members of the
-SHADD. Legation in Helsinki. This contact instigated by GOLUB

was allegedly to inquire about SMADD immigration procedure.

MAKEEV acted as his interpreter throughout the meeting.

2. SMABLE has a trace in their files referring to G..E.
GOLUB as Soviet Intelligence Officer acting as liaison man
with the Finnish Security Police.

3 There seems furthermore to be a similarity here with
the activities of Boris Lupovich TRETYAKOV (TRETIAKOU) Head
of the USSR Consular Section in Athens who has been conducting
similar inquiries with the SMADDs there.

Original and 3 ~ WE

USE paevious EDmON.
Rennes 8

Sie 51.268 aN 6°
‘inion ARE OBSOL

CRSTRCATION

