SECRET
SENSIND: EO

STAFF

CONF : EA INFO: DCEA/OPE, EYESONLY, MDSX, ODPD, FILE, C/EA,
DDO, EA/XO (4/P) 2
96 3598980 ASO PAGE 001

TOT: 2314312 MAR 96 DIRECTOR 700784
SECRET
STAFF 231431Z DIRECTOR 700784
TO: IMMEDIATE
FROM: LIMIT C/EA_ | INFO CHIEF/EA, DCEA/OPE, EA/XO
SLUGS: WNINTEL
SUBJECT: EYES ONLY - OFFICIAL, ACKNOWLEDGEMENT|
REF: NONE
TEXT:

1. ACTION REQUIRED: PLEASE PROVIDE| EXPEDITED

COMMENTS .

2. ON 22 MARCH WE WERE INFORMED THAT THE PRESIDENTIALLY
*APPOINTED<JFK ASSASSINATION>RECORDS REVIEW BOARD. HAS DECLARED ITS
INTENTION TO RELEASE THE FACT IN

THE EARLY 1960'S. APPARENTLY THERE IS SOME CORRESPONDENCE OR
CABLE TRAFFIC FROM THE EARLY 1960'S ON THE SUBJECT THAT INCLUDES
ON .THE DISTRIBUTION LINE. WE HAVE NOT YET SEEN THE

ACTUAL TRAFFIC BUT WE HAVE BEEN TASKE! ‘S ON
HOW THIS ACTION WOULD “AFFECT CURRENT

RELATIONSHIPS| /AMERICAN RELATIONS, ETC." GIVEN
THE PRESS SCRUTINY | THERE IS NO DOUBT IN

OUR MIND THAF SUCH A RELEASE WILL BE NOTICED BY THE
IA.

3. PLEASE PREPARE YOUR ARGUMENTS IN AS COMPLETE A MANNER AS
POSSIBLE. WE RECOMMEND THAT QUOTES FROM AMBASSADOR|
SUPPORTING POSITION, SHOULD ALSO BE INCLUDED. ACCORDING
TO THE INFORMATION PROVIDED US, THE ADDO HAS ADDRESSED THE BOARD
TWICE, MOST RECENTLY LAST MONDAY WHEN HE BRIEFED THEM ON WHY WE

CANNOT RI OUR INSTALLATIONS
VEN 30 YEARS AGO. THE BOARD ACCEPTED OUR ARGUMENTS
BUT REJECTED ONCE THE BOARD

OVERRULES US, OUR ONLY RECOURSE IS TO APPEAL TO THE WHITE HOUSE.

4. ONCE WE HAVE [ARGUMENTS IN HAND WE WILL PREPARE
THE NECESSARY MEMORANDUMS TO SUPPORT YOUR POSITION. FOR THE SAKE
OF STRUCTURE, WE ASK THAT YOU ORGANIZE YOUR ARGUMENTS ALONG
SUBTITLED THEMES SUCH AS IN PARA 2 ABOVE, INCLUDING THE RECENT
PRESS ATTENTION ON CIA ACTIVITIES AND THE HISTORICAL REFUSAL OF

. _ SECRET



fHFNO: 96-3598980

CABLETYPE:| GECO STAFF 1.0.1.5
RELNO: £E376810

“END OF MESSAGE

- ORIG: EAL 32616) ; REL:

SECRET
SENSIND: EO

PUBLICLY ACKNOWLEDGE OUR PRESENCE.
THE BOARD MEMBERS ARE ALL TOP SECRET CLEARED.

6. CL REASON: 1.5(C); DECL: X1.
7. §FILE: NONE. DECL OADR DRV HUM 4-82.

cf

SECRET

FYI,

5. OUR DEADLINE ON THIS MAY BE VERY SHORT SO PLEASE EXPEDITE
YOUR RESPONSE. WE APPRECIATE YOUR UNDERSTANDING.

CL. BY 704447.

