. uw SECRET A

18 October 1976
MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
a 2
SUBJECT GiPaPRICE-1)

The following information was uncovered during a review

H
of Cuban operational files, It should be brought to the attention

of C/LA/COG, and made a part of (ifeapnice-1's official 201 file;

A conversation from a telephone tap, af thé Cuban
Embassy in Mexico City, 22 November 1963: Marta, Oscar's wife,
tells LLAGOSTERA (Jose LLAGOSTERA Garcia, gardner at the Cuban
Embassy in Mexico City and reportedly G-2), to tell Oscar_that_,
he. forgot.some of the candy. LLAGOSTERA says that their plane
will not arrive’ until 1615 hours. Marta is sending the candy
to someone in Cuba and she doesn't want Oscar to forget it.
LLAGOSTERA tells Marta that a good man died today, Marta replied
really, who? KENNEDY, says LLAGOSTERA, Marta laughs, tells
LLAGOSTERA not to forget to tell Oscar about the candy, (Copy
of tape is. attached.)

b. Fron (SiCAPRICE-1's 201 file: In 1964 AMNIP-1
(Miguel ROCHE Monroy - DGI defector) suggested to (iitaparce-1
that the latter meet with CIA to talk about ridding Cuba of

Zz z

Communism. ($71 was non-committal, {S/1 met with Bob Shaw_in
1964. ga was recruited by CIA in 1975, During a debriefing
at that time, (21 said that he reported to the DGI in 1964
AMNIP-1's recruitment pitch to him, but said that he did not

mention Bob Shaw's name,

Felipe Acevedo



Note by Annie Goodpasture: 18 Feb 77, The attached transcript

was from a LIFEAT tap of the home of| The same call
appears in a LIENVOY transcript rihich was from a tap on the Cuban
Enbassy office phone, copy attached in Spanish (347 in margin indicates

call).
