-f0179-10209

(8588 ON 1 JULY AND TO MEET OTHER BOAT AT @903 SAME MORNING OFF

: RE
: : Back aro ft NT cy
Do lot Nd Usa CIA
: Repron, Only
oe  CUASSIFIED_ MESSAGE

y, _ SECRET

TO 1 DIRECTOR
rom SONWAVE

acnon Dz/ui [sh F
wo, DOP 74

SE CRE T 2791322
DIR INFO SJAN CITE WAVE 8556 i
172815975

eaetiitsh 1c YOBITE AMBANG A
RATT

1. ACCORDING AMFAST-6 REPORT 25 JUNE, AMBANG-} INFORMED PEPE
IGATILLO (JOSE GARCIA VALDEZ) THEIR DEPARTURE DATE FOR PBRUMEN WOULD
BE y JULY. BOAT TO BE USED IS UNNAMED RYBOVITCK reife IN FORT
LAUDERDALE AND SUPPOSED BE AT INTERNATIONAL MARINE DOCK 26 JUNE.
BELIEVED BE S1-FOOTER WITH TWO CHRYSLER ENGINES EACH 283 HORSE
POWER AND SPEED 35 KNOTS. AMBANG-1, GATILLO AND MECHANIC TO USE
RYBOVITCH WHILE 1950 GREEN CHRIS CRAFT, OWNED BY ARMANDO_ACOSTA
AND NOW AT ANACAPRI PIER, 1884 Nw NORTH RIVER DRIVE, MIANI TO
SERVE AS MOTHER SHIP AND BE OCCUPIED BY ARMANDO. ACOSTA, ORLANDO

ete 2a geness 20f— 201273
BEBO" ACOSTA SUAREZ, AND BILL CHUS, AMBANG INTEL CHIEF, CHUS
ree Snim

TO SERVE AS MECHANIC AND GO ASHORE WITH AMBANG-1.
2. GATILLO TOLD AMFAST-6 THAT HE AND AMBANG-1 TO LEAVE AT

ae SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHBNTED Copy No


oy

|
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE SECRET tn_ZSF 7S" pace 2__

PBPRIME COAST WHERE CHRIS CRAFT TO SUPPLY RYBOVITCK WITK 283 GALLONS
+ GASOLINE. THEY EXPECT ARRIVE COJIMAR ABOUT 2@ HOURS AFTER DEPARTURE.

ON THEIR ARRIVAL THEY TO BE MET BY

WHO TO TAKE THEN HABANA,
NAME!

3. GATILLO BELIEVES AMBANG-1 ACTUALLY PLANS LEAVE BEFORE
! JULY BUT HE DOES NOT WANT ANYONE KNOW EXACT DATE. HE HAS TOLD
ALL THOSE GOING WITH HIN BE READY BEFORE 1 JULY.

4. ON 24 JUNE GATILLO TOLD AMFAST-6 THAT AMBANG-1 ee REMAIN
PBRUMEN ABOUT 13 DAYS IN ORDER COORDINATE PLAN oF ACTION VITK
PEOPLE THERE AND IN ORDER TO SEE CERTAIN PEOPLE CLOSE AMTHUG-1 |
WHO PLOTTING WITH AMBANG~1, DATE TO RETURN TO PBRUMEN AND PICK |
UP ANSANG-1 TO BE SET AT TIME AMBANG-1 LANDS PSRUNEN, ANBANG-1
PLANS CALL ALL ORGANIZATION MEMBERS FOR VERY IMPORTANT.MEETING AT
WHICH TINE HE TO DEPART FOR PBRUMEN INSTEAD. THIS TO BE &7 OR 26 :

WIFE'S.

%6

JUNE. : : Pras RNB BY
3. GATILLO ALSO TOLD AMFAST=& on 24 JUNE THAT NICOLAS SALADO
enn anal

MATA LEFT 23 JUNE FOR WEST PALM BEACH BY TRUCK WITH TRAILERCD BOAT
WHICH BELONGS AMBANG ORGANIZATION. MOTOR OF BOAT TO BE REPAIRED

IN VEST PALM BEACH AND THEN BOAT TO BE SHIPPED PUERTO RICO ABOARD
FERRY. GATILLO SAID TWO MEN CLAIMING BE ODENVY. AGENTS WENT TO PIER ©
LOOKING FOR SALADO AND BOAT. THEY ANGRY TO FIND BOTH GONE. GATILLO
COMMENTED Trey DID NOT LOOK LIXE ODENVY AGENTS AND HE DOUBTS THEY

1 SECRET
NN


CLASSFIED MESSAGE SECRET | NLSAIS pace S__.

WERE. AMOT TRACES REVEAL JOSE NICOLAS SALADO MATA BORN 1S MAY 25

IN ISABELA DE SaAGUA, LAS VILLAS, LEFT PBRUMEN 25 SEPT 61 AND
NUMBER A 12 493 7328,

ARRIVED WAVE AREA ON OLGA ON 27 SEPT. - ASSIG,
IAN AND KNOWS NORTH COAST VARADERO VERY VELL. (SEE

WAS FIS¥

CaaS
WAVE 8375, NOT SENT SJAN, FOR ALLEGED REPORT SALADO TOOK ELOY
GUTIERREZ KENOYO PBRUMEN.?

6. ACCORDING AMRAZZ-1 REPORT 24 JUNE, MAX LESNICK SAID ON
23 JUNE THAT AMBANG-1 INVITED NEW YORK BY CHIEF LaTIN AMERICAN
SECTION TINE MAGAZINE AND THAT HE LEAVING FOR NEW YORK MORNING 24
JUNE. LESNICK SAID ANSANG=1 TOLD HIM HIS VISIT TO NEW YORK CONCERNED
PUBLICITY WHICH APPEARED TIME ABOUT HIS ARREST AND TELEGRAN OF
PROTEST WHICH HE HAD SENT TO TIME ABOUT FALSENESS PUBLICITY.
LESNICK TOLD ANRAZZ-1 HE VERY CONFIDENT AMBANG-! WOULD LEAVE FOR
PBRUNEN WITHIN TWO WEEKS. :

7. ON 25 JUNE AMRAZZ-1 SAID ED REINGOLD OF TINE TOLD HIM ON :
24 JUNE THAT AMBANG-1 HAD GONE NEW YORK THAT DAY TO MEET WITH HIS
BOSS GEORGE DANIELS AND THAT HE WOULD PROBABLY BE BACK WAVE AREA
25 JUNE. REINGOLD DISCLAIMED INTENTION MAKING FUN AMBANG-1 IN HIS
ARTICLE. HE SAID HE HAD NOT NENTIONED ANYTHING TO EFFECT THAT
AMTHUG-1 MUST BE’ LAUGHING AT HIM AND THAT THIS HAD BEEN PUT IN BY
NEw YORK RE-WRITE MAN WHO DOES NOT LIKE AMBANG-1. :

8. ACCORDING AMTAUP-2, IN DD-988 OF 24 JUNE» WHO TALKED WITH

GV AMBANS-{ ON 23 JUNE, AMBANG-1 sald HE GOING ZRMETAL 24 JUNE. AMOT

| SECRET

SN ceematanel



SECRET LIS pace 4

AGENT ACCIDENTALLY OSSERVED AMBANG-1 LEAVE HOUSE AT N¥ S8TH ST AND

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

ISTH AVE AT $345 24 JUNE AND PROCEED TO JACKSON BYRONS WHERE HE
WAS MORNING 24 JUNE. CWAVE COMMENT: AMBANG-i HAY KAVE BEEN
ATTEMPTING LEAK MISLEADING INFO TO PRECLUDE DISCOVERY HIS ACTUAL

WHEREABOUTS.)

SECRET easels

erred

