frou tozte-touat

a

7 April 1965
TSD/BAB 156-65 :

i
|
i
i

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, WH/Cuba/RR/OS
ATTENTION : Grace Roberts
SUBJECT : Handwriting Analysis - AMLASH-1

Attached herewith is the handwriting assessment
report on subject as requested by your memorandum #2
dated 17 March 1965. The report was prepared by

urs. lof this office. Any comments or criticism

would be appreciated.

Attachments:
Report & |
h.w. samples (5)

Distribution:
2 Addressee w/atts.

SSE



Ni ROOM EE Ect

Abpea seria meadeatmvebise

AMLASH/1

Henduriting Assesozent Report

The writer is apparently a rather clever and shrewd individual
who nay appear core correct and hareless than ectually is the cases
He is intelligent, well eduested and evidently has cquired profes-
sional training and expericnce. He as absorbed the material he hus
read and studied and viiliz
clear, logical and ada:

b -d understunés quickly,
but he is deliberate and cautious befo ting himself into a new

or altered situation, le is 2 cool and calculazing observer who re-
lates the smallest details to their larger aspects. iis synthesizing
faculties are more pronounced than his analyzing abilities; ne is quite
skillful ia putting two and tvo together" from the thiage Le sees and
hearc. Kost Eeorle in his environnent may not even be avare of his
astutenecs and vigilance, as he may intentionally convey the impression
ef being preoccupied with his own thoughts. discards sugerfluous
matters as much as possible, but occasionally the vitul points in

more complex or unfaniliar problems have to be pointed out to hin, as
he could miss them when left to tis owa devices. He tries to cozbine
isagination with cober-mdedness and satter-of-Zzctness, but not al-
ways successfully. As a result, he may be, at tires, sozevhat awkward
and unrealistic in his approach. ke possesses zore mental independence
than he cares to show and while pretending to conform, «iay follow some
private personal inclinations. lowever, he docs not possess much
originality and seems to try out various forms and thought patterns
.with which he can identify himself. He 4s active and curious and
constantly tries to broaden his horizon. He is still in the process
of mental developrent and growth anc ke is not yet quite able to gauge
the risks and consequences when he exercises initiative. He may be

aware of this and compensate by interzittent overesutiousness. Basical-

ly rather impressionable, he makes strong efforts at concentrating
intensely on whst ke is doing, shutting out all yossible distractions
and diversions. His memory functions well, and he scems to have ac-
cumulated a rather diversified store of knowledge and information.

The writer is not a born organizer, but he tries to arrange his
affairs properly and to be as systenatic and methodical as possible, in
order to avoid confusion. He is active and versatile aud can make sud-
den changes when required. Be possesses great facility in expressing
hinself in word and script. He has sone skill in adjusting his style
to that of the people he is talking to. While he can be rather elo~
quent, he is not likely to divulge anything which should be kept
secret. He has come intuition and also sensitivity for selecting and

ates
, SEGRE Le
ie ;
Hi Se REAR BRE Re RAMI ER Pe a No

SUDAN at SR TLCHRN ORIN. a

1
i
|

RH



ei,

sei SB LL RRMA MN RTARTA

-2-

judging the proper quality of material for a definite purzose. Also,
he poceesses auntcl ckill whieh he could exploit in different wayse
Widle he has learced to figure and calcclate, this activity goes rot
seen to old his interest. Meverthcless, ke is cone:rned with moneys
He is rather free in spending it and cay not always sot along with
the neans et bie dicposal. In his selected professional field, he
tieuld be u good student who octivates all his resources for proper
ceyaneesent, even though he cay have a tucber of additional interests.

Tnotionally writer is not quite cature and he hides bebird
a pore sorhisticsted and poised bearing. He hus his feelings and ize
pulses under the ctrictest control. lie is a role player who ray ayrear
vere eatural and spontaneous than he actually ise He is detached,
very reserved and avoids exotional involvezent wherever possible, even
though ke may pretend the oposite. He is zelf-centered and rather
Wain, and most concerned with nis personal advantages le 4% Wary
proud and occasionally likcs to play the bis shot~ Ee is very self=
Mefensive and self-rrotective, constantly guarding Me elf against real
br inecinery dancers. Apparently, ke tries to steel | sself, in order
oo be foucher thon ke constitutionally is. His erotional seas’ of
proportion is not well balanced; he may overezshasize an insignificant
proPaent, while he dicrecards an important hapeening. AS & result, he
may take unvise erances, im order to show how courageoks he is, while
wt’ other tiaes be is covardly in situations which are not dangerous at
fll. Eowever, vhatever mistakes ne say make in this aves he will
Gover them up ost skillfully. He is very secretive about his affairs
fn general and dces not confide easily in anybody~ There is little
coneitency in his eaotional attitudes, and he could surprise those in
fie closer environsent by rather unexyected actions and reactions.
The only ecotionsl tics he has cay be to his traditional backround;
otherwise, b: not po nuch 2 Ee can exercise veri
deceptive secnanisn. tf foshion, and while cenonstrat~
ing a szooth behavior. lic can make his claims snosn in indirect and
fies veyse He is still in uncertain stages of his exotional develor~
cont and has not yet found his proper courses He is somewhat overstrain=
eo'ord hie tensions absorb a ccnsidereble portion of nis basic energiess
fae he can auster sufficient strength at present to support his function-
ings

Apparently, the writer dissipates his efforts somewhat and tries
to do sore than he can handle comfortsbly. In spite of his occasionally
overbearing attitude, he is still in seed of guidances and probably func-
tions best in a clearly structured environment. He tries to te neat and
orderly. when he does not divide his attention, he can be exact, con=
Goientious and reliable in the execution of his tasks: However, un
pressure, he can becose eareless and negligent and then cazouflage most
Piilifully any shortcomings in hic work. He should have some capability

|

prey sop ye A LARABSERER I mA IL DPERANG IAL EPS ILS i ih ECD

eisai tdi doer naira ane HSRABHILA MTG

ot

e


as a physician;
S) _ée

and it should be difficult to detersine which course he is got
takes uch may depend on his environzental con

flucncing bine

‘TSE/hd
W/6fe5

probably a special talent for diagnosis and poscibly

gurgery. In :ddition, he could be cuitedle for certain
“BFpes of intelligence wora, but ke nay lack coze ezotional stability
\ gna stamina, in order to go throuyh with all sians and arsignzents.
At present, he seers to be in a phase of uncertainty ond indecision,

5 to
nditions and who is in-

