# 104-10162-10101

## Page 1

104-10162-10101

:ONG:

UNITE®

EXT :

DATE :

WH/4/SA/BCO#

2361

6 FEBRUARY 2961

689

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SEGRET

6г

1 23

16-19

28z

ROUTING

TO

RAID, JADD, WAVE, JAIRAY, EGLIN APB, GUATEMALA CITY,

PARAMA CITY

FROM:

CONF BELL 15

INFO:DDP, COP, ADDP/A, DPD 4, WH 3, BELL S/C

6 FEB 61 23282

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

OUT 8302

MIT 0200

TO

OPIN BARDHADD, WAVEINFO ROUTINE TRAV, EGLI, GUAT,

PACY

JACAP /ANHAZE /SNCLEAR/LADKIM

L. ALINDY ONE AND TEAM SHOULD PROCHED WAVE ASAP. ES-54-131 NTLI

ARRIVE MADD 9 FEB AND FROCEED RAND TO RETURIT A-ONE AND TEAM TO MAID FOR

TRANSTER TO ES-54-135 FOR FIT TO JMPIG. ETA FIG IS 240029. MISSION.

DIRECTIVE SITE BE SEPARATE CABLE. IF HEATHER IS BAD FINS 134 AND 135 VILI

EACH DELAY 24 HOURS.

2. FOR MADD: WHILE A ONE AND TRAM AT MADD THEY SHOULD BE HELD

SCUR ARRA, INCOMMUNICADO TO PROTECT KNOWLEDGE A-ONE PRESTICE SNROUT?

PEPSINE. HO OTHER FAX SHOULD BE INCLUDED FIT 135 TO FIG FOR SAME REASON

KITEOUT SPECIFIC BETT. CONCURRENCE.

3. FOR MAVE: ARRANGE SAFE SUTE WAVE AREA TO HOLD A-ONE TEAM FENDING

ENTE LISTRICTIONS RE DISFOSTTION TEAM AND TO PREVENT DISCIOSURE A-QUE

FEESENCE PREDE. WAVE SHOULD ARRANGE FIX A-ONE HRS ASAP AFTER ARRIVAI

TIG KITE ICTICE BELI A-OES ETA HOS.

*. WAVE WIL PIS SUPPLI A-ONE SUITABLE CIOTEING YOR HAS TRIP.

SUGGEST ANCIATTER ONE TAKE A-ONE TO AIRPORT TO XERP A ONE AS INCOMMUNICADO

AS FOSSTELE NETTE IN MAVE ARBA. ADVISE A-ONE HE TO BE JIT HAS IND BY

•OORDINATINO OFFICE

201-2674372

46R:

AUTA

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Capy Ma.

RETURN TO GIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

---

## Page 2

0IG

UNIT

DATE :

то :

FROM: 1U0ES50€ BETT

CONF:

INFO =

TO

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

_SECRET

282

16=19 (+) ROUTINO

PAGE 2

INFO

6 FEB 61 23282

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

OUT 8302

BELL 1203

CHE TAX BETE

"TOUARDO". IMPRESS A-CE MITH MORD POZ AIRTIGHT FENSOLAN GENIPITY HIS

FRESENCE PEPRIKE VANIL EDUARDO REMOVES RESTRICTION.

5. JOB JARAND: IDISE NEGERS A-QUE TRAM TO BELE BBCUR ARAP SO AS

TO ARRANGE B.P. NITE ODURGE.

END OF MESSAGE

A3/DPD

17/4/80

H/4/тH

1a drest)

Mullane (in draft,

C.I.

Darwis

1331215, C/OPS

castanalis

FOOROINATINO OFFICE

BECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

03

03

ba 080

Destinies

TICATING QFFICER

Copy No.

3/PV

---

