‘[tos-tove7-1o00t

7

i
5

SUBJECT: Guidance to Gerafino ROWULDI for bis Meeting vith Busebio MUJAL
on 26 June to Discuss MUJAL's List of CIC Leavers (copy attaches)
end Answer MUJAL's Request for Comments es to Uhieh of Then Might

f be Acceptable to FED.

i a
i 1. On 22 Jane Mosere. XOD called on Mr. Reichhardt,
t WR//PA, and requested aseie! Tn giving guidance to ROMAULDI for his discussion
\ with MIJAL on 26 June of the attached list of CTC leaders, which vas preparad by
MOJAL for the purpcse of determining froa ROMAUIDI vbieh of thase leaders night be
1 acceptable for ineluston in « labor front to function as part of the FAD. Mr.
ie Rolobhardé saié he would Like to review the background on this before giving thea
\ - en anaver.
H
i
i
al
‘Ss

4 & On 23 June xf fe with Mr. Reiebhardt and Mise Tharpe. With
Foference to MIJAL's labor front in connection with the ¥RD, br. Reichbardt

' @aié've had no knowledge of any plen for « labor front se euch. Mr. Reichberdt

i) veferred to the agreement between 10) and wa/h that there would be no official con-

". @ao’ with MUJAL and ROMAULDI's contact would be continued only for the: purpose of
wonitoring, and that to the extent possible CIA esects would be used to negate
MOJAL's activities, He aleo mentioned that Tony VARGIA-had said he would talk to: -~
WAL from tine to tine in order to be tnformed of what MJAL was doing, but he
ad ne idea of including MAL, or eny 2 bis group, in the FBD complex. Kr.
Refobbardt said he felt 1t must be soaumed that MIJAL io avare of ROMAULDI's con~
nection with the U.8. Government and vould, therefore, interpret RCMAULDI's reply t 1
ge official approval cr dieayproval. In view of the above, Mr. Reichhardt reccumended
that ROMAULDI's response to MUJAL should be that the choice of labor leadera to be t
affiliated vith the FRD-1e an FRD matter snd would have to be decided by FRD leadera, ‘ y
bot it vas ROMAULDI’s personal opinion thst none of the CFC leaders listed by BOSAL Hy
would be acceptable to the FAD because of their affiliation with the BATISZA regine.
Ea suggested that if MAL pressed ROMAUIDE for an ansver, he might tell <wJAL be
ehould take the matter up with VARGHA.

3. aed with the above in principle and thought RGAGtte reply
to MUJAL shi ‘long those Lines. However, he brought up the matter of VAROHA's
Belection of Rafael OTERO, who fe closely allied with MAL, te mko 4 speaking
tour of latin Americas and mentioned thas YARGIA had previously indicated an intereot
{in Manolo FERNANDEZ of the Artiste Union. Both OTERO and FERHARDEZ are included on
WITAL's liot. Mr, Reiolherdt said he did not know VARGWA's reeson for selecting

’ GEBRO for thie tour, but eiuse 1t was not to begin until 2 July, Mr. Droller vould
have time to discuss tho matte: in with VARONA and take some action if it was
@004608 that OTZRO is ton closely allied vith MUJAL to be effective with Latin

Averioan labor movenents. Mr. venarked that OTERO is well known to labor 7
movowente in other Latin Amari ccintries, but he ie not an effective speaker and

i
* dig n kno MASALIOTA or i
4

RETURN TO.CIA™

' Bartha Tharje :
aie ; Wifo/Political Aotion — Background Use Only
Attechnents eee ; Do Not Reproduce

{Eder of O10 Insdera

NR

Jct nk rintasriminn Pato

