# 104-10124-10199

## Page 1

104-10124-10199

UNELASSIFIED

TERNAL

E

ONLY CRES DELEVAL

CON

ROUTING "AÑD" RECORD SHEET

ENTIAL

SECRET

SUBJECT: (Optional):: 110%

MEROLA, Joseph R. (OS #625 693)

FROM:

TO:

1.

2.

6M.6TG

i CONTAOT SERVICE

22/-991.0160

desigestion, Pg8 number, and

RECEIVED

Chief,

Personnel Security

Division, OS

Rm 3E36 Headquarters:

ATTN:

Pauline White

EXTENSION

DATE -

17244.

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

NO.

DATE

5 December 1972

2200392-4

COMMENTS (Number

"each comment to show from, whom

to whom.

Draw @ line ocross column after each comment.)

FORWARDED

Deota gut

RER:

DCS/MIM181-72 dtd 20 Nov 72

Messe

Attached 18

242-4,47

referenced memorandum for your

information and records.

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do lad leproduce

10

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

FORAA

3-62

DO USE PREVIOU

EDITIONS

SECRET

COMAOZNTAL

CONFIDENTIAL

E2 IMPDET CL BY 007622

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 2

DATIANAI PROMINA 1I

MAY 10:0 EDITIEN

GSA FRITE (91 CFIl 951-91.8

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandun

TO

: Director, Donestic Contact Serice

ATTN:

Services

Division

FROM : Chief, Miami Field Office

MIM-181-72

DATE: 20 November 1972

-

SUBJECT:

Joseph R. Merola

I. We recently received a call from Joseph R. Merola, Gordon

Cooper and Associates, Opa-Locka, Florida, who informed us that he

was entering the county jail in Nassau County, New York on 13 Novem-

ber 1972 to begin a one year sentence for petty larceny.

He stated

that he felt he should let us know his whereabouts "in case you wanted

to get hold of me for anything".

2.

herola, of course, protested his innocence to us and stated

that he was accused of participating in an armed robbery and was tried

on this charge in May 1972 with the trial ending in a hung jury. He

claimed

charges because of his inability to prove Merola's guilt. Merola

alleges that the judge stated that Merola's record proves him an un-

desirable character and therefore the charges should not be dropped.

The judge thereupon offered him the choice of a retrial with a promise

of a twenty-five year sentence if convicted, or to plead guilty to a

charge of petty larceny with a one year sentence. Merola choose the

latter.

3. We thanked him for his thoughtfulness and wished him well.

24.

3 hmm

5:5.1.18

E 2 IMPDET CL BY 004476

Buy U.S. Sawings Bonds Rogulariy on the Payroll Savings Plan

---

