ioeiooret0arg]

_(

“D 5 PAT CH Tai al RVBAT : PROCESSING ACTION

MARKED FOR INDEXING

Chicf, WOMUSE NO INDEXING REQUIRED

' Ghief, European Division | 7/7 ean uoee moBN
Ee Chief of Station, * vam MICROFIM
Eat ped MHCHAOS Spb
Action: See paragraph 3

Reference: 14721, 30 September 1969

1. As you will note in paragraph 7 of the Reference, we
asked to give us compiled information that they have on
various MHCHAOS targets, At the time they said that these con-
tained their own internal source information and could not be
passed, They promised, however, to furnish us the same material
in _a form that could be passed, The attached two

were recently passed to us in response to

this request,

2. From a cursory review of the material it appears that
some of it is already known to you, Some is overt information
while other items reflect results of | |investigations and
thorough checking, We are also attaching| | letter of
transmittal which updates some of the information, You will note
that they invite our comments,

3. We feel that this is somewhat of a break through with
we have not received this kind of complete report from
them recently. We intend very soon to offer some comments to
them and especially offer our appreciation, Your comments also
would be appreciated,

4, We do not know for sure if LNERGO was also given these
We assume they were not, If we determine that they were

passed to LNERGO we will let you know.
A, ie Toei
heodore D.

Attachment: #4 ufsfe-
As Stated
Distribution:
~- Chief, WOMUSE w/att
2 - Chief, EUR w/o att

#orst

‘CROSS REFERENCE TO [DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER DATE

14814 4 November 1969

CLASSIFICATION HOS FILE NUMBER

200-006-387/3




of the SDU at SFU, consists of left-wing activists? in this
category. Martin LONEY, who was one of the student leaders

during the SFU incident, entered Canada as a British citisen in
August 1966. Dr. Thomas Burton BOTTOMORE , @ leading Marxist
and author on Marxism as well as a British citizen, took up --
employment at SFU in 1965 as head of the Department of Political
Science, Sociology and Anthropology (PSA). BOTTOMORE, as head of
the PSA, was responsible for the hiring of Kathleen ABERLE, a
British citizen, and of Thomas Harold BROSE, John William Carl ~
LEGGKIT, Nathan POPKIN and Martin NICOLAUS, all U.S. citizens.

Although the largest concentration of foreign radicals
at SFU was in the PSA, other activists did take positions in -
other departments.t These included Sidney COONTZ, Michael Allen .
LEBOWLTZ, Paul Edward IVORY, and Maurice HALPERIN, all U.S. -
citizens, and Laughlin Bernard CURRIE, a citizen of Colombia. -~ ~~:

7 Mordecai BRIEMBERG, who took over as head of the PSA
Department after BOTTOMORE tendered his resignation in 1967, has
expressed a desire to remain as Department head in order to keep a
his hand in on the hiring. In this regard, Gerald SPERLING is, =~
through BRIEMBERG, making efforts to get Malcolm SYLVERS, an American
Marxist university professor who apparently worked for the Comaunist
underground in Italy during the early 1960's, into SFU.

eee Professor Donald E. EPSTEIN of the Political Science -
Department at the University of Waterloo, an American citizen ~~~
described as a draft dodger and an SDS member prior to his arrival
in Canada~in 1967, as previously indicated, has been active in -
organizing and directing students in tactics and methods by which

, they could take physical possession of university buildings.

/ EPSTEIN, who has been active in student power activities at

' Waterloo, has apparently been refused tenure at that University

‘ and there are indications that activist students intend to challenge

\ the administration in this regard.

Professor Norman STRAX,7 an American who was employed

‘as an Assistant Professor of Physics at the University of New
Brunswick, precipitated the crisis at that University. STRAX was _
instrumentas in the formation and activities of the SDS branch at
that point...

15ee APPENDIX 16 ‘for further details on
specific foreigners living in Canada.
2500 APPENDIX 16.

3The SDS at UNB is also known as the Canadian Struggle
for a Democratic Society (CSDS).

2. /27



14-00000

aa coho 225, APPENDIX 16

In early 1967, BROSE received a Canada Council grant for research
on Mexican politics and, in the fall of 1967, visited Cuba.

BROSE, one of the first exponents of academic freedom and tenure
of appointments at SFU, was a key spokesman during the CAUT censure
of the S¥YU administration issue. He supported the radical group's

attempts to push faculty demands on academic and administration
matters to the extreme. :

Leroy Roger BUTCHER - student, SGWwU

BUTCHER, a West Indian and a manber of the SGWU

Caribbean Students Society, attended the Black University Conference
(BUC) at Howard University, Washington, on 13 to 17 November 1968
where he stated that only by working together would Black people
achieve their objective - total liberation, black nationality and
black identity. BUTCHER was elected Chairman of the International
‘Black Student Union organized at the BUC and plans were made for the
Union to operate in every university in the Western Hemisphere. It
was following BUTCHER's return to Montreal that the Black Students
Association was organized. BUTCHER was one of the key leaders
during the occupation of the Computer Centre at SGWU and was one

of those arrested during the riot.

& Sidney COONTZ ~ Associate Professor, SFU

é COONTZ, a U.S.A. citizen who was granted landed

: immigrant status in Canada in 1966, became an Associate Professor .
of Mathematics at SFU in January 1968. COONTZ has a history of
ior involvement which, although sporadic, dates back to thé
930's. :

+: 2 Laughlin Bernard CURATE - Professor, SFU

CURRIE, formerly an American citizen, was implicated as a
Communist fellow traveller in the mid-1940 espionage trials in the_
United States and subsequently went to Colombia where he took out
citizenship. Following this, in May 1967, he came to Canada and
has since obtained landed immigrant status.. CURRIE was responsible
for interviewing and recommending Maurice HALPERIN, described below,
for a position at SFU and purposefully played down HALPERIN's

Marxist leanings, claiming that HALPERIN had been a victim of cir-
cumstances.

o- /3



2-5). + APPENDIX 16

Kennedy Jerome FREDERICK - student, SGWU

FREDERICK, a West Indian, arrived in Canada in August
1967 to attend university at SGWU. FREDERICK is a member of the
militant Negro movement at the University and advocates violence.
He is considered by some parties to be extremely dangerous and
capable of drastic actions. He was active in organizing the
occupation or the Computer Center at SGwWU and was one of those
arrested during the riot.

Maurice HALPERIN - Professor, SFU

: ” HALPSRIN was born on 3. March 1906 at Boston, Massachusetts
ia entered Canada in the spring.of 1968. In late 1953 he left the
United States for Mexico in order to avoid testifying before a -
., United States Senate internal sub-committee. In 195#, when the
Mexican Government began deporting United States Communists,
HALPirIN went to the Soviet Union, and became a visiting professor
at the U.5.5.r. Academy of Sciences. He went to Cuba in October
ly62 as a professor of Economy at the University of Havana, where
he remained employed until coming to Canada. He is currently
employed with the Faculty of Education, Behavioural Science **
Foundation, at Simon Fraser University. As noted above, Laughlin
‘Bernard CURRIE lobbied very hard to have HALPERIN accepted by
Simon Fraser University. CURRIE was aware of HALPERIN's Pence
and "watered it down" to get him the appointment.

g ofr particular interest in this case is the fact that

< CURRIE and HALPERIN were associated with the same espionage sroup
in the United States, His application for landed status was th
subject of an objection by the RCMP and, as yet, no final decision
has been made by the Minister of Immigration.

At Alfred Alan HEWZOG - graduate student, McGill University.

HERZOG, a U.S.A. citizen, travelled to several Canadian
university campuses with Robert CRUISE, a leader of the Inter-
nationalists (pro-Chinese Communist) , in their promotion of the
Canadian Student Movement. He is a member of the Intellectual
and Patriotic Workers of Quebec (les Intellectuels et Ouvriers
Patriotes du Quebec - IOPQ), was involved in the occupation of SGiWW
in February 196y and is a close associate of the leader of the
Intvernationalists H.S. BAINS (see APPENDIX 14).



D
DANIELS, Danny, A5/1
DANSEREAU, Suzanne, 49, 93
DARRELL, Bryan, 95
DAVIS, Chester, 85, 89, 91,
-” 93, 127, A16/3
DAVIS, Horace Chandler, 74,
7. Ab/6, A16/3 .
DAYE, Buddy, 88-89
De FREITAS, Michael
(Michael X), 88
DELINE, Graham, 55~56
DENT, Kenneth Victor, 65
De POE, David, 58
DEWART, Leslie Sutherland,
AL/6

DOFNY, Jacques Franz Alfred
“on. (Profs) 47, 98, 109,

“" 127, A12/1-2, A16/4
DOUGLAS, Rosie, 84-86,

88-69. 91, 93-94, 127,

DRACHE, Daniel Eron, 31, 34
DUBE, Pierre, 50

DUBUC, Alfred (Prof.), 98
DUTSCHKE, Rudi, 9, 27, 4

g
EAST, Kenneth, 119
EBRAHIM, Ahmid Gora, 81
EDMONDS, Duncan, 55
EDWARDS, Bob, A4/10
ELPHINSTONE, Bruce, 136
ENDICOTT, Dr, James G.,
AL/5, At/9-10,
A16/3
ENDICOTT, Norman, Al/5-7,
Al,/9-10
ENGLER, Allan, 73
EPSTIEN, Donald E. (Prof.),
118, 126, A16/1
ERNST, (see ADAMS; Eric
ESCARTIN, Ricardo, 42
EVANS, Pe Dwight, A4/6,

E

FANON, Franz, 87

FAUTEUX, Benoit, 58

FEIT, Harvey Allan, 31

FELDHAMMER, Louis, 114 :

FERRETTI, Andree, 99-103,.109, Al3p

FISHER, Sethard, 53 :

FORMAN, James, 46, 87

FOULKS, James G., AL/7 :

FRANK, Andrew pores ets eg - eg

REDERICK, Kenned: 91, 93, :
ALS os “ &§

FRYE, H. Northrop, A4/5
;

GALLAGHER, John, “121 02-2
GARAUDY, Dr. Roger (Prof.
azl2, Al2/l

GARCIA, Jacinto, 65

GELLNER, John, 27 :

GIBBS, beverly, 72, A10/1

GOLDMANN, Lucien (Prof.),A12/1

GOLDSTICK, Daniel Jeffrey .

« (Danny), 40, 64-65 .- ..

.. «x GOODINGS, Stewart, 55 «0°

~--““GRAHAM, David, 79

GRAY, Stanley, 34, 50-51, 82,
106-107, 109, 136, A5/1-3

GREENBANK, Tom, 72

GRIFFIN, Phillip, 85

GROULX, Lionel, 100

GUEVARA, "Che", 2i

H >.
HALPERIN, Maurice, 126, A16/2,
Al6/5_ =
HANLY, Charles Mervyn Taylor,
123, Ab/1, AL/6
HARDING, James, 30, 32, 39-40
54, 113, A3, A8/1
HAY, Roderick Winston, 118
HAYDEN, Tom, 27
HEIBERT, Ken, 114
HEMMINGWAY, Dave, 72, A10/1
HERZOG, Alan (Fred), 82, A16/5

98,
