104-10179-10013

21 Nov.Contact Report,
para 6: 1940 consti sutto[
Bet, to be the Baska for

AY's future i

——_—*

CONTACT REPORT

SPs Meeting with Maruel Key wid Rewl Chibes in the latterts
apartagit (30 west Soh Strest, New York City) on 2%
Bovenber, 1960.

PART ORE OF THREE

1. Note: thie nesting hed been called by.me in order to imple-
ment the decisions reached at Besiquarters concerning oar futore .
relationships wits the MEP. (See Reaorandam Por The Record dated 21
November 1960, DIR 12532, OUT SiS23, and C/WE/W/PA's semarancim to
CAmU'L, 9 Kovende>, 1960; aleo see MASH 1774, IW 45616 which states that
Runt obtained Varonata concarrence on 21 Noventer to finance the MRP via

. the FRD’s controller.)

7 2. The nesting was atarted by wo tolling Ray that I hed received @
t _ somewhat garbled ueseage concamming @ certain operation in the Jale of
: Pines. How serious an widertaking we this end what, precisely, vas
: Anvolved? (Comment: ‘hfs question was posed pursuant to instruction by
CAGI): and in line ith C/WH/k/PX's moacrandun to ne.) Ray informed me -
es follows: -s . - 2

trier eecettiteare (a) There aro-two garrisons stationed at the Isle of Pines
with whoa hie organication has acotact.” Que garrison te commanded
giz ee Sould comt on aopraxbutely 750 men to
follow hin when at lecides to break away from Castro.
of 0 has epproxisstaly $0 trustworthy afficlele under hig
Command (whwther these cfficare were military or civilien Ray did
not know) which were ready to assist in miti-Castre activitice—the
: eocand garrigcn waa loceted at the Punta Del Rete and wns
: @ coast artillery installation. Ray did not revel] the nana of ite -
. . a commending officer. “
i ‘\ . onl
if (>) Quite separately from the @, Rayts peoplé are in come
i : tect with e (fsa 1s the[ccmenter of the prisch]ehere
i Rober Metos te 4 4. According te relisble infornation, Ray
H O\eays, Imay de of Eelp in arranging ths escape of Matos, A
fenali arrived ic Nisid on 21 Novesber said that Matos ~~
veces to tae et das givm=avia Ais wife uho cen vieit bis
at ‘the peiean-- ay to utsite [is arrorts aeeigsed to
Liberate Matos fram prissn. fy . :
(0) Tn considering the eituation ostiined ip (a) end {b} sbove,
> are felt that: one aingle operation should
‘ercare believe that, if Hater Matos oan
aot tore: te paragraph 2(8) above
wi otter t~cove att B gerd part of the pcpaation 42 i:
the Tale of Fis ome ty the asae Iatnc, {8 anicabtedly loyal to - :
a
1

meney a peetee te

Lassi * ietage ‘he MEP feats that the Tele af Pines area under

eee

Aoj- ASELGHE

3184



consideration een prodebly not be held ey thea for any leagth of
tine unless certain sognents ef Castro's air forces can be newtra~
Used either pricr or during the coap. The Mifers are not eo much
concerned ebout Castro'e greand forsey accarding to Ray there are
cely thrcs ick oF panees Lesding into the leie of Pines over

marsh lend. fheso roede, the MRPera foal, can tly enough
AC Hstnhonped by thea, do mat! or stand, the general concept of
would be fi to captare and nestralise Chino,

oUrse form a ¢ spprocimately LO man and drive
to the 8 prison erea—an ostensibly routine trip which has
bem ferforsed in the pest s aumber of times in order to get

OwuppLies_for| & garrigon. Matoe woald be freed with the
Orlbelp hat tine and aluost simultanscualy with his
Oiliveratian th ond Parte Del kets gerrisme wald nove and

* occupy tactical end, perhaps, algo strategio locations.

(d} The peason thet er was sot ag the iarget date
4 H wa that bot] and are-due for rctation in the very
naar futars, Tmore, plennere think, Sunday 1a the

deat day to mount such mm operation,

3. After the above exposition tay asked for the following assis-
tences =

(a) Our support to and/or trios on how to neatralise Castrots
air force,
(b) Intelligence data coucerning coastal nining md air fields,

(o) Delivery of snti-air craft artillery end continuing re+
Bepery for anti-Castro rebels after the operatiun has vere, end

(4) Maps prepared by the Aerial Service Company af Philadelptte,
Ponneyivante, (1)

L. Witheut making any comitzents cn the above requeet I saked
vhether a: not Ray had proper ccamanfoation facilities at his disposal snd
whether or not bie people inside were able to receive, | e, and use any
qupplice which right cave their wy. I also asked wiat specific types of
weapons the MRP planners were thinking of and what kind of aummitien, ‘i
Fe-ecpply would be needed for erng now alrenty in the bande of anti-Castro
Cubans in thet area. “It beceis cloar that Bay did act have the scovers to

hase questions which be felt should te referred far “aiveuseien te
the, *tectnical level,* 1.., Colouel. Berquin ao BY :

Se At thie peint of the conversstion I tegan with the ixpleaentation
of the Keadcvartere decisions reeched in regerds te the Fendér grcup's:
ouppert cf the HRP: I said that I wanted ie repdet comente I bed nade
Frevicualy to Onitas, Esteves, Barqein, and Xayy nagecy, that the Render
group could not afford any duplicetion cf arti-ceetr: efforte tn

adeirietrative ong suprhy mactinery hed teen eatatlioned fr juste ome
tine, azt that tule rachinary, 1.6., the Yrette Kevc‘iciscario Pemscratioo,

word have te be utilized tc the fallset in cperati we éf thie scrt. Ray

j

16K


ii : en eee it?

i * wdendtedly knes| elec the military adviser to the FRD;

<~ any atime:te would undoubtedly carry the FRD label and in al] Mike~

: Aihced FRD-prepared, antiolastra litersture would sccospany such ahi

. mente; plane acd plete utilized in each an undertaking were FRD
and identified as suck.

|
6. Ruyte reply to thie wes sanmuhat as fcllowss while the FAD ap
thinks it castrate these pilote I, Baader, should at lest realise tht
the pilota whe were working formerly for Crbana Air Lines really
Dalonget to the MEP. In any case he, Bay, and the MRP weald sccept the
Proposed arrergarent tecause it would not imply that the MAP ie politi-
cally beholder, to the FRD; it would simply indicate to the people inside
“Ccba that the KAP was utilising all resources to obtain the equipment
Beceasary’ to overthrow Castro. Meturally he wes not mtmalastic about
thie formia but he could Live acd cope uith it.

7. I told Ray that I would have te get in tcush with our military
people in order to find ost whether or not we now had exffictent data on
hand on which to base a decision. (Caments C/thi/h was briefed tale
Phorically by me on the foregaing and on additional arpecte of os
Weoting which are reported in part two of this Contact Report.
ead I felt that we cid not heve os yet oufficient data to mke Phat
Commitments; C/eH/y instructed me te advise Ray thats

. (a) Either the WP choold eubwit a detailed plen viich we
hogan yor pur baptog pod eles nian ata
whether to be of assistance or not ors

(>) The MRP could go it alone, end ask us for eome assistance
after the operation has been leached end we would make our
decieion then on the beais of existing circunstances.

brah ibray bemtirrital ede py aenioglieantiar dr dinerdia lgiecate
one ead that he would ingtruct Barquin to imodia
lin Micmi to work cut a coordinated operational plan.

. 8. Y thie paint af the necting I felt that the tise was rips to
make the $2500 payment (by Bender check) and to advieo Rey that ancther
87500 would de made available to nim via. Juen Paula, the PRD ocaptraller. I
Repeated what I hed said previcusiy sbout duplication and followed the
-tpproved lines contained in ny 19 Hovenber 1960 menorendum to C/ii/k. Rayte
a ead Chibas! resctions were not mexpected: they rajoctod this particular F
_ funding proposal. (Coments for additional detatle ead other itens covered - .
“daring this nesting seo parts two and three, "Contact Report, 22 Bovember,

« ‘Booting with Ray and Chibes.*)

: : : : ORRRD PROLLER : ae
CAau/Pa,
oDranb

Bistritetion: : . ae :
Crig- ca i
l-ae
2+ VP =
L-COM & CAWL/CRS (ret to PA)
Le afEr/a

cas

