# 104-10192-10133

## Page 1

104-10192-10133

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Noi Reproduce

ROUTING

concor to cards, t...

+148 83 849:949. c.coe

Due 10

in on es parin hea

"st ded. "

l:;

$R00M

ACTION . IW

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

INFO

DOP, A04P, SOD 4, DO 4, DO/M 3, CA 2, CA/PEG, CA/PHUP, CAVO, CI/OPS, CO/IC ?,

CI/PS, FI, FI/D,

FI/INT 6, RIVAL, WH/SA 12, WA 8, VR, FILE

P

Y

SECRET. 3122172

JAN 1 2483Z ES IN 52286

CIR

WHEN LIT ESCH MER CITE WAVE 6657

INTEL TIPIC

R

P

Y

SUPCATAS PARAZE AVDALM-4. PARAS 4-58 AMSWIRL-I IN UFKA-159.

AURALA ALSO SAID ZARRAGA IN TOUCH GO HARVEY SL181

SINGE OCTOCER AUGUT IN-ILTRATION.

ZARRAGA ASKED SLAM PROVIDE CRYSTALS

FOR RADIOS HE PLANS TAKE INSIDE SO THAT STATE CAN ALSE RECEIVE

TAND:ISSIONS FROM CULA, AS OF LATE NOV SUMI CLAIMED ME STILL CHECKING I

IF. RADIOS AND POINTED OUT FCC INVOLVEMENT, ERPERUSAL INTEREST. RIO:

FILED 3172177

CS Clamelticallon: !

108 1 68-9:1135°

BOR: 9

Pold: y

PEDOET CLASS CENTIOINTIAL CONTROLLED DISSEM

6s.8-

300 - 4

A Jo

CLINTRY: CURA

C'! : 1!" INENT INFILTRATION ATTEMPT DY CARLOS ZAFRANTI NITO

iN COMMENT

R

PS

5:

ABSTRACE

101-300-14

R

INDZX

P

101!5.9

12!

..8i

T0CS 08-315/00004-65

* ROUTINE

BASED ON

•PRIORITY

UFG 64163

RELEASING I WO

Else Fluggins.

DATE DISTRIDIO

NPIAMPALM-4,

1, JAN 1965

AMSWIRL.1

0923Z

LIAISON

7881389

. P.

HELLORD

RI COPY

EFNODUCTION DY

IS PROMISi

i39:

R

1

y

---

## Page 2

14-00000

•8-86 121-9Use Aprisusiditions

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

- SEGRET

ACTION

INFO

PAGE 2 IN 52286

LAS VILLAS PROVINCE

DOr: 7-29 DECEMBER 1964

PADA:

UNITED STATES, MIAMI (30 DECEMBER 1964)

UFG 6443

SOURCE: SEE PARAS 1 AND 3:

100 %

Ca ClaD.1100: 08

Mobe.+4+8460 1600068

iW COMMENT,

RELEASING I WO

DATE. DISTRIBUTED.

TDCS

TROUTINE

JASED ON.

1. SON.

EGUENDED

I PRIORITY

BUTONATIE:

SECRET

---

## Page 3

we belts.

CONFIDENTIAL

CONTRELLO DISSO.

ROUT IME

CENTRAL INTELLIOENCE AGENCY

Intelligence Information Cable

COUNTRY

CUBA

TDCSO8-315/00004-65

DATE OF

7-29 DECEMBER 1964

INFO.

DISTR I JA'NARY 1965

SUBJECT

R

VPIEIT INFILIRATION ATTEMPT INTO LAS VILLAS

PRUVINCE BY CARLOS ZARMIGA MARTINEZ

PPLACE&

•Y DATE ACQ. VUITED STATES, MINSI (30 DECEMBER 1964).

IN 52206

FIELD REPORT NO.

UFG 6443

SOURCE

AND

APPRAISALI SEE PARAS 1 APID 3.

R

R

R

P

Y

1: SOURCE FOR PARAT: A PRODUCER OF ALDO PROGRAM WIN MAS

BEEN INVOLVEO IN MITI-GACTRO ACITIVITIES SINCE 1555. SOURCE NAS

BEEN A SPORADIC GUT RELIALE REPORTER.

2. ON ¿D DECENDER DUE CARLOS ZAPRACA MARTINEZ, FORNER MENSER

OF THE JUITA REVOLEGIONAE IA CUBANA FUERE, CURAN CEVULUTICNITE JINTA),

SADO THAT ME AND FIV: CHILE CURAN EXILES TATEND TO INFULTEATS INTO

CURA MCFORE 3 JANUARY IDASO TI: PATE MIS SELECTED TO COIRCIDE •

WITI FAVORAULE MOON PHASES.

CARENZA SAID HE HAS NO GOATS,

ECTH UE WHICH ARE IN A CAPRICH. DR. ADEL AIXALA PERTIERRA WAS

MENTICHEO I CONNECTICH WITH THE DEATS: 115 IS EITHER PART OVER

Thie materal contains informaiinn apective tho Mabana Dolenso of uho Valsro Slales Dilisa sie mraatas el lse Hephnago Laws, itlo

18, UBC. Beca. T91 and g94, the tronamission of rorelatico of whieh in any anner to an unnulhorind perra la probiblied by law

CONFIDENTIAL

CONTROLLED BISSE

STATE/IN#

DIA ARAY/ACSI

NAVY

AIR

AD/CI ?

CIA/NMCC

FBI

IC$

SECDEF

NSA

NIC

LENS

TREASURY

USIA OCI ONE OFE

OuR 00:

USCG

CUSTOMS

P080 1 389

RI COPY LE

RI. COPY

R

. C

P

1391

---

## Page 4

14-00000

FLALBAUTA

e001+80869017 8000-

Bond

•BEFU 1 44 120)

IN 52286

DUCET MSTr

CONFIDENTIAL

TDCSUB-315/00004-60AGE 2

OF THE GOATS OR OF THE DRY DOCK: (FIFLO CONENT: THE GAME SOURCE

REPORTED IN TOCSDS-315/$1732, DATED 19 DECEMLER 1964,. THAT ZARRAGA

WAS PLANNINE AN INFILTRATION OPERATION INTO CURA. ANOTHER SOURCE,

HOWEVER, FEPORTED THAT AIXALA AND ZARRAGA WERE PLANNICS A RAID AGAINST

CUSA SOMETINE LETVEEN 2E DECENCER 1964 AND DE JANUARY 1955. AIXALA

HAD THE ARAS, A!M:UNITION, AND THE CREW LINED UP; HIS GOAT WAS TO BE

USED IN THE OPERATION.)

3. SOURCE FOR PARAS 4-5: A LOCAL LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER

•WHO IS WELL AGGLAINTED WITH MARITIME MATTERS IN FLORIDA: SOURCE

HAS SUBMITTED A LARGE NUMBER OF REPORTS BASED ON THE DEBRIEFING OF

CUBAN REFUGEES AND HAS BEEN A CONSISTENTLY RELIABLE REPORTER CN THE

PLANS AND ACTIVITIES OF ANTI-CASTRO GROUPS ENGAGING IN BOAT OPERATIONS.

4. AIXALA SAID THAT AS OF 7 DECEMBER ZAPPAGA WAS PLANNING

TO INFILTRATE INTO CUBA THROUGH REMÉDIOS, LAS VILLAS PROVINCE.

HE PLANNED TO TAKE WITH HIM VICENTE MENDEZ, PEDRO GAPCIA, HUMEEPTO

• SOLIS JURADO, JESUS HERNANDEZ, JUAN RUDRIGUEZ AND JORDE RIOPEDPE

MUNEZ. THE PURPOSE OF THE INFILTRATION WOULD BE TO START ORSANIZING

SOME OF THE CUERRILLAS IN LAS VILLAS AND ORIENTE PROVINCES. THE ONLY

WEAPONS THEY WERE GOING TO TAKE ALONG WERE THEIR PERSONA: WEAPONS,

A RIFLE AND PISTOL EACH AND THE AMUNITION FOR THESE ARIGO THEY

PLANNED TO USE AIXALA'S CATAMARAN WHICH WAS AT THE INTETNATIGNAL

MARINA, 2ES SA NORTH RIVER DRIVE, MIAMI.

5. ACCORDING TO AIXALA, SINCE MOST OF THE CUSAN EXILES FRE

VERY ANXICUS TO LIBERATE THEIR COUNTRY, THEY HAVE DECIDES THAT THE

CONFIDENTIAL

COMTROLLED DISSEM

---

## Page 5

TRALE LUTINIL.10UIE US ALTER

No!. !199

•ON BELIN

20298-40.99 B69l@ stitt

R

C

P

Y

MFO 1-64 17

IN 52255

e1d 8.5

-CONFIDENTIAL-

CONTROLLED DISSEN

TDCSOS -515:000:3-FBAGEZ,

LEST THINE FOR, THEM TO DU IS TO RETURN TO CUEA AND START ORVIZING

THE GUERRILLAS BSCAUSE NOTHING IS EXPECTED TO ES DONE SY THE UNITED

STATES. THE MEN WHO FOUGHT AS GUERRILLAS INSIDE CUSA HAVE RESIGNED

THENSELVES TO THE FACT THAT THE LEAST THEY CAN DO NOW IS TO RETURN

TO CUBA AND DIE IN THE ATTEMAT. TO LIBERATE THEIR COUNTRY.

6. FIELD DISSEM: CINCLANT, CINGSO, CONNWESTFOR, MIAMI REPS

OF STATE, FBI; CUSTOMS, ISNS, BORDER PATROL, AND USCG.

0e o

CONFIDENTIAL

CONTROLED DISSEN END OF MESSAGE

1084 1 389

pc- cm.

RI COPY

RI COPY

4331

---

