# 104-10124-10136

## Page 1

104-10124-10136

SECRET

I MORANDUN FOR CáeS

TearEre Tranch

DALE

NUDER: $7294,50

This niemorandu is to summurize security action

AFPRAISER: "• =

in the case of the Subject person in connection with application for employment as:

Title::

ISD intere:t

EAGSUROUND: Subject is 47 years of age and was born in the United States.

Subject's

father was born in

_. Subject's nother was born in

Only the following relatives are known to reside outside the United States or to be

citizens of another country: None

Subject attended

Brigh: Schonl

until 1932

Since then Subject's activities have been as follows:

32-12 privately employed:

12-46 U. S. Army

40-present, Los negles county Sheriff's Office

INVESTIGATIVE ACTION:

Investigative action by CIA consists of coverage as scheduled,

including contact with

0: listed references and_

developed references; including neighbors. (Far

Investigation curtailed in view of 1953 BI.)

NAC negative concerning Subject and spouse. File reviewed-ND.

h5n.

ASI records reflect a favorable BI of Subject in 1953. ECPET cleerance granted

11 lay 1953: 01 granted SEORET congrant in

• eupiciment of Suject

on 22 April 1955. TSS granted SECRET contest, ricars:ce 15 rosenber 1154. Sulject

placed in "Approved-Caution" category for contuct by 00 on & lovember 1954.

character, personality, associates or relatives: ione

a ject

$

S

Novembe

use ag

60-

YES

YES

NO

NO

reguested by TSP/ISS:

memorandim,

S0 9-2045

& UNKNOWN

SECREL

03.

---

