# 104-10192-10215

## Page 1

104-10192-10215

CASSH TO DO NO CCIEAETEEO

—24

FROM

M'*' LAWAVE

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

JURE

MIG 1.65

ROUTING

ACTION:

INFO:

DCI, D/DCI,

SOD 4,

C1/PS, FI, FI/D, FI/INT 6,

MATES, CUPID, EVOL, CHORS, CATER

AN INC 12, KH 8, VR, FILE, CS/RF.

29 MAY 65

2127Z

IN 79875

4p6

41FC-1222.

PINTEL TYPIC.:

SUPDATA: AMLATTER I ON 28 MAY FROM FRANK FIORINI, WHO TALKED TO

AYALON. DUE LOCAL OPS CLIMATE AND OPS SECURITY A-I DO NOT

USE FIORINI AS SOURCE OF A-%. NO TRACES ALAYON. LOPEZ MAY BE

IDENTICAL SUBJECT 281-73@151. RND PLS INDEX. FILED 2917432

REPORT CLASS CONFIDENTIAL CONTROLLED DISSEM NO FOREIGN DISSEM

R

ICU8A

(SUBJ: PRELIMINARY ACTIVITIES BY MIGUEL ALAYON FOR A BOMBING

RAID ON CUBA

D01: 28 MAY 65

MICROFILMED

JUN 4 1965

PADA: UNITED STATES, MIAMI (29 MAY 65)

C

P.

Y

DOC. MICRO. BER

I COMMENTI

Did i!T

гові-

List.

WH/C

WH/ REG

LAUNIE M. ZIEE

1008 1 389

R

1121

8

TDCSDB-315/01860-65

X | ROUTINE

PRIORITY

P

Y

BASED ON: UFG-7222

NO PROJECT (AMCLATTER- 1)

•DATE DISTRIBUTED:

29 MAY 1965

2358 Z

LAISON:

IN AUTORAT

SECRET

DECLASSIFICATION

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy No.

RI COPY

RI COPY

. ...

ilor

---

## Page 2

a lew Use doors sentes

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

AFG 1-65

ROUTING

FROM:

ACTION

INFO

lid d05

PAGE 2

IN 79075

UFG 7222

SOURCE: A MIAMI BUSINESSMAN WHO WAS A RESIDENT OF HABANA FOR SEVERAL

YEARS. THE SOURCE HAS CONTACTS WHO RECOGNIZE HIM. AS A CHANNEL

TO U.S. INTELLIGENCE. THIS INFORMATION WAS OBTAINED FROM AN

INDIVIDUAL WHO TALKED TO MIGUEL ALAYON.

TW COMMENT:

TDCS

ROUTINE

BASED ON

PRIORITY

DATE DISTRIBUTED.

RELEASING I WO

LIAISON:

ENCLUDIO FROM AUTOMATIC

mom had a broad.

DECLARBIFICATION

REPRODUCT V BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED. A

Copy No.

---

## Page 3

ADA0I49

FROM

ACTION

INFO

jutt

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

Pid l 85

NG 10S

ROUTING

* 5

PAGE 2

IN 79875

UFG 1222

SOURCE: A MIAMI BUSINESSMAN WHO WAS A RESIDENT OF HABANA FOR SEVERAL

YEARS: THE SOURCE HAS CONTACTS WHO RECOGNIZE HIM AS A CHANNEL

TO U.S. INTELLIGENGE.: THIS INFORMATION WAS OBTAINED FROM AN

INDIVIDUAL WHO TALKED TO MIGUEL ALAYON.

I COMMENT:

TOCS

ROUTiNE

BASED ON

PRIORITY

DATE DISTRIBUTED

RELEASING. I WO

LIAISON

GROUP!

ENGLUDIO IRON

AUTOMAT

AND

DACLASSIFICATION

REPRODUCT V BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PD-HIBITED..

Copy No.

---

## Page 4

MEO 11•89

CONFIDENTIAL

COUNTRY

CUBA

DATE OF

INFO.

28. MAY 1965.

IS POSEIGN DISSER CONTROLLED MARESA

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

Intelligence Information Cable

ROUTINE

TOCS D5-315/01860-65

DISTR. 29 MAY 1965

SUBJECT

PRELIMINARY ACTIVITIES BY MIGUEL ALAYON FOR A BOMBING

RAID ON. CUBA

PLACE &

DATE ACQ. UNITED STATES, MIAMI (29 MAY 1965)

- SOURCE

REF

IN

79975

FIELD REPORT NO. UFG 7222

A MIAMI BUSINESSMAN WHO HAS A RESIDENT OF HAVANA FOR SEVERAL YEARS.

SOURCE HAS CONTACTS NIO RECOGNIZE HIM AS A CHANNEL TO US INTELLIGENCE.

THIS INFORMATION WAS OBTAILED FROM AN INDIVIDUAL WHO TALKEU TO MIGUEL ALAYON.

1. JUST FRIOR TO 28 MY 1965, MIQUE ALATON, A CUTAMENLOS

AUS. A, Fia,

man.

WHO IS PLANNING TO BOMB A TARGET IN CUBA, PURCHASED IOR POUNDS OF

iris ill?

DYNAMITE, AT ONE DOLLAR A POUND, FROM ROBERTOILOPEZ MARRERO. .

irration sid.

ALAYON ALREADY HAS THE CASING FOR A IDE POUND BOMB, WHICH IS EQUIPPED

WITH A NOSE CONTACT FUSE: AND A REAR PERCUSSION FUSE; ALAYON, WHO

Sold les sounds

WENT TO KEY WEST, FLORIDA, ON 27 MAY, APPARENTLY TESTED SOME

•filmamite. to

OF THE DYNAMITE IN THE FLORIDA EVERGLADES AND DETERMINEO THAT I'M OL flapa

WAS GOOD.

2e 230187

2. AS OF 27 MAY, ALATON STILL DID NOT HAVE AN AIRCRAFT" FOR

CONFIDENTIAL

STATE/INA DIA ARMY/ACSI NAVY AIR SES SECDEF NSA

EXO

KAD/CI 2, CIA/NICC, FBI, ISNS, TREASURY, COAST GUARD, SORDER GUARD, FAA, CUSTOMS

---

## Page 5

14-00601

#PLA 8 99 11

CONFIDENTIAL

IN 79075

IS FORCIN DISSON COMIROLIED DISSEN IN

TDC98-315/01860/ Blos2

PURPOSES OF THE SOMBING RAID. THE DATE OF THE FAID WAS UNKNOWN.

3. LOPEZ IS A MEMBER OF THE "12 AVENUE OFFICE" OF THE FRANK

PAIS ORGANIZATION, WHICH IN TURN IS A BRANCH OF THE MOVIMIENTO

REVOLUCICNARIO 38 DE NOVIEMBRE (30 NOVEMBER REVOLUTIONARY MOVEMENT),

TELEPHONE 371-9242 (FIELD COMMENT: THIS NUMBER WAS NOT LISTED IN

THE SEPTEMBER 1964 EDITION OF THE NUMERICAL DIRECTORY FOR GREATER

MIAMI). LOPEZ DRIVES A 1955 BLUE AND WHITE CHEVROLET WITH FLORIDA

TAGS 1-167575.

4. FIELD DISSEM: CINCLANT, COMAWESTFOR, CINCSO, MIAMI REPS OF

STATE, COAST GUARD, BORDER PATROL, IANS, FAA, CUSTOMS AND FBI.

END OF MESSAGE

CONFIDENTIAL

... . IN FORETEN ASSEM/CURIOLLED ASSEA

---

## Page 6

CONFIDENTIAL

IN 79075

NO FORCIEN DISSCH/CONTROLIED DISSEM

'IN

TDCSDB-315/01860/ BAGs

PURPOSES OF THE SOMBING RAID. THE DATE OF THE RAID WAS UNKNOWN.

3. LOPEZ IS A MEMBER OF THE

"IZ AVENUE OFFICE" OF THE FRANK

PAIS ORGANIZATION, WHICH IN TURN IS A BRANCH OF THE MOVIMIENTO

REVOLUCIONARIO 30 DE NOVEMBRE (30 NOVEMBER REVOLUTIONARY MOVEMENT),

TELEPHONE 371-9242 (FIELD COMMENT: THIS NUMSER WAS NOT LISTED IN

THE SEPTEMBER 1964 EDITION OF THE NUMERICAL DIRECTORY FOR GREATER

MIAMI).: LOPEZ DRIVES A 1955 BLUE AND WHITE CHEVROLET WITH FLORIDA

TAGS 1-167575.

4.

FICLO. DISSEM: CINCLANT, COMKWESTFOR, CINCSO, MIAMI REPS OF

STATE, COAST GUARD, BORDER PATROL, INS, FAA, CUSTOMS AND FBI.

CONFIDENTIAL

END OF MESSAGE

" .

NO FOREIGN DISSCH/CURROLLED DISSEM

---

