# 104-10196-10042

## Page 1

(2700L-96101-V0L

CONFIDENTIAL

ЗНЕЇ

2.8$

piseny

•-zal 1et0i3.

ma-saini by amadchsriscd iarecas.

coron" called "raisienl socsrit)."

•Ru Gilio do Chadul cnacgtto sa

icaiadon ears.ritiod didctrisa"

miãn coo ls rciphrod a ualstodi dind f antianiao teroors, coronly

cini "comnicchlons sosir

corion aliiles Of phisica? soouity

-d aaG5,

aad seatristed dlsconiration.

Saamgdos

Tc jit, sn hic nd rentr cg toni

ind Lucinicanln butroon lio tis -tasái.

anziom securitg nocventei.

Sccsc2

to incoratio. mhir chii covantud thosa mno listore: to radis

on viro alccurical traroniaciors con indorstamdin, tie infos-ition.

dicrircion is bocorir;

This

auáral noio Ciccacult to maie as technolo-oaà

alancos mo met ir. aoth aikii.

¿or sarnlo, tierg are ricrpboms aad

00:.0°

sy doa" diricos

10u aruantio iii mos only jemis ore s0 bisten

io contursation ins foor, buunud is ssinai" oo ascighor the cresptior

25512:

In cut 000: and cararo ao donias at iscstions arguri zhe nsrld.

§garato organizations, ho:urao, na dorcumaui giu: shese tuo aspacts os

1e 0b201.

-CatIors S-ci

asautir Gráur 16501, v..

wis dha. d1i S÷.

itui! tirod tinia. ii n.n.

isoibion, i

Cituiid iu ?

0a:1a.e

C 254,

iJ".

".ir.":

Ean:-ioss.

Co Eico=aà

incalog md oo sid, agproves

cano mies:

ag daid, tüv!,

20327315255A

ricority Eassd

saiid, mürarse.

"Sig dau);

w cocurié ds "Execubivo Agont si in

CONFIDENTIAL

GIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

„RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMEN:

30 Sop 14

---

## Page 2

14-00000

CONFIDENTIAL

Co Advised that NSA "shall act for the Executive Agent In all

COISEC matters set forth belor" - primarily responsibilities for estab-

I1ching adequate standards;

dest me do to conse to protect reason one man e

be derived fron the postession and atudy of telecomunications, or to

molead unauthorized persons in their Interpretation of the resulte of

such a study".

e Defined telocommunications as "any transmiscions, emicsion or

reception of sigo, signale,

sriting, imoges and sounde or intelligence

of say nature by vire, radio, visual or other electromagnetic system".

NSA prescribes Government wide standarde for the means of encryption

equipments, codes or other techaiques - and only those approved by NSA

nay be used for the encryption of clnusified Information. NSA also

develops equipents where required. COMSEC eguimente are available

today to encrypt add standard comunications nethods - telephones,

reletypewriter, high spced data,

televicion (black and white only), even

computer-to-conputer tronsmissions.

However, Non has no authority to reguire encryption; the reguirement for

encryption is left to the agency head under the EO 10501-

Moreover, they

are positively prohibited trom monitoring telecamunicationa to deterine

wnetber classified Information is being revealed unless the agency head

concerned approves in advance.

To dute, there are no lnon telecomunications techniques which would

feralt uncrcrupted (clear) Information to be transmitted care tra inter

ception and fras being read by unauthorized fersons. As a result, the

I S. COMSSC Board and NSA make the assumption that all unencrypted tele-

cormunications are being monitored and that the information being trans-

While this 1s a physical Impossibillty, there can

be no assurance that any particular transalssion is not being Intercepted

and read.

Therefore, liSt will assume no responsibility for the security

of cormunications which are not encrynted in an an roved cryptosyster.

The White House Co-munications Agency (WICA) 16 responsible for, providing

ell telecomications for the President und iu the inite House, except

for corrunications to and fros the President's aircroit (Air Force I),

which are the respoasibility. Of the A1- Force. Wiid 16 orennizationally

under the Defense Communications Agency (DCA) - Tre WiCA program has not

been reviewed by the Bureau.

Kenneth O'Donnell provides policy guidance

to the WICA and has Inforned the DOA that no Inio mation on the size,

progran, or budget of the WiCA lo to be revealed vitaout his authority.

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 3

CONFIDENTIAL

3

There 1e a very close working ruintionstig between WilCA nd iSi on all

aspects of casac, including possible

as

discussed below.

Horever, WICh kas an I-possible task in aticapting to

provide secure communicatiqne for tic Presideat so 10ng as be lises the

commercinl telephone system. Valess Mich can be Inforned of me specitie

locations and people to who the President wishes to tulk abovi sensitive

are not. being = Itored.

are invuired, erypto equippent cas be quicily brought to ts locations

where a teletype capability exists. Crypto cquipments cannot son be

Installed for secure voice transmissions over the comercial telephone

syster®

Comprovising Esanations.

The above describes the traditional CO:eC problen where there 1s little

relationahip to the "physical security" probles, except insolar as

physical security 1s required for the cryptograchic equijsent. In addi-

tIon and sore closely Interrelated with the physical cecurity probler 1s

the problen of "compromising emanations" or radiation. Brierly, these

are electrical or acouctic signals enating from clectronic and electro

mechanical equippentes.

If these sigauls eun be Intercepted, It 1s possible

to read the information reing processed by the equipent.

To protect against this darger, the U. S. CO:SEC Board has approved

(with concurrence by all concerned agencies including the Buresu) ISA

electrieal standards for all electronic or electro-nechenical equiprents

(camputers, trpewriters, etc.) which process classifica information.

Bach agency processing classified intoration

tarougà equipments is responslble for insuring that their equizents seet

the standard.

A special subcamittee of the USCSS monitors this progran and arovides

guidance dud assistance to the concerced agencies. As night be expected,

new oîfensive techniques are constantly being discovered walch require

additional defensive precsutions. It is in tils field that tre Ine

between ca tunications eecurity aal mysical security get raaj.

Physical Security

The tero "ihysical security" has trajizicully been ussocluied with saies,

guards, and fences. lorever, witin the miroat oi sophisticated eictronie

eavesaropping terragues, nost agencies hur expanded tine piysica: security

role iu provide protection against. unauthorized access to closs"ried or

censitive incomation either by peopie or by devices. " rido

awareness on the threat posed by clandestine listening di... , we isc,

1n Decenher 1955, establisbed e Srecial Carie on lecialcai surveillance

---

## Page 4

14-00000

CONFIDENTIAL

3-.:3=540ce

Chü Corastsa,.

aartsrasa ci serreel, dco ead a ou catend di beato,

2oio= alda:

covament iecil1tics or guarterso

U. Ectublishing und.coordinatina policios with respoct to counierlns

wis thrcut.

I conittec muts it leact eoathly ard cubrits annual reports to the iisc

cn its cetirlties oad findinec.

Trer: is a closs relationsaly lotieen

his co:alütse ard tho tnóns conitue on cospic-lslag emuratioas - 1r

iuct, there are a nuiker oi Iralviduale uno sit on tota.

Ensà agcncy 10 rasgonsible fos carrying out its om tecrnical survelllazee

motiono witala viutover como jolicy guid:llmns are cotablishcd by ti

i0 canátice (axainini, cauiimanó to be ucca, ctc.)

io clandectina covices ot any cind tuve ruca diccovarcá in the U. S.

altacuch osdo 100 vere dlocoverad in j. S. Iccilitloo overucas batrcen

1849 tod 190d0

An siultical 4j0 voro ciccovered in Iolendly forclen

avurcous cacilitles cctreen 15i5 and 1950.

C0:23301038

ü dia dcaling vsta tio cupuncäne (buü in cono imiinco interrclated)

mublaas dalor in arantico ln Dijento, Cãi uua Curca concitiva ajoncios

invoivo tuo cindo cl Orc-irzurioas.

ioyae terecaee aeat elrc teteuy cercet)s und finysicul

I: tho dicin O9 CO:OC0, tica: ddradéd cminto é chrar assichino 0i

reosoaclullly to too Sceratury di Euiorao du itecholes agont ci üovornont

Iactcrie

Ire jacrotay cnurciono his racnoncisiiior uhrouga

tLi, reconizeà by all uo a bij ly eoicc nd üciaical agancy in tais

tiocdo

Ira Cecrotamy reccites bifcn iniice tioa on interaruncy bourd

(iuOSs) Mica Rde LSCa 2U12ÄJ GSctO LEu CÉTUCtirS LO0 s0S EirpoJC.

So tded oot reree o cecnera cno deu ced sertoas ara sassod

on=isa=1-1 üue Cuce 1n Foiro, wa ba_ic:

1crouid le ctaropriato ior tie

tikcn

saca (iio ümig i0r cho Facáaino) to rucuast tie Secratare o

RCRÓS IO POrE lCi PORC" 2

evalaste dha Rucidont's Pozicaaezicatioas

icapiiisg

Eciuiegdo totà I, anà to decCumná actions t0 incrov

iin tro: caomn incnns in Caalnctlca 02 úll cguirments waich

Pssids clcicitleà incozitáu to Incure tiit no Iniorration Juy se

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 5

1d-0n0d

CONFIDENTIAL

- 82002i

5

availablo to unautharizod pursons throug "comprorisiry emanations. *

For a thorough ovalia. ion,

1t rao to ruissary, li cha inito House dosires,

to requose iSA to monitor Mite lousy communications on a sampling baals

and aivise the inito Houso al the results.

On the ratter of clandostino listonir: dovleca, mo "So Spocial Co-mittac

on Techaical Survelllance Countermeasuros should da charged with assessin

the adequacy of the Sucret Sorvica procedures, equipment and lovel of

tochnical skill, and rocomnanding any chargos recessary to attain tha

highest practicabio lovol of porforranco.

¡o boliara tho Socrat Servico has tho rosponsibility lor protecting tha

Prosidential estabiistront against clandostire dovices since thuy suport

the Bureau on roquost. Thoy are not members of tha con-itted and, so

lar as to can datermina, thuy do not rocaive committea roports nor do they

contributo information to tha comitico.

As a continuing mattor, they

should bo mado a membar of tho commitioe.

Reconeniod action:

1, That Mi. Sundy issue a lsn' providing that the Sacrotary of

as Exocutive Agaiu for all comunications i curity raitors, will

direct ist to conduct a survoy and mala a ropori on tid adaquacy of presont

comminications security moasuros in o'fect at the inito rouse, including

non-crypio concunications.

2.

That Mr. Bunly arrange through the "so sposiai Commitioo on

Teohnical Suvoillarso Countormoasuas to sucwo i ravion and roport on

maasures in offact at the hito lousa to raintain suridiiiince and protoc-

tion agairst clandascina listoniry covicus.

3.

that both roports bo revioned by the Frisiont's Conniitco on the

warran Saport, augrantod by Dr. Hornig and Goraral d'Correll (012), for

advice

ani recormondstion to the Brasicant.

PEGRET

CONFIDENTIAL

---

