# 104-10173-10087

## Page 1

104-10173-10087

J UNCLASSIFIED

SUNECT: Oniimal

FRCHl

EID/CE•

• US

TO: N

• rorere roopuntioe, entell

1.

ditn Cal Tenney

CI STAFF X50085 2 B 46

CI STAFT 2 C 35

RID/CE: -

Att:

• GA-10

03

CONFID"YTI"""

L SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

NEY TORK

DATE

RECO

AWD'D

7 MAY 1964

NO. CSCI-3/781,263

DATE 6 Miay 1964

COAMENTS u be oeo do soloma ot el ooa lecm mbas

OVIPCENS

INITHALS.

jrstio

..S hlais

Sm

RETURN TO CIA

Background Jse Only

Do No: Roproduce

RID/AY GA 50

Ri/mis

7.

3.

10:

TO:

PSB/CSC

CALE TITLE

•13.

1S.

500 2= 13 4003

PORAA

ORAE SS O10 SPPONOUS

4280-88

FILE NUNBER

201-

271 710

XSCLOSUDE

SECRET

LICONFIDENTIAL

INVERAL

AS& ONLY

DOSTRAGTISE

INDEN

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECRET

7 MA: 106.0

Attention®

Deputy Director for Plans

SUBJECT: RANTOR, NervIn

I. Roforence la nado to the request dated 7 April

196d concerning Subjoot.

The files contain the following

According to a report dated 21 April 1901 from

a rollable source, roflecting Subject's oun statomonte,

Matula KANTOR, born 9 May 1931 In Now York City, wan a

atudent of Rusalan and Russian Literature at the Univer

Sity of Copenhagen fron 1967 to 1961:

Durtag this period,

Subjeet travoled

from Donnark to the USSh twico on a vla

itor's vlea

losued to. hin to v1s1t hle uncle in Minak.

The firat trip covered the period 31 May • 9 July 1968g

the second, ? June - 8 September 1959.

As a result of

the procossing. of Subject's application for a vina to the

USBR An. 1958, ho bocane Iriendly with a Soylet Intolligence

(state Socurity) officor at the sortet Inbrasy Aduntified

in our Illes as belonging to the Soviet Intolligonco (State

-Security) Service/ In Coponhagen.

Ostensibly in connection

with Subjoot'a vies application.

he gave this offloer a

statement concerning his background and relatives in the

USA and UsSA.

During Subjoct's stay in Minik In 1958, bo

was viaited approximately four times by an Individual who

aLated Coat no via Kram a

"ainiatry."

Tals individual

naver attempted to recruit lubject for intelligenoo port;

homover, he did suggest that subject co operate in an

notive atrustle for peace.

Altbough Subject statod that

ho proforred not to see him, Subjoct felt that i refusal

miubt lond to trouble for hin relatives la the USSR, con-

sequently, he passively agreed to this Individual'

general

Idens.

Upon his jeturn to Copophagen, however;

subjoet mr

mnod his association with the ofiicer fron the Soviet Embasay;

and in February 1959 began a clandestine noting synten with

han.

At this time Subject wan agnin requested to submit

written statenonts concerning his Iriends and student ac

ES COPY

FILE IN 201-279710

SEGRET

mind PEB

261-279710

---

## Page 3

SECRET

quaintancos,

all under the protere of raining another

vien to the

USSE.

In Jano 1959 Subjoct arain travalad

to Minsk, and, dirdog the regiatration procoss at the

Sovlet OVIR(Offico of Visa and Huglatration), he mot

nother individunl who requestod bin to write yet anothor

suimary concerning his background.

In addition, this

Individual saked bin nuorous questiona, spoke at great

longts about peace, and offered him money

that he knew it wis rough for a studont da the grounde

Subjoct re-

portodly refusod the offer, and following thin ancounter

uns vlalted regularly by the official fron tho "niolatry"

(ao0 "bove), who, toward the and of July, Inyltod him to

n hotol where they were net by the individual Subjoct bad

met at the ovIl.

Durins this noting the individual frow

OVIR: Identifled himself as i roprosentativo of an latol..

Liganco service,

and mado an obvious attempt to rocruit

Subjeat.

Tho latter was requested to sign'a loyalty plodso

to tho

effect that he was. to collaborate wittingly with

Boviet Intolligance.

Ho rofusod, and, although an argument

onauod, to physical prosauro or throats vere appilod.

Sub-

ject did not

so, the Intelligence mn agatn.

At the Intor

national clul,

roturn to copenhagen

counterod another emploree of the Bovlot Embassy (Who bas

also been

Identifled as s Bovlot Intelligence (3tato Su-

curity) Officor/ with whom ho conversed unally in the

pronenco of othor students.

Towards the end of Novembor

1909; this Soviet esployoe effected a reunion between

Subject and the officer of the soviet Imbnasy whon Subject

had mot

earltor

The Inttor attempted to dismias the

previouly mentioned abortod

rocrustment effort in Minsk

no maunderstanding.

Botween Novembor 1959 and Apr1)

1960, Subjeot hold a few street comer meetings with the

Soviet Intolliganco 0ff1car..

On different occasions the

Intter requested lis to: s. rid himself of his passport

becaule of the mmy Soviet bloc vinas which 1t containod;

b. accept dellvery of letters fron England to ba turned

over unopened to sondone else, and e.

ront an upartment

where Subject would tavite bis Amrican Irlonds to meet

bowlots. Subject reportodly retused those requeste.

In

April 1960 Bubjoct was Introduced by the offleer to another

Soviet who was to be Subject's now contaot.

Subject not

his new contact approximately four additional tinos, but

refused requests for writton statements about bis atudent

irlonds.

3.

According to s report dated 8 May 1001 from the

samo rollable source, and, açain reflecting Subjact's

statements, the officor Iron tho

Soviat Erhassy

In Copan

hagon save Subjoct a bottle of whistoy and two Fuglish

SECRET

660W T

Earpted tras sotrent

PACTAREIPENAD

---

## Page 4

SECRET

Innguago books to be dolivored to ono BRARIFT In Noscow

during the course of Subject's trip to the USSE In 1958.

Subject dolivered the gifts as dirocted and was asked by

SHRIFT, & nonber of the staff of tho Moscoy News, 1f ho

was interested in irstlug a short article for that pubilen

fion concorning his Inproenions of Minak.

Subject agraed

and vrote two handuritton pagos stating

that he had 'been

tarorably impressed by what appearod to be Minsk's rapid

growth and roconstruction.

He recoived 500 rubles for

his efforts for which' he simed a receipt.

It is not

nown wbother the article was ever publlahod.)

with one Willian STANSMITi, an Anurican oltizon born about

Living In Denmark witbout a residence permit, STEIN.

JUTH bađ sold pro CASTRO and anti-hest articlos to the

local Danish roas and had boon in contact with the local

Cuban Charge d' Affatros,

• Gabilol CALAFORRA Salas-

Iattor was know for his rabid Castroian and strong anti

Amerioan feelings.

For further inforation concerning Subjoct, you

are referred to the Voderal Bureau of Invostigation and to

the Department of State •

CSC1-3/781,283

Kncl: 1 anne check

RID/CE: JHA/MAN/dcl

Based on: 22C0SSA710344

22 /09SA-10382

22 ODCA(9633

(201-279710)

CSCI-3/775,757 to State

17 April 63 Sub.as above.

SECRET

Diete da Ba

104-279710

"3/A.J.

---

## Page 5

4-00000

8.-APM1954

OLMSTEAD

4- 7-6l

KANTOR, Marvn

(104N)

59 -31

Now 80rk, NY

N.Y.HZT!

MFERARON

Dof

BIỆNH N HAY NGÀ NING

LVÉ T 1

SEMONADINI COOR

KHUTIALS

DV.

BRANCH

olnn

K: EDNO"

FILE IN 201-229716

8

APR 1964

Gickst(+ 6561-3/781263

ES COPY

IMAy6y

201-279710

---

