104-10067-10417|

Da NRECTOR: OF CENTRAL SC inrewicenc>

eo.
WASHINGTON, D, C. 20505
OLC 79-0113/n
19 March 1979
Office of Legislative Counsel -

Mr. G. Robert Blakey 7
Chief Counsel and Director .
Select Committee on Assassinations
House of Representatives
Washington, D.C. 20515

Dear Bob:

Herewith ace comments on the Nosenko draft.

In commencing, it should be noted that Tennent Bagley remains
under cover, retired abroad. We are obliged to honor that cover, i
which he has not moved to have modified. ‘to expose his true
status as a former CIA employde could have repercussions in his
present situation that we must accept as significant. When he
was here in November 1978, he was advised of steps necessary
to remove his cover, in the event he decided to go overt in this
matter; he took no steps to alter his cover status. "It remains
classified. We therefore request that the example set in the |
Hart testimony, of referring to Mr. Bagley by the title of Deputy 1
Chief, SB Division, be followed in this draft. '

Following are detailed comments:
NOSENKO

Testimony of Nosenko

Cixcled Page 3, lines 14 aria-17, deoentine on how one counts.
KGB agents should read KGB officers... .

Circled Page 4, lines 3 through 20. Suggest the following
rewrite:

‘here were two factors, however, that limited the value
of the information supplied to the Committee by these
ex-KGB officers: 1) neither had been assigned to the
‘same KGB Directorate as Nosenko, and 2) one of .them had
information about the KGB that was outdated.

Cixeled Page 6. NosefiKo's actual testimony, last response. Suggest
changing word “defectionist” to "defector."

_ Page 6, line 6. Delete "woman in Utah" and insect "individual." i

Page 6, lines 20 and 21. Delete "and even was a co-op from CIA."



Page 32, line 12. Delete cryptonym AEDONOR.

Page 32, lines 20 and 24-25. Delete name |"thoras A. Ryan"] and
substitute "James Michaels.” E

Page 33, lines 1-3. Delete|/fhoras A. Ryan’ and insert "James C.
Hichaels" and “Janes Michaels" respectively.

Page 37, line 8. Delete name ["Ryan"| ané substitute name "Michaels."
Page 38, line 23. Delete name "Deryabin" and substitute "Y."
Page 43, lines 8, 14, 16, 21, and 22. Name should be "Fedoseyev."

and substitute name "Michaels."

Page 48, line 24. Delete name ["Ryar

Page 51, line 5. Delete| land insert "U.S. Government
property outside the Washington area.”

‘Third page of statement made by Nosenko to HSCA 8/7/78, last
paxagraph. Suggest placing month "October" in brackets after "November" to
reflect correct date (we realize Mr. Nosenko gave this date, but it is
incorrect).

Solie Testimony

Page 56, line 17. Statement should read, "The transcript will
reflect I asked him to prepare it in his om words on a previous day,
a day or two before."

Page 58, line 9. "Assuming"-hot "assing.”
Page 59, Line 23, Délete "h-uh" and substitute “yes.”

Page 66, line 20. Delete cénina “and "by ‘down there” and substitute
"and by SR.”

Page 69, line 11. Even though Mr. Klein undoubtedly used the word
"agents", the word "officers" should be there.

Nu Tes'

- Introduction. Date on line 4 is wrong; should be 1964-67.

Pages nunbered 4 and 5, Lines 24-25 and line 5, respectively.
Sdlie not Soley. a twee

+ Page 20, line 22. change "propose" to "expose."

oe



)

Michaels Testimony

Deposition of ffom Ryan] (Michaels). ‘Throughout this deposition,
the name "Michael" is used. The formally registered alies was
"James C. Michaelis" with a final "s."

Page 5, line 7. Delete "Polish" and substitute "East European."

Section #6 Entitled "Letters of CIA of 9/1/78 and FBI of 1/8/79"

Second page of response to Question #3, second paragragh. "In 1976
Nosenko was paid $10,000..." Date should be changed to 1978. Our error.

Bagley Testinony ,
Page 7, line 32 of Bagley's prepared statement and page 25, line 16

of his testimony. Substitute "allied service" for|

Typewritten Report
Page 52, line 5. Change "CIA Staff" to "CI Staff."

Page 71, line 25 and Page 72, line 1. Delete "or the Soviet
military intelligence." This indicates targetting priorities.

Page 97, lines 14 and 20. Suggest insert (sic) after "agents."

Page 99, line 23. The existence of a Station ir
is clearly indicated. Suggest put in brackets [in West EOrOpey~

Page 110, line 13 and 19." Suggest délétion’ of "American/american's."

Page 122, line 17. "A" on Angleton.

Page 127, lines 18 and 19. Delete "several other Soviet intelligence
people who were’ in touch with us in one way or another." .

Page 134, line 18. Suggest brackets after "five years" with dates
1962-67 inserted since mr. Bagley had no control of Wosenko case after
October 1967. Otherwise it may appear that Mr. Fithian was referring
to the years 1964-69. ~F

Page 138, line 12. Change "our foreign liaison agents" to read

* "foreign Liaison officials.. oe

Page 138, line 13... Change "him" to-"them.”



1 understand from your: conversation with Rodger that you would
welcose a letter from the Agency, on this section of the report,
for inclusion with it in the final report. Could we have more
details? oa a

It is understood that this is the last paper we will see that has
not already been reviewed. As you know, we are ready to follow-up
in a meeting with you on the substantive comments already provided
you.

Very truly yours,

S. D.“Breckinriage
Ls / Principal Coordinator, HSCA

Distribution: i
Orig - Adse
7 = SA/DDCI

1 - Rininger, Gc

1 - Sullivan, os

1 -Gednaoud, Dc/cr

1 ~ Holmes

1 OLC/Subj

1 ~ OLC/Chrono
OLC/SDB/ksn (19 Mar 79)

006.387

