# 104-10183-10196

## Page 1

104-10183-10196

SECRET

03

DATE 26 Aug-El

REPORT ON DEVELOPNEST OF AN INCOMING SIV MESSAGE

Division or Branch: Ma/SA/se

• 10:

(Field Units Use Pseudo)

Report on the Development of SW Message #-

Hailed from

_ From AMLASH/1 (Agent Crypto)

_ 10 ф

Date Letter -

Postmark -

- Rec'd Lab 25 AuE 64

1. It is requested that the Case Officer examine the visible correspondence for content and appear

ance, in order to assess its effectiveness as a cover for the SW message.

2 Results of the Techaical Examination:

a Did the envelope appear to have been opened in transit? Hot receded

b. Was any evidence of the SW visible prior to development?

3. Technical Corments:

Ha st present

4 Technical Suggestions To Be Relayed to the Agent:-

103

Submitted by:

(Field Units Sign in Pseudo)

Photocopies of the letter and envelope and a photocopy or transcript of the developed SW messag

are transmitted herewith

Form 60-1 (IN)

Revised Feb. 1963

SECRET

drongred and deserferina

---

## Page 2

TAANSLATION

(undatod):

(rocaired it

Hga

"on

25 August 1964)

(received by AWHIrl on

21 Auguat, at liêu York)

Dear friend Carloes-

06

Istoritas care no a slit fron you; I sharod 16 with (larzo.) I tas vor

glad to have rows of you, because I have not had any answer to my lotter, whioh

I knou you receined in Pirta.

Nor, I would Ilka to ank you to holp me solvo a problem - ond thatri

very important to me. The 16td lational isombly of Surgeons will to hold in.

In which I work at.

Mardoo fros 15-21 November. A group of doctors la the department/sl the Comandarito

Fajardo Hoapital have beon Invited to attend this Assembly. I should alao like to

attond;.

saboy and I roally noed to. I have been infornally invitad by a Horiean surgeon

who visits our hospital tro or thres times a year, but he haan't end me passago

(the fars). In addition, I don't think it would be very easy tor me to got a

Vion. II, with the help of your "friends" you could 1) get no invited 2)eand no

passage money and 3) send mo a visa - all throe via the Mexican Labassy in Cube,

80 1

I can go.

Well, hope to so you in lesdico in Norembar, so until then.

As soon as you receive this, write me no that I shall know you have this

lotter - of, call no and said "Yes" of iNo" about thia matter.. whether 1t can be

solved fron there. I can try to arrange things here - but there le no certainty.

that I should bo able to get a Moxican visa, Besidos, I mould have to tate care

of soes of these "doinga" in the Ministry (Cobernacion?), and that's never easy.

06

Carlos, then you can, pick up a suall package that I send you via your

---

## Page 3

14-00000

cousin Ivan tos

Sanore Mabel Arango

305 S. Ho Ith Torreco, Apt. 12

Kiant;. Florida

06

Po P. So - Brom (Karso) (0100):

Ipianias saya. that 1t would help a lot to settle the thinga youre

both talled about 11 Ventura euro to Cuba for a reek or tro. There are

several Itous that he sould have to see personally, and talking of them la

not the sang as sosing thes.

If he coses, he could ruturn son he wants to - that has alroady

boon decided on here.

I rocoired Fopinis faro seria timo ago.

06.

---

## Page 4

..T

Querido uniRo Carloo!

0)

ocibi por via de Iglesias un rogulo tuyo, el çual comperti con/Mirto.

ucho m alegro el tener noticias tuyas púes no he tonido aun respuesta a tu car

que si se que rocibiste an Paris.

Ahora tongo Intores en que so ayuda a resolver un problema que tione pur

1 en tiportancii:y es el atjuiente: Del 15 al 21 de Noviemore so celebrara er

Maitto La XVI Asambles Nacional de Cirujanos.

En ol Departamento del Hoepital Cuto, Fajardo dondo yo trabajo heraldo.

Invitado un grupo de Medicos los culos asistiran y yo tongo pren intoros y necesidad

de asistir lo he sido tivitido Inferialiento por un cirujano lejicano que 1os

maita 2 o tres vecgi al ano, sero ol no no manda paraje y ademas la visa no creo sea

muy facil que se la consiga: Si es que con tus algos resuelro que l) se no lerito,

2) me enten pasaje 3): ne envion la vias, y todo esto atravos de la Embajada de Mardeo

Bueno, espero verte en Magico en Roviembre asi es que hasta pr

Teri pronto recibil esta iscribene pera Jo sube 8l la recibloto o llamame

por telefono y me dice SI or NO de rasuelve porque yo puedo tretar de resolverlo

«qui paro no tengo seguridad por la visa Mejicana y adenas tengo que correr algunos

traitos en el Hiristerlo que glospre no son laciles.

Un abraro,

Rolando

0]

P. Do do(derzo?)

Carlitos, erando puedas pasa a recoger un paquetito que te

envío por encargo de tu prino Ivan, y que se halla en la

direccion siguiente:

Sra. Habel. Arango

305 S. W. 9th Terrace, Apt. 12

Klant, Plorida

P. Do doly1ca Iglestas que soria de mucha utilidad que Ventura Viniese a

pasarse uns semana o dos, pues, asi resolveria mucho de lo que

conversaron las. dado que exioten varios renglones que tendría

ali que verlos personalmente, pues, no es lo miano verlos que

S1 el vínioso podra regresar cuando lo deseo, pues, aso y esta

resualto por esta parto.

tiin

---

