# 104-10218-10009

## Page 1

104-10218-10009

(ZILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME:

BINTERIAL REVIENED AT CIA HEADQUARTERS BY

HOUSE SELECT CONMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MENDERS

(TICHSORN)

2001-253203

VOL. 1/

INCLUSIVE DATES:-

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:

ROOM:

DELETIONS, IF ANY:

DATF:

RECEIVED

18 Sti

DATE

RETURYED

REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME)

SIGNATURE. OF REVIEWING OFFICIAI

NO DOCLSIENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE

---

## Page 2

14-00000

LASSIFY TO VILE NO.

A-DEE TO FILE NO.

FILE BIDD

REY. TO BRANCH D

DESTROY O S16.

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

PERSON/ UNIT NOTIFIEO

BET AT

REPRODUCT IÓN PRONIBITES

ACTION

TAFO

Eve 8

I RID COPY

ADVANCE COPY

Issure

, VR, 0053, CSPS, OP2, DO Y

2011

NUMIT

B+

SECRET 141003Z CITE

DIRECTOR

REF: DIRECTOR 13385

B OSMA 22,778

1. TICHBORN DEPARTED MADRID 12 JULY FOR BIRCELONA.

RETURNING WOLADY VIA PARIS ARRIVING 16 JULY:

2. TICHBORN WILL PREPARE FULL REPORT IN WOLADY.

STATION POUCKED REFERENCE 8 14 JULY COMMENTING IN SOME OF

GUESTIONS RAISED REF A. INCLUDES DISCUSSION OF SUITABILITY

WUSALINE COVER FOR

3. CONSIDERING SHORINESS OF VISIT BELIEVE TICHBORN

DID VERY COMMENDAELE JOB, THOUGH ONLY SCRATCHED SURFACE SOME

"ARGETS.

CONSIDER TICHBORN IRIP WORTHWHILE.

4.

ETA HEADQUARTERS CITY 27 JULY. SUGGEST

HEADQUARTERS OFFICERS POSIPONE DISCUSSIONS WUBRINY/1 AND

TICKBORN UNTIL ARRIVAL REFERENCE B.

SECRET

BT

14Ju67N11548

RESKET

NNNN

261-253263

---

## Page 3

1d-0d0d

30 June 1967

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Edward G. TICHBORN - Cover Company Listing of

Operational/ Travel Costs

i 1.

• li

1. On 22 June 1967, WH/6 received an informal listing from

TICHBORN (first requested in April 1966) which was made by the

accountant (unwitting) of TICHBORN's expenses for travel and enter-

tainment during the period 1 October 1966 - 31 March 1967. These 'fi

expenses were incurred by TICHBORN in (l) developing his cover bý

cover company-directed travel; (2) actual Agency-directed travel and:

entertainment; and (3) travel and expenses for the primary benefit

of the cover company.

2. WH/6 had earlier submitted Travel Orders on all foreign

travel with the exception of the October 1966 trip to Central America/:

Mexico.

Following is a listing of the travel involved (largely domestic)

chargeable to the Agency:

Vi:

a. October 1966 - Travel by air to Central America-Mexico I

"on

business.

Cost: about $350. Charge: Probably

Agency, since it contributed to cover development.

b. 10 March 1967 - Travel by rail to Boston from New York City.

Purpose:

Inquiry related to PRI study.

Note: May have been paid

for by

Travel to Washington:

(l) November 1966 - Hqs consultation (general).

(2) 5-6 February 1967 - Headquarters consultation (general).

(3) 10-11 February 1967 - Headquarters' briefing on trip to li

Puerto Rico for AMANTHEM-4 training (WH/7).

201-253703

---

## Page 4

1d-0d0d

-2-

(4) 22 February 1967 - Headquarters debriefing (WH/7) on

Puerto Rico trip.

• (5) 27-28 February 1967 - Headquarters consultation on

PRI study.

(6) 14 March 1967 - Headquarters consultation on PRI study.

(7) 3 April 1967 - Headquarters consultation on PRI study!

(8) 8 May 1967 - Headquarters final consultation on PRI study.

(9) 21-22 June 1967 - Headquarters consultation/briefing ön

trip to Spain and on finances.

3. The above travel expenses were incurred by TICHBORN pursuance

to instructions from WHD.

When the exact accountings are received from

travel orders can be written covering these expenses.

AC/WH/6

Distribution:

1 - TICHBORN

1 - Chrono

---

## Page 5

14-00000

30 June 1967

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Edward G. TICHBORN

Indebtedness to WHD

1. . On 21 June TICHBORN promised

WH/B&F

that he would send him a check covering the following amounts

owed:

a. $171. 00 - rebate on April trip to Mexico.

b. $5.00 - owed from his last accounting

c. $250.00 - two months payments on his loan

2. At a meeting with TICHBORN on 20 June,

impressed on TICHBORN the need for clearing up all charges from

WHD before 30 Jure. At two earlier meetings,

requested that TICHBORN bring in a full listing of all charges for

travel, etc., which will be made by

_to DODS. TICHBORN

promised to submit such a list to Connor at the 21 June meeting.

3. In order to cover the travel not previously covered by Travel

Orders, T. O. 's will be written on these trips, largely domestic as

follows:

October 1966- Central America-Mexico trip (split charge

for air fare).

Travel from New York City to Washington (for WHD or

DO) - by air shuttle):

241. 233203

---

## Page 6

1d-0n0d

ЯТі Аб

-2

(1) November 1966 (general)

(2)

February 5-6,

(3)

1967 (general)

February 10-11, 1967 (re PR trip)

(4)

February 27-28, 1967 (re PRI study)

(5)

(6)

February 22, 1967 (re PR trip)

March 14, 1967 (re PRI study)

(7)

April 3, 1967 (PRI study)

(8)

May 8,

1967 (PRI study)

Travel from New York City to Boston (by rail) re PRI study

- 10 March.

AC/WH/6

?...?

---

## Page 7

in..?

londe in a

29 June 1967

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, CI/OA

SUBJECT

: Transfer of Operational Responsiblity

of Edward G. TICHBORN (201-253203)

REFERENCE

: 2. WH/6 - 453, 3 November 1966

b. CI/OA memo dated 22 November 1966

• Operational responsibility for Subject is being transferred,

effective 1 July 1967, from WHD to DODS. The WHD project under

which Subject Is supported, VOACE, 1e being terminated effective

1 October 1967.

2.

The new case officer for Subject will be

DO/CO, who can be reached at the following telephone extension:

11-61274.

AC/WB/6

---

## Page 8

14-00009

Fich 201

BOUTING AND/OR INITIALS - SHEN BY

MESSAGE FORM

©11ds

DC/E/IB

#XT.

DATE:

6353

21 June 1967

CABLE SECRITARIAT DISTEMINATION

a,8 mee

SECRET

SMOEX

D

DESTROY

RETURN TO

• BRANCH

DJ: 16 80

ND INDEX

D

PILE IN CS TILA NO.

CONg

(classifico: on)

SECRET

Joate and ima died)

(vicar)

CITE DIRECTOR

¡ralerence mamãail

13385

22 1725 Z

tO

EUR. 8

RID COPY

INFO,

FILE

. VE

DAL, CCS3 CSPS

7

7

REF:

1663 (IN 85824)

1. EDWARD G. TICHBORN (IDENTITY A) ARPIVES MADRID SUNDAY,

25 JUNE. WILL CALL

AT HOME DURING DAY, IDENTIFYING SELE

AS HANK.

2. TICHBORN BRIEFED AS FOLLONS. NATURE OF HIS MISSION IS

TARGET STUDY ON DYNAMICS OF SPAIN AS AN ECONOMIC ENTITY. TOGETHER

WITH MILITARY, CHURCH AND POLITICAL INTERESTS, ECONOMIC-FINANCIAL

SECTOR REPRESENTS ONE OF FOUR PRISARY TAREST AREAS. WITHIN THIS

SECTOR WE SEEK TO IDENTIFY GROUPS, INDIVIDUALS AND INSTITUTIONS

WHICH WILL PLAY A SIGNIFICANT ROLE IN DETERMINING BOTH DOVESTIC

AND FOREIGN POLICY, NOW AND IN FRANCO SUCCESSION ERA. PARTICULARLY

INTERESTED IN PERSONS AND GROUPS OF STATURE IN THIS FIELD WHOSE

PERSONAL INCLINATIONS OR BUSINESS INTERESTS LEAD THEM TO ATTEMPT

SHAPE POLITICAL EVENTS. AMONG THEM WOULD BE ECONOMIC ADVISORS,

FINANCIAL PRESSURE GROUPS, GOVERNUENT CONTRACT MECHANISMS, OPUS DEI,

WEALTHY MILITARY.

WILHASINO OFFICER

COORDINATINO OFFICERS

SECRET

Excludad trses

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMISITED.

/Continued/

AUTHENTICATING

OVIICER

copy NO.

201-2532031

---

## Page 9

14-00000

MISSAGE FORM

TOTAL COPIES:

SECRET

ROUTIAN -Un, GOd INITIAL" - SEEN ST

; Eats

CABLE SACRETARIAY DISSEMIMATION

BY.

1'10

_ ВЛАСНІ

RID COPY

SECRET

D

• DiSTROr,

RETURN TOi

AO INSAN

PILE IN CS FILE RiO.

INFOR

FILE

VR

laure and time fled)

PAGE TWO

CITE DIRECTOR

faces

Preterence rumber;

13385

3. SECONDLY, AITER TARGETS IDENTIFIED, TICHBORN SHOULD ATTENT

DETERMINE CHANNELS TO THEM THROUGH WHICH VIABLE OPERATIONS CAN BE

MOUNTED WITH PROBABILITY OF SUCCESS, SUCH CHANNELS MIGHT INCLUDE

CLOSE PEASONAL, CONTACTS OF T'ARGET INDIVIDUALS, PERSONS OR GROUPS

WHOSE ACCESS TO TARGETS IS ASSURED BY MUTUAL SELF-INTEREST, WOLADY

FIRMS WITH SPECIAL ENTREE.

4. THIRDLY, TICHSORN TO SURVEY IDENTITY B FROM THO POINTS JOF

VIEW: AS A VIABLE CHANVEL TO TARGETS, AND/OR AS POSSIBLE COVER

FACILITY THROUGH VUSALINE IBERIA. IDENTIFY TO EXTENT PRACTICABLE

WITHIN CAREFULLY WEIGHED LISITS HIS COVER, POLITICAL AND MILITARY

PEOPLE WITH WHOM IDENTITY B WORKS TO ENSURE SUCCESS OF ITS PROJECTS,

RELATIONSHIP WITH EACH, EXISTENCE OF KICKBACKS OR OTHER CL DESTINE

AGREENENTS WITH INFLUENTIAL LEADERS, CONTACTS WITH NON-CONSUNIST

OPPOSITIONISTS.

5. AS REGARDS COVER, SUGGEST WE STUDY FURTHER THE POSSIBILITY

OF USING WUSALINE IBERIA DESPITE MADRID'S NEGATIVE RECOUNENDATION IN

OSMA-22592. AGREE WITH STATION THAT SUCH COVER NOT SUITABLE UNDER

COORBIBLATING OFFICERS

BILLASING OSFICER

GROUP

Ersloded tres anteat&

REPRODUCTION BY

SECRET

SOBER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PRO.-ITED.

/Continued/

AUTHINTICATING

OFFICER'I

COPY JO

---

## Page 10

MESSAGE FORMA

TOTAL COPES

SECRET

BOLTING AND/OR IR:9:AI5 - SEEN $Y

Oxide

EXTE

DATES

CARLE SACANTARLAY DISIEMINATION

ST.

nas PER

CONF

FILA SN CS BILE MO. "

RID COPY

D INSAN

• NO INDIA

INFO:

FILE

C BESTROY!

RETURA 1O_

FILE MID

• ve

го Г

reference

SECRET

PAGE THREE

CITE DIRECTOR

133.85

7

CONDITIONS EXISTING HERETOFORE IN WHICH WUSALINE HAS GENERATED NO

BUSINESS ON ITS OWN INITIATIVE. RECENTLY,' HOWEVER, IDENTITY B RAS

COMMENTED TO WUSALINE THAT WOLADY FIRKS ARE MISSING NANY GOOD

OPPORTUNITIES IN SPAIN AND HAS SUGGESTED THAT WUSALINE ASSIGN TO

MADRID AN OFFICER TO WORK ON THESE POSSIBILITIES. HENCE, SHOULD NE

DESIRE TO PURSUE THE MATTER, WUSALINE'S EXCELLENT CONTACTS IN THE

WOLADY BUSINESS COLNUNITY COULD PROZABLY PRODUCE SUFFICIENT BUSINESS

TO JUSTIFY SUCH AN ASSIGNANT WITH AN ASSURED WELCONE SY IDENTITY B.

IN VIEW PROBLEMS AND LACK ACCESS INHERENT HARRIOTT'S PRESENT COVER,

WE WOULD ASK STATION GIVE THOUGHT TO THIS POSSIBILITY FOR HARRIOTT

WHO MAY BE PROFESSIONALLY QUALIFIED. WITHOUT SPECIFYING HARRIOTT

OR ANY OTHER OFFICER, HE ASKED TICHBORN ASCERTAIN UNDER HIS WUSALINE

COVER CURRENT VIEWS OF IDENTITY B ON NEED AND DESIRABILITY OF

HUSALINE'S ASSIGNING AN OFFICER TO MADRID. URGE STATION REVIET THIS

FURTHER WITH TICHBORN IN COURSE HIS SURVEY.

6. WUBRINX/1 (IDENTITY C), PRESIDENT OF NUSALINE, WILL ARRIVE

MADRID ABOUT 27 JUNE TO INTRODUCE TICHBORN TO. IDENTITY B AND PROVIDE

FULL SUPPORT HIS SURVEY.

WUBRINY/1 FULLY CLEARED AND HITTING.

COORDINATING OFFICERS

HELLASING OFFICER

SECRET

Esaluded tram sata

/Continued/

• AITNTICATING

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITSO.

COPY NO

7

---

## Page 11

MESSAGE FORAL

TOTAL COPISS

SECRETI

•R INiTIALS - SEESE SY

42A68%:

EX78

¿ DATE,

CABLE BECRETARLAT DISSEARINAIION

COMFI

DESTROY.

D

RETURN TO

FILE IN CS FILE HO.

RID COPY

• 0 1008X

FILE

(poca)

desassificarent

SECRET

PAGE FOUR

CITE DIRECTOR

13385

T. ENTIRE BRIEFING GIVEN TICHBORN AS FRAMEWORK WITEIN WHICH

WILL PROVIDE SPECIFIC GUIDANCE ON CONTINUING BASIS.

END OF MESSAGE

+-..

C/CCS/NC

DO/CO

AC/EUR/SR

ALIASINO OFFICER

(telecoord)

COORPINATINS OFFICEES

GaOUP

SECRET

REPRODUCTION 3_ THER THAN IHS ISSUING OFFICE IS PLAITED.

C/E/T3/4

AUTHENTICATIS

OFFICER!

COPY NO

==

=522-5

---

## Page 12

MESSAGE FORM

TOTAL COPIES

SECRET

20

08100

DC/E/IB

EXT.

6353

DATE 21 June 1967

CABLE SACHTTARLAT D:ISEMINATION

at me

EUR&

ROUTING AND/OR SMITIALS - SEEN BI

F, i

* :

12

SECRET

REF:

DIRECTOR

INDEX

D

NO INDEX

RID COPY

INFL

FILE

• ve

while and time filed,

i2 1728-2

13385

DESTROY

'D ATURA TO

FILE 8D

81LE IN ES FIRE NO.

1D04, CCS3, CSPS. CoRs

CITE DIRECTOR | 3 3 86

7

IDENTITY A

IDENIITY B

IDENTITY C

END OF MESSAGE

AC/EUR/S&

MALIASINO OFFICEE

C/CCS/NCC

DO/CO

(telecoord)

COORDINATINO OFFICERS

GROSPT

Kaaluded tros sarsaade

SECRE

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

---

## Page 13

SECRET

Ca Lopez

21 June 1967

2 'ORANDUM FOR: Chief, DO

SUBJECT,

:• Operational Survey In Spain by Edward G. TICFBORN (P)

1. After considerable coordination, agreement wes finally

secured fron EUR Division and COS

for Edward G. Tichcorn (P) I|

to indertake an operational survey in spain. Chief and Deputy Coleli

EUR/IB plus the undersigned had a prelinirary neeting with lichborn "

on 20 June 190%

Baciground reading was provided him preparatory to!

a dosalled briefing.

I'be latter was effected by DC/IB end the urder-

signed on 21 June 1967.

2. Tichborn's mission is to identify operational targets,

pril arily in the business conmunity but not excluding tbose in

the military establistment,

the Covernient;, and the church, 1n-

cluding Opus Del.

Identification 1s desired of elerents, Demicu

lariy in the business coumunity, wich have political influeace row

and which could be more important arter Franco's death. After Ider-

tifring such elenents, Tichbor is to seel: lays end means cê access

so them. de will, of course, par particular aucention to the Loca

Spanish partners of L

teras of their politice, ectiviuses

and their contacts with key ciicials.

He will assess

Tant in the event of a favorable assessment. exolain

in detall hor 1t could be exploited. He vill assess one of

Local partners whöse

3.

Tichborn Is leaving New Yor's on 24 June 1967 and will arrive!

1n liadrid on the norning or 25 June 1957.

He hes been saver the tele-

ploze number and address of DCCSL

wao kill be

his contact. Tichborn, upon arrival, vill telephonel

Ize

letier has been alerted by WOFACI cable of Tichborn's arrival.

HUBRIIX/ 1

will neet Tichborn In Madrid on 28 Jure and make appropriate Introductions.

It Is anticipated that Ilchborn will spend about a coath In

Med'id or as long as 1t 1s comercially plausible and operationally

necessary to fulfil bis mission. Necessary corercial groundvork

SECRET

201-253703

---

## Page 14

14-00000

SECRET

patien

hes been laid. Tichborn rerently net one of the Spenish partners

In You Yor's who was on a short visit to the U.S. They agreed that'

whea Tichbow visited Spain, they would jointly work on a prospectus

that coula be used to Increase business for

5. It is estinated that Tichborn's trip will cost about

$2,500.00.

Approval 18 requested to obligate $2,500.00 Of FY 67 OQA 0

DaTO funde for this purpose.

DOCO

CONCUR:

C/DSCO

APPROVED:

Chiet, DO

OriE - Adse

da o: C/DO/ Baf

X- richtorn 112e

1= DOCO cbrono

Dat 6/23/67.

0p8

SECRET

---

## Page 15

10:4/82/ Desi

Country

jpe oi acion

..:.

112100 t

Fracion

Project

W::a

Peraniaed

• іʼля

1160

5

1,t5!

20,900

asguesied

14,901

S. 533

ANDERIES

Obinied

: !!

itt:

" T.

tantas,c.

contract cores and polteclasios

racio.

-ant lodd ficaries,

sinoporcidigamento la etasa turcas.

jacasse 1909p608=9

into mataicas soloroa in te DO 2056615171

Pasjoct). Indo rot yorze ke

SO0HT:44H09 15

The prese

¡jon dá jicabordo capport costs urica Froject Wubaatt ao of lOcober 1967.11

Bisce Detobe: isso, Noisa

desg cover oi lee

unda hava boos gabacd to Tichtora un-

Projoct WubRii*).

30% Ecossadion cad 0222 232:

U.S. Ambassaduca in countros where Tichborno acrrices dre uti-

Uuod in saacia: opcrationo dos bauca so capropriate dad =acessary %a-

gasting dis assigamento do Sinto coordination os 303 Comitico action,

SECRET

---

## Page 16

A2T2

.

Da:!

22116

CRAPTO 1K:

NBEBOCA

2. ADDP

.".??

229 701y 105

0.435

1222:

Corticcioned il tikd

ularly es ad bee advicoi end mionitor la polarity elucuica operriero d

L.

Tho innofer of Ricasora inora en creiadire WiiD cratas cader

abiota drammide modo

¿ccatos Df lan rogo in isciaround Coteciales,

ai piania issino.

ij epond tão Locáulacii 1o Ohe: areas as woll.

3. Mx:c2200n0 :0223221-

.... ituis la dea.

Div/ 3r/Desk

17/6

ADDP Action:

Country

dica-wide

INDO

Bitcrälon2m

tion in SY 1S63

Pclitical

Action

Amount:

ProjectiC

LOSCE

S-E-C-R-E-T

in simeone

---

## Page 17

SECRET

MOOT APPROVAL NOTCH:

: CA

ACTION

MET•

(ANIDIENT

W399:908

.22ES

7.11

DRANCI

DESK.

CHIC OFFISE,

ANTHSRICATION

Arconfice

csaur.b10%11

4032 / 1

A SE

г1 9-1-3129-1967

1o angiot 1307

5, 500

105

1•55

-173c104

Exicacion of Project WOACE a pIOved ia too 2x:0uat o1

$5, 500 for tha poriod 1 July 1657 d0 30 Sureinbor 190%

NOTi: Projoci UOACE lorai ated clicchie 20

Septemüca 1967.

DATE

LIPSING

L4.336

1. aliel

6•6€

DAD: USE

PREVIOUS

LOITIONS.

DISTRIBUTION

DIVISION

SECRET

2: AUG 357 18

WIGONTE

• 13%

---

## Page 18

====-

attribaile

mason Hemischere Dicisiod

• 0.

75:.

322

SiT:

15

1067

C42247

C/WEi/S5

C/ Wii/CA

23/21

C/WIL

101020 V. Pres

TINJERRENZCS

OTNE? CO!!?

C/DO

1423/3GC0

Tal wit

CA/C-PEC

COSTIC

CPSERIP

13,5 н 7

117 Jul 67

Lie saa

FERICS

TO

1 Julv 1907

30 Sant.

196%

MOREONARD AUTHORITY

WA 404818 9

Assistant

Deputy Direcior for Plans

1:-cs 848

aOU$

INT THIS ACTION

$ $5.500

195 8:3

SECRET

i$$

---

## Page 19

14-00000

ABUSEST FOR FY 100S PROJECT EXTENSION

AND TERMINATION -- COACE

Total Trues Requested. $5, 500

2.

AReCal EaRach Profeet was encluded in the Operatiozal 2203

or 7X 1908. 190,251

3. Curren Oolecures. To support Contraci Agent Edwara G

TICOnd lot mo 16 used 25 2 covert acion advisor aud poincalamica

agent by WIiD, in addidion TicibORi is arailebto for elecio: campria.

rescich, spocas political surregs on seleciod countries and cares

research regure ents which can utilize his polical esperuse alla rea

moiledge.

:. Enciroad. Ia 1959 TICHBORY, e biliagral

tangos War pore dal Coperlenes, was tiredds a pollocal nodo::

167150*

for Agency-sponsored eluction operations inrougreat Latin America

a0 1as pireipsied in poluca: cocradons in Cuor, El Suivador,, Cuate

Cile, Argonian ted the Dominican Republic, basco in Memes Ci

Desisten tel

Razor in its Ca program

In digas: 1960 ne

is assigned los to New Tora City Where Le has boon Copicted for

coror purposes since October 1600 by te DO proprietary Wors

•. inffectreness. During the period 1 October 1966 - 30 June 937,

WAD mus had an cacortunity to use 2CRBOR% in his primary suit o1

poutical action acrisor on only one occasich.

I:: Februery TICHBORY

was sent to Puerto Rico to conduci a volcical acton brieting oi a

Sintion Santo Domi:go asset,

ANAN THE -, which Lasis he perioded

estoctively, In order to maximize the benefis o nis availability;

the

was assigned the continuing iosa of monitoring the Dominica: Republic

press and aralyzing media reacions towards Balaguer and opposicion

elenchis,

Severai detailed summaries vare submitted to the Doptinican

desk.

à major eliort was made ic develop an in-depth study vi ihe PRI

party in ilexico. After a number f mectings with Headquariers and

---

## Page 20

14-00000

Istator cracora and carly ertiato am on die pervi

MCMPOTeNo DRI Coleclo, tease contucts Rceeme relactant to delro

11o Senore P2i areas 0% to introduCe TICABORN 10 Cher contacts

winode access. In May doddquarters, the Stacon, and RiCadORS

in agreed, int the eifor should be dropped.

6a / Corer and Sacaritz.

ai Cordr.

ICTORy has done an exceitent job of buridings

is corer Win Weeklike.

its area taicoledge and laguage

Many dave proton of pool ted to the cover company, and he l

is chorn Mmoot trosunily well suited to the roods of sai

company. ¡ The cover company demands ca nis ilme, boli on che-

you mud dod locern and comestic travel, have not intericred with

his oporatioral actination.

Pa. Securie Wile in Mexico, TICHEORy acted as an

maofficint toral covisor for the Conter of Siudios and Decidemation

Wnch was monored in the MINDOWEL tian as boing funacd or 2

CIa cordidt.

Lou tom cue the Contes.

Similarin irere was apparchily is

Dublie exposure ci the iunding of the imellectual marzine with

ALCh in ids connedied, "Diaiogos", by other Cia Condulio.

Pere.

is no evalable cadence that lus security has been compromised:

%. 'Termination and Extension.

2.

Whtie TICABOR has been available for assignments caling

for his abilities as a poltical action advisor, the Division has not

had to require noris for such activities maca were anticipated.

Ita continuing ise di 'TICISORS for CIA tasks of lesser priorit

togeter with the time and travel demands ci his new cover business,

have hope in veil occupied during the period, however, in cisy

of lue inure anticipaied laca of comand for RICADORN's services

on a irequent basis, ard the comparativcly high cost in admirastra-

Live, linancial, and WH case officer mc required, it is felt tiat!

the projeci should be terminated, effecüve 30 September 100%.

b. " As indicated in the ser ion above on "Cover and Sccurity"

TICIEORY has proven himse:

: to be of real value to his cover

company WUSALINE and to DO. Because of their interest in using

---

## Page 21

1d-0000

him as a firtime assor. DO has a need to intume init acutticad

circares

1007. Responsenity for ine fulailment o MICRcORN's Contracti

(iconive incun 30 Settember 1367) mill be transferred io DO

illegive 1 Jug 1907. Full dinancial responsibily in micasha's

salary and expenses vill in transieracd to DO on 1 Ocloser 1967

ViD and Do here agaced tat because c TiGHBORd's area cubajedge

we Caperence, WHiD Would cajoy a pennary of interest in ts poscable

¡cure Oberatioanl use.

MnD agreed to reimourse DO int use costs of

Salary und eperses due any such future use oi TICHloci

Go In croco to Cover costs ol Salary and expense c 1iCaso2%

mul DO assumes financial resconsibill; on i Ociober 1906, & Fy

1003 entension di carce monas (from Louly - 30 Septemier 1067) is

requesica.

8: Coordiantion. Coordinion outside ine Agoney is nor necessar;.

9. Custs. (i July 1907 - 30 September 1007)

Balary (ree months)

$1, 250

flavel

1,250

TOTAL

$5.500

The Agent will be fuded as foilows:

a Val Divisicn will cano funds arcilable io DO to cover salary

and travel expenses. Do will pass those funds to Wusame

through exisung funding channels.

.w.", The Agent will coniorm to agency requirements in ali his.

accountings.

Action Regaested. Extension oi Projeci OACE for the periodi

1 July - 30 Septembor 1907 in the amount of $5, 500 and termination

cficcrive 30 September 1967.

---

## Page 22

- 20249

IRATITY

==.

Edward G. FICHBORA

---

## Page 23

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION

'SEC&BT

Chiefe Western H alapbore Division

-ran

PROCESSING ACTION TI

MARTED FOR DIDERING

NO DAÑEXING RIQUIRED

ONEY GUALIFIED DESE

CAM AUDICE INDEXING

MICROFELM

INFO.

FROM

Chief of Station.

SUBJECT

Operational/ESPAWN/TICHBORN PreSS Analysis

ACTION REQUIRED - RESERENCES

Reference: HDCH • 2588

Action: . Fl

The Station appreciates the press analysa contained in the

- Reference, which was prepared by Eduard G. TICHBORK.

ve feeli

that TICHBORN's comments on the press nage of EXANTHE/1

are particularly useful.

As Headquarters

1s avare, however;

KMANTUMM/1 bas not shown himself particularly illing to

take strides to improve his pross lage and contimes to

mantiest a ratbor callous dieregard for principles of publie

relations in general. While thus of no real tamediate use,!!

• continuing TICHBORN analysis would prove valuable should

the opportunity present itself to render EMANTHKa/1 public

relations advice and aid.

Tie also bolieve ouch an analysisi

would ba

worttubile in that it would keep TICHBOWl binself u

up to date on thr Dominican situation.

Should it be decided

to offer FlAVraMI/l direct public rolations or political

advice, TICHBORN, In view of bis established rapport with

this Individual, pould be a natural candidate for the Job.:

We rould therefore appreciate further TICHBORN analysis,

18 practicable and convenient.

N1chael C. CHOADEN

Distribution:

2 - Files

2012532031

CROSS REFERENCE TO

ASPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

EDCA - 6319

CLASSIFICANON

BICKET

DATE

14 June 1967

NOS FILE NUMBER

22-126-10/3

---

## Page 24

4-00000

CRETST

WH/6-586

6 June 1967

MEMORANDUM FOR: CAAS

SUBJECT

: Payments Received by Edward G. TICHBORN (P)

From Cover Company

Per your telephone request of 5 June, thia is to certily that Subject

received salary payments from his cover company for the period

I January - 31 March 1067 based on equal monthly installments of

his total yearly salary of $17, 000.

AC/WB/6

ix.?

741-253203

---

## Page 25

-00000

WH/6-584

2 June 1987

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, CI/OA

SUBJECT

• : Foreign Travel of Edward G. TICHBORN

(201-253203)

REFERENCE

: WH/G-509, 15 February 1967

I. In accordance with your request for Information on TICHBORN's

foreign travel (CL/OA Memorandum dated 22 November 1066) the

following is forwarded for your information.

2. TICHBORN travelled to the following countries since our

referenced memorandum:

New York City to Mexico City and return during

period 14 January - 20 January 1967.

b. New York City to Mexico City and return (via Caracas on

cover company business) - 15 March - 29 March 1967.

c. New York: City to Mexico City and return - 24 April ,

30 April 1967.

New York City - San Juan, Puerto Rico - 12 February -

18 February 1987.

AC/WH/6

Distribution:

Orig & 1 addee; 1 - chrono; 1 - TICHBORN

2012153263

---

## Page 26

1d-0d0d

UNICLASSIFIED

SUBJECT, (Oprional)

FRCMs

DOCO

it roficer denacion, rooms niricer, eid

c/DOcO

DO/DO

C/DO

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

öregän fichborn 20)

D

CONFIDENTIAL

SECRET

ROUTING AND NECOND SHEST

LILLION

11

524:55

DATE

DATE

OTICER'S

INiTiALS

OMAMENTS (Number eech ecenest lo

1o whom.

Dram a line across de ura or esc

RECEIVED

FORWARDED

26 MAY 19EY

26.25

2.

3.

5.

7.

8.

10.

DO/BF

7

3132y 7967

r17, i05 cilia.

3239

-:..

Leno died Mete.

!%,

c1

::?1

5 please pull your coy th

Fictitions 201

operatin epito indian

Wlans with de this:

discements, Nachae?

?.'

it 3+0+1-60190

June in canadaride demi

vergian dan schil

Cindy wil/chi needed

13.

14.

5.

me..o

T. 00908008891

201-253793

т.. lir.

---

## Page 27

14-00001

.. -.! x.

than

SECRET

25 4a6 1957

===-

MESORAIDUS FOR: Chief, DO.

VIA

SUBTECT

: Chief, DO/CO

: Eäward G. Iichborn (P)

The undersigned on 23 Her 1907 revicued In WY Divisica

Tichborn's 201 file (4 folders) and related operational files.

Perticular attention was given in this review to Ilcbcorn's

security.

2. The flles reflect that Tichbors is very security

conscious.

There is no evidence that Iichborn was ever sus

pected

of being a NOFACI operative.

3.

richbom practiced lar in Californiz and was setive

in state end notional polities.

Ne was recruited as a political

advisor on a pertine basis In 1959 by the CA Stair.

In 1962,

be was taken on full-tine under contract by va Division and

assigned to l'exice City.

His cover for this, assigmant ves

publiscing and norie interests in lorico and elsarbare in

Latin Âmerica. In lexico City be published a magazire,l

Ite CI/DA stair revien in

Jos stated that richborn's cover story was completely accepted

by his friends and associates.

Ibe SCS.IIRL Of Tichiora In 1955

revealed that he kad informed only his wiie of his asociation

wita WOFACI.

4.

The files reflect that Tichborn is very sensitive

Bbout security.

He balked at noring with a WOrNCT officer

In Mexico City, because a friend told Fichborn that the WOrACI

officer not orly was wOrACT but had openly admitted it to the

friend.

A proposes trip to Bolivia was aborted beczise Tichborn

felt there was no suitable cover.

Tichborn has traveled extensively in Latin Aserica

on training and cleation assigments.

Three countrles in which

he worked are Chile, Dominican Republic and Puanto Rico- On

these assigments richborn used his logal, publishing, ard

Dovie covere

It is urderstood that he also used alieses and

disguises, althougs this was not noted in the quicis review of:

the files.

He cas, of course, be debriefed in detell on this

aspect.

SECRET

201-253103

---

## Page 28

SECRET

• 6.

The files sbon that richborn's regazine, l

was funded through lIcchom dy various Individuals through

I.ents naze by CCS.

Ice i2/Nh/6 Inicmogated Ilcaborn on any

foundatic funding Ticasorn could ricall only cic Instance ci

foundatic= fundinze sose $2-2,500 given|

There is azo a reserence

In the files that one,

was incred teat ODiCID

also supposted!

To The files reflect very Lavorably on Tichbom's

perfomance - tiro reports by tre

Station and one

from COS.

ere cost concendatory.

On the negative

side, aim nistrative details tora him.

The undersigred has confirmed wits Chief, WE/CA

that 11 Do vill taie over Tickoora's contract, tir will pey

richborn's salary and expenses for the firot quarter of ay

Chier, Ma/CA 1s exalting DO's decision.

9. The undersigred 1s very Levorably Ipressed by

richborn.

31 1 October, It 1s believed toat Ficaborn will

be sufficiently well-trained in comerciel and irvestment

banking satters to do legal-business consulting on a fee

DasiS fOr MUSALINS. Ee should se able, dependirs on ice

nunber of operaiiunel requirements,

to earn a part, li not

all, of his salary.

On this basis,

it 1s recommecded tbet

Do assue administretion of Tickborn erfective 1 July 1965 indu iJU

with the understending that WE Dirision will debrey Tichbora's

salary and expenses during the first querter cê Fy 1958.

10/CO

CONCUR:

Chief,

APPRO

DO/CO

26 MAY 1957

Date

Date

26 May 196"

CC:

cc:

= SaOn

supporterT

---

## Page 29

14-00000

8 May 1967

(typed 12 May 1967)

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Contact Report, 8 May 1967

PARTICIPANTS: Edward G. TICHBORN,

PLACE

Hotel, 1230-1500 Hours

1. Preliminary meeting was in the hotel room but the bulk of the dis-

cussion took place during lunch and afterwards. The gist of the discussion

with TICHBORN was as follows:

a. TICHBORN explained how he had been surprised at the sudden

loss of interest by Antonio Menendez in the project and particularly in

introducing TICHBORN to other contacts. TICHBORN says that the

reason for this is Menendez' sudden recognition of the danger to his

political future in even indirectly being connected with what could become

a controversial book. TICHBORN attempted to develop various hypotheses

for the revelation of this fear at this time rather than earlier in the

negotiations. There was, however, no really clear explanation of why

Menendez had so suddenly drawn into his shell.

b. TICHBORN was asked whether he felt that in some ways we

were not "taken" by Menendez. He responded with considerable heat by

saying that it was a calculated gamble that "just didn't pay off".

He

became very defensive when the discussion turned to the original evaluation

of Antonio Menendez.

He says that he is convinced that Menendez has

the information as well as the cortacts and in short was the right man but

one who turned out to be unwilling to run the risks involved for the "small

amount of money" he would be paid. TICHBORN attempted to make a

strong case for his belief that Menendez was the right man and emphasized

(somewhat apart from the point) that some day he will have an important:

post in a future PRI government.

TICHBORN says the whole problem

was discussed with

who agreed that the project could not be

#:1953663

---

## Page 30

-2-

productive now due to the sudden reluctance of Antonio Menendez and

Jose Luis Siqueiros to introduce TICHBORN to their contacts.

also felt, according to TICHBORN, that it would be risky, for

TICHBORN to contact Gonzalez Casanova, Cholula and Urquidi.

While

details of the discussions between

_and TICHBORN were not!

given, it seems that the decision not to proceed was reached without any

major hassle between TICHBORN and L

_ (Comment: TICHBORN

appears to be not at all unhappy about terminating what could have i

become a long and unproductive research effort built on a shaky story

of TICHBORN writing a book on the PRI. )

c.

Antonio Menendez wrote up in English some of his comments.

based on his approach to the research problem. This 13 page double

spaced report is attached.

d.

Chaconas asked TICHBORN how well he knew Carlos Fuentes

(for possible BGBERET targeting). TICHBORN replied that he knew

him very well and that he felt he could approach him directly if he had a

reason for being in Paris (vacation, for example) or wherever Fuentes

is now living.

TICHBORN said that he believed Fuentes would accept an

assignment to write articles on North Vietnam based on a future visit

to that area but he also indicated that he believed we could not control

the tone of the articles which would be likely to be pro-North Vietnam. "

2. TICHBORN was asked

to review the list of trips TICHBORN

had made outside the country and to confirm the dates and advances intolved.

Jasked TICHBORN to get a list from his cover company of his domestic

trips so that when the cover company submits a claim, WH will have a record

of what trips were authorized for operational purposes involving TICHBORN.

TICHBORN, on the same subject, said that he feels as does his cover company

boss that some other arrangement should be made for some of his travel for

WH. TICHBORN says he feels that the amount of travel he is involved in may

appear unusual to the cover company accountant. L

Agreed that this was

not a good situation over the long run and that he would talk to

about making different arrangements for the future.

3.

TICHBORN was requested to rebate the $171. 18 owed from the advance

given him in Mexico for his trip there on 17 March.

He offered to write out

a check butsuggested that he send the check throughthe proper channels

to the post office box number given him. He also promised to send the

accounting for the latest trip to Mexico City in as soon as possible. TICHBORN

was reminded of the need to send in his April and May loan payments which he

agreed to do right away.

Distribution: 1 - UOACE/ops; 1 - WH/L

AC/ WH/6

1 - Chrono

---

## Page 31

14-00000

inder Dres di no.

CHORTY To It N0.241-2552 StASIFIEO MESSAGE.

#-BEP TO

DILE DID

SECRET

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

TOTAL CÓPIES

REPRODUCTION

PROMIBITEO

ACTION

WH-8

(ERID COPY

mE, VR, CCS 3, C 3P5,

ADVANCE COPY

UNIT

Done Quoreo

FE, FIJINT 2, CI/OpS"

TEN

1294

SECRET 021905Z CITEL

DIRECTOR

REF DIRECTOR 83282

$01895

LIOGLE

Z TICHBORN WILL RECOMMEND THAT PROPOSAL TO PREPAREASSTLE

FULL DRESS APPRECIATION OF THE PRI THROUGH HIS CONTACTS BE

DROPPED. STATION CONCURS.

2. HIS REASONS FOR MIS RECOMMENDATION CENTER ON

REACTIONS OF SOURCES TO HIS INSISTENCE THAT FINAL DRAFT

MEET FULL SCHOLARLY STANDARDS, AND TO THEIR TIMIDITY WHEN

ACTUALLY FACED WITH REQUIREMENT TO GO ON PAPER WITH PRI

2NA 57 1A 58328

CONFI

DENTIAL MATERIAL.

3. TICHBORN DEPARTED FOR NEW YORK 30 APRIL.

SECRET

'SECRET

BT

BY

201-253203

2 MATE?

---

## Page 32

14-00000

'SEGRET

MEZORANDUM PO THE RECORD

BUBISCT:

Outstanding Loan Account - Elward G. TICHBORN (P)

In the attached informal note by Bawrd G.

TICHDORI, he states that he recalls on or about

September 10, 1966 that, In a reeting with several

agency representatives, he received ticit ackrovledscent

that there would be no problen for the tenporary deiry

In his repaying of an outstandiug account.

None of

the Agency representatives bolleved to hnve beon present

at this vaguoly described necting specliically recalls

discussions of this outstanding account and spectfic

arrangozente for ita

handling.

Nevertbeless,

4* 18

belleved quite possible that casual reference to

1t

many have been nade at one of the acetings with TIChorN

and oithor throups alsunderstandlog of schoral ovoreigit,

the problon was not folloved through, in that repayaents

are belug nade on a continuing regular basis in atisfactory

BaDner.

Its believed no further action is required pro

vided that repaynent continuea at the rate of $125 por

month

sy agreed until the advance is nect in full.

The purpose of this meno is to state the

reason of non-payment during the perfod August 1906 -

January 1907 and will be to docuaent TICHBORN®s loan

account

C/H/CA

Attachaent:

Note by TICHBONN

1:0 253203

---

## Page 33

14-00000

20 April 196%

(typed 26 April 1967)

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD.

SUBJECT

: Contact Report, 20 April 1967

PARTICIPANTS: Edward G. TICHBORN and

PLACE

and Restaurant, 1945-2230 Hours

1. The following administrative details were discussed with

TICHBORN:

a. The change in insurance premiums was explained. He is

to pay $26. 88 for his next premium and in the future will pay

$25. 89.

His income tax problems were discussed, and he feels the

matter has now been arranged satisfactorily as a result of his trip

to Washington to talk to WH/B&F officers.

c. In regard to Spain--he was told that the situation still has not

been settled but that a decision is expected around the end of April.

c.

requested a statement from TICHBORN with regard to

his authorization to have a six month moratorium on his $125 a

month loan payments.

TICHBORN wrote out a statement per B&F's

request. He also signed a certification for his recent trip to Mexico.

requested TICHBORN to give him a check for the rebate for

his 17 March trip to Mexico of $171. 18. In response to a question

as to how. much he had paid Menendez, he said he had given him $500!

2. In a discussion on the objectives and plans for his 25 April trip

to Mexico City, TICHBORN said he intended to contact the following:

Menendez, Siqieros, Cholula, Casanova Gonzalez.

He said he had called,

and confirmed specific meeting dates with Menendez and Siqieros.

TICHBORN said he could not call Cholula and Casanova because such a

long distance call would seem unusual to these acquaintances.

TICHBORN

says he believes a firm decision can be made re the possible success of

21-253263

---

## Page 34

1d-0n0d

-2-

the PRI study as a result of this trip... He was told that lacking clear

will be staying at the

24 April for a week's stay. He will call

when he arrives..

AC/WH/6

Distribution:

1 - WH/1

• I - TICHBORN file

1 - Chrono

- UOACE/ops

• art leo sage 1a, a a pat era

---

## Page 35

Lipery

Copy of letter from Edward G. TICHBORN

"On or about September 10, 1966 I had a meeting with three ni

four gentlemen in Washington (as I recall, they were

and someone else) and I informed

these gentlemen that my moving expenses had been considerably

more than I had estimated. However, I told these gentlemen that

rather than ask for an additional amount, I wished to serve a

moratorium of loan payments for six months. One of these

men (with a nod from other) said "okay--don't worry about it--

just don't ask for an additional allotment. We'll take care of it."

"At this point we moved on to another topic, and I assumed I would

be allowed to skip payments for six (6) months.

(signed) Edward G. TICHBORN

(no date)

208-253.203

---

## Page 36

14-00000

SECRET

• D0-67-162

10 April 1957

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, HE Division

SUBJECT

: Request for Services of Edward G. TICHBORN (P)

1.

Pursuant to exploratory discussions participated in by

of Do, l

Jof EUR, and

of WH, your

approval 1s requested to assign contract azent Edward G. TICHBOR (P)

to Madrid for approximately three weeks TDy.

DO would, of course,...

defray the expenses of Tichborn's trip.

2.

As you know, Tichborn is provided, cover

by

DO's proprietary WUSALTIE under Project WUBRIN.

WUSALDE has

an affiliate in Madrid. The operational potential of WUSALINE's

say determinate Do, due or osla directo interested sen

not acker the Do, sut and cos a ate terested in

fully determined.

DO, DUR and COs, _

determining the access of the local directors to intelligence

targets and in assessing the affiliate as a cover vehicle.

As

WUSALINE's officer concerned with Latin Averica, Tichborn 15

considered a logical choice. fron the cover viewpoint for this

assignment.

He

also has considerable WOFACT experience, beets

people easily, is fluent in Spanish, and is a graduate of the

Harvard Law School.

The latter fact is Important,

considering

the legal background of the affiliate's local directors.

If you approve, it is envisaged that the operation will

se closely coordinated by Do, BUR, and WH. "COS,

concurred in a IDI by Tichborn and can provide on-the-spot

guidance.

Chief, DO DifisIon

SECRET

---

## Page 37

14-00000

24 March 1967

MEMORANION JOR: Chief, Ha/Support

ATTENTION

& HI. Ed Burroughs

SUBJECT

Compensation Pald by WUSALIHIS to Edrand O. TICHRONN (1

using the Period 1 October 1900-31 Jarmary 196

Edal O, TICHBORN (P) La bosag salaried by MUSALIM at the

reta of 817,000 per am. He esployment vith buSAll began

on 1 Octobor 1966. During the period 1 Detobar 1966-31 January 196%,

TICHBORT VAS PELA DY WUSALT a BARGEY DE $5, 666.6%.

• DOCO

€0!

va/6

SECRET

20-253203

---

## Page 38

chit Hes wise line

i Ticklin

sit hurt video

iranteerin

Harsh 16, 1967

Jiggert

"i1%

Attentions

Assistant secretary

Dear S1z8

1 I an anclosing a shack in the anount of $14, 750 for deposit to

The anont represanta ellotis soda fron

I win advise you vow soon sa to boy those lunds should ba

diatorned, therefore, please sale the deport an soon an posalblo.

Thanks for your cooperation,

Best ragarde

Enolo saro:

Check Number FE 85635

Wit lines for

tickbour

Put in as uncon

+ 301-253263

---

## Page 39

Telen Bol

any /54/00

March 13, 1967

Entest.

Okk ler"

Ivelva (Il), nonths consulting services -

(September L, 1966 -- August 30, 1967)

€ $1,000.00 por month .•

₴ f

Estinated expenses

TOTAI

$12.000.00

2, 750.00

$14,750.00.

201253203:

---

## Page 40

1d-0d0

2 March 1.57

(typed 15 March 1957)

MaCORANDON FCi THE RECORD

SUBJECT

: Contact Report. 2 March 1967

PARTICIPANTS:

Edward C. TICHBCRN and

PLACE

1900-2200 Hours.

noell

1.

reviewed in

funting of the magazine

comments:

Call MICEBORN'S Moredge di the eariy

TICHDORA made the foliowing

??.

The original 94, 000 giren him came front the Staton, and

¿core was no mention oi any cover story or indication di the ultimatelli

soulce oi the funds.

b.

Tith regard io tho

contribution to

¡onid that i Cad aoi go in lim due to some minap but did

Tris amount was, he recalls, coween

$2, 000 and 52, 500

c.

TICHEORN copad in raced to is towledge di any foundaons

nating given support to

by saying that none did io ids

Knowiedge.

The only sourcos he can recall were indiriduals irclearas

the iollowing:

2.

With regard to the PRI study on which ihe decision has beer: given

on 29 February by Chief,

Tn/CA lo go forward,

Save TICHEORY the

following instructions:

He was asked to provide prior to his departure a pre-travel

work plan which would include who he is going to see, whare, and what

he hopes to accomplish during this one-week stay in Mexico City.

He

agreed to suomit this incormation prior to his depariure.

201-253203

a Taste rital

---

## Page 41

.TO

ATTN

FROM

SUBJECT:

та, 10

OБA PER IT C/S 181-18A

UNITED STATES COVERNMENT

Memorandum

C/WH/6

WH/Pers/Contracts

Edward G. TICHBORN

CSORET

DATE:

27 February 1967

1. Edward G. TICHBORN has sent three checks to

without any

accompanying explanation.

$125.00

125.00

25,89

dated 15 Feb 67

dated

15 Jan

67

dated 15 Feb 67

(for "medical insurance")

The above, checks were received 27 Feb in an envelope postmarked

: 21 Feb 1967.

Please advise if you have any idea as to what the two

$125.

checks are for.

3.

It would facilitate processing of checks (payments)

df

TICHBORN were asked to

forward a brief explanation with the

check as to what individual checks are for when such cannot

be

indicated on the check.

28F ct.1967 that

#,25.00 amounto are for

star to refueles-

Bury US. Savings Bonds Regularly on she Payroll Savings Plan

701353203

---

## Page 42

!

WH/B-509

15 February 1967

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, CI/A

SUBJECT

: Travel of Edward G. TICHBORN

(201-253203)

In accordance with your request for information on

TICHBORN's foreign travel (C1/OA lemorandum dated 22 November

1966) the following is forwarded.

3. Edward G. TICHBOR! left New York City for Mexico City

on 8 January 1967, returrdig on 21 January. He travelled primarily

on cover company business tall extended his stay tornault with

Station L

Jon a possible research project of interest to

the Station and Headquarters.

are ten in

Chief,

WH/6

2208-253703

---

## Page 43

14-00000

SECRET

our aliens, Copy.

TO

THEU

ATTH

SUBJECT

AUIMORIZATION

TO EXTERO FUNDE

*FROM OTHER COMPONENTS ALLOTMENTS

Chief, DODS

Chief; DODS/B&F

Funding WUSALINE/VOACE, FY 1987

24 January 1987

REFERENCE:

NÜBRINY

SUPPORT, OR SERVICES. TO DE PROVIDED

Funding for WUSALINE/UOACE in the amount of $14,750 for

salary and travel expenses of Edward G. TICHBORN (P).

We Division/B&F_should be advised and

_ recelve & copy

of each advance request,

Cite MOR 2504XX; use liquidation code 1

Orig. & 1 - DODS/B&F

1 - OF/PSAD

1 - WH/B&F

1 - WH/6-Area Wide

CHARGEABLE TG

PROJECT

DOACE

ALLOTUENT NO.

7135-3104

MOR 2504XX

LIQ CODE 1

CBLIGATION REFERENCE

8: 146-9 ACCOUNT

SIGNATURE OF ACCOUNTADLE OFFICER

NO.

IF CHARGEABLE TO ACCOUNT NO.

FORWARD RECEIPTS SUPPORTING EXPENSESTO

BUILDING

144.1

EXTENSION

SIGHATURE OF DIVISION CHIEF

DIVISION

FUNDS AVAILABLE

SIGNATURE OF BUDGET OFFICER

SIGNATURE OF APPROVING OFFICER

Chief, WH/6

CONCURRENCE

SIGNATURE FOR FINANCE DIVISION

+ 09:8

.18.82 1716

SECRET

131

---

## Page 44

54=34

the o..

SECRET (When hird in)

HAME US ADVANCEE

DATE

NEQUEST FON ADVANCE

OF FUNDS

PATAULE TO

2 2nh 101

"GUILE SN

AMOUNT

$14,750.00

DATE • VOUCHER

NO.

See Pom 18e stureloa

Fund CroRE /No on he court sa on to boo for da on thon 1 morones

of

(Copy of Authorization to Expend Funds Irom Other Components Allotments 1s 1n

STATUS OF OUTSTANDING ADVANCES

DATI

AMOURT

UNACCOUNTIO BALANCE

REQUESTING OI FICER

CATE

DO/CO

1384 XX

DATE

I CERTIFY FUNDS ARE AVAILABLE

CHARGE FAN ACCOLNT 1Q,

7135-3104

SIGRATURE, GE AUTHORIZING OF VICER

DO/BF

DISCRIPTIÕN-ALL OTHIN ACCOUNTS 15-99

36.19

STATION

28-39

Tin Mone

DESCHIPTIR

ADYANCE ACCOUNTY PIARY

PREPANEL DY

F9Rm 281

1, 89

OSSOLETE PAIVIOUS EDITIDAS

Balancon

millatty

uthore deduction from

DUE DATE

need bedang so the pines

aurhorise my odont, whose signalure appeara below. Po receive

currency amountind

ON ARRIVAL AT DESTIRATION

DY OR AROUY

MONTHLYNCH THE LAST

YORKDAY OF TACH MONTH

VATE

SIGNATURE OF ADVARCER

GATE

SIGNATURE OF AGENT

PLACE OF ACCOUNTING-

DATE

APPROVED

SIGNATURE OF APPHOVING ORTICEN

AICEIPT FOR FUNDS ADVANCED

About.

DATE

C/DOCO

ANGUNT

DATE

CERTIFIED FOR PAYMENT OR CREDIT

AUTHORIZED CERTIFYING OFFICER

SIGNATURE OF ADVANCES DAGDIT

LC 48

SPACE DELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF OFFICE OF FINANCE

51-56

A2-A7

RET Ng.

O8L.

99-S8AM

ACCOUNT SYMDOL

GENFRAL

LEDGER

67-70

CLASS

181-70

79-80

AACOUNT

sua

EMP. NO.

61-66

сх. на

I REZ. NO.

DEBIT

CREDIT

DATE

DATE

REVIEWED DY

TOTALS

SECRET

(90.48)

---

## Page 45

14-00009

*Ci:

D

SECRET

TO

FROM

: Office of Finance

: DOCO

Date: 9 March 1957

SUBJECT: Request for Covert Payment (Other Than Cash and Treasury Check)

• Is requested that peyment euthorized on attached documents reflecting. obl1zat1

ference nuber (or otker divisional ref. No.) 115 Coda =1 2504

"se made in the followirg manner:

1. Payment to.

STATUS (A-A.) CAIIAICES INTICACE

$ 14,750.00

ABOUNT

2. Method of Payment

_ Devised Cover Check.

Account No.

1 Bank Cashier's Check (specify city by checking list belor)

ROSTEN

SCHICACO

CLEVELAND!

DALLAS.

TARSAS CITY

DENVER

MILWAUKEE

DETROIT

LOS ANGELES

MIANEAPOLAS

MEN DRLEANS

XINEN YORK•

PHILADELAMIA

* Checks are available for immediate delivery

RICHMONO

SAN FRANCISCO

SEATTLE

ST.

"Lovts

MASMINCTOR.D.C.

WILMIAGTON

b.

By deposit, bark transfer, ete.:

(1) Account Name:.

(2) Account Number:.

(3) Benk Name:

(4) 3ank Address:

2ip:

starstey

Dvia Air Mail or I Bank Wire

1Feyment to be originate

frou

ISELECT CITY FROM ADOVE LISTI

(7) Indicate remittor 1f desired:

c.

Il parient is to be originated by Foreign Bark,

specify

country

and cooplete section b. (1) througa (7) above.

After delivery, discuss,

• Monetary Division, Field Operations Branch.

3. Payment by

other means:

Discuss With Monetary Division, Banking Branch Officer

Indicate preference:

D Notify

transaction 1s complete D Check to bei picked up

PLEASE DETIVER TO DO/BF

BY MOBILE ILItaR

11-61171

STENTORE FrOStING OFFICER

SIGNATURE CE APPROVING

C/DOCO • 12-61274

"EXT

FOR USE BX OFFICE OF FINAICE ONLY

_City

Method of Payment

TORM 18C4 99891675

PREVIOUS

SECRET

---

## Page 46

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION

Criter,

in Division

10

EXFO

FROM

PROCESSING ACTION

MARKED FOR

INDEXING

NO LACEXING BEQUARED

CHLY QUALIT IS DUKH

CAN SUOGE IRCEUNG

ABICROFILEE

Chief of Station,

Minin/?Irance Fahard Of TICHNORN prorissary lote

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

REECE: NN9S-5093, dated 29 Decenter 1965

In response to reference, attacted 1s the oririnal of reference

togethe with related oricinals of autority for Paynchl Deductions and

receipt for the loan amount.

I'cr

Attachment:

As Stated Above, h/W

Distribution:

3 - Chief, WID, w/att

CROSS REFERENCE TO

0201-253203

DATE

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

IT- 7 494

CLASSITICATION.

SECRET

18 Jaruary 1967;

HOS FILE MUMBLI

---

## Page 47

• 2-

CTOPET

Fichloin

15 Docember 1966

NEIRANDA FOR: DC/DO

SUBJECT

Discussions vith WH/6 re Posalble Una of Ever O

Pleabor (P) In Sput

1.. The andersigneil lunched on 15 December 1956 vittl

was formerly COSL

Chief, kH/6 under

He 10 & very coupotent and conscientious

case officer. Be beltered that Wl Divicion ahould got the noot operational

bonafits possible fron Tichborn, Inamuch as WE Division la paying Tich-

born's salary.

Be 10 vorking diligently to done up with operational

assignsento for Tichborn.

Ho han Pichborn wocking on tw renearch

profooto and kopas to establish Tichborn as a lolitieal advisor to

the Govermint of the Doninicon Republie. Altbough Wl Divielon 1s

nurfering bulger euts, which Mr. Patten Lamnto, his projoct for

Tlobborn has been approved for one year ard funda are evailable.

2. In vow of

conscientious approach no case

/loer for Tichborn and sou know parochialim in Wil, the

mdaraignod folt 1t unico to prosal

for more than

epproval for Tiobborn to make & 2-3 weeks trip to Spain. In

foot, the undereigned has to present a considerable cuss for

even this linited uns of Tichbor. Horever, an e result, it

1a bolieved that l

Will support 1n Wl Diviaton & TDX

1n Spatn for Tiehborn cl 2-3 veeks duration at DU exuense.

will oall the undershened on 19 December. to report

3.

The undorsigned salzed upon the bulget cut point to voluntear

that DO would do anerabla to helping out with Tichborn's salary 1I

WE 10 herd pressed.

declined, inasnch as his project

1s approved for one jour. Ha hopes to get so many oparational benefite"

tro Tichborn that be will have no problem renewing the project naxt

year. Is did adnit that DO's willingness to pay I'ichborn's exyensen

and salary unilo on a IDY to Spals should balp him sall tha proposal

to bia superiors.

4.

The underaigned pointed out that ha had not yet approached

to Spanish Desk on a IDY for Ilchborn, becaune it was desired to

SECRET

Ex:! 1. 91

961-253203

---

## Page 48

CorE

got WIl Division's views as a Mirot step.

sald "bet 1a

the event, of WA approval of & TDY to Spain for Tichborn that

he vould 1lla to participate vith DO and the Spanial Dest in

the heleting of Fichborn.

The interaigned readily concurred.

thinks that Tlahborn sbould not be e global asset

burt ratber ons limited to Latin Ancrica.

However, ho did

coneur with the underoined that Spain represents an exception

because of language uni historioal ties to Latin Aperica.

Jatrongly hopes Tichborn can be a political advisor

to the Dorinican Republe Goverment.

He would not think of

rocmenting to his superiors more then a 2-3 veeke TDY for

richborn ulth the understanding that the advisor roguirement

has Irlority. The undersigned pointed out that DOP considers

tha spanich requirement high priority, and that use of fichborn

for a IDY to spain would suroly be an Important justification

when profect renal time comes around.

5. It la hoped that Vil'a position sill bo favoralle for s

2-3 wooks use ef Tichborn un Spain. Any presoing of Wil for uos

of Plebborn over a longer perlod 18 a matter of delicacy.

The

uneroignal knows that ill fools they vere coerced Into accepting

ProJect NUTTERE. The unleroignad would not recormend pressure.

On the contrary, the unisraignoi has hoped to ue Tiehbom as a

mans of opening up Latin Arion for Project VulnIly.

DOCO

Distribution:

Calg - Adse

1

- WUErTEr/Opa

Tichborn (P) Alle

• chron

1...

SECRET

---

## Page 49

1d-0d0d

9 December 1966

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT

.: Contact Report, 8 December 1205-1600 hours

PARTICIPANTS: Edward G TICHBORN and

PLACE

: 1:

1. TICHBORN arrived at the meeting site in the lobby five minutes

We went up to the hotel room where the following business items

were discussed.

a. He was told of his overpay of $872. 37 which he said he would

return at once by check to

b. TICHBORN was reminded of the requirement that he pay his

premiums of S. 63 for his health insurance. He was told he owed,

for the period of October through January, and it was suggested that

he pay by check directly to the above box.

He was told that there' was'

no expiration notice sent out on the premiums being due; hence, it was

up to him to keep the matter current.

He was told that Finance was interested in obtaining his

monthly payments of $125 in repayment of his loan of $3, 000.

Apparently he had last paid in July.

He requested an extention or'i"

moratorium through January 1967 due to his heavy expenses involved

in moving.

13 41

TICHBORN was shown copies of the "White" FBIS publication.

After he has looked at these,

he will notify

Tas to whether he i

wants copies in the future mailed to the post office box which he has

now obtained.

e.

TICHBORN was told that the $575 which he had lost on a

TDY trip about a year and a half ago has now been officially written off.

• i've a

3001213203

---

## Page 50

1d-0d0d

-2-

TICHBORN was told NOT to use his pseudo, TICHBORN, on

mail

_had received an envelope from TICHBORN which carried

his pseudo on the outside as sender but had a phony address).

2. TICHBORN submitted his proposal on the PRI study which he;

estimated would cost $3, 800. Since it did not have a research plan or

outline, L

requested him to send one as soon as possible.

TICHBORN

believes Menendez is indispensable and that his services are worth i l!

the $2, 000 he has projected. TICHBORN feels that his plan is not as'".

complete as it might be but would be of a very useful size and scope

and could be completed in six months. [

Ibriefed TICHBORN on

the peculiarities of our operational interest in research as contrasted to.

the traditional academic approach. TICHBORN seemed to understand.

these distinctions very clearly.

3. TICHBORN had a preliminary report entitled "Press Reaction to

Balaguer".

He said that last week he had finally found a newstand on

146th-Street where he could buy daily issues (only about a day late) of in

El Caribe, Listan Diario and Ahora.

] briefed TICHBORN on our (WH) reluctance to send him on

missions to other areas.

He indicated that he had not heard of the

Spanish tripfrom

He quickly said that he thought such a trip was

justifiable from the standpoint of Spanish relations with Latin America,

etc. etc.

5. He agreed that he would be of very limited use for in other

areas and said that he had so informed

when such travel had been -

proposed earlier:

DC/WH/6

Distribution:

Orig - TICHBORN (UOACE/ops)

1 - Chrono

---

## Page 51

sichborn (P)l

6 Decenter 1966

SUBTEXT

ERP

: Spats

B.

DO senprandin 66-284 atd 1. Xor 1360 to

Chief, BUR Division so Poasible Exploitation of

Hazorahr Ate 8 Movember 1966 Prom Chier, DO

re information about spain

In Chief and DCP; IS Inforned the undarsioned that Chief, EUR

does not think her A contains suffietent specifle informatica to

pamdt cisguare eveluation of l

I cocess to intelligence

targets fa Spate

Es, therefore, refuses to pereit tremmittal to

the fielt os urallablo information as sensod la diocuriona beld

with DC/COS

prior to ble departice. They slso Inforned tha

underlad that the reparents in Ret & should be more specific

end requested that tha undoraigad discuss the natter vith then.

2. The untarolgnd had previously discussed Bal 1 requiresents

with WUERIr/1. Eo sulnitted o lot of U. I. fires operating la Spain;

a previous report on the ten loading spenish banks with the Interlocking

connections ta todustry of the officers and afracton of the banks;

end, & propcoal for aditional study. WUBRINX/I proposed that, in the

ree of poollihing a finencial diractory,

JeFproach U. S. fIrma

perating In Spain and obtain detalled infartion as their operations

VURRINY/1 a)GO proposed to amproach |

I allegedly in behalf of a cllent bank interested In Spsin,

to do a may fron the political viefoint on the most sienificent

pover elemente in the concute and cameroial flell. Ho naid that tha

study could be se elaborate as WorAct is willing to pay. The under

algod, arred with Walll/l's thinking and 11st of U. S. companies,

net with Chief and DC/E/I3 at thalr request on 30 Hovenber 1966.

mot 3. Chiat and DC/S/IB asted som very specifle quentlons on the

Becess of

either su a firm or through ste Directora to

In 0111gence tangett.

Thy mast be in & position to juntify to the

atlafastion of Chlet, Eln that

have intelligme

pabllity shich can be operationally exploitad; Tberefore, ansver

must bo fortheoniug on this natter or DO same thes that I

has euch accesa but omn't exploit 1t unless en otisoes lo asaignod. to

CEORET

361-253203

---

## Page 52

SECRET

To prineipal questions asted are Iloted as follows:

o. What are the normal commercial relations, 1t my

between

nd the Spantah Coverent

€..

If much relations exist, sire detedle. For did the

comerelal relation artoe? Vas 1t because of

constelal searcas or relations between individual

Directors and officiale of the Spanish Govermant!

II the lattor, that 16 the naturo of the solationablyi

Was 1t Artenduhiy or under-sbe-table deals such as

klakbasks, rebetes, ets.

Describe enchl

Pyantsh

governant deal giving the substance, participanta,

and arrangerental

Jur its Directors heve comections vith

any polltical group, either in the regise or in the

orpocittan? Does it contributa fundo to zzy political

do

Does There suy deals uith the military on see

and oquirent? Is no, elvo dotella.

What aro the spocifle projects

has arised on In

tho past two years, elthor for 1ts am necount or the

anccant of others. Give detalls.

What intorantion doestave, or a expability for

astaining, on ipain'a econonte, tndustrlal, and finercial

situation da it night affoct & post ranco Covernant.

Do Del S requirements, Chief end DC/3/ID affland interest

In the most signiflount pover clomata in the econonde or commercial

sold ta spalu, particularly those having political ties. Thay are

Intorested not In all U.S. fuma operating in Syaln, but 1a tbose

unieh ara politically consolous and have the capability by virtoo

or else of nature of vort to influence sulltical life fa Spall.

a capability to 1nfluonce Spantan politicas 11f0, the CheS unt DC/5/I

would be Interested in knowing the U. S, mangers la Spata sho doal

seith tha Bperich authorities.

- Бо

The unterntonel ashed, mi Chief und D/B/13 agrood, to send

Chief, DO their speatflo roquirements on a formal basso.

DC/s/IB opined that Profest WirIlY eppears te have the best capabllity

for Spain and Protect Maris for Partugal.

SECRET

---

## Page 53

14-00000

SECRED

eyo1ffe nature of the I

that movars to such specifto amations would regulre comone spending

considamble tine on the syot. he could not spend the time, but sug

gaoted that Ul contract agent, Shard 0. TICHBORN (P) Do made evalled!

for too roars ancienat witt

wmhrd/1 noted that

Plehborn le fluent in parish and m experteneed hand in ferreting

ut vuch lifemation. kremer, It would to perioctly satural fo

1 li

Mohborn to vast

Jprtor to undertaking comercial vertures

1n Letts /3e8128.

A vialt by richborn sould be very Loadeal fron &

training: respoint and in the light of the traditional tles between li

spal cad letin Arica.

8. Th0 inderalynol conours with Wusum/1 tunt Flebbora would

be as excailert mons of obtainins the desiral Intoration.

• Bubjeot

to la Dividon's opmailoral donario on Fickborn, 1t 10 boped that

WE Divleton wald wors him avilable for a couple of veers.

This

ent toe een ko dsveloped further when WITTRI/1 ratuns fira Europa

and 1t 19 detaratnod unother Xichbom vill ba neuded for a to vecla

trading job in the Darinican Bejaalle.

TOCO

Distribution:

0rig - Aloa

1 - Tichbesa

Tops

SEDRET

---

## Page 54

14-00000

' 23 November 1966

MEMORANDUM FOR THE FILES

SUBJECT: Addresses and Phone Numbers of Edward TICHBORN

Following are addresses and phone numbers for TICHBORN:

Office:

Office Phone:

House Address

Home Phone:

DC/ WH/ 6

701-253203

---

## Page 55

TO

FROM :

ATTN'.

SUBJECT:

UNITED STATES COVERNMENT

Memorandum

SECRET

: DC/WH/6

WH/Pers/Contracts

DATE: 15 November 1966

Edward G. TICHBORN Salary Overpayment; Payment of Contract:,

Hospitalization Insurance Premiums

G. TICHBORN and

i and procee to manne canet hospitaaro

procedure

zation Insurance premiums.

2. It i's requested you advise T:

Although full salary for October

1966 was paid him;

by his cover office

Headquarters payroll erroneously sent

the amount of $872.37 to his bank representing his October

salary.

I is to liquidate the overpayment by forwarding

his check in the amount of $881. ($872.37 plus 8.63 insur-

ance premium) payable to

beginning with October, receives full salary.

from cover,

As Ile will be necessary for him to provide payments.

to Headquarters for his contract hospitalization insurance. i

The monthly premium is $8.63.

It is suggested that premium payments be made on a

quarterly basis beginning with the period Oct 66 - Jan 67

inclusive®

ubsequent quarterly payments should be mad

uring the last month of the preceding quarter. Check shoul

If T indicates quarterly payments are inconvenient

he may pay in any multiple of one month in advance.

In such

case, the initial payment must be for two months (Oct and

Nov).

Subsequent payments should be made in advance of the

month for which premium is due (premium for Dec should be

received during Nov, etc.).

Advise T that expiration notices are not sent.

The above checks should be forwarded to this office

for processing.

d.

It you desire for I to send the checks directly to

the following sterile address may be used (let me know

LE' he is to use).

8254 1

C97* = 98 170

SECRET

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

abi.

253203

---

## Page 56

SECRET

2

3.

If any questions on the above, let me know.

Related Men rize!:

6243:72499 821

€93:909%782*39

SECRET

---

## Page 57

cd-ionod

UNCLASSIFIED".:

SUBJECT: (Optienal)

FROM:

.=!...

WH/Pers

TO: lOfcen denngnarion.

builelng)

1.

2.

3.

-SIWHSPERS

wM/BiF

C/WH/6 3B 4404

5.

C/WH/SS 3D 3113

6.

chres. Sopg.it

8.

DOD 1750 Pertre

DO/PeN.

".

g/tot Srgppent

11.

D.E B* 7

TT.

1:1°

1265

21 Mo

13.;

File: behlour

14.

15.

PORA

$-42

610 "SMOS

SECRET

SITERNAL

•SE ONLY

FOUTNG AND RECORD SHEET

EXTENSADA

3D 3113

DATE

4460

OIFICER$

INITLALS

RICEIVED

FOMMARDED

COF DENTIAL -

SECRET

DAt /November 1966

COMMEN S Nua er och saatiom do si gct com mton,

ao artrom.

d it

1 19

1i,

-.-

=.

Pro

HA

te₴

CC SAN OPIITDCAT

- sobjest sor Cifriant

So with sot. apent carn

paag rall

• CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

JUSE ONLY

Dhove: +017006480

8i This pessom.

10. ss your pay thiny".

201-i2532:3

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 58

14-00000

reen anan

r.%

SECRET

1: 10:::33

MEMORANDUM FOR: Domestic Operations Division

SUBJECT

: Edward G. TICHBORN, Compensation

1.. The contract for Edward G. TICHBORN has been

amended effective 1 October 1966

increasing his basic

compensation from $12,000. to $17,000. per annum.

2. It is requested that your office effect the

necessary action for WUSALINE to payroll the increase.

& Willian V. Broe

'Chief

Western Hemisphere Division

Esclosed lian alaratic

Ban spad 3g acd

SECRET

---

## Page 59

LeS- UNCLASSIFIED

INTE: A

USE

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

CONFIDEL AL

! SECRET

SUBJECT: (Optonal)

FROM:

TO:

¡Offere designation, robra marbe

building)

EXTENSION

4.032

OFFICER'1

NITIALS

Eet THE

10 720x.666

COMMENTS (Number doch comment lo show from whom

1o whom.

Draw @ lene across column offereach' comment.)

REMD

FORWARDED

Coo 1H19

Fichlown file

3.

4.

MEMORANDUM FOR:

10 November '66

7.

9.

10.

Just received this from

got it from the tax man who recently

saw TICHBOAN (o/a 8 November) in order to

straighten out his tax resporsibilities and

to have him sign his new contract amendment.

The anendment will be sant over to lou by

Wh/Contracts shortly. Let's get together on

this shortly call me about Tuesday and maybe

we can have lunch together near your shop.

ie. the trip

13.

14.

15.

FORAd

3-42

FORM NO.

101

LAUG SA

REPLACES FOAW

10-101

WHACH MAY

#E USED.

610 SEATENS

PRIMOUS

SECRET

• CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

:.11

TDATE),

---

## Page 60

MEMO : Te

FROM :

IN RE: Projected trie through Latin America

Bearing in mind that our executive committee

may. (at

some future but presently undetermined date) desire

to undertake in-depth surveys of economic conditions. In

certain Latin American countries, we consider it highly de-

sirable to establish prior contacts witn the banxing and

business communitles of several selected areas wnich are

most likely to offer

sound investment opportunities:

Our past experience indicates that 1t 1s much easter

to.

assess spontaneous financlal ventures if one is already

acquainted with the business ambiance of a particularicountry.

Thus, having previously touched base with local bankers and

industrialists.

_would have the advantage of thier"

personal advice in matters relating to any specific sub.

sequent projects.

The countries that would seem to offer the most pro

Ising opportunitles for

are PERU, CHILE, ARGENTINA.

URUGUAY, BRAZIL and VENEZUELA. Fortunately, we have already

established certain minimal tles with most of these countries.

but it would be best for

himself to become personally

acquainted with our contacts

therein.

in order to save time and money, It would se advisable

to visit all these countries in a single round-the nemisphere

10275

ronina do cation co.

---

## Page 61

"NO"

2.

trip. Taking into account the normal travel delays,

"Ithe

trip would reguire about eighteen (18) days.

Budget reguirements:

1) Airline fares - $550 per person.

This 1s Pan American Airlines special

lowinter

fare." Nornally, the trip costs $840 per person.

2) Lodging, food and minimal entertainmenti

expenses - about $35 dally per person.:'

Total for each person would be about $630.

3) Miscellaneous expenses (ob fares to and fron

airports.

in-town cab fares, phone cards.

secretarial costs, etc.) - about $100.*l

Since the month of December is generally a slow.

business perlod in most of these countries, we would,

SUBZESE

that this trip be made in the month of January, 1967.

---

## Page 62

1d-0d0

Ki :

"..'

Ficklien

file

3 Hovember 1990

NH/6 - 453

MERORANDUM FOR:

CL/0A

ATTENTION

sUBJECT

: Edward &. TICKBORN (201-253203)

REVERINCES

: C1/0A Menorandum of & November 1965

1.

Subject has been trannforred fron Mexico City

to the New Tork City area whore he ta euployed in

WUSALINE, & BOPACK controlled proprietary corporation.

Be will no longer be connected fith Project LICOLIC or.

Involved in furnishing II information

an diltnested in the senorandus o1 Felorence.

TICHBORH'S new assignment will Lavolve tho

following operational duties:

Various research activities in the

polltical and psychological unfure fields.

polltical expertise vill belutiiired

ise area kaorlodgo, Isaguage sb11188 1 the

moduction of political analyses-10-depth

of key caspalen desues, personalitics,

and

partlos in soloctod Latin Anerican countries.

spedited.

It is requested

OA en Subject be

DC/TH/G

701-253203

---

## Page 63

14-00000

1 November 1966

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT

: Contact Report, 26 October

PARTICIPANTS: (1) Edward G. TICHBORN. I

PLACE

(2) TICHBORN,|

: (1)

(2)

1500-1730 hours.

Restaurant 1730-2000 hours

I. During the meeting

the majority of the discussion /

cenetered around

] the trip to Central America and CIA/DO

relationg with

The following points of Interest were gleaned in

this period.

Jis a highly-trained promoter who is coldly reserved

and capable.

Ile seems to be generally pleased with TICHEORi and

his capabilities for serving the firm as legal advisor, contact man.

and unofficial economic consultant on economic matters.

b. TICHBORN likes his cover company, l

Itself.

and the work

] If let alone, would use 100% of TICHBORN's time.

When he brought this up, L

Jused it as a starting place for briefing

on the general nature of TICHBORN's functions of the past.

was told that he would need TICHBORN for "research activities"

in addition to any use involving special trips to Latin America.

He

was told we would need 50% or more of TICHBORN's time to carry

out these activities.

It was pointed out to him that because of the

nature of TICHBORN's services, we would have to insist that he be.

available for immedlate use and hence could not be on any long-range

projects which would be difficult to drop. [

accepted

these limitations without visable annoyances or objections.

d.

Tichborn says his office cover is good and there are no

indications that be 18 not accepted for what he purports to be.

---

## Page 64

(FENSORS concurs In this estimate of the lack of security probleme

within the office.

2. After leaving I

subjects were discussed:

we went to dinner where the following

pointed cut clearly that he was "the boss" and responsible

for TICHBORN's operational utilization.

TICHBORN was told that

Is responsible for the

commercial setup. There appearedito

be no doubt in his mind as to who calls the shots

b. TICHBORN was told of our need for an experienced Latin

American speciallst who could handle political action research on key

issues in certain countries. He was also told of our interest in possible

CA covert action advisory tasks.

Our need for someone able to make!

meaningíul interpretive analyses was explaired in some detail and

examples of probable areas and issues were presented. TICHBORN

said he had no special experlence in content analysis or survey analysis

techniques.

However, he was apparently very much interested In the

Idea. He said that he would get the book suggested on content analysis.

He will check into the availability of the Dominican Republic papers

mentioned and let know by 5 November if they can be had in New

York City. He was requested to approach the problem along the general

following lines: Analyze the Bosch anti-government statements for

indications of whom he is trying to reach, how, and for what reason

(since June 15). Similarly analyze the Balaguer statements and determine:

1) Influences the news media is having on his public image.

2) Where and how could he strengthen this image.

3) What lasues should be raised or surpressed.

It was suggested that the try to get issues of El Caribe and Listin Diarlo.

Intelligent and In ection ta "sary". Ne has a profelony amit it

initial Impressions of TICHBORN were as follows: He la very

friendly manner. Re is a natural politican. He is an "operator" and will

collaborate very closely and enthusiastically so long as there is real benefit

in it for him.

He is probably sensitive to his Mercai-American ancestory as

indicated by his obvlous annoyances (albeit presented jokingly) at the fact that!

---

## Page 65

td-nn0d

be has not been invited out to lunch by any members of

company!

in the six weeks be has worked there.

He is probably not a detalled man

and is impressed by social position and wealth and consequently likes to!

function on a high level. Although there is no real reason to belleve that

TICHBORN may see another career ahead,

_feels there ia a possibility

that will try to hire him for his company or he may make contact:

in New York City which could lead to his getting a non-ClA job.

DC/ WH/6

Distributlon:

Orig - Tichborn

1 - Chrono

---

## Page 66

PROVAL DOTIFICT

BaavEr

S13..

CRIL OFFICER

Exit: -3.

4783'

ESPIRE

136

47:

ALI-CRIZATIO;

2

13 Jea1257.1967

Fon_L2223206 10-22 2053 1537

LOADITIONO UE APPROVAL

1567

1195

7192-3101

PIOGG DO.CE CDROVOd E La Erbani C 516, 600 100 D% 1967.

SICHATUNS

20Y. 23

0:418.04

FORM 8.19

'IE BREVIOUS '

2:Ta99a

532-0018

IVISIC

DISTRISUTION

OBERATINS

SECRET

CAgG

OFFICER

i a

17771

.3.

---

## Page 67

•віл і Поа послу.

iluf

•NiCa

Ix"1.s.Ea

:0₴

1510:3

'3 Oci, 1063

05

?ao4=

i=c=

IC :

120R0SA

le.es

CaiKa

"sp is ia

118/u

Aisrwie

iciam Te brodie

TETAGES Ci

CO.FONE5T3

-*iD

CuE:S

CCa:9PG

EE.9A

M2S/80/C3

M2SCBG

CPSER/P

C/DO

FERI0S

TÖct. 196G

1 30 June 1937

ASSiS:anE

Drgull Director lor Plaas

Ctd 101510ng

AFFiviR

LET THIS ACTIOY

$16, 000

SECRET

277206

CATE

isinc/ed

Ligictia

im52la

63461

7 Dee óó

FY

I407

SEVISEO TOr

3

1di67

tpireiniae i oiie

R0 2 02

---

## Page 68

Inizzals

Date

23/02/230

2. CG: 23

5/08:

Rioioct dane:

Count?:

cec)

6

2222

:222m

===---2=22=

Interanency Coordination:

ProC 01 A22=98

PiC avainazion

¡Officor

Iraco Foceired:

¡baio Duc

tor Disi

2 2224062.283

432006t

T0u5.

CO0IC06

(2)

corios

00: 4:

Gaband il nokias

2:729000

29x-452.

knicen

ando

6.02s

Prenote,

2.c0u0,

210200.0 ros 2040"02

ittiondi

Tros tot

Ci 101013

CasoR Era Groa410nc27.46665a10880 co386 21

Can,000 10oa 1 Cotecer 1055

Lici.

tis cad

: 208 Ti Crorodional Dresadu Conicino Eudioseat Lunds

do corco to Baojeci.

Taries Citt

cinco 20010

i miner il crono, coraily 60 citec-20rol concaldont in ci5bez6n

acciaries

SICOLOUS).

28 degust 1900 230221 Cas Ciliced do Logo Migralf rai

2is :.

c53tg

_1n

C:

vaich10

1301105 ace

cctiv.cico tu Latin Acaic7.

Uaron chie Covor, 1200-

D' 2012i continuo to ba avallablo sa siord notico for a varlotj of

E:1101001 -cunea (olcotion-10r50ds6) cacignonio, ao 10 do post

c-02a3an8o uniguo ability lo scivo CiA Osjocilico di.607

cicauc. dirations bas bcor agly doouionies.

und ance. NOSArINa aggoars roll suitod,

1010 01 11051

- 1263

L:

i cervicos in tho dacuso.

Beccaaoud Conioval.

SECRET

---

## Page 69

14-00000

TROJECT COACE

a. Malcation

Publical Action Suppori.

22695:22.

To sapport contace agent Edward C. TICHSO2N (2)

=o.260 Laccas a coveru action advisor and polical açuos agoni by

ID. ta aution tiCkbORd will be abadatio for cioction campers:

descare:, special pol deal surveys on solecied couries and ched alied

rescared securemens wich will unhee his potniual expertise and arca

accento.

c. Bocaround, In late 1659, 'TICINORN, a boiageal

lawyer vch considerable domestic polucal coperince, was larad as a

polical cucion advisor for agency-spcasorod election operations

assigned io mendeo Cly, under personni cover, mada poritied conce

warel redne on third county Posical action assigbazonts.

conced in goddeal operaidons in Cuba,

El Sarrador, Guatemaid,

Child arate Continena Republic.

licacqueens assot mn in audition co an excellen job ivi

Diction in are establishing and zumung a magazine cred ai

intellectuals, and second exportang a the activities and attitudes di Doze

Icing mclectuals. TiCHBOR has shown miniseù to be a very

intel-gent, agoing wmacad-dorcr.con with initiauve and encrsy nio has

rignly corcored polticil sensivili cs.

This projcci is being preser cd to cover uns salary and operavional

expenses ui Contract Agent Edward C. TICHEORN.

(0) Earsonnel. Eduard G. TICIDORN vas granted Operatorai

ApronT No. C-77u9 en 14 Oclover 1959, and tis cicarance vias

exterued or & Nevember 10065.

TICIZORN departed Mexico City ca LAugust 1036 for PCS

assigumer: to

wnere he will be empioyed for cover

purposes by the DO proprietary WUSALINE. WUSALINE is expanding

its activities into the Laun American area and can readily utilize ine

legal/economic backyround and area knowledge which TICHEORN

12.

---

## Page 70

Deodooook.

1:6 10d dudes at WOSaLINE cor cover ceiling parposes det ain

ce agaule int agency assignatas on Saon tonde. Mis testamed

Ancey/DICaGORN coladensaip with tie excepion of the principal agent,

VUBRIVY-1,

WUERINE-2 and WUSRINt-ll of lie WUSALINE proeci.

TICNDORY will cator on duty with WUSALiNE on i Casser isde.

(ai LieuDasS. The WUSALINE mochoion operates as a sao-

Arrangeronts for te use oi WUSALINE DY WIT Dinision nave caan

cuurainated with the DO office conse ned.

c. Security lineacateda:

It is estimated toat the danger oi a socurity

compron.ioe in this project is icinima!.

corce acuvides ir ViSALINE wich iit nis acadomic and arca interesis

and experience. WUSALING nas a scil establishod cover as a perioitie

pond los WosaLiFi cougary and las bed no socuri probiems vich

could adversely cicet de covor prot der TICHbORT.

There are no known security isks which could have boon passed

onion asicaper cover in presco hug as a consultant wath a increa

local 1111a.

The now WUSALINE covcr arrangemons wiil strengien

FICHEON's cover securily by permitting the income backstopping ard tha

operational and travol floxibility rec.ired in his assignmont.

in the event oi compromise, TiCHbORs probably would be discharged

faca WUSALINE in order to mirimize the damage to tat mechaisa.

Depending on the gravity of the comprorise, stops might be talea by WOSALiNE

to dison 'TICiSORs to protect the cover mechanist and WUSALTY.

AN LCFLUTTER test in May 1965 indicated that TICHBOR: iad

sold no one other than iis wife of his relationship with the Agency.

1. Coordination. Cooidination ouiside the Agency is not necessary.

---

## Page 71

-Haw. ...

_0: C025.- ( Gudder 1006 --20 June 1967)

..d Salary (017, 600/32:)

Travel (domestic and Itchie-

¡crol trarel incident io estan

Sanel and meintenance oi

his cover position)

$2, 750 (0 Inonths)

2, 250

1,000

and misceliancous expenses

TOTAL

$ 16,000

The agent will be funded as ioliows:

(1) Oren salary and recessary cover iratel cruenses vill be

Paid by WOSALIN on a montaly basis.

16) Wil Division will maite funds availabio to DO 10 cores

TICKLORN'S salary. DO wid pass trose iunds to WUSALIE trough

esting unone Cinnels.

(3) Cperauonal expenses will be reimbursed by the case oificer

direcry 1o the agent.

(*) The Agent will conforn to Agency requirements in all his

accourtings.

Annexes. "one of the special considerations listed unde: this

aeading is Moleable du this project

i. Ercinener Conditions, In vich of TICHEORN's iosation in the

U.s., no special pianning is required ior emergency conditions.

---

## Page 72

14-00000

IDEMIITIES

Eivard G. TICRBC&"

KUSALINE

(Project ?)

WUBRINY2

"USRINY-11

HUSALEY

852081

---

## Page 73

14-00000

- 8016

A MILE RID

SECRET

Da81

6735

27 Sept. • 1966

O NO MEET

O FILE IN ES FILE NO.

3 Г

17

DISSEM BY

File TO RETROY DREAMTO BRANCH

PAos

cour :

DIMESTOR

WH8

C RID COPY

INFO: Ma

CA/04.

C053, CSPS,

(CLASSIFICATIONS

(DATE AND TIME FILIDI

SECRET

ms C ES3, 504, SOlH3, CART

2722 15'Zi CITE DIRECTOR.

IRETERERICE NUMBERS

38623

7

TO

1. EDWARD G. TICHBORN (IDEN A) A LONG TINE DYVOUR COVRCI

AGENT FOR POLITICAL ACTION OPERATIONS HAS RECENTLY BEEN TRANS-

FERRED FROM MEXICO CITY AND ASSIGNED TO THE NEW YORK CITY OFFICE

OF HIS NET COVER ORGANIZATION WUSALINE (IDEN B) WHICH IS A DO

PROPRIETARY AND A SUBSIDIARY OF WUSALIFY (IDEN C). TICHEORN

WILL ACCOMPANY WUBRINY-I (IDEN D) THE WITTING HEAD OF FUSALINE

ON A BUSINESS ORIENTATION TRIP TO COSTA RICA, NICARAGUA, GUATEMALA

AND MEXICO CITY 3-10 OCTOBER

2. FOR STRICTLY BUSINESS PURPOSES TICHBORN AND NUBBINY -1

WILL PROBABLY INITIATE CONTACT WITH ENBASSY AND AID IN ALL

COUNTRIES. NO

CONTACT SUGGESTED BY HQS AND UNLESS

SHOULD SPECIFICALLY REQUEST CONTACT NO WOFACT PERSONNEL

• WILL BE IDENTIFIED TO TICHBORN ON THIS TRIP.

END OF MESSAGE

C/wH/ 1.

fC/WH/2

DOI

ILLIAL

RELEASING OFFICER

BROEY C/WH

CROUS !

Il us destrel trees artes

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITED.

VH/6

ZUTHTATICATING

OFFICER

copy 10.

201: 253203

---

## Page 74

6800

TOTAL COPIES:

SECRET

30

Anto:

? galT:

KH/6

ENT :

6735

•DATE:

27 Sept.

1966

DISSEN BY 4O

• PER

TROw: DIRECTOR

wH8

O RID COPY

CA/04, OSPS,

• ( CLASSIFICATION!

SE C RET

D INDEE

O NO INDEX

O FILE IN CS FILE NO.

15+15

• 7

O DESTROY

D RETURN TO

.. BRANCH

INFO: VA

• FILE

5 a/0G CAPEG

Cis3, 204,20H3, GAZ+

KARTE!

REFERENCE- NUMBERY

CITE DIRECTOR

38624

17

REF:

DIR 3862.3

IDENTITY A:

IDENTITY B:

IDENTITY C:

IDENTITY D:

END OF NESSAGE

CABLE SEC: • PLEASE REF ATTACHED CABLE.

C/WH/1

DO

WILILIAN V. BROE,

C/wH

*V'RELEASING OFFICER

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING

OFFICE IS PROMIBITED.

V6

TiNG

---

## Page 75

14-00000

SECRET

21 Septeaber 1966

i::":.

MEHO RANDUS FOR:

BUBJECT

:

Chief, WH Support

Edward G. Tichborn

1. Contract Agent Edward G. Tichbors, formerly assigned

to

station, departed that post

on 1 August 1966.

Eflective that date he

has been assigned PCS to New York City.

New York, to carry out political action taske as required by

TH Division and other operational componente of the Agency.

While located in Naw York City, ho will ba emploged for cover

purposes by the DOdS proprietary wuSALINs.

Incidont to this trensfer, WH Division has agreed

with Tichborn to an

Increase

in salary to 517,000 and & new

contract reflecting this anount as the new gross salary

should be prepared to be effective I October 1966.

contract should include a salary offset clause to insure

there will be no duplication of paymont and reflect the

various hospitalization and insurance benefits included la

the exteting contract.

3.

Salary paynents through 30 Septenber and other costa

arlaing fron hls transfer from Mexico City

to New York Clty

ahould bo charged to Project LiCoLIC.

A new project reflecting

the increase in salary will be prepared by Branch 6 to be

offective as of 1 October 1966, and salary as well as other

operational expenses incurred subsequent to that date should

be charged to the new project.

#H Division Branch 6 will have

responsibility for project management as of 1 October.

reactivated IH agent board for

C/HE/CA

SECRET

5564253263

---

## Page 76

.•,.

2..

SECRET

"we coit

treashame o100808 800-000099

21 September 1966

METORANTUM FOR: Chief, CI/OA

BUBJXCT

: Edward G. Tichborn (201-253203)

1. Contract Agent Edward G. Tichborn has been renssigned

PCS fron Mexico Clly to New Yori City an of 1 Auguat 1966.

For cover purposos in New York he will be employed by the

All necessary arrangement for

use of RUSALINE by WH Divinion has been coordinated with the

1o office concerned and Tichborn will fornally BOD wit

VUSALINE on 1 October 1966.

It la requested that tho operational clearance for

Tichtorn be anonded to roflect his transfer to New York Clty.

Ela prinary operational responsibilities will renais the

througkout Latin America, but he will no longer be connected

WITh tHE HIREAM project

which lus boen cerminated.

Branch 6 vill have project responalbility as of 1 October 1966.

C/VH/CA

Distribution:

Orig & 1-

1

2-1.

CI/OA

WH/Personnel

C/WH/CA

Chrot

chborn 201 P1l

SECRET

241-253703

---

## Page 77

BATHOLAR PERROR DATE REB -

199-9300

UNITED STATES GOVERYMENT

Memorandum

• TO

• ATTN •

.. WH/CA

FROM

SECRET

DATE:

6 September 1966

WH/Pers/Contracts

SUBJECT: Edward G. TICHBORN, Contract Compensation

extracted Fryu the contrace for Edward c. TiCHBORN,

the following has been

Independent

Contractor.

d.

Basic Compensation (salary) of $12,000. per annum.

(Increase was from 9 to 12 and based on his devotine almost

full time to Agency duties; contract does not provide offset

• of income from his business/cover.

b. Additional compensation for quarters of $3,000. per

annum and applicable only to initial permanent post of assign-

ment overseas.

Payroll has advised me they have

stopped paying this amount effective 1 August, his departure

•Tom MeXI

c.

Travel and Operational Expenses.

Will be advanced

or reimbursed funds on an actual, reasonable and necessary

expense basis for those expenses

incurred by you in connec

tion with

such travel

as may be directed or authorized by

the Governnent and while on

temporary duty away from your

permanent post of assignment.

Has Agency Contract health insur

Social security deductions are made at the race of

*.2% on the first $6,600. of basic compensation

2. The above confirme telento prended nonfarher

alice tis

13-s... 898

SECRET

261-253203

---

## Page 78

14-00000

in.

+1035

2 September 1966

The telephone number through which Edrard G. TICHBORI can be reached is as

follows:

Plo file Tickbara 201.

201-253203

---

## Page 79

1d-0d0d

• GLASSIFY TO FILE NO.

¡X-DEP TO PILE NO..

PILE HIDD

RET. TO BRANCH D

DESTROY

O sIc.

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

PERSON/UNIT MOT FIED

TOTAL COPIES

19

REPROOUCTION PROMIBITED

UNIT

T i hE

INFO

-4H8

FILE VR. Ol

& RID COPY

688080

SECRET 091895Z CITE I

8185

9 Aus 66 1: 7 3 1 42

DIRECTOR

REF: DIRECTOR 25344 &

STATION NOT IN TOUCH WITH TICHBORN'S SHIPPERS. SUGGEST

HEADQUARTERS AWAIT TICHSORN CONTACT AND INSTRUCT MIM DIRECTLY.

SECRET

SECRET

HEFER HE SHIPMEN

Tichbors

201-

2010253203

---

## Page 80

tal?

WR/1

EAT : 3654

O NO INDER

DATE S AMERIT PRE

DEO FILE IN ES FILE SO.

DISSEM BY

MESSAGE FORM -

TOTAL COPIES:

70

SECRET

201-

ROUTING

5

6

..2

3

I DESTROY D RETURN TO

no DRAM

TROM: DIRECTOR

cons: WH-8

LCLAMIICATIONL

4 SECRET

*TO

STRID COPY

INFO: 7a

• BILE

OP-2, ces- 3,

IS 0473-4440-746-7665

iS 20 3002 CITE DIRECTOR | 25844

REF:

8014 (IN 62196)*

RE PARA THREE REF, PLEASE DEFER SHIPMENT TICHBORN'S HHE PENDING-

RESOLUTION OF ASSIGNMENT.

END OF MESSAGE

*TICHBORN to contact

on arrival Washington.

Sta advancing

travel expenses, to include movement of his KHE which will be

accounted for in Hqs.

201-253203

Mian V. Broe

C/WHD

fATIH: TKH:201

CODADMATINE OFFICERS

1 OFFICER

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUINO OFFICE IS PROMIBITED.

C/Wa/1

• AUTHENTICATING

OFFICIA

---

## Page 81

47, 004

UNCLASSIFIED.

CONF TIAL

DO SECRET

UNLY

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT: (Optional)

FROM:

?...

EXTENSION

TO: lOfter designation, room number, and

DATE

RECEIVED

FORWARDED!

WFFICER 5

INITIALS

i,v

026052

Des hued.

fr tich animal

ngx

NO.

DATE

Bugs -

COMMENTS (Number each commons lo shom from atrom

to whom. Draw a line ocross column ofter soch comment)

I fine stopped the

Bespott +0814798806

orequestor

Tielborn Has laft.

When Ter in

wask, ple course

FINGHLEXILIBIO

He cor discals the

Sax.

10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

FORM

9-02

610 SOMENOUS

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

7010393763

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 82

Chlor of Blation,

Tan Areas - AIsErA Go TICINES - 1040535

RRY: 1020r - 6618 dated 6 May 1S66

manaitted hereuith 1o 1/1. 50-0273 dated 2 Aurt l6 In the Enorat

o $207.35, wich remorate tar vitrialog as fumet for home C

2. Uyon secalpe of spinnace and in tan assuman perceasana tro

y0689 1153, 1564 aRI 15650

Tor 100 Jarloù 12/1/45 - 7/31/69 lnesquarter has viiiela

g11v3-00, but the no pasedrosal i cly 11041.25 111-96 01

TOSS CAlery sE $0150.J), tro e rurun dua Rablock in tie

CErt 62 1147-54.

Suerrers,

station pay ICon the 414T-st, sad aleo bechonies with

the salery dus toy too bonds da tagut 2506 picoes e

SIXS

TAX

$1003-40

$50,00 1133.3

40.63

$1052.02

k, It to ached by Boodumer, true the Senilca 1o util

Tue Fredlan suaula here wire a deduerson

(4a71.20) tor 1050.

Jub fort sy FIci that uss vithald a ter a delictios ot $14. 70 for Fus

110t 117100r

3 = 601

Ea930

SECRET

8/2/66

2213

1

APB/CrAS

RI/ DP

o/recletry

---

## Page 83

DESPATCH

Cret Matton,

Paler, 10l Civision

Urder 2 station

AAR Ironce • Mexico C207 7/A 29-07 12, 229-7% 2ixer

1CM: 8444932914

1CHSCH

irananieted harexith 1e subject 5/4 and ocountine. Racelnta sier

negarate core.

2o Tha accountine 13 In Pora o° unal TICHRY daroday actual erpenses

Ner dier 1315o

I le reproceed trot mCleor 11iraos in tune/fuly delayed

sundesion ot subject accuinting and that sottlement could not bo tee until his

29 july departure loS lendarton.

strachport:

idabalhution:

2 ma CCS,

1 - Chlor, ED,. K/ats

w/att

CODSS REfERENCE FO

DESPAICH SINGTE AND ALMDER

_1N99-700A

CASSHICATIDA

SECRET

281: 253203

DATE

2 Nusunt 2956

HOs FRE HUNGER

---

## Page 84

TARDANO PARA 10S, 64

SECRET

Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO

: C/WH/1

DATE: 25 July 1966

FROM :

WH/Pers/Contracts

SUBJECT:

Edward G

TICHBORN,

Travel Orders

REFERENCE:

8014, 22 July 66

Recommend you cable Station to defer shipment TICHBORN®s

HE pending resolution of assignment.

Per telecon withI

travel of TICHSOR vas all riske

on July 22, he indicated the

I have theretore assumed the

same pertains to travel of dependente

crised

e3: 1

SECRET

m.1310323

2ir 253705

---

## Page 85

INDEN!

O YES DHO

CLASSIFY TO FILE NO.

FILE NO. M

FILE AIDD

RET, TO BRANCH O

DESTROY LO SIG.

OSSE Br22

ACTION

INFO

WH8

FILE VE

CLASSIFDED MESSAGE

SECRET

PERSON UNIT NOTIFILD

TOTAL

COPIES

7

REPRODUCTION PROMIBITED

ADVANCE COPY

UNIT

TIME

DJ RID COPY

D0 po/H3, CS/PS, CS/PS, CCS3, CA/PROP, CA/PROP, TR

SE CRE T 2222127 CITE

DIRECTOR

LIREAM LICOLIC

*RE TICH BORN COUER

POSITION

REF DIRECTOR 21594

TICHBORN SHOWN PARAS ONE AND TWO OF REF;

WILL CONTACTL

ON

ARRIVAL WASHINGION. PLANS LEAVE MEXICO BY POV ABOUT 1 AUGUST.

2. TERMINATION LIREAM AND ITS PUBLICATION NEARING COMPLETION,

PROCEEDING SMOOTHLY SO FAR. STATION WILL PASS FUNDS DIRECTLY AS

NEEDED FOR FINAL WRAP UP.

3. WILL ADVANCE TRAVEL EXPENSES, TO INCLUDE MOVEMENT HHE.

TICHEORN WILL ACCOUNT AT HQS.

SO NARRATIVE EVALUATION IN PREPARATION. WILL FWD ASAP.

SECREI

BT

201253703

---

## Page 86

SECRET

in:

.:* 1966

MBNORANDUM FOR: Central Cover Stafi, Non-Official Cover

SUBJECT

: Cover for Edward G. Tichborn

Edward G. Tichborn, a Contract Agent, 1s presently

assigned to

Statton under von-official, personal cover.

Ho la in Mexico ostenaibly as a consultant with & Mexican

least fira and acta

xic has requested reassignsent

to the United States, preforably the Last Const and particularly

the New York Clty

ares.

Bh Division has concurred in hig

request to loave lexico City in mid-hugust 1066 and desires

to arrango suitable

cover which would perult rapid disengagenent

at any tine fron regular day-today cover dutles to undertake

temporary duty seigmente throughout vitin Anerica at the

request of this Division.

2.

Wa Livialon in its Investiration of cover possibilities

diacussed the problen with

20/18,

J CA/3 and

DODS.

Investirated

the poselbility of Tichborn's assirent to the

have seen

in cable traitic,

Icane up with a possibility

of assigning Tichborn to HUSALINE.

On the baule of information nade avallablo

WH Division belleves the UNSALINE proposal has merit and wishes

to develop this cover proposal further.

It would appear that a

satisfactory resolution at this tine ultimately reste upon WH

Division agreenent with Tichborn on teras of his contract,

prImarily salary.

and WUSALINE agreenent that Tichborn's back-

ground is of sufficlent depth to provide a nodicus of credibility

and his personality is of such a nature that he would be compat

Ible with the principal agent.

Thie will be resolved after

Labor Day when Tichborn will be In the United States and the

WUSALIN& principal agent vill have returned fron a vacation

which he is starting about l August.

In the neantine, in cos

pllance with regulatloas for the establishment of non official

cover, the following background information is provided concerning

Tichborn and is keyed to your memorandun, "Non-Offictal Cover

Request":

SECRET

---

## Page 87

SECRET

A. 'Goneral Information:

1) Edward G. Tichkorn, Central cover has been

queried concorning possible covers to be usod

by him for a nunber of TDYs in Latin America

an vell us for his original location in lexico.

2)

Contract Agent; $12,000 por annua with a housing

allowance at present of $3,000. ile contract

19 now under revier.

3) Ho is fit for overseas duty.

4) To the knowledge of officern presently avallable

In the it Division, he has alwaye opereted

under personally arranged, non-officlal cover.

However, the Central Cover Staff his provided

a nor-attributable funding channel for transier ..

Of KUBARK funds to the tichborn operations on

a nunbor of occanions.

The information should

bo available ie Coatral Covor Staff files.

5) Approximately 1 September 1966.

6) M1d-August 1989.

7)

There is no project at present.

Authority for

the relocation of this Indiridual uili bo

Included in orders transferring him fros Hexico.

Following this and ble establishment under the

proposed Huskhind or other cover, a project

wall be written.

B.

Biographie Inforantion

1).

3)

Hale; Caucasian; Catholie; V.S.; married;

three children; Mexico City, d.I, Mexico;

Los Angelos, California,

Wife and three children prosently in residence

with hia 1n sexico City.

3)

- 2 .

SECRET

---

## Page 88

1d-0d0d

4)

5)

6)

Bee attached nemorandas.

See attached menorandan.

tremely progarious; highly presentable;

Intellectual interests.

7)

Not known.

8) Extensive travel in Latin America and

Caribbean area both privately and under

KUBAAK sponsorship (see attached lenorandua).

9) B1-lingual ia Spanish and has a snattering

of Wrench, Gerana and sone Fortuguese.

c.

Security Coasiderations:

1) BUDARK enploynoat initiated in 1959 and he

has maintained tils association since then.

Security approval me luat granted by

KUDESK/DA on & November 1905.

This approval

wan gayon to? his use in "

... pubilahing sad

furnishing intellectual guidance [

magazine

and furnishing it information oi

the intelligentsia of lexico."

Apparently

derogatory information, developed or providod

by Tichborn, was resolved in an ICHUTTER

given in hexico City on 14 May 1355, a copy

of chich ia avatlable in hia 201 file.

. 2)

3)

Ho is awaro that he is in the employ of KubAl

Not known.

4) In ICHLUTTER it was revealed that his wife

was the only individual to whom he has

revealed his relationship with KUBARk.

5)

G)

7)

Not known.

Hot know.

Not known but it is highly doubtful that ho

has ever utilized such cover.

8)

It 1s plannod that he will remale in non-

official cover.

,*) not applicable.

SECRET

- 3

---

## Page 89

SECRET

10)

ule wife who la witting (soe C 1 above).

11)

le carries KUBARK 11kc and hospitalization

Insurance, Me wife ts listed as benefielary.

12) # A

13) His rile le vitting but no formal clearance

procedure has been inttlated.

Last LCILUTTER

was on 14 May 1965.

D. Operational Information

" Me present caned to uver Taubern

he will be utilized

In bighly sensitive political operations.

It is not planned to nake ary other individual

r organication in the United statos victin

of tho KUBARK/Tichborn relationship with th

excArtion olehe principal açout as the

3)

Location: New York City.

3)

He should be fulficiontly mobile to persit

his travol to any country in the vorto. bui

particularly latin Auerica and Africa.

day strata of comercial or political 11r

n Latin inerica or africa

5) Contract to resontly being negotiated but

hin salary will be on the 514,00 to $15,000

• level.

6) Cannot be judged at present.

7)

Not know at present. However, comunications

for this type operation ia usually directly

to and through the Chief of Station.

B)

As noted above, the MUSALINE. cover would appear

be excollent for Tichborn.

W1ll1an V. Broe

Chief,

SECRET "eatera Healsphere DIviBion

Attachment: A stated

---

## Page 90

14-00000

SECRE?

BIOGRAPHIC DATA SHEET - ELAND G. TICHBORN

1s billogual and has a vide

ald social contacts throuxbout Latdn Anerica.

Folloning graduation from

Tichborn

• became affiliatod with a law firm In Los Angeles which repro

sented many latio inerican corvorations will Calllornta business

connectiong.

political action

througheut latin America.

3.

Tichborn has contributed stortes, articles and inter-

views to a variety of United States publications.

An interyleu

by Tichborn

appeared in a recent edition of |

and & lichborn essay

concerning the cultural dichotomy wauer uhich Mexicaa Americana

extet, vill appear ta an early edition

pubaication.

He in workine on a sertes of articles and a book

on the population problem in latin America and 1a considering

a book on Mexican political institutions,

particularly the

Partido Lovolucionario Institutional (PEI).

SECRET

---

## Page 91

SaCRET

At present Ilchborn runs a

left vias intellectual publication (ukall).

Bration funded

His cover in

Morico ts nontril and be ittributes bia presence and activities

prinaraly to his connectiong in the legal fiold through hia

forser partnor's law

firm and his orn intellectust intereste

SECRET

---

## Page 92

14-00000

SECRET

_(18 July 1965)

Distribution: (Attachnent to all addees)

Orig

Central Cover Staff

C/WM/1

1:

1:

1:

1:

TH Registry (via CIH)

C/WH/CA

WH/CA (

*I CasaBel Chron)

DO/CO

SECRET

5

---

## Page 93

алл лірамічі-

i .

4015 44/4;

INDEs: DYes Do

CLASSIFY TO FILE NO.:

J-REE TO FALE MD.

PILE HIDE REY. TO BRANCH O

DESTROY

DO S16.

"CLASSIFIED HESSAGE, 3

SECRET

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

Resenten

ACTION

WH8

& RID COPY

1H70

FILE LA DUP A DAP DEZ S006

TOTAL COPIES

ADEANCE COPY

REPRODUCTICY PRONIBITED

UNIT

T INFE

20 JuL 66 # 6 0 475

SE CRE T 201815Z CITE

7978

INFO DIRECTOR

1385((N54355)1

REFERENCE

EMARGOSY/EMFICTION

TICKBORN ACCTE FOR 53,084. 71 AGAINST

WILL BE T/AD WITHIN ONE WEEK.

SECRET

AND

ADVS

subsin;

*AUDIT PENDING.

3982G

7253203

32700

---

## Page 94

cd-dono

WESSANG TU

TOTAL COPIES: 22

SECRET

exT :5006

Daring JULY 1966

DISSEM BY

40

PER

FROM: DIRECTOR

sant: 1211+8

cilors

ICLASSIFICATIONI

ECRET

O FILE RD

O FILI W ES FILE NO.

#

ROUTING

5

raud

2

8

O DESTROY.. C RETURN 70 BRANCH

TO|

O RID COPY

INFO: VA

IDATE AND TIME PILED).

FEMON REFERENCR NUMBER)

20 22 d0'z

CITE - DIRECTOR

21594

REFS: A.

7859 (IN 55174)

B. HINT-6826, 9 JUNE 1966

1. YOU MAY INFORM TICHBORN THAT NEXT STEPS IN ESTABLISHHENT NEW

COVER ARE AS FOLLOWS:

A. ARRANGE MEETING BETVEEN TICHBORN AND WUBRINY/I TO PERMIT

LATTER'S DIRECT ASSESSSENT TICHBORN. THIS NOT POSSIBLE UNTIL AFTER

6 SEPTELBER DUE WUBRINY/1 VACATION PLANS. HQS WILL ARRANGE THIS MEETING

AS SOON

AS PRACTICABLE.

B. HQS AND TICHBORN WILL HAVE TO AGREE ON LATTER'S COMPENSATION.

TWENTY THOUSAND DOLLARS SENTIONED REF & REACHES SOMEWHAT HIGH

C. OBVIOUSLY ABOVE MEANS THAT WE ARE ANXIOUS RETAIN TICHBORN'S

SERVICES BUT THIS SEOULD NOT BE CONSTRUED AS A COMITVENT FOR EXPLOYMENT

BEYOND THE 19 NOVEBER 1966 EXPIRATION DATE OF HIS CURRENT CONTRACT.

2. TICHEORN SHOULD CONTACT

PRIOR 6 SEPTEJBER TO ARRANGE •

CONSULTATION EQS RE HIS CONTRACT AND DETERMINE TIMING PROPOSED MEETING

WITH WUBRINY/1.

COORDINATING OFFICERS

CACUP

AUTNEI

#TICATING

BELEASING OFFICER

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITED.

tony 10.

001.253703

---

## Page 95

MESSANE SUNA

TOTAL COBIES:

BIG-

CAT:

DISSEN BY

O FILE RID

D INDEX

D HO INDEX

I FILE IN ES FILI NO.

ROUTIG

5

6

8

• PEA -

(CLAGGIFICATION)

O DESTROY O RETURN TO

BRANCH

DJ RID COPY

• FILE

(ELITES

(DATE AMD TIME FILES)

TWO

CITE DIRECTOR

21594

PAGE

3. REQUEST STATION PREPARE FITNESS REPORT OR NARRATIVE EVALUATION

TO BE AVAILABLE HERE PRIOR TICHBORN ARRIVAL. THIS SHOULD BE SPECI

FICALLY DIRECTED TO ASSESSMENT TICHBORN CONTRIBUTION STATION OBJECTIVES

OVER ENTIRE PERIOD HIS ASSIGNMENT MEXICO.

END OF MESSAGE

VS Comment:

Ref A.

Ref B.

Advised Tichborn interested WUSALINE cover

assignment.

Forwarded Tichborn proposal for possible cover

company and stated he interested in salary in

$20,000 range.

(chine)

WH Personnel

DODS L

WILLIAN V. BROE

C/WHD

RELEASING OFFICER

COOROIAATIBG

REPRODUCI

SECRET

•BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFIG....

PROMIBITED.

AUTHÉNTICATINE

OFFICER

---

## Page 96

JU&V

INDEX DYEs

D NO

CLASSIFY TO FILE NO.

*-REF TO

FILE RIDD

HEY, TO BRANCH D

DESTROY D/ SIG.

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

Dissembyn

ACTION

ADVANCE COPY

WH-S

X RID COPY

THFO

FILE, VR, DDP, Addl, QF-z, S0D4

TOTAL COPIES

21

ISCAUCED PRUNE ALTTOAIATH

REPRODUCTION PROfIBITED

UNIT

TIME

SECRET 129035Z CITE

:385

CHRONO DETACHED

INFO DIRECTOR

EMARGOSY/EMFICTION

i20oe 5:255

REFEPENCE :

JOSA/IN

34674)

1• DUE IMPENDING AUDIT, STATION

WOULD APPRECIATE

OBTAINING APPROPRIATE ACCOUNTING ANDAR REFUND

FROM EDWARD O. TICHBORN FOR $775. DO ADVANCED

DURING APRIL ($375) AND MAY / 5400) 66 FUNDS ADVANCED

REPRESENTED PER DIEM AND OPS EXPENSES INCURRED TOR FRICE

TICHBORN TDY SANTO DOMINGO IN SUPPORT OF EMARCOSY ACIIVITIES.

2à

APPRECIATED.

SECRET

EARLY ACI-ION AND CABLE REPLY WOULD BE

Arequest sin

BT

308-253203

file Tichtien

201-

---

## Page 97

14-00000

SODERE

Dres Elve.

CLASSIPY TO PILE 90G -95320 5) CLASSIFIED HESSAGE G

-RUP TO FIST NO.

DILE 810 D

SECRET

ERSON/UNIT MOTIFIEO

RUSSEM BLEE

18. /09 1066

€T101

ADWANCE

4H8

& RID COPY

18F6

FILE, UR, DO 4, 00/1.3, CCS 3,

IB8UCG

TOTAL COPIES

0s l

REPRODUCTION PROMIBITES

BY

•88Ge8

SECRET !22246Z CITE

12J8M55174

DIRECT OR

*RE COVER EMPLOYMENT

LICOLIC

IN NEW YORK FOR

REF DIRECIOR 18832

TICHBORN

TICHEORN ENTHUSIASTIC REF COVER POSSIBILITY, WHICH HE

CONSIDERS-EXCELLENILY SUITED TO OPS REQUIREMENI AND TO HIS

OWN BACKGROUND AND QUALIFICATIONS. REQUESTS HIS NAME EE PROPOSED

• AS LATIN AMERICAN SPECIALIST FOR WUSALINE•

2. NO SPECIFIC IDENS GIVEN HIM.

SECRET

BT

701-753203

12 July, 1966

---

## Page 98

seat.

IX8: 500G

SATI: 8 JULY 66

DISSEM BY Li, PER -

FAGM:

DIRECTOR

CONFI

wHt 8

(CLASSTPICATIONS

→ SECRET

O FILE RIO

D MOLE

Z" NO INDEX

D FILE IN CS FILE NO.

JESSAGE FORM

TOTAL COPIES: 7%

SECRET

CONTING

i31

• DRESTROY D RETURN 50 - DRANCH

D RID COPY

18832

Coord

INFO: DOST/WASHINGTON

1.

SUGGEST STATION ADVISE

TICHBORN THAT EQS CONTINUING REVIEW

COVER EXPLOYHENT POSSIBILITIES IN NEMAYORK AREA WHICH CONPATIBLE

HIS EXPERIENCE AND EXPRESSED INTERESTS. FOR STATION INTO, BEST

LOOKING PROSPECT AT PRESENT IS KUBARK PROPRIETARY INVESTENT AND

INVESTITNT CONSULTING FIRM (HUSALINE), IDEN A, WICH OPERATES WITH

SEVERAL PRIVATE COMPANIES UNDER THE UMBRELLA OF HUSALIFY (IDEN B),

A RESPECIED INVESTHENT BANKING FIRM. TILE PRESIDENT OF HUSALINE AND

PRINCIPAL AGENT IS WUBRINY/1 (IDEN C). WUSALINE ESTABLISHES

INVESTIENT CONSULTING AFFILIATES ABROAD AND MAXES EQUITY INVESTIENIS

FOR XUBARÍ PURPOSES. IT DOES NOT NOW HAVE A LATIN AMERICAN SPECIALIST

ALTHOUGH A WIDE ARZA OF INVESTIIENT AND INVESTIENT CONSULTING

POSSIBILITIES EXISE. THESE INCLUDE ARRANGEMENTS FOR INVESTHENT IN

SHORT TERM PAPER, CONSULTING ON WORKERS BANKS, ESTABLISENENT OF

ECONOMIC PUBLICATIONS, INITIATION OF PROJECTS FOR UNIT COVER, ETC.

2. TICHBORN COULD BE CONSIDERED POSITION LATIN AMERICAN

• SPECIALIST IF HE INTERESTED AND BACKGROUND

SUFFICIENT. HE WOULD BE

Til TICHBORN.201

CACUP!

RELEASING OFFICER

COORDINATiNG OFFICE

SECRET

REPRODUCTION DY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE " PROHIGITED.

AUTHENTICATING

OFFICER

261253203

---

## Page 99

€416:

DATE:

DISSEM DY -

- PER -

F901:

DIRECTOR

CONF:

SECRETION

O FILE RID

O NO "*Cx

CO TILE IN - FILE HO.

WESSAGE F02%1

TOTAL COPIES:

SECRET

ROUTI•2

5

7

O RID COPY

INFO: VA

0...

• FILE

TDATE ANS SHE FILEST

O DESTROY

TREFER

STUMENT

18852

CITE DIRECTOR

INFO:

DOST

7

PAGE THO

LOCATED WUSALINE OFFICE NEW YORK AND HAVE MOBILITY REQUIRED DYVOUR

PURPOSES. TICHBORN AND WUBRINX/I HAVE

COITION BACKGROUND OF FARVARD

LAN SCHOOL, EXPERIENCE PUBLISAING INTELLICTUAL GAZINE AND KENNEDY

CAMPAIGN ACTIVITIES.

3. ON BASIS ABOVE OUTLINE, PIS DISCUSS COVEZ IN GENERAL TIRIS

WITH TICHBORN WITHOUT DISCLOSING SPECIFIC IDENTITY FIRM OR PRINCIPAL

AGENT AND LET US KNOW HIS REACTION. FYI IN YOUR TALK WITA HIM YOU.

CAN INPLY THAT $20,000 TAG TICHBORN PUTS ON HIS SERVICES FOR US

APPEARS NOT TOO REALISTIC.

END OF MESSAGE

WILLIAM V. BROE

C/WHD

RELEASING AFFIGER

DODST

SUBSTANCE)

CCOROINATINI

SECRET.

IN

C/WH/CA

AUTHEUTICATING

OFFICER

E I PROMIGITED.

---

## Page 100

14-00000

500G

S JULY 66

SSLM BY -

26 PIR

bes. DUHECTOR

• 28:

(148

C1 Fu Pig

D INDEE

• NO INDEX

O FI-R IN CS FILE NO.

MESSAGE FORK

TOTAL COPIES:

SECRET

ACUTING

7

O DEETROY DIRETURN TO M DRANCH

O RID COPY

LiFO: YA •FILE

TOATE NO THE MEABA, COSS, CAR PEAR ANNIEN

19 16 215Z) CITE DIRECIOR

18833

INTO: DOST/WASHINGTON

7

7

REF: DIR 1*832

IDEN. A:

IDEN B:

IDEN C.

CABLE SEC:

END OF MESSAGE

PLS FILL I.. "IR NUMBER OF ATTACHED CABLE.

LIAM V. BROE

Vc/WaD

RELEASING OFFICER

"DODST

17/10

IN SUBSTANCE)

BY PHONE)

COORDINATING OFFICES

SECRET

ERCUJP!

Hostelad 6ort 5015748108

issaged drag are

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIDITED.

C/YE/CA

AUTHENTICATING

OFFICEA

GOPY Ad.

---

## Page 101

. :

s gail, lo.

'l'amo Fos 6/ 9/ 3à

Julifact, : Ieiboen Cmo'cror

-In falimmn trour comorantion o: 30 June, I contäclrd

08.01/3-07.30-J029;

and

or Do lasión on 5 July a

0f Si/3-on 5 and 6 July;*

-Gotert Actinn312015

tnd_indioatalenoosihalit7-thoe-mipt-torasint coan-för

Fichborn it

Denestie aps Meafquarterg -

Zrastig Srg Lasiln-ton:

.I talkel rith

801-253703

concorning his ojact and ha stated thet he:

diaing

•Abústréidco daiamasoo.

meaheatinnidns

---

## Page 102

do::: liscisa

Richborn with des li san win aalienand falte in iashin ton on!

stated that 1o na: oi Ilebrora and had a fairly cont iriss of

Big Cavions

ex-erience. I

TaTo him a ceneral maine of has elation ent amarieno?

89-1h0n5

mell a fort denlo madenent conce ning this alratch

becauso anracarily-hia.peincisal.neasty-nicit.deilam?.tha.g.me-@cheatfonal-und

_inb oo riense trall as hed tich e

nrectico with sall fim; Intelicotl leusing and ultimate connection vita

said that he inna bo in knick with mo on 8 July ta let me

For sat the ros tits of his prelimanry sumitra are

---

## Page 103

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATICA

SP.CRET

PROCESSING ACTIONE

10

Chief of Station,

1480

FROM

28.

NO INODUNG REQUIRED

DALT QUALIFILD DESA

CAN AUDGE INDEXING

Chief, W D1v101on

BUBJECT

Edward O. TICHBORN"

ACTOR REQUIRED - REFERENCES

ACTION REQUIREDE

ENCROFILE

See below

MICROFILMED

Jüt 10.1966

REFERENCES...

B.

2020

6828

DOC. MICHE. SER.

Edward G. TICRBORN spent June 1 and 2 in the Headquarters aras and

departed the noming of 3 June for an overnight atop in Dallas before his

return for Mexico alty.

Prior to his departure, TICIBORN was advanced $100

which sill be Tad to the Station for final accounting.

2. Marine his stopover here, he net with representatives of the

Deak as well as DYYOUR Stalf and

Branch pergonnel.

In these debriefinge ve touched specifically on his activities in connection

with the Dominican Republic electlon; his estimate of the outcome of this

olections his plans for the future, particularly his departure from Mexico:

the termination of LIREAM; and hie proposal for the contimation of his

rolationship with KUBARK.

- 8o Domindean Republic Flection:

Although TICHBORN painted a rather bleak pieture of the possible

resulte of the eloction,

his comments concerning the situation

pertaining at the time of his departure from the laland contributed

to Headquarters understanding of developments in the dave immodiately

preceding the election and on the election day. The DYVOUR Staff

represontative and the l

Branch representatives

specifically commended IICHRORN for the excellent work he had done

during his temporary assignment to the Dominion Republic in connection

sd th

this election operation.

B. INCHBON Futures

We discussed TICHBOPN's personal situation and desires for the

future at some length. Although not being able to offer specific

pronises of long-term employment on his terns at this time, we adviaed

him that the Ageney would probably have recurring requirements, albelt relatitely

Infrequent, for a man with his talents and experience.

However, the

limited roquirement for such specialized activity in the DYVOUR area

CPOSS REFERENCE TO

DISPATCH SYMBOL, AND NUMBER

17444a

923

0-50-126-35/3

HMM% -21:638

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

ORIGINATING

TYSYST

OFFICE

SH A

DATE

17 JUN 190$

9 June 1966

HQS FILE NUMBER

201-253203

201-253203

EAT.

3655

COORDINATING

OFFICE STYEOL

DATE

OFFICERS MAVE

1 = Chrono

RI- (1 - 201-253203 1)

(1 = 50-12636/3)

AN

FI

PS

DEST

ABSTRACT

CENDEN

JFFICL SYMAX

DATE

RELEASING

OICER S SANATURE

Here kaula

recite

---

## Page 104

14-00000

CONTINUATION OF

DISPAÏCH

CLASSITICATIORS

SECRET

DISPATCH SY ABCA AND NO.

HИHW14632-

would probably require & broadening of his horisons to inclade under-

Lalding actlvities in rasponse to roquiremonte from non DYVOUR areas.

TICHBORN indioated some reservation concearing this polat as well as

stating a definite lack of Interest In TDY ansignmente which would

roquire his to be away Iron hia fandly for protracted periodo.

Cover and feeeees

VICHBORN explained his present thindag concerning

do Terination of LIRAN

Readquarters will be interested in seeing the promised outline and

any refinement of the

TICHBORN might develop and requeste that the Station follow up on his

arreement to prepare such a paper for transnittal to Hsadquarters.

ot111 Investigating the requirements In other Divlelong for the type

expartise affered by TICHBORN and, followdng receipt of his written proposal, we

111 be bettar able to come up with a definite deciaion concerring what form

the LICRBORN KUBAK relationship alght take in the future.

In the meantime,

be assured that no speed le comtment for contimed employrent or subaldy of

relocation or resettlement costs were made during TICIDORN a TDY.

17 JON 13D

FORM

10 5 490

Distribations

0r1g & 1 = 00S_

SEAN OS BION

TASE NO

---

## Page 105

CLASSIFICATIOO

NO

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

SXPARATE COVER ATTACHHRHT TO:

184X-14638

IDENTITIe

MICROFILNED

JÜL 18. 1965

LeoC. MICRE SER

CS COPY;

SCAT*, TO IMPAW

USE PREVIOUS EDMON

105 530

BEFLACES FOEAS

38-20 $:258 AND $1-29 |

201-253703

CLASSIFICATION

---

## Page 106

i put see

DI TES

• no

TD

PALE

89.

PILE HIDD

RIT. TO BRANCH D

DESTROY DIE.

CL

FIED. MESSAGE S

SECRET

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

Istan fU 301 1

WH8

& RID COPY

BAFO

FILE, JR, D/M 52, CI/OA, SECUR Y

TOTAL COPIES

REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

ISSUED

SECRET 150010Z CITE

DIRECTOR INFO

7621

15 Ju: 00 : 37527

LICOLIC

FYI

TICHBORN

WILL UNDERSO SURGERY FOR

16 JUNE, WILL NOT BE AVAILABLE FOR DUTY UNTIL APPROXIMATELY 25 JUNE.

NO COMPLICATIONS ANTICIPATED, LOCAL ANESTHETIC.

SECRET

ISECRET

BT

NNNN

Tres

Kittidge

201253203

---

## Page 107

14-00000

we had.

TO

DEFO

DISPATCH

Chief, WHD

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

XX

PROCESSING ACTION

MARNED FOR ODEXAS

NO LADDING REQUELO

DELY QUALETICE LEST

Chief of Station,

XX

SUBJECT

Memorandun from TICHBORN Regarding his Proposed Activitles in New York

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

Forwarded herewith is a memorandum from Edward G. TICHBORN

regarding his proposed activities

in New York

as requested by

Headquarters on his reçent TDY. There are no Station traces on

the Antonio kenendez

mentioned on

page

two of the attached

memorandum.

Attachment:

As Stated (REREWITH)

Distribution:

2 - WHD w/att hu

3 - Files

CROSS REFERENCE TO

DISPATON SYMBOL AND NUMBER

HMMT-6826

CLASSFICATIONS

SECRET

DATE

9 June 1966

HQS FILE NUMBER

50-6-116/1

---

## Page 108

* 8, 06; la ris

FROM : Tichborn

IN RE: Proposed sctivities in lew York

din

c) Prepare an in-depth study of crowing rolitical

unrest in lexico,

particularly analyzing the

inner working: of PRI. Several recent incidents

---

## Page 109

(vadrazo's forcei rosipnation fron PRI: thei

rur-iva! riots at the lational Cniversity which

coepelled Chavez to rogien; the increaged number

of paracaidista

sruattere on private landg;

caspegino revolt: in Northern Mexico) indicate

that the faned political stability of l'exico

ma be facing trouble soon.

reedlers to gay,

such an ominous possibility should be atudied

and analyzed in freat depth.

No Fexican political

obeerver would dare produce a truly candid atudy

but 1'm

gub-roga

coungal

no ald of Antonio renendez a rifted and pel

contive

Tjean To PrOte MOVII IZACICH SOCIAL

•enendez,

Le cow director or tope rate merch writer,

Ingtituto Nacional de Seguro Social and also

head of the Consejo Nacional de Publicidad.

This long-range project would probably

reruire about two years, takire into account

my aforementioned political trips.

---

## Page 110

14-00000

d) Additional costs on l'exico project (narafraph 2g)

•do jee: 10r Antonio lenerdez, about 42,500 payaole

in two installnents..

2.

Two tring to lexico for congultation. with

Venerdez as work progreeses:

plane fare would

• be $256 per trip, plus about $150 experses for

four or five days.. Total for two trips rould

Secretarial help,

only part-time: about $750

per year, for a total of £1,500.

4. Tape recorder and tapes for two-year period:

about $200.

• Costs of reference books and reriodical:

bout $150

Over-all total would be S5,150

---

## Page 111

5- JUN 1566

SECRET

REASSIGNMENT QUESTIONNAIRE

Name: Edward G. TICHORN

Grade:

Pass

Contract Agent

$12, 000 Balary

3,000 housing

$15, 000

Current Assigment:

Non-official cover (Personal), Mexico City.

He directe

• Station funded, left wing Intollectual magazine (LIRBAN)

and is on call for TDY assignments throughout wIl.

Cover Illstory:

TICIBORN has alvays operated under personal, non-official

cover.

In TDY assignments,

he has asked for sone cover help

from the Staions but usually he is strictly on his ow.

Personal Circumstances:

He has indicated personal preference for fast Coast

U.S, where he would bo avallable for short TDY assignments.

Type of work preferred:

Political action,

gathering political infornation,

• cultivation of left wing Intellectuals fr operational

use.

Training desired:

None at present. Deponds upon luture assigment.

Areas or countries of particular interest:

See

"Personal Circumstances!

Special considerations:

See attachnont.

201-253703

Date:

81gned:

BECRET

C/wa/1

---

## Page 112

SECRET

1.

TICHBORN, 1s bilingual and has a wide range of

business and social contacts throughout Latin Anerica.

Follow.

ing graduation fros

I TICHBORN

became affiliated with a law firm In Los Angelea which

represented many Litin Aerican corporations with California

busineas connections.

In late 1959, TICKBORN was hirod by the Agency as a

Joperation as

Tre a tea a tered tie one no one sation en

handled this assignment the way TICHBORN did. "

3.

(TICHBORN has contributed stories, articles and

Interviews to a variety of United States publications.

Interview by TICHBORN of L

appeared in a recent edition of

and a -TICHBORN-

will appear in an early edition |

publication. He is working on a series of articles

and a book on the population problen in Latin merica and is

considering a book on lexican political inatitutions,

particularly the Partido Revolucionario Institutional (PRI).

BECRET

---

## Page 113

SECRET

At present TICHBORN runs &l

Station funded

left wing intellectual publication (LIRA).

Els cover

1n Mexico 1s nominal and he attributes his presence and

activitles prinarily to his

connections in the legal fleld

through his former partner's lav firm and his own

intellectual intereste.

ECRET

---

## Page 114

14-00000

D 40

CRASSIFY TO FILE NO.

I-BEF

TO

ND.

FILE HIDD

REY. TO BRANCH D

DESTROY. D 516.

CLASSIFSED MESSAGE

SECRET

PERSOM/UNIT, NOTIFIED

ACT DISSEM RY 59

Turo WH 8

I RID COPY

FILE; VA, DDP, ADDE, 50D 6a

ADVARCE COPY

TOTAL COPIES

REPRODUCTION PROMIBITEO

S

DR

POTT

SECRET 040015Z CITE

INFRO DIRECTOR

1094

N Jun 66 l:. 30676

EMARGOSY

.. Lo WOULD APPRECIATE IT IF STATION COULD OBTAIN, AND FORWARD

ACCOUNTING FOR SADO ADVANCED :O EDWARD O. TICHBORN FOR EXPENSES

DURING HIS RECENT TDY SANTO DOMINGO•

2.

NO INDEX.

SECRET

BT

SECRET:

NNNN

Tuttour

261253263

---

## Page 115

14-00000

CLASSIFOSE FILENT

ф м.

B18, 90 8010:0

1L19516 ED MESSAGE

SFCRET

PEPROBLETICH EROHIEITED

Piss dy

ADVANCE COPT

WAIT

то 4H8

& RID COPY

FILE OR 80P 162P CIST, IN 2 CALON CA/RE CHRA CALEROR 21 EsPOTa

2006

SECRET 3023312 CITE

1023

30 May 681: 26936

DIRECTOR INFO

EMARGOSY

STASION

GAVE MI! STERILE TELEPHONE

SAVE RID STEPARTED SEPHO DOMINGO FOR MASTENGTON ONLATE 29 MAY FLIGHT.

NUMBER OF

CONLY ONE IT HADS, INSTRUCTED TICHBORN TO

CALL MORNING OF 31 MAY, ASK FOR

AND INTRODUCE HIMSELF AS

WITH REGARDS FROM

•2.:

STATION WOULD LIKE TO EXPRESS APPRECIATION FOR MQS

AND

SUPPORT IN MAKING TICHBORN AVAILABLE FOR

EMARGOSY ACTIVITIES. FOR THE RECORD, TICHBORN HAS DONE

BRILLIANT JOB WITH EMANTHEM-1 IN EXTABLISHING QUICK RAPPORT,

CREDIBILITY, AND HANDLING DIFFICULT ASSIGNMENTS WITH DIFFICULT

GOOD

PERSONALITY AND SITUATION. HE HAD TO DO PROVE DEAL OF QUICK.

YANTUION HIS FEET IN AR DITION AND, NOI ONCE, DID HE GET

CROSSED UP IN VERY COMFLEX AND FLUID SITUATION INTO WHICH HE

• CAME COLD NOT MANY WEEKS AGO. STATION KNOWS OF FEW, IF ANY,

#PEOPLE WHO COULD HAVE HANDLED THIS ASSIGNMENT THE WAY

•TIC@SORN DID. IN ADDITION, HE ASSISTED STATION GREAT DEAL

WITH SUGGESTIONS ON POLITICAL MOVES, GETTING UP ORCANIZERS

SECR

201-253203

Trel

---

## Page 116

inger.

• D:

PAGE TWO SANTO DOMING O

"SECRET

IT, AND OTHER ASPECES OF OUR EMARGOSY OPERATIONS. • ROLE

ÀS VITAL ASPECT OF EMERGOST AT CRITICAL POINT IN OPERATION.

WOULD ALSO LIKE TO TAKE THIS OPPORTUNITY

TO TUNK STATION FOR EXCELLENT PROP AND INTEL SUPPORT.. FROM

BOUR VIEWPOINT,. IT HAS BEEN BEST FROM ANY, STATION AND WE HAVE

HAD SOME GOÖ SUPPORT FROM OTHERS.

4. NO INDEX.

SECRET

BT

*PORTION GALILED - BEING EVCD.

SECRETI

NNNN

Tr.

---

## Page 117

14-00000

CLASSIFY TO FILE NO.

BONES IN MILI NO.

PILE HIDO

PET. TO BRANCH D

DESTROY

Ds1e.

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

•ERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

TOTAL

COPIES

20

REPRODUCTION PROMIBITED

ACTION

INFO

C/CAlO 2

& RID COBET

FILE, iR, C/CA 2, C/EUR 4, C/WH

ADVANCE COPY

UNIT

TIME

S60T988

c/ces 3

SECRET 261428Z CITE

6596

26 Hay 66 25 1 30

DIRECTOR

DESERTIZZE DORIC @KOPERA

REF: DIRECTOR 07099

1. APPRECIATE SUGGESTION PER REF PARA 2, HOWEVER IN VIEW FACT THAT

RNEYEDROP HAS ACCEPTED REPORTS THAT LIREAM SUPPORTED BY ODACID

FUNDS, CONSIDERATION OF ASSIGNMENT TICHBORN TO RNMESIAL

INAPPROPRIATE AT THIS TIME.

2. NO INDEX.

SECRET

BT

SCRET!

NNNNMM

Tulare

201-253203

---

## Page 118

14-00009

CA/ D3

Tus:

24 MAY 2966

01645A BY

DIRECTOR

i. Flie, 4.6

119688

¿ NO 1658.

"RM.

TOTAL

SECRET

DOESTRO! "

D RETURNTO -

I HID COPY

WTELAEETFTCATTON

BECRET

RECEI

AFE: DR

TOAT AHD TRIEFILICY.

24 22 027 CITE DIRECTOR

-TRIPTILL

07099

та.

DESENSHIZED ODORIC QNOYERA

RAT!

6565 (IN 23525)

DO. ACHE IS APPEAS PORTLESS ATTEMPT PARSLADE

WITHDPAW RESIGIATIOY

AT TIS PODIT. SEPARATE MESSAGE FOLLONS COVERIN AIMIA POLVES RAISTO PARA FOUR ROT.

2.

UNHILI. ING CONTINUE

GLOT, HQS FEELS HE HIGELY QUALIFIED FOR THIS POSINICH AND THERE ARE NO DIS

QUANTTTING SECURITY FACTORS INVOLVED. UHLESS LOPI'M QUECTS,

WITh SOLED

HEY OUT IN JUNE AND REPORT RESULTS CONVERSATICA TO ICPIPIT. DISCUSSION WIT

TICHBORK WOULD BY EXPLCRATORY CTLY VIEW FACI DEVOUR BAB HOT IELIQUISHKD GAiN. ON

HIS FOSSILS SERVICKS ELSEWERE.

3.

FIS ADVISE YOUR REACTIONS POSSIBLE TICHHORN ASHIGENT.

BAD CH° MESSAGE

201

lilita,

C/CA

ALIASIN OFFICER

WE/CAL

600

COORDINATINE OBFICEAS

SECRET

ARPRODUETION BY OTHE

THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE

+/CA/83

АВТОКАТАСАТІВ

BFFICER

-Fare no.

ITED.

2612253703

---

## Page 119

INDER: DYES

CLASSIFY TO FILE NO. 201 - 32O 3203 CLASSIFLED MISSÁGE B TOTAL COPIES

TO FILE NO.

FILE RIDL RET.

SECRET

PERSON/UNIT nOTIFIED

TA DISSE EY 37/1

ACTIOn

c/wH 6

YORID COPY

INTO

FILE, 1B, C, CCS 3, C/GI, C/CA 2

ADVANCE COPT

REPRIOLET ION PROHIBITEO

UNIT

TIME

MEXI

PS

DEST

ABSTRACT

SECRET 192312Z CITE

7331

DIRECTOR

DESEKSHAZZD IREAM

REF: DIR 85091, PARA ONE#

SO FAR AS STATION AWARE

TICHBORN DECISION TO RELOCATE

UNRELATED TO OTHER JOB PROSPECTS. IN DISCUSSION HE SPOKE AS

IF HE HOPED HE WOULD BE ABLE TO CONTINUE ON WITH KUBARK IN MUCH

• THE SAME CAPACITY AS NOW. CAN NOI, OF COURSE, RULE OUT

POSSIBILITY HE HAS BLOCKED OUT ALTERNATIVE COURSE IN CASE

KUBARK CANNOT USE HIM BASED IN US, BUT HE SEEMED SINCERE IN

DESIRE REMAIN IN PRESENT EMPLOYMENT.

SECRET

BT

INDEX

19112 860020743

•SECRET

#RE TICHECKN FUTURE RICANE.

AFFILIATIN,

201253703

---

## Page 120

MESSAGE FORM

TOTAL COPIES:

SECRET

17

W:/1

SAIL

3654

16 Hay 1966

D15SRH BY - 565 PER-

free.

DiRECTOR

D INDEX

O FILE iN CE FILE HO.

что Патти-

ROUTILS

1 5

2

4

O DESTROY D RETURN TO

n BRANCH

O RID COPY

TOOLSTFICATIONT

SECRET

INFO: VA

, C/PE, C/iOS.3, C/CA3, C/CAls:2

TREFERENCE NUMBER)

CITE DIRECTOR 05081

17.2 id'Z

DESENSHERSE PURZAM

ROF

7272 (IN 22241)*

1. REGRET TICHBORN FANITY SITUATION PRECLUDES RENAINING LEXI. TO

STATION KNOWLEUGE IS L'ICHBORN DECISION RELOCATE BASED ON FIRM OEFER OR

DOES ES FOPE FOR CONTIUED KUBARK EMPLOYENT WEITE ALTEIPILIG RESSTABLISE

FTSELE IN PRIVATE LAW PRACTICE OR OTHER EMPIONENT DIRECILY OR

INDIRDONLY CONNECIND WITH USG? VE NOW INVESTIGATING POSSIBILMES BY

WHICH EE MIGHT BE OF SERVICE TO KUBARK ON TEMPORARY OR CONSULTANT

BASIS IF FE DOES ESTABLISE EINSELE ON EAST COASI BUE DO NOT SEE

REQUECENT FOR REGULAR EMPLOYMENI HORE AT THIS TIS. FIT, LE POLIEVE

BE WAS IN TOUCH WITH SOME DE OCRATIC PARIY LEADERS WHILE IN WASE

LAST MONTE BUT DO NOT KNOW SPECIFICS OF CONTACIS.

2. PRIOR MAKTIG ANY DECISION CONCERNING CONTINUATION PROJECT

LIREAY HQS WOULD APPRECIATE SIA RECOMMENDATION CONCERIIIE PRESENTI

OPERATIONAL NEED IN MEXICO FOR OP THIS NATURE AND YOUR COMMERTS

CONCERTING VIABILITY PROJECT IN EVENT A NEW CASE OFFICER WINE SUITABIE

QUALIFICATIONS (ADMITTEDLY DIFFICUII ON SUCH SHORT NOTICE) COULD BE

LELEASING OFFICER

COORDINATINE OFFICERS

SECRET

GROU? !

decongooding and

401910 1 nal 409 000,

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE 1S PROMISITEDO.

AUTHENTICATING

OFFICER

СОРУ НО.

201-253203

H 82102

---

## Page 121

MESSAGE FORM

TOTAL COPIES:

SECRET

Of16

1M18:.

.......

DATE

O FILL RIG

D INDEX

O AC INDER

O FILE Sa ES PILE NO.

2

DISSEN DY

- PER

O DESTROY RETURN TO MI BRANCH

FROM: DIRECTOR

CON8:

O RID COPY

INFO: VA

• FILE

IT CLASS TOCONT

→ TDATE XES YISE PILEST

TREFERITCE NUMBERT

CITE DiRECTOR 0505/

PACT 2

mo!

FOUND. SINCE IT OLR UNTARSTANDING THAT PROTECT OPERATES PRIMARITY

ON BASIS RAPPORT DEVELOPED BETITEN TICHBORN AND

THAT' IS

POSSISILITY THIS RELATIONSHIP COULD BE TRANSTERRED READILY TO ANY

OTHER CASE OFFICER. II STATION OPINION WHAT IS POSSIBILTTY STATNEE

JAGRET ENI CONTILE PROJECT IF HE ADVISED DE USG SUPPORT? I

ES ACCEPTED FACT OF SOURCE OF FUNDS WOULD EE BE AMERABIS DIRECT

RELATIONSHIP WITE STATION OFFICER OR AMERICAN EUSINESS AT CUFOUT TED

WOULD OSTENSIBLY REPRESENT US CONTRIBUTORS LIREAL.

END OF MESSAGE

kH Comment:

*Ref states TICHBORN desires depart Mexi mid-summer.

WH/CA

in/Pers (37.:20:3):

C/WHD

RILEASING OFFICER

REPRODUC

COORDINATING OFFICERS

SECRET

I BY

OTHER THAN THE ISSUING 0FFd6

C/ww/1

AUTHINTICATING

OFFiCEA

FOFT 110.

47-9)

---

## Page 122

14-00009

imminen

D-UNCLASSIFIED

MAL

CoL:

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SECRET

SUBJECT: (Oprianol).

FROM:

EXTENSION

NO.

Oilies designation, room number, and

гревО

DATE

'Tune 6, 1966

burbding)

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

COMMENTS (Number each comment do shom tram whor

RECEIVED

FORWARDED

so whora. Dram o lina across catama stres doct comment i

6

He consents

charle - Comes Bary ou

on The attached Careerheat.

thay

The do poles with the

+-this?

office On Can 22. At the

agic

request of a

Hen 27 a Copy of The

5.

The 4122

anachment war forwarted

6.

T.

8.

.

10.

Pls. file 201- Tickton

11.

12.

13.

14.

13.

FORAA

#-62

610 SERIOUS

SECRET

• CONFIDENTIAL

copy

attach fem Wre/Register calked

when d

asted tom of clure atr

recall, he inducated ages.

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

12Pay 16

511-253203

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 123

UNCLASSIFIED

INTERNAL

* NLY

CONFOENTIAL

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SECRET

SUBJECT: (Opianal)

FROM:

RID/DEP/ INCOMING

GB-12

TO: (Offee desegnation, room mumber, end

Busbolingd

1.

DATE

MCENED

EITEMISIOA

x7737

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

TOWARDEO

HO

DaTE

Chief/WH/Reg-

COMMENTS (Number poet comino se show trous atone

Dear a line derans don ether not comment y

19 May

2 June. =

Fur your revela-

arcamaradatom ete. 1899047.

so co Can to bore de

C/WH/CA

116

"This arrived in

114/1

To see

Tickborn

"You had abriady tet front

wit

Vo, Ricera

3-9:

Decause if encue.

delay in referring>

mett forth July fun

anal discussed his offai

enritert ever berry.

The disp!! Pay nof.

Red embassing. on lette.

last the !!

8-42

-610 S6T0N

SECRET

I CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ON:T

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 124

TO

DISPATCH

Chief, WID

CLASSIFICATIORi

SECRET

PROCESSING ACTION

MARKED FOR ARDDITES

DED SNOCKRIG REQUIRED

ORELY QUALIFIED DESAL

CAL NOGE CHDOUSE

Chief of Station

XX

SUBJECT

LICOLIC/Adainistrative

lemorandun Doom Edwerd &. NICHBORN Be Hla Leaxing Nextco Clty

ACTION REQUIRED. REFERENCES

Forwarded herewith 1s a menorendum received from Eiward G. TICHBORN

regarding his necessity to move from lexico Cit

Attachment:

As Stated (HEREWITH)

Distribution:

- FIles

CROSS REFERENCE TO

DESPATCH STRIDOL AND NUMBER

EIN7-6608

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

DATE

12 May 1966 :

HQS FILE DUMBER

50-6-116/2

---

## Page 125

.......

. FiC:: Tichborn

Isi Re: Necess I Si LOViRE ErO Mexico Cavi

a) The preparation of a thorough in depth study

of PRI and lexicar politics, with projections

as to the future. I would gather all ry eaterials

(irverviews, literature, etc.) in a cousle of

conths;

then collate and aralyze the materials

in sore U.S. university, discussire ora analyzirg

sace with local political science professors.

b) The preparation of a similar study about the

student revolutions row occuring or about to

---

## Page 126

brean out in varíous parts offlatin merica or Spai..

The recrni triv. of lexico riota vould be zy point o?

departire..

SINCE NEITHER OF THESE SIUDIES SOULD TIE VE DO: TO

MERE

A RIGID SCHEDUIS, I COULD 53,

READILY AVAILABIE THAN

I AX NOW FOR ASSIGKYSHTS

2. Sy wife and 1 are considerine tuo possible sites for

our future home:

ASSUMING THAT HEADCUARTERS NIIL WANT TO DISCUSS THE ABOVE LATTERS

WITH NE AT GREAT LENGTH

hiD IN PEPSC.,

I PIAN TO GO TO FASHINGIOS

ADCUT THE PIRST OF JUNE.

grad to bin

(after? saur him ).

---

## Page 127

14-00000

GRASSITE TO FILE NO.

N-NES TO FILE NO.

PILE RIOD NET., 10 GRANCH DI

DESTROY

Da siG.

Assuring meggles G

SECRET

PERSON UNIT NOTIFIED

*EPRODUCTION PROMIBITED

ADVANCE COPY

TimE

6048/

1850

FILE

& RID COPY

500G; CLOA

SECRET 12002 EZ

INFO DIR CITE

REFS:

A.

B.

72 69

6N13465

IN TELECON WIIH TICHORN IN SAN JUAN, STATION RELAYED REF B

ADVICE. TICHORN CONFIRMED ME WILL CALL

OR

UPON

ARRIVAL SDOM 1502 HRS 12 MAY FOR ADVICE RE ROOM.

SECRET

CFA

7304 7269 0638 TICHORN SAN JUAN REF B TICHBORN

SDOM 1580 HAS 12 FE

ET

SECRET

Takin 201

061253203

---

## Page 128

INDENT IN YES

CLASSIFY TO FILE

I-MET TO FILE 4D.

FiLS RIDD RET. TO BRANCH D

DESTROY D sIG.

-ASSIFIED MESSAGE

• TOTAL COPIES M

SECRET

PERSON SHIT NOTIFTED

REPASCUCTION PROMIBITES

BRID COPY

ADVANCE COPY

Dissure

UNE 8 T

TiME

SECRET 101753Z

10 Mar 65814183

FRIORITY

' REF

INFO DIR CITE

7294

4608

15)*

TICHBORN

DEPARTED BEFORE REF ADVICE COULD BE RELATES TO MIM.

OR

HE INSTRUCTED CALL

AT WHICH TIME HE CAN 32

ADVISED PER REF.

SECRET

..7284. 0688 TICHBORN

UPON ARPIVAL SOON HOWEVER,

CFN

BT

*EVEGEST TICHEORN PRICETE

TA EMBAJADER FUD FEASTER

SECRET

zure

Tricktion

201

201-283203

---

## Page 129

190t8s LITes

CLASSIFY TITILENO.

M-REE TO PILE NO.

PILE AIDIA

HEY. TO BRANCH D

DESTROY D 51G.

TROL

"SIFIEO MESSAGE

T53 . SECRET

PERSON/UNIT ASTIFIED

POTÁL

COPIES

ACTION

ADVANCE COPY

WH8

I RID COPY

168UED

INFO

O.01E0

TUALO

LIE 17 SODE; CA2, CCS 3, CA/04, C//OPS, G/0A

REPRODUCT ICH PAC.:BITED

TIME

9 May 66 1 3485

13415

SECRET 100D59Z

• PRIORIT:

RET:

INFC DIP. CITE

772651113342)+

0638

SUSGEST TICHSORN

FROCSED TO EMBAJADOR AND REGISTER..

SHOULD CALL

OR

IF NO ROOM AVAILASLE

STATION WILL PROVIDE SAFE APARTMENT FOR TICHBORN PRIOR IS

ARPIVAL OF CONGRESSMAN GONZALEZ IF HE COMES: AND/OR

OTHER PERSONS WHO MIGHT KNOW TICHBORN, BELIEVE STATION

WILL DE AWARE OF ARRIVALS PRIOR TO FACI, INCLUDING NEWSMEN.

SECRET * RE TINZONE DESIRE, NOT TO MEET

CFN

ACGUAINTHINCES

2589 7269 TICHBOR! EMBAJADOR

NO ROCH

GONZALEZ

SECRET

NNNH

Ticktor

2015253203

...

---

## Page 130

1d-0n0d

UNDER:

Dres Do:

CLASSIFY TO FILE NO.

E•REF TO

FILE N0.

PILERIDD

RET. TO BRAINE

DESTROr D 516.

FROM

LASSIFIED MESSACE

SECRET

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

REPRODUCTION PRO-PAITEC

80670

42H8

FILE, VP,

CCs3

X RID COPY

ADVANCE COPY

BABURD

UNIT

TIME

SECRET 092115Z

• 9 May 66 13342

PRIORITY

REF A

INFO DIR CITE

7259

8667 (IN/ 2552)

17258//N/2246

TICHBORN DEFINITELY DOES NOI WANT MEE! CLO ACQUAINIANCES AND

EXPECIALLY NOT

*ICHBORN MAS NO LEADS

RE HOTELS, REQUESTS THAT STATION

ARRANGE ROOM OR SAFE APT OTHER

THAN HOTEL EMBAJADOR, WHERE GONZALEZ PROBABL: WILL STAY. PLEASE

ADVISE.

SECRET.

.....=.

CEN 725S BEST TESO TICHPORN NOT WANT NOT

IICHBORN NO LEADS RE HOTELS APT HOTEL ENSA.X000 BUNZALEZ

BT

SECRET

701253203

---

## Page 131

14-00000

D ro

CLASSIFY TO FILE MO..

MODET TO FILE MO.

PILE MIOD RET, 1O BRANCH O

DESTROY DIG.

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

PERSON UNIT NOTIFIED

TOTAL COPIES

14

REPRODUCTION PROMIBITED

ACTION

ADVANCE COPY

UNAT

TIME

& RID COPY

FILE VB, COS3,

SECRET 071810Z

INFO DIR CITE

0667

REF$

79260(512246)

1..

SUGGEST TICHBORN CABLE DIRECILY TO HOTEL EMBAJADOR

IO MAKE RESERVATION FOR 11 MAY, AS ROOM SITUATION TIGHT.

(STATION CAN PROVIDE ROOM IF NECESSARY, BUT DIRECT RESERVATION

WOULD BE BETTER FROM SECURITY STANDPOINT>•

2. PLS ADVISE TICHBORN TO POLISH HIS COVER STORY

CAREFULLY. THERE MAY BE NEWSMEN FROM MEXI & MR CARL MIGDAIL

INDICATED HE HOPED IO RETURN SDOM TO COVER ELECTIONS. ALSO

UNDERSTAND

BELIEVED TO. BE KNOWN

TO TICHBORN, MIGHT ALSO BE HERE AS AN OBSERVER•

SECRET

CFN 0667 UWYP TICHBORN HOTEL EMBAJADOR 11 MAY TICHBORN

TICHBORN

-SECRET

12859

@RUE TICHBORN ETA EDOM.

Teller 201

701253203

---

## Page 132

CLASSIFY TO FIRE NO.

PILE NO NET. TO BRANCH O

BESTHOr O sIG.

&SSIFIED MESSAGE

La Ng

SECRET

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIEO

TOTAL COPIES

REPRODUCTIOI PROHIBITED

ADYANCE COFT

UNIT

WH8

INFO

FILE, V'R, CCS3

& RID COPY

SECRET 070115Z

12246

7 Max 65 B 1 2246

INFO DIR CITE

7260

TICHBORN ETA SDOM 11 MAY.

SECRET

CFN 7260 TICHBORN EIA SDOM 11 MAY

BT

SECTIONE

....

NNNN

you for

gol

201-283203

---

## Page 133

INDEXE

D vEs D+0

CLASSIFY TO FILE NO.

•B-REY, TO MILE NO.

PILE DID RET. TO BRANCH D

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

8

SECRET

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIEO

TOTAL COPIES

REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

FRO

ACTION

ADVANCE COPY

то с/ 1046

RID COPY

ELLE, VE DDP, ADDP C/CA/0 2,

c/CA 2, c/cr

WAS A T

TIME

SEGRET OTIGROZ

INFO

DIR CITE

0657

"" Mer 66

DESTASPIREM ARGOSY

REF: DIR D2484

1. REQUEST

ELICIT FROM AMCHIME-I INFO CONCERNING

FOLLOWING POINTS!

IF, AS FREE-LANCER, HIS SICRIES BEING

REGULARLY USED BY ANY PBPRIME NEWSPAPER; MAJOR OR SMALL? ARE

STORIES FILED AIRMAIL OR CABLE? WHETHER HE PLANS OR WISKES

12521

COVER DOREP ELECTIONS.

AS

_RECALLS, AMCHIME -I NOT WITTING

KUBARK ASSOCIATION. IF THIS STILL TRUE, ANY APPROACH TO HIM

MIGHT BEST BE

MADE DIRECILY BY SIATION.

SINCE

AMCHIME-/ WELL IN HAVANA AND MEXI,

_KNEw

NAME COULD BE USED.

•3. FOR DIR: IF PARA ONE ELICITATION PROVES FRUITFUL

WOULD FIND ANCHIME-L'S PRESENCE HERE VALUABLE. AS

FREE-LANCER HE MIGHT BE HAPPY ACCEPT ASSISTANCE IN TRAVEL AND

PER DIEM EXPENSES TO COVER ELECTIONS®

SECRET

*REQUESTED

CFN 0657 02484

PER DIEM

BT.

ECLE LOCATE ANCHIME-

ITTE

NOT WITTING

Fufor "S8)"

---

## Page 134

14-00000

10

DISPATES-

SASSITEAIKA

SECRET

any Division, Office o1' Finarce

PRESSING ACTION

MADIO POR LECTINa

NO INTENTS ARgUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED NEX

CAN RODE ALOURE

Chiar of Station

ACTION MAQUIREO. REILACHIN

Attashed hereith 18 one Merican bank cashlong dheck in the enounc

of Us 1s304.00 poutile to a ramiral payer. Mia chack us turned su to

Station by rubjest for asttlemen of covert incone tas collention sa

dotermast drine nuijceta recent Hastquarters TDY.

attachment

As stated Above 1/rs

Distributena

2 = Chier, Monatary Diviaion, v/att

-i Endela

DIPATON IMMEL AND MULESE

JEST 6612

SECRET

20/253203

DATE

6 Fny 1566

---

## Page 135

DISPATCH

cried at atician,

done tie ness; i

Chief, lie.io

Lenard

Referendt:

110n1:

prore division

neone lax..

0320, 14 april 1900

richboR! also agiced he roald forsard a check to leade

quarters for the tax

the return.

CONTIERO

DATE

HAL'S - 4723

Missie Callo.

SECRET

05 MAY 1966

201-253203

WH/Pers/L

36 AbIil 1955.6576

Distribution:

WH/Pers

1

1

1

WH/1

CCS/NO

• WH/REG

COOROIAA10D

w/att

wlatt

10/att

wo/att

_C/Vi/ PERS

C/WH/1

C55/30-

DilC

C/M/S5

---

## Page 136

14-00000

CONTICATION&

DISPATCH

1431S - 6723

Howard D. MYNARD

Attachment:

As stated

Distribusion:

2 - COS,

FOR" S30

0-ü.8

140%

USE PREVIOUS CORION,

CLASSICATION

SECRET

COPATIHIUEO

---

## Page 137

MENT OF CLAIM

MAMINIS NUILLO I SEX

CODE

1:9

1902

AUDIT CREAKDOWN

INDONER BLADERTLAIANGUT MELATIONSTIP TAILCLAN MCCRED

1 29505

Salines

3110381016009

Daysia i ....

22,02

4 11988-hal dear

stripelind too airs periodo ambient

7 Surgers

É dressiest lever than duis dall

PiAGUNIS

LE ACTUAL

CHARGES

201474

21628

1.00,32

11:006

I PAYAELL CHIDER

10 Druge lOines tien Hospitall

11 Oiler Grine-d Experses

TO TOTAL LACE MAN LORDS TOS DONKENEEr

13 Totol del di Crurges

Shere in, decess of lino 83 crer lina 12

15 Add try herumulation of Deduct bie herein

ló To'clare lo and line 15

17 Haline i6 Regrada DeduciLie 1$108, flus any

Provose ion, Chorge kereeding 325 0 Cay

inter 20o2 06 Exica

18 PAYAÈLE 61

6073

207407

10%

O 1DiGL MANDR MEDICAL LIVERIS TiLS

'ioral sinaris dis WOrkonLET lanS 12 Fus line 201 -

10103)

sU(c.00

806,09

20/262

253056

HEMA O EREAKDOWN,

Others

HE: MI BFEAXUOWN:

Appleries.

Nuree..

Others (Expicin)

_2ar,0)

29805

Lucko

2ndel

ACCUAULATOI OF DEDUCTIME

1R01 INEViOUS CLAMS

•Éscrisus Cule üae Year

louder dos.

Norther tea.

-Arli, surver

Art..

leader ta

Currend Colmudar Yeor.

Vorcinglia.

daveler lid. .

loucher lio..

AMs.

A:z?.

AmP. ..

TOTAL --

Stain any cacoss eo ini, civim unca may be capi

soward sundiacion of ane deduclable in thee!

Current Culendar Year ...

isiering Calendar leur

MAJOR MEDICAL MAXIMUM

PAID CONTROL

ireo sadly luid

Fand this Ciois

| Grend Mot Fierously Token

Icial Accumbinied

Ins si Mediral Foid

Dore Cotober 27_-._. 19 65,

REMARKS:

---

## Page 138

Treater: 201 11

'SECRE*

Chief of Station,

Chief, Western Henisphere Division

Edward Go TICHBORi,, Contract Extension

ACTION REQS FYL

Artached for Station retention Is an amenduent to the contract

for Edward Go TICHBORN, Contract Agent, extending the term through

18 Novenber 1365.

Attachment:

As stated

Distributlong

2 • COS,

HMMS • 4738

SECRET

WH/Pers/

201.253203

gas 2 May 1966

6576

Distribution:

1

WH/Pers

1

• WH/1

1

• WH/Reg

w/att

w/att

wo/att

C/WH/PERS

C/WH/1

2 May 66 (coord in draft)

---

## Page 139

1d-0d0

tr, 10-6-0104

14 919,74

.."....

(When Filed (s)

MEMORANDUM FOR:

Office of Finance

FROM

SUBJECT

i.

Contract Perfoanel Diviaton

Contract Extension sor

Eduard G. TICHBORN

19 November 1965, the coneries ine amendel)

for the suble:? Individual, sifachira 19 May 1961

extended for a period of one (1) year

a. All other derme and conduino of the contract lad smerced)

remain in duil force and effece.

UNITED STATES COVERYMENT

13X

Coutrackg Career

asteriane.

S-E. C-R•E-T

(When Filled In:

Group 1 - Excluded fram automie downgr ding ind decare tired'on.

22.09

---

## Page 140

129-7.

ntr

MESSAGE FORIVi

SECRET

SOLING

5

6

EXT

DATE B

7O

FROM:

CONF:

7O

CCS/NC

5004

20 Aps1] 1965

D INDEX

EE NO INDEX

D FILE IN ES FILE NO.

17312

DIRECTOR

6653

INFO

INFO,

CITE DIR

98097

RaT: FRT-6453, 31 March 1966

TICHBORN TAX SITUATION CLEAR TIROUGE 1965 UPON PASMENT OF $2, 308.94.

THIS REPRESENTS $938.82 FOR 1963; $1,460.00 PIUS $174.00 (SOC. SEC.) FOR 1964,

IDSS RELUND OF $263.88 ON 1965 TAX. DSTATIS WILL EE FORWARDED WITE IDITER.

OF TAX INSTRUCTION.

END OF MESSAGE

OF/C&TD/CTB Tel Coord.

WH/PERS

WH /2/MEX

WH/1

C/CcS/SC

26.1

AUTHANTICATING

OFFICER

SECRET

---

## Page 141

14-00000

OFIG :

WiT

EXT :

DATE :

201/7

4323

15 12 2055

TO

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF :

WHE

MESSAGE FORSE

TOTAL COPIES:

D INDEX:

O NO INDEX

DI FILE IN CS FILE NO.

1SS&CR25

I RETUIN TO BRANCH

ROUTING

5

8

D HILE RD

TO

INFO: VR, FILE I MID CO3,

INFO

Lave

0P2. CCS 3. CA 2

1aS 19272

CITE DIR

N2XI

97332

INCISORT

2E ARRIVE LOKI 19 APRIL.

L: $ICO ADVANCE LUDE 15 APRIL, ACCOURTINO SEOULD BE

DiD OF LOSS.103

201253733

/c/VID

RELEASING OFFICER

COORON

SECRET

7

GROUPI

Busheded in enocenta

disingers, end

AUTHENTICATIME

OFFICEA

REPRODUCTION BY OTNER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITED.

cory no.

---

## Page 142

CLASSIFY TO FILE NO.

M-HEE TO FILE NO.

PILE DID BET. TO BRANCH D

DESTROT OSIG.

-ASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

PERSON/ UNTT WRT.FTEU

TOTAL, COPIES

REPRODUCTION PROMISITED

INFO

WH8

K RID COPY

FILE, UP, CS/PC, CN2, CA/PEG

ADVANCE COFY

I88ыEр

TIME

0000 ₴

BY

SECRET 182253Z

18 APR: IN 99122

PRIORITY DIR CITE

7017

REFS: A. HMMS-4658

B.

70328(194-007)

REPLY REF A IN PREPARATION; SUGGEST HQS CONSULTATION WITH TICKBORN

REGARDING PARA C IF HE STILL IN US.

SECRET

*RE TRAVEL EDWARD TICH BURN

CFN UPQU HMMS- 465 B

0326 REF A HQS TICHBORN C US

BT

SECRET

NNNN

Trilbom 201

2: 1. 253.203

---

## Page 143

CLASSIFY TO FILE NO.

#-REE TO FILE NO.

FILE DIDI RET. TO BRANCH O

DE$TROY

LASSIFIED WESSAGE B

SECRET

TOTAL COPIES

REPRODUCT IDA PROHIB

ACTION

1H8

IX RID COPY

. TAFO

FILE, UR, CCS 3, 0F62; =

ADVANCE COPY

UNIT

SECRET 132332Z

14 APa 65 8 96007

INFO DIR CITE

2326

EMARGOSY

10 EDWARD O. TICHBOR'S ADVANCED $375 (U.S.) FOR TRAVEL

AND OTHER EXPENSES IN DP. ON EMARGOSY ASSIGNMENT. SINCE INVOLVED

AIRLINE TICKET AS WELL, ACCOUNTING COULD NOT BE SUBMITTED PRIOR

TO DEPARTURE.

WOULD APPRECIATE IF

COULD OBIAIN ACCOUNTING

AND POUCH TO SDOM.

2. TICHSORN DEPARTED SDOM 13 APR FOR NEW YORK AND

EXPECTS TO ZE BACK IN MEXI 17 APR.

3. FOR DIR: IN NEW YORK TICHBORN WILL ATTEMPT FIRM UP

COVER FOR NEXT VISIT SDOM.

HE WILL TELEPHONE HOS, HOPING TO

MEET WITH HAS OFFICERS FOR DISCUSSION SEVERAL SUBJECTS, INCLUDING

INCOME TAX, PRIOR TO RETURN TO NEXI.

SECRET

CFÑ 9326 EDVARD O TICHEORN 5375. U.S. DR EMARGOSY

NOT BE 13 APR NEW YORK 17 APR

201253203

BT?

SECRET

thir

---

## Page 144

14-00000

1:44!

TOTAL, COPIES LA

CLASSIFY TO FILE NO.

I-BEF TO VILE NO.

GILE BIDD

RET. TO BRANCH D

SSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

PERSONUNIT NOTiFTED

FROM

ACTION

ADVANCE COPY

X RID COPY

INFO

ELLE, VR 46653 2/09 S/CS C/CA2

REPRODUCTIO% PROMIBITED

UNIT

TIME

Ter

XD18348

•SECRET POWENIZ

PRIORITY

REF

INFO DIR CITE

ACTIONA

L/LAREd 88459

0142

PARW (114,24165)

PLS NOTE THAT THERE ARE INO HILTON MOTELS IN

SAN JUAND TICHBORN WILL BE AT SAN GERONIMOBA

SECRET

CFN

YUEI PORW

PLS HILTON HOTELS SAN JUAN TICHBOPN

SAN GERONINO

BT

SCAS CARIS

1CHEERA LE

I AN

201-253203:4

NNNN

Tutton 201

---

## Page 145

1d-0n0d

Men o For Tichborn 201 file

Marginalia frog two meetings dith Tichborn in washington in Kpril

and May 1965

Tichborn is planing ts write a book which he has- tentatively

titled

Iyattrykyryagay ls ayert of his research on the subject,

he has prepared two articles and submitted the to thate life "agazine.

and the Atlantic Monthly Atlantig Monthly has accepted his article.

an d

this ill aprear in some future issue of Atlantic -

Tichborn's article

and will

appear in the near future. He showed me the check (9450)-for-this

- article.

?

These.

Does

Wos...

501-253203

---

## Page 146

14-00000

" 1:

MESSAGE FORM

TOTAL COPIES

O Derage, CO RETURN TO BRANCH O' PILS BED

er.d

00000000XIOUUDOZONRNNNNI

ROUTING

DAit

UNIT &

EXT &

DATE !

4523

31 HAR 66

D INDEX

EL NO INDEX

O FILE IN CSMILENO.

SECRET

Tian bo

ТУ 292

FROM: DIREETOR

CONF:

WH8

TO

INFO: VA. FILE D RID COPY CAZ CA PROP

C557

INFO

SDOl

CITE DIR

REF®

6588 (IN 76734)

92812

2. ALTHOUGH COZEND ATTEMPT ESTABLISH

AS NATURAL, BACKSTOP KBURD

AS COVER THIS OP• FROM HERE

•WOULD SEEM

RELATIONSHIP COULD PROVIDE ADEQUATE JUSTIFICATION INTEREST

"pie AND ACTIVITY THIS pRODE FEDiT..

2. TOURIST COVER WOULD APPEAR SUFFICE FOR APRIL VISIT SAN JUAN AND

SANTO DONITO. MAY IDY COULD BE ATTRIBUTED DESIRE OBSERVE ELECTION IN

CONTEXT SOCIO-ECONOMIC RESTRUCTURING UNDERWAY IN COUNTRY OF SIGNIPICANT INTEREST

TO MEXICO AND DEVELOP BACKGROUND POSSIBLE ARTICLE FOR

AND OTHER

UNIDEKTIFIED OUILETS.

END OF MESSAGE

WH Coument:

Ref advised TICHBORN would Go D. R.

requested.

MEX| Suggested be arrange l

this trip.

301

WH/DRI

NH/CA

RELEASINO OFFICER

COORDINATINA OFFICER!

BECRET

Enchanted tents do

Aaronts

C/wW/1

201.253203.

AUTHENTICATINO

• OFFICER

REPRODUETICE BY OTHER THAN TOR ISSURE OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

---

## Page 147

30*

DISPATCH I

3.26

-NOREGION

Chief, aWEST ATT: Victor Do UNitenY

i Chlet, Wi Division

carice of Pinance.

CAL QUALFED BASH

CAL SUNCE MADIES

Chie" cE station,

MICROFILE

¿minIce Tax - Peoust for Dires: Asrecoment of Covort Tax Ilability for

ACTICH REQUIRED: Per para 3

HEYERSICS

: Ao Dir B3146, Datel 25 Pelauary 1966

15266,

dated Ih Hebruary 1566

6002,

d3?ed.27

50033,

sato?

Janusry 1956

14

Decerten 1965

M123, Cats!

10

"ay 1905

5225, darel

24

Nektuary 1955

3952, dares

12 Jaruary 1955

5111, 14.ed 17 Decenter 196%

Attachtent:

As Stated Above, 1/4!

Distr 1bution:

1 - Chier, KIVEST, P/att

1 - Desice of Finance wo art

CROSS REFERENCE TO

CASALTON SYMBOL AID MUZABER

HATT-6453

SNSSISECATION

SECRET

261-253203

31 March 1966

HOS FILE MUNGER

..**

---

## Page 148

2=.

G

CLASSIFY TO FILE DO..

H-HED TO FILE NO.

FILE MIDL RET. TO ONANCH D

DESTROY D sIc.

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

PESOS WHIT NOTIFIEO

POTAL COPIES

16

REPSJOLCTION PROMIBITED

D.

##OH

ACTION

ADVANCE COPY

TIME

& RID COPY

FILE, VE, coasig, 9/0R, C/OT, 9/092

SECRET 2901312

82529)

REF:

2: 1104763

# It Tichbor i's Damess TAIP.

B .

C.

6580/1N83874)

DIR 91189*

WILL CONTACT TICHORN AT SAY JUAN HILTON

EARLY EVENING A APOIL.

2. FOR DIR: AS NOTED REF A,

HAD PLANNED

DEPART SDOM FOR HOS 3 APRIL. NOW FIND HOWEVER THAT POLITICAL

SECT ION REQUESTED TO HOST PEDPIDIDA FOR AMPASSADOR BENNETT

• NIGHT 3 APOIL AT

HOME. CONSEQUENTLY

WILL

DEPART SDOM FOR SUAN A APRIL, BRIEF TICHBORN, THEN PROCEED

HOS ASAP 5 APRIL. WILL REPORT IO OFFICE MORNING 6 APRIL.

•3. FOR

APPRECIATE YOUR WILLING NESS SPARE TICHBORN

TO ASSIST

SECRET

CFN

B142 8099 6660 91189

TICHBORN SAN JUAN HILTON

4 A 3

DESPIDIDA BENNETT 3 4 5

6

BT

201-253203

K.

---

## Page 149

* 4150. 1

INDERS RITES LAND

CLASSIFY TO SOLENO..

I-HEF TO fILE nO..

PILE HIDD

RET. TO BRANCH D

DESTROY

F&34

ACTION.

INFO

MASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

PERSORS UNIT MOTIFIEO

TOTALI COPIES

REPRODUCTIO PROMIBIYED

FILE

& RID COPY

5/5653

ADTRACE COPY

ISSUED

SLOBETEL

UNIT

TIME

SECRET 2618452

INFO DIR CITE

REF DIR 91189

DESEND:

LEOLIC EMARSOSY

TICHBORN PLANS TRAVEL SAN JUAN ON 4 APRIL EASTERN

AIRLINES

AARIVING 1630. RESERVATION MADE AT SAN

JERONIMO HILTON, VILL AWAIT CONTACT. ADVISE IDENTITY

• OF OFFICER

PHO WILL MEET HIM IF ABOVE SATISFACTORY.

SECRET

CEN 6660 DIR 91189 TICHBORN SAN JUAN A APRIL EASTERN 1630 SAN

JERONIMO HILTON

SEC:ZI

BT

701-253203

---

## Page 150

Wahoo Ok!!

04474

C.0E4

0ix010E5

1221

•23 Car. 1900.

?5

...

i: DiRECTOR

140

CiTEDR

91189

FEE:

6568 (1N 76734)*

DESENSARE GARGOSY LICOLIC

APPROVE TICIDORN TRAVEL LARLY APRIL IN ACCORDAYCE REE.

PLS ADVISE

SETTER CASS OTICER CAS MEET TICHDORN IN

SAN JUAN AND WRAT CONTACT ARRANGORTS DESIRED.

END OF MESSAGE

WII COMENT:

# Tichlor

enthusiastic about. DOXED assignsent.

Suggests

he rect with

case

officer

as Sin Juar en route

DR

1n order avoid arriving SDOM cold.

7H/1/Sexico

WIL/CA

1n draft)

FIELIRIN. BROE

C/WEL DR

206.253203

HALEABIND OFFICER

BPET

SECRET

---

## Page 151

wEn:

Ds,-

-LASSIGNIN MESSAGE

SECRET

MER. tO BRANCH DI

Dre.

765m

AGVANCE COPY

B RID COPY

SECR

DIR CITE

05F

ET

2427572

079?

39 55 5

PLAYS DEPOT SNOM

AFTERNOOY 3 1901.

•MAS EAPLY AFTERNOON À ADIL.

SECDET

CFM AU9A

89556

3 105 4

9T

S26i

FESHOSACTINN PRONIBITED

WILL RETORT

761253703

---

## Page 152

INDERS DYES Duo

CLASSIFY TO FILE NO.

I-MEE DA FILE NO.

PILE BIOD RET. TO BRANCH DO

DESTROY D sIc.

FRO

Waters?

Cl

IFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

PEASUNIUNIS NOTIFIEO

TOTAL COPIES

REPRODUCTION PROMIBITED

ADVANCE COPY

UMIS

T B ME,

INFO

C WH8

E RID COPY

EIL, VP, ADDi, coas 3, C/sAz, cC

SLOTTED

TUBCO

SECRET 170105Z

CITE

DIR INFO

6568

17 Mcco: 76734

DESENSHTIZRARGOSY LICOLIC

1. CONCUR REF; TICHBORN ENTHUSIASTIC ABOUT ASSIGNMENT AND PLANNING.

TRAVEL SDOM EARLY APRIL SUBJECT MOS FINAL APPROVAL. SUGGESTS HE MEET

WITH

CASE OFFICER AT SAN JUAN EN ROUTE DR IN ORDER AVOID

ARRIVING SDOM COLD.

2. PROBLEMS WILL COME UP IN REGARD ON TIME PUBLICATION LIREAM

MAGAZINE IN ABSENCE SOTH

_AND TICHBORN, BUT BELIEVE THEY

MANAGEABLE. MAY BE NECESSARY FOR TICHBORN TO RETURN MEXI FOR

FEW DAYS MIDDLE OF MAY, BUT WILL AVOID THIS IF POSSIBLE.

3. COVER THAT OF WRITER GATHERING MATERIAL FOR BACKGROUNDER.

TICHBORN WRITING

TO SEE IF THEY INTERESTED COMMISSIONING

SUCH PIECE.

SECRET

CFN

6568

TICHBORN HQS SAN JUAN EN DR

TICHBORN MAY

SECREt

Tellin 201 14

201-253203

---

## Page 153

TO

BENDER WILL CHECK CLARS

UNCLASSIFIED

"ATION TOP AND BOT: >M

CoNFIbESTIAL

SECKET

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP

NAME AND ADDRESS

DATE

INITIALS

5

1V4/C11

ACTION

APPROVAL

COMMENT

CONCURRENCE

Remarks:

DIRECT REPLY

DISPATCH

FILE

INFORMATION

PREPARE REPLY

RECOMMENDATION

RETURN

SIGMATURE

TISHBEAN GOiNG'IUY

TO HeAP OuT BuriNG"

PAS NOTO fALLS ATT,..

WRiTING IE

WITHOUT

ANy CiM iNVERUMENTIS

OK: iF NOT WE LMN LiVA

CH40. 227

PAS AbViSe.

FOLD HERE TO RETURN TO SENDER

FROM: NAME, ADDRESS ANO PHONE NO.

C/UN/CA

UNCLASSIFIED

CONFIDENTIAL

Use previous editions

DATE

34/=

SECRET

(40)

• E GOVERNMENT PRINTION DOTICE: 89810-583282

201253203

---

## Page 154

14-00000

10

DISPATCH

Chief of Station,

EURO

CLASSITICATION

SECRET

PROCESSING ACHUN

SAPNES FOR IRDENING

NO SEDURING BEgUIRED

ORLY QUALIFIO DESA

CAN ADCE INOCUING

#SCHEMA

Chief, WH Division

SUBACT

C NICOLIC, Piscal Year 1966 Project Ranewl

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

Rol: A. HUHA 27025, 26 August 1965

B. HNNY 14392, 10 March 1966

the amount

of

2 March 1966.

Project LICOLIC has been renewed for Fiscal Year 1966 in

$19,000 as requested.

This approval was effective

2.

As you are aware there has been a good deal of discussion

here concerning

TICHsoRN's operational activitles and how he might

best contribute to the overall objectives of the Station.

It was

agreed during

visit here (See Ref B)

• that TICHBORN

would be considered henceforth as a full time Station asset and

attention would be

given to gaining maxinum value from hig continued

be noted that this

the condition that".. prior to the end of the current fiscal

year (1966), adequate cover is found to afford TICHBORN not only

the needed mobility and safeguards for his work in behalf of the

Station, but also for his possible third country political

action assignments. •

In addition, the following recommendation

was made in the event Project LIRAM should not be renewed & which

should not really be considered at present since agreement vas

Histribution:

Orig & 1 - COS

10 March 1966

20125320.3

CROSS REFERENCE 70

RI

Chrono

DISPATON STRIBOL AND NUMBER

EMW 14406-5 602%

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

OFFICE

OFFICER

WH/1/Mexico

OFFICE SEVEOL

SATE

DATE

HQS FILE NUMBER

201-253203

ORIGINATING

TYPIST

10 Mar

OFFICERS NAME

EXT.

4523

11336%

RELEASING

SEARCE STUAR

C/wW/1

DATE

(40)

Fes 53

USE PRE:IOUS EDITION

MCDATEU

---

## Page 155

CLASSIFICATON

ASPAICH SY

BOR AND MUBAREN

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

SECRET

IAИW 14406

reached to approve Project LIRRA! also)

If this turns out

to be the case we would reconnend that TICIORN be reassigned to

another area (suggest ZRKETAL) under the. type of cover (e.&. JATUBA)

which would offer him the needed mobility and protection for area-

wide political action assignients • •

.".

Needless to say, although

the latter point sbould be kept in

mind as a last alternative in

any decision regarding TICHBORN's continued relationship with this

Agency,

the Branch believes that the LIRFAN publication hag

proved and has a good chance to gain acceptance and expand its

Inflvence throughout the hemisphere.

and

This being the case mexico

as Station plans for expanding TICHBORN's activity within

take form, we hope his contribution to KUBARK objectivea in Mexico

and throughout Latin America will become more substantial and

recognized.

As a matter of infornation, Headquarters would appreciate

TICHBORN preparing a summary of his present cover situation, par

ticularly his

appreciation of his present residence and work

atatus

in Mexico, and his estinate of what the future bolds for

him in this regard. Further, we would appreciate any indication

the Station may have concerning TICHBORN's personal plans in regard

to his continued residence in Mexico and his future rei:tionship

with KUBARK.

LASSIFICATIOA

PAGE NA

•ADEVINUS EDITION.

"ANTINUET

---

## Page 156

14-00000

MESSAGE FORM

TOTAL COPIESS

15

SECRET

ORIG

UNIT : WH/DR/CA

EXT : 4221

DATE : 11 March 1966

TO

FROM:

DIRECTOR

CONF :

BOY

DI RETURN TO BRANCH

X0XXXX000UXXXXXXXXXXXXX5XXKXXC0X

ROUTING

5

6

8

DINDEX

D NO INDEX

• FILE IN CS FILE NO.

INFO:

: 4.

INFO: VA. FILE I RID COPY 0/CA2-0/04/03: C/CES3

INFO

CITE DIR

87630

35 г

DESERRETE

EMARGOSY

1.

_ HAS INQUIRED WHETHER EDWARD O, TICHBORN COULD BE MADE

AVAILABLE FOR USE IN DOUREP DURING TREFLORIS PRECEDING ONE JUNE

ELECTION. HQS AGREES TICHBORN'S QUALIFICATIONS AND EXPERIENCE IN ELSC-

AND ISSUES IN DONREP, IT WOULD APPRECIATE NEXI COMENTS ON TICHSORN

nadetties

AVAILABILITY AND ON ANY COVER OR OTHER/ PROBLEMS SUCH ASSIGNNENT NIGHT

INVOLVE.

2. IF

HAS NO OBJECTION

WOULD LIKE HAVE TICHBOR" COME

FOR TWO WEEK TDY EARLY IN APRIL TO READ IN ON SITUATION, THEN RETURN

DURING FIRST WEEK MAY FOR CONCENTRATED ELECTION EFFORT.

3.

PLS ADVISE.

END OF MESSAGE

• C/ WH/DR

C/WH/CA

Calle

Fichlorm

201-

LLIAM V.

C/WHD

BROS

RELEASING OFFICER

47

C/ WH/1

COORDIVATING OFFICERS

AUTHENTICAT

Entered fre enterse

SECRET

REPHOQUETION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUE OFFICE IS FRBHIBITED +8/2537E3

---

## Page 157

14-00009

ORId

UNIT 1

EXT

DATE •

tO

COV. PAX BR.

2391

21 FEE. 1966

FROM

DIRECTOR

CONT, CCS-3

ILESSACE F02M2 15

jointi-a

D NO INDEX

DD FILE IN CS FiLE NO.

ROUTING

17

25 Tao 8S

no VB, FiLe, WH-8, OF-2

TO

REZS:

INFO,

CITE DiZ

B.

SDOI-6033

76256.

(5054987)

QUERIED. 215 NO RECOLLECCION CASE AS STEREO RE? A.

SUGGESTS

CECK FOIDER "COVERT TAXIS" WIICE WAS LOCICED IN EIS

SORK FILE.

83145

END 03 MESSAGE

• C/S COINENT: REF. A REQUESTED

AND OVERE RETURNS.

GOILEDGE OF RICZEZORN 195% COVEST

001-253703

WH/3

• CCORDIRATINE OrrIE?RS

NG OFFICER

S-Z-C-R-I-T

GrDUPI

to 3705083; 2100

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMISITED.

C/CYD

ANTMENTICATING

OFFICER'

Copy No.

---

## Page 158

DISPATCH

HDÁE1010 161

DIRENE: 122 INICA L

Hef,

indion.

¡artin miles

Mert the whitisfition

Attaola: 18 : 4625

c° che laterar seneute prepared to one Staticke

a traud san terested to rebate e stand bard resh deralent

to interation to lesaartero..

To saced thab in neudd nocrestato

the refusst is lean, torardo.

torarorent 113 tropared and ru Curbrate co his 2555 Lix

that dis porsorat

caion remiamics unica coperate cores io ampiico to tha tor mcinoding

5.

..

and

be ochoodtel africtly.

the Comittee pooresentative lois.

arO in the caccarras Ari 21d Sious

1125 DOT

€. the forrs for

7w112 Le

corleted uror

% 12:25

JITU?,

retion to remartors.

?)ras not availiable for a bedallar.

Attachert:

As costal Arous, iVi. i use

Distribution:

1 - Coder, HIVECT, Wett

•l' - Deceicr cl Finarco, 1/o 26t

I - Chief, 112, so ati

CROSSRIFERE-CETO

DISTASCH STRIDE ASO NINABER

15216-6539

CINCGTICATICHT

DATI

242532031

21 Fcaruzy 1935

"=.

---

## Page 159

CONTEMION OF

T:

17e force tire Coriarded 6."116%.

---

## Page 160

MESSAGE FORS

TOTAL COPIES:

SECRET

ORIG

UNIT F4C3

EXT : 2213 0z 2214

DATE : 23 JN7 1965

TO

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF: 0F2

12

LINDEX

3

[ NO INDEX

O FILE IN ES FILENO.

O DE

3

• RETURN TO ERUNCH L' PiLE RE

Xx 000xX00000000000000420000

ROUTIAG

8

3Fc15

T5162

916 631

INFO: VR , FILE D RID COPY

INFO

CITE DiR

FIRAI

77138

REE :

5067 (N 43037)

DO PLEASE PAY TICHBON $542-93 AND I/A ECS.

20

NO BANK ON FILE FOR DEPOSIT CE ABOVE ALOUNT.

END Or MESSAGE

Ticktron

C/WE/SS/

RELEASINO OFFICER

C/NE/ES

COORDINATING OFFICERS

SECRET

3203

AUTHENTICATING

OFFICEN

Come wa.

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITED.

---

## Page 161

INDEE

CLASSITY TO FILE NO.

#-BED TO

FILE NO.

PILE RIOD

DET, TO BRANCH D

DESTROY

D s16.

CLASSIFIED MESSAGF

Zy

SECRET

PERSOM/UNIT NOTIFIEO

TOTAL COPIES

REPRODUCT 10%

BITEC

Berton

QF.2

FILE, VR, WH-8

ADVAACE COPY

UNIT

D RID COPY

201:

19037

SECRET 280005Z

DIR CITE

6267

DTEARN

PLEASE ADVISE RE DISPOSITION OF CHECK SENT TO DTEARN PER HMMA-4495

IN SETTLEMENT OF EDWARD

Go

TICHBORN HOSPITALIZATION CLAIM PER HMMT-

5791.

SECRET

CFN

6867

RE DIEARN PER HMMS-4495 EDWARD G TICHBORN PER HMMT-5791

BT

SECRET

N

•NNN

#4i-201-253203

---

## Page 162

5 shi

- CRIG: S:

SHORT

EXT

: 5126

DATE: 11 JANCARY 1965

MESSAGE FORM

TOTAL COPINS:

JHOINDEN

Bif5865 Ei

O FILE IN CS PILENO

TO

INFO:

FICH: DIRECTOR

crauf:

D AMIAN TO BRANCH

O FILE BID

33z

INFO

CITE DIR

RYBAT

71438

HMA.

MA BOGO HAS PORWARDED

I SENIS RECOMMENDATION TO

ODACID THROUGH

THAT PBPRINE ADVISER NITH

EXPERIENCE IN ELECTIONS AND PUBLIC RELATIONS TECHNIQUBS BE MADE

AVAILABLE TO ASSIST CARLOS LLERAS RESTREPO IN EIS CAMPAIGN FOR

PRESIDENCY COLOMBIA. ODACID/KUBARK DISCUSSION NOW UNDERWAY

CONCERNING REQUIREKENT AND DESIRABILITY SUCH ASSISTANCE.

2. IN EVENT DECISION MADE CARRY OUT THIS PROGRAM KUBARK TILL

BE ACTION AGENCY, SINCE TICHBORN STILL UNDER CONSIDERATION FOR POSSIBLE

BOLIVIA ASSIGNMENT, EQS NOW CONSIDERS

BEST QUALIFIED

INDIVIDUAL PRESENTLY AVAILABLE THIS TASK.

COVER WOULD

PROBABLY BE THAT OF PRIVATE PEPRIVE CITIZEN VEC IS SPECIALIST IN

ELECTION TECHNIQUES AXD BAS WIDE EXPERIENCE THIS FIELD. HQ AND

STATION WOULD ESTABLISH NOMINAL COVER SUFFICIENT TO ESTABLISH

PRECLUSE

BONA FIDES AND PRECIDE WEAKENING

_SECURITY UPON RETURN MEXICO.

SiS.

•3.

REQUEST COMMENTS RE SUITABILITY AND AVAILABILITY

FOR PERIOD THREE TO FOL WEEKS SOMETINE PRIOR TO COLOMBIAN

( CONTINUED)

1rw.t1m8:88dk

SECRET

081-2.53103

AUTHENTICATINO

OFFICEN

---

## Page 163

dead d

MESSAGE FURN

TOTALCOPIES

CAIG :

UNIT:

CXT

DATE :

TO

FROM DIRECTOR

CONF:

с..;,і:

xxxx0x%%

5

DJ INDEE

DAD INORT

D FILENCE MILENO.

3

INTO: VA, FILE CO RID COPY

TO

INFO

CITE DIR

PAGE

THO

71438

CONGRESSIONAL ELECTION WHICH NOW SCHRDULED 20 MARCH. PRESIDENTIAL

FLECTION FOLLONS IN L'AY BOT

CONTRIBUTION WOULD BE GREATEST

IN PERIOD PRECEDING CONGRESBIONAL ELECTION.

IKD OF MESSAGE

020/C 87

AC/ WED

HITHER

САВІШАТІНО OFF

BECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER

THAN THE ISSUING

OFFICE IS PROMIDITIO

ACTMANTICATINO

00ПI66

---

