io4t0446- 10265, ; : : ie

E”QNTERNAL USE ONY Seppey

Journal - Office of Legislative Counsel Page 4
Friday - 24 March 1978 5 t

16, (Unclassified - RSG) LIAISON Took a call from Leslie, in
the office of Senator Mark O. Hatfield (R., Ore, ), who inquired about a
tour of the CIA for four constituents. I.advised her that no tours were
available but that we would be happy to forward press kits for each of the
constituents. Leslie indicated she would call back if she wanted us to do So.

. “17, (Secret - RSG) LIAISON Gary Cornwell, Deputy Staff Chief,
: ‘House Select Committee on Assassinations, visited Headquarters to discuss
methods for er luterviews of a former Agency source.

parte 18.. (Unclassified - RSG) LIAISON Betsy Wolf and Robert Genzman,
House Select Committee on Assassinati staff, visited Headquarters to review
Agency material te : :

19.. (Unclassified - RJK) LIAISON Received a call from Louis
Hunter, GAO, who requested the status of their request for Agency
information on technology transfer. After checking with Bob Hepworth,
NFAC/CSS,: I told Hunter that there was a National Intelligence Officer

. who could sit down with the GAO people but he would be occupied on

‘_ another project for about two weeks. Hunter said this would be
acceptable and we agreed to get back in touch with one another at that time.

20. (Unclassified - RLB) LEGISLATION Spoke with Bob Carlstrom,
OMB, and told him that the substance of the letter from Jack Blake, DDA, to
Representative Bill Burlison (D., Mo.) had been included as a submission
for the record in the transcript of Mr. Blake's testimony on 7 March before
‘Representative Burlison's Subcommittee, and that the final portion of the
letter, regarding suggested statutory changes, with which OMB was concerned,
was not included. tis

way ee Helle, ¥
YLE L, MILLER
Acting Legislative Counsel

ce: SEGzET

O/DDCI Mr. Lapham ¥
Mr. ‘\Grinwis Mr. Hetu

Ex. Sec. SA/DO/O

DDA DDS&T IC Staff

NFAC Comptroller : o/ 370Q
