# 104-10112-10142

## Page 1

104-10112-10142)

Office Memorandum

TO

: FIle

FROM : Alien Affairs Officer

SUBJECT: CONTI Aguero, Luis Ernesto

HIS!

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

DATE:

22 March 1961

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

-Sp.526

1. Mr. Roy Wade, State Visa Office, celled me this morning

concerning subject. He stated we have had this fellow before on

another matter. He was a Castroite who defected and came to the

U. So last April under parole. Our Political Desk got I&NS to

unshackle him. His family is currently in Mexico. The subject

Left the U.S. and returned sometime in June 1960, at which tim

I&NS cancelled his visa, but we did ask hinto do this. Ibe

subject is currently in Buenos Aires, Argentina, as an applicant

for a nonimmigrant visa!*

2. Mr. Wade requested that we inform him whether or not

we have an interest in subject.

3. Mr. Pennington contacted Mr. Wade and requested that

the subject be elven a NIV to the States.

03

Os/MH-k stated that he bad checked 1n

WE and that they were interested In baving the subject return

to the States. Requested that Wil send un a memo since subject

will probably kare to be paroled upon entry by I&NS.

-

SEGRET

---

## Page 2

LinE

SP-526

83 MAR 1961

N. EArriS No luston, Acting Admintetrator

Bureau of Security and Comeular Affairs

Department of State

Tiashington 25, D. C.

Attentions Mr. James NcDonnell

Desz Bira

SUBJECT:. LulA Ernesto CONTI Aguero

Thin will conflen oral request made recently by an

employee of thia Agency to Mr. Wade of your Department

for the Issuance of a nontumigrant vian to the subject.

at Duenos Alres, Argentina, so that he may obtain trane...

portation to the United States.

Arzangements will be made with Ingration and Hat-

urlation service to parole subject upon artival

Tour cooperation in this mtter 1e rpreciated.

Sincerel5,

pr--

Sheffield Fdards

Director of Security

ce: Immigration and Naturalization Service

OS/AAS/JIM:es 22 Mar 61.:

NOT TO BE DISSEMINATES FURTEER OR EXHIBITED

TO ANYONE WITHOUT FAIRE PERRASSION OF THE

CENTRAL INTELUGENOS MENGI.

ches c096

Vir

5

19929474

---

