wa : i a) HReE

1404 ECRFT FRPH ee; eis
a” 10 2- STAFF
ACTION: LA-8 (792) WFO? FILE, VK. DCI/PA. DDU@4, CS/RE. DOA. C/PCS.
CA=4, CCS2, Clad, COMMORT, CWO-2, EPS/EG=2, IP/OMS, LSN/IL. UOPO=D, *
GED. OGC~2- OLE. $4¢00/0) SE48, SECUR=3 SIA/FL, SIA/IC. (63/n)
78 0258730,__ PAGE 001 IN 0258730
eeneaai TOR: 270151Z JAN 78 43699
Fiala elias Llp EU BNu EULER Manoa Ep ARMHEyap = MOIRA ESAS
SEC RE T 2700082 JAN 78 STAFF . geal
qt HSC"
cite 43699
Me >
TO: IMMEDIATE DIRECTOR. A) z
ary ey ae o
WNINTEL RAVIER MHSPLASH
.
REFS: A. CIRECTOR 154131 8,
B. DIRECTOR 154958 4

c. 3602 0236567 X&, :
7 >

1. REVIEW OF FRI DOCUMENTS RELATING TO LEE HARVEY " a
OSWALD TRANSMITTED BY TM=25066 WERE RECEIVED AT STATION
25 JAN AND HAVE BEEN REVIEWED. CONCUR HOS ASSESSMENT

CONCERNING POTENTIAL DAMAGE WHICH CAN BE DONE TO STATION'S
Ee | OPERATIONS pd [ieee ee CVE ES AS RESULT THEIR REVELATION.

* SHOULD DOCUMEN FACED MEXICO CITY. BELIEVE WE CAN

ANTICIPATE THAT SENIOR “MEXICAN GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS AWD

Ouk WILL BE SHOCKED (AS THEY WERE IN

CASE ONS) THAT AnY GUVERNMENT COULD

WILLINGLY REVEAL INFORMATION SQ EMBARRASSING AND COUNTER=

PRODUCTIVE TO BILATERAL RELATIONS.

2. IN ADDITION TO THE DOCUMENTS LISTED IN REF Be
THERE ARE OTHERS wHICH COME CLOSE 10 CONFIRMING COMMUNIST
ALLEGATIONS CONCERNING RELATIGNSHIPS BETWEEN FBI/CIA AND
ORGANIZATIONS AND OFFICIALS. HQS wILt
CALL THAT KDIMPACT/1 SPECIFICALLY WARNED (REF D) ABOUT
-CO*OPERATION wITH THE MIWISTRY UF GOVERNMENT BEING MADE PUBLIC
AND SAID THAT THIS WOULD "CAUSE GRAVE PROBLEMS FOR ALL
CONCERNED." SUM TOTAL THESE DOCUMENTS WILL GO A LONG WAY
TOWARDS CONFIRMING RECENT COMMUNIST ATTEMPT TO EMBARRASS THE
VICE*PRESIDENT BY SURFACING BANNER ARTICLE IN PROMIENT LOCAL
NEWSPAPER ABOUT CIA USE OF MEXICAN OFFICIALS TU SPY OW
MEXICG CREF C). SPECIFIC DOCUMENTS WHICH WILL SUPPORT THE
- COMMUNIST ALLEGATIONS ARE AS FOLLOWS:

A. BLIND MEMO BY FBI DATED MARCH 16. 1964 CAPTIONED.
LEE. HARVEY OSWALD." FIRST PARAGRAPH: "A CONFIDENTIAL
SOURCE ABROAD WHO IS THOROUGHLY FAMILIAR wITH THE WORKINGS
GF THE MEXICAN MINISTRY OF GOBERNACION JINTERIOR) HAS

SECRET

o7100)


SECRET
. STAFF
78 02587308 PAGE 002 In 0258756a
CORRECTED COPY TOR: 2701512 JAN 78 |aso99

ame owen ewe ee ce mee wee m enero rene cen ee een ener erase awe ee SESS SSC emenenemmasenee

FURNISHED THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION CONCERNING THE PROCEDURES
UTILIZED BY THE MEXICAN IMMIGRATION SERVICE IN CONNECTION
WITH THE ENTRY AND DEPARTURE OF NON@MEXICAN CITIZENS INTO
AND OUT OF MEXICU."

B. URGENT CLASSIFIED TELEGRAM TO DIR/FBI FRUM
LEGAT MEXICO CITY, NO. 3606 DATED 2-764, CONTAINS STATEMENT:
"LIC. LUIS ECHEVERRIA, ACTING MINISTER OF GOBERNACION. WILL
BE NOTIFIED RE POSSIBLE POLYGRAPH EXAMIWATION OF ROJAS. HIS
IDENTITY AND ALLEGATIONS MADE BY ROJAS RE KENNEDY ASSASSINATION
AND ECHEVERRIA'S COGPERATION REGUESTED TG CONDUCT SAID
EXAMINATION." -

C. MEMO TO DIRECTOR, FHI FROM LEGAT. MEXICO. DATED

APRIL 28, 1964 REVIEWS INVESTIGATIUNS CARRIED OUT BY FBI
AGENTS IN MEXICO CITY. UNDER “S& JOSEPH B. GARCIA“ ON PAGE
TWO APPEARS THE FOLLOWING REPORT: “HANDLED LIAISON WITH THE
MEXICAN MINISTRY OF GOVERNMENT, RECEIVING COPIES OF DOCUMENTS
AND DATA FROM LICENCIAOO CATTORWEY) LUIS ECHEVERRIA. ACTING
MINISTER, AND THE SUB@DIRECTOR OF THE DEPARTMENT OF IMMIGRATION.

cma LICENCIADO RAFAEL HERNANDEZ OCHOA. ALSO HANDLED LIAISON WITH

aes. THE MEXICAN FEDERAL SECURITY POLICE AND ARRANGED FOR DELIVERY
OF A COPY OF THE SIGNED STATEMENT OF SILVIA TIRADO DE DURAN
BY CAPTAIN FERNANDO GUTIERREZ BARRIOS."

DO. BLIND FBI MEMO DATED MAY 5S. 1964 AND CAPTIONED
"LEE HARVEY USwALD" SAYS ON PAGE 9: “ON MARCH 24, 1964.
CAPTAIN FERNANDO GUTIERREZ BARRIOS. SUB=DIRECTOR OF THE
MEXICAN FEDERAL SECURITY POLICE (DFS). ADVISED THE THIRD
CONFIDENTIAL SGUKCE ABROAD THAT HIS AGENCY HAD CONDUCTED
NO INVESTIGATION IN CGNNECTION WITH THE TRAVEL IN MEXICO
QF LEE HARVEY’ OSWALD AND DID NOT HAVE IN ITS POSSESSION ANY
PASSENGER LISTS FROM ANY BUS LINES."

3. GTHER DOCUMENTS OFFICIAL RECOGNIZE THAT CIA IS

ACTIVE IN MEXICO CITY, THAT CIA MAINTAINS A STATION IN

MEXICO CITY, HAS JURISDICTION OVER AND MONITORS THE

ACTIVITIES OF THE CUBAN AND SUVIET EMBASSIES. AND CONDUCTS

"SENSITIVE COVERAGE" OF THESE INSTALLATIONS (PHOTOGRAPH) «

PRIOR ALLEGATIONS OF CLANDESTINE ACTIVITIES OF THE FBI IN
- MEXICO ARE ALSO CONFIRMED BY STATEMENTS SUCH AS "“DECLASSIFICATION
(OF THE DOCUMENT) WOULD DAMAGE OUR OPERATIONS Iw MEXICO
Civ," REFERRED TO IN AT LEAST FIVE DOCUMENTS. TwO UF THE
DOCUMENTS GO SU FAR AS 10 IDENTIFY THAT THE FBI HAD A
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMANT (AN ACCOUNTANT) IN THE CUBANA AIRLINES
“OFFICE IN MEXICO CITY. ANOTHER MEMO DATED APRIL 1, 1964

SECRET


SECRET

78 0258730A PAGE 003 IN 02587304

CURRECTED COPY TOR: 270151Z JAN 78 ia 43699

ACKNOWLEOGES THAT CIA HAD AW OPS INTEREST AT ONE TIME OR ANGTHER
IN THREE ANTI©CASTRO GROUPS, THE DRE, JURE. AND 30TH OF
NOVEMBER.

4. HGS STATED IN REF 8B THAT IT HAD MADE RECOMMENDATIONS
TO THE FKI/FOIA FOR FURTHER DELETIONS IN. ANO DENIAL OF,
CERTAIN DOCUMENTS. wE ARE ESPECIALLY CONCERNED ABOUT THE FOUR
DOCUMENTS LISTED IN PARAGRAPH ONE ABUVE. PLS ADVISE URGENTLY WHAT
ACTION WAS TAKEN BY THE FBI CUNCERNING THESE SPECIFIC DOCUMENTS.
PRESUME THAT ALL DOCUMENTS NOw MADE PUBLIC AND THUS TOO LATE ®
TO DENY THEIR RELEASE. .
S. STATION PLANNING PROVIDE COPES OF ALL THE
DOCUMENTS 10 KDIMPACT/1 IN ORDER TO ALERT HIM WHAT TYPE OF
PUBLICITY MAY BE FORTHCOMING.

6. FILE: 200"120"150. E2+s IMPDET.

END OF MESSAGE SECRET
