# 104-10071-10387

## Page 1

104-10071-10387

SECRET

2 MAY 1968

RePORANDON FOR:

SUBJECT

Director

Federal Bureau of Invertigation

• Do. Martte lather K0G, J%.

1.

Reference is made to this Agency's out message

number 94270 dated 25 April 1968 concerning the assass1-

ntlos of dI. hartin luther KING, Jr.

2=

On 16 April Roderick Claflin BROWN, a Panamanian

national born 1 July 1917 in British Honduras, voluntarily

appeared at the Department of National Investigations (DINI)

of the Republic of Panana and signed & deposition, the

highlights of which are as follows:

(1) On 26 October 1962 he servod as cook/seaman

aboard the lexaco S.S. Southhampton which docked at Mobile,

Alabama.

(2) While on a shore vialt to the Mobile airport

on the morning of 26 October 1952 in the company of two

fellow Panamanian seamen, he was approached by Marvin P.

LITTRELL, OWner Of LITTRELI. Notor Co., 921-25 South Clinton

Street, Athens, Alabama, who after ascertaining BROWN was

& Panamanian seaman, asked 11 he knew of Di. Martin Iuther

KING, JI.

(3) LITTRILL Inquired whether BROWN was interested

In employment, the details of which were unspecified. He

went on to describe DI. KING as "Our greatest problem who

1s causing us much trouble." He gave BROTN a business card

to use in the event he was interested in pursuing the employ-

ment offer.

(4) On 28 January 1963 BROWN wrote LITTERLI frOm

New York City, stating he was interested 1D a job and

SECRET

09858

life Kans

assasses

---

## Page 2

14-00000

roquested $75 for travel fron Hew York City to Mobile.

On 2 February 1963 BROMY reCeived & reply IrON LITTE,

restating that he bad a job vaiting for BROWN 1a Alabana,

but questioning why $75 was needed since the fare was less

than $10 by bus.

•(5) After discussions with a relative and Islends

1n New York City, BROWN suspected that the LITTRial job

offer was related with assassination plans for di. lie.

-Therefore he did not respond to the LITIRILl letter and

dissianed the incident until the deeth of Dr.. KING in

April 1968-

BROWN returned to Paname 1u. 196%.

3.

Enclosed for you information 1s a copy of tbe

LITIRELL. lotter and the Spanish language deposition made

by BROIN, as well as an English translation of the deposition

as described in paragraph 2 of the referenced out message.

FOR TER DEPUTY DIRECTOR FOR PLANS:

Signed: James 2 Errit:

JAMES ANGESTON

CSCI-316/01702-68

• 3 Inclosures

FH/2/Panama

cib

2 May 1968

Distribution:

Orig &

1 - Addressee,

w/atts

- C1/ R&A (Dummy

- CI/LIA (Dummy

2

- WH/ 2/ Panama

- CI/OPS/DO, #/atts

Based on:

PANAMA CITY 6180 (IN 97566)

SECRET

---

