ad a hee oe mo

iO: CORFIDERTIAL (1 secret

| a

,is in the form of documents sent.

n.

' action — originally|

—
FORM
3-62

15.

Herewith are 15 copies of.

4 he two compelling FOTA requests
‘of the moment, Belin asking for °»

éverything while Fensterwald has

been very specific. Belin was

counsel to the Rockefeller Commiss:

n our slovmess to respond as an

“Agency. “Bensterwald has both

entered an appeal on-our failure

“to respond within FOIA limits, and)“

has already gone to litigation.

The request of Mark Lane, a
opy of. which I passed out. to allay
seems moot. at this point inasi mach”
he has:not. responded to our
requirement of check for $608.00

,.Search fee. I have not been able |
} to get’.an answer from OGC as to }
: whether this is still an open case}. j

However, if it is still open, th
work for Belin as applicable a ‘

There. is, at least one request|
Harold Weisberg, 75-1765) which

from National Archives for review:
and now within the CI Staff for .»

now Ethel Mendosa, I understand.

Several of the remaining case
have been completed, or at least
require ho further search at this
time. Completion of the machine - }‘
run should make available what wil
be needed in the future for”
handling those and other requests.

If questions arise, I can be
reached at home on 91-h614. “P|

C_conrine Cy teat) unctassi

and has.been of concern to the DCI} 4



J. avia’w. Belin’ | (5963)

a all material and documents
which the CIA had in its possession at the time of the Warren Commission
investigation which in any manner whatsoever relate to the assassination
of President Kennedy and the investigation of that assassination by
the Warren Comndasion. .

ee

A copy of every photograph taken of the
unidentified man" in Mexico, by himself :
regardless of date or placer

ist)

Ar f ‘the dates upon which each such
z Photograph was thought to have been taken;

3) all agency records relating to the "unidentifiea
man", including but not limited to attempts to
reach a Positive identification; 5

‘A copy ‘of every photograph taken of Lee
Harvey Oswald, by himself or with others,
“an Mexico City;

sgt ase :
“ALL agency. ee relating to
£ photographs} }o£ Lee Harvey’ Oswald in ™
lexico Cityz:or,./if:no-such ‘photographs :were
taken,” all: agency records relating to the
absence: of such photographs in view of

swald’s. several. alleged visits to both the
i enasorts Consulates

‘copy POE. ‘every photograph taken of Lee
vey Oswald, by himself or with others,
in New Orleans'in 1963, including but not |

2)..A record of ‘the dates upon which each such
photograph was thought to have been taken
“and the location within New Orleans if
knowns and

3) All agency records relating to such photo-
graphs.

‘0 , avoia any’ problem of identification, there is attached
hereto Mr. Belin's correspondence, as well as certain of the
Pleadings in Civil No. 861-72. .; Additionally, there is also attacied
certainsijpages from Philip Agee’s book Inside the Company, in
which he publicly details the surveillance facilities at the Soviet
and Cuban:installations in Mexico City at the approximate time in
question.. : ; aa



J...  vavia'w. “Belin” | (5963)

_.. all material and documents 7
which the cIA haa in, its possession at the time of the Warren Commission
investigation which in any manner whatsoever relate to the assassination
of President Kennedy and the Saini ao of that assassination by

the, Warren Conmission.

prose
‘A douy' Of every photograph taken of the
“unidentified man” in Mexico, by himself
or with others, (regardless of date or place;

A record of the dates upon which each such
photograph was thought to have been taken;

“3) all agency records relating to the "unidentified —
man", including but not limited to attempts to
reach a positive identification;

A copy of every photograph taken of Lee
Ly Harvey Oswald. by himself or with others,
“An Mexico Citys.

A ecord of the dates upon which each such
“photograph was- thought. to have besa taken;
He et RE %
) ALL ‘agency sas 3 kelating to ; “taking ”
£-photographs;of Lee Harvey’ Oswald in
i;Mexico City;.or,* if no such photographsiwere
cditaken,: all. agency records relating to. the .
sence: of such photographs in view of ==!”
‘Oswald's several.alleged visits to both the
Soviet: and Cuban Embassies, and/or Consulates
‘Sim Mexico city: iy

A ‘copy ‘of every: photograph taken of Lee
Harvey Oswald, by himself or with others,
in New Orleans'in 1963, including but not
Limited to Jackson Square; a)

A record of the dates upon which each such
photograph was thought to have been taken
and the location within New Orleans if
known? and

3) All agency records relating to such photo-
graphs.

7 To avoid any problem of identification, there is attached
hereto Mr. Belin's correspondence, as well as certain of the
Pleading: in Civil No. 861-72. Additionally, there is also attacind
certainy3}’pages from Philip Agee's book Inside the Company, in

\which he publicly details the surveillance facilities at the Soviet
and Cuban installations in Mexico City at the approximate time in

question.

Hepa



J... vavia'w.'Beiin | (5963)

en all material ant and “documents
which the CIA had in its Possession at the time of the Warren Commission
investigation which in any manner whatsoever relate to the assassination
of President Kennedy and the investigation of that assassination by
the, jweezen Commission. we

‘V Copy: of ‘every Photog:

"unidentified man" in Mexico, by himself
or with others; iregardless of date or places:
A. eo ‘of the dates upon which each. onc
photograph was thought to have been taken;

ALL agency records relating to the "unidentified
man”, including but not limited to attempts to
“ reach a positive identification;

A copy ‘of every. photograph taken of Lee
Harvey Oswald, by himself or with others,
in Mexico City :

6 dates upon which each such

a'record of.
to have been taken;

Mexico Cityz-.or,.;if no: such photographsswere

‘A copy'of every’ photograph taken of Lee = :
Harvey Oswald, by himself or with others, =~
in New Orleans-in 1963, including but not
/ Limited to. Jackson Square (93° |:

A record of the dates upon which each such
photograph was thought. to have been taken
yand the location within New Orleans if -
known —_ i

All agency records telating to such photo-
gzaphs.,

To avoid any Sroblen of identification, ‘there is attached
hereto Mr. Belin's correspondence, as well as certain of the
pleadings in Civil No. 861-72. Additionally, there is also attacied
certainsit pages from Philip Agee's book Inside the Company, in

‘which he publicly details the surveillance facilities at the Soviet
and Cuban.installations in Mexico City at the approximate time in
question



13;00000 __..

L pavia a Belin. | (5963)

Hh. ns . all material an and documents — a
which the CIA had in in its possession vat the time of the Warren Commission
investigation which in any manner whatsoever relate to the assassination
of President Kennedy and the inves! igation of that assassination by
the Warren Commission.

=n cony-of avery photograph taken of the
"unidentified man" in Mexico, ‘by himself
or with others, ‘regardless of, date or place;

“a Eecord of the dates upon which each such
| Photograph was thought to have been taken

ALL agency records relating to the. wunidentifiea x
man", including but not limited to attempts to
reach a positive oer eer p

A copy of every photograph taken of Lee
Harvey. Oswald, by himself or with others,
: jim Mexico City. i

bo gia
“ALE agency ‘records Pee to'the taking

£: ‘photographs £ Lee Harvey’ Oswald in”
Mexico Cityz/or,iif-no*such photographs:were

Oswald's several alleged visits to both the
Soviet. and Cuban Emba: sies; p and/es Consulates

copy of every ‘photograph taken of Lea

Harvey Oswald, ‘by himself or with others,

“°in New Orleans in 1963, including but not
limited to Jackson Square; 7?

A record of the dates upon which each such
“photograph was thought to have been taken
and the location within New Orleans if
knownz an

3) All agency ‘records relating to such photo=
graphs. ;

“'go avoid any problem of identification, there is attached

hereto Mr... Belin's correspondence, as well as certain of the
pleadings in Civil No. 861-72... Additionally, there is also attacted
certainyippagées from Philip Agee's book Inside the Company, in
which he publicly details the surveillance facilities at the Soviet

“and Cuban. installations in. Mexico city at the approximate time in
question. #1



L., rivia'ws sonia | (5963)

cad oe all material and documents
which the CIA had “in its ‘possession at: the time of the Warren Commission
investigation which in any manner whatsoever relate to the assassination
of President Kennedy and the tavestigation of that assassination by
the Warren Commission.

wach

fhe dates upon which each such
photograph was: thought to have been taken;

ALL agency records relating to 7 wunidenti fied
man",. including but not limited to attempts to
reach a@ positive identification;

A copy of every photograph taken of Lee
Harvey Oswald, by himself or with others,

A d of the dates upon which each such
hotograph was- thought to have: been taken;
layer : Seca
Tiagency records relating to ‘the taking’
yE: ‘photographs }0f Lee Harvey’ Oswald in
«Mexico Cityz:or,;1£:no: such photographsiwere
aken all. agency records: relating to the :

a
‘copy’ of every photograph taken of Lee
Harvey Oswald, by himself or with others,
in New: Orleans-in 1963, including but not |
Limited to Jackson Square; [5

A record of the dates upon which each such
photograph was thought to have been taken
and the location within New Orleans if
known: and | $
All ‘gency’ records relating to such photo-
graphs -
Sig”
9 avoid any problem of identification, there is attached
“hereto Mr. Belin's correspondence, as well as certain of the
pleadings in Civil No. 861-72..Additionally, there is also attacied
certainty pages from Philip Agee’s book Inside the Company, in
‘which he publicly details the surveillance facilities at the Soviet
acand Cuban installations in. Mexico city at the approximate time in
= question,



J. _sobavia'w, pein’ | (5963)

.. ‘all material and documents ~
which the CIA had in its possession at’ the time of the Warren Commission
investigation which in any manner whatsoever relate to the assassination
of President Kennedy and the investigation of that assassination by

the, Warren Commission. i 3 ae

5 i ete zs

A copy: of wrery” ‘photograph taken’ ‘of the
“ Bony telat man” in Mexico, by himself
‘or. beers others,

2) 0a ecord. ‘dates upon which each such ..
ze “photograph was: thought to have been taken

3) ALL agency records relating to the "unidentified
: man", including but not limited to attempts to
¥ reach a positive identification; Se

A Gopy of every photograph taken of Lee
Harvey Oswald, by himself or with others,
in Mexico city: aes

A Tecord of ‘the dates upon which each such
Bhotoge set was: gronghe, 5° so have been taken;

cy’

£' photographsof Lee Harvey’ Oswald: in
ico City: or, if no:such. photographs were
aken,;all. agency records relating to the
absence: of such photographs in view of 3
“Qswald’s- several. alleged visits to both the
{, Soviet and Cuban Embassies; and/or Consulates
San Mexico city}:

‘copy ‘of every: photograph takan of Lee :
Harvey Oswald, ‘by himself.or with others,
“in New Orleans in 1963, including but not _
“Limited to. Jackson Square; 35,5

A record of the dates upon ‘which each such
- photograph was thought. to have been taken
read and the location within New Orleans if
* known? ane Libs
3) ALL agency ‘records relating to such photo-
graphs.

- VS" fo avoid any ‘problem of identification, there is attached
hereto Mr. Belin's correspondence, as well as certain of the
pleadings in Civil No. 861-72... Additionally, there is also attacled
certaing} pages from Philip Agee's book Inside the Company, in
which he publicly details the surveillance facilities at the Soviet
and Cuban installations in. Mexico city 2 at the approximate | time in
question. <*; . :



TL. saviaw. patina | (5963)

‘all material and documents —

which the CIA had in its possession at: the time of the Warren Commission
investigation which in any manner whatsoever relate to the assassination
of President Kennedy and the investigation sg cae assassination ce
the Warren a

YAP

a ay
‘A copy of every’ photograph taken of the -
wunidentified man* in Mexico, by himself
‘the dates upon which each such |
oe thought. to. have been taken;

ALL agency etcaraal felating to the "unidentified
man", including but not limited to attempts to
“reach ‘a positive identification;

‘A copy of every photograph taken of Lee
Harvey..Qswald,: by himself or with others, i
in Mexico City; 7 :

LA‘record of. ‘the ates” upon which each such
“ photograph ‘was- thought, to have been: taken;

5 a ‘photographs }O£ Lee. Harvey’ Oswald in
fexico Cityacory i£:no;such photographs:were
agency records: relating to the

A copy BOE every” ‘photograph ‘taken of Lee
Harvey ‘Oswald, ‘by himself or with others,
in New: Orleans: in 1963,. including but not -
(limited to. dackson Squares in)" 2,

A ¥ecord of the dates upon ‘which each such
photograph was thought to have been taken

and the location within New Orleans if .
“knowng and .0°%:

All agency records relating to’ such photo-
graphs.

u 0 avoid any" problem of identification, there is attached
hereto Mr. Belin's correspondence, as well as certain of the
pleadings in Civil No. 861-72. Additionally, there is also attacind
certainilpages from Philip Agee's book Inside the Company, in ode
which he publicly details the surveillance facilities at the Soviet © P
and Cuban:installations in Mexico City at the approximate time in .
question



L bivia wiHatta | (5963)

_.. ‘all material ana documents
which the cIA haa in in its possession at: the time of the Warren Commission
investigation which in any manner whatsoever relate to the assassination
of President Kennedy and the investigation of that assassination Py
—_ Warren Commission. K

‘A copy: of rey photograph taken of the.

unidentified man"-in Mexico, by himself
with others,

‘the dates upon which each such:
photograph was’ thought, to have been taken

* ALL agency records relating to the. wunidentified
man"“,. including but not limited to attempts to
‘reach ‘a positive identification;

“A Gopy of every ‘photograph. taken of Lee - ;
Harvey, Oswald, by himself or with others,

ord of ‘the ‘Gates’ upon which’ each such
preheat was: gponsh it. to ante been, n Salen:

lexico Citys:or,/ if: no; such photographs:were
aken,\ all. agency records relating to the
‘absence: of: such: photographs ‘in view of

‘Garvey Oswald, by himself or with others,
“Jin New Orleans-in 1963, including but not _
; Limited to, Jackson Square; 3) *

ee [A ecora of the dates ‘upon which each such
oy ‘ ‘photograph was thought. to have been taken
and the-location within New Orleans if
known aa :

3) ‘ail agency records telating to such photo-
graphs - pone or

be To avoid any’ problem of identification, there is attached
hereto Mr. Belin's correspondence, as well as certain of the
pleadings in Civil No. 861-72... Additionally, there is also attacied
certainii pages from Philip Agee's book Inside the Company, in
which he publicly details the surveillance facilities at the Soviet
.-and Cuban: installations in Mexico city at the approximate ¢ time in -
question.. sy



i -_ _.. all material and documents
which the CIA had in its pos: on at the time of the Warren Commission
investigation which in any manner whatsoever relate to the assassination
of President Kennedy and the investigation of that assassination by
—_ ,Warren Commission. cary

SE
A. record of the dates upon which each ‘such ©
photograph was thought. to have been taken,

ALL agency records relating to the "unidentified
man", including but not limited to attempts to
reach a: positive identification;

1) A copy of every photograph taken of Lee
Harvey: Oswald, by oomeas or Cane others,
ty. :

A ‘record of the dates upon which’ each such
“photograph was: fhough to have been takeny
ae: a

£\photographsj6f Lee Harvey Oswald in =”
texico Cityz..or,/ if no; such photographsiwere

absence: of: ‘such: photographs ‘in view of ==!
swald's.saveral. alleged visits to both the
(Soviet. and Cuban Enbassies” and/or Consulates

‘A copy of every: photograph taken of Lee
Harvey Oswald, by himself or with others,
in New Orleans:in 1963, including but not

Limited to Jackson Squarer 3) a

A record of the dates upon which each such
photograph was thought to have been taken
and the location within New Orleans if
“known and.”

All agency ‘records relating to such photo-
graphs

‘ “po avoid any’ yroblem of identification, there is attached
‘hereto mr Belin's correspondence, as well as certain of the
pleadings in Civil No. 861-72... Additionally, there is also attacied
certainy3p'pages from Philip Agee's book Inside the Company, in

which he publicly details the surveillance facilities at the Soviet
qvand Cuban installations in Mexico city at-the approxinate time in
. -;question., sane



L bivia We Belin | (5963)

all material and documents
which the cIA had in in its possession at the time of the Warren Commission
investigation which in any manner whatsoever relate to the assassination
of President Kennedy and the investigation « of that assassination by
the Warren Commission.

ee AA paca .
copy: y of every ‘photograph taken of the

“unidentified man" in Mexico, by himself
or. with others, ree of Sate or x Places

ALI agency records relating to the - sunfaentifiea ~~
man", including but not limited to Chad to
reach a positive identification;

A copy of every: photograph. taken of Lee
Harvey. Oswald, by himself or Geen others,
in Mexico City Fy :

A ‘Zecord of ‘the dates upon vhich each such
photograph was. thought. to have been taken;

cy ing t
£" photographs jof Lee Harvey Oswald in 7"!
fexico ‘Citys:or, if:no>such photographs;were
‘taken, all: ; agency records: relating to.the =
Yabsence: of such photographs ‘in view of j
Oswald"'s several alleged visits ‘to both the

‘A copy’ of every: photograph taken of Lee
jj Haxvey ‘Oswald, by himself or with others,
vim New Orleans’ in 1963, including but not —
“Limited to. Jackson squarer (5 ,

A record of the dates upon which each such
. photograph was thought to have been taken
Svand the location within New Orleans if
“known; poo! .

*-3) ALL agency feccras Pore to’ such photo-
graphs. A

-“@o avoid any problem of identification, there is attached
héreto Mr. Belin's correspondence, as well as certain of the

pleadings in Civil No. 861-72... Additionally, there is also attacled
ceértainyiipages from Philip Agee's book Inside the Company, in

which he publicly details the surveillance facilities at the Soviet
and Cuban installations in Mexico City at the approximate time in
:question.. :*;



L pavid W. Belin. \ (5963)

a a all material “ana documents
which the CIA had 4 in “its possession at the time of the Warren Commission
investigation which in any manner whatsoever relate to the assassination
of President Kennedy and the investigation of that assassination by

pejeenree poeeaerar

‘A Eecord of the dates upon which each such .
photograph was Thought, to have een taken;

“ALL agency records relating to the "unidentified
man", including but not limited to attempts to
reach Positive identification;

A copy of every photograph taken of Lee
/ Harvey. Qswald, by himselt or with others,

“a'fecora of the dates upon which each such
photograph was: thought to

AlE-agency: ehords ‘Felating tothe. taxing

‘of photographs iof Lee Harvey’ Oswald in

Mexico’ Cityz.or,/if no:such photographs<wer
th

‘absence: of such: photographs ‘in view of =:*
Oswald's ‘several. alleged visits to both the
Soviet’ and Cuban Embassies and/or Consulates

uae ; :
py of every photograph taken of Lee
Harvey Oswald, by himself or with others,
in New Orleans in 1963, including but not _
“Limited to Jackson square; 3\3 :

A record of the dates upon which each such
:: photograph was thought to have been taken

and the location within New Orleans if
‘known; and.”

“"-3) ALL agency records relating to such photo-
graphs. ;

{"To avoid any problem of identification, there is attached
hereto Mr..Belin's correspondence, as well as certain of the
‘pleadings in Civil No. 861-72. Additionally, there is also attacied
certaini:i) pages from Philip Agee's book Inside the Company, in
which he publicly details the surveillance facilities at the Soviet
grand elon, installa‘ ions in Mexico City at the approximate | time in
: question. ae of I



= all material and “documents |
which the CIA haa i in its possession at the time of the Warren Commission
investigation which in any manner whatsoever relate to the assassination

of President Kennedy and the investigation of that assassination by

the, Warren Seeneae

“A record ‘of the dates upon which each such
photograph was thought to have been taken;

+2)

All agency records relating to the “unidentified

man", including but not limited to attempts to

“reach positive identification;

A copy of every photograph taken of Lee

Harvey. Oswald, by himself or with others, |

A'record of the dates upon which each such
photograph was; thought. to have been taken; : y

33) ALE agency ‘rec as relat ing to! "the: taking
-ofphotographsjof Lee Harvey Oswald in
«Mexico Cityzor, if no’ such photographswere |
jtaken,.all, agency records relating to the

absence-of:such photographs in.view of © ~

Oswald’s, several. alleged visits’ to both the
Soviet. and. Cuban Embassies? and/or Consulates
"Mexico 2 Cheyig

Harvey’ Oswald, by himself or with others,
~ in New Orleans:in 1963, including but not |
Limited to Jackson Square; 95

A record of the dates upon which each such
photograph was thought to have been taken
“and the location within New Orleans if
known? and é

3) All agency records relating to such photo-
graphs

* "To avoid any problem of identification, there is attached
hereto Mr. Belin's. correspondence, as well as certain of the
‘pleadings in Civil No. 861-72. Additionally, there is also attached
certainviipages from Philip Agee's book Inside the Company, in
which he publicly details the surveillance facilities at the Soviet

wand Cuban installations in Mexico City at the approximate time in
- question



T.._pavia o Belin | (5963)

—_ all “material and documents
which the CIA had in in its possession at the time of the Warren Commission
investigation which in any manner whatsoever relate to the assassination
of President Kennedy and the investigation of that assassination by
the Warren \icieesta eta

copy of every photograph taken of the
unidentified man" in Mexico, by himself
OF with ‘others, egardless of Sate or place

‘A record of ‘the dates upon which each such
“Photograph was thought to have been taken;

"3)" alt agengy records relating to the. sunidentified
man", including but not limited to attempts to
“peach a positive identification;

A copy of every photograph taken of Lee
Harvey. beberes by himself or with others,
in Mexi t: aT a

A record of the dates upon which each such
Phokogeaph wee. thought. to have been taken:

Sone
of: fs photographs} iof Lee Harvey’ Oswald in ie

“all. agency ‘records relating to the =
sence. of such photographs in view of *:
Oswald's: several. alleged visits to both the
joviet: and. Cuban Embassies, and/or \comratan bined

| Harvey Oswald, by himself or with others, x
in New Orleans in 1963, including but not we “
linitea to Jackson Square; re

A xecora of the dates upon vhich each such
: photograph was thought to have been taken
“and the location within New Orleans if
‘knowns and |

3) All agency records relating to such photo-
an, graphs. __ .

‘°° "To avoid any problem of identification, there is attached
hereto Mr..Belin’s correspondence, as well as certain of the
pleadings . in Civil No. 861-72..: Additionally, there is also attacied
cértainiw’ pages from Philip Agee's book Inside the Company, in

“which he publicly details the surveillance facilities at the Soviet
,and Cuban:installations in Mexico city at the approximate time in
“question. 3+; -



= all ‘material | and documents
which thé CIA had in its possession at the time of the Warren Commission
investigation which in any manner whatsoever relate to the assassination
of President Kennedy and the investigation of that assassination by
the Warren Commission. :

1) “A copy of avery photograph taken of the
“yf 'tunidentified man” in Mexico, by himself

2) h cocued of ‘the detae upon which each such
Photograph was thought to have been taken:

3): ALL agency records relating to the “unidentified
man", including but not limited to attempts to
reach a positive identification;

‘A copy of every photograph taken of Lee
by himself or with others,

Sof: pees Lee Harvey’ Oswald’in

“Oswald's. several. alleged visits to both the
; Soviet: and. Cuban Embassies; and/or Consulates

cA ‘copy ‘of every photograph taken of Lee
Harvey Oswald, ‘by himself or with others,
in New Orleans'in 1963, including but not
Limited to Jackson Square; 453) Be
A-record of the dates upon which each such
photograph was thought to have been taken
and the location within New Orleans if
cknownr and. 8)

3) All agency records relating to such photo-
graphs. .

To avoid any problem of identification, there is attached
hereto Mr.’ Belin's correspondence, as well as certain of the
‘“pleadings in Civil No. 861-72. Additionally, there is also attacted
cértainy:ipages from Philip Agee's book Inside the Company, in
which he publicly details the surveillance facilities at the Soviet
and Cuban installations in- Mex! City at the approximate time in
“question a

