104-10185-10093)

1 CENTRAL GNIELLGENCE AGINCY

Tie geteries cate acururg Us Hencot frm of Wie Unter Siete wins Woe winkcing of Os Beings Howe Thue

lafermation
YY WU RE beg SS sot TOL the Grummer ay Rreatiog Of when Th Any TRARCA WO AR UBecioar ond pee w penned by ee

SECRET : peeteeeied|
. NO FORMIGN DISSES i

REFORT NO. CSCI 316/01205-64

coneey Orbs

suaect Juan GUIDO Licea DATE DISTR «=-«-1'5. Septeuber 1084 7

No. PAGES 2 . :

’

EPERENCES is
: RETURN 70 cy rs

aoe Daun Leo oh
a Washington, D. c. : : bal Reproducg”

Date ACQSeptembor 1964 FELD REPORT NO. 7

Tes 3 UNEVALI ROGIAATION. BOUNCE GRADIION AR BEPONTIVE APUAISAL OF CONTENT 19 TENTATIVE

sources A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban ila ht
Service until April 1964. + :

Readquarters Comments ——4-- :
The following report is one of a series Siar peraouality
information provided by the source and includes supplepental --
information from the records of this Agency.

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any of
the individuals mentioned in the personality reports without
firet coed with a cole

ate

aa

A dean Juan GB3NOLdeos te known as # couriar ard often visits the "H*
Building of the Direcoion General de Inteligeacia (Gensral . ...,
Directorate of Intelligence - DOI) to pick up and deliver -
Tas According tq source, GUIDO ie aot @ meaber of the ‘por. ‘§
23

ate ti

‘ ‘Lei dn unteoted aouree, 4a a report aated march oe ‘otated tnat

{+ . @a@ Juan Guide LICRA Figueredo was a private in th
Intelligence Departzant, G-2, of the a eee Miniatry of fae

+, Armed Forcea (MINPAR)..." a

7 an ‘attachment to a report dated 6 Yotrusry 1962, vas a
List of mesbers of Cuban G-2. Included on this list was one
» Suen G. LICH vege who was identified as a soldier set

ae a are Pra ar iN ate
3. cin July. 1062 an “untosted foures reported that Guido LICRA was &

st and a.G-3 sargeayt in Habana and assigned to the
G-2 offices. at Sth and Lith Streets. Ho waa born about 1922,

wae



Prior to 1959 he wau a carpenter's helper.

180 pountn, and has 2 dock complexion.
Fe has a ao Walter,

army dn Pinar cat Rio.

fa {ive feet ten fochew fatl,

@tationas with the Rebel

The records of this Agency reveal the: f{cilewing travel of Juan
Guido LICE,

Figueredo, identified ag a Cuhan diplomatic courtor,
taken from fotficial travel manifesta, Hye dato of birth wae given
ae 14 February 1928 in Habana. 2 i : :

Lett Habana for Mexico

13 Septomber 1963 =

15 Soptember 1963 =~ Arrived Rio de Jausiro from Madrid

15 September 1963 ~ Left| Ric. de Janeiro for orem

11 October 1963 - - Arrived Brussels from London, ang parcy’
12 October 1963 - Left Briesela for Paris ery ieee ee fon
14 October 1963. .~ Left Geneva for Rome, .: 52 444. ee
12 Novembor 1963 - Left Habana for Mexico ‘

14 November 1963 ~ Arrived Montevideo from Bio de Janeiro

18 November 1963 - Left Montevideo for Santiago ,,

17 December 1963 .- Loft Rio de Janeiro for Mont:

21 January 1964 ~ Arcived Brussels from Prague ,

22 March 1964 = Left Santiago for Wontevideo | :

23 ee 1966 . A 5. Lett Montevideo for Bio de Janeiro

be Ph ces ene
Ina report dated 16 July 1964, ie vas stated ‘that Suna Guzzo! tices,
a Cuban diplomatic courier, had, applied for a Cangdian nop-imaigrant., .
visa in order to $isit the Cubao Embassy in Ottawa for’ a period of
one week. Tho following. information on GUIDO was takek from the

wi “ppl ideation:

. GUIDO was born on: 14 Febuary 1929 in. Habana, Cuba, and. ig .-
a Cuban citizen. He is a diplomatic courier for the Miatstry
of Poretgn Relations and his purpose of entry into Canada was

listed aa diplomatic courier. . He holda Cuban diplomatic... y+
passport D/64/250 issued on 10 April 1964 at'Habana. His
permanent addresa ae Calzada y G, Vedado, Habana, Cuba.

swone
OL

aoe ee
Bros

WO nee 3

Bet Dwr a8 ieeeseeee:

eat

=~ H -
RT NT EN te eetememunenatigat aie etree! oe

wn nel

i
i
i

