# 104-10227-10177

## Page 1

104-10227-10177

OR10:

UNIT

EXT

DATE:

WIT/L, PA- PROP

4935

29 SEPTEMBER 1961

10 .

JUNAVE

FROM,

DIRECTOR

134)

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

POUTING

30 SEP61 16 41 2

CONF

SO-CEN

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

INFO, DC1, D/OC1, DDP, COP, ADDP/A, WA 5, S/C 2.

52735

OUT52785

1O

WAVE

INFO

CITE ONE

15188

JAZIP: ADJOIN CA.

15188

RET HAVE 8164 IN 30431*

1. TTI HIGHER AUTHORITY ADVISED AMIUD-1 HE WOULD IS ALLOCATIO ADMOTH

2

BUDGET NEICHBORHOOD DYPAT DYNUR PER YEAR WITH CONSIDERARIR FLXXTBITITY USE.

THIS MONEY, AND THAT ALZOCATIONS OF MONEY. FOR ALL OTHER ACTIVITISS, INCLUDING

MOST FROP AND ALT CIAMESTIHE OPS INTO CURA, WOULD ES ON EASTS SPECIFIC

PROJECTS SUITED @YORE TOR APPROVAL.

2: ABOVE COMNITNKIPY IMPLIED EPTECTIVE INTEGRATIOS AULTUR INTO AMBUD

WHICH ACCODING PRESS RELRASE 7 SEPT WAS TO BE FORNALTYED NTSHIH ESK

OR TWO. THEREFORS PAXHKIT ON COMMITVENT TO AMBUD-1 WAS PREDICATED UPON

3

ELDDHATION ANTRON BUDGET.

3. PER DISCUSSIONS AMBUD-1 IRMETAL AMBUD-1 WILI, SUERCIT ACCOUNTINCS ALI

BYPPNDITURSS TO ATKI-I.

4. HOS FRACTION PARA 3 B IS THIS SHOULD PROBABLY IS SUDCCYATSD IN

1

REORCANTZAITON OF FOUNDING AND ADMIN PROCEDURES OF AMBUD-1.

END OF MESSACE

#WH Consanta:

Copeurned October funding ETU and CRO and ataferanta made to ANTIKI-1

by MORO re MIRO's recent meeting vith Mr. Goodwin at the White House.

WHA/Finance

J. C. KING

ANto once

Attens

OOFDIHALINO OPPIER

5. X. DAVIS

S-F-C-R-E-T

GONNA HITEACAIINO ORACE

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS ANOHIBITED.

Copy No.

---

