# 104-10435-10009

## Page 1

1104-10435-10009

3

SENDER WILL CHECK CLASSIFICATION TOP AND BOTTOM

UNCLASSIFIED

CONFIDENTIAL

SECRET

OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP

NAME AND ADDRESS

CI staff

AHn!

George Bradley

CT-5

DATE

INITIALS

ACTION

APPROVAL

COMMENT

CONCURRENCE

Remarks:

DIRECT REPLY

DISPATCH

FILE

INFORMATION

PREPARE REPLY

RECOMMENDATION

RETURN

SIGNATURE

Resanitized copy.of

Memo #8 ot the

Gaurison packase, Per

our telecon.

FORMONO. 237

FOLD HERE TO RETURN TO SENDER

FROM: NAME. ADDRESS AND PHONE NO.

PROPIC

UNCLASSIFIED

CONFIDENTIAL

Use previous editions

#GlO: 19740-335-851

DATE

22/2/76

SECRET

(40)

---

## Page 2

13-00000

12 JAN 1023

MEMORANDUM NO. 8

SUBJECT:

Garrison and the Kennady Assassination

I. SUMMARY

1. This memorandu:n la lengthy secause it reporta on tbirty

persons lavolvad in Garrison's investigation. / Eight of these have or

had DDP ties. (O1 these edght, three bave or had some contact with

the Domestic Contact Service as well.) Eighi more were Dos contacts.

Fourtoen had no alfillation with the Agency but clalmed to have or were

sald by othero to have bad such a relationship. Seven of total of tultty

have not appeared previously in this sezles.

3. The DD? contacts are the following:

a. Erascisco Antonio BARTES Clarens.

Cuban refugee

leader la New Orisans who haz cone to Garrison's attention.

DDP allot 20 July 1965 10 11 February 1966.

DCS contact:

may 196i so present.

TEO.

RuFuS BROWN

2. George BROWN. Garrison le reportodly stying io

BROWN-NGOT, ING)

Implicate him in the "assassination plot". Has seen both a

CLOSE FRIEND+

FINANCIHL BACKIX

DDP and a DCS contact. Dotails are being ascertained and will

be reported.

TEXHO)

..B.N.

c. Leslie Nosman BRADLEY. GRIleoN has charged

an Edgar Eugene BRADLEY with boing one of the conspirators

but may have confused bira with Leslie Norman BRADLEY. /The

Tlatter was einployed as a co-pilot by a CIA-controlled air line

frozs 26 May 1965 until 12 Septeraber 1967. He had One DCS

meeting on 26 June 1953.

d. Alberto Fedorico FERNANDEZ Hechavarria.

Identiiied to Garrison ass Cuban leader asociated with Lawrence

Joseph LABORDE. |DDP contact fron Dacorber 1960 to present.

c. Lawrence Joseph LABORDE. Hie son has reported

on him abd his associates to Garrison's stall. (DDP contact

frOm February at March 196l to 20 April 1762

208

---

## Page 3

13-00000

1. Alfred I. MORAN. Has Sees questioned by

Garrison'a stall. (DDP contact from 27 Decezber T982}

to present. DCS contact (ran 21 Decembar 1962 to 5

present. Since 19 November 1964 contacts for the DDE

bave been handled by the DEs. 5

8. Victor Manuel FANEQUE y BATISIA. Has

been identified to Garrison as having boen in charge of a

CIA traintag cainp ia Loulslana. | DDP from 13 November

196% to 31 October 19651

à. Emilio SANTANA Galindo. Was Interrogated

by Garrison and staff fos ive days in February 1967. IDDP

contact from Octobes T9E2 to October 1953.:

3. The DCS contacts are the followiag:

a. Carlos Jose BRINGUIER. Has been interrogated

and polyaraphed by Garrison. DCS contact February and.(

(April 196%.

b. William Wayne DALTELL Has been questloned

25 Garrison and stall. Alleged he was allillated with ClA.

DCI contacts in November 1960 and ia January and February 1961.

Gerald Patrick HEMMING II. Was identified to

Garrison's stall as a pars-milltary instructor of Cubans and

later vialted Garrison's office. DCS contact from October 1950

to March 1961.

d. Jaci N. ROGERS. A Baton Rouge attorney in touch

with Garrison's stall. DCS contact from Septender 1959 to

the present!

•. Clay SHAW. Arrestod by Garrison on a charge of

conspiring to asssesinate President Kennedy. DCS tice from

December 1946 to May 1956.

•1. Cocil Maxwell SHILSTONE. Member of Truth and

Consequences, Inc. , wideh donates money to Garrison's office

Lifelong triend of two members of the DCS oilice In New Orle'

but official contact ended in 1956.

....

1031

SECT

---

## Page 4

13-00000

AMBAY

enri

§ SCHLUMBERGER Well Surveying Corporation.

Said by Garrison and othere to havo bean the original owner

of explosives removed from a bunker at CLA's Inatigation

10r ase ai the Bay of Pig*. Current DOS contacts with

varlous SCHILUMBERGER ofúcos.

A. JUla GarICH UNDERHILL JI. Dond.

from late 1943 to the sid 1950's.

4.L The persons falsely claiming Agcacy alfiliation, or

abort whor such clairas have been made by otier?. ara tie following"

a. Valentine ASHWORTH. Interviewed by Garrison's

staff. Now la jail, ASHWORTH has clained a link with CLA

and forInes assoclation with Oswala.

1. Guy BANISTER. Dead. Ramparts bas alloged

that ho was associated with CIA and with linutenen involved

in the assassination.

c.

Maurice Brooke GATLIN Sr. Dead.

Raraparts

has alleged that ho was aurociated with BANISIER and ClA.

d. David W. FERNIE. Dead. Garciaon has charged

that FERRIE was a member of the conspiracy for the abdassination

of President Kennedy and that he worked for CLA.

LorED Fugene MALL. Subpoensed by Carrison as

a material witness. Garriven chargas that le wo:ked lor CLA.

1. Lawrence Jobs HOWARDIi. As above.

# Jules Ricco KIMBLE. Offered information to

Carrion's stall. Chained sinliation with ClA.

FIa LOGAN. Sald by Gordo NOVEL suad

Raruparts to hare been a CIA advisor to the Eriondo of

Democratic Cuba in New Orleans. No pertinent Identifiable

Iniormation esdata.

---

## Page 5

13-00000

STATET

Richard Case NAGELl. Claims falacly to have

warnod the FBI beloro the assassination. Claims lalselý

to bo Agenty-nitillated. Derving a ten. yoar terr la El Paso.

Mentally and emotiorally unstable.

j. Donald P. NORTON. Flown to New Orleang at.

Garrison's expense and debrieled in a taped intervlew.

Claimed extensive Mes with CIA, Shaw, Ferrle, and Oswald.

Discharged frora the U.S. Al. Force lu% psychlatric reasons.

k. Gordon DuRse NOVEL. Garrioon sought to extradite

him from Ohio as a witness. Both NOVEL and Garrieon bave

faloely agserted that NOVEL worked for CLA.

1. Lee Harvey OSWALD, Garrison allogos thst he

was CLA.

1. Jack RUBY. As above.

1. Edward Stewart SUGGS. Claima to be an investigator

for Garsison.. Catas former ClA ties.

I. DETAILS

1.

This nemorandon provides lalarmation about two typea

of persons who are prosently or potentially lavolvad in District Attorney

Jaines C. Garrison's Investigation ol the assaspination of President

Kennedy and who are os were associatod with CIA. Information la aleo

Included about a third category . those who have never been aesociated

with CIA but about whom a ClA tie has been asparted, by therselves of

others.

2./ Groip 1 la the irat category consists ol present or former

DDP contacts. Group 2 consists of present or falmer DoS contacta.

Crono 3, as mas noted above, conslate el impostors and of others who

have had no associatios with the Agency bul who have baen alleged by

third partles to be ClA-affiliated.

3. aroup 1 (total or 8))

a. Francisco Antordo SARTES Clarea+ (201-289385).

600527

---

## Page 6

13-00000

1/28T

(1))Prlor references: Memorandum, subject:

Garrison Ivestigation of Kennedy Asaaatisalion:

Francisco Antonio BARTES Clarers (201-289885)4

20 November 1967.

(2) Involvement in Garsion'» Inrestigation!

None known to date. His former position as bead of

the Cuban Revaludonary Counchl (CRC) In New Orleans

and bia carlier te to LaWIenCe LABORDE and others

In respect to guerrilla tralning lor anti-Castro Cubana

has already, bowever, been drama to Garrison's attantian.

(3) |DDP and DES relationships:

(a),DDP. Although a POA for use la

IMATE was reguested on 29 December 1960 and

granted 30 January 1961, the request was cancelled

on 30 August 1951, and BARTES was not ased

durlag this interval. (Par JIAWAVE 0493,

4 Decembor 1958.J On 27 May 1965 SOD/AB/OPS/3

requested a POA to permit the use of BABIES 38 a

pllot in the Congo. The POA was granted ou

20 July 1965, and an OA on 9 Suptember 1965.

Tenting of Sabjoct's akill as a pilot revaaled, however

that he was not qualilled lor the intended assignment.

He was soturned to the U.S. es 1l February 1966

without having baen used operatonally.

(0) DCS.J

The first contact of DCS New

Orleans with BARTES occurred on 1 May 1961.

Between tuat date and 9 January 1967 a total of

13 meetinga took place. BARTES la the source ol

#is DCS reporte. Contact has not bets terminated.

b. Gorge BROWN.

(1) Pitor references: None.

(2) Involvement lo Garrison Invastigation: A

DCS Houston topart of 21 December 1967 states that

Gearge BROWN recalved a disturbiny telepbone call on

22. December 1967 from Hugh AYNESWORTH of NeWswee,

who said thas BIl "Gervage" (Comment:

Presamably

identicel with Willlars H. GURVICH) bad Indicated that

---

## Page 7

13-00000

Garrison may try to Implicate BROWN in the

"asdasainat10n plot". "The allegation lo that in some

unspecilled manser Brown was lavolved with the ClA

In its objective of 'covering ap' the 'consplracy' los

President Johnson. Aynesworth sald Gervage bau

documents, Inclading at leant one la Garrison'a ewa

handwriling, which presamably have boen extractod

frOm

Casrison's illes.

(3) DDP relationsbip: The above report saya

that BROWN has cooperated closely with ClA la funding

operations. Checks are under way.

c. Leslio Normas BRADLEY (201-727878).

(l) Prlor references: Memorandas No. l.

26 April 1967, Enclosure 5i Memorandura No. 2,

8 May 1967, Enclosure 4.

(2) lavolvernent la Garrison's investigation:

None knowa to date. During the week 21-23 December

1907 several U,S. newapapers renorted that on 20

December Garrison's oillce had accused one Edgar

Eugene BRADLEY of Nortà Hollywood, California, of

conipirlag to assassinate President Kennedy. On 27

December he was arraigned on a fugilive complaint and

released on his oun recognisance. Extradition la currently

moot. There ls Do ClA record of Edgar Eugens BRADLEY.

On or about 20 Deceinber 1967, however, the Wanhlagton

buranu of the Los Angeles Times made an inquiry of the

A/DCI regarding Leslle Norman BRADLEY. Tie Newsweck

Issue of 8 January 1968 speculated that Garrison might

havo confused Edgar Eugene with either of two otor mion,

one of whom in "... a semetime New Orlezas pilot

saed Bradley who was once jalled in Cuba for anti-Castro

activitien." Thia description fits Leslle Norman BRADLEY.

(3) DDP and DCS relatlonships:

(a) lAt bles request, Leslio Norman BRADLEY

was mot by the DCS offico la Missespolia for one

and a hall bours on 26 June 1963. There vas no

other DCS contact.

---

## Page 8

13-00000

RVORS

(6) /BRADLEY and tus companions

were arrested by Cubas G.? on 23 May 1960

on a charge of counterrevolutionary activity.

BRADLET collaborsted with the Cuban

authorides while I-aprimonod on the Isla ol Pines.

He was repatriated, with other Aucericans,

on 22 April 1963.

(e) | DIS-HB requested a Provisional

Covert Security Approval on 26 May 1966 La

order to use LeIlle Norman BRADLEY Laside

the continental U.S. as a co-pilot araployed by

Soutbern Als Transport Inc, dilami. On 31

OcRoDer 1966 DDS-HB requested cancellation,

and employhent was conaldered terminated.

It was later entablisbed, however, that Subject

remained employed antil Iz September 1967,

when be was dropped for unsatialactory performance.

Furtber laguiry is undet way.

d. Alberto Federico FERNANDEZ Hechavarsia (201-251355).!

(1) Prior references: Memorandum No. 5,

7 Asgust 1967, Enclosure 3; Memorandura No. 6.

7 September 1967, pago 5.

(2) Involvament in Garrison's Investigation:

FERNANDEZ was Idontilled to one di Garrison'a stall

as the head of & Cuban organization wbich aployed

Lawrence Jonaph LABORDE (see below) and otbers.

LABORDE's son Michael also said that his fatber worked

• LOT CIA.

(3) DOP relationship: FERNANDEZ had beon a

contact of the diaral Station from Decerabor 1960 to tha

pretest, althouga payent ceased on l Deceraber 1965.

e. Lawrence JOSepà LABORDE (201 -294683),

(1) Palor relerences: Memorandam No. 3,

1 June 1967, p. 7 anel Enclosure 2; Memorandum No. 4,

20 June 1967, pp. 1 and 3; Memorandum No. 5.

7 Augeat 1967, p. 8; Memorandam No. 6. Y September

1967: pp. 4 and 5.

---

## Page 9

13-00000

(2) Involveneat la Garrison'a livestigation:

On 11 May 1967 LABORDE telephoned the DCS office

la New Orlenna, sald that he was an ex ClA employee,

added that he feared Carrison would subpoena biza,

and roguested assistance or advice.

Michael W.

LABORDE, the aon of Lawrence, has told members ol

Garolson's stall that his fathor was associatod with

Alberto FERNANDEZ (see preceding sub-paragraph),

with Gerald Patrick HIMMING, and one "Roy" L percaps

LErOy COLLINS? la training Cubans as guerrilla

Agaters. Michael LABORDE bas also traplicated CLA

in tila training. On 27 Septeraber 1967 Lawrence I.

LABORDE again called the Des office In New Orleans.

In accordance with Headquarters' Instructions be was

told that there was hothing to discuss.

(3) DDP reladionship: LABORDE waS a DDP

contaet from February or March 1961 to 20 April 1962.

He served as acting captaln oi a vessel owned by

FERNANDEZ and usod by the Miami Station lo Cuban

operations.

1. Alised J. MORAN (201-376772)

(1) Pilor references: None.

(2) lavolvement la Garrison's investigation A

memorandan from DCS New Orleans, 15 November 1967,

reported that Hunter C. Leake of that office and Allied

J. MORAN are vErY good Irlend», that Leake attended a

party at MORAN's home Da 14 November 1967, and that al

that tina MORAN told Leake that he (MORAN) bad been .

In touch with a member of Garrison's stafl, Assistznt D.A.

James ALCOCK, Who questioned MORAN abuul 25

occasion when Cles BERTRAND and MORAN were in the

VIP room of Eastern Alrlinen at the New Orleans

International Alrpost. MORAN told Leake that in his

opinion Garrison has an "Iroaclad" case against Clay SHAW.

A DCS New Orleans report of 13 December 1967 adds that

MORAN told Leave on 11 December 1967 that ALCOCK

and shother reprosentative of Garilson's offlee had showa

him, sometire in 1967, what was alleged to be a ghotocopy

of the dally log from the VIP room at the alrport MORAN

S

---

## Page 10

13-00000

recognlzed bis own signature and that of Arthur Q.

DAVIS (a prominent New Orleans archltact). He said

that the name Clem BERTRAND was pointed out to bira

on the list and that Clay SHAWis DAme was not on the

11st. ALCOCK and his colleague said that a handwriting

expert had confirmed that the signature "Clem BERTRAND"

had bees written by SHAW. I le noted that the DCS

report of 15 November 1967 quotes MORAN as saylag that

SHAW wae in the VIP room on the occasion about wbich

ALCOCK questioned MORAN, whereas the 13 Decamber

1957 report quotes MORAN as saying thas he did not see

SHAW in tha room at that time.

(3)

DDP and DCS relatlonships:

(aLbDD. A check of MORAN's file showed

that he was cleared cn 15 Decembar 1962 lor use

by Miaral Station. He was approached on 27

December 1962 by Mrs. Carmel I. Dollar, actiag

on behalf of the Station and through the good offices

of DES New Orleans. Agreeing to bolp the Stallon

in cover matters, ha became president of

MORAN "alao permits use of his oma

I (Corament Miarsi Station cable 0425,

29 November 1967, does sot identfy MORAN's own

company, but DCS New Orleans has reported that

he was the first prealdent of Kalvar Corporation,

which manufactazes microliira.) MORAN has acted

as à spottor for the Miami Station and bas

rocommended several other businessmen who are

being used by tha Station. "Ho has also made

arallable several oll corsvanies in abdch he orna

interests forl

lof certain

operational vesser si lie Station. He is or has

been used by Headquarters for several activittes

directed by the Office of Logiatico.

Of Mlaml Station

personnel MORAN has mot MI. Ray E. Millard and

Mr. Charles C. C. Tresp (jormotly DDS/Oifice

of Logistics) as well as Mra. Dollar. In addidos to

Do know

me. and the Miami Siation oparatlona vessel Barb.

He also knows that Miami altorney MI.

---

## Page 11

13-00000

TRAT

SEE AT

pariicipates in Station actlultles.

The latest

alrect Miami Station contact of re cord la dated

19 November 1964; since that date, it appears,

DDP interests have been brokered by DCS New

Orleans. Miami Station records reflect that

MORAN In a friend of MessIa. Lawrence K. White,

Alan Marilold, and James A. Garrison, the lorrer

Director of Logistles, now retired.

(0) DCS. MORAN was first in official

contact with the DCS New Orleans office on

21 Deceraber 1962. Thers have been fifteea

official contacts since then. Ho la not the sourco

of any DCS reports, bat he has been mentionad la

one operational report frora the New Orleans

office. As of 29 November 1967 the latest offielal

contact had oecurred on 20 November 1967, when

MORAN signed some corporate papers for Ace

Marine Survey Iac.

&. Vietor Manuel PANIQUE y BATISTA (201-286332).

(1) Prior reierence:

Memorandue No. 6.

7 September 1967, pp. 5-5.

(2) Involvement in Garrison's investigation: In

# taped Interview of 21 January 1957 Carlos QUIROGA told

Garrison that PANIQUE was in charge of a Ch tralning

camp conducted for Cubana from Miami la Lacombo, La..

In August 1963.

(3) DDP Teletionablp: A POA LOT PANEQUE'S UNE

was granted the Miaml Station on 13 November 196%.

The Miami requent had stated that he was to be used "as an

inliltree and radio oporator", A report of 10 Asgust 1964

stated that he had bees loftlirated into Cuba In June 1964

on bebalf of the Christian Democrate Movement. Whether

he was used operationally in not stated in PANEQUE'" 201.

He was terminated effective 31 October 1965 for lack of

an Immediate operatlonal use.

B. Eralllo SANTANA Callodo (201-335356).

(1) Pitor relerencea: Memorandara No. 2,

8 May 1967, Enclodure 23: Memorandum No. 3, 1 June

1957. Rosloure Vol oranger Na. 4, 20 1u 1967.

---

## Page 12

13-00000

RVD.

STATE

pp.l and 3; Memorandura No. 6, 7 September 1967,

p. b.

(2) Involvement la Garrison's lavent gation:

SANTANA was questioned by Carriaon and stall ison

12 to 17 February 1967.

(3) DDP relatlanahlp: SANTANA was recrulted

by the Miaral Station la October 1962. Alter participating

In lay 1953 in a single Infliration • exiltration operalios,

he was terminated in October 1963.

4./Gr0up II (80k2) o1 8)

#. Carlos Jose BRINGUIER (201-239243).

(1) Polos references: Mersorandum No. 1, 26

April 1967, Enclosase No. 6, Memorandum No. 3,

1 Jano 1967, Da 5; Merorandure No, 4, 20 June 1967,

pp. d and 3.

(3) Inrolvement la Garrison's lavestigation:

BRINGUIER has been questioned and polygraphed by

Garrison. Among the questions asked of BRINGUIER

while he was being polygraphed was whether he had been

contacted by CIA. He sald that he had not.

(3) SOCS seladonnhig: DGS Now Orleans intervleted

BEINGUIER four times, at his raquest, on 1 and 2 February

1957 and on 5 and 6 ApTA 196% AB O1 13 October 1967

there had been no later contact.

b. Willlana Wayne DALZELL.

(1) PIlor references: Memorandura No. 4,

20 June 1967, DP. 2, 5, and 6i Memorandam No. 6.

7 September 1967, p. 8.

(2) Involvement la Garrison's inveatigation:

Gordon NOVEL bas stated that Garrison is interested

in DALZELL, Ramazarts of January 1968, p. 53, states,

"Another [of the incorporators of the Frienda of

---

## Page 13

13-00000

AVAT

Democrate Cuba / was Willian Wayne Dalzell.

who knew [David W.7 Ferrie and Isergiol

•Arcachs / Smith/ and was stil another la tha

[W. Guy/ Baniater coterte of Bleutha.

To = States

Ñem reportar be admitted be was CIA. " Willlar W.

Turner, the wilter of the cited Ramparts article and

of other atlacks by Rampasts on ClA and the F'Bi, stated

therein that be had worked closely with Garrison and

his atall for nine months. The San Franclaco Chronicie

of 27 December 1957 quoted Garrison as saying.

"Every word in Raraparts I accurately statad."

(3) DCS relatlonship: DALZELL had three

contacts with DCS New Orleans. They occurred oa

15 Hoverber 1960,, 20 Jamary 1961, and I February

1961. They concerned his proposala for a Rado Free Cuba.

c. Gerald Patrick HEMMING Jr. (301-3091251.

(1) Prior reierences: Memorandam No. 5.

7 August 1967; Memorandum, subject: Chart of Garrison

Case, 2 November 1967.

(2) Involvement la Garrison's Lavestigation:

Michaal W. LABORDE told members ol Carriaon'a atall

that blm father Lawrenco had workad for CIA with antio

Castro Cabana. He nared 'Jerry Patrick", mbo lo

HESING, and one "Roy", probably Leroy COLLINS,

an assoclated with Lawrence LABORDE. He added that

Jerry Pairiei, and Ray "duped Cubuns out of money" and

wore diminsed by CLA. On 8 July 1967 HELMING and

an associate, poRsibly COLLINS, went to Garrison'e

office. They sald that they were working for an unldentilled

magazine and masted to do a story on the Carrinou

Investigation. HEMNING has boen reported by the FBI

and in the press as a soldier of fortuse who ham alven

put niltary trainny to anti-Castro Cuban rougees.

A teletype of B September 1967 froin the DCS olfce in

Los Angeles states that HEMMING had claimed tbat &

45 matomalie confiscated by a sherill's office la Los Angales

had been issued to him by ClA.

12

---

## Page 14

13-00000

PERSET

(3) DCS relationship. HEMMING WaS in

contuct with the DCS office in Los Angeles between

October 1960 and March 1961. Ha la the source of

14 DOS reports on Cisba.

& Jack N. BOGERS.

(1) Potos relerence: Memorandum No. 4,

20 June 1967, pp. I and 3.

(2) Involverent la Garrison's investigation:

ROCERS han bean in touch with Garrison'e stall about

tue ausasstnation because of ROGERS' position as

committee counsel for the Jolat Legislative Cormittee

on Un Americas Activities of the State of Locialasa

He has said that he la conildent "that Carrison can prove

a close ansociation between Oswald and Jack Ruby and a

conspiracy isvolring Clay Shaw. "

DCS relatlonship: ROGERS bas Dean & BOuICe

0f DCS New Orlonna since Septeraber 1959 and la "the

source or contact" for twelve reposts irom that offico.

e. Clay SHAW.

(1) Polor referencea: Memorandum No. 1,

26 April 1967, Enclosure 21; Memorandara No. 4, 20 Juse

1967, pp. Pr d, and 5.

(2) Involvemant in Garrison's inventigations

SHAW was charged by Garrison in March 1967 of conspiring

to assassinate President Kennedy. His cans has not yet

come to trlal. Ramparts of January 1968 lintE SHAH tO CIA.

(3) DCS tolatlanahip: SHAY was a contact of the

DCS office is New Orleman fron December 1949 to May 1955.

During that perlod/Mr. Hunter Leske contacted him officially

tality traes. These contacta produced a total of elght reports.

1. Cecil Maxwell SHILSTONE,

(1) Pilor reference: Memorandum, subject:

Chart of Carrison Case, 2 November 1967, p.15.

---

## Page 15

13-00000

(2) lavolvement in Garrison's lavestigation:

SHILSTONE Is a mambor of Truth and Connequences

Inc.= # group of alfluent New Crleans bualzosamen

who have donated undiaclosed amounta of money to

Carlson's ollica for his use in paying investigative costa.

(3) DOS relationahip: SHILSTONE has been a

Hielung Irlend of Mensra. Lloyd A. Ray and Hunter

Leake of the DCS oilice In New Orleans. He la the source

of two vesy old 00-B reporta. The aíficial (but not the

personal) zelationahlo ceased in March 1855.

&. SCHLUMBERGER Hell Suxveying Cosporation.

(1) Prlos Inferences: Memorandun No. 2,

$ May 1967, Enclosure 24; Memorardun No. 4,

20 June 1967, pp. 1 and 1.

(2) Involvement la Carriaon's investigation:

Tho pros bos repeated statements by Gordon NOVEL.

Mading this fisr to ClA. NOVEL has claimed that

explosires which he and othere removed from a bunsor

at Houma, Lodisiana, at the inatigation of CIA, bore

the SCHLUMBIRGER stamp.

(3) DOS relationships Ia June 1955 was a contact

between Charlend. DOf, district manager of the

SCHLUMBERGER olice in New Orleans, and the New

Orleana DCS offica. Moreover, DOS has current

contacts with the main SCHLUMBERCER office In

Houston and with thres or four mbaldlaries elsewhere.

DCS dealings with the firm have baes circumapect.

h. John Garrett UNDERHILI JI.

(1)) Prios referencos Memorandum, subject:

Ramparte: John Garret UNDERFILL JI., Samuel George

CUMMINGS, And INTERARNICO, 19 July 196%.

(2) Involrement in Garrloon's lavestigallon:

Ramparte of June 1967 clalned that UNDERHILL, 105

dead, was "on intinate terme with a number af bigh-

ranking CIA officiale - he was one of the Agency'»

1724

---

## Page 16

13-00000

'unopeople' who performa spectal ssalzaments."

Ramparts of January 1968 adds, "Immodlately affer

the assassinstion, a distraught Underbll cold triende

that a senlosutonemona CIA clique wbich had been

profiteering in narcoties and gua-runalag was iraplicated

'ls the assassination. " The close Cartion-Turnar

mssoclation and Garrinais roueblag for the securacy

of the Ramparts necount nuggeet that Garrison may

make alcilar assertions when his case comes to trial.

(3) DES relationship: UNDERHILL was an

Iniruquent contact of the DOS New York offies Irow

Into 1949 so the mid 1950'". He was not eraployed by

Ebal office. The purpose of contact was to outala poaltive

Lorolga Latalligance,

5. [oroap Ill (total or 14)

a. Valentine ASHWORTH (201-337855%.

(1) Pilor relerancod: Nena.

(2) Involvement to Garrison'o tavestigation:

On 9 October 1962 ASHWORTH seat a lotter from

Loemville, Lousiasa, to the Cuban Ambassador in

Mexico. He allernd Inlormation about the "Cuban Lalder

Command" und the "People's Revolutionary Movement"

in erebange for help in defecting to Cuba. He said that

ClA did not bave the same Iaformatios Arrested on

16 May 1966 107 lavestigation al auto theit, ASHWORTH

told an FBi spocial agent that he hid participated in

soveral raida on cuss, that se we a plot and an enpert

In explosives, and that ClA was aware of hie activities

and could provide taformation about thera. Arrested

agals on 26 April 1967 los possension of a stolen

mutomobile, ASHWORTA Was sout to the jall in Llo

Charles, Loululara. A fellow lanato, one Rlchard

PHILLIPS, Wrote to FBI to say RAL ASHWORTH clalmed

to have barod an spartment in Oho with Lee Harvey

"Oswald, that Orwald and be belongod to a group of

New Orleans Guians who tilled President Reanedy and

"were supposed to 111l Castro at the same timo", that

---

## Page 17

13-00000

/ IND T

SERGET

"Oswald was a patsey (sic) and dida't fire a shof;

Rhat "Konsedy's assins (sic) were, as was Oswald,

trained by tho CIA", ete. On 13 October 1967 a deputy

sherlf adreed the FBI that as unidentiled ascistant

district attorney on Garrison's staff had come to lare

Charles one month earlier and had interviewed

ASHWORTH for an hour. According to PHILLIPS,

Garrison's ropresentatives have queationed ASHWORTH

about four times and have anked him ll he was & neraber

of CIA. The U.S. Marine Corpu advised on 1 January

1968 that ASHWORTH enlisted on 24 December 1952,

was honorably discharged on 18 March 1953, reenlisted

the next day, and then served until j December 1954,

when given a bad conduct discharge collowing a gonera

court-martial at which ln was found guilty of unlawil

absence znd lailure' to obey lawful orders.

(3) CIA relationship: None.

b. W. Guy BANISTER

(1) Pilos references: Memoranduss No. 1,

25 April 1967, Enclosure 3; Memorandum No. 2,

8 May 1967, Enclosure 3.

(2) Involvement in Garzisos'e investigation:

Ramparts of January 1968, p. 47, statea that a formes

Minutenan named Jerry Milton BROOKS had said that

BANISTER was the "head of the And Communim League

of the Caribbean. " Ramparte asserts that this "league"

was "assertedly an Intermediary between the CLA and

Caribbean lasurgency movementa. "

(3) CIA ralatonship: None. According to our

rocordo, Maurice Brodis GATLIN SI. (see below) was

legal counsel sot, as Ramparta raya, to the "Artl

Communist League of the Caribbean" but to the "Antl-

Communion Coramittee of the Americad", FBI reporting

clearly Indicates that GATLIN was the sole member of

•this national group. As FBI report of l4 February 1761 -

quoted BANISTER as saying that he had never been an

officor or member of the "group", GATLIN's clalms to

the contrary notwithetandiaz.

16) -

---

## Page 18

13-00000

C. Bausica Brodies GATLIN Sr. (201-93454).

(1) Prlos referencess Noot.

{2) Involvement in Garrison's Investigation:

Rumpart of Jamary 1968 quoten one Jerry Milton

BROOKS (sen preceding sub-paragrap)) as claiming

to have bees a "aort of protege" of GATLIN. BROOKS

claimed that about 1952 GATLIN, "In a scil-important

manner", sumarked that he had $100, 000 as ClA money

esImaried for a french righ-wing cligue that was

Bolag to attempt to asassinate General De Gaulle.

CATLI! ded la Panama is 1964, at tho age of sixty-one.

FAl reports on him cite sources who knew his well

as saying that he was insane and shoold have been committed.

Flo duped Eduardo A. Moralos, Consul General os the

Dorolaican Republic In New Orleans, out of relatively

large suma la the late 1950'%. Morales scems to have

considered him an agent representing the interest of

crajilo, although GATIN was Hot so rEgistered with

the Departnont of Justice, GATLIN used the allaser

Edward FAIRCHILD, James COCHRANE, RObert WATSON,

and Charles EVERETI. A typical oploodo occurred in

November -December 1957, whos GATLIN went to Eugene,

Gregos, because he had & theory that Jeses De Gallades

(commonly belloved to tave been kidnapped la New York

by Trajtllo henchmen) was biding out among Bargue

sheep-herders there. On 2 Decamber 1957 GATLIN

presented alsodell to an FBl special agent in Eagero and

sald that If he vas foud dead in Eugeno lt was marder,

not maicido".

13) •CIA relationahlo: Nono. An 0O report of

10 Docerbor 1953 states that on 13 October 1953 GAILIN

called on s 00 alico, sid that riots mero acheduled to

occur In Guatemala, and added that to thought some CLA

representatives there might be in danger.

"He suggested

that he be iurniahed the names of agonis who were posing

no membore of the Communit organization so that he

could prevent their being ansassinated in ertor."

He also muggasted that CIA give lira $75, 000 to fund tze

assassinatlon of 15 top Communist leaders la Latla America.

---

## Page 19

13-00000

$

d. David E. FERRIE.

(1) Polor rolerencen: Memorandar No. 5,

7 August 1967, p. 3; Memorandura No. 7, 13 September

1967, p. Za

(2) Involvoment in Garrison's investigation:

Ramparts of January 1968, pp. 50 and 52, suramarizes

and araplities Garrison's earlier charges that FERRIE.

was employed by ClA in and-Castro activity, Rampari

cites an unidentilled source as claiming that FERRIE

had confided that he "was working for the CIA rescuing

Cubans out af Castro prisons".

(3) CIA relationship: None.

e. LoJan (or Lawrence) Eugens HALL (201-258411)

(1) Prioz reforances: Memorandras No. 5.

7 August 1967, Enelonures 13, l4, and 23.

(2) Involvement in Garrian's lavestigation:

Press and radio accounts of 29 December 1967 through

I January 1968 stated that Garrison, on 30 Decamber 1967,

subpoenaed three men as aterial witsesses. They are

Thomas Edward BECKHAM of Omaba, Nebraska, Loras

Eugene HALL of Kernville, Callfornia; and Lawrence Joha

HOWARD JI. of Los Angeles. The subpoenas alleged that

HALL and HOWARD caecked into the Dallas Y. M.C.A.

in October 1953 and remaned in Dallas until tbe assaseination.

HALL, is said to have brought a weapon to Dallas. The

subpoenas lurther alleged thet HALL and HOWARD were

associated in Dallas with Jack Raby and with others, locluding

Oswald, believed to have been involved La the assassination.

The Carsison charges added that in New Orleans HALI

and HOWARD were ansociated with FERRIE and that In

Florida they bad taken part la ClA- ponsored guerrilla

training for raida or Cuba. HALL donled over mecting

---

## Page 20

13-00000

NV2AT

Onwald, Ruby, Ferrlo, "or anyone else involved

la the assassisation of anyone ever mentioned by

Garrison or anybody elso".

(3) CLA reladorablp: NonE. tHALL served

In the U.S. Army, 1947-1952, West Germany, and

was given an honorable discharge for medical reasons.

According to his lates, ho has suffered a mental

breakdows and la still subject lo severe deprenalon.

He ham been arrested sevaral times. He claims to ba

= soldier of fortune who once served Castro's causo,

but soine who know him think that ho 1e lying.

1. LawreNce John HOWARD JI.

(1) Prior references: None.

(2) Involvement la Garrivon's investigation:

See preceding sub-paragraps, According to the Houston

Chronicle of 31 December 1967 the subpoens allegea

that HOWARD was engaged in ClA-sponsored guerrilla

trainiag in Florida, Louislana, and Texas. Ramparts of

January 1968 repeats the old story that Mrs. Sylvia ODIO

was visited in Dallas in Late September 1963 Dy three male

strangers: Leopoldo, Angelo, and "Leon Oswald".

Ramparts adda that "just before the Warren Report went

to press,

the FBI located three men possibly Identical with

¡ra. Odo's provocative visltorn." They were HALL,

HOWARD, and one Willlam SEYMOUR, who had an allot.

Ramparte alleges that HALL lirat admitted but later dented

that the three had called on lárs. ODIO. HOWARD denied it.

(3) CLA relationship None.

¿. Jules Rieco KIMBLE.

(1)

Prior relerence;

Memorandum No. 6,

7 September 1967, p. 3.

(2) Involvement in Garrison's lavestigation:

-

Ramparts of January 1968 states that KIMBLE approached

reinbers of Garsioon's stall and said that on the day

19.

---

## Page 21

13-00000

FVB47

after David FERRIE died, he drove a top Ku Klux

Klan official, Jack HELM, to FERRIE's apartment.

"HELM came out with a satchel crammed with papere.

which he placed la a bani safe deposit bor." KIMBLE

clalmed that in 1962 he flew to Montreal with FERRIE

on Milnutemen business.. "Shortly afterward, he phonce

his wlín from Atlanta, saying be bad mot a CLA contact.

"They'll never get me back to New Orleans, 'he vowed."

Ho was arrested, howaver, la Tampa, Were Garrison's

men questloned him. He "said that he had once worked

special assignmonts for the CIA, and in verification

named bis Agency contacts and the bos number at tbe

Lafayette Street station they assigned bii. He averred

Be had recontacted the ClA alter Walter Sheridar bad

counseled him to say nothing to the DA and go to Canada."

As FBI report of 12 Januasy 1956 stated that men la the

oífice of the aberlis of Avoyellos Parish, Loulsiana, had

said that KIMBLE is a pathological liar who has lad

treguent problems with the police and who la prone to

violence. Deputy Sheriff Cbarlas KIMBLE, balf srother

of Jules, advised that kis brother lad mado certain false

statementa to draw attention to himnelf, la the hope of

getting 03z of jail.

(3) CIA relationablp: None. |On d August 1957

KIMBLE telephoned DCS New Orleans to day that Garrios

was trylag to connect hir with CLA, although he did not

know why, nod that Garrison had accused his of taldug

some papers from ferrie's apartruent.

A. FRu LOGAN.

(L) Prior references: None.

(2) Involrement in Garrison's lavestigation:

Ramparts of January 1968, p. 53, says,

"The Friends of

Dessocratic Cust was lounded January 9, 1961

•Goverment advisor to the Friends, says an Inforsiant

who was closely involved with the group, vers & CLA man

named Lojan and the FBI's Regis Kennedy . ... "

On 10 May 1967 tbe New Orleane office of the FBI, reporting

0...

---

## Page 22

13-00000

information, obtained from Gordon Duane NOVEL.

quoted his as saylag tha! Williana Wayns DALZELI

(nee above) had been ia souch with Rennedy and with

Ch employer inu LOGAN.

NOVEL attributed this

Information to DALELL: landlady.

(3) ClA relationship: Nono.

The Dos Nev

Orleans office reported on 20 Inse 1967 that there has

never been a LOGAN is the office and that the recordo

do sot rellect dealingn with anyone of that name.

Headguarters traces have not revealed a LOGAN lu

New Orlears.

1. Richard Case NACELL. (201-746537)

(1) Pstor seferences: Nons.

(2) lavolvement la Garrison's lavestigallos:

Ramparta of January 1953 stated that NAGELL "was a

highly decorated Infantry captaln in the Korean war who,

he claims, subsequently becamo a CIA agent. * he

had sent a registered letter to J. Edgar Hoover warning

his of the impending assastication, which to says was

then scheduled for the latter part of September... and

the letter had gont sranswerod.* According to Ramparts.

NAGEIL, clalmed that two groups called "Bravo Club" and

"Delta Club" joined forces to Mill President Kennody.

"Meanwhile ClA got wind of the plans and sent several agenta

into the lield to ascertain whether they were 'for real'.

NAGEL I says that he was one of the agents dlapatched

Nagell hays that be was lastructed to arrow" the patsy,

Rhat in kill Atra, alter the assassination."

(3) CLA relationablo: None. NAGELI Was one of

six crew members 1s: 3-25 which cranbed at full power

DI 28 Noverber 1959 near Friendahly Airport. Ho was.

tbe solo mrvlvor. The plase was not loand for 11 1/2

Hour!. He was unconscious and had sufferod severe bead

Injuries. On 16 November 1962 NAGELL wrote the FBI-

in New York to say that he wanted to expose the Departzen?

of Alcoballe Beverage Control ol Calliornia. On

15 Dacember 1962 he adviaed the FBI in Jacksonville,

21

---

## Page 23

13-00000

NSAT

SECOND

Floside, that he had been recrulted by the Soviets la

Wasbington. D. C. and had contacted CIA in Virginla

on Soviet orders. In January 1963 he was diagnosed

at the VA bospital In Day Plnel, Florida, as having

"chrone brain vyndrome associated with brala trauma

with behavioral reaction characterised by passive,

aggrassive, and paranold lesturen." On 20 September 1963

he was arrested for firing two rounds lato the celling of

= bank la El Paso, Texal.. He then attempted suicide.

On 16 April 1964 NAGELI sant to the FEl a lotzer in

which he faisoly claimed that ho had sent them an earlier

lotter, dated September 1963 and signed "Jack Kramer",

to warn them mbout the assassinatlor.

1. Dozzld P. NORTON.

(1) Prior references: Memoraniam No. 6,

7 Septarabor 1967, pp. 1 and 2, Memorandura No, 7,

13 September 196%, p. 31 Memorandum, sabject: Donald

P. (0T I.) NORTON, 11 August 1967.

(2) Involvement in Garrison's investigation: In

Vancouves, Canada, In an Intervlow pislinhed on 8 August

1967, NORTON claimed to be an ex-ClA employee tho

delivered $150,000 to FERRIE for transfor to Cuba and

who picked up from SHAT $50, 000 to be delivered to

Oawald in Monterrey, Mexico, On 15 July 1967 Charles

WARD of Garrison's stall accompanied NORTON to

Now Orleans for a Ipodinterview, Ramparts of January 1968

clalraed that NORTON was impressed into ClA's service is

1957 under threat of exposare as a homosetual, According

to thie article, NORTON uns told by CIA to take a long;

quiet vacation becaume of something that was happezing

Is New Orleán.

(3) GIA reladonablo: Nose. NORTON served an unit

a private and PFC in the U.5. Als Force from 11 October

1949 to 24 Jasuary 1951, when he was dischargad for

psychiatric reasons.

¿ Gordon Duzze NOVEL.

(1)

Prior solerences: Meraorandans No. 1.

26 April 1967, Esclosure 19; Memorandum No. 2.

---

## Page 24

13-00000

L..

8 May 1967, Enclonure 201 Meraurandura No. 4.

20 June 1967, pp. '6-10; Memorandum No. 6,

7 Saptember 1967, pp. 2-91 Memorandum No. I

13 Septembes 1967, p. 3. Also memorandum,

subject Gordon Duane Novel, 31 Blay 1967.

(2) Involvement in Garrison's Investigation:

Both NOVEL. and one of his lawyere have claimed that

be worked for CIA. Garrison has sought, until falely

recently, to extradite NOVEL from Colambus, Oblo,

but withoat nucceas. Carrimon has claimed, and

NOVEL, has agreed, that NOVEL, at the instigaton of

CLA, took past with others lo stealing explosives fiora

a bunker la Houna, Louisiana.

NOVEL ban written &

lotter walck Implies that ho was lavolved in CIA'a

operation Double- Chat.

Ramparts of January 1968

ropeata the principal lies about NOVEL's CIA des.

(3) ClA relatlonship: Nona:

1. Lice Harvey OSWALD.

(1) Prior references: Mamorandians No. 3,

1 June 1967, p. 1; Memorandum No. 7, 13 September

1967, p. 2.

(2) Involvament In Garstaon's lavestigatloni

Garrison has repeatedly charged that OSWALD was a

"patay" who did sot kill anyone and that OSWALD worked

105 CIA. Rasparts of Isnuary 1963 says that CLA

trained OSWALD at the Atsug, Naval Station in Japan,

where he was taught covert operationa azd Russien,

Il also alleges that ClA arrangod OSWALD'a deloction

to the Sovlet Union.

(3) ClA relatlonshlpi Mone.

I. Jach RUBY.

(1) PIlot reicredca»: Momorandum No. 3,

1 June 1967, p. 3; Memorandum No. 1, 13 September

1967, p. z.

23

---

## Page 25

13-00000

(2) Involvames! is Carrion's lavestigation:

Garsison has repeatedly stated that RUBY, lite OSWALD,

was employed by CIA. He clalms thai ClA Used RUBY

as a "bag mas" to smugale asros for Cuban asle groups.

(3) CIA relationbip: Nona.

th. Edward Stewart SUGGS, # JackS. MARTIN

(1) Prior references; Memorandam No. 4,

20. Juse 1967, pp. 2, 10, and 1l.

(2) Involvement in Garrison's investigation:

MARTIN, formerly employed by Guy Banister, now

terms Himself an livestigator for Garrison. (A DOS

No» Orleans roport of 28 September 1957 stated that

MARTIN telephoned a friend of Mi. Iloyd Ray at 0200

hours, on of shortly before that date, sald that he was

ons of Garrioon's lavestigators," and triod to pump the

fIlend abour Mr. Bay. (Other Inports have stated that

MARTIN tando to made such calls in the amall hours

when druak.) Accordlag to Ramparts, of January 1958,

MARTIN alleges that Ferrie once commanded a Clull

Air Patrol sguadron of which Cawald was a ineraber.

Further, Ferrie allegedly laught Oswald to aboot a tille

with a telescopie aight.

Ferle becamd Involved with

Oswald in the assasisation plot.

(3) CIA rolationship: NoRe. MARTIN, howevor,

has clalmed that ba worked los ClA. (An IBI report stated

that Edward Stewart SUGGS "was fingerprinted in 1952 1a

Houstor, Textu. He was wanted at that time en a charge

of murder... • The Identilication Diviston recorde do

not ahow the diaposition of the charge." On 23 Dacember

1956 he was admitted to the paychlatric ward, Charity

Hospital, New Orlezza, Louisiana, as a mental patieat.

---

## Page 26

13-00000

STORET

Originatedby: DC/CI/R&A:D. E. PRATTidoL 31 January 1967

Dintribution:

Orig: DCA

1 • DDP

1 - Exceutive Comptroller

1 - General Coursel

1 - A/DCI

Office al Security

Directos, Domestle Contact Service

C/WH/COG

0/CL

•REA chrono

• De illes

---

