ro4-10714-10009

OES

cn nisTonitg

son. Bh May 1961

. MEMORANDUM FOR: Czble Seczetariat

SUBJECT: Distribution + ZRRIFLE Traffic

f
+ - . i i
“4, Two copies of all tratfic bearing the ZRPIFLE indicator i- |
are to be delivered in a sealed envelope directly to the Chief, £1/Divi« : i
ation D, 1562 L Building. No other distribution is to be made without
‘the spacitic approval in each instance of the Chief, FI/D.

2. Tho above has been personally approved by the Depaty
Divector (rlans).

WILLIAM K, HARVEY
Chief, Fl/Livisicn D

Distribution: ae : ae :
Orig & 1 - Addresace :

1- FI/D Registry

L~ Subject File

i - Chrono



Penenge eet =
cailpaneanll

19 February 1962

MEMORANDUM FOR: ; William.K. Harvey
SUBJECT: : Authorization of ZRRIFLE Agent Activities

1. For the purpose of ZRRIFLE activities, you are here-
by authorized to retain the services of Principal Agent QJ¥IN
and such other principal agents and sub-agents as may be
required. This authorization will continue to be in force
through 31 December 1962, subject to renewal at that tire.

sf & Dott 2. As established by contract with hin, QUWIN's salary
: will be $7,200 per annum. Accounting for the expenses of
. QJWIN and other agents involved in this activity will be in
< the form of receipts for funds received by them, and these
receipts will be retained in the ZRRIFLE covert operational
Zile. Because pf the sensitive nature of this activity, :
accounting for funds will be by general category and by your
certification, In addition to the salary established for
“ QJWIN, you are authorized the expenditure of $7,500 through
31 Decenber 1962. I£ further funds are necessary, they will

be provided.

-°: 3, This memorandum is to be considered in lieu of pro-
ject and constitutes authorization for all travel, per diem,
perational and other expenses. — : A

CLS GL re as requested that this activity be handled
strictly on an EYES ONLY basis. : :

see Richard Helms -_
i _’ Deputy Director (Plans)
u/ ;

ih |

ino

sFosteiemcoseemos in nner:

reeifesrindetacent nd



Sesttsa ae eS
Seesitive pocfcct' ez ions to

stor o7'n. ‘
SAAS OF Socrates



(Whee

OATE Bog

OrschiPT iON .
NUE ACCOUNTS H9ea7

CRPLANATICN OF ENTRY.

To record eccounting and refund of unexpended advanco | for ‘ont highly
sitive JHATE payxent, Funds wore provided as follows; 32,000.00 charged te bduaras aavanes

eectint 1 Oatahe 21980, Voichor # 8821 £25,000,.00 chare
Original of statement for accounting attacticd to Vouche
stecoipt for fundsYW is attached herewith.

: v~ GONFLOENTIAL FUNDS 1° "RQ VOUCHER . os

, :
voueee UE nay 712 =,
6 1961 ] _ g LSS
&

filled taj

Pas

corte :
24-8? aug ‘ca goat bur . aca ae

keocen

acer. ao] + op eueees

Chane

ed to expanse 3 Octoker 1960 Voucher # 887+
7 867. Copy of Accounting Statenient and °

bate *

oan

a : — Ie 4 ATE . Focal FOR PAYMENT CR CREDIT -
[26 Juno 61 ye, | 26 June stm of no a Juno ma

eeneann acct moe | vate re

ce meng



ws 7 SECRET
on, AVAta Pitted Int
; 1 3

2 HOMWICATION OF TRANSFER a ot ;
: : 22.8 9
oF pone ee Af 2 Sento ASlO

* “FUNDS'GR ACCOUNTS

a

i
'Eqennaco [Cl] encures te Se Dolinva _! 2600. 2000, |

* UNOIVIOUAL OR PROICT (OL TIFICATION JMARG AUTHORITY REF, a

at ott? = TRAVEL ORDIANO, . a

‘ TeoAatO BY STATION VOUCHLR NO, BAITED ALLOTMENT NO, . A

"J write off oF cxrenst Gx] aovance  BUt, (Co) eavaoun 8 orien . [J] tRANsrzR OF FUNDS j
(L] recstetn unona ave [Eq meivnouay, ce .

TU AUTACNER . ([] provear

Orcrationel advance to Sucffiold Edvards, Ssourkty Division,

__ __WSOACE BELOW FOR HEAQQUARTERS USE ONLY, _
'Y¥ FUNDS ARC AVAILADLE ROVE, : DATE Te

“ i CERES HELENE BA  .s pe - 1 @al.19 bo

ict At ~

m R 'O FOR PAYMENT OR CALDIT
“WAY ATURE OF AUTHORIZING OTA Senne pay ME! Ate
oA FONATURT OF AUT vA YqNATCRT OF ELNTATYPTA GIA : pp . -
SLNCRIMTION~ALL OTHER ACCOUNTS 19-32 al) See ey? “se ro 4
Se 3033 HOH Jasrane pate Anount
‘ ; coon a 7
Nmadntpriom-aovanct ACCOUNTS 13:89 Far ;
: cae . oh FE , onseer prow eneae.|
: . | ie” fraoseet Ko. ire Stag ‘
H Ti
H fic
‘ po domepeneb epg
- ithe
. or cbnetanne!
> tt + t
Pyequg
a t H i
, . the
‘ oy tes
: TTT et
pe meres
. ern rT
hoa U 1

PRGA HY

mt ae I

. * IVIDUS ECITIONS,

, endquert: CPB ynos4o : ee
SOUR ACCOUNT IAS LIEN “TITS Head EMOUN ” SULA TQUIVALENT A .
Ft



bei eome

* SECRET

MEMORANDUM FOR: .Chiel, WH/oi

FROM: Director of Security
SuBIECT: . ,WH/SECURITY PROJECT

1, This memorexcs
. . expended on @ seasitive p:
yah, Divisioa and Director of Security.

@ inal accounting of monies
ito the DD/P, Chie: /WE

20 Sept, 1980 Received irom WELD: $ 2,CC0.CO - Lief sehed*
4Oct. 1960 Received from WH D! $25,050.00 —¥-S87 pernres
: : $27,000.co E
sf

DS3ue.
25 Sept, 1960 To Cutout $ 6,900.c0
through c
6 Feb, 1961 :
U Feb, 1961. To Principal Ageat $10,000.00
31 Jan, 1961 Commo Expenses $ 1,043.08
through a pueresuerT ot

14 Feb, 1961. - ; 's : ‘ l
26 Sept. 1960 Misceilancous Expenses 993, 87 esd basta}
through i a $LB, 936, 95 aa
12 Feb, 196 - suai
Cash on Hand “ - $ 8,063.05 :

. 2%, The sum of eight thcusaad sixty three doliars and five ata
cents ($3,053, 05). is 1eG, I iurther ceriify that H
all expe: for securiiy reasons | i
Security, sees

vege: dete seks ob



WUMSUABEMEAT OR CAVNENT 16 CLAIMED OK MATCBIALE, scavices,
AOITCT OCRICNATED,

Fer necessary purpeses ‘of the Projects a :

purposes of the Project, that further accountings and recetpts wilh nat be
available or oF sequi ped to write off this expenditures

,

Me . :

GEATIFY THAT Tats VOUCHER AnD ANY ATTACAMENTS ARE CCRACET
vio T MURCERCY NATEREE PAYMENT OF CREDIT HAS AOT BECK RECCIVED, AND | BUALL NOT OF ALIMDUNBED PRO’ BLY OTHER GOURCES

. VL CCRTIFY FUNOS ANT AVATLANLE
1 BEEOATION ACFEREACE NO.[CHANGE ALLOTMENT NG.

ARR OVED
[Bieravure . Viet OPricer

960! oe Aas Zen

CERTIFIED YOR PAYMEA eaywent dh CREDIT
re a CeaTuFYING OFF IC fe

“yak USE (7 NANCE iWISiON

a

Data 1960

PAYWENT RECEIVED

Cot, 60
SPACE NELow FON Ex ;

REVIEWED oY

VOUCHER NO. 7et8

seat Ts

: no eoreminen! aca
YOUCHEA HO, (Finwnce wae vndy) \

OF OFLA CHPCHDITUMLS ITEMIZEO OE LOT price ARE PHOPCALY CHANGE AULE TO THE ALLOTMENT Of

I certify that the above amount has been expended for necessary and confidential *

v THE EKPENDITURES WERE INGUARED OW OFFICIAL DUSINESS OF A CONFIDENTIAL, RXTRAOROINARY, on

SEGHAT YL

gh Ester] Ape i
FIN THE AMOUNT OF $ ag 000%
pare x0 FOMAT UE or ecu hlent .

po y i

"D9, a,
ee ls

71600
AMOUNT

oan nr a

%
is
t.
}

&

pit Sorat oven

een F hat

wth ae aa

