# 104-10074-10036

## Page 1

104-10074-10036

TO:

SECRET

REQUEST FOR APPROVAL OR INVESTIGATIVE ACTION:

y I copy of thie form)

PLEASE COMPLETE EACH SECTION AND APPROPRIATE BLANK

CI/OPERATIONAL APPROVAL AND SUPPORT DIVISION

A Remanry 1965

FROM:

Olivie A 1221 m

A SATOS

CHIEF S

MINVESTIGATION AND SUPPORT DIVISION OFFICE OF SECURITY

CHIEF: PERSONNEL SECURITY DIVISION: OFFICE OF SECURITY:

SUBJECTS

16h6

PROJECT.

CRYPTONYM. PSEUDONYM TAKA OR ALIASES

CO/OA. FILE NO:

NI 209 PILE NO.

201-767100

SO FILE, NO:

I TYPE ACTION REQUESTED

PROVISIONAL

OPER

TIONAL APPROVAL

PROP

SECURITY APPROVAL

COVERT,

COVERT: SECURITY

•SPECIAL INQUIRY (SO field Inventi

CONTRACT: TYPE A'

CONTRACT, TYPE: D

SPECIFIC AREA OF USE

chi engo, 1111nols ate

•FULLYDETAILS OF

RA 10 requested for contact, assesset and poseible pso 09 en 24 88005

in Zeadgunstore 8/U progran.

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Repreduce

INVESTIGATION AND COVER

COVERAMENT INTEREST MAY DE SHORN DURINO INVESTICATIONI

YES:

SNOWN DURING INVESTIGATION?

ARE

OF.:

U:S:

GOVERNMENT INT

EREST IN HIM!

ts

SUBJECT

¡AWARE

INTEREST ON MIM.

.. INDICATE ANY LIMITATIONS ON COVERAGE IN THE

ESTIGATION OF SUBJECT:

Mons

SUGGE

PRETENT• TO DE USEDTIN CONDUCTING PERSONAL INVESTIGATION OF SUBJECT.

NO

S. PRO AND GREEN LIST:

STATUS

¡CHED.

16 4

DEROGATORY:

DIVISION:

TRACES

• IELD

TRACE

MON-DEROGATORY

10 $

0-90

1501.0

DEROGATORY ATTACHEO

DEROGATORY. ATTACHED

ACHED

DRANCH CHIEF

876k6

SECRET

10589

10)

FIFT

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SEBRAT

PRO PART 3

HAME&

DFOBS

CITIZENE

RESIDENCBS

OCCUPATLOUS

PATEERI

HaIRO ECHEVARRIA Valdula

3 Beptember 1931, delibantea, Canguey, Cuba

ankan

2TOL 1. Bedate, Gdongo, Dlimle

Presantly esployad by Chloego Druanlt Anthousty

Forzarly aployed an a payroll clost at a selinery

La Calbalgus, Caba, Bubjeet left Gaba 6 July 1960.

Evello BCREVARFIA Mertin (201-767120)

SECRET

201-767109

Honora

SUMEN

---

## Page 3

14-00000

SECRET

• SUBJECT (TYPE DAME IN. ROMAN LETTERS - SURNANE IN UPPER CASE)

0 11rno

2. ALIASES. VARIANT SPELLING, CTC NUMBERS, ETC.

201-767.090

CE/DA

3: DATE AND PLACE OF BIRTH:

3: Reptenher 1931, Jatibonter, Camegney, Cuba

WE CITIZENSHIP

Ouben

PRESENT ACTIVITY AND LOCATION

ployed by Chiego Tranait Authority

RKS: 2701 M. Bedste, Caicago, linole

60 OCCUPATIONAL SPECIALTIES, EDUCATION

REQUEST FOR GREEN LIST

NAME CHECK N° 158449

DATE B Tabenary 1965

TO

CHIEF, FI/D

ORIGINATING OFEICER

NAME

01 vla 40 11221

OFFICE DESIGNATOR

IE/30/10S

ROOM, BÚILDING

EXTENSION

25l6

13% TYPE OF REQUEST. (CHECK ONE)

FURST TIME SUBMITTED

ADDITIONAL DATA

RECHECK FOR CURRENT

INTEREST IN SUBJECT (CHECK ONE)

ESPIONAGE OR CE ACTIVITY

OPERATIONAL CLEARANCE

• OTHER

LOCATION

DATES

7. PAST ACTIVITIES INCLUDING MILITARY SERVICE S

ACTIVITY:

Salon to Subjectle departure be was

explored

as o seyrold clerk in a rafinory In

Calbelgean, Cube.

ha left Cuba D July 1960)

B. OTHER SIGNIFICANT DATA (POLITICS, RELIGION ADD EXTRA SHEETS: WHEN NEEDED

8. DESCRIPTION

(HEIGHT)

A WEIGHT

10 SPOUSE (IF WIFE, GIVE MAIDEN NAME)

(EYES)

(HAIR)

(RACE)

91 831

(OTHER)

11 OTHER MEMBERS OF IMMEDIATE FAMILY AND ASSOCIATES

Krelto RCHRVARRIA Martin (father)

12%

SUMFORNATHION REQUIRED DEFINE SPECIFICALLY

ALL PERTINENT ILFORMATION

INSTRUCTIONS:

car 500

10591

INSERT CARBON: FILL OUT FORMS COMPLETELY:

SEND BOTH SHEETS TO FU/D:

SEE CS1:U0-7

SECRET

201- 767409

MICROFICHE

DESTROY AFTER USE

---

## Page 4

14-00000

SECRET

TO:

011vLa A

16 Feb. 1965

DATE:

FROM:

C.

SEE DOSSIER ON SUBJECT IN FA/D GIOGRAPHIC MILES:

A MEMORANDUM US ATTACHED HERETO.

MITH THE LIMITED IDENTIFICATION PROVIDED IN THE REQUEST, PO/D IS UNABLE TO

DETERMINE WHETHER THERE IS INFORMATION ABOUT THE SUBJECT OR NOT.

AND HASINO 4

PARE INFORMATION ON SUBJECT IF INFORMATION ABOUT THE

SUBJECT APPEARS AT A LATER DATE IT WILL BE REPORTEDATO YOU AS UT BECOMES

AVAILABLE.

THE SUBJECT OF THIS REQUEST IS APPARENTLY THE SUBJECT.OF THE FOLLOWING.

NOTE TO THE ORIGINATING OFFICE

WHEN THE SUBJECT IS NO LONGER IMPORTANT TO YOUR OFFICE, THIS SHEETS WITH THE FOLLOWING CANCELLATION

NOTICE COMPLETED. SHOULD BE SENT TO EJ/D:

REVIEW YOUR FILE OF THESE SHEETS FREQUENTLY, AND SENDATO FID THE SHEETS FOR PERSONS THAT ARE NO

LONGER OF SUFFICIENT INTEREST TO DEMAND A CONTINUING NAME CHECK, PLEASE DO NOT TIE UP FU/D'S

FACILITIES WITH CONTIRUING SEARCHES FOR INFORMATION THAT IS NOT REQUIRED.

TO:

FU/D

DATE:

SHAME

OFFICE DESIGMATOR

ROOM, BUILDING

EXTENSION

CANCEL THE STOP CARD FOR THIS REQUEST

SECRET

MICROFICHE

10598

MASTER

---

## Page 5

14-00000

SECRET

9 February 1965

SUBJECTS:

HOmeTO ECHEVARRIA Valdvia

1201-767409

Evel Lo ECHEVARIA MartIn

201-767410

Adolfo ARRATE Cumerma

201- 767405

Jorge ARRATE Cumeras

201-767403

Alberto

E. PERRIN

201-767408

Ricardo DUStYaS

201-767$01

Thore are noblays Station czacco on bubiests

per UNGA 19509, dated 25 Japassy 1965.

Gorile Pushon

for

• John b.

Fort

Doputy Calos, MaLaRy

Distribution:

Or1867 -

Addressee

VA/SA/103

и -

Each 201 File

105%3

201-767408

MICRORACE DEPRODHETISNS

---

## Page 6

14-00000

MEMDRANDUM FOR: Chief

WE/SA/TOs - 0. A. Willars

SECRET

PROVISIONAL OPERATIONAL APPROVAL

NUMBER

201 - 767409

SUBJECT

ECHEVARRIA Valdule, Homero

REFERENCE: Your Memorandum, Dated

8 February 1965

Cru

A Provisional Operational Approval ls sranted for the use of this Subject

as set forth below.

A Provisional Operational Approval Issued by CL Staff grants the same

authority, on a temporary basis, for the use of an individual as the authority

granted in an Operetional Approval unless othervise specified by CI/OA. / It 1s

based, however, only on preliminary file checks and investigation and 1s sub-

Ject to a further final revlew when all Investigation is completed.

To procese the Operational Approval, full information (completed PRQ

Parts I and II must be submitted as soon as possible and not later then sta

(6) months from this date.

An Operational Approval will follow when all

Investigation to completed and upon the receipt of satisfactory PRQ Parts I

and TI. Cancellation must be requested if use of Subject by Interested Di-

vistons ceases:

FORM 125

0- 84

Dare Bun

APPROVAL

CI/OPERATIONAL APPROVAL, AND SUPPORT DIVISION

SEGREL

DATI

25 robruary 1965

201-767404 '

105 qu

---

## Page 7

14-00000

SECRET

CANCELLATION TO DIVISION

DATE 36. Anguet 196520 023

MEMORANDUN FOR: /C/ER/CA

ATTENTION:

018v16 . t1ll

CH - 301-767909

The File on

CALVANILA Valdule, Lasero

- 15 cancelled

and closed In CI/A for the following reason:

Fallure to submit PRQ-It as required under CST Nos

20-5 or to

Indicate any further interest in obtaining approval for the operati

use of Subject.

-301-067408

nor to any future use of Subject

Mt will be necessery to furnish

new approval request (Form #m72) to cia

V0/ Edward P. Brow

CHIEF, CI/OPERATIONAL, APPROVAL, AND SUPPORT DIVISION

REPRODUCTIONS

APTER USE

1595

MICROFICHE

DESTROY

FORM

1828s 690*

201-76>409

---

## Page 8

14-00000

FORM 0 • 323 A RIV.

CHI- CB

PORE AppRo

ВОСКАРНІС

BUDONY DURIAU NO

##.

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

INFORMATION

Immigration and Naturalization Service

AUGo 23,

1961 /KH

VANILY NAMED

FIRST MAMELI

(MIDDLE NAMES

ECHEV MALA Valasvie, Monoro Sanuel

DIRTHDATE (MO-DAI

NATION

ARIEN

Drmne/3/31

cuba

1127236 480

ALL OTHER NANRE USED

CITY AND COST ME TRA

BOCIAL SECUHITY NO.

Jatibonico, Cuba

"391 44 5930

DATE; CITY AND COUNTRY OP BIRTH IF KHOWN): CITY AND COUNTRY OF RESIDENCE

THER

ECHEVARRIA,

Evelto

3/21/05 Colon,

Cuba

Illinois

VALDIVIA, Ofelia

21/1/01 Arroyo Elanco, Cuba

Chicago,

Illinole

BEDERATISERATE BAITE

CITY & COUNTAY CY DIATE

DATE OF HAI

GIVE WAIDEN BANKS

Santa Clara;

AGE "LACH OP MARRIAOZ

Sanoti-Spiriti

CASTELLANO

Teresita dep 1.-3/49/36

Cụba 4/12/56

OMARA SHOUBKS COP HOME, 40

MAIDEN NAMED.

DATE A PL

CE OF MARRIAGE

DATH AND

ERMINATION OF

Serio

PPLICANT'S RESIDENCE LAST FIVE YEARS. LIST PRESENT ADDRESS FIRST. JC

STREET AND NUMDER LEGIT

121:

PROVINCE OR STATED

OR COUNTRY

2701 16 Techte

chicagos

1110

GH1CE845.

FROM." MONTH

Septe

Acco

19

2500

2932

TOr: MONTH

NEVEAN

PRESeNT TINE.

Septe

APPLICANT'S EMPLOYMENT LAST FIVE YEARS. IF NONE, SO STATE' LIST PRESCHT CHPLOYENT FIRST.

Vor Fose

3020-200

Gis

1.222122

-4602-12

Omongo arenate interty-vers

595220

Dio Drives

MONTHS

07

Polan

3962

MEANT PEN

• PRESCH TONE

Voca

Zapa del Wedtoo Cubma

601665176-

HID VERY TO BURRITICE COUNTION WITH APPLICATION MOR

FI NATURALIZATION I AGJUSTMENT OF GTATUS DO OTHER LICITY

COUNTRY

156

CE 24 AUG 196/10

8/23/67

Prepared byINS

nh

FINALTILA, ERVENE

POR RELOWINGLT AD SVIELFULLT SALOETIC

ON: CONCIALNO A MATERIAL PAST

Pera hour call I INS loach. -

Лення перонт.

Мису же сим сле чеснт

(Sept 67 not

come no concerning Subjects you are referred to the U.S. Secret Service Reserenee

Co-2-34,030, Springfiela, Ill. dated t Dec.1963, Synopsiss This report concema vehlole

REPSODUCTIONS

ATTEN USE

HE

ROY

MICROFICI

DEST

of suspect Homer S. Echevarade.

16596

---

