# 104-10175-10022

## Page 1

104-10175-10022.

:..

-....

*.:;

DENTO

Background

Do Not!

Reproduce

3 April 1961

SUSTECT

1o The followay curriculu vIEre on MIllIE SprAgUE EARNES

appears in "ito" a lito' lE 120 Bast" - 1959:

has paddle opErate

DPOB:

18 Aughat 1919, law York CIty

Son of

Albere McClellen end Julla SpIngue BARiES

MarT ted

Mosy test on 22 septenber 1958

Chilèrea : Christies Flastas

A. MClellen SAkiS II

Bondesca: 171 de Brattle, Sto, Cambridge, 38, Mans.

Office

1553 YaaS. Ave Cenbridge 38, Mass.

BellElon: Episcosailma (Ya38. Dept. Christian

Mduestios, 32-55)

Harvar + LAY - 144141, 45147: LLP: 43 (47)

Tele

• A3 - 1910; LuB Harvard 1943; Docteur en

Drolt, volv. Census, 1953.

Research Ansociate la Cooparative Lew - Dair Kichigan

194S-30

Secretary, Internazionel Lagal studlas, harvard - 1950-55

Assistant Dean - Lasturd - 1955

Dircetor horld far Serder, Harvard International Progra

on Taxation 195%.

Director, Duckingha School, Canbrlago.

SAIVE 38 AlI CANCE tO CaptaIn - USA1Z - 1991-45

Alr Medal with Claetar (Aray)

Distinguishad "lylag Cross

Meeber Inter Anarican Bar Assoclation (council)

merican Assoelation for Couparative Study of In(Treasurer)

In Juno 1550 a Soninar on International md Comparative Lew

was ergiatred through the efforts of nyllas tuchNo, Protessor

of

Law at Tale, MarGs of haruurd, De. Mael BISBI, Cubas Arbussador

and delegate to th United Kations (deccased) end

SIROBtO DITICO,

Romer Cubra Abassidor to the U.S. and head of the Cubas Bar maocle-

Elon st that dise, loraclo GODOY, Argentin liw professor st l l'lala

Vriversity In Argentina, a studant de Isle until Juno 1961, preparad

tha llat of delegatos nod the tortes to be diacussed.

206-2÷494!

---

## Page 2

1

baile ln Babana, senbers ol lhe Seminar sere fatroduced to

Juns COBB; GODOY travelled, to Hial on tha plans with CAB sen she

cona to lew Tori (and subsarrently anhington) at the repucet ol

FaTTy HarisdOrE, MiES II LitODeI, EAVES coutaeted COES 10 Hos

Tort alter returning ira inablagiod. lu these secosions le attesped

to elfelt irforation concalag her possible connactions tlet

"Irlends" - the lepliestion seing sose Intelligence organization.

He Dentiod thEt an unnati Anerican aid waIned him Dot lo sec tex

Euch of Cos in Ouba inueues as sae vas "secretly comected vita

the D.S, Governcent".

It 1s pot Isconceivable that Cosed sell y

have cenveyed thin lepressica ind that stilis vas only curlous.

Bowever, on substevent occasions, he has exprossed eurprise that

Eha has bot bess cobtictedo le dropa nunes - Dons of taich IllE s

bells with craB.

# BABieS has nou zaptoeched COla to vort on one a hls cereral

The IsI Institute «E Marard

The INtiN ABETICE ELaNCh CE thE U.N.

The Sconcale Comissioe of Latin Merica with

heaoquarters in Sactlago, Calle

5.

According to COLM, BARTES uho will be sortig in confaretion

WIth PREEBISCH of the Di,

"ass CORS to balp coordiarie in Latia

ADETICE.

"Ho sos espocially. intercared in Ey (CCa3"s) beina able to

continicate with beful renders of leit-ure grotpa", "Se feels that

thie (the masco msulting fro hi altapts to rewrite the tar 1su

•1 Mexico) was Impired by the extree ripht mog - sad that it

indispenalble that sosebody Inoived in the conterence preparezio

Do competible to the left-ries stompa", so will recairo cora de tale

later after CO3J has had a chance to find out more about Blaks

projects.

taile there le no ectual "derogatory" in the Desger lito su

Sabject, COBS®a notes and BiZES oun reports for 0O/Contacts (coples

attachad) sey to son defToe Ladiento leftlat sy-pathiea.

03

Chief, -Marti

Attacineuta 4

Distribation:

Desa le l a Addresses, d/atte. l

2-414/4/C1

K2/7/C1/Sean Fier8sa/Bxx.-2655

---

