# 104-10506-10021

## Page 1

1104-0506-70021

...*

otas

SECRET

November 1976

SUBJECT: Byron CAMERON (No 201)

U.S. citizen

1. Owner of vessel Cayman Hope.

2. a. UFGA 15233 dated 15 April 1964: (Filed with AMCANOE Op)

Report on a Byron CAMERON who said he represented an

unidentified group of persons who had made contact with two Cuban

gangsters who were willing to kill Fidel CASTRO.

CAMERON reportedly

was associated with a Mr. S.W. TYLER (no identifiable traces) of

Caribbean Producer, Inc., Miami Springs, Fla., and Herbert F. JENNE

(no traces) with the firm F.A. Johnson, Inc., Fort Lauderdale, Fla.

b. UFGA 15954 dated 11 May 1964: (Filed with AMCANOE op)

CAMERON mentioned contact with unidentified group

willing to assassinate selected Cuban leaders: Fidel CASTRO, Raul

CASTRO and Che GUEVARA. CAMERON made fairly clear that the Mafia

was involved.

c. HJKA-161 dated 1 March 1963 - 103-8-1

Dispatch from Kingston to Hqs. forwarding a report from

that the imbassy had received a report from the Treasury Department

which indicated heightened interest in the activities of Mr. Byron R.

CAMERON.

d. WAVE 4993 (IN 26174}, dated 19 Nov 64 19-6-104-4

CAMERON was sub-source for shipping information provided

to Agency by AMWAX-1.

Said that cargo vessel "SS New Providence" owned

y Norbert Thompson of the Kel Farm Supply Company, was known to loa

erchandise in Miami. Fla., which was transshipped to Cub:

Ima

---

## Page 2

13-00000

- 2 -

e. DBA 77673 (FB) dated 15 July 64 (Filed 19-9-9)

Plan of Cuban exile leaders to assassinate selected

Cuban Government leaders. Cuban exile approached on 2 Mar 64 by owner

of whip which sailed under British flag.

Had contacts with underworld

"Ere-in partner who was former police officer from St. Louis with

to elements of "Cosa Nostra." Cost was $100,000.00 to kill

Fidel CASTRO; $20,000.00 each for Raul CASTRO and "Che" GUEVARA. Persons

involved were Byron CAMERON, owner of M.V. "'Cayman Hope," Teofilo BABUN

Francos, co-owner of Antillean Marine Shipping Corp. and two BABUN

employees: Oscar FERNANDEZ Veigo and Eliseo GOMEL Fernandez, Jose

"'Pepin" BOSCH, and Julio LOBO Olavarria. Eduardo GARCIA of Garcia

Lines, NYCity, also in contact with LOBO and BABUN.

LAD/JFK Task Force

---

## Page 3

13-00000

DIST ATCHNI

Chef of 3ut1on, Sanaton

Pinned Lal of Fuses law PRoport on My cayman liop

214:

to vold del y

Ten orew and owner ta

TOT WA

rded

Interant and timel1nese

RUABBE/ on 28 Februaty: 1963 fter At

receiving ite

28

030

to co who

helphtened incorest in the acuffition or

the

attached, reporti

OLIVER RE BYNAM

Oin Plym

Attachme

int:

report

Distribution:

- Hge (w/att)

CS CUPY

na March 196241 arch 1963

EAS FILE MUNE

103-6-1

5/кс

---

## Page 4

13-00080

noi con

ho pro

tha

обломті о покрисли

MA CONTALIAN

ano one poter troia Model

h 106

CAM EROU A

day and bour dod che

sabieral

---

## Page 5

13-00000

Kontio manot corenras

IN StArin Dan (Oom O K

Annes to Mentego Ray.

---

## Page 6

13-00000

NOV: 19 16312.0

in poss

P INTEL TYPI

20-1

• AND OUTRA NVIN

WAX-I IN REPORT OTD IS NOY 64,

suesounce is uas scitizen

ERON, OWNER OF VESSEL CAMAALMORE. PLS PROTECT. MINIPER

13110

ADDITIONAL

¡ELD COMMENTS BASED AMOT EE-1835 AND BARR 1173.

RIDE

FICO 1822212)

REPORT CLASS SECRET NO FORCION DISSEM CONTROLLED DISSEM

•COUNTRY, CURAMAITED KINCOOM/UNITED STATES

SUBUS TRANSSHIPMENT OF CARDO FOR CUBA

¿ DON PRIOR TO 18 NOVEMBER 1964

ADABA UNITED STATES; MIAMI (16 NOVEMBER 1964)

urg beat

19 N0U64

SOURCES A CUBAN EXILE WITH EXCELLENT CONTACTS IN THE ANTILLEAN MARINE.

19-6. 1044)

3mc

---

## Page 7

13-000

122:9.08 AN 15

NO

PAGE JE IN 26174

SHIPETING, CORPORATION. THE INFORMATION IS FROM THE OWNER OF AlVEssEl

ENGAGED IN CARIBBEAN SHIPPING:

DE82?-

DATE DISTRIRUTIO

"SECRET

---

## Page 8

13-00

• MACA

DATE ACO

M26174

но мот на

AS OF 1O MOVEMBER 1964, CREWMEN OF A CARGO VESSEL OPERATINO

EN THE VIMMI AREA SAID THAT THE CARGO VESSEL "SS NO PROVOENCE) OMNED

BY NORECRI TOMPSON OF THC KEL FARM SUPPLY COMPANI

MERCHANDISE IN MIAMI, FLORIDA, WHICH WAS TRANSSHIPPED TO CUBA, THE

VESSEL DECLARED AN UNSPECIFIED PORT ON GRAND CAYMAN, A BRITISH POSSESSION

SOUTH OF CUBA, AS HER POINT OF DESTINATION, UPON ARRIVAL AT THE

PORT, HER CARGO WAS UNLOADED ONTO THREE CARRIERS, THEN SHE SAILED TO

A FOREST THE END OF

TRE ISLAND ANE RELOADED THE MERCHANDISE WHiCH WAS

THEN SHIPPED TO PORTS IN ORIENTE PROVINCE, CUBA.

2.

THE CREWMEN DESCRIBED ONE SHIPMENT CONSISTING OF 3,8050 AUTOMO

contatne

in tons

14/080 don 900 and 7m the

SECRET

ARMY/ACH

Mary All

RADEr MSA NIC NO UNA OCI ORE OCA ORE 00

19 1369 123

N COPY.

#I COPY L

---

## Page 9

13-00000

SECRET

SATA

OLE ATTAICE NICH A CARSO FOR THE MOVIDE CETIMES

ARNO CAMAN. IT DA RON THAT TARS AAC NOT DOM TO MTO

NOR ILSE ON THE MUND

SO AIRLO CONTATE ASCERONIO TO LLOYONE GUCCO SOLENCE, TE

35 MY PROVIDENCE" MAN NCEN CROSA DIE MUTINE NOLOTIN OF MANSOILA

ETO, NASSAU, BINGE ISO

THE VESACE AS MAULACE

NICK BLAND ALBPINA CORPORATION ANDE AS ACRIORCE 190-

MORGEN

COLLO NOT SC POSITINELY IDENTIFICO.

PIGLO DISSON CINCIO, CINCLANT, COMMESITOR, MIAMI ROPE

ORKSTATE, BORDEA PATROL, CUSTOMS, COAST QUARO, TOLE CALIO DENT

16

seal transpat cago to cabo

ENO OF MESSAGE

marine

SECRET

---

