# 104-10161-10429

## Page 1

104-10161-10429

ORIG :

HAbALdO: cm

UNIT ,

WH/C/MO/FI-CI

EXT :

7147

DATE :

21 APRIL 65

MESSAGE FORM

• INDEX

DA NO INDEX

USECRET

O FILE IN CS FILE NO. 19-6-102/3

ROUTING

5

TaN 65

TO , MEXICO CITY IMWAVE

FROM:

DIRECTOR

CONF, WH/C 8

SIC CEN

INTO FLE, UR, DOP, CUN DOS Z, F/INTO, CT/OPS, CI/SA, DO C,

00lH 3.

TO

MEXI

INFO, WAVE

CITE DIR

03328

TYPIC AMMUG

REF: A.:

WAVE-0554 (IN 42298)*

WAT:-0771 (IN 46158)**

ASSUME AMMUG-1 FAMILY APPLIED FOR ODYOKE VISAS CIRCA

15 APRIL. PLS ADVISE EXACT DATE AND TYPE VISAS, REQUESTED.

WHILE A-I FAMILY WAITING FOR VISAS SUGGEST THOROUGH

DEBRIEFING OF A=1 WIFE RE HER ACTIVITIES AND ALL CONTACTS SINCE

A-1 DEFECTION YEAR AGO ESPECIALLY FUSE IS CONTACTS, WHETHER

IS TRIED LEVY ANY REQUIREMENTS AND HER VIEWS ON WHY SHE

WAS ALLOWED LEAVE, #

3.

IF WAVE CONCURS RECOMMEND

Joseph 1;

Piccalo

HANDLE AS

HE CURRENTLY AT MEXI AND KNOWS A-1 AND CASE

4. PLS TELL A-1 ZRMETAL FRIENDS SAFELY, BARNEY, JOSE, DAN

HAPPY HE REUNITED WITH FAMILY.

END OF MESSAGE

WH COMMENT: *In view imminent arrival Mexico AMMUG-1 family

pls expedite entry US.

**A-I family arrived Mexico 14 April without

incident.

-CONTINUED-

OFFICERS

21-23

GROUP I

Encluded frow

SECRET

declasstlicatian

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

at 'tis sons in tie

is to aster it

AUTHENTICA

Copy No.

---

## Page 2

ORIG :

UNIT

EXT

DATE:

TO

FROM.

CONF:

D INDEX

• NO INDEX

F: 0O FILE IN ES FILE NO.

MESSAGE FORM

SECRET

I?f.

2

3

ROUTING

5

6

8

DIRECTOR

INFO

TO

INFO:

CITE DIR

03328

PAGE TWO

WH/C/SP

WH/1

OS/AAS

WH/SS/SEC

(by phone)

WIENCKOWSKI (by phone)

•03

6}

C/ WHD

J,OHN L.

DCWHID /C

KART

COORDINATING

OFF

GROUP !

[ABING OFFICER

cludod from automatic

SECRET

downgrading and

doclassification

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

AUTNENTICATING

OFFICER

Copy No.

---

