# 104-10188-10414

## Page 1

104-10188-10414

DISPATCH

CLASSICATIN.

SECRET

Chief, KURIOT

Attn:

Photographic Branch

Chief, Wis Divicion

Chief of Station, Mexico City

0) Operational Monthly Report -- 1-3L December 1963

MC POOR REQUIMLD REFESPEPACES

Action: None. For your information.

xx.

"ROCISSING ACTION

ДВАДИДО АСО ГНОСНИЯ

NO INDEXING REGUILD

ONLY QUALIANO DESE

CAM JUDGE INDEXING

Presented below is a reporting of the operational and support activities

of Gregory D. PARMUTH for the above mentioned period.

1. General Summary of Activitie.

Activity for the month of December consisted of the following:

Installation of the SEQUENCE camera at the LIERODE barehouse; Assiutance

was given to C/MKCHARITY on an audio operation against an LCHARVEST

target; A locked door containing audio equipment was opened by PARMUTH

at an LP monitoring the LCHARVEST apartment; Station production totaled

2,325 for the month; One agent was trained in SW; and Photographic basehouses

covering Soviet and Satellite Embassies produced below average production

because of the Christmas season.

2. TDY

On 16 December 1963 Peter T. SWINEHART, POB, arrived at Mexico

City to install a SEQUENCE camera at the LIERODE basehouse. See para 5. g.

of thia report for details.

On 17 December 1963 an SWB representative arrived at Mexico City

(continued)

- Enl:

1. Training Report (KASNICKA)

2. Sequence Camera reports (3)

3. SWB Report

Distribution:

VL - KURIOT, w/encis

1 - WH, w/o encls

DROSS REFERENCE TO

no catte to trick

A8 COPY

DISPATCH SYMBE ANO NUMBER

• HMMA-22726

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

50-6-18

DATE

16 January 1964

MOS INE NURSEER

50-6-18

---

## Page 2

1d-0n0d

34 330

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

SECRET

: 1IMALA-22726

for the purpore of training PARMUTH in the use of SW syrtem 9%.

3. Trainins:

See training report forwarded as Enclosure l on LevieF. KASNICKA.

4. Operatione.

None.

5. Station Support.

#. On the morning o! ! December 1963, PARMUTH assleted RESCIGNO

a installing audio microphones under the flooring of an LCHARVEST occupie

partment. (See HMMA-22608, 1l Dee 63, para 5. d.) Lines leading from th

audio installation to the LP were strung and secured below the flooring which had

ample semi-crawling space between the target area and the LP apartment.

RESCIGNO and PARMUTH entered thin crawling space by removing a small

section of flooring located inside the LP apartment. There is also a trap door

leading into the crawl space at the front entrance hall of the building although

the curious would be discouraged to onter this area because of stagnant water

six to ten inches deep on the floors at all times, cob webs, bugg, etco, etc...

Three audio microphones were installed on this operation.

b. During the period 2-14 December 1963, PARMUTH again handled

LIFIRES 4/5 while Marvin A. CABOT was on annual leave.

c. On 6 December 1963 PARMUTH forwarded to KURIOT/WAVE

Headquartera two orders of envelopes (six month supply per each request)

and one request for stampe.

The envelopes were handcarried by Timothy A.

CAPRIOTT W WAVE Headquarters, avoiding a week's delay if the envelopes

were sent through the pouch from Mexico City. The stamps were handcarried

by another TDYer to the States for mailing to Washington.

d. On 6 December 1963 PARMUTH was requested to re-enter the

LP. covering the LCHARVEST apartment as reported in para 5.a, of this report.

The purpose of this viait was to unlock a closed door which atured the LP equip-

ment which monitora LCHARVEST activitice in that apartment, Although the

basehouse keeper had a key which worked well for several days previously. the

lock would not open for the agent on the afternoon of 6 December. PARMUTH

entered the apartment at 0130 hours on 7 December and unlocked the door. It

was found that the throw bolt located inside the lock was broken. For security

purposes, two other locke were removed from other doors located in the same

room to check il these locks were in the same bad condition, In each case,

when the key was inserted into the lock and turned excessively, the throw bolt

snapped. A new lock of the same type manufacture was installed on the coset

door by the barehouse keeper on 7 December 1963.

e.

On the night of 7 December 1963, PARMUIH was requeated by

the COS to install an extension phone at the COS residence. Alter a short

training period given by RESCIGNO at the MKCHARITY base, PARMUTH was

able to service

this request satislactorily.

This extension was one which

replaced one removed (for study) by KUSODA officials who inspected Mexico,

f. On 10 December 1963 PARMUTH photographed $23 frames, using

the Recordak to fulfill a monthly Staff D requirement for the Chief of Station.

On the morning of 17 December 1963, SWINEMARI, LIFEUD/22

and PARMUTI! met at the LIERODE basehouse to install the 15mm SEQUENCE

camera and the VLS? trigger device. SWINEHART instructed both L-22 and

PARMUTH very thoroughly on the installation and maintenance of the SEQUENCE

-THIS INTEN

154 OR

PAGE NO

+486,5920

SECRET

8X/0900801900

z.

---

## Page 3

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

SECRET

HMNIA-22I0

camera.

The complete system was then dismantled by SWINEHART to 8A1 L-2

could

re-install the system from the beginning. This sad done by li and set

«ith SWINEMART's datisfaction. Although the Conmulato door was ilured to lhe

public for a period of six days for unknown reasond de of the nigh: of li December

1961, resta were made using the SEQUENCE camera photographing people walking

by the Consulate door. The camera worked well and produced quud printable

negatives. On the morning of 18 December 1963, La, contacted PARMUTH and

explained tat the Consulate door was now open to the public and receiving

visitore as of 1010 that day. PARMUTH and SWINEHART joined L22 shortly

later at the LIERODE basehouse and found that the camera syatem vas working

well and photographing people entering and leaving this larget area. SWINEHART

then processed this film at the Station lab and nade sample prints of the day's

take to be prosented to the COS and C/PBRUMEN for their approval. Both were

very pleased with the photographic results using this type of camera equipment.

at the LIERODE baschouse. As of this reporting, the SEQUENCE camera is

using approximately. 100 feet of Plus X film between 6900 and 1100 hours (office

hours-for the Consülate). L-23 uses the present dark room area io photograph

traffic entering and leaving the front gate of the Embassy and is on duty from

0800 to 1800 hours daily, six daya a week. In order for L-22 to process the film

from both of these cameras and make printe daily, it will be necessary to install

another darkroom at the basehouse. L-22 will need a Morse Tank for processing

film, a drying rack, and a small PAKO dryer for finishing prints in order to

satisfy PBRUMEN requirements at the Station, Forwarded as enclosure 2 is

the inatallation, and statistical and training report concerning this operation.

h. On the night of 17 December 1963, PARMUTH and SWINEHART

went to the Mexico City Airport to meet a visiting SWY TDYer and assisted him

through customs. Before the plane arrived, PARMUTH and SWINEHART took

the opportunity to inspect the

camera located in

On the evening of 31 December 1963, PARMUTH was requested by

Michael C. CHOADEN, C/PBRUMEN Operations Officer, to make an emergency

meeting with LIFEUD/22. The purpose of this meeting was to pick up photographs

and loge for 30 and 31 December in connection with a priority PBRUMEN operatiou.

6. Station Support (SW Activity).

a. On 6 December 1963, a visiting IDYer from Tegucigalpa requested

PARMUTH to train SWLUCK/f'in secret writing. Training was carried out on

7 December 1963 at a local hotel in the city. SW systeme 37 and 58 were used in

chis operation as per KURIOT instruction in DIR 87130. Forwarded as enclosure

3 is the SW report which is to be sent to SWB.

b. On 20 Decembar 1963, PARMUTH was trained in the use of SW

system 99 by a visiting KURIOT technician.

7. Miscellaneous Statistice.

a. Number of operational targets surveys completed during month: 0.

b. Number of TDY trips completed during the month: 0.

c. Photographic equipment issued for operational use: SEQUENCE

camera.

.d. Photographic equipment repaired: O.

e. Number of people trained in photographic rechniques/ equipment: 2.

1O*M

3s 530

SECRET

18863199189

3.

---

## Page 4

14-00000

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

a1.1390

SECRET

ped la poete desir tons

HIMMA-22726

J. Production Figures on Jobs Processed.

a. Black and white: 43 jobs.

(1) Total prints: 2,325.

(2). 35mm microfilm: 300 feet.

(3) 16mm film: negative - 400 feet; positive - 400 feet.

(1) 35mm cassetts: 35.

(5) 120 size roll film: 2.

(6) Sheet film (all types): 0.

(7) Miscellaneous: 0..

b. Color: 0 jobe:

c. KURIOT Station Support:

(1) Secret writing:

issued 1 - 37 carbon to SWLUCK/1.

(2) Flaps and seals: 0.

(3) Chemical harassment: 0.

steal cience l

- 50 - 6-18

---

