# 104-10519-10059

## Page 1

104-10519-10059

SEGA ET

1- 22-43

& Dernier 1275

MEMORA%DUM FOR:

lord w of DOD Pelal Conshige Plin Cho Pan Arri:

borll Airays, 810

Subsidturics and Individur

to cortesy clas na have examinee Clue Dir 18les on 1415

distalon's rodar demolelpes medd che lun Americon leald Airwily: (1:41).

Our soard begon diel alles opened in 194%,

conclated with those

open ind activo no of this dado aná Includes:

a. 12 Deu organication files:

b. 1 DCD organization file on corporato cubaldlary:

7 lCD

individual flles on

will the carpora los os ses sulaldlurson;

persons nitilinted

d. . 3 DCD case files.

2. A 1iut (by file number) of the fileo exalned is attached.

3..

We searched for indleations in the file: of seintionships

or activities on the part of DCD, other CIA or Imolligenee Consunity"

elements ind

the PAl which fall under "Calegory II1" no you expladard

1t. Ne underatond "Catogo:, 1Il" to Include all relationships

or activitien arong the partios involved other than the normal

purault of such missions as:

a. The collection of foredon Intelligence Information

and specifically

the bricking

ard debriufing of Individuals

affilined wich the corporation;

DCH roquests for and the provision of operational

support to CIA or olher Intelligonce Connuily elements

8e.8-, discussions of cover and contacts vith corporate

personnel for operrtional purposes), excopt shat we

understand that ary involverent of ClA and the PAA

in covert action is Included in Category Ill;

S: IC) requesta for the proviaion of asslatance in

resettling defectors aud other aliens;

.....

p0ptz0d

SECRET

E 2 INPORT CL EY 010060

a insin

---

## Page 2

cd-idono

27

SURJICT:

1...1

80? DCle Kelatimiirі

airriol Aichugn, lea Suand: i:?!

the fin 1.i0:1.0

i'..frn and lecdigiiienlo

ts arqueals for and tlii

¡rouiclon of "orler

Beçeuii" lroto, permisidon for lio ilnien of ClA dinalgits

• le tcrietee producilon facilleico dor purpores 61

presfes-leono eratnlid or faullia 'coelan; absírtario.

an clieclina anniysleal jedgooner; tli partlripalá

an de19uerre 6f corporale poraomal in ClA Aralniss

€802550:1, etc.):

brracled for your information are ducuzeres vilch to bellero

full wnlos Calozosy Ill.

Mer C2e 1o foloild l*Jacts:

::.d/

02-1(5)-327/33176 (Case 67251) dared 23 Jene

ssbgcet: Regoca dl Mleaus Contactes of loe ilarsoy

Osdand:

Vie come aeroon this reporl and hove irearlad

a copy for your revird since the mabject antles 15 of

considcrible intoraut.

b.

HYOR 5851 diied 18 March 196%.

T1:11: dUCUSERE

eugyests ponstble oppertunity for CA in Donínican

Regisblic and involvos a l'AA caployec.

Ycno to Karmneriines from F. J. Applewhite

dated 20 Apr:1 196%.

Subject of the neno le "bincuesion

of bertrand Russel Par Celras Trlnl Situatson Xich

Offictals of Pan A.

¿eno selreted for revien stcause

of possible CA Implirations.

ret ugeet ana tecore Suec, aon an or ue ta

Aingucat for Inforsation

Materinl sugaosts Alr Force

Paysera eo "Lan aypiecdatdon ror nis past sooyeration.

paysert ku

Meno for the llocord datud 29 January 1971,

subject; sapor Snre na previons ntcia.

Pan InerIcan

World Airuayg.

io open cormrrrial aft roulon to the leople's

Reputlie of China (V'RÖ). Príoo 10 a erip to she PEC

-2-

SSCRZT

---

## Page 3

BECR

advice regarding, his cotton: rich the or.

e vi: seeklog our guldance which may dave helpiro

Heao 8peaa1na Case 50135 datod 31 .015 19/0.

subject:

DCD should mie dee Influener with us busineer to

benef le Moburo.

NYOR 0885 dated 13 June 1969 (Cane 50242).

Soverd Asper dule trespore dey der preme

foulet supersonic transport

in lin. Since Ma vas couldering the purchar o

impersonie aircralt, the preseneation of his mulertal

any have been of commercial value to chen.

Dancing. Albinito

THOMAS AFFINITO

Sondor stall Officer

New York Fluld Office, DCD

MARY r.

SCHROUT

Operations Support. Branch, OSG/UCD

Attachments: A/S

SECRET

---

## Page 4

CORDSIMAL

ATIACHINT

Alla volecon

The Sollont; Individual source filen sore sevlewed:

I Parober

1370-5

1716069

2570 30.

-222 10°

110001-

In addstion, the following All'e 1a O56/0OB were exitired:

14347

14967

17479

18385

20580

23/03

Post DCD caves lavolving I'M were revlowed. These cane rushers arc:

• 507.12

57968

55135

$7330

PAN FrieRiCaN Mirmi

11/36811

CONFICAITIAL

---

