# 104-10169-10277

## Page 1

104-10169-10277

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

April 1902

MEYOF. ANDIM FOR HECORD DiD. -

SUBJICT: General Polnts Covered In De-Briefing Subjoct.

Subjoct was asked If he lnew anyone by the name of

CARRILLO. Subject was noticably cautlous, his reaction changod

quite sharply and then after some cunsiteration he said jes he

Iner a doctor by that name, CARHILLO, uho was the judgo in a

placo onlled Guynia de MIranda. Subject a tatod this Individunl

was a judgo for several years untll he was taken prisoner and

1a now on the Isle of Pines.

(De-Eriefer's Comment: This was

In order to find out if he could come up with.a name which

follows now,

Justo CArRILLO, 1a ono which

will reo-

ognize as having perhapa some significance to this Individual.

After some mulling around he said he had heard of his own, I

did not suggest the name of Justo, he sugrested 1t bimself, he

mulled it around and he said he had heard of this Individual au

being a member of an organization, he had never seen him, he

does not know and he thinka that he 1a in the United States.

The specifio significance of this will be examined later.

We

oan use this as a control question in his examination.)

2.

Subject was asked 1f he new Aguedo LUGO J Rodriguez.

Subject claims no knowledge of this person at allo

(De-Briefer'a

Comment:

This latter Individual le now In one of our other safo

houses and olaims to know this man very well and has seen him

many times..

It is not possible for this Individual to know

Troy Subjeat to know) Aguedo by any war name, because the man did

not use one until after he had gone into the Argentine Embassy.

Bubject was also asked If he knew the name which was dreamed up

by mysell:

Subjoot did not tumble, but tried to reason out who

1t was.

He apparently was not trying to deceive me on this in-

dividual.

Subjeot stated he had seen Raul Castro and Fidel Castro

on one occasion in the Prosedential Palace on the 13th of Maroh

1960.

Sublect olaims never to have spolion to them or treated with

them directly.

---

