rod-t0447-(0004 . VerouING WIEDDAGE

SIGNAL GeviTER USE ONLY z
sn em ew ements

OMF QO o is} o ia) it) it}

cLassimicanion

“SECRET
meenacenanptine moses DarE-rute nove :
STAFF *  Ydapez “DIRECTOR Teter”
: conr:.S4} INFO :.' aa A biker blo MIS yd fb ter 4 emits saa of)
nA OD ncrumro PER os
a oo 7 O ore #
TO: INFO neXICO CITY. 9 eel
RYBAT WNINTEL RNVIEW Y :

_ SURROUNDING ASSASSINATIONS oF > PRESIDENT KENNEDY AND DR. MARTIN

LUTHER xING HAS “ToL. STATE THAT THEY “INTEND TO PURSUE LEADS IN
PORTUGALS UK AND. MEXICO RELATING To JAMES EARL RAY. CURRENTLY ~
SERVING TIME FOR KING MURDER. THEY BASING THIS INTEREST ON
INFORMATION THAT "RAY WAS IN Lisson “BRIEFLY. IN MAY 1968, SHORTLY
BEFORE HIS _APPREHENSTON IN LONDON IN JUNE 1968: 4 .

2. MR. G. ROBERT BLAKEY, CHIEF COUNSEL AND STAFF DIRECTOR
OF COMMITTEE SAYS SELECT conmtTtee TOLD STATE THAT HE WANTS TO
ESTABLISH “CORDIAL RELATIONSHIP" WITH APPROPRIATE PORTUGUESE
NATIONAL POLICE AND HOPES TO ENLIST THEIR ASSISTANCE INCLUDING
ACCESS TO THEIR FILES. AND IN LOCATING AND INTERVIEWING POTENTIAL
WITNESSES ©

3+ DEPARTMENT HAS SOLICITED EMBASSY SUGGESTIONS AS TO HOU

BLAKEY SHOULD PROCEED. ¥ 7
DATE:
ORIG: ©
UNIT:
EXT:
R2AARS
RELEASING OFFICER COORDINATING OFMCERS AUTHENNCATING OFFICER
ctassinearion REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED 2 IMPDET

’ cL BY:


i)

OUTGOING MESSAGE

ao al ial
Pca erent A : :
OMF oO Oo oD 0 Oo Oo o 3 ;
(DATE-TiME GROUP . ore : “MESSAGE REFERENCE MUMEER
. DIRECTOR ;
INFO: FILE : aie? 4 “mors.” . ‘DISSEM BY
238] D werumro PER

“ae WISH To CALL ee TO "ADDRESSEE" ATTENTION’ ay" "EVewr"

“STATIONS ARE SOLICITED FOR. ahaa OR ASSISTANCE. /RTACTION Is

COOPERATING FULLY WITH ‘BLAKEY AND COMMITTEE INCLUDING ALLOWING
THEN “ACCESS TO DIRECTORATE RECORDS. AFTER SUITABLE SANITEZATION
FOR SOURCES’ AND METHODS. HOWEVER. BELIEVE COMMITTEE'S EFFORTS

TO INTERVIEW POLICE AND WITNESSES AND RESULTING USEFUL INFORMATION

OBTAINED. IF ANY. Is LARGELY OVERT. FUNCTION WHICH CAN BEST BE.
HANDLED BY LEGATTS OR OTHERS WHO WOULD ALSO BE IN A POSITION TO

BE PUBLICLY QUOTED OR IDENTIFIED IF NECESSARY. ¥
\

SOLICITED BUT REQUESTED TO Avory INVOLVING STATION} OFFICERS IN

5. STATIONS) EXPECTED TO. PROVIDE ‘EMBASSY BEST ADVICE IF.

NEGOTIATIONS EVEN IN THEIR COVER - CAPACITIES.- IF CIRCUMSTANCES
SucH THAT “THIS UNAVOIDABLE. PLEASE ADVISE H@S BY CABLE SO THAT
THE MATTER CAN BE APPROPRIATELY HANDLED WITH BLAKEY AND

DEPARTMENT said

ORIG: peu ages ATSOVERNES COORD: OLC {CUMMINS}. DC/LA {LAUDERF. © ——

AWK vss James :
crLA soe ps [fa C/EUR/IB ‘AUTH:

SA/D0/0 | REL: DC/EUR {ESTES}..f

Dae: 14 NOVEMBER 197, ea, AG;
a

coriG: -MASOVERN
unit: = O/SA/DO/ OLc—

ext: «= US4R fhe
i : Deveursec /} fi Devt j
ia yi ie beg E cy.
DC/EUR _- x¢veursta of crane? SA/D0/0

RELEASING OFFICER CoonomaTING OFmcens ~ AUTHENTICATING OMMICER
cuassincanon REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE 1S PROHIBITED E 2 IMPDET

CL BY:
