# 104-10534-10101

## Page 1

1104-0534-10701

: *

DB M03O #6585

3 January 1964

MEMORAIDUM FOR: Ch10I, WE/2

ATTENTIONS

SUBJECCT:

RA TRENCE!

Technical Analysis of Letter and Envelope -

DB CASE $4361

Wa/2 Mamo dated 13 December 1963

I. In response to referenced request, an original typewritten

letter and envelope addressed to the American Sabasay, Stockholm,

vere exanined in order to deternine the origin of the letter and the

nationality of the writer.

2.

The following conclusions vere drawn concerning the letter

and envelope:

The typewriter In question 18 equipped with an obsolete

style of German-made type which, acoording to our references, was

fitted on a mmber of typewriter made in Germany during the 1920s

The ponible makes would be Atoever, Torpedo,

Nercedes, Rheimetall, Urania, Orgs, Fortuna, Continental, Kappel,

roma, Irlumph, Mers and possibly sons others. Of there makes,

the Torpedo, Mercedes, Rhelmetall and Irlumph were probably the

most videly distributed.

b. The machine in question 1s equipped with a black and red

Strike -overs:

unlaut-u for hyphen and "y" for

charaotere are adjacent on the standard Swedish leyboard, but not

on the Germen.

The unleut a was not used in the street addrese,

"Strandvagen" (where the dots should have been placed over the

second "a"). Thie might be either a simple overnight or an attempt

to conceal the uriter's fantllarity with the correct apolling.

c. ine paper of the letter 18 of the international standard

(DIN) B129 "A4" which 10 almost universally used In Sweden. The

Iinen-textured stationery seems to be rather eoumon in Breden.

The two smaller pieces of blank paper mutch the letter paper with

respect to width, thieknens, color, texture and look-through, and

were probably out from another sheet of the same type.

The envelope

matches specimans of Swedish envelopes taken fron DB/5-Postal.

Intelligence files.

---

## Page 2

13-00000

DB Memo #6585 • Page 2

The letter was posted from the Stockholm Ban post office,

which 1s located In the central railwy teruinel In Stockholm.

All mall deposited in street m1l borea in this area or in the post

office would be processed through this station.

The cancellation cachet on the envelope 18 identical in

all respects' (format, postmark, number style and lengtn of killer

bars) to exemplars available in our office.

f. The postage 1s correct for Swedish Internal mall and the

postage stemp fa of current lesie.

A possible Irregularity is the time lag betveen the internal

date of the letter, the date of the posturis and the date of receipt

1n the American Embassy. The total time from the Internal date of

the letter to the time of receipt 1n eight days, the time between

the date of posting and the date of recelpt 18 more than three days.

This transit time of more than three days for intre-city mail appears

Irregular when compared with the average transit time of only two

three daye for arrival between Stockholm and the United States.

3. The text of the letter varrants sone comments because a number

of pecullarities were noted - aside from pure spelling or typiog errors -

which seem to indicate a Swedish writer. The following words represent

either Swedish spelling or modification: "reserv",. "etablished", "murded",

"Krustjer". Other examples of Swedish gramar and syntax would be:

"must" (a8 past tense), "in Soviet" (Suedish farm but not spelling),

"he was spy" (without indefinite article), "PBI, USA" (without definite

article),

"should" (rather than "would"),

"outsmuggled" (Swedish past

participle form), and "whole the world" (pure Swedish form).

4. Another sigalficant detall is the name given, "Ryo liang Yüan".

"Ryo" is not a standard spelling in any known Romnization system used

for Chinese.

"R" 1a seen in the new Chinese Commniet national system,

but never in combination with "yo". "Ryo" Is a Japanese spelling. In

the name given it is not known whether the Chinese or lestern presen-

tation 1s uned, 1o other vords, wether "Ryo" or "Yuan" in mant to be

the surname.

Among Chinese syllables which could be represented by the

Japanese "Ryo" are lleo, Liang and Lung. Of these lung (IC: 7893) and

Ilang (IC: 2733) ere uned as surpemes.

In either case

"Ryo" 1s hardly

a name by which a real Chinese would Identify himself.

5. In summary, and based on the

above information, It Ia concluded

that the letter mus trananitted via normal Swedlah postal charnele..

The

lotter 18 probably a "crank letter", most Ikely written by e swede,

wing a swedish-keyboard typewriter and Swedish stationery.

---

## Page 3

13-00000

DB Memo $6585 - Fage 3

6.

for further Information concerning the typewriter and paper

enelyses, and the Swedish style of language usage, contact Mr. Jan

Beck on x2009. for further information on the spelling of the

ostensible writer's nome, you nay contact Mr. Gerald Worth on x2608.

For further Information regarding the Fostal aspects of this case,

please contact Mr. Robert H. Banks on x2303•

7. The original letter and envelope are being returned herewith.

ALBIN R. TRACIOKAS

Chief, TSD/DB

Attachment: (1)

As stated

Distribution:

Orig & 1 - Addressee

1 - TSD/GARB/A&R

1 - TSD/DB/3

1 - DB files

1 - PI chrono

1 - Case 4361

TSD/DB/5-PI/RHBanks/x2303/ery

---

