104-10308-10143

cot eu
eer vee son":
sat _ Do Not- Reprouuen)

=
“43 yobrusry 1962

a
+ Raul daino DIAZ Arguolles y Garcia .(201~269882)
- Raul DIAZ Aucuelles fetieeeh!
. Raul DIAZ Argueyes ae oo

’

Sean Crater ERNE IF

of informatio: Pogasding Subject: .

: report cated 24 Decorber 1959 stated Bubjoct®
was born/about 1923, son of Raul and Uarina, resided.at ~ eee
No.-11Q8 betreen 11 and 12, Biltmore, Havanz, Bae
Dbject is married to the forsear Mariana RAMIREZ | ie
After his stuccat days he was omployed as a ,

typis echanical onginosr, chauffeur and a clerk. aie
Bubjecs. vas discharged from the revolutionary arzy (cate A
an‘ows) in vhich he held the rant of Major and on 12 -
November 1959 he eatered the services of the National
Revolutionary Police. Subject was appointed os Cyiot

of tho Technical Dopartment. of Tayestigations TI): on

27 November 1353,

bd. me Decerber 1959 Subject vas believed to be:
-aecompanying Major William GALVEZ, Inspector General of -
the fuban Arny, oa the latter's extenced trip to Europe. : a

; c.. In June 1960 it was reported that Subject, Chioz
of the DTI was given a 2 Sodths leave oF absence and was fa
“to Jeave on a tour of several Latin Azorican countries 7 3
possibly to inspect Cuban foreign intelligenca operations. i
Bubjecs vas issued a U.S. visa valicé from 22 August 1950 . = :
30 Septexber 1960 for the purpose of inssiiseiiiiba ~,
the Cuban delegation to the Uaited Zations. .

4. It was reported in March 1990 that Raul” casT20
was glanning to obtain control of the Dri.and ropiacs auta
Subject with. Manuel PINZIRO a Comanist. - . tHe

©. On 31 Auctst 1961 a source of untmorn reliability c 7
reported the folleving information: "Raul DIAZ Spelies, .
bigh level moxbsr of the 26th of July Hovenan’ e

resistanca and later heed of the Departzent of Technicai
Investigations (DTI) was discharged trea his position in ee
wuly 1981 and was wopiscsa by Rector ALDAVA. a vell snom
Commnigt =ullatto from Grickte. After DIAZ was sisaissod, »


: many of the DTI an wore sent to the “Batalion de.
wot “Cambate" a, pick and shovel work batalion where persons .
i _ falling din disgtace are sent for panishnent." Te Pa

“1: 7g, Another source, aossl roliability is not- known, aoe
stated that Subjoct had fallen into disgrace in Cuba, ae x
and that while some porsgns claired chat he was assigned | : Hae
to Managua Canp, others were sure that he was sent to’. :

‘ prison. ; Re a Ef a
g., One source states Subject vas a nexber of the
“Wigth of Harch™ Revolut#onary Directory. He was assigned
ii be the G-5 and was’ later put in charge of tha Isle of Pines
orces,

* h. Another source of unknown roliabifity that
Mrs. DIAZ is vory well known in Havana, beizg p-eviously- oe ‘.
active in the Little Theater, and active socially: -She.is
woll known to the members of the G-2 at the airport. She
is also friendly with the Panamanian AcSassacor and his
wife, “Raul DIAZ is poorly regarded although he has a*
position of great dnfluence in the DiI. He is zeportediy _
working with former U.S. sters who were egpeered Seon
“the U8: and that he is airilintea=wies the narcotics
racket 7 :

2. The files of this office reflect the foliowing a : oats :
information on one Raul DIAZ: bsstesiesteaiestest | :

"a, .Réul DIAZ is reverted to ‘be a senber of. the G-2 in’
‘Pinar del Rio. . a co
7 + be 7 On 29 Apri. "1962 “thie otfice intercepted a report

dated 20 April 1961 stating that one Raul DIAZ wag among ©.  , oe
_& group of Cubans who were to-enter Cuba from Canadap gianeee)
jMexico or possibly Miani via air. It was reported they * i!

would have U.5, dollars hidden und that they were traitors, -

black marketeers and “Yankee spies. a
: “8, The files of this’ office reZlect no information ro +
: serding Subject's wite Mariana RAMIKEZ Corria. 3 . peeecde et

4. . All other ‘information reported to this office was
received from The Federal Bureau of, Investigation ang .:
Imnigratiod and Naturalization Service. It is suggested tha
gos check further hota the above for additional inforzation.

5. " Be0 other reports received by this office were: Azerican .
Babasazy Dispatch £1978 dated @ March 1960 and ORI Report # 133-57 ”
29 August 1957. . Both reports originated in Havana, Cud2.



13-00000

4
a
aft
1
i
:
Hi
3

ton to th’ effect that the above -
in tha Seaeiifan Ectassy in‘Havena .
Sy]. According to tke Sntormaticn fob
(igsteereen this action ty Doz apvars to bea cores up £9 ofder to fet cut
Cups of Cuba to cersy on a pase of fort activity, Dias epparently
‘is the head of Intettigence (Teetnicel) Seartont of Tavestigetions
“and in his capacity he could leave Cuba at any tine a a
_” to paquast gale” eri through an oabassye RaHE :

+ Ye ave reotived inform:
* subject is pras: ly is
{possibly the 5

ged
Tpaud Diag arguell's is PEteved to te tn cecpleta charge of

Seay “astivity as contemplated by Aldo Pedro Vargoliss-Duenas, which

involves a plot to assissinet= the President of iat ted Stal

~The sibject is deserited as Raa. deize Dias Acgusliee-oei 3
“white; male; Cutan; DOB 9-14-57, Havina, Cubag 5-21 sae brown oo
hater; trom oynss Mahe cozplexicn; F2D Yo. 381952-2; Nog ot.
> -al0 85 wis ‘ eenatacitt

we : “Information paeciived indhectes tha subsect is pespensthis 2
‘for assassinations during the Sa$ista regina; is a known ‘errosist;
‘+ ¢ “and ds-capable dn the use of explosive bombs and autenatic wea,
| » Be dg also believed to have directed assasSinaticns in the past
a from sommtiere, ia Faxico,,
E ao

7 “arguelles ds presently the sebsect of a_Z320 Lookout “throkghent. _
a " saa’ str Strategic points of bias as eld as Aldo Pegro Margoly DLA seTeT AD

- It is EDS you use” — facttitins aa asaistin g this
: poe ia tae raing the) ourrent wiarsabouts, of % hase tw ders hice

received wich indicates that, Che Quevarra is corently is the”
Jof infiltrating the police derarioents im all the Socth Azeri.
countries, Available inforrstion indicetes Guavarra already *
gee control over the Judicial Police in Mexico Sity.

cate et amen pap iianieigpnnis

4.

Up i
