# 104-10127-10172

## Page 1

104-10127-10172

UNCEASSIFIED

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

SECRET DO CO IDENTIAL

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SECRET

SUBJECT: (Optional)

FROM:

ETENSION

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and

DATE

building)

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

RECEIVED

FORWARDED

1.

SCOTT

2:

White

Phillips

Manell

5. і :

3 haw

6.::

7.

Goo apasture

Keenan

3. Du

90

8.

Carol

.

U. Maniell

10.

Rose O1 CaneC.

11.

3 / dec'63

PRO

i Jan

12.

13.

14.

Дстр

7an

15.

FORM

3-62

610 SETONOUS

EDITIONS

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

NO.

HMMW - 12193

DATE

17 Dec63

OMMENTS..(Number. each.comment to show from who

to whom.

Drow a line ocross column ofter each comment

Lup a

396--40

717/64.

ENDATIDI

STATION

GPIP

85931

Дили

rud mass

INTERNAL.

USE ONLY SECRECLASSIFIED

---

## Page 2

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

TO

PROCESSING

ACTION

MARKED FOR INDEXING

XXX

NO MOEXING REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED

ALSOM

Chief of Station, Mexico City

INFO.

FROM

Chief, WHD

SUBJECT

RYBAT/®

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

ABSTRACT

MICROFILM

We would like to take time out in our Investigation of the President's

assassination to appraise the role of the Mexico City Station In the whole affair.

Since the early afternoon of 22 November 1963, Mexico City has been the only

maJor overseas reporter in the case.

While this is partly dictated by the

facts of Lee OSWALD's life, we have not overlooked the really outstanding per-

formance of Mexico City's major assets and the speed, precision, and perception

with which the data was forwarded. Here it was relayed within minutes to the

White House, ODACID, and ODENYY.

2.

Your Lilalor data, the statements of Silvia DURAN, and your analyses

were major factors In the quick clarification of the case, blanking out the really

ominous spectre of foreign backing:

3. We regret that we have been able to send you so little information in

return, but we have not been given much yet. We do know that Lee OSWALD denied

he had ever been to Mexico except for a jump to lla Juana. We have quickly

screened the FBI report on the whole case but we do not yet have a copy for

retention. It does not compromise your sources. Basically, what the New York

Imes has printed about the report is all true.

We have meanwhile been flooded with fabrications, of which the ALVARADO

story was the most troublesone. They are still coming in.

i*:

(CONTINUED)

196-116

Distribution:

O&1 - COS, Mexico City

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

RELEASE AS SANITIZED

1999

§CROSS REFERENCE TO .

CLASSIFICATION

SIORIT

DATE TYPED

13 Dec 1963

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

HMMW -12193

HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBER

1201-287248

DATE DISPATCHED

---

## Page 3

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

I CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

HMMM-12193

You have had good support from your liaison, but as usual the really

outstanding features were Mexico Station's famous generalship and the skill and

devotion of 1ts personnel. Please convey our admiration to all who participated,

down to the last technician, translator, and monitor. We know that the work

your Station did during the President's 1962 visit made you feel this tragedy

with particular keenness, as did we.

Tever"9, galbind

OLIVER G.

ALSON

FORM

53c

USE PREVIOUS EDITION.

CLA 3S!FICATION

SECRET

CONTINUED

PAGE NO

2.

---

