# 104-10182-10073

## Page 1

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON MON

104-10182-10073

britai

FILE TITLE/NUNDER/VOLUME:

LICKES, ALASTALK

Đat 80/202

INCLUSIVE DATES:

CUSTODIAL UNTT/LOCATION:

DELETIONS, IF ANY:

- ROON:

THIRD ACENCY MATARIAL

DATE DATE

RECEIVED

RETURNED

10.20

1950028

REVIEVED BY (PRINT NAME)

WENDY CELLINS

SIGNATURE OF REVIENING OFFICIAI

Wendy SColer

NO DOCUNENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE

---

## Page 2

1SS ATZRENCE

TOM OF RECORD COPY

INFORMATION

EvALUATION

• 1l applicable.

VIGAS, SLESTAIR

221-501702

Sex

M000??-

CIT ?.

200-006-485403

PARI: 33.753

13: NOV 72

9C6.7

SUPREOUR NOTEO

GIVEN 25

niexs

SPELLING SUSS NAME IN REPORT

NICKS

FRENCH PHUNETIC RENDERING OF

R 7301180251

Indicate: The Subject, Project Or

201 File-NO.

In Which Tols

For Is To Be Filed.

SUBJECT OF SOl (Loos. Firal, Middle)

201-

₴67.

80/7.02

SECRET

18-461

---

## Page 3

•a cries.

SECRET

in rilled ros.

EXTRACT AND CROSS REFERENCE

DOLUMENT. IDENTiFICATION

"BILE CLAS

SIFICATINT DE RECORO COPE

SOURCE INFORMATION

DATE OF' INFO:

A CVALUATION

TEXT: OF, EXTRACT. (Aloo' caro doe. distributdon, Dispos.

WEEKS, ALISTAR

201-801762

SEX M. DOB 2*

CIT

RHODESIA ?

200-011 010/05

DBD 19954

30 JUL 71

FBI

OCC MERCENARY

LOCATED ON IBILA ISLANO IN THE BELEARIC

ISLANDS ASSOCIATED W/COL• PETERS AND MIKE

HOARE

R. 7109230296

'Indicate The Subject, Project Or

201 File No. In Which This

• Form

Is To Be Filed.

201-801702

1008.867

SECRET

---

## Page 4

1-801702

(Jazes)

TOES; Alastair /lator/

DOB:

17. November 1917

POB:

England

Citizenship: Rhodesian

Jul. 66

5 Address: 38 Montague Square

London ₩ 1

Mar 67 Address: 190 Bickenhall

Mansions

London W.1:

(Listed under Janis Morris)

Mercenary In Katanga gendarme, 1961

Former RAS (Rhodesian Air Services)official

Recruiter of South Rhodesian mercenaries for Tshombe forces - 1964

2rd in Command to Mike HOARE In 5 CDO:

Left-Leopoldville Dee 1965 at termination of mercenary contract

for Johannesburg.

One of mercenarles involved in July

(although still in she pay of Posurf plot to overchrow MoniTy

Also,

tried to involve Michael HOARE in the plot.

He offered

HOARE: 20,000 I for 6 month contract and rank of full Colonel.

Recruiting Orficer in South Africa for Tshombe's forces..'66

Unwitting SMOTH contact - 1966

Went to London in October 1966

Unscrupulous and undependable

Rui-80702

---

## Page 5

WICKS, Alastair

PRET 2618

IN 31010)

Early Aup Sullect cane fron Salisbury with asps for

PUREN fron Pierre LAURDYS: and Jack alloch (of Phode-

30 Sep 1963 stan Air Services). LAUREYS was arrangine for Malloch

to my out ers and anno to Fovalists In reten. Malloch

was to pet contract to fly amus, from Europe to, Yemen also.

PUREN

was to proceed plane va Salisbury, to Yemen as official observer

for South African Defense HQS.

AHS 1016

CS. DB. 312/641-64

Alastair WICKS, forner RAS official returned to

18 Sep 1964

falisbury to begin the recruitment or Southern

hodestars for service as mercerartes with TSCHOMBE!.

forces in the Congo. In newspaper ad calling for

recruits, Interested parties were requested to call Salisbury 55745%

which 1s the number listed for WICKS in S. Rhodestan telephone direc

tory.

KINSHASA 0864

(IN 17389)

9 Mar 1967

HOARE stated he going London about 12 March to

check on Yemen deal.

HOARE had previously received

latter from Alastair WICKS In London offering him

Job with good pay and conditions. He belleves this

Job concerns Yemen.

AZPA: 2201

Attached a letter from WICKS to HOARE, Indicating WICKS

16 Mar 67

unable to develop proposition further..

HOARE estimates

that the WICKS proposition relates to recruitment of mer-

cenaries for service in Yezen. His only basis for this is develop•

ment reported in AZPA 2200.

501-501762

---

## Page 6

DISPATCH

Chlet, Arica Divalon:

QASSHICATION

S-E-C-R-E-T

PROCESSING ACTION

Chief of Station,

OPERATIONAL/SECAROB - Letter ze Narcenary Alfalra

Referance: AZPT - 2258, 4 March 1970

o her warded harowth to the subatance of the latent letter received

by SECAROD/I Lom subject of 201 - 801702 re mercenary ailalre and

Darios ref trips

Kemeth H, PHILBROOK

Attachment h/v

letter

Dlstribution:

Orig. #2 - C/AF w/att

CRES CERERDIE 10

S4655:

DISPLION STADOR ADD ALIMZER

AZPA - 3050

CLASSIFICATIOU

SE-C-R-E-T

5 March 1970

F0F 746685

---

## Page 7

14-00000

AT TO PA 1

$ stach 70

We are stilf hold up in one business id thave harto call

in my own supplies to give an estimale is the previous one,

who was virtually unknown to me, did sut seem to unlesstand

the importance of security in the industrial field today.

This

In fact should

I suit us better as tom sure i can do a better

deal for us with our own man.

cort

Thave had to put off my departure fur one week as a result

of this as leads imporrant eo keep my fingers on the pulse at

this moment. I have a merting with the partners tomorrow when

thope to get things moving and a firm proposal sunt to bankers.

I mentioned to the partners thai you had some novel ideas

to solve the delivery problem and in

vien of the possible extra

cost, they have asked me to get an outline from you as to what

your ideas are, both froin the point of view of additional expense

which, if adopted, would need to be incluried in the budget and also

to give some added encouragement since this particilar problem

comes up again and again and so far l have refused to be drawn

on the subject thuugh you know my first ideas. Think a letter

to the Club Nattico will reach me safely though it would obviously

be inadvisable to mention the Spice Isiands.

I hear there is much afoot in your part of the world and boih

Brazzaville and the Sudan hate been montioned also another

operation. I hope you will not return to that sort of thing at

least until we have fully. explored. the possibilities of the new

company.

(dated 25 February 1970)

90i - 316655

201-501702

IS COPY

---

## Page 8

про

MAN

6963

9. Fehruars

MAn 58 20

SECRET

968

ma m

COPy

Janet

don Ammon 05/515

SECRET

INFO;

KRHOLLY

REPS:

26634

ABSTRACT

15.01

7428, 1

3 P

(I!

38143)

_(IN 39172)

FOLLOWING HQS TRACES ON ALASTAIR WICKES PROBABLY IDENTICAL

VITH JAURS ALASTAER EDMOND VICKS. WAS MERCENARY IN KATANGA CENDARNS,

1961 IN JULY 1964, RETURNED TO CONGO AS SECOND IN COMMAND TO MICHAEL

HOARE'S WHITE MERCENARY GROUP. WAS LOCAL MERCENARY RECRUITED FOR

TSHOMBE IN SALISBURY.

MAJOR IN HEADQUArTERS DETACHME

DEATH COMMANDO

IY CONCO FEBRUARY 1965: RESIGNED FRON STH CONHANDO IN DECEMBER 1965.

WENT 2O JOHANNESBURG ACTING AS MERCENARY RECRUITING OFFICER IN SOUTH

AFRICA. WAS ONE OF THE MERCEYARIES INVOLVED IN JULY 1966. PLOT TO OVER-

THROW MOBUTU BY FORMER CONGOLESE PRIME MINISTER MOISE TSHOMBE INVOIVING

THE SIH COMMANDO MERCENARIES. IN JULY 1967 WICKS REPRESENTED JACK

MALLOCH'S AIR TRANS AFRICA IN LONDON, FUNCTION IN LONDON DESCRIBED AS

LIAISON WITH AUTAIR OF LONDON AND TO ARRANGE MERCENARY FLIGHT TO CONGO.

HOWEVER, THESE OPS HAVE VIRTUALLY CEASED. AUGUST 1967 WICKS INVOLVED

IN MERCEVARY PLINS TO UVERTION CONGOLESE GOVERNMENT.

MICROTILMEO

WAS IN LISBON,

FEB 47 1968

HERNANN

DOC. MICRO. HER.

(O00DIMANNG OVIKANI

SECRET

L

REPBODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITED.

3- 0701-051875

AUAMRNTICAIIINE

OFFICEA

COPY NO.

171-841702

Foes

---

## Page 9

TAR C3FE

SECRET

E no dou

5 6925 3 20 PH :68

Diad memo

to COPY

PAGE THO

7428/

Г

NEGOTIATING WITH PORTUGUESE ABOUT SEDING ASSISTANCE TO DISSIDENT

- MERCENARY MAJOR JEAN SCHRANNE.

MAVICAR JOHN I

MALLOCH PROBABLY IDENTICAL WITH JACK MALLOCH;

FORMER PILOT IN KATANGA AIR FORCE. IS NOW HEAD OF AIR TRANS AFRICA IN

RHODESIA. COMPANY HAS BEEN IN FINANCIAL TROUBLE SINCE 1966. IN ORDER TO

KEEP IN BUSINESS, IT AFPEARS MALLOCH HAS BEEN OBLIGED. TO ACCEPT CONTRACTS

WHICH ARE OBVIOUSLY ILLEGAL, IN AUGUST 1967 BE OPERATED TWO CONSTELLA-

TIONS AND A DC-A, LAST MENTIONED USED ON FREIGHT SERVICES FROM LUANDA,

ANÇOLA, AND LISBOY, AND ON OPERATTONS FROM SAO TONE TO BAERA. IN LATE

AVUISI, HALLOCH FLEW 39 BELGIAN AND FRENCH MERCENARIES INTO PUNIA VIA

LUANDA IN A DC-6. HAD AT HIS DISPOSAL FOR THE AIRLIFT ONE DC-7, TWO

DO-A'S, AND ONE DC-3.. WAS WORKING WITH ALASTAIR WICKES IN THE MERCENARY

PLANS TO OVERTHROW THE CONCOLESE GOVERNMENT. JOHN PETERS ATTEMPTED TO

TIE HIS SFFORT WITH THAT OF WICKS AND MALLOCH, AND THEY A TENTATIVELY

AGREED TO A PLAN TO FLY REINFORCEMENTS TO SCHRAMME TO SERCRAF PLANTATION

AT UVIRA. NO INFORMATION ON EITHER WICKS OR MALLOCH IN FILE AFTER

AUGUST 1967, ALTHOUGH WELL KNOWN THEY CONTINUE ASSOCIATION WITH BIAFRAN

AIRLIFT.

COOROUNATRO OFFSCHRE

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

AUTHIATICATBR

OFFICIA

COM NO

---

## Page 10

000

ABY:

MACs ROC

TOTAL COMAS!

SECRET

OUTENO AND/ ON UNTIALE

I to cop

L no moes punchina.

19 Di

946*

Г

PAGE THREE

NO HEADQUARTERS TRACES ON ANY OTHER INDIVIDUALS CITED RIF A.

ABOVE CAN BE PASSED KRHOLLY/4•

FOR J: HEADQUARTERS HAS NO INFORMATION WALLERSTEINER;

PLEASE PORKARD SOUR TRACES.

END OF MESSAGE

AF/5

Діл 1 0..

Sablems:

C/AF/4

#HAING COONES

COORDINATINE OrKNeS

"CASUF

Rus donato e

SECRET

REPRODUCTICN BY ÖTHER THAN THE ISSUING ÖFFICE IS PROMISITED.

DUFIONTIRATINC

copy to.

---

## Page 11

ADLE SECRETARI"

Disse di

потоні

iSTiCO MESSAGI

SECRET

En 55

(When Fillad fr

REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PACHIBITED

2L

CASION TO MILE NO 261- SOIZE 2

R-PET TO FILE NO

PILE MO DAET TO

10 AND/OR IMITALS: SKIS EY

"Ri no con

FELE."

SECRET 131043Z FEB 68 CITE

DIRECTOR INFO

KROLL Y

REP:

A.

TALSI

13F8 6915013€

(43 2143)

AN Kim

7443420))

ARSIA

DIRECIOR 74125

APPRECIATE REF.

HOWEVER, STATION'S ORIGINAL QUERY

(REF A)

NOT. AWSWERED

PLEASE ADVISE.

SEC

RET

BT

D0:.801762

SECRET

---

## Page 12

SECRET

Pilton Pai

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS NEFERENCE

•SU@JICT.OF. DOCiME

4DUT 10 90Р

no file no.

0180a-30.c9

80çaç$/000.

BATE PROCLISTE

• DOCUMENT

10 72.

INEROMATIO"

WICAS

ALISTAIR

200-191102

007-009-011

SEX MOM?

120 AUG AT.

CIT 8

UEC -00291:

P1:

FONMIN MICENAEY MADUR WAD AS STILL IN LISBON

NEGUT-LATING

WITM.PIHTUGUESE.AOUUT SENDING

ASSISTANCE TO DISSADEVY MERCENARY MAJUR SLAN

SCHRAMME.

ACLUPLUBRANSALP

R 6708293294

FILE IN 201-801202

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

867 tir ve

SECRET

---

## Page 13

SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT

SECRET

DOCUNENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

DOC UNCOP

* FILE NO.

DISPATOM OF SOURCE

Date do raro.

Date

O. COALUATION

LEM

3.

WICKS

ALISTAIR

201-801702

SEX M 000 8

007-009-011

BRUS-09865

CIT ?

13 AUG 67

OCC 7

OBB :07301

P5.

RE SUMMARY OF THO PLANS FOR OVERTHROW OF

CONGOLESE GOVERNMENT•

OELACL

R 0708254987

FILE IN 203-50/1/402

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

867 84e

•SECRET

---

## Page 14

SUBJECT OF COCUMENT

SECRET

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AMO CROSS REFERENCE

TETHERE H1

•RI FILE NO.

NICKS

201-8001702

SEX N 008 ?

201-346685

GIT?

BRUS-09068

13 AUG 67

P 1

RE

GOVERNMENI

MERCENARY PLANS TO OVERTHROW CONGOLESE

DELACL

R 8708255679

FILE IN 201-FLiT?

FiLE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

в - #9

867

SECRET

---

## Page 15

LE. 40:

нат.

80 paise O

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

AF/345/RE

SECRE

AARY GORMLEY

DO FRONIBITED

30

I RID COPY

0...

20 Ju 67 021 140

SECRET 283930 CITE

DIRECTOR INFO

KINSHASA,

SEF: DIRECTOR 23009

ACCORDING BRICK/I, WHO OPTAINED INFO FROM CAPT. ODONOVAND

OPS MANAGER OF CENTRAL APPICAN AIRWAYS, WICKS. WICKS REPRESENTS

ALP TRANS AFRICA IN LONDON, WOS THERE ON 12 JULY, AND NO INDICATION

HE SÚBSEQUEUTLY LEFT LONDON. FUNCTION IN LONDON DESCRIBED

AS LIAISON WITH AUTAIR OF LONDON AND TO ARRANGE MERCENARY

FLIGHT TO CONGO.

HOWEVER, THESE OPERATIONS HAVE "VIRTUALLY

CEASED" AND AIR TRANS AFRICA NOW APPEARS TO RELY SOLELK

ON AIRLIFTING PETROL FROM FRANCISTOWN, BOTSWAN TO LIVINGSTON,

ZAMBIA USING COMPANY'S TWO FRANCISIOWP-REGISTERED IE-A'S.

SECRET

SERPET

---

## Page 16

Адса TONA

SECRET

B17;

7573

5032

26 July 196?

CARLO BECEATANIAI DiSSEMINATION

28

вт :

Cont

AF

O MUN TO LANCH

O mi no

-AT/ 762

RID COPY

SECRET

TO

INFO

7:

REFE

5418 (n016565)

1.

(NOT FENT E

→ REPORTS JOHN R. LATZ CAME

BRUSSELS NINE MONTHS AGO AXD CURRENTLY EMPLOYED AS SALES

INSPECTOR BY IT'S FOURCROY SA, 119 RUE STEYLS, BRUSSELS, A VIOLESALE

LIQUOR DISTRIBUTOR.

2, WIGEAR LAST SAW LATZ CIRCA 10 JUNE. SAYS LATZ LEFT KINSHASA & OH

AUGUST 66 (INGOLD TRAFFIC AT TIME CONFIRUS THIS> PASSED THROUGH

BRUSSELS ON WAY VISIT FASILY LONDON; THEN VISITED BROTHER COrE

D'AZUR FRANCE, LATZ SETTLED BRUSSELS FALL f6 WITH FOURCROY AND HAS

NOT TRAVELED AFRICA SINCE.

3. WIGEAR NOTED LATZ MAINTAINS CONTACT WITH ALASTAIR WICKES,

'WHO WIGEAR BELIEVES STILL EMPLOYED BY RHODESIAN AIRLINES AND

TRAVELS SALISBURY-LONDON. DOES FIVE ANT INFO

WICKES! ACTIVITiES?

END OF MESSAGE

A8/2 Yetin

AF/COPS 221

BELHASING OFFICER

CCORDINATINO OFFICiES

SECRET

GROUP

REFROCUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMISITED.

AUTHINTICATING

COFF AQL

---

## Page 17

One 0sn.

no.

10/3

ASSENTO MESSAGE

SECRET

Test BeTirito

not an

BI RID COPY

0. 0..O..

SECRET USIBIE L CITE MINSHASA @864

PERSCTOR INFO

ORCATOB

9MA 0317389

CB 3 MARCH 1967 SECAROS/I HAD MEETING VITA HASLANGER AND

HEPCHTLD FOLLOWING ABOUT HIS MEETING WITH MISTATIC/I.

A. SECAROB/I TRILD UNSUCCESSFULLY TO GET WISTATIC/S TO

LOCUS ON WHAT GORC WAS GOING TO LIVE HIM FOR PHASING OUT THE

COMMANDO AND FOR RECRUITING NEW MEN IN ENGLAND. BASED ON

WISTATIC/L'S ATTITUDE THAT SECAROB/I WAS SOMETHING OF A CAD

FOR BRINGING UP MONEY MATIERS, SECAROB/I TOLD VISTAIIC/ HE

HAD NO INTENTION OF PHASING OUT S COMPANDO: UNLESS INIS FOL-

LOVED UP WITH RECRUITHENT OF ABU MEN FROM ENGLAND WITH

EVENTUAL "EXPANSION THIS FORCE TO 800 MEN, MOST OF WHOM WOULD

BE ARTISANS AND PROFESSIONAL MENS AND FINALLY SECAROB/I TO BE

ALCULO TO DEVELOR TOURISE INTHE EASTERY CONGO. AS A RESULT

•THIS CONVERSATION SECAROB/I STATED THAT HE NOW HAS RESERVA-

¡TONS ABQUT BEING AX MAN FOR THE S COMMANDO BECAUSE HE HASA

O ASSURANCE THAT THE GORC VILL PERNIT

AKNE

SAY TO CARRY OUT THE

*THER ASPECTS OF INIS. PROGRARO

---

## Page 18

TO SECAROB/I°S SUGGESTION O

HISTATIC/I THA: MOBUTU

QUI IN LAMARP ON THE PHASE-OUT OF THE S COMMAÑDO DUE TO

- HE

WITHUS POSITION IN ALBERTVILLE, MISTATIC/I REPLIED

3, ARE YOU? WE DON'T

WITE THEM"

CASSUME MISTATIC'S RUE• REAS TO HIMSELT AND

DELPERDANGE.

SECAROB/I ADVISED MISTATIC' THAT PETERS COULD BE A

DIFFICULT MAN TO MANDLE IF DISBANDMENT OF S COMMANDO

NOT PROPERLY HANDLED. VISTATIC, SAID ME SAN NO DIFFI-

CULTIES HERE. (SECAROB/I LATER STATED HE DID NOT FEAR

PETERS BECAUSE THE LATTER STIUL MAD A SUSGEANT'S ATTITUDE

TOWARDS NIS CONPANDING OFFICER, SECAROB/I.

HASLANGER

CAUTIONED SECAROB/S AGAINST TAXING PETERS TOO LIGITLY.

DO WISTATICIL COMPLAINED TO SECAROB/I ABOUT SECAROB/1

NOT HAVING GIVEN MIM A LETTER OF RECOMMENDATION BACK IN

SEPTEMBER 1966. WISTATIC/I SAID ME MAD INTENDED USE LETTER

ALONG WITH OTHERS TO PREVENT HIS REMOVAL AND THAT OF

GENERAL DELPERDANGE FROM THE CONGO BY THE BELGIAN ARMY.

SECAROB/I CONCLUDED MIS DISCUSSION OF WISTATIC/ I WITH THE

COMMENT THAT WISTATIC! KNOUS THE CONGO AS FEW MEN DO AND

THAT HE IS A SENSITIVE MAN WITHOUT COURAGE. SECRET

---

## Page 19

FAGS 3

SIGRET SOMET

CONCERNINE THE OAU MEETING IN SEPTEMBER, SECAROB/!

EMPHASIZED THAT MOBUTU TOLD HIM THAT IT HIS INTENTION TO

DET PERMANENT HEADQUARTERS OF OAU TRANSFERREC TO THE

CONGO. FURTHER THE GORE WISHES TO BE A STRONG MILITARY

FOGER IN CENTPAL AFRICA, WITN TNIS COMBINATION MOBÚTU

HOPES THAT THE GDBG VILL BE THE LEADING POVER IN CENTRAL

AFRICA AND POSSIBLY IN ALL OF AFRICA.

SO PHILE CONTIRATIO HIS VILLINGNESS TO DISBAND THE S CORMANDO

IF LNHARP WANTS MIM TO DO SO, SECAROB/I EMOTIONALLY TOLD

HASLANGER THAT ME MAP GREÄT RESPECT FOR LNHARP AND VOTAGIS

ME WAS OUR MAN AND WOULD BE EVER LOYAL TO LNHARP WHICH HE

DELIEVES MUST EXERCISE MORE INFLUENES IN AFRICA, INHARP MAS

ALdAYS BEEN FAIR TO HIMS AND THAT FITHOUT HOFACT THE 3

COMMANDO COULD NEVER HAVE DONE ITS JOB. PRIOR TO LEAVING

MASLANGER'S HOME SECAROB/L LEARNED THAT HASLANGER MIGHT

BE LEAVING THE CONGO AROUND AUGUST 1967. SECAROB/I&

IATED

INAT IF GUTMMAN AND HASLANGER VERE TO LEAVE THE CONDO

HE WOULD BE RELUCTANT TAKE ON HIS NE: JOB SINCE PERSONAL

RELATIONSHIPS MEAN A GREAT, DEAL IC HIM AND VERE IMPORTANT

!? PLEMENTING HIS NEY PROGRAM.

SEARET

---

## Page 20

PAGE 4 I

SECRET

SSSHET

TATARLY CEC

PICS! CIA TIME COIN PN MOT

12 MARCH TO CHECK ON INE YEMEM DEAL- HE SUGGESTED LNHARP

MIGHT WANT HIM TO GO TO YENEN AND THAI HE WOULD DO SO IF

LAHARP DESIRED IT•

HE NOT ENCOURAGED BUT TOLD TO REPORT

FULL INFO THIS SUBJECT. (SECAROB/S MAD PREVIOUSLY REPORTED

THAT ME MAU RECEIVED A LETTER FROM ALASTAIRE NICKES IN LOON.

LETTER STATED THAT JOB AVAILABLE VITH GOOD PAY AND CONDI

TIONS: SECAROB/1 BELIEVES JOB CONCERNS YEREN. ME KNOUS THAT

(FNUS STERLING, -OF LONG RANGE DESERT GROUP FAME, HAS LARGE

GROUP CF MERCENARISE IN YEMEN.)

INSTRUCTED SICAROB/1 TO CHECK ITH PRETORIA ON HIS RETURN

SOUTH AFRICA A MARCH.

SECRET

BT

---

## Page 21

AF 7

SRITICATON

SECRET

20 23 20 Z

CITE DIRECTOR

61200.

KEYSTLASA

wigutT

RÉFERENCE A KINSHASA 2412 (DY 55542).

(EN: 59541)

1. LIQS NOTES THAT NAVE ALASTAIR WICKS HAS NOT APPEARES

RECENT SECAROS/ REPORTING OF WIQUIT/ PLOTTING. DURING SUMMER

PLOTTE:G HORS ALLIGEDLY ONE SE PRECIALS NVOLVED. REFERENCE

B, HOWEVER, SUGGESTS THAT WICE CONTINUES BE INVOLVED IN WIQUIT

PLOTTING, WOULD APPRECIATE PRETORIA STATION DEBRIEF SECAROS/:

AT NEXT REGULAR MEETING ON WICKS PRESENT WHEREABOUTS AND

ACTIVITIES.

¿. ROS HAS ALSO NOTED IRE ABSENC: AVY SMOTH REPORTIIO

TO VOSACI ON THE MACHINATICNS OF WIQUIT/ GROUP. BELEVER

WOULD BE APPROPRIATE FOR LONDOL STATION TAKE THIS UP WITH SMOTH

AYD SOLICIT THE A ASSISTANCE D' MONITORDIO ACTIVITIES AND CONTACTS

OF PETERS, WICKS, AND POSSILY ION' TEPRENCE PEET, SUBJECT

continued..

SECRET

РАСССТО АТОТЛЕР

PROMIdITED

---

## Page 22

14-00000

Tapiner

DOCTROY ARCTURE TO

SER DISECTOR

= 360:

PACK THO

DES TET PIONE

SECRET

CITE DIRECTOR

61200

DIRECTOR 30SIT AND 36456.

3.

WOULD APPRECLATE KINSHASA STATION POUCH DETAILED

DEBRIFIG REPORT PEET TRIP AND HIS CONTACTS WITH WIQUIT/1 GROUP.

WOULD ALSO APPRECIATE PRETORIA STATION POUCH DETALLED REPORT

OF SECAROB/I RECENT TRIP.

END OF MESSAGE

CAT/S1

;AFI2

_, E/BC/UN

SECRET

oR a beam.

O MIBIT&

---

## Page 23

•SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT

18s, in

SECKEl

roller ding

LUMENT TRANSPER AND CROSS REFER, E

DOCUMST

gouct" poe..

no.

EVALGATION

DOCIMENT DISPOSITION

COLONIO TO THIOLA

- PEMLINENE /NEORMALICS

MICKSO ALISTAL

201-301702

-Sex M 008/2

201-346685

VELA-4S505

LO "NUV 66

OCC

SECARUOIL SAW SUBA SEVENAL TIMES UURING MIS

LONDON VISET NOW OFF PAYROLL AND LIVING AT

199 BICKENHALL ST, LONUUN, WO A TEL HUN

1729• SECAROB/L DOES NOT HAVE HIGH REGARD

FOR SIIBA MILITAKY CAPABILITY.

ACLALP

R 6707191852

FILE IN 201- SATEE

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

• 887

SECRET

19 - 80)

---

## Page 24

¡ARAFAID SON LETTIN

Chief of Station, Kinahaae

Chief of Station

"Chiet Africa Division

o Handwriting Analysis - Alastair VICKS

A TIDA ME QUITED. PLFURLNCES

Reference:

AZPA - 2084, 9 August 1966

Action Required: For Your information

The lotter forwarced via reference was subnitted to

WOACRE for handorstlog analysis.

The results are forwarded

herewith for your

inforation,

Jerry O. HEDLISH

Attachment:

As stated above

Distribution:

Orig. &

Ringhasa (v/att.)

(w/att.)

CHOSS REFERENCE TO

2 AF/5

AF/2

I TSD/BAB

TINDEX

ABST RACE

100a. 33 sarderous aprice

DISPATCH SYMBOL AREC IN, TUBER

ACLN - 1733

OANVERCATICN

SECRET

ciri

AF/5

LE.

TSD/BAB

16 det

AF/2

08: So

FAT

AF/S

Es 12578. Prge datalias

$8 a: 914148 138

- e47e

GET 1966

DATE

21 October 1966

20L-

5=170I

MOS TRE ANIBER

201-801702

ORKGINATINGI

c, 3

COORDINA! 19G

5032

CAINENSINE

••EP

RELLASI

DISPATCH

---

## Page 25

noes Dres

BET. PO BRANCH

0 316.

n 842

0E 7

EM RELUTE CLASSIFICO MESSAGE

SECRET

ALPRODUCTION PROMiCITE

ANCE

UNIT.

TemE

DRID COPY

SECRET 19083TZ CITE

KINSHASA INFO DIRECTOR

SECAROB

REFE

TRESC

AF/S

ABSTRASLOE

1N 0c/o *20524

J(-/2491)

RE REF VICKS TOLD SECAROB/L ME RETURNING LONDON IN THREE DAYS.

ALSO REPEATED RUMOR HEARD IN SALISBURY THAT UNIDENTIFIED AMERICANS

RECRUITING MERCENARIES IN SALISBURY FOR PURPOSES OF COUP 10 REPLACE

MOBUTU WITH BOBOZO.

SECRET

SECRET

201-801702

---

## Page 26

SEGRET

12 October 1966

TSD/BAD MENO 0225-66

MEMORANDUM FOR:

ATTENTION

SUBJECT

Chief, AF/S

REFERENCE

Alastairse salysis -

AF/5 memo dated 29 Aug- 1966

Attached herewith is the bandwriting assessment

report on subject as requested by reference.

report was prepared by

the

_lof this office.

Any comments or criticism would be appreciated.

2.

The data supplied is insufficient for further

psychological assessment.

If

contact reports and personal

observations of subject's manner and behavior becone

available, we could

produce a more precise assessment

oriented to subject's performance in intelligence.

activities:

Mill

lies !.

William C. GOSWOOD (P)

Chief, TSD/BAB

Attachnents:

Report. &

h.. sample

---

## Page 27

SECT

Handuriting Assessment Report

Alastair Wicks AF

The writer seems to be a very clever individual of a high

intellectual level who handles his affairs in a independent

manner.

Endowed wich a good intelligence, he is well educated

and cultured. He has not only absorbed but, also, assimilated

the material he has read and studied and utilizes it in a pur-

poseful fashion, Hts thinking is clear, logical and versatile.

His intelleccual faculties are well trained and differentiated,

and, to a large extent, they support his practical calents and

Interests constructively, He discards supertluous matters, and,

whenever possible, he deals with only the vital points in a

probi-s or a Situacion. He possesses Impressive mental agility

with well developed analyzing and synthesizing faculties.

Is quite intuitive and senses Instinctively the implications of

happenings around him.

He is

an alert and ascute observer of small details hich

he relates correctly to their larger aspects.

Being quite re-

sourceful, he combines imagination with

sober matter-of-factness.

He follows prescribed rules and regulations when absolutely

necessary ard, whenever possible, exercises his mental indepen-

dence.

He forms his own opinion and judement and keeps his own

counsel in makiny decisions.

He may accept somebody else's

suggestions that he considers suitable for his purposes but he

is not actually influenced by others.

At times, he may deliber-

ately make somebody feel as if he is seeking his advice and

following it, but, in realicy, he does what he considers best.

He is very critical and evaluates by high standaids.

He can be

very outspoken in his criticismor he can cautiously withhold it

depending on his appraisal of the circumstances.

His interests

cover snall items of information to large size projects and

operations.

While he notices evesything that Is going on, he

can concentrate on his work.

When required, he can

switch quickly

from one task. to another.

His memory functions well and he can

reproduce facts easily.

---

## Page 28

SEC

The writer has administrative ability on a supervisory level.

Within a military setup, he could take orders as well as issue

Chem, although he prefers the latter.. He can be systematic and:

methodical in his approach. He can work out a blueprint.or.

an

intricate undertaking and supervise its proper execution. : He will

qüickly and easily adapt to fluctuations in a situation and change

his tactics accordingly.

He is skillful in manipulating numbers, and he can think in

large

terms and transactions. Apparently, he is quite interested

in money: and he

seems to know how to get the best possible

advancage out of a financial transaction.

He possesses great facility in expressing himself orally and

In writing. He can make his points palatable and can be quite

convincing in his arguments.

Also, he can formulate his ideas

and purposes in different ways; depending on with whom he is

dealing.

He should have talert for learning foreign languages.

He te a gifted person who will exploit his talents in line with

the demands that are put before him. He also seems to have

physical training and skills.

He has a natural feeling for

form, sound and color.

He probably has developed artistic

appreciation and may have an artistic hobby, possibly music.

Emotionally, the writer is complex but fairly well balanced.

Innately impressionable and sensitive, he has hardened himself

in the course of his life in order to be less vulnerable.

has his feelings and impulses under fairly good control and avoids

being carried away by them

In his private life, though, he may

cend to be somewhat excitable and irritable. He is self-centered

and most interested in his personal advantage.

This is a trait

that he tries to cover up by being smooth and pleasing in his

dealings with people. He possesses natural psychological under-

standing and can be very diplomatic.

He manages to appear out-

going and social while basically he

is quite reserved and detached.

He seems

to avoid emotional involvements in order to preserve his

objectivily.

---

## Page 29

His appeurance is poised and sophisticated, and he knows

how to handle himself under different conditions.

Being an

independent and sophisticated individual, he has developed his

own philosophy and code of

ethics by which he lives. He does

cot seem to have any qualms about doing things that would not

be conventionally acceptable. He Is very broad minded about

himself and others, and he

detests pettyness, even

in wrong-

doing.

The purpose justifies the means for him as long as the

transaction

takes place on a large scale.

He is most skillful

in practicing various types of deception and he is quite adrott

In manipulating people and situations. He is very active and

could have "his fingers in a number of ples." He is emotionally

somewhat strained,

but he has sifficient stamina to support his

general functioning.

The writer is apparently an unusually talented person who

could function in different types of positions. He could be

military officer, a business executive, a politician, an intelli-

gence agent or he could be a diplomat. He would not be suitable

for any kind of routine work; bit he is well qualified for

mentally challenging assignments--the more chällenging the better.

He is a diligent worker

who is somewhat vain in showing off his

competence.

He likes to demonstrate how successfully he can

carry out a complicated and delicate job. Then he is willing

to accept an assignment, one can expect a high quality. of work

performance, but anybody who would expcct loyalty from him would

probably be disappointed.

TSH/ sE

October 3, 1966

01

coordi-

SEC

---

## Page 30

29 Auguat 1966

MEMORANDUM FOR:

Technical Services Division

Behavioral Äctivities Branch

SUBJECT

Request for Psychological Assessment

I Attached le a photographic copy of a letter which li

being submitted to your office for analysle of the handwrittng and

possible psychological ass

cament of the wilter. Unfortunately,

the original of this letter do not avallable. Hopefully the quallty

of the attached copy will be adequale for your purposes.

2. If any further information is reguired, please contact

Africa/5, Room 7c18, extension 5032.

Acting Chief, Africa/5

---

## Page 31

# AZPiH-2084

3. J.L, 66.

Des lilie

I Kur you will has been wrileng wher a greg se

let no to as shame not been able to signed 3 fle, the

I returned to Salihing where in fect if said no dice isth i?.

Ze, rec, id time and I safested in In he fole pouted is

Is then this quit apant foom the have and pant, in abilt, the

fish thes your ayadle, was tues to be is% minst be with

even thug in a taciness of tus native cant hai in terms 74:56.

you wave striddly shith loice as wind. as oi? Thig sail thir

woul contilar the mitter i was then loll that is had been cheated

To jes rid of 5' me voing on another and thes they wheld tiles is

luis you in a lot then al rain very pliand lui Met ar

/a.!

Rut licia demering fin the stat- and thas thee winitle

a sidoll fu dont a wels is there, os enforced deri

---

## Page 32

tail wadd ritu home lie as cos (o) unit tse the lunch,

his lake merange to say thes coll has tea, 7 2 55 3 cite

but that it is soil elfith, on te the mea tie if an ho

des hit along t to chich l have as offuton!

gene date to me in penal trio es to tittie pri contie

to the unterate wit whather you aprice of the live talen ne

lives in tich cans a wont be introdd to lenize

Now Sente he love to you Gole wid hagain to see

irf

is inher news the tock? Pin if time dint

---

## Page 33

CLASSIFY tO FILE:SO.

NUTFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

COPIE:

REPRODUCTION PAUHIBITEO

AMES

6F 2

clea

CRID COPY

d'ACE COPY

Our O..

T1 AucCS:.74712

UnKS

SECOST MISSSZ CITE

PRIORITY DIRECTOR, KISHASA,

INFO

SALE

TIDES

ZIBET: VIQUIT SECAROS SMOTH

ABSTRAC

REF DIRECTO? 26913

1O AT !I AUGUST MEETING, SMOTS CONFIRMED THEY MAD HAD INDIRECT

CONTACT WITH WICKS IN PAST, BUT THAT HE WAS UNWITTING SOURCE..

CONTACT MAN PRESENILY 'AVAILABLS, BUT THEY PLAN PUT HIM BACK IN

TOUCH WITH WICKS ABOUT 17 AUGUST, IN HOPE HE CAN SLICIT INFORMA-

TIO' AS TO MICKS' FUTURE PLANS, ETC.

2. MEA!WHILE SMOTH HAVE ASKED SPECIAL BRANCH DIRECTLY,

NOT THROUGH JAGUARS TO COVER WICKS, BÚT TO DATS THEY MAVE NOT

LOCATED HIM. WE UPCED THEM TO FOLLOW UP RETURN ADDRESS ON LETTER,

OFFERING MAXE AVAILABLE FLAT NEXT DOOR OCCUPIED 3Y FEMALE STATION

PESSONNEL AS OP IF DESIRED. ONE PROBLEM IS PRESUMPTION WICKS:

TRAVELLED O' VOK. PASSPORT, IM WRICH CASE IMMISRATION WILL HAVS

NO RECORD HIS ENTRY OR INTENDED ADDRESS.

HAVE ADDRESSES ANY

CLUE AS TO DOCUMESTATION ON WHICK WICKS TRAVELLING?

5701-831.202

3. MITHOUT TIDICATING ANY KUSULEDCE FUTURE PLANNING

SEGRET

REFLECTED REF, VE SPECULATED ALOU AT POSSIBILITY SECAR03/1

---

## Page 34

PAGE 2 LONDON SI23 SECRET

MISHT VISIT UK. PEARFUTURE, SINCE HE CONTINUED BE IN

CORRESPONDENCE WITH WICKS AND AS "KNOWy INTERESTED FIND

PUBLISHER FOR ROOK." BELIEVE WE WILL HAVE NO DIFFICULTY OBTAINING

SMOTH SUPPORT FOR WOFACT CONTACT WITH SECAROB/I SHOULD HE VISIT,

•BUT SMOTH WILL WANT TO KNOW AS EARLY AS POSSIBLE OF HIS TRAVEL

PLANS.

THIS ALSO APPLIES TO PETERS, SHOULD WE LEARN NE TO

SELIEVE WE SHOULD NOW KEEP SMOTH FULLY AND

PROMPTLY INFORMED ON ALL BRITISH PLAYERS IN THIS GAME, NOT ONLY

FOR USUAL REASONS SUT TO ENSURE THEY PUT OUT MAXIMUM EFFORT ON

?. COVERIVS THEM.

4.

WILL ADVISE SEPAPATELY RE EMERGENCY CONTACT INSTRUCTIONS

FOR SECAROB/1•

SECRET

BT

SECRET

---

## Page 35

cogging to vice

air. To may

DESTROY

Disso AfRi

BEI

ASSIFICO MESSAGE

SECRET

ASSA/NAIT AOTIFIED

TOTẠL COPIES

REPROQUETI IN PAOHIBITED

BIRD COPY O.... O.

FF.

168X D

SECRET 1M1343

CITE

PROFITY DIRECTOR INFO PRIORITY KINSHASA,

1i As 65: 74584

ROUTINEL

* At Lomes fee dices Ans acro

WICUIT SECAROB

REF: As

(v 24301)

9. DIRECTOS 26810*

WILL COMPLY REF E WHICH RECEIVED AFTER REF A SE LaST

SECRET

SECREE

A/sk

IP

MICROFILMED

ANG 19,1966

DOC. MiCRO. JER.

wiCKS

201-801702

18uG66

8201-346685

---

## Page 36

(35)

rise No.

16E6:1001

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

To rile

-#O.

SECRET

oral cooirs

REPRODUCTION PROMIBITEO

DISSEM BY#4

AFY

ORD COPY

UNIT

AF 190C €

OK, CS/A0; EURS, CT. CT/OPS, FT, FF/TNT2,

SECRET :101758Z CITE

PRIORITY DIRECTOR, KINSHASA INFO

10 Auc to 73951

ZISET WIQUIT SECAROB

REF A. DIRECTOR 26716

COEL-45, 3109 1.6

93843)

MICROFILMEO

C. KISHASA 1892 CIN 72211)

8.1966

DOC, MICRO. SER.

1. HAVE DISCUSSED WICKS PRESENCE LONDON WITH SMOIN AND

REQUESTED THEM ATTEMPT COVER HIS ACTIVITIES HERE ON BASIS COMMENTS

REF C. PLEASE NOTE FER REF B SMOTH HAVE BELATEDLY CONFIRMED

HIS INVOLVEMENT FROM SOURCE IN ENTIRELY DIFFERENT QUARTER•

2.

SMESPY HAS ACKNOWLEDCED UNOFFICIALLY THAT @gOTH HAS

HAD CONTACT WITH WICKS IN PAST AND IS NOW DEBATING WHETHER

APPPOACH HIM ON FRIENDLY BASIS STEMMING FROM PREVIOUS CONTACT

OR ASK JACUAR ATTEMPT COVER HIM FROM DISTANCE, MEETING 11 AUGUST

MISS MOURS TO DISCUSS FURTHER AND TRY HELP THEM DECIDE.

WOULD

APPRECIATE ANY FURTHER TIDSITS PASSABLE AT THAT TIME•

SECRET

ET

13- 901-346655

201-801901

io Gengiesfi966

---

## Page 37

CUBASSET

TO FILE NO:

rILe 4O.

die sord

orsinor O sic.

CLASSIFIEO NESSAGE: Q TITAR CORiES

SECRET

PERSOS

wabedae

REPRODUC

81SSEm B/- 24 PER 90-14

ANCH COPY

PF.))

X RID COPY

D.

CSI DO

2040₴ B

FILE, VE, OSTOO SUSPENSE AF, CPO EVRS, CAL CAPEE CRERIR CA/EU CI

iN PORIARDP 5006 CS/560, FISPE

:71600

INDINE KRISHASA PRIORITY DIRECTOR 195O|

3466%

VIRUIT 9304302

SCONDETE NAS RECRIVED LETTER 2R0N MICHS DARLO SI JULY

MARINI ADORESS, 3S MONTADUE SOUARE LONCON A SAYIRE DIORE MÃO TGCERUE2

MORD INAT HICKS REMAIUS OU FULL SALARY AND COUP DELAYEO FOR TOC

TURES MORENSO SECARORA SHOULO REPLY IN GEUZZAL TERUS IF NE STILL

II HO SUOIA CI SEIZISIT GJISOUOINI SUA DI SEICA 170C2.O3S

JILYA DIO TOT TARE NEGATIVE ATTITUDE

328170341 S3aUESTS GUIDAICE

ON CONTENT HIS REPLY TO HICKS.

MANHILE :S TAILING WICKS LETTER TA PRETORIA.

A. ADSITIONAL DEVELOPEENI, POSSIBLY PERTINENT TO SICARO2/1

PCO LO DE LINGE WITH HICKE, CECHR03/1 DUS AUGUST RECEIVED ERON

CO I TINI TO LOO, PROMISE MIT SECON LESE SONOR

5. SOOAR0R/1 BOOK TURNEO DOUN RETURNED FROM PUSLISHER S

AUG I13T.

ADVISE.

3 Z

C

---

## Page 38

moen (1Es no

CLASSIRY TO RILR NO POIGSGIIC AN

bLLSSIFDED MESSAGE

TOTAL COPirS

23

*-"Le TO LILe s0 1. 2- 9311

mie o0

TO DOAS" E

SECRET

EEDO CE CTICE PROMICITED

Desgnoy Osic. (10

PERSOTIUTAT CTIFIEO

- B, q

ADVANCE €OPY

TATO

c/AE 4

ORD COPY

Ooone Ouoro O.t

FILE

VR.

c/c1 c/cas g/Fi2

c/ 303 3

erlurta aDDe sse

26 Juxs 63928

SE C R E T 2612556 CITE

RiaSOTOR IIFO

E YOAT VIGUIT

REF

DINECTON 20I5- A

2RICiVA LaME 20 d ALTUTAM HICO LEF Lac Hezi Cur

TWO "E" VISI LOOY

missIon onbort

GECRET

1REGSESE CONROY ATPNT THOSEN

CONCO;

FMOSrIi

DT

WASH B/C 3015:

HQS SIGCEY- NOT AUEORIZRD

AUTOMATICALLY RILAY TEIS

MSC TO "LCINOA

FOSVARD FORM 12 IF RETAY

REQUIRED .

SEGKEI

WUICAS

1Y

137

---

## Page 39

NAME

A ROMAN LITTERS

Alastair WICKS

ALIASES, SAIANT SPELLING. CIC BUMERS, PIC.

•SURNAME

SECRET

1A UPPER CASE

3. DATE AND 'PLACE OF BIRTH

CITIZENSKIP

Rhodesian, South African, British

5: PRESENT ACTIVITY AND LOCATION

Mercenary In the. Congo

6. OCCUPATICNAL SPECIALTIES, EDUCATION

T. FAST. ACTIVITIES

INCLUDING

MILITARY, SERVICE:

ACTIVITY

Hercenary

REQUEST FOR GREEN LIST

NAMF CHECK NO 1.

89Y0

11412666

TO

CHIEF, FI/D

GRIGIDATING. OFFICER.

OFFICE DESIGNATOR

ROOM, BUILDING

EXTENSION

AF/5

7C-18

5032

13: TYPE OF

REQUEST (CHECK ONE)

I FiRST TIME SUBMITTED

O ADDITIONAL DATA

• RECHECK FOR CURRENT

14.

INTEREST IT SUBJECT (CHECK ONE!

ESPIONAGE OR CE ACTIVITY

• OPERATIOMAL CLEARANCE

OTHER

LOCATION

"DATES

Congo

Aug 64-present

8. OTHER SIGNIFICANT DATA (POLITICS, RELIGION) - ADD EXTRA SHEETS WHEN NEEDED

9. DESCRIPTIOY

(NEIGNT,

1O. SPOUSE ATF WIFE, GIVE MAIDEN NAME

(WEIGHT)

(EYES)

(HAIR)

(RALE)

(OTHER)

OTHER MEMEERS OF IMIEDIATE FAMILY AND ASSUCIATES

12. INFORMATICE REQUIRED (DEFINE SPELIFICALLY.

NOT FULLY MEET REQUiREMENTS.) TERMS SUCH AS "DEROGATCR:" MAY RESULT IN A SEARCH THAT DOES

ADy

INSTRUCTIONS: SEND BOTH SHEETS TO FI/D.

INSERT. CARBON: FILL OUT FORMS COMPLETELY.

00w 601

SECRET

SEE CS: 10-7

---

## Page 40

•SECRET

28 July 66

DATE

TO:

FROM:

FI/D

Đ.

C.

D.

SEE DOSSIER G SUQUECT IM ELD BISGOPHIC FILES. Revieved by you 27 Jal 66.

A MENURAMOUM iS ATTACHED. MERETO.

MITH THE LIMITED IDENTIFICATION SOVIDED IN THE RECUEST. FU/D IS UNABLE TO

DETERMINE WHETHER THERE IS INFOAMETION ABOUT INE SUBJECT OR NOT:

FITO HAS NO PERTIDENT INFORMATION ON SUBJECT. IF INFCRMATION ABOUT THE

SUBJECT: APPEARS aT A LATER DATE, - IF MILL BE REPORTED TO YOU AS IT BECORES

AVAILABLE.

THE SUBJECT OF TAIS RÉQUEST IS APPARENTLY THE SUBJECT OF THE FOLEDWING:

NOTE TO THE CRIGIMATING OFFICE

WHEN THE SUBJECT IS NO LONGER IMPORTANT TO YOUR OFFICE, THIS SHELT. MITH THE FOLLCHING CANCELLATION

NOTICE COMPLETED.

SHOULD BE SENT TO FIID.

REVIEW YOUR FILE OF THESE SHEETS FREQUENTLY, AND SEND TO FI/D THE SHEETS FOR FERSONS THAT ARE NO

LONGER OF SUFFICIEST INTEREST TO DEMINO A CONTINUING NAME CHECK.

PLEASE DO NOT

TIE UP FA/D'S

FACILITIES WITH CCUTIQUING SEARCHES FOR INFORMATION IMAT IS NOT REQUIRED.

TO:

FROM:

FI/D

DATE

NAME

CEFICE DESIGAATOR

ROOM, BUILDING

EXTENSICE

CANCEL THE STOP CARD FOR THIS REQUEST

SECRET

---

## Page 41

MOSS

336

DEE

36,722.3

UNar

900000000

10:0 07 0 0.0

00030000

IP/EIS

REQUESTER IDENTIFICATION GARD

Enclosed are the APERTURE CARD(S) for documents) you requested.

ROOM

GA 10

PHONE

22451

362

THE REGULT

3-E-C-H-I-T (WHEN FILLED BUS:

ay: corese

99 58 80 41 09 13 80 89 68 87 48 8

---

## Page 42

SECRET

tyson Cas.

2m3/55

O RID COPT

SECRET 1507:3Z CITEE

AMEDIATE KEISMASA LUFO INMEDIATE DIRECTOR,

156 wH97949

RYBAT MICULT

RET: DIRECIOR 19340

15 JuL 661.57044

1O ETERS PHONZO HORRE 14 JULY FROM SALISBURY WITH PROPOSITION

HOAPE TO RECEIVE 22, 009 POUNOS FOR

SIX MOHTH CONTRACI, ETC. TASX

WOLLO DE COORGINATION DE MILITARY SFFORE IN KATANGA AGAINST REACTION

BY ANCO RANK FILL COLOGEL. HORRE STALLED MAITING ARRIVAL MIGHELL

WITH REF CUIDANCES

--2 WICKS CLAIMEO LE ATTEMPIINS POSTPONF COUP UNTIL 27 JULY TO

PERMIT RECRUITMENT ADDITIONAL TERCEMARIES SO AS ELIMINATE NECESSITY

FELLANCE DU PETERS. MICKS REGISTORED KENTUCKY HOTEL SALISBURY. PETERS

DEL ISERAT LOTS ON AD NOC SASIS.

•SO HOARE ACCEPTED REF GUICNICE EVENING LA JULY, STATED THIS

CAUCARMEO HIS UNOSASTARDINS COPNE POSITION AND HE WILL NOT ACCEPT

VICKS PROPOSITION.

PERITEO OUE PERSONAL LOYALTY TO PUAN PARAMOUNT

JISPITE GLITTERISO OFFER.

HOREVER KIS FINANCIAL POSITION HAS

JETERIORATEO RAPIOLY AND HE NOT IN NEED SOME ASSISTANCE®

FORRE

c.?3

---

## Page 43

1E AVAILABLE FOR GUY TASKS TO COUNTER COUP.

SO: HOARE STATED LE COUP TO PROCESO 17 JULY, MICKS AND PETERS WILL

RETURN JOKINGGPURO IS JULY AND DEPART JAN SMUTS ALEFORE 16 JULY WITH

FORTY TURDE ER-S COMMANDO TYPES RECRUITED CHANNESSING SINCE 4

viLi

COPIED TO GAGING ATLA MA TIRINKE

a CALLer

HOARE SURGESICO KISHASA TURORM MOBUTU OF PLOI, IN ORCER TO

MAVE I SIDE MNS PEAR ROBUTU, KINSHASA COULD SUGGEST MONITU SEND SCARE

REQUEST VISIT MIM AT ONCE OR HE COULO CO TO MODUTS ON DUN INITTATIVE.,

¡DARE SOULD ASE COBUTE DISTANO S COMMANDO AT ONCE IN VICH THEIR

DISLOYALTY, PETERS® PACKETS, PAYMENTS TO FICTIIOUS MEN, MURDER OF VAN

OPPES AND BURCIRIT, STEALING OF PI ZOAT, ETC. THIS: DISBANDMENT

VITAL TO MORUTE SECURITY ANO AS SAFEGUARD AGAINST REPEAT PLOT.

NOULD RECOMMEHO PEPLACE S COMMANDO ANO POSSIBLY E COMMANDO WITH NEW

GENDARMERIE FORCE RECRUITED 1E GOKA

ROARE COULD DO THIS AND SITESO

TO: INITIAL TRAININO, EIC. MOBUTU WOULD LUGRATIATE HERSELF WITH DAU

0Y 6155:2510 6661011: 110 MAlES.

on sian?

ALLEGIANCS TO MODUTS.

SINILAR MARINE UNIT COULD BE RECRUITSO.

6. ROARE ADDEO TIE MALUDA WILL REVOLT IN RETALIATION FOR XIMBA

EXECUTION IF TOMONDE SUCCEROS. ALSO, BELIEVES UMMY FUNDS DEPOSITED

---

## Page 44

RISE 3

SECE: : SLURET

7.

M02UI0S 1S JULY MOIRE PHONED MIGTELL TO ADVISE NE TALKED TO

VICKS IN SALISBURY PREVIOUS NIGHT TURNED DOG VICKS PROPOSIEION

BUT DID NOT BUIORATE.

LICKS SAID PETERS MAS PULLED OUT AND IS IN

LONDE PLATING FOR COUP CONTINUES TO PROCEED SALISBURY, TARGET

DATE NOX ZI GULY, NO INDICATION ANY PLANS FOR MOVEMENT RECRUITS

FROM JUNGE SSUURO AS PETO

SO NO JURTHER INFO ON ROLE MALUMBA, IDEMS OTHER MAJOR CONGOLESE

FIGURES INVOLVED, OR DEGREE INVOLVEMENT SOVEREIGN GOVERNMENIS IN PLOT.

PARTICIPATION SOLTH AFRICA AND RHODESIA GOVERUGENTS BEING HANDLED BY

SECURITY SERVICES AS INDICATED.

PROOF OF OFFICIAL PARTICIPATION

LACKIUG.

URDE UTMOST PROTECTION HOARE AS SOURCE SINCE HIS POSITION

AS L. Ko

CITIZEN IN SOJIN AFRICA MOST TENUOUS.

5 .

SECRET

•3%

CS COMMENT: eleganis Station to express to Hoare ines appreciation for

information on coup piarning and forwards a curber of reasons for ODYCKE !!)

polin; remainine in seppore of a grified and stabie Conco for jabeide lo dinare.

SECRET

---

## Page 45

SECRE

DOCUSEE WIT

TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCI

SLIPATEN

OATE PROCEEDED

DoCU

POTINEAL INI

WICKS, ALASTAIR

201-801702

SEX M 0Ce 7

2012275639

CRASH: 00402

HE JUL: 66

ACA -00145

CIT

OCC

P2

FORMER

MAJOR IN FIFTH COMMANCE WHO

RESIGNED FROM. FIFIM COMMANOL

IN DEC 65.

RE ALLEGED PLANS FOR CUUP LOETAT CY FORMER

CONGOLESE PRIDE MINISTEN MUISE.

iSHOrbE

INVOLVING FIFTH COMMANDU MENCENANDES.

A 6669221054

ACEACBALPAHSGABCEL

FILE IN 201-2611L.2

FiLE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

:867

SECRET

17. 48#

---

## Page 46

IV

naminadi

C9-311/05210-33

1 darck 2985

MEERENCES

cc...

=

2

sca

32

ail

:C.

Coumes

COud

in a total de sinnt hercenant aidghts had seon

tre Congo Sinde cne sike= ca

12aY conendes c5 25.

15T01 Courg

the

mica

5

si to ba undontaren.

6..

so cosh gegessarea die is rou engugea.

---

## Page 47

CLASSIGILD MESSAGE

SECRET

Bis Out Ou

WICHATICALLY SAY THI

MES TO DE

POND FOCK IZ IF RELAY

MATRED

SECRET 2813452

28F6164278

DiR IsFOl

(SPAUS ACTING)

1. ASSISTANT ARMA LEOPOLOVILLE VISITED OFFICE 23 PES PURSUANT

TO ACSI RECUEST FOR BI ON MICHAEL HOARE AND ALLISTER UTCKS. REQUESTED:

REFERENCE NUMBERS ANY BI WE HAD SENT IN SO HE COULD PASS THEN TO ACSI•

TOLD HIM WE HAD NO SUCH BI, BUT RECALLED THAT PRESS HAD CARRIED

CONSIDERABLE INFO ON HOARE BACKGROUSD WHICH MIGHT BE AVAILABLE

AI XUBARK HEADQUARTERS.: AS FORWICKS, WE UNDERSTOOD HE RHODESIAN,

BUT HAD NO INFO OTHER THAN FACT HE INVOLVED IN AIR LIFT OF MERCENARIES.

2. VISIIOR

SAID HE PROCEEDING DURSAN AND MIGHT CONTACT HOARE

WHILE THERE.

SECRET

CEN MOSE ARMA LEOPOLDVILLE ZE FEB AOSI SE MICHAEL HOARE ALLYSTER

VICKS BY ASSI NO SUCH DU INTO HOARE XISTAN RHODESIAN DE INGO

DO BAN

28 Feb: 66

201-346685

SECRET

is + 900091801-29

---

## Page 48

as com

0hie200

Sa C2 ET 2212102

1*

220.3

21 34 62553

70/9903

racist for unt. is ties comer.

S550 LE RECILLED THAT EEPLORE SETS DISARA DESAD 1 JANLARY

TOES. NO APPENDILY IS BASINS TUES OU PEE Z49 EU URICE SE POSITED

OLE ID INTENDED QUET ON 31: DEC, IND SEST RECLESTED BY KLOARK LEOP

DAS.!0 JANUARY 19350 U:LESS ADVISCO TO CONTRARY FLAU TO PAY HS1

S9,503 LISS S150 AS TOTAL SCALERIE OF A CLARISS

2. SCOREDO FOR PIEM SO REVIEU DAY POLECUERON SY NEI. VE

DISCUSSED HIS 3O0K UHICH LUST SE SB:ITID 70 FIZLISTERS EY 31

MITCH. IT UELL HOT INVOLVE CONSO FOLITICS ND IS VILL NOT PIVE

"ONS NAN THENG TO CY ABOUT ANYONE LE TOLSO PEELINARY

RIVE OF OUTLINE MO PROBRESS CE SCOT LASSOUT 3IRIS USSES 10 33

SUNS TITTIE DOES NOT GET INTO FINAL STOES VITE SCARINENS OBJECT-

IONBLE REQUIRILO TOTAL RE-URITE. UE VILL DO FRAL REVISU PRIOR

SLEMIESION MIRUSCIRT

---

## Page 49

CURSPED MESSAGE

SECRET

3. WES PERSONEL PLAGS OTHER TIL CONDON SCOR DE TO SAEL SO

STASO IS OVER IN 1966 TO SUIL ACROSS ENLARISS TO VEST MOTESE

AS FLOR DA.

40 RE UARIED HEI SHIT, LIDER NO CERCINSTICES LAS IS TO GET

¡VOLVED IN REDESIAN APSALAS AND THIS HOLIDED UY RECRUMENTS,

TRAINING OR ANYTHINS ELSE. ME AGREED. URTEOUT ANY EDICATION OF

ANY POSSELS FUTIES USE BY US, UE ASTO HER DA IS PEOST PE LUTCRESTED

AT CAY COS IN TIC FUTURE IN TRANG BEUCO? CLARERA TYPE ACT-

JUTIES, YE SAID THAT HE THOLSHE IS BESET. UNILE THIS DISCUSSION

DAS TOO VAGUE TO PLAN ON, US THINE HE LOLLD DO MERLE BOXERENG LES

ASID MIN 30•

TRE SEEMS TO KAVE BEEN SOC

STURE TO TELL ME GOODATO ME SND TIST E DID NOT ASS TO SEE

LOSURU. UICKES VANTED TO SEE LOSUTU AID ATTER CONSIDERESLE LAENG

SUBIS TO POUIS AND ASIDO IF ROBUTU VOULD SEE UICKES.

POUIS

ANS.CARD NO SINCE NCSUU LAS VERY DISTE POUES TOLD S TAT EE COULD

I GO IN CUT SA MS IS SINS SCH CHI

LUNCHEON AFTER BOSUTU YAD TAKEN OVER AS SEO03%. NICHES VAS

VERY RED AND TOOK A BUNDLE OF PARESS FOR ROSUTU TO SIS I CROLE

CES 20 SIR HAS. UICKES JAS REFUSED ADHERCANCE. SECASO3 WAS

COTTTETOAY RELATED ON EDICT, COLD IS POSSELY REVE BEEN THIS

ESOUR LECIES, IN LEGS 2563, IF NOT HE CEMETELY HAS RECONSIDERZS

HIS VIS

Post.

S IS NOT. INTERESTD IN RETURNING TO CONSO AT THIS TINE. US

SECHET

---

## Page 50

JED MESSAGE

SECRET

NEZUEPAGE

CESSARLIE GEPEAR TO SS ISSOLLTELE FINAL JA DROSS SO DOT LISERCUT

TILTS LOULD RETURN, PETERS COULD NOT SE ASLE TO CONTROL TIC

DESS. HIS LESLE DISCUSSION ZIDECISED TET IT INVISIONS THAT

1E 14Y PETEN.

SACRIARISS TEROL A 3Ì DEC GUT LE DE NOS KISS 89U THINGS VOULD

co ArTza THAT.

1. SECARCO VAS HIGH IN HIS PRAISE OF MES CASE OFFICER UNDE

BE RECARDED AS VERY PELPFUL AND PEERSTICO AGE BEING ASLE TO BID

FARQUELL, TO COS LSOP.

3AS AN ASIDES CALTIONED THAT WAG FE CELIEUED TO DE LEOP'S

VEEU TENT ROSUTO UNS FRIENOLY TO ELSERS IS USONS. NS STATED THAT

KE INO HEARD ROSUSU TALE TOO OFTEN FOR TRUNE SO BE ANY COLET THAT

IE DOSS NOT LIKE RIDARKO SHAS NO IDEA WHAT DAS DASES OF THIS

DISTINE IS SO THINES THAT' IT IS PROSIDLY A SCLITOR-SEACTION TO

DIE GAZAT SERVICES TRIT RUBARK LAS RENDERED TO TIE CONGO. LE SAID

TIAT THIS VAS A PECULIARITY OF LOSURU'S CHARACIER.

9. S DOES NO: AT ALL INCLUDE POSSISILIZY ISHONDE BECCHING ONE

0F NCBUTU"S MINISTERS. HE SAID TILT ECOULU MAS DEEN ACCEPTING SOME

¿OVICE AND GUIDANCE FROM ISOLDE. AS TO RASIVOU, S FRELS THAT RE

LSO HIGLE AT A LATER DATE 23C013 & WINISTER LIDER NOSETU EVEN.

-TEOUS BE APPEARS TO DE FINISED AT THES TIE. LE BELIEVES THAT A

IT 5 CUR THE ME MISE MEN ME CON FOR TEE

CO:30.

10.

S'S SON HAS COUPLETELY RECOVERED, SOUZUER, SINS HAD A

SEVERE ATTACK

OF BALARIA.

SECRET

---

## Page 51

USDAC, DOCLE

DATE 811 Dece

SUE ECTS AIGiS, Alister

CLASSIFICATION::

SCRET

TILE CLASSI ICATIONS NOt listed:

SUBJECT: Not listed

THIRD AGENCY

---

## Page 52

STATE DOCUMENT

DATE:

18 Nov 65

47180

FROM:

ANCONGEN JORANNES:

CLASSIFICATION:

FILE NO:

UNCLASSIFIED

BURG

NOT LISTED

SUBJECT:

SOUTH AFRICAN MERCENARIES IN THE

CONCO:

THIRD AGENCY

---

## Page 53

SECRET:

CINGO CLEO

• 97 JEF

20 SP .5

Intelligence Information Cable,

• PRICEIT!

$10

14425009441156-85

28 SEPTEMER 1965

MEER 1965

SITRO AS OF O6OO HOURS LOCAL TDE

AN COO CONGO, ALBERIVILLE

MẠO BOỆ MA AC 3936

THIS IS PA ALBERTILE SITUATION REART PREPARED AT O600 HOURS LOCAL TIE ON

28 SEPTEPED, 1965 0% CAS.

61285

CAL TE SEPT NO & COLD DE IME CITIN COAMANDOS IS L00) .

PENCHES LUNGA ANO WAS AREPARINE TO LOVE TONIRDS LUBONDUE ON 26

SUPTO HIS COUR LIO BE PUR AUSTEDA NICKES HAC3 OF ITS

#EN ROGER DU IRRE INE SONOMIN FROM SONDERA TO LUL IMES (SOURCES

PILOT UNTIERING, CONDOLESE DUNFOTE DIGERATI HAVE MADTHE CILY.

CONTACT MBiH TNE FIF iM COG SINCE dO SEPI):

ZO iN Li SEPTO iNVURSE ARIDiCE PILOTS VaSERiCO $ 5 CLO

sr..

ECRET

Ario tha

Ast

000: 50

---

## Page 54

SECRETI

144330

THO CHESSACE

SECRET

---

## Page 55

SECRET

IN GI285

TDCI: 314/13353-6S PACE

UNIT WAS LATER SEEN LEAVING SARAKA APPARENTLY WITH THE INTENT OF

UNLOADING BANGES MUCH WERE ARRIVING NORTH OF BARAKA. ¡SOURCES

PILOT DEBRICHINGS).

30 ON Z7 SEPT A FATAC C-4Y LIPCRAFT ARRIVED IN ALBERTVILLE

TO SIPPORT THE ANC OFFONSIVE AGAINST THE CONCOLESE REBELS NORTH

OF ALBERTVILLE. THIS AIRCRAFT WILL BE USEO TO RESUPPLY ISOLATO

UNITS INU TO DROP SURRENDER LEAFLETS. FOUR, 7 TON TRUCKS, MAVE

ALSO BÉON MADE AVAILABLE TO OPS SUO: TO CARAY SUPPLIES FROM.

ELIZABETHVILLE TO ALBERTVILLE (SOURCES LT COL HARDIENNE PRINCIPAL

ADVISOR TO OPS SUD).

40 ON 25 SEPT 1965 THE TOWN OF LUSANGI FOLL INTO REBEL MANDS:

NO DEFINITE INFORMATICA WAS AVAILABLE AS TO THE SIZE OF THE

ATTACKING FORCE OR THE WHEREADOUTS OF THE DEFENDING ANC TROOFS.

(SOUACES HARDIONNE).

50 ON 27. SEPT 1965 TWO SCHALI CITIZENS WERE ARRESTED AT THE HOTEL

DULAGO. IN ALBERTVILLE. THIS HOTEL SERVES AS THE PRINCIPAL BILLET

FOR THE FUROPEAN ADVISORS TO THE ANC IN ALBERTVILLE. IME SOMALIS

: PAPERS WERE FOUND TO BE IN ORDER AND THEY WILL PROBASLY 'BE

RELEASED ON 28 SEPT.

5... ON 27 SEPT I9UO, THE OPS SUO ADVANCED HEADQUARTERS MLARS

In MOVE TO SENDERA AI THIS SAME TIME THE NINTH COMMANDO BATTALION

IS TO MOVE FROM LULIMEA TO MAKUREU AND KAISHOKA, THO DAYS LATER

THE FIFTH INF ENDS TO COAMENCE ITS JOVANCE FROM SENDERA TO MAXUACU,

SECHEY MIGU AND MADIMBA. (SOURCE:

HARDIENNE) •

---

## Page 56

so Des Baa

LLASSIFIEO MESSAG

SECRET

HER PEONIG

asii

& RID COPY

FILE, VR. 5006

SECRET 27 SSI?

CREDITE DIR DO LSCP L

M050,

MAJOR WIRES FiVE OO XO PETURNED FROM LEOS AND REPORTED TO

Sternor"

AND TROOpS AT fULL MUStER FOULCUING:

A GENERAL NOCURU RODSPIDER FIVE CRE PROBLEMS SOLVED.

CAUSIVE COO TAY SYSTEM MAS SEEN EFFECTED W-EPE PAY

CHOM 10E TRICKE TO ALBURG BACK TRUS COMPLETELY

TWO PICT H SNID WIRES YOULD PERMIT VERIFICA-

2.::60A5091 THEN CUMENCED TO TACOPS ME HAS COMPLETELY

THE DOCCUTES GORA PACHERNE DU EAS TIME TO GET CH

223A48-4953A05 130001104

MORE CHOOSED NES CARESSACTION PATVATELY TO

!!":

37÷56

1oo Orin? ToO 3:

2843

3:-49?-1 SECARDE-I MAZUTIS

---

## Page 57

terence Q

CLASSETIED US AGE

SECRET

RERRODUETION

AC YI OR

dar

CoPi

BIRD COPY

D. 0..

MULA COA SOME EUN

SECRET 2711482

IMMEDIATE DIR INFO LEOP [

CITE:

SECAROB

27 6 65 #407 46

REF DIR 38395

- REF MESSAGE PASSED TO SECAROB-1 (CI) BY MAZUTIS AT 1002,

27 AUGUST. SI AGREEABLE VATE DO TAXE NO FINAL ACTION ONTE. GUTHMAS

RETURNS:

2. MAJOR VICES DUE I

JIACeZ, 27-AÜGUST WITH REPORT HIS LEOP

MISSICH CONCERNING PAY POSOLVE CAS RCVDS. SI INTENDS REFORE THIS

VORD TO TROOPS IMMEDIATELY THEREAFTER. WILL ADVISI IMMEDIATE SI

AND TROOP REACTION.

SECRET

C FN: 0.26,7

39395 SECAROB-I SI MAZUTIS 11GQZ 27 SI NO FINAL GUTHMAN

MAJOR WICKES ALAV IABEZ 27 LEOP DOSOLVE AS ROVD S! SI

B T

---

## Page 58

0. 040

CLASSICLED MISSAES

163:

SECRET

45

DEPRSOLCTION PROMIBITED

I RID COPY

we Don C..

At

124 66

TIE VE, SUSPENGE AF, CSDO, MAP, WER SODE, CAR, CAPEL CHOCI,

CALLA, CVORS CUlICa, FI, FElOn, FilINer, Ellse, 102

ECRET 2613532

PRIORITY DIS INTO PRIOSITY L

CITE LEOP 0776 CLAMPRIGHT ACTING)

3/004

SECAROB

26 As Sm40040

1 COL WILLTAMS INFORMED STATION THAT ON MORNING 26 AUGUST

LOGTEST AND HAUCR WICKES HELD MEETING VITH MOBUTU RE STA CONDO:

PAY PROBLEM. AFTER APRANGING FOR LOAN FROM DIRECTOR RATION BANX

PDELE, MOBUTU CALLED IN PAY MASTER NO MADE ARRANGEMENTS PAY SOME,

IRISPECIFIED, PORTION OF OUTSTANDINS PAY IMMEDIATELY, WICKES THEN

VENT TO BANK TO INSURE THAT TRANSFER OF FUNDS TO JOHANESBURG WAS

MADE. FILLIAMS FELT THIS ONLY STOP GAS MEASURE AND PROBLEM LIKELY

COME UP AGAIN IN A FEW WEEKS.

2. WILLIAMS ALSO SAID THAT 80 MERES KILLED SO FAR IN CONGO AND

SOVT ORDICATED PAY FAMILIES ONE MILLION BELGIAN FRANCS FORBEACH

• DEATY.

ALTHOUGH CONGOLESE BUDGETED FOR DEATHS THEY

PID NOT BELIEVE

DEATH RATE WOULD BE SO HIGH..

•3. WILLIAMS INFORKED HIS PEP ALEW 26 AUG TO NOTIFY HOARE.

VICKES MAS PROBABLY NOTIFIED HOARE CITECTLY.

a. PLS PASS ABOVE TO GUTAMAN.

---

## Page 59

SE CRET

SECRET

IN 40041 Pros 2

CEN ET16 COL WILLIAMS 26 LOGIEST MAJONICKES MOSUTU RE STH CONDO

NOELE MORETU

VICKES JOHANESBURG VILLIAMS A VILLIAMS BO MERCS

ONE MILLION: BELGIAN FRANCS CONGOLESE NTR BELIEVE VILLIANS ALBU

26 AUE HOARE WICKES HOARE PLS GUTIMAN

ĐT

---

## Page 60

87 ANS 05.

M73

Intelligence Informanion Cable

BAT OF 1

23 MOdE 2963

059:16 AIR 1963 2

DAN ACO COSDO, MONEYLES (ES LOCAT 1969)

PEASAL A COUNTER DEPICAL OBSENDA MOI TRO COL ADORARE EA

So. C8 25 Mour 1963 13. CoL 1

3, 000

SO NDA SAPISTACTION ME CY NURUSE, IS NEVA DO SO LAURO

тив ст 29 мосы

SONS SAD DAN DE VILL LUNA SIX CONCO DE 2 BUSIN, NONE SAD TIDE 10S

FIDE JERSTRATO CARIN MIRCUTE SER MATES BE JAS MARS TO BETEL

2. BANE ALDO ORATIO TA EE JAS ISELITON SAT BES DONE LI COCUS.

SECRET

SLATE/THE

---

## Page 61

16 3350

SECRETS

BE PANTALO NESPOMIDCE DO SONIE CIOSA SVARIAZ OY MA TORTILA MARI

ISTIA O

DO TERLO MASOU BRUS ANS (ASTICIE COCIA) CHIORAMA COLDO SOC

ispanis, L

SECREV

1º :

---

## Page 62

SECRET

COLiTTY

NO

Intelligence Information Cable

no conus 14 309168

"I AUGUST 196S

* PRIORITT

012d

1DC3:314/11579

DOTS 23 AGUST 1563

DAT DO CONCO, APERMLE CA AGUST 198S)

PRO SPORT NO

AMNONE A COPTION MERICAN DESERVE PRON LT. COLDA MAMA MONAS

ACA: 29:

1: ON ZE AUGUST 1965 T COL MICHASE MONRE, CO CE THE LUFTH

COMANCO, STATES HE MAD PAST MECCIVED A MESSACE FRON HAVOR GENERAL

MCGUTU TO THE EPTECT THAT MOBUTY PLANNED TO CRE TO ALOSRIVILIE

2I AUGUET TO DISCUSS FIRM COMICO PAY PRORLOS. HOASE NOTED.

HOWEVER THAT MOTTU FREGUENTLY DID NOT RECT HIS ANONISES INQ THERE

PORE HORRE WAS SENDINO HIS DEPUTY, MAJOR ALISTAR WICRS, TO

LEPOLOVILLE. WiCKS ON 23 AUOUST HILL PRESCHT SPUT. WITH PAY

AUTHCRIZATION FORES FOR HORUTUS SICHATURE, NEARE SAID LE ACCUTE

OR OTHER APPREPRIATE OFFICIALS HAS NOT SIANCO THE DAY AUTHDAiZATICAS

•SECRET:

SATIRE OR ONIA MAN ANCE RUDO MA DE AS ON 00 ON 00 00

---

## Page 63

1t.

NO ARRANGED FOR TRANSFER OF PONIES LY 27 ARUST, TONRE FILE

MAVE TO INFORM HES MEN THAT ME MO NO INCA WASH TISTS DE

HOARE FURTHER STATED MAT NE COULD NOT SENTINE TA SAXE

MIS ON PROMISES AND HAD TOLD THE HE WOULO MAVE A DEPARE ANSWERE

ABOUT THEIR PAY SY 28 AUGÜST AT THE LATEST MARE COMER THAT.

HE DRECTS A LOSS OF APPOXMATCLE SOON I INE T AURIZANNO

ARE NOT SISASPE

AND ME CANDY WONESTLY TELL THE MEN THAT MONEY EL

VILL SCAN EE DEPISITED TO THEIR SOUTH AFRICAN ACCHANTS,

STIELO DISSOMIESTATE ARMY CATTACHE COMISH) CINCACA SA ALSON

SENT

---

## Page 64

SECRET

Dimio coar

Eliar

1 816

AF 3110 DO

39163

LeIT

924"

5707

"SHT COXPLETELY ALSO".

TRO DELTEVE OLE EU PEFINIRELY UNDER

O SEUNG YOT DE IO? TYEN TUE US VOULO

ALEVATE MEE PROCLEMA IN ADDITION

ESTELES ELO CHULD RESULT IN DIS-

CONTA HOT GOULAT FUNDING SE CONSICERED

•THE DOTE IS REVISES BY THE

---

## Page 65

1:D

24-0

LASSIPICO MEXICE

SECRET

PETRODUCT ION PROM GITEO

145ad

TITi

D RID COPIES:

0. PF 15% 9

5E+94: 1913002

PREOR DRY RESP DER INFO, CITE

9-BR7 SEE-SCO

8-1

CORASITES

Conf

to fellen

2040065 # 36558

13 AUGUST HEROA

THAT

WHISA COL ALLIAMS MAD

• STATED THAT IF SI DEMANDS A PAYMENT OF

SO PRIES WERE NOT MET IN NEXT SEVEN GAYS AUD HE DECIDED TO LEAVE

THE CORDS, EAGE "TE ANER!CASWOULS FULL OUT COMPLECELY ALSO""

GRU FEROCCO DATEULT TO RELIEVE DID SE DEFINTTELY UNDERESTHLE

iMPRECS:OH

67012

HIS. DEMAND

HES TRE! THP 115157828

tea Tra

-dAt

MI LEVIATE THE ORABLEM.

111541.

antist at

ERAS AND NOTED IT AS TOP SECRET.

THE PAYMENT UF THE FIFTH COMMANDO MERCENARIES

: COGTINUING PROBLEM AND COULD RESULT IN DISA

HIT, COULD NOT LUVER? FUNDING BE CONSICERED

PLE DEME CANTL A WORKARLE PAYMENT SYSTEM IS DEVISED BY THE

CONSOLENT MALES POLITICAL PITAALLS JAVOLVED JUT /EDOUS/SOTALLY

INTEREGTOR TO XGERING THE

FIFIN COMMAND IN CONGO, SOONER OR LATER

MAVE TO RE FACED.

---

## Page 66

15

# ?'

CFR: 0240

SEgARS3/1 51

3:9:8

AL-+

5 2599*

¿FE NOT MET

CONGO AMERISMSI NOT BE US KEIGHLORE SI MAJOR VICKS A NOT COVERT

A CONGOLE CONGO

ST

---

## Page 67

RS: 1000

SECRET

2 Jul

then: Flac

COUNTRY

* DẢN CP:

Intelligence Incormation Cable

4357-27

CONGO CLEOPOLOViLLEN SETH AFRICA

DC3: 314/09208-65

JUNe 1965

OLSTR

ReL 193S

SCUM A CATE CONNE UNPATION On

DAT ACO CONCO, ALTERIVILE (10 ME 1965)

ANDY

•N 03075

AS COME ON MENCO CONNED FROM MUOR DISAS WICKE ETING COMMONE

TEMPORARPICO TIS

SOUTN AFRICAN CIETH CONNONDO (SCOOL CITED GUTTERLY THE MITICEANA

OF THE SIOTH COMMANDO PERSONACL

AT THE TIME OF THE ARSIYRE OF

PERSONNEL OF THE (SCDS) TA

EARLY UNE 19OS, A STATO HIS DELOPEN AS MARANCE

NECESSARY FOR MI, TO RESPONO TO LOCAL CONDOLESE PONY, (AXI,

REQUESTS FOR ASSISTANCE AND SUPPORT IN THE ER VARLAN

-THIS SA

CONTRARY TO INSTRUCTIONS FROM LIA COLONEL MICHACE HOARE (SCOL)

CA iNO NOM IN SOUTH AFRICA PREPARINO TO PIURA TO THE CONCO VUTH

APPROKIMATELY 2OR NEW RECSUITS:

SECRET

ЧАС • МАФІ "К

*AD/C1 2

CLANCE SC

---

## Page 68

SECRET

AN 25775.

T001-)14/39285-85 PAOH

2.

MICHES PLACEO THE BLAME TOR THE POXONE CERS (SCIE).

ON BELGIUM MILLENCE ANO MACHINATIONS ANO NICO MAT MADE SCILO

BE EXTREMELY DISPLEASEO WITH DEVELORENTS, GRE AGACEMENT FOR.

THE NONDENT Or THE (5000) TO ONUS OT BEEN PUNCO TO MCIUDE

SUPPUR TO ANC CAPRISONO IN THE MALA OUT ONLY ECT TRAINING DE.

THE NEW SOUTH ARICAN MACORS

• 40

THE

ILMEDIATE SUASECIONT MILITARY

THRUST INTO DIZI BARAKA AREA

SHE FIELD DISSEMI CREASE COMIN

(ATTACHES), SINOKEATSA

SECRET

---

## Page 69

DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE INTELLIGENCE REPORT

NUMBER 2821007965

DATE: 2 JUNE 1965

SUBJECT FICKS. ALLISTE

CLASSIF LEATION:

CONFIDENTIAL

FILE NO:

NOT LISTED

SUBJECT:

PROBLEYS AFFECTING 5th Bde Operations

Northern Congo

THIRD AGENCY

---

## Page 70

LUNCHES ROLE

nix.

Cicho

insolene morale: of Fabonzels

forses 2-460091

Ramus Sip bussinas Seirdo anner Greenes

:22% 6a7 29 4096: B966-3 (503 Co2zczia. 652.0303)

(ross).

carrerareer Chagciose traurgon"

raberaces bore beer were

onoravine for taris

war Prate

====5

on incorpora: source Cald neto cadar.

The roarse said

ano eniocarits had, beir cabrarchedty int president at tre

105050 3505040)

maccasion

Te citre

cold tand because of

Coveradio hed.indo1ned

tren

it canad

no in ine incürdero rares,

Irrepeat

dian though

cheer dorado.

Thei

ISId

tropsort in and Ceasino

financiot leap Boscose chore do to eradende et a

forcinent.

22d73.1

are Sudanese

Sadd

tre bia

--

Paria nã? in Prorea 2350 CiD G6 Mara: E956nn8 1709 OP2R0a:3 699 61568

(read) Sandbar, 25 ip21

c.25.or

lenn mercenardes

2as. turned in

too geare,

inchnamed

and pianops test do the

300 zen an tas unit.

---

## Page 71

30:0

CLASsignes austent

2

SECRET

vR. FiLE

HUNGỆT TOP

cifoes c1/0r FL

5. 2 GRET 031341Z

PRIORITY LEOP INFO DIR CAME

+ 38a6457771

KẾP, LEOP 6391 (45 7003)

1o.

SECAROB/2. (512) AND BABY LEFT FOR DURBAN AFTERNOON S MAY.

AYING AT MOTEL EVENINOS NAY AND ARRIVING DURBAN A MAY.

HAS SEEN CALLING S/Z'S MOTHER BUT NO ONE INCLUDING HER MOTHER

WHERE SHE NAS. SHE WELCOMED REF AND WILL CALL' WICKS FROM

DURBAN.

FYI: ADVISE S/I THAT SIE IS DELIGHTED ME STAYING ON.

SHE REALLY FEELS THAT FOR MIS QUE HAPPINESS HE MUST SEE JOB THROUGH.

SECRET

SECRaT

TED.

---

## Page 72

CLASSIFITO MESSAGE

SECRET

13

ODUCT POST PREMIOITEO

востанина

AE T

SECRET OLI 7OOZ

PRIORITY INTO DIR CITE LEOP 8591

SECAROB

PRESS A.

B.

(iN 56435)

LEOP 8589* NY

+ 1 Ha 65057003

SECAROB/I (S) VAS INFORMED IMAT WIFE AND BABY STAYiNG WITH

SK

PUBH. S MOST APPRECIATIVE. ANGED THAI MIFE BE TOLO HE DUE TO

RSTURN PROBABLY AROAND BEGINNING JUNE FOR ONE MONTH LEAVE.

ALISTAIN WICKS VILL FILL IN S WIFE ON

S CURRENT SITUATION, PER

RES B, WICKS LEFT ON LEAVE SO APRIL, TO CNTACT S WIFE IN DURBAN.

§ EXPECTS WICKS WILL LEARN SHE IN PRET AND WILL CONTACT HER WITHIN

NEXT SEVERAL DAYS.

SECRET

CINO RECORD IN DARLE SEC

SECRET

48 05 1520, 1 MAY 65.

---

## Page 73

DEPARTUENT OF DEFENSE

REPORT NUMBER 282:004865

INTELLIGENCE INFORMATION

DATE 26. Feb- 65

SUNJECT:

APICKS, ALISTAIR

CLASSiFiCATION:

CONFIDENT FAL

SUBJECT:

Stb Commando Personnel

---

## Page 74

SECRET

920533

SOCHIE COENEY

malignace ornaton Caller

86246

+ 709-33601625-4

=2702

-Sty

1045

(9 TECHACT 1965)

73959

40:385

0 a cono

ENCOURS, FORCE.

TOGETHER

• LISTAIR WICKS,

RETENTO TO STALENTIL NACA OF CONDO TO RESIDES OPERARICIO DURINE

HE THIRO HEROE

MOCOTLATIONS WO

WHICH.

SOLE ACCENTED

RECONCIDATICNS PUT TO HIS IN STPONS TERES OY HOARE ANO ASQURED HOARE

OFA MIS CON IOOICE

LETE VE

TEVEY: FORCE.

-MENE COPCRIDENY

THEY COULD NEW DEAL

WITH THE AGATHERN CONDO 3I THAT ION PROVIDED THE SEC ADOITIONAL

MERLOSARIES, BOSE CICAGONI FIONAL RAS ACCEPTEO, ARE BROUGHT DATO

SECRET

+Th

---

## Page 75

SECREY

E PEE AS

TO 05-314:01635

TACTION LAC PROVIDEO THE FOR

MAPOiSKIINTO VEHICLES"

THESE WE PEGACO DE TRE FORCE COMANOCAS AS

' SPENSACLE IN THE CACE OF IMPROVED ASSENT SHICH HAS SEEN SUPPLICO

NO RESCL FORCES NO VANCH MAS ALCIOT INTLICTIO LANILESSARY

CASUALTIES ON MERCENARIES US INO CONVENT SAL TANSPORT

3= FIELE DISSON STATE CINCUCAISA ALSO SENT LEOPOLONILLE I

SECRET

(END OF MESSI

---

## Page 76

Pw.44.4

DEPARTUENT OF DEFENSE INTELLIGENCE INFORVATION

REPORT NUMBER: 18210016651

DATE: 28 Jan 65

SUBJECTE

WICKS, ALISTAIR

CLASSIFICATIONS:

¿CONRIDENTIAL

FILE NO. NOT LISTED

SUBJECT:

Visit to Kamina Base on 25 & 27

January, 1965

---

## Page 77

TO

SECRET

TRANSMITTAL MANIFEST

FROM

Cief, Africa Dirtsion

Chief of Station, Leopoldrille

french languase version of report

pouched under. M. 0602162.

No. 0602163

DAT$

14/1165

SIGNATURE

Тегеба б. DARSN

SACNAT

Frigarte

---

## Page 78

Co?

io don: lids

inti? le colonel

Nou tridato ino 1s

-aid

3502788

ironis

11:11:0

ag 010

CAMONCE

qnd contie

Linkine directs

orce ri!".

cilicior

1:0g

cinemato

r."

unione 1 0:5

Pee 4gt1a

ti era

:C:: 2.:000

0: 95.:

20.o:

Il 1 distre

3. 1.

gine - de

il

stand

-¿::

meTeo: 39 lui tron

Sorellir.

itte siidi

":.:"0:

::

t.i:

del rini

ci: 01.11

narittis

conrofficiclo

trismi mul seccolio

•= oncopi co For l'urririe 4s 925 terees:

darwita

i!!"

---

## Page 79

8900

21042 18

220060 6 49 40

24a.23

: *

-oP.....:1.1?1000011R111

1 AT 20660

!??! 6.606.1000 1 E01010IC 141224

winter

70003119

richt

Cr.

---

## Page 80

37277

- FAGE.

AEACENRIES

To: HIs Ordes 56663209 00 dens 2038, 702278

DAY 7S:

WING BE SORTINE UP O7 SEARSON ORRACE IN SONASNESSURE,

Faga

ENOGE WELL OCCUPY MIDS SLOT.

NE NOZ GUEAR CHETHER

WITS AND ESE SETING VERDIE MAS ENSUCH TO SET

AS JUST CONCERN TO GENERAL DELISE, ARKS LANDED

MOUR MARTIEAD ARE LET TANGEMIPPEO TO ARUN. INSTEAD

RICHOLE AND TOOK BIANCY TO ADE GUER ROAD NOT SHOWN

SliC

SACCORDING SA: KLEINSCANEST IG ALL-WOUND EXPERT ON NORTHEAST

SE NAVE GODNESS KOD CAN COOLIER FURTHER IT DESIREDO SHE:

TAKE STATES ROACh 65).

W: ARACAONED BY MACOD CHARLES NEAREN, EX SOUTH AFRICA

ANCE, CGART) DU 29 3AN0 KENNET; WED FREVIOUSLY REPORTED 0:

CRET AND LAURORANT WOR EE "BUDATICIALLY" NOO! SANTA

PETROTE CHE: LEAVE TO RIGOLE TICK TO JOIN MER-

1T AT CLER: M01RA KOOKY MAD MOHOBETY MAKE THIS OFFER.

5/!

---

## Page 81

USAMA Docurent = 9S045

DAT December 1964

SUL JECT:

WICkS) Alister.

CLASSINICATIONs Contentint

FILE N.:

Not Listed Froc: Leopoldville

SUBJECT: Not listed

USARMA DOCUment 06615

23 Jisnuary 1965

SULT CL: #IC:5, Ilister

CLASSIFICATION: Confidential

FIL 1: Not listen

FiO!!: Leopoldville

SURFECT: Not listed

THIRD ARENCY

---

## Page 82

14-0000

DEPARTIENT OF DEFENSE INTELLIGENCE INFORUATION

REPORT NO:

2821017164

DATE: 30 May 64

SUBJECTE

NICKST ALISTAIR

CLASSIFICATION:

CONFIDENTIAL

FILE NO:

NOTLISTED

SUBJECT:

21st Support Squadon

THIRD AGENCY

---

## Page 83

TO: WAIT

1 , вт.

Va,

FILS,

FIRMANCE, MUSTAO GO SEEN, COS 1

SECPE T IS12152

PRIORITE LEOP UFOL. DIR CITE

111e271

Siles Suspens

19 0с7 64

IN 95557

RETA LECP 4037IM 9 3 176

BY LETTER TO MPS. PUGH DATED & OCTOBER SECAR03/2 ADVISED

SHE IN EXCELLENT CONDITION. SHE WAS CONGRED TO SED-WEEK PREVIOUS

LETTER DUE TO USUAL "HEART BUSINESS" BUT OTHERWISE EVERYTHING IS

GOING EXCELLEUTLY DOCTOR CONFIRMS THIS AND ADVISES THAT BABY

SHOULE ARRIVE A3OUT 17 NOVENDER. LETTER NOT. CLEAR ON FOLL POINT

BUT ARFARENTLY DOCTOR HAS REQUESTED SECAROE/L'S BLOOD GROUP. PLS

ADVISE iF POSSIBLE.

• 20 SECAP0S/2 RECZIVED CALL FROM JOHAUNESBURG 6 OCT FROM DES

BARERS, GHO SAYS HE IS IN CHARGE JOXANEZGUNG OFFICE AND THAT

PATRICK CHALLEY WAS BEEN RELIEVED. BARSES AS SENDING DONALD

GRANT TO SEE SICARCR/2 ON 7 OCT BUT WE DID OT ARRIVE. ASK SECAROB/:

FOR DACHGROUNO OH BARNES AND GRANTE

3O FOLL INTELL MY SECAROZ/R'S LETTEN WHICH LEOP CAN USE OR KILL.

DIFFICULT TO SOURCE HERE PLUS FACT MAY FE OUTDATED BY MORE RECENT

SECRET

---

## Page 84

CLASSISED MESSAGE

SECRET

"AS OF 2S SEPTENBER FAY MAS BAG PROBLEM OF MERCENARIES,

INCLUDING SECAROB/S KINSELF. FOUR LEACELARY COURANCO UNITS ARE

THE FIRLEO: THEY ARE LOCATED AT SURANU, LISALAg GENENA, WIGENDE

THERE ARE THRSE LEFT AND ABRANGENENTS ARE SEING MADE TOR QUE HUNDRED

NORE MET. THESE MEN WILL ARRIVE SCO AND ARRANCENENTS FOR THEM

ARE BEING MADE BY SECAROS/& PERSCHALLY, SAUCE ALISTAIR

AND

PATRICK. O'MALLEY RAVE MADE SUCT A NESS OF PREVIOUS RECRUITING.

THE MERCEIARIES ARE GENERALLY IN GOOD SPIRITS AND SECAROB/1

ESTIMATES THAT THE REBELS BILL DE SUBDUED IN ABOUT SIX WEEKS IF

HE IS ALLONED TO USE HIS JUDGEMENT IN FIGHTING, SECAROS/I

BELIEVES THAT THE BELGIANS ARE NOT ANKIOUS FOR THE WAR TO BE OVER

TOO SOON AS THEY ARE BUILDING UP ANOTHER SPHERE OF INFLUENCE IN

THE CONGO WITH DOZENS OF OFFICERS AND NEN RUNNING HEADQUARTERS AND

LOGISTICAL TEANS.*

SECRETI

SECRET

---

## Page 85

TROS A/0052301

5 85

LEST GEEN ATRAES TE

3-

FLACT A

Bate 400

BOUC

AND

APITASTAN

ES LONG (PSOETA MA)

et

52545

(Спля з на

PATRIOTIS AND SONY TUCY ALGUNATE

ROTURET TRE FACTO)

DOR MCHAEL MOARE

SALO PRIVATELY THAT LONG

1270

LIER

HAD RECEIVED TESTIA

HECK ME

LES MATUCH

MARY (AC)

COMANDER !

ID CANCELAL IN

CONINO DRAFTA CI

DARL IN COIATELY

PATRICK OR

440 D-A

MOTOR RECRUATINO:

3 SEPTO CE

PAN VICAS IN LISCURY -

HAR VLOS

RAMINA BASE

2 06-3 VITH 3

ARRIVCO AGUARC

70.36

PEN NOTAS JOAR LAS DONO LENT OR ISOPOLOVILE.

WICKS CXP AMER

PAN LAGARCIO PNSTRLETICNS HES ARAINTO TOO LATEE

13 C0 8,

SECRET

CHABO

---

## Page 86

DECRET

tra perios Mod

1602 1003-914/059796

THAT THE VEN MÃO ALCCADY SCALO CONTRACTS; AND THAT EY 1 SEPTEMEEP

THERE HOLLO SE A TOTAL OF TEO MERCENARIES AT KAMIRA: 440 ALREADY.

THERE, 268 TÓ APRIVE, (CICLO COMOTI

A PERCORARY BOLL CALL TRO

KAMINA BASE DATEO 30 AUUST SHONEO A TOTAL STRENOTH TREN OF 2160):

2, ROARE DESCRIOLO ME CENCRAL LEVEL OR NE VEACEMARIES AT KAMINA

52518

AND SENT BACK TOR VARIDIS PHYSICAL DURIGIONIES:

THE POST ARC

YOUNO, AOVENTUACUS NO CACER, THERE IS QUE PLATION OF 35 RARA.

TROOPS, 'EXCELON SOLDIERS,

MDARE FOLAO THE QUARTERS ASSIGNED HIS

VEN UNSATISTACTORY AND TOOS OVER THE 1400ST AND EST BURLAINOS CA

TRE PASA DEL SHORTO DIL MONO A CUSPICIE NO, ME BIO.

CASILY DEFINOLO LA NOTO, BE. MOARE ASMITICO THAT THE EQUIPPING AND -

ASINO OF THE TEFCEMRIESEI COINO VERY SLONVIE DAD MAMAGEO

HONCYER: TO CET FACH MAN ARIELE ALO NASAITIONI HOST LOUINEM

¡COMES: FROM BELGIUN

3. DURING TE MORNING OF 5 SEPTEMGER, HOARE SAID, ME SAM COLONEL

ERCOERIE VANDERLALLE, MICITARI ADMISER TO CONDO PROMIER MOISE TSHOMBE.

MANO PIALLSO MO ACCOPOIES TO HORE MADE NO SITCHOT TO BE PLEASANT,

GREETED HIN KATA DONT YOU DEEY INSTRUCTIONS; 1: SALD, NO MORE

MEL SEDARE SAIO THAT LAULA TAC CIRCIASTANCES NE PELT TRE MATTER

SHOULD SE TAKEN LA DIRECTLY WITH MORUTU, MCARE, VANDER MILLAND

BELGIAN AIR FORCE CICUTENANT-COLONEL (ENU) BOUZIN THEN MET WITH

SECRET

---

## Page 87

SAVES

52912

SECRETE

1ES DEEN 171

MOSUTU..

KNEW MOSUTU ASTIG-TE DUNE ZESTION, ICARE REPLICO,

•YOU ASKED TONS DOO ME MES DOT THEM AND I CAN'T STOP MEA

WHAT DO YOU WANT VE TO DO

OR AGAINISTER A ON MEN A DIS TIME:

YOU LAST REDUCE YOUR IT TO 255

MEN AT ONCE,"

AFTED RELATINS THE ANCES HOARE CORENTED THAT HE BELIEVED

-OCRHALE'3.

SHE THIRES THAT MOSTO FEARS THAT TIC DR NEMAT

KAMINA SALE WOULD BC LOYAL TO ISHUBE PERSONALAY

THE EVENT OF

Fear t

ASKED WHAT HE

MEANT: 57.

PAN

UPCAVAL HOARE SAID THERE

VAS CVERY POSSISITE OF A COUP DE LONGESSAINTS

CHUNGERED BEERY

KASAVUBUTA

AT THE AL

MUE RISSATISFACTION WITH NOBUTU TS CHING

TS A HAD WITHIN

AND TIERE IS:

SCHE, POSSIBILITY OF AME

OEFICERSK

URiSiN

SO MOANE CONCLUOSO EY SOMENTAR THAT-DE

PANC/ECARANO SECAS TO

HAVES

IS FEVINO TO DO, FORCES ARE FOO MURIEN

SPREAD, AND LEADERSHIP IS: MNACEONATE

VANDERYALLE ISA

SNO SACTISIAN,

THE:

HEAD. OF,

PARTICULARCY BY A CERTATH (FAUD VATTIER,

GROLE OF OCLCIAN MERCCIARISS.SS

(SOURCE (EX-

UNDE AND VANCELLIE ARE DEVIOUSLY

SECRET

*E FEE ESE

---

## Page 88

SECRETA

END OF MESSAGE)

A TONE CLAN TEOLA

---

## Page 89

465239

1015

series Baeue

22

22/66

N83 N067708

SE 02=

F..:

:2

aateaty ieor eitea

INFC

78.

VANE FECHOLTULATICN ALL RETERGNGES ON THIS:

MEN ANS VE CESSTTES DEO NSPE SCCRUATING HERE

351

tatuer do condo MASENO SONDY SUT WERE ALVAYS DXPECTING

BIC.

..n:?

Faog menoteae

ENIUCUCE THIS IN SECAROS DIRRY RSFERRED

F.9.

2-79

STATNT ACIS TSNES 18 S CASUE TE

FCLa

CAEH

LANA ISAORBE ONESTHIY AROUT SIY THOUSAND POLNDS®. AT

ANCiRCA POINT

AH GENGY AFTEM TSROUGE HAD EOLD SECASOE FROCEED WITH

JHI SAUN ISAN EM HIK GIOLE COLCH ecuroRo "sat eeiconct Sa etearaa

Centaatt

IOH: DO TRATKY MEN COULD RETURD TO SALISSURY

70.

ERINS UP TAR SMALL ARYYS

RATES. OF PAY

IG TIGKET NO LAUNSRY". AT ANOTHER POIST

L: CErREc MiCLEARO FOUROS TRANGFERRED TO

AGTH TASNCHnR GRNEd RERAIES, TRAVEL TIGKETS,,

-.Aic::,

3N IESA GO1ON 3H IAXOG 22A61Y1Y .°13

AU GHREROA TO JOAAGGECDIRG ACS

TO SALISBURY SUT

.=1:

FETTORMG GENU" LEO SIGNING OF CONSRACTE

STO TE ERALNG GULEA ÉREREND JOHANNESBURG WITH TRE

V:24

ANCHE PUUS FREWIOLE DESSENS KOULD CLEARLY INDICATE

T..

PAYING HRRCENARIGEO

SECRS!

---

## Page 90

SECRET MENING 220

LICACE

SAULT ING HAS TE

THOSE UHO W

2L- SE SIGNED

FIOR 2 SEPTA

SIT DOES NOT

CORTEON SAP DO

SHOULD RESULT

ORIG

INESA

WOULD SUMMARY NES

NE GETTING OUT OF HAND AND

PLUS INPISATION RECRULTS BEING TAKEN

ASSISTANCE TO ASHOMBE ON IS THIS

SECRET

---

## Page 91

PEPARIVENT OF STATE CABLE NO.5171

DATE:

3) Aug 64

SUBJECT:

wICKS, ALISTAIR

CLASSIPICATION:

CONFIDENTIAL

PILE NO. S

CONTROL 26155

SUBJECT: SR MARCENARI

THIRD ATENCY.

---

## Page 92

DEPÄRTMENT OF STATE CABLE NO. 26128

DATE:

28 August 1964

SUBJECT WICKS, ALISTAIR

CLASSSSICATION:

LINITED OFFICIAL USE

PILE- NO

CONTROL: 24529

SUBJECT: NOT LISTED

THIRD AGENCY

---

## Page 93

verlefont

Escocesano coles of alory

DISTRIEUrICE:

0-1842

cos;

Leopoldville

/Attack

Dote, Dipe.: 33 A,9-se 190

83. 021

S.E C. Ba

201- 316665

---

## Page 94

AFr1Ico

01

10955

trutt fee

it ?.=0 da

dist

Lairer asid

declare.

Eag

•R.€

can prosa"

cive tres Saliasurg

further oriors

101:n9. 630 eirport

253493

Celestes

- the

lest pest must

atou: 25000 be says.

piests.

Spec: with tos 1.40

wies it brecks.

se:11

to stay and.

frustration vo

Servilo

15o kitches dosro-bea

-a a trote roturbed to Joburg on

of sing

which

e=d=g

3..b

Loanne de diraliaries

cas big

06M8÷2

lo dicisiry. of lafor-stioa

of

21=1 s

• У.

1pt:

-S00sl c.

=ry such tri

$07.0:-9

7.402+

22117" 1h

* colloct

21

Col.

cj3. +11h04: 360102 bis.

Gonor al

==076.:a90 losdiy that bo elways

in bis face

Karance dinister Libus also

13

= 10139=03

ka*.

= talls coco currency

I:E

lott vithout socies

?.!

З!сс..1.

Flin by

threa

Icek

*$1n

42.s

Credeleno tree Cloarly

sailoricteries for

1132

11:3a20.

kor

3111 M

T301:1..1

F:161012

pattork.

guilt capailo

singed!.

Enricias.

at tuatio

+ 1.

Kinde

_0c:

+v==061b

Te??

Laisle

cl. ca Colcals ia:Asad

0: 44s I:al1ca 815=03

1ID21:44g

1.0 FIDEL DISERTSURES!

itch it,

#ZEN 1665.

001-346613

---

## Page 95

14-000n

¿rala mien Saaaiter getcs!

12.urdag

62e394?

Ceds Cescle etg

banes

2:

Puacicd chylas

$325250

Bạn da

4370

thhs

aes of ead

Lé veraad

teCedt

icriblo

cilor vecke

resait:

120039

Bèbel.

Pclla ecd

I=e:

Retraco

N4°3306

sac l5t:s

s1atne3"

9 25222

303-1609

EO$.

•ăs .

chn Eist

c.d aa

ediaaeo

biinies repone.

Pereslly

Stetot 1ato

lairulty.

231L02-0150

iilt birà c0a daa

sef bio

=ãlt Coslsta smtgleg

„yatr

tia

n0e3%le:

ituda. Hateta

Fo na

-40:

HrD i

203.131d

Fo ba bed

3o

Essably?)

o=c 21ocking

HCSAPlag

th..

D6t!

12628

thina

tro:01.

hiat

be

he

1ubo.go

9311

357

fanicos.

ThS #C

-gd

in

ky tebuee

tho

TIllair

riot

killiny

C 8.a1

hsa.

812

* 11.

•antd5:

tho.iod

ver Tod Iiifes

"iCifter

c.o.Lsod

cove ad

t 2

ag tho Ceozo

jel.ions.ro

torbid tro

# »

areatly stareg ebch ru ineriihaa

•лосія.

"T164)

terg

varld pleia's culote cor

ead

20 3elil2z9

aihea

[eag

sù, to clodrec

cot drspciaer. d.s

: to

losk'llio

= 1.

[rEALJU the

villejar

Feecetul 111

LRgaötr C0o-9 6754

611?

Cood mnd erid i.

•nsen

=13

Bo nide

TL0

CR.ng

sird'ccro

18 k.=c

1i20

47493. 840

==5:e1 cL: ead

32a= lichle"'! liko- Buccoa

ce.upatder

SmahG3.

wii!

ПTe.d

-10'

I2i::0.

0-131+ 86-6866=3

•cod and

das

biclalica c?

b23. bo0s

3-7603 69 191291130)

Eg.acrin

c0=9 4001, 23

39d Tl

2-65-0653.

3+=e 123.

Lize 1103 che 50st

trousle 1r

msasi.

iitories.

Cerry

2od.

I VAS 106801

Juiim (Geçry'a vito) bod loa vitb ramongo ca cuaday 8tbo

tu: fooi Gorry ouiciaiearrod co 108 sora aessos.

---

## Page 96

801148

er Lesioces

Molt

10:0

sea.

by

ses

Tard Ja

o1.

tze

cariato a

berira

inio: 6040

16.1i

•л.=

CUTE

it.

zitter

Caratich ka

iba'd

ca.rec0ga1i

Lis cecisios.

vago.

36o

Gos

tat

Cut

potertulo

825344158.

Be=?

•13

allad.

cething:

Saine.

Volo dees tsing

entino: ing 1a tho botal waiting to

of urgeres

Bad rot

wich

carpet

Ma 15 tao orcatae vita: te dirrere

Ligusta 17

1€52!

fery ccavir

Pesteros to hobutu ead Zatosbo

. boar

h18

Car 638.

irca

to

2: 19

done shat be ca.

calerlol;

ersasport, planet ote

d'entica

MAjOr

Deur. 7045.

120019to

may il throe ciaos. to

hel noe sicheiri bis.

:: 01101109,

non Grafrale

10:0s

iridare do le baliriy

15

1"c"

11:019

F.Ot

"honde

kaba'o

a..l:e

h:=

Aou.!

avor; body:

A dailera!

DISL

1n?0

to dalisbury condurno

pay

Ge:

must bio fia-leszer,

13 RUNY

Nos! : 10015

wich aud.

4945y

•tot Ey

taci

toy Conge, Mureno

115, 8 des dard 432

liable.

Syes shialaz

world

diriasi

Toid

that dv ea

sald

army.

io inugsed

1 told

Balay.

dalled ail corring soo. cibonso aid dobusu! Pinsily

---

## Page 97

15:3 105-86 64.

Matjes end Meesteiosa ariand de tuich duea frea dalucbourge

Their first missien as Sos a sigerablo colluro so far.

La dirrards tod ele regarlar at 134o to blast che rebois

sict oufaido b chesd. coly aro circatoning to overh-la

cui rent.

rea approccatis

its morning firsto cato disa sits

So dad cad 21:09 up 859

MarTard on the Ci:8a!

aha aide

yay breckles oce

siasi a sacel en! jorkiag ore tro de the surs la thair ascolles

Gorry thra seat Bodges est Sue Pres be d45 Congo aad atavod bobied

vita singcon lo cossioco pao cussia todey la eleosho- darverd

•Scaroced do suo Palaco do 1200 Las. Mobutu arrired at 1995 asa

•e sato him she peo foria congisel to lad prercied for the ca:isi=ea

Jobered do lo the mesesee ISJU Ers. Leccat desugo, Sahoaba,

Motutu,

Lindato (Securtis Maision), Dalla God sysolf. Takoaba

nai as boll sitt Jalla,. Neo coes de tace faro vialta to get 13o

s:alles! ehlig firol ete. Julia arguered sia back.

Finally ast a soraight guasti0s to ie - 19s 1 saliallod sità sso

¡sisiga coatrael of Ilsi, sas ar no. 1 cald los bus osag lo dao Coss

of tirino expeetod highio taies. isho.bo puinied to teo indes elesso

end sala dbat look care ol ale durcluatlos of daroy, l ississed ea a

ritten contract sied tney damon and sigood thors

and

thes.

Tara coif

d'exl Mobuta vory egitate! •cil lo 1no. sby via I 20% la Lazios osira

Gia EobaRo sãs Nsitis: 1sa 53 19é 6by 1950 850 SA B00 D0t 650=0 29

orisod today? Explainel. in a combatall fros

Istarbo, Eas 8.=e

roa:d le tare do bring dao abatecal ma=? 1000. I sald a costi. 6is

tri= 9951 pila çue caraiblo, tutuisei sietient posilloa. fano creca

en :abla aid sho: d es 119 parieles, Teco piace of Jajor and sr0ia coi=

criors. Pirso -farina, Condolo, albertollo, Urire. dest autora.

Sext Sica, Gare ca 6 Crosp Mitilo Calis, 200 la oçça usit, 1ia,

e:k:"

10%00, 0na of sy Misteris -ill deod eresa. Con 1t Do doco 29 aikie.

Poniel jos, 1l jou sito so ile assuridi saù forse arienco, dirati to

ererythlag, diaged ana del capear-des Tebrado.

gold hla hor ct-ratti!

da.?

callod dininte dal Cell D'a 19 caque: Blica - you a0 syci o!

sald Char:ta!l.

Pit"

int'a ed te ino 06.0551:110.

?51o

sborra nave elegia an ang.unifiiain ora

198996-0948 49

lista Che Gardo 671 199.1919

---

## Page 98

carlo

busy

with

EsTo

15g

B1sc012

radica

it

priorily east now bo

Arriao dise

today

vd11

vOr

..the

set

at 1.1

24.1

tiga

2a6 08

rule

1d tore

LOCA

Sut littlo Juczazoat

tie"

2 place

153 C059 42 36

2111.28

10 v6I9

-23.

suc3? lei

list ca,40, dia

...P

esca: (0 00 4) 10 g

A2?4

1685

Jei-31605

---

## Page 99

1:o

Piring soning

first

recruitront luja

sentina

Jobiarg

ry

ing

army plarg.

lasud

mistrustings for the

to oron ris bracid ith the coacy.

no:

fur

alist

Cortniz

Jobir

1C0l!

83

00:

riority

naut friend

assistace on

aray

ity side.

•If taicao bo eased

will de

CASA

done If about a lays

try

Kuot find

other-iso

Matry Aerieses but must have chea

absolute

¡aberzens s 18 it eas bo dong our rose.

for

ovinico

Mach it!

AZ P$ 1645

900

PRess eat

indidate

NO FIELD CISTRIBURICH

1-346610.

---

## Page 100

201-801702

And be

add CODES?

36 25 002466

CONGO

MAY

TINKPLOT

Acecc 1 28038

81822

ALASTAIRS

201-343685

PKET-04802

600

RACUESIS

SAL ISUURY

UNSUF PLOTILMS INJULY

G6 PLANNEC

ccUP TO oUST MOGUrOS

BEGISTERED AT

I KENTUCKY HOTEL SALESZURY • SEE FILE

138540

AELCEBACENCE-

WICKS. IMAJ/

SEX M DO8 ?

6608121628

007-009-011

CEF -02128

26 FEB 65

CIT

acc 3

CEFENSE

P2

MER NOS, DETACHMENTSO

SUSU ON PERSONNEL ROSTER FOR THESTHECCH-

MANDOS AS OF

1Z FEB 65. NOST PERSONNEL HAVE

BEEN NENLY RECRUITED IN SO AFRICA-AND SO

RHODESIAS ALTHOUGH BY NATICHALITY THEY COME

FROM MANY DIFFERENT COUNTERES IN THE BRIT

ISH COMMONKEALTH.

DIE AERTURE CAROS ARCACHER

₫33536

3504231579

---

## Page 101

18.419

AGTION 1E (CORN

OSUED TO TO AT:

1940, 12 ANS

• SP

INFO:

DE:

sos 6,

a 2, iS 1/090%

10/095,

TOCS - 314/01482-64

AUS: 12 23242, 64

PRIORITY

IN= 49806

SECRET :220EN

IMMEDIATE DIR INFO IMMEDIATEL.

FOUTINE L

JUTE LEOR 24TI (BLANDA ACTING)

INTEL WITHUNDER SECARCO

SUPDATA: PHLEBAR FROM SECARON: DEFER

ON PASSAGE TO SMOTH

NO INDEX: FILED: 1220902. REPORT CLASS:

SECRET NO FORCIGN DISSEM

ACL-2788.

CONGO (LEOPOLDVILLE) /SOUTH AFRICA/SOUTHERN RHODESIA

SUBJECT: INSTRUCTIONS FROM TSHOMSE AND MOSUTU FOR CONCENTRATION

OF 15 MERCENARY PILOTS AND ZOR MERCENARY GROUND TROOPS AT KAMINA;

PRESUMED PLAN OF CAMPAIGN; PREPARATIONS.

DO.1: 11. AUSUST 64

PADA:: CONGO REPUBLIC, LEOPOLLVILLE 12 ALGUST 64:

2/F2AT HOGFE MADE THESE STATEMONIS AND THAI THEY ACGUBATELY

IN COMMENT:

CSDO: PLS PASS TO SIG CENTER

FOR ELECTRICAL TRANSMISSION.

2.5 ad

RELEASING 10D..1

DATE DISTRIBUTED:

13. AUGUST 1964

c1462

TOCS

PRECEDENCE

ROUTINE

PRIORITY

BASED ON: ACL

2753

MITMUMDEN; NO/ SECARCE

LIAISON:

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITED:

Copy No

---

## Page 102

PAGES 2

148806

REFLECT TH

FASTS AS HE ANOUS, THEM)

SOURCER WESTERN GUSINESSMAN (E)E FROM EX-KATANGA MERCENARY AC

FROM HCARE:

• S/6 NOTE: RELAY OF THIS CABLE TO SLY HAS SEEN STOPPED BY WÄSH. SIG. CEN

I# COMMENT:

RELAY REQUEST ON FROM 12 1S REQUIRED TO CESECT RELAXA

-PRECEDONCE A

ROUTINE

PRIORITY

RELEASING INO

DATE CISTRIBUTEDI

ASED ON

LiAISON

SECR

REPRODUSTICH BY OTHER-THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITED*

Copy No

---

## Page 103

SECRET

CENTRA: INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

Intelligence Information Cable

• COUNTRY

DATE OF .

INtO

REELe:1O Of IME 1OM9O

li augus: 11994

TDCS- -315/01482-64

DISTR 13 AUGUST 1964

SUBJECT

INSTRUCTIONS OF ISHONGE

AND HOBUTU FOR CON

CINTRATION OF MERCI

SARIES

KAMINA;

PRE-

SUMEO PLAN

OF CAMPAIGN; .

PREPARATIONS

(12 AUGUST 1964)

PLACE &

DATE ACQ:

BEOPOLOVILLE

REF

IN 49000

SOURCE

AND:

FIELD REPORT NO, 'AÇL 2788

APPRAISALI A MESICRA BUSINESSAN (B) FROM A TORME?

ANGA MCRCENARY (Ç) FROM HOARE.

2 (THAT MOARE MADE

PHESC: STATLMINIS AND THAT THEY ACCURATLLY

REFLECT THE FACIS AS ME KNOUS

I HER)

1..

ON 11 AUGUST 64, EUROPEAN GREENGEY CONVANDER MICHAEL HOARE

SAID PRIVATELY THAT AT R91S HOURS THAT SAME MORNINE, PREMIER MOISE

¡SHOMBE MAD SENT A CAR TO PICK LE HIM AND MERCEMARY AIR COMMANDER

JEREMIAH PUREN AND WIFE, FOR AN S93E APPOINTMENT.

THEY WAITED. UNTIL

ICE HOURS AND THEN SAW ISMONDE FOR "EXACTLY FOUR MINUTES". THIS

WAS HOAPE'S FIRST INTERVIEW MITH HIM SINCE ARPIVING. IN THE CONSO

ON 25 SULT, THE GIST OF WHAT ISMONDS SAID WAS, "HOW SOON LAN YOU

ERING YOUR TEA IN? THIS iS VERY DECENT, AND WE WANT

YOU MANGOLATELYS" (FIELD CONSIGNTE THE MENTION OF "YOUR

MEN" IS CEVIOUSLY A REFERENCE TO OTHER CURDALAN MERCERIES STANDINE

SECRET

STATE/IN®

Dis

Ro!/ AESI

HAFT

2

ATE IS SECDEF NSA NIC

AID

WA SIT 9004 DIANSAPAOS WO

CNOOPEZ2Y

DRI-ACBI

DIA. CIC

JC9

USIA: OCt ONE OC. OUR : 00

STATE YO??

NEss

---

## Page 104

PASSCATON- DISCENNATON COITOS

SECRET

Flies ta)

TDCS- 316/01

DO PESOSA DESER

iN 462

PAGE

DY TO BONE TO THE CONSOR! ISHONSE THEN WROTE A FASS IN HIS CHA

HAND AND SENT HOARE AND THE PURENS IN A STAFF JAR TO SEE CONSOLESE,

NATIONAL ARITY (ANG) CONMANDER-IN-CHIEF MAJOR-GENERAL JOSEPH MOBUTU,

HOARE CONNENTED, "WE RECEIVEO RED CARPET TREATMENT ALL THE WAY."

2.

TEGY SPENT HALF AN NOUR WITH MOBUTU, DURING WHICH PERIOD TSHOMBE

TELEPHONED, TO WAKE SURE THEY WERE THERE AND TO TELL THEM TO REPORT

BACK TO HIM AFTER THEIR TALK WITH MOSUTU. HOARE SAID THAT THROUGH-

OUT THE MESTING MOSUTU WAS "CHARMINS AND MOST COOPERATIVE, AGREEING

TO EVERYTHING.": HE APPEARED "MORE ENTRENCHED THAN EVER" AND

"IN FULL CONTROL (SIC) OF THE SITUATION."

3..

MOBUTU SAID: THAT HOARE, THE MERCENARY PILOTS AND ZOE ADDITONAL

MERCENARIES ARE TO BE FLOWN TO KAMINA, MOBUTU THEN TOLO PUREN HE

COULD HAVE 15 PILOTS. PUREN IMMEDIATELY PRODUCED A LIST OF SEVEN

PILOTS WHO HAD BEEN WITH HIM IN KATANGA IN 1961 AND ARE NOW WAITING

IN LONDON AND BRUSSELS. TO HOARS'S SURPRISE, MOBUTU QUICKLY STARTED

BUTTING THROUGH LONG-DISTANCE TELEPHONE CALLS" AND IN TWO HOURS.

THE JO3 WAS DONE." THESE SEVEN, PLUS THE THREE NOW IN LEOPOLOVILLE

¡ JAMES HEDGES, ERROL KINGMAN AND PETER MASKINTOSH), PLUS PUREN, LEAVE

FOUR STILL NEEDED, PUREN iS SENDINO TO JOMANNESZURO FOR THEM.

HOARE COMMENTED THAT AT THE MOMENT THERE ARE SIX T-O'S AVAILABLE

• IN LEOPOLOVILLE, (FIELO COMMENTE THIS APPEARS TO SE A MISTAKE.

FOUN ARMEO T-Ó'S ARRIVED IN LEOPOLOVILLE FROM LUANDA ON 8 AUGUST,

CLASSIFICATION - DISSENIMLATION CONTROLS

SECRET

2096

NO PERISY MISSEE.

АСРО. В-ка

(14-59-846-871

CONTINUATION OF TOCS INFORMATION: REPORT

---

## Page 105

IN

SECRET

SO FIRESH DAST"

TDCS - 314/01482-8

PAGE

ite Print Los

BUT THEIP CONDITION IS UNCERTAIN SINGE PRIOR TO THIS FLIGHT THEY

HAD NOT BLEN FLOW FOR AT LEÄST A YEAR. CIGHT MORE ARE EXPECTED

FROM LUANOR• THERE ARE ALSO SIX T-S'S SUPPLIED BY THE ITALIAN AIR

FORCE TO THE CONGOLESE AIR FORCE, THESE LATTER ARE NOT ARMED;

THE FIRST ONE SHOULD SE ASSEMELED AND BEADY TO FLY DURINS THE

WEEK BEGGING S AUGUSTA

4. MOLUTU OFFERED HOARE THE BANK OF MAIOR, WHICH HE ACCEPTED

WITH THE PROVISO THAT THERE SHOULD BE NO PELSTAY OF SUPERIOR RANK

IN THE CHAIN OF COPAND. AS AGREED WiTH MOSUTU, THE COMMAND LINE WILL

RUN FROM ISHOMSE TO MOGUTU TO MAUOR-GENEFAL LOUIS GOBOZO TO HOARE;

AND THE WHOLE FORCE WILL BE INTEGRATEO INTO THE ANC. HOARE SAID HE

HAS CHRISTENEO THE OPERATIONAL UNIT FIVE CONMANDO-ANÇ." BO50ZO,

HE ADDED, IS NOW WAITING FOR HIM AT KAMINA; AND THERE IS A POSS-

ISILITY THAT HE AND ALASTAI

WIC

• HIS SECOND-I'-COMAND, WILL

PE FLOWN THERE ON

THE NIGHT O

AUSUST. HOARE SAIO HE IS PRE-

PARING A LIST OF THE SUPPLICO AND EQUIRENT HE WILL NEED AND CLAIMED

THAT MEGUTU AGREEG, "WITHOUT ACTUALLY SARING SO," THAT THE LIST COULD

HE AMENDES AFTER HUARE HAD PERSONALLY CHECKRO CUT THE SITUATION.

.5.

•HOARE SAID THAT. THE MILITAGY ORLECTIVES AS ME SEES THEM ARE

TO BE MAÑONO, MONGOLO AND ALBERTVILLE. HE PLÄNS TO SEND PATRICK

•G'MALLEY, WHO ARRIVED IN LEOPOLOVILLE ON & AUGUST. OSTENSIBLY AS A

JOUPNALIST GUT ACTUALL: ON HOARD'S INSTRUCTIONS, ECK. TO JOHANNES

BURG CH 12 AGUSI "TO GET ON NITLETORI LINDA SUPIECI IO ROPEENENT

CUSSIFICATION - DISSENNATION CONTROLS

SECRET

#0 PETE DESE

POLLIA

MUPC. B-83

(19-40-44-47)

зід?

2096

CONTINUATION. OF TOES INFORMATION REPORT

---

## Page 106

CRFCONIROIS

SECRET

TuCS-31-/01696

HO PENISI DEST

PAGE M

ON A SATISFACTORY CONTRACT:

(FIELD COMMENT:

SEE ACL-2764 (

A FAN THE SAME SOLACE FOR AN CARLIER REFERENGE BY HOARE TO

C'MALL AS HIS TENTACT MAN" WITH THE MERCENARIES ON CALL IN JOHANNES-

PURO. HOARE WANTS THE FIRST PLANELOAD OF MEN FROM SOUTH AFRICA: TO ARRIV

AT KAMINA EY 17 AUGUST AND THE CALANIC WITHIN I& DAYS. HE PLANS TO

SEND WICKS TO SALISSURY ON 16 AUGUST TO RAISE 38 MEN THERE.

6. RETURNING TO THE SUEJECT OF THE CONTRACT, HOARE SAID THAT THE

ONE USED IN I95T IS NOT ENTIRELY SATISTACTORY AS A MODEL FOR A NEW

ONE AND WILL HAVE TO BE AMENDED IN "GERTAIN RESPECTS". ONE NEW CLAUSE

THAT: HOARE INTENDS TO HAVE INCLUDES IS THAT HE MUST BE ABLE TO

TERMINATE THE CONTRAST "ON HIS ONA 'UDGCMENT." HE ADDED THAT HE

FORESEES NO DIFFICULTY WITH MOSUTU ON THIS SCORE.

7• AFTER THE INITIAL HALF. YOUR MEETING WITH MOSUTU ON THE

MORVING OF 1I AUGUST, HDARE AND THE PURENS RETURNED TO SEE. MIM AT

1538 HOURS THE SAME DAY, MOZUTU WAS JUST THEN LEAVING TO SCE TSHOMBE,

AND THE GROUP FOLLOWED, THEY WERE KEPT WAITING UNTIL 1900 HOURS

WHILE MOGUTU AND TSHONSE CONFERRED IN PRIVATE. WHEN THEY WERE

FINALLY RECEIVED, THEY PRESENTEO MOSUTU WITH AN ESTIMATE

OF EXPENSES TO BE INCURRED WHICH HE PEAD CVER AND APPROVED.

8. FIELD DISSEM: STATE ARMY INVY AIR CIALMEAFSA.

(END COMESSAGE)

CLASSIPICATION - DISSEMMATION CONTAGIS

SECRET

#-9.

2096

B AS

N7O. 11

(10-00-70471

CONTIALATION OF TOES INPORMATON REPORT

---

## Page 107

SECRET

3/

MALAS RES

• PRIORITT

latelligence Information Cable

DATI OF

10O

17-20 never 1901

TDCS 85-315/00180-64

man 1 Averar 1964

REPUTALE dE INS CONGA, LAGANILLE (20 ANOUSE 1969) REN

SOLECH

AbCa

05 57975

PIRO REPORT NO.

ace ade?

APPPAISAL!

MARS'S AIAPEMINTO ACCUDATELY MERLEES MUS

AND THE PACTS AS ME ENOUS YAIM).

- 16 ON 28 AUGUST 64, MEACENARY COMMANDER MI HALL MCARE SAiD

PRIVATiLY THAT MAS. JATMIAN PUREN, WIFE OF THE MECCIARY AIR FORCE.

COMMANDER, MAD ARRIVED IN JOHANNESEUPE FROM LEOPOLOVILLE ON 17

ALDUST HITH TNT CORGOLESE COVT FUNDE, NEEDED TO PROCFED WITH MER-

:IMARY RICRUATINGO ALTHOM HOARE HAS MAD NO NEWS OF HER MOVESINIS

SINEE THEN, ME CONFIDENTLY EXPECTS THE FINST DRAFT DR MISCHARIES,

C: TREEN BE ABDO CE OF THEM, ACCONDARICO DY HIS SECOND-IN-CORANO ALASTAIR

WIT•S, TO ARFIVE AT NAMINA jASE FRON JOHAPRES-URG A: OARO A RAUDESIAN "

MIR-SEFVICES FLIGHT ON ED ALOUS?, SOME OT TILM WILL HAVE GEEN RE-

• MITTO IN JOHNNESELRO, SOME iN SALISILOT. GILLETS, COUPENT AND

пуховую Порика.

SECRET

Did

ns'

AlasT i aur sa.

A 15 0020, 500 1

ors. cat! Oce

---

## Page 108

SECRET

251875

TDCSpe

315/00189-04

SUPPLIES ARE READY FOR THEMO MOARE MIMSELF PLANS TO FLY TO KAMINA.

CARLY ON 2I AUGUST. ON ARRIVAL THERE, MIS FIRST TASK WILL DE TO

SET UP A MEADQUARTERS CAPABLE OF HANDLING AN INFLUX OF UP TO. 10

MEN AT A TUNE.

2O. MOARE THEN SAID THAT HIS PRESENT PLAN IS TO FORM FIVE COMMANDOS

OF 1849 MERCENARIES EACH (CONMANDOS "A" THROUGH "E"). - EACH IS TO HAVE

AN ARMOREO SPEARHEAD IN THE FORM OF A "FERRET" OR OTHER LIGHT ARMORED

CAR; ANE ALL COMMANDOS WILL HAVE TO OPERATE UNDER HOARE'S CONTROL,

SINCE ME MAS NO ONE ELSE CAPABLE OF ASSUMING SUBORDIMATE COMMAND

AT THIS TIME.

30 MCARE SAID HIS FIRST OBJECTIVE IS ALBERTVILLE, WHICH HE PLANS

TO TAKE FROM THE LAKES. HE MAS CHRISTENED THE ATTACK "OPERATION

WATCHOHAIN" AND MAS DISCUSSED IT IN DETAIL WITH CONGOLESE NATIONAL

ARMY (ANC) COMMANDER-IN-CHIEF MAJOR-GENERAL JOSEPH MOSUTU AND. WITH

COLONEL GUY LOGIEST, RANKING BELGIAN MILITARY AOVISER TO THE INC.

MOZUTU, ON I9 AUGUST, CONCURREO FULLY IN THE PLAN AND SAIO ALL NEEDED

SUPPLIES ANO CQUIPMENT WOULD BE AVAILABLE AT ONCE, HOARE THEN ASTED.

HIM FOR RECONNAISSANCE PLANES, FOR USE IN THE ALBERTVILLE AREA,

WHICH SELGIAN OFFICERS HAD REFUSED HIM DURING HIS RECENT VISIT TO

KAMINA, MOSUTU GAVE MIS AGRECINT TO THEIR USE.. ON: 28 AUGUST,

LOGIEST "ENTIRELY APPAOVED" OPERATION "WATHCHAIN": ME THEN WENT

ON TO DISCUSS WiTH MCARE THE CRITICAL SITUATION OF THE BELGIANS IN

ANCATULIE, SORE SOME DE ABS IN PRISON A SOME ISE OTHERS AT LIBERTY

SECRET

---

## Page 109

SECRET

38.57975.

IN THE TOWN REFERRING TO THIS CONVERSATION, HOARE CAD IT OS

ESSENTIAL THAT THE WHOLE TOWN BE TAREN AY DACE AND NOT PIECULAR

SINCE OTHERMISE THE RÉBELS WILL HAVE TIME TO KILL THE CUROPEAS

HE THEM REVEALED, IN STRICTEST CON IDENCE, MAIDO

180

HEATAG

OH ALBERTVILLE AS @300 HOURS 38 AUGUST.

NO ONE HAS THIS INFORMATION,

NOT EVEN MOGUTU,"

THE PRIMARY OBJECTIVES WILL BE THE

THE HOTEL CỤ LAC AND THE WHARF. (FIELD COMMENTS?

7551(

(8068-314/01366-64 FOR A GARBLED VERSION OF MOARS:

PLASTING FOR THIS OPERATIONS)

AFTER ALBERTVILLE, MOARLES TENTATIVE SBUECTIVES ARE $120

AND UVIRA,

"ALL IN LINE WITH THE GENERAL OPERATIONAL PLAN SUEMITTED

TO ÁNO APPROVED OT MOBUTU." AFTER UVIRA, "THE REAL WAR" STARTS.

THE OBUTETIVES BEING BUXAV AND STANLEYVILLE, HARE SAID THAT LHEN

HE SAN MOZUTU ON 19 AUGUST, HE MAD ASKED HIM "WHAT SHALL 4 DO WITH

(GASTON EMILE) SOUMIALOT, (PIERRE) MULELE AND OTHER REBEL LEADERS

IF CAPTURED, SMALL I SHOOT THEM OR TAKE THEM PRISONER? MOSUTURS

ANSVER WAS, "I DON'T WANT TO HEAR ABOUT THESE THINGS, " WHICH

HOARE SAID ME INTERPRETS AS TACIT AUTHORITY TO KILL THEM.

50 •HOAFE THEN SPOKE ENTHUSIASTICALLY ABOUT. HIS RÉCENT CONTACTS

WITH SELGIAN MILITARY ADVISERS TO THE ANT. ON 19 AUGUST, BELGIAN

AIR FORCE LIEUTENANT-COLONEL (FNU) SOUZIN, WHOM HOARE DESCRIBED AS

AN UNPOPULAR LITTLE MAN, IDLE AND IRRITABLE ALTHOUGH PROZABLY

SULTE SAPARLE," SAID HE WAS PREPARED TO GIVE HOARE "EVERE ESSISTANCE."

SECRET

NO FERDON BESTA, CONTAGIO RET

---

## Page 110

SECRET

Pan PuiNs

2457425

1/0010-0

THAT SANG DAY, BELGIAN ARMY COLONEL T O MAPLIERE, MAS "EXTROMELY

COOPERATIVE, ALLOWING HIM TO EXAMINE AVAILALEL SUPPLIES AND COUMENT

MOARS VAS ASTOUNOCO TO DISCOVER 2O NEU AERICAN BUILT ASSAULT

BOATS AND 15 NEW 2S-HP ONGINES, WHICH HE WILL USE IN TIC ASSAULT

ON ALBERTVILLE.

MDARE LISTED MIS REQUIREMENTS AND MADE ARRANGEMENTS

FOR THE SUPPLIES TO BE TRANSPORTEO TÔ AQJILI AIRPORT FOR AIRSHIPMENT

TO KAMINA BASE BY CIZE CFIELD COMENTS THE GOATS AND ENGINES.

WERE EN ROUTE TO KAMINA BY AIR ON ZI AUQUST.)

6. FIELO DISSEME STATE ARAT NAVY AIR CINCHEAFSA.

• END OF MESSAGE

SECRET

ED FEEDE DONE SEATED ETE

---

## Page 111

SECRET 2109332

2571

tO TRACES LAYZ.

SECATOS SS HIGH REGRED FOR URGES AND

PERSONALLY PICKED WICKS DON EES CENETY.

20/66R 56955

SECRET

because,

PErRORUCHC: EY Circa

---

## Page 112

2004 46.7

NºO

c/n ler - neg e, en

830 08 2969

213 1250 3333

203

ACs

2V3

:194020.

1x5 4240

1 scomoslis) emossans o

PU-LATZ BS LOCALA

Cwstte co s nestas nusconce

IN OADEE KEEP HIN S;

anes te poneaie rovatodes do Leyzec:

RERZCA ANS SOUTHE?N

SicDESTAo CUMRCL TILi DE FOCH AICHE FO LATZ TO SELCEAN MAJSE

SOCURUR CADVISOR TO ANC CHID TO SELCINS CONCEN TO'S EN KAXISA.

SODHIOUSLY SUCH CHAINEL WILL XEED L0TS GRGER PECPLE IN FICTURS

WIZRVZ AIRA CAaCb OiaKE LacirG SUR Maoudo NuloToe Ixd pogten st

DISE. S SAIO LE PICIRO LNTZ DEGLUSO DE QLO FRIENO OS MICRS.

20 LATZ IS LONG TIVE DECISONT AESSCIATED POESS CORNESPONSENA

AND ÄNS CUSILESS INVESEAGUTS EIZLLEO EARTISH SUBLECTE MAVEH0

E2730 1A70.

JO REQUEST ADDEZS TUACES GATZ, ECFIGERLLY IDICATIOHS AUX

INTEL COMNECRICH NOGADLY SHOTH. SRNG EOR WICKS.

Ho LN TIEH REPONTS LIXD DAR 2UCULO NOT D2 PASSED SHOTE

602 L

SEC?.T

S/E NOTE:G

S50A31

•to Dirai

- aedoe 109 d. l o

kiac

;."""

KeHaa

• O:ACS i PiOMaraS

C:a

ctcparrt

i. T.no"wisn7i7,00. -sie -i7o27067

~eiihltes

---

## Page 113

CLASS RICE RESCUCE

MAS ECON

ROUTING

ro,

i 60295

rocs 33/4/01691-64

No;

207192075641

B4N:52051

CUTE ECORATE (GLANDA AGTING)

WE SUNDER, SECAGOS

ANGA ALPALECAS ARCHASEDAROB, DEFER ON RASSAGE TO SMOTHER

FIUC0/16T32.

REPORT CLASS: SECRET NO FOREIGIN DISSEM

420-20050

-CONGO (LEOPOLDVILLE)

VEJECTE RECONIATSSANCE MISSION FOR MERCENARY PILOTS

Life To AUGUST 64

ACE: CONGO REPUBLIS, CEOPOLOVILLE 15 AUGUST 64

-ER: MCSTERN SUEINESSMEN (81, FRON EX-KATANG MERCENARY (O).

• NOTE: GRILA: CR THIS CASLE TO

HAS BEEN STOPPED SY WASH. SIG. CEN.

I ALOUDST WAFOEM. 12 19 RESUIRED TO EFFECT RELAY.

did. in.,!

PAGES ON:.

LiA1339: "

TOCS

PRECEDENCE

ROUTINE

DICỢITY

A62-250;

CATE DISTRIBUTED.

16 Aucus- 23:212

5059

GEFESOUOTICN BY OTHER THEN ISSUIT DEE CE IS PROMIBITED.

Copy No

---

## Page 114

SECRET

CENTEMIS

Intelligence Information Cable:

ROUT INE

COUNTRY

DATE OF

INFO

1954

TDCS- 314201684-64

057216 пue0с 1964

SUBECT

ACC MUSSTON CON ME CENARVIPILOTS

PLASE &

DATE ACO

SOURCE

ANO

APPRASAL A

"ESTERE eUSINES

HELD APORTNO!

8 52651

4CL-2805

(O) PROM AN CH-LATANGA

MERCENADY Y

1. $T 2,80 HOURS ON 14 AUGUST 64, MERCENARY AIR VORCE CONMANDER

JEREY AH PUREN, MES. PUREN AND THE MERCENARY PILOTS, JAMES HEDGES,

REOL FINGISAN ALIO FETER MICKINTOSH, ATTENDER A BRIEFING ON THE MILITARY

SITUATION SINCE AT CONGOLESE NATIONAL ARMY (ANC) HEADQUARTERS BY

BELGIAN COLONEL (ENU) SOUZIN. FROMINA! THE PILOTS SAID AFTERNARDS,

TUE 1N900E OF INE SEIEFING DAS TO PREPARE IMEM FOR A MISSION TO

dece: CONGO PREMIFE MOIGE TOMONGE ATTACHED GREAT IMPORTANCE, THEIR

¡T WAS A RECONNAISSANCE MISS ON IN THE VICINITY

DE LAREDORG, ACRE THERE-IS AN ANE TRAINING: SCHOOL THAT MUST BE HELO

•ADARLE ING HONGUS, BOUZIA REPOPTECLY TOLO THE PILOTS THAT LULUABOURO

SECRET

no deres cuartiste

MA!!

ES MESPi MSA NIC AD USA OCI ORA OKE. ON$ 00

---

## Page 115

SECRET

riend is

TDCS -314/01694-64

10 feet visa

SISTERED ANG MENDS, ALTHOUGH SCAROUNDED BY REBEL FORCES.

2. ANESE TOO BRICFING, THE PILOTS INQUIRED AS TO THE AVAILABILITY

CE FUNG SONDENT: HOLETS, PARACHUTES, MAPS, ETC, BOZ IN PEPLICO,

MAS AMERICANS HANG IT. WE WILL TRY TO GET DU FROM THEM. - THOSE AT

THEN RIERO REPORTED ANGE SCUZIN MAD TRIED TO DISCOURAGE THEM AND

"CONDUSTED HIS SPIEFING IN THE MOST SKETCHY FASHION, PUREN AND THE OTHER

PILOTS THEN WENT TO NDOLO AIR FIELD TO FREPARE FOR THE MISSION.

NAS. PURER OSTURNGOLTO THE MEMLING HOTEL.

3: A (BRE CURS, PUREN AND KINN TOOK OFF IN ONE OF THE T-6'S,

HEDGES AND MACK INTOSH IN ANTHER. BOTH PLANES WERE COMPLETELY

STO SPED DENSE NO MELNETS, NO PARAGHUTES, NO RADIOS, NO ARMS, NO

MAPS; BUT FUREN INSISTED ON GOING. BEFORE THE FLANES TOOK OFF, MRS.

FUREN GAVE EACH OF THE FOUR MEN BED WHICH SHE HAD RECEIVED FROM ANC

CONANDER-INECHIEF MAJOR-GENERAL LOSEPH MOGUTU. THAT SAME MORNING.

•SHE NEPT IN: GAME AMOUNT FOR HERSELF AND DISTRIBUTED THE SAME AMOUNT

ALSO TO EACH OF THE FOLLOWING: MERCENARY COMMANDER MICHAEL HOARE,

HiCKS,

ANO PATRICK O'MALLEY.

4. THE LEG FLANES WERE SURPOS

I TO HAVE RETURNED LATE ON 14

AUGUST, BUL AT SIR MOURS. 15 AUGUST, HOARE DISCLOSED PRIVATELY

TMA: HE NAD HERED NOTHING AND EXPRESSED CONCERN AS TO WHAT MIGHT HAVE

HESPENCO TO THE FOUR MaN.

S. FieLd

CISSEM:

STATE ARMY NAVY AIR CINCHEAFSA.

LEN2 OE. MESSAGEL

SECRET

9 PRAI DE

---

## Page 116

SECRET

NOTE:

SEE INSTRUCTIL

ON REVERSE SIDE TYPE OF PRINT

201 PERSONALITY FILE ACTIUN REQUEST

RED/ 2911Se

3003. CA-20

TO:

FROM:

Tube Address DW-6

nastier

SEX

DATE:RE BIRTH

1S DOCUMENT SYMBOLD IMPE?

D. COUNTRY OF BIRTH

I OCCUPATION (clear tard)

25 ATe..

..".

RESIDENCE

COURTRY OF LOCATION

INFORMATION AODRESSEIS

CRYPTONTE

•DIGNATURE OF ANQUESTE&

CODE

19. ACTION DESA

I Cook

• HAND CARRY OR SORWARD HY TUBE IF TRUE NAME APP-ARS AHOVE.

74: B

831

SECRET

118-981

---

## Page 117

HIG

SECRET

207

THEOR CONDU FION

HAD NOT BEEN RECO

FROM QUANZA.

7÷353

OnE RESO

FORCE TO 703 CO

THE FIRST ONE SHAUSO EE ASSE

WEEK BEGINNING & SURES

25:08

BIS

AS

12A5N

THE STARin

LATER. 263/091

CORANS

IN THE CHAN CO CONANDO AS GONGED KEES DOERTO, GRE COLAND RADE PIER

RUN FROM TONGISE TO NGSUTO TO US-GENERAL/ LOUIS SOBERO TO MONTES

ANO THE VIROLE DACE WALE BEING CRATES NGO THE ANGE EENRO SAIG

HAS CHRISTENED THE GEERATICINE NOT TE NE COLANDO-ANER ECSOZO.

HE MODEO, IS NEW WALENG FOR GALET MAGNA; AND TERRE IS A POSS-

¡BILITY TRAT HE AND ALASTAIR MONE, THIS SECONO-DA-CONANO, WICH

EE FLOWN THERE CN TRE TROGS-ORTLEROCUST, EUARE SAID HE IS PRE-

PARING ALIST OF THE SURFLIES AND EQUIPNENT EE WILL NEED AND CLALNES

THAT MORUTO MORERO, WITAGUE MORGALLY SAYENG SORE THAT THE RESE COULD

BE MENDES ARTER ROARE RAO FERSORELLY CHECKED OUT THE SITUATION.

5. "HEARE SALD THAT THE MALLERY GENECTIVES AS HE SEES TEEniE

TO BE CANONO, MONGOLO ANO ALEBERVVELEO RE PLANE TO SEND PATRICK

O VALLEY. WHO ARRON LEOPOLDUELLE ONS AUGUST ESTENSTERY AS

MAGON CONTACLE

sent. in;

4-42

---

## Page 118

1731

SECRETE

lorelligence Information Cable.

• PRIORITI

TDC3-31/01366-6

6 aumar 196

Sentin

Eurones

444755

ACe: 2155

DO ON 5 AUDUST DAL MEREMIAN PUREN, ONE OF THE WHITE MERCEMARIES

MON IN SCOPOLOVILLE, SALO PRIVATELY THAT MUSCO MALICIOMA, CHER S

De CABINET TO PREMIER NOISE TSH

ADE AND HIS LIAISON OFFICER WITH THI

MERCENARIES, HAD SCOH MUM AND: JAMES

ES AT L9RS HOURS. MALOSIONA

TOLO THIN THAT TSAONDE, INTERIOR MINISTER GODEFROID MIMONGO, AND CONGO-

LESS NATIONAL AST (ANC) COMMANDER IN CHIEF MAJOR-GENERAL JOSEPH

MOGUTU MAD MET THAT SANE DAY AND DECIOCO THAT THE EUROPEAN HERCEM

APIES NOULD BE USED: AND THAT PUREN WOULD BE IN CHARGE OF THE AIRFOREE.

(INTOPIANI COMMENT, KALICIONI iS VERT CLOSE TO ISHONSE AND HAS

ACCESS TO HIM AT ALL TIMES. I

SECRET

ДЗАРР. ТРЯ

en 103359/1200

970 auc

---

## Page 119

SECRET

TOOS: 341/00365-6

7 24255

ON 5 AUGUST, MICHAEL MOARE, MERCENARY COMANDER, SAID PRiVATE

LY THAT KALIBION MAD TOLD NIM CN 3 AUST THAT MOSUT INTENDED TO A

USE THE MITE MCSCOHARIES IN THE DEFENSE OF STANLEILE:

COMMENTA STAALONVILLE POLL TO THE REBELS ON S AUGUSTO) IN RELATINE

THIS, HOARE COMPENTCO THAT TICIR DPLOTMENT IN TMIS TASNION HOULO

MAVE BEEN "FATAL" AND THAY THEY MOULO ALL MAVE BEEN SLAUGHTERED.

30 ON THE SANE OCCASION, MONRE PRIVATELY EXPRESSED CONCERN THAT

THE CURPENT HESITATION" OVER USING IME MERCENARIES MIGNT CIO WITH

THE IR ALL SCINO ASKED TO LEAVE, MOARE CLAIRED THAT THE PRINCIPAL

REASON TOR THE DELAY IS BELGIAN PRESSURE. THE REASON FOR THE PRI

LIS THE TARGAT BY INSURGENT LEADER CASTON DAILE SOUMTALOT, COMMINOR

IN THE CASTERN CONDO, TO KILL THE IRS CUROPTAIS NOW MELO IN ALDERT

VILLE 15 THE MERCEBARIES DO INTO ACTION., MOAPE COMICITED THAT TIF

THE SITUATICA WARRANTS, " ME INTENOS TO ASI MOBUTU TO APPOINT HIM

TOMIS STATE IN NADVISORY CAPACITY. ME WILL THEN SUOMIT A PLAN

FOR THE RECAPTURE OF ALBERTVILLE. HE WILL ASS MOBUT FOR 188 MEN

AND AUTHORITY TO USE APPRUXIMATELY 18 EUROPEANS.

SO PINFORMANT COMMENTA

PRESUMABLY THE NUCLEUS OF THIS GROUP LOULD BE- THE MERCENARIES ALRCADY

IN LEOPOLOVILLE.)

. THE PLAN WOULD INVOLVE THE USE OF THE CAKE TANGANTIMA

STANER, "BARON CHANIS". MONRE MOLO USE IT AS A TROOPSHIP, HE

CLAIMS IT CAN CARRY SE MEN FOR A SHORT HALL. ME SAID HE LOULD MAVE

LHE STUP

SECRET

---

## Page 120

SECRET

rocs: 319/01366-64

30 44755

Downshi

ANS POSSICLY CONTINUE ON TO MORA, MICH IS ON THE LANE, NEAR BALDONIS

AVILLE CIELO COMMENTA THE PLAN, AS RECEINCO NO DOVIGUSLY

COPIETE, AS CONUSING.

UVIRA-IS IN

RICEL HANDS, RIGORA IS

ON THE OTHER SIDE OF THE LAKE IN TANCANYINA, PERHAPS, MOARE MEANT

THAT THE FORCE ASGARD THE BARON CHANIS" LOULD ATTACK LVIRA: BEFORE

PROTTTOIRO TO ALBERMILES)

¡DARE IS SECOND-ALCOMAND, ALASTAIR VICKS, MAO LEFT LEOPOLO

FILE ON TAURUST FOR JOHANNESBURG IS NOW IN SALISBURY. FROM THERE

ME HA: TELEPHONED THAT RADOESIAN AIR SERVICES (RAS) IS NOW SOLAR 0

INFORMANT COMMENT.

THIS MUST BE A REFERENCE TO LURLIER

PENIS TO USE THE RAS TO SUPPORT THE MERCENARO ACTIVITINE IN THE CONCO!

THE FORMER KATANIA MERCENARY, "309" DENARD IS MCT IN TEMEN

HEERED..

ME IS ACTUALLY IN PARIS, RECRUITING MEN THERE FOR SERVICE

/ICLO DISSEMO STATE ARMY NAVY AIR: CINCHEAPSA.

LICKET

(END OF MESSAGE)

BO PREEN OCTEN:

---

## Page 121

135 g

3S6 SCE

BONCAF 3

CAR NOTIFICO ANO COPY TUETO ATRINIDO, 3E UL 64 LAGD

PADDP, C/S02 6/g1 2, VR

SEC R DT 2711132

INEO PRIORITY DIR CITE

NG Crui

31 08/040 VOs

PYGAT/ SECAROE

REF.

3N34 860

SECARCES VIFE DELIVERED AIFLETTER POSTED JOBURS 24

JULY:

STATES SECARDS ACTUALLY LEFT JOBURG EVENING 25 JULY, CARRYING

LETTER. GALLEY STILL IN JOBURG, TALKED TO HER

ON PIONS 2'5

2.

SUMMARY LETTEP FOLLOWS: LEAVE THIS EVENING

PHODESIA.

ATO CERVICE CHARTER DO-A, CAPTAIN MULLOCK. WHOVE

• AUTHORIZATION

FOP MOVEMENT. RESTS. ON ONE TELEGRAM FROM ISHONZE WHICH COLONEL

GUY• SESECURITY HELD WAS AMSIGUOUS. TOUCH AND GO UNTIL 1ACO

HOURS WHEN GUYS FINALLY GAVE GO AUSAD.

3. PUREY-ROT HIS SOUL-HAD PROMISED CONTACT SECURITY

THIS MORNING, INSTEAD LEFT LAST NIGHT WITH

WICKS,

HEdGES,

AND AREN PILOTS INCLUDING FACILITOS PUREN VERY UNPOPULAR WITH

SECURITY AT MOMENT, OUR SELVES ALSO

MO, AFOUT iS MEN, ALL OTHER RANKS, FLY WITH ME TONIGHT.

EXPECT SECOND FLIGHT WILL SE IN T-LE DAYS TINE. MEAN HILE

BUSY DENYING WHOLE THING TO THE PRESS WHO HAVE THE STORY,

PROFABLY FROM ONE OF THE MEN IN PUSE INEVITABLE.

SECRET

¿ClE PROHISITES

---

## Page 122

SACaLLEST

and:

ARRCK

NEy CRONCA NUON DHNTER CUNGH THAN LAST FA

26EUSGERS

RAS, SHCULS CATE rOOp SCLOTERS. BEG PASY CTALTANS,

Nato ameio Gh t6cнos Nhod: Shpues х311 лок лонх пок 153.012

DIRECTIVES RARSE GOD. PUT CUPRASIS ON YSUNG GNO ACTEVE E

•JOS TIYA CUSOSS SONGIEBEKS RANLITI (siretes smoasigx

5S THAT- SY DERST ORDER WAS OFE ALL SSARRS, ANG

OWN•

E CRES

SECRET.

---

## Page 123

Sete 2957 de E-grans, (36

Forceses a bae saces

3e 25

De? eises, 2 cove ser /2955

WiCKS, Alistair

SECRET

Inelligen.@@lodernation Corve

o Cintad

copos cara soul

BAR NE.

121/

16-04

Minis

Mid,

A1.o

391d

889: 8.8 10918

1r.001928 100:10918. 60).à

Maeotis.....

oite eles os do ty

responditio

trein the gritte

r4.4

iNVI

tente, lida

112615.

1Xt1,1

10.

LIAD

cir1105r

.•:.

84-11.9409

1HN93

....

---

## Page 124

SECRET

CouN

BARE OP

12/

CONTEÁL PATSANGENCE AGENCY

Intelligence Infonnanen Cable

cooo erreiie / s00r9-000100

Je secuss 1960

1 nice tas

DESTA 16 AUENDR 1S64

#Le nett

LATI ACO

•Di

52

0929013051

oder oie racis de more !

1a ON 15 AUDUST SA, MERCENAPY COMMANDER MICHAEL HDARÉ SAID PRIVATELY

THAT, DESPITE THE ASSURANCES SIVEN BY PROMIER MOISE TSMONBE ON 13

#'CUST, THE LATTER DIO NOT CONVORE HIM, MIS SESOINO-IN-CONANO

ALASTAIR WICHS; MERCENARY AIR FORCE CONCER JEREMiAN PUREN AND MÃS..

PUFER ON DÒ ALGUST TO COMPLETE THE NEGOTIATICHS ON PAY AIT ALLOHANCES

AND SIGN A CONTRACT FOH THE RIS-ODO EURSOLAN MERCENARIES ISHPHOL

WISHES EPUUGA? TO THE CONCO• (FIELO COMCHTE: FOR THE CVENTS OF 13

AUGUST, IN THE COUPSE OT WHICH ISHDRE GAVI SUEH AN ASSUPANCE,

SIE ACL-EISE) (T005-318101797-098

2. REVERTHELEÃS, AT IRDE MEURS, ANS, PUEON GENT TO THE OÏFICE

SECRET

---

## Page 125

SECRET

DCS 310/0:69316

OF CONGOLESE NATIONAL ARMY (ANC) COMANDER-INCHIER MAVOR-GENERAL

JOSEPH MOSUTUSTO DISCUSS THE FIMANCIAL AND ROMINISTRATIVE SITUATION

OS THE MERCEMARIES ALREADY IN LEOPOLOVILUE MO THE NEED FOR NOO ITION

CUNOS TO RECRUIT THE OTHERS STILL NEEDED, AT 1730 MCURS, SHE

SUDDENLY PRODUCIO FACA HER MANOLAG A CHECH FA TE EQUIVALENT. IN BÉLGIRI:

TRINES OF APPROXIMATELY GORDO POUNOS STERLING, DRAWN ON A DELGIAN SANN,

WHICH SHE SAID SHE MAD RECEIVEO THAT HORNINO FROM MOEUTU BUT WHICH

SHE HAD WAITEO UNTIL THAT MOMENT TO MENTIOR. AT FIRST, HOARE SAID,

IT: SEEMPO IMOROBAELE THAT THE CHECK COULO DE CASHED: HOWEVER,

THRUSH THiL INTERVENTION OF MOBUTU, APS, PUREN FINALLY MADE ECATACT

WITTI A "HISH-LEVEL SURETE OFFICIAL" MAN CASHED TIE CIECK i Ü.S..

PILLARS, IN FIFTY-COLLAN AND ONE HADRED DOLLAR BILLS. (FIELS CONTINT:

A. FAIRLY CELIABLE SUUREE, A HIGH PANTINO NATION GURETE DEFICIAL,

"SEPORTS THAT THE CHECK IN QUESTION WAS FOO !. IDO, ONE OCISIAN FRIS,

PAYRILE BY THE GRADE NATIGUALE DE BELGIQUE TO MISS LE, RINGEREZ.

ENCHANT? IS MAD. PUREN'S MAIDEN HAMCE)

" ¡DURE THEN SAID THAT, PERMERS SECAUSE OF MIR HUSHIN'E ASSENGE

A SPECIAL MISSION, ENE DIS MOTELY TO HAALESSURS WITH THE ICE!

PA: TAG: 14 AUGUST ALITALIA SLICHT AS SHE MAC OR PASSION GUSO.

FUELE CORPITE FOR PETALLE ON THE MISSIEN, SEE ME-ZORSI SME 15 PiON

MNEY. IN A GOTCHAL DO MER LEGAOLOVILIE MOTEL RI

AT ORE IN UPE CR TA AUST, PRADE DECLERS TRI.

TEASE 2040, CONTAGE

test;

SECRET

---

## Page 126

SECRET

Mind ey

TDCS • 310/0: 583-0

58636

PAOE

THEMSELVES ON ON THE FLIGHT AS SCHEDULED, THEY LEFT, AND ARS. PUREN

WILL "PRESUMABLY" FOLLON ON 19 AUGUST, THE REXT AVAILABLE FLIGHT.

MONRE COPLAINCO MAT THE CONTRACT IS ALL DRANI UP, LICKING ONLY

THE FINAL PAY RATE ANO ISNONBEIS SIGNAVURE. (SOURCE

COMMENT: HOARE HAO PREVIOUSLY SAID THAT HE IS ASKING FOR A

BASE PAY OF 1US POUNDS STERLING PER MONTH FOR THE CALISTED NEH, WITH

ALLOWANCES THAT COULD BAINS THE TOTAL UP TO 225 POUNOS STERLING.)

SE ON HOARE'S INSTRUCTIONO, O'MALLEY WILL PROCEEO AT LUCE FROM

JOHANNESBURS TO SALISSURY AND STAND BY THERE FOR TURTHER LORD DEFORE:

STARTING RECRUITING. MICKS MAS IRSTRUCTIONS TO START RECRUITING

INMEDIATELY IN JOHANNESSUAGO:

5. PICLO DISSEMI STATE ARNY NAVY AIR CINCREASSA:

SECRET

AND OF MESSAGI

- Emand bion Cardo

I FEELE RA

---

## Page 127

$ 1533

..a rans a

SEGRET

CASTIAS DITEMS INCA SOTHCT

Intelligence laloraron Cable

ica Amusine

TDC! - 314/01 739-0

mure 1o cars? 190

run.

man, i costen

5:452

MILD MION MOL ACE PIES

A CALY

- ¡ LATE ON IS AUGUST EL MERCEMART COMMADIA MICHIEL MDARE SAID.

PRIVATELY TARY AT INSO YOURS THAT SAVE DAY, ME LAD ALASTAIR WICKS,

HiS SECCIA-COMMO, MERCENARY AIR FORCE COMMANDER JERCUlA PITEN

AND URE PREN MEY MITH CONCOLESE MATICRAL LANY CANC! COPPENDER-IN-

CIRCE IARCURGTIEPAL JOSE MONUTES TUE EMIARIPAL DECISION REACMET

WAS TIM: MARE'S MERCENARY FISGE, MET FERNEO, WiLD DE "AUTONADUS"

"AI:DIANENI: FRESCALLY THIS MANS IT HERO MI DE DRIEDEC

WITH ATMID ANT DITCAD THE CARE CACASIO MACRES BAS THAT WAS

SECRET

1'48 mon

ams

15 Fl36 l

---

## Page 128

251931

SECRET

DAN 00

TC: 310/0139-04

8 and

(RIELO CORONT, TOA AN CAPLICA REPLIENCE TO PRIS MUOISEE

ACL-27883

2.

AT IRSO HOURS, TOARE, WICKS AND THE AURENS SAW PREMIER MOISE:

ISHOMEE, THE MELTINO LASTED 'EXACTLY TEN MIMUTES." ISHONDE ASHEE

PUREN 1E ME MOULO ACCEPT THE MISSION OUTLINEO BY MOBUTU ON 11 ALDUST

PUREN "CAGERLY" DID. 50.

HOARE COMMENTED THAT THIS APPEARCO TO HAVE

BEEN THE SOLE REASON FOR TSMAR 'S MAVING WISHED TO SEE THEM.

TSHOMEE, ME SAID, APPLARCO ILOLY EXCITEO, "

(FIELD CONMENTI

TOP DETAILS OF THE MISTION, SEE SELONI AND ACL-2788

1...

1065-314/01832-681.)

30 AT 150E HOURS, THEY AGAIN SAN MONUTU, UNO. TOLO THEM THAT A

SECOND APPOINTHENT HAD BEEN MADE FOR THEM WITH. ISHONBE FOR 1709 MOUHS

TO SETTLE THE LAST DETAILS AND SIGN THE CONTRACT, HOWEVER, AT 17088

HOURS THEY NEPE TOLD TO RETURN NO HOURS LATER. THEY RETURNED

AT I9NE MOURS, FOUNO MOLUTE WAITING AND, AT 152S HOURS, WERE ALL

ADMITTED TO TIMAGE'S PRESCICE, ISHONDE GAVE THEM INSTRUETIONS

TO "RETAKE THE CONDO"S MORE SPECIFICALLY, MANDAO, RCAGOLO, ALDERE-

VILLE, LVIRA, STARLEYVILLE, IN THAT ORDER. ME PROMISED ALL SUPPORT,

WITNUT GESTRICTIONE CE ANY PI, MAICH, MDARE LATER COMFRICO.

WES "RATHER DISTIDIN AND A DIT TOO MUTH OF À SOOG THING,"

MiSARE

ALSO MPET TILT NEITIR ISMINCE NOR INTU SEEMED PARTICULARIY

COMCCENCO AS TO ME THE ICE DAS DOE PAUVIDEO IT WAS DOIL.

SECRET

91200 23

---

## Page 129

SECRET

WILH THE GUESTION CE THE CONTRACT CAME UP, ISHONES APPEARED LASTLET

TO CORE WITH IT THE, DO MADE ANOTHCR APPOINTMENT FOR THEM, FOR RE

MOURS OUTS AUCUST. TSMONDE SCEMED TO MDARE FIT OUT ENTREMELY

*TIRES."

THAT VIETS, PATRICK-OMALLEY AND MRS POCIWILL

DO 19 MOIANNESOURO ASGARO THE IN ANUST ALITALIA FLIGHT. ME COMENTS

TUAT IN WAS NOW LESS VAGENT FOR WICKS TO ACCOMPAM HIM TO RAUNA,

AS PIANICO, LUI THAT RECRUITIRE CONTINUES TO MALE A RICH PRIORITYO

IN'JOTRINNESEURO IN 15 AUGUST, WISHE WILL ALERT THE MEN WAITIN

THERE AND SHOULO SE ASLE ROARE ESTIMATEO, ARRANSE TO HAVE SO OF

IT ERO ROADE TO FI: TO FAMILY 18 AUGUST AND 20 MERE ONE AIGUST.

LATER DIE IS ALDUST, WILES WILL FLE CHI TO SALISEURY, WHERE LE IS TO

RECHUIT AS CAPiT ME AT DOSSIBLE, GUT NOT LESE THAN SO. MORGE, SAID

HE HAS CLEARINCE PEDA THE SUTHERN RHODESIA SECUPIT! SERVICE FOR THIS

NE A'DEO THAT THE "FIRST IRE ARE CITAL, " THAI ME PERIO

ISRE AT LEDGE ARCTRO IS INT COULO USE AS MANY AS MORS CAN R015E."

" PNE PURIN WILL FERON DO LLOPCLOVILLE CODE DOOSTA TOE HUME!

ANATOR MESSERARI PILOTS WILL PRO GELY ROMAN MESE CITH HE MINUSE.

12.a9 it

SECRET

a VACAN COUNTE DES

1 tea da

I PASI AT

---

## Page 130

SECRET

0C3-316/01759-0

OMOB

74

HOPE FOR." ANONS THE VAPIOUS ADVANAGES ARE THE FACT THAT "NO BELGIANS'

ARE BETIGEN MINSCUS NO THE AT COMMAND AND THAT HE WILL HAVE A:

"HOT LINE" DIRGÉT TO MOSUTU, ¡E NOTTO THAT ADEQUATE MIPELESS SETS.

ARE ESSENTIAL, AND THAT THESE MAY NOI SE IMMEDIATELY AVAILABLE.

HE ALSO NOTED THAT "THE DIFFICULTY WOULO NOT BE IN TAKING TOWNS GUT

iN MOURN THEN CACE TAKEN. " HENCE THE NECESSITY FOR TRAININS

GARRISON TROOPS TO TALE CVER WEEN THE MERCENARY FORCE MOVES ON.

HE HAS ALREADY SUGGESTED TO MEUTU THAT ME COME PERSONALLY TO KAMINA

TO CONDUCT AN INSPECT:ON THE WEEKS AFTER HIS OWN ARRIVAL THERE.

HE ADDED THAT HE HAD 'I VERY MIDS CPINION" OF MEBUTUSS CAPABILITIES.

TO FIELO DISSEA: STATE ARMY NAVY AIR CINCMEAFSA.

SECRET

---

