# 104-10070-10117

## Page 1

104-10070-10117

UNCLASSIFIED

INTORMAL

USE 0HL0

ROUTING

AND

SUDIECT, (Optional)

Raymond G. Rocca j

C/CI/R&A

TO, (Ories dalenation, rees mumbor, and

Cullina)

DATE

RECEIVED

FOSWARDED

C/EUR/Netherlands

482629

AC/EINR

CHATORIA POL SECAT

RECORD

SH 2aT

EX - 2066

1 March 1968

1653

CANCERS

3.

RIDAN

dit

6:% please classify

+0-201-155-721

(willian oltie

and indes none of James

Garrison, New Dress

Dismict Attorney

10.

10.

210/55

12.

09.

14.

89:

PATRACT

INDEE

RD AREPRODUCTIONS

610 na [

SECRET

CONFICEHTIAL

201-155-221

UNCLASSIFUED

$9125

---

## Page 2

14-00000

larch. lyrt

MEMÜRANDUM

SUBJECT:

6456:57

9 Garrison and the Kennedy Assassination:

Interview of Garriaon on Dutci TV by

Willem L. Olt.nans (201- 155221)

REFERENCES: A. Joint State-USIA cable, HGM 553.

HAGUE - 3981, 24 February 126.i°

B.

The Hague 3870, IN 59004,

27 February 1969

District ATTOrNEy

SUMMARY

Simonies

Garrigon appeared

on Dutch TV on 22 February 1963.. He

continued -- In fact, escalated - hia attack upon CIA in a persuasive

nerformance. There la a poseibility of a follow up program in

Holland and replaye elsewhere in Europe. Garrison's intervlewer,

Nullam! Oltnana, is a Dutch pro- Communiot, altbough he pretende

not to be, and a homocemal who seoma to ve or to have been Intimate

with es- Pregident Sukarno os indonsala.

-Conaldoration da boing ¿iven 8o forwarding to tha Station at

The Flagus overt dorogatory Information abous Carstoon froin the U.S.

prodo and TV/radio interviewo for saboare to CA addle thoro.

DETAILS

1. - Roforences orato that on 22 February 1968 Garaloon

appeared on Dutch TV (Dutch Tolevicion Foundation, NTS) during

prinie time for ons hour (kimo not stated). Netther soforence esplains

whether. Garrioon travellod to Tha Hague of whother she how was

taped in the U.S. and sent on lape to Holland.. The Dusch dek belleve»

that the latter do true.

LOTIONS

CARO

• COPY•

*81-155791

---

## Page 3

14-00000

•2. The following were Garrioon'o charges:

* Konnady was nurdared because ha favored a

datante catrimontal to tha interoato of the "inilitary.

induatsial comples".

b. Kennady wao tha victm of a ClA pies. CIA

hao inado cominon cause milt the militasy Industrial

cotabliohment becauso of a veerod lateroot ls maintaining

the cald war.

c. CIA da committad 80 tho lond was in Adia.

charedo ona al Proolden isonody's laos ordare directed

a reducalon of treopo there.

d. A U.S. precidant who bringe the U.S. to tha

brink of paoco will oullo: Kennody'o fate.

8.. Nobod way the prograin had been dosigrod for

a Europosa audianco. Garnloon enid that tho growing

¡olivanco el CIA a U.S. modia had made il Impossiblo for

him to bo hoard in hid own counry.

Roference A caya Corsica, calm and sempocod. 50a

oultictonly crediblo to olicit salhar lavorable ravlowo from gonerally

Doll talormad Duch soworapara.

"ovoral Duch viamero sino.

otations."

1. Roforenco D cayo that lia Dateà prodd tas gonerally favorablo

and thas many commonly nated ha poemod locical and in coussel ca hig

foeto." Tha majority opinion among Embasay, Val, Cad CLA portersal

OS TRO HagUO 10 Rhat LO COOmOd ereCblo to a lasta prepartica cita

Dasch vowess.

SYMPATIIZER 1Y icolo Chasiera prograra crosted an.

allotimo don in tho U.0.. Imago ln to Nathariants. Ditch TV alluded

to a third part of the daterniot, celll to come.

S. Carsieca cao intereowod by Willam L. Oltmano.

aynopolo sogarding Oltmana followe:

2 %

---

## Page 4

14-00000

a. DIUB 1u June l42o Hulzen, The Netherlando.

u. Studied at Yale 1950 jut excelled for unatated

nabehavior.

c. Thereafter worked orielly as correapondent

jur U.?. and for butch japer De Tolegrasd but doindoned

my bosh for unotarod cause.

d. An FBl report o1 1900 atarco that lie callo

isdinoelf ant-Conmuniot but espressed the views "of a

great admirer of coramundam".

6. An I&NS report of 1961 liate hio addreds for

:900-1961 a0 118-09

83rd Ave., Kow Gardens, Long loland,

New York.

f. A CIA report oi 1961 lioto hin as a UN

corroopondont then planniog an unopongorod trip to Euos

Gormany, Poland, Csochoolovakia, and Hungary. Duich

correspondents sold that thay had yet to coo a atozy written

by him. When he applied for memberchip in the UN

corraopondento apacelation, he mao unable to produco a

oingle clipping in ouppost of the application.

He travelo

extensivoly. Ho has excellent contacte in all Communiat

countrion including Cuba.

insinato frioad ol the thon Prosidont of Indonado, Sukarno,

and as having trted for five yoare to arrango contacro

"for Sularno in Holland.

An k'Di roport of 24 November 1961 reotatos

tho above ond acids that he had been separated or divorced

from hio American ule la monthe earlier becasoo "he la

nos a man". Ho wao linag wish a male as she lime a tha

roport.

1. An FBI report o! I February 1962 Included an

incorvlow with the er-wile f'rloda Bloling (oho had remarriod).

---

## Page 5

14-00000

Ex..2.060

Sie bald that her ex-hußband and Pregident Sukarno

¿vore close iriends and tnat he wrote to Sukarno at

least unce a we-sk thruughout their marrlage. Around

1957 she and Ültinana lived at the Paramount Hotel,

New Yoris, for a Mine. The Indonesian govern nent

padd their oill, which was nore than $300. She net

Sukarno through her husband in May 1959 ka Copenhagen.

At the time of the introduction Sukarno cleared the

r00n of alladvisors and bodyguards, then said to her,

"So you are s'rieda. Well, Ian Sukle." He told her

"that he looked iorward to recelving lie weekly messages

from hor husbanu and that he always read then just

vesofó he went to glee, while he was in bed.". She sadd

spat ten innutes, after her wedding core nony with

Stnians was ovor, the was alons. Her father, she

bald, learned that Ultnans had a police racord for

malenting young joys in Amotordain. She obtained a

Mexican divorce In 1960. She said that Olénano is at

lonet intellectually a Conmuniet and bellever Communio

to be the econointe eyelem of the future.

HAGU:- 1365,, 24 October 196é, Baye Ultinans

WORe pro-Lunu on articlea in 1960, voiced Cuba in 1902

and perhapa 1963, devoloped irondly relationg with

Clycolas at The Hayue and may have voltod Cluna in 1464.

•In Auguat 196, ho appilod for a Chicom vloa at The Haguo.

k. An FBI report of 12 May 1967 payo thas Olenana

¡choaned to navo writton for Rainuarto an article about CLA

In Indonadia. No such article has been found.

6. Reforence B sequented background information auour

Carrioon's nontal heolth and

partornanco do a public official. A

suminary as darogatosy information froin overt U.S. ¡nedia for lhe

paot yoor (March 1967 to March 1861) has boon compilod do reaponso.

ay. A docialon will coun be ado de 8o wholhor part or all, al this naterial

hay se sensio the Station

---

## Page 6

14-00000

£X-$946

Distribution:

: Or$8 - DOs

1 • DDP, ADDP

- A/ DCI

Eur/ Netherlands

Office of General Counsel

Office of Security

1 = C/CI. DC/CI

1 • ReA chrono

1 • DP reporte ille

•5

ES•CU.

206 185221

---

