# 104-10125-10400

## Page 1

104-10125-10400

Sorre ton A REPROBUCTION

and spotter for Corsicans,

abilit do this son for us,

but once selection made, DEFIGRAM to be eliminated. (D-PIGRAY believes

KUBARK handling as matter of convenience in behalf of larcotice Burenu.

(a) Triestino safecracker.

(2) GIBACON) Chief of Detectives

• Thoroughly acruainted Trieste

Purpose is selct Triestino or teamina with Corsicans, split

them after job done.

Possible find Iriestino spealing German as well

as Italia.

Fossible German documentation?

3) Siragusa, Asst Deputy Narcotics Commissioners

as source on Corsicans

and Sicilians: mery him whether District #2 (NY NJ New Enrlam)

has West Indian colored contacts usable for our purposes.

(4) Earl:son) contant: (Vincent Capone), Rome, Americin Citizen, has

clarance, good potential PA, experienced with criminals; educated

England and US.

Milan offers good possibilities of findine safecrackers and deme

doament-suppliers.

(5) Clarkson) contact Florence: Robert CORBISERO, bar owner, speaks

Italian, German, English, mg t orough knowledge underworld Antwerp

and Brussels and working knowlede underworld Frankfurt, Colome, Nice.

Chief of Criminal Investiration

I has too expert

safecrackers who were introduced to

Knowledreable northern

using Smith's name as reference with him

(9) For trng purpose: French con ercial film Rififi: can be obtained

t ru Jean Napote, Asst SecGen of Interpol; excellent detail on plannin

and execution of

safecrackins job.

SECRET

0003337

1:43

33

PACE

COPY NO.

---

