# 104-10004-10202

## Page 1

104-10004-10202

UNCLASSIFIED

TERNAL

JE ONLY

CONG

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

ENTIAL

SECRET

SUBJECT: : (Optional)

E FROM:

Jobn so Waltter

с/w/s

TO: (Officer designation; room number, and

building)

DATE

c/CI

RECEIVED

•DEG

EXTENSION

5613

OFFICER'S

, INITIALS

FORWARDED

2.

9.

NO.

DATE

COMMENTS (Number eoch comment lo show from whom

to whom.

Draw a line across column affer each comment)

Attached fer your informtion

cemento and comecties to the

ordelnal, merpurgated version of

the report on GRILOOR covering

OSHAL's stay in Mexico and sna

cluding sumartes 'et the telephene

Intercepte.. Tnts my to unes to

your analysts we are arcoessing

the rest of the natertal end to the

people separing the final raport.

Ia writing thie we, & hate mee

certaln coments and inaulged in e

certein arount of analyose, because

the nated facts seened to call for

Sto

Those thoughts are sy own.

Jeol saue to make your own analysta

¿§ Jon hare any corrections to make

please write them on the draft and

saturn it to no 2 vill zotur the

dest to you if you want sto

This repart was written fes Interna

use caly and was not ment to be

wed outases the Agener,

10.

11.

12

Jills Whitter:

c/wu/3

13.

14.

15.

FORM

3-62

610 USEDTIENOUS F7 SECRET

EDITIONS

17 CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

AMIIV

• UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 2

13-00000

.."

Ve Discover Lee OSHALD In Marteo CIty

...=

CIA dil produce one very alentficant plece of Inforsation en leo

OSWALD before ha shot President Kenedy. On 1 Oetober 1963, our Mexico

CIty Station Intercepted a telephone call Lee OSHALD sade from soreplace

In Hexico City to the Soviet Embasay there, using his own nome. Spenicing

broken Rusten and ustag his true nave, Oskald was talking to the labanay

sunre, OBTANDY, who often answers the phone. OBALD sate he had visited

.

the Espassy the previous Saturday (28 September 1953) end spoken to a

consul whose nan he had forgotten, and whe had pronieed to rend a tele-

was Wer

406643A012

stan for hin to lashinston. He minted to know if there vere "anything.

ner." The suard sate 1f the consul was dark it vas (Valerty Madntrovich)

KOSTINOV. The guard checked vith sonone elme and said that the menenge

had gone out but no anover had been recefved..

Fe then hung up.

This piece of information vas produced fror a telephone tep center

which ve operate

It

---

## Page 3

13-00000

T

1s blahly secret and

wbo have their on center. Our Jaint center produces great

es of telephone intercepts which are trementbed and revered by ou

all statt in Mexico City, Hy 9 October, the OSWALD teleptone couversa-

tion of 1 October had been transcribed and & sumary of it cabled to

lashington, The name Lee OSVALD mant nothing special to our Mexico

City Station, but in their report they did jullse him to be an Amrican

male.

The cabled report was received in lashington on 9 Ictober and checked

Gropean en 21200 were it on tellately noted that the Leo OSHALD pheninge dinar

the dortet Embassy In Nexico City was probably the Lee OSWALD who had

defectad to the Sortet Union 1a 1959 end returned to the USA ta 1962- On

10 Ooteber 1953, the day after the report tren Hexteo CIty, CIA Headquarters

sent out a cabled report about lee OSWAlD's phone call to the Bortet

Ambasay! the report want to the PRl, the Departzant of State (because

OSWALD vas a US citizen), and to the lavy Department (because he vas a

farmer larine.) The cabled report to these agencies highlighted the

029002

---

## Page 4

13-00000

11k11hood that the Lee OSHALD mentioned vas probably the former defector.

A copy of this son cable mas dellvered by hand to the Interation and

Intualirtion Service, with which ve have no cable link. The sane day

a. Long cablo vent out to Mexico City Informing our Station of the back-

cround of detector lee QAd and anting for more Infertion, Our Station

was Instructed to pans 1te Inforution on the phone call to the bertoo

City offloes of the FBI, the Entassy, the Kaval Attache, and the Ing

tion and Inturalisation Service. Inte was done.

In Its artetnal revort of 9 October, Murico City hed sold it bad a

apparent indrion male leavine the Borlet Embassy on pine"

1 October 1963, the day OSVALD phone there. A very sensitive operation

1n Menieo City provides us with necretly takes photographs of many but not

all viattore to the Sortet Babasey there, taken with telephoto lenses.

Accordingly, we cabled the lavy Department en 24 Vetober 1963 asking for

@ photogranh of loe OSWALD fros his Marine Corps daya so ve could compare

photos. He had not received thia photograph by 22 November 1963, but 1n

any event, it turned out that the man photosraphed outside the sortet

SECRET

---

## Page 5

13-00000

NEEDET

ucl

Babeasy vas not OSKALD anyway. As chance woule have 1t, none of our

several photo obsesation points in Murico City had ever taken an identil-

fumble ploture of Lee ONHAID.

Our Maxieo City Etation very often produces Information like thie

on Us ottisens contacting Boviet blos embarates In laxteo City. Frequently

the Inforation we set 1e extremely Incrintnating, and on one or tro

occasions ve have even been able to apprehend and retura to the USA

American military personnel who are attempting to defect. In all such

cases, our Headquarters dens requents uni obteins the special permission el

*wun the Deguty Director for Mans to pass the derogatory intortion on a US oni

citizen to other soverment agencted. Derogatory Inforation on Americane

10 not trasted routinely; in each cose the DeP or his Asststant personally

scrutinise the Infertion, it sure it in credible, and decide whether and

to vaom 1t will be pensad. Only in abaolute emergenetes 1e the Mexico City

Station authorsed to pass cuch intoration Airectly to the FBI office in

the U.S, Embassy-

At this vritine (13 Decenter 1953) ve do not know what action the FBI

---

## Page 6

13-00000

and other agencios my have tekes bored on or mport. le sumine that the

Fal my have me local chects through Meton autheritten to see 1f

Ine OSAID was notually In Mexico CIty on 1 October. Intool, later ti

vostlantion has conflined all the detalle of his trip, were he stayed,

and what he did. 1o avoid crousins lines vith the Fil, our Marteo Station

undertook no local Investigation of Its Out. As Ve NOw KaOH, OSKALD Left

Nexcleo on 3 October and was no longer thare wann our report was put out.

Since thie telephone tup operation

the Nexleane also had the 1 October Intercept on Lee OSWAID;

we word cout it apparently Mabered tn tot tiles Vittl

place

22 Hevember 1963

When vor of the shooting of Prosilent Kennedy reached the offlees

of our operating divisions and stuffs on the afteroon of Fridny 22 Nover-

ber 1963, transistor radios vere turned on everyubere to follow the .

tragedy. When the name of lee OSWALD was beard, the effect was electrie.

A phone mesange fren the FAl came at about the sme time, anning OSWALD

---

## Page 7

13-00000

as the possible asts and anting for tracei. The messe wee passed

• at oo by the Chlet CI, Mr. Angleton, to Mr. Alrch O'Heal of bia

Speeel Investis tiens init. Is Itty Ioter of tale Daft Imedtately

recognized the none of In OCHALD and vent for his file. At the same

tim, Mr, Suntos of the Naxleo Desk, who had wiltten our flat feyort on

OSHALD on IO Ontober recaptrel the none trou radio reports and vent

after the same flle. Ir. fetchhardt, Merses Dent Chlat, who was lot o

Leave, beard the nos and phoned in s rentaler that we had nonething on

OSAl, While ve were ymine a onble to Macleo City sating them for

Voîce of Americe brontest an cabled to un a renioler of the inioration

the Station had nut la on hin

For the net rust, i doren people in the Agency vere continously

ensured In handling inconing musses on the case, writing reports to be

cabled out, tracine the uns mntioned, and revearching files. Within a

wet, 27 cabled reporte bad sone out to the inite House, the State Depart-

ment, and the Mil. lury cables of guidance and Inguiry bad been sent to

---

## Page 8

13-00000

SEGRET

one overans statious, and many pieces of Informtion on OSWALD ard hle

wife inil ben received bock. The lexico City Station researched 1ts

telophone tape very thorschly nd came up with severl me conversatiens

probably Involving OSWALD, but not actually mentiontag this unas these

connected him also to the Cuban Connlate In Mendeo City. Several Mertcann

vero rested ard quentioned ebout his notivities, stving s sood pleture

of what he vas roslly up to Any conferences were held with the FaI

Lininon officer who anied in fer certain sottons and massed us Intermation

tron the Tal investition othe mins side, o host of fabricuters,

nost of which ve investigated. All of thore are soon discredited, bat they

ar still cosing 10.

During this phase of our vort, ve served pointly in sumart of the

ral, which was entrusted by the president with the major responsibility for

the Investletion. The FBI Whe too busy to supply us with mch of ite

om infanation, but anuare vre siven to spoctfle questions ve posed to

ascist our investiçation. The Department of State did photogruph Its entire

---

## Page 9

13-00000

SECRET.

file on OBALD and pass them to us, and the fal save us a copy of the

soriet Consular file on OHAID which had boas publicly elren by the sortet

Ambanador to the secretary of State. On Triday 6 Decasber 1963, Deputy

Attorney General Katzerbach Invited us to review the FBI's comprehonaire

roport on the case to nate sure our sources were not Jeopardled and that

an information ms corectly quated. ve found the report highly

Interating al no threat to ou security, as long an 1t nas read only

by the authorized lavestizative bodies.

After the first few invo, the CIA Investlention of the case was

woman/ribanded/at Anquarter by a ml1 state unilty churged with tarantigat

and alyais of the nout important security coses, and by a fer officers

and eelynts of our Vestera Feisphere Divialot.

Sensats Jean Manated

An coon as on Medico City Station realited that Les OSHALD ras the

prime surpect, it began re-sereening all the written telephone transcripte

In Its files covering the Soviet Embeasy for the pertinent period. The

actual tapes vere also revieved, but many of them bad been erased after the

SECRET

---

## Page 10

13-000,00

normal two weeks walt. Several colla belleved to involve ONWALD vere

Qincovered and thats contents embled to Washington, when they ver

dinetnated to the Wilte House, the State Departent, the Federal

Bureau of Investigation.

OGNALD's mme was not notually mentioned in these addition calls,

but sintlarity of speech ani vartous plata points of content link then

to hin these calls are amrised below In chrmological order.

They cover the perfod fren 21 Septunber 1963 to 3 October 1963, the stole

span of OSWALD'S Vielt to Maxico City as later Learned fros travel recordo,

says bo noeds a visa to so to odessa, In anomring mya he should ci

15-60-55 and ask for the Conul, Caller asts for the addreus, and 1t I

sun to his (There 1u no special mason fer linking this call to OshAld

37 September, 4:05 PM - The Cuban Consulate phoned the Sortet

consulate, Silvia Darun, Macien national clerk of the Cuban Consulate

talked to a soviet officint, sayin that a nale Americen citizen was at the

Cuban Consulate asting for a transit vira to pass through cuba on his voy

SECRET

---

## Page 11

13-00000

SECRET

to the Sovlet Union She wante to knos to unan he telled in the Seriet

Consulate and who told him he would have no roblen stout 1t. Il & soviet

VIce 1s ained, the Cuber Consulate on smt him a transhe visa ani

simply notify Cuben Imtention authorities, The Cortet M1rat anca ber

to malt, and then she has to emplato the whole thine over anin to another

Sortet Offlotal, who tabee her telephone number anl manies to call ber

baci. SIlvla DURAl conclules tate call by telling the Soviet she herself

has moved anl gives her new address for the sovlet Intanay bulletin fe

acke her to phore (Sergey Kenovich) HUNANINTO (Second Secretary who pute

mulletta) *a kAve ita the, now adore

Cultural Attache I6. Silvia DURAT givos the Attache's rare es Teresa :

PEGGIZA and mis boy telephone number.

11 September, 42P5 El - A Soviet attletal Callo SIZVIA DUBAI

back und tells ber that the "Amerlenn" badl been to see the soviet's and

chom then a letter fron the Soviet Consulate In Washington Indioating that

he hnd been waiting for vons for hiaselt and his uite to do to the sortet

Undon for o lons tine, but that no mover had core tron Hashington, adding

10:4

---

## Page 12

13-00000

SECRET

that the mult was senetimes four or five months. The "Amertenn" had

shem the Bovleto « letter shoring ho vus a mamber of an arutation 1a

favor of Cube and hall elated that the Cubans could not elve hin a vim

althout e lustan visa Slivia DINAl refairs that they have the same

problem, the "Anerican" to still at the consultes they cannot sire him a

tanait visa mleas be 1a assued of & Boviet vill, even though be just

vants to so to Cats to batt there for his soviet visa to be granted. He

does not know anyone in Cuber They end the commention on thle note.

311V1a DIAl pays thet she vill note this os his "card," and the sortet

Inconventence he he cared and Slivie DRAN stys it 1e all vlalit.

28 september - SIlvIa DURAN colle the Soviet Intary Iran the

Cuben Consulete. She anys that she has the American with her aanfe. The

Soviet anmeries ants ker to wait. When ansther soviet takes up the phone,

silvia puto the Americon at, The Anerican tries to talk hasian to the

Sorlet who answers in Engliet,. The Amerlean ats hin to pock Fussiar, The

American noys thut he had been in the Soviet lisbanay and spoken with the

SECRET

---

## Page 13

13-00000

SECRET:

Cong and that they had taim his aldress. the Soviet rapties that he

loons that. the American thon sara, soreshat entitically, "I dle not

Inow it there 1 went to the Cabon Submay to uni thee for uy anderse

becaune thay have It." The Soviet imitas hin to stop by mnin and give

then the ntaral, ent the American nerves to do so. (In this conversation,

the American sas speakins hardly recogntzable Russiat)

As fer as our records shou, OSALD did not plane the sorlet or Cuben

Snessles assfa until Tenday 1 October 1963. The Intervening days were a

Sunday and a lunday. Thn contents of his Inter colla seen to slew be

Live no need do deFends

1. Ostober, 10331. All - A san calls the Bordet Military Attache 18

broken Russian and suys ka had been at thair place the previous suturday

(28 september) and talked to thatr consul. They had sold they would send

a selorras to lashington, and he vanted to knew it then vere anything new.

The fortete act bin to call another phone wmber and Elves hin 15-60-55, 88y-

Ins to ant for & Consul.

1 October 10345 AM - (I41o to the phone call in which OSWALD

CLARET.

---

## Page 14

13-00000

used bin tras sane anl which was therefore cabled to Hashinston on 9

Ootaber 1963- Ins ONALD called the fortet lisbussy und announced hin

on name, saylig he had tufted then the previous saturiay and spoken

with a Consul. They had suld they would send a telegran to hashington,

and he rusted to know 1f thore were arything not. le did not renaber

the mme of the Consul, The soviet, who was Entesay fuard OUCEDIOV

TOyLINd: "HOSTINOY he 1a dark." OHAID replied: "yes, My see LE

OSWALD," The Soviet emused hinsel! for a linute and then suld they

hadn't received anythtus jet. OSWALD asked if they hada't done anything

y bad mont a zepest bus that nothins has been

rocited as jot." OSWILD atarted to say: "And what…..", but the Soviet:

hung up

3 Ostpber 196% • A mn mesting broken Spanish at first and tha

English phoned the Sovlet MilItary Attache anil asked about a visa. The

Attache's offioe referred him to the consulate, sivias the number 15-60-55.

The enller wrote it dom. The sttache official abruised off another

00205

---

## Page 15

13-00000

SECRET

question about whether the caller could set a vist, ad the coverention

ended. (Mere In no special reason to tlo this In vita OSWALD, the 10 now

Ion to have re-entured the ll at leredo the sume day.)

Since the oparation through which we tap the Soviet Sabansy phones

In Mexico City

the Inferention on Ida OSVALD also cane to the attention of

Procident LOP, Natoos after 22 Kovember. Te next day, 23 Fovenber, be

callad it to the attention of our Chief of Station, who me already

waricing feverishly on the case. Sinilarly, the lexicans notteed the

clear dar

Invalvement of Cuben Commular employee Silvia Dull, a Nacen natianel.

Our Station sureated that the be arented and interrogated about OstA

The Bexican antherities had the tone idea and she and her lanted vene

arrested on 23 Fovenber 1963, In the midat of e farty at their home. All

the quests vere soon released but silvin and her husband vere queutdoned

and released on 25 November 1953.

SIlvia'a husband, MoracLo DURAY Maverra, en industrtal destiner,

nold undor police Interrontion that when OSHAD was named an the sanssin

---

## Page 16

13-00000

of unident kennedy, his wife had rucognised the mme and recalled the

had walted on OSKALD shen he cane to apply for a Caber tunait vlong

he remembered she bad said she dealt ulth the Soviet Conmulete do well

to find out sether he lad a soulet vial, Hsrucio DURAN recalted his wife

bad sall OSKAID became angry and she had to call out the Cuban Consul,

Eurebto AZCUE, to quiet hill.

Silvis, DURAN told the ume otory. She ms a leftlet symathizer with

Vube and had vorted for the Merican-tuban Institute of Cultuml Aylations.

Bhe recalled OSkAiD vell, desertbed him accurately, related how he had

& Cuban Men but coura

enchant the menshe-s Somet at

visa, and renenbered his tiff with the Conual. She sautted the had phaned

the Soviet Enhasey about b

The en total of the statements of Silvia DURAN and her husbard wea

to contion that OSWALD vas in Marico to set a Cuber visa so ha could mait

In Cuba for his Soviet vies. The Soviet Consular file passed to the State

Department In Washington by the Sovlet Kabanay confinas a long exchange

between first, Mre. Marina ObullD, and later her mumband, and the soviet

---

## Page 17

13-00000

SECRET

Connulato in Hacbington about their requeste for perateston to retura to

the sortet lndon. OBVALD me at11l wlting to the Soviets in Mankington

about this us Inte an 9 Nevember 1963.

S1lvln DURAl me arrested asain on 27 Hovenber end hold unta 29

November. She told essentially the same story over nati

Well-plaeed sources within the Cube Ibasy In Mexico City stated

that when Stlvia DFAI vus relemed to poltee arrest the first time on

25 November, she was quite plened with haruelf. She told bar colleasues

the one story set out abore, ailing only that the ketcan polloe and

Milan tonatened to extradite her to tha untted states te

content tee For

OSAID. The reaction within the Cabu Imbassy to the news of Frealdout

Kamady's denth vas vonbre, To dato, there do not credibla Intoration 1n

CIA files which would emper to link Lee OVALD with the Caben goverment

or the Cuben Intallieence surice.

The whale quantion of wether loe OSWALD bad any secret comection

with the sovleta es Cuban In Mexteo cuat yet be anvered, but certain

parto of the evidenco indicate to the contrary. 311vts DURAl and the

---

## Page 18

13-00000

SECRET

sevot Commer offielale upole of him ue a ma with "no Irtanto 12 Cuba"

on the one land, and as s un not "oom" In the Soviet Enveney, on the

other. The very pennius of his vialts and the phone calle sport againat any

secret role. Ms trip to lndoo nas not 1trolf u secret soty be traveled

mãor hio real une or o clone variet of It, lived openly In Noxioes

hotela, and corerponted with the sortets thrugh the oyen mtis about

It wan he got back to the 1. His trip to lucico me apprently mode

monanny because 1t mn the nomeet Calan Alptentie Installation vssre

be could spoly for a vitt.

A perplexins aspect of OS1A12*e

the Cabana mad

Soviete In Medico City in hin anention in hio call of 28 September that he

All not lnow bio miron when he ms at the sortet Consulate and come to

the Cuben Consulate Decouse they Ind it It 10 hard to explain just what

he munt, bat 1t mould be renebered that he vas talsins in Iossias, a

Inguase he could not sanase, as that then he cane to lesteo he vas in the

procese of moving fran flew Orleen to tons. lie my not have menarised

his nor address in texas, whatever 1t was, and my not have been ablo to

SERP

---

## Page 19

13-00000

ley hande on 1t when he uns in the Soviet Consulate that day. Perhape

he hal enriter civen the address to 81lvla DURI and sinted to look 1t

up on her cards

A particularly sinister aspect of CONALD's denlings with the Soviets

In Mertee City arises from the 11k11hood that he met with Soriet Consul

Talerty Madintrovich BOStIOV. In his 1 October phone call to the

Soviet Inbeady, the guard ONInkoY susgests that the Consul OSUND had

talked to run KOBYKOT 11 he was dart. OSMID seems to agree vita this,

but the Identifleation Is very casual. In his 9 November letter to the

et 090 auste pete Secret

Soviet Conmitate in Washington, OVALD citas the rane of the nan he dealt

with as "OeT," but there is no person of that exact nose in the soviet

Bubasey In Mexieo City, KOSTIKOY 16 accredited as e Consular Attache and

does stally do e lot of consuler vers, but be 1s believed to be a

Sovtot KGB officer, and it le believed that he vorte for Department 13 ol

the KCB, the Department charged ulth sabotage and assuasinations. The

suapicion that KONIKOY 1s a Kal orficer arose from his work habits, and

his association with other KGB officers. It wus hariened when it was

---

## Page 20

13-00000

found that he handled a Soviet agent who was trained to do sabotage

wort and that he turned this sent over to another KGB offleur whe 1a

definitely know to vork for the 13th Department. It 1a generally true

In KGB work that sabotage agents are handled only by 13 Departent

officers.

Embassy gard In Ivanovich obeDkOt 1s himself belleral to be a

KGB ma fron previous nestemente as a bodysurd and millent. But

unless some direct erlionce of Boviet complieity is Aiscorerell, It 18

most Itholy that OSUL's denling with KID man OBLINOV and KOS21KO7 was

tricks.

nothing more than i sian cotnetdence, a cotneidence due in part

Sovlet habit of placing Intelligence nen in the Embasales In positions

where they receive a large pertion of the visitore and phone calle All

ot the five consuler efficers Ill the Seviet Enhasey are koom ar suspected

Intolligence offcore, Cortaluly 1I OSWALD hud been a Soviet agent in

trining for un assassination assignment or even for sabotage work, the

Sortets would have stopped hin Iron making open visite and phone callo to

the forfet Inbanay In Hactco after he tried 1t a couple of tines. Our

meets roger

---

## Page 21

13-00000

tted

experience in Maxled, stalying the soviet Intelligance service at close

rangu, Indicates that they do maico sene uintabes nod are smetimes insecure

In their methods, but that they do set pertet in such clarias errors

Some Inaight on the Cuban attitude tourd the arrent of Silvie DURAN

und the Involvement of the Cuhan Consulate In the OSWALD case can be

anined tren two Intercapted phone calle nde between Culan Frostdent

OBvaldo DORTICOS and Cuber Ambassador.

26. November 1963, the day after Silvia DUMAN was released fran her first

arrest. At 09:40 An that mening, Frontdent DORTICOS phoned the Antenseder

and anted han nevei

quentio

no about

Ambessador had sent in on the arrest of Silvia DORY and the Lee OctALi

cast. The whole convermation to consistent with the theory thut OSHALD

merely muted a vial. the Antasanor did mention the alterention shteh

ONWALD had vith Consul ArCil, and he says that Mexlean police brused

Salvia DURi's erns a little shaking her to impress her with the importance .

ol their questlons. They hud asted her 1f she had been latimate with

OSHALD and she had denied It. Fresident DORTICOS trice asted Ambassador

---

## Page 22

13-00000

SEGRET

ANNANDEZ whether the Mexton polfee had assed Silvia DURAI questiona

about "money," and the Frealdent apparently vanted to know whether the

Merlonna thought the Cabuns had paid OSHALD money. HEADE insteted

the Mertoans had not erfered SIlVIA DURAN MAneY, And DORTIOS SAVO

us trying to purt across his polut. Prustdent DORTICOS Instructed

BRIAnEz to keep on questioning stivia Dulll and to phone him bact.

At 7:39 PM that evening Antanador WruDi did call Fresident

DORICOs becky saying he had quastioned "that person" sonin and she has

nothing new to all. Prenident DORIICOS returns to the isnus of whether

Consulate bed aiven noy to the manthat Anertcan.* fut Ancesseder

TRIANEZ persiots In Manderstanting DORTICOS, castes in the nasative,

and sayn "Absolutely nothins vas siven to her." DORTICOS seems to gIro

up, and the conversation dies out after a few nore senoral remarisa.

We do not Inow for sure wat ande Fresident DORTICOS press for Infara-

tion about Cuben nosey passed to OsWALD, but rumors were current in Mexteo

and evos, ve understand, In the USA, that OSWALD had returned fran Merico

SEGRET

---

## Page 23

13-00000

City with about $5,000. Fertipe DOMICOt ms trying to leera whether

the Mextown police believed that the Onbans had Iinanced OSKAID. Ja any

eventy the Caban Coversat sit the Hertcars a stiff note of protest

over the arrest an detention of stive bilal, but the Nexicans

refected the nete.

SENSAT

---

