# 104-10110-10204

## Page 1

104-10110-10204

1219000

FILE NO.

DATE

2 Augast 1960

SYNOPSIS

west ration asclosed that on 19 July 1900 three separat

eetings were held at room inmber 209, University Cour Besor

riotel, Coral Calles, Florida.

Mrs. Claris MINUEIR, to 1s the vile of an executive for

Continental Can Corde, in Cuba, overheard and took copious notes

of the second and third reetings. During the neetings in question,

two (2) stall employees and three (3) Cubans vere present. The

neetings vere held la order to "Iron out" internal dissensions with-

in the MR.

ne two (2) stati emloyeas vere interviewed and insolar a

hey recall no Covernment or CIA interest vas divulged dusing th

course of their neetings with the three (3) Cubans.

Interlaus nith Miami FBI representatives reflected that

Tirs. VAIMINER had told the MBI that one od the comferees stated

that he was hired by the inited States to do away vlth Castro.

told is. at the seats it tart arab Beer crat

ixvestigation and for reasons ol security, it vas desired that she

refrain fron discussing incident with anyone and that she also

counsel ber friends to do likewise.

Physical survey of the University fourt Resort Motel revealed

that the room selected for the reeting vas vulnerable.

Attached to the original of this report are Bhibits I through

-p955,6,779

REPORT NO.

PRdiNG 11250

1201

---

## Page 2

14-00000

-.?!

WOUNDA

F219000

2 August 1950

GENERAT

At Coral Gables, Elorida

On 22 and 25 July 1960,l

Chier, Forward

Operating Base (POB), was Intervieved In his office tolstive to

the security violation at Coral Gables (see Exhibit t)).

Indicated that he vas o his way to leshlagton,

D. Co, at the tine that the lacident was reported by the FBI to

Berna REICHTARDI, & staff employee who mintain his office.

outside of TOB. O'MANA further stated that he had beer briefed

on the security lead whlle be was in Washington, Do C.

who did not attend the meeting where the

security

violation pecurred, Irepared a memorandm for the record (see

Exhlodt #2) setting forth the detaila of the amangements and

Alacuanions leading up to the nesting which was beld in Roos 209

at the Undersity Court Resort Motel, 1390 South Disie Heimy,

Coral Gables, Florida.

on 22 July 1960, Case Officer

& BROWN, Istaft employee,

was Intervened at the Atlantie Motel ters he is currently

randang. Le was most coonerstive sad arperped to be sincere and

go 11able 12 his statements.

M. BROWN, allas

stated that very Droni

a118 Fran BuDdi, Cams ou vura ables on Monday eventag, 18 july

1960, from Hasiadngton, D. G. BROWN added that & neeting was held

at a salehouse at 2300 hours, 18 July 1960, 1n order to discuss

the program for the followlap Aur alth mhers of Mile Staft employees

1121an KUNT, Jerry DROWER,

and BROIl were present it

the meeting

My, BRONY continued that the reason that Mr. DROLIER came to

Coral Cables was to have a meting with several nembers of the MEn

on 19 JUly 1960 1n order to "Iron out" Internal dissensions.

At 0910 hours, 19 July 1960, Case Officer BROWN aTived at

the home of a Intend of TARIll shose address ha recalled to be 623

Velarde Avenue, Coral Gables, Florida. BRONT could not furtber

dentity ARINE's trlend otber than the fact that he ua a Cuba

nd a larvard lniversity traduate. Upc arrival, BRowN obsesve

that ARIME was "still in the sack": ARTIME end BROWN deperted

ase residence at 0905 hours, proceeded directly to the Dote, Doo

arrived there et aymadmately 0920 bours. He used a sterile rented

vehicle In trensporting ARTIE and arrangements for the motel to be

used for the meeting were made by Jergy DROLLER.

11146°

SECRET -1-

---

## Page 3

$E031

#21.9000

2 August 1900

Case Officer BROWN farther elsporated that he tas not evare

02 IT, DROLIER's Joon mumber unt1l the actual morning of the mettag.

DROTTER had chocited 1st0 the Uhiversity Court Resort Motel unles

the nane Tink BRIDER and had deedded to utilize his guarters for

the meting, Alter determialag DROLa'a roos umber, FROWN veat

back to the car there be had laft ARIDa, piered hin up, and pr

ceeded to room 209 at the notel. Fe stated that at el? times

unile be us 1s his car he nade sure that he vas not being sur

vellled and took necessary action to precinde any mobile surveillance.

Le did sot expone the indigenous partisapants unnecessarty Naile

at the notel. During tha barra 0915 to 1015, 1120 to 1330 and

1430 to 1600, 19 Jaly 1960, then the metings occurred, the dods

were locked and there was no eating or drinkiny as there vas no

roc service affaded by the motel. to the best of BRON's re-

collectio, neither be nor the indiganow persomel were seen by

say of the ccepants of the mabel. FRONt mentioned thet he was

not are of any security precaution tort the responsible Crise

Orateer Jerry DROLER tock before, duriss, and aster the neeting.

The primary duty of BRCNN during the meetinga vas serving as 29

Interpreter for MI.. DROLITE.

The conversation vas louder than normal and it was noted

that Jerry DROLLEl speaks ulta aa obvious Germaic eccent. Boglish

and Spanish were spoken freely throughout the meetings.

BROWN Indicated that the following names, areas, and terms

were mentioned during the neetings:

8. Frank, BRaDER

b

Gon let

CORSO

eL INCas /MORAN

3. 81n0/PIAZ. pg. 4.

LE RICArdO ICURIE

1 d

Sancoez ARRANGO

J. "Jimmy" SHINE

K. BENDER GrOUg

8114969

---

## Page 4

14-00000

SECRET

$ 219000

2 Auguat 1950

I. Llouel (used ireguently and this is tine code name for

one of tbe MRR men)

1. Oriente and Favana, Cuba

0, References as to babington, such as, "That are uy Irlends

23 Washington going to say?"

Do Mexico

g. Frente

I. Natioal Directorite

B. MRR

t. Executive Camnittee

i, Junta

- V. V1808

" 1 Diacipline (often used)

I. Pilota (embera such aa 40 or 50)

y. Revolutionary Front (referring to FED)

2 Irainlag and training areas

bb. Alrplanes (Example: Franà BanER stated, "I have plenes

In tie training areas, but you have not produced the

pilots.")

CC. At our meetings 1n New Yor

ad. "You have not cooperated with my Jimle who came to Miami

as my nilitary representative."

BROWN stated that to the best of his inowledge no mention

To made of the United States Goverment or the CIA.

-3 =

SEBRET

---

## Page 5

14-00000

SEGRET

42:9000

2 Auguat 1960

BROWN stated that no calls were received at the notel during

the first meeting nor vare there any cutside calls nade. Mere

were no incontay or outgoing calls made during the second meettag.

Tro Incoming calla were received by Jerry DROLLER at 1500 and 1530

hours at walch tine is. ARMIR called and talted to BROWN uho 1s-

terpreted for DROLLER. EROTI further recalled that at the end

of thn third meeting, about 1600 hours, Mr. DROLLER telephoned

and Jake ISyRLTHE on thels inlisted phozes fron

the notel room. shen lt. DROLLER was talking tel

ESTERLINE, CalY BROWS was present. No outgoing calla vere nade

by the indigenous persomel duriag the entire session at the notel.

All calls were made through a witchboard. BROIN polated out that

at 20 time daring, the sessiona with the indigenous personnel vere

they Interrupted by motel employees or oceupants.

He added that

the notel roon did not have a radio, souver, there vas a tele-

vision set walch was not used duriag the netiage.

Adcarding to Inci, the pecand neeting ended at about 1345

hours, at which time he and the three Cubans; Mesars Illad DIAZ,

Michel JABOR, Jand Eleardo LouRT, left the room and proceeded to

the Corsee Shop at the motel \in order to have their lunch. | BROWN

mentioned tont there vere about two tables of cuateners in the

restaurast.

He observed three Argentine-Spanish speaking fenales

sitjing next to his table. He poisted out that although hia

chatting with the Cubans during lunch was In Spanish, they did

not discuss bunlaess.: There was no discussion between tables.

Alter lunch the group returned to the roon at about 1425 hours

and waited for lr. DROLER to return. Mr. DROLIR returned to

the room at about 1i40 hours at which time the third neeting

carmenced. FROWl noted that while walting for Mr. DROLlEr, little

or so discussion transpired between he and the three Cubans.

Attention 1a Invited to Exhibit #3 bich 16 a menorandun for the

reeor, setting forth is detail an account of the netings on 19

July 1960.

BROWN mentioned that he had never been at the Universisy

Court Remart Notel before the meeting nor has he been there stace.

He had 20 further Information to offer.

Mr. Bernard B. RECAY, Start Employee, waa Intervlewed

on 22 and 23 July 1900 1n bis office and the office of

He was cooperative and gave what appeared to be truthful suaveneats.

RETCHHArDI stated that he does sot have much more information

to offer than has been cited in his cable (Exbibit #1), dated 20

July 1960, M. REICHARDT was Instructed by the Reporting Agent

SECRET

---

## Page 6

#219000

- 2 August 1960

to trite a memorandum for the recard an an addendum to Ischibit

#1 setting forth in detail the receipt of Information Iron the

FBI and what subsequent sotion was taxen by him la this matter.

Attached as Schibit f 1s & memorandum for the record, dated 23

July 1960, voluntarily sumitted by kir. RiTChhArDT.

MI. REICHARDY volunteered the Information that he bad

learned that ST. Juatin I. GLICHAUF, Chlei, 0O/Contacts Office.

Coral Gables, vas to meet vital

on 22 jaly 1900 and discuss a

Iber not connected vies the security incident. In this connection,

RETCIFARDT briefed GIATCHAUF on the security. leat so that he

would be alart to any mentios of this incident during his meeting

GITICHAUF subsequently advised RICHARDY that

bed mide no mention of the incident to him.

REICARARDT had no further pertinent information to offer.

Attached as Ixhibit #5 ls a nemorandun for the recard pre-

pared by Mr. John J. SULLIVAN, Security OFfICeI, FOB, On 25 July

1960.

At Miant Beach, Florida

Actlay Special Agent In Charge, Richard BAKER, of the Mioni

IBI was contacted in his office, third floor, Justice Bullaing,

3915 Blacayne Elvdo, at 0955 hours, 25 July 1960, by the Reporting

Agent and FOB Security Officer, John J. SULAIVAN. Mr. SULLIVAIY

brtefed Mir. BAKER why we were there and reguested that he furnish

any Information available relative to the incident that occurred

at the University Court Resort Motel on 19 July 1960. Mr. BAKER

at 1005 hours reguested IBI Special, Agent George DAVIS, the 11-

vestigato handling thie matter, to participate in the diacussion.

Special Agent DAVIS Indicated that at 1500 hours on 19 July

1960 & call was received fron HIs. Clark VALENTINER, VIle Of an

executive of the Contiaental Can Copazy, lavans, Cube, Who re-

ported that she had overheard a discussion of an anti-CAStRo troup.

At this polut, M°. DAVIS pointed out that his detailed report on

this matter which 1a Incarporated 1n& larger report dealing ulti

msolicited information, was forwarded to the FBI Headquartere

on Saturday, 23 July 1960. DAVIS added that the only matter that

he did not include in his

Investigative report vas two license

plates mmbers which Mes. VAlault had provided him. Mrs.

VALONTIER had noted the license plates of the participants la

the meeting conducted in Room 209 at the University Court Resort

Motes®

-5.

---

## Page 7

14-00000

SEGREI

$219000

2 Auguat 1950

shortly after the call mas received by the fbI tron tis.

VALENTINE, ?3I Special Agent Howard ATBAUCH taforned "Bernie"

REICHARDT of the aforementioned telephone call. "Berale" sub

sequently asked Special Agent DAVIS to contact Hrs. VALININER

for the purpose of determining what she had overbeard, refralr

Irom alscursing this matter further with anyone, and also to

caution ber frienda nom she had told oi the Incident to do 11%e-

Wise

Spectal Agent DAVIS mentioned that Mrs. VAIRYUKER had

returned to her roch, 210, at the University Court Resort Hotel

at 1130 hours, 19 July 1960, and noticed bellows of cigar amoke

emanating fron underneuth her kitchen door. Upon examining the

situation, she overheard loud conversing in the consesting roon.

In listening further, Hrs. VALKHNNER was able to record tbe

comersation in Room 209 by taking copious notes. Hrs. VALYuNER

believed there vers three Cubans present together with two otber

individualo whose natioality she could not detemine but whose

names sbe establtshed to be Trant FRIDIR and "Jinaie."' One of.

the Cubana served as an Interpreter and BinDER spole vith a di

tinct Germanic accent. Mis. VALETILIER tOld DAVIS that Mr. BENDER

during the meeting had stated that he was "hired by the Uaited

States to do aray with CASIRO." Mrs. VAINTINER also noted duriag

the meeting references to Jovard and HUnt, which ahe surnized

to be coe Howard HUNT.

Special Agent DAVIS Indicated that be interviewed Mrs.

VALENVER 15 her quarters in the notel during the hours 2300 to

0145 on 19 and 20 July 1960, The wilter, at this poist, inguired

as to the size of the crack underneath Mra. VALENITYR's Iltchen

door. DAVIS anered by stating that it wan large (exact dimen-

sions not noted) He further declared that she had mentiooed to

bin that she was able to observe the portion of the leg (to the

Ine) of many of the individuals participatioz in the diacussion.

The writer further queried DAVIS as to whether she had any know

Lodge of spartah. DAVIS replied that she advised him that she

possessed Inent Inowledge of Spanish after having resided In Cube

for ten years. Her husband has lived in Cube for tat-by years.

While at the motel, DAVIS observed that she had notes of the

conversation which she refered to duriag the intervier. It shoula

be noted that these notes were not conflicated by DavIs.

DAVIS stated that Mrs. ROBINSON, who 18 also & reaident of

the notel, was present during the weeting for a very short period

(exact times untown). Mrs. ROBLISON 15 the wife of en imericaa

busineasman 12 Cle.

Mr. Lawrence BRENER of the Esso Company of

= 6-

SECRET

---

## Page 8

14-00000

SF161

121900:3

2 AugasE 1900

Cuba in also koovledgeable of the incident since she called hir

IOr SiTICS. BRINER advised ber to call the FBI.

She telephoned

te FET ino the hone of lins. MORRIS ON MORRISON (not farther -

ident: 1ed).

Mrs. VALEIMER, accordiay to DAVIS, did & Ilttle Investigantag

on her out. Alter the meeting of the group was over, Frank BaNDER

called =3=100al Al-lines to confli his reservations for 19 Jaiy

Saotly thereaster, Mrs. VALaNTINER called Nationel Airlines

a180 conducted alscreet Inqui-les at the notel and ascertained

that tine occupante of Rom 209 vere & grouy of businesen using

the ror for the day. Mrs. VAINNINER vas carefal to note the

license plates of two cars that were uned by the conferees:. She

conduered no fartber investigation.

Special Agent DAVIS described Mra. VALZHIINER as discreet,

cooperture, Intelligent, anti-CAS10, and anti-Commist, DAVIS

feels wat this particular incident vill "alein astural death"

asd this the people uno have becone inorledgeable to sone extent

as or stilvity are discreet emough to not diecusa it further.

During 2is discussion with in VALENUNEY, DAVIS at so time divulged

any Unsted State Goverment uponsorshly of this matter.

Acrilag Specdal Agent In Charge Richard BAXER concluded that

as far as the 10ca) IBI Offles vas concerned, this tus & closed

matter

Ee added that azy othes partiolpation by his office would

have to be approved by FBI Fendquarters,

At Coral Gaolas, Florida

At 1200 hours, 24 Jaly IS50, the Reporting Agest, under altas,

moved tinto r00n 206 at the tatversity Court Resort Motel. A

physter? sumey at the motel tas made on thia day Attention 1a

larater to Exhibit #6. butlating "C" where the meetings ware con-

ducted lsve coupletely eguipped cornecting dinette Hitchens. Ms.

Clark MATaYIINER currently occupies roca 210 at this notel ubere,

hed she elected to do so, moula be able to crerhear the entire

converstion in room 209 Dron her kitebenette. As will be noted

on tie page Y diesran of Echialt 16, her kitchen extends three to

four fast (sotual measurement) Into root 209, The Eltchen door

1s of piyrood construction. In bullding l there 18 a 3/4 10 1 Inch

tap between the floor and the jase of the hitchen doors to enparently

allow 22311 to vall carpeting. Between rocas 209 ari 209 1h079

1a a surel retrioroed plustered wall. It la the silter's opiaton

that 1- 15 Impossible to sonia conversation taling place In 209

from 205 vithout the use of proper listentag devices.

According

-7=

SEBAGI

---

## Page 9

14-00000

sibil in

1279000

2 August 1550

To bE. EiGHt, marley Identified 1a this report the wo

were ccted and the al. conditioning vas on then the moatings

ware conducted.

It would be alfricult fox anyone to ronitor the couverzation

In zoon 209 Iron either the buck or Ixont doors as they are or

snoked alous construction thereby alsording the occupants of the

room to note anyone standing in thani of them.

At lizabington, D. C.

Attached aa Intbit # 13 & cory of a Til sumary sent fros

Spoctal Agent 12 Charge, Hiant, Florida, to FBI Headquarters on

23 July 1960, and mado available to thia Agency by Special Agent

Som PAFICH

PROLAR") Staff employee, altas Frank, BERDEr, was

Interrlowed /a 26 July 1900 by the Beporting Agent and Mr. Joseph

JANGAN, SeQualty Officer, Projeet JARC, In bis Offlee at Bartoa

Fall. He van cooperative.

Mr. DROlls prefaced his renarks by indicating that he had

completed & mencrandan for the record, requested by ME. LAlGAI,

and made a copy srailable (see Echtbit 78).

Mr. DROLER Indicated that the giat of his cover story for

the indigenous persomel, 1s that he 19 a private Anerican citisen

and a member of a group of American citizena (bundess, education,

etc.) sho sometines in the past lInd themselves in atnor diaagree-'

ment uits the united Statos foreiga palloy 11 Iatin Anerica (Iavor

10g TWILIO and the like) Tuat this group has noticed a mucin

more "forward look" by the linited States Coverment and that the

group la therefore directed to do anything which can be of

assistance to patriobio oltizent who will bring about a change

of the CASIRO Goveramant. DROLTiR further declared that operating

with this cover story, be has never sentioned that he was an

employee of the Unlted States Goverment. Mi: LANGAN, at thia

potat, queried Mr. DROLTSR thether any mention of the United

States Goverment had been made by the indigencue persoonel who

Iu connection with employment by the United States Goverment.

Mr, DROLLER alsolayed the allas travel doomentation which

he has been using on his excursions to Miund lesch, Mlorida, 2mea.

It was cored that the sadress 144 West Esth Strset, New Yort City,

was listed on thla locumentation, but according to it. DROLLER 1a

not bacistorped.

-8-

SEGRET

---

## Page 10

1235.000

2 August 1960

Li. DROLLER declared that he bad condacted beetings on 24

May, aid 7 and 19 June 1900. The neetings were bold to direrent

roons in the sme bullatas, as the tane 1l00r on tuo occasions -

and once on tbe ground, 1100r. Durlaz tboss meetings, unica vere

held for bundans and social reasons, the following vere present:

'83.

The excontire comittes of the Frente (four people)

Samal,

State

ernie REICHRARDX, W1131an KENT,

Bernard BAKER and Favel EROWIN

I boLts pointed out that en these preyzous occasiong 1a waie

he Court Resort Moted vas uned, M REICHHARDY made the reserva

tIm.

I DrOLl scared that so no tire did the agents tnor ve

orehand there tus merings would take place. He bad no Tothe

pertinent Intormation to offer.

Search ot CS Indices revealed that

Of the base Compery of Cuba ves Iasued ta uses sypaura

on 29 Hay 1956 to Dent the Subject'u une as a contract agent 1.

Cuba, under undentanated cover.

sa Mari Arthur VALENTIN spouse of Bra. Loude

VALENT, tua granted/ua operational approval on 37

Sharon

peratt his 2s0 an a Isaid agent 11 Cuba.

Jamary 2957

SENT -

---

