OFFICIAL DISPATCH
PATCH no. &

cans PEGBE
To Chief of FBZ

oat
FROM Chief of (oa

SUBJECT stven. Censorship Intereepte
soc itis. Two lettere from Brasil and ons concerning Russian

i Colony in Yokohama,

~ "1, Be enclose three censorship intersepts, two of which say be
of interest to th( Rio wtation, The third concerns the Soviet colony
in Yokobama, (6-20

2. Be lave anked G-2 for traces on som of these poople.

i Srey
iol pig pi
Tha. Fitea
Diets
Wash - 2
Piles > 2
tose? aia

ape tear OHe

Me

Le
i

“MEQTURE onng

aan


2 2
° _am. casscnsi oe Faber a a) 43

P CIS-MIS -<GHQ-SCAP
17
REE
Prom: L Tor
~ oe 4

POLETARFF, W, D,
12, Yamamoto-dori 4-clfoes
Taute-in, Kobe, Japan

WARKOY, B.

tua 7 dd Bril 252, 5 antar
Constructera Vensan e Saha
Pore Ser, Viedixir

Seo Peulo Brasil
en suereieerouesnions
Deg, air 1 ALTERS: RUSSIAN BMTGRANTS IN KOBE URGRD TC GET VISA
Letter #51925 ' TO BRAZIL THROUGH FICTITIOUS DOCUMENTS; SIMILAR
: ATTEMPTS SAID SUCCESSFUL
Batoa:
11 Oct 48! e€
‘ Writer states: pk 1°
mmnererentinaas | :
Language: “How te the matter 2 viea to. Morth Agerica? If it is

1
Russian ' very difficult for you, or if it is imposeilie to go there
‘then ay brother 7. who has bie own office, aight send
! to Alexis Kic, and fictitious documents which etet se
that he invites th persons for hie own use technical
workers, Thie will give a push for earlier receiving of viea
to Brasil. Plesse writes dates (year, sonth and day) and places
of birth of allithree (3), end 1f necessary reduce the ages f
yourself, Marie deona and Alexis Wicolaevitch, because
only persons under fort; -nine (49) years old will be accept: i,
Generally epeaking, plesce write in detail about each pergor-
short biography.

"Please keep thie ratter in secret from others, Get a tiok.t
to SANTOS, never to Ric de Janeiro, We ehall meet you and
find work for you,

"Many people left by such way,

“rite as early ss poorible,*

Examiner's Hota: . The above fe translated from Rusetan

Apalyeig: The reference to Borth America might indicate possible
entry of Soviet agents to United States through South America,

peur

Me ely

LE 4 tn
upd :



ze
SECKA re: aa e) wad

CIVIL CENSORSHIP DB) ACHEOT
ODSoMIS<ORQ-8 AP

| (? are

Ton

GREGORY 8.

Flat 3 Chedele Court
Bates Avemo, Paddington,
Sidasy, dustralia

i
i

ALIENS: SOVIET CONSUL ADDRESSES RUSSIANS ON EMIGRATION
TO USSR

Writer statess

®I have been an exigrant and for the tins being
I will remain an enigrant as be: jo  GORBUROV
femily, *KLYUITN end fenily, S8IRIOm his ’

A (Ext woren, (8x1 woo) and
eT tora tin woman) are going to America, Hany are going
to Rusele but I do not know to what place they will go.

"A few days ago the Soviet Consul aade @ speech
for them and raid that those who wish to go to Soviet
Russie may do eo in the near future, He aleo said that
any who did not wish to return to Russie would not be
forced to do so.

aad
épelyalas RLU fas, Lists 8-75) has boon attempting te
er the United States on poeribly faleo affidavite, He is
brrbemtets of being a Soviet agent, Refs CCD/TOS/x-219, 228 and
< e

a rieey "fi
ow rragiimadics
ae 3 ;



oar bila,

9 Siw!l censorship Detac went
? CIS + WIS = GHQ » SiaP
Y
9 Sept 1948 | Ir
= «
Frou: = 7VALFURA Toshio To. TANISH? Hobuke i
1,0. Box 260 leohore, Suehire-cho ¥
Net. Papen Rekate-shi, Purucke-ken if
1, Peulleta, Sac Paulo Jepen
Wrest)

Writer stites:

~—
"Colonel PIGUEIREDO Lies, prominent Jepancphile, expert on
affaires 11 Japan and former ailicary observer representing Brasil
@aring the Sino-Japanese Incident, gave a lectsve here about eix (6)
@onths ag>. On that ocoselor he od about tie patriotic spirit
of the Japaneses people, and said that the last llorld War ended in
@reat victory for Japan, He also told us that whe greater Bast Asia
Co-Prosperity Sphere was es-:blished a-d sual) bee
came inde endent under the protection of Japan
advanced in Japan coapered with other countries and Japan
powerful atomia bombs than the Unit d States; all information reported
by the nevepapere eas untrue,

"Re concluded hie specoh by streasing that they, the

Bresilia:e, hed to exort themselves for the peace of the world in

ration with Japan, Both the Bresi ians ani the Japanese residing
in Brasil firmly velieve the; Japan ie making propaganda of her
defeat because she wante worid peace, though she gained a victory in
reality. By the speech of Colonel] PIGUBIREDO Lima, wo Japenese
Peeident: here got e ray of sope in the dark world and vur mind was
brighten. *

pps: Hoja: Common: Sheet JP/TOK/96249 give the true account
or} IREDO'® epee sh,

cy"
Pr
Y CONFIDENTIAL
pa ae Ae ar _
53.

