# 104-10186-10218

## Page 1

104-10186-10218B6-10218

NEORMATIONL EPOR

INFORM ION REPORTE

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

Teli malertal containe informatina Mocung the Patioon Defen of the turns Buico winie the meantos te insanee Lawe Tille

18, 08C. Dra TRi ane To the innimano or risintion of maica in any mann to an unauthored perica la prohibited log tow.

SECRET

NO FOREIGY DISSEM

COUNTRY Cuba/ Ha1t1

REPORT NO.

CSCI-316/02627-64

SUBECT. Rone DEPESTRE, Haltian

Communist Leader

DATE DISTR

17 December 1964

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

DATE OF

196%

INFO.

PLACE &

Washington,

D. C.

DATE ACO. October

1964

FIELD REPORT NO.

TARS IS UNEVALLATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE, APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE:

A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban

RETURN TO CIA

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any of

the individuals mentioned in the personality reports without

first checking with this Agency.

1.2 Source identified the name Rene DEPESTRE, a Haitian,

from an Official] travel manifest.

He advised that DEPESTRE

wife, Edith, are living in Habana, where DEPESTRE 18,

In effect, a salaried employee of Radio Habana, broadcasting

in Creole to the Haitian populace..

Source was

if he inew if DEPESTRE had a group

of men for an

invasion of Haiti; source advised that DEPESTRE had no

invasion group, but believed that DEPESTRE was scheduled to

accompany one Jean Norbert MONTERO to Oriente Province in

January or February 1964 to scout the province for guerrilla

trainee recruit's, but source does not know If DEPESTRE

actually went

2. When queried regarding DEPESTRE's contacts in Moscow,

source replied that he believed DEPESTRE had been n

Moscow

therefore, would presumably have contacts there; but

source could not name any specific persons.

3

2

SIN

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

42.80

2

1

•STATE

I DiA

ARMY

REP

CINCLANT

¡Note: field distribution indicated by " 5":)

NAVY

CINCSO #

TAIR

NSA

ISAS

I Oce/BR

I FBI 2

IN FORMATIONARERORIS

INFORMATION RERORT.

SH/SA/EOBL

AH /S/R

INNUAVE

WE /5/R

WE FLADR

-11

15-2

S WH/2/1

inal

ACCLIA

2 CU/REA

ILLE

3U

La HASHL

JLX-1829

JO PROJECT (AMMUG/1?

CSCI -316/02627-6|1

1

MOSA 8 (1), MH/P/M 3, NE I (2), Cr 4, RID 1

Cratson *

BS: LD:SyK

---

## Page 2

104-10186-10218

CINFORMATION

LERORI

INFORM

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

TION REP

SÉCRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

•COUNTRY Cuba/Hsiti

SUBJECT

None DEPESTRE, Haitian

Communist Leader

REPORT NO.

DATE DISTR

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

CSCt-316/02627-64

17• December 1964

DATE OF 1964

MACS & Washington, D. C.

DATE ACO. October, 1964

FIELD REPORT NO.

TNIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE: APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE

SOURCES

A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban

Inteligence Service until April 1964.

Headquarters Comments

The collowing report is one of a series containing personality

Information provided by the

source and includes supplemental

Information from the records of this Agency.

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any of

the

Individuals mentioned in the personality reports without

first checking with this Agency.

1.

Source identified the name Rene DEPESTRE, a Haitian,

from an official travel manifest.

He advised that DEPESTRE

and his

wife, Edith,

are living in Habana,

where DEPESTRE 15,

in effect,

a

salaried employee of Radio Habana, broadcasting

a program

in Creole to the Haitian populace.

Source was

asked if he knew if DEPESTRE had a group of men for an

invasion of Haiti; source advised that DEPESTRE had no

invasion group, but believed that DEPEStRE was scheduled to

accompany onc Jean Norbert MONTERO to Oriente Province in

January or February 1964 to scout the province for guerrilla

trainee recruits, but source does not know if DEPESTRE

actually went.

When queried regarding DEPESTRE'S contacts in Moscow,

source replied that he believed DEPESTRE had been in Moscow

and, therefore, would presumably have contacts there; but

source could not name any speciiie persons.

4

3

2

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

STATE

I DIA

ARMY

REP

CINCLAKT

(Nore: Field disfribution indicated by **.)

NAVY

CINCSO #

AIR

I NSA

I&NS

SINFORMATION

REPORT

AH/SALEOB ILAD/5/B

AH/SALJOB 1L RELIADR

ML SALR

EL/SALCI

CLiLLA

2 CI/REA

LLE

L/ WASHA

5. 1H/2AL

MIRID/AX

WH/SA 8. (1),

WH/?/H 3, NE 1 (2), CI 4, RID 1

FoRM so.

1

OBSOLETE PASVIOUS EDITIONS

201-17697

2

IXNKX

Toc&/BR

FFBI 2

REPOR

1LX-1829

$O PROJECT (AMMUG/1)

CSCI-316/02627-61

WH/ 3S 35: LD:5

In drafti CI/Be

120

---

