# 104-10125-10243

## Page 1

104-10125-10243

(

(

SECRET

ISECRET_

10 Feb 77

Source:

Subject:

listes made by A. Goodpasture

for John Leader, IG Staff

Background on lexico Station Support Assets

(Coverage of Soviet and Cuban Embassies)

1. (Unilateral coverage. Fron the time the lexico Station was opened in

April 1947 (by Bill Doyle) until arrival of Win Scott as COS in 195б, Charles

Anderson III (still in LA/HQ) had developed a support apparatus to Fees

exploit leads from the Soviet Embassy. This unbrella type project (LIFEAT)

consisted of multi line phone taps, three photo sites, a mobile surveillance

team and a nail intercept operation.

a. Thore taps were placed by an employee of the telephone company

who vas handled by David WILSTED (pseudo). The number of lines •

tapped

was linted

by availability of a listening post nearby

(since the taps were not rade in the main central) and English/

Spanish (Soviet, Polish, Czech, etc) transcribers. Generally

these agents (mostly Mexican or Mexican American) were related

which the station at that time felt was good security in that

if they talked about shop, they would talk to each other.)

b. Three photo sites were handled by Arderson with the help

of Harry Mahoney (retired, living in Chicago) and IDY ISD

people checking

the best type of canera, film, and concealment

devices. These had sub-cripts under LIFEAT (LINITED, LILYRIC,

and LICALLA) • LIMITED vas a fixed site bang opposite across

the street from the front gate of the Soviet Embassy which had

both a vehicle and foot entrance. The Soviet gate was

on the

Northliest corner. of their compound and LIMITED was diagonally

across a double barrelled street on the Southeas

Sia jengro, page 1o.

SECRET.

CC00164

JFK-056

Copy 1s? 7

satests e9i c900.-1645

20642

SECRET

A-3

13

---

## Page 2

2-

that block. LIITD was the first base and it operaied strictly on an

o: arinental basis in the early stages.

I trink the lexi Station Lought

one storey

this property (a/Sranish Colorial stone house) through LINOUSIE (check to

be sure). Later this house began to fall apart. This base was closed when

the Station got word that the photo of "uniden nan" was being releasea to the

puolic by the Warren Cormission. The photo operators were noved to another apt

nearby. The property vas sold (under an operational agreenent with LIMOUSINE

for a long term lease on the top floor of a new apartment biding to be built

on this site). LILYRIC was planned as an alternate photo base to LIMITED.

It was in an upper storey (3rd floor -check) on the same

side of

the street

as LIMITED but in the midale of the block South. It had a slanted view of

the front gate of the Soviet Enbassy. The agents in LIMITED

and LILYRIC (both

l'exican fanilies) as far as we knew, were not acquainted with each other.

LILYRIC was a rented apartment. LICALIA, the third photo site, was located

in one of a row of four houses on the South side of the Soviet Embassy compound

which the Mexico Station purchased in about 1958 (check date), also using

LIMOUSINE as the purchaser (check). This site overlooked the back garden of

the Soviet Embassy compound. The purpose of this

operation was to get good

identification photographs of the Soviet personnel (uno at that time vere largely

unidentified in Mexico Station records). The three photo sites vere handled by

Ranon Alvarez (Mexican citizen of U.S. mother who taught elecentary level

the American School). Ranon collected the film saltendentise

-An from LI ITED

and LILYRIC three tines a week. liis sister's husband, Carlos (lexican doctor)

developed and

printed the film into exo contact print strips. The master plan

Vas for LICALIA film to ie, processed inside, ISD man from 1957 to 1959: (Harper

/Holt - resigned) could not handle the volume and as the unprocessed film began

to accumulate, the inside Co (l'ahoney) becane disgusted and took the film out

for Ramon's brother-in-law to

process (probably early 1959). Thus Paron became

the handler for all three photo bases.

A sensitive

staff D monitoring operation

0000165

14

---

## Page 3

was run out of another one of these houses (crypt for the four houses was

IIUST,, cte). This was ha:dled by Glen WIDDaY (outside ISD officer) and

Yakoney using HQ TDY teams for monitoring. This opsration vas also separate

fron LICALLA. The two houses

in betveen were rented to unsusrecting tenants.

c. jobile surveillance was developed by Anderson and later placed

under lahoney and Joseph Sancho. This team consisted of a half

dozen or so agents who used three to four late model cars aná a

panel truck (which could be used on stake_outs for photo covera e).

The plan was to activate this group by radio (fron LINITED BASE)

Soviet

when someone of interest left the Embassy gate and stay with then

until they made their meetings.. These agents knew about the LnITED

SASE belause they had LDITFD photos for identification purposes.

This worked fairly well until about the middle of 1958 (check date)

when one of the surveillance agents got too close to his target and

was arrested by the Mexican transit police and turned over to the

Mexican Secret Service. By the time the Station could arrange through

a cleared attorney to bail him out (Juad Austin of the Goodrich,

Little and Riquelme firm), the agent: had identified Sancho (who vas

evacuated across the border at Nogales by Bob Shaw) and the inside.

phone number of Mahoney (who was subsequently replaced by Louis

Puckett. As a result of this flap, the LIFRAT project was broken

up into several others. The agents were not changed but vere giren

Frank

now crypts. /Estancona and Pegsy laggard) replaced Anderson in handling

the unilateral phose taps. Puckett replaced lahoney and handled

the

surveillance team (LIENTRAP) and the

photo bases through Ramon

d. LIBIGHT was the crypt used for a unilateral (originally), mail

intercept handled by Charlie Anderson III, The agent (Mexican) had

a semi official status and arranged to obtain selected letters fron!

(SECRET

0000166

15

---

## Page 4

¡a sub agent in the vostal system (I think at the airport). llis case officers

41 Conso Spera,

vere later/ Puckett, Rovert Feldmann, and Alan White.

2. LIaison coverage was unreliable and insecure as characterized by the nature

of the lexican services at that time. The Mexican DES (Direction of Federal

Security) with which ve dealt was a hip pocket group run out of the linistry

Of Govirnnent. This Ministry spent a major part of its time on control of

foreigners and political investigations. Their azents vere vicious, veral,

corrupt extortionists. Robert Mclberg established

contact with one of them

{Levine De Leon, (later LIFIRE group) in about 1950 or 51. He gave them sone

training (a group of about five surveillance types) (in travel control working

the airport as well as file searches of names fron DES Hatrs where the files

vere poorly organized and often inaccurate.. How and

then, however,

some useful

information vas developed but it could not be depended upon.

Helberg was

replaced by Phil Poettinger, (resigned and rerained in Maxico), ilahorey, Thomas

Hazlatt, and Roöert Feldmann Kne Afti The Ether.)

During 1958, Win Scott met socially sone of the (chronies of the?

Mexican President elect, Adolfo Lopez Nateos, During this period, the U.S.

Ambassador Robert C. Hill (reflecting the policy of then See State J.F. Dulles)

was energetic in organizing groups to "fight comunisn". One of these seeds

grew into a proposal Miguel Aleran (ir. son of former lexi President), acting

(for Locez lateos, made to Win Scott for a joint telephone tap operation. This

project (LIENVOY) went through about four distressing years of a shakedown.

The lexican in control (LIELEGANT) was inexperienced, old, and greedy. His

son (LIEIVOY-2Y was a masterpiece of deceit and corruption. LIELEGUT also

manipulated control over the principal agent of LIBIGHT rail intercept. The

first case officer was Alfonso Spera inside with Turner Smith' (retired) outside

and John

(TSD training officer for surveillance and head of the listening

post where thirty tele hone lines would connect as vell as a transcription room

0000167

---

## Page 5

IS. SECRET.

staffed cy Chicon arny otricers. Initially the station tried to met every

demand made by the loricans. Both Smith and John hed language dirficulties and

personal problems associated with being outside the ststion so thet the Mexicans 3

ivere virtually uncontrollale, spendi & money as they pleased, squirrelling avay

equipment at enornous costs, and neglecüing their part of the bargain in the

production of transcripts or placing taps which we wanted, Spera was replaced

by Jack Brady who found himself in the same pincer noverent of having Scott

approve a request by LIELEGANT that Brady had turned down by the son, LIaivoX-2.

Finally when the cost became exhorbitant and there was little to show for it,

the project was revariped. Swith and John returned to the U.S. and were replaced

by a TSD officer, Charles Flick, who was put inside the listening post to naintain

Brady was reassigned to other duties fending a transfer.

the equipnent./ Scott too's over the project as case officer meeting with LTELEGANT.

dam!

He designated Ann Goodpasture to neet daiting with Flick for routine supervision

of the listening post, picking up transcripts and tapes. Goodpasture had no

dealing<with the l'exicans except when Scott was ill or out of town. Generally,

all decisions were made by Scott. This was about late 1961.

3. My nemory is a little vague about the origins of the Cuban Embassy but I

think the

staff first developed fron a pro-Castro group celebrating on New

Years

eve 1959. As I recall, it was a rakeshift arrangement of volunteers

through nost of 1960 and 61 with. Ton Hazlitt producing voluminous reports on

their actirities and recruiting agents right and left anong Cuban nationals in

Mexico City.

4 Personnel assignments. Of interest to us now is who was in Mexico during

the period prior to Oswald's visit and the subsequent investigation by the

Warren Commission. To deterine vro was there and what they were doing I

have gro:ped persons torether chronologically with areas of their assignment

covering from 1950 to 1969 so that intone names pop up, one can tell what

period they were in lexico and

their assignments, at the time.

SECRET,

0000168

17

---

## Page 6

8/50-6/69 COS

DCOS

_SECRET.

Winston M. Scott (deceased)

7/56 - 7/58

10/58 - 12/62

Ifonso Rodriguez (ratired)

(retired)

: 6/63-9/65

Alan lihite (retired) -

10/65 - 1969

Stanley Watson (retired in Mexico)

COVERT ACTION

125-755 iNT

¿ Hunt retired

Williard Hill (resigned)

12/56 - 9/61

Stannard Short. (retired)

Chief

David Phillips C/(retired) -

8/62-9/64

2/64-6/65

9/64 - 11/66

10/65 - 1967

Asst a

Janes Flannery C/ (retired) i

Harold Dalghren Asst

Stanley Watson C/ (retired) -

68 - 71.

¿Joseph SmithO(retired in Vexico)}

CUBA OPERATIONS

56 - 4/62 Thomas Hazlitt Chief

2/00 - 4/62 Jack Stewart (retired Costa Rica)

4/63 - 4/65

Bob Shaw Chief

9/63 - 7/65 Ray Swider

10/63 - 5/65 Lorna Kackay (ratinad)

8/63 - 6/65 David Phillips Chief (natired) -

9/65

- 10/68 Joseph Piccolo

10/65 - 12/67 Pessy Masgard)

•Diai

SOVIET TARGET

6/57 - 10/59 Louise Iyon (retened)

9/59 - 8/65 (Herbert Wanell) Chief -

9/59 - 8/65 Barbara Manell -

5/64 - 7/66 William Bright

4/05 - 11/67 Cynthia Hausnann

6/05 - 7/07 Alice Pittinger

7/65 - 4/69 Paul Dillon Chief

SOVIET TRANSCRIBEPS

6/56 - 8/58 Norris Gordon (resigned)

6/58 - 6/63 George Misko

6/63 - 70

Boris Tarasoff (retired in Mexico) -

6/62 - 1/67 Prentice Marheine (ps)

(retired ?)

Outside CO

LEECRET,

0000169

---

## Page 7

(

1222

SUPPORT ASSETS

Unilateral phono taps

1949 - 1961

Charles Anderson III Chief

4/55 - 4/60 Pegey laggard Asst

1156 - 1/62

Frank Estancona Chief

2/60 - 10/64 Thomas Keenan

7/64 - 12/67 Michael Farmer

[49-71 3 Outside CO

Davia WILSTED (ps)

retired in Mexico

Unilateral photo Cubans

6/59 - 4/64

Robert Zambernardi (resigned Mexico)

7/59 - 6/62 (Richard Spathar TSD

(retired)

Unilateral photo Soviets

3/54 - 4/59 Harry I. Mahoney

(retired Chicago)

5/57 - 8/64 A. Goodpasture (alternate CO -

56 - 68

Outside Agent

Ramon Alvarez (resigned in Mexico)

and internal routing)

3/58

-6/63

Louis D. Puckett (retired)

3/63 - 10/64 Thomas Keenan

65 -

Willian Bright

Robent Feldman lilia!

813)63-

ubama.optrepssting

daison phone taps

:959 - 1969

Winston Scott (deceased)

:959 - 1960

Alfonso Spera

(retired)

959 - 1960 (Turner Smith (outside, now retired)

:959 - 1960

John

(Training rept resigned)

760-

1961

John Brady (retired)

.962 - 1968 A. Goodpasture -

961 - 1971 Charles Flick (outside ISD Staff Agent - retired) -

jaison'- surveillance

'rior 1954" Robert l'elberg (retired)

/54 - 4159 Harry Mahoney (retired)

159 - 1961

Thomas Hazlitt

2/62 - 9167 Robert Peldiann (u Fired!

SD Outside unit

155 - 12/63

159-4154

Glen Widden (retired)

Joseph. i:. Resigno (os) Unit blown and closed down

Didate

0000170

19

---

## Page 8

SECRET

About nid 1962 (check date) Ittivoy outside Mexi rept asted)

(for the telephone nunders

of the Soviet, Cuban, and Satellite Embassies.

With tris forewarning, LIPAT (unilateral coverage) was disconnected.

Howevers

jas I recall, the levicans) connected 5 Cuban lines, 5 Soviet lines, 3 Czech,

2 Polish, and 1 Yugoslav line. The baserouse listening

post had a live

monitor tito made short sunmaries of interesting conversations for a daily

resume which was received each day arourd 8 a.m. (passed by Flick to Goodrasture

to get to Scott before 9.a.uI.) Later (when the reel was coupletely recorded)

full transcripts were typed ard passed to the station in the same way, however,

there was usually a time lag of a day or so. Those transcripts nich had

Russian or another language besides Spanish or English vent out of the listening

post the day after the transcript (of otrer conversations on the reel)was

typed. These reels were taken to another location where they were translated

and typed. In the case of the Russian translations, Boris Tarasoff usually ran

about a week behind the date of the conversation because of the volume of

Russian conversations among the lembers of the Soviet Eubassy. During this

period (fall of 1963) the reels were procably being brought into the station

and carried to Boris by one of the people fron the Soviet Section or they may

have been carried to him by Flick but I think I brought the reel in and gave

it to Herbert Manell to take to Boris. (Herbert lanali and his wife Berbara

handled all of the processi: g of Soviet transcripts. ly job involved screening

the photographs as soon as we learned that the man calling himself Oswald was

probably an American. However, here again there was a backlag because the

photos were picked up three times a week but the ones

ricked up were usually

for dates a few days previously because the doctor proce; sed the film on a

night time basis. Photographs were made usually until one roll vas used but

later we got it changed to one day coverage on each roll - in other words the

operators, cleared the camera

each day wether there was anytixnya a full

roll of film exposed. Instructions were to cover office hours, photograch each

0000171

---

## Page 9

" SEWET

new Soviet and fanily, all foreigners and foreign licenee plates.

hunan

error did occur but generally the agents were conscientious.

The Cuban

embassy coverage had more sophisticated

equipment (a pulse ca:era) but it

frequently develoced nechanical difficulties. Bob Zanbarnardi and (Spathar)

(I think) handled this film - pick up and delivery. Lorna lackay screened

the film inside the

station.

I am certain that the Oswald call came

to our attention from the

Soviet line. It was picked up and taken to Boris for a translation because

the caller was trying to speak Russian. Any delay was caused by waiting to

compare the photographs with the typed trenscript. There were no copies

transcriots every nade in languages other than Spanish

or English because Win

Scott could read only those two languages ard he personally screened the

transcripts for operational leads he wanted pursued.

6000172

21

---

## Page 10

14-00000

10 ..

SEGRET.

3

(4) Jor Eno gate

1- LIMITED

2- LILYRIC

3. LICALLA

Plato Baser.

0000173

SANCT

22

---

## Page 11

SECRET

TUZSDAY 1th OCTOBER 1963

Coyerase: 900 to 1900

Log Fila 144

20 Laxp

Weather 1/100

Camera

Setting 3.5-2.5°

1 1251 2URY platican con KAz en el jardin

28 88 188891999 88 1818 10 D 10 10 80 10

F280a426879828%&;63586858%88798888788689288888885683058336

WEDNESDAY 2 OCTOBER 1963

Coverage: 900 to 1900

: 311139

ANOV

out UMY a Norte por Tacubaya-Daspida DENen Chev

375

5 1150 U M M

out a Norte por Tacabaya en Ford37 verde (entr81141)

71033 DF

.6 1203 LEON

in': 2URY de Oriente por Chicontepec de Falcos

372

90!!! EO !!! O 8 8 8 G? O E N 9 0 O 8 8 8 8 8 8 89 D D d 8D 88 80 DE 90 82 89

8 1216 U MM

in de Sur por Tacubaya de Camioneta Chev(sali81218)

52137 DF

9

1218 UA M

in' de Sur por Tacubaya

penale

. 10

11

1222 U AM

out a Norte por Tacubaya

12 TE A MM MOND DO D M D 1 10 10 19 11

13 ! M M 8 M P ! M O M 1.0 D 89 09 18 10 80 80 99.70

14 1248 VAZQUEZ

out a Norte por Tacubaya

16 1259 TIPO

out a Morte por Tacubaya de Chey (entro 1218)

D 167

9858%3786848688785868881818%85818%5968626858%8%896818%858%8%83689628%8783583868427

THURSDAY 3 Ocdober 1963

Doverage: 900 to 1900

171200 UM W

18 1204 U M W

' 20 1213 U HIM

21 1222 V M M

in de Norte por Tacubaya

out a Norte por Tacubaya en Taxi

» ! 8 8 88 M M D 08

in de Sur por Tacabaya

out a Sur por Tacubaya

8882 DF

0000174

ÜFK 77056

CaP.y 10f7

20643

SECRET

SECRET

---

