# 104-10418-10165

## Page 1

104-10418-10165

SEGRET

TO BE OPENED BY ADDRESSEE ONLY

District Field Office

11 larch 1964

HIEMORANDUM FOR:

Readquarters

SUBJECI

7262 622 C SD/I

1. Reference is made to Headquarters letter of assignment in

this case dated 4 March 1964.

2. During the period 20-28 February 1964, while SUBJECT vas

under the proteccive custody of Special Agents Stanley C. LACH,

George R. BRUVER and Alfred B. NcGARRAGITY, SULJECT voluntarily

furnished information concerning his background and activities,

as well as other infornation of operational interest, the substance

of which is set forth in the succeeding paragraphs.

It is to be

noted that at no time did any of the above-named agents solicit

any of this information or make inquiries of the SUBJECT regarding

any of the matters discussed by him.

SUBJECT spontaneously related

these incidents in casual conversation during leisure periods and

while enroute with the agents to and from places of entertainment etc.

In most cases newspapers, magazines and TV programs prompied the

SUBJECT to make comments relative to these matters. Following 1s

a sunmarization of this information:

SPORTS, HOBBIES

(a) On 20 February 1964 SUBJECT disclosed that he enjoys the

Following sports: football, hockey and billiards.

FOREIGN TRAVEL,

vinityof the

(b) He also revealed that he has previously been in the United

States while enroute to Cuba, Venezuela and other Latin Anerican

countries.

at one time or another during his cervice with the

KGB visited and worked on operational projects for the Soviet Union

In pracüically all of the countries of Burope; horever, he has never

SECRET

---

## Page 2

13-00000

SECRET

11262. 622

SD/1

traveled to the far last, except while handling an egent who was

active against the Japanece. He (SUBJECT) stayed In the Kurile

Islands vhich are within sight of Japan. This vas in 1949. He

said that he ras active in the picking up of agents by plane and

ship in this area.

FAMILY BACKGROUND

(c) In the latter part of the evening on this same date,

20 February 1964, the SUBJECT stated that his father was a member

oi the Carmunist Central Comnittee, one of the first members of

the Connunist farty, and that he had great respect for his father.

The SUBJECT also indicated that his father was a shipbuilder and

later becane one of the first to organize and set up the fussian

Atonic Energy Plant.

It was during this latter activity that he

(the SUBJECT's faüher) and three other officials came in contact

with radiation, which affected his father's liver and a few years

Later at the age of 54 his father died of cancer. The SUBJECT.

went on to state that his father, being a very proninent Communist,

was given treatment for this cancer in a special hospital which is.

located In the hills outside of the city of Moscow, and during his

tenure in this hospital the famlly resided with his father.

They

had five roon living quarters beside the room in which his father

was confined. This privilege, he said, is only given to the especially

prominent. VIPs of the Cormunist Party, indicating that his father was

MILITARY ACTIVITY

(2) The SUBJICI revealed that in 19119, at the age of 16, he ras

a Haval Cadet. He tas called into the service before graduating from

what 1s our equivalent of a high school. lie hea caken part in the

sighting in the Black Sea Arca where he described hand-to-hand combat

with Germans, claimed he was wounded,

and because of his bravery he

was ararded the Soviet Order Medal and the Order of Stalin.

The SUbJECT

stated this was unusual for a person of his age and galned him great

respect.

At the end of the war he had no more desire for milltary life

although his superiors tried to keep him in the military. Instead, he

went for four years to the Institute of Foreign Relations and learned

the Inglich language. Upon graduation, a man cane to him and told him

that he had a job lined up for him.

He stated that this actually vas

more like being ordered to take this particular job which turned out

SECRET

-2-

---

## Page 3

13-00000

SEGRET

#262 622: C SD/1

to be with the Naval Intelligence. He claimed that there vere two

military intelligence organizations at the time, the laval and the

Ground Force military type.

LEE OSHALD IN RUSSIA

(e) On 23 February 1964, as SUBJECT approached the table for

the evening neal, he noted that the Time magazine lying on the coffee

table in the living room had a picture of Marie OSWALD. As he sat

down he hit the table with his fist and said, "I feel that I could

heve stopped OSWALD". At this point Special

Agent Stanley C. LACH

asked him "how?".

He proceeded to state that he (SUBJECT) was head

of the KCB Tourist and Visitors Section which kept control over the

activities of OSVALD while he vas In the soviet Union. He caid at

the time, OSAID tas of no special concern or interest to the KGB

secause ne lacked incelligence background therefore, when he applied

for permission to leave hussia, they (KCB) under his (SUBJECT) direction

informed OSWALD that he vould have to make his application through the

appropriate channels of the Stete Depariment, who in um would request

his relcase Iron the Russian counterparts in handling of visase this.

he said was all done for propaganda and show purposes. He went on to

state that if they really vanted to release OSHALD, It could have been

done on the spur of the moment, but since OSWALD had nothing and was

not vorth anything, they decided that this was an opportunity to show

the American State Depariment that they did not mind releasing individ

state do gar not tie

uals if they applied for release through the appropriate channels.

Prior to this arplication for releace of OSVAID, the SUBJECT stated

that since he was of no particular interest to them and there was

nothing in roscow that they could use him for or place him into, they

accided that they would send OSTALD to Minsk where he rould be placed

in a factory working on radios in the hope that some iraining in the

electrical and electronic field might result in his development into

an electronies enginecs; however, he showed no capability in this field.

The SUBJECI then siated that it mas just at this period, before sending

OSWALD to ilinsk, that a very strange thing happened..

OSWALD was supposed to have a meeting with a travel agent in regard

io preparations for his going to Minsk at 4 o'clock in the afternoon.

At 6 o'clock he süill did not report to the travel agent, so the travel

ageni decided to so to the hotel where OSVALD was staying to see if he

could locate him.

When he got to the hotel he asked the clerk if OSWALD

SECRET

-3-

---

## Page 4

13-00000

SECRET

7262

622

Tras in his room,

the clerk nodded affirmatively, and the travel agent

proceeded to OSWALD's roam. He tried the door, but the door was loied.

He knocked, got no response, and then wiüh the assistance of the cle i

they bioke into the room and found OSWALD lying across the bed with boch

of his trists slashed. The travel agent and the clerk responded Immediately

by taking OSWALD to the near-by medical facillty where he vas given blood

Investigation the following day the SUBJECT stated thai the doctor Indicated

that had OSVAID not been Lound for approximately ten more minutes, he would

have been dead. It is here that the SUBJECT again pounded the table and

said if the travel agent had not broken Into the room, but had instead

contacted the KGB office Ilke they are instructed to when they do not

get any response from poople with whom they have appointrents, that he

(SUBJECT) would have most likely directed the travel agent to forget

about him, and on the following day or later that evening he would have

sent one of the KGB agente to check on OSWALD, at which time he would

have been found dead.

This, he went on to state, is what huris hin

when he realizes that he could have been instrumental in disposing of

OSMAID ithout any special inquiry or serious investigation, OSMAID

being nothing, and at the sane time today the Presidenc of the United

States, Presient KliaY, would be alive. The SUBJECT then went on

to state that after OSWALD was sent to Minsk it was there that he met

Marie.

Like hinself (OSTALD), Marie was a girl fron a peasent family

with no special background and somewhat illiterate. It was because

of her poor background that she was given permission to marry OSWALD

and return to the United States as his wife.

The SUBJECT then went on to describe what took place on the day

that Prosident INDIEDY vas assassinated.

He said that this was actually

on saturday in Moscow, the 22nd of Movember.

He was home at the time

and happened to have the radio on, when he heard that the President of

the United Siates had been assassinated. Approximately one hour later,

the rauto intormed him that the assassin was Lee OskAL. Inis announcement,

He grabbed his coat and dached to his office.

Immediately upon his arrival he scarched for the OSWALD file.

When he

sound the file he reviewed it and found that OSHALD had not been used

or even approached for use by the Russian Intclligence. He put in &

long distance call to the Chief of the KGB Section in Minsk and inguired

whether they had used, trained or prepared OSWALD in any vay for Intelll-

gence activity.

The Chief infoined him that according to that he could

recall, they had not made any use of OSHAID. Just about this tine, he

(SUBJECT) stated that his superior walked into the office and directed

SEGREJ

---

## Page 5

13-00000

SEGRLI

30/14

the SUBJECT to set all the information avallable on OSWALD and prepare

a sunmary to be furnished the top officials of the Cormunist Farty.

The SUBJECT then directed the KGB Agent In Minsk to Ilkewise prepare

a surmary of his file on OSWALD and Inforned him that within trenty

minutes a KGB agent would arrive by special military plane to pick

up the surmary for retuin to loscow.

He said this was accomplished,

and within one hour they vere preparing a detailed report on OSWALD'S

activity In Russia. This, concluded the SUbJECT, Is the story of

OSWALD In Fussia.

C. P. AFFILIATION

(f) The SUBJECT also Indicated that he did not join the Communist

Party until he was 2l years old, and he did this out of respect to his

lather, who at the time vas on his death bed and asked him (SUBJECT)

whether he would do him one more favor before he died.. That Is how

the SUBJECT stated he joined the Conmunist Party. Otherwise, he probably

would not have been a member

to this day.

DIPLOMATS AND INTELLIGEICE TYPES

(5)

The SUBJECT stated that the KGB are able to differentiate

between Anericans who are assigned to Moscow and are actually the

State Department type, from those who have an intelligence background,

by the lact that the intelligence type of people do not ascociate trich

the kussian girls, that is they will not go out with them alone, whereas

the State Department type will.

Also, over a period of a month or two,

they invariably are able to find evidence that the Intelligence types

have been nasturbating.

This 1s usually detected through close exam-

ination of the individual's tovels and bed sheets.

RUSSIAN U-1 AIRCRAFT

(h) On 25 Febzuary 1J04 during the evening meal, a discussion was

had regarding the recent alrplane crashes noted in the newspapers and on

TV in the United States.

friends who are test pilots and who are now engaged in testing what he

reforred to as a U-l type of aircraft that 1s faster than any other

aircraft

In the world. He added that these friends are highly paid

but they have very dangerous jobs.

SECRET

---

## Page 6

13-00000

SECRET

$262: 622 C. SD/1

SUBJECT'S FATHER

(1) The SUBJECT also made reference to his father during this

meal, describing him as a very tall and extremely vell-built individual,

and one who was extremely intelligent and a self-made, self-educated

man. He learned the shipbuilding trade mostly through his own research

and study, and also from the SUBJECT's grandfather, who was one of the

first shipbuilders in fussia. The SUBJECT added that his grandfather

died at the age of 94. He also stated that after the death of his

father, a memorial was built in his memory since he vas considered

a very capable director of the government shipping industry.

ras about the last time he saw his mother and brother and sister, as

other me brother unt riter, on

they all went to this ceremony in honor of his father. He also

Indicated that there was a periodical which gave a complete run-dow

on his family background, including that of his grandfather and his

father, and it vas well publicized; and this he believes had a lot

to do with his being able to get some special preference and move

along as fast as he did in the KGB organization..

KGB PRESSURE ON FAMILY

(3) On 27 February 196 during lunch, the SUBJICT stated that he

has been informed that the KGB is putüing pressure on his immediate

family, particularly his mother. However, he said he was not overly

worried about her because she is well-off financially, and being up

In age there is not much they can do to here

However, what concerns

him most Is the fact that they have already started to play on the

sympathies of his two children and his wife.

The SUBJECT stated that

he was anticipating this; however, he did not think that they would

start so soon to pressure the fanily. However, he does have some hope

that In due time he may be able to get his family, out of Russia. This

hope' he said was given to him by the Chier of SR Division.

LIBRARY OF CONGRESS PENETRATION

(k) On 25 February 1964 during a sightseeing tour of Washington

by vehicle, as ve passed the Library of Congress, the SUBJECT pointed

to the bullding and stated that "ve have people vorking In there"

Special Agent Stanley C. LACH said, "who is 're'?" and the SUBJECT

answered,

"KGB". He continued by stating that this as a good place

to place people because they could readily learn by just watching

what research was being done in the Llbrary of Congress by the military

SECREI

-G-

---

## Page 7

13-00000

SECRET

1252 622

• SD/1

and thereby get an idea as to what the militacy was planning in the

way of armaments and things of that nature.

The SUBJECT also advised

that the responsibility for getting Information surreptitiously fron

American Embassies in foreign countries who employ Indigenous personnei,

falls within the confines of the KGB.

He stated that the way they go

about this is to work through the indigenous personnel and arrange to

enter the embassy at special times during the night. They would first

make a close survey and a photograph of the area in which the embassy

keeps its classified material, then they would subsequently enter this

area and open up the safes. When he was asked how this was done he

stated, "oh, combinations to safes are not hard to acquire. He said

that the important and difficult part of this activity is taking the

material out and photographing it and then placing it exactly as it

was before they touched It.

JOIN Do

SECRET

-7-

---

