104-10052-10407|

SORT

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief of Operations, DD/P

SUBJECT : Project LIEHPTY (Renewal)

WH - Mexico

1. he attached project, originating in WH Division, is
presented for renewal for the period 1 December 1959 through
31 November 1960. The project provides for physical and photo-
graphic surveillance operations in support and exploitation of
other Mexico City operations, particularly those targetted at
Soviet personnel and installations.

2. Authority is requested to obligate $84,910 from the
DD/P-WH Division operating budget: $48,485 for fiscal year
1950 and. $36,425 for fiscal 1961, subject to the availability
of funds. These sums include $61,910 compensation for five

- contract agents (three of whom serve as principal agents for
segments of the project), and sixteen support agents; $3,500
for vehicle maintenance and commercial carrier travel; $7,500
for operational equipment; $5,000 for maintenance of three
safehouses; $2,009 for additional safehouse, post office box, |
and vehicle rental; $1,000 exchange commodities; $2,000 “key
money, broken contracts, etc.; and $2,000 for the purchase of
information, documents, payment of bribes, etc.

3. The attached renewal request, prepared in the Division
and suggorted b @ prepared in the Pield, reviews i
activities of the > during the oast and present i
@ detailed of nds requested. ‘oject,
operate: (a) contract agent Oliver G.
SCAN
exp
tions, to case various installations of interest, acquire pro-
perty, ete.; (b) a photographic surveillance team, under prin-
cipal agent Raymond H. NDE, utilizing three houses or apart- n
ments and one photo truck; and (c) a physical surveillance team
under principal agent Simon D. CLACKETT, consisting of three
trained members at the ‘present tis Tne attached renewal
request reviews the activities and accomplishments of the pro-
ject in terms of these three segments and in relation.to pro-
ject objectives. SCANTLING's contribution to the collection
of operational information.-certeining. fo-Soviet ‘personnel and:
iastallations is regarded by the Station as unique. He-also.

PLING is an independent asset who is used to follow-up and |
cit operational information.on target personnel and installa- !

5 228e |

SEGRET



14-00000

- ¢ - SECRET C

trained CLACKETT in’ radio controlled mobile surveillance.
SCANTLING aiso nas rendered valuable support to the LITACIT
operation having gained entry .to the target under a fabri-

ted cover. He has also cased and prepared reports on the
[ABBY target in vreparation for future operations and per-
ed investigations of numerous other Station targets of
opportunity. He investigated many leads from other audio-
surveillance operations énabling the Station to maintain
current data on various Soviet contacts and resulting in a
recruitment attemot which, while unsuccessful, is. believed
to indicate future potential along this line. He has fur-
ther been used to develop radio procedures for the mobile
teams and to rent various properties in support of other
Station operations. ‘The, GERENDE segment, using three base
houses for photography, produced upwards of 12,000 photo-
graphs during tae year. One base has recently begun taking
motion pictures of Soviet personnel in the course of conver-
sation waich have been forwarded to FI/D for possible exploita-
tion by lip reading analysis. This segment also operates the
mobile radio surveillance vehicles. A mobile photography. sur-
veillance truck has been used during the project year for
coverage of various Station targets which do not warrant the
establishment of permanent photographic bases. GERENDE has
also served to rent post office boxes, hotel rooms, etc., in
support of other Station operations. During the past project
year CLACKETT, who returned to Mexico in early April 1959
after Headquarters training, spent the. following two months.
being trained by SCANTLING in mobile surveillance techniques.
He then undertook training of a four member team which was
d ready for operationel use toward the end of the project

Two additional contract. agents, Wilma J, FIORDALISI and
Louise J. MACRINO, performed translation and support functions.

mErG

4, Appronriate staff components concur in recommending
renewal. 1

(a) @I-Staff notes that the CI value of the project
is difficult to judge since it appears thet much of the
ae produced remains in the Station for exploita-
tio However, OL-Stait remarks that the value.of the
gro ject should be increased when the CLA ACKZTL surveil-
danee team-enters into active. operation. Gi-Staff sug-
that the Station be queried as to the pretext or
tances under which SCANTLING frequently. visits
Paraga de_iioreno, the occusant of, the:
tothe Sovies Installation’



. rr _ SECRET ¢

(b) #I/OPS notes that while the project review pre-
sents a clear picture of the aims and objectives of the
various segments, it does not provide, except in-the
case of SCANTLING, detailed indication of the value or
usefulness of the other.segments, particularly the photo-
gvaphic activity.” FI/OPS requests that the Station pro-
yide such an appraisal during-the first quarter of 1960.
“PI/OPS recommends strongly that the photo coverage be
reviewed from the standpoint of value and usefulness with
a view to determining whether the LILYRIC activity could
not be safely eliminated and the additional photographic
coverage. conducted on a more selective basis, without
materially affecting overall usefulness. “#2/OPS notes
that, in the absence of further proof of usefulness, the
color photography end noving pictures appear to be an
unnecessary luxury. -#I/OPS commends the careful handling
of the CLACKETT segment and requests that the next project
action include examples of the team's progress.”

. 5. I recommend renewal of Project LIEMPTY as presented
with attention to the staff comments in paragraph 4 above.

thal keg~

Chief
Foreign Intelligence

Approved:

et Outline

Re

Brow
Por C/6CD ~~ -s/#. Youngblood

