# 104-10172-10301

## Page 1

104-10172-10301

SECRET.

FOUTING AND RECOSO SHEST

R101 i

lipa, the core shoot mi do dart, as aton the

dramant a filed

COMMENTS

lei sent to side

TO

wE/e

Z

6/26-1 /

2% RF

MICROFILALO

AUG 27 10:9

DOL: MICRO. SER.

4-5:

What else do we have in Solas

He Keem the (7E) 3 85 C60

whim 9 have seen. Let's disco

7.

8.

LASTE

KIE

10.

ORNY

@FIO) -2915

22

122.

14.

85.

16..

17.

16.

1w.

RIDIFI

It Colittl

RETURN TO GIA

Mackground Use tini,

• Do Nat Reproduca

86006)

PILE NUMBLA

72201-15015 MINUTES

In ticke 59, 5FMA$03982

---

## Page 2

14-00000

10

1880

DISPATCH

Chial, Ms

Chief, s

22(07116,5262

201-720150

FROM

HAO.

SIR.

Chler of Statloa

REDCA?

17 July 7999

_I.

MARIO FOR INORING

NO FOCAIN: HOURIO

Coalstla" hmas with untgorty Yes DOLUBHt.

Home.

22

ELSE PRACTISI

(OTA 73902

&I QUALDIED NO CUS OUTY

182, s9ae

this-inde

1.

On 28 Juna Coatille duritad Molub to have lumas dis dia at the saroy

Restaurant in Halriakl, an it was dostille'o turn to pay the bill. Dolabo

Irst remarka concerned the amount of york he bad to do la the bonsulato.

a ho vas alono there now aince Mihae) LIOTH Inderero doll.

natal that luable had sen obtainod the diplombli sille of Third Socro

tary and was wrently in Moscow for core tuning prior to a NCS assignment

sonorhero braldos Halalnkie probauly alther lundos se stocitola,

stated that be mleand lyubtmor tremendounly brts africo rise and parscaally.

He wan vary fond of lyubtnor and often remarted what as Intalligat young

man he ve.

2o. The corversation then turod to Costillo a recent vacation la Lapland.

Golab agatn toli Contille that ho vas not galag to be ablo to take a

vacation this jour an the nev Aubanador mited Lin to remala In Helsinkl.

Goiub then statod to Costille, "I have heard that you spork fluort Rusalan."

Costllle statod that that was very complimentary but that he apoke about

no good Rusalan as Goluò apoko Engliah.

Oostille fold hin that ha had

studiod Ruaslan at the Infverity of Callfornin end on his own but that

about all ho could do nor was understand and rend sen and that what littio

mendag ability he had a practically gone. Dales commentod 1t vas

good that Costille Inew son Fusinn and said thri more Americans should

study 1t. Dolas then asked why Dostillo vas not trylag to leprove hia

Cortille answered that he was trying to learn to speak Finnish

Ind thint 1t was too much of a chore to study to inuages at the sure time.

Golub sald that what Costilla noelod was more practice in Mussian and pro

oseded to spoat in Rusalas.

In aotuality Gost1lle's Russian has decreased

considerably and he van able to snaily convinoe Calut that ain Russian vas

far from fluent. An waa mentloned la previous disgetabes, Costille had

novor attempted to conocal fron dolud the fact that 3o kaev Bussian. The

Ionuo just nover cano up,. Sinoo Golub 1s fluent In Fimih, the coumon

language automativally boome finalet.

I wo hal realised the Galub

contaot uns golng to bo so frequent, vo vould have mulo it a peint at the

firal to ba the one to toll dolub tiat Contillo Jaws sono Russian. 1118

alght have undo Golub a Ilitle suspioloua.

At the last meeting Costille

had mantloned to Golub that be bad boen studying Innian some. Golub

did not reasond, so evidently ho elther did not bear or underatand Costillo.

Golns asked Cootille what other languages he had stasted. Contillo toid

his he had atadiod Spiniah in high sohool. Golnh maid that this vas n

ousy language and not tulled too much in the Sories Delon.

After making

thia remart, he quiakly corrested hinnell nad stata! that a largo perrantago

of the world spoke Spanish and that it was beooming & wash nore popaler

language is se Sortet Ualon,

Contille mentioned Lse. Bassica lad becoze

a very popular langunge in the States and that vittle the lant two years

bla tigh.10soo) In Caltiorala, which was quito mall, eren las affering the

Ruelen languago. Thia pesed to depress Golians i

Ille mpenking Ansulan to Costille, Colub began valsa sha familiar fore of

the lasago racher than the polite corm uhlah tir suo had alvays usod.

looker at Costille and ared lf it would bo alriett to use first names.

Whoa Costille sreed, he renchod acrosa thi Ladie an' sook Contulla

wind asstad come. ba had

Posta cordere a call deto do states cinda

inviratios tran Bogal to atient a stories at the surios Aliasy as a

8,7280

10da

69/5.6156

3/0V

*3841

---

## Page 3

COSTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

Satior baliot fun follured ly a raception on 5 duly.

Coattile auld that be

a so t'at aresiss ani vould like to atland and seat bogal.

5.

Canò aloo mentional that lie wife was going back lo to Suriet Union for a

tus sailo seat and vacation aid that ho bas polne to te a bachelor again for

sane perlod. lo siared tia: ho was glad to cot rid o' lar for a while begruso

so "botharers hia i lori nou ha could bring hono vice be vanted and do what

'Ho stated that olio Costillo ant to vero iuth bauhelore they

evald "have soma good times together".

6.

Jant before the two partid alter lunch Golub stated that he had heent fon

Maow about bla repart a vhat hi termed "cho Volodys Inoident».

22 CFE1/5819).

Fe said that Tolodya had bean called in anl properly chratised.

Tees Costille anced Dulut shat vould happen to Volodys, Golub respunded that

be inde't kaow.

Golus almo statod that Moscow asked bix Sou Custille vas

abio to deduce that his ruom vas being anarchod at that partioular time.

Costlllo statal that 1t 31d1't trka in amateur detootiro to Ilgure that out.

Goinò Laughed and agroed.

8

9.

10.

11.

4/0V

0 $ 530

The iboro fortion of thin dispatch vere written on l july. It la now 7 July,

und the rocoption martioned in para four nbove never cars off. When first

Imitling Costille to thie rocoption, Golub made it quite certain thet Costillo

mn tone for the 7tli and mada bin promiso to come.

on Shuraday, 2 July,

Colmo called Costille again to make sure he had not forgotten the date.

Costillo told him that us yet ho had not roofed the offcial Invitation

fron begal, Galub stated that ho would receive it abortly. By Monday, tha

day of the receptios, stlli no Invitation had been recelvod. At 1600 Costille

decided to phone Golub to find out what had happened. Galub informed him

then that the reception hal been postponed until the Suriet Ambeasador, who

is presently torring Italand, returned to Halainki, Airo apologized for

not talilag Costille earliar and Invitod Costille for lunch the nart days

Y Jane.

Lunch with Golub has just been completed. He was more jovlal than we have

over soon his. He admitted that he had been up all evening drinking with a

soad friend and hadn't fuily sobered up yet.

His first move at lunch was

to erder vodica and beer. He again apologised for the air-up on the reception

Invitatlons but said that tis Ambassador dids't arrivo daci in Holaink 1n

tine. Is promised to sand Costille an invitation as soon as lihe date had

beea confirmed.

The junch was spent sostly in polito, (Ilandly conversation.

Golub remarked that now Honow had given hin the authority to give Americans

vloes without prior approval fron Mosuow. He stated that this would make

his job wash ensler, and as long as he was convinoed the Anerican was "all

right" ho could giro him bio visa in a natter of minutes.

When Coatille

mentionod that he had a personal friend coming to Halainki for a viait in

October, Galub stated that Costille should Insist she see Leningrad and that

1f Coatille would bring her to the Soviet Embassy, he would give her a vian

Dalub then asted Cost11le to explain the "Janos Dean" problem and the negro

problem 1n America to his. Glub stated that he personaily did not 11ke

negroes and adallted that the sovlot Union also had a juvealle delinquancy

problem (®It11yag1") Golub mentioned that Khrushoher was coming to Finland

soon thich alwys neant a lot of vort for the Dabassy. Ea shen proceeded

to triis about what a great, intolligent, but practioal man Thrushober was.

oles also made some derogatory ranarka about his wife,. and how glad ho vas

that she lal goro to hosoon.

Returning fren lunch, Golus insisted that

Cord'lo stop by bis açartrent to hear sono of his Russias rocords and have

• Glasa cl cognac.

As they walked through the door, Golud, at the top of

31a Tolse, 1n Runaian Jaliei, "Is there any ore home?

It da so nice not to

have anyore ansver."

Golub is extremely proud of his rocord collection

which 1s amall bat Inciades sone Challapin, Ichalkovaky and Prokoviey records.

The garment 1s quito large with many rooms, but all are julto sparsely

ruraladed. One of two rousa aren't furiahed at all. He bas a small West

CLASDORATICON

+ 999022913709

• ina

1071:.09

To 467 lens?

Lamaro

2.

---

## Page 4

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

German record player and a soviet TV not la the living mos. They spent

about an hour in hia apartment, and Contille mentloned that he vould have

to bo loaring to go baos to vort. bolui proniued to phone Costille eoon.

01111m Lo Cortille

Distributions

2

= 472

-BR

18 4 530

AUCT

BIRACESIORMS

41 9 38 9a

AAO $18

068-150156

PAGE 100

---

