104-10177-10244)

aa) fa set RETURN TO CIA
SEERET Background Use Only
Do Not Repreduce

REPORT OF COVERT ASSESQERT

NOTE: ‘This Report of Covert Assessment is entrusted to C/SAS. It may de
retained ia the operational personnel file. In the event further interpretation |
of the inforriation provided on this iniividual is desired, please contact the
Assessment ani Evaluation Staff, MS, extension 3247.

Nome: Ricardo MORALES Navarrete Date of Assesament: 3 June 196%
Date of Birth: 1k June 1939 Biucation:
COMMENTS:

1. Mr.:Moreles was given group intellectual tests and interviewed briefly
on 3 June 196%,

2. Mt» Morales is of average intellectual ability compared to other
assessed Cubans. He often gives the impreesion of being brighter then he is,
and he ts looked up to by others on the team as ‘being highly intelligent.

3. Me. Morales says that it is difficult being a leader becmse of the
need’ to get people working together. He seems to enjoy the responsibility,
however, end tries to run a democratic shop. His preferred method of handling
Gisagreenents is to talk them out. "We mist be humans and reason." Additionally,
Mr. Morales séems to be feirly understanding of people, and he tries to put
himself in ‘the. place of others to understand their views. But he is not Just
an.erbitrator, for his 1s a forceful personality capable of exerting a good
deal of influence on those around him. Mr. Morales is a complex persons
Within. a-gendrally-idedlistac-and philosophical -nature-he often. functions. as-a..

“practical, realistic, and frank young man. We identifies strongly with causes,

end-whén be vas with Castro he was entirely with him - in the G2; nov he 16

* entirely against him. Actually he first started in revolutionary activiti¢s

for the glamour and excitement, but his involvement quickly téok on an ideological
basis. Necessity and lack of alternatives also serve to keep him involved. His
future, he says realistically, is very uncertain. He hasn't eny high level vocational
skills, yet he mst support his family. Our organization provides him the best
outlet for both his ideological end financial neede.

4, il in all, Mr. Morales impresses us as en above average man for his
Job, compared to other assessed Cul one
/ \Db
‘ssessnent and Evaluation Staff.
Medical staff

AO/- ALS GAZ

SECREL
