104-10418-10046

diane cecipceua te Jere eee ieee (2:e-)-r0r9 £ Ma? au ov
| 7 REPRODUCTION BY OTHER
. { SE co Rat euer: ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIB
Pr ‘UNIT NOTRIEO_.. saESRSSSEEs a5t) AEEERESH sbageascssnsraccancesssenee ¢ sas
. STAFF
ADVANGE COPY ISSUEO/SLOTIED ae 2 i
y ACTION UNIT . 7 4
i || er. fe : Oo euk3 i
lefeys 1 ESS eae Sea og: cJeuri_| a 5
— F “ ay, a
az fo}
Si EVES ON
T 882004 ETAT 62 IN 906466
TORS3019352 APR 76 [kOND) 72167

SECRET 3¢1657% APR 76 STAFF
cyt 2467

(3-20 15-6 5-4
TO} DIRECTOR, INFO

RYBAT (PLAADLANKET
REFS 72422 (SENT QNLY DIRECTOR) cay

i. FUR REF Sponaiie THAT ne

23 APR CONTACT SETWEEN PHILIP AGEE AND STEPHEN Mt wessnane
WEISSHAN (WHO Ih CALIFORNIA) SAID HE HAD FOUND AN ARCHIVES
ON AGENCY MATERIAL WITH A GREAT DEAL OF INFORMATION. HE
MENTIONES INDONESIA AND SAID THAT BAUKER WAS PERSONALLY IDENTI-
FIED AS "UR MAN,SY CIA, AGEE THEN TOLD WEISSMAN THAT HE COULD
ARRANGE AN INTREDUCTIGN TO DEW SUKARNO AT ANY TIME FOR WEISSMAN,
AS WELL AS A JOURNALIST WHO KNEW SUKARNO PERSONALLY.

2. gasuad WAS SOURCE OF ABGVE INFO, AFTER CHECKING THEIR
RECURLS» ON 29 APR gasil ADVISED THAT THEY BELIEVE THE

JOURNALIST IN GUESTIGN TO BE ONE WILLIAM Ly OLTMANS oF
__ eee eeemerecmema Sremmnemeasariog

ANERBOS 2e5 A

ERDAM, THE NETHERLANDS, THEY SHOWED TO US

THREE LETTERS wrICK HAD BEEN MAILED TOGETHER IN ONE ENVELOPE
POSTMARKED IN THE, UKs ON 9 OCT 75, THE ENVELOPE aS ADDRESSED

"PHIL AND ANGELA" ANY GAVE THEIR CAMBRIDGE ADDRESS, THE LETTERS

oes statin Hew Soc CR eet

woe oe : ae

G-%0 : a


chote sre Ossi py rer TOTAL comes Run By
: SECRET TSSUING OFFICE 1S PROWIOIT
fe ee ONAUNIT ey i ee cet ese EGE St i tn eee : eee
STAFF
ADVANCE COPY ISSUEO/SLOTTED __ : at 2
ACTION UNIT ; 1 Tt
1 alimeetie asl scien vR
N asi 2 i
ACTION ¢ F — omens oe 2 :
7 .
J. iii ea ng
T 8eove4 EVEY. P 90646
82ce ELa762 AGE G2 IN 06466
TORS 3219352 APR 76 72167

WERE DATED JUL 75, GNE HAVING GEEN SIGNED BY OLTMANS AND THE

OTHER TKO BY DEWT SUKARNO, OLTMANS' LETTER WAS AN EXPRESSION

OF INTEREST IN ay SENATE INVESTIGATIONS AND PARTICULARLY IN ANY
ASPECT REGARDING INDUNESTA, OLTMANS CLAIMED TO HAVE KNOWN SUKARNO
QUITE WELL» AND SAIG THAT HE HAD HAD SEVERAL DISCUSSIONS WITH SUKARNO
ON THE SUBJECT CF THE ACTIVITIES OF THE CIA AND HOW THE CIA WAS
TRYING TO OUST SUKARNG+ DEWI SUKARNO'S TWO LETTERS HERE REQUESTS
FOR JNFGRMATIGN ON THE RESULTS UF THE SENATE INVESTIGATION AND

HOPED THAT THE INOUIKIES WOULD SERVE TO CLEAR HER HUSBAND'S NAME.

3, SINCE THe LETTERS WERE ACTUALLY WRITTEN TO SENATOR FRANK
CHURCH AS HEAL OF TRE SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE, @relag FOUND IT
INTERESTING THAT AGEE WOULD BE ABLE TO OBTAIN COPIES OF LETTERS
WRITTEN TO A UsSs SENATOR IN HIS OFFICIAL CAPACITY AS HEAD OF SUCH
A COMMITTEE. Gaslad WONDERED JF SOMEONE ON THE SENATE COMMITTEE HAD
SENT THE LETTERS TO AGEEs BUT WE FEEL IT POSSIBLE THAT OLTMANS/
SUKARNG GAVE COPIES UF THEIR LETTERS TO PEOPLE IN PARIS WHO GoT
THEM TQ AGEE

4, REQUEST ADLEES TRACES OLTMANS WITH INDICATION OF WHAT MAY
BE PASSED Gacvhe)

5S, FILE! 736-4673. E2, IMPDET.

on SECRET
