# 104-10193-10125

## Page 1

104-10193-10125

SECRE,

(+161-862692 800)

SUBJECT AND PROJECT FILE REQUEST

AND FIELD NOTIFICATION OF ACTION

*O: RiO

2609

2,02

Britor

Tilace

8-2.9291

A. COMPLETE ITEMS I THROUGH IT.

3. ITERA D-ALL FILE. TITLES MUIT .DE STERILR SINCE THEY MILI

POCAR ON THÉFIELO COPILS ANO DA MACHINE LISTS

C. ITIMS & AND S-USEFIRST THALE LETTFAS OF DISPATCH SYMBOLS

FOR FILLO STATIONS ANO LIST MEADQUARTERS CLEMENIS ACCORD.

ING TO ESTABLISHED ABBREVIATIONS.

INFORMATION

FOR HEQUESTERS

CIM SUMS 3SCMAS TORE DE ME TAY INTE

CITE ANT

FILES, SUCH AS 201 OR

PROJECT FILES THAT

ACIRICO TO

THE FILL COULALD BY THIS MIQUESS, ITEM O SAY ALSO BE VERO

TO GIVE REASONS FOR THE. ACTION BEING REQUESTED, TO INCHTIFY

THE, TYPF. OF MATERIAL TO OF PLACEO IN A FILE

OR 90 MARE

OTHER CAPLANATORY REMARAS.

F, ITEM 10-A RECOROS OFFICER MUST SIGN ALL FILE ACTION HE=

QUESTS, CONSULT YOUR AMO ON ANY PROULENS THAT ARISE.

D. ITEM 8-ALL REMARKS MUST BE STERILE.

INFORMATION CONCERNING FILE

TYPE OF FILE

FILE MUMDER

CARLOURT BANGTO

SUBJECT

PROJECT

19

1Z0

3. FILE TITLE (SPECIFIC SUBJECTI

AMYUM

Group

8. INITRESITO STATIONS

HKH

5. INTEHESTED HEADQUARTERS DESK

ACTION REQUIRED

FILES ACTION

PREN FILE

AGENO FILE TITCE

DISPOJITION

AMPLYSIS ACTION

CLOSE FILE

(INDICATE DISPOSITION)

MOLO AS UARESTRICTCO

FILE

MOLO IN FILES AESTRICTEO

TO (DESA)

RETAIN

DESTROY AFTER

DESTAOY

YEARS

ACMARKS (FOR FIELO DISTRIBUTION)

PAEPAMF FOLOFR AND

AGEND TO REQUESTER

03

112.3

9. COMMENTS (INCLUDE SPECIAL HEADQUANTEAS ROUTING INSTRUCTIONS)

materal pertie. t te the MPR. (ne longer t lie

filed in

19-120-131)

10.

COONDINATION

-20C10/08828.0.

HE GUEST AGAROVAD AY

03

PUNCH AND VERIFYING SECTION ACTION

SUOSTITUTE CARO

CAOD CARD

EFFRETIVE DATE

REMOVE CARO

FILE NUMICN

*2dus 1963

FORE 812

1L39

USE PREVIOUS

EOITIONS

1.1

SECRET

1.5

30

I - FILE COPY

03

Здр.

---

