# 104-10167-10446

## Page 1

104-10167-10446

SECRET

Ding tang

5 January 1462

SUBJEETS.

Overtzs Eccounts

1:DIN2 - In daly 1566, Hoadquarters strisod Etition

to assor lte post of dary iniel la the FRi isractorato End visa

routine difficulties falloud

Including no funding by ta is snail finally la August 1900 the

Ltatica La to divance Findo i=t inbject a Gus edupanion

Includina $150 each roguire dy tie conculate as eridence ol

solvency:

Tara 1s no incitamin in the dries es to truthor

Chis 1300 mao to do scoorbed an a sudis arcense or shothor de

was to ba repayod. loserar,

vinca tat ties, i-ulfl has becas

& BOCHIILY TIN-

ão in condidared an oftartarist ind associate

with reoria nith sten luziù sádna Do contace.

Can of thase

individnals is dascribed as boding only ta Ellgatost axcass to

Caio mEllo Materesto catsTeasing and LaraTel to lUBAL inBarsta.

Accordinzil, 16 18 racontanico ital lais aivase do trillen oft

vithout abiopting to socare rapayaaat.

2o 35ALI-1 - Panda mara casted to dialil by tha principal

ezent for ana in the litil pro;ct. loversr, as conventional:

palitical action on the laser Drout lecasa sure nal sore aliticalt,

Lhase fanis sado their vey icrasinily into tho iMP liar choat sinco

so taking ovar of the less soreant is the iocaunlats lalt so roa

opan to ofposition alacerts escape thas of sabotago and clandostine

activily. In April 1901, Gorion illindlin, principal agont vich Mcca

McAll-l sas in cortect dias artasted and altisstuly daported there

was no furthor contact rita kail fallodas ta arrost of alballas.

Tha funds that had bown fissad to bin varo prasaably nood by lie laP

arrest the end of captater liti. according /l/FA-PROP 1u.

rogusting that tha rus os ichi ai charged siainet the dient bei

arittor off voti becanso st1 laada vera unicablualy expesdad by the

WiF underground 15 furtharacte oi anti-astro oujactives and tocaine

ANdal Listols 1a eller coad or 10 prison nd sccountinga cEn

Charufor tot de sacured.

3O IOdIO UIS LARE - The com al 1400 vas passed to subject en

29 inary no expense noury sor a sop tour bo ves to tea alass dolla

SECRET

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Onty

Do Not Reproduce

1/g0

---

## Page 2

cd-idonor

SECRE.

ILIE CORTI AgRrO and othar Cubans.. The ples called for 4be u0

0I DINI LeRs's plase pilotod oy ble. Tore ses changod ston 1t iso

fourat to to too difllenit to fot tho Racessary paralto for tha plene.

Bart, Dlll and iChTi men paisy comorcially, diet pelthar vanted to

bo sponsesad ostonalbly by ls fiu. Flnally, CTZ wazt alone wten

DLAz balkod at aingiy balag uut 'a snadon. roatíro, DIli lane hod

begua to dabalo cstonaimly in axila jalilics 1n Miani, appoartd

bofore a congrascional cariltoa aid Exocaadad la asiing hinealt

uneless as a propaceada anest, ádiá ves nor ln cosiace und 505

Anally contidarid 11 praferablo sot to regnest contact váta lia to

try to calloct the astanca. Is Viou of tha sabsoquane tíno 10580,

1t 16 rocamerdod that tuo adrasca bs silten olfo

Stannerd Lo Shert

C/T/b/PL PROF

(5 Jan 62)

MT/b/PA-PsOPskPoreythe &

Distribations

Orig & 1 - Addressee

1 - WL/L/ PA-FBOP

1 - 14/4/BegiElry

I.- 201 Iiles

SECRET

---

