i04-0120-40373 oy

7 : 28 February 1961

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

FRO! +, Chief, S8/2 Desk : : *.
SUBJECT: COVER, ~ GENERAL

(Proposl for ARE“Assessnent’ of Potential
REDSKIN Agent Candidates)
#90682

1. Reference is made to my previous memorandum pertaining
seaadanottaaetinaia? to the Subject as captioned, ending with the Memorandum for the
Record dated 21 February me

: 2. '$.indicated in th 7A eefenced nengesndim, ccG feels
that tHel_ ee copy of SR

_ Memoran dated 3F i r orandum dated 21

Febzrv2ry 1961) should bel utilized. This decisionws made

as a result of a conversation between Mr. Howard OSBORNE,

Deputy Chief, SR Division, and Hr. Jack SOUTHARD, Chief, coc /xc.

3. A meeting was called on 27 February 1961 to determine
the type of cover organization that should be substituted for

this purpose. After considering the matter _at,length, it was

scertained that the Agency has a cleared service in

oles could possibly be utilized as an initial ,
assessment. This firm, the id

is located in the Union Trust Building, ie
and is managed By! pe Ngee SSO FETE, 95027
It was agreed that if the ould
provide the needed cover, two OTR psychologists would be docu-
mented in true name with that, fi
~., O'MALLEY) will make a trip_to| F
to determine whether Miss ig amenable to the proposed
arrangement .o The two psychologis selected were Doctors
BRADT anc nm whom credit checks were recently completed
vee pe nege iswits as to Agency employment.
A cia

om h. It was further ascertained at this time that Mr.
{7 ~ Howard OS39RNE desired that all training and assessment of
REDSXIN Agents who pass the initial screening be conducted

oosn3s

fn the next few days

t.|
ae ne “| bff?
| hy



outside the Washington, D. C. area. Most of the training will :
be conducted in an SR safe house in New York. The SR represen- H
tative will probably request a safe house in Baltimore for the it
final assessment and processing of those REDSKIN Agents, :
are cleared in the initial screening by either BRADT" o: 06 :
It should be noted at this point’ that SR Division plans H
process thirty or thirty-five REDSKIN Agents this year. Time i
is, of course, of the essence, in view of the fact that these i
people will have t- be assessed, security-~cleared, briefed, i.
and trained, and arrangements for grants made before the summer A
season. :

KUHNKS /aid (2-28-61)
PENDIN

i
{
i

ec: SSD #95018 ‘

See Ud |

