# 104-10005-10014

## Page 1

1104-10005-10014

..:

30 July 1964

-1960 hicenal.

-QUA.

-Meg. fist

hunting accut

MEMO FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Soviet Hunting Societies

1. At the request of C/SR/CI on 29 July 1964, efforts were made

to assemble avail: ble information on soviet hunting clubs or societies.

The following sources were tapped:

Defectors -

1) Deryabin - he is on leave and unavailable. The index

to DR-2 and SR CE-2 reports was reviewed, but no pertinent reports

found.

2)

_- contacted by phone. He stated that he

has no information on the subject. He never belonged to one, and had

been hunting only once in his life. He did not feel that a discussion

in person would be fruitful since anything else he might say would be

a "poor guess."

3)

- Contacted in person by Bob Steele.

had no inforation.

At the age of lu he had known a hunter,

but that is the

extent of his contact with the sport.

4) Victor Petrov - Peter Kapusta acquired a four page

cormentary from Petrov and possibly another defector colleagae. It

is being translated by Serge Savitskiy.

5) Artamonov - Contacted by feter K#apusta in person.

Peter will write up the conversation and provide it today early.

b. The manual of library acquisitions was reviewed and the

only noted periodical relating to hunting was "Okhota i Okhotnich'ye

Khozyaystvo" which published monthly.

The July 196h issue was borrowed.

A Soviet book listing all(?) periodicals was checked and no publications

on hunting were found under the sections which included "sport" and

c. A review of the past twelve issues of the "Survey of the

Soviet Press" turned up an item about Turkman SSR intensifying controls

on hunting weapons.

Copy obtained.

do

After phone discussion with Dan Bowanko of TSD, I went over

to westout and picked up keros copies of several documenta pne of which

listed requirements for obtaining a hunting license.

ne was an origina

Instruction booklet furnished by the manufacturer with 3! shotg ns.

e. Al Valpey of OCI was asked about sources of information,

buthe could suggest only an Intellofax run. Huntlay is on leave.

f. The Intellofax section of the library was conta:ted by phone.

The representative said that there was no catagory on hunting and that

they could only get a run on "sport." They! would check and call back.

TEy DiO. THEy CAM'я DO d'AU." ON HUNTiNe.

---

