# 104-10234-10155

## Page 1

104-10234-10155

MASE - ParLo Staton Aspoot

PArto StatiOn INTOlTONnA M1EA the AMIASH enta bogan La 1962, after AMLASH

cans to parto after attending the mlaint south Joatival that joar. In solelala,

AMASH) WAs ContRotod ly URUALI? (an Assor of the Parlo station uho attandod the

Pontival for purpores of Maruptian) and ly other KUBARI Mideta. It 10 not elear from

on 111oe Just uhan ALASs vas oraratod" but it appears that to nes ruorulted during

or shortly after the festival.

Im Parts ho ves 1a contast ulth Potor de KNINOHAN (probably la alias although

Even training 11 explosives ly OJIII (I bellevo) upon request of tha Parla Statlon.

No appoars to haye rofurad to PASS In late 19620 It 16 noS'IAna IS Other Parlo

Station personal vere in centand with Arasia during that portod.

ALASHA MIt AriTed la PArTO On ll Septembes 1919, conuz fron the Internaltional

dame hald 1n Poorto Alagro, Ernall, where he was In Contaat With TYPIC offiar.

was another coum shamal (dis daa baing med jalarily to lge.)o The Isaaquertora

TXPIO OFFICET, OVICH (2)o ATTITOR In ParLO On 9 Oataber 1963 aind ploised up the contrat

VItA ANASE/S whos ma bolng mintaid by ASPORTS aN IXININS No motinge with e

AASR/2 DOOK plEDO In KNIHUNt hon ne boot I reamber, Phase Airessiona consomed

oucH returned to Parta In Lato October, after dismadons at Hadquarter

•dosiro to tall vith am rigiloval onTors offloial enverning la plans and to obtain

ODOrE blening 11 posible. I a tot mam of oratly what happened at three

motino bul I sucedrod the imprecion don KnAllN that euna blooring tea gives.

MISTY! roturand do POHANN On 21 HoTeabos 1963.

It one during this tiult to Parte

: AMLASH"

---

## Page 2

Betallo, It usa alos apperant ly the Mino ACABRA LOSt that Do Me TANNAPIS vo

• Chat AMASE sould prel the eddross of lsuras"a parente fer ut lostero to

SUBARE (UESIATUS 10 MASO DE UNERATU/S).

ARRASIA nest ArTiTod 1n Parto 1n Lato lorenbes es enrly Debenber 1961. ANNIpa

SOCIOOD And OUTRICH (ty fron londquarter») unt vith Ma La Parto (ANto 1in0 1a

a sate house of the

AMASIA LOT fOr PERUIA Eros Indr1d e 10 Yebreury

19650 DurIng eNLO dY La PASSO ARASIA net the SOlleNinE IUARI stafforo ant

agentes

TOs E121 reGAlI daS 1a DOREDES 196A UNSRATIS bad a nasvota davation and

ATASTA playod an ingortand part 1a convining lISTAriS that la abaula cereo to

DIDADE subesquantãy unA ItA ARASTA to os tumo tle do seiral mporta ser

STOCMOOD. Fiase sootings suro tirot motiago el in tha hos of manaris.

DuRtig the otar, ATASTA tremled le ladrid as lonst one to mes vita ANtIdDis

and ArDUOS, I as not maro of sorulto of thee setinga eropt that ArtAsia a

neoklog the plycioal tortmente to carry out le plas to elladato Annuo

Thoro vas no Maltional contet ultA ARASHA la Parla euboequent do Tebrunty

1965 bat the

Jou 1812 rocall that vaa At137/3 uto nado

the ajallaga altah to MRPUR es 6 My

---

## Page 3

cd-idonor

1 47590 196619

JOT1A Btatlon pertenael inous to A131

Petar do 10IH

:aul 1o 5100K/00)

POtSY No CROANEI

JIRItOn Pe RODAPDE

Doo Mpadon

lelaaso A, OROTE

Iron Kia

Agente (isñalred to

WSWATOY

teTAre2s

A2.ASE/2

AIBAE

ANITPA

• 20t lnem itat altas uoedo.

sew motings vem tald 1n

nIillla hose 1n 1962/69. It 10 not Inoun 11 ottar otufs

pessomal (othor ahaa ONFRIOI) veso uot than by arasu/do

aelaldy sot kaom fos eure but ballere he ued obaytol.

AHIE/S IEE STOCEOOD 00

offsoer and enlaed Min thare.

•Tasia ds "piel', Prus Mne Ius usod enloss tald to AIASHa

LE UISATUE OF IASTAPUS.

oun to all hg en

• Eltarel Dee a8 Ancadoan Hospital, PArSO. AMASHA mt ME

braty whes sánl tulng uislara/s to hougital.

• nt la 1960 during enplosivos tredning la Pario, Dotalla nat

dagr00)

.

in?t

---

