# 104-10050-10049

## Page 1

104-10050-10049

PROHIBITED

REPRODUCTION

02188

Inside Washington

210c4 64

CIA Withheld Vital Intelligence From War ren Commission

By ROBERT SALLEN

cials who

actively oppose

on his yet to

be

used

ap

disinissal of such persons

or compressed

And PAUL SCOTT

"Soviet

against

West-

rom public office, at oth

form.

The

gas

IS

fatal

ern offici

dreds

of

er

timer

even having'

. within

WASHINGTON, Oct. 20,

Exccutive

Action,"

and

an

KGB agent

iLly

0j-

Chem eliminated'

seconds

physi-

- The Central Intelli

suppressed

CIA

Agency

withheld

docu-

outsid

Russla

cally.

gence

vital

intelligence

ment went into the shock-

have

SHP

this

with

"Such

activities

are

infor-

mation

from

ing delails of how agents

known to be

undertaken

the Warren

of KGB, the Soviet secret

a waiting

Conymission during its in-

police, arc trained to

do

against other

types

of

from Moscow

persons in the West, not-

vestigation

of the

assas-

away

with Western lead-

The

Murder

sination

of President

ers, including officials in

HIGHLIGHTS, Of che

ably

defectors from

the

U.S.S.R.

Kennedy.

the

the. commis-

U.S.,

and

from

other

and to

make

suppressed

estimate, which is.

in telligence

countries of

the Soviet

Despite

tlieir deaths appear due

sion's writlen request for

to natural causes.

in a security area

within

bloc.

"One recently reported

all documenls that might

One of the KGB's new..

shed light

on the assas-

ly

the tightly-guarde

assassination technique is

devised

assassination

are

as follows;

to

electrocute an individ-

sinalion,

CIA

authoritics

wapons is ,"a pnumati-

"It

has

been

reparted

val

by

failed to turn over a na-

cally. operated polson ices,that the

KGB

endeavors

luring

use a telephone,

him

to

tional

intelligence

esti-

connect

'atomizer, which leaves to remoyerthe thregted to a high-voltage wire,

mate

warning

that it

is : no

wound

or: other

Kremlin policy to remove

dence

exl. Sovlet interests pose

during a thunderstorm

from

public

office by

as-

dente"of the cause

sassination

Western offi-

While this deadly weap

ot ern governments; 3o m

"Another

involves

times

pistol

the

which

arranging

for : the

of

atejects

a poison

gas in

use.

Non-trace able

poisons have been report

which do not take of.

fect

until seycral hours

after being administered,

thus allowing an assassin

to be far from the scene

when his victim

dies.

"A knowledge able

source has

described

pneumatically

operate d'

poison

which

ice

atomizer

leaves no wound

or other

evidence of the

cause of death."

Congressional

investi

gators,

who

have

asked

that

the

name

of

their

committee

be

withheld

for security

dorl

that

reasons

re

CIA Director

ohin

McConc

inade

no

mention of this explosive

document in

his

secret

testimony

before

the

Warren

Commission.

While McCone furnish-

ed the commission with

the CIA's secret

lance

reports

surveil-

Harvey

on

Lee

Oswald's

cight

days in Mexico City

be

fore the assassination.

cluding

wald's

details

of

in-

contact

with

the

head KGB

agent in

Sovict

the

embassy

the

CIA

chiet

there,

gave

hint of the

Kremlin's

no

sassination

policy.

(CONTINUED

ON 8-33)

0000244

suppress

Documents

OTIER

U.S. intolll.

sence

experts,

assascinatione

shown

by: administrationi

•officials to Speaker

John

nerty

very

'du"

bious of Russia's co-Ox:

in line to succeed

istence lino,

dent Johnson.

that

the Warren

Whilo

FBI olficials

•Commis-

sion's

warnod

Speaker

tindings

mirht

have

mack, #

been

dedicated

diflerent

antit

this CIA

estimate and

Communist, that he is on

other

documents

sup-

the

list of Western off-

pressed by the 'State De

cials feared by. the Krem-

partment had bocn avail

CIA

has shown the No.

authority

2 man

able for study.

out

that

the

Stale: Department 22

government

the

CIA

report

listing

ithese

crot Soviet

suppressed evidonce link at'methods.

assassination

ong Oswald. with

ono oli

dia

Instoad, M.c Cio rmnut

employes, who fe.

cording

securily files,

Icarned bout the repout

"presenter.

DiD.

only

reccntly

from.con-

14 lin

JAft

marcel'

file

p. 8593

Who told

PROHIBITED

REPRODUCTION

---

