# 104-10128-10305

## Page 1

(04-1028-10305)

03

11/00

SIRENTIAL

chief, inosioal. courts dirister.

a lef, nursey tranci

Escurity Violation - itali closelind literlal

MAY 1960

INCIDENT:

at 2200 hour on tie it to sal 2025 arton 022

cIsssifiod docuints in a setal correspandence dinidar on top of one

of the denis. The Bight Locurity Officer.

rined thät the docunents vere SEisst coplue of official dispatches

vich he larounded al 22:5 hours.

IN. IT:

2. F.133

custodian of the doermente, advinod

that she mast have Inaivertently overloobod tien uben the secured

her office Lefore ionartini at about 1720 bours on 20 45r11 1960.

3. Y150

no wis norkin witi tise

secured ber norting area ir. loa: 2015 at the sane tire

did Exis

nicen the departed a fev sinutes after ?. 8a

she did not notioc ti exposed docarems mici: had been left in

secired by kiss

p3 In tys instanse it 1s not doered 82

propriate to charge hijas

with & volation of security

anilations since carontially her departure was tired with that

of 11s1

land ber boins last to lcave the rods 1s con

sidered to be a techricality.

do MI. David Pr1111ps, Will Staff Duty Chocker en 22 AJ1l

1960, doutle checked Room 2015 after 't had been vacated for, the

day and prior to 1.00 hours ve alto stated tial he did not sce

CONCISION:

» 5a As custodian of the eriosed classified neterial, Else

has responsibla for 1te secure storage. As the Staft

Duty Checker, ls. Pilllips was rosponsible for detecting the fact

that classifled saterial had not beer properly secured.

fallod to properly disccarje bis respective responsibilit; in

tiIs natico, eaci: will be charied viti: an Expored Classifled

haterial security violation.

CONFIDENTIAL

RETURN:

3C

Background dos Day

Do Noi Reproduce

---

## Page 2

GURHOLATAL

"JETs LOCUTIE Viol-tion - imperd Clareifled Faterial

5:3170 16 70 7:

6. 11551

and tiro intiline hare been en land by te

A rency since Parch 1950.

I reviet of teir rocords reflect so

iTerior security piolatio:s.

18:2098::

ther Holl' estahlat alcitional socurit covera,e in order to senrovo

securit; e nir:1 in i: and pricine any possible recurrences of this

0s siller incidenta.

03

CONFIDENTIAL

3/pl

---

