104-10054-10204

USSR WAC 168C MINSK 53 54.N 27 34 E
IWTOURIST GUIDE SVETLANA, NOTE CRANE IN BACKGROUND. SUMMER 1961.
OFFiciat Use OnLy (7,8, 19,25) . cia Bho019



14-00000

: i ‘ Seepet— . an

. ( : i

'
} me
(ese [-ZfPusla»
f a. A
i NMEMGKRANDUS FOR: Dinettor
Federal Eereau of investigation
SUSI£CT - + Assapsinntion of 3 resident John F, Leneedy

ue KAAMER.
- nop Lee HH. Osurhs TAKEN By mowch.
svat, Zyo% op hee rt Crete SOO Heer

3, In the course of our research of Giese pertaining to areas of
tho USSR ia which Lee Harvey 034.1 allegedly resided, a photograph
of an individual closely resembling UE ALD was uacevered.

Tush
2. Cur Giles indicate that tds photogragh [itachment A} came OSE

feom @ Color traaspareacy takea ia } lasx, bias Se ga or abot it Seguet Fimse-
1981, by aa American tuntiat, bors, Musica FS RRAMES, waove nddresa
at the time was. O. Box 983, Felvaag, Californis. U57-

: fa 3. The photograph appears to have veen taken in Zcentral’naya
Bloshehad’ (Centeal Square), wuich is located tn the center of hinax.
The beliding in the background hag Seen identified as The Palace of
4] Culture. Sin people ave depicted im the paotoyraph. The individual
second from ike right, Appears to be Las Harvey USSALD. It shavid be
pated ihat the ehirt this Individual is wearing sppears to be identical to
soe abirt UG%ALD is wearing ia tea paotegrazhs frum the group of 47
es paotographe frow ibe effects of G35 LD ubieh were lurearded to this
§ Ageacy ia your communteotiion vf 3 Larch 1944, file tum ber (3) 165-8255,
| subject: \pexsoiuation of Presigent Jubn T. KENNEDY. Copies of these i
two photegraphs of OSWALD are foresrded with this resortas Attachmest EB. |

a. Source of the photograph identified ane of the females ia the picture,
H possinly the one on the tefl, a6 Svetlana (LNG), an Interiot guide, Source
4 was accompanied by another Amurican, bisa ite RAMAN, 595 Steardeg

Feed, Solvang,
D AEE Were La

EL haetecan Toone sT Wie Bere sre
Bear (EL

ee SRCTRICTE CL [Kt PR.
TH -Qloh- gg ggpy RESTRICTED TO CL [i A.

poenan
<Pocument RumBe? ——ame 2

eine = ci oak LICY
for FOIA Reviews 4+ JUN 1976 at Dor- 289ey8.



14-00000

( Sache” (

Road, Setwang, Califoraia, whe is yeselbly the fecale avennd from
the loft in the phatogragh. Nase of she other individuals can be
further identified.

5. Mra, KAAKER and Miss RAMAN, both of whom sxe United
States citizeas, wera contacted by this Agency on 2 one-time basis,
foltysing theiy retera fram their toe? of tha OSER. The report of
thie cumiact, O0-8~3,212,947, dated 21 biareh 1942, subject:
Realities) Titov Pacada/ interrogation ta Minsk Follawing the Giving
Away of a US News Magasias, is Jorwarded ay Attachment C.

& Bre. KRAMER, who is deacribed as “an cider compnaian”
in the swarce description of Attacament C, furnished this Agency with
180 color transpareacies taken daring the trip. Attachment A ie caly
ae of the Ave transparencies af witch negative cozies wore made and
weialaed by this Ageaty, All of the 350. origiasi colar tranagarenciss
were returned te Mrs. KRAMER.

7. Sine NARLAN, referzed te ae “a college graduate’ in ths
source description of Attachment C, srovided this Agency with one
veal of Gmm color mevis Him mkea during ihe trip, The fra vas
viewed by this Ageacy aad vas aubsequently retoracd to boise NAMAN,

a, This Agency bse hed no ferthar contact with either Mra.
KRAMED og Misa KAMAN subsequent ta the contact reflected in the
report forearded a9 Attathment «.

9. This office would be inicrested la any pertinent informatica
which istervlews of Sirs. KRAMER and hiss NAMA by your ofdse
seight posasoly provide along the following sve:

a. A move positive identification of the individual ia
Attechment A tentatively identified as OSWALD.

b, The exact date and estimate of tae Muse of day whee the
-pretegregh (Attachment 3) vas tales. .

fe. Any information



c. Any iudormetion which could ald in identifying other
individuals ia the photugraph (Attachment Aj.

a. Ther merce, address, and any other identifying data
on the traveling companion who accempasied ra, KRAMER
and Miss NAMAN from Moseoe to Karsaw vin Minsk.

19, Divpemination of Attachmeat 4 and portinent identlizing
information to the President's Cummiseton on ihe Assaasiaation of
Prealdant Kenmedy is helmg delayed peniing receipt of your Bureae's
Aasings 4a thie mathor.

FOR THE OL2FUTY LINKCTOR FOR i LANG:

JAMES ANCLETON

CSCI = 3/780, 812

3 Zaclosares as cited above le paras. 2, 32% 5

Distrisetion:

Orig, k l + Addressee
Le O/CI
1- C/CUSIG
b- C/TU/ RSA
1+C/SR
1+ C/SR/CE
2+ C/SR/CI/R (hold cy & comeback cy)
1 SR/O/US/a
V7 = 201-289; 248

SR/CY Researeb:

gop 287 298

