# 104-10104-10351

## Page 1

104-10104-10351

UNCLASSIFIED

"INTERNAL

USE ONLY

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

CE IDENTIAL

SECRET

SUBJECT: (Optional)

FROM:

Raymond G. Rocca

C/CI/R&A

10% (Officer designation, room number, and

building)

1

Larry Houston

7D 01

2.

LAH

JKG

3.

DATE

RECEIVED

FORWARDED

EXTENSION

7468

FFICER®

NITIAL

AMA

8/4

NO.

DATE

1 March 1968

Num i each co column a show he comment.

7.

Larry:

This is forwarded to you

at Sammy Halpern's request.

As we see it, Garrison has

now reached the ultimate point

in the logic of his public state-

ments on the case since the

Playboy article. It's no longer

a matter of CIA having been un-

witting and then covering up for

agents or ex-agents. It's now

a matter of the conscious plan-

ning and carrying out of the

assassination. This is by and

large the Moscow line put out

through R. Palme Dutt--a long-

standing Soviet stalking horse--

in the U.K., Labour Review,

January 1964. The theme was

later picked up by Joachim

Joesten and other sources.

The cables are self-

explanatory about the Dutchman

involved. The file entries we

hold on him here just add more

detail to the unsavory portrait.

9.

10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

FORM

3-62

610 USE PREVIOUS

EDITIONS

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

• UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 2

• see:

INDEX$

O NO

CRASSIFS TO FILE NO..

X•REF TO FILE NO:

FILE RIDD

HET. TO BRANCH O

DESTROY DSIG.

6

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE L

SECRET

PEASON/UNIT NOTIFIED

TOTAL COPIES

COLLARS FOLDE ASTE

REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

ACTION

EUR & ERD COPY

ADVANCE COPY

185U60

UNIT

BLOTTED L

I TUBED.

"1516

SECRE 1 27ZIZ TEB: 68 CITE /THE, HAGUE 3870

DIRECTOR

KEYWAY

REF JOINT STATEUSIA MESSAGE THE HAGUE 3981 / m

1. REF FURNISHES DETAILS JIM GARRISON"S INTERVIEW

ON DUTCH TV (NTS) PRIME. T.IME 22 FEB: 68.

2. AS REF ALSO STATES, GARRISON INTERVIEWER -WAS

WILLEM L. OLIMANS (201-155221), LONG KNOWNTO STATION

AS LEFT WING, ANTI AMERICAN JOURNALIST AND TV PERSONALITY

REFERENCE TO OLIMANS 201 WILL REVEAL FACT HE WAS

PRACTICING HOMOSEXUAL DURING HIS INDONESIAN DAYS WITH

SUKARNO AND SHARTO AMONG OTHERS, AND HAS ALLEGEDLY

COMMITTED SAME ACTS NETH. •

3. DUICH PRESS GENERALLY FAVORABLE TOWARDS

GARRISON INTERVIEW, MANY COMMENTS ON. FACT HE APPEARED

LOGICAL AND INCONTROL OF HIS FACIS, MAJORITY OF

EMBASSY, USIS AND WOF IRM CONTACTS HERE AGREE GARRISON

CREDIBLE TO LARGE: PROPORTION DUTCH VIEWERS.

SYMPATHIZER

17, FOR INSTANCE, HAS STATED THIS VIEW AND FEELS

PROGRAM CREATED AN ALL TIMES PURIN

juas.

IMAGE:

IN NETH.

rikind don

27 FEB 691N59U54

SECRAT

file Oltman

ry Rasp cheorie

---

## Page 3

15, -6

PAGE 2 IHE: HAGUE 3870 SECRE I

SECRAT

FOLL FACTORS MAKE SOME EFFORT TO COUNTERACT

PROGRAM WORTHWHILE:

A• AS REF STATES, PROGRAM MAY BE MARKETED

ELSEWHERE IN EUROPE.

B. ALLUSION TO POSSIBLY A THIRD PART. OF INTER-

VIEW ST ILL TO COME MADE ON DUTCH TV THIS WEEKEND •

Ca. FACT PROGRAM APPEARED ON NIS, WHICH USUALLY

MORE MODERATE, AS CELL AS FACI PROGRAM APPEARS TO MADE

DEEP IMPRESSION DUTCH VIEWERS WHICH. EXTREMELY DAMAGING

U.S. IN GENERAL, WOFIRM IN PARTICULAR.

5. [STATION STYMIED AS TO WHAT POSSIBLE/ST AT ION

COULD TAKE TO COUNTER IHIS VICIOUS PROGRAM. EMBASSY

TAND STATION WORKING TOGETHER TO TRY TO DETERMINE HOW

PROGRAM ORIGINATED, I.E., DID OLIMANS ORIGINATE

IDE,

AND SELL II TO NIS OR. VICE VERSA. HOWEVER [STATION

BELIEVES IT WOULD BE COUNTER-PRODUCTIVE AS WELL AS

IMPRACTICAL TO ATTEMPT LAUNCH SECOND: PROGRAM ON THIS

SUBJECT CRITICIZING CONTENT OF OLTMANS INTERVIEW•

PERHAPS ONLY PRACTICAL POSSIBILITY IS TO PLANI VIA

SYPILOT SOME ARTICLES IN PRESS STRONGLY ORITICIZING

SECRAT

---

## Page 4

15-6:

PAGE 3/THE HAGUE 3878 SECRET

SECRAT

NTS FOR THEIR IRRESPONSIBILITY IN PUTTING ON THIS

PROGRAM. BELIEVE WE HAVE SUFFICIENT HERE ON OLTMANS

TO EXPOSE HIS SEAMY REPUTATION, BUT WOULD APPRECIATE

IF AVAILABLE ANY INFO ON GARRISON WHICH WOULD BE USED

AS BACKGROUND SHOWING HIM AS PSYCHOPATH SWE UNDERSTAND

HE WAS DISCHARGED FROM U.S. ARMY ON THESE GROUNDS) OR

OTHERWISE REVEALING HIM AS IRRESPONSIBLE PUBLIC

OFFICIAL.

HQS COMMENTS AND GUIDANCE ARE REQUESTED.

SECRET

wher

---

