104-10185-10227,

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Reproduce

Do Not

PROCESSING

Deputy Chief, FI/SA

saxcrOperat Lone] /TYPIC/AREUG oO
AMIG/1 ~ Money Hole by (5:

TERRES ROTROSES

ACTION: Aw Stated

REF: OCOA 7762, Dateu 1 Muy 1965 ow

1. As you will recall, the time of ANMUG/I's d
he bed sith him £1,509, $405.) which eG3 retainec by the (SUADOVE'Ss)
because their office believed that this might have to be
sturned beck t WHEN government upon request. Although
the foregoing position hardly appeared consistent with (BKABOVE’s )0|
surrender of documents and files which even more clearly were
the property of PBROMEN, you and LANCOSCH agreed that KUBARK's
interests vould be served pest by taking the documents and the
person and by not quibbliag about the bolding of the money.

2. In the absence of any news to the contrary, it appeara
that PERUMEN has not clained the money arc has no intention of
doing so. Accordingly, it would sppear thet (SMAROVE may bo
williay to tura over the $2,500 now. ol

3. As motters stand, KUBARK hes tarned over $2,500 to AMMUG/L
but our tax unit considera that this sust be treated as taxable
income. Hence, in order that AMHUG/1 may net $2,500, the payment
here aust be charged to 33,010. This will dnclude the tax payment
{and the tax on tax) but the total tax of $310 will be held by
tte Finance Section uneal ine for filing. If you could recover
the $2,500 held by no tax problea will be encountered
and Administrative pasa 3 will be avoised at or aed of March.

4. Your efforts to recover the £2,509) tron Gastey® wit be
appreciated. Please notify besdquerters of (Sua {SHAROVE's) decision.

It is left to you to decide the opportune time to-raice Jet matter
which, of course, could coiacids with furnishing ate with
results of debriefing AHMUG/1.

KENMETH H. PHILBROOK

STAIART

Distribution:
3 = COS, OTTA

= WIH/SA/ESEC
= WH/SA/CI
- RID Files
- NE/BC/C

be tet ed

hU/SasFOR |

