# 104-10193-10076

## Page 1

104-10193-10076

MATERIAL REVIEWED AT CIA HEADQUARTERS BY

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MENBERS

FILE TITLE/NUBER/VOLUME:

HARVEY WILLIAM K

: 0P. FILE

INCLUSIVE DATES:

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:

DELETIONS, IF ANY:

ROOM:

PERSONAL * INRELATES TIME PERIOD

MATERIAL

DATE

RECEIVED

15 AV62

DATE

RETURNED

REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME)

DAN HANDLIAY

SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

Hardway

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILS

---

## Page 2

MATERIAL REVIEWED AT CIA HBADQUARTERS BY

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MENBERS

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUTE:

HARNEY LILIAM K

OP FILE

INCLUSIVE DATES:

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:

DELETIONS, IF ANY:

• ROOM:

PERSONAL Y UNRELATES TIE PAREN

ATTERIAL

DATE

RECEIVED

DATE

RETURNED

REVIEVED BY (PRINT NANE)

DAN NARDWAY

SIGNATURE OF. REVIEWING OFFICIAL

Handway

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE

---

## Page 3

ta-inden

Cho Y018 71::13

ie Juea joe.

W. Harvey, C.I.A. Aide, Dead;

Linked to Anti Castro Plotting

William K. Harvey. reported.:

li the hend ofa spridl Cen-lHanry -wa

Ath wime otbs death, forl

editor

tral-Insellugençe Agrncy group-Bobbsiferll Fublishing Com-

set up la the 19n0's lo plan the panv.

perioval. of forign ladere'hyl

No was buried Saturday nt

means jincluding assasination. South

•Cometery•in Danville,

died' of:",a dear

aitäcl last'rust. west'ef ladianapolis.

He

INrdneiday in an Indianapolis is surviyed hy his suiie, Clara

Ihospital.

sir.

¡Grace, a daughter, Sally, and à

Marvey, who was

60 son, James D. Harvey

устя ліа.

was said in have

born in charge of the agency's

efforls against Prime Minister

Fndel Casem of Cuba. He was

among. 10 aRents whose iden-

Mltieg were disclosed

by

the

!Scnate Select Committce on li-

flelligence after an investigauod

in 1075 ol alleged assastiration

Yolots by the Cniled States.

William E. Colby, then Duec-

itor of Cuntral Intelligence, had

arqued that' disclosure of the

n.11ne5. 0l• agenls

would

put

ithein in jeopurdy of retalialiod

iby

"irratonal groups."

Mr. Hlarvey testified. hafore

the Senate

commiltes

that he

hnd heen told by superiors shat

the Castor assasination ploe hau

bcen aproved

at the

highest

levels of the government, a.sd

that he lind discussed the ef-

forts with his smmediate supur-

ior, Richard Helms,

who later

breame director of the agency.

Mr. Harvev moved to Indian-

apolis

in

1969 after

from the agency, where he hail

worked for 22 years. He workeu

for the F'ederal Bureau of Inves-

tigation from 1940 to 1947,

---

## Page 4

EXZi4

13 FEB

1968

Mi.

Willam King Harvey

23 West Irving Street

Chovy Chase, Maryland 200i5

Dear Billa

I am sorry that due to a busy schedule and my

absence for several days during the Christmas holi-

days I didn't have an opportunily to see you prior to

your retirement at the end of the year.

Red White has told me of his visit with you,

and I am particularly appreciative of your expres-

aion of continued loyalty to the Agency and your

offer to be óf analotance should an appropriate

occasion ariae.

I extend to you, personally and afficially, my

sincere approciation for the important work you

have done and my warment hopes that you will find

full enjoymont in the yoare ahead.

Sincerely.

Richard Helms

Director

OP/BSD/RB/ MJRoper:jac

Rewritten:ExDir:abo

Distribution:

0 - Adse

1 • ER

1 - C/EAB/OS

1 - D/ Pers

- OPF

I - RB

(Concurred in by C/EAB/OS on 8 Jan 68)

NOTE: Covert correspondence

---

## Page 5

dillion ties barray:

Chevy Chase, Mary lead 20615

Doar Lill:

As jou reach the cod of youractins career

of Covariend errrico, lvati do jola your titonis

and, colleagure in antine jou cortlaned ilechis.

and eulalaction in your setterari.

You havo duen urielleged do fudo ula chillerie

as bangordose seeponsibilities dating. goos doger tien

tenty--in lease 08 service to your esurisy.

ecurco of lasting pile and

ali:racion so you.

May i criend to you, corconilly ind circially.

my clacore acprcelation doe the loose it work yes

nave done ans dug burriest bogus that you cal fiod

Sull enjoynient la tus yours chanc.

canceralyo

Blrector

#NOTY:

Distribution:

O- Acúresses

1 - EDCI

1. 11

1 - C/LAD/CS

1o D/Pers

Corcar:

1-1t

1 - 1B Rescer

Originator:

Diicetos of Fersonti

.. 1::

C/2ialCo

OF/BSD/R/: Toger:ise (26. Decenter 1923)

Covert correspondence.

...

---

## Page 6

14-00000

SECRET

REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION

SERIAL NUMBIR

051164

NATURE OF MASORTEL ACTION

366.771

Retirerent. -Ch fetirement, ter

(voluntar?

N 10, 99

4.04708

EFFECTIVE DATE RIQUESTED

MONTA

DAF

12 1 31 1 67

NO CHARGEABLE

136-1186

10 IUCATION ON OPFICIAL STATIONA

@ ORGANILATIONAL'DESIGNATIONS

DDP/EUR

Development Complement

Wash', D. C.

II POSITION PIE

12, POSITION NUMBER,

Ops Officer

I A SCHEDURE SCHEDURE S SEE. ARE)

IS COSTPATERIAL SERIES

9997

•tO GRADE AND STEP

GS

16 REMARKS

012.01

18 1

sir. Harvey is not reconnended fur the Agency Reserve List.

DA 7 PREFARIO

25 Recester 1957.

3 CATGONY DI EMPOTAINT

Segular

•233

BJ. CASER SERVICE DESIGMATIOA

18 SALATY DE RATE

$ 27055

IDA SIGNATURE OF REQUESTING OFFICLAL

DARE SIGNED

18B

SIGNATURE OF CAREER SERVICE AFFROZING OFFICER

DAJE SIGNES

ACTION 120 EMPLOT

21

CODE

(O0t

16.

11e 811885

0A,

v8.

OFFICE CODING

SPECIAL

REFERENCE

20

7 on 836

imP8la

3-8307

SPACE BLOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

j23 INTEGREE

24 NDOTES. / 25

DATE OF BIRTH

DO GATE OF GRADE

4048

(00E

600€

CING

RETIEEMENT DATE

CobE

731

SEPARATION

DATA COCE

32 CONFECTION, CANCELLATION DATA

TIPE

DA.

EOD DATA

QGTE OF LEI

33 SECURHT

460 #0.

3A SEX

35. NET PIPERIE

coot

N3A SIRY

C34»

date:.

4049

I COS tEST

PAZe 1149

600e

39.

CODE

0--HAIVEE

FIGLA, MEBLIN INSURANCE

MANTA SAS CODE

8O SOCIAL SECURITY NO

co0d

2-- 10P1

PREVIOUS CIVILIAN GOVERHENT SERVICE

B- RO FEINOUS SETTKA

2- BALAS A SENTICE (LESS TARA D TEARS)

fabe

***'GERAL LAA DATA

ACRIA EXECUTIO COOL

NO. TAX EXEMPTIONS

STATE TAX DATA

coDE

NO LAX STATE 6O0E

8.10

POSITION CONTADY CERTIFIÇATIN

• OB

APPROVAL

1. 7-68

DATE

APPROVEL

2840

1967

1152

USE PREVIOUS EDITION

SECRET

ABC8SE0 IS ASSIS POR

(4)

ROCK DORATES Knite

w9:90n.00/564909

---

## Page 7

SECRET

nicer Rogustry

13 DE.

NiEMORANDUN FOR: Director of Central Intelligence

SUBJECT

: Requeat for Voluntary Retirement

Willar K. Harvey

This memorandum submite a recommendation for your approval;

this rocommendation la containad la paragraph t.

"'2.

Mr. William K. Harroy, GS-1s, Operstiong Officer, European

Diviolon, Clandestine Services, has applied for voluntary retirement under

the provisiono of Headquartere Regulation 20-501, to do elfective 30 Decon-

be: 1967:

d/

So.: Mr.. Harvey has been deolgnated a participant in tho CIA Retirement

and Dianbility Syatein and meeta the technical rocuirements for voluntary re-

tirement under the System. He Is 52 years old with over 26 years of Federal

Service. Ibla servire includes over 40 years with the Agoncy of which more

than 9 years were la quallying servico overseas. The CLA Retirement Board

bas rocommended that bis application for voluntary retirement be approved.

I endorse this recommendation.

4.

It to recommended that you approve the voluntary retirement of

dix. Hilllas K. Harvey under the provielona of Headquartera Regulation

20-501.

:i.!

"..:

turned depends.

Emmett D. Echola

Directo: oí Persoanel

The recommendation contained in paragrapa 4 la approved:

167 Riohard Feler

Director of Central Intelligence

15 DEC 1967

Date

SECRET

---

## Page 8

ta-iniden

Distribution:

O - Returo lo D/PoTO _C13 3 25 PM'67

- DDCI

B': ER UNdR0EDe COUT

l - DiPers

A - OPF

1 - RB Soft file (w/hold)

! = RB Render

jicndliss

i=...

.:

OP/FSD/RI./MJRoper:flh (7 Deiember 1967)

Retyped: OP/TSD/RDeFelice:jaa (11 December 1967)

E0-2?1

tt w"fll. 1:t"

et?:

r.?'"

rootte", "wi.

äe:: .wn

Aeee larq tree dle dg96t0dd dendfodeg tesse du

!e61. 111::1

tictind ?i?" "

eicomoud Reperee tfe tes detertt aoge deepetdedeei

l? 4 lrle adee dd eee GelWehHe:.

/nttts.

•.÷:÷96

=.'::""

•.tapo, ceiio te od rani'!.

Lmhndt dge GEEtEH Ni

itrt: ..

•.,."

-eae Gaeie? Gal De G GGo GD GERdD HBG"HThà

÷ ди: іс

?1c.-9;

qa cralll Qaeü lr0erold Se Ywy.

!e ri illumicäit?

т.i.

-desoe gas jues gecee drad berngie donee dee tac

1:0.51

DEC

16

р:: 1171°

Mibimdreer elwe ole GangGldd degidd

p÷ sta.

CW (WOО.1.1089

me sabilay :or

toneiss d?

ict?t

etlo daerd Geljt" MtiLedehn distaik

?.lGl0r9"9e t MGelEei M Bränühi inn

•;'^

-ilmauroaeddded 1rnred Ceedego6müs

29. HK: BT

..ICC:

15:

reearee tele ce eiegrdd 1l A Mtü MBleind.

: /cracnisi tusrotial isinstldi.-

•ã91° 11.6S

ranaubt

2ECKE1

tteiniei

51-9a00 ji it1

---

## Page 9

14-0000(

Quie epic

---

## Page 10

No++ 7997082

220ad ais.

25.

890.

Crivi 2. 95-8"

Jas cocketing.

10

12..

nater

1d. U5 natin"

1.30

• 1

natin

not in ri

---

## Page 11

NAME

HARVEY WILLIAM N

co:.

01

EARNINGS

NORMAL

OTHER

199200

SECRET

(WHEN MILLED TAY

STATEMENT of EARNINGS and DEDUCTIONS

EMPLOYEE NO

PAY PERIOD DATE

.061-164 ÷

04/09: 05/00

ROLL

01

DESCRIPTION

COST CENTER

1361188

ВтА

000

REG SAL

NOTE:

THIS FORM IS ISSUED ONLY WHEN AN

EMPLOYEE ENTERS ON DUTY OR THERE

IS ANY CHANGE IN THE PAY ACCOUNT

CD

41

53

54

57

6 1

75

DEDUCTIONS

NORMAL

35014

1102

1000

750

1374

12948.

OTHER

DESCRIFTION

FITAX 1

INS WEAPA

INS. FEGLI

INS UALIC

nAZA HOSP

2

AGY HET

ADDITIONAL COMPENSATION DATA

pp

LOT/HRS.HT/NRSIND/HRS.

RATE

O/T-HT AMT

M/D AMOUNT

REFUNO DUE FROM EMPLOYEE

CD

NORMAL

OTHER

REMARKS:

CD

NET PAY

NORMAL

99 147012

PAID AT MOS

147012

OTHER

FORM 8385

SECRET

---

## Page 12

SECRET

188 Are l allied, las

REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION

SARIAL ASLIMBEN

aid-, Middles

c1101

HARVEY. WILLIAM A

PURE DO PIRSONARI ACTION

CONIERSION, EROM

o. Pione

• ORLANCAIUNAL DISIONATIONS

ODP/EUR

Des Carf.

SOUTHERN REGION

LSTATION

DEEICE UF TUL-CHIEF- (UNASSIGNEDI

1A PESSITION MPRE

IS OCCUPATIONAL SERIES

0136.01

1136-05

REFECHINA DALE'REQUESTED

DAT

02

25

THAN

07

FINANCIAL ANALYSIS

NO CHANGEABL

7130-1200

1O, SOCATION OF OMFAIAL SYATION.

DATE PRIPANIO

21 Ebruary 1907

3 CATEGORY OF LAMOMENT

REGULAR

LEGAL AUTHORITY 1 6umplased do Captro of

Personailt

17, POSITION MUMBLE

Đ97).

16 CRADE AND: STEP

118=1

IJ CARRER SERVICE DESIGNANIOM

17 SALART OR RATE

3 252890

18. REMANNE

cc payroll

DATE SIGNLO

IUB' SIGNATURE OF CARLA SERVICE APPROVING OPTICER

DATE SIGNED

ACTION DO (UPIOY

CODE

4008

BYE EXPIRES

ca

/l/Personnel

DISTER

BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE

USE

THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

OF#KE (00145

28 S14110M

23 INTEGRIE

MUMERIC

MiPMANTIC

COD$

6008

24

MOQIES / 25

DATE OF DIATH

26

(ODI

11 cia

SPECIAL

REFERENCE

30

-1.222

RETIREMINI DATA

1-180

cOpe

'SAPARATION

DaTA 100E

0123116.

CORRICTION / CAMCELLATION DATA

ГУРЕ

NO.

DA

$ -- MOWE

GRADI

"DA.

DATE OF 1EI

OA.

39 SECURITY

HEO #O

EOD DATA

331 + 48

D HOME

e4088 108:RЮ7:

DA

8-1 81

8 - 10 Pl

PREVIOUS CIVILIAN GOVERAMENT SERVICE

code

O. NO PRITIOUS SARVIE

B- N0 BALAX IN SIEVICE

8- BRIAN NO SURVICE (115S PHAN S TEARS)

I BRIAN IN SERVICE (MORE THAN & TERES)

AS ROSITION CONTROL CERTIVICATION

37

Robe Atap out

1о

DA.

Ya.

CAR, RESY

PROY,; THUP

CAREER CATEGORY

cope

1O SOCIAL SECURITY NO

MRALIM INS. COOR

1 - 183

88 LEAV& CAT

CODE

PORA REFCUTED CODE

HOERAL TAX DATA

NO PAN IIPMATIONS

"OMA ERECUTED

STAY TAX DAYA

NO TAX STATE COOR

7 701

5-15-67

60.0P APPROVAL

Pes Bal

MATE AFFIOVED

1152

USE PREVIOUS EDITION

SECRET

CROUP

ARCLUDIO ONUM

---

## Page 13

SECRET

DATE PRIPARID

REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION

I SERIAL NUABER

27 Fchruary 1007

001104

I MATURE 0P ME

IBSONNH ACTION

LARVEY MILLIANS

REASSIGNMENT

@ FUNDS

- DE lu

EFFECTIVE DATE REQUESTIO

8r 124162

P-'FINAN'TALIANALYSIS

NO. CARROEABLE

7130-1186.

10 LOCATION DE OFFICIAL STATION

REGULAR

Triested!

DDP/EUR

eS/CE DEVELORMENT COMPLEMENT

11. POSITION TILE

12 POSITION NUMBER

NASON UGTON A DA CARE SEANCE DESAMATION

UPS OFFICER

A. CIASSIPICATION SCHEDULE (63, 1.A, 886.)

÷512

TiS OCCUPATIONAI SERES

9227

10. GRADE AND 3F2P

of.

0130.01

Ia. REmARks FrOm:

DEFYEUK/FF/

Subject departed the Station 2! March 1900.

17 SALARY OR RATE

+-28-8-83400

34ifu

s 25,520

Other.

security

Secarity

DATE SIGNED

TOS SUMATURE OR CARTER SERIE

i APPROVING ORACER

1P ACRON 5O EMPLOY DI

800f

MIE 1XP1813

44-!

SPECIAL

RIFERINCE

rsonnel

SPACE

BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE

OH18 (00186

•Ta? 5180%

OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

ALAMABIIIC

COOL

100€

T26. HDO18S

1008

DATE OF BIRIN

1./.

оліі6

RETIREMIMT DATA

CODE

SPIRATION

CATA CODE

32 CORRITION • CAMCELLALION DATA

Tres

DA.

18.

Ti-1K

13-8091

€OD DATA

38 YET. PRIFEBINCE

C008

0- nost

J6 SERY COMA DATE

A00.

8- 10 P1

PREVIOUS CIVILIAN GOVERMIRENT SERVICE

O- NO PRIDIOUS SEAVILE

1=A CLA 18 91R863

J~ BA/RE IN SITTICA (LESS THAN I PILES)

J-HOLAR IN SEVKE (OORE INAN 3 TEARS)

AS, FOSITION CONTROL CERTNICAIION

(OMP DATE

it BESt

Fire teet

CODE 10-WAIYLE

MEALTH INS. CODE

48 LEAVE CAT

CODE

FEDERAL TAN DATA

DORM FRECUTTO] CODE

NO. TAE FREMPIIONS

$- 111

2-10

PORA PRECUIIO

OP APPROVAL

5-15-61

Ra Brat

PCOM 1152

USE PREVIOUS EDITION

SECRET

GROUP

ANE PLAIM LATE

CATE SIGNED

27

CAME Of LEI

ra

34 SER

410 #2.

40 SOLIAL SHEETITE HO

SAl Taa Bald

|C00+

BATE APPROVED

(4)

---

## Page 14

14-00001

cases of Statlos, l

Diractor of Po: inm

I LONGS -

- ButlIliation of Dasheillan as a Participant In

Action: No Indicated

Rati: Book hispatch 5096 & 01ãü - 7596

lo. You have boon found to be qualifiod as a parilciuant in the liganiza-

lion Notiremen and Eliability jystem and lave been so designated elioctivo

21 Noveaber 1joi.

2. Alihough such denignallen undor present statutes lo viewad tavurably

by most porsons, the rogulation sovernia, thie retirement ayatem gives the

Individual the right to appeal ouch a datermination id he doema the design.

tion adverse to hia best interesto. In ordor thai this tochnical requirement

may be natiolied, you aro hereby nollied of your airbi lo appoal, An appoal

with reasons therelute must be receivod in Headquartero withis 60 daya of

the dato of this dispatch or acceptance of desigration will be assumod. iny

questiona that you may have in conneciion with your designation lat cannot

bo answerod by pelopring lo 100i Dioparch 5496 should be forwarded io dead-

Jo i a belleve that the benetite os the rganization letirement system

aro superior to the benarito of the Civil service kettremen: "ystem. tow

evor, there aro a low situations in waich an employee at the time di rotire

ment may have so many yeara di sorvice falmos: 37) that ho would receive a

bisher annuity andor the Civil jervice syston, bocause of this, the pulicy

decision has beon mado that a sarticipan in the l stantaation system who.

could roceive a higher annuity under the civil sorvico ayatom may, not later

than one year prior to bia rotiroment, apply to be removed from cur system

and transferred to the Civil service system, Thus, you obould not anticipato

thia contingoncy an a faclor in deciding wether you regard your designadion

as a participant adverte to your boat laterests.

2 1 DEC 1955

25 DEC 1965

AIRB - 7774

---

## Page 15

SECRET

E to Fulled le)

REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION

& SERLAL ARIARE

061104

HARVEY, WILLIAN.

•3 NATURE DE PERSONNEL-ACTICN

DESIGENTION IS FIGTICIPAT I IS C

RETIRE EAT AND DISABILITY SYSTEM

vröv

viad

A FUNDS

CE TO v

DANANVATIONAI DISHGALATUNER

# - EFFECTIVE DATE REQUESTIO

ĐÁT

• VEAR

11: 21 | 05.

COST CENTER NO CHARGE.

6136-226T

10 LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION

DATE PEPARTO

16 forazie: 1965

CAPPOUTY OF ENRONENT

frontly

Pu SS -035 303=- 203•

SPITION

OFFICE OF TIC CHIE

11: POSITION. PETLE

12 POSITION NUMBER

1Y CAREER SEI

FIRST SECRETIRY

CHIEF OF SLITION

0212

D

IA. CLASSIFICATION SCHEDUIE (GIS. R.B. eA:J

15. OCCUPATIONAA SIRES

1S. GRADE AND STEP

17 SALART OR RATE

FSR

01

?

24,254

Gs

0136.35

18

$ 22.382

REMARKS

ELPLOYE WILE, IS NOTIFIED BY DISPATCE TCH ILS DIROCTOR OF PERSONEL OF SEES

DESIGIATION AID OF HIS RIGHT OF LEPER DO TIE DIRECIOS OF CEMEAL INCLINEZE.

I co to OP/ESD/RB

L, CC

to ces

1 co. to Finarco throych CCs

IRA SIGNATURE OF REQUESTING OFFICIAL

DATE SIGNED

1 8 N03 :905

188 SIGNATURE DE CAREER SERVICE APPROVING OFFICER

¡ DATE SANNED

19. 'ACTION |20 EMPLOY

CODE

1006

28

BIE EXPIRES

NO.

Wish,

78.

O!FICE (O0:NG

NUMIRIC

APHABETIC

SPECIAL

REFERENCE

30

SPACE BELOW

FOR EXCLISTE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

21

STATION

32 NTIRE:

(OD$

COME

74

HOGTES 12S

CATE OF BIRTH

BA TAN Or GRADE

CODE

B6533

MO

та.

RETIREMENT DATA

| 31

Eat CH

DaTa (20€

L13| 26

32 CORRECTIDN CARCELLATICN BATA

05 / 17/59

CO0E,.

EOD

DATA

is

=a.

=I

: 38

SCOTTY

52

34 SEX

15. DET PREFEMENCE

COOF

9-6168

1-107

COM?. DATE

Da.

37. LONG COMP. DATE

.110

Da

/ 38

Cas TEN

9209 THAR

"NIECE CATEGORY

I CODE

REGU MENTO INSURANTE

HEALTH INES. COOR

•1E S20÷R STURITY #0

1-3 87.

I _ 10 $7

4%.

CODE

PREVIOUS GOVIRRMENI SERVICE DAYA

A-HO PREVIOUS SERVICE

1-HO BELAR IN SEVICE

O_ THAT IN STING SINE THAN A BEAN

SO BREAR IN SERVICE (MORI THIN 3 VERRS)

25. POSITION CONTROL CERTIPCATION

1446

19. RAINLA

I-. TES

42 LEAVE CAT

CODE

43

FEDERAL TRI CATA

POEM FARCITED COOR

THO. TAN EIFMPTIONS

1-455

2.10

¡PORA PRECUPED

staTE "er fA"e

15E FOR STATE COOR

dÓ OF APPROVAL

BATE APPROVED

waves.

6-69 1152

USE PREVIOUS EDITION

SECRET

SH1RLO0

---

## Page 16

14-00000

SECRET

Filled in)

REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION

DATE PRIPARLO

28 MARCH 1963

?..

061164

HARVEY, WILLIAN &.

NATURE OF PERSONNEL

REASSIGNMENT

8.

FLINDS

у то х;

y-TO:co

CC/ C* 10 cr

OAGANSIATIONAL

DESIGNATIONS

DDP WE

STATION

THE CHIEF

A-ÉFFECTIVE DATE REQUESTED

DAY

00 0+

6 • 1

30/63

COST CENTER'NO"' CHANCE-

ABLE

3136-6300-1014

10.

LOCATION, OF OFFICIAL

STATION

D' CATEGORY OF EMPLOYMENT

REGULAR

LEGAL

'AUTHORITY (Complored: By

Offic

of personnel)

POSITION NUMBER

CAREER

SERVICE DESIGNATION

CHIEF OF STATION

8. CLASSIFICATION SEMEDULE (GS, RD, 'OPE.)

1S. OCCUPATIONAL SERIES

18.

0262

GRADE AND STEE

D

87.

SALARY OR RATE

GS

10.

REMARKS

FROM:

DDP

ТАБЕ

0136•01

18

20,000

En "/OFFICE OF THE CHIEF/0662.

trang!

APPOINTMENT MEMO TO DCI SENT ON 27 MARCH 1963.

259 SENT TO MEDICS ON

15 MARCH 1963.

1412.1

REQUEST ALL NECESSARY CLEARANCES BE GRANTED

PRIOR TO 1 JUNE 1963.

COPIES SENT TO FINANCE AND SECURITY.

DATE SIGNED

OSIDEN

062763

SIGNATURE OF CAREER SERVICE APPROVING,

DATE SIGNED

19. ACTINA FLEMICS.

CODE

37

10

2R. MTE ERD GIC

MO.

pa.

SPACE NFLUN

HUN EXCLUSIVE USE

72.37A7129

73. 0125!

cros

L'E

SPECIAL

54423

: Ng1.269547 081%0

•cocr

OFFICER

re tierse

FAHE UFFICE OF PERSUNNE

12%, a90105 ppa 5005 dE71094;

HI BIE

DA.

32.0000ECT 08/30609:299100 CARA

чо.

EOD DAT.

47.

27. 3AT6 06 181

da.

33 SECURITA

9E0.

36, SER

7-63:4

90.3467

35, NEY.

DREFEDINSE

GOOs

- 408!

Kh0499

PEGGITEMP

PREDICUS SESERBALNT SERVICE CATA

?iND, GATE

ra.

Honest sar.

38.

CAREEN CATEGORY

3*.

:95f

HER" (+94194141498836

...SCI'AL SEERITY NO.

*=CEONL

TAE CATA

SERvICE

ADIAN IN SERVICE

(irss amos 3 YRS)

"BUGGE IN JERUICE

(RACRE

3418 3 Y25)

AL. POSITION CONTROL CERTIFICATION

2 crick102

FORM 1 1 52

PEE MOUS ROASTO

8. 63

no, pan, tararipos

CIDE

SO-TANISIATE COM

2 = 40

2 - 4a

46. 0.P. APFROVAL

DATE APPROVED

Z. at Band fosters

7865

SECRET.

448

ExCL

GROUP. 1

SA CLASSELAiN A

---

## Page 17

SECRET

CO/P. 3.2018

112 JUN 459

18140s0. 81ml

¿rerutire Registiy

З уУУ

MEMORANDUM FOR: Deputy Director of Central Intelligence

VIA

SUS ACT

Deputy Director (Plans)

- Appointment of Mr.

Willlam K.

Harvey

• Chief of Station,

1.

This

Is to make a matter of written record the

appointment of Hr.

Harvoy as Chief of Station,

effective on or about 30 June 1963. Mr. Harvey will replace

Mr. Francis I. G. Coleman, who is scheduled to attend the

nest session

of the National War College. Verbal approval

was given by you and by the Director.

• biographic data sheet, including intormation

régarding his Agency experience and training,, is attached.

Chief

Western Europe Division

Attachment

Biographic Profile (Part I)

CONCUR:

?: JOr: 1963

(Date)

APPISONED:

20 .

Datose 63

17 9254.93

SECRET

---

## Page 18

ta-tandon

CONFICENTHIL

22 May 1963

Mr. William K. Harves Litt

Dear Bill,

I wiah to express my real appreciation for the time you

have devoted to Agent Panel affairs. Your operational

experiénce and personal knowledge of many of the individual

staff agents and career agents have provided a sound basis

for your contributions to Panel decision's concerning their

promotions and reassignments. I look forward to the time.

after your overseas assignment, when we may have the

pleasure of your service in a similar capacity.

Sincerely.

w.

M. land facing

COrS

Chairman, CS Agent Panel

Bill, may I add in

on hand and words

Mons

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 19

14-00000

SECRET.

(Then Filled in')

A C

REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION

21 August 1962

JAL

861161

RARYST, WILLIAM K.

Reassiginent

IPS ECTIVE DATE DISESTED

*62

CATEGORY 'OP EAPLOTHENT

Regular

AUTMORITY

(Completed By

Offico of Fersonnal

FUNDS

C5. 70 v

CE TO CE

SONATION$

3132 - 1000 - 1000

LOCATION OF GERICIAL STATION.

Task Forca W

Office

of the Chief

Washingtes, D.G.

os afficer - CH

102! POSITION NUMBER

CAREER #ERVICE DESIGIATION

CLAS

IÇATION SOMTOURE (GS, LA, ofc.)

19. OCCUPATIONAL SERIES

B4-662

GRADE

ANO STEP

TS

0136.01

18

D

1.7.

SALARY OR RATE

18500

REMARKS

PhA Louche-daratton of Task F0r0oW

fun Fistaff tray y

Louis Armstrong

SPICE BELON

OFFICE 5001B:

19, 4сn0e ра 1923

CODE

CODE

311

28.MIE ESPINES

по.

REFERLACE

DATE SIGNEO

7/2%

FOR EXCLUSIV

USE

22.911'04

23, 1BTLF!!

15013

crot

• AGMENT CATA

31

SEPARI

COOr

188.

SIGNAPURE DF CAREEA SERVICE APPARVING|DATE SIGNED

sier ovenl

18/s/ 2

OF THE OFFICE

VE PERSUNNEL

FRE MORESTOS CARE DECERE DES. JATE CE JADE

27, 08°8 CELE

35, vi.

"Tat".

part

409.

DATE

= 908t

16 p.

PREVIOUS CEASEVENT SERVICE DATO

A: LEAVE CAT.

CODE

CODE

Las A =0

: HAVE 1408s Paul 999

*999

A3. POSITION CONTROS CERTIFICATION

E5/2s/62

T5% 13

Sane 1152.

тя.

09.311

1

1,p1

2e3.

ca.

EOD DATA

38. CARIER CAPECI9Y

CAR/DESY

CaDE

cast

LE AL'M 195 COOF

43.

37A4:

2:99

@ 40

06. 0.8. APPROVAL

33.SºE2R11?

#10. 70.

No. 50318, St:, 8199 80.

1C00e

11 are.

Did Gone pot lea

19 angs t

SECRET

---

## Page 20

Pie - 1959

action

---

## Page 21

1d-0d0

SECRET

Pa Press

108100 802:

BIOGRAPHIC PRCTILE (PANT ISOD: 15. JUN 1941

TWORTITE COUP TATE

Jis son 12120

- 2.5

UATIASA

AAR 1 1 AL

Remarried.

PIRINSINS)

clever

MiNARNSHE

2

his start

03 68?

OTHEN SPATUS

ALIENSE

•92A725

.

1509 1967

ARURASE

OR 1 ORAN.

TO PROTESSIONAL TEST DAI

• LARACUALL

• 3.

PATROPIER

1931-33

Danville Gozotta, Indiano - Repurior & Printor

1936-35. Trutana UnTv, TToonington - Publielty Hrlter (athlotles) fplY

1957 - 40

solf-onployod. daysvillo

Kontucky - Attornoy-at-Law

1940-47

Dopt of dustlco, rur, oc/ure/rittsturgli, Pa - spaclai

Agont: &

Supurvisor/

ID. NON-CiA TOUCATiON

1933-37

Indiana Unir, Bloomington - LLB Guits Distinctions Law, Psych.

Philos, Journallom

17.

FOREIGN

LANGUAGE

Gurman - R,111gh; li,P, 5, U, Intor; Intorpret - Oct 1961

ROCHET

SPORSORED IRAINING

1903 Italian

Зор

T947

May:

1948

Duc

1948

Mar

1949

Uct

1949

Fob

1951

Dec

3951

Dcc

1052

Nov

1953

Dec

195.9

Jan

1956

May

1959

POSITION

_9 OCCUCALIOIAL COUL

Oct

Jun

Jun

"un

Feb

Ucc

1959

1962-

1903

1965

1907

1967

Chict Stf-E

0p5

0f

Агой

ops

Chief

0f

Sep

1959

Ops

0f

0136.01

0136

. 0 1

[3

aso

0130

. 01

return

to

Hq

0830.01

0136.01

chier

Sta

0130

. 01

0130.05

Ops

0130.01

Rotirament (voluntary

20, DATE REVIESCO

RS. PROFILE REVITATO BY

22 Son 19711

obs

8 • 57

1200 (PART 1) MAS PARANOUS

G00/F3S/Ch

050/60PS/FB5/UCt

foreigner

D50/COPS/DOPC/DCh,forci

0G0/COPS/DCh

Ops

for

dinar

050/Ch Stf-ClACh, Stf-D

Stall E

0S0/Ch

Plans

Staff

DUP/EE/Ger 11s/803/COB

719

GS15

16

1G

16

16

.,6

17

18

DI

Di

DOP/Eg/GerSta/403/Cog

18

DDP/Ch, FI/D

1&

D

DOF/Ch

18

DOP/HEAL

18

D

Task to

rC& W

181

()

DOP/EUR/Der Comp

CLAPDS)

8. 10 RES

WIRETIED

SECRET

D!

PROFILE

Bonn

Berlin

==

Hq

Hq

---

## Page 22

SECRET

SECTION A

to 141008

Harvey

B: OMFICIAL POSITION TITLE

Chicf of Station

B. CHECK IMI TYPE OF APPÓINTMENT

LEGAVE

FITNESS REPORT

EMPLOTEE SERIAL NUMDER

06116 i

Tidio, GENERAL

5. 30*

D.OBЛОE

9. 30.

_William

: K.

13 Sene 1916

CS -18

T OFFIDIVOR OF ASSIONMENT O. CURTENT STATION

DDE/ WW/I

IO: CHECK (8).

TYPE OF HEPOR:

TEMBONANY

ICiAL (SpeclY):

DATE REPORT DUE IN O.".

¡B. REPORTINO PERIOG (FANS TO)

L Aprtl 1964 - 31 March 1965

SECTION. B

W' - Inok

PERFORMANCE EVALUATION

Partormance rangos from wholly Inndoquole to lightiy

less then solistoctory. A earing ln this coregory requires

posielvo remedial actlón. The noture ol the action could congo from counseling, 1o further troining, lo placing or

probaron, to erassignmons or to soparadion..

Describe action takon or proposed in Soétion C

A - Adeans

Porformanco moor a all requirements. 1a lo ontirely satisfociory ond la chorociorized nellher by deflelency nor

excellenco.

p - Proficient

$ • Strong

Q - Quarandion

Porformanco la moro then sotisfaciory. Dostrod rosules ore bolne produced in a peolicions mannor:.

Performonica ls chorocteriod by enceppional proficloncy:

Performanco la so incopilonal In voloton so engulromento of the work and too comparison do the perlormanco of

othors dong simllor work as to morrons speclal rocognition.

SPECIFIC DUTIES

List up to sis of the mose importon spocille durlos perlorned during the rating perlodi Insára caring lester which boss descelbos sho

manner, In which employoe performs EACH spocific duty,

Considor ONLY affectivanoss In performance ol that duty.

All employees

wish nupervisory rasponsibilitias MUST bo rolod on thel abltity to suporblso (indicalo numbos of amplopeds auparulaad.

SPECIPIC DUTY NO. T

Chief of Station,

HA TINA

LETTER

0;

SPECIFIC DUTY NO.

A TINO

landles Station reintionnhip with Ambassador and Embassy and

...tae Base In

SPECIPIE DUTY NO,3

„"1"

3

HATINO

LETTER

Supervises CA. Progrom.

SPECIPIC DUTY NO. A

ATTE

Engaged in reorioctation of Station FI Progran.

#PECIFIC DUTY NO,"

RATINO

LETTER

it y

SPECIPIC DUTY ND. ®

OVERALL PERFORMANCE IN CURRENT POSITION

RA PINO

LETTER

aloco the lorior do phe reting bos corrasponding to the soromont which mose accurately rollacto hia level ol parlormence.

15 JUN 1965-

FORM 45 COSOLETE PARVIOUS ROITION.

SECRET

---

## Page 23

14-00000

SECRET

SECTION C/

NARRATIVE COMMENTS

andicit alone sather be damong r olden police no ta recommendation one lots Common

armance.: Stato suggestion i made los improssmen ol more parlorrione».

on foreign language, compoterco, il renured for surient position,

Amplily@roxpleinrorina@giren.in Sacdlan'@ro-peor.dnbose

bess foi determinto future personnel action.

applicable.

Mooner ol portremance ol monogerial or "ceritory cuties must bo describede

Mr. Harvey has conutnund to miner

the Areneyes activities in iren the smi

which clarictriad the dcocription of his appronch to the

Station Chior role. In his pust Mitness leport.

In his éfforts to reorient the

Station's FI progran townrd yvict Ontelfite

targets Mr. lnrvey hna-devoted considemble cnerry to acguiring the basic intomation

needed for this took, This hia bech will reported nod the responsibllities for cirry.

Ing out this shift In

opiratlonal appraich have bech preciscly delegated.

eafly to assess

the results operationily but the mortcatation hag been will

Ized. As an carly indication of the triad tals 1u tiking, several succesaful ichnical

operations have been established which.nre well on target

To accomplish the abjectiven of tin CA responsiblifties of the

Mr. Harvey has ncquired the most competent officors with this bighly apoclollid skill

• and has staunchly supported their efforts to prosecute this program which remains cx-

tensive.. He bas considerably improver the Station relotionship with Enbasay officers,

Including the Ambausador, by devoting greater offort to this necessory phase of the

•Station Chief's role and the Ambroandor,

suing, a recent trip to Washington, made

special mention of the degree of.contldenée he hnd in the Station's reporting, and in

the extent to which it 'ho kopt him properly informed.

During the period under rivlew. Mr. Harvey neguired'a Deputy Station Chiel - for

whose arrival be bad walted more than 6 months.

I: has delegated general manngement

of the Station's activities to this orfloor, who has applied himself dillrently to

this task and the results have been promising.

Mr. Harvey has been receptive to hcad-

quartera guidance, 1s extrement ome und taorough in replyide to ala correspondence.

SECTION D

CERTIFICATION AND COMMENTS

¡ CERTIFY THAT I HAVE SEEN SECTIONS A, B, AND C OF THIS REPORT

DAT&

BIONATURE OF EMPLOYEE

Linploxie at Eicla Station

2.

MONTHS EMPLOYEE

HAS BEEN

TIP THIS RELOAT HAS NOT DEEN SHOWN TO ENPLOYEE, OUT ENPLANATION

UNDER

MY BUHEN

24

DATE

TYPED OR

0 Fla

2 June 1965

COMMENTS OF REVIETNO OFFICIAL

OFFICIAL TITLE OF JUPERVISOR

C/WE

BY REVIEWING OFFICIAL

DATE.

3 tune 6r

OFFICIAL TITLE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

ADDP

Thomas H. Koramessines

SECRET

---

## Page 24

SECRET

William K. Harvey

Fitness, Report for Period 1 April 1964 - 31 March 1965

Section C (cont'a)

Some administrative details, such as the reports on the performance of.

officers whose eynluation he was reluctant. to make, Mr. Harvey hn's bad

a tendency to postpone despite repeated efforts to provoke him into

timely response.

I hnve rated Mr. Harvey's overall performance outstanding in

superior supervisory ability, his unusual skill in

views and his determinatic: to accomplish his basic

objectives regartless of the obstacles which he encounters.

station Ia complex, ia engaged in ane bighly aenutive operation ascr

must be guided with a otrong hand and by an officer.with a degree.of

professionalism which Mr. Horvey 1o vell able to supply as a résult of

his extensive operational experience.

SECRET

---

## Page 25

SECRET

FITNESS REPORT

EMPLOYEE SENIAL NUMBER

062161

SECTIONA

I. DABAE

(Lant)

HARVEY:.

(Firat)

William.

B: OFFICIAL POSITION TITLE

Chicf or Station

CATKEN

CAREER-PROVISIONAL (Sen Indirectiono - Soction, C)

SPECIAL (Spocily):.

19. DATE REPORT DUE IN O.S.

_GENERAL

(Maldo)

8. DATE OF BIRTH

D. SEN-

K.

13 Sept

1016

# ORADE.

$. 30

M

GS-18

D

7. OFF/DIETAN OF ASSIONMENT

#. CURRENT STATION

DDP/wE/1

10. CHECK'IN) TYPE OF REPORT

ACASSIONNENT DUDINVISOR

RIASMIGNMENT EMPLOYEE

SPECIAL (Smelly):

12. REFORTINO PERIOD (POT PU)

1 Aprll 1965 - 27 September 1965

SECTION B

We Mast:

PERFORMANCE EVALUATION:

posterine nemot eton. The raid o the orion could rena from courseling,

A rating in this corogery réquiros

positive comedial action.

to further trointria, lo placing on

probotion, to reasstgamong

or lo sopioratiar.

Doscribo action solen or proposad in Socilon C.

A • Adosvals

Performanco meeta all roquiremanta, li ls entiraly satialacpory and lo characterined nolthor by dallelancy nos

oxcallance.

P - Proliciont

Porformonce la more thar, sor sfociory. Desteod rosules are boing produced in a proiteleno monnor.

§ • Strong

Porformanço la chornctorized by exicoptional proficlency..

O - Quislandins: Porformance la so excaptional in relation to regulrement of the work and lu comparison to sha performance of

othors doing similar work as to mariant apecial recognition.

SPECIFIC DUTIES

Lidi up. to sis ol the most important specifie dulles porformod during the raring perlod. Insert saling lonor mhich bear do scribes sho

monner in which emplayoo portorms EACH spocile duty.

Consider ONLY ollocilvonoss in porformanco of that duty.

All employees

mIth superulsory responsibilitos MUST bo ratod on their ability lo suporulso (indicato numbor of omployeds supertand.

SPECIFIC DUTY NO.

RATING

LETTER

Chief of Station,

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 'I

Handles Station relationship with Ambassador and Embassy and the

Base 1n

PAYTER

S

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 3

RATINO

Supervises CA Program.

0

SPECIPIC DUTY NO. A

Cartoo

Engaged in reorientation of Station FI Program.

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. !

RATIN

ETTES

SPECIFIC DUTY NO, 6

OVERALL PERFORMANCE IN CURRENT POSITION

lomanco of spocifie

parloules limitaNons or agioned. Bosed or

your knomlodge ol employoo'a overall' performance during the polino perlod,

placo the letter In firo roping bas corresponding to the stetoment which most iccurataly rollects lis lovel of performence.

2 8 0CT 19650

FoR 45

OBSOLITE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.

SECRET

A TIM

ETTE

0

---

## Page 26

ta-inden

SECTION C

SECRET

filler fot

NARRATIVE-COMMENTS

iFice of procchet

pheie relationship lo

Stato suggestions modo fi improvamont ol inora portormanico:

Comment.

on lorolgo donguage ammetereo, d'roquirad for curreno po sirion.

Amplily or ouploin potings gire sá SocibAli smorido lo se

Donia lo desaminang la noo personal petion, Minnas ol pertormonco ol manogerlol or aupervindy durlos muse ba do scribed, 1

spellcable®

• My ratino al the performace uf this officer remains the sube ás the

descriptis uf his performance which 1s' contained in hia fitnese report

for perio eccias 31 March 1965.

SECTION D

CERTIFICATION AND COMMENTS

BY EMPLOYEE

T CERTIFY THAT I NAVE SEEN SECTIONS d. Be

AND C OF THIS REPORT

DATE

SIONATURE oF EsPLOVEE

Vernist

BY SUPERVISOR

MONTHS

TF THIS REPORT HAS NOT BE EN SNOWN TO IMPLOYEE, GIVE EXPLANATION

30

Mr. Harvey is currently at his overscas post.

DATE

OFFICIAL TITLE OF SUPERVISOR

27 Septerie: 1965

Chici, WE Division

BY REVIEWING OFFICIAL

COMUNTS OF REVIENI OFFICIAL

I concar in the evaluations given Mr. Harvey on duties No. 2, 3 and #.

I believe dery ito. ?. could have been rated "outstanding" rather than "strong,"

with jastification. I also think, however, that duty No. I, involving the everall

administraton and management of the Station and ite personel, should more

appropriately be rated "proficient," or perhaps "strong."

GATE

21 October 1965

OFFICIAL TITLE OF REVIEWINO OFFICIAL

ADDP

Thomas S. Karamessines

SECRET

---

## Page 27

1d-0d0d

hot dets?

Colored photograph removed this

date and forwarded with Blographic

Frontle to Mr. McCone via !u.

] wi/Fere.

Mr •

clorred with Mr. rene

stevens,

Chlof, Tich Brarich, POD/CP, the

removal

of ploture.

1 oP/FoD/CAB

5E-2505 HQS

Ext. 7771

Sends esSense 1570) 20

---

## Page 28

1d-0n0d

SECRET

When folking kos!

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

SARIAL'NUMALI

A0.ODIE

N0110H

"THEY WILLIAN"

A POPE TVE DATE

& CAPINTO DE EUROYMENT

RETIREMENT VOLUNTARY UNDER THE ENA

ALTRINI

AND ORABILITY SYSTEM

FUNDS

VrOY

CE 10 V

CE TO CR

121.50152

* ORGANIIATRINAL DES LATE'INS

8135/11600600/

1D INCATAMECE DAPHIAL STATION

REUULAR.

# CSC DE OINIE LEGAL AUTHORITE

Fib. £3-043

SET. 233

DOP/EUN

•DEVELCEMENT COMPLEMENT

HI. POSITION TITLE

CFS OFFICER

IS DECUPATCONE SERIES

CS

2138.01

I2 POSITION NUTRIE

9997

DO GRADE AND STED

IS

TI MRVICE DISICGNATIONI

D

IF SALACY OF RATE

27055

CHE,CE CODING

SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

78 19,1.9901

25 MATE OF BIRTH

•I DATE OF GRADE

40206

A me 199

45

Z8 NTE EXPIRES

18

MICHENCE

TETIPEMENT DATA

coce

SIGARATIOA

Cait COUt

32 Cueraba

4009

IS VET PREFERENCE

TE WAS FOMP DATE

TO LONG CONNA DATE O CAREER CATIODA

cone

600l

39

cove

CODE

PREVIOUS CINNA DO SEA WENT SERVICE

O NET P9182S 199MY

No so Ad d 1441.

rewo

FEDERAL TAN DATA

I BECKIED

EOD DAT

DEGE' : MEALIN IASURANZE

3 +4-29

1.494

REEN 118EN1O

SiGNATURE OR OIDER AUTHEN CATION

. *=

POSTED

O7 DATE OF TEN

100

CURITY

REQ NO

10 SOCIAL SECURITY NO

STATE TAN DATA

:::

FORA

S-da

1150

at 100s

lisa Previous

•SECRET

PlW

Enraded trom outomera

Whon Filed on;

---

## Page 29

PRAY

PURSUENT TO NUTS LEG RPALEF

MITH SALARY SCHEDULES OF PL 90-2'0

DET

AS OSTITEN IN THE

AS AMENDED, AVE A DCI DIRECTIVE CATED B OCTOVER 19620

CIA ACT OF

. 1949,

EFFECTIVE DATE ÖF PAY ADJUSTMENTA SECTOBER

1967

NAME

HARVEY WILLIANN

SERIAL ORGA. FUNDS GR-STEP

061154

.,CF

'GS 18

OLD

SALARY

$25, 890

SALARY

$27 • 055

---

## Page 30

•SECRET

(When Faird ta'

/ 16 MA3 67

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

2 NamE (1A57-7185710100183

061164

HARVEY WILLIAM K

BATBRE DE PERSONHEL ACTION

CONVERSION FRON

PONDS

STATUS

• 10 88

€$ 10

B. CREAmIZATIONAL DESIGNATIONS

EFFECTIBE BATE

3 CA1I6O8T 01. EMPLOYAENT

Tal,

102 | 25.167

REGULAR

?.1

inangal Aaclyis Ho.

Chargestio IN 156 OR OTHER LEGAL ANYMORITY

7136 8186 000

10 COCAITIN DE OFFICEAR STATION

50 USE 403 J

DOF/EUR

DEVELOPMENT COMPLEMENT

II. POSITION TITLE

OPS OFFICER

TE CERSSIFICATION SCMEDULE (6S, 1B, ol.)

1S. OSCUPATIONAL SERIES

GS

10136.01

18. REMARXS

OTHER

WASH. , D.C.

WASH,,

D.C.

12. POSITION NUMBER.

9997

16 GRADE AND STEP

118 1

1D SERVICE DESIGHATION

D

17. SALARY OR RATE

25890

19 ACTION: 29

Empier. | 71.

Corte

OFFICE COB:S,

56.

18

ID. 417 EMPIRE

44997

28 SPECIA8

REFERENCE

SPACE RELOW FOR

EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNUL

87. 11Af10#

INTEGREE

86. 166952: 25 DABE OF DIATH

¡ 76. DATE OF GRADE

600E

CODE

EV8

175013

• RETIREMEMS DATA

i 11

SEPARALION

09.

13116

38 CCRRECTINN LASCELLATION DATA

DATA CODE

EOD DATA

1S PES. PREFEREMCE

5234

JO. SEND COMP. DATE

4о

37 1086

COMP

DATE

та.

38 CAREER CATEGORY

16.0

H850

SCRE

PEGIS / HEALTH INSURANCE

WAIVER

HEALTH INS CODE

FEDERAL TRI DATA

28. DATE OF 1E1

48.

SECURITY

138 SEX

REO RO

10 SOCIAL SECURITY NO

COCE

PREVICUS COPILIAN COY-RAMES? SEAVRE

• NO PAEVIOUS SEATIN

•HO BAERK IN SERNICE

3. DATAR IM BRANCE DISS PADA A ANY!

3 - B0EA= 19 SEANICE I0R'n1 1uS

TER TEAVE CAT; 41

DUMURTECUTIO

STATE TAX DATA

1008

SIGNATURE OR THEM AUTHETICATION

POSTED! i

FCAU

5-éd

1130

Use Previous

Exticion

SECRET EL

GHOUPT

declassilisation

When Talked f

---

## Page 31

-16 MAR 62

B. SEMIAL HUMMIN

J 'MANE (LA:T $1851 MI001E)

061164

HARILY WILLIÄM K

8. MATURE OF PEASONMES ACTICA

REASSIGNMENT

FUNDS

%. ORGAMIIATIONAL DESIGNATION%

SECRET

(Whon' Fulod In)

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

to' c

U 10 08

4 EAGECRIVE BATE

но.

DA.

112 | 24|67

T'S CAT6ORY OF CMPLOYWLNT

REGULAR

• (bergeable

TE. ISE OR OINER BEGAL AUTHORITI

7136 .1186 0000/ 50 USC 403 J

10. LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION

DOP/EUR

DEVELOPNENT COMPLEMENT

18, POSITION. TITLE

OPS OFFICER

14. CLASSIFICATION SCMEDULE (68, 18, 8le)

15. OCEUPATIONAL SERIES

0136.01

18. REMARKS

OTHER

WASH.,

12 POSITION NUMBER

D.с.

19997

16. GRADE AND SIAP

118

13, SERVICE DESIEXATION

17 SALARI 38 BATE

25890

19: ACTION 20. Employ

CODE

21.

OFFICE CODING

37

18

28. MTE EXPIRES

44237 | EUR

750313

;79.1921142

DESERENCE

1 19.

RETIREMERT DATA

COUR

SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USI: OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEI

22 STATICA; 23. INTEGREE

T24 Hdgles 1S DATE OF BIRTH

736 DATE GE GRADE

CODE

CODE

Code

DA

108

: 13116

:J1 SEPAZATICN

DATA CODE

32. CORRECTION; CAMCELLATION DATA

Irre

на,

ROD DATA

27 DATE OF LES

YA.

33 SECURITY

#EQ МО.

14, SEX

FICA

35. VET. PREFERENCE

CODE

34 SENO LESP DATE

117. LONG COMP. DATE , J9 CAREER CATISORY

TODE

CODE

PEGLO / HEALTH INSURANCE

". WAIVER

NIALINIAS CGOE

10• SOCIAL SECURITY NO.

CODE

PREVIOUS CIVILIAN GRLERESENT SEBYKE

0.90 P9981048 987833X

RESI

I LEAVE CAT RUDER

CODE

ICANERICUTED, CODE

FEDERAL TAE DATA

NO TaSélEMPTIONS

POMM-ERACUTED

STAlE TAX DATA

CODE

NO TAX RIALECODE

EXEMP

BALAX 19 SADOVA CASS 14A0 S VAS,

8.45,

SIGNAIURE CA OTER AUT-JENTICATION

POSTaD

FORM

5.68

1150

5Jso Previous

Edition

SECRET

perman tan gottat

tenge 300

tear.solita: es

C.:

---

## Page 32

OPAY ANJUSTMENT IN

ACCORDANCE WITH

PUNQUAIT

TO AUTHORITY

OF

P'CI

SALAKY

SCHEDULES rEfL

89-504

AS

PROVICED ITE

CIA ACT OF

1949,

AS AMENDEDO AND A-DOI DIRECTIVE VATFO & OÇTOGEE 1902."

• EFFECTIVE DATE OF DAY ADJUSTMEVT: 3 JULY 1506

VANE

HARVEY WILLIAMK

SENIAL ONGN, FUNUS GA-STEN

CLD

SALARY

061164

50 630 CF

65 18 1

*25. 382

SALARY

$25,890

---

## Page 33

#PAY ADJUSTMFIT IN ACCORDANCE HIPA SALARY SCHEDULES OF PLI9-301

PURSUAAT

TC AUTHORITY OF DCI

AS PROVIDED IN THE CIA ACT OF 1949;

AS AMFADED, AND A-DCI POLICY

DIRECTIVE DATE? & SUTOBER 19+2."

FFFECTIVE DATE OF DAY ADJUSTHENTI 10 OCTCUER 1905

NAME

HARVEY WILLIAMK

SERIAL DEG, FUNDS GROSTER

ULD

SALARY

041164 50 €J0

CF. GS 18 1

524,50r

• NEW

SALARY

525•382

---

## Page 34

JGD :

19 NOV. 65

SECRET

(When Filled In)

0D/piri

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION,

NDF

1. SERIAL HUMBER

1. MAME (LAST-FIRST-MIDDLES

061164

- HARVEY WILLIAM K

MATURE OF PERSONMEL ACTION:,

DESIGNATION AS FARTIC/PANT IN CIA

RETIREMENT

AND

DISABILITY SYSTEM

10

• 10.65

FUNDS

IF i0 c8"

ORGAIZATIONAL DESIGNATION

DOP WE :

OFFICE OF THE CHIEF

18. POSITION TITLE

CHIEF OF STATION

18. CLASSIFICATION SCHERULE 16S, 18, 0ts.)

7S. OCCUPATIONAL SERIES

0136.05

EFFECTIVE DATE

11

2ii.65

•8. CO58 CENTER NO. CHANGEABLE

.J.S. CATEGORY OF EMPLOTMENT

6136 1.267 0000

PO, LOCATION GE OFFICIAL STATION

REGULAR

#: ESC O0E OTHER LEGAL AUTHORITY

PL 88-643

SECT.

203

12- POSITION KUMBER

1J. SERVICE DESIGNATION

0262

16. GRADE AND STEP

D

12. SALARY OR RATE

181

25382

EMPLOYEE WILL BE NOTIFIED BY DISPATCH, FROM THE DIRECTOR OF PERSONNEL OF

THIS DESIGNATION AND OF HIS RIGHT OF APPEAL TO THE DIRECTOR OF. CENTRAL

INTELLIGENCE.

.1D. ACTION 20. Employ.

CODE•

28

10

I& MIE EXPIBES

DA

OFFICE CODING

NUMERIC

ALFMADETIC

50630/WE

29. SPECIAL

REFERENCE

SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

12. STATION

1; 23. INTEGREE..

24. Hegire | 25. DATE OF BIRTM

CODE

CODE

Code

Da.

26 DATE OF GRADE

pA

36533

RETIREMENT DATA

CODE

31. SEPARATION

DATA CODE

3

TYPE

09 131 16 05117159

11. CORRECTION/ CANCELLATION DATA

.ca.

EOD DATA

87 DATE OF BEI

05 17 59

SJ SECURITY

. 34 SEX

RED. NO

35. VET. PREFERENCE

COOK

FICA

HONE

JA SERV COMP

DATE

DA

2

MORE

COMP, DATE

va

38 CAREER

CATEGORY

39

FEGLI / HEALTN INSURANCE

CAR

RESE

cope

CODE

WEALTW INS CODE

PREVIOUS GOVERNMENT SERVICE DATA

42. LEAVE CAT

PROV

tEMP

CODE

CODE

43.

FEDERAL TAX DATA

FORM ERECUTEDI

COCE

NO PAR ELEMPTIONS

FORM ERECUTED

ROSAGE LA BEAVICE

1. 865

SO SOCIAL SECURITY NO

STATE TAY DATA

CODE ¡NO TAXISTAIRCODE

EXEMP

9 - BARAN EN SERVICE IMORE THAN S VRS,

SIGNA: URE O. CTEER AUT'ENTICAIION

FORM

11-62

1150•

Use Previous,

Edition

SECRET

FOSTED

112606517

GROUP T

Encoded los automa

daciesslication

(When Fled In)

L

---

## Page 35

14-00000

SECRET

(When Filed 1o1

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

pes

04016/65

SERIAL NUMBER

2 MAMS (LAST IIES? MIZAT)

C611A4

HARVFY WILLIAM A

•J. MATURE OF PERSONNTI ACTION.

SERIES CODF ADJUSTHENT

FUNDS.

• t0 y

• io ti

« to i

• EFFECTIVE CATT

00, 0789

Y COST CENTER NO CHANGIABIE

31J0 1267 0000

IO LOCATION OF OFFICIAL-STATION

INTER 'F STATION

12. POSITION NUMBER

0262

iS CURSER SERVICE DESHENATION

IS OCCUPATIONAL SERIES

6136•05

16 GRAY ARD STIP

18

77 SALARY OR RATE

TA. REMARKS

POSTED

1,62165°

125346

SIGNATURE DR OTPER /L'HENTIC: TOX

(€ $81

Form

1-43

MFG 1 63

Use Previous

Edition

SECRET

079:

acternati

(When Filled in)

---

## Page 36

1d-0d0

SECRET

(When Fillod lo)

RZR: 28 JUNE 63

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

DOF

D: SERIAL NUMBER

лана талл-ттват-тошак!

061164

HARVEŸ WILLIAM. K

3. RATORE OF PERSONMEL ACTION

REASSIGNMENT

FONDS

• T0'Y

is: 10 y

• 10 60

IF 10. CF

P. ORGANIZATIONAL DESISNATIONS

DOP/WE

OFFICE OF THE CHIEF

NI. POSATION TITLE

CHIEF. OF STATION

88. CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (GS, 18.414.)

06 / 30|63

7 COST CRETLA NO. CHARGEARLE

3136.6300 1014

TO. TOLATION OF OFFICIAL SPATION

IS CATEGORY OF LAPLOYMENE

REGULAR

• ESE GE OTHER LEGAL AUTHORITY

5A USC 403 J

12. POSITION MUMBER

IN SENTICE DESIGHA ION

15 OCCUPATIONAL SERIES

0262

I GETTE, AND STEP

D

0136.01

18

20000

679

WASH., D.C:

... +

I9 ACTION: 20. Employ

CODE

Code

37

10

28 NIE EXPIRES

88.

OFFICE CODING

62630 WE

29 SPECIAL

REFERENCE

30.

SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEI

32 STATICN

23. INTEGREE

14. Heets | 8S DATE, OF BIRTN

CODE

CODE

CAED

36533

3

09 13

11.6

SEPIRERE#S DATA

JI SEPARATION

32. CORRECTION /CANCELLATION DATA

CODE

DATA CODE

Prae

DA

¡ 26. DATE DE GRADE

ed.

127 DATE OF LET

ол.

93. SECURITY

RED NO.

38 SEX

EOD DATA

3S. VET. PREFEREME

coO&

16 SERV. COMP

DATE

137. LONG COMP. DATE

но

19.

#0 SOCIAL JECURITY NO.

COOK

:16%+

PREVIOUS GOVERNMENT SERVICE DATA

O NO PARMIOUS SINNICE

• 4O BEAN 3Y SERBILE

I. BREAK IN BERVICE DING THAN S 195D

38 CAREER CATEGORY

C008

FECLO / WEALTH INSURASCE

WAIVER

MALIMIAS CODE

12. LEAVE CAT

CODE

"ROW

43

11 26

VEDINAL TAX DATA

NO TAMEREMPTIONS

144.

FORM EAR:LIED

STATE TAI DATA

core

TO TAX ISYATECODE

• YЕЯ

8. N0

2. 40

SIGNATURE OR OTHER AUTIENTICATION

FOSTED

107/02/6370K

FORE 1150

Ise Previous

Colition

SECRET

281563

₫8.68 D

B90027At 97 N88

8408 ca:09

(When Filed In)!

.. •

ts.,

L

---

## Page 37

IN ACOCEDUCE AUTH THE PRO ISIONS DE PUBLIC LA

ANO

OCI HEUSRANOUN DATEC

'AUGUST 1954 - SALAT'

is nogUsTe? is FolLons.

OctOseR

SERIAL ORON

FUNDS GEST SALARY BEST SALARY

HARVEY WILLIANK .

5611A4

AI1OO

CF 13 1

BIAS0O

1AY

220000

---

## Page 38

PSC

12 SEPT 62

SECRET

(Whon Filled la)

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

OXF

8. SIMLAL HUMBLA

¡ 8. MAME (1418.8185) MODLE)'

061164

HARVEY WILLIAM K

J HATREE D8 PERSONALL ACTION

REASSIGNMENT

• (CORRECTION)

10 1.

FUNDS

8 10'68

Cв TO CF

8, EFFECTIVE DATE

но.

06 1. 081.62

7. COST CENTER NO CHARGEANLE

1 CAREGORY OF EMPLOYMENT

REGULAR

8: CIC OR OTHER LEGAL AUTHORIE

3132 1000:1000

80. LOCATION DE CIFICIAL STATION

50 USE 403 J

DOP

TASK FORCE W

OFFICE OF THE CHIEF.

1В. РОЗТЮМ 11918

WASH., D.C.

18 POSITION NUMBER.

OPS OFFTCER.CH

JA FLASTIPICATION SEMEDULE 16S, 1B, 8861

GS

13. OCCUPATIONAL SERIES

0662

1A GRADE AND STEP

b.01

18

18. CAREER SERVICE DESIGHATION

D

18 SALARY O8 RAIE

18500

IHIS ACTION CORRECTS FORM

1150 EFFECTIVE DATE 06/08/62 TO SHOW THE

TITLE, CLASSIFICATION, GRADE, STEP, & SALARY WHICH WERE

PREVIOUSLY OMITTED.

17 86tr07: 20 Employ

1008

Lode

57

10

CH. HIE ZIPIRES

SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFTICE OF PERSONNEL

21.

OFFICE CODING

23. SIAPION

SODE

23 INTEGREE

24 Mogirs.

•j 8S PATE OF DIATH

AMMA BAC

ALPHANEIIG

CODE

Code

• DA

6,1100

TFW

750131

09 1 13|16

TO SPECIAL

RETIREMENT DATA

131. SEPARLTION

12 CORRECTION; CANCELLATION DATA

REFERENCE

CODE

DATA CODE

W043

33 TIT.

PREFERENCE

COSE

36 SERV. COMP DALE

37. 10N6.

COMP, DATE

38. САНЕЕЯ

CAR

gr.Sv

1494

47.

cose

10 $T.

PREVIOUS GOVERNMENT SEAVICE DATA

¡O. HO PRADIOUS SERVICE

• - NO BREAN IN SERVICE

BRIAN 3R SORYICE LESS THAY STHST

BALAN IN BRAVICE IMOHE IMAN I YAS!

47. LEAVE CAY.| 4J.

голи

Jo. DATE OF GRADE

#0.

27 GATE OF 1E8

33. SECURITY

REQ NO.

SE SEX

TIPE

37

EOD DATA

COOE

06

30

NaDe

| 08

62

FEGIS / HEALIN INSURANCE

0. waiven

MRALPH 148 COOL

10 SUCIAL SECURITY NO.

FEDERAL TAX DATA

Cuad

44.

TAR BRGMPTIONE

STATE TAX DAYA

CODE MU TAX STATECODE

EXEMP

1.988

8-108

SICNATURE OR OTHER AUTHENTICATION

67449

51b 11,2103

1150

Use Previous

Edition

SECRET

6B0UP T

faciatre ison artemabt

BRE 85516.08' 31

(When Filled In)

642-898

#*#

DeR$

HITO

---

## Page 39

mili

SECRET

(Wars Find ta)

i NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

1. SET. RE HENDED

& NAME (LAST. 51439-010864

HARVEY KILLIC K

I'MATURE OF PERSORMEL-ACTICH

REASSIOANONT

• tO

y I0 68

#: F00DI

& TO

CARIATCHAL DESIGHATIONS

LE SURECTIVE DATE. -

-J'S CATEGONT OF EMPLOVMENT

0109/C2

P. 8019 CRATER NO. CNANGEABLE

ACCULAR

A CSC ON OTNER SEGAN ANTHORITY

12122. 1060.1001

HE LOCARON OF OSFICIAL STATION

SO USC U03i"

TASK FORCE W

TED. THE CHIFF

18. POSITION TITLE

SA CLRSSIFICATION SCHEDULE (6S, ID, A6.)

REMARKS

2.6.

H8 POSITION NUMBER

19352

30. GRADE AND STEP

1S. CECUPATIONAL SERIES

1136.01

NO CAREER SERVICE DESIGNATION-

19 SALARY ON BATE

195.00

19

ACTA20: 10 Eragtoy

CoDE

Corde

27 ..

PAL ATE ERPIdES

Cl!1N

DO SPECIAL

REFERENCE

J0.

SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE-OF THE OFFICE OF FERSONNEL

A2. STATION / 23. INTEGREE

ALPUABETIG

CODE

code

75313

RETIBEMERY DATA

JI. SEPARATION

DATA CODE

DA

11?1

; 32 6048.0910%/ CANCELLATION DATA

Da.

30=8

:%6. GATE OF GRADE

10.

1 17 DATE OF IEI

DA

34. S8X

35.

1578

81.

33 SECURITY

HEO NO.

EOD DATA

1e888. 10Nt

DATE

JA. CARTER CATTIGAY.

39

COCE

FEGLI/ NEARIN INSURANCE

MAALTH INS COOL

8O SOCIAL SECURITY NO

PREVIOUS SOVERNMENT SERVICE DATA

SI. LEAVE CAT

CODE

CAR

pany

43

10rm

9-7:8

a. nò

8.288

SEDERAL YAI BATA

STATE TAN DATA

YORE PRICUTED

TAX STATEÇODE

H42M8

169 194 145

D- BARAN IN HEAVICE IMORE THAT S ISSI

2. 00

SIGNATURE OR OTNER AUTHENTICATIÓN

POSTED

- 162

11S0

Uno prorious

Edition

SECRET

8/31/62dE0

#APT

1x566888 Iras antanalit

90092128÷2 688

dear. 20. 38

(When Fülled In)

19-980

---

## Page 40

14-00000

IN ACCOPRANCE WITH THE PROVISIONS OF PO Le 86-568 AND DCS MEMO DATED

1 AUGUST 19580 SALARY IS ADJUSTED AS FOLLOWS EFFECTIVE 10 JULY 1960.

50

NAME

SERIAL

ORGN

GR-ST

OLD SALARY

NEW SALARY

DI

HARVEY WILLIAM K

561164

41 09 6S-18 1

$17,500

. $18 +500

EMMETT D. ECHOLS

DIRECTOR OF PERSONNEL

---

## Page 41

SECRET

Linentas

PAS:

1O AUGUST 1960

Sprial Nä

12.: Nomo' (Lost.firs-Middlo)

561164

Mo.

1'2

•Do.

Tr.

, 70.

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

TO DAC

T1 Vớt. Prol.

5. Sex

Da..

Ñong-0

¡Codo

0g 113.115

5 Pr- 1

10 Pr. 8

M

•|10

Apre

Mo

12.

1105-1

¡ Codo!

Mo.

No-2

1

LCD

: Da.

22

14. Urizunintional Deugnations.

HARVEY WILLIAM K

CSE Retril 9. ESC Or Other Logal Author.

Yes. 1

Code

No. 8.

1-50 USCA 403:2

PREVIOUS ASSIGNMENT

Codo

15. Löcoin

37

16. CS - FOD

Mo.!

Ds.

Yr.

09

29

47

113

Car toại

Yos -1

Codo

No.812

D: Utteral Station

Station Codo

DOP FI STAFF

DIVISION D•

OFFICE OF THE CHIEF

16. Deps. • FieS

17. Position Tille

Dept

*-1

¡Codo

USild - 3

Fron

- 5

OPS OFFICER CHIEF

21. Grado & Step, 89. Salary Or Rate

83. SD

2109

WASH•, D. C.

18. Position No:

175013

N° Sory. 50. Occup. Soros

072

0836.01

#3. Appropriation Numbor

18

18500

11s.

Dj.

*X| XX I.XX

27. Nature Of Action

Codo

05/17/59

ACTION

Elt. Dato

Co.

"Yr.

0127 1003 1000

Type Ot Eagloyee

Codo! 30.

Separation Dosa

CONVERSION TO PERMANENT

SUPERGRADE RANK

31. Organisational Designalons

07 1 27 160

REGULAR

PRESENT ASSIGNMENT

Codo

132. Location Of Olficial Station

Station Codo

DOP

FI STAFF

DIVISION D

OFFICE OF THE CHIEF

33. Dopt. - Frela

34. Position Title

Dopt

Code

UStid. 3

trgn

• 5

1-1

OPS OFFICER CHILE

38. Grado A Stoo 39. Salary Cir Rato

40. SO

4109

WASH. 2,

0.

35.

sition No.

75013

36. Sary. 37. Occup. Surios

0872

GS

0136.01

43/Apprepralion Numbor

Mo.

tha.

Yr.

181

1.18500

05/11/59

XXXXX: XX1 1123.1003.1000

* THE DIRECTOR OF CENTRAL INTELLIGENGE ON 27 JULY 1960 APPROVED. YOUR PERMANENT

• GRADE AS GS18.

10-

2.24.00

wi

TORARD, 1150g

8.94.11

SECRET

(4)

c, 3

1 73

19S)

---

## Page 42

Pre. 1960

Cercommelatiors.

ind, het reush

---

## Page 43

14-00000

SCRET

(Then Filled In)

FITNESS REPORT

EMPLOYEE SCRIAL NUMBER.

061164

SECTION A

1. NAME

GENERAL

(Fire)

(MIddles

2. OATE OF-BIATH

8. GRADE

9. 30

HARVEY

Bi OFFICIAL POSITION TITLE

•chief of Station

9 CHECK IN! TYPE OF APPÖINTMENT

CAREER:

MEDIATE

CANTER-DROVIBIÓNAL (Ser tairrucilma - Sectlan C)

ADECIAL (SpicIls):

1. DATE REPORT DUE IN OP.

K.

13 Sept 1916

GS-18

D

%. OFMIDIMIAR OF ASSIQNWENT

8. CURRENT STATION

DDP/ WE,

1O, CHECHIN) TYPE OF REPORT

TEMPORARY

INITIAL

ANNUAL

RHASHIONMENT IMPLOVA!

BOECIAL (Spechly):

I REPORTINO PERIOD (PoN- 1E)

1. April 1965 - 27 September 1965

SECTION: B'

W'- Heads

PERFORMANCE EVALUATION

Porformance ranges from wholly inodequato to illahtly loss thon sgrisfoctory.. A rating in this category regulres

positive ramádial actiori. The nâsuro of the action équld rongo from counsoling, to further training, to placing en

probarion, do reassignment or lo saparation..

Describo action tahon;or proposed in Section C

A - Adesiais

Forformance mere's all requirements. lo lá emirely sorisloctary and ln characterized neithet by delicioney moe

p - Proficiont

S - Seroinsi

Portormance is more thon sorlofactory. Dostrod rosulra ora boing producod in a proficione manner.

Perlormance is charucterized by exceptional proficiency:

O - Questarding Performance is so enceptional in relation to requirements, of the work and in comperison lo the performance of

othere doing similar work as to marront apoclol recognilion.

SPECIFIC DUTIES

Líso up to six of the most importont spocitie durlos performod durinio the rating porlod.

Insere roting letter which best describos the

manner in which employee performs EACH specific duty.

Considor ONLY elfactiveness in performance of that duty.

All employaos

with suporvisory responsibilities MUST bo poted on thoir obility to superviso (indicaro numbor ol employaos supervicol.

SPECIFIC DUTY NO.!

A TEA

ITTE

Chief of Station,

SPECIFIC DUTY NO.?

Base in

Handles Station relationshiy with Ambassador and Erbasay and the

LET

TINa

SPECIFIC DUTY NO$

RATINO

Supervises CA Prograr.

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. &

EATING

Engaged in reorientation of Station FI Program.

SPECIFIC DUTY NO.$

ETTE

SPECIFIC OUTY NO, $

A A TINC

„ETTER

OVERALL PERFORMANCE IN CURRENT POSITION

ake into account everything about to employee which Influencos his effectiveness in his current positlon such os par

ormanco of specific dulles, productivity, conduce o

bob, cooperativeness; pertinent personal troits or hables, anc

articulor, limitations or talents

Based on you knowledgo of employod's ovorall performance during the paring period

loco the lestor in the eating box corresponding to lhe statement which moss accurately rollocis his lovel of performonse

₽ S OCT 1965 p

FoRM 45

OSSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.

SECRET

RATING

LETTER

---

## Page 44

1d-0d0d

SECTION C

SECRET

NAKRATIVE COMMENTS

OFFiCE OF PERSCANEI

Stata suggestions: made for impriseient of work parlormanco.

on foreign languágo comperence; il required for current position. Amplify or explain rating's given in Soci

basia lor deformining futuro porsonnel action.. Manner el performance of managerial or supervisory dutios miss do desceibei, a

applicablé:

WAIL FOUN

My rating of the performance of this officer remains the sane as the

description of his perfomasse wich is contained in his fitness report

for period ending 31 March 1965.

SECTION D

DATE

CERTIFICATION AND COMMENTS

BY EMPLOYEE

I CERTIFY THAT I HAVE SEEN SECTIONS A, B, AND C OF THIS REPORT

SIONATURE OF EMPLOYEE

2.

ODER ME SURVISION

EE HAS BEE

30

DATE

27 September 1965

BY SUPERVISOR

TiF THIS REPORT HAS NOT BEEN SHOWN TO EMPLOYEE, GIVE EXPLANATION

Mr. Harvey is currently at his overseas post.

OFFICIAL TITLE OF SUPERVISOR

ITYPED OR PRINTED NAME AND SIONGJURE

Chief, is Division

BY REVIEWING OFFICIAL

COMMENTS OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

I concur in the evaluations giren Mr. Harvey on' duties No. 2, 3 and 4.

I believe duty No. 2 could have been rated "outstanding" rather than "strong, "

with justification. I also think, however, that dity No. I, involving the overall

administration and management of the Station and its personnel, should more

appropriately be rated "proficient, " or perhaps "strong."

DATE

21 October 1965

OFFICIAL TITLE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

ADDP

TYPED OR ENTO NAVE AND SIGNATURE

Biomas H. Karanossines

SECRET

---

## Page 45

SECRET

FITNESS REPORT

EMPLOTEE SERIAL

NUMpeR

-06Li64

SECTIONA

P. NAME

(Plest)

William

(Mirdie)

K.

Harvey

O. OFPICIAL POSITION TITLE

Chief of Statton

D. CHECH (X) TYPE OF APPOINTMENT

CARIEN

REBERVE

TeMPORARY

EÉR-DROVISIÓNAL (Seo Inairclione • Section E)

SPECIAL (Specify):

HI: DATE REPORT DUE IN O.P.

GENERAL.

2. DATE OF BIẠTH

D. SEX

A. GRADE.

18. 50

13. Sent 1916 M:

Y. OFF/DIV/BR OF ABSIGAMENT

GS-18J

&. CURRENT STATION

DDP/WE/

1O? CHECK (X) TYPE OFIRE FORT

AMÁSSIGNMENT BUPRAVISOR

PHASSIONMENT CAPLOYEE

PECIAL (SpeCIEN!

13. REPORTINO PERIOD (Pro- 1o0)

1. April 1964 - 31 March 1965

SECTION B

# • Weak

PERFORMANCE EVALUATION

Performance penges from wholly Inodequate to slightly less then satisfectory.. A roting in this category requlrea

positive romedial action. The nature of the actlon could'range from counsoling, to further trolning, to pléeirig on

¡probotion, to reassignment' or to soperation. Describo actlontaken or proposed in Soction C.

A - Adequate

Performonco moots all roquirementa, I is entirely notisloctory and is characierised nollior by delisteney nor.

nicollenco:

P. - Profilent

§ • Stong

'O - Qutstandinst

Porformenco la moro than otisfactory. Dostrod resulls oro being produced in a proficions menner.

Performance la charocterisod by exceptional profleloney..

Performance Is so exceptlonal in reletion lo requirements of the work and in comperison to tha paiformanco of

others doing similer work as to warrent speclal recognitlen.

SPECIFIC DUTIES

Llot up to sly of the moni importone spocifle dutios performed durlne the raring period. Insers rating lovie which best deseribes she

monnor In which employes performs:EACH specific duty.

Consider ONLY affactluoness in performance of that duty.

All employees

with supervisory responsibilielos MUST bo potod on their obility lo superviso (Indicato number-ol employsed suportiaod).

SPECIFIC DUTY NO, I

RATING

LETTER

Chief of Station,

SPECIFIC DUTT NO. $

RATINI

LETTER

the Bese in

Handles Station relationship with Ambassador and Embassy and

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. a

S

RATING

LETTER

Supervises CA Program-

SPECIFIC DUTY NO, A

Engaged in reorientation o1 Station FI Program.

SPECIFIC DUTY NO.9

RATIN

LETTE

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 8

RATING

LEPTER

OVERALL PERFORMANCE IN CURRENT POSITION

PR A

A TINO

LETTER

formance el specille.

particular limitations or talents.

the eating period,

place the letter in the rating box corresponding to the sialement which most accurately reflects his lovel of performance.

15 JUN 1965

*ORM. 45

OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.

SECRET

---

## Page 46

SECRET

then Eaterer

SECTION C

NARRATIVE COMMENTS

tres polen nehe one demed i chen rate being to pope penden ice chines

Siote, suggestions made loe improvement of work poiformance.

on tororge. language competence, it requirod tor current po

sition. : Amplify or esplain ratings gi

in in Section & to provido beara

baris for determining future personnel action: Mannor of parlormence of menageriol or supery son duti

applicable:

Mr.

Harvey hos continued to manage the Agency's notivities 1u

eritbusiasm

nnd.drive which chardcterized tne description.or hts. erpmach, wte

i Fates the done:

Stition Chiüf role in hla past Fitness Reporte

4.941

In big efforts to reorient the

Stationts FI progrin tovan Suviet Satellite

tart ta Mr. Harvey has devoted considerable ener to acquirine the trate information

needed for this task.

This has beca vell reported nud the responsibilities for carry-

ius out this

shift in operntional approuch have beca precisely delegated. It la still

early to assesa the results operationally but the mortentation has been well orgän-

As an carly indiention of the trend this la biking, several successful technical

opertions have been established which are woll' on target.

To accomplish the abjectives of the CA responsibilitiea of the

Stition

Harvey has acgulred thc most competent officers with this highly

specialized skill

and has staunchly supported their efforts to prosecute this prugin which rains ex.

tensive.

He bas considerably Inproved the Station lationship with Embassy officers,

Including the Ambassador, by devoting greater effort to this necessary ponse of the

Station Chief's role and the Abassador, during a recent triy to kishingting made

sprcial mention of the degree of confidonce he and in the Station's reporting and la.

the extent to which it bas kept him properly informed.

During the period under roview Mr. Harvey, acquired a Deputy Station Chief • for

whose arrival he had waited more than 6 months.

He has delegated general management

or the Station's activitico to this officer, who has applied binself diligently to

this task and the results have been promising. Mi harvey nad been receptive to dead

quarters guidance, is extremely prompt and thorough in replying to bis correspondence.

_(cont"l)

CERTIFICATION AND COMMENTS

BY EMPLOYEE

OATE

'CERTON THAT OF ANE SEEN SECTIONS A B, AND C OF THIS REPORT

BIONATURE OF EMPLOYEE

Enoloves at Fell Station

BY SUPERVISOR

IF THIS REPORT NAS NOT BEEN SHOWN TO EMPLOYEE, GIVE EXPLANATION

MONTHS EMPLOYEE

HAS BEEN

ULTER MY SUPERVISION

24

DATE

¿ June 1965

COMMENTS OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

OFFICIAL TIYLE OF SUPERVISOR

C/WE

BY REVIEWING OFFICIAL

DATE

3. Junet?

OFFICIAL TITLE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

ADDP

SECRET

---

## Page 47

14-00000

SECRET

William Ko Harvey

Fitness Report for Perfod I Apr11 1964 - 31 March 1965

Section C (cont'a)

Sume administrative detalis, such as the reports ou the performance of

officers whose evaluation he was reluctont to make, Mr. Harvey has had

a tendency to postpone despito repeäted efforta to provoke him lato

timely. reaponse.

I have rated Mr. Harvej's overall performance outstanding 10

recognition of his superior supervisory ability, htà unusual skill in

expressing his views

and his determination to accomplish hia basie

objectives regardless.or. the

obstacles which he encounters.

The

Station 1a complex, is engaged in some highly sensitlve operations which

must be guided with a strong hand and by'nn officor with a degree of

professionaliam which Mr. Harvey to well able to supply as a result of

his extensive operational experience.

SECRET

---

## Page 48

SECRET

BERIAL NUMBER

FITNESS REPORT

061.164

SECTION A

T. N'AME

GENERAL

(Migra)

I DATE OF BIREN RISEN

1e onsole

3. 30

K.

1916

187.11

-Hsrvey

Willlam

A. OFFICIAL

POSITION TITL'I"

Chief of Station,

TEMPORARY

ÉM-PROVISIONAL (Sio Maptluna " Séctina C)

DDP/ WE/

ТО. СМЕСК ТАР ТУРЕ ОР ДЕЛУНТ

INITIAL'

ALASSIONMENT AUSEAVISOR

11. DATE REPORT DUE IN O.P.

12. REPORTIE PERIOO (FAIN

'1. March 1903 - 31 March 1964

SECTION B

PERFORMANCE EVALUATION

Performance conjos tom wholly inadégrore do slighely.

A coting in pris category requiros

pastliva comedial action.

probotion, to reussignment ior la soporation.

The nature of the action could tange fee counsel ted to borhoopaning, lo placing on

Cescribo octron taber or propi

A - Adeqvate

Porlormance meats all requiremonis. it is enticoly sotislacrony andits clos

octarized.reither.by. deficiencynoe

encollanco.

P • Profleion!

$ - Strong

O - Qutstandina

Porformanco is more thun sarinfactory. Desired posulta cro beino senduced in a proficion! mannor.

Porformanco is chorocroriaod by exceptional perficiency.

excopsionol In rolation po, requiraments ol the mock and in cemporison la the porformance of

other's doing' similos work as to morrone saacial, recognition.

-SPECIFIC DUTIES

Lise up to six of the most imporeone spocilic düties performed during the roting period. Insers raring letter which boss describés the

in which omployee performs EACH specific duty..

Conside ONLY ellecriveness in pertarance of thor duty.

•All employees

mith supervisory rosponsibilities MUST bo rated on their obility lo supervise (ardscore sumser de employeos aupereiaost).

SPECIFIC DUTY NO.T

I TING

LETTER

• Chief of Station,

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 8.

RATING

LETTER

Handles Station relationship with Ambassador and Entassy and

Station

Bases.

SPECIFIC DUTY NO, #

Supervises correspondence with headquarters ou entire complex

Station program.

S

LETTER

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. A

Supervises CA Program.

#PECIFIC DUTY NO, B

RATING

LETTER

Engaged in reorientation of Station FI progra=.

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. #

RATING

LETTER

OVERALL PERFORMANCE IN CURRENT POSITION

Tato into or our are china, bod chine soduce if crea bit effect ness in hie ear positin auch oa per

spocille dutios, producrivipy,

parti: ular limitations on talents, Based on

your knowledge el employee's artrall perforeans during the roting period,

ploce the letter in the potlag bosecresponding to the sratesent which most accuratety reflects his level of parlormonco

12 AUG 1964:

Ps 45

OBSOLATE PREVIOUS EDITIONS

SECRET

---

## Page 49

SECRET

BANNISTER-IN

NARRATIVE COMMENTS

dicoto mimificent strongs on soakroses demonateled in cuter pondon t each ar DENSC

all silumance. Store ignestion made for improvement o toil

on fôreign language competories.

*phale relesion hip to

to maiming. Comment,

given ins

basis, foe dermining titure per

eat are Me even co me gelar

applicoble

Mo Harvey's caragenent of; the Acency's program in

has to date been charac-

terized by the forcefulness and drive which have gained for hi

ments a reputation for dnamiam

le has undertaken to acorn envious asslen

station

Fl progian toward Sortet satellite targets and any delay in this reorientation has

been due fully to our Inability for ad infotrative reasons to supply the personnel

he desires

on the time schedule which he would prefer.

Although notty toclination oriented touard the objectives of CA, he has pre-

served aid guided Lie rost complex CA program in Western Europe with understanding

and sk111. To accosplish this it has been necessary for Mr. Harvey to learn the Intri

casies of an extremely complex local politienl situation. : This he has set about to do

with confidence.

His sccumulated experience 1n earlier assigments has equipped

Mr. Hargey with a sclf-sosurance and confidence which I have rarcly seen equalled in

any other officer.

The continuance of ideal rclationships with the key Embassy of-

ricials in

ha's been sonewhat handicapped by the sudden death of the principal

officer in the Entassy who was knowledgeable of our progran and the impossiblity of.

bringing into knowledge of our activity. the next lower level echelon of Embassy of

ficials for reasons begond Mr. Harvey's control.

This handicap has been overcome

over the past year sid Mr. Harvey 13 currently supervising extremoly sensitive poli

tical operations and contacts to the satisfaction of the Ambassador und his headquarters

He delegates resporisibilities skillfully to those officers under hia command who

are best guallfled and by his own outstanding performance,

which is always at its

best under heavy stress, he earns an intence loyalty from

these personnel. He demon-

strates cost-consclous.sss and outstanding supervisory ability.

SECTION D

CERTIFICATION AND COMMENTS

BY EMPLOYES

I CERTIFY THAT I HAVE SEEN SECTIONER. B, AND C OF THIS REPORT

DATE

27/2/65

MONTMS

EMILTYEE

HAS BEEN

UNDER MY SUPERTISION

12

DATE

UXSUPERYIOR

TIP THIS REPORT HAS NUT ARTS SHOWN TO EMPLOYEE, OVE EXPLANATION

Report will be shen to employee upon return iron overgens.

OFPICIAL TITLE OF SUPERVISOR

C/WE

28 July 1964

COMMENTS ON REVIEWING OFFICIAL

BY REVIEWING OFFICIAL

DATE

17' AUG.

OFFICIAL TITLE OF ME VIENING OFFICIAL

Deputy Director for Plans

SECRET

Irred on chan fit

Richard Helms

---

## Page 50

SEEX

= 2;

18 Apr1] 1963

MEZORANDUM FOR: Director of Personnel

SUBJECT&

Fitneas Report - Mr. Willian K. Harvey

1o This Fitness Report covers the period fron 1 April 1962 to

I5 January 1963 durIng which Ar. Harvey was Chief, Task Force Wo

2. As a sendor officer in the Clandestine Services; Mr. Harvey

has behind him a long record of professional accomplishment achieved

during toure in waghington as well as seven years in Berlin. He 13

thoroughly grounded in the tradecraft of clandestine activitles, and

bes brought to each and every assignment an intelligent, thorough,

and uncommonly conscientious approach.

His qualities of leadership

are attested to by the: loyalty and devotion' of those colleagues who

have worked under his direction. If anything, there has tended to

•grow up salthin the Clandestine Sérvioes a coterie of officers who

hare come to regard themselves as "Harvey men", & development which

Mr. Harvey hirself has not encouraged but which demonstrates the

strong emphasis on Mrst-class tradecraft which he has insisted upon

in each assigment.

3.

As Chief, Task Force W, Mr. Harvey had the task of organizing

and developing a

large operational team devoted to the acquisition of

intelligence and the handling of special operations directed at Cuba.

He was obliged to work within a corplicated bureaucratic framework, a

fact which made the clearing of actions & laborious' and time-consuming

exercise.

Under his direction, the Task force grew substantially in

sive and in professional competence with the result that when the

Cuban crisis arived in October intelligence assets were in place to

rate a significant contribution to the overall intelligence picture.

tr. Harvey devoted considerable ingenuity, long hours of personal

tire, and great energy to this entorprise,

ard, although certain

aspects of the intra-goverrmental coordination

of the operations had

rough sledding, his net achievement was the establisment of an

of=

fective, going concern with momentum which curries on to the present.

Lo MI. Harvey, after a strong performance

as Chief, TFW,. has

been assigned as Chief of Station

and is now preparing himself

to take over at that post in the coming months.

2 9 APR

10533

(eriewing Official

idebard Helms

Deruty Director (Plans)

SECRET

Thomas H. Karamessines

Assistant Deputy Director (Plans)

Read 23/4/63

Lukh

---

## Page 51

1d-0n0d

00tem

16801

15001. 1907

MEMORANDUM: FOR: Director of Personnel

SUBJECT::

Willlam K. Harvey: - Hemorandum in lleu of

fitness report for period 30 March 1960 -

10 May 1962

It is difficult to prepare a fitness report on this

outstanding officer, largely because fores do not

lend them-

selves to measuring

his many unique characteristics.

strensths are in Professional knowledge and competence in

the operational field, in a toughness of, mind and firmness

of attitude, while the latter in past years have moved him

into positions that were sometimes stronger than superior

officers, with a responsibility for adjustments necessary

in matters- of policy in relation to Agency position in the

commnity, were able to handle easily, his own closeness to

policy positions.of the Agency within the U.s. community in

the last

two years has found him with a real ability to

handle pollcy matters

and to adjust to necessities, without

losing his firuness and his independence of thought.

2.

He is sometimes accounted to be less than outgiving

of information about operational matters in which he is engaged,

yet it should be remembered that this characteristic has been

part and parcel of a sound operational attitude in his career.

He has a wide knowledge of personalities within the officer

corps of the DD/p and is for the most part a good selector of

officers to accomplish necessary tasks..

He handles people

well.

to

He has a tremendous energy and

is a loyal officer both

his superiors and to the purposes of the Clandestine Services

of CIA.

3.

He is

in the DD/P.

one of the few distinctly outstanding officers

r973 ÷1664

W. LLOYD GEORGE

Cief

Foreign Intelligence.

---

## Page 52

14-00009

8 September 1960

MSMORANDUM IN LISU OF FITNESS REPORT

The following statement rolates to the performance of

Milliam K. Harvey, GS 18, Chief of FI, Division D.

This officer has held a series of responsible positions

in DD/P and its predecessor clandestine intelligence organiza-

tion for well over ten years:

He excels in the field of

clandestine operations in general and especially so in that

phase of clandestine staff. and operational activities concerned

with the procurement, bandling and exploitation of highly

sensitive and critical intelligence and operational materials.

Ris performance generally over the recent years has

proved him to be one of the outstanding officers

of the DD/P

organization.

He has demonstrated clearly superior performance

staff responsibility at leadquarters and as Chief of

Ease in a very important field station where he was directly

engaged

in

supervising and carrying

on

operations successfully

against targets of the bighest priority.

In the period under review,

June. 1959 to. March 1960, he

took over and

directed functioning of one of DD/Ps most

sensitive components charged with achievement by special

means against targets of

the highest importance.

carrying

on negotiations and liaison with other components

of CIA and other Agecies and Departments of the U. S. Government

concerned with his special field.

His performance of this

responsibility in many respects has been outstanding.

continued to demonstrate his fitness to handle a wide range of

pcsitions of major responsibility within the clandestine service.

Among his outstanding characteristics.are: thorough

understanding of his profession and ability to make this clear

to persons of high level

whose knowledge of the Clandestine

Services is general.

strongly astressive in pursuit of his point'

tenacious, and on occasions

of view.

While this

may sometimes make for difficulty on the part of those in

higher echelons who wish to

dispose of a complicated problem

easily and quickly, this officer's persistence in carefully

---

## Page 53

14-00009

presenting his arguments and in holding to them until their

fact and logic prevail

or until policy

factors override,

makes

him a highly valuable asset to CIA.

Rater _

Reviewer lihandtils

Richard HeIms

• COPS •

2114.06.00

---

## Page 54

1d-0n0d

81.53

14 January 1959

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director of Personnel

ATTENTION:

Chief, Records and Services Division

FROM?

Chief of Station, Germany

SUBJECT:

Fitness Report - Willian K. Harvey

November 1957 - January 1959

1.

Subject's abilitles and performance are too generally known

to require detafled comment.

One of the very senior officers in.

KUDOVE he has been chief of what is probably

the largest and most.

productive overseas Base of KUBARK for approximately seven years.

During this period Subject has been perconally responsible for a

number of operational successes, some of which have been of national

Importances

Possessed of driving oners, determination and initla-

tive, he has fei equals in professional experience and competence.

Throughout his administratlon.of the Baze he has established

and

maintained exceedingly high standards of accomplishment, discipline

and endeavor.

Subject's judgement, on occasion, is Impulsive and

proposals" of

the Base have been, fron time to, time,

advanced "and

defended with greater vehemence

and more. exhaustively than the

occaslon, objectively.speaking, required.' Subject's basic self-

discipline, good sense and loyalty, however, have prevented any such

Incidents, which are in large measure manifestations of the highly

charged

atmosphere and Insistent operational pressures of Berlin,

f'rom

developing Into

serious f'riction sith the German Station or

dashington headquarters.

2.

It has been a pleasure to sere with this officer and,

during nis assignment, he has consistently rendered dedicated

and

effective service of the very highest order.

Toles: 0.020

John A. Bross

CONCUR:

talente/les

/ CHIEF, EE DIVISION

NIBA

STORFT

---

## Page 55

Chup if Busessi

Relin

18 June 1959

this asi

MENORANDUM, FOR: Director of jersonnoi

ATTENTION:

Chief, liccords and Services Division

FROM:

Chief of Station, Germany

SUBJECT:

Fitneas jieport - illlan K. Harvey

January 1959 - June 1959

I have nothing to add to the memorandum dated 14 January 1959.

Subject continues to render an outstanding performance.

Поем. тит

John A: Lioss

I certify that I have seen

this Fitness Report

chl

Willtan K. Mirvey

CONCUR:

Lanes Khitchfuld

Eastern European Division

SECRE

---

## Page 56

Tre

1959 Fitnes

eparto?

---

## Page 57

SECRET

'AND HFLATIONSHIP OF

Son-James

There is on file in the Benefits and Counseling Branch, Benefits and

Services Division, Office of Personnel, an Officlal Disabllity Clalm

File on the above named employee (or his dependen!*) for an illness;

injury, or death incurred on 2 March 1947

CLAIM NUNDER

168-0535

This notice should be filed in the employee's Official Personnel Folder

as a permanent cross-reference to the Official Disability Claim File.

PATE iN NOTICE

& January 1968

SIGRATURE SE BSO REPRESENTATIVE

1ạ- 3, 1076 usa

NOTICE OF OFFICIAL DISABILITY CLAIM FILE

EDIPION.

SECRET

18-28-551

---

## Page 58

SECRET:

Marey

Self

68:0533

There is on file in the Benefite and Counseling Branch, Benefits and

Services Division, Office of Personnel, an Official Disability Claim

File on the above named employee (or his dependent*) for an illness,

Injury, or death incurred on 30 Juby l's64

This notice should be filed in the employee's Official Personnel Folder

as a permanent cross-reference to the Official Disability Claim File.

SIGNATURE OF BSO REPRESE

DATE OF NOTICE

3 January 1968

10-58 1076

& #E

intelier

NOTICE OF OFFICIAL DISABILITY CLAIM FILE

SECRET

14028-293

---

## Page 59

1d-0d0d

SECRET

Hackeys Hilliam Ke

Fauchher-Sally

There is on file in the Benefits and Counseling Branch, Benefits and

Sertices Division, Office of Personnel, an Official Disability Claim

File on the above named employee (or his dependent*) for an illness,

injury, or death Incurred on 42 1967.

68-0531

This notice should be filed in the employee's Official Personnel Folder

as a permanent cross-reference to the Official Disability Claim File.

DATE 'DE AOTICE

3 January 1823

10-5* 1076

DeFilice

NOTICE OF OFFICIAL DISABILITY CLAIM FILE

SECRET

TAтA 49:

---

## Page 60

TRAVEL REIMBURSEMENT VOUCHER

READDRESS

.. A' 11

AULCHIZATICH

Willian K. Harvey

28 West Irvint, Street

Chevy Chase, Nd. 20015

A: Mo-mibeir

B.

￾6-693-18

2/23/66

G-693-18A:

5/15/66

T. EMPLOVEE-NUMBER

(Stare Only)

IRAVEL ADIANCE STATUS

253900

P: CSCICIALISTATION

3: BU.VO. Ma.

8:U.O. FAl0 81.

6. 8=8100 This Pouchess

tổ nept.

LUR 297

LQ,÷59.316

TATEMENT OF COVLANMENT FURNISHED TRANSPORTATIUN

B:1021g0

•C. Collier"

D. Close'

51302.90:

SS: Constitution

:lst

27k,25

AF THA

Economy" :

1: (81 600m

31 10;

New York

Hashington

•!. PAVEE CERTIFICATE: 1100e0

A., Dare

B: Sigriaug

ів ід т6t

Whence?

prises

13. ADWINI:TESTI.E APPROVAL:krinc..ndtforaypsor..l

A. Dato

t. Signature

Namo:

•14. PREVICITATUENTS: The neve pore bus lo, gund cader same argi nath, tas:

B. Part (ma. &i pr.; IC. D.0. Namo and Symbol

15. CERTIFIEL FOR PAYMENT: Pursai916-solturity besied mme. l cores/s ibes

inuitor 15 correl urad pruper lue payruene:

A. Dato.

B. Authorieed Cornly.ig Officer's Signolure

H00:

T.1!0:

16. METHOU LE PHYMENT (For Poy-ng Nilico Use Ondys

A. Cost or Lus=. Check Amr.

B. Enchurigo Rato

C. U.S. S Equivalent

E. Treasuly se Lapesitary Check No, ond Name of Depository

17. ACCOURTUAS ELASSIFICATION

A. Furt

18. Allosment C. Oslig.:T•A) No

D. Orgorisorion) E. Funcsion

(Sralo Orily) • (5101a Only).

USIA: Activity: Sub-activity

iZ. PAYMENT CALEULATION

#A. Amount Claimed

(Seo liem 18.)

B. Diltorences, lany

3. 6-19.G1

C. Amount Allowed

(Vorified correes lo

Approp.

D. Applied to Advance

(500 8801888-)

E. Not to Payoo

*D. Dote

*F. Poyment Roco-vod

F. Objoce

G. Paying Officell. Paying D=ta

(State Only)

(Stare Onty)

i. Amount

09.5

losfeiture of the claio (28 U.S.C. 2916) soù say pereir in a

FORM F5 - 288

5 - 69

---

## Page 61

ITMISSIDE MAY BE ISTO AS A SUPPLEMENTAL SMELH

Remiaaasilancs and Ages i8, Urarácais, racia sanda dor ase de porou pinistro ship ates il éschaggo, cind

Concurruit travel

• Wife.

Daughter, Sally, Age 7

Separate travel

Son, James,

born December. 1917

Lire 625/$1:

DN

1/51

Deros

1+66

1A:

bocạl

•Tone

• t:

'Irívirary ana Desèrpion

1C;

Por Queima,

Da.!y

Rare

FORBARDEI

diar. 21

Marvey: Wife. and laughter

0700

LV. Rome via privaté auto:

1130

•AR.

163 miles at 129

Autostrada tolls L. 1750

Required lees for auto (Ford)

at dock

Preparation of car

Auto check-in fee

L. 1500

1000

L. 2500

Bagrare transport

to

1. 3500

Baggage transfer charges

for hold baggage

L. 9350

2300

LV.

3/4

6

liar. 22

thru30

At sea

9

6

Mar. 31

At sea

1

#18. COLUMN TOTALS (Sun di thick torrardes do les 12A. 00 lor of voucäce)

81R CONTARIE: POINTA COPA +040-12-238-4310

Por Dram

.(F)

Ortor

16)

19:56

2.80

4.00

5.60

24.95

11.25

135,00

5.00

131:25

43. 52

---

## Page 62

'FODi

FS-233

(THIS SIDE LAY BE USED AS A SÜPFLEMENTAL SMEET!

imEMaRsi Damerano dars il Dependerio, esplanardo los nie ol toreudo iegusery sau raire clienchange;

Dolos

18 66

(A)

Local

-IBI

Itinerary and Caseription

Per Diam

Days

•D:

Darly

'Rote

(E)

FORWARDID

'Amiccino

Per Diem

IFi

151.25

Oilers

(C)"

-16.92

April

USUU

1200

1850

AK. New York

LY: New York ila personal auto

AR

Washington

269 miles at 12c

Tolls

BREsaLe transfer chiuse

at New York pier

Railway express charges for

Shipment of 357 lbs. of

baKkage from New York to

Washinkton

1

16.00

10.00

32.28

2.55

2.50

13.00

33.40

Trayell

of

son

June 2

Mune 5

1200

1500

James

LY. Nunich via AF

AR. Paris

LY. PariS via TiA 803

AR. New York

@19-COLUMY TOTALS (Sum of which foramided so iles 184, on lace ol muches) ..

191.25

124.65

#eeNN%:+9442-509-5311

---

## Page 63

FORM F5-283

¡MIS SOF MAY BE USFO AS A SURRENENPAL SMETTI

A man comaton capenaca le centica dottara a dil terbelemente Elened, e eliera, aivo

RIMARASI Danes nãd Ages di Degroderio, riplanaçon lor use al treuda regasi ahio, tarer el eschende, èsc.)

Datos'

18G6

(A)

Local

Tree

lenorary and Destrption

"C."

Per Dim

Days

Rote

(E)

FORMANUED

Per-Diam

IF)

191:25

161..

12-4: 65

1600

1807

June

2

07-10

0830

1215

1745

L: NON TOCK KIA TH 203

AR. Mashington Nat'l Airport

Air travel from Munich is

loss espensive than $302.90

conomy air FARE from

10 lastington

Airport tax in Munich DN500

Direst sshedulina fron Munich

via air.

LY. Munich via LIl 161

AR. Frankfurt

IN. Frankfurt via PA.107

AR. Yashington

Per diem = @ 16.00 less 35%

Shipment of air freight from

Munich to Washfngton (85lbs.)

1.25

5. 20

67.10

Deteried home leave travel for

Mr. Harvey. James and Sally

019. COLLAN TOTALS (Sia of wbach forwarded to item 124, 00 lace al roncher)

296.15/ 222.02

unas dte: 13901-83-8-83

o des tour lei e sie

---

## Page 64

FORM FS 388

JANS 310E MAY

REMARÁSiNames and AGeN'ul Depridea, esplanation" loe

Dales

;A)

June 28

June 22

lily De

July?

June 28

June 29

July

22

July 24

Local

Time

(B)

fernerasy and Description

• (C)

Por Dier

Days

(D)

Daily

Reve

¡€)

FORWARDED

0000

Mashanaton Lia personal auto 3/1/16:00

1520 ARe Indianapolis

33/1 16,00

Nilease 581 8 129

0200 1V. Indianavolis vti personal

3/4/16.00

autu

1500 AR Hashington

3/1/16.00

Miloans 581 miles & 12$

Cost by auto is less than

cost by rail nith scheduling

as follows:

1900

LV. Washington via rail

1205

1505

AR.

Indianapolis

LV .

Indianapolis via rail

0915

AR.

Washington

Per diem 2 * $16.00 * 2.5 $80.00

RT I5t Cluss rall (Family Plan) 169.40

RT Sleeping accomodations (Bcd-

1º00m .

plus roomette is least

76.96

expensive)

$326.36

'nas, 44?

Fer Dities

196.45

50.00

30.00

30.00

50.00

Orher

1ã1

193.00

70.08

18.03

#19, COLUNN TOTALS (Sum of ebica formanded to liera 124, on lace of roachee)

316.45.133.

sit it one 5031985880

• at sen

---

## Page 65

-....?

SECRET

Can FinIN

QUALIFICATIONS SYSTEM RECORD CHANGE

ÄRELICANT CODING DATA

1. 10'

12. APPL. NO.

6-praits

3. NAME

MUST CONTAIN 20-DIGITS

2

DATE

MO

CE BIRTH

DATE

CODED

MO

DA

THE DATA ROOVE (ITEMS 2' THRU 5) WILL-DE FILLED IN

WHEN COOING AN APPLICANT FON THE FIRST TIME..

THIB

годн .13

IMEN ATTÄCHED TO FORM 1962, MASTEN QUALIFICA

TONG CODING REÇERO.

1т. 10

2. EMPLOYEE: 110. 3. NAME:

3-LETTERS

LANGLAGE CODING CATA - FORM IslALE

I LANGUAGE CATA COOR

DASE CODE

15.

9661164

HAR

DATE SUBMITTED

413:3.3

DATE OF

BIRTH

MO

DA

MO

TR

WHEN FORM LUBE DENOTES NO LANGUAGE

44142161149113115 FANC

THE FOLLOWINGIN

ITEM I: "NOT LANGUAGE" (12-DIGITA)

3

2

10

12. EMPLOYEE NO. B. NAME

3-LETTERS

LANGUAGE PREFICICNCY TEST DATA

- SUDE

, «А Ді Н:

E. LANGUAGE DATA ULFORE

BASE CODE

1E3T

O. LANGUAG"

BASE

CODE

TEST

7. DATE. OF TEST

YR

MO

DATA FOR

ITEM 2 THAU 7 iS -

EXTRACTED

FROM

FoR 1273,

LANQUAGE PROFICIENCY AND

AWARDS DATA.

10

6.4

2. EMP/APPL

11O. 3

RAME

3-LETTERS

CODE #

TYPE

BASE

QUALIFICATIONS RECORD CHANGE

EATäR UNDER

"ТУРЕ"

15.

ADDITION TO RECORO

CHANGE TO EXISTING RECORD

D

DELETION OF DATA FROM

EXISTING RECORD

CODE # 2

YR

BASE

2

YR

61

YR

*C.6, 1962a

SECRET

GROUP 1

RACINDEO CAO ANONE ORANG RAIN

(4.51)

---

## Page 66

14-00000

11001

001164

SECRET

PART I-GENERAL

LANGUAGE DATA RECORD

18÷283

DATE DE

-B1A934

%.

13?

isi"

I HAVE NO PROFICIENCY.

ANY

FOREIGA

LAAGUAGE

perinani

PART 11-LANQUAGE ELENENTS

SECTION A.

Renting (40)

CAN

REAU

TEXTS OF ANY DIFFICULTY: OF A GENERAL NAPURE OR IN FIRLOS I AM FAMILIAR MITH, USING THE DICTIONARY

1. ONLY, RARELY.

READ TEXTS OF MOST GRADES OF DIFFICULIT, OF A GENERAL SAPUSE IN IN FIELOS I AM FAMILIAR WITH, USING IME

(2 OICTIONARY OCCASIONALLY.

3.

PACON RIO TENTS DR AVERAGE DIFFICULTY GRenApipargo réforenio, paterials, dec.), USING THE DiCTIONARY

S: I CAN ATAO SIMPLE TEXTS, BUCH AS STAFET SIGHS, NEASPAPER MEADLIDES. EICO, USING.THE DICTIONARY FREQUENTLY.

3.

I HAVE NO READING ADILITY IN THE LANGUAGE.

SECTION B.

Writing (41)

I CAN WAITE PEASONAL LETTERS AND SIMILAR MATERIAL

WRITE FACTUAL

NARRATIVE

AND EXPOSITORY MATRIAL WITH REASONABLE CARIT

ME INVESTO GAOCTIONY

• CAN

ERRORS. AN

MATIVE STYLE,

USING THE DICTIONARY DALY RARELY.

z.

CAN

WRITE PERSONAL

LETTERS

AND SIMILAR

SIMPLE MATEMIAL

WITH CHAFIFTE

SUCCESS.

USING THE DICTIONART ONLY

RARELY.

ERRORS.

I CAN WRITE FACTUAL

NARRATIVE AND

EXPOSI:ORY MATERIAL

FEÉSONABLE CLARITY, MITH FED GRAMNATICAL

BUT IN A STYLE MAICH MAY NOP BF NATIVE.

USING

THE

DICT 2A480

COCASIONALLY.

1. CAN

BUT

WRITE

WITH

OCCASIONALLY.

PERSONAL

LA SIMPLE MAN PINOUSLY CONSCIOLE SACO SO LE. CONVEY ME NEARINGE

BUT WITH HER

PERSONAL

MANY GRAMMATICAL

ERRORS AND

IN A VERY FOREIGN

TATES SO THERE TONEY NO SUSTAYING

I CANNOT WRITE IN' TNE LANGUAGE.

SECTION C.

Pronuciation (42)

1. MY PRONUNCIATION IS NATIVE.

2.

BHILE NATIVES CAN DETECT AN ACCENT IN MY PRONUNCIATION THEY RADE. DE SISFICULTY UNDERSRANDING ME.

MY PRONINCIATIDN IS OBVIOUSLY FOREIGA, BUT ONLY RARELY CAUSES DIFSIGULTE FOR NATIVES TO UNDERSIANO.

A. MY PRONUNCIATION IS OCCASIONALLY DIFFICULT FOR NATIVES TO UNRERSTES".

•5.

I NAVE NO SMILE. IN PRONUNCIATION-

CONTINLE ON REVERSE SIDE

444C

SECRET

(H-89)

---

## Page 67

14-00000

SECTiON D.

CONTINUATION OF PART LANGUAGE EiERLATS

Spraking (43)

PRACTICAL ANÓ SOCIAL SAUATIUASI I CONVÉNSE PAELLY-ANO IUCHATiCALLY

ILIAR AND I INDIGT SOME POPULAR

QUOPATIGAS.

¡ GeTALOME QUITE DILL INSIGUATIAS SO DAILY LIES ANDERAVEL AÑÓ CAN CUNQUET ROUTINE BUSiNESSIA PARTiCULAR PiELUS

A. ! MANAGE dO GÉRALONÓ IN THE MOST COMMON SITUATIONS OE DÁLLE LiES ANC iHAVrI

" NAVE NO ADILITY TO USE THE LANGUACE' IN ANY OF DUE ANOVE RESPECTS...

SECTION E.

Ualerstmaling (#)

1 MONDIAND MON INNEN

.2.

1 UNDERSTAYO

INDIUSTAND

MOST OF

TECHNICAL

CONVERGATION

"HAT I MEAH GY

BELUDING MOS

JONES AND

4.

AND HA SOLO ON MONTIEN PORTS.

•ACO TOCRORESANO ON IME PÉLEPHONES A UAURASTAND SOME ON AMAI

• AM NOT AALE TO UNDEHSIAND PHE SUONKN LANGUAGE.

BEFORE CONTIMUING - CHECK PART 1I TO ENSURE THAT YOU HAVE CIRCLED ONE NUMBER PER SECTION.

PART 11I-EXPERIENCE AS TRANSLATOR OR INTERPRETER (85)

1. I MAVE HAO EXPERIENCE AS A TRANSLATOR.

I MAVE HAO EXPERIENCE AS AN INTEPAMETER.

3. 80TM OF THE ABOVE STATEMINTS APPLE.

"- NONE OF THE ADOVL STATEMENTS APOLY.

PART IV-CERTIFICATION

CERTIFY

THAT

THE

GIVEN

JHIS CERTIF

¡CATION CONSTITUTES MY

INGORSANY A FLYEN ABN

ABOVE

1S TAVE AND ACCUMATE TO THE

25-115.

PAR.

ICIA).

FOR A MAINTENANCE

P4-18LR062

OBJECTIVE

LANGUAGE

PESFICIENCY

BECOME

ELIGIBLE

AM AWARD,

AND

1 UNDERSTAND THAT I

AN

THAT

IHRESPECTIVE OF

THE DATE OF TESTING.

CUMULATIVE AS OF THE ANNIVEASARY

DATE OF

COMPLETING

1H8S TORE.

TEST

BEFORE 1

ĐE

DATE SIGNED

i°/2/6.)

(47)

---

## Page 68

SECRET

(9700 F.1859 10)

VERIFIED RECOND OF OVERSEAS SERVICE.

TO:

Office of Personnel, Statistical Reciting Brunch, ROOM 5. E 2500 Feadquarters

CE ENFLOYEE

EMPLOYEE SERIAL NO

MIDDLE

OFFICE/COMPONENT

(Prine)

0 611644.

HASVEY

NILLIAN

50

INSPECTIONS.

USE

APPROFRIATE

SPACE BELON TO REPORT

"OA. 1OR50

A. SP

DASIC DATA.

DIATECTION.

NUMONA FOR THE MONTH.

"COOK"

PCS PATES OF SERVICE.

DARIVAL

COUNTAT

CMIT

CODE.

, 40-42

PCS (Basic).

CORRECTION

•CANCELLATIO%

30- D8

92-81

Ya. 14

38.37

30.30

3

03

21

66

565

TIPE OF, DATA

, DEPARTURE

TOY (Basie)

coor

CORdICTION

£7

CANCELLATION

19 0 14 P A

88-20

30-91

TOY PATES OF SERVICE

RETURN

•DAY

34-33

196-32

AREA ST

ORAT

40. 48

39.30

SOURCE

S$ RECORD DOCUMENT

TRAVEL VOUCHER

DUPATCH

CABLE

DUTY STATUS OR TIME AND ATTENDANCE REPORT

OTNER (Spocaly)

DOCUMENT RDESTIFICATION MO.

DOCUMENT DATE/PERIOD

IN 80062

22 March 1966

REMARK$

PREPARED BY

CAL DIVISION

AT CIVISION

FORM

I.

REPORY

ANHOTATEZCM

SOURCE DOCUMENT

DATE 3/29/66

ABOVE DATA VERIFIED CORRECT.

BASED UPON SOURCE

DOCUMENT CATED

SIPURTURE

SECRET

CROUP I

fd. 101

---

## Page 69

--27

Cites ol the Duricior Gurart

62.0. 10%v6.

51053301

Mateuen

Nue done it .

My Liaison delicer sTins toh me of

ircrendous

assistance

didi CO-operation that ho

and

sectin received

at all times frou

Harvey.

I understand that dir. darvey has now

returned

to Wastingoon and I would like

to say ho

nuch I appreciate

01l that le has done to assist

the wor's of my ofticers inl

With kindest regards

2nd

best wishes,

Yours

The Honorable W.f, Raborn,

Director Intolligence Agency,

Central

WASHINGCUN.

---

## Page 70

SECRET

(hen Pilled la)

VERIFIED RECORD OF OVERSEAS SERVICE

TO:

Office of Personnes. Sististical Reporting Branch, ROOM'5 E 2%y Leadquärters

CAPLOTEE SERIAL AO:

LAST

: NAME OF. CAPLOYEE.

OFFICE/COMPOMEAT:

FIRST.

8-84

061164

ELSISI, WILLIAN K.

50

INSTRUCTIONS

"CODE!" COLUM

•вє* #0R

THR MONTH:

AND

LAST N

ONLP.FOR

PCS DÁTES OF SERVICE,

, ARRIVAL

COUNTRY

OHIY

COỌK

PCS (Besic)

CODAXETION

CANCELLATION

=*- 2 #.

30-38

PRAR

$2-39

AND NT H

$4.33

01

98-37

08

30-9#

66

365

TYPE DF DATA

TOY DATES OF

SERVICE

RETURN

BREAISI

TDY (8seic)

COPAECTION

CANCELLATION

40.47

34 - 35

SOURCE OF RECORD DOCUMENT

THAVEL VOUCHEN

DISPATCH'

CABLE

DUTY STATUS OR TIME AND ATTENILACE REPORT

OTMEN (SpaCily)

DOCUMERT ADENTIFICATION NO.

DOCUMENT DATE/PERIOD

Le Jan, 1966

IN 26160

REMARES

PREPARED BY

XICA TOIVISION

10-м145lа 201710м

¡ BEDORT ANNOTATEO ON

¡ JI STURCE DOCUMENT

123 Jan. 2966

SECRET

ABOVE-DATA VERIFIED CDETIIT.

BASED UPOR SOURCE

DOCUMENT CITED

14-108

---

## Page 71

14-00000

SECRET

abon Filled inj

VERIFIED RECORD OF OVERSEAS SERVICE

TO: '

Orfice of Peradtrel, Statistical Peporting Bränch, RooM 192 Curte Eati

NAVE OF ENPLOYEE

EMPLOYEE SERIAL NÖ.

LAST

(Prime)

61164

Willison

TEENTMATE

TARHRMT.WIALIGM

NUMBER FOR THE MONTH.

INSTRUCTIONS

COPAÈR POS' ON TOY.

0*

BASIC DATA.

CORRECTION:

INSERT

АРРДОВПЛАТЕ СОСІ

OR-CARCELLATION:(One OnIn).

DIGITS ONLY FOR YEAR.

wit way

PCS DATES, OF SERVICE

TYpE

0* DATe

DEPAATURE

PCS (Boadc)

CORRECTION.

CANCELLATION

92-33

34-J5

/

06

30

63

TDY DATES

OF

SEPVICE

TYPE OF

DATE

DEPARTURE

RETURN

TDY (Basic)

29-29.

30-3:

32 - 83

34-95

36-37

CANCFALAYENNE

SOUPCE OF

RECORD

DOCUMENT

TRAVEL VOUCHER

DISPATCH

CABLE

DUTY STATUS OR TIME AND AYTENDANCE DEPON?

OTHER (Specily)

DOCUMENT

IDENTIFACATIC TO.

DOCUMENT DATE/PERIOD

05:0 i1/ 20222

REMARNT

CEFICE/COMPONENT

19÷20

50

COLLEA

US19G

Yant

Cap:

40-118

365

EMIT

#9-

PREPARED AY

FISCAL

DIVISION

FINANCE DIVISION

FORM

в- 50 14518 108916

REPORT ANNOTATED ON

SOURCE

DOCUMENT

DATE, deli

SIGNATURE

SECRET

ABOYE DATA VERY DO CORRET: SO UPSO SOUAGE

14. 90)

---

## Page 72

SECRET

‹When Filled do)

VERIFIED RECORD OF OVERSEAS SERVICE ISUAZUTED 6!

Office of Personnè., Statistical Seporting Brarch, 25 192 Curle Eall

EMPLOVE SERIAL- NO.

1. 8

_NINE OF EMPLOYEE

ÖFFICE/COiSONENT

MIDDLE

(grant) ,

8d-28

3i/

INSTRUCTIONS

APPROPRIATE SPACE DELON TE

REPORT DATA FOR HITHER

TO DESIGNATE

BAETMEN SUBMISSIS

MUNDER FOR. PHA MONTA.

AND LAST THO

ONLY FER VEI.

A#PROPRIATE

REPORT DATES BY USING THE

PCS DATES OF SERVICE

TYPE OF DATA

COUNTRY

1AX4

PCS (Besie)

COARECTION

CANCELLATION

29-90

PEEN

99, 97

39-8B

99-81

TOY DATES

OF. SERVICE

TURE OF DATA

DEPARTURE

ряслецІ.

OMIT

CODE

28

09 TIA

TOr (Draic)

"СОРРЕСТО»

CANCELLATION

гw.89

38-32

33:34

83-38

38.08

0 4

801

SOURCE OF RECORO DOCUMENT

BRAVEL VOUCHER

DISPATCH

CABLE

DUTY STATUS OR TIME AND ATTENDANCE REPORT

OTNER (Spocely)

COCUMENT IDENTIFICATION NO.

DOCUMENT DATE/PERIDE

HEMANNS

PREPARED BY

DIVISID%

MANCE CIVISION

1451a

i REPORT AMMOTATED OU

TORAGED

DOCUMENT

ABODE DATA VESSFIED CORRECT.

BASED UPON SOURCE

DOCUMENT CITIO

SIGNATURE

SECRET

14-103

---

## Page 73

14-00000

SECRET

VERIFIED RECORD OF OVERSEAS SERVICE

130471 +E0 961

TO:

oftice of Personnel, Statistical Reporting Franch, Roos 202 Curte Hall

¿I NAME OF ENFLOYEE

EMPLOYEE SERIAL NO.

OFFiCE/COMPONENT

LAST

MIDDLE

8-д.

(Pedat)

84-28

Plantil:

34

USE

APPAOPRIATE SPACE BELOW

TO DESIGNATE WHETHER SUBNISSAON

NUMBER FOR THE MONTH. AND LAST

INSTRUCTIONS

INSEAT APPROPRIATE

BASIC DATA, COURICTION.

PETER SE CAMCRERATOR CERANSO

POR YEAR.

"CODE" COLUM

RÉPORT CATES DY ÚSING TH

PCS DATES OF SERVICE

TYPE OF DATA

ARRIVAL

40 5.

#@.

87.20

39.30

31.92

10414

92-90

NAMANTON:

• di

35:30

CoUNTaY

OMIT

39. 10

PCS (Beeled

CORRECION

CANCERLATION

VRA"

39.98

TOr DATES, OF

SERVICE

TYPE OF DATA

DEPARTURE

RETURN

AREA(8)

OutT

TOY (Deade)

CORRECT.ION

CRACELLATION

19-30

F8A*

38-92

39-48

38-30.

99-38.

10

0.

801

TRAVEL VOUCHER

SOURCE OF RECORD DOCUMENT

DISPATCH

CABLE

DUTY STATUS OR TIME, AND ATTENDAICE REPONT

OTHER (Spacily)

DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION NO.

DOCUMETT DATE/PERIDO

PE ARRMAX,

PREPARED BY

FISCAL DIVISION

FINANCE DIVISION

8-30

1451a

REPORT ANNOTATED ON

SQUACE DOCUMENY

DATE

SECRET

ABOVE DATA VERIGILD COARECT.

BASED LAGE SOURCE

: DOCUMENT CITED

14. 10)

---

## Page 74

CONF IDENTIAL

-I+FE9SE5

"HARVES

"LACE DE RESICCACE NULS APPOINTED

(UPL 0.+1

WilliAm

HESIDENCE DATA

LASTOPLACA DE RESIDIACE

FOLTER

(Mille)

KiNC-

DESIGNATED, AS PI.

L8W, IRVING S7 CheMy Chase, ind

OsiNGer

MARRIrD

SEPARATED orroecto

DE MARRIEÓ, INDICATE PLÁCE DE MARRIAGE

15 DIGNERO, PLACE OF DIVORCE DECREE

Berlin

DE MIOCARO, INDICATE PLACE SPOUSE DIEO

IF PREDICUSES MARGIED, INDICATE MAN. 131 OF SPOUSE, REASONISI FOE PERMINATION, ANO DATERSI

DATE OF MARRIAI

12152

DATE OF DECREE

DATE JEOUSE DIFD

MENREND UF FAMILY

ADDRESS-(Vo

Steeel.

Calgi dune, State)

'PELLPHONE NUNDER

CIARAG-RACE NEEFOILA

MANES DE TAILOGEN

UNMES.

sally

HAME 05

INES (Or male duardsan)

Vecensed

NAME OF

Tesale awards on)

SARA

AODRESS

54X

Same

AGE

12

F

15 A10

ADDRESS

TELEPHOSE NUMOIR

0F

ANDRESS

INdiANA potes, tret

1415 NeRtwood Drive

DEEN TOLL OF YOUR AFFILIATION MITH INE AGERCY FOR IMAGENCY PURPOSESE

TELEPHONE

NUMBER

2519

MiNI (Nr. Me3, Miery

PERSON

BE NOTIFIEN IN CASE OF EMENGENCY

(last-ferst-Middle)

Above

Inne,

State)

RELATIONSHIP

HUNE ANDRESS (..

MiNI

TELEPHONE

4-5178°

DISINESS STORESS (ÍA., S88001, CiPY, RONO, SPATO) AND NAME DI EUPLOYER, DS APPLICABLE; BUSINESS PELEPHONE A ENTENSION

H8..

NAMED ADOVE WITTING DE YOUR AGENCY AFFILIATI34I

1$ 1931219

AUTNORIZED TO MARE NECISIONS ON YOUR BEMALE!

DEES THIS LAPIVIQUEL NON CHAT ME MAS BEEN DESIGNATIO AS YOUR EMENGENCY

ADDRESSEEI

INE PERSONS GAMES

ABOVE MAY

ALSO BE NOTIFIEO

BEESSE DE LESLIN DE DIMER REASONS, PLEASE SO STATE

10 INESASE

ON I

SUCH

AUTIFICATION IS NOT DESIRABLE

THOS FORM.

VOLUNTARY ENTRIES

BaNK

• BARRING INSTITI

TIONS WITH #NICH YOU HAVE ACCOUNTS

BANiK OF.

HAMilTON NATIONAI

silveRSprING

CONTINUED ON REVERSE SIDE

CURRENT RESIDENCE AND DEPENDENCY REPORT

=3.

1 JAN 5?

61

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 75

CONFIDENTIAL

5:

(CONTINUED)

IN THOSE NAMEISI,

ACCOUNTS LISTED"

I TOU COMPLETCO A LAST MICE ANO TESTARNT CO :"

MAYA TOU PIECUTIO A POLLA OF A TORMED

700..: 16

• ANGELO DO DIMON ONE SISSIESON ONE

Wife

-ADDATIONAL

DATA ANDIOR CONTINUATION OF PRECEDINO IVEN!

SIGHED AT

DATE

11/4p

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 76

02/Sm=

SaB-C-ROL-T

(When fliled in)

TUTORIAL TRADITO. REPORT

Student

: William K. Harvey

Year of Birth: 1915

Grade

* 28

EOD Date

8 09/47

03/21/63 - 06/17/63

.8 WE

Service Designation: D

No. of Studants

8 1

Inatructor: Mrs.

receives 2.

Thie 18 to certify tast - W1l11am K. Harvey

hours of tutorial training in

- 19051886-

Beginner

Non-beginner

BENGT C. HERDEF

Calai Instructor

10/21/63

rosacion

Date

GROUP 1

Eschated tam avichalic

declassilicatice

(when filled in)

---

## Page 77

Pri 1961: Pesaoniel

materiil

---

## Page 78

14-00009

SECRET

(When Filled bi)

REQUEST FOR MEDICAL EVALUATION

NAME (Liasi, dIrai, AliAlla)

Harvey, William K.

S. ORFICE: DIVIBION, BRANCH

B. POSITION TITLE

• VATE OF REQUEST

28 Noverber 1966

A. GRADE

0S-18

B'-EMPLOVEE'S ENT;

5765

PRE-BAPLOTHENT

INTRANCE ON DUTÝ

TDI STANDBY

OVERSIAS'ASDIGNMENT

ANNUAL = ExeCUtivO

RETUAN TO DUTY

FITNESS FOR DUTY

MEDICAL RETIREMENT

STATION"

705 0A PC®

TIPE OF COVER

NO, OF DEPENDENTS TO ACCOMPANY

010.

MIS SON (SA 29)

FANDENT

REP

ORTO OF MEDICAR

ATTACHED

ASTURATRON OVERSEAS

ETA

STATION

NO. OF DEP.'S

O. OVEMSEAS PLANNINO EVALUATION (Uno Dioce mual bo chechod)

.YES

NO

10. COMMENTE

QUALIFIED FON CURRENT DUTIES AT HEADQUAKTES

11, REPORT OF EVALUATION

• REQUESTINO OFFICER

SIGNATURE

ROON NO. E DUILOIPO

EXT.

DATE

FORM 259

24 MAY 1967

USE PREVIOUS

ELITIONE,

SIGN

ATURE FOR CHIEF OF MEDICAL STAFF

PAYSICAL RUSKEENTS OFICA

SECRET

(38)

---

## Page 79

SECRET

(anen Filled Bes?

REQUEST FOR MEDICAL EVALUATION

#. POSITION TITLE

HARVEY, WIlLIam I:

S OFFICE. DIVISION, BRANCH

1. WAT&OF'REQUEST

31 January 1966

TA- GRADE

A. EMPLOVEE SETT.

PRE-EMPLOYMENT

ENTRANCE ON DUTY.

TOY STANDÓY

SPECIAL-TRAININO

ANNUAL.

RETURN TO DUTY

FITNESS FOR DUTY.

MEDICAL RETIREMENT

"'PURPOST-OF EVALLATION

MOG$/TOY

OVERSEAS ASSENGENT

ETO

STATION

TOT ORFCE

TYPE OF COTEN

NO. OF DE PESCENTS TO ACCOMPANY

DEFE

HISTORY (SF A AFTACHEC

'ENTS" REPORTS UP MEDICAL

RETUAN FRUN@YERSEAS

TETA

STATION

NO. OF DEP. $

S. OVERSEAS PLANNINO EVALUATION (IO DOCk MiSs DO ChOChed)

& REQUESTiNG OFFICER

SIGNATURE

ROON NO. A BUILDING

NO

80. COMMENTS

Qualified for Current Duties

11, REPORT OF EVALUATION

31 Jamary 1966

DATE

31 January 1966

FORD 259 MENIONS

EXT.

TSIGNATVIE FOR JISE RIP MEDICAL STAFF

SECRET

180)

---

## Page 80

1d-0d0

SECRET

(when Filled In)

REQUEST FOR MEDICAL EVALUATION

B. NAME (La01, Mirer, AlIcile)

HARVEY, *12212m R:

1. OFFICE, DIVISION, BRANCH

WE DIVISION

PRE-EMPLOYMENT

ENTRANCE ON OUTY

TOY STANDOY

#PECIAL TRAINING

ANNLIAL.

RETURN TO DUTY

PITNESS FOR DUTY

MEDICAL RETIREMENT

- de

MADMANE MANNEN!

17 March 1965

# GRADE

GS 13

& EMPLOTEESENT.

7257

POSITION TITLE

COS

EVALUATION

NDOWTOY

OVERSEAS ANNIONMENT

ETD

10 March: 1965

STATION

TOY ON FCE

PIS:

TYPE OF COVER

Nor DEYENDENTS TO ACCOMPANY

2

OF DEPENDENTS® REPORTS OR MEDICAL

HISTONTISF

89)

ATTACHED

RETURN FROM OVERSEAS

ETA

STATION

NO, OF DEP. '5

PLANNINO EVALUATION (UNE bOCA

made be chocked

•. REQUESTING OFFICER

YE$

NO

10. COMMENTS OT

259 Sorverded at request of

11. REPORT OF EVALUATION

DATE

8 3 22 63

FOR 259 23H 6EY

PREVIOU

SIGNATURE

TROOM NO. A SUTCETTE

- 1404

72.57

QUALIFIED FOR PROPOSED O $

PCs

SIGNATURE FOR

SECRET

4261

---

## Page 81

SECRET

REQUEST FOR MEDICAL EVALUATION

LONFICE, DIVISION BRANCH

WS DIVISION

I PÚRPO:

PRE-EMMLOTMENT

ENTRANCE ON DUTY

TOY STANDBY

Dopenderts:

• SPECIAL TRAINDU?

Clara

sally

dog

20 hia: 58

HETURN TO DUTT

FITNESS FOR DUTY

"MEDICAL"RETIREMENT

DATE OF REOUCST

3. POSITION TITEE

17 March 1965

A. ONADE

G5-16

7157

EMA10A1160

MOGS/TOT

OVERSEAS ASSIONHENT

29 arch 1965

TYPE OF COVER

NE. Or DEFENDENTS YO ACCOMPANT

NO OR PEENS NICERONTS OF MEDICAL

Q.

RETURN FROM OVERSEAS

ETA

STATION

No. OF dEP. 's

8. OVERSEAS PLANNINO EVALUATION /Uno Oluct munt to chocted)

TES

NO

19, COMMENTS

259 tornarded at raguest of

11. REPORT ON EVALUATION

DATE

F088 259

EDITIONS.

- 9. REQUESTINO DELICEN

SIONAT IRE

ROSM NO, " BUILDING

EXT.

3157

QUALIPIED FOR PROPOSED O 3

PCS

SIGNATURE FOR CH

.* 3 22 €3

SECRET

MEDiCA

126)

---

## Page 82

SECRET

REQUEST FOR MEDICAL EVALUATION

NAME (Lost, fleas, Midla)

Villan K. Harvey

3. OFFICE, DIVISION, BRANCH

WE Diviiion.

de 047:96: 8P 141

PRE-INFLOYMENT.

ENTRANCE ON DUTY

TOY STANDBY.

SPECIAL TRAINING

ANNUAL

RETURN TO DUTY

¡TATE OF REQUEST

16 May 1983

B. POSIT

JON TITLE

GRADE

Chiof of Station

08 18

A ESPLOTRE SENTI

183 Be M:

MOOSTOY

OVERSEAS ASSIONMENT

o/s 1 July 1983

STATION

TOY OR SCH

PCS

TYPE OFCOVER

NO, OF JEFENDENTE TO ACCOMPANY

3

NO.

OF DEPEMDENTS

REPORTS OF MEDICAL

palmed pie. 181801

MEDICAL RETIREMENT

RETURN FROM OVERSEAS

ETA

STATION

NO. OF DEP.'S

OVERSEAS PLANNINO EVALUATION (One GiUCH anI Do ChACkEd)

D. PEQUESTINO OPFICER

YES

NO

10. COMMENTS

Roquest evaluation for above PCS.

SIGNATURE.

ROOM NO. A BUILDING

4404

E715T

19, REPORT OF EVALUATION

DATE

ЛІСМАТЦОВ ССО СНІЄВ

SECRET

120

---

## Page 83

SECRET

'(When Eitni tr)

REQUEST FOR MEDICAL EVALUATION

NAME (Lane, FerTe, AlredDe)

Dependents of Sillian R. Harvey

9. CFFICE, DIVISION BRANIM

VS. Division

PRE-EMPLOTMENT

NTRANCE ON'DUT

TOT STANDBY

SPECIAL TRAININE

18 May 1963

TA. GRADE

Chiet öf Station

•GS- 18

B EMPLOTGE'S EXT.

52 5%

RETUAN PO DUTY

FITNESS FOR DUTY

MEDICAL RETIREMETT

OVERSEAS -SSIONMENT

0/a 1 July 1963

STATION

TOY OR PEN

PCS

TYPE OF COVER

NO. OF DE PENDENTS TO ACCONPANY

MISTOS PESE ES ATRACHED

PORTS OF MEDIÇAL

RETUAN FROM OVERDEAS

STATION

NO. OF DEP.'S

OVERSEAS PLANNINO E VALLATION (UTO DIOCA MUN DE CheCHed)

#, REQUESTINO OFFICER

YES

NO

10. COMMENTS

RAMANO. A BUILDING

4 B 4404

E AP.

7157

89's on file la sedieal office - per telephone

conversation 16 May 63

1E. MEDOAT OR EMAINATIO

DATE

19N 259

USE PREVIOUS

SOPONS

Guinen

SIGNATURE FOREMIEE OF MEDICAL STANE

SECRET

ELanca. i.

120)

---

## Page 84

SECRET

(When filled in)

REQUEST FO: MEDICAL EVALUATION

NAME: (2eot, PJ008, Alcia)

HARYEY, WILLIAN:

B. OFFICE. DIVISION, BRANCH

PURPOSE OF

PRE-EMPLOYMENT

ENTRANCE ON DUTY

TOT STANDET

SPECIAL TRAINING

ANNUAL

RETURN TO OUTY

FITNESS FOR DUTY

MEDICAL RETIREMENT

4. 414

PLANNING EVALUATION (One block mat be checked)

YES

NO

10. REMORSCOT. EXAAMTATIEI

COMMENTS

25 January 1962

IN SITION TITL

08-18

G'EMOLOTEE'SUIT.

8472

ALUATiSN

boor

CrETSEAS ASSIONMENT

ETO

28 January 2062

ISTATION

PIPE OF COVER

NONE

SUS TO PESENDENT CHEO

REPORTS OF MEDICAL

REUIN FROM OVERSEAS

TRATION

1 NO OF LEPS

• AFQUESTING OFFICER

SIGNATURE

Untimedy

ROOM NO. & BUILDING

2505 - 1. 3111241

EXT.

I1. REPONT OF EVALLATION

DATE

FA 259 YERPOEWIOUS

.:962

DONATURE FOR CHAT ME A gIR

SECRET

1241

---

## Page 85

1d-0n0d

SECRET

REQUEST FOR MEDICAL EVALUATION

S. OFFICE. OIVIВІ

Fl Stell, Divielos D

DOSITION TITLE

Division Chief

20. October 1960

*. GRADE

GS-18

•. EMPLOYCE SENT.

8471

FRiE-EMPLOYMENT

ENTRANCE ON OUTY

OVERSEAS RETURN

TAYYTAYO:89

%: PURPONE OR

EVALUATION

XxI

OVERSEAS ASSIGNMENT

28 October 1960-

STATION

Cormany and Switserland

TOT OF PES

TDY

NO. OF DEPENDENTS TO ACCOMPANY

201L0

194W

DEFENDENTS"

REPORTS OF MEDICAL

ВТОИТВ ATTANE

SPECIAL TRAINING

ANNUAL

RETURN TO DUTY

PITNESS FOR OUTT

"MEDICAL RETIREMENT

OVERSEAS PLANNINO EVALUATION One bluck must be chockou

YES

NO

10, REPONP OF EVALUATION

.. REQUASTINO OPFICER

SIGNATU

ROOM NO. *BUTETTINTS

1505.1

"EXT.

4164

Sabjees deperted on mother IDI prior to evaluation. However 18 Quallfied for.

proposed TDY.

10.-

DATE

NOV 1200

SECRET

(26)

---

## Page 86

SECRET

When fillod li

MEDICAL ACTION REQUEST AND REPORT

Trayo sea

1p1es8!

middles

REQUEST FOR PHYSICAL EXAMINATION EY

"Hashta, buen so

TO POSITION

TYPE OF POSITION

Departmental

7u.s. 9101d

3. 0915, APrIl 2960

EVALVATE fOR

Ovarseas

Pro-Employmant

Annual

Special ISpeellys

BY MEPORT OF MEDICAL EVALUATION

=ouallied dor Full Outy (Gonerall

=uadilled for Deparinental Dus, Only

Remarke:

muellfled for Full Outy ISpociola

mol squalitled

QUALIFIED FOR BEPARTESIML DUTIES

AND PRECOST TEX 0,510

14, JUN 1960

SECRET

MEDICAL OFFICI

---

## Page 87

SECRET

(HARA Falled las

MEDICAL ACTION REQUEST AND REPORT

1. REQUEST FOR PHYSICAL• EXAMINATION OT

MANE

HARVET

SA TO POSITION

_Deimany.

TYPE OF PUSITION

→ Depar

montel

X..

PCS

W1221am.

OFFICE.

DOP/56/

EVALUATE FOR

1M181101

"Be

BRANCH

PCS

CJ Pro-Imployment

Annual

DATE

about 1952÷

MADE

05676.:

10

sacolnd tour

I1 REPORT OF MEDICAL. EVALUATION

indeedified for full Duty

(Generall

alitied for Deporemental Duty Ondy

Remarke: Pleasenotify

for Full Outy ISpeelall

-Joisqualifled

x041, of resulta.

WANTED FOR FROZOSED PES 0,0 SSONMENT 1T9

1957

2366.

MEDICAL

---

## Page 88

..EPORT. OF PHYSICAL.QUALIFIÇATIUAD

FOR VOUCHERED EXPLOYEE OWL

MATURE OF. AÇT10N

GRADE

TITLE DE POSITION

— : DEPT.

UNFIT FÓR DUTY IN THE SUVE GRADE AND POSITION.

I FIELD

SUBJECT FOUND

FOR UNVOUCHERED EMPLOYEE ONLY.

SUBJECT QUALIFIED FOR:

FULL DUTY OVERSEAS

PROFILE SERIAL (MILITARY ONLY)

DEFECTS MOTED AND/OR RECOMMENDATIONS:

LIMITED CUTE OVERSEAS

DUTY IN USA CHLY

facilities

FORM, MO.

NOV 1951 97-92 REPLACES PREVIOUS EDITIONS OF FORMS 37-88 ANO 98.97. WHICH MAY BE USED..

PHYSICAL REQUIREWENTS OFFICER

(28)

---

## Page 89

•: 030

REPOR. PHYSICAL QUALIFICATIONS OUTY

-31 Jan 5: 194-

_ WAS GIVEN A PHYSICAL

Farvera MIlliac Re:

EXAMINATION ON THIS DATE AND FOUND QUALIFIED FOR

Oversona

FULL DUTY OVERSEAS

_ LIMITED DUTY OVERSEAS

PROFILE SERIAL (FOR ARMY EM ONLYS

DEFECTS NOTED:

DUTY IN USA ONLY

Approved for WI. To soport to Holical aftor IDY

JOHN R. TIKTJEN, H.D.

FORM

DEC

---

## Page 90

14-00000

PHYSICAL QLALIFICATION RECORD

BUTTY, MILLIA: K

NATURE OF. ACTION

E.O. Do

TITLE OF POSITION

GRADE

Intelligence Officor

P-7

DEPARTMENT OR FIELD

Depritzontal

Subject was foind physically

in the above grade and position.

To f 1048 uriat for duty with this organizatior.

RECOMMENDATIONS:

2 Jebruary 19-9

DATE

OF PHTSICAL REIRENENTS

FORM NO. 38-97

---

## Page 91

14-00000

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

WASHINQTON 25, D.

& PHYSICAL QUALIFICATIONS FUR DUTY:

-194-31

_ WAS GIVEN A PHYSICAL

EXAMINATION ON THIS DATE ANO FOUND QUALIFIED FOR

TFULL DUTY OVERSEAS

LIMITED DUTY OVERSEAS

PROFILE SERIAL (FOR ARMY EM. ONLY)

DUTY IN USA ONLY

DEFECTS NOTED:

lone

809#

N08 180; 87-98

480991

---

## Page 92

14.00000

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE, ANGE

• WASNINGTON 28, 0.

REPORT Le PHYSICAL QUALIFICATIONS FUR DUTY

194

_ WAS GIVEN A PHYSICAL

EXAMINATION ON THIS DATE AND FOUND QUALIFIEO FOR

IS FULL DUTY OVERSEAS

_LIMITED DUTY OVERSEAS

PROFILE SERIAL (FOR ARVY EM ONLY)

.. DUTY IN. USA ONLY

DEFECTS NOTED:

Nors

John Is aigen

FORM

82, 38-30

888 8708

-.....

---

## Page 93

19. me.

APPLICATON FOR FEDERAL EMPLOAFT

Trierritor

НОС10 4 ОЗ0M1M4R 04418 194991

T Gami That l menti

Pair.

0.1.0.

5361111na

King

T.3o

Harvey.

2627 39th Street

•Hashington, D. O.

6 Lo, in

There tune

Kentucky

Sari lay and die These l's ame sul undy.

Danville,

Indiana

9/13/35

C) Female

T88D Marriant

T3. Brats surt ave

C7 Sungla

51-14955

185

=a Mende

"far seen an trache

engloyal by the forderal Crameras are pandall Junto and dule al

19.

Miran

DO NOT WHITE IN THIS BLOCK

1290721

Bales: end 5915-1004

A¿pa dioriow:

"I GENDE

Dio potat

locatons

J80 E DATRIN....

5 BI: 1975162

(e) What isste teet.

miao dalary for mil direst

pos fear.

CAP. 33

Is Washinaton: D. 62......

anyaharo in tha Urusert Snasts".

outrite the Unita Ststeei.....--

PoN till not se erasidered for postilane paying lons

10t 3 5 A 000 * Treet,

3-9÷850473109

In aulliolent detail to anaid to Ciri Sarco Cuerm

Wale8 7 9 4448921476

50+839-71375

si:*

зонайтіс

EACH pria. ich.

= Annived

sganitasical acheste whina pous

S2894

raj true matines

BY 1UA 11

2549771 ' slich Charily

or with your Fiste

daun aerly the principal dale tena pra barinead la duca paraton

DRATITO AXI

lyn loyale and uncinal is deals hul dect in the pro pronai to it Trades Ferton,"

PRESENT POSITION

Ross stagyment (danth yours

Enout ala de juvi preport suadori

Fs.7 or extoymont (eity and Siota)."

Starts. $

Irene s

grap

cal done deserione

serd outdrose o amployer thim.

Daariptur if your wird..

Nant ana kind of englutone superred by you:

Mace so 9ão dE leadicia supervisor

(CONTINUED ON NEIT PAGE

6845790-8

---

## Page 94

Haio ie pa

12/9/40

• 18. 19.:1

:::8/22/47

chinaton, D.G.

M.I., r.y.,

Pittsburgh,Pa. *

FBI - Dept. of Justleo

Lar orcent-counter Intelligence

varione

Do No Ladd

Ria itinering

voluntary

Special Agent & Surervisor

11-9 8 31200

P.n.

so annua

Supervieton ol Puntor Latalligenca operation

10 12/40

be: 100-391808

Attorney-st-In

Dascriptlin al four work: .....

General Praatico of Im

Pirit . 8

"'Correi

So18

Frastico of la

152U UNa dissestate gara

Hono

Voluntary

¡era

N550 0e o. 6/32

Dal dellite per!

Fred il augurgent fety and bertos

9/33

Dansulllo, Iadlan

erpidista

i Daino casito

Darillo, Inalano

"indian lo dil trans

Hong

Alvia Fall, Sitor

Voluntery

Beporter & Printer

Inscription of pour work.

Final

General lewspaper Fabllahing bustness

Laust Dido di yous brainad.

Ion pson ed your merk.

par

TRE LO DA STaNGELO dE VR2I5

FID6 13 38 2122A1016 8.5078:

In E:50A

= 10, 558 or o scal al suspos la maro aldo do da più o

La un sed aberal yous nodo dollina, dire all

192-27NS: 1

---

## Page 95

1.80" * 18 68800 0, 19.028 70 1912

HONH

Piste armat remis paira-

Whitehe a dit tory amman?"

Pry'

Torpillon!

Jules et trasho, yorra)

Te dir au rarene ier et Paris.

Frais.

To

la a la a ni

19-aoute orale lane et prison 1o

12

Marx la) she appropolato leus to truisaie antial-netory conflatten at

2 Hommutare Schen El later Huah Serent Sierra Schei

Inatan UniversI

N.'28

Bloomington, indiana

LAN

Viley High School

Terre knuto, Indiana

Dry

Night

1933.

1937

Denirons Carlretag

17.1 t

TaLB

9/37

Last Your Chint Cin Il 18rd allers a liens inte

- Jour 2211m

-Phil & Paych

20

_20

13 0230%

Ser runtes

Heure

180

mash. mota

95

Years ('empiatod

kray

8. Indicien Fi, lam

Ta) How wae your knowle de of frergn Ling wages Duguire?

Study

b) it gams hame

resserieed tra

BATTAN 8 84 19

1я толком ві разком 10 9, вилизтав, слистисп, госудеок

me le secte lahore troyen

ent dit de pint dietico hand doralr, touter, Attorner

en nd0n1u 11013 chier.

mai orann in prolossional or airantito acclutioa olo.

As prominato surime el murde sur suneta in trire. 52 aboran .....

---

## Page 96

1

'AULE NAME

Bo F. Small

B. 1o Z018ler

A. N. Thuraton

mera Ce 1l1k 4987

BUSINES OR

Sycamore Bide Terro Haute, Indlane

Attz

Cochen bide, Mayerille, V.

Attr

C.J.O.- Weahington, D. C.

TES

mit der Ortent Stute

11 9r728 с3P1919 19

Bei lund Wurdo yano dep in das le coul Stilmo Military, co Meson

агуд вирок Ва ше трі -.-. со--ас

(d)

*

LAIlO1 001110t00 4Y 101rstCKeN

4 ці9 тод, 1а С. солт

low.

lossoll et the crions.

sat titre

Par ats thy 501259 rarid elles

30. D.

T491 79664

PAHT YNEN1474 1P874044 0067120782

M88Y 191 МЫЛК6 61 6247686 82388619167

UшEelaт 06таIfEl5TE Cад178 2 B8MB83

ratte t5 4e 19

14928-380968228

0 50 44 198

aat V1-, 50

38. Aro posan ottool ur amploçen id 9r, y Stula, Tornilary, county,

C. Ca., eto.)

FinITUD

ir APruinTco. ior vi:

partielsals In

180144д76002літідарамилівка

1В! АРД тОд О ПОСТ У0 ТАІ..

IF YOUR AN:WF.F

* 13337334222

THIS SPACE TOR USE OF AFPOINTINO OITICI O1ULT

The Indormation centrical 14 de anarc la Quarios 19 aberro boo karo gort

38 Mano pou ovar hul s norroual rad downi...

33. suswlsrdeliad anx9.20.0009.10000.00.1010.10.100 DM01020=

ITER SAI

Derart literate, souter vies

---

## Page 97

14-00000

PERSONAL MISTORY STATEMENT

INSTRUCTIONS:

WAITE

AuSaid

ALL QUESTIONS COMPLETELY.

GOES

BOT

100

00

HOT

APPLY

RHOw THE

ANSWER 'AND

CATAIN THE

WNITE

"NOT

AFPLICABLE®

ABSTEG TECH PERSONAL

USE

SEFARATE

SMIET

14184

JETAILS

0 M

RECENT -PASSPORT

QUES:ICA

SIRE-PICTUGES

QUESTICHS

RECORDS.

FOR WHICH YOU

SUFFICIENT ROCK.

¡C THIS FOSM.

00

DATE

TANCH WRITTEN

NOT

NAVE

OF EACH.

PRI#T

#RITE CÁREFULLY; ILLEGIBLE OR IRCEXPLETE FORMS WILL NOT RECEIVE

C'a

THE

BACK'

COASIDERATOS

HAVE YOU READ AND UNDEASTOOO THE ABOVE INSTRUCTIONS?

SECTION 1.

'PERSOMAL' BACEENOUID

• MI-SS

TIX5T

MRS.

Will lon

PRESENT ADORESS.

STREET AND MUMBER

TATUELE

Kins

CITY.

LTST

ENTEX STATE

2527.

39tb Street

LEGAL RESIDENCE

STREET AND MUMBER

CITY

Mysville

Sentuas

•WICKHAMES

THER NANES THAT. YOU HAVE USE

None

UNDER MHOT-CIRCUMSTANCES, MAVE YOU EVER USED THESE NEST

IF LEGAL CHANGE, GIVE PARTICULARS WHERE, WHEN AND BY WHAT AUTHORITY)

• Nona

YES EX

NO

TELEPRONE®

CR 2914

COUNTRY

U.S.A

COUNTRY

U.S.A:

HOW TONGE

-None

DATE OF: BIRTH

9/13/15

PRESENT CTYTZENSNTA

US

MATURAL ZATION•

CERTIFICATE

LOCATION OF COURT

MUMBER

PLACE OF BIRTH

CITY

STATE

Denville,

Indlaria

ACUUTRED DY:

BURTLE MARRIA SSUEO MATURALLATiON E OF COURT

COUNYRY

CITY

STATE

COUNTY

PREVIOUS CITIZENSNIP

None

OTHER CITIZENSHIPS (GIVE PARTICULARS)

sone

PEtE FROM

STEPS

TAKEN TO CHARGE PRESENT WATIONALITY (GIVE PARTICULARS)

LAST

0.s

NUMBER

DATE

PLACE OF

CEONe ISSUE

PASSPORT

None

ALL

OTHER

v.s.

PASSPORTS YOU HAVE MAD (GIVE APPROXIMATE DATEST

None

PASSPORTS OF OTHER MATIONS

IF

8ORM

OUTSIDE

u.s

None

DATE OF ARRIVAL IN THIS COUNTRY

"PORT OF ENTRY

PASSPORT OF COUNTRY

LAST U.S.

Y 18A

NUMBER

TYPE

DATE

PLACE OF ISSUE

SECTION

AGE

PHYSICAL DESCRIPTION

HETONT

COMPLEXION

Fair

OTMER DISTINGUISMING FEATURES

WETGHT

185.

TYES

SCARS

"langular scar rt. cheek

Green

HATR

Blonde

QUILO

redium stocky

mistache

pont n0.

08-8

1048

PAGE

---

## Page 98

SECTION 3•

STATUS

DIMRIEN

SIMGLE

NELSON FOR SEPAGATICS :? DIVORCE

SEPARATED CIT

CATE SE SEPARATION.OR DIVORCE PLACE

MOTE:

IF YOU MAVE. MER DIGGIED MORE IMAM INCE USE A SEPAGATE SHEET FOR FORMER WIFE OR MUSBANO ANO GiVE DATA.

REQUIRLO BELCO

FiS aLL PREVIOUS MARRIAGES.

FIRST

HAME OF WIFE

MIDOLE(FOR WIFE, MAIDEN!:.

LAST

PLAGE OF MARRIAGE

Howe

Molntire

DATE OF, NARRIAGE

2020/34

Blocaington.

Indinne

MERLADONESS

SIREE? AND NUMBER

CITY

STATE

COUNTRY

REFORE MARIAngsburg, Kentucky

U. Solo

LIVING

DATE OF ERCEASE

ECAUSE

DECEASED

PRESENT 'OR

STELES AND NUMBER

•CITY

STATE

COUNTRY

LAST ADORESS 2627 J9th Street N.Ho

Washington, Do Go:

•BIRTH

Maintang,

CITY

STATE

U.SoAe

Kentuaty

COUNTRY

CITINSHIP

DATE ACQUIRED

WHERE

USA

•Birth

CITY

STATE

COUNTRY

ACQUIRED

OCCUPATION

LAST EMPLOYER

Housenile

Nor Departnant - MDN - 1912 14

EMPLOYEN'S CA OWN

SIREET-AND NUMBER

BUSINESS

ADDRESS

CITY

STATE

COUNTRY

Pentagon 318g

Washington D. Co

USA

DATE OF

MILITARY

FROM:

BRANCH OF SERVICE

COUNTRY

TO:

OPULA GOVERAMENT SERVICE, W.S. CA FOREIGN (GIVE DETAILS)

Washington, De le

2942-29141

SECTION A.

# 1ME

NAME

C0IZENSMIP

CHILDREM OR CEPENDENTS (INCLUDE PARTIAL DEPENDENTS)

RELATIONSHIP

ESPRESS

STREET AND NUMBER

CITY

RELATIONSHIP

ADDRESS

STREET AND NUMBER

CITY•

RELATIONSWIP

CROSS

STREET iNS NUMBER

CITY

STATE

STATE

STAlE

COUNTRY

COUNTRY

COUNTRY

AGE

AGE

AGE

SECTLEM 5.

PARENTS

MOTE: COR SENEATARR SEENLINER ASS,OR GUEROLADe GIVE. THE SAME INECRMATION AS REQUIRED BELOW.

ON SEPARATE SHEET

MADE UF FATNES

Dramar

&. "Condy)

Harris

DECEASEDI

ARE OF TERROR

7/25/16

PRESIDi LE

DATE OF BIRTH

158

Spinal "eningitle

STREET AND NUMPER

, Tennessea

86.

CiTY

enville

PLACE OF BIRIN

TTY-

Danille

Indiana

STATE

indiana

STATE

CITY

STATE

COUNTRY

U.3.4o

COUNTRY

U. Solo

COUNTRY

USA

JCCUPETICN

Accomay

JITE SITUIRED

Birth

WHERE

ACQUIRED!

LAST EMPLOYER

Self

"SEE" SAD NUMBER

Danville

CITY

Indiana

STATE

COUNTRY

U. Solo

BUSINESS

SECTICA 3.

PARENTS

---

## Page 99

DATE OF

MILITARY SERVICE

Hone

OTHER GOVERNMENT SERVICE.

D.S. OR FOREIGHÍGIVE DETAILS).

Habe

HAME OF NOTHER

FIRST

MAIDEN

Kirs

Last

PRESENT OR

LAST ADDRESS

S07à

DATE OF ETRIN

1530

ETTIZENSNTE

USA

OCCUPATION

STREET. aNS NUMBER

Saite vanter

Street

PLACE OF BIRTH

orville

DATE BENUIRED

Sirth

LAST EH-LOYER

CiTY

Terre suses

STATE

Indlarg

Inirang

WHEKE

CITT

ACQUIRED

STATE-

Bnofessor

EMPLOYER'S OR OWN

TREET AND NUMB

State Ischers colea

BUSINESS

ADDRESS

Eine Faitee

STATE.

Badluna

GOVERAMENT SERVICE, U.S. OR' FOREIGN(GIVE DETAILS)

Nose

FESILON de BROTMERS ANS SISTER LAGURLAG HOSEF STERS 112 1229E2 SEPIJERS AND SISTERS)

None

PRESENT ADDRESS

STREET AND NUMBER

CITY

•STATE

NAME

FIRST

FRESENT ADDRESS

Nono

STREET AND NUMBER

MIDOLE

LAST

CITY

STATE

MAME

FIRST

MIDDLE

LAST

PRESENT ADDRESS

STREET AND NUMBER

CITY

STATE

SECTION

NAME

OF FÄTHER-IN-LAW

CARENTS-1M-LAV

James

DATE OF DECEASE

MIDOLE

Latvin

LAST

¿einiire, Sie

CAUSE

PRESENT OR

LAST ADDRESS

480

DATE OF BIRTH

18F0

CITIZENSHIP

OCCUPATION

Attorney

NAME OF MOTHER-TA-LAW

STROET AND NUMBER

ETTY

STATE

nimet Avenue

PLACE OF BIRTH

Fleniastie dentudiy

CITY

STATE

DATE ACQUIRED

lening Countre Baptisi

Birth

WHERE

"STATE

ACQUIRED

LAST EMPLOYER

Self

FIRST

MAIDEN

DATE OF DECLASE

LAST

Heintire

1942

PRESENT OR

LAST ADDRESS

480

sit.

CATE OF BIRTH

1536

CITIZERSHIP

ОССОРХРТОЙ

Arteris scleroscis

STREE: AND NUMBER

wirel avenue

PERGE OF BIRTH

FlamizE County,

DATE ASSUIRED

sirta

CIT!

Fenicasherse

CIT!

Kertusly

WHERE

CITY

ACQUIRED!

LAST EMPLOYER

STATE

Kentucky

STATE

STATE

Eousewife

COURTAr

•DECESESCI

COURIRY,

U. Sado

COUATOY

COUNTRY

COUNTEY

L. Sado

COUNTRY

COUNTRY

COUNTRY

149

"CEASED I

COUNTRY

LiSA

COUNTRY

COURIRT

DLYLASEODE

coutint

USA

COUSTEY

PAGE 3

---

## Page 100

SECTION 8.

RELATIVES

MOTE:

TROICATE

i0u8164

MAME .

TA TRO

STATES, OR

TRCLATTONSHIP

UNDER THE

TO MOM-CITIZENS.

10'5

•ITIZENSHIP

ADORESS

STHILT AND NUMBEH

REASON FOR LISTING UNDER THIS QUESTION

WAME

STATE

COUNTRY

HONE

CITIZENSMIP

ADDRESS. STREET AND NUMBER

CITY

RELATIONSNIF

STATE

GE

COUNTRY

REASON FOR LISTING UNDER THIS QUESTION

NONE

NAME

TRELATIONSHIP

AGE

CITIZENSHIP

RODRESS STRICT AND NUMBER.

REASON FOR LISTING UNDER THIS QUESTION

CITY

"STATE

COUNTRY

NAME

HOTE: • INDICAIL

SERVICE

DUCATIO STAM 5"OR IDALIENS BY BLOOD OR MANIAGE, IN MILITARY, HAVAL OR OTHER GOVERMMENT

RELATIONSHIP.

MOCITY.

Cousta

COUNTRY

AGE

Dalent

•Earrey

СПІТИТНОНІР

ADURESS STREET AND NUMBER

USA-Birth

"ot know to mo as proscat

TYPE AND LOCATION OF SENTICE (TF KNOWN)

- Colonel - U.S. ArTS/

NAME

COTIZENSHIP

TAGEKESS STRELT ANO NUMBER

RELATIONSHIP

STATE

AGE

COUNTRY

TYPE AND LOCATION. OF SERUTCE CIT KNOWNT

MAME

TRELATIONSNIP

AGE

GITTZINSNIP

TRODRESS STRIFT AND NUMBER

CiTY

STATE

COUNTRY

TYPE AND LOCATION OF SERVICE TTA KNOWS)

SEGTION 9. LOUCALIOS

.CHOOL

Public schoola

ПіНОМ

DATES

TIE NOSO

1921

• Hich School

4 2M

DATES

LITEADED

1928

collisi

Indinon

Unlveraity

¡hUM

DATIS

ATLANDID

193?

COLLEG

TADOR Innville,

"Inlina

"TIT

Tape tauto. Iadlana.

TOTGREE

1.05W 53 1928

"ETY

Terro haute. Indians

-1932

TAUDRESS

"loominiton Inilong

1937

-STATE

COUNTRY

VEA

USA

"TOrCREE

_H.S. Diplom

CHIY

SIATE

COUNTRY

USA

MEGHTE IMB with Distinction

TNOM

DATE!

• $8

SECTION

10. SELECTIVE SERYACE

TANTEESS

10

"CITT

TINUED TO PAGE D)

---

## Page 101

SECTION 10:

SELECTIVE SERVICE

CLASSIFICATION

Hate

ORDER'

:1194

ADDRESS OF BOARD

STREET AND NUMBER

APPRINIMATE

None

CITY

DATE

desen Counts.

Kentucky

STATE

LISA

DEFERRED.: STATE REASON

Yes, 1els-12117 Sancial Arent- SO- US Dontiaf instice

SECT 104. 18. MILITARY,

SERVICE OR OTHER COVERANENT SERVICA - UMITED STATES. OR FOREIGH

SERVICE FROM:

USA:

GRADE

Specirl deat

LAST STATION

inshinston, D.. C.

REMARAS:

PALES.

1/9/O DISCHARGE

1 5/22/47

espass 020-00 at out 000 2 0, 112. 10.

Voluntary Saisation

COMMANDING. OFFICER

BOARD. NUMBER

1 113:

SECTION 12: CHROBOLOGICAL HISTORY OF EMPLOYMENT(USE SODITIONAL SHEET IF NECESSARY)

MOTE: INCLUDE BELOW PERIODS OF

UNEMPLOYMEMT AND

EMPLOYER

R. i. King Constiziction "o.

STREET AND NUMBER

Ihnville,

Indinca

YOUR DUTIES AND SPECIALITY

Construction "orker

DATES

FROM:

COVERED

5/25

REASONS FOR LEAVING

CITY

TO:

9/k5

EMPLOTER

Satur to school

ADDRESS

STREET AND NUMBER

Danville

YOUR DUFTES AND SPEGTALITY

Editoral and Nechnical Work

DATES

COVERED

FROM:

1951

REASONS FOR LEAVING

CITY

_Indians

TO:

1233

Is Enter Unlversity

EMPLOYER

ADDRESS

I-319=3

Knisersity

STREET ADD AUMBER

Bloominston

Indisna

YOUR DUTIES AND SPECIALITY

CITY

DATES

COVERED /Partine 103%

REASONS FOR LEAVING

Tolitary jesiznation

EMPLOTER

1935

CITY

STATE

STATE

STATE

Self

ADDRESS

STREET AND MUMBER

210 Covert Strat

STATE

AND STATE WHAT YOU.

JOB TITLE

Laborer

KIND OF BUSINESS

Fridge

Construction

NAME OF

SUPERVISOR

Se lie Älns

PER

SALARY.

$10

week

JOB TTYLE

Genorter & Erinter

RIND OF BUSINESS

- Newspaper

RAML NE

INVISOR

divin fallen

Faitor

SALARY

PER

$10-915

week

JOB TITLE

Bibliette Writer

RIND OF BUSINESS

See abora

MAME OF SUPERVISOR

Various

SALARY

PER

week

JOB TITLE

Into

IND OF BUSINESS RE

Practica of tat

PAGE

---

## Page 102

SECTION 12: CHOOHGEOGICAL

HISTORY OF EMPLOTENT (CONTINUID FROM PAGE'SI

liege cities doo spectaclir

• Camera Lazil Firellen

TO:

1937

FOR LEAVIN

To enter

2910

-FBL

EMPLOPER

Voloral turan of mootleatlo

Aciditi s

STRICT AND MUMBLE

STAYE.

Department of Jestise Base: Nishinaton, De C.

TOUM DUTIAS' AND SPECIALITY

Counter- Intelligmon

COVERED

1OL2/2/10

TO 8/20147

REASONS FOR LEAVING

Voluntary oil at lor

EMPLOYER

STREET AND NUMBER

CITY

STATE

YOUR OUTIES AND SPECIALITY

•FROM:

10:

DATE"

LOVFPEO

REASON: FOR LEAVING

CAME OF SUFERVISCR

SALARY

192500-12220

PIR

108 TIl Spootal legend A

So Nagar. Boover

ALAD

$3200 $7000

JOB TITLE

KIND OF BUSIESS

NAME OF SUPERYISOR

SALARY

PER

HOTE: IN

SPACE BELOW GIVE

LEFT UNDER

CIRCUMSTANCE CONCH MINE NOT CONEY FROLEN YOU MAY HAYE BLEM DISCHARGED OR SHICH YOU

DETAIL'S:

Abaolutely Song

SECTION 13. CHARACTER,

REFERENCES.

THE UNITED STATES

7009755

ERIC ME MONES MORESS MARPOSESTATE

D. T. Foroll

NAME

ADORE SS

DATS PLEAD NUMBER.

RAVENT

Do Fe brella Alty

ЧАМЕ

SEES NO EL A NUMBER Fra Date

Jo Ho Finch, Fre

HAME"

{alfasa

FEATE

TADDRESS

STREE

AD NUMBER

inter of Police FD

RODRESS STRELT AND WUNBER

Hern 220e

I boZelgior, Atty.

Hayovilla

SECTION LAL SOCIAL ACQUALNTENCES-FIVE IN THE BOTROSS STRELS YE

ADDRESS

'VE ANSINESS ACPRESS MISRE POSSIBLE STATE

$ C.I.Q.

NAME

Astther Moralre

НДМЕ

Jo to Beanot, It. Col.

MbltB00

MAMF :

ADDRESS

STATTT AND MEMBER

Achington, D. Go STATE

U.S.

ourt

ADDRESS

STREET AND NUMBER -

liaah laston, Do S

STATE

Andrea Melde

Mary lead

ADORESS

STRIET AND NUMPER .

CITY

Hoom 17.34

ЗАТЕ

ADDRESS

STREET AND AIMSER

Dept of Justloo Kronineton, D. C.

SECTION 15.

TED STATES ¡AT YOUR LAST NORMAL ADDRESS

---

## Page 103

SECTIS IN. HELOMBORS-

Bich r1 Froar

# John Holberg

Richard Gallahor

SECTICH 18. MISCELLAMEOUS

DID: YOU EVER HAVE

OR. DO YOU 1470

OUR CONSTITITITAL

MEMBEASHIP

8070-DF

ARSHER IS "YES"

EXPLAIN #E: 30

REAL SEES LAST WAN

2527: 3960 St. N.2:

2029 39th St. 1.16

STREET AND MUMEER

2529.394 58. NoX:

OR SUPPET ANY.

POLITICAL PARTY

IN THE UNITEO STATES!

vanbinaton, D. C.

STATE

Machinston, De &

ORCANIZATION WHICH CONTES:

DO YOU USE, UR NAVE YOU LSES DOTERICANTS?

la Koderiat14a

MA SO. SEYER BME OR COURT CS- STATE FRUNTEY, NETURE OF OPENCE. ARO ONSPOSITION OF CASE.

VIOLATION OF LAW OTHER-THAN A MINOR TASFFIC VIOLATIONE

RO

HAVE YOU EVER BEEN COURTH RT-ED WHILE A MEMBER-OF THE ARMED FORCEST

IF ANSARE IS "YES".

GIVE DETATIE SELOW:

YES

NO E

SECTION 1Y. FINANCIAL BACKERTUAE

BRE YOU ENTIRELY DEPENDENT ON ADIR SALARIE TEST MOLEN IF ANSWER IS °80°, STATE SOURCES OF OTMEA INCOME.

RAMES CE SANKS NITH WHICH YOU ARIE SECOURTE

¡ecise dunk of leiss cunty, Memingebura, Kentucie

State jntional bank, Sayoutile, Kentudy (dentrecently clourd)

MAVE YOU EVER BEEN IN BANARATE?

TEST NO IF ANSHER IS "YES". GIVE PARTICULARS:

SECTION 18- CREDIT REFERLICES THIES IN THE LEITED STATES

Peoples Bank of "lendar "ounty

ADDRESS

STREET 140 NUMBER

nealagsting.

(ADDRESS

ADDRESS

NUMBER

"STREET aND NUMBER

bashingson, D. &,

STATE

NAME

do Garfinchal & Co.

SECTION 18.

RESIDENCES FOR PAST 33

3/2942

Late

1R04/2/1902

TO:

3/19÷2

702/1342

CITT

Kentucky

Ten tock!

CITY

STATE

STATE

2021

STREET AND WUMETS

39th St. 1.7.

STATE

COUNTRY

Hahlagton, D. C.

STATE

"stature, PeTRY

198% W6e1n Stret

Abaret, LJ. 1.7.600%.

(CONTINUED TO PAGE 8)

---

## Page 104

SECTION 19. RESIDICES FOR' PAST 15 YEARS

F,90м:

9/1037

FROM:

1933

FROM:

1931

FROM:

:1923

FROM:

1/15:2

TO:

102037

101933

1931

TO:

STHEET AND HUABES

STATE

SOUSTEY

11z?2e

23re 55

STREET AID. NUMBER

CITY.

LES STREET ANO RUMBER SON

2.

Postille

SiNCET AND HUMBER

CITY

208.50

venter 30.

Ferre "autei

ACCRESS ": STREET AND ALMBER

STATE

ESA

STATE"

Ind.

STATE

USA

COUNTRY

STATE

0: AND TR.) 11O:(M0. AM

On SECTiCH

PURPOSE

TROM: (M0, AND TR.) TO: (NO: ANO VR.)

CITY OR SECTION

COUNTRY

PURPOSE

c.".

FROM: (MO. ANG TR. TO: (N0, AND TRJ.

, CITY OR SECT:ON

PURPOSE

FROM: (NO. AND YR. TO: (RO. ANO YR.)

CITY OR SECTION :

COUNTRY

PURPOSE

FRON: (NO. AND YR.) TO: (MO. AND YR.)

CITY OR SECTICH

COUNTRY

PURPUSE

OYE: IN SPACE

BELON LIST HAMES. AND ANCILSSAS UF

ALL DOMESTIC ANO FORETON CLUES, SOCTETTES AND CAGARIZATTONS

OF ALL KINOS TO WHICH YOU NAVE

BELONGED,

0.658

THAN

INCLUDE

RELIGIOUS SOCIETIES.

FOLITICAL PARTUES AND LABOR UNIONS.

ANY ORGANiZATION NAVING

HEACSCARTENS EN A BRANCH IA

& FOPEIGA COUNTRY OF WHICH YOU MAVE BEEN A MEM

BER OR TOWNICH YOU MAVE GIVEN SUPPORT.

NAME

SINCET AND HUMBER

CITY

STATE

• COUNTRY

Stema Chi

HAME

STREET AND HUMBER

5100-15-072

aliana

STATE

ICA

COURIRY

Phi Delta Phi

- 83

MAMENder of Co15

STREET AND I LABER

CITY

STATE

COUNTRY

MAME

§TREET AND NUMBER

Rotary "ntematioral

STREET AND HLMBER

Nat1. ALfie Association

NAME

STRERT AND ELMBER

Bor Scouts of America

MAME

SINEET AND HLMBER

FBI Recreation Association

HAME

STREET AND NUMBER

CITY

Essaille

CITY

Varions

CITY

Various

CITY

Mashiraton, D.

CITY

STATE

iV.

STATE

COUMIRY

LEA

COUNTRY

STATE

COUNTRY

STATE

C.

STATE

COUNTRY

COUNTRY

SECTION 22. LANGUAGES- FOREIGA (STATE DEGRÉE CE RECEICIENCY AS "SLIGM?".

*F110" (R "FLUENT")

LANGUAGE

SPEA8

PERO

WRITE

ferman

LANGUAGE

Stigbt

SPEAK

READ

WRITE

LANGUAGE

(SPEAR

REAS

WRITE

LANGUAGE

READ

WRITE

LANGUAGE

READ

WRITE

LANGUAGE

ESPELE

¡REND

WRITE

LANGUAGE

SPEAR

READ

WRITE

---

## Page 105

SECTION 23.

GENERAL QUALIFICAI

INDICATE AND SPECIAL RBNGIIDGEFR

OR' CAPERIENCE, BRILS DIGA: FIT YOU POR

SET PORTA DOT SUALTA

80589124.

Specialist in counter Intolluence i operatiara, palestie and

_-ovalüstion

ICES AS A RESULT OF TRAINING

SECTION 24. SPORTS AND MOBBIES

FIshing, huntine, firenins

SECTION 25. EMERGENCY ADDRESSEE

NAME

RELATIONSHIP

bors. Elizabeth de Barve

SIMIES AND NUMBFH

2027 39th Straet Ali: inshinaton, D. C

SECTION 26. INFORMATION AMD _FINAL COMMENTS

MOTE TO CHAMOS LO TARD CORRE NESS OF SAISAFE TEST DE HER RINA DESA LESTIGATED, AND YOU ARE INVITED

ARE THERE ANT UNFAIORABLE

SECTION 27.

CERTIFICATION

THATERT IMMINA STEROMEN SOMESSAGE ASTO ANA TORRETACH HE CONSTITUTE GROUNG TO AT RADIATE DISMISSAL.

SIGHED "AT

DATE

City

State

witness

Signsture ar Applicant

PAGE

---

## Page 106

DECHES

37 siguet 1947

ERSONAL HOSPORT STATENKIT ON HELIAN KINO MARVEL

Piacos Darvilla, Dadena

Pather prenan le Harvey

Alrtha ,

Hother d

Faces Denvilto, Initlers.

RELATIVES

ABROAD A

DDUCATIONS

EXPIRIEICE A

Bone

Fley High Schoal, Ferre Hauto, Indtana

Daton:

1928 to 293%

Indiana Univaraity, Dloonagton, Indiana

Datass 1933 to 2937

Damilso Cosetto - senapsper, Danvillo, Irallana

Datess 1931 Be 1923

Indlans Univeralty, Bloonngton, Indlina

•Dates: 1933 to 1937

Practice of Les, Maravilla, Kentualy

Bates t

1937 t

1940-

FaDedan Spacde, Agons

Dates:

1940 t0 August 22, 1947

Muna

MUAL TART O

TRAVELI

MARITAL

STATUS &

Vialted Canada for one month in Saptember 1940 on vocation.

Fobruary 3, 1916

rependenses Bone besides wife

Father dalma Jones Harvin Hointlo, 18.

Birtha. 1380

Mirths 1806

Placed Plening County, Do

Washingion addrese and salephone manbers

Lashing 896, 36 Coo He Tale ORday 2921,

Washington, De Co

Energensy Addra880e

Marge Kisabeth No Bary

2627 - J9ch Step No Fo

Washington, Do Co

Tale Ondey 3914

---

## Page 107

27 August 1947

PERSOUL

PARENTAGE O

PERSOMAL HISTORY STATEHLIT ON WILLIAN: KIND MARVEL

Birthi Soptember 13, 1925

Places Dawvsl8, Indiana

Los Ross Mayuvilla, Kentualy

Father:

Dranan He Harvey

1888

Placo, Danville, Indians

Mother

Sara deval King Harvey

1890

Flooes Danville, Indian

RELATIVE

ABROAD &

EDUCATION:

& PERATCE®

MILITARY ®

TRAVEL!

Home

iley Righ school, Terre Hauto, Indiane

Datens

2928 to 1931

Indtand University, Bloonington, Indiana

Dates:

1939 to 1937

ILe degree

Danville dasatto - Norapapes, Danville, Indians

Latos:

1931 to 1933

Indiam Urivoralty, Bloondagton, Indlana

Dates: 1933 to 1931

Practloe of Inn, Maynville, Kentuaky

Dateas

1937 to 1940

V.Dolos Spocial Agent

Datoss

1940 tO Augur 22, 1947

Kone

Vlaited Conada for one sonth In September 1910 on vication.

MARITAL

STATUS &

Baried tos Ilisabeth Howe Mointire Harvey

Births February 3, 1916

Place&

Heningaburg, Kentuaky

Dapendanta: Nona besides nifo

Father de leis Janes Marvin Hointing 88.

Birth: 1030

Places Flening County, My

Mothere 1070 Mannlo Rosa Holnure - now deceased

Births 1886

Place: flowing County, De

Manhiaston address and celophone numbere

2037 - 394b S8o9 H. W

lashington, do C

Enorgendy Addresssos

Tals ORchay 2921

Ha, Migabeth lo Harvey

2627 - 394h Stog No Wo

Fashington, Do Go

501e ORchay 29111

---

## Page 108

SECRET

27 Angurt 1948

PERSONAL, RUSTORE SPATELENT ON MIZILAN KING HARDER

PERSONAL

PAREHTAOBA

RETATIVES

ABROAD&

EDUCATION:

•B PELICE!

MILY TARY &

TRAVEL !

MARITAL

STATUS •

ith Soptenter 13, 1915

Log Rest Myrtile, Kentio

Places Damie, Indian

Father?

Drapan &. Harvey

Mother&

91888

Places Danville, Indians

Birta:

1890 01 188 arv20001 Denvilio, Indicena

Home.

i1oy Riel Sebool, Ierro Hauto, Indian

Datess 1928 to 1931

Indiana Chivereity, Blocalngton, Indiana

Datoes 1933 to 1937

IlB degree

Damille Cesetto - Newspaper, Danvillo, Indlana

Dates: 1931 10 1933

Indlara infrarsity, aloonington, Indlane

Dates: 1933 30 1937

Precios of Lat, Mayaville, Kentuaky.

Dates:

1930 to 1940

P.BeIoy Special Agont

Datos: 2940 to luzuat 22, 1947

Lone

Vialtod Canade for one month 1n Saptember 1940 en vacation.

Birthe Fibruary 3, 1916

Dependants Mone beaidaa #1fe

Father 17-la8 James Marvin Hointire, Sto

Birthe 1380

Places. Plening County, to

asther 1mless Mannio Rose Maintira i nor deceased

Births 1886

Place! Pening County, 1yo

Washington addresa and talephone number!

3627 - 3964 S80, No Mo

wanhington, le Co

Energensy Addroaces:

tre. Elinabeth to Harvey

2627 - 39ch Steg Ho Ho

Hashingtos, Do Co

fels

Ordhaay 2911

•SECRET

---

## Page 109

SEONLY

FIONAL A

if angues I947

PERSONAL RESTORY STANCAST ON WILLIAM KONG PARVEY

sthe supbaiber 13, 19

g Rem Montie, Kentuar

their Deeman Re Here

Birthe

Mothere-

Feel Damille, Indian

Places Danvilto, Intions

RITATIVE

ABROAD •

EDUCATIONA

Home

112ay High Sohool, Terro Hiuto, Indian

Datess 1928 to 1931

Indians Univalty, sloongton, Indiana

Datans: 2933 to 1937

11D degris

nonville Camotto - Ismpoper, Darillo, Intana

Datans: 1931 10 1933

Indians Inversity, Bloodagton, Indlana

Detoat 1933 80 1931

Praction a la, Mayorilla, Lentualy

Dates: 1937 to 1940

Polelon Specdel Agail

Dates:

LID to sugust 22, 19L?

Rong

TRAVEL!

MARITA!

STATUS &

Vialted Canda for one month in septomber 1940 on vanation.

Dith? Fobruary 3 1910

Dopanconta: Nona besidsa site

father do La, James Harrin Kointiso, 55o

Blath: 1880

P2A008

Fleeing Countr, to

Motherin lans Hannde Rong Maintirg nor decenned

Births 2086

Place? Mowing County, 1o

Washington adires and telephone minbars

307 = J96h S80, Ro He

Wanhington, A, Co

Tole ORding 2911

Drosgensy Addasusee :

8g, Fisabath i, Harvey

2627 - 39ch Stog Me Wo

Mashtagton, Do Go.

Tels ondury 200,

SECRET

---

## Page 110

CONFIDENTIAL

SSCUSITY OFFICE

Intestigation Report

•CONFIDENTIAL

Date:. Ostober 8, 1947

Number: 33814

To:

CPo

(e).

1. Investigation directed-by:

-HEC

Sources-of Information: 080

2.

3. Remarks

Recommendation:

FOURITE APPROVAL

RECTAMENDED. THONCH SURJECT

INFORAA".ON AT COME

•dE DATE.

INTERVIED WAIVED.

SOS THE ADDI ICANT E•S UPON DUTY HITHIN

WAYS THUA ANUVE DATE. THIS APPROVAL BECOMEB

INVALID.

By

ROBERE KA CUNINCHAN

• CC%

Judson 'H. Lightsey

CONFIDENTIAL

CONTiNI

187949

aB - 10%

DEC SBA*

---

## Page 111

Res

11911àn KJng Harvey

on this

agoncy.

A

conplete end thoroich: Investigation has becn conducted

employee and he was found suitable for employment in this

........

---

## Page 112

SECRET:

SECURITY- INFORMATION

TO

FROM

SUBJECT

Chief, Communfeations

Chief, Security Division

Bassy, bulles tine

323h

DATE, 8 Anguet 1952

In reply to your memorandun this 1e to advise that subject meets

the current requirements for cryptographic clearance and le approved, for

such duties as of this date.

C.P. Sirs

g. Po Geisa: Ma

SECRET

---

## Page 113

F79.9

,s=..

Personal i And Ageny Malish

---

