# 104-10188-10042

## Page 1

104-10188-10042

DISPATCH

PROCESSING

SECRE!

15545

WEIT 1:0 1960 11996

Chlef, Wil Division

DESENSITIZED

Ber ESM 43-4J

Chilet o. Statlon, Mexico. City

LIFEAT Progress Report/February and March 1953

CTE REQUIRED REFERENCES

AP 1lCT-

78.4

Rof: HMM;-20873

PS

1. The following report is submitred In accordance wish CSFHE-P

52-6-1, Section V, paragraph 2(4 (1).:•

DES NFD

FI---

A. EXPLOITATION OF LEADS

1) LIFEAT/SOvie LIFEAT continueú lo provide daily coverage of the

horne phone of Sovlec Intelligence offleer. Alcksandr G, SIDOROV in order to

both provide Information on the contacts ue SIDOROV ald to support the

MÉCHARITY-20 opera:loa by providing Information on the dally routine of

the SIDOROV fa nily and mald. Overage of a second Sovie: Intelligence

officer, Svyaroslar F. KUZNEISOV, was reinacalled in March in order to

support the Station officer conduciug the LISTERD operarior

In addition, LIFEAT utderrook coverage of a suspected one

time Sorlal support agent.

LIFEAT product le valuable in developing basie

Informa lo. ou thils target which would o:herwise be difitcult il no: Impoistble

so obta in.

2) LIFEAT/PolIsh

As in the pas: LIFEAT continued to provida Informatiol

ou the dally activitles and contacis of the Polisà Embassy personel la Mesico

3) LIFEAT/Yugoslar In addition co reporting on the cally acilvitles and

contacts of the Yugoslav vificial Insallation LIFEAT providíl informailos on

the planned accendance at JMSAlL. conterence of two Yugoslas diplomats who

are suspected intelligence officers. LIFEAT also providal intormarlon pre-

dicting the promo:ton of l'ugoslar ferican trade as a resuli of the Mexican

President's visttro@B1984ect.iou

CS Classification:

(Continued)

12 Ap: 1963

RECORD; COPY

SECRET

Il Apr 19,3

HNMI:-31080

HEAOQUARTIES II M, NIELA

50- fo SaiS

---

## Page 2

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

SECREI

HMNLA21080

1) LIFEAT/Czechoslavakian LIFEAT Ig coverlng the home- viewo

Czechoslavaklan Intelligence officers in hopca of gaining operational leads

for the Interested Station officer.

5) LIFEAT/Cuba.

LIFEAT covcrage of three lines in support of the

AMSTRUT operation coatinues to give an

"essuntlal" shock on this uparatto:

as well as providing by produer Information o. condilois in PBRUMEN.

Coples of the processed tale from these lies are forwarded nice a weck

tO WAVE, LIFEAT provides coverage of AMSTEll, of great Inurest to

the Station's JNGIN officer, and prior to AMSTET-l's return to Mcxico

provided coverage of the home oe a Cuban offlelal formerly stationed In

Mexico Cly.

6) LIFEAT/Exile In chis area the coverage of ESLARD 1 plus chree

relatcu lines was the single major offort by LIFEAT during the reporting

period. This coverage incluted a week of "llve monitoring" of these lines

prior to ESLARD-l's departure from Mexico.

The Station otficers Interesied

In this case described LIFEAT coverage as "excellent and sustalned with

many operational leads".

LIFEAT coverage of a Costa Rican Communis: living in Mexico,

contains an unusual number of leads for use by the

Interested Station Case Officer.

7) LIFEAT/American Communists Coverage of targets in this area Is

of primary interest to ODEVVY. According to local ODENVY, travel and

contacts of the ACGM provided from the LIFEAT coverage is of paricular

and continuing Interest to :hem.

138 530

8) LIFEAT/Miscellaneols LIFEAT is covering a former SMOTH agent

wilo ls of Interes: to KUBARK for possibly compr mising loth SMOTH and

KUBARK operations. The lead to ihts Individual and reques: for LIFEAT

coverage originated from Headquarters, Also LIFEAT, In connection with

LIEMERACE, provided lengthy coverage of Fracisco WALTZ. Ollvera as a

result of a lead from the Stario:i's LIJENNET operacion, This lead ralsed the

possibility that WALTZ could have been a source of U.S. air navigatlonal

ma crials for the Sovlets.

Coverage of WALTZ, however, tends to confirm

His 10-Involvemmeit with the Sovlets, at leas: daring the period of LIEMBRACE-

LIFEAT coverage.

B. PROCESSING OF TAKE

Karen C. UTTLECKY was added o. an avallability basis so the processor

translator staff of LIFEAT. However, her primary durtes continue io be that

of part time cranslator oé general Siation maerials. No oher changes have

taken place.

C. LIAISON

No shange from tha: reported in reference.

D. SECURITY

During the reporting periat, it has becoine increasingly difficuit for

LIFEAT to opera e in a number vareas in Mexico Cuty tor to reasons:

1) the increasing efficlency of the telephone company (Teletonos du Musico)

in both modernizing their telephone cable system and keoping crack o. theia

lally perso.mel assigamcats

LIFEAT

aid 2) the assigument by the Secretaria

de Communicaciones y Obras Publicas (SCO?) of special crews to check all

S1Z0 3120A AND S: NE

SSCRET

TWO

---

## Page 3

CONTINUATION OF.

DISPATCH.

SECRET!

HIMM.A-21030

elephone ronpany distributon boxes for "spire pairs" which could be used

to provide servico ro Mexico Cly residents now wichou: telephones.

It is

these "spare pairs" which LIFEAT utillzes for the routing of les tap lines to

th' iusehouses, LIFEAT personnei have succeeled in developing vartailons

• on choir regular tap procedure witch it Is boliered will help negate the effecis

of the dangers died above. Furthor refinemon:s of LIFEAT operating merhods

are presently being coisidered, and will be implemented as necessary.

E. TECHNICAL

No change from that reported in reference.

The combined coverage for the two months of this report totaled 24

separa:e lines (16 in February and 23 in Marcil), Corcrage by target was

1. Aleksandr G. SIDOROV

Sryaroslav F. KUZNETSOV

3.

Suspected Soviet support ayent

* and 5. Pollsh Embassy

6., 7. and 3. Yugoslav Embasiy

9., 10. and 11. AMSTRUT Operailon

12.

AMSTET -1

13.

Albert/ Murgare: MALTZ

Charles/Bertha SMALL aka SMOLIKOFF

17., 18., 19, and 20, ESLARD-1 and related lines

Francisco WALTZ Ollvera

22. Former SMOTH agent of interest to Headquarters

23. and 24. Homes oí iwo Czech intelligence offlcers

2. Diring the reporting perlod a number of memoranda were prepared

by the Station for passing to local ODACID und ODENVY based in whole or in

pare on LIFEAT provided maural,. The following HMMs were provided as

a by produce of the LIFEAT operation.

HMM *106

HMM 7145

HMM 7160

Dis: rUbutlo::

2 - Files

15536

D1J8T3E4

AAD SE

CLASSIFICATON

SECRETA

52. -6-32/300

THREE

---

