# 104-10266-10019

## Page 1

104-10266-10019

SECRET

PERSONAL RECORD QUESTIONNAIRE

PART 11 - OPERATIONAL INFORMATION

PRO nO.

INSTEUCTIONS TO CASE OFFICER

an os approprante inthority on the boers al the beat prailable la

• Il oddatasonl inace sepuirie

CRYPTOATH

LICOC:Y-1

SECTION I

Force H. PLETIC

CONTACT AND CEVELOPREET

on 30 Jure 1961 at her acartrent by Clyde K. Sit 3, ine latter, no selt tria:

Station In late June 1963, continued to handle her untll his caperue.

Subject could be turned over quickly to any responsible case officer for handling

The present case officer, Lee R. INTEGRANE, arees with the statements rede in

paragrasa: 5 of H1u9800, 6 June Igal, rearing her notivatior, bed for strona

direction and guidance, etc. Case offlors selected to handle bez, it 13 believed,

should be experiences, and should not be any younger than she.

Stilect is undoubtedl:

the crusading type, to rust have a "'cause" to #ork for, therefore, notivation along

the grocer lines 1s ivortant 1f' she 1s to be kept on targets ci interest to Leik.

Fequire ents Just-be specific, and guldance, sonetimes in a fim bit polite samer,

zust frequently be Eiren her.

•1BT ETHER CASE DEFICERS AND NAVE MANDLED SU

ACHS ON MAS CRONY. GIVE NAMES MY WHICH THEY MATE

CLUde K. SENYUCK - Jon as Bill MArcy (from June 1961 to June 1953).

Dolcres R. CASSETTS - known as shirleye

G. MOCHOHUS - 11on as Janet (presently acting as alternate contact).

Subject in early July 1963).

8-80

1050a

ENCEALE

#+1 3149-22258

A CERY

SECRET

+368-7785981

18-808

---

## Page 2

0l

SECRET

NCTIVATION ANS SCATTOL

S:00229-9 195104815n. (De deldllas, al possedle

evIdeDEo. Do 1os

Subjest 1s erotionally vacillatine, and, nence, cossibly suscestible to lettie

Indoctrinetin. It is telieved tost any stron, personality, particularly should sher

develos encional Involverent, couid Indoctrinate her, possibly, adversely. Se reed

a "cause", and her kaZA work provides one, at least for the time being..

(over)

WHAT COANOOL, AF ANY, ENISTS DUER THE SUADI

1o

She.1s Inanclally. dependent.on. KU31

this. t1.

2.

subject would be reluctant do anythi

her I7+ to trel

She obrously enjoys KUBAPK clandest

thon and bould be reluctant to elve!

SECTION

CODIN USED OY DIJICE NO CASE CEFICEN IN THEIR MEEI

Subject and case offiner could eesily be

meetings are held clandestinely, at yar

Feetings tere place about taloe medly.

COVER USTO OY SiIICT IN OSTAINING NIS INFONATIONs

In sore ceses, sucin as Juan Jose fEEVALC

has worked win hit. fer informents,

#. ENDICATE SERVITA FIA MICH SCBECT INES NE FRANA :

Subject 1s unicustedly arare that she 15

the name nor is she inquisitive about st

SECTION IV

INTELLIGESCE COMA

heed

completa

Protestian?

VES

AXPLAIN SUBJECT-S ESONE DAIT ON FRESENT COUMECTICO "

SUOI CONNECTION E$ ASOM DREAM".

she 1s not icon to have had, nor dees she non have eny compections with any non-

PBERTE Intelligence service.

LIST O HEA INDIMIDUALS (HARIS, COlOlÍDeS, PRiGOdE)-Io NNOS D5-ILOJICI'S POLSENT iSTILEIENCE ACTANITIES.

It 1s not bezferad:that any others inon of Subject's intelligence activitles;

aithoush

LIMLUG‹-1, ilia whou sne hes lived and is t1l1 in contact with, ray nell suspect nat

she 19 comested in sere, way with PPRIE intellirence. She has also been accused ere

at least sussected of worlding with PSPlis Intelligence by the Cubans and other 15d1v1

duals fron tre to tire.

ibe accusations, none of which occured-in recent nonths, do

$. ESPLAIN ANY TRAIDIRE SUBIECY WAS HAD IN CLANDESTINE OPERATIONS SOR tO heVE adversely allected her

access to intorretion.

Hone honore to the writer, except "an-the-job" training elven by her case arMicers.

SECTIOU Y

CILLABORATION POTENTIAL

RISOCIATIONI. CAPLAI.

certe e a Forte re de tor forca e era ne era o erode

sore "cause", It is possibli, the siter belleves, that should the intemational

another power.

consider to be adverse circunstances..

SECRET

---

## Page 3

14-00000

ContInued

Section II., 1.

2:

She undoubtedly 1s patriotic but disagrees strongly with certain PSPRLE policies.

She 15, at the time being at least, alnost completely dependent on te Muzarlo.

salary paid ber.

---

## Page 4

SECRET

OPERATIONM. USE - CONTACT

SUBJIES MAS DECE USED DO CONTACRES MIORE, INDICATE ACTIONIS SO ENICE OR GAS 1068S6O AND PE BEGE 0E 14500.

MATION HE GAB FUNGIBHID.

It 1s not believed that Subject was ever contacted by KUBAFK or, on behalf of

KUSAK: prior to June 1900.

she octains information from a varlety of

persons, mostly. Queteralan, "icararuan and other Central Americans sno are exiled and/

or terporarily living In Gueterala. She also obtains sore infotation from lertist

Hesdeans with whom sie has become aquainted since her arrival in "exco. She elicits

Interation, isuelly taroush social contacte

DO 10015AT6 PIAFMAS'BEL IDLO SUBILES AS TO THE DISPOSITIGN ON INFORMATION ME FURSISNES.

she has been told a er inforation, shen appropriate and or surricient talie, is

sent to prefer use there, also, that It Is used locally. to assist in the

evalvetlen of the local and Central frerican polisical situation

DETAIL SUBJECIOS! PROPOSED EI ON CO

THEE USE ON DUTIES.

Subject all be riven 31 duties orly, no

Py cutles are canterylated for her. She has provided sore information of CI interest

on several persons of interest to the Station. lizarily, her dutles are to collect...

Intellirence inforation Man persons of interest to KubAk no are known to her throud

direct social contact.. Ms audial, ai un ina Infantate poo mattagar, althousa to

AUE 1953 she did, on the Station's instructions, assess and develop

'er recruitrent. She made the recrultment, eiter shten the new agent

was

turned over to apother person for handline

B. DETAIL

HOPOSEO PA-FA TIPE USE OR DUTIES.

i None

will bengliven

..her.

24

2.4

LIAISONOR OPEBATIQNAL

A4629378

JUBILET'S RADASSO LARSON NEE SENTECT OR SUGRATINA MESA

SUBJECT. 85

A SPRICIAL MEMORA OR: " CORCION -COVERANDATE

Not apolicable

B. INCHE SUBJECT IS AN OFFICIAL MENDER 0E

Not applicable

SECTION VIDA

AGENCY RELATIONSHIP MIT SUBJECT

FISHER TO SSS PRATIOASHIP FUM SONGT, I.F, TRAIMES, OPPOSITE NUMBER, BERNERATION, MY ANY!

Subject 1s a contract agent, ihose dutles are to collect

intelli,ence Inforration from persons known to her socially, and to perform whatever

other duties, security. and canabilities persitting, that are assigned her. For her

services, she is pald sUs 250.09 monthlv; this salary was effective I Det. 1962.

arency personnel kroin to her see Section I, 3.

SECRET

4/PV

---

## Page 5

14-00000

JUALIFICATIONS FOR ETALO OPERATICAS

PADIENTE ROSCIDE ABIBITIES, POLÉMIS. DE DUALITICARIOS POSSESSÃO DO S-OIACS MICH COO CONCEINAMO ME ODIVALUN

FOD OTAIA OPCANTIDAS.

Subject 1s an avid reader, and has done sorte newspaper and other uriting. She handles

Spanish well and bas done considerable. translating fron Spanish *s Anglish..

SECTION #

COMMI THEA TS

1$ 1B OROPOSEO TO DAO RUBRICO A MIGURAO SUARY.

INDICATO THE DERRO ANJUNT, IN PARIANY DO DE UASE 1O INCHANGE

CONTODITIES, SUBSIDY DE OTOLO METODO, SPrEIdo aNa GINe pRIAILS.

Subject 15 paid f'E 250.00 montaly, from inich Incone tax deductions are rade. Ne

exchange comoditles, subsidies or payments of other kinds are tede to her. Sae may,

however, be fiven a bonus paiment for a particularly outstanding lob.

a Man mart, No cognitents, except as explained herein, tate been made to her.

nor atll' any be rede vithout fradcuarters approval.

has not' been nentioned, either by her or by the Station.: In the event, evacuation here

necessary, the station would do what it could under the circurstarices, but it has made

no promises in this recara, nor s1ll 1t nake any. As a ESPRULE citizen, she can count

on the usual arcraction afforied such cereors.

SECTION

CE ANE SECURITY

The Station has checked all local PaPIla arencies and no deroceory informacion nas

revealed. All desmatory internation knoin to the seation, sucs as her involteren

1 with LINucf1 and ether Comunists, and her involve ent with Join Pettle, 13 knos

to feedquarters. Suspicions by the Cubans, nentioned earlier in chis dispatci, are als

well documented at Headouarters

#DUCETE OTUIR AL STIGATIVE ALASLDES PAREA TO VERIES DOCAPHICH ISOLARI DE FANANdO DY. SUBSECI.

Subject 1s a PSPPPE citizen.. This and other case oficer, eccoring to the mles an

cocients, haver seen zany letters addressed to her, etc., No fiches vertifleation.

conversations with Clide K. STrOCk, have examined ber passport and other perzons:

oi biograchic

Inforation 15 moersary at this time..

NETNIA +9 024. 98000510941

POA, which accorine to INS-11425, & HTW-l1932, exoired on ascroved, but explired 8

PERTSUAIS CHORACTEA, DELJABILITY ABO SECURITY, ESTIVE EDIDASCE INERE POSSIBE.

Septo: 1963.

1o. Character:: Subject does not select her friends and requatmances; elther, com the

mora or politieal ideolo cal coit of view, very carefully. Se is promiscuos,

probably partly due to a deep interiority comples, borever, no security indiscretions

are inown to have developed out cf any of these relationshlos.

her inforation has proven rellable, althouch she soretilmes tends to rir org

confuse osinion kith facts.

на (099072)

B. ESPLAIA ANT SITUATIOR

O INDISCHETION IN ENDOA SUBJICS MAT HAVE PES INVOLUIO MICA MUST DE EVALUATRO MESMA

CA/OPERATIONAL SECUBITY BUENTO!

to indiscretion not known already to Headuarters can be cited here. She vas :

Intiaate with LItiCouhtle the latter vas in jerdco, and probetly will do the same

again when he retumS. Accorina to-fettie, she was Intinate with him, althoush she

18 not (accordins to her) "seein," him anore, expest socialla and with othera

present

Sublect drinis socially, but 1s not belleved to drink excessively. Lilkenise, she 1s

not belleved to use druss of any lind, excert for redicinal purroses and iithin

• not gamble. Paraaurs have been covered elsenhere in this fort

SECRET

---

## Page 6

Section XI, 5.

Security: she as proven to be reasonably securaty conscious, crever, hei

ntirate relationshis with LIlLUC., with John Pettle, and possibla bich other.

constitute potentia: security hazards. She is descreet in her phore conversations

with the case officer, and in the rechanics of making meetings. She sometimes turns

dom reting places suggested by tie case oficer, saging that some of her.

acquaintances visit the place or tse area suggested, or that Soviet end/or Satellite

personal are bellered to visit the place or area.

the greatest po ential security

hazard, the writer belleves, is the tipe of situation, eexual end/or enctional

Involvement, which she night allew herself to become involved In,

section XI, 6.

ol

2. In an éffort to pave the way for LINLUCKys retum to Mexico, she has:

Interesced with various lesican Covernment officials,

and caused certain

press articles in his defense to be rublished. This activity, horever, ma:

carried on with the knowledge and approval of KUBASK persomele She provided

copies of letters citten, and received fro=(LINUCK, clippings, fros the press,

and surarles of her conversations aith l'exican Governnent personnel.

3/PV

---

## Page 7

SECRET

BECTION X0I0

AYGCATIONAL BUTLEESS

INDICATA SUBIECT-S MOBBIES ON INTEDESE IN SPI0TS, HUBIE, ETE.

Subject reads extensively, both fiction and non-iction. Except swiminr, she does

not actively tare pert in other sports.

She has sore than the codinary persoin's

Interest in art and ruste. She enjors translati--, and Ilkes to urite.

SECTION XIV

INDICATE DUE THED

DE A COUSTON DO BEG:DO OTNER POdA

#SOGEL"1 ALA OTNER CHARACTEDISTIES, ARE SUEM AS ME COLLO

Secause of languare and physical appearance, she could probably not pass as a native

of any other cantry.

Part I was supplied by Subject.

Infermation in this Part II is based, to a lirited

extent, on the inforration contained in IilA-19722 (old Part. II), in the present

case officer's assessent (althouch it should be noted that he has handled her ?or

only tio ronths), and on research of the pertinent Station files.

BOURIRE ACTION IS BEQUIRED. " ANO BUEN TERMIMATION DE SUBEST "'

No nore than routine action would be required when and 1f it is decided to terminate

SECTION KY

EMERGENCY CONDITIONS RECCHTACT AERANGEMENTS '

GIVE FULL DETAILS

.E.

RECOEAITISA SICHALS, SINI DUERE COULO COSACT BE MADES MIAT OST'IDES COULO INDINIDUAL

MAKING CATACT USER

Subject's address, telephone nurber, and a current photograta are on.

fIle in the Staior.. Should energenci contact be recessary,. the person contactime ber;

elther by phone or in person, should sention, to estahlish bona Mies, that fate zam

sent hit This neme has been giver to her for that ouroose. Circustances per letina,

the true nave of the present case Officer could be used. No recomition simals, other

than mentloned above, have been estatlished, but this can be done' should the need ariss

or aDear iminent.

SECTION XV8

MISCELLAIEOUS CPERATIONAL CATA MID REMARKS " 'YE

Io the extent possible, Sublect should be questioned frequently idth repard lo her

contacts and acquaintences, necessarily for operasional reasons, but also to assist

her in abciding potential pitfalls.

Guidance nus: be positive and siven vita!

erphasis inen necessary. She should definitely not be riven any more information tha

Is absolutely necessary for her to accerplish the tasks assimed her. Furtherore, 2

stated elsenhere, case officers selected to handle should be nature, and emerienced

and should not be younder than she.

It is belleved that. an esperienced female case

officer of her approdinate ase could do as nell, 1f not better, than a nale case

officer.

DATE

Vo Odie 1943

ENCE:++ 41899-22258

Vei l chin

SECRES COPY 561-278841

---

