# 104-10167-10386

## Page 1

104-10167-10386°

SECRET / RA BAY

ROUTING. AND RECORD SHEET

1AGTR-07595

#Fe.

FEE 50

2e Verona

PRIOR TO FILING

4. Fill in Sect.

2. 00

back. Detach back

flap and formard to RID.

2. Degtroy front corer sheet, teless

it

records signiticant action taxes or

consents sequiring preseryat.o..

FROM:

TO: ACTION BRANCH

I? file so, and title showa aje sot

p=-pe:, issert proper file no.

below

a lorrard docutest to RID/AN:

FACPIA FiLE 100.

RID/

TO: ALL ADDRESSEES

FILL IN SECTION 1 0% EACK. IF AFFROSRIATE

COMMENTS

TC./4 PEGISTEY.

TO

ROOM

1.

TE./4 PEGISTRY

DATE

ESETEY SOTASEDES

13 JUL 1561

COPY DETACHED

2.

5.

&H/LIPA

mat. $

311V

WHl4/FI

13.

WH/y/PA

15.

$6.

TA/4 REGISTRY

17.

RID/FI

TRICE

REQUEST

DATE NICROFILMED

i sonnetian their

FILE TITLE

ABSTRACT

INDEE

211 126435

/DOCUMENT NUMBER

-9

---

## Page 2

DISPATCH

Coief, iD

INSATA SINSCA NACHO

UFGA-1841

REACOUALIEIS PLE NO

TO

airo

FROM

SATE

Coiet of Base, JAWAVE

JHATE

Relations basweeLS:PLP-1 and Major Robert

None

LEFRENCEN

JuL

3811

ARATED FCR INDEUNG

NO MUSTIG REQURED

FOEONG CAN BE JUDGED

IT QUALFED MQ DESK ONEY

On 23 June 1961 AMOI-87 reported the following information

about relations between AMDIP-1 and Major Robert E. Van Horn,

USAF, Assistant Air ittacne to Cuba assigned to the Miari area:

1. On 2 June 1961 Major Van Rom received a phone call in

bis Miani office.

Miguel GiRCLA, aka Fatty'

, an old

friend of the Air Attache Office

in Havana and now

an official of the FRD in Miani of the AMDIP-1 faction,

was calling Major van Horn ca chalé oi DIRi wa was

standing next to him by the phone.

This is kanwa to

be true because he and GARClA could be overceara waile

GARCIA relayed him the conversation.

2.

GARCLA told Major Van Horn that the purpose of the phone

call was to make an appointent for AMDIP-l to see Van

Horn on that save day. He said AKDIP-l was leaving for

Washington and wanted to discuss with Van Horn certain

i: foruation he had received to the effect that Alberto

ALBERTI, who was accing as miel of the liveracion air

was trying to overtorow the Revolutionary Council

and toat Van Horn had something to do with this too.

Horn told GARCIA to infora AMDIP-1 that de was mistaken

about his baving any part in the alleged ALBERII plot to

overtorow the Council; that de was in contact with

ALBERTI in the capacity. of Assistant Air Attache complying

with nis duties of liaison with tce Cuban pilots in Miami,

and that as far as he knew, ALBERTI was not attempting to

overtnrow the Council. GiRCLi relayed this inforation!

to AMDIP-1, and again told Van dom that A'DIP-I wisned to

he the

15:-

53

3.

Van Horn inforned GARCIA that he was very sorry but be

final preparations for a conference of Air Altacbes and

Mission Chiefs which ne and the Air Attache, Colonel

Stevers; had to attend in Panana the coming Monday (chis

was Friday), and also that A'DIP-l was beyond his

jurisdiction and he had no authority to talk to him:

GARCLA then said

that was too bad, and chat Arbit-l would

be forced to subtit his report to washington wicnout l

discussing the problem with Van Horn.

From a June through & June, Colonel steers and Major

Van Horn were in the Cunal

zone attending the conference:

of Air Attaches and Mission Chiefs co Latin America.

During

the conference

they inad the opportunity to tali with some

of the heads ui the Air Attache Branch ano cold them that

the Branen was very pleased witn

work they were doing

in diari and that they were considering she possibility

USE FEINOUS EDITION

CARCON

TEFLACES MORSAS

PAGE NO

1:..8

---

## Page 3

14-00000

SECRET / RYBAT

- 2-

CONTINUATION UPGA-1&41

of assigning Major Van Horn to the Miami area indefinitely

in view of the results oi the work done by the hir Attacae

Office.

Colonel Stevers was not mentioned because ne is to

retire frur the Air Force as of July 1961. Previous pleas

had been to disband the Air Attache Office in Miami as of

30 June 19ol, so tae possibility of Major Van Hom's indefinite

assignment was a recent develument. The general feeling

was

that toe Air Attacne Branch approved of the work done

and wanted to continue with it. Colonel Stevers and Major

Van Horn returned to Miami on 8 June 1961.

5. On 9 June 1961, Major Van Horn received an urgent poone

call from the Air Actache Branch in Washington asking pin to

report to their office at 9:00 A.M. on 1l June.

They were

very upset because the "House" was demanding Major Van Horn's

appearance before Mr. Goodwin to discuss a serious problem.

They gave Major Van for toe impression that it was consected

with ADIP-l's accusation of a plot to overthrow

toe cumcil.

b.

Major Van Horn left Miami Ior Washington on 1l June, and it is..

understood. by AMOT-8j chat by Wednesday, or Thursday, la June,

a, the latest, Major Van Hora nad already appeared perore

and the persons no were interested in talking to nim. i

however, ne was asked to remain in Washington and make pinseli

available ror consultations on the. Cuban probler for a Les

more days. It is believed that he was returning to Miani

on 23 June.

1. Van Horn pnoned his Miami orrice from Washington to say that

che Air Attache Urrice was breaking up as or 30 June, am

advised the office stafi that they should suspend all

operations until nis return, at which time they would get

the files ready for shipment to Washington.

Distribution:

3-Headquarters

2-Files

7 July 1961

PKT/Lhe

COIT/DHERE

---

