ro4-10182-10009 a
i reas (2-o 7

Cro ene? -. oo

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

TO : Chief /Research 7 23 January 1964
FROM : M, D. STEVENS

SUBJECT: LEE HARVEY OSWALD CASE
(Address Book)

1. Reference.is made to names in OSWALD's address book which
are furnished in an FBI memorandum of 31 December 1963, which lists
portions of the address book found among OSWALD's personal affects at
the time of his arrest in Dallas.

i
'

"Jaggars-Chiles-Stovall
522 Browder
RI 1-5501"

2. The name:

appears on page 21 of the address book and on page 45 the name appears
again as:

"Jaggers-Chiles-Stovall
Topograhy -
522 Browder a
RI 1-5501
Micro dots™

(these names appear on pages 10 and 16 of the FBI report of 31 December
1963).

3. Our Security Indices contain information regarding Jaggars,
Chiles & Stovall, Inc., 522 Browder Street, Dallas, Texas, in a 1958 FBI
report An an Esplonage-R type investigation of John Joseph BITTNER, a cost
account” Clerk, Finance and Account” Department, United States Corpsof
Engineers, Alburquerque, New Mexico, who owned a rooming house in
Alburquerque and who allegedly made contacts with persons associated with
the military services in order to obtain information for espionage purposes.

Document Number 1305 - 472

for FOIA Review on MAR 1977
2 a
c Gael,



4, BITINER’is of interest in the case ot |
#288 608 BSD, who currently holds a covert, Security clearance

permit his use under Project (BOULDER/O/Minneapolis leeipclaiges barmirtead
PH II, and regarding whom Security furnished information to the Chief,

Special Security Clearance Center o8 17 April 1963.
“memorandum of understanding" with CIA on 13 May 1963.
in BITINER's reoming house from.25 May 1958 to 1 duly. 1
which time he mew BITINER socially as well as in his landlord capacity; i
and he was e close friend of BITINER's nephew, Al SCALA, wham he continued !
to see.

5. The firm of Jaggars, Chiles & Stovall, Inc. came into the H
picture because on 11 August 1957 a telephone call was made to the Dallas
telephone number of Jaggars, Chiles & Stovall, Inc. (RI 1-5501) from the
Alburquerque, New Mexico, residence of John Earl SHERMAN and Katherine
SHERMAN, at 1601 Granite, N. W. Katherine SHERMAN was a friend of BITINER
and during 1955/1956 had lived in the rooming house in Alburquerque
which was owned by BITTNER. iJ According to her statements to the FBI in
about December 1958, she left BITINER's rooming house in July 1956; and
inmediately thereafter married John SHERMAN and from that time until
July 1958 saw BITTNER only once. In July. 1958, when she again ran into
BITINER, she was separated from John SHERMAN and began to date BITINER
regularly. She admitted that she had an extremely close relationship
with BITINER and he had visited her at her home at 1601 Granite, N. W.,
AlYburquerque, (from which address the call to Jaggars, Chiles & Stovall,
Inc. was made on 11 August 1957).

6. As of August 1957, Katherine SHERMAN was employed in the
Office of Information Services, Kirtland Air Force Base, where she had
been granted a SECRET clearance on 28 December 1955. Her husband, John
SHERMAN, was employed by Lytle Engineering Company, a firm in Alburquerque,
which was working on contracts for the Armed Forces-in connection with
which he hed access to classified information.

J. On 22 July 1958, Thomas L. JAGGARS, President of Jaggars,
Chiles & Stovall, Inc., made a check of his firm's records and long distance
telephone call registry but said he could find no record of John or Katherine
SHERMAN.

eecdcl


8. Jaggaré, Chiles & Stovall, Inc., 522 Browler Street,
Dallas, is principally a type setting company dealing with matters
involying topography and maps. The firm does (or in 1957 was doing)
confidential work for Chance Vought Air Craft, Dallas, and for other
national defense establishments.

Vine vs Stun,
M.D. STEVENS

wnUiEl,

ceslassitication
