# 104-10185-10108

## Page 1

104-10185-10108

SECRE

S..

MOORI NO.

sair inconio CiCiO Ferrar

DATE DISTA

CsCa-din: 0070:-64

31 aügus: 196÷

NJ. PAGES

3

RESERENCES

C52 05 1634

14d.

:Pance a.

•ashington,

D. C.

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

FELD REPORT NO.

•S LE UNEVANAEO INORMATION. SOURES GIANDES ARE EUTAZVE APPELISAL'OE CENTEN" IS TENTATNE

A former cusin IS Oriscer who served sach the Cubad iniellagurce

Sessice untal april 19üd:

Fesdquerters Contents

The

¿ol=owing roport is one o! a serica containdag: sersonality

Irfc-natios crovided by

scaree jud includes supplereasr:

informatioa iron the records of cais Ageacy..

÷ 's Iccuosted that the sugressues trie no actior o: my o1

tha individuals mentioned in the persocality reports tarbout

first checking with this agercy.

Sourca sas shown a copj of the Yoy newspapor articia

on the Marcos RODRIGUEZ oasd.. In sereoring the sex= ci rhe

antaole ho concented on dotario CAos2O Ferrer, pseudorya

was was one of

the witrossos aù ire irial. Source saiu trui

CIRCaDO wiS a translator for the dogarizone of Iniorizion

So-vices (ST) in the Direccior Genoril de Inteligencia

(General Directorate of Intelilgance - DST).

Souice sided

Iha, CARCErO will probably go co Prague shorily as the

the Doi and Crechoslovakian Securt?y.

1,2,3,₫,5.0,7,3,9,10,11,12

Readquarters ConnorES.

1.

An air passage list revealed List. one AntonIo CARdEDO

Feriur, born

29 Janua:g

1931,

rabana,

Cuba, arrires da

Paris or. 13 Soptembe: 1952, enroute to Prague vis Srussels.

te wis described as a student.

2.

A report cated 9 Decenjer 1952, Eros a usually reisble

source, said that AntonIo CARUSDO, lhe yaung Comuaist.

studeno si the school

oi Aras ard Sciences at the

Univarsisy of Habana, hid recentis returned tros Bicharesi,

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

PIra

MEM?

SEP CIYCLAN

oute: ticil disritusian indicatod ty "''?

NAVY

CINCSO #

1.212

IN'S

: 057

231 3

5

7/ 4/225 2,12/52

18010.

:-318/03731-94

SENTIS "

16 MAR 1965

WH/Si? ild, M8 1 121:

201-- 05033

3A/

---

## Page 2

3

da-deschied Cuban

incarnational chion of studento (its).

rolable sourer, in a roport daied 25 day 1005

irad

cincido, cossibly'luintical with dionad Chicato

sciavo Jurcitio

socialisia Popular (Cuban Cordonin: Fact

DramaalidiJS?) senter.

He

is descrihod is jount. stall

che enjoj's

cossivered in tho incormatise sear de tho ISp loadore:

considerable confidence

swilce,

In a report unles is suly 1955, starcd that

antonio CACaDO was 'an active JSP moabor.

In a 21 Deceaber 1955 report, a usually rollable source gave

che following Information on intonto Francisco CARcaDo ferrer:

CARCEDO KaS. born in Habana, Cuba, on

29 January 1934

to Leocadio CARCEDO Saavedia and ina

Celi& FORRER Geror

racistereos was Calle Faguras No. 370, altos, betheen

Esperanta and Gloria:

CANCEDO was single. and in his

Chira yal din five

jcal course at

the School of

¿griculture at the Undversity of Habara.

He 'has thace

brothers:

Aldo, born about

1941, 1s a studing at the

Cologio Sai sujandro, Habana: Sergio,

born about 1933,

is a student at the Escula du Artos y Oficios, Habana,

aná Leocacio, married to Sonia VALDES y Noa, 1s

s. sechanic

CLALEDO 101d

source that idcologically

he is an entlusiastic

Consinist and is a menbor of Juvenzud Socialista. (Cuban.

Communist Youth Organization

- JSP).

CARCEDO said thar

he has

never belonged to the National Pro-Peace Cummittee:

He studied five years

at the Escuóla de Artes j Oficios:.

in 1932 he atteniod the sturont Contross hold in Bisharest

Ruminda, as

a representative oi the stuients ai, ilial sclool.

6. .

An untested source, in a report daica lu November 1900, uralia

chat Antonio Francisco

CARCEDO Ferrer is one of tit fund mis:

active loaders of the JSP at the University of Habad.

7.

In August 1958, a representative of this Agency showed severa.

sources

a photograph of Antonio CARCEDO Fcries.

Thetaolice

Identified

the

person in the photograph as bein:: the

individual who transited Quato,

Ecundor, da Decenner 1057 and

who scorillied hinself as being Raul. Eloy FERJAYDEZ Saene.

FERNANDEZ Saenz is also known as Raul E.

FERNANDEZ and possibly

is identical with Roberto FERNANDEL, aKa ROberto RIVAS.

SECRET

NO FORCIGY DISSES!

---

## Page 3

JOFiMiGS DiSSaN

- 3=

In &

rpori duled 26 Februirg Hlsdu dt mai regoriod mimt Aa10:áo

CárcEDo, progioly adoxilcai wiih taronld trricisco Chraoo derros.

tiie Cuiin Cununls: Car0y Mt Cader, hae reservarddm don

Mabali cn Lisu0n 0n 27 Febrairy 1959, 1on bisbon T0 isteraa o7

1 .n: 19a9 ná frou Ansirrum 10 Vllmoà 1n 2 Harch :959.

Kis

pagsi,o bad boen

pald inrousd so sluxico.

IThis srave: sas voriitad

by airiine nanhfesus anclusdd with laier roports.)

In & 30 Joia1 1959 report., a isually cellablo source ddoni:fler

10gI92aS

of Raul Eloy FaaVAlDEZ Saonz and Anionio CACEDO

Feirer'

as beung identacal nith the person inowr.

as ROberE RIVAS.

10. On 11 dareh 1960, R lucal Habana nowspapor (naco not givea)

arnounced that Antonio ciresto was nade Sucretaiy of P'opagands

oi she Eirsi Laizn American Touth Congress.

1lo: A usually sollable source, in a ruport dared 6 larch 1961. reporec

Ih2E: AntOaIO CARCEDO Ferrer ias

for the First

Y'o:lh Foaur io be leld tbere an 1a:o

luly or early Algust 196%.

12

Trevcaled the following travel by

CAACEDO: :

Habana to dexico - 1l Apr1l 1961

Mexico =o Santlago

-13 Apral 1901

Sanziago to Xontevided - 24 Apr1l 1961

Monzevideo to Copenhagen - 27 Aprel 1961.

280Tм,

NO

SECRET

FOREIGY

DISSEN

.Vp.

---

