# 104-10110-10176

## Page 1

104-10110-10176

F CONFIDENTIAL

43872

26 November

41969

MEMORANDUM FOR!

SUBJECT

Bädge Office

Request for Agency Identification Card

NAME

DAVID L CHRIST

INCLUSIVE DATA December 1969

PHYSICAL DATA

Age

51

Height

Weight:

Byes

190

Gray.

Brown

CIA Tont: Card 1o. 1546 46-3Ha1r

Dato 1ssued 1r /8: /12

Expiration Date

Date Returned

December 1970

*.

03

Received

Security Officer"

ORD/ DD/S&T

Att:

i ID Card

z/pv

CONFIDENTIAL

GROUP 1

Excladed Son arenate

laing and

del: baldle silan

---

## Page 2

AGACHISIMANTE INICHNAL USE

18 JUL 1978

€"%.

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

FROM:

SUBJECT:

Bruce L. Solie

Chief, Security Analysis Group

CHRIST, David Lamar

#43 872

1.

This memorandum identifies those Office of Security

files which were reviewed by House Select Committee on

Assassinations (HSCA) staff members in conjunction with the

HSCA's investigation into the deaths of President John F.

Kennedy and Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.

Under procedures established with the HSCA, certain

of information were not reviewed by HSCA staff members.

These items vere placed in envelopes, sealed,

appropriately

identified, and put back into the security file prior to

HSCA review. Office of Security personnel reviewing these

files should maintain the integrity of each envelope below

so that interested parties may know what was and was not

reviewed by HSCA staff members.

3.

In some instances, the above files contain material

narked in the lower right-hand corner with a green circular

dot.

This mark should alert Office of Security personnel to

the fact that this material was located and placed in the

file at

the time of the HSCA review and was seen by an HSCA

staffer(s). This material should not be removed from the

: file.

Attached to this memorandum is a review sheet nich..

identifies the name of the HSCA reviewer(s) and the daté of

his review.

5. Questions regarding the above procedure and/or the

HSCA's review should be directed to the Security Analysis

Group•

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1993

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

Bruce L. Solie

Attachment

•ICHBELGACHEEGEEPLE DCECICLEGESGSEULCARTECCECHEGGERCUNNEGONCENCEENENCEREE

ADMINISTRATIVE INTERNAL USE ONLY

---

## Page 3

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF ME

bIRS

€

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME:

43872

INCLUSIVE DATES:

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:

Aus Mie - Tire 1974

OSI SA G

HO'S

ME 15

DELETIONS, IF ANY:

ROOM:

Nerie

DATE

RECEIVED

2/8/78

DATE

RETURNED

2/6/78

REVIEWED BY

SIGNATURE OF

(PRINT NAME)

REVIENING OFFICIAL

DAN HArdwAy

Dan Handwag,

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1993

CHA MISTORICAL REVEW PROGRAN

NO DOCIMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE

---

## Page 4

14-00000

WATERGATE FILE REVIEW FLAG

SUBJECT: CHRIST, David Lamar

FILE NO: C-413872

DATE FLAGGED: 20 June 1974

This file has been reviewed for materials relating to Watergate.

Any necessary reporting has been forwarded through Office of Security

channels to the Office of the Inspector General.

• File Cross Reference - 625000

To Files 21 June 1974

XL. Loos

Officer Reviewing File

DO NOT REMOVE OR DESTROY THIS FLAG WITHOUT THE CONCURRENCE OF THE

DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF SECURITY

---

## Page 5

€

Sofit 8, 19%1

Mr. Robert S. Wattles

Central Intelligence Agency

Washington, D. C. 20505

Dear Mr. Wattles:'

I have reviewed all documentation in my possession or

custody and bereby certify that I have no classified documents

belonging to the Central Intelligence Agency or other classi-

fied material relating to the national defense in my possession

or custody, and that arrangements have been made to have

delivered to the custody of the United States Government any

such material which I may heretofore have retained.

sincerely,

Haved 1. Chest

David L. Christ

AND 2D FOR ELIA LOS

CIA BISTORICAL REVIEW PROCRAM

---

## Page 6

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

BIOGRAPHIC DATA

Suare do not ine ting pratie

CHRiST, David Jamm

18 DEC 1970

NO.

INV 43 872

•2. DATE AND PLACE OF BIRTH

17:10

¿ 20 Jan 18, Tamagua, Fenna.

5. CITIZENSHIP

6. FULL NAME OF SPOUSE. DATE AND PLACE OF BIRTH. CITIZENSHIP:

Christ, Wilma

M. Nee: Zimmerwan

DFOB: Approx. 29

7. OTHER PERTINENT INFORMATION, INCLUDING FULL NAME. CITIZENSHIP DATA CN PARENTS:

B. MILITARY (BRANCH, SERIAL NO.. DATES OF SERVICE: RANK/GRADE)

FROM

EDUCATION

NAME OF SCHOOL

DEGREE OR MAJOR

10.

FROM

Oct 70

Oct 50

FROM

Mey 63

TO

Present

EMPLOYMENT

NAME OF EMPLOYER

Devenco, Inc., Research & Devei.

Div.

Oct 70

3

US Gov't

30. 510 :570

201-788-L44 part 284

201-86634

COMPLETE ADOPESS

TO

Present

6212 Maiden Line, Bethesda, MD

I CONTINUED

COMPLETE ADDRESS

150 Broadway, NYC., 1. 1.

CONTINUED

SONI

SHEUP 1

eclassificatien

CONTINÜED

FOR:A 180A

4-68

USE PREVIOUS

EDITIONS

---

## Page 7

14-00000

UBJECT®

V

SLUKET

(When Filled In)

TRANSMITTAL OF INVESTIGATIVE REPORTS

: Chief, Personnel Security Division

D. I Chist

NAME CHECK RESULTS (See ittachments)

COVERAGE

ATTH: Chief, Clearance Branch

CASE NO

JHP.

4387

TWX REPORT

DEROG.

COMPLETE NAME CHECKS

PARTIAL NAME CHECKS

MILITARY SERVICE

AME CHECKS INCLUDE INVESTIGATIVE REPORTS BY

FIELD RESULTS (See attachments)

CoV. BY

TWX

REPORT

DEROG.

STATUS OF CASE

OTHER MATERIAL PREVIOUSLY FORWARDED

CLOSED

CLOSED PREVIOUSLY

CANCELLED

PENDING

PENDING COVERAGE AND/OR REMARKS

PHS ATTACHED

ATE

FROM: Chief, Investigation Division

42 1230 UsE

Bl Dee 70

EDITIOS

BEORET

• 18

---

## Page 8

mit

043872

ACKNOWLEDGEMENT

I acknowledge my formal designation as an Erneigency

Courier. I have carefully read the above memorandum. I am

familiar with the provisions of Agency regulations and I am fully

aware of my responsibilities as an emergency courier of '

compartmented information. I have been advised this designation

applies only to the Washington Metropolitan Area and all other

requirements to transport compartmented inaterial outside this

arca require prior approval of the Office of Security.

DATE, LE 3U 192E

Placed 1 Christ

Signature

David 1. Christ

Printed Name

Sert

---

