# 104-10215-10127

## Page 1

104-10215-10127

MATERIAL REVIEWED AT CIA HEADQUARTERS BY

HOUSE SELECT CONMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MEMBERS

FILE TITLE/NUNBER/VOLUME:

BARULIN, VALENTIN NASILYEVICH

201- 261813

VOL. IL

INCLUSIVE DATES:

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:

ROOM: -

DELETIONS, IF ANY: TMIRD AGENC/ DOCUNENAS

DATE

RECEIVED

DATE

RETURNED

REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME)

SIGNATURE OF REVIEVING OFFICIAL

NOT FEVIEWED BY HSCA.

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE

---

## Page 2

C

SECR

DO DOCUMENT EXTRACT

THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION CONCERNING THE SUBJECT OF THIS

DOSSIER HAS BEEN EXTRACTED FROM ANOTHER OFFICIAL DO FILE®

PERSONS PERFORMING NAME TRACES ARE CAUTIONED THAT

MENT FROM. WHICH THIS EXTRACT WAS PREPARED CONTAINS ADDITIONAL

INFORMATION PERTAINING TO THE SUBJECT AND SHOULD BE REQUESTED

SAKULIN• V. V

201-0261813

SEX M

CIT USSR

074: 005-102

SX-05555/47

PRORABLY YDEN WITH VALENTIN VASILYEVICH

RAKULIN

8201 - 0261813/

KNOWN GRU*

DATE II NOV 74

09204198

SECRET

201-0261813

E2 IMPDET "CL" BY 054979

---

## Page 3

VALENTIN VASILYEVICH BAKULIN

201-0261613

FORWARDED VIA SBNT-1054÷ 14

MAR

74

0304626/213

CLASSUNICATIOA

dip. C=3

POST SERIAL NO.

RESUED ON

June I, 1970

FOR

M0S-1226--

•VALIO TAROUCA

Unlid. or 1 2; Appl.

REFUSED ON

Sept, 1, 1970

SENCE NO.

REMARKS

FEE PAID. U. 8.18

gratis

LOCAL CY. EGUTVABENT

Беру

APPLICATION POR

NONIAMIORANT

VISA

AND ALIEN

RESTRATION

428TS

1113

CLASSPACITION

POST SEMAL NO. "

C-3 off:

MOS- 3836

1 3 ON ig65 ton

Trug 2": 903

Unled. or ( l Appl.

REFUSED ON

"giv

SERVICE NO

JAPANE ITEM MO.

22

FEE PARD, U. 2. $

Gratis

LOCAL ET. FONYMINT

APPLCATION FOR

NONIMMIGRANT

VISA

AND ALEN

RIGISTRATION

- PHOTO ..

CLASSIICATION

C3 dip.

ASSUED ON

30 SEP 1969

30 D=9 '969

SERACE NO.

22

PEE PARA 81 & 8

Cratis

LOCAL CP. EQUIVALENI

XT

APPLICATION FOR

NONIMAGeANT

VISA

AND ALEN

• RAISTRATION

NOS-1655 in

Unise, er (I Appl.

REFUSED CIN

Baks

POGT SEMAL NO. -

N05-650

- 3 dip.

ISSUED ON

30 SEP 1969

Unled or (JU Appl

WEFUSED ON

30 DFC 1969

BERVICE NO.

22

LOCAL CT. EQUIVALENT

APPLICATION POR

HONIMMISKANT

WISA

AND AUIN.

RROISTRATION

«Bukulin

---

## Page 4

VALENTIN VASILYEVICH BAKULIN

202-0261813

MAR 74

FORWARDED VIA SBMT-1054, 14. 88

01-026/813

FAMQY MARE

BAKULIN, VLadimir Valentinövich-

mom 100801

"ASSEONE OF BATH

MAI#

EYES

TRAVEL DOCUMENT

Sov.dip.ppt#030710%

188 May 19, 1970

AO.

3Ô Jan. 2954

COMPIENION

white

1One

38945E VALeNtINO AND PURPOSE OF STAY IN U.S.

BAKULIN

Figet

Secretar

In transit to and from Mexoo

Waived

notes

Richard

Combs, Jr.

Earl of the Malt slates: of America

5084 FS -259

21 1970

(0990)

FAMART MAME

GIVEN FAME

BAKULIN, Vladinds Valentinovich

HOME ADDeISS

PLACE AND DATE OF BIRTH

1090"

MAN

AVES

HEIGHT

ARARITAL

STATUS

DaDs

D"Do

SEX

DIA

OCCUPATION

I dee lare

2966

Sergeyev

on foR. 4a1AA

BAKULIN, Serend Sec

wait

Robert L. Barry

all ol ina untas states ol america

FORM FS-257

PANAY MANE

GIVEN NAME

BAKUL INA,

Vera Ivanovna

NOME ADELESS

Moscow

PLACT AND DATE OF MIN

MOSCOW

MOON MA SAT POPC. F028233, 4

•1s. June 27,

1967

Blond

STATUS

DAY

WEAR

COMPLEMION

27 Septa 1927

HEIGHT

MANCNALITY

164em

asortet

DOne

OCCUPATION

ENGÍH A, JO PUIOSE OF SPAY I U. S.

Wife

of Valentin Vasillyevich

In transit to

Medco

Piers

Haired 1969

Robie M

Palmer

Cursal si the Valed States of Amerka FORMFS-257 A

AMILY MAA

BAKULIN,

Valentin Vasilyesen

TRAVEL

=n-11ma

MGM ADORIS

Moscow

PEACE AND DATE ON BIRTH

MOSCOW

Brun

PaN 1780

SEX

OCCUPATION

MARITAL

STATUS

thAT

та

WEAt

9 Feb. 1925

NARCNALITY

moylet

WEENS!

nina

LENGIE AND PLEPOSE OF STAY IN U. S

In transit

DwD.

m Mendea

• pant ed untry

bater me

Waived

Robie M. Palmer:

ist ut the Unilad Sister ed America

5°RH FS-257

---

## Page 5

FBI DOCUMENTS

LANDING CARDS

DATE: 19 NOVENBER 1970

CLASSIFICATION: NONE GIVEN

SUBJECT: BAKOULINE, VALENTIN

BAKOULINA, VERA IVANOVNA

---

## Page 6

TOs

DEPARTMENT OF STATE

- REQUEST FOR BIOGRAPHIC D

FROM

CIA

FULL NAME (Mriod moneylin(lude maldes some)

AN'

Valentin BAKOULINE

HOME ADDRESSE

ABIASES, NICANAGES

SEX

CITIZENSHIP

OCCUPATION

Soviet

NAME AND ADDRESS OF PRESENT EMPLOYER

PREVIOUS EMPLOYERS AND PERMER ADDRESSES (Approximataly lass suo yours) .

Mr: B second secretary soviet embassy leades alty:

Accuonpanica by wife, Vera Sept. 21, 1927

MOSOCH

C visas lasued, Ariviag NY AX-100 Oet 29, 1970.

DATE

DATE AND PLACE OF BIRTM

Feb®

9..

1925

• MARITAL

• SPOUSE'S NAME

STATUS

OFFICE

DATE

Visa Offica

NAME OF SUBA 2E 7PICER

OR USE OF OTHER OFFICE(S) OF TM

S6/610

118482

FOR USE OF

IMENT OF STATE ONLY

TYPE OF DEPARTMENT PROGRAM

TMENT OF STATE

REF

701%

Dm 70

10|29|

For Infornation concerning Subject you are referred to

CSCI-3/772,448 dated 2 July 1962,

& popy of walch was previously sent to your department.

nt to ct: BAKULT, Valentin' Vasilyevich,

referred to the Federal durea of Investigation,

lurther

05-919

CoNg FILEN 201-1610 1

:29 0CT 1970.

---

## Page 7

BARULIN, Valentin Vasily

DFOB: 9 TRB 1925 : :

Wife:

ich

(ВАКИ)

F- 6039

Career:

201-261813

Vera Ivanovna DrOB

2? Sept 1921

Son:

#: +7398 1611

Vladimir DOB

361 Jan 1954 (not 1n Mexico)

2 lept 60%

t. 23 let 6)

Nov 1959 - Jua 1964:

Employee (titute Offleof Sev Embanay, Mexico City.

(Subjoct. replaced Viktor L. KHUKHOREV, was replaced

by KHUKHOREV. ) Ha

Embasay. Paon:

Car: 3429 38D2 NOU-RGR

Wvert Bitlen

RIS si/

perineal ;

Freidonke

and ENERGO case 10B.

---

## Page 8

14-00000

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

PEATO VUNIT

NOTIFIED

ADVANCE CODY

BABUEO

JRLOTTED

CLASSINED MESSAGE ••TOTAL COPIES 216

SECRET

(When Filled In) C0 a mare

REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROPIBILO

lanes,

ROUTINO ANCIOR INITIALS SEES BY

evi.

DINSENS BY

30

ACTION UNIT

SBP

ACTION NO.

792

PER.

FILE, VR

WH8 EZ e aloes alica

SECRET 262330Z OCI 78 CITE MEXICO CITY

4680

DIRECTOR

O REDIOP AEGRIP

1. U.S. TRANSIT VISAS REQUESTED FOR VALENTIN VASILYEVICH

ANULIA CRI-ZGIBIG AND WIFE, VERA IVANOVNA, WHO HAVE RESE®-

VATIONS DEPART MEXICO 29 OCTOBER 78 ON AEREONAVES FLI. 4B0.

2. BELIEVE THIS IS PCS DEPARTURE AS HHE PACKED AND

SHIPPED MID-OCTOBER.

30 FILE: 201-261813. GP-1

SECRET

260т.N 193302

AT &

IS GOY!

SECRET

26070

801-24/813

---

## Page 9

DEPT. OF STATE TELE RAM

MEXICO "16LO

DATE: 21 AUGUST 1970

CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED

SUBJECT: VISAS HORSE: RE VLADIMIR BAXULIN.

---

## Page 10

tdcnnod

SOUrCe: MEXICO CITY - B

HMMA - 39510

Reel 80.: 65(191)

Side (s) :

One

Readability: Pair

SCOREI

DATe (0) 0f InCOrCODE: 4/SeR 20

Ree'd at Prod. Unit:

5 Oct 70

Processing Completed: 20 Dowvuer 1970

Tranacriber/Checker:

ZP

Translator/Editor:

Typist:-

---

## Page 11

SOurCes MEXICO CITY - B

Reel dio.: 65(191)

Dates

of Intercept:

5 Sep

70

Ko • Boris Pavlovich KOLOMAKOV

Mrs Ke • Lidiya Alekseyevna KOLOMYAKOVA

rocl:

Cut 1 (4 Sep 70, 1830-1831)

Ho says to his ulfe that he"leaves? ((ko leaves"

Cut 2 (5 Sep 70, 1140-1309)

((Silence, steps and haunering are heard)) K. says that the blouse of his

wife does not g0 very well with her skirt. ire dals very slad that Kenoticed 1t:

"I am very happy that you are interested do my appearance hur onu should love =

10 any blouse I put ono" (He ko lagha))

Mre He and her husband eat. ((Musie is heard from another apartment)) •

Bo was in Cuernavaca (( A torm not fafit from Mesico City)) with another Sou,

whose name. 18 not mentioned and YaBilly ((Probo ZIHIN)) piekad then up in'his cer.

((Pause))

Mrs Ro saye that Valentina ((KASATKINA)) lost 14 Bi, she did not eat breakn

foste at all, ((Silence))

Mrs ho says that l6 la vara coday, to thinka chat lt lo vara for her because

she had a drink. Mrs Ro did not have any drink yet! ((S1lence))

No reads a neuspaper, ((Pause)) Men Ko asks who will be elected in Chile.

Ro daysi - "Alandel, uho delonge to the left party, bar be should be approved by

Congress. ((Silence, boch read)) lira. No says that she likes to buy figures

68 mexican man and woman as a souventre. Mrs li complains that shear hoe rake off

paint fron her nails:

Mrs Ro says that BAKULIN 18 an impudent fellow (aakhal), BAKULIN and hin

mite are complégely different persons, chey have different charactere,

different

in everyching. Mahother woman in her place Mould bave atleast 10 lovers!

Cher husband

Vera ((BAKULINA)) also could have a lover. she should watch bin she should

check on hin atleast oncel. She should go to abe different hotela dad look for

him ((BAKULIN)). Once IVANOV cold Larisa ((Prob. Lora GOLUZOVA)) that one.

evening BAKILINA cane home late and IKULIN did not want to open ebe door for.

her. BKULIN asked her wife to write a report whare she vas so late In the evening.

POOS BAKULINA was begsing him for'a long time before he unlóked the door.:

((Both laugh)). Valentia ((BAKULIN)) 18 8 big laler." ((Stience))

Ke asks his wife to get up fron the bed. las Ko asks her husband to vast

---

## Page 12

14.00000

((Stlence)) Ke calls his wife from another room and offers her nuts.

enters and says thit she ((Mra Ko)) is not too fat. Ko agrees wich her.

No says that they have encugh

bread. (silence, steps are heard. Ko and his.i

wife are getting ready to g0 somewhera) K. says that he will go ahead of his

vite he must atart the cero cero leaves and one tnuce after hialeaves tes kol)

"(End of tape))

SECRET

---

## Page 13

14-00000

Source:

MEXICO CITY - A

FMMA - 39316

81 (97)

Reel No.:

Side (s):_

Readability:

Good

Type

Radio/TV

Record Player

Office. Equip-

ment (specify)•

Typewriter

Teletypeurites

Reproduction

Machine

MotOrs opecIEy):

Air Conditioner

Vacuun Cleaner

Machine Tools

Other koise

Tspecify):

Static

Street Sounds

Side

AKULIN 2011

Dete (8) of Intercept: 31 July - 2 Auge 1970

Rec'd al Prod. Unit: 17 August 1970

Processing Completed: 22 September 1970

Transcriber/Checker:

V.f.

Translator/Editor:

I.T.

Typist:

I.T.

BACKGROUND NOISE

Footage

(Portion

of tape)

Intensity and Amount

of Interference

REMARKS:

SECRET

---

## Page 14

14-00000

Source !

MEXICO CITY

Beel No: 81(97)

Date of Intercept: 31 July -

Auguet 2 1970

21 July 1970

Loud street noises. No conversation at beginning of reel.

Mr. and Mrs. KALININ exchange a few comments.

2 August 1970

Ao KALININ

B. KALININA

NO - IT'S BAKULIN

C.

Valya (Valentin - lau, possibly SOKOLOY)

Do:

Valya's wife

((Pootateps, fragments of conversation at firet.))

B. end D. Alscuss the cost of mitresses in various stores

and where 1t 1e beat to buy a mattress. Be saye, "My frlend Klava

((Inu)) bought ons ((a mattress)) in Hew Tork, but since they were

at the Ull, all their furniture was bought at their own expense?

the trunsfer/noving of their furniture ((probably baok hine)) waa

free. That mattress le just lying unused at the daoha. the doesn't

need it. They don't live at the dacha. They're in Tugoslavia now.

Her mother and lather don't live at the dacha and 1t will probably

be rented out. II I give lava 850. for 1t, she'11 be glad to give

1t to me."

A, comments, however, that it makes no wense buying the

mattress fron Klava because It 1e old already, the springe have

rusted, oto. Furthermore, sending the mattress ((new)) back hone

won't be expensive - "the dietance is amall, and then by ship to

Ieningrad." 'He feele it's better to buy it here and send 1t.

Do sußgests "writing to the diplomatio mall," but O. aaye, "Ho don't

have diroot mail; we have to write through MID."

Do then talke about an employee ((unidentified)) who, in

anever to lena'e ((lnu)) query how she should correspond with

Vora ((Inu)) bad "said in such & presumptuous tone - "You can stand

Doing without correspondence for a year. '" D. feels the sane man

had been upset because he had not been appointed an 01f101a supervisor

(nachal nik), but had said later, "What an I upset fort Il they

don't want me, so whatl". In connection with thie B. says, "There's

sone sort of arrogance here; it'e necessary to stay as lar ae

possible from 1t."

SECRET

---

## Page 15

15. 89:

SECRET

C. and D. aok that A. and B. ((presumably)) wilte a letter

to some acquaintances ((unidentifled, probably in the Soviet Union))

and iind out "whether we can depend on them and if we are going to

stop for a day, how much thie will oost approximately, and where

best 18 it to stay." D. adds, "I don't think It's necessary to

mention the mattress.. When we arrive there, we'll make arrangements

about 1t. If 1t'e no, then s0. I'll manage very well. I have

two very good beds." ((Apparently C. and D. are departing soon.))

Do continues that her friend Shura (Aleksandre - Inu) wrote her that

she 18 frequently 111 and It's difficult for her with only one

mattress.

However, D. has room to sleep three, a divan and two bede.

II someone vielte, "Valya ((her husband)) and I 8l0ep in one bed,

Bet 11 I'= 510b, I oleop on the lives, muilo foria liner son, probably))

and Valya sleep on the beds. It's poosible to maneuver somehow. Il

we had one bed and somone came to tielt, it would be very diffioult."

C. suddenly aske 1f they know a "hooligan" song, and at the

roquest of the women he singe 1t. All laugh, after which D. telle

"dirty Joke. Again all laugh, altos thio they cesticle moders

youth. O. comento, "Bucation has a great Influence on people."

Do sayo, "You know, whon I vorked in (?:our ?) department/adminatration

there was a very pleasant engineer there.. He was 45 yeare old. Hie

daughter finished the Medical Institute.. She went to work and

then all the patiente began to complain to the chief physician about

her rudeness. She started to be terribly rude at home. Then 1t

began, - she started cursing and hitting. They examined her and

she had something wrong with (1-20) and they put her in the Insane

asylun. Then periodically she was calm, wad at home, and then

suddenly she again becare violently coarse. She was 24 years old

but theis other daughter was 6 years old, can you ingine?. They

wore afraid she would beat the little girl to death.. If she was

home alone, she would almost beat her to death, Can you imagine what

a tragedy this 18? They gave her all kinda of medioines. We had a

private/excluslve polyclinie, there were many high offlotale (svetil)

there. Nothing helped her. They said ((1t wan onued by)), "Over

etrain.' A thinks that "people have become weaker" now. But B.

saye,

B. Vorochke, I think it'e simply because there's more information now.

SECRET

---

## Page 16

14-00000-

3.

A. You yourself remember how much information we received at (1G)

and none of us went insane during the entire live yeare.... At

the Univeraity you've got to consider lt thie way, 11 live

persone ((go nuts?)) during a session, that'a a enall urbs.

B. ((1nsists)) There are very many ((going insane)). I have s

friend ((lenale)) who 18 a paychiatriet. she told no that there

are many (who are 111 -- mentally?), very many.. Sometimea she

doesn't know (thom to handle all her work?).

1. ((Jokingly)) Perhaps information la affecting me now and (20) in

a hospital? I haven't gone insane up to now, but perhapa 1t

doesn't depend upon the amount of information, but. on the type

of information. ((All laugh.))

Do To. tolodya (la.)), it was simpler prevloualy. If you keep

looking at such things ((possibly referring to TV)), you '11

have nightmares.

B. I only vatoh 'Inssie.' You know, 1t'g a dogo. I like 1t.. I

always try to watch it and I'n always alfeoted by 1t..

Ao:, You know, I think we're espeolally affected by 1t because we

Know

the partioulars. That dog len't speolally trainod, 1t

belonge to a family. And the mother of the boy le a housenife.

They just announced that during (ochool)) examinations, the

boy will not be photographed. There's going to be a hiatus la

the ((TV)) programs.

B. Tovoohla, are you going by car? fou're not leating Boor, are your

Doz 't forget (l the bos?). I've already packed the box.

Do

Do you have boxent

B. I do. Valeria ((lnu)) left then for uo. Our carpenter made them.

A. I've been looked at those bores. I think that I stay here for

four years, we won't be able to pack our baggage aocording to

the box sizes, but will have to do the opponite (lget boxes to

fit the baggage dimensione.))

B. You inor, we don't have so much junk. We bought things, thinking..•

((loud noise covere remainder of sentence)).

A. I'm telling you, it makes sense to overpay for packing because

then everything will be in order.

Bo We have (2-36) - 8750.

A. But our ambassador (3-40), more expensives that's understandable.

---

## Page 17

14-00000

SECREI

But I'm paying 560 ((possibly dollare)) = only half.

B. (2-3G), 83,000. The only thing to that we have to pay for an

apartnent there yet.

A. We had a car, absolutely at our own expense.

Do Tell me, why (2G)?

B. They pay themselves now ((unspecifled for what) ). A women went

by plane, she paid.

A. A year hasn't passed yot. They pay from September, or something

Ilke that. I think they started later, almost since January.

B.' There you are; (1G) arrived; (? ho left ?) hia car there for

some: reason.

Do We don't have a car. Do you have a car?

• Б. MO.

D.. But he ((unidentified)) has one.

Bo There are two cars here for (2-3G) Oleg'e ((2mu)) car (1-20).

But I don't understand why it's that way. Tolodya spoiled him

scandalouely. He's young and he drives a car, but youre older

and mist...

A. His wife oan't walk.

B. Too bad, let her move her ass.

D. (3-40), there was one car, one for two people. (3-40). Frat

ute

(10) 1o horrible/terrible. Valerka's ((Inu))/was in the hoapital,

children

Valerka'&/were with n. I was working. Vorin ((Inu)) wan taking

care of them. Iwo little girla lived with me. So he ((unidentified)

called him ((Valerks)) and said, "Valere, put the car in for

washing and I'll pick it up.. I have to have it clean." Fe

((Valerka)) came to Valya ((D.'s hueband) ) and said, "He didn't

even ask how my wife 16.' Valere had spent the night nest to

his wife lyubke who had just been operated on They out out

her glands under a general anesthetio; she was nauseous, but

he said, "put the car in for washings I need 1t," or, "wagh

the car' In such a tone of voice.

such impudence!

D. Yes. In general, his manner shows ((what he 10)). He waan't

even interested in asking how bie ((Valera'e)) wife 18, where

the children are. That'a unimportant to him. But wagh his: car

for. him, he needs it clean. I'll tell you, with such an

---

## Page 18

SECRET

Impudent person you can only be impudent because they ( (such

people)) don't understand.

A. You see, in principle, he was a favorite/pet (Iyublnchil);

apparently de it ve thai way now

Do But why do you think that he'll be that way now?

Ao Because he 1s also a khokhol ((derogatory term for Verainian)),

(1-20). ((Pause) )

D. Oleg three weeks ago or more (2G); he also knows how to be a1ok.

B. Oleg knows how and she knows how.

((They are possibly talking about Oleg HBOFIPORKNKO or 01e8

SHEVCHENKO, since both are Uraniano, or aB: A. calle 0168,

"khokhol."))

Do She was so (3-4G), turned about, and sald nasty things about me.

But outwardly she will chat and give a good Impression, I recall

when she came to the Embassy (3-4G).

Bo What de she, (20)?

D. No, she was there (1-2G). In general, they scolded (for, oursed))

and insulted her, and they scolded ((or, cursed)) Oleg... but

Oleg 1a taotlese in general.

But he knows how to pretend to be tactful and courteous.

Bo. He once said sone sort of thing - you and I were sitting on

the couch. I felt so (Pawward/uncomfortable?) "I'm probably

10 years older ((than you. What right do you have to say such

thingo." (B. said to the man, probably the same 0l0g.)) He

said, "I was Joking." I don't recall the joke, but 1t was so

stupid, with some sort of vileness, that the joke was absolutely

Impossible.

D. ('I liked?)itvery much yesterday when Pavel ((Inu)) was Joking.

No Favel also knows hor to joke.

((or, we))

D. They/went swinning. Tamara said, "I don't feel well, " and

bocause of that she couldn't go swimming, that's without a doubt.

He started pestering, "Girle, go siimning." He were bothered.

Volodys didn't say a word, (?but he?) said, "Let's go swimming

or else we won't feed you at lunch time. And Favel kept

Insisting. But Tamara said, "Why are you pestering us. Maybe

we can't go swimning." And Pavel said, "Ohl You're not at that

age!" Can you imagine? She stared at hin and didn't say a word.

---

## Page 19

SECRET

Co And how did you understand it when he tore her bathing suit?

He cane up and said, "VANOVSKIY, take away your wife's bathing suit

because all her measurenents can be seen." When she started

telling him off!!!

Do She really told him off. She's vielous; she gota wound up

monentarily. Ilsten, I'll tell you this facts women remain

women. (?Once?) she got a pitcher and little napking... Klava

pulls out the pitcher with the napkins and says in Iront of

everyone: "What do you do with this?" She answered, "I wash

myself!" Kostya said, "You fool! Put It where it belongs!"

Ilaten, strangers ((not Identifled)) were sitting there, can

you Imagine? And yesterday, well, all right, I'm older. Katya

1o older, but Tamara 18 younger than I.

Bo Tamara 18 probably 44. But, In general, that's not a subject

for conversation with men.

Do Any way, It's not that time yet when women have obenge of life.

I don't even know how old Katya. 18. He was (? 50 years old ?).

(They are possibly talking about Pavel KOVALEY, the chauffeur,

and hlo wife Yekaterina.)) No, you listen. He has the neive

to ask, "Who wante to see him ((lnu))? ((Her comment to his

question)) "what are you? Are you the Secretary or the

Pirst Department, or something?. What business 1o it of yours

who la going to ask for whom at the Embassy?"

A.. Whon?

Do Well, when we arrived, he said, "Who wants to see him!" I said,

"An acquaintance."

A. Guess who! ((they Laugh))

Do No, I can't take him in such large dosest We had supper together

the day before yesterday when we brought the boss/bosses. And

Katya spilled wine on (MUZ'MIN?). How he snapped at her!

C. What happened there!

Do How he did snap at her. Tamara said, "Such things aren't notleed

usually." Pirst he stared at her. That's hie way, to etare firet.

A. Fe first has to let it sink in. Then he neede contact.

D. I 100kf Katya was putting a whiskey glass on the table.. (?The

whiskey (lass was empty?), and then he really let loose.

B.: Oh! So you were there?

---

## Page 20

SECRET

D. Nell, that was the day before yesterday.

B. dell, you should have said sonething, about it. That's the version

/episode we were talking about.

do in sorry for kntya. Those things frequently affect her quicker.

She's simply affected more quickly by them.

Bo Ida ((DENINA)) was saying, "I came upset at something at Sasha

((DOMIN)), It was sonething he did, or had not answered properly,

and Katya said, "You see how spoiled you are, while all of my

life I only see such thinge." When Ida started working, he

chewed out Ratya together with (IG), saying, "Go work. How 18

It that Ida went to work and you're sittine at home? the wife

of an official vent to work, but you sit at home?" He kept

picking, on her until the wife of (?KRASHOVSKIY?) - there was

auch a man here - until (?KRASNOYSKIY's?) wife came and told

Isa about this and said, "Ira, speak with Semonovich ((lnu)).

so that he will call Pavel in and speak with him."' And Satya

said, "Where am I going to work? I'm no good any more as a

doctor's assistant (fel'asher), and to go as a cleaning woman

itsalffloult/hard for ne now."

Do Ilsten, of course. Tamara telle me that she is at the age when

it's time for her to stop working an a cleaning women. She has

to guard her health. Her heart constantly (Thurts?) her.

B. Ho, really? Konstantin Nikandrovich T(BOGATYREY)) auled, so she

even began working in a second place.

D. Jes? And how about that one ((woman)) who knows everything?

Is she working already?

Ao. I don't know. Those probleme don't bother me at all.

Bo: (3546)

Ao. What's it to her. she can type on all typewriters, and with

touch typing. She can aleo work as a bookkeeper.. She can do

anything you want.

B. Listen, and how is (?SHCHUCHKIN'e?) wife?

C. (?SHCHUCHKIN?) arrived and the first thing he did was to run to

we to work. He didn't discuss anything with (Madya?), but

ran to me asked where he could get a job for his wife. And

that's with two children. They had five children.

B. Maybe they feel the wife should work so there wouldn't be more

---

## Page 21

SECRET

chiliren?

Co Further, he ran to the oifice, saying, "My wife knows Inflish,

Spanish; she know the tipewriter.": He ran around everywhere.

And finally he not her in.. And he's always around the Ambassador,

and ever thine. and he finally got her & job. The chilaren

hang around in the imbassy and she works. Do you understand?

(PAnd that's?) the First Secretary! ((Pause)) Vovochka, shall

we no ((probably by car))? I'm dragginr. you awey fron your wife.

((B, and Do chat about cookin, various dishes for a while.! ).

Ind of Recording

---

## Page 22

DEPT. OF STATE TELEGRAM

MEXICO 4640

DATE: 21 AUGUST 1970

CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED

SUBJECT: VISAS HORSE: RE VLADIMIR BAKULIN....

---

## Page 23

DISPATCH

PROCISSING ACTION

SECRET

¡CAPRIS NOR WORKING:

Chief, SB Division

xXX

NO.

Cbiof, WH Division

PO ME: XINE REQUIRED

DRIP QUALINED DESE

LAM FITICE SADEIONG

TOA!

Chief of Station,

Vien

Loria

SHE STOP AEGRIP

PYurly Daltriyevich BULYGIN (201-732764)

ACTION REOUSRED - REFIRENCES

Reference: HNHW-17866, 5 May: 1970

1. No appreciate the information forwarded in Reforeoco.

2.

Concerning Subject's stay in Mexico, our sources have

reported the following.

Subject arrived in Mexico on 7 March 1970

aboard Sabena 555 from Brussels.

During bis one month stay in

Moxico City,

he stayed

at tbe Hotel Agnes located at Calle Saltillo

Me?, Manice City.

Subjoci deparied sexaco on & April 1970 aboard

Alr

France fligbt 700 for New York. LICALLA and LILYRIC first

reported seeing Subject at the Soviet Embassy on Monday, 9 March.

He wns thereafter seen entering the Embassy almost every morning

botween 0900 - 0945 hours:

During. Subject'a entire stay in Mexico,

he ma seen most often in the company of Subject of 201-261813,

Por AMIRIFE inforation, coupled with information available in

Station files,

it 1a believed that Subject of 201-261813 possibly

functions. as one of the Deputy Rezidents of the AEGRIP Residentura

1n Mexiço City®

It 18 probable that Subject of 201-261813 was the

Moxico City AEGRIP caso officer in this particular case.

Subject's

other contacte were Bubjects of 201-850177 and 201-844388, both

identified by AEMIDRIFF AS AEGRIP officers, and possibly could have

boen involved in the case as support officers.

Subject was also

in contact with Subject of 201-814235, who 18 an AGRIP officer.

Subject was not seen at the Soviet Embassy on 14 March,

which was the originally scheduled meeting date with the LNEASE

agont. On Bunday, 15 March, LILYRIC reported that Subject entered

che Soviet Embassy at 1143 hours and was seen leaving,

alone, at

1432 hours•

Thore was no LIMPTY sOurce coverage on 28 March 1970.

which was supposed to be the alternate meeting date with the agent.

4, Forwarded herewith are negatives of photographs of Subject

taken by LIEMPTY sources.

Grace E. PARMILANT

Attachment:

Nogativea

h/w

lat

Lotribution:

B.901-26133

05 сору ил

241 - 732744

C/SB "/att h/"

DSPANCA STANCE AND MEMBRE

КИНА - 39258

CLASIFICANOO

SECRET

1 - C/WH w/o att

DATE

27 July 1340

7-26/813

MOS PUI NUATE

201-732764

---

## Page 24

TO

DISPATCH

SECRET

Chief, SB Division

LEFO.

Ch101, Wh Division

FROM

Acting Chief of Station,

SAD REDTOP AKKICK

QYevgenly Ivanovich FADIS (201-163926)

ACTION REQUIRED - REFRENCES

XX

PROCESSING ACTION

MARKED FOR PEDEXING

MO INDOING RIOVIRED

OMIT QUALIND DESIG

CAN JUDGE INDEXING

Subject and his wife returned

from home: leave on 17 June

1970.: They had 'departed on home leave on 27 April.

Returning to Mexico City with the FEDINs was Vladimir

Velentinerich Parvni, do jess viù sui

üi Valentin Vooilgerich

BAKULIN (201-261813), who 1e coming to spend his summer

With hia paroats.

Cane: A. 1

ios:e el's 3i7

ace E. PRALLIT

Distribution:

- C/8B

- C/WH

B 201-261813

es Copy ww.

201-163926

ED MA -39130

CLASSEICATION

SECRET

file

301-261813X

26 June 1970

201-163926

---

## Page 25

CHELE SLECETABAT DESSERTATION

NOUNCE COPS USUEN

SOTTEN

. Z

BHI-

DISCEDI AT

ACTION

156

FER

DRED MESSAGE

TOTAL COPIES

GROUP!

(liken Filled In)

HEPROSUSTION OF THIS CEPY FROLIZED

hiltono

GiEs

Gio..

TRAINY TOES ESFEINO..

%-AEF TO CS FLE NO..

O FLE RO

1111

1

BRANCH

FIJE, VR

SECRET 262053Z MAY 78 CITE

3246

20 Barl: 087219

To approprare dol sub iced.

RYBAT REDTOP AENIDRIFF

..

!. TOPNET AND REDINDAIT DEDNIEFED HEMIDRIFF IN DESAIL UN

SOVIET EMBASSY REFEREITURA 15 AND 16 MAY, RESULIS, WHICH HIGHLY

INTER STIG, INCLUDED ROUGH SKETCHES AS VELL AS DESCRIPTIÓN OF

INTERIOR, FUNCTIONS OF EACH ROOL, AND LOCATION OF PERSONNEL-WITHIN

REFERENTURA. FOLLOVING ARE HIGILIGITS THIS DEBRIEFING, WITH EMPHASIS

ON THOSE POINTS WHICH HQS MAY WISH FURTHER CLARIFIED.

20 . ALL TYPING OF CLASSIFIED POUCH MATERIAL DONE IN ONE ROOM

IN REFERENTURA• ALL FOUR WALLS AND CEILING THIS ROOM COVERED WITH

...*

LAYERS OF BURLAP, COTTON, AND NYLON (FIRST TUO FOR SOUNDPROOFING,

HYLON FOR DEIERATION): TIO OPTIVA MANUAL TYPEWRITERS USED, AND

OCCASIONALLY REINMETALL TYPEURITER USED BY AYBASSADOR'S WIFE

STORED IN THIS ROOM. ALL PAPER AND CARBON HAD TO BE ACCOUNTED FOR

TO ALEKSANDR KOZLOV, DEPUTY CHIEF REFERENTURA AND MID CODE CLERK:

FINISHED DISPATCH HANDED IO KOZLOV OR REFERENTURA CHIEF NIKODAY

SOKOLOV, WHO PREPARED POUCH.

3.

CABLES DRAFTED BY HAND AND APPROVED IN DRAFI BY BORIS

KOLOMIYAKOV (KGB REZIDENT) OR KONSTANTIN BOGATYREV (GRU REZIDENT) •

SECRET

---

## Page 26

CACLE SECRETAKIAT DISSENMMATION

ПРА: 05.02

ROUTING ANDIOR INITIALS. SEEN OY

ADVANCE CODY

ISSUED

SLOTTED•

BTs.

DISSEDA BY

ACTION UNIT

ACTION NO.

DGASSIFIED MESSAGE

TOTAL COPIES

(When Filled Ind

8462/015.a2

MILASICABEA

REPRODUETION OF THIS COFY PROMIBITED

UNO

CLATIFY TO CE FRENO.

ATEP TO CS FRENO.

D

FME RID

O RETURN TO

2

PER

02-

BRANCH

FILE, VR

PAGE 2

3246 SECRET

DRAFTS THEN HANDED TO SOXOLOV OR KOZLOV FOR ENCIPHERING. (STATION

COMMENT: AEMIDRIFE LOCATED KGB CODE CLERK IVAN MORROW AND GRU

CODE CLERK VLADIMIR KASATKIN WITHIN CERTAIN REFEREIT URA OFFICES.

IDWEVER, AEMIDRIFE NOT PERMITTED ACCESS TO THESE OFFICES AND MAY

NOT HAVE BEEN AWARE OF FUNCIIONS OF KNOKILOV AND KASATKIN• STATION

ASSUMES AT LEAST SCIE NGB AND GRU LESSAGES ENCIPHERED - PRESUMABLY

BY QUE TIME PAD, AS AEMIDRIFF NEVER. HEARD ANY SOUNDS FROM THESE

ROOMS DA BEFORE BEIIG HANDED TO KOZLOV FOR REENCIPHERING.

4. SOKOLOV AND KOZLOW WORKED IN ROOM I WHICH AENIDRIFF HAD

11O ACCESS AND COULD NOT SEE INIO.. TO HER KHOWLEDGE, THIS ROOM

FUNCTIONED AS. DOCUMENT CONTROL. POINI AND MESSAGE PREPARATION CENTER •

OUT-GOING MESSAGES SFERRED TO PARA 3 ABOVE TAKEN TO IHIS OFFICE:

AND ENCRYPTED AND TYPED BY KOZLOV ON WHAT TO AEMIDRIFF SOUNDED LIKE

REGULAR TYPEWRITER. AFTER MESSAGE TYPED IT HANDCARRIED BY KOZLOV

OR SOKOLOV OR BY ONE OF TELEX OPERATORS TO SHED OUI SIDE OF. MAIN

EMBASSY BUILDING WHICH HOUSED TELEX. INCOMING MESSAGES WOULD BE

RECEIVED ON THIS TELEX AND HAUDCARRIED TO REFERENTURA. MEGIDRIFF

HAS SEEN LYING ON DESK TELEX ROON MESSAGES ENCIPHERED INTO GROUPS OF

NUMBERS MID LETTERS. SHE HAS ALSO HEARD TELEX OPERATORS (SOVIET

WIVES) COMPLAIN THAT WORKING TELEX WAS HARD WORK, AND IF THEY MADE

MISTAKE

StiGRET

---

## Page 27

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISZERINATICH

PERSON HOT NOTHIEN

ADVANCE COPY

ISSUED

LOTTED

88: -

DISSCH 8Y

RETION UNIT

ACTION NO.

AT:.

. z

PER

CLESSIFIED MESSAGE

• TOTAL COPIES

SEC2E8

GHOUP&

(shen Filled in) in one

tix0:,05.2:0

REPRODUCTION OF THIS COFY ERCINITED

INDIX:

Dres Dio

CLASTIFY TO CS FI.ENO.

X-REF TO CS FAE HO.

O FILE HO O RETURN TO

BRAICH

FILE, VR

PAGE

3

3246 SECRET

THEY WOULD MAVE TO STARI ALL OVER. ALSO HEARD SOVIEIS COMPLAIN THAT

IT POOR SECURITY TO HAVE TO CARRY MESSAGES BETWEEN REFERENTURA

AND TELEX SHED.. TELEX SHED, WHICH FLUSH AGAINST WALL SURROUNDING

EMBASSY COMPOUND ARMED THUS THEORETICALLY ACCESSIBLE TO HOSTILE

PENETRATION, CLOSED AID SEALED WITH SAME WAS SEAL, WHICH USED TO

SEAL INDIVIDUAL REFERENTURA OFFICES WHEN THEY NOT OCCUPIED (REFERENTURA

IT SELF NEVER LEFT UNANNED>. STATION COMIENT: FROM ALMIDRIFF

DESCRIPTION, AND NOT WITHSTANDING ALLEGED "SECURITY PRODLEN" OF

PHYSICAL SEPARATION OF TELEX SHED FROM EMBASSY BUILDING, STATiON

DOUBTS THAT ANY SENSITIVE EQUIPHENT LOCATED IN TELEX SHED. SINCE

ENCIPHERED MESSAGES -- APPARENTLY NOT TAPES - CARRIED BACK AND

FORIH BETWEEN TELEX PD CODE ROOM, IT APPEARS LIKELY "TYPING" HEARD

BY AEMIDRIFF IN CODE ROOM COMES FROM CIPHER MACHINE. TELEX OPERATORS

PRESUMABLY PUNCHED OUT ENCIPHERED TEXT HAIDED THIM BY CODE CLERK.)

5. CORNER ROOM, LOCATED NEXT IO CODE ROOH, ALSO OFF LIMITS

TO AEMIDRIFF, ALTHOUGH SHE ABLE SEE INTO THIS ROOM FROM CORRIDOR.

ROOM CONTAINED SEVEN OR

EIGHT GREY METAL MACHINES PLACED AGAINST

WALLS, WHICH COVERED BY SOUNDPROOFING MATERIAL. THIS ROOM OCCUPIED

BY ALEKSEY KLIPOV, REFERENTURA TECHNICIAN, AND AEMIDRIFF HAS SEEN

HIM OPERATING OHE OF MACHINES, WHICH APPEARED TO BE RUWUING OFF

SECRET

---

## Page 28

CAELE SECRETAPIAT DISSORMATION

PECCHADIT NOTIFED

ADVANCE COFY

ISSUED

SOTTED

PER

LASSIFIED MESSAGE

TOTAL COPIES

SSCD

(When Fillid In)

822.52. 158425224

REPREUUCTIC OF THE LOPY PROMLITEO

WIDEX.

17 res

O No

CLASIFY TO CS FILENO.

FRE RIO O TETURE TO

6

BASSENA BY

TETICH CHAT

ACTION NO.

BRANCH

FILE, VR

PAGE 4

3246 SECRET

COPIES OF PRINTED MATERIAL. PHOTO REPRODUCTION ALL: APPARENILY DONE

IRTHIS ROOM. 1

6.

ANOTHER LARGE ROOM IN REFERENTURA USED FOR READING ROOM.

WAS BROXEN UP INTO SEPARATE CUBICLES WHERE SOVIET OFFICERS CALL

OF WHOM HAD ACCESS TO THIS ROOM AND TYPING ROOM) WERE PERMITTED TO

READ CLASSIFIED DOCUMENTS WHICH BROUGHT TO THEM BY SOKOLOV OR XOZLOV•

THIS ROOM-NOT CONSIDERED SECURE AREA FOR STORAGE OR CONVERSATION,

BUT OFFICERS VERE PERMITTED TO TYPE IN CUBICLES. ROOM HAS ONE LARGE

WINDOW OF THICK FROSTED GLASS, WITH SHALLER WINDOW SET INTO IT•

SMALLER WINDOW SOMETINES OPENED DURING DAY FOR AIR, BUT ALWAYS CLOSED

AT NIGHT.

7• REFERENTURA CONTAINED FIVE MORE SMALL ROOMS, WHICH ALVAYS

SEALED WHEN UNOCCUPIED ABSUHICH COULD OULY BE OPENED BY KOZLOV OR

SOKOLOV Il PRESENCE OF OFFICER UHO USED ROOM. CAEMIDRIFE ONCE ABLE

TO SEE INTO LAST OF THESE ROCHS. IT HAD LARGE SIX-FOOT HIGH SAFE

AGAINST QUE WALL AND SHALL WOODEN TABLE AND CHAIR IN OPPOSITE

CORNER.) FIRST OF THESE ROOMS USED BY AMBASSADOR• NEXT ONE BY

KGB OFFICERS KOLOMYAKOV, OLEG NECHIPORENKO, AND YURIY KUPLYAKOV.

THIRD USED BY GRU OSFICERS BOGATYREV, BORIS CHUYKHOV, AND VLADIMIR

BARULINO; FOURTH BY KHOKHLOV, YURIY ROMANENKO, AND OTHERS, AND

SECRET

---

## Page 29

CASLE SECRETABIAT DISSELINATION

PENNILES: HOTFIED

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

TOTAL COPIES

GHOUR 1

ADVANCE CONY

BLOTTEN

ATI.

_ Z

DISSEN BY

- ACTION UNIT

ACTION NO.

PER

— -

FILE, VR

(Sthen Filled In)

REFRODUCTION OF THIS COFY ARCHIDITED

INDEX:

[]NO

CLASSIFY TO ES FAENO.

JREP TO ES FILENO..

J rILE RD

A RETURN TO

ROUTILIO ANDION INITIALS-SLEND

BRANCH

PAGE 5

3246 SECRET

LAST BY KASATKIN AND GRU OFFICER VLADIMIR I SERADZE:

8. ACCESS TO REFERENTURA CONTROLLED BY THREE DOORS, FIRST OF

WHICH NEVER LOCKED. SECOND OPENED BY ELECTRIC BUZZER IN RESPONSE

TO RINGING OF BELL (RING RED BELL TWICE FOR READING ROOM, WHITE

BELL THREE TIMES FOR ACCESS TO PRIVATE OFFICES). THIRD DOOR MANUALLY

UNBOLTED AFTER PERSON ENTERING IDENTIFIED TIRU PEEP HOLE. •ÓNLY PHONE

IN REFERENTURA IS NEAR ENTRANCE AND IS CONNECIED TO INTERCON SYSTEM

(WHICH. ENTIRELY SEPARATE FROM EXTERNAL SYSTEMS.

9• REQUEST HOS COMMENTS ON ABOVE AS WELL AS GUIDANCE FOR

ADD IT IONAL DEBRIEFING ON THIS SUBJECT • ALSO REQUEST EXPRESSION

INTEREST AND FEASIBILITY TECHNICAL OFERATION AGAINST CODE ROOM FROM

LINESA COMPLEX.

16.'

FILE: 201-835678. GP-1

"SECRET

20220604

SECRET

---

## Page 30

DISPATCH

das.

SECREI.

PROCESSNG ACTION

Chief, SB Division

Chief, WH Division

Chief of Station,

MAPKE FOR NOLING

NO DOCING BOUPLO

ORY QUALITO DISE

MAN JUDGE INDIVIDE

WI ADFTLAS

Contacts uith Soviet 01ficlals in Mexico

ACTION TEQUILD - MILKINGS

Refereaces:

A .

HHHA-38435, 4 February 1970

B.

DIRFCTOR 021485, 31 March 1970

1.

Forwarded under separate cover

are copies of several

momoranda prepared by

who have more than superficial

contact with Soviets in lexico City. By virtue of joining various

organizations such as ANCOSAD (association of diplomats below the

rank of Ambassador) and the Consular:Corps Association (or by

being invited to functione sponsored by the latter group, ha!!?

dozen

have. had a wide range of contacts with

MHHARSHers: In many Instances, such contacts have been one-time

affairs,

but in sone cases there was some promise of a continuine

relationship which could be of value in the

Most of these contacta are in the early stages,

and most

wILL remain at a fairly quiet level. In some cases, however,

contacts are with WHHARSHers who are on our priority target list,

AEJALISCO, ABPOLIP, and 201-305870.

these targete are encouraged to keep the relationship alive as part

of the overall strategy planned agaiost each target.

And, in the

case of those who are not targets, an existing relationship with

one of

them might be parlayed into a relationship with one of the

targets.

This conscious effort to make contact with WHHARSHers was •

quite successful in its initial

stages. It seems to have run in to

Attachment:

16 Copat 96.

Dịg

ribution:

C/SB "/att u/s/c

C/WE •/att

u/a/c

DESPASON STATER

Sile.

201-261813

escapy filed

74-120-118

WED UMBER

ЛИМА- 38727

CLASSIFKA MON

SECRET

DAIL

50-100%

---

## Page 31

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

DISPAT

SECRET

НИМА -38727

Panably also due to the operation adanst nestasie!

however, in the wake of the ArMIDRIFF defection, and

In must

cases, our KHARSH frlends have suddenly hecome: inaccessible.

There were three functions of the Consular Corps, including the

annual election of oificers, within about two

weeks of AchIDRIFt's

defection and subsequent press conference (which took some cracks

at the members of the HHARSH consular section,

indicating that

they spent 90 percent of their time doing intelligence work and

very

little time Issuing visas).

The MHIARSH representation in the

Consular Corps Association had always been a strong one, and

one of

their people was nomally an officer (formerly AE)IKHARD, more

recently 201-305870).

However,

none of them

attended any of these

functions, including

the elections.

201-305870, a consular officer,

had an iovitation

to the home of Dexter f. KOSTIT on 13 March.

Not only did he not show up, ROSTEDT was never able to get hima

the phone to confirm the invitation.

A January volleyball match

betweon the KHHARSH Embassy and LNPURE was supposed to bave

been

followed by return engagements..

201-305870 was in charge of this,

and he has suddenly lost interest in the follow-up. On the other

hand, the MAHARSHers who belong to A!COSAD have behaved more normally.

AENALISCO, the MHHARSH representative on the ANCOSAD board of

directors, took part in an excursion to. Baja California 28 February

(DO INPURE OIIICerS went) and was present with a half-dozen of his

colleagues at the AMCOSAD annual election Junch on 19 March.

(At the 19 March affair, AEJALISCO was uncharacteristically nervous,

but

would not say what was bothering him.

the AESEASICK operation reached

It will be noted that

its denouement the night before.

3.

In support of the evidence above that tho MRHARSHers. have

Tone into their shell, at least to sone extent, as a result of

AEMIDRIFF's defection, LIBACON-l has reported that a TDY technician

with whom he had been

working as a translator, told him that it

was now much more difficult to get auay to go out on the town with

LIBACON-1.

he said it was

really s-- on us, even ve

When asked by' (Ders) are being watched."

due to AlMIDRIFE,

"who

general,

the line given out by MHiaRSHers asked about AEMIDRIFF'S dofection

sticks to the story that she was just a dumb secretary who fell

In love with a lexican.

She not only knows nothing, she will

probably be very sorry she ever had anything to do with that Latit

Lover®

It 18 probable that the MHHARSHers will slowly come out

of their mells and will begin to circulate once more. If so, the

Station's policy of supplementing the SB operational program with

personal contacts will continue, and, as atated, will concentrate

on obtaining this type of contact with the selected targets.

': In

this way, our assessment and knowledge of the target can be

supplement-

ed by & case officer's expert assessment.: Headquarters will be

kopt advisod of developments.

Thie dispatch was in preparation when Reference B arrived.

The assessuents of AEJALISCO and 201-305870, requested in Reference

B, are Included in the attachment. PCQS have been filled out in

certain instances,

and & batch on AEJALISCO will be forwarded

shortly.

The Spanish-language PCQ's-promised in Reference B will

be most velcone.

SIPIERTION

201-26/813

PAGE NO

POR 53a

USE PREVIOUS EDITION.

---

## Page 32

SUBJECT: Vincent P. RIZZUTO's Soviet Contacts

Largely through the medium of AYCOSAD, RIZZUTO has met a

number of Soviets.

With many it is little more than a nodding

acquaintance, but

with some it is

a little deeper than that.

The latter are discussed below.

It should

be pointed out that each

of these Soviets is very likely

aware of RIZZUTO'S RVROCK affiliation.

A. [Valentin V. BAKULIN (201-201813) - RIZZUTO has known

him for over two years.

BAKULIN

is. a snooth-talking,

smooth-appearing

diplomat.

He speaks excellent Spanish. but has never been known

to

/talk about anything more controversial

than the reather, the landscape,

or his family.

His wife is & pleasant woman, but she rarely

accompanies nim on excursions.

He has a teenaged son of whom he

is very proud.

The son visited him in the summer of 1S69, and the

son exhibited

a pretty good working

knowledge of English, which he

bad been stulying in school in Moscow.

BAKULIN aupears to be. a:

bit of a hypochondriac..

He complains often of stomach ailments,

and for this reason rarely takes a drink (at least in public.

In spite of his good Spanish and his very presentable appearance,

be does not seem

to mix much with non-Soviets.

In common with

most ofthis colleagues (notably excepting Boris A. CHMYKIIOV and

Boris A. KAZANTSSV), BAKULIN seems to prefer the company of his

own people, and does not go out of his way to talk to others.

- When he

approached,

he

is very affable.

He never talks about his

job (he is one of the

First Secretaries but does not appear to have

any overt job), but did say once that he and CHMYKHOV could not go

on home leave at the same time because one had to cover for the

other.

ANCOSAD functions appear to provide the only occasion for

BAKULIN to appear in public®

When RIZZUTO has been to functions at

the Soviet Embassy, BAKULIN has always been the proper host - polite

and hospitable:

The real BAKULIN never shows through.

Since he is

• neigbbor (same floor of same apartment building) as well as

frequent companion of CHINYKHOV, he is undoubtedly aware of the

relationship between RIZZUTO and CHlYKNOY, and he stays out of it,

• probably on purpose.

only three

Feeines, the firs two neetings being vell over a year apart.

Turiy CHERNYSH (201-825743) - RIZZUTO has met CHERRYSH

However,

oll meetings resulted in

relatively lengthy conversations.

CHEPNYSH made no bones about getting, RIZZUTO's name correctly

(most Soviets do not seem to bother and usually act as if they do

not remember the name). He will talk, intelligently, about almost

any topic, controversial or not.

He is very intense, as if be is

working hard to remember everything that was said, and every quirk

r..

ET

201-261813

---

## Page 33

_CALLE SECHETARIAT DE SELNATION

PLASCHANT DOTIALO

ADVANCE COPY

issuco

IJNOTTED

B81a

AT:

CLASSIFIED LESSAGE / TOTAL COP3

63000

on Filled In)

WE LINAR

DEPROCUCTEN OY TMS COPY PEOMIDITEO

SCENE YES

ONO

CLASSIFY TO CS FILE NO.

FED 25 10 35122230

ROUTE:12 AND/OR INITIALS SE

AE THOIS UNIT

21 PER TOP •IIZ

D FRE RD

O RETURiA TO

FILE, VR DDP ADAR CAC C/CI GWHZ

BRANCH

0182

SE CRE I 2523147. FEB 70 CITE NEXICO CITY 2565

DIRECTOR -

RYBAT REDIOP AEMIDRIFF FJPASTIME

REF:

2557(1 031735)

25FE3 11:031930

10 PER REF, AEMIDRIFF CONTINUED REVIEW OF PHOTOS WITH HQS

DEBRIEFER AND LITEMPO-11, REVIEN OF 83 PHOTOS (INCLUDING WIVES:

DURING 20 AND 21 FEBRUARY SESSIONS PROVIDES FOLLOWING HIGHLIGHTS IN

ADDITION TO OTHER INFORMATION WHICH WAS ALREADY KHOWN:

VALENTIN BAKULIN: CHIEF OF ONE OF AEGRIP SECTIONS.

EXPERIENCE IN LATIN AMERICA FROM PRIOR TOURS BRAZILEEANO

ARGENTINA.

SOB

LEV GOLOUZOV: WORKS UNDER BAKULIN WHICH TES KOmInA

AEGRIP STATUS PREVIOUSLY SUSPECTED). WHILE DRUNN

AND

INFORMED AMIDRIFF SHE BEING SENT HOME.

TRISH

SERGEY PROVOROV: WORKS UNDER BAKULIN. AEGR

KATHY

BiANA

WIKOLAY SOKOLOV: CHIEF OF REFERENTURA.

DARS

LYUDMILA SHAPOVAL OVA: WORKS UNDER SOKOLOV

I REFERENT URA:

SERVED IN CUBA AT ONE TIME.

ALEXANDR KOZLOUS WORKS IN IN UNDER SOKOLOV. TE

CHARGE OF PHOTO PROCESSING AND MICROFILMING.

SESTORS AT

INTERNAL SECRITY AND AS WATCHDOG. HAPPY AD

RETURN TO

AGREEACLE PERSON

PAL. DISSEM

RYBAD

C3 COPY

---

## Page 34

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSSIINATION

PLECSINUNDT NOTIFES

NOVANCE COPT

₴

PER

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

TOTAL COPIES

SECRET

(hen Filled In)

REPROJUCTION OF THIS COPY FROMIDITEO

INDETE

I ro

CLASSIFY TO CS FRENO.

X-HEF TO CE FLE NO.

O TILERS O ACTURE PO

ROUTING AI:DIOR MUTALE SELI

DISSEN BY

ACTION WHIT

ACTION NO.

BRANCH

FILE, VR

PAGE 2

2565 SECRET

VLADIMIR ISERADZE: WORKS IN REFERENTURA BUT IS ALSO UNDER

ORDERS OF BAKULIN. TIMID, DOMINATED BY WIFE.

•YURIY ROMANENKO: WORNS IN REFERENTUIN, FREQUENTLY ACCOMPANIES

PAVEL KOVALEV OUT AT NIGHT. DRINKS A LOT AND HAS TROUBLE WITH

WIFE BECAUSE OF IT.

YURIY KUPLYAKOV: HAS JOB SIMILAR TO KOLONYAKOV'S. VERY

IMPORTANT PERSON WITHIN EMBASSY AND HAS ACCESS TO REFERENTURA.

VERY REFINED AND CULTURED. MANY LICHU CONTACTS THROUGHOUT

MEXICO AND ALSO CULTIVATES FRIENDSHIPS WITH DIRECIORS OF

MUSEUMS, LIBRARIES AND OTHER SUCH INSTITUTIONS.

BORIS CHUYKOV: VERY EXPERIENCED SEEVS TO HAVE PERFORMED:

ERILLIANTLY IN PAST WITH NO FAILURES. SOMETHING OF A LADIES®

MAN AND HAS, ON OCCASION, BEEN MIXED UP IN INTERNAL SCANDAL.

ENAMORED OF SOKOLINA. TRAVELS FREQUENTLY THROUGHOUT MEXICO.

VLADISLAV XORMUSHKINS AEKICK. SERVED IN BRAZIL, SEVERAL

MONTHS IE FRANCE AND FOUR TO SIX MONTHS IN ARGENTINA. SPEARS

SPANISH, FRENCH AND PORTUGUESE®

VALERIY KOSTIKOV: AEKICK

CLEG KOROLEV: AEKICK

VLADIMIR MAKAROV:. NOT CERTAIN, BUT PROBABLY AGRIP. HOWEVER,

BREQUENTLY ACCOMPANIES BOLSHAKOV. APPEARS COLD AND CRUEL. ONE

SECRET

---

## Page 35

302 3270

LES CAULE SECRETAMIAT DISSERSNATION

FONTAINT NOTITIO

ADVANCE COPY

RASUEO

SLOTTEO

CLASSIFIGD MESSAGE

TOTAL COPIE

SECH

(When Filled In)

REMRODUSTION OF THIS COSY PROMIDITES

BRIDEXI

IvEs

CLASSIFY TO ES FUR NO. ¿

B-RET TO CE FILE NO: M

fILE RO

D RETURN TO

ROUTINO AND OR BETIALS-SE

DISSEM DY.

1) ACTION UMIT

JETION NO..

. PER.

BRANCH

FILE, VR

PAGE 3

2565 SE

CRET

OF AEMIDRIFF'S WATCHDOGS DURING JANUARY 1978. SPENT TIME IN

RED CHINA-

IOAKIM BULAVIN: ASSIGNED TO COMMERCIAL OFFICE BUT DOES NOT

PHYSICALLY WOK THERE. PROBABLY WORKS FOR KOLOMYAKOV, AEKICK

REZIDENT.

SERGEY VERBENYEV: RIS, SERVICE UNKNOWN. PERFORMS INTERNAL

SECURITY AND. WATCHDOG FUNCTIONS.

VLADIMIR GORDEYEV: BELIEVES HE AEKICK WORKING FOR SOKOLOV

AND KOLONYAKOV.

PAVEL KOVALEV: CONSIDERS HIM DANGEROUS. SPEAKS SPANISH

• AND ENGLISH ALMOST WITHOUT ACCENT. HAS MANY FRIENDS IN

GOVER NACION®

ANATOLIY STEKLYANNIKOV: BACHELOR. BODYGUARD FOR KOVALEV.

'WORKED FOR SECRET POLICE IN MOSCOW AFTER THREE YEARS IN MILITARY.

WILL RETURN MOSCOW SOON

KONSTANTIN BOGATYREV: CHIEF OF ALL GROUPS OF MILITARY INTEL

IN MEXICO. (AEMIDRIFE PREVIOUSLY INDENTIFIED CHMYKOV. AS AEGRIP

CHIEF. STATION BELIEVES CHMYKOV PÖSSIBLY CHIEF FOR THOSE UNDER

CIVILIAN COVER BUT JUNIOR TO BOGATYREV.)

OLEG SHEVCHENKO: SPEAKS SPANISH WITH ARGENTINE ACCENT. THIS

IS FIRST IOUR IN LATIN AMERICA.

SECRET

---

## Page 36

CAPLE SECRETARIAT DISSERINATION

PERSWUNE RETITIES

ADVANCE CONT

ISsUED

AT:

LESSIFIED L'ESSAGE

TOTAL COPIES

SECRET

GROUTE I

10645-49 8990 RIPPe

(Wen Filled In)

FEFPODUCTION OF THIS COFY PROMIBITED

INDEX:

D YEs

DRO

CLAIHFY TO CO FILE NO.

R-REF TO CE FILE NO...

D FLERO D HETUNE TO

DISEAL BY

"HETION UNIT

ACTION NO.

thirtee teaded

FILE, VR

PAGE 4

2565 SECRET

VALENTIN LOGINOV: ALTHOUGH HAD AFFAIR WITH AEMIDRIFF,

RECALL SIX MONTHS EARLY WAS DUE TO SOME FAILURE AND NOT TO

AFFAIP .

VALERIY SOKOLIN: RECALLED SIX MONTHS EARLY DUE TO SOME

FAILURE ALSO.

VIKTOR IVANOV: LIKED TO LIVE WELL. OWNED Z? SUITS AND ÖFTEN

CHANGED TWO OR THREE TIMES A DAY. GOOD FRIEND OF OCTAVIANO

CAMPOS SALAS, SECRETARY OF INDUSTRY AND COMBERCE. NOW IN MOSCOW

IN CHARGE EXPORTING FURS FOR SOYUZPUSHNINA.

BORIS KAZANISEV: SERVED IN CUBA WHERE HAD SOME PROBLEM OR

FLAP DUE TO DRINKING AND HIS CHARACTER. DOMINATED BY WIFE WHO•

INFLUENCES MANY OF HIS DECISIONS. WIFE WORKS AS TYPIST IN

REFERENTURA. SHE VERY JEALOUS OF HUSBAND, YET FLIRIS WITH

YOUNGER OFFICERS WHICH HAS CAUSED MARITAL PROBLER.

FEDOR YEVESYEV: BELIEVES HE RIS, PROBABLY AEGRIP. BODYGUARD

FOR AMBASSADOR AND CURRENTLY FOR CHARGE. BELIEVES HE HAS NO

OTHER FUNCTION®

MIKHAIL DAVIDOUSKIY: GRADUATED MFA ACADEMY ABOUT THREE

YEARS GO, MEXIC IS FIRST POST• AEKICK. HAS ACCESS TO:

REFERENTURA• FREQUENILY ACCOMPANIES KAZANTSEV AND YEVSEYEV.

---

## Page 37

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATIO:

FIRCONUIET NOTIFIED

ADVANCE COPY

ISSUED.

HOTTIN

ELSSIFIED MESSAGE

TOTAL COPIES

SECHEY

(When Filled In)

BEPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROMIDITED

DrEs

O No

CLASHFT TO CI FILE NO.

X-PICE TO ES MILENO.

I RETURN TO

GOUTING ANDIOR INITIALE-BEIN

I DIESELA BY _

LETION UNIT

LETION NO.

PER

BRANCH

• FILE, VR

PAGE 5

2565 SECRET

HAS MARITAL PROBLEMS DUE TO NEUROTIC WIFE AND FACT HE HAS,

BY

FORMER WIFE, EIGHT YEAR OLD CHILD WHO MENTALLY RETARDED FROM

INFANTILE PARALYSIS®

DMITRIY DYAKONOV: MEMBER OF CENTRAL COMMITTEE CPSU.

BELIEVES HE AEKICK. HAS MANY FRIENDS IN GOBERNACION AND RELACIONES

EXTERIORES. SERVED IN ARGENTINA AND BRAZIL. MORE REFINED AND

INTELLIGENT THAN PRESENT CHARGE, KAZANISEV.

* BORISKOLONYAKOV: AEKICK REZIDENT, THIRED IN IMPORTANCE IN

EMBASSY, GRADUATE ACCOUNTANT, SERVED AS ACCOUNTANI IN

1. USSR ,

ARGENTINA

AND FIRST TOUR MEXICO, RETURNED TO MEXICO AS REZIDENT.

VERY STRAIGHTFORWARD, STRONG PRINCIPLES. DRINKS MODERATELY.

CLOSE FRIENDSHIPS WITH ARGENTINE DIPLOMATS. FREQUENTLY TRAVELS >

WITH KAZANISEV, SOMETIMES WITH BOL SHAKOV.

YEVGENIY FEDIN: FOURTH IN IMPORTANCE IN EMBASSY.

FREQUENTLY WORKS IN REFERENTURA. HAS FEW FRIENDS WITHIN EMBASSY

BECAUSE OF FICKLE CHARACTER, AND FACT KE AT ROOT OF MANY INTERNAL

INTRIGUES. BY SENDING ANONYMOUS ACCUSATORY LETTERS®

VALERIY NIKOLAYENKO: AEKICK. IN CHARGE OF ASSIGNING

MOUSTAG AND FURNISHINGS. SPENT SIX MOUTHS IN CUA AS ENFLOYEE,

RATHER THAN DIPLOMAI, BEFORE MEXICO. ATTENDED MEA ACADEMY IN

MOSCOW •

2. FIlEs 291-935879 GP-1 SECRET

---

## Page 38

Notes from the Debriefing of MEMIDRIFF - 20 to 23 February 1970

13) « Valentin lasilverich BAKULIN: Chief of one grour of military intelli-

gence. Speaks very good Spanish. Has experience in lilin America

having been in Brazil and Argentina before l'exico. Officially has the

position of Ist Secretary in the Soviet Inbassy. Is cultured and

intelligent. Knows how to get along with any kind of person. speals

Spanish and English. Prinks little hecause he has a stomach ailment.

4) Yera Ivanovna BAKUI.INA: His wife. Speaks very little Spanish.

15

clever hy nature. Helps her husband a lot.

---

## Page 39

14-00000

DISPATCH

CLASSITCATON

SECRET

Chief, SB Division

200

Chief, WH Division

Chief of Station,

AW REDTOP AEGRIP

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

Valentin Vasilyevich BAKULIN (201-261813) P-ut Ep 23

PROCESSING ACTION

LARKED FOR DIDEKIC

NO BIDENTIG REQUIRED

ONEY QUALIFIED DESK

CAN INDEE DIDDING

MICROFAN

MEE MicRouti

Subject, accompanied by his wife, Vera Ivanovna, returned

from home leave in

the USSR on 23 October 1969:

They tracelled

n Air Fiance flignt Tut. They had departed on home leave on

& Beptember 1969.

son, Vladimir, who had spent bis summer

vacation in Mexico, returned

to Moscow at that time with his

parents.

Prace M. Fa

uniland

Pox/Sohn A. PROBERT

ribution:

C/SB

1

= C/WH

OPOSS REFERINCE TO

ES CORY

DESPATON SYMBOL AND BURGER

НИМА - 38045

CASIFICATOR

BBCRET

Excisied bra adarate

6720: 50: 1d

30 October 1969

HOS FLE MUMBER

201-261813

---

## Page 40

TO

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION

BBCBET

Chlof, SB Division

Cator, HE Division

chial of Station,

10:010P

Burner Vreations in Barico for Soviet Children

ACTION REQUIRED - REPERENCES

PROCEISING ACTION

MARKED FOR BEDEUNG

NO REDEXING RIQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED DESE

CAM AIDEE DIDDING

MACROFILE

IrIns BoriSOvne RAJANTAVA, daughter of Bor18 Aleksandrovich

KAZANTESV (201-028975), Arrived in Hoxico at the eni of June: 1969

to spend hor gunnar vacations vith her parents in Mexico City.

Irins, born 13 August 1959, sas in Foxico City until & Septomber 1000,

whon the departed for Boscer.

(201 361813).

Both fries and Vlodimir raturnod to loses on & September.

roy travelled ta tha cospany of the Valentin Vasilyevich

DANILI and Bvyatoslay Federovich AUxiEZBOV (201-087328) faallios,

WID EDIO departing lenico on hone leave.

tor/J0hn A. PRORKET

7083

Oletributioa,

3 - C/SB

LEOL AND PERAT

Tile the

201-261813

DART

su Databar 1869

GROUP. 1

tended tron tracatis

gaung at

---

## Page 41

14-00000

REQU

ARTMENT OF STATE

SPCOND PFOUEST - Original

FOR BIOGRAPHIC DATA

15. Cated 9/25769

TO:

Valentin Veilyeuda BAKINN:)

ALIASES, NICKNAMES

NOME ADDRESS

SEX

CITIZENSHIP

Soviet

RAJE AND PLACE OF BIRTH

Feb 9, 1925

Moscow

MANITAL

SPOUSE'S NAME

STATUS

bangs.

OCCUPATION

•PREVIOUS EMPLOYERS AND FORMER ADDRESSES (Approsimoraly

NAME AND ADDRESS OF. PRESENT EMPLOYER

120 k

Second Secretary of th

Port t Embassy to Mexico

Aliens to transit the US enronte to Mexico:

Accompanied by wife - Vera Sept 27, 1927

Cut 2i, lie!

Hoscow

REF

11/5/49

OFFICE

Visa Uffice

DATE

9/24/69

NAME OF. SUAMITTING OFFICER:

SCA 8V0: B:Tune an

FOR USE OF OTHER OFFICE(S) OF THE DEPARTMENT OF.STATE

•FOR USE OF DEPARTMENT OF STATE ONLY

TYPE OF: DEPARTMENT PROGRAM

BAKUNIN, Valentin Y•

H. A HOM 1869

fore information conceani.

Subject you are Referred

to C508-3/211,448 dabeal

2. July 1962, Subgret: BAKULIN

Valentin Vasilyevich wh.

was predienty sent to

your. Dept.

12/11/69

SC

---

## Page 42

DEPT OF STATE TELEGRAM

DATE: 23 SEPTEMBER 1969

MOSCOW 5167

UNCLASSIFIED

SUBJECT: VISAS BEAR - TRANSIT TO SOVIET EMBASSY

MEXICO

---

## Page 43

2-4

FBI DOCUMELT

LANDING CARDS

DATE: 19 SEPTEMBER 1969

CLASSIFICATION: NONE GIVEN

SUBJECT: EAKOULINE, VALENTIN VASILIEVICH

---

## Page 44

DEPT OF STATE TELEGRAM

MEXICO 4772

DATE: 29 AUGUST 1969

UNCLASSIFIED

SUBJECT: VISAS HORSE VALENTIN EAKOULINE

---

## Page 45

14-00000

TO

DISPATCH

CLASSICA TON

SECRET

Chief, SB Divisten

Chief, Wi Division

FRON

Acting Chief of Station,

SER REDTOP AEGRIP

Home Leave of Valentin Ve BAKULIN (201-261813)

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

XX

PROCESSING ACTION

MAILED FOR INDEXING

NO EIDORNG REQUARED

WINTEN

CAN JOGE INDEXING

MICROPUN

Attached are the US transit visa requests and photographs

hig wife, and son who plan to leave Mexico on 2

Sentember for Mocow.

Also traveling with them will be the

daughter of Boris A. KAZANTSEV (201-028975) who bas spent the

summer visiting her parents.

2.

The group plans to travel via Aeronaves de lexico to

New York on the second, continuing via Aeroflot to Moscow on

4 September.

Loan

rigmendi

Or/horace E. PRALLETT

Attachment:

Visa requests b/

MICROFLMED

SEP. 1 0 1969

DOC, MICRO. SER

Regaaliena's photo dent do

Distribution:

C/SB w/att h/™

C/WH

"/o att

LAtt

€3520

Exclausiticanaa

NEPHIE FO

201028975

DESPATCH SYMBOL A

HMMA-37770

CASSUFICATICO

SECRET

DAXE

28

August 1969

NOS PLE NUMBER

201-261813

---

## Page 46

PHOTOS

---

## Page 47

Louthe!

3P

8/29

Tet

чої

ri:.

No. 241

La bmbajada de la Unión de Repúblicas Sociaitêtas So-

viéticas saluda muy atentamente a la Embajada

de los Bota-

dos Unidos de América y tiene el honor de solicitar que se

sirva extender las visas de tránsito en los pasaportes dip-

lomáticos del Sr. VALENTIN BAKOULINE, Primer Secretario de

la Embajada de la URSS en México, y su esposa VERA BAKOULI-

NA con su hijo Vladimir,

nacido en 1954, Y. Srta. Irina KA-

ZANTSEVA, nacida en 1953.

Las personas mencionad»s salen de México a Nueva York

1la 3 de septiembre ce 1969 por la Cla "Aeronaves de s€-

sico" y van a continuar su viaje ronto a Mosca el dia 4 a

La Entajada dE La URSS agradece de antemano la area-

cida que la Embajada de los Estados Unidos de Américr ten la

a bien de prestar a esta solicitud y aprovecha la opc-turs-

dad para reiterar las seguridades de su más alta y disti,-

gulda consideración pif

México, D.F., "/Su de agosto de 196?

Jin.

A LA BABAJADA DE LOS ESTADOS UNIDOS

DE AMERICA

MICROFILMED

SEP 1 0 1969

8/2b

COệt

H/wAlt 1te

HUMA 37770

201261813

---

## Page 48

1a-no0n

APERAIDO

• BARLOLIN

Vesamor

BOOUMENTO DE MAN

peséparte etopleinstice

cal. Zamora #69-4C1, Méxice, 16. DF.

VIOLA Y LUGAR DE NACIAENTO

11%366

LAmie OJ0S

ESTATURA

DIA

30

UDAD

uts 1954

TEZ

SEMAS

Bia3

SENO

espado que la pe

astristle

PEQUESION

luso det

diplomatice

a rose de ideando di paria al de co de oro i

Apues a to presio setenta

entrado por mi y un solierral los flemas

entrado d,1,49, sei

transite

a que Ensenas parte de le

pistas del sobre

+9985-2578949349

• Аррог

8o. 88-8103

APELLIDO

FICHA Y LUGAR DE NACIMIENTO

CASTILO TEIOS

ESTATURA

SEXO

PROFESION

diploinatica

SEGUNDO NOMBRE

DOCU: TO DE VIAJE

pisopeite dipt-marce

DIA

2:%.

LIDAD

MES

AÑO

igat

SENAS

fres

bar: de a 5655 serda - 4.569

Fortrade - 29691

trasisite

e los il EX. s al llagar el preso de samata un dose des que

tamista

869 73-257 ISPARINA

Valentin V. BARCILINE

ABELAI

OJOS

1M052 es

ESTATURA

SEGUNDO NOMBR

DOCUMENTO DE VIAN

paseperte dopluinstrea

DEA

g

ANEs

NACIC. CALDAD

15÷5

SETAS

59E49-456

-transto

as ta astrale se derent

• п і решес

Toridin

Fos legionad

---

## Page 49

APELLIDO •

MKAZANTSEVA IRINA

RESIDENCLA

SEGUNDO NONSE

DOCUMINTO DE VRAVE

pasaparte deptimistieé

Ez. Tacubaifi tin;

PEONA Y LUGAR DE MACIAIRNTO

: Her,60, 11,D.F.

LABELLE

OJOS

ĐIA

-73

MADOMALDAD

MES

AÑO

7533

IrEZ

SEMAS

Blast

SEXO

D M

DY

ESTATURA

PROVESION

deplematica

DURACION I PESPOSITO DE ESPARCLA EN LOS EL U

entreda -24.69, sofic -4.9.16

transite

redar el da

soda to desouro pie

was azaler de les E.

que fares

resence.

Lapis-

Fana dal solicite

868 75-957 839259

fara Approvad

0 1 49780

201-261813

---

## Page 50

14-00000.

BAKULIN, Valentin Vasilyevich

Official Function: First Secretary (Political)

Wife:

Vera. Ivanovna

Residence: Zamora 69-401 (Condesa)

Car:

38 DC (69 Green Ford Torino GT)

Intel: Statue: Known GRU

Beat ir. Mexico: Nov 1959 - Jan 1964

ANCOSAD

1. 4:

List of Soviets in Mexico passed out to

on 27 Aug69

GRU Case Officer who during first tour in.

Mexico handled two double agents.

One was an

LNERGO agent of whom he requested US Army

manuals and info on US Army bases. RVROCK

agent was used in US for locating dend drops,

meeting sites, and to mail letters.

No info

se intel acclvities on current tour 1o' 19

to AMCOSAD and has taken repres. *"unal trips

on behalf of Soviet Embassy, like to Veracruz

to meet Soviet oceanography ship.

Little known

about work within Embassy.. Speake good

ßpanish and has some Mexican friends. BARULIN'

wife alternates with KOLOMYAROVA as Commercial

Office bookkeeper.

P- 6059

---

## Page 51

SECRET

• JULY 1969

MEHORANDUM FOR THE FILE

SUBJECT: Valentin Vasilyevich BAKULIN (P 6059)

On 26 June 1969, LILYRIC reported seeing BAKULIN enter the Soviet

Embassy in the company of a young man whom LILYRIC Identified as BAKULIN's

son. The BAKULINs have one son, Vladimir born 30 Tunaury 105k uhe de-

presently studying in the USSR. Vladimir was in Mexico City vialting

his parents in the summer of 1968 for sumer vacations. There is no

Indication Chat EAKJLINs son i8 again in Mexico visiting. Nouetheless,

KILYRIC reported thie young man as BAKIN'& son.

ghf

p. 6057

SECRET

---

## Page 52

DEPT OF STATE TELEGRAM

MOSCON 2658

DATE: 11 JUNE 1969

UNCLASSIFIED

SUBJECT: VISAS BEAR

---

## Page 53

SUReECT:

8-2184, 6059

2235

36:23. 1903

,12-187

RECORD

12468

de05AD trip to Chinuanua and vinaaloa, 25-27 April 49

1.

Dy 11le and I and los. tu Stant vere tir only icericans.

among the

CO A COSAD members io fler to Chihuahua on 25 april

and thence

as in the attached itinerary. Participation was heavily

Festern byropean, with reiatively few Latin Americans and surprisingly

only. three

Soviets (all vith vives): CHIKHOV, POVORO%, and BaiULIl.

Other Blog types vere LUlAS¿ (poland) and DOSAI (Hugary), both vith

wives,

ip Cubansz. The trip.. was very interesting, and a resourding

SUCCesS.

2.

As usual, my corversations with the Soviets didn't amount

to much.

lone of the wives tad anything to say, and trey stuck to

eachother

11ke glue. PROVOROV (P-2183) speals only when spoker.

to and even tien he says nothing. I don't know my they sere his on

these things. BAKULIN (P-6059) is a real sonooth article.

He mixes

well, specs exeellent Spanish, but never discusses anytiing

controversial--the weather, the scenery, etc.. I's CHU of China

told me that lirs. Bakulli: is a very intelligent and vell-read toman.

(P-6235)

fy buddy

C5YKHOV/was of course sall over the lot. he is pocuiar

andp's charing but nooody has tie faintest idea what he is talking

about because he sreaks such arful Spanish. He wasn't up to his usual

kitess tricks of pouring dri nis for everybody. The three Sovs

actually

vere quiet and well-behaved this tine, probably because

...tney were

greatly outnuntered and all had their wives along. Escept

when CHicks was going around making poinüs, they stuc. pretty

nuch

together.

3.

hed a few brief con ersations with CHfiaiv on Friday,,

but sir. Oil ras iscarzet for that evens. The Cretive and

Chus shared a table for dimer, and'ir Gil reported the conversation

to me 1d

great detail the follong morning on the train. The rain

topic of

¿ conversation wad the Clinese-Soviet Lorder di spute;

---

## Page 54

and Chu took great dcligho in teling CuTaNY that the coviets iu! id

have buen waiter wia is they hed fit e CinG to siny in gua

But in chira. cumovisa point seered to be that the dispute

wue eve. tually be settied. de is a great one for ewing oil on

troubied laters, no latter were they are. hir. Chu said sat CHAiKKOV

I: no: only seclis hit out on occasions like this, there suzz sone

sort of diploratic function throws then together.

he never rakes

a lunch date. CHi believes that this is in line :iti: Soviet policy,

wich is to talk to Taiwan gious governent represe-Tatives ithout

being sxcuri conspicious about it. (ChitoV sat rest to 5112 IIIIS

at the Foreien Minister's lunch for the A COSAD Junta Directiva ur:

23 April and spent rost of the time talking acout the saie torici

or at lease tairs vinas charras matic ras delidug about.)..-

didn't see much or CY OV or the trair ride on Saturday

(he was in

the other car, andi didn't care to ris: life and jinio

to pass iron one car to the other. At one sight-seeing stop

I took a picture for hi: (vith his

caera) of hin pretending to rush

his wife

into the Barranca de Cobre. I kept telling them to back up,

but they

didn't go far enopgi. Dinner ves rather late that night (2330

hours to te exact)

didn't son up. GUYiHOV clained that sie vas

tired and

not hungry, bit I lorder if he just boid her to stay in

her room

I was lis target for the eveniz.. He sat rext to ne fre

were at long tables) and as he was at the end I was his only, a nver-

sation partrer. All I got out of it was a strainedi left ear.

The conversation rarely got into serious copies (once he said ke

were unking good propaganda in Carchoslovakia, to which I replied

that rogaga. da was hardly necessary sire the facts speak: for then

selves.

he sinply shrused atthis and cha sed the subject.) lie also,

apropos of

nothing that I can remember, started taiking of & SORGE ard

spies.

I went along iti the gag and told hin held better leave his

canera behind when he we went to Toroloba ro or he'd

be accused

of spying

on the port facilities. This was goid for a fe: chuckles.

He has brought un this topic before, and I can only assure it's is

way of te

-ing me that ne and I each

Kurs we're in the stre

---

## Page 55

-busiress, He also told ie that hold been in # New York once

several jyars ago on a courior trip to ta. soviet UN mission..=

didn't reilly urierstaid too joint is his stray.

"e sis caias

to be studyirg English several hours a weel with les. KUPLiArOV.

I didn's e test his Englien, vich cai only be worse then his a5paris,

if that'spossible. He vill be going on home leave t'is sumer

and will return for at least antager year. CYNEV had so real

explanatich for trefact tht to yany soviet resiles (freeloaders)

were missing fron this trip. le said that KAZATSEV. was in Guadalajara

on business, and that the otiars, lixe KUPLIAROl, jast couldn't gef

* away (LI:VOY indicates that KOLUSIR! OV and PROHODKO canceled out

at the last minute, reason nou stated.

5. DOSAI (P-12487), a very pleasant person, as is his iife,

is about to leave FCS. His wife is gleaving in a ronth, and he vill

follow a sunth after that. They both clain to be looking forward to

the teturn, although a more completely Westernized pair of Hungarians

I have never sein. I can only asse they expect another tour abroad

evertually

6. LIKASZ (P-12468) denoistrated shy Polack jokes are so lidel!

told and kelieved. The pad plone was hot when ve got on it, ard he

propoly tok off coat, tie, and sirt, and sat there in his unders irt.

I'l sure if he'd had a beer can he would have razahanic crushed it.

with one hand and thron it out the window mile flying at 18,000 feet.

7o HARRE, the Gerran, sOwed why Germans are still beloved

throughout the sorld. "onenow they were not called by the hotel on

Sunday norning.. They woke up on their own in rlenty of time, but

typical fraut fashion sat in their roun waiting for the call.

By the ti

e they figured the call light not come, the bus was ready

to leave,

so they got no breakfast. They got on the bus, vitent a

to Topolobaripo and rubber-necked wich the rest of us, an

then

announced that they were going to stay there to have breakfast.

Someone offered to angreshen to a rerdezy us point to meet the

bus, but even i tir that ve had to sait a good half hour. Tiey got

---

## Page 56

or the bi pluasantiy burping and picting their teith ard sat dour.

without a surd of apology. The oniy thing missing from this picture

was a pur e rade out of human stin for No. idios.

8i ephared a taxi froa the alecort Suraj evening sa tin the

tro Frero.

• cuples wo were along, wio vere ansious to jet back ard

ciseje the

clection results. They were pulling forDeaulie. I ronder

how nuch longer thayall be here.

---

## Page 57

CONTACT REPORT

SUBJECT

DAT? OF MEETING

: BESABER (P-8777)

: 27 February 1969

P- 6054

...l. In response to a phone call from Subject, I met

him. from 1515 to 1545 at his hotel. :

2o Subject told me that he's on the verge of bankruptcy

and thai this time He's not kidding. He has been unable to

pay his employees their full wages and, recently, the news-:

papers have begun attacking him as a foreigner, exploiter

of workers, ete. He seemed exceptionally cheery in spite of

the gloomy prospects and I indicated that I feel sure He'll

figure a way out of his problems. His one possibility is to

get the money he needs from "Baby" but the price is too

high: him. "Baby» would like Subject to divorce his wife

which he refuses to do.

3. The main thing on Sibject's mind was that he had

a Visit from Valentin BAKULIN (P- 6059) on Saturday,.

22 February, at the factory. BAKULIN brought Subject a

bottle of vodka and he bought about $600. (pesos) worth of

'Subject's products to send back to the USSR. He apparently

sent

some previously and he said they went over so well

that he wanted more. BAKULIN came with his wife and with

another Soviet couple but Subject didn't know their names.

BAKULIN said he's going to send Subject some little wooden

p-1a35

dolls. BAKULIN brought regatds from CHMYROV and from

LOGINOV, BAKULIN didn't have a card to leave with subject

cc: P- 6601

File:

P. 8777

201-261813

---

## Page 58

What

so he wrote his name and address on a scrap of paper for

Subject which Subject would like to have returned.

Xeroxed for BAKULIN's and Subject's file.

ho sub lego gave me a letter he had just received from

Wlodzimierz

STRZYZEWZKI, the mysterious Polish phoiographer

who had turned up unexpectedly at Subject's house (see

Contact report of 22 OCt 1468). Enclosed were a couple

of photos herd taken of Subject and his family. Subject

couldn't understand why the quality is so bad considering

that STR was passing himself off as a professional photog

and was loaded with equipment. Also interesting is the

fact that the letter arrived very soon after the visit of

Ambassador Mucinzan 1-077 ) durtis witch Suujero hai

groused about never having received a letter or the photos

the STR had promised. Subject is sure that MAJ must have

sent a telegram to Poland telling STR to get on the stick.

Timothy M. ARCHBOLD

P.S. I told Subject to direct his atention toward BEPAR

(P-660]) as soon as possible. I suggested that he might

arrange to be. Introduced through MAJ on the pretext Subject

had mentioned once before, 1.e., Subject's interest in seeing

some of Subject's grandfather' music presented in Medco.

He thought this sounded pretty reasonable in view of the

rapport he now ha's with MAJ while having no other natural

entree to BEPAN®

---

## Page 59

DISPAICH.

20047

1226-30223

10. DODMIC 12002227

dated, do civiades

3104: Chied 02 Gondlon, Kanaco City

2102202:

25:202

macho da Corded Todes Congies

•do: Forwarded acrowich aso voice samples of tho Sovioto listca

belon who are naozontly Fos

in Moxico on

tore PCS in

"exico.

voice sampics vero cut by Bonglus j. LaRiaLieS.

1.

Tateres

roilisvich EunuT: (201-201013) and wiio,

vera anacove

2.

Man: Dateovas DuNOVA (:1Ã0 0f 201-277535)

Zarty Alchaasdronics 2282Y (201-024050) sad wire,

Laitya 2000220723

2012T N602e80610a SWeraSON (201-0087-49)

3.

Go-wiliga-2000s 217902S lafor ex-202-38175)

Conrad!.

rovich HOMi (201-224207) ard Viio, antonin.

Vasilyov

S.

10.

10E15a AndOZOVIa IVIOVA (Viic 0f 201-245351)

ias ¿in¿Cans IELOVA (uile Of 201-020723)

Do:is Pavlovich KOLORaCT (201-107030) 22d wiic,

Attacknent:

voice sapples a/s

Distribution:

• C/ee w/ats t

EID11-26420

20 February 1969

Individual 201s as

IC/SB Grace N. PARKINiines

Chroco s/o at*

. C/IC

Francis J. COXes

-13

•11

3

040

0c2

W/O

23

2

a1

att

W/o

att

att

w/o.nit

in a ki.

a ti

nit

nt:

v.c.c.

CONTINUID

---

## Page 60

c011/70:03

D1674iC4

SECt

2. 7164005 2E 1052409500) did so,

14.. Borde Alchecacaories CICGLOY2OD (201-137574)

15.

bana Alceseysyne 1ALU0XaT4 (202-601600)

1Ữ.

17.

Bidold Ivanoven LASTUNNE: (201-106000)

Xual: Voodovich Rorixi0 (201-057C92)

13.

autara Anatolyayiel DhalBoy (201-200200)

i9.

Valouly Madinizovich SONOGET (201-790795)

200 ADAna Molocationna STORETA (vice ca 202-243005)

21, Mlaviiya do Minan (vado 02 201-703009)

covet's foremarters 301

1: 1s Icquoated that cuca voice samplo be filed in cach:

CAT.ON

Jeoparuco

PAGE TO

201

---

## Page 61

Prepared by Douglas J. FEINGLiSS in January 1965

Short sketches and personal impressions of the Soviet bibassy

peisonnel in lexico City.

BAKULIN - P- 6059

-Valentin Vasilyevich BAKULIN, 2nd Secretary, has a pleasant and

cultured voice. He seems to be quite hapny with his wife, Vera

Ivanovna, who has many women friends with whom she does a lot of

windou shopping. paulin l0 not known lee any outstanding vices

and 1s well liked by otbers.

His spanish is quite good.

---

## Page 62

CABLE SECRFPARIAT DISSEMINATION

PERSON/URIT NOTIFIED

IBBUED

BLOTTED

MAGISIED MESSAGE

TOTAL COMES ZI

SECRET

GROUF!

8$C20908 PRON NEIMATEL

Brittand ith balt

(When Filled In)

PA49800 KATE

REPRODUÇTION OF THIS COPY PROMIBITED

INDEX: D VES D NO

CLASSY TO FILE NO.

H-ALF TO FILE. NO

FiLE RIO ORET. TO

BEAT AND/OR INITIALS • SEEM BY

BRANCHD

DESTROY 81G

DISSEN BY 2K

ACTION

6 m

WH

RID COPY

117

SECRET 242245Z JAN

69 CITE

18852

DIRECT OR

24 Jay 69 IN 7 9 1 60

REDCOAT

1. REQUEST HQS RESOLVE OWNER SHIF REGISTRATION OF LATE

MODEL WHITE CHEVROLET 1968 TEXAS LICENSE PLATES

GWP 583• BELIEVE OWNER IS RESIDENT OF SAME BUILDING AS SUBJECIS

OF 201-268115 AND 201-2618130

SECRET

---

## Page 63

SUBBC?, Valentle Vallyevich BAKULIN (201-261813)

IMM 16540, 22 August 1968 requested the Station to "undertako

" aystoratie and 10 depth offert againat the Sorlot officials

Ilstod In separate cover attäehment.*

Ono of the offtotale Isited 1a the attachment 10 Subjecte

The depaton 1e Ellad 1a REDTOP OPS MIXICO 1 'au to 31 Poo 1968

5110 7 74-220-718

* 13:

---

## Page 64

14-000n

ro at

SECRET

(then

Pilled las

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

DOCUMEAT

ADENTIFICATION

AMIALY&T

BATE PROCESSEO

T. CROSD REFCURLO TO TASB PILE

RI FILE KO.

DISPATCH OR

SOURCE DOC. BrMbOL 10.

PO SOUECE COVPTORYA A.

DATE dF IaFO.

DIBSEGIRATED IH

DATE

DOCUMENT

DISPOSITION

TRANSFERRED TO

nI fILE H0.

PERTINENT INFORMATIOM

&- DATE

EVALUATION

BAKULIN, VALENTIN VASIL IYEVICH

201-261813

SEX

DOB ?

050-008-010

• НMMA-33844A01

1L JAN 68

OCC ?

SECOND SECRETARY RESIDENCE ZAMORA A9-

40Lo CAR 24 DA

R

6801220867

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

201

261

813

D- 87

867 eBe

SECRET

(8 - 801

---

## Page 65

14-00000

3.i

PATCH

PROLESSING ACHION

SECRET

ARKED FOR D

Chief of Station,

NO.

NO INDENING RIQUIRED

CHLY QUALIFILD DISH

CAH JUDGE INDEXING

FROM

Chief, SB via Chief, NH

MAGO REDIOP

MICROPM

Soviet Contacts in Mexico/Valentin Vasilyevich BAKULIN (201-261813)

MIRON REQUIRED - RIFERINCES

REFERENCES:

A.

3074

B .

HMMA -31320, 13 February 1967

1967 was reviewed

With Subject's PCS return to Mexico, the SPR prepared in early

and the following Headquarters traces on certain of

his contacts were developed for incorporation into Mexico City

Station files and possibly further investigation as warranted:

Contact No. 6 - DI. Ricardo ALVAREZ del Castillo

Subject has 201-242295.

On 6 July 1955

Subject applied for a U.S. visa.

He was

reportedly involved in negotiations with

the Soviet Embassy concerning the purchase

of some paintings.

Contact No. 21 - Fnu FORTINO - Possible traces as follows:

I. Uttavio PORTINO, born & January 1923

at Rossano, Cosenza, Italy.

2. A Joaquin FORTINO aka Fortino JOAQUIN.

Mentioned in TMM-2056, Page 11.

(This

document not locatablr in Headquarters.)

3.

Pierina FORTINO, born 1905 at Torino,

Italy.

Attended Vienna Peoples' Congress

in 1952.

"4.

Serban FORTINO (201-279767) , born 1924

in Rumania.

Graduate of University of

Bucharest Medical School. Reported to

be disaffected and very unhappy in Rumania

in 1960.

Contact No. 32 - Raul LOPEZ Calvillo - Possible races as follows

CHAS REFERFICE TO

1. A Raul LOPEZ Coutino, employee of the

National Railways of

Mexico who has a

brother, Pedro, who's a Communist and

CS COP'I

201-261813

DESPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

HNMN -15942

CLASTIFICATION

SECRET

DArE

BC NoV en

14 November 1967

HOS FUE HUMBER

201-261813

ORIGINATING

1-SB/O/WH

I - SB/CI/G

1- WH/1

1-RID

OFFICE

SB/O/WH

law

j0. 6412

COORDINATING

OFFICE SYMBOL

C/SB/O/WH

SB/CI/G

DATE

is Nov

161061

DEST

ABSTRACT

INCEX

OFFICE SYMAGL

C/WH/1

DATE

RELEASING

OFFICER'S SAGALATUNNE

ToKe

53

USE PREVIOUS LATION.

AFFED. B-86

180)

DISPATCH

---

## Page 66

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

CLASSNCATION

SECRET

Contact No. 32 - Raul LOPEZ Calvillo Continued

SPATCH SYMBOL AND FUMBLA

НИМИ - 15942

lo a sister, Angelina, who in 1953

subscribed to

"Nueva Polonia'" a monthly

bulletin of the Polish Legation in

Mexico City.

2. A Raul LOPEZ (no matronymic) who in 1966

held a position of leadership within the

Communist Spartacus League, which is one

of the most important. Trotskyfst

organizations which follows the pro-

Chinese Communist line in Mexico®

3. A Raul LOPEZ (no matronymic) who in 1967

was a member of the Coahuila State

Committee of the Bolshevik Communist

Party of Mexico.

4. A Raul LOPEZ (no matronymic) who on 21

March 1967. attended a film showing and a

small cocktail party at the Soviet Embassy

in Mexico City. LOPEZ is possibly a UN

employee.

Contact No: 34 - Maria Victoria ALVAREZ de MURGA

First reported as being landlord to Soviets

in August 1952.

In 1955, her brother-in-law,

Jose Maura de MURGA y Serret, occupied Apt.

No. 5 in the building (Cuautla 161).

Contact No. 40 - Esteban PICO Lopez

1. A reference exists to a Professor PICO

saka Jesus GARCIA Lopez.

This individual

was mentioned in HMM-563 (date unknown),

Page 16.

The document cannot be located.

2. A reference exists to an Esteban PICO in

connection with a document numbered

TMN-2625 of 8 February 1952 which concerns

"Second American Peace Congress."

review of this document reveals no mentio

whätsoever of any Esteban PICO.

Norma N. LETCHWORTH

Distribution:

3 - COS, Mexico City

FORN

$ 64

53a

USE PREVIOUS EDITION.

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

CONTINUEE

201-261813

PAGE NO

2

---

## Page 67

td-inaon

ertle da derida ! eed.

SECRET

(men

filled Ing

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

SUEJECI OT DOCUMENT

DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION

AMAL YST

B. DATE PROCESSEO

DI. CROSS AEFEHNED TO THIS FILE

RI FILE NO.

B. DISPATEH OR SOUACE DOC.

gYMBOL NO.

8. BOUACE CRYPTONTM D. DATE OF TNFO.

10. DISSENIMAYED IN

18. BATE

DOCUMENT DISPOSITION

18. TRANSTERRED TO

FILE RO.

PERTINENT INFORMATIION

& DATE

D. EVALUATION

BAKULIN, VALENTIN VASILYEVICH

201-261813

SEX M DOB ?

I CIT

?

OCC ?

• MEXICO

ZND SECY CULTURAL

050-008-010

HMMA-33386AOL

25 OCT 67

P12

R 6711150667

281-261813

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

867

SECRET

(7 - 001

---

## Page 68

SUBJECT

OF.

DOCUMENT

SECRET

(Men Filled In)

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

DOCUMENT

IDENTIFICATION

ANALYST

D. DATE PROCESSED

CROSS REFEARED TO THIS FILE

RI FILE NO:

D. DISPAYCA OR SOURCE

DOC.

sYMBOL

NO.

7. BOUNCE CHYPTONYM D. DATE OF

INFO.

TO. DISSEMINATED IS

DATE

DOCUMENT DISPOSITION

|8 $.

TRANSFERREO TO

•DI FILE NO.

PERTINENT INFORMATION

*. DATE

FYALUATION

BAKULIN, VALENTIN VASILYEVICH

LUI-26LUIS

SEX M DOB

201-192029

HMMA 33309

18 OCT 67

CIT USSR

OCC DIPLOMAT

• MEXICO

VIKTOR KHUKHOREV /201-192029/

HAS BEEN REPLACED AS SECOND SECRETARY

OF THE SOVIET EMBASSY IN MEXICO CITY

BY VALENTIN VASILYEVICH HAKULIN

WHO ARRIVEO PCS UN 3 OCT 67

R. 6710250372

2011261813

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

867

SECRET

87 • 481

---

## Page 69

14-00000

201-26143

INDES DIES DO

CLASSIFY TO PILE NO 0201 - 29068 /LASSIFIED MESSAGE

B-DCP TO FILE NOO GU-L1A022

PILE HIDD

BET

SECRET

DESTROr 6310

SOM/UNIT NOTIFICO

POTAL COPIES

5 04

30

ACTION

ADVANCE COPI

SB8

RID COPY

Dissure

FILE, UR WHP. WINKOGP. C. ClerS. ClIz FliFelenT FelenT3

3074

REPRODUCTION PROMIBITES

30/0/W//

TIME

SECRET 09234BZ

CITE

DIRECIOR

REDT OP

KEE A DIRECION SS0SE TO SEPT TOT

B. DIRECTOR 20278 17 JULY 1967

LIFIRE REPORIED PCS ARRIVAL FOLLOWING SOVS ON 3

OCTOBER 1967 VIANFABENA FLT 555:

A-emended

A. YEXATERINA SERGEYEVNA KOVALEVA (WIFE OF

381-0320682 WITH SERVICE PP 097580.

CiT:uSSE

amended

B. VALENTIN VASILYEVICH BAKULIN (201-261813)

AND WIFE, VERA. BAKLLIN SCHEDULED REPLACE

VIKT OR LUKICH KHUKHOREV (201-1920292 25

SECOND SECY.

SECRET

SECRET

110019168618

Bak lin

Kirer

the kaver

BSC

BSTRACT.

x.

MICROFILMED

NOV 1 5 1967

DOC. MICRO. BER

8201029068

8201-192029

10 Octil 7.

201-26/813

---

## Page 70

80J:"S ANDICE ANTiALS - SEEN ST

TOiAL COPIES:

SECRET

S3/0/Hri

6412

CHALI GAERAPALLAT DISENINATION

30

вт.

та.

NO iNaLy

CO fILS IN CS PILE 10.

588

RID COPY

• INFOs

202-261813

918 . VR

WH8i clairs, clicz

He la ena litts lito

Graterence rubes

SECRET

CITE DIRECTOR

20278

MEXICO CITY. INFOR

731'Z

CREDTOP

Kellins

REF: A. DIRECTOR 17399,

6 JUL 57%

P3

ABSTRACT

INDEX

B.

2047 CIN 65919)

ACCORDING

TO SENSITIVE HGS SOURCE BAKULIN AND WIFE

AUTHORIZEO ONE-YEAR & SIPLOMATIC VISAS FOR MEXICO.

"END OF MESSAGE

•"INFORMED STATIO: OF VISA REQUEST OF VALENTIN VASILYEVICH

BAKULIN VHO SCHEDULED TO GO TO MEXICO AS SECOND SECRETARY IN

SOV. EMBASSY.

C/ SB/0/WH

SB/CI/G_

C/WH/5

C/WH/ 1P

17 july 6.7

801-261813

C/WAl

COORBELATINS OFFICESS

DC/S

...SECRET.

REPRODUCTION SY OTHER THAN THE LSUING OFFICE iS PROMENaD.

it- com No

---

## Page 71

iNDEXA DIES DrO

CLASSIFY TO FILE NO 2U1-26/812 CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

X-REP. TO PALE NO. 3U1-CORILS

FILE

HIDD MET.

SECRET

250N/UHIT: NOTIFIED

TOTAL COPICS

47

REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

30/6/NH

ACTION

28

SB8

ADVANCE COPY

TOBE

EIRD COPY

SECRET 071950Z CITE

2017

DIRECTOR INFO

REDTOP

REF: DIRECTOR 17399

1. STATION HAS NO INFO BAKULIN PLANNING TO RETUR

TO MEXICO BUT WILL ATTEMPT TO CONFIRM REF REPORT •

2. NO INFO ON KHUKHOREV'S REPLACEMENT AS YET.

IN

APRIL SEVERAL SOURCES REPORTED KHUKHOREV LEAVING PCS IN

SUMMER AND WIFE LEFT FOR MOSCOW ON LA JUNE. HOWEVER LATEST

REPORT WAS 19 MAY STATEMENT TO LIROCKET -I THAT HE PLANNED

TO GO ÓN HOME LEAVE IN JUNE AND RETURN FOR ONE YEAR•

7 Ju. 67 R 06919

MICROFILMED

JUL % 5 1967

DOC. MICRO, SE

B. 201-0.28975

7 Oily 47

201-261813

---

## Page 72

MASSACE FORM

TOBAL COPIE

26°

BOUTING AND/OR INITIALE - SEEN EY

Quita

SB/0/WH

FaT-

54:2

DATEE

5

JULY 67

CARLA SECHSTANLAT DISSIAILATION

0r 32/21

€00:

FRA

5B8

SECRET

DASTAGE

RATUAN 1O

80

BRANCH

BIaS 800

DO CIDER

D

FILE IN CS FILA. 0G.

201-192029

201-261811

RID COPY

RIAN,

Todata and diana died

Traders mashe

faders

SECRET

28'Z

80

CITE DIRECTOR 1. 7 3 9 9

7

7

REDTOP

PERS:

(496208)

12999, 9 FEB. 6? (NOT SENT MEXICO CITY)S

B. HMMA -38320, 13 FEB 67 86

L. ACCORDING TO SENSITIVE HOS SOURCE VALENTIN BAKULIN

AND WIFE VERA REQUESTED MEXICAN DIP VISAS TO REPLACE KHUKHOREY AS

SKIN SECOND SECRETARY.

^2. SUBJECT IS IDEN WITH VALENTIN VASILYEVICH BAKULIN (208-261883)

"KNOHN GRU WHO PREVIOUSLY PCS MEXCO 59-64.

30. BAKULIN ORIGINALLY SCHEDULED FOR

AS SECOND SECRETARY.

CAN STATIONSASCERTAIN:

A POSSIBLE CENIAL

VISA&

ISSUANCE MEXICAN VISA?

SINFORMED MQS OF IMMINENT ARRIVAL BAKULIN INL

#FORWARDED SPR ON BAKULIN TOL

MORTAL SAGEN IN

fill into

801-261813

SS COPY THE N. 201f /9-20 29 C/SB/0/WH

C/WHX

C/WH

Lilles

BALSASINO APPICHE

S8/ COPS

SECRET

santasi denting

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

crystan na

---

## Page 73

DISPATCH

Chief of Station,

• CLASSESCATION

B CRB T

HER

XXX

Chief, 8B;

Chief, WH

FROH

Chief of Btation,

SUBUECT

REDTOP - Valentin Vasilyevich BAKULIN (201-261813)

ACTION REDLINED - REFERERCES

PROCESSING ACTION

Attachront

MARRED FOR INDEXING

HO ENCEXINO REQUIRED

ONELY QUALIFIED DEST

CAH JOGE IDE HING

MICROFILM

Attached is a Soviet Personality Report on Subjeet

covering his assigiment in Mexico 1959-1964.

forMillard C. CURTIS

Attachment:

SPR. (11 pages), E/

SPB (Page 12), DSC

Diatribution:

• COSA

v/att.,

A8 STATIO

• CSB

s/att..

A8

I SIATED

w/att.,

A3 STATED

MICROFILMED

FEB 2 8 1967

DOC. MICRO, SER

S/C ATT'D BY BI/AT

Ent ta1 trom antenatk

C5.9ndaz and

foalipsitiactica

Latis (13/0)

HEFERENCE 70

CS COPY

DESPATCH STMBOL AND

• HUMBER

ника - 31320

GLASSIFICATION

201-261813

DATE

13

EBRUARY 190%

BUS FOLE WIDER

201-261813

---

## Page 74

14-00000

INDEX DO YEs

• 1o

CLASBIPY TO FILE ND.

I-#EP TO FILE

1100

DESTROT

FROM

-ASSIFIED MESSA

SECRET

PERSON/UAIT NOTIFTED

COPIE!

REPROOUCTION PROMIBITED.

ACTION

S B8

ADEANCE COPY

INPO

FILE VR

wtt8

I: RID COPY

P, ADOR, RE, CHLOPS, FE FITNTZ

SECRET 0B14BTZ CITE

2999

8 FEB 67: 96208

DIRECTOR.

REDTOP LCIMPROVE

REF DIRECTOR 72618

1o SUSPECT GRU OFFICER YURIY A. BEGISKEY

(281-766534) DEPARTED PCS 5 OCT 66. HOWEVER,

15 DEC 6A ARRIVAL DATE INDICATES THIS ONLY SLIGHTLY

PREMATURE FINISH OF TWO YEAR TOUR.

20 KNOWN GRU ROBESPIER N. FILATOV (281-191575)

ARRIVED RIO 21 DEC 63. HAS BEEN TALKING OF DEPARTURE

FOR SOME TIME BUT NO FIRM DATE YET SET.

3. KNOWN GRU VALENTIN V. BAKULIN (281-261813)

DUE ARRIVE SOON. VISA APPLICATION RECEIVED EARLY

DEC 66.

AREA•

SECRET

BT

A• NO OTHER KNOWN MOVEMENT GRU OFFICERS THIS

SECRET

CONCERNED THE RETURN OF

ERU PERSONNEL

TO USSR

---

## Page 75

BICRIT

ATTACHENT, TO HUNA - 31320, DATED: 13. FEBRUARY 1987

BPR PREPARKD BY: Jonathan L. WENIN

DATE:

I February 1967

A7184882

201-261813

1. NAME: Valentin Vasilyevich BAKULIN (10).

8. DPOB: 9 February 1023 (10, 17), In Moscow (10).

Subject was once described as & Georgian (2).

3. CITISKNSHLP AND PASSPORT DATE:

Bosto aot 95-1068 & 150 1 1 od 3 July 1958 10

4. ETHNIC ORIGIN: Daknown.

5. OTHER NAMES USED:

Unknown. Subject 1a reported to have used

his own first nano "Valentin" with agents

(2, 15).

B. CURRENT POBITION:

T. RELATIVES:

Vera Ivanovna BAKULINA (3, 10) •

DPOB: 37 September 1927 (10, 17), in Moscow oblast (10).

, lasued 31 July 1950 1

Innguages: BAruLINA was reported to speak fairly good

Spanish 1n 1868 (3).

Employment: Iron at least October 1860 HAKULIRA voried

half days as bookkeeper in the Soviet

Conmercial Office in Mexico City.

She 1s

belloved to have held this same job until she

left Mexico in January 1064.

She appeared

to be a conselentious worker and several.

tines refused to leave the office when she

ms there on duty. (3).

Physical Deseription: During her tour in Mexico BASULINA

was short, rather stout, had blond

hair and occasionally vore glas80s

A phetograph 1s attached (80).

b.

Bon: Vladimir, born 30 January 1954 (10, 17).

W1th his parents in Mexico, 1959-84 (1, 16).

(21) •

SECRET

MICROFILMED

FEB 2 8 1967

DOC. MICRO, GER

Eastery ive artarata

---

## Page 76

B. LANGUAGES:

•. Spanish:

Subject reportedly spoke good spanish In

December 1959, shortly after his arrival

1n Mexico. (2).

bo English: Subjeot spoke fair Bnglish In August 1060 (3).

D. PHYSICAL DEECRIPTION AND PHOTOS:

Photographs of Subjoct taken during his tour in lexico

are attached.

10. PERSONALITY, CHARACTER, HABITS:

In Hay 1983, Subject was reported to be drinking to excess

and worried about his position and future (12).

Also In 1983

he vas reported to be very unprofessional in his handling of

one agent, drinking too much and discouraged about his job (2).

This information, obtained through two double agent canoe, we bot

otherwine contarmed.

1'• CURRICULIM VITAL:

"In 1950 & Valentin P'KULIN was mentioned as having spent several

months in the Philippines reviewing the political aituation and

aãe a report on it to a conferance in Prague which was concerned

J1th vorking out a plan of action for the Far Fant "

'(6).

8 Nov 1959

Subject, accompanied by his wife and sos,

arrived

in Mexico (1)

Subject was assigned

as kaployee of the Boviet Babassy (20),

replacing Viktor Lukich KAUKHOREV (201-192029) •

19 Jun 1988

Subject, his wife and son left Mexico on

hone leave (3).

18 Sep 1902

212 Jma 1964

Subject, his wife and son returned to lexico (1l).

subject, his wife and son left Mexico PCB (16).

Imbjoct was replaced by the mane KHUKHOREV

above (201-192029), who by then had been

promoted to the rant of Third Secretany (3).

NITELLICKICI ATILIATION: Known GRU

Subjeet as the case officer for tuo double agents, one of

whou has been handled by other GRU officers. On 24 February 1961

« chller me told that Bubject could be reached on telepbone

number 055, which was the nuber of the Military Attache Office (2).

On 28 June 190l, when Subject and known CRU officer Vindiate

Nikolagevich

TYNYAYEY (201-239295) ere In Ta pico, Subject

called the Boviet Embassy and asked to sponk to "one of our people,

Pavel or someone olse."*

Known GRU officer Pavel Fedorovich.

KOVALEV (201-029068)

took the phone and talked to BRYSHLYAVEY,

who sald to till their wives and Aleksand: Georglyevich aIDOROT ?

(201-018498, know CHU and presumed resident) that they would be

back in lexico City the following day. (3).

13. INTILLIGEICE ACTIVITIES:

On 30 December 1959 Subject ok over a double agent

from known GRU 01ficer Pavel Fedorovich KOVALEY (201-029068) •

When Subject want on bone leave in summer 1962,

the sgent was

not on 7 July 1962 and subsequently by. known CRU officer

8 E CRET.

---

## Page 77

14-00000

VAdia Aleksandrovich SHRIOK (201-278697)• On 30 Oetober 1062

BiRROR told the agent that he was now the regular cese officer,

although subject had by then returned to lexico. BarrOr left

Kircu AS, norever, an July i8o5, dod on 3 September 1963 Subjeet

again took the agent

over. When Subject left Mexico In January

1966 he gave the agent emergency contact arrangemente with one

"holas," who from

the description should have been Subject!

replacement, Viktor Lukich KRUKHOREY (201-192029) • Bince the

sgont then left Mexico, no contact with KHUKHOREV was made. In

sy 196d the agent was picked up by know GRU officer Yurly

Nikolayevich ISAYEV (201-741377) •

b.

In May 1963 1t was learned that Subject was handling

another double agent, on whon Subject levied requirements for US

Army manuals and infortion on US air bases: Subject last mooting

with this agent vas in October 1963.

The agent is not believed

to have been

turned over to anyone else.' (12, 13, 15).

Bo.

A third double agent, who claimed that be had been

recruited by GRU officer Pavel Fedorovich KOVALEV. (201-029068)

in aprius 1001, est ine nesting in a lexico City restaurant

on 26 August 1901; hovover, he was not contacted until the alternate

moting the following day,

when he was net by GRU officer Vasilly

Bergeyevich FROLOV (201-285603). On 26 August 1961 Subject and

CRU. 0ff1cer Vladimir Nikolayevich SMYSHLYAYEV (201-288295) vere

observed covering. the restaurant where the agent was, although

the agent was not not that day. (22).

d..

C1. below for Subject's visit to Morelia, 17-18

April 1961.

16.

RON-INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITISE:

From at. lenat May 1980 untll the end of his tour in Mexico,

Subject was reported handling the loan of documentary 11lma

from the Soviet Babassy, and as such he was nominally & member of

the Cultural Section of the Embassy (3, 4).: Subject took this job

over fron his predecessor, Viktor Lukich KHUKHOREY (d); and

KHUNDREY toot the same job on again when le replaced Subject

1= 1964 (3).

Subjoct's office hours in this Job varied slightly

but vere notnally from 1000 to 1200 bours on Mondays and Fridays (3) •

Bubject was nlso occasionally reported accompanying vialting Soviet

delegationg apparently as part of hia Cultural Section duties (3)•

While Subject was on home leave in sumer 1962, the loan of 11lm

une handled by Assistant Cultural Attache Mlkolny Sergeyevich

LEONOY (201-132139, known KGB) (3).

In June 1980 Subject was reported to be living in Antin

183, Apt. 8 (5).

On 28. August 1960 he noved to an unknown addres

(3). In June 1982 he was reported living at Cuautle 161, Apt. 7»

where he le belleved to have remained through the ront of his tow

1a Mexico (3).

Bubject is reported to have taken the following tripe

Mexico

ca. 23-28 Mov 1960

8 Doc 1980

Subject travelled with a visiting Soviet

parltamentary delegation (3).

Subject van 1n Acapuleo, probably attending

the Film Festival (3).

'BEGRET

---

## Page 78

ca, 14-21 Apr 1961

June 1961

Subjeet, Yevgunty Benenovich BOCHROV

(201-073041, auspect GRU) and Yurtr

Konstentinovich: AL KRANDROV (201-262022

suspect XGB) visited Morella and Guadalajara

(3) • On 17-18 April theso three Sovlots

vere reportedly in Morelis, where they

reportedly gave noney to Communiat students

with ordem to burn down the 08/Menican

Cultural Institute: this was done on

18 April after the Boviets had loft

town: (7, 9).

On 2a June 196l, Subject and teo other

Soviets vere reportedly. in Naevo Laredo,

probably to pick up a car (3), but the

also reportedly distributed propaganda (9)

On 28 June 1961 Subject and V. N

3 Deo 1962

Bubject was reported in Acapulco, appareatly

at the Film Festival (3).

During his tour in lexico, Subject vas reported constantly

coming and going. at the Soviet Babassy, even during the time

when he ostensibly had office hours:

In 19S9-60 Subject drove a

car with diplonatio tags # 97; then Iron November 1960 until hie

home leave In June 1982 tago A 01 (changed to D363 in January 1982)

(this car vas often used also by V.' 8. FROLOV); after his home

leave he first used D 363, which was then taken over by Aleksandr

BikEsylovich DENISOV (201-728491, known GRU), and Subject switched

to D381, Which was taken over by his succosgor, V. L. KUKHOREY (a1).

15. CONTACTS

Boviet Contacts:

On 8 June 1961 Subject was reported planning to take Georgi

Andreyevich to see the pyranidn; they uned the famillar form of

address (3).

This vas presumably Georgly Andreyevich MITEREY,

representative of the Soviet Red Cross who was then visiting lexico.

There lo little Information on Subject'e close Iriende nong

arthe soviets stationed in texico.

On 24 October 1961 Subjeet asked

Ivan Gavrilovich ALTERYEV (201-236701, known KGB) to go to the

movies vith his, but ALFERYEY

ould not re 3. On I'Decamber 196.

subject, Wasilly Mikhazlevich baOROV (201-067914, known GRU) e cu

Vadtn Aleksandrovich SHOK (201-278607, knows GAU) and posalblydil

201-018494, known GRU, probably resident) said that she had

rocolvei & letter iron subject's vile (3)

b. Non Bovlet Contacts:

ax.o

1). "jovidrio" (1.0.. Glasseye).

On 25 lay 1982 Ojovidrio called Subject, but Subject aald that

he would not be able to see him until after Subjeet got back from

home leave (3):

B8CR8.

---

## Page 79

Zat

по 10.

2). Donato LAU.

On 7 October 1960 Donato, who uned the famillar forn of

androne uith Subjoet, reked Babjoct for anne 11lus to be shown

"the cultural conter."

Donato invited subject to go to the

center that evening, but Subject was busy (3).

3). Jose Lula Lil.

On 27 May 1960 Jose Luis Informed Subjoct that his children

Balvador and Eduardo were sick with hepatitis.

Bubject said that

In that case they had better postpone "this matter" for a couple

of wooks. .

(4).

Pollah

Stanislav ADAOVICZ (P-2304, 201-198884), former/commeroial

employee 1a lexico.

On 20 July 1960 ADANDWICZ asked Subject 11 he could borrow

BOne

112ma for theis holiday on 22 July (3).

Javier I ALVAREZ, probably identieal with the Javier ALVARE

ega wo in lobe vas reported to do cleaning something at th

Bowlot Embassy.

On 28 March 1908 Subject called ALVAREZ at 12-33-26 to ask

about his typerriter (3).

with the Soviets as a medical consultant and later on a social

basis. No recent contact with Soviets known.

On 2 April 1960 ALVARR? reminded Subject that they had not

In the renort of Cuernavacs and invited Subject and his ife to

dinner (4). On 3 November 1960 ALVAREZ complained that he had not

gotten his lavitation to the I lovember reception at the Soviet

Embassy and said that subjoct was & very food friend of his (3).

On 22 May 1961 Subject and ALVARRZ made & chess date, and ALVARBY

Invited Bubjoet's family to come over alao (3). On 22 May 1963

Mrs. ALVARES unld that her husband wis travelling around latin

Amorien and complained that she had not seen Subject for & long

timg.

:. ALVAREZ wanted Subject to help a friend of her, Mr.

aYA, who wanted to travel to the U88R, and subject anid he

would take eare of her when she came to the Embassy (3). On 7

November 1963 ALVARIZ again compinined that he had not received

him invitation to the sovlet inbony reception, and Subjeet said

that he had it for him (3).

T). (Engineer) Inu ANG, not further identified.

On 14 September 1980 AICK, located at telephone 22-03-93,

the Civil Aeronautics 011100,

told Subjoct that he had been unable

to so the day before.

Subject said he would neet AIds and his

Inther that day

"there."

subject and AGE used the lanillar for

01 address. (3).

AP

". Sarione

ANGELL L. 0s Campoche, probably Identical vita

Mornando Enrique ANGuI, Professor In Carpeche Who In October 1968

um linted as an sctive member of the loviniento de Liberacion

Ninetonni, a pro Cuba Communist front organization.

---

## Page 80

12444-

On 15 August 1903 As contactod the soviet Embassy In

Mexico City, caying that ho was a friend of Subject's but that

tho last time bo had been in mexico City no had been told that

Subject had returned to the UBBA. ANGELI asked for subject's

current eddroes and aloo for Inforntion on travol co tag ISaB,

ans herva

tEp. (14)8

PRU ARREDONDO,

of the Natlonal Universy.

at the seat be not a to son Pa go subject

Located at telephone nuber

116

further identifled.

On 26. April 1963 Subject' asked AYALA to return the films he

had borroweds (3).

11). Enrique BORDES Mangol (P-1117), Mexican pro Comuniat

omployed as photographer with Prensa Latine,

the Cuban news agency

In Mexico. BORDES has taken photographs at Soviet Embassy receptions.

On 27 February 1962 Subject thanked BORDES for the photographe

and aakod what he owed bin, but BORDES said only a bottle of

vodka (a).

V18). (Architect) snu BREl

not further identified.

On 31 May

1961 BRIHA asked: Subject 1f he could see him the

/folloving day.

Subject sald he would be out of tow. BREN

naid ho rould call the following wook and perhape they could get

torother with their sven. Subject and BRIA used the, ta lilar

for of addross (3): On 23 Novenber 1962 BRINA, Fled to reach

Bubjoet, but he was out.

4(3),

13). BarIque CALDER

ornot further identified

0. 13 June 1961 Subject left a message ith CALDERON's olèter

t telephone 10 93-30 for Bubject to return the 111mm 63)

(This

phone vas, Tinted to Cenar GARADO

Garcia, Rev111 gigedo/5246)..

On 18 september 1962 subject called CALDERON at 16-25-79 min

king his to return bou

© super Autoe Seamn Arrando

311m (3) (Thla phone numbes ven Tinted

used cara.)"

= addressed

to hin it the lirn Maqui

Theise

818 in 1061 as Prancts

015

thin

AMADO

anados: (201-108887)%

omist 1Iving In Herico whoars Involved in ars snuge

ine for

merrillas. The

11r

ned byvAHADO dette.

TARADO I

reported to have

been Invoyidently clande

contact: 1n 1957

VIth BOTtO PAVIOVICH KOLOVANOV. (201-107668, noT KGB). AMADO

1s not dead.

On 38: Hay 1061 CAMP

hin the previous Baturdi

Subject that he had

CAMPOS askod

(sone

possibly 1133)

thit đay

before noon (3):

CASTILLO

podly i tried Portie once to 0 0000, both

On 8 July 1963 Ir. CASTILLO contaoted Subject in orderot

borrow some files for his vite.

the director of the Coyoncan

Ballet Acadeny On 23 July 1963 Irs. CASTILLO herself naked

Subject about, 111mg (3).

88 CR ST

---

## Page 81

-Tai

16) •

Marta de la Pas CERVANTES (P-8848), employee of Sabena

Airlines, In contaot with the soviet Babassy In regard to travel

arrangenente.

On 25 April 1963 CHEVANTES asked Subject about borrewing

11lmg (3)•

17).

Inu DIAs, of the firm Diar y Suares, not further Identified.

On 10 July 1903 DIA% asked Subject about a film on the

commonauts (3):

28). Fernando

DIAz, not further identified.

710201

On 25 August 1961 DIAZ arranged to come by and get a film

from

Subject (3),

Salvador DIAz do Sollano (Boyano), no other traces.

N6 201

From July 1961 to April 1962 Subject was frequently reported

in contact with Subject about borming films; usually Subject as

trying to got DIAl; to return 11lns he had borrowed (3).

110!

130).

Alojandro

"BRIETAIN Plores Sanches, no traces.

Nephew

of floracto FLORIS Sancher (P-133),

Hezican leftist profosmor who

has beon Iriendly with several Boviets.

On 29 July 1963 Horselo asked Subject why his nephew had had

trouble in borroving: 11lms from Bubjeet for Preparatory Bchool # S,

and subject said that he had to have a signature of someono bo

would be responsible for the return of the filns.

On 19 August

1989 Alejandro aaled Subject about borrowing filma (3).

I (21).

Thu FORTINO

no traces.

On 24 MAy 1963 FORTII triod to locate Bubject on behalf of

the Chilean Ambassador in regard to coples of speeches (not further

emplainod) (3).

pilo'La), Bauerdo fOARCIA Marques, Of the latIonal Valveralty, Do traces.

On 10 Pebruary 1981 Aleksandr M1khaylovich BROVKIN (201-185114),

cultural efficer of the Bovlet Embassy, contacted GARCIA, who knew

Subject, and noid that he vanted to dincuss an exchange of 11lm (3).

) Enrinno GARCIA Peror (F 8007, 201-334094), former Cuba

onul in lexico

71o 201

On 15 nrch 1963 GANCIA asked Subject about a file. GARCIA

mid a frlend of his would pick it up, because GARCIA van leaving

that day for Cubi. On 12 June 1963 Bubject said he would have

the fila ready for Subject's next trip (to Cuba). (3).

30)• Carlo MArIO VELASCO 011 (P-7643, 201-274071), Mexica

Communist sorking for Prensa Latina. Boviet press contact.

On 18 December Subject called Marlo OIL from downtown lexieo

City, saying he had the boot that Gll wanted. oil agreed to meet

Subject in ton minuten at the "game place no last tlie." (3).

185).

Carlos Hookez Bonero,

enployee of the Institute for lenien

unlan Cultural Exchange in Merteo City (JICE):

In 1963 and 1963 COM Romero m occaslonally reported

contaeting Subjoct in regard to f1lms, presumably for showing at

the JICHR (3).

7ii 231

On 22 August 1080 CONTALly aeked Subjeet about borrowing a

111s (3)

---

## Page 82

•BaueL GONZALEZ Casanova (P-11156), head of cinema sectior

Difusion Cultural at the Rational University, reportedly

leftlet.

ONZALEZ CAsanoe to return tiles he had borrowed (o

wetoner 1960 Subtect reportedly anke

28).

identified.

Pau GUTIERREZ Galindo, of Revista Cusuhtenoc, not further

On 5 Septenber 1900 GUTIERREZ Calindo reminded Subjoot that

they had not at & Soviet Labassy film showing.

GUTIERRE? Galindo

manted to borrow a film to show at his home and invited Subjeet

to come (3):

On 16 June 1961 GUTIERREZ Galindo invited Bubjeet

to go with "us" the next day, but subjoct sald he would be out of

town and would call when he got back. On 30 June 1961 CUPIERREZ

Onlindo said he wanted to see Subject and would come by.

JulY 1961 GUTIKRREZ Galindo said he would go to see subject the

most day. (3).

20).

Identifiod.

Inu HERHANDEZ, Of Department of Conmunications, not further

On 22 August 1961 HERRANDEZ told Subject that he had a ner

oftice,

and Subtect sald he would go there and have lunch with

subject one day.

Bubject sent regards to HERNANDEZ" son. (3).

•30) •

BELI TRADECKY (P-3640, 201-204056), forme: C&ech Commercial

Counselor in Merico and Identified Intelligence officer.

One AntaRta TRAPRA Cordoba

i no traces.

22020)

On 33 February 1984 IBARNA aakod at the Sovlet Babassy for

ian Invitation to the 23 Jebruary reception.

IBARRA described

himpelf as a good Irlend of subject's and of his friend "Yurly." (3).

§..

(Turdy night be CRU officer Furly Mikolayevloh ISATEY, 201-741377.)

1* 1283).

Raul TropEz Calvillo, no traces:

On 8 Janunsy 1962 Lopiz Calvillo contacted Subject, mying that

ho did not know how long he rould be staying in. lexico City.

He anked Subject to translate an article on hydraulie engineering

for hin that had been sent him fron the U38R. -

arranged to go to see subject that day (3).

83). (Engineer): Inu LOPEZ Costilla, not otherwine Identified.

On 10 September 1980 LOPEZ Costilla left a momsage that Bubject

had forgotten to send an invitation to (Ing.) Cerardo CRUICKSHAWK

(3), (Coment: The latter must be (Ing.) Gerardow *CRUICKSHARK ko:-

Carpts, member. of the Partido Popular Socialiata and reportodly

• Cosmunist.)

(US4). MATIR TICIOTIA ALVAREZ de

BURGA, lIe of Alvardo de MURGA

sorret, owners of the toure it Cuautin 161, where many Soviet,

Including subject, have lived.

in & August 1981 Mrs. MADA said that she nooded to see Subject

but he was in Cuernavaca for the day (3).

n 14 June 1989 Sibillar

went to the lunchs" house to any goodbye before going on hone

Jenve (5).

---

## Page 83

!

380, -

(Engineer) Jorge

OMARZANO, no traces.

On 27 April 1963 MAIZANO tried unsuccessfully to reach

Subject.

On 27 May 1963 he asked Subject for films for the

Instituto Libroi de F110s0118 (3).

M.711 2365- 1893010

lenors, no teacon.

On 11 August 1960 MONTERO wanted to borrow a filn from

Bubjoct (3).

1ll 37%:

Fernando

not further identifled.

On 28 AprIl 1002 OBIECON arranged to come see Subject for

a book (3) •

i Boatron!

(Arantost)) arios TORTiA Viramontos, no add1t10na1

On 13 May 1960 ORTEGA,

of the Colegio Nncional de Arquitectos

do Kantoo, saldtthat he would send someone over to pick up 11lmg

Iron dubjoct (4).

39) • (DE.) Inu PIREY Carels, not further Identifled.

On 17 June 1060 PEREZ Carola sald that ho had lent none 11las

that ho had taken in the U3BR to "Col. Onltrly" (probably Assistant

Military Attache Initriy Mkolayevich KATSOV), and that "ol

Inltrly" had told him that fubjoot would have them to return to

him. HERE Carcia arrangod to come to see subject (4)..

August 1961 FIR? Carcia tiled unsuccensfully to rench Bubjoet (3).

1405/ Bateber tpico Lopoz,

o 1dentiflable traces.

On 3 March 1001 PICO reminded Subjeet that they had not at

the Rod Arny Day reception and arranged to come to see subjoet.

On 4 April 1961 PICO arranged to go to get "the books" from

subjeet.

nos!

LT. Jullo erisco, Do tracos.

On 23 Septenber 1900 FLIEGO naked Jubjeet whether he could

toop the f1ln another week (3).

1110090 RA, work at lochel facty, sat otterrise

On 4 Soptember 1901 RNIEM wanted to retura a filn to Subject. (3).

A3). Guadalapo

Ears not turt inessed.

110761

On 19 February 1062 RODRIGUES mated to ple up a filn fro

Bubject fat

JAIL P, RODRIGUIZ Lot lexican Newspaper Correspondents Associatlos,

not otherwlee identified.

On 2 March 1062 RODRIGUKI vanted to get a 811n from Bubject (3).

BIC. ST

---

## Page 84

-10.

On 25 August 1961 RODRIQUEZ wanted to borrow a f1lm fros

46). Polls

1o other Identifiable traces

of Radio Centro, telephone 1046-70

On 12 June 1961 Subjoct asked RUAND to roturn the filma he

had borrowed for the University of Chihuahus.

On 21 July 1961

Subject again asked BUANO to return 11lmg.

On 18 September 1861

subjoct tried unsuccessiully to reach RuNO (3).

47) •

fnu SALGADO, of Astrononical Society, not futther Identified.

On 24 April and 24 April 1961 BALGADO was fa touch with

Bubjoct in regard to borrowing films (3).

LC8S.. Juan SALINAS dutIerTes, Do tracon.

On 20 July 1981 Subject planned to take SALINAS an Invitation (3).

48): Ranon SEVILlA Fernandes (P-3443), Of television Channel 11.

Will me in contact with subject on a cure; hovendel

0: Novembar and 3 Dacenber 1961 in regard to borrowing filme (3)

180).

Julld TElLE% Garcia, hoad ol. the 11ls club at the Polytechnie

Institute sponsorod by the Partido

Popular bocialists, contact

of soviet Filna Office.

?. On 86 April 1963 Subject anted TITLEZ to rotura song 11lng (3).

51). (5a81n005) fuu VERA, not further 1dentifled.

On 30 January 1960 VERA wanted to discuss varlous commercial

matters with subject. Subject said be would call VERA Bald 18

he tore not there Subject could talk to (Adan) MENDOZA. On

15 Pebruary 1960 VERA arranged to meet Subjeot afia cafe. Subject

Aid aot want to neet VIRA at the lICE. (4).

On 1 Jobrinry 1963 VAGUER wanted to borrow sore dance $11m

from Subject (3).

Active Cornunist student agitator 1n 1956-59. 01 the

Ministry of Hydranlic Resources.

On 35 May 1960 XXLAYA vanted to see Subject about f1lma (1).

FBORRILLA Orneles, b101089 teacher at

ao hations. niveraity, 101t18t

On 14 July 1060 HORRILlA mintod to borror a 811m tron Subject

for Behool: (3).

201-261813

---

## Page 85

BEGRET

•11®

16. PAST OPKRATIONAL ACTIVITY AGAINST SUBJECT:

with special

survelllance on the following daya:

Routine coverage during his tour 1o HexicO 1960; 8-8 and 11-18.

June 1962; 910 May 1963; 29 May] June 1963, 30-31 October 1963 (5)•

Considoration us given to making a recruitment approach to Subject

at the end of his tour in lenico, but no action was taken.

17. OPRRATIONAL PLANING DATA:

Signatures: (1).

BUBJECT!

Firma del Li

parante

.. Trou

WIFE: (2 versions)

del Doc)

Вілси

Firma del Deelerante

18.

OPERATIONAL STEPS TO BE CARRIED OUT IN REFT TEAR:

Not applieable.

C

•* COPY

---

## Page 86

(18)

(19)

(20).

(20)

CS COPY

201-261813

---

## Page 87

14-00000

if

-12

DEC ATTACIENT TO INNA - 31320, DATED: 13 FEBRUARY 196%

19. SOURCES:

1. LIFINE travel report and Mexican tunigration form, 5 for 1050.

3. WCOZT-2 case file, pasala.

3. LIRIVOY, after June 1060, pessim.

4. LIVRAT, unt1l June 1060, passia.

3. LIEURACE surveillance, dates as given.

B. BHOTH report, 11 July 1960.

NRXZ-7891, April 1961, Inforation fron retired LIDOLD officer.

Bame Information printed in Rxcelsior, 23 April 1981. According

to the latter, Radio Moscow alno carriod the story.

8. INACO report, 14 June 1961

•. Licolsior artiole, 84 June 1961.

10.

Passports frOm LIPURE, June 1982.

11. NXXI-2003, Sep 1962, LIFIRE travel information.

12. HRXI-4716, May 1083, LNERGO InfOrmÁtIOn On LANOB case.

13. DIE45798, June 1963, LIBROO Information on INSOB case.

14: LIHUD mail coverage.

15., LAROB Case 11l0, pREsIn.

16. LITIRE travel report, 12 Jan 1964.

17. M 8010, 29 Aug 1989, RIDCAP sheet containing LIGOLD infor tion.

18. BIHONCIT photograph, 14 August 1860.

•10. LICAllA photograph, • Mor 1959.

#. Photos obtained through LIVESTOCK»S, Ca. 1059.

81. LISATY surveillance, passin.

22. Ceo file of 201-242409.

MICROFILMED

FEB 28 1967

OC. MICRO. SIR

CRET

IS COPY

---

