# 104-10048-10079

## Page 1

1104-10048-10079

24

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECREI

RE

MFG. Li

ROUTING

75

2

FROM: JMWAVE

.4

ACTION:

IW

INFO:

D/ DCI,

DDP., ADDP, SOD

4, DO/MS CAT,

CA/PEG, CA/PROP, CA/O 4, CI/OPS, CI/IC 2

CI/PS, FI, FI/D, FI/INT 6,

RI /AN,

WH/C

12, WH. 8,

VR, FILE, CS/RF.

SECRET 2917432

29 MAY 65

2127Z

IN 79075

DIR INFO LANTEPACT BARR CITE WAVE 2364 NU

& INTEL TYPIC

SUPDATA:

AMCLATTER: 1

| 28 MAY FROM FRANK FIORINI, WHO TALKED TO

AYALON. DUE LOCAL OPS CLIMATE AND OPS SECURITY A-I DO NOT !::!' 1

USE FIORINI AS SOURCE OF A-1. NO TRACES ALAYON. LOPEZ MAY BE

IDENTICAL SUBJECT 201-730151. RID PLS INDEX. FILED 2917437

REPORT CLASS CONFIDENTIAL CONTROLLED DISSEM NO FOREIGN DISSEM

CUBA

SUBJ:

PRELIMINARY ACTIVITIES BY MIGUEL ALAYON FOR A BOMBING

RAID ON CUBA

DOl:

28 MAY. 65

PADA: UNITED STATES, MIAMI (29 MAY 65)

W COMMENT:

WH/C

WH/REG

12

8

RELEASING TA

LAUNIE M. ZIEGELL

DATE DISTRIBUTED:

29 MAY 1965

2358 Z

TDCSDB-315/01860-65

X. I ROUTINE

BASED ON:

PRIORITY

UFG- 7222

NO PROJECT (AMCLATTER-1)

LIAISON:

GROUP I

AUTOMATIC

SECRET

DECLASSIFICATION

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy No.

DOD2230

---

## Page 2

13-00000

116 WE 119Aы3 16863

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

MFG. 1-65

ROUTING

3

FROM:

ACTION:

INFO:

PAGE 2

IN 79075

UFG 7222

SOURCE:

A MIAMI BUSINESSMAN WHO WAS A RESIDENT OF HABANA FOR SEVERAL

YEARS. THE SOURCE HAS CONTACTS WHO RECOGNIZE HIM AS A CHANNEL

TO U.S. INTELLIGENCE..

THIS INFORMATION WAS OBTAINED FROM AN

INDIVIDUAL WHO TALKED TO MIGUEL ALAYON.

N. COMMENT:

D!:

TDCS

• ROUTINE

BASED ON:

PRIORITY

:ELEASING I WO:

DATE DISTRIBUTED:

SECRET

LIAISON:

IXCLUDED

AUTOMATIC

DECLASSIFIGATION

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy No.

---

## Page 3

13-00000

rag:

BFG 81-63

CONFIDENTIAL

COUNTRY CUBA

DATE OF

INFO.

28 MAY 1965

NO FOREIGN DISSEM/CONTROLLED DESCE

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

Intelligence Information Cable

ROUTINE

TDCS DB-315/01860-65

DISTR. 29 MAY 1965

SUBJECT

PRELIMINARY ACTIVITIES BY MIGUEL ALAYON FOR A BOMBING

RAID ON CUBA

PLACE &

DATE ACQ. UNITED STATES, MIAMI (29 MAY 1965)

REF

IN

79$75

SOURCE

FIELD REPORT NO. UFG-7222

AND

APPRAISAL:

A MIAMI BUSINESSMAN WHO WAS A RESIDENT OF HAVANA FOR SEVERAL YEARS.

THE

SOURCE HAS CONTACTS WHO RECOGNIZE HIM AS A CHANNEL TO US INTELLIGENCE.

THIS INFORMATION WAS OBTAINED FROM AN INDIVIDUAL WHO TALKED TO MIGUEL ALAYON.

тикілльні

1. JUST PRIOR TO 28 MAY 1965, MIGUEL ALAYON, A CUBAN PILOT

WHO IS PLANNING TO BOMB A TARGET IN CUBA, PURCHASED IS POUNDS OF

DYNAMITE, AT ONE DOLLAR A POUND, FROM ROBERTO LOPEZ MARRERO.

ALAYON ALREADY HAS THE CASING FOR A 10$ POUND BOMB, WHICH IS EQUIPPED

WITH A NOSE CONTACT FUSE AND A REAR PERCUSSION FUSE; ALAYON, WHO

WENT TO KEY WEST, FLORIDA, ON 27 MAY, APPARENTLY TESTED SOME

OF. THE DYNAMITE IN THE FLORIDA EVERGLADES AND DETERMINED THAT IT

WAS GOOD.

2. AS OF 27 MAY, ALAYON STILL DID NOT HAVE AN AIRCRAFT FOR

is material contains information atlecting the Nations Dolense of the Unlted States within the meaniag of the Esplonage Laws. Tit

18. U.S.C.

cs, 793 and 79%, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by li

CONFIDENTIAL

9 FORETEN DISELAAOLED DISSEM

AIR JCS SECDEF

EXO

AD/CI 2, CIA/NMCC, FBI, IENS, TREASURY, COAST GUARD, SORDER GUARD, FAA, CUSTOMS

---

## Page 4

13-00000

HO FOREC

IN 79875

MIU 1-09

JISSEM/CUNTROLLED DISSEM

IN

IDCSDB-315/01860/*PAGE2

CONFIDENTIAL

PURPOSES OF THE BOMBING RAID. THE DATE OF THE RAID WAS UNKNOWN.

3. LOPEZ IS A MEMBER OF THE "12. AVENUE OFFICE" OF THE FRANK

PAIS ORGANIZATION, WHICH IN TURN IS A BRANCH OF THE MOVIMIENTO

REVOLUCIONARIO 30 DE NOVIEMBRE (38 NOVEMBER REVOLUTIONARY MOVEMENT),

TELEPHONE 371-9242 (FIELD COMMENT: THIS NUMBER WAS NOT LISTED IN

THE SEPTEMBER 1964 EDITION OF THE NUMERICAL DIRECTORY

FOR GREATER

MIAMI. LOPEZ DRIVES A 1955 BLUE AND WHITE CHEVROLET WITH FLORIDA

TAGS 1-167575:

4. FIELD DISSEM: CINCLANT, COMKWESTFOR, CINCSO, MIAMI REPS OF

STATE, COAST GUARD, BORDER PATROL, L&NS, FAA, CUSTOMS AND FBI.

END OF MESSAGE

CONFIDENTIAL

NO FOREVSN DISSEN/CONTROLLED DISSER

D 00223°

---

