# 104-10220-10117

## Page 1

104-10220-10117

UNCLASSIFIED

INTERNAL

ONLY

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

CONF TENTIAL

SECRET

FROM:

1O: (in sanaan, on nures, and

building)

DATE

HA CRIMED

FORWARDED

OPTICER'S

MATIALS

DAIR

8 Mirch. 1960

"OMMENTS (Numbre pact common to thou dom' ta

Do ertor.

Crun a lino across columa alier dote coromant

2.

3.

No 292502

A Felic

2.

Copy attached for you

retention should jou desira.

3. Cort attachod

for jour

initial retention and then

plouse forward for Jubjoct

Thack you.

Lipatel scort to

aladina in secter

7.

ders

7. 7ie QDDALE

10.

12.

13.

• CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UMCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECRET

8 March 1950

MENIORANIAM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECI: Mecting with 1ü'. William Puvley and Yubio FREITS Or Piraicial

and Organizational Matter's

TIME & PINCE: 1455 Hours, 2 Narch 1960; Mr. Parley'o Office in Nina!

Jacob Ecterlire, uning the name Jacob Inclund, set sor to boure with

No. Pawley and tir. FREYRE on the date Indicatei.

The followits sjects were

covered during this mecting:

Megardine the bond issuc which it. Fewley 10 floating In

view

ol radolne 22,000,000 for support ul vitosition actirities,

Ecterline 4011 alm that the firat two candilates to sla: the issue

vere quite accoptubic.

These poople are Erillo OCHOl Ochos abd

Dr. Gustavo CURE!O.

Esterline said the other two lo. Parles bad

suggested vere tuined down in sashincton-ot los any persora?

reason;, but merely because tlicy had been too clouely assciated.

with bitIsti elemento in the must, ifter eure resiatance, particularly

with revard to MARGUEZ Sterlino, Me. Pauloj'e tira candidate, Le

acrecd to consider others.

Two of the most prominent caniiiates

mentioned were intonio VARON, Autentico leader, and Jorge zaris,

formor editor of the Habana dally neropezer, La Avance:

MI. Punley and his colleague, la. FiEyRe,

Mitlough

hed no reservations vith

ICEBId tO ZAYIS; they were of nixed enctiore on VARONI-janicilarly.

because of a recent report they had receive? from RUBIO Fadilia In

Habana Indicating that VAROl in luther to the left than tid forberly

been considored.

This point was debated at length and 1t was finall

decided that the resolution would turn on whether or not ke. VARUN

would be willing to come to the Stutes and foully join the errosition.

(NOTE TO MR. COURS: (1) Where 1s ZiYiS at the present time aid lien can

he be broucht back to the United States to sien the bonds? (2)

Fove we ever

hau ony leftict traces on VARONi before?

Also, 18 the Station in touch with

him and could they

deterrine through a

channel

other than RUBIO Paiills whether

Valord w1ll, In fact, cone to the United States for a purpose such as-thie?)

Mr. Pawley is pressing for action in gettine the leads sigred and his

point is well taken.

it must be noted, however, that it wrid de foolish

to accept names which are less than acceptable because, in the long run,

1t would defeat our juriose.

Or the question of jublication o a Cuban neusparer in Niazi,

Esterline said he understood tiat l. Pavley lui made arrangesents for

che publication of Diurio de Marim in Medal.

15. Pawley said that he

had, und with enthuatent sata trate had siso beer able de lace sportsh

for the illutimo mchines which does avaj win the necessity

of buyine; the mclares. Boterline chen queried his on shai dia iraction

SECKET

---

## Page 3

to prtuttes avanue vince it mula be infanel tor all pructical carpones

1n: Cuba.

Noo Pewley again mid with catinolan mas ho vould be prepare:

to print duarre on s00n as 24:3

the country.

immediate attiro.

During e recent coneration with chinf, MiD in Wanhington, Mr.

Pawley rade tir renark chat through hin irlonde in Mlani ho had contec:

with action trips in Pinar dil Ris and Crior.

Irior to Esterline's

üeporture for linch, C, WiD ached him to loris into theor croupo in nore

dotall with Va. Pialey.

me nubject von accordinily rulned und M. Pavley

and iro ritria, ino had nost of the cubaterire Information, provtdei the

followine:

(1) 6a Finor del Rio, lir, FütRe sald there wan a group

In that eres, but he did not lare the nome of 1t at his finger

tipo at the roment.

He offerid to set it within the next feu

days and make 1% avallable through Mr. Farley.

(2) 0n Canaguey, Mr. FlINE sold that a Doctora l

] (пр8)

1o actlvely vorting with retired elemente of the old army living

in that areno

This croup- and 1t would sppeer that she may have

contact with 500 at the moment (the total troup in approxintely

4500)--1n espposedly organizing as A reciatence army in Canagueye

ras complete responsibility for this orennization.

Sho

10 aidod 1y a DrL

" Pria Gold that should any

boly aitest to contact (

Jand she vas not present; contact

could bo rare with De

who would yut thom In touch

with hci. Va. FRETe arpeared to have no suther ictallo of the

group other than those set forth chove. He did eay, however,

that thier e vas sn existing contoct plen which anybody could ise

w1th complete security either on the telephone or in a personal

neeting®

This plen sould work ao follers:

The person contactine Den.

shoald say thoy

aic cocine from reta 39 to talk

to aden 37 (thosa are old

scrority and traternity designatione).

laving establislsed

th1u, hey should then suj to the Doctora that they are

cor.lae to consult. about defici reform.

This will crosblish

the bora lidec of the percon marine contact as a friend of

Nro PRUTFE.

(Noto in Mr. Romolis ard la. Thoncy: Please lave soueboly prenare a illegatch

on the accoscibilly of the FRuita goor and suciest to the etation trai iceigerters

ile dispatch chali alco eupcest that Station jinhana sclec? e

Although I sould recorren: that an

american bu use! for this, 1 milly don'" inor erougi ubrut the altillo: In Caregaey

se know vether the Ductora would le very leurs ahon euting an merlende

hovever, core no irlication thai un inerican ming ar contact voul! le coloctiraili.)

Distribution:

21.41:-la: 19011.013

I - Saila Mono pile

+ f0 ts

Si vice

Ottilind

Esterlino

c/54

---

