# 104-10072-10184

## Page 1

104-10072-10184

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce •

DISPATCH

SECAKT

PROSINING ASTION

CAN 700

Deputy Chief WH/C

16-30

16-17

16-2

A C/WHD, COS/JAVI, COS/Lima, cos/Caracad, COs temla CIty,

DUAT QUALIFIED AR80

CAN NA! I

TYPIC/OPERATIONAL/LICONET/Shipmant of war Surplus Itema Purchaued by Cuben

AChON MOUNTED • REFERENCE

References DIRICTOR 13639, 19 June 1966 (sent only to Mexico CIty and NHAVE)

701-7:9404

--I.

The reference advisad tha Maxico choy stacies Chat -214914

two menbore of che

deleration to the Unitad Nations, Jose Manuel CALARDY Alarcon and Vacar

GOT IBRABZ Fernandez, bothildentified as Cuban Intelligence Officero, had purchared

vat aurplus irens (uniforme, balte, boors atc.), in New York during April 1966

and had aubsequently shipped these items to Mexico in

41 whice caovao bage

"walghing a total of 657 poundo. i

Upon recalpe of the above information, the detaila vere passed to

LICOT-? uho was Instructed to alert his sourced at the Maxico City airport and

adviee the station if the shipment had transited Mexico Clty and where de had

gOnO• LICOMET»Z then alerted LICOMET»-19, 20 and 21 to the facte on a need to

know baolo and according to him, thres the airport into a mild uproar.

CONTINUED

Attachmante:

As atated para 6 h/

Dietrabution:

LI DCWH/C w/atte

idle coldiere

1 COS /JMNAVE w/att#

1 • cos/Lima w/o attale?

1 - COS/Caracan w/o attalb/

cos/Santo Dom1n80)0/0 atE816-10

3

-PILES

ODORE MEREROICE TO

GS COPY

OISMATON STAND AND NURSER

HIMA -29514

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

200 - 9-52

DATE

19 July 1966

NOD TILL NUMERI

Duble; wen autoni

19-5•1

9469

---

## Page 2

14-00000

3.

On 22 june the denich wad bajun by LICOMT 19 and 20 for the casgo

manifoot chae would show cho arrival of che chipment in Martoo.

LICOMT -26

• had Informed LICOMr l that cha shipmant hed not boon dene to cuba, and that

Cubana Afrlines had not rocalvod uny slipaone from dow York. LICiNET io chea

Intornad LICO:LT-2 on 24 Juno chat cho ahiprone had arrivad in Marteo on 3a

May aboard che Aeronavos do loxico flight iron New York, llosuvar, ho wao unable

to locato che shipmant at the uiryore or determino where de nighe have sone 11

It lad boen picked up.

On 24 Juno, LICULT 21 ventured che choughe that the

ahipmant had been picked up by cha Cuban Inbassy and that he attle had no

nowledgo of it having been eranahippod to cuba as alsowhoro.

# The cana Jollad on 25 Juno whon LICOMEr-21 Informad LICONIT"2 Chat

the ahipmont was at the alpore and las soing to be loaded aboard the tubana

Airlines flighe of tho sama day. LICOT? thon nociliad LICONET 20 who thea

proceeded so invastizaco cho shipment.

201-39+353

3.

LICOMET -20 went out

airerait and bagan to physically examine the

sant a to shoto

he photographs, innuor Vas porauda Cuban Intolligenco Usticar aadichad te

cho imbassy in Murico calloù don from the airplane and asked whae lidorer 20

was doing.

IICU-IT-20 rupliod chat ho was checkiog che shipment to soo what

was boing shipped and if there were any military itens included. VIGA rapIled

that the equipmont contained in the shipment was for the UH. World Heolch

Organization Sanitary Corps that was currontly working in Cube and gocking ready

to start a campaigo against epidemics such as malaria.

VeGA went on to say

that the shipront came from che U.N, and vas at cho raquest of she Cuban delegation

to che U.N, and that 1t contained ahoes, boote, uniforng, bolis, capo, medical

smocks, and accossorles for una by tho loil O. Sanicory Corps in Cuba.

He said

there woro no milltary implements of ecola or war in the shipmene.

LICO aT -20

continued to checi over the shipcant bue sinco all the boxes and bage hed a

Voli. Jiploitle seal on them, he could not open che on delay the shipsat of

chen to cuba

6.

renched for Headquorrors and JiaVs aro copies of photograyis provided

by LICO:il-4u 01 the bags and boxus shippod to Cuba.

Please note thas che baga

hava a tag which Icads "Diplunatic Pouch

• From: Cuban Miasion so the United

Nations, New York - To: Ministry of Foreign Relacions, Havana, Cusa." Also

attaches ara copies of the cargo manifests for cho Cubana Ariinus filght of

25 Juba 1060, which were

providad by LICOleT 19.

The manifests only list 31 bass with a weight of 749 illus us opposod

to tha

41 bags weighing 657 pounds which the reference mentioned.

8.

jICO:IT-20 mentloned that tho shipment had finally arrived in lexico

eitor

sour trans-shipments in the United States. Supposedly the shapinent got

apilt and unded up in soveral cities.

Miani was montioned as one, and there

wan a bic of a hassie ovor the cranspostacion of the shipment betweer lessara

and Pan American Airlines.

Tic

U.N. reportedly reclaiced the shipment and

finally sau to it that it was sent to Nexico.

9. Tha Nexico City Station had hoped to be abie to get at the shipmant and

nice a ca splash of the Cubans using cho Unicod Haciong Immunity to dana la

rovolutionary or mongering accircles, but as is evident fron chis capace,

1E was not fcasible.

The Station plans no furcher acclon on this natter urbosa

sivined by Headquarters.

- REPRODUCTIONS

willard

Truther

CLASSIPICATIONE

PAGE NO.

---

## Page 3

14-00000

---

## Page 4

14-00000

ES COPY

201-1-52

---

## Page 5

14-00000

CAROO MANIFEST

MANIFESTO

DE CARGA

TRA GUATAMALTICI DE A'ICION NATICA

1..S:4 79984

1277. 502e

-

Н.U & ВІ ВИОК'. СЕ •РИМАТОЕ СИТ

AIA MIRAR , DR0 01. 1 07. 860%

PERA CHITARRER ERK 125779

EN. 0 01441909 07292409

P 530 ER2S

137,100

ASEO SER

AVN0XT1

Crives

---

## Page 6

14-00000

CS COPY

3P

H05S 00207

lIney + +274 99911844

RANITE SANDRONE

Gionarie

13n,

149.650

• 9ї

100.849194

CAIDO MAN

MANIFOLTO DE

352800m2

-100

35008

001 860 8

Patie

ud00-9.5

---

## Page 7

14-00000

S FA

1191: ?.

1r.1í. à 8081

Fa 201

• 1303)

MAINHA

Md. 47489

540

---

