# 104-10211-10070

## Page 1

104-10211-10070

MECRET

MARKED FOR MOEX WA

What Wit Dirsion

PAPO

INCIN

COLT QUALITIED DESE

CAN ROGE HIDEONG

ARCROFIA

Chiot of Station, Nortoo Csty

ACTION EQUILA RULELIONS

ITDOOR PrOgIeSS Farast Jarny a July 1963

Aotion Roguired! Mune, fur your Information only

References: None

BACKGHOUND

On 3 January 1963 Quinton N. OUSTER fumed over the

responsibilities of inside Station control of the LINDTOR Project

to Marvin No CABOr during & meting held with the outside staff

Agent for the lakonoR project, Seymour Do burniche

• What follo

1s the first in a serles of Profess Reports which 1t 18 hoped

all not only serve to keep lladquarters advised of just shat

La roing on In the LIMOTOR Project but mill also serve to appris

endurtery in preater detall of the performance of the LIMOrOi

san Aget on the outside under student cover. During: the

erted under revier TRINICH's replacemnt, Natalie S. HICKOFI

fried to tale over the outside responsibilities for LINDTOR

In the future repular Profess Reports on LIIDIOR w11l be

subuitted on a quarterly basis.

VEERICS

During the perfod under revith 32 meetines very hald with

Seywur De TRINNICH by Marvin A. CABOT®

Tho of these metings nare

ta coug home under the cover af darkness, The remeinder wer

(cantimed)

Distribution

3 - WH

DICE TO

SIPATCH SYNACE, AND MUNIDEN

N4A 22103

LASSICAN

DATU

30. October 1963

9998 FILE MUMBLE

50-6-5502

---

## Page 2

14-00000

-1900895

I ATON DI

DISFATCH

To DUTTA SIA ANO NO

1321.2100

at four selectod metint, ltes on the streets of the metropolitan

areas

Thay have code nates and vre chosen to allon for raula

cheek of possible counter survelllance luse or one say atreate,

0tO.) CANI LUTIES TRIVICH at the predeterined sire at a

predoterined tim and ultiately picksp TANICH In hIS SP

rhicle.

Trans metings are then held in CAlor*s car. no

spectel energmay setine. alted have bem selected hut never

weds one 18 class to TRINICH" a realdener, and the other elore

to the Us

As ean be seon fron the mater of mutias mid In a

seven nuth perlod, they were mully hald once a sook, TanNich"s

meetings idth the Other LIDTO? assets vere do arreneed to allou

For a infam pasts of the betren the feld arento meetines

and the motiny, with CABor.

The TrINICH CloT setirEs usually

last, on the averas, tuo hours. Spreitle rerudromante vere

passed and acrinut rative utters re ettended to. Usually

TrAmUCH revlored ith CAuT each report recalued frau the LIMOTOR

meante and imediate midines is Elven there posalalo.

Chane metins are muntact caly contact with the ration.

dibrate efforts vre id to hoop hin areast of eneml

station develorente as well as WhAt dulopent

proton to be a distinet advantage from the stendpoint of the

ostaldo startures worle, ming him feel tuch sore part of the

Station and what it lu trying to accomplimh.

TRINICH 1n tum ind rodesignated meting altos for

TROTUCH began preparation of contact reports with ench of his

agents, In turn LINOIR lA uls Instructod to repare a abort

report an ench of his meting ath lIbBion?.

d:a:

Sinon Jammy 1963, the Sention his attouptod, broin,

lee replar contact ith saywar Do Marach, to falo nother

Jansgit Into Just what goes on at the WAy which 1s of Interest

to the stacion, and at the mme tie to emine the LINCHOR

astete and their expabilities ta terma of the dill. the LIMOrOn

projeet 1i, as statos In the Project Fennal, an Irportant

station "ay"s and eary" rechenden at the UlAl, Eased on a 100k

at lINcala for the period undey rovime the Station notes the

following:

infle the froject 19 producine 1t has recelvud

little in the may of muldance from the station on inad

quartery on infremation wilch li should colleet. A ro

«*annation of somes as alao necesaary.

There uns : InatTlelent coordination dch Station

WICE estivities at the DAr

while it did prodhoc, little of the produet uma

nonmidered of valen for foral dissendention.

Thare mas little or no play back Into the LIVaTOR

rajeete that do to say that unile the Project 18sal5,

Drilly In tho person of TRIOUCH displayed Initlative

and sonerated activitt, lt often ended just at that point.

als contrentod to lou urajo, partieularly no lt ecasernod

TRINICH

- USE PREVIOUS CONICA..

HE ANG

---

## Page 3

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

CASSE CAN C06

CECLET

- E422303

At the burianine of the persod under rover, the LaNCIOR

stable conslated of the follouins assetes

LIMORly (sho enintained contaet with layerOIl?

and LIKAYAN, the lattor served as a

contact to ITIANOIl's 3 and 4)

IT HONOR 19

LINCTOR- 22

Tia ves Minally corpleted Affective

the end of March 1963

Althourh a uld for dres or teradnation

pay nes rude, it was relected.

in ontor to provide LATAYAS 6

ult a muna of ecritaet sisuld acrothing of Importinoe develos

In the future, LIOs? 14 vas Instrusted to squire & Post

Office Bos, inten he dido It was teren out in the allas used

by LI)DIOR 14 with IDAYARE (Pedro MORAN) and also the allas

Bad by LINITOR l4 MEn LADIEROL? (turo de la TOrTo) as an

everyoney cans of contact (usine, a telepan).

To As a ratter of operationni backgrand, seyour Do TrIaICH

as tom to LIbIors 1, 19, and 22 under his true mare. Tray

also knew bin hom telophans number mich un uned for conunleations

mas then to him, LINDIOR li sas unavere or the extataroo of

LINDIOR a 29 and 22.

He anew OUSER under his true nielame.

though LaMOrChg 19 and 22 knaw each other allpatly roelally.

they were unmare of each othors elendestine relatlonario with

TRONICH, LDADICF19 knew Filnoas Fe SWHKA through thalr

aler cooporation on the Beager tave operation (under true

na. LIMOR 1S aloo lner OUSLER under true trut no.

Do with peresTenh 7 In idad, there follows a boler re

of ench of the LIOTOR aeris!

L LOMBACIL?. For the eurrent perlod this aren

as bean a key writer for me of the leading ular atudan

espaper, Icvaluelonario

He 1s ull veraed in Luy

tadent arrairs ead his a nide ringo of contacts dt

student leaders. Re and the neper vere of surtloular

Interest to un, particularly tecuse the lnttar sas considered

ane of the lirast at Duy tut because 1t was also financed

by the private sasretary to LITerODa in t'e race of LItEraR's

office. Toever by Angut Revolurionarto veg In bad Finanelal

Bernita, victim of enteralerent of hands, and virtually

entinet

Twoon LICTOR ll ve have attempted to esplois

Lorol 2's other emotions i have tried to raise the

(cant irazed)

44#1

Excite: i.

B:42, 6-06 10l

#RACES

•Tra

---

## Page 4

CONTINLATION OF

DUPATCH

50550861678

SECIET

_ IS'A 22203.

not know laptor ll by his true nam, nor dons he know

that LIMOTOR 14 representa OLYOKE Or PEPRIMP

He heve

triod to lapress on LIErBROll?'s mind trat ho 1a vordon

for a "croup of sexie bustressuen interested in inoring

what la going on at the lile Tria acent 1e pala 1 500

pesos monthly"

& LITOR l With the teruination of LIKAYAK

and LIKEDiNO 3 and 4, Chis sant's responsbilities

consisted of meting ITEROll 2 und thereafter to

Thie me foel le not surfielent

work for this arnt won me thel 10 a valuable long tenge

asset. End capable. "e have been attorpting to Intereat

him in becoming a nate boure keeper in addition to ris

resular deles. le le also paid 1, 500 pesos sonthly

le has taken on additional responsibilities at bie present

place of employant, but as & tamet lt 18 presently

completely uninteresting to us.

Should LITTOR ever

noquire adational son PoPRIn assets, the arent would

be the kandler. fe la a Perican eltizens

G LINCIOR19 Thla arent enclarea to cencentrate

on possible lands to present or niture renters of the

varden egulvalent of OLACID (see projoet penel, MIo

PLANS, B)e

Also durine the perfod undor review she

did jeon serviee in the BICHICK TENNAYS ease (sce

also paragrach 3d (2) of kHA 22370, dated 21 October

1953)

In the first caterory she has already couleted

prollenary unite upe on ton of the 29 staints of tbe

sohool In question.

She is one of the Iinast ellelbors

of infortion ve have sen and continues to do a fire

jolene on the exceutim bourd of the

rbatewr her analyment alcht be Tooldentmll"

trap, a strange constellation of stixants, ind visitors

Ineluding diploma, LUDTOR19 18 the regular sure

of the Station's 118t of Sahool for Forelmers studate.

LIOTOR 22. Fe In a ressive aset at the DAy

who has been instracted to report all t'at he sees or

hears unton deals vith student pollesent croupings of

the left in all malties at UNAl, wich perticalar

attention to student elections and politieal sl1 muts.

He kam been in the beat position, alone with klyNarol?

to ruport on the activities o! LICOAX and LILISPC.

LIOTOR 22 awelfleally, as tell as LIMorges 14 and

19 mus scheduled for an LOTUTTER emination e

remults of that emmination will be discussed In the

Progress Peport covering the period after August 1363

or 1a a saparate dispatch.

(eatinaed)

This cod tin bant.

FTASUSNATION

---

## Page 5

ONTIJATION OF

DISPATCH.

TE SAVE A SYNOC, AND NO

PIA 22203

So As Indiested In the Project anemi ma have no leediato

plans to empend nure mieully the assets of LiMon?.

PPODUCTION

10e During the period January - June 1903. 2s ra reporte

more produced by the LI-OTOR assete, Of these, 38 oriptrated

nath seyaour Do TRUENCHS 3 WEn LIDAOR 14; 33 with LIDDOIL?

(nlthours newral of those emntatned several toples)s 75 with

ELMOTOR 191 and 76 ulth LINTOR 22. Then Mines uy bo further

malyad as follon:

SayRoug Do TRINNICH

Personalitleu

LITALON 3

Karla Castaa Ston

LiAN Losture Eerles

Luisa Pintos Mino

Hes Cuban Onltural Inst.

Polstloal Croups - UNN

Publications

CHE (D)

18

6

and hard

38

LTHOTOR-14

Commente on LIKAYAR 6 Reporte 2

Persona 11tlea

ITMOM: -12

Personalitles

Colerto da Moxiao

(inelusing lends)

Locture Jerlea

Political Groupe UNAN

RECIDICK

Hohert Oba Jones Group

Cle Clube

LITAN 3

anter of Latin Aurlean

stutters

Marla Custar, Sten

CNT. (D)

Klaoel laneous

280

16

" In addition LIMOOR 19 produced

three llets of Jehool for

Porel fars Headents for february,

April and tely 1963

INKYBROTE?

Revoluc tonario

Fat lentlons

Personal1t1es

Pol1t1cal (Madco)

1VR0

Student FleetLor

Youth Presa Woek

Placellaneou

Loeture Series

Pablleations

Politient Groupe

Rectiona

CRAM Pacalties

Fichonenn Rlots

Persona 11ttes

RITALON 3

CAL. (D)

Place llandous

28

(cantinued)

---

## Page 6

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

CONARAE

SECRET

L9H422103

1lo By catagory the shov proruction 18 an fallens:

Fersonalities

Lecture Sarles

Tolstical Groups UNAT

26

20

colando de laxico

Pudlientions

LATALON?

Sadent Eloctlone

DOUs a Daneral

Stadent Associations

Harte Qustam Sten

BOCHICK

Robert Cuts Jones (roup

Ravo lue Longie

Kigboanaa Riote

The personality sports more routod to interusted station offloor.

and were than sado part of eratian parsonality Mles at the

station, All of the roperte connucted aith the Ural very read

by the station suchoe offlore for matover action tray felt

Reports dalins, with Es subjects or personalities

tere rantad to StINKaiD, Tria run report produetion does serve

Do strung, ban Jation C1 and peraonality Mles and by 1ts ury

nature little of 1t eur men the llet of day la tarms of forual

alsonation outsde the station (an amaption mas 1511-6693)

12e Unfortunately, only tho of the 225 ran renorto reelud

formal diesenation, both orleinatin Ith LIENADI? (18945 6939

and 7510•

An indicated in the Froject Renmal subretted with

HUA 22650 and in FA 22370, 1t 13 hoed throush proper puídanca

and increased cruction to in able to mise the lewl of di searable

Inforcion orinatina dirin the LINÓTOR Project, Efforta 1111

Do made so enlist the surport of the MaIuCH Polleleal Sectsen

as sell ca the local ZOLO to telter channel the LIDSOR

efforts and Increams eustony Interest in the procet, by

arulding the statten idth suitable mildance more posalble.

cova

13. The station has not onoountered ecver problem oth

the Project during the parlod under reviet

The eapability of

the Projeet 18 cortainly entanood by the ruet that the start

Agent outside is under statent eover. He can develop expertlu

In the lIVIOR targue shrach bis dally activities and comment

01th greater anthorlty en lia production of other LIHOrCES.

(eont famed

show* 1

Ecade, so det. mat

M 5à tond 19

At 1571'C

---

## Page 7

14-00000

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

SECRET

19941-22903

since early 1963 plans mre rade for the evantunl

appearance of an ILLUMSP toen trun indorarters.

Based on

earler corrusandance, LILOR 22 INS a ITIrE sandidate, and

both LUNToR's 19 and z2 mr Inoluted in further planing for

the LoMurish vialt.

15. lio security insidonte have occurred duriny tre period

Moraney tetings oan elays be

oteMilse the littoR rau raterial as puch as possible, to

proteet 1t against exposure of assets shoald it evr bubone

comprosieed.

It Bretsw I July 1503 LINcrat19 a slary was Inerane

to 1,350 pesos per month (less PAPANE far dodentsona) M

other salary Incroase are contreplated.

ALI LD-DIOR prodiation (ran reporte alted under PRODOCTION

abora) 1a routed to COS and D00S plus the Irterusted Mation offles

CORCLUSIONS

18, DurIng the partod under roules, drinite progress

has been made toard the otfeotives an at don in paragraph

5 abor Plans call for parvin l. CABOI to brief the Station's

operational start on Libill during one of the rogular moorly operational

analy plas callad for a posting of cabor,

tanglen, and nichopy with satlon wcar? offlourt, continued

effart 18 leing mde to leprove the quality and neope ci LIMOTOR

and lest bat not least, thave nor procati

LDOOR Agents sere drosped. the Mit LDDIOR Profesa Repart

wd21 demonstrute evan further progreas toard these modest

do Cas ourall fletor mat aluo le considerede In vien

of the seope of tria Station' i opprational serivity, and slur

the pery spectal politteal cospleslon el the student body and

reanty of the wur, thie sation cunot esally allor 1tmli

the luNNy of DOing IlEDOUt a LINOTORDO prOjeOT.

Underd C. CURTIS

$CRA

USE PRIVIDS EDITOA

---

