# 104-10086-10397

## Page 1

104-10086-10397

T4-00000

CIA SPECIAL COLLECTIONS!!

RELEASE AS SANITIZED

Declassified and Approved for Release

by the Central Intelligence Agency

Date: 2-pü: 003

ONG

SU"JECT:

Pelay

in sending the first cable about

OSWALD

1.

Much has

been written about the delay (by the Mexico

Station)

ins ending the first cable reques ting

traces. on the

name Lee OSWALD..

It was discussed in Dave Phillips

book as

a

case of laziness on the part of the Soviet

cas e

officer (which

in my

view was

unjust and unnecessary

and indicates that Dave

didn't know what he

was talking about).

2. Normally

the Spanish transcript for the 1 October

conversation would have been picked up on the farning uf the

2nd of October

The Russian langage porti

ld have gone

to the Russ ian/English trans criber. on the

October.

Th e

trans lation would have

been returned th

òwing day

(4th )

the Soviet cas e

in che station

the photographic coverage ith sin

office

a have

as ked for

That cove

would not have been

before the

film

was still in the

camera on the 3rd of October a

was

picked up probably on

the 4th, processed and pass eg

e Station on the next work

day

which

would have been

October.

3:

Later the fil

but at that time,

th

TOIl

was completed

taken

out of the camera

stay ed in the camera

until a

might take three or four

4.

A name

trace could have been reques ted

on

the bas is

of the name alone but that wasn't the way

Win Scott ran

that

Station.

He wanted the photographic coverage tied in

with

the

telephone coverage: sometimes there-was a U.S. automobile

licers e number.

It was

als o part of

the

"numbers

game" of

Justitying a project b

reports produced.

the number of dis patches, cables or

0000151

Copy

lot.

---

## Page 2

Annin

14-00000

SECRET

SECRET

2 May 1977

SUBJECT: Review of Mexico City Station Files

at the Warrenton Record's Center

1. On 2 May 1977 Chris Hopkins and Annie Goodpasture

visited the (Warrenton Record's Center to review old Mexico

City files in search of additional photographs of the

"unidentified man". We were unable to locate any such

photographs.

It appears that earlier photographs may have

been destroyed in a purge of Mexico City Station files and

that the folders for the destroyed material were re-used to

forward more recent photographic material to Headquarters

for retention.

Following are the Job numbers of boxes reviewed

and pertinent notations re re-use of the old folders:

Job #70-236 Box 1 of 3

LILYRIC Photos

1 February - 1 March 1968

(Filed in re-used folder,

LILYRIC 1 Aug. 1966 to 31

Negatives

white letter-sized

nvelopes - five

packages C-1873 - 2031

1 March - 1 April 1968

Back folder - re-us

folder 1 Sept 66

Front folder

folder 2 Dec

led

LILYRIC

28 Feb 64

1 April - 2 May 1968

Back folder re-used LILYRIC

folder 2 Mar 64 thru 29 May 64

Front folder re-used LILYRIC

folder 1 Nov thru 15 Dec 66

0000152

JFK # 056

Copylof7

Continued

SECRET

SECRET

---

## Page 3

14-00000

3

1 June - 3 July 1967

Clean folder

3 July - 31 July 1967

Back flap re-used LILYRIC folder

July - Aug 64:

Front flap clean

1 Aug 67 - 4 Sept 67

UCTION PROMBITED

1 Nov - 22 Dec 67

Back flap re-used LILYRIC folder

12 Apr 66 - 18 May 66

Front flap re-used incoming cable

chrono folder 1-31 Jan 65

9 Jan - 31 Jan 68

Front flap re-used LILYRIC folder

1 July thru 31 July 1966

Back flap - clean

Job #70-236 Box 3 of 3

LICALLA Photos

2 Jan - 27 Feb 1967

Back flap re-used LICALLA folder.

5 Nov 62 - 31 Jan 63

0000154

Continued

3

---

## Page 4

14-00000

4-

Front flap re-used LICALLA folder

1 Dec 66 - 15 Feb. 67

1 Mar - 28 April 1967

Back flap re-used LICALLA folder

1 Feb - 29 June 63

Front flap re-used LICALLA folder

20 Feb - 31 May 1967

* 2 May 67 - 30 June 67>

Back flap re-used LILYRIC folder

23. July 63 (Y-1257) to

30 Nov 63 (Y-1308)

Front flap re-used LICALLA folde

1 Sept thru 30 Nov 1966

3 July - 30 Augu

Back flap re

19 Sept 67%

SECTION PROMBITED

folder

30 Nov 63

#14)

Front flap LICALLA re-used folder

1 June thru 30 June 1967

1 Sept - 27 Oct 1967

Back flap clean

Front flap re-used LICALLA folder

1 Aug - 31 Aug 1967

6 Nov - 29 Dec. 1967

Back flap clean

front flap re-used LICALLA folder

1. July. - 31 July 1967

3 Jan = 28 Feb 1968

Front flap re-used

LICALLA folder

I July thru 31 August 1966

Back flap Czech photos re-used folder

Sept - Nov 64

0000155

Continued

---

## Page 5

14-00000

5

1 March thru 29 April 1968

Front flap re-used LICALLA (C)

28 Nov 61 to 10 Feb 62

Back flap re-used LICALLA folder

1 Apr to 1 July 1966

2 May thru 19 June 1968

Back flap re-used LILYRIC folder (X-907 to Y-969)

12 Sept 61 - 23 Mar 1962

Front flap re-used LICALLA folder

I Jan thru 31 Mar 1966

N.B. There was no coverage from 19 June to 15 July 1968

15 July thru 30 August 1968

Front flap re-used LICALLA folder

23 Nov to 27 Feb 1965

DO 2 PRODUCTION PRONSTER

Contained nothing prior to 1967.

Looking for 1963.

Job #70-209

•Box #3 (Boxes 182 at Hqs)

Nothing pertinent to our search.

Box #4

Nothing pertinent to our search.

Box #5

Nothing pertinent to our search.

Вох #6.

Nothing pertinent to our search.

Box #7

Nothing pertinent to our search..

Box #8

Nothing

pertinent to our search

0000156

SESHET

Continued

5

---

## Page 6

14-00000

•6

Box #9'

Nothing pertinent to our search.

Box #10

Nothing pertinent to our search.

Box #11

Nothing pertinent to our search.

Box 412

Nothing pertinent to our search.

Job #73-506

File # 50-6-74/3

Box #1

FIS RODUCTION PROHBITED

Co..

Jan & Feb

Mar & Apr

70

May & June

Sept

70

July & Aug

Oct

70

Sept & Oct

Nov

70

Nov & Dec

Dec

70

70

70

70

70

70

70

Dispatch HMMT 11,368, dated 17 March 1972. Photos were filed in

re-used subject and "p" folders (equivalent of

subject 201 folders),

indicating contents of "original" subject and "p"' files were

destroyed.

Ref (to previous shipment). HMMA 40,562, 21 May 71.

0000157

6

GRET

---

## Page 7

14-00000

SECHET/SENSITIVE

Mexico Station Coverage of Soviet and Cuban Embassies (1963)

1. unacecal coverage: REPRODUCTION PROHENED

From the time. the Mexico Station was opened in April 1947 until

the arrival of Mr. Win Scott as Chief of Station Cin 1955, the Station had

developed a support apparatus to exploit leads from the Soviet Embassy in

Mexico City. This umbrella type project (LIPSTICK) consisted of multiline

phone taps, three photographic sites, a mobile surveillance. team and a

mail intercept operation.

Telephone taps (LIFEAT) were placed by an employee of the local

[telephone company who was handled by a Station case officer. The number

of lines tapped was limited only by the availability of a listening post

nearby and the availability of Tangauge (English, Spanish, Soviet, Polish,

Czech, etc.) transcribers. Generally, these were Mexican or Mexican-

American recruited agents.

Three photographic sites were handled by a Station case officer

• assisted by technicians on TDY from Headquarters who advised the Station

•on the best types of cameras, films, and concealment devices. These

operations had sub-crypts under project LIPSTICK (namely: LIMITED, LILYRIC

and LICALLA). LIMITED was a fixed site directly opposite the Soviet Em-

bassy (across the street) which had both a vehicle and a pedestrian en-

trance. The gate to the Soviet Embassy was on the northwest corner of the

0000158

E2, IMPDET

CL

BY 004645

7

REPORT RONSITIF

---

## Page 8

4-00000

14-00000

^. r. SEBRET/SENSITUK

REPRODUCTION PROMBITED

Soviet compound and the LIMITED site was diagonally across a double laned

street on the

southeast corner of that block. (See attached diagram).

LIMITED was the first photo base and operated strictly on an experimental

basis in the early stages. This base, however, was closed when the Sta-

tion received word that the photograph of the "unidentified man" was

being released by the Warren Commission. LILYRIC was an alternate photo-

graphic base. It was located in an upper story of an apartment building

on the same side of the street as the LIMITED site but in-the middle of

the block south. It had a planted view of the front gate of the Soviet

Embassy. LICALLA, the third photographic site, was located in one of a

. row of four houses on the south side of the Soviet Embassy compound.

This site overlooked the back garden of the Soviet Embassy compound. The

purpose of this operation was to get good identification photographs of

Soviet personnel. The three photographic sites were managed by a re-

cruited agent who was a Mexican citizen, the son of an American mother

• and Mexican father (deceased). This agent collected the film from

the

LIMITED and LILYRIC sites

three times a week. The film was. then de-

veloped and printed into 8 x 10 contact print strips: LICALLA film was

originally processed in the Station but in early 1959, due to the resig-

nation of a technician, this film like that of LIMITED and LILYRIC was

processed on the outside by a recruited agent.

CC00159

2

SECRET/SENSITIVE

8

---

## Page 9

14-00000

- SECRET SENSIRE

REPRODUCTION PROKIBITED

Mobile surveillance was conducted by two American staff officers.

These two officers organized a surveillance team of six recruited agents

which used late model cars and a panel truck for surveillance. The team

could be activated by radio from the LIMITED site whenever someone of

interest left the gate of the Soviet Embassy. These agents were aware of

the LIMITED site since they had been issued LIMITED photographs for

• identification purposes.

The Station also conducted a/unilateral mail intercept operation,

LIBIGHT, which was handled by an American case officer. A recruited

Mexican agent, who had a semiofficial status, obtained selected letters

from a subagent employed by the Mexican postal system:

2. (Liaison Coverage:

Liaisor coverage was unreliable and insecure as characterized by

the nature of the Mexican services at that time. The Mexican Direction

of Federal Security (DFS), (with which we conducted liaison, was a hip-

pocket group run out of the Mexican Ministry of Government. This Ministry

was principally occupied with political investigations and control of

foreigners. Their agents vere venous trist, and corrupt. (A Station)

officer trained a number_of_them in-name-tracing and travel control. In

(1958, at the instigation of a Mexican official, a joint telephone tap/

operation came into existence. The operation, which became known as

0000160

3

SEGRET/SENSITIVE

---

## Page 10

14-00000

(LIENVOY, was run by a Mexican officer. The listening post had 30 lines

connected at one time. The transcription room was staffed by Mexican

SArmy officers.

In 1961, (because of mismanagement by the Mexican prin-

cipals,) the Station chief, himself, became the project case officer. A

Station officer assisted him in the daily supervision of the listening

posts and in picking up the transcripts and the tapes. There was also

an American technician inside the listening post.

3. Oswald Coverage:

REPRODUCTION PROMBITEL

In mid-1962, the Mexican officer in charge of LIENVOY (the

joint tap operation) asked the American officer at the LIENVOY listening

post for the telephone numbers of the Soviet, Cuban and Satellite Em-

bassies in anticipation of possible coverage. The Station immediately

disconnected all of the unilateral telephone taps on these Embassies so

-that they would not be discovered when the Mexicans hooked up their.

taps. The Mexicansasoon thereafter connected five Cuban lines, five

Soviet lines, three Czech lines, two Polish lines, and one Yugoslav

line.

At the listening post, a live monitor made short summaries of

conversations of interest which were then included in a daily resume

for the Chief of Station. Later, when a reel was completely recorded,

full transcripts were typed and passed to the Station; however, there

was usually a time lag of a day or two. Reels which contained Russian

C000161

SECHET/SENSITIVE

10

---

## Page 11

14-00000

SeGn

ECRET SENSITI

ip a language other than Spanish or English were taken to another location

for translation and typing. Mr. Boris Tarasoff did the Russian transla-

tions but because of the volume of Russian conversations, the translations

usually ran about

a week behind the date of the conversation..

As soon as the Station learned that an American identifying him-

self as Lee Oswald phoned the Soviet Embassy, Miss Ann Goodpasture of the

• Station started screening all photographs. However, here again, there

was a backlog because the photographs were picked up three times a week

• but those picked up were usually for dates a few days before since the

technician who was processing the film, did so on a night-time basis.

Further, photographs were not made initially until a complete roll of

film was used. Later this was changed and the operator cleared the camera

at the end of each day regardless of amount of unused film remaining.

The instructions were to cover the entire work day (office hours) and to

photograph all Soviets, their families, all foreigners, and cars with

foreign license plates. Human

error did occur but generally the agents

were conscientious. The Cuban Embassy coverage had more sophisticated

equipment using a pulse camera which frequently developed niechanical dif-

ficulties.

Oswald came to the

REPROQUCTION PROUBLED

from a tap of the Soviet line. It was picked up and taken to Mr. Boris

6000162

5

SECRET SENSITIVE

---

## Page 12

14-00000

rushedlum

Tarasoff for translation because the caller was trying to speak in Russian.

There was some delay because Station personnel waited to compare the

photographs with the typed transcript. All transcripts were made in

either Spanish or English since the Chief of Station could read only

these two languages and because he personally screened the transcripts

for operational leads.

REPRODUCTION PROMIBITED

CC00163

6

SECRENSENSIVE -

12

---

## Page 13

14-00000

SECRET

(SECRET_,-

20 Feb 77

Source:

Motes made by A. Goodpesture

for John Leader, IG Staff

Suoject:

Background on lexico Station Support Assets

* (Coverage of Soviet and Cuban Enbassies)

1. Unilateral) coverage. From the time the

(April 1947 (by Bill Doyle) until are

USTION PROMBITED

Ion was opened in

Scott as COS

in 1956, Charles

Anderson III (stii1 in LA/HQ) had deleloped a support apparatus

to Fees

exploit leads from the Soviet Embassy. This unbrella type project

(LIFEAT).

consisted of multi line phone taps, three photo sites, a mobile surveillance

team and a nail intercept operation.

2. Phone taps were placed by an employie du i telephone company

who was handled by David WILSTED (pseudo).

The number of lines

tapped was linted by availaoility. of a listening post neariy

(since the taps were not made in the main central) and English/

Spanish (Soviet, Polish, Czech, etc) transcribers. Generally

these agents (mostly Mexican or Mexican American) were related

which the station at that time felt was good security in that

if they talked about shop, they would talk to each other.)

b. Three photo sites were handled by Arderson with the help

of Harry Mahoney (retired, living in Chicago) end IDY ISD

people checking the best type of canera, film, and concealment

devices.

These had sub-cripts under LIFEAT (LIMITED, LILYRIC,

and LICALLA). LIMITED vas a fixed site bang opposite across

the street from the front gate of the Soviet Eribassy, which had

both a vehicle and

foot entrance. The Soviet gate was on the

Northliest corner. of their compound and LIMITED was diagonally.

across a double tarrelled street on the Southeast in

no 88806-40011645

CC00164

JFK-0.56

Copy 10f7

SECRET

A-3)

13

---

## Page 14

14-00000

.?-

"SEGRET

that block.

LIMITED was

the first bese and it operaved strictly on an

a: arinental besis

in the

early stages.

one

storey

I think the Mexi Station bought

this property (a/Spanish Colonial stone house) through LINOUSIIE (check to

be sure). Later this house kegan to fall apart. This base was closed when

the Station got word thet the photo of "uniden man" was being released to the

puclic by the Warren Conmission. The photo operators were noved

to another apt

nearby. The property vas sold (under an operational agreenent with LIMOUSINE

for a long term lease on the top floor of a new apartment biding to be built

on this site). LILYRIC was planned es an alternat

base to LIMITED.

It was in an upper storey (3rd floor -check) on

se side of the street

as LENTED but in the middle of the block So

It had a slanted view of

the front gate of the Soviet Enbassy.

agents in LIMITED and LILYRIC (both

Mexican fanilies) as far as we knew

LILYRIC was a rented apartment.

lot acquainted with each other®

the third photo site, was located

in one of a row of four hou

she South side of the Soviet Embassy compound

which the Mexico Station

ssed in about 1958 (check date), also using

LIMOUSINE as the purchaser (check). This site overlooked the back garden of

the Soviet Embassy compound. The purpose of this operation vas to get good

identification photographs of the Soviet personnel (no at thet time were largely

unidentified in lexico Station records). The three photo sites vere handled by

(Ramon Alvarez) (Mexican citizen of U.S. mother who taught elerentary level at

(the American School). (Ramon collected the filin elender

ten from LINITED

and LILYRIC three tines a week.

His sister's husband, Carlos (lexican doctor)}

developed and printed the film into 8x10 contact print strips.

The master plan

tuit

vas for LICALIA film to ie processed inside,ISD man from 1957 to 1959 (Harper

Holt'- resigned) could not handle the volume and as the unprocessed film began

to accumulate, the inside CO (l'ahoney) becane disgusted and took the film out

for Ramon's brother-in-law to process (probably early 1959). Thus (Ramon) became

the handler for all three photo bases.

A sensitive staff D monitoring operation

SECRET

0000165

14

---

## Page 15

14-00000

- 3 -

was run out of another one of these houses (crypt for the four houses was

LIUSI, 1, ote). This was ha:dled by Glen WILDEN (outside ISD officer)

and

Mahoney using HQ TDY teams for monitoring. This operation vas also

separate

from LICALLA. The two houses in between were rented to unsusrecting tenarts.

c. Mobile surveillance

was developed by Anderson and later placed

under liahoney and Joseph Sancho. This team consisted of a half

dozen or so agents who used three to four late model cars aná a

panel truck (which could be used on stake_outs for

photo covera e).

The plan was to activate this group by radio

120D BASE)

Soviet

when someone of interest left the Embas

hd stay with them

until they made their meetings.

se

hits knew about the INITED

JASE because they had LIIITFD

This worked fairly well

for identification purposes.

bout the middle of 1958 (check date)

when one.of the

ice agents got too close to his target and

was arrested by

exican transit

police and turned over to the

Mexican Secret Service. By the time the Station could arrange through

a cleared attorney to bail him out Juad Austin of the Goodrich,

(Little and Riguelme ftrm), the agent had identified Sancho (uho vas

evacuated across the border at Nogales by Bob Shaw)

and the inside-

phone number of Mahoney (who was subsequently replaced by Louis

Puckett). As a result of this flap, the LIrAT project

broken

up into several others.

The agents were not changed but vere given

new crypts. /Estancona ard (Peggy Haggard) replaced Anderson in handling

the unilaterall phone taps. Pickett

replaced lahoney and handled the

surveillance team (LIENTRAF) and the photo bases through Remon?

d. LIBIGHT was the crypt used for a unilateral (originally) mail

Intercept handled by Charlie Anderson III, The agent (Mexican) had

{a seni official status and arranged to obtain selected letters fron

(stenar

0000166

15

---

## Page 16

14-00000

a sub-agent in

the vostal system (I think at the airport).

donso spera,

vere later/Fuckett, Rojert Falamann, and Alan White.

lis case officers

2. LIaison coverage was unreliable and insecure as characterized by the nature

of the l'exican services at thet time. (Ire l'exican DES (Direction of Federal,

Security) with which ve dealt was a hip pocket group run out of the Ministry

for Government.

This Ministry sent a major part of its time

ntrol off

foreigners and colitical investications. Their azents

sious, venall

corrupt extortionists. (Robert elberg established

with one of them

(Levise: De Leon (later LIFIRE group) in aboat 19

He gave them some

training (& group of about five surveilla

in travel control working

the airport. as well is file searches

es fron DES Hatrs where the files

were poorly organized and often

rate. How and then, however, sore useful

infornation was developed but it could not be depended upon. kelberg was

replaced by phil Roettinger. (resigned and remained in Mexico), Mahoney, Thonas

Hazlitt, and Roöert Feldman one pte the Ether.)

During 1958, Win Scott met socially sone of the chronies of the

Mexicen President elect, Adolfo Lopex lateos. During this period, the v.s.

Ambassador Robert C. Hill (reflecting the policy of then Sec State J.F. Dulles)

was energetic.In organizing groups to "fight communism". One of these seeds

grew into a proposal (iguel Aleman (jr. son of former lexi' President), acting?

for Locez lateos, made to Win Scott for a joint telephone tep operetion. This

project (LIENVOY) went through about four distressing years of a shakedown.

The Mexican in control

(LIELEGANT) was inexperienced, old, ard greedy. His

(LIEVOY-2

a masterpiece of deceit and corruption.

LIELEGANT also

nanipulated control

over the principal agort of LIBIGHT mail intercept. The

first case officer was Alfonso Spera inside with Turner Smith (retired) outside

and John

(TSD training officer for surveillance and head of the listening

post where thirty telechone lines would connect as well as

& transcription room

0000167

16

---

## Page 17

14-00000

SECRET.

staffed j eh ican arry officero.) Initially the station tried to met every

demand made by the kericans.

Both Saith and John had larguage difficulties and

personal problems associated with being outside the stetion(so that the Mexicans

were virtually unesntrollale, spendie noney as they pleased, squirrelling away

equipment at enornous costs, and neglecting their part uf the bargain(in the

production of transcripts or placing taps which we wanted.

Spera was replaced

by Jack Brady no found himself in the same pincer

at of having Scott

approve a request by LIELEGANT that Brady had ti

in by the son, LIE:VOY-?.

Finally wher the cost became exhorbitant

was little to show for it,

the project was revariped. (Snith,) and

urned to the U.S. and were replaced

by a TSD officer, Churles Flick,

put inside the listening post to naintain

Brady was reassi

other duties rendirg a transfer.

the equipnent./ Scott took ov

roject as case officer meetirg with LIPLEGANT.

He designated Ann Goodpa

meet dating with Pick ior routino suervision

of the listening post,

Ing up transcripts and tapes. Goodpasture had no

dealings with the Pexicans except when Scott was ill or out of town.. Generally,

all decisions were made by Scott. This was about late 1961..

3. My menory is a little vague about the origins of the Cuban Embassy but I

think the staff first developed fron a pro-Castro group celebrating on New

Years eve 1959. As I recall, it was a takeshift arrangement of volunteers

through most of 1960 and 6l with Tom Hazlitt producing voluminous reports on

their acti:ities and recruitirg agents right and left anong Cuban nationals in

Kexico City®

4. Personnel assignments. Of interest to us now is who was in Mexico during

the period prior to Oswald's visit and the subsequent investigation by the

Warren Conmission. To determine who was there and what they were doing I

heve gro:ped persons together chronologically with areas of their assignment

as the

covering from 2959) to 1969 so

that sooties nanes gop up, one can tell what

that

period they were in Mexico and

, their essignments at the tine.

SECRET,

0000168

17

---

## Page 18

14-00000

- i

_SEORET,

8/50-6/69

COS

Winston M. Scott (deceased)

DCOS

7/56 - 7/58 Alfonso Rodriguez (ratired)

10/58 - 12/62

(retired)

6/63-9/65

Alan khite (retired) -

10/65 - 1969 (Stanley Watson (retired in Mexico)

COVERI ACHION

Prior to 19542 Howard Hunt (retired)

(12/54) - 7/587 Williard Hill) (resigned)

12/55 - 9/61

Stannard Short. (retired)

Chief

9/61

- 3/64

David Phillips C/ (retired) ~

8/62 - 9/64

Asst

2/64 - 6/65

James Flannery C/ (retired) i

9/64 - 11/66

Harold Dalghren Asst

10/65 - 1967

(Stanler Watson C/ (retired) -

66

68

68 - 71:

(Joseph SmithC(retired in

CUBA OPERATIONS

56 - 4/62 Thomas Hazlitt Ch

PRODUCTIO

2/60 - 4/62 (Jack Stewart) (ret

Costa Rica)

4/63 - 4/65 Bob Shaw Chief

9/65 - 10/68 Joseph Piccolo.

10/65 - 12/67 (Pessy laggard)

SOVIET TARGET

6157 - 10/59 Louise Lyon Grateed? 6/62 - 1/67 Prentice Marheine (ps)

9/59- 8/65 (Herbert Yanell) Chief-

3/62 = 3/63 are brent-

(retired ?)

Outside CO

4/65 - 11/67 Cynthia Pausann

6/65 - 7/67 Alice

Pittinger

7/65 - 4/69 Paul Dillon Chief

SOVIET TPANSCRIBEPS

6/56 - 8/58

Morris Gordon (resigned)

6/58 -

6/53

George Misko

6/63 in 70

Boris Tarasoif (retired in Mexico) -

LEERRET,

0000169

---

## Page 19

14-00000

12

SUPPORT ASSETS

(Unilateral

phono taps

(1949) - 1961

charles Anderson III Chief

6/55) - 4/00 Pegey laggord) Asst

26/56

- 1/62

Frank Estancona Chief

2/60 - 10/64 Thomas Keenan

9/64 - 12/67 Michael Farmer

(49-71): Outside CO

David VILSTED (ps).

retired in Mexico

(Unilateral photo Cubans

6/59. - 4/64

Robert Zambernardi (resigned Mexico))

7/59 - 6/62 Richard Scathar TSDJ (retired)

ODUCTION PROM

Unilateral photo Soviets

{3/54-4/59

Harry T. Mahoney

(retired Chicago)

56 - 68

Outside Agent

Ramon Alvarez (resigned in Mexico)

5/57 - 8/64

A. Goodpasture (alternate. cO-

and internal routing)

6/58 - 6/63

Louis D. Puckett (retired)

6/63

- 10/64 Thomas. Keenan

65

Willian Bright

Robert i Feldman (Ritua!

813163.

Cubama: of resting:

Tract

Liaison phone taps

1959 - 1969

Winston Scott (deceased)

1959 - 1960

Alfonso Spera

(retired)

1959 - 1960 (Turner Smith) (outside, now retired)

1959 - 1960 John

(Training rept resigned)

1760-

1961 John Brady (retired)

1962 - 1968

A. Goodpasture

1961

— 1971

(Charles Flick) (outside TSD Staff Agent - retired) -

Liaison - surveillance

Erior 1954)

Robert lelberg) (retired)

3/54 - 4/59

Harry lahoney

(retired)

1/59 - 1961

Thomas Hazlitt

12/62 - 9/67 lobert Feldnann (re Fired)

TSD Outside unit

4/58 - 12/03 Glen Widden (rotired)

0/59-454

Joseph 1. Resigno (ps) Unit blown and closed down

STARET

0000170

19

---

## Page 20

14-00000

SECRET

About mid 1962 (creck date) LiNVOY outside lexi rept

asked

for the telephone nunders of the Soviet, Cuban, and Satellite Embassies.

With tris forewarning, LIFEAT (unilateral coverage)

was disconnected.

However

as I recail, the Mexicans connected 5 Cuban lines, 5 Soviet lines, 3 Czech,

2 Polish, and I Yugoslav line. The baserouse listening post had a live

monitor tico made short sunnaries of interesting conver

for a daily

resume which was received each day around 8 a.".

by (Flick to Goodpasture

to get to Scott before 9.a.m.) Later (when ti

was concletely recorded)

full transcripts were typed and passed

there was usually & time lag of a

Russian or another languege be

post the day after the tre

station in the same way, however,

Those transcripts which had

banish or English vent out of the listening

ript (of other conversations on the reel)was

typed.

These reels were taken to another location where they were translated

and typed. In the case of the Russian translations, Boris Tarasoff usually ran

about a week behind the date of the conversation because of the volume of

Russian conversations among the embers of the Soviet Esbassy. During this

period (fall of 1963) the reels were probably being brought into the station

and carried to Boris by one of the people from the Soviet Section or they may

have been carried to him by flick but I think I brought the reel in and gave

it to Herbert Manell to take to Boris.

Herbert Wanell and his wife Barbara

handled all of the processi:g of Soviet transcripts.

ly job involved screening

the photographs as soon as we learned that the man calling himself Oswald was

probably an American.

However, here again there was a backlag because the

photos were ricked up

three tines a week but the ones ricked up were usually

for dates a few days previously because (the doctor processed the film on a

night time basis.. Photographs vere made usually until one roll was used but

later ve got it changed to one day coverage on each roll - in other words the

operators cleared the camera each day whether there was englisange a full

roll of film exposed.

Instructions were

to cover office hours, photograph each

0000171

20

1:

---

## Page 21

14-00000

SECRET

new Soviet and fanily, all foreigners and foreign licence plates. Funan

error did occur but generally the agents vere conscientious. The Cuban

embassy coverage had more sophisticated equipient (a pulse caera) but it

frequently develored nechanical difficulties. Bob Zambarnardi and Spathar

(I think) handled this film - pick up and delivery. Lorna l'ackay screeed

the film inside the station.

I am certain that the Oswald call came

tention from the.

Soviet line.: It was picked up and taken to Boge

the caller was trying to speak Russian.

отча

translation because

was

caused by waiting to

compare the photographs with the

Script.

There were no copies of

transcripts every nade in lang

Scott could read only thos

ther than Spanish or English because Win

anguages ard he rersonally screened the

transcripts for operational leads he wanted pursued.

CC00172

21

---

## Page 22

14-00000

0000173

(4) J0r Erb gate

(- LIMITED

2-LILYRIC

3. LICALLA

Phete Basee

14.00000

---

## Page 23

14-00000

-SECRET

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEN PROGRAM

RELEASE IN FULL

1999

TUESDAY 1th OCTOBER 1963

Covergga: 900 to 1900

LOg Film 144

20 Lazp

Waather 1/100

Camera Setting 3.5-2.5°

8 1251 2URY platican con KAZ en el jardin

200 8818 89

" 8 8 8 10

$$/818%4989848358989685859489858489898686848586848956858%398606968958

WEDNESDAY 2 OCTOBER 1963

08758562%

Coverage: 900

to 1900

:3 11139 ANOV

out UMY a Norte por Tacubaya-Despide

DIO

4 " "".

"•""el "" " " " D 8 B 80 8 1 80 89

+ 08

5 1150 U MM.

out a Norto por Tacubaya en

Chev

1 88.08

Verdo (entr$1141)

375

+80 0088

71033 DF

.6 1205 LEON

: In': 2URY de Oriente por

CO M889 DO O DOD DO DO DO DO DO DE 1E 0 DO

8 1216 U MM

9

Á218 U-A H

an de Sur por.

in de Sun

ontepec

de

Falcon

372

De 88 08.80 80 80 10 dO 88 lO 99 80 89 89 00 89

de

camioneta Chev(sal181218)

52137. DF

fracubaya

10

08

D2 8B

6 minuti

106:67

1222 VA M

12

out a Norte por Tacubaya

8 8M M M M M M 8 8 M 19

13 B 9 10. 88 11 10

88. 8900 80 80.00

10-88 8049

14 1243 VAZQUEZ out a Norte por Tacubaya

16 1259 TIPO

•out a Norte por Tacubaya de Chev (entro 1218)

9855/868%848586848684848688%8%84858%5986268 818%868%8%868%8%86893%8%8

D 167

THURSDAY 3 Ocdober 1963

699687876898%

Doverage: 900

to

1900

271200 UM W

18 1204 UN W

19 0 8 00 00 09 00

20 1213 U MM

21

1222 U MM

In de Norte por Tacubaya

out & Norte por Tacubaya en Taxi

in de Sur por Tacubaya

out a Sur por Tacubaya

8882 DF

#P89

0000174

JFK #*056

Copy 1of7

SECKET

---

## Page 24

14-00000

COT HISTORIA RN FURRASECRET

"RELEASE IN FULL

1999

27 September 1963, Sovict Embassy Chancory 15-01-55

Item 295, page 3

At 1626 hours, A Soviet calls from the Soviet Embassy Chancery

to

the Cuban Consulate and asks for Sylvia DURAN. He asks

DURAN if the american has been there.

DURAN: Yes, he is still here.

SOVIET:

According to the letters that he showed them from the (Soviet)

Consulate in Washington, he wants to go to the USSR to stay

a long time with his wife who is Russian; but also the

answer had not been received (by him) regarding his problem.

That accordingly these transactions take 4 or 5 months but

without prior approval from the USSR, they have to request

and even then, they could not issue the

esa here (in Mexico

City) without asking Washington.

blingly

this man

(the American),

showed him a lett

which he (the

American) is a member of an organt

in favor of Cuba

and said that the Cubans could

e him the visa without

the Russian visa and now the

"doesn't know what to do

with him, because he has to

for the answer from

Washington.

DURAN:

with them also,

becau

problem with him (the Anerican)

is that he doesn't k

one in Cuba and in that case it

is very difficult

him a visa, because he was

thinking of proce

his visa, because he knew it was

going to take

Eime waiting for the Russian visa in

Cuba, and the

SOVIET:

to the USSR.

.. that the

is that if his (the American) wife were

now in Wash

son (and) going to receive the visa right now

or the permission from the USSR to return to her country, (1f)

she is going to receive her visa in Washington, then having

this. visa, she can communicate to whatever place, this

permission, for example, here or in any other place (he) can

receive it, but right now they do not have them.

DURAN:

SOVIET:

DURAN:

SOVIET:

..certainly and neither can (the Cubans) give him a letter

because they do not know if the visa will be approved.

They can only give the visa according to instructions.

Then that is what she will put on his application.

Neither can I give him any letter of recommendation because

I don't know him and pardon me for bothering you.

DURAN: It. was no bother, thank you very much.

0000175

LUNT

JFK#O56

Copylof?

---

## Page 25

14-00000

27 September 1963, Sovict Embassy Consulate 15-00-55

Item 74, page 2

An unidentified man (speaking Spanish) calls the Soviet Embassy

Consulate at 1037 hours and asks for the Consul. He is told that

the Consul is not there. The unidentified man asked what is needed

to get visas to go to Odessa.. He is told to call back at 1130 hours.

Item 137, page 2

At 1235 hours a man named ALATRISTE (not a Soviet) from inside the

Soviet Embassy Consulate calls out to number 45-37-72 (Colonial

America, probably a pension or hotel but number not listed in the

telephone directory) and speaks with a man named SAN ROMAN.

ALATRISTE says that he is in the Russian Embassy and they need to

know what day the boat "KALONIA" will arrive in Odessa

Soviets will also need copies of the passenger manifes

(One concludes that ALATRISTE and SAN ROMAN

representatives

for the boat "KALONIA", and needed routi

information.

First

a call was made to the first listing

Soviet Embassy in the

Mexican telephone directory (which

out to be the Military Attache).

They got the phone number

gansulate and the address. After

making a call to the Cone

it learning that it would not be open

until 1130 hours, ALA

it to the address to get the needed

information.)

• Item 395, pages 7 and 8

Just atter 1600 hours, the Soviet Consulate received a call from the

Cuban Consulate (Sylvia DURAN) who said she had there a U.S. citizen

who had requested a transit visa to Cuba because he is going to the

USSR. DURAN wants to know with whom he spoke at the Soviet Embassy

because she sent him over to them telling him that if the Soviets

approved the visa then the Cubans would give him one without anything

more, advising the (Department of) Immigration in Cuba. She wants

to know with whom he spoke because he says that he doesn't know

either with what person and who told him that certainly there would

be no problem. The Soviet asks DURAN to wait a minute.

After a

short wait DURAN explains the same thing to another Soviet. This

Soviet tells her to leave her telephone (number) and her name and

someone will return the call. DURAN gives her name and telephone

she has moved and

number 11-28-47 then says as a personal thing, will not receive their

has not advised them of a change of address so

Bulletin and can give it to them now.

The Soviet asks her to call

KOUKHARENKO in order to change that address and asks for the name

of the (Cuban) Cultural Attache. DURAN says it is Teresa PROENZA

whose number is 14-13-26. The Soviet thanks her.

6000176

---

## Page 26

14-00000

iSSAOS

4;

ROUTING

io.

I DIRECTOP

¡ROM. & MEXICO CITY

iCTION, WH 8

iiFo

, Cl, C1/OPS, C1/IC 2, Fl, SR 7, RF, YR

XX

2

3

31

ES GOETA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

RELEASE IN FULL

1999

SECRET

N 300 63IN 36017

MIR CITE MEXI 6453

LCTAPROVE

1. ACC LIENVOY I OCT. 63, AMERICAN MALE WHO SPOKE AROKEN RUSSIAN

WIS NA"

EE OSWALD (PHONETIC), STATED HE

SOVEMR ON ?8

CErT WHEN SPOKE WITH CONSUL WHOM HE RELIEVED RE

YVALERIY VLADIMIPONICH

VASTIKA". SUJ ASKED SO! GUARD IVAN

DRYED KON WHO ANSWE

IF THEPE

ANYTHING NEW RE TELEGRAM TO MASHINSTON. ORYEDKO"

CHECKING SAID

NOTHING RECEIVED YET, BUT REQUEST HAD FEN

SEN

• HAVE PHOTOS MALE APPEARS PE AMERI

ENTER INS

SQUEMR 1216

WURS, LEAVING

8209 ON

1 OCT. APPAR

35, ATHELTIC BUILD, !

CIPCA 5 FEET, RECEDINS

HAIRLINE

VING TOP. WORE KHAKIS

AND SOHT SHIRT. SOURCE LIEM

3. NO LOCAL DISSEY.

1: 200-5-41

• CLASSIFICATION REVIEW

CONDUCTED ON 1 6 APR 1976

ELEGMADET CL BYSIZZOS

Hugh 6534, 15 Oct.

Requested pouch plato camill

Document Number 1A

C POTY

Par EdIA Poviair on APR 1976

REPRODUCTIOIY BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PRCHICITED

101-289248

1Q:t63

Copy No.

0000177

1971

Copy lofT

JFK#056

---

## Page 27

14-00000

ORIG.:

EXT.:

, DISTR.:

TO

-INDILLINOOR

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

DATE: 8 OCT 1963

FILE:

_Conmo: Chrono;.

-Sor Contacte yo B.10-8

SECRET

CLASSIFICATION

INITIALE

tTO.

DEFERRED

KX.

ROUTINE

PRIORITY.

OPERATONAL

IMMEDIATE

NUMSEN

INITIALO

DIR

INFO.

CITE

MEXI

620U

NUNDER

ICIMPROVE

1.

AÇC LIENVOY I OCT 63, AMERICAN MALE WHO SPOKE BROKEN RUSSIAN SAID EES

NAME LVE OSWALD (PHONETIC), STATED EE AI' SOVEMB

ON 28 SEPT WHENT SPOKE WITH

CONSOL WHOM HE EEU,TEVED BE VALERIY VLADINIROVICII KOSTIKOV, SUBT. ASKED SOV'

HARD IVAN OBYEDKOY WEO ANSHKRED, IF THERE ANYTEIN

WASRINGTOR.. OEVPRROY UPON CHECIING SATD NONE

HAD BEDY SENTO

RE TELEGRAI TO

IVED YET, BUT REQUEST

2 • HAVE PHOTOS MALE APPEAR

MERICAN ENIERING SOVEMB 1216 HOURS,

LEAVINO 1222 ON I OCI.

APF

SAGE 35, ATELETIC BUTID, CIRCA 6 FEST, RECEDING

HATRLINE, BAWDING T

JOPE KHAKTS AND SPORI SHIRT.

SOURCE&. LIDMPTY.

3. NO LOCAL

dregef

DUP .OF

erigivaled. by

L.A. DILLENETER (P)

wife ff Herb mAnELI

SOORDINATING OFFICERS

SECRET

CLASSIFICATION

OUTGOING

WCCUTTIS

RELEASING OFFICER

0000178

Zuf 71

---

## Page 28

14-00000

Nic.

BUSTOS: jpm

UNIT :

EX!

DATE :

WU/3/Mexico

D INDEX

5940

O NO INDEX

d0 Oct 1963

DO FILE IN CS FILE NO

"TO

MEXICO CITY

FROM: DIRECTOR

CÖNFIWH 8

3. :.

INSO PADDP, CI, CV/OPS,

CLASSIEED MISSAGE

17:07

ROUTING

1

6S COPY:

6

1100ст.53 22 (B9:z

R

DEFERSES: CEN

ROUTINE

TO

for FOIA Review on

MEXI

REE:

FL: SR 7, RF, VR

VECTA SPECIAL COLLECTIONS

RELEASE IN FULL CITE DIR

BAXT 6453 (XN 36017)÷

74830

LEE OSWALD WEO CALLED SOVEMB I OCT PROBABLY IDENTICAL

XIB3: FREY OSWALD (201-239243) BORN 28 OCT 1939, NEW

LOUISIANA, FORMER RADAR OPIATOR IN UNITED StATE

WHO DETECTS TO ESSA IN OCT 2959. OSMALD

M77159)

INCHES, ONE HUNDRED SIXTY FIVE POUNDS,

REBANG,

NES

YEST TEN

BROWN WAVY HAIR,

BLUE BY33.

DON 31 OCT 1959 EB A1

RENOUNCE HIS UNITED

STATES CITIZENSEIP TO THE

STATES EMB IN MOSCOW,

INDICATING HE HAD APPLI

• SOVIET CITIZENSEIP. ON 13 TEB

Document Number®

THE US TUB MOSCOW RECEIVED A UNITE LETTER FROL OSWALD

POSTHARKED MINSE ON LIVS ISB 1961 IN WHICH SUBT INDICATED

HE DESIRED RETURN OF HIS US PPT AS FISHED TO RETURN TO USA

"WE COULD COME TO SOME AGRESENT CONCERNING THE DROPPING

OF ANY LEGAI PROCSEDINGS AGAINST ME:

ON & JULY ON HIS OWN

ELRZIMPDET CL BY 0/22.08

CONDUCTED ON.

CLASSIFICATION EXP 197

INITIATIVS HE APPEARED AT THE ENE WITE HIS WIFE TO SEE ABOUT

201-289248.

HIS RETURN TO STATES.

SUBS STATED THAT. EE ACTUALLY HAD NEVER

APPLIED FOR SOVIET CITIZENSHIP AND THAT HIS APPLSCAXION AT lO IRCT63

COORDINATING OFFICERS

FELEASING OFFICED

included tour tomati

(CONTINUED)

rading an

§classificallon

AUTHENTICATING

OFFICER

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy No.

IS COPYi

0000179

3.0F71

---

## Page 29

14-00000

ORIG:

UNIT:

EXT.:

DATE :

ECLASSIFIED MESSÄGE

D'INDEX

DJ NO INDEX

D'FILE IN CS FILE NO.

See sanitized rate cerA

Namber

Sor sterlie copy of this document.

32•62

ROUTING..

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF :

INFO:

TO:

DEFERRED'T

ROUTINE

PAGE THO

INFO

CITE DIR

G

748

THAT TRUE HAD BEEN TO REMAIN IN USSR AND FOR TEMPORARY EXTENSTON

OF HIS TOURIST VISA PENDING: OUTCOME OF HIS RE

APPLICATION, ACCORDING TO OSWALD, CONTAIN

P TO SOVIET

CITIZENSHIP.

OSWALD STATED THAT HAD

PLOYED SINCE

13 JAN 1960 IN BELORUSSIAN RADIO

FACTORY IN MINSK

WHERE, WORKED AS METAL WORKER

ARCH SHOP:

OswArD wAS

MARRIED ON 30 APRIL 1961

YA NIROLAEVNA POSAROVA A

DENTAL, TECENICIAN BORN

ILY 1941 OSSR.

NO HDAS TRACKS

HE ATTRAPTED ARRANGE FOR WIFE TO JOIN RIN IN MOSCON SO SE

COULD APPEAR AT ENS FOR VISA INTERVIER.

IS AMERICAN PPT

WAS RETURNED TO HIM. US EMB MOSCOY STATED TWENTY MONTHS

OF REALITISS OF LIFE IN SOVIET UNION HAD CLEARLY HAD MATURING

EFFECT ON OSWALD.

3. LATEST HDQS INFO HAS ODACID REPORT DATED' MAY 1962

SAYING ODACID EAD DETERINED OSWALD IS STILE US CITIZEN 'AND

HOTH HE AND HIS SOVIET WIFS HAVE EXIT PERMITS AND DEPT. STATE

HAD GIVEN APPROVAL FOR THEIR TRAVEL FITH THEIR INFANT CHILD

TO USA.

(CONTINUED):

•RELEASINO OFFICER;

cOORDINATING OFFICERS

GROUP

Excluded dro

Santrtomatic

dorages tina and

lassification

1 OF 71 REPRODUCTION

•OUTER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE: FROMIBITED

0000180

AUTMENTICATING

OFFICER

Copy No.

---

## Page 30

14-00000

PRIC

UNIT.::

•EXI

DATE :

•TO

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF:

-INFO:

TƠ

CLASHED MESSAGE

L7 INDEX

D NO INDEX

O FILE IN CS FILE NO

5

- 12

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

PAGE THREE

INFO

CITE DIR®

174830

STATION SHOULD PASS INFO RES AND PARA ONE TO

TPELIDE, ODENVY, ODDATE, AND ODURGE LOCALLY.

INED FARAS,

TWO AND THREE ORIGINATES VITH ODACID.

REF AND POSSIBLE IDENTIFICATION BEING DISSEMINATED

TO HIDES OF ODENVY, ODACID, ODOATE, AND ODURGE.

PLS KEEP

BOSS ANTISE ON TIRE CONTACTS OR POSITIV

TKFICATION

OF. OSWALD.

done

iper

DiR

174673

WH. CHT:

IND OF MESSAGE

32 19

According to LIENVOY 1 Oct

spoke broken Russian said

American male

who

(phonetic) stated he

name Lee Oswald

•spoke with Consul.

So Emb on 28 Sept when

to Washington.

scussed sending

s telegran

Dissemination had been

rade.

AARANESSINES

•ADDP

RELEASING OFFICER

SB/CI/A/Roll (1n draft)

CI/ilaison/Roman (1a draft)

EI/SPc/Egerter (1n draft)

C/NH/3

п. 4.

WE/COPS

COORDINATING OFFICERS

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

201-289248

JoG. KING

CHHD

AUTHENTICATING

OFFICER:

Copy. No

CCOÜ181

5:0F71

---

## Page 31

14-00000

CJ . UNGLASS! FIED

SUBJECT: (Oplional)

FROM:

ERNAL

E ONLY

CON: DENTIAL

SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

Chitison

SECRET

BIR 74830- 5945

• DATE

00T X 1 1963

3E3 DATE

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

RECEIVED

OMMENTS (Numbor ooch commons lo show from wa

to whors.

an a line across column aflor ooch comma

soN dile designation, roof Pombor, tand

building)

2.

SCOTT

WHAE

Movemen

we should and f

-Ha for

Artisai

10.

REPRODOSIIO

COPY ONLY.

COPY NOR TYRO MARK. THER

Tih-

1/1/63 за

ACTIÓN COPY TO:

MANET NO

i2.

Paul NEW P-Lip

SCOTT 158

13.:

Д'Анто 187

5

14.

15.

SECRE

P-8573

FORM

3-62

670 USE PREVIOUS

SECRET

CONFIDENTIALL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

• UNCLASSIFIED

0000182

60F71

---

## Page 32

14-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

P.CTION:

INFO:

DATE:

18 OCT 03

FILE:

DEFERRED

NITIALS

PRIORITY

CLASSIFICATIO CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM !

ROUTIN

OPERATIONAL

INITIALS

RELEASE IN FULL

IMMEDIATE

TO

MEXI

5X/63.

PWO

1022292

1999

INFO

REF

6453°

50-8-10-6

CITE

DIR 74830

TEE OSWALD WHO CALLED SOVENB 1 OCT PROBABLY

NUMBER

IDENTICAL

24 prild

NEW ORLEANS,

OSWALD IS FIVE FEET TEN

BLUE EYES.

ONE HUNDRED SIXTY FIVE POUNDS, LIGHT BROWN WAVY HAIR, (!

STATES CITIZENSHIP-TO THE UNITED STATES

31 OCT 1959 HE ATTEMPTED TO RENOUNCE HOSCUNITED

INDICATING HE HAD APPLIED FOR SOVIET CITIZENSHIP.

THE US EMB. MOSCOW RECEIVED AN UNDATED LETTER FROM OSWALD

ON 13 FEB

§ yearn

POSTMARKED MINSK ON FIVE FEB 1961 IN WHICH SUBJ INDICATED

"HE DESIRED RETURN OF HIS US: PPT AS WISHED-TO RETURN. TO USA IF WE

COULD COME TO SOME AGREEMENT CONCERNING, THE DROPPIN

OF• ANY LEGAL PROCEEDINGS AGAINST ME." ON & JULY

INITIATIVE HE APPEARED AT THE EMB WITH HIS: WIFE

RETURN TO. STATES• SUBJ STATED THAT HE ACTUAL

ABOUT HIS

FOR: SQVIET CITIZENSHIP AND THAT HIS APPLE

NEVER APPLIED

THAT TIME HAD BEEN TO REMAIN IN USSR

OF HIS TOURIST VISA PENDING OUTCOME

APPLICATION

EMPORARY EXTENSION

'ACCORDING TO OSWALD,

REQUEST.

CITIZENSHIP-"OSWALD STATED THAT

TO SOVIET

13 JAN 1960:IN BELORUSSIAN RAD

EN •EMPLOYED SINCE: g

WHERE WORKED AS METAL WORKER

TV. FACTORY. IN MINSK

MARRIED ON 30-APRIL 1951 TO MARY

EARCH SHOP•

OSWALD WAS

DUP OF

NIKOLAEVNA

PUSAKOVA A

DENTAL TECHNICIAN BORN 17. JULY 1941 USSR. NO HDQS TRACES.

HE ATTEMPTED ARRANGE FOR WIFE TO JOIN HIM IN MOSCOW SO SHE

7-21

COULD APPEAR-AT EMB FOR VISA INTERVIEW.

HIS AMERICAN PPT

WAS RETURNED TO HIM. US EMB MOSCOW STATED TWENTY MONTHS

OF REALITIES OF LIFE IN: SOVIET UNION MAD CLEARLY HAD MATURING

EFFECT ON OSWALD.

LATEST: HDQS INFO. WAS ODACID REPORT DATED MAY 1962

SAYING ODACID HAD DETERMINED OSWALD IS STILL US CITIZEN AND

BOTH HE AND HIS

SOVIET WIFE HAVE EXIT PERMITS AND DEPT STATE

HAD GIVEN APPROVAL FOR THEIR TRAVEL WITH THEIR INFANT CHILD

4R STATION SHOULD PASS INFO REE AND PARA ONE TO

TRELIDE THREE ORIGINATES WITH ODACID.

TWO AND

ODOATH,

AND ODURGE LOCALLY.

INFO PARAS

I CONT PAGE: TWO?

LASSiFICATIO

INCOMING

0000183

70571

---

## Page 33

14-00000

11.17.

732:

DISTR:

ACTION:

INFO:

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

DATE:

FILE:

CLASSIFICATION

OTG

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

PRIORITY

OPERATIONAL

IMMEDIATE

TO

JITTALS

TNITIALS

INFO

INCOMING NUMSEH

CITE

PAGE TWO DIR 74830--IN 5945

P HUMBER

"REF"AND POSSIBLE IDENTIFICATION BEING DISSEMINATED

ODACID, ODOATH,

AND ODURGE®

FDAS ADVISED ON ANY FURTHER CONTACTS OR POSETIVE ESENTEFICATION

OF OSWALD.

-END. - 0F

. MSG

REPRODUCTION

88/16027

INCOMING

0000184

---

## Page 34

14-00000

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAVI

RELEASE IN FULL

1995

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

16100

1730 2993511

• ROUTING

TO

I DIRECTOR

FROM

MEXICO GITY

ACTIONS WN 8

INFO

ADDP, GI, 61/OPS, 01/5P,: F8, SR 70 RF, VR

- on run as is Nor

ТРЕТБ

MEXI 6534

LOI PROVE

CÜF DIR 74939

-LS POUCH PHOTO OSWALD

SECRET

DUCATA PROT

[5 DC7 63 N 4 035%

C/S COMMENT: "ATTEMPTS OF LEE OSWALD' AND WIFE TO REENTER U.S.

0000185

Document Number

8-4

: i FOlA Roviout on APR 1976

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW.

CONDUCTED ON.

1 6 APR 1916

EZ IMPDET OL BY OL2208

D: 200.5-41

(4)

9oF 11

201-289348

C3.600%.

SERACh

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

Copy No.

---

## Page 35

14-00000

SRIG.:

'T.8

"STR.:

•JECESTEINER

DIn

. Comno;

Chrono;

Lee Henry Oswald

(Now P")

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

PRIORITY

OPERATIONAL

IMMEDIATE

INFO.

ICIMPROVE

REF &

DIR. 74830

PLS POUCE PHOTO OSWALD.

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

RELEASE I' FULL

1999

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

CLASSIFICATION

INITIALS

DTG.

INITIALS

DATE:

• FILE:

15 OCT 1963

NUMBER

CITE MEXI

NOnBE )534

REPRODUCTION PROHB

Doorant Pastor

1373-489

NOW. 1978

SAMEAS

8-4

0000186

GFGESTEINER

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

COORDINATING OFFICERS

CLASSIFICATION

OUTGOING

WCCURTIS

RELEASING OFFICER

---

## Page 36

14-00000

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

RELEASE IN FULL

1999

15 cetober 190g

:'Cha fabassador

.: Winston M. Josts

142555 Ambassador Netition Bycos

Ba SOvIet 242352

1. TUS FOLIOSITE ITICIERLION VAS TECAITOd. INTI a USUAlIT Icllabla 211

Dud saltad Ili FierE MadiNITIOCE ICSITYOl, 3 minDer ci the Corruier

Bactica, in onu to llara 11 the jorist iNcrEsT bor reCOlTE a FOULY IN

aaidas ca correraiss his roquest. le barg 2a clar

racard to this sequost.

2020nat10n vith

2. Cur Jeadrartera bas triarcad a8 the

identical tith les Herry OStAlD, tor e

vistana, l former radar operator 1i

AHALO abora 10 prodibly

XF- 1959 15 SEN PILABIA,

Marine Corga uno defecter

io the sartet Tien 10 Detober 1959

2dN1tlona I010004t100

on 1425 matter

10. reoptrade

16531

CC

2X11L FROGERA

577

RS0/0CJ

CASLE IGEE K01)

NES (8)

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW

0r12 - Tho intersades

CONDUCTED ON

1 6 HYK 19

ELE3IMPDET CL BY C/Z20G

RegioTa! Benctiz QIICer - ILEASE IBTURN TU ILE JUD rOCK.

- Java? "tracte

- Lee Henry OSWALD P

-50-2-4-5

- Liaison with Lezal Attache

Fialson with Noval Attache

Document Numbel

for FOlA Review on APR 1976

RECORD COPY

76-1.919

16 OCT. 63

501-289241

No menorandun to Legal Attache on 8

ictober 1063; lowever,

note incrorandum

to US Abassador

(dated 16 October)

also included Legal Attache in distri-

bution..

0000187

!!=F 7!

---

## Page 37

14-00000

ryu.

author 1150: DE SENSITIZE

ROUTIN

70

• DIRECTOR

Signed:

FROM

s. MEXICO CITY

AS COPY:

R.0. #1 - Unit

ACTION: C/MAN 5 (COPY ISSUED TO DCI, 1810 22. NOV BP

Note:

If dostruction,

cite

DDP NOTIFIED AND CÓPY SLOTTED AT 1800,

Aro , DEL, D/DOl, DOR, MODP, C/CI, C/FI 2, C/SR 5, E/SAS 5, D/O EnEoprIato.

22 NOY spfeasons and coordinate

222229Z

INMEDIATE DIR CITE MEXI 7014

22H0 63M G 6781

REF:

AO UMEXI 6453 (IN3 6017)"

B. IDIR 74850=

C. 4, MEXI 6557 (IN 40357)14

1 ACCORDING VOA BROADCAST HEARD AT

PHESIDENT KENNEDY

ASSASSINATION, ONE LEE Ho

HAS BEEN ARRESTED IN DALLAS POSSIBLY

OF• PRESIDENT KENNEDY®

STATI

GARDING

NECTION

AGE 24

ASSASSINATION

2. DIRECT HQS ATTENTIO

3. • REQUEST PRIORITY

PHOTO OSWALD SO THAT STATION

CAN CHECK ALL RECENT LIENPIY COVERAGE FOR IDEN. FORWARDING

SOONEST COPIES OF ONLY VISITOR TO SOVEMB 28 OCT WHO COULD

ES IDENTICAL WITH OSWALD.

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

RELEASE IN FULL

1999

CONUSE ONE ARE g

Ed 2NDET CL BY 0/ 2205

83 COMY

D: 200-5-41

29

Document Number

14-12

itor FOlA Rovieir on APR 1976

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

201-289248

22 Nor 6.3

Copy No.

0000188

12.0=71

---

## Page 38

14-00000

ORIC.:

G: F. GESTETNER

EXT.S.

DISTR.:

COMMO

SEX CHRONO (DUMMY)

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SEGRET

CLASSIFICATION

DATE:

FILE:

22 NOVEMBER 1963

P-8593

• DEFERRED

ROUTINE

PRIORITY"

OPERATIONAL

IMMEDIATE

• INITIALE

DO.

NUMBER

INITIALS

TO

• IMMEDIATE DIR,

INFO.

CITE MEXI

RYBAT

701&

ХоМВіЙ

MA; MEXI 6453

B.: DIR 74830

C: MEXI 6534

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

RELEASE IN FULL

1999

1.. ACCORDING VOA BROADCAST HEARD AT

PRESIDENT KENNEDY ASSASSINATION ONE

ON REGARDING

RRESTED IN DALLAS POSSA

OF.PRESIDENT KENNEDY.

H. OSWALD AGE 24

CONNECTION ASSASSINATION

2. DIRECT HOS ATTENT

REFS.

3. REQUEST BRIORITY ROUCH PHOTO OSWALD SO IHAT STATION

CAN CHECK ALL RECENT LIEMPTY COVERAGE FORIDEN. FORWARDING

SOONEST COPLES OF ONLY VISITOR TO SOVEMB 28 OCT WHO COULD

BE IDENTICAL WITH OSWALD.

END OF MSG

29-12

AUTHENTICATINO OFFICER

COORDINATING OFFICERS

CLASSIFICATION

OUTGOING

RELEASING OFFICER

0000189

13.05 2)

---

## Page 39

14-00000

CLASSIFIED MEISAGE

1?.г?

Jritu Ma

Shitten

VI!T

EXT

C/WIL 3

D INDEX

5613

D NO INDEX

DATE : " 22 Move

MEeT 1963 C FILE IN CS FILE NO.

70

MEXICO CITY

FROM:

DIRECTOR

DOC, MICRO-SER

DEC.4- 19/4

ES GO EMICROFILMED

22 Nov 03

40.2

CONF:

C/WH 5

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

INFO :

xx

TO

DDP, ADDP, C/CI, C/FI 2, C/SR 5, C/SAS 5, D/05 2, VR

I MEDIATE: MEXI

INFO

CIA SPECIAL COLDECTIONS

4802

RELEASE N

*ULL

THANKS.

THIS CONTECITON WAS ALSO NOTED TERE

TRUST YOU WILE BE ABLE USS. ALT YOUR FACILIES TO FOLION AND REFORT

SOV LAY DETEST RACE TURING TIRES HOURS. PEASE, CARLS

I SUMMARIES.

ENDOE MESSAGE

CER • SIAMP

potionaile

_C/S COMMENT.

** (IN 66781).

eins

PiDS

D: 200-5-41

Documont Number - 8

1.487

jor FOlA Reviow ori

APR: 1976

Signed: 14

• ita

R:O. #1 - Unit CEDRS

Note:

If dostruction.

cite

reasons and coordinate

11 appropriato.

8

201-289248

200-5-44

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW

CONDUCTED ON 6 APR 1976

i00.004mm

ELZAMPOET CL BY 0 1 2209

C'S COPY

C22 NOU63

THOMAS E. KARAMESSINES

ADDP

EASING

OFFICER

COORDINATING

OFF

REPRODUCTION BY OFFER

C9010 1

Exclutes from

declassification

THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

JOHN N. WHITE

C/WE 3

AUTHENTICATING

OFFICER

Copy No.

Approved for Release

by the Central Intelligence Agency

Date: 2/2003

0000190

14. 0071

---

## Page 40

14-00000

DISTR:

ACTION:

INFO:

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

DATE:

FILE:

23

NOV 63'

CLASSIFICATION.

DEFERRED

NITIALS

PRIORITY

DIG

INCOMING NUMISENT

ROUTINE

OPERATIONAL

•INITIALS

TO

XXXXIMMEDIATE

PRO

38 2223407

6663

IMMEDIATE MEXI

INFO

CITE

RYBAT

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

DIR SNIGH

NUTE

REF. MEXI 97014'

RELEASE IN FULL

1999

1 THANKS. THIS CONNECTION WAS ALSO NOTED HERE..

2. TRUST YOU WILL BE ABLE USE ALL YOUR FACILITIES A

REPORT SOVIET EMBASSY ACTIVITY AND REACTION

OBLOW AND

PLEASE CABLE FULL

•SUMMARIES.

90e 1

END

OF

REPRODOSIION

PANESE HOURS.

DUP

26-8

23/00227

SO PET

CLASSIFICATION

INCOMING

0000191

1507 71

---

## Page 41

14-00000

CIA SPECIAL COLLECTIONS

RELEASE IN FULL

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

ROUTING

TO

& DIRECTOR

2

31

FROM & MEXICO CITY

8S BOPY

ACTIONA

WH & (MR WHITTEN, WA & NIGHT SECURITY OFFICER NOTIFTED AND COPY SLOTTED AT

2015, 22 NOV BP)

INFO I DEL, D/DCI, DDP, ADDP, CI, CL/OPS, C//IC 2, FI, SR 7, SAS 8, OS 2, VR

SECTET 2303532

IMMEDIATE DIR CITE/MEXI TRIS 201-289248

REF: MEXI 7814(1N 66781)

MEXI STATION HAS PHOTOS SAME

ENTIFIED AMERICAN

JIPE WHO IS POSSIBLY OSWALD ENTERING O

SAN EMBASSY ON 15

OCTOBER.

SEARCHING FOR POSSIBI

•PHOTO-DOCUMENTED ENTRY.

CUBAN EMBASSY OTHER DAYS:

2.

ALSO ATTEMPIING ESTABLISH OSWALD ENTRY AND DEPAR'SURE.

MEXIO

22N0: 63 IN 66 8 46

C/S Comment:' *Request priority pouch photo Oswald so that Station can chack a!!

reces: coverage for ideatity. Forwarding soonest copies of only visitos to sovEnb.

23 On. who could be identical with Oswald.

0000192

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW

CONDUCTED ONI 6 APR 1076

ELZEMPDET CL BY 012208

0: 200-5-41

Document Number

270-10

for FOlA RevieW on AFR. 1976

E3 SOM

ES COPY:

20-36

22.11006.3

701-289248

22N0U63

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

Copy No.

160F71

---

## Page 42

14-00000

ORIG: JOHN M. WHITTEN

UNIT :

C/WH/3

EXT

DATE :

5613

D INDEX

D NO INDEX

22. NOY. 63

O FILE IN CS FILE NO..

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

P30 SECRET

70 . : MEXICO CITY

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF:

WH 8

CS COPY

DCl,

OS 2, VR

D/DCI, DDP, ADDP, CI, CL/OPS, C1/IC 2, FI, SR 7, SAS 8,

XX

TO .

(PRIX) MOXI

date abanze

22 Norto. 23 Nor

RE MEXI 7019 (IN 66846) #

SEND STAFFER WITE ALL PHOTOS OSWA

AVAILABLE FLIGHT. CALL MR. WHI

END OF

C/S Comment: *Reference

atta

12-62

ROUTING

Nor. 23

1 / 36:63

23 Now: 63

DEFERREOSECT.

ROUTINE

84821

HQS. ON NEXT

3652-6827 ON ARRIVAL.

Document Numbar

for FOlA Review opi

51

2-18

APR 1976

D: 200-5-41

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW

CONDUCTED ON

1 6 APR 1978

E 3 INDET CL BY 012208

0000193

201-289248

23 Ne 63.

JOHN M. WHITTEN by direction

CS. COPYI

THOMAS KARAMESSINES ADSBPDINATING OFFICERS

GROUP &

Excluded from automatic

SECRET

downgrading and

• declassification

REPRODUCTION BY

OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

AUTHENTICATINO :

HEMATTE

Copy No.:"

170F71

---

## Page 43

14-00000

GRIS, BIRCH O'NEAL

CHI CONSIN

EXr. ..:

: 5367

DATE : 23 NOV 63

1,10g

•TO : MEXICO CITY

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONFiCI/SI

INFO : DCI;

D/DCI, DDP, ADDP

CS. COPY

23,0

10 a

ROU'l

C1/OPS, C1/10:2, FI, SR. 7, WH 7,

IMMEDLATE

TO

IMMEDIATE MEXI

REF: MEXI 6453 (IN 36017)7

CIA SPECIAL COLLECTIONS 4 8 8 6

RELEASE IN FULL

I. IMPORTANT YOU REVIEW ALL LIENVOY TAPES AND

TRANSCRIPTS SINCE 27 SEPTEMBER TO LOCATE ALL A

LAL

POSSIBLE LEER TENNE TO SUBJECT REF

DISPATCH SOONEST BY SPECIAL COURS

TAFFER IF

NECESSARY FULL TRANSCRIPTS AND OR

JAL TAPES IF

AVAILABLE ALL PERTINENT MATE

ARE ORIGINAL TAPES

ABLE?

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW

16 APR 1975

CONDUCTED ON.

E/8ZIMPDET CL BY 0/220

END OF MESSAGE

CS Comment:

*Reported that.on I October. 63, an American male who said.

his name-was Lee

Oswald was at the Soviet Embassy in Mexico City•

Document Number 40-54l

201-289248:

2633853

D: 200-5-41

for FOlA Review ori.

APR 1976

200-5-41

23N0U63

ES COPYA

RELEASING OFFICER.

COORDINATING OFFICERS

Excluded l

on tomatic

crosstation

ne. and

SACKET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

-в1.

JOHN C. WHITTEN

WH3

AUTHENTICATING

OFFICER

•Copy No.

*0000194

Approved for Release

by the Central Intelligence Agency.

Date: 2/2003

TOR 79

---

## Page 44

14-00000

DISTR:

-ACTION!

INFO:

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

DATE:

23. NOV

63

FILE:

CLASSIFICATION

DEFERRED

INITIALS

ROUTINE

PRIORITY

OPERATIONAL

lAMEDIATE

DIG

INCOMING HUNUER

TO

INITIALS

PHO

INFO

2317167

IMMEDIATE MEXI

6680

CITE

REF& MEXI 6453

DIR SURR

IMPORTANT. YOU REVIEW ALL LIENVOY TAPES AND TRANSCRIPTS

SINCE 27 SEPTEMBER TO LOCATE ALL MATERIAL POSSIBLY

RTINENT ®

TO SUBJECT REF..

IF

NECESSARK,

AVAILABLE ALL PERTINENT MATERIAL

ARE ORIGINAL TAPES AVAILAB

ODECTION

MESSAGE

GIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

RELEASE IN FULL

1999

DUP

40-541

CHROMO DUMMY

23/18017

LECRET

CLASSIFICATION

INCOMING

0000195

+54753369

190871

---

## Page 45

14-00000

CLASSIF ED

UNIT :

EXT

DATE :

JOTT M. WATTIEN

C/VE

3

D :031

5613

O NO INDEX

23_MOVEMBER 1963 O FILE IN CS ELENO

TO

PRICO CITY

23 Now 50

1T 292

FROM: DIRECTOR

CIA SPECIAL NOLLECTIONS

RELEASE IN FULL

CONF:

C/WH 5

DEFERS CET

ROUTINE

INFO :

DCI, D/DCI, DDP, ADDP, C/CI, C/F| 2, C/SR 5, C/SAS 5, D/Os 2,

TO

IMMEDIATE MIXT

INFO

CITE DIR

84888

= ODENVY SAYS THAT PROTOS DE MAN ENTERTIO SOVIDA FURASSI

DiLIAS WERE NOT OF LEE OSWALD.

PRESUME MEXT HAS DOUREd.

PHOTOS AND IS ALSO CHECKTUG ALL FERITIENT OFFER PHOTOS

USWALD.

XI SENT TO

ED DAIES OF THESE

POSSIBLE SEOTS OF

RpaS

END OF MISSION

DOC. MICRO. SER.

DEG 4

19/4

MICROFILMED

Document Number

-38

for FOIA Review on APR 1975

RECORDS OFFICER STAMP

The following.

ison solse

authorizod:

Signed:

R.0. #1 - Unit CLOPS

Note:

If destruction.

cite

reasons

and coordinate

1f appropriate.

D: 200-5-41

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW

18 APR 1978

CONDUCTED ON

ELSHIPDET CL BY O / 2208

CS COPY

201-289248

2005-41

2320063

V/

VILIANE.

HOOD

Via/COFS

RELEASIMO OFFICER

0000196

COORDINATING OFFICERS

GROUP 1

Excludes trom automatle

I OF IT.

duangisding and

-declassification

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

C/WH. 3

AUTHERTICATING

OFFICER

Copy No..

Approved ior Release

by the Central Intelligence Agency

Date: 312003

20 66 7!

---

## Page 46

14-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSÄGE

SEGRET

ROUTING

4

ro

¿ DIRECTOR

ES COPT

3

ROM !

iCTION,:

MEXICO CITY

C/A 5 (MR. WHITTEN, WH, NOTIFIED AND. COPY. SLOTTED AT 1255 34 NOV 63 LMS)

DCI, D/DCI, DDP, ADDP, C/CT, C/F| 2, C/SR 5, C/SAS 5, D/OS 2,

231 65 9Z

IMMEDIATE DIR CITE

NEXI. 7023

23 Now 63 IN 67108

LIENVOY.

CABLES.

1. ON 28. SEP 63 SILVIA

AD URAN CUBAN EMB CALLED SO EASE IN FUL

CONSUL SAYING NORTHAMERICAN THERE WHO HAD BEEN SOV

EMB AND WISH

SPEAX WITH CONSUL.

UNIDEN. NORT HAMERICAN TOLD

sOV. CONSUL QUOTE

"I WAS IN YOUR EMB AND SPOKE TO. YOUR CONSUL. . I WAS JUST

NOW AT

YOUR EMB AND THEY TOOK MY ADDRESS," SOV CONSUL SAYS "I

THAT" •

UNIDEN NORT HAMER ICAN SPEAKS RUSSIAN "' I DID NOT KNOW

I WENT TO THE CUBAN EMB TO ASK THEM FOR MY ADDRE

AUSE THEY

HAVE IT"

SOV CONSUL"WHY DONT YOU COME AGA

LEAVE YOUR

ADDRESS WITH US IT IS NOT FAR FROM CUBAS

UNIDEN

NORT HAMER ICAN "WELL, I'LL BE THERE

AWAY. ". MONITOR

NOTES

UNIDEN NORTHAMERICAN SPOKE TERRI

HARDLY RECOGNIZABLE

• RUSSIAN.

IN VIE

SWALD IN SOV UNION AND FACT HE CLAIMED ON ! OCI

ELa 2IMADET AL BY O 1220S

for fOlA Review On 1 AiR 1976

LIENVOY TO HAVE VISITED SOV EMB 28 SEP, SUBJECT' PARA ONE PROBABLY

OSWALD. STATION UNABLE COMPARE VOICE AS FIRST TAPE ERASED. PRIOR

RECEIPT SECOND CALLO

iN 6678)

S• PARA THREE MEXI 7014 DATE SHOULD BE ONE OCT

63.

SAME

SUBJECT VISITED SOVEMBA OCT BUT NOT RECORDER LIENVOY THAT DATE.

ALSO POUCHING 4 OCT PHOTOS.

201287248

MAXING EVERY EFFORT DEFER FARE OSVALDS ACTIVITIES MEXICO eU 6.3

-SECREE

REPRODUCTION. BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

Copy No.

CONDUCTED ON E APR 1976

49

Document Number

Approved for Release

0000197

by the Central Intelligence Agency

Date: 2/2081

21 0F 7)

Left:

---

## Page 47

14-00000

ORIG.:

EXT.:

DISTR.:

TO

R. B, RIGGS

"CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

RELEASE IN FULL

CLASSIFILOO@SSAGE

(t4)

COMMO

CHRONO (DUMMY)

CLASSiFICATION

•INITIALS

DTS.

DATE:

i: 23 NOVEMBER 1963

FILE:

P-8593

Silvia DURAN P-

VEAL PA

NUMBER

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

XX

PRIORITY

OPERATIONAL

IMMEDIATE

INITIALS

IMMEDIATE DIR

INFO.

CITE MEXI Z87ER

LIENVOY

DUP OF

49-515

1. ON 28 SEP 63 SILVIA DURAN CUBAN EMB CALLED SOV "CONSUL

SAYING NORTHAMERICAN THERE WHO HAD BEEN SOV EME

BAND WISH

SPEAK WITH CONSUL. UNIDEN NORTHAMERIÇAN TOL

"QUOTE "I WAS IN YOUR EMB AND SPOKE TO YOUR

JUST NOW AT YOUR EMB AND THEY TOOK MI

PE CONSUL

SUL. I WAS

PRESS.". SOV CONSUL

SAYS "I KNOW THAT." UNIDEN NORTA

DID NOT KNOW IT THEN. IWENT

MY ADDRESS BECAUSE THE

AN SPEAKS RUSSIAN "I

CUBAN EMB TO ASK. THEM FOR

" SOV CONSUL "WHY DONT YOU

COME AGAIN AND LEAVE YOUR ADDRESS WITH US IT IS NOT FAR FROM

CUBAN EMB," UNIDEN NORTHAMERICAN "WELL, I'LL BE THERE

RIGHT AWAY." MONITOR NOTES UNIDEN NORTHAMERICAN SPOKE

TERRIBLE HARDLY RECOGNIZABLE RUSSIAN.

2. IN VIEW OSWALD IN SOV UNION AND FACT HE CLAIMED ON

I OCT LIENVOY TO HAVE VISITED SOV EMB 28 SEP ¿ SUBJECI PARA ONE

PROBABLY OSWALD. STATION UNABLE COMPARE VOICE AS FIRST TAPE

EXELASAX

COORDINATING OFFICERS

AUTHENTICATING OFFICEN

RECKET

CLASSIFICATION

RELEASING OFFICER

OUTGOING

0000198

---

## Page 48

14-00000

XT.:"

DISTR.:

Page 2.

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

CLASSIPICATION

FINITIALE

DTO.

INITIALT

DATE:

FILE:

TO

PRIORITY

OPERATIONAL

IMMEDIATE

NUMDER

INFO.

ERASED PRIOR RECEIPT SECOND CALL.

• CITE

NUNDER

3. PARA THREE MEXI 7014 SHOULD BE ONE/OCT 63.

REPEAT ONE

SAME SUBJECT

VISITED SOVEMB 4 OCT BUT NOT RECORDED LIENVOY THAT DATE.

ALSO POUCHING 4 OCT PHOTOS.

4..

MAKING EVERY EFFORT DETERMINE OSWALDR ACTIVITIES

MEXICO.

END OF MSG

REPRODUCTION PROMRITED

RBR

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

COORDINATING OFFICERS

SECRET

CLASSIPICATION

OUTGOING

WCC

RELEASING OFFICER

0000199

23.0F71

---

## Page 49

14-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGÉ

DOC. MICRO. SER

ROUTING

I DIRECTOR

DEC 4

1974

5

¡ROM

• MEXICO.CIT)

MICROFILMED

AS COCTIA SPECIAL COLLECTIONS

ICTION, C/SR 5.

RELEASE IN FULL

(MR. WHITTEN, WH AND MR. BAGLEY, SR NOTIFIED AND COPY SLOTTED AT: 1605

23 NOV 63 WB),

FO • DCI,. D/DCI, DDP, ADDP,

g/Ca, C/C1/OPS, C/FI, C/WHi 2, D/05.2,. VR

gb+752319117

INMEDIATE DIR

PADAF REDWOOD

L CIMPROVE

REF

Ao

"DIR

84837*

B... DIR 84885 *

C. DIR 84886*

RECORDS OFFICER STAMP

Signed:

R.0. #1 - Un1t <EUDS

Note:

Is deerrur:log.

reasons and coo

11 appropriat

1.. SARA L A REF A, STATION'S IMMEDIATE AI

CHECK INDICATES NO OTHERE

1

KOST IXOU TRAVEL

LIL TRIC REPORTING 6 THRU 19 NOV

DAY. SNO LILYRIC REPORTING

EARLY THIS AFTERNOON RE.

UNDER LIEMÉRACE SURVEIL

23 N0: 631167179

LIKELY DEFINITIVE

SIDE MEXIS

MOST RECENT

RUSTIKOV AT SOV EMB EVERY

AD

1617 NOV. WILL GET REPORTING

ACTIVITIES 22 NOV. PLACING HIM

20 PARA 28 REF A,- NO RECENT UNUSUAL XGB AND SOVEME PER SOALNEL

ACTIVITIES 1.7. NOV TO DATE.

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW.

CONDUCTED ON 6 APR 1976

3. WILL SATISFY ALL OTHER REF A REQUIREMENTS ASANZIMPDET CL BY 012.208

A.. REF B, IMMEDIATE AND FROBABLY DEFINITIVE CHECK SHOWS NO OTHER

ALFERIEV. TRAVEL. LILYRIC REPORTING SHOWS ALFERIEV AT 'SOVEMB 6

For FOlA Review on

APR 1976

THRU 19 NOV.

(NO LILYRIC COVERAGE 9510 AND 16-17 NOV.>

5. COVERING ALFER IEV ACTIVITIES SAME AS WITH KOSTIKOV. WILL

FLACE HIM UNDER LIRICE SURVEILLANCE ASAP.

201-289248

1: 200-5-4124

IS COPY

200-5-411-

B201-305052

SEGRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIRITER

Document Number

62

-24

Destrasitied and Approved for Releas 00 00200

by the Central Intelligence Agency

Date: 2/2003

205F 21

---

## Page 50

14-00000

S Sailine 01l0

Nucib.

JOR ASSED MESSAGE

ol this dos

IN 67170 PAGE 2

6. OTHEP THAN INFO ALREADY SENT RE OSWALD'S. CONNECTION WITH SOU

AND CUBAN EMBS, NO OTHER INFO AVAILABLE. HOWEVER; STATION STAFF

COMBING ALL AVAILABLE MATERIALS.

7. STEPPING UP RECEIPT ALL INCOMING MATERIALS COVERING. SOVEMS,

4

TRYING GET LIFEAT COVERAGE OF SWITCHBOARD OF APT BUILDING WHERE

RESIDE WIN KAZANI SEV, SUSPECT X69 RESIDENT KONSTANTINOV AND SUSPECT

GRU SHCHUCHKIN.. HAVING LIPAWN REPORT MOVEMENIS SIDOROV AND -

MAKE

SPECIÄL EFFORT RE AUDIO OP AGAINST SID.

INCOMING LIFEAT ON

KGB

KUZNET SOV WILL BE PROCESSED ASAP.

8.

PROBABLE THAT OSWALD CONVERSATION LIENVOY. TAPES ERASED.

6

HOWEVER RECHECKING ALL UNERASED TAPES, LIENVOY CENTER. SEP CABLE

PROVIDES VERBAT IM TRANSCRIPTS.

C/S COMMENT: *Requested information

Kostikov.

REPRODUCTION®

Valeriy Vladimirovich

0000201

450F 71

---

## Page 51

14-00000

(44)

ORIG:

EXT.:

OISTR.:

GOK G.F. GESTETNER

70

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

CHRONO (DUMMY

SOONE

CLASSIFICATION.

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

•INITIALO

DrO.

ĐATE: 23 NOVEMBER 1963

FILE: <P-8593

KOSTIKOV P-

ALFERIEV P-

NUMBER

PRIORITY

XX

OPERATIONAL

IMMEDIATE

INITIALO

IMMEDIATE DIR

INFO.

702&

CITE MEXI NUMBER

REF:

RYBAT REDWOOD LIMPROVE

A. DIR 84837

B. DIR 84835

C. DIR 84886

012-24

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM®

RELEASE IN FULL

1999

PARA LA REF A, STATION'S IMMEDIATE

KELY

DEFINITIVE CHECK INDICATES NO OTHER KO

MEXI. MOST RECENT LILYRIC REPOR

TRAVEL OUISIDE

THRU 19 NOV SHOWS

KOSTIKOV AT SOY EMB EVERY D

LILYRIC REPORTING 9-10

AND 16-17 NOV. WILL GET

TING EARLY THIS AFTERNOON RE

KOSTIKOV ACTIVITIES 22

PLACING HIM UNDER LIEMBRACE

SURVEILLANCE.

2. PARA 2B REE A: NO RECENT UNUSUAL KGB AND SOVEMB

PERSONNEL ACTIVITIES 17 NOV TO DATE..

3: WILL SATISFY ALL OTHER REF A REQUIREMENTS ASAP.

4. REF B, IMMEDIATE AND PROBABLY DEFINITIVE CHECK SHOWS

NO OTHER ALFERIEV TRAVEL. LILYRIC REPORTING SHOWS ALFERIEV

AT SOVEMB 6 THRU 19 NOV •CONBHAUF, GRY ERAGE 9-10 AND 16-17 NOV.)

AUTHENTICATINO OFFICER

CLASSIFICATION

OUTGOING

RELEASING OFFICER

0000202

200f 71

---

## Page 52

14-00000

The Attached document page 0000276:

is

a replacement page for 0000203.

0000203

is not to be destroyed

or

taken out of the original package

that it is included

In.

Document

0000276 may be inserted in front

of document 0000203.

(ti)

DISTR.:

DATE:

FILE:

TO

Page 2.

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

PRIORITY

OPERA

IMA

OTG.

NUMBER

INITIALS

• INFO.

CITE

702€

NUMBER

5. COVERING. ALFERIEV ACTIVITIES SAME AS WITH KOSTIKOV•

WILL PLACE HIM UNDER LIRICE SURVEILLANCE ASAP.

6. OTHER THAN INFO ALREADY SENT RE OSWALD'S CONNECTION

WITH SOV AND CUBAN EMBS, NO OTHER INFO AVAILABLE.

HOWEVER&

STATION STAFF COMBING ALL AVAILABLE MATER

2. STEPPINE UE RECEIPY ALL ICONE MATERALS COYSRING

SOVEMB, TRYING GEI LIFEAT

ERAGE OF SWIICHBOARD OF APT

BUILDING WHERE RESIDE

IZANTSEV, SUSPECT KGB RESIDENT

KONSTANZNOY AND SUSPECI GAU SHCHUCHKIN HAVING LPAWNREZORT

MOVEMENTS SIDOROV AND MAKE SPECIAL EFFORT RE AUDIO OP AGAINST

S11. INCOMING LIFEAT ON KGB KUZNETSOV WILL BE PROCESSED ASAP..

8. PROBABLE THAT OSWALD CONVERSATION LIENVOY TAPES

ERASED. HOWEVER RECHECKING ALL UNERASED TAPES LIENVOY

CENTER. SEP CABLE PROVIDES VERBATIM TRANSCRIPTS.

END OF MSG

AUTHENTiCATING OFFICER

COORDINATING OFFICERS

CLASS TEA TON

OUTGOING

0800276

RELEASING EFICER

---

## Page 53

14-00000

ORIE.:

EXT.:

DISTR.:

Page 2.

DEFERPED

ROUTINE

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

CLASSIFICATION

. INITIALS

DO.

INITIALO

DATE:

FILE:

TO

PRIORITY

OPERATIONAL

IMMEDIATE

NUMBER

INFO.

ERASED PRIOR RECEIPT SECOND CALL.

CITE

"NUNDER

REPEAT ONE

PARA THREE MEXI 7014 SHOULD BE ONE/OCT 63. SAME SUBJECT

VISITED SOVEMB 4 OCT BUT NOT RECORDED LIENVOY THAT DATE.

ALSO POUCHING 4 OCT PHOTOS.

4. MAKING EVERY EFFORT DETERMINE OSWALDS AC

is sian praist

MEXICO

END OF MSG

PROHIBITES

REPRODUCTION

RBR

AUTHENTICATINO OFFICER

COORDINATING OFFICERS

BOCKLI

CLASSIFICATION

OUTGOING

0000203

WCC

RELEASING OFFICER

2loF 71

---

## Page 54

14-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGA (

37)

EFER

ROUTING

DOC. MICRO. SER

TO

& DIRECTOR

CS COPA

DEC.4

19/4

FROM

• MEXICO GITY

MICROFILMED

ACTION:

INFO

ENO COPY SLOTTED ATENTO ITOO NOV LEY

(MR WHITTEN; WH, MR, BALLEY, SR, AND NIGHT SECURITY OFFICE NOTIFIED

• DEI, D/DCI, DDP, ADDP, C/CI, G/TS 2, G/SR 545C8A8S 5mP/eS 33rAR

3461292320347

IMMEDIATE DIR

ITE MEXE 7025

"CONDUCTED ON_

CLASSICA OE APRESTO,

Signed:

R.O: *I - UnItCHeS

ELAZIMPDET CL BY O/220S

- 23K0763 W67188

If deciriarien.

FOLLOWING FULL TRANSCRIPTS AVAILABLE.

reasona and coordinate

28 SEPTEMBER 1963 LLENVOY REPORTED FOLS

11 appropriate.

"ENTRADA MF DEL

CONSULADO DEL CUBA QUIEN DICE QUE ALLI EN. SU CONSULADO ESTA

UN

NORTEAMERICANO QUE ESTUVO ALLI EN LA EMBAJADADA RUSAS

ESPERE UN MOMENTO

MF. ES SILVIA DURAN Y HABLA IN

-8

ON ALGUNA

PERSONA FUERA: Y COMENTA EN ESPANOL QUE LA PUSIER

* TELEFONO A

APARICIO Y LO APUNTA QUE ES EL 14 12 99

LA LE DICE SOBRE. EL

CIUDADANO NORTEAMERICANO y QUE LES

HABLAR.

HE HABLA RUSO.

HD LE HABLA EN INGLES. "' SILVI

WASKS NORTHAMERICAN "DO YOU

SPEAK RUSSIANZ"' "THEN WHY DONTSYOU JALK TO HIM?" NORTHAMERICAN

TAKES PHONE AND SAYS IN BORKEN RUSSIAN "I WAS IN YOUR EMBASSY AND

SPOKE TO YUOR CONSUL. JUSI A MINUTE." MAN IN SOV EMB ASKS

NORIHAMERICAN IN ENGLISH WHAT DOES HE WANT? NORTHAMERICAN:

io: FOlA Review on

APR 1976:

"PLEASE SPEAK RUSSIAN"® SOVIET: "WHAT ELSE DO YOU WANT?"

Document Number .

64-559

NORTH-

AMERICAN: "I WAS JUST NOW AT YOUR EMBASSY AND THEY TOOK MY

ADDRESS, " SOVIET: "I KNOW THAI." NORTHAMERICANS "I DID NOT KNOW

D: 200=5-41

201-289248

3201-7407.20

350

Es Copy;

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITED

23N0U6

chodos lou

Copy No.

CIA SPECIAL COLLECTIONS

RELEASE IN FULL

0000204

28 0F71

---

## Page 55

14-00000

67181

2

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

IN

PAGE

I THENO

I WENT TO THE CUBAN EMBASSY TO ASK THEE FOR MY ADDRESS

ECAUSE THEY HAVE IT. " SOVIET:

"WHY DONT YOU COME AGAIN AND LEAVP

OUR. ADDRESS WITH US. IT IS NOT FAR. FROM THE CUBAN EMBASSY. ".

ORTHAMERICAN: "WELL I'LL BE THERE RIGHT AWAY." DOUGLAS JO

EINGLASS NOTED NORIHAMERICAN SPOKE TERRIBLE HARDLY RECOGNIZABLE

USSIAN.

• ON ONE OCTOBER 1963 AT 104S HOURS MAN CALLED SOVIET EMB AND SAID

HELLO THIS IS/LEE OSWALD SPEAKING.

I WAS AT YOUR PLACE LAST

ATURDAY AND SPOKE WITH THE CONSUL AND THEY SAID THAT THEY•D

END A TELEGRÁM TO WASHINGTON SO I WANTED TO FIND OUT IF YOU HAVE

INYTHING NEW? BUT I DONT REMEMBER THE NAME OF THAT CONSUL. "

¡OVIET (EMBASSY GUARD OBYEDKOV): "KOSTIKOV: HE IS DARK. "

10: "YES.: MY. NAME IS OSWALD.* SOVIET: "JUST A MINUTE 'I'LL

'IND OUI.. THEY SAY THAT THEY HAVEN'T RECEIVED ANYTHIN

10: "HAVE THEY DONE ANYTHING?" SOVIET: "YES THAY ONES

REQUEST HAS BEEN SENT OUT BUT NOTHING HAS BE

SERRECEIVED AS YET, "

10: "AND WHAT.

•?" SOVIET HANGS..UP

4. • DOUGLAS. J.

•EINGLASS WHO-DI

SIPTIONS SAYS OSWALD IS

IDENTICAL WITH

PERSON PARA: ONE

AKING BROKEN RUSSIAN WHO CALLED

FROM CUBAN EMBASSY 28 SEPTEMBER TO SOVIET EMBASSY.

CS Coriment:

"#Kequested Station reviev all LIENVOY (1) tapes and transo

since 27 Sept. to lorate pertinent information on Oswald.

0000205

29 0€71

---

## Page 56

14-00000

60.12- 130,1

(14)

ORIG.:

EXT.:

R. B. RIGGS

DISTR: • COMMO

CHRONO (DUMMY)

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

PRIORITY

OPERATIONAL

IMMEDIATE

TO

IMMEDIATE DIR

INFO,

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

OPERET

CLASSIFICATION

DATE: 23 NOVEMBER 1963

FILER

P-8593

Silvia DURAN P

INITIALO

DIG.

KOSTIKOV P-

NUMBEN

-CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

RELEASE IN FULL

1999ITE MEXI =7025

. RYBAT LIENVOY

DUP OT

68g-

REF: DIR 84886

1. FOLLOWING FULL TRANSCRIPIS AVAILABLE.

2. ON 28 SEPTEMBER 1963 LIENVOY REPORTED

•ME DEL CONSULADO DEL. CUBA QUIEN DICE QUE

ESTA UN NORTEAMERICANO QUE ESTUVOVO?

RUSA, UD QUE ESFERE UN MOMEN

INGLES CON' ALGUNA PERSOI

NIRADA

I SU CONSULADO

EN LA EMBAJADADA

ME ES SILVIA DURAN Y HABLA

GERA Y COMENTA EN ESPAÑOL QUE

LA PUSIERON TELEFONO A APARICIO Y LO APUNTA QUE ES EL

1 $ 12 99. SILVIA LE DICE SOBRE EL CIUDADANO NORTEAMERICANO Y

QUE LES VA A HABIAR. HF HABLA RUSO, HD LE HABLA EN 'INGLES. "

SILVIA DURAN ASKS NORTHAMERICAN "DO YOU SPEAK RUSSIAN?" THEN

"WHY DONT YOU TALK TO HIM?" NORTHAMERICAN TAKES PHONE AND

SAYS IN BROKEN RUSSIAN "I WAS IN YOUR EMBASSY AND SPOKE TO YOUR

CONSUL." MAN IN SOV EMB "JUSI A MINUTE," MAN IN SOV EMB ASKS

NORTHAMERICAN IN ENGLISH WHAT DOES HE WANT? NORTHAMERICAN:

COORDINETING OFFICERS

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

0000206

CLASSIFICATION

RELEASING OFFICER

OUTGOING

5

33

---

## Page 57

14-00000

i1.3;

(14}

ORiG.

:XT.:

"ISTR.:

CLASSIFIED IMESSAGE

DATE:

FILE:

PAGE 2.

CLASSIFICATION

DEFERRED

INITIALS

DIG.

NUMBEN

INITIALS

ROUTINE

PRIORITY

OPERATIONAL

IMMEDIATE

INFO.

CIFE

12025

"PLEASE SPEAK RUSSIAN", SOVIET: "WHAT ELSE DO YOU WANT?"

NORTHAMERICAN: "I WAS JUST NOW AT YOUR EMBASSY AND THEY

TOOK MY ADDRESS." SOVIET: "IXXX KNOW THAT." NORTHAMERICAN:

"I DID NOT KNOW IT THEN. I WENT TO THE CUBAN EMBASSY TO ASK

"THEM FOR MY ADDRESS BECAUSE THEY HAVE IT. " SOVIET

DONT YOU COME AGAIN AND LEAVE YOUR ADDRESS WIT

'IS NOT

FAR FROM THE CUBAN EMBASSY, " NORTHAMERI

WELL IILL BE

THERE RIGHT AWAY," DOUGLAS J. FEINGLA

"SPOKE TERRIBLE HARDLY RECOGNIZA

'ED NORTHAMERICAN

USSIAN.

3. ON ONE OCTOBER 1963

HOURS MAN CALLED SOVIET

EMB AND SAID "HELLO THIS IS LEL OSWALD SPEAKING, I WAS AI YOUR

PLACE LAST SATURDAY AND SPOKE WITH THE CONSUL AND THEY SAID

THAT THEY'D SEND A TELEGRAM TO WASHINGTON SO I WANTED TO FIND

OUT IF YOU HAVE ANYTHING NEW? BUT IDONT REMEMBER THE NAME

OF THAI CONSUL," SOVIET (EMBASSY GUARD OBYEDKOV): "KOSTIKOV:

HE IS DARK." MO: "YES. MY NAME IS OSWALD." SOVIET: "JUST A

MINUTE I'LL FIND OUT.

TEET A TINHAFICEHEY HAVEN'T RECEIVED

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

CLASSIFICATION

OUTGOING

RELEASING OFFICER

0000207

31UF71

---

## Page 58

14-00000

ij.si

(**)

'RIG;

XI.:

MISTR.!

TO

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

DATE:

FILE:

Page 3.

CLASSIFICATION

INITIALS

OrG.

DEFERRED

NUMBER

INITIALS

ROUTINE

PRIORITY

OPERATIONAL

IMMEDIATE

INFO.

CITE

1OL

NUMBER

ANYTHING YET. MO: "HAVE THEY DONE ANYTHING?" SOVIET: "YES

THEY SAY THAT A REQUEST HAS BEEN SENT OUT BUT NOTHING HAS

BEEN RECEIVED AS YET." MO: "AND WHAT..?" SOVIET HANGS UP.

4.

DOUGLAS J. FEINGLASS WHO DID TRANSCRIPTIONS SAYS

OSWALD IS IDENTICAL WITH PERSON PARA ONE SPEA

ROKEN

RUSSIAN WHO CALLED FROM CUBAN EMBASSY

EMBASSY.

END OF MSG

DUCTION PRO

MBER TO SOVIET

COORDINATING OFFICERS

AUTHENFBPING OFFICER

0000208

RELEASINGGEFICER

OUTGOING

32 0F 7!

---

## Page 59

14-00000

CLASSIFIEO MESSAGE

SECRET

TO

I. DIRECTOR

DOC. MICRO. SER

DEC 4

1974

MICROFILMED

ROUTING

FROM : MEXICO CITY

CS COPV

ACTION: C/WH. 5. (MR. WHITTEN, WH MR. BAGLEY, SR AND NIGHT SECURITY OFFICE NOTIFIED AND

INFO

-1700 23 NOV WB).

•DCI, D/DCI, DDP, ADDP,

COPY SLOTAD AT: /CI, C/FI 2, C/SR 5, C/SAS 5, D/OS 2, Vi

SECRET 232BA5Z

IMMEDIATE DIR CITE MEXI 7028

23 H0u 63 1N67187

REF

MEXI 7025 (IN 6T/83.)*

COS HAD URGENT CALL TO SEE LITENSOR) 23 NOV.

20

COS THOUGKT WOULD BE FOR LITENSOR EXPRESSION

CONDOLENG

OVER LOSS OF PRES KENNEDY BUT DEVELOPED

THAT LIEÑUOY AHAR LOCATED CALL TO SOVIET EMBAR

MADE ON 28 SEPTEMBER..

30

ph

LEE

OSWALD

BELIEVE FACT THAT(LITENSOR) AVARI

SHES CONTACT CEROR OUTY

_JOINT OPERATIOND AND PASSED D

ASCOS IS IMPORTANT.

SEGRETA..U

CS Comment: #Forwarded a

of LIENVOY (2) transcripts.

PipE ESS

RECORDS OFFI.BR STAUP

en 1o

Tho following

authorized:

Downsels

4

EL IMPDET CL BY C/22:8

CONDUCTED ON I 6'APR 1976

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW

D: 266-5-41

Document Number

58-549

519

for FOld Ravier on

APR 1976

Es copy:

signed:

R.O. #1

-Unit ClasS

Note:

If destruc' tot.

cite

reasons and

coordinate

1f apercoriale.

201-289218

23 N0U63

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

Copy No.

0003209

330F7!

---

## Page 60

14-00000

UNCLASSIFIED

SUBJECT: (Optional)

FROM:

ACTION COPY

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and

building)

DATE

RECEIVED

FOrWARDED

SCOTT

2.

WHITE

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

C IDENTIAL

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SPECIAL COLLECTIONS

RELEASE IN FULL

NO.

SECRET

7621

DATE

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

NOK 2 3 1963

COMMENTS (Number ooch commons lo show from whom

to whom.

Drow a line odoss column ofter each comment.)

NOY 23

DUP OF

Approved for Release

by the Central Intelligence Agency

Date:

2/2003

To do Mam

Litinson s

10.

11.

02.

13.

14.

15.

FORM

3-62

0000210

610 USE PRENOUS

•SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

340F 71

---

## Page 61

14-00000

PRIG.:

¿XT.:

"IISTR.:

(14).

TO

COS

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

COMMO

CHRONO (DUMMY)

SECRET

CLASSIFICATION

ENDEARE

DTG.

DATE:

23 NOVEMBER 1963

FILE:

(P:8593)

LITENSOR P

LIENVOY/Prod

NUMBEN

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

PRIORITY

OPERATIONAL

IMMEDIATE

INITIALS

IMMEDIATE DIR

INFO.

CITE MEXI

8028

NONBER

KAPOK

REF: MEXI-7025

1. COS HAD URGENT CALL TO SEE(LITENSOR 23 NOV.

2. COS THOUGHI WOULD BE FOR LITENSOR EXPRESSION

CONDOLENCE OVER LOSS OF PRES KENNEDY BUT

YELOPED THAT

LIENVOY 2 HAD LOCATED CALL TO SOVIET D

OF LEE OSWALD

MADE ON 28 SEPTEMBER

3. BELIEVE FACT THA

SOR AWARE OF THIS CONTACT

FEROM OUR JOINT OF

AND PASSED DATA TO COS IS IMPORTANT.

END OF MSG

DUP

58-549

0000211

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

COORDINATING OFFICERS

SECRET

CLASSIFICATION

OUTGOING

v.C.C

RELEASING OFFICER

35. 0F7)

---

## Page 62

14-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

DIRECTOR

OM 8. MEXICO CITY

DOC. MICRO. SERI

DEC 4

1Y14

MICROFILMED

ROUTING

CIA SPECTAT COLLECTIONS

RELEASE IN FULL

TION: C/WH 5.

MR WHITTEN, WH AND OS NOTIFIED AND COPY SLOTTED AT: 8715 23 NOV We):

FO → DCI, D/OCS, DDP, ADDP, C/C8 C/FL 2, C/SR 5, C/SAS 5, D/05:2, - VR

RECORDS OFFICER STAMP

Totient.

FEG

- E. 2320482

IMMEDIATE DIR

(CITE MEXI '7029

authorized: sessin

Signed:

1 Haut

REF

8. 0. 11 - Unst (IASS.

33IN67190

Ao

DIR 84888$

Note:

If dertruction

B. • MEXI 7025(1N67184)

1 3$636.

reasons and

1t appront?

1ọ,. SAN PHOTOS OF LEE OSWALD ON TELEVISION

OBVIOUS PHOTOS SENT TO DALLAS VERI

'OF 22 NOV

AND IT

PHOTOS

WITH LEE OSWALD HELD

DALLAS, DATES ARE AS GIVEN ON

20

MEXI STATION REVIEWING ALL AVAILABLE PHOTOS PERSONS ENTERING

SOVIET AND CUBAN EMBASSIES®

30 MEXI SUGGESTING TO LITEMPO 2 THAT SILVIA DURAN WHO

MEXICAN ENPLOYEE AT CUBAN. EMBASSY AND WHO PUT LEE OSWALD. ON

TELEPHONE FROM CUBAN EMBASSY TO TALK TO SOVIET EMBASSY ON 28 SEPT

BE ARRESTED IMMEDIATELY AND HELD INCOMMUNICADO UNTIL SHE GIVES.

ALL DETAILS OF OSWALD KNOWN TO HER.

(SEE REF B)

4O LITEMPÓ 2 CAN SAY DOF.S. COVERAGE REVEALED

CALL TO HIM IF HE

NEEDS TO EXPALIN.

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW

CONDUCTED. ON 1 6 APR 1976

ELLAMPDET CL BY 01.2208

CS Comments:

*Photos sent from Mexico City were not those ot Lee Oswata

**Forwarded a review of LIENVOY (2) transcripts.

201-289248

0:2000.

-41

5,6

Document Number

27-20

23 7o0 63

- For FOlA. Review on APR 1976

8S 80PX

SECRET

REPRODUCTION. SY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

Copy No.

Approved for.Release

by the Central Intelligence Agency

Date: 2/2003

0000212

36857)

---

## Page 63

14-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

1 DIRECTOR

DOC. MICRO. SERT

DEC 4

1974

MICROFILMED

-SECRET

BOUTING

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEM PROGRAM

FROM & MEXICO

C

&S COPYI

RELEASE IN FULL

1999

ACTIONi

C/VH 5|WH AND OS NOTIFIED AND COPY. SLOTTEO T930 23 NOV BP)

INFO • DC!, D/DCI, DDP, ADDP

The follow'ar ratian 1s

Se 27 2322462

INMEDIATE DIR CITE MEXI 7033

autho: tred: 26202207370053116.7232

signed: L

SEC

•0. #I = Unit ELl'S

Note:

If dostruction, cito =

REF

SEXI 7025 (N.67178)*

reasong and coordinate

11 appropriate.

1. "FOLL ADDITIONAL CALLS LIENVOY PROBABLY REPEAT PROBABLY OSWALD;

.. FOL ABBREVIATIONS USED: MF-WOMAN OUTSIDE; HF-MAN OUTSIDE

• MD-WOMAN INSIDE; MD-MAN INSIDE.

A. ON 27 SEPTEMBER 63 CALL TO SOV MIL ATT

HOMBRE

LLAM NDO DICE QUE ES NECESARIO

SACER UNA

IR A ODESAO

HOMBRE DENTRO: QUE LLAME AL 15 60 55

PIDA AL CONSUL. HOMBRE

FUERA: PIDE LA DIRECCION. HOMBR

MRO:

SE LA PROPORCIONA. "

B. ON 27 SEPTEMBER 63

SOV CONSULATE 1605 HRS "ENTRADA.

ME DEL CONSULADO DE CUBA DICE QUE ESTA ALLI UN CIUDADANO AMERICANO

QUE FUE A SOLICITAR UNA VISA PARA CUBA EN TRANSITO PORQUE VA PARA

ELRZIMPDET CL BYRL22E0TD: FOIA Reviaw on

CONDUCTED ONI 6 APR 19761

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW

ument Number.

55

LA URSS Y ENTONCES QUIERE SABER CON QUIEN HABIA HABLADO PORQUE

ELLA LO MANDO CON ELLOS DE LA EMBAJADA RUSA

DICIENDOLE QUE SI ELLOS

LE HACIAN O ACEPTABAN LA VISA QUE ENTONCES ELLOS LOS CUSANOS TANBIEN

SE LA DABAN SIN MAS TRAMITES NADAMAS AVISANDO A. EMIGRACION EN CUBA Y

QUIERE_SABER CON QUIEN HABLO PORQUE EL DICE QUE NO SABE TAMPOCO CON

QUE PERSONS Y QUE LE DIJERON QUE SI QUE NO TENIA PROBLEMA.

D: 2072-5-41

546

G3 COPYL

201-287.248

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

Copy No.

0000213

37 0F 7

---

## Page 64

14-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

IN.67232

-PAGE 2

LE PIDE ESPERE UN MOMENTO. ME IS SILVIA DURAN DEL CONSULADO DE

- CUBA Y EXPLICA LO MISNO A OTRO HD.. ESTE LE DICE QUE LE DEJE SU

TELEFONO Y SU NOMBRE PARA QUE DESPUES LE LLAMEN, SILVIA SE LO

PROPORCIONA ASI CONO EL TELEFONO 11 28 A7, Y QUE APROVECHA CONO COSA

PERSONAL DE QUE ELLA SE CAMBIO DE DOMICILIO Y NO HA PODIDO AVISAR

PARA QUE LE ENVIEN, EL BOLETIN Y QUE AHORA SE LA PUEDE DARO HD

LE PIDE QUE LLAME A XOURKHARENKO

PARA QUE LE DE SU CAMBIO Y PIDE

LE DE EL NOMBRE DE LA CONSEJERO O AGREGADO CULTURALO SILVIA DICE

QUE SE LLAMA TERESA PROENZA Y LE LLAMAN AL 14 13. 260.

HD QUE GRACIAS. "

C. ON 27 SEPTEMBER 63 AT 1626 HRS OUT CALL FRON SOV EMB TO

11 28 47: "HD PREGUNTA A SILVIA QUE SI HA IDO ALLI ESE AMERICANO.

SILVIA QUE SI QUE. ALLI ESIA. HD QUE SEGUN LAS CARTAS QUE LES MOSTRO

17

DEL CONSULADO EN WASHINGION EL QUIERE IR A LA URSS PARA ALLA MUCHO

•TIEMPO CON SU ESPOSA QUE ES RUSA, PERO TODAVIA NO SE HA

DO

LA CONTESTACION DE WASHINGION RESPECTO A SU PROBLE

LÒS TRAMITES OCUPAN UNOS CUATRO O CINCO MESES

E

ESO SEGUN

IN

TENER ESE

•PERMISO DE LA URSS DEBEN DE PREGUNATAR

DESPACHAR AQUI EL VISADO SIN PREGI

ESTE SENOR LE MOSTRO UNA CART

IEN NO SE LE PUEDE

E A WASHINGION PERO SEGUN

QUE ES UN MIEMBRO DE UNA ORGANIZACION

EN FAVOR DE CUBA Y HA DICHO QUE ELLOS LOS CUBANOS NO PUEDEN

DARLE EL VISADO SIN EL VISADO RUSO Y AHORA HD NO.

SABE QUE HACER

CON EL, PORQUE DEBEN DE ESPERAR LA CONTESTACION DE WASHINGTON.

SILVIA QUE ELLOS TAMBIEN, PORQUE EL PROBLEMA DE EL, ES QUE EL NO

CONOCE A NADIE EN CUBA Y ENTONCES SI ES ASI ES MUY DIFICIL QUE

LE DEN LA VISA, PORQUE EL PENSABA IRAMITAR SU VISA, PORQUE COMO

EL YA SABIA QUE SE IBA A TARDAR MUCHO EN ESPERAR EL VISADO RUSO

00.

0000214

38$F 71

---

## Page 65

14-00000

CLASSITED MESSAGE

EN CUDA Y YA DE ALLA ARSE A LA UNSO, AD QUE LA COSA ES QUE SI SU

ESPOSA ESTA AMORITA EN MASHINGION PERO VA A RECIBIR AMORITA EL

VISADO. O EL PERMISO DE LA URES PARA REGRESAR A LA PATRIA,. ELLA VA

A RECIBIR SU VISADO EN WASHINGTON PERO TENIENDO ESE VISADO ELLA

PODRIAN COMUNICARIE A CUALQUIER LUGAR ESE PERMISO POR EJEMPLO AQUI

O EN CUALQUIER OTIA PARTE LO. PUEDE RECIBIR, PERO AMORITA NO LAS

TIENEN. SILVIA QUE CLARO Y QUE TAMPOCO SE LE PUEDE DAR UNA CARTA

PORQUE NO SABEN SI SU VISA SERA APROVADA. HD QUE ELLOS SOLO DARAN

EL VISADO SEGUN LAS INDICACIONES. SILVIA QUE ENTONCES ESO PONDRA

EN SU PLANILLA.

KD

QUE TAMPOCO NO SE LE CONOCE Y QUE PERDONE®

POR LA MOLESTIA. SILVIA QUE NO HAY CUIDADO Y QUE MUCHAS GRACIAS. "

D: ON 1 0EI 63 CALL AS 1031 HRS TO SOU MIL AIT IN BROKE

RUSSIAN:

"HELLO, I WAS AT YOUR'

PLACE LAST SATURDAY AND I TAL

FOUR

•CONSUL. THEY SAID THAT THEY'D SEND A TELEGRAM

NGTON

AND I WANTED TO ASK YOU IF THERE IS ANYTHIN

SOVIET:

"I'D LIKE TO ASK YOU SO CALL ANOTHERE

UMBER. "

MAN OUTSIDE:

"PLEASE." SOVIET: "PLEASE WRITE

N 15 64 55 AND ASK FOR A

CONSULA" MAN OUTSIDE: "THANK YOU." SOVIET: "PLEASE,"

E." ON 3 OCTOBER 63 CALL TO SOV MIL ATT: MAN OUTSIDE: SPEAKS

IN BROKEN SPANISH THEN IN ENGLISH TO SOVIET. "HELLO. VISA FOR

RUSSIA. "

SOVIET: "CALL ON THE OTHER PHONE." MAN OUTSIDE:

"I'M LOOKING FOR A VISA TO GO TO RUSSIA." SOVIET: "PLEASE, CALL

ON THE TELEPHONE OF THE CONSUL. " MAN OUTSIDE:

"OH, THE CONSUL, "

SOVIET: "THAT'S RIGHT, 15 50 55." MAN. OUISIDE: "ONE MOMENT PLEASE,

I'LL HAVE TO GET A FENCIL TO WRITE THE NUMBER DOWN. THEY. ISSUE

301-289218

0000215

390F71

---

## Page 66

14-00000

CLÄSSIFIED MESSAGE

.IN

0/237

• PAGE

THE VISA THERE?" SOVIET: "THAT DEPLIUS ON YOUR CONVERSATION.

I DON'T NOW ABOUT THIS BUSINESS. PLEASECALL THE OFFICE OF THE CONSUL

AND ASK YOUR QUESTION. " MAN OUTSIDE:. ASKS THE NUMBER OF THE

TELEPHONE AGAIN.

SOVIET: GIVES THE NUMBER TO HIM AND TELLS HIM

TO ASX FOR THE CONSUL OF THE SOVIET EMBASSY IN MEXICO, MAN OUISIDE:

"THANKS."

CS Corament:

*Forra-ded a review of LiENVOY (1) transcripts.

REPRODUCTION PROMBITED

0000216

400871

---

## Page 67

14-00000

UNCLASSIFIED

SUBJECT: (Optional)

FROM:

ACHON COPY

TO: (Officer designation, room nimber, and

building)

1.

SCOTT

INAL

ONLY

CONFK ITIAL

SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

CIA SPECIAL COLLECTIONS

RELEASE IN FULL

EXTENSION

NO.

MEX

7033

DATE

NOV 2 3 1963

DATE

OFFICER'S

FORWARDED

INITIATE

COMMENTS (Number eoch commoni lo show. from whom

to whom.

RECEIVED

NOV 2 3 1963

Diam a line across column offor ouch commoni.)

Dip.

55-516

2.

WHITE

NOV 23 1963

YREPRODUCTION

Dolpasture

I toil gack

com

10.

18.

13.

14.

15.

5002

610 USEDIRENOUS

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

P-8598

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

D

UNCLASSIFIED

0000217

Approved for Release

by the Central Intelligence Agency

Date: 2/2003.

"4Ü oF 71

---

## Page 68

14-00000

R: B. RIGGS

:XT.:.

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

DẠTE:

JISTR.:

COMMO

CHRONO (DUMMY)

DEFERRED

по пет.

ROUTINE

PRIORITY

OPERATIONAL

XX

IMMEDIATE

TO

IMMEDIATE DIR

INFO.

RYBAT

REF: MEXI 7025

23 NOVEMBER 1963

EEXSSIREATION

FILE:

P - 8593}

LIENVOY/Prod

NUMBEN

*''CIÃ HISTORICAL REVIE PROGRAM

INITIALS

RELEASE IN FULL

6 299916

138

-__MEXI

55-546

1. FOL ADDITIONAL CALLS LIENVOY PROBABLY REPEAT PROBABLY

OSWALD; FOL ABBREVIATIONS USED: ME - WOMAN OUTSIDE; HF -

MAN OUTSIDE: MO - WOMANINSIDE: NO HD- MAN ENSIDE

A. ON 27 SEPTEMBER 63 CALL TO SOV

T "ENTRADA.

HOMBRE LLAMANDO DICE QUE ES NECESAR

R UNA VISA PARA IR

A ODESA, HOMBRE DENTRO: QUE LI

CONSUL. HOMBRE FUERA:

PT

L15 60 55 Y QUE PIDA AL

DIRECCION. HOMBRE DENTRO:

SE LA PROPORCIONA.

B. ON 27 Sệ

EMBER 63 CALL TO SOV CONSULATE 1605 ,HRS

"ENTRADA. ME DEL CONSULADO DE CUBA DICE QUE ESTA ALLI UN

CIUDADANO AMERICANO QUE FUE A SOLICITAR UNA VISA PARA CUBA

EN TRANSITO PORQUE VA PARA LA URSS Y ENTONCES QUIERE SABER

CON QUIEN HABIA HABLADO PARQUE ELLA LO MANDO CON ELLOS DE

LA EMBAJADA RUSA DICIENDOLE QUE SI ELLOS LE HACIAN O ACEPTABAN

COORDINATING OFFICERS

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

LASSIFICATION

OUTGOING

RELEASING OFFICER

0000218

420811

---

## Page 69

14-00000

it!

RIG,:

iT.:

STR.:

Page Z.

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

CLASSIFICATION

INITIALO

DTG.

INITIALD

DATE:

FILE:

NUMBEN

TO

PRIORITY

OPERAMONAL

IMMEDIATE

INFO

CITE

2133

NUMBEN

LA VISA QUE ENTONCES ELLOS LOS CUBANOS TAMBIEN SE LA DABAN

SIN MAS TRAMITES NADAMAS AVISANDO A EMIGRACION EN CUBA Y

QUIERE SABER CON QUIEN HABLO PORQUE EL DICE QUE NO SÁBLE

TAMPOÇO CON QUE PERSONA Y QUE LE DIJERON QUE SI QUE NO TENIA.

• '*. :

PROBLEMA, HD LE PIDE ESPERE UN MOMENTO. ME ES SILVIA DURAN

DEL CONSULADO DE CUBA Y EXPLICA LO MISMO A S

ESTE LE

DICE QUE LE DEJE SU TELEFONO Y SU NOMBR

QUE DESPUES LE

LLAMEN. SILVIA SE LO PROPORCIONA

Y QUE APROVECHA COMO COSA

AMO EL TELEFONO I1 28 47,

ONAL DE QUE ELLA SE CAMBIO •

DE DOMICILIO Y NO HA

VISAR PARA QUE LE ENVIEN EL BOLETIN

7 QUE AHORA SE LA PUED

É DAR. HD LE PIDE QUE LLAME A KOUKHARENKO

PARA QUE LE DE SU CAMBIO Y PIDE LE DE EL NOMBRE DE LA CONSEJERO

O AGREGADO CULTURAL, SILVIA DICE QUE SE LLAMA TERESA PROENZA

Y LE LLAMAN AL 14 13 26.. HD QUE GRACIAS. "

C. ON 27 SEPTEMBER 63 AT 1626 HRS OUT CALL FROM SOV

EMB TO 11 28 47: "HD PREGUNTA A SILVIA QUE SI HA IDO ALLI ESE

AMERICANO. SILVIA QUE SI QUE ALLI ESTA, HD QUE SEGUN LAS CARIAS

COORDINATING OFFICERS

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

CLASSIFICATION

OUTGOING

RELEAsING OFFICER

0000219

430F71

---

## Page 70

14-00000

IRIS.=

ISTR.:

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

DATC:

Fage 3.

SECRETIS

CLASSIFICATION

FILE:

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

PRIORITY

OPERATIONAL

IMMEDIATE

INITIALS

DIG.

WUMBEN

INITIALS

:0

INFO.

CITE

1123

NUMBER

QUE LES MOSTRO DEL CONSULADO EN WASHINGTON EL QUIERE IR A LA

'URSS PARA ALLA MUCHO TIEMPO CON SU ESPOSA QUE ES RUSA, PERO

TODAVIA NO SE HA RECIBIDO LA CONTESTACION DE WASHINGTGN RESPECIO

A SU PROBLEMA, PERO ESO SEGUN LOS TRAMITES OCUPAN UNOS CUATRO.

O CINCO MESES PERO SIN TENER ESE PERMISO DE LA URSS DEBEN DE

PREGUNTAR Y MAS BIEN NO'SE LE PUEDE DESPACHA

SIN PREGUNTARLE A WASHINGTON PERO SEGUN

UI EL VISADO

NOR LE MOSTRO

UNA CARIA EN QUE ES

UN MEMBRO D

ANIZACION EN FAVOR

DE CUBA Y HA DICHO QUE ELLO

JBANOS NO PUEDEN DARLE EL

VISADO SIN EL VISADO

TORA HD NO SABE QUE HACER CON EL.

PORQUE DEBEN DE ESPERAR LA CONTESTACION DE WASHINGION. SILVIA

QUE ELLOS IAMBIEN, E PORQUE EL PROBLEMA DE EL, ES QUE EL NO

CONOCE A NADIE EN CUBA Y ENTONCES SI ES ASI ES MUY DIFICIL QUE

LE DEN LA VISA, PORQUE EL PENSABA TRAMITAR SU VISA, PORQUE

COMO EL YA SABIA QUE SE IBA A TARDAR MUCHO EN ESPERAR EL VISADO

RUSO EN CUBA Y YA DE ALLA IRSE A LA URSS. • HD QUE LA COSA ES QUE

SI SU ESPOSA ESTA AHORITA EN WASHINGTON PERO VA A RECIBIR AHORITA

COORDINATING OFFICERS

• AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

CLASSIMERTION

OUTGOING

RELEASING OFFICER

0000220

L40F71

---

## Page 71

14-00000

1u. 1521

(11)

RIG.!

T.:

STR.:

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

DATE:

Page 4.

Sorry

CLASSIFICATION

FILE:

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

PRIORITY

OPERATIONAL

IMMEDIATE

INITIALS

DIG.

INITIALO

NUMBER

INFO.

CITE

7038

EL VISADO O EL PERMISO DE LA URSS PARA REGRESAR A LA PATRIA,

.*':

ELLA VA A RECIBIR SU VISADO EN WASHINGTON PERO TENIENDO ESE

VISADO ELLA PODRIAN COMUNICARLE A SUAL QUIER LUGAR ESE PERMISO

POR EJEMPLO AQUI O EN CUALQUIER OTRA PARTE LO PUEDE RECIBIR,

PERO AHORITA NO LAS TIENEN. SILVIA QUE CLARO Y QUE TAMPOCO SE

LE PUEDE DAR UNA CARIA PORQUE NO SABEN SI SU VISA

APROVADA:

HD QUE ELLOS SOLO DARAN EL VISADO SEGUN PE

MERICACIONES.

SILVIA QUE ENTONCES ESO PONDRA FAT

PANILLA, HD QUE TAMPOCO

SE LE PUEDE DAR NINGUNA

RECOMMENDACION PORQUE NO

SE LE CONOCE Y QUE PERM

HE POR LA MOLESTIA. SILVIA QUE NO HAY

CUIDADO Y QUE MUCHAS GRACIAS."

1. ON.1 OCT 63 CALL AT 1031 HRS TO SO

Forg Distance

'IL ATT IN BROKEN'

RUSSIAN: "HELLO. "I WAS AT YOUR PLACE LAST SATURDAY AND I TALKED

TO YOUR CONSUL. THEY SAID THAT THEY'D SEND A TELEGRAM TO

WASHINGTON AND I WANTED TO ASK YOU IF THERE IS ANYTHING NEW?"

SOVIET: "I'D LIKE TO ASK YOU IO CALL ANOTHER PHONE NUMBER, "

MAN OUISIDE: '"PLEASE." SOVIET: "PLEASE WRITE IT DOWN 15 60 55

COORDINATING OFFICERS

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

CLASSIFICATION

OUTGOING

RELEASING OFFICER

0000221

45 55 71

---

## Page 72

14-00000

i!+)

JRIG.:

XT.:

ISTR.:

TO

Page 5.

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

CLASSIFICATION

DATE:

PRIORITY

OPERATIONAL

IMMEDIATE

INITIALY

DTO.

INITIAL!

FILE:

NUMBER

INFO.

CITE

7083

NUMDER

AND ASK FOR A CONSUL." MAN OUTSIDE: "THANK YOU." SOVIET:

"PLEASE,"

E. ON 3 OCIOBER 63 CALL TO SOV MIL ATT: MAN ÖUTSIDE:

SPEAKS IN BROKEN SPANISH THEN IN ENGLISH TO SOVIET. "HELLO.

VISA FOR RUSSIA.!' SOVIET: "CALL ON THE OTHER PHOÑE."

MAN_

OUTSIDE:

""''M LOOKING FOR A VISA TO GO TO RUSSIA."

"PLEASE, CALL ON THE TELEPHONE OF THE CONS

N OUTSIDE:

"OH, THE CONSUL, " SOVIET: "THAT'S RIG

60•55. " MAN OUTSIDE:

"ONE MOMENT PLEASE, I'LL HAVE

TO A PENCIL TO WRITE THE

NUMBER DOWN. THEY ISSI

PISA THERE?"' SOVIET: "THAT

DEPENDS ON YOUR CONVERSATION. I DON'T KNOW ABOUT THIS BUSINESS.

PLEASE CALL THE OFFICE OF THE CONSUL AND ASK YOUR QUESTION. "

MAN OUTSIDE: ASKS THE NUMBER OF THE TELEPHONE AGAIN, SOVIET:

GIVES THE NUMBER TO HIM AND TELLS HIM TO ASK FOR THE CONSUL

OF THE SOVIET EMBASSY IN MEXICO. MAN OUTSIDE: "THANKS."

END OF MSG

RER

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

COORDINATING OFFICERS

LASSIPICATIC

OUTGOING

YCI

ELEASING OFFICE

0000222

L4/ 0F 71

---

## Page 73

14-00000

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

RELEASE IN FULL

1999

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE!

the fraid ideo

DOC: VICRO. SER

: DIRECTOR

ROM : MEXICO CITY

ĐEC 4-1974

C3 COPS

MICROFILMED

•IFO

CTION. C/SR 5IMR BAGLEY SR MA AND OS NOTIFICO AND COPY SLOTTED SO SU NO

DEI, D/DGI, DDP, ADOP, C/CI, C/CI/OPS, C/FI, CARECORDS DEFICIE STAMP

The following action 15

authorized: Pier

бій 7 5 Т 2322557

IAMEL 'ATE DIR EITE NEXI 7834

Signed:

HED REDWOOD LOIMPROVE

R.0. #1 - U71+ CIOSS

REF DIR 87837, phae Envensatio

liote:

I...

1. MORNING 22 NOV LIENVOY REPORTING. SOVEMB NOR

cite

Inate

20. AT 1258 HRS 22 NOV CUBAN CONSUL ALFRE

TO SPEAK WITH SUSPECT KGB PAVEL ACTU

APPARENTLY. UNAVAILABLE AND HOOPE

DIAZ ASKED

YATSKOV.

LATTER

WITH

FOLL

CONVERSATION ENSUING IN FAMNLIAR FORM "TU":

• KOS:

FORGIVE ME. FOR ARRIVING LATE.

MIR: DID YOU RECOVER THE SUIICASE?

KOS: YES.

NIR: THEN IT WAS ARRIVING ON THE OTHER TRIP.

8.

KOS:

YES.

MIR: I CALLED IO TELL YOU THE FOLLOWING, THAT REGARDINE

THAT MATTER THAT WE HAD TALKED ABOUT, TO SEE IF WE WOULD SPEND EUM

IN CHAPULTEPEC PARK BECAUSE MY WIFE IS PREPARING SOME F0O0

EAT THERE.

E/SZIMPDET CL BY 612208

for FOlA Review ori

APR 1976

KOS: I'M SORRY BUT I'VE JUST WADE PLANS FOR ANOTHEA INT:

701-287248

I'D LEIVING THIS VERY DAY.

SO PLEASE FORGIVE ME FOR NOT DOING

0:200-8-14

33 GORY

200-5-41

1.109

÷5÷41

23N5063

NEIRODUCSON ST OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROTECT

470F71

0000223

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW.

CONDUCTED ON 1 6 APR

1976

68

Document Number.

---

## Page 74

14-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

IN- 67231

TO GO WITH YOU. CAT THIS FOINT HOSTINGS IN BAROR ADDAGOSLO E

AS AZQUE, AND MIR CORRECIS

HIS. COMMENT: . MIR REFLAGSO EUSCRI

AZCUE LOPEZ, FORMER CUBAN CONSULI.

KUS: MAVE YOU ALREADY TALKED WICH SAGO OLEG MANSINOY 061

NECHAPORENKO?

MIR: L'D LIKE TO TALK WITH PAVEL YATSKOV.

KOS: WAIT A MINUTE, HE'LL COME NOW,

MIR:

IF. HE'S BUSY I'LL CALL HIM LATER, BUT I'LL BE AVAILABLE

FOR THE NEXT HALF HOUR AT TEL NO 11 28 47.

KOS: 0K.

boats teams 005-171

•inta CEDA

0000224

480571

---

## Page 75

14-00000

NIG.:. R.L. EASBY

T

iTR.:

COMMO

CHRONO (DUMMY.)

"CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

• CLABFLEASE IN EULL

: 1900

DATE: 23 NOVEMBER 1963

FILE:

CLASSIFICATION

P-8593

INITIALS

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

OTG.

XX

PRIORITY

OPERATIONAL

IMMEDIATE

NUMBER

INITIALS

PRITY DIR

KA.POK

INFO.

DUP OF

CITE MEXI -NUMBER

7U36

59-23

i. COMPLETE RECHECK PHOTOS ALL VISITORS TO CUBAN EMB

AUGUST THRU FIRST HALF NOV AGAINST GOOD PRESS PHOTOS SHOWS

NO EVIDENCE OSWALD VISIT. SIMILAR BLANK AGAINST ALL SOVEMB

PHOTOS EROM I SEPT. NOTE ONLY VISIT WE KNOW HE MADE WAS CUBAN_

EMBASSY 28 SEPT, SATURDAY ON WHICH EMB CLOSED AJ

VE HAVE

NOT HAD COVERAGE

IN FUTURE WILL REQUIRE

HALF DAY

PHOTO COVERAGE BOTH SOY AND CUBANST 1B.

2. "CHECK MANIFESTS ALI

IS ARRIVING MEXI CENTRAL

AIRPORT FROM U.S. FAI

OSWALD ARRIVAL UNDER ANY LIKELY

VARIANT HIS NAME. PASSING THIS INFO GOM ASKING THEY CHECK

BORDER AIRPOTS FROM WHICH OSWALD MIGHT HAVE FLOWN MEXICO

CITY, WE DO NOI GET MANIFESTS THESE DOMESTIC FLIGHTS.

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

END OF MSG

RELEASE IN FULL

1999

COORDINATING OFFICERS

AUTHENTICATINO OFFICER

CLASSIFIENTION

OUTGOING

RELEASING OFFICER

0000225

19 OF 71

---

## Page 76

14-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

CHIG: JOHN M. WANTISH

(

12 G2

ROUTIN

EXT

5613

DATE: 24 HOUSER IS

D INDEX

D'NO INDEX

O FILE IN CS. FILE NO.

"70

• BRICICO CIUCY

AS COMM

F8OM: DIRECTOR

CONE: WH 8

NIC: DCI, D/OC1, DOP, ADDP, CI, CI/OPS, FI, SR. 7, SAS 8,

(3)

TO

5

Nov 24

13 3 2 263

RECOMBIE

SECT DEFERRED

ROUTINE

2, VR

CIA SPECIAL COLLECTIONSTE PIR

84920

RELEASE IN FULL

E A MAI A IS TAIC AND READING IE STAT

SILVIA DURAN, ONE

WHE

EE OSWALD WAS IN MEXICO CITY IN INTE

SEPTEMBER AND BARLE OCTOBER TO GET A SOVIET VISA AND A CUBAN TRANSIT VISA, DID HE

WAPT TO TRAVEL TO CUBA RICET THAT, ALONS, OR HAVE HIS WIFE JOIN HIM THERE AND THEN

LAYS PO CA, OR DIE FOR TO THE STATES FIST

THIN LEAVE LATE

ALKHOUGH IT APPEARS THAT HE HAS THEN THINKING ONLY ABQUAVOR

UL CHANGE OF

RESIDENCE DO THIS SOVISI UNION, IT IS ALSO POSSI

HE WAS GETTING DOCTMENTIEO

"TO HAKE A QUICK ESCAPE AFTER ASSASSIN

ISIDENT.

2:

PLEASE RESTODY YOUR LIENVOY

AND GIVE US YOUR OPINION, AND ALSO HAVE

EXICANS QUESTICN SILVIA

CAREFULLY ON THIS POINT.

ADVISE.

END OF MESSAGE

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW

CONDUCTED. ON G APR 1976

E/ARMPDET OLDY 0132.

Document. Number

for FOlA Review on

D: 200-5-41

-25

APR 1976

CS COPY

201-289248

2005-41

24 Now.63

THOAS H. KARAHESSINES

ADDP

RELEASING. OFFICER

25

COORDINATING OFFICERS

GROUP

are bed tom automath

desagrading and

Declassilication

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

.C/WH 3

AUTHENTICATIN

OFFICE

Approved for Release

by the Central Intelligence Agency

Date: 2/2003

000028

50 0F7!

---

## Page 77

14-00000

FOR 1303

11-57

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

RELEASE IN FULL

1999

DISTR:

ACTION:

INFO:

TO

DEFERREO

ROUTINE

IMMEDIATE MEXI

PRIORITY

OPERATIONAL

IMMEDIATE

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

DATE:

S CLASSIFICATION

INITIALS

DIG:

FILE:

INITIALS

2413327

Jre

INFO

24

NOV

63

INCOMING NUNBER

6702

CITE

10 AFTER ANALYZING ALL THE TRAFFIC AND READIN

STATEMENT OF

SILVIA DURAN, ONE IMPORTANT QUESTION

PUZZLES US- WHEN LEE

OSWALD WAS IN MEXICO CITY IN I

SAFEMBER AND EARLY OCTOBER TO

GET & SOVIET VISA AND A C

ANSIT VISA, DID HE WANT TO TRAVEL

TO CUBA RIGHT AWAY, ALONE OP HAVE HIS WIFE JOIN HIM THERE AND

THEN LEAVE FOR CUBA, OR DID HE PLAN TO RETURN TO THE STATES FIRST

AND THEN LEAVE LATER. ALTHOUGH IT APPEARS THAT HE WAS THEN THINKING

ONLY ABOUT À PEACEFUL CHANGE OF RESIDENCE TO THE SOVIET UNION,

IT IS ALSO POSSIBLE THAT HE WAS GETTING DOCUMENTED TO MAKE A QUICK

ESCAPE AFTER ASSASSINATING THE PRESIDENT®.

2. PLEASE RESTUDY YOUR LIENVOY MATERIAL AND GIVE US YOUR OPINION,

THIS POINT• ADVISE•

C. .

24/13107

Fle: 1-8553

CLASSIFICATION

INCOMING

0000227

---

## Page 78

14-00000

PORN

1301

SRIG.: R. L. EASBY

:XT.:

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

RELEASE IN FULL:

1999

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

DATE:

(44)

DISTR. COMMO

CHRONO (DUMMY)

DEFERRED

INITIALT

DYA.

ROUTINE

PRIORITY

OPERATIONAL

IMMEDIATE

NUNDEA

INITIALS

TO

IMMEDIATE DIR

INFO.

CLASSIFICATION

24 NOVEMBER 1963

SILE: 2-7976

P-8593

RYBAT

DIR:

A. MEXI 7046

B. DIR 84920

1. ADDITIONS OR AMENDMENIS REF

A. DURAN ARRESIED

OF FAMILY WHO HAVING PA

CITE MEXI

7054

DUP OF

NUMBER

84.565

PROHIBITED

SE. FAKEN TO HUSBA

WITH HUSBAND AND MEMBERS

B. SINCE SHE FAD

TOLD NOT ONLY HUSBAND BUT OTHER

MEMBERS OF FAMILY ABOUT OSWALD VISITS AFTER SHE READ NAME

AND SAW TV. PICTURE, SHE ALIRIBUTED ARREST TO DENUNCIATION BY

COUSIN WHOM DOES NOT LIKE. THUS SOURCE GOM KNOWLEDGE NOT

REVEALED TO HER.

C. DOES NOT KNOW WHERE OSWLAD STAYED IN MEXI.

D. PASSPORT OSWALD SHOWED HER WAS STILL VALID FOR

USSR. HE TOLD HER WISHED RETURN THERE PERMANENTLY WITH WIFE.

E. DURAN HAD IMPRESSION OSWAID HAD OR BELIEVED HE

HAD MADE ARRANGEMENTS IN WASHINGTON WHEREBY INSTRUCTIONS

WOULD BE SENT SON ME NISE FEET MIS IN MANNERE

AUT ¡ENTICATING OFFICER

CLASSIFICATION

OUTGOING

RELEASING OFFICER

0000228

520F71

---

## Page 79

14-00000

TORY

ORIG.:

:XT.:

DISTR.:

(44)

TO

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

•DATE:

FILE:

LASSIFICATIO

Page 2.

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

PRIORITY

OPERATIONAL

IMMEDIATE

INITIALD

DIO.

NUMBER

INITIALO

INFO.

CITE

7054

NUMBER

BY WHICH WOULD NOT. HIMSELE HAVE TO VISIT SOVEMB. FAILURE HIS

REAL OR IMAGINED INSIRUCTIONS WORK SMOOTHLY CAUSED HIM.

BECOME RUDE TO SOVIETS. (COMMENT: PARA IC O

933

PARTIALLY BEARS THIS OUT BUT STATION DEA

O SIGNS RUDENESS

IN OSWALDS TALKS WITH SOVS. FUR

MAY REVEAL OSWALD BECAL

TAILS DURAN INTERROGATION

GIVE IN CUBAN EMB AS RESULT HIS

FRUSTRATION BY SOVS.)

F. HER IMPRESSION HE SIMPLY "COMRADE" WHO COULD

NOT LIVE COMFORTABLY UNDER RIGORS OF CAPITALISM AND WISHED

RETURN TO SPIRITUAL HOME IN USSR

G. DURAN KNOWS NOT WHETHER HE GOT USSR VISA OR CUBAN

TRANSIT VISA BUT IF HE DID SHE HAD NO PART IN IT.

H. IF OSWALD TALKED ANYONE ELSE IN CUBAN EMBASSY

SHE UNAWARE.

2. REF DIR 8-1916 (IN 6687). ECHEVERRIA AWARE ODYOKE CONCERN

RE LEAK AND HAS WARNED HER ABOUT TALKING, BUT FEELS AI LEAST

FACT OF ARREST MAY WELL

COORDINATING OFFICERS

ROINETING OFFICERS OTHER RELATINES DICKED

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

CLASBIFICATION

OUTGOING

RELEASING OFFICER

0000229

530F7}

---

## Page 80

14-00000

3R37 1304

(

(14)

ORIG.:

EXT.:

DISTR.:

TO

CLASSIFED MESSAGE

DATE:

FILE:

Page 3.

ASSIMICHO

DEFERRED

POUTINE

INITIALT

PRIORITY

OPERATIONAL

IMMEDIATE

DIO.

NUMBER

INITIALS

INFO.

CITE

7054

UP SAME TIME. COS WILL, CONTINUE PUSH NEED FOR SECRECY WITH

ECHEVERRIA. DURAN AND HUSBAND WILL BE RELEASED BUT KEPT

UNDER CLOSE SURVEILLANCE.

3. RE REF B. WITH MEXI 7933 HQ HAS FUI

PERTINENT CALLS. REGRET COMPLETORE

THIS PERIOD ALREADY ERASER gET

BEST ANSWER OBTAIN

BORIPTS ALL

ECK SHOWS TAPES FOR

TEN FEELING THAT ABOVE IS

KEF B BUT WILL REQUEST REINTERROGATION

DURAN IF HQ STILL DESIRES.

END OF MSG

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

COORDINATING OFFICERS

PeRT

ASSIFICATIC

OUTGOING

0000230

RELEASING OFFIEER

540F71

---

## Page 81

14-00000

ROUTING

4 |

51

161

i DIRECTOR

DOCLMICRO. SER

FROM

• MEXICO CITY

DEC4

1974

ACTIONI SEWA

MICROFILMED

• INFO

DEL, D/DCI, DDP, ADDP, C/CI, C/FI 2, C/SR 5, C/SAS. 5, D/OS

XXX

RECORDS OFFICER SIAHP

get pot: 24118377

SHe 101100175 St107 18

IMMEDIATE DIR CITE

author!ded:

MEXI 7054

bEST IMMEDIATE

stened: Ps. Marn

.,KR

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW

CONQUCTED ON 6 APR 1976

ELSSUMPDEY CL DY 012208

BED 2T8 7378

REF MEXI 7046 (/N 67278)*

R.0.#1 - U91S CIURS

*DIR 84920**

Note:

If doctruction,

cite.

reasons and coordinate

ADDITIONS OR AMENDMENTS RES A:. 11 appropriato.

18.-

A BUHAN ARRESTED AT HOME WITH HUSBAND AND MEMBERS Of TANLY UHO

"HAVING PARTY, ALL TAXEN IO JAIL.

'B. SINCE SHE HAD. TOLD NOT ONLY HUSBAND BÜT OTHER MEMBERS OF FAMILY

ABOUT JOSVALO VISITS AFTER SHE READ NAME AND SAN TY PICTURE,. SHE AITRIBUTED

ARREST TO DENUNGIAZION BY COUSIN WHOM DOES NOT LIXE. THUS BOUCH

KNOWLEDGE NOT REVEALED TO HER.

lumber

C. DOES NOT KNOW WHERE OSWALD STAYED IN M

FOIA Review on

-565

APR 1976

D. PASSPORT OSWALD SHOWED HER WAS

HER WISHED RETURN THERE. PERMANENT

E. DURAN HAD INPRESSION

MENTS IN WASHINGION WHEREBY

VALID FOR USSR. HE TOLD

IF E®

201-289248

HAD OR BELIEVED HE HAD MADE ARRANGE-S

STRUCTIONS WOULD BE SENT SOVEMB MEXI TO

ISSUE SOV ENTRY VISA IN MANNER BY WHICH WOULD NOT HIMSELF. HAVE TO VISIT

SOVEMB. FAILURE HIS REAL OR IMAGINED INSTRUCTIONS WORK SMOOTHLY CAUSED

FOIA Review

HIM BECOME RUDE TO SOVIETS. & COMMENT: PARA IC OF MEXI 7933 PARTIALLY

BEARS THIS OUT BUT STATION DETECTS NO SIGNS RUDENESS IN OSWALDS TALKS

1: 200-5=41

6201-07.427280 UCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

2YNou63

factuded four

•t39e

Copy No.

Document Number

0000231

55 0F7!

---

## Page 82

14-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

TO

FROM

ACTION &

NFO "

• DIRECTOR

ROUTING

5

181

WITH SOVS. FURTHER DETAILS DURAN INTERROGATION MAY REVEALE

•WALD

BECAME ABUSIVE, IN CUBAN EMB: AS RESÜLT HIS FRUSTRATION

F. HER IMPRESSION. HE SIMPLY "COMRADE" WHOE

OT LIVE COMFORT-

ABLY UNDER RIGORS. OF CAPITALISM AND WISHE

USSR.

SEURN

TO SPIRITUAL HOME IN

G. DURAN KNOWS NOT WHE

GOT USSR VISA OR CUBAN TRANSIT VISA

BUT IF HE DID SHE HAD NO PART®

H. IF OSWALD TALKED ANYONE ELSE IN CUBAN EMBASSY SHE UNAWARE.

1

2.. REF DIR 84916. ECHEVERRIA AWARE ODYOKE CONCERN RE LEAK AND HAS

WARNED HER ABOUT TALKING, BUT FEELS AT LEAST FACT OF ARREST MAY WELL

BE LEAKED BY OTHER RELATIVES PICKED UP SAME TIME. COS WILL CONTINUE

PUSH NEED FOR SECRECY WITH ECHEVERRIA. DURAN AND HUSBAND WILL BE

RELEASED BUT KEPT UNDER CLOSE SURVEILLANCE

3. RE REF B. WITH MEXI 7933 HQ HAS FULL TRANSCRIPTS. ALL PERTINENT

PALLS. REGRET COMPLETE RECHECK SHOWS TAPES FOR THIS PERIOD ALREADY

:RASED. STATION FEELING. THAT ABOVE IS BEST ANSWER OBTAINABLE TO:

DEF B. BUT WILL REQUEST REINTERROGATION DURAN IF HQ STILL DESIRES.

C/S COMMENI: *Echeverria told COS Diran completely cooperative and far:

written statement attesting to two visits ly Oswald,

**Did Oswald want to travoi to Cuba rigt awar, alore, u:.

•his nife join him there and then leave ior Gula, or did je pla: lo reup to :.

Mesi ind then leave later?

0000232

J560F21

REPRODUCTION iSI OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PRUHIUITEU

Copy N.

---

## Page 83

14-00000

C UNCLASSLFIED

RHAL

ONLY

ROUTING AND RECORD

CONF

SHEET

NTIAL

SECRET

SUBJECT: (Oplionel)

FROM:

ACTION COPY

TO:

(Omeor designation, room numbor, and

building)

DATE

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

RECEIVZO

FORWARDED

NO.

DATE

Medi

705J.

NOV 2 5. 1963

COMMENTS (Number doch comment lo

how from who

so whom.

Preme a line ocross column ofter ooch comment.

3.

SüUTT..

WHITE

NOY 2 5 1963

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

RELEASE IN FULL

1999

Phillips

DUP

PROHIRS

SOUGHEN

2 5 1963

OF

-33

7.

8.

10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

FORIA

3-62

610 USE PREVOUS

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

D

INTERMAL

USE ONLY

• UNCLASSIFIED

0000233

570F71

---

## Page 84

14-00000

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

RELEASE IN FULL

1999

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

POUTING

TO

• 8 DIRECTOR

BS 02771

FROM • MEXICO CITY

ACRON, C/WH 5 (WH COPY ISSUED 1300 25 NOV/OJ)

INFO...!

D/S. 5, 0, 0502, A

DDP, ADDP, C/500: 4, C/CA 2, C/CA/0 2, c/CI, C/FI.2, C/SR 5,

IMMEDIATE DIR

- 25/17217

CITE MEXI 70551

25 Now 63 IN6 7 6.20

1. MEXI DAILY "EXCELSIOR" OF 25 NOV IMPLYING OWN INVESTICATIONS RAN

STORY DESCRIBING OSWALD TRIP TO MEXICO 26 SEPT THRU 3: UCT. CROSSED

BROADER AT LAREDO. VISITED CUBAN EMBASSY 27 SEPT AND NEXI

•DAY WENT TO

SOVIET EMBASSY. PURPOSE ALLEGEDLY WAS TO OBTAIN V

IET UNION. THIS

NOT OUR LEAK. CANNOT ELIMINATE GOBER

SOURCE.

2. FYI: PRESUME HQS IS AWA

TORY DATELINED HAVA 7 SEPI

1963. AT RECEPTION AT BRA

EMBASSY FIDEL CASTRO IS QUOTED: " WE

ARE PREPARED TO FIGHT THEM AND: ANSWER IN KIND. UNITED STATES LEADERS

SHOLLD THINK (REFLECT?) THAT IF THEY ARE AIDING TERRORIST PLANS IO

ELIMINATE THE CUSAN LEADERS, THEY THEMSELVES WILL NOT BE SAFE."

3. PARA ONE STORY WENT ROLEROS OICERSAAN

1o 01101 0 SENSITIZE

authorized:

Signed:

? Harter

CLASSIFICATION RSVIEW

CONDUCTED ON1 6 APR 1976

E/RAMPDET CL BY 012208

R.0. 51 - Unit C//R+A

201-289248

Di 200-5=4

Note:

If dastruction, cite

Document Number 39-33

reasong-and coordinate

# appropriate.

for FOlA Review on

APR 1976

25 Nau63-

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

Copy No.

0000234

58.0F.71

---

## Page 85

14-00000

' UNCLASSIFIED

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

RELEASE IN FULL

1999

DY ERNAL

ONLY

D

CONFY "NTIAL"

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT: (Optionol)

FROM:

ACTION COPY

TO:

(Officer dosignation, room number, and

building)

Philips

DATE

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

RECEIVED

FORWARDED

25.1096 N

2 5 1533

SECRET

NO.

WAVE 8149-6710

DATE

NOV 2 5 1963

COMMENTS (Numbor soch

comment lo show from whom

Draw a line ocress column oftor ouch commeni.)

THIS CALL WAS

HERAD BY LOTS OF

people.

B.

10.

18.

12.

13.

14.

15.

FORM

3-57.

SCOTT

WHITE

DUP

NOR SEE PRODUCTION PROHIBI

573

- FILES?

PERNARS WORTN

MENTIONIN

AT STAFF

MEETING. - TO SNOW

NOW INSECURE

INTEAHATANIL GILLS

ARE,

610 USE RENOUS

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

0000235

U

UNCLASSIFIED

590F71

---

## Page 86

14-00000

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

RELEASE IN FULL

1999

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECDET

ROUTING

5

& DIRECTOR

FROM

& UNWAVE

ACTION: SAS 8

NFO I DOP, CL, GI/O35, FL, FI/INT, WH 7, VR

9 56 7 2 9 2522217

DIR INFO MEXI CITE WAVE 8149

TYPIC

25 lu63 IN67731

•ODFOA!: ADVISED WAVE THAT PHONE CALL FROM ONE JOSE SAN ANTONIO

CABACA IN MEXICO CITY (PHONE 186334) TO DR. EMILIO NUNEZ PONIUONDO,

MIAMI, WAS MONITORED 24 NOVEMBER 63. CONVERSATION WAS I

NISH

AVD GIST. OF IT IS:' PLAN OF CASTRO CARRIED FORWARD I

IS NEXT.

SOON THE ATOMIC BOMBS WILL RAIN AND

THEY W

A NOT

SHOW FROM WHERE.

2.

WAVE TRACES NUNEZ REVEALS HE

1221-312364.

NO RECORD CASACA.: HOWEVER,

ISED CABACA IS FROBABLY JOSE

ANTONIO CABARGA SAINZ, DPOS

1918 PROVINCE LAS VILLAS, CUSA:

CURRENTLY RESIDES MEXICO CITY, PO BOX 3009 AND HAS SAVE PHONE

NO. PARA 1 ABOVE. HE IS NOW OCCUPIED WITH OSTAINING MEXICAN VISAS

FOR PERSONS DESIRING LEAVE CUSA: HE IS PRONDUNCED BATISTIANO

AND PIGHTIST WITH TIES TO BATISTA GROUPS IN U.S. AND HEADS THE

ALIANZA PAPA EL PROGRESS DE AMERICA.

CLASSIFICATION. REVIEW

CONDUCTED ON 6 APR 1976

3.

LOCAL CO FDAY

SEING

INFORMED RE PAPA 2 INFO.

ELSAMPDET CL BY 0/2208

Document Number 101-573

for FOlA Review on

_; APR 1976

++1281-289248

0000236

-Rit: Rein

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN TRE ISSUING ORACES POKERITOS

600F71

---

## Page 87

14-00000

D-UNCLASSIFIED

D

TERNAL

•JE ONLY

COM

TENTIAL

SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT: (Optional)

FROM:

ACTION COPY

EXTENSION

NO.

200.7

DATE

BUY 1

TO:

(Offee designation, room number, and .

building)

DATE

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

RECEIVED

I FORWARDED

COMMENTS (Number ouch comment lo show from mhora

to whom, • Drem a line deross column after doch commeni.)

SCOTF

3.

NOT 2 5 1963

WHITE

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

RELEASE IN FULL

1999

REPREDUCTION PROMBITED

10.

18.

Phillips

12.

13.

14.

15.

0000237

610 USEDPRONO

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

61 0F71

---

## Page 88

14-00000

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

RELEASE IN FULL.

CLASSIFIED MESSAG

"SECRET

• DIRECTOR

83 .000V

3

ROM " MEXICO CITY

ICTION, C/WH 5 (WH NOTIFIED AND COPY SLOTTED 1430 26. NOV/LMG)

NFO • DEI, D/D61, DDP, ADDP, C/61, C/FI 2, G/SAS 5, VR, D/OS 2, C/SR 5

507572618387

IMMEDIATE MANA INFO IMMEDIATE DIR

CITE MEXI 7067

ROUTING

ZENov 63 IN 68291

1. AT THIS MOMENT STATION OFFICER. AND LOCAL

SECURITT-OFFICER

• ARE INTERVIEWING NICARAGUAN WHO CLAIMS THAT ON

18 SEPTEMBER

HE

SAW

LEE OSWALD RECEIVE SIX THOUSAND FIVE HUNDRED DOLLARS IN

INSIDE CUBAN EMBASSY MEXI•

20 REQUEST MANA AND DIR ADVISE NEXI ON

TRACES GILBERTO

ALVARADO, BORN 31 JAN 1940 CIUDAD

CLAYA, NICARAGUA. CLAIMS

HE AWAITING FALSE MEXICAN DOCUM

LETPON PRIOR RECEIVING SABOTAGE

TRAINING CUBA. SAYS JUAN LORILLO, ROLAN ALVARADO AND CARLOS

FONSECA APADOR ARE MEMBERS HIS & COMMUNIST?) GANIZATION

NICARAGUA.

SECRET

Document Number

124-54

for FOlA Review on APR 1976

1: 200-5..41

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW

CONDUGTED D: 24 MAY 1976

IMPDET CL BY 0 12285

RECORDS OFFICER STAMP

The following action is

authorized: DE SENSITIZE

Stened: _l:

Start

R.0. #1 - Unit

CIRKA

Hote:

II destruction,

UUUv238

reappose 01-2.89248

11 appropriate,

AS COPY,

2096541

2622006}

introdol tro

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

Copy No.

L20F 21

---

## Page 89

14-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGRI

12.02

ROWING

UNt;

IX1

DATE

JOLLA M. WILTIM

C/v11/3

5623

• 9 DECEMBER 1903

Listy

D INDIY

D NO INUX

CJ FILE IN CS MILF: NO.

8 DEC 63

1817z

TO

MAICO CITY

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF: C./WH 4

SIG CEN

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

INFO: D'1, 0/DCI, DDP, 6/C1, 6/01/21, VP.

TO

MEXI

INFO

RYBAL GPFLOOR

REF:

MEXI. 7241 (IN 73638) *

CITE DIR

87770

CIA SPECIAL COLLECTIONS

RELEASE IN FULL

PIS DO NOT ERASE ANY SOVIET OR CURAN TAPES UNTIL. FURTHER NOLICE.

ADVISE HOW MUCH MORE TAPE YOU NEID

END OF MESSAGE

DOC. MICRO. SER.

DEC 4 1974

MICROFILMED

C/S Comment:*Station to erase routine tapes Soviet Embassy, keep-

ing normal two-week lag.

RECORD'S

Rins

17/107

PILS

Piat

PAST PECCEN

The

REPRODUCTION:

R.O. F.

Note:

assis li

-Hart

CS COPY

If tur

-a67,ilt0

reasons and coordinate

If appropriato.

201-289248

D-200-5-41

By Direction of

RICHARD FERNS,

DDP

RELEASINO OFFICER

Document Number =

354=719

MAY 1976

for FOlA Review on

COORDINATING OFFICERS

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW

CONDUCTED ON. 24 MAY 1978

- IMPDET 01. BY 11. 3201

GROUP

i cube ding com

'automalic

AUTHENTICATIN

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

Copy

Approved for Release

by the Central Intelligence Agency

Date:

2/2003

0000220

63 0F 71

---

## Page 90

14-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

ORIG

UNIT

EXT:

DATE:

J.

м.

WHITTEN: Ca/

C/WH/3

D INÚEX:

5613

D NO INDEX

4 MAY 1964

I FILE IN CS FILE NO.

12-62

ROUTING

5

4Plax 501 621,

432-

TO

MEXICO CITY

FROM:

• DIRECTOR

lil

SIG CEM

C/WH. 4

1A00

INFO *

DEFERRED

BE ROUTINE

DCP, D/DCI, DDP, C/CI, C/C1/SI, C/CLARA, VR

CIA SPECIAL COLLEOTIONS

MEXI

INFO:

RELEASE IN FUEDR

GPFLOOR

1 8627

WARREN COINISSION REQUESTS WE FURNISH FOLLOWING INFO:

12075582625021

HOURS. WHEN CUBAN AND SOVIET ENBASSIES AND

CONSULATES IN MEXICO CITY ARE OPEN TO PUBLIC:

THEIR

NORMAL WORKING HOURS.

THEIE PROCEDURES o

FORMAL AND INFORMAL INVOLVED IN L

ULATIONS,

PERMITS FOR

TRAVEL TO AND THROUGH CUBA

B. DESCRIPTION OF

MEXICAN GOVER

AND REGULATIONS OF

E TRAVEL OF PBPEIME CITIZENS

TO AND THROUGE CUBA.

REQUEST MEXI CABLE SUMMARY OF ALL THAT CAN BE ASCEETAINED

ELECORDS OFFICER STABIP

ON ABOVE

1:0 following

action. 1s

authorized: DE SENSITIZE

END OF MESSAGE

1.0.H1 - Unit

¡oto:

I? descructice,

cite

reasons and coordinate

11 appropriato.

Document Number

677-289

for FOlA Review on

JUN 1976

Copy to C1/R4A

201-289248

0000240

- RATORD

HERBERT

AC/H

CS COPY

COORDINATING OFFICERS

JOHN M.

C/WH/3

WHITTEN

OFFICER

CrOUp,

Encluded from alamatic

comperating and

piclassification

AUTHENTICATING

OFFICER

D- 200-5-APODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy No.

Approved for Release

by the Central Intelligence Agency

Date: 2/20.05

640F71

---

## Page 91

14-00000

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

RELEASE IN FULL

1999

_SECRET

ROUTING

TO

: DIRECTOR

FROM &

MEXICO CITY

ACTION:

C/:8 4

INFO ""

DCI, D/DCI, DDP, C/CI, Crapsus articer

authen

Signed:

DIR CITE MEXI 9332

6 • Hartu

A AT GPFLOOR

2.0. 12 - vas C//R+A

Note:-

It destruction, oite

REF DIR 18827÷

reasons and coordinate

1. SOVIET EMB AND CONSULATE ARE

LATE ARL NOT OPEN FO PUBLIC. OFFICES

ARE IN COMPOUND ACCESSIBLE TO PUBLIC ZY APPOINTVENI.

OVIET

GUARDS

ARE ON OUTSIDE GATE AROUND CLOCK. NORMAL WORK H

WERE B9DD TO 1800 BUT RECENTLY CHANGED 0906

1963

MONDAY AND

FRIDAYS. SIXIEEN SOVIET FAMILIES LIY

BELL AT GATE AT ALL HOURS.

RUS

OTHERS USUALLY TURNED AWAY

KNOWN TO ISSUE PERMITS:

COMPOUND.

VISITORS RING

LAKERS CAN GET IN ANYTIME.

AFTER HOURS: SOVIETS ARE NOT

TRAVEL CUBA.

2.

CUBAN EMB. AND CONSULATE IN SANE COMPOUND BUT HAVE SEPARATE

ENTRANCES:

CONSULATE RECEIVES VISITORS FROM 1068 TO 1400 HOURS

MONDAY THROUCH FRIDAY. EMBASSY WORKING HOURS ARE FROM @9DE TO 170%

HOURS SANE DAYS BUT MOSI EMBASSY VISITORS USUALLY ATTENDED BEFORE

1402 HOURS. THESE HOURS ALSO APPLIED DURING SEPT 63.

201-289748

J. CUBAN EMB PROCEDURES AND REGULATIONS FOR ISSUING PERMITS

FOR TRAVEL TO AND THROUGH CUBA: VISAS NORMALLY VALID FOR THREE

MONTHS FROM DATE OF ISSUESO PRIOR AUTHORIZATION FROM HABANA INVARIABLY

Document Number 68.3220

for FÜlA Review ơn JUN 1975

L-<00-5-41

-SECRET

REPRODUCTION. BY OTHER-THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

ladded tour

Copy No.

0000241

650F71

---

## Page 92

14-00000

See Sanitized Filo

G.

-29

CATE MESSAGE I OL

SECRET

IN 725 2Z PAGE 2

REQUIRED, BEFORE ISSUANCE ANY VISA. APPLICANT COMPLETES VISA

APPLICATION FORM AT CONSULATE, PERMISSION OFTEN OBTAINED

IN EXCHANGE OF CABLES BETWEEN EMBASSY AND MINREX HABANA. IN MANY

CASES VISAS ISSUED ON SEPARATE SEET PAPER IN EFFORT CONCEAL FACT

OF TRAVEL.

4* MEXICAN GOVT PROCEDURES AND REGULATIONS RE TRAVEL PBPRIME

CITIZENS TO AND THROUGH CUBA UNCHANGED. SINCE HAMA 20887 DATED 3 MAY

1

1963. PBPRIME CITIZENS WITH PASSPORTS AND CUBAN VISAS ARE FREE TO

TRAVEL TO CUBA. PBPRIME CITIZENS CAN OSTAIN TOURIST CARDS

CROM

MEXICAN CONSUL HAVANA FOR RETURN VIA MEXICO.

C/S Comment: #Warzes Commission requeste

and Soviet Embassies and Consulates in Mexa

working jours; tceir procedures and res

issuing permits lor travel to and thro

K furnish hours when Cubas

are open to public;

their normal

formal

and intornal levolted in

S22544414:

0000242

SECRET

660f71

---

## Page 93

14-00000

Inside Washington

тАть

210et 64

CIA Withheld Vital Intelligence From Wars

By ROBERT. S.. ALLEN.

•cials who actively oppose

on has yet

to

be

used

dismissal of such persons

liguid

And PAUL SCOTT

•Soviet

policies

against

any

high West-

from public office

at oth.

form.

Tb

. Titled

*Soviet Strategic

ern

official, hundreds of

er times

having

• within se

WASHINGTON, Oct. 20.

Executive

Action,

the

KGB agents

covertly op-

them' 'eliminated

physi

autopsy.

-The Central Intelli-

suppressed

CIA

docu-

erating outside of Russia

cally

its

use

gence

Agency

withheld

ment went into the shock-

have

been

supplied

with

"Such

activities

infor

are

poisons ba

vilal

intelligence

ing details of how agents.

this

pocket-size,

bun,

known to be

undertaken

ed which

mation from

the Warren

of KGB, the Soviet secret

awaiting

only

orders

against other types

Commission during its in-

police,

until

are trained to do

from Moscow to

of

fect

use it.

persons in the West, not-. -after bein;

vestigation

of

the

isSas

away

with

Western lead-

The

Murder

Weapons

ably

defectors from the

thus allow

sination.

f Presiden

ers, including officials in

HIGHLIGHTS

of

the

U.S.S.R.

and. from

other

to

be far 1

Kennedy.

the

U.S.

and to

make

suppressed

intelligence

countries

Despite

of

the

Soviet

when

his

the commis:

their deaths appear

due

estimate,

which is locked

sion's written request for:

in a security area within

bloc.

recently reported

"A

kno

to: natural causes

source

all documents that might

One of the KGB's new.

the

tightly-guarded CIA

sation technique is

ha

pneumatica

shed light

on the assas

ly

devised.

follows:

sination,

assassination

ade

as

Locute an individ-

poison

ice

CIA authorities

wapons is "a: pnumati-

"It

has

been

repol

Juring

him

to

which

lear

failed to turn over a na-

cally. operated poison ice. that the

KGB

telephone, connect-

or other

tional

intelligence

estio

"atomizer,". which

warning

that it

is

• по-

leaves

to removes the

to a high-voltage wire,

_cause of d

wound or: other ev

Soviet interes

during a thunderstorm

Congress

Kremlin policy to remove

dence of the cause at-

certain faml

"Another

involves

the

gators

from

wh

public

sassination

office by

death."

Some

use

of

pistol

which

• that

the r

Western offi-

While this deadly weap

time

projects a poison gas in : committee

Betw

Docume

OTHER

gence

• du

bioue.of

co-exe

istence

ress that:

the - Warren

Commis

sion's

rangs might

have-

tbis". CIA

been estimate.

different

and

other.

doerments

•sup

pressed by the 'State De

partment had been avail

able for study.

out that

the State Debat, eat

suppressed evidence link

ing

Oswald with one

• ot

its

employea...wbo

^c.

cording to security. files,

"presented

strong pro-

Soviet views

.on

every

question that came

• In

up

the Department's

U.S.S.R.

country commit.

tee"

while

he was

member

This State Department

official's

ap

peared

tbe

address

book of a suspected .so

viet

agent

who

arrived

1n

the

US. in

1943,

thesing to- governent

Congressional investi

gators

also have • been

shocked to discover that

ACAT

assassination

Shown baradministration

ofticrals to Speaker John

McCormack (Mass.),

next

m. line to succeed Presi

dent Johnson

While

FBI officials

warned

•Speaker McCor

mack,

_ a

dedicated

anti

Comminist,

that he is on

the list of Western

offi

rials feared by the Krem

no

CIA

authority

nas shown the No. 2 man

in government

the " CIA

report

listing

these.

•cret

methods.

Soviet assassination

instead,

Mc C o rmack

Jearned about the report

only

recently

from

con

gressional

probers

who

are trymg

to - determine

why

the

document

• has

been suppressed.

The investigators

also

are trying

determine

why the CIA in its

assassination

report

to

the State Department on

Oswald's trip

to Mexico

•City gave details only

of

the defector's visit to

the

Russian embassy

and

not

the

Cuban embassy.

CIA did

not

report

The

the

latter

visit

after

Kennedy's

assassmation

• in Dallas,

p. 8593

The caller foon the

Cuban Smart

851 Стра

0000243

6755.71

---

## Page 94

14-00000

0000244

Inside Washington

CIA Withheld Vital Intelligence From War ren Commission

By RODENT S. ALLEN

cials who actively oppose

And PAUL SCOTT

"Soviet

policics.

og hat yet time

against

used

dismissal of

or

compressed

for

security

reasons

Tiled "Sovlet Stralegic

Executive

Actlon,"

the

ost cal, hundreds

cst

The

fatal

port

CIA

MANNIES

made

по

WASHINGTON, Oct. 20.

agents

covertly

John

McCone

autopsy would not revcal

mention of this explosive

-The

Central

Intelli-

suppressed

CIA

them'

doct.

outside of

usc.

Non-trace a ble

document

WEARINEE

ment tent indo the shock

slave

vital

intelligence

infor.

Such

sre: polsons have been report.

ICMIONT

100345

to De

Iroin

Werren

•I KGB, the Soviet secret

awaiting

• ARE WE

take фд.

Warren Commission.

tagainst

Commission

during ils in-

police,

are trained to

in the weren

;fect

untll several

While McCone furnish-

being administered,

Jead-

ed the commission with

HESLELHION

CaN 20901:

sination

of

75505-

President

ers.

including

Murder

the scene

Kennedy.

Despite

the

commis-

U.S.

to

make • suppressed

intelligenc

Soviet

• estimate,

securky

is locke

when

edge alie

sion's wrilten request for

caus

in a

area

e recently.

One of the HGB's new.

reported

has

described

al dochnicals that misal

PICt

tignly -guarded

MOLO ROCHEILES

light

the

a5515-

devised

assassination

25

101194.49

press tically orated

operate d?

reported

him

poison

which

Icaves

over a

KGB

K1WMd3

intelhrence

vldence of the

voltage wire.

• cause

of death.

01.2:15

10a: 11. 1109

other.'exloy Soviet Interests posed

Kremlin policy

to remove

dence of ine cause

MOn HANDON Or 1490

1Y09

ators

have

from public

olfice by

use

which

sassination

Western offi.

While this deadty weap;

hat the name

asked

lance

nanter

Oswald's

eight

davo in Mexico City

be

fore he assassination, in.

cluding

details

wald's

contact

with the

Mian

KGB

embassy

there,

CIA

chief

gave

the

Kremlin's as

don gas in

•committee

Doeuments3

very du-

Hustla'g

Commis

to succeed Presi

dont

Johnson.

While

FBI olficiala d

warned

Speaker

Mcdos

dedicated antid

Who that

to there

guep

other

4the

one all Insteady Me Come

Jah

p. 8593

---

## Page 95

14-00000

DISPAICH

PROCESSINO ACHON

MARKED FOR INDEXING

Chief of Station, Mexico City

INFO.

NO INDEXING REQUIREO

ONLY QUALIFIED DESK

FROn

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROSHARE HO

SUBJECT

Chief, WH Division

O Lee Harvey OSWALD

ACTION RÉQUIRED - REFERENCES

RELEASE IN FULL

MICROFILM

1999

Action Required: Please advise re negatives

In view of

Lee Harvey OSWALD and WOFACT evidence,

recent reopening of the publicity regarding

like to determine whether the Station

Headquarters would

still has on hand

the negatives from which the prints avallable at Headquarters

were made of the unidentified "mystery man" coming out of

both the Soviet and. Cuban Embassies.

on file,

If they are still

it is requested that they remain so, and that they

be forwarded Headquarters for retention rather than

Is the latter action is ever contemplated.

S, Biect

Elsie I. SCALETTI

HEAd QuARteRs

Request foR t

negatives

of the wurden tufied

JEaving both the Souret

Embassies

REPRODU

ubA

HAN"

Distribution:

2 - COS, Mexico City

CROSS REFERENCE TO

RI

Chrono

Oswald

(soft files

ABSTPINS

14.33

USE FREVIOUS.EDITION.

MFG. 1•66

169 of T

SAME AS

1061-964

201-289248

₫ 8 HAY 1987

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

DATE

EMNY-15488

18 May

1967

CLASSIFICATI GROUP 1

Excludes from armati

HOS FILE NUMBER

declass!lication

201-289248

ORIGINATING

OFFICE

WH/1

C. Busto -videla

TYPIST

sas

COORDINATING

ExT.

6954

OFFICE SYMBOL

DATE

OFFICER'S HAME

FINED

Well 1:2

0000245

OFFICE SY:ABOL

C/WH/1

CATE

1s0l

RELEASING

OFFICER'S SIG'ATURE

M. J. Kaulean Filen

DISPATCH

---

## Page 96

14-00000

° INFO.

FROM

SUBJECT

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

RELEASE IN FULL

1999

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION

PROCESSING ACTION

MARKED FOR INDEXINO

Chief of Station, Mexico City

NO INDEXINO REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED DESK

CAN JUDGE INDEXINO

Chief, WH Division

Lee Harvey OSWALD

IREO • REFERENCES

MICROFILM

Action Required: Please advise re negatives

In view of recent reopening of the publicity regarding

Lee Harvey OSWALD and WOFACT evidence still has on hand

like to determine whether the Station

Headquarters would

the negatives from which the prints available at Headquarters

were made of the unidentifled

"mystery man"

both the Soviet and Cuban Embassies. If they are

coming out of

it is requested that they remain so,

forwarded Headquarters for retention rather than

and that they

destroyed if the latter action is ever contemple

Dip of

1051-967

wire

SCALETTI

dispatch,

we're keep

coS

RBR

CAES

Distribution:

2 - COS, Mexico City

for 1 Oct 1963. RisK.

• илио истоканиь то

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

HMMW-15488

CLASSIFICATIDA: $31

pertaing and

DATE

18 May 1967

HOS FILE NUMBER

201-289248

9-8593

0000246

700F71

---

## Page 97

14-00000

UNCLASSIFIED

PHAL

- ONLY

CONFK NTIAL

SECRET.

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT; (Optionol)

FROM.

ACTION COPY

NO.

MEX/ 7034

DATE

TO:

building)

(Oftion designation, room number, end

DATE

BCTO

- RECEIVED

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

FORWARDED

COMMENTS (Numbor soch commont to show

to whom.

whom

Draw a line ocross colum oftor each commoni.)

=.

DUP

59-23

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

RELEASE IN FULL

1999

REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

We're have trou

tree houses om

naw addis Sati

day work

P- 8593

12.

13.

14.

15.

FORM

J-02

C000247

610 USE

PP.EVIOUS

EDITIONS

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE

ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

D709:71

---

## Page 98

14-000.00

CaRD KM62/S8

SUBECT: (Optionall

FROM:

AOTION COP!

TO:

(Officer designation, room number, and

building)

DATE

RECEIVED

FORWARDED

1.

2.

WIITE

3.

Д.

•EXTENSION

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

mexi

DATE

9332

COMMENTS (Number eoch comment lo show from whom

to whom.

Drow a line across column after each comment.)

Dupof

683-291

BEPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

Ai

gesture

11

12.

panels

Pheelyn

13.

15.

TORIA

3-62

File

610 SERONOUS D SECRET

• CONFIDENTIAL

D

Lee Harry Osah,

p.8593

INTERNAL

UNCLASSIFIED

USE ONLY

0000248

2

---

## Page 99

14-00000

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

RELEASE IN FULL

SECRET

1999

XAAZ

3590:

Memo passad to Min Papich if FBI 27 November 1963

with INto aN proto conciage afambassios

andINto of KOSTIKO!.

..ie have photograpis coverags during dayligbt louri on lai

Vish, Cuing Grechosloval and Fullah Embassios. Thai consulates

are located in the embossion in thorofose the coverage di the

embasslea mould include coreraja d lu cuasulaton.

The jihotographic coverajo i lee mentioned lastallations is of

a continuori sature dartag dayllah 20u5s, loneper, verther

condulma abd echor factor daliertag day photogra

guise tha: the soverage not vi considered a

sniplete.

Der

ineill for identlication

Di all persons who arter ur

ich Laotallation.

fier cxamiaing

DENS On KOSTINOV, WO arE covinced

boyari reasonable doss tha ru is i utais alichi of the IGi.

Contributing to this concludion are bis gasocisies, bia roversects,

his isertean and otses contacts aml lis cover vonltion, as well zo

ho javolvernent is tha3

operatioi,:

9339

so bellove that to la connected with to 13th Departmost, KOST ISOV

Alas deflaltely con-

pacto Meatlication) end arranged

flamed bye

Document: Number 182÷621

8or Foid liviow on APR 1976

RECORD COPY.

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW

CONDUCTED ON 4 MAY 197E

E_ IMPDET OL PY 012ZU?

JFK

I copy of ?

#063

0000249

859 C:3

PHS

105 Tr

27501

201-267245

-SECRET

D

---

## Page 100

14-00000

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

RELEASE IN FULL

1999

NUMbER.

DTG.

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

DIR

PRIORITY

OPERATIONAL

IMMEDIATE

INFO.

INITIALS

INITIALS

63S2

CITE

BIOXT NUNSER

RUBAT GPFLOOR

ROE: DIR 18827

683

291

I. SOVIET EB AN CONSULATE ARE NOT OPEN TO PUBLIC.

OFFICES ARE IN COI

POULD ACCESSIELE TO FUELIC EX APPOLENIENT.

SOVIET CUARDS ARE ON OUISIDE GATE

AROUND CLOCK,. HORNAL WORK HOURS SUP 1965 HERE 0900 IO 1800 SUI RECENTLY CHANCED

0900 TO I400 MONDAY THROUGH FRIDAY, SOV CONSULATE FREQUENLY CHANGE. NOW OPEN

1100 TO IJ00 MONDAYS AND JACIDAYS, SIXMI SOVIST PAILIES LIVE II COMPOUND.

VISITORS RING BETT, AT GATE AT ALL MARIE BOVES.

BUSSIAN ST

aS CAN GET IN

ANYTIME. OIHERS USUALLY TURNED AHAY BY GUARD AFTE

#SOVISIS ARE NOT

KHORT TO ISSUE PEENITS FOR TRAVEL CUBA.

20. CUBAN EMB AND CONSULATE IN

FOUND BUT HAVE SEPARATE. ENTRANCES.

CONSULATE RECEIVIS VISITORS

TO 1400 HOURS MONDAS THROUGI FRIDAY.

EMBASSY FORCING HOURS AN

"0900 TO 1700 HOURS SANE DAYS BUT MOST EMBASSY

ISITORS USUALLY ATTENDED BEFORE 2400 HOURS, THESE HOURS AISO APPLIED DURLING

SEPT 63.

3. CUBAN IIE FROCEDUETS AND EDGUINLIOKS FOR ISSUING PERILIS FAR TRAVEL, TO

AND TEROUGH CUBA VISAS MORALIY VALID FOR THRES MONIES FROM DATE OF ISSUE.

PRIOR AUPHORIZATION FEOM HABANA LNVARIAELY REQUIRED BEFORE ISSUANCE ANY VISA.

APPLICANT CO-PLETES VISA APPLICATION FOEN AY CONSULATE, PERVISSION OFTEN OBIAINET

COORDINATING OFFICERS

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

CLASSIFICATION

OUTGOING

RELEASING OFFICER

0000250

---

## Page 101

14-00000

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

PRIORITY

OPERATIONAL

IMMEDIATE

INITIALO

OTG.

NUMDIA

INITIALE

INFO,

CITE

NUNSER

3332

IN EXCHANGE OF CALIS BEVER INBASSY AND LINNEX HABANA, IN MAHE CASES VISAS

ISSUED II SEPARATE SHEDI PAPER IN EFFORI CORCEAL FACT OF TEAVIT.

4, BEXICAN GOVI PROCHDURES AND RECULANIONS RE TRAVEL PEPRIME CHITZSTS TO

AND TAROUCH CUBA UNCHAICED SINCE FINA 20887 DATED 3 HAY 1963. PEPPES CNITATIS

FIVE PASSPORTS AND CUBAN VISAS ARE FRUE IO TRAVEL TO CURA, PEPRIVE CITIASIS

CAR OBTAIY TOURIST CARDS E8O MAXICAN CONSUL, HAVANA FOE RETUSE VIA MEXICO.

REPRODUCTION PRONIBITED

• i

BRIGGS

iNTICATING OFFICER

LCCHOADEIT

COORDINATING OFFICERS

CLASSIFICATION

OUTGOING

0000251

VCCURTIS

RELEASING OFFICER

---

