odie 0180

‘-

PRIOR 10 FUNG “TO ACTION BRANCH

@ FV Bite Sect 2 on back Detich back flap
and forward te BID

He shown ate not proper,
10. beiow and forward

6 sume
|__ tou per
ROW

ent cover sheet, unk
om taken or comm

foo | oare ornicens,

ha NO mecrnve vonnnvg” tunics

WH fel
wii fhe |

o Jee dle:

joes eee ; i
* eeerey Yurens ? Alban
Ss : as septs
waltlas all : ZL Dew here of
i PICO ~ Gcsfits BORE,

7 aaa er ia @
o LP Lgl \ : 7 RECORDS OFFICER STAMP

j The following action is
@uthoriced:
i

is
3

ow

73.

Signee:/,

ey i. ul H

v4, : : R.0. £829 -
w i : Note:

1s

1 ‘if approp. slate,

ww I

1
rear

FICE RUMBER PRWEB CODE

Dt PAV IS3Z

ance !
movest |

SaTT mERORINES CSCOWEAT BATE SocumenT NUMBER

— | ¥ Gre 72 UFAA 03730

arrears SECRET
2 RET!

Do Not Reproduce

t

NTO
ti use Only


PROCESSING ACTION

{no ootenc etaueto

fom ovasiun sk
| JUDGE MDEXING

co 7 y)
___Chief of sratil QR miami
wHt\Operational/Typic.- Liaison/FBI

‘Manuel Eugenio VEGA Perez, aka "Marcos"!
ACTON RTQUEED- ERNE

Action Required: See paragraph 6 {

Reférences: A, CAS/M-2913, 8 July 1971 (Havana telephone number 99-4282)
B, CAS/M-2901, 9 June 1971 (Havana -or Santiago- telephone
number 5-4792)
C. UFAW-1038, 24 February 1971 (Cuban telephone numbers)
D. UFAW-1000, 5 January 1971 (List of telephone numbers
“associated with DSE/DGI personalities and installations)
IE, CSCI-316/03120-69, 2 September 1969 (!"The Organization of
the Cuban Directorate of Intelligence," Source: Orlando
CASTRO Hidalgo, Cuban DGI Officer who defected 31 March 1969)

i

POC. MICRO, SER.

JAN 21 1972

MiCROFILMED

1, The purpose of this dispatch is: (A) to suggest the possibility that
Manuel Eugenio VEGA Perez, former Chief of the DGI Center in Mexico City,
may now be operating in Miami, and (B) to check out this possibility through
Headquarters traces and cooperation with FBI/Miami,

2, FBi/Miami previously reported that, on 13 June 1971, a call was made
to Antonio CASTRO, Havana telephone number 99-4282, by Albio CASTRO,
Miami number 885-4194, Reference A relayed the information to FBI/Miami
that Manuel Eugenio VEGA Perez! Havana telephone number was 99-4282,
according to a report dated 11 August 1964. That same reference also provided
the information that VEGA Perez had been identified by several sources as an
officer of the Cuban DGI; his DGI alias is "Marcos"; he was assigned to the
Cuban Embassy in Mexico City from_April 1962 to June 1966 and, during the last
two years of his tour, was Chief of the DGI Center there; and, in October 1966,
he was reported to be Director of International Relations for the Cuban National
Council of Culture. (While this appointment to the Council of Culture may seem
an odd one for a DGI officer, we know that the DGI arranges for its personnel to
be assigned such jobs in order to qualify them for Ministry of Foreign Relations

Continued...

Seas fone
: Ua Z

eg
[Typed: 6 January 1972
RT ooo

| ros
s ‘ee | /201-334253
te

Distribution:
Orig &2 ~ C/WHD

PATH MBDA ANS Wma
UFAA-3730



DISPATCH

Mm

posts overseas, For example, DGI officers have been assigned to the
<asa De Las Americas in preparation for assignments as Cultural Attaches,
Orlando CASTRO Hidalgo also reported that the Cuban Institute of Friendship
with Peoples is now under the control of the DGI.) Reference A also advised
FBI/Miami that this Station had no information on VEGA Perea" activities
subsequent to October 1966,

3, Reference E noted that one "Marcos" (true name unknown) was
assigned to Section Ill of the DGI. (Section UI is divided into nine sections:
CIA, Counter-Revolution, UN, Mexico, Canada, USSR, Czechoslovakia,
East Germany, and a False Documentation Support unit.) Perhaps this
"Marcos" is Manuel Eugenio VEGA Perez: seems likely in view of VEGA
Perez* background.

4, It should also be noted that FBI/Miami provided information that
one "Marcos" LNU made a call on 1 June 1971 from Miami telephone 374-2173.
(@ pay phone) to "Catalina" LNU at Santiago de Cuba telephone number 5-4792.
Although this Station was unable to find any record of Santiago"5-4792, Havana
5-4792 appearéd-on.a list of names, addresses and telephone numbers of
Persons believed to be members of Cuban G-2, The list, provided by INS/Miami
in July 1961, lists this Havana number as belonging to one Jorge FERNANDEZ
(LNU), The list was compiled by INS from a notebook belonging to Salvador
MIZRAJA Behar, born 22 September 1926 in Havana, Cuba, MIZRAJA Behar,
a naturalized U.S, citizen, was a Captain in Cuban Army Intelligence in 1959
and 1960, He returned to the U.S. in 1961,

5. The possibility exists that an error was made in the original
notation by MIZRAJA Behar; he may have intended to write "Santiago 5-4792"
rather than "Havana 5-4792", Another possibility is that names of citiea
were unintentionally transposed later in copying this list, Although the
connection ~if there is one~ is very tenuous, there is-also the possibility that
the "Marcos" who called from the pay phone on I June 1971 is Manvel Eugenio
VEGA Perez, new operating as Chief of a DGI (or DSE) Center in Miami, The
Station believes, however, that this latter possibility is worth further
investigation and that the place to begin is to attempt to trace VEGA Perez!
assignments since October 1966,

~ "6. Action Requested: (A) Traces on Manuel Eugenio VEGA Perez,
aka "Marcos", with particular attention to period October 1966 to the present;
(B) Traces on Salvador MIZRAJA Behar, DPOB: 22 September 1926, Havana,
Cuba;, (C) Traces on Antonio CASTRO, Havana telephone number 99~-4282,-
and on Albio CASTRO, Miami number 885-4194, (Station WH/Miami has
several traces on the name Antonio CASTRO but none identifiable with Cuban
Intelligence, There is one Antonio CASTRO listed in the 1967 Havana
telephone directory at 19 No, 552, Vedado, telephone number 32-8160, The *

Station has no traces on Albio CASTRO. )
Lewis 4, SHOQUI

Eee

S
SSIFICAT Ls TASES. iz
pe i H
{S82 veernewousroinon, | SCRE SI ‘Leones | 2 0f2

