# 104-10142-10092

## Page 1

104-10142-10092

INTERNAL USE ONLY

CONFIBENTIAL

Journal - Office of Legislative Counsel

Monday - 3 October 1977

HS C

Biling

Page

725

Chris

25. (Unclassified - DTC). LIAISON Professor G. Robert Blakey,

Chief Counsel and Staff Director, House Select Committee on Assassinations,

visited the Agency for meetings with OLC, OGG, and OS. (See Memo

for the Record.)

26. (Conidentiat - GLC) LIAISON Dropped by the office of

Ralph Preston, House Appropriations Defense Subcommittee staff, and

alerted him to the fact that the Director would be making courtesy calls

on several members of the Defense Subcommittee tomorrow and I

assumed that the Director would discuss the realignment of certain

aspects of the intelligence structure in furtherance of Presidential

Directive/NSC-17.

27. (Unclassified - THW) CONSTITUENT Craig Betancourt,

in the office of Representative Fortney Stark (D., Calif.), called requesting

information in order to answer a constituent with respect to questions

related to the use of missionaries abroad in intelligence activities. I

referred to the regulation on the use of missionaries and this seemed

to satisfy the request.

28. (Confidential - THW) CONSTITUENT Burt Margolin,

Administrative Assistant to Representative Henry A. Waxman (D., Calif.),

called stating that a constituent and close friend of the Congressman, a

Mr. Wittenberg, had called stating that persons purporting to be

representatives of the CIA, on two separate occasions, had visited a

Soviet emigre family living in his (MI. Wittenberg's) house and wanted

to insure that these persons did in fact represent the CIA. After

checking with DCD, I told him that they were legitimate representatives.

and that the Agency was very much interested in being able to debrief

the Soviets involved.

Gery slay

Legislative Counsel

cc: O/DDCI Mr. Grinwis

Ex. Sec.

DDI DDA DDS&T

Mr. Hetu

SA/DO/O IC Staff

Compt-oller

NIO

WTER

CONFIDENHAL

Mr. Lapham

20492

---

