# 104-10178-10004

## Page 1

104-10178-10004

TO

DISPATCH

Chief, WHID

Chief of Station, Habana

FROM

..Chief of Base, Santlajo de Cuba

Politieal Organisatione - Horiniento D

Crintiano (HDi, Christian Deuoratlo Movement).

ACTION MONRIO

Hone

PINACHISA

+ 1154-327

19-99

13 January 1960

6) 3

NO MORAN MIQUIMO

ANTERIANO CARI DE AUDGED

Lo Attached for the Information of Headquartora 1a the "politloal bible" of the

MD, A recently announced organization which has hopes of blossoming Into a

political party. Also attached lo the Bolotin Formatiro • Informativo No. 3,

dated 15 Docember 1959, which states that the MDC will announce soon the date

of its firet national congress.

Further, the MDC hopos to Invite Christlan

Democrate fros many countries of the world ineluding De. Rafael CALDERA,

Secretary Ceneral Nacional del COPPI In Venesuela.

The HDC has Ite national officei at 263 Ninth Sto In Vodado, Habana.

following persons are the leadera of the MDC!

The

1.:.

owner of the Central Dolores

.:RETURNTO CIA

is colllo, Valentin ARENAS

Background Use Only

ARAILO FIALIO

•Do Not Reproduce

the Mo le not. highly organized.

A basio organisation exists in all provinces

with Camaguey the best organized having a membership of 600-1, 000... The .

Sentlajo do Cuba organization 1a headad br Lauresna GARROTS Jr., broker,

Guille mos HARTINY.

poll ted prime at the pens, labor erad aude deen

The Santlago organisation has 1ts political sighte

organisation of tralve studente at the Univeralty of Orionto and can count

Linted strength in the toachers? organisation. However, at this tiae the MDC

has no means of reaching other atudents axcept through word of mouth. No plans

adlet at tla tine for publiahing MIc propaganda.

However, in the future the

MD 1n Habana plans to mineograph solected articlos and send then to the

provincial organisations for diatribution.

The looal HDC 1e 100king fer a

porson or avenue which they can use to reach the campesinos and labor.

30

MDC roprosentatives have travelled to most countries of Europe and some

countries of South Anerica to study Chriatian Demooratie movemente wherever

thoy have axisted to learn the modua operandl of those movemente and to

capitalizo on their experience.

*o The Mid roalises that it must be very careful in les actlons having alresdy beer

attacked by Prime Minister CASTRO.

he MDC all do everything poseible to avolo

boing connected with counter-rovolutionary groups so that they cannot be elassed

In the same catogory as BATISTA elementa.

05

So

The above information was noelved from

who 18 under

developmont by the writer?

1s pro-US having received his education in

the United States.

no tired Sto now ate ve us In onto business has come

None of the abore Inforustion has beon placed on a "mat" on the assumption that

most of 1t has already been reported by the Havana Station.

CHARGED FROM RID/FI

Distribution:

3 = Hqs w/Atte

2 = Habana w/o atta

2 - Files

CHARGED FROM PIE

CHAAGED FROM RIDITI

Il january 1960

8188÷8

2/PV

• 51.

---

