ioeesio-orag] |

‘CUSSIFICATION. - PROCESSING ACTION

iSPATCH

5 SECR ET : “| wanxeo for wockne
Chief, European Division XX _| Ko woncne reourreo
7 + Toney ouaurten esx

! Chief of Station, | [can sunce woExIKG

F Chief of Base,[_ : miceori

Assi @CALL MHORDER Opera: Tonal

E Recent Newspaper Article Concerning Richard Case NAGEL
“of [ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

Reference: ko71, 10 October. 1968 tae
a

Action required: FYI,

‘

1. Forwarded as an attachment hereto is an article
which appeared in the "Overseas Family" on 20 June 1969,
written by Thomas C,“ LUCEY about Richard Case NAGELL, Subject
of Reference, :

2, According to the article NAGELL asserts that in

Rugust’ 1962 he was employed by the CIA, He further claims

that the U,S, Government is forcibly keeping him separated

from his family, a wife and two-children, The story makes
reference to his recent release from an East German prison,

as reported in Reference, and states that the following persons
‘ were the cas¥ of characters involved at, the time of .his release:
“KLAY, Chief of the Eastern Affairs Section of the U.S.
n/Berlin; Wolfgang VOGEL, well known East Berlin attorney ;
: NEW, wealthy Washington, D.C, attorney; Bruce A,’ FLATIN,
Chief “of the’ U.S. Berlin Mission*s Public Safety Section, who,
.NAGELL asserts, is "a long-time CIA member and, FLATIN is not
his real name;" a doctor, Major George Raymond BABINEAU, a
psychiatrist at the U.S. Army Hospital in Berlin; and an
unidentified man,

(Continued)

APPROVED: Sie ae ee ee

Ferdinand 8, ‘Womack

Attachment:

Newspaper article - a/s h/w
ri

Distribution:

- Ga
¢{~ Chief, EUR w/att a/s b/w (1 copy) Enclosed fora aubsnate:

2- cos,f | w/o/att py pany ett

CROSS REFERENCE TO DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER ‘DATE JUL pes 3 1969
D_200-/20-/02 Ecpa~ 88312 2 duly 1969

‘ CLASSIFICATION. “HOS FILE NUMBER.
| SECRET oar0908



pan unceep eagerness

faite a — oo

Zon OF” —SLRSSERTISN — | SapaTeR TARO RO ROMER
- CONTINUATI ’ a
DISPATCH . - SECRET. wa. S312
feos EG!
|
3.

The article does not make clear whether or not
NAGELL is back in Germany at the moment, nor do we have any
information regarding his present whereabouts, other than
‘the statement in the article that he is probably now in the
United States. :The Public Safety Officer/USBER advises us,
however, that subsequent to his release from prison: rn East
Germany in October 1968 he again visited West Berlin and con-
tacted the Public Safety Office where he complained about
not being able to locate his children,-: -

4, There are nol Base traces on the author of
the article, Thomas C, LUCEY, Since the article appears to

be an effort. to discredit the U.S, Government and certain
officials of the government we would

iving
any traces which Headquarters or the, may have,
Welsh G. CQa..

Winfield A, CALVIN

