rod-10183-10076

edie t
ote, RETURN TO CIA

: Pate . . Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

* RWORANDUM FoR: Chief, WH/SA/éI ©
VIA Chief, WH/PO/A

SUBJECT : AMMUG/1 Operation
Target Analysis and Non-surfac@ble Leads

1. Reference is made to your memorandum date 16 June 1964

7
requesting Target Analysis Summary Reports on leads to be
exploited and lists of those leads which the Branch desires

not to be surfaced to the Intelligence community.

2. Attached are separate lists for each appropriate
Central American and Caribbean country detailing nationals
of each country whose names have been mentioned or otherwise
cropped up during the debriefing of AMMUG/1. Wi/2 considers,
at thie time, that it is not feasible nor desirable to surface
any of theso leads to the intelligence community, pending a
final determination as to the feasibility of pursuzing some
of these leads for operational exploitation. Those leada
which are determined to be of no operational potential will be
released to your office on a continuing basie for surfacing

to appropriate agencies,

3. Attached also are seven completed Target Analysis
Summary Reports on:

a) Francisco Javior MBLLA Pena
>) Jaime DURAN Hernando
uc) Socrates Tsaias PEGUERO Sehuroer
_ 4) Jean Norbert MONTERO
per @) Mauricio de la SELVA Venegas

f) Roque DALTON Garcia


Ups

~

-2-

g) Noel GUERRZRO Santiago

These individuals represent immediate targets on whom we
have already undertaken action, We anticipate that certain
selected other individuals from the lists cited in
paragraph one above will become targets, and accordingly,
are in’ the process of examining and investigating thes
As these individuals are culled through, Target Analysis
Summary Reports shall be prepared and forwarded to your
office,

2
Gohn mw. whitten)
c/wH/2 ©

Attachments:
Target Analysis Summary Reports
AMMUG/1 Leads Not to be Disseminated

Distribution:
O& 1 = C//sA/CI (w/atts)
1 ~ WH/PO/A (w/atts) ©
3 = WH/2 (w/atts)



\ :
Dosinican Republic Leads Hot to be Dissexinated ARTO,
Francisco Javier HélLA Pena

Jaime DURAN Hercando \
Socrates Isaiss PiGUEW Sehuroer

““Hpidio RULZ (this is an alias of *TTBION" ~ true nane still not’ known)

David Onelio SPAILLAT Caapas
Francisco Zleuterio RAS Peguero
Francisco Eizarde RAMCS Pecuero
Teresa Inoconcia Z5PATLLAT Hernandez

“Jose Bienvenido GUSIRA Kouel

Heetor Aucusto CADRAL, Ortesa
Leopolde Arioste G2ULION autz

Joss CAI3A Lacrono

Silvano LO2A Vicente

Tandor Zenoni $2110 telaonve

Ana Mercedes SSPTHAL de Castro

Baldesiro ‘ASTRO Garcia

Marcelino GRULLO# Jimenez

Realto ALGO Geran

Norge BOTW) Fernando: :
Rafael Francisco TAVeRAS fiosario

Huxo TOYIS Vargas

Cayetano Armanio iDORIGIE! Bel rads



Antonio Euilio Jose [A Conde

“Simon BOLIVAR

Artaro Rafeel sSPAILLAT sedrigues
Carmen &, HEXMANDZZ do Paras
Ernesto LOPEZ Molina

Haxino LOPZ Moline



Phy. Auweue Thier ~ x

21 Salvador Leads Not to be Disseainatod AEUO/L Operation
SE tes Hot to bo Diaseatnatod MEUG/L Operation

a Roberto BARCIAWD Marin Guten UMktAcE PHAwIEG rey

\ Raul Fornando ZSO0RR Melender Cuccnnea uacrace IKarive cary KK

~ Carlos Alberto FLORES Hernander Gurnjeiia Wanrane TaMIELE cory X
~Juan-Remon LOZ Resales Alas Sh RET eC Bewcrnws MA Ie

“Carlos MARTINEZ Ortis DEAD - Gukacttin wnxtare r3eAawint ovey

 Bleardo Augusto MAXIDNSZ Vanogas Guree seta UWAKraxe Jeamive wey

Tran Danilo MODAN Leon Gurecnia Wanpace teAimine cacy X

YM Uisandro RMIRY Solis Garecies WARrARE pearerec cory X

“Pedro (OURIGUEZ Guiewncn LEARFAKE TRAILING ne Aart

~~ Ciro arturo RUT! Torres Gu ren ielA cineca IMAL wor yOdere, re

 Wietor Mammal SARC Bonilla Gereced LAK FANE PITH IAe © aches A

frat CONTRERAS Moline. PSIG CF Wet R GACH ER Bower
7 arturo ALPARO Fuentes Cue kita Line FA0E TAAIWING ancy

7 Raul Antonio VARMAS “Cue RiLtA seperane [EAI MG CARY

TEN iqies (Aly

Andres antonio VELAS:
Roque DALTON Garcia
a. 7
TA Manvel antonio caLeRna Gebers taelaer pearly hd Pee relourpslotas

: Ot
7A Sooo Alberto CARRILID Calderon Awewe ze pwaue pv

a GUERIN WAM FARE

evel Cacewt)
“Hose Salvador Sosales Gurw aed unwFawe 7aiwWwe aely
5 2 Pqoe
TA Mearde isto Riess aceur © [yee se cevraer wire EAeeas
wv” Francisco O¥aN cardang Cue eco LaRue tree we crey
vu Freddy Guerra GHEMRIOA Lone hac eA eG etey
v Armando LOPE! Maatial Guusexnca feanFacee 4earevu ove y

7 dose Antonio GARCIA Livers Gu nuls LEAK EAE AAMAS Cm ey K

Spey



py

-2e

“pedro SAMIACHIZ Castro GY
“7 Pooben MARTI. Guardado Gow FWA 1E*

2 agul Concopeion Morales wo Ktever 1% AwmeG ot

© Jose WAHCIA Martinez Gufennes wane are

papierpual wanes Rene’ dapeetiaee

Jesus Antonio PAZ Guerre nire Lear FARE

7 Rita UMTREZ « GUER KILLA tds

Bodine A2VaLovelsar— Aura oF Jesus A

AGEAT z

ana Leticia B&JLAZA (BARTAGAI) Quiros Guens

€ raul Cagtoltenss mm eeeree? 1% ert | Jooms
te Aarne. 6 Gn ahaa
Th op 22 1 aPlacent
TAL on
Acco AaERS ry

e
ay eased

PEAAILER CLAKFAICE peaneG vert

warmer usto ay Atk swe Gow

pace THAI ee

Aacsue-t Maw s -

\

ix

A BART ARE PRAIA oaey

pager ancy

peAraieG o4ley
ee 1d JRAIMITS CE
wen naeerawe

teareine wey
gaey
weteeie PAR

ie = cures?
Jone 18 Ee Sead
CLEC pn meatttL Pee eet euey x

wens Swe see FO weet

Cee

ea pe omnes A

pancte case



Guatenals Leads Hot to be Dissovinated S06 /1 Operation

Antonio JONN Karcos:
Y sudio cnsnend storra G/M
& Pranetsco CRUZ Figueroa G/o~ a
/ Vietor Namel CUSLLAR Carranza G/”
~ Bernardo DIAZ Mendatz yi ove Y
_- Polando HERRS2A Homnandas G/M . :
U Mares Antonio LONI Aguiter C/o Ammec-/ Hains
agar Roberto 1080 pom G4 Anmunc 4 ANE Ss
soso Aquiles L. AORALES Gjw Ammsac-1 Wusws

Yamel Jooue ORTSDA Pez

t~ Angel PALLNCIA Sancnes G/W cowry

Ricardo Arturo GUZHAN (pseudo: Alberto sAYTS elpar}
Jacobo ARBIN/ Ouzzsn

Hario BARRLANTS

Mamuol GALICH

Garaen 20262030 Soa

Fomande SOSA Yel

Marco Antonio YON Sesa

Lais Augusto TULCIOS Lina ‘i
Francisco AMANO Granados :
Alicia MOYA do Amado

Josa Hamael FORTOWE

Victor Manuel GUTTRUS! Gardin

Tsabel HOEL Rossre da Sosa

SECRET

Nolida TURCLOS



Eaiti Leads Not to be Disseninated

Jorge Herbert MONTERO
Rene DEPESTRS
(Unenown) *PETTH*



Hionduras Leads Not to be Diaseninated

Maglio 40220 Espinal
Hario 905A Mavarro
Lats Randolfo BANBGAS

AMUS/1 Operation


Hicararua Leads Not to bo Dissoninated

Noel OUERR:R0 Santiago
Professor: TONRES (probably delberto TORR:S Zspinoza)
Silvio MATURGA (or MALLORCA)

Ernesto MARTINEZ :

German PALACHI Baca

Refrain SANCHSZ

Carlos A. TINO Montiel

Marvin CASTRO

Polix MONTERREY Dobil

Mlieio Dtharinte GONZALH. Koreno
Mlojandro ALEGNIA Barmudez

Juan Jose GAXSIA Lorto

ALL ALTAMIRANO

Bayerdo ALTAMINAD Lopes

Ivan BACA

Alejandro Benz

Anibal WORIO Garcia a
Sarique KARSROD

Orlando QUANT Juintena

Rolando QUANT

Monterrey 2.755

Rodolfo ROM. Goes

Strain SANGHa Sancho

ARG,

:
i
1


‘Thelae KINO
Jorge TURXER
(Urcoom) “Luts Sonrisa Case" - 2 male cuiteriote
i
|
i
i

as00/) Operation


Dominican epublic

““Zarget Anslysis summary Report we, eration
SUBJECT: Francisco Javier NELLA Pana aka Francisco Iavier MELIA Dons

a

aka "Pichi®

Significance of Target

)

>)

)

Guden Intelligence Service Connection

AGLIA has been identified as a Singleton Cuban Intelligence
Service Agent in the Dominican Republic, trained as a froguan,
and aleo in S/d and cipners, ifis exact mission on behalf of
the CIS is not know,

Communist Party Affiliation

Subject 1s a member of the Castroist revolutionary Asrupacion
Politica Catoree de Junio (ACJ - Ukth of June Political Group).
The APCS fa not a Coamnist Party per oe3 however, its present,
dominant leaders are Sarxist-Cosmnist In their political
direction, Tho APJ 1s presumed penetrated by ectual Caczunista,
and is imgyn to receive coral and material eupport from Cubs.

Information “hich Could be obtained

1, Ais exact mission on behalf of the Cutan Intelligence Service.
what information fs he required to furnish to the Jervice?
The reason for thia informtion.

2, ‘shat persons will he uso to acquire this information? will
they all be unvitting?

3. shat ia his exact role az a frogman7 (for arms caches,
demolition ete..)

4. Information on bis accomodation address in France, Additional
information on his accomodation address in Jamaica,

S. Inforsation on the relationship between Cuba and the A2C
and plans for tho Dominican Republic.

6. Information on other Cuban 15 agents known to ain.

7. Depbling (see iI for more datails).


mi.

Tv.

Ye

Surrent Location

Hermanos Miralles So. 5, Hadrid, Spain (since February 196L, when

he vent thore fro: Cuba. In Aadrid; he was Joinod by his Dosinican
girl-friend, Monera 3\IA2Di Decillo, whoa he married there, heitner
hag yet returned to tho foninican Republic.) His last known address

in the Dominican Repsblic is Avenida Independencia bo. 55, Sento Doxingo.

Yalnerabilities (for recruitaent or defection)

None <nown. The only information on NSLLA was acquired in April 1363
when be transited Mexico enroute to Cuba. At that tlae NELLA became
quite upset when’ "salio a Cuba” (loft for Cuba) was staaged in his

passport. Accordingly, with this beim: the enly past information oa
Subject, we would be starting Crow "scrateh*.

Faaily and iolativos
a) vifer Mloaara SAIADLi Decillo, doainican citizen (no information)

Father: Lats Mita, Goainican citizen (no inforsation)

Motaart Noesi (nes uakrown) de

(Tas santo Gaainco Statioa ig presently ca: tin: an Lavesti.ation

of his relatives)
b) Hone <nowm to be in tne United States.
Blo-raghic

Date of Birth: 23 February 1237

Place of Births Santo “oeinjo, dominican Republic

Citisensaipr Nonintean sepublic

fanpiavess Native jpant: only lancoaze capability xnom to us at

this tise)

Physical Description: <¢* Lo* tell teas
13 pounds
blac. hair (cut short - tut not crev-cut)
dar brow eves
gwar canpleston

Protorracht (s avalladle at tre Sus:

Otner pertinent altar Nit. sald be deserined as ‘paratty". 1 nea
no mustacng and doo3 not snave.

LLA, Dominican citizen (no inforaation)


aay

LUT

7 ~3e

VI. Gperational Leads and Lines to ubject for necruitrent or Defection 1

oe
a) (2DTH/g9 - Lives in saxe apartent vailding area es Subject.
Has furnished sose’ inforaation on Subject and bis cirl-friend,
; which he obtained throws; nornal contacts.

06
+») Gatae. DURAN Hernando]~ Operational Lead only (see separate
tarzet sheet). ‘le is close to MILLA and also could lead us to
@ still unifentified C13 acent *TIBUWN* wno used DURAN as an
unwitting courier for tae dolivery of aicrofila to Cuba.

0;
: c) (Biossn - atnoash not a leader of the APCS, no.nas zood access
Hl tO the APCJ's extreaist "circle". He nas been used witn extremely Hy
i good results for inforzation on othar Cuban taryets of interest.

ations

f a) As was stated above, NELLA {2 completely new to us. However,
‘the Station Is currently conductiny an investication of HELLA
in aa effort to determine ais vulnerability for recruitment/defsction.

b) ita the present raling Dosinican Triusvirate, Subject could be
arrested if ne cama to security notice, not only in nis position
witn tre CIS but also if he becase involved in auy subversive
Comwanist activitioa. in the event he is arrested te undoubtedly i
would be desorted.



Deainttan Republic ~. if

Target Analysis Jumary Répsrt AOE, tion

SUBJECT: Jalno OURAN Yernando axa Jaime SUXAN Hernandes ata ‘Jimy®

I.

Til.

Significance of Target
8) Connection with Cuban Intellizence Service

Subject 13 not @ Cuban Intelligence Service agent, bat did
receive guerrilla training in Cuba.

b) Communiat Party Affiliation

DURAM is Secretary-General of tne pro-Castro Acrupacion folitica
de Catoree Junio (APCS - llth of Juno dovenent) in the Dominican
Republic, and 1s a seaber of tnat faction of the aPCy fevoring
the training of its sezbers to direct the future of a socialist
governcont.

¢) Subject is a close friend of Francisco Javier MELLA feua, an
identified Cuban {ntalligence Service Avant in the Doxiaican
Ropublic., Subsect waz also used as an “unsitting? courier by
a@ still unidentified Cuban ayjent "TIBUGON® in Wie Jon.
apublic, Subject unwittingly carried to Cuba for "TIR<Ux"
in weptexber 1343, a eatch-boo containing alerofila.

d) Utility -  renotration of the 1. June & plana & intentions
of the vubans vs D2.

Current, Location
Believed to bo In Cuba. iias buen thore since Septerber 1>3.

Last «nom Doniaican Republic address: capaillat 722, santa Soningo,
Doainican Kepublic.

Vulnerabilities (for recruitownt or defection)

Mone ynowm. (Also see VIL - zvalzation)

Faatly and delatives

a) Wife + Gloria ACHYELO da Quran, Dorinican eitizen (no iaforaation)
Mo ower relatives ‘“nown.

b) No known relatives In the U.S.A.



ve Blographic Data

Date of Births 17 June 1933

Place of Birth: Jarabacoa, Doninican Republic

Citizenshint Joeinican Kemdlic

Lanvmace wdility: ‘ative ‘ipanish (only ability <now to us at wits tine)
Frysical deacriptionr: (requestin; frou the otation)

Photogrephr Is available at the Deak

VI. Operational Leads and Lines to subject for i itmont or Defection
Gy

ay
CabTHA2 - Lives in the sane residential section as DURAS. Has
furniahed some inforaation an Subject, which he obtaina throuzh
normal, contacts.
SHPROSS/L - Has provided nunerous reports on DUUS's activities
witnin the APCJ.

/L = Has provided triof inforsation oa Subject's activities
within the APCJ and his travel to Cuba.

VII. Zvaluaticn

In tat se presuse that WAN is a aarc-core Communlst and al sresent
have scant information for a tarzet assesssont, Imcdiate proszects
for recrultsst aro virtually nill. cequirenents can be leviod on

° iO32/1 since hg ie a controlled source: formation could be
elicited froaGApTH/22 and possibly tres £33 5 4s developed,
leads fro foregoinz could bo folloved uz on, bat, aa indicated
above, wo vill bo startinz at the vottom of the ladder on WRAN as an
operational tarzot.



Tarcet Analysis Sumary Report,

SUBIECT: Socrates Isaias Pxu0e20 Sehuorer alias Neloon BARcT Oisla axa *fupo"

Te

iz cut Dominican Republic

AZO/L Operation

Sivpiticance of Target

In that Subject lives in Cubs he could be extrenoly valuable to
SH/SA and ail/2/Douinican Republic.

a) Comection with Cuban Intaliigenc Service

PeQUEAD 1a the APCS (Agrugacton ?olitica Catorce de Junio -
Lith of Juno Political Jrovp) representative in Cuba acting
as focal point betveen the APCJ and the Cuban Intellixence
Service (001).

bd) Commnist Party Arfiliation

APCS vepregontative in Cuba, Subject nas besa reported as @
nonber of tno pro-Castro faction of the Arcd since Lyul wen
he was exiled ta Curacao.

¢) Infornation xhish Subject Could Furnish

1.

2.
3.

jubjec t could furnien infomation on the relationsnip
betveon the Cuban Intellivence service and tae AbOS.

Information on the APCJ ag a party, plans, nenbers ote,

Inforvation on Cuban Intelli-ence Service personnel xnown
to bla.

fossible operations of the Cutan Intallizence service aveiast
tne Demtaicaa Heauulic.

vossiple information on mattara of interest to dH/5a aitnin Cuba.

Roublin; ay a vonetrarion of the Cudan Intellivence Gervico
and the Arc. :

Inforeation on Torinicaas bela: trained in Cuba, not only in
guerrilla trainings, but as acenra,

i
i
i



we

Cerrent Location .

Lives in Habana, Cuba (address unxnow). [n Cuba be goes by the
age of Nolson BAR:T. :

Fulnarabilitios (for rocruitaent or defection) !
Hons imown. No information on his activities since 1741 is cnown. 1
i i

Fezily snd Zolatives |

a) Rife - Gisela SSiCION de Peuoro, daughter of formor dominican i
Coneul in Curacao. i

b) Children ~ one daughter (nase and aze unznown), and one son
(name uninown) born in Habana, Cuba in Deceaber 19/3.

¢) Father - Isaies P3GUER) Perez (doccaned)
a9 (no additionsl information)

a) Mother - Tulia (nee unznom) de ?:
¢) Brother ~ Helen Ranson P:MUiA) Sehuorer (daccased)

£) Sisters ~ Sobeya 0, F:MUsi0 Suuourer and Maria 2. Puli) Semoror
(ne additional inforsatian)

g) No relatives xnown to bo in tae United =tates.
Blograpnic Data

Sate of Birth: 1!, January 1927
Place of Birtht San redro de Hacoris, foainican xepublic
(HOTS: when travelling uses Joninican sassport issued 23 July 1763
in the nae of telson ALizT Hala, date ard place of birtay
23 January 1939, Doaimican Republic; occusation: student)
Citizenship: Dominican xepuolic 7 possibly chan,od to Cuban.
hanguaze ability: lative shz otaers not know.
rtysical Description: 5'7" tal
159 pouads
brom-s:inned
blac< cyes
wars eyerlasses
sears moustache

vhotorraph {3 available of nin ant aleo the real Belson BAR:T Disla

Other pertinent data: Leberstory Teennician


YI. Operational Leads and wines to Subject for Recraitmcnt or Defection

wie have several; sources reportin: on activities of the APCJ, its
fenders etc. xitein the oninican Repudlicl Gap. and/or

OUGEPT/L? could be used, to elicit information on 7i0UER) throagh
{ioir normal contactso2 (op.ass/l ts beias used at this tine to
report on otner Cuban targets.

VEL. gvalustion

‘hile there is no inforaation ea hand to indicate Subject is
approachable, the fact that be ie fa Cuba, xnowm to AX-UG/l - whom
aipnt approach him - and has been identified to us he bocones of
operational interest. Obviously our objective is to continze our
interest and collect what inforastion ve aight, awaiting the day for
his exit from Cuba, At that tine nore dofinitive action miznt be
considered. xis taortance as a source of information on inside
Cuba and that country's intontion and cavabllities on tie Doninican

Republic cannot cs ‘discounted and mocit our continued alertness to
his activities and whereabouts,



‘Target Analysis Summary Report i AMMUG/1 Operation.

SUBJECT: ROque DALTON Garcia

es

$y

$304

Bignificance of Target

DALTON 1s a recruited agent of the Cuban DGI. He has been
trained in guerrilla warfare, a/v, radio transmission,
and radio reception AMMUG/1 claims that Subject isa
member of tho Centra: Committee of the PCES. AMUG/1
characterized Subject ae having excellent contacts within
the DGI in Cuba. Subject is in contact with Mauricio

de la Selva Venegas, the Salvadoran intermediary, in
Wexieo City. In view of the above, Subject could be
expected to furnish considerable information on both the
PCES in El Salvador ‘and his activities for the DGI.

Current Location

Bubject was deported from El Salvador to Mexico in late
January 1964. On 16 June 1964 Subject was spotted by the
Salvadoran National Police in San Salvador, and is now
under surveillance, Exact address will be obtained by
the San Salvadoran Station.

Vulnerabilities

AMMUG/1 lists Subject as his lending candidate for recruit-
ment by us. His reasoning on this ig that Subject is not

> highly motivated, has # weakness for women and the easy

Iv.

life, and a generally weak nature. AMKUG/1 says that
Subject is very intelligent, but never showed a real desire
to learn during bis Cuban training. Subgect was given

600 dollars to purchase @ radio receiver upon his return
from Cuba, but he apparently spent the money on himself.

Family and Relatives

Pather (deceased) was U.S. citizen. One of Subject’s three
brothers fought for tae U.S. in Okinawa. A sister,
Margarita, 1@ Mexican citizen who now is in Cubaas a
student.



=2e i

Vv. Biographic Data

DOB: 14 May 1935

POB: San Salvador, El Salvador

Rationality: Salvadoran

Language Ability: Native Spanish; others not known
Physical Description; Height 1.68 meters; long thin
tact black eyes; two gold teech; thinlipped; black
hair parted on left side. H
Photo Available: Yes :

rational Leads and Lines to Subject for Recruitment
= Defection z

24 [o2b oe

Subject ove pursonaily by AMCC-2 and by (YORIN-1,

recently of(San Salvador Station] Subject 7
2.

is presently under surveilla: Police
Salvador (Station has’
no might be used as a lead into Subject).

VII.Bvaluation

From ANMUG-l's assessment of Subject, based on personal
knowledge and observation, it would appear that Subject
would not be a too difficult target to hit. However,

some of his personal characteristics which have made him
a handling problem for the DOI sould presumably meke him
@ handling problea for us. His failure to perform for
the DGI since October 1963 might mitigate against our

use of him which would Ancluce, presusably, resumption of
his s/w channel. Nonetheless, AMMUG-1'a claim that Subject
is a maber of the Central Couaittee of the PCES (nevs to
us) makea him an operutional target for that rengon alone.

fp


Target Analysis summary Report

SUBJECT: Joan Norbert s

I.

If.

Haith

ERO

Significance of Target
a) Comection «ita Cubsn Intellirence Service

At tnis time Subject is not an avent of the Cuban Intelligence
Service. fie 19 currently in Cubs see<ing assistance from the
BGI for the training of Haitisns in sverrilla warfare activities
for an eventual thrust against daiti to oust President

Francois iuVaLLba. 7

bv) Communist Party Affiliation

Secrotary-Qeneral of the Haitian Liberation Pront, a newly formed
party, witn tie ultiaate aim of merying tno two comunist parties
of Haiti, fTensitive inforzation available at the vec« indicates
that this party is Moscow influenced.7

) Infornation shich Subject Could Furnish

1. Subject could provide valuable infornation on the Haitian ©
Liberation Front, 1.e., its renders, plans, status witn the
Uss2/Cuba ete.

2. Information on the USE%/Cuba position with respect to ilaitl.

3. Inforasiien on U332/Cuba influence and penetrations of
Haitian exile circles.

1. Inforaation on Cuban'y relationsnip with trwsident
Yrancoia SUVALLiN. :

5. Information on Haitians now in Cubs and/or the USSR.

Qurreat Location

-As of April 1°SL he was Living at the Sotel Calina im Habana, Cuba.

iis permane:t residence is believed to be in Santo Donin,o, ‘doninican
Nepuhlic waera ne has been Ln extie.



ob

Int.

vw

Vil.

eins

Vulnerabilities (for recruitaent or éafeetioa)

Mone .ngm. 38 £5 stroazly anti-DWVALIcX. In tnat many aitisa .
exile circles a7 .somes-at dam on tro United States as a result

of the unsucecsstal Leptexber 17.3 invasion of saitt, it ts possible
that Subfect exrely turned to tha "left" for assistauco in overthrowing
SUVALIER. It 1 sowever quite feasitile tnat ho would cooperate wita
te United Staves if he felt we vere ta:ins an emti-JUVALIER stand.

Faxily and Xelattves

None -nown. .

Biojraahic Date

Tate of Birth: Yasnown
Place of Birth: witt (?)
Citizenshipt saitian
ze abilits: ative Frenca or Creole; very Little Spenish
L descriztion: .. feat tall
15 pounds
wears acustacho
wg
Fhotovraah is tot available
Uther pertine=t datat sane

fact for Reoruitsont or defeerion

Sperattonal iesds and Lines to

«) Caen J 7 ial

») Gaersa/. 4

) CQSA

F
discreet.

io 1 only in a position to aace
SS FOAPEEA. NOATSA.
- i

4) GDA co ta oniy in @ position to aace
Giccreet smeirles recanding WAL.

cwaluation :

2 naa teen cloaned frox the assets cilod tn 7f above
t's vulneraoility to recruitment Little can be dora.
pointed out in [Lf adove, {t i9 nichly probable tat
Ly turned to Cuba for asaistance in overterovin: rresident
af raiti.

|



>)

Subject 1s not subject to arrest when he returns to the
Dotinican Republic, unless af course, his activities with
the Cutans become mom, In any ‘event be definitely vould
not retum to Haiti, as he would fmmodiately be imariscnod
and ost probably tortarod and xillod.



\

Target Analysis Sunaary Report AMKUG/1 Operation

SUBJECT: Noel GUFREELO Santiago (201-1510) 1

Tl.

ut.

Significance of Target

GUBIERRO ie precently in Xexico and is “intermediary”
betwoen Cubsn IS and the FLN in Nicaragua. His Cuban
Intel pseudo is Andres Madariaga, AXaUG-1 saw hia in
Mexico in March 1564 regarding funds which the DG! had
provided the FLY. According to AWSUG-1 GULRKERO ie
involved in "Mlijos de la Tenpestad" which also involves
three or four other [CI agents. AKW~] also reported
that GUERRERO is in trouble with the FLN which claina

he spent soney improperly, ‘The FLN bes no confidence

in bin and considers hia cowardly and lacking ia
fighting spirit. by other sources he has been described
as one of the main Communists in Central Aserica. se
wes in Cuba in 1939 to get Cubes aid fromthe revolutionary
movement acainet Nicaragua. iv wee tormerly a wenver

of the Communist Party in exico., ve vas a cell leader
in Corinto and suviser to the .tevador's Union.

Current Location

He 19 presently is Mexico, tie was 4 political exile

in Honduraa in 1953. He has travelled extensively
throughout Central /merica aui miy bave been clancestinely
in Nicaragua ta July 1962.

Wulnerabilities (for recruitesnt or defection)

AMUUG=1; GUEKRERCG ig in trouble vith the FLN which claisa
be spent money faproperly., The FLii bas no confidence

in his, and considers him cowardly and lackiag in
fighting spirit. Among AUMiT~i docurnts 1a a criticue
of tho abortive tncursion in Nicaragua ia July 1063 by
Silvio Mayorgs and Urlando Quant Cuintana whlch piseos
GUPRARRO for ite failure, GUEZEFNO's owa account adalta
certain mistakes and tries to justify others. ‘owever,

{t must be borne in sind (bat GUERRERO ts a long tise



Tv.

v.

vr.

vil.

2

Cocmunist, anti-Somoza revolutionary.

Family and kelatives

Wife: Ofelia Chacon

Brothe: or, Eloy GUERRERO Santiago, suspected
Communist, says Koel is Comaunist. Eloy ts anti-
Sonoza, has spent time in jail.

Father: Jose ¥. GUkRRERD Castillo, resident of Leon
(DOI: 1955)

Personalis E i

12 April 1914

POX: Leon, Nicaragus

Nationality: Niceraguan

Laoguages: Spanish and bnglish

Religion: Profeeses none

Zducation: 2 courses first year lav

Photo; Availablo in Bio,raphic Register

Physics) description; 5'S', grey bair, dark brovn
eyua, complexton triguenocdaro (light brunette).'

Operational Leads anu Lines to Subject for secruttegat
or ierection

AWG-1 knows hin personally, was in contact with his
in Mexico La Mssch 1054.

Evaluation

- In 1942 or 1947 (reported both ways) CUERAYKO was expelled

from the “exican Communist Party (PQ!) according to
another monbor of the PC? (LIMUAN) who wae @ recruitment
candicate (uut dropsed), and who said that CUERRFLU aight
then be avenatle to recruitmeat. Azoareatly no attempt
was made to recruit hin, he hag been recorded throughout
the years since as an-active Communist revolutionary cod
waa exiled fron Hicaragua for revolutiosary activities

fo 1959, Also in-1959 he went to Cy bs and was active
there in preparing for the revolutionary; povenest ia 2
Latin America. so apparently was workicg for Cuban
at the time of tha alwartive revolutionary attempt apainst
Niearagua in 1963, av a document provided by AuHG-i



MOTT:

3.

written by Madariaga (GUFRRERO'S patedo) atteapte to
point out reasona for its fatlure. Another cogzent
written by Silvio Kayorgs and Orlando Cuant blamed
“andres” (GUERRERO) for ita fotlure. GUERWRO, Lowever,
must still be in the good graces of the Ceban 1S, if
he is an agent in the “hijos de la Tezpestad” sod
serves as “interseciary” to the FLY, or remnants which
may be reorganizing. It seers highly unlikely that
GUERRERO would be receptive to either recruitment or
defection. AMm#UG-1 knows him personally and met with
him in Kexico in Herch 1964. It woulé appoer. that
AMNUC-1 could furnish wore information about bis
contact with GUEXNIRO whieh would be helpful ia an
aseessnent of GIERZKRO.

‘There is a report thot GUERRERG wap in Nicerarua
ciandeatinely in 1962. He would undoubtecly be
arrested should be return there and bis presence
Giscovorec by the Aicaroguans.

‘Thin is vet a couplate target analysis and should not

bo used as euch.

