id tz 082
ian ae etest .

Chey WE

Basse SE RUMEN/ Operations :
ela Reception. end Dewiefing 7907 Vides 33-8,

Seta = SAF RA ESER

Ww

ACTION REQUIRED; For your intornation i

a 1. Tao recent Lifting of th
ee followed by @ reourytion of pave
“ it a resumption to coor degree of the
_recant crivis. Although thio flow vee raiply to

States ani Spain during ite heivat, 3
: other Cubans ae polities) ratins
Burcpe ami North Arica. Sows con
qnotallations royaruing the bane Sig
rogara to choooins Suropsan countries tone
a to inform you that Fock) thie Ve
and debriering vf Cuban renucede extot in Marth, Tae Sere
adnite Cuban refugeen into spain ofmpiy on the bask ot uhety Fe
and regardless of ‘their uocumentat 1a The refuses aos Lhy proce
vhere the rolloving facilities acc fousr:

mre

Faber. tate

2. The diepateb 1

a Weonsej9-Revolusiowe te,
te a Cubub refugee orennia

aK tions, which can provine frie .
refugeeg, and assiot then 29 Fiaioy jocs ie Spa!

, ds PouNEB rebetevian G2
ocreess tue FC: cn ao they
determined tc. be knowledgeable,

current intelli;ence on Cuba. «
with the knowledge et Spanien}

ye
srapetion.

Af

: ¢. The MRFINCH ¢
experience in proceaut
European Consulate, ou!

| expedite vieas for the Cuban vets



3
4
FY
%
ey

semua

careless st yore nee
ainee ete scam mies ale

MOR IM ge

3. Whew cages of-sirsidant Oitann com toy... res et
Feuented chat you NWaeels with ineal, I orrtotala
ide 8Pprorinte) on e8Ch Ladd vedial eves Servi "3 Ghat tiey
S¥e dewarving of racy, v statid, ph MP UBACTD or
COualerpartu Lint the FOE £9 peaeend to Spaio,
ere they wild int the y Mle reception. chy iid one :
of the roriuca appews ite BeReMTeL LOR dened. bay uy WI 1 iy
PNvestal that you ttest arid Sutton to the: 1 Gent, waxes vay
traaqportation to Satta, ood the pinee gut an OF epeetnt aretual, go
that a debriefing ain aeenibie, Galy ta

De Arzuniesdt ae Cutckly a
BINVE erudepmrte tt sn oy reluceee te

SXeertionnt enues vid son suns
SWatu at KUMKE expenne, a Bisuddent Cabuis at piety]: Thou wit geureally
SOUnsEY nese tp ctbh Guy.

PRE ERE Gt

ret,

WLLL be Gobrtaved in tng

ot Perth eke

;
|
i

Diatrivutioa; :

COS, mira j
cos,

COS, Trieste {

COS) Paris

COS; Brinsele

COB, Ancverp }
COS, The dugue

COS, Lo uton

i

