# 104-10308-10086

## Page 1

104-10308-10086

DISPATCH

Deputy Chief, WH/SA

CLASSIFICATION

S

1!

INFO

FROM

Chief of. Station, JMWAVE I

SUBJECT

RYBAT/TYPIC/AMWORLD/AMLILAC

Report on Activities of AMWORLD

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

ACTION REQUIRED: FYI

REFERENCE

NONE.

PRO

POSED

XX

PROCESSING

ACTION

MARKED FOR INDEXING

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED

HEADQUARTERS DESK

CAN JUDGE INDEXING

ABSTRACT

MICROFILM

ACCOM.

PLISHED

1. AMLILAC/33 obtained the following information from

IDEN A and IDEN B, former members of the AMWORLD Group. The

date of the information is mid-july 1964.

2.

IDEN A was an instructor in'

a commando section

headed by IDEN C, in a camp located near IDEN D. He was

given the job of

instruction in the AR-15 and AR-10 rifles.

Since no manuals were available he had to use the book,

Small Arms of the World.

The men in IDEN C's command

are

unhappy because they do not trust the planning judgement of

IDEN C.

The second in command, IDEN E, is so hated by

the

men that when IDEN C leaves the camp he has to take IDEN E

with him.

b.

The Intelligence, Chief of AMWORLD iS IDEN F. He

• maintains that the prerequisate for men in the INtEl section

is personal loyalty to AMBID Y/1.

At one time a PBPRIMER,

who works with AMBIDDY/1, pr sented IDEN E with a list of

men for duty in the Intel

section. IDEN F accepted the

list and the men but after the PBPRIMER left he transferred

the men to other sections.

Recently IDEN F arrested a man

in the Group and charged him as a spy for AMBANG/1. The

man was physically beaten and jailed. Later IDEN E admitted

ne made a mistake, released the man, gave him several hundre

and told him to forget the incident

CONTINUED

Attachment. U/S/C

3

cys, IDENS

Distribution:

Orig & 2 - AddressERtE U/S/C

ALASIFICATION

SECRET

DATE TYPED

3 Sept 64

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

UFGA-17603

HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBER

DATE DISPATCHED

S0P 1 0 1961

+19-124-27/4

---

## Page 2

13-00000

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

CLASSTFICATION

SECRET

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

UFGA-17603

c. The Navy section is composed of a Chief, IDEN G,

Chief of Operations, IDEN H, and Assistant Chief of Opera-

tions, IDEN I. The morale of the ship's crews is low and

many of them state that they will jump ship at the first

port of call.

A large powered barge is anchored at the Navy

Base and contains all

the arms, and ammunition.

There isa

staging base in IDEN J.

base of ships is being set up

in IDEN K along with an airstrip.

Teams for operations will

be flown to this base from IDEN J, go by ship on the opera-

tion, return to this base, and then fly back to IDEN J.

For operational briefings AMWORLD uSeS the same

photos KUBARK uses (The men who have worked for KUBARK and

AMWORLD are aware of this.).

e.

AMBIDDY/I spends most of his time flying around

Central America in a light plane. He has hired IDEN L, a

Free lance PBRUMEN photographer.

to, film the camps and

activities and to publicize AMWORLD.

f. IDEN M stated that AMBIDDY/1 acknowledged that he

planned one operation per month for the next 3 months and

then make an all out push with the guerrilla teams.

IDEN M

commented that if things did not improve AMWORLD would not

• be in existence 3 months from now.

g. AMWORLD has 3 large houses in the capital of IDEN J

for recreation. Small groups are escorted to these houses

from the camps. There is no limit to expenses for drinking

and eating.

h.

The chief engineer

the group is IDEN N. He is

in charge of building the airstrips.

The infiltration team with

the mission of assassin

ating AMTHUG/1 is headed by IDEN M. Date of the operation

is unknown.

i' is to!

ANDREW K. REUTEMAN

---

## Page 3

13-00000

IDEN A:

IDEN B:

IDEN C:

IDEN D:

IDEN E:

IDEN F:

IDEN G:

IDEN H:

IDEN I:

IDEN J:

IDEN K:

IDEN L:

IDEN M:

IDEN N:

SECRET

SEPARATE CQVER ATTACHMENT TO :

UFGA-17603, 3 September 1964

FNU

S

R

ET

---

