0219-10049

ace

i 7
CAGULEY TILECO, 16 SEIT ¢., 1245 wouRs. a

EN LATIN AA

x

S2 SEVERAL YEA’

SOURCE HAS TRAVELED To CUDA TH

HES IN 1899 AND YAS IN Touch

HE IS A PERSCUA

FRIEND GF i



freccaies Tet

LE Zee i

REPOUTED DACK Gn

SHEIS Ly
LOT SNOUT COVENT OPERATIONS IN CUBA. MARSCRIE

acconnmss TO

ICI AS spEtye

INSLATY!

WY SFCAN TOO MUCH.

Boh (Ine

% HART
SEPT 1S75

oSOnY SELA OSA NOT Oley Us

“

COPLES Fee
re tage

19724



t
i
rf



BECKET
a

O5tu'
2268
OUFIBE
5 pEc 67

© ns pote-mns case nas Exes Im CLOSED STATUE FoR Box TOG. IF
Wi REOPENND URIEVLY 9 SERVICE REQEBT YROM Do/I FOR CURRIN ANDES FER

REFURCES . Bid UW YOUR RECORDS DO BOT REFLUCT CLOSED STATUB, PLEASE

CLOSED CABE 48248 - VIOLA JUNE COED
ADIGE ACCORDIEDLY, HAUSE,

ms

FROM 058 (5JSULIN)

-SBCREE



soe.)

SECRET B47a2d CITE couracrs{ | $242

CONTACTS WASHINGTON
OPERATIONAL SUPPORT STAFF (HUSULIN) FROM
CaSE 48246 ~ VIOLA JUNE COBB
‘Fe YOU HAY RECALL SUBJECT ONCE WAS DD/P “PROPERTY™.
@e DOASY BASE HAS NOW CONTACTED US TO FIND OUT SuBYECT °S

BLHIS> > p 2g

CURRENT ADDKESS AWD RESUHE DIRECT DEALINGS WITH HER«

Se WE SEE NO BASIS FOR JOINT ENDEAVOR HERE, GLADLY YIELD
TO BODS INTEREST. .

4e MAY WE CLOSE THIS CASE?
SECRET



Bi 490

£3, HE 52 |

SECRET 1816?¢2 CITE contacts[ are
CONTACTS/VASHINSTON 4
ULIN) FRO™ ELLIFF Sieeeeee
CASE VIOLA JUNE COR :

ess CM

NEV YORK, 19022, FYI -= YOU MAY YISH TO MAXE A NOTE
THAT HE® CURRENT ADDRESS IS 342 EAST 55TH STREET, APT.5D
TELEPHONE, EL 5-6861, (SHE DOES NOT WaNT MAIL SENT
TO THIS ADDRESS, HOWEVER, AND PREFERS TO RECEIVE
MAIL aT THE SBTH STREET ADDRESS.)

SECRET wet!

i Eng



G8¥usulin/tm

2268 SECRET
ROUYIEE
18 Oc¥ 67 1030 2 a PO185 :

sini id

ELIV? FRG 088 (MUSULIN)
CLOSED CASE 48,248 - VIOLA JUIE COBB

PLEASE CHECK TO COHFIRM SULJECT'S CURRENT NEW YORK ADDRESS, FIBARCE
DIVISION OWES HER BOME MONEY AND WOULD LIKE TO FORWARD HER A CHECK. TWX

REPLY ASAP,
i j
“4
be ”
‘ iy
' = |
ia -
3
|
a i



erro tone no 18 ~ - ~
UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum — SEGRE i

TO : DCS/oss pate: 17 October 1967

!
|
‘
|

From : Chief, DO/DCSL
susject:; June Cobb

eee | DO/I, called to see if DCS might have subject's
current Ne address. Finance Division owes her some money and
would like to forward her a check.

DO/DCSL's log book reflects info on subject fwd DO/I/WH|
under date of 7 August, CDS Case 48482 and B67-166. However,
rst name was Viola June Cobb. RV ig

arts Am

GROUP T

Exchaded from c.tomatic
acing end

declessili=ation

uae



ig

ne SECEET ~

7 1 Director : 4h
{ Yedoral Bureau of Investigatiea H

Attestioas br. B. J. Papich i
FEOu 3 Depaty Director Fer Plans

SUBJECT: Joha OATIZ
INTERRAL BECURITY-COBS

1. Reference ta mide te your informal request cated
Aprih 28, 1927, filer (LA) 108-165206, subjent av akeve
and te this Offies's CSCI 316/01356S-0 dated 35 Karen 1966.

2. Thie is to advise you that this Office no langer
bas contact eith the gcurce wko originally furnished the
information coneeruing Letelle SOKOLUTAKA de NADRIGAL in 7
Harck 1966. Source ie currently reaiding im tho Cuited : ‘
i States, Rew York City, esd we have eo vbjectioa to your ;
i contesting the source Gad cobriefing ber comeerning any
questions yot-may have conceraing this case. Source bas
been alerted to the fact that you might contect hor regaré-
1 feg thie mtter. feurce ig Viele June COBB, uerally referred
to 36 June COLES, the is sentioned is your informal asucrandua
te this office dated dune 1, 1864, Gubjects Lyle Stuart.

3. We would eppreciate being apprised ef any ecw
information concerning the SUKOLOTSEA case that is surfaced
68 @ result ef your debriefing COBB.

€8CT-316/02330-87 He ‘|

19 may 1987
BDF/BB/00G/CICS| Pile: 201-273961 ee ya



t a
: = :
SECRET
t im
i f
: a

SECRET 1813192 CITE CONTACTS ErrRy =

=
CONTACTS/WASHINGTON

OPERATIONAL SUPPORT STAFF CHUSULIN) FROH REAL FOR ELLIFF
SUBJECT! CLOSED QASE 48,248 + MISS VIOLA JUKE COBB
REFs WA 76715

MISS COBB HAS CONSENTED TO F&I INTERVIEY AND WILL COOPERATE

FULLY6°NO FURTHER ACTION CONTEMPLATED HERES > :
i ee H
(ong Eecin oct Cha ‘

BT :

SU7 SECRET
wii [caren ly

5
t
‘
i
i
n
}

aw yee



Sees

nl

i GEORGES 8. KUSULIN: y3 i
2268 SECRE® {

i

|

ROUTIER

27 way 1967 1500 1 1 1611s H

oomion|_—] |

GROUP OME EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC DOVBORADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

RLLIVY yroe O88 (MUSULTH) :
Los Ase M8240 ~ Mas VIOLA JURE CORD
a

/ Se
MADRIGAL HEE SOKOLOWSSA, ULB, CITIZEN, (COBB HAS REPORTED OH MADAME DE 2 :
MADRIGAL TO AGENCY IN THR PAST. FRI DESIRES TO DEVELOP SOME INFORMATION OF
DE HADRIGAL'S ACTIVITIES AND CERTAIN INDIVIDUALS WHO WERB KHOWN TO HAVE CORLACT
WITH DEMADHIGAL. WE HAVE HQ OBJECTION 10 Did BUREAU'S APPHOACH AND TRUST MISS:
COER WILL CONSENT TO SHE INTERVIEW AND OFFER PULL COOPRAITON. WOULD APPRECIATE |

REPLY ASAP.

Winget y CVRR

BECRET



SSHUSULIN/ js

SECRET
2268
‘ROUTINE +
Shab
20 April 1967 1000 iy 1

Contacts

ELLIFP FROM OSS (MUSULIN)

CLOSED CASE 48243 ~ MISS VIOLA JUNE COBB
+90
REF1 ELLIPF/MUSULIN TELECONS 17-19 APRIL Bogs

THIS CONFIRMS REFERENCE REGARDING COBB'S QUERY ABOUT 1966 TAXES, SORRY
TO KEEP YOU WAITING SINCE WE COULD NOT LOCATE ANYONE WHO COULD GIVE US A
ERKRS READY ANSWER TO MEET TAX DEADLINE.

HEL/HEXICO, ADVISED
THAT COBB HAS BEEN ASSESSED POR HER 1966 AGENCY EARNINGS, HER TAX OBLIGATION HAS

BEEN SATISFIED AND SIE NEED NOT REPEAT NOT REPORT ANYTHING REGARDING AGENCY

INCOME POR 1966, IN FACT THEY INSIST THAT SHE MAKE NO REFERENCE TO AGENCY, 1966
EARNINGS AT ALL,

PLEASE SEND US COPY OF HER FOR! 1040 PILED WITH INTERNAL REVENUE FOR RECORDS

_ PURPOSES AND TO PROVIDE BACKSTOPPING IN THE EVENT ‘THAT ANY QUESTION EVER COMES

UP ABOUT HIER 1966 (AGENCY) INCOME,

kee) Oey

SECRET



i
}
i
{
|
|
|
|
i

SECRET 1122042 CITE contacts 7aat

CONTACTS AZASHINGTON
OSS (USULIN) FRON ELLIFF
SUBJECT 2 CASE 48,248
DO YOU WISH TO CLOSE THIS CASE? HISS COBB DID CALL IN
HID NOVEMBER AND AN APPOINTHENT WAS NADE FOR HER TO CORE TO THIS

planet wat

OFFICE. SWE LATER CANCELLED THE APPOINTKENT AND WE HAVE NOT HEAKD FROS

WER SINCE THAT TIME.
SECRET Y07,
BT

ce.

Chose Ase

J


Si

Chief, Hew York Field Office 29 August 1966

Director, Dorestis Contact Service (088)

Bow Cone L823 - Kies Viola June Cobb“ Ropart of Posetbio
Contact and Request to Interview. z

1, This te nev cage opened to your office. M

2. Attacked copy of Chief, UE/Divieion nezorandua
dated 22 August 1956, te celf-explanstory. Should Kisa
Cobb contact your office, please take appropriate atapa
to interview her in line with the cuggested eecion ine” ~
Gieated in pera (4) of attached request,

Ld

Gtueulin/es
ee: Services Biv. (Control)

Attachment

HA



wn
Pie
ra)
Fs)
mm
4

MEMORANDUM FOR: Domestic Overations/Wi

: Director, Domestic Contacts Service

SUBJECT : Miss Vicla June Cobb, bora] Ponca,
Oklahoma

1. On 22 or 23 Serterker 1965 Miss June Cobb contacted the :
atic Contacts Office through Ino, ch of the Vision \

ine, tryin; to establish contact in —«9* CIA te pass :
wlon-. some information. ¥ii/1 chose not to establish contact with
Hise Cobb at that time, cven though ohe was cleared CIA agent in i
contect with the Mexico City Station. ae

Recent Developments:

2. Miss Cobb was terminated effective 1 July 1966 avd vas paid : |
her salary through 30 June and given money for one-way air fare to .
lev York City. She was conpletely satisfied with the financial terns |
of the scttlenent and signed 2 Termination Secrecy Oath. Although she ty

was terninated for lack cf a:c2ss and production, there was also
consideratie newspaper publicity in May 1966 in the Mexico City neve-
papers wherein Subject was attacked because of her connection with an }
anti-Communist meeting, the Latin Arerican Conference to Study the i |
Situation of the Jewish Minority in the Soviet Union. In this pub- at
° licity Subject vas labeled as being closely connected with U. 3. 5
Goverment Police, and also as an agent of the FBI and INTERPOL. She i
was also accused cf working for a nevspapermen Daniel Janes who was i
described as being responsible to CIA.

3. Miss Cobb planned to return to New York in July where she was

to look for a job. Subject had been told previously by the Mexico

City Station that the telephone mumber of the New York CIA office is Usted
in the directory end she could call that office if contact were necessary
while she wa; in the United States, but that she should only establish
contact for an important or urgent matter. Since Miss Cobb tends to



“SECRET

Liberally apply importance to a wide variety of events and subjects, and
Since she te iixely to be short of money shortly after arriving, WZ
Division believes there is a possibility che may try to establish
contact.

Suggested Action:

4, Wil Division suggests that you may wish to forvard a cory of this
renorandum to your ew York office. If Miss Cobb does establish centact,
ve would appreciate your cffice interviewing her to accept viatever
information cle aight wich to contribute, but that no financial

commitments be made on our behalf. Wi Divicicn plans to have no direct
contact unless the information provided would apear to merit 2 cpecial
interview.

Western berisphere Division

SECRET

