# 104-10185-10179

## Page 1

104-10185-10179

NORMATION REPORT

INFORMATTONAREPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

L.D.3C. Beca. 103 and 704, the tiranianion ot retriatiod 1

SECRET

NO

FOREIGN DISSEY

COUNTRY Cuba

SUBJECT Angelito (LNU)

REPORT NO.

DATE DISTR

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Oniy

CS C1-316/0223-491 Reproduce

1 June 1965

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

CS-311/00115-64

(page 10)

8 July 1964

DATE C

1964

INFO.

PLACE &

Washington, D. C.

DATE ACQ. (February 1985)

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION: SOUICE GRADINGS ARE DEFINTIVE APPRAISAL OP CONTENT IS TENTATIVE

SOURCE: A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence.

Service until April 1964.

Headquarters Comments

The following report is one of a series containing personality

information provided by the source

information fron the records of this Agency.

and includes supplemental

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any of

the individuals mentioned in the personality reports without

first checking with this Agency.

Angelito (LNU) 1g, according to Source, a Spaniard. His name

has appeared on documents trom the Departamento Escuelas

Especiales (Department of Special Schools • FE) of the

Direccion General de Inteligencia (General Directorate of

Intelligence • DGI concerning reports on students.

He may

nave been instructine Guatemalan guerrillas.

1. Headquarters Comment.

The records of this Agency reveal no

Identifiable information on Angelito (LNU).

5

4/pV

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

CADUE I

REPC INCLANT

CINCSO #

"Note: Field distribution indicated by "#"-)

I NAW

I&NS

1 AIR

INSA

1X6

1 OCR

SHA THAN THEY

IFBI

VINFORMATION RERORT.

#INFORMATION REPORT

WE/S/R

AHC/TO

WE/MADR /

CI/R&:A

MTEL

LX-2423

WHC/RE

L/WASH

NP . (AMMUG--1)

CSCI-316/02285-

WHC/OS

5

RID/AN

65

WHC/WAVE

COORDIMATING BEGE

TOTALS WHC 8 (1), WE 1 (1), CIA,

RID 1

LIAISON M

ieb

/R&A

19-5-1

---

