# 104-10185-10124

## Page 1

104-10185-10124

CENTRAL INTELUCENCE AGENCY.

COUNTRY Cuba

suascT Oscar GARCIA

NO FORLIGN DESSE

REPORT NOi

DATE DISTR

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

CS CX-316/00081-63

12 Austet 1964m

20.

CS:311/00115-64

DATE OF

1964;

INFO

PLACE &

Washington, D.C

DATÉ ACC. AUgUS

2964

FIELD REPORT. NO.

SOURCE:

formor Cuban IS officer co served with the Cuban

Intelligence Service until April'1964

Headquartors Comments.

The folloving report is one of s serios containing personality!

infornation provided by the

and includes supplemental

infornation

from tho records o'chis agercy.

It 25 requested tha, the iddressees sake no action on any

of the dadividuals.dn.go.0d

in she personality coperts

•1.

Oscar!CAsCiA, pseudonyn"

borlando," as assigned tu che

Departanento Liberacion Nacior i

(ational Liberation

Department. INj in the Direccion General de Inteligencia

(General Directornte of Intelligence - DGI) as a desk officer

in charge of operations in costa. Rica.: Prior to this

assignent, CARCIA was an instructor in secret iriting and i

codes and ciphers an the Depairsent of Technical Operat10na1

Support: (NI) 1n. the DüT.

In approxinatoly February 1964

GARCIA was transfeired from the lT Departmont because of a:

dispute nich cho devartnen: chies, Guillerio ARASTAGUIS,.

pseudonym "Rene." Although it is cor certain, it is

that CARCIA vorked 2or ube, Departmento de Seguridad

del Estado (Departnent of Saze Security: - DSE) prlor to the

time he began working for the Del.

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only.

Do Not Reproduce

esterol 690-0

OCR

FBI 2

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

I A1R

I NiSa

STATE

014

AdAY

RES

CINCLANT

•(ola: Finlal distribution indicefend by 1m10)

I NAVY

_CINCSO =

MAT KN

RE902

1A/.063

I SA/MOB.

XE/LADR

07

BRE

EZ/SA/CI

TOTALS

KH/SA 7

(1), HEL

(2), Ci 4,

RID 1

Manu sin

LX-1633

NO PROJECT.

(ANNL0-1)

CSCI:310/00651-3

CODINATINE NCLEAN

LIAISON I

---

## Page 2

5430 45

NO FORSION DISSES

in anpersiately 1040, 16 five feet eigat

a strong: bufld

svarthy

mates Connent.

The records of this Agency revent no identifiable

Intornation 'on GARCIA.

NO

FOREIGN DISSEL

---

