04-10172-10821

7) CO ONTERNAL

ta UNCLASSIFIED aitce aa aren

-——

4

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

RETURN To Gia
ar

lackground Use “Only
Nae Reproduca

SECRET

{] CONE ENTIAL

FROM:

Latin ap Lye

TO, (O@cer dosiguatan, roam aveber, ond
welengt

LM -/ ce |

- va
| leetSccay

ane] frre 5

i

i

ero transferring perzanent
rge of file to thea =

7.
a
%
F 10.
1.
7
3.
ic

~

UY:

ote as O10 “torncns”” (] SECRET

(leomrivennae RM) excuassieten


‘

: \
7
,
/

Ala

Chef, ws

GLaf of Station,

ol (Caccucpse ‘al |

HBDCAL = Rel

ACTICR, For inforuatle

1. On 22 January! be

CF7ab and biiel3025 ant
However, during tha, cor te
just tbe day before Sri 4
RI3 officer) called hu x ’
to timal\ [¥cc1ne/l) 9 i]
wanted tc Tiprosa iv :
certain things evel th
putting this point acr :

a. tie knows | 22
214, 21 Septorver 195
are in daaparanta, Fy
documents and mows th
paranta, |

be An anerié_
said, hile he was drunky” Unay—wie pr
(probably Rimar ferston NS5TEIY AG) Le 143 friend an
keeping track of tis Soviets in Nwlainid.

8. lie knows that there was a seating of Scandinavian
Security chiefs in .olsinkd in Kovamber acai that THULIN (Sweden),
JS:3iM (Denzark) end the Norwogian chief attended. Gsccrns Al) cata ,
this was ao)

4. Tho marion military has 15 persons wri g for then fa
Natainkt althou,n only 7 appear in the Corps Jiplesatique,
Cal. Bjork, the Ameriesn military attache, is the man
whe calle the sncts for azerie:n essdonage in Finland.

is tie joo-of

2, As [VACLINC/\ rentioned each iten, we talked alout thea, On
(a) arantey Seed (WGI /Wineteer ta intended to tip off the swedess
Ko said be certainly did intend to because it ap;axrs that the Joviets
Rave an arant in Hasparanta, legarding item (t) Gili had automatically
eliminated Capt. Felix Jaehanen wno.is the only min of ttat rank here
ho opoars Swedian well enougn to omverse with siifat! ct, (wiGTSAbERG
speaxs only Finnish and Swedish,, CapNuetia render_the only other
Gaptata aeaxs naither Fimiar nor jvediah, (TaOc1H5/) sate he nad asked

at


FAK

MSITSANGG wether_ne had any tcerivin frieds ani the latter asid that

te did not. heb fess RS] reared, "1 feel cutie tat ay nen

wald tell mo if uy had Ghy vaster contacts, tut Wis is a free

country art 1 tuld QL! 80, GLb waa scumcat acryrised breause be

thoucht any such contact would haw to be arproved in advances stil

Ita pret mould know if ny men were engaged in any sLady gon

tacts connents =: fave oosidered ie possitility that

LB way Rava gotten win! of wef vVaksucy: fest SoVitocas ater i

ip and Us is his way of tzying ts put tre point acre thd Waccina/l) 0

wdthout teing sore specific. <eintund te tania VeaCY) wp

adowly with (VACCINS/4, : > : :
pre oe +

Q
Je In taledrg about ites (¢), [Fic GS/l) sald ALS had asked
wether he knew the o-:or Seancina entefe wall, 0 tats (¥accixs/i {)]
hed re, lied, “Of course” ani added that Seas cow thes fo: ‘1S yoorss
Of (WACIRSA) went on to say tbat Last spring vem sovise officials in Fine
ad werd recsivin: NTS Literature via tSa ails from Sweden, OLiUa had
wore to Nia aked whether he could do saytaiag with the Jwedss about
stopping 1t0\(VaC.i.c/I]AN8 revdied he etgrt try. Wis row roturred

ame een oo

)

uo, te this subject and r Forced the mailings 2a eased, be 3
, Cc) ol WisciNs/llahd talked to anyon in Sweden about the oattar
AS Fesvonded that he hadj in fact he iad talaed to tve paras

waa profuse in his thanks and sald teat it Ls a grout step Zor his
earesr that be will be able to report to kcacow that ie has sasuch Lene

fluences with [VATWi/L}to gst 4 job Like tals baken care of. Also,
ralated to Hramiey wiih a lags, it will mise

GLU added Bt aA TS
(Bema Jhiwh level of estees in hoscows

DLS ve fatled to mation the’, at one pict in te tell FasciA\
eaid ho took GULUB to tasx for Saving interests rot cocsistant witha 1
@iplomt's job. "Are you," hr sald, *the Licest Lireilizence officer

a the Soviet Inion tas in Finland?" GLi protested that sie intervate +

wore y diploaatic ani that ho had no ether than reveal oo:oular

A duties) (vaccts Al] anfledind said to Brasley, “f course, tat fa
walonsy*

Free translational ). is

Se Ba an additional coment to the acversaticn ca the NT3 matter,
LUB appeared highly pleased ard remraed ts ‘oscor ied meantly told
hin that nls reporting was far tetter tran arytiiag wll .T<i had done.

“~D)
ek :

Hensesz  danwry 1958

t
OH ctrittion:

5-53

yl6R
