# 104-10182-10026

## Page 1

104-10182-10026

"В».

it Tent a Promous Periona

TONY

= YES CHO

I HIS TO FILE NO -

FROM PANAVE

ACON

IW

NO

_CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

ESSECRET

HIT 10 ARANCH C

ESTBOT 5 3A

#85 1 09

ROINE

XI RID COPY

9/0, FIT 6,

SECRET 1223574,6-7

$208Z 12 AUG 65

IN 31368

. DIR INFO LANT PACY BARR CITE WAVE 4916

INTEL TYPIC

SUPDATAS AMOT-84 IN AMOT REPORT DO-1558, DATED 5 AUG 65, FROM

AMLINT-I WHO VISITED DOCKS, PARA 3 BASED ON UFS-74526

RID INDEX. FILES 122357Z

REPORT CLASS CONFIDENTIAL CONTROLLED DISSEM COUNTRY: CUBA

SUSU: POSSIBLE USE DY THE ELSAN REPRESENTATION IN EXILE (RECE) OF

THE •OTOR VESSEL FL-577-F IN ACTIVITY AGAINST CURA

D01: 29 JULY 1965, PADA: INITED STATES, MIAMI (9 AUGUST 1965)

UF6-74546

SCURICE:

A MENSER CF A GROLO OF CUEAN EMIGRES TRAINED IN THE TECH-

NIQUES OF INFORMATION COLLECTION. THE GROUP MAS PROVIDED USEFUL

REPERTS SINCE 1961.

MY COMMONT.

).

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

HA/C

HELLADIMA

TDs 08-31519269755

TROUTINE

BASED ON

Кака

Tille an

I DATE DISTRIBUTED

13 AUGUST 1955

14572

SECRET

$76j07

8264.069 1. I

DO TO 1 AI1000 AIE56

D55:+0505ATA

REPRODUCTION EY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMINTED

7F6-7454.

tp: 440T-84

Copy tha

Vpv

---

## Page 2

(81-899098+56,

08 8 19-88

CONFIDENTIAL

CENTICUED DISSEM

• ROUTINE

COUNTIY

DATE OF

INPO.

CENTRAI INTELLIO INCE AGINCY

Intelligence Information Cable

CUBA

29 JULY 1965

TDCS D8-?15/02690-65

DISTR. 83 ALGUST 1965

POSSIBLE USE BY ME CUBAN REPRESENTATION IN EXILE

(RECE) OF THE MOTOR VESSEL FL-8473-F IN ACTIVITY

AGAINST CUBA.

UNITED STATES, MIAMI (9 AUGUST 1965)

PLACE A

DATE ACO.

AND

APPRAJSALI

TOCSO8-315/02681-631 368

FIELD REPORT NO. UFG-7454.

A MEMBER OF A GROUP OF CURAN EMIGRES TRAINED IN THE TEONQUES OF

INFORMATION COLLECTION, THE GEQUE MAS PROVIDEO USEFUL READETS SINCE

1961.

!. ON 29 JULY 1965 THE PEOREEITAGION GUSANA A EL EXILIO

(RECE, CUBAN REPRESENTATION IN EXILE) HAD A E5-TOCT BOAT, WHICH WAS

EQUIPPED WITH IN: 155-HORSEPOWER MERCURY ENGINES, AT THE DOCKS AT

288 NA NORTH RIVER DRIVE, MIAMI, FLORIDA, THE SUAT HAS DATATED DARR

GREEN, CARRIED FLORIDA REGISTRATI ELAD: 77-5, AND WAS ALIEST READY

FOR USE IN DERATIONS AGAINST CUBA, CARLOS ZAPPAGE MARTINEZ AND

AUGUSTO "POLO" VALDES MIRANDA HERE UNDERSTOOD TO DE VISITINO THE

CITE DAILY, (SOURCE COMMENT: VALDES FORMERLY NANADED THE MATUEY

BREWERY IN MAÑACAS, LAS VILLAS PREVINGE, A FIRM CNNER BY JOSH. M.

CONFIDENTIAL

ARATIACS MANT

• CONTRELLLD OSSIE

JI ONI OCE

---

## Page 3

14-00000

108.421

151138

CONFIDENTIAL

COSCH LAVARGUE, DE-THE LACAO INDUSTRO, DiD: THE AGANSO FALSEYE)

2. OURING ONE OF THEIR VISITS TO THE OCCRE CAPRAGE AND VALDES

ALLEGEDLY WERE HEARO SAYINO, "WE ARE SCIN TO FOOL THE "GRINGOS"

• BECAUSE THEY DO NOT EVEN ERLAY THAT WE ARE READY TO FIGHT FOR CUBA."

ZARRAGA AND VALDES WERE ALSO SAID TO HAVE MADE THE FOLLOWING STATE-

MENT IN THE PRESENCE OF THE DOCK MANAGER AND OF THE CREW OF THE

FL-E477-F: "WE GIVE NOTICE TO THOSE WHO APE CONNECTED WITH THE

"GRINGOS" THAT SOME DA, WE SHALL MAKE WAR ON CASTRO FROM CENTRAL

AMERICA."

S. (FIELD COMMENT: ANOTHER SOUPCE REPORTED THAT CIA 1E AUGUST

CALANDO ROSCH AVILA, HEAD OF THE MOVIMENTO INDIRRECTIONAL DE

RECUPERACION REVOLUCIDEDIA CURE, INSURORGTILAL MOVEREIT FOR

REVELUTIINARY RECOVERY, MCG DANG THINE AN ERGENTIFIED

MERCHANT VESOSE IN JANSCEE, ME ADE EE PEE GUL'ST MUO THAT

HIS GROUP HAD BEEN CANTEO DFRVISSIUN TO USE A TET HOLONGING SO

AUGUSTE "POLO" VALCEO CRANE, VALDES WAS BELIGURE GE GE INVOLVED IN

THE OPERATION.)

%. FIELD DISSEM: CINCLANT, CINGSO, COMANECTER, MIAMI REPS OF

STATE, FAl, CUSTOMS, DENO, MONDER PATROL, ANS 1503.

END OF MESSA:E

CONFIDENTIAL

Ma did onsig

---

