roa-t0764-(0082)..

r
00 owaassifie OP CO comecwtia =. () seceet

8 oormemuney ann ora a
SAE eres tat wea Tea i ean ae

_O conmicearias O BRS 0 uscwassivize

co



13 Fea 1359

Directar
Federal aurem of Investigation
Attention: Mr. 3. J. rapieh

YE ts Deputy Directer, Plans
SuBseCT Melle Blooty morris LoGR (4 /—/772.3/ )

been reesived
029

Hoverber 1958 Rollie BLOCK (bora 6 Sovenber 192)--in
of American passport Bo. 116708, left Schiphol

on a KIM flight bound. for. Hoscow via Warsaw. -

her. ehila Johanna Horris BLOCK, born in 1950, whe

Vroty te one als eatoite tie eon
Planned to fly te Moscow on 2 it. Ef
‘postpuned by the cireumstences outlined below?” “#P



Deunark Dl via Lastrep Airport 15-10-1957
WT via Khastrup Airport 1691021957

BLOCK stated to the Duteh passport control officer that be had
Nieited the USSR 25 July 1957 © 15 (otober 1957 an a delegate to the
Vorld Youth Festival neld in Moweay in 1957. LOCK stated it was hig

ee Menbarship book for District 65, Retell, Wholesale,
Dopertmant Store Union, AFI~C10, 13 Astor Flase, Mew Tork %
ef number refed 9 pada viens Be a9sa
up.
+ Ee edditdon, he carried a District 65, ALACIO tplee eg
' @adde giving a registration date of 29 July 1958,
"Be Mrth certificate No. 1:62, tseued by State of Za
Toots cevtitying the birth of Morrie Mock on 3 Marah 1930,

*. @o Teo letting cards oa wileh weves SW 3$4L3 and 6B SOsh.

& 4 gnall pin with the legend “VIth Werld Festival of Youth
Gredeuts Keseow 1957") , :

Go fv visiting carde, on which weres :
SECRET,



noe Sion

Stanley PATLOOR, Counselor et Las, 9 Kart hOth .itreet,

Mew Yerk.16, Lexington 2-7760, Manter 7-093 was written
on this,

Stella ELIASHON, Renedial Reading, Engifsh Tutoring, ca
56 Seventh Averue, New York i, Mew Tork,

eater BLOCK alee threv aray a used plece-ef carbon peper hich he
7 @eriously did not want to have with him cr hig setumn:to the Wd. The
Garton read ae follows:

ELoce? :
United Air ticket 16?.2.36h2  § 54.90
la ‘Oasrdie-Claveland-Le Quardia = 10% tax Ext

RLGERE
‘United Air tleket 162.2.%1)25.

