# 104-10119-10281

## Page 1

104101910281).

SECHET

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, CA Staff

FROM

& Deputy rector of security (Investigations

and Operational Support)

SUBJECT

JOHNSON, Priscilla Mary Post

#T1 589

1. Reference is made to your memorandum dated 25 May 1962,

requesting a Proprietary Approval for utilization of Subject as :

News Editor and Writer for a DILEAFAGE subsidized publication undes

Project (QKDPPRA. Further reference is made to our memorandum dated

2. The latter referenced memorandun requested that your office

provide the Security Office with up-to date bio data on Subject, with

particular reference to the period since 1959. It was further pointed

out that Subject has been residing in Europe for the last few years,

and for that reason, the results of appropriate field traces were

requested.

3. To date, there is no record in Subject's file that this

information has been provided by your office. It is requested that

you advise whether Subject is still of interest to your office. If

Subject still is of interest to you, it is again requested that the

necessary information previously referred to be furnished as soon as

possible.

4. Processing of this case has been, and is being, held in

abeyance pending a receipt of your answer

and up-to-date information.

FOR THE DIPECTOR OF SECURITY:

Victor

• R. White

FENDING DEFERRED

inge

18 October 1962

SEGRET

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

Excluded tren 20t: ac...

2920124

---

