# 104-10142-10366

## Page 1

104-10142-10366

CONFIRENTIAL

'INTERNAL USE ONLY

JOURNAL

Chrono

HSC

Rexic at tig

OFFICE OF LEGISIATIVE COUNSEL

Friday - 9 December 1977

1. (Unclassified - ME) LIAISON I responded to a call received

last evening and discussed with Ms. Ryan Conroy, in the office of

Senator Alan Cranston (D., Calif.), the FOlA request from constituent,

Donald J. Hume. The Senator's office has received another letter

•from Mi. Hume asking for his help in persuading CIA to waive fees.

Ms. Conroy asked for a copy of our letter to Mr. Hume concerning

this subject and she will reply directly to Mr. Hume.

2. (Confidential - PG) LJAISON Together with Lyle Miller,

Deputy Legislative Counsel, and Ray Hart, OS, visited Leon Jaworski,

Special Counsel, House Committee on Standards of Official Conduct,

in his law offices. The purpose of our call was to give Mi. Jaworski

& compartmented briefing for access to SI material.. Mr. Jaworski

proved to be a cooperative briefee and an excellent raconteur.

3. (Unclassified - RSG) LIAISON Pat Orr, Betay Palmer, Edwin

Loper, Gaeton Fonzi, Gary Cornwall, G. Robert Blakey, all membere

of the House Select Committee Of Assasainations staff, visited the Agency

to review several documents: Cuban Counter-Revolutionary Handbook,

Bayo-Pawley Affair, William Pawley, Frank Sturgis, sanitized IG Report

on Book V. Notes were taken on the Cuban Revolutionary Handbook,

classified, sanitized, and couriered to the Committee offices.. Other

notes for Pat Orr were retained until Monday.

* (Unclassified - RSG) LIAISON Took a call from Danny Coulson,

FBI General Counsel Office, who informed me that he had a "Cuban

Counter-Revolutionary Handbook'' in his possession which appeared to

be CIA -originated. He couriered the Book to me for disposition

and will follow with a cover memorandum.

5.. (Internal Use Only - PG) LIAISON Dan Swellinger, Deputy

Special Counsel, Senate Select Committee on Ethics, and three staff

researchers made their first visit to Headguarters to review files.

MI®

formerly Chief EA/JK Branch and Deputy Chief

of Station in

provided a briefing on the KCIA and orientation into

CIA files. The remainder of the afternoon was spent in file review.

CONFIDZNTIAL

19943

INTERNAL USE ONLY

• 40

---

