# 104-10054-10109

## Page 1

104-10054-10109

cr

0329

Inside Washington.

VÖcL 64

CIA Withheld Vital Intelligence From War ren Commission

By ROBERT S. ALLEN

cials who actlvely oppose

on has yet to

be

used

dismissal of such persons

And PAUL SCOTT

• Soviet

agalnst

any

ilquid or compressed

for security

reasons re

Weste

from public office, at oth

form.

The gas

port

CIA Director

•Soviet Straleric

orn offici

of

er

even having'

within seconds

fatal

dnd

that

an

John McCone made

no

WASHINGTON, Oct. 20.

Exccutive

-The Central Intelli

Aetion,"

dreds

times

the

KGB agen

artly.

0j-

them eliminated' physi

aulopsy would not reveal

mention of this explosive

suppressed

CIA

docu.

craling outside

Russia

Non trace able

document in his secret

genee

Agency

withheld

ment went Into the shock-

have becn

suppled

cally.

use.

with

"Such

activities

are

poisons have been report-

vital

intelligence

infor

ing delails of how agents

testimony

before

the

this

pock at

gun,

i known to be undertaken

from

the

ed which do not take cf.

Warren Commission.

I11ali011

Warren

of KGB, the Soviet sccret

awaiting

rders

against other

types of

fect

until several

hours

While McCone furnish-

Commission during its in-

police, are trained to do

from Moscow

it.

persons in the West, not..

after being administered,

vestigation of the

assas-

away with Western lead-

• The

sination

ably

defectors from the

thus allowing an assassin

ed the commission with

of

President

Kennedy.

ers, including officials in

U.S.S.R.

the CIA's secret

surveil

the

U.S.,

and from

other

to be far from the scene

and to

make suppressed

countries of the Sovict

when his victim

dies.

lance

reports

Harvey

on

Oswald's

ciuht

Who titut

Despite the

commis

their deaths appear due

'estimate, which is loeked

bloc.

"A knowledge able

sion's written request for

to natural causes.

"One recently reported

source

all documents that might

One of the KGB's new.. the tightly-guardeg CL

has

described

days in Mexico

City be-

assassination technique is

shoel light on the assas-

ly

devised

assassination are

as follows:

to

pneumatically

operated"

fore the assassination. in

to there

electrocute an individ.

poison

ice

cluding

details

of

sination,

'atomizer

cIA authorities

wanons -is ,"a: pnumati-

"It has been

ual

by

luring

him

to

which leaves

no

wound

wald's

contact

with

the

failed to turn

over a na-

cally operated polson: icee,that the

KGB

endeavors

use a telephone, connect-

or other

evidence of the

head KGB

agent in

the

tional

intelligence

esti.

'atomizer,.. which leaves"?to reihoyerthe: threat

ed to a high-voltage wire,

cause of death."

Sovict

-t embassy

there,

gave

110

gues

male

warning

that it is: no wound or: other evl w Soviet interests pos

*during a thunderstorm.

Congressional

irvesti.

the

chief

Kremlin policy to remove

certain members of

from public office by

35.

dente of the cause of en rements, som

"Another

involves

the

gators,

who

have

asked

hint of the Krenilin's as

sassination

policy.

sassination Western

offi-

While this dendly weap

pistol

that the name

of their

arranging for;

of

which

pepiects a poison gas in

committee

be

withheld

(CONTINUED ON 8-2)

0000244

Documents 4:2

besidiministration

OTIER

officials to Speaker John

U.S. Intoni

sence exports.

very du.

McCormack (Masa.),

next

bious of Russiale co-ar:

In line to succeed

Prosi.

dent Johnson.

istence

line, stress that.

the • Warren .Comm

Whllo

FBY

officials

sion's

warnod Speaker

findings

McOor

" have

might

been

mack. a

different

ill.

dedicated anton

this CIA estimate and

Communist, that he is on

other

the list of Western off.

documents

sup.

ressed by the state in.

clals feared by. the Krem-

ariment had been avai

authorit

has shown the No. 2 man

able for study it ts

in government the

They

estate ament cro

CLA

listing these

ASC-

Soviet assassinations

suppress cuidoner ink methods

ing Oswald with ono of

employes, + who

cording to securitv. files.

icarned abou. the repott

oniv

grannily

from

Attr

mandel

file

p- 8593

---

