# 104-10194-10007

## Page 1

104-10194-10007

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

1 October 1962

1. Assessment of Harold R. NOEVAYR, C12, $9795.00

2. Task Force W, CA Section, JAWAVE

4.

5.

singleton agents engaged in editorial writing, press placement, and

propaganda leaflet production.

NOEMAYR's cover is that of an employee of

and this cover is

effective in his dealings with

non-operationad contacts.

Subject's operational contacts are

aware that he represents ODYOKE Interests if not KUBARK'S.

NOEMAYR is & worker with tremendous energy and ability. He works

best in flelds with which he has definite interest which presently

encompass printed propaganda, student activity in the psychological

warfare; parantlitary and Information collection flelds, radio

press and

TV exploitation. NOEMAYR puts himself completely into

his job excluding all other interests and on occasion his discourage-

ment(shared by many at the Station over lack of specific policy

to drive ahead as we would desire) has caused him to display patterns

of social behavior which have presented handling problems.

have been taken care of by his supervisors to the satisfaction of

all concerned and it is expected

that there will be no recurrence

The above is not meant to cast any reflection

the quality or the effectiveness of NOEBAYR's work.

He has assured his supervisors that these problems are a thing of

a. NOEMAYR has shown that he is proficient in spotting, assessing,

recruiting and handling agents. He has hád an ample supply of

candidates in the student group which he handles, but has shown

his versatility in training infiltration

teams in various fields.

Ilis physical and mental aptitudes for PM and Maritime activities

make him a natural in these fields.

b.

NOEMAYR's production of CA, CI and especially FI information

has shown improvement during the past year.

While at first

his contacts were not providing him all the above information

available to them, the situation has improved considerably and

is improving further.

C.

NOEMAYR has no problems in living his cover and has no apparent

stresses as a result of the dual life imposed upon us.

best at operating independently without strong support. He

scems to make a better and stronger singleton operator than a

team player.

RYBAT

---

## Page 2

CoNg

SECRET

Page 2

d. The quality and timeliness of his opcrational reporting is

excellent.

His outstanding handling of the

language required

for his job -both oral and written aids greatly in his work.

e.

There is no question that NOENAYR is of long range interest

to the clandestine services.

After the present assignment I

belleve a short course in covert training either at Headquarters

It is hoped that if the present Station is moved into the country

f interest NOENAYR will be able to go along, as his value will be

enhanced even further in that country.

OS

SECRET

a retin, s parting,

-i.:

VIBR

---

