SIGNATURE OF “REVIEWING OFFICIA

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED oR REMOVED, FROM THIS FILE



AREY.
RIb/201 Cf...

Teis TE

St 46 so.be destroye aries



of

(a) Basic compensation in an amount: caiduuited at the rai
$6000°per annum.
i

(d) Additional. compensation in,an amount calculated at the rate
of $3900-per-annunh Lor cost-of living expense s-(including.
qiarters), effective apon your arrival at and applicable daly.
to-your contemplated ‘permanent post of Aasignment overseas.
Cuarters will not’bo furaished you nor. will you accept quarters
provided by a cover facility. without prior amendment of this
agfec:rent.

Montes paid you directly or guiranteed bythe Government
r Federal tax purposes. Yeu wit

and sec4rity requirements. fF Ser
hold taxee'on.eaid income if it determines, euch requirements #0.necessitate.

‘You wili-be advanced or reimbursed funds for aval acd
iG expenses to'and from your permanent post of duty overseas:
and for authorised operational travel, You inay be entitled to per diem ia
leu of subsistence during such travel and, when suthorized, while on
tomporary duty away from your permanent post of assignment. All travels
transportation and per diem provided ior under this paragraph must. be
properly authorized, and éxpenses incurred hereunder are subject to pay-
ment and acéounting in substantial compliance with Covernment regulations.

4. Cperational Expenses. You will be advanced or reimbursed tuncs for |

necetsary operational expenses as adecifically adproved and financially limit
ed bythe Government. Such funds will be subject to payinent-and accounting |
insubstantial conformance with applicable Govern:nant regulations.

5. Fepayzient, It is recugnized that your failure to account for or refund | :
any monios advanced you hereunder ohall entitle the Covernment to withhold |
the total ammount of such indebtedness ur any, purticn theraof (rom any monies |
due you under the terme ofthis contract in guch manner ag it deems appro-
priate.



ig Your: reséitiomedt in:
tent dseined appropriate by the

Execution of Locunent Uf, in the perforaance of services under
this contract, you as urve the custody of Coverninent funds oF ‘take title.of
Fecord to property of any nature whatsoever and wherever situate, which
Property baa in fact besn purchased with ‘aonies of the U.S. Covernment,
you hereby ‘recoyriize and acknowledge the: existence of a trust Folationship,
‘either express or constructive, and you agreg tu vxecute whatever ducugient:
maybe required by this organization tu evidence thie relationship.

9% Eunding. If nece: Ty to protect the security of this arrangenent,
qaonies duo you hereunder inay be junded in other than a diroct nanner. it
ts underatood and Agreed that any menies so funded Constitute payment by
the Covernment in satiefaction of ite obligations under thie agreament.

0. Cover. fa) ets anticipatec that you will undertake a cavar venture
of your performance under this agtee:nent. Such venture: muet
y the appropriate Government reprasentative vversesing your |
Sctivities prior to its initiation. Any and ail ducucents which you may |
i
i

|
|

execute in the course of said: cover venture are subordinate to thie agree.
ment and any contradiction in terme which in any way anpluy, extend or
Feotrict your righta and/cr cbligalions, hereunder abal, be Peselved oy this
Aiteement which shall always be dominant. :

pproved cover vonture the
on -interest bear-c, prom
ed ty an account
you avainst that
after ~

(b) To provide cazttal for your @
Government will joan you 5a390ne be so sured by a
seorynete, payable on denard. aic loan wil! be depen.
ina foreign bank and a £2992 letter of credit wilt be ise
depesit. Ihe additionai $1999 will be released fror
ap Frovalby the Government: representative cvorseeing your activities,



be required to taxé.

(c), Yuu vill submit te the Covernment guarterly income aad

loan has bees completely
have Been tade

: During: the term of thié agreement, and in your
Stfictal cover capacity you harein'agroe to act in conformance with inetrac-
tions, oral or written given you, by authcrized. representatives of thie organl-
‘gation.

2 promises or commitments per-
other thar those exareas'y stipulated
ment therota shall be binding on

13;
fainiiog to right
in writing in:jhie ag
this organization.

14. Tern. This contract ts effective ag of | November 149, and shall
continue theréalter for a pericd of two (2) yeara unleos socrer terminated.
by the Governirent either:

{a) By sixty (60) daye' actual notice to you from the Government, oF

(b) W.thout pfior notice, tn the event of a breach of this contract by
your violation of the security provisions hereof or by your otherwise
rendering yourself unavailable for. acceptable service.

Subject to the availability of apprcpriations, this agraanent Tay be extended
upon notice from the Govornment. In the event of voluntary termination on
your part or termination fcr cause by the Governient pricr to the expiration
of this azreemant or any rerowa! therecf, yeu will not be untitled to return
ited States. Teroination or expiration of this agree-
ment wiil not release ycu fro-n the obligation of any security cath you may

UNIT SE STATUS GOVORNMENT

by
Contracting clicer

wnt ) So WYER,



ape Orie Big
: nek "lace Boe. ae . :
iu
‘
4
4
4
j
:
f
fen ff F
; : for- 2 33 ry, 7 ?
Tate S10 asa CO secret’ =) CONFIDENTIAL CJ roa fa UNCLASSIFIED

1 ©. 8 GOVERMENT PRIRTOG OFFICE: 1948.0~'enm81

aE Resey gt Suan neanarragnecegetenEpS? OSTT Tae Raa aS


10.



SEGRE. ws

REDSOX Spottini

Cpriganza: a sj. Michael Leng.
lestedt ‘as George: Fowler |

G

 (@eérgesV). where He; Saw Restedt’ with subje ‘su

: Georges Vi rendezvous, (which 5 understandable Considering the hurried : x :
ee Ge the Brevious partifg when the rendezvous Was dfgcusyed),. had waited perhaps 1/2 :

oy ISSO LORE ana tne decided he “had Better™ check: the Georges ‘V.. On arrival at the Georges: V

: Réstedt, {mediately -recognized his, approached the tax!’ which-subject had Jeft and

«- Sfecentered, locked hard at Subject who caught the significance of fostedt's extra-

zt ordinary attentions, ordered the taxi ‘around the cornef, pald him his due fare, and

- : re-joined Rostedt... It was at this moment that Friganza returned on intuition.

The trio then went tc lunch, taking a circuitous route by foot. and taxi. Cver
loneh from about 15-15 nurs Rostedt had an oppertunity to acquaint. himself with
subject and to put te Subject severdl quest!ens ceneerning willingness and the Job. ’

Arter luach Friganza and Rusted: decidéd that under the wirctimstanges it would :
be advisable to keep Subject in Faris rather thin risk his arrest ‘travelling between
Paris and Ambert-or returning to Gap to hive his carte d'identite. reval idated.
Accordingly while spent the next i} hrs. or so with Subject, Friganza
returned te the Paris Siation where he asked othe use or i ue Weber safehous
Paris Station had committed the safchouse tor the night of 6 and { April as weil
as the morning of 8 April but ocginning late afterncon 8 April the house was
assigned for the use of AZASPIC. Arrangements were made to have Platipodis who
knows Subject to be at the safehouse at 1630 hours (alternate 25:0 hrs.) cn 8 April.
Subject wis Instructed te go to the safehouse, ring “£ longs, 2 short, whereupon
he would be acmittec by Platipedis. He was likexise given the name Jonn Sandor and
told that inthe eveg: oF unavoidable .ngulry he’ should clalm that he fad been lent
the apartment by Tom Aroxn, a friend of John Sandor. He’ was instructed not to
ansxer the phene and not immediately to answer the door. If after persistent ringing
ne felt cbliged to ansker the coor, he should pretend he had drunk too.mich wine,
ac sleeping heavily, and should core to the door appearing groggy. Subject was
further Instructed to stay in the safchouse during daylight hours ang te venture out 1
at night cniy {f necessary to buy food, eat, ete, He was told that Briganza woult
return for nim sometime between 1s and 16. April.

ay with Annick. Curing the ésy he will
caring only at night to 51

Between 6 and 8 april Subject «ili.
: avoid the house, going te movies, etc.,

25 4G,B74 fAxartly S700).

aseaeea . Subject nas p:

kntheny H. Priganza
“tase Officer
See F SEGRE?



spaything cénventent |:
‘of BAPA:. “Anything convenient.

3) city 08:
+ (k): Place. of: Tesuanse
2. Reason Request: ‘This ‘doownent may be needed to. bring AEASPIC

for
from Franc ‘Gormany. It would be.used nly after discussion with Dexter
B. Rostedt ‘from ‘AEACRE and-with the epproval of Chief of Base, Frankfurt and.

‘chief of station; Parig to:move Subject: in thia fashion, ' I have. checked to

determine whether Subject can ove without’ considerable danger in this fashicn
‘and if {t's .customary; he’ can and it 1s. . :

3.° Subject will need no other documents, being that, this will be a
one time tise to cros# at Strasbourg. This document 16 ‘being requested in the
‘évent that it is needed-for, the 6 april meeting in Paris with’ Subject. ‘Per
cables from Headquarters Rostedt ie empowered to decide whether Subject should
be brought to Germany and if so, it would gave one extra trip to Paris if this
document were carried by the undersigned, to the 6 April meeting so that he
could be brought directly to Germany. :

4, photographs have already been given to the MKTOPAZ officer.

af

Deputy for Operations,

oe



DSOX Spotting and Assessment
“Report. -:

whereupon the operator ‘and
after & quick ‘lunch
~The ‘operator:met Subject; rety
abot 2330, it haVing-been agreed.

teens informed by, thé operater. that~in his gpinice Soulect was'not attempting
to-deceive on any important points, even though sane. of the more prosaic sapects
‘of his blography.gontinue to defy Logical acceptance. :

We then discussed future meeting arrangements witt Subject: subject will
appear in front of the Cafe Georges von the Champs Elysees at. 1214 and 16 hours
of 6.April. He will wait for five minutés in front- ofthe. cafe but will hot
enter. If we, are mot there -hé-will return for the altérnate. ° In any event
‘alternaté centact will be made through Annick. Subject was instructed to clear
Mp his affairs:in Ambert and be prepared to depart for Germany;: however, it’ was.
also explained to Subject that We were not authorized’to.make a final commitment
.to Subject and-that-much as wé regretted this, this would’be left “until 6 April.

Subject. was paid Francs 15,500 for-which no receip: was obtained since we were
in a hurry to catch'a plane for the Hague. If Subject has any difficulties he
‘will write Annick, ‘He Will not return to Gap. He expects to stay with Josef.

“Dassaud in Ambert until the night of, 5 April when he will ‘travel to Paris by
train. It was further agreed ‘that on or about 4 or.5. april Subject will have
sent # letter to Annickfor "Mike" in which he will conform his arrival and in
double talk inform us. if he has had any trouble.

We divcussed with Pletipodis ofthe Paris station the need to sed "Maurice"
to Annick on 4 or 5 April to see if ‘Subject ‘had written.

Anthony H. Friganza

| Date 25. March 1959-22

Case Officer

a
"
°
~
ws
“


oo “. SECRET

ase Attiehment ~~ to EFA

DSOK Spotting: dria Assessment
ees

dentally, Subject ‘showed:
demofistrated=how the machine and thé... for it are made.-. .Cne cannot
‘Help but_marvel ‘at subject's, ingenuity, and-ability aS a tinkerer’and® pseud
of: engineer: .He-said® they"are producing. about 300 a month, sella few more’ than
this, at’ 48;000-francs a piece (nearly $100).. However, Subject gets nc Incorie other
: : thar pocket ‘money, free room and board where he now lives, and will not receive
any util the capital outlay of His other two partners has been amortized. Taking
tlie bull--by the horris-we explainéd to Subject the delay: -A telegram’nad been sent
to-"éertain colleagues” in Paris. who were supposed to write a letter to be for <
warded tc Subject. The man-to whom the telegram was. sent was on leave and upon
return he'waa not notified of the telegram we sent; consequently, Subject was not
inforriedas-he should have been. We are terribly sorry’ and Hope that Subject would
appreciate, such a minor matter. .-In any event, we reminded Subject that he had-not
een profiised a letter on or about 1.February but rattier told that he could expect
> hear from.us then. Subject agreed this was-so. ©

‘a Subject was far less interested in explanation than a decision. He rhetorically
asked whether he was accéptable, adding he was obliged to assume he was not, and
commenting that although there are “many two legged people in America also” he
tholght he was probably a unique perscm from the point of view of language ability,
experfence as an.cperator in dangercus situations, etc. We replied thus: One man
(the psychologist) ‘has ‘already come’ all’ the way from the States Just to see Subject
and another was on;his way.’ From. this Subject could fairly conclude the importance’
“Headquarters” attaches to Subject's candidature and that far from being a dead
iséue, Subject's prospects were good, although all depended on him. E

we then turned to the matter of subject coming to Paris. Subject explained
that Paul (i. ) hadbeen sent by. the Paris station
‘to Annick: and had not done very well. He had failed to convince Annick ‘that he was
sent by Mike (Friganza).and apparently althoigh we did net go into the details of
this, he did net get the.message straight. In any case Subject immediately said
that he could come to Paris anytime although he would be cbliged to travel
illegally. This bepause he had permitted his’ {dentity docusent to expire as of 14
February 1969. Hoxever, Subject {eit he could make the Journey oy train without
being caught because the police are not checking most trains, He did not want to
travel by car bécauge he had heard theré are cccasional road blocks (this may’ be
true for the undersigned ran inte cne,on the drive from Paris to Ambert). Siibject
also sald hé cculd stay as long as need by but it was absolutely essential that he
net be’ obliged te stay at a hotel -- he could either stay with Annick or at a place

at at his disposal: by us.

i, a Case Officer
SECRET. ae



Attachment

“ operator returned to the Paris st

REQSCK Spotting and Aséessnent |
F «os, REPOFE eit “Ai : ae

“docunent e
‘Subject surmises tha a x ‘ : :
“Palk His: way! out of trouble bit he sight be given two-weeks in Jativas a sharp
reminder of the necessity to-valigate documents promptly. : i :
“March pee
21: Rumiyh00500959: Subject wes met by the undersigned at the Gare Austerlitz at - H
BOO hours. Henry C. Ladue cf the Paris staticn ccunter-survelited the meeting and |
our progress from the staticn by fect and then by metro to the’ Severes Batylon
station. ‘Ladou-1s certain that cum meezing was not surveilied. After gcing our :
“ewn-way from Ladou,"We took a tax! 16 "the Opera, switched taxis and then went to
thesafehouse in the rue weber 14. .¢fter Subject, washed and shaved we drove !n the
car provided by the station to Les Hailes where we had dinner az the Pled ce Cochon.
We returned to the apartment st adcs+ 20 hours, talked for another hour cr so while
ving a drink, and then retired. During thls conversation Subject was enccuraged
4 prompted to.develop thoughts on 3 variety of: matters which we hoped would tend
give'us better grounds cn wich tc assess nim,

7 Nothing of particular operational
or bicgraphic ‘significance was discussed.

lect was asked to wait until we returned. We
= to meet the LOFLUTTER operatér. After the cperator
and returned to the apartment and suggested that

22 March 1959: After break!
went with Ladou to the airscr’
arrived we decided on-a preg:
Subject spend the afternoon on his cwn and agreed on a 2230 rendezvous net far from

Port Maillot and ‘the safehcuse where Subject was met. We walaed to the safehouse He

“and retired’ at about midnign

23 Maréh 1959: ‘We arose at &, left the apartment by about 8:40, walked to a cafe,
Where we-breakfasted, and then per arrangement passed the corner of Pert Maillot

and rue Malakoff at which’ tine the LCFLUTTER operator observed us and follcwed Js

to the apartment. We showed Subject upstsirs and left the apartzent where we act

the operator and tock him upstairs and introduced him as Mr. Brown, After a very
brief Intréduction with no exzlanaticn, we absented ourselves froa thé room while

the operatér reviewed Subjecz's:bicgrsphy In preparation for the LOFLUTTER exaainaticn.
At about 1245 hours subjéct ‘2 cm his own, it having been agreed to
meet him on the avenue Grand Am the rout Bien cafe. 7

to Paris cn 24. or 25
hirer

undersigned.would go to Germsny an
m te the apartment. .Aft!

met. Subject at-the. rendezvous sng. rete

ments for tickets, etc., we retirned to where we
and the cperator. During this dolef =e ect was paid a further 32,000
Francs, making a total of Frans °43,cc0 He was instructed to spend the
nignt of 23 and 24 warch chez Annick and we would return Lo see again cn 25 Marth.

Case otic
SECRET

poter: sere for a beautiful cne: Gur false
ith Supject’s lack ef any legal documentation is raw :

No security flaps although th
identity documents together
material sufficient for this.



“Henvevey S. (NCENT ©
™ Faute FRANKFURT 43/y
FRANKFURT (Ha,

ler Devtscniaan )




Sdn bean Gok (chee Hedbage) Bet
ad dan withe, jgecl cde Whe cl ake ate
dhe whem (fe vege chur hy).

as \ wede ww finer
Fre—aleclief eb :

'

90 de ee Becks ee

a


“before thie Soviet «invasion. ° ‘Subject fee

a flight rather than a tactical retreat.

“golerate being beaten in conipetition.’

tal’ prejudicial elas attitude
‘blige. in other words’he feels

i, gubject feels be acgitted &
and abided by. the ‘principle ‘of + snobhi
that 4¢. you pretend. to be something, you have to act accordingly. His.
nobility has evolved into a concept of dignity and pride in his

coricept of,

work.
5+. The feasty Jeft Georgia when #

he subject, was three. They fled
els-that his real existence. begen
f with certali

peésaiisé’the father had provided: him: es, eee ‘
rtably and even opulently. ‘However, the
ively to material degradation

jay of think-

at this point.
the family was able‘to live ‘conto’
vicissitudes of life “prought the family progress
and‘financial difficulties which greatly influenced Subject's
ing thereafter. Whereas the famtly had previously lived in en artificial
tough. Subject feels that the family was

tt this was not

feudalistic way, life bec
brought into more direct contact. with reality and that

necessarily a bad influence,

6. gubject actually did not want to leave Georgia. He felt it was
Apparentiy he has never been
and it may de that part.of his :

‘able to accept-this humiliating defeat
nia perception of an opportunity

current. motivation for affiliation involves

to take countermeasures, against the Soviets- He is a person who cannot



‘firet of all material andiperhapa al 6 moral comfort, and -apcurley.. However,
he haz ‘dlweys regarded his soct y; through his disappointments and
sortitying experiences, as 4 wicked and aelfish in its majority. Since
selfish and mean, he expressed his dissatisfaction”

in the fora of aggrestive and destfuctive behaviour... Apparently Subject

was ‘a preocious child-and he experienced disillusionsent in his family.
“and: in scelety. It 1s as if he suddently-discovered to his great dis-
appointient that there. was no Santa Claus.

8. At first Subject felt his disillusionment was unique and peculiar
to his particuler 1ife experience, but he soon discovered that his dis-
content was characteristic of others, He experienced this fighting
attitude within himself and he reflected: 1t in his non-conforming. be
haviour. : :

9. Hig mother rected to his behaviour with over-afféctionate
She wasn't actually able to determine the reasons for his:

solicitousness.
internal distress, but she was aware something was taking place’ within ‘him.
‘The mother was apparently. a marked conformist who insisted that ‘subject

abide by. the aceial order. She took him to a psychiatrist. because of his

behaviour problems and because ‘she did not-advise him of what she was
‘doing and got him to a psychiatrist. on a subterfuge, and because subject
_aid not agree with the psychiatrist's conclusions, he did not benefit

by this experience. This indicates to us that in handling subjee at



and: ‘he. has alsa 3 wanted. to. Help cothers in order’ t felp himself. “in sttier
rain ofdér to” obtain-lové and

words he is: inotivated to helping” othe
affection: ‘This need for love and. affection is probably the most primary

of his motives.

“oA. In respect to the flight of the family from Georgia, Subject feels

he was too young to understand it. However, he feels he revolted against

tt; His idea is that one must fight, surpass and conquer. AS @ young boy,
he felt he was much stronger than several million men, This 1s extremely
important as regards utilization of his services. First of all he ts
motivated to succeed out of a spirit of revenge, -and secondly ‘ne is self-
confidant and optimistic that he will succeed despite the hazards of. the
undertaking. He 1s like a man who wants to kill an elephant -- all he

wants from us is a high-powered rifle -- then he feels he would be equal

to the elephant. :
12; Subject also seems to reflect disappointment in bis’ father as
a personal ideal. He regards his father as a very independent person,
kind but profoundly selfish, but who would nevertheless give you the
shirt off his back. His father was fond of the children, loved the whole
femtiy and was happy when he saw others happy. However, Subsect is con-
dincea that if his.fattier had succeeded, none of the things ‘that. happened
im his Life would have come to pass. He féels that his motner's suicide .
1s a direct consequence of his father's failure to succeed. ‘
13. “When his father and.sister returned to Georg!e, Subject was driven :
to-despair by the breaking-up of the family. ‘The death of his mother and
the departure of his father and sister was quite @ threat to his, security.



we ‘The: father apparently returned te Georgia | pecause e-hie wanted te
die 1n Georgia. “Subject feele-that his father was doing something important
to realize his objectivisy or to, achiéve his purpose. However, he feels
his father accepted defeat-by returning to Georgia to die. The mother

did not ‘go with-the father and apparently was at her wits end after the
ther left, ‘Subject ‘régards hte mother! as’ the axle of ‘the family and

when’ be lost her through suicide, he feels she deserted him.

15. -Subject's alster followed her father to Georgia out of a spirit

.of.affection dnd-saerifice, | Shé' felt that her. fatter needéd her and

‘Subject feels she was.a tributary of his mistakes. The-sister has a Ph.D.
in languages and taught courses in school, At the time of Stalin the
children would say "we have done this and that thanks to Stalin” and she
would reply “you are individuals and you have done this or that without
Stalin." As a result she was ‘arrested and sent to a concentration camp.
With the ohange of, regimes ‘she obtained her freedom and got _her Job back...

16. The sister's husband returned to. Russia also.snd Subject believes
that because he had, served in the-German arty he may have been sent to a
concentration camp. He feels the intellectual level of the brother-in-law
is ‘lower than that Of the sister. The, brother-in-law apparently has an

inferiority complex..-He emigrated té France at a much later date and
apparently ‘could not adapt ‘himself and ee having: left fussia.

17, Subjects brother, 3? yo" 2 ra Hts van-architect in Gap.
‘The brother 1s an independent person who 1s conservative and probably



0 be: that: his brother régi rds subject a3 °"Peck's bad boy" or the, lack
sheep-of the fantiyaa is interested’ in 's, :
accomplishment or’ success,

2B, ‘subject was. the baby. of thie family and still 18: Whereas he
was born in: 1918, his brother was born in 1916-and his. aister in 1915.
Subject.was more'expressive of affection, particularly for his mother,
wheréas his brother was more timid, sty, and independent. When the
brother saw Subject getting. the mother's attention, he tried to replace
Subject. ‘this sibling rivalry may continue to date, for example, the
brother learnéd that Subject’ was seeing a girl whom he knew. the brother
advised the girl to leave Subject alone.

19. Subject denies he is Jealous of his brother. He admits his
brother has been successful but in his-om sphere. subject's new found
Philosophy 1s not. to-aécept-the fact that he has beea uiguccessful, but
to try to'explain. why he-has not. ‘In other words he. seems to be motivated
to obtain greater knowledge of hitiself:

20. Siibject does not consider himself as a Georgian; this 4s of no
importance to him: He regards the flight from Georgia as a defeat and as
@ loss of. the motherland which he has never accepted. He feels he was a
Georgian as.a child but the most Important aspect ig that he feels he. was
defeated by the necessity of the. family's flight’ from Georgia. He offers
as an analogy the fact ‘that he was committed to prison; this was.a.defeat
for him. In other words he was not bothered by. the prison life but by the
“fact that he made a wrong calculation in taking on a bad associate’ and: con-



indeitexés. one of the prineipal aeverutnants of this man’ ‘amie

ts apparently, the very strong desire to succéed and accomplish.

“22. _gubject feels that-throughout his school experience perhaps ‘only |
one oF two professors. undérstood him. Thése particular professors ~ iodine ©
that’ it was often necessary in life to "swallon” a gréat deal ‘of useless

*sturf" so that thereafter certain essential ‘problems could be more easily
digested. Subject feels that these professors were superior and that he

understood them, whereas he regarded’ the others as apparently idiotic
or worthless.

23. Subject was’ influenced by heroes whom he heard about such as
Lindbergh, Edison, Hitler, Einstein, and several others. He realized that
if such people existed, it meant that the possibility te act either for
good or for evil alsé. existed. He did not identify, with any one hero in
particular but always wished that he could have been: one of them. He did
not actually want tobe one.of them, but wanted to resemble heroes in
general. Subject always remaine-- remembers certain great men mentioned
in history.’ He feels that these great men gave him the concept that a
certain order was necessary for the lével of the people. However, it

appears fie was disillusioned: in these men and his ideals were shaken be-
could: commit abject or

- cause he later. learned to his dismay that thi
Subject feels he has wade any wistakes in life but how-

monstrous acts.
ever big these mistakes may be, he does not feel they have reflected his

basic character. He feels that his character was basically based by the

desire to become worthwhile individual, even at the cost of tehaving

wrongly. He feels that if the only criterion for Judging a man $6 his


e was-not’ giving
“However, ho“tdentifies with -his fattier.in“the ‘respect
eve d anything sighificant: and-that they ‘both aay have
“Subject misses his mother's love and he feels
He- found himself compl.

disappointed thé mother.
his life was broken up when she died.
and all his illusions disappeared. He tried to find affection through
Le but

others. ile feels the Aeed for affection 13 a big part of hi

‘onthe other hand "I-am a complicated person."

26. Subject claims he has Iedirried the difference between a man and
a woman: This is likely to have a good deal: of meaning to. hin, particularly
aij regards his relationship with his mother. He regards women aa allogical
and to be determined by a psycho-feiinine education, This is enough to

tip us off that he. should not be exposed to handling by females.

27. Subject claims he has learned from his personal experience in
life rather than from the experience of others. In other words he has
educated himself in the school of life and has derived little from ‘the
actual formal school situation. For exaaple, he claims his mother's | -:
opinions had importance only at the time she was rendering Ker opinions;
thereafter they were not influential as far as he was concerned. This
fay be important as regards training. It 1s likely that he would prefer
to proceed with the task in actuality rather than tc learn about per-
forming the task through the experiences or training of Lietiety

28. Subject Joined the French Foretin Legion at the béginning of

“the war. “As“a foreigner-and-as-an~ e was -subjecttos—- -—.



“Cawful® ‘ete ‘time'to'make a ‘dectsten an connection with him, Because cs .

-in the current “tiavinge he has no alternative and he ds. concen: to go along
_with normal procedures which he-may regard as. a waste of ci but will |”
accept. E

29. Subject feels that he married because he regarded marriage as
[Recessery to‘build.a family and to‘make a‘home. .He feels his marriage was
a inistake because, even though’ he understands the value of ‘the principles
involved, principles which were inculodted by his father, {t' is ridiculous
to marry just’ for the sake of principles.without ‘the necessary sentiments.
He feels that at the time he was merely abiding by precepts of his father
without thinking of the possible consequences. However he soon discovered,
in fact, a family .did not represent anything at all , and that creating the

family was aggravating the incoherence and the division of society. In

view point getting married meant building a wall around himself. It also
meant that !nstead of finding a partner who complemented Him, all that he
obtained ’from the partnership was a i reflection of himself.
He feels that the so-called spirftual intimacy 1s a fallacy. He claima
that, sexually speaking, women are necessary but he fails to say why it

is necessary to build a separate World with it.
30. As was explained. above, the reasom for his marriage are connected
with his family education. He does not regard his marriage as a complete

fiasco, regards his wife as very nice. He thinks he was nice, too.



to-de1t again, he would not marry. |

31. | During the war when Subject’ was in Germany, he got involved in
a false ‘documents business and’ created a gang which-he led, The purpose
of. ‘the ‘group was ‘to repatriate or liberate war. prisoners. The black :
market was a worthless brarich, tectinteaily speaking, of the organization.
Ite only purpose was to solve: financial problens. However, it ts true that
the black market reached such a magnitude that @ Person who was interested
only in aaking money would have found: it quite satisfying and sufficient 1
“tn itself, - As a whole, the technical efficiency of his. gang satisfied:
him. ‘They had freedom of motion and security. gubject was arrested be=
cause of a carelessness or a slip,fot in the actual functioning of the
gang, but rather on the part of one of tne meri whom they were bielping.

32. Through this experience Subject learned that it was very inter-
« gating to know the weaknesses of authorities and to play. these weaknesses

or forces against one another. His emotions corresponded to a Joy of
peing the sole master. of his actions and moyes. He feels that if he were
to-find himself in this sort of situation again, he would act in exactly

the same way. i

33. When Subject, was arrested by the Gestapo, “he was considered by:

the Germaris to be a very important pres- He played the game and led the

Germans to believe that he was an important prey in the hope that such

belief would give his certain advantages- Although he realized he’ could

be shot: for only one-half of what he had done and that it was


35. ‘subject attacked: a. bank in’ 1950. ~.at thé: time he was marrted-and:
was the father of cng child. He was working in a.diodel makers shop and
although he was‘not, well off, he was earning d decent Living. However,

because of his love for Fisk and-out of friendship for another fellow, he
ently the other fellow

agreed to participate in the bank attack. Api
trusted Subject because he knew of subject's war activities and he figured
that because “Subject had ‘been able to accomplish certain iMegal activities
“that he was quite capable of attacking bank. The attack was carefully
planned. Because there were only two on the team they were compelled in
of his staff'to give extra attention to their plan,

view of the smallne:

36. According to Subject he was close to this young ftiend who
At first, Subject felt that the other

He also had the normal twinge

solicited his financial assistance.
fellow was crazy to dare to attack a bank,
of conscience and asked himself the quest:on “is it right to do harm.by
robbing a bank?" Subject never felt that the two alone would be able to
attack the bank successfully. Consequently, they detersiined to’ knock. :
over a Jewelry shop first: At each point in the developments ‘Subject

wanted to withdraw from the whole deal by saying “If my sother learned of
this, she would di.” They postponed the Job indefinitely. However, bis
mother died.in the meantime and his friend again approached’ him and told
him that now that his mother was dead, there was no longer such a danger.

Subsequently they knocked over the Jewelry store.



"3B. However, ‘the ‘friend retufned after havjng spent ‘hid tioney, =
Previously Subject had told him “you got your:money for the. marriage;

tow leave dé-alones"’ However, the friend had’ not. married and:was how

“desirous of robbing @ bank in order to finance another Intended marriage.

Subject agreed that this would be the last: Job. They. cased the. Joint very.

: carefully and then committed the act. The. other fellow apparently threw
vhis money around, was arrested, and squealed. The police came ‘to

Subject'a ‘place; found a » and he was arrestedy in his flight.
to the Spanish border. Subject’ was fleeing to the Pyrenees because he
had- learned that his bank deal partner had ‘been arrested and had talked,
and that the police were after him, Subject voluntarily admits that he
loet control over himself and that he had failed to plan in case he failed
and had to flee. He had not foreseen or prepared himself fur such a con-
sequence. If he were'to find himself again In the same situation, he would
Prepare an escape even if it were only necessary for the satisfactory
planning of the project. :

39. However, the question which arises in this examiner's mind is

why Subject panicked in hia flight. It could have been that he un.

consciously wanted to get caught and to be punished In order to relieve
his Quilt. If this is $0, then !mportant consideration should be given
to this aspect of subject’s personality as regards planning the project.


tien ‘Ute men ne. rete thet eh
world: seemed ‘to’ Conspire: against 1
eollapse before ‘him. ” Yet he haa ‘always
a mess: principally by virtue of’ working.
Unless & man is 80 weak-both physically and morally, it 1s always possible
for him to'get back on his feet or at ledst to hope that thie ig possible.
Consequently, even when he was. broke, Subject always ‘believed there waa
posaibility to fight ‘and conquer. It 1s likely.he will always have hope
and optimism.

It. there were ways to get out, or
He continties to believe that

43. AS regards his philosophy on the two projects which involved
Lberating French priscners and the bank attack, he was betrayed by
another.’ Actually, however, he could not have become ‘angry at these
Persons because he felt his betrayal was unimportant. fowever, these
persons lost his esteem because he feels there are certain moral values
Which he holds dearJ¥, namely friendship.: This would indicate that he is
“Rore’in. contempt of himéelf for having miscalculated than angry with the
ether person for having betrayed’ him. However, Subject does not feel that
any of his mistakes, regardless of their size and consequence, have serious
Consequences as regards his near or distant future. There is no question
that his mistakes have seriously reduced his circumstances of life, but he
16 optimistic and it is likely he regards this assignwent as-a golden
opportunity which not only: permits hima chance of success, but does not
censure him for his past deeds. ‘Consequently, he feels that tobe dis
couraged about the future is nonsense for if there 1s a future, there is

hope.

‘and whién everything:‘seenéd to.



‘ ‘she started him ina new ‘schéol, she. made Kim promt: ‘
he wourd Betiave Alcély, but each time he was thrown out of school. He is |
convinéed she wanted this for his good and not for the satisfaction of \
having.a-peefect child, However, it 1s likely that the mother's over-
solicitousness. wag actually compensatory for her basic-rejection of

Subjéct. “Therefore, ‘she wanted him to be perfect so that she could love
‘him. “Consequently, it isAftkely that she did things for him, but she did
“things ‘with him -for ‘herself. In other fords, -she wanted him tobe perfect

6 that he ccild be worthy of her love. He was not perfect, probably did
not obtain her love, ‘and consequently is continually seeking the love of
other persons. However, he cannot accept this fact as regards his mother
and denies shé did not act in his interest. One of his chief defenses ia
(denial, that is, simply assuming the attitude that’ such and such was not
“trite, when he probably believes it wis true. :

48. Subject's actions are often impulsive: and unreasoned. Such
irrational behaviour usually takes place with another perscn despite the
fact that there may be no particular tie or affection between him aad the
other person. Subject. 1s unable. to explain why this is so and intellectually :
realizes that any explanations which ne might’ offer are not sufficient
to explain such behaviour and his emotional state. In other words, thia
man's, impulsiveness and tendencé to behave irrationally and to his own. i
disadvantage and in-his.own disinterest amounts to a compulsion which ts. |

sufficient: to determine his ‘behaviour but: which is unconscious and rot



O qui lekay “tha there’ was ‘ho: Jaiséd tate pain ‘But the people: around him be-
came panicky. “He temained cola “plodded and gave -the order to remove all -
things which were there because the « explosion undoubtedly alerted the
“polices “The police came and‘he explained that he had played with a
fountain pen witch had purst.” The poltceden strongly advised, him never
‘again.to pick up objects dropped by the eneniy. ‘They took cognizance of
Ais declarations and went avay. | the Red Cross took care of his: wounds.

50. Subject does-not think he will'be-very different in-the future
from what he'is now. However, he feels his material situation will have
improved.: He does not mean financtally but socially. He naively hopes
that the workd w.11 change and there will be no discrimination. He also
hopes: to acquire, if necessary, a nationality in which case he will feel
he actuslly belongs. to society. «However, -hé feels that society-is
anxious to stamp-and label individuals and it may be that he would prefer
to.be-an individualist who is outside oof society. than to be a member of:

Society who is-required’to conform. Since this’ person. lives in the
present, it is very diff{cult for him to imagine what his future will be.
St. Despite the fact that this man is motivated by rather vivid
{deals, he ati11 strikes the examiner as a’ practical realist who thinks
and-acts In a matter of fact manner. He has experienced a good deal. of.

life ‘and he 1s quite sophisticated, :


morning”. 100 tiaes in order to tinderstanid the seaning: arid pirpose of
Ssaiy to mass produce

good’morning:” Aso he does hot ‘feel 1t-1s ne
@ machine -in order to funly understand its functlon. However, he realizes
that, commercially speaking, it is sore rational to mass produce the
machine but the repitition does not interest him. In his opinion the
creative 1dea and the prototype have a-much greater valué and importance
than ‘the setting-up of the factoty which will, popularize the prototype.

To illustrate his feeling further:he 1s of the opinion that one single
thought. from a"great thinker appears’ to-him to be much more valuable

than the millions of .books which are published yearly. ‘|

55. In describing himself subject reveals that he always tries his
hardest to keep his promises. He also feels that he sometimes appears to
talk somewhat. rashly but he feels-this/1s.due to-the fact ‘that he thinks
fast: and he is able to seg quickly the components and the essence of a
problem In its various prospectives. Hesis® ‘able to’ rapidly synthesize.
In other words he learns:extremely ‘fast! and ‘hs gets thé point immediately.
He 18 so quick that he will understand what you are. trying to say before
you finish the sentence.

56.. Subject is.unable toi see himgelt in terms: of what he’ would like
to be. In order for him to display himself, 1t would be necessary that he
would be another person altegether. However, he feels that, everything

“relative, perhaps hé- should show more*strength of character, bea little

.more compromising, more realistic, and less sentimental. However, this

would imply that he would then find himself fn.an envircnment in which
there was no ‘room for séntiment -- in which case his personality would



#iéiee that Hs friends “love him ‘for what”
are,: probably’ because ‘they areas
f¥iend. ts-unthinkeble ‘for

59... This mandefies ‘thathe has any interest: or vemotiénal”
attachment to France at this time. Homevér, it 1s likely he was patriotic

at the time of the war. Since he has been branded a criminal, and has

been deprived of certain rights and privileges, he now perhaps feels re- 2

Jected and in turn is rejecting France as his fatherland. Nevertheless,

he strikes the examinér’as' a true Frenchman -- he thinks and feels like a

Frenchman and 14 certainly not a Russ{an‘in his personality. It is likely

that he identifies’ the French authorities with the police. He cannot :
tolerate rejecting attitudes. He is like an‘ outsider who {s looting in. a
Tt may be: hé has the "sour grapes” attitude by. which he feels that since

He cannot have what he wants, it 1s not too good anyway.

60. Subject is not a planner. Despite his interest in invertion i
and the fact that-he has pulled off a number of capers, he is.more of an i
In order for him to be successful |

\

instigator, a leader, and air executor.
in future projects, it 1s hecessary. that someone else plan and then tell

him exactly what to. do.

61. Subject 1s currently involved in the invention business which
he started alone. He 18 the owner and exploiter of several patents and
certain persons are financially and’technically interested in his in-
ventions. He is faced witha problem at this time. He is involved in
the initial and preliminary phases with us and consequently-{s put on
the fence as regards his invention business, “Furthermore, 1f he were to
Join us, he would. relinquish everything to his business partners.



“eonceptualization, afid’ {5 able to deal in. symbol

Con-

“etive 2 with ‘an. nab tea er secretive Fpersonaisty:

hé 4a aan South. He both expresses himself orally and he ts driven by
desire to. obtain oral’ supplies ‘by incorporation. What this means is that
he will eat you up:

65.. Subject reflects: superior intelligence, 1s capable of abstract

66. Subject is a narcissistic character wtio féels that because’ others
don't love him, he needs to love himself, In other words, he is quite in
love with himself and’ acts accordingly.

67. Subject tends to rationalize and to offer socially acceptable

reasons for his individualistic behavior.
68. subject strives chiefly for emotional satisfaction.

69. Subject is gx altriistic but at the same time he 1s selfish. He
will do things for the community with the hope of getting: something out of
it for himself, Both-of these drives merge in.a unitary fashion. He 1s
motivated by both at the samé ‘time.

JO. subject denfes nationalistic motives for his actfons and prefers
to regard them as being primarily humanitarian. ‘ subject is action-oriented
and loves to take Fisk and gets a kick out of excitement and adventure.



peice Sen, Ae.
“qi, “Subject aéts-decalise he thinks tie fs

tacts because he thinks ‘he will: succeed and Because ‘he
regard.”

self confia
3 adequate as he: feels:

His’ emt {onalized deals: ‘are not defined “in. terns of politics or
nationalities; ‘but ‘are determined by. a vague desire to help others who
need it. This combination can mislead him and get him into difficulty;
for example, his accomplice in the bank robbery. :

75. Subject is a rank individualist. He is a non-conformist.

However, he realizes he must cope With the community, must sacrifice for
the of the community, and mist not harm others. In this

regard it is unlikely that Subject has ever conmitted:physical assault,
: nor is it likely that he would in the future. No matter what the‘ other
person is or represents to Subject, he 15 stil] a human being whom :
Subject respects. :
76. Although Subject is basteally an exhibitionist, he 1s not
- taelined to bragging or to exhibit himself in a transparent or patent
fashion, He 1s too sophisticated. However, he needs attention and 1s
Likely todo things in order to get attention, This is what he did in
- 18 schools., :
77. As was previously mentioned, Subject helped French prisoners
get back to France during the war. He thought it was the right thing to
do but did not- do {t Just for Prance. He was paid for it but he gave
his money to help the prisoners. In terms of his hierarchy: of motives,
it 1s likely that this person acts according to what he considers to be

right.

He also expresses self pride in doing the outstanding, ‘the difficult,

eo


necessarily being paid. He acts Gul

Luiltary;. snd intense. “He Likes the dsiericans by i
~ to analyze’ thie seitinent.” -He feels nuebieans Have tiadé Certain. -
“ipoLitieal mistakes-but they ‘reflected fundamental end. baste sincerity

He-understands the United ‘States has political interest

whieh’ he: Lik:
put he 1s wil sincerity of the

He is not looking for special compensation. Generaily; he 18

ling to go along out of admiration for the

‘pmericans.
quite willing ‘to do what is asked without rational reascns. In other
words; his motivation is typically emotional and is understandable in:
'

He feels that a person 15, capable

“terms of hig character organization.
He 1a inclined to put things on a acre

of doing anything for love ‘of nothing.
pérsonal basis. He doesn't belong to any comunity. He feels his early
on his way of thinking or on his way

years in Georgia have had no effect
which exists in America and the

of perceiving life. He likes the liberty

fact that people are treated as individuals rather than as numbers.

80. Subject’s motives are genuine and are compatible with his

jutlook on life. They are not, necessarily original or sophisticated but

they are personal and therefore: bona fie. ‘Furthersore, Subject is really
on the shelf in Gap. He 1s controlled in his movenents and is restricted
in his aspirations ‘and consequently is unable to realize his freedom and

to develop himself. 9s an individual. Consequently, the assignment preaictty
represents a unique opportunity for. him to rise above his present re-
stricted level of existence.

sitive person and he attaches great 1a-

Bl. Subject is a very
_ portance to events of life.


even ‘though he has Hot done: wrong. He wily do this Gut ‘of friendship

in order ‘to have othera féel greatful to him, He has thé’ attitude he
should be punished for doirig wrong, but should not be degraded for doing
right, subject has always realized that:he hae needed help as regards

nis emotional problems. He Likes: to be helped matertaliy,. not as-and it-
self, (2) ‘but because material help: involves the implication of moral

help. For example, a dentist in Gap offerfed to help Subject in his in-
ventions without asking for advantages. This means a lot to Subject. He
attaches small importance to money and he derives a tremendous satisfaction

out of helping others or being helped.
84. Subject reflects a tremendous vitality that has, in the past,

expressed itself through false attempts such as the bank robbery, etc.
He-feols he is not being used as he should and that there is a power

within himself, a creative urge of movement, a power of realization.

‘It/is highly emotionally charged and he feels he is capable. of. doing much

more than he has in the past. Although he feels he is a. cémplicated
person, he does not feel he is difficult to understand,

85. Subject. likes ‘to act intelligently and’ sensibly. He strives

for efficiency. For exampie, haxtsxx if aiperson were to ask him to open

a window, he féels it is up to him to decide as regards the proper method.

‘The efficiency plus the results are his rewards. Consequently, he likes

practical work which involves an intellectual effort.



‘subject: Was

n the WOth of. January

88. -anéther important aspect of his relationship with us appears to
be the fact that he consciously or unconsciously feels he has “arrived”
and in-acceptable te us. In other. words he feels that perhaps a decision
hasbeen mi le which ‘ts ‘in his favor, This réflects his own desire to-be
accepted together with his estimation of. the situation, :

89. This individual, despite his past explotts, ts not necessarily.
a hostile person. In other words he will not. do harm nor will he hurt
others who are weaker than himself. He will act out cf exigency but he
will deliberately avoid being sadistic or wantonly cruel.

90. : For some reason Subject exhibits a marked degree of loneliness
and isolation at this time, He seems to be seeking cospanionship.

Ql. Subject prefers to work alone as regards technical research, but
as regards the execution of an operation he prefers to be with someone or
Part of an organization. He knows he can rely upon himself when he its
alone and that others had been unreliable in his past. However, 1f it is
necessary for him to work with two or more individuals, he will accept it.

92. Subject ‘admits of physical inferiority feelings by virtue of his
size and strength but he denies he has feelings of intellectual inferiority.
He. depends more upon his mental faculties than upon his physical. "I have
no fear of an elephant if I have a gun.”



not regand’hinselt es an’éxpert “6r ~
He realizes his short comings and'he Hopes his will be
complemented by training.

97. Subject relies quite heavily upon humor for relief of tension
and asa defense: against the development of anxiety and inter-personal
relationshfps.

98. An important’ aspect of this man's personality and history would
appear to. be his so-called accident pronéness. He 1s like the cat in the goa
Disney f11m who, while chasing thé mouse and having his entire attention
directed to the catching and incorporation of the mouse, inadvertantly
gets himself run over by a truck. His first reaction to being splattered
by the truck is one of disappointment as regards not arriving’at the goal;
1 catching the-mouse. He thereupon acts “upon feelings of revenge on

the mouse for having caused his unfortunate accident. . In addition, this

* example signifies that Subject is likely to keep his eye too much upon the a

goal: and insuffictently upon the hazards involved in reaching the goal. It
may be argued that Subject's philospphy in his past operations are related
in some manner to his lack of attention to such details. His history is
that of the unlucky cat who manages to get himself run over successfully.

99. This person can be quite discomposed by the surprise of un-
expected occurrences.

100. Despite defeat Subject 1s able to pick himself up, figure things
out, start all over in a more systematic way, and continue in his pursuit
of his-goal. Consequently, he does learn by experience. His mistakes are


SRY .

*stupid®-or iapulsive

ay cd to the fact: that he 18 or Has “been
jamature and ‘ineipertenced. -

immediate reaction tote turn aiound and go away without: having solved
thé problem. |-Consequently, he needs-a person. of greater intelligence who
1a able to help him to evaluate the realities of his situation or
predicamént. It must be kept in mind that his self-preservation is
stronger than his desire to solve probleas.

102. Subject 1s likely te be loyal to a superior and may even be
critical of himself in relation to.the supericr. ‘In other words, he would
Like to be as useful as possible in order to express his loyalty, but may

feel inadequate in that he requires the pretection of his superior.

103. ‘This person puts no stock in emblems or signs of rank or
reputation. He regards such signs as identifying labels only and is not
impressed or motivated for glory symbols. If he were to accomplish an
outstanding feat, he would not want a medal -- all he. would want was a
remark’ from-an important figure to the effect "well done, thank you.”
He feels it is sufficient only for him to know he has done well.

104. Subject will attempt to assume leadership on the team but
it may be that if his partner ts ‘superior, he would be a better follower
than he would be a leader of a.less adequate person. He is-more of a c
dependent than independent person in terms.of his inter-personal relation- 7
ships; furthermore, he acts on sentiment and impulse and consequently i
his judgment is questionable. This would indicate that he would work
better with a more soher-minded, calculating individual. He is likely



7 ‘ pe 0
‘Subject’ satisfies all these criterta.
. do not necessarily vitiate his positive features.



TROQUE’. -
oe
ie orn di 16 OT li

as yw sty.
te gaat 94.
“yEROduE 20D 2-DEC, HESTON MADE INITIAL CONTACT AND QuTHMAN

NO HANDLING:  WIROGUE GIVEN POLLOVING INSTRUCTIONS? .

As BUILD COVER DURING INITIAL PERIOD. THIS RESPECT, WIROGUE -

SAID PLANNED set UP SHOP WITH. AUTOMATIC CAMERA TO TAKE IDENTIFICA-

-/ T10N PICTURES. "SAID WOULD INSTALL POLAROID CAMERA SO CLIENT COULD |
" pUSH BUTTON AND: TAKE OWN PICTURE. -GUTHHAN AGREED THIS WORTH,

EXPLORING, AS WOULD APPEAR PROVIDE INEXPENSIVE COVER.

ee TOLD TRY spoT PERSONS FOR SURVEILLANCE TEAM [NTEL

‘assets vith EXPHASIS ON ORIENTALE PROVINCE) AND Pa ASSETS.
ANDIDATES TO STATION FOR TRACES

HE

TOLD SUBMIT NAMES. ANY LIKELY ©

PRIOR MAKING APPROACK.
2. QJWIN WHO RESIDES SAME HOTEL AS WIROGUE REPORTED LATTER

FOLD HIM HE HAD.LIVED ALASKA, JAPAN, SOUTH AMERICA, GERNANY AND
OTHEREPARTS pororé. “OUVIN SAID WIROGUE SHELLED AS THOUGH HE IN
GINTEL BUSINESS, STATIGN DENIES ANY INFO ON WIROQUE. 14 DEC QJVIN

SEIS PROMISED, —__ Cony No



“DID NOT ADMIT TO HAVING TRIED RECRUIT HIM.

CFRANCS BUT IT STILL. PARKED NEAR HIS HOTEL.

4. AT AS DEC MEETING vIROGUE SAID HE PURCHASED CHRYSLER FOR

75002 FRANCS. MADE NO MENTION PURCHASE OTHER CARS. ALSO SAID HAD
RENTED TWO STORES, ONE IN LEOP EUROPEAN CITY FOR 14002 FRANCS

PER MONTH AND ONE IN NATIVE CITY FOR 6980 FRANCS PER MONTH.
HAS SIGNED CONTRACT FAR APARTMENT FOR 8000 FRANCS PER MONTH.

ALSO
ASKED

GUTHMAN FOR THREE THOUSAND DOLLARS RENTAL ALLOWANCE WHICH HE CLAIMS.
“ot

HOS CASE OFFICER TOLD HIM HE WOULD RECEIVE IN LUMP SUM. GUTHMAN’~

\ .
"REFUSED, SAYING WOULD HAVE OBTAIN HOS APPROVAL PAY RENTAL ALLOWANCE

: IN LUMP SUN.

IN DISCUSSING ‘Locat CONTACTS, WIROGUE MENTIONED QUWIN BUT
THEN GUTHMAN TRIED

5.

LEARN WHETHER WIROGUE HAD MADE) APPROACH LATTER CLAQMED HAD TAKEN

NO STEPS. GUTHMAN WAS UNABLE CONTRADICT, AS DID NOT WISH: REVEAL

OUWIN CONNECTION KUBARK.
6. LEOP CONCERNED-BY WIROGUE FREE WHEELING AND LACK SECURITY.

STATION HAS ENOUGH KEADACHES WITHOUT. WORRYING ABOUT AGENT WHO NOT

etlaenesta cl BY OTHER 1 a ae OFFICE is atdboleel Mele



BELIEVE HE SHORT “FUNDS. uso REgUEST instmuetiois wrrodie Pay. |

- LATTER SAYS HIS CONTRACT. CALLS FOR FIVE HUNDRED DOLLARS SALARY. PER:
2 woNTH. SAID HE NOT PAID FOR NOVEMBER. STATION GAVE HIM ONE

PAYMENT FIVE HUNDRED DOLLARS, MOVEVER WISH HOS CONFIRMATION THIS

"CORRECT AND AUTHORITY PAY HIM IN DOLLARS PER HIS: REQUEST. (WANTS

DOLLARS as BLACK MARKET EXCHANGE RATE WHICH USED BY MOST PERSONS.

HERE TWENTY TO FORTY PERCENT BETTER THAN OFFICIAL RATE).
‘8. NOT ABLE PICK UP LETTER CREDIT PER REF A. WIROGUE SAID HAD

GIVEN IT TO HOFHUI FOR RETURN TO BANK AFTER HARKING IT CANCELLED,

“END OF MESSAGE

cs COMENT: * WIROGUE 1 °ETA LEOP 2-DEC. HAS LETTER OF CREDIT For 12,000 SWISS

FRANCS.

bescieraalbay BY OTHER sab eT OFFICE is PROHIBITED ”



CLASSIFIED. MESSAGE. - dag.
8-E-C-R-B-T

~ 7 ‘ sie 4

FROM: DIRECTOR” : & i rs

toner: C/AF 3 Brae
COP, C/ci, C/el 2, s/e-2:

~ ROUTING

Ay FIVE: HUNDRED DOLIAKS gk WONT BEGKINTNG ‘ORE HOV. 1B Pa
TN FIELD. YOUR DISCRETION TO PAY IH DOLLARS, HE nor PArD FoR Nov Parox :
TO DISPATCH. OGTAW RECEIPTS “AwD CHARCE PROTECT.

3B. ‘THREE THOUSAND DOLIAR QUARTERS ALLOWANCE PER ANNUM, NOH’ ACCOUN-
‘TABLE. | “=

c. FOUR THOUSAND DOLLAR OPS LOAN TO SEY UP COVER BUSINESS 10 BB .

REPAID FROM PROFTTS. ALSO MUST ACCOUNT FOR’ ONE THOUSAND TEN DOLLAR
‘TRAVEL ADVANCE RECEIVED.

2. INSTRUCTIONS WERE TO MAKE COREACT AND FOLLOW GUTEMAN'S THSTRUCTIORS
IMPLICTILY.. ‘MISO REPORT ACCURATELY ALL COMPACTS OR POTEFTIAL AGENTS AND Hor
MARE ANY APPROACHES OR COREDERTS WITHOUD PRIOR APPROVAL .

3. SHARE GUTEMAN'S CONCERN AND RECOMMEND TELE, WIROGUE HE OH PROBATIOH
AND MUST TOR THE MARK OR ELSE RECALL, AND ‘TERMINATION.
HE LIVING UNDER FALSE DOCUMENTS.

POINT OU? IP NECESSARY

SELEASING OFnices

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE.ISSUING OFFICE |S PROHIBITED. ‘Copy No.



CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

Pome. oO Be —
SONI: - : “ -) Six-ck gz. SOUS.
3a

may

ETE DR,

jer
f t
. fan.
epopoinar ae erties ear/w

trieasino opticer : AurMeNTicaTiNa offcee
¢ ee BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED. - Copy Wo.



18 Rovember

e


y

STATEMENT ‘oF
soit

onary

5. Aste Without: Poy
$. Hospital, tisurance, Credit Union
7. Overpayment

* 8 Tox Deduction Change

9% Allowances 7

‘
__] 10. ‘
PAYMENTS ondor |
suru our DESCRIPTION :
TION DAT :
ACTIO ATA ‘HFUNDS DUE © ASTERISK Denotes othor

' Om EmnLOvEE thon Normal Salary
i a : i
: jo
' N TOTALS f

Ry NET PAY [ PD. et HDGTS, nl

fe

{QRS 1315 use euevious eomons

‘



oe ane SECRET.
itty _., “PROJECT APPROVAL

RETIOW

a ee

awenomeur

7
oisTRIGUTION

ag

OPERATING DIVISION
orricen |

CHIEF OF SUPPORT

FiNance uncer
Division OrvstON

Gerovere Pmcviou® SECRET A-2I34¢ 77

325" 849 SSihone



bak CT
1, C#3

ope. {190 rt coii}

stp lis tee

&
NOB,

'

1 Sangre oP Seeger Smee ers


*DISSEMIAATION SAME AS RE!

(CED CASLE,

GRITY 1 SHOULD ADVISE HOF HUIS THA

Copy No.


Ps oa

¢ awe ioPnive Se celeste eed dee tee
‘BLP. 1690 intersted ~“beopeldvilie, 13 Becentre 1650

Leopoldville
Republique du Coago

Baik und. Fi iadtstat
Bousagnace Tf" EME.
5 series 7 :

NE ra BHAT

cfc eee
yenea), Ge. ake qan a6 tatt b oo
~dgcusds-enwle-tenletent Ia Botiey de opeaite~ |
BT Sei oatoe cae tt ca de cat

= 7 MrjReiner pour un montaat de douse mille 2 ouisses.
‘ la valour de lo dite lettre cet sctuellezent Sfto 11,600.
Cotto lettre a é¢6 annulée par une lettre do iriBeinor
dont je vous prie de vouloir trouver Ltosiginal ei-=jointe:

Jo ce réfre egaloseat d la coaversation
téléphenique da hier, par lagaslie Je vous ai déaandd.
s'il y avait provinion suffigesnts pow oouvrir le abdqua

364094 H*ayans pas roca votre fatrecetion $61éphort qua
au jourd’hat, je suppoco que l'affaire eat en gles
Foutefois je voue ronorcie pour votre interventions

Batretespa 7° vous desande do tenir & ma
aiepeaition le montant da dousa aills franca oulecse.

'2@ réception do votre coafireation & ¢a Bujet, jo vous _
forat parvenir les instructions ultérieuros. ‘| aaee

Ba vous remoreiagt A l’avance pour votre proapte
attention, je veus pris d'agréor, Bessieura, 1 assurance
¢do ma ocaaidération distiagués, oe

B.Hofhuio


Lpopsravitle, 14 'decemsrs 19¢0

Hessiours,

wee ag,

=e Gehte A pa lettre du 13, gourants je vous
‘o” @0u8 co pli égnlehent un -sh®qos B°:3,410;7°>-
tiré eur votre Banque par Mr, P.G,Rsiner ef pour un
montant do Sfréj 3.000.

ss Voules vous avoir 1'ob! anco de garder

if ogalement lo montant de co ch®que & ma disposition.
: Au eas, ou i] y aurait uno manquo do provision, jo

vous demande de me regournes le ab®qus 2° 30416.

Au plaiéir de lire votre. confirzation A
oa-oujet, je vous prie d’agrdéer, Hesatours, aos
aslatations distinguésa.

B.Bofhuts

C/o 016 & 6®
Bee. eat
Isopoidvillo

' Rope du Gongo -

ee ee coaches easel



Lerrite ne Cutie N yo a aaa RaW

PE ye a YR Ray LA

BEREE 29 neveabre i960.-

‘A nod torreszoatants Fant aur la page Nos}.

£79492 12,000,- «+ DOC2B MILLE FRANCS: SUISSES
LLL

Me. whic tee Le Lge Od IHS

rok Be

vf
esol payroll he:



St ek Ri ies HS enc eae a cue!

We al.

” ole purged
’ ,
onsiour Goorg Franz REINER®
SESE HE reef eats Tepe ae ane ne aa aaa

fraise 12,000.->

" DOUZE MILLE FRABCS SUISSES

MUAHHH

ees tre Bey ee eee
i Alt RAM
il
Bal pens conn?
tor tro + ad
Lye

air. a3 nae

ENE A co Ree on ree

eo pe

wy

Seortetreans

ye



Shit gt ee eee
i Guu Ao rave
fh

foe ee F

} ?,

Chatiyaind “tea ugh |
Wey a Sa ;
\2. Buy - oy

eel kath = Mille ttl of Bulc
4 8 fo-299¥77

e


tof

CSET God

Una Weaeas, (s >

: V3: ee Reserva gta” cide fists 429 PtbarnCa
y atl Vets ug,
Lol Te Oa levels Coat Feel ET

Sat ou

aag ciasg Ams Heviews [Chod/ Mees

sqse jas. Ri Ro le Vnyracd\ aan
YS. NAS A Poten (Wwe © - ats : :


succésa of an BW letter depends 50% won the uncttrusive "normley” ofthe :

open text and 50% upon the preparation of the Gy text itself.

3. Terstnal Fvalustion -< i
a. WIROGUE denonstrated that he could adequately prepare letters
‘bearing a carbon-type secret ink weich vould meet operntioml require- -
Bents. He is a very meticulous vorker and possesses a high degree of
“ mamual dexterity-~cnbidextrounly, yet!

B: He quite adequstely mastered the éeveloyment procedures for his
assigned receiving systes.

4, The agent's training opeoifically covered the folloving:
8. Writing techniques vith @ carbon-type ink

bd. Scorch development of SW
c. Steminrd defense measurce for carbon-ink writing
4. Use of glancing Light in defensive and offensive examination

Relative placeacnts of the SW and overt texts on the lettersheet

f. Discussion of cover letters and indicators.

dire ZYILTT

t





Attachment: i
Contract - MAYCRINK

Dictribution:
2- Leopaldville

Jol.

RAd¥77



Mr. Eroeet G, Mayerisk cae te ae
oo :
Dear Mr, Maycriadd
eee Blip fis
“Eftectivs Saeesoee 1960, all coocr'srtey oral or writien, ty abd between

you.and the United States Govermnent yao represented by the Contracting Officer,

aro boreby. terminated by miutdal coczect of the parties thereta, “and in lieu thereof

Che followizg agteement ie substituted, ©

The United States Government, ax represented by the Coatzacting Officer,

hereby. Contracts with. you as ‘an 1 Ladepenident contr actor- for the -tlbmtsston of

Jeerata information and ‘related... services. ofa ncoaneendet nature under ‘the foitéwing

“manaer as you may direct in writing, the following}
"(+ -ta) Basie compensation is an amouet calculated at the rate of $6000 per anaum,
~~ 48) Additional compensation 1s an amount calculated at the rate of $3000 per

annum for cost~of-lving expenses ({nbiuding quarters), effective upen your

arrival at and applicable only to your contemplated ¢ permancat post. of assigoment

overseas, Quarters will not b+ furnished you nor will you accept quarters pro-
vided by a cover facility without prior amendment of this agroement,

2, Taxes, Montes paid you directly or gnaranteed by the Government under

” this paragraph conseltute income for Federal tax purposes, You will bs advised as
#0 the method to be ‘followed in reporting and paying such taxes, The method as wel
as the procedures used by this orgacizatioh to implement fa tax pipsease respons! -

_Milltles will be based primarily upon cover acd security requirements, "You hereix
- gurkorize thie organization to withhold taxes on said tncome if it determines lean
“requirements ao neceealtate,

3. Travel, ? .

4, Operational Expenses, You will be advanced or reimbursed furde for neces ~

‘ eary operational expenses as apecifically approved and Annctally limited by the



Mie retoguised tat your fatiare to uvount for or refuad acy

monies advazced you hereunder aial ext! rane Ge uvernmesi to aithhold the total

indebtedness

emopict of »

the terms of this contract th auch mance ae it deems appropriate, .

1» Negotiated Benefits. @ my) ad In the’ perforinance of activities under pus

ary portion the fed! from acy monies due you wider

agreemesi; you Lecur ax lajury or flinése waich fe aot the Fen

t of your gross

Degligence, Willful misconduct, of intemperate act, the Government will provide

medical, surgical, hospital, transportation and Geabllity, benefits to such arhounts
“ena undér such conditions as the Goveramént In Its gole dlscretion deems propes{:

i provided, however, that such benefits qhiall not exceed.a total af $5900.fot the eame

under ‘and your death io not the resili of your grasa negligence, willful mlecouduct
“ ‘or intemperate act, the Government will pay the sum of $5000 to your beneficiary{ies)®

lees any amount paid to you wader oub-paragraph (1) above If such injury or ilizess

“ vesulted ts your death, provided that oald beaefictary{les) is-accepiable tothe Govers
ment at the time-such payment Ls to be made, ‘An acceptable beneficiary hereunder
fe an individual to whom payment 8 the U:5: Government can be made without

. Conflicting with its avowed principles and ideals,

i
i

(b) Outstanding performance by you under this agrees |

ment ‘and your fulfillment of obligations hereunder jo an efficient manner will result

in the Government undertaking your resettlement {n an area mutually agreeable to

both parties, to the eatent deemed appropriate by the Calted States Government.

7, Executien of Documents, If, tn the performance of services under this
e€ontract, you assume the custody of Goveramert funda or take ttle of record to

property of any nature whatsoever ard wherever situate, which property has in fact

been purchased with monies of'the US, Government, you hereuy recogiise and :

acknowledge the existence of a trust retation:

pe cither express or co: structive,-

and you agtee to execute whatever documenta may be required by this organise

to evidence taly reiationshtp,

8, (Status, You are siot an employee | at the United States Government under this

.. &greement and’are not entitled to any beacfite normaily incident te an empisyce status,!

(2) If you die tn the performance of activities here~)



"You hereunde> may be funded

any way amplify. extead or restrict your Fight

cout

eet manner:

80 fended co

ed that any mori

by the Ge

of tte obligations under th:s agreeme

10. Cover. (a) itis anticipated chat you will undertake a cover ventcre in the .

course of your period ender au as apreemeént. Such venture mist be approved

by the Appropriate Government Fepresensative orerdeoing your actiyitios prior to its

initiation. © Any tal all documents which you may execute in the ebureesol paid cover

ment and any contradiction tn terms which. ‘a

vouture. are wibrditnts 8 to 'thia age

and/or optigations ‘héroubder ena

be teaol wed’ by thle agreement which shail: always be dori taainaa

{b) To Provide capital tor y your approved cover venture ‘the Goversiment ;

oan you $4000 to be ecured by & néa-intorest bearing ‘promisory note, payable :

7 on demand. ° Said loan will be deposited to-an account lao fordign bank and a $3000

ister of credit will be fenued you agains? thal deposit, The additional $:000 will be

voleseed {rom said account, after approval by the Governmeni representative over=

a@eoing your activities.

: (c) You will eubmit to the Government quarterly income and expense

nOele on the cover venture acd copias of all tax roturne filed in conaection
therevith. Your cover accounts shal! be kept saparite and distinct from the bask
aécount into which your persona! compensation payments are mada. 1

{d) You heroin agree that eonies loaned you by the Goverament dha!l

be repsid from the profite of tho cover venture, in amounts .and at periodic intervals

to be eatablisted by the Government representative oversoeing your activities. After

said lean hee beon completoly repaid and ail other obligations, “each as local taxes,
etc. y. have been made, you may retain any further profit derived trom said cover
venitira. However, it is clearly understood and agraod Bar your primary obligation
under this agraement is the performaace cf Governmental activities,

AL Seerecy. All information related to this agreement eee through
teafructiona, thie insirument, or otherwise, Ie secret arid shail not be divulged to
any Person, organisatian or government in any form or manner, except ap
sathorised by the undersigned Coniractiag Officer execating ‘this agreément. (It is
greed that any revelation whstaceve? of the above information will couatinuts and

mt and will resuir in farieiture by

be'an iromediate and fina! breack of ry


you of apy

agrsement.”

and la your official +

jane, Durisg the term of tt agreement,

42, Ins

Dudiness capacity you herein agreé to-act te conformance with lestractons, oral

oF written given you by aut thoFlaed represent atives . this organizadicn,

13, Unauthorized Commitundats, No promises or commitments peftaintagto:

rights, privileges or fe ta other thin those expressly ati pilared in writing inthis.

agreement or any amendment thereto shail be blading Sm thie organization,
i

This contract a effective as of tt Noverber 1900, and shall <nitnue.

alter for a pertod of two (2) years unless sooner terminated be the Geverament

acetal aoticeta you from the Goveraminnt, ‘or.

(bd) Without! prior aatie'es in the eveat of abréach of this contract. by your,
» olition of the security provialons hereof or by your otherwise rendering
yourself unavailable for acceptable service,

thie agreement may be exmded upon”

Subject to the avallabitity of appropriations,

hotice from the Governmeat, In the event of voluntary Casale ou your part or

“termination for cause by the Government prioz to the expiration of this agreement

or any renewal Redan you ie pot be entitled to retura travel expensed to the

United States, Termination at thie agreement vill not release you from the. obligat! va

azy security oath you may be required to take:

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
pe

BY__.
Contracting Oifleer © -

“ ACCEPTED}

:Evneot G, Maycrink : .

WITNESS}. . i : ; ee a



cfso 2 C7 FO, NOTIFIED 1812-12 DEC 60)

FO oc/aF, sft 2.

pr ir a8

# DIR 18116 qNOT SENT LEOP) (a 9S782)> iananiian

Sw t504 >) |
1. BY CHANCE DURING VISIT “GRAHAM WITH IN

= 153@ HOURS MONDAY 12 DEC INTEGRITY 1 RECEIVED PHONE CALL

ITY J LATTER*S

M LEOPOLDVILLE FROM A PNY HOFHUTS.

2. NOFHUIS TOLD INTEGRITY.1 HE HAD HIS POSSESSION CHECK SIGNED
BY GEORG Fj REINER FoR swiss FRANCS 12,¢f¢, : ALSO HAS LETTER
CREDIT, PAYABLE REINE2 AND SAID REINER GAVE TO HIM FOR-SECURITY

UNTIL CRECK PAID. HOFHUIS ASKED INTEGRITY LIF HE wouLD PAY : ‘ ’
CHECK. WHILE HOLDING HOFHUIS OTHER END PHONE‘ INTEGRITY { ASKED
SRAHAM FGR INSTRUCTIONS,

3. ER CIRCUMSTANCES GEAdaM TOLD INTEGRITY 1 TO STALL ca ‘

HUIS BY TELLING HOFHUIS WOULD PHONE Him AT Livr 2839 ¢ wHiCh

HUNGER SUP! TED BY HOFHUIS) AND SAY IF WCULD Pay CHECK, HOFHUIS
SAID WOULD WAIT EXACTLY 25 HOURS FOR INTEGRITY: PHONE CALL
4s NOFHUIS WOULD NOT TELL INTEGRITY WHY HE HAD REINER'S

Copy No,



AND LETTER CREDIT.
rsTRI nae

i 5. “REQUEST IMMED ADVICE -ON WHETHER OR NOT INTECRITY 1 SHOULD” -
TELL HOFHUTS HE GILL PAY CHECK BEARING MIND LETTER OF CREDIT Is
IRREVOCABLE. AND INTEGRITY 2 OBL GED. PAY Face AMOUNT EVEN EF. -
CHECK HONOREDS : _ :
fe

TRYING 'r0 por wy DOES nor. ‘REINER NEcoTIATE LETTER cnr:

LOCAL BANK®: “WE FEAR ales IMPLICATIONS JEOPARDIZING OUR -

SOURCE IF CHECKS WRITTEN REINER FLOAT AROUND LEOPOLDVILLE OR

“* NEGOTIATED BY -HOFMUIS BY MEANS ILLEGAL PRESENT CONGO GOVERNMENT
REGULATIONS « :

END OF HESSAGE
+ CS COMENT: “OISSEMIRATICN APPLICAGLE TO RYBAT SGFLAG CABLES.

REPROOUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING’ 5 az i ‘PROM ATED.


CLASSIFIEC MESSAGE
eae zi
{ SECRET

Tl 352

{
joyeieec) 3060)
f
|
1

ici: DIRECTOR :
"c/o 2 if

OM eATIONAL
Tam DIATE *

_-quts2272

Our. So2}2.

CONF:
NFO 4 C/AF,, $/C.2

(is ison) > o-
IWTEGRLTY 1 SFOULD ADVISE FOAMS CHECK 1S :GO0D, “CASH sok MO Rerun

terme CREDIT TO REIMER,
FOR LEOP. CONTACT REINER, F PICK UP LETTER CREDIT 48D POUCH BERN FOR

2.
- DISPOSITION. oe
: EXO OF HESSAGE
cs SSCHINATION SAME AS REFERENCED CASLE.
at “oy REFERENCE. ‘posstpLy(_____] (IN 1973)
TION
pee
r
OF cootDIMATING OFFICERS si

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING ‘OFFICE 13 PROMIGITED.


«a CLASSIFIED MESSAGE ees

: ; ee
587 : é L ROUTING.
229 NOW, : i
DIRECTOR f

eeea | ae
cor, c/cr, cfr 2 “efi 2, C/aF 3,8 /5'

ROUTINE

ETA. LEOP 2 DEC. - WILL CONTACT. <-KAS-

“LETTER OF CREDIT FOR 12,020 surss FRANCS.
20 “ROISTADE ETA HOS 1 DEC. ‘

i

END OF MESSAGE

Bs Last 77

: : “REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE 1S PROHIBITED. Copy No.

a


a.

signed then.
to travel from West Germany to Leopoldville, Congo,

3., It is requested that the subject documentation be retumed to ‘TSD/1B

“t 1 ue

Chter, Atrice we

SECRET RYBAT

TB MEMO 0. 5238
29, Hovenber" 1960

Leite

fet a) Bay
weat/2 ce

“Austriaa Passport Wi

a. Baptism Certificate

e. Business Letter from.Arthur Doll and ‘Son, Berlin -
f. Pocket Litter - Brouchers, Austria, West Berlin
General. Information’.on Documentation Cover Story

e-
h. Itinerary as reflec

io. 546206 : .

Austrian Driver's License.
.¢» International Certi:

ficate of Véecination

ted in Passport

4. Explanation of Passport Entriés
i truction for Signing Documentation

The documentation (above items, a,b,
It is our understanding that WIROGUB w!

when no longer needed for operational purposes.

Distrd)

‘tion:

friginal endl - Addressee

SECRET_RYBAT——

a

4a to‘caatira thie inden ying of the e folloving Austrian Bocwmeatation
on 18 Noveuber 1960: : :

c,) is to be aged after WIROGUE has
411 use subject documentation
via Switzerland and Italy.

2y3¥T7


me
orgs L z

“units G/APWEST ”

ers 397.

pate 23 NOVEMBER 1960

'qo.+ wuerinr, [—_]
‘grOms DIRECTOR #
CONF: c/aF 7

» COP. c/Ee.3,,8/¢ 2°:

‘UP WITH le eis fe i

spe] €e,
gE, ER EPS] coorodaniwe- one *
-  SetbABING OFFACEE SECRET ROTHENTIEATING: OFFICER 3 +
“+, REPRODUCTION By OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIREDY” 0 Copy Nee s+

LL BIGP7

' +



P.O. Rex SY

Cove Sit a
Nowe 3, Ney A

.-* 82 November’ 1960

10! Chet; Africs Diviston” :
aF/W/2, 2110 I Butading
FROW + Deputy Director of Security (Investigations and Support)

SUBJECT. i LETTER ADDRESS \
229496 \

1, Reference is made to your menorandun dated 9 November’ 1960
Fequesting the eatablishnent of a post office box in New York City
in the name of Clifford N. MIRKINSON

fol ATTER. . ¢

ao 2, This will confirm advice furnished your office on 18 Novenber 1960
: that the requested address has been established as follows?

Clifford N. MIRKINSCN
Post Office Box Su

Canal Street Station.
New York 13, New York

3. This address will be maintained ¢, finite period
and will te serviced twice wear h extension 6284 >
will be nctified upon receipt of mare

4. Non-registered, first class and air mail, bearing the above
address as a return address, may be mailed by you at any convenient
letter box in the area where this facility is established, Registered
rail and parcel post should be forvarded to this office for secure
railing. Any mail having special security significance should be co-
ordinated with this office prior to mailing. Mail bearing the above
address as a return address should not be handled by the Central Mail

5. It is requested that you advise this office when the above
address is no longer of use to you, Any inquiries concerning this
facility should be directed to the SH/3 Desk of this office, Room ISM
I Building, Extension 3933. 1ho9

FOR THS DIRECTOR OF SECURITY: y

AH AE SE

SECRET

dere 2BSY77



a

SECRET

~ i i RECEIET FOR AUTHENTICATION MATERIALS

“po: -tsp/tB : : pate 28 Bovenber 1960. |
THEREBY ACKNOWLEDGE RECEIPT OF THE FOLLOWING AUTHENTICATION MATERIALS
‘TRANSMITTED WITH MEMO NO. DATED “___AND PREPARED IN

‘ACCORDANCE WITH:

Attidavtt of Tdsathty ta Uew of Passport Hoi '0ST2. tsoued

OFFICER'S SIGNATURE

WI R0GVE

NOTE: Authentication’ Materials must be returned to TSD/IB as soon as the intended operational use
has been fulfilled; unused documents, whether filled in or blank, must be retumed to TSD/IB

“ween no longer needed.

TSD/IB should be notified if any of the Authentication Moterials are destroyed, lest. or for any
ouker reason can no longer be returned.

Dooi SECRET fare D9VE??


SBCRET : TT NOY too

* Chief,. Finance Division
‘Monetary Branch
Opening Benk Accamt for Cearg Franz REDER |

iehy requested ‘that ian Acestint be: Opened end oun of

2: fecdiitete the transeétion and expedite this request, |
“Denfel-Rs Hiesciur and Georg Franz Reiner Will be: in Bern.ca 28 Noveaber.
oe Rissciur-vill contact. the. station’ end vill ect as en intermedlary *
between the Bern Stistion and REINER vho ie a contract agent. af

3+ Your ansistance in this matter vill be greatly appreciated.

Bronson ‘Tweedy.
Chief, AP Division

BECRE®

atte %

: : 331477



es : fe

a= CLASSIFIED MESSAGE Z aaa
ry - il SECRE? | fas ROUTING :

| OPERATIONAL
IMMEDIATE -

,
Q '

- 2 ~ e

FHM, DIRECTOR Pe 4 fe

: : 5
| CONFe 7

©

t

INFO + : cop, C/ee 34 sie 2

fesseet RET] ERB) Bat

is aon mas Pins MAT BM VSGOTRS CANOE 73S : a

: LETTER OF GREDTE coscO FRANCS. ae oso GAN DA's DOE TH

wm}

END GF MESSAGE.

aeléefer
COORDINATING OFFICERS o/e

- AUTHENTICATING OFFICER = “0
CRE? al

, REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED. : . CopyNa -*

Orrncet



CLASSIFIED MESSAGE >

Ne J
5 Be Rov 60" CRET
4 0 - 'x,_-DIRECTOR ace
: fiom “s ~ EBANKEURT: -
: neti IM : ce i :

Sebo, C/E 3, S/c 2, 8/08 2:

ETD FRAN 1638 LOCAL 23.NCVEYBER VIA nats

FLIGHT 424. ETA ANDREWS 2900 LOCAL 24 NOVENBER. °

END OF MESSAGE
€8 COMMENT: @DISSEMINATION SAME AS REFERENCED CABLE.

re REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN "THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED. . Copy Now


FROM 1 FRANKFURT

FACTION Ci 3

“REF DIR 1

OR DAVE.

+ ¢/S COMMENT: "ROISTADE WOULD. RE
ERIEF WIROGUE PRICR TO LATTERS DISPATCH.

cop, ¢/ci,. ¢/Fl-2, C/Ts0

ED FRANXFURT CIVILIAN 521813 OR DA’

2. DESIRE PRIOR %

DIRECTOR

yoie Keel 93/09 :

1.° SAFE HOUSE AVATLABLEs “CALL

IDENTIFY SELF BY TRUE FIRST NAHE.

“BEF ORE ASSIGNING SAFE HOUSE.

1 END

REPRODUCTION BY: OTHER THAN

AR
2,-C/EE 3, S/C-2-y:

pILETARY 8324 AND ASK FOR ED

IF AFTER 1736 CALL

VE 5234665

EET WITH ROISTADE FOR BRIEFING CN CASE

MESSAGE

QUIRE SAFE HOUSE FOR FIVE DAYS TO QUARTER AND

tad
nis

a apne har
ee
“Tne ISSUING GEFICE 1S PROHIRITED. Copy No



DATE. 16 Hovénbed 1069 1
ose mummies Op
FROM: DIRECTOR £ y
“conte c/ar sits

INFO

oP; c/ée"3," 8/08 2, Sk 2. :

corte toe Co “

‘OPERATIONAL
__ IMMEDIATE,

cite oi

“12492
ened “12N3.

HRS LOCAL TIMR: PLS MET. .
i EAD OF MESSAGE
CS COMENT: *CONFIRMATION UNIT DETERMINED AS THOUGH INDICATOR FJOUST NOT USED.
**STATEL WIROGLE WAS BEING GAOOMED FOR DEEP COVER ASSIGNMENT LEOP LATE NOVEMBER.
2 ART 88
ocean inne SLR | cage
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED. Copy Now

ALLIBYI7


Pa

‘Gl SECRET

oc nee eee
ROUTING::AND RECORD SHEET —

SUBICT: (Omori) ee
s
2

- vaeassitin- OSM - CoN arta

. ACL=192
=" 22 ngy dso. 1960

Colmer. (Nabe eaik commit te hoe hom om |
ORS Thee cot calume cher ech comment)

" Ghiet, Afried Division |

rs 4 . . -
Aclc : 18 NOVIIS6O Wi

“eplceo | ae |

Jt
COP IAC

13, 610 Ase [] seceeT —C) conripenTiat CO) use omtr UNCLASSIFIED



‘the ‘first’ of Deceber. oa :
2... WIROCUE/1 hed-originelly boen-recrii ted ‘in’ Buropo far’ a/REDSOX operation.
Ho wee flown’ to PBFRDS.*black® and underverit an @xtensive training program,

= $his inoluded curvivel, mill erm end other similar typo FH training. After a

~ year of such training the project failed to materialize, as a result subject vas
Preparing for resettlenent in South Aneriea. The A¥/Diviston tock interest in
WIROGUB/1 end after an assesment decided that vith his peculiar beckgroud,
talent and general makeup he could effectivoly be utilized along the linss

cited in reference A. On 21 October 1960 the case was transferred officially to

» the Afrien Division.

3. Since that date to tke present, every effort bas been made to psycho~
logically orient WIROGUE/1 far this aealgmeent and to prepare hin operaticnally
for ita fulfillment, To insure the security of the operation, prevent any
identification with ODYOKS and/or MUBARE, end to preclude eny unexpected
qmoovery of VIROGUE/1"s past which would associate hin with bis pro-KUBARK life,
a iumber of basie stops veto takoa. ‘Theee vorer :

a. WIROGUE/1 wdervent plastic surgery, which changed the sheps of
his moss. :
be A toupoe had been made for his constant use. This ard tho

plaetie surgery have altered hin sufficiently to‘ obvinte any
recognition. :

Dietribution: ger-Ardyzz7

TERRORS Fk OMT

201-233477



{

* quell, energetic individ

iaanat in eeDOL AND RE

* ACLY~192

CONTINUATION OF H
DISPATCH H

eo: Dotimentettcn proprrad with sccomenying covar stary

to chew thet SIP K(E/2 42 en sustrian Gnd who bea never had CLYOR
comsectisna, nor over boen $n IBIEISE, (See cejerste cover -
attachaent A)e

be TA de plensicd ‘et this tes to teke SIRCCU/2 "bleck®. to Comming.
Tere He. vill te set by: tha tmidrelihod, elven hia Austrian Jocunsnitetion,
contact inetructians af > stripred of eny TEIEMZ clothing
or persdnal effects, ofd j iy to srocead to leo;oldville’an
Tha cover erat for. subjoct is

of opening a-photo: or reca-al repeir. shor.
Sort bat the dacision ta this” wo ed BY

operations Vy
al guar pfofite etter We loss ia paid

5 A wart about the senior of min vith vion ve ere dealing. Fe is a
ia, whohas displayed ‘abrevinesa, ctmine, inremity

and inventivencss, Be bas a peculiar turn of mind viich lemie itself recork—
Bly to nefarious and extra-legal cotivitios, Exeltensnt cal intrigue ore -
‘nportent feetors in his life, ho-reliches ft and os o result say be 4 little
dolinte to hatte, BTECCUS/1 Likes order abd clecr cut chine of comand.
Re adziren the Fruseiaa e;proach and as 2 result vill tako orders cven if he
may disasreo. It 4a icportent to-his to tee the trust and oanfidence of hie |
aco officer. If in kis om alnd he feels ascura! of wid and 1a confident
of the professional FUTE:-tyze cospetance af tio CO, he wil] rect zrocste tn
Kind, Feis inied evara of tho precepts of right and vrong, tut if he ts
given en aosigmant vhleh my be ocrally wrong in the cyeo of the vorld, but
necessary beccuso his cico officer orderal bin to cerry it cut, then it Ja
ripht onl be vill dutifully ustertaze approgrints action for its exocutian
withsut panes of consetorce. In o worl, he ean rationslize al) actiona. Cue
last thought which my bo vasful. Bert rogulte will probably be rotten Sf, 4
vben given an asalonmnt, he be peraitted to accomplish it in kis ovn vay. /
The latter 1a camectod with his {dea of trust and confidences.

GWELFS BR, RCISTADE

Attachzent A (unier saperete cover)



| 6 SEPRET oy

SEPAPATE COVER ATTAGDIGT A TO ACLIA192

\

Dictiaguiching marke: tips of forefinger. ond thuxb
. Right hand eilesing. Identical fingers left hand searrod.

2. Docusente will reflect trovol only in Bureza, vith no indication of
FOFRIKE tenure.

Bs ey
EG H ina 054 4p.



SECRET

(When Fatted pee

PROJECT ACTION

Divistoe

IMcaswent
nO.

FrELe STATION
faoyioldviile

106

corey

“Exrens tom

TERMINATION

[suTtb Ine

- “CONCH CES OF DIVISION. Et
TYPEDSWaNe. (and aianature) d DATE. |ogof SEvORanbum ATTACHES
" : S0:[vis] no | eare
Sock.
ZOOM
—
oO}
T_[rosler
ml hel
7 = = vole Of t
: — :
clas idectoctl
TONPORER =
es t COMPS
DnP/ Pe Zz Lh in, |_|
TPPROVAL
FERIeD. Tor AO Fy oun
re > ise TS
3> fpr cr fg 396_[$
sroagyine: nuTTORTT a one
ae a SECHET ™



ee

+ PTS" Reason Tor Cerdination: ‘ : e : :
7 : Subjects performace ana. lack 82 ope:
possiple 4 py the Congviese authority resoval fro:
: the arez Little or'no :
a : possibility to contd: aay
wrgosun/2 of
- bioroin

curt

Ly ee a ee


say

tulunee of ops

loin



tel]

SEOTET oo

Mi FOR: Chief of Opgrations, DD/P

SUBJECT 1 Progect’ WIROGUS ‘(1

. AR - Léopoldville.

1.) The attached. grosect,: or
Division, 's.oresented for. aphroval fo:
L Noveriber 1969: throuzan 3 October Deh

of the. oroject
public “or * Coriga tn, the fern of a “fore ‘sn

i nating in AF
a

asset in the
national contract agent who will -open a
in/Leospoldville.

2. Authority ts requested:to coligate $17,250

\/P-AP Division budget: 25) in fiseal year
2000 In fiscal year 1962 ublect to the avail-
ability of funds. The funds requested included
salary and allowances; 51,22
erations! loan; an

: 3. The attached oroject cutlin
the backcround-end concest of the proec
by.a fiscal annex. The agent,
rson who was ¢
Z 2 clack migsion tc the
project was postponed
andoned. In the interin
working with 75D st a covert site in cat
from East German documents and Gev
methods for picking locks. CU:
R ent tne period tras
He served fn the
tn °F 4O for work 1
German srisons. and
arrested
in Srance

Ji, is 2

or a REDSOX op-
R under “Project
ra year and in
5 been
information

in Georgia,
22 until world

volunteered
le tine in neentraticn camps

ie has a orison

ing, ss 2 camera tecnateian and in



“SEORE Ee

8 iso hgs invented various later saving
eal devices. ile has had practical e:

forgery and fabrication of decument WIROCUE/1

was broucht-to the U.Si bigeck” for training in connec

2 : igL operation., It is contemplated

thst ne wili be flown’ “black to West Gercany. where he

te surfaced as an Austrian citizen with a legend: of

a incvertous concerns in “west Germany subse

top Ifi—He-will proceed to. Leopoldville:

000 ‘operational loan, he w ena.

rots or regair shop which it 1s expected le give »

a decree of freedom of movenent and pro efor. covert,

eo:  Stols estimated that there is a need for techni-

- efans in’the Republic.of Congo at the oresent tine. The
project nas been coordinated with the Shief of Station,

Leopoidvilie.

goerdence in -

h, &opropriate Special Staff components concur
nding renewal. Both CI and PI Staff express
tein reservations in_view of the vackgr

jus nature of the avent, and enokestze tne necessity
Gxerelsing firm operational anc personel control over
hin at all times.

in recom
ce

SUE as

end aporoval
ifs

servation:

5. 2 recon

oregensed, and engorse the
noved in perazra 4 above.

nief, DD?/PG

TOP D/P



SECRET
PHOJECT ACTION VOVER SREET :
: HEADQUARTERS CASE OFFICER: i

- Rom Wo 2i10 T

_) Sernsow “goby

pAiR # ‘Wovesber 1960

jc Le Whuthortty te spequested"to oplieste ah 250.00 from! the ‘DoP/AF’) viv

on Budget : $13,250.00 FY.61and.$',000:00 FY'62. . ‘The finds. to cover the
‘amount requested FY-6l-will reed Within ‘the Divisioa ciirreat budget allo- .
cation. Period of-project ts‘froa 1 Novenber 1960 to 31 @ctaber 1962.

2. An GA, C-73532 was’ granted on 1 March 1959, and asiended 3 october

' i
3. Form 680 is attached. {
\

COORDINATION. i

ap pa (oni wei)

te haw te

Chief, AF Divisica

Jt- [6 -b? :

Date

SECRET


SECRET
‘ PROJECT OUTLINE
cryriomo = wrRocun/2
: i: Area of Operations and Purpose i .
: Republié of Congo (former Belgium Congo) - engage in operational support

activity.

2. Objectives : :
‘Ay “TS provide’a long téim; deep cover asset: ih the’ Republic of Congo and
adjacent areas. * - :

Be. fo-establich @ principle agent ta-the Republic of Congo, in order to

> paLla a-covert net ‘in aupport of operational activities.

_G. fo provide an asset for utility support for KUBARK personiel under
“". effieial cover. : 7 :

These objectives are in Line with the MD.

3. Personnel

“Al Pertinent Biographical Information

D0) - 0233477

Pseudonyn - GEER)
Place of birth - Gori, Georgia, USSR
Date of birth - 12 July 1928

” Sex - Male

Race - Caucasian

Religion - none
Marital status - Divorced (wife and 2 children - one son ‘and one daughter)

=. Citizenship - Stateless a

Education:

1922-28 Paris, Notre Dame, uncomp., change of family. address
1925 Faris, Lycee Mcntagne, uncomp., change of family addzess
1925 Paris, Ecole Ccrzale, uncomp., change of family eddress
1926 Viroflex, Lycee Hoche, uncorp.,. expelled for pranks

1926 Faris, Ecole Ccmmile, uncomp., change of address
3931 .Paris-Vanves, Ecole Michelet, 6 mo comp, expelled for.
insubordination

SECRET

bsaienaaay


‘SECRET
2-0/

qhale: &. Mere Jct eb Meter, Technical Engineering School,
attended one and one half years and expelied
1926-37 Paris, Ecole Sregsst, Blectro-Engineering, attendéd one
2 lyear earnedfirst nlf of Baccaularaute in electro
: *, technolégy then'-expelled
1938-39 Faris, School. of Photography and Movies, trained’ as cine
: " carera operator techiician, left after one and three
folirths of 8 tvo year course due to outbreak-of WW IT

An November 1939

uaanary History:

‘Dec''1939 - Paris, volunteeréa for French Foreign’ Legion“. °
Se. 194d, = Turis,-North Afficay “lst Cay. Regs: ist: Squsdron, “Sth
‘Platoon *
Feb isha = Sent to N.C.0. training course da Legion, pallea out to.
: ‘be reassigned’ to ‘all-Georgian init
© Mar-Aug 1940 + Barcares, assigned in Georgian unit
Aug 1940.- Faris, discharged at-end of Franco/Germam hostilities

Exploysent Bistory:

1942 - Paris, volunteered for work in Germany
PoeLitz, vorked for FIDRYSR WERKE for one year as “installation
electrician
Paris, self-employed at photo shop. Portrait ‘photography
Berlin, photographer of metals for a factory which produces
electrodes for velding instruments
Perlin, assenbly line vorker in Berlin factory producing steel
Qmmunition belts. Received commendation from factory
director for Istor saving device he minufacture of de-
vice for automtic adjustment of cartridge cases
Muegelhein, driver rechanics course for the NSKK (Nazi Party
Motorized Corp.) Drove trucks during construction of
Atlantic wall by Gerrans.
1943 - Berlin, exployed vith SCHUPOLIZEI as translator French-Cersan
: language
1945-47 - Paris, employed by Architects Carre Associated as electrical
installaticn planner and constructor of proto-type
model builder
1951-52 - Paris (in prison), devised and 801d on the French market a
pocket automtic transit indicator. Received cash
settlement for this vhile in prison
1953 - Rion (in prison), devised and gave to prison aacintstrator,
invention for.making cardboard boxes. Device vas built
and used by prison aduinistrator.
Dec 1955, to Apr 1956 - Gap, exployed by M.D. as X-ray machine main-
> “tenance technician and operator
1956-57 - Gap, invented, patented and sold a, calendar device tothe’
French courercial market

SECRET



SECRET
-3-

- 1958 = Ambert, ‘invented ‘ana patented.a commercial advertising device,
. photoeméchani¢al in nature; Models built and sold to
5 French advertising concerns
-1959-60"=' U.S., devised and passed drawings for two piecer of equip-
aeacoen ment for use in Project” AESENTINEL , i :
July 1960 - U.S.,. Presently vorking on'a low-cost telephone ansvering
device

‘Occupational Specialities

Mechanical electrical engineering : ae
Cine. or portrait photography

Research and innovation of labor/eost saving devices”

Languages and Dialects:

French’ - native

German - very good >
Georgiaa - fluent ‘spoked; reading and writing good
glioh - speaking and writing fair; reading fluent
Spanish "= speaking and writing poor; reading good
Ruséian-poor

Special Skills: : \

Bxperieace in document forgery !
1942-Achen-Berlinj altered own docusients ‘
7 1942-Berlin-Paris, filled in Gervan travel blank forms. Altered old
: German authorization stamp for travel forms. Made
otaer authentications stamps Yor other people interested
in travel across German held territory :
lin, fabricated etamps and cachets for travel documents.
Used photo techniques for changing and/or aging pictures
in documents. Also reassembled old false passports to
ts : form new ones, as well as counterfeited German finan-
7 lal vouchers.

194324 -1

eee B. Operational Informtion:
: 1. Circunstances of Recruitment -

Te agent vas first contacted in October 1958 a8 @ result of 8 lead
from AEPADDIZ, Ee vas recruited in April 1999 by the Frankfurt Station,
Zor a REDSCX operation. There had been some difficulty in the initial
recruitment, since it could not be resolved as to whether or not he
Gould work amicably with another agent in the proposed operation. =
ter psychological assessments and LCFLUITER e: tion, it vas decided
to recruit subject.. He was assigned the érypto[ASASPIC,) In April 1959
blect was breurht to the DCB, via a HBRAINBOW Subject was
rained in tbe ASSENTINAL project for.a black mission into the USSR as &

SECRET



SECRET

‘member of a REDSOX téam. This project was postponed for a year. ih

the Anterim he vas assigned to 75D, where he was employed ‘at a covert
site, involving. the catalocuing of specific informtion from Bast
German Documents, ‘ahd. ‘deve2oping’ and/or improving tools and methods for

~picking locks: On 17 June''1980, it vas decided that Project ABSENTINEL

ld not bé carriéd out. On receipt of this’ informtion SR/DOB en-
Fed to place ‘subject elsevtere, where his training vould be bené-
The African Divisicn expressed interest.and had agreed to uti-
im “as a remilt ‘of assessmeate.- During the period from the 2lst
er wit 11. dispaten, Subject will be carried on OOA funds.

Security Flaps =

‘During the latter part of Wi IT subject was arrested by the Cer-
Bin. police for forgery: Re vas not widuly held by the crininal ‘invest4=
“gation branch’ : ed onto the Gestapo. Subject vas
brougiit to-Berlin ‘where he: vas interrogated for several months at

“Gestapo Headquarters. “tater-he vas-tried and sentenced to death. For

some unknown ‘res'son he-was moved from jail to jail, conéerftration camp to
concentration camp. While in prison be resorted to a "ruse de guerre”
and told the Germans his father had invented a motor that could.run ~
‘without gasoline. He offeréd to draw the designs of the notor and was
able to stall long enough to be liberated by components of the advan-

eing U.S. Army.

B. In 1946-47 subject and an accomplice committed two robberies of
Jewelry stores.

C, In 1949. subject robbed a bank of 1,000,000 Fr. fr. His accomplice
was apprehended ana ‘shortly thereafter confessed, implicating subject.
Subject was apprehended vhile attempting to cross the Franco-Spanish
border. He was sentenced to ten years in prison of which he served
only five, receiving parole for good behavior. Upon release in 1955, he
was exiled on parole td Gap, France where he worked as an architect.

D. -To our knowledge thereis no indication that subject is known to
be associated with KUBARK.

3+ Agents Imowledge of sensitive matters ~ has‘met the following KUBARKERS:
“Anthony H, FRIGANZA (P) ae

Patrick B, NEWENS (P) .

Peter K. WINSHIP (P)

Dexter E. ROSTEDT (P)

Fred KIRKPATRICK (T)

George F. MUNS (T)

Michael RAE (7)

Charles R. ROISTADE (P) Mr. Dan

Paul E, LEIGHTON (P) - Dr. Johas

SECRET



SECRET
5+

Subject does not know that he 1s working for KUBARK. He knovs that
he 48 connected with some intelligence ofgaaization, e.g., ODIERX.* Be
does not mow daything about KUBARK organization nor its addus oper-

- andi. oe
“4B. ‘Security of meeting sites, comminications, ete:

These will-haye to be worked out in the field by subject's case of-"

cer.” :In genéral it. 48° proposed to.have him be “eurfaced in Germay. .

ran and from there, miking hie ovn vay to Leopoldville. |

I:repair or photo shop, This would pro-
‘CO.or-anyoné.to visit him under the guise.

nger meetings vould’ be held clandestinely as

3 ‘All. .comminication channels will have to be vorked

out in the fl1eld. “Hovever-tintil contact: established, a secure emer-

gency ‘channel with Reddquarters is being established. ‘This channel is

~ to be used only in’ the’ event sibject finds ‘himself stranded or for -

dire emergency. :
5. Security:

The agent 1s very: security conscious and will follow auy direction
in the interest of secuirty

6. Control:

On thig point here are several aspects for consideration. He is
under contract to us and @lthough‘he is not too interested in money, he
does enjoy its benefits and realizes that it will continue so long as
he does.a good Job. The more. important built 1a control is the fact
that he will be under. false documents, and being stateless, he is com-
pletely dependent on KUBARK to: perpetuate his quasi legal existence and
to eventually legalize his status. Added to this is the control which
stems from the prospect of resettlesent in ancther country. This vould
give hin status as a citizen. Realizing these points, subject is nore
than wilting to play ball with us,

7. Prior contacts with ‘any security service: e

As stated in 3B (2) above, the only brush subject has -hed in the
pasti.was with Gestapo and French police. - These were prior to his re-
cruitment by KUBARK and vere not as a result of I.S, activity.

8. Training of agent:

fe -had received training in covert black border operations. In ade
dition, he is being trained in srall arns and demolition,

9+ Cover effectiveness and the operation of the cover facility:

Subject will open & small photo or repair shop, vhich vill give hin

SECRET


SECRET :

"1 Lal degree of latitude tn moveneiit anda cover for covert contact.
EE “Subséct has ‘undergone plastic surgery in order to charge his appearance,
“also. toupe was made to furtlier assist’in the chansing of his outward
appearance, This actici was designed to preclude any possibility of.
recognition by forker French asociates, particularly since he ‘is to
” pasé a3 on-Austriad. ‘the cover facility, as statéd, will offer access
oi to. all classes’ of people, it will provide a natural deans for contact,
7 . and will Perit subject to mike trips under the guiee of business tra-
ae svely

- WiROGUB/2 wild. be req wired to set hingelr cup in business. ‘The 2 }
ified technicians will'help facilitate hie opening an
stablishment » WEROGUB/1. will need capital to set himself up, ‘buy
-Reeded. supplies. and have: torking funds. For'the purpose of providing
unds' to establish-and-open this cover business, we. will ad~
Fationhl loan, to be secured with a nore : \
note. An‘additional $1000.00 will be held
x Should. Be he-need.more money. Ostensibly it will represent
: wing’, and will be deposited ina Sviss bank. Provision will
- be mae to pay this money back froa his profits, After the loan is
. : ” paid off, WIROGUE is to keep the profits he may make. i}

He wil tnttiarly transfer $1000.00 to a bank in Leopoldville. We i
are certain that he will not abscond with the funds, since his docu- : |
mentation will be false and his pay and allowances total $8500 per
@rnun, he would therefore stand to lose a great deal more than he would
gain.

- Being @ contract agent, there is ample control if he shows signa of ;
a spending too much time in the pursuit of profits from his cover business.

Ais salary and allovences will be paid in part to a personal account
in Switzerland (separate fron his business account). This money will
ostensibly also represent his savings. The reminéer vill be paid
directly at the station.

C. Security Estimate:

WIROGUE had been recruited in France and exfiltrated black from West
et ieee i Germany to SR/DOB. He has had no known IS, connections in the past. He

: willbe surfaced in West Germny and will proceed to Leopoldville. He
Will be documented a8 an Austrian .

4. Background

The need for various technicians to stabilize the chaotic conditions in
Leopoldville coupled with an urgent need for controlled assets in-that city gave
rise to thie’ project. WIROGUB's particular talents, experience, ability and
training open up a wide varietyof possibilities.

SECRET



ey
SECRET
1
5+ Evaluation

There will be a néea for WIPOGUE to.establish and live his cover. This ie
anticipated to take several morithea; Hence he"will become operational in carly
1961. Hovever, it is’ reasonable to expect that the station will undoudtedly
place him'in covert role mich’ dooner. Nonétheless, we do not anticipate any FI

take prior to nid 1961.
6. Coordination

/ Coordination at Beadguartere is being effected with FI Staff, Finance Divi=
sion and SSA/DDS. : : .

7... Referetic

"a. pin 08782: (our 86554). -Bimar
B. DIR 08783 (our 66555) “RYBAT -
C. DIR 08443 (our 85967,

His covert training vill be completed’ by 15 November 1960. He will be
briefed on his cover story, documents, contact instructions, etc., 15-18 Novem-
ber 1960. On/about 18-20 November he will be flown black to West. Germany.
Tnere he will spend 5 to.7 days to familiarize hinself with Germany, receive

a final briefing and obtain a visa, then depart for Leopolaville arriving o/a
1 Decenber in Leopoldville. Once there he will require 1-2 months to look over
the business possibilities end establish himself.

9. . Approval Period and Cost
‘A. Approval is requested for one years: starting .l' November 1960.

Be Following is breakdown of the costs:

1. Salary at $500.00 per month $8000.00
2. Per diem during travel 250.00
3. ‘Travel to Leopoldville : 1000.00
4. Operational loan 5000.00
5. Operational expenses 2000.00
6. Allovances (flat sum) 3000.00

‘Total + 5 F1%250.00

10. Emergency Situation
In all present and anticipated conditions with the exception of a hot war, the
agent will have clandestine means of commmication with his CO in the ODACID in-
stallation and with Headquarters. For contingencies an emergency SW system has
been given to agent. for direct commmication with Headquarters.

SECRET



SECRET

FISCAL ANNEX
Project WinucU- taint

Purpose: . The objective of this project 1¢ to provide a long tera, deep cover
aasét, ‘a contract agent, WIROGUE/1, in the Républic of Congo and adjacent areas in
order to: build.a:covert ‘net “ii ‘support of’ operational activities and to: provide
“an aaset for utility support for KUBARK persomeél under official cover. For cover
Purposes; WIROGUB/1 will establish bis ovn ‘business, a smill photo or repair shop,
whieh vill give him a degree of latitiide:in movenent, and a ‘cover, for’ covert contact.

iT assist WEROGUR/1: ia etablioning: his. business KUBARK will loan

p to. peaks on Big personal a
i amount’ of 94300 ‘An wdditional $1,000’ l0en, will

eurreacy or the’ equivalent in foreigh curren-
“loans. Thé loaned funds vill be passed to
WIROGUE/1.in @ manner agreeable to Chief, Africs Division and Chief, Finance Divi-
sion. All .fundé loaned to WIROGUE/1 Will bé secured by U.S. dollar, non-interest
Dearing’notes,payable to bearer on demand: Such notes will be prepared by or ap-
proved by the Office: of Gemeral Coumsel, It is anticipated that an initial $4000
WALL be deposited in a Sviss bank, .ostenatbly representing his ova savings, by
KUBARK, Monetary Branch.

Accounting and Write-off: WIROGUE/1 will be required to sign receipts for
all funds loaned. to him, Finance Divigion is authorized to accept these receipts
as a charge to expense and to set up the loans payable in 8 memorandum account
without a due date. The notes signed by WIROGUE/1 shall be transmitted to Finance
Division for safekeeping. Repayment of the loan sball be made from business pro-
fite. WIROGUE/1 will be required to submit quarterly income and expense statements
on hié cover business and also copies of all tax returns filed in connection with

* his Cover business. A copy of all income and expense statements and tax returns

will be forvarded to Finance Division.’ -It ‘shall be the responsibility of the Chief,
Africa. Division to determine vhén profits’ warrant payments on the leans and to ef-
fect such repayments.

For purposes of control and collection, WIROGUE/1 will be required
to sign blank checks on his Sviss and African business bank accounts.

Ponmns a ee

c.

Uefeo

Ghie?, Finance Divieioa

THCY 1360 :
SAY i

SECRET i


ao Sygeteee iets
oe CLASSIFIED MESSAGE .
. . ROUTING:
units ap/u/2" *. 637. : S-BC-R-B- 1
3066. . = fat =
Ue 67 2{ = ____

FROM: DIRECTOR

“cont: C/AF 3 ge E

wos cop, C/ct, C/Fi 2, C/Tso 2, Cee

nl PRIORITY.

| | crncoae
ASB

to we NFO” yaa OP.” ive OR 11912 -
as : Lag

Hap: DEn 08782 (OUE 86594)".
OTSPALS (te) BRA FRAN 21 BO. VILL REQUIRE SAFE. HOUSE i
SIcrer VIROGUE PRIOR 70 LATTERS BISPATCH. PIS AscIST.

Le CHARLES RL

POR FIVE DAYS TO QUARTER AED

2. 1200 DOLLAR ADVAHCH AUTHORIZED ROTSPADE. a/A mS.
BaD OF MESSAGE -

DESK COMEAT: Ref RYBAT.

‘og C/AF
AUTHENTICATING OFFICES

ar;
¢/35/08S :
feLeasinG oFFICces a omc RD 4043

REPRODUCTIOMM BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED. Copy No
: fied 30477


‘OF
un

, ore

DAM

woe

FROM: DIRECTOR

Conk.

agju/2

633

fe

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE _*

zy

8-E-C-R-E-T

ROUTING

15 Hovember: 1960

C/AF 3

= 1182,

INFOn rat wall, 6/61 2; cfs 2, fee 3, S/e 2

638

BAEmOnAme

“aNro par op:
yo1ra3i09

"END OF MESSAGE

Signal Center: Pls. ref attached cable

RELEASING OFFICER

REPRODUCTIO!

Tt

by OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

77'b0
RECO Chee Seer,

BROVSCH THEEDY
¢/aP
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER
Copy He.
dey 4 39°77


2. Any. aétion to letter tog, ‘Gad any letters ‘Feceived; showla
de. refered Sn AP /u/2,YB234. : fe

Acting Caicf, Africa Division

bare AVIHIT



eee he

FROM og LEOPOLOVILLE

ActONa . C/ar 3 .
‘es phn : :
‘ ; ze + ROUTINE

an 4+
pee sn 43

: 1.” WIROGUE™ ONE APPEARS BE JUST WHAT DOCTOR ORDERED. UNLESS.

[ HE CAN GET VISA -RAPIDLY EUROPE, SUGGEST HE COME CONGO WITHOUT VISA.

CAN GET FORTY-E1GHT HOUR VISA LEOP OW ARRIVAL PENDING RECEIPT = Ee

“BELIEVE LETTER OF ‘CREDIT FROM EUROPEAN BANK IN

LONGER VISA.
. AMOUNT. ONE HUNDRED FIFTY THOUSAND BCF WOULD PROVIDE PROOF HE WOULD

NOT BECOME CHARGE OF STATE. ALSO SHOULP HAVE ROUND TRIP TICKET.

2 CONTACT INSTRUCTIONS AS FOLLOWS: ME TO CALL GUTHMAN AT i
E (3515) OR TPELIDE ASAP AFTER ARRIVAL INTRODUCING SELF AS
TING FOR DRINK. ACTUAL TINE
NEETING

Hox

a

USTAVE. GUTHNAN WILL SUGGE

MEETING TO SE Tuo HOURS PRIOR TG TIME SET ON PHONE.

OF
PLACE WILL BE IN FRONT MAIN POST OFFICE. MIROGUE one “SHOULD HAVE
GUTHMAN WILL

ECOK IN LEFT HAND AND. UNLIGHTED CIGAR IN “OUTH.

ASK IN FRENCH IF TELEPHONE OFFICE OPEN Ny ADDING HE HOPES PLACE

WIROGUE ONE REPLY TO BE HE NOT CERTAIN RE PHONES

CALL TO’ CHICAGO.

AS HE THERE To CABLE VIEN 8
3. COVERS SUGGESTED REF APPEAR OKAY.

UNCING HIS ARRIVAL CONGO. fi

0 FOR DEEP COVER

*STATED THAT WIROGi AT ROS.
LEOP iN LATE Od. & ROU’ UTES 28 AUSTRIAN TO DEPART PBPRIME

BLACK FOR SURFACING IN FS itm ‘ et a Ay Darvr7

REPRODUCTION aY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE Is pronionréa! Copy Now

Ber nnd ba



CHAS

| BURLDING

TRERLACES FORM 38
wron maT BE UE.



COVERT AGREEMENT SUPOLED..

SECRET

INCOME AHD FEDERAL TAX DATA

Derren

Tohech ne vere)

SOURCES CF COUPENSAT.1OW PAYUENTS.

COMPENSATION PAYWEHTS BY COVER FACILITY i

Sunt Cher oninany | walt GosteT To"Tat ~ “GoHLaIN-AW DIFTEFENCTS. UNGER ie] PHRERT To #tErO CORT)
ff heceat dao Teta
i : Pay SeeseNTeD] yoy
Fay PERIODS USED AY COVER FACILITY i
a TIT ee Te [iterieonreny SL woaraur

TAXES. TOBE WITHHELD BY COVER FACILITY FROM COVPENSATION PAID

TNCOUE TAKES = AWOUST,

VTantLo PCR Pay PERIOD

COMPENSATION “SUBJECT TO A: FOREIGN: TAX

; COVER FACILITY WILL REPORT COMPENSATION AS FOLLOWS (Se

SIGU RO atPORT.

E fom =

THE AGENCY BILL REPORT COMPENSATION AS FOLLONS (See fem 36

teal.

pasa) ee[ senaiore :

weet of thie fi

MANE AMO ADDRESS. OF OaTENS

ce emPLoven

DECLARATION OF ESTINATED INCOKE TAK (Chec® ome)

[ess eren Fives

[L_ [oss wor orem ricco PX [vet arrurcasce

PART 11 DEPENDENCY DATA ‘
CuaiweD #ITH COVER

WO. OF OEPENDERTS.
FACILITY,

THCLUDING SELF, cLarwe> cw

TRCLUDIWG SELF
alent) atracets

[" MO, OF DEPENDENTS

Foau-3t3 on #4 (Or ea!
MARITAL STATUS (Complete os epprapiiate)

since

jooweD bavesces

wane

Tare OF MARRIAGE

DATE OF DEATH DATE oF DECHEE :

CiTizewsnih OF Spouse

TEsioENce oF Shouse (Counter)

CEPENDENTS ELIGIBLE TO RE CLAIVED FOR PURPOSES OF
IN NUNBER OF DEPENDENTS

FILING TAX RETURNS: WHO MAY OR MAY NOT SE INCLUDED

OECLARED ABOVE (Omit well and epouse) Udo

> RELATIoNSuIe (Wo na

YEAR OF B1ATH EATEZENSHIP cousrey iF ses ipence

it

me il

15, aewanes © Tad vines & fs a rr
Ri we bese
Te. ‘APPROVAL OF CENTRAL COVER DIVISION 17, Foew PREPAaTO oY LIne . KE veree
7 PART 1 CERTIFIED CORRECT
The employer's names and methods for [azz Sicwaiet oF orFicim
reporting compenéajion shown in Itese’8, |" J
and/or 9, gtove ané Approved. Vertp.
od \ Bare TiGnaiuee oF TaDiviDUAL (Poe
Une va

“SIGNED ORIG. AND COPY ~ TO FINANCE? COPY ~ TO CENTRAL COVER! COP)

bisrsqguTtow:

y= 70 Fie

SECRET

FORM 31 Ja-sevonere recvious eorrioes.



Cond os
© ‘lashs ® oe ~Yee eas Yo ao
© GAnor = 7 es etfs pale
ce Wi bt . “St
®> hut te .

metiy yer bw & 7
© Wad) “see aan ond wn tes :

Ror xe WS. oe. Rapreban | 7
Chis Mee “ee woth aE

Po
— ee

Sooo. %=

; ooo.
Us gat ee
4S 500

ee

sj
BZoou —

Taxco prrn) 2. ny, Vooo et
aisoeeerd

whit io cat Ven



toa ,
‘ : : 695 CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
apfa/e . 7 8-E-C-R-E-T :

366
21 October 1960

7 ROUTING

ss

OT 23 20492 60

yo + EBOPOLDVILIE ‘
:
: : REC'D CABLE SECT.
From DIREG \ g bala asanids
\. le
conh CAM ‘ 7
. A ¢ OPERATIONAL
mNFOs - COP, C/ca, c/cl, €/ce 3, S/e 2 . i AMEDIATE
: atte . A \ pee

fax oto Dubie igo s togernul

CTEDR 3799
eo (ste?

aoor nh ate Noy ENVEGTON US AS UETLITY AGENT SuCR AS, (1) ORGARIZIEG AND COH-
BS Bebermc sorverizance mw (2) TRTESCEPIION oF FOOCIES (3) BUCO UP RIGGS A/OR
(&) REZCUENG OTHER ASSTGIMERTS REQUIRING POSTIVE ACTION. HIS UNILIZATION HOT TO
ga REGACTED 10 LROP IVDERD MAY HR SUBJECT CALL OTHER AFRICAN STATIONS ALTHOUGH
EXPSCT HIM TO. BE RESIDENT LBOP. :

2. “HE 18 THVERTOR, PROTOGRAPAER, ARCHITECT, FORGRR AND FORMER BANK ROGDER
WHO HAS SERVED TERM IN PRISON. VERY INGENIOUS OBSERVANT, SHREWD CLID AND RE- .
LISHRS INTRIGUE AND DARING DO. (ue LATTER PLAYS DAPORTAW? PART I8 EIS CHARACTER.

He LEARES QUICKLY AND CARRIES OUT ANT ASSIGHMENT WITEOUD REGARD FOR DANCER. FOR
CERTATH TASKS THIS MAN UNUSUALLY QUALIFIED AND SHENG TO BE DISCS. ASSESSMENT
OVER TWO YEARS 18 THAT HE 13 RELIABLE ABD "HONEST". DELICATE TO BASDLE FOR MUST

RAVE TRUGT IN HANDLER AND HIS PROVSSGIOHAL CE COMPRIKNCE AND ILL, ROCTPROCATE
In KID. scape ages alee ae eg

‘Td THTTIAL STAGES. fe
3. BEINO DOCUMENTED AS AUSTRIAN TO DEPART FRICKE RACK FOR SUNPACTNG TH

COOgCINATING O

RELEASING OFFICER. 3 aurwenticatino OFFICES

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

iva

Copy No

Hs £34877 /


<8 .
af 7 “+ | | _CLASSIFIED MESSAGE»
'S-B-€. 2

ROUTING

34

: we : 4

: t

FROM: DIRECTOR : : ¢

a i 7 cE oO
7 . Et ‘CONF, i
2. ¢

“INFOe . cf

oR 08782

iy WEST: GERMANY. PROM THERE fo PROCKED oa ‘Gum. PLAS 70: OPEN PHOTO OR CERERAL .

REPAIR SHOP POR COVER ‘IRPOSES, : : i
“ by [HE 15 FORTE OHE.SPRAKS FLOR FRESH ‘AND, GAOIAH. PAIR ENCLOSE, . TRATHED
: TH SMALL, ARES DEO AND OTEER PHASES GP BA ACEIVITT. :
5. REQUEST YOUR VIB, AND CONBAC? ZEVINOCTTORS.
6. ALL TRAFFIC TO BE SYBAT,
EAD OF MESSAGE,

— —

coll bere orrietes

Ac/AP CAF/W
RELsASING oFficel B-B-C-R-RT AUTHENTICATING OFFICER ~

7 REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED. Copy No.



To

| RELEASING Officer
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED. Copy No.

ey
6

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

=a ROUTING
Go [4

LB eRG-R-BT

“ pan eae
iri pin 08 782(oun $6554):

[paiwonaees

“SIDER: | DAVID T2rPZiCHVELE
DOB: 12 JULY 1918
FOB: TIFLIS, GOEROIA, USSR

CIT: STATELESS

END OP MESSAGE

Signal Center: Pla. ref attached cable.

oct 28 20892 60
REC'D CABLE SECT.

AUTMENTICATING OFFICER

Bel bgsyrz7t


PRASKSURE. : dha
fou DIRECTOR, £ : i auiINE |
78D Y : :

Fl 2, E64, ar 4, s/c2

FEAT

anro . [BRIT
“0 “RguAeTC “wERoGus

1." CAM You PROVIDE. POLLO:
CERTIFICATES AND FILL I SOMPLARS?

STAMPS "POLIZEIPREASIDIUM ZERLEN" FOR PSRLEI ISSUED "s

“@. HEED'AT KURIO? 14 NOVEZER IATEST.

-Ead of Message-

C/Africa West by vhone y,

C/ES by pione w/iir, UK

LYK Ces

a IT
» ROOSEVELT

, codtosvstino ovinesas
CLT sirio ovvrcee

SSVERUL BLA AUSTRIAN BIRT OR BAPTISM

ff
VIEWA PREFERRED. SEVERAL If 1 FISCAL |
o 1

\USENTUALTSERIAUENIS"? |

ASSIC/TSD/AUTE
4 SECRET

AUTRENTICATING OFFICER

REPRODUCTH

yr OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy No.

ee



UNCLASSIFIED a e “UCONFADENTIAL

Bocewent sywest ano muwece

“SR/DOB/| : SR/DOB/60- Yo i
1062 3 : Wee Sen? Oave = fatties sadrevae on

5 26 Cet. 60 :
Location coiasen ts
“Chief, AF Div] eat :

Attn: {ET

eT

DOCWMEAT PROCESSING CATA

tnoeneo

Fite noveew

m8, 6 f CONFIDENTIAL UNCLASSIFIED ao


o

sR/DoB/60- 2679

Geer ee ad ee eg 26 October 1960
Chief, Africa Diviiston . - :

+ GEA personalittea:jinown by alias to FEDSOX agent,
“David Durward re are

‘The following personalities; listed in trie natis and alias, are ~. -
+. “inown by. AESENTINEL “EEDSOK ‘agent David'Durvard in ths alias Listed. a

0 S2) gibgéet te unaware ‘of the cid aff ation of these personalities.
The period -of time over which, Subject. was connected with these individuals

was "from May 1959 through October 1960,

3. True Name Division/State Alias
SR Pat Cook :
SR Fred Koner sncteieny
SR Clint une
SR Little B112 eee
SR Marty Adans
SR Bue :
SR Ray ‘
SR Col. Ed
SR Tom.
. SR Mike or Max
se Mister George
SR Joa
‘ SR Hal
. SR Mack
ge SR Joe Bowman :

SR (contweet) Big Roy - |
- SR’ (contract) Geof 7 '
SR (contract) ~ Janie
SR (contract) | Henry

SR (contract) Kathleen
SR (contrect) Logan

SR .(contract) Allie i

0. Security Hank
DED Chick
DPD Heinte
om Thor
0S/TRD Paul
Med. Staff Joe
0. Conmo Dale
Al
Morgan
Dr. John

Mr. Glenn JO1-L32477



chs For’ any fu
on Extension. 6332.’ -

=2-

on please contact



IMMUNIZATION SCHEDULE

Ne

til vou." “iT 13 YOUR RESPONST
GENE. THE t83ECT OMS Om THE: OATES DUE, *

THiS Core a
To aECF iy

(Asn €) 7

IMMUN IZAT1 SCHEDULE
Dave

4 '0%. AT 1S ¥ouR. RESPORSIO

THE INJECTIONS ON THE OATES DUE,

CTH Dose] “OATE OVE] DATE GIVEN - =
‘SMALLPOX eh Alege : DOSET SATE oUE. DATES GIVEN. +
REACT Ion an -

vies

Bate i5] 5

po
and ”
PLAGUE Ast
"fend
7 ist
DIPHTHERIA. [2nd a
cae rd
tn
sat Bele fey 746
omier ;
VACCINES *

YELLOW FEVER
LOT MUMBER

SCHICK
BIG use oe

FoR nO.
Tuan 36
t

nn a
: 2nd pat fee
Ci”, detteeg med RSMssssbeseicererend aassesse—-teeeeeenee
na ~ =
tat a assesshetssasuasans
DIPHTHERIA 2nd =
‘SALK
omen
vaccines

YELLOW FEVER
LOT NUMBER

SoH CK

"

1

ORY NO" GIG use vervrsus connie,

an 36



DOR ANOUH FOR: -.'Chic:

“Operational “Approval is héreby granted 1a: the” case. of< ABASPIC:

for the ‘purpose specif:

This Approval is based upon evaluation of information available to this
Office, and is granted. uider authority contained in CS].and CSI-F 10-5.

a
Bia

Susann tetas

i CI/QPIRATIONAL APPROVAL AND. SUPPORT DIVISION

Date:_._8 Nov 1960".

Distribution: i
Orig: to Addressee ‘ :
1 to Piles Hl
ee dea
SECRET : _
rene AI AIST Iw

13p 12G ete reevsoce cortvone.



MEMORANDUM J

ATTENTION: °

LA, DIR 45223 (QUT. 98152)”
8B. HIN 32746).
ce (IN,3009)

i 1, Subject to your concurrence, responaibliity for the accommo
dation matting sddreos for SR/DOB agent ALASPIC (To De
i “" “which was arranged for by your office, wiii be transfarred to the Africa
a Division Which is now atidizing thie agent.

t
: 2, The agent accommodation mai:ing address in Brazi! is as

“| foitows:

i aos Eduardo Catio
Hisiiis ie Caha Postal 11744 (iapa)
Sao Paulo, Brasil

3._Tho Africa Divislon.cave officer responsible for this.agent is
2119 I Buliding, extension 6284.

: : 4. This office extendas its appreciation for thé expeditions manner
i : {a'which youhave arranged for and maintained this accommodation addreas.

asl 5. For any farther information regarding this please contact
axtengion 6284 or exteasion 8331,”

dor tre 7 7



_ AP/W/ LDR 0ay 317 Oot 1960

Distributica:
*: Orig. & 1 = Address. ;
1 = AP/aE
De aP/a/.

A6’-293¥77
SECRET


(SIMNOARD, FORM BO. Ge cae “ SECEET

ao alt .
Office Memorandum * UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

oo | o*8: 19 Oct 6

FIOM": Operations Diviaion, Medical State

subsRer: spre (¢) catatt &

: ae : SchJect has been evaluated by tha Hedteel ‘State and found phystcally 4
a ree qealified for the proposed assignment. :

i Adninistrative Officer . ..- a a a
ete Bistetieioat eereeereeee reeeieare
ied Original - Addresses

Scsaeeeeeieetee erie 2 ame (ease)
in 1. AS

bl 1393977

SENDER WILL CHECK Classi TION TOP AND BOTTOM
T_xchassivnin | CONFIDENTIAL SECHET

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP

TITIAN Dare
aS
pee

L
a

NAME ANG ADDRESS

‘Action

Ee BERT PREPARE REPLY
‘APPROVAL RECOMMENDATION
COMMENT RETURN
‘CONCURRENCE [OY Tinronwatiow SIGNATURE

Remarks:

aimsctsrowewe soroT
AS, 1999-9 ennees

Wana

FOLO HERE TO RETURN TO SENDER
FROM: NAME. ADORESS AND Prone NO,

CONFIDENTIAL,

ites 237 Kusnrenee +S comer meme ornce is —o-sn8t


SET

SR/B/6I- ROSS sees
29 September 1960 eee

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chlet, Ailea Affaire Staff, OS

v suasecr: : Transfer and-Cuartering arrangements for ALASPIC™

1. Thie ts.to confirm a atecusaion betweea|
SR/DUB and your office regarding transfor and quartering arrangement
for AEASPIC, David Durvard (a), aud the interest expressed by
of Africa Division re acquiring AEASPIC as a long
term asset for that division.

2. In compliance with a request made of this office by Africa :
Divieioa, tt ia underatood your office has agreed to tho temporary
quartering of AZASPIC ina furnished safe apartment located:at
Apartment 307, 5741 Colorado Avenue, N.W., Washington, 2.C.
This office, with your concurrence, has agreed to lend the use of :
thie apartment’ for a period of about two weoks, effective 24 September '
1960. At present AEASPIC ta visited once a week and/or as the need
aris. AEASPIC has his own salary for food and public transportation,

The same cover arrangements exists under this arrangemont as

existed when Subject iived at 925 25th Street, N. Ws, inhis own Apartment.
The cover arrangement is that David Durvard (a) is a technicai associate
of Fred K, Komar (a) (i.e. an SK/QUB cuae officer) seif-empioyed,
manufacturera commissioned representative,

Fie EVIE

NR an rates ATE co nehitnog Se dep Ma eesti tte alth ot ach dis cacipneoe



SECRET.

28’ September 1960

: MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD :
SUBJECT: 'Physicai'exam/Imimuntzation for David Durvara fa) porte ied :

*_At.1000 hours 28 September. David Durvard:(a) in the company. :

pen of an SR/DOS case officer’attended a-full physical. atthe offices ° 01)
i yo of a cleared, wittiag-doctor; 222F North i !
chanaa Street, Arlington, 'y TOK indicated to this ~. - Sr:

case officer his preliminary opinion that Subject was 44 perfect health.
Medical records to thiv effect:will be forthcomlag..-Mr. Durvard (a).
: algo recoived the first in a series of immunization shots. preparatory
; to @ projected assignment in the West African theater. Mr. Durvard,
with hig case officer will return to office on 4 October ©
ot 10:00'a.m. for'a second series of immunization shots. Medien’
Fecorda other than those reflected in Mr. Durvard's (a) 20] file will
be kept in the Medical File Room (Central Buliding under hie crypto.
A copy Will also be kept in AO/OD/MS under pseudo.

Ad) 239477



a

title ‘shown are’ net
ile no. below
to RID/AN

VFeSSUR FLL NS.

FO" ALL,

NT ON BACK I APPROPRIATE

ROORESSEES

eouments

MT, QO ERE
RESP, OF AF TY

{

Fee TRE

RID/FI fj |

race |}

REGUEST i |
© be : 23479

} HBPA 04890

CJ . |
: aot i
wy BS NCa cns SECRET a



400000 CONTINUATION OF

i OISPATCH BBPA=hO90
TO: Chief, oR: “  RRADGUARTERS FILE KO:
201-233477”
DFG: chte?, wap: : ;
Cater of Station, FIRLD PILE FO: 10+6-5.8
FROM: : Chiket of Basa, ine 12 Oétober. 1960

SUBIECT:” ‘operaticnat/RemnidoD/ARAGRE 50 INDEXING RegUTRED
‘Accommodation Address - Et :

ACTION REQUIRED: “Aa requested tm paras 2 -
REFERENCE: HBPy-2001

secordance ‘with “anstructions. ointdined ta reference, the Base has been.
‘the: vsecommndaticn addre: 08 ce r -.

time)
pea ones sat fo ign (12 ts]
et all posaibte to" send. these letters

~ names, “and ‘the Base ‘consider ‘it a-definite security harard if be is forced to
Adantity’hingelt tn the manner required by the registration of these letters.

ae Hosdquarters attention is called to thé fact that the letter vhich the Basa
forvarded on 7 October 1960 vas postmarked in Rurepe on 12 August 1960. Even in
the light of the notoriously slow postal system, the Base cannot
such a long deley in“transit for « ich a delay has been typical of
almost every letter thé Base hag received tn the past eix manthec The Base has
no reason to disbelieve ALLOMSTER-2 in hie repeated assartions that be services
emda ceetoned

Pabor $e
“Tneien W. PABSIK

EBPA-b890
He /-R 534
—— — 7
ee -
=, eee ate are —=
iy CS be of z


"pin zy, Beprary,

‘oved with the fire ds:

(mmmmmran F February1959:*

9

cs rebrusry 1959 ~
EGS 25336,-2h February 1959

DIR 14843, Hare: 1959
(———} Hareh 1959
DIR 16763, Hareh 1959
} itareh 1959
C7} ssreh 1959
Co] Farch 1959
DYR 173422, March 1959
DIA 475545, 1959

AO -

Ss qu

235A 72

ed



: @iseuasicris « ‘Alden “Affaire
regularisa

= Start, end have taken ateps to
ABAGPIC Clearance tatus for his tntendod

°

As the cxact date of. transfer to not jot te
mequected thst lmaintata contact with fan

§R'o cooperation an ouch matters ap het; quarte:
amd a nev physical oxenination are epprocioted, ee ring

Gilef, Africa Division

ZA, 2B3IT77

Leh - car nee De hee aaN foe ue ape


1.) Bubject ta currently “in the proséan of boing transferred
froin the: jurisdiction of 68 to’AF, in all probebility for a field
unaucnid wm the Cango. 7 fs i eeeeece

2. ‘Aecoriiigly, it 18 requested that your records ‘be altared

i
i
4

to reflect this change and also, that the. necess:
taken to emend his QA (C-73532) to permit use by this Division.

3. tion regarding subject, please
contact. Africa Yost, on extension 3629, who
will teuporarily bs handling this case.

Bronson Tweody
Chief, Africa Division

i
!
i
t

i
{
i
i

def RSFETIZ



i
t
i

1. Occupational Specialty:

2: Military Service: :

3. Empioyment History:

Dec. 1939, Paria, volunteered for Freiich

3.

Mechanical Electrical Engineoring
Cine or Portrait Photography

Reesarch and fanovater of commercial
labor/money saving devic :

Eloétro mechanical or photographical in
nature, i:

See paragraphs 4, 8, 9; 11, 12,13, 14
of Emiployment History for examples,

Foreign Legion,

Jaa. 1940, Tuntela "North Africa, in let Cav,
Reg., lst Squadron, 4th Platoon.

Feb. 1940 = cent to N.C.O. raining course in
Ession. Pulled out to be reassigned to alle
Georgian unit,

i
i
i
t
i

Mar.- Aug. 1940, Barcares. Aesigned in
Georgian unit -

Aug. 1940- Paris, Oischarged after the end
of Franco/German hostilities as Privat
First Class,

1. 1942 --Paris . Volunteered for work in
Germany. '

2. Poelitz, Germany, Worked for HIDRYER
WERKE on contract for one year ae
installation electrician,

3. 1942 - Berlin. Photographer of metals for
a factory which produced electrodes for
Weiding instruments :

pe? = Parie Seif-empioyed at photo shop.
Portrait photography,

4. 1942 Berlin Assembly line worker in
Berlin factory producing stee! ammunition
belts. Received. commendation from factory



director for labor’ saving device re
manufact. of device for automat. adjustment
of cartridge cases

5+ 1942 Berlin’ Drivera‘thecNanics course for <~

» NSKK (Nazi Party ‘Motorized

Mugelheim “'Corpa). Draca trucks during’

©
Germans,
. 6571943 “Bariia: Etnployea with SCHUPOLIZEL
: Fadsiator French-Germaa language.

7. 1946-47 Paris

ction of Atlantic wal. by

Employed by Architects

| Carre Associated -as olectrical inota:lation

plainer and constructor. of prototype modal

diullder.
scale

8. 1951-52 Ia Devised and sold on French
Prison, market a pocket automatic
Paris’ transit indicator. Received cash

aettiement for this whlic in prison,

9. 1953 In prison
fa Rion

10. Dec, 1955~Gap
Apr. 1956

il. 1956-57 Gap

_ 12, °1958 Ambert

13, 1959-60 U.S.
Sept-May

14. 1960, Juiy U.s,

Devised and gave to prison
administrator invention for
maldng cardboard boxes.
Device was built and used by
Prison administrator,

Employed by M.D. as X-ray
machine maintenance techaie
cian and operator.

Javented, patented and soid
a calendar dovice to the
French commercial market,

Invented and patented a com-
mercial advertising device,
photo-mechanical in nature:
Models built and gold to French
advertising concerns,

Devised and passed drawings
for 2 plecea of equipment to be
used for Project AESENTINEL.

At prosent Subject is devising
a low cost teiephone answering
device,



4. xpesioace in Forged Documenta:

of pen to change effective dates.

1942 Berlin - Paris: Filied in German.travel blank forms
ee " Altered old German authorization stamp
: . for travel forms. Then made other
2 ‘ serene falsified stamps for other people
: “inte reeted.ia travel acro:
territory.

Constructed and used various faleified .

‘travel documents for varicus People to
teavel throughout Germany, Used
Certain photo techniques for changing

sarne time Subject also reassembled

1 vouchers,

Physical Description

Subject to described as 42 year old male Caucasian, 5'6" tall, of slight
bulld (136 Ibs. average weight), long face,. long nose, dark brown hair,
balding in front, swarthy complexion. Subject ts extremely agil and in
perfect health, He ig an ex-French foreign legionnaire and aurvivar of

German concentration camps.

Evaluation
Subject's cass officer agrees with Agency Assessment that he possesaes
the traits of a tom clandestine operator and would be an apt candidate
for any black mission which requires:

1. able-bodiedness
i
2, ability to'aasimilate easily (al owing for his phyeical features)

May 1942. Achen,:- Berlin: -Falaified hid own travel documents by use

German-held
‘avel documents stamps copied from old

and/or ageing pictures.in documents. At

‘falsified old passports to form new ones
as well as counterfeited German financial



3. innate sense of locational direction iq

4." superior intelligence and reasoning power

bility to.comprehend and apply inetruction rapidly

6s. willlagness to-undertake an extremely hazardous infesion

.Te basic techaical and mechanical applied or theoratical abilities

8. “ability ‘to improvise and “know how" disturbingly Americéa ia

character. cre . :
Motivatioa

Subject'a motivation ie’based on‘ personal loyalties rather than monetary

gain. Subject has litte regard for the vaiue of his money, and must

be strongly urged to set aside a part of his oarnings. Subject has a

strong distaste for the Communiat regime and hag observed the

effecta of it at first hand. Subject indeed goes a step farther, =)

subscribing to the "Untermenach” theory re tho Russian seople.

Languago Capabilities

Subjact speaks, reads, write

French - native

Georgian - fivent

:German  - good to Muent i a
English - reads fluently, writes, fair, speaks fair
Spanish + reads fair, speaks poor, understands fair

Subject has exhibited good subordination to his case officer, intelligent.
security precautions re hie persona! habite, and the ability to quletiy

fit lato an American urban existence, For-any further information please

call j SR/DOB, X-4705,



1) Septerber 1940"

NDUY- FGa THE

CCD,

SUAISCT: " Contact Report

1. Gn 8 Septerber 1945 the unlersti ned) c
officers’ wet vith Da
(201233077) in a ©h]00R safe house. The purge:
-assess-David for possible use. by J}
interviewed as Uhe“sure procedure
(Of the Affieda Division,

kas: boing
J aa used previously by 3 representative’

‘ 2, The subject tas ied ah‘ereitine and diverie Life. “The =! Division
troyeht ‘his vo the United States (black) to triin for a vissi-n «hich his
subzey, teon ccnéelled, At the present tine the “k Divisiin is xing
arrangerents fcr the resettlesent of the subject in Latin arertes, probably
‘in Fexico. ‘However, due tc the treining this azency hes xiven the subsect
SE feais he should he utilized oy the DD/P if possible.

7 tc his.stery the
David is a srocth

») ‘De Observing David for sore tao
uniersi.ned feels there ray ba sore use of hi
talker whi hus obvicusly teld his story satis? of

% listeners. He elaborates oa the exciting and biasree parts ef his life
snd-tends to ,loss over those secticns he feels that zre conrcn to everyones

4. The subscet hax teen in the United States for sore tire. This tise
hee been spent in tr int oF & specific rigsion ubici never ‘core te pass.
Recentiy ne has teen ed in "make sork” pre, 2 tc pass the lise. This
could weil explain his cuvarent Amputienee and desire to do.scmething. In
his ovn .oris he wishes to prove that he is c.pable of accorplishing a task
assigned to hin, He ssvs for a chenee to surveil serecna, to ture clandestine
pietures, even to ussassin:ie sorecne, He very merly ed to be given a
gilch dering this xcctings : i

5+ The subject is a stuteless person. ile is ta the United Stetes black
ane coulé te com. ecessary, He desires citizer
ard a nce to settic He orefers U.S. citizonstip hut 4s
not avament en this. howsver the basic yotivats rs to bs love of
erciterent. The subject cives a very ; ocd -rance of the clussical
adventurer. He reletes itis pist exploits in wartine Furcze ug sotivated by
the thrill of duping the 'ezistin: uiherity. | :

Qa
DOl- 238477



: %
we i
. 6. Tk is the
a oi: ton a, eatein C
: suJU/EY Rave at ong tise bee cue efFicers of this individusl for
a al/ufeY nos the 2G] folder at the present tines i



. Office of CIA met with

“49 August 1960

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD,

‘SUBJECT: ° Mexican Resettlement Arrangements for AESENTINEL
agent, AEASPIG -

1,"-At 1400 hours, 19 August, SR/DOB éase officer,

from Defection Coordinators
jof TSD/IB
re-documentations arrangements and travel routing for possible”
resettlement of AESENTINEL agent AEASPIC. The followin
arrangements were proposed by
for SR/DOB's consideration. TSD/IB suggested that Subject be
sent by black flight from here to West Germany, and there
surfaced with an altered Greck passport which TSD/IB now has
available. A suitable cover story would of course be incorporated
re the possession of a Greek passport-by Subject, while Subject
has no Greek language capability. Since this passport is a valid
one, (and was, in fact, purchased by TSD/IB) and is therefore
backstopped in name, Subject could apply at the Mexican Embassy
in West Germany for a Mexican tourist visa by presenting this
passport. Once in Mexico, Subject could request emigration
action upon declaration of intent'to become a Mexican citizen and
upon submitting proof of sponsorship by an employer in Mexico

| City.

2. Upon your concurrence, [______]will arrange for

to meet with[(____ J, the CIA contact used

for introducing agency designees into Mexican private industry.
has already talked with on two occasions

and has passed him Subject's file. From their talks,

has assured me that this arrangement is entirely feasible, Gillete

Company of Mexico City being cited as one possibility.

3.. AEASPIC would then openly proceed to purchase plane
tickets in West Germany for Mexico City and upon arrival there,
would be waiting for him; The time table for this entire operation
was estimated at about five weeks. Of course we did not discuss
Subject's monetary maintenance for the interim period of travel,
hor until Subject could begin earning his own living.

FOP BEGLTD


=2-
4. expressed his concern and the concern
of of Alien Affairs Staff about the knowledgibility

of Subject re pass. Agency tie-in and. Agency assets. It'will of
coursé be our job to assure Security that Subject is not knowledgable
and Will entail‘a minimum of risk,to-trahsport and to resettle in
“Mexico.” In‘view of this concern; all arrangements offered for
DOB's consideration by TSD/IB were tailored to afford atep by
:Step denial or participation by.the U. S. Government. In effect,
‘all items procured by Subject for resettiement could just-as
. easily be- obtained Gn'the European black market aé well as from
this‘Government. Subject will in effect be briefed and taken by
German‘Station asset to. obtain his documents ostensibly on the
black market. Monies due Subject would be. withheld pending
destination arrival. The letter head and Supporting sponsorship
documents to be used by hit for ultimate employment in Mexico
would be prepared in such a manner. as to be either legitimate or
forged. In addition it was suggested that Subject be closely
handled and advised by someone known to him to ensure the
security aspect both'to Subject and to this agency.

5. The meeting was closed by TSD/IB's request to be
informed whether these arrangements in theory meet with the
approval of SR/DOB, and Office of Security.
was assured that Documentation aspects by TSD/IB could be
accomplished within one week upon authorization by SR/DOB.
With your permission will proceed to affirm
Mexican employment arrangements for AEASPIC,

ce
, oe FRED KIRKPATRICK ;-

of, a

an “ ¥ ae
aa ad

’ Ta

: Az
a ara
wi se



Le On 2k July 19/0, sr/pen cas. Cflicer
of your office re cnlist

possikle resettlonent of OR/D0B Redsox ecnt:

iion of South cr Central friericas At the requést and a

this office’ has pronsred | the following Lecraphic

(1) in the re,

{nforsations See Attaclix

‘Bhoprast nfeal Infor-et von 4 Recessary for’ “Posstl’
Rosettlansiit: of S2/D03 nedéox Anect avid ve

Subject 4s livine in the aereval vashtr

WIE Caco Officer ard

supervision of an
Office dees acc

further debriefing y

Subject remains en a quasi lepally back Stony

. Alien Affairs Stale until 20 Ceteber 17/0.

. a:y further inforration ploase contact
By on extension h7ch or 33

ract ayent David 72)

ped arrangerent of

Acting Chief, on/pe2



24-June 1960

SUBJECT: Biogravhic Information/fase Officer Evaluation. of
David T2ZITZICHVILI, alias David DUR’

Gospee.”  Biograchic Information
Et gee or ’
David 1ZITZICHVILI was born 20. Lecembar 1919 in Tbilias, Georgia, where
he lived with Ms parents until 1921. Subject at that time moved to France

‘with -hiy parents. Subjeet-grew up in france end thercfore speaks native

” Preseh (Parisian). Subject doss not have French e<tisenship, however, and -

must be classed as stateless. Subject earned the first part of his baccalaureat

at Breguet (electro-engineering), then eftered the Foreign Legion at the

beginning of Wall. Subject fought in N. Africa until French capitulstion in i
1940, at which time he was discharged to return homo to Paris. In 1943 he wont

to Germany as @ voluntary worker, Ho worked there prinarily ag an industrisl =;

electrician, While in Germany he agsisted Arench officer P.0.H.'s to escape,
Jaiding them with cleverly falsified papers, storps, cachots and even wisn
It dg interesting to note that while subject attended school at Breuguot, he 4
also attended the Technicum for Cinematography. I* was from these past studies |
at the Tothnicun that subject-was able to develop techriqucs to epply to, photo=
mechanical forging of docurents, sterps, and cachets. Subject vas betrayed

to Gornansy arrested, and sentenced to death for espionage. Subject was able
to dreg fhis case out by inplying the existence of a lerge British run net :
of which bo ves 9 pert. In 19k5 he was Liberated by the U.S. Army and retumed ;
to Paris. Sudject lived there in relative quiet until he, together with a war- |
tine rriend, robbed a Paris bank of 2 oizeable enoant of money. Subject and
sccumplice were apprehended by the Suréte on 11 July 1950, sentenced to prison,
but released som. five years lator vor good behavior and on the basis of their

anal

war record.


i =o seuael

2.

It 46 interdsting to nose that Wille in pricon,. subject favented a rachine
= erie of the prison *

eh kne was actually built

for raking cardbeart bows, This :

acrinietrations and put into eee at thy priscn facverye Upen discharje fren

roled vo his broticr

prison {n tecesber of ws, sulteee Lived, wor'ed axincs 5
Cap, Frances. It tas while ‘thore ‘that subject was csntac-o! by this aceney and
subsequently brought to this country for use as ono cf.tw> avents, for ? Project

ASUIIUL,
Spartrent and fo. really

Stoject is presently resicing in his} Vaohe

\

available fer any intervicus,
Subjuct fe onzaged in his oa’ office in several technical gtredetsa which

could be of value to thie deorieg. Tso of his icoas have been nacsod forward
to TuD fer dovolopront/axploitation, TSP has expressed faterest in anotir
of hig ideas, the plans fcr viulch hate Just been comletecs
tdon/iaturalization has oxtenied subjects!

Alion Affaire Staff of Inte
backstepped residence status until 20 cetouer, 1960,

fe gical Leseripttoa
Subject is doseriied as 4A year old rale Caucasisa, $12" talk, of slick

build (136 Ise. avera ¢ weit), long face, long nose, ark vrevn hair,
Stina rerfect

balding in front, swarthy corploxions.Susject is oxtrerely
hoalth, fo fa an exe!rench foreicn logionnaire and gurviver o* Cerrar

” concentration capa,

Evaluation 7,
Sraluation

fubject's case officer agrees with sssesmant that he pessess’s tho traits of
@ born clandestine operator and would ba an apt candidate for aay blac!: mtecton

SEURET

thich requires:


3.

1, able-bodiediesa 4
2, ability to apsimilate castly (allowiny, for his physical features)

3. imate sense uf locational. eirecticn
Le supersorintolivence and reasoning powor ©
5. ability to’conprohend and apply Anstiucticn rapidly
"6. willingtiess to undertake on extremely havardoxws rdesion
7. basic technical and mechanical applied or theoretical abilities

"8, ability to eas and "now how" eiatarbin, dy averican in
character,

Kotivation

Subject's ‘(is icecterterl noro-than monetary. ihat-te-te-ray, SudJect has Little

rerard for the value of his monav, ant mist he stronsly vv-ed' to set aside a

part of his eamin:s. .uiyect nas a otronz distacta for the Communist rog ne
“6 a otep

and lca observed the elrects of it at first hand, Suwvject indeed x

farther, subscribing to the "Untervenseh theory i the iuosian peopla,

Tanguave Capabilities

Subject speaks, rats, writes:

French + native fe
Geonian =  flvant.

errsn = goal to fluent

imlish > reade au) writes fatr, speaxe fair

Subject has exhibited yecd subordination to his Case Officer, intelligent

security preccutions re his personal habits, and the ability to quietly fit

inte an American urban existence. Foray further information please call

CF sin, euros, MEARE



02 Dee Cost

satis11éé the aent cuntmet ec.

PoE
ae
a fas
I
t <
joa
| oe
| i
cial
.s
Hl
: ae
j a
ui °
~H
i
Fs
a
{
HUssege



FROM

SUByECT:

" until he re:

ren

u

x, © 5 SECRET
: Office Memorandum + unirep states GOVERNMENT

Riesia Division DaTE:

Mredtor of Security ' 4

2EASPIC, CI/OA Ho. C-73532

requested susrensiua of the cubject's yas hour custody
ea ‘trainings about 1 August 1950. - Your menorandin
0, to. 1996, indicates he will be place’ in a'safe-
ining about the’ last of Juiy 1960, and the vill
status on ocessicnal: veexends.

of 5 duly 19
house for
continue his present -unescorted

(2, his cfice hes no‘chJoction to ‘that procedize.

‘O02 OF SECURITY: - \

chief, Alten affairs {tare

SECRET



eee
(a Bn hed =
Ve ewes

OM wn.
—G



Pte mse tea yma

 TUtCs geese

(by interesued &

"EST Le Peas ued o
a/T trettns ve Lae titute

tO Sunt out Sublect!
fe

+ Be Bee jeet te peur
tresalng wil be giver $e
Mo Dele ATER, ad the.
A avguss 190." Pret.
seelirled mperstional Y



rile ae oo

amercoeats ba
UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
qrt-u-eo-“/ 76

DATE:

eaten .
Office Memora

Chief, Soviet russia Divieion/DDP 7a
Chief, SR/DOB Aug 1980
198

ndune

FROM. Chief, Telecommuiications, Training and Techniques Staff/0C

w/t Tdining - Agent ABASPIC,

SR/DOB 60-1990, 29 June 1960

Ls, ‘Thia, viL1_coafima recent discussions held betyeen

T \jof your Office end| ine lof my
(gearycyelativé to the proposed W/T training of AEASPIC. As
was. explained by{ \ w/? training of an agent on &
Tull of part-tine Basie; 15’ contingent upon the approval of &
specific project with supporting ‘communications annex,’ While
we have on occasion participated in “holding” training of.
agents without benefit of a definite requirenent, current
operational commitments nov make this impossible.

2. Should a definite requirement for the operational
utilisation of ABASPIC develop ve vill arvenge for the W/T
aptitude assessinent and training. Prior to our initiating
ceeb action, it 1s requested that a representative of your
Office discuss operational details with en appropriate
Foreiga Division within the Office of Cocmunicatious. This
Will enable us to tailor subsequent training in terms of
pyecific equipment ond procedures as required by the project.
Tn this respect, further information can be obtained by
contecting|_ "jon extensicn 8137+

Distribution:
Orig. & 1 - Addressee



‘UNCLASSIFIED CONFIDENTIAL

forwarded
eam ahich

fe thals be th

‘peronp 1S To aDWAIN

DocuwsnT S¥waoL AND Mate

ooquueny are fe sushewse

eee “ipearsee | 58h i comuent9

SOE FREEING OR

rome 0. 861 Gecret i CONFIDENTIAL UNCLASSIFIED aor

1oee 35



2h June 1960

PEMO FOR THE RECORD
cf

: SUBJECT: Biographie Information/Case Osticor Evaluation of

VILI, alias David DURVARD

David T2172

ie Bioprachte Tnforiation

David T2ITZICHVILI Was born 20 Lecendar igig al Toilisi, Georgia, where’
he lived with his parents until 192i: Subject at that time moved’ to France
with his ‘parents. Subject. grew up in France: end therefore Ranier native

French (Parisian). Subject does not have French citizenship, hovever, and
ned the first part of his baccalaureat

must be classed aa ‘stateless. Subject
et Breguet (elect¥o-engiheering), then entered the Foréign Legion at the
beginning of WWII. Subject fought in N. Africa until French eeritulation in
190, at witch time he was dischargod to return hono to Paris. In 1943 he went
to Germany as a voluntary worker. He vorked there primarily ay an industrial
While in Germany he assisted French officer ?.0.W.'a to escape,

cachets and oven uniforns.

electrician.
aiding them with cleverly faleified Papers, stamps,
Tt 1s interesting to note that while aubject attended school at Breuguet, he

also attended the Technicum for Cinematography. It waa from these past studies

at the Tothatcun that subject was able to develop techniques to apply to photo~

mechanical forging of documents,..stamps, and cachets. Subject was betrayed

to Germans, arrested, and sentenced to-death for espionage. Subject was able
to dreg this caso out by implying the existence of a large British run net

of which he was a part. In 1945 he was liberated by the U.S. Army and retumed

to Faria. Subject ved there in relative quiet until he, together with a war-
time friend, robbed a Péris bank of a aiseable.ancunt of noney. Subject and
accomplice were apprehended by the Suréte on 1, July 1950, sentenced to prison,
but roleased some fivo years later ror good behavior and on the basis of their

POLL ESYIZ

war record,



na

2.

-It de interesting to note tat while tn priscn, subject invented a rachine
for making cardboard ‘baxes, ‘This machine was actually buflt for one of the prison

adrinistrations and put inte operftion at tie prison factory. Upon dtécharye from
ee E \
t Lived). varied: ancwas pardled to his brother

prison’in Deceiber of 1955," su
in Gap, France, It'was vitle there tliat subject was contacted by this agency and

subsequently brought ‘to this country for usa as ons of two agents Lor Project

AESEUT DIL. :
SthJect 19 presently repiding in his Vash. :'.C, apartcont and ie readily a
available for any interviews, _ : : i
Subject is oncazed Jnchis eafe office in several technical ginnicks which
could! be of value to this Agency. Two of his idcas have been pasecd forward
to TSd for dovelopzent/axplottation, TS has expressed intorest in another
of hin ideas, the plane for which nave just bean completed.
Alten affairs Staff of Inmicpraticn/ilaturalization has extended subjects!

- backstoppod residence status until 20 Uctober, 1940.

ihyeical Leseription
Subject {a deecriied as hl year old rals Caucasian, $16" tall, af elicht
build (136 ue. avera;e weight), “Yong Caco, long noso, Hark brew hair,
balidtn in front, ovarthy couplexicn, subject 4s extromely/ani in perfect i
health, !e 1a an ex-trench foreicn legionnaire and survivor of Germain :

concentration carps.

uation

Subject's case officer agrees with Assesment that he possesses the traits of
8 born clandestine operator anc would be an apt candidate for any black mission

which requires: stergy


lL
2.
3.
ue
Se
be
Te
&

MCT IAT CN
Subject's/i1e ideological more than monetary.

abla-bodiodness 4
ability to accintlate oasily (allowin; for his physteal features)
Srnate sense cf locational direction

‘giperiofintolliganée and reasoning pewir

ability to comprehend and apply instruction rapidly

willingness to undertake an extrenely hazardous miesion

basié toctinical and moctianteal appited cr theoretical abilities:

ability to improvise and "know how" disturbingly American in
charactors é :

Kotivation
at is to say, subject has Uttle

revard for the valuo of hia money, and mst be strongly urged to sot aside a

part.of his earnings. Subject has a otrong distaste for the. Comanist recine
and lias obsarved the effects of it at firct hand, Subject indeed goes a step

farther, subseribing to the "Unteriensch" theory re the Nussian peoples

Languaso Capabilities

Subject speaks, rads, writes:

French. = native
Gogian = fluent

German = geod to fliont

inglish = reads flucntly, writes fair, speass fair

Subject has exhibited good subordination to his Case Officer, intelligent

soaurity precautions re his personal habits, and the ability to quietly fit

into an American urvan existence. For any further information please call

\ SHf00E,



TWanslater for French Letters

a
|

Feaiesiatae \

Freach-Desk, W.8.  X 3857 i \

Chesle' for. S/K in lsttors

Ea os

ISS Photo, OE BS

" Aecemmodedica Address fo 6 Daerd

Mes. Rucay pwAPB , KIVIS
Acwmmeds ties Address” foe Osvelets co ldo
|

leer: dé Prevce; :
Eduardo Calle
cams Posrae sory Gps)
Sac Pavlo .Brasef

ZeHlers fe My for Dawid 5
Rebord 0. Hazen
a PO. Ber fers
: Seth west Stofren
ee
U.S.A,

Ay 33477


You: are etaying in Ayar'toent “#109, Found’ floor at. Dominton Towers, |
at 1201 a Court Hoase Road, “Arlington; Virginia, You were gives

oe

ee

Ge

ty 2 5G477



ot : @

fe a Cedbsua
whey Ne athena Kory tres oth can RANA ok ne.
: a aes leases a DL ett
wim <2 SS Sues
deca Oot

fos

Lda Ort Sk gir bs bas)

rae hae thes Ai Bae Be pe Pagpede’ ve
foi” ria fares oe pL heise Mbper ote  <
Shes tae Re Ret he biet ee
Refotatn”™ en tee fag ate



4 - 5 eat ote faves, od cinta
“eke tee gm wile pee Re ee la me Rite Lier aan,
A wets | on Ba eae Dieta a Pe bad ha Hon pad
ee Mm Rad be dt as bu eh an. 1 Sow
Crm? gre. Lenton Hae t tow cae Oem ocstonim me
Cbd ett Woe bere eli Aerts orn, Sak ne ABA,
te Shea ole Jap nie La Cicer arctn. Ae
ted, wpe wn toes pole ae Bom? tum IT aces Fodor

Oy Soho hepie tO ed lee ee eee cigars

aA gad Ny

ipa Se tasaes Lon,
SEE GG ee

A enesta! ERTS LE se Pine
OF Ft~ obras were Cm Pat Kone iF SHH tage Adgageat ce





OE ints Pree Py :
: TE Repu) in op 73

od AOA YW
; Y BFP ' ares
a } 4Y 7 2 ay eo

%

a Peter SE

|
|
7G aad ae :
Q
|

|

Ly OS ar S20/o—

a foray oe AIR MAIL
a

PAR AVION
SY SY EY aay Ez a7 7


a aaberine Sy, eee
Pen SBNy tinePbe (oe ibaet
Se isa oe 2 3 . an

’

se A. Ee, ARTS
a Viele GRE aitola> as 106 fo Tend fo Ba

terake ey Aree Pron, Lie Bata: me fr: “A _
Mogh tn Sot Atte ye. afunid ae : x6

ey ae ola Mores bap radi esate an be! ia,
ae hap shes pele Date on pb. res ly Love done
Vases — ae Lo balan a toa alee fel Pe eee —
Ook, cee CH plows, pbeomnett, t6e 1, 3 A aoe
A Mrann tig iene fone fom Pay ie nahin Pinbby i

SOP Prone font! Beige peal N Hinll - 2
reba pak Ea acten ta ole Ee y Be ct be aA Sak
phe ob Cre Bay res

Fast wf 1 Monel ake ae

Fad b part pa Rppor Ean alte Fak
2
Tare ky


plead wed, 3. eh 2, ems fg
ig AA N
— foas ae os Bae ales mers
ao CLP bine a ;
ace is “plone Phat Phd:

hex = ce pac se ve 4 eta tins.
ee BESS Siem.
aay Be eS GO A

Tene wee Nei:

ea. 7 ES


"Caen ut “usttsa)

cine diated

8
. i. a
i fee reget VIACAIR MAIL -B


eS BM gS
7, Beh fe asta a foe fount Lagi
sc ieeeathentaeai ey Ane Prien Lrblon, Bh tes oe: Obn2 on Red
Mop Es to SOLS. Aorewinnye \ 0: hon fate Led elated
aed .

Fis Pav

Hons

ron

CPE, Ca Tices atte pb. PN Tee Sk
fast Pati OE ghd pp cect De Using being Aes
fon fn PRN. seat’ fp utr Za
[kh Poe, £0. Bont A ton on tk A Oto mga
Vt ah. baggie hoe Btss of Sa
“float fark rh Rent tla Pp ot Ee, warty Deda
aoe F btfeTa> eden OL en odbey gi.
: a Tae i


4
i
‘l

*: ATTENTION:
“SUBJECT: Treaster and Guartering arrangements.for AEASPIC.

SECRET

\ : $R/DoB/eu--ac 5

29 Septembor 1960

; MEMORANDUM FOR:, Chief, Alien Affaires: Staff, OS

cal

\ ‘L. Thia*ie to.confirm a discussion between |, —\
'SR/DOB std your office regarding transfer‘and quartering arrangements
for KEASPIC, David: Dufvard (a), and the interest expressed by

of Africa Division re acquiring AEASPIC as a long

Te
term aasct for that division.

t 2. In compiiance with a request made of this office by Africa
Divielon, it is understood your office haw agreed to the temporary
quartering of AEASPIC in a furnished dafe apartment located at

apartment 307, 5741 Colorado Avenuc, N.W., Washington, D.C.

Thid office, with your concurrence, has agreed to lend the use of

thie apartment for.a pariod of about two weeks, effective 28 September
1960. At present AEASPIC {a visited once a week and/or as tho need
arises, ALASPIC has hia own salary for, food and public transportation.
The oame.cover arrangements existe under this arrangement aa .

existed when Subject lived at 925 25th Street, N.W., in-his own apartment.
The cover Arrangement Je that David Durvard (a) is a technical ascociate
of Fred K. Komer (a) (1.e. an SR/DOB case officer). seif-empioyed,
manufacturers commissioned representative, :



€3-1236 (Coolidge)
22 September 1960

SUBJECT:, - PodsibYo resettlement of SR/DUB Fedsox Ageat

- REFERENCE: - SR/D0B/60-2011, 25: July 1960

oa
Jem end that’ thay wiebed to Invite the cooperation of the Company in _
be resettlement: in Hexico.City of an asset for vhan ve wisted to find
ee : _ omploynent. ~ . : iiaeseien .
aH eee 2. [7 ) after posing several questions, agreed 1h principle
: : that the company would be willing to supply such agent with employment
in their Mexico City factory. Hovever, he vished to discuss it with
the General Counsel and also to look into the lave of Mexico dealing
with the period of exployment end vhot provistona thare vere for dis-
associating. themselves with auch man should he prove completely un-
Secreta : satisfactory... It was then explained to jthat the Arency would
7 en like to be able to supply the agent with a reasonsble facimile of a
together with a message which would offer hin em-
ployment upoa hie arrival in. Mexico City. Again{_—————lapproved of
it in principle, but requested that a copy of the letter be shomn him
prior to its dispatch.

____ 3 Upon return to headquarters, the undersigned talked vith Mr.
: of SR/D03 and explained to him what vas needed to

s watiaty the requests of| explained that
within the last 42 hours a different division had evidenced interest
in the agent, end. picking him up for their use so that there vould
be no further need of the offer of employment ‘from :

explained 6 that the Agency hed. a resettlement prob-

: 4, The undersigned vill se. on 21 Septesber 1960 to
explain the situatiop and thank hin for his offer of cooperation.

FRANC L. COOLIDGS
eee PR per ABE IZ

FIC/ng
(co: Chief, SR/DOB



2 Septenber 1960

‘MEMO FOR THE RECORD

: . At 1i30"hrs., 19 September 1960, ani
H both of Africa Division, were accompanied to SX/DOB covert =
: ¥ to discuss: full’ transfer of the renairing AESENTINEL agent, oe

* AEASPIC, ‘to Africa Division.

+ -Pregerit for SR/00B wee C/SR/D0B; |
Dep. C/SH/ DOB. (APSERTIMEL “Project Case Officer) sandp—
. 7. os SR/DOB Cage Officer. : Eee eee tae nF

‘ and] expressed ‘an evid interest-in pieving
up-AEASPIC on contract for dpérational assignrent in Africa.Divielan.

: This office agreed to expedite insofak as. possible the handing. over

>!" Of AEASPIC. and, at the request of Africa ‘Division, to assist in certain.
J prestraining., "= : a ee
SR/DOB, hes agreed to arrange for AEASPIC certain clandestine

training ard processing (denolition, small ams, medical/trmuni zation)
in corsorance with Subject's projected assignment.

This action will obviate any Mexican resettlement procecures for
‘ e

AEASPIC,

Aor DAIKIT



David Durverd

axe: Robert G. Bullock.
i : ai
“2221 North. Buchanan Street

Bours

) to exiting physician
ra $3.

zed on FF

agelicctie,
so be cupplied.,

rleted Ferm 89
piyotctea s%

reqired, co pléted Fors
igaaturs sro required.

cera sr Te
donated i:

x ast S, s 2 Subivet oF

Lee itighway, turn right one block beyond Glebe Road. "Hedical Center®
sign, Parking area provided. for LI2LI7



20 September 1960

MEMO FOR THE RECORD

At 130 hrs.,.19 September 1960,
[([—} both'of Africa Division, were accompanied to SR/DOB covert
“site to discuss’ full transfer of the ‘renaining. AESENTINEL agent,

AEASPIC, to'Africa Division.

Present ‘for 8R/008 were } ¢/sk/voB; 7
2. Dep. C/SR/DOB. (ARSEMTINEL Project tae Orticer);and
:$R/DOB Ca: Officer. = : : -

: expressed sn avid interest in picking
itp AEASPIC oi contract for. operational assignment in Africa Divicians
This office agread to expedite insofar as possible..the handing over
of. AEASPIC and, at the request of Africa Division, to assist in certain
pre-training.:

38/008 has agreed to arrange for AEASPIC certain clandestine
training: and processing (demolition, small ams, medical/imnunization)
in consonance with Subject's ‘projected assignment.

Duis action will obviate any Mexican resettlenent procedures for
AEASPIC. :

Jeb 257477


i
ad

30 August 1960

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Mexican Resettlement Arrangements for AESENTINEL
‘Agent AEASPIC. : ;

Laeaeapes to fit the new identity of AEASPIC. AEASPIC is as yet

1. -At'1330 hours; 26 August SR/DOB case officer
met with] of TSD/IB
and / of Office of Security Contacts. At.this time

a.name, for AEASPIC was agreed’on and then.passed on to
so'that he in turn could ascertain the job possibilities
for ‘A. s possible Mexican Resettlement. The name agréed
on for AEASPIC was Dimitrius I, Difonias, a Greek name to
fithis Greek passport. TSD/IB is ready to draft and arrange all ,
necessary Greek documentation for AEASPIC as soon as a job
offer through] __ Office can be firmed-up, which should
come about in eariy September. SR/DOB is to furnish TSD/IB
passport type photos with negatives. This has aiready been
arranged for with) "___Jof this office.

2. SR/DOB case officer,
of TSD/1B is presently engaged In writing a cover story/

unaware of any resettlement arrangements. It is hoped AEASPIC
can be utilized by some component of the DD/P, however if not,
Wien these resettlement will go through as per plan.

Pes 2 35477


26 August 1960 epee
MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD : . : \
‘SUBJECT: °. Personnél for Contingency Force \

1,. ‘There :4e presently’ tn the Washington area an indivié~
peara to Be eultable for the’ JHARC Contingency Forces
igned Case Officer ‘of subject 'aid
that he ia. adaptable to the: program, Subject
“Contract Agent of SR/DOB-vho was"trainéd for a specific

cruited, had been living in Frances ‘Subject's background appéars
to qualify himas he bas served in the Red: Army, the French

Foreign Legion and-in addition has received varioud training
incinding para-ailitery, while"under Agency sponsorship, Sub-
ject is umdtting and has good ‘fon-U.-S; attribubility. - :

2, SR vould Like ‘to 00 Subject utilised in some capacity
as be represents a large investment ii tine, training end money.
SR now hae nothing for subject as bis intended mission was
scrapped prior to dispatch because of the then forthcoming
Visit of KRUCHEV to the U.S, Also, subject's resident permit
Vill expire in October at which tine, unless he ie continued
on contract etatus, he will be. re-settled in South Asorica,

3, Attached you will find Bl and Case Officer evaluation
of subject.

wH/4/PA

Attachment:

oe


24 August 1960

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Biographic Information/Case Officer Evaluation of
: David TEITZICHVI!, aise David DURVARD

Blographic Information

‘Davia ‘TEITZIGHVILA was bora‘19 July 1918 tn Toiutet, Georgia;
ived With his parents until 1921, Subject at that time.
moved to Fraince with hio parents. Subject grew up in France and
therefore speaks native French (Paiisian). Subject doce wat have
French-citizenship, however, and must be'classed as stateless.
Subject earned the first part of his baccalureat at Breguet {electro-
engineering), then entered tha Foreign Legion at the beginning of
World War M1. Subject fought in N. Africa untii French capitulation
in 1940, at which time he was discharged to return home to Paris.

In 1943 he wont to Germany as a voluatary worker.. He worked there

primarily ae an industriai electrician. While in Germany ho assisted
French officer P.O.W,'s to escape, aiding them with cleverly
falsified papers, stampc, cachsts and even uniforms. It 1a interesting
“to note that while Subject attended school at Breuguet, he aiso
attended the Techriicain for Cinematography. It was from these past
studigs at the Technicum that Subject was able to develop techniques
to apply to photo-mechanicai forging of documents, stamps, and
cachets. Subject was betrayed to Germans, arrested, and seatenced

to death for espionage. Subject was abie to drag his case out by



implying the existence of a large British run net of which ho was a
‘part. In 1945 he was liberated by the U. S. Army and returned to
Paris. Subject lived there in relative quiet until he; together witha

4, robbed a Paris’ bank of 4 sizeable. amount of money.

Subject and’accorplic were appiehended by the'Surete on lI July 1950,
ry ntenc id to prison, ‘but released some. five years later for good
7 is Interesting to”

Behavior and’ on the baal of their war "Eecord.

note that while in prison, Subject invanted a machine for making
actually built for one of oe

cardboard ‘boxes Tits machine’ w
prison administrations and put into operation at the prison factory.
Upon discharge from prison in December of 1955, Subject ilved,
worked and was paroled to his brother ia Gap, France. It was while
“there that Subject was contacted by thie agency and acbsequently
brought to this country for use as one of two ageate for Project
AESENTINEL,

Subject is presently residing in bie Washington, D.C. apartment and
is readily available for any interviews.

Subject is engaged in his ‘eafe office in several technical gimmicks

which could be of value to this Agency. Two of hie ideas have been

passed forward to TSD for development/exploitation, TSD has

expressed interest in another of his ideas, the plans for which have-

just been completed.

Alten Affairs Staff of Immigration/ Naturalization has extended

Subject's backstopped ‘residence status until 20 October 1906.



ranma reine no. 84 zs

| Office Memorandum + UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT 7

To oo: Mee Spnest ¢,. Haycrink DATE: 20 May 1959

rao :+ Special Cont¥acting Cfficer
suaject: Record of sonthly salary paid. subject expleyee
i “+ Gash pata - Deposited to Balance “Initial

Date
Escrew_ account, Due’
2450.00

3L50.00

20 vay 1959'| - ” 30.00 -

~ 40 Jewitt 4,906.00

U4 S-b.0¢ Wis Gee

AS 0.¢6

 S0.00
paabdss—
ALARY DYS DeSiTiew ACCORD AG

F150 eo

 foco.es

a at am SO.’ FSO.
= Avy ish s LZ go
: 27 dg. 1 = (60.20 2668.00
eed Seat iwi 100.20 208C.¢0
a Spb 4 2g cu.ee
23 sph sg 4 Seo, eo = PRESae at HH
2¥ Sel sf 2730-00 i
Def sf IG S060
Lt
24 00,00



AO ee}
; 26 pitts :
L772 pr bs -

20 eMezto |
20 Jinelo

a

mo eee
b Gash Sehey Ten Feb
i

Yor. 66

iceah’ Se lory Fel - poy i ; :

i

LL:
i
|
i

fey be. Spite -bec. ereirad

x os
OTF eo,

dao | El

leiy e ey

j Cork Salery Msrhped £ Yoo, co
‘Cash AS cuny 7S.co ;
‘ : te | Z



conducueds
the layt rene for Us

TMs wesorante: is mts

\ cn apy: deotts use La any
7 | this: fnforsation ebouid be nico wilde

| plat courdiaditon With ths

ris mabine Isr:
received fa.

request &

uP SEOTIIVt

FM mF

Shtacinont

ef

er Sects

Be Balt

sd wekess ma des tien).



~~ Washing tens D

Gredie &

formstien sas obtained,

t Weabingter

Hc sdeitioral bogrephical to»

oye



$d, the Subject'é
‘g Xercestile Agency, dacorpsr8 :
Bl Agent Albartote Ney ext rersele? 9, cred

fleets the 212

Anwesty

st

hasrg No. Tirgihfa 0. &

Ager Abort

Kechtal Statas+ Separated

n¢_dparteente) -

Famws Residencss!

Previews Ernisprantat

- Snildng, oF 3
GaCO Lar BINT,

tag files ¢

3o tora 1
seatta age a8 37, Me y Tétn Strack,
: year renting irc edeet ts 2

x9 Bhavor! Ls



VWiclatics Bursan, sad thy Co

ze i \
NAL Ah SUPPERS TV

iy oamaoas

in 27 May 1960, te fLlas.of the Metropolitan Pott

i

0
Central Sepreltor7, vers ousreiad in vin haze of te Subsect with
Regativs results, | :

ANCR ALA ees
at Bashington, De Co) 7

“on 22 May 1960, strenpta’ tal dotelo3 bioy
Subjact proved negative ab ths

bla Drivers Lisates emt
eis leas sod Mirror Consens 3292
tof tha Subject,

PUméOb, a Lerner plece of exp]

rents.



sR/DOB/67_ZI%

sdaiy er. =

“MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, OS/Atich Affaire Stalt

ATTENTION:

Change of :iving Guarters, Case of AEASPIC,

SUBJECT:
. C1/Oa No. G-73532 ~

_ Iv Background:

: Subject was brought tothe United States via HBRAINBOW
flight-on 20 Apri: 1959 for training preparatory’ to dispatch.on a binck
misoion into the ULS% as a member of a REDSOX team. CI/UA
Division approved (No. C-73532) on 1i March 1959, This mission
haa been postponed a8 of 17 June i9ev.

2. In view of the effort asd expense devoted to the recrult-
ment and training of AEASPIC, SR Division has deemed it worthwhile
to give Subject’ certain ilmited additicna: training prior to operatioaa!
utilization by another component of the DU/F. To faci:itate this end
it is ‘requested that subject, towards the end of July, 1964. be
permitted to be moved to an SR/DUB safehouso on the outskirts of
Waahiagten, 0, C. Subsect will remain there unti? final disposition
of his case. Athough Subject has conducted Aimseif in an exempiary
manner re hia personal habits asd sease of security, fina! disposition
of Subject can be better accompiished in a more controled installation.

3. It is anticipated that fina: resu:vemont of the case of
AEASPIC; {.0.' operationai siliizatioa by anoiber component of the | _
DD/P or resett:ement, witi be accomptishéd by 2U October i9bu, |.”
the date approved by O5S/ Alien Affairs staff whereby ACASPIC can
legality romain backatopped in the United States.

4, it ie further requested that ACASPIC be permitted to
cuatinge to spend occagionai week-end free time unoscorted within
the limits of the greater Washington, J. C. area.

3. pubjéct witi'¢ ntinue to be advised and guided by an
SR/DGB Case Uificer ro Subject's pereona! ‘ife and habits.

Ar hs,



pase 6.. Subject. witl be avtherized co access to transportation
i other than pubic and/or occassiczai rides afforded him by his
Case Cificor in an SR/DCB vehic.c.
"2. Subject's safe office sii. be terminated and vacated at
: the samo timo ag hio apartment. :
[> .. || 2 8, For any farther infsreatica'piease contact]

SR/DOB on oxtension 3331. .

Acting Chief, S2/20B



en/p03/60- 19 4 0 :
29 June. 1969 i

: MEMORANTUM FOR! Office of Communications
ATTeETTog “- 1 Chief 0C/TTT
SUBJECT t W/T freining for 8/10 contract agent AEASPIC

: 1.. It te ‘requested that W/T aptitude asséssrent afd: subsequent
Jf training-vo instituted at your earliest convenience for SR/0D0B
contract agent -AEASPIC. This tra:hing 18. decried necessary in order i
to-round out Subject's clandestine training for operational utitisation !
by interested ‘DD/P componente. f i

j
1
!

2. Subject to yair concurrence, it is anticipated that. u/T ,
training will-be given Subject et a safe office located in the dome
town D.C. area, -and then continued at an.Si/DU8 safchouse beginning
1 August 1960, Training ia to be maintained until Subject ig a
qualified operstional W/T communicatar.

: 3. Trensyortation for the communications instructor to end from he
the training sites will be provided by SR/TOB. :

le Por any further information, please contaot (—
SH/DO, Extension 331. :

Acting Chief, SR/D0B
PC/ ge
Distrid.: 0 & } - addressee

1 = SR/DOB chrono

SECRET Hr Lidysy |
|


23 June 16

ORAHTGM FOR THE RFCORD

SUITS fascontinuance of Project AES

1, for 1900"

(nl? dune 1960, SP/POR- was inforned telephonically by
con/ax (Acting Chief E0/ Dive) that. Project ARSEMTISEL
would -nob-bo-carried ovt this yoar(L7U6)e ae

Qu the foanibilsty/practicabllity of carryine cut tis project
at 2 later ate would of course deperc on the Line of Undted States
holley Visea-vis countering the Soviet throats

3e After duc co has taken
tue ALSENTEIEL arente,
ic, 1b 49 felt that he could be of def.
this Agency in 6 sink capacitys This office 1s
in finding a job for fi .



-“Feturned, 14-months afterwards without lode:

8 : ee 7 May 1960
30 Rue Catanis
Paris XIV.

Sees even a letter from Fatt

Hurrah} At-last, at. last everything -ha
a we have waited for this one tecause it's the only oné ve have received. Ne
heard here an‘'theresss Ajibo has a.letter,. Fat ts in South America Fat
anithen, nothing for ssi we thought this was dirty,..you know
vérything, ‘we did not think for ofie. fonent that you ‘ould ‘have: :
‘or-confidencé| “sell, youtre alive tut.
joyed your stort letter...tut it shoul? be a ve

r one year's silence. Do you understand? One whole year’
{ andwith each-———_ our thoughts: ©

‘aeithout kmowin™ afivthings imag?ning the tors
care’to:naught.in’séarch-of Fat, the 1ifelon:
to sreat of Nni: who ‘grurtles. All that ha

-Y Keen Stile. It's Colette: who sripes afd-cri
“three tives. rore“irritatle..:It coes: without. sa, i: »
tut sohave We. For years.she has not had any vacation and is crushed by worries,
ig unerplayed, anc “oesn't have a cent, Not only is it not funny, it's also dise

~ aistings We hoped until the ‘ast. minute,for your rresence at Nina's wedding, .
fhich was strictly “ussian.., the facade at least, tut also the reverse sit ~
230 people, an excellent. buffet,

champayne, (cruchon?). etc.... Ceorgian dances and
an atrosphere 50 woncerful iaat the solemn 2r7

Lieut. Konestier lost his ‘feet and
danced (dragged on ty Stanko) the Georgian Pancel Ther: are pictures to prove
ft which are in the Hands of Nina dnd Bernard. ‘these to are living the perfect
love, with a capital A, fernard 4s charm every way. The Monestiers have
given cenerously tut we should do the sam. Victor who had sromised 90,000

gave $0,000, Aunick mast haye loaned her rather 80,000 on Estits pay and Eernard
Joaned $0,000 to your father-in-law, With Mina gone we have lived on ‘Aunick!s
salary with debts more debts. (vaste?) having stated that didn't have a cent
until i sti, angry acter 19 ronths without leave sent, for iis wifes Aunick
departed for Algeria by plane asking her father to pay tack the money loaned
Wdthout leaving us atything to live on. Vic didn't.have any money, tut the cay
Etter Aunick left, he went on vacation to the Eaiearic Islands with Laridge and
a certain Earearal Nelly, no cossibility of vacztion or anything. ‘We don't

Zoout it. 1 had to torrow from everywhere to live until Aunick 7
and not able to rind ( illegitle)
They care to [ive herein one roon, and they toth working, but Esti has to take
“tire off very often for examination, plans, etc... therefore Aunick jives us
20,000 per month, Colette rade « few dresses, Nelly took her teauticians course
Sna soon cot her dirlora, She looked for a jot wiicn she could not finds She
was too young (she's 18: years old.) This is + to show you our joy of livinge
and the chan. in
Life expensive for us, |On top of everything T
nee January, * s spent two weeks in pital an‘ he's going for five
ronths to the m s, Leaving us to pay the rent, the os, the electricity,
the water, an¢ if that isn't enough, the taxes. (waich he forgot), This is our
debteridden lite, Wnole days without heat, without ight even without bready
ond shen will this end? If Colette only found work, and Nelly too, tut nothing —
nothing. I'm lsoking Yor those religious “nouses where we can ask for ~ittance,
but great catastrophes like Frejus and Agadir take up all the possibilities.
This gives you an idea of my veakness, and I'm 50 years old, I can no longer work
as I used to and, as Zor my friens, except for (illigible) who payed for Nellyts
studies Eribri who is. faithful tut no longer has much money, that's all, The
Worst thing is the lac’ of heat, This gives you a few details on the joyous
Life that all sive of us are lcading hee, AS Zor Nina, she's out of all this.

even speak

wacter of. Colette who (illegitle) for nothing and makes
‘4

an operction last year.

€

Jaye 433477



the

2. : ix
: : 2
$he is 2 an easy life and-rather fash‘onatle life. - Her hustand is at her feet, it
As Wonderful for ners Aunick also has a wonderful husband, trt with us therete
alctreutlé, (Eilegitle) on life Cabinis stylet: -Hopy irene
He ites people whon te: doesn't like, .He's the darling of Colette”
:o chases the rice which infest the kitchen, Now
z w= life tous quieklys How long :have you
there, 2 iny has a taken $0 long to write? Can you come. 1y?.* ‘Bae.
Noverter-or Decenter is quite distant. . Dontt-you think that I'll leave for
the, other world withoi ous They! restelking absut thee:
(with Rared-for October. Rive there is no. reason: why you's!
"you, knowing now :that We've found you again’ t i
You:in peace.”

‘ou know if you-can help us out do
our life. If in June. you
k vacation, , You willbe. doi
y end physically. Tf you gore ‘back that, wt

ve Colette the.

fas if years id: yesterda’. Her sonS+in-law.Maguy aid-Lodlou, both sane,
SithNid ones, With this I have, tothered you enough, for this: tine -butT
wanted to put-you-in the avin again after ayeare

pot Mes’ you, have all thé months without any news. Don't start that over’
agains E

The whole family is going to write yous Even lazy Colette but ©
what wouldn't we do for yous

rent’ of steny



yw

Zp Didy fp nnentes na sen Ainin
cae ia

pee te Sow
Lowe fod a
Be ers wee, Nets oti
rk = nal a eran io Con

Prin 33977



* poe St oee a few bmw Ame
peed ee Pe ta oe A tO

pete od

Chuiretie: tern “fond Wey. “ah fa bored. wep Pblnt bee pai bia
Ohmricdra— of tratartad fend Xeera— wren BPE eet sinha
Peet Lore hent fr A tttrred pogti whi. edeee ener)
Vreeet | Botte Bement Cotett. a fat fran ? rote oer’
faed is

: -
tas obxcobes | headake toatemaeet ot Ante sted dee WoRloteet
aati ea Arr. frente Rutt ammeter

Afet be pam ae
a. A:

as te. tapdenrekn Wane A Lisa Pim Por’
th bec fap pom (og Tod
Cre top Ppa fit peasy
wt OW chealy civent OL Cad aed cm VC et,
fate fom pussieyaaniaueniniy's coset towel Sow deed an be
Four Combe fan wi af fe

fot faetee etre a fetes



oe aL ange 2 ot. Lobel “be
fet ie tals te Fee Bt cAnte, Gy
Dicer Oi fdand ji Ph tee tee fore .
C4 Am Cons aa t Ten tebe Bett fa Bee:





aa ae a
ae os ae

; iy

|

q

B qi ae =e
a :

|

Po ratck VIA AIR MAIL

PAR AVION

SEI GY EE  peey SE AT) aS Se




ee lic es a

b

a Clea pat A hbe Q
go 2, Vaute 4
Le a BP vig "Aik MAIL” Q
a ey

PAR AVION
]

aay hy bP
SS ey G9 vy my aay

all





¢
OP wedte” ole:
4 chee hab nL 8. pen ch le
Le

7

Fe gow Tow tes Hida dt





(BAW Asie A!

Pete BO

Aerie ys . add l |
Ed 2S mond 0 Hk
Dod age. eek aot’
Ee a hed
toe
Bee. Khor oe ym
Foede wotec. 5. det
Dat odatinle dig’ spelen
Ce hra- tee lr tee
fore if
Berd ..
Aosta NEL pn an
fasta bese ey

A

Bu oe el



30 rue .Cabenis :
Parle 14.0...

king-me if Brasil 1 realy-existing,if the. |
ifthe mail 1s -inventéd there are they -

Nelly twice, Nini
i cause I hope -¥

It‘is. no necessary to k about our life...Toa

‘gein-my letter to telling you your oncle Keresselids

ko was here and sdid he“had written also and nad

never received an. answer.

Mme ‘Kwinitadze' is dead and also Mr Galoblicnvili,one of this

day that will be my turn.-.will I see you again before.? °

If that letter didnot arrive,I give up.

We are kissing you all of us.

Grandma. os

dtp 433 ¢77



Paris, March 7, a

Very deat Eavarde, ae : : i
se ore besinin to enter Lf you were AEDT on this planet or Af yo Bid
\

0 tha mol” fee ceeutety
_Staeo the note thet: you sent mea a tev days after your dshartare, we haven't
r 0 ver recetved your first! letter and Ir was, even very

angry for ea told | me ‘that nab had received news of you and that you were

4n South America, As for Hethela I really don't imow if she received your
letter but I am going to write her a note, --As forthe others! I don't know |” :
“ghetr address, Be 80 Kind as to give it to me so that I can carry out your
orderc}i} Timo passes with incredible ewiftness and unfortunately life 1s so
ronotonouss Apart fren Nina's marriage, which was a great success and during Pte
which we had a very good time, there's nothing very interesting. Nina and “ ix it
Bernard found an apartment very near the house at Bd, Auguste BlRnqui almost
at the corner of the rue do la, Santé, the building hich 1s behind the 1ittlé
gas station at the end of a long alleyeway. Catch on! As for Titi and Aunick
they are still at home but would like to find a place of their owe

You're exaggorating when you say Hopy the “pisser™ which is completely
wrongs You should instead say Hovy the "biter" far he bites Ketyy untortanatelys
Yeaterday evening the whole family was gsthered including hele and Maguy to
enna aret Sah sleet LS sumers} The etmosphere vas very friendly; and
just this.norning,a letter from you bright and early. It's on extraordinary
piece of luck that it's still in one piece as it was pouring out vhen I shouted

a letter from you. You can’be sure of getting news from the whole family and
I thank you for loving us go sincerely! My august former husband has just

for BIIYT7



he

Géught double pneumonia, again, he'l1 be sid up at lesst until September which

“tes ‘plunged us all into (free trafislation) our ears in debt -- matter of mney

~ naturaliys ‘Therefare, I'd like to tell you that your letter makes. mo very-happye

* Tou should’ cortainiy a ‘anea with the aost, beautiful frane that.exists in this.

whole: jride world for there’ TS eureiy no two: like yoa hes far -as we are concerned
in

. oatarelly. May heaven take 4! hte consideration toward the rexission of a jor

at stopped this letter yesterday evening when Odile came to visit ne to
wish me a happy. annivereary vith a bouquet of flowers. She staypd for dimer
as well as Haguy. and all ‘three of us vent to the movies to, see an old fils

which wes very funny "You Can't Take it With Lou? “in which James Stewart was

still younge
What else is there to tell you, you kmow our life...nothing has changed.

$o,1 impatiently avait another letter from you telling us what you ore doing +

with many details, It vould be really nice if you could be here for the end
of the year. In the meantime I kiss you affectionately.

Coco

do 23374



oe er

“al: ; *:
: Nemes teu One | Were, ue fiecde, cal te,
aeeilae es Wy reve tee te Hi hetik ou ble. ie ee hae
GHAR cu 4 eee ter, ba, feet! : a
% . > 1 4 caatae he it
we they 2. eld Ce a oS a rn
i femes. epee. boy ee icy ee;
lian Sareealeeetels sel i

: Wo ee
wee th teed 6th. oor Pes Sei
A VAN tar) lok,

Be BLOF Neh ‘de ,

ee

Leelee
Lette ates
Gen

7

Be ed olcr

nmr eh,

co

PRO Wt ete le gy a tee I oe
" Warbebo uy Fahne :

wey Pep



Diet Gnawa. de Mun

“er MN eoapteyy

@

peeeeler ells et ee

; : ers

ates OD A teres bet ais beac.
eae ver oe tiauleeaoudauie Pile: era APs ene he Aen

Nae.  Runsrd ot (eee

aye Ly cat ae

i Shine =
pen le Lt ge te

aa Seco rama? ae ot ees

ole! :
: Laveen Ge i

dau & i
ere noted =
a
Pearse

tates phe

ite jes
caret

es eer ou

MEN Se fees

or Same :
corns OO 7o a fe
Ber venes coord
Cee Prarie I io” Cr tated | el Vidureceercul
ek cet fas ne Une fe Ff

pou

Ph ee wie} fd Var beter
bow (oo) YE Bi aie.
holies cee or Lente vee
Rowton ° bs. b Mle re Dae
tithe aw & CO utr ePanedi- |

i ; : |
x v ee que! lhe mer

Biber” ce the

lecea

eed fk

Luar.



be

bier sens

Ean Coy Tan etecetel~
[pRo. & eieue tard

ee fer tas
bo ates Ea eww te

bee teh, fred.
v

fe RS LE gad

Ak G coef ten
Von Fa rnenuiaesn He

wo tle. eed OP! of! :

Pde ie Unies ey ea i lige

noo Veta veo as

MeO Ot tere ea


eu ay a

”

Uris he

cosa fou! WA ed, yi

Noah

mo Corde t
deYacbs

i nko COrwnar
. a ae Trt. : rd :
|
7
i
'

a iv eee
ae :
‘ ~
‘ . Webb to. - 2


ate, Ger F
pe ey ee a on pres bo

DOE 7 oo

LES. faepusuque’

P ‘> TaaNcate y
goss +105
ee
Calan poral 44 qu “ Logo) j :

_ $po oe

| BRASIL

Ay SY AY ey sy oy my



9



“ey

Paris, -2h March

Hi ¥aa,

T hope thet unlike myselt you received my letter. Since the nailing of the
‘last letter a sensational-event occurred in the fardly. .A fourth daughter for.

As you asked re, I sent ther: your address and

Ateh, Sophie, Born oa Mare 13

ry congratulations.
Yesterday Loulou care by for a‘ few mimites in the afternoon to give us. some.

very tad news. His father's condition is-very bad, We are afraid ‘it isa funor

of the lung, Unfortunately, when one says tumor, one often mcans cancert I hope
to God that I am mistaken, Little (eligible) the cousin of Ramaz had a fine boy

"s the latest news}

naned Christophe; and ¢
The children should write you every day, but if you want to chew then eran
here is Nina's address: Mme. Monestier, 159 Bd. Aucuste Elangui,- Paris 13.
Kelly has been working since last Monday in a very stylish and territly

expensive little shop, The job of sales clerk seems to agree with her, It is a’

store for expensive lingerie at the corner of rue Mromesnil and St. Honore,

I am writing you all curled up in the corner of the Kitchen for we are out

of heat and today, after a few days of radiant sunshine it is raining in torrental

What crines rust I have committed in @ previous life to lead such an ugly -

fet :
Write us quickly and tell us what you are doing. ide know nothing, since your

last letter never arrived! I am waiting impatiently for somé news from you, In,

the meantime, I kiss you affectionately,

“Coco



ie eeieanect pes a
tha Uae
- ep. qe cowl eed Pa wee tne oo
c Y . : : . : eee
a tan Geen Tag ee te Hae depen ae.

eth dartecese Sav eat ~ame eA

ed chee hun “Liha

i:
panne

Deven OU pet leeds, preg hae te cds
eee es
Tu eed eT ee fe a
Ope ape rare Si} vere Pe i
a

dik Gyn



pineuen lv Ueuetuvanin Gaewaayovan yt ae i
ue vee e acce lle ! _ :
hes ef ant daveb Pee las fee

aa : Ca unvers. Cleam Ube
Ui 4 de fan ge ore dete ieee
Hiren? o& OF El Pe.
de any oun pa crrey es Lee dan, Uh.
tein de en Cae Cor lerws weet
Aaws dee oe a4 and! tue } awe
gah een ae cl’ ue ee) vedi, Sop.
e alt ek oe de Rings : :
daa trtien a “fe caren jn este

ce fees ve atl. ee | et
" £

i arCeree oe yurete ?
: ete. Kets dda gf hace Wen ee:

: Ge ‘aes 4 wes La tava ten omen fer
a ted eee tet tea fameoss arnten |

iE atl Je Tes tena laa” owlee.
wet ie ai

aor 3 nw ns ©

apo e


4
8
a
a
a
a
a

Cola potad (A474 Sopa)
SAO PAULO
BRAZIL

VIA_AIR MAIL
PAR AVION

a

Q

a

Manin Eluarde Cable 2]
a

Q

|


Paris, March 25, 1960

Dear"Eduardo,®
Bverytoty was very happy to tear fron you again, Tou know that Mimi and
Mana have’ already written you as well as, undoubtedly, Nina and Nelly. Therefore,

T’a the very last to wita ‘You but. that doesn't mean that I don't.think-of you,
__ Tete-almost a year since you left, Tine passes rather quickly:in spite’ a
“ ererythitngs Everybody ‘mst have already told you the most important news So

mich the worse if T talk nonsense,

Lest August 15 I-vent ‘to meet Tit tn Algeria, We returned together early
im October, A whole year passed vithout our eeeing each other, but wth letters
erery day, and we found each other as if wo had parted the day before, or almost,
It was funny to seo Mitt exercising his functions as a second Meutenant with a
section under his orders, What a pleasure to find myself with him there, Now”
when Hebert and company speak of military eervice I can Join then. The life of
ah offieor's wife 19 not 80 bad. One 4s spoiled] The first month we were at

“the aea shore, Since I love the heat this was. just the thing for mel Titi left

every morning at 5 o'clock to join his sedion 25 ku from the place vhere I was
staying end returned only at 4 o'clock in the afternoons == the weeks passed
quickly except for the beach == and still we could not. go very far because of the
guerrilless In short, apart from going out to lunch, I stayed,so to speak, :
suttered up in ny room waiting for the return of my lord and master, I tried
to go awinming-alone,lut the city and the beach vere full of soldiere ond I gave
up quickly. You cannot imefine,I think what 4t's like to eat clone as a woman
in a restaurant dining room full of soldiers, I did not dare to raise ny eyes
fron ny plate end,to feel looked et while eating makes you become clunay. Hardly

' : At L5I877°



-Brocedure Having alsost, been
“Ws would like to” have a homd of our” owe Certain people don't understand wy

aay women except some niddie-eged cnes who give me side ways glances, Thora

ws Plenty, of youth but then too” they looked at me like 4 China doll, That's

\

. ‘enough for my "military service’, |

Tit went back to the school of fine arts, he's coming along fine, Unless

_ Someone its] hina wonderful. Position he will contimié at the school. It vill

Be very longl He also “works foi" an architect fet tira, Pinally you imow the
t' yourself, we aro.1s6¥ing fot an spartinants

we want to leave 1a-rue Cabonie since there's éiough room there, First of ali
there ‘dente that mich} We have to quasip for the bath roomy 4f Titt wauitd’-to
valk ground in his shorts he can't do it (Atta not. that he 4s accustomed to doing i
this sort of thing) and the people can hear everything that's going on in the .
Toom, And then again it's very understandable that we want to have a place of
our own which we will furnish as we like and where we will ‘uve as we like, To 7
spend a full day in bed or to eat, at one ofclock in the norning, etceseand.theny
too, there is also a little friction between Mama and me, Itd like to shake her

ure If you can do it ty letter don't hesitate. _ Sho!s getting bitter how cai sho ~
do otherwive. She does nothing or next to nothing and she's letting herself gos

~ She could be so cute if she did what's necessary to gat’ thin,and despite her

4S summera she's stili well-built, What ofie needs is a man to take care of her,
to take her. out and pull her out of her conatose or almost comatose states I
shake her up oftan but ag for he I am abrupt and sonetines I say vhat should not
be said, I'd like to find her a part-time job, something pleasant uhich would i
cause her to get out, take a walk,soe people, etc, Bvidently the house is less

gay than previously and,nevertheles?,we are still hero. What will it be like

when only Nelly will remain who is hardly ever here because she goes out with

Ranase And thon there's another thing;people criticise Mana because they see

her with nothing to do + I allow mysolf to criticise, but I refuse to hear

Sqr whey


3

. others do ite

i ‘te Bibert stlonastiers, almst next door to us, exactly in the butiding
gcrdse the stroct. fron the nétro-Glaciero, They found an apartnant; bot, hold: on
to yourself 346005200 france depoatt. tts crésy, It!s their .
io loaned then the woney wich they are paying ‘back at the rate of "10,000 ‘frmos
por noathe They, hevo'recetved many gitts and sre completely furnished, “Vo se

then frequently. Rolly’ win to pesutetea school “ated Lasted three months.
she Liked it very much, but acter PEP ox, she didn't find a job. Through ae
of iy meted “-foind her a 30 as a beginning sales clerk while waiting, tut :
perhaps at the end she'll Like Being a sales clerk vetters ‘She's been working
since Monday, Nina is still in the sane Jobs Shots ‘vaiting inpatiently for
Bernard to make enough money go she wn't have to wrk

wand 1a sti12 the sane fortunately. As for ma, Itve changed professions.
am a model-Pos't Laughs Eridentiy 1 ox beginning in this career, but I hope it
will work outs One can earn a lot of soney and it's a tiring business bat pleasant
and feminine and a lot more, interesting than the Job 0a secretary shere you rest
jour behind one chair ail day. “I bégan at the beginning of November and T worked
until the month of March, I've been uneaployed since then, but I'm doing a lot
of looking around to find sométhings The mannequin Seabines" are forsed only ~
toward the ond of May. I must xako some photo tryouts next weeks Photography

brings in-much more, If only 1 works out I'd like it very muchs :
ee, Louis and Néthela quite often, Nathele

Whst more can I write youl We
has changed’ Jobe and is now earning 150,900 franes a ponth, Not badl Hurry up
and wite us and tell us about the things you're seeing. Do you Like Brasil?

vy doar Bduado T an going to leave yous Write quickly if you cane 1 give

you a big kiss and hope to do it for good one of these dayse

Amick
Ay A33477



cage re :
,
DN ne Ts he

> a

4
Be ewe th | 1

’ has ca te.
ee he
mma bf

hn

hepa

aay alma ie ta chet: fae vee por rerrmcsn
& 'S Aah ern A aera y

te Alpi a
oy Annee Pes ae Pinta i ‘oifeh. i
Dat Hew, . asi oa

Perey eto new, DOr

ALLIZS 77



3
odPY rath 2h Nitta noak
aol 2 i
tue ey BEEBE; PURE peter wal aia
Ppt pate arg 28 NSN a oF te ees en
mri all pe fj chats aa ;
7 (dd effee. RAK peo

whew — ete
© Gan

bre

: aie tonsa vel

\
Pongo

tua.

la.’ ee aly fe oe +
ek ee & =

ol, sapoathe. ut = ‘ '
mo Kew tte an bel cle fe mee
Gans 9 Aine Pei che [Pee f tous dee. + mae
fils be oy veer Pies ec BA ey mae eles
Se ve etion Pune any Pau cle fanelia Foo
petted af ng teehee ge a wh res
7 ; ae
aenT “mle os

€ apes cre ob! i Let Lean andy tees
i .
2 web Stacie

a
of
_ a pate

a Pape

rue :
ola :
oll inclas tins te
eh Mas hie J ow

wole o™,
anne

ola oe Peeters
Y . + eae t wa el

an

ataaters tes mores

Laitonce: awn :


\w

beiai ; i wen SF eee ‘
a ne je~ : ft i Fa pon fe qe
ht gen le mange _ pen f-— (clan

wre pall ak fat a eb ole

are oe ee a a oe te yee ck
ee eae PF ae eet pete
pe he oe
Joe os we i
—_ eee
Tne AE eS es ae :
ra ae eS pm eye elan

ol Tata it / Petia j iieiel ie be i
pte Prentice ee Leparlnt
a a a a
er ee oe fae » ali:

TH tet am OE de Bea
Cis marche. A men qe em bn” profes”
ce oe Tat A, mica t, 1b emf

0 fracas lle

i a
t

1" Eel. és (Peewee fore
ott hag fe ty het K, Em pn
[aa Comm a, fe 1S Ces gent Ae

wee, pcg teola, New vechercbn,


ee on Wim. au Pie 4
frre ett, 7 a
ol, Pa rea

8
Sd

ol, fe

Jawai gf

Pt ook,


\

Cad pa Blea us pm keofee _ eb CoP min |
oe EL foochact ehh

: aaay [apnoea qa 2 occu je fell
led al aak Co SNe, ne AC TY TE cher & :

Comat On [ee gee = kh Ps Deo
Pou, ma me re ae Pron ge
FE

(area, a be Fan fur :
EE ea hy a
uu I AIKGAM fahetitedara) ee ae ote, f°. fe...
ce aes fry oF ancl new fs
ee

tren ta i re

“ey Oana pee ee

~ Bae Siw Rte et



LWA

: Griese fa gn fant ate Fam ay :
Ef pak if oy a rr | : ; a

: f ‘Memon a :
|
tres. ol. Ont gues : maw t ae
Collen keely tanh fh fae =

fe Bebut Moshe Sot pea oe
(ay, roller PEGI gl Guiateleenieo on i .
eT
zat AUEe ale) pall allaly eu ve| wm af potent aad
mar. ote tine. tr bus 4 mo Chinn . be
eS ees pw tl fore cl pare .
oe hclUL Cool

Van gem of. lo.ero * ‘aes ie row .
Th mr um tran cor ele ca cleans
a amb pre lle Ft mmole we Palen: CA



elma Boman . Obs ben [bork bees toup

© Mew tH Sotant . eth. no 6 ps Auten. -
[tow _ WEA the ele - Ae : oe
ba ae Flown ine. aD fac ole ven oleree

hPa tn ate olant Mow petite
-,,hrrrC~—~—Cr—“( i;
Mra 2 rele Fravel tl. ole fees : boned.’
ee pews ee

beh El, offi. nl aus be pa tien oe

I~ Bere on ol Gt p~ "3 | oi
ta ree Pocfouns Pa meme | thansasonent!
Jom om F Perea ,° a hop cle mito,

me fal ered tear er i vapid he —
Fol thy te 2 eliarmnat claw. ta Cwin Uk Hd

Prone pope get le menthnn on
Joe the brea coun. dong et
CE tn ma he fF pont ea

apuath af fren 8 EK: bu phn

ooh


oe ont aa é me he ol, eed Thats
ou tim auf - be olen uch ge trek
chante Fowt— ean’ ae 7 ete
ee ole tnt oles mee -
: ol Never te er d a Prowse i aed
els tay ol. mean ele Mars ft eaoead

Rem age ef mae fem
el. Te : eb Py pesca ae } ee uhieurey
Y hacee Poy aee thn. de, Cab ol 7 : 4
mm foment gen fe Me =
ol for ele eae peete ba: Loa
Pom ae frechane i ptete takpek
tn ton Jeo. Powers gees cela wiarche. ot
Cla me tat trance ph! a
~ fe lacmty tne | Now, Voy ons
owen f 7a ete) Peg are Pere
Nath. a a change el bate eh

ft ay ees eerniss tell yw 2 fm ey shee

a Pelee feo maf!



Derek: af rave
a
lacmh, Pu
ho plob tb?
Man

a fan “he

ae

: Den

foo
oe
Sow Apes fe te fx

ban ole

at
a

“* Foluarele ”
Fis

7 u

ne

Pe al

fot et

ol | bes

nm

ee



>.

WLLL ee

Mem tun Eolas 6 G
Cakya [ota ie ig
Sao . Panto :

BRASIL

_ 0)
rel

par AVION: |
= ; AIRMAIL; i
AG EF ~kS EF BI. SF -&

ao EF &Y &7 &7 £7 &





Fema

My old " Eduardo"

Everydody was very aappy for receving news trom you. I know
tat Srand-ma and Fonave already written ani also Nina
and Nelly 4X Therefore Iam the last one,but that don't mean
I am not. tainklag. te yous

Tete Nearly one yesr you are gone but nevertaeless the time
yery Tat. -Everyone -Tast have already told you tne princtpa
dees no aeceei If itwsnaer. ‘ :

Past 15 sugust,i. Join TITI{nusband) {n Alzerta,and west

back together: in. tne early. days from October.One fatwnole year
without seen each otder but one letter every single

“Ne met again like we xever were. separat or almoss.Taa

Such platsur to seed again.Now wnen those :geatlesen ave speak
fag. military'duty:I may join them. —- :

Daa Officdr's wife life 1s not so desagreable after all.We are
pampered.’ first month wé wera'on the beach.I like warm wataer

yand had ‘more a9 1 was asking. for. TIT was living at Sam every.
morning. to, Joining :hizsection 25'km (16.mfles) from where f was
and retura-only at 4 p.n.T; Pesources were fast drained off.The
: Deach,end ‘even. we coula-not go very far because the fellaghast

In-short ,going to eat “for lunch that: was sll,iwas almost ine

i. return of my Lord ‘and Masber. I have
try,all right,to going swim alone,but the town,the beach was
flooded with solders.I had given up very fast.

I Gon't think you can Imazined a woman alone in restaurant
room eating surrounded with solders.Tae felling from ‘every eyes
watching you make the people cluisy.There were very few women
watch were looking to me not very friendly. Enougan speaking from
my "military duty",

TITI has been return at Ecole des Beaux-Arts. If no one will
proposing hin & very good Job he will he 1s determin to follow -
the school.Tnat will be long. Some time he 1s working for some
architects.We are looking for an apartement,we will like to be
dn our own.Pew peoples do not undersend why are ‘wishing to live
this plece.Mother and me have sometime few words and we are not
always agree.1 wish to shake her a little,and if you could do
that,witn a letter do not be afraid.She will be so nice if she
gnly would try to be thiner.I. think she need a man-wao can take”: .
4 care of her, remove -her from that comdtose spirit. I-did shake ~
her-several time but i am to-abrupt and I am saying what I mast
not I would like to find a job for her,waiea will oblige her
to go out side and see peoples. aise i

Tne house is less merry today than before,but what will be
faen Nelly will take off.She already goes almost every days with
Ramaz. And something else too,peoples are criticizing Mother
because she 1s not doing anytaing-I may criticize but I forbid to
the others to criticize my mother. . :
: Tae Monestiers are living not far from here,exactly in the

"building who fece the-subway Glaciers. Tney nave found an apartemer
but with 1 million six hundred tieusand francs for the key.Crazy
is not? Tae grand fataer loan the money and they repay him with
‘10 60 frs a month.Tney have xmriza ‘receive many present for
the mariage and they have furniture and everything they need.

Ra) We see them very often.

Nelly follow an esthetiq's school. but she has not found
Job yet in that line,so she work as salesmaid since monday.Nina
is still working in the same company. She 18 waiting that Bernard
earn more money to quit the job.

Meme {9 always in the same shape,fortunatly. I an mannequin
now. Don't lauga at me.I hope this job will go very g004.Faticuing
Jod but agreable and fezinin.Certataly much more intersting axx
waanxanerstaiza than sesretary.iave your benind one whole day 15
not very funny. I must maxe some Photo test next week.It 1s pus
possible to earn more money witn that and I like it very much.

Waat can I say more.We have seen Nathela and Louis.Nathela
now earn 1S0 000 fra a month.Taat 1s not so bad.

Rush us a letter ani tell us what are you doiag? How like

you Brasil.
¥y old"Edouardo"I will live you now and write us if you can

T klas you very very strongly and nope I will be able to kiss
you for good’ some of this days.
ANNICK
+7

“2hay77



Very dear “Eduardo”

We wre starting to asking us if you were still on this planet
or on the moon.

Since your little word sended right after your departur we a
were without news.I had never receive .myar your first letter. and
a. little mad after you because Loulou told me that Athico had
“newa fros you and you were in.Soutn-America.I ignore completly

if Nathela nas receive your.letter but I willwright to ner. I
ignore also-wnere live the others people snd I will be glade if
.you can give thes adress.Already 10 month since gou-are gone.The
time past with an Incredible, spoed.Beside Nina's martge,waich
sm Very. Well, nothing interesting.
.. Nina’and Bernard “nave found ‘an apartement very close from
our house, Boulevard Auguste Blanqui,corner rue de la Sante, tne
bullding.which fs standing beaind the gas-stationsYou see ?
TIC and Annick are st{ll wita us but wish to find some place.

to. go.

Yesterday evening the whole family ’was together plus Loulou
and: Magy to: celebret my 45 springs and just this morning a lettes
from ‘you.It-was. lucky your letter was still in one pkce when I
seroamed 'a letter from you! ° : é
“You canbe ‘sure ‘to receive news from the whole family and
we thank you.-for :gour:love for us. -
My “duguat. nusbatid: had catcned again a double-pneumonta and
. that willkeep him until september, therefore that ‘plonge us in
dificulties to the neck....and you may imagine wita wolch happynes:
I nave read. your letter. You are certainly the only one to be like
that in our world. God bless you and za must take account for the
remission of your offences...Alleluta |”

I have stop this letter yesterday evening.Cdile and Magy
were here,we nad diner together and went to tne movie-James Stewaré
was starring. :

Waat say next,you know our life,nothing 1s change.I am
waiting impatiently another letter of you to tell‘us what are you
doing. That will be so nice if you could be tiere for the end of
the year .Until them I kiss you lovingly. iu

col

Paris 24 March

Dear Old

. 2 wee 1

I hope you have receive my letter .Since then a sensationa
event happend .Born march 14 th,a 4th daugter for Atchico,name
Sophie.As you ask.me ,I have send to him your edress ...and ay.
congratulations. moment .-...

Yesterday Loulou stop by us few minatma to tell us that
him father is going very bad and tnat can be lung cancer.We are
hoping it‘{s not.

Little Manana,Ramaz cousin,give birth to a beautifull

baby ,boy,is name is Christopne.Tnose are the latest news.
Tais is Nina'S adress ;
Madame Monestier
159 Bd.Auguste Blanqui. Paris 13

Nelly ia working a3 salesmaid since Monday in @ linin-cloth shop
very expensive one corner rue Hiromeanil and St.Honore.
I am meat writing in the -kitcaen because tne heating is

off and today after few suny days it is cold end rainy.

Waat crimes have I done to live such life.

Speed us a letter and tell us what are you doing.Your first
letter had never arrived.

I am wating impatiently news from you and until then

I kiss you lovingly.
coco


Toree letters from tue Grand-mother

General meaning; I am geting old,tne life is difficult,whst
are you doing,Nina's mariage wi @ success.
Moralgty: Send-money soon as possible.

Meme Grand-ma.

AGA 35977

