# 104-10062-10046

## Page 1

104-10062-10046

SEGRET

US.

Waite file

6 MAY *373)

MEMORANDUM FOR:

SUBJECT

Deputy Director for Operations

• Media Inquiry to Cuban Exile Journalist in

Miami re Cuban Involvement in Watergate

Case and Attitudes in Miami Azea

1.. This monorandun is for your information only:

2. On 7 May 1973 we were advised by Station WH/Miami that

wo enployees of a scation wa Mian proprietary haditold the

Station that one

Rene VIERA Gonzalez,

a Cuban exile journalist

who writes for Diario Las Americas and owns. the Westchester

Mall Bookstore In Miami received a call in early May from one

FNU COTTLIES who said he worked for the Tines in Washington.

(GOTILIES IS belzeved to be santora Gollules, 14102 Brandywine

, Kensington, Md. Who was tormerly an enployee of the

National Committee on Sano Nuclear Policy" A pretext call to

the Washingzon bureau of the New York Times verified that one

"Sandy" Gottlieb was employed there.) COTTLIEB asked VIERA

what people in Miani were saying about the Watergate case and

what participation the Cubans had in it.

He specifically

asked about the activities of Reinaldo PICO (former 2506

Brigade member), Orlando PIEDRA (former Chief of Cuban Bureau

0f Investigation in Batista Governnent), and Rolando HASFERRER

(forner Cuban Senator and self-admitted

former Communist).

Ne also asked 12 ITT had an office in Niani, whether Joaquin

SANJENIS Perdoma (Iomer Chief of a liniMiami propriatary who

anicably terminated in 1972) and Juan A. PAULA (former

WH/Miami proprietary enployee and forner Controller of

Revolutionary

Democratic Froni-FRI-and currently employed by

an OGG proprietary)

were still in the Miami area,

He was

a150

interested in Edgardo BUTTARI, a Cuban born in West Tampa,

Florida, a former Cuban Congressman

and Minister of Commerce

who is reportodly associated with Mr. Charios "Bebe" REBOZO.

According to GOTTLIEB, BUTTARI

was appointed as "political

chief in the Republican Party"

# 4308

---

## Page 2

14-00000

- 2=

GOTTLIEB apparently has current information on the

activities of the persons he mentioned; for examplo, he

Knew that Juan A. PAULA was involved in the jewelry

business

PAULA and AntoniO FeLIX GENOVA Cozo, a MI/Miani proprietary

employee recently purchased a Jewelry

business) anc

L'he knew

that Reinaldo PICO had resided in Venezuela and had rocently

returned to the United States. The phone conversation lasted

about 45 minutes and GOTTLIEB told VIERA that if he came

Miani they would have lunch together.

to

4

VIERA does not know GOTTLIEB but talked to nim

because

GOTTLIEB said he was reconnended by !

who

has resided in the Washington area for nore than ten years.

sas a former Agency asset and is currently Chief of

The conversation was

Initially in English but continued in Spanish.

VIERA said he

provided no information to GOTTLIEB on the basis that he is a

Cuban exile and did not want to get involved in internal u.s.

affairs.

We do not know why GOTTLIlß was interosted in Joaquin

SANJENIS OT JUAN A. PAULA.

(Attached are summary biographies

of persons of interest to GOTTLIE3.)

On 7 May 1973

Chief,

ABINETUAD, was

briefed on the substance of the report from

Wl:/Miami pertaining

to Juan A, PAULA, Who works for the

NAMUTUAL

which utilizes

Among other duties performed by

he proprietary ara the monthly checks sent to the dependents

ot imprisoned assets which are signed in true name by paula.

was unaware that PAUlA had purchased a new jewelry

business in association with Antonio GENOVA; however, he feels

that WHAUTUAD is protected and compartmented from the WH/Miami

proprietary and he has the utmost confidence in the proprietary

boing able to field any questions.

tiflutuad communication with

the proprietary is by unlisted phone and a post office box.

EVANS said that

could possibly be linied

to

but the trail would end there.

Ho

feels that either proprietary could only be linked to the Agency

by innuendo.

(He did say that Howard HUNT was aware of

MrNUTUAD when he served as C/CA/EUR.)

feels

securc as

far as

and

and

concerned.

0/ 11183

vier

---

## Page 3

14-00000

-3-

mentioned that the bona fide law firm occupying

the

other portion of the MiNUTuAl offices are the attorneys

for

(These lawyers are cleared and witting.)

One

of the layers told

will be the "biggest

canary singer of the year".. The conmon receptionist area is

manned by MaNUTUAD employees who also monitor all telenhone

calls, incoming and outgoing for the other law firm.

mentioned that there have been numerous calls from

the media

and outgoing overseas calls to such places as Japan and Europe.

will be traveling to Nassau and returning vis

Miami on 10 May 1973. He intends to talk with his proprietary

people at that time on other fUMUTUAl business and will also

contact COS, WH/Miami.

(The COS has been alerted to expect

a call from EVANS on 10 May 1973.)

Jazes E. Flanzery

James F. Flannery

Acting Chief

Western Hemisphere Division

cc: Director of Securizy

Attachments: A-I Biographic Sunnaries

---

