104-10439-10115

Po Cot 18 WYORS,
D4 as WO ir wo
Code —


13-00000

‘WB SECRET
> KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY
FIELD DOUBLE AGENT GUIDE
August 1960
_Y
‘weaeaeneehnne?
é KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY
)

kof Hf

PR
2488

F SECRET


13-00000

WB SECRET |
5 KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY |
|
i
FIELD DOUBLE AGENT GUIDE
August 1960
Oe
|
eae? |
a KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY
2)
a |
SECRET i

2858


13-00000

9

L

O.

SUBJECT

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

FIELD DOUBLE AGENT GUIDE

TABLE OF CONTENTS

INTRODUCTION

THE DOUBLE AGENT OPERATION:
GENERAL PRELIMINARY CONSIDERATIONS

A.

B.

Definition

DA Types by Origin

I, Transfers

2. Walk-In or Talk-In
3, DandD

4, Provocation

Goals in DA Operations

1, KUBARK
2, Adversary

Selection and the Four Key Tests
1, The Tests

a, Withholding

b. Stayability

c, Adversary Trust
d, Control of Communication

i
KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

G0 SECRET

PAGE

2-24

3-6

9-10
"10-13

10-12

Copy No.

@@@ sECKET


13-00000

@MP SECRET

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

SUBJECT

2. Significance of Tests
3. U.S. Citizens as DA's

Planning and Preliminary Steps

1, Estimating Adversary Goals

' 2,. Information Needed for Planning

3. The Plan

4. Preliminary Testing of Bona Fides

I. THE DOUBLE AGENT AS A PERSON

BP SECRET.

Willingness

Emotional Stability

Emotional Attachments to Others
Level of Intelligence

Gullibility - Scepticism
Trustworthiness

Ambition

Clandestinity

Introversion - Extroversion
Other Traits

Summary

ii

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

PAGE

2-13
13-24
B
13-17
17-22
23-24
25-33
25-26
26-27
27-28 \
28
29
29-30
30
30-31
32
32

32-33

Copy No.


13-00000

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

SUBJECT

Iv.

THE DOUBLE AGENT AS AN AGENT
A. Prior Intelligence Associations
B. Continuing Investigation

. Training

Cc

D. Testing
E, Control
F

. Agent Motivation
THE DOUBLE AGENT OPERATION:
SPECIFICS
A. Access

. Appetite

. Production

. Mirror-Reading

B
Cc
D
E. KUBARK Security
F, Adversary Security
G

» Communications

iii
KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

GRP SECRET

PAGE
34-46
34
34-35
35-36
36=40
41-44

44-46
47-69

47-51
51-52

52-55
55-56
57-60
60-61
61-64

Copy No.

iit SECRET


13-00000

8% SECRET

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

SUBJECT : PAGE

H, Finances 64.67

I, Reporting 67-69

VI, CASE OFFICER'S CHECK LIST 70-82

vo. INDEX 83-90
eee

“ iv Copy No.

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

Wi SECRET


@® SECRET

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

Field Guide for Double Agent Operations
I, INTRODUCTION

For the past two years KUDESK has been engaged ina
detailed analysis of KUBARK double agent cases. The
results have been collated, and the findings have been dis-
seminated within headquarters in a study which is also
available to the field upon request.

This guide is intended for field use by case officers and
others concerned with DA operations. It represents both
the above research and the views of a number of experienced
and senior KUBARK officers.

If field reporting of double agent operations includes all

essentials discussed here, further research on this subject
will be facilitated and further guidance will result, ina

continuing cycle,

The comments and views of the users of this guide are
solicited,

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

"3 SECRET


13-00000

Wp SECRET

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

i Il, THE DOUBLE AGENT OPERATION:
GENERAL PRELIMINARY CONSIDERATIONS

A discussion of operational details appears in Part V
of this guide, Here the purpose is to present basic infor-
mation and principles about the beginnings of DA operations.

A. Definition,

A double agent is a person who engages in clandestine
activity for two intelligence or security services (or more
in joint operations), who provides information about one to
the other or about each to the other, and who is wittingly
withholding significant information from one on the instruc-
tions of the other or is unwittingly manipulated by one so
that significant information is withheld from the other
service, Peddlers, fabricators, and others who do not per-
form a service for an intelligence organization, but only for

i themselves, are not agents at all and therefore are not
DA's. As arule the DA has an agent relationship with both
services, a fact which distinguishes him from the penetration
agent, who usually serves the CI service as an agent but the
target or adversary service as a staff member or ina staff
capacity. Multiple agents frequently draw a variety of
assignments from several services, Although they may pro-
vide counterintelligence information, and although they
present difficulties in handling and security which resemble
these problems in the double agent operation, the two types
are distinct, The DA is usually directed against a single
adversary, whereas the multiple agent resembles a private

L detective with a number of clients.

! The part of the definition which stipulates the with-
holding of significant information results from the fact that
an agent who tells everything he knows to both sides becomes,
unless unwittingly manipulated by one of the services, an un-
authorized liaison channel with the enemy. Such situations
are unprofitable and cease to be operations,

cigs ‘SRIRED
KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

QD SECRET


13-00000

@@@ SECRET

7 KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

_—

B, Types of DA Operations by Origin.

Almost all double agent operations begin in one of three
ways: a walk-in or talk-in, hostile agent detected and
doubled, or a provocation. KUBARK often acquires a DA
case by transfer from another ODYOKE service or from
liaison; when it does, it is important that the type of origin
be included in the information obtained from the transferring
service. A DA case can also result if one service offers
recruitment to the agent of another not because of provoca-
tion or stake-out but by chance,

1, The Transferred Agent.

Analysis suggests that nearly two-thirds of KUBARK's
DA operations begin (for KUBARK) by transfer from another
service. Usually, however, the transferring service merely
made initial contact with a walk-in and turned him over to
KUBARK without having used him operationally, If a going
C 5 operation is transferred, it is vital that the base or case
officer accepting jurisdiction obtain the case records of the
prior service. If these are unavailable, knowledgeable
representatives of the transferring service should be de-
briefed as completely as possible. Flaws imbedded in the
operation may make it unsuitable for exploitation or may
require correction. In addition to determining origin, the
KUBARK case officer should obtain the prior service's
assessment of the DA, both as person and as agent, Even
if the case officer considers that the earlier handling was
defective, he should give due weight to such an assessment.
In a few operations KUBARK has repeated the mistakes of
the transferring service through failure to obtain an assess-
ment or through ignoring the earlier record.

2. The Walk-In and Talk-In,

More than half of KUBARK's DA cases start because
an agent of an adversary service volunteers information to a

-3- amie.

( : : KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

Wee SECRET


13-00000

@U® SECRET

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

t non-Bloc service or official, Although the danger of provo-

Hy cation is always present in walk-in cases, the fact remains
that DA operations that have. begun in this way have, as a
class, proven more rewarding to KUBARK than any other
type. The agent of an adversary service who approaches
KUBARK and volunteers information about the advérsary has
a choice of a number of means of making the first contact.
In addition to presenting himself physically (to KUBARK or
any ODYOKE intermediary), he can send an emissary, :
write a letter, make a phone call, or even establish radio
contact, KUBARK's problem,clearly, is to separate the
walk-ins and talk-ins who are acting on their own initiative
from those who are seeking contact at the instigation of a
hostile service.

3. Detected and Doubled (D & D).

About a fifth of the DA cases handled directly by
KUBARK have begun with the identification of a hostile
agent, interrogation, and doubling. Analysis suggests
that in peacetime D & D cases are frequently perilous and
unprofitable, The agent's agreement to double, obtained
under stated or implied duress, is rarely accompanied by
a real switch in loyalties. The likeliest exception is the
agent who served the adversary unwillingly, under pressure,
and who (though afraid to approach the authorities on his own
initiative) is relieved when his clandestine role is brought
to light, The risk in handling D & D cases is also mitigated
H in joint operations conducted with liaison services that can
i exercise strong executive authority,

i 4, The Provocation Agent,
Provocation is the least common origin of DA cases,
When employed, it has, in the past, been used by a Bloc

service against KUBARK or another Western service more
frequently than vice-versa, Provocation may be direct, as

-4- ae

i KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

Wale SECRET.


13-00000

ee SECRET

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

in an approach by a walk-in or talk-in, or indirect, The
latter technique usually employs an agent whose access

and other assets make him attractive to the adversary and
who places himself in the way of recruitment without seizing
the initiative. Provocation through direct approach is
plainly difficult if the adversary service is sophisticated,

Even the agent whom we initially consider detected
and doubled can be a provocation, We may have learned
something (but not all) of the story of his ties to the adversary
because the adversary wanted us to. Or the agent's con-
fession may be partial; he may withhold, for example, one
channel of communication to the hostile service and then,
through that channel, tell the adversary how much he has
told us.

A provocation agent establishing initial contact as
a walk-in must have direct contact with the target service
at least once, And the target service, if interested in the
C H bait, is likely to try to arrange for future meetings on

i: territory under its jurisdiction (or that of a cooperative
service), Under such circumstances the provoking service
usually fears some slippage of control. The provocateur
who never appears - who makes contact only by mail, W/T,
a go-between, or a like medium - is less likely to be
acceptable to the target service, and if accepted is less
likely to be trusted, But the security and control advantages
for the provoking service are obviously weighty.

KUBARK use of provocation seems to be a rarity,
so that the available evidence has not provided a basis for
estimating our effectiveness in using the technique, Because
its value has. been demonstrated by others, however, personnel
are urged to plan and mount, as feasible, provocation oper-
ations designed to yield counterintelligence of high quality.

5, The way in which a double agent operation starts
is of continuing significance. The chances that KUBARK

ease. -5- ae

( t KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

er SECRET


13-00000

‘Me SECRET

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

will ''get the edge" are best if the agent's prior service

was with KUBARK rather than the opposition, are better
than average if he is a walk-in who has not delayed in

telling his story to a non-Communist official or service

and who passes KUBARK testing, and are poor if a detected
adversary agent has been compelled to double, As the oper-
ation develops, the case officer should not forget the
Significance of the way in which it started,

C.-Goals: Kubark and Adversary.

~6- Renta

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

(BP SECRET


13-00000

Ga SECRET

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

sia -7- Bs ad

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

WE SECRET


13-00000

QB? SECRET

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

~8-

n

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

$20 SECRET


13-00000

BM SECRET

o KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

2. Adversary Goals.

Analysis of a number of unilateral KUBARK double
agent operations has shown the following adversary objectives,
listed in order of descending frequency:

a. To obtain information on emigres and emigre
groups outside the Bloc, This goal is frequently coupled
with the purpose of gaining information about AIS (or other

i non-Communist IS) use of emigres,

b. To penetrate the AIS or other non-Communist
services,

i -9- eae,

(3 KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

We SECRET


@B SECRET

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

c. To acquire intelligence about U.S, non-intelli-
gence personnel and organizations abroad, principally
military.

d, To serve other adversary operations ina
supporting role,

e. To obtain information about AIS-associated
organizations abroad.

f. To assassinate or kidnap.

g. To ensure the safe return of an agent detected
by the AIS,

h. To exploit for KUCAGE purposes.
i, To recruit or place an agent inside PBPRIME,

j. To establish an agent as a long-range illegal
in the West.

k. To determine the fate and whereabouts of Bloc
intelligence defectors,

The early discernment of the adversary's true ob-
jectives is important because determination of hostile
appetite, obtaining clearances for release of information to
the DA, other operational decisions, and termination and
disposal require an understanding of the purposes of the
opposition, Of course, the ultimate goals of the hostile
service may not become evident for some time. But esti-
mates based on targets, access, and the DA's potential are
still useful,

D. Selection and the Four Key Tests.

1, The testing of a double agent should be continuous,
and a wide choice of testing mechanisms is available. But

-10- Saas.
KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

$00 SECRET


13-00000

MGWY SECRET

os KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

before a decision is reached on accepting or rejecting a
DA opportunity, asking the following four key questions
will help us to strike the balance.

a. Has the potential DA told us everything? Or

are there any indications of withholding? In particular,
is there reason to suspect that he has withheld a communi-
cations channel to the opposition?

b. Does the prospective DA have stayability? That

is, is he emotionally and psychologically stable, and are
there good prospects of conducting the operation on a long-
term basis? Can he sustain the anticipated stresses
indefinitely ?

c. Does the opposition trust him? Some indication
of degree of adversary trust may be found in his length of

service, che nature and level of his assignments, level of
pay, and quality of communications systems provided him,

-u- ER

( fe KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

‘Wee SECRET


13-00000

#2 SECRET.

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

Direct control of a DA's W/T link would require
the presence of the KUBARK case officer whenever the agent
receives or transmits. Although direct control is not
usually feasible, monitoring all incoming and outgoing
transmissions permits effective indirect control, Such
monitoring has the advantage that it can be concealed from
the DA.

Most agents to whom hostile services communi-
cate by one-way voice-link are scheduled to receive broad-
casts at least once a week, One preliminary test of bona
fides, accordingly, is the monitoring of the next scheduled
message after initiation of the double agent operation,

. 2. A potential DA operation need not be rejected because
it fails to pass all four tests. But negative answers are danger
signs, marking the elements of the case which must be
regularly re-evaluated as the operation progresses,

i : -2- eee

KUBARK INTERN AL USE ONLY

(3 SECRET


13-00000
GBP SECRET

( KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

E. Planning and Preliminary Steps.

1, Before a DA operation starts, a considered plan
should be prepared. In its details the plan is necessarily
more tentative than is most operational planning because
the operational initiative rests - and should rest - almost

G } entirely with the adversary. But usually we can estimate

a the goals of the opposition at or near the beginning of a DA
case, If we have a good idea of what the enemy is after and
if we know everything essential to our part of the case, the
hidden fraction which constitutes the double life of the agent
and the operation, then we can plan effectively.

~13- Esnterennane,

‘a : KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

Qe. SECRET


13-00000

Whe SECRET

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

2 SECRET


13-00000

GOB SECRET
C . KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY
C i KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

@e SECRET


13-00000

WE SECRET

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

- 16 - ies.

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

883 SECRET


13-00000 \

RP. SECRET

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

-W- cme
KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

WP SECRET


BP SECRET

‘

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

1m SECRET

-18 -

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY


13-00000

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

UP SECRET

-~19-

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

SMB SECRET


13-00000

@@ SECRET

" KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

~ 20+

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

QP SECRET


13-00000

‘ie SECRET

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

m, Time and support available, The base or
station planning a double agent operation should consider
whether enough time and support will be available, Ideally,
the case officer who will conduct the operation should be
staying in the field for a lengthy period, so that a transfer
is not required soon after the operation has started. He

. should have enough time to conduct and report the case
well, Assistance should be available when needed for
surveillance, countersurveillance, monitoring of radio
communications, control of hostile dead-drops, continuous
testing and assessment of both agent and operation, and
other time-consuming essentials. If time and support are
inadequate, the operation may consist almost entirely of
periodic debriefing of the DA, with little or no attempt to
obtain information independently, Under such circum-
stances it may be better, at the outset, to drop other activity
to make room for the case or to reject the prospective DA
operation, 2

C nn. Termination and disposal, In some long-range

- operations no plans for termination and disposal can be
made at the outset. In other cases, and especially those
intended to run for shorter periods, it is best to plan the
ending at the start,

-21- eae,

C KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

"We SECRET


13-00000

QB SECRET

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

Prosecution is normally ruled out because of
the necessity to avoid condonement and legal entanglement,
But if a decision to prosecute can be reached at the
beginning, all subsequent handling can be designed to pre-
serve the chain of evidence and other requirements of the
court, In such cases, including those involving U.S,
citizens, KUBARK should either bow out, as a rule, or
seek immediately the assistance of a duly constituted
executive authority.

Joint operations usually present fewer problems
of termination and disposal because of the facilities avail-
able to the host service, If a unilateral DA case is to be
turned over to liaison, it is usually best to do so before the
dwindling equity has disappeared completely, so that there
is more chance that liaison will accept jurisdiction and
less chance of irritating the liaison relationship, Early
transfer has two other advantages; it minimizes the amount
of information which the DA acquires about KUBARK, and
it facilitates legal detention in those cases in which pro-
longed interrogation of the DA is desirable.

= 22 = wien,

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

WP SECRET



‘Wee SECRET

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

4, Preliminary Testing of Bona Fides,

A thorough testing of bona fides requires the avail-
ability of all the information outlined above and in Part IV
of this guide. But in one or two initial meetings the case
officer can conduct the following quick and preliminary
tests, to be augmented by deeper probing as the operation
develops,

c. If the agent arrived on the scene recently, any
friends or relatives of his in the area should be traced
quickly. If he is a provocation agent, he may have orders
to establish contact with a friend or relative who has an
established IS tle,

d. The agent's documents should be subjected to
téchnical examination,

e, If LCFLUTTER is to be used at all, the first
test should be made as early as possible. Refusals to
undergo testing should be reported, as well as any indi-
cations that the agent has been briefed on the technique.

-~23- Ss,

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY.

BP SECRET



13-00000

9 SECRET

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

f, The interviewer or prospective case officer
should be on the alert during initial meetings for phrases
or concepts characteristic of clandestine activity and for
any other clues to prior intelligence training or. experience
which the agent is concealing,

g. The agent should provide dates and reasons
for any arrests, Arrests in denied areas, followed by com-
paratively quick release, may indicate intelligence recruit-
ment,

h, The prospective DA may be asked to signa
statement that if he is held and surfaced by the opposition
or exploited for purposes of propaganda, this fact will
constitute prima facie evidence of coercion. Refusal to
sign may indicate hostile control, although it may also
indicate timidity. If a DA operation is conducted and if
the DA later remains or is detained in a denied area, where
he is used for purposes of Communist propaganda, the
signed statement may be useful,

It is stressed that this list of suggestions is
intended to serve only as a superficial guide to assessment
of bona fides before the operation is launched. Much more
information about the DA as both person and agent is re-
quired for the establishment of bona fides.

-24- nie

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

2 SECRET


13-00000

BB SECRET

- KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

Il, THE DA AS A PERSON

In the opening phase of the DA operation, as was
mentioned earlier, all basic personalia on the agent and
selected associates are assembled, bona fides are deter-
mined or estimated, and a preliminary psychological
assessment is drawn up, Somewhat later, but still early
in the case, a more searching examination should be made
of the agent as a person, This assessment, sent to head-
quarters as a separate dispatch, should include informa-
tion about the following topics.

The following discussion of the psychological charac-
teristics of double agents is based upon research and
analysis of unilateral, peacetime, KUBARK cases, Our
postwar experience strongly suggests that there are vital
differences between peacetime DA's and DA operations and
those directed in war, when patriotism, idealism, and

G subordination of self were more frequently encountered.

A. Willingness to serve as a DA,

The results of case analysis to date amply demonstrate
the importance of establishing whether the agent wants to
be a double or not. Those peacetime DA's who enjoy the
role tend to share, in greater or lesser degree, a number
of distinctive psychological and emotional characteristics.
An understanding of these traits is extremely useful to
the case officer. Unwilling DA!s, serving either service
or both against their own inclinations, are more variegated
but are usually unlike the willing doubles in major respects.
They uspally seek - consciously or not - to end the oper-
ation as quickly as they can without damage to themselves
or those emotionally close to them, Therefore a long-range
plan, of indefinite duration, based upon an unwilling double
agent is very likely to founder because of his persona lty
rather than external, operational factors.

- 25 - eae,

iG : KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

@ame SECRET.


13-00000

Gr SECRET

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

1, In the operations studied to date willing DA's have
outnumbered the unwilling in a ratio of seven to one,

2. Ina majority of the KUBARK DA cases studied to
date the case officers have made little or no attempt to ex-
plain in writing the kinds of persons with whom they were
dealing. It is plain that case officers cannot be expected
to produce professional psychiatric or psychological analyses,
nor are these usually necessary. It is also clear that case
officers invariably form an estimate of the agent's per-
sonality, But if the estimate is dim, unformulated, or
unreported, two drawbacks result, The case officer's
handling of the agent is weakened; and the quality of help
from headquarters, station, or elsewhere also suffers,
Our experience shows that there is a high correlation be-
tween a sound assessment and a sound operation.

B. Emotional stability.

1, More useful than a general conclusion about the
DA's emotional stability is a report of the circumstances
under which he is stable and unstable,

2, Willing DA's show much higher-than-average
emotional] stability in stress situations, which they tend
to dramatize and enjoy. For example, they often show
little or no reluctance to meet the adversary ina denied
area, (They are apt, however, to exaggerate their cool-
ness under fire when reporting on the adversary.) Con-
versely, they are less stable in slack periods than are
most persons, Suffering from boredom rather than tension,
they may relieve the monotony by heavy drinking, sexual
adventurousness, or shady financial deals. Their
dangerous restlessness evaporates, however, when they
are kept busy operationally,

3, Unwilling DA's show the reverse pattern, They
avoid situations of stress and are agitated by them. They

- 26 = ad

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

@@0 SECRET


13-00000

GP SECRET:

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

do their best work under safe and routine conditions. DA's
who are unwilling but valuable require much help and
reassurance from case officers, especially in the form of
detailed security safeguards.

C. Emotional attachments to others.

1, The voluntary double agent often seems incapable
7 of forming lasting, adult, emotional relationships with
\ . others. His attitude toward other people is basically com-
petitive and exploitative. Many willing DA's have been
divorced at least once and have gone through a series of
mistresses. Because most willing doubles are good con-
men and good verbalizers, they are usually adept at creating
an impression of sincere feeling, of courtesy and concern
for others. Sometimes they are good enough actors to con~
vince themselves, temporarily. Most of the time, however,
they are emotionally empty. One consequence is that a
KUBARK case officer handling a willing DA in time of peace
( should be extremely chary about concluding that esteem or
: friendship for the case officer plays a significant role in
the agent's motivation, The DA may feel a close rapport
as a result of the clandestine nature of the association rather
than the personality of the case officer, but even this reaction
.is likely to last about as long as the agent meeting. Another
practical consequence is that the location of members of
the voluntary DA's family is likely to be much less important
as an element of control than it may seem, The agent may
feel close to one or more persons, more commonly a son
or daughter than a wife or parent; but even such bonds are
not typical, The defector or double who left a wife behind
in a denied area and who continues to express concern is
likeler to be reacting as he thinks he is expected to react
than to be expressing sincere and deep feeling.

2. Unwilling DA's are unlikely to be demonstrative,

but they do seek enduring emotional relationships, Their
concern about members of the immediate family is likely

- 27 ase

t KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

Oe SECREE


13-00000 :

$8 SECRET

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

to be genuine. In fact, it may have been this concern
which the adversary exploited in recruiting the agent.
Unwilling DA's tend either to remain aloof or to seek
filial relationships with case officers.

D. Level of intelligence.

1, Both willing and unwilling double agents are
characteristically above average in terms of intelligence,
Willing DA's usually think quickly and show cleverness;
their extent of formal education (well above average) and
their typical vocations suggest some depth of intelligence
(but not feeling) as well, The fact that willing DA's are
almost invariably without funds or property reflects not a
lack of intellectual competence but a tendency to trust to
their wits, not to their bank accounts.

2. Linked with high native intelligence is the voluntary
DA's skill as a verbalizer. Typical overt occupations in
this group are those of interpreter/translator; editor,
journalist, writer, or speaker; bibliographer; teacher; and
salesman. The DA may be at home in two or several
languages. One drawback is that his reports, both verbal
and written, may require careful stripping before the plain
facts can be discerned,

3, The willing DA's combination of intelligence and
unscrupulousness make him as hard to handle as a two-
edged razor blade. One piece of usually applicable advice
can be offered. The case officer should avoid competing
with the DA. Relying on the authority inherent in his posi-
tion, the case officer can best handle a clever, competitive
double through calm firmness, not through evident anger.
Willing DA's are likely to respond well to a stick-and-
carrot or kick-and-kiss technique, ‘Your last repart was
excellent, but it was not as good as.the work I expect from
a man of your abilities,"

Ne

~ 28 - momneiiiiie.

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

@@ SECRET


13-00000 |

‘SECRET.

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

E, Gullibility - scepticism,

1, Willing DA's are usually sceptical about the motives
and abilities of others but unsceptical about themselves,
They distrust others, including those with whom they are
on terms of intimacy. They are frequently cynical, They
tend to underrate the adversary ~ and presumably KUBARK -
and to overrate themselves,

2. Unwilling doubles are also sceptical, though less
so than the hardbitten, willing types, and they are as
sceptical about themselves as about others.

F. Trustworthiness.

1, Willing DA's can be trusted to follow instructions
that coincide, in their view, with their own interests, They
become unreliable if the case officer's orders conflict with
their wishes, Confronted with indications or evidence of

( the agent's untrustworthiness, the KUBARK case officer
should consider whether the unreliability is the result of
the agent's loyalty to the adversary or of his own ego-
centricism. The former cause ends the case or puts it on
a totally different footing. The latter is merely one of the
facts of DA life, to be expected and countered by inde-
pendent checks and sound handling.

2. The scanty evidence available on the trustworthi-
ness of unwilling doubles suggests that on a day-by-day basis
they are more reliable than their opposite numbers. If they -
disagree with the case officer's instructions, as they are
particularly likely to do if an element of personal risk is
involyed, they will usually express their concern, But if
they accept an order, they will normally try faithfully to
carry it out. Ona long-range basis, however, unwilling
DA's cannot be considered reliable, because the indefinite
continuation of the operation is directly contrary to their
wishes. They are prone to make ‘deliberate or unconscious
slips which will end the operation without bringing retribu-
upon them,

- 29 - Sis

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

ap. SECRET


13-00000

> SECRET

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

3. Part I, paragraph D, listed the four key questions
used in deciding whether to accept a DA opportunity. One
of the questions is whether the opposition trusts the DA,

In the continuous task of agent assessment, the KUBARK
case officer, therefore, should mirror-read, Is adversary
confidence in the DA diminishing, increasing, or stable?

If it is: static or weakening, what can be done to bolster it?

G. Ambition.

1, Willing double agents are ambitious in the sense
of seeking immediate material rewards with little effort,
Few are. content to work slowly and consistently toward
long-range goals, Gratification is non-deferable. They
seek the immediate effect or gain, by a display of skill
or cleverness, by demonstrating artistic or intellectual
attainments, or by such displays of generosity as buying
drinks for the house, But they lose interest when the easy
satisfaction has been achieved, The case officer working
with a willing DA on a long-range operation is usually well-
advised to stress immediate objectives - especially those
which permit the agent some ego-gratification - rather than
distant goals, in which the agent may not be interested,

2, Unwilling doubles are likely to be only moderately
ambitious. They are, however, far more content to move
slowly toward long-range goals, Their reluctance to serve
as double agents can sometimes be thawed if successful
DA performance over a lengthy period can be identified
with the attainment of such long-held, personal objectives
as security and status, The length of required service may
be less important to them than the fixing of a definite, agreed.
date for concluding the operation,

H, Clandestinity.

1, In the typical willing DA, clandestinity is doing
what comes naturally. He is usually accustomed to concealing

- 30- mene.

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

(mp SECRET


13-00000

ee SECRET

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

facts from others - his wife, his creditors, the local
authorities. His scepticism about the motives of others,
which reflects his own exploitative motives toward others,
reinforces his secretiveness, He enjoys concealing or
withholding for its own sake, In the early stages of
handling a willing DA the case officer may be delighted
with his innate knack for the clandestine and the nimble-
ness of his wits, But there are two dangers, One is that
the agent is prone to conceal things from his case officer
too, KUBARK's need to know everything about him con-
flicts directly with his desire not to place himself in the
power of another through divulging too much, Persistent
case officer digging into his past, especially if performed
formally in accordance with a PHS outline, may merely
arouse his competitiveness, his desire to outwit. But
encouraging him to reminisce, especially about episodes
that place him in a favorable light and let him brag a little,
is likely to be rewarding. Another danger is that the
willing DA may resist or ignore training in operational
rane security. He is used to depending on his natural talents
to get him out of trouble, But he is intelligent enough to
recognize that the adversary service is professionally
clandestine and that KUBARK security training is not a
denial of his aptitudes but a chance to expand them.

2. The few unwilling DA's studied to date were found
to be less clandestine than the average person, They need
careful, step-by-step training in security. If they are to
face a situation which they consider dangerous or even un-
usual, they want and need a specific prior briefing by the
case officer,

3, Whether the DA is willing or unwilling, the case
officer should determine the kind and amount of security
training needed and should supply it, being careful to tailor
the training to DA purposes and avoiding training the agent
for the adversary's purposes,

- 31+ exanenfien

( KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

‘GP secret


13-00000

G8 SECRET

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

I, Introversion - extroversion.

1, The willing DA is introverted in the sense that he
is much more preoccupied with himself than with the world
around him, But his actions resemble those of the extro-
vert. He is likely to be gregarious and to dislike solitude.
He prefers large social gatherings at which he can make a
bid for attention or admiration, Because the wide array of
contacts is sought for self-gratification, willing DA's are
not likely to form firm friendships, at least not friendships
involving a normal give-and-take, The aim is to exploit or
impress. It has been noted that some willing DA's strike
up conversations with total strangers solely to achieve a
striking effect.

2. The unwilling DA is likely to be introverted, He
is not typically gregarious, and his circle of friends may
be small, To those few friends, aa to his family, he is
likely to be loyal. .

J. Other major traits.

The following additional traits of willing DA's have
appeared with sufficient frequency during the analysis of
past cases to merit their mention: sporadic heavy drinking
(but not alcoholism); failing to react visibly to harsh
reprimands or threats but nursing a consequent grudge in
secret; frequent demands for money (no case was found in
which a willing DA refused payment; almost all of them were
importunate in trying to get more); vanity and a desire for:
prestige; and sexual promiscuity.

K. Summary of analysis of traits.
1, The foregoing profile of willing double agents repre-
sents their psychological patterns as a group; the individual

DA will naturally have his own pattern of divergency from
these norms.

jai ceiaenEse
KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

$80) SECRET


13-00000

@F SECRET

7 KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

2, Effective management of the DA requires an early
determination of how much he wants (or does not want) to
play the part, Because willing and unwilling doubles show
different - and sometimes antithetical - characteristics,
the determination of willingness will help the case officer
to fit his treatment of the agent to the agent's personality.

3. The psychological profile of willing DA's as a
class or group is that of the con-man (or, in the psychiatrist's
terms, of the sociopath), The incidence of con-men is high
among willing double agents in time of peace, just as the
incidence of persons in rebellion against any form of
authority is high among defectors. This fact is cause for
caution but not for apprehension, The case officer who
recognizes the dangers to himself and his service which
are likely to result from the very nature of the willing
double is better able to control them. And he is likely to
find that the agent's stability under stress, intelligence,
scepticism, and natural clandestinity are valuable assets

( > when channeled against the opponent.

- 33 - —eninitass,

( KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

9: SECRET


13-00000

9} SECRET

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

IV. THE DA AS AN AGENT

A, Prior Intelligence Associations.

As was stated in Part Il, paragraph E 3, it is necessary
for planning purposes to obtain all the facts about all the
agent's intelligence experience before he became a double,
The extent of that experience is likely to be one of the basic
differences between the DA and the non-Clagent, If the
double bas not had prior contact with more than one service,
the operation itself will give him some insight into a second
service and thus permit him to compare and learn, The
result of this extent and breadth of experience (and in some
cases. of considerable agent training) is that DA's are likely
to be sophisticated in clandestine matters. As a result
the margin of superiority ususally enjoyed by the KUBARK
case officer, who ordinarily has had much more training
and experience than his agent, may diminish, vanish, or
even be reversed, For this reason KUBARK case officers
who have had little or no earlier experience in directing
DA's should not be hesitant about seeking help from others
at the base, from the station, and from headquarters,

B. Continuing Investigation.

As was noted earlier, background checks and the in-
spection of all overt records should precede the decision
to accept the case and the formulation of the operational
plan, During the operation these measures should be con-
tinued, to the extent consonant with security. (Continuing
checks do pose a graver security problern in some DA
cases than in many other types of operations; at times the
task is impossible or the risk is unacceptable. But if the
DA lives outside a denied area, safe ways to continue inde-
pendent probing can usually be found,) Apart from the
danger of concluding that all the facts are in, that the

é -34- saunas

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

Wa SECRET


13-00000

sae? SECRET

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

record is complete, continued probing is required for
the duration of the operation,

Cc, Training.
1, Adversary Training.

Most of the agent training given by hostile services
concerns tradecraft, and the emphasis is on communications,

2. KUBARK Training.

- 35 - ane.

RE See

( KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

Wat SECRET


13-00000

@@ SECRET

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

c, If the agent has weaknesses as a double,
corrective training will be far more effective than merely
haranguing him,

D, Testing.

1, KUBARK Testing.

- 36 - cn]

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

a SECRET


13-00000 _

GP SECRET

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

-37- aeeenaai

ia KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

BB SECRET


13-00000

TOP SECRET

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

- 38 =

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

TOP SECRET



13-00000

‘WBF SECRET

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

d. Most of these methods entail a significant ex-
penditure of time and effort, This fact should be weighed
at the outset, before KUBARK is committed to the oper-
ation, and should also be reflected in the planning of the
operation. It is manifestly insecure to conduct a double
agent operation as a series of debriefings, in which the
case officer merely records the unchecked assertions of
the DA.

e. Analysis of substance is useful as a testing
mechanism, but only if the adversary has been identified
correctly, If, for example, a double agent who is a citizen
of a satellite state provides useful and valid information
about one of the intelligence or security services of that
state - counterintelligence of such caliber that it seems
obvious that the satellite service would not willingly per-
mit its release - KUBARK may easily misread the DA's
loyalties and assume that he is "ours" when in fact he is
providing the information on orders of the KGB or GRU,
probably without the knowledge of the satellite service.

f, The four key tests were described above (see
ILD) as an aid to deciding whether or not to accept an
opportunity for a double agent operation, The case officer
should ask the same four questions periodically during the
later phases of the operation because they constitute a
sound framework for testing.

2, Adversary Testing.

739- tai

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

‘Bae SECRET


13-00000

98 SECRET

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

b. Hostile services may test the agent and oper-
ation by testing the communications channel, See pp, 61-64,

| - 40 - sae

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

SR. SECRET


13-00000

We SECRET

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

E, Control

1, KUBARK Control,

~ 41 aaa

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

‘GF SECRET



13-00000

2 SECRET

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

~ 42 -

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

i SECRET


13-00000

© SECRET

r KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

2. Adversary Control,

a. A major weakness of the Communist intelli-
gence and security service is an inadequate understanding
of the principle that control rests upon an understanding
of the motives of individual agents. Consequently there
is an adversary tendency to pay scant heed to the agent as
a person and to consider him, instead, as an instrument.

C In half the KUBARK DA cases studied to date, for example,

z the DA has alleged that his work for the adversary was

totally or partially motivated by duress and fear, No other
element of motivation for serving the opposition is cited by
DA's as frequently, Even after allowance is made for
agent exaggeration, it remains evident that adversary
attempts. to achieve control through duress may of them-
selves cause the agent to approach a Western service.
Continuation of hostile pressure on the agent is likely to
create in him attitudes which the KUBARK case officer
can exploit to our advantage.

b. A related weakness in adversary control stems
from overcentralization, The headquarters of a typical
Communist service exerts tight control upon its field repre-
sentatives, who often relay requirements to agents without
tempering them to achieve some correlation between head-
quarters' needs and the agent's access and capabilities.

-43- seca

(i KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

Wee SECRET:


13-00000

We SECRET

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

Agents who have protested that assigned tasks were im-
possible have sometimes been told, in effect, that the
case officer recognizes the lack of realism but is help-
less. Such an explanation, and the attitude underlying it,
militate against effective control,

c. Onthe other hand, the adversary services,
and especially the KGB, have at times shown skill in the
manipulation of political motivation for purposes of control,

F, Agent Motivation,

1, Analysis of double agent operations has indicated
that there is somewhat more uniformity in the motives of
double agents than case officers have recognized, Clearly,
the reasons why the agent works for KUBARK may not be
wholly identical with his reasons for serving the adversary.
For example, an agent recruited under duress by a Com-
munist service may obey its orders chiefly through fear
and may serve as a double chiefly because of hostility toward
the adversary. But if he is a fearful person, predisposed
to yield quickly under pressure, then fear of detection and
retribution in the Free World is also likely to play a part
in his performance for us.

2. According to. the statements of DA's and case
officers, the following are the principal motives of DA's
for serving KUBARK (the percentages state the number
of agents reportedly thus motivated in comparison with
the total number studied): monetary (77%), political (55%),
pleasure in the clandestine (50%), personal (50%), self-
protection (41%), ideological (23%), fear (23%), and
patriotism (9%), The statements of the same agents and
their case officers about their motives for serving the
opposition show a very different picture: fear (50%),
monetary (50%), pleasure in the clandestine (27%), self-
protection (27%), and personal (14%). No political, ideo-
logical, or patriotic motives for serving a Communist
service were reported in any of the DA cases studied,

ve Aieeonten._

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

9 SECRET


13-00000

BR SECRET

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

3, An element of rationalization seems to be reflected
in these findings. For example, an agent who finds very
real pleasure in clandestinity per se is likely to be thus
motivated in working for both sides, not just one. Yet
nearly twice as many agents were reported to serve KUBARK
for this reason as were listed under the same heading for
service to the adversary, It seems likely that KUBARK
case officers may consider it somewhat reassuring if an
agent works for us because he likes the game but may find
it threatening if he conducts espionage on behalf of a hostile
service for the same reason,

4, During analysis it was also noted that agents and
case officers had advanced nearly twice as many explana-
tions for KUBARK service as for adversary service. In
a significant number of operations KUBARK case officers
had made no report at all on the agent's reasons for working
for the opposition,

5. Some precepts can be based on these findings:

a, KUBARK should always examine and report a
double agent's motives for engaging in both halves of his
clandestine work.

b. Most peacetime DA's serve both sides for much
the same basic reasons,

c. The examination of motivation should be as
probing as the case officer can make it, The use of a label,
such as "anti-Communist", is not a substitute for a
searching examination of what makes the agent tick.

d, The case officer who is working with a willing
DA should be slow to conclude that the agent's esteem for
the case officer plays an important motivational role.
Genuine esteem for others is not common among willing
DA's, although many are adept at creating an impression
of esteem,

tigsit a,

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

WF SECRET


13-00000

@ SECRET

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

6. There has been relatively little KUBARK reporting
on unconscious motives, Although lengthy and theoretical
speculation on this subject may be a waste of time, the case
officer's continuing assessment of the DA as a person does
permit him to compare the agent's own statements about
his motives with his actions, which are sometimes clues
to deeper drives, of which the agent may be unaware or
only dimly aware,

7. If KUBARK has accepted jurisdiction of an oper-
ation from a transferring service, that service's recorded
or verbal estimate of motivation should be obtained in as
much depth as possible and should be weighed carefully.
Failing to benefit from earlier insights often leads to a
repetition of errors in handling and control that were made
by the transferring service,

8. The case officer should determine whether any of
the agent's basic motives are incompatible with KUBARK's
goals in the operation, He should also consider whether
the DA is looking to KUBARK for satisfaction of a desire
which KUBARK cannot or will not satisfy,

- 46 - eepuamenee

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

B® SECRET


13-00000

WRP SECRET
a KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY
Vv. THE DA OPERATION: SPECIFICS
A. Access.
-47- REE,

Ce KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

W SECRET


13-00000

@@ SECRET

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

eeagsn

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

MUP SECRET


13-00000

3) SECRET

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

- 49 -

ee KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

We? SECRET


13-00000 : :

@@e SECRET

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

2. To Adversary Targets.

a. Inthe DA cases analyzed to date each agent has
had believable access, from the viewpoint of the adversary,
to the opposition's targets, This fact, however, seems to
reflect less a-careful program of recruitment than the wide
range of hostile goals listed in Part Il, above.

b. The list makes it clear that many of these goals
are counter-intelligence objectives; penetration of Free
World intelligence and security services, obtaining infor-
mation on AIS sponsorship and use of various groups (RFE,
VOA, refugee organizations, etc.), securing information
on the emigration abroad, checking on the fate and location
of intelligence defectors from the adversary service, and
the like. The DA's contact with KUBARK obviously means
that he has some access to one or more of these CI targets.
Sometimes KUBARK case officers have tended to dismiss
this fact lightly by remarking, "All he knows is my face and
a cover name," As the later discussion of KUBARK security
in DA cases makes clear, this observation simply does not
hold for the great majority of these operations. Because
KUBARK normally cannot control the kind and amount of
intelligence and counterintelligence passed to the hostile
service by the double agent, his access to a principal target
of adversary CI makes it mandatory that KUBARK handle
the operation, to the extent practicable, as though the DA

- 50 - ‘Raper

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

a SECRET


13-00000
“62 SECRET

mo KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

would tell the opposition everything he learns. Hence the

c. Adversary services test the agent's access to
their targets in a number of ways. The agent is usually
asked to explain in detail how he acquired each significant
item of information and to identify all sub-sources, witting
or not, as fully as possible. In the early phase of the oper-
ation he may be given targets about which the opposition
already knows a good deal, so that substance can be tested
analytically, Other adversary agents may be assigned to
report on him, and various other techniques of surveillance
may be employed, Such adversary testing underscores the
superiority of true access, which permits the agent to
function normally, over hand-outs.

B. Appetite.

1, As was stated earlier, it is useful to determine
the opposition's appetite, as well as goals, as soon as
available information permits, Examination of the record
has shown that the chances of obtaining a net profit from
a DA operation are considerably enhanced if the case officer
continuously assesses the‘nature and intensity of the
adversary's appetite. If he has a strong desire to get what
the agent's access promises to make available, the adversary
may be inclined toward greater patience with error or delay,
is likelier to plan the operation as long-range, and is more
prone to expose additional assets, for such purposes as
training. Here is another exploitable weakness of an over-
centralized intelligence service, An inferior report ona
subject of currently intense interest to the headquarters
may enhance the agent's standing more than a sound report
on a matter given a low headquarters priority,

-51- ees.

( KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

WP SECRET


13-00000

GB SECRET

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

2. One indicator of hostile appetite is the sudden
levying of a requirement on a target to which the agent
has no real access, Agents who have protested such
assignments have sometimes been told frankly that head-
quarters pressure had obliged the field unit to give the
task to several agents without regard for access, If the
new target is significant, and especially if widespread
allocation of the target is confirmed by other DA's or
other means, it is advisable to notify headquarters
expeditiously,

3. As was said earlier, a notional access may awaken

. an ungovernable appetite. The same is true for real access,

and for this reason the KUBARK case officer should attempt
to foresee those topics or areas too sensitive for release to
the opposition and block off the agent's access to them with-
out his knowledge, Otherwise, as has happened, the case
officer reviewing for release a sensitive report already
prepared by the DA may find himself constrained to forbid
its transmission. As a rule, he cannot be sure that the
double agent will respect the prohibition. And there is the
added danger that the adversary service will gain new in-
sights upon learning which items were cleared for passage
and which were blocked. Keeping abreast of shifts in
hostile appetite will help the case officer to anticipate and
avoid these risks.

C. Production,

1, For KUBARK,

- 52 = Sean

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

@@ SECRET



13-00000

Gh SECRET
C KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY
a
~ 53 = See
C : KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

WH SECRET


13-00000

MR SECRET

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

A case officer review of this list before the meeting
or its use as a check-list during the meeting may prove
helpful, Analysis of production in former DA operations
has shown that the number of the above topics on which each
double agent reported ranged from 5 to 18, with an average
of 10. Although this range is obviously dependent upon the

_ DA's access and the life-span of the operation, it also

depends upon the thoroughness of the case officer. Failure
to debrief a knowledgeable DA on predecessor services or

any other item listed above nullifies a principal purpose of
the operation,

2. For the adversary.

a. As noted above, KUBARK must keep careful
records of all classified information released to the DA,
In addition, it is suggested that the case officer keep a log
on all of the DA's reports to the adversary, whether classi-
fied information is included or not. If the DA reports to
the adversary in writing, the case officer should take at

- 4 Sepsis

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

@@eR SECRET


13-00000 .

@m SECRET

lan KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

least two copies of each report before approving it for
release, one to be forwarded to headquarters and the other
to be retained. If the DA reports verbally, the KUBARK
case officer may require him to submit a written version;
or the case officer may elect to write a full account, What-
ever methods are used, it is important to keep close tabs
on the agent's reporting to the adversary. Such a record
may make it easier to detect a DA's transmittal of un-
authorized information, It will certainly facilitate a com-
parison of hostile requirements and the DA's production

for the adversary and thus make it easier for the case
officer to put himself in.the place of his opposite number --
that is, to mirror-read the operation, And finally, in the
broadest sense, KUBARK's effective conduct of counter-
intelligence (including deception) requires that headquarters
maintain a current and complete record of all information
known to have reached adversary hands,

b, Despite the general principle that it is almost
always better to require that the DA obtain on his own the
information which he reports to the hostile service, some
cases necessitate the release of build-up material, The
twin problems of acquiring such material and obtaining
clearances for its use are easier to solve if the operation
has been developed according to a plan carefully designed
to satisfy specific counterintelligence requirements, The
ODYOKE military services, for example, will consent to
release much more readily if the potential gain to national
security is demonstrable,

D. Mirror-Reading.
i 1, Throughout the life of the operation the case officer

should consider each development not only from his own
point of view but also from that of his adversary. Only in

- 55 - eee

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

9g) SECRET


13-00000

Wee SECRET

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

this way can he estimate whether the operation looks
normal to the opposition, whether the agent is making
satisfactory progress, and what action the hostile service
is likely to undertake at critical junctures.

2. Mirror-reading is not merely a process of putting
oneself in the other man's place, It is a process of being
the antagonist, as nearly as is possible, and then viewing
the operation, Therefore the case officer needs to know
as much as he can about the antagonist personally, the
section and base in which he works, his headquarters --
in fact, his entire service, He also needs to know some-
thing of the typical customs, thoughts, and feelings of the
country which the hostile service represents. Otherwise
the case officer will be a mentally transplanted American,
his mirror-reading out of focus and his conclusions dis-
torted, The same distortion results from identifying the
adversary service incorrectly,

3, For the kind of information that allows the case
officer to mirror-read accurately he is partly dependent
on the agent. He needs to draw from the agent all the
details and nuances of the DA's meetings with the adver-
sary, so that he can sense the character of the opposing
case officer and the flavor of his relationship with the agent.
In doing so, the KUBARK case officer must rectify dis-
tortions produced by the agent's personality. The obser-
vation that the hostile case officer is brutal and overbearing,
for example, must be read one way if made by a normally
confident man, another way if expressed by a fearful person.

4, A knowledge of the service as a whole and of its
headquarters is particularly important for sound handling
of DA operations run against Communist services because
of their characteristic centralization, The operation will
be misread if the KUBARK case officer attributes to his
opposite number decisions actually made at a headquarters
far away.

- 56 - Saige.
:
KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

WHR SECRET


13-00000 ,

sO GBP SECRET

7 KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

E, KUBARK Security.

-57- Fa

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

RP SECRET


13-00000

| $B SECRET

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

4, As was noted in Part I, cover must be established
for KUBARK, the case officer, the DA, and agent meetings.

~ 58 - ‘eases

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

WP SECRET


13-00000
‘Wap SECRET:

- KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

c. The double agent's cover for clandestine work

for the adversary is a problem for the adversary, not
KUBARK, to resolve, But the KUBARK case officer must
consider the agent's cover as a double, In practise DA
cover is nearly identical with cover for DA meetings. As
a rule such cover does not consist of a valid reason for
overt association, as it may in a positive operation, because
it is necessary to conceal from the opposing service all
indications of AIS association (except under such specialized
circumstances as deception operations), The problem is
more one of concealment than of cover, Selection of a
proper meeting site or sites and training the DA in sound
security practises are the best defenses. Once the adver-
sary service learns that the DA is in touch with the AIS or

( even with an American, the operation may become worse

. than valueless,

5. Like other agents, DA's -- and especially willing
doubles -~- sometimes tell wives, mistresses, and others
about their clandestine activities for either side or both,
despite all admonitions to the contrary. DA's have been

7 knwon to exaggerate their roles, in order to impress, and

i to confide that they are chiefs of services, undercover
staff members, and the like, Discovering such indiscre-
tions, some KUBARK case officers have merely repri-
manded the agent and continued the operation as before,
leaving the confidant half-in and half-out of the case.

- 59 - Ei
( KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

aa SECRET


13-00000

‘eRe SECRET

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

6. A security check-list is included in Part VII of

~ this guide.

F, Adversary Security,

1, As was mentioned earlier, the fundamental principle
regarding adversary security is that the KUBARK case
officer should not interfere, Adversary services have been
guilty of some elementary breaches: meeting agents in
their homes, exposing the clandestine status of agents to
families and friends, failing to provide or even consider
agent cover for trips, using ill-chosen or untrained couriers,
requiring travel too frequently, and other sins, Fearing
that such practises will expose the operation to local
security forces, the KUBARK case officer may be tempted
to tighten up his opponent's operation, But intervention
by KUBARK is likely not to save the operation but to blow
it, to local security, the adversary, or both. Our restraint
may permit flaps or near-flaps, from the adversary's view-
point; but experience has shown that unless a flap indicates
that his agent has been doubled, the adversary is: not
likely to terminate. On the other hand, flaps do tend to
cause the opposing service to view the agent and oper-
ation with increased scepticism and may produce periods
of inactivity which are profitless for KUBARK. If the
agent is somewhat sophisticated and aggressive, and if
his relationship with the hostile case officer permits, he
may be told to complain about sloppy handling, In any
event, the underlying principle remains the same: the
adversary's problems are his, not ours, If rapport is
good, the DA tends to present his KUBARK case officer
with difficulties created for the agent by the opposing
service, And naturally, the case officer must not refer

- 60 - SOETS,

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

‘ep. SECRET


13-00000 ,

“GES SECRET

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

the double agent to the adversary so coldly that the DA
feels rebuffed, Sympathy and perhaps non-discernible
material assistance are in order, along with an explan-
ation of why our direct intervention would imperil the
agent,

G. Communications,

1, Adversary Communications,

-61- etieete.

( KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

WAP SECRET


13-00000

MP SECRET

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

- 62 - ame.

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

We SECRET


13-00000

Wee SECRET

- KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

2, KUBARK Communications,
a, Inthe unilateral, post-war, KUBARK DA cases

studied to date, direct meetings between case officer and
agent have been by far the commonest method of communication,

- 63 - ean

( KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

@ SECRET


13-00000

MIP SECRET

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

Although personal contact is slightly more risky than
other methods because it increases the damage that can
be done by a DA who is giving the edge to the opposition,
its advantages are notable, The possibilities for adver-
sary counterintelligence manipulation of the operation

are increased if KUBARK maintains communication solely
by an impersonal means. KUBARK's opportunities for ,
testing the case are largely restricted to testing its —
product, For this reason it is especially important in
W/T, S/W, and similar operations to remember that more
than one adversary service may be involved or that the
opposition may not’be the service that the circumstances
seem to indicate, Even if the adversary is identified
accurately, KUBARK's inability to assess psychologically,
employ LCFLUTTER, interrogate, or otherwise probe
directly greatly increases the risk of being deceived,

b. Personal meetings are sometimes supplemented
by additional forms of communication, chiefly the tele-
phone, open code mail, and S/W. A fast emergency
channel is essential in most DA operations because the
initiative rests with the adversary, who may require the
agent to act quickly, If forced to act on his own, because
he cannot reach the KUBARK case officer, the DA may
wreck the operation,

c. Details of KUBARK's communication channels
with the DA, like other details of our modus operandi,
should be included in the reporting to headquarters. A
primary reason is that such reporting enables headquarters
to study the effectiveness of our methods and to make the
results of such study available to others who can use them.

H. Finances.

1, The key principle in paying DA's is that the
rhoney should be used by the case officer as one of his

- 64 - Sd

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

Wm SECRET


13-00000

QM SECRET
KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY
instruments of manipulation and control,
- 65 - aechuniscoome,

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

Mt SECRET



13-00000

608 SECRET

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

4, Hostile services have more frequently made pay-
ments to relatives on behalf of the agent than has KUBARK.
‘ The operational value of such payments depends chiefly on
how the DA feels about the recipient, He may be grateful,

~ 66 - ie

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

a SECRET


13-00000

me SECRET

- KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

or he may be uninterested in the recipient's welfare and
inclined to view such payments as involuntary deductions
from his own salary.

5. If the opposition directs the DA to take a trip or
otherwise incur expenses for which he lacks funds, the
KUBARK case officer should be hesitant about supplying
the money. The adversary may be testing. Usually the
DA should respond by explaining his problem to the
opposing service.

I, Reporting.

- 67 - eno:

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

> SECRET


13-00000

§@P SECRET

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

- 68 ~

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

‘BSP SECRET


13-00000

Or SECRET

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

- 69- eRe

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

Sa SECRET


13-00000

#8} SECRET :

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

VI. CASE OFFICER'S CHECK LIST

The questions that follow are intended as a check list
to be used by KUBARK case officers to ensure that none
of the essentials of a double agent operation have been
overlooked,

- 70 - a:

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

ae) SECRET


13-00000

8B SECRET

a KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

-71- ie.

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

Wa SECRET


13-00000

(02% SECRET

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

-72-

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

“WP. SECRET


13-00000 .

WP SECRET

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

-~73- ~iReRee

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

RP SECRET


13-00000

> SECRET

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

= 4<

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

@G SECRET



13-00000 .

SP SECRET.

(ae KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

- 75 ~ ‘cacti.

C2 KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

SG SECRET


13-00000

a SECRET

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

-~ 76 -
KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

‘2 SECRET


13-00000

> SECRET

4 KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

~~ qeee

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

iP SECRET


13-00000

2 SECRET

KUBARK INTERNAL USE. ONLY

- 78 - ee

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

Wimp SECRET


13-00000

> SECRET

- KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

va

-79- aie

an KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

@@R SECRET


13-00000

9 SECRET

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

- 80 -

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

@® SECRET


13-00000

8 SECRET

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

- 8l- ea.

{ KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

@2) SECRET


13-00000
BB SECRET

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

~ 82 - ns
KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

0 SECRET


13-00000
ann
@me SECRET

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

INDEX
Page
ACCEBE cececvecceccccccrcccesccesesscsccsces 19-20, 39-40,
47-51
Alcoholism ....ccececiccccccecccerscvsascees 32

Ambition . 30

Analysis of agent production by hostile service . 40
Analysis of agent production by KUBARK .....+. 39, 47-48

Appetite, hostile .. 13, 19-20,

51-52

Ga Arrests .... ceeceseceeee 24

Assessment, psychological .......sseeseceees 25-34, 68,
14

Attachments to other persons, emotional ..... 27-28
Attitude of DA toward case officer ...ecesseees 27

Audiosurveillance ... oe 63

Background of DA .ececeeecscccsccccccesecses T1722
Bona fides, preliminary testing of .....esseee0s 23-24
Build-up material ....ceecceccccccesceseceeee 40, 48, 55

Cables ....+0. 68

ene 83 - ceili

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

‘Wamp SECRET


13-00000

i SECRET

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY
Page

Case load ...cecccceccecccccrecccencecssesess Zl, 39
Case officer's check list ...cceeeeeseucecseces 70-82
Centralization in adversary serviceS ..seseseee 43-44

30-31

Clandestinity in DA's ...

Communications, KUBARK ....ceceseeeeercese 63-64
Communications, opposition ......esseeeeeeees l-12, 61-63

Contact reporting . rrrrereeerry) «- 67, 68

Continuous investigation of DA's ...eeicceecees 34-35

Control, by adversary .ssessceccsscesecceeves 19, 41,
43-44

Control, by KUBARK ...ecesecceccceccccaecce 19, 41-43,
65, 75-76

Cover ceccccccecscccccccccccccsccecscserses 58-59, 66,

78
D and D cases ..vesesccrceccecersccccssssses 4
Dead Grops ..esscceanccrorcccccsessccccerees 63

weveceee 7

Deception ....6

Disposal ..cecsecccscacccceccccccccecceceess 21-22

Document analysis ...ececececscsccsccesssese 14, 23

- 4 sip.

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

WHR SECRET


13-00000

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

Double agent, definition of ...ccccscseceees

DUTESS ees eccccceccccscesccccanccsccecevcces

Exposure of KUBARK personnel and assets
to DA's .eeee

Extroversion esoescccccreccesessssscasrescces

Fabricators .cccccsseccsesencssovcscceseesees

Finances sesesecsecscccoene

Four key tests csssccssocsscnceonee

Goals in DA operations, KUBARK and
adversary ..e.

Gullibility-scepticism ..

Identity of DA, establishment of ..ccceceeseceee
Intelligence background of DA's .esescscesseees

Intelligence of DA'S ..cecccccecce

Interference .esseecesscoensscecnccccssecccces
Introversion cessececcscccsscccccccccccesscoes

Joint DA operations ..ceccscccccssesevecccescs

@@@ SECRET

32
2

64-67,
80-81

U-12, 39
6-10, 13,
50

29

13-14
15-17, 34
28

50, 58, 60
32

1T, 22,
12-74

- 85 SaaRa

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

‘QP SECRET


13-00000

; i SECRET

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

Page
Knowledge by outsiders ....ccesescceccrecces 14-15, 59-60,
67
LCOFLUTTER.... 23, 36-37,
‘ 61, 74
Mirror-reading ..... 30, 55-56
Money cecsccccccccvccccascccccessesssenees see Finances

Monitoring of adversary commo channels,..., 42, 61
Motivation, conscious and unconscious......0. 44-46
Motivation for serving KUBARK .....eeeeeces © 44-46
Motivation for serving the opposition ......... 44-45
Multiple agents ...cccscccapencccscccccccsecs 2

Objectives of adversary in DA operations .. see Goals

Objectives of KUBARK in DA operations ....... see Goals
Origins of DA operations, significance of ...... 3-6
Overt information on DA's, sources of ..eseee. 13-14
OWVL cceccnsccccccscscccnceccccccccscsesas 12, 61
| Parallel DA operations ..aceccccsecsnccencene 7

Pay seccece see Finances

Peddlers ..

- 86 - ‘pilin,

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

gm SECRET


13-00000

QP SECRET

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

Penetration agents ...cscocceccccececscscecess

Planning the DA operation ....ssesesees

Positive production from DA operations ...esees
Prior intelligence ties of DA's ......cceccceees

Prior record of Ca5C ..seevcceccesceescssccece

Production for adversary .... eee eee eeenece
Production for KUBARK .ecesescescccscceceees
Prosecution of DA'S ..eccocncccrevccccscscoces

Provocation ....seesesceeres

Psychological assessment ..ccceeseccccsecescs

Recruitment by adversary .ccecssencrcencccece

Recruitment by KUBARK of adversary staff
personnel...

Reporting the DA operation ...cscccscsccocceece

Reporting of DA's on hostile services ....

Scepticism in willing DA'S ..ccecseseccscvonve

Security of the DA ..scoccccrecscacccccceeoncs

4-5

see Assessment,
psychological

15-17

6

67-69, 81
52-54

29

59

- 87 - Sinise

sb ence

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

QA SECRET


13-00000

8 SECRET

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

Security of KUBARK in DA operations .....+++06

Security of opposition in DA operations .....+e06
Selection of DA'S .o.cccccsceccecsccsscssccecs
Side-cOMMO .esecssceccsccccccccscerercsoes
Spoon-feeding DA'S ...ccccccecrccccccsenceses

Stability occ sce tease

Stayability ..cccscenseccsccsenccrssscecncsces
Sub-sources, identification to adversary ....+06

Support of DA operations ..

Surveillance of DA operations ..sescercccvecece
S/W 5 vcnccccscccnvcccccevcsssececcsssseseee

Talk-inS ..cesececvonscese

Taps, mail and phone ...coccecccscccvcvcecers
Targets cocscrcccccccccencvcssercesccereseee
Terminal report ..c.ccccccccccccssesccensece

Termination ....esee6

Testing by adversary ...e6

Page

57-60,
79-80

60-61

10-1
38, 61 ,
40, 49
26-27

un

39

21

38

61-62

3-4

22, 63

see Access
68

20, 21-22,
49, 81-82

39-40, 62

- 88 - <i.

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

WB SECRET


13-00000

i SECRET:

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

Page

Testing by KUBARK ...ccccccecccccccacececes 10-12, 36-39

Third services ..... ee 72-73

Threats creccesscccccecssccseccesscsnseesecs 32
Tracing .cccccccccccccccccccescccscccssscees 14-15

at eneeee ee 35

Training by adversary ...e.

Training by KUBARK ...escsccceseccccceccece 18, 31,
35-36

Transfer to KUBARK from another service.... 3, 46
Trust of DA by opposition .esccsecoccccceccers 20
O Trustworthiness of DA'S ...eececcccceecescees 29

Types of DA cases, by origin ....... aeeeeses see Origin

Unconscious motives ..ecessocccccceccececces 46
Unwilling DA's ...ccccecesccccsscesecssseces 25-26

eeeeee eee 2

Unwitting DA's .....

U. S, Citizens as DA'S .ceceeseccececcceceeene 12-13
Verbal skills in willing DA's ...cseecescccseee 28

Walk-ins ...ee

deeccoccsececeses Bak

eecoee

Willing DA's .e.eeeee 25-26

-89- Rees,

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

NR. SECRET


@@ SECRET

Withholding ..ccsccccccsccscccccscsecscesesce

WIT coccscccccccccncccnaccseccacscccccseees

30> SECRET

KUBARK. INTERNAL USE ONLY

- 90 -

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

2, 36
8, 12, 37,

61-63, 69,
74


13-00000

‘WB SECRET

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

KUBARK INTERNAL USE ONLY

WR SECRET

