5ex | |no mocking ncquinco

OnLy QuALwtD OSX
{ex JUDGE INDEXING

Zyonr Mexico City
gion

acer

« fonal Monthly Report =~ 1-31 December 1963
Ee FEO

Psion: None. For your information.

resented below is a reporting of the operational and support activities
of Gregory D, PARMUTH for the above mentioned period.

1, General Summary of Activities. a
Activity for the month of December consisted of the following:
wae given to CAMKCHARITY on an audio operation against an LCHARVEST
target; A locked door containing audio equipment was opened by PARMUTH

at an LP monitoring the LCHARVEST apartment; Station production totaled

covering Soviet and Satellite Embassies produced below average production
because of the Christmas season.

2. TDY

of this report for details.
i Mexico City

(continued)

}- Enk:

1, Training Report (KASNICKA) af
2, Sequence Camera reports (3)
3, SWB Report

— Distribution:
14 -KURIOT, w/encls
1 - WH, w/o encls

| installation of the SEQUENCE camera at the LIERODE basehouse; Assistance

2,325 for the month; One agent was trained in SW; and Photographic basehouses |

On 16 December 1963 Peter T, SWINEHART, POB, arrived at Mexico
City to install a SEQUENCE camera at the LIERODE basehouse. See para 5.8+ !

25 REFERENCE TO ] Siaparon SvGOL ANO NUMBER ~~ pare
pen ete |
HMMA-22726 16 Jaruary 1964
= | ge wes tema
Gevtbug ; SECRET so-o-18 gt POI

SD On me we
P xtensi

ne COS to install an ¢

me eriod given bY RESC

vice this request $9)
coved (for study) bY KUS

OS yesiaenTes
on phone at the cc
{GNO tthe SRCHARITY base, *
tisfactorily+ ‘This extension We

training P'
ODA officials who InsP!

able to 8©
replaced one rem
Fe ie eal abe

¢. On 10 December 19 RMU yisement £0

x the

the Recordak to fulfill a

ecember 1963, SWINEHART >

pasehouse to ins

SWINEHART ins
tenance

ning of 17 DI

On the mor
niet at the LIERODE
agger device
e installation and mau

PARMUTH was |
one which |
ected Mexico-

phea 423 frames usin
Chief of Station.



DISPAICH TIMMAT et tee

m 99.

y PARMUTH in the use of SW syste

for the purpose of trainin

3, Training.
jon Lewis F. KASNICKA.

See training report forwarded as Enclosure

4, Operations.

I

None.

5, Station Support.

a. On the morning of 1 December 1963,
in installing audio microphones under the flooring
apartment, (See HMMA~22608, pl are ea iit ea
audio installation to the LP were strung and secured below the flooring which had
ample semi-crawling space between the target area and the LP apartment.
RESCIGNO and PARMUTH entered this crawling space by removing 2 small
section of flooring located inside the LP apartment, There is-also a trap door
leading into the crawl space at the front entrance hall of the building although

the curious would be discouraged to enter this area because of stagnant water
g at all times, cob webs, bugs, etces eter ++

six to ten inches deep on the floor
‘Three audio microphones were installed on this operation.

PARMUTH assisted RESCIGNO
of an LCHARVEST occupied

—
e

ARMUTH again handled

B Awe SEE2

Oe
LIFIRES 4/5 while Marvin A. CABOT was on annual leave.

On 6 December 1963 PARMUTH forwarded to KURIOT/WAVE
rders of envelopes (six month supply per each request)
The envelopes were handcarried by Timothy A+
avoiding a week's delay if the envelopes
The stamps were handcarried

ce
Headquarters two 0
and one request for stamps.
CAPRIOTT to WAVE Headquarters,
Were sent through the pouch from Mexico City,
by another TDYer to the States for mailing to Washington.

| 4. On 6 December 1963 PARMUTH was requested to re-enter the
apartment as reported in para 5.2. of this report-lpay

LP covering the LCHARVEST
to unlock a closed door which gtored the LP equip- ie

g

‘The purpose of this visit was
LCHARVEST activities in that apartment. Although the
‘ed well for several days previously, the

‘afternoon of 6 December. PARMUTH
0130 hours on 7 December and un'ocked the doors It
ted inside the lock was broken. For security
er doors located in the same

ment which monitors
pasehouse keeper had a
lock would not open for
entered the apartment at
was found that the throw bolt local

purposes, two other locks were Fe
voom to check if these locks were in the same bad condition, In each case,

‘when the key was inserted into the lock and turned excessively, the throw bolt
! snapped. A new lock of the same type manufacture was installed on the closet }-—

1 door by the basehouse keeper on 7 December 1963.

key which work
he agent on the

moved from ot

e. On the night of 7 December 1963, PARMUTH was requested by fr
the COS residence. After a short

the COS to install an extension phone at the ©
training period given by RESCIGNO at the [MECHARITY base, PARMUTH was [.

able to service this request satisfactorily.
replaced one removed (for study) by KUSO!

This extension was one which
DA officials who inspected Mexico,

MUTH photographed 423 frames, usin

- ; {, On 10 December 1963 PAR!
the Chief of Station.

the Recordak to fulfill a monthly Staff D requirement for

WINEHART, LIFEUD/2é

g. On the morning of 17 December 1963, $
tall the 35mm SEQUENC

and PARMUTH met at the LIERODE pasehouse to ins
camera and the VLS-2 trigger device. SWINEHART instructed both L~22 and
nstallation and maintenance of the SEQUE!

: PARMUTH very thoroughly on the i

— SRTATION

Usk FEEVOUS EOHON

"35 $80 Berar 1073 SECRET | Bem



HMMA-22726

mere: -The complete system was then dismantled by SWINEHART so that L-22
“ould re-install the system from the beginning. This was done by L-22 and met
with SWINEHART's satisfaction, Although the Consulate door was closed to the |
public for a period of six days for unknown reasons ag of the night
1963, tests were made using the SEQUENCE camera photographing people walking
by the Consulate door, The caméra worked well and produced good printable
negatives, On the morning of 18 December 1963, L-22 contacted PARMUTH and
explained that the Consulate door was now open to the public and receiving
-|visitors as of 1010 that day. PARMUTH and SWINEHART joined L-22 shortly
later at the LIERODE basehouse and found chat the camera system was working
well and pliotographing people entering and leaving this target area. SWINEHART
then processed this film at the Station lab and made sample prints of the day's
take to be presented to the COS and C/PBRUMEN for their approval. Both were
very pleased with the photographic results using this type of camera equipment,
at the LIERODE basehouse. As of this reporting, the SEQUENCE camera is
using approximately 100 feet of Plus X film between 0900 and 1400 hours (office
hours for the Consulate). L-23 uses the present dark room area to photograph
traffic entering and leaving the front gate of the Embassy and is on duty. from
0800 to 1800 hours daily, six days a week. In order for L-22 to process the film
from both of these cameras and make prints daily, it will be necessary to install
another darkroom at the basehouse, L~22 will need a Morse Tank for processing
film, a drying rack, and a small PAKO dryer for finishing prints in order to
satisfy PBRUMEN requirements at the Station, Forwarded as enclosure 2 is
the installation, sad statistical and training report concerning this operation.

h, On the night of 17 December 1963, PARMUTH and SWINEHART
went to the Mexico City Airport to meet a visiting SWB TDYer and assisted him
through customs, Before the plane arrived, PARMUTH and SWINEH,

the opportunity to inspect the|
of the Airport.

i, On the evening of 31 December 1963, PARMUTH was requested by
Michael C, CHOADEN, C/PBRUMEN Operations Officer, to make an emergency
meeting with LIFEUD/22, The purpose of this meeting was to pick up photographs
and logs for 30 and 31 December in connection with a priority PBRUMEN operation.

6. Station Support (SW Activity),

a. On 6 December 1963, a visiting TDYer from Tegucigalpa requested
PARMUTH to train{SWLUCK/I in secret writing. Training was carried out on

7 December 1963 at a local hotel in the city. SW systems 37 and 58 were used in
this operation as per KURIOT instruction in DIR-87130. Forwarded as enclosure

3 is the SW report which is to be sent to SWB. ‘ 2 E

b. On 20 December 1963, PARMUTH was trained in the use of SW
system 99 by a visiting KURIOT technician.

7. Miscellaneous Statistics.

a, Number of operational targets surveys completed during month: 0.

Number of TDY trips completed during the month: 0

Photographic equipment issued for operational use: SEQUENCE

Photographic equipment repaired; 0,

Number of people trained in photographic techniques/equipment: 2,

CRTRCRTON WAGE NO

SECRET Cacalcontoweo 3,

