eae. |
CONTINUED | camanecnemon | aa) an

" OpERATIORAL AND SOURCE COVER SHEET
REPORT NO?

7 a
REPORT MADE BY: Dolores R. CASGAVETI3: c30__ NO, Si TV
a ay > G

~. .
REPORT APPROVED BY: Willond Cc. CURTIY NO. ENCLOSURES:

DATE OF REPORT: 12 December 1960 ! REFERENCES: _ _IDN-5321-"
DISTRIBUTION: :

‘ Neilendquarters . Headquarters File ito.
Bycopyto: = Tm, PAO, MA, SIA, AA, 1813 201-
. 1-1A Field File to.
4) Orally to: apie Pots

-__gwPucK ce
SOURCE CHYBTONYE: : id NO. 1G NO.
dais LIFEAT _____ KRYPTON: 0 YES 1) NO
SOURCE, OPERATIONAL DATA, AND COMMENTS: ;

°

SUDJECT : “Jose Xavier CORTES Hernandez

commits; {= 2 Jand contact 6f.C0S,_was the
i #gouree of field comment How 2.- According td }
ver & priest but had been a seminarian.|
ae thas been conferring with Archbishep FE: ifuel Das Dario
Miranda, Primate of Mexico, regarding CORTES flernandez and possible
agtions against him,

coe



, FIELD INFORMATION REPORT -—

Eyatuaniny oF SOURCE: A Comal rata G Unset mebe, CFoity rlutin,O Woteaunly radia Kot ae (Appiied to
of Gaubital honosty or lopeity, roperdiees of hel eccxpetaaca). f. Relubilty cannot be judred \/Appited to untected or

APPRAISAL OF CONTENT: 1: Connirmad by othar Independent end reliable sources, 2: Probebly ius, 9: Possibly true, 4, Ooubtful. 6 Prabsbly
folsa, Gs Canna be jeden. Boomnentary osed on erga oxumect

" SRORET/“10PaTu1 : :
. : coumrnen commot ; oe |
COUNTRHexico/Cuba ,REPORT NO. 1221-538
SOMIECT Jose Xavier CORTES Nernandez 2 DATE OF REPORT 16 Deceniber 1960"

NO, OF ‘pages i Y
+ : : : REFERENCES 1-531,

oaTe :
Date Of December 1960 ‘i

PLACE & Mexico, Mexico City (8 December 1960) y : 7
DATE ACQ. ‘ 7 :
SQURCE EVALUATIONS ARE DERNITIVE, APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE, NOTE FOREGOING EXMARATION,

SOURCE Person with good connections,in

7 Few ae
£. on 8 Degenber 1960 Joa

who_represents, nameens LX]
pee told Jose Antonio , cuban Ambassador to Mexico, that
information that "the thing they were working on" had gotten underway
‘and had produced a tremendous reaction in Cuba.2 Ite said that a friend, who
is Roman Cagholic but very liberal, had returned from a visit to Cuba, where
he said the Knights of Columbus were pretty well entrenched. For this reason,
CORTES said he felt it would be necessary to "take the bull by the horns” and
begin things or the Knights of G®lumbus vould gain the advantage.

@. PORTUONDO said that the bombing of the church of Father BOZA in Cuba had
definitely been an act of “auto-agression” and was clumsily done. He said a
red flag with hammer and sickle was found in the debris. PORTUGIMO told CORTES
that-Carlos OLIVARES, Under-secretary of Foreign Affairs, had not gaid any-
thing, but, since he, PORTUONDO, was going to Cuba at the ond of Décenber, he
, believed that OLIVARES would wait until his visit. 3 : i

+ 3. CORTES said that he would like to go to Cubs and see for himself how. araana
were egoina®

Field Comments

1. . According to an untested houree in the Roman Catholic Church, CORTES-
’ Hernandez was never & priest. It was previously reported that Atisbos,
Mexico City newspaper, had reported that CORTES @ Catholic priest and’
a member of the Jeouit onder witil 1950 when he the order because of
his "sebellious end enarobie, spirit". +

. 2. It is believed that CORTES $ Hernandoz, who belongs to a schismatic Catholic.
. church, called the Mexican Apostolic Catholic Church, is interested. in
establishing & schiamatic church in Cuba. *,

: \
3- Source Comment. PORTUONDQ's remark about OL{VARES came after he and CORTES
: on discussing Gerhan Lence, Custrista priest who has been stopped by
episcopal sanction from his mintetry ba Oriente province.

a

, SECRET) ora : He
; CONTINUED CONTROL -- |

fe Cyan Broaaay | (3). Appratenl of contests’ >“
MEO

4% &



14-00000 _

Sem! 41, Conttrmed by other were ac a 4 renee ae Age onan’ se ewewwen ee

3

“peonet/' 1OPoTut

‘agPoRT NO. mM-§38
ATE OF REPORT 1G Decenber 1960": , p
NO. OF PAGES 1
u oe ' hated REFERENCES 1-538 a

BATE Of Decenber 1960 : :

PLACE & Mexico, Mexico City, (8 December 1960)
DATE _ACQ.
SOUBCE EVALUATIONS ARE VE. TAL_OF CONTENT 15 TENTATIVE, NOT! FOREGOING EXMANATION.

SOURCE: Person with food conhections,in $e Guban Enbass; anny (3). Appraisal of Gontesti.' p.-

o
1 - 8 Depenber 1960 Jose cones Liarnandg vho_represents hanaelt as
told Jose Antonio PORTUONDO Vaidor, Cuban Ambassador to Oy it
information that "the thing they were working on" had gotten underway
« and had produced a tremendous reactfon in Cuba? ie said that a friend, who
ig Roman Catholic but very liberal, had returned from a visit to Cuba, where
he said the*Knights of Columbus wore pretty well entrdneched. For this reason,
CORTES said he felt it would be necessary to "take the bull by the horns” and
egin things or the Knights of @plumbus vould gain the advantage.

2." PORTUONDO said that the bombing of, the church of Father BOZA in Cuba had
definitely been an act of “auto-agression” and was clumsily done. Ile said a
red flog with hammer and ciskle was found in the debris. PORTUGHDO told CORTES
that. Carlos OLIVARES, Under-secretary of Forelgn Affairs, had not said any-
thing, but, since he, PORTUONDO, vas going to Cuba at the end of Bévember, he
, believed that OLIVARES would wait until his visit. 3 .

3. CORTES caid that ho would like to go to Cuba and see for himsclf how things
wore going.

Field Comments a

1. According to an untested source in the Roman Catholic Church, CORTES.
Hernandez was never & priest. It was previously reported that Atisbos,
Mexico City newspaper, hed reported that CORTES was a Catholic pries'

a member of the Jesuit order yntil 1950 when he loft the order because of
bie "gebellious and anarchic spirit". i

a tt ia believed that CORTES Hornandea, who belongs to a schiamatio Catholic.
ehureh, called the Mexican Apostolic Catholic Church, is interested in
establishing a schismatic church in Cuba. y fe

\

3. Source Comment. * PoRTUONDY's remaxk about OLIVARES camo after he and CORTES
fad been discussing German Lence, Castrista briest vho has been stopped ty
‘episcopal sanction from his mintotry in Oriente province. ‘

ye
SECRET/1OFORY
CONTINUED CONTROL
