# 104-10172-10031

## Page 1

104-10172-10031

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce.

AAC: $44

ROUTING

23

INDEE.

CLA: SAY TO ME NO

* REA TO FILE NO

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

22

тОм.

JMAVAVE

ACTION

WH/C 8

SECRET

FRE NO. CAREY TO DEATEN O

DESITOP O 310 -

470,

:

2

3

INFO

DCI, D/DCI

VR.

FILE,

(X RID COPY

COP, SarA, CAVO 4, CI, CI/PS, IN, RI/AN, WPS Z, WH 13

CA 2

CAPEG CA/PROP, CI/OPS, C/IC 2

FI/D .

JUN 65 "20562

IN 86718

SECRET 0995L

DIR INFO LANT ACT, BARR SOON CITE WAVE /822

INTEL TYPIG 11-7

21-18

SUPDATA:

AUSTIN G. DETLOFF (P) FROM ANCLEVE-15 ON 8 JUNE 65.

WHO CBTAINED INFO FROM RAMON ESCARDA RUSIO AND. FRANCISCO

TAMAYO, BOTH OF WHOM SPOKE WITH ATON CONSTANZO PALAU.

PLS NOTE

2

RELIABILITY ACDITION A-15 DESCRIPTION.

RID INDEX. FILED 0919512

REPORT CLASS CONFIDENTIAL CONTROLLED DISSEM

COUNIRY: CUBA/DOMINICAN REPUSLIC

SUBJ: | RECRUITMENT OF CUBAN EXILES IN MIAMI, FLORIDA, TO ASSIST

GENERAL ANTONIO IMBERTO BARRERAS, HEAD OF THE LOYALIST FORCES IN

MIGROFILMED

JUIT% S 190S

DOC. MICRO. GER

THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC-M DOI: 7 JUNE 1965

PADA: UNITED STATES, MIAMI (8 JUNE 1965) UFG-T25%

SOURCE: A CUBAN REFUGEE WHO HAS MANY CONTACTS AMONG CUBAN EXILE

IN COMMENT:

NO DISSEMINATION OF THE ATTACHED

TO PORTION OF THIS CABLE HAS BEEN

MADE OUTSIDE THE AGINGY PENDING

RELEASE BY THE ACTION UNIT.

RELEASING I WO

DATE DISTRIBUTED

SECRET

ESTINCT

ROUTINE

BASED ON

LAISON:

INCLUDES PROM

DOW NORASINO AND

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

23

E22

-1-28

unbs'"

/ PRIORITY

Copy Na,

G/BR

---

## Page 2

sons if

INDER. ONES ONO

CiASSIPY TO PIE NO

* REF TO FRE NO

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

ROUING

Is t

Minterru

FROM

FILE RID O

PET TO BRANÇN O

DESTROY D

JIG

17

B8

ACTION

INFO

JUM 17 EXUPIRI COPY

VR, FILE, ADOP, CA Z, CAPEG, CA/PROP, C/OPS, CI/IC 2, Fl F/D . F'INT

PAGE 2 IN 86718

ACTIVISTS PREVIOUS REPORTING FROM THE REFUGEE HAS PROVED TO BE FAIRLY

RELIABLE. THIS INFORMATION WAS OBTAINED FROM TVO CUBAN EXILES NO.

BROKE WITH ATON CONSTANZO PALAU.

NY COMMENT:

TDCS

ROUTINE

BASED ON

PRICKUTY

RELEASING IWO:

DATE DISTRIBUTED

LAISON

SECRET

EICLUDES FROM AUTOMATI

BOTNGRADINA AND

"CLASSIFICATION

REPRODUCION.BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS ...OHIBITED.

Copy No

---

