104-10073-10155}

Vv

Ss

St. Petersburg, Pla. ~~"

October 5, 1961

Dear Bush:

Three weeks ago T tinetly left Cuba, fortuante=
ly with no trouble to speck of. I have-been visiting wy
family in St. Pete, after having spent some time in Mia~.
ai getting my bearings among the. "active exiles", and

expect to head Northe in about a week. I plan to spend”
a few days in Washington and then go on: to New York,

I would like very much to kee in touch: with the Cubas
situation and to remain ag active es) possible, within,
the limitations of whatever job I:

Although a lot, of water- gone over the dam
since last we snoke, about which the less said the bet=
ter, I remember your comments about the fdasibility of
en arrangement slong these lines. I would therefore like
to encourage from you any suggestions you may be able
to offer in this resvect. I am naturally very interes
ted in receiving the épportunity of discussing the ai-
tuationend mp possible contribution with qualified per+
sons in Washingfon, What do you think?, So far my only :.,
contacts are Senator Smathers, whom I hope to see here
in St, Pete cn the Oth, and o man named=Raskin who an-
swered a letter I wrote fmnadg Bundy aking for en ar-
pointment. Raskin is on Bundy's staff, sy
Bush, you may be out of touch sith the Cuban
oroblem, but in case you are not and have any ideas
I will appreciate hearing from you. I expect to be here
another week and then drive up in a little VW I bought
in Miami, In washington I will be staging at my cousin’, S
Waris, Teresa de Zelde Meyer, 9710 Persimmon Treem Road,)
éa, Maryland. In eny event I will look forward
to seeing you soon, Bost wish

06,05

