# 104-10172-10097

## Page 1

104-10172-10097

SECRET

WHEN FILLED IN:

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

INSTRUCTIONS

PRIOR TO FILING

1.

F1ll in Sect. 2. on back. Detach back

flap and forward to RID.

2. Destroy front cover sheet, unless it

rocords significant action taken or

comments reguiring preservation.

FROM:

TO: ACTION BRANCH

If file no. and title sbown are not

proper, insert proper file co. below

and forward cucument to RID/AN.

PROPER FILE NO.

RIDIAN

TO: ALL ADDRESSEES

FILL IN SECTION I ON BACK. IF APPROPRLITE

COMWENT$

TO

ISAS ESC

-SAS/REGISTRY

NO.

SAS/OPS/SUPPT

DATE

BE BRIBE A 69

FORWARDED

SMITIALI

25 APR 1963

ED

s0p/63 107

COPY DETACHED 2 4 APR 196a

QuY 2 MAY 18E8

2f Na nee

10

18.

:2.

1J

RECORDS OFFICES STAYE

The follosing as1l02 18

authorizer:

512743:

0?

P. 0. 1245 - 1:11

SES/RUS

= 69-16

ra9+09- 401465919979

15.

16.

17.

RID/FI

PEACE

#EQUE&T

FILE ТЬЕ

191--51853

C

V/BR

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Ont

Do Not Reproduce

---

## Page 2

14-00000

DISPATCH

QLASSIPNCALION

WE SECRET

POSED

PROCESSING

ACTION

PUSHED

Calet, Special Affairs Staff

576210

chlos of Station, JAYE

SUBUECT

Transmittal Of LOPLUTTER Resulta - 'ANDENIMA

ACTION REQUIRED. REFLANCES

ART. BACT

HERSHOELE

#55064

o salien we are

herewith (RYBAT) are the LCILUTTER resulte

(301-351853).

2. Forwarded under separate cover are the identities of

the abore mentioned roport.

KND OF DISPATCH

Attachments:

Report RYBAT

B. Ideatities BYBAT

Diatribution:

• KUSODA /att A h/" B use

7 • SAB Jo atta.

CASSINCATION

SECBET

DATE TYPED

CANTE DESPATCHED

18 Apr. 63 AFR 2 e D03

DESPATCH STREBOR AAD NUMGIER

UPGA - 8493

HEADQUAATERS TRI MUNDLE

201-251853

---

## Page 3

SECRET

RYBAT

* 55064

15 April 1969

Subject: ANDENDI/1

ADENIM 1 was Interviered and tested on 1l April 1083

at a sofe sito .In the Miand ares..

The Intorview wag.i

Inquested by. Norean D. KICOINS and it vas conduoted in the

English language.

KIGGINS sonitored the major part of the

intoruler. ALDINiN/l has a POl and an QA has been reguested.

A major purpose of the intervier vas to try to deterino

Subjestig view of his relationship sith. NUBaRk.

Itself covered foreign intelligenoe conuunise and the

possibility of Subjoet's cousection with any person er group

which he ros deliboratoly concealing fros XUalk.

RESULTS

ASDENIM/1 1s not and has not been lavolved with any.

nOB ODYONE intelligence sorvioe.

He has not ben lavolved

in any concunist cotivitios. He does not have any conneo

tions with any persons or groups which he is deliberately

connealing from KUBAlL.

Subicot mentioned his involvenent

Misia the UNIDAD LEVOLUCIONARIA and the COMARIO L-66 (CI-66) .

BSCKOROUND

Subjeet has beon in touch with KUBARK representatives

s1a00 January 1959.

Current KUBARK effort is direoted

toward attempting to assert a greater degree of control.

over Subjeat.:

The history of Subjeet's association with

KUBARK has largely been a history of his attempt to assort

hio indepondenoe - not onif/kuBArk but also of any 'Cuban

exile group he oould not hiaself control. In the: past.

Subjeot has consietently rofused to acoept an LeFLUTTER.

11 the KUBANK I1l6s aro an cecurate representation of

nuthin/l's motives, they portray a man dedicated to tree

Ing baba - but on hia ova tems.

DETAILS

The exantner begen the interview by soning Subjeot rby

he had so consistently objected to LCLUTTER.

In a rather

ranbling way Subjeot stated that be sar binself as an

"ally" working with ODYOKE to bring about the end of Castro.

No restated any attenpt to put his

in a position where he

would feel that

he was an employee of kUBiR He cop 5112

oldered LIPLUTTER a ByaDo! of the loss of his. Indopendence.

The oraniner thon asked if Subject meant thet he did not

vant to feel hisself contontrol", novertheles

to tho use of tLe vord

SECRET S

SiS.

103

R.6. 116-111

6: *

=7=8579

0*-+

V/RR

---

## Page 4

SECRET

RYBAT•

#55064

15 Ayril 1909

Page 2

About this polat.

are making a bettor living going through the notton..s

for KUBAiK than they ever did before and KURkie oholoe

of Cuban leadore - ANTINE and the mombers of the CONSEIJO.

In foot,

throughout the entire intervier, Subjeet con-

trasted

his suocesoos with the fallures of other KUNARK

dirooted efforts.

• Ilo contrasted the pre-invasion firet

tean case offloors with the post invasion acoond team.

If the oxamines 1s allored to sun up the underlying,

but novor cloarly expressed,

frase of referenoe which

Subfcot sees, It would be

this: Prior to the invasion,

KUlAK workod uith the Cubans in an attenpt to defont

Costro.

Ever sinoo the lavasion, HUllARt has Inoreasingly.

moved in the dirootion of using the Cubans for enda whioh

are often cloudod. In taking the LoFLUTTER Subjeot y

signaled his nooeptance of the new order.

Ho has: apparnntly

dooided that without KUDARK old, he oan do nothing -

although he is atill not sure what can be done vith 1t.

He was williag to fu on reoord by rospording in the affina.

tive to the question

asked on the toat.:

"Do you feel that KUnARk"s handling of the Cuban.

situation has

been inept?"

Sublect would not cooperate with aBald.

he (AMDEN M71) -rooelved

inforation whioh he knew would be

of Interest to KUlAlk, would ho refraln from reporting 1t.

11 he deoided it vas

hase to report.

Ho noted that nost Cubans know of his i

relationship with KUDARK and they would rofrain fron tolling

his anything they did not want to reaoh KulArk.

In addition to questiona rolating to foreign intelligonce

and communisa Subtoot was asked:

Exoepting the Un and CL-60,

are you involved with

any othor politioal or revolutionary group?

Do you have a relationship with any person or group

which you aro doliberately concealing fron KUBAla?

Have you used any KUBARK funds in any unauthorieed

manner?

This question moant had ho used KAlK fuads

for anything forbidden by KUBAlk,

---

## Page 5

a time Chene

SECRET

RYBAT

$ 55064

15 April 1989

Page 3

Have you had

Subjeot anavered in the mgative to all and there vas

no indioation of deoaption.

Tolth D. VINT

EDDORDS CETICER STAMP

Do rollerter notion is

auchsalsas:

03

"cit

1: 10=5-88459.

SECRET

VBR

---

