104-10209-10201

pects etnnnnne enero Paes mapa rere meme

0 +: Director
Federal Burems of Investigation
Attention: Hr. 3. Je Papich

FROM 2 Doputy Director for Flas
SUBJ; Les Harvey Osvald (PAY #105~52555, Dallav 7100-10861)

REF ¢ Feport of PBI special agant, Kouert P. Gonberling,
éated 23 Deaexber 1963,

1. As your Purseu is eware, the Clandeeting Services is developing

: a machine collation program to hanfle inforsation on the Cuban intelligeacs

end sacurity garvices. fs yet, the data base is very narrow, vith the

result thet any search againet the prograa has a very limited chance of

Success. fometheless, a search was made using those itemo of information

which are mow relating to “ue tvo letters froa Havena, ops dated

10 Hovenber 1963 end sddresesd to devald, and the other dated 27 Hovenber

1963 emd eddregeed to tha Attorney General.

2. ‘The assumtions on which the search vere aade vere: that the
writer vas using eleneats of a trus nose (for example, that his true first :
name wea Maris, or Pedm or Charles or Peter); and that the writer vas 1
‘ eommested in sew vay vith Havana ead Mien. ‘he print-out listed 19 news, :
of vhich only tvo ssemed to hol sny interest. A review of the files on ‘
\ these two olisinated oe, leaving a single candidate. ‘

3. It mist ba omphasized that there is no reason to believe that H
his men is in fact the uriter of tha letters except for vbat may in fact t
Frove to be mere coincidences in firot names and in locations; end further
that the essurptions om which those sintlaritios are based ney thenselves
be false. Honetheless, the identity of this single possible candidate is
being furnished your bureau for vhetever use io deesed appropriate.

4, tte Sndividual to roto Marto PALAERO-NERUANDEY, on vhom your
Bureau hos reported under Internel Security - Cuba, asd iteeistration Act
Cuba (Mien Field office File £105-2343, Bureau Pile 4105-26178). A copy

Of CSCI-3/762, 553, 23 Icteder 1960, to the Immigration end Naturalisation

}» is attached.
ee

“aL



5. At the cam time, a routine mes trace has been mm in the
main index on the nase/ario del Rosario HILDA, the neat vith which
that

the 27 Icveuber 1963 letter veo sigadd.” There were oo traces on

' name, but information was svaileble an tro ps:
! sixtlar nsuos. It is not mow whother ei the: he

j vith the writer of the letter, snd it choul4 be noted thet the naw
Mario MOLINA is a relatively amon one. the folloving information is
gubsitted es of possible interest

tH
é

a) dn wnevaluated sourca reported in July 1955 that ae
: Mario MOLTHA, an emloyee of the 1065, Inatitate of Social

: Security in Guatemala, ves Joining the UPI (Union fosular

Hl Tnsurreccial), 6 comamist-criented terrorist orgmization
which waa working for Ue overinrey of the Guatemniea Govern~
i tent ond was actively ponetrating governamt offices and

i bureaus through tho esteblishaat of UPY colis within then.

i Mario MOLIEA vee believed to ba ideutical with a person of

! ‘ths eam naw vho hed received communist propaganda materials
i froa yexico in 1947 ond hed been listed in 149 ag a
| “Commnist."”
i

4

porsoa bearing tho nase Marlo MOLIKA

b) A ayaa, passport
fsy/Liot doparind invenn, Cavey cn 9 Day 130} on'n thartares
' flight for Prague, Csechalovakia. It is not imo whether
: this vidual has returned to Cuba.
i
Attockamst: a/s
| cact~3/7EL, S83
i
i
' Orig & 1 - Addressee .
H 1 - RO/AY
| ile aN
- ¢/cr
A-chisn Qo
1 = CI,
1 = cr/Rea|
Originated ty: CI/RaA| fam (26 wey 1964)
marry

sited

