# 104-10185-10119

## Page 1

104-10185-10119

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

SECRET

NO FOREIGS DISSEY

CousY Cuba

SUBST indico 12610264

REPORT NO.

C501+236/00891-64

DATE DISTR 18 AugiEE 1964

NO, PAGES 8

REFERENCES

DATE CF

:1964

INFO

PLACE &

Tashington,

9964

FIZLD REPORT NO.

.$ I$ WSEVALUATED

INFORMATION SOUNCE GRADINCS ALS DEPINTIVE APPAISAS OF

sourcé a forter Cuban IS officer who served with the Colina?

Incelligence Service until April 1964.

Headorarters Connents

The fo-lowing report is one of a series containing

personality

information provided by the source and

accludes

supplemental infornation fros the records

of this Agency.

It is requested that the addrossees take no action on

say of the

individrals mentiored in the persorality reports

without first checking with this Agency.

RETURN TO CA

Background Use Only

thes

Do Not Mapradune

Andres ARMONA,.

pseudonym "Ernesto," is the officer in

charse of the Haiti Desk in the Seccion Contral (Central

american Section) of the Departarento de Liberaciou

=cional (The Natioral Liberation Department • IN) of the

Direccion General de Inteligencia (General Directorate of

Istelligence - DGId.

Teadquarters Comrents

1. A raport cated 8 august 1961, from a fairly reliable

source, stated thit one Andres ARcONd Ramos had been

a diplonzsic visa by the Costa Rican Ibassy

in Habana.

ARJONA was newiy appointed as secretary

irst-class to the Cuban Embassy in san Jose: ne wis

lso expected to serve as tensorary charge d'affaire:

In the Embassy.

-5

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

3

2

1344440 89r 20

I ARMY

33D

CHICLAYT

INSA

Tamins

10c8

ISUS

Tella

1375"/ 233-

375/R

1/5:7005 :

HELLADR

21223

1!

CI/LEA

3' TE

1S:

PETALS

1A -1600, 21.2280

LSO PROJECT (ANCIUG/

'CSCI -316/00691

¡CODINATINS RELEASE

19K: LD: Suk

3/PV

ARRE: (11 151 121 CT 1 RIDI

141438078

202-355235

---

## Page 2

1d-0000

SECRET

SO FOREICY DISSEN

24

3.

sires at thu Cuban Enbassj in San Jose.

ALLONAS reported nay

• senior oilical who sen: lo corin lica wilh dustructious

all outstant alan fronts.

This trioraacion vei

recoired an a ruport dated 21 August 1961.

This sane source, in a report dated I September 1961, statod

Taes

(Int) 1109A3,

the Cuban G-2 agont in Couta-Rica, delivered

a leccure at a neeting on 21 august 1961, sponsored by the

Casara.

lo aposo particularly toa group of Communist synpathizers

Ind a1l1tants

wore chosen to so to cuba dutie me

STArTINg 27

haint 1963, to tolve af solts oy Castruetion

1n guerrilla activities in the Provinco or Las Villas.

5.

Ca & September 1961, a usually reliablo souice reported that

dires dacolna ABiONA Ramos.

diplonatdc passpore mumber D/6J/175,

arrived in lexico on 15 May 1951, departed Menteo for. Tatiann

on 3 june 1001, roturned do Yesico on 28 July 1961 mids

departed Mexico for. San Jose on 30 July 1961.

ARJONA WIS

described as having been bors in 1919, a nulatto; and married:

In the Y Auguet 1961, Issue of the San Jose dally newspaper!

In Fora,

1t was reported that andres Nicolas ARIONA Ramos, the

¿Dian Charge d'Affaires, was replacing Cuban Ambassador Juan:

JOse FUXA Saenz.

6. À 10port dated 29 August 1962, from a usually-rollable source.:

stated that Andres ARIONA Razos, the new Cuban Commercial

Counselor of the Cuban Embassy in Mexico, arrived

on 28 August 1962, and would replaco Ramon CUENCA Montoto.

Ale:-con businessman with close contacts in coumercial

shipping circles stated, in a report dated 29 October 1962,

that thiero hali been no evidence that Andres ARNONA Ramos

had replaced CUENCA as chict of G-2 in lexico.

According to

ARKONA 1s highly intellectual and has no under

staneans of commercial activities.

CUENCA suggested that

1S.01a be trinstorred to the Cultural Section and source

boldevos that this will be the case.

8.

Docuientary information received in a report dated 25 June 1963,

Ison a represertative of this Agency in sexico revealed the

following information:

-adres ARICNA Ramos, a legio who was born in labana,

Cuba, or 20 November 191S,

is the Commercial Attache

at the. Cuban Embassy in Jesico City. He holds

passport number D/62/190. His wife, Irma MILit Olivera

de Armoné, holds passport number E/62/637.

ARJONA has

iwo children, Fidel ARLONA kilan and Margarita ARMONA

ailan.

In sexico City, ARIONA ind his family reside

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

---

## Page 3

1d-0n0d

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSIN

=: Jachuca 122.

9.

A sonur: daled 53 aral 1904,

from a fairly reliable source,

formoris of ine Comercial: 0%f1ce

arcchic la Cuba. for

havia sept suct pos recorde of exponditures;

se cars.

close in bodas fires 1nt0 Ja11.

lie tas now

been relerated

so clippiss rotspapers, cloarly denoied. He left thinga

In sies an alaul ='ss al the office ir levico Caty, people

there to siiil erring to straighton out has accounts.

C R

50

FOREiGN

DISSES

---

