104-10414-10160)

100

“CONFIDENTIAL.

16 November 1978

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
SUBJECT : HSCA Access to Mexico City History

1. HSCA requested access to some 200 pages of the
three-volume history of Mexico City - about a third of
the material. The substantive content runs the gamut from
the history of Mexico University through detailed operation-
al support capabilities and high level political connect-
ions and activities. It is an impressive accumulation of
operational activity - classical sources and methods, as
well as detailed revelations about past events.

2. We pointed out that the agreement between Chairman
Stokes and DDCI Carlucci directly faced the issue of the
irrelevancy of the vast majority of the history, and the
sensitivity of it. The HSCA position had been that it had”
to verify this, and the access given to senior levels was
to satisfy this. Now it was being requested in connection
with depositions, which would serve to get this material
into a Committee transcript. Since some two-thirds of the
station's history (the work covers, 1947. through 1969) pre-
ceded the visit of Oswald to Mexico in 1963 and assassination
of the President, that clearly had nothing to do with the
Committee's charter. I added that Mr. Carlucci is out of
town, and will not be back until some time Sunday, so I
could not go back to him. The request was so far beyond the
agreement, that I felt I could not modify it. Cornwell then
asked that I speak to the Director.

3. I saw the Director at about noon, and summarized
the agreement and the dilemma, also going over the above.
He stated that I could offer access to one senior staff
member (in addition to Blakey and Cornwell)on the condition
that material from the history not be used in depositions.

4. I spoke with Cornwell, giving him the message. He
said that they may wish to use some of the material. I
replied that the history is based on other sources; those
related to the portion that is within the Committee's charter

“CONFIDENTIAL



13-00000

Distribution:

1

enone

- " CONFIDENTIAL

was based entirely on sources to which Committee investi-
gator's have had access. Our problem was the overall
collection, and particularly some of the substance of the
history. He asked if he could come back and ask for it,
if they wanted to use something in particular. I said
that we had never closed a door completely, but that the
Director's condition was fairly clear. Those things
relevant to their authorized inquiry were already in
their hands, so I could not think what they would have

to use from this. They will ask us, and we can react
when they do.

S$. Goldsmith came over to start reading.

<SD Bt

S. D. Breckinridge

- F. Hitz/OL€

- H. Smith/SA/DDCI

N. Shepanek /PCS/LOC ~
W. papi couidmadiane
OLC/ Sub}

OLC/Chrono

serena

"BONFIDENTIAL



13-00000

WMevica, Dec 19>
Seen ereennaeanstitit
isan

y@ nes
Leen - ees Leleptune lep

Pi28br SEF ok sq. ciel

Wonvor = pe FFF
a 7 a2 { :
Pues SO ater ell |
Werloy yoo) Leleg houe Neue ae
Pi NOT Ve. i

zy

Sut veilance.

i
i
i
i
| S. howard Wud? = cyemed. oP.
i
a

LEB RACE — (Wo leleral))

1 Weree <  Nowet orbrot er
- 2L4” ee
? re e “a: is s) ace rey
dawiIED - pote. Surven . Rov.
H
i AW CALLA 7 02436 : “
; Pe WIRIG - eat ~
A WAHT
5
7 Lion put : ne
! LTReRY

ee enna +


13-00000 .

i
t
i
}

ene igpca


em nha tage ements ROE eyengeomomannrs prea erepitrerati:sman me merit vm
° i

eres a mannset on joc Magg:



13-00000

i Rceet Rinne daa eee + samen tuc hema teahaer tis

aa

ewstnsleass wt ebsibonees coe nae


13-00000 -

tia diate Nas tee arteannan evernns essai taba sndinnesionensns libs itm. suifeeennsp abode:



eapeentgradyeemseseecnasee abe rat
seer ee pemnagiomenawizone,

pe

;
:

ey
e- 74
ag- 24
ase 2
- 24
ar ica oe
- ob
a: &
ma ee
a)
enh oe
erage 1SE
Heya
gare
_ gst td
errs
_ ase 203



13-00000

+ Bde

~ 29h. 34t

ry

~ BR t= Be

- 39e@- 145

~4 3% -4S7

- foo

- §eod- foo

-Stl- S3F

SS 2 Non om oe oer RR ee neMMeT irre eet aH

sea tBonacyaleiaes ad as hee nent see aes


13-00000

Exkta co Ges.

