# 104-10433-10212

## Page 1

1104-70433-10212

1319

---

## Page 2

13-00000

APPEALS KEVERS FORM

319

1ab@-52 contains Dispatch UFGA-29877 dated 11 Agr. 1168

( Previously denied remed on

(x) Segregable

portions P

under

OF FOIA

() Located during the DO appeals review.

() Roforred to DO for review by

further description, identification, comnents, and/or referrals, etc.

I RECOMMEND:

() Sustain initinl denial in toto under exemption(s)

ADD exemption (s)

( ) DROP exemption (5)

of

( )

Sustaln initial release of sanitized version with excised portions

exempted under

ADD exemption (g)

(3 DROP Cention)

Relense additional incormation

with excised portions exempted under

(5)/11 (0)

of F018

(.? Deny document lui toto under exemption(s) -

of

/ I Release a

sanitized version with excised portions exempted under

The exumptions clted above are being claimed to protect the following:

Information from i foreign liaison service

Informat lon

Informat lon

pertaining to a

foroign liaison relationship

which would/could identify the

Information pertaining

Informatlon portaining

Location

to intelligence nothods

of CIA overseas installation

Location

ot unacknowledged domestic installation

Nune

of CIA employee

File number

Pseudonym

Cryptonyms

Internal

organizational data

Name

FBI

of FBI agent

file nunber

Privacy of other individual

OTHER

COMMENTS and/or SPICIAL INSTRUCTIONS.

Turing

the DDO classification review, this document which was narked

ECRET

was:

maintaincd

classified

dancitized

denied to Considential

12 iNIDE*

Ci.

---

## Page 3

13-00000

.57

TELEPOUCH

DISP NO

FILE NO

• NONE

DATE

• BE APRIL. 1968

INDEXING

* NONE

MICROFIIMED

APR 1 5 1968

DOC. MIcrO. DER.

MICROFILM * NONE

TO

- CHIEF

INFO

FROM

- CHIEF,

• CHIEF

CHIEF

SUEJECT

O SUMMARY OF CUBAN MEDIA TREAIMENT OF THE DEAIN OF

MARIIN LUTHER KING, TAI APRIL 1968

THE FOLLOWING SUMMARY OF CUBAN MEDIA COVERAGE

OF THE MARIIN

LUTHER KING ASSASSINATION-DURING IHE PERIOD 5-8 APRIL HAS BEEN

PREPARED BY THE

GRANMA /HAVANA DAILY NEWSPAPER OF THE COMMUNIST PARTY OF

CUBAL, È APRIL 6S, FRONS PAGE - "LAST MINUTE NEWS - MARTIN LUTHER

KING ASSASSINATED IN MEMPHIS, U.S.A. ACCORDING IO FIRST REPORIS,

LUTHER KING HAS BEEN SHOT BY A WHITE WELL-DRESSED YOUNG MALE."•

WAT GRANMA, I APRIL; FRONT PAGE • "'IWENTY-SEVEN PERSONS HAVE

BEEN KILLED IN THE U.S. AS A RESULI OF THE FIGHTING WHICH HAS BEEN

GOING ON SINCE THE ASSASSINATION OF MARTIN LUTHER KING. IN WASHING.

TON ALONE THERE ARE 758 WOUNDED AND 4, 186 PERSONS ARRESTED SNIPERS

CONTINUE TO BE ACTIVE IN DIFFERENT GITIES IN IME U.S. THE WHIJE

HOUSE AND THE CAPITOL ARE UNDER HEAVY GUARD.'':

/FULL INFORMATION

CHANDA, I APRIL, LASI PAGE - 'TO RICHMOND TO LIBERATE RAP

• BRON. • WASHINGTON, I APRIL, ASSOCIATEO FRENCH PRESS - AFFE

FRENCH REUS AGENCY AYX

LEAFLETS WERE DISTRI@UTED MERE THIS MOKNING,

URGING THE WEGRO PEOPLE OF WASHINGION TO GO TO RICIMOND TO LIBERATE

MAP BROWN !

JUTHE LEAFLETS CALLED ON THE NEGROES TO FORM A MOTOR-

•CADE AND LEAVE FOR RICHMOND TOMORROW, MONDAY

TELE POUCH

PAGE ONE

APPROVED FOR RELEASE

Bald -

22002

---

## Page 4

13-00000

TELE POUCH

PAGE TWO

A, GRAMMA, I APRIL, LAST PAGE - ARTICLE ENTITLED "PRINCIPAL

JEGRO ORGANIZATIONS IN THE U.S""", BY JUANA CARRASCO. THE ARTICLE

¡AYS THAT NEGRO ORGANIZATIONS ARE DIVIDED INTO TWO GROUPS - THE

IOLENT ONES AND THE NON-VIOLENT ONES. IT MENTIONS THE FOLLOWING

MONG THOSE WHICH ADVOCAIE THE USE OF VIOLENCE - CONGRESS OF RACIAL

QUALITY / CORES, STUDENT NON-VIOLENI COONDINATING COMMITTEE /SNCC/,

LACK MUSLIMS, BLACK PANTHER PARTY, BLACKSIONE RANGERS, THE ALERT

ATROL, REVOLUTIONARY ACTION MOVEMENT /IAM/, THE BLACK GUARDS, THE

EACONS, AND "THE UOS.'' THE FOLLOWING NEGRO ORGANIZATIONS AME

ENTIONED AMONG THOSE WHICH ADVOCATE NON-VIOLENCE - NATIONAL ASSO=

: IATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE /NAACP/, NATIONAL

IRBAN LEAGUE; AND THE SOUTHERN CHRISTIAN LEADERSHIP CONFEHENCE

SaLC/ •

É GRANMA, l APRIL, LAST PAGE - NATTEMPTS ARE BING MADE TO

LAME CARMICHAEL FOR THE OUIBREAK OF RACIAL VIOLENCE IN THE U.S. *

XT GRANMA, I APRIL, LAST PAGE - ISRACIAL CLASHES BETWEEN NEGRO

ND WHITE AMERICAN SOLDIERS IN JAPAN,**

I GRANMA, PAPRIL, LAST PAGE - JOTHE AMERICAN NEGRO PEOPLE.".

IS: GRANA, É APRIL, LAST PAGE - MARTYRS OF THE NEGRO

TRUGGLE. *

ÓM RADIO LIBERACION AND RADIO PROGRESO /HAVANA RADIO STATIONS/

APRIL, CUP DONE AND 12 NOON - THE CHIEF OF THE MISSION TO CUBA

F THE SOUTH VIETNAMESE NATIONAL LIBERATION FRÖNT HAS SENT A MESSAGE

O AFRO-AMERICANS ON THE ASSASSINATION OF THE LEADER, MARTIN LUTHER

ING.

THIS MESSAGE SAYS THAT THE CRIME WHICH WAS COMMITTED AGAINST

ARTIN LUTHER KING UNMASKS THE EVIL FACE OF THE RULERS AND RACISTS

F THE UNITED STATES. *

**THE MESSAGE OF THE VIEINAMESE MISSION IU

AVANA ENDS BY SAYING THAT, WITH THE ASSASSINATION OF LUTHER KING,

LL THAT HAS BEEN ACCOMPLISHED BY THE RULERS OF THE UNITED STATES

'S TO POUR OIL ONTO THE FLAMES OF INE SIRUGGLE OF AFRO-AMERICANS,

TELE POUCH

PAGE TWO

+ 799)

---

## Page 5

13-00000

TELEPOUCH

PAGE THREE

ID THAI THESE FLAMES ARE RISING VIOLENILY TO FUT AN END TO ALL THE

¿PRESSION AND INJUSTICE WHICH IS FOUND IN THE UNITED STATESY WHICH

NDERS THE ADVANCEMENT OF THE MILLIONS OF PEOPLE IN THE ENTIRE

JUNIRY.**

ARiA RADIO LIBERACION, D'APRIL, REP POlIO - GOSTONELY CARMICHAEL,

¿ADER OF BLACK POWER, SAID • AWE NEGROES MUST AHM OUNSELVES WITH

IFLES AND PISTOLS AND LAUNCH AN ASSAULT ON THE SIREETS OF IME

ITIES OF THE UNITED STATES IN REPRISAL FOR KING'S ASSASSINATION.'

ARMICHAEL PREDICIED THAT. THERE WILL BE EXECUTIONS IN THE SIREETS AS

RESULT OF KING'S ASSASSINATION. HE ALSO PREDICIED THAT THE

IOLENCE WHICH HAS BEEN UNLEASHED BY NEGROES AS A RESULT OF KING'S

EATH WILL BE PALE AS COMPARED TO WHAT WILL HAPPEN IN AMERICAN

ITIES.**

NCE

AGAIN THAT THE EXPLOIIED MASSES CAN ONLY ANSWER REACTIONARY

IOLENCE WITH REVOLUTIONARY VIOLENCE.?•

AN RADIO PROGRESO, É APRIL, ILE P.M. M JICARMICHAEL SAID

URING A TELEPHONE INTERVIEW THAT *A SERIOUS MISTAKE HAS BEEN MADE

N. ASSASSINATING DR, KING BECAUSE HE HAD BEEN THE LEADER OF A MOVE

ENT WHICH URGED THE NEGRO: PEOPLE OF THE UNITED STATES NOT TO BURN

HE CITIES, NOT TO COMMIT ACIS OF VIOLENCE, THIS MEANS THAT IT WILL

E NECESSARY TO START AN ALL-OUT REVOLUTION," CARMICHAEL ADDED: -

SERIOUS INCIDENIS HAVE TAKEN PLACE IN 35 CITIES WHERE THERE HAVE

SEEN FIRES, SHOOTING, FIGHTING, AND DEATHS AS A RESULT OF THE CRIME

COMMITTED AGAINST DR. KING:

NATURALLY, OTHER SIMILAR THINGS WILL

AKE PLACE, GUERRILLA WARFARE WILL RAPIDLY SPREAD THROUGH THE CITIES

ECAUSE IT IS ALREADY EVIDENT THAT WE CANNOT OPENLY REBEL AGAINGT

•HE POLICE.*

STOKELY CARMICHAEL ENDED THE INTERVIEW BY SENDING

IFFECTIONATE REGARDS TO THE REVOLUTIONARY CUBAN REOPLE AND THEIR

LADER, FIDEL CASINO RULE

TELEPOUCH

PAGE THREE

---

## Page 6

13-00000.

TELEPOUCH

PAGE FOUR

13. RADIO HABANA, I APRIL, É POliO A JUAN MARI! BRAS,

SECRETARY-GENERAL OF THE MOVEMENT FOR THE INDEPENDENCE OF PUERTO

¡ICO, MADE THE FOLLOWING SIATEMENIS IN A LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE

INTERVIEW - ADR. LUTHER KING'S ASSASSINATION WILL UNDOUBIEDLY PRE-

CIPITATE THE REBELLION OF THE NEGRO PEOPLE OF THE UNITED STATES

AGAINST ALL THE ABUSES OF WHICH THEY HAVE BEEN THE OBJECT. ' AF

ÁRIT RADIO HABANA, S APRIL, I POM. Á BATHE EXECUTIVE SECRETARIAI

DE. THE ASIAN, AFRICAN, AND LATIN AMERICÃN PEOPLES SOLIDARITY ORGANI-

'ATION /AALAPSO/ SENT A MESSAGE OF CONDOLENCE TO THE SNCC ON THE

ISSASSINATION OF LUTHER KING.'' ''THE AALAPSO'S MESSAGE TO THE

IMERICAN PACIFIST ORGANIZATION ENDS AS FOLLOWS A QWE BEG YOU TO

:XPRESS TO THE FAMILY OF MARTIN LUTHER KING AND TO ALL AFRO-AMERICANS

JUR DEEPEST SORROW OVER HIS DEATH, OUR DECISION TO SUPPORT YOUR

STRUGGLE, AND OUR DEEP CONVICTION THAT THIS TERRIBLE CRIME --WHICH

SHOWS US THAT ARMED REVOLUTIONARY VIOLENCE IS THE ONLY WAY OF ACHIEV

ING GENUINE LIBERATION WILL HELP. STRENGIHEN THE STRUGGLE OF THE

¡FRO-AMERICAN PEOPLE WHICH IS ALREADY AIMED IN THE DIRECTION OF A

OTAL CONFRONTATION. sa

DETT RADIO HABANA, I APRIL, Í POM. I AJAGUST IN /GONZALEZI.

ARTINEZ, BISHOP OF THE EPISCOPAL CHURCH OF CUBA, MADE THE FOLLOWING

¡TATEMENIS IN A SPECIAL, INTERVIEW - MAY INE TRAGIC DISAPPEARANCE

F THIS. GREAT LEADER AT LEAST HELP TO SPEED UP THE ARRIVAL OF THE DAY

HEN EVERY MAN IN HIS NATION AND IN ALL OLHER, NATIONS WILL BE TREATED

ITH THE RESPECT WHICH IS DUE TO THEM AS HUMAN BEINGS. * 25

RADI

RADIO HABANA, PAPRIL, I P.M. A JJREVEREND FAFAEL: PASTOR;

§ THE PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH IN LUYANO, HAVANA, MADE THE FOLLOWING

TATEMENIS IN A SPECIAL INTERVIEW - AHIS BROTHERS, INE AMERICAN

EGROES, WILL LEARN MUCH FROM NIS DEAIM. WE CAN ALMOST

ASSURE THAT

HEY, THE AMERICAN NEGROES WHOSE DIGMITY AND DECORUM HAS DÉEN

RUSHED & WILL COME BACK. IO LIFE AFTER CENTURIES OF LETHANGY AND

TELEFOUCH

PAGE FOUR

---

## Page 7

13-0000,0

TELE POUCH

PAGE FIVE

¡ILL RISE FROM IMEIR GRAVES AND FORM AN INVINCIBLE ARMY. ' NE

GO RADIO LIBERACION, APRIL, YP.M. A EDITORIAL COMMENTS

RITICIZING THE NON-VIOLENT LINE WHICH WAS ADVOCATED BY LUTHER KING,

SAYING INAT THIS LINE WAS INOPERATIVE. SOMARTIN LUTHER KING DID NOT

REACH VIOLENCE BUT HE WAS THE VICTIM OF VIOLENCE. HE DID NOT

INLEASH VIOLENCE BUT VIOLENCE MOWED NIM DOWN.'

SIr RADIO HABANA, 'AFRIL 68, PER P.M. A "JOHNSON POSTPONED

¡IS TRIP. HE CALLED IHE CIVIL RIGHTS LEADERS--WHO WERE MORE OR

ESS UNDER CONTROL--TO GO TO THE WHITE HOUSE.

JOHNSON APPEARED

ON

ELEVISION. HE EXPRESSED HIS ANGUISH AND HIS SORROW. HE MADE

INSPIRED COMMENIS ABOUT MARTIN LUTHER KING... THESE ACTIONS AND THESE

LORDS HIDE FEAR OVER INE WAVE OF JUST VIOLENCE WHICH IS SIARTING IO

SPREAD THROUGH THE UNITED STATES. ' JYAT A TIME WHEN COMPLEX INTER-

VATIONAL NEGOTIATIONS MIGHT BE UNDERWAY, UNDER DIFFICULT CONDITIONS,

THIS NEW CRIME WIDENS THE CHASN WHICH DIVIDES THE PEOPLE OF THE

JNITED STATES AND INCITES THE PEOPLE TO PROMOTE DISTURBANCES WHOSE

*AR-REACHING EFFECIS ARE HARD TO PREDICI. '" JOTHE ASSASSINATION OF

TARIIN LUTHER KING CONFIRMS THAT THE VIOLENCE OF IMPERIALIST RACISTS

IS ONLY ANSWERED EFFECTIVELY WITH THE VIOLENCE OF THE REVOLUTIONARY

STRUGGLE.'•

DISTRIBUTION

VIA TELEPOUCH

3 A

2 A

TELEPOUCH

PAGE FIVE

3T

---

## Page 8

13-0.0000

5%.:

---18

IELE POUCH

DISP NO

FILE NO

DATE

• RO APRIL

1968

MICROFILMED

APR 15 1968

DOC. MICRO. SER.

TO

INFO

FROM

SUBJECT

O SUNDARY OF CUBAN MEDIA TREATMENT OF THE DEATH OF

MARTIN LUTHER KING, IAI APRIL 1968

IKE FOLLOWING SUMMARY OF CUBAN MEDIA COVERAGE OF THE MARTIN

LUTHER KING

ASSASSINATION DURING THE PERIOD 5-8 APRIL HAS BEEN

PREPARED

ENT

GRANDA /HAVANA DAILY NEWSPAPER OF THE COMMUNIST PARTY OF

CUBA/, I APRIL 63, FRONT PAGE - "LAST MINUTE NEWS - MARTIN LUTHER

KING ASSASSINATED IN MEMPHIS, U.S.A• ACCORDING TO FIRST REPORIS

LUTHER KING HAS BEEN SHOT BY A "WHITE WELL-DRESSED YOUNG MALE.""

2

IT GRANMA, A APRIL, FRONT PAGE - 'TWENTY-SEVEN PERSONS HAVE

BEEN KILLED IN THE U.S, AS A RESULT OF INE FIGHTING WHICH HAS BEEN

GOING ON SINCE IHE ASSASSINATION OF MARTIN LUTHER KING. IN WASHING-

TON ALONE IMERE ARE 750 WOUNDED AND 4, 186 PERSONS ARRESTED. SNIPERS

CONTINUE TO BE ACTIVE IN DIFFERENT CITIES IN INE U.S. THE WHITE

HOUSE AND THE CAPITOL ARE UNDER HEAVY GUARDO' /FULL INFORMATION

GIVEN. /

3

EXT GRANKA,

I APRIL, LAST PAGE • "'TO RICHMOND TO LIBERATE RAP

•"WASHINGION, MAPRIL, ASSOGIATED FRENCH PRESS - AFFE

FRENCH

NEX'S AGENCY AMX

LEAFLETS WERE DISTRIBUTED HERE THIS MORNING,

URGING THE NEGRO PEOPLE OF WASKINGION TO GO TO RICHMOND TO LIBERATE

RAP BROWN.'' SUTHE LEAFLEIS CALLED ON THE NEGROES TO FORM A MOTOR-

CADE AND LEAVE FOR RICHMOND TOMORROW, MONDAY, '*

IELEPOUCH

PAGE ONE

rica

Date wann

---

## Page 9

13-00000

TELEPOUCH

PAGE TWO

AL GRANA, APRIL, LASE PACE - ARTICLE ENTITLED •PRINCIPAL

NEGRO ORCANIZATIONS IN THE U.5.'"

,.BY JUANA CARRASCO. IME ARTICLE

SAYS

THAT

NEGRO ORGANIZATIONS ARE DIVIDED INTO TWO CROUPS THE

VIOLENT ONES AND

THE NON-VIOLENT ONES.

IT MENTIONS THE FOLLOWING

AMONG THOSE WHICH ADVOCAIE THE USE OF VIOLENCE - CONCRESS OF RACIAL

EQUALITY / CORE/, SIUDENT NON-VIOLENT COORDINATING COUMITTEE /SNCC/,

• BLACK MUSLIMS, BLACK PANTHER PARTY, BLACKSIONE RANGERS, THE ALERT

PAIROL, REVOLUTIONARY ACTION MOVEMENT /RAM/, THE BLACK GUARDS, INE

DEACONS, AND "'THE U.S."'• THE FOLLOWING NEGRO ORGANIZATIONS ARE

MENTIONED AMONG THOSE WHICH ADVOCATE NON-VIOLENCE - NATIONAL ASSO-

CIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE /NAACP/, NATIONAL

URBAN LEAGUE, AND THE SOUIKERN CHRISTIAN LEADERSHIP CONFEKENCE

GRANA, & APRIL, LAST PAGE - ATTEMPTS ARE BING MADE TO

BLAME CARMICHAEL FOR THE QUIBREAK OF RACIAL VIOLENCE IN THE U.SO'

MY GRANIA, I APRIL, LAST PADE - ATRACIAL CLASHES BETWEEN NEGRO

AND

WHITE AMERICAN SOLDIERS IN JAPAN.

LE GRANTA, A APRIL, LASE PADE - JETHE AMERICAN

NEGRO PEOPLE."

GRANMA, & APRIL, LAST

PAGE - * MARTYRS OF THE NEGRO

STRUGGLE, *•

RADIO LIBERACION AND RADIO PROGRESO /HAVANA RADIO STATIONS!

& APRIL, OUR. A.M. AND 12 NOON - •THE CHIEF OF THE MISSION TO CUBA

OF THE SOUIH VIETNAMESE NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT HAS SENT A MESSAGE

TO AFRO-AMERICANS ON THE ASSASSINAIION OF INE LEADER, MARIIN LUTHER

KING. THIS DESSACE SAYS THAT THE

CRIME WHICH WAS COMMITTED

AGAINST

• MARTIN LUTHER KING UNWASKS INE EVIL FACE OF INE RULERS AND RACISIS

OF THE UNITED SIATES.**

*THE MESSAGE OF THE VIEINAMESE MISSION

IN

NAVANA ENDS BY SAYING THAT, WITH IHE ASSASSINATION OF LUTHER KINGY

ALL THAT HAS BEEN ACCOMPLISHED BY THE RULES OF THE UNITED SIATES

IS TO FOUR OIL ONTO THE FLAMES OF IME STRUGGLE OF AFRO-AMERICANS,

TELEPOUCH

PAGE TWO

---

## Page 10

13-00000

TELEPOUCH

PAGE ThhEE

AND THAT THESE FLAMES ARE RISING VIOLENILY TO PUT AN END TO ALL THE

OFFRESSION AND INJUSTICE WHICH IS FOUND IN THE UNITED STATES, WHICH

HINDERS INE ADVANCEMENT OF THE MILLIONS OF PEOPLE IN THE ENTIRE

COUNTRY."*

LET RADIO LIBERACION, A APRIL, REP POM.

- GASTONELY CARMICHAEL,

LEADER OF BLACK POWER, SAID • AWE NEGROES MUST ARU OURSELVES WITH

RIFLES AND PISTOLS AND LAUNCH AN ASSAULT ON THE STREETS OF IKE

CITIES OF THE UNITED STATES IN REPRISAL FOR KING'S ASSASSINATION""

CARMICHAEL PREDICIED THAT THERE WILL BE EXECUTIONS IN THE STREETS AS

A RESULT OF KING'S ASSASSINATION. HE ALSO PREDICIED INAT IHE

VIOLENCE WHICH MAS BEEN UNLEASNED BY NEGROES AS A RESULT OF KING'S

DEAIN WILL BE PALE AS COMPARED TO WHAT WILL HAPPEN IN AMERICAN

CITIES.""

ÓE RADIO HABANA, E APRIL, & PAN. A SOHIS /KING•S/ DEATH SHOWS

ONCE AGAIN THAI THE EXPLOITED MASSES CAN ONLY ANSWER MEACIIONARY

VIOLENCE WITH REVOLUTIONARY VIOLENCE.

OUT RADIO PROGRESO, I APRIL, ALE POO I ESCARMICHAEL SAID

DURING A TELEPHONE INTERVIEW THAT •A SERIOUS MISTAKE KAS BEEN MADE

IN ASSASSINATING DR. KING BECAUSE HE HAD BEEN THE LEADER OF A MOVE-

MENT WHICH URGED

THE NEGRO PEOPLE OF TRE UNITED STATES NOT TO BURN

THE CITIES, NOT TO COMMIT ACIS OF VIOLENCE. THIS MEANS IHAT II WILL

BE NECESSARY TO START AN ALL-CUT REVOLUTION, ' CARMICHAEL ADDED -

* SERIOUS INCIDENIS HAVE TAKEN PLACE IN 35 CITIES WHERE THERE HAVE

BEEN FIRES, SHOOTING, FIGHTING, AND DEANS AS A RESULT OF THE CRIME

COMMITIED ACAINSI DR. KING, NATURALLY, OTHER SIMILAR THINGS WILL

•TAKE PLACEA: GUERRILLA WARFARE WILL RAPIDLY SPREAD IHROUGH THE CITIES

BECAUSE IT IS ALREADY EVIDENT THAT WE CANNOI OPENLY REBEL AGAINST

INE POLICE, STOKELY CARMICHAEL ENDED THE INTERVIEW BY SENDING

AFFECTIONATE REGARDS TO THE REVOLUTIONARY CUBAN PEOPLE AND THEIR

LEADER, FIDEL CASTRO RUZ.'°

CELEPOUCH

PAGE TARGE

.. ..:

---

## Page 11

13-00000

TELEPOUCH

FAGE

FOUR

13º RADIO HABANA,

SECRETARY-GENERAL OF THE MOVEMENI. FOR THE INDEPENDENCE OF PUERTO

RICO, MADE INE FOLLOWING

STATEUENTS IN

A LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE

INTERVIEW - DOR. LUTHER KING'S ASSASSINATION WILL UNDOUBTEDLY PRE-

CIPITATE THE REBELLION

OF THE NEGRO PEOPLE OF THE UNITED STATES

AGAINST ALL THE ABUSES OF WHICH THEY HAVE BEEN THE OBJECT. GE

EAT RADIO HABANA, S APRIL, I PON. Á DITHE EXECUTIVE

SECRETARIAT

OF THE ASIAN, AFRICAN, AND LATIN AMERICAN PEOPLES SOLIDARITY ORGANI-

ZATION /AALAPSO/ SENT A MESSAGE OF CONDOLENCE TO THE SNCC ON THE

ASSASSINATION OF LUTHER KINGO'' *THE AALAPSO'S MESSAGE TO THE

AMERICAN PACIFIST ORGANIZATION ENDS AS FOLLOWS A AWE BEG YOU TO

EXPRESS TO INE FAMILY OF MARTIN LUTHER KING AND

TO ALL AFRO-AMERICANS

OUR

DEEPESI SORROW OVER HIS DEATH, OUR DECISION TO SUPPORT YOUR

SIRUGGLE, AND OUR DEEP CONVICTION THAT THIS TERRIBLE CRIME--WHICH

SROWS US THAT ARMED REVOLUTIONARY VIOLENCE IS THE ONLY WAY OF ACHIEV-

ING GENUINE LIBERATION -WILL HELP STRENGTHEN THE STRUGGLE. OF THE

AFRO-AMERICAN PEOPLE WHICH IS ALREADY AIMED IN THE DIRECTION OF A

TOTAL CONFRONIATION.®

EAT RADIO HABANA, & APRIL, POM. MSSAGUSTIN /GONZALEZA

MARTINEZ; BISHOP OF THE EPISCOPAL CHURCH OF CUBA, MADE THE FOLLOWING

STATENENIS IN A SPECIAL INTERVIEW - SAY THE TRAGIG DISAPPEGFANCE

OF THIS GREAT LEADER AT LEASI NELP IO SPEED UP INE ARRIVAL OF THE DAY.

WHEN EVERY MAN IN HIS NATION AND IN ALL OTHER NATIONS WILL BE TREATED

WITH THE RESPECT WHICH IS DUE TO THEM AS HUMAN BEINGS. S

STA RADIO HABANA, E APRIL, P.M. I LOREVEREND RAFAEL PASTOR

• OF THE PRESDYTERIAN CHURCH IN LUYANO, MAVANA, MADE THE FOLLOWING

STATEMENIS IN A SPECIAL INTERVIEW - ANIS BROTHERS, THE AMERICAN

NEGROES, WILL LEARN MUCH FROW HIS DEATH. WE CAN ALMOST

ASSURE THAT

THEY, THE AMERICAN NEGROES WHOSE DIGMIIY AND DECORUM HAS BEEN

CRUSHED A WILL COGE BACK

TO LIFE AFTER CENTURIES OF LETHARGY AND

TELEPOUCH

PAGE FOUR

---

## Page 12

13-00000

TELE POUCH

PAGE FIVE

WILL RISE FROM THEIR CRAVES AND FORM AN INVINCIBLE ARMY,' att

DUL- RADIO LIBERACION, I APRIL, P.M. A EDITORIAL COMMENTS

CRITICIZING THE NON-VIOLENI LINE WHICH WAS ADVOCATED BY LUTHER KING

SAYING THAT INIS LINE WAS INOPERATIVE.. JUMARTIN LUTHER KING DID NOT

PREACH VIOLENCE BUT HE WAS THE VICTIM OF VIOLENCE. HE DID NOT

UNLEASH VIOLENCE BUI VIOLENCE MOWED HIM DOWN, "*

GEt RADIO HABANA, I APRIL 5S, XLE PO. I LOANSON POSTPCHED

HIS TRIP. HE CALLED THE CIVIL RIGHTS LEADERS--WHO WERE MORE OR

LESS UNDER CONTROL--TO GO TO THE WHITE HOUSE.

JOHNSON

APPEARED ON

TELEVISION. HE EXPRESSED HIS ANGUISH AND HIS SORROW. HE MADE

INSPIRED COMMENIS ABOUT MARTIN LUTHER KING. THESE ACTIONS AND THESE

WORDS HIDE FEAR OVER THE WAVE OF JUSI VIOLENCE WHICH IS STARING IO

SPREAD IHROUGH THE UNITED SIATES,"" SYAT A TIME WHEN COMPLEX

INTER-

NATIONAL NEGOTIATIONS MIGHI BE UNDERWAY, UNDER DIFFICULI CONDITIONS,

THIS NEW CRIME WIDENS THE CHASM WHICH DIVIDES THE PEOPLE OF THE

UNITED STATES AND INCITES THE PEOPLE TO PROMOTE DISTURBANCES WHOSE

FAR-REACHING EFFECIS ARE HARD TO PREDICT. ASIKE ASSASSINATION OF

MARTIN LUTHER KING CONFIRMS THAT THE VIOLENCE OF IMPERIALIST RACISTS

IS ONLY ANSWERED EFFECTIVELY WITH THE VIOLENCE OF THE REVOLUTIONARY

STRUGGLE,**

DISTRIBUTION

VIA TELEPOUCH

TELEPOUCH

PAGE FIVE

---

## Page 13

13-0,0000

5P

SRÊT TELEPOUCH

DISP NO

* UFGA-29871

FILE NO

DATE

- NONE

11

• AN APRIL 1958

INDEXING

• NONE

MICROFIIMED

APR 15 1968

DOC

MiCro, sER.

MICROFILM

— NONE

TO

INFO

FROM

SUBJECT

- CHIEF, WH DIVISION

• - CHIEF, WH/COG - CHIEF, WOL IME

i CHIEF OF STATION, JMWAVE

O SUMMARY OF CUBAN MEDIA TREAIMENT OF THE DEATH OF

MART IN LUTHER KING, TAI APRIL 1963.

THE FOLLOWING SUMMARY OF CUBAN MEDIA COVERAGE OF THE MARTIN

LUTHER KING ASSASSINATION DURING THE PERIOD 5-8 APRIL HAS BEEN

PREPARED BY THE AMOTS=

GRANMA /HAVANA DAILY. NEWSPAPER OF IME COMMUNIST PARTY OF

CUBA/, # APRIL 68, FRONT PAGE - 'LAST MINUTE NEWS - MARTIN LUTHER

KING ASSASSINATED IN MEMPHIS, U.S.A, ACCORDING TO FIRSI REPORIS,

LUTHER KING HAS BEEN SHOT BY A WHITE WELL-DRESSED YOUNG MALE®'*

GRAMA, APRIL, FRONE PAGE - •TWENTY-SEVEN PERSONS HAVE

BEEN KILLED IN THE U.S. AS A RESULT OF THE FIGHTING WHICH HAS BEEN

GOING ON SINCE THE ASSASSINATION OF MARIIN LUTHER KING. IN WASHING-

TON ALONE THERE ARE 750 WOUNDED AND 4, 186 PERSONS ARRESIED, SNIPERS

6¡ CONTINUE TO BE ACTIVE IN DIFFERENT CITIES IN IHE U.S. THE WHITE

0

HOUSE AND THE CAPITOL ARE UNDER HEAVY GUARD.' /FULL INFORMATION

GRANNA, E APRIL, LASI PAGE - 'TO RICHMOND TO LIBERATE RAP

• BROiN,

•WASHINGTON, I APRIL, ASSOCIAIED FRENCH PRESS - AFFA

FRENCH NEW'S ACENCY ANX LEAFLEIS WERE DISTRIBUTED HERE THIS MONNING,

URGING TRE NEGRO PEOFLE OF WASKINGION TO GO TO RICHMOND TO LIBERATE

RAP BROUN."

JUINE LEAFLEIS CALLED ON THE NEGROES TO FORM A MUIOR-

CADE AND LEAVE FOR RICHMOND TOMORROW, MONDAY, '

TELEPOUCH

PAGE ONE

Downgraded to

by anhory j90.2260 4 90/2913

1722

ELANSIFICATION SEVEN

2 INDET CL BY 20 25624

- 2012271

FEEL TENT COPY -- 00

NOT

RELEASE

---

## Page 14

13-00000.

TELEPOUCH UFGA-29877 PAGE TWO

DO GRANNA, E APRIL, LAST PAGE - ARTICLE ENTITLED •PRINCIPAL

EGRO ORGANIZATIONS IN THE U.S. ', BY

JUANA CARRASCO.. THE ARTICLE

SYS THAT NEGRO ORGANIZATIONS

ANE DIVIDED INTO TWO GROUPS - THE

IOLENT ONES AND INE NON-VIOLENT ONES. IT MENTIONS THE FOLLOWING

TONG THOSE WHICH ADVOCAIE THE USE OF VIOLENCE • CONGRESS OF RACIAL

QUALITY / CORE/, STUDENT NON-VIOLENI COONDINATING COMMITTEE /SNCG/,

LACK MUSLIMS, BLACK PANTHER PARIY, BLACKSIONE RANGERS, THE ALERT

ATROL, REVOLUTIONARY ACTION MOVEMENI /RAM/, THE BLACK GUARDS, THE

EACONS, AND "'THE UOS,"'• THE FOLLOWING NEGRO ONGANIZATIONS ARE

ENTIONED AMONG THOSE WHICH ADVOCATE NON-VIOLENCE - NATIONAL ASSO

IATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE /NAACP/, NATIONAL

REAN LEAGUE, AND THE SOUTHERN CHRISTIAN LEADERSHIP CONFERENCE

SCL C/

GRANMA, È APRIL, LASI PAGE - SUAIIENFIS ARE BING MADE TO

LAME CARMICHAEL FOR THE OUIBREAK OF RACIAL VIOLENCE IN IHE U.S.*

YAT GRANMA, I APRIL, LAST PAGE - ASIACIAL GLASHES BETWEEN NEGRO

ND WHITE AMERICAN SOLDIERS IN JAPAN, ""

LA: GRANMA, I APRIL, LAST PAGE - SATHE AMERICAN NEGRO PEOPLE, ''

IF GRANMA, È APRIL, LAST PAGE - • MARTYRS OF THE NEGRO

;TRUGGLE*"°

O RADIO LIBERACION AND RADIO PROGRESO /HAVANA RADIO STATIONS/,

• APRIL, ONE A TO AND LE MOON •"THE CHIEF DE INE MISSION TO CLEA

IF THE SOUTH VIETNAMESE NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT HAS SENT A MESSAGE

O AFRO-AMERICANS ON THE ASSASSINATION OF THE LEADER, MARTIN LUTHER

CING• THIS MESSAGE SAYS THAT THE CRIME WHICH WAS COMMITTED AGAINST

ARTIN LUTHER KING UNMASKS THE EVIL FACE OF THE RULERS AND RACISTS

IF THE UNITED SIATES." • THE MESSAGE OF THE VIETNAMESE MISSION IN

LAVANA ENDS BY SAYING THAT, WITH INE ASSASSINATION OF LUTHER KING,

ILL THAT MAS BEEN ACCOMPLISHED BY THE RULERS OF THE UNITED STATES

*3 IO POUR OIL ONTO THE FLAMES OF THE SIRUGGLE OF AFRO-AMERICANS,

TELEPOUCH URGA 29877 PAGE TWO

15793

---

## Page 15

13-00000

• TELEPOUCH UFGA 29877 PAGE IMREE

IND THAT THESE FLAMES ARE RISING VIOLENILY TO PUT AN END TO ALL THE

IPPRESSION AND INJUSTICE WHICH IS FOUND IN INE UNITED STATES, WHICH

MINDERS THE ADVANCEMENT OF THE MILLIONS OF PEOPLE IN INE ENTIRE

COUNIRY."*

RADIO LIBERACION,

APRIL, REP P.M. - JOSIOKELY CARMICHAEL,

LEADER OF BLACK POWER, SAID • AWE NEGROES MUST AHM OURSELVES WITH

HIFLES AND PISTOLS AND LAUNCH AN ASSAULT ON THE STREETS OF THE

CITIES OF THE UNITED SIATES IN REPRISAL FOR KING'S ASSASSINATION.*

CARMICHAEL PREDICIED THAT THERE WILL BE EXECUTIONS IN THE SIREETS AS

I RESULT OF KING'S ASSASSINATION. HE ALSO PREDICTED THAT INE

VIOLENCE WHICH HAS BEEN UNLEASHED BY NEGROES AS A RESULT OF KING*S

JEATH WILL BE PALE AS COMPARED TO WHAI WILL HAPPEN IN AMERICAN

CITIES."*

AB RADIO HABANA, I APRIL, I POMO A LSHIS /KING'S/ DEATH

SHOWS

ONCE AGAIN THAI THE EXPLOITED MASSES CAN ONLY ANSWER REACTIONARY

VIOLENCE WITH REVOLUTIONARY VIOLENCE.""

GHT RADIO PROGRESO, S' APRIL, ARE PU. A LAGANNICHAEL SAID

DURING A TELEPHONE INTERVIEW THAT A SERIOUS MISTAKE HAS BEEN MADE

IN ASSASSINATING DR• KING BECAUSE HE HAD BEEN THE LEADER OF A MOVE

YENT

WHICH URGED THE NEGRO PEOPLE OF THE UNIIED STATES NOT TO BURN

THE CITIES, NOT TO COMMIT ACIS OF VIOLENCE: THIS MEANS THAT IT WILL

'E NECESSARY TO START AN ALL-OUT REVOLUTION, CARMICHAEL ADDED -

'SERIOUS INCIDENTS HAVE TAXEN PLACE IN 35 CITIES WHERE THERE HAVE

EEN FIRES, SHOOTING, FIGHTING, AND DEAINS AS A RESULI OF THE CRIME

COMMITTED AGAINST DRA KING. NATURALLY, OTHER SIMILAR THINGS WILL .

AXE PLACE, GUERRILLA WARFARE WILL RAPIDLY SPREAD THROUGH THE CITIES

ECAUSE IT 15 ALREADY EVIDENT THAT WE CANNOT OPENLY REBEL AGAINST

NE POLICE. STOKELY CARMICHAEL ENDED THE INTERVIEW BY SENDING

IFFECTIONATE REGARDS TO THE REVOLUTIONARY CUBAN PEOFLE AND THEIR

BADER, FIDEL CASIRO RULA"•

TELEPOUCH UFGA-29877 PAGE THREE

---

## Page 16

13-00000

TELEPOUCH UFGA-29877 PAGE FOUR

13. RADIO HABANA, I ARMAL, l POlLO A LEDUAN /ANNIE BRAS,

SECRETARY-GENERAL OF THE MOVEMENT FOR INE INDEPENDENCE OF PUERTO

:ICO, MADE IHE FOLLOWING SIATEMENIS IN A LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE

INTERVIEW - ADR. LUTHER KING'S ASSASSINATION WILL UNDOUBIEDLY PRE-

IPITATE THE REBELLION OF THE NEGRO PEOPLE OF THE UNITED SIATES

GAINST ALL THE ABUSES OF WHICH THEY HAVE BEEN THE OBJECT, ' dE

ARM RADIO MABANA, S APRIL, I POM. À ASTHE EXECUTIVE. SECRETARIAI

IF THE ASIAN, AFRICAN, AND LATIN AMERICAN PEOPLES SOLIDARITY ORGANI-

ATION / AALAPSO/ SENT A MESSAGE OF CONDOLENCE IO THE SNCC. ON IME

ISSASSINATION OF LUTHER KING."" ""THE AALAPSO'S MESSAGE TO IKE

MERICAN PACIFISI ORGANIZATION ENDS AS FOLLOWS A SWE BEG YOU TO

XPRESS IO THE FAMILY OF MARTIN LUTHER KING AND TO ALL AFRO-AMERICANS

JUR DEEPEST SORROW OVER HIS DEATH, OUR DECISION TO SUPPORT YOUR

TRUGGLE, AND OUR DEEP CONVICIION THAT IHIS TERRIBLE CRIME--WHICH

¡NOWS US IHAI ARMED REVOLUTIONARY VIOLENCE IS THE ONLY WAY OF

ACHIEV-

NG GENUINE LIBERATION--WILL HELP STRENGTHEN THE STRUGGLE OF THE

FRO AMERICAN PEOPLE WHICH IS ALREADY AIMED IN THE DIRECTION OF A

OTAL CONFRONIATION.*

15.

RADIO HABANA,

¡ APRIL, L POM. A AJAGUSTIN /GONZALEZI

ARIINEZ, BISHOP OF THE EPISCOPAL CHURCH OF CUBA, MADE THE FOLLOWING

TATEMENTS IN A SPECIAL INIERVIEW • MAY INE TRAGIC DISAPPEARANCE

F THIS GREAT LEADER AT LEAST HELP TO SPEED UP IE ARRIVAL OF THE DAY

HEN EVERY MAN IN HIS NATION AND IN ALL OTHER NATIONS WILL BE TREATED

1.!

ITH THE RESPECI WHICH IS DUE TO INEM AS HUMAN BEINGS. AÓ

D'T RADIO HABAÑA, F' APRIL, I PON # NUHIVEREND RAFAEL PASTOR,

F THE PRESBYIERIAN CHURCH. IN LUYANO, NAVANA, MADE THE FOLLOWING

TATEMENIS IN A SPECIAL INTERVIEW • CHIS BROINERS, THE AMERICAN

EGROES, WILL LEARN MUCH FROM HIS DEATH. WE CAN ALMOSI

ASSURE THAT

HEY, THE AMERICAN NEGROES WHOSE DIGNITY AND DECOHUM HAS BEEN

RUShA

WILL. COME BACK TO LIFE AFTER CENTURIES OF LEIMARGY

TELEPOUCH UFGA-29877 PAGE FOUR

---

## Page 17

13-00000

TELEPOUCH UFGA-29877 PAGE FIVE

WILL

HISE FROM THEIR GRAVES AND FORM AN INVINGIBLE ARMY.' Id

AUM- RADIO LIBERACION, & APRIL, Y POM. À EDITORIAL COMMENT'S

CRITICIZING INE NON-VIOLENT LINE WHICH WAS ADVOCATED BY LUTHER KING,

11

SAYING THAT IHIS LINE WAS INOPERATIVE, SMARTIN LUTHER KING DID NOT

PREACH VIOLENCE BUT HE WAS INE VICIIM OF VIOLENCE. HE DID NOT

UNLEASH VIOLENCE BUT VIOLENCE MOWED HIM DOWN.'•

ALt RADIO HABANA, I APRIL 68, PER POM. Á "JOHNSON POSTPONED

HIS TRIP. HE CALLED THE CIVIL RIGHTS LEADERS --WHO WERE MORE OR

LESS UNDER CONTROL-TO GO TO THE WHITE HOUSE• JOHNSON APPEARED ON

TELEVISION, HE EXPRESSED HIS ANGUISH AND HIS SORROW. HE MADE

INSPIRED COMMENTS ABOUI MARTIN LUTHER KING. THESE. ACTIONS AND THESE

WORDS HIDE FEAR OVER THE WAVE OF JUST VIOLENCE WHICH IS STARTING IO

SPREAD THROUGH IME UNITED STATES.'' AJAT A TIME WHEN COMPLEX INTER-

NATIONAL NEGOTIATIONS MIGHT BE UNDERWAY, UNDER DIFFICULT CONDITIONS,

THIS NEW CRIME WIDENS INE CHASM WHICH DIVIDES THE PEOPLE OF THE

UNITED SIATES AND INCIIES THE PEOPLE TO PROMOTE DISTURBANCES WHOSE

FAR-REACHING EFFECIS ARE HARD TO PREDICI,'" JITHE ASSASSINATION

OF

MARTIN LUTHER KING CONFIRMS THAT THE VIOLENCE OF IMPERIALIST RACISIS

IS ONLY ANSWERED EFFECIIVELY WITH THE VIOLENCE OF THE REVOLUTIONARY

STRUGGLE."*

MARK F. EFFIELD

DISTRIBUTION.

VIA TELEPOUCH

3 А С/ШНО •

2. A C/WH/COG

2 A C/HOLIME

AS TELEPOLH URSA-29677 FASE FIVE

BT

---

## Page 18

13-00000

320

---

## Page 19

13-00.000

APPEALG REVIED FORM

220.

1b

0l-51 contains DiSpoTcH

_GEGA- 29884 dated

1lApril 1968.

"roriously denied in somed lections

men case nt notest lies g Tres

under

(6)(2) (1)(3)

of F0 12

) Located during the DDO appeals rovier.

) Referred to DDO for review by

urther description, identification, comments, ond/or roferrals, etc.

RECOMMEND:

) Sustain initial denial in toto under exemption(s)

ADD exemption (s)

of

) Sustain initial release of sanitized version with excised portions

exempted

under

of

( )

ADD exemption (S)

( ) DROP exemption(s)

* Release additional information with excised portions exempted under

(01(1) (413)

of FOIA

) Deny document In coto under exemption(s) -

of

Release a sanitized

version with excised portions exempted under

he exemptions cited above are being claimed to protect the following:

)

)

Information fcon i foreign liaison service

Information pertaining

a foreign liaison relationship

Informitton

which would/could identify the source

Information pertaining to a source

Infornation pertaining to intelligence methods

Location

of CIA overseas installation

Location

Name

OF CIA employee

File number

Pseudonym

Cryptonyms

Internal organizational data

Name

of FBI agent

FBI File number

Privacy of other individual.

OTHER

ONMENTS and/or SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS.

uring the W00 classification review, this document which was marked

SECRET

was:

maintained

plannified

declassified

dormpitized

* componed to Contidential

1:2

IMPDET

i'l.

KY 012170

---

## Page 20

13-00000

3P

TELEPOUCH

HISP NO

'ILE

NO

LATE

a NONE

- Ró APRIL 1568

INDEXING

* NONE

LICROFILM • NONE

: 0

* CHIEF,

INFO

• CHIEF,

*R OM

SUBJECT

MICRORILMED

APR 15 1963

DOC. MICRO. SER.

CHIEF

@ SUMMARY OF CUBAN MEDIA TREATMENT OF DEATH OF MARTIN

LUTHER KING, JR., IÁO APRIL 1968

¡E FERENCE

• IN ADDITION TO THE SUMMARY. OF CUBAN MEDIA COVERAGE OF THE

TART IN LUTHER KING ASSASSINATION TRANSMITTED IN REFERENCE, THE

"OLLOWING SUMMARY FOR

8»9 APRIL HAS BEEN FURNISHED BY THE

GIS GRANMA, O APRIL, PAGE ONE - JUMOBILIZAIION OF 55, 000

ROOPS TO REPRESS THE NEGROES• A THE ARTICLE REPORTED ALL THE

'ISTURBANCES WHICH HAVE OCCURRED IN THE U.S. AS. A RESULT OF THE

JEATH OF MARTIN LUTHER KING•

WM

GRANNA, O APRIL, PAGE 3 A SUWITH THE ASSASSINAIION OF

TARTIN LUTHER KING THE IDEOLOGY OF NON-VIOLENCE HAS DIED"• A AN

INTERVIEW WITH FLOYD MCKISSICK, NATIONAL DIRECTOR

OF THE

CONGRESS OF RACIAL EQUALITY /CORE/ AUTHIS SIMPLY MEANS' THAT

VON-VIOLENCE HAS CEASED AS A MEANS OF FIGHIING. IHE PEOPLE

CANNOT BE TAUGHT TO BE NON-VIOLENT WHILE WE ARE INVOLVED

IN

• VIOLENT WAR IN VIETNAM, NON-VIOLENCE CANNOT BE PREACHED TO

•NE BLACK PEOPLE WHO HAVE TO FACE VIOLENCE EVERY DAY ON THE

STREETS OF THIS COUNTRY,'* THIS WAS SAID IN A TELEPHONE CONVERSA

ION BETWEEN RADIO HABANA AND FLOYD MCKISSICK. WHEN ASKED ABOUT INE

'OSSISLE CONSEQUENCES OF THE ASSASSINATION OF KING, MCKISSICK RE-

LIED " I REPEAT THAT WE ARE MARING NO PREDICIIONS, BUT INE

18L6 POUCH

PAGE ONE

ARTMOVED COR RELEASE

•Nate Eare

1978

---

## Page 21

13-00000

TELEPOUCH

PAGE IWO

AMERICAN NEGRO IS NOT WILLING IO CONTEMPLATE IMPASSIBLY INE ASSASSI

NATION OF OUR LEADERS, OUR HEROES, AND OUR PEOPLE."•

EM GRANMA, O APRIL, PAGE 3 A ARTICLE BY JUAN MARRERO ENTI-

TLED, AUTHE AMERICAN NEGROES ARE WRITING THEIR FINEST PAGE OF

HEROISM."" JUAGAINST ALL THAT AND MUCH MORE, THE NEGROES ROSE UP

TODAY IN MORE THAN SIXTY CITIES, AND IT IS LOGICAL TO EXPECT NEW

PAGES OF HEROISM.

STOKELY CARMICHAEL, THE NEGRO LEADER, GAVE THIS

WARNING ONE DAY AFIER THE DEATH OF MARTIN LUTHER KING: - JWHAT

HAPPENED ON THE NIGHT WE. LEARNED OF THE ASSASSINATION OF DA, KING

IS NOTHING COMPARED TO WHAT IS GOING TO MAPPEN. ' JJ

RM

GRANMA, O APRIL, PAGE 3 A SUTHE WIDOW OF LUTHER KING HEADS

THE MARCH IN MEMPHIS.'" THE ARTICLE TELLS ABOUT THE MARCH AND

SHOWS PHOTOGRAPHS OF IT.

IM RADIO REBELDE NEWSCAST, I APRIL 1755 A.MO/ A JUA TENSE

CALM REIGNS IN THE U.S, BUT IT IS A PRELUDE TO SERIOUS EVENIS.

NATIONAL MOURNING DECREED BY LYNDON JOHNSON FOR YESTERDAY, U APRIL,

JARKS A LESSENING OF DEMONSIRATIONS WHICH ARE EXPECTED TO START UP

AGAIN AT ANY MOMENT. '*

YM RADIO REBELDE NEWSCAST; I APRIL 1955 A.MOl A JU JFORWARD

VITH BLACK POWER UNTIL CAPITALIST MISERY, THE FUNDAMENIAL CAUSE OF

HUMAN INJUSTICE, IS OVERIHROWN' SAID IME SOCIALISI PARTY OF CHILE

IN A CABLEGRAM SENT TO THE AMERICAN NEGRO LEADER, STOKELY CARMICHAEL&

ON THE OCCASION OF THE ASSASSINATION OF MARTIN LUTHER KING. "º

UM

RADIO LIBERACION, I APRIL / 1230 P.M./ A IHIS NEWSCAST

REFERS TO A DEMONSIRAIION IN WHICH 200 LATIN AMERICANS ASIANS AND

AFRICAN STUDENTS WERE

SAID TO HAVE

PARIICIPATED

IN FRONT OF THE

JoS. EMBASSY IN WARSAW; POLAND, AS A PROTESI OVER INE DEATH OF

TARTIN LUTHER KING=

MISTRISUIION

TELE POUCH

PAGE TWO

---

## Page 22

13-00000

TELEPOUCH

VIA TELEPOUCH

3 A

2 A

2 A

PAGE

THREE

TELEPOUCH

BT

---

## Page 23

13-00000

3P

TELE POUCH

DISP NO

FILE NO

DATE

APRIL

1968

MICROTILMED

APR 15 1908

DOC. MICRO. GER.

TO

INFO

FROM

SUBJECI

O SUMMARY OF CUBAN MEDIA TREATHENT OF DEATH OF MARTIN

LUTHER KING, JR.; 1A0 APRIL 1958

REFERENCE. -

IN ADDITION TO INE SUAMARY OF CUBAN MEDIA COVERAGE OF THE

MARTIN LUIMER KING ASSASSINATION TRANSMITTED IN KEEZHENCE, THE

FOLLOWING SUMMARY

FOR 8-9 APRIL HAS. BEEN FURNISNED

GRANDA, O AFRIL, PAGE ONE - SUMOBILIZATION OF 55, 000

TROOPS TO REPRESS THE NECROES® A THE ARTICLE REPORTED

ALL THE

DISTURBANCES WHICH HAVE OCCURRED IN THE U.S. AS A RESULT OF THE

DEAIN OF MARTIN LUTHER KING,

WI GRANMA, O APRIL, PAGE 5 A JUWIIN THE ASSASSINATION OF

MARIIN LUTHER KING THE IDEOLOGY OF NON-VIOLENCE HAS DIED'• A AN

INTERVIEW WITH FLOYD MCKISSICK, NATIONAL DIRECTON OF INE

CONCRESS OF RACIAL EQUALITY /CORE/• JUTHIS SIMPLY MEANS SHAT

NON-VIOLENCE HAS CEASED AS A MEANS OF FIGHTING. THE FEOPLE

CANNOT BE

TAUGHT TO BE NON-VIOLENT WHILE WE ARE INVOLVED IN

A VIOLENT WAR IN VIETNAM.

NON-VIOLENCE CANNOT BE PREACHED TO

• JHE ELACK PEOPLE WHO MAVE TO FACE VIOLENCE EVERY DAY ON IME

STREEIS OF THIS COUNIRY." INIS WAS SAID IN A TELEPHONE CONVERSA

TION BETWEEN RADIO HABANA AND FLOYD MCKISSICK. WHEN ASED ABOUT THE

POSSIBLE CONSEQUENCES OF THE ASSASSINATION OF KING, MCKISSION RE-

LIED - JUI REPEAT THAT WE. ARE MAKING NO PREDICTIONS, BUT THE

TELEFOUCH

PAGE ONE

Mr..

A APPROVED FOR RS

AUG

---

## Page 24

13-00000

TELEPOUCH

PAGE TWO

AMERICAN NEGRO IS NOT WILLING TO CONTEMPLATE IMPASSIBLY THE ASSASSI

NATION OF OUR LEADERS, OUR HEROES, AND OUR PEOPLE. "'

EM GRAIMA, O APRIL A PAGE 3 A ARTICLE DY JUAN MARRERO ENTI-

TLED, JUIME AMERICAN NEGROES ARE WRITING THEIR FINEST PAGE OF

HEROISH.""

JJAGAINSI ALL THAT AND MUCH MORE, THE NEGROES ROSE UP

TODAY IN MORE INAN SIXIY CITIES. AND IT IS LOGICAL TO EXPECT NEW

PAGES

OF HEROISM. STOKELY CARMICHAEL, THE NEGRO LEADER, CAVE THIS

WARNING ONE DAY AFTER THE DEATH OF MARTIN LUTHER KING - JWHAT

HAPPENED ON THE NIGHT WE LEARNED OF THE ASSASSINATION OF DR. KING

IS NOTHING COMPARED TO WHAT IS GOING TO HAPPEN, ' JJ

RM GRANMA, O APRIL, PAGE 3 A SUTHE WIDOW OF LUTHER KING HEADS

THE MARCH IN MEMPHIS. ' THE ARIICLE TELLS ABOUT INE

MARCH AND

SHOWS PHOTOGRAPHS OF IT•

IM RADIO REBELDE NEWSCAST, I APRIL 1755 AOMO/ A JUA TENSE

CALM REIGNS. IN THE U.S, BUT IT IS A PRELUDE IO SERIOUS EVENTS*

NATIONAL MOURNING DECREED BY LYNDON JONNSON FOR YESIERDAY, U APRIL,

MARKS A LESSENING OF DEMONSTRATIONS WHICH ARE EXPECIED TO START UP

AGAIN AT ANY MOMENT.**

YM RADIO REBELDE NEWSCASI, 1 APRIL / 955 A.M. A SU JFORWARD

WITH BLACK POWER UNTIL CAPITALISI MISERY, INE FUNDAMENTAL CAUSE OF

HUMAN INJUSTICE, IS OVERTHROWN SAID THE SOCIALIST PARTY OF CHILE

IN A CABLEGRAM SENT TO THE AMERICAN NEGRO LEADER, STOKELY CARMICHAEL,

ON THE OCCASION OF THE ASSASSINATION OF MARTIN LUTHER KING. *®

UM RADIO LIBERACION; I APRIL /1236 P.M. / A THIS NEWSCAST

REFERS TO A DEMONSIRAIION IN WHICH 200 LATIN AMERICAN, ASIAN; AND

• AFRICAN SIUDENIS WERE SAID TO NAVE PARIICIPAIED IN FRONT OF THE

U,S. EMBASSY IN WARSAW, POLAND, AS A PROTEST OVER THE DEAIN OF

MARTIN LUTHER KING•

TELEPOUCH

PAGE TWO

---

## Page 25

13-00000,

TELEPOUCH

VIA TELEPOUCH

TELEPOUCH

FAGE

THREE

PAGE THREE

---

## Page 26

13-00000

3P

EGRET IRDEPOUCH

3117"

10338

ISP NO

- UFGA -29584

ILE NO

ATE

• NONE

- RO APRIL 1968

MIGROFILMED

NDEXING

∞ NONE

APR 1 6 1968

DOC. MICRO. SER.

I OR OF ILM

— NONE.

NFO

~ CHIEF, WH DIVISION.

- CHIEFS WH/COG - CHIEF, WOLIME

ROM

¡UBJECT

*COS, JUWAVE

-O SUMMARY OF CUBAN MEDIA TREATMENT OF DEATH OF MARTIN

LUTHER KING, JR., 1AO APRIL 1968

EFERENCE - UFGA-29877

IN ADDITION TO IHE SUMMARY OF CUBAN MEDIA COVERAGE OF THE

ARTIN LUTHER KING ASSASSINATION TRANSMIIIED IN REFERENCE, I-HE

'OLLOWING SUMMARY FOR 8-9 APRIL HAS BEEN FURNISHED BY INE AMOIS

01 GRANMA, O APRIL, PAGE ONE - JUMOBILIZATION OF 55, 000

ROOPS TO REPRESS THE NEGROES®" A THE ARTICLE REPORTED ALL THE

JISTURBANCES WHICH HAVE OCCURRED IN THE U.S, AS A RESULT OF THE

JEATH OF MARTIN LUTHER KING.

WM

GRANA, O APRIL, PAGE 3 A SUWITH IME ASSASSINATION OF

JARTIN LUTHER KING THE IDEOLOGY OF NON-VIOLENCE HAS DIED" A AN

INTERVIEW WITH FLOYD MCKISSICK, NATIONAL DIRECTOR OF THE

CONGRESS OF RACIAL EQUALITY /CORE/• JJINIS SIMPLY MEANS THAT

ION-VIOLENCE HAS CEASED AS A MEANS OF FIGHIING. THE PEOPLE

CANNOT BE TAUGHT TO BE NON-VIOLENT WHILE WE ARE INVOLVED IN

• VIOLENT WAR IN VIETNAM, NON-VIOLENCE CANNOT BE PREACHED TO

HE PLACK PEOPLE WHO HAVE TO FACE

VIOLENCE EVERY DAY ON THE

SIREETS OF THIS COUNTRY, THIS WAS SAID IN A TELEPHONE CONVERSA-

¡ION BETWEEN RADIO HABANA AND FLOYD MCKISSICK. WHEN ASKED ABOUT THE

*COSIOLE CONSEQUENCES OF INE ASSASSINATION OF KING, MCKISSICK RE-

REFEAT THAT WE ARE MANING NO FREDICIIONS, BUT INE

UFGA-29864 PAGE

ONE

Cown rad

Male

D1273.

$129-3

mat 2,78

9075424

-01221

GOld ALL CORT - 10

HOT NECEASE

6611991 1'1

- 125.

---

## Page 27

13-000.00

TELEPOUCH UFGA-29884 PASE TWO

¡MERICAN NEGRO IS NOT WILLING TO CONTEMPLAIE IMPASSIBLY IME ASSASSI

LATION OF OUR LEADERS, DUR HEROES, AND OUR PEOPLE. '

EM GRANNA, O APRIL, PAGE 3 A ARTICLE BY JUAN MARRENO ENTI-

ILED, SUTHE AMERICAN NEGKOES ARE WRITING THEIR FINEST PAGE OF

SEROISM,'" JUAGAINST ALL THAT AND MUCH MORE, THE NEGROES ROSE UP

•ODAY IN MORE THAN SIXTY CITIES. AND IT IS LOGICAL IO EXPECT NEW

AGES OF HEROISM, STOKELY CARMICHAEL, THE NEGRO LEADER, GAVE THIS

¡ARNING ONE DAY AFIER THE DEAIN OF MARIIN LUTHEN KING • JWHAT

APPENED ON THE NIGHT WE LEARNED OF THE ASSASSINATION OF DR. KING

IS NOTHING COMPARED TO WHAT IS GOING TO HAPPEN. ' JU

RM

GRANMA, O APRIL, PAGE 3 A JUTHE WIDOW OF LUTHER. KING HEADS

THE MARCH IN MEMPHIS," " THE ARTICLE TELLS ABOUT THE MARCH AND

SHOWS PHOTOGRAPHS OF IT.

IM RADIO REBELDE NEWSCAST, I APRIL 1755 A.MO/ A QUA TENSE

CALM REIGNS IN THE U.S, BUT IT IS A PRELUDE TO SERIOUS EVENIS.

NATIONAL MOURNING DECREED BY LYNDON JOHNSON FOR YESTERDAY, U APRIL,

MARKS A LESSENING OF DEMONSTRATIONS WHICH ARE EXPECTED TO START UP

AGAIN AT ANY MOMENI. "'

YM RADIO REBELDE NEWSCAST, 1 APRIL 1955 A.MOl A SU OFORWARD

WITH BLACK POWER UNTIL CAPITALISI MISERY, THE FUNDAMENTAL CAUSE OF

HUMAN INJUSTICE, IS OVERTHROWN' SAID THE SOCIALIST PARTY OF CHILE

IN A CABLEGRAM SENT TO THE AMERICAN NEGRO LEADER, STOKELY CARMICHAEL,

ON THE OCCASION OF THE ASSASSINATION OF MARTIN LUTHER KING.**

UM RADIO LIBERACION, I APRIL /1230 P.MO/ A THIS NEWSCAST

REFERS TO A DEMONSIRATION IN WHICH 200 LATIN AMERICAN, ASIAN, AND

AFRICAN STUDENIS WERE SAID TO HAVE PARTICIPAIED IN FRONT OF THE

U.S. EMBASSY IN WARSAW, POLAND, AS A PROTEST OVER THE DEATH OF

MARTIN LUTHER KING.

MARK F. EFFIELD

DISTRIBUTION

MIRROUCH VEGA -ZOSSA PAGE THO

---

## Page 28

13-00000

TELEPOUCK UFGA-29884 PAGE THREE

IA TELE POUCH

A C/WHO

A C/WH/COG

A C/HOLINE

SH21 TELEPOUCH UEGA-29854 PAGE THREE

IDENTIAL

---

## Page 29

13-00000

1321

---

## Page 30

13-00009NCLASSIFIED .

LI SECRET •

LITOE SECKET

1.

CONFIDENTIAL

• APPEALS REVIEW FORM

321

Tab -Z/contains Cable IMWAUE 2011

dated 12 APR68.

( ) Previously denied in toto under exemption (s)

of

( )

Segregable portions previously released;

excised portions exempted

under

0Q Located during the DDO appeals review.

( ) Referred to DDO for review by

3.

Further description, identification, comments, and/or referrals, etc.

4. I RECOMMEND:

5.

( ) Sustain initial denial in toto under exemption (s)

ADD exemption (s)

( ) DROP exemption (s)

of

( ) Sustain initial release of sanitized version with excised portions

exempted under

of

ADD exemption(s)

DROP exemption 5)

( ) Release additional information with excised portions exempted under

of

( ) Deny document in toto under exemption (s)

Release a sanitized version

E2(U(6213)

with excised

of

FOlE

The exemptions cited

of

portions exempted under

above

are being claimed to protect the following:

Information from a foreign liaison service

Information

pertaining to a foreign liaison relationship

Information which em kcould identify the source

Information pertaining to a source

Information pertaining to intelligence methods

Location

of CIA overseas

installation

Location

of unacknowledged domestic installation

Name

of CIA employee

File number

Pseudonym

Cryptonyms

Internal organizational data

Name

of FBI agent

FBI file number

Privacy of other individual

OTHER

6. COMMENTS and/or SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS.

During the DDO Classification review, this document which was marked

SECRET

maintained

classified

to

declassified

desensitized

¿' ungraded to ConfIdenteal

CONFIDENTIAL

SECRET

IMPOGT

CL

BY 012170

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 31

13-00000

C03.113

155 :."

FLE NO....

31

" DEF

f.iz

÷0

222931-

+4429 00

•::E.

3121717Z APA 63 CITED

70123303

APPROVED FOR RELEASE

Date 14-mar 1978

HAS JUST RETORTED

OF ENVELOPE MIIE REIGAN MOORESE

PAOY ECHEVARRIA, APARTADO SOIL HAVAVA", CONTAININS THO

1M115 INCH BLACK SHITE AND DED POSTERS FEATURING SLACK

FINTHER GITH LEGEND BLACK POGER" ENHIS OPEN MOUTH AND

FELOD 1D EN LARGE LETTERE STATEMENT "RETALIATION FOR CALIE:

-EVOLUTIONARY VIOLENCE" IN ENGLISH FOLLOWED SY APPARESTLY

ITE SIATEMENT IN SMALLER LETIERS IN SPAGISH, FRENCH AND.

14310:

FINALLY LETTERS "OSPAAAL" AT BOSTON OF FOSTER.

POSTERO MONE ACCOUPAMED EY MIMEOGAAPHES SHEET WITH FOLLERING

CATENENT: "ONTHE DOCASION OF DR. MASTIN LUTHER XING'E

AEORSSIGATIGH ME HAVE PUBLISHED A POSTER IHAT IS NOW SEING

TOMATOS AID GIER THE GORLD ME 4РЕ SENDING YOO& CERIN

COCO THEM CELERS GHICH AT HE USED 19 YOUR COUNTAI

11 CO10KE: 10 26 CaRED GO10 THIS REGARD,"

ARE ASTONISHED BY THE SPEED WITH WHICH

THESE POSTERS HRUE BEEN PREPARED AND RAILED. ENDELOPE LAS

RECEIVED IN

POSE OFFICE BOX IN WRICH NE NORMALLY

---

## Page 32

13-00000

PiloTard

water?

5

file

14010

6626231

COa;

F::E.

1106 2

OCTS VARIOUS CUBAN MAILINGS INCLUDING

ITEMS BUT THESE

HAVE ALWAYS BEEN VERY SLOW IN COMING AND HAVE USUALLY

OBVIOUSLY BEEN SEVERAL WEENS IN PREPARATION AND TRANSIT

IT HAS NOT-BEEN POSSIBLE TO ESTABLISH EXACT DATE OFERECEIPT

OF PRESSUE: ITEM BECAUSE

LAST SERVICED HIS P.O.

30X OUS APRIL. ENVELOPE BORE NO DATED POSTMARK, ONLY

ZIERE: "PORT PAYE! IN UPPER

RIGHT - HAND CORNERE

EAT&ANY

EVENT IT IS CLÜAR THAT IF POSTERS ARRIVED AT LATEST ON A1

SARILA IT TOOK CUSAYS LESS THAN A MERITO PREPARE OND MAIL

THEM TO U.S.

3.

whaT MaD.OF. COURSE OCCURRED TO

IS POSSI

BILITY THAT QUICK CUBAN PEAFORMARCE ON THUS SUBJECT MAY

INDICATE CUBRU COLLUSION IN ASSASSINATION OR ADVANCE KEGGLELSE

THAT IT WAS TO TAKE PLACEN

HE HAVE TOLD THEN INAT GE KNO&

OF NO DINER EVIDENCE TO LEND SUPPORT TO THIS ASSUMPIION.

THEE ARE CHECKING WITH OTHER LOCAL RECIRIENTE OF CUBAN PROPA-

CAAPA MATERIAL TO DETERAINE WETHER OTHER SUCH PAMPHLET

PACNAGES MALL ARRIVED HERE

T116%

AREMISS

: CONTACTING LOCAL

TO TOPORM THEM OF RECEIPT OF THIS MATERTAL.

---

## Page 33

13-00000

55.t2

0155EM 3,

F422

3

INDEX

CLASSE! TO

13s !

"wat

r..h

AE"

-.i.

FiLE.

50:53

FOU7:53 At.

0ES.R0r240

---

## Page 34

2822142.032

1/224

.. S,062882.2320603- --

CORIFIDENTIAL

27253

CONFIDG

TAL 5 121717Z APA SS GITL ANNAVE 2011

PRIORITY

DIRECTOR

12000390304

TYRIC ANСARЗОN

LA ANCARSON-S HAD JURT TSEDATEO TO DIATION RECEIPT

S1 M18 CALLAGUE, ANCARASAD, Or COVETE C17N ALIShA 465tz6

"RANDY EGAAVARNIA, APARTADO QUE MAVOR, DONTAINING INS

ARIS INCH GLACK SHITE ANDED PISTERS FEATURIOS SLACK

FANTURA MITA LESSND "BLACK POGA" IN HIS OPEN NOOTH AND

GLOD IT A LARGE LETTERS STATEMAND RETALIATION FOR CALIE:

AEVOLUTIUVARY VIOLENCE IN LUGLISH FOLLOSES BY APPARENTAY

RADE STATONENT IN SMALLER LATTERG IN SEAWIGH, FRENCH ADD

1A218

FINALLY LETTERS "OSPAAAL" AT BOTTOM OF FOSSER,

PORTERS GONE ACCOAPANISS SY MINBOGAAPGED 3065T #ITH FOlLiLIG

STATANNE: DO THE OSCAGION OF GAO MANTID LARGE MIND'S

A33a501÷ATIO3 02 RaVE POoLISHaL A FOSTEN THAT 12 A0D BEING

1293

9560

Downgraded to

by authorite.of 00

date

CTACULATODAL GUDA TUB WORLD: GO ARE CORRIDE YOU A CERTA

ATE COURT TOLD CRATE DO 10 Th К66A0."

WEll And datondent the Seed Win caled

Milained have peak enapade do illite arealone ind

CLACSIFICATION REVIEN

CONDUCTED ON /5 maR78

I IMPOET GI OVED 95.

EULL TEXT COPY - DO NOT RELEASE

---

## Page 35

13-00000

1/2026

....)

STOP TAD Sorr

FIR 61D

Carr

2.9a2a 9Y

F::E.

TO

wHY.

2902215

D55160s1099

PAGE & JAWAVE 2017 5 5

CRET

SETS VARIOUS CUEAN MAILLIGS INCLUDING LASO ITEMS BUT THESE

HAVE

ALWAYS BEEN VERY SLOW IN COMING AND HAVE USUALLY

OBVIOUSLY BEEN SEVERAL WESKS IN PREPARATION AND TRANSIT.

intran

IT WAS NOT BEEN POSSIBLE TO ESTABLISH EXACT DATE OF RECEIPT

OF PRESENT ITEM BECAUSE AMCARBON-I WAS IN DAMANAS COVERING

ELECTION FROM 9 THRU SO APRIL AND LAST SERVICED HIS POO.

SON OU B APRILO ENVELOPE BORE NO. DATED POSIMARK,. OOLY

SIERE: "PORT PAYE" IN UPPER RIGHT-HARU CORNERE

AT ANY

SVENT IT IS CLEAR INAT IF POSIERS ARRIVED AT LATEST OU JI

ARIL, ET JOOK CUBANS LESS INAN A WEEK TO PREPARE AND MAIL

THE 10 U.6.

MILITY THAP MICH CHAN FIAPOMRAGCE DO T.: 1S0B180T HA:

IDICATE CUBAN COLLUSION IN ASSASSIDATION OR NOVAGOS MOSLEUSE

THAT IT UNG ID TAKE PLACE 1E GAUD TOLD THEN THAT DE MUCH

SO NO DINER EVIDENGE IS LIND SUPPORT TH TA13 ASSCAPTIO.

ACH ARE CHECKING ME HOTHER LOCAL SEPITE S7 CIBAN PROPE

....?.

....

at loader cros

THEY GREMISS

chilli mie

-: -.---.....

---

## Page 36

13-00000

2204162267

Paramed on's curiouril.

82222321

CONFIDENTIAL

irr .......

PACE JIANG 2017 CONFIDENTIAL

•. JULY JAWAVE TRACE ON 1200Y ECHAVARAIG INDICATES

LET AD A MAIL ADDRESS FOR PROSIPS AND SENDING OR SEAS

PRAINE PROPACANDA

G00441

---

## Page 37

13-00000

322

---

## Page 38

13-00000

322

102-53 contains

CABLE

APPEALS REVIEW FORM

IN 90561

INWAVE 2022

dated

12 Apr. 1968.

) Located during the DDO appeals review.

) Referred to DDO for review by

urther description, identification, comments, and/or roferrals, etc.

RECOMMEND:

) Sustain initial denial in toto under exemption (s)

of

( )

ADD exemption (s)

( ) DROP exemption (5)

) Sustaln initial release of sanitized version with excised portions

exempted under

( ) ADD exenption(s)

( ) DROP exemption (s)

additional

information with excised portions exempted under

) Deny document in toto under exemption (s)

of

Release

a sanitized version with excised portions exempted under

he exemptions cited above are being clained to protect the following:

Information frun a foreign liaison service

)

Informat lon pertaining to a foreign liaison relationship

Information which would/could identify the source

Information pertaining to a source

Information pertaining to intelligence methods

Location

Of CIA overscas installation

Location

Name

ot unacknowledged domestic installation

Of CIA employee

File number

Pseudonym

CryptonymS

Internal organizational data

Name

of FBI agent

FBI file number

Privacy of other individual

OTHER

OMMENTS and/or SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS.

uring the DO classification review, this document which wus marked

- SECRET

was:

maintained

classified to

Acclassified

dependitirod

i downeraded to

confidential

1:2

C1. liY 01217!

---

## Page 39

300000 RETARIAT DISSEMINATION

PERSON/UNIT NORFIES

-LASSIFIED MESSARE TOTAL COPES L21

YOUTING ANDHORS

BALS- SEEN aY

2

¡ ADVANCE COPY

ISSUED

SLOTTED

AT:

26

DISSEM BY

ACTION

PER

CORY

REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPT PROMIBITEO

INDEX: D YES D NO

CLASSIFY TO FILE NO...

K-REF

TO FILE NO..

FILE

INFO:

0 рет. то

FILE,

VA.

10

BRANCH DJ

DESTROY DJ SIG.

122103Z APR

68 CITE

Kod 4 Dee 68

DIRECTOR

IN CONNECTION WITH CUBAN

POSTERS REPORTED IN

MAILING OF BLACK POWE

CAN 605A

SEE ALSO SHIPMENT ON

7 REPEAT 7 APRIL CI.E., 3 DAYS AFTER DR KING"S ASSASSINA-

TION) MENTIONED IN

BT

APPROVED FOR RELEASE

Date Z Mcul/978

(53)

---

## Page 40

13-00000

3

+4594-5==0ien

L91

SPEE TO ME IO

1221652 APR 65

4D1'68

1213NS0S6T

DIRECTOR

IN CONMECTION WITH CUSAL MAILING OF BLACK POVER

POSTERS REPORTED

... SEE ALSO SHIPMENT ON

TREPEAT 7 APRIL CI•E", 3 DAYS AFIER DR

KING'S ASSASSINA

IICS) MENPIONED

BI

Preciousl

A APPROVED FOR RELEASE

Date 19. AUG 1975

$3

---

## Page 41

CO-Y

slorreo

CHON ỐF THIS COPY

CLASSIE TO FIC

REE TO FILE

PHENED

10

26

WHA

0/4 2

COMBERTET 1221032NAPR1O8 CUTE UNWAVE

2022

XIRECT OR.

APOK TYRI CHERPERUSAL AMCARBON

ENO CONNECTATON WITH CUBAN MAN 4O OF SLACK POWER

OSTERS REPORTED IN UNWAVE 20171 SEE ALSO SHIPMENTION A

REPEAT 7 APRIL CI-E,I3 DAYS AFTER DR KING'S ASSASSINA-

HON AGENT TONED LA 3YO/CUP/1.397-63

&BT

DESTROY I SIG

/Fila 4,

CCA 3 ech

12AR0m9056Y

53

Howngraded.

date!

FULL TENT COPY NO NOR RELEASE

2, ma281

- 81290095804

SECRET

---

## Page 42

13-00000

TARt 321

---

## Page 43

13-OPOPRiLASSIAIED :

DO CUNFIUENILAL

WTON SECRET

323

APPEALS REVIEW FORM

76

contains SABLE

90377

ONWAVE 3009

dated 12 Apr. 63

( ) Previously denied in toto under exemption (s)

of

( ) Sogregable portions

previously released; excised portions exempted

under

Do Located during the DoO appeals review.

() Referred to Dho for review by

Further description, identification, comments, and/or referrals, etc.

Goerstand dising

Appended persiser.

I RECOMMEND:*

Sustain initial denial in toto under exemption(s)

ADD exemption (s)

0f

() Sustain initial release

exempted under

of sanitized version with excised portions

DROP exemption (s)

() Release additional infornation with excised portions exempted under

( ) Deny docunent in toto under exemption (s)

of

Release a sanitized version

with excised portions exempted under

(5)(0(613)

F0m

The exemptions cited above are being claimed to protect the following:

InFormation Fron a

foreign liaison service

Information

pertaining

to a foreign liaison relationship

Information

which would/could identify the source

Infornation pertaining to a source

Information pertaining

to intelligence nethods

Location

overseas installation

Location

of unacknowledged domestic installacion

Name

of CIA employee

File number

Pseudonym

Internal organizational data

Name

Of FBI agent

FBI file number:

Privacy of other individual

OTHER

COMMENTS and/or SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS.

During the DDO classification roview, this document which was marked

25

SECRET

NOS:

wisified to

Acnesified

dcumsitizod

do graded to Condidentre

(X) CONFIDENTIAL

17 SECRET

82

IMPDET

CL BY 012170

17 TOP SECRET

---

## Page 44

00000•

SECHECARIAL DISLEMENARDN

UNIT MOTIFIED

SLOTIID

REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITEO

YES O NO

CLASSIFY TO FILE NO ..

X-HEF

TO FILE NO.

FILi

INF5

О мет. то

FILE:

BRANCH D

DESTRON (1 BIG.

1121438Z APR 68 CITE

-T ZAPR 68 IN 90377

DIRECT OR

HAS HADI

¡PREPARE TWO SUMMARIES OF

CUBAN' REGIME COVERAGE OF MARTIN LUTHER KING ASSASSINATION

DE RESULTANT DISTURBANCES THROUGH & APRIL SENT TELEPOUCH AS

WE WILL NOW DISCONTINUE THIS

OBERT ING UNLESS THERÉ IS A CONTINUED HOS DESIRE TO RECEIVE II.

EASE ADVISE.

BT

APPROVED FOR RELEASE

Date

1. Mark 1278

---

## Page 45

13

d000

GON TREE

iSSUED

SLOTTED

das toy coursel

CISE BEINAL

GROUP i

Passi dey patalie

MGGY8.9

REPROOUCTION OF THISCOE DOMIniTED

INDEX: * I: YES

D: No

6

10

₴

CLASSIFY TO FILE NO.

X-HEF TO FILE NO.:.

FILE RIO, O RET. TO

INFO:

FILE,

- VR.

BRANCHL

WH8

DESTROY DISIg.,

Eh, CAS

CONE RENTSAE 121438ZMAPR 68, CITE IMWAVE 2009

DIRECT OR

TYPIC

-1Z APR 68 W 90377

STATION HAS HAD AMOTS PREPARE TWO SUMMARIES OF

CUBAN REGIME COVERAGE OF MARTIN LUTHER KING ASSASSINATION

AND RESULTANT DISTURBANCES IHROUGH 9 APRIL SENT TELEPOUCH AS

UGA -29877 AND UFGA-29884.

WE WILL NOW DISCONTINUE THIS

REPORTING UNLESS THERE IS A CONTINUED HQS DESIRE TO RECEIVE IT.

PLEASE ADVISE.

1 BT

EILE. TEXT COPY - DO NOT, RELEASE

CLASSINSATION REVIERY

2 MADET CLaY 009560

012923

CONFIDENTIA

Downgraded to

Dy authoriti of 0023601012913

28

CROSS FILE COPH FOR

202- CS32132

DO NOX DESTROY

EULL JEXT COPY - DO NOT RELEASE

---

## Page 46

13-00000

---

## Page 47

13-00000

APPEALS REVTEW FOKM

324

Berline 2149

' 254 contains

CABLE

#N 92216

dated 15 Apr. 1968.

/ Proviously deniod in toto under exemption (s)

of

¡ segregable portions pr b(a)

(Bileased;.

excised portions exempted

of FOLA

) Located during the DDO appeals review.

/ Referred to 0DO for review hy

rther description, identification, comments, and/or referrals, etc.

RECOMMEND:

) Sustain initial denial in toto under exemption(s)

ADD excuption (s)

of

)

Sustain initial release of sanitized version with excised portions

exempted under

) ADD exemption (s)

( ) DROP exemption (s)

$ Release

additionnl information with excised portions exempted under

(BI (513) 161162

oF 7012

). Deny document In loto under exemption (s)

of

) Release a sanitized version with excised portions exempted under

of

le exemptions cited above are being claimed to protect the following:

Information fron i foreign liaison service

InFormatlon pertaining

to a foreign liaison relationship

Information which a

/could identify the source

Information pertaining to a source

• InFormatlon

pertaining to intelligence methods

Locations of CIA overseas installations

Location

Name

of unacknowledged domestic installation

of CIA employee

File number/Per

Pseudonym

Cryptonymg

Internal orgunizational data

Name

of FBI agent

FBI File number

Privacy of other individual s

OTHER

NMENTS and/OT SPECIAL INSTRUCTALI

SECRET

¿ mainsained

classitied to

declassified

descuritized

downgraded to

confidentist

1:?

CR. BY

012170

pose career name

---

## Page 48

13-00000

SECHETAHIAT DISSEMINATION

OF INTALS - SEEN DY.

SLOTTED

cOpy

REPRODUCTION DE THIS COPY PROFISITEO

INDER 0O YES 0 1O

CLABDIFY TO FILE NO.

K-PEP TÓ FILE NO..

Плявт. то

INFO:

FILE.

FPECEDENCE

BRANCH D

15ÂN S N 21 6

A151351Z APR 68 CITE

ECTOR INFO

70597

B DIRECIOR 49260

1. AMERIÇAN INVOLVEMENT IN ANTI-VIETNAM WAR

AMITIES IN WEST BERLIN HAS CONTINUED SINCE REF A•

ABERS OF US CAMPAIGN CONTINUE TO CARRY OUT

BIR "ACTION NIGHT LIFE," ENTERING GI BARS AND

SING QUT LEAFLETS ENCOURAGING AND OFFERING

SESTANCE FOR DESERIION...

CAMPAIGN MEMBERS CITE

ATIVE" RESULTS IN FACT THAI GI'S WILLING IO

WITH THEM AND TO PASS LEAFLEIS ON TO OTHER

IDIERS. CAMPAIGN HAS POINTED OUT TO NON-AMERICAN

ICIPANTS INTERESTED IN "ACTION" THAT THEY MAY

CONTACI SOLDIERS THROUGH US ARMY'S COMMUNITY

ANNA PERIE

(X)

APPROVED FOR RELEASE

Date 14 M6N 1978

324

---

## Page 49

13-00000

CRETAHAT DISTTMINATION

ST711.7)

CLASSHED MESSAGE

701L COmES

F. 2. OTHER RELATED US CAMPAIGN PLANS INCLUDED

ETING WITH LOCAL FULBRIGHT SCHOLARS IN HOPE OF

POACHING THEM ABOUT VIEINAM WAR, THE POLITICAL

UATION IN BERLINg. DRAFI AND FULBRIGHI PROGRAM

ELF. IT IS NOT KNOWN WHETHER IHIS MEETING EVER

KI PLACE. CAMPAIGN IS ALSO PLANNING THEATER

MENING, TENTATIVELY SCHEDULED FOR 20 APRIL, ARI

GLION AND SIMILAR

EVENIS, PROCEEDS FROM WHICH

SUPPOSED TO GO TO VIET CONG.

"RADICAL LEFT ELEMENT IN BERLIN STAGED

APRIL DEMONSIRATION MARCH ON RATHAUS SCHOENEBERG

WAKE OF DR. KING'S ASSASSINATION. IN VIEW OF THE

¿SASSINATION ATTEMPT ON LEFTIST STUDENT LEADER

UDI DUISCHKE ON 11 APRIL STUDENI ATIENIIONS

OVER

SEEN DY

IS SUEO

LISLOTTED

FILE.

DOUCTION OF THIS CONT PHOMIRIED

INDEX:

YEs • 0 10

CLASSIFY TO FILE HO..

X-REF TO FILE NO.

DRET, TO

VA

GRANCHD

---

## Page 50

6000

** GUCROTAMAL OISIEMNALION

ТАЛА СIN•4

ICE COPY

SLOTTEO

REPRODUCTION DF THIS COPY PRONIEITED

INDEX: D YES E] NO

CLASSIFY TO FILE NO.

X-REE TO

FILE NO.

FILE

INFO:

I RET. TO

FILE.

VR.

BRANCHO

PAGE

WEEKEND CENTERED ON FURTHER ATTACKS ON SPRINGER

PROPERTY AND DEMONSTRATIONS IN DOWNTOWN WEST

BERLIN.

BT

*I EN IIY

10

DESTROY SIG.

---

## Page 51

00000-81

1515512 APR

EB DIRECIO?

29232

15138094215

- Tan

Dale ns net 51

---

## Page 52

13-00000

AGI

• RADICAL LEFT ELEMENT IN BERLIN STAGED-

•7."

S-APRIL DEMONSTRATION MARCH ON RATHAUS SCHOENEBERG

•&g.

I3: WAKE OF DR. KING'S ASSASSINATION.

•IN VIEW OF

THE

ASSASSINATION ATTEMPT ON LEFTISI STUDENT LEADER

AUDI QUISCHKE ON 11 APRIL; STUDENT AITENTIONS OVER

ind at let

---

## Page 53

13-00000

18.02

PAGE: 3

WEEKEND CENTERED ON FURINER AFTACKS ON SPRINGER

• PROPERTY AND DEMONSTRATIONS IN DOUNTOWN

WEST

BERLIN.

---

## Page 54

13-00000

"STILE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

MASON UNITOTED

- 1 ASSIFIED MESSAGE

TOTAL COPIES

OUTINT AND/OR INITIALS - SEEN PSY

1212

161 strain

Chino

REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHISITED

•IVANCELORY

ISSUES

SLOTTEO

INDEX:

D YeS LINO

AT:

WiFER

ITION

c/is

z

C/

3

LX

RIO COPY

CLASSIFY TO FILE NO.

FRECEDENCE

X-HEF TO FILE NO.-

FILE RIO CIRET.-TO •

BRANCH D

INFO:

FILE.

MA DEL, DILCI, DDP, CARE EYES

ONA

C/FI, C/EUR 2

15 AM SON 9 1 21 6

SUNHUEAR TAL 151351Z APR 68 CITE BERLIN 2149 SHIBBERT ACTING>

DIRECTOR INFO BONN

RYBAT MHPASHA

REF A BERLIN 1812 IN

70597

B DIRECIOR 49260

1o AMERIÇAN INVOLVEMENT IN ANTI-VIETNAM WAR

ACTIVITIES IN WEST BERLIN HAS CONTINUED SINCE REF A•

MEMBERS OF US CAMPAIGN CONTINUE TO CARRY OUT

THEIR "ACTION NIGHT LIFE," ENTERING GI BARS AND

PASSING OUT. LEAFLETS ENCOURAGING AND OFFERING

ASSISTANCE FOR DESERTION. CAMPAIGN MEMBERS CITE

"POSITIVE" RESULSTS IN FACT THAI GI'S WILLING TO

TALK WITH THEM AND IO PASS LEAFLEIS ON TO OTHER

SOLDIERS®

CAMPAIGN HAS POINTED OUT TO NON-AMERICAN

PARTICIPANIS INTERESTED IN "ACTION" THAT THEY MAY

AASO CONTACI SOLDIERS THROUGH US ARMY'S COMMUNITY

RELATIONS OFFICE. US CAMPAIGNERS KEITH CHAMBERLAIN

Downgraded to

CONFIDENTIAL

AND PETER STANDISH WERE INVITED TO SPEAK AT

120102

151929

23 MARCH VIETNAM RALLY AND CHOSE AS THEME "HISTORY

F AMERICAN INVOLVENENT IN VIEINAM. " THEY

C: A331

F:3M- NEViSW

FULL TEXT COPY - DO NOT RELEASE

us Cuper

come.

CROUTE: 5: 28704-1228

MIN/OUT CL EY 00/82

ENTIAL:

i in thing

---

## Page 55

13-00.000:

"'IE SECRETARLAT DISSEMINATION

"ON/UNIT NI TIPIES

MINCE COPY

ISSUED

SLOTTEO

HON

CLASSITIFE MESSAGE

-Tom: Coes

по: я : 1.

REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED

INDEX:

YES • C] NO

CLASSIFY TO FILE NO...

X-REF TO FILE NO.

FILE RIO CRET. TO

¡NiFO:

FILE.

VA.

HOUTINE AND/OR INITIALS : SEEN DY

BRANCH O

DESTROY DI SIG.

PAGE 2 BERLIN 2149 SCONFIDENITAL

COORDINATED THEIR REMARKS WITH CAMPAIGN LEADER

FRANCIS FULLER AND MEMBERS DAVID HARRIS AND SAM

maine.

WEBER. CHAMBERLAIN ALSO ACCOMPANIED RUDI DUTSCHKE

TU PRAGUE IN LATE MARCH FOR MEETING OF THIRD

CHRISTIAN PEACE CONFERENCE.

OTHER RELATED US CAMPAIGN PLANS INCLUDED

MEETING WITH LOCAL FULBRIGHT SCHOLARS IN HOPE OF

APPROACHING THEM ABOUT VIETNAM WAR, THE POLITICAL

SITUATION IN BERLIN, DRAFT AND FULBRIGHT PROGRAM

ITSELF. IT IS NOT KNOWN WHETHER THIS MEETING EVER

TOOK PLACE. CAMPAIGN IS ALSO PLANNING THEATER

EVENING, TENTATIVELY SCHEDULED FOR 20 APRIL, ART

AUCIION AND SIMILAR EVENIS, PROCEEDS FROM WHICH

ARE SUPPOSED TO GO'TO VIET CONG.

3.. RADICAL LEFT ELEMENT IN BERLIN STAGED

6 APRIL DEMONSIRATION MARCH ON RAIMAUS SCHOENEBERG

IN WAKE DF DR. KING'S ASSASSINATION. IN. VIEW OF THÉ

ASSASSINATION ATTEMPT ON LEFTIST STUDENI LEADER

RUDI DUTSCHKE ON 11 APRIL, STUDENT ATIENTIONS OVER

CSEGRET*

---

## Page 56

13-00000

& SECRETA AT DISSEMINATIO

FINIT ROTT

++8180019750A0if

Ton coris:

AN ALyON INDIANS 1640 DK

INCE COPY

ISSUED

SLOTTEO

• 5M BY

TOM

RID CORY

REPRODUCTION OF THIS COMY PROMIBLTEO

INDEX: O YeS O NO

CLASSIFY TE FILE PO

X-HEF TO FILE NO..

FILE ND DIRET. TO

INFO:

FILE.

BRANCHO

DESTROY 0] SIG

PAGE 3 BERLIN

2149 CENFIDENTIAL

WEEKEND CENTERED ON FURTHER ATTACKS ON SPRINGER

PROPERTY AND DEMONSTRATIONS IN DOWNIOWN WEST

BERLIN.

SOBETTE

BI

C/S Comment: *Reported activities of Americans in anti-Vietnam

activity.

**Hgs participating in survey of international

connections of anti-Vietnam war movement in U.S.

---

## Page 57

13:00000

-

FSES

JFK IS

F3

---

## Page 58

13-00000

335

IN 91393

Tub

6:65 contains Cable Ded City 5.210.

dated: 15 apr. 68

2. IS Previously denied in toto under exemption (s)(6(1)

of E01

( ) Segregable portions previously released;

excised

portions exempted

under

( ) Located during the DDO appeals review.

( ) Referred to DDO for review by

3.

Further description, identification, comments, and/or referrals, etc.

B. I RECOMMEND:

Sustain initial denial in toto under exemption (s) (6J (6)(3) of F01

ADD exemption (s)

DROP exemption(s)

()

Sustain initlal release of sanitized version with excised portions

exempted under

DROP exemption (s)

( ) Release additional information with excised portions exempted under

(" Deny document in toto under exemption (s)

of

() Release a sanitized version with excised portions exempted under

• 5.

The exemptions cited above are being claimed to protect the following:

Information from a foreign liaison service

Information pertaining

to a foreign

liaison relationship

Information which m/could identify the source

Information pertaining to a source

Infornation pertaining to intelligence methods

Location

of CIA overseas installation

Location

Name

of acknowledged domestic installation

of CIA enployee

File number

Pseudonym

Cryptonym

Internal organizational data

Name

of FBI agent

FBI file number

Privacy of other individual

OTHER

6.

COMMENTS and/ox SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS:

7.

During the DDO classification review, this document which was marked

SECRET

maintained

classified

to

declassified

desensitized

¿ compraded to

L. CONFIDENTTAL

X SI CRET

E2

IMPOET

CL

BY 012170

I.7 TOP SECRET

---

## Page 59

13-00000

ECPERAPIAT DISSErVATION

"SERENES

68-85

15:0110

•ES:SED BESEAGE

SECRET

Tora: Comes &

GROUP!

! When Filled in!

REPPORECHION OF THIS COPY PROMIGITED

IDEK

v25

T.:o

CLNSB.FY 1O FILE 10..

'ENG ANO/OR INITIALS - SEEN INY

NeHa

Desrsor lisio.

[XI

ACCODY

EYES.

1520157

APR

68

R

CITE MEXICO CITY 5210

156n60 6 31 39 2

IREOT CR

HALPHA

IF: DIRECTOR-89694

1. UITEMPO-?2, ON I2 APRIL 1953, PROVIDED FOLLOWING REPORIS

LATING TO REFERENCE:

2: THE EXECUTIVE SECRETARIAT OF INE AFRO-ASIAN LATIN AMERI

IN PEOPLE'S SOLIDARITY ORGANIZAI IONCAALAPSO) IN HAVANA, DIRECIED

- 1 100 00 • same

RAMON ECHAVARRIA, IS SENDING TO MEXICAN COMMUNISIS LARGE BLACK

VER" POSTERS, WITH CAPIION "RETALIATION TO CRINE: REVOLUTIONARY

JENCE,* IN ENGLISH, FRENCH, SPANISH AND ARABIC, ACKNOWLEDGE-

IT 0F RECEIPI OF THIS MATERIAL IS TO BE MADE TO MAOSVALDO

MEDES ALVAREZ, SIBISKE NANESTI, COLE BUBENEG, PRAGUE, CZEGHOSLO-

XIA: POUCHING COPIES OF POSTER:

IS. THE INDEPENDENT FEASANIS: CENTRAL LOCIO, ON STAPRIL,

HESSED LETTER TO PRESIDENT LYNDON E. MOHNSON, PROTESTING

LUST INE ASSASSINATION OF MARTIN LUTHER KING, ATIRIBUTING TI

F8 AGGRESSIVE AND FASCISI POLICIES OF U.S. GOVERNOENT. LETTER

SOS ALSO AN END TO THE WAR IN VIETNAMO

SECRET

FULL TEXT COPV = DO NOT RELEAS

CLASSIFICATION REVISW

65

212923

---

## Page 60

13-00000,m

---

## Page 61

13-00009 UNGLASSIFIED. 1X1 CONFIDENTIAL

SECRET

WHILI TOP SECRET.

APPEALS REVIEW FORM

326

1. Tab Q-73 contains

_B - 58

dated 18 GpN 6.8

2.

Do Previously denied in toto under exemption (s) (8(11(6/3)

0f F016

( ) Segregable portions previously released;

under

excised portions exempted

( ) Located during the DDO appeals review.

( ) Referred to DDO for review by

3.

further description alde ificate caentle do referransean.

4. I RECOMMEND:

( ) Sustain initial denial in toto under exemption (s)

of

( ADD exemption(s)

( ) DROP exemption (s)

( ) Sustain

initial release of sanitized version with excised portions

exempted under

( ) ADD exemption(s

• ) DROP exemption(s)

( ) Release additional information with excised portions exempted under

() Deny document in toto under exemption (s)

of

Release

sanitized version with excised portions exempted under

042(0(61/3)

FOCA

5. The exemptions cited

above are being claimed to protect the following:

Information from a foreign liaisón service

Information pertaining

; to a foreign

relationship

Information which would/could identify the source

Information pertaining to a source

Information pertaining

to intelligence methods

Location

of CIA overseas

installation

Location

of unacknowledged domestic installation

of CIA employee

File number

Pseudonym

Cryptonym

Internal

organizational data

Name

OF FBI

agent

FBI file number

Privacy of other individual

OTHER

6. COMMENTS and/or SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS.

7.

During the DDO classification review, this document which was marked

SECRE

maintained

classified to

declassified

desensitived

dovagraded to corfidentite

UNCLASSIFIED

-ad.

CONFIDENTIAL

SECRET

62

IMPDE1

CL, BY

012170

.TOP SECRET

---

## Page 62

13-00000F3

B-88

18 APR 1968

SUBJECT:

Investllation us inach of lartin Luther king, Jurios

Your Dureau to, resentative int

our repr sour ture with essentate notorans of the aspected

Chechs lur rersons ances ma to poserble the comosite

¡hotographs wore negativo

1968 an unidentiEded

Whits now

the description aid not fit either the conjosite thotograph or

the descriition groviced by your Burcau reuresertatue.

However, our reprcaentative gaosed copiese

to your purces, cersenentetive with the notatton that he dia not

APPROVED FOR RELEASE

Date 14 hier 1876

A.73

811-0532730

---

## Page 63

13-00000

BASIC

PROJECT:

None

LIAISON: None

* (IN 93087)

18 april 1968

Distribution:

Urig En

1

sate

2

Reperal, Sureau of Investigation

20408327352

---

## Page 64

13-00000

CONFIDENTIAL

B-88

18 APR 1968

UBJDeis Investitution of cath of Martin auther king, durios.

1.

Your Bureau rcircaintativo ir Mexico City provided

our representative with

comostle photogra ho of the suspected

Alllor of Martin Luther Fing,

Jr, and acked

for a check against

visitors to the soviet and Cuban imbassics in Nexico City

during the recent nonths.

Checks for persons arcaring to resenble the comjosite

¡hotographs were negative at

both Inbassies.

on 30 January

unidentified white male visited the

Soviet Entassy but

the description die not fit eithor the composite photograph or

the descrition troviced by your

Eurcau Iopresentative.

However, our rerIcsentative passed cojies. of

the rhotograghs

to your

Bureau refronentative with

the notation that he did not

appear to be

Bureau susiect

tive further stipuláted that any use of the photograghs in en

Investigation should not roval thet the ¡hotographa wore made.

In Mexico or by this Cffice.

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW

CONDUCTED ON 1A1-9e1978

B INPOET CL 8: 095*60 -

12713

Downgraded to GUNFIDENTIAL

1 authority of 023 00$ 1271

date.

27242

248

FULL TEXT COPY - DO NOT RELEASE

Exchided tom Aunt

dra1.r200g8.

CONFIDENTIAL

201-0532757

---

## Page 65

13-00000 a

i.

SANFRENTAL

- 2 =

BASIC : MEXICO CIty 5247. (IN 93037)

PROJECT:

Nont

LIAISON:

None

WH/ 1

18 April 1968

Distribution:

0r1g & 1

- Federal Bureau of Investigation

2 - CI/OPS/LO

1

1H/1/ Chrono

1 • C/VH/FI

CONERENTIAL

SEC

201-0832357

---

## Page 66

kid: 00000/81

---

## Page 67

13-00000 NGLASSIFIED CONFLUENTIAL TA

_ SECKEI

L TUP SECRET

1.

2.

APPEALS REVIEW FORM

32%

Tab

2-74 contains

Memo 3-97

dated 25 Opril 68.

I Previously denied in toto under exemption(s) (SAULtS/S) of EDiA.

( ) Segregable portions previously released; excised portions exempted

under

( ) Located during the DDO appeals review.

( ) Referred to DDO for review by

3. Further description,

I RECOMMEND:

( ) Sustain initial denial in toto under exemption (s)

ADD exemption (s)

0f

( ) DROP exemption (s)

( ) Sustain initial release of sanitized version with excised portions

exempted under

( ADD exemption (s)

( ) DROP exemption (s)

( ) Release additional information with excised portions exempted under

( ) Deny documerit in toto under exemption (s)

of

(A Release a

sanitized version with excised portions exempted under

(0X01013186162

of FOLA

The exemptions cited above are being claimed to protect the following:

Information from a foreign liaison service

Information which would/could identify the source

Information pertaining to a source

Information pertaining to intelligence methods

Location of CIA overseas installation

Location

of unacknowledged domestic installation

Name

of CIA

employee

File number

Pseudonym

Cryptonym

Internal organizational data

Name

of FBI agent

FBI file number.

Privacy of other individual

OTHER

6. COMMENTS and/or SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS.

7.

During the DDO classification review, this document which was marked

SECRET

maintained

classified to

declassified

desensitized

Is dongraded to Confidential

UNCHASSIFIED

CONFIDENTIAL

SECRET

82

IMPDET

CL BY 012170

TOP SECRET

Retre s5ls

---

## Page 68

1500008*

3 - 97

25 ARTES

SUBJLCI: Investigation of beath of Martin Luther king. I.

reference is made to our memorandum of 18 april

19t8 which advined.

that ous sopresentative in

hau

passed.

be an unidentified imeri

can

who visited the

2=

Forwarded herewith are

passed to your bureau apresentative.

is noted in our 10

bell meno, these

here passed to your Bu{eäu refIe

sentative with the notation that they ald not appear to le

identical with the Bureau's suspect.

The Subject or the

attached photos was described as 22-27 years of age, apyrox1-

mately 5 fCet 9 inches to 5 feet 11 inches in height, weight,

aproximatcly 175 pounds, light brown hair. and slightly

ruddy complexion.

marabe used mathe

As noted it our as

spril memo sandum

caressaot

APPROVED FOR RELEASE

Date 1C/ tet 1978

APPROVED FOR RELEASE

Date 14 tet/978

8: 0537137

---

## Page 69

13-00000

BASIC I

PROJECI:

25 AprIt 1968

Distribution!

- 1.

2

1

federal

of Investigation

261÷0832132

285

---

## Page 70

13-00000;

LGNFIDENTAREM

B-97

8G AH T68

SUBJECI:

Investigation of beath of liartin Luther ling. JI.

reference is made to our memorandum of 18 april

1968 which advised that our roprosentative in Mexico Cliy

hai passed copies of photographs of

an unidentified American

who visited the joviet bibassy in Mexico City-

2. furwarded herewith are copies of the phutographs

passed to your Bureau representative.

is noted in our 18

April memo,

sentative

these photos were passed to your bureau regre

with the notation that they diù not appear to be

identical with

the Bureau's suspect.

The subject of the

attached photos was described as 22-27 years of age, aproxi

mately 5 {Cot 9 inches to 5 feet 11 inches in height, weight,

approximately 175 pounds, light brown hair, and slightly

ruddy complexion.

is not connected in any way with this office, and it is not

revealed that the photographs were made in Mexico.

GONFINTATIRO

Downgraded lo

0 095608 1281=

y aut 93at-1978

date. -

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW

CONDUCTED ON 97 06 1928

ZE IMPDET CL BY O23 BO

1413

CONFOENTAT

FULL TEXT CONY - DO AT :

3-0332%32

2857

---

## Page 71

13-00000

80 108 3 08603

_ 2 -ANNETENTAN

BASIC : 8

HMMA= 34503

PROJECIS LIONION

25 AprIL 1968

Distributiong

federal. Bureau of Investigation

CI/OPS/DO

CONFIDENTIAL-

2010832132

285.

---

## Page 72

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 73

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 74

13-00000

---

## Page 75

13-00000.

an overse

---

## Page 76

13-0000

---

## Page 77

13.00000

---

## Page 78

13-00000

---

## Page 79

13-00000

* LIED

CONFIDENTIAL

SECRET

L TOP SECRET

APPEALS REVIEW FORM

!.

Tab 328 contains Bease stars fes DEI

( ) Previously denied in toto under exemption (s)

dated 250gseul 1968

of

Segregable portions previously released; excised portions exempted

under

On Located during the DDO appeals review.

( ) Referred to DDO for review by

3. Further description, identification, comments, and/or referrals, etc.

1. I RECOMMEND: Malese in To

( ) Sustain initial denial in toto under exemption (s)

) ADD exemption (s)

• • DROP exemption (s)

of

( )

Sustain initial release of sanitized version with excised portions

exempted under

( ) ADD exemption (s)

( ) DROP exemption (s)

() Release additional information with excised portions exempted under

( ) Deny document in toto under exemption (s)

of

( ) Release a sanitized version with excised portions exempted under

of

;. The exemptions cited above are being claimed to protect the following:

(

Information from a foreign liaison service

Infornation pertaining to a foreign liaison relationship

Information which

would/could identify the source

Information pertaining to a source

Information pertaining to intelligence methods

Location of CIA overseas installation

Location

Name

of unacknowledged domestic installation

of CIA employee

File number

Pseudonym

Cryptonym

Internal organizational data

Name

of FBI

agent

FBI file number

Privacy of other individual

OTHER

COMMENTS and/or SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS.

During the DDO classification review, this document which was marked

was:

maintained

classified to

declassified

desensitized

UNCIASSIFIED

/ CONFIDENTIAL

[ SECRET

E2 IMPDET

CL BY 012170

[ TOP SECRET

---

## Page 80

13-00000

TOP SECAFF

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

PRESS ITEM FOR THE DOI

UNCLASSIFIED

DETROITOR:

DDCI

DDI

DDP

ПОСТ

ONT:

OSR

C/OPSCEN

INDICO

CSDO

SAVA

OSD

Don: 25. ADV

Itemaa.122

(81)

med

35

KING - SUSPECT. (TOPS 7)

MEXICO CITY (AP) MEXICAN AUTHORITIES QUESTIONED TODAY A U.S.

CITIZEN THEY SAID RESEMBLES THE MAN WANTAD ON A CHARGE OF SLAYING

OF DR. MARTIN LUTHER KING JRO, THEN RELEASED HIM WITHOUT PRESSING

ANY CHARCES.•

TOUR OF

DANIEL DAVID KENNEDY OF BALTIMOREANY CONNECTION

WHO SAID HE WAS ON A

WALKING

ВСАТН.

AN STAGENE, EDENTIFIED ONLY AS ORDE SHITE,

WITH KING'S

AN: FBI: AGENT

SAID THERE

WAS NO RESEMBLANCE

BETWEEN KENNEDY AND THE

SUSPECT, JAMES. EARLY

ACCORDING

TO POLICE IN THE CITY OF HERMOSILLO

RAYLE. ROBEITO FLETCHER OF THE JUDICIAL POLICE IN CAPORCA, SONORA,

HAD TAKEN KENNEDY INTO CUSTODY FROM A CABORCA HOTF.I.•

IN

BALTIMORE,

KENNEDY'S MOTHER, PEARK E. KENNEDY USAID,

'THERE IS JUST NO CONNECTION.

DOESN'T EVER

LOOK

LIKE

HIM RAY•

CZ110 SAES '4/25

Commens:

#:110532437

Thoge comments repingent the initial and tentative resction of the Office

of Consent Intelligende

Is the ottoched ilms from the news services.

---

## Page 81

fB=00000

---

## Page 82

13-00000-

APPEALS KEVIEW FORM

329

1b/260 contains DRAFT MEMO -

2077

> Proviously denied in toto unded excmption (s)

datad 26 Apr. 1968

(b)(3)

of FolA

) Located

during the DDO appeals review.

) Referred to DDO for.

review by

exther description, identification,

*histial racious paco

commentest and/or referrals, etc.

Mr/ Nat'l Fregis Satell- Board (USIB).

did, casinate draft snoon

RECOMMEND:

Sustain initial denial in toto under exemption(s)

of

( ): ADD exemption (s)

•() DROP exemption (s)

Sustain initial release of sanitized version with excised portions

exempted under

( ) ADD exemption (s)

( ) DROP exemption(s)

- Release additional information

with excised portions exempted under

of

) Deny document in toto under exemption(s)

of

Release a sanitirod version with excised portions exempted under

161(1) (4)(31

F0.12

he cremptions clted above are being claimed to protect the following:

Information from i foreign liaison service

Informatlon pertaining to a foreign liaison relationship

Informatlon which would/could identify the source

Information pertaining to a source

Informatlon pertaining.

Bocation

to intelligence: methods

of CIA overseas installation

Location

of unacknowledged domestic installation

Name

of CIA employee

File number

Pseudonym

Cryptonyn

Internal

organizational data

Name

OF FBI agert

FBi file number

Privacy of other individual

) OTHER

OMMENTS and/or SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS.

sring the DDO classification roview, this document which was marked

"SECRET

maintained

classified

declass: Cied

desensitized

* downyrded io Confidential

E2 IMPET

C1. BY 012170

---

## Page 83

13-00000

"]

DRAFT

26 April 1968

KING ASSASSINATION AND USIB

DCI:

A. Geacral:

1. Request that the Federal Burean of Invertigation

give a full repest to USTB on

(date)

on the atatas of the invertigation of the assarsiantion

of Dr. Martin Luther Kiog. Jr.

B. Specific:

1. Is there any indication that Ray has left the

USA?.

2. If so, whea, to what contry or area, and by waat

means and route?

3. Is there any indication that Ray had in the past

travelled outside the United States other than the

October - November 1967 trip to Mexico as Galt?

4. Is there zny indication that Ray bad been issued a

U.S, passport under his trug pame or auy of hit

aliases?

ARPROVED FOR RELEASE

Date 13 her 1928

---

## Page 84

13-00000

5.. Is there any indication teat Ray had any connection

with any foreign intelligence service? ll so, please

provide all possible details.

6. Is there day indication that Ray had any comnection

with foreigners in the United States, especially

Cubens and Sovicta?

7. Did Bay bave asy Coratiet connectiona?

8. Did Ray ever express any interest la Communiem?

9. Did Ray ever indicate any intercht in Cuba, Castro,

or the Cuban rerolution?

10. Does it appear that Ray bad anyaccomplices? If

so, have any been identified?

11. Has the EBt identified/or Ray's close riends or

amBociates?

12. Have ary contacts made by Ray in Merico daring

October/November 1967 been identitled?

13. If any accomplices; asaociates, or coxtacts have

been identified, are any of them Cors

aarnists 0r

associated with Communists, foreign officials, or

foreigy intelligence services?

---

## Page 85

14. Does the FBI think that Ray was hired to assasatnate

King?

i5. Is so, is there any indication that Communiste or

a foreign power were involved?

16. Has it been possible to secover and trace the origin

of any of the $20 bills uned by Ray to purchage the

silo and make other payments?

17. Os.19 April 1968 CIA furaished to the FBI photographe

of anknown individual resembling Ray. Has

the FBI determined whether or not this person is

possibly identical with Ray?

-201- 0832138

---

## Page 86

13-000007

COMFAT TIAL

DRAFT

26 April 1968

KING ASSASSINATION AND USIB

DCI:

A. General:

1. Request that the Federal Bureau of Investigation

give a full report to USIB on

(date)

on the status of the investigation of the assassination

of De. Martin Luther King, Jr.

B. Specific:

1. In there any indication that Ray has left the

USA?

2. If so, when, to what country or area, and by what

means and route?.

3. Is there any indication that Ray had in the past

travelled outside the United States other than the

October - November 1967 trip to Mexico as Galt?

%.

Is there any indication that Ray had been lesued a

U.S. passport under his true name or any of his

Downgraded. to

CONENDEN TUAL

•aliases?

y avngi, of 060,928

date te

CLADERO WON NOTEW

CONDUCTED IN 28 7ef 1978

CONGIRISUTIAL

201- 0532137

---

## Page 87

13-00000

CONFIDENTAL C

5. In there any Indication that Ray had any connection

with any foreign intelligence service? If so, please

provide all possible details:

6. Is there any indication. that. Ray had-any connection

with foreigners inthe United States, especially

Cubans and Soviete?

7. Did Ray have any Communist connections?

8. Did Ray ever express any interest In Communiam?

9 Did Ray ever indicate any interest in Cuba, Castro,

or the. Cuban revolution?

10. Does it appear that Ray had any accomplicea? "I

so, have any been identifled?

11. Has the FBI identified /or Ray's close friends or

associates?

12. Have any contacts made by Ray in Mexico during

October/November 1967 been identified?

13. If any accomplices, associates, or contacte have

been identified, are any of them Communists or

associated with Communists, foreign officiale, or

foreign intelligence services?

BONE TA

---

## Page 88

13:00000

CONFUEMIAL

14. Does tho FBI think that Ray was hired to assassinate

King?

15, If so, le there any indication that Communists of

a foreign power were involved?

16. Has it been possible to recover and trace the origin

of any of the $20 bills used by Ray to purchase the

rifle and make other payments?

17. On 19 April 1968 CIA furnished to the FBI photographs

taken in October 1967 at the Cuban Embassy in Mexico

City of an unknown individual resembling Ray. Has

the FBI determined whether of not this person is

possibly identical with Ray?

- 201-08

---

## Page 89

13-00000

---

## Page 90

13-00000

APPEALS REVIE FORM

332.

E68 contains DiSPATCH:

CEPA-

w/atte(2)

1097 datod 29 April 1968

Previously denied in toto under exenption(s) (ble (b13 /DiG) of FerA

) Segregable portions previously relcased; excised portions exempted

) Located during the DDO appeals review.

) Referred to 00O for review by

irther description, identification, comnents, and/or referrals; etc.

RECOMMEND:

Sustain initial denial in toto under exemption (s)

ADD exemption (s)

( ) DROP exemption (s)

of

) Sustain initial release of sanitized version with excised portions

exempted under

• ? ADD exeinption (s)

• DROP exemption (5)

) Release additional information

with excised portions exempted under

) Deny docunent In toto under exemption(s) -

of

> Release

is sanitized version with excised portions exempted under

(E1(1(413) (C2(5)

FOIA

he exemptions clled nbove are being clained to protect the following:

Information from i foreign liaison service

Information pertaining to a forcign liaison relationship

Information

ihl.ch

a/could identify the source

Information pertaining to a source

Informatlon portaining to intelligence methods

Locations of CIA overseas installations

Location

of unacknowledged domestic installation

Name

of CIA employee

File number

Pseudonyms

Cryptonym S

Internal organizational data

Of FBI agent :

FBI file number

Privacy of other individuals

OTHER

puring the DDO classification review, this document which was marked

:15

SECRET

was:

If maintained

clasgified to

dechanitied

acronfilited

I downraded to

confideNtiAL

1:2

1:1.

INUDET

BY 012170

ta :

---

## Page 91

13-00000

DISPATCH

ChLer.

Chief.

CLASSIFICATION

•IO.

FON

THOR REQUIRED

Chiefe

Referede

PROCESSING ACTION

MARNED FOR INDEXING

NO MOSKING REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED DESK

CAN JUDGE INDEXING

WNCRCFILM

9 Me 68

•dated 17 April 1968

reports chat the assassination of Di-Martin

Inther ding bad a aramatic and profoundly disturbing inpact upon

the ranian verse dorior jerraria

Eportarce, in tha Black comminity is Paris is indicated by the

prominent place accorded her, in the netarial service tor Do-

Kingo. (See under separate cover attachment 1)

2.. He call your aitention to the attached clipping Exon

the 24 April Le Bonde which reports on a press conference held

b: jases POraran, bead of, the International Affairs department

of succ, to announce a reecios snoportias black party dean

held at la larnalite on 29 April and to be addressed

Paul Sarisi

Attachments:

1 - Memorial Service Programa. (u/s/c)

2. - La Borde clippiag h/w

Distri

watts

w/atis

Vatts

ROSS REFERENCE TEC

APPROVED FOR RELEASE:

Date 20 Mar 197%

OTE TA SYMBOL AHD NUMBER

DATE

29 1pril 1968

HOS FRE WOMBEI

68

---

## Page 92

13:00000:

• CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

---

## Page 93

13-00000 -

SEPARNYE COVER AITCAMINTA1O:

AMDRICAN CONMUNITY SERVICE IN MEWORY OF

THE REV. DR. VARTIN LUTHER KING

PASTOR - CIVIL RIGUOS LBADER - HOLDOR OP TRE NOBOL POACE PRIZE

8 APRIL 1068

IÃZ CALL TO WORSHLP • The Rev. Robert A. Spencer - American Church

Prayer of Invocation

The lord's Prayor

EXMiT Nos 429 "Por All the Saints" (vrs. 1-5).

Sino Noniac

PROCLAKATION OF THE PRESIDENT

The lioni Hoodrufs dailner,

OD THE UNITOD STATCS

Chargé d'Aflaire - U.S. Enbassy

OLU SESTANENE LESSONS - Cánon Jamos licivanee: - American Calhociral

Daniel 3: 16-25

PRAYERS • Dean Sturgis Riddle - American Cathedral

MESSÁGES FROM THIE FRENCH CHURCHES

'The Rev. Dr. Charles Westphal - Foderation Protestanto de Irance

Higsi• Julien Gouet - Roman Catholic Diocese of Paris

Pastor Henri Vincent- Eglise Baptiste de France

NOW TISIMVENT LESSONS - The Rev. Dr. Clayton E. Villians,

•Ronans 8:31-39

Pastor Emeritus - Anerican Church

Matthew:10:24-59

ANTHDIi • Ti:o Choir

"Pszlu of Penitence" From King David by Arthwr Fonegger

(Mercy on me, O lord; pity, according to thy great compas-

Wipe away ny transgression; cleanse me unto the depth

of ny iniquity.'. Ir sin vas I conceived.

In cvil "as !

snd thou wouldst have a pure soul?

I have sinned.

Thou hast taught me thy visdon, and I have failod in my weak-

nesso. Mercy on ma, O Lord.")

TRIBUTE I0 DR. KING - MrS. Carline Polite - Anerican Author

FROM EN ADDRESS DE DR. KING - Vashington; D.C., Aug: 28, 1065

Read by Mr. Neville

Anrelius - Actor

PRATERS - The. Rev, Martin v.B, Sargent - Anerican Church

IWN - "We Shall Overconel

Negro Spiritual

Ve shall overcome, we

shall overcone,

"e shall overcome some day.

07, deen in my heart I do believe

Thet we shall overcone someday.

ve shall live in peace, we shall live in peace,

.He shall live in peace

sone day.

Oh, deep in my heart I do belicve

That ve shall live in peace some day.

shall brothers be, we shail brothers be,

We shall brothers be

some day.

•Ou, dcep in my heart I do believe

that ve shall brothers be some day,

REGESSIONAL • The 23rd Psalm

****a book oû condolences

is in the chapel to your righi

..€or those tho wich to sign it,

---

## Page 94

13-00000

2AD40400

De wro."

•.?3

Fictio

& tais.

=s 2oreaan, arcion presiden

Cit

Cotid Ca

coordination das

anjourdin:

ressassole dus 21-

du's

12105

C.C

canoned

S.N.

Gll7

inceting

en faveur di a pouvoir noir » au-

rais lisa à la Mutualite, to 29 arril

20 heures.

Ouire ii.

giul

iciement d ininistre Ces

4250 2 2085 1060ES C

noires

Daniel

Guerin,

Vercors

Jean-Poul

participeron:

rouainent à

cotre ratinion ail

Iquelle dout flims sc-

projciés

varez.

N:0 e Sar

A.-

Au cours

cc sa conférence

de

presse,

Mi

Foreman

evorud le

pectort Fring.

gerincide

11i:3

commet

les

amarionins « le

Cite

n.òs

blancite

icain

cul

7.15

le!

Co:1-

projes de

1o.

clastimiration

10.1000.25.

tient

en.

Co texte

clice lin

Cer-

clauses repressi-

I2:0n

di.

leaders noirs.

taniement

leari

Lint

appel

Ine.9:

D:?:

emor

res

-mineres

(Critsornie),

la sicile

cune ti-

sillade

aviC

cornicr,

police

gill

le

fait un mort

- L11]

jeune

noi-

dix-sept ars.

330

---

## Page 95

13:00000

DISPATCH

CLASSISICAMION

CONFASTAY BAT

PROCESSING ACTION

MARKED FOR INDEXING

NO INOEKING REQUIRED

Chlet

KOHUSE; Chief, suR Dirision;

ONLY QUALIFIED DESK

mies si station. Iondon

CAN JOOGE INDEXING

Chief. LCoXeIT/London

MEALERA/DEPROSS/BODIGASE

REQUIRED - REFERSNCES

keed

s Ne 65

Referests:

032A-1058, dated 17 April 1968

RobIcas? reparty that the assassination of De. Murtir

Lusher ning had a dematic and profoundly disturbing impact upon

he son are in do paris do one female Teader finiti

('01 the sace gils la Paris flew to the U.s, several days later

in order to be rhere the action is-" she does not plan to -

ratito bat wis very npressed by hex stay in paris saying that

she will try to persuade other SNCC members to avail themselves

of the raluable experience to be gained iron working with the

rariois devolationary groups ta Paris-, As we foresaw in Reference

thàn has left the sace souplin the joint bands of IDiNITIeS A al

and § of Reference: Invitations bave poured in to speak at

rations destin's and appears likely that IDENTry A of

inportance in the Black commity in Paris is indicated ty the

prominent place accorded her in the memorial service for DE-

King: (Soe under separate cover attachment 1) Needless to say.

this renders all the nore pressing an early decision on the

proposal contained in Reference.

2. He call your attention to the attached clipping fron

the 24 April Le Moode which reports on a press conference held

11 wanes foreman, bead of the Intemational Affairs department

of Suce, to ampounce a neeting supporting Black Force to be

held at la Mitaalize on 29' April and to be addressea By Teas

Paul SaIIe. QREBOTO/I Cold RODIGAST that theze had been some

Attachments:

1 - Memorial Service. ProgIan: (4/5/c).

2 - Ie Monde clipping h/W

Distribarion:

FULL TEXT COPY -- DO NOT RELENGE

M:367

# BONEW

CONOUCTED S

281211278

/CONTINGE

Downgraded to

by authority of

68

Litan

1 - c/oR w/atts

IN SYMSOL AND NUMBER

DATE

OSE3-2097

CLASSIFICAMIOM

29 ApriL 19SR

HOS FILS BUMAER

100-6-148/3

---

## Page 96

13-00000

FICATION

, CONTINUATION OF

DISPAICH

CONFIDENTLAL Y a A 3.

OERA-1097

confusion regarding Sartre's willingness to speak.

He had

originally accepted to speak at i culturally oriented "gala"

to be held at the theatre National Populaite and there was

a question legarding his illingness to switch to this more

political atrosphere... The "gala" (see earlier report, paragiaph

C of 02PA-918) Is now beiny planned for some time in May-

barking with foreman in planning fot the Mutualite meeting.

She is s0-busy that she has temporarily left her child with her

Bother-, IRITITY C Of Reference is also said to be working on

another project postoly tavolvisy travati vico la confidential

at this point.

Adrian Bo HASIDT?

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 97

13-00000

SEPARATE COVER ATTACHMENT I TO:

OEPA-1097

AMORICAN COMMUNITY SERVICE IN MEMORY OF

REV. DR. MARTIN LUTHER KING

PASTOR • CIVIL RIGHES LEADER : HOLDER OF CHE NOBEL, PRACE PRIZE

8 APRIL 1968

IIS CALL TO WORSHIP The Rev..Robert A. Spencer • American Church

Prayer of Invocation

The jord's Frayor

HYUN NO. 429 "FOF All the Saints" (Vi56.1-5)

Sina Nomine

PROCLAMATION OF THE PRESIDENT

The Hon, Woodruit Haliner,

OF THE UNITED STATES

Chargé d'Affaire - U.S. Embassy

OLD IDSTAMENT LESSONS • Canon James MeNamee: - American Cathedral

Psalm 90

Daniel 3:16-25

PRAYERS - Dean Sturgis Riddle • Anerican Cathedral

*MESSAGES FROM THE FRENCE CHURCHES

The Rev. Dr. Charles Westphal • Federation Protestante de France

Julien Gouet - Roman Catholic Diocese of Paris

Pastor Henri Vincent- Eglise Baptiste de France

NON ISSTANONI LASSONS " The REV. Dr. Clayton E.. Villians,

Romans 8:31-59

Pastor

Emeritus - American Church

Katthew 10:24-39

NITHEH • Tho Choir

"'Psala of Penitence" From King David by Arthu Honesger

(Merey on me, O lord; pity, according to thy great compas-

Wipe away my transgression, cleanse me urito

the depth

of ny iniquity..

Ix sin was I conceived..

In evil das I

And thou wouldst have a pure soul? I have sinnad.

Thou hast taught me thy wisdon, and I have failed in my weal

nesão. Mercy on me, O Lord.")

/ TRIBUTE TO DR. KING - Mrs. Carline Polite - American Author

FROM AN ADDRESS EX DR. KING - Washington, D.C., Aug- 28, 1965

Read by tr. Neville Aurelius • Actor

PRAXERS - The

Rev. Martin v.B, Sargent - American Church

HYMN » "He Shall Overcomel

Negro Spiritual

We shall overcome, we shall

We shall overcome

overcome,

some day.

013 g

deep

in my heart I do

believe

That we shall overcome someday..

Te

shall live in peace, ve shall live in peace,

Je shall live in peace

sone day.

Oh, deep in my heart I do believe

That ve shell live

'in peace sone day.

le shall brothers be,

we shall brothers be,

We shall brothers be

some day...

Obis deep in my heart I do believe

That we shall brothers be some day,

RECESSIONAL - The 23rd Psalm

à book of condolences

is in the chapel to you righi

tor those

who wish

to sign it.

---

## Page 98

13-00000.

sim

HEREVITE ATTACHMEN

59 70:

122:

DC 4,00.02

Presse

d'une

coordination

dictento

sujoürcit!

responsable

faires

C.C.

internationales

arinoncé

qu'un

đu

meeting

en fereur

au & polivoir.noir y 2u-

rais lieu à la iutualité, le 20 avril

neures.

Ouira

Toremon.

qui

est

egalement & ministre des

Filaires

étrangères » du parti des

Panthères notes,

saire,

Daniel

MVL

Aimé Ce-

Gruérir,

Jean-Paul

Sariro

Vercors

participeront

notamment à

cette

réunion

Ion$

laquelle

2u

deux

films so

proletés

Farez,

Jazz

Now,

de S.

cours

• cauurt-lorde.

Pari

Ce sa, contérence

presse,

Foremen

évoqué

le

ple

génocide »

tu'E

commet

contre

les Noirs américalrs i

sociét

emploiteuse

lencie

Ciste: 2.

ct

TC.

l'adoption por le

Con-

pres

interdisant

ant a de minaton

projes de lo

r2-

clale

ce

CanS

logement.

Ce texte

101.con

tient er.

tain

110c00*2

Ofes.un cor-

de clauses

Tis:

répressi

a.1Gg

selon

Ni.

lignider

es leaders noirs.

Formatid

Foremen

izaloment lancé

un

appel

en

Inemores

faveur

de

plusieurs

ali

12?!: des Pentneres

noires

Oakland

(Californie),

la suite

d'une fu

Stade

avec

police

avril

dernier,

Gial

jeune Noir

de

dix-sept ans.

OSPA-1097

---

## Page 99

13-00000

JFKI5

331

—.WtH WCCA.0G

aeabord CT..1i cia

---

## Page 100

13-00000

APPEALS REVIEN FORM

33/

Tab

Ma-by contains DISpATCH

HmmA- 34688dated 30 MAy

I Previously denica in toto under exemption sibli) (633) bYS) 05 ERLA

( ) Segregable portions previously released;

excised portions exempted

under

() Located during the DDO appeals review.

() Roferred to DDO for review by

Further description, identification,

comments, and/or referrals, etc.

I RECOMMEND:

sustain initial denial in toto under exemption (s)HINO)B)LE)OE EDiA

( AUD exenption (s)

( ) DROP exemption (s)

() Sustain initlal relcase of sanitized version with excised portions

exempted under

C ADD exemption(s

( ) DROP exemption(s)

• ) Release additional information with excisco portions exempted under

* Deny document In toto under exemption (s), -

1 OF

) Release a sanitized version with excised portions exempted under

he exemptions elted ibove are being claimed to protect the following:

Information from i

foreign liaison service

Information pertaining to a foreign liaison relationship

InformatIon which al/could identify the source

Information pertaining to a source

Infornatlon pertaining to intelligence methods

Location of CIA overseas installation

Location of unacknowledged domestic installatign

Name

of CIA employee

File number

Pseudonym

Cryptonyns

Internal organizational data

of FBI agent

FBI file number

Privacy of other individual

and tridite

mati Kernet

ment coned he comedler

tring the DO classification review, this document which was marked

SECRET

was:

classified

declassified

decentllixed

* conunde to Confidentist

1:2

IMPORT

CH. BY

012170

---

## Page 101

13-00000

DISPATCH

TO

Chief, WH Division

INFO.

FROM

Chiel, NOMUSE

Chief of Station, Mexico Cite

SUBJECT

Margaret RANDALL de MONDEAGON.

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

RYBAT MHALPHA

CLASSIFICATION

CONFIBENT ABAT

PROCESSING ACTION

MARKED FOR INDEXING

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

ONLY QUAUFIED DESK

CAN JOGE INDEXING

MICROFILM

Action Required: See paragraph 3.

Reference

: HMMW-16296, 5 April 1968

1.

The following items

from LIBIGHT/LIMUD

concern contacts of Subject who are believed to

coverage

be of interest:

A. Attachment A: A letter fron CAW,

magazine of Students for a Democratic Society, signed

by Jerry *BODANES, thanks Margaret for her poems

which they are using.

The magazine is scheduled to

be off the press around May 10.

The letter clearly

indicates that the SDS was behind the student seizure

of Columbia University. It says,

"Right now our

glorious brothers have seized Columbia University-

named. Malcolm X University--and over which an

N.L.F. flag now flies. The others, faculty, deans,

managers, are all scurrying

saying SDS this," SDS that,

"while we hold five

buildings in joyousness and the most serious

preparations to resist, our movement has over reached."

Enclosed is a check made out against the account of

the SDS in the Chemical Bank New York Trust Company,

2681 Broadway, New York, for the anount of $50, and

signed by Robert M. *SHAPIRO.

Continued.

Attachments:

As listed (9), h/w

EULL TEXT COPY - DO NOT RELEASE

Distributior:

Orig &

2

- C/WHD (w/atts

- I copy each

2 - C/ WOMUSE

(w/o atts)

Downgraded to CONFIDEN

DS OSBOL AND NUMBES

HMMA - 34688

CLASSIFICATION

SONEDENIA-

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW

CONDUCTED ON 3 InCuLE

EC, 2 IMPDET CLBY 202565

01322

DATE

20 May 1968

EistudId D-HQS FILE MUSBER

1: 365

201 was

1-69

---

## Page 102

13-00000

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

ICATION

CONFE

CH GYMBOL AND NUMHER

HMMA-34688

Attachment B:

Letter from Heiner

*BASTIAN,

1415 Kearny St.,

San Francisco, California 94135,

signed Heiner &

BASTIAN has made arrangements

with the editor-in-chief of AKZENTE to publish works

of revolutionary poets, and he asks Margaret's

help in collecting them. BASTIAN says that he is

going to Berlin about i

July, to Prague in early

autumn for a "group 47 meeting," and to Cuba in

November.

Letter from Jaime *CARRERO,

Interamerican University in

San German, Puerto Rico.

CARRERO has apparently sent

series of drawings based on Dr. Martin

Luther KING's assassination.

He describes them as

"poetic...but full with guts and disgust."

a possibility CBS will do a program on

his paintings and the work in his Art Department.

CARRERO is going to Columbia University in the

Summer of 1968 to study and plans to distribute

El Corno there.

D.

Attachment D: Letter from Susan *SHERMAN,

305 E.

6th St., No. 3, New York, N. X. (see HMMA-

33837).

She tells of

her plans

to

go to StoneyBrook

on 23 April to speak about the conference for their

week of protest activities.

She tells Margaret

that there are three people in Cuba she thinks

would be interested in

"The Hippie Book."

Jose *BELL Lara,

of Calle J #556, Vedado,

They

aTe

Habana;

who is connected with Pensimento Critico; Cuban

psychologist Gustavo *CORROELLA, Ave. 3А

Marianao, Habana;

and Lohania

#ARUCA,

#22,

99-4722,

MINREX-Direccion de Organismos Internacionales,

Depto. ONU 516, La Habana.

Margaret got a letter from

someone associated with CATERPILLAR.

He is thinking

of getting married to Marie *BENOIT

in England this

summer when he goes there to work in applied

philosophy.

Therefore, he tells Margaret he cannot

go to Cuba

as planned.

An interesting

development was the

fact that Margaret RANDALL received a letter from

Moscow from

Luis *SUARDIAZ, whose return address was given as the Cuban

Embassy,

SUARDIAZ asks for Suzan SHERMAN

(see paragraph 1D above).

SUARDIAZ says he will be working

as Cultural Counselor in

the Cuban Embassy and hopes Margaret

will keep

in touch with him and send him things of interest

(in a literary line).

In attachment G,

Sergia MONDRAGON,

Subject's husband,

indicates, that Margaret RANDALL is planning to travel to

Venezuelg from 15 to 30 June.

It is suggested that Head-

quarters may wish to send Venezuela some background information

on Margaret with suggestions for action by the Venezuela

Station.

•OpM

1.01

101

. 53 c

CORFIDENTINE

SECRET/RYBAT

PAGENO.

2 of 3

---

## Page 103

13-00000

GONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

¡SIFICATION

CONFIDENEALAT

TCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

HMMA - 34688

4.

Attachments il and I concern a book which

Margaret

is hoping

to write on Fidel CASTRO.

According to

Sergio's

letter of April 18,

with

she is planning to go to Cuba in October

a tape recorder, and then, based on these tapes, will

write her book.

Sergio

suggests Doubleday as a publisher;

however,

on 25

April 1968

Paula NcGuire

of Pantheon Books

(attachment I) wrote Margaret

interested.

It is suggested

saying

that publisher might

be

that WOLIME may have contacts

in these two publishing houses.

for Willard C. CURTIS

FOrd

3-as

53g

NGY RVBAT

CONTINUED

PAGENO

3 of 3

---

## Page 104

13-00000

(badenes)

+1719-31658

AtA.

---

## Page 105

13-00000

Den Moreut Pondall,

Thank you ver, mih be

Le great gost premi. We are

wong as ?

I will eet you been cretle hike mes

The magent

по сет)

May 10. Right now on glares

how need Malcolm X University

and over whech as Nif. plig tron

this -The others, faculty, Dears, Manegers,.

au all surizing and bikes plots nying

Sps ties; 5005 that

ni sagenes ent i so rene lilie

---

## Page 106

13-00000

do vast, our movement him ore, readin

Jang Botan

check encloses

---

## Page 107

13-00000

Mo a Randy in

Nat Xon

1/07231

4A51 18 31068 110

8: 40997

84-5800222

1M₫14

---

## Page 108

Hainer bastian

1414

Jan

nearny st

Francisco

cal.

J+193/U3A:

- LAW DAY U.

FREEDOM UNCERT

- MAY

1368

. VIA AIR MAIL

margaret Kandall

caitor

Apartailo Postal Nam.

Mexico.

13, D.F.

Mexico

15540

13-00000

---

## Page 109

1300000

Is Dear rarcaret;

I would laire co

nons jou for your leiter and the

two 1asued of "al corno".. The rason for sy late

answer

13 simpl; chai i salted for

the derinite

devision of the entor in chiet of Axiants zoou.

our projeur. ubs answer. as a total agreement!

I aia Very pleased poout that and I hope that

jou are

too. 1 kould

that you

coilect

about lo -10 revolutionary poet.

Tou snould

write an introdustzon or knatever you like.

I olso suggest that you onu not sergio should

collect ac. dad, or less "other"

poets, It sou

don't want to do that, please arrange sonething with sergio.

It makes

things nuch encier for me nailings, translations;

proots, etc)

I need

all. the material la acout 5 -o weeks. If this

aate glar put pressure on you,

let de kaos.

He are going

Li abuuù lo weets to berlin,

in cariy

AULLAN tO

Precue laroup +T meeting) and will

50 to

Juvs early novaiber. At unca iime te should de aole

no lus-sund: in che last analysis, all the truths

not marxi:a Can Da duneu up in one sentence: "To

reDed 13

justlfzed."... Accordin.

to

this

principle,

and susist, strucute, build soziplisa.

some to you and you chitter

hives a ciline

---

## Page 110

HANA-BHD58

Jaime Garr

Departmaneto de Arte

Univarsidad Interamoricana

San German, Puorto Rico

00753

CORATO AEREO

8961

63 8J8

430.

---

## Page 111

13-00000;

April

Puerto Rico

Dear

to dis

Chatt

Hog-

phone.

BrOup of. Cornos $24 and 25,26, I've

of

baned on Dr.

Martin Luther

12 get no whare with

chia

Your work 1a getting

ded,

no keap up the excellent

that

you are wOrking

under

24- 17

3009 JeTi

sard some

money

you have any lait. These

atrantion especially In

doing arogran of what I an

0uy Art Dapartont- If it comes

verd 02

Do about el Corno. This 1a

the dalla

CUT THI

An juna- celll agust-and I°1l

•º Columbite

I'll tako with me

BONS cOrnOs

IE

Sive any nessages

os anything

213 Man

Pork wallo chore-please-let no. know.

alemp

la familla cocolvos ny boat

you my sincere

love and efforts.

"Be confed which ming.

---

## Page 112

t3-000.00

MANA: 34658.

QuiD

WAAA

Suman Shezein

305

6ch St: 13

Now

York

Nolo

10003

TORK.

APA 25

IS6B

RandalI

c/o: 11 Corno Enplumado

Apsrtese PostaL

8130546

Mexico_13

Dolo

ANE

7 CANCES

E-

VER SOCIETY

VIA AIR MAIL

---

## Page 113

13-00000

125.509

10 24

STREET

NYC, NY

(963)

TUESDAY, APRIL 23, 1968

Dear Mag,

Just a notar 1'n solog

this

altarnoon to Stonayarook to speak

abour the conferenc

for thalr beal of proceat acclvities.

finally got most of. my

thinga & I have a packer of poutsy

that I'm sure was mast los yourmit was the poems

Tania sean:

for poisit mar have gotten nined up in

nay

thlogs. In any case

l'a sandlas then la a separate eavelop Al--Hall.

the Happia Book 19 really great Looklag,

thank you for 1t.

Thare

are tho

people in Cuba I chlak would be ver Intarasted ir

Lt

One worko on Panaimento Critico.

Jose Boll Wars,

paychologist

Gustave Torroella,

ho was ALlo St0s1Y

intrasted i anyoung conceralag hippples.

1100 Lonate Area:

99-4722,

MIRES Direcion de Orgalamos

Internelosales, Depto, HIs ONU 516, Is Haband,

It soons cow as 1! I also have a saall ulear which showed up on

last sanka Xrays..

But I'm tooliag much,

much better now.

Just

(bur than I dont give mysal!

That was whac was

probably caustag all

bettor 20u.

much to heart--but chata a long lesson.

I'm golny to try to gor the taque la shapo tha nest law daya.

will siva blow by blon description.

so you'll probably be

bearing from no quite

often.

Its Loury cold here again, I think

Spring took a look at Nou York and decided to go elsewherel

LOVE, E nOTO,

Jese

---

## Page 114

13-00000

#11 117-311655

CATERPILLAR

N3S GREENE STREET

NEW YORK, MX: 10013

MIR

MAIL

APR. 29

8g6;

ST.

Mea Randau

Apontado Postal 13-58

mexico 137 DIF

MEXICO

---

## Page 115

13-00000

2840l 1968

dear Meg,

I am sorry to have put the Japanese filmmaker on you; my

misjudgement. You were right to send the thing back to me.

Some changes in my life häve recently re-determined the

summer, and I am doubtful tonight, really doubtful for the

first time (tho I have been thinking about this for a couple of

weeks, but have not written because Everything was up in the

air), about the trip this summer.

The thing is that a more im-

portant thing has come up, namely going to England this fall

to do some very important work in an applied philosophy called

Scientology (to go "clear" as they call it), and doing that I

must teach all summer to make money and also to do work on

the fall issue of CATERPILLAR,

Marie Renoit and I are

seriously considaring getting marrled in England, and while

I could put the trip off until next spring, she wants to do the

thing this fall, and we both want to go clear together. So,

considering all of thig, I think you should scratch my name,

and bope I can go to Cuba later as well as hope the Cubana

will see fit to invite me later (I have heard nothing from any

Cubans about the trip this summer, so l flgured it is not com-

pletely set).

All of the other names I sent you are still to my

knowledge goodS'it I hear otherwise I will write you immediately.

CATERPILLAR 3/4 la out, and 3 copies are on their way to you.

I will mall a box of #2 and more*3/4s when I get the time.

Sorry

not to ho sent more, but only 3 went out to the contributors this

time and I forgot about you sending some to Cuba when I mailed

yours.

Saw Serglo a few weeks ago,

It was nice to see him.

We had supper in Chinatown and I gave him a new poem.

A number of people have commented on your prose/poem in

#3/4. Very impresaive is the general word. I hope it looks good

to you when you see the magarine.

I have a great deal new

work; are you open to printing more of my poetry in a forthcoming

EL CORNO?

I hope you are not upset my change in plans. This.

Sunday is the first day they have been defiaise.

loping your

life goes well these days,

altectionately,

Contact ther

---

## Page 116

13-00000

+11717-31655}

AteF

Mpueanol soudhll

воко Nº 13-346

BestisiC O varno implumdo

onelido De

maies

NOIAY NYd

---

## Page 117

Eg-00000

ma de juaniaco heroico

M sen gual angre

ineste eventusmete vi

arses age suen les sis Usten

y tu tibio de acurs.Отии

handn los y la e

claus estin? de bent

Sastante amato, aur Cuando dio hl

sente útil en abo, an lour

Enicare Carmeis futurs de te

perista y todo tote te s

---

## Page 118

13-00000

avan paiosante si direccia es

en paille sus Quadi

Sheri

an? Salides a sin

Causaneso creeiconi

---

## Page 119

15119-31235

13-00000 €

Ой : G

Mondragstate.

Deptiat torergu

Normali Ill, 6176

1955

Margaret

Randa!!

Apartando Postil 13-546

México

13, D.F.

A MEXICO

---

## Page 120

13,00000

SCHEDULE S

(om 1010)

Supplemental Schedule of income and

Retiroment Income Credit.:

melanino, mate and negates, partralpa, seal antino or traits

hey schedule do your tricene tas rutin Fenna 1040

1967

Around roostsad this year.

%

as ol line 4 over lime 5)-

Ass 1: Obesser As.

ộ Son be

amn 2 plas column 3 less eolemna 4, 8, and 6)

SHIPS, ESTATES OR TRUSTS, ETC

mubar and matine of income

cronin, an arployer alentification numbers.

ED IN PART I ABOVE

67-22 and 8B-13 an well as for those texayer ho misin

in appear in the first newding for decrectation

Jeand coat

2 Total de

SUMMARY

Stars: (ponsity)

53-71:1

---

## Page 121

13-00000

- RETIREMENT INCOME CREDIT

emen Ruin

Did you eir e

# arena.

& Rathe

(a) Far bapurens under de

0o) Foo taxpayes 50 years al po

1ar totai i pansiong and annuitica, i

a 3, Form 1040, 81

are reta do Part i,

Maximum amount al

Amounti races

(8)

rosd Rat

Eared lacon

(2) Taxpay

(2) Tapayara

It $3,300 €

if gray

or it o

A Triad of lines 3(a) aná 3(0) .

use 3 so :

vastion hasican les tinest cabaren

Included on page l,

why Act, the R

230 09 0V001

cans of 5900 - d1

detained as followe

•(p) Amount from lao 7 of par

B Tentativa cradik.

Exter 1595 Gl limo 7(9)

LINTATION

= Amount of bar ahon on pasto la lina 13, Fosa

30 Loes: Creülts clanned fer.torsign tra

11 Subbmet ine 20 f

22 Cradis

Enter ta

alcbeme is a

as comment bands. i

Aftermative C

nugh 7(0) ahomy.:...

avaltanta i#t

a aire Des, in dever

Furnish chus internation called for badore too

Retirement Incomo of boch humband and wite from panions and annuite

on pegs 1, lina 9, Form 1000, and groas nanta from Part i, Salame 2 of th8

2 Maximam amount of futiramon insore for cradit comptaton.

3 Daduct:

(a)

ined Retirement Acts and certan c

(0)

Earad Income recried (Dous tot apply to sew

70138 78 3

DE CVET).

It 91,200 t less, eitar 20a. .

li over $h,200 bart Bot cust $1,700 ontar ¾ ot

arcant orat 37,200g Et

lE over $1,700, ontar incese over $1,480,

# Total of linea 3(a) and 3(5) .:.

5 Tolai (add amounts on lina $ coiamns A and 15)

* Raianta (euntract line 5 from line 2) .

2 Enter here are on lina 210) at part A above ma amount on lina 5 or lice 1, w

$1,924

serials thre

C Ma

$1,370 00

---

## Page 122

13-00000

10.3 51

115

SERGIO MONDRAGON

Готи MAїн-9аВ"

May- 1719 48

Z0-1499

Marganel Radae

8$ /50,00

harhee aad fif, dillo no a) Douan

ARSI NAVORAL BANA eI Merz

de e mnd

8365

---

## Page 123

13-00000

275542

Mi qu En es sue dio de la

no? lini si ves a ini en Neuzuela

del 15 al 30 de junio, peni hacer

mir planes. Geo que llegare alli

el 15é 16 de jencio, Siludos! Sergio

---

## Page 124

13-00000

Mondragon - Dept, of foreign languages.

ILLINOIS STATE UNIVERSITY

NORMAL, ILLINOIS 61761

P14

*1955

19176)

MAIL

margaret randali

ed corin emplumado

÷ apartado postal 13-546

mexico 13, d.f.

---

## Page 125

13-00000

ILLINOIS

STATE

UNIVERSITY

NORMAL,

ILLINOIS.

61781

LEGE OF APTS AND SCIEN

imant of Foreign. Long

Таірріола: 309-434-2211

abr1l. 18 de 1968.

•quarida mog:

acaban de llegarme cono sels cartaa tuyas Juntas, con fotos, cartas de

los chics, noticias, ete, gracias. lástina del polo de saris, esa es una de las razones

-la Inica razón- por lo cual no la gusta que los chica pasen la noche en tlalpan por la

Insalubridad, estoy seguro que los piojos los toman allá muchas veces. en fia, qué tala

noticia lo del cochuo mog, no te pareco que tus amigos por lo menos dos anigos. estás

tomando

ventajas de ti? primero fue rodolfo, quien desaparaco con la grabadora: Ja la

devolviõt y ahora otro anigo te choca el coche y to te lo paga, dicas que to va a costar

mãs de nil pesos, te pareco Justo? a mi 1o.

gracias pur los ocho dólares de ni nota cobrasta nis 700 rasos de educación?

estuve en mueva york para las vacaciónes de pascusio me quedé con Ibandro y evt. ful tan-

bión a montroal j visité a los bosering- recordamos michas cosas, hablanos horas acerca

de tiempos felices, cuando tú y yo éraros una paraja llena de amor. alli estaba Bail

leonel kears y otro poeta canadiense que lnos publicado y no recuerdo su nombre, dicen qu

e tal voz vengan pronto a méxico, en 1-y. Vi. a 103 petersen, me trataron muy bien. te mar

dan muchos saludos y es casi seguro que vengan a néxico en el varano, Jo les invité a

quedarse en la casa, ya sea que tu estés a111 o on venazuela, siendo tan anigos tuyos

creo que está bien. pero ellos alquilarán un apartamento, por 10 mnos la mayor parte del

tiempo, vi también a sara blackburn, mujer maravillosa con quien hice mucha anistad.

e entusiamó la idea de tu libro sobre castro que vas a hacer en

3 otra igual. ne parece que to va aa seribir.

sabes que ella tiona mcha intluencia en

un lavor para olla:

el mundo ?iteraria de la grandes compaltas editoriales quiero pela Esta, Doy-6, 10011-

envíale el libro de o, pas "corriente alterna" a su domicilio,

cuesta como 12.00 pesos, es urgente,, gracias, vi tanbión à clayton estolnan, no invitó a

está nuy bien, najor que nunca y my amistoso. conoci también a su mujer, que

ne pareció una mujer my

triste,

aunque bugna. evi y leardro están bien.

te

todos

quieren muchoy te admiran y admiran al como, la revista se agota en tres días

8

ste

bookshdp".

androl codrescu ne dijo que debes enviar más ejemplares. tienen en la tien

da un aviso de tu libro,

anunciado entre las "novedades"

felicidades por tu antología de poesía revolucionaria. y por el manus

crito que te piden en londres, parece que una compalia grando do aquí quiere que les

haga ma antologla de poesia hisp.

-anos a ver, que sucedió con mí libro en el fondo?

la unive-sidad parece que no va a publicar ni libro, mala suarto la de ese aprendia de

brujo. ángela y george están muy bien. parece que se aman mucho. angela i todos,

clayton,

etcag

cuando subor que vas a cusa en octubra, dijeron Inmediatamente que

50c1g

tal vez vas a ser mes. fidel castro, o al renos su amante, sara dijo que se noriá de en-

ridiao

han salido más cosas del corno en 1o9 periódicos, enviane alemos recortes.

ana a los chios y cuidate, to mandé una carta hablándote de los poemas de marco

antonio, también envié ya su manuscrito de regreso, y na quede con unos posnas suyos.

escribeme, aine si crees que los niños están regionulendo mucho la separación, y en que

formdo abrazos y abrazos.

Sergio

---

## Page 126

13-00000

S5744-0ÜLH

ATH MATI

427 MADISO

AVENUE NEW YORK. N.Y

PANTHEON BOOKS

PANTHEON BOOKS

ST MADISON AVENUE, NEW YORK. MY 1002

A BITESSON (E RANDOSS HOUSE, INC

Panda MrGuin

M April 25, 1968

Has Margaret Rendel

Apartado Postal 13-511

Mexico 13, Dal, "

Doar Alas RendeLs

My former colleagus Bars Blackburn (aho sends hor

lovel has told ne that the recently heard through

your husband about your plans for & trip to Cuba

im orior to mrite a book on Gastro.

I should be

very interested to know more about your plane idth

i tiew towards the possibility of publishing your

book and home you'll be able to write no.

Inoidentally, we are about to publish Jose Xglesias

In the Flot of tha Revolutioni Life in a Cuban

Country Lown.

I thought you d be Interested to road

It and have sont you a sony under soparate dover.

Iours sinceroly,

Paula He Guire

---

## Page 127

13-00000

TAS

$334

No Doast

ATTACHED

---

## Page 128

13-00000

---

## Page 129

13-00000:

??::

APPEALS REVIEW FORM

333

Tao@-55 contains MEMO

B- 173

dated

WATT INEWSPAPEN

19 Sept 1968.

i Previously denied Recomme to s

А пованя ї педіли ву iPs

V) Segregable portions previously/rolcasee, excised portions exempted

of FOIA

() Located during the DDO appeals review.

( ) Referred to DDO for review by

Further description, identification, comments, and/or referrals, etc.

I RECOMMEND: *

() Sustain initial denial in toto under exemption (s)

of

( )

ADD exemption (s)

( )

DROP exemption (s)

~C0 Sustain initial

sanitized version with excised portions

exempted under

ex pte exaption 5) (8l 131

of Folt.

( ) DROP exemption (s)

-(41/11

( ) Release additionil information with excised portions exempted under

() Deny document in tuto under exemption(s) _

of

Release i sanitized version

with excised portions exempted under

The exemptions clted above are being claimed to protect the following:

Information fron a foreign liaison service

Information pertaining to a foreign liaison relationship

Informatlon which would/could identify the source

Information pertaining

Informatlon pertaining to intelligence methods

Location of. CIA overseas installation

Location

Nane

of unacknowledged domestic installation

OE CIA employee

File number/ Mee

Pseudonym

Cryptonym

Internal organizational data

Name

of FBI agent

FBI file number

Privacy of other individual

OTHER

COMMENTS and/or SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS.

uring the DDO classification review; this document which was marke

maintained

classified 10

declassified

desensitized

doungraded to

1:2

IMPOST

C!. BY 012170

---

## Page 130

13-00000

1 3 SEP 1968

2 SUBJECT: Stokely. CARMICHAEL

Attached is a copy of an article appearing

the 9-15 May 1908 issue of Clarte,

weekly newspaper of

the Belgian Communist Party (Marxist-Leninist)

covering

an interview with Stokely CARMICHAEL that was published

in the 1 May issue of llumanite Nouvelle, newspaper of the

French Communist Party

(Marxist-Leninist).

The interview

was conducted when CARHICHAEL was in Paris, France.

Also contained in the clipping is a report of an.

interview on Radio Havana with CARMICHAEL following

-assassination of DI. Martin Luther KING. . CARMICHAEL waS

in liavana, Cuba, at the time.

PLEASE TRAMSHIT REPLY VIA LUNSSI, MR. S. J. PAPICH

Based on Clarte, Belgian Communist Party (Marxist-Leninist),

9-15 May 1968

Enclosure: as stated (one)

APPROVED FOR RELEASE

Date 13 Moul 78.

53

---

## Page 131

13-00000

lo peuple soviétique est fidèle

STALINE !

TUC

¿Fondoteur : Honoró WILLEMS, fusillé par les nozis, le 29 février 1944

NÉDACTICH

ADRRENOTRATICN

32, chausse: d'Alsamborg,

DAUXELLES G

TSI. (01) 07.76.00

ORGANE CENTRAL DU PARTI COMMUNIOTE

(MATHIOTE-LENINISTES, DE DÉLCIOUE

GIBU-QUE LA DIRECTION DU PARTI ET DE L'ETAT

SOVIRTIQUES SOT A PRECENT USURPEE PAR DES

REVISIONNISTES, JE CONCEILLE AUX CAMARADES

•D'AVOIR LA CONVICTION QUE LES LARGES MIAS-

SES DU PEUFLE SONIETIQUE, DES MANDAES DU

PANTI ET DES CADRES SONT CONO ET VEULENT

FAIRE LA REVOLUTION; LA DONATION DU FE.

VICIONVIONE NE SERA RAO LONESE.

MInOTSE-TOUNG.

HEDDONADAINE

NOUVELLE SERIE - Numéro 20

Comateo du 0 eu 15 mai 1050

(Tarif d'abonnements: pages 8)

---

## Page 132

13-00000

Soclely CARNICILACL

Noise obicodd linal:

Nous atroquer au

structures copitastes

des U.S.A

Dans con numéro du Preinter Mal, l'a kumanisNouvelle», organe central du Parti

Connuniote Mamiste-Lérinicto de France a pubi une intervice de Slockly Carmal-

chast, leader du "Dlack Power» (Pouvoir Noir)Colte intervici'a été réalicie par un

samprade africain lors, du rúsont cájour de Carmicasl à Paris.

Le Dlack Power cot un mouvement ce masse de Afro-américains, Certaines de ces

pacitions peuvent ne pas toijcurs coïncider avecselles des marxistes-léninicles mais:

Il est'évident que le combat du Black Power est kroïque, courageusement anti-raciote,

cul tropérialicie.

C'cot cola qqui est. imporiant: C'cot pour celte.

inaiguable document.

rison que nous reproduicons ce re.

Li arinde

1at0 du combattrito

STOCKELY CARMICHEL - L'aspect principal de la situation du

Gul differie sur leneindes silla ia

peuplo alro-américain esteclui d'uno nouvello forme do coloninlisme

Intérieur, Il engit d'une situation precque originalo qui impliquo

Mirrigur, des lappe: 119s ps difro-arco-

que noire lutle so fixo deux objectifs principaux :

indien cortro les fielle demetlosanl.

"-Olfactit numéro 1dliminer l'oppression colonialo qui nous

•.At9

tantsance racistes et l'osdro

Visa en tant que Noirs sur le tripio plan économique, social ot por

Buteur: du les affadelle lespérialeilo

mand, tomoren de le dulte fie

obloci numéro 2 nous niquor aux stuctures captalcios

ol Importallites dos U,S.A.

11.10 1, 8:110

contiers,

l-ostevident quo l'objecurinod.cor onsontiellonent pourviv! par:

les soulo alro minérienine. Ounnt A l'objectit n92, 1 concertera tous

le revoulonnolrne

---

## Page 133

13-00000

Mortes ton.

a cigutation intricain. il

land sans ho latle dex peuples - et

inandrement eu pougle mrurand.

conscience guld

cesto la sialenen révolationactr berit

sir-

lasmara.

nioly,

pergie adorancérendo, en l'emirai-

tant gre.185c90e18 d 1910 scorales-

Mo dinecales ce do bagarron, ta

priment des bradlers

'Tintes

12-1-08). B1014- 11 11104156

cul adres congoléalloden, allos cellerd, de dess

no certes, a qu'ifourssus, de tois

To puy's a (l'Iconomit dir J1-1

Londres).

que dit cette voir. Ds nurllo lie-

tre duss rares su do raclaio carnees

Tretremnt Inportant? fourguel

progres lites dologuit-das la souscule

ol la fatra coniiiro y.

Drs répanurs apparaitront diams lo

enars du l'esposó que Stolirly Car-

antehel nous il falt recemment et

- 71000

Carbone

- la probicine do l'oxplollation.

J'ai indiqué plus haut que l'objectif 1'2 clait une couvic d'ensch-

bie; simplemeni parce qu'il visait à résoudre un probionie qui

n'est pas particulior aux Nois: le problome de l'exploitalion de

l'homme par liomme, Il n'est pas nécessairement lié à la couleur

de la pcau.

Quant au probitmo du raciome, on peut dire qu'il est spécilique

à l'homme noir. On pout mumo poser l'équation ivanto : Noir ==

Prolétariat dit monde. A cause de sa soulo pen

L'Occidont Blane no pout pas nier s'étre d

de Noir. Prenez les Antillos trançaises, holland

Pranoz Ion Elats-Unis des aidclim

los alais-Unis d'aujourd'hui, Pronez l'Afrique.

quente à co sujet.

l.co. Dinnes. de lOccidont trouvent leur jur

ill

d'occidenial

dans la négation du Noir en tant que Noir. lls ol

du Noir un être

cub-humain pour rationaliser l'exploilation du

Isdir. Pour no pas

s'hurnilier

en tant qu'hoinines.

- Oul, bien sûr, il y a le « Code Noir» de Colbert. Mais lout de

mômc.

celle cxploitation du Woir ne pout pas dire simplement un

fait die psychologic appliquée, car en fait, le racionie apparait bien

comme une maniloctation, de la tulle des classes. ll n'y a qu'à ro-

picsdre les cremples.

STOCKELY. - D'abord, il y a on problème Immédiat : solil de la

prica do concolenco do la viclimo en lico. du bourrcau. C'cot en

lant que Noirs que nous entendons nous battre.

Il reclo qu'aux Etals-Unis, un Noir « bion placé » sur le plan éco-

nomique n'échappe pas au racisme.

Il n'oal que de lire la presse américaine pour s'en

convaincre. Lo

problème du raciomo ici n'est pas nécessairement lié au problèmo

do l'oxploilation.

•Le racisme falt partie de l'arsenal idéologique et pratique de l'im-

périatiome ainéricain. Les Noirs sont d'autant plus expocés que les

Blancs occidentaux ont détruit les

cultures africaines

de lhomme

noir, Ics Noirs,

dans le monde, parlent la langue de leurs mailros.

Or la

cullure comme dit Fanon, est une " force

cohesive ";

leur faut donc

aussi résister à cotte culture

d'imposition (le plagin,

ic petil-negro ?).

Dans lo

cadro des Airo-américalis cola transparait sous la

1or-

mo du christianisme. Le christianisie est une culture d'imposition,

c'est-à-dire cosentiellument une culture impérialiste, parce quo liée

à l'idéo

de la valcur universolle du maitro. Vous devez en savoir

quelque choco en Arique, avoc la cortège de conversions forcocs.

En falt, In libération culturolle est uno choso très importanto. Elle.

•doll viser à répotor lo ayatomo d'éducation du maitra (on lant quo

espido final de temporision culturalto) education popllatiolo ving

ma Ella ost nécrocairciani politige.

-- L'uno des limilos objecio des dirigean's qui nous ont ficié

dés cal la suivante : il ont fit april aux oppresacura ci non dar

opprimós. Nous, nous faisons appol aux opprimas, Nous leur d

gonsi vous voulez elie libres, il faut vous buttre lu le pisident

Mao Tsé-toung indique avec mison quo « le pouvoir cot au bout du

fusil ». C'col justo. Nous oproserons nos fusile libéraicura aux fusils

racistes de l'impérialione amiricain, dans ses propros villes.

Nous le forcerons à ce batre comme nous l'ontendrons. Comme

font nos amarados vioinamins. Gil vout ulliser du napalm el des

rockels sur ses propres villes, nous ny voyons pas d'inconvénicnis,

mais nous nous battrons, d'est und cloco entonduo,

- Vois-lu un rapport onio votro luile cl colles des camarados

vicinamiens, et des quires peuples en lulte contre lingeratome,

Bich evidemmont, chaque

mio les boce de Mimportabamo

cont minées à l'extéricur, notro lutle s'en trouve proportionnelle-

mont avanlagéo.

Nous voudrions blen par cxemple qu'il co trouve un seul pajs

africain qui so dóveloppo par teo propres ciforts, clonon en allant

mendier chez les Dlancs occulentaux.

Nous en nurions fait, pom in mobilication de nos mances fonda-

mentales un modelo psychoigique et mathodique à la fois. Mais

on no poul pas dire qu'il y nil un soul paya tovolutionnaire en Alri-

quo à l'houro acluollo, C'est d'aillours pour cola que l'O.U.A. est

paralycéc. Aujourd'hul, si des Noirs américains avaient à s'exiler on

Mírique, pas un soul pays altionin no les accopierait pour la bonno

raison que tous cos pays conl soumis au joug de l'inpérialieme

politos bourgeoisies contre-révolutionnaires

voir en Mirique sont intéodica à Jolinson, el exploient leur pro-

pres frères de couleur.

— Quelle cut votre tache principale en ce moment. Colle qui ro-

quleri actuellement la priorité ?

• D'abord, éliminer nos ennomis, c'est-à-dire lous les mouvements

contre-révolutionnaires voulnal d'intégrer à la socioté

capitalisio

Ensuite, organiser notre polnie pour qu'il nequierre le mordant o-

fensil, condition sine gua non pnur briser le statut quo d'adjourd'hui.

Cor c'est bien cola que signific la lutte délensive des Luther King

ot autres.

Pour vaincre, il s'agit d'allaguer. C'est un programme minimum.

Interview teléphonique a Radio-La Havane

Déclaration de Coumichaöl à la suite

---

## Page 134

13-00000

Vic.-

a cato contros eispone en dail

tras d in pisonleo

cosarn ris

•si basiles inst dotare dio lea d908a860197-

Mlderly parte

list, satiral-

tt111ll0.

Notre sonnet,

Louit,

Talme-glanga 19arl4 - 10558056 J6

Mentorild do la tradiollosi, Erg 111-

Lantiene durerosal guere lierire:4.

TISIISA,

rotabir ot a perpetuer la sociolo capilalisc.

a Pintiquemont, comment lout cola poul-il d'agencer ?

En organicant los Noirs. Mictoriquement, nous vonoris tous d'Alri-

quo. To nous eirperzant dano leur mondo, deo illanes occidentaux

nous cui opprio, par la négative coten, maio note ont appre quand

meme a approcier Tunile, Nous cavone aujourdhui, que l'unito, c'cot

In puicaanco. C'est pour réalicor col inporalif d'unito que nous a-

vono arreta, dane un premier tempo, do nous réaliser culturollement,

en rejetant lo chrlolioniamo (culluro ‹l'imposition, lido à l'ideo do su-

prématio do la

culiuro des Blance occidentanx).

a le polemo & ricondre del coin de crogr des révolutionres

noiro. Pour noua, cola signilio 3 objectilo :

1 Adoplion d'uno langue nationic niricaino: le swahill, par

excinpio.

2. Destruction du christianismo.

3.

Rerlecouvrir l'Afrique,

mais d'une maniere scientifique, pour y

pucer nos propros mesoo, nu lou d'acommer los léros blancs

ncoldentaux.

En commo, recréer notre culture pour en faire une force do cohé-

sion.

Dégoger uno Idéologio polilique communo. A cet égard l'expérion-

co do In Révolution chinoise est riche d'exemples mobilisateurs..

Notre lacho à nous est de luller pour acquérir uno idéologie cor-

recie,

capable d'unifier lous les Noirs.

La cirono fondameninio i rotenir, c'est de contribuer a devolopper

la conscienco qui coit amenor l'Américain noir à résisior. Cetie

conccienco cot nécescalro.

de l'assassinar He Mamm Tüther King

Lo quorre du guérila

dons les villes

ed me contesterend de polita ei colles

•i morto de queste date lee daller,

moril america

Brown en polies of lileo maris

Influe les.

lint le mond dirigend sul ridi?

i lin categuente le sonbre ds

1ed spalle ond aamaring lile

Eugen a sond dea lo sismolo:

lo godeme impériliale, lour dugi,

l'usiste de Ming lowow in

graves deidente day e demo ad evidente pone cone Mannito

y auro d'audrey incliente de so air sles pour s arriver.

---

## Page 135

13-00000. r

19 SEP 1968

I SUBJECT: Stokely CARMICHAEL

1.

Attached is a copy of an article appearing in

the 9-15 May 1968

issue of Clarte, weekly newspaper of

the Belgian Communist Party (Marxist-Leninist) covering

an interview with Stokely CARMICHAEL that was published

in the 1 May issue of Humanite Nouvelle, newspaper of the

Also contained in the clipping is a report of an

interview on Radio Havana with CARMICHAEL following the

¿assassination of Dr. Martin Luther KING. CARMICHAEL waS

in Havans, Cuba, at the time.

PLEASE TRANSMIT REPLY VIA LIAISON,

Based on Clarte, Belgian Comnunist Party (Marxist-leninist),

9-15 May 1968

Enclosure:

as stated (one)

Trans

^ APPROVED FOR RELEASE

LAUG: 1976 55

---

## Page 136

13-00000

UNCLASSIFIED

SUBJECT: (Opponel)

FROM:

CI/Ober

TO: (Often designation, room number, and

building)

1.

ONLY

CONF ENTIAL

ROUTING AND RECORD

SHEET

SECRET

RECEIVED

DATE

FORWARDED

5847

OFFICER'S

INTIALS

NO.

B-173

DATE

19 Sept 1968

MMENTS (Numbor noch.comment do stren from wh

›a a lino ocross columns after each comme

EVES OMLY, cuse Internal Use that

Originated by:CICP/DO

(19 Sept 58)

3.

...

Based

On.

Clarte, Belgian

Communist Party

(Marxist-Leninist)

9-15 May 1968

6.

Disseninated to:

FBI on

1aa Sept 68

8.

297481978

WARNING NOTICE

This document contains information exempted from un-

authorized diretesung boy the

Freedom bf Information

Act andior the Privacy Act 15 USC 5529; 5 USC 552a (a)).

10.

12.

13.

14.

15.

CA* 610 STARENOS LY SECRET

I CONFIDENTIAL [

File. B-Vemos (record copy)

PROB bRUSSEl.

CC:

ARMICHAEL

Stokely.

(soft) (w/enc)

cc: EVES INLY

B-175

INTERNAL

USE

ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 137

13-00000:

SECRET

NO FOREIGN BISSEM NO DISSEM ABROAS

19 SEP 1968

SUBJECT: Stokely CARMICHAEL

1.

Attached is a copy of an article appearing in

the 9-15 May 1968 issue of Clarte, weekly newspaper of

the Belgian Communist Party (Marxist-Leninist) covering

an interview with Stokely CARMICHAEL that was published

in the 1 May issue of Humanite Nouvelle, newspaper of the

French Communist Party

(Marxist-Leninist). The interview

was conducted when CARMICHAEL was in Paris, France.

Also contained in the clipping is a report of an

interview on Radio Havana with CARMICHAEL following the

• assassination of Dr. Martin Luther KING.

CARMICHAEL waS

in liavana, Cuba, at the time.

PLEASE TRANSMIT REPLY VIA LAWSON, MR. S. J. PAPICH

Based on Clarte,

Belgian Communist Party (Marxist-Leninist),

9-15 May 1968

Enclosure: as stated (one) gleäin Carmichae seus. soft).

Declassifled y

date -2

260593

4x1228

FULL TEXT COPY - DO NOT RELEASE

GLASSIFICATION REVIEW

CONDUCTED 038741278

55

NAPOET CL BY 06052

SEGRET

NO FORDION CISSEM NO DISSEM ABROAD

Gieur 1

Erstand traa automati:

Coming 1a1

---

## Page 138

13-00000

Le peuple soviétique

est

fidèle & STALINE!

DICH-GUE LA DIRECTION DU PROTI ET DE L'ETAT

¡SOVIETIQUES SOIT A PRECENT UGURPCE PAN DES

MEVISIONIOTES, JE CONCEILLE AUX CAMARADEO

D'AVOIR LA CONVICTION CUE LES LARGES MAS-

SES DU. PEUPLE SOVIENQUE, CES MENONES DU

PARTI ET DES CADRES SOIT CONG ET VEULENT

FAIRE LA REVOLUTION; LA DOMINATON DU FI-

VICIONIOME NE SERA PAS LONGUE.

MAO TSL-ТСУМС.

Fondataur : Honoré WILLEMS, fusillé per les nozis, le 29 février 1944.

MÁDACТO9

MOTARICH

3e, chausses d'Abomborg,

BRUXELLES 6

Tól. (03) 37.70.00

ORGANE CENTRAL DU PANTI CONMUMISTE

(MARXISTE-LÉNINISTE), DE DÉICIOUE

HEDDOMADAINC

NOUVELE SER - MONOTE 20

Comina Co D au 15 mel 1023

$.0a2s3 - 5 Frenes

(Tarit d'abennemonis : pages 3)

---

## Page 139

13-00000

0. CLIVE - 5

Sieckoly GARNICHAGL

Notre objects Morl:

Nous alluquer. au

structures capitaltes

des U.S.A

Dans con numáro da Premor Mal, Va BumanitNouvelie », organs contral du Parti

Connuniste Mariate-Léninisto da Franco a puli une Intervicw de Siockcly Carni-

chafi, londer du « Black Power» (Pouvoir Noir)Cette interviow'a Etó réalicée par un

camarade africain toro, du récent séjour de Canninnol à Paris.

Le Black Power cot un mouvoinent die masco de Afro-américains. Certaines de ces

positions peuvent ne pas toujours coïncider aveccolles des mariticles-léninistes mais

: Il est évident que le combat du Black Power est hroïque, courageucomont anti-raclote,

coli-iapérialisic.

C'est cole savi cot, insporient. C'cet pour celta dison que nous reproduicens ce re-

marguable document.

STOCKELY CARMICHEL : L'aspect principal de la situallon du

couple afro-américain ostcelul d'uno nouvelle forme de colonialismo

Intériour..ll engit d'une sltuation

prosque originalo qui impliquo

que notre lutle so lixe deux objectifs prinelpaux :

-Objectit numéro climiner l'oppression colonialo qui nous

R0. 429

latines sociite dt lordro

vise en tant que Noirs sur lo triplo plan écoromique, social ot po-

larse de Molenes Septalallito

obour numero 2. nous naquer aux structures", oniptalites,

cf Importallatos cins U.S.A.

lindo 1s.

---

## Page 140

13-00000

le non-votence de l'oppoted de cadiso

matino on reda, min jabon lesper-

lane dans li tullo des beiples - ce

ricaln dul in prie

consciencr: 1in

tendo lis violonen révolationastro peuta

rencontreurs

Liomutiro.

Mails

l'inpérialistan,

Mas, Nuls,

tette stagne de mille parest, de 22a)

tre la discrédit mair le catites dettes sias

papte afro-condolees, 0n8

laminale

cul lneltent pabil-

permett

mentres (Ne16 Yurie

Tines 12-lo60). Male Re mauvais

Mantea, Ou col dune forió du ri-

Hus du play en plus mottessent. cun

to piya à (arriconolos du i1-1.

Londres).

2uo dit cotto voir, Do quallo 1t-

to c'arit-1ª D'uno cimalo lutte rn-

tre deile rares eu de suckur close

d'autrement Importent?

L'ourguel

ico marolotr-lendnistog

ot tous le

progres lutes doivent-ils la souichir

of la faire conarútre ",

coun do l'espoco quo stokely Cir-

mediel nous a fait réremmind ri

mo nous retuluan palille pore la piri-

= la problème du racisme

= la problème do l'explollation.

J'ai indiqué

plus haut que l'objeclif 1'2 était une couvie d'chsem-

bio; simplomont parco qu'il visait à résoudre un problènio qui

n'est pas particulior aux Noirs: le problème do l'exploitation de

l'honne par lliomme, Il n'est pas nécessairement lié à la couleur

Quant au probiémo du ráciemo, on pout dire qu'il est spécilique

à l'homme noir. On pout même poser l'équation ivante : Noir =

Prolétariat du monde. A cause de sa seule per

L'Ocuident Blanc ne pout pas nier s'olie a

du Noir. Pronoz los Antilles françaises, holland

mömo sauce. Princ% les Elais-Unis des siècl

les Glais-Unis d'aujourd'hui, Pronoz l'Afrique.

hicloire est cio-

suonde d en sulci.

Les Blanos de l'Occident trouvent leur jur

le d'occidental

dans la négation du Noir en lant que Noir. la di

jeu Noir un cire

sub-humain pour rationaiser l'exploilation du

indir. Pour no pas

s'hunilier en lant qu'hoines.

— Oui, bien súr, il y a le «Code Noir» de Collert. Mals lout de

même, colle exploitation du loir ne pout pas dire simnicment un

fait dio psychologia appliquéo, car. en fait, le racionic apparait bion

comme une manifectation de la lulle dos claccos. ll n'y a qu'à re-

prendre los exemples.

STOCKELY, - D'abord, il y a un problèmo Inunédiat : celui de la

priso do conscienco do la victime en laco. du bourreau. C'cst cn

lant que Noirs quo nous entendons nous ballre.

Il resto qu'aux Etais-Unis, un Noir « bion placé » sur le plan éco-

nomique n'échappe pas au racisme.

Il n'cal que do lire la presse américaine pour s'en convaincre. Le

probiomo du racisme ici n'est pas nécessairement lié au problème

• Le racisme falt partie de l'arsenal idéologique et pratique de l'im-

périalisine américain. Les Noirs sont d'autant plus exposés que los

Glancs occidentaux ont détruit les cultures africaines de l'hommo

noir, los Noirs, dans. le monde, parient la langue de lours maitros.

Or. la culture comme dit Fanon, est une « force cohúsive»; ll

icur faut donc aussi résister à cette culture d'imposilion (le pidgin,

le petit-negro ?).

Dans la cadra des Airo-américalna cela transparait sous In for-

mo du christlanismo. Le christianisme est une culture d'imposition,

c'ool-i-diro cocontiollumont une culture Impéraliste, parce quo liée

à l'idéo de la valeur universolle du maitro.

Vous devez en savoir

quelque choso en Arique, avoc le corloge de conversions forcéos.

- De quel ordio coronai

- Ello cat nécrocaireiiant politigin.

- L'une des limites obiennes dus dirigeants qui nous ont pris-

dés est la suivante : il ont lui appil dux opprocadora ce don dux

opprimés. Nous, nous faisone appol aux opprimes. Nous leur di-

« Si vous voulez. elie fibres,

il faut vous battre l» La président

Mao Tsé-loung indique avec maison que « la pouvoir est au bout du

furil ». C'est juste. Nous aproserona nos fusils libéraicura aux fusils

racistes de l'impérialisme amiricain, dans seo propres villos.

Nous le forcorons à te batre coinme rous l'ontendrons. Comme

font nos camarades vicinamiens. B'il veut utilicer du napalm ci des

rockels sur cos propros villes, nous n'y voyons pas d'inconvénienis,

mais nous nous baltrono, duel une cliose entonduo.

Vois-lu un rappori calio votre luile et celico des camurades

victnamiona, ot des auirco peuples en lute contre laguialione,

U.S. cn löte ?

Bicn évidemment,

chaque fois gro les bacer de Paragialismo

sont minces a l'exterieur, dotro

son irouve propertionnoliu-

moni avantagéo.

Nous voudrlons bien par exomplo qu'il se trouve un soul pays

africain qui so dúvcloppo par ces propres ciforis, oi non en allant.

mendier chez les Blancs occrtchlaux.

Nous on nurions fait, pour la mobiliantion de nos macros fonda-

mentales un modèle paychogique et methodique d la lois. Mais

on no pout pas dire qu'il y ail un coul pays révolutionnaire en Au-

que à l'houre actuelle. C'est d'aillours pour cola que l'O.U.A. est

paralysée. Aujourd'hul, si des Noirs amériorins avaieal à s'exiler en

Afrique, pas un soul pays alcain ne los accopicrait pour la bonno

raison. que lous ces pays sont soumis au joug de l'impérialieme

Toutes les polites bourgeoisies contre-révolutionnaires au peu.

voir en Mírique sont intéodies à Jolingon, et exploitent leur pro-

pros frères de coulcur.

- Quelle ect votre túche principalo en ce moment. Celle qui ro-

quiert actuellemont la priorité.

D'abord, éliminer nos enncalis,

c'est-a-dire lous les mouvements

contre-révolutionnaires voulant s'intégrer à la socidió capitalisto

blanche.

Ensuito, organiser notre peuple pour qu'il nequierre le mordant ol-

fensif, condition sine qua non pour briser le statut quo d'anjourd'hui.

Car c'est bien cola que signilic la lulle défensive des Luther King

et autres.

Pour vaincre, il s'agit d'allaquer, C'est un programme minimum.

Intorview téléphonique d Radio-La Havano

Déclaration de Commideil à 1a

---

## Page 141

13-00000

lau à des percentre crane elles

Audi de may date ratara des tie concerar.

1!.is.

sinoly parle de reguasillo

Cli? 191949.

Mine. Gros simile, 1l

la bae dne de tenage de mes podomer:

sune tarose surpris nu mut du il.

Le solide, mot nvode panió le notrée

est-cirito.

Lort,

cing concrades: note partena tris

libersant.

caulorils de le traduction. Les elle

TELAIBA.

Tolubir of a perpoter la societ capitancie.

- Pratiquement, comment lout cela peutill d'agencer?

En organicant les Noire: Mictoriguemont, nous venons lous d'Atri-

qu0. Ton nous danperant dand leur monde, los Manen occidentaux

nous oisi apprio, par la nérative cotes, mais nous ont applis quand

mêmo à apprécier Punité. Nous davont aujourdhui, que l'unito, c'est

In pronaco. Oest pour realear cot ingératif dunio que nous a-

vone avréo, dane un promier temps, de nous rendeer culturellement,

en rejetant lo chriotionieme (culture damasition, lióo à l'idéo do su-

piématio do la cullino des Blancs occidentaux).

•- Le problemo à récondro est eclui de créer des révolutionnaires

nuiro. Pour nous, cola. signilio 3 objeclilo :

1. Adoplion d'une langue nationie africaino : le swahille par

схотріс:

2.

Destruction du christianisme.

3. Redécouvrir l'Afriquo, inis

d'une manlere scienlifique, pour y

puiser ros propres hisos, nu lieu d'anonner les héros blancs

occidentaux.

En somme, recréor notre culture pour en laire une force do coló-

sion.

Dégager uno idéologie polilique commune. A cot égard l'expérion-

co de In Révolution chinoise est riche d'exemples mobilisalcurs.

Notro licho à nous est de luller pour acquérir une isenlogie cor-

recle, capablo d'unilior tous les Noirs.

•La choso fondamentale a retenir, c'est de contribuer a

développer

conscienco qui

doit amenor l'Américain noir à résister. Celle

consclenco est nécessalro.

de l'assasonar de Mann Torhor "King"

La quorre du guérilla

dons les villos

merd-annerlane malatlante mon puerre de prédile desd dos sillos

Bront en prison of liler to in

Maclr.160d

Meurtin

Anther lois:

ond commis une trave errear oreil

ile.

a poir doraler den ville dis;.

melero duces du Moliere, di.

dirogrand node nes prenne dires

tord de drood dend ségosse alléguero

Fresey des so puse brides le dibee do pud Passacabrag de Cine male destina

riges à fond dans le disulod

- Aller sols, enum courig t

cule de parge de de sartler so temm

le salime impérialicles Jour mets,

le décrasalés des die dissoles dles des sigalé

incondien, den cunp de toli, deo ce.

Ite es doy morts dl est doldent en poiree viere. le bous donnerre mere

y mur dentre Inckdente de soc.ee tle pour go arriver,

---

## Page 142

13-00000đ

JERIS

---

## Page 143

APPEALS REVIEW FORM

334

abg-15 contains mEmo

B-191

dated 9 Det. 1968

Is previously denica in toto under exemption(s) bilLiaisoN) bibE ECLA

Segregable portions previously relcased;

excised portions exempted

under

) Located during the DDO appeals review.

Referred to DO for review by

rther description, identification, comments, and/or referrals, etc.

RECOMMEND:

Sustain initial denial in

toto under exemption (s) (6)(U 6413) of FOIA

( ) ADD exemption (s)

Sustain initial release of sanitized version with excised portions

exempted under

( ) ADD exemption'(s)

(• ) DROP exemption(s)

Release additional information with excised portions exempted under

Deny docunent in tuto under exemption (s) -

of

'Release a sanitized version with excised portions exempted under

exemptions clted shove are being clained to protect the following:

Information fron i foreign liaison service

• Informatlon pertaining to a foreign liaison relationship

informat lou which would/em identify the source

In Formation portaining to a source

Informatlon pertaining to intelligence methods

Location

of CIA overseas

installation

Location

of unachnowledged domestic installation

Names of CIA enployee.s

File number

Pseudonym

Cryptonym

Internal orgunizational data

*Name

of FBI agent

FBI file number

Privacy of other individuals

OTHER

MENTS and/or. SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS.

ing the DDO classification review, this document which was marked

SECRET

maintained

classified to

declassified

desunsitired

downgraded

1:2

INPDET

C.I.

BY 012170

T 1OD 51

---

## Page 144

13-00000

1 UNCLSSIFIED

* INTERNAL

USE ONLY

C7 & FIDENTIAL

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

EXT SECRET

WRECT Onl

1044:

D: ¡Dracer desigrater, roore number, eral

DATE

EXTEMSION

5847

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

RECEIVED

FORWADDED

NO.

B-191

DATE

9 October 1963

COMMENTS (Number each common! la show from whor

Drove a line across colum offas toch comment.)

L/2S

Originated by: WH/7/R/PR01son

(8 October 08)

Based on: HJK-251

a... para

405

"b.

para 406

c. • para 411

d.: para 413

€.

para 417.

I.:

para 420

Disseminated to:

FBI on

•IU Uct 68

410 9 P9N99 F71 SECRET

I CONFIDENTINL TY

Filet

B-Menos

(record copy)

CC:

CC:

100-300-44

PROD

TROD

EVES ONLY

WTERNAL

8-191

HNTIASSIEIEN

---

## Page 145

13-00000

9 G07 1262

SUBJECT:

jamalca/imited States Black Power Fios

2. The item of poasible interest, omitted from the

dissentration, aro sotad below:

Pening Anel 1959, Ion metings of the Tilson

-faction of tha Nation of Islam (NOI)

ters beld.

1:3 April, Darey Hayles, the boxer,

said that he

Inpressed to the doctrine and had written

to Fligan

ohanned mistag for a scholarship to chable iim to

Study 1n on 01 the

Islan Universities in the United

"States. Errol lavy said tiat only a ravolation could

end the chito nan's practice of roobing the biack

people of everything.

At tbe meting on 24 Ayril, Cecil (Prince

Buster) Campbell stated that the premises

Street in Kingsion belonged to lin and he vas villing

for it to bo used for the assistance of the binck ince.

Ne called for unity among biack pedole and said that

orgarization sas fighting to mie jamaica.

told nembers that thay should be prepared to neat the

"Reverend Sherifts (axa. Thomas View) pho would soon ba

visiting the Islaad.

On the 5th and Sth of April,

discussions vers

it-hold led by George Vassel, leader of the Young Jociallat

FULL TEXI COPK -- OR MUT RELEASE

CLASTIFCATICN REVER

COND TO ON 3841978

EeR MOE CL6Y 360552

---

## Page 146

#00000

- 2o nara

League and a bomber of the jansican (Caribbeaa)

Forkers lovenent,

on the posalblitty of holdlag

demonstrations nt the American Enbassy in Kineston

lo protest agaiust the assasinaiion of Dr. Martin

Vassel Clained that there rag a United

Stotes citizen alding 1a janaica to escape the drait

no had la bis possession racordings of speeches

nada

3y tha lota lalcoln i during 1939.

One of tbose vas

ontitlod "The Ballot or Bullets", He stated that King's

death disproned bis theory of nor yiolence and was

beloglag lato prostoence nen 1119 Btorely Carnichael

and H. Rap Brown.

rl.

During April, about

40 persons including

Tinaton llonroe, foseph Christie,

Roy Joffrey, Leonard

Soloon and one fy Survad, wao is the Anerican dralt

escapee referred to ln Paragraph c. abovo, net at

23 Inuth Street, Trench Town (Dallas Corner), Wherg

Suryad,

identified as a Blacks Muslin abd & nember of

the Blach Power Wovenent (BPM), an ared questione put

to hin by the gathering.

It was wierstood that Surind

222m

in gassie

to solicit support for the BPM In the

indted States as vell as to establtsh a braach here.

the record

"The Ballot or Bullets" was played by

Survad und recorded by lonre.

Sumad accepted Georgo Hyeny® invitation to

attend a get togather which be 12s aragzing in Savana

Ianiar on 11 1á7, and to spend a veer or too with his

thers,: They discussed the Congress of Racial Equxlity

•(CORS) and tho SPY, 200 1t vag Suggested that & 10ca1

: Steering Connittee should be appointed to consider the

formation of a group in Jamaica.

Survad bas subee

quentiy veen quenctiled 29 vong lavis, ala Selvya Grey,

a member pi CoRs and the 31ack Justing,

vity instatariane at lintyrs, and the leaders of the

Viking and Spade Cangs..

Ro is expecting to meet one

¿Corporal Jnnes, tica

"imary" of the Javale, Defenco

Force, tho is said to have complained that he vas

deprived oi propotion because of his views.

Arrange

no0ts vero 2130 boing made for hin to neet

Raltes Rodney

of the University of the West indles.

Suryad has stated

---

## Page 147

13-00.000

Shat 12 given the chence he would, vitbia eizuceen

months,

stage n demonstration.

he has suggested that

18 his colleagues can supply

marijuana dad

find a vay

to export it,

be

could aurantee an outlet in the

United Staies and the noney thus obtrined could be

ised to Linanco tha local lovenent.

Survad vas being

-supparted by

his glolfriend, Bornadine liorszon, Tho

was

expected to arrive from the United States towarde

the and of the ensuing month.

lle is now in straitened

clicunatancer,)

(8 October 1968)

Distribution:

w/att

0x 23) - C1/0P8/D0

1 - HH/T/B/JATS

C/w8/7/JA73

Based on:

AJK-251

D. ∞ para 405

para 406

C..

naza 411

para 413

para

417

para 420

---

## Page 148

13-00000

TAB #235

NoT

INCLUDEN

---

## Page 149

300000

APPEALS REVIEV FORM

336

Tab 72-

722 Contains Two Lettu literps

( ) Previously denied in toto under exemption (s)

dated Sept 1711962

of

(.) Segregable portions previously released;

excised portions exempted

under

of

X) Located during the DDO appeals review.

( ) Referred to DDO for review by

Further description, identification, comments, and/or referrals, etc.

I RECOMMEND:

( )

Sustain

initial denial in toto under exemption (s)

0f

( ) ADD exemption(s)

( ) DROP exemption(s)..

( ) Sustain initial release of sanitized version with excised portions

exempted under

(.)

ADD exemption(s)

( ) DROP exemption (s)

( ) Release additional information with excised portions exempted under

Of Deny document in toto under exemption (s) (026)

() Release a sanitized version with excised portions exempted under

of

of FOLE

The exemptions citéd above

are being clained to protect

the following:

Information from a foreign liaison service

Information pertaining

to a foreign liaison relationship

Information which would/could identify the source

Infornation pertaining to a source

Information pertaining

to intelligence methods

Location of CIA overseas installation

Locacion

of acknowledged domestic installation

Name®

Of CIA

employee

File number

Pseudonyn

Cryptonym

Internal organizational data

Name

of FBI agent

FBI file number

13 OTHER

Privacy of other individual

772242422

review, this document which was marked

was:

maintained

classitied

to

doclassified

desensitized

downgraded to

1A UNCLISDIFIED.

CONFIDENTIAL

SECRET

E2 IMPDET

CL BY

012170

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 150

13-00000

AFTERS DAYS RETURNTO!

BERNICE MOBINSON

22 DEWEY ST

CHARLESTON SC 29403

- TPAi AVIS

VIA AIR N

Miss. Martin Wither King for.

230 Sunset sue NiW.

Atlanta, Heargia

---

## Page 151

13-00000

Teners:,

Decer 9i Fing:

seizza Strader Liver, I stiled a little trion

in East Hermany, Called Nerakut;

The Miarian. Church Coldest ins..

bernhat official, hosted our group.

deng bes nit their taus ties

hushands hiss on pile in their

one good Bistectors.

A lose nan whis is head of the.

spenith work in Hersheet, ingermed un

That they are setting if a hoose

in the spast leiter, in sinon

r. King!

He wanted yous address

so that he could wisite and let you

Kiss what they were doing and

The reapect they have for Dry King

Merang, I gave"

I am sariting to let are Rision That;

if i havest beard from hion

spet, spose nise he reciving Ass.

tions frans, Dietrichs Neis

89 Goshitz D. D. R., Bautgeness Str,: 38.,

And none oute he aware of what is

Yes in The And tien

Kermanig torose, a population of sch

2,06e.

Reapert quite,

Pernice V. Kitese

22 Dewey Street

Charlectise, 2. C. 27443

---

## Page 152

13-00000

1o ran.

Куда .

Pers lure to li

Кому

VA-62

Sept 17,1969

4 SA

Apec opum Licew AЗА

Rica,

lers bartin setter.

234 Surset Ove

Worth west itlaut

Додіа і 30314 !

Dean wies Kine

Pise wens ags got the bans

You so kindly sent me and inmedickly

auswered you.

Duly today us waites

and a halot, - came youn

Ester with

a reprict of

Tarkick In case

Bly lizst letter will not reich you

perinal me to repeat - it mas ou

resousability - to get a letter

payelar

love seel the a cop a tee,

Рідня2,

C1.

BiRe

Fer then

King do I coul a

39525 B

---

## Page 153

13-00000.

New

work Haul i audi les tiü ferther Kise

EacH

trip do the laud of

Lind hi.

Rous to beers.

get some cliches see

the

Price, - how it w....

?

veter

road.

shee at

Se is the peeie?..

essay, audia,

learti,

I hope it wil?

published al last alich It will

the possibility to send it to

I done body in your countie

will plau

inberrational serfstil

5 1.2.

Jestin

King, Please, bet le

woell? ве жу.

deepest wish to contribeche,

I hage you

will vot consider this,

wish

imwodest,- It i very. serisus, Thoug.

If course, I could not

be the judge

WOrK

- thaus you agin clean ns hie.

for your

le then:

Passer ver bire.

---

## Page 154

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 155

13-00000

I UNCLASSIFIED

CONFIDENTIAL

SECRET

TOP

SECRET

337

APPEALS REVIEW FORM

Tab

5 contains Call

_ dated Lina

1272.

I. () Previously denied in toto undeferation s

to not dis The the

FOlE

(.) Located during the DDO appeals review.

• ( ) Referred to DDO for review by

Furtice description, identification, corments, and/or referrals, etc.

4. I RECOMMEND:

( )

Sustain initial denial in toto under exemption (s)

1 ADD exemption (s)

of

() Sustain initial release of sanitized version with excised portions

exempted under

ADD exemption (s)

DROP exemption(s)

( ) Release additional information

with excised portions exempted under

( ) Deny document in toto under

exemption (s)

sanitized version with excised portions exempted under

(61(0(4)(3)

F01A

of

The exemptions cited above are being claimed to protect the following:

Information from a foreign liaison service

Intormation

pertaining

to a foreign

liaison relationship

Information which would/could identify the source

Information pertaining to a source

Information pertaining to intelligence methods

Location

Of CIA overseas

installation

Location

of unacknowledged domestic installation

Name

of CIA employee

File number

Pseudonym

Cryptonyms

Internal

organizational data

Name

of FBI

agent,

FBI file number

Privacy of other individual

OTHER

6.

COMMENTS and/or SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS.

0. 40

this document which wa

maintained

classified

declassified

desensitized

dongraded to confidential

UNCLASSIFTEE

CONFIDENTIAL

• SECRET

B? EMPDET

CT. BY 012770

I TOP SECRET

---

## Page 156

13-00000

19 14 1326471

1915AEZ MAY TI CITE

FEAD QUARIER 5

MACHAOS

REF: HEADQUARTERS/

IO IN FINAL COVERAGE OR 18 MAY OF WPE, WHICH ENDED 16 MAY,

FRESS HAS MADE FOLLOMINE ADDITIONAL OBSERVATIONS RE US.

PARTICIPANIS:

A. SIDNEY PECK, DEMIFIED. AS "USA PROFESSOR,*

SPOIG AT COMBRESS ON VIEI RAM WARE

BE UPC HAS AWARDED JOL IDI CLRIE GOLD MEDICH

ST HUMOUSLY

TO REY MARTIN LUTHER KING. PEDAL ACCEPTED BY REV RALPH

ABERNATHY AND REVNOW AL RER AN AMERICANZTEACE FIGHTER."

PHOTOGRAPN (POUCHED) OF PRESENTATION ALSO PICTIRES DES. DELEGATES

Co I.S: DELESATES PLIN GA OR - COLE Y'AIO SYLVIA

FLECHER ISIO SPOKE AI MEETING OF INDOCHINESE ANO

AMERICAN

Smite DELEGATE SO

AMERICANS HERBERT A PT HE KER AND CAPLION G

REELECTED TO FRESDENIIAL SOARD.

2 .

POUCHING

NOST SIGNIFICANT PRESS COVERAGE OF

COUNCIL SESSIONS

APPROVED FOR RELEASE

Date 10 Macual 19:78

OODWELT

54.

---

## Page 157

13-00000

19 14 132164171

191348Z NAY 71 CITE

FEAD QUARTERS

• CHAOS

• REF: HEADQLARTERS/

I. IB FINAL COVSRAGE ON 18 MAY OF WPE, WHICH ENDED 16 MAY,

LOCAL PRESS HAS MADE FOLLOWINE ADDITIONAL OBSERVAIIONS RE WAS+

PARTICIPANIS:

AO SIDNEY PE ENO DEMIFIED AS "USA PROFESSOR,"

SPONE AT CONGRESS ON VIET RAM WAR.

BO WPC HAS AUDEDED NOI IOT CUTIE GOLD MEDIEN

ST HUNOUSLY

IO REV MARIIN LUTHER KING. MEDAL ACCEPTED BY REV RALPH

ABERHATTY AND REVEAHAL HER AN AMERICANNEAGE FIGHTER""

PHOTDERAPH (POUCHED) OF PRESEHTATION ALSO PICILES UCS. DELEGATES

WILLIAMDOURIHARD

AS IRS. ADDIE NYAIT

Go BaSe DELEGATES RUTH GAGE- COLBY MD SY.VIA

KUS CHER (SIC) SPOKE AI MEETING OF ERDOCHINESE AND

AMERISIS DELEGATES.

D. ANERICANS HERBERT A PINEKER

AND CARLTON GOODIETI

REELECTED TO FRESDENTIAL BOARD a

POUCHINE MOST SIGMIFICANT FRESS COVERAGE OF

COUNCIL SESSIONS-

A ARCHONED FOR MCLEASE

Dilla

---

## Page 158

13-00000

SE CRET 191JAOL NAY TI CITE

017

READ QUARTERS

RYBAT MHCURB MACHAOS

• REF: HEAD QUARTERS 2789

1.. IN FINAL COVERAGE ON 18 NAY OF WPC, WHICH ENDED 16 MAY,

LOCAL. FRESS HAS MADE FOLLOWING ADDITIONAL OBSERVATIONS RE U.S.

PARTICIPANI S=

A. SIDNEY PE CK, IDENTIFIED AS "USA PROFESSOR,"

SPOXE AT CONGRESS ON VIET NAI WAR •

BO UPC HAS ANARDED JOLIDI CURIE GOLD MEDIESE SIHUMOUSLY

TO REV MARTIN LUTHER KING. MEDAL NECEPTED BY REM RALPH

ABERMATHY AND REVW-WAL KER "AN AMERICANMEACE FIGNTER."

PHOIOGRAPH (POUCHED) OF FRESENTATION ALSO PICIURES U.S, DELEGATES

WILLIAMDOURIHARD

ERS• ADDIE MYAII.

Eo U.S. DELEGATES RUTH G AGENC OLS Y AND SYLVIA

HUSCHER (SIC) SPOKE AI NEGTING OF INDOCHINESE AND

9n: 86/2119

DO AMERICANS HERBERI A PI ME KER AND CARLIONE OODLETE

REELECTED TO FRESIDENTIAL BOARD •

2a STATION POUCHING MOST SIGNIFICANT PRESS COVERAGE OF

COUNCIL SESSIONS*

GP-/

POLL TEXT CONY -- DO NOT RELEASE

287081978 3/-131

200060525

CONFIDETA

Downgraged to

---

## Page 159

13-00000

1-8

---

## Page 160

13-00000

UNCLASSIFIED.

_ CONFIDENTIAL

SECRET

TOP SECRET

APPEALS REVIEW FORM

338

1. Tab

85 contains

75-2628

( ) Previously denied in toto under exemption (s)

dated al hey thi

segregabie portions previousty

released; excised portions exempted

under (6)(1 14)(2)(43)/615)

0F 2012

() Located during the DDO appeals review.

() Referred to DDO for review by

3.. Further description, identification, comments, 'and/or referrals, etc.

4.

I RECOMMEND:

5.

( )

Sustain initial denial in toto under exemption (s)

ADD exemption (s)

of

& DROP exemption (s)

()

Sustain initial release of sanitized version with excised portions

exempted under

ADD exemption(s)

(3 DROP exemption (s)

additional information

with excised portions exempted under

(5) 111613)

( ) Deny document in toto under exemption(s)

of

A Release a sanitized version

with excised portions exempted under

The exemptions cited

above are being claimed to protect the following:

InFormation

fron a foreign liaison service

Information pertaining

to a foreign

liaison relationship

Information which would/could identify the source

Information pertaining to a source

Information pertaining to intelligence methods

Location

of CIA overseas installation

Location

of unacknowledged. domestic installation

of CIA employee

File numbers

Pseudonym

CryptonymS

Internal organizational data

of FBI agent

FBI file number

Privacy of other individuall

6.

i and tenth

FREI

mintained

classitied

to

declassified

lesensitized

dungraded to confidential

Нена і м

E2

IMPDET

CL BY 012170

PA CONFIDENTTA .

---

## Page 161

13-00000

B- 2628

21 MAY 1977

SUBJECT:

Americans Attending

the World Peace Council (WPC)

Conference in Budapest, Hungary, 13-16

May 1971

I. A reliable source has reported that the following

Mericans

spoke at the indicated committee meetings of the

HPC Conference:

A. Stanley FAULCER, Committee on

European Peace

.and Security;

B. Sylvia XUSINER, Committee on Indochina Aggression;

C.

John GIllial, Connittee on the Near East;

D. Mary Angle DickersOn, Section Meeting Discussing

Discrimination:

E. LuiS GARZA,

Section Meeting Discussing Dis-

crinination; and

F. Ruth GAGE-COLB%, Conmittee on Disarmament-

All of the above-named peisons vere identified specifically

as nembers of the U.S. delegation.

Z.

According to the same source, S. FAULKYER,

President of the American National Lawyers'. Association,

functioned as President in a meeting of lawyer delegates

to the Congress and the American delegate Albert KAHN

cranslated a message fron the widow of artist Rockwell

KENT to the Conference.

sace, which ended 16 May, the lungarian Press made

final coverage on 18 May of the WPC Confer-

following additional observations regarding United States

parricipants:

A. Sidney PECk, identified as "USA Professor,"

spoke on the

war in Vietnam;

PHOVED FOR RELEASE

---

## Page 162

13-00000

B.

The KPC awarded the JOLIOT-CURIE GOLD MEDAL

posthumously to the Reverend Martin Luther

KING.

The medal was accepted by the Reverend

Ralph ABERNATHY and the Reverend Wyatt T.

WALKER,

"an American peace fighter." A photo-

graph

of the presentation ceremony also

included

Willian DOUTHARD and Mrs. Addie WYATT as U.S.

delegates to the Conference;

C.

U.S. delegates Ruth GAGE-COLBY and Sylvia

KUSHNER. spoke at a

meeting of Indochinese and

American delegates; and

D:

Americans Herbert APTHEKER and Cariton GOODLETT

were

re-elected

to the Presidential Board of

the WPC-

For previous information on Subject, please refer

-dated 14 May 1971.

Subject:

and

Please bansmit reply via

charmed

Originated by

Based on.

a.18 May 71

Source:

Say FEL

Hungarian Press

Distribution:

Original

-FBI (Mr. Wannall) via

1. - В тето

chrono

extra copy

courier

KING/ Sen

6202-760966

routiction

Production

---

## Page 163

13-00000

B- 2628

21 MAY 1971

SUBJECT: Americans Attending the World Peace Council (WPC)

Conference, in budapest, Hungary, 13-16 May 1971

the following

Americans spoke at the indicated committee meetings of the

WPC Conference:

A.

F

3..

In

its final coverage on 18 May of the

WPC Confer-

ence, which ended l6 May, the lungarian Press made the

following additional observations regarding United States

participants:

A.

Sidney PECK, identified as "USA Professor,"

spoke on the war in Vietnam;

Precisial

A APPROVED FOR RELEASE

Date

1 9 AUG 1976

---

## Page 164

13-00000

B.

C.

D.

The WPC awarded the JOLIOT-CURIE GOLD MEDAL

posthumously to the

Reverend Martin Luther

KING.

The medal was accepted by the Reverend

Ralph ABERYATHY and the Reverend Wyatt T.

VALKER,

"an American peace fighter."

A photo

graph of the presentation ceremony also included

William DOUTHARD and Mrs. Addie WYNTT as U.S.

delegates to the Conference:

U.S. delegates Ruth GAGE-COLBY and Sylvia

KUSHNER spoke at a meeting of Indochinese and

American delegates; and

Americans Herbert APTHEKER and Cariton GOODLETT

were re-elected to the Presidential Board of

the WPC.

4

Please transn't reply

Originated by:

•Based on:

Source:

Distribution:

Original - FBI

1

via

courier

pond frand

---

## Page 165

13-00000

HO FOREICH DISSEMINO DISSEN SARUAL

B- 2628

21 HAY 1971

SUBJECT:

Americans Attending the World Peace Council (VPC)

Conference in Budapest, Hungary, 13-16 May, 1971

1. A reliable source has reported that the following

Americans spoke at the indicated conmittee meetings of the

WPC Conference:

A.

Stanley FAULKNER, Conmittee on European Peace

and Security;

B. Sylvia KUSHNER, Conmittee on Indochina Aggression;

C.. John GILMAN, Committee on the Near East;

D. Mary Angie DICKERSON, Section Meeting Discussing

Discrimination;

E-LUXS GARLA, Section Meeting Discussing Dis

crimination;

and

F: : Ruch GAGE-COLBY, Committee on Disarmament

All of the above-named persons

were identified specifically

as members of the U.S. delegation.

According to the same source, S. FAULKNER, "Vice

President of the American National Lawyers' Association,"

functiquedras President in a meeting of lawyer delegates

to the Congress and the American delegate: Albert KAHN

translated a message from the widow of artist Rockwell

KENT to the Conference."

In its final coverage on 18 May of the WPC Confer:

ence, which ended 16 May, the Hungarian Press made the

following additional observations regarding United States

participants:

A.

Sidhey PECK, identified as "USA Professor,"

spoke on the war in Vietnam;

CLASSIAIGATION REVIEW

PONFIDENTIN

SCONCUCTED CH / Sept 78

O UDET CL BY 0.60520

Downgraded to

360575

by authority

dato: -

FULL TEXT COPY - DO NOT. RELEASE

NO FOREIGN DISSEMINO DISSE ABROAD

PRINCE

GABLE T

03RI26188 611

---

## Page 166

13-00000

PRINTO

NO. FORDEN DISSEMIMO DISSELL ABROAD.

B.

The NPC

awarded the JOLIOT-CURIE GOLD MEDAL

posthumously to the Reverend Martin Luther

KING.

The medal was accepted by the Reverend

Ralph ABERNATHY and the Reverend Wyatt T.

WALKER,

"an American peace fighter."

A photo-

graph of the presentation ceremony also included

William DOUTHARD and Mrs. Addie WYATT as U.S.

delegates to the Conference;

C.

U.S. delegates Ruth GAGE-COLBY and Sylvia

KUSHNER spoke at a meeting of Indochinese and

American delegates; and

D. Americans Herbert APTHEKER and Carlton GOODLETT

were re-elected to the Presidential Board of

the WPG.

4..

For previous information on Subject, please refer

to our teletype 3216, dated 14 May 1971,

Subject:

Ralph

David ABERNATHY and Dr. Carlton GOODLETT.

Please transmit roply via: CACTUS chanel

Originated

Based on:

• Bv: CT/S0:1

18 May

(WPC/Sens/BW) and

19 May. 71 (WPC/Sens/BW)

Source:

JKLANCE/Hungarian Press

Distribution:

Original - FBI (Mr. Wannall) via CI/SO courier

1

- B memo chrono

- extra copy

- WPC/Sens/BY

- FAULKNER/-Sens/GNK (201-354414/GK)

1

-. KUSHNER/Sens/BW (201-878516/BW)

- GILMAN/ Sens/BW (new)

- DICKERSON/Sens/BW (201-854982/BW)

1

- GARZA/Sens/BW (new)

- COLBY/Sens/GNK (201-053968/GK)

- KAHN/Sens/EC

- KENT, Mrs. / Sens/GK (201-221724/GK)

- PECK/Sens/BW (201-830466/BW)

KING/Sens/JD (201-760966/JD)

1

1

- ABERNATHY/ Sens/JD. (201-853022/JD)

- WALKER/Sens/JD:

1

1

1

1

1

- DOUTHARD/Sens/BW (201-857634/BW)

- WYATT/Sens/ Biv

• APTHEKER/Sens/ BW

1(201-757176/BV)

- GOODLETT/Sens/BN (201-742726/BW)

- Production Budapest

- Production JKLANGE

- NO FOREIGN DISSEMIND DISSEM ABROAD

CONIDENTI

01.7,

---

