# 104-10133-10239

## Page 1

104-10133-10239

15-2

CIA MISTORICAL-RENEW PROGRAM.

APPROVED FOR REM

COI HISTORIALRI

PROGRAM

Masferrer claimed that his Haiti invasion

"plot was approved by the U. S. Government (varying

between the CIA and the FBI as. the approving

agency). While the CIA approval claim was untrusTURed

Agency concern, at the time, centered around t Blackground Use Only

possibility of unfavorable publicity and the

compromise of sources and methods if the Agency Do Not Reproduce

was

forced to disprove Masferrer's charges in

blown

apart by a bomb in Florida. No further

details regarding his death were

contained in

his subject files.

Since Masferrer has never

been affiliated with the Agency, despite his

should

claims be referred to the FBI for information

it is believed that Dade County officials

regarding Masferrer.

c. Luciano Nieves--Office of Security files

contain only polygraphARD 12010g intornation

regarding Luciano Nieves Mestre, date and place

of birth รณ October 1933, Santa Clara Cuba.

Neves was, polygraphed on 4 February 1966 in

Florida.

It was developed that"

was a Cuban

national who had been arrested, tried, and

sentenced to 20 years in

Cuba for allegedly

being involved in ananti-Castro plot.

He was

released in March-1965 after serving approxi-

mately 16 months of his sentence and went to

Sadia briefly where he was of interest to the

In August 1965 he entered the

united. staces and in November 1965 was contacted

by Directorate of Operations (DIO) representatives.

From November 1965 until approximately January

1966 he was of operational interest to the DDo.

It is noted that the DDO maintains a

201 file (201-788521) regarding Subject and it

is believed that the Office of Security would

have to defer any decision regarding the release

Lof information concerning Nieves to the DDO.

2

SEMET

---

