# 104-10100-10391

## Page 1

104-10100-10391

der Coet

5582

120% FESSAGE AS DELUN

CLASSIED, MESS

14351

NeT

??.?

0 Nor 63.

04.422

Darlin CEM

ROUTING

ROUTINE

99

C:: 319

81421

PUSAND

WORLD EFIET

24

INOFORN IN SLANTS REMAININE INTO RELIABILS TO

1. SOVIET IFTELLICTTAL COLINATE TODAY: UNITARS OU THE LIERRAL

PERSUABION BERN TO BI FAINT NEED IN CROON LOT IN LAST

SPRINGS CULTURAL "RAVAKIAS. " CONSEEVATIVIS A STILL VOCAL IN THUTE

CRITICISH AND SHALSHLHRY APFEARS TO RATE REYHIND TO A POSITION

ON ERLATIVE NEUTRALITY, COUP:

2:.

SOTIET MOTIVES IF SRALLENDYNG ALLIED REBLIN ACCISS: THE

BATHST ATTORAN INCIDERT AS A FURTHER I DICATION THAT HOSCON I

ITS TO COUTINEN MARISSIN SEIEND COPWOYS TO OVERCONS ATIE

HILLINESS EILACE A NEY BOLD OF DIPLONATIC NICOTIATION

ON FADIOS, MOTIO RATED TO "TE STATUS OF WIST BERLIN. MOTH

TASE AND NONCON RADIO CLAIN THE INCITEME WAS THE REBULT OF A

36:102

EATING DILL IS PROMIBITED:

STOCATING

0691cg.0.

Copy No

1524

---

## Page 2

1: 406x

na lanes

#Ner 63 64 422

1231.

CiTE DiR

81421

"DELIRIRATR PROVOCATION. " THE LABE APPARENTLY DEBINKE TO AYOID

THE RISE OF BVEN A LINTPID MILITANY CONRONATION.

3. CATARA. I MER PERTION COTHARIÃT TE LIVININO ITO DEPENDS

POLIC, TITH THE LIE OT ANYURING THAT CARIA'S LILITANT LSTABLINNHBIT

XS MORE OOMBRIITRATI VITE ITS POSTTION AS A MITHDRE CRARIO POMER,

THIS POLICY NEVIST IN OUTOITH OF ICUNITO DIASINGS IN TH DEVI

DETAETIRIY OVER CAP NEVERE OTTAVAS MILITANT CONTINITE AND REHOUICH

TO CARAY THEN OUT. ALTHODOR BONE CUTS IN KAPENDITURES HAVE HERE

MADE AND NORS ARB KIPICTED, AN LARY ANXFT IN THE SOVIRMINT'S POLICY

TO ACCEET NUCLEAR WEAPONS JOB E AID CAKADIAN FORCIS STATIOND I!

CARATA 18 MLYERLY, 1Y ERY NICE A CRACKPIL SAY OF GITIRE US À

BUTLER SOLE ONCE THE -1'98 AND NO ANCE BECOR ONBOLETE. / /

d. ITALT: THE POLITICAL BITUATION IS MARKING TIR, FOLLOWING

PREMIER LERONES KESIGRATION AND PRIDINE PRESIDENT BIGNIS APPOINTICNT

SE & MISA DISINTO MINITY 1D IOV. IP MIDC MORO SECELIARY OF

TRIA TIAN PENNEATIC METT D INCIDID ME MISTITS OF HIS EFFORTS:

TO PET TOGETHER A MET CENTEN LIFT SOTERCENT TIML PROBABLY BE KNOWN

RY TATPA BITE IN, MAEL SANCHING WITH ME LOCidIOTO IS iN

ANGELE

NO OTHER HAN THEISSUING DEFICE IS PROHIBITED

---

## Page 3

LCLASSINEO ME

80: 963 64422

RIJIINE

irs

- PACE THREZ-

PROSPECT. IRONITO OUT & MUTUALLY ACCIPTABLE LEUIBIATIVE PHOGRAN

HAS VIT TO BE FACED UP TO. IMPROVINO THE PROSPICES FOR BUCCHRBDUL

NECOTIATICNE IS TIE FOBITION OF TAB CHUNCH WICH BRES TO HAVE

THILADES SOMPIRAT IS QUORITIGN TO A LIGIS IN UNICE TUS CHATATIÁE

DEMOCRATE AND SOCLILIAT TOLLO BE FASTERS.

S. FIAN: LONG FINISH CANINET CRISIS BUND 31 OCT TEN

PARTY CIVIL ELVATI TO TILL, FONTE VACATIO BY TURNS UNION PIPESISHTA-

FIVES VE WI9IU41 TRON THE CABINET LABT ADO IN TROTATE ONER A COT-

KHMENT FOOTATAS TO SATIE PRICES, THIN LSPIIGAURO A ANTIO TO TAR

RIGHT BY THE AGRARIATE NIO MVICULY HAD DECLARED TILT HOULD JUT

PAITICTRATE IN A CABIRST VEICH DID NOT INCLUTE LANDR RAMARARITATIVES

INCUMSUIT OIPICIALS HAVE MATATRID DIRTE CO CABINES POSTA, UNILE TAR

HIY OES RATI PREN ASBIGNED TO TOSTO OR MINOR IMPORTANES, ONE

TOBITUFIT VITE TIR ABRARRAE LETTVIRO, BULONES TO A BARLE PACTION

WEICH ADVOCATES CONFUJAT RAITICIMATION IN TIL OVIRANHE, (CONT)

Ó. COMON BAREST: CUNNI NESTINGE LE BRUTALA CE SEC CONCIL

AND AGRICULTURAL MINISTERS MAY DETERMINE WHETHER BONN AND PARIS RIPT

OVIE A COMMON AGEICULTUIAL FOLICE ES, DIE PRINTO DATO-AN IRFECONCILAEN

1?C.83

REPRODUCTION DY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING ONCE IS FROMIBUEDY

---

## Page 4

• %

+ 910053-91.422

DA SEN

e.::

7O

inFo

CHE D 81481

- PROR FOUR-

BINTUTZ. ON KEY INSUR OF CRATA PRICES ANSHERS IS ACADERLS

POPETIOLE FOR OPIUOI

ВЕ, ТЕЗ "ВТОВКЕ ВОГУТТОМ, ДО РіХ РІСТЬ

MAN LAYLLA, APPEARS TO

китом тала мет. і

21512

PROTONAL SO COTUS 1

tonity to cations.

TO CURTIS PARASIS THE GA

OGDERVATION ETASION IN VEISH I

LE JAS OUTY ATTER CHONN PRINCE

PAYBAL HAD RECBIVIN ASPURANCES QUAN IS LU HOULD ENIRT STRON:

JENSSURE ON SEYES TO ACIOR ITU

08 SEE RAPESTARIN, PAYBAL 14S

DATE TY CHIAR THAT EE TTLE HE DAFIATISO ONLI LE CAINO CANCELY

TURNS ALL EXA FRONTE VISA THI SORTIELS EXCEPTION OR A SMALL

MILITATI ABUSBONE MINSION, MI PAGRARY DOUNTE THAT EGYPT VIZE DO

NI, A ME FUR OWN ADONT WAISTS

APTIR THE LU IRITOS INATTO, MONTARY CHITBRE I THORT, FOS

A MATE, AFIETY NEMAINS DETZRHINED TO REDICE DE INVOLVETTIN

KABIR IS CONTINCID; TO MAINERIN 3O.OUO GUO TO TAT TATA I: EL

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFROP IS PROHIBITEO

---

## Page 5

ROUNNG F

5

.6

10o 019?2

ROUTINE

BANI

cirt sia 8/4D/

-MGE FIVE-

WAS MATILE SEOCASES IN TORKINO OUT A POLITICAL SITTINBIT THAT

BOULD FLACATI TRIBES NON BORTILE DO TER SRPUBLICAN LIGNIE, HIS

ESPORTS TO MERLINE A NONS BRONET BRETO COMRASKET SAY RE

VACT TATO DY PIMITRHE BALZAS'S HITURN SO CAJEO FOR MEDICAL

TINATE! PERSIA A SPANY ASPICI.

8, S8R14-IIAQ: SUNN OF MURIDITE FOLITICAL UTON HETWEEN

IRAQ ATO STRIA CONTHS TO ARGUND LE DUTI ESTATALES IT SEE LASE

ON TEA TOS LASS CETONNA CORTERICA dR ME TI

NATIONAL LADIES

OS THE SIT MEET, MAMODINE PARTREATE

TOMATO DECIALIDATION AND ARAB UNITI APPAENTLY DOUTTATO THE

PROCHIDINES, / /AD PARTY CO-TORMER BALAN BITAR, NON SURITER OF

SYRIA, EVXDENTLY HAS MEXE DROPPED FRBY LES IITRHATIODAZ CENTRAZ

CONITINS./! TER PANTY'S UNCCRONTBXNG MANIFESTO BAG FURTHE

ALIXHATID TRADITIONAL FONNA GROURS IN BOTH COCHTATES TITHOUT

GAININO ANY SIONIFICANT MEN ARERAINTE, CIVIL BINVANTS AN ARMY

OTTICHRS BAVE BRIN DIRORALIXID DY PURCRE, MINNHILE//PLANS U ENT

UP A JOINT MILITARY COMMAND APPRAR FO HE MOVIND POSTARD PAPIDLY.

SYRIAN TROOPS ARZ IN IRAQ FELPINO T70 CAMPAION AGAINET TER LURDS,

T&"

CSC B512

REFRODUCTION BY THEN HANGINE ISSUING ONCE IPPROHIBITEO

---

## Page 6

CANO 302

CARON CANE

=23:

48 F70E

#R. 00

DIRESTOR

CONF:

DAMEN act

ROUTINE, AN

INFO

CHE PIR

81401

A FILE AN ENRAY TO DEAN LA A CANTER OF SCONDIE UNITY

•. SAPS: MOVES LOSES LIES

AS LIN ANATIC AIT

EIS AROUND OF TITUD

1925

TH TO MI

DiEz.

ole, in vous sit not person

NEXT SET SO BIN FACTION TO A SA

LETT IS SOPINI TO CANTTALLI WON DIRRATIRRACTION MITH IAN IN STION

HAT I MIRI JAPAN'S CHALF

TASTE, IS RANT OPRESTTIOS TOICE, SUE METRO CONNY VITH THE

CONMTUNISTE VEO RATOR FRITTE'S JISVIIZIAS URAFORE BTAID, DA ANS

IS SEEZZIE TO BIES INS BLON LAPTRABO TARTO IN CATATESE VOTINO

BARITE TO MIN LO NOSE BRATE AND ACETIVZ BY STIZE 01-TEIED

ON TEN SOCHE ENRIAHIP RECHESARY TO BLOCK CONITITUTTONAL

AMRITITO, DESPITE TIS SOCIALISTS: GAIN NOUERATION, TANY

REMAIN OFPOSED TO JERDA'S CLOSE FIND COLIADORATION SITA TIE US.

(CONF)

REPRODUCTIÓN DY DUMER THAN THE SCHLIC CO CA SPROLLO

---

## Page 7

SSIFIED MESSAGE

81C

T.

= ROUTING'

8N00 53 09 43z

DESIRESEN

CITE DIR

8/421

-PIGT SEVR.

10. MOROCCO ALCITRYA THR CRASS FIRE BATUKEN MOROCCO AND

ALGERIA SECANS SUVICTIVE ON 4 HOT MAKE & MALIAN OBERVER MRACHED THE

BATTA MiTO dE FiGUAN, ALUCINAN FOUCES TIERE BAD CONTINUO TIBLE

ACTION FOR TUO DATE AFTER TET CRAS VIN HAU TO HAVE COME INTO

PPECT. THE FREE FUSELINE DEFENS MINUTEE BOOTINK VAS

DIRECTTLE THE ASCERIAN OPERATIONS, DOTTE DONARINTS ARE LINEINE

UP TIRIN DUPONT IURJARATURY SO A METTLE ON MIR CRIANTRATION O

ATRICAT WITTI, AND SIE FORSION NITISTINS MAY COUVEN IN ADDIE

ABARGIE NOSET TEN DATA, ATARATLY DO PROCAINE MÃS ASEE EITE

TOMATO SOLDINO A INSTINI DE BE FOLA-ANNER CALANDIA, MROCCO,

5IT1O7IA, AND NAZI) CARNIASION INTATZIERTO DY TUI CRAS-TIRE BERCE..

EIT TO 85T EP A BENTLITARIIIO DONI BESTIRE TEX TEO APIES,

HOKSVIS, AND TER BUILDUE ON DOTE BIES I8 SIT 5O COUS.

ON THE ALORRIAN BORENTIC FRONT, ANN MALA NIFOETXUSY NAS MRT VITA

LINOKS OF TUR HASTILL DISBIDRNNE IN AL APPARERT SITUAT TO

ACHINES AS ACCOORATIOn.

11. TURKY: LUCÂU FLECTIONE OF 17 MOV WILL I SHOVIER THE.

SIRTY THEY OF THE PARTIEN POPULAR STRBHITE SINCE I0GI, AND MAYS

•70 FARNE: 008:060

ten automata.

MACAROSUCLION 5Y CUNER THAIN THE ISSUING OFECE GRO IST

---

## Page 8

BICIET

WE DIST? SO DO NICE ANXIS THAT AULD AND OWN. WHILE INDU SHOUS

SIGHS OF RUBIONING DIDER PERSUIS, ANY COALTION NITRONT SITANE THE

TIP OR US MOULO DETERO INCRRABINILY 8E MILITARY SUPPOET.

I. GOTAN FARTIAL: ME OSES TO WITHEN THE DIEN

S120NIS40 INCH IN IRAT MAQUI DO LANCONNSI NEL STINA TILA

LI MISHA •D0NN 23 1430

BARE TIME, IN TINRATININO TO PULL OUT OR TINI PARENT CONTITION

1878115

-THIN NOT®

OIN?

DEARCEN

ROUTINE

: 001948

• Se

MONTO

Sad 093

1-794

•EA!

---

## Page 9

MESSAGE

88 CRET

5

1e:

4432

Irredit

CIE SiR 8142/

-PAG NINE-

A LANGELY CIVILIAN CARINST RAB AKBH APPOINTED, BUT THE MILITARY

¿TRARLY INTEND TO NUIN THE EGINS CE GOVERNANHT. GENERALE OCCUPY

MIX PONTA OF DRESTOS, SECERITY, AS INPORATION, AND A MILITANT

KIRCUTIVI COUTTER ETAND BY MATUR ORIAL DUONE VAN "BIG" HIN

IS FISTE TITH SURE RECUTIVE AND LATELATIVE AUTHORTTY WITH

THE CHARACTIR OR A BUPRACABINET, THE GENERALE TAVE ALMIADY HAD

В ТОС ПАТЕ УГ АНІТОВ РОКГРІСТАМ РОСКУІН ТОВ

109TS, AND AI VANCE ABDET IN LOIS ITLITARY HEE FIL 200..

MAJOR ENHETAS NON THAT DINA, THR HEN ITLITANY COVINHOR ON BAICOA

AND MINISTS ON MATIONAL SECURITY. I IE CONBIDERED OPTOETUMISTIC,

ISONLY SABITIOUS, AND IRRATIONAL: THO OF HIB PORNER BUBOROTRATIE

HAVE ERRA HANKO AS CONTAIRES OP THE MILITANY COUNS ARAB BUIL

HOUDING SAICON. THE VIST CONC HAVE STEPPED UP MALE ICALE

HARASHINO ATTACKE IN THE NITA SINCE THE COUP.

19. CHUNCH: TIE HARRON UPERT ELECTION VICTORY BE GRONGR

PAPADRIDE'S CENTER LOION NAY LEAD 50 AN EXTINHED PERIOD OF

POLITICAL INSTALLITI! IN GREECE. PAPANEROM, WITH 140 OUT 0%

---

## Page 10

BMiE

Birth

8RNS3 04 432

BANDEN

ROUTINE:

INFO

-PACE Fit

300 PRATA, 18 TETINO TO ORGAEZZE COVERINT POR SENTIATION TO

KING MIL ON A PAYENTRY. 1/8INE3 MILITARY LADERS NETONTELE

HAVE MID IT CURAS THAT TINY UTLE NUE FORTRATE MINISTE

HOW IT

TE ONE ID

OUT OIN SCARC LOPE

ED 10 FORM A YORKING MAJORITY PATHÄRIET FION SIN HATIONAR

RADICAL VITON (1XE MATH) OF POINER FENNER PARAMATICS, YORARANAHLIS

IB: LANY T0 MARANO HUNTET

POLIONES TO PARTICTRATE, ATS FAS

@ THE BY SHE LEER OF COURANTHS POBITIONS AND PATORS. ANTIE

VITAS! LATES ATE ISABLI FO TAKE A LANCER BOLT IT MANIO THI

WINKEN PELT IN SEEPICT TO PECTORS CASINST MENS N AS WILI

AS AGAINST ANY ARRANCEUENT TRAY WORLD LSAX ON CONNUNISTS. THE

PALACE'S DECISIVE LOLE IN EBBOYFING THE CRISIS HAY TRIPORARILY STEN

I LONG YE

AN DECLINE IN INTENCE.

END OY MASSALE.

braw

M2S BIC A BE

RERCOUSTION BY OTHER THAN TACOSME

---

