04-0248-10234

“pu

AN TO CLA
st Background Use Only
» Do Not Reprodues

3

deting Chiof, Security Division 19 June 1952

a

€

Security Violation - Unlocked Safe

1. On Saturday, U4 June 1952, at 7:31 Pe”. Safe #6791, containing
material classified through SECRET, Room 2413, "Guarters Fye," was found
unlocked by Guard %. L. Simms. The dial of the safe was in the opening
position and the top drawer was open about two inches. ‘The Safe Check
Sheet indicates that the instant safe was last closed and checked at
5:07 Pei. on 12 June 1962, Nicht Security Officer Gustaf L. Boklund
responded to the telephone call from the Cuard Office and secured the
safe at 8:20 +, after placing an explanatory note therein.

2. 16 June 1952

B 2 i of this Branch, accompanied
by Hr. Bernard F, Doran, Cee! er, TSS, investirated the violation.

During the course of the investization Mr. David L. Christ, Fhysical Science
Administrator, 2D, TSS, was interviewed. bres

3. Mr. Christ advised that he was custodian of the instant safe on
the date in question, and that no ona had been assigned responsibility
for conducting the Staff Duty Officer inspeotian of the srea. He stated
that he had departed for the day at about 4:00 P.4., and that apparently
he had forgotten te secure the safe. Ho etated further that Room 2413
was vacant when he departed. He stated also that in the future he would
adhere to CIA Security Regulations with respect to initialing the Safe
Check Sheet.

CONCLUSION:
4. The circumstances in this case indicate that ‘ir. Christ is solely
responsible for the security violation.

SECURITY HISTO2Y:
5. No previous security violations have been charged to Mr. Christ.

We C. KIRCHER
Chief, Physical cecurity Branch

