BO NOT REPRORU
- REFURN. FO CA

NOTE

THIS.DOSSIER MAY NOT BE COMPLETE. A LISTING OF ALL

CS MATERIAL PROCESSED FOR THIS FILE /AAY BE OBTAINED
FROM eS

THIS MICROFORM

UGE

OBUCTIONS
SE

EPR
TROY AFTER U

~ DES



ies pace ge q : “

Sruenienaeeeracets SECRET
“REQUEST. FOR APPROVAL OR. INVESTIGATIVE ACTION ilakie : :
aye hendcarry 1 copy of thie fore,
~ pease GourLEre” ExeN SECTION AND APPROPETATE. BLAME 13 September 1968

| Vivian A. Barry

CIVOPERATIONAL APPROVAL AND S'IPPORT DIVISION

j 2
CHIEF. INVESTIGATION AND SUPPORT DIVISION, OFFICE OF SECURITY WH/COG/PP
[TCRIEF, PERSONNEL SECURITY. DIVISION, OFFICE OF SECURITY 18 September 1968
*. PSUBJECT: ae PROJECT
(True awe) LATE DUNCAN AMVWIID ;
: CRYPTONWM, PSEUDONYM, AKA OR ALIASES Ei7on FILE WO.
517-682 (8

Rt 201 FILE WO.

|

1. TYPE ACTION REQUESTED

| [raovisronat orcnatiowat spenovat SROWISIOWAL PROPRIETARY APPROVAL |
[Torcearronat avenovat PROPRIETARY APPROVAL

pRovIstoNAL COVERT SECURITY APPROVAL COVERT wawt EneGe

COVERT SECURITY APPROVAL SPLOCHAL INQUIRY (SO field investigation)

2. SPECIFIC AREA OF USE

“% vis, [S- FULL DETAILS OF Use

Husband wishes to make wife (Kate) witting of his association with
the Agency.

@. IMVESTIGATION AND COVER YES: NO.

2 U.S! GOVERNMENT INTEREST MAY BE SHOWN DURING INVESTIGATION?

O. CIA-INTEREST MAY BE SHOWN DURING 1HVESTIGATIONT

C. 1S SUBJECT AWARE OF U.S. GOVERNMENT INTEREST IN HiMT

fs D. $$ SUBSET. al

EOF CHA INTEREST IM HIM?

€. INDICATE ANY LIMITATIONS OM COVERAGE IW THE INVESTIGATION OF SUBJECT PIE ¥ tunitnth,

~ F. SUGGEST COVER PRETEXT" TO BE USED 1N CONDUCTING PERSONAL INVESTIGATION OF SUBJECT.

G. DO VOU PLAN TO MAKE SUBJECT WITTING OF AGENCY. OR GOVERNMENT INTEREST?
TF WO-IMVESTIGATION OUTSIDE CIA. EXPLAIN FULLY

3. PRO AND GREEN LIST. STATUS

caer PRO 1, OR EQUIVALENT..1m (2) COPIES ATTACHED Ott WILL BE FORWARDED

ce PIS fema tt, On EQUIVALENT. IN (1) COPY ATTACHED GREEN LIST ATTACHED, NO:
i ee Gee E ©. RI TRACES: q wel!
: NO: RECORD E 2 [etce Forwano [_Toh-oenocarone. [oeRoGatory ATTACKED:
a < f ; 7. DIVISION TRACES : E ea
oe NO. RECORD TE Jeite ronwano [Now-orrocatory [ornocaroay arracimie: p=

fee FE ee 8. FIELD TRACES =

4 5 WO RECORD WILL FORWARD i ot
NO DEROGATORY INFO. DEROGATORY ATTACHED. “ ae

LIST. SOURCES CHECKED : SIGNIFICANT (INFORMATION. ATTACHED
+f [wot ineteate (Explanation)
“J SiGNaTURE OF. CASE OFFICER

TaTEWsioN [SIGNATURE OF BRANCH CHIEF”

s&h SECRET,“ *



14-00000

cue SECRET sai : i

NOTE: SF2 INSTRUCTIONS ON REVERSE SIDE TYPE OR PRINT

201 PERSONALITY FILE ACTION REQUEST

:
f° |0:' _ RID/201 Section Room GA~20 Tube Address DW-6 {
| {
i

| (iwiddto) : : |

7 WANE VARIANTS AND TELECODES, (see Instructions,
(Lest) (Firat) (Hiddle)

t
ae

Na. sex rion cave oF clave ar Contay GF braTe To CTV oF wT {-
po fe eT P| : . t
[ies curezenswae nae SORRGPAT TOR (ater Fax) Waar eae

18. DOCUMENT SyHBOL @ HUMaCR

oe RLY ter

Ws7: comments (text for Index cords)



14-09000

Bisssaninsastansarnasesssieeaad
C=0=N-F<T=D-E-N-T-I-A-L
Lb Kaul Filled In

ie 197,
i ate)
; y

Review of 201 File on U.S. Citizen

/

In accordance with the DDO's notice of 9 December 1974,
I have reviewed the 201 file on IN CAM (surname)
(201 number indicated below), and have determined that it can

most

This

This

accurately be categorized as indicated below:

should be closed.
witting collaborator. OI Code Al.

potential witting collaborator; date, opened
OI Code A2. :

former witting collaborator (relationship terminated).
OI Code A3.

potential witting collaborator never contacted (security
reasons, derogatory information). OI Code A4.

counterintelligence case (i.e., involving a foreign
intelligence or security service). OI Code A5.

all others. O1 Code A6. .
ae wee
Signed { Z£ Gb:
Seth Gonp ATU]
assignment of category has been entered Ae STAR.
Signed __ He 29 JAN 175197
(initials) (date)

document. is a permanént part of this file’

—
OY AFTER USE

E

Lf

Ch

!

a

Mie

201-_£W/ F2/ «

Bee bain -E2 IMPDET
: CL BY

When Filled In
C-O-N=RETSDSESNT=1-AL

4979.


———- |
TRAVEL ORDER WORK SHEET ° — Ss
Hache oh Bielsamesno(pf EE sais ounaTion

“Tarrice enone LIP.

you Sains AUTHORIZED TO TRAVEL AND INCUR NECESSARY EXPENSES IM ACCORDANCE ITH & fcurarians
THIS TRAVEL OR CHANGE OF OFFICIAL STATION, IF SO DESIGNATED, 1S MADE FOR CFFICIAL PURPOSES NU |
_NOT FOR YOUR, BERCOUAL CONVENIENCE.

Frater sobeaaccomooarion guy rarone yg BVA
: Move: Po” .- Ak Baga GLE, PEE Ain |
Danfoss £2 SDAY TIY SOS, fore CoA RRIEFINES

OS QonTRAc T 12e om eC. - |

FOES Assrewmen7 — AND dg ee

TRAVEL ORDER KO;

i:

PER
Domestic

AUTOMOBILE rr
CENTS PCA MILE, KOT TO EXCEED COST BY COMMON CARRIER

i
feenTs Pen WILE, AB MORE ADVANTAGEOUS TO THE GOVERNMENT GECAUSE OF: wie =

| Shupmeat ofcAr Sapeias.

ALLOWANCES AND SPECIAL PROVISIONS SITH oor

Pou So ban fh eet Ak bus, KAS ve |
Us

3
..
Hl

DEPENDENT THAVEW auTHoRIZzEO |] | PROCURE TRANSPORTATION OF "Taovance of Funos aurnonizeo])
: A laccompany taaveres le TRANSPORTATION REQUEST accounting HUE OnYE |

Jewsvonomee dP Pwo | OF Ef
cs [7 Taovance eevuan 2 piasonirtoa' be ureecs! z T CERTIFY FUNES ARE AVAILASEE |
uf NAME, ore Bee faccarionsnie| aurwontzation Esrauateo cost or reaver
peas [tle VE ei Ze BTS ent ianace

| am

Domestic: AUTHORIZED SIGNATURE
“5peciaL
WHETHER A 20 OR wore

frovcow oO wonrns |_|

cyeMeNt roa avrHomizeD [OeLiGariow REFERENCE co.

UCTIONS
SE

size OF each ieee, aud TOTAL
weraur..

REQUESTING OFFICIAL

Fon Use. ~ : rar — —T
: eee ne eotrows ae ' : : : 5
© 5 eoirtons: a : Beste cok



14-09000:.

____SeCneT

WS THVT! rep 7 ry ‘HR 20+ efaae and, 705 22°F: 1 for guidance. TELEPHONE. Ke or
tes aro tia p a a
plicable. Arana arlgiast ka feo Eopres for Brena 64.2.0 | Se ae é EEF

a
a
ae
gq
3
z

a. et m5 og | ae SHOT BO

Cy v TXT I

jDIVIDUAL HAS BEEN ENGAGED OY CHA OR ITS ALLIED ACTIVITIES IM SOME CAPACITY
TOR TO THIS CONTRACT. ves nq (ff yes, describe and include date:
wa telersey, cmmeet- CJ ve DL ; 4

LOE

Fine Ft a 7a Leia ne = z
Wraa™ oe Type and date, SF |e. cowreact 18 To ee wRITTEN IN STERILE FOR!
ieee b 52 ca een TE ren a

ie TILL WORK UNGER “CONTROLLED CONDITIONS® 1.€.; REGULAR OFFICE POSED CATEGORY (Contract agent, | |
OURS AWAY FROW SUBJECT*S HOWE AND PEAFORUED UNDER THE SUPEQVISION OF A. tract esployes, etc.) ', oars
STAFF CUPLOVEE OR: STAFF AGENT : : “fe

SECTION 11.
fre. crvezgusmse.
7 fa

V2. 1 MOT U.S, CITIZEM, INDIVIDUAL 1S A PERMA.
MERY RESIDENT ALIEN (—] vee |

TJ vivonceo

19. INDIVIDUAL 1S RELATED TO A STAFF EWPLOYEE. STAFF AGENT
AN (NDIVIOUAL CURRENTLY WORKING FOR THE AGENCY IN SOME

iG. WUMRER OF DEPENDENTS (Not Including {ndividual )
RELATIONSHIP AND AGES

it CAPACITY veo
wife ~26 peer
f SECTION SEE ‘U.S. MILITARY STATUS
20 RESERVE 21. VETERAN 4 22. (fF RETIRED AG AN OFFICER, CHECK ONE:

reo rt— (Cl rerineo recutan Clretinen neseavist

#3. GRAKCH bad stavice 28. ORAFY ELSGIBLE 26. DRAFT DEFERMENT TO BE CDTAINI
Cie. Cy ey CIA Clves CH

COMPENSATION E a i OQ
29. COVER (Bi aed Feoerat taxes t—
GOV'T. TAX DOCUMENTATION - BY AGENCY.

UA.

oS frax DOCUMENTATION BY ESTABLISHES COV’
! ALLOWANCES «NORMALLY GRANTEO ONLY TO U.S =i ‘AND my, ALIENS?
Si; quanTens 32. Post 33, OTHER,

20. POST DIFFERENTIAL

Mon € - Movs IZ
: ga. cover (Breakdewn, if 3"
} K SECTION VI TRAVEL,

| 35. TwPEs
[uals CE courerec opeaarecaas

oe cca

WITH OfPENDENTS.
"Tettee Cor ee



T4-000GO~ vrare wmrevree um. geare. means

a Waa Ter yee 43, EXTERTAINNEN! : 44. OTHER
i B dl | :
[op. PAYMENT AWD. ACLOUNTADILITY WILL BE tw CONFORWANCE WITH

2 49NS5 204 eee eacwrous eoirre

page yr vies Y -9.24 1
f SECTION U4 7 PERSONAL DATA acy 7 i

prea | Tao tF MOT U8. CITIZEN, INDIVIDUAL 19 A PERWA. [td, AGE'-~ | ta. Date OF aiatw (Hone day, year) |
JDENT ALIEN
; went net So Zz CH IS. LEV E

te. cunneny nysioence (Cley “ad otate opapant ty).

whirls LEAL Guar Gk. FH |

10. INDIVIDUAL 18 RELATED TO A STAFF EMPLOYEE. STAFF AGENT 01
AN INDIVIDUAL CURRENTLY WORKING FOR THE AGENCY 1m SOME |

RUMDER OF DEPENDENTS (Not including individual )
RELATIONSHIP AND AGE® .

4 capacity ves wo !
tl fae ~ 26 RELATIONSH a |
tl

H

i q
i ;
H }
l

!

| SECTION ttt U.S. MILITARY STATUS

20, RESERVE 22 1F RETIRED AG AN OFFICER, CHECK ONE:
PO (J retineo recuian Do rerinco restavist
23: BRARCH OF SERVICE 24. BANK OR GRADE 23. “— ELIGIOLE 26. ORAFT OEFERMENT TO BE OBTAINED
co ey cia Ores . Ono

SECTION IV COMPERSAT ION

27. caste Satany 20. POST DIFFERENTIAL | 20. COVER (Brockdown, df any) 20:4 FEDERAL TAXES j
4 vy) A GUSIGOVE, TAR DOCUMENTATION=BY AGENCY |
| Ww. 8. . fi. o/ lrax oocuuewrarion by Estapuisuro coven!
; [3K [acency rax.commirree case i

H SECTION V ALLOWANCES «NORMALLY GRANTED ONLY TO U.6. CITIZENS AND RESIDENT ALIENS?
W st. quarteas ‘BR. POST B3~ OTHER 7 z & Pv
h. Jone Rone Ws cam
Ysa. coven (Breckdoun, if any) =
© SES)
i

SECTION VI TRAVEL

as. Tees : 7 Cam
TA vee CO reaniste evanatvonas rf

[[sz se vo ae aiterdo [orm wwe vo ob aronto 20. fensona, venice vo oe OPED
te Tee 7 ie T=

Gite OCPERDENTS GTATE RELATGONSHIP, CITIZENSHIP, AGE AND DATE OF BIRTH

| 7 ee Bee a AE — Ms Cugact 14%
cy Me Skea teats

Tromat

36. WITH OFPENDENTS
cee ves a oo

Socae oe cdi

LL BE 1% CONFORMANCE BITH 2
4a ecoutartons ( cours rourctes. ane

SECTION Vit OPERATIONAL EXPENSES

Aue peoceoudcs

[FZ Jers seoucers

2 Coens woutetas
2 SECRET “et oar 7 4, a ee Sas



14-0000@

SECRET

mae
xan Virsa |

CONTRACT UNFORMATION AND CHECK LIST = /

(CONTINUED) netcenene cuneea or
+ SBE INSTRUCTIONS ON FIRST SHEET. 6F26 (7 Ly |

HSECTION ViUt OTHER BENEFITS f
Has. eewerits (See HR 20-46. Hit 20-41, WR 20-7, Hp 20-33, and fii 20-620-1, HB 20-1000-1 and/or aucceosor regulatione for

denefitg applicedie to verious ¢. ro aaa of contract pereonnel.)
; ~ Aepeckatxe (ep is Lael wl
fe o

¥

!
!
1
|
|
t
i
!

bs

be f
‘OueR WE APD floes hy Eo

Co courceve Colette

i of : OFFSET. OF INCOME
- [s0- OFFSET OF INCOME AnD OTMER EMOLUSENTS DEAIvCO FROM COVER ACTIVETIES CIF

han total, juotify ia separate acne

ettached hereto.) fSZ] vor jam Rs (CQ sone

$3. RENEWABLE

Veo. Pawuany aD B
CI22.5 AL,

Section a ~ DUTIES
sz. GENERAL DESCRIPTION OF DUTIES TO BE PERFORMED

VIiiiie 19 ST C3
ag 1964-CB

ede Competency

ae 4 See ance
rene) bd LAantan

Pc?



-00@
14-009Q8 srarus pnoroaes 00. yee noorareraey cur tueas poommewerae seynees
scene) cataeuianco cheek) jeuocrnetee eoucationa { erriciat omen {
__ Wepre Cover Pavments ane conreuPuatt., Wey ONL UE EFFECTED OW WEMmUUNSAFLE BAS . 7
later alee Coe [oJ coutecre Corer
i RSECTION X OFFSET OF INCOME :

COME AND OTHER EMOLUMENTS DERIVED FROM COVER ACTIVITIES (1 fossa than total, justify in seperste seao
rors [Lo] eaereae :. [) none

$0. OFFSET OF
“attached

$3. RENECASLE

Hay. GENERAL DESCRIPTION OF OUTHES TO GE PERFORUED

t . oy
SECTION XIV QUALIFICATIONS : a {__f}_%

p my, peg uence 79 S49 C3. Ea monte. Kote Mvneg wah of OVE. eae |
2 we | (964-68 Mgrs
yeeeey fi #7 66- 6" Lbs ee fearing C08 * As “TV
ss. eoucation H canoe scuooe pew ecwoot caaouave | |raave scmoor caaouare

Check Highest CommCnctat scucot caaouate
Lovel Attained,

Beaess acnooe sesuttt

4 coucece (Wo degree)

+ ENDIVIDUAL’S
COUNTRY OF ORIGIN

H  fcheek Sppropricte
| (pegroe, Caapetency

H section xv EMPLOYMENT PRIOR TO CIA

a5 Give WHCLUSIVE OfTES. POSTTIGH TITLE OF TPE WORT, SALARY AND REASON FOR iy j
[/7s 7-63 Ze Le apa One ea i

964-66. kL
Yea-br kiime-1l nis Drapirco = og

SECTION XVI ADDITIONAL INFORMATION.
ed. ADDITIONAL GR UNUSUAL REQUIREMENTS, JUSTIFICATIONS OR EXPLANATIONS (Use other cide if necoscacy)

APPROVAL

TYPED MAME @ SIGHA
ine OFFICIAL.

Daud


14-00000

s
‘ BUSES IN £CCG
Poy AUTSHSSILE ALLOTANCE
l Begorser : j
pbesta Recctachataiad Feccurs Pee MLE, not 75 CATEES CEST Ev CoKutN CARRIER i
Hl 75 PER MILE, AS MERE ADVANTAGEIUS To ThE GOVERNMENT EECAUSE GF?
4 4

SEPENSENT TAA

[se
‘Sisposirion cf ErrceTs UCERTIFY,
tirmomgazien

spePveRCannR SRRCET ES TITC Td nee
Teun TREE
PMENT PEA ALTRORIEES “4
Tacit baccase autmonnes | i
iroscion: Pounds ana NOSE H
accoupanica | uxaccompanics | :
i FAN NO, i
i { Jee ner eraecieeear
! LBOMESTIC: incicete 9 vege. | OATE | AUTHORIZED SiGMATURE {
by “SPECIAL PROVISIONS" — AZOVE, Hi .
4 pwactnta azcowsani3. on nots |
i ite si OF CACM PiECE,. AND TOTAL i725
ieee :
fe COSREINATION REQUESTING OF FICIAL ; E
: : + at —}
‘SiguaTuae Sof Titke © component. | ate. PCD MAME AND TITLE (Gavan ta :
i =>
i S a4

NP ae fees ogee sal! oe : :
. ;
| cake en ee I ES OT
| tt AUTMORIZING GFFICIAL oo
ieee Tere waue ano FTE : “Teouronta? ye
} “ eee A TERE oo : Wo
| one at],

pee
parr 5

FORM. 5400 USEaL
ee aes pacvioUs
: LSE ceprprones »



Gein oe

ree thag Pwilh tally saat for this adeanco by su! nol vaveRarsarctisfund cf any unc peated hafince ta the place |
un ting ted oud by the due date checked bale. at of iny Fasture to ve atcount aad ect dang uccipeaved |
co, f authorize deduction fram my aatary ¢0 effect 42H! . cana et

Rove uigaatare nppoart below, to esceire
Lie ae of offeiad funds aa my
GtiWel fads anil my-rereanas

ADOUR
STON THE LAST

DAY OF EACH OU |

i sd fe receipt elf in the.ame
to bo used for the pur, stated acid ae vaunted for as thovn -



eee

Te TATIORAL

i
if
fateoeies Bee
fff : i
it PER DIEM ALLCKAN 1 RULOEANCE
: as | [cents ron mice, not 70 €asc€2 CoST ay CoMMEN CARRIER
: e j CeuTE PEA Mid, £5 MORE ADVANTAGEOUS To THE COVERNMENT ECEAVSE OFF

i
i

! .

VT CERTIFY FUNDS 4.
Pesriaates caar or taavee

j

4

4

enaee wero

Sar eaten REFERED

SADE AUTHORIZED

ANE MOTE

UNAECEM PANIES

GATE UADES

ToanoNeTON TeouesTine oFrieime

Tanatere 7 vrsea egurguen’ | cate F Fee wank Ake Hite en
Coe dot tas
eave

|

Se
PRES ONS
EDITIONS,

wad at


teach hee 2 og bold ele

10 October 1968

Herewith received from Mr, Ronald Saine -- $242, 04
Two-hundred-forty-two and 04/100 to. reimburse the undersigned’:

for travel and per diem,

J ohn Thomas Duncan

TOM DUNCAN
PRODUCER-oIRECTOR

Kame TELEVISION, ALeugueaque, wew mexico
PHONE S05) 277-2121. | 180) ROMA AVENUE NE



14-00000

] 9 October 1963

MENORANDUM TOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Briefing of Victor D. BALSAMELLO (P) Regard=
ing Project AMWIDE

1. On 8 October. occompanied by George Powell, Central
Cover Staff, Covert Tax Unit, we met with Victor D. BALSAL-
ELLO (P) at the Holiday Inn in Rosslyn for the purpose of
briefing him regarding his tax and cover status. Upon arri-
val we discovered he was just’ being shown his contract by the
case officer and.a. representative of WH Personnel... After ao
cursory review of his contract, BALSANELLO (P) siated that he
refused to commit. bimselg for: period of more than one year
inosmuch as this was a .losing proposition for him financially.
After a brief discussion, it was agreed thot the contract
could be amended to cover a period of thirteen months under
which he still maaiteins the sane benefits which were set
forth dn the original agreement. He then voiced objections to
the use of his assigned pseudonym and gave the general imprese
sion or relunctance to. becone associated under any terns of
agreement.

2. He odvised that he had been invited to Florida in
August and hod a resulting medical problem consisting of
fungus which developed on this trip. He stated that at noon
on 9 October, he was to receive the results of tests run by
two independent doctors whem he had consulted and therefore
was in no position to morally commit himself to this contract
under any terms. Fortunately Powell and I were introduced in
aling and at this point we departed fron the meeting.

3. We later learned that the subject had been given the

true name of the AM#iii proprietary curing the chia dee 2 5
visit in Florida. eed Su:
St Ss

Dee

Richard J. Biladeau Su

Devised Facility Branch at:

: a ““: Central Cover Staff es
Distribution: : ‘ . tae
Orig - routed to C/DF; me
C/CCS/PRG; CS-3117: Hee

A= Chrono
1 - George Powell


cf
gasacnibount ROUTING ANO/ OR INITIALS « 3ECR
Totat comes: ci Pere
SECRET 2 Se
ex: "6820/1255 ‘ ies pevanaaaioa
eat: 11 OCTOBER.1968. assastnsssseeonagatr eS
CASIO SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION 0D we a eesmoy [7] asvuew To. saancn [Pus cid
are... em * o wowmom  [[] Fug cs pus wo,
ee [_-] wo corr ee ) 2
——- Kilt, Cosi, © — —iittlesease —
SECRET cmepmcron 21 20
ee a
vo S3MCOBRA 13 GGzdereg VL 71

:-AMWIDE ; pout fa on

i FOLLOWING JOHN THOMAS DUNCAN'S ARRIVAL HQS, AND

: AFTER PRELIMINARY CONTRACT SESSION. WITH HQS.OFFICERS, HE
= DECLINED OFFER FOR AMWIDE EMPLOY.

2, DUNCAN'S DECISION OSTENSIBLY BASED ON HIS BELIEF HE
UNABLE LIVE cd)FoRTABLY IN TROPICAL CLIME DUE TO IRRITATING
SKIN FUNGUS HE CONTRACTED DURING HIS VISIT JMCOBRA. HQS
OFFICERS CONCLUDED, HOWEVER,

3] PROBABLY
RESULT HIS VISITS SEVERAL UNIVERSITIES DURING OVERLAND DRIVE TO
WASHINGTON, AND THAT HE NOW PLANNING RETURN TO ACADEMIC
STUDIES, DUNCAN ALSO HAD SOME RESERVATIONS CONCERNING PERSONA

_ RESTRICTIONS RESULTING FROM WOFIRM EMPLOY, AND PREFERRED
DISQUALIFY SELF NOW RATHER THAN PROCEED JMCOBR4g ARBA

: 3. RELATIONS WITH DUNCAN APPEAR AMICABLE AND HE eae
Has OFFICER HIS avlievess 1 THAT ALL PREVIOUS CONVERSATIONS ‘AND
of" "1  continued/

8
4
3,
a

Af

TOORDINATING OFFICERS

i 7 LA iS
RELEASING OFFICER a a : "etd Soe entametig | 0 AUT CITING, SS
ee ‘Ss ECRET Secentaeten eectres

REPRODUCTION By. OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE 55. PROHIBITED. “corr ac.



MELSAGE FORM
ToraL Comes:

i SECRET {
oo os

LM ee

woe

(CO) wo tose ([] pug mee ene wo.

re iva

(etite}

Tote and sume tied) ratereace eumbor; ae
cite amector $IR2C]
=

Cr 7
CONTACT WITH WOFIRM REMAIN CONFIDENTIAL, THOUGH NAME
AND CEDRIC D, BARTI-

AND LOCATION AMWIDE PRODUCTION UNIT,

LUCCI'S TRUE NAME KNOWN TO DUNCAN, HQS DOES NOT ANTICIPATE

ANY DIFFICULTY. NEVERTHELESS, HQS AND JMCOBRA MUST BE

ALERT ANY POTENTIAL SECURITY PROBLEMS.

4, FILE 19-126-61/2.
END OF MESSAGE

WH/Contracts.
cyprq/ecs_ nd “I

 elwoysze. G2 Seen

E

ICHE REPROD:
% AST

Cc/WHD

Ee (AE
LIAM V. BROE * : DA’ A. LL
ae C/WH/E0G

One me

cue oo SU OR SECRET. See

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE 1S PROHIBITED.

UCTIONS
RUSE



14-00000 Hae oy

\

: 18 October 1968

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD :

SUBJECT: Meeting with John Thomas Duncan: Project AMWIDE Candidate
(1145 - 1515 hours, 8 October 1968; Reeslyn, Virginia)

6 ;
1. Ina i met briefly with "Tom" Duncan in the lobby

of the Holiday Inn, Rosslyn, Virginia, after which Duncan and I had lunch
at the Orleans House. The purpose of the meeting was toe discuss any prob-

i lem areas or questions which Duncan may have bad incident to his coming

: "on board," Fu ¥ 9 remain with Duncan until such time as he would

i be intreduced at afternoon, (NOTE: The latter session was

i arranged for the purpagse wins Duncan eign the contract which had been
prep2red for him, end to explain his cover arrengement and other pertinent
administrative details.)

| 2. During the earller diseussion, Duncan and I chatted for
nearly thirty minutes; though Duncan méntoned (4) the skin fungus which ho

: had contracted during en earMor visit to Florida; and (2) his dssire be confer

i by teleshons with kis doctors cen:

H Duncan cid net give

7 which he had been a ect

have en opportunity to cot cone prior | to Duncan's departure.

3. Subsequently, Duncan and I lunched together, during which time the Z ‘

i conversation turned to Duncan‘s récent travels and his several visits to univer-~ Su,
; ~"aity campuses while enroute to Washington. He mentioned that he had found Se
the doctoral program at the University of Minnesota particularly attractive. _ ac

He did not say that he intended to enroll at that institution, but he several times ee

alluded to “picking up the doctorate" at some future date. With reference to
the aforementioned AMWLDE position, Duncan stated.that he could not do nay-
thing -- (While in the Agency's empiuy) -- which might run counter to his

&
’
of

SANICROFICHE pry



14-0000

-2-
n

“principles"'or set of values. 1 assured him that it was extremely unlikely

that he would expertence any difficulty in that regard, and I recalled at that
time how casual he ecemed throughout our brief discussicn of his forthcoming
affiliation with the Agency. In retrospect, it ceems quite clear that Duncan
was net really interested in being reassured; his decicion to refuco the Agency's
offer of employment hed Mkely been reached days before.

4, During the course of the afternoon mecting with) end later
with George Powell and Richard Biladeau, it was my imprésetion that neither
the terma of the contract nor the asci:mment of a pseudonym was of para-
mount concern, Rather, Duncan's expressed misgivings were only euporéiclal
excuses for backing out of a relationship which he had come to view as untennble,
Doubtless, his skin condition was a factor,, however, had Duncan becn sufficicatly
enthusiastic about joining the AMWIDE project, it is my feeling that he would
have done co despite his malady, (NOTE: The doctors reportedly told Duncan
that many people Living in Flozida had the same preblem, and that Duncan "could
live with it. ")

5. In sum, it is my opinion that Duncan was unwilling to accept the job
regardless of the terms which hs might be able to exact, e.g., thiztcoa months
268 opposed to two-ycars, etc, It is conceivable that had it net for Duncen’s

desire to vicit relatives fn the Washington, D.C., wy Pe havo pree
y have ick

sented himeslf at all, Why Duncan agreed to meet with eM and

Bilade: ains something of a mystery tome, He Fits

to - for whom he expressed high regard, or he may have done co
ty.

6. Security Implications: Known to Duncan are the true name and address
of AMWIDE's production faciity, and the true name of Cedric D, BARTILUCCI.
Though it is not belicved thet Duncan will cause this information to become
known, Station JMCOBRA has been alerted to the possibility. ,

wy
zz
=)
on
=
S

F. J. Gea

oo
WH/COG/PP &



14-00000,

DISPATCH | svarvsscens

; 7
_.. Chief of Station, ¥ H/Miami (Oe AL
tik .

fo
Chicf, ¥ cotern Hemiophere Divi

aaa
ac BYBAT/ Traces on Porsonalitios involved inthe Robert K, BROWN Case.
cies TIO Cine
’
{ Sane }
\ : : frag
dese

References: A. UFAA-3027, 13 May 1971
EB. UFAA-3040, 14 May 1971

Action required: FYI

| 1, Following are Headquarters traces on perconalitica involved
in the Robert K. BROV N Case requested in Reference A, keyed to the
order in which they are listed in the reference. : gg
: dev ive —

i A paulte 1C HAR DSON - Zhi person may bo |

idontifiable with Paul RLC HAR DSON (2050786),

: olioo for Paul Kubiman Hi 1M, DPONs 18 April 1930,

Greonaville, Ponnaylvania, Ho was danerthod in 1968 no.

"white, 6 f,, 2-3 Inches; 175 poucds; block hair, preying

i ond balding on top; blue oyoo, wear places for roediog;

H loan build; appeared in good phyoical condition and dressed

well, Was an aviation conoultant and pilot. He was dropped

from LNLEVY on 1 May 1967 with prajudice. In March 1967

HE IM aedvortiood in a U.S, aviation trade newepapor for a

Hy co-pilot or co-pilot mechanic to fly primarily fn Europe.

{ a Hi £ 1M tnferred to 0 candidate (informant) that he wae

connected with JKLANCE overoeao and that ho was an

officer in the LNLEVY reserve, Upon arrival in Zurich,
igeaa Switrortand in April 1967, H E I M-told the candidato that he

ee would not be employed by Transair oo previoualy indicated, =

/Continued/

Distribution
3 - COS, VH/Miami

ous,

8 REPRODU

Pm
A

TURE gal

APEA

eti9


1
i
|
{
|

* CONTINUATION OF rai
DISPATCH *

ME

PAT/SECRET

but a6 a pilot for Count Z A NO N (AKA ZENON and ZANNON),

and a Georgio MONDADORI. Z ANON was reported

to be a bankes, and MON 1) ADC Ria publisher of magazines

and books. £” The Il June 1971 issue of the Vachington Post no
carriod the obituary for Arnoldo MONDADORL, Italy's

number one publisher who retired two years previously leaving

the publishing house in the hands of hie son Giorgio. Yearly

sales were aid to average $120 million dollare7. On the above
mentioned trip to Zurich, H E I M was involved in smuggling

a large trunk: (contents unknown) through custome in Torino,
Italy by bribing the officials, H E I M purchased a King Air
Beechcraft in May 1966 valued at approximately $500, 000,
which was registered to him for tax purposes but owned by

two wealthy Italiane. H EI M's U.S, busineas address in
1968 wae Paul K. HE 1M, Aviation Consultant, Hays Street,
Gettyoburg, Pa, 17325. The foregoing was based on LNERGO
reports.

B. Monmouth Medical Center - NPIL. ,

C. Seale R. DOSS - NPI.

BI peaisaias Proos (formorly Panther Publications).
By memo datod November 1967, VOMACE xrequanted LNERGO
to procure a list of toll callo made from the office of Panther
Publications in Bouldor, Colorado, and a similar lot of toll
calla made from tho home of Robert K, Brown, This requect
was made aa a result of Brown's harrassment of JKLANCE
with the avowed intont of publishing a book exposing JKLANCE
oporations. UNERGO advicod that thore waa not sufficient
indication to juatify an investigation falling within LNERGO
juriadiction, thus tho request was never serviced. «

E. Leon GAHIAL AINE - NPIL
F, JohnH, DEMPSEY - NPUL
G, Mary C. DEMPSEY - NPI,

°
H. William JD E MPS EY, It appearo likely that -
this eubjoct may bo identifiable with ons Villiam John D EM PSEY,
ake Bil, DPOB: 19 Fobruary | 19st; Canede-. In May tye) ho was
doscribod an blond hair; oinglc; majntanance wi r, Canadian
3 chon ohortor than right arm, He went to

the Miami prog in about 1961, Claimed to be » votoran of the
Canadian Army. Ha bocame involved with Amorican morcenaries
and adventurers who formed a group under Gerald Patrick
HE MMING, veteran of the U.S, Marine Corps, previously
reported in Brown traffic, Thie group volunteered their services
to various Cuban exiles who were then planning military expeditions
to overthrow tha Government of Cuba. Moat of the persona in the
group had criminal records and under police pressure loft tho
Miami aroa, DE MFP SE Y hao been involved in Cuban and
Haitian mattere eince that time, hao beega technical advisor
to many Cuban oxilo groups concerning planes to infiltrate
and launch miseions against Cuba, a8 involved with Rolando
MASFERRER Rojao, ot al, inhp de invasion of
Haiti in 1966. The participants were akasted by LNYAPA

* officials, but DE M PS E Y evaded apprehension, In March 1969



"“WStidios in Operational Nogation of Ingurgoncy and Counteroubvercion), organized

RET TON DsPaTCH SymbOC Ano NUMBER

RYBAT/SECRET uray yea :

CONTINUATION OF
“DISPATCH ieract

pe wae arrested and incarcerated in Monroe County Jail, Key West, Florida,
along with eleven other persons, in connection with an accident at a aecret
military cemp discovered in the Florida Everglades, allegedly being used by f
Haitian exiles preparing to invade Haiti, D:E MPS E Y was the commander “%
in charge of operations and training. DE MPS E Y and the other camp
commander, Edmund K O J. BY, were in charge of disbursements, In June 1969
DEMPSEY participated in a bombing mission at Port-Au-Prince, Haiti,

woo deported from the Bahamas to Miami and arrested there by LNYAPA agents.
He later was returned to Canada but «as not prosecuted. In September 1969
DEM PSE Y advised an LNERGO informant that he still resided in Canada

and was associated with an American (not further identified) who was then
writing a book about the aosassination of President Kennedy.

Do MELLO given by BR O WN as his mother and emergency addressee

whon BRO V_N wao issued a rogular passport in September 1966 for travel to __
Denmark, England and France on business, See paragraph 4, JMWAVE 9087
dated 1 September 1967 (201-189473).
J. Chicago Sun Times = NPII.
K, Mrs. Drew PEARSON - NPIL
L, Robert Bruce@MIL LER -
Following gre listings from the October 1970 Denver Telephone
Directory:
__ Robert Bruce MIL LER ~ 1032 rere Ave, . Boulder 449-0830,
“Rall - Ft ulder 449-2930,
Following ia 9 listing from oo Rete) Bee & Hubbel Law Directory:
Robort B, MILLER, lawyer, Boulder, Colorado. DOB: 1940;
firat admitted to the bar in 1966. Received B.A. and J.D. degrees
from the Univoraity of Colorado at Boulder.
M, Denver Pagt Nowapaper Switchboard - NPIL, *

N. %eMilitary Armament Company - a9 of December 1970 had about 12) jm
employees including four machiniots who worked under the direction of Gordon
INGRAM, it is a oubdidiary of Environmontal Industrios, Inc. a Waahington,
D.C, corporation reportedly bankrolled by come of the Eact'n mont prominant.
invostmant housgs. Also tiod in with Environmental Industries is SLONICS

in 1967, also located in Powder Springs, Ga,, which makes spociclized light
weapona for LNGLUE and other counterinourgency forces around the world.
Director of international operations of Environmental Industries, Inc, Prasident
of Military Armamente Co, and Vico-Presidont of SIONICS io one Mitchell
Livingeton VER BELL Il (201-259910) well-known to JKLANCE and characterized
0 unccrupulous, a "wheeler-deuler" and a promoter of grandiose achemen,

VER RELL initiated contact with Loth overt and covert JKLANCE officers in

the later 1950's and mid-1960'o to pace information on revolutionary matters in
the.Caribbean erea which wan of little value. On occagion he hao intimated
JKLANCE support or affiliation but has never been used by JKLANCE. Hae
appeared fn Brown traffic re @ anti- Castro activities from Miami,

O. Anderson & Cribtofani Marine ¥ aye + NPI, NPIL on Valter A.
ANDERSONorACRISTOFANL

‘Continued

i ae i
1. (uro.) M, *De MEL LO - Thio no doubt to the Mrs, Manuel *§¢x-/



TA0000RontinvATION OF
aa Beet DISPATCH

UFAW <1

P. Simon & Schuster, Inc, An LNERGO report dated
January 1953 roflects that the Simon & Schuster firm in New York
\City had-a contract with an Amos L ANDMAN, U.S. citizen,
free lance writer, and one time Communist Party member, to
gather material in Red China to write a book entitled "Behind
The Bamboo Curtain, "

Q. Publishers Development Corporation - NPI.
R. Mra. Bernice F OS TER - NPU.

' N ,
Ss. Jorn t“ DUNCAN -

A Tom D\-NC A Nie cited in previous SLAF TER
traffic (DBA-28117, 19 November 1962) (201-309125) as one of a
group of men headed by Gorald Patrick HE M MIN G training
on tho key. He wae tho owner of a nowopaper in Moore Haven,
*. Florida and appeared to be handling publicity and public relations
“for the group.

One John Thomas DU _N CAN (201-841921) wao contacted
and assoosed in Juiy 1968 for uoe as o reporter/announcer for
the AMVIDE production facility, DUN CAN accepted the
AMWIDE job after a visit to Miami in August 1968 and discussion
with JKLANCE officera; however, in a follow-up contact with a
Headquartera officer in Cctober 1968, declined the position,

ee

One Richard DU NC AN (UFAT~-345, 6 January 1968)
asacclated with Time Magazino, Columbus, Gporgia, sosisted
BR OV N in rogard to research work in the Miami area ro
Melmar and Zenith Corporations, Also see UFGA-29143, 18 :
Decomber 1967 (201-82.3964).

T. Vet Offeet Publication Corp & Web Paper Sales Co, - NPIL.

U. 4C&P Telephone Company, V ashington, D.C., - NPIL
The telophone numbor cited in rof A is not listed in the V ashington, D.C.,
Virginia or Maryland Directories; however, two different calle
placed to that number identified it ag a D.C, C&P Telephone number,
office of Mioo T He RN, A Mise R OS S answered the phone. »

5 v. Varren SEIN CK (uJ. Thie undoubtedly io Verren James
H EN ChRLE Fore oe bors tober 1938, San Freanciaco,
Californif# graduate of tho University of San Francisco; editor of =

dontina bitter ris
n May 1967, The cover

\
“Sy

of the December 1967 icoue showed the burning of draft cards of ei
HINC K LE and threo other Ramparte officials, HINC KLE Ef
was presented tho Emorgency Civil Liberty Committee's (ECLC) ff ee
Tom Payne Award at tho annual ECLC Bill of Rights Dinner in é|

New York City in Decembor 1967. He repertedly spent some weeks

in Prague prior to Rampart's expooure of JKLANCE and upon his
return the Rampart's deficit was settled, He resigned co President -
and Editorial Director of Ramparts in January 1969 when tho magazine
wont bankrupt. He bogan the naw monthly magazine, Scantan,. with
two New York Timea, staffers. The firat isoue wae published in
March 1970, He-reported|y is a heavy drinker of scotch whiskey.

SANK SEE

RARER BRR ERS


14-900000.. Bisa

Sa aGANEN OE 7 TRATES EOC AR
, DISPATCH RYBAT/SECRET : UFAW w1264

Per WH/Mianii 10769, 17 March 1971, E RO ¥ N's file, Scanlan
Magazine has exprossed an interest in purchasing the publication

¥.

Military Arniament Company - previously listed on page three
of Ref A. :

* ; 6
x. Doris P AT Z- The files reflect that £ Doris PAT
born 27 June 1949 in Kerlin, Germany, V cst German
was a ILNLEVY counter-intelligenc: in March 1967,
Her address at that time was(?? Prinzeasinenstr), Berlin, West

Germany GA
2. Any additional information which comes to our attention on

the foregoing personalities will be forwarded to you,

fy hay
” Gloria L,

Lok
NOROSE1L.

rights to the chapter of © R OW N's hook entitled "The Phanton: Navy.

yee le



14-)0000

i

G05)Port * venue, New York, Ne. 10022
e- Tel: (HA 1-0680)

PERSONAL HISTORY RECORD

ear eine : Date: B= 22-

john

Naren Soc, Sec. No.

Present Acdress:

Besiness
Prone No..

Permanent * .. aosaant SSiantets . Phene No.

Date of Birth issaaet Place of Birth

___ How & When Obtained by Sieth :

Citizen of

Maried

Singte Widowed Divorced Separated

Number of Chitdren

Aces cf Children

Dependents Other Than Wife cr Chilcren _ -.

a June, Lys4 dulv, 19s4

: Foteign Residenceis) _=VPSAires From Nove, LS4 Td Cag —L-

F trayvesiing From July, LOSd Toxox., Lost Eee
From To.

albu ero, Ny Mex,
& Loc Yeas Date Subjects Studied
EDUCATION | of School Attenced Graduated oi Degtee Obtained

Manasers

Refeied by: — VF. Le als

Grammar School
: Lander Grade.

High Schoo!
renoat ©

Goiteee ot University
Casper Lo!

ikea Dot. Nex., Sibusuerque, s. cex.  Lusuck
4 : bene, sibuiaeriue,

oe: i 1 Ot CO. pr
receive

pe Sasne ede (Chenistry}
ved. (Spanisi)
: .

O01

heduled for Narch 2
_ ae Fale rad

Spenish

0 you SPEAK Fuently?

o),travel,and academic
study -
roscaren in radia. ou.

Works. ta alfredo Chaves

SOT avd Ths, co

| qareh part guide for one semester of tetecourre in_cowersational.
1 isthe on ay :
ats ae : : : as oft!
JOSE U.S. Military oF ve s : Present Membership ot .

National Guard ot Reserves —-.



14-0000. i ’ Po eg

87LoOw

for community
Sy HOPU WOOLY
1] oasair coov;—

ncecss ig

naTTshour wiHl Te
ysat ora rams pudio sune

sion, Hubbard udestz Co. (nQu-An-
B7LO4g.

radio pers
ice giree

(Speech, _radio- iv),
eV" experience _

began work on advanced dezree
(2) took KYME on to sain

empleyerZremont_Uraadcastine Ine. (KOVYitadio)——
A205 1436) 82520 canes

é:_staff agnouncer, writines, matherine, and _onsair-doliver
ciacurine minrsnance and trouble-shootiac uncer suncry.
_ninute anount_of_sclliag (all

Aderess Lander,.

# Descripti

of nevs, miner_en:

wrote

cases to retura to school. except in. 2-65 wheaeanlayment cas_—

oaly

—---- Empieyer_ State of uvemineg,
of vlant indust

~ Address t ol

ivicic

crate Job ineluged in
control methods with. chemicals. worked summer. months

control

phicuth

weeds.

Wide...
+, to retura to

only

. 7 7 ae uv
Agrtes, “in Date Avatable tor &: _ duly! Notice Required 6 weeks minimum =
i : =
: List potow the Ad addresses of three persons rot related to you whom you have known at least five yous.b
lee Suesett by Seessesteseener 4 HT} AI, Settexs 8710650
AZZ .souta saird: wader, «oe 32520 iret
+ barge J LWAPOR, ve Le” ebuieraues, ve Mex. S7LLO o
ce
at detects s “
Tar fay sede Lander, “vow (307) ).332-3397.
Address Phone

,



14,00000 _

(403 Po. wenve, New York, N.Y. 1002?
Tel,{HA 10680)

” PERSONAL HISTORY RECORD &

: ° Oate:_ 3.

Soc. Sec. No. 52

Name _is

Home ssraeseiy
Present Acdtess: Phone No.(555)
Business |
Phone No.L55)

Permanent Ader s aa . Phone No, Ss 2nt@.. 0 oo

ate of Birth oer at Place of Birth SOS, ar bsone nae shuesy
Citizen of ea ae How & When Obtained oy birth.
ttaried . Single Widowed Divorced “_Sepatated
tiumber of Chitcres == Ages of Children

Dependents Other Than Wife ot Children

Foreign Redicence’s) Vienna, austria. From cb. , 1063 To late June, 1983
From To soe :
From a To
Refented ty: ut... Yovne nav, Presron usnacer veka) Si bucuergue, vex texico! i
Name & Location Years Date Subjects Studied
EDUCATION of School Attended Graduated or Degree Obtained
oEEseee 7 acneral
General
- chy abbu rye, Ned Academic
zehcol, Aluayuerque, + 1937-L999 i Academic
i ses exico, Arbuau _LviO-1967 1564 B.A. sine lis'

AseArt iiistar

DAMA, 4

What Foreign Languages in .

do you SPEAK Fluently?_Geruin (tisited fluency): 1 uadersrand—some cuanishs

a READ_ nidpanish Ciimited) oo WW... jstgamnge ~. -
WRITE i. tie eee ans ae ae praaee® ie az

How was knowledge acquited? aero iuor. und seaester_of. studv.in Austria.-.- en

Spanish - two vears Ligh school study and resideace in-wew ac ico

Subjects of Special Study or Research Work:
(awe ches

wiorraphical and.critical study fofiuth.conturv. artist—
serreh- into’ or en icon rican relixious art.

tas of

orks, Publis:

Caot TLL ONL 2 teaab Viliud, cuiversity of «

ue

Age? (Abstract cad catulosue, fraaieke thesis ox semen

“ALS. eHtntary ot : Present Membership
——-— Rank J National Guitd-or Reserves

Naval service oe dae

Mombershin-in Motessional Organizations La iese art Asseciataoncof -saerieay


14-90000

reaces ani

a 49
at 7 Caiver:ity of ses -exice
eal coe

available
Coater,

albugaer jue, Sew

Finat Salary Addess oiler.

6 si ef Dutes eacher.

tua held & Eret 2

diterature 3 s-oason.- school a

Reason fr Leae

fwd = 95 7

2 n.wZ____ Employer University.of ded nesico,.“erar

Address aieco lw ee

Position Held & Evi
anc Lecturi.

says uni examinations,

Reason for Leaving SO3PLetion of caster" s/desrce oe

_ Employet_ Covlereof:2

:
Finat soy 228 a

Position Held & Bre

‘

Address _ Albu jucrsue, vor sexico——-
ties of Dutics_ Cleric.
ut.20rp)

socPetary=—scne:

~ l_secretariaj—and_recording
wplication;_orcparing puoslic. relations copy;——
ildinz dedication; sallery curatorial and...
_seereta

Reasoa for Li

Fiom_ G = 62. _y2___ Employer_verry Mansfield.School forDrama.
Finat Satary cn asatess__ Steamboat. Springs, Colorada 2

Pos

a Heid & &:

£ Descc-ction of Guties: Cou for girls aged 6 = 113 Cox

for unit.
of avout i

|
|
i
|
|
i
i
|
\
|
|
|
|
|

_end of su:

Reason for bes

J Apptosiciate Date Ava o Enpioysent with RTV_ July 2, bV63

. Notice Requited.5. weeks. minimus

REPRODUCTION

tre.ge the names

4d addresses of thrce persons not related to you whom. you have known at least five years.

_uartaouth orive wi. ~Aibuguergue, 8. cei. Sfbie

ICROFICHE

ernuan 2ts:.adsira. Aus : os poe

DESTROY AFTER USE ~~

Incase of Emergency N

Comin, 77 cafavette vr. 4.25:
‘Name Address

bug crue,

Daethiv ize ivestiaat 4

0 af al! Stotements contained in this application.

ati. bcbin Wencan/

SIGNATURE:



14-00000

- MICROFIGNE REPRODUCTIONS

DESTROY-AFTER pie

compiete Gibelor sates ane 3 :

at7 * Caivers ity exicu Nement Coiter,
aie Rous, aev

ad Ensicye: aaa tcublic Scroois. 7 eres eeieg

MEPaPG eae Pho

sehuol, 71

cf Sues cacher “= sevcatecredetbeuitica, .1.ish

ditcrature—5..-o2532..-. echosl ac.

corpietion of aster's desree

Reason for Leaving

To 3 = 95 __ Employer —Soilegeof-s: ‘incor

Final Saisty 4

Position nets & &:.

sdutics;-cnoserins

tsehint oom oublication;
relations tor building dedication; sallery curatorial

wwerty_duty 2, 1903. notice Required 3. weeks mia. 7
EF ERENCES ye.gw the names ang addresses of thice péiscas not related to you whom you have known at feast five years.
eranx Class alee, wartsouth wrive woe. | Adbuquer sue, ae oe flv.
air Sinacroian + vageira 2. Aipuquerque -
iiss Gcorce seigsoey .... Sindiacurk, Nexico — fe
Meeatse a,. 717 asPavette sre32-- Albds erque, 62 ie 87k
Nome Address Phone 11. ja 9:59

of off statements contained in this urplicati

Aad A hia Meenont

Fotis

SIGNATURE:


14-0000

|
| : ae us SECRET
[REQUEST FOR APPROVAL OR- inVESTIGATIVE ACTION

(Always handcerry B copy of this form)
PLEASE COMPLETE EACH SECTION AND APPROPRIATE BLANE

I

aa Gere 19ee

‘ | [evorcear ons APPROVAL AND SUPPORT DIVISION FROM: Andrew J. Percival, Jr-
i THIEF, INVESTIGATION AND SUPPORT DIVISION, OFFICE OF SECURITY be ea aes
: ‘E CHIEF, PERSONNEL SECURITY DIVISTON, OFFICE OF SECURITY
i SUBSECTS 295 paOseer:
| [eeese noon John Thomas DUXCAN Saine |

[caveronvas. PSEUDOWYH, AKA OR ALIASES ct/Oa FILE WO. j
{ i
| at zor FILE NOs
{ f

4. TYPE ACTION REQUESTED

[“]rconcromn oreenriowar aroeovat GaGTiSroNAL PROPRIETARY APPROWAL

{ __[oremationat arrrovat PROPRIETARY APPROVAL

Ig [enovistona covent aecunity apraova, || covert wawe_ cutee

COVERY SECURITY APPROVAL ‘SPECtAL INQUIRY (SO field inveotigation)

CONTRACT TYPE a <j
2. SPECIFIC AREA OF USE
Hollywood, Florida
3. FULL DETAILS OF USE

Reporter/Angourncor for the ANTIDE Production Facility

YES wo
x
8. cia surerest way be sHoun ourtna tnvesticationt [meoat z

i
I

CONTRACT TYPE 8

4. WIVESTIGATION AND COVER

U.S. GOVERKHENT INTEREST UAY OF SHOU! OURING HiVESTIGATIOR?

i
'

1 fle. t9 suosecr quant oF u.s. covennwenY su7encsT 1H wie Pr
i |
Ho. tS SUQJECT AWARE OF CIA INTEREST IW HINT =
-
le. tDICATE ANY LEHITATIONS Of COVERAGE’ th THE HHVESTIGATEON OF SUBJECT. use own discretion
|
Y le. suscest “coves PRETERT" TO CE USED If CoNDUCTIEG PCASONAL INVESTIGATION OF SUBJECT. 4,
. Sloe Vou Flan VO wane SUBIECT WITTING OF ACENEY On COVERRUENT IwTeREST? [ves 1 [xo

7 t— Tee wo investiGaTiow OUTSIDE Cla, EXPLAIN FULLY
“ feller |
: beam a 3. PRO AND GREEN LIST STATUS
HS [Gr Jeno e. on Covivatent. Ww ¢2) coptes attacheD Pro tt WELL BE FORAROED
oe PRO tf, OR EQUIVALENT, Im {1} COPY ATTACHED {fs LIST ATYACHEO. MOF
Tie ©. RI TRACES
ge [_]no secon ferek ronwano Lax [won-oenocatony. |__| oewocarony arracnto
7. DIVISION TRACES

[Jno eecono Teg [ove roneano L_[now-oenocatony “TT [eetocntanr atracnee

O. FIELD TRACES

[Jeo recone Trex [itt Fonwano

[uray sounces cueceeo SO —*dC—C*d st mr acane_tnronmarnon ar racnee

area (Yerwiilon), J =
an

MI



pein ci

,ABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION, CLASSIFIED MESSAGE Tora Cortese. ve {OUTING AND/OR INITIALS - SEEN BY
PERSON/UN. ED Grover ent
oo SECRET waciiStn
“| (When Filled ta) Sowmcai 02
REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIL
ee (Es leans 2

woe: O ves 1 no

z CLASSIFY TO FILE NO.

er ar

HEF TO FLE NO. :
pissem ov $. eer s Fwe wo Caer. 10  peanch!
roy

gli cory [me Lfpil etait es

SE CRE T @218012 JUL 68 CITE JMCORRA va
— i
@NWEDE

REF TM 222313 27 JUNE 68

Cae

FROM AMONG RESUMES PROVIDED REF THE MOST PROMISING

CANDIDATE FOR JOB OF ANWIDE TRAVELING CORRESPONDENT/

SCRIPT WRITER IS JOHN THOMAS DUNCAN. REQUEST HOS

INITIATE NECESSARY CLEGRANCES FOR WHATEVER FOLLOW-UP

CONTACT WE MAY DECIDE upon. \

SECRET \
BT

MICROFICHE REPRODUCTIONS
~'DESTROY AFTER USE -

SECRET ©


ia

MEMORANDUM FoR: Chief, WH/COG/PP

S-E-C-R-E-T
(When Filled In)

ATTENTION Andrew J. Percival, Jr.
SUBJECT : DUNCAN, Jchn Thomas
#517 682

Reference is made to your request dated 24 June 1968 for a

: i.
Provisional Covert Security Approval to permit contact and assessment
ct for use as a reporter/announcer for the AMWIDE Production

Facility.

2. In accordance’ with the provisions set forth in Clandestine
Services Instruction No. 10-5 and Clandestine Services Instruction
Field No. 10-5, a Provisional Covert Security Approval is granted
for the use of the Subject as described in your request as set forth

in paragraph 1, above.
3. Subjects of Provisional Covert Security Approvals are not

to represent themselves as, nor aré they to be represented as, employees
of CIA.
4. Your attention is called to the fact that a Provisional Covert
Security Approval does not constitute complete compliance with the
provisions of CIA Regulation 10-3. Therefore, if you should desire at
a later date to change the status or use of this individual, a request
for approval to cover any proposed change should be submitted to this

office.
5. This approval becomes invalid in the event action is not

taken within 90 days of the date of this memorandum.
pesteettet)
/

<
MICROFICHE REP
DESTROY arte Geeons

or of Securit;
(os)

7 ee ¢

Victor R. White ~/

Deputy Direct y /
; /

E V



REF: JMCOBRA 0179 (IN 42660) ae €

TY, USING REGISTERED ALIAS AND.IDENTIF YING *

HIMSELF AS PERSONNEL REP FOR VARIOUS PRIVATE:AND GOVT

.
ACENCIES, HELD PHONE CONVERSATION WITH SUBJ GF REF IN

ALBUGUERQUE, SUBJ WAS TOLD HIS NAME HAD TURNED UP AS
RESULT OF SEARCH THROUGH MEDIA OUTLETS FOR INDIVIDUALS
WITH SPANISH LANGUAGE BACKGROUNDS (SINCE SUBJ'S NAME CAME

T}, SUBS AGREED TO MEETING WITH

ICROFICHE REPRODUCTIONS

2. MEGENNITY PLANS TRAVEL ALBUQUERQUE EVENING 22 Jt

a

¥OR MEETING FOLLOWING MORNING, “SINCE SUBJ HAS PRESENTL

“ONLY PCSA, MEETING ONLY FOR ASSESSMENT PURPOSES, MEGENNIEY

EXPLAIN GENERAL
HATURE OF JOB AND LOCATION IN JMCOBRA AREA, AND INDICATE

continued,’

. COORDINATING OFFICERS itera ;
i} 7 7
witieane erie 4 é
* i SEC RET

REPRODUCTION GY OTHER. THAN-THE ISSUING OF FiCE, iS PR

“DESTROY AFTER USE ~

aL,



14-00000
sucdee

SEGHET.. oi GOS

* - SALARY IN $10,000 BRACKET. FOLLOWING INITIAL A

ASD ASSUMIKG SUBJ INTERESTED, SUGGEST BARTILUCCI FOLLOW
UP WITH MEETING FOR FINAL APPROVAL AND HIRE, :

3, CONCERNING OTHER PROSPECTIVE AMWIDE EMPLOYEES, *
PCSA'S PRACTICALLY COMPLETED ON THOSE ANSWERING AD-
VERTISEMENT, INTERIM vi LETTER SENT TO ALL ADVISING OF

' EMPLOYER INTEREST, SINCE THREE ARE IN NEW YORS AREA,
MEGENNITY ACAL NS TO MAKE INITIAL ASE INDIVi-

: DUALS GN Wi , BE CONTACTED INITIALLY BY NEAREST gy
OFFICE OF P TO ASCERTAIN THE 24
AVAILABILITY, WILLINGNESS CONSIDER WOFIRM EMPLOYMENT, Ba
PLUS BROADEST OUTLINE OF JO3/TSELF, THOSE CANDIDATES WHO ise
STILL REMAIN UNDER CONSIDERATION CAN BE CONTACTED FOR e 3
FURTHER ASSESSMENT BY MEGENNITY BEFORE BEING TURNED OVER Ee
‘:@ BARTILUCCI FOR FINAL HIRING, -

continued’

COORDINATING OFFICERS

ial
HGR THAN THE, ISSUING: OF;



Lrssace FORM
: TOrAL CORES:

elit ott tal

sci

ri] CJ rae mcs meno

MIN MISSOURL DISCUSSIONS WILL CENTER AROUND

y-2 CAN TAKE, IN CONJUNCTION WiTH HIS COSTA

R ye FACILITATE EARLY APPROVAL OF MEGAWATT

ST JL:COBRA COMMENTS AND INPUT CONCERNING |
WILL ADVISE OUTCOME OF TRIP.

END OF Bi

Cen fr —
WH/SECURITY, EPR :

DESTRO

MICROFICHE REPRODUCTIONS

LE SOORDITIATING OFF

-SECRET

dynes

y AFTER USE ~

N
.


14-00000

2 e Cicsessistits SECRET
~PEQUEST FOR APPROVAL OR i ESTIGATIVE ACTIGH

(Atenya handcarey J copy of this form)
PLEASE COMFLETE EACH SECTION AND APPROPRIATE BLANK

14 Seay Ges

TO:] | cysopERATIONAL APPROVAL ANO SUPPORT DIVISION FROM: andrew J. Percival, Jr.
CHIEF, INVESTIGATION 28D SUPPORT DIVISION, OFFICE OF SECURITY ihe 6820
ix] CHIEF. PERSONNEL SECURITY DIVISION, OFFICE OF SECURITY bad
SUBJECT: PROJECT
John Thomas DUNCAN
i (Teve nace) ‘ AMWXDE. EEE

| caveronva, PsEudOMVH, axa OF ALIASES letyoa Fite No.

SO FILE NO.

1. TYPE ACTION REQUESTED
PROVISIONAL PROPRIETARY APPROVAL

[_[paoraretany araovau

suovisional CovesT SGcUmITY APPROVAL [[eovenr wawe_cnece
1 ><, covert secu SPECIAL INQUIRY (50 Flold inveotigation) *

feonraact wees dS connec Tere
2. SPECIFIC AREA OF USE 7
Hollywood, Florida
[ 3. PULE CETAILS OF USE

PROVISIONAL OPERATIONAL APPROVAL

OPERATIONAL APPROVAL

!

. Reporter/Announcer for the AHWIDE Production Facility
i Dpuk moa ee A X LCL io f
[Sate tanner saseeeas pee,

COVERHUENY 1uTCAEST KAY GE SHOR OURING INVESTIGATION?

Ce 18 SUBJECT AWARE OF U.S. COVERKMENT INTEREST TH WIHT

€. INDICATE ANY LIMITATIONS OM COVERAGE IN THE tNVESTHGATION OF SUBJECT

. SUGEEST “COVER PRETEXT® YO OC USED HW CONDUCTING PERSONAL InvEsTIGAT#On OF SUDIECT. 4,

S750 vou PLAN TO MANE SUDJECT WITTING OF AGENCY OR GOVERNMENT INTERESTI
Te HO IWVESTIGATION OUTSIDE Cla, EXPLATH FULLY

B- PRQ AND GREEN LIST STATUS
[ae [rns = on couivacent._ iw (ay cores _sriacneo [Jono 11 wit ot ronwanoro °
Gao tty OR EQUIVALENT, 1H (1) COPY ATTACHED [a [reneew cist arracneo. nor

@. RE TRACES
[Jno Recono

WILL FORGARD %_[ Non-penocatoay

7. DIVISION TRACES

NON- DEROGATORY, DEROGATORY ATTACKED

SECRET

!
4


bisseet by

Tora. Comes ~5*
SECRET euieine oe
{Whoo Filled tn) rep od
REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED
i

wor Oo ves Ono’.

cLassiry ro) rue wont = 8 2 eis)

RCE TO FILE NO.,

rut ao Drer. to geancHC} vestaovt sig

acviGs

FE VR, anoaa wt & CLS 2, osbS 08.2205 /'
E —\ fae

ABSTRACT

ASSUSE MEGEWNLTY. WILL’ CHECK. OUT CANDIDATES" SPANISH
“LARGUAGE CAPABILITY WHICH APPLICATION FORiM rmpicatEs

1S LARGELY ACADEMIC. IN HIS CASE, POLITICAL VIEYS
OF HLS WIFE Gay ALSO BE RELEVANT. ON ANHURT. ENDORSE
EQS ALD SJOS VIEWS THAT PERSONAL TRIP TO COSTA
RICA BY AGHURT-1 SEEMS IN ORDER.
SECRET :

ST fates

Wo AFTER USE

MICROFICHE REPRODUCTIONS
< DESTHO

SECRET


1 4-09000

ol geen

7 July 1968

| OPERATIONS CONTACT REPORT

| SUBJECT: Mecting with IDEN and Wife

DATE AND PLACE: 23 July 1068, 1000 - 2000 Hours, Albuquerque,
New Mezico .

1. Clyde B, MEGENNITY first met IDEN alone during the morning
of 23 July; the meeting was held tn MEGENNITY's bstel room, MEGENNITY
introduced bimeclf es a representative of LNEARP, indicating te IDEN that
he was favolved {n work of a confidential nature for LRHARP, IDEN was
then given the brozd outline of the AMWIDE job. This included locatton in
RA area, work 28 a producer/ccript writer, pessible travel
tthe Carthhean, and a general calary bracket around $10, 000.
ni was alco teld that LNEARP would pay his trancpertatica and moving
costs to the JMCOBRA area.

2.

thet ho had elready intended to eubmit (on 1 August)
on notice from his current fod at tho University af
He indtested that he end kia wife planned to go
dag and travelling.
ques and operations in
fel ca possibility of having to
cancel thesa plans, however acknowledged the career job opportunities
that the AMWIDE offer would afford him.

3. In answering additional questions about the job itself, IDEN was
told thet he would be. working ostensibly for a commercial company en-
gaged in the preparation of prograni materials for the Latin American

arte Cearaeaeaty audience. IDEN was advised that these programs would be af social/
(hes economic nature, designed to be progressive and reformist in tone.
: HT : IDEN seemed most interested in the concept and, according to several
se remarks he made throughout the day, the nature of the broadcasts fite

in quite well with his own political thinking concerniag the Latin America
area.

01? i
orrtrn ss

SECRET


14-0000

enoret

<2-

i

4. At noontime MEGENNITY met IDEN's wife. She is an intelli-
gent and vivackous person who obviously would be very much interested
in, and involved in, anything her busband would be doing. She was given
more or less the same cover run down concerning the AMWIDE job. She
expressed great tnterest and asked if there was any role she could do in
this venture.

5. During the afternoon LDEN and his wife drove MEGENNITY
throughout the Albuquerque and Santa Fe area showing him several sights,
but also discuseizg the overall job considercticas and ramificattens.

6. IDEN indicated to MEGENNITY that his Spanish was adequate for
handling virtually all situations. “He feels completely at ease verbally
with the language and indicated he could conduct Spanish interviews and
personal reporting jobs for AMWIDE. It did not seem appropriate to test
his Spanish capabilty, Mis wife hae Uttle or no Spanish. Neither IDEN
nor hie wife bas travelled or lived in the eastern United States. The idea
of going to the JMCOBRA area obvicusly ts new to them and they approach-
ed ff with come reeervations, MEGENNITY indicated that tf a chort viatt
to the JMOOBRA area micht caticfy their curfesity, and aceict them In
mating a deeicion conc ig tha aeceptance of tha AMWIDE job, that
such a visit could probably be arranged.

7. itis MEGENKITY's opinion that beth these individuals are
highly culted for the AMWIDE job. They are curious intellectually, have
a very prag 4c qutloc!s on polttical matters, are most enthuctastic
shout thiegs which tnterest them, and scem Like a fine team asset to have
at tho AMWIDE Facility. MEGENNITY feels, wherever possible, we
ehould make inducements to insure that IDEN and his wife decide favorably
in acceptance of the AMWIDE job, MEGEUNNITY urged them to call him at
any time they hed questions and coueideratians and, above all, not to make
any final decieion (particularly negative) withost discussing it with MEGE- 2 u:
NNITY (what MECENNITY had fn ind hore, was the floxibility to suggest Pp. ie

UC
R tes

that they might go to Europe for «.3 long as three months and then return <= ~*~

to start at the AMWIDE job around 1 December). wes

Se

6. The experience in visiting the IDENS, both of whom are young, cg

without rosts - elther family or professionally -.and who are already =a
giving up their current jobs, indicates that the problem of recruiting =

personnel for AMWIDE is indeed going to be a difficult one. It ig BiEGE-
NNITY's opinion that from all the other candidates we will hardly find



14-90000

gennrt

: -3-

i eae

H anyone who fe mene fn a position ta te:

i STRONG. Allgsssivic ette ae
I te aga thom on beard,

|

lI

Clyéa B. MECENEETY



14,00000
mil aed

ATPTACEMENT TO: Operations Cex

Report (26 Sely 1063)

IDENTITY - Je&n Themas Duncan
Kete Co!

oe eres

{3 SECRET


| AN

{ \ ( ee MESSAGE FORM
\ utils Qa a
otto as! ir a= ee 3T
cut” ¢/WH/COG/PP 4 SECRET PY
wo. 6820/1255 :
one 30, JULY 1968... _ seeage eel
caste Stcueragioy O1SSEMINATION Co moex EC] cesteor J ttumn to. omanen fre
= 2¢ ee eet DD woworx =] ewe vcs ene mo.
uw £4

Cone: ~ eeeasicre soos ne jam 2
Wifeoe F [EJ mmcorr| wy

YW Wb, CCS,
C365. wt

haute 6H wee’ teed

CITE DIRECTOR

SECRET FRA O92 Jub
PRIORITY JMCOBRA ; 206ean
S. _ AMWIDE [

“REFS: DIRECTOR 19682
SJMCOBRA 0408 (IN 59016)

adic asia esac ing

1, DUNCAN CALLED MEGENNITY MORNING 30 JULY TO RE-
ITERATE HIS INTEREST IN AMWIDE PROSPECTS, STATED HOWEVER
HE HAS SOME RESERVATIONS CONCERNING AMWIDE COVER "VENEER".

AND EFFECT EXPOSURE MIGHT HAVE ON FUTURE EMPLOYMENT IN
ACADEMIC OR MEDIA FIELDS, %.

“3

2, DUNCAN STATED HE INTERESTED IN VISITING JMCOBRA AREA
FOR FAMILIARIZATION AND DISCUSS FURTHER AMWIDE JOB. HE ;
AVAILABLE 4 - 6 AUG, AND 17 - 19 AUG. BUT WISHES ARRIVE EARLY

DECISION RE AMWIDE. REALIZE FORMER DATE DIFFICULT TIME

be
oy
je
Q

BOTH TRAVEL AND AcCdMODATIONS, BUT DEFER JMCOBRA FOR

MICROFICHE REPRODUCTIONS

pt

FINAL DETERMINATION,

i
&
a

___coonomatine ornicees
exveasing of:68 | SECRET

RIPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE !S PROHIBITED.

| , AUTHENTICATING
25 omiean

Sawin



MESSAGE FORM GOUTING AND/OR HHITIALE - SLEW OY
Totat copies: ’ ls Eee
onic: alls ;
unr: SECRET "
ia ry
bate 6
CAGLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION (DF woex — ([] vestnov werunn To_____ onancw © {7} Fit c
ay. Pea. ft. (I) nomex =] Fite oes eng wo,
“tones POT
CL] Rio COPY
ruc va
: PAGE TWO
(creomaa Wsinheoren! a :
: 7 (date Gnd tio tiles) (reteronco aumbor)
¥ SECRET
puny gee aenenwenz sus SuETLGESETE ave RECTOR

fel

720 bet

oO
3. MEGENNITY IS TO CALL DUNCAN MORNING 1 AUG. PLS
ADVISE BY COB 31 JULY TRAVEL PREFERENCE, PLUS PLANE & HOTEL

RESERVATIONS, MEETING INSTRUCTIONS AND ALIASES TO BE USED
WITH DUNCAN, JMCOBRA SHOULD PURCHASE PLANE TICKET TO

BE PICKED UP BY DUNCAN IN ALBUQUERQUE, CHARGE TRIP EX-
PENSES & PER DIEM233 FAN, 9135-2847.
4. DUNCAN STILL HAS ONLY PCSA CLEARANCE AND NO DEFINITE
WOFIRM COMMITMENTS CAN BE MADE, AMWIDE FACILITY SHOULD
NOT BE IDENTIFIED BY NAME OR SPECIFIC LOCATION, ALTHOUGH
DUNCAN WILL BE MOST INTERESTED IN ITS COVER LEGEND AND
ACTIVITIES, BARTILUCCI SHOULD MEET ONLY UNDER ALIAS,
nai 5. HQS POUCHING D : TAILED CONTACT REPORT BY MEGENNITY
'TM-222341, 30 JULY 1968.)

senile lane atasiecdite s+ overdubbed nbd me daidesebeie gale thee ete

_
€
E
7
aa
<a
©
&
ba
8
tut

WHICH SHOULD BE USEFUL&
6. DUNCAN TOLD TRAVEL AUTHORIZED ON:.Y FOR HIMSELF,

. MICRO

BUT IT POSSIBLE HE MAY ELECT BRING WIFE,
END OF MESSAGE : ap

4

. i coonninana orvieras a
Ean ‘ RELEASING OFFICER | SECRET we | Pe _AUTHENTICATIN:

t
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

corr



14-00000

ONS UNIVERSITY INN, COAL

D CONVENTION, WE MUST
“PLS NOTIFY. ZEEPHAT 5
CONTACT DUNCAN AT
‘AS OVERRIDIG

ik UPON

E REPROD

MICROFICH



14-00000

MESSAGE FORM
jTorat conits:

myjr in : _ a
“Jb-SECRETLY
5 1, 6820/1255
4 °! | AUGUST 1968 0 = ne - ae 7
i CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINETION i fo woe [} estoy = [J ometurn to. kanes =f] Fue
i 4B a ee Sree a wo moex om FILE UES FILE NO.
: Het: i ie cee sastesteseeiSseteeceeiston ig
; aut we COGS oO RID COPY | MFO ig
Stier seemed Ny U CCS
CSRS - :
' pena Gar esd’ os "tne tind ac
i i
5 SECRET - ee iy
SECRET ‘a deze CITE DIRECTOR 21386
4 10 us 68 =
‘ JMCOBRA
i AMWIDE

REF: JMCOBRA 0443 (IN 61326)

DUNCAN WILL MAKE HIS OWN RESERVATIONS AND TRAVEL
PLANS PER REF, WILL AWAIT JOHN KENNINGTON'S CALL MORNING
OF 5 AUG AT UNIVERSITY INN, IN ADDITION REIMBURSEMENT FOR
TICKET, STATION SHOULD ALSO PROVIDE DUNCAN PER DIEM ALLOW-
ANCES, FYI: HQS OFFICER IN TOUCH WITH DUNCAN USING ALIAS oe

RONALD D. SAINE,

IND OF MESSAGE

WH/B&F
a C/PRG/CCS eae ae
ae ». fin ex
«.. WIEIEAM V. BROE “7— DAVID A. PHILLIPS
: C/WHD 64 ot C/WH/COG
(oo, EOONDINATING OFFICERS Q
if ™M PELEASING OFFER Ss E Cc R E T fe

REPKGOUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE 1% PROHIBITED



14-09000

ABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION C.SSIFIED MESSAGE £ _Tevar Comes, rc. "TING AND/OR INITIALS - SEEN BY

ERSON/ONIT NOTED

SECRET waafSuo~

{When Filled fa)

Perrin

REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED

wo: O ves 0 xo

CLASSIFY TO FILE NO

ev. ar. z
oissem ev. Bo _ PER rue ao C)rer. to erancn(] oestrov (I sic.
ose aS
wilcos B Ener neve QA WHR CCS2 csPS CAS
SFCRE T 062021Z AUG 68 CITE JMCOBRA 9512 6 Aes 68 IN65442
7 TIRECTOR we

TYPIC AMWIDE
REFS: A. DIR 21386
B. JMCOBRA 0301 C1 5/447)
|, STATION OFFICERS MET VITH.NR. DUNCAN 5 AND 6 AUGUST.

UE FOUND HIM COMPETENT AND’ SELF POSSESSED IN THIS PRINARY FIELD
OF INTEREST, BROADCASTING. HIS INTEREST. AND. BENT... POLITEGS
WERE LESS DISCERWIBLE. ON BALANCE, WE WILL BE GAMBLING THAT
EEE rman nenenerren ey

HIS OBVIOUSLY HIGH INATE INTELLIGENCE CAN ENCOMPASS DEVELOPNENT
OF A MORE FULLY ARTICULATE. POLITICAL SENSE, WHETHER OR NOT

ME ACCEPTS THE JOB CHE PROWISED TO NOTIFY HR. SAINEN OF HIS
DECISTON WITHIN THE COMING WEEK) WE WILL STILL REQUIRE A

NOW-US NATIVE SPAUISH SPEAKING NEWSMAN AS DESCRIBED REF Be

7 ae VE WILL THEREFORE REVIEW AND EXPAND APPEAL FOR SUCH TALENT.
i fone 2. MR. DUNCAN MET FOLLOWING STATION OFFICERS, art

USING ALIASES NOTED: NEBECKER (LARRY STAUNTON), BARTILUCCI.
ANDY PIERCE), LAUNEAUX (RAY ARNOLD), COPSIADAS <JIM LANE),
‘AND ZEEPHAT (JOHN KENNINGTON). HE WAS PAID $280.40 FOR AIR
TICKETS AND EXPENSES.
SECRET

arse a

SECRET



14-00000

magsace son
Torat corms: wu

7 SECRET |
6820/1255 ;

A@ AUGUST. 1968 . a
seceatamar GistrtsiATion (J wore] ossrtor = ([) aerven to________ eecanwcn 9 [[]_ ute ao
"6 CQ woo =] ae creo one no. 19-126-61/2

aiyeseE. | [Jno a 2 PL) y) ces 2. €9PS

wo hae.

paspepeengeansnane fotite) igen
Went anar

(cate ond tne Wes) (eterene umber;

-SECRET 12 422 tt cme peecroa DhDs
i JMCOBRA 4245255

AMVADE

“1. MR. DUNCAN PHONED MEGENNITY MORNING 13 AUG
SAYING KE HAD DECIDED ACCEPT AMWIDE JOB, DUNCAN TOLD
THAT FINAL CLEARANCES STILL IN PROCESS, HE NEVERTHELESS
PLANS DEPART ALBUQUERQUE END OF AUG FOR SIX WEEK TRIP
THROUGH CANADA, PASS THROUGH WASHINGTON, AND ARRIVE
JMCOERA AREA 140CT, HE WILL BE IN PERIODIC CONTACT WITH
MEGEKNITY EN ROUTE, ASSUMING CSA APPROVAL, CONTRACT CAN
BE SIGNED WITH DUNCAN AT EQS PRIOR JMCOBRA ARRIVAL,

wm
=\
2. MEGENNITY ALSO INTERVIEWED MR, ALEXANDER TSCHERNY= tut

O2

poe)
ia]
os
Se
Lie
faed
ws
cc
One
no”
ou
co
=
=

<°i13 AUG, HE CURRENTLY IN WASHINGTON JOB HUNTING, HE HAS HAD
WIDE EXPERIENCE IN LATIN AMERICA, MUCH OF IT WITH YOUNG MILI-
TARY OFFICERS AND STUDENTS, HOWEVER SOME OF HIS WORK HAS
BEEN.IN CONJUNCTION WITH LNREAD PROGRAMS, anby WOULD NEED

SCME ORIENTATION TO FIT AMWIDE OBJECTIVES, HAS EXCELLENT

coorpimaming ‘oFriceas ; continged/

{ 1

anteasinG ofricer { : i
| SECRET i : beg

RE*RODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE 15 PRONIBITED. 6 sens

wane



14,00000

MESSAGE FORM

AP ETA ENAT Gist ATION {CJ eesrmor = [[] seruam to

we Lj ene mn es rus Ho.

PAGE TWO |

Eaten tees
SECRET
inant a CIVE ORECTOR
i SPANISH AND MIGHT EVEN BE ABLE HANDLE NARRATOR CHORES A024
1S A BACHELOR AND PRESENTLY AVAILABLE, HE BELIEVES $12, 000
SALARY LOW, BUT WOULD PROBABLY ACCEPT, MEGENNITY FEELS
HE PREFERABLE TO BLASCO OR BUDMAN, DUE HIS AVAILABILITY,
SUGGEST HE FLY TO JMCOBRA FOR YOUR ASSESSMENT.
3, BLASCO AND BUDMAN PRESENTLY STANDING BY, BLASCO
INDICATED 12 AUG RE MUST KXOW SOONEST RE AMWIDE, SINCE HE
PLANNING ALTERNATIVE OF RETURNING TO BRAZIL, IF JMCOBRA
FEELS BLASCO WORTH PERSONAL INTERVIEW, SEOULD ADVISE HQS
PRIOR TO MORNING 16 AUG WHEN MEGENNITY WILL AGAIN CONTACT
BUDMAN ALSO PHONED 12 AUG TO RE-
(REMEMBER HE ASHING S15, 009). ; ITERATE HIS INTEREST AND AVAILARI

(MEGENNITY SUGGESTS HE BE KEPT ON HOOK FOR TIME BEING,
4, RECRUITMENT DIVISION INITIAL CONTACTS WITH OTH! AR

CANDIDATES HAVE NOT BEEN PROMISING. BRADBERRY ON VACATION
UNTIL 17 AUG, NOWACKI HAS ACCEPTED ANOTHER JOB. DARDEN WILI.
BE CONTACTED IN NEXT FEW DAYS. DEMAREST REQUIRES SPECIAL

: WOMACE APPROVAL, THIS ABOUT ROUNDS OUT ORIGINAL RESPONDERS
2 : $ :

TO ADVERTISEMENT, ;
rontinued/

creepiness

berets SECRET

1 OGLE TION BY OTHER THAN TEE ISSULEG OFTICE vy bac ina



14-00000 _

}
i
}

UME PREVIOUS — 2, 8tme aries nine ee eg
‘TOONS, 8, BO NOT GOASE H OUT AND CONTINUD TYPING. OO NOT ENCEED 69 TYPEWRITTEN Cunaacicns ree wine
'SWELUOING SPACED, OY TENT LINES WITHIN THE CIGHT MARGIN GUIDE APPaOPaIATE FOR YOUR TYPEWRITER,

mastacs roca
rotss conde:

os ; SECRET

(CD wesx  [) eesrror

() so trom =] ene nn es ene wo.

(CO soezruss ro.

PAGE THREE totise)

(eee tcchen} (exte ond tone tiles) Veterence purber.

SECRET
oS cre ormecton

ae 5, TENTATIVE ARRANGEMENTS HAVE BEEN MADE For (749° 7

AMHURT-1 TO VISIT HQS 28 AUG, DETAILS CONCERNING COVER

AND RELATIONSIZP WITH AMWIDE WILL BE DISCUSSED, FINAL il

COMMITMENTS WILL OF COURSE DEPEND ON FORMAL

AUTHORIZATION AND OPS APPROVAL BY AMB, WILL DISCUSS SHORT
AND MEDIUM WAVE PACKAGES AS SEPARATE PROSPECTS, AMHURT-1
WILL NATURALLY WISH DISCUSS FINANCIAL REMUNERATION FOR AIR

hese :
TIME, “SCH WE WILL ATTEMPT MAKE GOOD ON HIS PREVIOUS MAG-

BOTH SHORT AND MEDIUM WAVE STILL VALID AS TOP OFFER,

- 6, REQUEST STA COMMENTS,
END OF MESSAGE

“MICROFICHE REP
wSDESTROY AFTE

fe C/PRG/CCS_ hytong F fe

ecco naieraitial Y pee Aaa erate
7 \Cud 2 ay aafon ayy, Lf ale bev ohe Hebei. :
2) WILLIAM V. _BROE HAISELLaCA ee foxPamtp AL PHILLIPS
: | c/WHD a €/WH/COG.

a! q -

oo

COORDINATING REFICERS

! SFOCRET



BOUTING ADID/OM INIMALS - SEEN OY

MESSAGE FORE
Torat comtas:

one:

unit: SECRET
ent:

Date: 7 % !

CABLE SECERTAGIAT DISSEAUINATION (O ween, [1] vesrmoy  ((] eeruex to_______—._ banner (1. es ao

(0 wooms =] me ores mus ko.

er. rea
iaaete ml a cory | = =
— Clasicatioad Tata ond timo Fiod = umber) *
i SECRET qm oaxcroa

er AAGLSO -

WH/SEC. ¢ 4 Yee ——

_ wH/Bar’ ize Ctl
c/presccs Zi A ) ea ee

ICROFICHE REPRODUCTIONS
DESTROY AFTER USE ~

L
ernastie oe ._ =
Sg OD. 7
DAVID.A. PHILLIPS
behemapeoe BROE ; C/WH/COG

C/WHD
coorsmames opricins

Mises i

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE [S PRONIBITED. ©

wee em

AUTHENTICATING
OFFER

CORY



i acess

SEPARATE COVER ATTACHMENT TO: UPAw=84

: IDENTITY + dots Taemas Dezeaa

- SECRET.



14-0000;

gene

28589
RANDUM FOR: Chief, WH Division

Mr. Joseph Trainer

DUNZAL, dchn Thomes
#517 (82

1.
Covert Security Aspreval to permit

Reference is made te your request

d 19 July 1968 for a
ect's utilization as a Contract
ed as a Reporter/Announcer

ce B employee.
or the Am

Subject would be e:
‘TIDE Preduction Focility.

26

In accordance with the previsicns set forth in Clandestine
Services Instruction Wo. 10-5 and Clandestine Services Instruction-
Field No. 16-5, a Covert Cecurity Arpreval is granted for the use of
the Subject as described in your request as set forth in paragraph 1,
above, subject to the follesing restrictions:

A.

The Subfect will positively not be allcwed access
to any official Agency installation.

B. ‘The Subject must be afforded close supervision
and his access to classified info
- be on a strict “need to know" basis.

ition must

The Subject mist not be given th2 eauivalent
status of a staff euployee and his duties

must not be expanded without prior approval of
the Office of Security.

The Subject will net be pronised staff status

and no commitments will be made to him regarding
eventual stuff employment.

am
zy
3. Subjects of Covert Security Approvals ere not to represent eu
thenselves as, nor‘are they to be represented as, employees of CIA. of

| It_is assumed that proper coordination has been effected by ADDP =
for Subject's use as stated. Cu
et
4. Your attention is called to the fact that a Covert Security Wi-<
Approval does not constitute complete compliance with the provisions a >
of CIA Regulation 10-3. Therefore, if you should desire at a later “1©O
or
se

2g? =

=



14-00090

date to change the status or use of this individual, a request for
approval to cover any proposed - change should be submitted to this
office.

5. This. approval becomes invalia in the event the Subject's
services sre not utilized within six months of the date of this

memorandum.

Ee
Victor-R. White
elke Director of Security
(Ios)



14-00000

SECEEG

Lutes cf Starian, JinCOBhA

Chief, Aesters cextenhore Division
/Cleasaace, Travel and Costract oa identity

aay

a sotity. Ga that eame day
e, Hewk.erica, identity
for @ sizeweek trip

i

Gxtract, plonee acrise endo

quastecs paler tol Geiohes.

Clyde bs MEGERRITY
Distelbsiiea:
Orig and 3 - COS, JMOCOBRL

Attachment:
Identity e/o/e



14,00000
t :

1. Gm 2t August CSA approval was iseaed for Identity. On that same day
iiyde E MEGENNETY epeke with htm im Albuquerque, Newhextce, identity
isdicated that be would leave Albuguesque on 30 August for a siz-wees trip

though | Canada, Uo will arsive ef Headquarters arcund 9 Cctober, ales to
proceeding to GMCUBRA,

&. ft is inteated that identity t be betefed, and bis contract eigaed while
he is fn the Headsuasters area. & eoapapioae plans to provide idsntkty with
Go annual & y eS S16, C95, S the coving meas aad ether elise
ances given previeus Ali wIDE personnel, rs bia ORDA bes any gpecitic
ieateres they wisb tecerporated into Identtty’s cextract, pleazs aévise Eeade
quarters prior te i Ueloder.

Clyée BD, MEGERNITY

Mistribetioa:
Grig and 3 - COS, IHCUBRA

Attachment:
ideatity c/ofe

UFAWoS4

SECRET 19-126-61/2xn
i Ss
5 September 1968 C/wH/CoG/PP/| knjr <8Bo
or
Distribution: Se
1- RD = a
1 - WH/REG/C C/wH/Contsacts ee
1 -.0-C/WH/COG
1 - WH/CGG/PP C/WH/B&F
1+ C/WH/Conteacts
1 - C/WH/Bak
1.- 19-126-61/2

C/wu/coG | “David A. Philips -

