# 104-10049-10362

## Page 1

104-10049-10362

SECRET

20 October 1959

NEHORANDUM JOR THE RECORT

SUBJECT$

Highlightn of Tape-Recorded Conversation In Klani Between

Mr. Willlam D. Pawley and an Unidetifled Cubm during

Perlod 17-15 Ootober

Io On 20 Oetober the underaigned and

Jof WH/3

Lotened to the play-back of a tape, brought to Washlagton from lad

and given to Colonel, King by Mr. Parley on 19 October, which wan a

recording of tr. Pawley"s converuations with two Cabana during the

perlod 17-10 October. The first conversation was with an unidentifled

Cuban, believed to be a member of a group of vealthy anti-GASTRO Cubana,

members of which have talked to Ms, Pauley rectly about thels

plans for sabotage of the coming sugar haiyest an reported in UNlA32

dated 2 October. The necond Caban was APAChely & Cuban Journalist

of operational interent to Station Habana, and a separate memorandu

18 submitted on that conversation.

2.

The untdentifled Cuban, who had somohat of an accent and

spoke Indistinetly, was diffleult to underatand.

He mentioned a

moeting twith some of our prople who cane up from Cuba" to disowns

plans:

He said his group had bean contacted by a representative of

General Jose Eleutorio PEDIAZA, leader of Cuban revolutionary groua

in the Dominican Rapabl 1c, Who wanted to know what action their group

had taken and wan told that they had a plan "to start aabotage"..

The

Cuban sadd the PIDRAZA representative said their group (the PEDRAZA

group) had four provinces organised in Cuba, mentioning Camaguey and

Santa Clara,

and that they had two provinces yet to be organised

Habana and Matansas.

3. The Cuban nald his group needed two things - moral backing

and moneyy he pointed out that Cubana 11 Cube are afraid' to start an

undergroand movement, and there was no way to raise funde, ete.

Pavley gave him no encouragement on the noney angle, saying that even

18 there verg Anericans villing to run the rak of beconing tholved

In Cuban revolutiona sotivities by furalahing money for auch a

movement, which he doubted, he felt that at the present time it would

be. like "putting money don a rat-hale" for the following reasonus

(1) there 1a no unity anong the anti-CASTED groupa, and there are at

Jeant 10 that he lnowe of who are voriing absolutely independently of

one anothers and (2) CASTRO 1e In control of the country and has the

support of a large number of Cabana, espeotally the under privileged.

Mr. Pawley sald he felt the Cuban economio aituation was wormening

fast and that 1f 1t gets bad enough, a large nanber of Cubans will

turn on CASTED, but until that time comes 17 would be dangerous to

try to organise a revolutionary movemento

SEGRET

201-77378

200676

---

## Page 2

13-00000

SECRET

4o.

Nr. Pandey aaked the luban 11 his group felt they had moral

support of the U. 8. and the Cuban replied that:they wanted U. S.

moral support but whather they had it or not, they felt they were

obaiged to carry through with their plane.

Mr. Pawley said he didn't

lnow.what to tell him would have to think about it and see 1f any

thing could be dons. He anid, "having been connected with the U. S.

Goverment, I can't get Involved In revolutionary movemental.

Also.

nald he would hate to see the Doninican Goverment got Involved,

which night be diffloult to avoid with so many Cuban exilen there,

but counted that he inderstood "the Donintean Government. hasn't

elven them a dimo".

Martha Tarpe

WH/IST/CARKE

SECRET

---

