# 104-10215-10204

## Page 1

104-10215-10204

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

596

DAIS

11 ост. 62.

SECRET

TO

DIRECTOR

FROM

MADRID

ACTION &

G/TFW 5 (TFW TEL O COPY SLOTTED AT 1900, 11 OCT 62)

÷ INFO ..•

DOM; ADDP, C/CI, C/F| 2, G/NE 2, S/C 2

AMLASH//

ROUTING

3

OCT 11 2307Z 62

PRIORITY

IN 38097.

PRITY DIR GIE MARR 2325

DESENSHIZEREY ROSE AMLASH

RE A MADRT25I (IN 30914)

8 PARI 2688• PARA W::

(IN: 48922)

AIRMAIL LETTER RECEIVED FROM AMLASH I1 OCT POSTMARKED 29

SEPT HAVANÁ. TRANSLATION SU TEXT FOLLOWS:

'"' A CONSPIRACY IN THE ENTIRE COUNTRY WAS DISCOVERED. IT WAS

DIRECTED BY AN EX ARMY MAN CALLED MARGOLLES. IWENTY PERSONS MAV::

BEEN EXECUTED, REPRESSIONS, DETENTIONS AND EXECUTIONS HAVE

JÁC TEA SED, MANY SOVIETS AFE SEEN EVERHERE DREVING TRUCKS

WITHOJT CUBAN PERSONNEL.

SOME SECTIONS IN THE AREA ARE CONTROLLED

AND INHABITED SOLELY BY-SOVIETS. THEY HAVE STRENGTHENED THE AIR

DEFENSE OF'TRE ENTIRE ISLAND WITH !OR MM GUNS, RADAR EQUIPMENT,

AND ZAUIFMINI OPERATED BY SOVIETS WHICH APPEAR TO BE ANTI-

AIRCRAFT COCKLIS, THERE ARE NUMEROUS LAUNCHES EQUIPPED WITH

ANTIAIRCRAFT ROCKETS.

THERE ARE SOME CAMPS WHERE THEY HAVE

TRAINED AUD ARE TRAINING LATIN AMERICANS (VENEZUELANS, COLUMBIANS,

HONDURANS, DOMINICANS, ETC. FOR GUERRILLA WARFARE YOU SHOULD

CALL THE ATTENTION OF MY FRIEND TO THE FACT THAT HIS ' INT MATE

SECRET

Exchated tron stemaic

Baciasslileatien

201-252234

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy No.

$6.=19a), Mas: 2, 1,9185

---

## Page 2

DATE

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

ROUTING

1A1

5

2

3

FROM &

ACRON A

INFO

PAGE 2

IN 38097

MADR 7325

6 GIRLS FRIEND IN MIAMI MADE A VERY INDISCRETE CALL TO HAVAVA".

AS WILL BE NOTED FROM SW

TEXT, AMLASWi FAILED IO FURVISi

PERIMEN DROP AS INSTRUCTED PARA & REF B.. THEREFORE, VE STILL

HAVE ONLY ONE VAY COMMO SYSTEM.

3. POUCHING COPIES OF ORIGINAL SU AND COVER TEXT. LEAVE

TO HAS DISCRETIQN WHETHER CONTENIS DESERVES INTEL DISSEM.

END OF MESSAGE

ÇIS COMMENT: NO LETTERS FROM AMLASM REVO TO DATE AT MADR DROT.

SECRET

routed tom arment

• Gangradar and

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

• Copy No.

---

