# 104-10422-10399

## Page 1

104-10422-10399

SENSE TOURCES AND

Mi

7.26A5

C4271232

MEMORANDUM FOR: NiS. 3. 100 RIDin

SUBJECTI

inonymous Telophono Calls to Unitsa States

Embaasy in Carborra, Australis, Relative to

Planned Ascassination oi Prosident Kenacay

1. I icior again to paragraph iro of your memoranduss,

antod 12. February 196%, rolative to dinscrainations to the Lecret

Servico mado by CIA.

2. On 24 November i,63, CIA recvivad from the Department

of the Navy a copy of a cable from tha Mavzl Astache in Canberra,

Australia (IN 67327, Top decres, later doingraced to Scerot),

reporting a telophone conversation the previona day with zn

anonymous individual woo had described himsolf 3o a Polish

chaufiour for the Soviot embacey in lane city. This incaviaunt,

while dscussing sevaral mattors of Intelligence intorest, touched

on tho possibility thas the Sovic: Govcrament had financed the

assaspination of Prealdent Kennody. Rciorence was made in this

cablo to tha receipi of a similar anonysnous telepaaza call on

15 Octobar 19620

3. Upon raceipt of this cabla from Navy CIA too% tae

following actica:

do Cabled to Canborra asking full dotaila of tiro

tolphono conversation di 23 Noverber and the call made

0z 15 October 1952. It should be noied tat Cli had not

previously knows of tao 1962 telepbose call.

SLENCT

troy and

WARMING NOTICE

SENSITIE SOURCES AND

10 00S NORTED

---

## Page 2

13-00000

-SE SITIVE SOURCES Mis

b. (he Gi Station ia Canberra, ea 27 November, famishad

111 avullabio intormitica on the 1952 telephone chil. Inapezra

thai source on that oscasion stated last "Iroa Curin Countries"

Pisaned to pay a hundred thousad doisis for the assassinado

of crovident Kennady.

c. On 17 Novembei, the Cis Canbazra Station) also furnishod

completa datail on tre anonymous telophone call of 29 Noveraber 1963.

do Ch 29 Noverbor, Cli dubarainated Sais inforadiat, za

sapalled by jia Camborra Station, to lue Whide House, Departreat

o Stato, und Fedoral Bursau di Intertigation, kitan copy to the

Eccret Service, & copy of inis dissemination in its exact test

Is anchoù to thie memorandar.

1o Tao CiA Sention La Canberra arranged for discuscion of the

calle with the Anatralion security sorvice. In the opirion of the

Auceralina authorities, the calloi waù a crsni.. In any cront, they

ars not able to liontily uny Polish erployae of the fortes aplaassy,

the automobile dereriboá by the caller au the ond ho drove, or tha

licenca plate number given by binso. No furthor infointioz on als

call has baon received.

availablo orlance would tend to show that

tho caller sao some type di crank. Thia conclusion, however, cannot

ba confirrase.

F. Pleado noie tact the suture of the information in this

remorandom and its attacamons requires the use of a senoitivity.

indicator.

020 Zaat Goes

Rinkard Belms

Deputy Director for Plana

WARNING NOTSE

SENGINE SOURCES AND

SENICT

A: 100 Culomatie

C70T1T.2Y 631

deniansten

---

## Page 3

13-00000

11D0N03S AND

MFT20S INVOLVE

CUT Tolutypo No. B5591, dutoú 29 Morearber 1963, Siled at 1117 hours.

to tao whito ilouse, Department af linto cd cderal Bureau of

Investigütion, with i copy to tao socrit srivice

1. Your attontion is called to a carice of andrymous telephoas

callo made to the orfice of the U.s. Naval attacho la Carbarra;

superalia, by a man claiming to have md inowledge about a soviet

plot to accussinito the late Ficsident Kennody. Cur hrst socord

of this mattor io a Naval Attache cable from mamborra sost on

24 November 1963*

2. It appasrs that the caller, who profesaco to bo the Poliah

chauficur of a Sovict Embassy car in Canberra, first phoned in

ovor a ycar ago, on 15 October 1962 repost 1902. he that time he

told a story about five Sorict submarines carrying 400 to 500 Soviet

solúlers on their may to Cuba. Cho purpose oi this troop movement,

ho said, was to support the Covemor of Mississippi. Me acided that

taore vas a plot to pay one hundrod tocuscai dollars to kill Prccident

Bennady. Echinú the plot, ho daid, were the "Irca Curtain Coustries,"

and "Communist men in inglind, fong Kong and probably some other

countzics."

3. Ca 23 November 1963 repeat 1962, tho day after the

ascaraination of trocidant Tonnody and ovar & yoar 2íta1 tho first

telophone call, a man boliovad so be the same person phonod the

Embacoy again and spoke to the assistant Naval Attache. The caller

referrod to his call a year bacis and stated ha had said that the ISSR

had put up 100, 000 dollars for the assausination of Erecident Kennedy.

1. Giving what he claimed were further ditzils about the

assaulnition, tho callor cold that about duo weeks bafore (which

would haro been in early November 1963) he was picsent wben un

Australian man, 35 to 40 years ole, and tall, was dispatchod by

the Sovicts to the United States currying a case about 15 to 10

centimeters long, 50 centimetero bigh, and 8.5 contiractora wido.

The namo Vaayl I'wo was usco in somo comection with this man.

Ho was put on a plane in sydnig and chilo the caller drove tho two

Soviet escorty back to Canberra, their shortwave radio la the car

was going contanely. Á shortwave radio was going in the Embasuy

Gecu

Excludes dron succat

circerating and

is dossitsation

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE SOURCES AND

METHICOS INVOIVED

---

## Page 4

13-00000

SENSITIVE COURTES AND

NETHERE 11O1VED

aloo whon tuoy arrived there. Crer thoco idios, one of there Soviets

irchunitiod zunboro and "polis." Thay romainca in toe ambassy, ani

Eunt rurning (apparently 33 November 1952), a rnesaage camo through

dad fores 50r0 trun in luscion Vodka and the Ragzians present said,

"wo hayo achieved what we wark."

5.. Tho caller then gave "intorraation" about the Sovict role

in ciating a U.S. Navy micles submazine and on soviet subversion in

Indonosia. lie would not Identily bimself, and when be described the

car he drives (as a nary blue 1952 Buick, license plate New South wales

ãoc 01za) ho sduod they citon changi plates, bara fifty cota in reserve,

and can chango them in fivo accous.

6. The caller addod some vague information about a somen

employes of the American Grabassy ho things works for tho Soviets.

The conversation concluded with the caller promising to wiite a letter

to the Naval Attacho at tho American Embassy.

7. Tho caller spoke good Inglish and his accunt and vaice did

no: change throughout the converoation, so is was assured that ha

muo zo disguising his voice.

S. Auctralian authoritlea working on this case considor tha

callor to bo a crank. T'hay state that Sovict officco in Australia

do not use anything but soviet chsuffeurs; they hava no sacord of

tizeir using a Poliah chausiour. Tboy are continuing thol investigation.

6Re0e 1

Excess tram salematic

C.a, 0005 271

WA210%

tiCo

SENSIT

: 60K0618 AND

MO:NOCS INVOLVED

1-2.01

---

