# 104-10217-10143

## Page 1

104-10217-10143

{MISAIA FDFa

BatTAL TOPEN D-3

РОТІРІСДОДОВНІВАВ

#1 3aр #6

4163/1325

15 DECESHER 1970

Onou

O 4O INDER

JIN' I CS FILE NO.

can:

- cluts

MICROEL YET

Usu no

DEC 1 & 19/0 :

DOC, MICRO, SER

PODP

note aund time dave

Г

SECRET 3P 15862223 132

FrederInEa

PRIORITY ME/STANT INFO

EYBAT TYFIC ANECRU ASIGH ANSOUR AJPUG

b4/c/P-019

REE: IE/STAI-9771 (IN-226225)

1. PAYMENT REF $2500 FEE FOR ASIPUG-I NEGOTIATION

AZTEORIZED. CHARGE ANDATA.

Z. REQUEST AISIGH-2 DETERMINE IF AMPUG-I NOTHER

HAS ALSO ESEY ADVISED BY AJECRU-I THAT $2500 EXPENSE

JOSHY SO COSE SEGOTIATIONS FOR APEG-I RELEASE REQUIRED

PNEDLITELE. IF SO, SUGGEST ANSIGI-2 ARRANGE TO DEPOSIT

HEY IN MYHTER'S BANK ACCOUNT SO SIE CAN PAY AMECRU-1

BY PERSONAE CHECK. IF SHE HAS NO BANK ACCOUNT ANSIGH-2

HAY GIVE HER CASE AND OBTAIN RECEIPT. MOTHER SHOULD BE

WARSED TO TELL AJECRU-I SHE BORROVED JONEY FROM FRIENDS

SHORLD ABOUT ATTENT TO PROBE FOR SOURCE OF FUNDS.

UNDER SO CERCUISTANCES IS SHE TO REVEAL AMSIGH-2'S OFFER

TO ASSIST IT RAISING RANSON MONEY FROM HIS PERSONAL SOURCES.

IN EVENT ANACRU-I HAS NOT DISCUSSED MATTER OF $2500 FEE

RIOI-OGIEE3

CONTINUED/

1108-342365

3261-325764

mashane

MICROFILMES ChrY

NEl 019/0.

DOC MICRO, SER.

CO EDINATINO OFFICERS

SECRET

TEPLODLCTION ST OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITED.

019:

-201-8759941

15 05р 171

A FSCEI

+ legin 19

---

## Page 2

ISSAGE +O0

MIAL COPA!

SECRET

OFTE

DATES

CAMLE BECACTANLAY DISSEMSNATION

от.

• BRANCH

OME MESALE

FLE, VI

(e is alicasion!

SECRET

Gin te and Bae fined

123L

Protocence

ONE ORECTOR 084872

TO

PAGE 2

WITH BOTHER, ANSIGH-2 SIOULD TELL ANECRU-1 HE WILL

CONTACT LOTHER AND TELL HER MONEY AUST BE AVAILABLE

BEFORE AMECEU-1 20 DECEMBER DEPARTURE DATE.

3. FORMER INDIRECT PASSAGE OF MONEY TO ALECRU-I

MADE HIS ATTEMPTS PINPOINT ACTUAL SOURCE OF FUNDS MORE •

DIFFICULT. IN VIEN HIS PRESENT ON THE SCENE CONTACTS - --

WITIL PRINCIPALS AND CLOSE RELATIONSHIP KITH AUSIGR-2 EXTREME

CAUTION SHICULD BE EXERCISED TO AVOID EXPOSURE OF JKLANCE

INTEREST IN AND FUNDING OF RANSOM CASES. BINIARIS SHOULD

STRESS TO AUSIGH-2 THE PRESENT HAZARDS INVOLVED IN

DISCUSSIONS WITH ANECRU-], AND HIS RESPOXSIBILITY FOR

PROTECTING JKLANCE FROM BEING COMPROMISED. UNDER NO

CIRCUMSTANCES® SHOULD AMSIGH-2 INDICATE TO AXECRU-I HE

INVOLVED IN PROCUREJENT OF FUNDS OR REVEAL ANY OTHER

INFORSIATION WHICH WOULD SUBSTANTIATE AJECRU-I'S ALREADY

STRONG CONVICTIOY THAT JKLANCE IS INVOLVED IN THE RANSOM

NEGOTIATIONS.

/CONTINUED/

ARLEASINO OFFICE

SECRET

REPAODUCTION BY OTHER TAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

AUTICAT

coming

---

## Page 3

ROUTING AND ON 14691825 - 8460 68

UNITE

DIT:

DATE?

CABLI & CRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

O NO INDES

• RETURATO -

• BRANCH

• FILE M Ca FILE NO.

CONf:

fe le a sificationi

SECRET

adate and thus 11 ledg

CITE DIRECTOR

084872

TO r

7

PAGE S

4. REQUEST ANSIGH-2 ALSO STRESS TO ALECRU-1

THAT ASCALL-I STATUS SHOULD BE FIRST PRIORITY FOR

DISCUSSIONS IN PARIS. NEARLY FOUR MONTIS HAVE NOW

ELAPSED SINCE RANSON PAID.

5. FOR

ANECRU-1 CONTACTED AMSOUR-1 SISTER

AND ARRANGED FOR MEETING IN WASHINGTON 20 DECEMBER TO

DISCUSS BROTHER'S CASE.

6. FILE: 201-275994, 201-061063, 201-312305, 201-325064.

END OF MESSAGE

E/IB/S Mr. Sorrels (Telecord)

shick.

C/WHD

W. Li

•WESLEY L.

LAYBOURNE

AC/WH/COG

RELEASING OFFICEM

COORDINATINO OFFICERS

SECRET

REPRODUCTION SY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMOTED.

AUTHORTICANO

COPT BA

---

