# 104-10408-10286

## Page 1

104-10408-10286

SORITOY

JER CATE MADR S21

An 43099)

KIYVAY PBRIMIN QUIDDS AHLASH

RIP (MADR S67

(934918)4

Lo DESPITE RIPIATED TELEPHONE CALLS TO QUNOPS-I MONE, OLIEN

AND LANGOSCH HAVE NOT SLIN ABLE TO TALK TO MIN UP TO ATTERMOON

3 APRIL. HI HAS NOT CALLED OLIEN ALTHOUDH MISSARIS LETT EO

REQUESTED. QUSPORT-S REPORT AS DETAILED DELON IBTABLISHES

THAT QUHOPS DID BET THI HISSAGIS., ACCORDINGLY ITHIS CLRAR THAT

QUHOPE IS AVOIDINO NUBARX CONTACT.

.!. BO TOLLOVINE I8 QUSPORT-I REPORI OF A APRIL ABETINO UHICH

HE ATTENDED WITH ANNHIP-I, QUHOPS, AHLÄSH-8 AND ABLASH-SI:

A. "AHLASH-& CRITICIZED XUBARK TOR "FOOLINE AROUND FOR:

YEARS VITHOUT HELPING AND TOR JEOPARDIZIMA AMLABN OPERATIOND

¡i SAID THAT IS OPERATION FAILS WALSH GROUP MUST BE PREPARED TO.:

C DENOUNCE, ADYOKE AS RISPONSIBLEA REGUSBTED SUHOPE AND AULABH-9,

BOTH RETURNING PERUMEN SOON, TO INFORM AHLASHES AND PRIENDO OY

FOREGOING& SUGGESTED AHWHIP-S SHOULD BRIAX CONTACT WITH KWANX.

B. AMKHIP-I EXPRESSED BASIN MORELMENT VITH ANLASH-S I I PROS

BUT ARGUED THAT HE ON RETURN POPRIM IN TEN DAYS BHOULD PRESENT SIAL

B-201-751606

151380

RI COPY EN

HE L

200 De

NAPAGDUCTION

APERTURE

---

## Page 2

13-00000

FUNWARUE

n0 30699/102

& ODYOGEI BASO THAT IT NAGNES IS KILLED THE VORIS WILL KARNA

Нот 8 10 00 FA ру.

THAS ÓNTOIS 18 REDOMOSTLE AND HESITINA FRANGNE WILL MINCE EDEN A

SCEN INSIGNITSCANT, REMINDED OFMENS THAT ME MAD ENPORTANT FRIENDS

INCLUDINO IDEN DU MARITO TO TIRRINATE CONTADI VITA FUDARK LEASE

TINAL DERANO DORO NOT MODUCI AMPSO CORGIETE RESPONSO

C. MILASROS ACCUNTO DDYONE dY ELOBOtI #ZZ DOORS TO. HIM

AND BEINA RESPONGIBLI FOR DENAL OF VIEN FON WIA TO GO TO PANTO

DOMINGO, AS ME VAS INTONED DY AMBISOY LO SAID THAT UNSAS ARUEP

ERTE FAVORABLI RESPONSE EN HOPALME AALABN-S WILL REPORT ALL FOREGOINE

TO ANLASH- I NND PRILNOBS ASPONTID NES ALASH-,. LO UE BOOD FERRE

VITH IDIN C AND EXALANTIO CODED MCISMISS ON HICROFILE TO SETABLEEN

HIS CLOST COMHICTSONN WITH KEEN È UNO HiS MRVICE, HINTIONtIA

IDEN D AS CONTACT WHO PURNIENED COLRO ATESÀGEE.

D. GUÑOPE TOLD OF OLiEN ENTORTE TO CONTACT WIN:

3. OUSPORT IS MEÉTINO SOME OR ALL ON ABOVE BROUP S APRIL:

PROVERY WILL TRY BIT AMUNIP REPORT, RESULTE MAY ESTABLION MISTICA

CUHOPS WILL MEET OLIEN OR LANBOSCH. PROSPECTS ARE NE VILL

CONTINUE TO AVOID ANY KUBARX CONTACT UNLESS ANLAEN-E ARD & INSTRUCE = *

HIM TO MAXI IT, QUITE PROBABLY AMLASH-S AND S WILL ACCOMPANY

OUNOPS TO ANY MEETING WHICH DOES MATERIALIZE.

---

## Page 3

13-00000

TENOR Of ABOVE

KHARAS DOES NOT

YECRIT

UNATO DEFESTAN

-SECRET

TURE CARD REPHODUCTI

10MS

---

