# 104-10186-10143

## Page 1

104-10186-10143

FORMATION REPORT INFORMATION RERORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

S-E-C-R-E-T

SO FOREIGN DISSE

COUNTRY Cuba

REPORT NO.

SUECT Ramiro VALDES Menendez

DATE DISTR.

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

*-Da Nat Reproduce

CS.C1-316/02304-65

7 June 1965

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

CS-311/06115-64

'fag- 1'

8 July 1964

DATE OF

INFO

1964

PLACE 4

Washington, D.

DATE ACQ. (April

1965)

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INPORMATION, SOLACE GRADINGS ARE DEVINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE:

A former Cuban IS officer tho served with thr Cubar. Int-lligerce

Service until April 1964.

Hendquarters Comments

The following refort.is one of a series containing peraonality

information provided by the source and includes supplemental

information from the records of this Agency.

It is requested that the addressees take no action or any of

the individuals mentioned in the persorallty reports without

first checking with this Agency.

1.

2.

house on eth Avened between denised on street, the nees

rouse on 9th Avenue between G6th and 68th Street.

only a short distance from the Departamento de Laberacter

Nacional (National Liberation Department • LA) located or 7th

Avenue in the Miramar district of llavana.,

VALDES was married to one Irina VALDES; howiver. semitin- grier

to April 1964, they were divorced.

4/P/

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

STAN?

I DIA

KEPCISCLANT

TARAY

CISCSO #

Nona: Field distribution indensood by '=*.)

NAVY

I&Y'S

PAIR

INSA

1 OCR

FB!

N

INFORMATION REPORT INFORMATION REPORT

THE•S R

Mun

LX-2429

RE

TELLADRI

13U

15=

J7156

"1:l9:-1'

*F.

0501-316:0230-1-

*INE

RID AN

"at"

CS

¡COORDINATING

TOOLS WHI

8

111, 981!10: CIA. RID 1

L11S0N

3

---

