# 104-10107-10178

## Page 1

104-10107-10178

CLASSIFIED

2NAl

ILY

DI CORR

ROUTING AND RECORD HEST

CURJECT: (Oplional)

LETTER OF INDEMNITY FORC

>29

FROM:

EXTENSION

William F. Donnelly

Acting Chief, Division D

942.7

TO: (Oficer designation, reon rumlui, "re

building)

DATE

RiCEIVED

FORT/ARDED

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

1.

OGC

2.

ORỐ SUBJ: LIAISON-IVON-COVERNMENTAL

3.

4.

5.

6.

AC/DIVD

7.

8.

9.

10.

TIAL

SE0XE1

NO. DIV/D-511/76

DAIE 1.7 November 1976

CoMMeNts (rumüer cach comment la slior froni stam

1o villosn.

Drow o line across columa after sort commenil

BY HIND

x6967

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

11.

13.

14.

15.

TORM

3-52

010 ustionious

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

3K

WaCLASS1271D

---

## Page 2

14-00000

DIV/D-511/76

17 November 1970

MEMORANDUM FOR: Office of General Counsel

FROM

SUBJECT

: William F. Donnelly

Acting Chief, Division D

:

Letter of Indemnity for

2.9

1.

letters.

We would appreciate your signing the attached

1l 55

2

ir

agreed to conduct certain research and development work

on behalf of an Agency proprietary provided this

guarantees all agreements entered into

Agency

the proprietary.

The attached letters will serve this

purpose.

The unclassified letter will be for Mr.

retention. The

classified letter will be shown

• for his

infornation and written acknowledgnent and then returned

to Agency files.

William E. Donnelly

Attachments:

As Stated

4/pV

......

E2 TIPDET

CI. BY 014246

..ie.e.

---

## Page 3

14-00000

TOP SEGRET

29 November 1976

Dear Mr

≥4

This letter acknowledoes thatl

the United States Government.

nis Agency, as the true party

in interest. stands

behind all official arreements

This classified letter will be retained in the

files of this Agency for safekeeping, but will be

available to you or your authorized

representatives

at any reasonable time.

The United States Government

appreciates your cooperation in this matter relative to

the

national security.

Sincerely,

Others 9, Copsie

Anthony A. Lapham

General Counsel

Acknowledged

06

162 629020

---

## Page 4

14-00000

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20505

29 November 1976

06

720N6

Dear Mr

four company may enter into contractual agreenents

involving this Agency.

A classified letter of even

date herewith describes arrangements relating to these

agreements and is held in

• the files of this Agency for

safekeeping and has been acknowledged by you,

classified letter is available for your inspection or

any

inspection of a representative of your company

reasonable time,

This Agency appreciates your cooperation in this

matter relative to the national security.

Sincerely,'

Anthony A. Lapham

General Counsel

MER!

- 3*

1,75-1310

(3;

THINNE)

---

