# 104-10175-10110

## Page 1

104-10175-10110

DISPATCH

Chief of Stadon

:D=56A: 5064

SECRET

PROCESSING ACTION

MARZID FOR IVEXAG

16/0.

DAZY QUALFIEO DESE

Chief, Western Hemispbere Division

ACTON RIGUES - IRRINCES

Beference:

9282 04

1. In accordance with a polley decision to keep BKHERALD contact

with U.3. business representatives discreet, a amall luncheon was held.

oXin lieu of the cusiomary formal briefiags in lse Headquarters butlding.

KUACETONE -4. IDENTITY L, Darid C. MCBY and Floyd N. AIMONET

atterded the huncheon which was characterized by cordiality and candor.

O KDACETONE -I waited until the conclusion of the meeting to raise his

current favorite subjact, that of countertug the leftist propaganda

contained in SEMPRE. Fortunaiely, HIGBY w98 screwarned ando

effectively turned arond the thrust of the elfort upon/KIACETONE-l's

shockders, without offending him.

• IDENTITY Impressed RIGBY with

insand decord.

IDENTTYY 2 to "Jo things" on our behalf but was cravinced by HIGBY

that the best way to aproaci the problem was through the compartmented

uns of individual wembers, rather than through IDENTITY & 13 an

organization.

2. Discuesions were held concerning Mexican affairs as well aa

Hemisphere trends. In the former category, our guests were most

disturbed about the nationalization process in hierico and enumerated

(continued)

Attachment:

DENTITIES (USC)

Dietpibuti on:

W/Att. USC)

latt

COS MENN 0

could lick

WALLI

comes

DESPATCH SYMAN AND MEANGER

27

10014943

ОДЕКА: CA

SECRET

DE/WH/1

C9I41 SYMORE

CHiE

RECORD COPY

DAT

1 1 MAY 1973

MOS FRE HUSBAGE

201-03089933

CRICINATiNG

5/8/73

OFFNER I MAME

102191

LAt.

9354

Distribution:

1 - WH/1/CHRONO

1 - 201-2302892-

723

AB K

1AJ

53°

USE PRENLENEIETUA

67 194

22S3T

NORN C. MUrIAY

DISPATCH

"IRs

---

## Page 2

!

3X652

CONTINUATIÓN OF.

• • DISPATCH

CLISSIFICATION

SECRET

DISPATCH SYMOOL AND NUMBER

HMM 97-19453.

the latest cases with some alarm. LXDACETONE-1 repeated bis prediction

that President ECHEVERRIA would eflectively nattonalize most private

investment In Mexico before the end of his term.

3. The meeting was judged effective and afforded HIGBY the

opportunity to lay the ground work for his future relations with

WENTITY & members, while satelying the gueats' need for reassurances

that our goals were parallel.

They appeared happy with the conversations

despite the informality.

Floyd N. AlbSONET

23

2011030949

FORM

0-64

Lact

538

USE PREVIOUS EDITION.

CLA SINSCATION

ARCRET

CONTINUED

3/Rs

---

## Page 3

14-00000

22

UNDER SEPARATE COVER ATTACHMENT TO: ENAW, 19453

IDENTITY AL!

IDENTITY 42

Bail

27

sK Gett: to 4519453

SECRET

RECORD COPY

201-030999

5RS

---

