py

13 November 1962

MEMORANDUM FOR THE REQORD:

SUBJECT: Meeting wit -1 (Telephone N.¥.C. JU 6-4622)

DATE AND PLACE: 180041930 Yours, 5 November 1962, Hotel Taft

PRESENT: Subject an (alias Breitheim)

Ph. . insfaps necting was set on to determine whether
subject Willd bens fikely candidate to fi11 a temporary slot
Rio)or (SAGOJas a PA working more or less exclusively
etrate the local Cuban diplomatic installation.
vas to be out of town for an indefinite period,
T was deta © make the above determination. The meeting
was set by phone on the above date.

OPERATIONAL:

2. The main point of the meeting was settled quickly.
Subject indicated that he would be willing to take a three or
four month trip to Latin America for us, and to perform what-
ever operational tasks ve felt he would assign to him. The
only qualification: This trip could not be taken until after
the first of the year. Subject stated that though the jewelry
business is presently in its pre holiday doldrums, thia situa-
tion would change tn about ten daysto one of intense activity.
He simply could not afford to take extensive time out at tlils
juncture. I am sre Subject was giving a straight line, and
thus made no attempt to pressure him, particularly since wo
had no pressing specifics to put him to work against. IT &sked
whether he knew of any Cubans in the Capit; is of L.A. who

might be useful for our sork2BHe cane up With the nase of th
foreer manager of the filabana Mil too) POW 1920,)08
pronently manager of the Carrera Wilton, Saco] gsubject
thin man wan smart, dedicated to anti-Comaunina,
averred an ta how he Crouse pout be happy toa coop-
erate, and would gertaialy know much About the deingx of moat

ae
Cuban tn (Saco) kare: Upon retura to Headquart earned
from Maroliua that Gace already in touch eth lout

nut for Cuban ope, (6

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce


7PV

-2-

3. Subject said that he is to make a four day trip to
Columbia within the coming fortnight and would be happy to
tackle any reasonable task we might ask of him, He agreed

uld be a simple matter for him to introduce AIS to
| I advised that ve might want him to aid us in some
‘such fon, but that I could think of mothing at the moment.
I asked him to give a ring as soon as his travel plans were firm.

4.8 h ps business: I asked Subject to go

over th businegs again,and when he was
through W. story, requested that he’ phone the Cuban
Embassy in Ottawa to find out i were still there.

We worked out a couple of routines to cover all eventualities
we could. think of, that its, what

of the office, and so forth. f ere to be there,
Subject was to arrange a meeting for a day some 10
days hence. NOTE: Subject phone on 6 November. hat
he had caller per arrangement and was told that nad
left Ottawa for Havana in June and would probably not be 06

returning.

COMMUNICATIONS:

THOMPSON and to phone me alias BREITHEIM on 737-1 .
ee

TFW/FE

e@ man were out
