# 104-10005-10125

## Page 1

1104-10005-101251

SECRET

(WHEN FILLED IN) •

MFI

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

INSTRUCTIONS

PRIOR TO FILING

1. Fill in Sect. 2. on back. Detach back flap

and forward to RID

2. Destroy front cover sheet, unless it records

significant action taken or comments requir-

ing preservation.

FROM:

TO: ACTION BRANCH

If file no. and title shown are not proper,

insert proper file no. below and forward

document to RID/AN.

PROPER FILE NO.

RIOT

e/WE

TO: ALL ADDRESSEES

FILL IN SECTION 1 ON BACK. IF APPROPRIATE

COMMENTS

ROOM

NO

DATE

RECEIVED

FORWARDED

OFFICER'S

iNiTiALS

Ellin

30 belie

Shown

copy

ew

2r, T 30

30

ст.

51/RA Hastenan

- 30910р

P

10.

RID/AN

11.

RID/MIS

12.

CI/RA

13.

2 Oct 64

WFA

_WAS RYBAT A

RECLASSIRTNU

14.

RI/ AN

RI/MIS

CI/RA

15.

16.

17.

'RACI

REQUES®

DATE MICROFILMED

1-63

610a

USE

PREVIOUS

EDITIONS

вии

Document Number

852-891

JUL 1976

for FOlA Review on

7408:

reply to request to rack wou

an allegation ne fresnee

AUBATL

HAND

CARRY

RECORDS OFFICER STANT

The followine aotion 18

authorised?

29021

Signed:

R.0. #1 - Unit.

Note:

FILE TITLE

01/ RYA

•If destruction,

cite

reasons

and

coordinate

If apponriato.

FILE NUMBER (PRIMARY CODE)

201-289248

DOCUMENT DATE

DOCUMENT NUMBER

18

OSSA

13321

SECRET

(40)

4475

---

## Page 2

13-00000

IVE

DISPATCH

Chief, WE

CLASSIFICATION

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NO.

SECRET/MA

- OSSA13321

• HEADQUARTERS FILE NO.

TO

INFO

FROM

SUBJECT

ACTION REQUIRED

REFERENCE(S)

Acting Chief of Station,

GPFLOOR /TIPSTAFF

O Transmittal of Report

For Your Information

-5244

1

DATE

18 September 1964

RE: "43-3" - (CHECK "*" ONE)

MARKED FOR INDEXING

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

INDEXING CAN BE JUDGED

BY QUAWFIED HQ. DESK ONLY

Forwarded herewith is the TIPSIAFF report promised

in Reference.

of Oliver I. JACONNEY

Attachments

TIPSTAFF Report

18 September 1964

Distributions

3 - NS v/att

]w/att

Document Number 852-891

for FOlA Review onl

JUL 1976

AS SORY

1 ATT.

1037 53

201-289248

PAGE NO

USE PREVIOUS EDITION.

REPLACES FORMS

51-28.

51-28A AND 51-29

WHICH ARE OBSOLETE.

---

## Page 3

13-00000

→ WECRET/RYBAT

22259

ATTACHVENT

OSSA-13321

18

September 64

Memo on RIDDERSIRALE

120206

Riddersträle was questioned on September 9th 1964 and

gavethe following information.

He has never visited countries outside Europe and the

statement attributed to him that during a period of seven

years he should have lived in Cuba 1s not true.

He bellever

that somebody who wanted to harm him had ascribed these

words to him.

Neither is it true that he has visited llaiti.

He admitted that on several occasions he has discussed

politios and in the course of these discussions he has

spoken of Swedish communism as well as of the Fidel Castro

government in Cuba, and he did not deny that he had sooken

of revolutions in Venezuela and Mexico supported by Castro.

He pointed out, however, that what he had said in this

respect was only what could be found in Swedish newspapers.

Somebody who had listened to him might have misunderstood

him.

When questioned whether he had used the expression: "I

tell you, Kennedy will probably be shot", he denied that.

He could not explain such an expression since he could not

remember having said anything like it. He knew nothing

whatever beforehand about the murder of the President.

Septenber 15th 1964

S86

ATT. I To:

055A -13321

CS COPY

201-299248

---

