# 104-10219-10110

## Page 1

104-10219-10110]

antone dear stat%

SEGRET

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

WASHINGTON, D.G. 20505

25 JAN 1968

MMORANDUN YOR!

SUBUBCT

Director

Hatlonal Becurity. Agency

& VIlLION E. MAITIN

On 1S January 1960 tale Asency recedred the

LOLLO: AforeAtion fron our liaison contact 1a the

D. ACCOrAIDS PO BUCKARY, MARTIN MIsheD tO 10e: 118

parento for cosprestonato reasons and wants to know 11 de

would be adultted to Canada mithout fear of extradition to

the Unltod Stateo 11 he vero to arranzo a rondez-your mita

h1s paronts da Vancouver.

te do not know phother MANTIN

still has a United States passport or rethor be has becone

3 soviet citizen.

In any event MARTIN considers binsel!

sandalesible to the Unlted Statoo.

BUCKLIT BOt MARTIN at the apartsent or

Hoard RAUSCH, the Moscow correspondent for Mira-Dill

Publications.

In additon MARTIN later telerboad BUCKET

to ladicate his Interest in finding out whether or not be

could come to canada.

EUCKLEY assumes, quite rightly !

would think, that the manner 1a obica LARTIN bad made ble

roquent indicates that big Russian nocto are arare of al

Interest In setting out of the Sovlet Union to see his parente.

We have Inforned our limbanny that 18 should

fate no action to encourage DOCILSY OF MARTIN to belleve that

• visa could be grantod li MATIN vero to make formal

appliention.

Since, sowever, INiTIN'E saterest la coming to

Canade d8 already in a newspaperman'o bands, ve cannot rule

Such a story sould probably load to the neod for

an expression of the Canadian Goverment's attitude.

anklas roconnonostions on the kind of response that might be

nade in the event that a question 18 put to my Minister, 1t

SEC'ET

51G-356

sati

---

## Page 2

14-00000

....

SECRET

so lar as the Daltod States la concernod.

18, for example,

pour coverment could not take legal action, the Canadian

anthoritsea vould be la a position 11 tbia matter came to

publle attention to say that they tore not avare of any

barrder provonting MAATI! Iron seeing his parente in the United

states.

I abould be nout grateful 11 through your channel.

no could do providod intoraally olta an ladication of

MATIn's otatus 10 las In the Unlted States.

BUCKLEY's only other commont on MARTIN sas that

Do didn't really koon shat to sake of MArtIN.

Boenod outapoken in dealinz with the shortcomings of 1180

In the Soviet Unlos.

On the otbor band ho apore with a

slight stanner and seened nervous.

BOCKLAY 'a vien 102 that

18 1e vorth 1s that KAITIN Is not Interested In setting late

trouble ulth the russians of doing anything shich they might

consider underhanded.

I should eaphasize that no nember of

the Canadian Inbassy lns had any droct contact olth diRTIN.

EASIE

On 18 January 1068 the Fedoral Bureau of Investigation

of the foregolms informally, In order to explore

the possiblilty of providiag an Indication of Subject'a

status ln lat, no requestod 1a paragrapa l. d. abovo.

3. This Agony uns adulaed by the Department of State

on 19 JAnuary that Subject's parente hod writton to the

Departnoat adulaing that subject would Ilie to vialt hia

parente,

that ho was plannios a vialt to Canada, and

Ingulring what Bubject's legal position would be i1 be old

Indeed vialt.

me Department InJicated that at planned te

Inqulre that the D. 5. Embassy in Hoscow knew of Bubjock®e

ravol plans, Includias & check with the Canadian fabassy to

Subject had applied for a vias.

The Departeent

ms apprised of the informal Canadian Inquiry as to Subject's

status, but indicated that lt would rofrald fron makist ay

reference to thie Inquiry 1a seoslog Inormation from the

U. B. Enbassy In Hosco».

?. Our representativo taL

was apprised of the

developments cited in paragraph? above,

and recuested to

pass then on lo the liaion contact, on 19 January 1908.

FOR THE DEPUTY DIRECTOR FOR PLANS:

Signed: Inses R. Ilunt

JAMES ANGLETON

CBCI 316/00326-68

ce:

Department of State

Federal Bureau of Investigation

SEGRFT

!

==.2

---

## Page 3

14-00000

SEENET

I/DC/CANADA: Jillowley:es - 29 January

• 1968

Based on: 0COA-12663 12 Jamary 1968

Distrlbutton:

OrtE. & 1 - Addressee •

- C/CI

1.

HID/ C33

atb

1

E/DC/ Canada

- State

1 - FBI

SEGNS

---

