104-10178-10060

ces

2 A POSAOM Carne Kc
wwep SUUE ‘ CONrIvINTAL
. . Oi hen Pubs oe

: ad

CONFIDENTIAL ~ CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
Intelligence Information Cable

TOCSDE-315/02243-65

COUNTRY CUBA AHEXRGO.
parece 15-28 JUNE 1965 : DISTR «1 JULY 1965
INFO, : :

PLAN OF THE CUBAN REPRESENTATION IN EXILE

(RECE) TO BLOW UP A CUBAN OR SOVIET VESSEL

IN VERACRUZ, MEXICO
PLACE &
DATE ACQ. UNITED STATES, MIAMI (28-29 J JUNE 1965) RF N pes7i
souncs + f : . «FELD REPORTNO,- TEG-7310
‘AND : : -.

Me

peur! Oy
vaegain pre?
po

°

1. FIELD COMMENT: . IT WAS REPORTED IN TOCSDB~315/d2198-65,
DATED 18 JUNE 1965 THAT JORGE MAS CANOSA, AN OFFICIAL OF RECE,
HAD PROPOSED TO A DEMOLITIONS EXPERT THAT HE TRAVEL TO SPAIN,
MEXICO, AND OTHER LATIN AMERICAN COUNTRIES AT THE EXPENSE OF
RECE AND PLACE BOMBS IN COMMUNIST INSTALLATIONS IN THOSE COUNTRIES.
2. SOURCE FOR PARAS.3 = 5: A CUSAN REFUGEE WHO HAS MANY
CONTACTS AMONG CUBAN EXILE ACTIVISTS, PREVIOUS REPORTING FROM THE

REFUGEE HAS PROVED TO BE FAIRLY. RELIASLE,
3. ON 15 UUNE 1965. JORGE MAS CANOSA OF THE CUBAN REPROSCNTA-

TION IN EXILE (REPRESENTAC ION CUBANA EN EL EXILIO, RECE) SAID THAT

Tis material conting information aftecing the Nationst Defense of the United Satee withia the evcaning of the Espionay
Laws, Tale | ‘ USC. Sec, 793 and TH, the tranumiision of revsltion of which la any manccr to aa ueaudonand person "
? tecuans nom eam

CONFIDENTIAL brea oblate ateureaed (seer ind

STATENR, a ARMYIAGS NAVY AR NSA mC XM usa Oc! ONE OCR OFR CO TBI INS

COAST GUARD

CIA/NMCC Custoxs BORDER PATROL
cence ata

. “
yi /


CONTROLLED DISSF ~ : : re ts
i ae 53

CONFIDENTIAL 7 bay rrr PAGE <

: RECE HAD BEEN APPROACHED BY CARABALLO (FNU) FOR FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE
: FOR AN OPERATION INVOLVING THE GLOWING UP OF A SOVIET OR CUBAN
, ‘VESSEL IN VERACRUZ, MEXICO, CARABALLO'SAID THAT HE HAD ALL THE
' CONTACTS NECESSARY TO ACCOMPLISH ANY DEMOLITION OPERATION IN
MEXICO AND THAT HE COULO 00 THE JOB IN VERACRUZ FOR $3,010.
CARABALLO WAS ToLo THAT RECE MIGHT USE HIM AND HIS CONTACTS,
_ BUT THAT SOMEONE ELSE WOULD BE SENT TO NEXICO WITH HIM TO PLACE THE
" DEMOLITIONS ABOARD THE VESSEL.
Wi, “AS OF 28 JUNE, MAS CANOSA HAD IN HIS POSSESSION 125 POUNDS
OF PENTOLITE, WHICH HAD BEEN PURCHASED AT $3 PER POUND FROM JOSE
PEREZ ALAMA, "<2, AND HE HAD APPROACHED RAMON ESCARDA
RUBIO AND ANOTHER’ CUBAN, FROGMEN ‘1 S's" ACQUAINTED WITH DEMOLITION
GEAR, TO PLACE THE CHARGES ON THE-VESSEL. THE PLAN CALLS FOR A
THREE SMALL CHARGES TO BE PLACED CLOSE TO THE MIDSHIPS CENTERLINE f
; OF THE’ UNDERWATER HULL. IF THE CHARGES GO OFF AS PLAINED, A
:  1M-FOOT HOLE WILL BE BLOWN IN THE SHIP*S BOTTOM, IT 1S HOPED
|< ° THAT THES PROCEDURE WILL CAUSE LITTLE OR NO HARM TO THE sHfiP+s

i
H
1
i

CREW.
5. AS OF 28 JUNE, RECE WAS ATTEMPTING TO PROCURE A SHIPPING

SCHEDULE AND MAS CANOSA WAS_IN TEXAS WORKING OUT DETAILS REGARDING
hs i iat ON 5

6. SOURCE FOR PARA. 7: A CUBAN REFUGEE WHO IS ASSOCIATED

WITH ACTIVISTS IN THE MIAMI AREA, SOURCE 1S REGARDED AS RELIABLE,

AND PREVIGUS REPORTING FROM HIM HAS PROVED TO BE ACCURATE.
CONFIDENTIAL

CONTROLLED DISSEM



+ CONTROLLED, DISSEN

Te ON 25 JUNE, LUIS POSADA, CARRILES SAID THAT HE HAD RECEIVED

$5.08 FROM MAS CANOSA OF RECE TO COVER THE EXPENSES OF A CCMOLITION
OPERATION IN MEXICO, POSADA SAID THAT HE WAS PLANNING TO PLACE
LIMPET MINES ON ELTHER A CUBAN OR SOVIET VESSEL IN THE HARBOR OF °
_ VERACRUZ, MEXICO, AND THAT HE HAD 198 POUNDS OF C4 EXPLOSIVES
“AND SOME DETONATORS, POSADA SAID THAT HE WAS PREPARING CERTAIN
PAPERS TO SHOW THAT HE 1S A PUERTO RICAN AND EXPRESSED HOPE THAT
SUCH DOCUMENTATION WOULD ENABLE HIM TO OBTAIN A VISA FOR ENTRY
INTO Mexico,

8, FIELD DISSEM: CINCLANT, CINCSO, COMMWESTFOR, MIAMI REPS
oF state, FBI, CUSTOMS, BORDER PATROL, 1&NS, AND USCC, (ALSO SENT
[Parana CITY|ANO MEXICO CITYS),

IL-7

ENO OF MESSAGE ©

CONTROLLED DISSEM

‘TDCS DB- PAGE 3

CONFIDENTIAL 315/02243-68

be
