104-10192-10183}
T
i

ay

Stoner

& April 1960

MENCRANDUN SOR THE RECORD
SUBJECT: Transcript of Recorded, Summary of AMPALM Neetings

1, Tals nesorandun sumsrizes d{scussions whch hare tskep place fron 27 March
through 30 March between Mr. Schards,+ Mr. Foster, Meher.) Mr. Thompson* and
Mr, Falzer.> During this period, we have discussed a nurver o* topics under the
following headings: General; Political; Propaganda; Action and Innediate Plans,

General

2. It is agreed, first, that any possitility of reaching a peaceful agreement
on the creblem confrenting us in Cuba ie no longer present and thit Pidel has passed
the point of no return, Second, proapt action is desirable because the situation

is growing worse every day, and the solution to tke probles beccmes more difficult
Aa it te allowed to deteriorate. Third, this problem is not Limited to Cuba
alone tut ts international in scope.

Political

3, It bas been agreed first that a name, a platform ard a symtol should be
chosen at the earliest oprortunity, It haa also been agreed that these gentlenen
will moet in Jacksonville oa the 3rd and Ath of April with representatives of other

groups who have similar oninions of the situation and whe wish to coordinate their
actions, It will be at the Jacksonville mooting, and if necessary at later meetings
in Havens, that decisions will be taken on the name, platform and symbol for the
Joint organisation, which ve sill meanwhile refer to as the Junta,

It is agreed th-t the srirlt of the Caracas Pact stould be revived wherever
possible in the official preaouncemonts of the Junta. dr, Bévards, Mr. Poster and
Me, Rivers are preparing their an platform of polities), sccisl and economic nea-
sures wiich they will take with them to the meeting and w’ich they will provide to
us. at the forthcoming meet‘ng, nares of recple to be crenty identified as repre=
sentatives of the Junta will be decided, At the Jacksonville meeting these gentle-
men will tear in mind the idea that they wisn to make it possible for others who

SECRET



_ good satirical film. This fila might

. ee lee oma]

& Apriy 1960

carmot attend the meeting to exprese their adherence to the principles expresced
there at a later.dste, Therefore, they will rot attempt to i-pose 3 single narrow
system of political, economic or sociel thoucht, but rather vill emphasise the need
for a return to constitutional government under which all perties have the right.
to express ‘their orn opinions and the people have a democratic choice.

opaganda - ok

5, We plan'to employ preas, radio, films, intrusion and other techniques:

to undermi:¢ and discredit the government and to prepare the people for later action.

This phase will have as one of itaobjectives the dissemin-tion of the truth to

people who have been misled by the present regime. The nanes of specialists in

radio work have been provided, and the decision will be mie later as to which of
30 will be.used in which place. Three mn who have been selected for this

radio work are Juan PALLI, Antonio ALCNSO Avila, Miguel SUARES Fernandes and

Angel Felix YeERGO. Other names are on @ ist which has been provided.

6. Discussion was held concerning the technique of having some material pre-
pared in Havana and-sent outside for broadcaats back into the country. It was.
felt that this technique, would permit timely exploitation of developments inside

the country, Another suggestion involves staging incidents which would arouse *
Castro, filming his impassioned reaction on TV or in public arpearances and then,

by careful editing, to emphasizing geotures and facial expressions te produce a _—
30 employ 8 musics] background carefully
f heaping on additions) ridicule.

sychronized with Castro's movements as 6 wey 0!

7. Wo also discussed ways of printing material outside of Cuba for later. dis~
tribution inside the country or in other target areas. One specific example was a
pamphlet on the denial of hunan rights ig Cuba today, which it is hoped can be
prepared in time for distribution at the forthcoming ‘conference on Freedom and,
Democracy in Caracas. Another technique in connection with radio brosdessts involves
the use of emall-pocket recorders. These would be carried on the rersons of repre-
sentatives of the group for surreptitious recordings of casual conversations which,
after editing, could’be raplayed over the air to give whstever inpression which we
wish to create, Still another techniaue involves the use of indestructible recorder-
sreaker ecuipment which cen be left in pu lle places with pre-recorded messsces.
Another uses tape ‘recorders and loud spevkers placed in hotels overlocking public

aasenbly areas where, after an appropriate period of blank tare, a message can be
broadcast, to. sow confusion and consternation among the authorities, Another
propay-nda teetnique which might be employed would be wall resters with pictures
of Pidel earing the beerd made of sone autstence which dissol) readily in the
rain and which would leeve a rather ridicuious-looking, beardless figure following

a rain,

Action

@. After a lengthy discussion of tris cuvstion, it ws decided that preeiee
means of action should be determined following meetings with other leaders and

SECRET



& April 1960
Page 3

meetings with exerts in this field. It ws also agreed that, veanwhile, training

of qualified peonle should proceed. -In thie connection, it ms agreed that an
Miami area would be the first sep. For this @

team of three or four people headed by Manuel Artime has been cosignated, It is
expected that on the 3ist of March these gentlemen will meet vith him in New York
and will explain to hin his duties which will be the following: i

a. He will be instructed to. make contact with certain selected people who |
are. already in this country, -He will base his cortscts on clearances
which are received through @ representative of Hr. Frank Bender, who
attended severa: . eee

b. After Artime has made hie initial assessment of these candidates and
has obtained their agreonent to participate, he will send oth BT
well-known membre of the team to eacort these people into the assessment:
Areas where they will undergo medical, intelligence and psychiatrie

examination, A list. of 16 candidates who are resdy at the moaent and
most of whom are elready available inthis country has been submitted.
fis expected that an additional number, bringing the total to somewhere
between 30 and 100 enn be located following the return of these gentlemen
to their homes, It has also been agreed that a list of 20 members of
the old aray who are now in the Miami area, will te carefully screened
and cheoked by these gentlemen on their return and that those on whom
no derogatory information is available will be the subjects of Artime's

presssesszent,

9. The initial cadre of instructors. will emerge from the group of 20 and the
group of. 16, Those who are chosen liter will be instructed in turn by the initial
cadre at a location to be chosen outside of this country. The question of special
ists was also taken up. In the field of physicians, including rs chistriste,
there are a probable ten or more who can be recruited and brought out at such tine
‘as the need for then arises. There are eight or more specialists in small boat
operations who would be value in exfiltration operations. There are. approxi-~
mately five cuilified pilot: There sre. vife or more radio comunieators. This
WALL ba the subject of a later comment. - The group also has access to several
boats capable of travolling out as far ag the territorial limits of tl or twelve
miles, and probably even fucther, There are f-ur or more such boats available,”

In this connection the quastion of radio beacons and their use in exfiltration
Operations wis also discussed. It was pointed out that eguirment my soon be
available which can be carried by small eraft and which will make  rendesvous at

sea more simple and nore secure,

It

Immediate Plans

10. A schedile was drawn up to show the cov-ments of Mr, Edwards, Mr. Rivers
and Mr. Foster during the week or so, Following are the activities wiich each

expect:

Smokey


Shp

mR/o1

FOR reg PN ne tt

4 April 1960
Frage 4

On 31 March, Mr. Foster will go to New York where he will meet with the
others end Habel ‘Artine who's expected to return from Hextem'or the
same date,. The necting will be held at the Statler Hotel. On the first
and second of Arril, Kr. Poster will be in New Yor. On the third,
11 ‘proceed to Jacksonville, on the fourth he will: meet there. with

representatives of other ety (n the fifth, ho will return to

ObHevana and there he will talk to|Herwano LAZ jconcerning the possibility

vG that (Hermano Li:
a6 (He:

b

ce

da,

jean come to this country for approximit ly four weeke
of specialized tPaining in communications, It 4s contemplated that if
TAZA} ie available for this, then he on lis return to Havana
Will be-in-a position to pasa his training along to a group of other
people. This: would-be .extreely imnortant in the event that relations
were tobe broken. Another assignaent of Mr. Foster will be to carry
with him to certain people ‘in Havena the decisions reached at the ,
Jacksonville meeting. This {s assuming thit certain members whose
prasence is desired will bu unable to attend the Jacksonville meetings
and will therefore have to be contacted by Mr, Foster on his return.
Another task which has-teen given him is to check out the list of twenty
mazes of candidates in the Miami ares which came from snother source,

Mr. Rivers will accompany. the other meabers of the -roup to New York
on the 31st. He will go Wdth then to Jacksonville on the third, he will
go to Teapa and Kiaai on the Sth and 7th and will probably return to

Havana on the eighth.

Mr. Edwards will go to New York on the 3lst with the other two, He will

meet there with Artize on the 3lst and on the first, On the second, he
will .go to Boston to speak with Mr. fiosrtques Bezoy}concerning poasibleo 6
training of the latter in communications work, Mr. Charles Barker will
meet him there and will speak directly to Mr. Rodriquez Bezos}if the 06
possibility looks good. Mr, Edwards will proceed then to Jacksonville on
the third for talks there and will return to Havana at some later date,

Concerning Mr. Artime, his instructions will bée to return to Miami after
the New York meetings and awalt contact from a representative of Mr. Carl
Bender. He will be instructed in more detail there on how to proceed with
the reception and assessment of people chosen for the action phase, ‘these
detailed instructions will come from the renrasentative of Mr, Bender,
Before he leaves New York or. in the early afternoon of the jlst of March,
Mr. Artime will also make contact with Mr. Alberto Roque at the Commodore
Hotel to discuss collaboration of Roque with the group, Hr. Artime has
been chosen.for this.work since he will not be returning to Havana and
the cuestion of exposure is not critical here,

ao

DC/H/
