io4-0163-(0046

»)

i FE
_.CLASSIFIED MESSAGE w - wos [PE i/ it

ROUTING

FROM: UNWAVE

Action, We : .
4 INFO. OCI, D/DC1, DOP, ADDP, SOD 4, DO/H, CA 2, CA/PEG, CA/PROB,-calo 4,
: CL, CI/OPS, =:1/1C 2, C1/PS, FL, FI/D,-FI/INT 6, RI/ANZ
! WH 8, VR, FILE, CS/RF. a
i ra : r
! SECRE 1 1619262 FEB 16 29257 65 1m 61818
PRIORITY DIR IKEQ PRICRITY LANT! BARR CITE WAVE 8326

INTEL TYPI i i
SUPDATA: avcAtter-1 FRCM FRANK FIROINI. RID: INOCX.
FILED 1619

| REPORT CLASS CCKFIDENTIAL CCNTROLLED 91SSEM

COUNTRY: CUBA

" SUBJ: PLANNED AIR STRIKE ACAINST HABANA BY THE HIRR ch 16 FEBRUARY
1965 ;
OOl: 16 FEBRUARY 1965
PADA: UNITED STATES, MIAMI (16 FESRUARY 1965)
ure 671g ;

SOURCE: A MIAMI BUSINESSMAN WHO WAS A RESICLNT CF RASTIIS FOR

SEVERAL YEARS, THE SCURCE HAS CCNTACTS WHO ROCOCHEZE 7 paaritesiesaricess
“TW COMMENT,

Aoasd
CSD; un ps ic ie a ADVISED $100 OF TOCS ‘
[ere eeomy ec. MS i

TOCS DB~315/00550-65 i

| RGuTNE TX Teton ‘
BASED ON UFG 6710 :

1 PROJECT
CAPCLATTER/1) ‘

DATE DisiRiBUTIO.
16 FEBRUARY 1965
an (1), re
Scan ‘=
e REPRODUCTION @¥ OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE 1$ PROMIEITED,

Copy io.

Low.

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

Loa


__ CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

i FROM:
{ACTION
1
H
1 INFO.
ina 81218 PACE 2
i
4

CHANNEL TO US IRTCLLICEINCE.

THIS INFOPMATICH WAS OSTAINED FROM

i FRANK FICRINI.

|

f

:

i Sz fsf RSE (nt eee Bee eee

{RELEASING 1 WO: . DASE DISTRIBUTED,

ao |
\ te USSeseeeeeerereemneenegeeenee

loess, | eee



a ore tne
A CONTRALIFD OISSEM

i __

TCCNABENTIAL CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY © PRIORITY 7

Intelligence Information Cable

| COUNTRY CUBA TOCS D8~315/00550-65
DATEOF 16 FEBRUARY 1965 DISTR 16 FEBRUARY 1965
INFO,

‘SUBJECT
PLANNED AIR STRIKE AGAINST HABANA ON 16 FEBRUARY 1°55
} BY THE MIRR

| BATE AcQ. UNITED STATES, MIAMI C16 FEBRUARY 1965) ner mn 81818
i

SOURCE FIELD REPORT NO. UFG 6710
‘AND
APPRAISAL: A MIAMI BUSINESSMAN WHO WAS A RESIDENT OF HABANA FOR SEVERAL YEARS. THE

SOURCE HAS CONTACTS WHO RECOGNIZE HIM AS A CHANNEL TO U.S. INTELLIGENCE.
THIS INFORMATION WAS OBTAINED FROM FRANK FIORINI.

: '. AT ABOUT 129) AM ON 16 FEBRUARY 1965, FRANK FIORINI SAID i
: THAT THE MOVIMIENTO INSURRECCIONAL DE RECUPERACION REVOLUCICRARIA : ‘
;  QMIRR, INSURRECTIONAL MOVEMENT FOR REVOLUTIONARY RECOVERY) ‘135 :

| PLANNING ANOTHER AIR STRIKE over CUBS ON 16 FEBRUARY. BILL J0EXSOK,
| AM AMERICAN PILOT WHO ARRANGES THE SUPPORT ASPECTS FOR SUCH STRIKES
AGAINST CUBA, TOLD FICRINE THAT HE AND MIKE RAFFERTY HAD HAD A

| HEATED ARGUMENT WITH ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA, MIRR LEADER, AT 430U7

11345 PM ON 15 FEBRUARY BECAUSE BOSCH WANTED HIS PILOT TO Bog

THE CITY OF HABANA. JOHNSON AND RAFFERTY TRIED TO ACVISE BCSCH
‘The material eoptaing taformatinn

atecting the Notional Defense o” the United States within the meaning mf the Saplomage Laws, Tide
4 UBD, Been, 162 and TH, the trenscatanton or versiotion of Which Is say manner to an unevinertand perme to pretieited Sy lew,

aT}
“CONFIDENT AE pa
Peery CORRE este esac
STATE/INR DIA ARMY/ACEL NAVY KS COEF MA WIC AW HA Ott eet Coe cu og EVD

Ae mt
FDIC 2, CIA/NMCC COAST GUARD BORDER PATROL Fil ENS TREASURY CUSTCES,
IMMEDIATE TO: STATE (ROI)

BIASCUIE :
e1n em tame ate nee :


‘TDCS08-315/
“AGAINST SUCH AN OPERATION BUT BOSCH REFUSED 10 BE DISSUADED ane
INSTRUCTED HIS PILOT TO MAKE THE MISSION. THE PILOT, AN UNIOENTI
FIED AMERICAN WHO MADE THE PREVIOUS ‘TWO RAIDS, AGREED To MAKE THE
MISSION FOR A LARGE SUM OF MONEY. HE WAS TO BE ACCOMPANIED BY
AN UNIDENTIFIED CUBAN PILOT. eee Cy
2s FIORINE SAID THERE WAS SOME DISCUSSION OF BOMBING SOME
ANTI-AIRCRAFT UNITS NEAR CERTAIN UNIDENTIFIED TANKS BUT BOSCH
ALLEGEDLY INSTRUCTED THE PILOT. TO FORGET ABOUT THEM AND HIT ANY-
THING HE COULD. : :
; "Be FLORIND SAID THAT BOSCH HAS A 8-25 HIDON IN THE NORTHERN
PART OF FLORIDA NEAR AN UNIDENTIFIED SUGAR MILL. THE AIRCRAFT
. WAS PURCHASED IN TEXAS AND 1S IN GOOD CONDITION.
_ he CFIELD COMMENTS THE MIRR ANNOUNCED ON 13 FEBRUARY THAT ONE
. OF STS TWIN-ENGINE PLANES BOMBED AND STRAFED THE BAHIA HONDA
"SUGAR CENTRAL ON CUBA'S NORTH COAST OF PINAR DEL RIO PROVINCE IN
THE EARLY MORNING HOURS OF 13 FEBRUARY. ON 16 FEBRUARY THE MIRR
j — ANNOUNCED THAT THE 6-26 WAS OVER CUBA FOR 21, MINUTES OM THE RAID
{ AND 01D NOT DRAW ANY GROUND FIRE. NAPALM BOMBS OF 19% POUNCS EACH,
A 20B-POUNS HIGH EXPLOSIVE BOMB AKO PHNSPHOROUS INCENDIARY CEVICES
WERE ALLEGEDLY DROPPED. THERE HAS GEEN NO ANNOUNCEMENT FROM CUA
INDICATING THAT SUCH A RAID TOOK PLACE. HOWEVER, HABANA RADIO
DID NOT ANNOUNCE CONFIRMATION OF THE MIRR'S 17 JANUARY STRIKE
AGAINST THE NIAGARA SUGAR MILL UNTIL TwO DAYS LATER. >

5+ FIELD OFSseM: CINCLANT, CINCSO, COMKWESTFOR, MiAMI REPS

1 eee RL WS PLB ON toe

obte weite|

| vy 7)

o lela ee ope



a a ae
CONEIDENTPAL eee ‘TDCSps- AGE 3

Pl
315/00550-65
OF STATE, USCG, BORDER PATROL, I&NS, FBI, AND CUSTOMS.

END OF MESSAGE

