# 104-10185-10161

## Page 1

104-10185-10161

FILE TITLE/NUMBEP/VOLUME:

Licacey (ine l'ileune)

Eperatiens

52-6- 199/3

INCLUSIVE

DATES: 25 Jon 1915 = 21 Sept 19606

CUSTODIAL UNIT/ LOCATION:

Ranr: 20i1

DELETIONS, IF AVY:

DATIE

RECEIVED RETURNED

7:35

15 ANc38 Au 15,1718

REVINEM BY

(PRINT 8016)

EDLAPER

LOPEz

STORATUN: OF

sung.

FACT THIS FILE.

12196

RETURN 7O PE: 2.

ALSTERINI

IS iN Cit

Fals

---

## Page 2

in to on mate sterille

SECRET

28 JANE:

FROM (Headquarters component)

TO :

SUBJECT AND PROJECT FILE REQUEST

AND FIELD NOTIFICATION OF ACTION

FID/AN

TO : (Station/ Base)

FROM: (Division)

Chief of Station, Mexico City

Thief, Wl Divisior.

INFORMATION FOR REQUESTERS

A. COMPLETE ITEMS I THROUGH 12.

E ITEM 10 ENTER OLD TITLE WHEN AMENDING A TITLE. CITE

ARY FILES. SUCH AS 201 OR PROJECT FILES THAT ARE RE-

B ITEM 3-ALL FILE TITLES MUST HE STERILE SINCE THEY ILL

LATED TO THE FILE COVERED BY THIS REQUEST. ITEM 1O MAY

APPEAR ON THE FIELD COPIES AND ON MACHINE LISTS.

ALSO BE USEO TO GIVE REASONS FOR THE ACTION BLING RE.

C ITEM B-ALL REMARKS MUST DE STERILE.

QUESTED. TO IDENTIFY YE TYPE OF MATERIAL TO BE PLACED

IN A FILE ON TO MAKE OTHER EXPLANATORY REMARKE.

= ITEMS ' AND B-USE FIRST THREE LETTERS OF DISPATCH SUH.

BOLS

FOR

FIELD

STATIONS

HEADQUARTERS

ELE-

F. ITEM PI-A RECOROS OFFICER MUST SIGY ALL FILE ACTION RE-

MENTS ACCORDING TO ESTABLISHED NUMERIC CUDIS.

QUESTS

CONSULT YOUR RMO ON ANY PROBLEMS THAT ARISE.

INFORMATION CONCERNING FILE

TYPE OF FILE

CODE (FILE) NUMBER

COUNTRY NUMERA

SPECHIC SETACT NUMBIN

SUBJECT

PROJECT

50

1.7913

3. FILE TITLE ISPECIFIC SUBJECTI

LICOOKY • Operations

ACTION REQUIRED

ANALYSIS ACTION

DISPOSIPION

& OPENFILE

i AMEND FILETITLE

& REMARKS TFOR FIELO DISTRIBUTION)

CLOSE FILE

(INDICATE DISPOSITION)

RETAIN

DESTROY THRU (DATE)

I DESTROY

7. INTERISTED STATIONS

KNM

B. INTERESTED HEADQUARTENS DESK

50

FILES ACTION

HOLD EX

PESTRICTED

UNRESTRICTEO

CS FILES

16 COMMENTS INCLUDE SPECIAL HEASQUARTERS HOUTING INSTRUCTIONS,

PREPARE FOLDER AND

SENd tO REQUESTER

OFFICER A DESA

SANENTATT

Pustns /5/1

ENDORSEMENT

COCRDINATION

APPROVAL

're wards?

; ci

CODE I FILE, AUGGER

1271:

---

## Page 3

i rise.

CONFIDENTIAL

NOTICE

THES FILE HAS BEEN PROCESSED AND RETIRED. DO NOT

ADD ANY DOCUMENTS TO THIS FOLDER. FORWARD CS

DOCUMENTS THAT SHOULD BE INCLUDED IN THIS FOLDER

TO RID/RPU GE-58.

NOTICE

COXFIDENTIAL

ines 2583

---

## Page 4

1d-0d0d

SECRET

TIMEN FELED NO

19 SER S6.

FROM: (Headquariors component)

W1/1

TO

SUBJECT AND PROJECT FILE REQUEST

AND FIELD NOTIFICATION IF ACTION

RID/AN

TO

: (Stallop/Bose)

Mexico C1tz

FROM: (Division)

WHD

INFORMATION FOR REQUESTERS

COMPLETE ITEMS I THROUGH 12

MAR ON THE FED CORES NOON MACHINESE MIL

LATED TO

ALSO BE USED TO GIVE REASONS FOR THE ACTION BEING RE-

D'EM G-ALL REMARES MUST BE STERILE

QUESTED. TO IDENTITY THE TYPE OF MATERIAL TO DE PLACED

ITEM 8 AND B-USE FIRST THREE LETTERS OF DISPATCH SYA-

IN A FILE OR TO MAKE OTHER EXPLANATORY REMARKS

BOLS FUR FIELD STATIONS AND LIST HEADOUARTERS ELE

MENTS ACCORDING TO ESTAULISHED NUMERIC CODES

OURS IS ASSOR SOR HE ONE SON LENS ACTIONTE:

INFORMATION CONCERNING FILE

TYPE OF FILE

CODE TFILEI NUMBER

COUNTRY NUMBER.

TATEGORT NUMBIN

SUBJECT

PROJECT

50

6

SPECIFIC SUBTECT NUMBER

129/3

3 FILE TITLE (SPECIFIC SUBJECT PROJEC IS LIMITED TO 15 SPACESI

LICUOKY/Operations

ACTION

REQUIRED

ANALYSIS ACTION

OFENFILE

X CLOSE FILE INDICATE OSMOSITION:

AMEND FILE TITLE

& REMARKS (FOR FIELD DISTRIBUTIONE

Proj 1s terninated

RETAIN

XI

DISFOSITION

DESTRUCTION RECOMMENDE

MIU • DATE

INTERESTED STATIONS (PROJECTS ONLYI

rAM

TA INTRESTED HLADQUARTERS DESA TLIST ACTION DESK FIRSTI

50

FILES ACTION

UNRESTRICIED

CHARGE PERMANENTEYTO

'OFFICER @ DESKO

RESTRICTEO

10. COMMENTS INCLUDE SPECIAL HEADOUARERS ROUTING INSTRUCTIONS)

Illes attached for ratirerent

SO TO FINITE

ENDORSEMENT

12

COORDINATION

VEURICE

HID

ANNIO APROVAL

IFPLKARLES

16:412

FORM

12-83 812

Dip Sept 66

OBSOLET ON VIOUS

50

COUL I HET NUMN

6

129/3

SECRET

38

1-E3 COPY

---

## Page 5

LAFO

DISPATCH

Chief, Wil Division

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

PROCISSINO ACLION.

DARNED RA INOCA

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

CRET QUALIFILD DESA

CAN NUDGE INDEXING

Chief of Station, Merdoo CIty

Porvardina Of Clippines and Conents Concernine Conference on

ACTION REQUIRED. REFERENCES

Action Required: J Hones Fl.

As Headquarters is already mare, a Latin American Conference to Study

ade Situatlon of the Jewish Moority in the Sovlel Union (Conferencia Latino»

americana de Estudios

sobre la Situación de La Mnoria Judíe en La URSS) vas

beld in Medco City during the perfod 1j - 15 May 1906. Judging by numerous

articles in the press, Política,

Les qui in l'Extoo, Sucesos Para Todog IBCE

attachments under separate cover) and exceryts iros conversetiong between

serous persons on LLENVOY and LIFTAI, the Sovlet Embassy, the Mexican

Corrunial Party (PC - Partido Cornista Moriceno) and other goupe and indivi-

dual Communists were deterained, if possible, to prevent the Conlerence 1om

rile held and, failing that, to discreilt 16 completely and pin the ODYCE/

Despite their efforts and the voluminous edverse propazanda,

both before end aiter the Conference, the Conference was held and vas probably

Polftlea, 1 May 19C6;

carried an article attacking; the proposed Con-

terence and Idiculing sose of the Mostcan participanta (Attachoeut A).

It

contains, mong other thines, a partial reprint of the text of on lnterview

or statement by Icoles 3. LeoDoV, Fresa Altaché of the Sovlet Ebbessy, in

shich be states that Mexico should not be drasm into the cold var propazarda

baitle, and be maintaina that Jevs in the Soviet Unlon are not ulstreated or

discrinineted egalngi.

In addi:los to the attacis and counterattacks in the

press, efiorts vere nade (based on LikAT on Errique SiO Colei, Gerard

PIETIE CHARLES, and LIUINOY) to prevent Carlos Pellicer, & darilne of the lestcar

left but not a formal PCH senier, Iron takini part; Pellicer is an official of

the Nerdcan Cormittee for the Defense of the Jews 10 the USSR (Colté Mexicano

Pro Deíensa de los Judios en La Urión Soviéica). Polftice, 15 lis laco

CONTINUED

=...

Attachoeitas

Na states above, INDER SEPARATE: COVER

Distribution:

3 - Ouses, lil Divialon, Maste use

DATE

FNA-260

71356-41.99

50i-12013

---

## Page 6

SECRET

COTTIRATION OF. DISPATCH

ITH-22207

(Attachen: I) costlaued the stack on the Conference and 1t0 participantu,

clalalas la el'ect trat 1t 1a a clear anti-fover more incred by OLACID.

16 lay, according to the article, enorous cigatures bad been collected ola

progresalve nonliesto".

protestiny the Co:terance.

The diat ductios many well

Aitachou sloy (Ariactsent C) 1n a

"procresalve naalicolo", thies us puiliches ta fa bla on 10 hay loie,

and a copy ot a sanifesio (Arachnert D) publiniod 1n L Herco.

22 Ass91 19660

üy the frulena Comitzee or the belone on the deve in the Ussi, In which a

nunker ol demida are waic on the sovie: Guverncent tita respect to the jewn and

tie•s rehta.

La Vaz de Mexico, 15 day licE (Attaciment E) carried a article hitterly

aliacklug the Conference, union It. charges 10 veins organised and held ly troupe

and persons in the service of ODACID.

It spectitcally nunes LiCOOKY-l, although

the latter's rano la lucerrectly spelled, as oue of ihose responsible for the

Conference and Baje she ia

"wali coonected" wilh ODYOtE palice.

21 lay 1Sir, carrled an article (Autechuent F) attacking the Conference end 1ts

orgaalaira and charglos tha: there oce

sintever torces batial the Conference.

Tale arsicle carries a picture of "IcoOt.

Bucesos, a June Life, Incändel an Inderted shest, (not found in all coples

or the edition enticled "An Agent of the IDI and INTERPOL ir tbe Assoclation of

Mestcan Witwerg," which deala slei exclusluch uta WcoY-, her eulaion iron

Chile, vort la Mexico, and cortacie and activitlea l laxico.

It chares tba: In

Maxico sie 10 VarlinG ior Daulsà Jaceo, who ls ramonalblo to 30108% (ittachnent o).

5. LICOOTY l's raDe appeared in a soulco (Astechoen: F.) apearias in El

Excelsion 26 kay lin by Vicente Echeresria del Prado, Unsure: of the Mexlcan

Ánnocialion ot Writers (NA - Asuclacios de Locritora de México, A.C.), shica

sloply stated hat LICOOtl la rot autho-leed to accopt dues or handle other

¿unineda o' tha All blinin tbe provoce of the "reasurer's Jutles and oblliations.

lorever, In view oi the edverse puilicity merloaly, the anouncement ded the

eisoc: or liplled thai the Alic or mesters ot lhas cloup bellovel the charjes

tba: 110008X»1 lad a part lo oryanieiro the Conference and/0= 19 dis Accat 06

KULANE. FLe DOTICO, aS 1L DODORIS, alsO LADlieS tURL LICCOSY-1 VES alahardlina

Echevertta offered to pubiian the clari.lcstior on the aicot 8.

unler: he li announcenes appeeral horever, LIcal-l assed him roc to do po aid

bald she wouli tRio up tio cotice and ay clarircalion sita tie ARiC Juguice and

Focos Cornis=1o::

On 9 June I'Kw Wille conversin; lth SiD (Aitechsent 1), Lenior anit

Couterence, aod roes noù vant ine corlels to cacelosur ter as on ciemy.

contented cha: incocky-d had leit hin har phone mucer and lad assol bla to help

i (prosuzanly refute the charian thet ane was insolied viab the Comercuce).

To LILOK case officer who currently hauólea 1IC0058-1 said on ile coralni of

1i June I0Là Chet LICOOKYLl iod hua sce lad called the Soviet Press Altacié to

deny thai she ted lad autbins to do with ine Conierence "Decaise 1i 10 Whet she.

VOIla nonGAliy do."

She did noi, hoveyer, sentina beloreiani tha, sha tatended

SECRET

---

## Page 7

SECRET

COMATHUATTON OF DISPATCH

IDSLA-29207

appeared in la Vo7, Política and Sicetos. The souleto, uho aro protably mare of

prevous Cuban chartea tie: LICOO-1 18 an ODYOKE eLen:, probably feltethat ea

an Aneriesa closely associated miin the ANAC LICOOKY-l voula be reliezaule to

such an attack.

Mindstry of Government did vis!:

oinery 1a ordor t0 renes 1i, aul lo provided her vica a letter to ehow io

Mexicen bonle: nuthorities permitiing bes exit.

She la curreitly in PIPRIX bul

lo expected to rebum lo lenico in e leu deje.

As Headquarters 10 avare,

LIOOCTY-1 vill be verminated effecilve

30 June IScús the decision, so terminaie ins vas neue some thee aco, prior to the

In Monico, altbough mazy Mexicans undoubiedly do int belleie the charges ani

"come to her defeuse."

10. A diopatch stil be preparod and corverded vhen the terination has leea

completeù, and any nev devalommento with repec:, to ler alleger participation 1a

the above Conference vill be Lncluded in thai uispatch.

for

Millan? C. CURTIS

BECRET

---

## Page 8

DISPATCH

OUASENNICATION

SECRET

"Chief, Wil O1v1s10n

COS, Santiago; COS, Paris/LCPIPIT: Chief, KUKOLF

Chief of station, Help ty

'First Congress of latth Inoricon Cultural Coumunit

ACTION RIQUIRED. ALFERDNCEN

Reference: INB-10,024 (not sent santiago)

PROCISEING ACHION

NO 1X20UNG REQUIRED

CAN NECE COME

1.

'Attached is a newspaper orticle which appeared in Excelsior of

subject.

Statton had a considerably more

detriled report from LICCOky-l on the same subject which she

obtained from vario MINFEFONTE Toledo, who attended as a Mexicen

deiegate.

Unfortunatrly befres this report could be lisseminated,

we were scooped by the newspaper.

At any race,

there are

elaboratin: comments which may cake it more useful:

=. Montoforte, on arrivine an Arica!

already had a plan

en the structure and functions

tre conunidades,

and since no one else

he claimed virtually to

have directed the Congress.

b. à provisional sccretariat was formed in Arica to

orrantze the second Contress of the Latin American

Cultural Community.

This consisted of: the Chilean

writers luis CYARiUN, essayist and Dean of the faculty

of Plastic Arls oi tie cational University of Chilc;

Nicanor PARiA, poet and mathematician: Sergio VODANOVIC,

dramatist. The Cecond Congress was planned for Mexico

in 1967.

c. To oversee the formation of the Latin Imerican Commu

of triters,

affiliation commission was

consisting

of lno followink:

Carlos PELL ICER and

Juan PUIFO

for Mexico and the Caribbean: fau SALARRUE

and Ernesto CARDENAL der Central America; Benjamin

CARRION and Jorge MAlAlal for the Greater Colombia

CONTINUED

Attachment:

Article,,

as stated in para. 1, 1/5

Distribution:

•Chlel.

FID, w/att

I - CoS, Santiao,

w/att

watt is 809:

CROSS REFERENCE TO

13ºA-26012

JASSIS ENTICA

SECRET

CB

DATE

23 Hay 1966

30-300-5

---

## Page 9

14-0000

CONTINLATION OF DISPATCH

SECRET

-2-

HMMA - 29012

d..

zone; Tristan de ATHAYDE and Jorge AMADO 1OF

Brazil; Juan Carlos ONETTI and Jose Luis ROVERO

for the River Plate area; Jose Santos GONZALEZ

Vera and Fernando ALEGRIA for Chile, Peru and

Bolivia.

The affiliation commission will form the initial

of writers of the Community within a six-month

Thereafter, acceptance of new members will

be suspended for six months, but will then be renewed

in order to facilitate the work of organizing the

Second Congress of the Latin American Cultural

-2.

Carlos Pellicer and Juan Fulfo are respectively the president

and vice-president of the Asoclacion de Escritores Mexicanos,

(Association of lexicin Writers = AEMAC), see MEXI-6177

of 5 February 1966, an organization dedicated ostensibly to

bettering the welfare of writers through increased fringe

benefits as well as better publication and distribution of

their works.

Its constitution specifically forbade its in-

volvement in political affairs or entanglement with inter

national organizations.

Mario Monteforte is a member of

this organization.

During recent months, under. the aegis

of Pellicer and Rulfo, efforts have been underway to revise

such a way as to repeal these provisions

same time alienating those of the members who

are opposed to dropping these provisions.

3.

4.

Despite the vagueness of the wording of articles 3, 4 and

5 (see numbering in attached news clipping) there

disputing.their political.nature.

Monteforte alleged to

LICOOKY that he did not feel the wording of these three

articles is beyond the bounds of reason

for a "non-political"

organization.

LICOOKY concedes that their wording is subject

to the broadest interpretation

If Monteforte should ever lose

"conductor's baton."

Both are guilty of disingenuousness

or at best naivete, since these articles

to us to be not

only a license, but

almost a battle cry for political militancy

from community members..

During his trip, Monteforte claims to have met the Chilean

President and the Foreign Minister.

The former, with whom

Monteforte discussed the idea of the comunidades, agreed to

write to President Gustavo Diaz Ordaz of Mexico

stressing to

him the imporlance of support for the comunidades.

The inpli

cation is that Mexico's financial and moral support for the

next Cultural Congress will be sought in this way!

SECRET

---

## Page 10

CONTINUATION OF DISPATCH

SECRET

-3-

HANA -29012

5.. The organizing commission for the Caribbean section of

the Comunidad latinoamericana de Escritores (Community of Latin

American Writers - CLE) has begun issuing invitations to both

individuals and organizations to join.

The ABlIC has received

such an invitation, but legally still must change its constitu

tton before it can join.

The letter of Invitation did not

reprint the basic principles of the CCCL to which the invited

organization would be

expected to subscribe. Whether this was

deliberate omission in the nature of entrapment, or whethei

It was felt articles such as the atlached had adequately covere

the ground, is not known.

Owing to LICOOKY-l's planned departure from the area

the end of June 1966, 1: is not Ilkely Station will have

same insight into the progress of the CLE.

Asily.

Willard C. CURTIS

SECRET

---

## Page 11

Fon: CaS, MexiCo Vision

Attachment

tc HMMA-29012, 23 May 1966

SEGRET

50-6:129/3

DEFERRES

---

## Page 12

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

mutter Metin

.80

Chief, WH Division

XX

INFO

Chiel of Station, Mexico Cityle

SUBJECT

• LICOOKY Progress Report: 1 October 1965 - 30 April 1966

ACTIOPi PEQUIRED - REFERENCES

Reference: HNBA-2735S, 7 October 1965

PROCISSING ACTION

L NAMED FOR INEXT

NO INDEXING REGIORED

ONLY QUALIFIND DEST

CAN NUDGE INDEXING

MICROFILE

Station regrets the delay in keeping Headquarters informed

of the progress of our association

with LICOOKY-1,

proposed amendment to the LIREAM Project involving LICOOKY was

we informed ker on her return to Mexico that we could

no longer justify the continued association at the present rate

were simply not getting enough out of it,

she could regularize her status here and obtain worsing papers, we

than happy to conclude a new arrangement with her.

She felt there was little chance of this, and we then told her we

would conclude our arrangement with her sometime in the summer.

indicated in paragraph 2 of the attachment, the date has now been

tine all outstanding financial

arrangements with ber will be terninated and she will be given her

Unfortunately,

LICCOKY-1 seems to be incapable of reallzing

which side her bread is buitered on, at least here in Mexico.

cannot parcel her time out io her various interests, and therefore

The profiles

still hope for one on Francisco

literary figures as amount

lie arc not sanguine.

paper on university reform.

CONTINUED

taorens Report (in triplicate), /w

Distribution:

3 - Chief,

WHID, s/ait

" fr

it

....

CANS AFFERENCE TO

I9 C

DISPATCH STABLE AN MIMGER

HILA- 28944

CLASSIFAIATIORE

SECRET

17 Kay

1966

50-6-129/3

---

## Page 13

CONTINUATION OF DISPATCH

SECRET

= 2-

HHYA- 28944

3.

The

advance made her at Headquarters is being held.

over her as an inducement to give us the balance of her time

doese de treate she the blance eate she done

If she

does this,

we will write off the advance here.

not, $195

of the advance will be counted as her February

salary,

$48 as travel expenses from New York to Washington

and the remainder will be written off.

Rather than go through the formality of a project

amendment as per HMbW-14517,

Station would prefer merely to

consider the project as terminated as of 31 December 1966 and

pick up subsequent costs in LIRANCH. A formal project ter-

mination will be submitted in the near future.

for

Willard C. CURTIS

SECRET

---

## Page 14

14-00000

#:: 17-98-9944

171:26 196.6

LICOOKY Project

Progress Report

1 October 1965 - 30 April 1966

1.

Production

#. LICOOKY-l has contioued to devote the bulk of her"

time to the Mexican Writers' Association (AEl). She

continues to handle most of Ite administrative work.

She also organizes and does most of the work on the

majority of the projects or activities which the

AEl sponsorg.

b. L-l continued to report on efforts to establigh the

Latin American Writers' Community (CLE), including

the results of the Organizing Congress in Arica, Chile.

She reported on the steps taken by Mario Monteforte

Toledo in beginning preparations for an early 1967

Congress in Mexico and on the AEM's probable role in

helping organize that Congress.

c." I-l supplied information on reactions among the Cen

tral Amertean community in Mexico to the Guatemalan

election campaign and results.

d. She maintained contact with and reported on individuale

of interest to the Station, Including Monteforte Toledo,

Carlos Pellicer Camara, Manuel Germin Parra, Francisco

Villagran Kraner, and Raúl Osegueda Pelala.

ah# +010017-2744

50613113

---

## Page 15

•. LICOOKY-2 continued to report travel of Communists

or leftists from Central America to Eastern Europe.

During this period he reported on eight such travelers.

2. Operatione

a. I-l has been notified that she will be terminated

eifective 30 June. She has been given the following

requirements to be fulfilled before that date.

Provide profiles on the personality and politica of

significant Mexican and Central American intellectuals

with whom she is acquainted.

Obtain information on the newly-formed Latin American

Writers' Community, its probable political development,

and progress toward the holding of its scheduled meet-

1ng in Mexico City in January 1967. .

• .

Obtain a copy of the analysis written by Rall segueda

Pelala of the problems of authonomous universities.

Special tasks such as reporting on the activity of

Stasia Madrigal and on the UNAll student atrike.

b.

In order to accomplish the above tasks in the short

time remaining, 1-l will be forced to curtail her ac-

= 22 =

. i

---

## Page 16

tivitles at the All. There are enough jobs that

need dolnE at All to occupy her full-time and there-

lore the immediate partial withdrawal from ASM work

is à prerequisite to the accomplishment of these

assignments.

C. Because L-1 has played auch a key role in all AEM

activitles, and therefore in determining the direc

tion and

scope of these

actlvitles, her sudden with-

draval could result in important changes within AE™.

Any major change in direction by AEl would probably

become predictable once the identity of the person

or persons who will nove in to fill the vacancy left

by I-l become known. By having I-l atep aside now,

rather than walting until she is ready to leave Mexico,

ghe may then be able to provide Station wich an ac-

curate account of any change resulting fron her with

drawal.

d. L-2 has not been met regularly since 25 January. On

that date she was given a mailing address thich he uses

to request a meeting only 1f. he bas information to.

report. L-? 18 paid on i plece-rate basis for infor

mation supplied and does not receive a, regular salary:

- 3 -

---

## Page 17

ta-norden

.

3.

Security

No change.

1. Personnel

Handling of LICOOKY-] was taken over by Gary H. Reymander,

from Howard T. Eteinger, on 12 January 1966.

.. 3. Plans

a. See paragraph 2a above.

b. It 1s possible that 1-2 will, in the very near future,

lose access to the travel information which he has

been reporting, i sause he is being Bivon new responsi-

bilities in the office where he sorks. L-? 18 1ntell1-

gent, conscientious, and well-motivated. If he does

lose his present access, the Station will consider him

por other assigamente in which he could de userul.

---

## Page 18

ENCELSIOR

85 May 1866

comunidad

latimoamericama

@comparos en la maliza ita

to planos conjunto destina

de la cuitura latina

de

eraricana, ion el fir do for.

de escritores:

falara

n sentirianto co.e

avo de la miemeutoreinci

sar fUr

esfuerzns

con

Jo#

portores de inteiretuales

824

Estas y cientificos, que inte

por miguel Enardia

Comunkess

Cultural

la:cer, aperto sor lino de

loe mãs proliferne?

tables poias mexicanne pop.

ВеТрО АПАЛЯ ИМ те БойдТа!О

de primerisimo arden !

bre todo maneador profunin

de las anos innizendo pren!a.

panicas, de, el miamo liperpo

un pararnain do i9 mas a-11

lo que lesaimento firma in

l'amado de concenela an de-

fon:4 de los judos, que pro

RasLa contra la encarcelacion

se eseriores o que preside

a AexTación di

Escrtopog

de MArleo, raparto por ias er.

lIpo inanias monira la sup.

rua del lietnam o preside la

Com-ajón do

Afinacion para

la Comunita% Latinoameiica-

na de Piscilmee, Delocacien

para Maxion y

Al Caribe,

junta mon than fullo.

Pperia decres alm

faltar

a la verdal que cualquiara

que pretenda luchar por una

caura justa j anhia y qu

forma

8118 Ar108 49) 40

ara'ados por ura portara de

precion

interrario, do ma

rito arauiar, mrecia en 41d

tiros en ri estranjera

C'arios

Peillip.

irte.i.

parsona

un hembre Te

:5,a5mn juvenil que

artrazard a la larea toet

Bodas Bue fuerzas.

raquele

tт-711:

apologia In

por

1 рас, м..

•joe

enjo

do calllad te

jame que

Poilt

nan desarrolia-

1.=

formarión

*

Ja se o_acinn mexicana y

dei

Car.re

menarrada

lastinramericana

riter imater

muna:! Cultura: I atnname

Brara.

ta,n

6109

}*

Cor.:s15n

ausph

Nacio

nal de

Cuitura,

do Chile,

(obsern pa.

trimantos que faciliter in In

terromunicacion entre les

meares, y la produccón,

pistiurina

ala

y difusion

". Pralmenteldelen

intereres profesiona

Jre no ira rocritores, tratando

da pirar. aromás,

para

rondicionag

independencia prjs.

ura.

"LA Comisión de Literatis-

га Недо &

ntros acuer

dos prárticos sobre mercado

comin dei Whre,

circulacion

adecuara de

bienes cultura

lex rieación de una agencia

literaria,

redactin

de

te una

América,

supe

men de arriedalamos

catedras

r.lu-

cultura

de la región

eiratara"

Pela tar a certo

os articidarts

a ins siglenipe punire

граросо в а invia

exTo qua hayAn de hacor a

Ins puriinies que consideren

гот

lite

maritas

sa7a6 r..

para

Ingresar a la Comuni

don Laiinnamarcans do

de America latina

los cardiasion debe

Tar preptã, las pulacipioR de

fa Caminidar a coniai con

LA TARRA de la Comisióa

abra sindicato que contrin.

de Literstura del Primet

pa al desanni cultura! de

COCL

orA.samente

1a

de furtar in Cliñ y la de sen

lar las Pses estatulares de

la

que 80a

1as

guente

¿gomariar la unilad

interE

TiP-cainbiO entre py

1M.: 258

§la+

Nras

More de mine fare

tarras cuiturales

de

inicelacios

sociperontemt

propone

#10.

organismos in!

010r21

sentidos

pin'o por la eman

8: 21rEr

" molico de

Ano

A mé

pibiarion un

pleno &

cuitura

sar lam"n

nes do escrinips, de impos

canca nacional. identilicadas

m1n 8e68 T7l:1.44

principios

J. por ultima ins eurito

restaurarán y artuaran den.

cios

ia Comunidad indint.

cade organira.

rión por medio de un dele

zado.

Como puede apreclarse por

hasta

Las

finalidades de la ClE no pua

den

ser meioIes

las y la Comición de ATiA.

p:ido quedar mejor

interrada.

"a que a lo cirho

Frilcer har

que

"a9

m.. 7791

ron

dicroneerg'a Juan Pinilt. 0118

autentia sicila diciatia ce

-,..Aualmen:e

• en la lucha la

Foi vine

x7*00

$s passa

megar perdelas

---

## Page 19

ORIG: C. FESTOS-TITT"

EXT :

4506

DATE: 22 March 1966

MESSAGE FORM

TOTAL COPIES I

D INDEX

ZSECR3E

LiNO iNDEX

(FiLE IN CS PILENO.

201-278341

I DESTROY

DO RETURN TO BRANCH

(x00000000500x00000080810020

POUTING

2

ro : I2XI

6

7

230000 20

31 2

FROM: DIRECTOR

WHP

INFO: VR. FILE EE RID COPY Ellies cilic z ONCE ON/CA FLAT 2

WHUP

•

MEXI

INFO.

SITE DIS

LICOOK!

90202

ROP NOXI 65T% (IN T7407)*

1. HOS HAS LOCATED WHAT APPEARS BE AREVALO AND OSEGUEDA RETORIS PREPARED EX

IICOOKY-1 (I-1) IN 1961. POUCHINE COPIES INDÍU-14432. FYI "JALET" RESIGIED EARLY 1963.

2. ODENVY REPORES SOKOLOWSKA UNDER SURVEILLATCE MIAMI NOW, AND ACCORDING CURRENT

INFO PROBABLY WILL RETURN NEW YORK FOR NESTING WITH HER CASE OFTICER PRIOR TRAVELING

MEXT AID ONVARD HABANA. ODENVY WILL KOEP KUBARK ADVISED OF HER TRAVEL PLANS.

POSSIBILITY ODACID WILL LIFT HER PASSPORE.

I SOKOLOWSKA SEES LI IN MEXI, OILE REQUIRDIDIT IS FOR I-I 1O ELICIT AiY ITO

SHE CAN RE SOKOLOWSKA'S ACTIVITY MIAMI, PARTICULARLI RE FULFILLIDNE 07 HER CASE OFFICER'S

INSTRUCTIONS, AND HER PLANS FOR HABANA. LI CASE SOROLONSKA EXTES CUBA VIA SEXI, INI•:

SHOULD ELICIT WIIAT SHE CAN AND OBTAIN TRAVEL PLANS.

LYA L. ODENY MISITE INTERVIEN LICON OT IER INT TRI? DO STATES. A FIRE OR ASES

TRIP PLEASE ARRANGE CONTAGE INSTRUGTIONS WE CASE PASS TO ODENVY.

END OF MOSSACE

WH Cc

ent:

*Request Headquarters look again {OT LICUCIN raPOrES On AFEVAIO and

OSSEUDA.

Request requiresents for LICODY agalIsi SOKOLOiSiA.

WH/C

(it/ arast)

MINY V. BROE

isy

KAUFMANi

RELBABINO ORDI

AUTURNTICATINE

OFFICER

CRICER:

SECRET

. REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN TrE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITEO.

---

## Page 20

OR15 :

ĐiT :

DATE :

B

C.Bustos-Videla

KH/1

4505

15. Mar 66

MESSAGE FORM

TOTAL COPIESE

40

CI DESTROY DI RETURN TO BRANCIA

O FILE RID

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXxX$XXXXOX

ROUTING

2

DINDEX

SECRET

D NO INDEX

OFILE IN ES FLE NO . 201-278841

2

107 V7

TO : MEXICO CITY.

GUATEMALA CITY

8

Niza

FAOM: DIRECTOR

WH8

INFO: VR. FILE DA RID COPY COOPS, CIlE 2, FU FIlINTZ

TO

MEXI

INFO GUAT

CITE DIR

REF: MEXY 6419 (IN 66243)#

i .

882 11

1. REVIEH OF LICOOKY, AREVALO ANE OSEGUEDA HIQS FILES

FAILED TURN UP ANY RICOOKY SUMMARY LATTER TWO GUATS. SHRYOCK

DID NOT RECALL. HMA 18090 OF 3 NOV IS61 FORWARDED MENOS ON

SEVERAL OTHER GUATS

SHE MET DURING HER 1961 TRIP.

2.

HQS DID NOT DEBRIEF LICOOKY IN DEPTH ON VILLAGRAN, ETC,

BECAUSE

PER DIR 85413/ANDJSUZD HE AND OTHER GUAT LEADERS KNOWN

PERSONALLY TO HOS PERSONNEL. ALI INFO SHE OFFERED TO LUND WAS

TURNED OVER TO APPROPRIATE DESKS.

END OF MESSAGE

*Suggest Has might look up info supplies by LICOOKY on Arevalo

and segueda in view political developments Guatemala.

C/WH/2

Licene fines

By fates

RELEASINO OFFICER

COOROIMATIOO OFFICERS

SECRET

REPRODUETION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUINE OFFICE IS PACHIBITEO.

Kaufman

DUTHEMPICATINO

SERIGER

---

## Page 21

D vis

CRASSITT TO FILE NO.

CLMUSIFIED MESSAGE S TOTAL COPiES/

SECRET

ISON/UNTT NOTIFIEO

REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

55

FROM

ACTIN

Sun 8.

vite, rig

ADVANCE COPY

ORD COPY

S=üM c i 1217552

DiF CiTiLXI 6533

Licent

12 MAR 737%6

ALF: WIN 85413 +

AFPRECIATE REF DETAIL. STATION WILL PICK UP LICOOKY ON

RETURN ANO TRY GET AS MUCH DETAIL ON IMPORTANT AEMAC MEMBERS

AS POSSIBLE AS WELL AS OSESUEDA AND VILLAGRAN. FOR THIS PURPOSE

PLAN EXTEND HER PROJECT

NOT LONGER THAN SIX MONTIS AT SLIGHTLY

HIGER MATE THAN PREVIOUSLY. WILL POUCH AMENDMENT TO ORIGINAL

LICOOKY PROJECT,

SINCE

DOUBT LIRANCH CAN CARRY.

SECRET

LIRAVCH

5:33 E5413 LICOOKY

ARMAC OSEGULLA AND VILLAGRAN NO CEEF

SECRET

all alis."

---

## Page 22

MESSAGE FORM

O DETHY I MTVEN TO BRANCH DEMEND

TOTAL CODIEN

ORIG: 1. J. Kaufman

UNITE BELL

EXT. 1. 4506

O NO INDE

SECRET

OLE CHALENO

DATE - 1 MaT GG

S:a 18181 797

TO S. MEXICO CITY

FROM: DIRECTOR

come CH P

Wo va. Tils I AID COPY, 07/07, 201, 30/43, 0/085, E

TO

MEXI

Cine ou

85413

REF: MEXT 6341 (IN 59865)*

1. LUND MET WITH LICOOKY-I FEBRUARY Y IN NEW YORK (NY)

AND FEBRUARY 28TH WHEY SHE VISITED WASHINGTON TO REVIEW THE

1962 SENATE HEARING RECORDS FOR POSSIBLE RELEASE TO USE IN HER

LEGAL PROBLEMS. I-1 PLANS TO RETURN TO MEXI NO SOONER THAN

MARCH Y DEPENDING ON PROGRESS WITH HER LAWYER. L WON ROWALTY

CASE WHICH SHOULD PRODECE ABOUT $700 NOW; OTHER SUIT STILL

UNRESOLVED.

2. NO ATTEMPT WAS MADE TO DEBRIEF LJ IN DEPTH IN THAT

ALMOST EVERY ITELHE RAISED WAS REPEAT MATEPIAL ON HER OLD CRONIES

AND CONTACTS. POINTED OR REVEALING QUESTIONING ON ANY ACTIVE

TARUET, I.E. LEVENSON COMPLEX, WAS AVOIDED.

3. FURTHER TO DIR 91088 L-I STATED LEVENSON MET BERDECIO

IN MEXI PRIOR TO EITHER SPRING OR SUKHER 63. IDEN OF GIRL IN

CALIFORNIA UNKNOWN. LEVENSON IVED WITH BERCEDIOS ON ARRIVAL, 63.

L-1 CLASSIFIES REVUELTOS, BERDECIOS, LEVENSON AS NON-CONNIE,

SLIGHTLY LEFT, ALMOST APOLITICAL.

RELEASINO ORPICEE

3 OFFICERS

SECRET

THAN THE ISSUING

CONTINUED. •

AUTHENTICATIN®

• OFFICER

---

## Page 23

1d-0d0d

MESSAGE FORM

SECRET

0R16 :

UNIT:

EXT :

DATE :

DINDER

O NOMADEN

D FILE INCEIENO

UNINOS LIAIU RANCH LIMOD

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXSANMOODL

- ROUTINO

6

8

-FROM: DIRECTOR

PAGE THO

INFO: VA, FILE I RID COPY

LEVENSON'S MAT INTRODUCED TO REVISITOS BE 5/1 33

FILIOS AT PARTY. IN FILIOS' HOME.. FILIOS' SNUGGLING

ACTIVITIES PREVIOUSLY REPORTED (OTHER CHANNELS) INVOLVED

COSOERCIAL ITES STCH AS TRANSISTOR RADIO STC. FOR

BONETARY GAIN ONLY AND NOT INVOLVED WITH SUBVERSIVE ACTIVITIES.

I-] RECALLS MEXICAN MILITARY PILOTS SOMEHOW INVOLVED BUT HAS

NOT DETAILS.

5. IN DISCUSSING LITERARY WORLD ONLY FLEETING REFERENCE

LICEAN EDITOR

MADE TO LIREAM, 1

AND TICHBORN WITH NO HINT OF KUBARK

INVOLVEMENT DESPITE ETSINGER'S ADVICE THAT L-I SAID LIRAM

BLOWN, TO THE CONTRARY, L-1 CLAINS LIRAN CONCEPT WAS FER IDEA

AND HAD SPOKEN 70 EDITOR

ABOUT IT SOME TIME AGO ONLY TO DISCOVER

SUBSEQUENTLY ON RETURN PROM TRIP OUTSIDE MEXT TOR; HAD TAKEN

THE IDEA AND WITH TICHBORN PRODUCED LI REAM. L- CLASSIFIES

MEXICAN LITERARY GROUP WITH VERY FEW EXCEPTIONS AS LOW CALIBER

(PYGMIES) AND HARDLY WORTH BOTHERING ABOUT.

6. L-L CLAINS IGNORANCE ON CURRENT EVENTS GUAT AS SHE

COMPLETELY OUT OF TOUCH SINCE LEAVING MEXI

RELEASINO OFFICER

REPROOUETIG

OFFICEOS

SECRET

THE ISSUINGO

CONTINUED. * ••

AUTMIITICATINO

Cary ti

-*0

---

## Page 24

ORIG :

UNIT:

EXT *

DATE:

TO

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONt:

TOTAL COPIER:

SECRET

XrX8000000UXXXXXXXXX001 XX06XXX108

ROUTING

5.

C NO INDEN

O FILE IN CS FILENO.

PAGE, THREE

INFO: VA, FILE O RID COPY

TO

:

INFO

CITE DIN

85113

7. L-1 ASKED SEVERAL TIMES FOR LATEST DEVELOPHENT ARICA,

CHILE CONFERENCE (MEXI 5177) STATING SHE HAD HEARD OR READ

NOTHING CONCERNING IT SINCE LEAKING MEXICO NOR DID ANY OE HER NY

CONTACTS HAVE ANY INFORMATION. SHE DID SAY HOWEVER MARIO

BONTECRTE TOLEDO HAD

CO SINCE DEPAPPURE, PLANNED RETURY NEXY I MACE

(DESPITE MEXI 6385 AND HUMA 28303 ADVISING THIS WAS A CHANGE IN

PLANS) • REASON BEING THAT MONTEFORTE COULD OBTAIN ONE YEAR ONLY

LEAVE OF ABSENCE FROM UNIVERSITY WHEREAS SOCIOLOGY STUDY SPONSORED

BY UN REQUIRED THO YEARS.

8. CONCERNING RAUL OSEGUEDA I -1 REPEATED HER CAPABILITY OF

INFLUENCE AND COLLABORATION ON IDEAS WITH HILL AS WITH FRANCISCO

VILIAGRAN KRAMER AND MANUEL GERMAN PARRA (PREVIOUSLY REPORTED

HIDA 27924). IN ADDITION THOUGH AND OF INTEREST WAS ADVICE THAT

OSEGUEDA HAD PREPARED A PAPER ON UNIVEPSTTY REFCRA FOR A

SOCIOLOGICAL CONFEREYCE AT VERACRUZ IN NOVEMBER 65. IN THIS CONTEXT

SHE POINTED OUT THAT OSEGUEDA HAD BEEN A MILITANT CHAMPION FOR

AUTONOMOUS UNIVERSITIES IN HIS EARLY YEARS BUT NOW REALIZING THAT

SUCH AUTONOMY HAS BEEN THE ROOT EVIL OF UNIVERSITY MALADY IS

CURRENTLY PROMOTING NEEDED CORRECTION AND CONTROL. FOR SOME REASON

_COORDINATINS OSPICENS

BELEASING NAFICER

SECRET

RAPROCUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING O

CONTINUED

ASTRRATICAPINO

DORY MO.

---

## Page 25

MESSAGE FORM

TOTALCOPIES

•SECRET

LI DESTROT DI RETURN IO BRANCH O FILMO

ORIG

LUIT :

EXT

DATE :

TO

FROM: DIRECTOR

COME:

DJINDER

O NOINDEN

O FILE IN CS FILENO

cond

2

6

7

8

PAGE FOUR

TO

INTO: VR. FILE CO RID COPY

INFO

CITE OUR 2: * 113

PAPER NOT PRESENTED AT CONFERENCE BUT OSEGUEDA LATER. MAY HAVE

DISCUSSED THIS WITH MANUEL, CALVILLO AND MAURICO MAGDALENO OF

MINISTRY OF EDUCATION. L-1 CLAINS SHE CAN OBTAIN THIS PAPER.

STATION MAY WISH FOLLOW UP FOR POSSIBLE USE LICOAX AND OVERALL

UNIVERSITY RETORM PROGRAM, MONTEFORTE AND VILLAGRA: KRAMER ALSO

TOOK PART VERACRUZ CONFERENCE, PRESENTING PROBLENS OF THE LEFT

AND PROBLENS OF THE RIGIT RESPECTIVELY.

9, MUCH TIME SPENT ON L-1 LEADS UPON LATEST ESCAPADE

ESTELLE SOKOLONSKA (MEXI 5054) IN THAT S REPORTEDLY GIVEN ASSIGN-

• MENT BY PRENSA LATINA OORRESPONDENT NY TO VISIT MIAMI AND CUBA.

THIS COORDINATED WITH ODENVY AND REACHED CRESCENDO WITH ODENVY

REPS INTERVIEVING S IN HER NY APARTIENT (WHEN L-1 3Y IAPPENSTANCE

wAS VISITING TD PRIOR,

O DENVY

KNOWLEDGE FULL STORY ON ALLEGED PRENSA

LATINA INVOLVEMENT). L-I MAY BE ASKED TO DILAY RETURN MEXICO TO

MONITORS PLANS. STATION WILL BE KEPT ADVISED.

10. L-1 ALSO SAW ROSE SIMIYOW (NEXI 5075) WHO CLATED TO BE

PLANNING DESONSTRATIONS IN NY BY UTILIZING HER SON GEORGE AS A

CONSCIENTIOUS OBJECTOR TO MILITARY DUTY IN VIETNAM. GEORGE WAS

DISCHARGED ABOUT SEPTEMBER 65 AFTER MILITARY DUTY IN PANAMA AND:

MELEASING OFFICES

SECRET

REPROQUETI

AT OTHERTHAN

ISSUING OFFICA

CONTINUED

• O ° AUTHENTECATINO

come sus

---

## Page 26

o'e:

UNIT :°

DIT:

TOTALCOPIESI

SECRET

DIADEX

I NO INDEX

O FILE IN CS FILENA.

+CXXXXXXIXXXXXXXXXX0%20000

ROUTING

5

6

7

8

то ,

FROM: DIRECTOR

CON#:

-PAGE FIVE

IRITO: VR, FILE IT RID COPY

TO

INFO

ANTICIPATES RECALL AS MEMBER OF RESERVE UNIT. THEY PLAN UTILIZE

SERVICES OF CONSTITUTIONALIST LAWYER BOUDIN. PLAN INCLUDES

NATIONAL, FUND DRIVE, ITEM PASSED ODENVY, MEMOS THIS AND

PRECEDING PARA BEING FOUCHED.

SAID

11. L-1 AD440RĐ STATION HAD REQUESTED SHE MAKE PROFILES

OF SELECTED FERSONALITIES (WEXI 6419) BUT THAT SHE HAD NOT HAD

TIME TO COMPLETE. SHE INTENDS DOING THIS IMMECIATELY ON RETURN.

I-1 CONTACTS WITH GUAT FXILES BEING REVIEWED WITH GUAT DESK.

WILL ADVISE IF HE DECIDE RECONTACT I-1 HERE FUR THIS PURPOSE.

12. WHILE DISCUSSING WITH I-1 'INTELLECTUAL GROUP" MEXI,

(AS TO WHAT MAKES THEM TICK ETC) HER RECOMMENDATION FOR PRACTICAL

WETHOD TO EXERT INFLUENCE SOLICITED, SHE SUGGESTED THE USUAL

EXCHANGE PROGRAMS ETC. AT SECOND MEET SHE SOMEWRAT DESPONDENT IN

BEING UNABLE PRODUCE REALISTIC BROAD GUAGE PROGRAM. IN THIS

CONTEXT SHE WAS TOLD WE NOT SATISFIED OUR OVERALL PRESENT APPROACH

AND BELIEVE ALL OF US SPINNING OUR WHEELS NEFDLESSLY. ADVISED WE

NUY HOULD PROBABLY HAVE TO REGROUP AND TOLD HER SHE SHOULD NOT

COUNT ON CONTINUED SUPPORT FROM US: WHEN ASKED HER PLANS IF

TERSINATED SHE STATED SIE PROBABLY WOULD STAY MEXI FOR ANOTHER YEAR

COOROINATINO ORDICERS

CONTINUED. ...

AUTHRRPICATINO

RELEASINO OFFICER

ahead ton

NEPRODUCTIONAY

OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMISITED.

500 100.

---

## Page 27

the st treatisti

0RIG :

UNIT:

EXT

DATE :

TO

TA FROM:

DIRECTOR

CONF:

TO

TOTAI

D INDEX

D NO INDEX

DI FILE IN CS FILENO

SECRET

4XOXXXXXXXXx300000

HOUTING

6

PAGE SIX

INFD: VR , FILE D RID COPY

CITE DIR

BEFORE RETURNING NY. SUPPOST WOULD COME FROM FATHER®*

IN NY

SHE HAS MANY 'PROJECTS" WHICH NEED TO BE DONE. NO SPECIFICS..

SUGGEST STATION CONSIDER KEEPING HER ON PRESENT ARRANGEMENTS

COUPLE OF MONTHS TO PRODUCE PROFILES AND ANY DEBRIEFING IN

DEPTH RIQUIRED AND THEN TERMINATE. UPON RETURN TO NY SHE MIGHT

BE PICKED UP FOR CONTACT BY. KULAMP OR ODENVY. HAVE INITIATED

DISCUSSIONS WITH KULAMP AND THEY INTERESTED CONTACT ARRANGEHENT

WITH PIECERATE PAYMENT. LUND FOUND L-I PROBABLY WELL-INTENTIONED

BUT TRAGIC GADFLY HANDY TO HAVE AROUND FOR TIDBITS DESPITE BEING

THOROUGHLY BLOWN BUT NOT WORTH A PROJECT. WILL ADVISE ANY

REQUESTS FOR I-1 SERVICES DURING GUAT POST-ELECTION ACTIVITIES.

13. RECOMMEND STATION EXTEND PRESENT PROJECT FOR TIME

DESIRED AND INCLUDE TERVINATION ARRANGEMENT

PLEASE NOTE LUND

DID NOT TERMINATE BUT ONLY INDICATED THIS AS LIKELY FORTRCONING®

TERMINATION IF SO DECIDED IS NATURALLY STATION PREROGATIVE.

WELCOME. STATION COLLIENT.

END OF MESSAGE

CI/Ops/Hughes (draft)

ted I Gillia

sterline

Jaçoo D.

DC / WHE

RELEAAIRO OFFICIA

COORDINATING CIPICERS

SECRET

REPREDUCTIO

YOTNIA THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE

ДОМІВИТНО.

Kantan

M.S. R24

Kaufman

AUTHENPICATINN

OFFICER

---

## Page 28

INDEN: 1

Outs Oto

CLASSIPY TO FILE NO. 52: C 1J4' 3 CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

І-ДЕЕ ТО

DESTROT

Mexico Ciy

ACTIOn

204-8.

THrO

SECRET

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

DRID COPY

TOTAL COPIES

12

REPROOLITION PRONIBITEI

153

ADVANCE COPY

Diasure Doorro Orase

448 8

S

ECRET

021358Z

DIR. INFO GUAT CITE MEXI 6419

LICOOKY

1• JUST BEFORE HER DEPARTURE FOR PBPRIME LICOOKY TOLD

EASBY AND REYMANDER. SHE HAD PREPARED LONG PROFILES OF JUAN

JOSE AREVALO AND RAUL CSECUEDA FOLLOWING HER FALL 1961 TRIP

TO VENEZUELA. SEARCH OF STATION FILES

DOUS NO SUDENCE THESE

PROFILES ALTHOUGH THERE SONE REPORTING ON IRIP II SELF.

2. DID ADDRESSEES RECEIVE PROFILES? SUGGEST HQS QUERY

rosinace

2iab 33249

54-6-179/3

---

## Page 29

+066243881

CLYDE D. SHRYOCK FOR HIS RECOLLECTION. DECRET

3. GIVEN RECENT REPORTING OY PLANS FOR TERROR iSTIS

RIO / Mis

ACTIVITY IN GUAT FOLLOWING ELECTONA ANO ASTIGUEDA PARTICIPATION, 54 PH'66

NUBARK SHOULD HAVE MOSI DEFINITIVE INFO AVAILABLE ON IMPORTANT

GUAIS IN EXILE.

4. HQS NOTE PREVIOUS CAELES HAVE DESCRIBED LICOOKY ACCESS

TO OSEGUEDA AVD VILLAGRAN KRAMER WHICH APPARENTLY STILL PERSISTS •

DESPITE GOSSIP RE HER KUBA?X AFFILIATION. DID HQS DEBRIEF HER

IN ANY DETAIL THESE CONTACIS?

SECRET

SFN 6419 EASBY REYMANDER JUAN JOSE AREVALO RAUL OSEGUEDA FALL 1961

VENEZUELA NO EVIDENCE HAS CLYDE D. SHRYOCK GUAI OSEGUEDA HQS OSEGUEDA

VILLAGRA KRAMER RE MAS .

BT

""los

DECRET

---

## Page 30

1d-0d0d

DES Do .

CLASSITY TO FILE NO.

M-REE TO FILE MO.

FILE RIO RET. TO BRANCA D

DESTROY Osie.

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

PERSON/ UNIT MOTIB:EO

FROM

Mexico C:T

ACTION

WH.-8

I RID COPY

FIE, VR, CI, CE/OPS, SR-8

TOTAL COPIES

REPRODUCTION PROMIBITED

ADVANCE COPY

Dissusa

SECPE T ISIEIAZ

CIR CITE MEXI 6319

KIDESK

REF.

DIR 91229 4

18FEat61: 58426

PAPA TWO GEF, SUGGEST HOS CONSIDER PRETEXT CALL JEWISH MEMORIAL

HOSPITAL FOR DATE LEVENSON VACATION MEXICO.

SECRET

i KiBARN QUERY TASSPORT OFFiCE SHOWS LeVENSuN jereseri

5F!

6319 81288 HOS JEWISH LEVENSON

SECKET

NANN

---

## Page 31

ORIG :

EXT :

DATE :

CAJGPS

6918

16 Fch 66

MESSAGE FORM

TOTAL COP IR 4

ZGECRET

TO NOR

L FILE IN ES FILE NO. 201 - 771276

STROY I RETURN TO BRANCH O FILE RIE

w0x0000000460480uorwmg0xx0s.son

ROUTING

6

.17 FEU 66

& 17392

та %

MEXICO CITY

FROM: DIRECTOR,

SIG CELL

CONFg

cfoes

INFO: VA, FILe SE RID COPY WH8 Cl 3R8

TO

MEXI

INFO

CITE DIR

81088

KUDESK

REF: НММ*-14325*

.........

1. LICOOKY TOLD LUND LEVENSON CONTACT OF ROPERTO BERDECIO

BEFORE 1963 VISIT TO MEXI

BEPRIEN D GIRL FREIND OF BERDECIO

IN CALIFORNIA.

2. KUBARK QUERY PASSPORT OFFICE SHOWS LEVENSON RENEWED

PASSPORT 14 JANUARY 66 FOR VACATION MEXICO. PASSPORT ORIGINALLY

ISSUED FOR DEPARTURE ONE OCTOBER 62 FOR TRAVEL AND POSTGRAD

STUDY EUROPE INCLUDING SPAIN USSR.

END DE MESGAGE

*ODENVY INVESTIGATION AND TRACES ROBERT CHARLES LEVENSON

201-786276.

Poten

William V. Broe

-..

C/WHD

RILLABING OFFICER

REPRODUCTION

angeles

• SPICERS

SECRET

THAN

Limit

James

DC/CI

AUTHRHTICATING

OFFICER

ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITED.

come no

---

## Page 32

1d-0d0

INDes, Dres

• ne

CLASSIPY TO DILE NO..

PILE HOO

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

36

SECRET

FERSON/UNIT NOTIFIEO

C981E8

-=0t

ACTION

UN IT

8 RID COPY

VIELLE CAZ, CALAROR, DO 4, DOlH3, GloA, SiliS2, 05S 2, CAlDO

SECRET 262150Z

PRIORITY DIR CITE MEXI 6043-

LICOOKY

REF. DIR 74752*

REPRODUCTION PROMIBITEO

1830

# MISS JUNECOES

FETURNING

NEUYORK TO FILE LINCL SUIT.

CONCERNING ARCUTL

26 Je 66H: H: 70к,

1• SUBJ RETURNED 22 JAN BY PLANE TO NEW YORK IG CONSULT

LAWYERS BROWN CROSS AND HAMILTON RE 699, 090 DOLLAR LIBEL SUIT

BEING BROUGHT AGAINST HER BY LYLE STUART, PUBLISHER OF ENGLISH

VERSION OF BOOK FOR KER CHARGES THAT HE ALTERED ORIGINAL TEXT•

VISIT REVOLVES AROUND LAWYERS DESIRE OBTAIN RELEASE HER SENATE

TESTIMONY OF MARCH 39: 1962 FOR USE IN DEFENSE. SHE UNWILLING

RELEASE BECAUSE OF DELICACY SOME OF REVELATIONS ABCUT LINLUCK,

• AREVALO AND OTHERS. STUART LAWYERS ARE SCHEIMAN, ALBERT AND

MACLEAN. FEELS CONFIDENT THROUGH PERSONAL VISIT TO LAWYER CAN

• PREVENT CASE COMING TO TRIAL.

SHE ALSO REPRESENTING

PEESSA SELF IN COMMERCIAL ARBITRATION

CASE 8 FEB AGAINST STUART FOR MIS FAILURE PAY FULL ROYALTIES

DUE HER ON ENGISH EDITION BOOK.

3.. EASBY HAD LONG SESSION 20 JAN ATTEMPTING PERSUADE HER

ad. 11:'

---

## Page 33

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

IN 42076 PAGE 2

HANDLE BY PHONE.

SHE ALREADY TRIED THIS AND FOUND IT UNSATISFACTORY.

SHE TOLD IN VIEW STILL PENDING APFROVAL HER KUBARX FUTURE, HE COULD

NOT POSSIBLY RECOMMEND PAYMENT HER EXPENSES AND URGED MER RETURN

SOONEST TO BEGIN VIGOROUS WORK ON NEW PROJECT DIRECTION. SHE

EXPECTS RETURN 9 OR 18 FEB.

40. NO KNOWLEDGE WHERE STAYING NEW YORK AND TOLD HER ATTEMPT

NO

• ROUTINE CONTACT. IN EMERCENCY TO CONTACT OVERT OFFICE NEW YORK.

IF HOS SEEKS CONTACT CAN DOUBTLESS MAKE THROUGH LAWYERS.

RE CONTINUATION LICOOKY KUBARK ASSOCIATION URGE SOME XIND

DECISION NEAR FUTURE.

SHE ANTICIPATES NO PROBLEM GETTING WORK

NEW YORK IF WE TERMINATE, BUT DOES NOT WISH BE KEPT HANGING. SHE

IS PROBAEL Y SINGLE MAIN SPARKPLUG AEMAC PROGRAM AND OBVIOUSLY

ENTHUSIASTIC ABOUT WORK AND PROSPECTS. BEFORE ANY TERMINATION

PROCED INGS STATION SUGGESTS HAS MAKE CAREFUL DETERMINATION THAT

IT DOES NOT WANT WINDOW INTO AND ACTION CAPABILITY IN INTELLECTUAL

COMMUNITY AND WILL NOT WANT IT TWO OR THREE YEARS HENCE. LICOOKY

HAS WIDEST AND MOST INTIMATE RANGE CONTACTS ANY STATION ASSET THIS •

FIELD WITH POSSIBLE EXCEPTION TICHBORN, STATION AT FAULT IN NOT

EARLIER RECOGNIZING AND REPORTING HER UTILITY IN CENTRAL AMERICAN

LEFTIST FIELD EXHAUSTED AND FUTURE LAY IN INTELLECTUAL WORLD.

STILL RETAINS INTIMATE CONTACT HOWEVER WITH FRANCISCO VILLAGRAN

KRAMER AND RAUL OSEGUEDA.

SECRET

CSN 6043 74752 22 JAN NEW YORK BROWN CROSS HAMILION RE S00, 000

DOLLAR LYLE STUART ENGLISH 39 1 9G2 LINLUCK AREVALO STUART

SCHEIMAN ALBERT MACLEAN 8 FEBSTUART EASBY 20 KUBARK NOT POSSIBLY

SECRET

---

## Page 34

on 42076

PArE 3

9 18 FEB NO KNOWLEDGE NEW YORK NO ROUTINE NEW YORK HOS RE LICOOKY

KUBARK NO PROBLEM NOT WISH AEMAC MAS NOT WANT NOT WANT LICOONY

TICHBORN NOT EARLIER CENTRAL AMERICAN FRANCISCO VILLAGRAN KRAMER

RA UE OSE GUEDA

••."I

BT

""...

---

## Page 35

adars i pore initia scinaision i is in bahat i i can and i sessin retai

INDER, Dus Du.

CLASSIFY TO FILE NO. M

#-REE TO FILE NO.

MULE PID MET. TO BRANCH O

DESTROY O s1e.

MEXICO CITE

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIEO

COPIES/

REPRODUCTIDN PROMIBITED

MOVANCE COPY

UNAT

X RID COPY

SECRET 5620512

PRIORITY DIR CITE MEXY GRAT

LIC OOK Y

PEF MEXI SPASTIN 42076)

76J 654, 42 1 0 1

JI'ST LEARNED FROM REVANDER LICOOVY STAYING HOTEL SUTTON

PLAZA, 1I6 EAST 5R ST. ALTERNATIVE MEANS CONTACT IS THROUGH HER

COCTOR, I. SUADDER, PARPIZON OLAZA, PHONE CI-T-TRAP.

SE C PIOT

CFN 6947 21243 REY'ANDER LICOOKY HOTEL SUTTON FIKA, 11S EAST

58ST I SNADPER BARBIZON PLAZA CI-7-7?99

RT

ALISTANIE

POLICEIN%

'.."

---

## Page 36

1d-0d0

imid..k.

CLASBIFY TO FILE SO.

#-HEF TO FILE MO.

PILE RIO DET. TO BRANCH O

DESTROY

D $16.

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

23/30

SECRET

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFTEO

TOTAL COPIES

Mexico Cit

ACTION

ADVANCE COPY

WH8

O RID COPY

Oleuro Quoreo Drums

FILE, VR, CAZ, CA|pRop, D041 DoH3, ellc2.

REPRODUCTION PROMIBITED

JURIT

To bat

SECRET 333130Z

SUCS INFO DIR CITE MEXI 5750

REF HMMA 27921

1. LIFEAT 27 DEC CONY BETWEEN JUDITH FERRETO AND CARLOS

PELLICER REPORTS LOUISA GONZALEZ HAS ARRANGED PUBLICATION

LETTER DISCUSSED REF IN SUOS MAGAZINE POLITICA. LETTER ON

PRESSES WHEN LOUISA LEFT SJOS. FERRETO SAID WOULD TRY MAKE

COPY THIS PUELICATION AVAiLABLE PELLICER.

2. FERRETO TALKED WITH LOUISA BEFORE LOUISA LEFT FOR

HAVANA 27 DEC.

SECRET

CFN

5750 HMMA

27921 LIFEAT 27 JUDITH FERRETO CARLOS PELLICER

LOUISA GONZALEZ 27

₽T

iSE: 23526

---

## Page 37

DISPATCH

Cruel as Suitor, sai Jose

Cria, Wastern Homieproze Division

SECRET

К. І Ж.

•PROCESSING ACTOM

ARALD FOR ENCEXI

NO ADOLE SAILD

0ET SHED SA

CAN NOGI INODINO

FROM

Crie ol Stalioa, Moxico Cary.

DARE: LEar WritteE by Carlos Pallicor lo A lausado: Frogriao dl American

IN MENCO NUNCE

ACTIONs FET yuur infornation

1. Altached for she infor rallon of addressess are cojide ul

Do he, ornaiu. los ho files daise 4 More. ,ber 1955

to LIFEAt a judita forseto, inod 1 Nove Da: 1955

C. LIFEAT as Judith Ferrot, datod Pirove bor 1465

do Mariorandu tro. ODEVi, daler it inve iber 1965

on lolliotos menaneo, cased is boce ..ver 1j6a

2. Tho stovo abscitions contain d'o: 'asica abou: the arroat and

usenun of Carios Pallicor necaus= di 1hu

.:es titillen sy id

ta A saesador

Fireman of le A sican E: ua00y is resco Cay.

1, ECR SA: JOSE: Assachuren: l recosta a corveszation sill Carlos

Pullicor and Julia Ferroto in mris Ferreto asys Ina: i Pellicor cac: :006r40

extra opioo a dia laster one mili couc ibo.. 1o i no, at irierd in sion Jade tao

will pushina do leller li the numopaper di ine "Partyo" The frieid to whom

FerTOlO raierred 1a Mobable Lulaa Mata lo Goerded, a Migs rantin, embar

ut tire Costa Nican Co

1' ur1o: Parti tho 95 reilaig ilexico in lito Oceabor

Ma carly Novo be: 1965.

for/WallaId C. CURTIS

As stated a10v9

Dist-Laition:

i- 605 8521200719953

CHELSA IS TERRACE TE

DEA TON SATS ME EAR

HiNG: 27921

- DATE

i are bonna do we

27 Dece 5'0: 1803

---

## Page 38

9

Cair :.

OOT ITURN TO-BRANCH

D FILE NID

XxXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX

ROUTING

5

EXT :

SATE :

C. Bustos-Videla

WH/1

4506

20 Dec

65

TO

• MEXICO

FROM: DIRECTOR

CON# :

WH 8

TO

MEXI

REF

MESSAGE FOR::

TETAL COPIES:

066

PASSCREE

201-73÷323

PLE FILE IN CS FILE NO.;

50-6-129/3

20 CEC 55 28

TIVE

57 E

AND ve. Flie SO RD COPY RITAN, CHIC 2, 21/08 26 2

CITE DIR

666351P

INFO

MEXI 5618 (IN 16407) *

HQS CONCURS TERMINATION LICOOKY-2.

END OF MESSAGE

ICFOFILMED

whis u :968

DOC, MICRO. SER

#In view of minina: production of LICCOKY-2 would it work

a hardship on

Central American program to drop him?

(Re provides travel info on Costa Fican Commies.

NH/2

CI/ICG/IV

LICECHYOU

Jacob I. Esterline

ACHD

C9=09::A7:90 9:816E85

SEC.Er

RELEASING OFFICER

+3-101-734573

REPRODUCTIO: BY OTHER THAN THE :SUIAS OFFICE iS PASHIAITES.

Kaufman

OFFICER

---

## Page 39

1.te: Dres D40.

CLASTIFY TO-FILE NO..

I-MER TO FILE 40.

FILE

RET. TO BRANCH D

DESTOST

FROM

LLASSIFIED MESSAGE

23/30 SECRET

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

-TOTAL

COFEs

REPROCUCTIO: PROMIBITED

MEXICO CiTy

WH8

IDIANCE COPY

RID COPY

INFO

FILE, VR, CIlICZ, UHIC 8, Stops, GileA, Gilez, Dou, DOlH3,

190€7 65875330

SECRET 1323202

DIF CITE MEXI 5075

REF

=81 58540719544)

RECEIPT OF LICOOKY- I WRITTEN REPORT REQUIRES SOME

COFRECTIONS IN REF:

A, IGOR INTRODUCED MER TO "YARRY" (BUT NOT 3Y FULL NAME,

WHICH SHE NEVER KNEW:, DESCRIBIUG MIM AS ABSOLUTELY TRUSTWORTHY.

I'LLITE 1983, HORRY RECONTACIED HER THRU JORGE LOSADA WHOM SHE HAD

WITH CIRCE SUE AND THIS TIME HARRY RECRUCIED HER, COVER WIS

RESEARCH FOR FOREIGN INVESTORS.

3. L-I DID NOI TELL IGOR SHE RECRUITED AND WORKING

FOP YUSARR IN MEXI.

SHE SURMISES HE EITHER KNEW 0L3500

OCUTES YSMXOHX09,50÷545 &

MMEN AND

THA:

SHE THEREFORE STILL

WOFKING IN NEXT

PEAL ROSCH FOR ATTEMPTED

KUBARK CONIACT "AS TO PASS

O ET "E CARLOS ENRIQUE DOLANCO,

GUAT EXILE, ObSTIME MEXT RESIDEN!

ON MEDIEN

SCHOLARSHIP.

L-: LEARNED

.1d.

---

## Page 40

1N75330 FAGE 212

EROY CKOLANCHA THAT LE ARRESTEO ABOUT MAY 65 FOR PACCING -YOIACTUFE

TO SAILORS AND MARITIME WORKERS FOR PLACING ABROAD PRUMEN VESSELS

AND SHORTLY TO BE SHOT. SINCE SHE HAD GIVEN CASE OFFICER FAVORABLE

INFO ON HIM ABOUT TWO YEARS AGO, SHE FELT HE MIGHT HAVE BEEN JAILED

FOR COOPERATION WITH KUSARK AND KUBARK MIGHT NO: KNOW IT:

¡FY!: MEXI CAN FIND NOTHING IN FILES RELAYING SUCH INFO TO MGS,

BUT IF!

POLANCO OF INIERESI, MEXI CAN CABLE GIST OF ODDS AND

ENDS

"' "REVIOUSLY FORWARDED.?

MORE ASOLT STASHA, SHE HAD WORKED IN PRENSA LATINA FITH

::. GODEA, EX-NIFE CHE GUEVARA. IN MID SEPT WAS WRITING ARTICLES

EUTEN TORN DAILY WORKER

UNDER ALIAS, PERSON WHOM L- VISITING

"'" TASIA CALLED WAS ROSE SIMINOW, AMERICAN

COMMUNIST: STASHA

- SIMINOW TO RECONVEND HER FOR CLASSES IN MARXISM L- I

IC.:INCED STASHA FULLY COMMIITED TO COMMUNISM. THEREFORE MEXI

RARETS MISTAKEN IMPLICATION PARA A REF,

CE!!. AGE , DECE TERRY: NOT BY 1968 THRU JORGE LOSADA

"TOR KUBARK PRUMEN RE CARLOS ENRIQUE POLANCE

E:..

SOKO_JASKA 65 PBRUTEY KUBARK NOT KNOW FYI NGS

to us a ..

---

## Page 41

..ibt. t

115330 FAtE 313

"POLANCO. NOT PREVIOUSLY STASHA PRENSA LATINA HILDA GADEA CHE

GUEVAKA MID NEW YORK DAILY WORKER L-! STASHA ROSE SIMINOW AMERICAN

STASHA SIMINOW MARXISM L-I STASHA 4 .

9T

---

## Page 42

#- 89

3013

СКАЗДОВУ

TO fILE ND.

К-DEN TO

FILE nO.

HEY: TO MANCH DO

CESTROY

0 1:6.

Magica aty

lit 3

INFo

49

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE 3C

SECRET

#001

ROUTING

B RID COPY

SERVICE

_ MEXI 5075

STA & NR

19 OCTOBER 65

DATE

75338 A

IN NR

PLEASF CORRECT THE GARBLED PORTION(S) OF THIS MESSAGE TO

READ AS FOLLOWS:

MEXI 5875 PARA 1B PORTION READS: "HE EITHER KNEW OR ASSUMED SHE

HAD BEEN RECRUITED IN POPUMEN AND THAT SHE"

SECRET

SEPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE 1S PROMIBITEO

copy no.

---

## Page 43

IP

10

MISPATCH

Chief, WH Division

CLISSIFICATION

SECRET

PROCESSING ACTION

MARKED FOR INDEXINO

XX

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED DESA

CAN I'JOGE INDEXING

FROM

Chlot of station, Mexico cile d

MICROFILA

G LICOUKY Project Progress Report: 1 July - 30 September 1965.

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

Action Required: None; FYIi

Reference

: HNMA-26,757, 29 July 1965

:

Attached herewith is the LICOOKY Project Pregress Report

for the period l Julj - 30 September 1965.

jowillard s. cuRTIs

Attachment:

LICOONY Progress Keport, in triplicate, h/w

Diatribution:

3 - Chief, WID, w/att h/w

...

57-541-6-4913

MEINCA I

CS COPY

DISPATCH JI MAY DAD MLAGEA

HMMA -27, 358

CLASSIICAIICN

SACKET

13250-619/3

• Octoher 1965

DOCUS FILE MARBLE

50-6-99/3

---

## Page 44

4P

LICOOKY Project Progress Report

1 July 1965 - 30 Septemier 1965

+ 997-27358

70c665

1.

Production

a. LICOOKY-l has been the source of 1 HMM.

b. LICOOKY-2 has been

the source of 3 lUMs.

2. Operations

8. The CO has not had any contact with LICOOKY-1 since

she departed Mexico 5 September 1965 for medical

treatment in PBPRIMS. As Of 4 October 1965 LICOOKY- 1

had not contauted the CO. There is no evidence of

her return to her apartment.

b.

During the months of July and August LICOOKY-I has

devoted all of her tine to the d'exican Writers As-

soclation (AEM - Asociación de Escritores de México)

monitoring plans of Carlos pollicer Cámara, Juan

Rulfo and Arnoldo Orfila Roynal to use the dEM to

launch the Community of Latin American Writers (CLE

- Comunidad Latinoamericana de Escritores) as an

affiliate of the Luropean Community of Writers (COMES

- Comunité Europen degli Scrittort).

c.i

During this period LICOOKY-l was in touch with Pellicer

three or four times a week.

8. 32-6 12913

Tee el + +100821358

SEC' :

11.1/.3

iS Cury

---

## Page 45

:

d.

LICOOKY-I attended an AEN Board it Directors Meet-

1og on 25 August 1965 called by Pellicer. At this

metire Peliicer explained bow he had been elected

President of the CLE for Latin America and detalied

•• *

his pians for hosting the CLE Conference in Mexico

City in early 1966.

e. LICOOKY-I had tipped off some of her rightist. friends

on the AEM Board of Directors who immediately pro-

tested.. Instead of anything being arranged a com

mitice of two was appointed to investigate and re-

port back to the Board of Directors

at a meeting to

be held during the middle of October. This committee

Terrie.

Is composed of fion) Ségura Millan and Fo) Martinez

Sotomayor, friends of LICOOKY-1 who have assured

LICOOKY-I they will return a negative report opposiog

Pellicer's plan to use the AEM as host for the 1960

meeting of the CLE in Mexico.

I. Pellicer had asked the Ministry of Education to f1-

nance this 1966 meeting in the name of the AEM prior

to the 25 August 1965 meeting of the AEl's Board of

Directors. If in the October neeting the Board of

- 2-

in

SECRET

---

## Page 46

Directors refuses to host the meeting it will put

Pellicer in an embarrassing position vis a vis the

Ministry of Education.

B. LICOOKY-I assured her CO she would return in plenty

of time to

attend the October Board Meeting and to

arrange support for segura and Martinez at this

meeting.

h. During the reporting period LICOOKY-l has maintained

contact with Marlo Montejorte Toledo, Francisco

Villagran Kramer, Margarita Paz Paredes, Juan Rulfo,

Miguel Guardia Ríos, Leopoldo Zea, Luis Villoro,

Alejandro Finisterre, Benjamin Carrión, Raúl Osegueda

Pelala, Bartoloné Costa-Amic and Autonio Montes de

Oca.

1. LICOOKY-2 continues to report on travel of Comnunists

or leftists fron Central America to the Communist

bloc. During the period covered by this report he

has reported on 34 such travelers.

3. Security

a. The CO at this time can only speculate ca LICOOKY-l's

reason for contacting Igor Gordevitch of Visiós mag-

-3 -

SEURET

---

## Page 47

azine. LICOOKY-l had been told prior to her de

parture that the CO did not know if Headquarters

would want to contact her in New York. If she

wasn't contacted it would mean that Headquarters

had no desire or need for seeing her. An explanation

will be asked for when she returns.

3. LICOOKY-2 has not presented any security problems.

4. Personnel

No change.

5. Problems

No change.

6. Effectiveness

No change.

7. Plans

No change.

- 3-

SEORCT

---

## Page 48

14-00000

0/3ustos-Videla

ORIG :

WH/1

UNIT:.. 4506

EXT :

23 Sept 65

DATE :

TO : MEXICO CITY

FROM: DIRECTOR

EEUF: WH8

MESSUE FORM

TOTALCODIES:

CINDEX

ES/53 E CRET

DINOINDEX

XI FILE IN CS FILE NO. 201-278841

33

LID JY O RETUEN TO BRANCH D PILE L.

коконин на

3

18L

24SEP65 10 465

NO: VA, Bie BE RiD COPY SO 4, DOlM3, C/ORS, WH/C8

TO

MEXI

CITE DIR

1.

HDOS RECEIVED PHONE REPORT FROM MYNO 23 SEPT THAT 5 3 3 5

GORDEViTCiA

LICOOKY-1 HAD CONTACTED KUJUMP THROUGH IGOR FORGET OF

VISION MAGAZINE. LICOOKY HAD TOLD ELLES

ANd SHE HAD BEEN

RECRUITED FOR XUBARK BY MR. HERNDORF IN CUBA, WAS NOW MEXI,

AND WANTED A KUSARK CONTACT IN NEW YORK. SHE ONLY PLANNED

BE THERE A COUPLE OF DAYS PRIOR RETURNING MEXI AND GAVE NO

INDICATION WHY SHE WISHED CONTACT.

CORDEVIAN

2. ALTHOUGH ERICA IS CLEARED KUNOLE CONTACT,

PREFER NOT USE HIM AS INTERMEDIARY TO LICOOKY. IN ViEW HER

PLAN RETURN MEXI SHORTLY HOQS MAKING NO CONTACT. REÇUEST

STATION DEBRIEF LICOOKY ON HER ACTIONS, PARTICULARLY WHY SHE

REVEALED HER KUBARK RELATIONSHIP.

END OF MESSAGZ

jestles

Chief, Hi D

RELEASING OFFICER

CORDIMATING ORFICER

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAM THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PRONIAITED.

l14849109989

---

## Page 49

14-000n

CESSAGE FOR!!

+OTH- 558:55:246

GRiG :

UNIT :

EXT :.

DATE:

C. Bustos-videla

Iih/1

DINSEX

4506

ENDINCEX

8 SeT 65

SE FILE IN CS FILE NO. 50-6-=30/3

TO : MEXICO CITY

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF :

1=0: VR. F::

151

: 5

TO

END CONDO SHE CILOR, CAZCA04

CITE OIR

NEXI

INFO

REF: :3XI 4628 (1X 44044)*

HORS ADOES ACT WISH TATERUTE: TICOONY-I DURING WE!

TRIP TO NEW YORK.

EXD OF MESSAGE

Asked wesher llgs rishon en inla with nicooki-i regarding

COMES Dians.

CA/B5/Fallor (paore)

20215

iroc

DISAR AS GEFIECOS

Fruinan

C/1:/1

Diploit

==

GOGG

---

## Page 50

BESSiCk FORt

DATIN TO LANCE EFILEN

CRiS :

UNIT:

EXT

DATE :

TO :

FROM: DIR:

CC..F:

is:

18/1

4506

Sa"

65

"'EXICO CITY

CASI-DEA

¿ FILED COFILENO. SU-Ó-120/3

Found: b

TO

UNHA

iNFO: VA

61/162

INFO

"EXI

CITE DIR

RIF: "EXI 4025 (1: 44044)*

HOCS ODOES NOT WISH INTERVIEY LICCORT-L DURING HER

TRIP TO NEW YORK.

END OF MESSAGE

asked nother iles wishod to talk with LIccoy-l regarding

COMES plans.

Ci/85/Fallci (phore)

2i662500

HELEASE CFESE9

Acuire?

atti is

---

## Page 51

DISPATCH

CLASSITICATION

SECRET

PROSESSINC ASTON

¡ MARAID FOR INTERING

Chief of Station, Mexteo City

INFa

11O CADDING REQUIRIO

¡ ONLY QUALIFILE DESA

CAN ALOGE IR DENINE

MICROFILNED

#Chief, WH Division

SEP 3

1965

MICHOFILM

SALTCOONY-1 Participation in bexican fritera Adsochatior

ACTIOM RIQUINLO REFERDACES

Reference:

HMMA 26,621, 15 July 1965

1.

LICOOKY-I's efforts as described in reference have

substantial merit and some potential particularly if the Station can

find a way to tie them in with the LIREAM effort in the intcllectual

field.

2.

LICOOKY-? certainly is to be commended for her effort in

getting writers both

of the right and left such as Carlos PELLICER

Camara to join the AFl.

From a KUBARK standpoint the most intcresting

contact is the one with PELLICEP becauge he has been the reported force

behind the CONES/CLE effort in lexico.

3.

ilthough her assigned tasks as reported in para 7 a,

L. and d

of the LILINK memo

do not entail making her witting of other Station

assets engaged in

MISPAWN Ops among the intellectuals, an amendment

• to her OA

is requiree,

and one has been requested.

her eftorts

progress to the point

where she might be able to

influence leftist

writers

in their efforts to establish the CLE in Mexico (para 7 c o1

LILINK memo) Headquarters should be forwarded your

ideas on why and how

LICOOKY-1 should be used as an active MHSPAWN agent, and another

ammendment will be required for this role.

ANDRIETTE will discuss this operation with the Station during

4.

bis

TDY.

5.

In view if the restricted OA which contines KUBARK'S

association with LICOOKY-1,

it is Important that Headquarters remain

awnre of any unusual activity in her personal life which might affect

her stcurity or the granting of amendments to ber OA for individual

operations.

Therefore, we would appreciate your keping us informed

on a more timely basis of any undertakings such as the recruitments

for menbership

in the AEM described in reference.

Distribution:

Orig

&1 - COS, Mexico City

Ernest A. LUSBY

ilecolig

(Be dis)

8. 1-124/3

CROSS FIREFERCE TO

MISPATCH E-SOFIA AND BUMPCH

IMM# 13902

,....

B- 2012758111

SECRE

T

C-TE

18 August 1965

HOSF: I NUMPER

•50-6-124/3

201-2788.11

RI

Chrono

CI/OA

Bustos-Yidela: nca

0P01 9G

_AHE

1507

t: t95riut

CI/OA

AUG 1365

I deant Stan

till tsi

2139.

---

## Page 52

PRIOR TO FILING

1. Fill in Sect

2.

significant action taken or commenis requir.

ing preservation.

FROM:

RIDiAN

SECRET

(WH: N FILED IN)

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

INSTRUCTIONS

TO: ACTION BRANCH

If file no and title shown are not proper.

insert proper hile no bolow and forward

document to RID/AN

PHOFER FILE NO

TO ALL ADORESSEES

FILL IN SECTION I ON BACK IF APPROPHIATE

COMMENTS

TO

DATE

OFFICERS

ROOK

NO

RECE VED

Gary Detached

Walker

Hallüwell

• i

!::

911/113

saint

10

• 1

12.

wH/1/se

16

FALLEN

FiliK

16

-

2111

intead.

sing

RID. FI

ДАСІ

FOUES

ABSTRACT

1 REDE 8

FILE TITLE

FILE DUUBER PRIMARY CODE

50 - 6-129/3000

---

## Page 53

CLASSIFICATION

DISPATCH

SECRET

Chief, Wl Division

INFC.

PROCESSING ACTION

MARKED FOR INDEXING

XXX NO INDEXINO REQUIRED

MIY QUALIFIED DE

AN JUDGE INDERIN

FROM

Chlet or Station, Mexico City.

I MICROFILES

CLaCOX Project Progress leport for the Period 1 April - 30 June 1965

Action Required: None

References

?: 134-48 02: 1e try ed

18 June 1965

Attached is the LICOOKY Project Progress Report for the period

1 Apsll - 30 June 1965.

Put Lashy.

WillardC curTIs

•.

Attachment:

Progress Report (Orig & 2), h/w

Distribution:

3 - Chief, WID, w/att

2 - Files

Cos late o

•j COPY

DISPATCH SYAJO ANO MUMBER

FAMA-26, 7.57

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

50-6-129/3

DATE

29 July 1965

HOS FILE NUMBER

50-6-129/3

---

## Page 54

SECHC!

LICOOKY Project Progress Report

1 April - 30

June 1965

1.

AMMA 26757

29Juy65

Production

a. Beginning in early April, LICOOKY-1 was instructed to devote as nuch

time as necessary to her work in the Mexican Writers Association (AEM

Asociación de Escritores de Mexico), LICOOKY-1 has been almost totally

responsible for the AM's development and present organization and is

a member of its

Loard of Directors, which enables her to attend all

Joard meetings. This assignment was the result of KUBARk's interest in

the activities of the European Community of Hriters (COMES - Comunite

Europea degli Scrittori) and

its efforts to estaolish a Latin irerican

branck.

to As operational dispaich covering LICUOKY-l's activities in the AEM

in detail was prepared and forwarded. Tro HMMs were prepared covering

the organization of the AEN and Juan Rulfo's planning in conjunction

with Carlos Pellicer Cémara (not to be confused with Carlos Menuel

pellecer), Migual Angel Asturias, Arnoido Urfila Reymai, and Benjamin

Carrißr for the Congress of the Community of Latin Auerican Writers:

(CLE - Conunidad Latiroacericana de Escritoresi to be held in Mexico

* City in 1966.

c. LICOOKY-1 sees Juan Rulfo regularly and reets once a week with

Pellicer, which enables her to keep current on their plans and activities.

do LiCOUKí-l provided information on ESilMi-l prior to his recruitmert

which supperented that given by LINLUCk. (LICUOSY-1 recommended against

the direct recruitrent of bSLIMi-l for reusons which later proved to

be true.)

e.

Licocky-l provided a detailed

profile on Manuel German Parra' and

has

an ofen

chanrel to hin for future contacts and

assessien:.

1. L:COuxY-l bas provided inforration or the autivities of Francisco

Villagran Kracer, who is

now livirg

in Mexico, Fe

and his wife and

LICOOkY-1 exchange visits at each others apa trerts ard they atteaded

#o 681888807-56757

SECRET

iS COPY

58-6-199/5

---

## Page 55

one dinner party given by LICOOKY-l which was also attended by Victor

-Alba, Djuka Julius, Mario jonteforte Toledo, and Dr. Frank Tannenbaur.

& LICOOKY-1 continues suppling operational information on Margarita

Paz Paredes, Djuka Julius, and other persons of interest to the Station.

k. The Station KUCAGE officers are now considering a plan suggested

by LICOOKY-1 which would help sabotage any effort to take the AEM into

the CLE.

¿. LICCOKY-2 continues to report on the travel of Coamunists or leftists

Iron Central America to the Communist bloc. During the perioù covered by

thie repert, he reported on 1l individuals, all of whom traveled to the

Soviet Union or Ecstern Europe.

2. Operations

a. LICOOKY-1 will continua to cover the activities of those planning

for the CLS Congress, the developments within the hai, and will maintain

her contacts with Central American Communists and exiles in Mexico City.

This latter task has not been

as successful as was originally planned

because her access has been limited for the reasors outlined in Para-

graph 5 of Reference A.

b. LICOOKY-1 has been given the following requirements in regard to

the ABM:

(1) To prepare complete assessments on all the influential AM leaders.

(2)

To provide a detailed account of LICUuKY-l's aufluence (leverage)

on them as a basis for;

(5) Using the ASM, when the time comes, to keep Rulfo el al from

forming an affiliate in Mexico, preparatory to the CLE Congress.

(4) To continue developing a close frierdship with Rulfo and Pollicer.

(5) To continue her activities in the AM in a manner to enhance her

stature and increase the leaders' confidence in her as one who

gets things don=.

c. LiCoÜKi-2 is not used la any capacity other than reporting travel

inforcation

to

which he has natural secess.

Sivi

---

## Page 56

Se0:

3.

Security

No Change

4.

Personnel

No Change

5.

Problens

No Change.

6. Effectiveness

No Change

7. Plans

•a. As will be noted from paragraphs 1 and 2 above, ¿¡COOKY-l's artivities

have bees partially redirected from wholly KUFIRE to ¡CAGE activities.

b. TIere are no plans to enarge LICOOKY-2's present task.

SECRET

---

## Page 57

SECRET

(WHEN FILLED IND

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

IRSIRUCTIOAS

# PE

#-8$

PRIOR TO FILING

Lad to on hace Deach 599185

award to RID:

Lestoy, tront gover sudit, bales it records

simificant acton taken or:com

Tents tequi

= preservation.

FROM:

TO: ACTION BRANCH

Il tile no. and title shown are not proper, in

sert proper file no. below and forward doc

timent to RID/AN.

PROPER FILE NO.

RID/

TO: ALL AÔDRESSEES

FILL IN SECTION 1 ON BACK IF APPROPRIATE

COMMENTE

TO

ROOM

DATE

RECEIVED I TORNADEED

OFFiCER'S

wailine

isufman

23/n6:

tickle thank

Copy Detached

writ

Machise

€.

we; Buss

16 AỤU 1565

iTisos

Atresae-13902171869

SUSPENSE. 23

AUG 65

11.

13.

1=.

15.

18:

i7.

FILE TITLE

PO'H

Fio.

10 - 4=129/3

---

## Page 58

TÒ

INFO.

DISPATCH!

Chief, WD

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

PROCESSING ACTION

ARORCED FOR INDEXING

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

ONIA QUALIFIED DESI

CAN PUDGE INDEXING

" MICROFILAR

Chief of Salon,

SWART LICONY-l's Participation in she Organizetion and

A Direciton as ile l'exicar. Welters' issociation

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

1. Abeached is a LILINK Unit Necorendus conceming LICOCHY-l's

perticipation in the orgnnization and cirection of the l'exican Writers'

Association (A3:).

The mero outlines the Station's fluns for using

LICOOKY-1 asd the Az! for MISPAri purposes.

This citore will de closely cooriinaica wiür the LIRIN Projcci,

through which partical (eut indeperdens) acciors micht ce taken vis-e-vis

the MIN! (RAUNCLE is a menDer) and selecied l'exican intellectuals to

supplene:. due LICOCirY-J/AEl! opersuici.

Feedquerters corents

is requestes to initiate this action.

villariC. aziss

Atteciseat:

l'enoraria, es steiod, s/s

Distibution:

3 - ChIE:, ND v/st:

CROSS INFERENCE TO

CS COPY

DISPATCH SYMBOS ANO NUNSER

E34-22,31

CLASSIFICATION

SECHE:

CArE

1 - 6-129/3

16 dily 2005

MOS FILE ALIASIN

50=1-19913

---

## Page 59

1. The first steps to organize the l'exican Writers' Associi-

tion (AEM - Asociación de Escritores de México) were taker

in February of 1364 after Bartolome Costa-Anic and the Zaplana

Bookstores published

a proposal in the metropolitan newspapers;

offering to estabilsh a new series of library prizes and urging

the Mexican

writers to join an association that could provide

material benefits for its members. The first meeting of the

AEl was helu on l1 August 1961. For sore time the AIM remained

as insignificant as other similar organizations which had been

organized from time to time,

such as the society of Literary Au-

thors and The Society of Friends of Mexican Books which never

achieved any effectiveness or respectability. Mexico's established

and well known writers have always shunned these organizations.

2. LICOOKY-1 became interested in the AEll through her friendship

with Costa-Amic and saw the possibility of building the AEl into

an organization which would include the middle of the road and

right wing authors who had been systematically boycotted since

the Lazaro Cárdenas' regime when Narciso Bassols, & member of the

Communist Party, was Minister of Education.

3. LICOOKY-I began a one man campaign of recruiting relatively

well known right wing writers who could

not be considered mediocre

or nonentities. As LICOOKY-l's campain began to succeed it be-

came easier to recruit the nore important roiters of Mexico cover

Ing the whole political spectrum. In October of 1964, LICOOKY-1

SECRET

IS COPY

50-6-129/3

---

## Page 60

persuaded Carlos Pellicer Cánara, well known lexican poet, to

join the AEll. It then became easier to get other well known

writers to join.. In all LICOOKY-l recruited about 80 of the well

known Mexican writers to come into the AEM. At this time Licooky-

I knew nothing of the European Community of Triters (COMES -

Comunité Europea degli Scrittori) or plans to form a Community

of Latin American Writers (CLE - Comunidad Latinoamericana de

Escritores).

4. LICOOKY-l has been appointed to the Board of Directors of

the AEl which permits LICOOKY-l to attend all Board Meetings and

she

is relied upon to do all details of organization and planning

the AEM projects to assist the Mexican writer which is the ultimaie

objective of the AE!!.

5. In this work LICOOKY-l has developed friendships with the

leaders of the AEM Including Fellicer and Juan kulfo, both of

whom were Mexican delegates to the COlES Conference held in

Geneva, Switzerland during the winter of 1905. bellicer has in-

vated LiColkli to bas nome ard ronters with her on All grobiers,

usually once : week. Sue has fren entrance to Rulfo's office at the

Instituto Indirenista and he las visited LICCOXY-l's apartment.

6. The station nopes that through LIcocht-i the diM can be lised

to defeat any attempts by COuls through lis affiliate ClE to form

---

## Page 61

pioncg

a Unity of liriters

(UE - Unidad de Escritores) in Merico as

well' as sabotaße the CLE Cougress

to be held in

Hexico in 1966.

%. To this ond, one of LICOOKY-l's principal objectives is to

solidity her ucceptance in the AEM and she has been given the

inmediate tauks of:

a. Preparing complete assessments and personality data on

all of the influential AEM leaders.

b. Deteruining IICOOKY-l's influence on them as a basis

{01;

c.

Usinl: the AEM, when the time comes, to keep Pellicer

and Rulfo from forming the UE affiliate in lexico, prepara-

tory to the coming CLE Congress.

d. LICOOKY-I is to continue her work in the AEM and to try

to become a close contident of Pollicer, Rulfo and other 1n-

fluential leaders of the AEX.

8. The Station plans

to closely watch the development of the

AEM and the plans

and

activitles of iellicer, kulfo, Benjamin

Carrión, Miguel Angel Asturias and others who may participate in

plenning

for the

forthcoming CLE Congress.

SEone-

---

## Page 62

DISPATCH

GLASSIFICATION

SECRET

12:13

PROCESSIMO ACTINDA

MARKED FOR INCH NIANG

10

Chief of Station, Mexico Clty

INFO

MICROFILMÉD

1903

NO INDERING RIGUINtO

ONIY DUALIAIRS DILE

CAN JUDGE INDISIATO

FROM

Chief, EL

THRU:

Chiefs.

DOC. MICHO. SER

MICHOFILAR

SUBUACT

& NYXIS/DHLET/LICOOKY/Operatione

ACTION REQUIRED, REFERENCES

LICOOKY/A Contact With Subject 08 201-12972

ACTION REQUIRED: Further assessment data requested per para. a

REFERENCE

: UNMA - 25546, 12 March 1965

1. We vere especially pleased to receive the LICOOKY/!

target survey on Subject (of 201-12972) and to learn that the

Station bas a controlled asset who enjoys direct, non-profee

sional,

social contact with Subject.

As the Station is aware,

Subject's extra-curricular activitier have become a matter of

Increasing CI corcern to & number of Stations in Latin America.

However, none of them appears to have assets

in sufficiently

close contact with Subject to determine what be is actually

doing and for whom

He realize, of course, that LICOOKY/1 pro-

bably will not be able to shed

any light

In this regard, but

we hope that her contact can be

exploited to provide

the type

of personal operational assessment data on Subject which we

have largely lacked up to now.

Our information on Subject has so far

ing on the point of iis suspected intelligence affiliation and

susceptibility to recruitnent Nonetheless,

we regard LICOOKY/l's views regarding Subject as objective and

During future contacts,

we request that she con

centrate on discerning Subject's persoual attitudes and weak

nesses e exploitable vulnerabilitles.

Should Subject bu trang

ferred laterally to another location in the West, we would 11k0

to try from the very outset of his assignment to undertake the

type of gradual, long-teru developnental contact which LICOOKY/l

suggested.

To helpus plan for the selection of an appropriate

this purpose,

we belleve it would be useful for

LICOOKY/I to prepare a personality profile on the type of indi

vidual to whom subject is most ilkely to respond and who could

Rope to rein Subject's friendship and confidence with

least difficulty or disadvantage.

Oswald S. LAFAVERS

Distritution:

Orig. &1 + COS

CROSS REFERENCE iO

TIAR 100 CA SEMBER

ERiE

b-201-12972

13634

SECRET

#STE 18. May. 1965 -

50-6-129/3

OtiCE

FE/YA

PIGRATIO

I dms

1217

Internal:

+1 - RID/FI

1 - AH/1

3 - EE/YA

L/EE/YA

1IU5

---

## Page 63

14-00000 mist s la no

DISPATCH

Cries, i Divlsion

ELASSIFICATION

CE.

PROCESSING ACTION

MARKED FOR INDEXING

NO INDEXINO REQUIRED

OHLY QUALIFIED DESE

CAN JUDGE INDEXINO

MICROFILAL

FIREA

CaLe? ca Station, Mexico CLiEl

Mait 11000NY Project. Progress Report for larch 1965

ACTION REQUIRED - REFEKENCES

References:

A.

1a4-2506o, 11 Parch, 1955.

B.

10es-13437, 15 March 1909.

- name tene

fer 21118505098

Attached 15 the LICOOKY Project Progress Repori for the month of

Marc: 1905.

In activity of tis Froicct surire te reporting perioi is

covered in ducall in an

extort to comoly with the insuructions contained in

paregraph i of reference-i.

Unless ocheraise required the rext Progress Report will cover the

perio: i April through 30 June 1359.

By that time the blilik Unit hopes It

will have a secretary to lielp with its

"paper" load.

3.

The "juanita" referred to ir parngroph le of attachrent, la 1dencicel

witt.

juana sic LARIOS, previnusly reporter in 17XI-2772.

tryirs to locate cor adress and prone number in order to be able to provide

tr: Cuntecale Ste:lon wich bore Infomaiion on this cross.

in.

It 1s requested that Headquersers index the followird nmes in the

context in walch arcy appear here:

¿OrEO *CARRAIN, laria Teresa TErES de

*FILIO, LUiS *ARENAL, GuillerDo *ROUSSET

Benda,

ésine #TAVAR-O," Station tas no traces on laverro, ile brothers Fillo,

nor on the pseudong= Carrenza.

Willan: C. CUkOIS

ATR4C2CC: Procress Repori (0-16 i 2), kiw

Dist-faution:

MICROFI MED

APR 1 5 1955

COS MICRO. FER

CROSS REPERINCE TO

CLASSITICATION

DECRAT

6-12:13

OA18

7 Murll 1335

HGS HIE NUNCIA

Oe=12015

---

## Page 64

SECRET

LICirY Projoct

Proctoss 9:"0rt

March,

1065

TRACHGAT 20: HARA-25798

7f

MICROFILMES

APR 1 5 1965

DOC. MICRO. SER

1. Production

me lISAll Fronet has not croduced any information rarerte

dimir. this

raortire period. Dirtay this period LIcouly-l Fes

pon mrontin: on hor sativitice and veraire as

follows:

•ll lores t1rr119

Cuateralar 937 care aparesched

cartolane Certaiie cout printin: almors latter to.»

intritutea in Gratule. inan cris occurs see rill be

matirant antails.

Cana Getino Go Hintel irrel

"natarian

currilla

г.01

in exile in

entati-nai tat torallapots vi-tor

as t1.

identity and entain tre nirets

3-1

a cour: er

gers

cut out

-5-0

0111

d; rising"

lat-erior stone is is

SECRET

no one # 3-9-4-21738°

10.80,=8/3

---

## Page 65

td-innon

SECRET

in contict :ith "i"u=l Poralla and an srertly a Custer-

elen livine in Ciudnd "ilalio ino is a part of the com=o

evste: hotwern tho Gisteralan Commanist aril's in texico

and Porty lonlers in Chataualn.

e. i=l es tirues renorting roomot study date or tar-arita

Iz Perars air Diuks Julius.

c. 1-1 cormlaret insis tirret sturiee or trelia ¿ntizlo iador,

r...

oxioon sn'urroion to dus-rio, ini Alederire 20723

lneanéto t9r rlvicen artsazdor to Danars.

L-l is -rerpring o tarcot stusy on "ieter "rckidi,

ar at-

vi:or

the souroter:

of

iosdir!.

int tes eus iritrost?n?

tinont es rutly ae rosit'1.

or

irroste "aa. ro.

Corrur cta?.? 1l afiolees in toscow

letoi too d e trorcinte rieitien i9 tre Eoralgr Celira.

.'. Il is sttortino io tiortify ll Micera-usa puerrillar toü

livir-in meieo ard iait- esslates ie iiloree torses

iirega eri to mt a lire or troir actiritia:

1o tal 1: 1is0 atiem tir: in icinticü a troii of iertral

imorisans, Snivaioronns, ic.ratuong eno fiateraiars,

•;"o

ere mathtr with luig Miriel 20r122.

w:eter

toil ine n er inctrreted to "r? mri lei-

щ = 160

at7r

ai diretro rir

leaeni ireiviti'?o

lotal has toee tie courde g' infore-tior dirr beotieed th.

ro doitinn0.

o-ier -otae??9 PoroI-i hes

hann1ad97e 1aad.1es

oprltte. deooe

SEGRET

---

## Page 66

SECRET

corturint lendark perconality 1-

rexico for the past several yourse or o serular lasis.

Ies? Brueltas lias jecon? ar alce nilo and for the isst

3eteral h9i1s t9s been living with an Indian firl. irs:

sain with tre tenthers inturk,

and cor ayaali0 and or.

cHarger tearine to tre, Paybaltas there faires

3450

te mann the Deo mars theme oot MClion in And Cut as the

country, dosa Barbeltas war the contact man batwar this

Ers: an is if uninos and lateleeral she wore ina

eate da smile Sullier ol outset Ganda greened of

•marice Carios Perias dinner, toch troun Eurunists,

out of tie countri, There tas it mraculatin that tils

could rescue von tusband cror trtir irflu-

-cott ale camaatione die drese ar roberous latter

isor are tavarro,

to ties eF

contre and

t:910399110

ot hors or ine carasties

intrico.

SECRET

---

## Page 67

74-00000

vastedn dsis

SECRET

The lettrr 6a

592.02

strtion itere

it ijll reach

the aroçso lonlein eutloritiec. This muy not work, tut 1?

the inforition proriied lv trr. Boreltas is true ar?

"rour is orrested, nitliciti plus additiorel helr fron ire

statlodo nublicity car rooste a dampriae roendal freirst

tr. F.i'

?l eei toenid iti molle inscrucderei tra certira

to cuttined in moor?o???.

tiuoi2 murertod oa le jurel tret trjth firrto

"cail?t.10rd r rictet to

sun ton?. Corta Sica cor

"n tate te menepion to domle -sai as ito ina

ci:h9t .09 ?0r -relel fro- Sar

to tarico Citr. Cr

Perah 1? Foerotd Cillee Caritt iora

Ha in tho eiti ape ped

not uege tie torhet tr6 her ion jo to Garora Carron Tosez

de iranato te erapailal to turire of al terah, Mierato

allci aien de seonnal coldae e regarrtion for éemaon

do lapmitole paturn to isy ous in lirril.

I? tey adiaatiio dl thin miere cold do remart in

Tonreto tout tiogo dof tane little tonget lntelia Cha

1017

hin tione iee ro

eilttttion cruer tiet 193-l0 iere

rot tetiii

rais

01d.850.d

7601300915

tte"t

•. Cerati0т.

?0011919t119÷1

iroian tchen. lra.-ias

:locrino ou:t

iajitire

in0.:": 8- 198.8

J.-i!

o ,o=

SECRET

---

## Page 68

SECRET

ront three norths perio?. for each metin, she prepares on

"activities report". Ir this reart an outlines ter activities

for the proceedin- rest, the laste the was workine on, the reople

sh. 835

in contoet with and the recults. She alro liots tre taslis

she will work on arine the comino set, sto roonle she will see,

.:c.

In1 is rancicorn in this work cinco she has to control

nior ter contacts and ing to is tirele discreet in tor olictire

o: tr: footro tart times her rierie

to airy ri: ce during a rivin

conversatir:

tn.re is

ro ovenir. to brin" ur the subisct sre wistes

to circuss.

• Security

Fock !ICo it and gunar to roco-ria tie cucurity irgli-

cotior. of toir work. trition ire curioor rott their cass officero.

Ma: Follor their inctructione comeruin thi cocurity of their

troin los been no evidice of no unaqual scurity croti.

Fordin

rise. to tot to os a crrarin, tise of opiratios, in tiat she

are there, the in certire toy

corincisint

attairs

310n9: 0091a1 811: 1-1, 5:125

SECRET

---

## Page 69

14-00000

SECRET

1s ar intelligent oman, and in all air motiras she has a?999r?

-ature ond attertive. She has foot roant ord relialle in bor

re:tires. she liscurses her roller calrly and essepts instruction

n criticice without arpurinto she has resconded i:ll to irstruit-

lors and has worked hard in tryine to irprovn tur sporting. She

arpears to he mali sajasted to her orvironment thich ic rost ex

trely tryin: et timoc.

In discione concorin- too com unist aud lertist roverants,

she eritted trat ot one tie sla tis incluered to their id'o.e.,

kud

ps che tad

older

moon of their actiritiss

und personalitios,

sue ter iost all risest for them. She caid trit

she ha? leor cool'd !! Fiirl Costro in tic carly days

one to?

tinunht

he would 1e 5o02

tor

but as ovarte bare deviloned

her isteronoi.

loor oririrally. She alse cor-art-3

that in ion. tolke with

trilok, letti poored

ion ones to the

allans of the she maid liardo? to

n1?

she bat anneared circer: in

staircati.

Bagcars

te booed

or.

for li. end

not on proris

crite.

ine case officer

br.=

let to then. too Got

i.??

1:.1r..

regret 554

lis amore is lirito, is

estimerts

out conecirtiora?'

5. Problame

79 49:.:91

SECRET

---

## Page 70

SECRET

LICCOr!-3 adritted tri eccese to har communist contacts her?

har leen hurt as a ranult of her indi? casociation with lInater.

at

tiro po nublicly trole dith the party. da ar axargle o?

this, "Iruol torallo cold tor tret

Ostiegrar hai referred to LINEUCI:

as Monaries"

of the party oni turt ho lad hoen reprirand

a: "Or

s. "efectironere

rimartine for

nontt

rot

Information Perirts, it las kent t!e

=t- tion

miro of theictiriti

in her reaticity r?

?:s.

199:08:56)?

noncorrin her taole os Outl.nod in tro

erite lo linite to tie tirren

tarrot,

?. 21aa9

ver te to tirl in po airent to trerger the cantiti al "alit."

c?

nelletion.

---

## Page 71

DISPATCH

SECRET

10

PANCESSNS ACTION-

MA-KED FOr

* IRISHINS

002000 + =

INFO.

Chief, EE Civision

DREIT iNALIFIEDE. i

FROM

Chief. WH Division

Chief of Station, Mexico City

MICROFILAA

SUBJECT

СТСОСКУ

DMLET/LICOOKY/Operational -- Target Study of Ojuka JULIUS (201-12972)

ACTION REQUIRED - RE'ERENCES

LICOOKY has been asked to presare tarree studies on the

officlal Yugoslavs whom she knows. Forwarded herewith is her

first effort.

to a more resent report frun ilCOOky-l, she

began giving English

lessons to ilaria JullUs on 2 March.

LICCORY-

further reported that she spoke with Diuka on the telephone on

20 February 1965, and Djuke : old her that he had been very

worrled that he might have heart trouble since he had recently

experienced brachycardia, uneven pulse beat,

and extreme anxlety.

However, the doctor tolá Djuka the week before that his heart.

showed

no damage and that it was simply a case of "nerves".

Further information from LICOOKY-l on the JULlUses will

be forwarded as received.

Willard C. CliATiS

inclosure:

Target Study

Distribution:

t=1.7.

CROSS REFERENCE TO

DISPATCH SYMEN AND NUMBER

HMMA - 25546

¿LASSIFICATION

SECRET

DATE

12 March 1955

HOS FILE NUMBER.

201-12972 (FFN: P-7910)

---

## Page 72

SECRET

Targat Study of Julius Jjuica

Ja. isdress

jubjeit rento aborteent : 33 at l'arlang iscobado 692. The

awltchbeard number of this apurtrent buildine 1a 25-13-34. to

mad subject, diot lbe switchboard number ans ast. for extensiou

S3• He pays mopronisately i45CO pecos (120.00 Ucc- for Chia

apartment.

2. Physical rescription

Subjoet appears to be about 50 ye,rs old. He 1e.

not good-

100kINg.

medium heiget,

thin crowbish hair,

very round face,

lorgo nose, and chulby figure, source has beon unsble to deter-

mine hia date of birth

or place of birth other than that he was

born In Yugoslavlo. Fe is of lungerion descent.

3. Religion

sutfect 18 hall Jealeh. thile he bae no obvious rolledova

Inclination he identities hirsoll so a Jer.

4. Squeation

Source has never

board him scenk of attending any partie

ular schoola or univeraltles. Fron hla speoch and writing and

logical approuch to problers to

appoors to base & hich degree

of Intelligence, Subject apoake ingliah anj anloh fluently.

5. Military

Subject mos active 1a partisan flehting during, Horld far Il

In lugonlavia. Le hos expreosed hla gratituds and appreciation

of the critiah role durine this mar. to talloves the iritlas

saved his life when te ras wounded tehind the Cercan lines sud

was rescued by idliar Corrandos who took him to Italy ubere

he was hospitalliod.

6.

Profeasion

jubject do a nesscaper correspondont for joltica, a

Contualat forty neuspoper in Yugoslavia. defore corl:5 to

¡onlco he sas located iu cabinaton, a.d. le does his miltlog

---

## Page 73

14-00000

national politics, ie obteins his Inferration through poresl

restorch, Intorviema, and tradios Irformation with other correa

pondenta.

7 Farily

Subject's nother livea In Yu oslavla. ie has children by

a prévious sorrlage who alao live la lugoslavla. lla cresent

wife la an extrerely attractive mosan who is 15 or 20 yeera

bia Junior. for auro 13 Maris and she and formerly a menter of

• lugoslar opera company. Mario hopes to retura to a career

no an opera singer.

the hopes they will be reansigned to ash

Ington where abe feels there de a freater opportunity to study

•ad reenter such a career.

3. Finnelal Status

source says that over the three yeors she has known Subjc?

and hio uifo, Mia olio has alsays concented on hos 11ttle noney

thoy have lo 115s on. she corploles that the cost of renting

furnished apartents (1300-1800 pesus) and do much she had

nothing loft with otte to buy cloches.

b.

Subject rebor has any pocket coney and several tines on

hia returo frou prips to Cuba he didn't have taxl corey for the

fare fron the mirport to hig hore. source has, rosever, sev r

anemo of subject corrowing money or buying on credito cource

describes bis as definitely the tyre to

This Irck of ronsy does not apperr to disturo bie since he

exhibito no laterest in astortos possessione.

9. Hobbies.

subject has no Intorest In any particular sports or other

comor bobbles. Ho liker good rusic and the company and cor.-

ormation of other suitere. For relaxation be liker to go t:

Moreovoca whore do coo sit aod colas lo the sun. a general

he seera to bo quite in love sita life Itself.

10. Erlends

no la not narro:-aladed about the politica, nationality.

or raco of the persona ulth shon le associates. lo cocaidere

warl Mindall, corres-oodent of U.S. iowa and orld Report ara

reputad to to an extreme right-aloger, as hie friend. Anotrer

•lase frioal 19 Sorris Fosenburge an AP correspondent Lo

oxico mace milo in luposler-Jealon and a daughter of «

---

## Page 74

SECRET

Jugoslar who flad the country when

the Cordunists took over.

Jubject la close to Mario Monieforte Toledo whom be adcines

personally and respocto as being very woll laforsad. sabjeet

also regards John. Tettle and Dudley

froust as close friands.

Then Subject net ii. Frank Tannenboum at the party glven bj

source a couple of weeka ago ho made every effort to estabilah

a Iriendly rapport. (Then jubject had beard toot Tannenboun

uno coring to "exico be told source he was axtresely andlous

to meet bim and mould be

sost appreciative it source coiid

arrange an iotreduelion.)

bo

Subjuct probably sees Ernesto Madero about once & seok.

They run into esch other at receptions and subject sometiu:s

vialta racere at his office shere be goos for shra or back

ground esterinl. source doesn't knus of their baring visited

rach other sochally in their homes.

11. Enemies

Eource has never heard Jubject speak of anyone in a

derrogatory wanner nor has she beard of anyone in her circle

of acquaintances apeak in unfriandly terme of bie.

12. Attitudes

subject has never sabibited any blas toward peraone

because

of their raca, religion, color, or nationality. He has

never been

vocally critical of capitallam or an ardent defender

of courunise. He has no phobla against hrericans. io is hoping

ho will be reassigned to

• ashington. le has often expresaed

his airiration of isabington as a cultural conter and aparently

enjoys the wide rango of contacts

avallable there. (Tannonboun

told source that during lio conversation with iubjoch, Subject

bad talked in terms of critlelan of Fidel Castro and Cuba la

general.)

13. Habits

Thore 15 no arilence that iubject in Ioterested Ir gambllog,

to do tbe ion juan tit alonevor he his the opcortualty.

14. ipproach for Fecruiteent

source doubta to could be recruited as a controlled sient

by a rootero intolilgenco service, particularly on a 0ns-abot

Duals, He probably coull not be compronisen throug! his son

Jumn bablis. Fe probabby sould laugh at aay threate of black

---

## Page 75

SECRET

albe hide be feels the cinch of lack of money, he coulda? bi

boujht 11 lt seant a clear confliet of 1donliae and native löyalti

to his couatry.

say approach would have to to eade eradiaily, ever a long

tsee, bosed on a high intellectual plana dod mitual friendahip.

during which tims he couls be reeducated ideologically. There

is ne certaiatz that this approach sould be succasatu

Co:

Source belleves ruct of his knouledge gould be tapped through

wueh the same approach described

in the paragrart. luceilately

otose but on the casts of trading information. It could have to

appens to hir that he ma getting

as mach in return

as he

alriago This peraon probably ahould be a recogulzed profeasional

journallat.

15. Conticued isaessrent

Marla has expressod a desire la inprove her ingliah, shich

Is non extrerely linited, About three weeks ago she asked sourde

11 she would help her. The lessone didn't atart tanediately as

Marla becare ill with

the "erlope". The lesaone sere to bogin

other the last of this nees (1a februnry 65) or the firot of

next week (15 February). jource plans to beet uith Varia too

or three times a weak at jaria's hone, is a result of these

lessons, soure: nill continos recorting fleus on jutject aa

she acquires them.

34253

---

## Page 76

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

PROCESSING ACTION

282K570 8539 894X1N47

Chief, WH Division

iNFO.

FROM

'NO INDEXING REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED DESE

CAN NOGE INDEXING

Onter of station, Mexico ClifE

SUREL LICOOKY Project Progress Réport for December 1964 - Febrary 1965.

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

Action: None, FYI.

Reference: HMIA-24990, 15 December 1964.

Attached Is a LICUOKY Project Progress Repori covering the period

7 December 1964 to 28 February 1965.

Reletive to paragraph 4b, Chief ra Sietion authorized the purchase

of 40, 000 pesos worth of casic seconü hand furniture to assist in establish-

Ing a base from which LICCUrY-l could operate. Sane of this was acquired

at better than mariset prices from latalie S. MICHNOT who bad an excess of

some items. Station retains ownership of the fumiture.

• =

1Or

Wille's C. CUSTIS

ATTACHMENT:

Progress Report, h/ (3 coples)

Distribution:

chiel, HiD, w/atto i;

• • Mle

CHOSS REFERENCE

DISSA: DA STASOL ANO NUMBER

F39A-25560

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

• 11 Varch 1965

HOS fILE MeMeti

5C-6-129/3

---

## Page 77

14-00000

SECRET

4:5 55 HMMA-25568

1.

?.

littY troiect tro-rsor "onort

PIeAehan

a1e 21 Firuary 65

Frig:ction

#8818184 25560

I1Mar65

E..

TICO.HY-1 U.

tho srurcs s ti information sonteired ir

ma's salé,u47ã, durs, ead 0520. iel has ragtaran tureat

stacies.

"errarite j'e- Drradse

m Eil!? Tuliun.

dptiona.ly,

tas eroutded ottar information oe coor-tirna!

L-1

ralre.

i.r:

exa-.le

i3

the idonticic-tion of con "gaanita", a catuort borween tr.

2onl usecueda Fileio and tietur tmnunl Cotiarrea

"ar! i",

irs.

aiftel terice Cuticrro.

"'lieriten

i==

909289 COUrá9r

•tan

raitierrer toe

susturgter sor urist: trabilling fitioon

"exion and rnatemle.

LT ?T 3 11r111l1 e0.0rtee e9 the tra?l of dul1th

Firpato's ne-hae, farios 2:207

and on the pienodt trocol

ef

aná lis frriny to trses Pica

=.4:1

"Oe: to Mecocäo ie later

neortr? the carerilation

cê this trip.

bnerpticn"

₴.

rroullll'e firat teleletoganert On the clars,

ei crrivitifg oe

irt.rtlore

dentral-iroricon comiunist

e•t lertiste iito

rosisa in

•exieo.

Cie

lee als la.r

egsirnad the toex ot

s.2-

rarino torret stulise oo rorsecalitiog of intorist to the

jtriion.

oesetle tt! !.

"c"rinrys e torrst otudt en ficter

Fai*:

Sto i: airo rr'torin informatior o?

"-fler,

x-iêe 0? ?.r10г

narcts

end on

mtioriti bini le.

ierton cortaete.

Ra1nn0l0i5"

hayic.,t ..

Eruee: 1065 for

Fau camtariet:

saire.

rito t ttio

lairt ir

eikitior

to lariontatttars: "r.

Patt ist door,

siata

iilin" rri his

mieo terieo coniid

-?.. IOrr2,

I-ntals.?.

^et:t . ?.11

'—o:

"=":.

..".=

-eriotdlanitis

-.int

ert.iir.

"-risa

gilrilr cctrirt:

hclenea Yotttor!

т.: Or. Tr:lr

"arrto"?

:.

T-l nas

ErT-.

ietrirciiin.

-hl..

i:-.

tmsmerits

ü:"?"

tate"s??

=.?.

"IPein:

o. ..?

i : wi1!

fiwnitudi ei

sirto

RARRESCE

.t.=e

hngir= dirriu

SECRET

:tilitmra25600

As COP:

atell:

---

## Page 78

SEORE!

3.

LIC00K'-2 cortiruss his task of rerorti--

th:

travel

of Central

Arericsr

comrurists and loftists through his

contact

witt

Judith Forr-to.

c.

LILINE- Handles HICUURi-l End LILIUK-5 Fanales LaCCorY-2.

security

Handllae thege ante agognate no unusual secarity rtsk. .

4.

Problems

to torniti

no dey before

-eter tevere -029

rocritalino dit trercrial arouori..

cornlient?÷

ti an altere:

4207

adriristorad.

te=?

•rol-na. or

& Pagari e pri roturres

to tie hoc-ital

fer

5.

ratura do ite contr era bad beng liviri in chrap

nerriors,

finallo tee rapire caost

igna ..

Far

ahare

Vocire roor.

'-1

-?

4?011.

:.1r0ll.9-

a cot

fro

fri.r'

B-u0is

nar

iiines:

tant-it

tune txiotes ad cortributsd

e without e "ss? thore cio

rou!s

invite ::

corrects

non thoms the

introna.

Th .

istion

Fas

mlnd per furriet hoy anerg-t rich i:

h. hos not recoporgi tor railtt

ar.+

"s a bogo ci caration".

•ragult of teii..

pixel 390, ah.

•han tbl: to reostablist

conteots.

c.

Iter"i-d tuo not priorion ong prohleas.

"reininr

rent

gra?

non raporti...

re tritto et rarerte click tre tien critto con lock

staticlo

t:÷

SECRET

---

## Page 79

1.:

"IC-O"il bos als0 boor 'ver irotruction in

paration of target etudira.

there-

tina c!

netortiva

pree-tivo t: this

treining on? there tre hour a ported impo:sant in

e. Both ironyal and a are continuaili coutioned concerning

cacurity

their ethod: of

obtainir.

information and meetiers.

Wlans

LIcourt°s truinine alie be continuo: and will la pressed

to enlarge

Fer

aren

roracts.

LICou:ina il1 sminus in roport on

travel ne to res done

i. the

Past.

SECRET

---

