104-10218-10110)

“70.323 ev, 11-20-61)

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF justice!

PEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Miazi, “Florida Ou
September 11, 1964 EG,

Title «GERALD PATRICK HE!QING

Charecte:
2 INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

Report of Special Agent WILLIAM M,
DREW, JR., dated and captioned as
above, at Miami, Florida.

Reference

ALL sources (except eny listed below) whese identities
are concealed in referenced communication have furnished reliesle
infomation in the past.

‘This document
‘of the FBI and
your eqeacy.

cottsine neither recommendations cor coactasions of the FBI. It se the pop
Se iocued to your ogency; st aad ite cuateate are not to be disinbsied cateide



|

t
i

Copy tor

Report of WILLIAM MAYO DREW, JR.
Date

Tila GERALD PATRICK HEMMING

. os,

aoe

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
SECRET
1-INS,Miazi (Ru) T-U.S. Custems, Miami (R&)
Y-CIA, Miami (RM) > 1-U.S. Customs, Region 2 (Ru)
1-G-2,Ft.McPherson, Ga. (RM) “U.S. Border Patrol, Miami (RM)
1-Coordinator-Cuban Affairs, 1-ONT, Miami (RM)

Dept.-State, Miami (RM) 1-0sI, 6th Dist, Robins AFB, Ga. (RM)!

1-U.S. Coast Guard, Miami (RM)
1-Secret Service, Kiami (RM)
Ole: MIAMI, FLORID:

9/11/64

Plold Offiee File 195-3973 |, Bereeu File 10586406

Ghoracen INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA.

Synopts GERALD PATRICK HE‘XING was born 3/1/37, Los Angeles, Calif.,

and reeided 1036 8.¥, Sth St., Miami, Fla., as of 7/29/64,

Re served in U, S. Marine Corps, 4/54 ~ 10/58. In 2/59,

he went to Cuba, where he became involved in Cuban and
Nicaraguan revolutionary activity and served in the Rebel
Army and Air Force of the CASTRO government, with a salary

of $70.00 to $80.00 per month on an irregular basis.

In 8/60, he left Cuba and returned to California, via

Mexico. HEMMING cane to Miami, Fla., in 4/61, to participate
4n-anti-CASTRO revolutionary activity, estabiished a group
known as the Anti-Communist Legionnaires, and set up a train-
ing camp in the Everglades. As of 7/61, HESMMING advised he
was: head of Intercontinental Penetration Forces, aka.
Interpen, which had about 20 members. HEWING participated
in a mission to Cuba from Florida in 8/61, an unsuccessful
attempt to contact the Cuban underground. In 3/62, HEMMING

: advised he. continued to participate .in.Cuban revolutionary

activity, but tas not then conducting a training progran.

In 8/6, HENMING was one of a group stopped by U. S. Customs
at Pompano Beach, Fla. In September and October, 1962, he
was at a training camp at No Name Key, Fla., and as of 11/62,

.. planned to depart on a mission to Cuba. Qm' 12/4/62, HEMMING

2” ‘This docdment contame neither recommendations ner cone!
our agency; it and ite conteate are not to be distributed outelde row

SECRET

7 GROUP 1

Excluded from automatic
downgrading and -
declassification.

FBI, Ria the property of the PBI cod ts locaed to
om :



HM 105-3973

Synopsis; :
(Cont'd.) . Sil

, and twelve associates were arrested by U. S. Customs
at Marathon, Fla,, charged with conspiracy to illegal-
ly export articles of war. These charges dismissed
in Federal Court, Miami, in 1/63. HENNING reportedly
planned to steal some arms from one MIKE MORINO,
Hialeah, Fla., in 6/63. In October and November, 1963,
HEAMING participated in a search for a plane and two
lost Americans, which proved unsuccessful. During this
trip, he made derogatory remarks concerning U. S. Govern-
ment and agencies thereot. Description set forth,



1 vet 105-3973
} ‘ "WMD: pIn

TAILS:

I. BACKGROUND.

The following information has been taken from the
skeleton military service-records on file at the General Service tare
; Administration, Military Personnel Records Center, St. Louis, i
Missouri, for GERALD PATRICK HEMMING, JR., Merine Serial
! * Nucber 1488247, a3 reviewed by Investigative Clerk GEQESE T.
JENKINS, on May 26, 1961. Background information not obtained
from this source is so designated.

| . i A. Birth
H . canes
i

HEMMING was born March 1, 1937, at Los Angeles,
California. :

- B. Residences

November, 1941 to December, 1950:

H . : . 708 North New Avenue :
: _ Monterey Park, California ects uabteey Att

“December, 1950 to April, 1954:

2528 South Paulson Avenue
BL Monte, California

- April, 1954 to October, 1958:
: United States Marine Corps



MA 105-3973

On April 29, 1961, while being interviewed in ~
connection with another matter, HELMING advised that
following his Marine service, he resided at 2433 West
Valley Boulevard, Alhambra, California.

E On July 7, 1961, Sf T-1, an American citizen

iva. -.+, Who has been engaged inCuban revolutionary activities

: for the past six years, advised that GERALD PATRICK
HEMMING has been residing at the San Juan Hotel,
located on North Miami Avenue, Miami, Florida, having
been evicted from his previous residence at 1936
Southwest Third Street, Miami.

On March 30, 1962, HEMMING furnished his address
as a rooming house at 128 Southwest Bighth Street,
Miami,

On August 10, 1963, MM T-1 advised that
GERALD PATRICK HEMMING was then residing at 2450
Northwest North River Drive, Miami, Florida.

On July 29, 1964, MM T-1 advised that HEMMING
was then residing at "1036 Southwest Fifth Street,
Apartment 2, Miami,Florida.

te f._Occupations

fe : Subject's occupations were listed as aviation
t control tower operator, ground contact bs aeanil ‘controller
and link trainer instructor.

On July 29, 1964, MM T~l advised that. HEMMING
is pengraiiy unemployed, although he occasionally
works for one Captain HANS MILTON, a marine surveyor
and alcoholic, in and around the Itami area.

3.



MM 105-3973

D. _Citizenshi

Subject is a native-born United States citizen.

ee E. Nationality Background

- GERALD PATRICK HEMMING, SR., father of the subject,
. was born on May 31, 1902 et Ceylon, India, and eatered the . : 12
United States at New York City on July 11, 1919. He was H
naturalized in the Eastern District of New York on March 15, : an
1927. CATHERINE ELLEN HEMMING, nee SIMPSON, was born on 1
March 18, 1913 at Saskatoon, Saskatchewan, Canecz, and entered :
the United States at Baine, Washington, on Novecber 30, 1923.
She was naturalized in the Southern District of California on
i + November 26, 1943. 5 eee

F. Military Record

i ilies Subject enlisted in the United. States: Marine Corps
cae “on April 19, 1954, entering on active duty on that date at
Los Angeles, California. He was honorably released from
active duty and transferred to the United States Marine
ieee Corps. Reserve to complete his military obligation under the
t Universal Military Training and Service Act on October 17,
4 1958. The terminal dete of his reserve obligation was shown
as April 18, 1962. There was no record of foreign service,.
awards.of medals, decorations, citations, courts-=artial,
absent without official leave, nervous conditions or mental
disorders. : : :

t
H
i
i
|
| On August 3, 1964, Investigative Clerk CLIFFORD M.
WERNER reviewed the records of the Dade County Judge's Office,
| .. which reflected marriage application #180181, filed on i
| . August 6, 1963, for GERALD PATRICK HEMMING, JR., born
: | “March 1, 1937, Los Angeles, and PATRICIA A. SULLIVAN, born

July 14, 1941, Jacksonville, Florida. It was indicated that

Bord


24+ + MM 105-3973

i neither had been previously married, and that they were both
i : .xesiding at 2450 Northweat North River Drive, Miami, They

| + Were married on August 9, 1963, by H. L. MAYO, Notaz, Public,
tos _ 101 Northwest 33rd Avenue, Miaci.

H .

H.__Identification Record

Contributor Nace Arrested Charge Disposition

: - of and or.

‘ Fingerprints Nurber Received

i PD Miami GERALD 11-1-61 vag 11-2-61 rel

i. Fla PATRICK ‘

Paserererene tee HEMMING

: sate #77255

‘eae PD Mobile GERALD. . 2-23-62 inv ee

: Ala PATRICK ; : .
eo +, x0... HEMMING, JR. : etna

#57326

-. SO Key West GERALD 12-4-62 Vio of U.S, rel to U.S.M.

. Ha 1" PATRICK : Neutrality Act Miami Fla ~ -
: HENMING, JR. ‘

#6221

a The records of the Mismi Beach, Florida Police

Deparecte, Dade County Sheriff's Office, Mismi Police
Department and the Miami Municipal Court were checked on
August 3, 1964, by Investigative CLERK CLIFFORD M. WERNER, and
no record identifiable with HEMMING was located.



" YM 105-3973

The skeleton Marine records reflected that HEMING
had been arrested at El Monte, California on February 10,

- 1952, for Receiving Stolen Property, specifically, a caliber .25

pistol and a caliber .41 pistol. The records further show
that he.was declared.a ward of the court and released on
probation to his parents, under the supervision of a Probation

_ Officer, and that he was released from probation on April 9, 1953.

This juvenile record was waived on HEMMING's enlistwent in the
United States Marine Corps.



MM_105-3973
4 WD/al

: : II. REVOLUTIONARY ACTIVITIES

As set forth above, GERALD PATRICK HEMMING entered on
i duty with the U. S. Marine Corps on April 15, 1954, at the age
| of 17. He was honorably released from active duty and transferred
j to the Marine Corps Reserve on October 17, 1958.

On March 28, 1560, MM T-2, another Governcent, agency
ie « which conducts personnel and intelligence investigations,
made available information concerning GERRY HEMING, who was
then residing in Havana, Cuba. HEMING was dés¢ribded as an
American with the Cuban Revolutionary Air Force, stationed
in Pinar del Rio. It was reported that he claimed to be a
2233 Jet pilot whose mission was to intercept airplanes
based in the United States which fly over Cuba to destroy
sugar cane fields. It was also reported that he had formerly
been stationed in the Isle of Pines, Cuba.

: 7 This information also indicated that HEMING was an
associate of Major WILLIAN A, MORGAN.

ne Major WILLIAM A, MORGAN was a United States citizen. who

fe went to Cuta and fought as a revolutionary against the

4 Government of FULGEXCIO BATISTA, which fell on January 1,”

ine “ 1959. MORGAN was later arrested and executed by the
CASTRO Government on a charge of counter-revolutionary
activity.

: The information from MM T-2 also reflected that
! HEMING was then wearing Army fatigues, was armed ica .
*~ pistol, and wore a United States paratrooper. badge. 3

Laat he -had been in Cuba for two years, “

be tee ~ On April 4, 1960, MM T-3, anothes Government
; agency which conducts personnel and intelligence Anvestigations,
» furnished information indicating that GERAID P, HAMING, a
. 23 year old United States citizen who had been born in Los
Angeles, California, was then employed by the Cuban
. Revolutionary Air Force at San Julian as a parachutist and
was then engaged in training Nicaraguans. At this tine HAMING

7.

Son a nareeeanes



?

M1_105~2973
waD/al ~~

reportedly said that there were only 25 parachutists in

Cuba, that all were willing to fight in Nicaragua, and

that they would come weil armed, EAMING was described

as having been a flyer who was 2 Marine in Korea and

at the Guantanamo Naval Base and had been warned when

‘isco. Nhe was fighting for Cuba that he could lose his United _
States citizenship. HAMING indicated that this was not

important to him.

This informaticn also reflected that HAMING
Hy had indicated en interest in going to Costa Rica to
oo coordinate activities between Cuba end Costa Rican
1 groups there.

{ He was reported to have indicated a desire to

i travel to the United States under e false name and Cuban

i passport to sell liberty bonds in California and obtain
arms and planes from a ranch in Texas. He was also

- veported to have proposed a. scheme to steal. two small

. Planes from an air base in Texas and claimed that he had
friends in the U. S. Marine Corps who would obtain arms
from Marine Corps arsenals.

HAMING also is reported to have stated that when
FIDEL CASTRO and Soviet diplomat ANASTAS MIKOYAN visited
the San Julian Air Base, they discussed Soviet aid to
Cuba, including secret assistance in the form of men and
arms. :

It 4s noted that M4 T-2 in a report dated ‘i che,
July 19, 1960, furnished informtion regarding a smsll : aH
group of Nicaraguans, Americans and Cubans who composed E

the MOVIMTENTO DE LIBERACION SANDINO NICARAGUA (SANDINO
MOVEMENT FOR THE LIBERATION OF NICARAGUA). It was . fata
reported that the goal of this group was to gather

materials of war, money, and to recruit non-Cubans in



fi !

ne

Mt 105-3973
WeD/al,

Latin American countries and the United States to serve in
the military forces with which they intended to invade
the Republic of Nicaragua... The group had-the support of
FIDEL CASTRO end the Cuban Government as well 2s Comandante
_ WILLIAM A, MORGAN and had been premised weapons, emmunition, 7
“““" glothing, and medical supplies. Among the indivicuals i
. identified as members of this group was JERRY FOMING, who |
was reported to have fought in the Cuban revolution, to i
i
i

wear a Cuban Air Force uniform, and to be a Sergetnt in t
the Cuban Air Force. As of the time of that report,

EEMING. was believed to be in Los Angeles, California,

visiting his parents.

i On February 13, 1961, JOSE CRUZ HERNANDEZ, *
‘ 1407 West 20th Street, Los Angeles, California, manager
of a Cuban relief house operated by the Society to Aid
Cuban Anti-Comaunists, advised that on the previous day
aman who said his first name was GERRY and whose last
name sounded to CRUZ like "FIAT", appeared eat CAUZ'S
home. GERRY appeared to be an American and said he was
.( @ paratrooper in the Army of FIDEL CASTRO under the command
: of WILLIAM A, MORGAN. .GERRY said that he had been a trainer
oe of Militiamen in Cuba and that he:had. been to Nicaragua
an 1959 and 1960. GERRY told CRUZ that he had been in
Los Angeles.a year and expected to return to Nicaragua,
expressing the belief that Nicaragua would be successful
in its revolution and would overthrow the SOMOZA regime
there. CRUZ said that GERRY was driving a 1952 Plymouth
| station wagon bearing California License FYA 579.

A review of the records of the Departzent of
_ Motor Vehicles, Los Angeles, California, reflected that
FYA 579 was registered to a 1952 Plymouth station wagon
belonging to CATHERINE E. HENMMING, 2433 West Valley,
H «|. Alhambra, California. It was noted that this individual
7 : is the motner of the subject.



MA_105-3973
WeD/al

Ef fhe April 26, 1951, edition of the "Miami News",
a datly newspaper published..in Miami, Florida, contained

an article concerning the formation of a new group to be
known as the ANTI-COMMUNIST LEGIONNAIRES, The article
related that the group wes composed of young Americans who
had been upset as a result of the unsuccessful Cuban exile
dnvasion previously and were desirous of helping the Cubans.
It 1s noted that en unsuccessful attempt to invade Cuba

was made by a group of Cuban exiles at Playa Giron, Cuba,
on April 17, 1961.

On April 28, 1961, Mi T-1 advised that the leader
of the ANTI-CO:CUNIST LEGIONNAIRES was a tall American, name
unknown, wno had been recruiting members for the organization
with the view of conducting future military action against

. Cuba. On May 1, 1961, M4 T-1 identified this American as

JERRY (Last Name Unimown), about_6' 5" tall, weighing. 230
pounds, and who claimed that he had been in jail in Cuba
efter having trained paratroopers in Cuba with the CASTRO
Government and guerrillas and rebels in Nicaragua. 14 T-1
said that about 20 members: of this group had established
a cand west of Miami in the Everglades where they’ were
living on available vegetation.

On April 29, 1961, GERALD PATRICK HEMMING was
interviewed in connection with another investigation,
HEMMING said that he was one of the leaders of the
ANTI-COMMUNIST LYGIONNAIRES and active in the organization.
He said he had gone to Cuba in February 1959 and remained
there until August 1960. \hile there he was a member of
the Cuban Revolutionary Aray, was later in the ‘Cuban
Revolutionary Air Force as a Sergeant and received a
salary of $70.00 to $80.00 a month on an irregular
basis. In about August 1960, he went to Mexico City
and contacted members of the Nicaragua Revolutionary

Movement. In September 1960, he traveled from Mexico

t
1
be

i
j
‘c
ot
i



¥M_105-3973
w/a

to los sngelen, California. HEMMING s2id that in about
March 1961, he received a telephone call from one JAIGS
GENTRY in Miamt, suggesting that he come to Miami in order
to participate in Cuban anti-Comaunist revolutionary
activities. HEMMING identified GEITRY as an American
citizen who had previously served as a lieutenant in the
Cuben Revolutionary Army.

HEMMING waz recontacted on June 8, 1961, at
which time he stated that he had met JAMES GENTRY,
mentioned above, in February 1959, at Camp Libertad, located
near Havana, Cuda. HEXMING mentioned that he wes also
acquainted with various members of the Nicaraguan Revolutionary
Movement, also kmown ss the Sandino Movement, as this group
had hed a nucleus in Havana during 1959 and the early part
of 1960, -HENMING stated that he had associated with the
Cuban Revolutionary Army during the period February 1959
to August 1960.

The "Miami Herald" issue of June 27, 1961, contained
an article captioned "Anti-Castroites Resume Training Here".
This article related that:

“Soldiers of fortune, seeking. war and
adventure in Cuba, ere again openly
training in streets, fieldg and swamps
of Florida.

"One group of anti-Castro volunteers,
called the Intercontinental Penetration
Forces (Interpen), is headquartered in 2
cluster of boarding houses in the Southwest
section of Miami......."

' Phe article related that the Interpen group was
led by JERRY PATRICK, described as a young een standing
6t Ts tall whose real name. is HEMMING.



Ye 105-3973
WuD/al

qne July 10, 1961, desue of the "Mia=i Herald"
contained an article captioned "We Choose How we'll Be
Killed" by Dom BONAPEDE, a staff writer, This article.
relates the details of'sn interview which BONAFEDE
hed with CERAID PATRICK HEMIING, also known as JERRY
PATRICK. In this article BONAFEDE quoted PATRICK
as stating that he had gone to Cuba after he got out of
the Marines and that he had joined up with Ca! 's
rebels 28 @ paratrooper instructor, During this period
he became friendly with WILLIAM MORGAN, who was described
as an American exp2triate who served as a.Major in
CASTRO's Army and who was later executed as a traitor
to the revolutionary cause. ‘Tne article related that
after CASTRO assumed power, HEXMING was assigned es an
‘iad Adjutant at the San Julian Air Base in Pinar del Rio.

He said that he left Cuba in August 1960 after being

mvolved in a plot with a group of Nicaraguans seeking to
1 -  ,. overthrow the SOMOZA regime.

The article went-on to state that HEMiNG said
. he hoped to overthrow the same CASTRO Government that he
*y* ence fought for, The plen of HEMMING, according to this
article, was “in the clessic revolutionary style -
‘ : first establish. sympathy among the pessants, then parachute
dn end start guerrilia fighting" . He was also quoted as
stating that “There will have to be raids along the beaches
to suck CASTRO's Militia out of the hills and then
dafiltration. of. small commando forces"

‘* MM 7-1 advised on May 25, 1961, that G
PATRICK HENMING had recently made contact with an individual
kmown as PRATO (First Name Unimewn), wno was an associate
of MARCOS PEREZ JIMEWEZ, former head of the Venezuelan
Government residing in Miami Beach, Florida. HEMiING
had offered his services to PEREZ JIMENEZ for future
revolutionary activity in Venezuela.



MA 105-3973
WHD/al

@-1 advised on June 5, 1961, that one
PELEAZ (eine Name Unknown), 5733 N. W. 6th Place,
Miami, as @ representative of MARCOS PEREZ JIMENEZ,
bought $160.00 worth of food as a donation to Interpen.

On June 27, 1961, MM T-1 furnished information

* peflecting that HEMMING and several other members of the

Interpen group had mace :padantaate jumps at an abandoned
airfield at Davie, Florida.

. On July 2, 1961, MM T-1 advised that on that
date about 75 Cubans gathered at Davie Airport, Davie,
Plorida, where ebout six newspapermcn were waiting. These
newsmen reportedly represented UP International, Time and
life Magazines, and some Spanish language newspapers [
from the Miami area. Individuals belonging to Interpen, ab
including the subject, made parachute jurps which were j

a {
i
i

i
H

photographed.

The "Miami Herald" on July 3, 1961, contained
an article stating that a mass drop by some 75 parachutists
: oo of the Intercontinental Penetration Forces had been
H scheduled for 9:00 A.M., on July 2, 1961, but that
by noon of that day there were only forty anti-CAsTRO.
recruits on hand to jump. The article also reported that:
Interpen was a member of the International Brigade headed
by FRANK FIORINI.

FRANK ANTHONY STURGIS, also known as FRANK FIORINI,
-.is an American adventurer who at one time was
-, associated with the forces of FIDEL CASTRO in Cuba.

: | ow! On duly 5, 1961, GERALD PATRICK HEMMING, then
j ae residing at 1936 S.W. 3rd Street, Miami, was interviewed

concerning the organizstion known as Interpen. HEMMING
said he is considered the head of Interpen, that the
organization had about twenty aexbers, eleven of which were
camped near the Davie Airport, Davie, Florida, He said



Mt 105-3973
WMD.“al

Pe
@ considerable amount of recent newspaper publicity had
caused people to come, to Florida from verious..parts

of the United States to Join the organization. He

said that most of these individuals have been rejected
because they were not qualified, had no military background
or were just vagrants. HEMMIG advised that, he was planning
to establish a survival training camp on an island about one
mile off Key Largo, Florida, but that this island had no water
and he was negotiating for transportation to and from the
island for both men and fresh water.

+« \HEMMING said thst Interpen was not then recruiting
new members. He said thas his purpose in associating himself with
thé anti-IDEL CASTRO movement was to instruct Cubans in
military techniques, parachute and boat techniques and to
train pathfinders to prepare the beach areas in Cuba prior
to an invasion. He said that his organization had no plans
to go on any expedition. or to. engage in any military
warfare in'Cuba. He said that the Cuban exiles needed a
considerable amount of military training and that he
considered Interpen capable of furnishing this training.

Regarding his past experiences, HEMMING mentioned
that he went to Cuba in January 1959 and stayed until August
1960, He said he was in the Cuban Revolutionary Air Force,
had worked closely with WILLTAM ALEXANDER MORGAN and had
commanded the San Julian Air Force Base located in Pinar del
Rio, Cubs, until this base was visited by RAUL CASTRO, head
of the Cuban Armed Forces, HEMMING related that RAUL CASTRO
did not like Americans in positions of command and had :
questioned HEMMING concerning his attitude in the event of
an invasion of Cuba by American forces. HEMMING said that
he replied that "If a man shoots at you, you shoot back
regardless of the flag he flies". HEMMING also advised



: 1 105-3973
t WD/al -

that he "sut-slogene’ the sloganers", indicating he had
talked against American imperialists and adepted his
comments to the expediency of the situation. He said in the
Spring of 1960, MORAN's poaition in relation to the Cuban
Government began to deteriorate and HEMIING was twice
{ arrested cn suspicion of counter-revolutionsary activity.
ieee He said he continusd to weer the uniform of the Cuban.
Revolutionzry Air Force but lived in a hotel in HKevana
and was inactive for three months, He left Cuba in August
1960 and went to Mexico City where he spent two weeks after
which he returned to etre.

On July 7, 1961, MM T-2 advised that Mrs. "HAMILTON,
ower of the property located at 1936 S.W. oe epabetir hac
forced Hm=ccING and his group to leave that residence because
of investigations by police and because of the Pescaaiae
presence of newspaper reporters and _Photographers. MM OT-1
said that HEMMING moved to the San Jin Hotel that day and
on Jyly 10, 1961, planned to go to the Davie Airport for
parachute jumps which were to be photographed end sent
to the Columbia Broadcasting System for possible use as
& news iten,

MM T-1 advised on August 7, 1961, that HEMMING
had drawn up ea military training plan which he had made
available to AURELIANO SANCHEZ ARANGA, head of a Cuban
a : anti-CASTRO organization known as the REVOLUTIONARY
‘ JUNTA FOR NATIONAL LIBERATION. HEMMING proposed to

: ' SANCHEZ that his plan be adopted by SANCHEZ's organization
and that HE=XING would conduct the training in military
Mae tactics and guerrilla warfare. MM T-1 said that SANCHEZ
{ #2 <*  later-remarked that he would like to adopt HEMING's plan
but that he had no intention of using HEMMING or his
organization in the implementation of the ‘plan.

On August 14, 1961, MM T-1 advised that HEMMING
had been in contact with ELOY GUTIERREZ MENOYO, a Cuban
exile leader in the Miami area. According to i T-1,
GUTIERREZ was planning to send ten of his men by boat. on
a mission to Cuba. Four of the men were to stay in Cuba



M1 105-3973
WD/al

while others would spend some time on some British islands
north of Cuba, ineluasa ng Anguiia Key where at was believed
some arms have been buried.

ELOY GUTIERREZ MENOYO 4s. leader of an organization.
kmown 28 the SECOND NATIONAL FRONT OF THE ESCAMBRAY,
which was founie3 by GUTIERREZ in Cuba in 1958 to
Oppose the BATISTA regime end which was leter
ro-organized,with headguarcers in Miamt, in 1961,

to engage in’ anti-CASTx0 revolutionary activity.

On August 16, 1961, Hf T-1 advised that KExMING
had been in contact with GUTIERREZ and GUPTERREZ told
HEPMING that he was sending mer to Anguila Key to recover
arms previously burizé there. He offered to take EEXMING
on the mission and HEMUING accepted.

: On August 26, 1961, M4 T-1 advised that HEMMING
claimed thas he had returned to Miamt on August 24, 1961,
from a mission to Cuba. HEMMINS said that he and about
eleven other men went to Cuba on 4 sixty-five foot commercial
fishing boat. They had visited Cayo Frances and Cayo
Guillermo located off the north coast of Cuba. He said that
they had contacted the underground in Cuba, remained there
for three or four G2ys and then returned to Miami.

On August 29,-1961, JOSE M, GONZALEZ HERNANDEZ,
1601 N.W, 29th Court, Miami, edvised that on or about
August 23, 1961, HEMNING hed contacted him and related
details of 2 clandestine mission to Cuba in which HENMMING
had participated, GONZALEZ saic that HEMMING typed up a
_-Peport on the mission which inciceted it had been executed
on the night of August 17, 1961, and that landings were
made at Cayo Guillermo eng Cayo Frances on the north coast

of Cuba after which contacts were made with members of eee

the anti-Cas'

fe On September 1, 1961, M4 T-1 advised that
HEXMING was then staying at the Blue Bay Motel, Miami Beach,

20 underground in those areas.



_ temporarily but

¥M_105-3973
WMD/al

Plorida, where ELOY CUTIZRPZZ MENOYO was also living and
maintaining the headquarters for his organization, ihe
SECOND NATIONAL FRONT OF THE ESCAMGRAY. -

On October 19, 1951, HEMMING was contacted
concerning the nature of his trip to Cuba, and he denied
he had made any trip to Cuba during August 1961. He also
denied that he had typed 2 report concerning this trip
or that he had told anyone that he had made such 4 trip.
He said th2t sometime during the middle of August 1961,
he went fishing about thirty miles southwest of Andros
Island in the Bahamas with eignt or nine Cubans. He said
he could not recall the name of the boat which they had
used but said they were gone about eleven days and that
all they did was fish. ‘

On October 20, 1951, ANTONIO PEREZ QUESADA,
224 S.W. 4th Avenue, Miami, Florida, was interviewed and
advised that he was the:owner and. captain of a fishing:
sloop named “Blanca Estella*. He said that on August 12,
1961, he departed Miami in his boat along with nine other
individuals, including GERALD PATRICX HEMMING, and proceeded
out to the open sea. He satd his. boat arrived at about
midnight, August 17, 1961, at Cayo Guillermo off the north
coast of Cuba, where eight men went shore and were
unsuccessful in en attempt to contact members of the Cuban
underground, These eight individuals remained at Cayo
Guillermo for almost two dsys during which tame they had
no activity and .fter which they all decided to return to
Miami, . PEREZ related that in the process of departing
from Cayo Guillermo, some Cubane were held es hostages
jere later released and no violence was
involved. He said thet the "Blanca Estella" returned to
Miami about August 24, 1961.

On November 17, 1951, MM T-1 advised that a group
of Cubans and Americans were leaving Mismi on that date to

|

{

i

|
ae

gee



31 105-3973)
WMD/al

participate in a week-end of training at a site about fifty

miles west. of Miami in the Florid: Everglades. A cazp was

es to be set up at this lccation for week-end training and

He eleven Cubans end six Acericans were to particpate including

GERALD PATRICX HEMMING. The training was to be sporsored

- by the 30th of November Revolutionary Movement, en anti-CASTRO
‘orgenization.with headqusrters in Miami. -

On December 6, 1961, WM T-1 advised that HEMMING
and his associates were no longer connected with the 30th of
November Revolutionary Movement because they had been in
contact with ROLANDO MASPERRER. MA T-1 said that H=-4ING
claimed to be working with the MASFERRER group and also
: claimed that this group was to receive assistance from the
i United States Government.

ROLANDO MASFERRER was _a Senator in the Cuban Government
during the regime of FULGZNCIO BATISTA.

On March 30, 1962, HEMMING was interviewed and advised
that he continued participating in Cuban revolutionary
activities. He ssid he was not conducting any training at
that time but that he still considered himself available to
io". train Cuban exiles for soze future military action in Cuba.
if Hs He ssid that in about mic-Jenuary 1962, he went from Miami
ee to Los Angeles, California, where he contacted a nucber of

American businessmen interested in the Cuban situation.
; -, He seid he hed unsuccessfully attempted to convince these
i men to mske financial contributions to be used by the Cuban
| exiles for such a Suture action against the CASTRO Government
| of Cuba,’ He said that in mid-February 1962, he treveled to
ws Mobile, Alabaxs, where he visited a friend named DAMON NAPIER.
Bee i wie. While in:Mobile, he was errested and jailed by the police
’ there on a charge of investigation end was held for cne week.

. .. HEMMING said he had previously met’ NAPIER in Miemi and that

. when he visited NAPIER in Mobile, it sppeared to him that
. ~~ NAPIER was then involved with stolen automboiles and checks.



MM_ 2105-3973
WrD/al

HEMMING eaid following his week in jail, he was released
by the Mobile Police Department.

On April 3, 1962, 104 Tel advised thet HEMMING's
organization, Interpen, w2s not ective, had no members, and
i , that HEMMING wes.not & merber of any Cuban revolutionary
' organization although he w2s continuing to visit certain
of these organizations reletive to the establishment of a
i military training camp where he could train Cuban exiles
j for guerrilla warfare.

Hl On June 18, 1962, MM T-1 advised that HEMMING

{ had recently, pu rehased @ quantity of skin-diving equipment
i from Water World on Biscayne Boulevard in Miami, VM Tel

| said that HEMMING paid slightly over $1000.00 for the

H equipment involved,

ae : 7 MM T-1 advised on August 3, 1962, that HEMMING
gee was, supposed to be the middle man in the sale of 250 pounds.
of C-4 explosive. MM T-1 advised, however, that HEWMING
had been unable to obtain the explosive as of that time.
He was to purchase the explosive for resale to one DAVID
QUINTAS, 469 N.W. 48th Street, Miami, a Cuban exile
Fee “  dnvolved in revolutionary activity. MM T-1 edvised that
on August 23, 1562, QUINTAS contacted HEMMING and said that
he hoped to leave Miami on the following cay providing
HEMMING could obtain a boat for transportation. MM T-1 a
said that on that same date, SAM BENTON, an American citizen
who resides in Miami and who is employed as a private
. . .@etective, arranged for the use of a boat which would be
i * operated by HEMMIHG to carry QUINTAS and his men to the .
Bahamas and thereafter to Cuba. This boat was the "Outlaw 6",
; &@ thirty foot Chris Craft twin-engine cabin cruiser. HENGCING
end QUINTAS were planning to take a total of nineteen Cubans
i to Anguila Key in the Bahazas to remain there for a few days
‘ where they would meet another group of Cubans and then rs
proceed to Cube.

PSS FMM

as


‘" PATRICK HEMMING an@ five othe

HM 105-3973
WMD/al

H Mi T-1 advised on August 27, 1962, tnat four groups

£ Cubans had left Miami on the previous evening for Fort
Lauderdale, Florida, and that they were maintaining telephone
contact with QUINTAS in Niexnt for further instructiom. It
was planned that HENMING Keuld take the boat to a secure
Place where the Cubens and their equipment could be loaded
without being seen by the U. S. Border Patrol or local police.
The four groups of Cubens, however, returned to Miami and
were not taken aboard the boat.

On August 28, 1962, Mr. J. H. WILCHESTER, U. S.
Customs, Miami, Florida, advised that in the early morning
hours of that date, Customs egents had observed the "Outlaw 6"
at Pompano Eeach, Piorids, where it was being loaded with
boxes, packeges and ateel drums. Mr. WILCHT.3TE2 said the
boat contained no automitic weapons and among the several
Americans abroad was GERALD PATRICK HENMING,’ who claimed
that they were going fishing. .

Mi T-1 advised on August 28, 1962, thet HEMMING
had called Miami, Florida, to report that he had been stopped

by U. S. Customs agenta and that he was returning. to Miami.

q On August 29, 1962, MM T-1 reported that HEMMING
end his crew had returned to Miami but that E=.ING was
impatient to attempt another expedition and hoped to leave
within two or three weeks,

“MM T-1 advised on September 8, 1962,'.that GERALD
roamericans left Miami that dey
for Big Pine Key, Florida, where they were going to start

to train a group of Cuban exiles in infantry tactics, small
arms, demolition, and military formation. :

: On September 10, 1962, DARREL C. CARICC, U. S.
Border Patrol, Key West, Plorids, advised that he had gone

f
iy



> were in the possession of members of the training camp.

“had stated that his group would probably depart from the

¥H_105-3973
WMD/al

to Big Pine Key on the previous day where he observed some
sixteen individuals in possession of several Infield rifles,
vecfous msaxe3 and calibers of pistols and other military
equipment. CARICO saié that the group coneisted of six
Americans, nine Cubans, and one Cenadian, and included
GERALD. Pi! HEMMING. He said thet the group wes planning
to go to Ki e Key, Florida, where they were to remain
until about September 14, 1962, when they were to move back
to their comp in the Florida Everglades.

. On September -18, 1962, Ke. 3. H, WILCH2STER,
Supervising Customs Agent, Miami, Flori¢a, advised that
Customs agents had visited the above-mentioned training
camp and that they had confiscated several weapons which

YM T-1 advised on October 8, 1952, that HEMMING
continued to operate his military training camp at No Name
Key, Florida.

On October 29, 1962, HM T-1 advised that most of
the Americans who had been at the training camp at No Name
Key had returned to Miani where they were planning to
tba. or rent a boat to a on a military expedition to

uba. :

on xovenber 13, 1962, 9M T-1 stated that HEYMING
a his followers were still eager to launch a military
atteck againss Cuba end were tn possession of some erms
which included a Thompson sub-machinegun, rifles, and a
case of dynamite.

MM.P-1 advised on Noverde> 14, 1962; that HEMING
vicinity of Msrathon, Florida and would defy U. S. Border
Patrol or Customs agents if the Federal Government attempted
to stop them from proceeding on this military expedition.


j
|

MM 105-3973
WHD/al

HEMMING said his group would return fire on any Federal
Government group that would try to stop them, including
the United States Navy. :

On December 2, 1962, M4 T-1 advised that a
thirty-five foot Criss Craft motor boat named “Sally”
had been rented in Miami on December 2, 1962, for use
by HEMMING end his associates. 14 T-1 said they had
raised $200.00 to put down as a deposit on the boat,
They departed on that date from Miami enroute to Marathon,
Florida, where the bost was to be outfitted for a military
expedition.

NM T-1 advised on Decexder 3, 1962, that HEMMING
had purch2sed four 55-gallon drums which were to be taken
along on the boat for reserve fuel. KM T-1 also reported
that HE-SMING had obtained én M-2 carbine, a Thompson
Bub-machinegun, four M-1 rifles, and a quantity of
ammunition. He was also plenning to steal a 20 mm. cannon
which was in possession of avanti-CASTRO Cuban exile.

On December 4, 1962, Mr. WALLACE SHANLEY, U. 8.
Customs, Miami, advised that thirteen individuals had been
arrested at 12:30 A.M., on that’ cate by U. 3. Customs
agents at Marathon, Florida, and charged with violation

of Title 18, U. S, Code, Section 371, deeling, with
conspiracy to illegelly export articles of war and Title 22,
U. S. Code, Section 1934, dealing with illegal. exportution
of arms and articles of war. He said among the items
confiscated by Customs agents were rifles, pistols,
ammunition, explosives, hand grenades, blood plasma, as
well as a large quantity of miscellaneous militery equipment
and a thirty-one foot Chris Craft motor boat. - Among the

"” Andividuals arrested was GERALD PATRICK HEMMING.



MUL 105-3973
WD:pls

The January 22, 1963 issue of the "Miami Herald"

..- contained an article captioned “Anti-Castro Trainees Freed;
U. S. Doesn't Press Charges", which article related. that
Federal charges have been dropped “against 13 anti-Castroites
arrested December 4th as they started to leave by boat E

' for what Customs men believed was to be a hit-and-run
attack on Cuba.

"U, S, District Judge David Dyer dismissed
the cases because the Internal Security Section of the
dustice Department failed to go ahead with the prosecution,”

On January 23, 1963, MM T-1 advised that tbe
Inter-Continental Penetration Forces (Interpen) organization
of HEWIING had recently purchased seven carbines and 1,500
rounds of ammunition for a future military expedition.

MM T-1 said that HESMING was then in Taxpa, Florida, and
was expected to arrive in Miazi on Janucry 24, 1963.
Interpen was reported to be using an office at 160 :

- ‘ Southwest 16th Avenue, Miami, which Mi T-1 described as
actually an office of the John Birch Society.

On June 18, 1963, ID! T-1 advised that GERALD _
PATRICK HEMMING had learned of the existence of some
arus which were being kept at the residence of MIKE.
MORINO, 5730 Northwest 113th Terrace, Hialeah, Florida.
MMOT-1 said that HEYMING was planning to steal these
arms from MORINO.

* - On June 19, 1963, MM T-1 said that HEMMING
met MORINO on that date to discuss the possibility that
HEMMING would buy the arms from MORINO. Later, HEMMING
and several of his associates met MORINO at the MORIXO
residence in Hialeah, at which tine they planned to rob 7
MORINO of the arms, but MORINO's family arrived home
unexpectedly, and EEMMING postponed the robbery.



Bl
,
)

1 3M 105-3973

i a ‘ On June 20, 1963, Ki T-1 advised that BEMMING
{ bad been at the MORINO resi @, and wae’ preparing to ©
take the arzs, but did not follow through.

On June 20, 1963, Mr, WALLACE SEANLEY, United
States Customs, Miami, advisec ROY HARGRAVES, 4170
Southwest Eighth Strect; JOSEPH GARMAN, 122 Southwest
Eighth Strect; JUSTIN WILSON and JAMES LiwIS, no known
address, and MICHAEL R. MORINO, had been arrested during
: ’ the early corning hours of June 20, 1963, by United
States Customs and charged with violation of the National
Firearzs Act for possession of automatic weapons.

It ig noted that Mi T-1 advised on June 20, 1963,

i that HESKING had beon.in the vicinity of NORINO's house
on that dzte, when he was stopped by United States

.,. Customs Agents, searched, and thon released. MM T-1 said
that associates of HESMING who were at the MORINO
residence wore arrested by tie Customs Agents.

MM T-1 advised.on July 11, 1963, that
HEWMING had left Miani, Florida on July 3, 1963, and
arrived the following day at Dallas, Texas, wherehe
conferred with EDWIN A. WALKER, foruertajor General in the
United States Army, According to MM T-1, WALKER.told
HEMMING he did not want to participate in Cuban affairs
because he did not want to back any specific cause,
* but rather would be available to fight communism all
over the United States, MM T-1 advised that HEMMING
said he had also corzerred with LESTER R, LOGUE,.628
Meadovs Evildiz>, Dallas, Texas, a wealthy oil man, who
told HEXMING that he had a six to eight-nan group which |
“was iaterested in fighting against communism. LOGUE
gaid ke could not participate with HEMMING at that time,
.. for fear of offending United States Governnext officials, :
and. baceathcrtahete HEMMING returned to Miami, Florida. 7 peeei

ees:



MM 105-3973

On August 6, 1963, Wf T-1 advised that PRANK
NELSON, an American adventurer from New York City who
has been connected with Cuban and Dominican Republic (DR)
revolutionary activities in the past, had recently
visited Miami and conferred with EEXMING. NELSON
claiced he was represexting a friend, who was interested
in buying PT-boats for shipnent to sone country in
Africa. NELSON and HEYSING visited boatyards in the
Miani area.

‘ On Septeuber 17, 1963, MM T-1 reported that
HEMMNING had had no further contact with LESTER LOGUE
‘since HEMMING's vicit to Dallas, Texas in early July of
1963. if T-1 said that HEISNING was still occupied in
making plans fortraining camps, arms purchases and
dnvasions of Cuba.

MM T-i advised on September 24, 1963, that
HEMMING had returned to Miami from a trip to Chicago,
Illinois on September 22, 1963. hile in Chicago,
HEMMING said he conferred with a Chicago attorney

named CONSTANTINE KANGLES, who previously had connections with
Cuban revolutionaries. wt T-1 said that KANGLES and HEMMING

talked about the possibility of negotiating with the
bhbaiiaiea of Cuba for the release of prisoners.

Ca October 5, 1963, MM T-1 said that HEMMING
and his group were considering the release of sone
abandoned buildings at the Clewiston, Florida Airport
for use as a military training site.

On October 18, 1963, iB! T-l advised that some

parts for a .20 ma cannon, along with a .20 mm cannon itself,
‘arrived in Miami that day, It is unknown how this cannon

or the parts arrived, but HEMMING took possession of it



MM 105-3973

rad immediately sold it to a Cuban exile, whose

identity is unknown. HEMMING had previously promised

to sell this canzon to SANTIAGO ALVAREZ RODRIGUEZ,

head of the Comandos L (C-L), an anti-CASTRO organization,
HEMMING explained to ALVAREZ that the gun had been
promised previously to another person, and that the next
+20 =m cannon to arrive would be sold to ALVAREZ.

: On October 24, 1963, WM T-1 advised that
HEMMING was a friend of ALEXANDER I. RORKE, JR., and
GEOFFREY SULLIVAN, two American pilots who left Broward
International Airport, Fort Lauderdale, Florida,
on Septenber 24, 1563, aboard a twin-engine aircraft for
a flight to Central Anorica, and havo not been heard of
since that. time. E=i4ING, along with STEVE WILSON
and RALPH HERNANDEZ, was organizing a search party to ..
go to Central America to loox scan RORKE and SULLIVAN,

The search expedition was to be paid for by
the insurance. company insuring the aircraft. ELLIS
RUBIN, a Miami attorney, om October 24, 1963, called
HEMMING and stated three insurance men had atrived in
Miami from Texas. The insurance company will-have to pay

- $31,000 for the plane if it is not located, and the
company was.interested in financing a search mission.

On Novender 5, 1963, Mir, WALLACE SHANLEY,
Assistant Custozs Agent in Charge, Usited States Custozs
Agency Service, Miani; Florida, advised that a DC-3
‘aircraft owned hy CHARLES E, BUSH, Dania, Florida,
geparted from Broward International Airport. on
November 2, 1963, for the purpose of going to Merida,
Mexico, and other places in Central America to search
for RORKE and SULLIVAN.

‘ The folloving persons were listed aboard this
airplane: ertesiat



- HESNING was then in serious financial condition, and me

ME 105-3973 :

CHARLES E, BUSH, Pilot
HOWARD DAVIS, Co-pilot
RALPH HERNANDEZ NODARSE . .
ROY E, HARGREAVES
JUSTIN WILSON
ALLAN B. KENNEDY
GERALD PATRICK HELUING
Mr, SHANLEY stated the aireraft was searchod,
and it was found there were four parachutes aboard, along

with a 338 caliber pistol and a shotgun. ‘here were no
provisions of any sort on the plane.

The occupants of the airplane talked freely of
their intention of going to Merida, Mexico, and then
proceeding southward on a search mission on a route that
may have been used by RORKE and SULLIVAN. It was
expected that the mission would last four to six days.

Mf T-1 advised on Noverber 8, 1963, that
HEMMING and the above-mentioned group returned to Miami, - :
Florida, on November 6, 1963, after having conducted an a
unsuccessful search operation for RORKE. and SULLIVAN. : ot

Fi MM T-1 advised on December 4, 1963, that

that neither he nor his wife were then erployed. He

said that HELING was then engaged in attempting to tt
raise funds for kisCubaa revolutionary activities by "
writing letters requesting contributions to leading .
political and industrial figures in the United States.

7.



i MM 105-3973

t
i
i On December 16, 1963, GERALD PATRICK HEYKING
i

was interviewed in connection with another matter.
At this time, HESING was residing at 1036 Southwest
Fifth Street, Apartment #2, Miami, Florida. During
: the interview, he mentioned he was then unenployed, and
{ was not operating any military training programs for
: Cuban exiles. He said his organization, Interpen, had
six members, but was inactive.

The June 28, 1964 issue of the "Miami Herald”

contained an article captioned "Arms Returned to Rebels",
‘ which related that "a 12-rember Foderal Court Jury agreed
i with GERALD PATRICK HEMMING, better known as JERRY
: PATRICK, that the arms and ammunition which had becn
r seized by United States Customs Agents 19 months ago
i... ..; OM Sombrero Beach, Marathon, Florida, were to be used for
' a training camp and not for a mission to Cuba", The
’ _ article reported that PATRICK, 2540 Northwest North
: River Drive, said that he had switched his training
: operations’from’the Florida Keys to the Everglades. ‘ pereereaesereaea

ae oer III, ANTI-UNITED STATES COMMENTS MADE BY
yay, ATRICK HE!

i MM T-1, on-November 8,1963, furnished

Hin information concerning the aerial search in which

: HEMNMING participated, which was previously mentioned.

Hl . According to MM T-1, the DC-3 aircraft which was utilized
i in the search arrived at Merida, lexico on Nweuber 2, 1963;
left Merida on Noverber3, 1963, and arrived at, Cozurel.
The plane departed Cozurel on November 3, 1964, and arrived
at Belize, British Honduras, and on Kmember 4, 1963,

... @eparted Belize for Puerto Barrios, Guatemala. - When
the DC-3 aircraft arrived at Puerto Barrios, Guatezala, eee
the occupants of the airplane were detained and flown :

Xf

seas gypane age



My 105-3973

to Guatemala City in a Guatemalan Air Force C-47. Upon
arrival in Guatecala City, they were taken to the

Air Force headquarters where they were detained.

After. a time, a group-of Guatenalan Air Force.pilots
came tothe headquarters and invited the search party

to visit the Officer's Club. The search party thereafter
visited the Officer's Club and was questioned thoroughly
by the. Guatemalan pilots, who spoke English and admitted
they were representing the Guateralan Intelligence
Service. During this period, HEING became intoxicated
and taiked at great length against the United States
Government officials, the United States Government policy
and corruption and ineptness of the United States Central
Intelligence Agoncy (CIA). MM T-1 said that HEMMING
talked so unfavorably about the ted States Government
that the Guatemalan officers who had been doing the :
questioning began to suspect HEUMING of being an agent
of the Cuban Government,

IV, DESCRIPTION”

The following description of GERALD PATRICK
HELMING was obtained through United States Marine Corps
records..and from MM T=1;

Name : GERALD. PATRICK HEYMING :
Aliases —~ GERRY HEMING, JFRRY HEMING,
JERRY EEMING,., JERRY
: mo PATRICE’ HEMMING, GERRY
ee : : PATRICK, JERRY PATRICK

: Age 27- .
a + Birth March 1, 1937, Los Angeles,’
eae tte . : California . .
Height : 6'6"

Wei, ght : * 232



|
|

WM 105-3973 ; !

i

i SECRET ‘
i _ i !
oe
; Race White Hl

i Sex Male 1

: Hair Brown (dark) ca |

H Eyes Blue |

i i Distinguishing {

i presente Marks 3" scar on bridge of nose;

1 7 ‘ 13" sear on right elbow; a

H 7 4" scar on upper right leg
Military Training Entered active duty, United
States Marine Corps, April 19,
_1954, and honorably released
from active duty and
transferred to Marine Corps
Reserve October 17, 1958

i

i

| + Citizenship - United States citizen de

i Marital Status Married PATRICIA A, SULLIVAN ‘

: z on August 6, 1963, at Miami,. Beare

4 Florida : . ice

H Residence 1036 Southwest Fifth. Street,

i : Apartment #2, Miami, Florida
Exploynment Unesployed

Social Security No. 55444-8667

anit sh Po

sesso lier

