04016710282

~ St

DRAFT
8 duly 1959

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: The Diaz Lanz Case

le

i
3
|
i
!

Bernie Reichhardt phoned me on the morning of 8 July to report that

}
Diaz Lanz and his wife are enroute to Washington by train and should arrive

about mid-day 8 duly.

Investigatér for the Senate Sub Committee on Internal Security.

2.

the information concerning Diaz' arrival to the press.

They are being brought here by SCHROEDER (fm),

1

Reichhardt phoned later in the day to report that IKS had reeased

The release says.

Diaz entered the United States on 1 duly by a small private craft and after
prpcceh
investigation he was declared a resident alien, and his wife vas maPtiied.

The release also says that Diaz had asked INS not to reveal his whereabouts.

_ 3s. Reichhardt also reported the following infornation received from

BYERS,

A

Be

“friend of Diaz' in Miami with whom we have had contact:
Sergio Diaz and Carlos Echigoyea (formerly a civilian in
Cuban Air Force Intelligence), who had obtained a boat in
Miami wifich was used to bring Dias from.Cuba, had gone to
see BYERS inmediately after their release by Immigration
and Naturalization, They were accompanied by one Frank
Fiorini, an American citizen with a reputation as a shady
businessnan who lives in Miami.

Seheendes
They said that _Scheder, told Pedro Diaz in their presence

that he is: to appear before the Sub Committee in a secret

session. Schoder also told Pedro Diaz that he could be

assured of 100% United States Government cooveration in

overthrowing CASTRO,
detach teet, esansamniinin

Stee

|
|
oe

~

VY


CR ARRAN me eR a At meena nanny meen nee rent cae

Cc.

De

Ee

h.
Fiorini.

vonage adie nrtevtemiinic”

* }
2. if

Prior to Diaz" departur. the Cuban Air Force had purchased one
C-L6 and one B~25 aircraft in the Miand area. The aireraft

are in BYERS' custody at present, but are in Fiorini's naxe.
This was done to circumvent refusal of the United States
Governnent to grant export licenses. Until 7 duly Fiorini}
was attempting to force BYERS to sell the aircraft and turn 5
the money over to him (Fiorini).

On 8 july, togetaer with Sergio Diaz, Fiorini asked BYERS
£0 hold onto the C-L6 and sell the B-25, Both men said

they would need the C-46 for their revolutionary plans.
The Cuban Air Force, according to BYERS, is aware of the
situation concerning the two aircraft and will probably
attenpt to forestall any disposition other than one which
will. give then ultimate possession of the planes.

Reichhard eaye that the loca? FSI hes an active case on

=

