# 104-10176-10031

## Page 1

104-10176-10031

RETURN TO CIA

Parie nund Use Only

sproguce

SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET 30 i une 52

DESTRECTIONS: Officer designations should be used in so -TO" column.

Under each comment a line shord be drawn across steet

and each comment numbered to serrespond with the nur ser in the "TO" esiumn.

Each chicer should initia! (check mark insuffiase)

before further routing.

This Pring and Record Shee. should be retired to Regisiry.

FROM:

NO:5 12-6.805

WE/ITI

DATE 24 June 53

TO

ROOH

NO

OFFICERS

INITIALS

CONCHENTI

Scehater

DATE

RIC'D

24,399

124

25,553

Doerflinger

Eg lary

26 1655

2.79

1y26

16

77.

RI/SC /Matter

S*C

"F./ITI

84,

PI

F9816490 51-10

220}

30, 895

Who Eage

3017

-C522+ 1055

2=0

SECRET

71.1

DATE 2 JUL" 1953°

7/800

---

## Page 2

14-00000

Granite-

windlen

1

1....

90s

7P0Ms

Cornissioner

Trend Tatia and letsalization Servico

Attentler: 1. Famori P. Parrell

Departy Direstor, 20%8

Pile D3. A 719T7683:3

Referenco 1s sade to jour request for a nam check- inter

for any derorator, inforaatin contained in tho files a this leercy

ooncerning Rolazio Arcadio HIS TiER I SOJAS.

The falloring 13 a sarsary of the razy renarts amallable

•concorsing one Polindo MISPREEZ, uho 1s probably lientical vith the

Bubfoot of your roquest.

no part In a slodier attent in 1:47, nainly because of norecna

Ifferences which aross fron the 1947 vanture. Ho retained greet

interest, however, In the overrow of the Dominican and leuragan

avernants.

Asother urally rellatle source renortod ea 7 tsust 1950

that Congressars ñolando Hi78919, & former monter of tha Commist

Partis, was knowa to Lay exoressed great adiration for the 72001

Coversont's social lecialation, an it resulted in the sonovsent

of th, living conditlens of the worldng classes.

So A 1a191- ra1f8kie soarce ponorted on 10 iny 1031 that

Rolando MASTERRER obtained nosey f on the P.ROll roverent. MUSTARRE

nado a trio to 1g atíar severil joire ajo, and sines that tise bas

morted the P 221 governat in lila publioation, Miong en Cula..

It was bellored that Mi3":80 & wer working for PION, udth the view

es artending Pirat's sobero of Influonce to Vonezuela sad the Domindemn

Ropalio, and evectually to the central snarioan count tor.

HI COPY

SECRET

- 1. EMO

201-49669-1

---

## Page 3

-..

Securily Intormatisg

= 2

6. In Ostober 1951 a usually rollaila sourge psorted that

Rolando MiSSTRI. fought in the Spanish Cloll War under the cormand

of Valentin GINaliz (1] Comealno).

YA? POR defended CONCALE In

the controversy oscaring the latter In the Cuben crass during

GliALize vialt to Dule 1r 1251.

7. Arother fairly reliable source martod 0s 7 Outober 155%

that, accoring to informs in obtoined by tar Nati nel secutive

Bourd of the Partido Soclalista Foruler (PS?, Cutra Exermist Party),

Rolanio M.SP.R.r, together with some lesdary of the zued forcos

uho wished to lanse a rilitary ilotator his in Cars, tad a forco of

abut two or thres Andred anal run to, si a rivey sinal, truld

attack the molice sition, soizo tho radio stati i, ari stage a

street riot salist the rorrment.

While carrying or this operatior

the revolutionists would kill several sollochon and it

torment on call at ==i unt us for reat so condies such acte,

and to decree volent renrisals seniry. tha Partido Benlucinario

Subano (FRe, Autestico), tha Partido dol Zeblo Caben (PRC, Ortodoxo),

an particularly against the tommists.

CS DB-6805

21. June 1953

T17-1212

ENE-118

T:H-1562

TXH-1782

WH/III

Distribation:

RI

RG

STC

STC/ICE

NH/10D

SECRET

---

