# 104-10057-10116

## Page 1

104-10057-10116

0

REFRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROMIBITEO

POR

ACTION UNI

SB 8

ACTIONIN

OcAI

FILE. VR

MEURO, CI, aJaRs, El CAS epeRel, afiaz

add: NE8

SECRET 0921006 MAR 72 CITE

DIRECTOR

REDTOP AEKICK SMABOVE

REFS 8 A.

722641 (IN 554475)

B. DIRECTOR 240808

19664

9 HAR N 556675

Lo ANNAHAR ARTICLE HAS BEEN GIVEN REPLAY ON

LOCAL RADIO MORNING 9 MARCH AND AGAIN IN EVENING

PAPER "OTTAWA JOURNAL" 9 MARCH COMPLETE WITH PICIURE

OF PETROVSKIY TRYING TO AVOID PHOTOGRAPHER AS HE

ENTERED SOV EMB MORNING S MARCH. AS ITEM BEING

CARRIED BY CANADIAN PRESS (CP) • EXPECT IT MAY DE

REPLAYED OTHER MAJOR CANADIAN NEWSPAPERS AND WILL

WATCH SEE IF IT SETS COVERAGE CBC TV NEWS TONIGHT•

20 STRICTLY FYI, IN CONVERSATION UITN

SMASOVE/ 11

SAID THEY HAD BEEN PREPARED FOR ARTICLE

WITH SMOTH. THEY HAD TEXI IN ADVAWCE AND

PLACED IT WITH THEIR CONTACÌ SIDEN AS FOR SURFACING

9 MARCH IN CPO: HOWEVER, THERE HAD DEEN A FLAP WHICH

WAS STILL ON GOING BECAUSE IDEN A'S SUPERIOR WANTED

CONFIRMATION THAT ARTICLE HAD APPEARED AND CP HAD BEEN

+ 0000263

---

## Page 2

13-00000

ADVAICE CONY

04 07900

380907

GROUP !

When fled la

102098890

OZFZODUCTION OP THIS COPY PROMIOITEO

0v

AT:

3

PED

ACTION UNIT

ACTION NO

FILE, VR

PAGE THO

19664 S

CRET

UNABLE TO GIVE SUCH ASSURANCE. IDEN A APPEALED

IN DESPERATION TO SMABOVE FOR CONFIRMATION, WHICH

THEY UNABLE TO GIVE. ON BASIS REFS,

_WAS ABLE

ASSURE SMABOVE/11 ARTICLE HAD APPEARED AND ALSO

PICKED UP BY AFP THO NOT UPI SO FAR.: GREATLY

RELIEVED, SMASOVE/11 SAID HE WOULD CALL HIS CONTACT

INMEDIATELY AND ASSURE HIM EVERYIHING

dAS. BACK ON

THE RAILS.

3. THIS LITTLE EXERCISE HAS PROVEN WHAT

ALWAYS SUSPECTED, THAI UNDER SMABLE/S DIRECTION

GABOVE IS GETTING MORE ACTIVE IN ABOVE TYPE ACTIVITY

AND HAS ABILITY TO SURFACE OR REPLAY ARTICLES FROM

TIME TO TIME. IN ADDITION TO ALSO CONFIRMING THEIR

MAN IN CP.

SHABOVE LI MENIIONED ANOTHER NAME OF PRESS

CONTACT/ (IDEN B) - THEY MAY USE TO GET AN ARTICLE DONE

ON RIS TYPES IN

UNITED NATIONS AND ASSOCIATED

INTERNATIONAL

ORGANIZATIUTS.

4O POUCHING CLIPS.

5. FILE: 201-258015. GP-1

SECHEF

---

