104-10422-10053}

THE FINAL PHASE (MOPPING UP) OF THE OSWALD REVIEW:

COMPUTER PRINT OUT - RE-DECLASSIFICATION

Ir

OFFICIAL FILE - documents that have been marked for

Se or partial DC must be so noted for

fare readers/reviewers. We have suggested to Mr.

hat a complete package of the sterile documents

x-refed to the CS documents. This pakage will be

“(Mt

pr,

ached as another volume or bulky to the 201 file.

td is supposed to be discussing thismatter.) —

rr

é, description and reason for non-release. This can ~~

bably be done in conjunction with review of computer ~

——————print-out.-"Wevalso may~have~to-attache-an-actual “copy

a Off

a i
- __.... A_FOIA_check_sheet (see. attachient) indicating.the

disposition of the document. plus we must stamp.the sterile_

_Sopy as downgraded. _

each-document-to-this: list--I-will- find -out.---~--~-

|
--RELEASED.-DOCUMENTS 3... 2. =. - = Sey

{It may. be necessary. for..us_to attach_to..each. document...

_I_am_not sure that we have.

do it or Ethel'

it has to be done.)

Along with the sterile copies of the documents going

to

FOIA/Randall's office, there must be attached bo:

the “red-lined" copy and the "cut & pasted" copy of the

- dodument. Aggain--perhaps Ethél's shop will do’ this.

‘city | -thdse-two items in Iv must be decidea__ [> Al Mae h
; atl 2

Gig TLR EURAIL PAT ~
PPS bene oe ep



13-00000

SENDER WILL CHECK CLASSIFICATION TOP ANO BOTTOM
ee CONFIDENTIAL SECRET

OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP
5 NAME AND ADDRESS INITIALS

|_| DIRECT REPLY PREPARE REPLY

| APPROVAL. DISPATCH RECOMMENDATION
FILE

Simpy
to
bye Guthority of

Se

FOLD HERE TO RETURN TO SENDER:
FROM: NAME, ADDRESS AND PHONE NO.

SECRET

UNCLASSIFIED CONFIDENTIAL

Foam WO. 937 Use previous editions 2 GPO: 1974 © - $55-857 (40)



es TOP SECRET re SECRET CONFIDENTIAL UNCLASSIFIED
C] CL] O

a TSC No.
een i Request No.:
Part of
Return to: Document Identification

(No., Title, Date, etc.):
Classification Programs Branch
Information Systems Analysis Staff
Room 2E-42, Headquarters Building

REVIEW WORKSHEET

(Do not detach from document) _ Expendable Copy: Yes
No
PART I. Findings and Recommendations a

f] a. No objection to declassification and/or release.

£7 b. No objection to declassification and/or release, but clearance(s) :
should be obtained from the following CIA components, US agencies, or
foreign governments:

yam f c. Document is unclassified or may be declassified, but it is privileged
under exemption(s) of the Freedom of Information
Act and, as a matter of policy, should not be made available. The
Office of General Counsel (has, has not) concurred in this determina~
tion. (Go to PART II.)

Y ae f d. Declassification is impossible at this time. Applicable exemption(s)
under E. 0. 11652 is . Document may be automatically de-
classified on Z .. (Go to PART II.)

"OE: PaRT IL, Sanitization
[7] a. Sanitization is impossible or inadvisable.

/ sy | b. Sanitized version may be released provided that certain information is
excised, (If "Expendable Copy," bracket material to’be deleted in red.
If not an "Expendable Copy," indicate material to be deleted in the
space below, citing page, paragraph, line etc. Use continuation sheet

if needed.)
r
Reviewer
Downgraded to Name or Employee No.
when detached Component
: Bate of Review
im TOP SECRET fi] SECRET Oo CONFIDENTIAL ia UNCLASSIFIED

5om3724 me
