# 104-10320-10056

## Page 1

104-10320-10056 CLASSIFIED

MING

request - Claude V. D'Unger

FROM:

Charles E. Savige

IRS/DD.!,: 2250

TO: (Oificar designation, room number, ond

building)

DATE

RECEIVED

FORWARDED

DDO/FIO

2B1415 (CT-S, AMBER)

2.

EXTENSION

5659

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

•ABE

cilstaff

249 mr 75

5.

7.

8.

9.

10.

11.

12.

PETURN TO.

CI/EXO

cyis/ hus Vorter

DDO / FIO

In Randall

Kristico

IDENTIAL

IN SECRET

AROUES

75-1973

DATE SENT

23

June 1975

SUSPENSE 01T26 June 1975

COMMENIS (Numbor eoct commons lo shou

from

to whor.:

Dion o lino aeros colume oftor.

each

„Eomcont.)

Fred:

Get reat

He don't have to do research and

create a document fos this requeste

Is

such a

"List" in existence? ap

I questioned Scott Breckinridge

about it.

He said that the IC

Staff did not have a list, and

he doubted whether CI Ops did.

(FYI: D'Unger has requested:

Warren Commission documents

NARS. WARS has steered him toward

the Agency Ic a couple of classific

Items, so we can expect other re-

quests.)

I have attached a copy of ir

Crooks' speed letter, which

provides an informative and

responsive answer to Mr. D'Ung

We should hold the line on the

proper classification of the.

documents.

This should then b

extended to the list of decu-

ments, since the subject

entries were deliberately made

as informative as possible.

Thus we cite exenptions (b) (1)

(properly classified) and

(b) (3) (sources and methods).

EnoN 3746

1.75

SECRET

ESZ IMPDET. CL BY 06/473

aNOT

773

CoNFIDES HELD ME ARE 21. 6/4

REALEG

Cases

UACLASSIFIEO

---

