OLITIOGOE).. sce ongsemer amy ree wuraveuries pf Ge

: fe [. SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER TY
ISSUING OFFICE 1s PROH! SIT.

at) PERSON/UNIT NGTIFIED.

ap : IN. 912356
TORSO819462 MAY 73 PAR 38909

J 223194 PAGE @1

S EG RE T 9847032 MAY 73 STAFF
cite[___|3eee9
104 DIRECTOR, , ue
RYBAT PLMHABYSS : ;
REFt DIRECTOR 299824 :

2, 8 MAY: SSSUE OF LE FIGARO HAS ARTICLE ON MARCEL oe
FRANCISC! TRIAL WHICH TOOK PLACE ON 7 MAY IN PARIS AND.
WHIGH WILL BE CONTINUED ON 34 MAY. TRIAL TAKING PLACE
BECAUSE FRANCISCI HAS BROUGHT DEFAMATION PROCEEDINGS
AGAINST "TIME MAGAZINE, WHICH ACCUSED HIM OF BEING ONE
OF "GRAND BONNETS DE LA DROGUEM, , ae

2. STAR WITNESS FOR THE DEFENSE {TIME MAGAZINE)
{ WAS AMERICAN LAWYER HERBERT eee A WITNESS
FOR THE PROSECUTION IN. NUMEROUS TRIALS OF NAFIA LEADERS
IN THE STATES AND WHO CLAIMS TO HAVE HAD NARCOTICS DEALINGS
IN 4967 WETH MARCEL F, ITKIN ALSO CLAIMED To WORK FOR
BKHERALD AS WELL AS FOR THE FBI, SEVERAL FORMER BNDD
AGENTS NHO WERE ACTIVE IN FRANCE, WERE AT HAND TO TESTIFY
AGAINST FRANCISC], DEFENSE WANTED TO INTRODUCE INFO FROM
LOUIS DOUHERET LETTER ROGATOIRE WHICH. FOR PROCEDURAL

ee eile SECRET

Francast


+ CABLE SEG DISSEM BY. PER... TOTAL Copies

peRSON/UNIT NOTIFIED. SECRET ISSUING OFFICE Is PROMT
"__ADVANCE COPY ISSUED/SLOTTED BY. AT z AGENCY MESSES
erneaeat Vy) RF FILE. vR . 4
: 7 5
Lye YF i
i bd :
T 223394 : PAGE 92-02 IN 912356

TOR30819462 MAY 73 38909

REASONS, WAS NOT PERNITTED 6Y THE COURT.

3. GMBASSY NARCOTICS COORDINATOR NR. CUSTER
ATTENDED THE TRIAL, JF HO INTERESTED STATION CAN SEND
CLIPPINGS. :

5 SECREY
