# 104-10300-10096

## Page 1

1104-10300-100961

TO

:

FROM. :

GATIONAL FORM NO. 1D

3010-100

ME IN. ECITION

Side 808-94 did la. tir. 27

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Menorandum

ЗR00ET

Chief, Personnel Security Division

Special Assistant, Chief/PSD

DATE: 1 June 196

SUBTECT:

I. In compliance with your request, the Subject wes

Interviewed on 27 May 1964 relative to the information

she reported to Mr. John R. Pherson, security Officer/

DDSET, which is indicated as Tab A.

2. Upon interview, the Subject repeated substentially

the some inforation that is reported in Mi. Pherson's

merorendum.

Additional information indicates that Subject

definitely identified the telephone caller from the Prince

George County Maryland ballot as Mrs. Kathryn N. Sherwood.

Mrs. Sherwood's name apreared as 33-E on the ballot.

3.

During the telephone conversation Subject stated

that she came under the definite impression that Mrs. Shertood

resides in the oxon Hill, Narylend area due to the fact she

mentioned thai some road

construction" as

being done which bes

Locardone in the Oxon Hill area recently.

4. Subject stated that she did not desire to place

pressure on Mrs. Sherwood for further inforation concerning

the rime end whereabouts of the "ex-CIA Courier" who told Mrs.

Sherwood that President Kernedy would be assassinated end the

President's assacsin would also be assassinated.

Subject ad

vised that crervood stated that the "ex-CIA Courier" lived in

Vest Virginia (city or town not given) where there vas a

Sherwood advised the Subject that the food did

not agree with the "ex-CIA Courier" and she (Sherwood) took

hin into town for meals.

Sherwood further indicated that the

"Courier" told her that he "had too much krowledge" indicating

that the latter tas the reason he left the Agency, Sherwood

stated tiat: the "or-Courier" told her a lot of things relative

to peorie in high places in the Government which was quite

shocizing and the inforration worried her (Shermood) very nuch.

Document Number

1279-466A

for FOlA Review on

FEB 1977

---

## Page 2

13-00000

---.

5.

Subject advised that during her voting experience

she had made it a point to vote for the man and not the

Elaborating, Subject stated that she liked

Roosevelt and voted for Eisenhower. Subject stated that

she edvised Sherwood during the telephone conversation that

she liked President Kennedy's stand in Cuba vhereupon

Sherwood said "too bad he las sclling us doin the river".

Shermood did not elaborate on the latter statement accord

ing to the subject. Subject stated that the telepione

conversation lasted about one lalf hour end upon discon-

tinuance of the omarsation she (Subject advised her

husband.

advised that her husband is in

wensitive tons nur the fr force end inadiaiely adried

Subject to report the telemenre conversation to proper

officials of the Agency.

stated trat she could not

Eive further clues concerning the identity of the "ex-CIA

courier" or the location in Vest Virginia veere Shercod

associated with the "ex-CIA Courier".

6.

I requested the Subject to keep me advised of any

additional calls, infornation or contact with Sherrood.

7. I recormend that the attached information be

passed to Mr. Cregar by the DC/PSD.

His spe

in D/stic.

Leland E. Bunny

LEB 130)

BRET

---

