# 104-10186-10201

## Page 1

104-10186-10201

INFORMATION REPORT.

INFORMA LION REPOR

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

Thla macertal containa information alecting the Marional Defens d° ese Valled Blares mula the medalne of lse RAptoOne LATA Tite

18. USC

Beca, 198 and 794, Uho LAnAMISion of retelmlion ol which la any maliner lo an undultoriara percos le prohibited by law

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

REPORT NO.

DATE DISTR

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

COUNTRICuba

CSCI316/00559-65

SUBJECT Fernando PASCUAL Perez

(alias

"Alejandro"

9 February 1965

RETURN TO CIA

1

DATE OF1964

Background Use Only

INFO.

Do Not Reproduce

CS-311/00115-6€

(page 7) 8 July 1961

PLACE & Washington,

CSCI-316/00270-64

D. C.

20 July 1964

DATE ACQUanUary 1965

FIELD REPORT. NO.

THIS 15 UNEVALUATED

INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE

SOURCE: A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Service until April 1964.

Headquarters Comments

the following report is one of a series containing personality

nformation provided by the source and includes supplemental

information from the records of this Agency.

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any of

the individuals mentioned in the personality reports without

first checking with

further questioning of source concerning additional

one of the original members of the Direccion

General de Inteligencia (General Directorate of Intelligence

1): PASCUAL is a specialist in illegal operations in Salvador

and Panama.

PASCUAL was born in about 1940. He is a Caucasian and is

five feet six inches tall, weighs 135 pounds, and has a slender

build. PASCUAL is fond of cars and women.

Headquarters Comment

1. Aside fron the information forwarded in the above referenced

reports, this Agency has no additional identifiable information

on PASCUAL.

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

INSA

STATE

1 ARMY.

CINCLANT CINCSO #

_I&YS

(Note: field distributica indicated bry *a".)

1 OCR

LEBL 2

INFORMATLON REPORT

LICLÍLIA

LICURIA

NORMATION REPORT

HIL/SAJ1O3I1

_HE ALLADH

L/SALR

1

5

RULE

TOTALS

RIV/AS

W78/SA 8 (1), WE 1 (2), CI 4, RID 1

61A1SON

1925-1

1L5-1838

MUFGA 19020(24Decb7)

YO PROJECT (AMMUGY)

GSC1-316/00559-56

COORDINATING'RELEAS

Bi'S

SLi

---

