# 104-10422-10307

## Page 1

104-10422-10307

UNZLASSIFIED

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

CONFIDENTIAL

SECRET

SUBJECT: (Optional)

FROM:

Freedom of Information Request

Judy Cli

-LA/Mexic

(DU-7)

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and

building) :

EXTENSION

9041

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

NO.

DATE

31 July 1975

COMMENTS (Number, sach comment to how from whom

to whom Draw a line across column after each comment.)

C/LA/Mexico

DATE

RECEIVED.

FORWARDED

1 AUG 1975

2.

3.

4.

7.

So bie 7

C/ LA/EICO

Mr:

Sturbitts

DDO/ Fio

8.

"9.

10.

11:

12.

13.

14.

15.

FORM

3-62

...F

• I USE PREVIOUS

DITIONI

SECRET

7 CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 2

13-00000

31 July 1975

MEMORANDUM FOR: LA/EICO

Mr. William Sturbitts

SUBJECT

:

Review of Lee Harvey OSWALD 201 File

for Freedom of Information Request

REFERENCE

: Request Number 75-105, 2 June 1975

1:

A review of the Lee Harvey OSWALD file (201-289248)

has been completed by the Mexican Branch in connection with

reference Freedom of Information request.

Most of the

information contained in the file that pertains to Mexico

came from sensitive sources and methods, such as photo

surveillance;:

and mail

intercept

operations.

Although the mail intercept and photo

surveillance activities have been dicontinued, the fact

that they were in operation in Mexico continues to be

considered sensitive.

2. The Mexican information reviewed covered three

areas

a .

Sylvia DURAN Tirado. A Mexican female

employed by the Cuban Embassy in

Mexico who provided

assistance to OSWALD in his attempts to obtain a Cuban

visa.

Information regarding DURAN appears in the Warren

Report, however, it is not attributed to the Agency.

The Government of Mexico (GOM) did arrest and interrogate

DURAN re her connection with OSWALD, and a copy of the

GOM deposition appears in the Report. The deposition was

turned over to the Commission by the

GOM via State Department.

Since knowledge of DURAN's contact with OSWALD originally

came to both the GOM's and Agency's attention|

all mention of Agency knowledge or

participation in DURAN's arrest and subsequent interrogation

has been marked for non-release.

b.

Photo of unidentified man taken in front of

the Soviet Embassy in Mexico.

This photo was taken by

Station Mexico photo surveillance of the Soviet Embassy

during the month of October 1963.

When news of the

arrest of OSWALD as Keenedy's assassin became known,

the Station immediately forwarded copies of the photo

to the FBI in the mistaken assumption that the photo

was of OSWALD taken while he was in Mexico that fall.

It was later determined that the photo was not of OSWALD

and in fact had been taken after he had departed Mexico.

(OSWALD was in Mexico from 26 September thru 3 October 1963.)

Even though the photo was not of OSWALD it had been shown

to OSWALD's wife and mother, with the background partially

---

## Page 3

13-00000

-2-

cropped in an effort to disguise the place where the

photo had been taken. The photo became somewhat of an

issue when the Warren Commission decided it belonged

in the Report as

part of the exhibits since it had been

shown to the OSWALDs. The Agency finally allowed the

picture to appear in the report with the background

completery blocked out and with the agreement that no

mention would be made about where it had been taken.

As far as can be determined, the Agency has never

admitted publicly that the

photo was taken in Mexico,

even though there has been a great deal of speculation

to that effect by several authors and journalists.

As

a matter of fact, one of the lawyers who worked with the

Commission later

leaked information to an author regarding

the photo, but erroneously said it had been taken in

front of the Cuban Embassy in Mexico by CIA.

Still,

the Agency has not revealed the actual location, only

saying it was taken somewhere outside the U.s.

A11

mention of the photo has

therefore been marked to be

withheld,

because .of

involved.

sensitive sources and methods

c .

Gilberto ALVARADO Ugarte. ALVARADO, a

Nicaraguan citizen, walked in to the U.S. Embassy in

Mexico, claiming to have knowledge re Kennedy's assasination.

It was learned that ALVARADO was an agent for the Nicaraguan

Intelligence Service (NIS.), however his story re the

assassination was separate from his work for the NIS. After

Lengthy interrogation, including a polygraph, it was

letermined that ALVARADO had been fabricating

a story claiming

he had seen OSWALD receive money

the Cüban Embassy in Mexico.

from a Cuban

official at

The ALVARADO story appears

in the Warren Report but it does not reveal his identity., In

order to continue to protect ALVARADO and the Nicaraguan

government from possible embarrassment all mention of

ALVARADO has been marked for non-release.

2. A list and copies of douments from the OSWALD file

have been forwarded to your office for review by other LA

branches and possibly other Divisions.

The documents are marked

according to which volume they belong in the 201 file (there

are 57 volumes plus many bulky attachments.).

""?.

3.

During the review, it was necessary

several times to

refer to the Warren Report

and the exhibits to ascertain

exactly what was already known about the Mexican aspect of the

case.

It is doubtful that the other branches will find this

necessary, but in case they do, the

Warren Report is held

in the Library.

Jack Mathews

C/LA/Mexico

---

