# 104-10182-10091

## Page 1

104-10182-10091

CHILE OF STAIICH, MAHAVE

CHO NOR EXTIN

TOTO

No CHILE, SHO

_ MUTEN LIVINGSTCH HER BELL BICGRAFHIC. SKETCH

ACTION REQUIRED - FYI

RETURN 7O CIA

Background Use Only.

Do Not Reproduce

REFERENCE - UFGA- 23126, 20 SEPTEMBER 1965 - RECENT DETENTIC OF AMLEC-3

WER BELL, 201-259910, WAS BORN 8 MARCH 1918 IN PHILADELPHIA

DURING WORLD WAR II HE

SERVED WITH THE CSS IN BURMA AND CHINA.

AFTER HIS DISCHARGE, HE OPENEU AN AOVERTISING AND PUBLIC RELATION:

FIRM IN ATLANTA, GECRGIA.

THIS BUSINESS FAILED AND HE BECAME INVOLVEO

IN IMPORT-EXPCAT TRADE AND PROMOTION WORK IN CENTRAL AMERICA AND THE

CARIBBCAN.

HE VAS GRANTED A POA ON 13 JULY 1959 BUT WAS CONTACTED ONLY

OCCASICNALLY AT HEADQUARTERS UNTIL ME WAS TERMINATED IN OCTCEER 1955.

IT WAS DETERMINED THAT HE HAD NO WERTHWHILE INFORMATICN TO CFFER NOR

WAS HE ABLE TO DEVELOP ANY.

HE WAS ASSESSED BY HEADQUARTERS AS A

"'WIELLER DEALER'' TYPE WITH CONSIDERABLE INTELLIGENCE BUT UNABLE TO

REALIZE MUCH SUCCESS IN PROMOTIUN WORK AND THAT HIS APPROACHES TO KUBARK

WERE DESIGNED FRIMARILY TO CATAIN FINANCIAL SUPPORT.

IN MAY 1962 WER BELL WAS IN MANAGUA AS VICE FRESIDENT OF

SURFLUS ARMS.

SURPLUS CARASS INTERS ALSO ATTER TING TO SELL AN INTERMATIONAL

OF NASSAU, ATTEMPTING TO SELL NATC

IAVESTIGATICN SERVICE OFFERED UNDER WORLOWIDE INFORMATICN SERVICE

INC.. WHICH WER BELL CLAIMED TO OWN. HE WAS NOT SUCCESSFUL IN EITHER

WER BELL WAS REPORTEO IN THE DOMINICAN REPUELIC IN

DECEMBER 1964 ASSCCIATED WITH FINCA /FRUTAS INTERCONTINENTALES, *-

• POR A/• AN ORGANIZATICN WHICH EXTORTS FRUIT FROM THE DCMINICAN REPLELES

LATER: URING THE FIGHTING IN SANTO DOMINGO, HE WAS WITH AMCARBON -I

WHEN THE LATTER WAS WOUNDED.

ERNEST A. LUSBY

DISTRIBUTICN BY TAPE

3 - COS, IMWAVE

aw. 9 and i tea

D19-132-5

Distribution:

1 - WH/C/ESEC

1- WH/C/MO

AIM SINIST 8459.99919

LUFGH-5573

SECRET

WH/C/40/PM

C/WH/C/MO

CATE

261-259910

- 28 SEFTEMBER 1965

7. Mu80.18 pisse.

19-132-5

ORICT ATTI

:4215

Walter Cla

CAND

• 53

LEE FEE:

"HITtLes V. Broe

DISPATCH

3/000

---

