# 104-10192-10030

## Page 1

104-10192-10030

REPORT COVER SHEET

SECRET

0818 IF MERLE

11 October 1965

•Fu-7593

JINNAVE

Henry J. SLOMAN':

MATE CIFFICER

PROJ.

5'CE CR.

ANOT- & AMTAUR 2

DACAGROUNO DATA AND CO

TYPIC

Hoctor FORTUN

SOURCE:

Para.

Fargas

in AMOT roport DD 1002g.

1 and first sentonce of para 1965, from Jorge

15 Septombor

GUTIERREL UIID..

Paras. 2'and I and the second sontonco of.

para 6:

• FORTUN In AMOT report DD-1622 datod 29 Soptomber 1905,

from Orlando BOSCH Avila.

Para. 3 from Enrique ESTRADA Prado

3.n MOT report DD-1615 dated 22 Septomber 1965.

Tho Fiold Commont is basod on UFG 7587.

RI:

Indox for JWAVE:

QUERALT, Roger

DPOB:

secty of torolg rolations. of MIRR In Puvrto

Rico.

Close friond

01 Garcia-Godoy, Pios of DRe

Group 1:

Excluded from

Automatic Downgrading

and Declassification

OPTIONAL:

EMTRIES BELOW NEED NOT ME PILLED IN I PUPLICATEN IN ACCUMPANYING REPORT

DISTRIBUTION

INTRA-AREACE

Miami reps of:

HDC I

1 - 1195•

400/0-110-10

2 - Santo Dominge

IVe -Caracas 316-11

COUNTHY

MICKOFILMED

OCT: 11655

MWA.R68d4Y

State

FBI

I&NS

Customs

USCG

go.

OF ENCLOSURES

BÚSIECT

CS COPY:

PADA

, - N2 70

- 00

1467

U88

PNEVIOUR

EDITION.

Nas N don

MI PAGES

19-300-50

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

*Do Not Reproduce

---

## Page 2

FIELO INFOTMATION REPORT

::.

...

Cour Cuba

sualci, do Acilvitlos and Plans of too

Insurroctional Movement for

3.

Rovolutionary Recovery (BIRR)

Allogod Unity of Counterrevo

lutiouary Groups in Cuba

9 to 26 September 1965

United 'States

Miant

(15 to 29

Soptembor 1965)

COSFIDENTIAL

CONTRULLED DISSEN

REFISRINIO

DATE OF RISORI 11 Octobor 1965

NO PAGIS

REFERENCES

DAIL C':

INFO

PLACE S

DATIANC

D:04Pi1

UT G 7593

€115

SOURCE:

A member of a group of Cuban enigres trained in the techniques

of intormation colloction, The group has providod usoful re-

ports since 1961.

1.

On 9 Soptomber 1965 Jorgo Gutierroz Ulla, press socretary of

the

Moviniento Insurreccional de Recuperacion kovolucionaria

(MIRR, Insurroctional Movesent for Revolutionary Recovory) said

that Orlando Bosch Avila,

over

head of the Mirn,

1s very optinistic

the designation of Hector Garcia-Godoy Cacores as Provi

sioual Prosident of the Dominican Republic.

According to Bosch,

Rogor Queralt,

secretary of foreign relations of tho MIRR in

Puerto, la a close friend of Garcia-Godoy'e.

Queralt drafted

a lottor, which was signed by Bosch' queralt expect assistance

congratulating Gardia-Godoy

ou his appointment.

Both Bosch and

from Garcia-Godoy for the MIRR.

2.

On 26 September Bosch said that the MIRR 1e regaining strength.

and that it 1s buying all of the army that aro

boins sold by

emigro organizations.

do commented that it la becoming

soro difficult to got arus in the United States.

Ho said that

bofore the end of 1965 the MIRR will carry out a "chain of nctiong

which will make Fidol Castro Ruz tremblo", and will raise the

hopes of the emigres.

3.

Sosetime before 22 Septomber, the MIRR bought 200 rounds of 20mm

ammunition,

and orderod 200 rounds of 75mm annunition from

Service Armaments Company, 689 Bergen Boulevard, Ridgeflold,

New Jersey, a company fros which the Mikk has bought armanents

in the past.

CONFIDENTIAL.

CONTROLILSD DISSEM

MISTRIFUTC

MAS RI COPY

---

## Page 3

5.

6.

CONTROLSO PISSSA

UrG 1503

-2 s

on 21 septenter bouch said thar the frecuelve Comilitoo of tho

WIRR had

"approved the tdon" of attacing a ship wiled trades

with Cuba.

Ho sald that the attici

place anywhoro in

tho world,

will in soon, and my take

in a port or. on

the

high soar.

Porsonnel and equipront which is oulsido of the Unlted Statos

will be usod for

this

operation.

After the attack, at a prose

conforonco, tho Mill will "declare war" on all countrles which

trade with

Cuba.

At. tho press conference bosch will presont a:

"logal cosplaint" insisting that the Mikk has the "right of

bolllgorencot to operate tros torritory ol tho Valtod States.

Bosch added that the MIRK delegation In Venezuela will try to

gain tho support of the port workers of Venezuela la the

"doclarallon of war."

Bosch

sald on 26 Soptomber that ho expected

ment from Cuba soon

to receivo a docu

which would "give proof" that clandestine

groups in

Cuba havo agreed to unite into a single front.

MIRR will be nanod to represent the new group abroad bocause

the organtzation in Cuba knows that the MIRR is not a "phanton

organization", that it has not "sold isolf", and that it takos

guidance from

no one "who is not strictly Cuban,"

when

the

document is recolved it will be announced at a press

conference.

According to Guiterrez; the MiRR has

received "considerable"

money from people in

Rico.

Bosch

Tampa, New York,

California and Puerto

said that he will soon solicit nondy

'from the

Cuban ainicipal organizations (in exile) to help the MIrr

carry

out its

plans.

Fiold Commont.

A recent report from an indepondent source ro

ported on a

mooting betwoon ropresentativos of tho MIRR and

the Asociacion para la Reconstruccion Econonica Cubana (AREC,

Association

for tho Economic Reconstruction of Cuba) on 15

September 1965.

The pu pose of

the meeting,

called by the

MIRR, was to ask the AREC for money

to finance MIRR operations,

to which the AREC agrood. At the meeting Bosch spoko of the

action plans of tho MIRR, in general terms,

including an attack

on a foreigu vessol.

He also spoko

on the

unity of the

counterrevolutionary groups in Cuba.

CONFIDENTIAL

CONTROLLED DISSEM

---

