# 104-10263-10139

## Page 1

104-10263-10139

SECRET

(WrEN PILLIO 24)

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

LASTRICTICAS

# *E

FED. 00

PRIOR TO FILING

1. F1ll in Sect. 2. on back. Detach back

flap and forward to RID.

2. Destroy front cover sheet, unless it

records significant action taken or

conments reguiring preservation.

FROM:

TO: ACTION BRANCH

It filo no. and title shown are not

proper.

insert proper file no. bolen

and forward document to RID/AN.

RID

TO: ALL ADDRESSEES

FILL IN BECTION I ON BACH, IN APPROPAIATE

COMMENTE

TO

Aews

ROOM

NO.

BATE

8.

$.

IP/OMS -

7.

Thet

MSg

5-T 72

55oT7

1y det for C3518

Gat Prited offissse

handler these spans 06

89383

4 J0eal, 116z

C

RYBAT

10.

11.

12.

Y3.

846.

" B.

ARTURN THIS UNWATER TO MU FOR

MICROpTiMING DEFORE

US RESTRICTED, CHECK

SANCTUTO.

Judicia

10:57

Cals Designation

FILE TITLE

TRACE

REQUEST

ABETRACT

,X.

701-094258

MIBAUNDER (PRIMARY CODE)

---

## Page 2

TO

FROM

SUALECT

DISPATCH

Cz26-35930

Chief, ve

201-294555

Chies of Station, Londere

Oreratienal/PEDiOUD/LCIMPROVE/AELADLE

MIChael WYNSE-ELLIS JOb

17 March 1752

MANSIO DINGING

DING CARM A OGH

I QUANTAD NO DESA DANI

See below

ORLW-19307, 23 January 1962

SHOTH appreciated the XGB docusent forvarded with

Reference and have submitted

the following comments and

questiong:

1. "We have a number of questions about this document

on which we should be graterul for your comments, and as

baokground to some of these we think it will be useful for

you tohave an account of @yNNE-ELLS) dealings wIth ABLADLE!

"They date from June 1961 when he was con-

sidering a

vialt to the U.S...h.

He mentloned this to the

Soviet Ambassador, whom he met at the queen trinday

Celebration In Helsinki, (he did not realise at farat that

It was the Ambasador to whom he was talking).

The Ambassador

Buggested that ha should get in touch with Ivan Efimovich

BEROEEV, an Identified R.J.S, offloer.

06

"Between 5th and 15th July 1961 (HYNNE-ELLIS)

went to

the consular section of the Sovlet Embausy to see

about the visa.

Apparently he did not see SERoze but met

AELADLE who showed a good deal of ourlosity about him and

asked whether he had ever been to the U.S.S.R. before,

whether he had applied in London for a visa,

what he was

The posalbility of ABLADL takine

English lessons from WYNNE-ELLIS was mentioned and AELADLE

said he would get in touch with WYNNE-ELLIS about this. Ho

asked for a short blogiphy of WYNNE-thuds

"He brought the visa application forms and hia

blography to AELADLE two days later and although AELADLE Nas

apparently very busy he asked WYNNE-ELLIS for glarification

¿ vardour details:

from (WYNNE-ELLISD0b

AELADLE did nottake Sngl1a% 165a058

Detober 196,% At the end of September, or beginning oi

, WYNNE-ELLIS received a letter from AELADLE

114:201

GALKIN, who had been concerned in WYNNE-ELLIS, recruitment

by the R.I.S2 WYNNE-ELLIS telephoned AELADLE

to Bay that

he did not have the new address.

AELADLE told him that 1f

he wanted it, he could have a visa 'tomorrow! to viBit

stalingred (now Volgograd) and In the course of convergator

sald sometines it is better to visit places but not old

friendel.

We wondered at the time, and ever more after

AELADLE'& defection, whether this remark had any speolal

signifloance.

"On I6th November AELADLE Invited WYNNE-ELLIS)

to attend a Soviet concert.

AELADLE boid him that he nad

been granted & tourist visa but that 1f he wished to vialt

his pen triand he would require a lotter of Invitation from

APLADLE asked about

He Britlah trionds In Helsink and

Bald that he would phone

WYNNE-ELLIS next wook to make a

furthor appointment. He

did not do this:

CLASSIFICATION

-/AA.11 NO

---

## Page 3

14-00000

CONTINUAION DI

DISPA."H

SECRET /RIBAT

0EL4-35534

24

I. "A further development which

may be of interest

In that In early January 1902 (WYNIE-ELLIS received & rurther

etter frow his Rugsian pen friend giving nim a fairl:

reagine invitation to visit him NiNE-ELLIS, who was no

avare of AELADLE'e defection, wrote to AELADLE telling him

that he had now recelves the invitation, and Inviting him

to coffee at hie housel

2. "We thought that the arrival of this letter (1t

was dated 25.12.61) so shortly after AELADLE's defection,

long gap in the correspondence between WYNNE-BILIS)

and his pen fried, might indicate that the R.l.S. auspeated

that WYNNE-ELLIS had had a hand In AELADLE's defection.

06 WYNNE-ELLIS) was never aware that AlLADLe was an R.I.S. officer.

So 06 An you know from an earlier conversation about

thia case WYNNE-ELLISIs a most unsatisfactory charaoter

to deil with, and we belleve that the Red.s, have round him

BauAlly unsatisfaotoryl he have no reason to suppose that

but we would

not exolude thin an a possibility - or at least would not

exoludo the poasibility that ho might have coneidored this.

*Our questione on the WYNNE-ELLIs) document aupplied

Dy AELADLE NEO DO SOILONE:

"What le the manuseript word at the top of the

firat pago, and what 10 1t8 significance?

b.

"the two typed worde, one immediately below

the manusoript word on page 1 and

the other to the left, are

not legible on our copy.

"In there any significance in the date 1ith

November being in Inverted commas, thus

"12"g

"We are puzzled by what at firat sight appeared

to be a date, 22.YII.1961, in in the heading Immediate)y above

the text on page l.

In fact the Roman numerale lym: are

the cyrillle letter XTT, but we do not understand their

meaning. Can ALLADLE explain th18?

"What 1g the name In which the dooument 1g

signed, and doea ALADLE know the true identity of this person?

I. d"we are a little surprised at the oyrilllo trans

literation

Of WYNNE-ELLIS! name.

We should have expeoted the

KGB to have a eystem which would enable them to get back to

the correct English spelling.

Admittedly WINNE-ELLIS)e name

1g an awkward one to deal with.

"We should have expected thet ALADlE would have

sent a trace requeat to his Headquarters shorty after the

Firet meeting with WYNNE-ELLIS 1n July 1951.

Yet the reply

WaR apparently sent oly on lith November.

Can AELADLE

comment on this?

"We do not wish to suggest by these comments that

we suspect that this dooument might be a forgory, but we

would be grateful for your confirmation thet you do not

consider this a possibillty.

---

## Page 4

14-00000

":"

CONTINUATION OF

DISPAICH

SESPET / PYBAT

is ata se

CELA-35931

5. You sill no doubt in due cource be queezioningal

AELADLE 1n detail on his knowledge of the WYNNE-ELLIS case.

le do not at inla arage winh to suggent decalled question.

except to remark that we do not know tne read nadee of any

of the R.I.S. offleera who dealt with him - Including the

man whom,

1t 1g atated in the AlLADLE document, he met in

There la some mystery about thia because WYNE-o

ELlaS denies having met any R.l.S. officer in the U.K..

he did however have contact with various Russians here

(Inaluding an R.I.S. officer) and we sumpeot that the

Distributions

chief,

- chier,

3IPJ

---

