# 104-10216-10353

## Page 1

104-10216-10353

130a x28 hes 3t1

3 March 1965

MEMORANDU POZ THE RECORD

SUBJBCT: AHIP-l Moeting, New York City, 19 February 1965

1 tooting/Time/Place

Purpose of the neeting as to attempt to satisly requirementa

levied by Nestor Sanchez, WH/SA/SO, on events which too‹

place during ANYHIP-l's most recent sojourn in Europe (January»

February 1965) in company with AHLASH-1.

Meeting was also

used to dotarmine AWHIP-l'e willingness to participate in the

"discord program" using UNSNAFU-19 as the unwitting recipient

of cortmin runors, the details, of which are covered in

subaequent pragraphs.

2. It might be noted for the record that this weeting vas

neboduled for the morning of 18 February, but due to

AMTHIP-I "Issing the schedulod flight fron Miam, the meeting

was postponed until the above time.

Details of the looting

The folloing Information on the various topics as

Indicated concerm basically those requirements which have

been intended for,

and levied on, AHLASH-I.

However, due to

the fact that ANNHIP) was together in Europe with ALASF-1,

AMIHIP l was debriefed on the requirements on the outside

chance that he night have some complimentary information on then.

Orlando Blanco, Cuban Diplonat in Bern, Switzerland

ASHIP-! vas unable to give any additional infornation on

Blanco as be had not not the man in Europe and does not remember

having not hia in Havana.

(ATHIP-l stated that AMLASH-1

clained that ho (AMHIP-l) had in fact net Blanco & number

of yeurs ago in Havana, but ANTHIP says he truly does not

remember the men.)

He

stated that any additional information

on Blanco would have to come fron either AMLASH-l Or AMLASH-3.

In appronching Blanco for cooperation, AIWHIP strongly

suggested that it would be beat to use AMLASR for the

Initial contret. ALWHIP stated that BLANCO knew AMLASH-3 vell

and that he sas a trusted representative (and therefore antl

Castro) 0f AMASE-I. ANHIP-I was told ve were 100:ing into

Blanco and also Into QUIOPS-1, Attache Cuban Embansy, Madrid.

---

## Page 2

In discussing CUHOPS' desire to cooperate, AMIRIP

stated that QuiOps would do what he could to help but that

in exchange for this he vanted to get his wife, two children,

and his nother-in-iar to the United States along with hissell.

ANTHIP stated that QUIOPS' plan in brief vas to accept

the guard duty on Sunday thus maxing probably only himself

and the gile of code cler: present in the embassy. "e

thanied AWHIP for his Information and suggestions and

stated that they would be conveyed to the appropriate parties

concerned.

Gustavo GONZALES. (AMLASH-]'8 "cousin") AJWHIP-]

statod that he had no information on Gonzales,

Nestor Sanchez has an

with regard to his

(Sanchez') pending PCS to Caracas, Venezuela.

"Venezuelan" Returning from Moscow.

Regarding the

Venezuelan who has reportedly to have just come from Moscow

and returning to Cuba, AHIP-l stated that he had no

Information to contribute about the man.

le did say, however,

that one time during his recent trip to the Cuban Embassy

Paris talking with UNSNAFU-19, the Ambassador had intorrupted

their conversation in order to tal's to two men (about 30-35

years old).

AIWHIP-l not then briefly and was told by one

of then that they were fron Oriente Province.

stated that he could tell innediately by their accente

that they were not Cuban.

In order to confirm this be

asked then where in Oriente they were fron because one of the

Cuban officials in Paris was from Oriente and always wanted

to chat with any people from Oriente who passed through Paria.

After & briel stumbling exercise, groping for a nano of a

eity in Oriente, the "Cuban" confessed that they were not

Cubang but Venezuelans.

ANYHIP did not have suffident time

to learn more about them.

The two Venezuelans spent about

thirty minutes talking with UNSSAFU-19 while AMWHIP was there.

he did not know hon much longer previous to this thirty

minutes that the Venesuelans had been in the Embassy or to bon

else they talked.

AwhIp-l suggested that UNSNAFU-9 might

be able to obtain the names of the two Venezuelane in question.

UNSNAYU-19's Nembership in the "Gaslight Club"

~ As a support service Tor & Parla Station operation to fet

UNSNAFU-19 membership in the Gaslight Club where it would be

attempted to run a highly desirable female ngent against him.

ANTASH-l stated that he had been unable, due to UNSNArU-19'g

busy schedule, to got the latter down to the Gaslight Club

and enrolled as a sember.

ANIHIP stated, however, that be

could do the job just as well by taxing out a 31ft membership

fOr UNSNAFU-19 through the Gaslight Club in New Yore City,

and sending UNSNAFU-19'g membership card and key to his in

Paris.

He encouraged AlWHIP-l to do this and to seep ua

navised of his progress.

---

## Page 3

Diacles Torraiba

1.

Cuban Air Force Comandante DIEbOIS, Regarding

DICLOIS who had allegedly arrived In

Paris Iron Algeria during

the time that Sanchez and AWHIP-l were there, AMIRIP-! said

that he did not know the man or did he have any information on

• Comandante with that name or a name that sounded l1ie that.

He said that he bad heard sonething about a Comandante with a

Strange name but he could not contribute more than that.

He

muggested that AMLASH-1 might be able to identify the man.

African trip,

and probably also the one to China as a member of

¿his security force.

ANNHIP said that the name did not register

with hin and he had no other information to give. He again

suggested that AMLASH-l might be able to belp.

One thing more

ANHIP. saidiund that he did not thin: that any of Che's security

men were naned Bernie, and he thought this was not a correct

v

Kaon

name.

He did say, however, that while he was in Paris

there had

been

two security types there who were guarding two or three

dark green trunks about the sire of foot lociers and four or

five suitcases. ANYHIP said that they both had pistols, one a

Soviet machine pistol and the other a 32 calibre andrid but he

AHUHIP does not

renember the exact date that they left Paris for

remonbers that the flight left at 4:50 in the afternoon and

toos place about two weeks ago (ca. 5 February).

AWWHIP says that

UNSNAFU-9 inows both of these men and could be contacted for their

h. Carlos Frandus.

AIWHIP-1 had no additional

Informatics on Franqui except

to say that he new he uns not

happy. He also believed that AMASH-l had additional information

on Frangul.

1.

B & L Locomotives.

With regard to the requirements

concerning secuilty measures on the shipment of locomotives to

Cuba, AHIP said that he bad no additional information to

contribute.

ANHIP also stated that he had obtained no additional

Information Iron FISSOLA, the engineer concerned with the shipment,,

to, and the use of, these locomotives.

AMHIP stated that he

thought AlLASH-l migbt bave some additional information.

also stated that he thought "Americo" tal too much and that

maybe "Mario" would be best to assist in the operation.

(Comment: See Ronts for further edification of the subject.)

JI a

---

## Page 4

with ANLASH-1 and had given appropriate Instructions to

AMNHIP2 In the event of the receipt of letters Irom

Havana signed by AllASH-l or signed by a "Cuban" whoa

AWHIP? did not know. (Comment: It was a good thing we

reviewed acconmodation address with AlIHIP-!, see below.

For the record AMLASH-l will address his letters to AHIP

other in care of his business address in Bone which 1e:

Homa

OT tO ANYHIPt?'s business address in Geneva (which incidentally

1s identical with bla hone address. as AMIHIP? operates in

Geneva from his apartment):

Geneva, Seltzerland.

(It should be noted that ATHlY» intends to open a proper

office in Geneva in the near future.

However, this i8 no

particular reason

for changing the accommodation address ir

Geneva.)

AhIp»' stated that he had given the undersigned'a

postoffice box in lashington (Willian A. Thompson,

P.O.

Bor 1224. Apoy Station, Washington, D.C.

to AlHIP"?, belleving

that this would' expadite our recelpt of letters fros AMLASH-1®

AaHIP-1 was told that his concern for rapid transaittal of

the letter was certainly appreciated, but that for security

sake ,

It was much better that they be forwarded in a cover

envelope to ANTHIP"s address in New York City, preforably.

hia business address:

ANNHIP was also told

to renind

ANHIP? that he should handle the letters he received from

Havana am little as ponible and put then in cover envelopes

and send them as quicily as poseible to AWHIP-l in New Yor

city.

In this connection it remaine the problem of obtaining

these letters on a expeditious basis when AHID. 18, for

example, out of town for i prolonged absence.

1t.18

suggested that Willlan Thompson's accommodation business

In Washington be

&iven to AWHIP'& father no that he may

forward AHIP?'s letters to "ashington without undue delay

(This is an excellent enample of a breadow in cospartnentatio

In CubRa operations. )

Paris Embasay Personnel. According to a telephon

call on 18 February Iron AMASH-T in Paris, AWHIP-l state

that AMASE-l had said that UNSNAFU-8 and, perhaps, UNSNAFU-!

would be out ni jobs in the near future in accordance with

the present econony drive by the cubans.

ANLASH stated that

InShA/US most cortainly would be outted, while UNSNAFU-9'E

suBe as more uncertain.

....n..

---

## Page 5

Cuban Government Financial Straits. (Ref.

PARI 9067, IN 73372, & February 65) AMIIP-T added some

additional consents on the silver payments cited in ref.

Aw"HIP l stated that the Cubars vere apparently very anxious

to soll the silver cited in Ref.

Actually AWWHIP-)

stated that the total anount of the payments would be in

the neighborhood of $350,000 and this included antiques,

postage stasps, silver bullion, and "worsed" silver articles.

AMWHIP also-stated that be had been asced if he would

be willing buy $100,000 worth of silver on the spot, the

cash to be placed in a reputable internationl ban..

Ibis discussion had been carried on by international telephone

wIth Popin Sanchez, brother-In-law of Celia Sanchez, and Jose

Iglesias Loper, good friend Of ANHIP-l and forner Havana

Jeweler. ANTHIP•I talked to the above in Ravana from the Cuban

Embassy, Paris. This $100,000 was a part of the total $350,000

mentioned above.

. AlwHIP-l turned down the sale, stating that

he did not nornally deal in silver, and was not sure or the

value of the worked items offered for sale. AwHIP-I stated

that this sale as to be executed on behalf of Castro

personally and ild not ascessarily reflect the overall

Iinancial pieture of the Cuban government.

AWHIP-I stated

that AMLASH) had told hin that such an action vas typical

of Castro, who in

many Instances, conducted business

arrangements of his own, without regard or without consultation,

with the membors of his governent normally Involved in Cuban

national finances. AMIHIP-1 stated that UNSNAFU-19 alao bad

Intimated the above•

ANWHIP-I stated that he belloved that

this noney was needed for the dompayment on two factortes

which had been purchased by the Cubans in Great Britain.

He also stated that he believed these factories vere for

the processing of agricultural products of some type.

AlsO,

concerning the silver, according to AWWHIP-l, that 30% bad

been reduced to bullion and that the rest consisted of "forced"

silver articles (antiques, art treasures,

Jewelry, etc.)

AWHIP stated that this entire offering of silver antiques, ete.

had eventually been sold on the spot in Havans for cash to

an unknow person of Turdish/Italian bacground.

tried to find out the identity of the person but neither

reveal the

identity of the buyer.

or ast Iglesias for

the name, but we cautioned against it

as showing undue interest in the matter. AWHIP l was told

that 11 he ever saw I¿lesias 1n person and could safely 88s

him he should do so together with any details he could

obtain about

the transaction

as it was related to Cuban

financial problens.

AHIP-l stated that on his retura to

: 7.

---

## Page 6

21-00000

the Paris kabessador's conference in Madrid, UNSNATU-19 carried

• very large trun: lo his car.

It was so heavy that the rear of

the car was clearly weighted-down. AWHIP speculated that this

trunk had been brought to Madrid by Arnold RODRIGUEZ Camps and

was turned over to UNYNAPU-19 prior to the latter's return to

In connection with this, AWHIPl received a phone call

Geneva on the 18th of February and had invited AMASH-l.

Havana via Madrid on the 23rd of

On the norning of

the 19th of February AlMIlPal recelved a call frow AMHIP-2

stating that UNSNAFU-19 was driving to Geneva on the 19th.

He

med with his some $11,000 in silver articles.

AMRIP-2, who sAw

the 1tens, said that the "stuff was cheap" (meaning inferior

workmanship and quality).

AlAsh-, Morgle and Finances.

We then broached the

topio of AMit's attitude and present frame of mind after our

refusal to give hia $10,000 that he requested for operational

AwwHIP-l stated that he thought AliSH-l was not overly

disturbed by this, but that in general he was sonewhat upset by

the fact that he

had even entered into negotiations with AlBIDDY-l,

objecting to his "political mentality".

It might be noted that

AMHIP-1 also stated his reservations about AMBIDDY-1.

FrOu

this, we derived the feeling that AWLASH-l and AlwHIP l both

had strong but unspecified reservations about the motivation and

morality of ANBIDDY-.

AlLASH said that due to this reservation

of AMIASH-l's, and due to the relative newness of the contact,

AMLASH-I was extremoly reluctant to take any noney from AHBIDDY-1,

which, of course,

in the end he did not. AMHIP-l stated that

AMLASH felt that he had been pushed by the Americans into a

basically unwanted relationship with AMBIDDY-!. AHIP l statod

that he, as vell as AHIASH-l were still baffled at the Ameriean

reluctance to deal across the board on all mattere with

AMLASH-1.

He stated that AMLASHl had received certain item

from AMBIDDY» that he uns not able to obtain from the Americans.

AMHHIP-l made it a point to state that AMLASH-1 noted imediately

and pointedly that the items provided to hin by AMBIDDY 1 vere

not homenade nor apparently one-of-*ind itens. (the inference here

being quite clearly conveyed to the undersigned was that these

Items obviously cane fron commercial sources. )

poople of his choice in particular jobs where they could be of

nasticinatio sesa

---

## Page 7

14-00000

eritical value to AILASH in any plans he would formulato.

(AMRIP ciled, for example, Cornadante Nieves, comandante

of toe Port of Havana, who

in his position 10 of great value

tO ANIASE-I SOT ObVIOUS FORGODE. )

AHIP-l utated that this

eubsidy sonoy permitted these people to remain in place by

providing an addition to their scones, no otheruise due to

the high cost of living today in Havana, would be cospelled

for economic reasons to seek employsent elserbore. The

undereigned then asked the rather pointed question of whether

OF nOt AKLASI-1 got any of the soney that he needed. ass

maid, "Jell, I gave it to hin". We asked hia how such and

be besitated.

After a littlo discussion and a direct questios,

be stated that be bed given $7,000 tO ALASHl. AHIP I

etated that AlASH-l did not, la fact, have the money got and

that the money would be given to him probably this weekend

(30-21 February) 10 Parts by AWHIP-%.

ASHIP-! stated that

ANNHIP. had becono Involved in the traneaction because be

hnd to appoal to him for help in raising the money 10 a fairly

confidential' Baaser.

Arrangements to give AMLASHl soney

during his stay In kadrid had fallen through, AHIP had

learned,

thus

the roason for AIMHIP.?'s being forced to go

to Paris in order to give it to him this veekend.

also stated that AMLASI-1 had askod Jose Iglestas in Havana

дот вово 3,000 рево.

Igleslas vas not able to raise the sun

nt the time requaated.

Whether or not be is attempting to do

30 now, or has succoeded in doing so during AlLAsH-l'e abaence,

1e not

knoun at this time. It abould be noted that during

dlacuasicas concerning the AMBIDDY/ALASH relationship, ANTHIP

stated that AMBIDDY had told AMLASH of at leant sine portion of

his connections with the Americane. AlMIlP] stated that he had

sat in on the discussions during which tine AMBIDDY purportedly

unde this statenent.

AWHIP also stated, as he had dose 1a

previous seetings,

that neither he or AltAsa could understand

why the Americans did not aake further use of AMLASE-3 and

AMLASH-2.

He aleo felt that there vore many bite and pleces

o1 the whole picture that vere not tied into a seat biodle and

utilized to their full extent by the Americans.

The undersigned

at to tise nantitod that be wao arare of any AMBIDDY/Asertea

relationship as alluded to by AMIriP-l.

:.

0.

for the record, AMliP-l agals stressed the fact that

be felt that he could produce more information and better serve

KARK Intereste 11 he had a case officer who kum all aspecta

of the AMLASH complex and the cast of other Cuban characters in

Exrope in whom there was an interest and to whom AlIulp. bad

access.

Be emphasized that Paria case officer|

(and

prenuably other furopean-based case officers) with whoa he

bas dealt) uns very helpful and that be enjoyed their relationship.

but that there was an obvious lack of depth of knowledge of e11

aspocts of an AMASH-ANNIlP operation and aleo of those principally

---

## Page 8

-8=

Involving only ANTHIP. He felt that he could be more effective

with continuous guidance and direction during his European

Bojourna.

CAHIP also implied that the case nificers were

understandably busy with their many local probiens and could

not devote as nuch time as posalbly was desirable to AwHIP l's

On the other hand, AMHIP-l delicatoly submitted that

11 he was willing to taxe the time for the operations, and 1f

In Inct they were worthwhile and necessary, ve should maie

every reasonable effort to glean the sost benefit from his

In sumary, If feasible, he prefers to deal with one

case officer on all aspects of his operational activity.

AILASH. 1.

recording to AlWillP-l, he and AllASH-l have

established an open code for signalling his desire for exfiltration

or to inform AWHIP-l when the date of hia Attempt will be.

Exfiltration Involves the use of birthday greetings to Loretta

mãa Sylvia Indicate exfiltration fron latanzas or Miramar,

respectively.

AMBIDDY-l presumably has the details for execution

once he is inforned of the reyword by AMHIP 1. The Attempt 1a

to bo noted by any mention of the name SIMON, together with a date,

Deception Ploy (Rumor plant with UNSNAFU-19) •

In response to the request for his opfnion on this subject

after it had been outlined as agreed upon at Headquarters,

AwHIP-l stated that he thought that he could carry this off

without UNSNAFU-19 being suspicious.

He stated that this type

of information would have to come forth at the right moment in

& natural manner, and during & rather lengthy personal meeting.

He felt that to

do this by telephone or letter would be totally

out of keeping with his normal relationship with UNSNAFU-19

and that 1t should not be done in that manner.

In response to

the suggestion, hovever, he said that it could be done if his

stopping off in. Paris to 800 UNSNAFU-19 too's place as a part of

• normal business trip to Europe.

He also stated that he felt

he had to have something upon which to peg the story.

egroed with the feasibility of the suggestion of putting bin in

touch with a reputable businessman in New Yor's, who has good

connections in Goverment circles in washington and whom he

conceivably could have nown for sone time as a result of a

normal bualness relationship.

AYTHIP-1 agreed to return to

Europe in sve or three wee‹s

espocially to perform this tass.

Ho was in agreement with the

undersigned's idea that, in order

to piay it as safely as possible, this meeting with UNSNAFU-19

should not take place at least until after the 24th of February.

the expected retura date of AMLASH-1 to Havana. Boss. for thin

---

## Page 9

14-00000

i .....

reason and for analys own husiness matters, ve ill progra

his return to Lurope for sonetine during the firat or second

woke of March 1965.

Awhip-l was told that arrangemente would be

made for him to knon about, or actually to meet, the ostensible

source of this information in New Yor. sonetine during the last

mok of Februry or the firat veer of March. He was told almo

to xeep in touch with the undersigned in the event of any

nows received fron Burope concerning AMLASH-l or any of the

onst of characters ta this memorandu.

1. The meeting terminated at 1610 hours and there vere

no inoidences of a socurity nature to be reported.

VE/C/PI/TC

---

