i04-t0165-(0107

(Al

HEWORAKIOX OR THE RECORD

SUBJSECE & pcre oe meeeane vate Sergio Rojas
2o-

mevermcns: (LAmiy3002 (W 17910), 2 Bertexrer 1960

Le When it was learned bere tbat Aojae une ir
end there to etey with Ricardo Loria, it wac troughs It sieht be best to
talk to bin before be visits Kieni 60 as to ecruvirs comition his thinke
ing before be is exposed to the full Ulest o: eniinD centimet viieb be
ie certain to cet from Loria and bis associates, 2 telechoned Rajas in
Yew York on 26 Septeader, vo.0 tLe iacreticie retociision plrace gives
in Parsgrapo 5 ct referee, ind La agreed tc stop uff in Wishiogton am
route to Kiert 27 Sepreber.

senting to go to Risal

2. E sit with Petes for sever! hours in tre SheratoneCurltoa Ectel
‘on 27 Septeuber. --Rejea~vegen-our conversation wits lengtiry dtecoures
intending to esteblich a pictare of binceif as a complete reutrel emg
the opposing Cubsn exile grovps, be not being 2 wenber of any crouse end
beavily endowed with objectiviry. As a aaster of face in the ccurse of
our 6iscussion be spoke wits seou'ng objectivity, Lat cn szlzace elearly
favoyed the paint ef view of those young revolutiancries of tha type who
Dov reke cp the Aijenga 6@ Literaeion, who ficd thesselves rejecting and
rejected by the FID. Be ts vell sccusiated vith tos bistory of the i@ate
port inthe forsation:of the FED, the: tuitial .s,estios of ANBIDST<1 to
represent the KKB, and what occarzed eter tc craze “Ds split.cf the #aR

_ With the PRD. be presented tha usual arquest inet ths MAR ho? ende a

vad nistaxe fa ellcuing ANTAL to Le toe rc sreseptative in the FED,
Bnd AMID] was sudseqeestly captured by tre golitioss and ence finally
‘to a point of representing an’y tis wa vives 3.3 ctievecty in the FED,
largely to tha ezelvstce of the MR inverests. (Tols arguient, wnies vas
‘as well peeorstaé by Rajes ae Ie imt baard it, is eccurete, is fe the
thing woich vw have tanded to swees under ke rus aad parascs bers Bot
taken uffielest moviee of the feat thar the 25 dianicents, 62 called,

_, Whieb were expzlled frow the FRO, wes fa fret the cans core ef the original

MRR.) Rojas poke ab lereka adiat the Alisra also and sat thst he bed
talked with a muaber of Sse pecpls in Few York ths cay tefae. Be
‘Uesiy leaoated the fact tLet a amcter ef valcsdle youre con, partiewisrly
ef the gilitary type, 1: ting wasted es c resvit of insse differences
which exist betweea tw yours revslcroeries and the FSD, as he pet its

" Z told bin thet L-egrend witt hin but thet Fttecght test the solation

for these military typta wis siaple -= fwe, 1f trey vould presmt theme
esives as iniivicuals efferizg thafr serricts t> the FSD thet they wasld
de eccepted and thecr valusbls eervices voule o¢ cx to Kood vec, Exaayleo
in this case were Caines, Dies Lear, W409 Du, ch et. ernsamesis, Rojas
was eocplatnly exami of Hino bien's wdosien.} I euygested in tule ecde
Bection timt people ¢f thia iyo were bring victinizes by eueh people os

i -Lals Conte Agrere the ia evspart of thatr political espirations are weing

these military typee {24 winsowdrewning oa: y2.1%cal bargaining foddere

owed ate babies

URN TO CIA
round. Use On

i Do Not Reproduce



ans tanto

. 4
A:$se secacd sovewbat tzgrescac vats toi4 17 ;
ight use wontevcr iefiserce be tm te influence, 3
ie dasorites as beirg certisate te “av To ta tne feiss of ;
threntenoe sateise, to break avay froe te y 7

3, Rojas then begua .. cpaea oo th: ta eg Detawes @gxla i *

vhat ne calls the youre rrva’esiotertes, Be at an thea aly : 1 .
hovenert propla, and the wiltfecs, cscn us ¢ saue“#e AParKO, ft Bl, A
wrow thay refer toes "lcs Viesos". fon your Vottoneries fwah tit ;
with “Los Vieloo® fp prer inet Cone will elite mocentes tard tie bt :
political regimes asd that these Latter are coy io ily szevice to toe :
proposition that the oigiual aime of wwe rev ;
\ithoot Cartro aad, .of ceurae, Witsoat amy C:e2 4

curiously referred to these politicus ta »
ristt. I caid that this view ef chee var
eld by wost who consizer tau to be Libcreie
left. I edved that tf t-s00 people vere o
be @ cares of sertoes vorry to the U. 5. Gorecuest.
eubject.

sah at

4. He vented ther to beow $f it woul} La
Government to lent ite supper’ ve uote tran on:
that the U. 5. Govermment mes not sazportics wy are
Ba wert ce to eay that if svapws . calc Ws 2t-
the milttory types te Sic acaticne! erevicas iy ow fem to thi Ditersa,
for cxarple, as a whois organization (atarce tp), toat
Sbis would not only gain toe service: of “voy + : \e in te flext
against Castro but migxt sov tha atsce of polr- 42 for the fareres
Bq pointed ot that if toe young revnlutione-ise xo :z. cos ragerted Vy th
PED are etified tm their evverts tec tastre pices,
they will represant oballi.in actiniersesr ¢ “8 for, the futare,
to 8, o.fuzas = think there is 2
tue In any cose,
Rojas was given the russtiw were, 3, ‘ryolvernai ie (i200 eatle afvetry
(whieh, cf ecares, ba ¢oas um bey) acd a! . ua do whntever be can
to bring oboct unity ae bate several erouyt. de was told that the FAD
appeared to be the grou waleh ned thy peat aization sed orustest
epperent potential for smewess, and chat ell ecresrnsc vould be well ade
wined to ottenpt to reke prize wita ‘1, Rovas ta: tt he bag g att
feeling that umivy oa this tasts ws ont poesitie at nits time berwse
the feeling crwmg the young revolitiosarien wis ramirg too nigh end too
enotionally agtiost the FID. Fa vais be thos: trase youre revalationartes
feal thet thes bave been turned owt ty aeli-sist.ig ccit ices, and their
friende end contacts ia te C. £. Governaeat rrve tured toear beck and
ebandoned then. Uectase ef this they we wiferiry tutuersese 1od bia
ALigsioment, Bojes then swgetkn tant perutps l- wots be willing to
arrange a wevtiag for bin vith some regresextettvs of she END, epeeitically
thie was mt to te ome of tie five prion pris. veo (wis mvt vich om io
on attoupt to rofure their citferxses to! reac taliled ralstionsnine end
cooperation with the 702. J told Mia that re 6 eegcontion
bet I thought 1t me wet possible Linemme! or ie J. 8. Uurermunt, wile



Sp ffeeasnnessstontephapade incor

BEN magne sirmentcime cenuye

je

ie waintains e'rortinaces interset ta the
coateet with the rerersl crocpa, is Bot +
Rojas caid be knows. this. iy be emtroe tht 26 >
het Gno-Us 3. Gavarneaant by nol enter! ay
ouggestien to hia thet tw tives bia fri
to apprcucs tre FED egsin anc ettemt or toe:
tien. In doing 20, Z ongrveted tbry wight com7 i!
of an olser, rave sopbiavicaved, eature tiwivivoes we
9 reprosens thea im thea ceeriveed goeta Tru ot:
the MER OLfficsities, fur ssangle, ates (rum poor Th
bolieve thet Bojes iamedinteiy eantelly cust bamest
Giecussinns epsed et this poizt.

onsing to atay ie Stash only a few asys,
a test Of ao 8
bs wcaid ace tries

$- Roses sats that be vas 9!
after which be vould retern to Loman, aa atic id
resale of Me viert bere be secose conziaccy tuck

substantially to this Cutan exile sitestioc in wot ta wordt setres
% be duicye Std atten: tee noLOreNES,

wiih esay with Lie, vocee Bay post ember

BGWARD $b. ACERAMUT

Brasdla (28 Bape 1960}

