# 104-10308-10062

## Page 1

104-10308-10062

TO

INFO.

DISPATCH

Deputy Chief, WH/SA

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

POSED

X

stops

PROCESSING

MARKED FOR INDEXING

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED

HEADQUARTERS DESK

CAN JUDGE INDEXING

Chief of Station, JMWAVE

Operational/TYPIC/AMLEQ

Unsuccessful Exfiltration Attempt by M/V ADA

ACTION REQUIRED. REFERENCES

Action Required: None, FYI

9-12 May 1964

References:

A.

B.

c.

D.

E.

F.

G.

BARR-1606,

dated

13 May

BARR-1607,

dated

13

WAVE-6458

May

dated

13 May

WAVE-6433,

dated

13

WAVE-6463

May

dated

BARR-1612,

13

May

dated

14

May

BARR-1614,

BARR-1619

dated

14

I.

J.

UFGA- 15986,

15

May

dated

May

dated

20

May

WAVE- 6844,

dated

21

May

1964

1964

1964

1964

1964

1964

1964

1964

1964

1964

K. UFKA- 130, dated 14 May 1964

GENERAL BACKGROUND INFORMATION

During the past year and a half AMLEO-3 has been placated,

him in obtaining asylum for his wife and family in a third country

asylum attempt for Mrs. AMLEO-3 in March 1964, as reported in refer-

ence I, and the refusal of Mrs. AMLEO-3 to even consider taking asylum

without advance guarantees of a salvo conducto; AMLEO-3 lost what

little optimism he had remaining for a safe method of bringing his

attempt in March 1964, Mrs. AMLEO-3 again renewed her attackupon

AMLEO-3 by phone and letter, urging him to rescue her by any means

at his disposal, and by her efforts she has successfully convinced him

that his family will escape only if she can arrange an exfiltration

mounted from inside the island, or if AMLEO-3 sends someone to get her

or comes himself to exfiltrate her and their children.

recently the C/O has been able to persuade AMLEO-3 that undertakings

of this nature were foolhardy unless carried out by trained maritime

assets skilled in clandestine infiltration and exfiltration,

equipped with the proper vessels and support to carry out the mission

tinued, and AMLEO-3 is aware that KUBARK will not sponsor any maritime

POUCH SECURITY VIOLATION

LO FIELD DISTRIBUTION

Distribution:

3 /WHISA

I CROSS REFERENCE TO

25 May 19G6N 2 195A

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

UFGA-15995

GROUP 1

Excluded ticin antamat:

BUTTE

HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBER

CLASSIFICATION

SECRE

19-6-75/3

19-6-75/3

---

## Page 2

13-00000 **

CLASSIFICATION

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

SECRET

UFGA- 15995

exfiltration attempts to rescue his family, he has decided that he

would prefer to terminate his relationship

with KUBARK so that he can

out such exfiltration attempts on his own in a completely

independent manner.

Since November 1963, JMWAVE has noted in all AMLEO progress

reports that Mrs. AMLEO-3 was dabbling in exfiltration attempts in

side Cuba,

and has also successfully managed to pry funds out of

AMLEO-3 in attempts to buy her way into such efforts.

As a result

AMLEO-3 has borrowed money from AMSHED-] and family

relatives in the \

attempting to support his wife in these attempts, and is now in

debt to these individuals to the tune of $4-$5,000.00.

On 5 May 1964,

AMLÉ0-3 Informed his C/O. that he had recently heard from his wife via

and in her letter she had

told him that she planned to participate in an exfiltration attempt ll

from inside the Island the weekend of I0 May 1964

AMLEO-3 requested !

the C/O to alert QKMAGNET to this attempt

and said that he expected

to have confirmation of the attempt by 1900 hours on 10 May 1964.

Nothing was heard from AMLEO-3 the night of 10 May 1964, but the

lowing morning, at 0840 hours 11 May 1964, AMLEO-3 contacted the C/O

and gave him the following information:

"The exfiltration of my family will begin on the night

of l1 May 1964, and the group will consist of some li

adults and children.

They plan to depart from Playa

de Guanabo,

between Havana and Matanzas, during the

night of Il May 1964 and expect

to arrive in Key West,

Florida sometime on 12 May 1964. "

AMLEO-3 claimed he knew nothing about what type of boat the group

planned to use, nor the exact time oi departure, route

the boat would

It was not until 13 May 1964, that AMLEO-3 mentioner

£ollow, etc VEDDER and Leon C. FLUTEO, during a routine operational

to Bruce P.

meeting, that he had sponsored and masterminded the aborted exfiltratio

operation, and that the operation had been mounted from the U.S.,

not from inside the island, as he had previously claimed to the C/O.

On 14 May 1964, the C/O contacted AMLEO-3 and requested an

explanation of his sponsorship of the exfiltration operation. AMLE0-3

claimed he no longer felt bound to confide these activities on his

part to KUBARK,-since KUBARK had refused to continue its effort to

rescue his wife and family from Cuba, and furthermore that he would

continue such unilateral exfiltration efforts with or without KUBARK

help until he either rescued his family from Cuba, or died in his

attempts to do so.

AMLEO-3 claims he organized the trip of the M/V

ADA by passing himself off as a PBPRIMER, and utilized the following

individuals in the operation.

A-12 834 780;

A. Nax1° PEMTS, Probably identical with Mario REMIS

Havana, Cuba on 6/20/23; who formerly

resided at Calle 130A, #36506, Wajay, Marianao, Havana, Cuba; came

to the U.S. from Cuba

in August 1962 departing from Guanabo by small

boat with five other Cuban refugees.

AMLEO=3 claims he used this

Individual as his principal organizer in the expedition,

had agreed to go into Cuba acting as a guide and leader of the group.

REMIS had previously resided in an area

close to AMLEO-3's home in

Wajay, Cuba and had agreed to go ta A-3's home and bring his family

REMIS did recruit and organize the boat crew, but at the last

individual Daniel (RODRIGUEZ) Santos.

Daniel (RODRIGUEZ) Santos is the owner of the M/v

ADA, and brought the

boat out from Cuba In his escape in November 1963

Since REMIS could not make the trip, he and A-3 reportedly briefed

RODRIGUEZ on the location of A-3's home in Wajay,

supplied him

with a recent photograph of Mrs. AMLEO-3 and her

and AMLEO-3

wrote a bona fides message in his own handwriting on the

photograph'and also listed his home address without revealing (he says

TORM

53ar

CLASSIFICATION

USE PREVIOUS EDITION.

SECRET

CONTINUED

PAGE NO.

2

---

## Page 3

13-00000

CLASSIFICATION

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

SECRET

UFGA-15995

RODRIGUEZ and returned to

the true name of his wife, MLEO-3).

(This photograph was brought back by

RODRIGUEZ then reportedly agreed

to lead the infiltration mission,

and personally contact AMLEO 3's

family and the family of Jesus GOMEZ Calzadilla in Guines, Cuba and

take them to the exfiltration point. RODRIGUEZ also planned to bring

out his fiancee, and the other boat crew members had agreed to bring

out one or two relatives each,

the total number of passengers was not

supposed to exceed 15 persons.

Armando BLANCO Lorenzo, Romelio LOPEZ Sosa,

AMBIG-4 were recruited by RODRIGUEZ, for the mission,

AMLEO-3 did not have contact with them prior to the

mission, nor were

they witting that he was one of the sponsors of the mission.

was to bring out his father, mother,

sister, younger brother, and his

and LOPEZ's fiancees;

BLANCO his wife

and daughter; RODRIGUEZ,

his fiancee, and the wives and children of AMLEO-3 and Jesus GOMEZ

AMLEO-3 has never been informed by his C/O that AMBIG 4

was a KUBARK asset,.

and AMLEO-3 has never indicated in any way that he

knew AMBIG-4 was

Since the boat in question,

was not equipped with a radio set,

desired for use as a radio operator by

AMBIG-4 was obviously not

AMLEO-3 informed the C/O that he had previously warned his

we that something was to happen the weekend one man time ine that

someone would be coming to see her with bona fides from him.

AMLEO-3 also was

instructed to supply

this contact man with all the

pesos she had at her disposal, since the infiltrees reportedly were

able to take in only $170.00 worth of pesos with them.

abort of the mission, Mrs. AMLEO-3 has

talked to A-3 by phone at least

three times,.

and she claims no one

ever contacted her; that no one

has bothered her since the failure of the mission; and that she is

reportedly not under control or surveillance by the Cuban Intelligence

services:

CHRONOLOGICAL ACCOUNT OF UNSUCCESSFUL EXFILTRATION MISSION OF M/V ADA

4 May

- 8. May 1964

During this period the gasoline, food, and other necessities

were purchased along with four sets of green fatigues which the group

in a local Army/Navy store.

They were also equipped with two

weapons were taken on the mission for self defense purposes only.

the M/V ADA, was located at Sunset Harbor Marina, Stock

Island, Key West, florida.

9 May 1964

West, Fla for

Armando BLANCO Lorenzo, and AMBIB-4,

The M/V ADA was enroute

to Cuba during the remainder

of 9 May 1964, and nothing unusual

reportedly occurred during the voyage.

10 May 1964

The infiltration crew

arrived in Cuba at a point approxi-

mately antle east of Playa Guanabe on 10 May 1964 at 1625 hours.

There was no beach per se at this spot but reefs from 6 to 9 feet high

They had difficulty mooring

the boat because the water was turbulent

at the base of the reefs.

In broad daylight, all four went ashore and

walked across the highway 'Via Blanca'.

There were several empty

trenches between the highway and the coast line,

but the group could

detect no vigilance in

area. ' LOPEZ was left hidden in the bushes

while the other three proceeded into Guanabo to

de meet RODRIGUEZ:

(in the CAC debriefing LOPEZ named one

as RODRIGUEZ'

contact in Guanabo.

AMLABEL-1 states he

asked the name of this contact several times, but

each time LOPEZ

53a

USE PREVIOUS EDITION.

SECRET

3

---

## Page 4

13-00000

CLASSIFICATION

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

SECRET

UFGA-15995

maintained that he did not know.

AMLEO-3 also refused to tell the

C/O who the inside contact man in Guanabo was for the group.

LOPEZ

may have let the name slip during his CAC debriefing, or else fabri-

cated a name.)

LOPEZ. began to count cars to while away the time.

During

the period 1630-1900 hours LOPEZ counted 38 6X6 type trucks with

approximately 50 militia each, all travelling in the direction of

Matanzas.

One other truck, containing about 15 negroes and 6 whites,

who LOPEZ states were not Cubans, was observed going in the same

easterly direction.

LOPEZ states that the traffic was unusually heavy

in both directions.

RODRIGUEZ returned about 1900 and he and LOPEZ

went back to the boat.

RODRIGUEZ told LOPEZ that he had been able to

get transportation for both AMBIG-4 and BLANCO;

AMBIG-4 to Quivican and

BLANCO to Artemisa where their respective families are located.

RODRIGUEZ and LOPEZ took the boat out about a mile, shut off the

engine and went to sleep.

information in para 8 is the

version AMLABEL-1 obtained from LOPEZ.)

AMLEOLD the AMLEO-3 version of this period, again acquired

•3 reported the following activity:

Upon his return to

the boat about 1900 hours, RODRIGUEZ SAW LOPEZ and told him to wait

and then RODRIGUEZ returned to Guanabo to see his fiance and reportedly

to establish contact with friends of A-3 in the GOC.

A-3 would not

say how these contacts were carried out, but due to the time factor

it-is assumed they could only have been done by phone.

the contacts were as follows:

1 high level civilian officiad of the GOC, with the

rank of Comandante probably in MINCONS,

who is willing to collaborate

with the Rebel Army in exile,

and willing to furnish their infiltrated

agents with official GOC vehicles to travel anywhere in the provinces

Havana, Pinar del Rio, or Matanzas in order to carry out their

missions.

B. Some unnamed high level Cuban military officers.

A-3 claims that these officias are witting to fisten

exiles, nut do net satend to de anything postlive vith them unless tray

If KUBARK would support him in a future exfiltration to rescue his

family from Cuba.

AMLEO-3 refused to provide any further information

to these supposed inside contacts of his.

AMLEO-3 states

that RODRIGUEZ returned to the boat about 2330 hours on 10 May 1964,

and then he and LOPEZ boarded the boat and went out to sea for the

A-3 also stated that LOPEZ told him that at least eight local

fisherman dropped by

to look at the boat while it remained at the reef,

and nothing was done to insure the cooperation of the fishermen

did LOPEZ attempt to hold them at the spot to prevent their informing

on the infiltration to local security authorities.

11 May 1964

10.

RODRIGUEZ and LOPEZ slept during

the night

and awoke the next morning,

11 May, at about 1130 hours.to

find themselves directly across from

They

returned to the Guanabo area

(LOPEZ said the

boat

would only do about 4 to 6 knots).

They took the boat back close to

the original landing place, waited to see some light signals indi-

cating all was clear, and when they didn't see them they decided to

go in anyway and investigate.

When approximately 20-yards. off shore,

they were fired upon-by-automatic weapons and a spotlight came on

searching for them.

The boat party was not hit by the fire and re-

treated to the-open sea.

B-60

(40)

53a

USE PREVIOUS EDITION.

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

CONTINUED

PAGE NO.

4

---

## Page 5

13-00000 **

CLASBIFICATION

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

SECRET

UFGA-15995

The boat then travelled east for approximately two to three

down the coast from Guanabo,

and they attempted to land on the

beach again.

Due to large rocks and heavy surf they decided not to

attempt a landing and instead anchorod the boat beyond the surf line

(about 30 yards out) and both RODRIGUEZ and LOPEZ swam into the beach.

, and they went bac.

to the safehouse of

pickup team of BLANce and awbIu-4, and some 28 people whom they had

acquired as passengers.

These passengers were all relatives of BLANCO

and AMBIG-4, and BLANCO and AMBIG4 told RODRIGUEZ they had been unable

to locate the homes of Jesus GOMEZ Calzadilla and AMLEO-3 and therefore

had not been able to contact these families.

They then returned the

bona fides photos and messages to RODRIGUEZ to take back to AMLEO-3

and GOMEZ.

(AMLEO-3 commented bitterly on this point stating that

AMBIG-4 and BLANCO probably went to their own homes first, and after

seeing the number of their relatives who wanted to come,

tried to find his home nor that of GOMEZ.)

RODRIGUEZ,

AMBIG-4,

BLANCO agreed upon another exfiltration point to the east of Guanabo,

arranged recognition signals.

RODRIGUEZ then returned to the boat;

leaving AyBIG-4 and BLANCO to convoy the passengers in three cars to

the exfiltration point.

RODRIGUEZ and LOPEZ arrived at the exfiltration point about

80 minutes after the appointed hour of 2300,

and halted the boat about

meters offshore.

They saw a light on top of the reef at which

point RODRIGUEZ told LOPEZ that the light was the proper signal.

When asked about the recognition signals,

LOPEZ stated that he

know what the exact signals were, but that they involved 2 or 3 lights

and an exchange of names.

He maintains that RODRIGUEZ handled all

these details).

They brought the boat right up to the reef at which

point they were fired upon from the top of the cliffs from the directi

of the highway.

(AMLABEL-1 asked LOPEZ how they had planned to get

women and children down these steep cliffs.

LOPEZ replied that the

difficulties-involved had not occurred to them.

By the same token,

they had no extra food on board the boat to feed the families.)

RODRIGUEZ shouted to LOPEZ to jump overboard to use the

protection against the rifle fire.

LOPEZ states that RODRIGUE!

was hit as he jumped overboard.

RODRIGUEZ could not swim because of

his shoulder wound.

On RODRIGUEZ' command, LOPEZ (who by this time

had RODRIGUEZ around his neck) started to

swim toward shore.

decided this avenue of escape was foolish, and turned back toward the

LOPEZ pulled RODRIGUEZ aboard.

then claims that the rifle

(FAL) and machine gun fire was redirected, at this point, in toward

land rather than out to sea toward their boat. LOPEZ states that

diversion was the only thing which saved them.

LOPEZ started the motor and was proceeding

north when he

saw the signal lights of 6 or 7 small boats ringed in a semi-circle

in front of his boat.

LOPEZ apprised RODRIGUEZ (laid out flat on the

deck) of this new development.

Even though bleeding and barely con-

scious RODRIGUEZ asked LOPEZ if he could see the lights of Matanzas

LOPEZ said he could.

RODRIGUEZ advised him to head toward

Matanzas hugging the coastline.

The patrol craft (or fishing boats)

since extinguished their lights.

LOPEZ followed his advice and

several hours later arrived off Matanzas City having eluded the patrol

RODRIGUEZ then told LOPEZ to turn the boat to the left until

compass showed "N"

straighten out and follow that course to Key

Three or four of the fas tanks had been pierced by

the barrage,

and there was barely enough gas left to make it to Key West.

last remaining water tank was also shot up.

They arrived at approxi-

mately 1730 hours at Sunset Harbor Marina, Stock Island, Key West,

Fla. on 12 May 1964.

Upon arrival in Key West, Fla,

RODRIGUEZ was hospitalized

and X-Ray pictures disclosed that the bullet had entered above his

right shouder blade and came out on his right side and penetrated

He had four cracked ribs, and it appeared that his right

not punctured,

but there was some blood between his lung and

the pleura and the Subject was operated on successfully the morning

5-B0

(40)

53a

USE PREVIOUS EDITION.

SECRET

CONTINUED

5

---

## Page 6

13-00000

CLABSIFICATION

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

SECRET

UFGA-15595

of 13 May 1964.

RODRIGUEZ has since been

moved to Miami,

now hospitalized at Mount Sinai hospital, Miami, Florida.

dition is now satisfactory.

AFTER ACTION REPORTS

and is

His con-

After the abortive exfiltration attempt by the M/V ADA,

various relatives of people involved began to receive telephone calls

and telegrams from Cuba reporting on the arrest or safety of various

individuals.

The following excerpts were taken from various BARR cabl

and debriefings of Romelio LOPEZ Sosa and AMLEO-3:

On 13 MaY 1964, AMSWIRL-I visited Tomas RODRIGUEZ

National Police in ravana who had received

of 1021 Margaret Street, Key West, former Captain with the

a telegram from his daughte

Elsa OLIVERA, at 0920 hours 13 May 1964.

(She was supposed to have co

out with BLANCO and AMBIG-4 in the exfiltration).

The telegram stated

(English translation) "Congratulations,

we are well, love to all,

embrace. Your daughter.", and supposedly indicated

On 14 May 1964,

AMSWIRL-1 was told by Daniel RODRIGUE

Santos that Valentin BLANCO, relative of Armando BLANCO Lorenzo, had

received three telegrams from Cuba:

the first on 10 May stated

"Armando arrived all is well" ; the second on 11 May stated,

"Armando

departed, all is well"; and the third on 13 May stated, "Yesterday's

cable no

good, Armando admitted or hospitalized", meaning Armando

BLANCO had been picked up by Cuban authorities.

him that the 14 year old

(see para 3 A above) had

called his father in Miami at 1130 hours that same date, and told him

he had been arrested along with his mother and some other people while

trying to leave Cuba,

and that the police

bad let the children free,

but continued to hold the adults under arrest.

Reportedly only

one car had. been picked up near the exfiltration point, and the people

In the other two cars had supposedly escaped arrest for the time being

As ef 23- May 1964

no other information has been reported to KUBARK

on the late of BLANCO, AMBIC-4, Or the passengers who were at the

exfiltration point.

GENERAL COMMENTS ON TRIP OF THE M/V ADA

As noted in paragraph 8 of refarence J,

various operational

inconsistencies still exist in the account submitted above re the

exfiltration trip of the M/V ADA to Cuba.

WAVE is of the opinion

that some of these inconsistencies can be attributed to genuine con-

fusion of facts by the principal source of information, Rogelio LOPEZ

Sosa, (who did not see the infiltration team of BLANCO

and AMBIG-4

again after their infiltration inland), and the withholding of facts

by AMLEO-3 who considers this activity.was his own personal büsiness

and had nothing to do with KUBARK.

Daniel RODRIGUEZ Santos is

probably more knowledgeable of exactly what occurred during the inf1l-

tration, but due to his illness AMSWIRL-I was not able to interrogate

him in Key West, and reportedly RODRIGUEZ is still very 111 and

KUBARK does not

consider it worthwhile to attempt an interrogation

of him at this time.

It is also believed that RODRIGUEZ will withhold

information he considers privileged,

and it has been noted that

AMLEO-3's principal organizer of the expedition, Marie REMIS,

been visiting RODRIGUEZ daily in Mount Sinai hospital in Miami, Fla.

Since the two infiltrees,

BLANCO and AMBIG-4, are either under

or in hiding it is doubtful that their inside activities

relative to

AMLEO-3's family etc., Will ever be completely clarified.'

to look for methods whereby he may exfiltrate his

As noted in paragraph 9 of reference i family from Cuba,

AMLEO3 continues

and has reached the point where he is no longer rational

reasoning re the risk factors to himself or his family. AMLEO-3 is

FORM

5.60

(40)

53a

USE PREVIOUS EDITION.

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

PAGE NO.

6

CONTINUED

---

## Page 7

13-00000. 446

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

UFGA-15595

definitoly acting out or dosporation,

and although he does not desire

to burn all his KUBARK bridgos behind

he feels that he must since

KUBARK will not permit him to undertake such activities while under our

WAVE's position on the

matter has been fully stated in

paragraph 9 of reference j.

On 22 May 1964 WAVE requested BARR to con-

tact AMSWIRL-1 and inform him that KUBARK was desirous of having him

Insure that the M/V ADA was not permitted to carry out further

rescue missions to Cuba at this time.

Cin Chari

Andrew1K. REUTEMAN

POUCH SECURITY VIOLATION

NO FIELD DISTRIBUTION

IS COPY.

g0, 530

USE PREVIOUS EDITION

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

PAGE NO.

CONTINUED

---

