104-10763-10008



: rf : ; ay S2cPET : a)

aa

> =

S
is
~~

‘TARGET PERSONALITY DATA

.
ABLE OF CONTEN:3 ‘ ,
Page No.
Basic Biographic Data aia
Curriculum Vitae ‘6
pee and Private Data : 7
Politient Data He ah
Job Data : : : i uy
fue ce F. Control pate : on
logical Assessment

~/ G+ Peyeh:

'
L.



SECRET

: - 339
aA 201 BED G

‘TARGET PERSONALITY DATA a

A. Basic Biographic Data

1. Full Rane. ae

Eapebdio AZCUZ Lopes

Chinese characters and/or telecodes. Available in AZCUE's 202

Heme at birth.

Aliases, legal changes.

Date end place of birth.
Circa 19113 Havana, Cuba

Citizenship.
Cuban :
Previcus nationality; racial or athnie background.
Spomishy

Orficial identity or travel papers.
Guban Passport Ne.77" {£e°Bf 2968)

Futhes: BY data (open new TPD form if feasible).



SECRET

-2-

20. Mother: same as 9.

VL. Spouse: sane as 9. t
Carmen BILRAO Olivares de AZCUE ( Reportedly, AZCUE hae divorced his

.

wife and is now marrfed to a 25 year old girl, who has had a child by
him, AZCUS's former wife was last krown to be in Spain with a daughter).

12. Children: same as 9.
Buarbio AZCUE Bilbao ( Studying architecture in Mexicoe. Cuban : |
Passport. ow 2669-"Arrived in Mexico on BcBederdar(I96S. RESLOES
at 1 "Oral. Prin 98-20", (UFGA=2h4:20,32 Jan 66- Source + CCA ( Cuban !
‘Aviation Company) Passengers Hote t
Miguel AZGUE Bilbao

23. Siblings: same ee .

Bouree reported that AZGUE hag.a sister living in the United States,
(mg 021878, 7 26. Angst '1963— (crmat1-9)}

ol

ool



SECRET

Us. Other relatives by blood or marriage: same as 9.

15. Religion. @iast

16. Education.

KZCUE studied architecture at ‘the University
never obtained a degree,

17. Languages; dialects.

Speaks
French : '

of Habana. although he



SECRET

abe
Py
1B. Military service.
Subject was involved in the Spanish revolution,
19. Bistory of employeent,
i
1
1

20. Record of arrests.

France. ( iX 320, 16 Hay 63),

een a ne ree

Source seported that about 1992, AZCUE wae believed to have veen
arrested by French authoritien on charges resulting from his
involvement in smupling penestilin and other antibiotics into



a.

‘Other identifying features. |

Physical description.
Sex. Male

Age. 56

Apparent age.
Betght. sto"

Weight, i70 ( UPCA-1153,22 Sep 63)
AMIMIOB=2.

Build. Roruler

Posture. re ot

Face shape. H

Eyes. Hecht cray or green

Hair. yedddsheblond which 1s wavy and gi ( always looks as ~
though he were in need of a haircutde }

Beard or mustache. Muslalche

Complexion. flushed

‘Teeth. yellow { stained) 2

Scars. :

Habits of dress. careless, untidy

Ethnie type appearance. ‘
Caucasian

General appearence.

Prominent features, wrinkles on nock : |

wears glasses sith heavy dark brow frame for reading purncses.
Smokes Hexican «iparettes "“iltron" continually. oe



SUCHET
-6-
FT i
j “
i 8. Curriculum Vitae (Chronologically by year fros birth to present).
ae sceitieeaeneniiensseanie
\ Date Location Position Activity
. 9Mi-wid-1950% Spain, Cuba enrloyed at the Caildhood and o:
| . Cuban crbassy in pevolutiorar:
Yadrid in 19h3 attempting to bring about a
] socialist regina in Cuba,
{ 39s2 France Residence Smuggling activities
| x
: 1953-2958. Kexioo
a 1959-28 Now 67 Mexico Cuban Consul Semgeling guns and auninitions
: ( Recalled to Havana) to Cubs,
i Now 63~1965 Cuba + employed with JUCEPLAN
Cuba official of the Wetional Responsibility of the
Council-of .Colture Pavillion at the kxpo
67 in Montreal

sicher

ia Bn en eae ernment mot a



-T-
a!
:
| ©. Personal and Private Data
1. Address and telephone mumber of present residence.
| : 2. Mature and deseriptica of lodging and surroundings.

Location of residence, vith respect to target installation.

Other residents of building: BI data.

Servants: BI data.

6. Meals: where, when and with whom?

-O

g
|

‘earnest mecca nee a mae mene



9. Dentist; physician: BI data.

: SECRET

: 4.

: :

i)

} ‘
! :

i '
ie 7. Barber: BI data. :
. ‘

H 8. Tailor: BI data. 7

i

'
|

10. Shops frequented.

VU

2L. Church attended.

1
H

12. Sports, participant: time participating, vith vhont

13. Sports, spectator: times etterding. -

Ub, Time et residence.

+ sme crapem emer! + naar eanheetenttgeerent men naeen



SECRET

-9-

15. Normal after bours activity. Do bis activities fore a pattern of any 5
i ieta sort?

16. Theatwr, cinema, ticket agencies: frequency of visits, ties, vith vhoa? ‘

17. Might clubs, cafes, pubs: frequency of visits, times, vith whoo?

Vacations: how and where spent? Mode of travel, with whor?

5

19, Bebbies, reisted club memberships, lodges and fraternities. . Orde:

rs,
Mascnic and other.



elle

. 2. Mail deliveries to residence: details. ‘

25. Dispatch of personal mail: details.

H
|
‘
86. Correspondents: details inoluding frequency.

27. ‘Telephone: details of calls, : .

2B. Tobacco: details.

23. alcool: detoitc. #
fa Scoject ‘Yara heavy 4rinker vhen he vas posted in Mextoo.
pelieves that AZCUS-ts drinking lese now.

aa) Guia

ew


SE0FZT :

+

30. Casual ova: detatie,

3. Other habits.

32. Mole of transportation on different occasions.

33. Private automobile: details of wake, Licunse, ete.

34. Garage and service stations used.



SECRET
“13.

35. Real estate owned: location, description, value.

Chattel property: location, description, value.

r
Personal bank accounts: location, amounts.

Other property: description, value.

Other relevant personai information:

SECRET

|

rm



Politics! Data

1.

2.

3.

a,

5.

6.

Party membership.

Party functions.

Societies,
Labor unions.

Degree of political conviction and indoctrination: cite evidence.

Groat) o vas certain that AZCUR is not s Comuntet, nots
menbor 33 peated that AZCUS fe an implacable foe of “the
Pentagon @: rultny les in the US® but has a high regard for
the American pespieé LS ‘inks AZCUE is @ loys] Fidelists who
would never knowingly cooperate with the Americans, ( Memo fer the
Resordes Heeting with (L-9) # Nov 1963)

According to AMKNOB, AZCUB admitted that he has beon a Comumist for
many yoarse

Other pols!



UPd

ia) SECRET an

-15-

=

| %. Job Data

ile 1, Job title. Official National Council of Culture

2. Official documents and credentials carried.

i “3.. Rank and salary.
: : (-p)porieves AZCUE 42 receiving less than 600 pesos monthly.

} a, middances.

(feninau

Hi :

{ 5. Other income,

| : 6, Where employed. Cuba

i : 7

eae %. Basic duties: description. By whom assignedt By whom directly
supervised? BI date.

“4

| o

i

BECReT

sen dpnastit tsetse nig cated MESA aie a nb IM torte



jae : SECRET
16+

8, Special duties: description. By whon assigned? By vhcw directly a i
supervised? BI date.

ries
9. superiors: degree of intinacy. According to (-9)) AZCUE was called tn
about Sept 65 by Osmani CIENGUEGOS and almost fired from his job- Celia
SANCHEZ was also critical of AZCVE. AZCUE who ‘been given the
responsibility of the Pavillion at the 2XPO 67 in Montrea? had Pieetesu
© Gpperently failed miserably in fulfilling his job. GIZNFURGOS, who con- iin
dered the the EXPO 67 affair a very very dmportant event told AZCUB he

had "abandoned" the project a ge AZCUE was at the point of
. Deing fired when he produced a letter he had written to a government
organization which asked for assistance ei it had not been forthcorings -
{his letter apparently "saved" AZCUS from being aumnarily fired from his
put it aid not stop CIENFUSGOS from relieving AZCUE of his
Fesponsibilittes re EXPO 67. This run-in with CTENFUEGOS has made AZCUE
a very bitter mn end he wants to gat out of Cuba as soon as possible. . vy
<> Hag gros plans are to leave Cuba for Mexico around the end of the year. 67K 1) ¥
‘A2CUS plans to use a_bad vertebrae as “sover® to get to Hexicoe 7
(eno for Renorts~ EITAMIL-9) 15 Noverber 64).

ol

LL. Does evoject associate with 4ndigenous persons, foreign representatives,
or businessucit Wwhot BI dats.

2 iy


SECRET “~
-17-
im)

ve '
{

| i
H 7 .
| '
1

! ‘
i t
eee 12, Leison contacta: official, umofficial, functions, BI data.

)

13. Telephone contacts: details of calls.

SECRET

2 rmmanern intB et rann rarer nepre



™~ SECRET ~
-18-

Uk, Work schedule: days of veek, hours, location. Include night and ‘
: holiday vork, tiwes and places.

15. Lunch and rest periods, vhere and with who?,

16, Times, routes, vehicles, coupanions from lodgings to ana from work.



ais SECRET oa

: : -19-
ae
| : V7. Regular conferences or meetings: times and places. 7
i
,
18, Profess!onal travel: details. : :
AZCUE entered on 5 Ne yr 1965 and remained until 17 Deceaber 65.
Fis activities, tawa Statioy knowledge, were confined to maxing 7
Be er lo erning the Cuban Government's proposed building at
EXPO 67. ee 4 February 66). .
'
a ze A
' 8
i : bed
i | 1
19, Bubject's access to safes: location, descriztion. Access to keys 5 H
and combinations. :

SECRWT

in)


SECRET
: -2-
~
20, Access to target information, Details. 7
'
‘
i t
\
\ ,
i
Pl. Passes carried.
a

22, Keys carried.

23. Professional reputation.

gh. Other relevant job date.

BEORH

ete nee SA OE ES oe



Untelidconce Attiliation

Fiena Garro de PAZ, Hoxican writer reported that Vietor GALAY,
fhe Fro-Cuban journalist, ‘old her that AZCUE was a Spanish Suban une
hai fought. for a while in the. Spanish Civil war, at which time he was
giao, ty his ovn adatssion, a French intellizence agents Because ot

All health, he left the war in Spain and went to Hexico, where he worked
for a while for “-esiient Lazaro CARDENAS,
( Encl 4-727 froa Mexico, 9 Janaury 66),

ALCUE was involved in alleged esptona,

ge in Mexico for the Cuban Government
in 1961, ( DBP-97388, 19Decenber 61)

can Republic who were in exile in

Mexico and against vhose governments the Cuban Embassy carried out a
Programse of propaganda and subversion” (eaheeay" 20 May 60) »
22

11 Thc eemmanaattinieaiaoinntet tte ements

{
i
|.
1



20. Mistresses or lovers: times and places of meeting; BI data.

21. Personal friends: mes and places of meeting; BI data.
AZCUR and (LITAMIL-9 are intinate friends.

i
{
t

22. Persons vho visit Subject at residence: times, BI data. |
Lee Harvey Oswali vas probably in contact with AZCUE-during the period
28 September-30 October 1963 when the latter was @uban Consul, It is
surmised that the reference in ‘nwali's 9 Noveaber letter to a person
who bad since ban replaced must refer to AZCUE, who left Mexico for
Cuba on a permanent transfer on 18 Novenber 1963, four days before the
assassination. Reportedly, AZCUZ told AMKNOB-1 on 13 August that he was
expecting a friend to replace him in Hexico.and that he was going to
Cuba to work for the Cuban peasant housing programs WAVE~9457,21 Deo 635
‘XAAZ-22781,17 Sep 64,

23. Persone Subject visite: times, places of and reasons for visits
(business, personal, etc.), BI data.



eee eee net

F. Control Data

Ll. Posily difficulties,

2, Difficulties in office, With whoa? Why? Details,

3. Difficulties with friends.

h, Difficulties vith wistresses or lovers.



~ SECRET

a12-

5. Political difficulties. Details.

6. Black market activity.

7% Smuggling activity.

8. Acceptance of bribes.

9. Persons to whou ‘most attached.

SECRET



- SECRET bet

=23-

! : 10. Property to which sost attached. '
!

H + Li, Inforsation which could be used to blackwail.

12. Ynforsation which sould be used to shock or depress.

i
| HE 13. Other relevant control data.



SECRET

#2he

G. Psychological Assessment +

1, Appearance, Habite and Mannerisns
@. Appearance

4) Describe his personal appearance
sion and attention to details. Ys é
Prissy, conventional, individualistic? Consider attention to

and care of clothivg; general grooming, including attention to
hair, nails, general cleanliness, etc.

» in terns of over-all ispres- :
Is he well-groomed, neat, fu:

2) Deseribe his ordinary style of dress. Is it conventional for

his culture, or extreme or unique? Is it usually appropriate

: or inappropriate for particular cccasions? Is he fashionable,
overconscious, or inattentive to his own dress?

G



vw

~ SECRET

225

3) Describe his custocary surroundings (hooe, room, office,

etc.). Are they neat, organized, tasteful, sloppy, inviting, if

business-like, offensive, “lived-in,” stodgy?

Expressiveness

1) How expressive is he? What kind of gestures, or facial man-
nerisss, or verbal expressions does he use characteristically?
Bow frequently and spontaneously does he use then? Are they
effective, habitual, contrived, natural, annoying?

i
i



2) Describe any characteristic signs of tension (fidgeting, leg

crossing, finger arusaing, nail bitirg, clothes brushing, toy- ’
i: ing vith pipe or keys or other objects, picking at face, strok-
ing arws or legs, foot tapping, etc), Note the circusstances 7

or situations viere these are likely to occur, and vhen they
are likely to stop or to be noticeably absent.

t

3) Does he use profanity? What kind, vhen and hov often? If not, ;
vbat kind of expressions or sannerisms does he use, vhere others : {
wight use profanity to expresa enotion or emphasis? ;

4) Characterize his reference to sex. Consider frequency, occasion i
and quality or content of sex references. Are they smutty, mildly “
of?-colored, ciever-scphisvicated, hostile, matter-of-fact? what petetiess)
As bis behavior toward, and attitude tovard prostitutes? fae

rata ne nag tn seca een nc



5) Describe his eye movement patterns, and.the circusstances asso-
= eisted vith thes. Does be tend to saintain direct eye contact
wher. talking? Does ‘he eaintain eye contact, close his eyea, or

look avay while thinking, or reflecting, or reminiscing?

6, Ssoking, frinking, and Eating,

1) Describe his smoking behavior: vhat he seokes, hov frequently,
‘and the circumstances vhich affect hia rate or pattern of
wwoking,

2). Describe his drinking behaviors what he Lik how much and
how often he drinks under “ordinary circumstances” (and how
he would define "ordinary circumstances"), what his normal.
érinking pattern and pace is, and how he ordinarily reacts or
‘ehsves when drinking heavily, or too much,



3) Descrite bis ordins:y eating tehavior: what ere bis typical
food preferencest Ices he tave any :romounesd dislikes? Does
eating tae on any special importarce? Is he a faddist, a
chronic dieter, s cavtious ar selective eatert

A) Indulgences in his attitude tovard eating, drinking and seoking,
Goes he sees to be sensual and self indulgent? Ie @ person
of sharp, dominating appetites; or does he take these things as
matters of course, to sustain life or to promote socinlisings or
Goes he tend to ignore them, or to sinisize their ieportance? .

4, Health and Stanina wes y on
fa

1) What ie his general state of health? What kinds of ilinesses is Hecht
he likely to have, and how often? Does he have characteristic,
or favorite methods of treatcent, or medicatimn, or drugs?

Oo

SECRET

co



2) What etode of ¢ e.trme oF complaints does he have bout bealthy
fatigue, or atluenta, ard hov often OF Ot reguterly?

3) What te the relation between his *health cowplaints” ard bis
apparent “true state” of health? “Is he & chronic cosplainer,
or preoceupted with health and fitness? “Is ao norusily evare

Of nis “true” condition? Ie he stoic, ena Likely to suffer
silently even vhen cosplaints stent be considered “reasonable?”

h) Describe bie normal activity level. Is he physically active,
or passive? Is he quick acting, oF slows “nervous;” easily
fatigueds untiring; always on the got



2. Skills

a.

iS

w

-~

Weat specific skills or abilities does he possess? Consider mé-
chanical ekilis (such aa tutliieg, repairizg, handicrafts, mechanics,
ete.); social skills (social effectivenes: » entertaingent skills,
conversational atilities, organtzing and “sparning® e:{lities, ete.)
physical skills (incliu.ng sports, outdooreansnip,: cooréination
Skile); intellectual exilis (vriting, syeaking, analyzing, theoe
rizing, problew solving, etc.), Consider occupational Listory,

hobbies and part tise activities as vell as Present profession or
vork, :

Among hie skills snd abttt ne cS particularly well?
Bow were these ekiils acnieved and ieveloped (‘naturally," self

taught, trained, diligent effort)? : i

BYCKE?



-3le

-~

5 ©. Is it apparent that be has certain sajor deficiencies? What ‘
things does be do poorly, or ineptly? What kinds of activities ‘
does “e avoid, or approach vith reluctance?

4, How does he regard his skills and abilities? Is he modest? Does j t
! bo underestinate his abilities? Is he confident, or grateful, oF \
; doasteult | :
i \
oF
: @. Hov do others regard his abilities? Do they tend to underestimate '
bie, or overestivate him, or recognize and appreciate his actual
ability level? !
“|
1:
o

Senco sami Ranreeensst  ommenme ot



3. ‘Interpersonal Behavior

Deserite his typical social behavior: is he natural, cosfortable,
varn, affeble, shy, passive, guarded, asgressive, stereotyped,
patronizing? Is he “naturally” social, or does he depend on pre-
pared conversation, games, "business" or other props? Does he meet
people easily, and get along well? Does he dominate conversations,
initiate topica, "go along” vith discussions, or hold back? Consider:

1) His behavior when he is with one other person.
2) His behavior vhen he is part of a group.

3) His bebavior with respect to different groups or people: peers,
subordinates, superiors.

4) His behavior tovard wembers of the opposite sex.



>. How do others characterize hin? Is he regarded es outgoing, re- ;
served, a lone volf, warn, self conscious, cynical, depressed, '
critical, considerste, selfish, conforming, argumentative?

c. Deseribe his “physical contact” behavior, in typical social set- .
tings. Is he a tack-slapper, hand holder, shoulder draper? How fi
uch does he use or depend on’ physical contact or props, for com~
munication and support? Is he a finger stabber, a shoulder puncher,
‘an elbow grabber, a table leaner?

i
i

“@. What especially strona opinions does he hold? How firm are his
convictions on contreveraial issues?

BEORET

seme ponte name oa necro Mer rn ee


e.

ft.

c

ro

~ SACRED

-3be

Where possible, describe his handling of the folloving situaticas,
using illustrative anecdotes:

1) Being introduced to a strange person.

2) Deciding where end what to eat; or what to do for entertain-
ment.

3) Organizing hie day's vork.

Give « summary estimate of his poise and self assurance.

Give a sunmary evaluation of i.» judgement, Aiscretion and
naturity



~ SECRET

-35-

4, Family Orientation

a, Dereribe his relationship vith hia immediate family. What is the
relative importance of his family vs. his job, or other activities:
How much does he participate in family activities? Does he play
with his children; take his wife to partiest Does he demonstrate
affection? How and hov freely? Does hie family seea to be a

source of pride, a responsibility, a basis of support and reassur-
ance, a burden?

D. What kind of position does he occupy in the family? Is he auto-
cratic end dowineering; firmly in control; deferrent; subservient

fos to hie wife; "anything for the kids"; overly permissive, lex,

| a passive?



¢. What are his feelings about bis family when they are separated
(for example, when he is on a trip, alone): is he elated,
depressed, incapacitated, concerned, unconcerned, sentimental,
guilty? Does he carry and show photographs?

“ @. What seem to be his general life goals? Ie he seeking social or
professional prestige, money, possessions, a place in history,
o) . ‘another meal? What professional aspirations does he hola? What

i
| : 5. Personal and Professional Goals.
ambitions does he cherish for his wife, or his children?

e

' b, To vhet extent 1s he motivated by self intensst: by family interests

i dy group, or team, or organizational loyaliico; by patriotiss or

i ethnic or cultural identification; by humaniterienisa, or religious,
or political idealise?

fad

|
‘
\
i
1
‘

{



: SECRET

-3T-

4 c. What are his personal pursuits and sources of satisfaction? Con-
sider his hobbies, avocations, amateur interests, including books,
art, chess, stamp collecting; his attitude tovard sport: and ex-
ercise, and the extent of his participation or spectator interest.
What special interests or skills does he have in these areas; how
uch tine does he devote to them, and under vhiat circusstances?

4, Does he have any pet peeves, complaints or grievances?

e@. Does he believe in any particular political, religious or social
system or idea or ideal? To what extent: is he dogmatic, fanati-
cal, a “true believer,” passive, uncritical, sophisticated, naive,
“take it for granted?” Cite evidence by direct quotes, or by
paraphrases, where possible. Does he bave any special training
in these matters?

5


aac! SECRET
-38-

f. Does he indicate euffictent receptivity to nev ideas, to tolerate
charges in his teltefet In vhat vaya is he likely to be most sus-
ie ceptible to changes

& Sumwerize vhat you consider to be his ecet prominent character-
Antica (ascets and Liehilities, susceptibilities, reactions,
qualities of uniqueness, otc,} What three, cr five, or ten vords
would describe bin best?

f
,



SECFE?

-3-

b, Discuss any difficulties involved in revieving and assessing this
Subject's behavior and personality. Consider spparent contradic-
tions in behavior; wide variations, due to sources or differing
situations; the extent to vnich he "fills out” as an individual;
major areas or questions which seen unansvered or mysterious, ete.

2. Compare or contrast him with the “typical” man of his society, :
In vhat vays does he typify his om group stereotype; or, in vhat
ways is he markedly different fron "the norw™ of his group, his
society, bis culture or his clique?

SECRET : i



Secret.
hoe

*" 6. Personal Attributes

Cirele one trait in each pair if it ie generally charecteristic of the
subject. Use the “consents” column to indicate the degree to vhich the
eireled trait characterizes his (i.e., very auch, or slightly), and for
any qualification of the rating (for example, the behavior may vary on
a given trait with different situations; or the rater nay be reminded
of related traits, etc.). If neither of the terms in a pair are appro-
indicate “not epplicable” or “not observed" under the “comments”

SacREr

‘TRATTS comms 1
Cirele one trait in each pair :
Asbitious = Batiefied i :
Apathetic - — Fathusiastic ‘
Sensitive - Bard Botled
Conventional . ‘Individualistic ‘
Dirverd © Chareing H
Deliberate - Impulsive i i
Woody - Placita i
Aesthetic - Crude !
Reserved « Responsive .
Precise - Vague i
Cynical = Kaive H
Decisive + Indecisive |
Versatile + Specialized :
Withdrawn = Bocial 1
Intellectual - Practical | :
Distractible - Disciplined { *
Shrewd - Obvious }
Intense - Relaxed
Ware = Cold |
Oo Dependent ~ Independent i :
Y
|
|
i



Teu0} 0K
yeot80y
’

earaaatan
@atzinqay


a

Intuitive - Logical
Objective - Emotional
Hov quickly does he "catch on” or get the point of a simple

anecdote tr story? How quickly does he respond vith an
@ppropriate story or anecdote of his om?

How does he respond to praise? How “thickly” does he like
at laid ont

How does he respond when verbally attacked? Justifiably?

Unjustifiadlyt



“t

SER?
2.
) ;
4. Does he enjoy denigrating otherst Superiors? Peers? Inferiors? =
,
¢
©» How knovledgesble 1a he of current local gossip? | ‘
£. Is bo willing to accept the credit for something ho has not | a
done if it 1s mistakenly attributed to hin? :
: i
‘ See i
: !
ia Does bs epeak up and accept blame for things he has done if ray
it appears likely he my not be "found out?" ibe d
'
A
;
)
| J
Tew

