# 104-10181-10096

## Page 1

104-10181-10096

PETURNTO CIA

Background Use Oriya

Do Not Roproduce

Caler, Contret Dirlidon, Attn: Bupport (Crowley)

Dr : chies, Detroit office

I. B. Titterburt, Cleveland Senident Agent

abbert i. Hebater

Ze get 59

A-79430

00 20 0ct 59521.400:ot

Cocans of 0s1-and his-p

sent La Cliveland Mifor O

bot Kittens, anall

chat they wouldn

k with atr. Rittenburg: Cochri

allowing /quention

secretary regarding the find

ebeter cone, ri

nich be aaid, that

Level ate force interosta: vantod

an ane

these

gani clons; telepho

Bob frarly on the die dav,. are

as follows

"In this offloe doing anything conceming Webater"a defectiou

Di.

€.

"It pot,

do they contormlate doing anything?"

"What would thie offlee have done 1I kebater hed returned normally?"

2.

Barly on the 2int, after trying to reach Cochran usuccessfully on

the afternoon of the

20th to find that his line was buay, Rittenburg tele

phoned the lattor, regarding thie matter. Rittonburg had a secretary mike

notos on the call, thritting to Cochran. Cochras's Fisst question, arter the

wis: "Do you have the anovers to those questionai". fittenburg

won! "hello"'"I don"t know mything about this ran, only sat i have rd in

Informed hiz,

the nevspapera"®

He asked, "Hothing offlelal?": to which Rittenburg retterated

"'o, only what I have toltoved in the press"• Cochran went on to say that *It

turped out it's not mi bad as it looks on the surface. He had no accese to :

clanalfied naterial". During the conversation Rittenburg Inforsed Cochran

that- he bad tried to telephone the previous afternoon, but had found the tol.

ephone busy.

He also expressed his' negret that he had not been In for Cochran's

vilt and pointed out that the: Istter should have telephosed ahead. Bittenburg

ald that he was sorry thist be coulda't be of uny help in the ratter, to whici..

Coctirin replied with "C'est la vie. Well anytling I can do for jour".

then

told "Eot st the nomeut", be stated,

"If there 10, call as", for which Rittenburg

thanked hia before saving "Good-bye"

3. It wa difficult to understand why Cochran would attempt to maia such

an approacn to the Cleveland office, lot alone expect ansvers to such questiona

as be put forth.

Espittenbang: ne

JAKES B.. MIRPEY

---

