# 104-10187-10017

## Page 1

LIENPTY/LICALIA

→ T.T PSTICK /LICALIA 5005-2°

1120

JIN OCHEN

Panorant

tumaduft

10 ANILIVINIS

7H. 140

CUNN INITI

SO MANENEI

32700/11

TE2T

BLGL 70r g8

1017.2.10

SE TTP

HLVUL

Pete tin

OTATUT

509

-MONaRMIT 1111

24004-28101-40L

11 IV

---

## Page 2

CONFIDENTIAL

NOTiCE

THIS FILE HAS BEEN PROCESSED AND RETIRED. DO NOT

ADD ANY DOCUMENTS TO THIS FOLDER. FORWARD CS

DOCUMENTS THAT SHOULD BE INCLUDED IN THIS FOLDER

TO RID/RPU GE-58.

NOTICE

CONPIDENTIAL

pops

2593

IT-IJ1

---

## Page 3

SECRET

FROM: (Headquarters component;

WH/1

TO

SUBJECT AND PROJECT FILE REQUES!

AND FIELD NOTIFICATION OF ACTION

IP/AN

s (Statton/Base)

Nexico City

FROM: (DIvision)

WHD

INFORMATION FOR REQUESTERS

COMPLETE ITEMS I PHAÓUON IA?

TEM TIO-ENICA OLD TITLE WHEN AMFADINO A

TITLE. CITE

ANY. FILES: SUCH-AS "01 OR PHOJEC! FILES THAT ARE RE"

MEN S'-ALL FAR TITLES MUST BE STERILE SINCE TNEY WHL

LATEO TO THE FILE COVLHO BY THIS RIGULOT ITEM TO MAY

APPEAR ON THE FILLO COPILS'AND ON MACHINE LISTS

ALSO DE USCO TO GIVE MASONS FOR THE ACTION USING REL

STEA O'-ALE REMARKS MUST DE STERILE.

QUESTED.

TO OINTITY THE TYPE OF MATERAL TO UE PLACED

IN A VILE OR TO MAKE OTHER INPLANATONY ALMANCE..

ITEM D'AND @-USE FIRST THREE LETTERS OF DISPATCH SYM:

BOLS fOR FIELD STATIONS

AND. LIST HEADQUARTERS ILE.

TOMI -A'RECOROS OFFICER MUST SKIN ALL PILE ACTION HE-

MENTS ACCORDING TÓ ISTABLISHEO NUMERIC CODES.

QUESTS: CONSULT YOUN HAG'ON ANY PROULEMS THAT ARISE.

INFORMATION CONCERNINO FILE

TIPS'OP TILE

CODE (FILES NUMBER

COUNTHT HUNGLE

CATEGORY NUMNER

-ISPICINIC CUEJECT NUMBEF

SUDJECT

PROJECT

050

•006

: 074/7

3. FILE TITLE ISPECITE SUBJECTI IPHONECTS LIMITED TO IS SPACESI

KDFACTOR / KDLItERAL

ACTION

REQUIRED

OPEN FILE

AMENO FILE TITLE

8. REMARKS I FOR FIELD DISTHINUTIONI

ANALYSIS ACTION

CLOSE FILE INON. TE BISPOSITION:

REOPEN

HETAIN

DISPOSITION

DLSTRUCTIOR RECOMMENDED

THRU IDATE

7. INTERESTEO STATIONS IPROJECTS ONLY

HOM

HOLD IN

CS FILES

RESTRICTED

B. INTERESTED HEADQUARTERS DESK PLAST ACTION DESK FIRSTI

FILES ACTION

UNRESTRICTED

050

CHANCE FERMANINTLY TO

PREPARE FOLDER AND

OFFICER @ DESKI

SEND TO REQUESTER

1O. COMMENTS INCLUDE SPECIAL HEADQUARTERS ROUTING INSTRUCTIONSI

18.

ENDORSEMENT

SIGNATURE OF SRANEN/DESK A. D.

#630

EFFECTIVE DATE

23

July 1973

DESOLElL PREVIOUS

812

EDITIONS

086 12-69

82.

COORDINATION

SIGNATUNE DE DRANCHUESA.R. O

EMiNEN APPLICABIES

50

SECRET

13.

HID APPROVAL:

HEQUEST APPROVLO Or

CODE FILES NUR

06

A7ER

38

74/7

I-C8 COPY

---

## Page 4

Hmmw. tot

3/12/56

Sov. Photo.

---

## Page 5

DISPATCH

6. 458l a

Biol

Mate Fo

one Carina deta

cain

Mor of alatinn, Muler City

ABlan Angusrals PuT Your Information

Profat, tao solod ir proparo a securlto roomo, luluding blo ostalona, on

mainte it thalr arlarm Me Pullinin arrama comtaln a alichtly

PUEN verAlOn ME UnNiE = murt, shich mao nanired on 23 neceaber 1'166.

Stablin premente follin TERiand'a end are an arcel.

MENNIS

In Its parent no location LITIc in ebo roost af the photo bases

under ly coetral. attiraira lo LIEMPy-19, thar noo born no irdiestion of

1narvet of any onse by eni sinlote in the mally'o sore to ths any apartent

nor sas there in the puol ary abs af Intarat ur perallar lebarinr in their

so under photo cretllanco.

lo: "ho ouros lor the mort caryled ou ly tale baso l8 good alace the

a more at buse ald of the ten. To on, LOTTI-IT 10 6 Milenl

storers und attends ala clues malarly and con juntity dio lure ea

marty prey.

(En cinelso to be an encallest studys and tao anapted iron

annistsuna ne the rost is thia; bla second roar lo andeal ashoul. horually,

Da stalles. 106t i the niant).

LTDOpY-La rjuires an doror so he beo fa

cant leande .:

stration:

3= ClothI

LICALLA

?? !

591E MOD AND BANCE

506-12260

SSCRET

GAJ&

8 January 1967

HO 8 FALL ARMONI

50-6.32/3

---

## Page 6

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

TAINETOS

SECRET

P1319 200 tuN

D01-1U6t

* The sot-up in lie old as vall ao the sue base le the follora

venotian bllade men co alas recret.

Tula nar in lockal to Loep servants

ut any charice intruder fra emoring.

The operatina do nit apard all thor

Elmo bahina the canira, lut po to the elicinir balras men a tablo and

typ00r1405 are out up and mere tho dally lugs am trario, littin done,

or none sting actlully lat dens not rejuire mill enmitration lo earlad out.

The curatna dal tilain in this mora are kope partlally or filly een to allo

1i0l of tho dally event of.

the tortol permal la Pillied tres cola rous art then 1% 16 noopedary to

cade picturos of yeleuro, untron persons or soul arrivoid Seniota, tha

operators go to the

GERDDEe Commant, It soets to no that ay caroful observicion by

to sovirts vould havo rormimi the lali-talo position of tha macelan slinda

ln boto the old and the no mioen.. I hare no doubt that the Sovieto reallio

chay are under phuco curval dance.

The cata by the laally tron tho mid to tha

no vulldine mut rely havo boen rotad by, the Aorlots, Rianibly too dovlete

Ehlas the saally le enraina vich the Loon' asthoritios do to LITTY-L's

Comme associatlon Mes the Maxious Argi

Station Cinera.

observation by

61120144

the soviets mild ravo rovaled tho utaains alat in tha vonathan

not alno the lace, that tbean blime are enlice upon, mo dratlon ala

arnoo that the dovlera maliao that 1097 are unlar Shito 01yye112a11081

PhAr Chay CrAIg ba ser: ly mesoone wabchlie, viris a, tolescoço

Mine the butlings pure the arent. alto, si Harquartore 10 arm, them

have doan nuconus court by rentiants or

inxlen City to Elio strect that

anyone antarina ine surlot inbunar to Beagraphod; Wwoo, deldom bas 14

ten runnal that the "sonricano" are does it, mich night trilinato sore pouple

01von the rumention that t1s LTYRIC let to blown, tha slation st

ento antne dies not plan te torodrato as tvary the LILTRIC lostallation.

Any protal chanas ly toe comtors, voall'bs apreted by tho Covlata and

The dowleenthavo bool. 10ra.r..11100. 2o cunplan to

It Moalcan Brontone nest told ellier, phorinalcally and have not

91:ere 1n a multial charge is tarles and/er, Mexican illeg, The Station bod

CO ANGIR TRAI LIENTTY-LS Ine Tos JesditHA Malaa la Nia and Eboro)y

* **

LIMITED

Fu sparaior of the UNTiD lago, LIMPii-lla,: to sy kiorledge,

the aldert hand an ton are aurvolliparo no lão toviet corpot out poseibly

the sost lixoly to do "irri",.

Laurench salemen, let ho artually isthat firt at tro

conor and lo st

3310

CBSPATEN

1 8 0N5T

---

## Page 7

CONTiNUATION OB

DISPATCH

initiatri

PEORST

10.

LILYATE GlAD ONly 4. 1.195730

tra 309 o.

Alou, the wie of LooT de the mair lot

:?call has rigure that the slots are rei

aral

• an

"aboardlin"

201-2seucei vet on far as di me shas ho endianne true dIserT é da sechira

cho slots

LICALLA

When the Hivtar.n

• rulin the helphe or the ill in beir backyard

abinet tus yinm men, etion citali dare blockas cringilmaly dam vime sit tbio

sime they did

not do tile, ll malis me e ballento that chry are me arre thre their

in thes other hand, in roient,

with Lies 79-4, the 11-95, hat reported Chas willistles la Cha bark

crATeReo bhare folly: Clo mrial collara: onler thale alassro by a rarto

not minible to litary wit tre eage and shruke lavo me paan brimmer in

ha has never tillced asy luster Intereot In hlo larise or blo Buttreins by

che stall.

reveng li kno operable mom jun to somen trit thin vindor. mich

12.

The cenar fio this Mage la that of a nursal moldencio."

cover mort le tiar, of s car wa Isrumenco salgina: dn a licel autonbilo

cover for the une if lne inneing non to that to does acrutine vort for

allane rings.

gre arno la so;t lated at ali clure and IJEMPTY-y never allomo

the parat tri star.

run for cleantra purposes.

ma sulpenne 18 kepe

staln the rue barn nure in uio an all lips and pintoo

19690N cerement, l illure the strolate are maro of tie photo

survelliano lolla carriad due ty this bear que i the puslelon of the windo

and the curealms surlin thn hur vhen LINTY? li operatiat

Starlin lirate to station dose mit boltone that chle phota baso

19 known for the infia,

overals da miralen wal ipar has bees na tinication that ebe sorter act

Put the lonaple of occant sulle sheig ann la law herkyard. le la Interesting

en part chas sho dirsoes mir no affirt su "printact" chi INENN vall-in gentloried

Daternmite of the wale-the

Padrana lause the lirallo i too school vas limelo chased and tho uhildren

Bied as by aricther route.

callor In 0r99r 80 jialat see security of the licall base.

At a strem cme varrainime to the recurley of the bases in

Cho in: that LIAMSD lo the omar/tulldor vi the new LIbiRD buildin

LDERSONE do doG the Mir MY ESE LIMESA Comples, tongs a haidina epary.

I6, Tra Station madition that unst of the natalin repat do tate

optrima of the primits, do an EDo leatlar a catter as recurd in o

consalidated fore.

EMaSARITIN

---

## Page 8

DISPATCH

Chiola MID:

PROCESSiNG ACTION

SECTAT KAPER

xx

NO MOON

IF want

CAN INOGA CODIN

BACAO KLAP

FHOM

SUBMECT

sator pe mation, hexico cita

LIBATY PrOject Renewel Request

ACTION REQUIRID HUERENCES

Action Requireds See Paragraph 2

Lo Station Mixico City'& Project LUPTY expires on 30 Hovesber

1966, Poverded herwith and under soperate cover la oplit translaoice

Is the Request for Renewal of Project LIlIPTY.

2, It 10 requentod that Project LTRUPTY be renaved for the period

1 Deceaber 1966 through 30 Horseber 1967 In the anount of 445, 000..

af

thie totel, 129,000 should be allotted for FX 1967 and $15,960 Pos

5Y.1967.

for/W12lard C. CURIIS

Attachaent s

Loft hand olde h/y

Right hand side u.B.C.

Detribution:

3 - ChILD v/att b/v& u.s.0.

DROSS RITERENCE TO

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

H201A-30403

CI ASSISICATION

-26 Actober 1966

HOS PRE NUMOIS

30657412

---

## Page 9

2.

the LIBRICK Inatallation and porsonnel. Spectfie exasples of the LITyprY

Project's procress and contributione to the run will be found in Section 3

belov (MICTIVEESS):

operational.- As noted In the previous lequest for Project Renewl,

the fomer LNITED property was sold to LISts, who as per forral acree

went with the station, deroliched the old structuro and cona-ructed a now

edifice.

while It was Initially conte plated to place the LIITEl

(LTEVeTYa -o And =T) porsonnel in the new buildini and to retain the sano,

curl division of vorkload botween LILYRIC and LITTED, it inu Later

neisued to move the present LILYiUC basehouse personnel (LI2PTYc-13, -14,

-26 and -27) Into the now base instead, along with the follorin ancillary.

modifications:

An Increace in the hours of both the photographic ad physical curvolllance

coverace provided fros the new basa by the LILYRIC operatora (r060 1600

hours) durine the weekdayo and to have the LINITED base provide

photographic and plysical curveillance coverage froe 160<- 1030 hourg

on weekdays and fron 0900-1300 hours on weekends. Inese chances were

dictated by the followin considerations:

The new LIMOUSIN building offers a auch better vantage point

for both photographic and physical surveillance then does the

present complex which houses the LILITIC and LaJico bases,

Therefore, tho Station felt that the personnel occupjino thia

new base should be those posuessin the highest tecralcel skille

and aloo those able to provide the eost thorough and couplete

covereite

Since the LIMITED base now hes only one trcired

operator while the LITRIC basehouse has three, the LIHuC aroug

and a revision of working hours wes inuicated.

secause it was apparent that the covernie of the LEslICK

Installation would be a lon ranse eud' continuinz requireent,

the station desired to ntal? the now bese with personal of lon

rance potential.

LInPry-s, now alnost 6o yeers old, does not

possess this potential; horever, the LILVRIC agent complex

happily conbines experienced personiel vith youthful agents.

3o Firally, the social and financial status of the LILYFIC

persormal 13 ruch sore compatibleiend consistent with the er-

vronsert of the new building that 19 that of the LITTeD farily.

The above-cited revised work schedule was Initiated In July 1966 and

the actual covement of the LILYRICs lito the new base begen in lato

Septeaber 1966.

cleans

/2e

---

## Page 10

StONET

16 July 1985

MENORANDUN FOR: Chiel/TBD/OA

sUBJECT

3LINRSALICALLA - Audio/Photo Surves

wa Division would like to express Ite appreciation

for the excellent survey of the LICALlAhARA couples 1n

Mexico City conducted byl

The resulte

from the audio/photo survey will certainly clarify the

feasibility of tochnical operational possibilitles against

the fUsTrAl target.

The photo composite gives the firat

reallotte ploture we have bad of the premises sinco the

hoight of tho original wall was increased, and wo feel sure

this will serve as an examplo to be followed in future

targot analysig offorts by the Mexico City Station,

W. J. Kaufman

C/NE/1

DDP/WH/1/CBustoa-V1ddla:lJc (16 July 1965)

Distribution:

..Or1g & 1 - Addressee

*= LICRSA/OpE

1 - Memo chrono

---

## Page 11

94.00000

9 Su 1

ATTRITION: It. Reutan

:: LDISA/LICALIA - Audio/Photo Survey

Altached berurita 18 the survey repure prepari by the usder

aigned is to renut of blo last TD: 11a1l lo Mexiio CIty.

Harvey C. MJLFORD

Attachness:

Burvey Rrpart

Diatributica:

Ur18. A 1 - Addressee, v/ate

---

## Page 12

LORA/LICAN

lo In pol, 10 en de mid that tan enbien emisio sotes

Dalin la espanle for the argona.

tello Querera

Lave pesa entreis 1a thia gallosion vere testol la preparation fea

Cula suena So tio Mirally calceted da the mes pocas el sa

mito mias del ms que cleron sio. me canta tes te

Tuvan coal Lorel muerte este el bourt nolace la t

tetulty al ana argos Cueland everega loralo el 50.60 la visa ga

ONAN OICOTA ME COL DAS ONIC TRACT UT ER 0Y BURLE 630

Boreste

Bono enmay me tha reto el 6 la enes din the diatra or salen the

o ef tema.

C 5 19 en 6 fing, 10 1 e3 19 1es, on Meses Erinas a Se 1

---

## Page 13

ados as ho-so no voula chariforo la so la etrunger thas te voto

cucasa et the LICULA base.

In the Interfortag nouts vere sa ta

fallecies

Actuly el funes evallehle poder to tho murey 19110200l de

Da llsal erotan soulA jovido sa tengo la votas ter

Untaly pulgad temarical es te veuld unt 18 pecospary 10 gu

Bas all farta boum tis sorral apues partaleing ta

te varales (arming there mould trally te sore thes en).

man tan lindeed flall of vio la moh e suces tais erula sos he

esno socorrilly, eurofure, a umetical pyrbea sould save a

Piala de vos so soar sur fort into sa ana abertura distanos

sevelvete

As à 300 sa leno ras rodily evallablo 18 sus nood fer

ea1a t0e8

So cirigo l6 un sovia cara has a file argaaity o

259 pos, ares vul aller sintos for court raro sintas so

sho coad al de fras por auca.

"le thutter speed tos

Balleved do ba antem fer Lip meding.

The seanirnente made

es tas inarter el to es indentod mat there vas a dultod

cas el sues emileblo boton as onlling and los dp ef

Eso vall auniras tho targot printe. Ao sale dietaste 18

6s18tenl to se calastion el s casta viti en estanal fi

myte, puntoular sitoatie ras peld to thie palas furtig

elo no to elisation, li se onua ha uni sita a 400 reos

---

## Page 14

hn Hệ Đ 1T 28

osa Je too Ti oo, sn a oo ten, mala taro Mala ef ma

•. Henn lovele tam minh das corin eni ho mi ves t

110 (NEA S50) DOtOSE S/Sa aA 1/18 eS 18, ConRolios e verlesr i

poo abo motonta von la lho ma er tho nhois, Tia pririel s esele

ereala depta et flall ae tl alttasors svira. Econurs ceio vit

MoRahra II SUA (ASA 83) sopulrud Lese setaings e8 8/0 eos 5/3-0 0 80

M dusns th snater saro l tho luy. Nia rinuto 1a s moo sar san

m ana el sield snl theseder onlls fer many aritlen, feresing

F1e:

aa suspo proalei onea the cubjeste are nortag bus dusà jedleza da hes

ding pa epusan sm to stalaitad vita sectloa.

this to bebleally beeanse the

De stenl ints Ut Si MAi i0 1 Mn a MRll stro cl

to danasa Ca rosi e8 mno a9 gerasala.

d tes es lta sonnentan preslons end tãa peso leudtaatossi ais

Mo minn s ta, me hit s o ms mi eydnnn ia the goo

FaM DE DỌ E S DOMIN. A DUON MA AleS t0 SETe tO Di

Merl LomY ss t0 Fos, Drst LesTIT NIsty el isre for a lango

Mta musa mi suid mpure a metray ml merturo io ta d daa

A JS000 ES MiENEsTe olA Do ant D ta alons paro es tha tinia, ii te

porsaio cenla loct sut ebru es esartaz in the tunieare.

Co Doranse ef En 20n1end 120lA el Ter morlesl y i beinghe

---

## Page 15

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 16

•RIC

NIT

DC/TSD/OA

18 * 2603

AT 20 May.1965

•: MEXICO CITY

HOM DIRECTOR

TSD 6:

Veb

O NODI

NESSAGE FORM

SECRET

ROUTING

?028 65 41 093

No WHY, COSs, SOD C, FI, Me,

MEXI

¡NO"

CITE BIR

12133

AQUATIC

1. HARVEY C. MULFORD ARRIVING MEXI, TOURIST COVER, ABOUT

26 MAY TO CONDUCT DIRECTIONAL MIKE AND MOTION PICTURE TESTS

FROM LICALLA BASE, EQUIPMENT FOR TESIS ARRIVING VIA POUCH AND

NEXT IURADIO FLIGHT, DESIRES CHECK EQUIPMENT DURING 27 MAY AND

TEST AT LICALLA 28 MAY DUANG DAYLIGHT HOURS.

2 REQUEST THAI EITHER FRANCOTTE OR RESCIGNO PARTICIPATE

THESE TESTS IN PREPARATION

FOR POSSIBLE FUTURE SUPPORT THIS

ACTIVITY®

3. ALSO REQUEST MEETING WITH CURTIS TO DISCUSS PLANNING FOR

FUTURE KURIOT SUPPORT.

1. FIRM ETA MULFORD FOLLOWS.

END OF MESSAGE

ISD COMMENT: Information re MULFORD's forthcoming IDY to MEXI.

WH/! - Mr. Spera

x:4506, by phone

SEYMOUR RUSSEL

C/TSD

BELKAAIN® OFFIGER

COORRINATINE OFFICE

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSÜING OFFICE IS PROMIBITED

OBFICER

Copy No

---

## Page 17

Inero.

DISPAICH

19: 1=:

CLASSIONAINN

'estindir

Sato e me

RE DIONE DACAURRO - ARIERENCES

Aso Miale do Mandço Ciey 19-29 Marosi 1905.

uuura socoopanied by Jrooph M. incIO mio one ntuit etno viale to

tho preo di por dia parono de curvostre de mia eba tarsot.

martto tho aboanse

Trally prailial necono lo the lamat 1irele Cor Mille jurgress.

A: the gradent

tige ho parlalletos nn los annuale, fre the aranapolit of se Installation

do not miro fr.a9

(1)

Wie occuprata

dio preminen mirrile, to noe gium sutran: (2) Chare lo 11ttl

lugale reste will the resiisaio ail sot vich tha lasten nuchortiles. Hoveror, a

0. 99358.1:

lines mail, word Preen leerae

mil dne erlata bobremi tuo il Farneo soul cre of cha li Carrol roma shiai

rapisa lentaiseme artas montatanes wen gian are flam,

mo itatlon hua io ruthor pians soncoming the nullo posalullitloo undess

alierair laforstion la fortheraire Iran leatgunrter

118tr1-191

1 - C/CRIT

CHOSS REFERENCE

DISPAICA SYMCOL AND PUMALE

808-25152

CLETINCAINA

DATE

& Appll 15055

POS MLI SEUMENA

---

## Page 18

14-00000

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

Fair armer dAD to aren

•5. The BURs sallo dorico one saliafartarily bruted md sucerquentir

installabina orelease or dso Marcho No Merther autiesty le plate cor the

LALMARRO

Gourds lie toi, chatta wirked very ortonoirely with all offloore Lowlved

the counteal cincrector of the midto lentes in Dallas ant mubsequen ly sanged

LILATE.

ONATER dinouncel WIll MINCID the tochnini upecte of plarine a tree

mittor la n taleuone usel ly the PRUMDI Litallation li AndriM Po lETNNO OIL

mo sagnetiva lo co pogi it loversation lar cur stuiration, ll a gullatle dorico

lu rallu la) trother the celephone le op 08 off the nok.

1e italion 1o ou aniele the unival or the altarol taleihono apparatua

nwarded to Hoedquartem by marli.

FRILALE

?.

In MaTy, bretlor belleras that Burnna MN to lordeo city ves

accentlourity pr fleario

il te stangle of boy TOMBARE

militains in amoral olier sution adlo actiritlos lot conticed at the itation.

355 Niablo to expros. hia approciatine to TURIOT for iTs slicensful vialt,

WIllArd Co CURTIS

5-467

153e

VER PREVIOUS KOTICiA

SECRET

FACE Nu

---

## Page 19

TO

HARO

FROM

ACTION TROUBAD

PUT MACHE

DISPATCH

SECECT

Chief,

Chief,

Na Division

KU TUNK D

Chief

• SR Division

пої —о

Chief of Station, Mexico CIty

Soviet Rabany Cipher Clerte

Stanfolay SHILNIKOV

' None

HOSA-14979

THE A DUATTA PIE NO

50-8-10

201-271109 (P-6414)

DATE

4] J

" MACHIO FOR IRONING

NO INDERING MISUIMO

INDIANO CAN ER NOGIC

BY QUALPIC NO. DESA ONLY

HYA -14489

1.

In reference dispatch thn Medco Station sugrested eir persona

asslined to the Soviet Embassy who were male clorke working full time

Inaide the Chancory sho could also be cipher clerke.

One of these

pertons was Alekeandr Ivanovich TRUKHACHEV (201-183352 - P-941)•

7 April 1960 Stanislay SHILNIKOV arrived in Medeo City and accerling

to LICALLA replacod TRIKHACHEV who returnod to the lISS? on 16 April 1960.

LICALla had boen briefod by hio KUPARK Case Orficer to be alert and

to watch for any Soviet in the Chancery area who might be carrying copies

On 5 May 1960 IICALLA photographed Standalav StILNINOV

aigning: receipt for two telegrana from Ivan Aloksantrovich KONCVALOV (201-

202416 - P-3093) who 1a a full tire guard and gate keoper.

3.

SITINIKOV 1a assumod to be ons of the cipher cierio:

En closed

is a copy of tho photograph of SHILNIKOY and KCliOVALOV but this phetograph

1B not to be used outside KBARk or show to other than KUBARY stall

employ cos sinco the photorrach vas takon from a sensitive clandastine

base.: The Medico Station has no public photographe of SHILNIKOV at the

present time He has not left the compound of the Soviet Imbasey during

daytime houre.

Ho was not photograrted on arrival, by LIFIR.

The Station

hopes, horever, to obtain public photographs in the near futire which can

be shown to other then KUlAiX personnel.

Willard G. Ourtl:

3=CWH Dir w/att

1-SR Div w/att

1-C KUTUBE D w/att

icalla

50-5-10

---

## Page 20

DISPATCH

Chief, WH Division

CLASSiPIC

SECRET

PROCESSING ACTION

MANTED FOR INDEXING

NO INDeXINO MQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIRD DESE

CAN JUDGE INGRAINO

MICROFILM

Chief of Station, Mexico Cuy

Operational/ Survey of LICALLA

References:

A.

DIR- 9:4105

B.

MEX1-2592

C. HMMA 25155. 13 January 1965

D. HMMA 25275. 28 January 1965

• 6.4

$ (118

1.

Reference B provided a reply to the Headquarters querles made in

reference A. Forwarded herewith are the photographs and sketches made

by Dudley R. GNASTER in his survey of LICALLA.

2: Although the audio assist possibility for the lip reading operation

basically negative. the Station defers to Headquarters on whether an

attempt should be made to plant sensitive probe type microphones in the

wall adjacent to the LICALLA property. Discussion with GNASTER at

Headquarters will undoubredly assist in making this decision.

Whatever decision is reached on the Issue above, the Station re-

commends that Headquarters pursue the requests made in reference C and

D, namely those of acquiring an improved motion picture camera and of

sending the lip reader to Mexico for on the spot experimentation.

4. In a following dispatch, the Station will report on the extent of

growth of lvy along the entire wal area from mesA units ll throughly,

and on Station considerations to overcome this potchtial sight hazard.

Is follering action 13

Attachments:

as stated above

merined: Genetite

Risi

Willard C. Curtis

Distribution:

2 WHD w/art h/w (l copy)

1 SRD w/att h/w (l copy)

I KURIOT w/att h/# (l copy)

ragonay aud coordinate

¡i aparopriato.

CROSS REFERENCE TO

DISPATCH SVAABOL AND NUMBER

HMMA - 25679

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET/

DATE

2Z

26 March 1965

MOS FILE NURABER

FFN: 50-6-74/3

---

## Page 21

PACKENINO ACTION

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICA!"

secreta

MARITO PO INDEXINO

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

ONIY QUALIFiED DESK

CAN JUICE INDEXINO

No: Chilet SR Divlsion : Chief KUROT

Chief of Station. Mexico Cly

Operatlomal/ Survey of LICALLA

ACTION REQUIRED • REFERENCES

References: A: Old- 94105

D: MEXI-2892

C. HMMA 25155 13 January 1965

D. HMMA 25275. 25 January 1965

Reference B provided a reply to the Headquarters querles made in

referunce A.

Forwarded herewith are the photographs and skerches made

by Dudley R. GNASTER in ht survey of LICAL-LA.

2. Although the audlo assist puss bility for the lip reading operacion

• Is basically negative. the Station defers to Hendquarters on whether an

attempi should be made co pian senstite piobe type microphones in the

wall adjacent to the LiCALLy property. Discussion with GNASTER at

Headquarters will undoubtedly assist la making this decision,

3. Whatever decision Is reached on the Issue above, the Station re-

commends that Headquarters pursue the requests made in reference C and

D. namely those of acquiring an improved motion picture camera and of

sending the lip reader to Mexico for on the spot experimentation.

In a following dispatch, the Station will report on the astent of

growch of lvy along the entire wall area from LIMESA units ll through 17;

and on Statlon considerations to overcome this potentlal sight hazard.

DS OFFICER SIAMP

The follering

netlon

1s

authoriod:

Attachments:

as stated above

Willard C. Curtle

Sizer.

Distribution:

2 WHD w/ait h/w (1 cops) br

1 SRD w/att h/w(l copy.

I KURIOT w/att b/ (1 tripy)

CROSS REFERENCE TO

SE/X/LA

dirtitiod;

=1l9

reisor. as cooruinato

is appropriate.

DISPATCH SUMSOL AND NUMBER

DATE

HMiko - 25073

CLASSIFICATION

SECKET/S

26 March 1965

HOS FILE NUMBER

FEN: 50-6-74!3

---

## Page 22

ATT.ATO

HMMA - 25659

26 MAR. 65

To: CHIEF, SR DIVISION

FROM: COS, MENCOCITY

---

## Page 23

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 24

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 25

iansined

MUCECUEFDWR

---

## Page 26

€ 1

---

## Page 27

mi di

---

## Page 28

i top:.

---

## Page 29

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 30

104)

---

## Page 31

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 32

13: 01 cl al

siae

mgo.gtyt parg

---

## Page 33

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 34

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 35

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 36

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 37

14-00000

1.11.

---

## Page 38

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 39

14-00000

---

## Page 40

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 41

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 42

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 43

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 44

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 45

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 46

1.F2

---

## Page 47

14-00600

---

## Page 48

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 49

TARGET

# 13

5154°

+ 54j°%

PATIO AT

GROUND LEVEL

stil

028.

116%.

DOOR

4605"-

12)

LICALLA HUT

ROOF

ToP

#17

---

## Page 50

14.00000

22-97

W0AhD

42°°

42÷"

-_ CA70"

124"

LICALLA

HuT WisL

TOWARD

TARGET

---

## Page 51

14-00000

DISPATCH

H9-6958

5048-25/3.

PÜd

IN + T CH

MARK PO FOR DORITANC

DDINO CAN HI NOON

See balow:

29A-11357

NOLA (S7-175) LETTUC (506-25/8) and LAMESO (50-6125/9)

ferrel PiTO Project have bren transferred do Profoct Lopert

Does die dEtor visi so have Co LISPTi Pioject (50-6-76) broten dom with

secares flies fus sadi do liesa uporetaao? Il du, plodde eo advice

¿. Unless advised to the contrury by lia Station, Cho IIDHADIO: (50-6-2516)

anitali (0-5-211:) iperacional Siles stil be rotined with the LIPSTICK

11193 pinio these tuo assets aro no longer in use.

• OLTYER O, CALFONI

20 00:t0ba5 2996

---

## Page 52

Abstract Tron INPA 607h, 6 Feb 57 ros LIPSTICK Monthly Beport - Net. 1956

1• Operational

unknown, have been revealed by this photographis coverse. a great hind

erance has beon modbubagcheds the collage on the trees in the LiStiCk

compound thich has obscured nots attampts to photograph subjects in the

garden.

Thie situation lipo-ves each day with the adrent of colder

woacher. Thu

photos talen from this base facing directly tousri the

rear of the LIMERICK bld, leads the Station to beliare that se may be

ablo to observe directly into the Limerick reading roon.

---

## Page 53

VLA

DISPATCH NO MAN A300

gek

Chief, un

FROM

Cator or station, Matco 2'4

(GENERAL Operational

SUBJECT

SPECIFIC BasebOwsea surrounding LINRICK Target

REF:

DIR 49977

DATE _ 12 March 1956

There is transmitted by caparate cover three photographs of the

LTERICK Installation In Noxico C1tj.

The house marked "a" in Picture

#l was authorizod to be rented by reference but sinco it was vacated on

26 February. 1956 under a pre-existing agreement with the oner for a new

tanant to assume occupancy on 22 February, we wera unable to accompliaha

the rontal.

20.

The house described in para. 1 of this dispatch;

bo

LDERICK target installation and grounds;

The LIPSTICK/LIDOHINO base walch is no longer rented by this

Station. "It had previously been used for the RAPPER operation

but did not offer any. other operational uses.

d.

The LIPSTICK/LIGILA base;

The LIPSTICK/LILYRIC base;

The LIPSTICK/LIMITED base.

DESENSITIZED

3.

Picture 112 1s salf-explanatory.

copies of picturen # and #2 submitted; one with pencilled notations and

the other without marks so that the areas of interest can be clearly seen.

Ploture #3 was taken fron the top of the LIPSTICK/ LIDMINO bullding when 1t

was under construction in May 1994 and shows the tront of urarick target.

Ccsa8s18sca8ten8 56-6-715

Folds,

Attachments: Photographs UNDER SEPARATE COVER

Distribution:

3. - wash(w/atts

2 - Flos(no attsk59PT7

FORM NO. 51-28

JUN 1949

50-60-74/7

---

## Page 54

PL-

---

## Page 55

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 56

LI''STICK

Cherons

---

## Page 57

KDFACTOR

_S-S-C-7-E-Ta

A DE DATE DE CAPTORYN CHANGE - 2010RIT:

SALUTERAI

FERMER CRYPTONYS - LIEVpTY

LICALLA

CRYPTONY" CHANGE AUTHORIZED RY - ARMSTRONG

COMPONENT -

RIS/AN

IRO OK RID SECTION CHIEFI

CASLE OR DOCUMENT REFERENCE FROM ITEM 1O OE COSM 812) - MMMS-7133

N-0-T -7-C-E

THIS IS AN RIO VOTICE OF A CHANGE IN FILE

TITLE CRYPTONY" CAUSED BY COMPROMISE. IT

IS TO BE PLACEO IN THS FILE iNDICATED AND

TO REMAIN THEREIN AS A PERCANENT OFFICIAL

CS PECORD.

S-=-6-9-5-7

FILEIN

050-005-074707

---

## Page 58

SECRET

roses to tied hid

CASE TUE REQUEST

TO BI/ANALYSIS SECTION

COMPONENT

WH

Charlotte Zehnns

BUiLDING

Ber ton

OATH

17 Deo 58

#OOM NO

2120

ACTION BEQUESTIO

TELEPMON!

:2753

IS CASH TITLI

LINTY/LICALLA

OPEN FILE

AS INDICATED.

AMEND FPLE:

AS INDICATED

COUNTRY AND NUMBER

Maxieo

• 50

I CATEGORY AND NUMBER

Dierat imal 6-147

CLOSE FILE

RESTRiCT FILE

TO (DESK. INITI/Mexico

PERMANENT CHARGEOUT

TO 10850. 1E/1II/Maxies

PREPARE FILE FOLCERS

AND SEND TU REQUESTER

&. COMMENTS: (inchedo

totion el tile de prajece)

teahnical bagchense

LICALIA used to. fall under the LIPSTICK Project and used to

have RI file number 50-6-2515

COP

FOR RI USE ONLY

MEXI

COR

ENDORSEMENT

THIS REQUEST SATISFIES RECORDS REQUIREMENTS.

REQUEST APPROVED

APPROVAL

POR CHIEF, & 1

&I CASE TITLE NUMBER

74/7

EFFECTIVE DATE

DEC.

88

°910.01955

g9A POSTIOUS

812

N.3.

SECRET

(11)

---

## Page 59

SECRET

CASE FILE REQUEST

TRI/ANALYSIS SECTION

0a25 June 1957

2121 barton

CABE: TITLE

TALEPHONE

2555

Preject LIPSTICK/LICALIA

AND CAtEGORY

50

99711

(Includo briel descrie

Son of life o8 projes)

Physienl survillance 20 Operating Base from house adjacent to the

Soviot Embassy Backyard

Cr1e1nal of docurents entitled LIPSTICK/LICALLA to be placed in

50-4-25/3, with ce for 50-6-25/5

9.

FOR AI USE ONLY

no folders

gement chest ex

ANDORBEMENT

SATISFIES

THE RECORDS REQUIREMEATS OF CLAN.

REQUEST APPROVED

APPROVAL

SIGNATURE HIJANALTSLA

SIGNEO (For Chief.

EFFECTIVE DATE

3

• Bian Mitte

* AUG $0

812

JUL 1957

RI COPY

SECRET

50.

25/5

(381

---

