# 104-10165-10000

## Page 1

104-10165-10000

incl

18 Septeaber 1961

HEXORANDUM FOR:

A/DDP/A

SUBJECT

Mr. Leo Cheme end his Isplied Offer to

Construct a solid Anti Castro Revolutionary

Front sithin Finety Days

1o This nemorandus la provided the A/DDP/A for bis infor

mutton.

2.

Reference is nade to 15.. Carey's memorandus of 23 August

(Attachment A) which repurts on & recent seeting of Mr.. Cherne

and the New York representative of 00 Contact Division, during

which MI. Cherne stated that be felt certain that within a perlod

of sinety days he could construct a solid revolutionary front out

...of: the several Cuban exile groups and novenents. Additionally,

be indicated a former vorking relationship uith the Agency and

specifically with MI. ludy Gover, foruer seputy Chieï, Western

Sentsphere Division, the DCI, and "the ID/P people".

The Contect

Pulsion representatives believe that even though Mr. Cherne's

• renarks concerning the unification of Cuban exile elenants were

probably Irtended to provoice a reaction, de has, no doubt, given

the matter considerable thought and he may approach the Deputy

Director (Plens) of the DCI in the near future regarding this

mattor®

3. Arallable Information Indicates that Mi. Cheme 18

reputed to be an outstanding Aperican liberal. As Executive

Secretary of the Research Institute of Asarica, Malyst and Cou

pentator for Mutual Broadcasting and forner Chalran of the

International Rescue Comittee, he has considerable stature and

reputation for expertness in a nunber of fields.. These fields

Include govermental, social and econonic reform, tax legislat100,

and refugee problens. After World Har II be revised the Japanese

tax and fiscal structura and subsequently he vorted on political

and economie problens involved in the Industrial development of

merto Rico, wast Berlin and south Vietna He 18 & strong sovo

nta of the use of tax logislacion as a sojor luntrunt in la!

bringing about econoale and social change..

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Onl

Do Nol Reproduce

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SEBRET

•2.

Ao In the spring of 1959, MI. Chare uns granted a POA

perposes.. Alchough a contract for his services had been de

up, fE was nevir executed. In early 1959, MI. Share pre-lded

beckground lafornation on a number of proadscat Cuben politteal

figures and at one point he offered to act an en intermediary

offer vas not eccepted.

sation batween HI, Cherniend lir. Radolph I. Gones, the Deputy

Chief of Western Hemlopbere Division, concerning thie natter.

MI. Cherne's POs explied in ApIll 1960, but could ba relocated

since his security investigation mas completad in late 1959.

5. In regard to Mir. Cherne's statement that he was 1n

contect uith several Cuben ex la leaders, Attachment C 1a a

reporT of MI. Cherra's Deeting with Raul CHIBAS, ER fOrDel

dEputY Of HASOLO RAY, the lesder of tie K3? group.

Investigation and arudy of the possible utilization of

Mr. Cherne sod/or stallat persons will be continued.

the pre

Vous associatie between iT. Cherne and the Westerh lemlepber

Dataion mas, howaver,

sufficient to indicate it wonld not bu

dest:solo: to Cy to 0t111se hla as the principal advisor of the:

cindlat groups in the Doulnican Republic of elseshare in tha

Pestern Eentsprere:

15/ J. C. Kied

J. C. KINC

Chief,

Western Bentsphere Divleton

Attachnents: 3

03

abb (18 Sep 61)

Distribution:

Orig. & 1 - Addresses /atts.

1 = C/WHD wo/atts.

1 - C/Wa/4. no/atts.

1

- WH/4/PA-PROP No/att

WH/4/DR wie/att

1

- NH/4/PLERS mi/art

SECRET

---

