104-10051-10197|

- veunsi % 7
mae (wien mice inj | 4 ips ahs
1 JUTING. AND RECORD SHEET

NOTE: In the absence of comments or indication of action
token, this cover shoot will be destroyed when the
document is filed.

COMMENTS
if
a "Nor cavep romance nace
a.
we /, ier7 4 MICROFILMED | :
* AUG2 T1989 «F
DOG. MICRO. SER. }
* ed
oe! ue. pA, | IP. | q-s:
- 81 What ele do we lave 0 Gola
c/oe=1 2 | FOF | ofa Yuan fore 46/3 £5 Cate
Ls [Who D bewe Oto. Leta distusa-
NG x {/
= (ai i ] BE Peet SN ‘

Riser

1400L

“COLUA

ENCLOSURE

AgsTRACT
INDEX

x 20(— [5/8

Bb Lriges a Kn. , :

DATE MIGROFILMEO

DOCUMENT DATE SOCUMENT NUMBER

JOFHA-03982

FORM gigq USE PREVIOUS

ary

EDITIONS

7

{2 Lady 1454
SEGRET f°



14-00000

. on

OFHA-3982

Mat
201-1501 CROFILME!

Ohief of Statdon,| ws

RE, "Ga" — (CHECK *X" ONE)
X_|_MARKED FOR INDEXING.

BSS. MicRo. sda, |

Grigoriy Ye. GOLIRH NO INDEXING REQUIRED

INDEXING CAN BE JUDGED

le

the

BY QUAUFIED HO, DESK ONLY
rare, TE OSSR, STebeved Gt Sones
OFHA~596L Embosst, telbrag ve

On 26 June Gostille invited Golub to have lunch
Restaurant in Helsinki, as it was Costille’s t

at the Savoy
pay the bill. Golub’s

first remarks concerned the amount of he jo do in the Consulate,
as he was alone there now since Mikha Golub
stated that Lyubimov hi ed the 8 of Secre-
tary_and was currently in Moscow for some training prior to a RS: assigment

somewhere besid 8 probably either Lon St :
stated that he missed Lyubimov tremendously both office-wise and personally.
He was very fond of Lyubimov and often remarked what an intelligent young
man he wase

The conversation then turned to Costille’s recent vacation in Lapland.
Golub again told Costilie that he was not going to be able to take a
vacation this year as the nev Arbassador wanted Lim to remain in Helsinki.
Golub then stated to Gostille, "I have heard that you speek fluent Russian.”
Costille stated that thet was very complimentary but that he spoke about

as good Russian as Golub spoke English. Costille told him that he had
studied Russian at the University of California and on his own but that
about all he could do now was understend end read sone and that what little
speaking ability he had was practically gone. Golub commented it was

good that Costille knew some Russian end said that more Americans should
study it. Golub then asked why Costille was not trying to improve his
Russian. Costille answered that he was trying to learn to speak Finnish
and that 4 was too mich of a chore to study two languages at the seme time.
Golub said that what Costille meeied was more practice in Russian and pro-
ceeded to speak in Russian, In actuality Costille’s Russian hes decreased
considerably and he was able to easily convince Golub that his Russian was
far from fluent. As was mentioned in previous dispatches, Costille had
never attempted to conceal from Golub the fact that he knew Russian. The
dasue just never came up. Since Golub is fluent in Finnish, the conmon
language automatically became Finnish. If we hed realized this Golub
contact was going to be so frequent, we would have made it a point at the
first to be the one to tell Golub that Costille knows some Russian, Tale
might have made Golub a little suspicions. At the last meeting Costille
had mentioned to Golub that he had been studying Russien some, Golub

did not respond, so evidently he either did not hear or understand Costille,

Golub asked Costille what other languages he hed studied. Costille told
him he had studied Spanish in high school, Golub said that this was on
easy lenguage and not studied too mich in the Soviet Union. After making
this remark, he quickly corrected himself and stated thet a large percentage
of the world spoke Spanish end that it was becoming a mich more populer
language in the Soviet Union. Gostille mentioned thet Russian had become
a very populer language in the States and that within the last two years
his high echool in California, which was quite small, even vas offering the
Russien lenguage, This seemed to impress Golub.

ih ess2
bile speaking Rusasien to Costille, Golub began using the familiar form of
the language rather than the polite form which the two had always used. He
looked at Costille and asked if 1t would bd alright to use first names.
When Costille agreed, he reached across thh table and shook Costille’s
hand, He then told Costille that there wis a naw Cultural Officer in the
Soviet Eubasay by the name of who wanted to meet some young
Western Enbass} officers, especially Americans, Golub stated thet he hed
givon him Gosti\le’s name and that Costille would be receiving a written
invitation from Yegel to attend a showing at the Soviet Embassy of a

Helsin ky finland

rom
105753,
way

{USE PREVIOUS EDITION. ‘CASSIICATION

ieriAces FORMS
‘ae, S1:20A AND 51.29
WnicH ARE OBSOUTE,

Schwey

/ oun "i 5

i Bes ud

Seis, Ce
“piSPATCH | Sitar

7 HEADQUARTERS FE NO.
"OO Ghief, WE



Deo th 58 ( ; : :

CONTINUATION OF

Sa TESTA NS.
DISPATCH GFRA-3982

Soviet: ballet film followed by a reception on 6 July. Costille said that he
was free that evening and would like to attend end meet Zegal.

5, Golub also mentioned that his wife was going back to the Soviet Union for a
‘two months rest and vacation and thet he wes going to be a bachelor agein for
that period. He stated that he was glad to get rid of her for a while becruse
she "bothered" him and that now he could bring home whom he wanted and do what
he wanted. He stated that since Costille end he were both bachelors they
could "have some good times together".

6. Just before the two parted after lunch Golub stated that he had heard from
Moscow about his report of what he termed "the Volodya incident". (See
OFHA-3819). He said that Volodya had benn called in end properly chastized.
When Costille asked Golub what would happen to Volodya, Golub responded that
he didn’t know. Golub also stated thet Moscow asked him how Costille was
able to deduce that his room was being searched at that particular time.
Costille stated that it didn’t take an amateur detective to figure that out.
Golub laughed and agreed.

:..Please-sée-reference A concerning the AEPAWNEE/S and AEPAWNEE/3 contact with
Golub.

8. The above portions of this dispatch were written on1 July. It is now 7 July,
and the reception mentioned in para four above never cams off. When first
inviting Costille to this reception, Golub made it quite certain that Costille
was free for the 7th and made him promise to come. On Thursday, 2 July,

Golub called Costille again to make sure he had not forgotten the date.
Costille told him that as yet he had not received the official invitation
from Zegal. Golub stated that he would receive it shortly. By Monday, the
day of the reception, still no invitation had been received. At 1600 Gostille
decided to phone Golub to find out what had happened. Golub informed hin
then that the reception had been postponed until the Soviet Aubassador, who

is presently touring Finlend, returned to Helsinki. Golub apologized for

not telling Costille earlier and invited Costiile for lunch the next day,
7 June.

9. Lunch with Golub has just been completed. He was more jovial. than we have
ever seen him, He admitted that he had been up all evening drinking with a
good friend and hadn”t fully sobered up yet. His first move at lunch was
to order vodka end beer. He egain apologized for the mix-up on the reception
invitations but said that his Ambassador didn’t arrive back in Helsinki in
time, He promised to send Costille an invitation as soon as the date hed
been confirmed. The lunch was spent mostly in polite, friendly conversation,
Golub remarked that now Moscow had given him the authority to give Americans
visas without prior approval from Moscow. He stated that this would make
his job much easier, and as long as he was convinced the American was "all
right" he could give him his visa in a matter of minutes, When Costille
mentioned thet he had a personal friend coming to Helsinki for a visit in
October, Golub stated that Gostille should insist che see Leningrad and that

if Costille would bring her to the Soviet Embassy, he would give her a visa
at once.

20. Golub then asked Costille to explain the "Janes Dean" problem and the negro
-problem in America to him, Golub stated that he personally did not like
negroes and admitted that the Soviet Union also had a juvenile delinquency
problem ("stilyagi"). Golub mentioned that Khrushchev was coming to Finland
soon vhich always meant a lot of work for the Embassy, He then proceeded
to talk about what a great, intelligent, but practical man Khrushchev was.

Golub also made some derogatory remarks about his wife, and how glad he was
“that she had gone to Moscow, Returning from lunch, Golub insisted that
Costille stop by his apartment to hear some of his Russian records and have
a glass of cognac, As they walked through the door, Golub, at the top of
\his voice, in Russian yelled, "Is there any one home?’ It is so nice not to
\have anyone answer." Golub is extremely proud of his record collection
\vaich is small but includes some Chalispin, Tchaikovsky and Prokoviev records,
The apartment 1s quite large with many rooms, but all are quite sparsely
furnished, One or two rooms aren’t furnished at ell. He has a small West

Foun
ws'S80
40)

Renaces Fe
S518, 31.208 AND 51.29
WHICH ARE OBSOLETE

[eons

ere STARS |
ORNS



il ee va

a i

See Sinton — —~— fiovicm
| DISPATCH ao wed OFHA-3982
German record player and a Soviet TV set in the living room. They spent
ebout en hour in his apartment, und Costille mentioned that he would have
to be leaving to go back to work. Golub promised to phone Costille soon.
PS
William L. Costille
Distribution:
2-ME
2-SR

a

Sol - Is0lst

FORM ust PREVIOUS EDITION. CUSSICATION, [PAGE NO.
‘09 530 Siam S20 oo 5.29 — 3.
Wwicn ate OnsoUeTE _

