3-68

ORM 15058

t



: ae jaa tats ’ CCAS
130 es/onse foe CLASSIFIED MESSASE_
nee

G2 JAN 59 séicke tT.

DIRECTOR

KY Dine teseek one?

SefROM HAVANA __ NO CS Hever’ Value. Destroy,
Moe very wintion’ =
jy, AHO WHS asics tel eee
iro + DCI, 0/0C1, CoP, afoo/e/P, ¥IS“Fi/ors, FI/ROK' Fo. PRIORITY
B PP 2, PP/PRD, PP/PYD 2, S/C°2"* T 4
IN 43348 0 5
oe IR _ MEXI SACU CHE HAVA 879677 |
AMUTTER

PEM 1389 “Esme

=

Oo 1
STATION TAKING ADVANTAGE OPPORTUNITY SEND NCEMAYR ON PLANE

CHARTERED BY BOHEMIA ANG TIME MAG. TO CARRY JAY MALLIN AND
CARLOS CASTANEDA TO SACU TO INTERVIEW FIDEL CASTRO AND POSSIBLY

ACCOMPANY CASTRO PARTY WHEN IT COMES TO,.HAY ANA, PLANE ETD .

HAVA 262% JAN 2. %
: END OF MESSAGE

)
ta &

Ror- (16S FGl3
~ am),

3

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED, Cony Me.



“to) ext
ET _BI JAN 59
10 DIRECTOR
reom + SANTIAGO DE CUBA

action: WH 6

ne
iro: Ct, C1/0PS, CI/OA, FI, F1/0PS,

‘s/c

Sigeatare

"sae wasnt PY ROUTINE
Rae

IN 13223

pecioiiaiaes al ee Senta cau
«TIS TPRTTY HAVA ines DIR Gi SACU317
eee :

RE:_HAVA 9766 (IN hag71 )*

AFFIRMATIVE.

ENO OF MESSAGE

C/S COMMENT: *QUERIED IF SACU WAS IN POSITION TO ARRANGE VAIVADA ENTRY iNTO REBEL
TERRITORY AS IH PREVIOUS CASES. HGS WISHED TO SED HIM OW HISSTON SIMILAR TO THAT
TAKEN LAST MARCH. a

zor- 16s GF) 3

“rows 4399 CER : CONFIDENTIAL.
~ REPRODUCTION BY OTHeR THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED. Copy No.



1 fo ee 8 R pete
: eee 7 CLASSIFIER_MESSAGE_!
: jo4/iB/sse/P : paar

1 DATE + @t JAN 59 SETRET

FEET eset OLRECTOR

RE Fae (etek coer

; FROM +” HAVANA No CX tegerd Vite, Destrop 1
t "1 $730.1 J
+ ACTION: wa 6 head Div NOT IRIE NTS. in

INFO + s/c 2

IN 43216

ae OPIM SACU HO” PRITY MEX! PRITY DIR id HAVA $784.“

o>
VIEW STRONG RUMORS FIDEL CASTRO COMING HAVA, CANCELLING

NOEMAY DEPARTURE FOR SACU. aot
FOR HQS, MEXI: MEANTIME PLAN USE HIM LOCAL INTEL COLLECTION. if

RELEASED 9118582

END OF MSG

Teme 1399 MEE 2e1
"REPRODUCTION BY © THER THAN THE ISSUING’ OFFICE IS PROHIBITED. .-


DIRECTOR *
pseu 1 HAVANA — i

ro _ 6G ;

‘peo: B/C 2 :

A

210 PRITY MEXI info” DIR HAVA $798 27

oe ae
PLS ADVISE WIFE NOEMAYR HE SAFE AND NO NEED WORRY. HE
CONCERNED EXAGGERATED STORIES SUBMITTED BY WIRE SERVICES MAY

UNOULY UPSET HER.

END OF MESSAGE

a
f LA

Fo 1389 EESS

i
as a. pope tek PFI,
: REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFRICE IS PROHIBITED. Copy He.



i

BSH=TOZ

DISPATCH

TO) Chior of Station, Koxieo City ROTTS TT TS
- 201-32723
inant
- i.
OM Chief, KED ts tlt THF
wasce

af, OF — (eHtCR ONE)
PRED Foe DERG
RO NDEING FFQUIRED

Or wareza R, samere/

Carers

@ See below

INDELING CAN 8& JU0GED
BY QUALIFIED HQ. DESK ONLY

RCE

& February 1959

Distribetion:
3 = Mexico City
1 - nE/Mailroom
1 ~ GH/3/Mexico

(ks BI ‘
Wistert Loe

ps $3

\

|

i
I
I
“}

f



eee hor oii ral TAPE,

pare + 31 DEC 58

o> + DIRECTOR |

- ¥
HOM + HAVANA
ACTION: WH 6

TIO PRITY SACU co
py REt_DIR B6245 (OUT 57838) «

vO
1. SUBJECT REF ARRIVED HAVA EVENING 36 DEC.

CASTRO_TERRITORY ON MISSION SIMILAR TO reheat LAST MARCH.

1S SACU IN POSITION ARRANGE HIS ENTRY INTO REBEL TERRITORY AS IN
PREVIOUS CASES? IF NOT HAVA ines dba “CAN "ARRANGE THROUGH 26 JULY
CONTACTS HERE BUT PREFERS IT BE DONE infousn ESTABLISHED CHANNELS

av
SACU IF AT ALL POSSIBLE. _ >

sie 3. CABLE REPLY. PRIORITY. LA

END_OF MESSAGE

C/S COMMENT: *AOVISED NOEMAYR ENROUTE HAVA OMA FLT 565 ETA 30 DEC.

roan 1389 Lag Panvioce
5 “REPRODUCTION BY OTHER

IE ISSUING OFFICE IS" PROHBITED. Copy No.

2. FOR SACU: SUBJ IS) HQS WISHES SEND HIM TO FIDEL



ss

DISPATCH

. Ae

TPCT aE AD

IMM-7933

Gece

SECRUT/ABAR—— <3

90

70% Chick of Station, Moxico City

RDA FEE NS.

— 20132723

FROM
1 Chief, WHD

ins 4

ne S
~ Harold 8. NOEMAYR (ps)

ea) (CHECR “a ONE
Watt FOR INDEKING
X_|_ ne rotrine erouneD

Corry
= Reply reference.

(NDEFING CAN BE FUDGED.
Br QUALIFIED HQ. DE ONLY

aereTENCT,

M2S1-7790, 19 June 1959

3 August 1959

Distribution:
3 = Hoxico City
1 WH/Mextco/Rybat Chrono
Subject ‘

WH/TII/Mexico/E. I. SCALETTI:mpa

Please reply to referenced dispatch at your earliest convenience so

. WH Pivision can start making plans for Subject's, future assignnent.

"OLIVER G. GALEORD

rer

wercrsa 4-gea >



oe -
z aa - ~ r
Sea ate Dent toi RiOlAn _... italia

23 Dee. 79,.

HuMw-b430_. |. 10 June ST Dore FE
HMw 481 we hD Te SP enter FFG.
Poem mw 6¢¢? 0 ID Sea FE OE FEEL
DER D766 Ld July $F, ce BoE PEEL
LAMM Wn DIB a BB AG SK i INO E FTN
HAY AL Tee | a BL O82 SE.
MAAR Teg
HA VARGO Ot/ fo FEEL,
MA VA: 296 ales 16.8 PEL
SAL 2 BN Dd NG renee mn LONE MNC ELEN ner;

LIND Oe Beh St Oe aE
(6 FEE 8

Pere EFT I.

Per G ELE

Fem SF.

LS an. SF...

OT aed To.

ET eS eS

(4169... ce POMEL AED
Maan. (4463 SS Fab. be POO ELL
Loew: 8499 ne Feb bo PUG EEL

LH MMA = L420 RE Mon 60 SON TEL
Lie HMA ebr Apel Go 0 Dereter ren



my ae

ISPATCH | cccars

Chief of mos, JASE

Tune SANT Keene
Aévinistretive Fatters

ASTON RIQUHED NN WEES

ACTION REWIRED: Aw Indloated

RAFERNTCESs i) UCT-135, dtd 290ct60
(8) UyGT-150, ata 4hov6o

os a ate : — ~ fae
1. Pleane advise Fareld _ the hospital {sation

application forvardad vie feferexce (i) Lo bethg imocwesed, and the
affective date of coverage ts 27 Meverher 1960,

2. Please advice Charles K, PAFZiM that ho U, 3, Savings Boads
will bo retained in liecdouertars ponding his retwn, The Tayzoll Office
handling 7420u'e accounts bas determined that this is « core seaure
nethod of making eure he receives then in person, rether than ending
tho bonds in cere of tho purty indicated in references (3).

3. Fleas advice IGEN A thot eo a result of the Froflotonty Test
he tesk while assigned lemslly, ho obtainsd a Profieioney Seore of 87.
Ao the Iinivum Proficiency Zeore for everd of Profictenoy Pey io 94, be Lo
fot aligihie for the mord of froftetenay Pay.

ba Forvaricd-wsier, separate covar is ancthar envolopo containing
copies of Travel Ordere far perconnel currently assigned SMaSh ami DLIK.

Se Please advise Uliver H. CLiSUSTOU that the ansual preniun oa
Mag Specified Dicenses poliey in dus 30 Lovanbar 1950. The Yartly Plen for
this poltey fe (10.00. Inasemeh as 6 grace period of ons (1) ronth ig granted,
you nay atvise CORBUSTGN te suimit a check for the preadum exount to Hesdquarters
4S coon es ponetble,

BRD oP KESgeaR
a
eS
(8) /os ae Patek, wala

DISTRIBUTIORs
Orig. 4 2 = CoB, JHASH, u/encls. o/s

poe e-7

ORIGINATING.
= NAST

che Wi/A/rogiotry a COORDINATIL.
1 = Wi/4/Persomel corres sso. priaaeeeeneeiat geese
ee oesel |
|
.
| Dey-1eerrs
“RELEASING
creer ne ecccaceiictae
W/t/sup. | 25 Hov.! |
be ea gataarnactanaenatucscgnasesat .

i
{
i
i



aca
; h

j 3 syst compat wth ni
i
: Cee Dene 1997 oe
i * 36 Newmbes 1980 _. . 1
: ceagth ays az eat

doduation or by irect rent
eblablis ved by this arpanies:

All olber terre and conditions of dhe contract remal

arek oft



% FLILDS;

3 EB

WITH SOME EXPERIENCE AND

EL, MASH KUCASE SECTION COMPOSED GOJDEAUX
THEIR DUTIES is -ASIITION HANDLING KUCAGE.
SCLUDE LARGE VOLUME INTERVAL PAPERWORK AND ACCOUNTING, PLUS
THER MASH OPS RECUIRINS SPANISH LANSUAGE CaPASILITY.

show aca pkr2 60

18 41651

WITH INCREASING ACTIVITIES IN STUDENT
CONTINUATION AND PRIGRESS AWRASP PROPCOF ACTIVIST cs
DENT OPS SUCH AS AMHISE, AYPATA, TOO) NEWSLETTEY, CATA
*, CUSANA, PRESSA LIBRE, ETC: TRAINING, INFILT AND SUPPORT

CEA; " DEVELOPMENT PROP ACTIVITIES WITH NEW POLITICAL
Ge. ALIANZA, MRP PLUS ACTIVITIES IN LAWYER FIELD, SLACK

MOEA,

EST MOS CCNSIDER IMMEDIATE ASSIGNMENT MASH MINISUM ONE

ING KNOWLEDGE OF SPANISH,

T “AVE SUBSEQUENT NEED FOR SECOND JUNIOR CASE OFFICER,

2¢ CASE OFFICER REQUIREYENTS TO SE SUBJECT SEPARATE CABLE.

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN I.

ENO OF -c3SAG2 : ‘ e

‘12 hv. Go
Dees FT

ISSUING OFRCE 1S PROWLTED. Coor Pin |



Harold R. Noemayr (P)

TOOT
WE AW3 53-61
inVITATIONAL Anend ‘io. 1
SERVICE TRAVEL ORDER NO.
OHACE-FROWE

GHICIAL ATION

Washington, D.C,

Contract

‘OU AKE AUTHORIZED TO TRAVEL AND INCUR NECESSARY EXPENSES IN
OF OFFICIAL STATION, IF $0 DESIGNATED, IS MADE FOR OFFICIAL Pi

ACCORDANCE WITH REGLIATIONS. TIS TRAVEL GH
/RPOSES AND NOT FOK YOUR PERSONAL CONVENIENCE

THRERARY, RODE GF TEAVEC AND PURPOSE

Amended to authorize re:

ursenent

advantageous to the governments

Balance of order renains the Bare.

%.10 per nile for auto allowance as nore

TRAVEL DURATION. T

TERIOR DOWER

BHONOTE ANON DRE

co DOMESTIC

ToreiGn

RAIMI OMse (See below)

CENTS PER MT,
BS move

8.10 AavaNtaceous
B10 Beau aceon

A
ROWERS TSS HEAT OVEORS WOH AERTS

DEPENOENT TRAVEL AUTHORIZED ~]___PROCURE TRANSPORTATION BY

'ESTUMATED COST OF TRAVEL

NAME

[DATE O# BieTH]_eRATOnGuAD|

TRANSPORTATION REQUEST

‘CASH OF OTHER

‘DISPOSITION OF EFFECTS
AUTHORIZATION

Shipment |_| SOREaPORART

1 CERTIFY FUNDS ARE AVANABLE

SHIPMENT POA AUTHORIZED

OBIGATION REFEREE NO.

EXCESS BAGGAGE AUTHORIZED

FOUGW witnite 6 MONTHS

"ADVANCE RETURN

accu owOATT]

red

UNACCOMPANIED Wil An353-61
1S Aid woDE | CHARGE CET Cova WO.
bal Fuss 1535~5000-0021,
ACCOMPANY TRAVELER [=== ADVANCE OF FUNDS REQUESTED DATE

‘COORDINATION

REQUESHRIG OFFICIAL

TITLE & COMPONENT TED NAME AND TiTIE 7 COMPONENT
Willian K, Eisenmann C/ti/L/Support
oe
Ploy

AUTHORIZING OFFICIAL



Leyte sie tana ahitma econ ene

sth stare

TRAVEL ORDER WORK CET .

HEV TATION

: a wy aE one
RaSEnaT | eal .

3832

SRTCE Taal CASE

oe a, fea YA =>
mbh ela’ tS Nae ma apy _
We sh. | Veeder: hz

YOU ARE AUTHORIZED TO TRAVEL AND INCUR NECESSARY EXPENSES IN ACCORDANCE WITH REGULATIONS. THIS TRAVEL OR

CHANGE OP OFFICIAL STATION, IP SO DESIGNATED, 15 MADE FOR OFFICIAL PURPOSES AND NOT FOR YOUR FERS

INAL CONVENIENCE.

“ rT Ba L,
rrife Ear ek. ol®ksrsiw)

Q dan

TRAVEL EURATION Pen bit Lowa

cory ED boutstie Toaticn Norte tazetb
fast evsue
5 Ls a Ke) becgticics

ey vr TT (0% fe

ahve. LS qe

RADWARCES TRO SPECIAL PROVISIONS WITH REASONS

PESCURE TRANEPORTATION 6
imam Pontarion PEQUEST
AS OF OTHER

‘DISPOSITION OF EFFECTS
AUTHORIZATION

sane | STEP

Z BORER TRAVEL AUTHORED

Cry DATE OF GieTw [RELATIONSHIP

[SHiPWENT Ox AUTHORIZED
TaEKSE GAGEAGE AUTHORIZED
eto anied ‘VARCCOMPANED

STATI

ESTIMATED COST OF THAW,

CERTIFY FuRDS ARE AVARAELE

COTE WS

TES AD BOGE TES aD MODE

cau TREE Teaanck oF Fos wea TOT OTST OER
Tec win & WERE ie RECOUNTING UE BATE
Bovine RET i 1 a
COQHDINATION. REQUESTING OFFICIAL
Tani Tne 4 Ccaonent | ant | EE ST RT
3 wa
Btov 3

AUTHORIZING OFFICE

HED WE BRD TIE

TATE



SECRET

PERFORMANCE REPORT
FOR CONTRACT PERSONNEL

10 + FD/CeTaB/SAAS
TwRoucH: = WH/BLF ae
Frou; WH/3/Hoxico

TNDIVIDUAL (Peeudenyad T [ienoseer PERIOD

Harold R, NOEMAYR LIEDOE 30 Cet. ~ 27 Nov. 1960
Padilsbneedaibad

SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS REGARDING HET ROG OF PT

Deposit to bank account
en file in Finencs Division

i

FACTORS APFECTING AMOUNT DUE

LEAVE TAKEN DURING PERIOD {Il contract provides Teave EATATEBERT

CERTIFICATION

AGERTIFY THAY FoR THE PERIOD INDICATED THIS INDIVIDUAL HAS PERFORMED I
AECORDANCE WITH THE TERMS OF MIS CONTRACT AND IS ENTITCED TO PATENT.

SONATURE OF AL TORITED OFFICIAL

Tan" 433 use paevious eorrion,



gowns

Chief, wHD

CASSICATION

BE CR ET

DSPATGn SYED AND NO.

UFGT 135

WEADGUATTERS ALE NO.

Chief of Ease, “pa ASH one got 2.9 1369

_-JMNET/Adnin/WSLUGGAGE

OT Ha OS
WARKED FOR INDOING.
NO NDEING REQURED

chon weGUaED

Hospitalization Insurance, Harold R.
oS YH.

——

INDEXING CAN BE RIOGED
BY QUAURED HO. DESC OnLy”

aereeenices

rom
ros 53
re

UFGS-66

. tion\on Harold R, NOEMAYR,

premiumsfor this insurance be
—

from his salary.

subject's policy runber and tlie effective date of the

coverage.

Attachzent: Hospitalization Appl, ASA

27 Octoder 1960

Distribution: y;
3 - Headquarters w/att w ‘ye
2- Files w/o att. ue 7

USE FRENOLS EDITION,
FERLACE: Fokus.

S178, SHIA AND S129
Wnitn are oSCUETE

Attached herew

‘ne would appreciate being advised of

8 the hospitalization applica-
Sugject requests that

utomatically deducted

Sel 658 Tt
UFGT 135

CLASSICATION pact NO.

SECR Eo Deore



reer

SECRET.

ACN REQURED - RODS

1. It is requested that the attached application for Health Insurance be
given to Exrold R. NQSHAYR for completion. HOFMAYR ms; retain the
manorandaa which outlines his coverage. The completed forms. should be returned
to Hoadquertars for processing, The premiums will be dedicted froa HOGIAYR's
salary, Headquarters will notify HOEMAYR when his policy is in effect.

2. Please explain to HOEMAYR that this plan covers basically tuo types
of hselth insurance. 1: the norm. hospitalisation explained in veragraph 3
of the attachment wnieh inoludss in- and out-patient care, surgery and mteraity,
The allowable expenses covered under thio section are immediately reimburauble ~
within the limite of the plan, 2: the major medical bensfit plan described in

nh kh covers miscellaneous medical expenses not normlly comected vith

hospitalization such as doctors! office visits, doctors’ hone visits, prescrip=
tions, injections and medications given by doctors, E-raya and cther laboratory
Work dona in connection with diagnosis or treatment, ete. The insured pays up
to $100 of such elliowable expenses under this category for cach mevber of hig
‘ “£ expenses exceed this $100 for any person during the calendar year,
then the policy will pay for 60% of their additional expenses. In connection
with phase of th: plan, it is suggasted that HOBUYR be advised to have
ids fanily keep a detailed resomi of sil medical capsnses incurred by cach
of ths femily.

3. HOZMAYR should be adrised that under the hospitalisation section of

_ the plan, up to $75.00 can be reinbursed for surgical feas in comection with

@ tonsillectomy, whether the tonsilectomy is performed in a hospital or in the
surgeon's officer.

i

[

EXD OF DISPATCH
Distributions . DATE TYPED CATE DISPATCHED
3- use oct. isso | 22 ocT 1960
[GOS Ratna OPATEH STATOR AND MLR
wats
: vesogusero rs moa
enema :

oRiaINaTING

eo Save eer
Lee tify Pegistry OMnce sya. are OFPCERS nase
WAIS Or earcmmmpe yf!
t im . (
Do}-/65 il

i



fan) :

~ OFFICIAL DISPATCH aia ear

DISPATCH NO. ___ XG %=6),51._
Z 201-32723
19 JUK 95g “a

vO * 4 Chief of Station, Hexico City” DATE
you § Chief, WHD

: i
GENERAL Doporational ; ot
sunnier ome = Harold R. HOSATR ee

ACTION REQUESTED: Sign and Return Contract |

; Forwarded herewith is an original and three copie) of an amenduent
to Bubject's cantract, Please have Subject thebe popies and have

t them properly witnessed end signsd by the Chief beat: as contracting
: officer. Please return all but one cop) port era :

16 dune 1958

Attachment:
As described 2buve.

Trans 8,
ic/WH/III



vo + F/T /SAns
tHrouck: = WEY/REP
Frou: Wa/2/Hoxise

SPECTRE HET RUC TIONS REGERUING BE THOS OF PAYMENT —

THONVIDUAL (Peewdon ya) paorECT

fared B, EOEUTR ‘LIED

PERIOD

2 Oot. = 29 Cot, 1960

Bspoeit te bank escomt
on filo in Finance Mvisian

FACTORS AFFECTING AWOUNT DUE

LEAVE TAKEN DURING PERIOD (HT cantroct provides are eninlemeag

CERTIFICATION

A CERTIFY THAT FOR THE PERIOD INDICATED THIS INDIVIDUAL HAS PERFORMEO IN
REESRUANEE wires Tne Tense OF nis CONTRACT AND IS ENTITLED TO PAYMENT.

1] Bigma TURE Gr TOTWERTEED OFFTERT

OE" 433 use previous corre.

SECRET

coer tm ts RAR eatesiaratinace ahem nema

Do/-lox fer

i
\
i



fas eo TRAVEL ORDER WORK SHEET

1e00

[ore eae orbs =e

353

 oaTEaT TATCR

Hovold &

prose

TERT ORE

f yore =e

res

Corea. Agen

You AZE AUTHORIZED TO TRAVEL AND INCUR
CHANCE'OP OFFICIAL STATION, 1? SO DESIGNATED,

HECESSARY Has 1s
15 READE FOR OFFICIAL

SS ACCORDANCE WITH REGULATIONS.
PURPOSES AND NOT FOR

YOUR PERSONAL CONVENIENCE,

TeAvEL OURATION

ean

PER bites NLOWINCE

MOSaah fo Avie A for TOF

-te asspet Kade fi Props

Foaticn

a =

wari

a

are Tig SPLEAL FREMONT TH REINS

ote

eee ie wots Zp fae

T TEPEROERT TRAVEL FUTHORIEED

PROCURE TRANSPORTATION OT

DATE OF @unTw| RELATIONSHIP

TRANSPORTATION REQUEST

[casi 08 OTE

‘DISPOSITION OF EFFTETS
(RUTHORIZATION

‘TetiaTeD GOST OF TRAFEL

a

me, Se
eer ||

Fy &! —$ 7°

[SeieMENT

SATU
Srprast

[SHIPMIEAT POA AUTHORS

TACESS BAGGAGE AUTHORED

‘RECOMPANIED

UNSAID

CERTIFY PROS ARE AVATAR

THES BOE

1

TE AS BOE

“RECOMPARY TRAVELER

TOLLGW wiTait 6 WORTHS

Tl sagnck oF ros eevee
A

RECT DE BATE

Lhd

MANGE RELA
COORDINATION REQUESTING OFFICIAL
maui TITLE & COMPONENT ‘OaTE Tres RE AAD TITLE corr
Va CL
ATE

foe

te

TORE

i



Tae

eariene STaTIOR

[| sEcRET
Ter tae TEE TRL COTE
TRAVEL ORDER [res re = Wes-252-82
[Tiwi tationar Les oreciereedmiai
SCE EAE COSTE
Harold R. Nocmayer (P) :

oATICE PHONE Co

-__ Washington, D.C. Career Agent

YOU AREAUTHORIZED TO TRAVEL AND INCUR NECESSARY FEPETSES IN ACCORDANCE WITH REGULATIONS. THIS TRAVEL OR
CHANGE OF Of FICIAL STATION, IF SO DESIGNATED, 15 MADE FOk OFFICIAL PURPOSES AND NOT FOR YOUR PERSONAL CONVENIENCE.

MOLE; POV
PURPOSE:

THMTRARY, WOO GF Tua BaD PURPORT

Operational Mission

Washington, D. C, to Area Ila for TDY and return.=

TEAVEL CURATION

PER DIE ALLOWANCE

EEG es
1 Sept. [31 Jan 61

DowesTie

Toaticn

vax [| ome

log

{See Beow)

DEPEROENT TRAVEL” AUTHORIZED

TLOWARETE WS SPEEA PROVISIONS WHEN REASONS

PROGURE TRANSPORTATION BY

Authorized reimbursement auto expense for operational use.

tau [oxte oF

Tid] RELATIONSHIP

TRANSPORTATION REQUEST

[osron ome

FY 61 -

reaiece|

‘AUTHORUATION

usPosition OF EFFECTS

ESTIMATED COST OF TRAVEL,

"ATOMOENE ALOuMNCE
wort

BOF To exceed
Cost Br come
SoM CARICA

$750

fseueat |

Eitri

[SaiPWENT PCA AUTRORIIED

ECESE CASCKGE AUTHORIZTO

‘UNACCOMPANIED.

Ret aPANED
TES AnD HOE

TES Bio ODE

T CERTIFY FUNDS FRE AVAILABLE

CCOMPANT TRAYELEE

6 MONTHS

IDVANCE PETOTN

COORDINATION

Tike & COuPONEAT

Gah

‘AUTHORITNG OFFICIAL

TPES WANE aD HE

Jacob D. Esterline

i
i
az)
2 ‘gaeotnre
Bee 34 Five
y mara eag = SDITIONS.
7 mee tae

pees



~

a » > 1
“. ae f
: 7 “\ CLASSIFIED MESSAGE. i
roe SECAET Fy eS :
* UN 3 7 E 4 t
ae 8717 7 G42 2 Py 5 i
d 2 en 6 re
Sak —1_seprmmne 1960 thts
to + usE
‘
FROM, CTOR
CONF: “% sa i
INFO + , aove/a, s/c 2 CTMMEDIRTE i

CITO5OA
aN Bon

To MASH PRIORITY INFO cneor = 48514 °
aman 48514
; Le.
ty CAREER AGENT, TO ASSIST MR. KENT DEPARTING VIA POY
1 SEPTEMBER TDY. BTA 3 OR 4 SEPTEMBER. WILL PRONE KR. KEET OR ;
EBD OF MESSAGE
>

Do
G/B)
cfm)

C/WH/1,/SUPPORE
- COOROINATING OFFICERS :
RELEASING OFficeR seuaee Seen eaters :
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED. . Copy Ro,
: ol- (68 &T]



AGES

ADDRESS:

EMPLOYED:

$600 per month

BALARY:

Research Spacialist

OCCUPATION:



‘soreness

redid
om" S-E-C-R-E-T “
(When Filled In) 20 JUL 1960

cniel,

Miss tte Zehrung

Deputy Director of Security (Investigations
and Support)

SUBJECT 25-8760
F2154E3

1. Reference is nade to your menoranduwi dated 22 April 1960 vherein
you requested a covert security approval to cover the possibility that Subject
nay learn of deteils of her brother-in-lav's work for cney. Tt 4s un
Stood thé Subject resides with her brother-in-lew end his wife, and althown
is aware he does confidex vork for the U.S. Covernacnt, she is not wittin
his Agency connections +

{5 also understood thut no direct revelation of the”
Subjegt's_brother-in 3 work for this Agency is intended. :
3. "tn accordance vith the provisions set forth in Clandestine
Services Instruction No. 10-5 and Clandestine Services Instruction -
Field No. 10-5, 4 covert security approval is granted for the use of
the Subject, as described in your request as set forth in paragraph 1,
above. :

3. A memorandum conteining pertinent information regarding Subject
is being forwarded to CI/QA this date. CI/OA should be contacted and
this information reviewed prior to any utilization of Subject.

4, Subjects of covert security approvals are not to represent

—vthenselves as, nor aré they to be represented as, employees of CIA.

5. Your attention is called to the fact that a covert security
approval does not constitute complete compliance with the provisions
of| ‘Therefore, if you should desire at e later
date to change the status or use ofthis individual, a request for
approval to cover any proposed change should be submitted to this
office.

6. ‘his approval becomes invalid in the event the Subject's
services are not utilized within six months of the date of this
memorandum. '

FOR THE DIRECTOR OF SECURITY:.

Doi 1b reer

7



rincane ron no. ~~ SEG as

Office Memorai dum. + UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

i 7

i To 8 caier, \i Divist DATE: ‘
JIT; Hiss Charlotte

20 JUL i969

Teputy Director of

eference e to
Ged coyert securt

wil 1962
to permit

surfestions

we nO geress
is further understood
onal activities :

"tS OTTISIAL WEeney Bi
that he will not engar
USA.

2. In eecordence with the prov!

tons set forth in

@ COVErt Sccurity eporoval 15 ren
ect, a8 describ your req

d for the use of
s set forth in paragraph 2,

ojects of covert security epprovals ere not ‘to represer:
» thenselves es, nor are they to be represented as, employees of

5. Your attention is called to the fact th
approval does not constitute complete comlience v
of refore, if you should desire at e later
date to chance the status or use of Luis individual, a reouest for
epprovel to cover eny proposed cance should te suzvitted to this office.

% @ covert securi
the provisions

7

|
|

6. This epproval becomes invalid in the event the Subject's
Services ere not utilized within six mouths of the date of this nenoraném.

POR @

Doi 16 F070,

AGRON een otic nici eer NSS SAGTEN MRR neste Yen im

t
i
|



Fa
é

ay

C-82713 (S-B6LL)

ans

by CI/2A 27 avril 1949.

(S # 86h)

CEA restd 22 ok: zg
Acknovledged by 0S/SSD, 6 Kay 1960.
CSA granted 20 July 1960

|
§

GARNER ASSN ESSA

or /6F CFs

i

eee care en ERAS HOBOSIN ND STR EDT DIN



c-82m2 (5-875)

| Acknowledged by OS/SSD, 13 May 1960. (S $3760)

RI Trace, Mo record. ~~ rae
GL #100170, 22 Anri2 1950.

CEA req'd 22 April 1930, Acknowledged by OL/0A 27

CSA grented 20 July 1960



“33 duly 1960

~ SECRET

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Harold R. Hoexayr Assistance
to HH/A/CA BEfort

1. Harold RB. Nox: deen working full time for WH/1/Prop and
WH/i/PA since early Juss 1960. He hao translated important propaganda or
political action mansacripte into Spanish and from Spanish into English.

Ho hes proofread materials to be sent to the station. Ile has offered mug- ~
gestions on operational possibilities and reviewed critically « great deal
of propaganda material under preparation by Hil/l.

2. Mre Rocuayrts work bas been of the highest quality and has been

_-Of Anestimable value to WiVse

3. It 1a hoped that he will be able te continus in hie advisory and
suppert capacity, espocially te our propaganda offorte

DAVID A. PHILLIPS
o/h /Prop

oe
13 Quey Ge

SECRET = J



| ; 2
i Ff . :
! J
Finance Divieton
| WH/Bar
¥WH/3 Mexico
i eo, :
|, Rarold R, HOPMAN LIEKE - - 0 Jnl = 6 Aug 1960
SUI Mexico
I
Eash
E

7 £#, YR

ye

ac Ana /3

“Dar /6E 8 FT



|
i
|
i
i
i

SECRET.
REQUEST For APPROVAL OR INVESTIGATIVE ACTION Lindi

wave handearey 1 cope of this fore

108 | ST Approval and Support Division | FROM:

ED
| Security Support Division/Office of Security

auer: rere PROJECT
ene uct LEDGE
CRYPTOMYM, PSCUDOKY, AKA OR ALIASES. > [ervon Fite wo.

RI #01 Fue wo.

Fo Fie way
TYPE ACTION FECUESTED

PROVISIOWAL OPERATIONAL APPROVAL TL Trrovisiowat Pacrmietany apPaovat

CPEEATIONAL APPROVAL Trace ietaay aPPmOWAL

‘aovisiowsL COVERT SECURITY APPaavAL [eoveer want cntce

Covent security aPeRovaL [EPECIAL_inoutay (SO field daveer lection)

[eoveur secunrty arPwovat FOR Lia\sOw viTm ua. ceFiciaLs

USE _CF_INDIVIGUAL Ok ACTION REQUESTED

SPECIFIC AREA OF USE

Foie vetatis oF usr
Subject will not be used cperationally, She ie the wife of Harold 3. YOMATR
(C#25507), a Career Agent. 3y virtue of this relationship she necessarily
becomes exposed to, sane operational activity of her husband. She ‘rows he is
engaged in intelligence work for KU2ARK. Ske knows he nects agents and has
spoken to then on the phone, but does rot kxow their nazes. Ske knows his
activities are targeted against Conrunists,

TnvESTIOATIVE Coven
35 oh WiC SUBNET BE AWARE oF UE. covERAMENT TEREST IW WIR] [VE co
INDICATE SPECIAL LIMITATIONS OR COVERAGE DESIRED Im Tne SECUESTY OFFICE INVESTIGATION

Any investigation of Subject should reveal in no way Goverment interest.

IF MD INVESTIGATION CUTSIDE CIA, EXPLAIN FULLY

PRO AND GREEN LisT STATUS HOw >
EX [ree ts ow Courvareer. tw 12) Caries atvacnts ED
PaO 11, OR EQUIVALENT, Im (17 cory ATTACHED [eaten rst attacnen. nor
FIELD TRACES Costa Rica
wo RECORD Tso tnronmatiow oF vatue
ILL ef Fonwanors

RU YRACES (Derotetorr Inforeation sed Evelvetion artachea/nO Unaces TORREF Tus
T TY

GaAT one [etrocatonr

me secaen

DIVISION TRACES (baregstery Talerase” Soearaeeaereae
X [mo wecono [recowo [es-ottocatoay [[etaserronr
SiGnarant or CANE OFFICER Se CMa ra

1H/3 Mexico m62 ac /int/3

Tee 77D seco ‘SECRET dot- hiayy ™

i
iF



PERSONAL RECORD QUESTICNNAIRE
PART 1 = BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION

INSTRUCTIONS 1 arive ef
rare Homa. 11 question ix not applicable,

5 MCUSh Cienk pagan il additional space in rested
GENERA PEPSOWAL AMD PHYSICAL DATA
aA res ia

orsPatER Ho.
A

MAME Im maTIVE LANGUAGE Om SCRIPT

A ACVASES, WiCKNAWES, TELECODES, LEGAL CHANGE IN WANE (ST:

fs bave_of wien

7 daabling, parenourey

7) PERSONAL waBITS (Liquor. di

Gate, arreate, charges, punishasata, sentences, #cqul

fo. court wccoao (Court,

Nene Inown =

veneat

DESCRIP tion (Uae Aneriean wtandards of we
erent [oe werent [" ‘Cour Lexion ie race (Shape)

127 olive

E> APPARENT AGE

on

jh. coLor o1 gi- Cokon oF eves jej- term je*- puiio lel. Posvune
‘dark brew “thyed » ‘brown | ned heavy

aa sears ae
Sear on left cteek and jaw visible only. on examination. .

RRS O8 OTHED OISTINGUISNING FEATIBES

‘arreanance
Bord

[90> PaowinenT FEATURES.
Kore
Correrreres:

Vvine FEATURES

Tf OpTaIwAmE

ATTA SAMPLES OF SIGNATURE AND BANDERITING: ALSO DATED PHOTOGRAPH AND PINGERPSINTS.
1 tae 200

rm


neveccosaeimitnsetene won

|
i

:-
ke

‘SECTION IT CITI ZORSIP

+s PRUSENT CitizEnamiP NATIONAL ETY AY BIRTH AME AMY SUBSEOUENT CITIZiNSH

é 3 (0 different than Te
Costa Rican

3 Pat

1F USS WATORACVEEG CITETEN, Give WANE, DATE, CITY AMO WuWGER OF CERTIFICATE Gaanit®

4. TRAVEL OUTSIDE CounTaY OF PaCSINT WESIOENCE (Countri

7 dates and purpo

5
Fas traveled with husband throu:
traveled in Fanana vi

ss nt Latin america, Prior to warriage she had
re she worked, :

SECTION THT OCCUPATIONAL AND FINANCIAL DATA

Ve PRESERT OCCUPATION 2 rine 3. SALARY (Per onnuay

s_ housewife

4: Financia status (Earnings, bank deposite, wocurition and property)

SECTION WV. ORGANIZATIONAL AFFILIATIONS

RSHIP IN RELIGIOUS Okwans ZATIONS

3) PRESENT AND PAST MEMBERSHIP Im PROFESSIONAL AND SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS: POLITICAL AFEDLUATIONS,

‘Stciioa ¥ EDUCATIONAL DATA

te SCHOOLS

Want AnD LOCATION OF Semone ae oF course onus arcenone OT peence
CEIVED

2. UANGUAGES AND DIALECTS:

Laneuace courerence,

UnpERstAND

|
|



o [Stcrion vi

TFICATIONS Ano 1TH

Tipe cares,

WIVE OCTAILS INCLUDING TITLES OF BOOKS Co amTICLES, ALSO WANES OF PUBLISMIRS AAD PUBLIC

2. sPectaL senies,

© [sectiow vit

LTTIES, WOBBIES SUCH AS RADIO, PHOTOGRAPHY, ETC.

WILITARY SERVICE

countey

uner

|

4

|

é
|

TIDEMTIFYENG COUNTRY. IMDICATE WHERE SERVICE PERFORMED, OECOMATIONS, GWEN AND WHY DISCHARGED. GIVE DETAILS IF WAP

Parsomce.

© [stctios vine

EMPLOYMENT HISTORY

NOTE: INDICATE GIPONGLOGICAL_ HISTORY OF BMPLOYWENT LISTING LAST POSITION FIRST. INCLUD® ANY GOVERWENT BUPLOTWENT

1 Inclusive parey (Fros- To,
Decenber 1915-sresen'

Te euPLover

housewife

3. aDDRESS:
.

© Wee OF woRK

7 SALARY OF EARNINGS

EASON FOR LEAVING.

Rea aT
Barly 291S-Feee

Cafe

F ea EEESSEESESESESEEETEEESGUSSLEETESEIIN

a Wee OF woRK

iUaay oA

129

tamanes J

EO

TREASON FOR LEAVING

narriage

ashier

{¥- tnctusive caves (From To,

Ish

fa. eupLoves

wa apoRess

TYPE OF BORK
Soda Fountain

7

SALARY OW EARNINGS

Pee nO

ReagoN FOR LEAVING

higher salary

T. INCLUSIVE Oates (From-To,

Ipkh

Fa. turcover

i woRESS

a. Tre oF woRn

OW EARNINGS

Eo

7 REASON FOR LEAVING

Labot problens

PLOVER,

a ADORE:
i

= Wee oF wane
Soda Fountain

LEAVING

i
{
H



‘SECTION IK

WARITAL STATUS

o

eutce ont] [ama

J Jeworce

TL Jseran

XTorvoneeo

[ewuco

aire og

1f You wave BLEW was

> WORE THan once,

INCLUDING AWWULWENTS.

USE SHEET FOR FopULe wife Om HUSEARO

HUSBANDS GhvImG oaTA REQUIRED OCLow FOR ALL PREVIOUS MaRetAcES.
2 WaWE OF SPOUSE First widdle
a pate oF wanwince 5 PURGE OF MARRIAGE

17 Decembe

F

|

FULL Nance

PLACE oF BrRIH

x

Msusstourwr errizensnips weLo ey any cHiLD (Jdentily child and

@ his, oF hee

© | section xr
iF F aan ad asan
3° SuSsLGUENT civizenaniPs 7 PReSenT RESTOENCE
i = 1gh2
°
2. vEAR FRETWY? ia NaFionat ITV ay 181s

je. éccurarror
housewife

&

¥ PaesenT wesioENeE
czased - 1956 ,

é
i
i
1
i



0 [section xt

BROTHERS AND SISTERS

FULL wane

Ean
oF g1Rt

PLACE OF piety

rorerry

x
x

x

© [Section xiv

RELATIVES, ACQUAINTANCES AND COR TA:

Ne NAMES OF RELATIVES IM ANY GOVERMENT SERVICE: INDICATE WANE OF GOveRAWtn?

“nD POSITIONS HELD.

Eusband -

CIA (Career Agent)

rary

VES. FRIENDS. COMRESPONDENTS IN v.s. (Euplaln
2 sisters — } sister (15

Tat

aRipy
ve together)

bushand's pare unto) - sister (residitg,

mates 1147100 OF Chyse—arex
nay have U.S

ULES TUTE WEEE, “USTS, E117 bad Baader oT cert View

Wantedy

U.S. citizenship,- bhe-has arzlied.

“ALIASES, TELECODES AND
' Seevice.

LATIONSHIP OF ALL PERSONS KMOEN TO BE CONNECTED IN ANY BAY

PERSORAL ASSOCIATIONS

1. UIST CLOSE ASSOCIATES, INDIVIDUALS O8 GROUPS

HISCELLANEOUS.

‘SrowaTune



é

i
i

|
|

: 2 SECRET -
REQUEST FOR APPROVAL OR IRYESTIGATIVE ACTION

(Always bandeorey 1 copy ot this fore)

| Cl/vperational Approvai and Support Division

| Security Support Divisfon/Office of Security

SUBJECT: PRouce®

(True nage)

LIBDGS

€1/0a FILE nO.

CRYPTONYM, PSEUDONY. AKA OF ALIASES

Ri 207 FILE MOL

30 FILE mo.

TYPE ACTION REQUESTED

PROVISICRAL OPERATIONAL APPROVAL PROVISIONAL PROPRIETARY APPROVAL

yp oremaricwat aPreowat PROPRIETARY APPROVAL

ci] pwovisvosnt_covent sccuniTy APPaDrAL CovenT nauk cutee

COVERT SECURITY APPROVAL SPECIAL INQUIRY (SO livid investigation)

COVERT SECURITY APPROVAL FOR LIAISON WITH U.S: OFFICIALS

USE OF INDIVIDUAL OR ACTION REQUESTED

SPECIFIC ADEA OF USE

Tout betaite oF GEE
Subject is residing with Farold R. NOZMAYR (ps), Career Agent, her brother-in-law,
Because of this, she might find out sine details of HO"MAYR's real job. She does not
know he 49 working for KU3A3K, but she doss know he works for ODYOXE in a confidentie
capacity: W2KAYA said. ste Has neither an avareness nor an interest in politica.

No Id traces on her husband g Heeitistissssetveneninna| Without more bio-data, it was imossible

INVESTIGATIVE COVER
LL SUBJECT 8€ cuaae OF U.S, GOVERNMENT INTEREST IN MIMI

INDICATE SPECIAL LIWIFATIONS O@ COVEVAGE DESIRED Im THE SECURITY OFFICE IMVESTIGAT IOM

No investigation should indicate U. Government interest.

TF WO INVESTIGATION OUTSIDE Cha, EXPLAtM FULLY

PRO AND GREEN LIST STATUS

Pao 1, ca Courvalfat, om (i) Cores ATTACHED pea 1 wine IATA not be Tormarded
PRO 10. ce EQUIVALENT. Ie (1) COPY ATTACHED ist atracuep.no: LOTL70

Fei

mo acceso HO tnrOnwaTION OF VALUE

DEROGATOSY ImFOSWATION ATTACHED. @/TW EVALUATION HOT tniteaten (Esplaneth
| [atte ee remeaaneo

Ri TRACES (Derogatory Infor!

[XT Rowecoas L_ [recess BawocaTORY

i DIVISION TRACES (Derega jathon Attached)
[no recono L__|recoe> ‘DEReATORY

‘SienaTuRe oF case oFFiceR

WE /3 Mexico



PERSONAL RECORD QUESTIONNAIRE
PART f ~ BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION

INSTRUCTIONS: 1.

2. auawer f applicable, wi

a ca
S_AUISEK Bland pages. fone! enace ie needed,

[section 1 GERERAL PERSOWAL AND PHYSICAL DATA
rs “oan qwrearey (hasty Theey

Twat tw WATEVE LANGUAGE OR SCRIPT y wast AT Brate (IT dilforent then Ttew 1.)

TUVaSER, WTERWAGES, VELECOOES, LEGAL CHANGE Gu Name (STATE TT Tar and BREE BT Hy

‘bate oF oiatw Peace oF BATH

Gatling, paraccerey

fe. count mecono (Court, date, arraste, chargew, pani

Kone .

‘DEscaiPtion (Use Anevicas standards of renenta, if Bray

sb. ace | ec. apPpameny Act wcionr [ef cowuexion FACE (Shape)
Rate 1 Light, oval

jen. Coton oF waiR He COLOR oF YES Postuse

brom blu good
ae -SEARS and UAREE OF GInER DiSTiNGUTENING FEATURES

GENERAL APPEARANCE
attractive and neat

crrerrry

Fess L050 eve > ry te 20



‘SECTION IT it) ZEnSHIP
Par Sint CiL2EmSMie 12. WATIOMAL + Er AT O1@Im aNd OMY SUBSLOVENT CITIZENSHIPS (IF different chan Then 1.)

TouP Usd. HATUBALIZED CITIZEN. GIVE Mase, GATE, CFFY AND NUMEER OF CERTIFICATE GRANTED

TRAvit OuTstOE COUNTAY OF PALSINT RisibEWcE (Geantries, dates and puri

‘SECTION UV OCCUPATICAAL AND FINANCIAL UATE
a Time SALARY (Per annue)

Financial STATUS (Earnings, baat deposite, wecesities and property)

4 Ynown - not velieved to have eny assets :

SECTION TV. ORGANIZATIONAL AFFILIATIONS:
1. MEWDERSHIF 1 RELIGIOUS ORGANI ZATICMS
Catholic
7. PRESENT AND PAST MEMBERSHIP IW PEGFESSIOWAL AMD SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS: POLITICAL AFFILIATIONS

Kone - é : ieee

: Section ¥ ERIATIONNL DATA
1. SCHOOLS

DATES ATIENOEO etait

MAME AND LOCATION OF SCHOOL want GF .coURSE
REeCIvED

-

2. _UANGUAGES AND DIALECTS:
couPevEnce

(Liat beter each Lenguege in shich yoo inind a | umpee STAND
ee any degree of competence.)

ves | we ve [xo | ; ves | xe



SECTION Vi FE FVCATIORS AND INT
Vo anDIGATE anv warviug, Give AEVSILS IMGHUTINE “IFLFS OF BOOKS OF ABTICAES, ALSO NAMES OF PuELISNERS AMO PUBLICAY
how oaTtS. :

None 1

2. SPECIAL SKILLS, AGILITIES, HOBBIES SUCH AS RADIO, PHOTOGRAFHY. CIC.

hone

SECTION Vit MILITARY SERVICE i

counTaY unter

‘ Ta

SIDEMTIFYIMG"COUNTRY. INDICATE WHERE SCAVICE PERFORMED, DECORATIONS, SHEN AND BMY OISCHARGED. GIVE DETAILS
PRISONER.

SecTion vil) THPLOTHENT HISTORY :
NOTE: INDICATE GIRONOLOGICAL HISTORY OF ENPLOWWENT LISTING LAST POSITION FIRST. INCLUDE ANY GOVERNWENT BVPLOPWENT.

1 INCLUSIVE DATES (Froo-To] 2. cMPLgvER 3 apoRess

l9STapresent (see atpached) | .

@ Tre oF woRk S_SALARY O8 EARNINGS REASON FOR LEAVING
:

To WRELUSIVE DATES (F7S=- To] a. gurl OVER. Ta annarse
1953 - 1957
TRE OF one S_SALARy On EARNINGS [oo REASON FOR LEATING
beautician + oD ree iO cane te =
T. inclusive bates (Frow-To] 2. gupLoven ‘Ts: sponess

19k7 - 1sh9

TRE OF WORK SSALaRY om EannINGs [oo REASON fom LEAVING
castier p85 pe tO

TWeLUstve OATES (FTeS°T5) 7 eurLoveR TOORESE
1ph5 - Ishé
a. Wee oF eome EACany Of EamwinGs [6 REASON FoR LEAVING

1 4 and departed for U

inctustwe pate (FFea= To
1gk2 - ish
= ree oF wome

Soda fountain



SECTION IX WARITAL STATUS, jueiaeee

SINGLE TL [esearco re ~[sceamateo [orwexero L [ences
2” STATE GATE, FUACE snG EASON Coa Ail —GipamaLions —oinoacie Aeon

FATE OR | IF vou HAVE BEEN MARRIED WORE THAN ONCE, INCLUDING ANMULWENTS. USE SHEET FOR FOUMER WIE ON Husband
. HUSBAND: GIVING OATA REQUIRED OCLOW FOR ALL \FREVIOUS MARRIAGLS :

m7 (iddtey {weap qeaty

MAME OF SPOUSE cF
22 edove
far bate oF wanaiace [= Pinee oF wannince
aba
J. OATC OF BIRTH ‘7s PLACE OF BInTH 7
rot Imoen not known
fe; wationacery ar biaiy [o> Suastcutat citezexen

Veda. non

To. PRESENT RESIDENCE (LOST FeuTaERee, TT aeeeaRea
drot
SECTION X

FULL Mane

i

PLACE OF oiRTH NATIONALITY AT QatHE

i

‘SECTION XI
1 Fy mame

PRESENT RETTOENEE
ééceas 73 13 Cctodir 291-2

OCCUPATION ~PaESEnT Resi pence
housewife seceased 22 September 1956



ai aa Re

e [section xi BROTHERS AND SISTERS.

Sex] year
@ [or aint

PLACE OF aint maTtomaLity AT o1Te®

FULL mame

‘oxornea

Wray be naturalized voy

© [section xiv RELATIVES, ACQUAIRTANCES AWD CORTACTS
T, MANES OF WELATIVES IN ANY GOVERMENT SERVICE: INDICATE Name OF GOVERWMENTS AND POSTTTONE WELDS

one

RELATIVES, FRIENDS, COMRESFONDENTS IN U.s. (BiBJain FaTationahip)

sisters - see Section 411i

WATORALITATION OF CLOSE RELATIVES IN Uva. (Give name, date, Clty ond fei iTicate araatedy

sse Section ZIIT

“NAMES, ALIASES. TELECODES AMD RELATIONSHIP, OF ALL PERSONS KNOWN TO GE CONNECTED IM ANY WAY WITH ANY INTELLIGENCE
Seavice.

© [scstion_ xv PERSONAL ASSOCIATIONS
ts LIST CLOSE ASSOCIATES, INDIVIOUALS O® GROUPS

© [section xvi i i HISCELLANEOUS:

‘ShewaTune ¥ 7

i
i



] i i :
Section 12 :
#6 = sister (3-2 visa iesued at.|
H Seetion Vii i
| |
. i Manicurist :
Hy Unemoloved :
i tod
i fee
i ele
i : Unemloyed \
Fo 1Se9-1960 fee
pol
{ 1 a
«|
os '1950-present Temporerit Loved :

* The dates were taken fron pascvort travel.

‘SEQET



April 15, 1960

‘De/- le F 2 F,

Chief, WH/3/Mexico

wool





4



5.
6

weed



‘i
& a)
| fe



de



;
ft eens



: Distribution:

15 March 1960
MEXCRANTOM PORs 7D/2803
FROM + Chief, MIP
SUSIECT t Rarald 2 “aLVAYR (pa)
Carecr Acont

2. Harcld R, SCHMAYR lnft Heckes City on 12 March 10 far

PGS sscignzen’ at Readquerters. He arrived in Hastington, [Ce

eG 12 Rachie :
2 It ie requested tint NOLMAIR's comlete salary bo deposited
to his bank ascount, :

Cfan/s

Orig. &2- Addressee

oF
1, Hexi chrono



S-E-C-R-£-T

:TO § DIRECTOR 4 ~
MAR 11 02092 60

“FROM + MEXICO CITY
.
ACTION: C/WH 2. (MR HEYH, WH DIV NOTIFIED 2150 10 MAR 60)

PRIORITY

INFO + Cop, C/ccD 2, C/ci, S/c 2

IN 11770

nl INFO. CHE:
j T° DIR MEX! 5269

RE MEXt 5261 (IN 10787)#* : LY 323 25 8

1. NOEMAYR AND FAMILY ETA WASH 12 'ARCH VIA AMERICAN AIRLINES: Lic: 380°

WILL CALL BYNAM AT HOME ON ARRIVAL. HO RESERVATIONS NECESSARY. . :

2. ASSUME Per REF REQUEST. SUGGEST BE COVERED FOR

EITHER CABLE OR TELEPHONE REQUEST SINCE FLIGHT FROM MEX! DIRECT TO DALLAS

WHERE CONNECTS 360. QUESTION SOLVENCY MAY ARISE DALLAS SITE OF

|
ie

COMPANY. : a
END OF MESSAGE i

CS COMMENT: DISSEMINATION APPLICABLE TO RYBAT CABLES...

a S-E-C-R
REPRODUCTION BY bellies THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

cece


i
7
i
b
YO + NEXTCO GIT i
HOM: DIRECTOR i
CONF: cfs 2 : i .
INFO. cop, c/cco 2, C/Ci, S/o z |
u “ i
H i
|
10 INFO Cie Dik Vn
i » I
VIED i
*
| REF: MEXI 5261 (IN 10787) : ear
1 : neat
' ‘1, RORAYR GHD PALILY TO FROCSED DIRECTLY WAGH. TRAVORD 262-50. t
| i
! ALSAVED TO BACKSTOP E-HLOLENT AND SOLVENCY, ‘ : i
H 2., AME RESERVATIONS DESIHSV?, TON ARRIVAL WASH CALL NR, HEYN EL 65243,
! pid
| END OF MESSAGE eee
|
sf fiat)
H Hana
H jee
| >
{
|

Cooprarious:
(0 hearch 63

confi, (BY PHONZ,
mt IOS Dor te Td

WF xs ee: ‘i

Ere Meee Or ae oer
: fete. Kina, C/9D* </ COOBPIMATIMO oF ABS
“se RELEASING OFFICER fr | SEGRE? AUTHENTICATH ieee y,

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

poe


bee eta ed | ‘ | a OUTING.
DATE + 9 Mar 60 S-E-C-R-E-T a a 4
TO 4 DIRECTOR 3 3
FROM vEXTCA CITY
ACTION: <_C/AWH 2
cop, c/ci, s/c 2 *

INFO of

i
i
i

-

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE _

a

: y

a re

POUCHING FULL REPORT.

DIR INFO.

RE MEXt 5206 (IN 46565) **

1, NOEMAYR CAR SOLD 2 MARCH FOR 680 DOLLARS HIGHEST PRICE FINALLY OBTAINABLE.

“ye

2. TENTATIVE ETD HOEHAYR AND FAMILY WOW 11 TO 13 MARCH.
DESTINATION DESIRED. ASSUME WASH BUT WISH CONFIRM.

© 2. ALSO NEED ASSURANCE

yp ase be :

In 10787
CHE MEXI 5261

ADVISE PRIORITY

IF NOEMAYR REQUIRED CABLE

BE PREPARED SUPPLY SUCH PROOF IF CALLED FOR.

END OF MESSAGE

JADDRESS TO VERIFY EMPLOYMENT AND SOLVENCY.

C/S COMMENT: *DISSEMINATION SAME AS REFERENCED CABLE.
**STATED THAT NOEMAYR'S ETD WAS DEPENDENT ON SALE OF CAR.

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE 1S PROHIBITED.

ODACID REP MEX! SUGGESTED HE

eo
ge ws

vw

Dor lenrrr

Copy No.

D hared bo. ae

|
i
|



ee)

FROM) MEXICG CETY

;
10m

"INFO
iG

iteed|
!

ASSIFIED MESSAGE

7% ch
i leas

y SSuIINe
at Seb -GeiefeT tir 7
eo 5 ica

+ DIRECTOR

"COP, C/eco 2, cet, onfs, suk, D/oP, 0s 2, Sfee

TO

DIR usd MEXE 5153

REFS: A. DIR Thoot (our 9th70)*

: B. HMAA 14463
DERSRSFTIZED

1. NOEMAYR LOST PASSPORT SOMETIME DURING WEEK ENDING 13 FEB. AFTER THOROUGH

SEARCH FAILED DISCLOSE REPORTED LOSS ENB. AND ON EMB ADVICE TO MEXI SECRET SERVICE !

SIGNED AFFADAVIT RE Loss AT EMB AND ENB. REQUESTING DUPLICATE URGENT BASIS,
ESTIMATE OUPLICATE WILL BE APPROVED APPROX THREE WEEKS. REQUEST HANDLED NOEMAYR i
WITHOUT INVOLVING STATION, : 3

2. DUR DELAY ARRIVAL NOEMAYR REPLACEMENT AND STATION ‘STRONG FEELING NOEMAYR

DEPARTURE SHOULD NOT BE POSTPONED FURTHER STATION PLANNING USE OLIVER Q.
AS CUTOUT CP ops PENDING ARRIVAL REPLACEMENT,

WIMPEN

REQUEST WIMPEN CLEARANCE Be
AMENDED IF NECESSARY TO ALLOW USE AS INDICATED. ADVISE PRIORITY.

BE MOVED EVENTUALLY FROM LIERST AND USED SOLELY CP OPS, °

WIMPEN TO

END OF MESSAGE
c/s COMMENT: *HQS STATED NOEMAYR NEW ASSIGNMENT NOT YET FIRM,

2o/-let ear!”
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE 1S PROHIBITED,



| Mr. Harold R. Noomayr

Dear Mr. Npemayee

Reference is made to your contract with the United Statea Government,
| ae represented by the Contracting Citicer, effective | June 1957, as amendad.

Effective 13 Fobruary 1560 eaid contract, a6 amended, 19 further amended
by adding after subparagraph (c} cf paragraph four (4) entitled “Allowances”
! the following: |
"{@) You will be entitled to a home service transfer allowance in cenforme |
| Anco with applicable Government regulations.” |

All other terms and conditions of the contract, ae amended, remain in full
force and effect.

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

BY. [5

Contracting ©

1S Fea. Go.

ol JOG EEL



GHOEMB YLT

15 February 1960

MGHOPSNOGM FIR: Chicf, Contrect Personnel Division

SUBJECT: “y Harold Re NOSKYR (pa)

It le requested that the contract for Harold R. NIEMAYR,

Caroer Agent, be aranded to include a Stone Service Transfer | i

: . : |

, Allovanea,® .

: |

: { :

: : d. C. King
: tediecte ¢tarac, on} Ghief, WD ae : a

* wi/3/Yexico/Czenrungien Penne : R a
: ;
1 - WH/3/Mexico ©

1 ~ Subject

we

Qop-1e FFF

z

apiciioe


“a

10, February 1960

ce

‘THE, RECORD:
NOEMAYR 4g a Career Agent in Mexico City on Project LIEDCE. According

he is to depart Mexico City for Hqs upon the arrival

of HECAYIY. HEGARTY is scheduled for a medical release about 27 Peb &

and should arrive in Mexico abqit 20 March, After a few weoks overlap,

SSesasnisee aaa
NOEMAYR should depart for Hqs about 1 April 60, ready to go to work.

According to Charlotte he prefers to take no home leave.

Apparently has been working with the Covert Training people

in an attempt to place him in that type of activity

Per Col, King on 10 Feb Covert Training indicated that they had so iy
in subject and Col. King requested the above information for use in his

"contact with Col, Baird in a further attempt to place NOEMAYR with OTR.

Dot 168-8 Ft



e . SECRET : Hitt

HEMORANDUM FORt Chief, OTR

FROM 2 Chief, WHD ~
SUBJECT * Harold Re NOSMATR (pe)

1. Roference is made.to our telephone conversation on 10 February
1960 reparding the possible use by your office of Subject. Attached
4 for your informetion are some facts concerning his personal md opera=-
tdonal background.

2, NOGHAYR has successfully worked for KUBARK
for clown consecutive years. All operations officers handling cub=
joct ond hig training officers at Headquarters have comended his
operational capability end achieverznta. Ho received an official

mnendation from the arency for hia work in Cuba,

i a Td Division has several sotives for wishing to bring KOBAATR
i to Headquerters for a tour of duty.
| a) After having lived and worked for 80 long
i without boing able to mingle freely with Agericms he needs to retum
to the United States for mental and physical readjustments for himself
end his familys Tho fact that his wife hee not been able to beoons en
\ American citdzen and that his children havo not had an opportunity to
live in ths Stetes hee been ef understandatle increasing concern to
NOEMAYR. This, combined with the otress| required
by| his non-aseociation with anyone except
his Cease Officer with whom he can discues his work and. problons.has
t been making him increasingly more tense during the last yeer or tio.
: HOBHAYR 4s en extremely capable Operations Officer end Wil Division
earnestly believes that it is KUBARK's responsibility to bring this
man and his family to the United States for two yeara. Your cooper=

ation in this effort is being sought.
i i b) HOEMAYR, even though he has received Headquarters covert
H training, still needs to be closely associated with Headquarters for
: a tour'to acquire additional background on operational techniques and
approaches end to be exposed to Headquarters' activity and thinking.
bee a This exverience is requisite to making a well-rounded intelligence
operator out of NOEMAYR .and will certainly affect his future useful-
ness ta KUSAKK.
c) A Headquarters tour will onable NOEMAIR's wife to becom
. @ United Statas citizen and parmit his children to receive,at least,
* @ part of their education in the States.

BECRST

— JaFE, 4 te ae LS Doe le FET ee



x

SBCRET

- 2.

kh. WH Division plans to bring NOZMAYR to the States the end of

Marsh 1960 in his capacity of a Careor Agent.

S. As a Career Agent, NOEMAYR will continue to be funded under
LISTG3, his present project. All funds required to support HOEMAYR
and his activity will be charged to this project against the WH Divie
sion ellotmant. In addition, WH Division will handle all adwinistra=
tivo problems connected with NOEMAYR, such as renewal of the project,
after coordinating such action

wits your offices.
6. WH Division hss confidence in NOZMAYR and believe he can ba

of value to OTR in dts training progras. Tha Mexican desk will be
glad to work closely with you in the handling of NOEMAYR Sf you so
desire. KOZMAYR is enthasiastic about his impending Headquarters sa=
sigaasnt and is anxious to start work iemadiately upon return to the
United States.

Te If you decire any edditéonal information on NOEMAYR, I will
be happy to make it available on request.

SECRET



SECRET
I. PERSONAL

NOBHAYR was barn on 20 June 1922 in De Kalb, linois. He had
five yeare experience in General Air Force intelligence work. He was
discharged fron the Air Force on 18 February 1949. He attended the
University of Costa Risa for threa yearsthan trensferred to the
University of Habana. NOZMAYR sponke fluent Spanish.

Ho “a3 married to! of Sen Jose, Costa Rica, on

7 Decenber 1945. His wife hopes to obtain hor U. S. citizenship
when NOEHAYR is transferred PRS to the United States. Thoy have two
ehildren.

TX. PHOTOGRAPH



[
1

~" provide hin with monthly incons. When Subject retems to the Us-Ss,

. ing « new, during bis tour here.

SSCRET

-2-

III. CONTRACT . a

NOZHAYR was first placed under contract by KUBARK on 1 June 19h9.
He in now under contract es a Career Agent. He is a GS-12.

NOEMAYR 1s operating, He supposedly vas ;
sent by the "Public Surveys Instituto" of Talla, Jaxas, into Koxieo i /
to investigate the prospects of ostailishing a Mexican affiliate. ti |
supplenants his incoms by free-lance writing. He actually has had
articles published in Bohorda and Boys Life. Subject can show these
articles Oa one operational trip hs took photo=
erephe which eppesred in the Hey York Pizze end the Hou York Batty
Hirrere To further cover hia sources of income NOZMAIR has let it be

‘mown that he owns property in Costa Rica end in Cuba ond that rentals

‘WH Division will request jto asaist NOEKAIR in establish

Vv. TRAINING

WORM received covert training at Headquarters during October
and Deconbor 1953 in all phases of basic tradecraft. Ho was rated
” above average by all three of his instructors. 7
WORMAYR wos given additional covert training in Hay 1958.

"SECRET



SECRET
-3

VI. OPERATIONAL BACKOROUND

In carly 1953 bo was transferred to the PESUCCESS Project with

additional éutios
In 1954 ho transferred te Cubal

In Cubs he

vorked on ponotration of the Communist targete at, ths University of

 Habanae During the eans period he wss dlso in contact with subvor-

sive oppositionist elemonts.
In Hay, 1957, Chief CI/ICD recommnded that NOZMAYR be considered

: for spot essignnents of making recruitnent pitches throughout Latin

Amarica to CP targets, This recomendation was sade after

[____Peputy Chief C1/I0D, had an informal discussion with FOSMATR

on 9 Hay on this subject. Jbolicved NOEMAYR would be an

effective recruiter and NOSMAYR expressed an interest in such essign-

“SECRET



goin

y

SECRET
-4-

In May, 1958, ho volunteered to go to the rebel countain hoed=
quertera of Castro, in Cuba, to obtain inforzation for KUBARK. He
received a commendation for his work during this special assignment.

BOEMA Yi was trensforred to Mexico on 7 June 1958 whare he has
teen handling Conmmist Party penstration agents and inferzanta.

He spent Jenuary 1959 in Cube on a TIDY assignment ciailar to that
hs undertook in Marck ox 1958, and for which he received his commends

tiene

VIX. GOUTSTAUDINO PERFORMANCE AND CONMENDATIONS

SECRET



SRCREP
~5e

In May 1959 NOSMAYR was avarded a monetary bonus of $300.00 in
recognition of his outstanding services on behalf of KUBARK in the
Sierra Heestra sree during the early part of 1956. For his outetand-

fing performance on this asaignsent and his grost dsvotden to duty,
ROSMAYR received a personal conendation from Censral Cabell, In
ecrly January 1956 HIOGNATR voluntoored to undartale @ mission to con
tact Cuban rebal loader Pidal Castro in the Sierra Haestra sountains
in Southaastern Cuba. Ho spent approximately three weeks in the soune
tain hideout of Castro's headquarters during which time he ewn joined
them in an cctual attack on the town of Mangum illo.

i
:
;
:

i



we ete rd

Li ad CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
Pa wees P| [ Clea ceaeeereeeaeae NOURNG eae,
ny SeEeCeR-E-T i | 1 ts

DATE +

TO + DIRECDR
ROMs ExICo CITY

ACTION, 3

INFO + 4 s/t 2

VAN 20 22332 60

IW 31964

0 DIR INFO,

HEX! 4993
REP: vERt 4883 (IN 26097)* : I.
NOZMAYR WISHES EEGIN WORK NEW ASSICNENT IMMEDIATELY UPON ARRIVAL, : j

NO LEAVE PLANS. a i

S. ALGUEGT INPO RE NEXT ABSICAMENT OINCE HE HAO CHILDRENS BCKOOLING TO

CONBIDER, f :
: Ge TeO WEEK MINIMUM OVERLAP WITH HEGARTY REQUIRED MEXI, j boos
een ENO OF MeegAae ees
{
i
i

o/s COMMENT) CHEK! CONCURRED PROPOSAL HEGARTY AS NOEMAYR REPLACEMEYTS, WOULD
| VISE LEAVE PLANS KOYMAYR ON HIS RETURN 7 JAN FROM PERSONAL GUSINESS TRIP
mo BANU TO SELL HOUSE. CEPARTED MEX! FOR SANU ft van. ©

ETA IFES Hi ip

Ve ae Replaceme i
= es would mit NOE MAR ie eg sue :
pee Beas O/a 1 MARCH Cd. :

a Ve rer

lehrobuction sy OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED, Copy No,



ACHON We §

mos CCD 2, OP 2, s/t 2, ons, soa

Oo ik. : a INES. SARS

q "Re: Din 08383 (our 78:27) « (NOT Set sans)

} : Tot COMO FROPS

AL JAS HOOMAYS ii

LACEMENT.

i . 2. WILL ASVESE LEAVE "PLANS. NOEMAY? ON HIS RET} i JANUARY F ROW PERSONAL , =

? a WUSINESS TRIP SANU TO SELL HOUSE.  ORPARTLE MEX! FOR SAR 1 JANUARY,

| ENO OF message eee

Sf consents *HQS PROPOSED HEGARTY AS NOcHAYE REPLACEMENT...

REPRODUCTION 87 OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE !5 PI



a * 622/se/ee ve w

rrz

wr nt Mayo
et 4 2555

"HO: CCD 2, OP 2, S/c 2

he
Be Be uae: ,

2. BRB FRoPoses

RECENT SURORRY. FeRrODED qr
STATIGH cotcummes,.



RASS Fat HO.

Chior, wHD 2201-32723

on

Met of Mtaticn,) 22 august 1959

Corer vr ae

ono, for information on:

ke rae
Grerational/ifeld Traces

(CHECE “ONE

NO RIDEKING @EOUIRED

INDEXING CAN Be JUDGED.
BY QUAUFED HQ, DESK ONY

RerRENCES

ERS-tie 1730

2. Field traces ravoal the felloving en tho CORDERO Calésroa family:

2

8) Esderdog wus born on 29 Nareh 1912, has boon Living in 7annaa
fer esvoral years, and is currently et tho Unfoa Club
in Fessca City;

b) Aptesio had beon living for coveral years in tho Paeifie Banana
dena city of wmpes, Costa Rien. Recently, he waz placed in Jesh
in San Juan de Tibos (a suburb of San Joze, on a charse of robbery;

6) Herde wo bern in San JoeS on 7 Fobrasry 1920 and vasa atlitant
Sorsusist prior to and during the’ 1948 Costa Kican Revolutians
After tho revoluticn, he lof’ the Party valoatrily, bat was re-
ported to have boan activaly ayopathotie towards eassuniss for tho
Past ten yoara, Another couree ren:rted this nonth that Marie 4s.
visited regulerly by cosainista, whe leave printed propaganda vith
hin,

4) Ardruvel vas tera in Son Jos oa 12 Novesber 1929 and is currently
if iiving in San Joob, esployed as 4 cheasaker ine shop ouzed by a
commmirte Bo {2 rejorted to be symeathotie to communisn, .

©) Ansola Arvonting was born ia Sun Jose os 15 March 1915, now living
An Haxiee vith her busband vho ts « POPRDE citizen. Thay oma
houme in San Joss, in vaich yaria (soe @. above) nov liver;

t) wea barn in fan Joc$ on 27 February 1923, te married (caman
Jaw) toa Spaniard, and bso resided in Spain for rany years,

@) Congyele fs living in few York City, working in o beauty parlor,
There are no available treses on Soma or Izabel. fl

Dineropancios will bs noted on the vitel statistics as opposed to

these in reference; Casta Rican Ciril fogistry files are. the Station's
soures. Tho Registry hod no file en either hores er Isakel, Station
files, inquiries to Station assets, and an investigation ecndusted by ~
HUBURBOT eecounted for tha narrative portions of ‘the treess, Tho
above tresses include all of the information available to the Stations

J-kiachingten 4
2-Files
FiAstef
4s dngust 1959
ole ie ETT
aoa fees



DISPATCH

he £6 om operations! wasting en @ duly 195% BEBUBOTRYD QalA RESLAMAH. that

uae stare ef the efforte ef Harte C.RN8NO Calderon to rowomter ahg PWT, =
premumbly oo ODTOME bebal’, Hithest euktieg far eo reply, IIANOIi/3 then
Plsaded wlth SUSEAYAY to otop these effarta fer tha Falloui ng Peacoat

e) atle handled by ROTHATR ooseral years age, SOUIBIIY) often bd

+ sald be estertalard ty WEMAT2Zs wifo asd mttonie-lay stil _
BOTHATA'G arrivel fer the seating, GUNANOID/3 bes harbored @
Geop fcor for ycaro that Sabjoad (BUTMATA'o bretnorain-lay)
aight have esa MEUSOLYS eatar ce lsave the noctiaz atten

GP that ECEHAYR’s wife, a Gaeta Rican mileml, aigat have
{eittsegiy er ctborvice) empsces TIMES) to bor breather,

FORA /S wo avn Ciasntn parvemig, @laim tht Coa.<20

tke eecsscary quilifications of imtelitgacss aad diceratien to
perfern Ja the copactty ef @ pesetwutien egunts

EGOEAIAY dese cay besvledge ef a panotzatlen etter, ext necincd
EBUIBIY) that eo actien would over bs tolen to exhany DRUID Is
pesitica, £8 em eperatinnal mscting uth the profess ores cf fico? later. .
Ghe eom evening, HUSSAUAY expreased derp csascee ever GURLDOIR/3%e state
Of wlsd erusarnicg COi/589, and tactfully e@eiced esa SES TUITE
if at vero vithia the Statioa’a abiiity, = -

bin Geopemarily, to provide a filler esverage
eetivition, aml to perform cpotting tasks for the Station -

A& @ contest on 23 Daly 1559) EUEEIYR cet ap a contest rlos, and Lomtrested
GSRIERD fa the Moation's COATT aszested without qoectiem, and 6
bean, s



yo + DIRECTOR

035/ER/CuT/CwT/CwT ~
ROUTING

sare. 14 JULY 1959 ee a
5

+ FROM | Jac lY 08 17259
DWH 5) Roose eet fe
Sweo 15/2 ROUTINE,
: : In 4phgg
Spasuinanpd larsgunnesapas — _
: 10 PRITY MEXI ca 428

|
'
i

eo

RE: MEXt 4183 (IN 37896 )*
NOEMAYR AND FAMILY RETURNING MEX! 14 JULY VIA LACSA.
Scien eae
END OF MESSAGE

CS COMMENT: "REQUESTED ETA NOEMAYR.

Dor-te FTF

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE 1S PROHIBITED. Copy Ne.

H
f
i
ic
t



CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

190 cvafsufsik :

1S DIRECTOR
FROM

ACTION: WH 5

ROUTINE

i fie
| wo «cop, ccd 2, D0/S, SSA, C/uS 2, MS, OP 2, S/C 2
i

. MEXI mo, IR eat

REF MEX! 4193 (IN 37896 4 3425 (IN 38658 ) se

SANJ 327

: : j
NOEMAYR RETURNED SANJ 8 JULY. ENTIRE FAMILY CONFINED BED °™ :
~~ ti
SERIOUSLY ILL WITH FLU. EPIDEMIC SPREADING THRU CR. WILL
ADVISE WHEN SUBJ PLANS RETURN MEXI,
END OF MESSAGE

 ¢/3 COMMENT: REQUESTED NOEMAYR'S ETA,” :
i *ENOEMAYR AND FAMILY WERE IN BUT EXPECTED TO ARRIVE) VERY SOON,

"REPRODUCTION BY. OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.



poe

a

fees see : “_CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
; 372/Ke/AP/HP/

ROUTING
pate 17 Jul 59 , i
TO | DIRECTOR 7 3
JUL 9 01292 59

FROM = MEXICO CITY

‘ : IN 37896

REQUEST ETA NOEMAYR.
ROEMAYR,

i REPRODUCTION BY, OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

SAND WFO DIR CHE MEX? 103

ise yy Pa a

Copy No.



SECRET

30 June 1959 par

HERORANDUM FoR: WH/III/Mexieo —
SUBJECT:

1. Reference is made to your request to this office dated

——ALaprtiesa

2. The reply to your request 1s contaired in the attached
wemurandum from the Office of Security dated

. Chief, CI/0A

oof /67F1

SSS 389 ure previous sorrow. SECRET ae

‘eta atnenn sateen etme ane

rm



gpeee

: S-E-C-R-£-T a
— (When Filled In)
29 JUN issy
" MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, CI/OA
FROM : Deputy Director of Security (Investigations
and Support)

SUBJECT 1 C=25507
#112569

1. Reference’ is made to a mezorandum dated 17 April 1958 from
WH Divieion. through CI/OA requesting that the Covert Security Approval .
granted on 3 July 1957 be amended to permit Subjectts utilisation as
& career agent in Mexico City under Project LIEDGE. ©

Thio will confira the verbal Covert Security Approval granted
to Mr. Larry Sule, WH Division on 3 June 1958 for the use described
above],

4

2. In accordance with the provisions set forth in Clandestine
Services Instruction No. 10-5 and Clandestine Services Instructicn -
Fiela No. 10-5, a covert security approval is granted for the use of
the Subject, as described in your request as set forth in paragreph 1,
above. : :

3. Subjects of covert security approvals are not to represeat
themselves as, nor are they to be represented as, employees of CIA.

4. Your attention is called to the fact that a covert security
approval does not constitute complete compliance with the provisions
of CIA Regulation 10-210. Therefore, if you should desire at a later
@ate to change the status or use of this individual, a request for
approval to cover any proposed change should be submitted to this
office.

5- This approval becomes invalid in the event the Subject's
services are not utilized within six months of the date of this
memorandun.

FOR THE DIRECTOR OF SECURITY:

4

8-E-C-R-E-T



pPsere. ss Bete
/y ra : =\ ASSIFIED MESSAGE en

| sebecenetet Lh i

2| F

DIRECTOR 2] ‘ E
MEXICO CITY i
JUN 16 03422 59 H

WHS : a

s/o 2 ROUT ENE

af t
IN 2ghk7 i
j
a 1
(Priority) sans NYO DIR ~ cue yext 4017 i
1, NOEMAYR AND FAMILY DEPARTED MEX! FOR SAN 1 JUNE BY LACSA. i
—— el

2, WILL PHONE COS| USING NAME ROGER. ease Ts

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER TH,

END OF MESSAGE

THE ISSUING OFFICE 1S PROHIBITED. Copy Ho.

Sater eeeeee erceegeeeeeeeeeeeen



CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

>
2 DATES.

SECRET

TO. | DIRECTOR

EE Fling (edeck cont
ceo eite No CS feed Value, Nest.

j UL fe bis cov a8 tndictet
; ACTION: WHOS fee

FO ' C1, Ct/oPs, ct/oa, s/c 2

7 Cig
DIR MEX!

REF MEX! 3931 (IN21594 © )

CONCURS WITH REF PLAN.

C/S COMMENT: © REQUESTED HOS APPROVAL NOEMAYR AND Fane oe]

ROUTING

RuyA

SANJ 3375

IN 23195

INITIAL

OEM 4389 Cp tneroce

‘*=m#>REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE'ISSUING OFFICE Is PROHIBITED.

DeptersriY
- Copy No. at

v7



cpm

a

tte A

paren

663 Es/sis pO» [owt ~\ _ CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

FROM

CONF:

ito: C1~Ci/ops, Ct/tc, c1/oa, S/c 2

to

SECRET

6

* MBXICO CITY

: DIRECTOR

)

MExT
REF:

|

jooceeco ay 27 1b 49355

TAROT ARS.

youre (3.20"D CABLE SECT.

PRIORITY

INFO

MBXI-393L (IN 2159h)*

QS CONCURS PROPOSED RECRUITIENT PITCH AND TRAVEL REF.

HD COMMENT:

RACTIVE COSTA RICAN CP NENBER,

XY POSGRS TRAVEL 1.

NOEHAYR #70 FANTL

END OF MESSAGE

"Od CARETAKER OF NOEMAYR

COORDINATE WATH:

wmfon/s_

> kre, CAM

Asinc offices

* REPRODUCTIO

SUGGEST NOSMAYR BE AUTHORIZED ATTEMPT RECRUITMENT OF BROTHER-IN-LAW,

HOUSE IN SAN JOSE.

SANJ FOR PERSOWAL #EASOHS OF 1y JUNE.

De/-/6r xr
(BY Fx0:3) fe

Teitpsss

Tine OFFICCE

Copy No.



ee .
5 LASSIFIED MESSAGE a
955 €8/088 peo? CASSIE!

Dare x6 MAY 59” | SaE-C-R-E=T

oO DIRECTOR

+ FROM : MEXICO CITY HE Pog crea eo:

No CS ecard Valve, Pasty.

sa Li

ACTION: WH 5

; + C1, C1/0PS, Ci/or, s/c 2 fh ar
ee ee a |
j ;
1¥ 21594 = i
oir TS Seanad STE MEXE 3931
|
aT ) (WARE ACTING) enna)

RE A, HMMA 12436

B. HRSW 1705
°C. HRSA 3915

1, RE PARA 2 REF oe ee PROBLOM, REQUEST Has :

. CONCURRENCE. j |

PR,

2. QUE LEGAL ACTION REQUIRED FOR NOEMAYR “OWNED HOUSE. SANJ, HIS PRESENCE

NECESSARY SANJ OURING NEXT MONTH. HE _ FAMILY wite ALSO UTILIZE TRIP THERE TO :
RENEW TOURIST STATUS WHICH ABOUT TO pric Laue TAKE ‘TWO OR THREE WEEKS LEAVE. IF : !
: RECRUITMENT PITCH AGREED TRIP WOULD _FROHIDE EXCELLENT OPPORTUNITY eco OPN, :
UNDER DESIRABLE COVER CONDITIONS. naa?

3. NOEMAYR AND FAMILY ETD FOR SANJ 14 JUNE. REQUEST APPROVAL HQS|
SOONEST, TRAVEL FUNDS AVAILABLE IN PROJECT LIEDGE.

END OF MESSAGE

: ‘ iy
a ee

ING. OFFICE IS PROHIBITED. Copy No. an”

1 Paxrny

ORM 1389 *dtemooucnON By @

we ate Leen at



_ paresctcas htZ \ CLASSIFIED MESSAGE | =

bons : :
{ONT ° WHD | SECRET ar n ae cue
; OT: 2555 z ? 3 pt
s_DATE : 29 APRIL 1959 at Tet

eresrec| Aer 23 2 17259 :
"D CABLE SECT.

aay

| 10 = ypxtco erry

| From: DIRECTOR ROUTINE
i

i cone, WS Paley

{ INFO; OP 2, S/c 2

was

OPERATIONAL
IMMEDIATE

INFO CITE OR

“CAREER AGENT,

ye MEXT 24246

i REF: MEXI 3786" 2heh6

j ‘

i REF QUARTERS BEUEFITS NiZD Wor DE INCLUDED CONTRACT. CUIrPRACT

| STATES QUARTERS IN ACCORDANCE GOVT REGS, COS IIAS AUTHORITY GRANT POR at
H i

| |

END OF MESSAGE

WH CQM‘2NT:

REQUEST HS AMEND PARA 4 NOZ:AYR CONTRACT,

*(1N 10582)

ep. OS RS ea ee Dol. 65 OTF

COOtOINATING OFFtcERS

GS, Pi
fh 1st, PLE ezente
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED. .

gortsace


_ : ¥ RECA CTE.
i or6 es/ossfuurr[an —. CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
{ i
(DATE, 29 APR 59 [___s-c-c-r-£-1 {

110 + DIRECTOR
i #ROM =: MEXICO CITY

| ACTION: WH 5

; Info: OP 2, S/C2 ROUTINE
In 10582 i
ro) DIR info cite MEX! 3786 k
i
(WARE ACTING) :
i
RE HMMS 726 /

REQUEST HQS AMEND PARA 1) HAROLD R, NOEMAYR ‘CONTRACT PERMIT FR 115-1050
BENEFITS RETROACTIVE TO 1 AUGUST 1958. {
END OF MESSAGE

Dor et FT)

ICE 1S PROMIBITED. Copy Ha

t



DiPAIn wD we

Chief, WH Division

INDEFING CAN BE JUDGED
BY QUEUFHED HO. DESK OMY

correct

2. BgH-6220, dated 11 Juss 1953
B PW-7509, dated 13 Feuruary 1999
3. ES 7807, Gated 6 March 1959

i

t
pe.
if
he
i



i .
1 ‘CONTINUATION OF
; DISPATCH
F
|
1:
i
!
i
i
|
i
H
H
i

Ga eees e oo 4
wy 53a here me
ws Sie Sion and 3129 eontaann 2 1


FOS IT

t




|

Eee

4 cae 2 ACE

DISPATCH | mer omaseey:

AUD,

aaa TES
Chief, 60 Division

Chief of Station,

FR
OM nie? of Station, Mexico City

aa

a
Proposed Vesta Rises CP Penctretica

NO DEEN #LQUIFED.

ACTON wEGUIED INDEFING CAN BE UDGED.
BY Quart ED HQ. DESK ONLY

REFERENCES

1, As recorded tn Reatquarteris rr cg coRneno
Calderon, Coste Aizen, residing in Saa Juaa Tibas, oF Pat 2a, AS OBIE G
mosber of the Sosts Rican OP. Mario's first loyalty hed been to the CALSCIOTLIZA party,

tat gince the latter vas allied with the CP, o great deal of recruitmact hed tacen place
within the allegiasse. Kerio drifted fras cP atlitansy shortly after tho 1945 revolution

2 Le the oxganization 6d desiras, oll the factors are praseat for the resrultment
of Karis and xotera to 2P militancy vith « low to medias loval pexetsution ee the
objective. ‘These factors are as follows:

@ Berio CSDENO bas bees canrtaker and therefore Living in
house in Coote Rise for the past vo yemra. On tup ozcasicas during visits
im 1956 axd.997 converged at sume length vith Mario concoraing the
festa Rican CP. Mario Indicated very exphatically that be wa disgusted vith
the: (party leefers) because of the corruption.

be Letters received from Mario during the past year have iad{ieated no
change 4a this attitute. Marlo 17 oxtrenely grateful to for this
a ee ae (Marlo is 6 ahsesaher of bumble
means).

3. @ reasonably certaia that Hario COMMZNO would accept cuch an offer
an rei OP militancy without security prodlecs. It is telisved that with
@ Uittle guidasee and aanipalesion, Horio could become s media Level penetration with
a relatively chert time. \nile not kaving are than at clenestary nicl etucation,
Kerio is @ stolia type: simtere anf dateraiined in his ova way. Ome eatisfied that bo
could taprove his lot hy this service, be would Jand a otesdy ond relianle service.

Willard C. COWTS

ool- lo FEF

ues atone race NO.
rome USE PEEROUS LOTION, graagncai



_ ~ —

- DISPATCH

; SSSA

i Chief, WH Division

Loco

t iL

[FROM 5 ; mala ee ah
Chief of Station, Mexico City « 1 March 1959 :

Bea” — (CHECK “8 ONE)

Harid R. KM MARKED Foe INDENING i
HO INDEXING BEQUIFED fe
cnc ear INDELING CAN Bf JUDGED |
BY QUALIFIED HO. DESE ONLY _
erences .

It is requested that the Station be sent a copy of the original contract for
Harold R. NOEMAYR erd a copy of each amendment thereto.

e ohGG

8 March 1959

Distribution:
3 Kgs
2 - Files

ag ERTS Ustene erm cercene eae Ro mums tentcreded eae NSS Westineeneetenem yeimeemig Senne rneytietimnmnes tim tien asm nh neem mentite nt mn

sh

Dor serve

USKALOR HAGE NO.

span anennatntnne ose


DISPATCH

tet, WB Divieton

INDEXING CAN BE 1UBGIC.
ay au. a Lise ONLY

i, Attaubed, par HesAquartert inetrintions in referance Be, are the required
Vecusate fra Harelt Ry KAMA agylying for telmoursenent for medical treateant
j TI eA by dle dependant daaguter. Thasa Loclute ror 1126, receipts for payments
aadte ait @ elatement frog the attanding physictas ug to the treatm gives. The
suvet ter‘ stotenant merely indioster thet ue privided medical sare and a Dlopay,
vittent delving iuto the uaturs of the Linas, hiv Alvgnoeis or speo!fic treatment.
re, Su7MAYR wee unable to obtain any furtuar declaration from the plgwiclan and
secursty aoneiderations provanted bar from becuming more damending oa this point.

Tf Se: Squarters requires a more elaborate otatement, would it bo pamtesable
. for SSMATK to aartify aa to the alosing empecte from tha physician's atatenent?
4; mo other documsat of thia nature io avaliable. :

i Ki/ape : 7 : nee

Attechibent - ag stated above - recetpte t/3/¢ : : :

Flo Haren 1959 ee He seen eee eines

Lesetoation:
37 age watt
@ + Plins

i
{
!
i
j
7



en feoeeroumaniomeesn Sra aaymmarmeaee a eee henna Naan sen

sea “ASBLSE/ CLASSIFIED MESSAGE ~~, ie
ante A iW ROUTING : .
nm WHY T/C7R | “SeE-0 RET | : oh

ex; 2, $
Lave, 25 FEBRUARY 1959 E
id a — 7; i
MEXICO CITY : oerekeeo) 809 19 15284 :
oe et rouine| 2ES'D CABLE SECT. I
: 5} aaa : seed
WHS 3 - £ PRIORITY
ef ortrationat | ™4s
oh cuiors, FI, F1/OPS, PP 2, PP/PRO, PP/PROP 2, |€ IMMEDIATE 2 i
Sk zt |
QUT7S958
fied ro HAVA care oie TAI6S

RE NEXI 3392 (IN 22960)"

1. ON BASIS HAVA AND ODEKVY REPORTS ON HOGAN HUS PREFERS KOT IiPROVE

IL, CUBAN OFFICLiL In

HIS CHANCES SECUKING CUBAN ACCOUNT. ACCORDING &
HGS AREA 20 FEBRUARY, AN ACCOUNT HAY GO TO EITHER OF TWO FIRS IN PBPRIME

WITH WHICH KUBARK HAS CONTACT AND ELTHER OF WHICH WOULD SERVE ODYOKE INTERESTS
“BETTER THAN HOGAN.
2. HONEVER, IN EVENT HOGAN BEATS OUT OTHER CO!TENDERS IT COULD BECOME

REQUEST
ADVANTAGEOUS HAVE KUBARKER IN HIS GROUP, DEPENDING ON NATURE OF ACCOUNT, THEREFORE/ i
NOEMAYR ATTEMPT KEEP JOB OFFER OPEN WITHOUT COMMITTING HIMSELF TO HOGAN: AND

THEREBY STRENGTHENING LATTER'S HAND WITH CUBANS, USE CAUTION IN TOUCHING ON ep
WEAK ASPECTS NOSHAYR COVER STORY WHICH COULD HE CHECKED Oti BY HOGAN.

3. MICKEY IS GEORGE MICHAEL KAPPES, ABOUT 24, U.S. CITIZEN WHO HAS

ie

WORKED WITH HOGAN SINCE LATE 1958 :
(END OF ey ;

vs

_ Wi Comments ‘Woemayr received letter dated 1 Feb from "Mick
for job with Don Hogan, who hopes to get lente Gana
tions contracts with C1

S-E~C-R-E-T at
* REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE.IS PROHIBITED... Copy No.

Dol (6FTT)

AUTHENTICATING OFFiCeR



'
I

~ “ :

aves i ~§

ol i

: \ Wom H

SECRET 2 ( i

i co) ie
WEXORANDUL FCR: Chior, Wi Division im i
ita 0} a
ATIIRICN —ya/TTT/rexico er i
SUBJECT _ Cover Review ~ Harold Noenayr (P) '
i i
i |
| -
ea
‘ :
| eeee
| :
i (iter
i '
ae
|
|



C !
:
: 4 !
Bo, ; |

= :
eo -_
8 oe

: ww
| }
{
i
i
g
: a
| 4

a
uve


DISPATCH

RERDSUARTOS Fad WS,

12 Chief of Station, Mexico City

200

TRO : ae pare ;
Chief, vi [1G Yurrrarep,

aa es Senne by ence Hes
Raroid R. BOZMAYR

feenvahecies INDEKING CAN BE J20GED_
Gee below BY QUALIFIED HQ. DESK ONLY

REFERENCES) ins
HBo-585 - —

1. In onswer to your queries of reference, ve wish to direct your
attention to FHB 20-600-1, dated 28 Hoveber 1958, viich-provides darormation
on overseas medical benefits evailebie from KUBARK. Thio new handboos should

"be of great heip in the future on questions of this nature es it sets forth

im one place EUBARK provisions for eaployee and dependent medicak benefite,
together with the procedures required.

2, Section 20 of the handbook specifically states that Career Ageats,
if they are full-tixe enployecs and citizens of PAPSIME, nay receive all
netical benefits available to Staff Euployees. ection ja also specifically
ptotes that Career Agents, if they ore full-time emloyess and citizens of

FBPRIME, are eligible to receive the benefite of the KUDARK depeadent somiical

progres.

3. We suggest thet Subject forward to Heatquarters recoipte for his
dependent wedical expenses, together with a statement frau his physician
ettesting to the nature of the iliness, oie diagnosis end treatzent. Subject
should also execute Fors to. 112% as cequzoted in Section Sa of the bundbook.
¥e will subait the claim to the Office of Personnel for their reviex and
éetersination of any allovable reisbursement. A

ae 201-168 88}

USE PREVIOUS FOMON. cussseation '

peare.



i
!

10

we cans] res LL MESSAGE 7”
13, JAN 59

ROUTING

DIRECTOR
NA
see ROUTINE
. IN WT
PRITY MEXI se CUE DIR ecu on Hava $893

| woenaye ETD HAVA 13. JAN 1715 CMA 30S. ETA MEX! 264.

END OF MESSAGE

: Dos 68 Ts

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHBITED. Copy No.

i
i
'
t
i
fF



ROUTING:

mAE MOM Ame

UAMEDIATE

"F50879

ck 07614

| ga pefoiost = CLASSIFIED_MESSASE
ORIG) i eaanatre
uN Wit SECRET
i em, GO8L fa | esses
DATE | 10_JARJARY 1959
To . HAVANA -
ftom, DIRECTOR
i conr, WH 5
p to, fe 2
H
i
f7O BAVA nro EX /
i *
\ REF: BAVA 0872 (IN 45998)
H APPROVED.
}
i END OF MESSAGE
] “C/S COMMENT: “STATED STA FELT NOEMAYR JOB COMPLETED, WOULD HAYE HIM RETURN MEXI
; IF HOS. APPROVED. —
i
i
i.
t
i

oo

~ ro

BEPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

ve

** Copy Me,
Doi /6 8004

ayo |

i
t
1
ia
I

r
\



i: re
003, HN/DLO.“

/
foe. 89 JAN-59
j
10, + DIRECTOR =
2 ROM © tyAHA

Laction: «WHOS HH Div. noTIrtED 0100, 10 JAN 59)

Two 1 8/02.

: DIR bit

FEEL NOEMAYR JO!
i IF HQS APPROVES,

REPRODUCTION by

SECRET

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET

In 45998
MEXI : SM ava 9872
8 COMPLETED. WILL TELL HIM RETURN NEXT

END OF MESSAGE

‘OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED. Copy Wo.



me ' oe
934 tyro 4 aE : CLASSIFIED_MESSAGE
2 JANUARY 1959

DIRECTOR — : : Eilsprecre tases
ee : teats j 7oyk
+ avin a i M4 ee
wh 5 ( Jat issued Tenpo copy ozig |=” *EGU SECT.
| DUAN 59.
cop, s/f 2 PRIORITY
_ IN 43658
a nS a : aie
PIR SACU MEX! HAVA 895
RE: HAVA 796 (IN 433NB 0) &

7 - REBELS CANCELLED AUTHORITY. FOR FLIGHT ON WHICH NOEMAYR
SCHEDULED GO SACU, La
END OF MESSAGE

Dof-/6 779 T/
LU SECRET eee
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED. - ° capi ite

1



joerc sa ramet se adeRN ROE SOREN

EDAIE 5

ie, 6H CLASSIFIED_ MESSAGE or ee

6i taps [oS & eT

on vANUARY 1959 | SECRET —

DIRECTOR —

IN 43176

OP IM SACU NFO DIR MEXI ~ GE HAVA 775

NOEMAYR ETO HAVA FOR SACU 1 JAN 1538 CUBANA VISCOUNT.
—_—_—
END OF MESSAGE

sei ieter Vv

Ese “yb wr
AAP

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED. Copy No.



3

neo i ue
172 €8/Bu [$3 > _CLASSIFIED MESSAGE.
1958

ROUTING.

j cae. 36 DECEMBE!

to. DIRECTOR
from» MEXICO CITY

REC'D GABLE SECT.
ACT 6 :

wo + sia PRIORITY
: ee . IN 42835 i
ak eS NO PEAY DIR cit MEXT 3827 i

i : REF: MEX! 3925 (IN he393° )*

CORRECTION REF: FLIGHT 565 ARRIVING 1645.HAVA TIME,

: END OF MESSAGE ace
C/S COMENT: “NOEMAYR, TO LEAVE ¥EX1 30 DEC,

j
}

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICES PROHIBITED.



a : i
: CLASSIFIED MESSAGE [_
SECRET

cots oo “pad Lo

DATE + 30 DEC 58

«HAVANA

& ROMs DIRECTOR
Econ 2 WH >
INFO + CT -Ci/ors, ci/ic, Fl, FI/oPs, s/c 2

fas

37298
ot 518

HAVA i FO yer CIE DIR (82/5
REF HAVA 0746 (In 42224) © 06245
AMUETER :

ROBMAYR FA ROUTE HAVA CHA FLIGHT 565 WITH ETA 1645 HOURS 30 DBC. MAY
HAVE MISSED REF. IF SO, WILL DEVISE CONTACT ARRANGEMENT. CABLE HQS AND MExT
CONFIRMATION HIS ARRIVAL.

END OF MESSAGE

‘i c/s COMMENT: *CONTAINED CONTACT ARRANGEMENTS FOR NOEMAYER.

COORDINATING OFFICERS

|
i
| os |
|
|

SECRET
: Pecan
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS: PROHIBITED. Copy. No.
‘ - Der 16° 071

efmyr i



i

eo
i
; _ Sgae de eeettoraer eee
: fuer : ED MESS, yd einataee G i
152 we5/20- CLASSIFIED MESSAGE 7 [ z rouine | i
pate + 30 DECEMBER 1958 SECRET f :
7 ad : A
feo 3016 31558
ETO + DIRECTOR - 7 i
5 ; i
EB RROM | MEXICO CITY 9 a fF
L wH 6 i
: buat PRIORITY i
no , Sft2 . a ;
IN 423 j
i :
4. 70 OPIM HAVA INFO PRITY DIR cme MEXI 3 |
7 (WARE ACTI Jee
i i :
if NOEMAYR LEAVING MEX! 3@ DECEMBER VIA CMA FLIGHT 556 i :
pehatbeh : |
ARRIVING HAVA 1515 HOURS. WILL PHONE COS AT OFFICE. | :
! END OF MESSAGE j |
! i i
jong
[othe
| po
H {i
ie
i |

r re Nm SNe Ye SUL EN SmeNSR ESE

hun eine anne mantle

Fpnarn

i

oe

iE K

_ SECRET -o/-/6 5TF)
REPROCUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE 1S PROHIBITED, Copy No



_ DATE
: TO a
FROM +

INFO:

10

286 eD/t fied oe CLASSIFIED MESSAGE: 18
E29 DEC 58

OIRECTOR

ROUTING.

SECRET

MEXICO CITY
( WH DIV, NOTIFIED AT 1800 29 DEC)
1/ops, ci/ic, Fl, FI/OPS, S/c 2

PRIORITY

: IN 4agge
PRITY DIR INFO HAVA cite MEX! 3819
RE: DIR 6962 (OUT 57143 )* :
AMUTTER

1. NOEMAYR SUGGESTS FOLL PLAN:
—_——
A. AVOIO HAVA QUE SECURITY RISK.
B. ARRANGE U.S. NAVAL AIR TRANSPORTATION TO GUANTANAMO.

: yet C. HAVE REQUIRED SUPPLIES FOR TRIP ISSUED FROM NAVAL BASE

AND WHATEVER BRIEFING DONE HELD ON BASE.
2. NOEMAYR ALSO CONSIDERING POSSIBLE NEED THIS TRIP CARRY
SIDEARM.
3. ALTERNATE PLAN FOR SUPPLIES COULD BE PURCHASE LOCALLY
“NEXT AND CARRY TO JUMP OFF POINT NAVAL AIR IN U.S.
END OF MESSAGE ;

€3 COMMENT: *HQS REQUESTED HAVA ADVISE HEX! SUGGESTED ITINERARY AND CONTACT
ARRANGEMENTS. : :

Seer erep ire yateeec al
Dore 16 TT

«- REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED. Copp Nex -

j
i



mAZsOnAnas

MEXE 'NfO HAVA cme 06052

REP: .-, MERI 3006 (Ii 40908)
B. DIR 05525 (OUT 56079)

2. —- POSTANY AND NARCHMAN KOT AVAILABLE. TDY AS TEMPORARY REPLACPSNT
” NOEMAYR. WILL ETA MEXT OA 30 DEC THIS AsSTOmEN.

NOEMAYR SHOULD PROCEED HAVA OA 1 JAN AND INFORM WIFE.
2 POR HAVA: ADVISE MEKI SUOGESTED ITINERARY AND CORTACT ARRAMIRETS,

ERD OF MESSAGE

ye
Vr _

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED, Copy Ma,
: Sole lel Fey



7) CLASSIFIED MeSSAGE

: 350 80/uR/uRDM
i pare 2° 23 DEC 58 é
“yo DIRECTOR - _
= om» MEXICO CITY

acon: CH5} J Div, NOTIFIED AT 1725 23 ec}

iNro + C1 /0PS, FI, FI/OPS, S/¢ 2

ROUTING

SECRET

ro DIR INFO HAVA CME MEX! 3606

AMUTTER
REF: DIR 95525 (IM 56079 )*

1. NOEMAYR WILLING ACCEPT ASSIGNMENT PROVIDED:
A. WIFE BE INFORMED. ;
'B. SUITABLE TEMPORARY REPLACEMENT SENT MEX1.
2. STATION CONCURS NOEMAYRS OPINION. OPERATIONAL
CONSIDERATIONS NOEMAYRS AGENTS. MEX! REQUIRE OUTSIDE CASE
OFFICER THOROUGHLY ACQUAINTED LOCAL SITUATION, SUGGEST
POSTANY OR MARCHMAN TDY. ;
3. REQUEST CABLE REPLY SOONEST.
END OF MESSAGE

CS COMMENT: *CONSIDERATION BEING GIVEN NOEMAYR RETURN FIDEL CASTRO AREA.
DURATION AND NATURE MISSION SAME AS NOEMAYR'S TRIP LAST MARCH. QUERIED WHETHER
MEXI COULD RELEASE HIM FOR APPROX SIX WEEKS BEGINNING EARLY JAN.

TE sm cease cite ENE niece

: a Pars So/- 16 FE Ft
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE 1S PROHIBITED. Copy na



7 =. CLASSIFIED MESSAGE i
WH/tCartb [ SECRET oo
2056 =
20 Decenber 1958 é :
to , MEXICO CIry : perereeoifiee 20 18 2 | 258
E cans
FROM, DIRECTOR € REC'D CA3LE SECT.
: |
a 3 oe
cl, cl/ops, Ci/ic, Fl, Fi/ops, s/c 2 ij

eee tee e078
So MEKI Info HAVA CITE DIR. - 03525
05525

a

eRe 8 eee

WG CONSIDERATION BEING GIVEN NOEMAYR RETURN FIDEL CASTRO AREA. DURATION
AND ATURE MISSION SAMB AS NOEMAYR'S TRIP LAST MARCH, af TER CONSULTATION
N@EHAYR ADVISE FEASIBILITY THIS OP AND WHETHER STATION CAN RELEZASE HIM FOR
APPROX SIX WEEKS BOGINNING EARLY JANUARY

END OF MESSAGE

Dor /6rt Fy

ofaam , cooroiwatine onricers
Peeters) fest) pueveu Sotwenricarine ovssce

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED. Copy Mo.

a



“0 _ACLASSIFIED MESSAGE ; :
| ho opal {fea 5° SSSsssuasaeTesveasazeieial piscsssaisensnnaassia 2
G DECEMBER 19) SECRET

DIRECTOR
MEXIGO
MAB

Ct, ct/ops, s/c 2

feo 20 i 31250

Bt

ROUTINE

'N 39959

ae "REF: HAVA $666 (1N 36388. ) . =
: DIR 4579 (OUT 54018) * i

1. NQEMAYR DID NOT GO HAVA. ONLY WIFE AND CHILOREN “
; FOR PURPOSE RENEWING THEIR TOURIST VISAS, DISPOSING BULK OF
32° | HOUSE HOLD ITEMS “AND CARRYING BACK REMAINING SMALL ITEMS MEXI.
i 2, _NOBVAYR PLANS GO TEXAS EARLY JANUARY FOR VISA RENEWAL.
Tech cea END OF MESSAGE =” “a

C/S COMMENT: "REQUESTED REASON FOR NOEMAYR TRAVEL TO CUBA, LeNoTH OF sTaY AND’
WHERE HE CAN BE CONTACTED. :

"op. yoret

‘Copy No.

: SECRET

a) OTR NFO : oo MEXT 2988



poe

‘areapmmnatencreet secon niremannqecte amen iene

=) TA —— is ors
ect smi nl /..1” CLASSIFIED MESSAGE — -
: ia ROUTING)
ont: C/T, SECRET i ri
j + 399) 2 5
f__ghAte « ls Des 158 > 7
yo. MEXICO CITY, HAVANA 2] fowreaweoh leg | | 9 2] a8
: e er = se
{ from, DIRECTOR c| Xrourme| (ECD EARLE SECT.
H H amar
! cone: “HH 5 E PRIORITY
b ¢ OPeRationaL |™™T
‘ iro. S/C 2 E IMMEDIATE
!
i
}
i To «MEXT INFO HAVA CITE DIR
t : ; i oh579
i
\

ADVISE REASON NOEMYER TRAVEL CUBA, LENGTH STAY AND WHERE CAN BE CONTACTED.

END OF MESSAGE

_ or le erye Von
oe
{fF

COOEDIMATING OFFICERS

SECRET —
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED. Copy. No.

2



; na mofiepaQy” > _CLASSIFIED_MESSAGE
‘pare. 18 DECEMBER 1958 7-2 SECRET
‘yo: «DIRECTOR
mom. HAVANA
‘neva Seat?

HINO + ® COP, S/¢ 2

af suites pea SRS
a HH
é
0152258
REC'D CABLE SECT,

O3.

ROUTINE

i IN 36388
7 MEXI NFO Dik cite HAVA BO66
"RE: HAVA 482 (IN 41535) i

DIR 4g487 (ouT 71918)

one iia

| FYI: HAROLD B NOEMAYR AND FAMILY ARRIVED HAVA FROM MEX! 5
bo,

H DEC 58 VIA CUBANA 465.

i END OF MESSAGE

janet

H 20S COMMENT: ®DISSEMINATIO® APPLICABLE TO RYBAT CABLES,

i iq .

i

: ;

i
Dor /6 FET]

este ecayeageeaern 4 © enemy reams neriLayre Aan r

+." te REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED... Copy Mo pa

ae ee SS

ro


DISPATCH a ee

TO Catef, WH Divtstoa OTR FH

nao

aie

"Sick of Station, Mextoo City 10 December 1958
sini i navn ere cre cer
roid TARE Tos NOTE
ha ielaneain Se DEMAYE of Herold Re | ne
sates i Panne ones
S02 Parearapl 2 below,

FR 20-1000, paragraph 2, c,

1, Harold R, NOEMAYR, 6 Carcér Agent, ts tecurring medical expenses
from the recutred hospitalization and medtes!/surgics! trestment of one of bis
minor dependents, He wishes to know.tf he ts covered by insurance that includes

‘2 the above type of expenses for his dependents, ua

a © ts noted thar reference reguletios meatioas ta general terms that
Career Agents are usually entitled to die same benefits as Staff Employees,
However, since the Station does mot have a copy of NOEMAYR's contract, it
ts requested that Heedquarters check his persomel file to determine if he oud
his dcpendans are all covered by some manner of hospitalization plan aad, tf
80, what the exect terms are that thia plan covers,

Willard C, CURTIS
PCK/vps
8 December 1958

Distribution
3 Has

b

* Dot-/é reel

ge jensaas Seabees



CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET

ROUTING

nig’

a
2 om. DIRECTOR

CONF: Fo 2 H
Bro ites, 3/02 =e

i

QUTEISSS |

OUT 61565 :

7 ~~ i 36120 :
3 : : 5 }
i PAY NORMA’ 326.73 FOR SUMS DUE FRO! HRS THRU 12 JULY, EFFECTIVE » i
£ aa i
} FEEIOD ENDIEG 9 AUQUSE, DEPOSITS OF 113.70 WILL HR NADE £0 HIS BANK, i
| ERD GF HESSAGE. : “4 4

bie pert:
opie (5S SEGRE? | Gi fate

aueasing officer AUTMENTICATING ODFICER

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED. Copy No,
Jo/-/6 £3T/



| pane

12 Aqust 1958

IEHURANDUM FOR’ Deputy Director of Central intalligence

VIA Deputy Directer (Plane)

SUASECTs Commendation for

the sigmturs of the Dsputy Diroctor on tae enclosed eawendation ~

ia requested. It will be recalled that

mado an sutetand

Division in varch 1958.

- ing contribution to the intalligence mission of the Kestern Hand sphere

J. Cs KING
Chief

Western lienisphere Division

w/eAn| 12 August 1958

Distribution:
Orig. & 1 - Addressee
WY - Signer
1 - wHY/IIT

SECRET

8 Dor 70 FET)



” Distribution:

2k duly 1958

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Contract Personnal Mvision

- VIA 1 FI/0PS/Projects
SUBJECT 1 Herold R, EORAIR

Anondsent of Coatract

Forvarded herewith are tho signed original and one cosy of

an amondeont to Subject!s contract. This amendment was prepared

at Headquarters and forwarded to the Meld for signature,

Subject is a career agant in Project LIEDGE.

WH/2/Mexico/LSule:ngs

. Orig & 1 ~ Addressee
1. = Mexico Chrono
1 = Subject



2 509 St/se/st/

unt,
BT: 9957 ce .
DATE 312 JULY 1958
ee
TO + mexIco CITY i
FROM + DIRECTOR

CONF, WHOS

INO + op 2, S/c 2

TO "8 ygger INFO

REF: DIR 31132 (our 99075) *
BORMATR ARRIVING FLIGHT 69 AMERICAN 13 JULY.

END OF MESSAGE

CS COMMENT: *NOEMAYR RETURNING 12 JULY.

Ser /t rahi

i weGe MCLG VIL. AETHIRTICATING GINGER
ine +. REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE IS PROHIBITED. Copy No.



| we ee : i _ Dos GF FTI
| Wty. cootsmarme ores

weary

2 ome.
uNT : WH/IIT,
eT: 2558

j DATE + 11 JULY 1958

To "+ wsxico crry
“FROM + DIRECTOR

CONF + WHS
INFO. OP 2, S/C 2

|

“TO INFO CITE DIR io

ee

oat
HOEMAYR RETURIING 12 JULY.
——_
- END OF :L:SSAGS

K

SECRET i

RECEASING OFFICER ncaa

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED. Copy Na.

tet CSS oe

iy Rinne ngishidn Lina Annee re ent

ro


7 a so, : . es : : i

CREO tia ca Sta BO

via: _AIR ee DISPATCH KO. : foe

SECRET

CLASSIFICATION

10: Chief, WED wpe. DATE: 9 Joly 1956 : iq

FROM: Chief of Station, Mexico City INFO: Finance Division H .

SUBJECT: Genenar— Ada{ nistrativo iat
srecinic— Contract Anentnent = Harold R. MEMAYR

ACTION REQUIRED: For your files
=: REFERENCE 2 PlbWn6481, 19 Jun 58

Por referenced dispatch, ware formarding herewith subject's
contract amendment, sigmd as requested. We have retaimd a

0/ jez

i Attachnent:
1 & 2 ce's contract

7 July 1958
Distribution:

3 - Chief, HD, w/atts o/s
1 + Finance Division, w/o att

SECRET

CLASSIFICATION



H
j
{
i)

iM. Harold R. Noemayr

i
eDear Mr. Noemayr:
5 i
Reference ie M4de to your contract with the United States Government,
|g represented by the Contracting Officer, effuctive 1 June 1957, as amended.

i
mall ij Effective | May 1958, said contract, as amended, is further amended in

ithe following manner: :

a a. The first sentence of aub-paragraph (b) of paragraph

| four (4), entitled “Allowanceo," is revised to read ae follower
i :
i

“In addition to the above payments, you will bo entitled

alization allowance co:nputed in conformance with
applicable Government regulations and policies. (For your

“information, tho equalization allowance for Mexico City is
presently $000. 09)"

b. The following ov>-paragraph 19 added after sub-paragraph
(c) of paragraph five (5), entitled "Travel"; :

“(d) For you, your dependents, your personal automobile
and your houschold effects between permanent poste of
assignment,"

i
"| All other terms and conditions of the contract, as amended, remain in
fait force and effect.

t

You will please indicate your approval by signing in the epace provided
low.

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

i BY
i i Contracting Officer

Jacceptep;
|

LA,
WITNESS: (tt, a, WMarcbmar.

APPROVED:

_ SECRET

Xx



Heat ee marr ROL~ LG EBEL
zr CLASSIFIED MESSAGE 6
ERB /sw/RFL,

a
DATE 255 gas 1958 [ *SECRET

ROUTING

ai

ai

da 2 $9 68,58
Agcy cuit

(8 Record Value, Desitoy. —
PI ie W218 copy as Indicated

To + DIRECTOR
APOMIIT MERI COG UNYitut acerca

79
ACTION © V5 ravens WEEE

INFO cOP, Ci, C1/OPS, FI, F:/oPS, S/c 2

IN 49957

10 OPIM DIR INFO HAVA aie MEX 1692

RE: DIR 29626 (OUT 95479 )«

NQEMAYR LEFT MEX! AMERICAN AIRLINES FLT 158 1115 HRS 2 JULY.
ARR WASH AMERICAN AIRLINES FLT 114 2345 HRS 2 JULY. PLANS STAY

DUPONT PLAZA HOTEL.
fa END OF ea

C/S COMMENT: *REQUESTEC HAROLD R NOEMAYR a IMED FOR CONSULT PRIOR

TOY CUBA TO. REESTABLISH CONTACT FIDEL CAS;

* CLASSIFICATION ASSIGNED BY WASH SIG CEN.

boas

_ REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED. Copy No

* 41389



pereaiat
}
! “S_CLASSIF:ED_MESSAGE
og! ERB/RG
DATE +45 JUN 1958" 54 GONFIDENTI AL

a

TO DIRECTOR

} ee
BROW. MEXICO CITY Eeorereul eat
j ACTION FO 3

i; DO. Fifos2, wih, s/c2, oP 2
i

—

i

ro mR wo oe ext 4746
DTEARN

HAROLD R. ‘NOEMAYR AND DEPENDENTS ARRIVED MEX! 7 JUNE.
H PLS ADVISE FIELD ALLOTMENT AND EFFECTIVE PERIOD. : : : ‘

END OF MESSAGE

x

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED. ‘Copy No.



ROUTING

Vel

FROM + PIRESIOR.

INFO + op 2, s/c 2°

TO- weer INFO.

“RB MEXT 1608 (TI 32423)"

NAME. WILL CALL HARCHEI OFFICES IP VIABLE FE
as wets tea. | EXD OF MESSAGE

(CS COMMENT: *REQUESTED NOEMA'R ETA. |

Deafose “AL IS bassengse ¢ Peew |
dae [mex MAL ISG 135 ~1¥32 F Ten]

eat rn KING, ory
Aftiasing crrice ve
aenastiey _MPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE RSUING OFFICE 1S PROHIBITED. Copy No.
Dor. (G¥SS

E
‘i:



PERSONAL DOCUMENTS FROM



SATE USE RaCMr a

Boe be ane eS

i
!
sore ———— |
j
|

PLE NUMnee F

sh: : | RouTINe-T SAFE SOF
: ROUTING | DATE OUT i

Be “DATE ur wanes zed

he

5.

LOCATOR AND CONTROL RECORD | 3
tg

late dissesination of inforzetioa revit ewed:

Do you conten)

[7] +0 fiete

[1] to enotzer US Governnent Age: if so, to ¥202)

peieeipeieseiseste
e infornetion,

the Office

any Office of Security investiset:
pust be coordineted with crf Je

The éissenination of
including FBI reports,
of Security.

Cozments?

DO NOT REMOVE THE ATTACHED FOLDER FROM ci/raa/ca

Arr 3230 SECRET






< oe Le Saine erosasinntse
Y FeRsONTUn. *
ya on
? mI t
2 iret emt rromioiti—t
 aovanceeory [J ssuco [_] tor Po as no
pees i CLASSI 10 HIRE 60 ae
i ener TO FILE NO.
1 orssew ov A Sta 2 rue mo Gace 10 onanen pestaor U) s10.
Peer x il an cor |
1 ghee ie ea ae
Saestesae FG. Z Le tlle. [4
: SECRET 6520522 WAY 63 CITE JHYAVE 2253 3h $8203837

m

weK1CG CITY INFO DIRECTOR ,|

TYPiC AMICARUS
: i‘ REP? 609% DISPATCK 6572 (OT SENT MEXICO)

. le REF REQUESTS CERTAIN STATIONS LOCATE CONTACTS
LF

BENTS TO CBTALN ASSESSMENT @MICARUS/1

SSIBLE ACCESS &:

(DEN TO HEXICO ONLY). +
Caan

2. WHILE VISITING MEXICO CITY MARCH 66, (Aric ee RT 1 7

HET GRLANDO DE JESUS (VENTURA) REYES ,CUZAN EXILE DOCTOR

AV FORMER MEMBER 13 MARZO DIRECTORIO REVOLUCIONARIO.

VENTLA, DPO3 15 SULY 31, SANTA CRUZ DEL SUR, CAMAGUEY,

PRRIVED MEXICO ciTy 17 WOV 87, RESIDES APT 1, CALLE Z
VENTURA WAS CLOSE FRIEND JOSE

iz, COLONIA CONDESA.
ANTONIO CECHEVERRIA) BIANCHI, CONSICZERED MARTYR BY
HER 4

DIRECTGRIO, AND WAS CLOSE FRIEND AMICARUS/1 AND Wy
ree4 10

141056
DIRECTORIO LEADERS. VENTURA ARRESTED DURING eae TRIAL
@ND SENTENCED TWO YEARS FOR ANTI REGIME ACTIVITIES.

ANCONCERT/1 BELIEVES VENTURA WILLING COOPERATE

jee 3.
IN ORDER

i tk WOFIRM BUT NOT ¥ITH CUBAN EXILE GROUPS.

| SECRET



;
H

ER OF ts Cory prominin ne
wore () vrs D no 5

to}
He ae 4 ceassuy 10 Fue KO
were. 10 fue wo
rat mo Dace. v0 seamen sears Deve

2 JMVAVE 229252 CR ET

SATISFY HQS REQUIRESE.

OSTAIN INFO DIZECToRIO LEADERS,

SEXICO WAY WISH ESTASLISH DIRECT CONTACT FOR DEBRIEFING.

AL JaVAVE TRACES SHOW VENTURA ANTI COMMUNIST DOCTGR

WHO PLANNED DEFECT 1864, WORKED FOR CLEAN GovVT AS MEDICAL
SOCTUR, WAS IN EXILE MEXICO CITY 1558 WHERE

RRESTED FOR ANTI

SATISTA ACTIVITIES AND WGK

WITH GUSTAVO (ARCOS) BERGNES
Ll 26TH JULY MOVT WEXICO. :
SsECRET

BT :



—___I3| ~-'te
, LRA Et rs COPY PROKIGIT! ASRS ISSSSEEESESSOSSESS5SS5°5
" Tormencory LJance []nonen pene ace ronene e

’ | max O ws Dino
{

CLASEHY TO FILE HO.

pgp. ae » EO
~ SALE ugg Ox Cafes

19 Ex Bs fair x, Cashew 2 /
SECRET 9322522 2 CITE Juvavé 2291 3loy t82 03842

r~)

! Mexico CliY

(eta TYPIC aNIcazus :
16292

steave 2259 C8 ©3937)

IDENTITY: Wu to Ga

ERA, CUBAN AMBASSADOR

EY

£RZ0 DIRECTORIO.

eYH VIET NAM AND NEN3E
a

Ea

sic

: BI



4
Ya arene

hot
For Plot to Kill Castro.

{HAVANA (AP) — A former|Cubelas said. “T simply fell into
: aban army majer has asked a|the hands af the enemy.
; fevolutionary twibuaal to sen-| “II have to die, T will dott
| fence bim to death beeause he| yelling, “Viva la’ revolution,
| Breed to shoot Prime Binister|fatheriand er dealht we’ call
Fidel Castro, win”
1 2. "To the wall. Tobe executed,
£19) Mat is what T want.” Rolando] Death Asked for Three
“4p, ¢Subelas told the tribunel yester-| At the opening of ths tral io
Y fay

La, cabana prizon fortress
He snd six other Cubans are{Prosecuier Jorge Segura asked}
: on trial accused ot plating foie death penalty for: Cubeloe,
‘ i assassinate Castro with the U.S, |former Maj. Ramon Guin, Jose
: 7 Central Intelligence Agency and|Gonzalet Gallaretta and Alberto|
H Cuban exile “leader Manuel|/Blanco Romariz,
! Artime, He asted 30-year prison terms
H 2 I was the victim of my/for Juan Alsina Navarro, Guil-
and contradictions,” erm Cuail Alvases end Angel
“Guin is charged with knowing
about the plot, concealing it and

: Hs
j | Schirra Ponders _|svyinefer be cia.
:

Settling in Perth |sersnced Sin ts jeat fete
persia to Join the pl
ettling in Per during a meeting in Madrid on|
PERTH, Australia (AP)|Christmas Day, 1961. He sald
American astronaut Waller M.|that in February, 1963, Artime|
| Schirra Jr. says be is seriously! gave him a high-powered tele,
considering seting in Perth scope and a silencer for his rifle,
‘when be is through with outer| and he agreed to shoot Castre!
space, from & distance of sbout 800):
H ONT Capt. Schira wod rl yards
i force Col. Frank an
: 7 orbited around the capital af| ‘Ta Hands of Enemy?
frestern Australia today, meet-| “This was a cowardly act,” he
af | 4g political and civie leaders| said, “I fell in the hands of the!
i : and other residents of the “City/enemy.””
i of Lights." Cubelas said the meetiog was!
Perth is the site of a tracking| arranged bv a Cuban resident of
Station for US. space flights| Madrid and by Odon Alvarez de|
and puts on Es lights when|la Camps, a former counselor so
American astronauts fy over the| ihe Cuban embassy in’ the|
i Spanish capital who defected in
Six-orb¥ flight Oct. 3, 1962,|March, 1958
Tadioed tho station that he had] About 53) persons, Including
the his/Cuban and foreign ‘newsmen,
orbit. jattended the session of the trial.

The Evening Ster— The Sunha
aon ormce £3 Veg ar aE STAR REEBAEES CO
Bieres aaron Stes fe oe

2} "eorpa sures

londea SW 7, taglond, 122 Old Brompton BA,

:
é
el
i



negotiate peace, and tet war
stand aside while the people of}

Two Ex-Majors
Arrested in Cuba
As CIA Agents

HAVANA (AP)—Two former!
Cubsn Army men, one of whom)
played a key role in Fidel Cas-
tro’s rise to power, have been}
arrested on charges of counter-
revolutionary activities for the
US. Central Intelligence;
Agency. |
‘Tee Interfor Ministry an-/

i
i

BAGS wanes Mae

nounced last night. that Dr. Ro-
Jando Cubela and Ramon Guin,
both former majors, had been
arrested for “actions which |
seriously involve them in coun.
ter-revolutionary activities” wi
- the CIAL. :
Cubela, a physician, has been|
director ‘of Havana's Fajardo,
Hospital Before the overthrow |

he was a commander of Cas-~
tre’s guerrilla forces in the!
Escambray Mountains, j
Alter Castro took over. he be-
came first president of the Fed-)

_* eration of University Studen
vs Bt Bavana University. ?
No information was given on)

of Fulgencio Batista’s regime, 4:

if
i



: a [ol ovo





RESIDENT JNWAVE AREA. = ee Seer

tweens ves Ono L ~ 0) i
sidad ier tate merual CUASSITIEO MESSAGE roman cortes A : :
‘ate nie tet aca SECRET EEE™ || cernooucrion enomisere>
sesteor Os Stetoareaty areas : :

: :

zi ae

: :
schioe TaTiNeE CORY cai aa 7

witileng x BQ RID COPY | Ch rssuse Dostersee Crvsee |
FILE RCH, calPeop, Cl ops ope 2 cae

SECRET 2522142 CITE JNVAVE 4286
DIRECTOR : 25 Nove 4465.46

TYPIC
REF DIRECTOR 53681
1, LEBRIEFING JUAN A. ORTEGA HERRERA AND JULIAN
PEREZ PARRADO AS WELL aS INTERVIEW WITH CAPTAIN OF SHIP
“CHIRICANO” WHICH PICKED UP ESCAPEES ESTABLISHED BONA
FIDES. LOW KEY EXPLOITATION OF ESCAPE STORIES ARRANGED
THRU aMHIM FACILITIES. pa wo1e@0

oe
2 CamuaSiep ReroRTED BY ESCAPEES TO BE WORKING aS
prisoff eee yea ASSISTANT ON ISLE OF PINES. SOME
AWERTCANS IYPRISON BUT NAMES NOT KNOWN. NO KNOWLEDGE
AMSOUR- 1.) OTHER NAMES RESULTING FROM DEBRIEFING WILL BE

REPORTED SEPARATE CABLE.

G-vegees a
3.  ESCAPEE! MADE AVAILABLE TO QKFLOWAGE AND LNYUMA
25 NOVEMBER. LNYUMA HOPES TO USE EVIDENCE OBTAINED FROM

PEREZ PARRADO AGAINST OSMANI NODARSE, ALLEGED CUIS AGENT

SECRET

i
i
i
{
I



INSTRUCTION SHEET: 28 SEP 1964

crrcorre exrcoite Fer
tnorees txorces.

sreceat covert wae
rguiny CHECK

ISSUE OPERATIOWAL APPROVAL, RCOUEST GREEN LIST

USSUE PROVISIONAL OPCRATIONAL APPROVAL REQUEST AESULTS FI/o bosstta arview

EXTEND POA FOR DAYS UNTIL REVICW F/G COLLATERAL INFORMATION

AEINstare pox ron pavs usTiL NeQuesy AESULYS TEcwMIcAL seese teats

Foasazo ATTACHMENT TO DIVIStoW REVIEW SECURITY OFFICE REPORT AT C1/OK

CANCEL PER DIVISION MEMO DATED REVIEW AT Ct/On

CANCEL PER C1704 KOTECE TO DIVESION REQUEST REVIEW OF ATFACKED REFERENCE)
(Beason checked below, of eee remarta) ADVISE CI/OA OF NATURE AND SLOMEFICANCE

Request at TRACES. re

REQUEST OPERATHCRAL AND DIVISION TRACES viene

peaurey Fiske maces notice | ter [ [ee viet

weauest a Fs Per
ree tt

oe ear iRED + PLEASE SUBMIT PRO It. IF, WITHIN 30 DAYS, MO FURTHER INTEREST Im SUBJECT
WAS BEEN INDICATED, POA SFLU BE AUTOUATICALLY CAKCELLED.

SFATLURE TO SUBMIT PRO II AS REQUIRED UNDER CSI NO. 10-5 OR TO INDICATE ANY FURTHER INTEREST Im OBTAINING avPeoual|
FoR THE OPERATIONAL USE OF suOJECT.



~
=
i
8
£

FEMOREDUK FOR 1 Chief, cI/oA
SUBJECT  AMLASH-} ¢-101080

1, Reference {9 rade to yaur "Request for Information" dated
‘aes 31 July 1964 concerning Subject.

i 2. The PRQ Part II on AHTPUNK=10 (201-142291) contains cortain

i errors which are being struck: AMLASH~1 ia mat a Keadquarters internal
asset, nor is ho running any internal group. The relaticnship between

i ANTRUNE=10 and aNIASH-1 ia a personal ono — they have been friends for

i Bany years. AMIASH-1 4s not doing snything whatecever at tha present tino
| inside Cuba which has anything to do with any FUSAEK operation, plan,
|

activitys in addition, he is not furnishing any Political or Foreign
Intelligence. A TOA wae requested on him in Juns of 1962 for reerultmant
# a8 4 possible defector. He returned to Cuba and hae rosured his career
as a surgeén. He is working with the cardiology department of the
Hanvel Fajardo Hospital. o

3. Station JMWAVE is being advised of the above.

a

Samuel Hal
ADC/H/SA
Distribution: i
Orig. & 1 ~ Addressee

Qkx c 16/080

* a S 9 ay / - :



_ SECRET ssaaaeettaceaaat

REQUEST FOR INFORMATION AND REVIEW

: © noe
~ MAYSA/I0S @ ie 7 a ‘
FROM: CRIEF, CI/OA fee SubsEeTs

-AMLASH/L

IN ORDER THAT FURTHER CONSIDERATION MAY BE GIVEN YOUR REQUEST FOR APPROVAL IN THIS CASC. tT 15 REQUESTEC
THAT YOU FURNISH THIS OFFICE THE INFORMATION CHECKED BELOW, OR REVIEW INFORMATION AS itOICeTED.

[sevice oF HinV7o vossite
te Teaets neviGa or #6, ofr. cowtunnGati Wias VF Cian

"[oreeationat ano O1VISION aaces Revicw OF Far REPORT AY ci/on
RESULTS OF TECHNICAL INTERROGATION REvigw OF ATTACHED REFERENCE

eaten cist : box] oreees (See Feaeriay

ver Lies TE ao Famat,

1, Statensnts in the PR Part II for AMTRUNK=LO (201-1229)
indisata that Subject is deing used, although POA expired and vas
eancelled on lk Novenber 1963, as the leader of a group including
AMTRUNR=10 9

“5 It 4s requested that a Division representative discuss
this case at CI/OA,



eos

t
A
eemcnsen te veh eae e : : 7 Be ke
| + ee i
i Git SECRET i
ie INSTRUCTION SHEED 0 =~ 31 Jue 1954 ; ‘
. (6/ 0&0
SET GP ExPEDITE eane COPEDTE FOr joare
set vr, fe Covent want oa ; 7

TSSUE OPERATEONAL APPROVAL REQUEST GREt® Last {

I; a i

Sri i

Son] Reinstare pox Fow ESULTS TEEWMIC AL a !

FoReaan to

Evice SECURITY OFFICE CONCURRENT WMO AT C1708

ieelerry Saniey

CANCEL FER DIVISION wLNO DATED NE : | Ear Toren :
: txaSnoelce to'Bivssien): NU | cnet i
: t

5 Tae

ruc

+ ates

“|'reSuest oPcRAivonas ano oly RACES x meee FO G,

- ; ;
neauest FEUD tacts = rorver [ee wor | fren
seours1 [eo

HAS BEEN INDICATED, POA WILL BE AUTOMATICALLY CaNcetLeD.

TFALLURE 10 SUBMIT PRO I} AS REQUIRED UNDER CSI NO. 10-5 OF TO INDICATE ANY FURTHER INTEREST 16 OBTAINING APPAOVAL|
FOR THE OPERATIONAL USE OF SUBJECT.
REWARKS

Wt/saflos :

t Sealemouts ca. th ROM ANTRUM ~Jo Cer—ry229) :
vndecats that Supyiel 1 eumntsactege evi tuush,
Lthaugh ¥o4 ~efperiot cuil was carulld ou + Mev b,
ca Khe hades Up rp hetudens AMTREK 2,

a Manin Ape ti tins eee

c So

a

epeeibene

Fy

