# 104-10418-10357

## Page 1

104-10418-10357

TO

I CHECK-CLASSIFICATION TOP AND BOTT

UNCLASSIFIED " LICONFIDENTIAL

CENTRAL' INTELLIGENCE AGENCY*

OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP

NAME AND ADDRESS

DATE

Chief/SR

Fu, 584803

SECRETA

INITIALS

2

4

ACTION

APPROVAL

COMMENT

CONCURRENCE

His nate

DIRECT REPLY

DISPATCH

FILE

INFORMATION

PREPARE REPLY

RECOMMENDATION

RETURN

SIGNATURE

Remarks: Attached la a chronological review of

the life of lee Harvey OstAnD prepared by

this office. Additional Infornation 1s being",

added to the biography as facts become avallable

tous, and a final copy will be forwarded toi

you when it has been completed!

FOLD HERE TO RETURN TO SENDER:

FROM: NAME, ADDRESS AND PHONE NO.

FORM NO.

2-61

237

UNCLASSIFIED :

Use previous editions

DATE

CONFIDENTIAL -

27 Dee 63

SECRET

(40)

# U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1861 0-987282

---

## Page 2

13-00000

2A2L

1961

Harchipr11

1962

June

1963

Spring

196)

20 May

2la October 1963

November 1963

azortly after OBNALD met Marina OSWALD

In Minnh, he ma hospitilized begsus

he had "sons trouble with ble enro

sometime in Jund, 1962g OULD vialter

the fort Worth Library whero a Fusater

Languago clane le conducted as o alvle

project. (SWALD sought the name of

persons he might use no references in

tying to find a job no a tramlater.

A Ford torth engleer who tenches the

class eatd that OSKALD: spoke lesten

Fluently but not erentloallro

FBI

ID

gondor of

Lage 9

ork 22me

FBI Interviet of

Marina OSHALL

4 Dee 1763

Sonatime in the enly part of Har, 1963,

OSWALD approached F. A. Wid lAb,

direstor of the Loulatana and Mastonippi

region fer the APICIO office for & Job,

New Teric 71meg

I Lecember 1963

OSWALD startod work as an olter and

Her Lorte Ine

maintenance min in a Nar Orleans

I Lenember 1901

coffee unrehone on 10 Hay but wis dismlooed

on 19 July for Incompetencde

OSWALD attended the UN Day rally on 25

Ostober 196J at which U. &. Ambasador

to the United Nations, Adles STEVEISON,

spoke:

Lash neton Post

7. Les ember

1963

At the tine of the assassination of

President Kennedy, OSWALD had beer

residing at 1026 M. Beckley Street, Dallas,

faras, under the nane of on he bia,

for a perlod of about five rooke.

FBI Intervies of

2j lovamber 1963

---

## Page 3

13-00000

DATE

1963

Atrho timo of his arrest OswALD min

carrying a vallet containing a

Selective Seylce eard in the man of

"Alek wamen HIDEsk," which bore

(Swalla phetograph

USERSCE

BBI Interview

•E OSNALD

23 107-1563

---

## Page 4

13-00000

Biography

Appendix A

Dopt

---

## Page 5

13-00000

1967

1948

2933

15

Decembes

at 195k

1.959

OSHALD attended the lily B. Clayton

Sphoel In Vert Worth, Texas, when him

mother nored fren lew Orloans, Londolans,

to Fort Worth.

ChAD entered the Forthllerth School Byaten

on 27 Jamary 19hT.

In 19tB, after her divorce tran lauda A.

Schoole

From 15 Decimber 1953 to 6 Jamary 195

Els irothars, Ime., an agency upectalliins

In providing adult male compunlombip for

fatherlenn bryn 10 to 16 yours oldy tried

to alet CHA:D, The wout mo torinted

when Suardie mother cuturned to hew Orleans,

Loutalan with her children.

OSHAYD' o Inst

day of attendance at schoal in lew Tort

Olty me gluen an I2 Jannury 195.

Around DeCen

ber 1953 (ale), OSHAD

entered Bormend Juider High School

$ 4621 donal Street, New Orleman.

lonelans, as in eighth grade trunsfer

tutent fron Ponto School as 1 Jer

Tart City.

Frain March 1953 to Jamury 1951 Jol

Caro m OSALs probation effor

OSHARD vas abseat tron hinter Mea

Schoal II7, for k7 days between

Octobes 1952 and Jarary 1953. Marro

021 day june white his note i

When CEMAID Clamily appearud betten

Court, ho us sent to louth House fer

Boys for oberation.

Dro Renatur

Now Ters Times

3 December 1969

3 Deceaber 196;

---

## Page 6

13-00000

DAL.

Aaron 1953 to

Jamary 195k conte

REVEREICE

Apr11 1953

/FARTOCA,.head prychtatrist-st-the

Institution exarined OSWALd and found him.

§dangeroas."

Ostiti made three consecutive

lippearances at the Children'e Court bafore

Judges Patrick J. Forarty, s. Walter HoClancy.

and Dadley F, Sicher, all of wbom recormended

Psychiatric treatment

In November 1953

OSWALD was roferred to the court's paychiatrio

when Carro wrote to CSWAlD's mother

to ithe clinio the letter, wag returned. wlth.

the 'notation, "Hoved".

In AprIl 1953 OSWALD wad comitted ty

Chlldren's Court to louth House for

1951

1 July 1950

1959

Presumabit, sometine alter 12 January 795%

OSWALD's mother returned de lew Orleans,

lontatana with her children: SWALDis

Inst day of attendance at sehoel ans given

by the New York Bourd of Bandation an

12 January 195k0

00 1072 12A

December 196

On 1 JULY 1956 OSHALD's mother rented an

D33:82162

apartment upatafre it 4936 Collington Streetg3 Jug 1963

Pert larth, Texas, which she eccipled with

OSWALD and Hobert Lee OSWALD. At that time

OsulLa tas a student at the Arlington Heights

High School While restdeing at this address

ostia) went out very little, preferring to

stoy at home and road. Mrs: "anos BA TAILOR,

who rented the apartment to OSKALDis motherg

stated that OswalD read very "deep. booke,

some of which he revelved through the mile

Por several months before hia diacharge from

the Marine Corps, OSWALD studied Fussion and

read Russian neuspapers.: According to OSWALD's

Marine Corps commanding offleer, OSWALD was

omart enough to get a G.C,I. (General

Classtfleation Iast) et 110, the name grade

---

## Page 7

13-00000

DATE

1959 cent

1939

1962

I June 1968

7 Juno 1962

BiAT

RETREICE

requtred for i commianion la required for

BOn LOVE

radhe torte

When OStALD roqueuted an only

dincharge fron the Marine Corps In Septenber

1959 on the cronde of his motherla finotal

hardship, other min to the soundron offered

to "chip in and help him, OSMALD tamed down

thome offers, When, o month later, OSHALD

Appeered la Moscoll, all peerut radio treguenates,

call alans, ad athenttention codes vero

compromised. OSHALD lonew the Location of every

ant on the Went Const, and the fam capabtlity

of every lastallation.

Several thonsand minbouns

changing everythin and vertlying the destructien

of the codes.

On 20 and 1I October 1959 OSHALD stayed

at the teral Hotel In Heloinkl, Finland

and then moved to the Klaus Turkd Hotel

where he stayed untll 15 October apparently

melting for a vise to be lames to him b

the Soviet Conminto In Helsink On 15

detober he traveled to the lash ly train

eroseing the border at Valnikitle.

On 13 Hay 1962 Moscow Iscued OSWALD's wife

« Datoh transit vies.

Records of the office of the German Federal

Repabllo In Cologne, Germany how that

Marina MUelayewn Pusshova OSkALD crossed west

Germany fron Beat Germary to Holland by trada

on 1 June 1962.

She had a West Sern viaa

604,62 lonued at the West Germn Ambasay In

Mosgowe

Her finnl destination was siren an

the United States

On 7 June 1968, Marina OSWALD advised the

to ret

Inter her Rasidance. Pernit No. KY-)7790,

Lamed 1. January 1962 by MID (Ministry of

Internal faire) of the ussly in the city

of Hosoow She gave as her last place of

residende in the USS, CIty of Minak,

Kommundatichestaya, House #4, Apte 25.

-3=

Hovember 1963

DIB: 85827

29 Nevember 1963

ar 2963

Soviet Consular Mile

---

## Page 8

13-00000

DATES

1968

9 July 1962

- Jaly 1962

15 Auguet 1962

111611

Ih Che" auror ef-1962 v

T and "Mrs"" ceorge!

DeHOBRENSCHILDI of Fort Horte, texas were

introdaced to OSWALD and his wife throught

friende sho wore Interested in helpine the:

The friende were,

George BOURG;

an accountant in Dallas, far Chang d

inttörner,

who had previouely been a socwrity.

officer with the Convair plant, and a petrolou.

engineer named Peter OREORY, who reportodiy

Idiacovered", Marina, OSWALD-

Stated

On 9 July 2962 a lotsor mn sent tron the Serlet Geneates

Complar Munion of the Seviet Embassy 1n

Wanhington, de Ory to Hartan OStAL requenting

har rebidendo permit fer regiotration.

She

was also saked to coplete card 118.

An undated letter fron OSWALD to the sovlet Soriet Commlar Ille

Embasay uns written fros OSHALDie "now

address" 2703 Mercedes Street, Port Harth,

Tenass OSILD atated that his nife'e

passport l KU 37790, had been forwarded

to tho Soviet Ambussy on 30 July, OSKALD

asked to be told how he could eubacribo to

"Prava or Isvestin" on come other Rogslan

language magnitne cuch as "Oconyok:" OSMALD

also requestod my pertodicata or balleting

the Stbanay "put out" for the "benefit of

pour citizens, livias for a line, in the US1."

On 15 Auguat 1962 Marina OSMALD prote to the Sordot Conlar Ille

Consular Section of the Sovlet Inbassy In

nahtngton, Do C. " letter atating that she

miled her "Restdence" and card No. 128 on

22 Jaly 1961, and had had no further ward

concerning 1t.

She stated that she was

worried bacause they had not been neinowedged.

She gave her addrese as 2703 Mercedes Aver,

Forth forth, Teras,

---

## Page 9

13-00000

DATE

196₴

6 Sept 1968

33 Des 1962

January 2963,

17 Februnry 1963

8' March 1963

EVENT

In the summer or fall of 1962 Mre. and

Mg, George DalDHRMISCHILDT tools OSHALD

and his wife to meet & Irlend, Everett

COVER, In Dallas,

Tern!. The CLoVile

Introduced o Ira. Juth PAINE to the

OSHARIS.

On & September 1968 Marina OSWALDIe

Sevlot Passport ma returned to her

sty: the Chief of the Geniular Beotlen

the setter ms addressed to her

It 270, Marcedes Avenue, Fort worthy

REFERENCE

State Alamen

8 2000m0r 1962

Soviet Cormier 5430

On I December 190% Marina OSKMD advised

the Soviet Connlate in Washington, Di Go,

that sho and her busband hid meved to

Dating, T+

She gave her addresa

as, Po Do Box 8915, Dallas, Texas.

Sordet Consuler. Ille

In oarty Jamary 1963, on the oscabion

of the Creak Orthodox

Christo, fr

and Mrs. Ceorge DaMORENSCHILDY brought

OSWALD and hia wife to & Husslan Chrlataes

party at the home of Mr, Beclan FORD, 1n

Dallao, Terno,

The party wis attended by

my people including Amerteans, Baropeans,

and Malte Fuselans.

Daring the party

OSWALD spent most of his time with a

Japanese girl named Taiko (phonetio).

State Aignam

8 December 11563

On 17 February 1963 Marina OSWALD mote to Soviet Donaular Ille

tho Sovlet Inbassy fron Dalles, ferns.

requesting halp to retam to the homeland

She stated that her husbend would not

socompany her, and she added, "I beg you

once more not to refuse uy request."

On 8 March 1963 the Consular DiVIsion of

the Soviet Babesay in Washington, D. C.»

Bore M

- 5-

---

## Page 10

13-00000

DATE

8 Maron 1963

conte

ROMEOS

Sortet Genruler 112g

to complete in comotton rich bar

request for a vlan to return to the

nash, and other Instruatton She

ins advised that the proceseing of

har mpplination wuld tute trons to 6

17 March 1963

17 March 1963

20 March 1963

-10 Apr11 190)

18 Apґ1] 1963

On 17 March 1963 Marina OSHALD complited

" to pago quentiammatre fer the Soviet

Babasty In Hathtngten, De G, in conneatten

mith her romest for o vina to retire do

the quen tomitro estatned

blographtnal detaise and a short enter

DeS.

vet Conmar Elle

On 19 Marah 1963 Narina OSMALD aroto to

the seviet Arboasador in washingten, Do Go,

as instructed by the Consolar Divlatin

of the imbasay, requesting permiasion to

return to the lashe

On 20 March 1963 an Itallan nado Monoltoher Now Jork Mimes

Caroine rifles a 1938 model of 6,5 un caliber, 7 lec 1965)

was received by OSUMD at his Dellas Poet

Office Bor The title lad boon ordered from

the Chicago moll order hunte of Slelate

Sporting Coads In Sha sine of A hilt.

On 20 April 1963 lnjor Gene Earin A, WALKIN

mo fired upon unize working in hin study

In his Dallas home.

oswAlD's rido, larina

ostita, has alaimed that OSWALD told ber

that be had shot at General Walker,

On 18 Apr11 1963 the Soviet Censulate

advised Marine OSWALD by letter that she

should cone to lashington, le Ors er explain

by letter the reasons wich made her start

proceelings for return to the USSR for

permanent residence:

Sorcet Conquler File

---

## Page 11

13-00000

DALE

5. 10y 1963

A Jume 1963

1 July 1963

8 July 1963

5 Augast 2963

On 5 May 2961 Marina OSHALD flled a

change of addresa notice to tho

Conular Division of the Soviet Enbeasy

1n Washington, Do Go The old address

was Even do Box 2915, Pallen, Tenna,

and the now address so civen no 4707

Magasino Street, New Orlema, Loutstana.

Seviet Conmlar Pile

On l dune 1963 another letter was sent from

serlet

the Consular Divistin of the Soviet Embrany

In Washington; Do One requeeting Harina

OSWALD to emplate her renions for desiring

to retara to the USSR by lotter 1f she uns

unable to vinht inshington for that purpose.

On 1 July 1963 L00 Enrvey OSHALD uroto to

the sovlet Embassy in Washington, Do Cog

requesting the Sevlet Embasay to "ruah"

the soviet entrance vian for his wife,

Narina OSKALD, bermse she uns going to

have a baby, in Cetober, and he asked

Shat the truve arrangments be made bafore

then. He added that his via could be connidered

separately

SOTiet Consular Elte

On 8 July 1963 Marina OSWALD wrote to the

Consular Division of the Soviet Embaany in

achington, Da leg

stating, "I urgently

boR you to failitate the expediting of

this metter for the remon stated in a

previous letter."

Soviet Conalar Lile

On 5 Anguat 1963 Marina OSWLD ma advised by Soviet Conduler File

the Consular Division af the Seviet Embansy

In lnshington, D. Dep that her request for

entering the Soviet Union for permnent

residence had been fermarded to Moscow fer

processing, and that she would be advised

at once when the anever ma received.

-7.

---

## Page 12

13-00000

DATE

25 September

1969

86 Septinber 1963

October 1963

20 Oetober 1963

23 October 1963

FUEL

My LeORDANNEL assistant chlor ot

the 'aninistrative divison of the dracti

Systen for Texas says that Lee Harvey)

ÖSWALD oalled on her in Austin, Texas

Beveral weake before the assassination)

In an attempt to get his alecharge front

Íthe Marines changed to an honorable one.:

As OSWALD reportedly left New Orleans on:

23 Saptember and arrived In Mexico City"

iby bus on 26 September,

he could have

Stopped in Austin en route

to Laredo OB

25 Septamber which was about eight weeks:

before the,assassination::

On 26 September 1963 report on Preaidens

Kemedy's proposed vlait was pablished in

the Dallas Horning Hots,

Hen Tost Her altrab u ne

27 lovember 190,

Some time In October 1963, a gunsmith in

Irving, Tears, munted a telescopic sight

on a gun for & man naned OSMD, The

ganendth, Diel De RYDEl, found & recept

showing be had mounted and edjuated a

& sight on a gun for a custoner named OSWALD.

There was no date for the receipt, but RIDER

recalled that the work had been done about a

month ago (1o 8, Ootaber): The Quitene

pald 1h.50 for drilling and $1.50 fer bore

sighting the reapon.

don Lock time

29 November 196%

On 70 Ortoder 1963 Marloa OSWALD gave birth Sovlet Gonsuler FIle

to a baby girl, Audrey Marina OSWALD,

On 23 October 1963 09MALD attended e rally.

Hen York Timon

forned ly the 1. 8. Day Comittee to counter I Dedember 1563

aet the forthcoming UN Day program on ali

October at which Adlal stevenson wan hookled,

Speaker at the U.S. Dey rally was Major

General Ecdin A. Walker of Dallas, Robert Ae

SURRET, A WALKER alde, rented the sudltorium

for the rallyo

-Bun

---

## Page 13

13-00000

DATE

25 doteber 1963

I Lovember 1963

1969

1 Hovenber (7)

9 Hevember 1962

RISERSICE

01101310

IL Lance

bor 156

Johnel He PADE to & moettag of th

C1v11 Ilberties Volor.

On 1 Horanber 1963 Marime OSWALD advised

the Soviet Cunmler Sentlen of her now

address, Po D. Box 6225, Daliao, Pesas.

Sovlet Consular 112e

In m undated letter to the Censular Section Sorted Genentar Ple

of the sovot Kay La Whington, Do Co

mated fron Irvine, Deran on 1 Horamber 1963

Marina OSWALD spelorised for her delay in

"ting to epints her remons for destring

to retura to the vssh. She stated that she had

been unble to do so for "fantly rerens."

Shen thon stated tant her Ansband now desired

to return to the USSR with here She said

What the was "homesick" for the USSR, and that

har maband was frequently unemployed maklag

things very diffiolt for them She stated

that mhe ulsbed to live in Leningrad where

she had a slater and a brother of her nother's

second merriage and were the grew up.

She

mIno felt that she would be able to find

work nore readily in Leninged as there were

more pharmales there.

On 9 November 1963 OSWALD wrote to the Consular let

Divlsion of the Sovlet Imbnesy in Mashington,

Do Cos stating that he had sean "Comrade KOSTIN™

In bacco lo explained that he vas not able

to remain in Merdeo Indefinitely because he

ho could not request a nes visa without uning

He added, "had he been able

to reach the Soviet Embansy In Havana an plated,

the embasay there muld have had time to complete

"our busdnoos." OSWAYD stated that he had been

Intervened by the FBI on 1 Novenber in Dallas,

Texas, and warned not to engage in any Fot G.C.

actlvities.

He added that the FBI agent had

stated that Marina OSWALD could remain in the

Unitod States under FBI "protection," and that

arce

---

## Page 14

13-00000

DATE

9 Meramber 1962.

1 December 1963

AST

she could "defent" from the Sovlet Union,

OSAID olaimed that hia wile had strongly

"protested" chose tuatiod. In eloning

oSkALD atated that hier tre had elven birth

to a daughter Audrey Marian OSWALD, en

80 October 1962"

On 1 December 1903 Devlet Ambienades.

Anatolty F, Dobryain turned ever to

Secretary of State Dean RUSt, a Soviet

Conmar file on OSWALD,

Sortet Consular 812e

Hashinston Poat

I December 1965

- 1000

---

