104-10177-10000)

8 November 1961

MSNORANDUM FOR: Chief, WH/4/¥FI-CI

: SUBJECT : Operational Security Threats Posed by
Arrest of AMCONCERT-1

me

1. Problem

i To attempt to determine extent and nature of possible
compromise of the Staybehind Net resulting from the reported
arrest of, AMCONCERT-1 by Cuban G-2.

2. Circumstances

520p 18 October 1961 Headquarters received a message fron
the(Hadra Station that the(QUATUM] representative at the Spanish
Embassy in Cuba reported that AMCONCERT~1 had been arrested by
G-2 during the week of 9 October, when he tried to make a clandes=
tine exit from Varadero Beach. No further details were given
other than the fact that AHCONCERT~1 was being held at G-2
Headquarters in Matanzas,

The events which lead to AMCONCEAT-1's subscquont appre-
hension by G-2 appears to be as follows:

a : a. After taking asylum at the Brazilian Babassy
sometime in July, it is apparont that ANCOKCERT-1
had made up his mind to effect an escape to Miami
via channels used by other members in the Staybebind

; Net previously. Accordingly, he met Jorge NOBREGAS
ff (xnowa as COCO) on the aftornoon of 4 August, who
informed hin that necessary arrangemonte for his

exfiltratjon had been completed, and that he would

> leave that weekend by boat from the Varadero Beach

: area. It appears that XOBREGAS was serving in a

cut-out capacity betwoen AMCONCERT-1 and the

Staybehind Net, and was reportedly given 2,600 pesos

by AKSTOY-1 to grease the skids for AMCONCERT-1‘'s

escape. When ANCONCERT-1 reached the rendazwus
site at the designated time where he was supposed to

Beet NOBREGAS, he learned fron an individual known

as CULO that NOBREGAS and three Cubans had already

taken off in « fishing boat, who. presumably had no

zp)


Aintestion of ‘eakiog AMOCONCERT=1 with them, (NOTE:
NOBREGAS and bis threo coapantuns later reached Key

| dest, Flortda, ehere thoy were picked up by a U.S,
Coast Guard vossel).

b. Since AMCONCERT-1 apparently decided not to return to ae,
the Brazilian Fubasay again, he recontacted the Stay-
behind Net and an oxfiltration plan was worked out with
WAYS via the OGAKIK channel for him to leave Cuba on
gl August. AMCONCERT-1 was staying at a beach motel
cabin near Buca de la Camarioca since 28 August and was
to be taken to the reception area in a fishing boat
out of Carabinero Point, once he received the signal i
by phono to move out, This exfiltration plan failed,
however, when the WAVE vessel found a hostile Cuban
frigate sweeping the rendezvous arca with searchlights,
which forced it to abandon its mission. At this point,
contact was lost with AMCONCERT~1, who it is presumed
returned to his hide-out in Havana.

Froa 1 September to the timc he was picked up by G-2,

wo can only assume that he recontacted CUCG, who pre-
sumably was respongible for laying on arrangements for
the ill-fated venture at the same location ncar Varadero
Boach, AMSTUF¥-l's recent report indicates that AMCON-
C#Ri~l, in the compray of five other Cubans, was actually
picked up by GZ on 6 October, as they attempted to leave
tie beach by boat, It appears that CUCO successfully
evaded capture and returned to Havana,

3. Background

AHCONCERT-1 (code name, "POCO") is a Cuban national, who .
was born 11 Cctober 1922 in Consolncion del Sur, Cuba. He is
married to Norma UGARRIZA Alonso, who is a Cuban national. They
have two daughters - Normita, age six and Ana Luisa, age eight.
Although his parente are believed to be dead, he has three brothers
and two sisters presently living in Cuba, He received his educa-
tion at the ESCUKLA TECNICA MECANICO TORNERO, where he learned
his trade as 2 printer. From 1952 to 1957, he was self-omployed
operating a printer‘a buginess and an auto sales agency. In 1959,
following the overthrow of the BATISTA Regime, he was employed
at the Ministry of Justice in an administrative capacity.

Subject was a sember of the "AUTENTIOO” Cuban revolutionary
wpovement led by Carlos PRI1O Socarras, former presideat of Cuba. In
view of his counter-revolutionary activities against BATISTA,
Subject was exiied from Cuba to Miami on 29 May 1957. He was
lator arrested and fined in Miani tor gunrunning operations into
Cuba. He returned to Cuba during the latter part of 1958.

