104-10413-40140

SECRET aia

tes eee 2 May 1975

' MEMORANDUM FOR: Deputy Chief, Operations Staff

‘SUBJECT . 3, Review of Agency Holdings regarding.
: Photograph of Unidentified Individual ©
in’ Mexico City published by the
Warren Commission

Letter dated 15 April 1975 by

Mr. David W. Belin, Executive Director
of the Commission on CIA Activities
within the United States, to

Mr. E. Henry Knoche (copy attached to
accompanying report)

REFERENCE

1. This is further to, and in completion of, my.
interim memorandum of a few weeks ago.

7 7 2. The attachment is a detailed review in narrative,
be ‘chronological order - together with appropriate comment~
: ary - of our extensive holdings on thé OSWALD case that
have a bearing on the matter of photographs taken by
Mexico City Station on(h, (4) and @5; October 1963 of an
i | Unidentified Individual. As a consequence of a combina-
ease ’ tion of analytical error, misjudgement and under the
: stress of an urgent desire to contribute to the develop-
ment of the investigation of the assassination, a
cropped version of one of the photographs: of the
/, Unidentified Individual was introduced into the chain of
i evidence in the OSWALD case on 23 Nofember 1963 by an
FBI representative in Dallas.’ Tne successive vicissi-
: tudes which have now made this event a cause celebre
~ right down to the present moment are detailed in the
narrative.

. : SECRET
eh weet et sl



13-00000

ob (Men 77
Sater wee 2,4,¢+ )& OQcketwnr bd,

[e Te
Dhon ae mame is Hy (perenne 7)
"dee |

Foe
Hines oa acceteaias peaien ce. ras
Pp, & palm sts

wa ane

pia


13-00000

SECRET 7 .

3. The attached report is not intended to be an .
answer to the Fensterwald/O'Toole article which Mr. Belin
attaches to his memorandum. (I have prepared a paragraph-
by-paragraph refutation and comment on that article,

\ which I believe is more appropriately handled by a sepa- r Ecune
i rate memorandum to Mr. Belin, and I will prepare this as ‘Ne
a memorandum if that is desired.) potter, yet
oo :

7 pee Ne.

4. The point of the referenced memorandum is that: “” G@ pet
consideration. should be given now to "whether or not the awd
entire matter can be fully disclosed at this time." This AlPle
submission is designed to make it possible for you, the
IG and others whom you may desire to consult to make this
decision. The narrative-interpretive summary has been
put together in such a way that it discloses no cyptonyms,
pseudonyms or other CIA jargon. However, its contents qo
well beyond what has been released to the public thus far
in the Warren Commission documentation. This point must

’ be borne in mind in making a decision on Mr. Belin's
question. To remove any question in anybody's mind about
our good faith in this matter, the narrative is backed up
Hee by copies of actual documentation from our files. It
i seems to me necessary, in reply to Mr. Belin, that he or
his representative review the documentation that backs up
the narrative. The documentation has not been: keyed into
the narrative presentation, but it follows the chronologi-
: cal order of presentation from 9 October into the latest
developments in the matter, and there is an overall index
to facilitate reference. to individual items. [NB: There

is_only one copy of this collection; this is it-]

: 5. As noted above, one of the photographs taken in

i Mexico City on 4 October 1963 was introduced into the

: Warren Commission public record. However, it was intro-
duced into that record in two cropped versions. The
Warren Commission and its staff were made fully aware in
the course of their inquiry at Headquarters and in

Mexico City of the origins of the photograph, the fact
that we had additional photographs of the same individual
taken at different times in Mexico City and on the basis
of full knowledge of these facts reached their own con-
clusions regarding the irrelevance of the photograph to
OSWALD and the assassination.

(

6. In fact, we actually hold twelve different photo-
graphs of the Unidentified Individual. Each of these are?—
reproduced in the collected documentation backing up the

- narrative report (see Items 25 - 27). Chief, LA Division,

2
SECRET


j
|
{
t

wr"
yt

ih
Se

SECRET —_

had indicated in writing to Chief, CIOPS, that he has no
objection for Mr. Belin to do whatever is desired with
these photographs at this time. It should be noted that
Mr. Fensterwald in 1971 - 1972 was actually shown, by
Mr. Houston during a visit to the Agency, two of the
twelve photographs, other than the one already published
in the Warren Commission report. (It is these two that
he has published in The New York Review of Books article
which Mr. Belin attaches to his memorandum.)

7. %It seems to me that whoever makes a decision on
whether the entire matter can be fully disclosed at this
time should bear in mind that a subsidiary decision must
also be made, i.e., whether to crop or otherwise fuzz up
the background of the photographs or, alternatively, to
publish the entire run of the photographs for the first
time without taking out the background. Obviously, none
of these questions apply to the passage of this material
to Mr. Belin and the Rockefeller Commission itself. I
think they should see the entire documentation as it
stands. Perhaps after that, the question of what, could
be discussed and the question of “how?" and "how much?"
could be taken up with Mr. Belin himself. My personal
recommendation is that the more we can say about this
matter in a fully open and final manner, the better off
we will be as an Agency. But it is my understanding
that there are still sensitivé aspects deriving from the

i i roduced the photographs
i [aison and as a consequence
ie would create additional problems
ico}. Also, it should be noted that
he Ambassador, according to Win Scott's memorandum to
J.C. King on 22 November 1963 (see Item 8 in the backup
documentation), allegedly played a direct role in the
decision to put the photographs into the hands of the FBI
in Dallas laterally from the Field. As far as I know,
there has not been anything published about this aspect
at any time in the past nor have we had any discussions
with the State Department about that aspect of the matter.

at that level dn Me>

Raymond G. Rocca

Attachments:
as stated

SECRET


= SECRET

2 May 1975

SUBJECT : The Photo of an Unidentified Individual in the Warren
Conmission Report: A Factual Chronological Survey

cs
REFERENCE: Memorandum by David W. Belin to Mr. E. Hapry Knoche, ee
15 April 1975 (Attachment A)

1. Reference memorandum suggests it would be appropriate to

“veconsider full disclosure at this time of the circumstances and factual

data relative to the Subject. The purpose of this survey is to permit a

realistic evaluation of the suggestion.

Background

2. This examination and summary of the record concerns a cropped
photograph considered by the President's Commission on the Assassination
of President Kennedy (hereinafter cited as the Warren Commission) and
introduced into evidence as Odum Exhibit No. ne The photograph

(together with others of the same individual) originated from a highly

1 See Hearings Before the President's Conmission on the Assassination
of President Kennedy ‘(hereinafter cited as Heari ngs)» Vol. XX, p. 691.

SECRET


SECRET

sensitive intelligence operation being conducted in October 1963 by. the

CIA aaa security authori ties against the Soviet and Cuban :

“Embassies in Mexico City.

: 3. Under the extraordinary press of effort to develop information

on the assassin and the assassination, copies of the photograph were

made available by CIA's Mexico Station Chief on the afternoon of

22 November to the local FBI representative, and later that day, -
assertedly on the decision of the Ambassador, copies were conveyed by.
an FBI representative by a special flight carried out by the U.S. Naval
Attache to the Dallas office of the FBI for possible use in the ongoing
investigation. One photograph, cropped by the FBI, was shown to

Mrs. Marguerite OSWALD (Lee Harvey OSWALD's mother) in Dallas on the
evening of 23 November 1963 by FBI Agent Bardwell D. ODUM.

4. The Warren Commission's report describes the sequence of events
at pp. 364-365 and 667 (Attachment B) which ultimately resulted in
Mrs. Marguerite OSWALD's allegation.that she had been shown a cropped
photo of Jack RUBY the day before he murdered her son. (A further
complication compounding this erroneous conclysion was the fact that
when she had been shown a copy of the same photograph in her appearance
before the Commission, it had been cropped by the FBI in Washington in

a slightly different manner. )

5. No detail in the Warren Commission report illustrates more

vividly than this one the difficulties that beset simple truth in the

SECRET


13-00000

(eyes Cle O8 cunt. Aeparlad. ar
0830 bu 2 Oe 65 hak Lhe “Mrlolen
Phan Ano (Ut Gharnedt unit 1216 Rano

ma


13-00000

SECRET an

politicized, rigidly deterministic interpretive climate that has been
nurtured by the.media over the past decade about the Kennedy Assassina-
tion. . The photograph, acknowledged now not to be RUBY, has continued to
preoccupy. “specialists” and has becone the centerpiece of another
hypothesis that holds OSWALD to have been "framed" by the use of a

double in his activity in Mexico City.2

Lee Harvey OSWALD - Reporting on Mexico City Stay

6. Although in no way related to Lee Harvey OSWALD or his stay in
Mexico City from the morning of 27 September 1963.to the morning of
2 October 1963, at least one set of photographs of the unidentified man
originated during OSWALD's stay there. It is important, therefore, to
an understanding of the acquisition and handling of the photographs by
the Mexico Station to review what the Station ascertained and did with
the information it developed about OSWALD in Mexico City, together with

Headquarters action on that information.

7. From all credible evidence known to this time (none, incidentally,
added since the exhaustively unique work of the Warren Commission),
Lee Harvey OSWALD spent four (4) full days and two (2) partial days--

about 116 hours in all--in Mexico City from about 10:00 a.m. 27 September

2 This is the thrust of the article "The CIA and the Man Who Was Not
Oswald" by Bernard Fensterwald and George O'Toole in the New York Review
of Books, a copy of which is attached to reference (Attachment A).

3
SECRET


13-00000

|
|
|

_ SECRET oe

1963 to about 8:30 a.m. 2 October 1963. His place of. residence was a
smal] commercial traveler hotel, not frequented by "gringos"--the i
Hotel Commercio--where he was. registered under alias. Exhaustive and i :
detailed interviews and interrogation by the Mexican authorities and

the’ FBI, after the assassination, established that. in the recollection of

all hotel personnel he left early and returned late each day. of his stay.

8. Assuming, and allowing for the. fact of late arrival and early
departure; that he slept one-third of the time of his stay (38 or 30"
hours), there remain some 78 hours of activity to be accounted for. :
Overall, CIA's information can account solely for very brief periods
during 27, 28 September and 1 October. All coverage by CIA during the
entire period was technical. The Station had no live source (living

agent) coverage either unilateral or from Mexican liaison.

9. It should be noted that OSWALD was in.no sense "under investi-
gation." None of the facts of his defection and stay in the USSR and
return to the U.S., 1959 - 1962, were-known to Mexico Station files.
before 10 October 1963, when the bare bones of his biography were
forwarded by Headquarters in response to a Station cabled report of
8 October which had forwarded, on a routine basis, what appeared to be
a contact by an Anerican for a visa to Cuba in transit to the USSR. This
was indicated and deduced from technically acquired information on
1 October, which was the first and only occasion in which OSWALD

identified himself (partially) by true name.

SECRET


13-00000

Dhan ie We forrasire, He
—_ feb fro aeere
Baneonig ln PO a ana prance

julreryee

fore"! | peed teed
2 phar Qgureed

Jue paaeknth The OOS [|


13-00000

|

SkEtKES

10. At no time during his stay in Mexico City did the CIA acquire
a photo of OSWALD. A careful review of all coverage, voice intercept,
as well as photographic, of both the Soviet and Cuban Embassies _
conducted by the Station on 22 and 23 November 1963 after the assass ina~
tion, going back to materials from August 1963. It is, therefore, firm —
that there was no CIA photo coverage of OSWALD at any time during his
Mexico trip. or stay in Mexico City. Moreover, although it had made fe
cabled request on 15 October, the Mexico Station had no photo of OSWALD
in its records, nor did it receive one from Headquarters--which did not

have one either--before 22 November 1963.

i. fuvits Fhis intensive review of voice intercept transcripts
by the monitor and other personnel on the basis of the 1 October inter-
cept--which had been reported to Headquarters and disseminated to the
interested members of the intelligence community (as an ex-Marine OSWALD
was a Navy and FBI case under the Delimitations Agreement, and potentially
of interest to the Department of State)--turned up matches based on
content with materials intercepted on 27 and 28 September 1963. These
matches were reported to Headquarters on 23 November 1963. Analysis
based on voice comparison (except for what could be recalled by the
monitor--and this was not an insignificant element because of the
memorably poor Russian spoke by OSWALD) could not be made because the

tapes, in accordance with the normal practice, had been erased and re-used.

SECRET


13-00000

12.

——na

Oy rnet Hate fr (pele 4 2 Oras

oa) eee


:
|

HEI Ge REET ce

12 It must be stressed that the voice intercept and photographic
coverage was not (and normally-is not) processed in “real time." The.
means of acquisition and the volume of the information precludes anything
but the spot reporting of items judged by the monitor to be of more than
ordinary interest and, therefore, noted in summary logs. Full texts: of
selected items require consultation of the tape and either a full tran-
scription or full translation or both. Photo coverage tends to become
available in quantity lots which requires scanning and selection on a
rapid and accelerated basis in four or five day "peaks." One of the
"triggers" that normally. operates to focus and accelerate more speedy
review and reporting of this kind of raw intelligence is the mention of
aname. This was precisely what occurred in the second of two conversa-
tions on 1 October with the Soviet Embassy, during which the speaker said
he was "Lee OSWALD." It was this information reported by the Station to

Headquarters in its first. indication on OSWALD on 8 October 1963.

13. The Mexico Station did one more thing in its 8 October report
on Lee OSWALD based on its 1 October voice intercepts: it coupled the
data with descriptive information it had acquired fron a sensitive
collateral source--a photograph of. a male individual, apparently an.
American, who was observed entering the Soviet Embassy on @ october. &
The Station reported this detail on the 8th as a matter of coincident
fact. The Station did not assert or suggest that the data deduced from

the photo was in fact OSWALD, or indeed, was in any way related to OSWALD.

SECRET


13-00000

SECRET

Lee Harvey OSWALD - CIA Coverage of His Mexico City Stay

14.. One additional element of background must be stipulated now as
the final precondition to understanding the relevance (or irrelevance)
of the photo of the unknown individual placed in the chain of evidence
on 23 November in Dallas by FBI Agent Bardwell ODUM: what was the
totality of CIA Mexico's coverage of OSWALD's activity as of the after-

noon of the 23rd when all available coverage had been checked?

15. “The totality of Mexico Station coverage on, or reasonably

inferable to be OSWALD, consisted of five (5) voice intercepts as follows:

a. 27 September 1963 (Friday), 1605 hours Mexico City time.

Silvia DURAN, a Mexican national, a local employee of the Cuban
Embassy, Consular section, a receptionist, speaks with an unknown
male at the Soviet Embassy. Silvia DURAN tells the man that the
American ‘citizen was there, the one who wants a visa for Cuba on
his way to the Soviet Union,: and he wants to know with whom he was
talking there because she (Silvia DURAN) had sent him to the Soviet
Embassy saying that if ‘they accepted him and gave him a visa, then
the Cubans (Embassy) would also give him’a visa without further
paper work, only advising Immigration in Cuba. The American, she
says, wants to know with whom he had talked there because he says
he was told there would be no problem. The man in the Soviet

Embassy says to wait a moment. A different Soviet speaks, and

SECRET


ioe : ee See CRE aa

Silvia DURAN explains the same thing to him. This man says to
Jeave a name and telephone number and says he will call back.
Silvia DURAN gives the telephone 11-28-47 (Cuban Consulate).

She also takes advantage of the conversation and states she has
moved and wants to advise the Soviet Embassy of her change of
address so that she can receive the Soviet Embassy's Bulletin.

The man says to call KOUKHARENKO to give her’ new address, then he
asks the name of the Consul. or Cultural Attaché. Silvia DURAN says
the name is Teresa PROENZA and the telephone number ‘is 14-13-26.

The man says thanks.

i b. 27 September 1963 (Friday), 1626 hours Mexico City time.

An unidentified male, a Soviet, calls the Cuban Consulate, asks
Silvia DURAN if the American had been there.- Silvia DURAN says he
is there now. The Soviet says the Anerican showed papers from the

Consulate in Washington, that he wants to go to the Soviet Union

and be there for a long time with his wife, who is Russian, but

the answer has not come from Washington in respect to this problem,

and according to this procedure it takes four or five months, but
% without having permission from the Soviet Union they should ask, or
a better said, they cannot issue a visa there without asking Washing-
ton. However, according to this man, he showed a letter indicating
he was a member of an organization in favor of Cuba and that the

Cubans said that they cannot issue a visa without his having a visa

SECRET


\
ay

SECRET

for the Soviet Union, and now he (the Soviet) does not know what to
do with him (the American), because they have to wait for an answer
from Washington. : : : eo
Silvia DURAN agrees the same problem exists with the Cubans ,

* that the problem with him (the American) is that-he does not. know
anyone in Cuba and therefore if that is true it will be difficult
for him to get a visa for Cuba, because he was thinking of proces -
sing his visa (for the Soviet Union), because he knew it would
require waiti ng a long time for his visa tothe Soviet Union while
in Cuba, and from there go to the Soviet Union. The Soviet said
the thing is that if his wife right now were in Washington she

\ would receive her visa right now, or permission, from the Soviet

id Union, to return to her country, she is going to receive her visa in
Washington but having this visa, she could conmunicate to any place
this permission, for example here or any. place she could receive it
(visa or permission), but right now they do not have them.
Silvia DURAN says certainly and they cannot give a letter either
because they do not know if the visa will be approved. The Soviet
says he cannot give a letter or recommendation either because he
does not know him (the American) and asks to be excused for

bothering her. Silvia DURAN says that is all right and many thanks.

c. 28 September 1963 (Saturday), 1151 hours Mexico City time.

Silvia DURAN calls the USSR Embassy and talks to an unidentified

SECRET


13-00000

i
i
t
|
i

SECRET

Soviet. She says that in the Cuban Embassy there is a North
American who was at the Soviet Embassy. The Soviet says wait a
minute. Silvia DURAN speaks English with someone--and comments in
Spanish that they gave APARICIO telephone 14-12-99 and to take the
number down--Silvia DURAN then says the American citizen. is going
to talk with you, ji.e., the Soviet. The Anerican first speaks
Russian and the Soviet speaks English. They continue in English.
The American talks broken Russian and says I was in your Embassy and
spoke to your Consul. Just a minute. A Soviet takes the phone and
asks the American in English what does he want? The American says
please speak Russian. The Soviet says what else do you want? The
American says I was just now at your Embassy and they took my
address. The Soviet says I know that. The Anerican, in hardly
recognizable Russian, says I did not know it then. I went to the
Cuban Embassy to ask them for my address, because they have it.
The Soviet says why don't you come again and leave your address
with us, it is not far from the Cuban Embassy. The American says

I'l] be there right away.

d. 1 October 1963 (Tuesday), 1031 hours Mexico City time.

An unknown male (American) calls the Soviet Embassy, the Military
Attachée's number, 15-69-87, and says to an unidentified Soviet
respondent: I was at your place last Saturday and talked to your

Consul. They said that they would send a telegram to Washington,

10

See CHR Ea:


13-00000

~

SECRET ce

and I wanted to ask you if there is anything new? The Soviet says
I would like to ask you to call another phone number? Please write

it down: 15-60-55, and ask for a consul. Thank you.

e. 1 October 1963 (Tuesday), 1045 hours Mexico City time.

The same person who phoned a day or so ago and spoke in broken
Russian speaks to OBYEDKOV (a Soviet Embassy guard). He says:

This is Lee OSWALD speaking. I was at your place last Saturday and
spoké to a consul, and they said that they would send a telegram to
Washington, so I wanted to find out if you have anything new? But
I don't remember the name of that consul. OBYEDKOV says: -KOSTIKOV.
He is dark (hair or skin - 7). OSWALD says yes. My name is OSWALD.
OBYEDKOV says, just a minute, I'll find out. They say that they
have not received anything yet. OSWALD says: Have they done
anything? OBYEDKOV says: Yes, they say that a request has been
sent out, but nothing has been received as yet. OSWALD says, and

what . . . ? OBYEDKOV hangs up.

16. Each of these items, including the texts of the raw intercepts,

were read by, discussed with, and examined by‘Warren Commission staffers
in Headquarters and at the Mexico Station during a stay from 8 - 13 April

1964.3 All were made available promptly to the FBI.

3 The Warren Commission group that visited the Mexico Station consisted
of Mr. Coleman, Mr. Slawson, and Mr. Willens. They examined not only the

W

SECRET


13-00000

See GaRe cal.

17. Summing up, we can state, or by free interpretation reasonably
infer from the intercept evidence, that OSWALD made or could have made
the following contacts with the Cuban and Soviet official establishments

in Mexico City.
'

a. 27 September 1963 (Friday). After arrival and check-in to
his hotel, OSWALD went first to the Cuban Embassy where he talked
with Mrs. Silvia DURAN. The time of his first Cuban Embassy visit
is unknown.. The time of his second Cuban Embassy visit was about
1600 hours (i.e., just before closing). Sometime between the two
Cuban Embassy visits, at Mrs. DURAN's indication, he must have
visited the Soviet Embassy. We have no indi cation vho"he talked
wigar at the Soviet Embassy.

intercepts a - e above, but others for the 27th and one for 3 October
that seemed to have relevance. These have not been included in this
summary because they appear, on review, to be excludable fromthe OSWALD
matter on logical or substantive grounds, or both, bearing in mind that
the Soviet Embassy received many calls pertaining to visa matters.

On the 27th at 1037 hours. the Soviet Embassy received a call from
an unknown individual speaking Spanish who said he wanted visas to go to
Odessa. He was told the Consul was not in and to call back at 1130.
OSWALD is known to have arrived at the Flecha Roja bus terminal on bus
#516 at circa 1000 hours on the 27th. It was, therefore, possible for
him to have made this call. But granting this, it is unreasonable to
believe the calls were OSWALD's for the following reasons:

a. The caller wanted visas, and specifically for Odessa.
OSWALD was seeking a visa and never in any context did he specify
the Black Sea port of Odessa as a destination.

t

12

SECRET


13-00000

"Station photographic coverage of the Cuban Embassy
did not include the Consulate gate until October."
[MEXI-7098 (IN 69127), 27 November 1963] ,
See in ALVARADO file.



13-00000

Phe tine m0) Cope DSuntet
a7 Sp b 8 Beer Th Merten,
ke fev et Gy tenn (R00 Aer |
Hs Outed trnsing ay AL
[3 , a aa
F pom. ne Can Aeripn Ebene prom


13-00000

SECRET

There was no photographic coverage of OSWALD's entries
into either the Cuban or Soviet Embassies on the 27th. The lack of

coverage on the Cuban installation is explainable: the ‘camera,

‘based on the recollection of officers still in service in Head-

quarters , was down on the 27th because of mechanical malfunction,

which was in course of correction. Why OSWALD was missed in his

probable entry to the Soviet installation on the 27th is not yet

‘explained, but no technical operation of that kind is infallible.

b. 28 September 1963 (Saturday). [Note: Both the Cuban and

Soviet Embassies were closed to the public on Saturdays. Photo-

graphic coverage was normally suspended Saturdays and Sundays .]

b. The call was directed to the correct Soviet consular
number: 15-60-55.. On 1 October, OSWALD first called the wrong
number, 15-69-87 (the MA's number), and had to redirect his call to
the correct number, 15-60-55. It seems unlikely he would have made
what would have been his initial call, on Friday the 27th, to the
correct number, and called the incorrect number on 1 October.

c. There is every reason to believe from the context of the
intercepts, para 15, a-e above, that OSWALD's first destination
after arrival and check-in to his hotel, was a visit to the Cuban
Embassy.

d. The use of the Spanish language would exclude OSWALD unless
he made use of an intermediary, which seems unlikely from what is
known of his modus operandi.

On 3 October at 1539 hours an individual speaking broken Spanish,

then. English, called the Soviet Embassy and asked for a visa. The Soviet
respondent says: Call on the other phone. The requestor says: I'm

13

SECRET


13-00000

i
|
|
'

Also for some unexplained reason, the Desk did not disseminate

the information that OSWALD had indicated in his telephone call

to the Soviet Embassy that he had been to the Embassy on 28

September 1963. The Mexico City Station, however, did pass
this information locally.



13-00000

SECRET ~,

OSWALD, notwithstanding the holiday schedule, went on Saturday
morning to the Soviet Embassy (his second visit) where he spoke to

a Consul. He apparently could not recall his new Texas address.

At circa 1151 hours he went to the Cuban Embassy--his third entry-- :
where he had registered it in his visa application the day
previously. He secured the address from Mrs. DURAN and she called ©
the Soviet Consulate presumably to permit him to give them the
address over the phone. Instead, the Soviet with whom OSWALD spoke
over Mrs. DURAN's telephone invited OSWALD to come back in person,
and he said he would immediately. Presumably, thereupon OSWALD went

back to the Soviet installation (his third entry).

looking for a visa to go to Russia. The Soviet says: Please call on the
telephone of the Consul, 15-60-55. The requestor says: One moment
please, I'll have to get a pencil to write the number down. - They issue
the visa there? The Soviet: That depends on your conversation. I don't
know about this. business. The requestor asks for the number again. The
Soviet gives him the number and tells him to ask for the Consul of the
Soviet Embassy in Mexico. ‘

The relevance of this intercept to OSWALD is excludable on three
grounds :

a. The use of broken Spanish. OSWALD throughout used broken
Russian or English. He had no competance in Spanish to handle a
conversation of this kind.

b. The substance of the request indicates a visa request in
the first stages of initiation. OSWALD had developed his matter

with the Cubans and the Soviets the previous Saturday to a point
well beyond the stage indicated by the substance of this call.

14

SECRET


13-00000

J fue /%. Carine %o 2 Oclatey Be Dt.
4 Coma deide's “Anges” : ee
| Te 2 fee ee a Oe
the pay, Hes frstad bua Haud


13-00000

SECRET aa

c. 29 September 1963 (Sunday). No activity registered.

d. 30 September 1963 (Monday). No activity registered.

(It is known that OSWALD reserved space this date on a Mexico City-

* Laredo bus, departing 2 October 1963 at 0830 hours.)

e. 1 October 1963 (Tuesday). OSWALD made at least two calls,

at 1031 and 1045 hours, to the Soviet Embassy. He identified himself
twice during the second call when he talked with OBYEDKOV--a guard--
and referred to his talk on Saturday, probably with KOSTIKOV. There

was no photographic coverage of OSWALD on 1 October; if the follow-
ing reasoning is correct, that was as it should be. From the context
ce of the two calls, there would have been no reason for him to go to
the Embassy. His case had clearly been placed at the sufferance of
the USSR Embassy in Washington. His two calls on 1 October were
concerned with whether any reply had been received from Washington.
Under those circumstances, it is unreasonable to believe OSWALD

would have gone to the Soviet Embassy on that date.

18. The camera at about mid-day registered the entry into the

Soviet Embassy of a white-shirted individual who, in the opinion of the

c. OSWALD had left Mexico City, based on all the credible
evidence, the early morning of the previous day, 2 October, and
could not have made this local call.

15

SECRET


13-00000
a SECRET

Station, among al] the persons photographed that day, appeared to be the
only person--a non-Latin, and possibly an American--who entered the Soviet
installation. On the chance there could be .an association between the
identification data derived from the voice intercept and the descriptive
data derived fron the photograph, the Station reported the two elements

as separate facts in its cable to Headquarters on 8 October.

19. The Station's action was not unusual and really amounted to an

analytic “quantum leap," justified by the primitive and initiatory status

of the OSWALD. identification. Many examples of a similar kind of thing
can be found in the day-to-day record of Station-Headquarters correspon-

dence and reporting.

Developments from 8 October - 22 November 1963

20. Mexico Station reported to Headquarters on 8 October (received in

Headquarters 9 October) the following initial information on OSWALD.4

(1) On.1 October 1963, an American male who spoke
broken Russian and said his name Lee OSWALD (phonetic),

stated he was at SovEmb on 28 September when he spoke

4 Cablese has been rendered here, and throughout, into readable English,
without substantive changes or omissions. Cryptonyms and pseudonyms
have been omitted or put into clear text.

16

SECRET


13-00000

(pew

ati Plevtd be 2 OcTebu 63


13-00000
feat SECRET

with a consul whan he believed to be Valeriy

Vladimirovich KOSTIKOV. Subject asked. the Soviet.
i guard [Ivan] OBYEDKOV ,-who answered, if there was
: anything new regarding ‘a telegran to Washington.
‘

OBYEDKOV upon checking said nothing had: been

i received yet, but the request had been sent.

| (2) Mexico Station said it had photos of a male
+who appeared to be an American entering the Soviet

Embassy at 1216 hours, leaving 1222 on'1 October.

Apparent age 35, athletic build, circa 6 feet,
receding hairline, balding top. Wore khakis and

sport shirt.

(3) No local dissemination was being made by the

Station.

seal 21. On 10 October 1963 at 2012Z time the WH Division responsible
for action disseminated this report to the Department of State, the FBI,
and the Navy Department by routine electrical transmission, adding some

collateral details drawn from a preliminary file review:

(1) On October 1963 a reliable and sensitive
source in Mexico reported that an American male,
who identified himself as Lee OSWALD, contacted

the Soviet Embassy in Mexico City inquiring |
7

SECRET


SECRET te

whether the Embassy had received any news con-

cerning a telegram which had been sent to

Washington. [The American.was described as
approximately 35 years old, with an athletic

build, about 6 feet tall, with a "receding"

haterine.7

5 (2) It is believed that OSWALD may be identical
‘to Lee Henry [sic] OSWALD, born on 18 October 1939

in New Orleans, Louisiana, a former U.S. Marine

who defected to the Soviet Union in October 1959
and later. made arrangements through the United
States Embassy in Moscow to return to the United
States with his Russian-born wife, Marina

Nikolaevna PUSAKOVA [sic] and their child.

(3) The information in paragraph (1) is being
disseminated to your representatives in Mexico City.
Any further information received on this subject
‘ will be furnished you.. This information is being
; made available to the Immigration and Naturalization

Service.

22. Although the reaction of the Headquarters desk was "by the
book" and in good time, there were a number of errors in this advisory
to the departments which, on the record, were concerned with the OSWALD

case:

18
SECRET


13-00000

SECRET we

a. OSWALD's middle name was misgiven: "Henry" for Harvey.
The reason for this mistake is simplicity itself. The sheet opening
the file on OSWALD on 9 December 1960 had been erroneously inscribed
"OSWALD, Lee Henry." That sheet--unchanged except for the notation of

the error--is still the first sheet in the OSWALD file.
b. His wife's maiden name was misspelled: "PUSAKOVA" for PRUSAKOVA.

Neither of these errors are significant (though they persist in the

Headquarters communications throughout the month). More important was:

c. Paragraph (2) of the Mexico Station's report, which dealt with
a concurrent, but separate, phenomenon, the description of an individual
observed going into and out of the Soviet Embassy, had been locked on to
Lee OSWALD as an alleged descriptive fact. The Station's qualification,
“appeared to be an American," was transformed in the flat designation of

the unidentified individual as "The American."

There can be no question that this misreading of the Mexico Station report
was an analyst's error which escaped detection inthe’ coordination before
release: the descriptive details attributed to OSWALD were so far off the
mark as to be immediately recognizable as suck by the recipients in Head-
quarters, among whom both the Navy and FBI had photos of OSWALD. (In partial
explanation, if not exculpation, be it recalled that as of that moment CIA

had no photograph of OSWALD in Headquarters or in Mexico City to refer to.)

23. Confirmation of this judgment is provided by the contents of
the cable composed by the same analyst and sent as of 2209Z time (two

hours later) to Mexico Station, referencing its 8 October cable:

19
SECRET


13-00000

SECRET saat

(1) Lee OSWALD who called SovEmb 1 October
probably identical Lee Henry [sic] OSWALD born
18 October 1939, New Orleans, Louisiana, former
radar. operator in United States Marines who
defected to USSR in October 1959. OSWALD is
five feet ten inches, one hundred sixty five

pounds, light brown wavy hair, blue eyes.

(2) -On 31 October 1959 he attempted to renounce

“his United States citizenship to the United States

Embassy in Moscow, indicating he had applied for
Soviet citizenship. On 13 February the US Embassy
Moscow received an undated letter fron OSWALD
postmarked Minsk on 5 February 1961 in which sub-
ject indicated he desired return of his US passport
as he wished to return to USA if "we could come

to some agreement concerning the dropping of any
legal proceedings against me." On 8 July on his
own initiative he appeared at the Embassy with

his wife to see about his return to States.

Subject stated that he actually had never applied
for Soviet citizenship and that his application

at that. time had been to remain in USSR and for a
temporary extension of his tourist visa pending
outcome of his request. This application, according

to OSWALD, contained no reference to Soviet

20

SECRET


fe

SECRET ~

citizenship. OSWALD stated that he had been
employed since 13 January 1960 in Belorussian
radio and tv factory in-Minsk where he worked

as a metal worker in research shop. OSWALD was
married on 30 April 1961 to Marina Nikolaevna
PUSAKOVA [sic], a dental technician born 17 July
1941, USSR. No.Headquarters traces. He

attempted to arrange for his wife to join him in

Moscow so she could appear at Embassy for visa
interview. His American passport was returned
to him. US Embassy Moscow stated twenty months
of realities of life in Soviet Union had clearly

had a maturing effect on OSWALD.

(3) Latest Headquarters information was an FBI

i report dated May 1962 saying the FBI had deter-

mined OSWALD. is still a US citizen and both he
and his Soviet wife have exit permits and
Department of State had given approval for their

travel with their infant child to USA.

(4) The Station should pass the information of
reference [its 8 October cable] and paragraph (1)
above to the Embassy, the FBI, the Navy, and I&NS

locally. The information given above as

21

SECRET


13-00000
SECRET

paragraphs (2) and (3) originated with the FBI. «>

ry

a i &
(5) Reference and possible identification

being disseminated to Headquarters of FBI, State,
Navy, and I&NS.. Please keep Headquarters
advised on any further contacts or positive

identification of OSWALD.

24. Headquarters feedback to Mexico City of OSWALD's correct
description should have been sufficient, in view of the incongruities

with the details deduced from the photo of the unidentified male, to

keep these two matters apart as investigative facts. But things did not

work out that way.

25. Mexico Station on 15 October 1963 asked Headquarters to
"please pouch a photo of OSWALD." Headquarters electrically delivered

to the Department of the Navy the following message.on 24 October 1963.
"Lee Henry [sic] OSWALD...

"It is requested that you forward to this office
as soon as possible two. copies of the most ‘recent
7 photograph you have of subject. We will forward
them to our representative in Mexico, who will
attempt to determine if the Lee OSWALD in Mexico

City and subject are the same individual."
22

SECRET


13-00000
deEuURE SE

No photo had been received by CIA by 22 November 1963.

26. Within its limitations and capabilities, Mexico Station had

done all it could to comply with.Headquarters instructions:

‘ a. Headquarters had been alerted, and in turn those agencies
with an investigative or policy interest in OSWALD as an American
in the United States had been alerted, both in Washington and in
the field. ‘

b. Mexico Station had no further contacts by OSWALD to report

because--as it was ultimately ascertained--he had left Mexico City :

on 2 October.

c. OSWALD was not an Agency investigative responsibility, in
any case. Even with a photograph, it would have taken very special
efforts, triggered by the other interested U.S. agencies, to have
made a positive identification in view of OSWALD's hotel registra-

tion under alias. *.

There the matter rested until mid-day 22 November 1963.

The Insertion of the Photo of the Unidentified Individual into the

} Chain of Evidence

Hl 27. -On 22 November 1963 the Mexico Station cabled Headquarters at

2229Z time after learning of the arrest of Lee H. OSWALD, age 24,
23

SECRET



13-00000

See Cun ea

possibly in connection with the assassination, and referenced ‘its
earlier messages of 8-9 and 15 October and Headquarters’ reply of

10 October. The Station requested ‘by:

“priority pouch a photo of OSWALD so that Station
i can check all recent coverage for OSWALD. Forward-
ing soonest copies of only visitor to Soviet Embassy

; on 1 October who could be identical with OSWALD."

28. It is clear that Mexico Station had forgotten that according

to its own communication the unidentified male in the photo was of

“apparent age 35" and that the accurate description of OSWALD forwarded
( by Headquarters on 10 October precluded the identity with OSWALD of the
person whom they regarded as the “only visitor to the Soviet Embassy on

1 October who could be identical."

29. The Station meanwhile had begun an exhaustive and accelerated
review of all its technical and photographic intelligence. A dispatch
was prepared in accordance with the indication given in the cable of
22 November, cited in paragraph. 25 above. The dispatch noted that

: photo coverage of the unidentified individual had turned up on 4 and
15 October at the Soviet and Cuban Embassies, respectively. The text

of the 22 November 1963 pouched dispatch read: :

“J. Attached are copies of the only photographs

obtained . . . on 1 October 1963 which appeared
24

Se beCaRebah


13-00000

= SECRET

to be an Anerican. This same man visited the Soviet

Embassy on 4 October 1963.

"2. Copies of these photographs were shown to the
U.S. Ambassador on 22 November 1963 and a. copy of
each of the two photographs was given to Chief FBI,

Mexico, on that date... .

"P.S. “Photographs dated 15 October 1963 were
inserted after typing of dispatch. These were

taken as [the] person entered the. Cuban Embassy."

Attached were eight photographs: four (of which two were marked

1 October on reverse) showing the individual in a white shirt, and four
(unmarked on reverse) showing the individual in a black shirt. It
would seem to be. logical that the word "sets" was probably omitted from

paragraph two of the dispatch between the words “two" and "photographs."

30. That the Station was working under forced draft is clearly
apparent from the text of the dispatch, which tacked on a material fact
as a postscript. That fact was reported simultaneously by cable to ©

Headquarters at 0053Z time, 23 November:

"1. Mexico Station has photos same unidentified
American type who is possibly OSWALD entering
Cuban Embassy on 15 October. Searching for

25

StEtG RUE


13-00000

SECRET

possibility photo-documented entry Cuban Embassy

other days.

i "2. .Also attempting establish OSWALD entry and

7 departure Mexico."

31. Headquarters, at 0136Z time, 23 November 1963, asked Mexico
Station to send a staff member with all photographs to Headquarters on

the next available flight.

32. Concurrently with or before the foregoing cables to Headquarters,
the Chief of Station, Mexico City, had spoken directly by double-talk

telephone with the Western Hemisphere Chief of Division, Mr. J. C. KING,

and secured permission to give copies of the photographs of the uniden-
tified individual to the Legal Attache and to make them known to the

Ambassador.

33. What happened next is best reflected in a personal note by the

Chief of Station to the WH Division Chief, mailed to the latter fran
Dallas, together with copies of the photographs, by the Legal Attaches

representative who delivered them to the FBI fn that city.

"22 November 1963

"Dear J.C. [KING]:

"Reference is made to our conversation of 22 November

26

SECRET


13-00000
SHEACHRGEHT:

in which I requested permission to give the Legal

Attache copies of photographs of a certain person

ine who is known to you.

i : "Attached are copies of each of the photographs ~~
we have with the dates .of the visits “stamped on
the back.

"At 6 p.m. Mexico time on 22 November, The Ambas-
“sador decided that this was important ‘enough to

have a member. of the Legal Attache's office take

copies of these pictures to Dallas, Texas.’ The
Naval Attache is making a special flight from
Mexico City for this purpose. The Legal Attache's
officer who is going to Dallas has promised to

mail this material to you for me.

"Copies of these photographs are also being sent
by pouch which will leave Mexico City on the

night of 22 November 1963.

"Best wishes.

"Win [SCOTT]"

According to a sidelined comment on this letter, the Legal Attache's

officer was Eldon RUDD.

27

SECRET


13-00000

SECRET ae

34. The decision to remit the photographs to the FBI in Dallas
had been made by the Ambassador,.according to the Chief of Station, who
wee simultaneous ly with the _ agent's departure reported to Headquarters
py? by cable (0244Z time, 23 November):

afl yp.
ert 4 "FBI agent’ left here 2000 local time with two copies

re each of six photos of a person suspected to be

as OSWALD, on a special flight for Dallas. He is

4 “carrying envelope with one copy each photo for
“oy airmail special from Dallas to J. C. KING at

(Lee home as per telephone conversation with SCOTT.

One copy of each of these photos plus a copy of

each of the photos showing the same person exiting
the Cuban Embassy forwarded by memorandum leaving
by regular pouch tonight. In view of above does

Hgs still.want a staffer with additional photo(s)?"

35. Headquarters responded two hours later, 0422Z time,

23 November 1963, cancelling its request:

"1. No need send staffer with photos. We have

asked Navy for photos again, but Mexico can see

OSWALD's picture soonest on the press wire.

"2. Have just re-emphasized to FBI Headquarters

the sensitivity of photos you are sending and also
28

SECRET


SECRET a“

relaying names of travelers with similar names.
Note radio says OSWALD lived under alias of

0. H. LEE."
+ 36. On the 23rd at 1729Z time, Headquarters advised Mexico City:

“The FBI says that the photos of the man
entering the Soviet. Embassy which Mexico
Station sent to Dallas were not of Lee OSWALD.
"presume Mexico Station has double-checked
dates of these photos and’ is also checking all

pertinent photos for possible shots of OSWALD."

37. And at. this point, 2048Z time, 23 November, Mexico Station

finally agreed:

"Saw photos of Lee OSWALD on television night of
22 November and it obvious photos sent to Dallas
were not. identical with Lee OSWALD held in Dallas.

Dates are as given on photos.

"Mexico Station is reviewing all available photos
of persons entering Soviet and Cuban Embassies."

38. Two hours later (22542 time, 23 November 1963) the Station had

reported the results of its effort to review all available coverage:

29

SECRET


13-00000

1
i

= SECRET ea

“Complete recheck of photos of all visitors to
Cuban Embassy from August through first half of
November against good press photos shows no
évidence of OSWALD visit. ‘Similar blank against
all Soviet Embassy photos fron 1 September.

Note, only visit. we know he made to Cuban Embassy
28 September, Saturday, on which Embassy closed

and we'had not had coverage. . . .

39. With this communi cation the matter of. the "unidentified
individual" reaches the end of Phase I, the key element of which is the
conviction, at first latent, then expressed, that the photographed
individual might be identical with OSWALD. This applies especially to
the Station, though at a certain point even Headquarters moved no
rebuttal despite the hard fact that the description of OSWALD and the

unidentified individual were quite disparate.

40. This review has attempted-to deal even-handedly with all items
in the case record that have a bearing on what happened. The operational
zeal, innovativeness, and the high committment of all involved,
especially in Mexico City, speaks for itself. Equally apparent--
because of the 20/20 advantage of hindsight--is the evidence of
non-performance. It was a critical failure, for example, that no photo
of OSWALD was made available--though it was expressly requested both at

Headquarters and by the field--or that it was not more aggressively
30

SECRET


13-00000

SECRET aie

sought by CIA, before 22 November.. A photograph of OSWALD would have
obviated--in a way the mere possession of a correct physical description 7
evidently ‘could not--the whole successive deterioration of what began ‘in
-Mexico City as an impressionistic selection of the photograph on

J
1 October 1963 into a cause celebre today.

40. It should be clear from this factual survey that never had
there been a cause celebre with less intrinsic merit. It is equally
clear from the facts themselves that there was nothing contrived or
conspired in what happened, unless we have now descended to that point
in human values achieved under STALIN in the USSR and under HITLER in

Germany, where just a plain mistake is per se evidence of conspiracy.

The Genesis and Development of Qdum Exhibit No. 1 and

Commission Exhibit 237

41. Special Agent of the FBI, Bardwell D. ODUM, on 23 November
1963 showed one of the six photos flown up from Mexico City the previous

day to OSWALD's mother, Marguerite OSWALD. ODUM himself had trimmed off

the background by straight cuts. Mrs. OSWALD had no recognition of the

image in the photograph. ODUM's own detailed account may be found in

Hearings, op cit, Vol. XX, p. 268.

42. The photograph shows the unidentified individual in a black

shirt. It was one of the five photos taken of him in front of the Soviet

31

SECRET


13-00000

fs #2
9) Aine GS) Gh 2 vere,

(Ao wn font, gba ov 264.)


13-00000

SECRET

Embassy in Mexico City on 4 October 1963, two days after OSWALD had
left the city.

43.. At this-point, for the record, the total available photo

coverage of the unidentified individual numbers twelve (12) photographs:

a. Five (5) taken on 1 October 1963, entering and exiting the
Soviet Embassy. He is garbed in a white shirt and light-colored

(khaki-2) trousers.

b. Five (5) taken on 4 October 1963 in front of the Soviet

Embassy. He is garbed in'a dark, open, button-down shirt with a

high-neckline undershirt showing and dark trousers.

c. Two (2) taken on 15 October 1963 in front of the Cuban

Embassy. He is wearing a dark, collarless T-shirt or light sweater.

The negatives of all of these are extent and are now held in Headquarters

as integral parts of the OSWALD and related file holdings.

44. The result of ODUM's display of the photagraph--to repeat, a

+ cropped version of one of those noted under paragraph 43b, above--was
Mrs. Marguerite OSWALD's allegation that she had been shown a picture of
her son's killer, Jack RUBY, a day-before he perpetuated the deed! Again

the Warren Commission Report (pp. 364-365, 367) exhaustively disposes

of this erroneous charge and requires no repetition here. A complica-

ting fact developed along the way was Mrs. OSWALD's (correct) observation,

32

SECRET


SECRET

when she finally admitted before the Commission that the ODUM photograph
was not RUBY, was that the photo had been cropped differently from the
one she had been shown in.Dallas...Inspector MALLEY's cropped version of
the ODUM photograph became Commission Exhibit 237 (see Hearings,

vol. XVI, p. 638).

45. The net effect of the developments in the hearings of the
Commission was to require the admission of the cropped photograph into
evidence tn a chain of depositions beginning with ODUM, including the
FBI Inspector, James R. MALLEY (who had trimmed the photograph used by
the Commission in Washington), and Richard HELMS, who deposed for the
originator. These documents speak: for themselves and will be found in

the Hearings, Vol. XI, pp. 468-470.

46. Mexico Station and other senior Agency officers strongly
advised against the publication of the photograph in any form on the
grounds that the Soviets would be immediately alerted to the existence
of a useful and continuing U.S. intelligence operation, and the opera-
tion would go down the drain. There were repeated cables exchanged on
this point between Headquarters and Mexico Station during the summer
of 1964, in particular from 23 September to 15 October 1964 when the

Station had plans underway to abandon the operation.

47. In acceding to the Commission's request for a deposition,

Mr. HELMS, then the Deputy Director for Plans, replied affirmatively to
33

SECRET


my

- SECRET on

Mr. RANKIN by memorandum of 23 June 1964 which included the following

additional observation:

"The Central Intelligence Agency recommends that
A this photograph not. be reproduced in the Commis-
sion's report because it would jeopardize a most
confidential and productive operation. In
addition, it could be embarrassing to the indivi-
-dual ‘involved who as far as the Agency is aware
had no connection with Lee Harvey OSWALD or the

assassination of President KENNEDY."

48. In this instance the needs of the Commission prevailed over
the DCI's statutory obligation to protect sources and methods. The
“Unidentified Individual" remains to this day unidentified and there is
no credible evidence up to this time to rebut the assertion made by
Mr. HELMS in the concluding sentence of his memorandum to Mr. RANKIN on
23 June 1964. And the operation did, as predicted, go down-the drain.
Within a week of the public appearance of the Odum Exhibit No. 1 and
Commission Exhibit 237, members of the Soviet -Embassy began systematic
efforts to survey the surrounding buildings, ostensibly for rental
space, but clearly their inquiries were directed to spotting possible
camera sites. The operation was continued in any case. Within a year
it had become almost totally unproductive in coverage on Americans in
contact with the Embassy--a clear sign that this category of visitor

was being warned away by the Soviets themselves.

34
SECRET


13-00000



13-00000

SECRET

Phase III: The "Unidentified Man" Photographs, 1964 - 1975

49. As could be foreseen, there has been persistent pressure by
critics of the Warren Commission Report to exploit Odum Exhibit No. 1
ands Commission Exhibit No. 237 for partisan interpretive purposes. A
considerable correspondence has accumulated since the end of 1964 in
which the Agency has attempted to be responsive to these requests and,
‘Simultaneously, has tried to satisfy what has been its sole interest

from the inception of the matter: to protect the method of acquisition

relationshi |-made—the,

of the photograph andthe foreig

sacquisitton pe

50. Following are highlights from the correspondence during the

current phase.

a. On 16 May 1967, over the signature of the General Counsel
of the Agency, Lawrence R. HOUSTON, CIA voluntarily submitted a
statement about the photograph to Judge BAGERT of the Criminal
District Court for the Parish of Orleans, State of Louisiana.
The response dealt affirmatively with the contents of the subpoena
that had been delivered to the United States Marshall in the District
of Columbia, despite the fact that the subpoena could not be
executed because of the lack of jurisdiction.

Mr. HOUSTON proferred on Agency behalf categoric assur-

ances to the court regarding the inaccuracy of statements and

35

SECRET


a ql : SECRET

inferences made by Mr. GARRISON in New Orleans. about the photograph

at _ of the unidentified individual. The following is extracted from

Mr. HOUSTON's memorandum.

he . "Because of the publicity which has surrounded the
aa Orleans Parish Grand. Jury proceedings, we have

: recently carried out an exhaustive search of the
files of the Central Intelligence Agency for any

‘picture of Lee Harvey OSWALD taken in Mexico. As

a result of this search, I can state categorically
that the files of this Agency do not contain, and

never have contained, any such picture of

Lee Harvey OSWALD taken in Mexico and that we have

no information whatsoever that any such photograph

ever existed. To the best of our knowledge and

information, therefore, there is no such photograph.

Furthermore, the photograph which is printed in the
Warren Commission Report, Exhibit No. 237 in Volume
XVI, never contained more than one figure, and the
figure in the photograph depicts an individual who,
to our knowledge, has not been identified. The

circumstances of the filing of this photograph with

the Warren Commission are set forth in affidavits

on pages 468 and 469 of Volume XI, Hearings Before

the President's Commission on the Assassination of

36

cecroper


SECRET 7

President Kennedy. Consequently, we have no record
of any photograph that ariswers in any way the.

description of -the one we understand was. requested :

jin the subpoena.

"IT hope you will accept this information in ‘this i

form in the spirit of cooperation in which i

proferred,"

'b. The Agency has repeatedly serviced requests about the.
identify of the unknown individual from Mr. Emory (ie BROWN, dre,
Route #4, Box 82, Squankum Road, Farmingdale, New Jersey. The last.
exchange of correspondence in our record covered the period *

4 - 17 April 1970.

c. Detailed inquiries on. the unidentified individual were
received on 1 and 24 November 1971, to which the Agency responded
on 15 November and 14 December, respectively, from:

Mr. Paul L. HOCH, 1735-Highland Place #2, Berkeley, California.

d. The most extensive effort to pursue the unidentified
individual was and is being made by Bernard FENSTERWALD, Jr. who
is now Executive Director of a Committee to Investigate Assassina-
tions, 927 55th Street, N.W., Washington, D.C., beginning on
22 March 1971, shortly after the Agency declassified Commission
Document No. 674, and extending through 11 October 1972, after the

37

SECRET


be SECRET

-FBI's declassification of Commission Document No. 556. On 8 April

1971, Mr. FENSTERWALD was invited to the Agency for-a-discussion
with the General Counsel, Mr. HOUSTON, of: his question about the
photograph of. the unknown individual. Two other photographs of
the unidentified individual, in addition to the photograph
depicted in the two Commission exhibits, were shown to him at that
time. -It is a matter of more than ordinary interest to note that
on this occasion Mr. FENSTERWALD, who was accompanied by his

partner, Mr. William OHLHAUSEN, told Mr. HOUSTON and another

representative of the Agency in attendance that he knew who the
unidentified man was. The following is extracted from Mr. HOUSTON's

ian Memorandum of Record, 8 April 1971:

"3. Mr. FENSTERWALD came to my office this
morning with his partner, William G. OHLHAUSEN,
looked at’ the other photographs, and told us he
did know who the man was. He said he is presently
serving a prison term somewhere in the United

A States and admitted that he had known OSWALD, but
Mr. FENSTERWALD said there was nothing to indicate
any connection between the man in the photographs
and the assassination of President KENNEDY.
Mr. FENSTERWALD did not give us the man's name at
this time, as he said enough people had suffered

unnecessarily from allegations that they were

38


13-00000

SECRET la

associated with the assassination, but he did

say he was sure we had a file on the man. He

asked if he could have’the photographs, ‘and I

asked how he could use them. He said he did

not know and finally agreed that for the time
being he would not press his request... .
The whole meeting was extremely friendly and

they thanked us for our response."

The following is extracted from the Memorandum of. Record

by the other CIA man present, Mr. Arthur E. DOOLEY.

fe “Mr. FENSTERWALD said he knew who the person
, was and had spoken to him; that the man was too
nervous to cone forth on his own. FENSTERWALD
would not give the man's name but said he is an
if American, serving a prison term in this country
on a criminal charge, and that he had met: OSWALD
in Mexico. I asked whether the prisoner had any
conspiratorial relationship with OSWALD.

FENSTERWALD replied he did not know the answer

as he had not interviewed the man as yet. We
reiterated that we did not know who the man
was, and said that we would like to know his

identity. FENSTERWALD replied that CIA has a

39

SECRET


13-00000

oN

im SECRET =

. thick file on the unknown man, and that we will

be furnished his name in due course... .“

Mr .. FENSTERWALD made no reference in his, subsequent
.¢ conversations and correspondence to this allegation about the identity
of the "Unidentified Individual," though the claim, if true, would
be of direct evidential interest and possibly permit us to assert
with finality what we believe. has been the fact from the beginning:

the “Unidentified Man" has nothing to do with the OSWALD case at all.

Attachment A: Memorandum by David W. Belin to Mr. E. Harry Knoche,
dated 15 April 1975, with attachment: "The CIA and
the Man Who. Was Not Oswald" from the New York Review
of Books, by Bernard Fensterwald and George O'Toole.

Attachment B: Pages 364, 365, and 667 from the Warren Conmission’s
report. :

40

SECRET


N CIA ACTIVITIES WITHIN TH.
Washington, DC 20500

(
COMMIS L.0"

SUALES

Halson A. Rockefeller,
Chairman

Joha T. Connor

C. Dous!

Ervin N. Griswold

iekland

Lyman L. Lemnitzer

Ronald Reagan

April

Edgar F. Shannon, Jr.

Mc. E. Henry Knoche
Assistant to the Director
Central Intelligence Agency
Washington, D.C.

Dear Mr. Knoche:

ATTACHMENT A
David W. Belin,
Executive Director

15, 1975

As you know, Lee Harvey Oswald was in Mexico City in

late September and early October, 1963.

Shortly after

he left Mexico City a photograph was taken of an American
male and a question was raised whether or not this male was

Lee Harvey Oswald.

The CIA and the Warren Commission both .

determined that the picture was not of Lee Harvey Oswald
and that the picture was taken after Oswald left Mexico

City. |

Although portions of this record have been released to the
public, other portions have remained classified because

of concerns by the CIA at the

time that a release of the

full picture might disclose sources and methods which the
CIA felt were not in the national interest to disclose at

that time.

In light of the false allegations about the

assassination of President Kennedy and the false allegations
of CIA involvement, I feel that it would be appropriate to
reconsider whether or not the entire matter can be fully

disclosed at this time.

I would like to receive by April 22 @ full report from

the CIA on this entire matter.

Sincerely yours,

Executive Director

Gf Bay


13-00000

Ths CiA and

\Six weeks dsfore the ‘assassination of
iPresident’ Xennedy.on November~ 22,
63, the Central Intelligence Ageacy
the following teletype message ta.
2 Federal Bureau of- Investigation
4 the Departments of State and the

Subject: Les Henry OSWALD

"1, On 1 October-1963- a reliable’
and seasitive source’ ih Mexico
that an Amezican male,
idectitied “himself as Lee
OSWALD, contacted’ the Soviet
Bnbassy in Mexico City ifquiring
whether the Embassy had received
aay news conceming a telegram”
which had been sent to Washing.
ton, Ta: American was described
2s approximately 35 years old,
with an athletic build, about six”
: feet tall, with a receding hairline.
i, 2. It is believed that OSWALD
- |. Mays 2 identical to.Lee Henry
; OSWALD, bom on 18 October
1939 in New Orleans, Louisiana. A
former U.S. Marine who defected
to the Soviet Unign in October
1959-and later made arrangement
through the United States Em-
bessy in Moscow to retum to the
United. Srates with his Russian-
, Marina Nikolaevna
Pusakova, and their child. °

3. The information in paragraph
cm is being disseminated to your
ves in Mexico City.
information received

is- being
igration

information

Lee Henry Oswald of the

e Harvey O: ? Yes,
5, then chief
Clandestine Ssrvices,
+ memorandum to J.
counsel to Ul

‘the Bian Who

Bemard Fensterwald and
Georgs O'Toole

erroneously given as ‘Henry’ in the
subject linevand.ia paragraph two of
‘the dissemination. .: The maiden. sur-
name of Mes. OSWALD was mistakenly.
listed as ‘PUSAKOVA.’ "2 lls
oc But ‘Leo Harvey Oswald - was: not
“approximatsiy 35 years old, with an
athistic build’; he: was: twenty-three
years oid and slender.> Apparently the
CIA. was concerned about the’ dis-
crepancy, for on October 23 it seat
the following. message to tae Départ~
ment-of the Navy: :

Subject: Lee Henry OSWALD ~

: ‘Reference is made to CIA Out |
Teletype No. 74673 [the earlier
message], dated 10 October 1963,
regarding’ possible presence of sub-
ject in Mexico Gity. It is requested
“that you forward to this office as
soon as possible two copies of the
most recent photograph you have _
_of subject. We will forward them
to our representative in. Mexico,
who’ will attempt to determine if
the Lee OSWALD in Mexico City

and_ subject are the same individ- _

wal.* cece

Singe Oswald Had served -in the
Marine Corps, which comes: under the

y.

administration of the Navy, his person--

nel records would have included: his
photograph, A
What the Agency did not say in this
cable is that it had in its possession a~
photograph of the man who had
apparently “identified himseli” 2s Os-
wald. The man in the CiA photo was
not Lee Harvey Oswald; he was, just as
the Agency's “rejiable and - sensitive
source” had described him, approxi-
mately thirty-five years. old, with an
athletic build end a receding hairline,
ee According to a memorandum by
Helms, the CIA never received the
Navy's pictues of Oswald -and only
concluded after the’ assassination that

i people were involved.>

nwhile, the photograph was deliv-
sred to the FBI on November 22,
ives.

&

Wess

3

‘ot Oswald

1 One can onl,
J ly guess at the confusi
“eaused by the picture. The FBT Baad
no Navy Photograph to establish th:
thé mystery msn was not Oswald—Li
Harvey Oswald was. sittidg handcvffe
in a third-flcor office of the Dall
police headquarters. The mext da
Special Agent Bardwell D.-Odum wi
- dispatched with the -photograoh to th
motel where Oswald's wife and moth
swere hidden, He showed the picture t
Mrs. Marguerite Oswald, mother of th
accused assassin, Mrs. Oswald looked ¢
the -photo .and told Odum she dida’
_fecognize the man.? The followin
day, however, shortly after her son wa
murdered in the basement of Dalla
City Hall, Mrs. Oswald erronzous]:
identified the mystery man, She tol:
the press the FRE had shown her;
Picture of Jack Ruby the night before
« Mrs. Oswald's mistake. was. under
standable-the mystery man ‘bore :
superficial resemblances. to Jack Ruby
and in her recollection of a brie:
glance at the photograph, two face:
became one. But the snisidentificatior
made it necessary for the Warrer
Commission to refer, however oblique
ly, to the aftair of the mystery man.
In the twenty-six volumes of Published
estimony and evidence supplemen ary
te the Warren Report, the Commission
printed the picture that was shown to

Mis. Oswald.? The Warten Report
contains a very brief account of the
incident. tee

“According to the Report, the CLA
hed provided the FBI with 2 photo-
graph of Sa maa who, it was thought,
at the tims, might have been associated
with Oswaid.”? The Report quoted an
attidavit by “Richard Helms that “the
original photograph had been take by
the CIA outside of the United States

ime between July 1, 1963 and
22, 1ag2 nto

n o Commission's expluaction” is
77 otk ieascsrata and misleading. The

rap!



iran. was imperso(

sree
Oswald? The CA said they wor”
check further and cait him back.
lawyer tld Epstein that they nev:
called him back and the Warren Report
contains no explanation of the Agea-
2 Harvey Oswald, + cy's raistaxe.'7 another Oswald Doppetgingzr?

\.The troth was further obscured by yp, Another piece of the puzzle fell into arin evidenc: of the: existence o
he Report's reference to the Helms iplace early in 1971, when the National | additional photographs of the unident
idavit, which described the circhm- Archives released a previously classified i
‘ances in which the. mystery man was ~ memorandum about the mystery maa
tographed only in the most vague . from’ Richard Helms to the Commis-

ith Lee Harvey Oswaid, ent
who had visited bosh the Soviet ani
Cuban embassies, Was it the sam
mystery man whose picture had b22)
shown to Mrs, Oswald?. Or was it ye

the photograph and the
“cvatacted” the Soviet Em-

man .mentioned in the War
port was- turned up. by Rove:
Smith, a private. researcher. In 197

gust 7, 1964."* However, the
im never mentioned in its

‘The original photograph,”*
: , “wes taken in Mexico
. icy ‘on October 4,°1963.%? (This
Svjeastier ‘Helms affidavit was released in
through: the efforts of Paul Hoch,
# pejvate researcher.) .°
there is no available record that
| Pichard Helms ever told thé Warren
{Commission exacily where in’ Mexico
lity, the mystery man was photo-
graphed, but the circtimstances in
which the photograph was given to the
|| Commission ‘offer. a very plausible
isuggestion. The CIA required the FBI
to crop out the background: in- the
“|photo before handing it.over to the
Commission.'* The obvious conclusion
is that the photograpli was taken by a
‘hidden surveillance camera, and the
CIA wished: to avoid disclosing its
‘location. According to knowledgeable
‘former employess of .the CIA, the
“Soviet and Cuban embassies, among
rothers in Mexico City, wert under
stant photographie surveillance at
time, It seems likely. then that the.
according to at CIA,

pned ten Texice City
embassy of the Soviet Union or of
me othe: communist couniry.

Whe first py

i teey man.

blic hint that the mys--
y have been impersonating
1966, the publi-

botacly study of the Warren
5 Epstein d
Commission’s legal staff
| the incident, He seid he
nad asked Raymond G. Rocca, the

ceived word fom the Agency
7 man was gat to be
2 the photo:

azh was

nd genscel teams, The affidavit was

memo informed Rankin:

iG Helas's cov:
Fiemed that “whe sadj
scaphs_meationzd in

general counsel, J. Lee Rank-
Dated March 24,; i964, the

On 22 end 23 November, im-
mediately following the assessie
nation of President Kennedy, thse
cabled reports were received’ from
{deleted} in Mexico City relative
to photographs of an unidentified -
man who visited the Cuban and

+ Soviet Embassies in that city dur
ing October and November
1963... :

1% on the basis of these cables, Helms

went on to say, the CIA had sent
séveral reports to the Secret Service.
Attached to the Helms memorandum
“were. paraphrases of these reports?°
Two dealt with the mystery man:

Message to ‘the Protective Re- *

search Staff, The Secret Service,
‘delivered by hand on 23 Novem-
bar 1963, at 1030 hours.

Through sources available. to it,
‘the CIA {deleted} had come into
possession of a photograph of an
unidentified person thought: to”
have visited the Cuban Embassy in
mid-October, This individual, it
was believed at the time, might b=
identical with Lee “Harvey OS-
WALD?! — ot

and, +

Message to the Protective Re-
starch Staff, The Secret Service,
delivered by hand on 23 Novem-
ber 1953, 2t 1030 hours.

CIA Headquarters was informed
[deleted] on 23 November th
several photographs of a person
known to frequent the Soviet.
Embassy ia Mexico City, and who
might be identical with Lee Har
vey OSWALD, had bzen forwarded
to Washington by 2 hend of a
United States of returning to
this county

3 memorandum af:
of photo
ase reports is

Smith, then research’ director for th
Commission to Tavestigate Assassin:

tions, was poring over some recenti

declassified Warren Commission doct

. ments when he found reference to tt
” mystery photo and two. other views «

He same person.?* Smith called f
“@iscovery to the attention of one «
the authors, Bemard Fensterwald, wi
instituted @ suit under the Freedom +
Information Act for release of thé tv

pictures. The government yielded zt

tured over the photograshs to Fe
sterwald end Smith, They are. pu

jshed here for the first tims.

‘The two- new views. of the myste
man were taken -at a different tic
from the first picture. In the fir
_picture, the one published int

_ Warren Commission. volumes, he’

wearing a long-sleeved’ dark shirt 2
appears empty-handed; in the two nt
photos he is wearing a short-sleev
white shirt and is carrying “some ki
of bag or pouch, The new photos al
show him holding'.a small, passpa
sized booklet and what appeurs to be
wallet. As in the first photograph, t
backgrounds of the two new pho!
have been ‘cropped out, Whoever
was, he managed t6 be photograph.
apparently by the CIA's hidden s
veillance cameras, on at least |

". separate’ occasions. And naither of

ew photography reveals any, res.
Dlance between the mystery. man
Lee Harvey Oswald..

: ahs Warren Commission coactx

hat Oswald had been in Mexico in
September and. early October: 1S
Records of Mexican Customs
migretion, bus. lines, and a Mexico (
hotel indicate ‘that Oswald ents
Mexico at Nuevo Laredo on the

” border on September 26, traveled

bus to Mexico City, arriving there
next m
United States on October 3.7* Pas
gers on the bus to Mexico ¢



13-00000

le
-

the Soviet and Cubaa embassies
' rests heavily upon the affidavit of one
: 2 Mexican woman’ “who
ed at the’ Cuban Embassy.?7

ia Tizdo de Duran was secretary
< tothe Cuban Consul in Mexico City.
“* In a swom stutement?® she gave to the
ctor of Mexican Federal
ity on November 23, 1963, she
said that Oswald had visited the Cuban
a lute September to apply
to visit Cuba during a *
the Soviet Union, Mrs.
2 heated exchange ba-
and the Consu! when
equest

nZ a “semiotficial”
Sovie! Embassy to

newsSager reporter tried to interview”
hec in April 1964, Her husband would.
not permit the man to speak.with her,
saying, “she had suffered a nervous
breakdown following her interrogation
by the Mexican authorities and had
been prohibited by her physician.
from discussing the Oswald matter
further”>° If this report is, correct,
.the interrogation of Silvia Duran: may
have been a more emotional interview
than one would conclude’‘from. the

report forwarded by the Mexican po- -

lice. The teport gives the impression
that the police were routinely collect-
ing information about Oswald’s Mexi-
can trip for the American authorities.
One question that arises is whether
Duran’s statement was given volua-
ot, whether her identi-
fication of Oswald as the visitor ta the
embassy is valid,

Li the Warrea Commission
Or

for example.
cation for a Cuban

otogrech and signa
riehy written

moreover, Contapted Duran’s name an
telephone ‘mumber. But the only cred
ible eyewitness testinooy that Oswak
in fact “visited” the embassy” is) thi
statement of Silvia Duran. fa
fy When ¥iewed inthe light of th
cenily disclosed evidence suggestin:
* that somzone’ might have visited thi
“erabassy.. impersonating Oswald, th:
‘Conimissioa’s failure to. settle com
pistely the “question of the thre:
‘misidentified pXotos - seems éxtraor
inary. It is probable that the CLA dic
in fact supply an explanation of the
photographs that was enough to satisfy
the Commission at the time. If so, thal
explanation remains a part of th:
classified Warren Commission. docu.
ments not available to the public,
Raymond Rocea (who, until hi:
Vcecent resignation, was the Agency’:
action officer for all post-Warren Re
port inquiries about the matter) told
- one of the authors that the CIA could
not identity. the mystecy mon Tf this &
30, we may Won Row the Agency
could have offered 2 satisfactory ex-
planation of the incideat to the Com.
additions! documents
ing on this matter are declassified,
the conclusion that Osw:
ed the Cxbaa Embessy must remain in
some Goud! But even if he did, the
question
theless trying to impersonate him re-
jal one,



t be drawn from this diss

ery? One obvious interpretation is

in between the man who
io become the accused
sidential assassin and the govern
ents of thass two communist coun
ies,” But it is not necessary to
lanieens If someone were

vy, is setioudy undermined’ ond
“132 ‘should de" reopened.
‘could be, of “cours, an

Hacvey Oswald: Oswald may
ahave visited:
mbassias, If this were the case,
eay somewhere ‘in’ the CIA’s files
ere should be photographs of the
eal Lee Harvey Oswald departing from
the: Soviet and Cuban embassies in
“cMexico City. If those photographs
ist, théie pubolicdtion would help to
“jattte the que:
PIA shauld now explain why not. In
¥ case, it should also disclose What
knows about the man it wrongly
fied’ as Oswald on two separate
decasiona, It should. explain why it
velizves that this man was not imper-
jonating Oswald. Alt these matters
ould be clarified both by. the CIA
Fseig and by the coAgressional com-
tees that are about to investigate its
petivities,, Qo
|

t
t
?

of 1963, what implica- *!

gaat Oswald iat | :

nt explanation’ of how the CIA |
misidentify “the. mystery man -

2 Cuban and.

n, If they don’t, the -

Th Ngtional ArChives,- Washington,

~ DC. (aan
" 2Yyid. Her cofract maiden name was *
Prusakova,

Report of the Presicent’s Commission
on the Asscssination of Pr:
nedy (US Government Pris
1964), p, 144. (Heteafter, Report.)

*Commission Document 631, op cit.
ibid, i :

| SHearings Before the Presideat’s Com-
° mission on the Assassination of Presi=
dent Kennedy (US Government Print-
ing Office, 1954), Vol. 11, ‘p.- 469.

ereafter, ‘Heavings). see
idid.; p. 483.
*Ibid., Odum Exhibit 1.

Report, p. 364.
_ ibid, pp. 364.365,
"Hearings, Voi: 11, p. 469:

*2Commission Document 1787, The
National Archives, Washington, De,

7 Tid. : -
1 Hearings, Vol. 11, p. 469. :
*SEdward Jay Epstein, Inquest: The
Warren Commission and the Establisi«
ment of Trath (Vikiaz, 1966).
16Mr. Rocea, ‘deputy chief of the
Cla’s Counterintelligence - Staff, was
one of the four senior Agency officials
who resigned, last “Decemoer in the
wake of The New York Times's revela-
tions of illegal domestic operations by
thé CIA's Clandestine Services,

' 7 Epstein, Inquest, p. 94,
*SCommission Document 674, The

* National Archives, Washington, DC,
rid,
2° Tbid,

71 Foid, ‘
27 1bid,

S36,

BERNARD FENSTERWALD is Director of the Com-
mittse to {Investigate Assassinations and was Chief
Counsel for Senator Edward Long’s investigation of
government wiretapping, CEORGE O'TOOLE is the
former chief of ¢ roblem Analysis Branch of the
CIA. His books include a novel, An Agent on the
4, most recently, Taz Assazsi
nic Probe into the Murder of fone
Dalles Coverup.

Tapes:
F, Kennedy and

*“Commissioa Document

366, ‘Th
National Acchives, Washi:

ton, DC, np

*5 Report, ‘p. 299.
?6Ibid., pp. 733-736.

*7ivid., p. 734. Two othec witn
told the FBI they saw Oswald 4
Cuban Embassy. A Mexicen private
detective who had visited the embassy
on October I, 1963, identified Oswaid
from newspaper photowraghs as some
one he had seen leaving the embassy
on that date in the company of ¢
Cuban. The detective was shown othe.
photos of Oswald and. failed ‘to iden
tify him, and the FAI seems to hav
concluded that he was mistaken (Com
mission: Document 566). The W:
eport dots not’ offer the detective’
testimony as evidence of Oswald's visi?
Another witness who claimed to hay
secon Oswald at the Cuban Entbass:
retracted his testimony after failing b
poss a polygraph examination (Repori
p. 308). -
?Commission Documeat 77éa, Th
National Archives, Washington, DC.

7 Ibid. p. 5.0” 7
“2°Commission Document 963, ‘T
National icine Meee ne,
16, lucene!

3 "Hearings; Commission Exhibit 25E
*? Ibid, Commission Exhibit 15

