# 104-10011-10045

## Page 1

104-10011-10045

SERFURANK

DISPATCH

SECRETI

Call, Western tentephere Diviaton

Chaes, WH/C00

3P

MIOCIILINO ACIION

по шоне парнем

CAN SION MORNI

PARDEN The WRING" Operation

rence! HIMA 31977

lo Forwardod an Attachmant One under separate cover are reports

prepared by Wallace B, ROWION on the ectivition of LIBINO»}, dated 9,

1d, 26, 29, 25, 26 and 27 kay 1967.

Jorarded ao Attachment Tro, also

under separate

cover, ero photocaples of correspondance enchanged between

Ln in Maico City and

J1n Havena, Vorwarded an Attach-

mont Three hererich, de a pamphlet obtalned by LInINC»3 which contalas

the tast of the masage allegedly sent the Iri Continental organiention

by Ernesto "Che" GUIVARA.

2• There 1a JIctle question that LIRING»} wot often ask himelf

Just where his ancoctation sich Boron lo taking him and mut peculace

about June what nOrToN 1o after-

There are obvioualy eimes wbea, left

so conjectures and supposilions, WRINal mat feel like "quicting."

Yot, the ascendancy gradually developed by HONION over LIBIn-J has

ranched the polas where IIRINg»3 de unwilling to go back to the drab,

uninterestios 11fe ha lived bofore moting RONION. The redulE of LIRING-J',

"second thoughta" has up to now been a

desire, In the end, to collaborate

BOUTON'a report dated 13 May, and nore

particularly, LIRtio»3 a cribble attached to that report, give an 10d1-.

cation of the confuston which extoto lo LIRINg-j' mind no a reoult of

the contacto he malocains at souroN's urging wich the Cubens, Cuntanlen

roboto, nod vartous shades of Moxican and Central American leftsats.

CONTINUED..•

Attachment a &

•1 " Reporte a/s pare l USC

02 - Correspondence a/s pare 1 USC

03 - Pampblot als pare I HKREWITH

APERTURE CARD

OwED waste

= 5/m/c08 4/0 at** Document Number 1984-965

1 • VILES

for FOIA Review on

SEP 1976

REPRODUCTIONS

GOPU

201-798301

DATE

X Not po 201-289248

13 June 1967

SECRET

201-798301

prating and

Castrogl

---

## Page 2

13-00000

as on dea

CONTINUATION OP

DISPATCH

SECKETT

КИ 1324

SEEKEL KOP

In addiçtos LIning, a professonal artial, linde himelt tavolved le

he developmant of a commoreta, venture, an undertaking for wisen ba a

I equipped. Tose car shortoening requires very dose tienee ly

Real and, do taro, mios blindy even more copendent on ho cao o1icer.

Thus, while LRYNO g oconotonally thinke of roturning o pointing and

diving art lonson and develope qualme about toklag noney from lOWPON for

what he cometdere to be little resule, LINIE-S koape Involving Minel!

despor and desper in aotivities of loterer to nOTON.

9o

Tbe above does not conn that Linisa-y'o sotivities abould bot

be subjected to evary operational control povolble, on che contrary.

IIIng'a story concerning the manner in uniah birch cortiploated can

bo obtained In Nortbero Manico to nocure valid Moulcon passport continues,

for example, to be suspect. It pou appoore, on the other head, that

"GARCIA" of the Quatonolas VAR oxtoto (LIRINO», talkod to him) and chat

be doon not want LIRIO] to cone lo contact with other Montoo reoldente

connected wich the Quatemalan guerrillne euch no che alleged VAl propogmada

representative st che UNAY Univeralty, LInINO) la conviaced he can lay

on a meeting vich GARCIA in advaoce

no that RONTON con have a look at

cho Quaranian. In spite of GARCIA'o cautIousness, such a modelas has

o taka place nooner or later. tna station de ready. It aLeo appeer

bat for reasons as yot uneloar, Moxican loftlete ouch a Serglo VAlDI

Houl FruNO and othera are seeking LIRINQ-1 and appear to wear conching

from him.

BOuTON's secant efforts to develop LIRIIC-4'e potential regardias

LInING and st'e staff paid off whon LIBINo. was aoked co "f1il 1a" uben

one of tho docrotarios to LIRIC-g'e soction had to retura hom cesporarily

on sick leave.

It already appears that LInINe, on exportenced band ta

ImINO D'o overe buriness, vill bo siven quite a bit of respondbility la

chat office.

It do hoped thet by bocomog quand lodi pancable che will

be ooked to rerala st LIRING after the roturo of the poreon for wbon abe

so "91111ng tu." kinIte, thile vory much in love wich ber buaband, ha

a miod of her own, a great likdog for nowrcal and, according to LIlInday

himself, an Intolligence much suparior to hit.

she de aloo gifted with

Ortental type postence. With LInIt-3'a knowledge, Bowson has otarted

to make small paymenta to LININ», to provide separate financial lncestive

and holp her pay for furniture and other iteme she purchased on eredie

sons time ago.

The skotch rationed in the last paragraph of novrol"a report

dated 26 iny was retained by thie station.

BorrOl used thie sketch to

diacuon with LInIn- the layout of LInIN-l's section. The statemant

made at the end of paragraph 4 of the report dated 27 My le in ertor.

LnIng-g's oction has two telephones.

What IrRIn- took for a thard

phone 1n the baci room of that section 1e 1n reality an intereon unsee

200 740-720

called to paregrophs a through 5 os

Tha foot that 812vlOrDiRAN had semal

was in taxieo city la probably no, but adda little to the OskAld case.

The Inmean pollen did not report the extent of the DURAN OVALD re"

letionahip to thie station.

lo The rooule of scatton filo checke on VAIDEY ODd MITRO WAre

Indionted in the roference.

Those on arcale end Bugente CLoull ere

boing forarded in a dispatch covering LInIng's sotivities, There

ATO nO ErECOA On PAS ISYIJO, SIIVIA DURAN and TeresA MONIZA are voLo

Amova to Enadquartere. Dollpo ROJAS Morales 1u an employee of the Mateo

City Cuban Innican Cultural Inetitute.

sagmand

tradges.

APERTURE CARD

REPRODUCTIONS

---

## Page 3

13-00000

•CONTINUATION OF DISPATCH

#08 +9ВР0ĐĐG0Т9

INCHAND MPORMATION

8

INSTRUCTIONSE AnY "ASTION" after 201- 1l number anoded

PAT

Bapojo

PRE TARA ALIMA. MAIDEND

..

→ M4

HM-98849

600

+9668669181

18 1

201.

• 43

A & be 8

jerglo

VALDEL

DATE OF DIRT

201.

hd +080060

Hendro

MIXIEN

Manhean

ADOIVIOHLAA INPOMIIATION

Amnican leftia

•IVEN NAME

Raul

MOR ENO

DATE OF DINTH

201-

AFTER

ECEUPATiON

199160

145.

PIONAL IMPORTATION:

Mexican leftlor

APERTURE CARS REPHOBUETIONS

GIVEN NAME

SWANT LEE HARVEY IM

MIDOLE MANE

801-289248

DCCUPATION

OVER BANIS • EVATE TYPE (ARA, ALIAO, MAIDENT

PAGAJPARAG

ЗАА. ІНФОММАТОМ.

ATrIM, RoNorT duTEd 26 MAy67. PARA-3 Through

5. Ra SUbTIS RALATIONSGOR WITh SILVIA DAAN,

201-740720

DATI OF BIR

SIVEN NAME

SILLION BAT

MIDOLE NAME

201-74 0 720

CITY/TOWN OF BETH

OCCUPATION

OINT MANIES • EVATE TYPE TANA ALIAS, MAIDENT

PALAURAG

SETTSE INPDGNATIOWIFN OF HORACIO DUMAN, AS ATT MIROPORT

dATed 26 MAY61 PARA 3THROUGHS, BO SUGGRULATIONSHWITE

---

## Page 4

13-00000

SECRET/KAP. JK

3P

Mó 1100, Mago 18

1o 1967.

queri da

Tarde pero conteato la ourti que ne envidete por

conduoto de Andrea, La bija de Cari 9u. Aprovecho la ora-

•16n para mondarto los aspatou que lesenbas y te pido per

done& *

•1 tardansa. Ojala a1 viajao & Chile pudieras p..oar

por lêrloo pues tengo desede do charlar largo oontigo.

Ultimamente be estado viaja do al sur y tongo i.oun

tos de gran interde que espero con, 20a0. Bepero que nr con

testee, cuando lo hagua utiliza el medio del Consulivo, o

o1 prelieroe dalo la corta a Luoll, para que ella se encargue

de mandarla por medio dol MIlIREX.

To ouplioo saluduo al domimanto... ant cono a todin

Lao jeroonao on quienos tenemoo nuruo intorto y uniolid.

Tu roolbo mentroe não cordiales si ludoo.

---

PERTURE GARD REPRODUCTORS,

---

## Page 5

13-00000

SECRET /KAPOX

1A

Disni'o

APERTURE GARD REPRODUGTIONS

SECRET KAPOX

---

## Page 6

13-0*

мини

si aquí decaido

apie a da pirque e de miele y re:

s cindica pacte mañana a leet.eo

jo, de con postine

Recita que Maria Pa, as queira eun

Prego y

sa i zapats de sle pste para su hija,

tria nudio; yo pensé pedirlo a é ile en

aviçó que no partió, por lo que É niegos,

cuando melvás: Puedes manidãe s om

juro purama que venga e peo: Cubana. -è su

su armadilid: i te

porque 1. Pa lo clican. -"

anteno

:' si coligo, de no fueda no co

srica necesitã, algo de agri, dio

hen, nis info dentele der

801806800

tifo

anal, sopio do todo di

crienos a.

/ vạ

hazo in saludos de i Fil...

Tra,

URE CARD REPRODUCTIONS

---

