104-10486-10325} : eek

Oe ee ona : ic. : _RETURNTO.-CIA
eerie ae . ~ Background Use Only
z Do Not Reproduce 4

DSIAIGFINS OF NAUL

uw

. : Thea,

= ne a come

wa Lotter’ *aated 20 Apeid 1968. atdecosed to” ‘Seipeto vita ‘and

signed TAGISTO". This lettce request PNILA‘to assist. bearer.”

suas given to ‘eekly, the Deo

a i intrafuce aia to the 26t ofticer ai signed to Prague. wasusTO" ts peso

y cise of OGL (“AGESTO") ‘to! *

uscd within the DGL for’ ths, Deputy cate who is :nown in the.

Foreiga Selations-as "GAIN",
i.

2. XING explained chat the head of the sexvico, Manuel PENSINO, ~

went to Moscow on a trip Leaving Guba 11 April 1964, ‘The Source (A-1)

turned fron Mexico on 23 March 1964, After the departures

gently had

PINEERO the Source told the Deputy Chief that it

Source, to go to Prague so that he could geet on 22 April with — y

Sotto CMUTLLAS Di1G390, the Secretary General, PRU in SL Salvador,

These are the true nae ant pos:

on of CARRILLAS but the Soerce invented fy
tha reason for making an operitional necting in Prague knowing that,2™A,
Deputy Grief of the Sarvice would not Enow any better, (The Sourcé ,

gone to Lexico on M+ Nareh 1964 Cor the purp.se of holding a necting -

with CARUILLIS and other neabers of the Conmunist varty from Zl Salvador,

but the secting really did fot take place because the Salvadorians failed

to appear, In talking to the Deputy Chief of the Service, the Source said :
r i . i
“ that he hada Beeting in

‘ico Which nade it necescar, for hin to have a

pecting in Prague with CAARILAS, who had to be in Prague for stil! another



h

-2-

neoting relating to rovoluttonary activitics to bs carried out in

_Bi-Batvador.) ‘The ’Source did this because it sconéd to Riz the best .

* ty of getting out of. Cuba with docuscats thich he had
Source™ was “successful in convincing tha Deputy Chict of the’ Sarvice that’

~ the operational aceting th Péagua vas a necessary Follow-up to the :

““Soures*s. regent-titp to Zoxteos When Source prepated his priegesce fer

the tet att of Guba he found that only apart of the dodisents which

ig: had beon collecting would fit, a sclected those whieh appeared
* most interesting and left the others locked in his office in the DSI.

“ It was the Source's intention to seck asylum once he arrived in tho

free world at the first stop in Canada and to request kx that he ba

pemaitted to go to the U.S. vith the documents to surrender thea to

KUBARK,

3, Source collected the documents over a period of tine at

considerable risk because a number of the documents were in the possession ~~

“of otlier CUIS officers in their desks or safes, Source nage it a custon
to visit these offices and to take advantage of the tesporary absence of

the officers assigned to them to’steal the documents which he then put in
his om safe,

“4, ‘The Source was quite worried because he feared that then he arrived
at the airjort to Leave Cuba he might be required to open his briefcase,
This fear proved groundless, and he was able to leave Cuba'on 21 April 64
ona flight for Prague which had tostop at Halifax, Canada,

S. Prior to leaving Cubaf the Source withdrew from his savings
account in a Cuban bank all that he had which azounted to 1270 G:ban

pesos, He gave this amount to his wife whose nane is Luisa R0D2IGUE:

Rodriguez (maiden name same as married daze), In giving tha roney to har



he did not say that he intended to defect and, in fact.
Ue kept her dgnotin

nad siven, her. any + fndfeation of nto plang: to ‘do 0.”
of his’ intentions ‘eesp te the fact that she ‘and her Cathers: ‘aro oppoted’

“to the Castro Reging cause he felt it better for her not to. bo ‘burdened

In giving ‘her the money he caid that possibly.he

with guilty. knowledge,
‘would bé delayed in'Pragua because’ the matter he had to, dteeuss was

conplicated, lie told’hot therefore that he would fecl better’ thoubnig

that ‘she had sufficient fuiids at hand to taxc care of any: “ecorgenetes in

previous narsiage);:a-boy,

connectjon rita herself er her children (by
Vineenke, 13 years old, and a girl, Francjéea, 12 years old. :

je The CUIS (DGI) sent a cable to Prague to advise taat the Source

would be arriving. Accordingly,when the Source left the plane at Malifax

it was a foregone conclusion that his failure to arrive as scheduled vould
de reported to his oun Service.
7, In addition, when the Source did arrive at ilalifac the pilot and

- erew of the airplane and the other passenjers becane avare of the fact

that he had requested asylum in the free world. They called hin a traitor

which led hin to statg that he was no nore a traitor for leaving the present

Regine than Fidel GjStro was for opposing the Batista Regine, The inter=

change of coments ftetwesn the Source and those whe vere continuing on the

flight to Prague almost resulted in a fist fignvat Naligax, The Source
took from Guba 32615 in U.S. dills . veactically all of this azount was

what reuained from the rdvince “iven to him by UGI when he went to

vance given hin for

Mexico: rf which he had not accounted) plus ¢i

intention to canadian cuthoritics

the trip to Prague, ‘hen he declared



wiven a receipe Dum 92540 in Ancrican

to remain ia ganna he

ecrrency (this rosetpt is also attached), The difference of..$75.00
that ho had in eet 45 wefoc ckpenses while in Cans tle

hvt in tile beietéisa 250 Salvadotian Colener 1c -zuteh the Canadians”

mfiraod thet thin anuunt.

did fist ‘given’. hia-a receipt. (7h

war inthe yorsaraioa 92 the Canadian civerhaent.)

(Tho watter oF tis auney which the Sourca had taken from Guba later

decane a problea with the Canadians, largely because on talking with

the Canadian Innigration Sorvice the Source indicated that the money
belonged to the Quban Government rather than to himself, This was
reported to the Cxnadian SXternal Affairs Office and led to a decision

by the Canadian Governmeat to hold the money =-U.S, and Salvadorian

so that it could de returned to the Cuban Govermiogs if requests¥ Tais

decision of wich the Sourea was made aware by! per request of

ES told that,

iQ made ‘hia angry and at his request the!

in Shurce's opinion, if the mony was returned so “it would ba ised for
promoting revolutions in the fréc world which included Canada, The

aid tiat in all probability the roney would not be returned to

the Cyban Goverment and within a matter of montsa would be tured

over to KUBARK for retura to the Soubce tut that thy could not

give it to the Source or to LANGOSGI,

In this conneetion it should be noted that when LAXGI3GI arrived

in Canada no decision had beea made as to the disposition which would
and tho

ce his:

be made not only of the money but also of the Source hi
row LaNsosci that

documents which he had in his possession, Th



Source: because all of thea ward’ tapod by sso] fed LANGéscu had”

Se

theft dasite was xo tumover the Source and dvorything.that he tad.

but that thie was a policy natter wilehhad.to |

not oaly by tnd] 24

This matter wade it somewhat alesteurt to conduct intervicus with the

to be careful to avoid question er answers which put obstacles in

the path of sccuring the turnover of Source and what he had brought: ~)

with hin, ‘Tha final “decision of the Canadian Government; aftor the
intervention of the Ottawa Station, was tist the Source and tho docucnts

could be turned over but not the roncy.

The Soures said that the accounts for an Ingellience Officer in
the OCI are not subjected to close tnspcerion and that, in fact, he

had the authority a3 a dosk officer Ln charge of the Salvadorian
een nER SD nnn eNO ene

fons without any need for

a
accountings, A typical exanpla fa that he could draw for every traines
piceinatetron ere neetinrotay se ne ett een me _
from hia ow assigned area $1200 without question, Ue ¢£a have to give

tthe ng ee See esac
detailed accountings for larger oxpenditures.)

PIER



Compete “Z, A:

IC gu Eder Jevrape om a fborpolke
Sly ere et eta geet aig
Premio Kany Mon Cone dvrcache.
ae el ciel a
Chak a. To eaon a

gape’ fren ty telete ae hn
Gath ey pooh pret re chant
er
se” Siyeiet eee Bh bre
hyper cy re Megatk. : :
ee

6 b ane

Gbhel?

rate

PRAGE yp


hat Beye
Gane mene mt he (ou,

alla € fe ao (ohh fe ae eee
i fecbet weet iw dpe san ft hilt i

| Yeon Vibe Lo adeant Cote
iM oe i we Paper enc

Para (ué


| tf thik. polloge
eae ap nen ? ‘spike,

ft, flee
