# 104-10113-10141

## Page 1

104-10113-10141

19 April 1948

TO

SUBJECT:

:

R. E. Cunningham

Chief of Investigations

5025, CONEIN, Lucien E.

I am gttaching Interim Feport on the above-named

covering Agentl

Pinvestigation of the birth and

naturalization record.

This investigation is pending in the Kansas CIty

and San Francisco areas, with auxiliary coverage in the

Washington Field Office.

ENCL.

Plucker ducke

L. CHARLES DUKE

Special igent in Charge

---

## Page 2

14-00000

:..

INVESTIGATIVE REPORT

INTERIN

One Star

TITLE:

CONEIN,

LUCIEN E.

NO:

5025

DATE:

April 17, 1948

PERIOD OF INVESTIGATION:

April 15,

1948

OFFICE OF ORIGIN:

New York

REPORT MADE BY:

06

CHARACTER OF CASE:

Personnel

appo hands decke

---

## Page 3

14-00000

NO: 5025

April 17, 1948

BIRTH AND CITIZENSHIP:

At Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

On April 15, 1948 we reviewed the

records of the dumigration

and Naturalization Ser-

vice relative to the naturalization of LUCIEN EMILE

PHILIPPE CONEIN. The records disclosed that CONEIN

was granted citizenship August 1, 1942.

His

naturalization certificate number 1s 5426522.

Petition number was noted to be 7668. Personal

description of our SUBJECT as of date of his natura-

lization is as follows:

Age - 22; sex - male; color - white;

complexion - fair; color - white; color or eyes -

blue; height - 5'11"; hair - borwn; weight - 165 lbs.;

single: French nationality.

Naturalization of CONEIN took place

In the U. S. District court of Western District

of Washington, Southern Division, Tacoma,

Washington.

He was at that time residing at Fort

Lewis,

Washington.

Petition for naturalization papers

disclosed that CONEIN resided at 1345 Freeman Avenue,

Kansas City, Wyandotte, Kansas at the time of his

induction into the Armed Forces. He was born on

November 29, 1919 in Paris, France. His lawful

cat 12 1 tr parte

serial number 37013822.

Wittnesses were ALFRED G.

JONES, Cpl. Btry C, 143 F A Bn and ROBERT L. QUICK,

Capt.

Btry C, 143d F A Dn, both of Fort Lewis.

SUMMARY:

INS records were non-derogatory and

confirmed CONEIN's

statements relative to this

phase of his background.

EJK/md

---

