# 104-10322-10154

## Page 1

1104-10322-107541

AL6 $72.

4 August 1978

Executive Registry

78-9130/8

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Meeting with Gary Cornwell

I. Cornwell came out today to complete arrangements

for the Mexico trip.

After talking with his people on

the HSCA work area,

he met with Niles Gooding, Norbert

Shepanek, Martin Hawkins, Bill Sturbitts and

signed.

Wewhad heard that the Embassy had not located

persons to be interviewed (but were told to not upstage

State) so asked if the trip was on.

Cornwell said it

was, despite what seemed few to interview.

2. The Mexican trip poses no unrecognized problems.

The HSCA people

will first interview Agency employce

Flores in alias, on Monday afternoon if possible, as

Flores is scheduled for leave.

Gooding will arrange the

interview of the safehouse person who has agreed to come

and be interviewed. LIONION-1 is

In Madrid (we explained

his recent exposure by the Communist affair in Havana),.

and is not available for interview in Mexico City.

We

have not been able to locate June Cobb Sharp or Henry!

(Lopez:

3.

Cornvell apologized for the use of Agency pictures

without checking with us.

He said he simply did not recall

the limitation that accompanied them. I said we probably

would have agreed to using them, but probably would have

liked to influence the way in which they were presented.

I added that it provided an opportunity to speak about

handing out material, also saying that is an ill wind that

blows no good, as it

had resulted in identifying one of the

people. We told him the material would be available for

review

soon.

4.

He askéd about access to the Hidalgo OPF.

I

pointed out that the issue of unrefined access to OPFs

explazning the

questions in

future

caicers.

We were asking for a refinement in the information

requested - what periods of service did they wish for what

SCONE

---

## Page 2

13-00000

purposc.

the 1900-x

an asked if he could see

P Hidalgo filc

period. It was pointed out that the

intérest had been understood to be Hidalgo's period as

case olficer for AMMUG, which didn't commence until 1964.

He said he would likc to start at the 1960-63 period and

he void 1o co

go from there.

I replied that this approach would take

us back to where

we had been and that it would be preferred

if consideration were to be given just what is wanted and

why, and submit it in writing.

He said it would be out

first thing Monday morning and I promised first attention.

5.

asked about AMMUG's file. Messrs. Sturbitts

and Hawkins

explained the problem presented:

the record

revealed the extensive use of MUG after he became available

to us,

and this had to be reviewed in detail by a number

of differentadesks. This took time.

It becane apparent

that they were really interested in the "Mexican" period,

which may suggest how the file is of interest to then.

240

6. He asked about Casasin's file. Everything had

been agreed about his interview

in Paris, but as a

former

employee his file had

been retired to Archives and had to

be retrieved. It was now in and would soon be available.

As the HSCA investigator was not planning

travel for some

tine yet, there was time to handle this.

7. He asked about the Proenza file. I said that I

had offered to brief Blakey

cither at the Agency when he

next appears there, or at his office.

I felt that when he

inderstood the nature of the case, and what it wasn't,

he

would understand why it was not relevant.

I said we didn't

know why they were interested in Proenza, so had to guess

at it.

She had been recalled to Cuba shortly after

the

assassination of President Kennedy, which may have: inter-

ested. them,

but we knew why she was recalled.

He wanted

to be briefed, and I declined in favor of waiting to brief

Blakey:

I took the occasion to speak again,

as had been

several tines before in both writing and orally, that

there is a need to bring some order to the requests fron

HSCA.

We knew there was a loss of interest in some re-

quests--material had been untouched for months after it

had been made available. At the sane time, as time con-

are setting excited and cach

over others. In the absence of stated priorities, we simply

a back-log accumulating; this will impair responsiveness

SECRET

---

## Page 3

13-00000

to bona fide current priority requests. He acknowledged

the presentation of the problens but made no statement

(as is customary) .

S. D. Breckinridge

Distribution:

Orig

1

1

1

SA DDCIC

DDO

-

DDA

- OLC/Chron

---

