# 104-10527-10138

## Page 1

104-10527-10138

3.45

20 3420 1 00

ENICO CIT

i Ba

31&EN

IMMEDIATE MEXI

0; 512

5188. 0:=

8483?

TyPIC. BEDOX

REF: MAXI 7007 (IN 86532)

I. REQUIREXENTS FOR THIRKIST DEBRIEVING OF

A..: ASSISSHEKT OF CURRENT CUBAN BRUNCHY AND MATOR: PROBLENS

B.ESTINATE OF ECONCNIC FUTURE AND WHETHER' CR FOT STSTE;

BEING IMPOSED ON CURANS CAN BE NAUS IN WORK.

C. SNATS J FSTIATION 1004 POLISE-CUSAN TRADE

PROTOCOL. ANY SPECIAL PROLENS: "CAN CURANS EE COUNTED ON TO FULFIL

CONTRACTUAL CELIGATIONS?

D. PROJECTED CUBAN-POLISH TRADE LEVEL POR 1964

WHO ARE MOST INPLUENTIAL

CUST IN MAKING ECONOMIC

POLICT? ARE TENS BASIC DISAGREEINTS BETWEEN GUEVARA AND RAFAEL

CORICIZ AND ID SO GHAT

VALUE OP AID GIVEN CUBA BY POLAND IN 03.

ToTAL FOR

BLOC IF KNOWN: ABOUNTS PROJECIED FOR 64.

G.. POLISH ATTITUDE TONARD SCONOMIC AID FOR CUBA.

". COUMENT ON WESTERN. PRESS SPECULATION RE BLOC DECISION

ECOICE ATE DRASTICALIY INLESS CURANS ACCEPT SPECIFIC BLOC GUIDANCE

PURPOSE MAPACHT VISIT CULA WUNE 0% A E00S1B7E

GOADINATINA OFFIOTOG

HEILADING GIFICT

"it (18x1 009-4791

CONTINUED

1900696 01-098-973

AUTHEITICATINO

Relile: 119099959

REPRODUCTION RY COMICA IAN ME ISSUING OFFICE IS IRONIGE

---

## Page 2

8:5-C-8-H-T

219 222/4668

seraile

12i3"

062L8451

revi

PAGE THO.

CITE "IH

84637

SIGA LE ICANCE QUI SUENDOL INT MISSILE DERLE DE.

ON JUCKT-FULIAN BAUS 1845. VALUS SY EXPOEZS AND

MATY ITIS dE DUOLE BOIS I? CURAS TO POLAND.

S. BE SOLISE EXPISTO TO CURA SO SOLES CHANGE SANS PEXCES

AS CHANGED OTASRA AND IS DOI VII?

&. 18 MULTILAT

BeIL PATENS SISTE EsTEREI CURA AND BLOC

USED ESTINIVELY OR IS TURKT TRANT SITY RACH BLOC COUNTRY KRIT IN

BALANCEY

N. NON MUCA SICAR DID CURA SALI, POLAD IN:83? "HON MUCH

PON 047 WHY THE CHANCE IP ANT! PRACE POLAID PAID FOR SUCRE 6S7

PRICE POR 64?

HOT NUCH SUGAR DORS CUBA EXPECT EXPORT IN 64? TOTAL

SUGAR PRODUCTION EXPECTED S4 AND EXTENT OF HURRICANE DAMAGE:

IN

VIN BICH VOLD SOGAR TRICKS, DOIS CUE HOPE GET BIGHER PRICES PROS

SOVIETER,

SO IMRES TRIAL PACUECTS POLARD DAS COMPLETED IN CURS TO

DATS PENSETS UNDTE CONSTRUCTION AND MAIDOTE TO BESTSETZO iN MA?

: 88-13-1 - site to

---

## Page 3

17:

34637

P. HOMES SOLIBE 1

CRENS HACE TECHS AND CURARS.

TINGINTE. IT FRICTIONS EXIST VIAT CALES

Q. DO CUBAN OTICIALS. AND TECHS. GI

BARIOT, BLOC COS-

WHAT ARE ENVICT?

PRALLY AC

SCEPT ALL

POLLO GUIDANCE OF BLOC ADTISERB?

"HAT IS STIT

INFLUSICE?

B.

THAT CUBAN OFFICIALS DINGI

DEAL DITH AND THAT

IS ESTIMATE OF TIBIR COS

ANY CHANGES MOTIO IN LIVEL OP COR

PETENCE IN RACKAT PRICHY THAT DO CURASS AÉ DRALS WITH RALLY THINK

OP CUBAN GOVT?

AND

OF. HASSAGE

C/S COMMENT:

"REFERYBAT.

C/SAS/INTEL

9KK

C/E/3100

Un Brigit

INcE

14500

•HELSARINE, OFFICER

LISAND A.

HARELIE

C/ 545/ 208

auristse

Sulor-1

Bartenant te pune tarantle

Humania d-ng and

Boridan, is al-on

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING DEEICE IS PROHIBITED.

---

