104-10180-10130

f : 30 June 1961

POR: Cireator of T.siaing
Attention: ¢ Sovert Training/cs/TR
VIA yet, CL otalt
Attention: C:iet/01/1CD

Ses ECT 2 JhATS Froject - Request for Training of AGRE}

A Atist: f the Sessest:

© (1) w/t scuba
(2) The “eadqu-rters case officer is Ralph G. Seehsfer,
Room 2604 Quarters fye, *xt, “03, who will have contact with the

7 Subsect. Alternate case officer will bef] roon
and phone. me
B. The Projects

(1) URATE approved 17 berch 1960,

(2) The purpose of training the agent is to provide formal
tradecraft and operational rrocecures to a person who is relatively new
in the field of intelligence sut who has had some prectical exverience,
The training is expected to prepare Ai. for principal agent functions,

(3) Suvject is witting of Orvanization sponsorshio.

(1) Contract age:
(2) OA number C=8205} 30 June 1960.
(3) U.S, citizen (ns:

tH) /

“3a wd no. ene Training out Kas used vy the Havana

Station asa cutout and, after tne break in-diplomatic relation: with

Cuba, ovcame tie orincipel of one of the stayoehind nets in Cuba.
(6) Sudject 411 be assigned to the rorward Operating Buse in

Mai

(7) Subject will be provided a notional but bac:
cover, It is intended tnat he oe use! aso principal ager
officer's a:sistant,

(8) Subject has deer
intellivence training.

evred that, ne will receive oasic

al



~ SFORET =

te

(9) Subject 19 a responsible person with no knows character
weaknesses,
(19) Subject 13 witting of CLA interest. He hes not been
eiven any knovledge of ClA.

(1) General
a, Subject will be availoble for full tine training.

0. Tho sayyested training dete is 17 July - 1% August,

¢. Training ares: wasiington, D.C. or vicinity. Subject
will not enter Agency buildings,

d, Trainee will,use the cover that he ic visiting ‘asliington
for buainess reasons, jiis alias in training will be
Charles Hernandez. :

e@. Training will be comiucted in “nglish.

f, His understanding and applicetion of clardestine techniques.

&. Trainee will be monaging other agents, tacrefore his
agent handling should ve carefully oserved.

h, Kone. :

BS. Requirements Cor OTR/CS Covert Training:

(1) Training objective, The trainee should realize the necessity
of conducting himself securely at all times. As an independent agent
he should have reached a level of competence that he has confidence in
his own aollity to ure the clandestine techniques taught to hin,

(2) Suggested training sublects: General Intelligence Orientation,
Basie Tracecraft, Recorting, Slicitation, Counter Intelligence, Agent
Secrultment ard Agent Handling. Enphasis throughout the treining should
de given to agent recruitment and handling. All other cuvfects should be
given equal treatment,

(3) Follow up: Suoject will work closely with a CIA case officer
at the Forward Operating face in Miami who will provide cuvfect with

furtaer guidence and training required to fulfill specific tasks he will
assign Suoject.

J) Co KING
C/stD

trioutior::
urig & 1 = Adéressce
1 - S/t/isp

|

