# 104-10172-10200

## Page 1

104-10172-10200l

ROUTING ANO FECORD SHEET

nid

PRIOR TO FLING

Fill in Soit a on haiè

Diact haid isf

anit loesard dis

RiD

Desterp dinnl carer abegi

•mipas is tratiidà.

Iumlarant aclinn ladon d: 7a50 D0

iny poreeseoryaticn

FROM:

1O: ACTION ERANCH

11 lile no andd litle sb.os

#1e nol piuper.

1n:e: plyye tile ae trlis and duimaid

Meimont to HID-ATOA

RID it

IE. L2-0

3-0-3120

1-5308

+00%g

4859

18V:

4 fe

MeTTaa DO

201-99755

ALL

DUL IS SOL PONA,

RETURNTO CIA

Backgrdund Use Caly

ce Tactsch Kbrnen

Do Noi Fiepreduce

Ciste: JoHN.

КАРОК

07 83

9 іна ві

3 to di songyent oftr readerg

this doe he ndlamifid ints

févoros dol the file chaipiation

soer belor is in emoi

TO

A C/Eг/q

3.

c/RE/G/CE

IS

5.

BL

SR/C1

SBlerIK(Besky)

eD/CR

12.

Lseyafe

1 4.

CV/R+A

2C17

19

КАРОК

Irr.

Pis Sile -

30:51

TRACE

REQUEST

DDTE SÃCE FOFILNE O

79 8100. "'Ireous

AB5IgaC?

ADEI

'e otanéa Saiuaa: 008 dei-5i7÷9

AViset.

TEGMA 05636

zz

22H11:7691

ENOET

tuet

---

## Page 2

1 to v

+ 8300

DISPATCH

, 5.13

ity-13

S11S03P Lemony:]

046658818944119

jo opening peculars

AIS MOPILA

МаТВоїЙ КАМі!.

INCE A

ACTIC:: For your information

1.

The following infcration acquired from a source

described as reliable

was prorided by alias fleming.

le explained

that the information is

being maid available to that kubArk can rave

in indication of the prosasie

extent to which information provided by

ACLADLE has seen spread aroure.

The Bonn representative of the "Frankfurter Rundschau, "

F. MOERSBACH, Cologne,

who is well acquainted with the

zulformer CAVATA staffer, werner PAETSCH, has learned from

PALTSCH that d. so-called "AILADLE Protocol exists in the

This material cortains statements of a Soviet

officer who defected to the lest in 1962 and told American

agencies that the Soviets decided in 1954 to abduct Otto JOHN.

JI CAVATA was informed by the U.S. agencies and subsequently

sent a delegation to the U.S. to inspect the AELADLE

PACTSCil clains to have received extracts made in

the U.S. for translation into German.

Fleming stated further that (CATIDE) intends to inform

savor Ang to release of classified material by PALISCH, who,

's inforsation is expected to become

witness

in a trial which Dr. JOHN has asked for and in which he

hopes

to rehabilitate hinself.

Pagne? Cletz,5s

Roger T. Matross

APPROVED:

Kar J. Holtmaner

Arconald A. Maccussin

Distribution:

1

- SR

1

- COS/G/F

1

- COS/G/B

2

- BonJops

15-13

GROUP I - Excluded from automatid downgrading

and declassification

201-99788

CS COPYA

(E045)65636

1701-312-886

27 November 1964

NOS FILE MUNGBEA

KAPOK/SECRET

201-312886

ORIOINATINO

OFEICEA

Гот.

COONDINATING

on t&

ОПРІСКАʼВ НАМА

ABINO

1/pv

---

