# 104-10173-10072

## Page 1

104-10173-10072

jit

17,7:0

AICH

RETURN

Eackos

Do ye

Coproduce

- 21 Anril 19o1

19-5-76/4

to

third, lis

14-6

Info

rron

Subject

Gusy

Chief of Stiliond

Notion icquired

References

i4t-3

•ll is contact end leorlaila, di KANTR MICROFLNED

Paragraph i belon

19-

AUG 1ã 1982

-1433

DOC. MICRO. SER.

Attoched herwith lu Arthur J. Rainey's ronort of his contreta

with KANTAR in Cosenhagen 1l aud 12 A0011 1951.

Sinco the next uchedulelyal-laney meeting 1o to be held in

pionagen durin; the firut reek in may, Hendguartera!

coments anould

lie cuoled suonest.

Attachsent:

report, as noted suove

21 April 1901

Distribution:

2

173 i/att

1 - SB 5/ntt

Watt

RECLASSIFIED

RI/AN

RI/MIS

RI/Files

14-3

/ CC

Wyatt deteriant

a GET 2/0 01 HAS 1891

° a pall I

1 6/0V

---

## Page 2

1d-0d0d

mad at.

SALT

to nnd dchrictin: on 1a an da pil

MICHOFLICU

alains of any cnyz2am

S. AUG 16 1952)

DOC. MICRO: SEER.

artiur Joiney travoled fro? stoc!holm to

coronhagen unier truc nare on le soril, revistered atllotel

isiorcur as an merican beacher in alins ot mAurS NiAL

and receivod an ornt bricrins or the care cose as well

as tie availaulo filo material at Conenia on station on 14-6

the inno day. In consultation rita

with the approval or the chler o. stationa lettor was 27

editod and sent to kutor in tho evening or the samo day,

requesting

connected

him to come lor on interview purvortedly

rit! a survey of merican scholars and gran

diato students enacod in slavic studies in scandina

vian universities./ See autchrent/, the letter re

quested juajeet to core to tha

1400 his and iring alone his acacenic record and a

resume of his plans for luture starles.

b/

As expocted, interns suiticiontly in-

triruod by the

invitation and appeared at the hotol at

the anpointed time. In order to obtain a fineral assoss

nent of his person, bick round, pust and luture travel,

and the actual operational dotential or the case, he

wns first interviewed for sporar.l hour under the

selected caceric covor until tre discussion reachod

the point of jubject's contects mita doviet citizens

and orricials and the details of subjects travel to

the USse in 1953 and 1919. In vier of subject's obvious

withholdinz oi specitic inferation, soie oi thich wag

ulrendy avcilebie to Ramey iron the exacination of file

material, rurther elicitation could not ve productive.

Subject sas fiast told tat the suvey was sponsorod

by the l$ Gov rnment and that torerore corcrote and

full data on subject's travol in the soviet Union and

his contacts with the sovicts hid to de ciscussed.

when Subjcct shsorbed the fact that the cosual intor-

vior pas over, he veceme I thor narous and consed up

considerably, grodually, toney revealed hirself as a

representative or the ..Is ind the subicet expressed

do ibes

about toney'

s bon: sides,ris shorn tie Intolll.

rence I entirication ucoi..ct

in alias. susject sid not

seen to de coiletoly convired o: inter's luentity and

said rincatedle : I scally don E no: 210 ou sr0".

zit has also at mey eno

3 0e:0no clenclo indicated

Celer,ne ansierod

nll.destionc...c....atm visible....unl

Bally arranciat

the surfern

Enet+s-C5507-10344

22

711/81.8

CHASCED FROM CO/SI

74-6-91,1g

3/00

---

## Page 3

14-

of tinet van thon intricorales, cuill ridiout

nitroit:

, t

13 01 1NbCi,nG.L0 mOvIe

full ind truthlul intor: i

tion on his iovious truel to the laviis contacts

wIth soviets both in coochen and the ironecial

ly on thoso tint hed iny illicit or clandcstine charac-

tex. inio forml dobriolin;, during which notes were

talon was coniuoted until asprox. 2030 hrs. lith an

into-ruptio.1 oi about 45 minutes, durin; which subjoct

repaired to his and his cirl-rironds hone to esplain

his protracted absonce, the session sar continuod ovor

a inner it a restiurant until 1530 hrs. subjoct was

then instructou to carttns auper again at tho hotol

on la pril at 1560 hry and in the noantino inintain

conulete silenco o. the naturo of the intcivier vis

e-vis his riancoe and other outsiders.

d/ In tho nornins of li ipril, thon samoy vas

Icoorting, the results of the lirst session

to the

pubicet coseured at the merican abassy and

checked out ianoy

¿ identity with the Vicc-consul

J.bockian, thon he hei previously seen trico in

connection with his visa problems and GI bill checks.

Subject showed our letter to Lockian and explained

to hin that Pies wink had askod hin "many personal

ouestions"andits studios ind future plans and that

in viev of the luct that flas

wes not a nativo

born morioon, he vanted to know if the latter vos

knoin

at the

mbassy and in reneral 1i' he las"all

right." he did not mention to lockian that noy

had identitifed himself as a represcutative of the

•IS. Bockian checkod with the station and was given

instructions by picudo to relay to subject that

3 had checked with the abasry and is in

fact what he says he 13". subsequently, when sub-

ject left, jockian reported ajin

to the station

status es indica

he iraiceted that do connection it intelligence

he indicated that inch

narters. ine inciuent inaicatou also thne suoject

comolied sit: the Inatrictions and did not reveal

the intelli ence niture pi his contict lith iuroy,

nor tic rect that he had vic. ail. rily interro

anted concernin: his couscis :ith soviets.

ci subject anor rei ior end cecon: seasion

at the hotel at die pointed clue and siated

Ine latcly that he ind ird i crock ot arey'g

cate till d00 ine drier

nor lo the une can cogs conner subject sello

.. reill

747111

---

## Page 4

•i not coin

old to lockiin and..ro on nccount

rich braically miciors ioo! cit action had i0c

ported to cho sovion. wunnice nuuce ant li ho loc

10t been rivon tarsuranco concernia dov & outhOn

ticity no tho consulato, de voula "hire spillod tho

cholo story" to : ocrinni slice.one rici dust bo takon

with considernhlo doubt in vier of tiut transpirod

-bout jubjoot's pust durin, tho debriorings.

al tho second cobricting listed approx. 4

hours. sinco thie sud totnl or the incorantion provi

dod by subjoct about hiaself and his

past trovol to

the Ussi,as wold ar his contacus wim io soviots,

brought out that he had burn in tho isit twice in

1958

and 1909 1o1 protrucich visits it his uncle

In linsk;that he bur been in contact tith soviet

Embassy orticluls and ato ropresenteires both in

Copenharon and ijunk since inll 195% mtil sobrunry

1961 ;thạt

he hed'toon subject to a Is recruitront

attompt in insi in sumac: 19:9, mic? ve allegodly

refusod; and that he still planaed to visit his

relatives in ilnck in lay or jine boroso retauning

to the liniten States in ententer, no decision

concerning subjoet's exploitniion

could be inmedlate-

1y takon. Subjiet mas thercinre insiracied to pro

cood sith his curlication lor a soviet visa,make no

sustained eiloits to revive his seni-dormant contact

with his last Is contact in conenharon but drop

a hint to tho sorict consular orficials at his next

visit planned for gridcy, l1 sil, than he vas d13

appolated over the rcrusal for an erican scholar

ship, and, finally, ferort tic oxone o this visit and

tho status or his soviet visa 17 2

short iritton

note addressed to futs NAME

cio visitors

jail, crican inbassy, Covenia.?en", isica,as Subject

ras toli, rould be rormirica unosonà to the audressee.

subject was told that arother meetin; in the fiist

weok of ray would take place and tirt ho would be

Informed or the neeting place and pruciso tine by a

latter to his current nitress.

c/ Un 15 laril aney renorteà the results

of the second intervior: to trol

Tand 14-6

leit for stochnol at liu h23.

1ip. 10 xancy s de

partic a shori sable

IT and cB sotential la: 145Fo

mnline tho clari-

eation of bada bon deer clear indicent

!..

101-279110

---

## Page 5

nave no con nid thatefe" she

Lien being

Cy wHY 2 at 1159 14-6

handling should be contained by ancy. s

itated above,

tho nost suetin; vith kinnh is acheduled for the firot

wook of liay.

a/ I'rolininary angosoment:

the dit? reporind in the following, nora-

graphs halebeen systentized 2o no

to be readablo. actual-

ly, the initial icbilefin; conducted under scadenic cover

shorod alrcudy that Intersioning, and Interrogatini, KaNiDic.

1s a rather it iicult tick. Binco no

is at tlaes an alrost

connulsive talkor and iraulses in lon. parchthotical re

marks and sneculative coventa,lt is almost inpossiblo

to kcop hin on a steady course. lie is an intelligent

and obscivart young men but does not scon to be capablo

•of sustainod concentration. de vants to show that ne 1a

a bright anu alort man, that he Brusps all inplications

quickly, and he vents to irprees ond please. ils intellec

tual ambitions aro ercater than his actual

capabilities.

lie wants to de"understood" and hence becomes often a

long-winded "explainer", ie sees himself in a far more

flattering licut than ouher people see him and because

he is vaguely suare of this, he beconos overzealous and

vorbose. lo does not produce a favorable impression at

the first inco;his appearance 13 not oninzing;his

small and woak hands are outright repussive. rrobably

due to his buckround /serish lower siudle-class/,he

seers to havo developed cortain inferiority feelings

and resentments, de has acquired sono political pic

Judices which are ted nor: by cmotion than by reason.

"C Is quite likoly to deceive hinselr into belleving

that what he knows and wrat he has experienced hes a

general validity and he is therefore inclined to evade

self-analysis and seli-c-iticiam.

arrogant ard overly colf-assurc, sometizes quite self-

conscious and tinied.

when dancy switched iron academic

cover to the role of an IS rogresentativo, kINOR d13-

naved-a pronouncei suspiciousness, anxicty, loar and

a whole ramut of leclines which all indicato that he

is not a vory ation perconality, ¿von thouch he pro

i'cosed to bo ruoricious of arcy, he cuved in very

quicily and unitted his contices with une IS prac

tically under the sil'hiest pricholorical dreszure.

is experienced ar obviols colies? in unburdening him-

deca political convictions our tibiou to acquiro

---

## Page 6

14-00000

C::n?

be rather milly in-

Ileancon

ind

inloited by none sno knots now to

agororch him and ilatter ils cro. into arelininary

evaluation not exolain to some exucht both katoR's

behavior during the debriclings and his invoromont

with

the ris.

b/ Personal and oductionnl backrround:

Subject was born in for York ng the oldest

son of /Inu/

KAnTon and iis wife, nec farn BRODSKY. He

has a sister, Lila or Loila, azo ca 21, uno 13 miried

to an advortisine man, bernard iTreat. Subject's

mother is of orthodox

Jewish bolict, subject

Is 10r'0

liboral. both have numerous

Iclatives 1n

he United States and Subject s nothcr has several

olntives in tha usoR but all mintoined contac

" only with her brothor, alin

2300217, are Gs, r03.

Minsk, rushers save h8g

the united states in thally tucatios eccaping

sirents cane to DOB CC1898

Frate fussian revolution and the noryaas in theistiussh.

Lkraine or Byclorussia. it homo subicot

usod only. Yidaich and binzlish, so that he did not

he copenhagen university. subjcet attended the

Flinton de its lich 30h001, iron

"nich ho miaduated 201-279719

about 1051 or 6r.

though subject's oarents are con.

varativoly soll off, they vere not abli to finance

his collore education. crom 1952-1955 Subjeet served

in the Us'C and uttained the rank or corporal ho

,forked as an aviation mechonic. iter separation

Iron the sorvico, subject had no specific plang and

norked at odd jobs, helpine aloo his fother wio has

a small store of bicycles and technical spare parts.

From Scutcmber 1956 to sumer 1957 subject attended

the fairleigh rickinson. college as a night stuient,

studyin accounting. de did not like accounting, and

decided that he would like to try study iussion and

l'ussian literature./ Subject did not canlain in detail

what aroused his interest in this fiold,. Casting

around for a college which could provide hin with

the chenvest possible euucution, jubject case across

a catelos of the conenharon university and found

out that there sus practically no tuition emi ce

ciled-to enroll in copinharon, thori subject did

not scite clearly the amitional le:sons for the

selection o1° & 31.:15h

unive:ally and the slavic

fiold, he imolier that it los userul and "pro:ressivo'

to siing dischini.

N/&3l

---

## Page 7

In cures 1009 Jubtart Groveled Ground airong 01

beran attendin; coursos di susian lun ounorficially,

since the adairsion lorr litios actunily lited until

kay 13sü, then subject wi tacatilculated is 3 recar

student. as po" univorsity certificates subiitted by

subject

to Raney, he has

boen onrolled at the infrer

sity of Coponiuion for tho last sovon

senestors and

hos recontly outainod a ¿coreo of " cand.ntiu"/come-

thin? betacon a jodo and a jod. of verican universi-

tlos, with e rood nark. -- is still attending co'scs

at the univorsity, primrily In Old dussian, Jerbo-

Croatian, Jussian literature and serinars. se has boen

stayin? "ith crof. sill, lector or instructor, hillshov

/tho latter an eldorly person of 68-70, hite Russian

eniere who cune to debmark from China in 19<3./Ind1

vidual certiricates of tho verious instrictong indicato

that subjoot is juaged to be a diligent student and is

praisod for his comparatively last proricos in dussian,

though MARIASHV -quite correctly-vointca out that

Subject is not completoly firm in accentuation and

soloction of the proper terms. at his urrival in

Denmark subjeot applied for an oducational grant under

tho GI Bill, which was approved somewhat latebelig

since has boch studying and living on $ 110.

present tine, subject's lI will has run out and sul

Ject is in a rathor dilticult material situation.

recently subjact has apolica for an educational

grant fron tho sational jofenso Innquage iDgram for

graduate studios at the slavic Institute.or

kordhan

University. is applicutiin has boen rejectco, but

Forchan University has accopted him. ie has now vritten

to Fordham concorning a scholarship fron the univisity

Itself. its overall plens are to enter jordhom, work

towards a lasters degieo, take up teaching of russian

at college level, and eventually sork tovards a Phil.

In russian lanquage and literaturo. nis specifio plang

aro quite vague and devendent upon nany factors, primari

ly of personnl and monctary nature. -e Intends, howover,

to return to the united statos in sento bor and if

no scholarshio will be forthcoming obtain sono work

and save up enouch money to continue his studies. io

plans also to narry his Denisn cirl-friend /whose

name ras not obtained at these

nectings/ before i°e

turning to the states, but sho would say hero and join

hin only when he is sore or less settled.

subjeet ius nover hid any serious intentions to

no or study in China, but at ono tino he thoucht ho

---

## Page 8

2. * "

of financial statin

subjet claimed that ince he raminated from

hich sonool ho never manted to ben birden to his parents

and vaiu hinsolf for his cancation nt inirloiri nichincon

1ro:1 What la haù carned in his different jobs. hen ho

cano to venmark he had with him about üs & 1700 which ho

had sarce un and fror the palo of his car. tith this

money he also poid for his trim to tho uss. in 1058 and

1959. since 1988 he has beon rocoiving & 100 por month

under the GI Bill and this has been until nor his only

permanent sourco or inconc. In Conenhagen he hes been

also giving sone lancuare lessons, touch incieouently,

and has corned sone snall amounts iron casuel transla

tlons. is of this tino, he has practionily no soney and

would find it dirilcult to drug up the fere for his

trio to the inited statos. jo has not yet given a serioun

thought to hor he coild pay for his rventual trap to

the ussa,out since tie trin is intended nrizarily to

bring sono medicines and some saleable iters to his

uncle, he orpects that in this cose his parents might

contribute to:ards the travel expenses. subject stated

anpatically that de never accepted any noney from any

soviets, though attenpts had beon made by some of them

to force sone money uyon hin.f for details see folloring

paragraphs/, subject's Danish fiancée is a secretary

in an architects bureau and apparently they live now

together end pool their resources.

d/ Travel to tho USS?

Subject has been in the üss? trice, both i

tines on a visitor's visa issued to him for sters with

his unclo in linsk. He periorned the l'irst trio from

end of lar till midile or Tory 1058 and ves on soviet

territory iron 31 iay to 9 july 1958, ic traveled by

boat to ¿'inland ani by train iron lielsin'a via raini

kala and vibers to soningrad, thore he staged a days,

and then flew

I conth and he renered it for an additional period or

2 roeks ne the ins: (VIR. ie returned via rosco:

in oscow. Uthemise he res in insk all the time.

His second sojourn in the SR lasted

trom & Juno 1059 - 6 sestenbr 1959. •e anolieù for

his visn in corerharan, but it was sctually issue: to

nin in asterlin, on inally lot a durition or only

two rocks and ms then -encron trice aè tho. inst

OVIe subject traveled or train i101 ust--erlin

lask throuch roland, due to the incl

ivore the accel expiracion of his vis:, suojeet

md to travel cro. lino: to sinst ani to colish

... ill

---

## Page 9

De cic collah boder antio aujon minel ma allori

br tho stutionn.ccor in.rcot to binvol i0..0.c0

pio surlot vira ms colll valid, in aider to autai:

valid solich und susciorzon triacle Vimon, 1n se-

cured those virus on " septenher and oxilei fion

the vist on 8 soutenior via brost - solaii instuorlin

and rononed connnharen on lu sentenbor. icest for

the days, 6 and " soptomber which jubject spont in

¡oscow, he stuyed 1a. inst all the tino: /about 3 mos/.

al Other travel

Subiret triveled throuth octern srono in

10a% visitln, crunco, belgil, holland, e visited has

parents i. des lork iron the

end o1 novemocr 195n &

to cha January 1959. Ii sunner 1960, when nis mother

went to the Ussil to visit hèr brother,he net het her

in Le navro ond tinveled with hor by car to berlin. .

rils nunerous wast-verann visaes in his no: cancolled

109823, which 1s still in Mis possession,

passpoto o"dilo riot that his secone trin to tho ussil

was vorformed via East jerany and that ho had to

roner his transit visaes, then he was turned back by

the rolish border autorities, ue has not suent uny

tico in Enst termany and has lived in .ost-erlin

wherever he wont through this city.! The portinent

pages of subject a lorner rassport no 449 313 were

photogriphea byl

when subject idf-6

took out the new passport reccatly, so that there

is a completo record of subjects travol iron sui-

mer 1957 - ADril 1961 on l'ile/.

f/ Subjoct's relatives in the USsR

BRCDY, Calrin, uncle on n'other's sido, aze

63, in retiraicnt ard living on joviet stute pension

of about 500 rubles; violinist, but last job ung thet

of a store minarer in a food store in i.insk. Ho once

visited subject's parents in the USA ir 193€ or

2935 and certrinly roturned to the jovict inion

in

on ids part taen subjects movier cot a ghort lottor

2IOn 1937 until 1945 thera was a conslete silence

that hes brother was all right. astor, subject rouai

out durine lis iirst visit in

insk that his uncle

had beon arrested in 1939, accused of "avyaz s ancri-

koy" /contact with america/, anù sentenced to 10 years

in a ilorth-russian concentrution cano, jomphor: tio

viro. of subject

s unclo succcrued throut connections

in: oscor to have ker jusband coleacon after li nonths.

aven now nrithor sublect's uncle nor his vite like to

soonk in retail about cat veriod in thoir lives, lu

YPV

---

## Page 10

band o farrion dale: Mi ll biceüs uncle man separate

1'ro:s his innily •

a sis ovicuated to on notern part of

the ÜSs?. ie minsoli tag an rently court by the outbirak

of the vas in vivors, "nore ho was trevoline wili an untor

tainment choeblo, and uns thon in Leningrad durin? the

Though Subject has no specific intormation on that

period in his unele's lite, ho belleves that he was nobili-

zed for nilitary or defense sorvice. nitor the war the

-landly settled in linsk, where they oin a little and very

nodest houro without sanitation and running vator on

Grushevskava 58. jubject's uncle does not work angunero;

he is still in fairly. good physical shapo but surfers

Irom his! blood pressure.

subject's fanily has bean in overt correspondento

with his uncle sinco 1049.

ic himself has been and suill

1s

In corresvondence iith his uncle sinco 195%, when ho

needod a support lotter fro him in order to obtain a

soviet visitor's visit. Subject produced at a later stago

the

three last letters iron his uncle, vritten in the

period Janunry-arch 1961,wnich contain seneral family

¡tons and his unclo's request "not to forget him" and

to visit him arcin, li possible, this recuest In alleredly

the prime reason for subjoct's desire to visit his uncle

once mora before returnine to the united Statos and also

to bring his sone nedicine and such itons,as clothes and

other things, which his uncle can sell and

add to his

modest rinancian rosources.

BRUDSLY, FIrA, /naiden name unknown/, wife of

¿almin BRODSKY, age so-58, also in rotircent, last job

unknown.

The BRODSKYS have 3 crown-up sons and 1 daughter;

with one excontion their first nares have not been

yet establisnead. the tro oldor sons are photorraphers,

one of whon resides in jinsk, the other in the vicinity

of Vilnius /Lithuanian SS.,. The youngest son, Izik

BRODSiY jis a lathe-operator by profoscion, but at the

presant tire, or at least in 1058 and 1959,he 19 or vas

in military

service as a sailor in the inltic fleot.

Subject net hin durine his stay in 1959,when I71k

BROSKY was on leave. ce lus rathor auiconly eniled

back from leave in the berinnin of septerber 1959,

when subicot uns surioner to UVI. and told to rot out

oi the sovior union within sor anya allerruly bo-

cause he nue boon in "bad connony". the only uhurt

not rivo out, and to forke in, inci, jubjoot's cousin-

-: 40-319

hir.

och sujeer's socker ird incher arolouly live

---

## Page 11

20

do0s

not 10r clicit noes and is not nuro of may co.

taco boticen tini and his monts.

a. Joon afici his arrival in denmark in July

1957, Subjoce vont l'or the lirst tize to tho soviet n

bassy in cononharon to cools l'or a visitors visa to

the lsir. ine idon' oi visiting his uncle and n rencral

curiosity pi seein, the USoll ind the native country of

his purents vero tle main resson for his dosfie to mako

this trin. c'urthorore, cubicetliho had decides to study

tho jussion lanuago and outhin l'irst-hand knoulodro

of the joviot lie thought that

very uscrul for his studios. or subicotErto mould bo

= own dinission

is did not quito beliove all the nnti-soviet proparanda

at that tlue and tantai to see the chints for hinself.

subjoct reichbors that his list visit at tho soviet

imbassy must havo taken pince in aurust 1957. aftor

having talked with an oriicial at

The recoption ro0r1,

subject was

asked to codo in the arternoon and, 13 he

remcübers, after the oiticial diice hours. In the

afternoon jubject was reccived l:diridually by an

ofticial non he later later Icarned to know extrone

ly voll, soris icdorovich irricikuv / subject bolie-

ves that his nane is spelled XXACCOV/. KEYACiLOV

Intervierod subject in a ve trionily cunner, asked

him nany quostions about his relatives both in the

USa and USSR, about his planned studies, and, vain, the

pretext that he would be delichted to hear more about

subjects background, intentions, travel plans - all of

which was allogedly necessary for the processing, of

subject's application ior a visicor's visa - invited

subject for dinner in about l reok iron the date of

this first nocting at the imbassy. ie asked subject

to meet hin in aront o. the crtersort itation. inis

first conversation was conducted in airlish, since

subject did not yot sceak dussian. aircudy

first nootin, KaYiC.ai indicated that ie had been

in the USi,at Inko wiccess; Cil, sonetlio back in 1948.

Subicot was

extrendly clacturce by iitr.cinor's

interest and invitation aal b

the enco trement which

idiTOrior exprossed for sibleet's plens to study

missian and obtain a diroct ind objective view oi

the soviet lire. ¡orcysr, jubject ins also somethat

ruzled by la. civis ricadliness and especinly

by tho fact that amrionel told hin to sib.it his

visa an lic tion

for"s chis to hig rathes than to

b.

Tric. si. 0116 0in 11.0

is.cic..o..di

•cition in eno evenina hour:, subjee:

cine to tho

Piniog-you rich n close cond, muray 20.7,8.1108

201.277710

---

## Page 12

+ 195-0939

111

not 8o.09

1o nia.

- not

coaliy ii:

¿cade Judo add on 8h110,100

ini.d.uli 600: thion

-bfoct to

"atlantic inlady", thore

he trouted

hir to r.n

excellent dinner, uvcr toe nonl

"Ten mith abjcet caruclly about ils parents,

his unal! In tho lisa, his relativos in tho isa, asked him

nbout his frionds in coocharon and tho othor incrican

stuconts

1:110: subject iid not. jot know roll ot that

stago, having, coont only about l nonth in coponharon/•

i spole also about the neacciul intentions of the user

and the hece-city of conductin, au notive licht uminst

"a"grObalon" ind "impedislisa" • subjcot, to was rather

rosiious to outrin a visa, dia not express any anti-

sovict idcas ond in jonoral inoiled that ha was of course

for pence and aguinst the nar. iGuiYACiKOV indiented to

subjoot that the latter's visa application, finco it. was

buck round, ittitudos and that it might aloo tako a

lonror time

to obtain it fros ioscow. The sounding out

i Suboct 3 hackeround uss 1ntersneraod wich dizht

calk In union iaxichiir erased easily nnd amoothly.

no claimed to know no innis but subject thinks that

ho undorstood to languare quite selli, said that ho

proferred inalish. pand in lact he rive his orders to

the waitor in inclish?

,talica about his houbles

/photogran:y, pointing a indicated that ho himsolf

was an onzinoer by education. busically, he did not

push subject to visit Ine lisat and in concial did not

tath a dormatic cornurist vier subject lound him

Iriepdly, easy to talk rita, interested in many things,

a porsonable and sympatietle comounion, sinoo he vas

the first soviet orricial siti mon subjoct had como

In contact, he wes quita lavorably improssed by him.

o/ In sumer 105% subjoct travelcd in Europo

and had only tro short encounters with sily chkoV,

at which tine he subnitted his fornal visa applica

tion / 3 copies/acconpanied by a iundurition blocraphy.

d/ In October of sovercer 1937, borore subjoct

vent to the usa, ho stogued at the soviet imbassy to

Inquire about his visa...t that occision i2cd..CHCV 1n-

vitca him to his house mich subjeet oisited on o

be lovenber 1907.

METRONCY resided than and

thro: -hout his stay In co'enh? n

nt jonanunss.nde. 1s

hrs and 1a3

cocatel

to? acring-govle "1 tith all

sorts of "zakuski", bror in rouneed hin to hig

kiie, 11ys /01:/,shond l:: his lein, irious comers,

-??.

¿iaa!.....

---

## Page 13

arced ther it the vice should come throurn durin. bjeot s

bsence acrov would infor. hin or lottor. sublect noct

not I collcot arccisoly whother at this or n later mectina

he was askod by siLly..C.icy to roite a "abutenent" concorning

his-background, biograpin, rclativos. in tho Lan,and celatives

in the voil. lowever, wuujeot is certain that no questions

vere askod about the olier merican students and

orrunizations, trough it is possible that jubject's oral

opinion was astra about "clarte" • subject was not yot

officially in'atrioulated at the Copenhaion university

at that tino and attended the courses as an auditing

student. as borore, KitiC KoV seenor to do evcrythin

to please and berriend subject, raiing no serious attornts

to obtain fron him any infornation that could be ternod

illicit or impersonal.

e/ :.hon

Subject returned f'rom the USA and bean

studying russinn nore soriously i pril 1059/, he wont to

the imbassy aiter kaster, saw JRYACIOV arain ard again

was. invited by the latte? to visit him at home. this

visit left no lasting impression upon subject.

I/ In lay 1958 subject visited the soviet inbassy

again and this time learned Iron CYAChKoV that the viss

had finally coe throuch. MixiciuV invited subject again

to his hono to "celebrite this occasion". On iS "ey jub

joct vent to KiRYICHKOV's home and was lavishly troated

with caviar, "ankuski"ete. e stsyed at marlornor's hone

until 5 a.m. they talkéd about so nany things that subjoct

has no clear rocollaction or the single tonics, but ho

clains to here: bo cortain that no rritten statezonts

were required fron hin. it this ncoting anxicrov told

him that he himself was roing on leave to oscow and that

he rould eventually look up subicet in :Insk. On the neit

day subject left for inland and the usos and

did not see

MY CHoV again until cooros,september 1958.

6/ subject scrived in jinsk in the first days

0¿ June 1950 on a visa which was valid for four reeis.

sone three weeks after his arrival 1 sorict 8a10191

cho called hinsoli vikier avano.te pold.urguse da-su,

20ddun 3120,d00k boto didio cad don Jose

iron a "inistry" and incuired tether subjoct mas

cocortable mod enrend his nick to anie his stay as peckully Sis.

interstin:, proiltible a corosichlo is possiblo.

a s00:0 un lish an! Liter cold dieject thrt sore

tire

•Kuer also lube amour curline. also that he tas

...

l:!.

Tis ube

to it rai injury, mataere cirso vidio crocodda

'i.

---

## Page 14

jubject's uncla considorbly,cove then induct bin:all

Visito°, cho onli one in.inol: co thie Ch. 10 hi: lao

1oiro, 10nld be intched. cubjiet's uncle trici to chock

out..:c.or": lucatity ond occusation at com joviet

authoritles, out sithout succons. Durin' subjoet"s stay

1n: 1nek 3w0V aneured about

fonr tine,always coring

directly to unblect

suiclo hone end driving a robeda.

so invited wibjoot to a lootball cono, no irvitation

which subject eccentod, and onco trovo

hin to a lake

outsido. inck. "t their secon or tiird mecting,ivdiov

oficrod jubject 500 rubles, with which jubjret vaa

sumosed to bu, a gift for his nunt. subject refused

the concy, sagin' that ho did not need it anu that he

hincoli could. buy a cift l'or his relatives, Juring

their convergotions which vore conducted in nrli3h

sInce subject had pructically no knowlodro of russian,

31s0.oV plurton tho lino that there vero rony threats

to peaco fron the lest, that all recent people should

participate in in active penco fight, asked subject

ho: he personally telt about it and implica strongly

that subject chould tuke an sotive part in the "nosce

etrucile"

and "co-oporate", but he nade no succific

proposals or suggestions. Subject claims that he

was nostly lintoning to SAZONOV and noddin, nore

Or

loss nis essent to the luca that vorce is better than

war, that atonic weapons should not be used ote.

subjcot admits that SAichoV could well concludo on

the basis of their conversations that Subject ves

more or less a sypathizor. SizONOV exprossed also

Interest in incrican and vanish students in Copen

haren and in their activities but he did not requost

any speciric infornation fron subicct and did not ask

for any written"statemonts", by and largo, jubject

general ideas only passivoly, he ald not think that

theft meetires vore or any great sirnificanco. ie

thourht that one specific resuest hy ¿niONOV was out

right foolash: StOlOV once stated that subject

could help the "peacoful t'orces" by signalin? to

them a threat of war fron the rest /early warning/.

che latter vented to ret

help or assistance beiore hey net, he should trite

to "do vosticoovanya", ilavyochtant, insi, subject

did not use this addrcos and mue no attornes to see

StOnOV betreen thoir unschouled neetins which woro

• apaced by anorox to rocks. in reneral chile subjeot

soilé tive nicorred not to see indiov, ho chourht

cint outrit coludealo sint loid to erothlos sor

---

## Page 15

ais relativer in tho lair ond that le would bo wirr to

let immo beliove shit hops ivin: son serious thought

to the Inctor's rollou crostions, do treasura sito

attented by¿roOV and so nilucion of any kind to

subfoot's nectin's rich airaGiov in coponnoren Nas

over mndo, nor 1,3

the tor. "intollirenco" ovor ment

thonci durin, this stay. subjort loit inck in the bo

sinnin" of July without invinr, aocestod any instruo-

tions or assirnmonts =rom SAZONOv.

h/ In durist or contenbor 1058 subjeot went to

to tea on longer ten tell nia point do in author

1959. Since his jirst application for a visa had takon

about 9 months, ho thought that ho aliould start carly.

chough he nd not been favoraul improssod by tho con-

Jitions in the lisa, he runtod to rotnin for a longoi

stay to study the languaro which, as no figurod, he

would liou better in a year fron

the tine of his appli

cation, urbhornoro,his unclo had asked hin to return,

and subject thourht that the conbinod personal,acodemie

and material rcasons/ holn to his uncle/vore sufficient

to request another stay in tho liSSR. At this visit sub

ject did not seo ORYACHKoV and talkod with some ur

liontified ofilcial.

i/ In September 1058 subjeot found KILYAChKOV

at the inbassy, told his that he "hod enjoyod his stay

in: ins:" vory much and that hi wanted to go there ascin,

this time for the whole sumer. luctichkov expressed

the opinion that shilo another visitor's visa within

such & snort tine was rither hard to got, it vas not

entirely inpossible, and ponised subject to assist him

in his request. inachov asked subject nbout his

l-pressions of Leningrad,..oscon, the lu 100. sloject

statad that he ird beer.

rvoroly tinressed or what

he had soon and that he ranted to not botter acquainted

with craything and learn cussion. InkYAChKOV again pro

misod to help hin and imaicatod that ho socond "ankleta"

form/ had to be filled out and that he hinsolf would

try to tako core of all cormalitios. this surprised

Subject sonewhat, but since he had ossentinlly

all personal intornation on hinsolf a short time bororo,

ho did not soo at that tie inything unusual in KlYACInoV's

J/ In the period sentember - ilovember 1958 subjoct

mos ruthor busy with his soudles and saw laric.kov tro

or thico timos, once nt tie la-tor's none just berero

-pig book to snolnitod.itoes. morosinatoly in.ov.per

• .

---

## Page 16

54130 ÷ 1408137

cuestione icin; linile: to bicet's dies abilication,

progr033 in his uselon sturies, conchl nolitic:l con-

in wich thn there or an activo "strucclo

for peaco" was closely Intervo:ven vill sublect's

nlans for his trivol to tho sovict inion. lo incuosts

10r any reporting vero mado by kid.cinur but subject's

opinion conccrnin- the orranization of lavic trilos.

nt Covenharon vas solicited. it the lit scotin, in

siovenber subject aruin roquosted Mliic.rov to irito

to him if tho visa should be rantsd core ho himsolf

roturned to cosonhagon. from ond iove:er 1953 through

January 1059 subject ms in the USi an ild not re

coive any conmunication from KHINYACIEOV.

lil after his roturn from the initod states

subject arain vent to the imbarsy ani contacted iYAO:

KOV. Ho tas intosed that the visa lud not yot beon

Issued end that it vas necessary for hi. to submit

sritten statonents about his oin fanily,his relatives

In the USA: /names, occugetion, iddresses, age/, his friends

in the ust and again his own

biograohy, including his

nilltory service. t the sane tine iller: cinov told

subject that it wus not nocessary ¿on hii to cone to

the simbassy any longer and that lt roul: be also better

II ho did not visit hin at hone. the beinning of this

obviously clandestine meeting restem uns in lebruary

1059, In the period fron rebruary to in 1059 lirICHOV

and sunject met severad tinos, the specilic datos alleged

ly not beinr. remenbered by sublect, une of the meeting

places sas the "Bullior Cofo" on Berretro-ade. At other

times tho meeting tool: Slaces on

strcet corners, cheap

enting nlaces. rostly DRAC: KOV solocted side stroets

ofinlarger and busy atreets. The restincs vere either

prearranged or else iiTiClOT rould send subject a

mossago c/o uperican press, at shich bject continued

to roceive sost of his mil because as a student to

chanced his address rather ficinently, no nessape con

sisted of a diarran of the streets or butidines of the

aceting place, the date and tinc. the dierrans voro

similo but porcotly clear. The nectin" tino vas alvays

arter ortice hours or in the cronin. and i riorkch

inollod-rather clearly that he took creat srocautions

to nect jubject in such a unce that oney conld not

be observed, then onse subicce idled any so lato",

1:T..C:0Y ancierod do you leilize ho lon: lt takes

'me° to ret here unobre rod' / ratin- oil surveillance!/.

lioever, no novor cove led hi:colt no an I:tellirence

jor no rica. In the sure sir,e to miood cubicet

---

## Page 17

13 168561951

1G

quiterones o.

nizations claren

corinict front "d "raorland"

/conscronilve nich sturnto croup/,in short inlorma-

tion which did aot have any bearin: mon subject'g

visa annlication.

e canted also to now the etaila

about ubjects ilitary servico,a mestion to rich

subiect allercal?

anstore then

and inter only by

statin; that he ind servod in the tic,as a comoral,

had been ctacion: in vorti Crolina ind had vorked

as an aviation richnio, re broided snoject to actend

the neetings of the International Clib sore fresnently,

observe ino ins there and what wes win on. de beren

niso to in'l" that subject should visit

the USIS library

at the netiren coassy and cultivate the Danish unployces

and get to 1:10: better the larines at the mbassy.

Subject allegedly did not cooly with these latter

roquests.

waridor justified his incrost in innish

studants by sayin, that miny or then planned to go

the USS? on collective trius and shat it ras necossatg establish

whethor they were all right and could he issued visas.

1/ By Subjcet orm and reluctant adnission he

subnitted four or five written "statenents" in his oin

handritin? to into:k07 in this period. • gave

the names of his --latives in tho Unitod sates: uncles

Jacob /Jacki BRODSKY, are ca 70, retired, Ies.iockaway,

AY; boris BRODSKY, aro 58, ongaged in Chatuel mortgage,

res. 8270 152nq

st.,belrose, Loi. if.t.; his sister's

and her husband's nane - Lila/ioila/ cuü bernard

„TroieLl; uncles on facher"s side : Daricl keor,

o:ner of a grocery storo in thilauelpilia; orris

KivoR, lood score in srooklyn dachan Midtr

Ian; and tho names or three ats on cotio olgires:

's side.

112 or the above are in sore busines-, rone is in

sovernrent service, thouch perhang sono or their grown-up

children, Subject's cousins/ could be conloved by the

rovermient, but subicot does not know bien vell and did

not supply any incoration on inen to dackov.

is to his irionas in no ica he allegcaly told kition-

¡CY practically nothin;, claimin, that he ind lost

contact with nla his i,-school fileill& Lon-, tice

8,0.

as to is military servica he did not sivo

ilYACiO more intoration than mentioned in the aro

cecing sarrant anic..tainly no nares o. oüher

sIs or oiricors, so foi subnect has ali-jud that he

malenn stricnto ilo it ne tire vero in sorennoen:

urmy bo sees con mode 15

rid..... out too..""

is a jonson relieve so the rost tonig

15.00

cold.0s

201-279111

---

## Page 18

ta-inn0i

17

201

von Chi: ORD, student of inclich literare still li rien-

haron. miT.c.ood soonod to known creat doil nbout thin

students, somptincs moro then subjoet hirscli. karacheV

oxorcared a norticular intcrest in the cairols of the

"sandinavian fines", iroel ox and Diniel i ItSOn, about

whom ablect learnod moro iron ham.c.zov than iron tho

casual contact ho had hed. with then. idia.lo.jor seonrd

to assirn a partionlar inportance to one lict that 10x

and liaIso! sero lavy or army budies and artod sub

ject to cultivauc them, which subject did not see any

rcason to do. in soneral, subject clains that he enve

as much inforntion on the foreign students as could

be obtained by anyone from the university records und

no more.

subject gained tho impression that jaYACior

did also know or at loust know of embert craven AlL,

an incrican architect, who vas a freruent visitor at tho

International club and who is in Chiacago at the prosent

time.

m/ Torards the end of liay 1959 IJRIYACHKOV

intornod Subject that the latter could so again to tho

USSR and asked him what itinerary ho ranted to folloi

subject indicated that he vanted to go by train via

sast-Germany and roland. ilisCHKoV stated that that

was "very Rood" and that subject could then piok up

the visa in cost-öerlin. sie exnlained to subjoot that

it "would not look very good if both visaes voro issued

In Copenhagen" and pronisod to subject that there would

bo no adlay in the issuance or the visa in

mast-Borlin.

Subject loft for berlin about z8 or 29 Isy.

after havin, waited at the Embassy for about 5 - 1 hi's.

The visa was valid for tro recks. "tor the visa was

stanped into jubject's passport, sono unidentified joviot

official took him in person i!/ to the "'eutsches dolso-

buro" roarby, where subject bourht his ticket for binsk

and departed

severel hours later.

o Subject arrived in insk in the l'irst doys

or June and, as prescribed, vent to rogister and obtail

the loeal sojourn pornit at OVIR within or alter thene

days. subject doos not recollect mother at this first

Do was second tor cat waste are on June, male sut: uss.

miregood sublict in molsh bilain tirat aine intro-

01- DoRei

ducod binself as levreniý aT Mud de nimile

thircirs,

in a lorene connention. dotan chira no goin

tint lis

Coded alone mede Are idea:

..iiio indparedible

in fact a aurtin sonillarito mith ...ri.n life and

lou 1! and

---

## Page 19

18

roquese io: noxicasion of 110 visa ind cojourn permit

in jinsk. i.ci obsied also that ho ma i layor and that

no ras norially residing in. oscow d nocared to sub

Ject more autioritutive than his previois ilnsk "iriond"

SizonOV, but ke anpronched subjoct in i iriondly mannor

and shoroi that his intention

vere to hold and

assist

subject, un the noxt day sublect vent to the totel and

lound jial in the above inuicated room. un tho

table

Il he wanted to stay a longor tine with his rolatives

in iansk; the soviet authorities had to bo cortoin about

his good intentions and good faith und

that full intor

nation was needed on his personal book round, his fanily

In tho lisi, his military scrvice, his friends etc. de

ushered thon jubjoct to the desk and told hin to vrito

down the incornation, subjoct claims that he put dovn

in sriting tho same data which ho had previously rivon

to iHY CIkov in Covenharen: the mmos of his rclatives

In the Ual, the bare outline of his military servico,

the usual biographical data and a statement to tho

ofrect that he had come to the ussil to visit his re

latives and to learn russinn throuch Inodiate contacta

with tho vovulation. Kill asked Subjeet a"lot of ques

tions" and acnin talked at areat lenith about peace

and the car threats from the

west and about how every

"decent and honest parson" should octivoly participato

in the peaco fignt. ie oriored subject money on the

grounds

that " he knew it vas rough lor a studont",

suggested that subject could eventunlly go to other

places in the JSsr, especially Crinen, but Subject alleged-

ly refused these ofiers, No specifie surgestion of

collabor.tion vas nade at this meeting at the end

MAIN stated that he was goin; bock to joscow and that

he shoe resto da sube and to conta nin

D/ cor tris first concuce with iudl, skéoi.oV

aruin beran to make his nore or less re-ular andearances

and continued to belibor subiert with "political indoe

trination tolis", stidl stocrine clenr ol tho concroto

alecussion of mat no actually rantos i'rom subjoct is

vinits occurred rot na frouently 0s that sublect s

netione to tho pronando lino, subfore cladas that he

mad by now colter noso or long necuarone to sitor®?

rather monotonous balls and dis not pay mich abboucion

---

## Page 20

Comt B let Can 004 11 100 11 070

min,oret inari to an00 moro on lons iit tho "joaco linc",

but did nos econd i: any "y

a closer colluboration, purin: this mariod, subject's

cousin, lal! nichs, cancho: on leave int subject keat

mostly hi: connaig.

though inik ho not soveral young

peoplo james not establialie

al Towards the end of July,ilter subject had

obtrinod thr astorsion of his sojourn perit at OVIR

until the siddle of ugust cron noberrod

and invited

shoject to tic hotel "byelorain", whold int sas ex-

inis vas tho tirst time that SAcGaCY

and lival revcalad to onbjort their conection sucject

does not recolloot winther in og takon to tho same

room cs his first novel nectin. with Jal Unrin this

menorablo recting, on lamiicion hirscli

presonce as a representitive o= an intciligence service

¡"razvodkn"/ ond nade the firoo clear vecrultuent pitch.

sie vantod subject to cirn a 'lofalty alcdze" to tho

effect that juject vey willin; to collavorate with the

soviet intellirenco. subject clainis that he retused

pointblan!: a long orgument ensucd. ¿irst Kah: ranted

Subject to rite the plodge hirself, theisurrested that

he rould dictato the text ind subject could decido

Inter whother to sign it or not. subjoot argued with

him, sayin? that " if you trust ne,why chorid I sicn

anythin?"/!. In the end muci seid that subjoct's

oral agoonent rould be accostrble. / chorter's

cornent: the roon as obviously tired/. lovover,

subjoct -re red this too. SucoY exprocoed his"deco

disappointnent" over subject's refusal, enving trat he

had notexpected him to bo so obstinato, especially since

sinco subjec: soecd to understrind ithe need for the

"strugslo l'or neace". liovovcr,no physicl pressure or

throuts vere apollod. after a unile, mist end SLeYC

took Subjcet for dirncr to

the hotel rectorant. Micy

continuod to bolotor ubject with all sorto of cor

monts, but unbloct alleredly arrained adant. order

coconted loomily about

wuisee: " Karin on byl, busin

do rarily bucot" and on his sore tilid to inticeito

subjoct by almare.u; renoc about urrica. e spid

Liat ho lanch erica

well and would rainer anend ter

yeng in jail thin lire those. ain i1.J517 10 C-

minded that micet ricoolier ma.colt.ho..te.

1I0л

tley finally allow abdore in leave li state: cont

nad tall tHe Overn.

To lie More disi st

---

## Page 21

•Polonine the corlene tiericholl marod

onco

or tive lit le did not tory: cions etio. li to

riether

117.0n 1e by ine amoral musculi did 10t

roveal tho rocruitiont recount

to dis chole / senorior g

tosclecy ubout hin mootine with itic' nowardn tho

end or surint sacON snid that he ins leavin: for

Lenin:rad, zion whore he was to tale soar boat trio.

This sas tho last sinjeet snw of him. In tho midule

of urust subioct anglice anin nt the «VIl tor an

extonsion of his vis: ind gipin senait and obtained

the oxtonsion until the misics o1 coptonber, rithout

any cirriculties/1.

surionod to appoar with his nowhor at tho uvi? A

cavorously looking "nodpolkovnik" or the militia

Informod both brusquoly that jubject had been "a

bad boy", had boen "nitendin? bud conpany" ard that

ho ras to leavo inct and tho usur within three days.

one ol tho teras used by tho nilitia orricer vas that

subject had been In a "ariton" bordelloy and that

ho vas a corrupting influenen unon other soviet youn

people. Subject hirsclf conneted this emulsion order

with his refusal to collnbornte with the ils, but tho

roforonce or the militia ves obvionsly to a visit

which ho had paid to i rirl's apartment in the coupany

of his cousin and other youngaters, there they had

drunk a little, listened to rocords, and duncod. termans

tho expulsion was also conncoted with anuthor visit,

also in Isil's company, to the nontrent of a young

Soviet, wose lether ,as albject leurned during the

visit, uns a poneral in the soviet dim. legedly,

subjeet dues not remnaber the names o. these peonlo,

but tron his descrintion it would

appear that the

senoral's son belon;cil to the joviet "icunesse dorée"

and did not live by the jorgonol code. those visits

had occurred, howevo:, to subject's recollection before

he had boen subjected to the I3 recruitiont attenst,

because alnost inclintoly tieroniter Jaik 1.i0Ds:Y

seceived en unexpected order to vermincue his lerve

and roc.rn to his unit in ira, aoprosinately in the

scond salt: brian. or ond of suly.

then Subject

"heard of the exoulsion order, hu pointed out to the

VIk? that he had no inlid iolish transit visa, but

ho tas told that that did not matter nd that evcry

thing would be all rint.

ti subject loit. ins!: ani come throuth frest on

5 sentenber, ins cheched throw soviet maasvort

ind

1.69d1.

..6.9n :::100918

he talker contradio coco ye palorea min to ver

on i direra truin t0.0000. mistin: hin to r0:15t.5

in. oscow inioniaool! piur mo dilitia. .03c0:

---

## Page 22

1d-0n0d

mubject

::

serious minicalling an de word oil ribes. is

on 8. sentruer 1959. de rosened coormiron on 10 serterber.

In osco: he lad nu contacus wlth any oviet ofricials.

ui plagustod with the rocruitent atierot and

with his exnulsion fron tho liul, aubject did not seck

any further contacts fith his cosen cor "criend,",

tint time ho did not sot alan to io to

the loss arrin

and did not think that he could, even ir

sentido no continuod, horevc., to rrequent tre Inter-

tional Club and 1t vas there

That ho choonntored vladis

li mikhailovich : Bucillinknown to hin also as "yal".

Subject thinks that ho sal end net suCCIN first is

(ctober oi carly :overher 10s?,but he richt have seen

hin beforo, since is Chilli vas a trocuent quest at the

olub. se recollects that at one nootin; at the club,

BROKLIN save hin a book "tission for Toreigners"

and

thet oncc in the first days or iovendch ho met alii

lIN with ianbert craven ily, an ayptien-born is

citizen, chose ramo he docs not rencabei, and an -rerican

student.joutsiro, at the "Jrop Inn' restaurant,

hich subject

his chase die enter encizz

E014 of 29 vecenbo: 1050/. JibJect's conversatione vita

"Unl" vero nostly corarotei in tha proccice of ochsi

students

and

until anaror. the cid

or ovolber ne bad

no seuson to connect ilickid sith itchhov. The

connection becano cicur to iii. when oue evening in

the dast days or sovenicr sublect net perchatta at the

Inteinational Club anu vas arkcú by hin to cono out,

bocause "soricono tas raitin" fo. hin". Cuisido Subjsot

began asking about the latte.

strin to tho tio ü33.1,0=c-

tending ir the bogirrin:

to de unswurc of the recruit

nent atte pt and subject's conulsion. hon subleet sola

hin " you love fine friends!" ilindry abandoned tos

0l1 practicol purores the votense, did thet it :25

all a nisuniorsindin, that "troy" hid voon too"rish;

and that eroi thin could or stiniantened out nod ert

tholion iod rolntsuashi? siould cot do -fioctre bi

the incident. Mic recoln: cursino

one clio listoe 0115

about so minutes, but nodes red to nect sinti

Joo9e chal& totil di

notons to reciirs with.

oratal to the a ion iceo - dece no lein, near

..=

•1"!

---

## Page 23

line in :.': convotraliono with

anoinet but never re

• Intornation recitiall. Jollect tover

Bala::tilly at the soviet inbariy and recollects

that cro or tho

sturients who know him oner made an

attorn to contact sachuld at tin inborsy, but without

succuss fIt could have boon ittit/.

•/ In the tino boticon lovonber 20ã0 • ipril

10:0 subjoot had a for atroct corner nectince with

in GloV nost of chich accordia to subfeet, soonel

to bo desired to pacify hin artor tho the .trok inti

lude, lorover, alricieso continuc, also to ask subjeet

nbout his friends in Cononhagen ond at various instaaces

Intinnted that subjoet should visit the merican dres

noro ircruently, pet acouintod with the waninh reco.icalst.

of the consular section and with the library personnsi.

ie ins not very insistont and did not renucat subjoos

to wite any stotoments, It one of one resting, hieh

nust havo occurred rothor soon aftor their rirst re

contect in jovonber irtickov naked subject to snow

him hir passpost. do Inopocted it carefully oni then

suggested that it sould bo navisabln for sibfcet to

lose or dostroy the paganort becaung of the many viras

/Soviet,just-Germon,lolish/"hich " did not J.cox too

r00d". tie made it clear that he did noi want this Jess

nort to set back to tho lurionn authoritieo in its

present shano and offered subject "io take care of this

matter" if Subject did not want to dostrog or lodo the

passport hinself. At the some occasion, when ho gave

back the nasaport to jubject he in'cited 300 Janish

croons into the pansport; but subject returned tho

money. as to tho destruction of the oassport, subject

said to iriYAChiov that he rould think It over, but

he neither attensted nor ovon planca to set rid or

Ito it anothor noctine, poosibly in sprinz, 1960,

aRriaIsov told subject that ho rould be vrobably

leaving and asked subject if he/rir..Cio.ov/ could

addressed to subject c/o siclican.."ress and if

subject would arroe to turn then over to sorcbody

olse, monened. at another

subfact to rent an apartrent thelo dibject could

Invite his incrican tricads ai tro other peonle

peanin coviets, could come also, subject ceruced

both ronuests.

¿ In Anril loco ledeLandcor by precrearre-

ment 1nt. m. 01 the 196110.41.77 999 11.

Cario: 109.

and lad dinner durin- wich litiiv told bicet

chat to mus lovin ani thine do: no: on birec

---

## Page 24

"Geor 1y", duo latter mos

a rote

not abowl, "9,0re .5003,90d was 106900

In co:rove danish stile clothca. Mr convention

was comans in duiiion, but lavor sublect quessod that

"Gror:1;"

merstands inglish and sossibly tornan.

anard of subfect

trare?/!/ - it the fiint nectine he did not uok subject

many suostions and later subjeet found that ho ma

a rusher treisurn, businoar-lien person sho dir not

Hiin to. enrare in sinld talke altor the turn-over,

minis.Xov stid sood-byo to subiect and dinancared

120: his hoiiron Gcorriy innuosted jubject to como

cos tic nost necting to the restaurant lucar avideon

In about in s weeks.

y/ Cho secord meeting, with woRGIY took place,

as, scheduled, in the niddle of ay. subjeot vas requested

by 6:0:GII to submit a tritien slatonont about his

studont friends in Copenhagen. allegedly, subject 10-

rused this assignment. at thut time, subject's mothor

bas duo to arrive in Lennure and subject plannod to

neet her there, so that he was no certain of his scho-

sule for the nost reeks. -robably due to this,no dato

was scheduled for the next meotin with TONGlY who

stator that ho hingeli rould contact subjoct via lottor

c/o maurican trpress.

zl Subject claims to have no preciso recollec

tion about two other neetings during sumer 1960, one

of which coutd havo taken place avirox. Auguat 1960.

At thoso ncetings CaOkoly askod amin if Subjoct had

connied with his celest tors critten statemont li

ho had been at the Embassy, ii he ind bocono acquainted

with anyone iron the banish nersonnel of the imerican

sabassy. In the neintine, Subject hnd revolod to his

mother his involvements - late sumer 1500 - and the

latter had Inplorod him not to continue his contacts

and not speak with anybody anymore, Inconhjont ras

thorcioro even nore rcluctant than berore and pro

vidca no into-ction to villY at cither nootins.

In Cctober 1930 Subject moved to his present address

and hoard nothing frow rUNGlY. In the berinning of

Janunry 1961 subiec: received a letter iron his uncle

In : insk, who asked him in subject could visit him agnin.

ille edly, subject relt thnt since he uns rains back to

the inlted sontes in senteaber, anotner anortunity to

visit the bs32 rould not matcriilze lor a long time

and docidod that he niht as "ell nato another trip

for"denticentel reasons", "ovar's the end of Jonuayt

he virited

the soreet nosy to ironine in he could

1.:: mou hall of ine munosy, essrensed his nlensure

o1 secim-ubject craig,and armacad wich hin a nootinr.

tar in the afte.noon of an unreseaucred day in the

dIat took of ebruary loil. inia lost nooting wich

•TRE

---

## Page 25

14-00000

0f in.o.

a deparine sara, this

In

Who alternoon.

ankod subicct argin the aame mostions

chort in urolth stucnto.dount the .nericon inbassy

etco, out .:in silojoct did not nrovide my information

and it: ni accept my assignments, sagin that ho did

not son any connoction with his visa matters und claining

also thnt he vas too busy with his studies. joever, by

his on cussion, ho rave GiO.ilY his new addross and

did not cipliciety ncluse to noet hin train. G:CAGIY

sooned rather"disjusted" with subjoct and when they

sonalitod aid not picariano another nocting. ¿inco

tint tino subjoot has not seen ilO.GIY again. re wont

soveral tincs to the soviet imbassy in the last nonths,

tio last time on lu inril in order to transmit the

Inüter of support tro, his uncle for his visa applica

bion and to inquiro noout its outcome on 10 Aprid be

ins told to cone buck on 1e s0ril. During thesa viJits

súbject did not oncounter GEO.GIY and had only the usual

orricial dentlogs with the soviet clerk whose nano ho

does not knows is on this tino, jubject has had 5 meetines

with GoachY, all of which took

place outsido and at which.

JORGIY took groat orccaution not to cone with subject

to the meetins place and leaving always first. it these

outside necting GaORdiY vore alrays glasses, but when

subject "burped" into him In the soviet ambassy in

January, ho did not wear ther.

4. Tarntirication of soviet S18 officials

On 1e sprit suuject was shon Dy dare.

ieht photorrons Iro:: tha

filo on 14-6

tho sovlot imbassy personnel and iderigidod posititthy

and beyond any doubt ORilY as jeor tr: OcHatoy /rile+ 201-146679

spelling: OrChilOV, listed as and secretary of the

soviet inbossy in Copo hagen, thoso ils functions had

poen so lar only suspectou. +e picked out also correc

TOGYACHKOT 1508-136-1)

in all three instances subject nointed out that the

evailable picturos sust be of older dato and that

carcially: OO ALov and ROUnLIN look now considerably

older, heavier, coro matura, io subjoct'

3 bost rocollec

tion, Lancker nist havo deit conenacion in ol'il

1000 ; wiChiLll rimmedred iom his corizon after

wiistnas loig; icorig iculily sar fuill cersainly

in copenha jen,do le.si us ol cosurry

In contact ülth sovs

:?e. 00.0111194

sion is or collidn're nadir. In cenoral,alaost 61l

cocoated

internathan deb

n Creeped

---

## Page 26

natty

1-3: 5÷51

12.22%

WeL Wii, miitect of student

of ?r.

marid in corniacon in sumor

1950,e. i croclently to thie Intornacionel ClUs, and

Ee on closer terns with incuLt. than otror

stu mari, as stated sbove, subject lnows that wiNchALl

1a?

Chalal:as 1959. AlisT never spoke with subject about

hin concrets tith "ial" on an othit oviet and to

micso-t's inorlodro did not travel io the Ussk.

clint lori cobenhager about debrurat 1960, toured

•arone, cine back

to cocentaron and robably lort lor

inionro around June-july 1900. Subjoct can procure

"in current address.

1z091

STODIOn TUESE DOG SO COcOber 4936g

arrind couchhaion it illjust 193%.

actually a

in 1958/?/ - 1959 or cren 1900 and lio seens to re-

side now in suesselorf. Subject becane very suspicious

of him becaste he discoveroi that des:aulus ,uno re-

sided alnost opposite the mericon bassy;ves always

roll supplied with t.r-irce cigretios and licker.

subject noticed that be sacked "old Gold", the same

brand as iRACTiC. teen he heard ¿rom OSENBIU!

the expression " to spent a perny", just a few days

after haYaC:ov had also rsked suvicce what this

expression meant which he piloredly iad heard iron

a canadian ainlonat. Lestly, in Intc sumer 1959,

the cashier or check irl at the restaurant "Drop

Inn" found a zote-book which she turned

over to

subjoct asking i1 it belonged to hirl snibject raanced

the note-book and sar that it beloned to costall

sho was in the restaurant at that tine. sor reasons

Thich Subject dis not specify , he ranted to soe what

uns in the nose-rook, lore too restamant, took a kelk

around the block,.and leared tirough ine note-book.

sic sal on various dies

sin or tho namer in rolehroris" parcnCry used

t. reite doin his neptin: duces •ith tbiect himelf.

sublect conied inose intes ini reass unexorcined

and was even able to moduce : liso d° rint he believes

sere the ncetina dates ot i ri.. li.

for aney on 12 oil. a don ubjeet murred the

notr-book: to cler.i'.

nicHly and Ts 0110..1. 111

.il

6.

il: 1.

sypd

---

## Page 27

Lirailos.

moicet's explanition ci tho ronsons for his

1rvol:....rith the is li luzor int lar fion bein: :r.21

plausicle. In the berinnin', especially thourh 1957 and

even i. lie before he loit for the usst for the first

tris,".

8.^5

allcredly fully convinerd that his contacts

and conversations with isY CEKUV vero ecturlly connected

3 ho:ro, he did not

thin': that these contects hnd any clandestine naturo.

i trienCY never mentioned the word "intolligence", never

1 ventlriod hinself as ar intollirence officor and did

not rrouest any

sritoe: incornation iro; hin. when Sub

ject uss in . ins: for the tirst time and vas contacted

and cultivated by seck, he elle scly " smolled che-se",

but since Sacroi dia not

a0 beyond surrestin collalora-

tion, subject sai no particular dancer or conpronise in

these contacts. subject could not novide a olausible

explanation for what hannened next in Coscaharen, tion

his relation with inaYicne obriously took on n

clan.

destine character. the only nore or less acceotable

theory adamencod by subjent is that since he wanted to

visit his uncle again,ho did not vanü to lose his

"connection" with Mayacinev

and the latter

§ assistance

for his vica matters. subicet's account of his contacts

with SAZOroV and Kahd and nis alleroi refusal to accept

the recruitment sound lairly plausiblo and consistent

with Is nethods, but we have only jibject's om word

for: 1t.

It is clear, howover, that he did not reveal the

recruitnent attenut

to enyong at that time and henco

it can be well assumer that he ros pledged to secrecy

and ior a long tine complied with this pledge. In the

licht of subjeeü's own

account,his lurther contacts

with wRY:ChOV and later

on nith G3CSGIY 12 Jooonhagen

Iron sovenber 1959 to ¿ebruary 1901 ere more than i-

plausiblo. if he was so disrusted ani so unillin, to

•collavorate, ihy did he not disoociate hinsolf from

the IS then and thera? train It can bo assured that

reasons cristed for subicct, which ne did not yet re-

veal, possibly threats or reprisnl ningt his rclatives

In the UsS?. inilo Subjoot

stater

that ho sooke of ais

Initial contacus with his iriends in copenharen, parti-

culvrly wit. urray Bic.a,no did not revenl anit ing

to anone about tho ro miten aricnot in ins'. unti!

he ::ot his cothor arter hei ceturn iron the isaial. e.

sumer 19c0. Under her marciscent uestionin about

ho: he had been able to not the vi.:: trico and 5ua! co

lon in: insk,he ocld ter the viole scot and 15 195

—to do dio

and not cet Invoived : ila cicher di covieto ani. 61e

diu sob ronori to then about tin carrances. adlo,

Mri!

---

## Page 28

ts strains

of cop.

in I is

dorian mitritie ini

t..

of sicili that can be given to sublic until

..*

considerably toro

couples than sudjoct hus

initted.

in sinole poression'l toris, fron

..wo 10ng - wult 2909 he has bock under cerelo ent

i: coals ronresentatives pi.a.ur and sidov/,

scie tariot or a recruituent abicrot by is!, colla-

s: recruitnent fros covo ber 19up - aniil liu und

-eminca " c-sund is contact and souico for clickly

Iron april 1000 until at lost chrurry 1961. de c

vouled his its involrement only to is nocnos, did not

report anything to cho snorican nutiorities until con

rronte: bi sonoy, under slicht paycholorical vressuro

ho confossed with an abrious sonse of relior and at

this stago seems to bo more than cairo to co-ocrato

with us to nake un lor wiat he

renrosonts to do nis

formor " stupidity" und neiveté, lo come ostent subject's

pathological coke-up, asixture of solf-assuredness

and sclf-consclois.ess, tanily loyalry, possibir leur

of soviot roorisels aruinct his relitives and or

punishnent from the erienn side and the beliet

that he las not rosily derayod anythin secrot can

explain nis reluctanco of conini, for.ard and r'ovortinr

to the incrican autooritics his "nistakes". but, though

Subject nor claias

that he feels an moricon and that

if it "comos to spying" ho rould rothor do lt for his

country, this late discoveica loyalty uoes not ring

entirely convincing, subject clains that he has never

been

a reber or any vomunist or mization ind in

general abhors orcanizations ind orcanized sotivitios,

but the conclusion is inescamblo that iis political

synbathios sust rave been vay to tilo left, at least

until a fairly recent time. subjoct" assertions that

he nevos accented any nonet ry vernids or payments from

the soviots hive the rin, or cuth and seen to be con

sistent with his charactor end his attitudes. ne does

not aupear to be a nerconang type. Tals provides one

- additinal rooson to believe tint Idcological consi

derations had nore to do with subject's invoivement

with tho RIS than he cares to runit at this stage.

subjcot's present truthrulness and reliability enn

not bo taken for ranted. diyaani exaninition

is obviously necessarg to obtain a cloorer picture.

361-127971.

+980-7699080

---

## Page 29

14-00000

7.

1155 95:N60::

a, 1I value: subleat has not vet been debriefed

ahout his knorledre oi tho linak arca, but he quat bo

Inlaly lenillar wich the city,general livin: conditions,

situntion of the Jerich population, attitudos of the

pouncor reneration. iro solouns in -inst, 9 reeks in

1310, almost 3 ronths in 1959, ara lla current connloto

conand of musaion sould inko hina feirly ood sonico

c101 Usa l linos 1f he succecd. to obtain a visa

for a third trip. Thor he rould have no access to

important Ina:striol Installations and rould bo probably

carofully satened anin! his stay, he could probably

elielt sone data fron his rolntives. in appropriate

bricfine would be necessary and,as sinted

abovo, a rarenii eximination prior to any assign-

/ ca value: incoretically sueaking, subject

1s In a fairly pooù nosition to becono « double arent,

but he does, not cupeur to be a nerson who is cupablo

of carrying this rolo off in a sustained anner. His

current contacü with the dIS reprcsontativos in covon

hagen 19,11 ve accent suhleet's necount, reni-dormant,

but can ho revived via dittle olfort. this seens to

Do the immediatoly most productivo line of continuin.,

tho grene case during subject's stay in Cononhagen.

If Subject should obtein a third visa, it 1s quite

likoly that G:C*CIY will attach sono strings to it

and it is not insossible that subject will be subjocted

to another recruitment attempt in linsk, osbecially

sinco he is plennins, to return to the usa in septenber.

The RIS hes boon in

touch with subject for note than

three years, has exposed to hin three representativos

In Copenharon and two in the Uss.i,and obviously has

not sritton oir jubject es a huseless case. It 1s

therclore recoironion canù the traith erse be conti

nucd alon.?

chero linea with a predall eraaination

at tho eneliest date

oossible. If subjcet's applica-

tion too a thiri visa to tho issit will ve rejected,

his trefulness will ond thon he leavos conenhagen

ved he can be aronned with the Iratruction to contact

the :!I imelintal! 1: the sovicts shoula seek to

rc-csiablish

connection lith hin in tho usi.

761.379118

---

