capus sig olssam ay 22}

i pen SOP ID roraccoriss 25. RUN BY z
: nzpxopUctos Sy orsaa THA
SECRET {ASUING OFFICE IB PROWISITAL
PERION/UNIT NOTIFRO.

ADVANCE COPY | 5
ACTION UNIT y
' . FILE. Tt efit) 000
" A IN ae i G 217y

fe. sf

a G

eee Cece te Yd ia

353 F5)

STAFF.

AETION > F| er Pian, S54 » CulOP a, CSS y Pee :

° | 7
Palin ae clops, Ps

3ipy

7 079937 Oi pre IN 8027s
TORD48292 JUN 75 5789@

SECRET igisadz JUN 75 STAFF
cite[_)578e0
TO! DIRECTOR, allie at
waorDer UNION) ble

4, ACCRODING TO. AFP RELEASE, FRENCH TELEVI je ok
ONE WILL CARRY SERIES OF FOUR INTERVIEWS THIS WEEK CONCERNING 0° &
CIA ROLE IN U,S, AND ABROAD, INTERVIEWS OF TEN MINUTES E a /
DURATION EACH WERE CONDUCTED BY ORTF REPORTER MICHEL ANFROL a ree

AND WILL 8& SHOWN AS FOLLOWS!

A, TUESDAY, 19 JUNE! FRANK STURGIS, FORMER CHIEF OF
AERIAL SECURITY IN CUBA, ONE OF THE WATERGATE BURGLARS» WHO
CLAIMS TO HAVE PREPARED SEVERAL ASSASSINATION PLANS AGAINST
CASTRO.

B, WEDNESDAY, 14. JUNE AND FRIDAY, 43 JUNE! HARRY
ROSITZKEs CLA DIVISION CHIEF AND KGB SPECIALIST, WHO EXPLAINS
AND DEFENS WORK OF THE AGENCYS so z

C, MONDAY, 16 JUNE! PHILIPPE THYRAUD DE VOSJOLI
(TOPAZ) (SIC), FORMER SDECE REP WASHINGTON, WILL GIVE HIS
OPINION OF THE CIA AND ON "ASSASSINATION ATTEMPTS AND THE
KENNEDY AFFAIR",

a
m
a
7
nm
Me


t RPT MFG. 2/75

{
i SECRET (seuina Orrick ts pron!
| pengonsuntt NoTIFIRO.
; STAFF
BY. AT. z.
AGTION UNIT 1 4
'] Re. Fine. VR, 7 al
| Ne $
“ FD

ACTION # bi - i
| °
1

T 879937 EyA258 PAGE. B2-62 IN 604172

i
1 20°
TORs1918292 JUN 73 ot 57808

2, SINCE THIS STRICTLY FRENCH TV PRODUCTION» EXPECT

NO REPERCUSSIONS FROM UNION RE DE VOSJOLI ROLE.
3, FILE! MHORDER, E2 IMPDET

- i SECRET ine)
