# 104-10123-10377

## Page 1

104-10123-10377

SECRET

MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING

0-3

JAMES

W. MCCORD.R

Comes W 9?4ou2

5244

_ understand that by virtue of y

duties I may be the recipient of information, material and data which con-

cerns the security of the United States. This information is classified

according to the security standards set by the United States Government. I

am aware that the unzuthorized disclosure of such information is prohibited

by the Espionage Laws, (18 USC Secs. 793 and 794), and the National Security

Act of 1947 which specifically requires the protection of the Classified Pro-

grams from unauthorized disclosure.

I do solemnly swear or affirm that I will never divulge, publish.or

reveal by word, conduct or by any other means such information or knowledge

concerning my present duties except when necessary to do so in the perform

ance of my official duties and in accordance with the laws of the United

States, unless specifically authorized in writing in each and every case by a

duly authorized representative of the United States Government.

In the event of a change of duties, resignation or termination of my

services or any other change in my relationship, I understand that the pro-

visions of this oath will remain binding upon me.

I agree that in the event I am ever called upon to testify in a court

of law, administrative proceedings or other tribunal regarding information

within the scope of this oath, I will notify a duly authorized representative

of the United States Government immediately; I will aleo advise the court

or tribunal of my oath to the United States Government and request that

my need to testify be established before l am required to do so.

I understand that this oath will be retzined by the United States Government

for its future use in any matter within the scope of this oath.

I take this obligation freely, without any mental reservation or purpose

of evasion and in the absence of duress.

(Signature

CIA/DOS/OS

(Organization)

Security

(Title)

16 Oct 63

(Date)

Witnessed By:

03

SECRET

---

