# 104-10308-10191

## Page 1

104-10308-10191

- CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

HOM

i CHON

18IFO

SECRET

A ROUTINO:

DIRECTOR

5 - M

17206

3

6

(GENEVA

22,

SEE LEE NOTIFIE AND COPY SLOTTED AT 1550, à MAR GU (F8) ?

DOP,

•ADOP

C/500.4

C/SR 5, C/WH- 5, VR

C/DOOS/LL C/DOOS 4, C/SPOG, C/CA 2, G/CA/0 4, C/CI,

9296

021722%

i:20-0

20-11

PRIORIT

DIR, INFO PRIORITY BERN CITE GNVA 6313

NEAT SHOE OUT SI PERUMEN

12126130483

NO SI (IN 29311).

HAD CIRCA TWO AND HALF HOUR MEET WITH SUBJ LATE

EVENINO SO FEB. THIS FOLLOWED BY DOUBLE BRUSH MEET LATE

EVENINGOMMARCH AT WHICH SUBJ PASSED US AND ROVD BACK.

DOCUMENT WHICH PHOTOGRAPHED (SEE BELOW)

Die paras

INGENERAL COMMENT: SUBJ CHARACTERIZES PRESENT. TRIP

AS MOST INTERESTING TO DATE" FROM POINT OF INTEL. WE BELIEVE

CONTINUED DEBRIEFING WILL BEAR THIS OUT, SUBS GREAT FATIGUE

AND INEVITABLE SIDE DISCUSSIONS AFTER RETURI FROM HOMELAND

LIMITED BOTH LENGTH OF MEETING AND BREADTH AND DEPTH OF

NITIAL DEBRIEFING.

NEVERTHELESS-WE ABLE COVER SUBSTANTIAL -

KRANDE ON HIGHLY SIGNIFICAVDE TOPICS.

20 0 20

SINISH NOTE THAT SITUATION DESCRIBED SY SUSU, PER BELOW,

'TATERNAL ALIGNMENTS, AND EXTERAL ATTITUDE ON "SINO SOVIET

• STRUGGLE"

IS SUBTLE, NUANCED, COMPLICATED, AND "CUSAN" UNDER

BEST OF CIRCUMSTANCES AND SUBJ OWN WELL KNOWN COMPLEXITY OF

300:

TO l4 inT

pol.

1101 SECRET FI

S0M:11a1ri

• дл

* REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

CAQUE

shaded

Copy

No.

201--92-39

---

## Page 2

13-00000

CLASSRIED MESSAGE.

SECRET

IN SEE - PAGE 2

DELIVERY ADOS FURTLE DIMENSION OF DIFFICULTY. CONSIDERABLE

URTHER DEBRIEFING WILL BE NECESSARY TO GET TOPICS IN FULL

PERSPECTIVE. NEVERTHELESS BELIEVE OU BASIS INITIAL DEBRIEFING

HAVE UNDERSTOOD ESSENCE OF SITUATION SUFFICIENTLY TO PERMIT •

INTEL DISSEM. RELIEVE ALSO CONTINUED DEBRLEFING WILL CONFIRM

INITIAL IMPRESSION THAT SUSJ HAS SECURED PARTICULARLY! VALUABLE

INSISHT INTO TOP LEVEL THINKING SEVERAL IMPORTANT ARÇAS. WILL MAXE

CONTINUED DEBRIEFINS TOP PRIORITY CONCERN, BUT UNFORTUNATELY

20-11.

SUBS MOVEMENT HIGHLY LIMITED SY PRESENCE ENVA OF BROUP OF

CUSANS FOR WHO AND OTHER MATTERS AND ANOTHER TOP LEVEL

20÷18

GROUP WILL COMMENCE ARRIVING

ENVA CIRCA MARCH FOR [UNCAST

CONF. VE HOPE BE ABLE BRIAX BACK OF PROBLEM WITH CIRÇA SIX -

EISHT HOUR DEBRIEFING SUBJ PROJECTED FOR I MARCH IN ZURI

40 PERSONAL AND OP HIGHLIGHTS OF MEETING AND DEBRIEFING FOLL:

.AO PERSONAL RPT PERSONAL: SUSJ IS ELATED BY FACT OF SUCCESSFUL

ROUND TRIP, AND OF TREATMENT ACCORDED HIM HAVA. HE HOWEVER

IN STATE OF GROSS FATIGUE AND TEARS OF TIREDNESS WERE

ROLLING DOWN HIS CHEEKS WHEN WE TERMINATED MEET.

WE MAKING STRONGEST EFFORT PERSUADE

HIM GET AWAY ON WEEKENDS,-SINCE-FEAR HE CANNOT 80 ON

MUCH LONGER AT PRESENT SEVEN DAY WEEK, NO VACATION. SCHEDULE.

HE HAS AGREED ÜTILIZE EURY DEBRIEFING TRIP FOR AT LEAST THIRTY-

SIX HOUR PERSONAL BREATHER.

B. (OPERATIONAL RPT OPERATIONALA SUBJ ENCOUNTERED UNEXPECTED

TRAVE RISK DURING HAVA STAY GIRCA TEN DAYS AFTER ARRIVALA

E SUDDENLY DENOUNCED AS "'COUNTER REVOLUTIONARY" BY FORMER AIDE

L04:

SECRET eCC

1

---

## Page 3

13-00000

S

• MESSACE

SECRET

IN 30 4:

- PAGES-

TEORO GONZALES PENIROTES AND SA62)T SEN OUTATION) VICH MADE

TOTIN FORN AFFAIRS COLLEGIUS, APPAREVTLY RESULT PINEIRD BITTERNESS

TOWARDS SUBJ, ASSRAVATED BY RAUL TOA

REFUSAL gRa'T @INEIRO DESIRAbLE

POST FOR WHICH HE REQUESTED BY NAYS.

EVERYONE FROM ROA

ON DOWS

RALLIED TO SURJ, AND BINEIRO HAS NOT YET COME 1P

CHARGES. HOWEVER, VIEW SRAVE NATURE CHARGES AND FAST ELETEO

MUST BACK THEM UP OR FACE DISMISSAL AND PERHAPS BAVISIMENT TO

PROVINCES, SUBJ HAS NOT HEARD LAST OF MATTER AND AT LEAST

EXPECTS MUST ANSWER SPECIFIC CHARSES, WHEY FORIHCOMING, IN

WRITING®

C. THERE NO QUESTION BUT THAT CINEIRO ACTION NOT ROT NOT REGIME

PLOT AGAINST SUBJ

YIS RECALL WAS FOR REASO'S STATED BY MAVA

IN RECALL CABLE, AVD HE GIVEN EXCELLENT TRATYENT. VAS CONSTAYILY

CLOSETED WITH SOA, MAD INTERVIEN WITH DORTICOS, AND SPOKE AT

SESSIOY PRESIDED OVER BY DORTICOS AND ATTENDED BY "CHE" GUEVARA,.

CARLOS RAFAEL RODRIGUEZ AND ROÀ, AMOUS OTHERS, AT WITCH ELUITASTZOI

CONF AND RANGE OF CUBAN EXTERNAL TRADE PROBLEMS WAS-TOPIC. •

D.--SUBJ EXCELLENT POSITION MAY HAVE DRASTIC CONSEQUENCES.

HE ESTIMATES MAY BE RECALLED AT SOME POINT TO FILL UPPER LEVEL

POST, AND PARTICULARLY CONCERNED THIS RESARO VIEW FACT THAT

VICE MINISTER OF FORN TRADE LLOMPART RODRIGUEZ, JOE OF

FOUR VICE MINISTERS, REINS SENT RENTINA 15 AJASSADOR AND THIS

LEAVING VACANT POST FOR WHICH SUBJ EMINENTLY QUALIFIED. TUBJ

AT OP MEETING SERVED LOW KEY BUT EMPHATIC VOTICE HE WILL NOT

ACCEPT POS

ASSIGNMENT HAVA "AT ANY PRICE." WE DID NOT DEEM

MOMENT SUITASLE FOR DETAILED EXPLORATION WHICH CAN AWAIT

TERMINATION PRESSING INTEL DEBRIEFINS.

SECRET

---

## Page 4

13-00000

73093..65

Зі Ка

MESSAGE

SSE.

SECRET

INTEL DEBRIEFING HIGHLIGNTS FOLL:

A. CASTRO TRIP MOSCOW: TRIP MADE PRIMARILY TO SAIN USSR

ECONOMIC AID, SECONDARILY TO SHOW PSP "OLD GUARD" THEY NO LONGER

NECESSARY IN CASTRO DEALINES WITH USSR.

SOVIET AID

ACCURATELY DESCRIBED IN PRESS REPORTS.

B. CUBAN/US RELATIONS AND GUANTANAMO: CASTRO SINCERELY

LESIRES NEGOTIATE DETENTE WITH US.. CONCERIED PRES JOHNSON WILL

NOT FOLLOW KENNEDY COURSE WHICH "MIGHT MAVE LED TO MEGOTIATIONS."

KHRUSHCKEV IN MOSCON CONVINCED CASTRO "CARPISEAN PEACE" WORKS

TO CUBAN ADVANTAGE AND MUST BE STRENGTHENED. IN ADDITION,

CASIRO CONVINCED CUSAN PROSPERITY NOT ACHIEVABLE WITH SOV AID

ALONE. HE INFURIATEO RECAUSE "FISHING BOAT" INCIDENT COUSTITHTED

OBSTACLE TO BETTERMENT US CUBAN RELATIONS, BUT PRESTISE FORCES

HIM. TAKE SOME ACTION. IN CUTTINS GUANTAIANO WATER, APPASENTLY

CHOSE ACTION LEAST LIKELY TO ESCALATE. DIS ALTESNATIVE CONGIDERED

A'D ABANDONED WAS FIRING AT "U-2" FLIGHTS, WHICH CUBANS APPARENTLY

ABLE TRACK.

C. LATIN AMERICA: CASTRO CONVINCED KHPUSHCHEY WILL NOT

SUPPORT REVOLUTION IN LATIN AMERICA, VIEW DESIRE MAINTAIN STATIS

QUO WITY DRYCHE. CASTRO HAS TOLD LATIN AMERICAN

A"BASSADORS HAVA

•HE WILL STOP ACTIVITY AGAINST ALL LOA. COUITRIES IS LATTER VILL

+ RECIPROCATE, 30A BELIEVES THIS SERIOUS OFFER.

DO SONO SOVIET STRUSOLE: VERY COMPLICATER. EXTERMALLY, TH

ESSENCE, CASTRO BELIEVES CHICOMS RIGHT IN CLAL INS USSR BETRAYING

ORTHODOX COMMUNIST DOCTRINES, BUT CHICOYS ARE "FARCEURS" WYO HAVE

NOTHING SUSSTANTIAL TO OFFER CUBA OR UNDERSEVELOPED WORLD. HENCE

FOR PRAGMATIC REASONS CUBA SUPPORTINS SOVIET COURSE. CHE GUEVARA TI,

C

SECRET

---

## Page 5

13-00000

MESSAGE

SECRET

PRONGEST PRO CHINESE. " INTERNALLY, FIDELISTAS WHILE COMMITED

MARXISM-LENNISM, DETERMINED IT VILL BE ALONG CUBAN RATHER THAN

"RUSIAN"

ALINE AND STRUGGLE UNDER WAY ON: THIS ISSUE®

FREE OLD GUARD" CASTRO CONVINCED THEY STILL CONSPIRING

GAINST KIM AND THAT CARLOS RAFAEL RODRIGUEZ IS AND HAS BEEN ANTI-

DELISTAN

LEADER: CAMPAIGN TO DISCREDIT AND FURTHER DIMINISH

FLUENCE "OLD GUARD! CURRENTLY UNDER WAY

• 'INTERNAL ECONOMICS"

MAJOR PREOCCUPATION OF REGIME, BOTH

TO MAINTAIN POPULAR SUPPORT AND TQ DEMONSTRATE "INDEPENDENCE FROM

RUSSIFICATION,"'. IS TO SATISFY CONSUMER NEEDS AND CATEGORICALLY RESIST

CLASSIC EASTERN EUROPEAN PATTERN OF SACRIFICE TO CONSTRUCT SOCIALISM.

Go : UNCTAD AND FORN TRADES UNABLE DEBRIEF SUBJ THIS TOPIC

QUE HIS SUDDEN SUCCUMBING TO FATIGUE AS WE ABOUT COMMENCE. HOWEVER

VIA 1, MARCH BRUSH MEETS SECURED. AND PHOTOGRAPHED CIRCA HUNDRED

PAGE REPORT OF VICE MINISTER FORN TRADE MALDANADO

ON TALKS ON

INGTAD WITH EUROPEAN ORBIT MEMBERS JANUARY 64. POUCHING FILM FRAN 3

MARCHY

WITH CABLE INSTRUCTIONS EXPEDITE MOVEMENT TO MITOPAZ, DEVELOP.

SEND PRINTS PRIORITY BASIS DIRECTLY TO HOS.

%:

POUCHING FURTHER DETAILS PARA FOUR. INTEL CABLES FOLLOW ON

PARA FIVE STEMS. PLS NOTE, INTEND IN FURTHER DEBRIEFING COVER

AREAS ASIDE FROM THOSE INCLUDED PARA S, WHICH ALL THAT

PERUITTED®

ABLE IS MORE THAN A YEAR. OLD.

: SECRET

---

