# 104-10113-10365

## Page 1

104-10113-10365

31. Octoiner 1960

HIMORAADUM FOR: Chial, Security Razaarch Sta!!

SHON

SUBJECT

: M. I. stevens

: Amarican Delecrore

¡forence ly made lo a verbal reguos to you from te-DC/O6 lor is

formation rejarding any American citizens who have dofocied to tra U553.

Red China, or olhor Saiolllio counsrien during the past sightoen moschan

O:her than Berron F. MITCHELL. and Williara H. MARTIN, ard flva otbes

defectors razarding whom MI. OTETRA of she Stato Departmons Security

Vifice already has information fi.e. ROboTi kdIATO HiSSTEN, EE-13854;

LE HATROY UST'ALD, MS-11169; LIDASO HICCLANDELLI, M5-9295; VLaS-

iml: SLOBODA, 215-10565; and Joseph DUTKANICZ, Si5-19724).

ecarley filos roflect toa: the subjeera of the atiachad mamoranda a==

ciditional American citisens mho hare delacted to the Soviets or shais

satellites during llo past olghteen montha.

5ay0=al 01 the above infe-red to coloctora have jeen of interca: to cil:

¡¡oriert Les NOBIHAUP, Cô923, was a stil craployes of shis agancy

15am May 1951 80 lay 1959. A more detailai dummary than irai includse

in the allached group has boon prepared on him.

RObert EdwArd WEBSTER, EI-18952, and Nicholas PETRULLI, SE

19439, 59T9 Baujacaof OO/C requests on 29 May 1959 and 15 June 1939,

respecitaly, with a view so shair bainy dobrialed upon their retarna from

viaits to Rusola. Noliber was Interriomod by GLA, either boíoss or afta=

thoir volts.

Wità soferenca to Nicholaa PETRULLl, il la noted that bia consis

Michael Thomas SortiALIs

SSD 34239. la a former CLA 20998: 332-

ployas. who cas amalgaod tol

Jand also tood part la PaSUCCESS. As o! Jaly i95à la suga is

be Lab.1slod as ho chose to return to pilvara enploymani. SCERALLI

satised during an 19D Interrior In Say 1933

Polygraph info

JCHhALL Has bOrs and raiged e9 Long lOlad; aad cabaagataiy Das

angiogod la vardon placas on Long lalsa. Erom Tabraary so dori: 1750.

no maa omployod by a TY firm in Vallay Stasam, Long lalana;

Pely apapa info

1ae cho dre oi lla disar-

ria», PETIULLI a emplayed as a shaal modi sorter in Valloy Sirearo,

+---:--for-see

---

## Page 2

"#"5N LA DO IOTi la 1. S. Jar RaDDlA la 1950 Bad bio five broshore live sa Lose

VARUN BLOBODA LO CUTTONTlY Ol SAlOTONS lO SOERTIlY lO VIOR el 1IO DOPÍgIO

19601 19 :he 31910 Military Inmiligance Cronp la Frantiar, 008493% (EGIS Conler).

Bare ba bad contes vill at lonal one repredentalive al ClA gol sua in I pealitor la

RATe lOBYsOd the lOOntlios ol ClA pOrsonnel al lo EGIS Casser.

Tillam A. MONGAN lAs Seen Al intarest to Security sa thai oa 27 darch 1999,

cao rennontad a enoch on tos, la connection withi

However.

cancelled

1:a regaool as of 5 may 1959.

28

LiDArá NIXUN on 6 Sapromber 1960, opponhod a ClA agos in FrsOdy'O Sur la

Damsaçn and engagod him in converstior, following which ou: sgout loand Noseli

andor ourveillance. Tao surveillance contisuad for ine days, slier ailed our 8Jeas

E31 approached in Eroddy' Bar by au catno, Go? allleer the sakod tim abou

NIXON; and thereaftar the aurrelilasce ceased. (The omnor al Eroddye Bar and

reporiOd MIXON to 0-3, as be sald he one raining bie breisesa.)

#'illa delacror no Caba and tha DAt may nol sochalcally se daleciora le Saviol

sa exsatrir, ensatrid, ll soomos close lains nad the dames of auch basra deloress

15 1ào pool eighteen mealso hare boos lad uded la shie ramorariar.

M. D. 5197058

04/5298 3D5:eJe

---

