# 104-10186-10085

## Page 1

104-10186-10085

aNFORMATION REPORTE

TINFORMATION REPORTA

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY Cuba

REPORT NO.

SUBJECT "Alberto" (an alias)

DATE DISTR

CSCI-316/00539-65

5 February 1965

NO. PAGES

1

REFERENCES

RETUAN TO CIA

Background Use Only

• Do Not Reproduce

DATE OF

INTO.

1964

PLACE & Washington,

D.

C.

DATE ACQ. January 1965

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINOS ARE OEFINITIVE, APPRAISA OR, CONTENT IS TENTATIVE

SOURCE: A former Cuban IS ofiicer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Service until April 196.•

Neadquarters Conments

The following report is one of a series containing personality

information proviue.

by the source

and includes supplemental

information iro.. the records of this Agency.

It is requeste:

the

individuals

that"

aderessees ta'se no action on any of

centioned in the personality reports without

dirst checxing with this Agency.

1.

"Alberto" is employei by the Direccion General de

Intelliencia

(General" Directorate of Intelligence - DGI)

and handles the liaison with airport personnel concerning

the entry and exit os forcigners who are of interest to

the DGI.

lie carries a carnet oi the Cuban Ninistry of Interior.

2.

"Alberto" is a Cuban citizen and was born in about

1925.

He

¿ive feet seven inches tall, weighs 150 pounds,

and has a merium build.

"Alberto" has a

white complexion,

blond, wary hair, a short, thin, blond and greying mustache,

and light colored eyes.l

Neadquarters Conment

The records oi this Agency reveal no identifiable

information on "Alberto."

4

2

STATE

: 1 01A

1 ARMY

REP

CINCLANT

Nora field disserbution indieated by "E*.)

I NAVY

CINCSO #

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

TAIR

INSA

IRNS

compet oport

1 oce

FBI 2

INFORMATION RERORI

INEORMATIONEREPORT

DE

TIF

2L LEL

SiEL

RUD/IS

ME 1 (:), CIA.

RID 1

11A150%#

142071

NO PROJECT (A:X:UG/1

- CSCI-316/00529-65

CACIMATINO, RELEASIO

:LD: sk

---

