104-10186-10245)

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

‘Toe material ccatatne informetinn effecting the Neticael Defense of the United Saw wai the meaning of the Espionage Laws fitla *
1 CSC ec HS and TH the Kansmimire of fereition of whieh In any manne Wag uneuthorieed ferme ts prohibieed ty tae,

SECRET ‘
NO FOREIGN DISSEW

cotare Cuba : RAT NO. CSCI-316/0t212-64
SUMECT Rodolfo or Radulfo PABZ Perez DATE DSR «16 |. orn
Noses 2 ow
REFERENCES Sy oon
Ina 1964 oes ee

pace & Washington, D. C.
DATE ACQ. September 1964 FELD RCRT NO.
THIS 18 UNEVALUATED INFOMMATICN SOURCE ORADINOS ARE DENTE APPRAISAL OF CONTENT 13 TENTATIVE.

A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

SOURCE:
Service until April 1964

Headquarters Comments

The following report is one of a series containing personality
information provided by the source and includes supplemental
information from the records of this Agency.

It is requested that the addressces take no action on any of
the individuals mentioned in the personality reports without

first checking with this Agency.

1. Rodolfo or Radulfo PAEZ Perez, pseudonym "Pelayo," is
the Chief of Personnel for the Direccion General de Inteligencia
(General Directorate of Intelligence ~ DNGI). He also carries
a Ministry of the Interior carnet. z

2. PAEZ, according to source, was bera about 1936, is five
feet seven or eight inches tall, 170 pourcds. He has black, wavy
hair, a white complexion, thick, fat lips, a thick, fat neck,
and large protruding eyes .1,2,3-

Headquarters Comments

1. An untested source, reported in a-report dated 22 May 1962,
that Radulfo PAKS Perez, Third Secretary of the Cuban
Embassy in Mexico City, 1s a aember of the Cuban G-2. He

.Was scheduled to return to Cuba within the next two or
three months. ~ .¢

2. A n @ report dated 28 December 1962,
stated that Rada Pé¥ez, Third Secretary of the Cuban
Embassy in Mexico City, was suspected of being a Cuban’

Intelligence officer and a code clerk trained by the Cuban G-2. 5
4
SECRET aa 3
NO FOREIGN DISSEW tmattmrm| 2
Lams 1
wat Toa Tame way dare “Tas WRK Toe Far 2
|___.__REP__CINCLANT.___CINCSQ_ # _I&NS 7 :

Nets Fail date bution indwated by "27>

g fom pee/aane zene sta, eS 8as-
JL SACMORL | WE / MA! DR 12; CLARA | NO PROJECT (ANWUG/1)
af——___}. [ie SC1-316/01 213-44

Sala i ame Tene jaar ose

wWH/SA-7 (1), MB 1 (2), Cl 4, RIDT “*e LD awk
Rea |



SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSES CSC1-316//01212-64

PAEZ and Manuel VERGA Perez were responsible for sotting up the new
"Committee in Defe: of the Cuban Revolution.” PAEZ' wife 18

Teresa Pantaleom HERNANDEZ de Pacz.

A report dated 23 January 1963, revealed that Radulfo PAEZ Perez
had been replaged as Third Secretary of the Cuban Embassy in Mexico
City by Pedro LARA Munoz.

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

