# 104-10234-10127

## Page 1

104-10234-10127

AKTHRO-2

#32 1n SEQUENCE)

MGE # (UNNUMBERED - POSSIBLY

DATED: 8 MARCH 1966

RECEIVED CUBA DESE:

23 MARCH 1966

"...

=*:

ros ricar ride niece river

& ALTHOUCE CONTACTS HAVE BENT MADE WITH CAMAGUZYANOS NO ONE

KNOWS ABOUT MASS ARRESTS IN THR CAMAGUSY PROVINCE RECENTLY. ONE

CONTACT "SI" RPT "9I" TOLD HE THAT HR UNDERSTOOD THERE HAD BREN

ARRESTS IN HOLGUIN (ORIENTE). I WILL CONTINUE INVESTIGATING.

5. ALTHOUGE THE RUMORS CIRCULATE INCHRASINGLY SINCE THS ABARST

OF CUBELA I HAVE BREN ABLE TO CONFIRM WITH MORE OR LESS CIRTAINTEY

THR FOLLOWING: THE RAUL - FIDRI, CONFLICT HAS INTENSIFIED TO SOCH

AN EXTENT SINCE THE CUBAN-CHINESE CONFLICT THAT DIRECT CONTROL BY

FIDEL OF THE ARMED FORCES (FAR) IS CONSIDERED CERTAIN. RAUL REACHEE

THE POINT OF REQUESTING THE RESIGNATION OF RAMIRO VALDES BUT THE

LATTER REFLIED TRAT ONLY FIDEL COULD REHOVE HIM, CORBOBORATING THIS

CONFLIÇA AMONG THE MILITARY, I CAN SAY THAT A FRIEND OF MINE

WITNESSED IN MARIANAO, IN THR FULL LIGHT OF DAY, LAST THURSDAY

...

---

## Page 2

NGE DTD 8 HAR 66

- 2-

ANTILEO-2

LE MARCH 18667 AN AUTONOBILE OF THE G-2 ORDER 2 MOTORCYCIE POLICEMEN

TO OVERTAKE ANOTHER AUTOHOBILE WHICH CARRIED S PAR OFFICERS. THE

LATTER WERE DISARMED BY MEMBERS DE THE G-2 AND THEN CARRIED OFF

UNDKR ARREST IN THE 2 CARS.

S. TAURET CHAUSONT (SIC) LTAURE CICHONY HAS DISAPPRARED.

(BONES PEOPLE SUPPOSE THAT HE IS IN AN XUBASSY).

7. TES UNIVIABITY ZHAVANA UNIVERSITY/ IS AGITATED BY THE

He and met To t pare or cus.

AND FINALLY, MOST OF THE PRISONERS WIO WERE IN THE G-2

(VILLA "HARISTA") MERE TRANSPERRED TO LA BABANA IN ORDER TO PILL IT

WITH HEY PRISONERS.

GREFTINGS,

ILEO

2 - CC's TO

1-CC - CUBILA FILE

I - CE - RAUL CASTRO FILE

1 - CC - FIDE CASTRO FILE

I - CC - FAURE CHORON FILE

This larks

ixe

soww

_FOR REPORTS

ALASH - I

-....

.. ..

1928r 119

Dress

---

