HOot0340100} : : , .

ar —_— C
cs BY = ss . rae

SEGRET SENSITIVE

¢

Mexico Station Coverage of Soviet and Cuban Embassies (1963)

1. Unilateral Coverage: :
i From the time the Mexico Station was opened Gn April prib 1947) until

the arrival of Mr. Win Scott as Chief of Station(in 1955,\\the Station had
‘developed a support apparatus to exploit leads from the Soviet Embassy in

Mexico City. This umbrella type project (LIPSTICK) consisted of multiline

phone taps, three photographic sites, a mobile surveillance team and a
mail intercept operation.

Telephone taps (LIFEAT) were placed by(an. employes: of the local

{telephone company who was, handled by a Station case officer. The number

of lines tapped was limited only by the availability of a listening post

nearby and the availability of Jangauge (English, Spanish, Soviet, Polish,
Czech, etc.) transcribers. Generally, these were Mexican or Mexican-
American recruited agents.

Three photographic sites were handled by a Station case officer
assisted by technicians on TDY from Headquarters who advised the Station
on the best types of cameras, films, and concealment devices. These
‘operations had sub-crypts under project LIPSTICK (namely: LIMITED, LILYRIC
and LICALLA). LIMITED was a fixed site directly opposite the Soviet Em-
bassy (across the street) which had both a vehicle and a pedestrian en-

trance. The gate to the Soviet Embassy was on the northwest corner of the

i £2, IMPDET
CEPRFTRENCITR 6 TS


Soviet compound and the LIMITED site was diagonally across a double laned
street on the southeast corner of that block. ; (See attached diagram).

LIMITED was the first photo base and operated strictly on an experimental

basis in the early stages. This base, however, was closed when the Sta-

tion received word that the photograph of. the "unidentified man" was
being released by the Warren Commission. LILYRIC was an alternate photo-
graphic base. It was located in an upper story of an apartment building:
on the same side of the street’ ‘as the LIMITED site but in the middle of
the block south. It had a planted view of the front gate of the Soviet
Embassy. LICALLA, the third photographic site, was located in one of-a
row of four houses on the south side of the Soviet, Embassy compound.

This site overlooked the back garden of the Soviet Embassy compound. The
Purpose of this operation was to get good identification photographs of
Soviet personnel. The three photographic sites were managed by a re~
cruited agent who was a Mexican citizen, the son of an American mother
and Mexican father (deceased). This agent collected the film from the

LIMITED and LILYRIC sites three times a week. The film was then de-

veloped and printed ji

originally processed in the Station but in early

to 8 x 10 contact. print strips. LICALLA film was

959; due to the resig-
nation of a technician, this film like that of LIMITED. and LILYRIC was

Processed on the outside by a recruited agent. a

n

SEGRET/SENSHTVE

Shean we


Mobile surveillance was conducted by two American staff officers.
These two officers organized a surveillance team of six recruited agents
which used late model cars and a panel truck for surveillance. The team
could be activated by radio from the LIMITED site whenever someone of
interest left the gate of the Soviet Embassy. These agents were a of
the LIMITED site since they had been issued’ LIMITED photographs for
identification purposes.

The Station’ also conducted aGgadlagergy) mail intercept operation,
LIBIGHT which was ed by an American case officer. (recruited
RWhiowhaldea: nde 5 ik ana ta ned selected letters
from a aati ae ‘the Mexican postal system.)

[RRR

Liaison we unreliable and insecure as characterized by

the nature of the Mexican : ‘services} at that time. The Mexican Direction .

of Federal Security (DFS), with which we conducted liaisony" was a hip-
pocket group run out of the Mexican Ministry of Government. This Ministry
-was principally occupied with political investigations and control of
foreigners. Their agents were saat Teed and corrupt. {A Station >
r-trained a number of them in name tracing and travel contro

telephone tap |

1, a jo

‘(1958.,.-at at instigation of a Mexican offici

‘operation came into existence. _The operation, which _became known 8 as }



seer sensi

4
Eneererar sasha ane? qannanneal pat * * *
(LIENVOY, was run by a Mexican officer.y The listening post had 30 lines

connected at one time. The transcription room was staffed by fMextcan ;

}

ist the Station chief, himself, became the project case officer. A
Station officer assisted him in the daily supervision of the listening
Post, and in picking up the transcripts and the tapes. There was also
an American technician inside the listening post.

3. Oswald Coverage: Lv
In mid-1962, {the Mexican officer in charge of LIENVOY (the }

{Soint tap operation) asked the American officer at the LIENVOY listening }
post for the telephone numbers of the Soviet, Cuban. and Satellite Em-

veraget The Station immediately

ateral telephone taps on these Embassiés so >)

_The Mexicans }soon thereafter connected five Cuban lines, five
Soviet lines, three Czech lines, two Polish lines, and one. Yugoslav -
line. At the listening post, a live monitor made short summaries of
conversations of interest which were then included in a daily resume
for the Chief of Station. Later, when a reel was completely recorded,
full transcripts were typed and passed to the Station; however, there

was'usually a time lag of a day or two. Reels: which. contained Russian

SEGRET/SEHSTTVE


SECRET /SENSHIVE

er a language other than Spanish or English were taken to another location
for translation and typing. Mr. Boris Tarasoff did the Russian transla-
tions but because of the volume of Russian conversations, the translations.
usually ran about a week behind the date of the conversation:

As soon as the Station learned that an Anerican identifying him-
self as Lee Oswald phoned the Soviet Embassy, Miss Ann Goodpasture of the
Station started screening al] photographs. . However, here again, there
was a backlog because the photographs were picked up three times a week
but those picked up were usually for dates a few days before since the
technician who was processing the film, did so on a night-time basis.
Further, photographs were not made initially until a complete roll of
film was used. Later this was changed and the operator cleared the camera
at the end of each day regardless of amount of unused: film remaining.

The instructions were to cover the entire work day (office hours) and to.
photograph all Soviets, their families, .all foreigners, and’ cars with
foreign license plates. Human error did occur. but generally the agents
were conscientious. The Cuban Embassy coverage had more sophisticated
equipment using a pulse camera which frequently developed mechanical dif-
ficulties.

Oswald came to the attention of the: ‘listening post cere

from a tap of the Soviet Tine. iIt was picked up and taken to]Mr. Boris

5

SEGRET/SENSITIVE



Tarasoff for translation because the caller was trying to speak in Russian.
There was some delay because Station personnel waited to compare the

photographs with the typed transcript. All transcripts were made in

either Spanish or English’ since the Chief of Station could read only

these two languages and because he personally screened the transcripts

: for operational leads ,



TSE HOHE

Mexico Station Coverage of Soviet and Cuban Embassies (1963)

1. Unilateral Coverage:

From the time the Mexico Station was opened {in April 1 y947\until
the arrival of Mr. Win Scott as Chief of Station lin 1955, \the Station had
developed a support apparatus to exploit leads from the Soviet Embassy in
Mexico City. This umbrella type project (LIPSTICK) consisted of multiline
phone taps, three photographic sites, a mobile surveillance team and a
mail intercept operation.

Telephone taps (LIFEAT) were. placed by @n employee of the Tocal \
{telephone company who was} handled by a Station case officer. The number
of lines tapped was limited only by the availability of a Tistening post
nearby and the availability of langauge (English, Spanish, Soviet, Polish,
Czech, etc.) transcribers. Generally, these were Mexican or Mexican- :
American recruited agents.

Three photographic sites were handled. by a Station case officer
assisted by technicians on TDY from Headquarters who advised the Station
on the best types of cameras, films, and concealment devices. These
operations had sub-crypts under project LIPSTICK (namely: LIMITED, LILYRIC
and LICALLA). LIMITED was a fixed site directly opposite the Soviet Em-
bassy (across the street) which had both a vehicle and a pedestrian en-

trance. The gate to the Soviet Embassy was on the northwest corner of the

tL "ay 004645
5 “ AL 2
CLPRIT CENCE


u

’ SEDRE [sais Se

Soviet compound and the LIMITED site was diagonally across a double laned
street on the southeast corner of that block. (See attached diagram).
LIMITED was the first photo base and operated strictly on an experimental

basis. in the early stages. This base, however, was closed when the Sta-

_tion received word that the photograph of the "unidentified man” was

~ being released by the Warren Commission. LILYRIC was an alternate Photo- i

graphic base. It was located in an upper story of an apartment building
on the same side of the street as the LIMITED site but in the middie of

‘the block south. It had a planted view of the front gate of the. Soviet

Embassy. LICALLA, the third photographic site, was located in one of a
row of four houses on the south side of the Soviet Embassy compound.
This site overlooked the back garden of the Soviet Embassy compound. The
purpose of this operation was to get good identification photographs of
Soviet personnel. The three photographic sites were Managed by a re-
cruited agent who was a Mexican citizen, the son of ani American mother
and Mexican father (deceased). This agent collected the film from. the
LIMITED and LILYRIC sites three times a week. The film was then de-
veloped and printed into 8 x 10 contact print strips. LICALLA film was
originally processed in the Station but in early @S, due to the resig-
nation of a technician, this film like that.of LIMITED. and LILYRIC was

Processed on the outside by a recruited agent.

SECRET /SENSITNE



Mobile surveillance was conducted by two American staff officers.
These two officers organized a surveillance team of six recruited agents
which used late model cars and a panel truck for surveillance. The team
could be activated by radio from the LIMITED site whenever someone of
interest left the gate of the Soviet Embassy. These agents were aware of
the LIMITED site since they had been issued LIMITED photographs for
identification purposes.

The Station also conducted a unilateral mail intercept operation,
LIBIGHT, which was handled by an American case officer. A recruited
Mexican agent, who had a semiofficial status, obtained selected letters
from a subagent employed by the Mexican postal system.

2. Liaison Coverage:

Liaison coverage was unreliable and insecure as characterized by
the nature of the Mexican services at that time. The Mexican Direction
of Federal Security (DFS), with which we conducted liaison, was a hip-
pocket group run out of the Mexican Ministry of Government. This Ministry
was principally occupied with political investigations and control of
foreigners. Their agents were init Lele, and corrupt. A Station
officer trained a number of them in name tracing and travel control. In
1958, at the instigation of a Mexican official, a joint telephone tap

operation came into existence. The operation, which became known as



LIENVOY, was run by a Mexican officer. The listening post had 30 lines
connected at one time. The transcription room was staffed by Mexican
Army officers. In 1961, because of mismanagement by the Mexican prin-
cipals, the Station chief, himself, became the project case officer. A
Station officer assisted him in the daily supervision of the listening
post, and in picking up the transcripts and the tapes. There was also
an American technician inside the listening post.
3. Oswald Coverage:

In mid-1962, the Mexican officer in charge of LIENVoY (the
joint tap operation) asked the American officer at the LIENVOY listening
post for the telephone numbers of the Soviet, Cuban and Satellite Em-
bassies in anticipation of possible coverage. The Station immediately
disconnected all of the unilateral telephone taps on these Embassies so
that they would not be discovered when the Mexicans hooked up their
taps. The Mexicans soon thereafter connected five Cuban lines, five
Soviet lines, three Czech lines, two Polish lines, and one Yugoslav
line. At the listening post, a live monitor made short summaries of
conversations of interest which were then included in a daily resume
for the Chief of Station. Later, when a reel was completely recorded,
full transcripts were typed and passed to the Station; Toner there

was usually a time lag of a day or two. Reels which contained Russian



SECRET/SENSITIVE

or a language other than Spanish or English were taken to another location
for translation and typing. Mr. Boris Tarasoff did the Russian transla-
tions but because of the volume ‘of Russian conversations, the translations
usually ran about a week behind the date of the conversation.

As soon as the Station learned that an American identifying him-

self as Lee Oswald phoned the Soviet Embassy, Miss Ann Goodpasture of the

: Station started screening all Photographs. However, here again, there

was. a backlog because the photographs were picked up three times a week
but those picked up were usually for dates a few days before since the
technician who was processing the film, did so ona night-time basis.
Further, photographs were not made initially until a complete rol] of
film was used. Later this was changed and the operator cleared the camera
at the end of each day regardless of amount of. unused. film remaining.
The instructions were to cover the entire work day (office hours) and to
photograph all Soviets, their families, all foreigners, and cars with
foreign. license plates. Human error did occur but generally the agents
were conscientious. The Cuban Embassy coverage had more sophisticated
equipment using a pulse camera which frequently developed mechanical dif-
ficulties.

; “Oswald came to the attention of. the listening post: operators

froma tap of the Soviet line, It was picked up and taken to Mr. Boris

~ SECRET SENSITIVE


Tarasoff for translation because the caller was trying to speak in Russian.
There was some delay because Station personnel waited to compare the
photographs with the typed transcript. All. transcripts were made in.
either Spanish or English since the Chief of Station could read only

these two languages and because he personally screened the transcripts

for operational leads.

Ve

eras

SECRET /SENSI

