04-10070-10009] “- a

ge

ICROEWMED

aS i

rR 3 1968 |
co. sen, | @
9 March 1968 © &-thinexuce
ers
To 1 COS/Mexics Cit fe |
y Pre. report on PRED activities ¥
FROM : Douglas J. FREAPANE. =

Aly ol pn aw
SUBJECT: Status Report, Project (LIOGLE/LIMIN|)

‘ 1 February thrv! 29 February 1968
24

over:.ng Period
‘ 7

Sooty
I. ACTIONS TAKEN: (1) LIMIX-1
[

~

fy

fjopies a
fo this report. This(issue} contain
coverage of the national convention of thé PRI;
nae)\3 which is bgsed on previous speeches by the new
AE RTE ALE ongGPMARTINEZ Dominguez; a series: of int
litical and intellectual figures regarding MARTI
page-4;-an_artikle boosting) the future leader of
ot workers union, /| Edgar®ROPLEDO Santiago, on
for the Olympics iti

yevew Preside
the new PRI "oficial mayor", Fluvio VISTA Altami

MIX-L)provided the Station with information fro
Sources on the reasons for the dismissal of/Lic,
Ochoa from his post in the Presidency and dn

Npects of MARTINEZ Domfnguez in the PRI. ,(&

s Eee as an insert with the Attachment A newspaper.
=1

re included as
s good photographic
an article|on page
President) of the
erviews with po-
NEZ Domfnguez on
the federa

a

page 13;and,a “plug”
i _ _ evand
PH ot
: rerren— i

nt of the PRI and

Fano, and phich

very reli
Francisco!

expect
vob. o\_MIX-1 continued a close relationshi withf
1,0 ho is supposed to be a good .Erfen "Ene Hew Pres t
. (3) The representative of hb, Muinicinal Gavernmeht

sgvided

of group with a SAISON IT 8
by the Municipality. (@) The roup continued,
now with official support, to organize athlécr ts, show motion

pictures provided by QKFLOWAGE and the West German embassy|a

sy trying t

as
ei

P
o\ Gaus e i
Ochoa from the Presidency?6(GALINDO) had given bn-off cial
on

p with the TV Stati

support in his re
time can be recovered;
sf

is believed tha
is also investi,
commercial TV channe.

Sl ts cary

ne
activities related to organization of PRI youth activities|in this
zon City (Atzeapozalco). (7) The (LIMIX headed
b suffered a "temporary loss" of its TV programs and
i find 2

id

Wana gem 2
however 6
i

20-126 - 28 [2

7 MMA-3 13/


a2

7 a V po
the, Private Secretary of et) “4
f

4th
—_—e fo} Civ i dl
f£ the which | 97.
Lad. Nv

includéd an interview witi'the new Presiden’
Nacional de Estudiantes Técnicbs (FNET) / José!
6, several articles provided by QKFLOWAGE and#the West German
embassy as well as other material of interest/toofPN students,
The CEBREROS interview was an."exclusive". ) @IMIX-Dwas able
to obtain one of the 2,000 "tickets" available for the national
convention of the PRI, and attended both day's meetings. (LL)

ol LIMIX~1) provid the Station with a report on the FNET Congress

nd his As a result, a close friend! of
was named 5B
was named_one of tH

ot (LIMIX-2

7 ang (LIMIX
o® 1 resident. L ) (LIM X-L)continued contact
With a variety of political personalities with the objective of

being able to penetrate the(mew PRI headquarters. \z
wi 4

24
Il. ACTIONS PENDING: The major pending action is th
endships within thel
atron s solidified to séte degree. Fpr ex-
ample/L: 3its in a sort of "limbo" at this date,

r confirmed in a job, However, if would
appear IIMIxeeohanism has at least five channels] into
the which are being developed

e'
for pes ‘opriate utilization. —A-senarate report will be prepared
on these channels into th ther channels exist to
provide contacts within thd for Mexico
City, but nothing can be done pnetT current offfeers are retired

and the new men appointed,

at the

III, INDICATIONS OF EFFECTIVENESS: As reported in paragraph I,
#3, 5, 10 and Il.

IV, - ADMINISTRATIVE NOTES: Ncthing new to report.

ve SECURITY SITUATION: No security problems were encountered.

~
VI. AGENT MEETINGS: Meetings between FREAPANE and Cintel were
held on a weekly basis in a restaurant. °

VII, REMARKS: While
operations of th
contact with the
and even increas
thus providing WOFIRM with a continuil
‘yrcerrxgence gathering and political action'in this field,

Prepared on 9 March 1968 BY? Sho. Creal
: DOUGLAS J. FREAPANE

erations are no longer the
REAPANE continues to encourag
the

