rooree-0art] .

+ MEMORANDUM FOR: Director of Central Intelligence
THROUGH : Deputy Director for Support

SUBJECT : Pros and Cons of the Robert Maheu Case

\,. This memorandum is for your information only and is
forwarded with the thought that it may proves useful to you in your
consideration of the difficulties now facing us in the Robert
Maheu Case.

2, Lhave spent considerable time in an effort to evaluate
the various alternatives open to us in this case. Tome, itis not -
really a question of whether to brief or not to brief but rather to
examine the consequences arising from either action. In an ef-
fort to delineate all possible actions which could result from
either position you may take on this case, I have prepared the
attached list of "pros and cons", It is completely objective and
Ihave scraped the bottom of the barrel to list all possible con-
sequences. It is forwarded with the thought that you might find
it usefui.

‘irector of Security

Attachment
List of Pros and Cons
on Robert Maheu Case

Distribution:
Crig. - DCI
1 - DDS i:
1 - General Counsel

EVES GLY 7

QEp
wh

vr

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce


PROS AND CONS OF THE ROBERT MAHEU CASE

1, Senator Long has been told by Morris Shenker, his personal attorney, that Robert Maheu
was involved in certain assignments for this Agency. He is specifically aware of our interest in
the Onassis-Niarchusa Case, ag well ag our use of Giancana (not the mission), Senator Long allegedly
agreed to withhold the subpoena of Maheu if the Agency simply confirms Maheu's statement that he
has been utilized in the past on sensitive assignments for CIA. Senator Long reportedly does not
desire to know any of the particulars and reportedly agrees not to get the Agency involved through
other witnesses that may be called.

2. Ifthe Agency accepts this proposal, the following possibilities exist:

‘a. If the Senator honors the agreement, the following Pros and Cons.exist:

PROS : CONS
The Agency will not become involved and ~ : The Senator could withhold the use of
no publicity will ensue. This undoubtedly . this information at this time, but could
would also have a number of advantages "utilize the information later if he desired
for Maheu personally, since he would not to do so. .

be involved.

- He could withhold use of the information
at this time, but have his Committee
Staff dig into the matter more deeply to
develop the full story i in the case for use at
a later date, .

: a oy He could advise other individuals on the
° : . . , Hill that he had withheld the subpoena

, \ of Maheu due to the Agency's involvement
in the two cases,

i

KERo
copy

"XEROY
cory


14-0000

b. Ifthe Senator does not honor the agreement, the following Pros and Cons exist:

PROS

The Agency would be in a position of
having attempted to cooperate with the
Senate Committee by informing them of
our interest in the matter.

We would be more sure of having the
fullest support of Maheu, Morgan and
Shenker since we have attempted to
solve the problem and our attempts —
have failed through no fault of our own,

~ re
ee

. Maheu willbe subpoenaed and upon inquiry

:y-

_CONS _

into the Onassis and Giancana affairs, will
refer the Committee to the Agency. This
will publicly surface our connection, (The
Onassis case does not present too much :
of a problem since this association has been |
a matter of court record, the Agency was '
not involved in wire tapping, and senior
officials of the Government were well aware
of the operation. )

Even though Maheu refers the Committee
to the Agency in this matter, the Giancana
situation could be most embarrassing,
First of all, even though Maheu would not
be involved in the questioning, the Committee §
might call Giancana to testify. The attendant "
publicity would possibly identify Maheu as

an Agency intermediary to other members of
the Giancana family,

[kero
cory

If Maheu's association with the Agency is .2
publicly identified. causd

The Senator could also leak it to the Press.

o volunteer
information on the Djakarta incidouts,



400000

c. If the Agency does not accept Senator Long's. proposal, the following Pros and Cons exist:

PROS

We have made no admissions and have
furnished no validation to the Committee
concerning our association with Maheu.

We have not admitted to the Committee
our involvement in the Onassis or Giancana
affairs. We are in a position to simply

‘deny any involvement in wire tapping in

the Maheu case, which after all, is the
purpose of the hearings of the Long
Committee.

CONS

_ We risk arousing the ire of Maheu,

Morgan, and Shenker because of our lack
of cooperation.

Since the Senator has reportedly been
informed of our involvement with Maheu |
and we have not acknowledged it, he may
then feel free to dig into the matter
completely since we have not furnished
him with the information,

‘Giancana may be called to testify and we
could not control Giancana.

—s ltd.

could

“gore into the picture as a result of a

‘television publicity involving Maheu.

Our involvement in the Giancana situation
would become known to other members of
the Giancana family.
