# 104-10172-10303

## Page 1

104-10172-10303

DISPATCH

Chin, NS

CoS

10

FROM

oAft

OFHA -3970

(2876-2

RETURN TO CLA

Background Use Only

Do Nat Reproduce

2 July 1959

a13

i mi

NO ADENIAR, PIDU:ALS

ENDED: NO CAR BE JUDGED

D' QUALIRIED MO DISA CALY

Chier of Station,

Station/ Operati

Jalo Mulato 14t

Nano Trade.

1.

Rosts/VASAt, Chief of the Central Criainal Polloc, otated that on 28 Ma

it 109, des, colla serdat Consul in Halotail had arkalite cer inormation

on Dubjeot, born 26 March 1926 in Ingermanland, Bubjest entered Sweden 1n

1947, and was the bearer of Svenakt fränlingapnas No. 7275/47. Acoording

to Golub, Jubjoot had disappoured Irom the Birgitte Hosuital In Vadsten,

Sweden on 20 May 1950.

Vasa stated that Golub seemed to be In a moatt to got Inforsation on

subject, but did not reveal ala reason for wanting 1t,

Vasa conjectured

bat/Subfoot may be elther ruspouted by the Sonlota of being "a HAT

dispatchod ayra" er "a Soret rocrulted a mo deader so sire un the

Yess addel that Subject night possibly be in the Soviet linion

DOw, and having bena apprelendod, the Soviets vant to deterine whether he

was. sent by the West, or voluntartly returned to the Motherland.

Vasa axpeota no additional Information on Subjeat fron us, but it would be

Interesting to know whether Headquarters or Stookholm files contain any

Information on Subjeot:

Vasa statod thatía. 1.

Golub là eatrencha autive la aultivallar Pinnieh

Vasa clained that dolab had lunch with some finn "every day".

Oliver P. Mallmark

Distribution:

2

2

ME

pand'Use Only

• 15%

Chi:

EVely 61

Cs CoPl

81BR

it serge?

---

