# 104-10107-10183

## Page 1

104-10107-10183|

S0-0216÷-58

Extrach

Sxz25 02 Initial Missiona

I- the period from 20 June to 10 July 1956 the Soviet Bloc zir defenso

syster as subjected to eight penetrations

of an unprecedented nature, sever

o32a1-rg mithin a period of only eight days. It must be renergered that

Frovides the only basis of juaging the periomance oi the Soriet

Inis is important because it is clearl

However, some tentative conclusions may be drawn fro

these initial flights and these are indicated as follows:

In spite of the fact that these missions care as a surprise,

10n0 01 then went undetroted.

one cores extends ad this de clear evidease thet taeir

- 23 -

TOP SECRET - EIDER - CHESS

---

## Page 2

SC-02164-58

2. By 5 July 1956, the fourth flizht, the USSR was aware

of tce purpose of the missions and were taking couater action.

oe positive action was the standow of civil flights while the

mission aircraft was over the USSR, and a second action vich is

believed related is the moving of MIG-19 aircraît into Best

termany and Poland on 7 July 1956. Also MIG-19's were moved

into lungary at about this time.

3. Ine performance of the Soviet systen on the 5 July mission,

2014, was indeed curious. While the action evident fran!

is not clear an explanation which appears to lit the known facts

is offered as follows: As a, result of the previous missions, the

Soriats has cocluded the essential facts concerning the missions

that they flew abovel

the track appeared on a northeaster haadium

i. By 9 July 1956, in addition to the evident recogrition o

ne freat height of the nission flights, tracking was better an

is general the performance of the warning system was mich improved.

5. The next day. 10 MulT 105&F

б.

The first cight missions proved that the air derense warmino

sisten is deploved in danto

TOP SECRET - EIDER-CHESS

---

## Page 3

14-00000

SC-02164-58

7. Confusion and track loss saamed to ho rolatedt

8. Ire quastion of radars for haiant findina l

-25-

TOP SECRET - EIDER- CHESS

---

