# 104-10051-10028

## Page 1

1104-10051-100287

EXES ONLY

SECRET

MEXORANDU FOR: Chief, WHD for Cuba

SUBJECT

: Espinosa Allegations

1. Sensitivity: Regardles of accuracy, they

present a problam becausa of their baving been

prosented to otber government agancies;

B.

in view of batters

are delicate and could have unfavorabla repercussions

1f repeated to newsnen by the complainant or his

associates (those independent, previous threats vere

aflect the reputations and the security of our

personnel atl

2.

Action:

In view of the foregoing, the allegations

should be put in proper perspective - l.e, not

ignored bocause of the potential embarrassment but

considered is the light of what we already kaow

(Almost all of then are repetitions of previous

charses and reports, known well to

Headquarters officars

concerned with the Allash group, whose members

reliability, reputations and good faith are question

Two oi the charges - about Earle and

and about ALWHIP-1 and CARRILLO - are new.);

B.

should be treated so as to protect us arainst any

charge of laxity and so aa to establish the facts but,

at the same time, treated so 23 to avoidatributing

to then nore importance than they deserve;

C.

should be kept in mind as examples of other

charges which nay

betandled about and raported by the

ALASE STOWD to other goveranental agencies or to

other goverazents or to news media (In tha last

connection recall the ipplied

threat or publisning

ODYOKE responsibility, as reported preylously by

3716, IN 38634-);

SECRET

0003666

---

## Page 2

14-00000

on 2 ma

он по.-

should be exanined togethar with all the other

a1a1la0la reports

so that we may

(1) Clartly our own objectives and wishes with

respect to all the ALASH group

this

includes

ANHIP);

{3) sort out which people, if any, are worth our

time in the future;

(3) take appropriata nassures, including inter-

rogation and polygraphing, to clarify dousts and

then, when necessary, terminata those woo are

working for us but are not worthrile;

(4) tighten up our own operational and secarity

procedures in connection with the AXLAsH frog.

Preliminary Analysis: As pointed out in a preliminary

in March 1965 when I was

prepazing for travel to

analysia of the MilAst compless connection with the QuNopS-1

• There is no convincing evidence that the group is

vorking either for or against the regise of Fidel CastrO.

on their contacts with us and their discussions anong

themselvas are at variance.

In 1962 fidel CAstRO, zeportedly

knowing that they were plottlag against him, talbod to AMLASa-1

and seven members of his group to enlist their support against

Albal ESCSIANTE Dellunde and the communists in Cuba.

Possibly

they ars playing both ends against the middle.

they certainly

have been and are in contact with the two ends."

The following

convents are keyed to matters raised by ESPINOSA:

A. The AMLASH conspiracy - As detailed by

3716

(11 28634)

02 6 ApFil 1965, AUSPORT-I reporting on a reeting

of the AMLiSh group, including AMiHIa-1 mentioned the following

significant polnts:

(1) KUBARK was criticized for "fooling around tor

years" without helping and for jeopardizing the operation;

(2) the group was to be prepared to denonce

ODYORE as resporsible if the operation fails and believed

the resulting scandal would cake tha Bay of Pigs seem insigui-

Ilcant; and

ADILASH-3 was in toch with Cuban Intelligence

as established by coded messages which he exhibited.

As reported byl

11532 (IN 32939) on 4 June 1965, based on

neetings with ESPINOSA,

the problem seen by

is that

9S DRU

1. GRET

• 0003667

---

## Page 3

14-00000

SEX ONLY

SICKET

"the AMLASH circle is wide and each ney friend

of whom wa learn

seens to have knowledge of the plan."

'problem is & nore serious and basic one.

indicated in

paragraph 3 of the present menorandum, fidul Casto bingeli

reportedly knew as far back as 1962 that the group vas plotting

agalnst hin and, knowing it, enlisted its support.

cannot rule out

the possibility of proyocation.

obviously,

is a dangerous game, not merely

Assassination,

to the plotters in

a physical sense,

but to a sponsoring government which may

suffer severe political repercussions

at home and abroad if 145

involvenent is made known.

In the instant case, the risks of

exposure of the ODYOKS hand would aypear high, whether there is

a provocation or not.

Considering the individuals who are

involved diroctly, their contacts with KUBdar officers, and theis

reported plan to espose ODYOKE, versisting in the plas could

be highly embarrassing to KubaRk.

(This is even nore the case

20w tha: ESPINOSA has talked to ODiNVY and ODURGa,

fortunately the tenor of his complaint was that kubaRk bad nos

given adequata support to the plas.)

3. The contacts atl

Jand the matters affecting

"recruitment" of

subject of an exchange of cables between!

| and Headgarters

and o1 discussions at Headquarters between 1H/C and XE (Sce

J-1071 (IN 66557) and DIR-10955).

The annoying thing in

this connection now is that ESPINOSA bas talkeù about it to

ODENVY and ODURGE and the danger that,

11 he is indiscreet,

his story avout this (and the other matters) could reach

curious newspaperman.

(is this connectlon, it appears that the

questionable decision to put

in touch with the AlLASH

soup was nade without the kaowledge of STCCISICOD.J ESPINOSA

dld not report any criticism of the KuSARkers

is evident that the AMLASH group knows more about them than

What is ney and of concern from

ESPINOSA about

is his story of AMWHIP 1 2n& JNSNAFU-19

dealings.

The questions raised about MVHlP.i ars of sutual

concern also to Headquarters waich has been running him and

which he has visited often.

(De the occasion of 2y

previous tripl

Jon the QUIOPS-1 case, GRONERY had voiced

his doubts about the whola group and specifically about AiaIs-1

and his connection with UNS AIU-13.)

At issue are two basic

points, the knowledge on the part of UNStArU 19 aboat Rusark's

connection with AJMAID-l and the charge that AMrare-l has been

defrauding

KUBARK in the jewelry transaction.

in mind 1s

tue lack that ODENVY bas 1a

Also to de lopt

sell night have been intorned of the allegations and which

have been agised for comments - although ODENVY policy alvays

has been to stay away from any investigation of cüber government

agencies

unless specifically directed by the Attorney General

to investigate.

BIES CALY

0003668

---

## Page 4

14-00000

Criticism

of the

Criticisn of

ALASH soup is not naw.

iULASH-2

-3 were

эn4 wanted ditect contact,

but the

The Station has

been involved indirectly

because

of regorting

by its

S01.C2"

zbout and involverent of Station targets

with boch thn AYLASA

nd ANWORLD operatlous (both handlad fron Headquarters)

See 72982 (IN 72256) and

-2993 (IN

73094) (boch RYBAT). -~

Meetings anong GUSPORT, GUSWIIT-J, AlNA1P-1 and AlLiSH figures

coduced conflicting reports waich previously were discussed at

and at beadquarters.

INSOfar 2S GROVERY linsell is

concerned, 1c wust be kept In nind that ho is a natural tarzal

on whon the AlLASH group would be inclined to locus its con

pla12t3-

With regard to the specilic complaint about

GROWIRY bas identified her as QUSJIJT-7. and has reported that

no staller fron the Station ever had contact with her.

FuriDer Lavolvement of ESPINOSA: On 10 June ODENVI

notified KUBARK at New York that AMLiSH-2 had telephoned

ISPINOSA to ask wether he had succeeded in contacting

proper people" - 1.8., responsibla KUBARK representativos - and

to reguest Botice of

the resulting arrangements.

A.WHIP-1: Our plan calls for meeting him next week

to obtain PRo Information and to dotain clarification of the

roles played by those involved with his in the AllACE opezation.

His dealings with UNSNAXD-19 a130 will be covered. Following

this, an LCILUTTER examination ia planned.

This may help to

deternine whether no has been truthful in his reporting.

Harold 2. Swenson

WH/C/SP

SYES ONLY

SEBREY

0003669

---

