“(ro4-10007-40087

, : ‘ "RETURN TO CIA .
: Background Use Only
d Do Not Reproduce
Wa ME eae ‘SPATCH KO, HPS-h=2436___
TO = Chief, «HD OG ery BATE -4 Deceadar 1956 _.
mom Chief of Station,an Josb.) DFO: EabufqcAoTteMe?
GRIAL Operational gan 22 1383
suprect x Ao. 28
SPECIIC amon Toass GUIN Dias ce. mie

Subject, a Cuban exile, is currently residing in San José and has applied to the
US Consulate for an imaigrant visa to the 0.5. —

The following data were extracted fros his visa application papers ant sccospanying
documents:

Ousan passport Ko. 24336 issued in Habana on 13 Hovenber 1552, Visas and
travel reconsed in his passport are:

U.S. noneinmigraat visa No. 14035 issued ta Habana on 13 Novexsee 1452.
Entered U.E. throug’ Key Vest, Florida tetes ~ on 1§ Nowenhar 1562 avd

1.

2.

dL June 1956.
naxa No, 142305 isvied 19 -epteaber 1754 in

gan Jo :
fn Habana on 2 April 1536.
ind on 12 January 1755, 20 Harch 1355, and

0. 133! issued

Iuban exit -ersits issued in
29 Hay 1756.

Cuban reentry peralt issied in Kahana ov. 16 April 19546.

b. GUILE matriculuted a4 the University of Habana School of Suga and rgricultural
ing the 1555-56 acaieate x1 2
ron 1y56.

elerrance iio. H-277634 wed issued .n Can Sisé on



: ET ote HRSHA=2436
f. An affadavit of support was provided fron QUIN’s uncle hy marriage, Juan SOTO,
164 Ellery Street, Brooklyn, Kew York, dated 9 October 1956. subject is
planning on an indefinite period of residence in the U.S., where he will work

and study. ‘
&- Personal data: Fofn in Rabane 22 September 1933, the son of Ramon/¥iIk Here .

nahdes and Asalix]OIAZ Son-alet, residing st Concordia 715, altos / Habana;

both Cuban cit Ik is sigle, speaks only Spanieh. He was arrested in

atte Habana on -& dignist 1955 (presumably for revolutionary activities). San José
address is Avenida 6, Ko, 643 Oeste, Apartado 201y; no telephone (relatives

house). Deseription: 5° 10", white, brow eyes and hair.
b. & copy of Subject ‘s visa pictare is attached.

3. The San/Jone Apartado ory lists Apartado 3019 as belonging to Antonie
Asillo (possibly MosTES). Station files contain no reference to either
pane.

Lbs C Merrbares
Philip C. Kentland
Attachaent:
: each
L copy of photo for/ashington and Habana
Distributions :
3 + Washington w Lew
1 ~ Habana, wy /ene
PCK/pjt
27 Noveaber. 1956

2CRET a

eh CES
