# 104-10059-10345

## Page 1

104-10059-10345

UNClASSIFIED

INTERNAL

• *

USE ONLY

• ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

CONFIDENTIAL

SECRET

SUBJECT: (Optional)

FROM:

EXTENSION

NO.

DATE

C/DO/IMS/OG

TO: (Officer designation, room number,

building)

and

1D4122

C/IMS

1D4124

DATE

RECEIVED

10t8%

INITLAL

COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from who

o whom. Drum a line across column efter each comment.

FORWARDE:

10 1u%

200

3.

4.

5.

6.

7.

8.

PCS/LOC 2D0109

TUBE: DXE GREEN

ATTN: N: SHEPANEK

h

10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

FORM

3-62

60 USE PREVIOUS

EDITIONS

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 2

14-00000

300457

•ELE A0 FORNGE MARONG

10,

71978

| 22 AN °78

MEMORANDUM FOR:

Donald P. Gregg

PCS/ LOC

ATTENTION:

FROM:

SUBJECT:

REFERENCE:

Norbert A. Shepanek

Marvin L. Smith

Chief, Operations Group

House Select Committee on Assassinations

(HSCA) Request

• HSCA Letter (OLC 78-2099) dated 23 May 1978

A. (S) An intensive search of the files and indices

• of this Directorate has revealed the following information

on the individuals listed in reference. Since birthdates

were not provided for all of the individuals, the information

surfaced may or may not pertain to them.

1. Thomas Nathaniel Mosley

DTR-00397 (copy attached)

2.

Homer Samuel Valdivia-Echevarria

201-0767409 (copy attached)

3.

Francisco Blanco

201-0332676 (record copy attached)

4.

George Marti

No information

5. Gonzalez Oselia

We are unable to identify this individual

anc the

because of insufficient biographic informatior

and the (phonetic) given name.

4225

22 IMPDET CL BY 22431

WARNING NOTCE

SENSITIVE INTELUGENCE SOURCES

AND MET 70. EVOIVED

SECHET

NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN NATIONALS

---

## Page 3

14-00000

STUREI

NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN NATIONALS

6.

7.

8.

James Traupela

No information

William Newton

There are twelve records on one William Newton

whom we cannot positively identify without

additional biographic information.

Jose Cardosa

There are six records on one Jose Cardosa

(or Cardozo or Cardoza). We cannot positively

identify these individuals as being pertinent

to the request without additional biographic

9. Martin Morua

201-0320262 (copy attached)

B. (S) CI Staff responded directly to your Office

on 27 June 1978 with information concerning Homero

Echevarria Valdwia,

Juan Francisco Blanco Fernandez,

Jorge Luis Marti, William J. Newton, and Martin Morua

Arechea.

C. (S) The files of the Central Cover Staff contain

twenty documents on one William B. Newton. Jr.. born

14 March 1916.

These

documents are available for review in CCS.

D.

(U) This Office was unable to provide the

photographs

requested in paragraph two of reference because

no biographic data was supplied on the individuals.

E.

(U) It has been further determined that the

individuals mentioned in reference have not been the subject

of an FOIA or PA request.

F. (U) All third agency documents have been enveloped

and identified.

672000

NOT DESSER TREET 2203

---

## Page 4

14-00000

NOX RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN NATIONALS

G. (U) The processing of this case was closely

coordinated with Norbert Shepanek and this memorandum was

reviewed in draft by him on 5 July 1978

Attachments:

As

stated above

•"SCARLE TO FOREIGN MATURNS

---

