104-10186-10215)

Abe

upd

CLNTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

Paiied States within the meaning af wer Meweage Came Tee
1A UBC Cee 1 and TPL the Uenemindnn of fereation of Which Ih ADF manner Lo 60 Uocuihoriend puEm tm poneietted Op: eae

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

Thus materal coetains tefermation afertine Ue Manions! Defense of te

CS CI-FiG/EOESS-ES

countafuba REPORT NO.
suuect Francisco LNU (alias "Tino") pare piste «= 4 Fetruary 196%
: NO. paces ot
REFERENCES -«CS- 311 /G0RIS-EE
‘ (page 7)
are 8 July 1956
1964
Wachington, D. C. .
pate aca. January 1965 FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS 15 UNEVALUATEO INFORMATION, SOURCE ORADINOS ARE DENNITIVE APPRAIIAL OF COsatult Gf IORI

sourceA former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban IntelBigemse
Service until April 1964,

Leacquarters Comments Ate

The following report 1s one of a series containing persoaalrty
Anformation provided by the source and includes supplemental
information from the records of this Agency.

It ig requested that the addressees take no action on iny 12
the individuals mentioned in the personality reports witacut

first checking with this Agency.

1, Francisco LNU, alias "Tino," 4s employed as a trafaee
with the Direccion General de Inteligencia (General Dizectarate
of Intelligence - DGI). He resides with another Cubas tatelizgenee
service officer at 30th Street, No. 307, Habana, Cuba; te lephom:

number. 3-3161.
2. Francisco is a Cuban citizen and was born about IStt.

He is five feet eight inches tall, weighs about 145 poids,
has a thin build; a dark complexion; and short, curly, dark of, iN
brown hair! Rs
Headquarters Comment on CO) aes
e sor aed
1. The records of this Agency reveal no identifiable 2a
information on Francisco LNU, alias "Tino." ge
3
4
SECRET pupsu avian}
NO FOREIGN DISSEM —— 2
SS
STATE Tova Pater Taw Vane Tosa, 7 KX Loe Fei?
REP__CINCLANT CINCSO # TENS
‘Note: Feld divnbviton indxated by “8 : a

mU/SALCI,|5.
mifwave—lab 1
forsee W/SA 8 (1), WE 1 (2), CI 4, RIDL

