1008-1299]
ae ar
; (
o . SN (
y (
Say 1975
SJ
SUBJECT : Review of Agency Holdings RegehtOe Photograph of
Unidentified Individui Bt farren Commission
Report < S

SO)
: & S&S iS NO)
REFERENCE: Memorandum from Davas Ki, m to E. Henry Knoche,
dated 15 April Eee

1. In accordance with reference request, we have examined
and summarized the record conéerning a cropped photograph that was
considered by the Warren Commission in the course of its investi-

| gation. The photograph (together with others of the same
individual) originated from an intelligence operation conducted
Et
in October 1963 by the CIAfand the Mexican security authorities.|
: et Eee ;

2. Under the extraordinary press of effort to develop infor-
mation on the assassin and the assassination, copies of the photo-
graph were made available by CIA's Mexico Station Chief on the
afternoon of 22 November to the local FBI representative. Later
that day, assertedly on the decision of the Ambassador, copies
were conveyed by an FBI representative on a special U. S. Naval
Attache flight to the Dallas office of the FBI for possible use
‘in the ongoing invéstigation. One pho aph, cropped by the

Ossie ‘Lee Harvey OSWALD's

os er 1963 by an FBI
Y)

AS ,

agent. OHS
2 LO SK
3. The Warren Commigayvon’ t describes the sequence of

events that ultimately result Yn Mrs. Marguerite OSWALD's

FBI, was shown to Mrs. Marguerite

mother) in Dallas on the evening

allegation that she had been shown a cropped photo of Jack RUBY

the day before he murdered her son. A further complication

Oo. SECRET

PAGE

COPY

136 4-319



14-00000 : fe (

ro

compounding this erroneous conclusion Vine that, when

sane | ST in her appearance
before the Conmission, it hefdgen by the FBI in Washing-
ton in a slightly different Nann WS ;

4. Although in no way related to Lee Harvey OSWALD or His
stay in Nexico City from the morning of .27 September 1963 to the
morning of 2 October 1963, at léast one set of photographs of the
unidentified man originated during OSWALD's stay there, It is
important, therefore, to an understanding of the acquisition and
handling of the photographs by the Mexico Station to review what.
the Station ascertained and did with the information it developed
about OSWALD in Mexico City, together with Headquarters action on
that information. :

5, From all credible evidence known to this time (none,

incidentally, added since the exhaustive work of the Warren Com-

mission), Lee Harvey OSWALD spent fourc(4) full days and two: (2)
COW

partial days | about 116 hours i; ~ in'Mexico City from about
EN
10:00 a.m. 27 September 1963 <

Sy t S a.m. 2 October 1963.

His place of residence wasp S#81 yw ycial traveler hotel, not

« frequented by “gringos*\ th <’commercio -- where he was
registered under alias. ExhSgsvive and detailed interviews and
4nterrogation by the Mexican authorities and the FBI after the
assassination established that, in the recollection of all hotel
personnel, he left and returned late each day of his stay.

6. Allowing for the fact of late arrival and early departure,

and assuming that he slept one-third of the time of his stay

(38 or 39 hours), there remain some 78 hours of activity to be

SECRET =

319

racs 137 of
COPY NO.



14-00000:

a

accounted for. Overall, CIA's ie can account only for
SS)
very brief periods during 28, nd 1 October. All

was technical. The

0 WALD was in no sense "under

coverage by CIA during the eS

Station had no live’ sour,

7. It should be nod aw
investigation." None of the facts of his defection and stay in
the USSR and return to the U. S., 1959 -- 1962, were known to the
Mexico. Station or in its files before 10 October 1963. On that
date, the bare bones of his biography were forwarded by. Head-
quarters in response to a Station cabled report of 8 October
which had forwarded, on a routine basis, what appeared to be a
contact by an American for a visa to Cuba in transit to the USSR.
This was indicated and deduced from technically acquired infor-
mation on 1 October, which was the first and only occasion on that
visit in which OSWALD was recorded as identifying himself =
(partially) by true name.

8. At no time during his aN Wa City did the cIA

oe

acquire a photo of OSWALD. A <i Ss" of all coverage ---
<

technical as well.as. photographi ensscee by the Station
aS .

on 22 and 23 November 1963

IS

materials back to August 49,

A

‘ssassination, including
is confirmed that there was no
CIA photo coverage of OSWALD t any time during his Mexico trip

or stay in Mexico City. Moreover, although it had made a cabled
request: on 15 October;’ the Mexico Station had no photo of OSWALD
in its records, nor did it receive one from Headquarters -- which

did not have one either -- before 22 November 1963.

138 319
PACE of.
copy No.



14-00000 é é

AS

9, It must be stressed that wW& ‘chnical information the
SS . 7

Shes pcessea in "real

}

IE

a lume of the infor-

Station had was not (and normal]

time.” The means of acquisitGer:
Ss

mation preclude anything G4 the
Ss

Pw

yeporting of items judged
to be of more than ordinary in QVr and, therefore, noted in
summary logs. Full texts of selected items require consultation
of the tape and either a full transcription or full translation
or both. Photo coverage tends to become available in quantity
lots which requires scanning and selection on a vapid and
accelerated basis in four or five day “peaks.” One of the
“triggers” “that normally operates to focus and accelerate more
speedy review and reporting of this kind of raw intelligence is
the mention of a name. This was precisely what occurred in the
second of two conversations on 1.October, during which the
speaker said he was "Lee OSWALD." It was this information
reported by the Station to Headquarters in its first indication
on OSWALD on 8 October 1963.

10. The Mexico Station did wage in its 8 October

report on Lee OSWALD based on the Ager information: it

coupled the data with descrighivs on it had acquired
Je source pha
from a sensitive source <X~eppho of a male individual,

apparently an American, who SQQerved entering an Embassy
on 1 October. The Station reported this detail on the 8th as

a matter of coincident fact. The Station did not assert or
suggest that the data led to any deduction that the photo was in

fact OSWALD or, indeed, was in any way related to OSWALD.

SECRET

pron 23% ¢ 34

COPY NO.

wo



14-00000

=

_ Each of these items, including the text of the raw intercepts,

( | :
‘
11. One additional element of bac Qa must be
SS
stipulated now as the final precondés’ to understanding the

ENS

relevance (or irrelevance) of thé\photo, le unknown

individual placed in the ch: on 23 November in
Dallas by the FBI agent: Ce otality of CIA Mexico"s

coverage of OSWALD" s eaeetees as the afternoon of the 23rd

when all available coverage had been chécked? sa
12. The totality of Mexico Station coverage on or reasonably

inferable to be OSWALD consisted of five (5) voice intercepts.

were read by, discussed with, and examined by Warren Commission
staffers, in Headquarters aiid at the Mexico Station during a stay
from 8-13 April 1964. All were made available promptly to

the FBI.

13. At about mid-day on 1 October, the camera registered
the eritry into an Embassy of a white-shirted individual. In the I
opinion of the Station, among all the persons photographed that
day, he appeared to be the only non AS and possibly American H
gs

who entered. On the chance thata Sy be an association ;
SS m the voice inter-

rom the photograph, the “4

between the identification aa an <
SRS)

Gee
age

to Headquarters on 8 October.

cept and the descriptiv

Station reported the two S separate facts in its cable
14, The Station's action was not unusual and really amounted
to an analytic "quantum leap," in terms of the primitive status

of the OSWALD identification. Many examples of a similar kind of

thing can be found in the day-to-day record of Station-Headquarters |
: 5 2}

440, 319
PAGE _ “= of
je] gil. [1 ae an


14-00000 ¢ XK é .

“415. On 22 November 1963 the Mexico Station cabled Head-

quarters at 22292 time after learning of Qyrrest of Lee H.

OSWALD, age 24, possibly in connectigg i the assassination,

ce De- ss October and

Headquarters' reply of 10 ace O'D Ra requested by:
: “priority pouch a Rete 9, oO so that Station

can check all recent SS for OSWALD. Forward-

and referenced its carlier message:

ing soonest copies of only visitor on 1 October who
j 2 could be identical with OSWALD." .

16. This obviously was for comparison at the Station
which had estimated the age of the unidentified male whose
photograph it had selected as having the "apparent age of 35."

17. . The Station meanyhile had begun an exhaustive and
accelerated review of all its technical and photographic intel- "|
ligence. A dispatch was prepared in accordance with the
indication given in the cable of 22 November. The dispatch

noted that photo coverage of the unidentified individual had

turned up on 4 and 15 October. The ‘x of the 22 November 1963

pouched dispatch read: AY
"1. Attached are copii Gs Cn photographs ° J
obtained. . .on 1 my

oa ch appeared to be
an American. oe isitea{an] Embassy on

4 October 1963.
"2, Copiesof these A cevon were shown to the
U. S. Ambassador on 22 November 1963 and a copy of |

each of the two photographs was given to Chief FBI,

Mexico, on that date... ..

rr


14-00000 t la .

yogle

{ (

! (
"Pp, S. Photographs dated 15 % 1963 were
inserted after typing feo 5 Wes were
taken as [the] porseg @pre AgkAbassy.”

18. The "Unidentifie ©
unidentified. There is st ma ible evidence, as far as
CIA is aware, that the individual’ in the photograph had any
connection with Lee Harvey OSWALD or the assassination of

President Kennedy.

142 ,319

“PAGE
COPY Ko.

