# 104-10005-10287

## Page 1

1104-10005-10287

WHEN FILLED IN .

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

INSTRUCTIONS

PRIOR TO FILING

1. Fill in Sect. 2. on back. Detach back flap and

orward t

2. Destroy

Tai Lover 2h66P Mon

unless it records

significant action taken or comments requir-

ing preservation.

FROM:

TO: ACTION BRANCH

If file no. and title shown are not proper, in-

sert proper file no. below and forward doc-

ument to RID/AN.

PROPER FILE NO.

RD/AN

TO: ALL ADDRESSEES

FILL IN SECTION I ON BACK, IF APPROPRIATE

COMMENTS

TO

ROOM

NO.

WE/5/S 432607

Croce

3.

4.

Ruck

5.

Bramar

DATE

RECEIVED FORWARDED

64

120422

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

thor 4 cr

Hashis

8.

9.

10.

11.

15₽966

14.

15.

16.

17.

RID/FI

TRACE

REQUEST

DATE MICROFILMED

rong 610a

ABSTRACT

INDEX

14,3: 84s soute to the

eI stoff

Let un trace.

- 384 Ph. rus tracs,

i DI tracks

Document Number.

897-391

for FOlA Review on

JUL 1976

WFA

NI/

CI/RA

RID PHIC ASING SUSPENDED

PLEASE INDICATE HANDLING

A Retain in

201-289248

100: Ruber)

D Destro::

Sier: Document di chi. Not Be

Integiated faso it C: theords Systom.

Record's

and Signatuee

Requircu.

It Retention of Docuncht Desired for l'e

D'g':

We'in?

Fi:

"ali, Also

Checke

71as Kox

NOTE: This Document Will Remain Outside

of the CS Records System

Until the

Desired Handling Is Checked Above.

and the Document Return-& to Ill.

FILE TITLE

[FILE NUMBER (PRIMARY CODE)

DEFERRED

I DOCUMENT DATE

201-289248

DOCUMENT NUMBER

OSMA

6 0CT 1964

17956

SECRET

..d 10%.

---

## Page 2

13-00000

-DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION

SLORAT

INFO

Chler of Stalton, Paris

Catal.

FROM

chlor of station,

• Hadrid

SUNG ® Crank Lotter Cordorning Warren Cornission Losurent

ACTION REQUIRED

Hones

REFERENCE(S)

For information.

C/WE-

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NO:

OSHA: 17954

HEADQUARTERS FILE NO.

DATE

6 October 1964

RE "433" - (CHECK "*'" ONE)

MARKED FOR INDEXING

NO: INDEXING REQUIRED

INDEXING CAN BE JUDGED

BY QUALIFIED HQ. DESK ONLY...

Attacked 1s a Spanish-larguage letter addressed to the Amrican

Ambasandor to Spast, and signad by one Intilin Polis, alleging to the

Must paragraph that the nuthor has sun intormation of intenast to

Impart. After oponing the second paramaph by saying that he had to

too Paria die to an Indiaoration connittod there, the snthor states:

"There (apparently Paris), In the home ui sone Auertoan friends,

I got haid of an authentic docurent about the assamination in

Dallalle which they way vas swiped fron the Warren Connieston and

which in cortainly profudicial for Pressdent Johnson?

good authority that they are currently tryine to sell 1t to no leas

than the Director of "ParismMatah."

Someone from the limbassy of the

United Kingdon In Party 1a Involved in the matter."

a Madrid netapa lose heat lite enterto dot beanserted tea

There are no Station tracos on Antalin PIRIS, unich le almost

certainly on allas.

Needless to say, thore is no return address on the

Jetter or envelope, which was mailed fion farcelona on 26 September 1964.

he are forarding a sopy of the lotter to Farte for your Information and

on the off chanoe that you my have received siuilar allegations; in

ench cans, Indrid would appreciate learning the detaile so that no night

Inform the Enhasay.

It might also bo usoful to shor the letter to the

ODENVY representative in Paris, but this we leave to your discretion.

Tisothy F. HoBelo

Enolosura:

As otated bove

Document Number

897-391

for FOlA Review on

JUL

Distr1butdens

2 - COS, Paris w/enel.

2 - Chiof, WE

w/enol.

It-

"FORM

10-572

USE PREVIOUS EDITION.

REPLACES FORMATIO

51-28,

51-28A AND 31-29

WHICH ARE OBSOLETE.

÷s""

2O0 200147599

LITE

CS COPY

CLASSIRICATION !!....

SECRET:

1. 201-289279

PAGE NO:

---

## Page 3

13-00000

coa

E1 querido Stonembajador:

Despues do ni respetuoso, saludo paso a dec inteogue maste

nilda ha recibido muchos tovores de entendrar perso quen surue

tan dignamente representa le permito dir gruesa Damperagana

Sestarle un

asunto,

que puede serido la mayor inportancia,

Acabo de llegar de Paris, y por buenas razones el tiemose

prenia, y no se si llegaremos a tiempo Una inasoreoion alarco-

petida en aquella capital me ha obligedo a huir repidamentes

11, en casede unos amigos americanos, tuve en mis manos un doci

mento autentico, que decian escamoteado de la Comision investi

gadora varren, Vo suguramente muy perfudicial pera el Presidente

SI.

Monsen sobre

el asesinato de parles se de

buena, tinta

1, 068

actualmente estaban en tratos para venderlo, nada menos que sans

rector de PARIS-NAICH, Alguien de la Embajada del Reino untaos ва

Paris Interviene en elijuegos

Le posible que a uda los interesen nen o soungtanciag se

hecho. Puedo estar en Madrid. el die 29 cto. Sies 881ingpston

este anuncio en la seccion de venteo del diario Avendo anas

queles. Hortaleza 61, y recibiren mis noticias Ya veremos eu

TOla

do pues me. siguen rou pasos desde Par 10s

De su Exciao quedare amos

AntilAn peris

Al Sr.ambajador de/los

Eetados Unidos.

CS COPY

05m 9-1195 4

20142:90

DEFERRED

---

