# 104-10216-10178

## Page 1

104-10216-10178

ORIG :

UNit

EXT

DATE

• N.

SmuTEZ/mme

WH!SA/S0/3S

JINDĐ

7147

2 JUIN 1964

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

EISECRET

DO FLE IN CÓ FILE NO.

70 :

JAWAVE

FROM: DIRECTOR

1O

HOR

20B

DiK

IXT

100

In t3

SI

SS

PESO

LOG

Br

SEC

file

2

3

SB

HH

CITE DIR

12€2

ROUTING

5

6

T Jun 6'1 28

22z

SIE CEN

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

24886

WAVE

DESENSITIZED TYPIC SOBITE

REF: DIP. 22655

1. FOLLOKING IS TRANSLATION OF SW MESSAGE FROM AMLASR/1. PARIS

WAS REQUESTED TO RETRIEVE TWO PREVIOUS LETTERS AND WARN AND BRIEF

UNSNAFU/9 ACCORDINGLY.

2. MESSAGE 13. THE THO PREVIOUS SECRET HESSAGES WERE. HAND

CARRIED. THE PERSON WHO CAPRIED THEM DID NOT KNOW WHAT HE WAS

CARRYING. YOU SHOULD RECOVER THEM, SINCE IT APPEARS THAT MY

FRIEND (UNSNAFU/9) DID NOT KNOW THAT THERE WAS ANYTHING IN THEM.

WIEIl A LETTER REACHES THE INDICATED PERSON (UNSNAFU/9) BY ANY MEANS

FAND CARRIED OZ AIRMAIL IT WILL ALWAYS CONTAIN A MESSAGE, AS I HAVE

RECEIVED THE ITE'S NECESSARY TO COMMUNICATE WITH YOU. IF YOU MUST

SEID ME A MESSAGE, YOU CAN DO IT THROUGH THE SAME CHANNEL (DINN.

ERE PRIESTIA (ACOSTA) GONZALEZ,

HAVANA). IT APPEARS TO ME TO BE SAFER AND

FASTER THAN VIA MIAMI (ANTRUNK/10 CHANNEL.) •

ADVISE MY FRIED THEFS (UNSNAEU/9) THAT HE MAY LOSE HIS POSITION

IF HE DOES NOT ACT WITH MORE DISCRETION AND STOP TALKING SO MUCH.

COORDISATINE OFFICERS

#ELLABING OFFICER

SECRET

: REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy Ns.

301.252234

43 12.

waTt

---

## Page 2

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

ORIG:

UNIT :

EXT

DATE :

TO :

FROM: DIRECTOR

• CONFg

12-62

ROUTING

NESTOR SANCHTZIFES

SA/WH/SO/iS

7147

I NO INDEX

DO FILE IN CS FILI NO.

11N 1964

ti:

PAGE ' II

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

TO

INFO

CITE DIR

24886

MAKE HIM UNDERSTAND HOW USEFUL AND VERY IMPORTANT HE IS TO ME.

AS YET, I DO NOT HAVE THE AGREED-UPON IN MY POSSESSION. (TODAVIA

NO TENGO LO ACORDADO EN MI PODER). (UNCLEAR WHETHER CACHE ITSELF

MAY HAVE BEEN RECOVERED BY FISHERMAN AND AMICE/14S UNCLE AND

STILL IN THEIK POSSESSION). ANSWER IMMEDIATELY AND TEZI ME

WHETHER YOU HAVE RECOVERED THE PREVIOUS MESSAGES.*

3. PLAN WRITE SW TO AMLASH/1 AS SOON AS ANSWER RECEIVED FROM

PARIS. PLS FORWARD QUESTIONS STATION DESIRES INCLUDED IN MESSAGE.

END OF MESSAGE

#R/SA/EOB

5N:/SA/NO3/FI

1..,.

anight

Quulatoer

BRUCE C.

CHEEVER

C/WH/SA

BELEASING OFFICER

COORDINATING OFFICERS

7

EGRET

GROUP 1

executore third 2ht6r1a8h0e

comprating and

REPRODUCTIC BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

2000000.

Ao

MALONEY

WH/SA/MOB

AUTHENTICATING

"Copy tto..

---

