CSET

pace

‘SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT DOCUKENT IDENTIFICATION

ps
RI FILE NO.

3 OISPATEN OW SOURCE OOC. avuBOL nO. [er BATE

7 s0unct cave Tow

DATE OF impo. [s. EvacuATION

‘a ‘Dave PROCESSED

DOCUVENT DISPOSITION

iz. CROSS WEFERAED TO This FILE

ah
4 Hi If processing
Indicate on CS copy ehether or not carding has been

Staple this fore ¢o covelope of the pyaar dispatch.

Vs. MAME (Lest, Firat, widdle) on pavetowra BO. iF ASSIGNED om SUBJECT TITIEY
ie Ame asi, (aol-252 23/7 J 47 ser 88

3B. he. CASE ri 27¥ 3. oaNg oF pintW er
20/- ad : CFIA @
13 LeLt 6e

3. vidio FiLE NOL 9. 20 yw. (TF erone-rdference sheet to Be Tiled tm TOI)

sper)

10, © AND AKA'S.

Th Svaany OF ar onaaTTon :
Ah rs Clow aclirctrr dy prmensnl o4

CTH ue AvGusT 14be.

Ftd by risa

13, PROCESSING ROT REGUIAED
errice

Tt)

SECRET

TOE 867 use race

‘ehsamnene anata

Feat bee GEE



rn ceencin,

(then Fel bed Inj

DOCUMENT. TRANSFER AMD CROSS RErERENCE

‘SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION

z
RI FILE NO.

3. DIsPATEN OR SOURCE DOE, a¥mBOL NOW Date

nor Staff personnel. the attached document conteine inforeation
submit identifying inforeation on the aubjec
of

cstaple this form to envelope of the gvpar dispatch.
NO 701 NO,, 1 ASSIGNED

3 (.20¢-4as2z224 )

ourco} we:

Oh erat
Tana a

-Ry wo. case Fie rg Ez ‘OATE OF BIRTH
OL-P SASH P- bo Tl AI
Br Fuaee OF erate aE ae, 7 e1niTensKiP

E ft é
%. Fikip Fike woe an LAE at t0 be TITGa im 30)

20/— AD? by 9 fA tf)

TT aay oF ToT 7) r A, —
MO Ap fUlnsfart-| 2~ ui smell

12, FIELD CARD REQUIRED

13. PROCESSING NOT REQUIRED

