o4-0229-10051

i MEMORANDUM FOR THE

Contact with Pr, Ernesto de AKAGON

SUNKCT '
15 and 16 September 1961

1. Following contact with Dr, NINO Cardona by }
De/iYl, and the uncersimed at the Sheridan flulvadere ilotel (Koom 62h), : :
Ealtinore, about 1130 to about 1930 15 Septesrbor 1961, the undoreiimed, on
tho weniny of 15 Se:tenbur, spoice by bulghone on the following xoints H
H with MIkO'a rez:resentative, Dr. trnuyto do ALAGGI, who was with “dh at the
‘ Hew Howard Hotel (room 5075, haitimore. ‘The undaral ined baded the content
i of hio converration with ALAGON on guidance provided by Whe

YEOG Koyuent for i for Uso Inside H
Czas ve cannol jive 4 lavorubly anower to tis raques

at this ting, even though wo might agree with it in
principle, bocauso of thu following factora, aa we hope

i HAO will realize

: (2) Aconsidurable san {8 involved, approval 1a necessary
i at various Lovels, ana several differuut p»xougs arc
volved in any decisions

(2) Appropriate channuls for passing the funds will havo
to be worked out, : :

MEEO'e reply on thia point, ag ylven throujh ARAUUN, was that
we shoal¢ revisu the amount of fundy an wo found n-cossary and
arrange the aperopriate chansels for tranoaittal of fundos

roa_and Lauyerg.. Solution of tho economic
of the jurists and lawyere is ulso an involvod problem
rich no anawer can be given inmnodiately. An analysis of
the status of the various Judgun and lawyera, a fumber of whom
wore not included in the orljinal group, 19 boing mado and a
rezort is uxpectod daring thy wouk beginning 17 Seytonbure
Upon receipt of this report, we shall bo in a powition to como
to a decision.

by

fr. H1KO's anwar to this informatiun, azain dulivered throuch
ALADCR, was that he had : ean told by Hr. voodwin, in a meting on
13 beztember, that a golation had buen arrived at coneerniny tho
jidges and lawyere, AiABT? on hatically confirmed thie statezont,
but when pressed for datatly by tho undursigned couldy not, or



|
|
j
i
i

2.

versation with AVAGON and, at shout 1936 16 Septeasber, ayaln as
AKACON, wno was atill tn the

Gdvine him and SIRO of the folls«ine
and lawyura, as requestod by L6/:iii/t,

_ Be Wo uxpect.

that he would return to
‘ia anaver 29 the robles
sy Hes

aa

woul: not, give any dotalla. MIK0 etated,
Miami on 18 Soutomer ane virtually comand
ef tha Judgoa ana lawyuro tuforc ho lufte* prrwtbicstore

AFAUON wap told that col, Wendoll
fohnson, atlrei, un oatstaading man “of «ide military
and political experiuncu, hud boca duntynated aa :tnanont cone
tact for MEO ur vhat Col. Johinoon woul also Ze in froquent
contact with iar. Goodwin, Col. Johnson wis now in the procese
of moving to vant anv: contact Letwuon hia and i050 would be

established within ten cays to two weoKe,

¢. Porminent Contact for i

HIRO oxprossed patisfaction at the Ccalgoation cf “ol, Johnoon
aa contact.

Us cone
see with

Hua linward Hobol (Roun £67), talibesra, to

cneernini: the otatus of tho judges

Tho uncoroigned reo: ted thu above to LLY Lol]:

tbo work oat dutaile to provide Ir. HIPG or hig
designee, 95,000 for the judges and lawyura for the nonth
Of Aayust 1961 and 15,40 for the month of Leptecver 1951,
these amounts in adiitton to the nontly euns gives via
ALATAU. i

to reduce the number of jutges and
List and it wun, seh H1KG'2 rearonetbi lity
re to bo

be Ho hed boen propoata:

lawyers already on thy 5
to make the aoleetion of the jutzon and lawyura wha

paid from the funca to bu ; lace! at nin clozosale

The tranoition of evntrol and payment of the sulves and lawyera
from ALAKAU to Hii would suze to by worked vie acotily and
without rancor by #350,dearAto toe pureonal feelings of AsO
towards ALAZAU, elace ft waa necessary to avoid {afiiting and
Feerintnation whieh woalt recone oven and attract puslie noticed,
If clashes led vo piclicity, eujort for the Jucgea ani Lawyore
would have to be withdrawn, :

ce

wroip 13 expected to unyare in positive
on prograns Savolvtar thea will have to
be submitted to the au contact for approval. If peeitive
Programa are not developed, the judien ami lawyers ca-iot ex=
Peck continulny siz-ort. Further, the Juicer aad lawyers group
te not a reliu€ orsanizarion and somo of its muaters uho may
fed Jobs shoal: Leck to ii.vi for positions or indi xicsally

scek umployment. .

d. Tho Jucges and lavyore
activitivs and all acti



3

os. Pr. MIRO and hin cntuura)e should not talk indiseriatnately
And loosely about doat;natton of the naw contact, Col,
Jehnson, but shoulu hold 1t closely, nob attempting axpediontly
to rvprusant it to the exile group.o ag a yroat political
triusph indicating; a mandate for MIKO. Tie. undersigned asked
Dr. AGAGON whothur ho and HIW had any questions on tho fore=
going and upon calling back to ANAGC wan told that xIKO had
only one quostion, whuther he’ cou
and lawyera for August, vnc tho vams acount tor Serterbar, Tho
unceralgned anowered affirmatively, which satisfied ALAGOS and
'GhO and the conversation anced, The anneretgned then advised
Le/wi7l of tho uzohot of the conversations of 16 5

as
ft. Ge CHAMRYRLAIN
wi/PO/3

expect $5,000 for the Judges

Sh eee oe LMR tt

Pasir eer

