# 104-10102-10288

## Page 1

104-10102-10288

1

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION

S-ES-R-5-1

PROCESSING ACTION

MARKED FOR INDEXINO

Chine, Wi Diviston

chief of station, dexico City

FROM

chief of Jero, Houtarrey

Amantasle de la GAlA ahs Rasdel I. Pleststel

ASTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

aference: H: 1112

NO INDEXING REQUIREU

ONLY QUALIFIED DESK

CAN JUDGE INDEXING

MICROFILA!

1: On 23 Way 1962 Ansaracio de la "Surea Celephoned the OIn Installa-

ison and remested en interosen wich the ChiVy reprecentantre. He un told

nt that thin that no ODENVY representative un located 1n Mentarway but was

Given the none of in officer 1a (pRICKs) (actually the OlIVY represearativa)

with who be minbt discuse hia

"probles.

Subject aald that he mo minly

cerusted in obtaining employment with khair. At the time of thie cerea

cie, Chu sabject enld that he uno Merican born and wes son a matralised

U.S, efteen unhey the une landel l Fleupatrick. The QUIVI representative

rusinatel that Suhject should send a letter to KIIK leadyuartare Bluce no

one in Imterray could help him.

32

0n, 7 Septenber 1962 subject again telephened the (ODIEID installation

and astel fu ppent with the sens OINY prennentive. Mie story vas the

nan an arted in paragraph one above. The DRIVE representative save hi

che eldea of Illn Headguarters.

5. Da 12 July 1963 sabject coma personally to the ONCID installation....

and askol the lecal receptionlet 11 he could sall wich the MURAlk fictio

Sal GARDNI mu at the raceptios dent el the llme and che seepcieniot

asked GAlITy if he lasy anyone that subject could contact. GARDYa les: Ba32

mArID officialy pole with subject who said that he santed to obtain e

ployment ulch NUIRI. CARDINE puspreted that subject urite direetly to KUBARK

Mealquertors and send than his biographic Idata and reasons for seeking e

ploymet®

sabject wanted to know at that tine 11 ChICH wuld Eard his

later sinca he dida't trust the Marican meld ayates completely, CARDENS

sumpented that in that case 1t uight be better te poat the letter la the U.s.

Subject Ive QuinnIE a porsonal collins card el thee sine Identifying himelf

m tha aseletant nannger for "alory" at the Inco de V'amate Ilpacocario,

3od, locuted ta bonterrey.

Bubject spenks excellent kagliah, to about j'By" dahelght, waiglis

aboar 1S5 pounda, and 1e slighely bald.

32

A camplate nass trace of(MICIN) ODENTY end Bare filed reverla no

additlonel Interntion on Subject at thia tina. A check of the Polletileno

12868

"ROSS REFERENCE TO

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

DATE

HMXA -2012

CLASSIFICATION

B Movember

• 1963

:!QS FILE NUMBER

5056-12

---

## Page 2

CONTINUATION OF!

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION

DISPATCH SYMBOI AND NO.

HER 4012

Fasten Be dale a chee li, on pay oped i he end a raced

i mint to empy estore a food mutacion is the local omnity.

o' ta vias of the epparat fast that subject arsbubly had mate loen

hdo taterpot In AMl mploymeat to one of hio friends, end considering

the face thns ho had not suagnced ony astenl scease to tassate of LoM.

anure, the liase decided not to talts any sotten in chis case shen 1%

Elat one to the attentios ol lasa peresnal.: The done will frict Head.

i can

---

