# 104-10071-10125

## Page 1

104-10071-10125

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

ROUTING AND ABCOND GNUST

The 12359

Or Opraar dekatatana siould us used in to "no" colum.

This Routing and Reeord Sheet chould to ratred to kegistry.

MANALYSIS

EPSA 3400%

rigg

(2Co

TELEFICIE

COMMENTS

FUDD

25

1000 ena

1112

06

283;

BB.

13151

F34-

Nefs/India

3:03

• 211/11

30 MA!

rAvo

• s6

3-5,7,9: Subjoot is

as Comestador

POGLAJEN dO MOLAROGIC

1210]

Beag

169

10 T

200/2

A 10 00

RATS

COLDS ANS

TetanteD

8916

ISYRODUSTION IS DEST OSTAIMABLE

FROM APERTURE CAND SUBMITTED

---

## Page 2

14-00000

056930476

Secret

z2

DISF

PROS491 -

DATE?

11 larch 1955

TO:

PRO18,

SUBJECT:

Chiof, FE

Santor Reprosentative,

GENBRAL- Intolligence

REF 3

SMANI-9539, DIR-39952

lo Attached aro tuo coples of a memorandum for the record on the Subject of a

contact batueon Robart F. CHATHAM and "Profesaor LAURA" to uhon roforonco was

made in both(@4AH192539 and DIR-39952. Ihia contact uas nado at the requaat

of the doputy chief to MIDWATCH.

A saniticod copy of tha namorandu has

boon transmitted to the MiINATCH offica.

Any action in furthoranco of the

discusaions described in the memorandum would necossarily be taken by the

local ODACID eatablishment.

2.

No plans are precontly known for extending ORACID support to Subjoct; hou

ovor, if any such support vere to be given by private parsons (such as

Secrotary ARANETA) thie probably would not becone known to aDYOkE circlo3.

30

It appearod fron his remarks that Subject had not contacted KUBARK channole

In tho courco of hio current Aaian tour - eithor in India or Indochina.

Disoret questioning revealed that the 2 March meeting under ARANETA O

sponsorohip uns evidently Subjoct's firat direct appeal, in tha courso of

bio current tour, to obYoke far asaidtance.

Howaver, Subject way have been

ulthholding dataila of other contacts with ODYOkE roprecontatives. Thia

would appaar a valld assumption in viow of the fact that he doniad in

respond to a question that he had contacted OMOTE apresentatives recant.

Ly in Hong Kong (per paragraph five of (SIAND-9539).

| with roference to tho potontial far KUBARK purposes of Subject'a organisation,

18 bocame manifestly apparent in the course of his remarka that no cohesivo

vehicle exiots for the purposes he described (hoover laudatory his purposes,

portlcularly in tha Hanoi Haiphong aroas); that Subject has given only

linited ottontion to the types of materiala to be disseminatad by hio

"friends", and that Subject appeared to bo far too unayotonatie to be

entrusted with anything but the finished product in quantity (rather than

fundo to arrange for ite publication).

Clavence Er. horse

for Clarenco I. Douthat

Attachaonts

Too copsus of memorandum as indicated above

EPRODUC

Chether

B..

Secret

P* COPY

39i-546

574-8

18916

---

## Page 3

14-00000

Secret

TAPES. TES

(610347) 3497

22

3 March 1955

ENORANDUN FOR THE SECONDS

On tho evening of 2 March 1955, CHATHAN: proceeded to the apartment

of Agrioulture

Soaretary SalvadorfarETA with a arbor of the OLACID political section and an

ODCHOP staff membar. In brief convorsation with the ODCHOP offlear prior to

resching the ARANETA hono, CHATIAN explained that he had beon instructed not to

spootsteally identify lingelf as anything bui OLACID (that da, not to clain

UBIA connections!& and that sonathing as known of the "Profesoor"a"

autoitles eluchore, snich though apparently woll intentioned, more subjoct to

come question from the UnlolE polloy viespointe

The ODCHOP offloor explained

that his only interost was in complying with the wlahes of ARANSTA (with whom

ho had close liaison relationship which he di not wigh to jeopardise in any way)

that he bring some reprosentative of OlACID by to noet bio guest.

No moro unhorod into the ARANITA penthouss at 6115 pou. and voro tamedtatoly

aroated by ARANTA hingell and hia wifo the evidently had been convering on

the balcony with the man thay introducod as "profossor LAURA" o senorhat care

fally enphasting the title and the nano, the latter was pronouncod "LOU (aa

In loud) RA" elving equal otrado to boto ayalabico.

Subject sna offusivoly friendly although quite shy in hio greetingo. His aocent

1e entroly strong, bearing sone rosenblange to any Slavie group but with one

other failuenco ao voll. Ho 10 approximatoly fifty (both in appsarango and 10

actual agal, vasre horderined glas0a8, pussar volgle elvilian clothes, and

with a groat shook of very unito hair, worn long.

Va cat in a cirolo (creapE fOs Mro. ARMIETA, uno vitharou Irmediatoly). Tho

OmgOP can oleo dapartad vory voon aftor our amrival with apologica and cr.

plazationo of anothor engagesent. Subjact apread a amall nap. on the floar. and

bezen nointire ous tho areas of Communlot InPluonce and control (all of unio

any carted in obades of red) and tha potontial victina of the sat Commute

Insuroloas eganse tho lest. la focussod'hia attention (and oure) en Indo /

Chins and India.

Subject circulatol a quantity of pashlato and brocharea or nagasinos in various

Sanguag00.

Ho cápinaned that do had passcaally ploted those up in tea courco oi

o vary sen daya oport socanaly in inita, thoro ha had boon vialting villages

to polated cas tbas alass? all tho publications ware

produced in Nozaca and tio rusalunns in Felpina. Ra cantimed by saying that

Cho Commeloto (Rucstan c Chicaso) hava a complato nonapoly in booko end all

eagan el painted matter do Lurla costa farticularly in the crallos louro and

villages. Most es tacao pablicationa Gro chroulated fross sens es tban sost

lso or throo or four carabos octo dro in Englich, othora are in the various

alalrati, They are on ovosy consosvable subjoot and ara deaignad 808 all a80a.

22

Ench 11 % (131)

2i.341

CORY

-=174

ODUS

TIONS

---

## Page 4

14-00000

vecret

9108000 explainad shad in Iedia (ond In Indoochina) thone pablicasions are baing

guard into cho cantost harloto lus a flood from hosoon and resping..

puoplo don't havo so coas roading satoriala, nor do they havo to go far for an

expianstion of unat thee pamphlota contain.

viara to explain the satorial, particularly in tha sohoole and anona youths and

132323

So cold (20 anauer to a question) that ha had coon acme Usoproduced materiala

in Chono arcas, but that thoy voro almost imposoible to find in the outlying

orasg.. Ho podated out that the Caruntos satorialo voro clovorly dons and in

cano e3a03, boaustful oxamplos of printlag and propaganda precontation.

sungode otatad that ha l0 now most intorcated in the haiphong and kanol areac

8 indoobina bocauso those vill ba turnod over to the Camunlots very door

Is otatod that his idoa lo to flood thoao eritical placeo

calch faco the conaundot tido monentarliy vith on nuch anti-natortaliatie, pro

Caraculan roading caterial as pocaiulo. Ha hopea thoraby to "amunices the

alada of tho diaplo passanto ond masoda of people againat the appalo of

accolosio Camunion und matorialiotle dootrinos which thoy teach unich turn

non against rotor ideao and civilication. He diaplayod covoral cucmples of

wad ho had in ainde la pointed cat that

thaoo publications (ono of tbase was

a Cb10, multi-dolor Fronch magazina cnüitled "Dou triato" ("Thora 1o a God")

ubich ho had coquirod in Parko, and which he had sivon to "gome frionda" in

calgon to tranalato into Morth Vietnamaso

dialocts as soon ca posalble, along

with a sou otbar itona of a sinilar nature.

La essa explaiad that in thoca critical bordos arcao al indo-china those aro

many Catbolico wo will poon ba complotoly icolated from tha lest by the

Countain. It 10 hio idaa to roach theso poople baforo it 10 too late "through

cur flondo thoro" uhas to desoribed na Catholic laymon and pricate or just

plain peoplo uno soro villina to agalot in thio vorto

The tack is simple, and

caroly involvos passing along reading natorials to other knoun friondo for

furior circulation as broadly co possibloo

Thooo paople have the capability

to tardlo "largo quantitica" of this material, ha clairod.

"Tho loadora* are

cong they so toll than hou, lo did not explain uno had instrusted the

scary, or that they basu, or to thay voro, in faot.

He stated that thio

cas, in offcot, "undarground cotivity" and as cuch could not bo doscribed in

any dotall to coyona vino was not "on tho ground,"

Ha compared it to an 1co

liasa gaste, acaltilna that ho wu tha prinalpal Loador and notivating sargo.

la coaladead shai ba bas "holpful irtonda" in Parto and Rosa and Belgiua co

cohar plessa sho hed boon anaro cl bia potivitica sinse ho bogen in 2953. le

coaded that in this period, thay bad assloted hia efforts working from Roma

prizespally auto foland and Daochoglovakda end to a leonor extont, lugoslavla,

Langary end Remanta. la faou, ho cought to introduce "natoriala" unorever he

could babied tho Isaacuatain, by unatever neara. lo axplaizad that tie wort

so Daan to (Cosâtral YISSENAlT (unes be Idantitiod only vagualy as "ecasona

sneso cotivitica a cartelnly knou about®), end to ucno Anaricana de voll,

amarilay our cua Antacocdor to sicio Viro, Charo BoothiecE. Ho had just.

sobered fres Bango llo bad coso to Saigon in Detobor 295l da begso hio efforta

in tons country.

ilo tourod the curlying prone for oma weeka before proceeding

to Ber via India.

On rotursing, he had again stopped in India and then

preccaded to Saigon.

? OH

---

## Page 5

14-00000

Scerel

Lia Isration to coma to kandla to doot bolp had cosa iron "several jesuit

Endaniga tuca to tnay horo fren "hoir formar contacte in China.

Odes fren 1940 so 1945450, uhan ho had boen screed to leave for talian. to

maasaad those waill 1952,

go do laza for a roat. Ha had had many Irienda on Paduan and had "spast ecaa

E228" ElUGOULANO kal-abot asplaining bir 1da0d Sor using Taluan do a baso 80r

rea idsalogical oonquest of the nainland" to roach the pilliona of Chinoso uhoa

the Cornista had not you von.

ost China do Lato do 1952-53, Dut Dou 16 LaD tOO LatO. CHIARO La deseribed aB

a charts a chades, a logond who was ocaplotoly ous of touch even vith thinga

Lo fosvan. Tha Cimo'a son,lEMLaNO Chlogelmo, controlled overyching: to was

¡tralead in icaceu, bas formorly a Communlot, but was not one now.

usa a ruthloos, oyrical tyrant who would poon dominate complatoly.

do tho idea os tho Nationaliots roturning to tha mainland as "tha vildeat

Sally o uttorly abourd and fantaotio."

Do thia tine wo wore saated at the

Cablo ses dinnor. tra. ARANiTA let alip "Fothor." 08

Subjoot went on so desoribe the techniques

and pattoria of Cousint corgusot

and polloja lo osplained that ho had beon a particon loader in lugoalavia and

vond ca to explain the 11io position at longth, decryina the ecospianoo of

agitatom ca a broak fran llosocu whon 1t was noroly on acocumodation. He apelso

08 bio travola in tho USSR offor the ond of world war il and of his decomination

to no to the for last to work againat Coamunian.

Ho adalited, in response to

question, that ha hold an Ltalian) pasoport: "Iito did not want ua to leavo.*

'to cicousion vont on to a lonythy aramination by subjoor of sovior plans and

pimposad, as he porcoived then froa hia on parsonal esposuro to Boviot militariata

dusing tho war and to thoir political conniacora and cadros at hozo and abroad

ond at oll lovela for yearo.

Uto rovlow vas cometimes inclaivo, cozatinan

cangeroualy overinplified.

"Thoy could take Buraa or Thailand tonight by

tolephona, and Formoza tenorror night, the sama vay. But they von't " lo

capatnod tha soudoi polloy au calculatod to build up NEllU an a vorla figuro,

which wes oucocoding, dino ho was corving their purpocoa ebroad beautifully,

althongh ho lo loaing very fant at hono.

The Congress Party to ohot through

vita Comunlato. It lo only a natter of timo until 1t 1a complotaly a Comatos

стрелої .

Tho USSR did not want a shooting wary they uill continus a polley al procoting

They aro bullding atonio toreroth.

In 19u7, ha had told Cenaral OROVS that la kaan that ovosy loadina eratern

Europon etcalo coicatist vas at word in the US3R and that 18 mast to ensured

that shay bad tho bany fanaN did not cdnle this untll Sapteabor 3949. Ho

farosed (this polri una cheatad by quations) sona teben adonto beating by 82o

Us of savios cantara of industry to dator them fray thats innediato end long

range parposes cal to shalo tha regica fren within. Paranilitary (o1o) 0s other

typa cotlon, through thatevas vohiolo, would bo alaaipated to the winds . would

caklove nothing but buy a minata of tino a unlona it was ocordinated on a vorld

0aalo. Tha June 1953 Baot Goman plots vore our opportunity, the kent niesed

1% by sot pouring in machinaguna instead of veliudahes by radio.

---

## Page 6

14:00000

Scerel

E1S7-347

22

naked what he ranted fran un (or hoped to got, or noéded moat, or would sostle

A8or ho sald ho vould 217a to bo ablo to print Istoraturo for dietribution 1n

Ralphong-Hanos Iodiatady.

"Wa havo until the end of April." Ho thought blo

cantato and friondo could handle 300, 000 coplos . thie figure tool several

casonda to come out. lo knaw thoro was sono capability for thia in the lIs

machanion horo, uhich had oate regional responsibalaty.

Ho doubted that the

Bypalaços for Viotnameso dialooto vore availablo hero (thia point vas ralood

to discovor 11 posolblo what inquirios ho had mado). Ha has a "planoload"

(a quantity, he admitted on questioning) of books and pamphlete collosted for

him in Bolgius and t'ranca for diotribution in Indo-China.

Ho aoted if it would be possible for hin to o0e MIDWATCH before he (Subject)

loft for Saigon, Ma realised that Chief ULACID had had vory littlo timo whila

ho wao hore and thus had no hopo of cooing him.

He would walt until ap-

proximatoly 1oß Maron to soo LiWATCH if posaible. No promisos of an appoint

ment wore made.

Ho gavo one copy of the ironch-languago publication as an anaplo of uhat bo

had in mind for circulation.

It was explainad to him (and to tha Scoretary

abne so tore in no position to nato any sort of conmitzant, but that vo would

Drang bio story to the attention of the propor people at ODACID, eventually

Including, 18 posalblo, Chlor LAIli, by noral channola to headquartero oity.

Thie was vory gratllying to both men.

What to tere leaving the soaretary dollowed ua di

out to tho elovatoro

Rained that this man was, in foots

but had aoked for

to onablo hia to carry on this wort. la cocopied

sesrotary) hoped we could arrango vona assiotanço for this cause. Parting una

vosy cordial.

Subject makes a vory otrong improosion for hio tremondous epirit of dedication

to bio taak.

Ho 1s a otrong personality with conaldorable intelligenco, but bla

mannor do vory renerved and rathar ohy.

Hie obynoos nay dorive in done nodgure

fron the lingulatle barrior, hio Englioh lo quite llaitod, and coveral times he

usad French words or apremalons uithout appeantly baing avara of this.

Subjeat doas not appear to be voll phyoically,

- Lã entrinaly parvous, and sto

vory little at dinnor. Ha uso not at osse in thio social situation.

261-240

REPRODISTIONS

---

