104-10403-10087
vt.

ven ty SEOREE g

9 May 1974

MEMORANDUM FOR: OPS/RMO
SUBJECT : Watergate File Research ~ Final Report

1 The files of the immediate office of the Chief, OPS/0SG
have been checked for material relevant to the subject of this

memorandum. The check included chronological files - ray
cations of which I was the author while assigned t
in the period July 1970 to July 1973. Nothing pertinent was found.

2. I have attempted to recollect any other details which
conceivably could bi wtinent and which relate to the period
of my assignment ea The only points which I recall but
on which I have no tion are these: fe

a. There were occasi shing inquiries made of me
by American residents of, about the reported presence
in Spain of E. Howard Hunt in 1972. My standard reply was

that I knew only what I had heard rumored. For the record,
at no time did Hunt contact me, and I have never ‘rg of his

having tried to contact any Station personnel in during

the period 1970-73. I made no effort personally ascertain |.
whether or not Hunt was in Spain, and I had no effort made by ~~
any. Station member. : aicareecoe easiest

b. A Statjon.officer, | now -
assigned to| was given some information byan
informant in concerning reported activities in Spain

by Robert Vesco. I suggested that the information be given
informally to the Embassy's Economic Section chief, John
Oliver.. That officer was charged with keeping abreast of
developments related to Vesco. The Station did not pursue
that subject, as I recall, because it was not a topic of
reportable interest, according to requirements of the period.

RETURNTO CIA
Background Use’ Only
Do ‘Not Reproduce

E2 IMPDET
@ - CL.BY 056759



SUBJECT: Watergate File Research ~ Final Report (cont'd)

3. There is rio other employee assigned to my immediate
office who has relevant personal knowledge of events and
personalities.

Qi eo

Robert E. Owen
Chief, OPS/0SG

