104-10335-10006
5 nr

Assassination Records Review Board
600 E Street NW - 2nd Floor - Washington, DC 20530
(202) 724-0088 + Fax: (202) 724-0457

“ew 60”
CIA HAS NO.OBJECTION

i u TO
November 8, 1995 DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR
Mr. John Pereira Nie oe
Director a
Historical Review Group
Center for the Study of Intelligence
Central Intelligence Agency

Washington, D.C. 20505
Re: ARRB Request for Additional Information and Records No. CIA-7
Dear John:
Pursuant to its authority under the President John F. Kennedy Assassination Records
Collection Act of 1992, the Assassination Records Review Board requests that the
Central Intelligence Agency provide access to any and all internal CIA histories or
retrospective studies or reports on the following topics:

1. The JMWAVE Station;

2. The Mexico City Station;

3. CIA activities with respect to Cuba covering the period October 1, 1962 to
January 1,.1964;

4. Two CIA stations whose identities will be conveyed to you orally;
5. John McCone as Director of Central Intelligence.
In addition, we would like to request:

6. All indices to CIA histories held by the history staff of the Center for the Study
of Intelligence.

This request should be interpreted in its broadest reasonable sense. To the extent that
you question whether a particular type of study or report is encompassed by our
request, please let us know and we can advise you whether we seek to include it.

Board Memsers: John R. Tunheim, Chair - Henry F. Graff + Kermit L. Hall » William L. Joyce * Anna K. Nelson
Executive Director: David G. Marwell


13-00000

Mr. John Pereira
November 8, 1995
Page 2

Should any of these requests impose an unreasonable burden on you that we may not
have anticipated, please advise us so that we can work with you to modify or amend
the requests accordingly. .

In requesting access to these materials, we are not designating them “assassination
records" and we are not, at this time, requesting that copies be given to the Review
Board.

Thank you for your attention to this matter.

Sincerely yours, .

4 GU

avid G. Marwell
Executive Director


SECRET

CSI-0385/95
21 November 1995

MEMORANDUM FOR: Fred Wickham
DO Focal Point for
JFK Board Requests

FROM: John F. Pereira
Chief, Historical Review Group

SUBJECT: JFK Board Request No. CIA-7 (U)

1. The attached request from the Assassination Records
Review Board is forwarded to you for appropriate action.
The request--No. CIA-7, dated 9 November 1995--was received
on 20 November. We plan to discuss the attached letter with
our History Staff in view of the Board's interest, in gaining
access to CIA histories. (U)

2. We intend to ask the Board to refine the request,
which in some respects is very broad. In any event, we
would propose that the documents that are identified as
responsive be made available at CIA for examination by a
designated staff member of the Board. (FOUO)

3. #7 tions referred to in item 4 of the
letter are ind Moscow. (S)

4. Please advise how you would like us to respond to
the Board. (U) 7
J

fr Eececen,

. - John Pereira

Attachment

ane ar 3
copy: O18 S904)
CLREASON:__/) SC
DECLON:__%_/ sence

DEV FROM:_LOC 9-f

SECRET


13-00000

UNCLASSIFIED

SUBJECT: JFK Board Request No. CIA-7 (U)

DCI/CSI/JPereira:bas/x30335 (21 Nov 95)

Distribution:
Original - Addressee
1 - B. Harrelson
1 - C/HRG
1 - HRG file



13-00000

eg
«

CENTER for the STUDY of INTELLIGENCE
5 December 1995

COLLECTIONS
A LL

Mr. David G. Marwell

Executive Director

Assassination Records
Review Board

600 E Street, NW

Washington, DC 20530

Dear David:

This is in response to your letter of November 8, 1995
in which you conveyed the request of the Assassination
Records Revigw Board to be provided access to “any and all
internal CIA histories or retrospective studies or reports”
on several topics.

We have begun to identify histories and other items
that would meet the Board's request. The CIA Historian is
assisting in this effort.

I suggest that we discuss with you or your staff. the
possibility of modifying the request somewhat. Several of
the items mentioned in your letter cover a broad range of
topics. It would be helpful, for example, if the pertinent
historical time period for each item were specified, as well
as what topics in the requested items would be of interest
to the Board. This would assist us in excluding sensitive
information that the Board would regard as non-relevant to
the assassination or to the scope of the investigation.

Given the sensitivity of some of the materials
requested, we would prefer that you designate one or two
people to review the histories and other items in our
offices.

Please let me know your views on the above suggestions.
We appreciate the constructive efforts that you and your
colleagues have made over the past year to work out reasonable,
secure ways of handling documents. For our part, we are
committed to being as responsive as possible to the Board's
interests.

Sincerely,
o
Sermon
John F. Pereira

Central Intelligence Agency + Washingson, D.C. 20505 703) 351-2698 Fax (708) 243.8343



13-00000

ene Br Copy

19 February 1997

MEMORANDM FOR: Fred C. Wickham, Jr.
DO Focal Point for JFK Board

FROM: gd. Barry Harrelson
DCI/CSI/HRG-Senior Review Officer

SUBJECT: JMWAVE History -
ARRB Request CIA #7

1. We are now at a crossroads on a number of issues,
including ARRB staff requests to review Agency files and
other materials which were not within the JFK assassination
collection. A number of these issues have been pending for
over a year.

2. One such request deals with access to review a
number of CIA histories which might provide further insight
into the assassination or provide leads to information which
would do the same. A specific history which has been
identified as a priority is the JMWAVE history. It is our
understanding that the JMWAVE history consists of 32
chapters and that they may not be all together in one volume
(see attached). In terms of timing, we need to move quickly
on this to find this history and review it.

3. Thank you for your assistance on this. If you have
any questions, please call me (613-1825; 81825) or Gary
Breneman (613-1839); (31839).

Attachment

SECRET.

ADMINISTRATIVE-INTERNAL USE ONLY
WHEN SEPARATED FROM ATTACHMENTS


DCI/CSI/HRG/JBHarrelson:bkh (2/19/97)
Distribution:
Orig - Adse w/att
1 - HRG/ARRB #7 w/att
1 - C/HRG w/o att
X- JBH copy w/o att
1 - GMB copy w/o att

“SECRET

ADMINISTRATIVE-INTERNAL USE ONLY
WHEN SEPARATED FROM ATTACHMENTS


13-00000

a ei ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY

CSI-0307/95
20 February 1996

MEMORANDUM FOR: Lee Strickland
DA Focal Point for
JFK Board Requests

FROM: Barry Harrelson
Historical Review Group

SUBJECT: ARRB request for access to
indices to CIA histories

Reference: JFK Board Request No. CIA-7,
dated 9 November 1995, item # 6

1. In Request No. CIA-7, the Assassination Records
Review Board requested access to “all indices to CIA
histories held by the history staff of the Center for the
Study of Intelligence”. The History Staff maintains a list
(64 pages) organized by agency component of all histories
produced under the CIA History Program.

2. We have advised the ARRB staff that access, if
given, would be limited to a designated staff member and
that the review would take place at CIA. Notes taken would
be limited to JFK/assassination-related items and subject to
Agency review. oc

3. We would appreciate your view by 26 February as to
the granting access to the list, particularly regarding any
equities that concern the Office of the DA. A copy of the
list is available for review in CSI/HRG. If you have
questions, you can contact me at extension 30292 (s).

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY


13-00000
ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAIL USE ONLY

i

CSI-03 07/95
20 Feb:ruary 1996

MEMORANDUM FOR: Becky Rant
DCI Focal Point for
JFK Board Requests

FROM: Barry Harrelson
Historical Review Group

SUBJECT: ARRB request for access :o
indices to CIA histories

Reference: JFK Board Request No. CIA-7,
dated 9 November 1995, iten # 6

1. In Request No. CIA-7, the Assassintion Records
Review Board requested access to “all indicis to CIA
histories held by the history staff of the @nter for the
Study of Intelligence”. The History Staff mintains a list
(64 pages) organized by agency component of 411 histories
produced under the CIA History Program.

2. We have advised the ARRB staff that ~tess, if
given, would be limited to a designated stafr member and
that the review would take place at CIA. Notes taken would
be limited to JFK/assaisination-relatéd items and subject to
Agency review.

3. We would appreciate your view by 26 February as: to
the granting access to the list, particularly regarding any
equities that concern the Office of the DCI. A copy of the
list is available for review in CSI/HRG. If you have
questions, you can contact me at extension 30292 (s).

XS ? \
¢ (AS —
Barry Harre

ADMINISTRATIV'E - INTERNAL USE ONLY



13-00000

ceeigiaee ADMINISTRATIVE ~- INTERNAL USE ONLY

CSi-0307/95
20 February 1996

MEMORANDUM FOR:

— es 7
DS&T Focal Point for
JFK Board Requests

FROM: Barry Harrelson
Historical Review Group

SUBJECT: * ARRB request for access to
indices to CIA histories

Reference: JFK Board Request No. CIA-7,
dated 9 November 1995, item # 6

1. In Request No. CIA-7, the Assassination Records
Review Board requested access to “all indices to CIA
histories held by the history staff of the Center for the
Study of Intelligence”. The History Staff maintains a list
(64 pages) organized by agency component of all histories
produced under the CIA History Program.

2. We have advised the ARRB staff that access, if
given, would be limited to a designated staff member and
that the review would take place at CIA. Notes taken would
be limited to JFK/assassination-related items and subject to
Agency review.

3. We would appreciate your view by 26 February as to
the granting access to the list, particularly regarding any
equities that concern the Office of DS&T. A copy of the
list is available for review in CSI/HRG. If you have
questions, you can contact me at extension 30292 (s).

Barry Har?elson

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY


ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY

CSI-0307/95
20 February 1996

MEMORANDUM FOR: ‘ li
DI Focal Point for

JFK Board Requests

FROM: Barry Harrelson
Historical Review Group

SUBJECT: ARRB request for access to
indices to CIA histories

Reference: JFK Board Request No. CIA-7, _
dated 9 November 1995, item # 6

1. In Request No. CIA-7, the Assassination Records
Review Board requested access to *all indices to CIA
histories held by the history staff of the Center for the
Study of Intelligence”. The History Staff maintains a list
(64 pages) organized by agency component of all histories
produced under the CIA History Program.

2. We have advised the ARRB staff that access, if
given, would be limited to a designated staff member and
that the review would take place at CIA. Notes taken would
be limited to JFK/assassination-related items and subject to
Agency review.

3. We would appreciate your view by 26 February as to
the granting access to the list, particularly regarding any
equities that concern the Office of the DI. A copy of the
list is available for review in CSI/HRG. If you have
questions, you can contact me at extension 30292 (s).

Bee

Barry Harrelson

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY


13-00000

ie CONFIDENTIAL :
7 Benign (e sR
21 February 1996
MEMORANOUM FOR: J. Barty Harrelson
FROM: B OST
SUBJECT: ARRB Request for Access to Indices to CIA Histories

REFERENCE: CS1-0307/95

As we discussed today, the DS&T does not object to giving the Assassination Records Review Board access to the indices to CIA
histories, provided the ARRB reviewer is cleared to the level of the classification of the material being reviewed. Please forward any
notes of any other product generated by the ARRB reviewer to me for a classification review. 1 can be reached at (secure)(37284)if you
have any questions,

ce: f @osT

CONFIDENTIAL


13-00000

Fi SECRET

19 February 1997

MEMORANDM FOR: Fred C. Wickham, Jr.
: DO Focal Point for JFK Board

FROM: Jd. Barry Harrelson
DCI/CSI/HRG-Senior Review Officer

SUBJECT: UMWAVE History -
ARRB Request CIA #7

1. We are now at a crossroads on a number of issues,
including ARRB staff requests to review Agency files and
other materials which were not within the JFK assassination
collection.- A number of these issues have been pending for
over a year. .

2. One such request deals with access to review a
number of CIA histories which might provide further insight
into the assassination or provide leads to information which
would do the same. A specific history which has been
identified as a priority is the JMWAVE history. It is our
understanding that the JMWAVE history consists of 32
chapters and that they may not be all together in one volume
(see attached). In terms of timing, we need to move quickly
on this to find this history and review it.

3. Thank you for your assistance Sy this. If you have
any questions, please call me (613 + Gi825) or Gary
Breneman (61: A

Attachment

SECRET

ADMINISTRATIVE-INTERNAL USE ONLY
WHEN SEPARATED FROM ATTACHMENTS


13-00000

SECRET

DCI/CSI/HRG/JBHarrelson:bkh (2/19/97)
Distribution:
Orig > Adse w/att
“1” - HRG/ARRB #7 w/att
1 - C/HRG w/o att
1 - JBH copy w/o att
1 - GMB copy w/o att

SECRET -

ADMINISTRATIVE-INTERNAL USE ONLY
WHEN SEPARATED FROM ATTACHMENTS


13-00000

HISTORY REVIEWED (NO. VOLS)

COMPONENT Rev. By Comp. Access OK / Restricted |Rev.

By ARRB, Date

DCI-2, Dulles 5 Vols

13/2/97 REL. | DCI

: nen
Not required; Uncl. versions available

| C—“‘“CSSCSCSC‘CS
DCS-3, Op. LINCOLN, 1vOL

LT
ICHSP-280, His! [i Vol_/7 [20/2/97 REL

DCI-7, Office of Insp. General_1 Vol 21/2/97 REL
Po

CSHP-384;'67 CA/Katzenbach Comm.

iA

CSHP-094; Dev. of CS Cryptic Rev. Sys. [24/2/97 REL? | DO | do Ay

—
deputy BY CK | iG? REL? |

bo/de!

a CHSP-76 Fovmatn ¢ Des Sov Bloc Drv
Le —“‘“CSCC*C*CT

ee eee eee

DCI-8; Off. Hist. Bay of Pigs, fVols = [12/2/97 REL 7 | DCi/DO DO Apperred
——————

id C6 VaosVietnam Coup po Aw, ———5
Peers

PE
DeS-S Contacts div. 14% a ee
a

bo ata

ott See

cus 66S the Tepe Ul Mego 12-$-£9
k “DWE Stohow _[teSt.Sena

# ARRE Steff wenbee has



13-00000

ee HBG Fire
‘CIA SPECIAL COLLEG@#BONG:atéve~ Internal Use only
- “RELEASE AS SANITIZ

3° March 1997

MEMORANDUM FOR: (Directorate Focal Points for JFK Board)

FROM: J. Barry Harrelson
Gains DCI/CSI/HRG/JFK Project Officer

SUBJECT: ARRB Request for Access to Selected
Agency Histories ;

REFERENCE: ARRB Request for Additional Information
and Records No. CIA-7, dtd 8 Nov 1995

I. Background

In August 1996 with the concurrence of the Directorate
Focal Points for the JFK Board, Jeremy Gunn, ARRB General
Counsel, was given access to an inventory of Agency
histories (item # 6 of reference) held by the CSI History
Staff. He made a list of 61 histories which might possibly
contain information of interest to the Board in its search
for additional records relevant to the JFK assassination.

II. Request

The ARRB's request is for access to the selected
histories to determine their relevancy or non-relevancy to
the JFK assassination story. It is not a request to review
the material for release. Access by the Board's staff will
be limited to one or two members with appropriate
clearances. Access to particularly sensitive material will
be limited to Mr. Gunn and/or Mr. David Marwell, Executive
Director of ARRB. The Board, Mr. Marwell, Mr. Gunn and
their staff “CIA team” have TS/SCI clearances.

III. Procedures

1. An HRG reviewer will screen the 61 selected
histories to determine if they have some substantive
relationship or connection to the JFK assassination story
(locations, time-frames, events, individuals, etc.).

a. If so, HRG will contact the Directorate Focal
Point for the JFK Board* and request that a responsible
component official review the selected history to
determine the level of access that may be given the
ARRB: (1) access to the table of contents; (2) access
to selected pages/chapters, or, (3)access to the full
“= =history. If the history is viewed as too sensitive to

eee

_
Administrative - Internal Use Only


13-00000

ect

outa : Administrative - Internal Use Only

be reviewed by the ARRB staff, the issue will be
~ discussed with the Executive Director of the Board
* + and/or the Chairman.

b. If HRG concludes that the history is not
related to the assassination story, Mr. Gunn will be
asked to refine his request or drop that particular
history from his list. A certification by the Agency
that the history contains no JFK assassination-related
information may be required.

2. After review by the appropriate Agency component,
the Directorate Focal Point will advise HRG of the approved
level of access.

’
3. HRG will then advise Mr. Gunn of the level of ~
access and make arrangements for him or a member of his
staff to review the history in designated Agency offices as
appropriate. a

4. Notes taken by any ARRB member are subject to
review by the responsible Agency component. If the ARRB
member identifies a history or any part of it as having
relevancy to the JFK assassination story, HRG will again
review it to confirm the relevancy. The identification of
relevant information in a history does not automatically
make the history an assassination record under the JFK Act.
Further discussion with the ARRB staff would be required to
determine how that information will be dealt with and its
possible release.

=‘. 5. If you have any questions regarding this request,
please call _me on extension (31825) or Gary Breneman,

extension $1839).
I
Jd. Barry Harrelson

Attachment:
ARRB Request No. CIA-7

* If the history or a part of any history involves DO
equities, HRG will advise the DO Focal Point and refer the
history directly to the DO JFK team working with CSI/HRG.

at

Administrative - Internal Use Only


Administrative” - Internal Use Only

DCI/CSI/HRG/JBHarrelson:bkh (3Mar97)
Bistribution:
“Otig - Each adse (see below) w/att
XX - HRG File
1 - ARRB Request File w/atts

1 - Barry
1 - Gary
Addressees:

Fred Wickham
DO-dJFK Focal Point

DI-JFK Focal Point

DS&T-JFK —_ Point

Lee Strickland
DA-JFK Focal Point

Kathryn Dyer
DCI Area-JFK Focal Point

y
a

Administrative - Internal Use Only


ee)

‘ Gea SECRET C197 thew

tohy

~ ory

IG 98-0701 : eae

21 May 1998

MEMORANDUM FOR: DCI/IRO

FROM: DCI/OIG/IMO

SUBJECT: (U) Presidential Assassination Review
Board (ARB) Request for Segments of The_
Office of the Inspector General,
January 1952 - December 1971

REFERENCE: Memo dtd 01 April 1998 from

Barry Harrelson, JFK Project Leader

1. (AIUO) As requested in referenced memorandum, the
OIG/IMO has reviewed subject segments the ARB has asked to
read. In addition, Counsel to the Inspector General has
also reviewed the material.

2.  (AIUO) Both agree that there is no reason why the
ARB can not be given access to the attached portions of
subject report under the conditions of ref memorandum. OIG
concurs with this request.

ei (C) If you_have any questions regarding this
matter, please call Pon secure X77081/
Attachments
As Stated

“CONFIDENTIAL” When ;
Separated from Attachment

CL BY: 0680987!

CL REASON: 1.5(c)

DECL ON: X-1

DRV fm COV 1-82,MET 31-87

SECRET


13-00000

hoe

Cr

24 August 1998

MEMORANDUM FOR: Laura Denk a
Executive Director, ARRB

FROM: Jd. Barry Harrelson

JFK Project Officer, HRP/OIM
SUBJECT: CIA-7, Request to Review Histories
\ 1. This is in response to referent request.

2. The ARRB staff requested that it be permitted to
review the histories of CIA activities and components which
have been prepared over the years by, or under supervision
ef, the CIA History Staff for possible leads to Oswald/JFK
assassination materials. CIA provided a list of all
histories for review by the ARRB staff. From that list,
certain histories were selected by the ARRB staff to be read
either entirely or in part. Most of the selected histories
turned out to have no information relating to the JFK
assassination story. Those passages thought to have
information related to the assassination were marked by ARRB
staff for inclusion within the JFK collection and have been
placed in the queue for processing and release to the
National Archives.

3. This completes the Agency’s action on this request.
If you have any question, please advise.



13-00000

MEMORANDUM

September 12, 1998

To: Laura Denk
Executive Director
cc: Bob Skwirot
CIA Team Leader

From: Michelle Combs. Bellic. Crna

Associate Director for Research and Review
Subject: CIA-7 Histories

The CIA History Staff has written or guided the writing of numerous histories on
projects, offices, divisions, or special events within the history of the CZA. In response
to the Review Board’s Request for Additional Records and Information CIA-7, the CIA
provided an index to all the histories in the collection. This index was reviewed by
former Executive Director T. Jeremy Gunn and more than sixty histories which might
have contained information relevant to the assassination of President John F. Kennedy
were selected for review by the Review Board staff. Due to the sensitivity and breath of
information contained in the CIA histories, access was limited to two members of the
Review Board staff.

Most of the reviewed histories did not contain information relevant to the assassination
of President Kennedy. Sections of five histories were designated as assassination
records: DCI-8, CS HP-334, MISC-25, DDO HP 324, and CSHP 194. These sections will
be reviewed, processed, and placed in the JFK Collection at the National Archives.

The Review Board staff also reviewed the just published classified history, Fifty Years of
the CIA which was published in honor of the CIA’s Fiftieth Anniversary. This history
contained no information believed relevant to the assassination.

e:\combs\cia-7wu.wpd.
File 4.20.1 and 4.20.4


New Memo\Standard

” 25 September 1998

MEMORANDUM FOR: Bob Skwirot

FROM: Charles A. Briggs-Y-

OFFICE: DCI/CSI/HRG i
SUBJECT: Mexico City Station History

REFERENCE:

The Mexico City Station History contains at least 99 separate cryptonyms, for the most part
concerning projects, but in some cases, individuals, covering the period 1947 to June 1969. In
every case, there is identifying information included with the crypt, ranging from a brief
parenthetical phrase to Several pages of detail. Since the information far exceeds that thought
relevant to the JFK story, both in time and substance, an approach designed to provide a maximum
amount of information and guidance for historians concerned with the JFK assassination, with a
minimum of gratuitously useable leads for curious or hostile FOIA requestors concerning CIA
activities generally, was chosen and is reflected in the version the Board has for consideration.

The norm in handling cryptonyms when the entire crypt is not released is to protect the
digraph - the location indicator..What I've done here, to avoid unraveling, in effect, the whole
history of Station activity for subsequent curiousity seekers, is to reverse the process, releasing the
digraph and protecting the root - specifically because the text identifies each crypt. The Board is
familiar with the decision to release almost all Li-crypts in full - while protecting identifying
information. The major relevant Li projects (LIENVOY, Nant LICALLA, etc.) have had both the
full cryptonym and most of the details released.

Station and Operation Directorate division histories are among the most sensitive documents
in the Agency. They are very tightly controlled within the area divisions - they are not available to
cleared employees in other directorates or, traditionally, outside of the division within the Operations
Directorate. Thus concern about the release of the Mexico City History pages that, viewed through
the widest of lenses, do not appear to be relevant to the JFK story,is very great.

cc:

New Memo\Standard


13-00000

Stoner

Memorandum for the Record

September 28, 1998

Subject: ARRB Actions, September 28, 1998

1. The Board directed that the substitute language in the first of the two outstanding
foreign documents be “an official service.” é

2. Inthe second foreign document, the Board accepted the release of the LHO paragraph
in full and postponed the rest of the document.

3. The Board ordered the tax record documents referred to the IRS.

4. On the Brigade medical files, the Board directed Mr. Skwirot to attempt to reconstruct

“white-banded” version of the document._. sspears

“5.“On the Mexico City History, the Board intends to release the two surveillance

operations (p. 229 and p. 296-298). Mr. Skwirot is to tag five or six other disputed

for consideration by the Board on September 29. eee

6. On the CI History, the Board directed Dr. Combs to work for a green document with
CIA IcD and report back by 10:00 a.m. Tuesday, is is not possible, the
Board will consider Dr. Combs’ recommendations. (Note: dvises that CI

Staff hours commence at 0900.)
7. Elder document: No change.

Tin / Lea _ an a hes Gone aS

pe ee WariCo Cty
Kesher -~- we hwe peshed the DO

be woud whe t Mhey woeteel, IL DO
LAG \e Appe a oo uIP Pr
We infor wreck Can winder Acs pe ‘s
weve nce | < ect, vs Peres ;

Ro es above are atlechod,



Assassination Records Review Board
600 E Street NW - 2nd Floor - Washington, DC 20530
(202) 724-0088 + Fax: (202) 724-0457

HAND DELIVERY

Mr. Barry Harrelson

Historical Review Group

Center for the Study of Intelligence
Central Intelligence Agency
Washington, D.C. 20505

Re: Status of Assassination Records Review Board Requests to CIA for
Additional Information and Records

Dear Barry:
Tam writing to memorialize our conversation of October 1 regarding the status of
Assassination Records Review Board requests for information and records from the
CIA. .
We discussed the following formal requests:
~~ CIA-1 (Organization materials)
CIA has made records available to the Review Board. The Review Board
staff will continue its review and make recommendations to the Board
and will request further information, if necessary, from CIA. CIA needs to
do nothing further at this time.
CIA-2-5 Complete -
CIA-6 (Cables and dispatches)
CIA originally informed the Review Board staff that these materials could
be made available by December, 1995. CIA now agrees to make the
records available (or to have a response) by the first of November, 1996.
CIA-7 (Histories)

Mexico City. CIA has shown the Mexico City history to Gunn. CIA will
compile the portion of the history that was shown to G. Robert Blakey,

Boano Memeers: John R. Tunheim, Chair « Henry F. Graff + Kermit L. Hall + William L. Joyce + Anna K. Nelson
Executive Director: David G. Marwell


Mr. Barry Harrelson
October 7, 1996
Page 2

which will be processed as an assassination record. Gunn will then’: “*
determine whether there are any additional portions of the history that -
should be added to the Blakey version. CIA will compile the “Blakey
version” as soon as possible and Gunn-will-promptly thereafter review the
documents.

Index. CIA has made an index available to Review Board staff and the: ‘:
staff has identified certain histories that may be appropriate for review.
CIA will make available those histories that are of obvious relevance, and
will raise with Review Board staff any questions regarding the requests "”
where the basis for the request is unclear. CIA will begin to make”
histories available on a rolling basis. ‘Review Board has agreed to review
histories promptly.once they are made available. Although it was not \°
discussed at our meeting, we would very much appreciate it if you would,
within the next two weeks, identify which histories you are prepared to
make available and those that CIA believes should be subject to further
discussions.

Cram’s multi-volume counterintelligence history. Although Cram’ 's
history was not specifically discussed. at our meeting, the
staff understands that the history has been located and the Review:
staff awaits its being made available.

CIA-8 (Intelligence community staff)
CIA will provide a report to the Review Board staff within two weeks. ~

CIA-9 (Publications and analytical materials)

The Review Board staff provided CIA with a list of certain publications as
they appear in an LBJ Library finding aid. CIA will report back on
recommended action to the Review Board promptly.

CIA-10 (Interagency source register)

CIA has compiled information responsive to the request. CIA will make
records available within two weeks.

CIA-11 (Duran’s original statement)



CIA has been unable to identify to date Duran’s original statement. CIA
will make some further attempts to locate it.

CIA-12 (MWAVE materials)
CIA will begin to make materials available on a rolling basis.
, With respect to the informal requests, it is our understanding that:

CIA is inquiring into matters related to Spas Raikin. The Review Board staff will
discuss issues with CIA once the pending research is completed.

CIA is locating a.cable number IN 24738 (7 July 62), which is identified in record.
number 1993.07.20.10.18:29:650630 (Box 34, F 22), p. 2.

CIA is inquiring into matters related to Marilyn D. Murrett. The Review Board
staff will discuss issues with CIA once the pending research is completed.

CIA is continuing to search for HTLINGUAL records, particularly those
identified in Church Committee index that was provided to CIA by Review
Board staff. CIA is prepared to provide oral briefing on HTLINGUAL.

Please let me know if you have any supplements or corrections. We would very much
like to ensure that these matters are handled expeditiously.

As always, thanks for your cooperation and assistance.

Tani Associate Director for Research


13-00000

Assassination Records Review Board
600 E Street NW - 2nd Floor - Washington, DC 20530
(202) 724-0088 + Fax: (202) 724-0457

October 27, 1996

Mr. Barry Harrelson

Historical Review Group

Center for the Study of Intelligence
Central Intelligence Agency
Washington, D.C. 02505

Re: Status of Assassination Records Review Board Requests to CIA for
Additional Information and Records

Dear Barry:
Iam writing to follow-up on our letter of October 7, 1996, regarding the status of
aera Records Review Board requests for information and records from the
Formal Requests:
CIA-1
Review Board staff review continues. No CIA action needed at this time.
CIA-6 (Cables and dispatches)

CIA has agreed to make records available (or to have a response ) by
November 1, 1996.

CIA-7 (Histories)

GSunterintelligence. CIA has made material available and Review Board
staff examination is ongoing.

Mexico City. The Review Board awaits CIA’s compilation of the portion
of the Mexico Station history that was shown to G. Robert Blakey. :

Boaro Memeens: John R. Tunheim, Chair + Henry F. Graff + Kermit L. Hall + William L. Joyce + Anna K. Nelson
Executive Dinecron: David G. Marwell



13-00000

oe

Mr. Barry Harrelson
October 27, 1996
Page 2
Other Histories. No response has been received to our agreement that
H CIA identify within two weeks the histories that can be made available
i and those that should be subject to further discussions. ee

CIA-8 (Intelligence community staff)

CIA had promised to provide a report to the Review Board within two:
i weeks. Nothing has been made available. sian sac

CIA-9 (Publications and analytical materials)

We have received no materials responsive to this request. Additioi
no response has be received from CIA regarding the list.of publications, ©
that are identified in an LBJ Library finding aid that the Review Board

cae staff provided.

CIA-10 (Interagency source register)

CIA has not yet made available the records that it had agreed to provide.
within two weeks. (ves VOsweal on). an paneer

CIA-11 (Duran’s original statement)

CIA has agreed to make some further attempts to locate Duran’s original: *
statement.

CIA-12 (MWAVE materials)
CIA has agreed to make materials available on a rolling basis.
Informal requests:

Spas Rankin. CIA has made the Spas Rankin file available to the Review Board.

Review Board staff resea: vee Ope When research is complete, staff wi

discuss issues with LA. Silos Cam elleckiur pulled foes
KORE Vet Aourieus

IN 23738. CIA is searching for cable number IN 23738 (7 July 1962). ~ copy wh

Marilyn Murrett. CIA has made the Marilyn Murrett file available to the Review -
Board. Review Board staff research continues. When research is complete, staff


13-00000

Mr. Barry Harrelson
October 27, 1996
Page 3

will discuss issues with CIA.

HTLINGUAL. It is the Review Board staff's understanding that CIA continues
its search for HTLINGUAL records and will provide an oral briefing on the
subject. It is also our understanding that some HTLINGUAL records have been
located, but that they have not yet been made available to the Review Board.

Recent and additional informal requests that we have discussed with you:

Operational Reports for Cuban Exile Groups. The Review Board staff has been
unable to locate in the collection monthly operational reports for the DRE, CRC,
or MRR for the period between March 1963 and March 1964.: Please advise us
whether these records exist and when we may review them.

Moscow. CIA has been asked to search for additional information regarding
Mosco as discussed with Michelle Combs on October 24, 1996.

Tape. CIA has been asked to search for additional information regarding a tape
as discussed with Irene Marr on October 24, 1996.

Pleasé let me know of any inaccuracies in this letter or-any. suggestions that you have.
Thank you for your help and.cooperation.



wak Cory

Assassination Records Review Baa Yi
600 E Street NW - 2nd Floor « Washington, DC 20530

(202) 724-0088 + Fax: (202) 724~0457

CTION TO

November 8, 1995 TION

Mr. John Pereira

Director

Historical Review Group

Center for the Study of Intelligence
Central Intelligence Agency
Washington, D.C. 20505

Re: ARRB Request for Additional Information and Records No. CIA-7
Dear John:
Pursuant to its authority under the President John F. Kennedy Assassination Records
Collection Act of 1992, the Assassination Records Review Board requests that the
Central Intelligence Agency provide access to any and all internal CIA histories or
retrospective studies or reports on the following topics:

. 1.The JMWAVE Station; 2 : : a

2. The Mexico City Station;

-~3. CIA activities with respect to Cuba covering the period October 1, 1962 to
January 1, 1964;

4. Two CIA stations whose identities will be conveyed to you orally;
~~6. John McCone as Director of Central Intelligence.
In addition, we would like to request:

6. All indices to CIA histories held by the history staff of the Center for the Study
of Intelligence.

This request should be interpreted in its broadest reasonable sense. To the extent that

you question whether a particular type of study or report is encompassed by our
request, please let us know and we can advise you whether we seek to include it.

Boano Memsers: John A. Tunheim, Chair - Henry F. Graff's Kermit L. Hall « William L. Joyce * Anna K. Nelson
Executive Director: David G. Marwell


/

Mr. John Pereira
November 8, 1995
Page 2

Should any of these requests impose an unreasonable burden on you that we may not
have anticipated, please advise us so that we can work with you to modify or amend
the requests accordingly.

In requesting access to these materials, we are not designating them “assassination
records" and we are not, at this time, requesting that copies be given to the Review
Board.

Thank you for your attention to this matter.

Sincerely yours,

4 6vL.

avid G. Marwell
Executive Director
