# 104-10018-10062

## Page 1

104-10018-10062

1.

(WHEN FILLED IN)

• ROUTING AND - RECORD SHEET

INSTRU TIONS

PRIOR TO FILING

¡i in Sec!.

2. on back. Detach back flap

l forwaid to RID.

siroy front cover sheet, unless it records

¿nificant action taken or comments requir-

•ig preservation.

RIDIAN

ї:

TO: ACTION BRANCH

document to RID/AN.

PROPER FILE NO.

TO: ALL ADDRESSEES

FILL IN SECTION 1 ON BACK. IF APPROPRIATE

COMMENTS

. А4.

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

TO

ROOM

NO.

SAS/ESC 31

3.

SAS/ Ret

SO/AR

5.

6.

DATE

RECEIVED

Ded

FORWARDED

63

Capy deteched

Document Number.

422-757

for FOlA Review on

MAY 1976

13 Ju 44. N

MICROFILMED

DEC 3 U 1Y63

DOC. MICRO. SER.

SAS/01 PeTitiLA JAN 1954 -

Hutchias

17.I.64 mi

Li Siste

alicos

B.

9.

10.

11.

12.

13

14

(503-3/655836

1 it

mile

% Wi

11 see

63

---

## Page 2

13-00000

-FIELD INFORMATION REPORT

GRADING OF SOURCE: A: Compleiely reliable.

B: Usually reliable.

C: Fairly reliable.

D: Not usually reliable.

E: Not reliat!s.

lo sources of doubiful honesty or loyally, regardless of their competence).

(Appliec

F: Reliability canno: be judged (Applied lo unlested

or insufficiently

tested sources).

APPRAISAL OF CONTENT: 1: Confirmed by other independent and reliable sources. 2: Probably true.

3: Possibly true.

falso.

6: Cannol be judged,

4: Doubtlul. 5: Probably

SECRET

CONTROLLED DISSEM

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

REPORT NO. @SPB 5/558 870

DATE OF REPORT

19 Decenver 1963

NO. PAGES

1

REFERENCES

HMM

COUNTRY Cuba

SUBJECT

1. Disagreements Between Fidel

Castro and Raul Roa y Garcia

2.

Frobablo Future Plan of

Action for Carlos Rafael

Rodriguez

DATE OF & 30 November 1963

INFO.

PLACE &

DATE ACQ.

United States, Miami

UFG- 4286

He bedender dood

THIS IS

INEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIY

SOURCE:

An educated Cuban whose reliability has not yet been

established, source is a veteran Communist, well versed in

economies, and enployed by the Cuban Governnent. Within both

Conmunist and Government circles source has numerous acquaint-

ances, a few of whom are intluential. The information in para-

graph

I was obtained from the brother of [

curing the course oi a conversation between the brothers,

that

in paragraph 2 from Carlos Rafael Rodriguez Rodriguez.

+ 201-097456

Fidel 'Castro Ruz was highly critical of the note which raul

El Roa y Garcia sent on 26 November 1963 to the Mexican Embassy

-Mottle

in Habana protesting the arrest by Mexican police of a Cuban

201

Consulate employee in Mexico. Despite the fact that the

employee,

Silvia Duran, was a lexican citizen, Fidel Castro

felt that the note was worded too strongly and would not con-

tribute to harmonious Cuban-Mexican relations.

2.

As of 30 November, Carlos Raza fod dariguez esprossed

the opinion that he would not remain for too nuch longer in the

Instituto Nacional de la Reforma Agraria (INRA,

National institute

of Agrarian Reform), but would leave his present assignment and

cevoto himselt entirely to working with the Conmission tor the

Ecoiiic Diroctorate of the Partido Unido de la Revolucion

Socisiista PURS, United Party of the Socialist Revolution).

Rod. coz has been having difficulties with various oft.cials

0f :

the

i, and has net little cooperation.

Rodriguoz is :..50 01

inion that present Cuban politics seen to indicas. an

vy Didol Castro to renove Communists fron excouive

cadadas

in the Cuban Governnent.

IS CITY.

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSOLI

CONTROLLED DISSOLI

---

## Page 3

13-00000

HGS

REPORT COVER SHEET

FROM

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

CONTROLLED DISSEM

DATE OF REPORT

JMNA VE

REPORTING OFFICER RA AST

Victor

SUCHARA

REPORTE OFFICER

Oliver K. PAPOCK/utabuS

APPROVING OFFICER

RD. NO.

PROJ.

S°CE CR.

BACKGROUND DATA AND COMMENTS:

TYPIC

Source: AMISLE-2 SW 34 of 30 November.

See a1so UFG-4222, 4235, 4242.

RID: Please Index.

REPOR

-tO.

UFG-4286

19 December 1963

MICROFILNED

DEC 3 0 1963

DOc. M:0P5. SER.

Received 12 December.

Group 1: Excluded from

Automatic Downgrading

and Declassification

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW

CONDUCTED OV. 25 MAY 1576

_IMPDET CL 31013208

Document Number

422-759

for FOIA Review on

MAY 1976

OPTIONAL: ENTRIES BELOW NEED NOT BE FILLED IN IF DUPLICATED IN ACCOMPANYING REPORT

DISTRIBUTION

INTRA-AGENCY

EXTRA-AGENCY

1 - State (Miami)

+ - H05

1

- 00/C

2 - ежі - То

cUT pouch

COUNTRY

SUBJECT

NO. OF ENCLOSURES

REFERENCES!

NO. PAGES

APPR

PADA

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM DOI

---

