# 104-10320-10058

## Page 1

104-10320-10058

1D/05-385

OGC 75-2491

8 July 1975

MEMORANDUM FOR: Associate Deputy Director for Administration

Associate Deputy Director for Operations

Associate Deputy Director for Science and Technology

Associate Deputy Director for Intelligence

SUBJECT

Eugene B. Dinkin v. Department of Defense and Central

Intelligence Agency

1. This Office has recently received a copy of a complaint filed on 26 June

1975, against the Department of Defense and this Agency in the United States

District Court for the Eastern District of New York by Eugene B. Dinkin.

Mr. Dinkin is seeking damages based upon a belief that a Warren Commission

document (No. 943) entitled "Allegations of PFC Eugene Dinkin re: Assassina-

tion Plot" is a misrepresentation by CIA and DOD of the facts surrounding his

assertion in 1963 of prior knowledge of the assassination of President Kennedy -

2. I would appreciate a response früm your office on the existence of

any files or records on Eugene B. Dinkin by 21 July 1975. Should there be

a delay in complying with this request or should you have any questions, please

contact me on x7503 or x1395 (red) .

Exile I. Jetion

EMILE L. JULIANO

ce of General Counsel

---

## Page 2

13-00000

TO

MIN CLASSIFICATION TOP AND BOTTOM N

SIFIED 1241

• CONFIDENTIAL".

SECKET!

OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP

NAME AND ADDRESS

DATE

MA/DDO

I82? Hgs

10 JUL 7975

C

6

ACTION

APPROVAL

COMMENT

CONCURRENCE

DIRECT REPLY

DISPATCH

FILE

INFORMATION

PREPARE REPLY

RECOMMENDATION

RETUAW

SIGNATURE

Remarkas

1-3

Please Act for.

3-5 You may wish to

Paul Hartman

onsult with

thing.

C/CI

on the Warren countes

FOLD HERE TO RETURN TO SENDER

FROM: NAME, ADDRESS AND PHONE NO.

гонька, 237

Emile L. Julian/OGG, 7D07 Ags• e

UNCLASSIFIED

7503

CONFIDENTIAL,

Use previous editions

DATE

7/10/75

SECRET

€40,

---

## Page 3

13-00000

SECRET

• CI

"155 - 75

NENORANDUM FOR:

ATTENTION

Office of General Counsel

Nr. Emile L. Julian

SUBJECT

•*.

REFERENCE

Eugene B. Dinkin v. Department of Defense

and Central Intelligence Agency

Your memorandum to the Associate Deputy

Director for Operations (OGC 75-2491),

dated 8 July: 1975, subject as above.

Your memorandum was referred to the Counterintelligence

Staff for action.

any files or records on DINKIN.

In it you inquired about the existence of

2, Attached are copies of all pertinent documents and

cables concerning Eugene B. DINKIN. These are part of the

personality file on Lee Harvey OSWALD, and are thus readily

available at any time. There are no other references to

subject in the DDO records system. Please note that the

document with the source symbol and number, XAAZ-176,18,

dated 19 May 1964, is also Warren Commission Document No.

943.

Any proposed use of the 'attachments or the information

contained in them will require coordination with this Staff,

which will of course want to sanitize them:

Attachments:

(1)

(2)

(3)

(4)

(5)

George T. Kalaris

Chief

Counterintelligence Staff

BERN 2397,

7 Nov. 63

BRLN 4752,

8

Nov. 63

BERN 2405,

8

Nov. 63

DIP 85270, 29 Nov 63

XAAZ-17618, 19 May 1964

SECRET

63-4

---

## Page 4

13-0Q000

SECRET,

CIRA/Paul Hartmen

C/CI/15G2

18 July 1905

Distribution:

Orig &

1

]

1

OGC

ADDO

C/CI/IS

27•CI/IS nametrace file

- CIRA - M.2.Hartman

4iS chrono

SECRETI

63-5

---

## Page 5

13-00000.

— USE ONLY

* Nai

) ROUTING AND RECORD SHERI

SUBJECTE: (Optional),

DINKIN, Eugene B

(OGC

•Case

775-2491)

FROM:

EXTENSION

2 C 293

NO

R-1659

PA: 16 October 1975

TO: (Omes designation, room number, ond

2.

3.

4.

3.

6.

8.

9.

10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

13.

DATE

OFFICER':

INITIALS

RECEIVED

COMMENTS (Number soch comment le

p whore Drew a lina occas column of

AC/CI/IS

C/CI/IS/PA

CI/EXO

1795%

AC/CI/IS

Vet

20

4.32

C/ci|pa

Distribution:

Orig - Routing watts-fled fora

1= AC/CHIS W/O att

1617150675-

FOIA File

sAS/Chrono w/o att

X-ref:Warren Commission

610 USE PRONOUS.

EDITIONS

V116

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

Re OGC request concerning DINKI

• (OGC 75-2497) - on.16. July, IN

received the attached transmitta

slip from OGC, asking C/CI/IS to

act for the DoosaT passed, thel?

request to Paul: Hartman on /537

18: July, and he and I prepared

a, response the same dates s

(CI 155-75) - This package was

misplaced in one of my safes i

On 30 July there is a note to

the effect that CI/EXO was

handling the matter for CT Staff

On 29 August, Diana Porter

recorded the following:

"Cr/EXO-office called saying

they had had. an inquiry re

regarding, OGC case #75-2497=

(DINKIN) stating

that CL Staff

was onty. component still out-

standing. on.this. request.

took our completed file to.

CF/EXO, which- indfcated CI/EXT:

was office of control. CI/EXO

remembered case and is checking

his records and will reply to

OGC.*

There is no record of any reply

from CI/EXO in our files, so I

do not know whether the five

documents attached to CI 155-75

were in fact

assed.

Attachments

_IMPRET CL EY O1162

INTERMAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED!

---

