104-10059-10106)

“TO SnceassifieD ==) INTERNAL (CONFIDENTIAL (1 SECRET
an ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT: (Optional)

FROM:

C/DO/IMS/0G —- UDYL22
2308

TO: (Officer designation, mber, and
boiling) fea eee rane: OFFicer’s | COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whor
INITIALS | to whom. Drow a line across column after each comment.)

C/INS Ad4ieu u)

3. PCS7LOC7ID 2D3?
TUBE: CUb
ATTN: N SHEPANEK

— a

fom G10 “soimste’* (] SECRET © [[] CONFIDENTIAL = [] {NTERNAL =] UNCLASSIFIED |


14-00000

MEMORANDUM FOR: Donald P. Gregg

PCS/LOC
ATTENTION: Norbert A. Shepanek
FROM: Marvin L. Smith

Chief, Operations Group

SUBJECT: House Select Committee on Assassinations
(HSCA) Request

REFERENCES: A. OLC 77-5685/4 dated 28 December 1977
B. OG memorandum dated 23 February 1978

1. (S) Based on additional information provided
by your Office on 14 August 1978, a recheck of the files
and indices of this Directorate revealed the following
dossier and documents concerning Louis Posada, which
have been previously forwarded to PCS/LOC:

A. 201-300985 (record copy)

B. CIOL-0445-76, 23 December 1976 (copy)

Cc. 31117, 14 October 1976 (copy)

De =¥208, 15 November 1976 (copy)

E. DBC-33712, 28 October 1968 (aperture card)
F. DBC-21524, 28 June 1968 (aperture card)

G. DBC-55478, 23 June 1969 (aperture card)

H. DBB-7006, 6 May 1965 (aperture card)

2. (S) Prior to forwarding, all non-Agency
documents were enveloped with the date, classification,
subject, and file number of each document typed on the
envelope for identification.

3. (S) CI Staff will respond directly to PCS/LOC
concerning Posada.

Vala. oy Ao an

Marvin L. Smith

WARNING NOTICE
SENSITIVE INTELLIGEN
AND METHODS IN



14-00000

OLC: 77-5685/4
28 December 1977

5 wa

293

MEMORANDUM FOR: Don Gregg A
SA/DO/O

FROM: Rodger Gabrielson oe
Office of Legislative Counsel f

SUBJECT: House Select Commitice on Assassinations
(USCA) Request

1. Attached please find a copy of a request for information
from the HSCA dated 22 December 1977.

2. As you are aware, we have been tasked to respond to
these requests within 5 working days.

3. Our procedure with the Committee is to require all material
be reviewed by the Committee staff in our offices. Notes taken by
the staff are classified ond sanitized prior to transmittal to the staff.
AN material which has been reviewed is retained by us in the OLC
Registry.

4. Please develop a response to this request as may be appropriate
for your office, and advise me if you are unable to respond within 5
working days or if you have any questions regarding our procedures
for dealing with the Committee.

Rodger Gabrielson

