# 104-10418-10354

## Page 1

104-10418-10354

CLASSIFIED. MESSAGE

ORIC : JOHN ME" WHITTEN

UNIT : CYWE:3

D INDEX

DATE 1 6 DECISIER 1963

D NO INDEX

DATE :

DO FILE IN CS FILE NO.

ТО

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESFIGAFION

NEBU'S HOUSE

ATTI:

MR. NOGFORCE BUNDY.

FROM:

HERE OF STATE

ALIN:

MR. U. ALEXIS JOHNSON

CENTRAL INTETLIGENCE AGENCY RE OSWALD

12-62

ROUTING

4

5

Чесс

2.9:563

CONF :

INFO :

BGA

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

0/07/91;748

TO

INFO

CITE DIR

B7520

SUBJECT:

LEs HARVEY OSWALD

REFERINCE IS MATE TO OUR OUY IELEGRAM NO, 86702 OF 4: DECEMBER 1963 WHICH

GAVE INPORMATION ON THE TRAVEL, OF MARINA OSHALD (AND PRESUMAELY ALSO LEE HARVEY

OSWALD AND THEIR DAUGHEER)

ACROSS WEST GERMANY ON TU

IR RETORI FROM IHE SOVIRY UNIDE.

INFCRMATTOE NOW AVAIIABLE

SERMS TO CONFIRM THIS.

3 JUNE 1962 ONE M. OSVAID, LISTED AS A MALE BUSSIAN CITIZEN ENTERED THE NETHERIANDS

BY TRAIN AT THE OLDENZAAL BORDER POINT.

COMHENT :

IN' IS BELIEVED THAT THE LISTING OF THIS PERSON AS A MALE INSTRAD OF

FEMALE HAS JUST AN ERROR OF THE BORDER OFFICIALS.

NOKE THAT OLDENZAAL, IS

OPPOSTIE FEINTHETH, THE GERVAY BORDER POINT WARRE MARINA OSWAID LEFT GERMANY.

BID OF MESSAGE

C/S COMMENT LSSEMINATION APPLICABLE ID RYBAT GPFLOOR. CABLES.

Document Number 334-133

for FOlA Review on MAY 1978

"authority of

HI CHARD HELMS

30l1-

289248

ABSTRACT

INDEX in

BATE De 61963

RELEASING OFFICER

COORDINATING

OFFICERS

Excloded fram automatic

ISEGRET

downgrading and

on declassication t

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

AUTHENTICATING

OFFICER

---

## Page 2

13-00000

CLASSIFIED: MESSAGE

ORIG':

UNIT :

: EXT

DATE:

6 DECEMBER 1,963

INDEX

D NO INDEX

I FILE IN CS FILE NO.

TO

FEDERAL. BURRAU OF INVESTIGATION.

WELLS EDUSE.

•FROM:

SPARENT OF STATE

CONF g

INFO i

TO

12-62

ROUTING

6

OSWALS

280

DEFERRED.

ROUTINE

293693

INFO

CITE DIR

87520

SUBJECT: IES HARVEY OSTAID

REPERICE IS MADE TO OUE CUS JELSERAM NO. 86702 OF 4 DECKIER 1963 WHICH

GAVE INPORNATIQN ON THE TRAVEL ON NAHIIA OSKAID (AND FRESUMABLY ALSO LEE HARVEY

OSWALD AID THEIR DAUGHER) ACROSS WEST GERMANY OU THEIR REJURN FRON THE SOVIRI UNION.

IHFORMATION HOM AVAITABLE

BREWS TO CONFIRM TETS.

3 JUNE 1962 CHIS 1L. OSVAID, LIFTID AS A NALE FUSSIAN CYXIZEN ENTERED THE NETHEREANDS

BY TRAIL AT THE OLIEZAAL BORDER POINT.

COMMENTS IN IS EELIEVKO VIAT WIS LISTING ON THIS PERSON AS A MALE INSERAD OF

MEMALE WAS JUSE AI ERROR OF YES BORDER OVICIALS. NOTE THAT OLDENZAAL IS

OPPOSTS INHEIL, THS CERVAT BORDER POINT WHERE MARINA OSWALD LEFT GARVANT.

SID OF MESSAGE

Document Number 334-133

for FOlA Review on MAY 1975

RELEASING OFFICER

AUTHENTICATING

OFFICER

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

---

