104-10234-10010

s&s eee ton)

cussiFieo xessace D sora cores 2p

swocss ves Deo

ence aro O) acy,
orsteov C} sc.

|
—
|
|

: Secret 1114512

| DIR CITE MADR 7456

KEYWAY PBRUUEW : ; ;

| REF: DIR 86697 : : UU karts #73160
1. QUANTUH/36 BROUGHT UP ANLASH AFFAIR AT LUNCH WITH OLIEN

16 WAR. HANDED OLIEN COPY OF FULL COMMUNIQUE WHICK HE RECD

BY POUCH FROM HABANA. REMARKED WHOLE THING SMELLS FISKY To Sina

HIM AND HE SUSPECTS IT MAY BE CAREFULLY WORKED OUT PROPAGANDA i

SPECTACULAR OK PART CASTRO GOVI. SAID HE THINKS ROBRENO HAS : {
PROBABLY SEEN WORKING FOR CASTRO ALL ALONG. ALSO CONSIDERS : H
HIGHLY SUSPICIOUS CUBELA’S REQUEST TO BE PUT UP TO THE PAREDON i
AND CASTRO'S KAGNANINITY IN COMMUTING DEATH SENTENCES.

2. AS FAR AS ALLEGATIONS AGAINST KUBARK AND OLIEN CONCERNED je
@ 38 COMPLETELY UNCONCERNED. WHEN OLIEN COMMENTED ANY INSINUATION i
ELTHER HE OR KUBARK INVOLVED IN ASSASSINATION CONSPIRACY COMPL-
LETELY FALSE QUEAGLE SAID KE SURE OF THAT BUT ADDED KE LIKEWISE:
CONVINCED THERE ARE PEOPLE CLOSE TO CASTRO WHO WOULD LOVE To
KILL HIM, eee
3. Q@ 38 THEN SAID ONLY PART OF COMMUNIQUE WHICK INTERESTS
HIN IS THE REFERENCE TO SABOTAGE EcRer IN SPAIN. THIS CONTAINED

|
: poses 1 Bla | be

Be ngdt EWEN Ling Tove secant ee ee ee te ee

he


jee?
qj TWO PARAGRAPHS WKICH ae EGR EL, LEON BROUGHT a QUAMITY

OF DYNAMITE FROM THE UNITED STATES WHICH WAS TO BE USED
ae SABOTAGE SHIPS BEING BUILT IN SPANISH SKIPYARDS FOR CUBA,

i finonc THEN THE “EL JIGUE." THAT GALLARETA DELIVERED THIS DYNAMITE
| TO "EL MAGO" ROERENO.

'
_ 4+ OLIEW ASKED IF THERE WAS ANY INDICATION THAT DYNAMITE | .
HAD BEEN USED IN ANY OF ACCIDENTS SUFFERED BY CUBAN SHIPS. : |
58 SAID NO, BUT HE THOUGH THE WORD WAS BEING USED IN A VERY : :
GENERAL SENSE AND THAT TERM COULD INCLUDE ANY TYPE OF INCENDIARY.
HE SAID THERE EVIDENCE THAT POWERFUL INCENDIARY HAD BEEN aaa
In susotaee/ iy ris FISHING VESSEL PARGO. Z

ae 3. -OLIEN THES, POINTED our THAT THE COMMUNIQUE STATES
THAT THE DYNAMITE WAS DELIVERED TO ROBRENO. OLIEN SAID HE
PRESUMED SPANISK AUTHORITIES WOULD CALL ORBRENO IN AND ASK
HIN waar KE, DID WITH THE DYNAMITE. Q 38 SAID THIS WAS UP To
+ QUOTA/48, AND SAID HE HAD GOTTEN THE DISTINCT IMPRESSION FROM
| wotasas THAT HE WASN’T TOO INTERESTED IN FOLLOWING UP THESE
| Leaps. QUOTA/48 KAD TOLD HIM HE THOUGH ROBRENO MIGHT HAVE eis
BEEN USED a AN AGENT OF OnE oF THE SECTION'S OF HIS be aneneeeennOns: ae ; !

oan

nso QUEAGLE SAID~ QUOTA/4B visi ars gigpusame uP INFORMATION

~~
os ee


rm

‘ te) so +a

= Pas w7wto
Yurcn MIGHT EKBARRASS naan? EEF bat THAT IF EITHER Q 38

naensner areca BATE

. QR QUOTA/48 HARBORS ANY SUSPICION KUBARK INVOLVED IN SABOTAGE

OF SHIPS, HE HOPES QuOTA WILL MAKE A THOROUGH INVESTIGATION
AND ESTABLISH ONCE AND FOR ALL THE TRUTH OF THE MATTER. QUANTUM/3O

SAID HE PERSONALLY IS CONVINCED KUBARK NOT INVOLVED BUT HE IS

NOT TELLING QUOTA/48 WHAT HE SHOULD OR SHOULD WOT DO. (IT
WAS LEARNED FROM QUSPORT/1 THAT QUOTA CALLED ROBRENO IW ON
NIGHT OF 10 MAR FOR QUESTIONING. HE WAS PERMITTED RETURN HOME

BUT TOLD HE MUST REPORT AGAIN NEXT DAY).

6 OLIEN THEN TOLD QUANTUM/36 OF INTERVIEW BETWEEN DCM AND
| eeteeey ‘| ay poe
OFFICIALS OF FOREIGN OFFICE. WHEN OLIEN SAID HE THOUGH SAGAZ
| REFERENCE TO "FREQUENT VISITS OF OLIEN TO BILBAO WHERE SABOTAGE

| OF CUBAN SHIPS HAS TAKEN PLACE” WAS A LOW BLOW, QUANTUM/3B SAID

HE SURE SAGAZ WASH “ONLY FISHING” AND MERELY INTERESTED If

HOW DCH WOULD REACT TO STATEMENT. OLIEN INFORMED QUANTUM/38
THAT FACT IS HE HASN*T BEEN IN BILBAO IN OVER TWO YEARS.
QUANTUN/30°S REACTION TO FORNOFF APPORACH WAS OWE OF AMUSEMENT.

7. OLIEN DOES NOT FEEL PUBLICITY HARMFUL TO AGENT OPERATIONS
UP TO HOW. STRONG POSSIBILITY QUSPORT/1 WILL BE CALLED 18 TO

is pes anit iRRR GOS Re enn i RN AE CERES |

EXPLAIN HIS ALLEGED IVOLVEMENT. IF SO HE WILL DENY SPECIFIC SECREQ,

ul guts tur ASSES SMMOB DAE AECL REN te aaa enmesearennatnaneonminas etnntmim nares oat re

Re



at

SECRET ey

CvaRGE KE PROVIDED CUEELA A SLM OF MONEY BUT WILL ADMIT [uTHe?

i af | UNDOUBTEDLY KNOWS) THAT HE HAS HAD “CASUAL

| CONTACT WITH KUBARK OFFICERS INVOLVED IN CUBAN MATTERS.

8. UNFORTUNATE ASPECT OF AFBIR AS FAR AS xusar{
RELATIONS CONCERNED 1S REFERENCE TO SABOTAGE OF CUBAN SHIPS

| IW SPANISH PORTS. IN SPITE OLIEN’S BEST EFFORT HE FEELS THERE

FRIENDS THAT WE KNOW

: SHEAKING SUSPICION ON PART OUR
i WORE ABOUT THESE ALLEGED SABOTAGE INCIDENTS THAN WE PREPARED

i
| 0 TELL. COUPLED WITH THIS, AND TO AN EXTENT COUNTERBALANCING
| at, 18 Pexfgers aw ADMIRATION FOR THE SUCCESS WHICH THEY FEEL
| KUBARK HAS HAD IN MASSIVE PENETRATION OF THE CUBAN COMPLEX,

| INVOLVING EVEN PEOPLE CLOSE TO CASTRO HIMSELF.

| SECRET : : :

CEN: 7456 86697 QUANTUN/30 AMLASH OLIEN 19 HABANA CASTRO
ROBRENO CUBELA'S OLIEN 030 Q 30 SPAIN CUCO LEON UNITED STATES
CUBA “EL JIGUE” GALLARETA "EL MAGO™ 038 SAID NO PARGO
ROBRENO Q38 QUOTA 48 48 48 QUEAGLE 48 KUBARK OLIEN @ 38 48
($8 HOT INVOLVED NOT TELLING 48 WOT DO QuSPCRT/1 19 38 DCM
“SAGAZ BILBAO 30 SAGAZ DCM OLIEN 38 a 30°S NOT FEEL
“QUSPORT/1 CUBELA CASTRO secret

{
i
i

