104-10110-10642|

} Date: 11/01/99
oe Page: 1
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM
AGENCY INFORMATION
AGENCY : CIA
RECORD NUMBER : 104-10110-10642
RECORD SERIES : JFK
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 80T01357A
DOCUMENT INFORMATION
ORIGINATOR : CIA :
FROM :
TO :
TITLE : SECRECY AGREEMENT OF DAVID LAMAR CHRIST.
DATE : 11/27/50
PAGES : 1
SUBJECTS : SECRECY AGREEME
CHRIST, DAVID L
DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFIED
RESTRICTIONS : 1A
CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 03/07/98
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS : JFK40:F25A 1998.03.07.11:22:07:983031:

fassin
ATTACH ME yy

IDocTa:32358896 Page 1


/

/Docld:32358896 Page 2

eaeeneee 2
O) \ georecy AcREEMENT C é

‘ 1. 1,Qavid Lamar Christ | ssserstand that by virtue of my duties in

{ the Central Intelligence Agency, I may be the recipient of information and intel-
ligencé which concerns the present and future security of the United States and
which belongs to the United States. This information and intelligence, together
with the methods of collecting and handling it, are classified according to

7 ° security, standards set by the Central Intelligence Agency. I have read and’ under-

_ Stand the’ provisions of the Act of Congress of June 15, 1917 {Espionage Act);..
as amended,‘ ¢ erning _ the | disclosure of informat relating to. the National
Defense and:

a 2. I agree that Ido not now, nor shall I ever possess any rij

“title or claim in or. ‘to any of the information or intelligence or ‘the’ met he
collecting or handling of it which has come or shall come to my attention by
virtue of my connect iox ith the Central Intelligence Agency, but shail alway:
_ recognize the property ight “of the United States of America’ in and to such?
matters. | “

2 3. I do solemnly swear that I will, never ‘divulge, publish no: reveal.
either by word, conduct, or by any other means such classified. information,
intelligence or knowledge, except in the performance of my official’ duties
and in accordance with the laws of the United States, unless specifically
authorized in writing in each case by the Director of Central Intelligence,

4, I understand that no change in my assignment or employment, will:
relieve me of my obligation under this oath and that the provisions of thi
oath will remain binding upon me even after the termination of my services
with the United States.

5. I understand ‘that my employment by the Central Intelligence Agency is
conditioned upon my understanding of and strict compliance with "Security
Regulations CIA", and the appendices thereto. =

6 I take this obligation freely, without any mental reservation or
purpose of evasion.

In witness whereof I have set my hand and seal this 2 7aay of Move 19 SQ

Mond Can EE (seal)

Witnessed by me this #7 aay on Ja 19 SA

at

FORM HO. RESTRICTED
oct 1959 28-33

