iog-047-40078

OF Gmlsatiea; ©.

arta Ectudestil (Die), :

Gorn), and Alpns 6.0 : :
This Agenty s.eigtaine an tnlofmal woskiag ralsitca with tis

principa: loading of tad SOK, Our imerest in the JGAS ‘aaa iact Cryae

talizes Butfiquestly to nase am Gotinata of ear futerd cse'et this

7 The. DRE sp of interest to:thia Ageney, whieh opiasaré and.
Sugports Ite -propaginds and intel gence cailection activity directed’
Bgatast Cada and ‘soiected areas iy the wa, ' 2 *
mibtary action Is-ccotecplaled for te far
B34 boon Iafori.ed-taat auloss thety geramilttary actions are-epecifie
cally ‘approved in aciace by tics AgeN67, thoy will be subject to
Droveative alive aod prosecution Sy tha Bpprenslate Usited states:
Grvarauiead agencies. Ag tho DRE te act & group ander complete :
Agency contrat, tuo: shave: dose ‘nck iasure thet toy will nct‘amuertiind:
loclaled parainiiuery operations oliise! priar nctisicetua,

Zacest tar a continulag couterintolligence interc’t ip tae pore
#onng) and netivity of tha SYNE, Uo Agency bas Do further taterest,
This Agseey to pot in cuntnet with ibe croup and, tn tect, marmtaisa
@ “aaads ati” policy toward Lt G2rcewt Bo Counterinteliccace imerests
dietate, Tho 5FNZ 19 distrusted and highly suspect is tio oes of tho
Cuzan axle somuually, 06 Bke recently enphaalsed Dy the distiosure
ef ite gotscsadant's issderebiy of extensible Alpha 86 actice,



v Beda. oad precaily fall: romain GUFIBREES' > ae

sneer mento

“rs: disiidere Meine re ADs 66 ie: ratareed test Meroat
assist biberty ce Labial lo, 13s:

“dart aa. of west ekactly corstiiues (6318s yet barn farnintated, Ce
dgeacy, weaver, to incised to Fagard ‘tke. eign 66 eplit 22 2 wager

jah is. sormpat group, “ot Ss Ee

“Bah the eameptlen tu Intaraer'ia tha DAR aadien taleracad
Telaties with.the priacipal-leader of taz JURE 99 aaplained above,

this Ageasy bes na carsest of peading qperuitonal istorest ia.eay of

these srocys sad, Re slated ia thin Ageat;'s bher.ta zou 04:18 Sep-. -
fesnuer 1553, bea ad objection to lavestigali Sone ap prove ont Wl
eclividies og thy Pedsral Duras of Invosigstion,

Htentufylay dita on tis leadare ond wsemabors of the iseidect

olemoat of Algaa 6S, Ad requested is your Istrar cf 31 December 1063, |

“are. Saing essowbied nad will bs dorearded ta you &e veca ap available,
Secorely,

Lawseses R Ticustes
Gsaezal Counsel



AURORE HY

