-— x) — 6 -

TERMINATION SECRECY AGREEMENT
CLASSIFIED SENSITIVE COMPARTMENTED INFORMATION

1. I acknowledge that, by viture of my duties, I have received or been exposed
to classified sensitive compartmented information, the unauthorized disclosure or
negligent handling of which could adversely affect the interests of the United States
Government. I am aware that the unauthorized disclosure of classified information is
prohibited by the Espionage Laws (Title 18, U. S. Code, Sections 792-798) and the In-
ternal Security Act of 1950, Section 19, P. L. 831, (81st Congress) and that a viola-
tion of these laws may subject me to prosecution by the U. S. Government.

2. I hereby reaffirm my pledge that I will never publish or reveal by any means
classified sensitive compartmented information. I agree further that I do not now,
nor will I ever, possess any right, interest, title or claim whatsoever to such infor-
mation. I recognize the full and vested property right of the United States in such
matters.

3. I certify that I have surrendered and no longer have in my possession or
custody any classified compartmented information or material acquired as a result of
this association.

4, I further acknowledge and agree that I have a continuing individual respon-
sibility to the United States Government for the protection of classified sensitive
compartmented information and that the termination from this relationship with my em-
ployer and/or the United States Government does not relieve me of my obligations under
this agreement or any other previously executed Secrecy Agreements. I understand that
I will not be relieved of these obligations except when specifically advised in writing
by the sponsoring activity of the U. S. Government.

S. I understand that this document may be retained by the U. S. Government for
its future use in any manner within the scope of this agreement.

6. I take this obligation freely, without any mental reservation or purpose of
evasion and in the absence of duress.

a. Jaa

30 December 1977

WINES SIGNATURE. BRINTED NAME & SEN (Sou Reverse)

J. Walton Moore ssw Yso “26-283
ret S5A

WITNE! ORGANIZATION
dz

leeene creer SYSTEW/PROJECT ACCESS TERMINATED:

SI/TKH
RETURNTO GIA

FORM ound Use Only «2
si 3968 Be Not Reproduce

