# 104-10521-10019

## Page 1

104-10521-10019

1X-153

2 MAR

Juntabletrat

asreos el cli cucaro Sy Cuase Cecisas)

Dadan dicien

2. 0.1

sanoidos

=276

Ді:

ic= Ci.

211665

Talento Ci.

"!.

i ana tales

acultades

Aredes

== C1:

21-a

Ve.

309,

....

ch

1801

C.n

LECT

$20

e*=c

&'*:

---

## Page 2

So dorare malosagge (1 car 65)

Зi6r-t

frit

C::

1cI,

Tạt

frg

29/C

---

## Page 3

ATTACHMENT B

& Warch 1966

-NAME:

DPOB:

MARITAL STATUS:

BIOGRAPHIC DATA:

OPERATIONAL SUKKARY:

Rison Tonne GUIS Diaz.

22 Sepiagoes 1933. Havana, Cuba

Tate - Daisy asd 2 children

GUIN matriculated at the Universits of Havan

School of Sugar and Agricultural Economy:

during the 1955-56 Academic year.: He fled

Cuba InJury: 1956, as a result of his political

activitles axalast SATISTA, obtaining. costum in

the Costa 'Ricay. E=bassy In Havana, and there.

after proceeding to Costa Rica.: Hollater

entered tre Unitid States at Miaml and évent

ually went to ew York to reside with an uncle

While in New York ho carried on the struggle

agaInet BATISTA.

He was secretary. of. the.

propaganda. ser?1og of the Directonio Revolu

corario (DR) and also director.0f. its

nowspaper "El Coabate".

He then returned to

Cuba:

JOan CASTRO'S forces in the Escambray

as a Cariain in the Robel Army.

After. CASTRO'S

viclory. he Derary Consardan? (MaJor); ranager

o1 an Isad collative tars and Vice. Secretary

o! Probabilal diCEl.

CUlt was first

by

Iranialion missio

wited in

who

, GUIN

the pitpoet

of

bag diasidects naong

high livel Cuban malit

ary pillcera: y Rolando

CIBELA Secades eventually became tovolved in

the: conspira

CUIN win treibed, 1d

and sasurd Sw anteriale by tbe

been no ju contact since

July 1964.

---

## Page 4

DAMAGE POTENTIAL:

GUiN was. bever

met be any Agency staller.

the conspiracy part of the operatios, GOIN'S

However, GOIN

had maay

Cardesas such -de'

fanfied friends with whon he saintained

close relit loos

---

## Page 5

DATE

1961

TRUE NAME

1982'

1968

1968/65

1962.

1062

1963

Bobett Oven

Micalid Long

Dosmond FitzGerald

1963

John Stoni

1069/81 Moatos Sanchor

1963

Robert Kierce

ATTACHMENT С

ALIAS

True Name (k005) 18

true

name to CUBELA

in Hảv aạa

in 1960)

"B11! Thompion"

True Inne (knour 10

true aRno to CURL

1n Havani ln 1954-38)

"Roberto":

"Capt. Divid Harper"

"Dick"

"Junes Clari" - M &

representative

CPFOCUS

"Inho Stevens" • or

posalbly by true nine

"Nicolas Sanson"

"Dr. Keeman"

LOCATION

Mexico C1ty

Parta

Parla

Paris

---

