id 1023-1000 eee :

neces}

i

"25 August 1976

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD 7 .

FROM: Gary M. Breneman
Assistant General Counsel

SUBJECT: Request for Agency Assistance in the Death of John Rosselli

1, Senator Gary W. Hart (D-Colo.) has involved the Senate Select
Committes on Intelligence in the investigation of the murder of John Rosselli
@QWashir.gton Post, 25 August 1976, p. A25, copy attached). In addition, the
Director has met with Hart and stated that the Agency would cooperate in the
investigation of Rosselli's death within the bounds of its charter and its i
statutory charge to protect intelligence sources and methods from unauthorized
disclosure. : :

2. At the request of the Committee, Mr. Tom White, OLC, and the under—
signed met with two homicide detectives from the Dade County sheriff's office
" at 12:30 p.m., 24 August, in the offices of the Committee in the Dirksen
Building. The two detectives were Julio 0. Ojeda and Charles Zatrepalek.
Also present at the meeting were the following individuals: Paul Daly and
= Carlton Burrell of the FBI and Mike Madigan, Rick Inderfurth and Mike Epstien
of the Committee Staff, Present for pa~t of the meeting were Bill Miller, Staff
seeteeeraete Director of the Committee, and Charles Kirkow of the Committee Staff. ?
3. The Agency officers explained that they were there to determine how,
within the Agency's charter, they could provide assistance to the detectives i
in their investigation and to receive their questions and then pursue the answers
within the Agency. The detectives asked for help in the following areas and
their questions break down into thrée basic categories. is

A. First, they would like to know whatever the Agency knows
about certain Cuban nationals, some deceased and some still alive. ~
‘They are as follows:

4, Ramon Don Eestevez Dominquez (deceased by shooting) - born
2 May.1936 or 5 February 1936; reportedly a boat manufacturer
who was able to go in and out of Cuba on a regular basis.

SECRET



ater of Maheu, Rosselli and Shimon, They wanted to know if he had Ly

(Ne
rer
~

“H. Rolando Masferrer Rojas (deceased by bombing) - born
12 January 1918,

ii, Luciano Nieves (deceased by shooting).
Heat
iv. Jose De La Torriente (deceased by shooting).

v. Jose Quintana - born 3 October 1945; reportedly a nephew by
marriage to Rasselli.

vi, Jaoquin ‘Antonio Cortizo ~ born 10 January 1945.

vil, Manola Artimes (the detectives specifically asked where he is
now).

vill, AM/LASH - his identity aud preser-t whereabouts.

ix, What are the names of the three Cubans mentioned in the :
Rosselli testimony? (Two of the three names are in the cesta
9 December 1970 memorandum discussed in paregraph 4 of
this memorandum.)
B. Secondly, they asked for whatever information the Agency could ~
provide on the following individuals whose citizenship is unknown but —

are probably U.S. citizens.

4. Fred Black ~ identified as a lobbyist involved with Bobby Baker;
he reportedly lives in the Watergate Aparirents and is a friend

any connection with the Castro assasSination plots.

Si, Edward Morgan - a D.C. attorney who has reportedly represented
Black, Shimon, Rosselli and Maheu.

_ Si, Joseph Shimon ~ identified in the Senate Select Committee Report.
on Alleged Assassination Plots at page 81 2s "a friend of Rosselli
and Giancana." They wanted to know if he had eny CIA rela~ i
tionship. H

G. Third, they ask a number of general questions which are as.
follows: 5

4. Whe is the Cuban who provided the pera mentioned in the
Senate Sclect Committce Report?



ve t ; i

Si, Who is “b s® and what is the name of the: i-Czstro group
both of which are mentioned on page 89 of the Report?

iii. Did Narvey actually pay Rosselli $2,700 to defray the Cuban
expenses as mentioned on page 84 of the Report?

iv. Why was Rosselli approached instead ‘of Giencena or someone
else?

v. Did the Agency do a background check on Rosselli or Giancana
and, if so, -could they have access to it?

vi. Why was all contact with Rosselli stopped in 19652-0750

vii, Would it be possible for them to talk to the man or men who
served 2s Chief of Station in Miami during 1960 to 1965?

viii. Could they talk to the current Chief of Statica in Miami?

“4x, Would it be possible for the detectives to talk to James P.
O'Connell, a retired senior Office of Security employee?

E
t
-t
H
z
f
'
i
i
i
i
!

x. Does CIA have any evidence that the Cuban Intelligence Service
oa yoay have been involved in Rosselli's death or that Cuban agents
Ee were in the Miami area at the time of his death? .

4, Rick Inderfurth presented the undersigned with two classified meino~

yanda and stated he thought they shou'd be declassified and made available to
the detectives. One is a 9 December 1970 memorandum to the DCI from the

- Director of Security, Subj: "ROSSELLI, Johnny." The second is a blind memo~f

randum dated 9 August 1976, Subj: "Johnny Rosselli.” Copies ofboth are “* |
attached. : oo x

S. The undersigned made absolutely no commitments with respect to any

of the requests except to the one relating to interviewing the current COS Miami
andI said no to it. The detectives will be in town until Seturday and cen be

reached 2! their motel, Tel. 521-1900, Room 610. Following that they can be
xeached at the sheriff's office in Miami at (305) 547-7456.

oa LR meneame, J

Gary M. ~y 3

~

