# 104-10163-10136

## Page 1

104-10163-10136

TO

SENDER WILL CHECK CL SIPICATION TON AND BOTTOM

CNCLASSIFIED

1 CONFIDENTIAL

- SECRET

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP

NAME AND ADORESS

DATE

INITIALS

SAS/ESOC

Vaug 13:K12

SAs/d,/Kale

Sung

fies

ACTION

APPROVAL

CONCUARENCE

DIRECT REPLY

DISPATCH

FILE

INFORMLATION

PREPARE REPLY

RECOMMENDATION

RETURN

SIGNATURE

METURN TO CIA

Hostruam Ven Only

Do lial Reproduce

FOLD HERE TO RETURN TO BENOER

PROM MAME, ADEMENT AMD PHONE 10 M

UXGLASSIPIED

noTe 237 Ma previes etions

GATH

SECRET

(40)

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SEGHET

Formes" Contacte Basana Staton

able personil courage, poc: security and common sense, In sy rind te

so the Ideal type of Latia Aerican agent.

It will be

a real less to

the "Agency 1f ve lose sizit or contact vich adolfo.

I bave set few bea

more dedicatod and moro loyal.

5.

271164

ANFAR -3.

Gecruited by lipar-i and 8o

close

wach other that ve raternd to tren as tre

"hold Just Twins."

Ramon is in tro shippire business in Favara 1o1 eventilig had so

Ment.

in lon% ila hore, care, furalshiais, etc.

n19 !im is Doi

ладило со непі ви со вісагатий, алі І кате гесоголіе Р 2о в

Nicarague deok (ri.l

_OPe hay nil the jualialog agentsed e

Adolfo ant ITATO (see abomy ersent lose he tas rever been an inericas

citizen.

He speaks excellent Erallah. E: 1s cedicated, coumesoss and

08s ancious to raintain contact wich the igency. it wil be our loos

18 chia 1a Dot dose.

25%22

t.

FerrErA Le BANKRE- AMCLATTLA-1.

Wife: Clara.

Berker 1s "

Cubas-Ane "ican.

Ex-Cantain In the U,j.Á.F. See PIQ Esi 20: 10r fail

bio data. I recruitod jarter la 1957, end he serves leishnally 138'1

no had to aniltrate bir sono:lna 1a 1960. Ho rocruires a mnder of

Mumble 95160 f0r. the Statlon (InClUdLaS ANCLATIR-S, Mich don) and

had an amsing encyclondie inowledee of cuben persons, erests nod con-

tacta In all unlie of 115e.

He wis a boxlry rasager and koew intlately

m21 Cubar personalities engaged in the sporting Induatry. Be bad a cuppy-

dog logalty so a1s cane offscore and to ta Agency, His blarit veRseas

me his laci of discretion, Ho ma such a loyal Anaricas (arily 1I

not sochnicaliy) that he vould fight as the drop of a but 1f unyone cast

aspersions on the United states or 1ts Icaders.

In the arzampere of

Gastro'a Cuon I migne any chat that vas quite often.

process of helping hin recover his lose Amuricen citizenshio,

"bea the

Station reopene I would corninly reco-mend that so contiaue to 1a15ta19

contact with tartar.

Il notring olse so rould mao a vonderfil leg yan

for the Chief of Station, His wite is an attractivo juian zul lo 18 bi

lingual sid sa beiligerentig "American" as he

1s.

Farker, by locks an

by langurre, could puss elther as an Aperican or a Saber - a gusine

masat 1t' bo could he laught to minergo hio Amerionio.

.?.

fir a wrIsonoi la Cuba as a romule of the 1944 of ipril levasies).

Manojo In vorsine 1oi 11 snu 10 fland, and I presuso ve have fail blo

date on sus jaraio'o (asily owned,

along wich Eeputl1: Stoel, "a big

Bon p.ant to nirse wich was natioralded by the dossro ruzine (el.

RaELIlars En Assis, 3.1,1, Manolo has a brother, baniaof so would

also be worth culestating. Through ile oulness an lailly corection

Manolo know a great sure people of operational 1at0ress.

One ct &la

friende war DeVIA SALVATOR, alchouph Manolo did no% BRaTe SALTAJOR'S

go11.1001 9h119 19740082698

fo jaciato

*rAporter 0s

1 1978-

onceustared arone iat".

SECRET

J/BR

---

