# 104-10110-10026

## Page 1

104-10110-10026

TERMINATION SECRECY AGREEMENT

CLASSIFIED SENSITIVE COMPARTMENTED INFORMATION

1. I acknowledge that, by virtua

of my duties, I have received or been exposed

to classified sensitive compartmented information, the unauthorized disclosure or

negligent handling of which could adversely affect the interests of the United States

Government. I am aware that the unauthorized disclosure of classified information is

prohibited by the Espionage Laws (Title 18, U. S. Code, Sections 792-798) and the In-

tion of these lams day sybject me to prosecution by the Und

ternal Security Act of 1950, Section 19, P. L. 831, (81st Congress) and that a viola-

2.

I hereby reaftim my pledge that I will never publish or reveal by any means

classified sensitive compartmented information.

nor will I ever,-possess any right, interest, title or claim whatsoever to such infor-

mation.

I recognize the full and vested property right of the United States in such

matters.:

I certify that I have

Surrendered.

and

no/longer have in my possession OT

custody any classified compartmented information or material acquired as a result of

this association.

4. I further acknowledge and agree that I have a continuing individual respon-

compart no tomat, sates that the t in the on ore to seCtion tie sensity en-

ployer and/or the United States Government does not relieve me of my obligations under

this agreement or any other previously executed Secrecy Agreements. 1 understand that

I will not be relieved of these obligations except when specifically advised in writing

by the sponsoring activity of the U. S. Government.

its future use

I understand that this document may be retained by the U. S. Government for

in any manner within the scope of this agreement.

6. I take this obligation freely,

without any mental reservation of purpose of

evasion and in the absence.of duress

SIGNATURE

DATE

30 Du 1977

WITNESS' SIGNATURE

A. Sprender

Collea

WITNESS' PRINTED NAME

/s

for

COMPARTMENTED SYSTEM/PROJECT ACCESS TERMINATED:

SI

PRINTED NAME & SSN (See Reverse)

069-2413138

Charlotte Bustos-Videla

ORGANIZATION

CIA/ DDO/LA

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

FORM 3968

9077

---

## Page 2

The Privacy Act, Public Law 93-579, requires that

Federal Agencies inform individuals when they are asked to

provide their Social Security Account Number (SSN) whether

the disclosure is mandatory or voluntary, by what authority

such number is solicited, and what uses will be made of the

SSN. Disclosure by you of your SSN is voluntary.

The

authority for this solicitation is Executive Order 9397.

The SSN is used as

an identifier in removing your authorized

access to classified information.

Failure to provide this

SSN may delay the processing required in accessing authority

removal.

---

