# 104-10177-10073

## Page 1

104-10177-10073

SECRET

1M m1* 846183+081

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

22-3722

FROM.

RIA

pen seconD

rocures mura: 41411-01379

DOCUMEAT DATE

TO

ROOM

NO.

ma ten darien

DATE

804+004 8

ATAH.AA3

walnele

um, land

Nir

ei-i/sie, lic

• 8.

elis

FILETITLE

Politial det cats

201-455 L6le7

pilot h

16001

*0530

RIFI

SECRET

---

## Page 2

14-00000

.:.

z/pJ

16-3

From:

Repers No 10943379 Local File No:

Number of pages: 1

Number of enolmures:

Report made be Eleanor D. Plasler/edp

Approved by: Willand Co Curtial

Distribution:

B cop to:

Orally to:

Habana

-(Caracas? 16-17.

2

- Flles

Source cryptonym: LISSE

Source, operational data, and comments

References:

SUBJECT!

'Cuban Political Situation

COMMENT A

IDuSt recelved the Information In the attached roport from

INISTORTEGA Ortoga, Cuban newspaperran and exile so arrived

In toxico City from Costa Rica

on 23. February

and lurt for

Lead the waste daze ORtiA told Liver that he was colne to

lastington to contact CANCIA Tunon (Ins) and others to learn

what la to happon, ORIEdA sald that Oscar DE LA TORRa, the

Cuban Ambassador, who has boon hie frian. for & long time,

asked hin not to call at the Embasgy during tho day for the

roason mantionad in the report.

ORIGGA wont to see hin bor

foro leaving for Manle

Clasgification

198188, 51-59

' IS COFY,

19-9-5

---

## Page 3

FIELD INFORMATION REPORT

MALUATION DE SOURCE

(Appliad to

(Appbed so capestad er laraticlantip

1: Cobrand to 61999 Marpental all Miatt sacres

2. Probablo que. . Possible tree. & doobilal

§ Probably

«tassed to ydros.

intaresary. Based to crigoral cratesent

S-S-C-R-I-T

COUNTRY

Cuba/venezuela, toxico

SUBJECT Cuban Political Situation

• REFORI NO. .

DATE OF REPORT

NO. OF PAGES

REFERENCES

Chi8l7379

12 March 1958

DATE OF

INFO.

28 February 1958 (6-3

DATE ACC. Paxico, Perico City (3 March 258)

SOURCE EVALUATONS ARE DEFINITIVE: APPRAISAl OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE. NOTE FOREGOING EXPLANATION.

SOURCE:

Person with contacts anong Caribbean revolutloniries (B); from

& Cuban exile (F) • Agoraisal of Cortants 30-

rod allitary Junta in Cuba saa strike da Cess days I'

1. Do Accordine to OscarXa LA TORS, Cubal Lubassilor la lexico, Ma 18

bein batched coistantly de Posidon: inT:saas men Inside

DS LA SURE Said trat Cl210%2iz Portuonio, Culan

reprosentativo at tho United Mitionse his warusted with EntISt

ani could no ioner dorand him bolors tin Unltad States Stato

Departmont, IS LA TORiC adied that silIsts had plannod to buj

arms from Coschoslovakiag, but that ho hau mile him change his

mind, The imbassador considors TISA's position untenable.

$o

ManueltuRauriA, Fidel CASTSO Rus' candidate for tba Cuban Fres1-

1s in caracas trrii

1S:0 from the jenezuelan furt

to sotin aras anil ammunition jor

Juarca Content.

the junta is probabir initing to-Ben th

Usults or BATISTA's offensive against Fidel CASTRU,: nopin

BATISTA ViLl k111 him.

301-445667

S-3-R-F-*

DISTRIBUTION

Babana

Caracas.

16-17

3/pd

---

