# 104-10180-10109

## Page 1

104-10180-10109

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

OUTIN

TOM

JiNIAVI

ACTION

INFOR

DDP, 100», soo 9'6, RI/AN, We/sa 12, su 8, VR.

D0, CA 2, CA/PEG, CA/PROP, CA/O 4, 61/009, Co/IeZ,

RETURNTO CIA

F1/INT

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

CT.ÜRC T 1000447

1 SEP 8326Z 64 TN 78763

DoRi iNFO VACY LANT EARR CITE WAVE 1597

INTEL TYPIC

SUPDATA: AMFAST-6 FROM PEPE GATILLO ON 9 SEPT 64.

RID: INDEX. FILED: 18/$844Z

REPORT CLASS CONFIDENTIAL CONTROLLED DISSEM

LULA

• SUEJECTS PLANS OF MANUEL RAY RIVERO, LEADER OF JURE, TO DEPART

FROM MIAMI FOR AN UNIDENTIFIED LOCATION

Di 18 & SIPT 64

FIDA:. UNITED STATES, MIAMI (9 SEPT 64) UFG 5827

SOURCE:: A MEMUER OF A GROUP OF CUBAN EMIGRES TRAINED IN THE

TECHMIQUES OF INFORMATION COLLECTION. THE GROUP HAS PROVIDED

• SPFUL PEPORTS FOR AJOUT THREE YEARS, THIS INFORMATION WAS

TAILED IRON! JUSE GARCIA VALDEZ, AKA "PEPE CATILLO".

iN COMMENT.

AR-

02

WH/ REG

Tos 00-3151 0679-65

L TROUTINE

PRiORITY

BASED ON

UrG 5827

DATE DISTRIBUTED

• PROSEC

10 SEPTEMBER 1964

(AMFAST / 6

08032

LIAISON

SECRET

49-43047 89

DACLASBIRICAIION

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy No

03

VIBR

---

## Page 2

14-00009

CCNTRELLOD BESSON

CONFIDENTIAL

COUNTIN

DATE OF

INFO.

CENTRAL INTELLIO INCE AGENCY

Intelligence Information Cable

@ SEPTEMBER 196%

- SUVECT

"BANS OF DURE LEAGLE MANUEL SAY RIVERO TO DEPART MIAMI

'OR AN UNDISCROSEO LOCATION

TOCS 08-315100679-64

DISTR. 10 SEPTEMBER 196%

PLACE 1

DATE ACQ.

SOURCE

ANO

APRASAL

UNITCO STATES, MIAMI (9 SCOTEMBER 1964)

REP

IN 78763

FIELD REPORT NO. UrG 5827

A GROUP OF CUBAN EMIGRES TRAINEE IN THE PECMMIQUES OF INFORMATION

COLLECTION.

THE GROUP LAS DROVICCO USEFUL REPORTS FOR ABOUT TARCE

rtars.

THIS INFORMATIOS NAS OBTAIDEO FROM JOSE GARCIA VALDEZ,

ANd "PEPE CATILLO".

1. ON 9 SEPT "64 JOSE GARCIA VALDEZ, AKA "PEPE GATILLO",

SALO THAT MANUEL RAY RIVERO, LEADER OF THE JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA

LENNA FUURE, CUSAN REVOLUTICNARY JENTA), HAD ASKED GARCIA TO TAKE

RAY, PHUTOGRAPHER ANDREW ST. GEORGE, AND MIRTA SORRAS CN A TRIP

TO AN INSFECIFIEO DESTINATION.

2. THE GROID IS TO DEPART AT ISLE ON I0 SEPT IN A LATAMARAN,

FE DISTRATION CT-IZEED, WHICH BELONGS TO JURE AND WHICH IS NOW AT THE

INTIRIATIONAL MARINE DOCKS SEING FLELED AND PREPARED FOR THE TRIP.

DO FIELD DISSEM: CINELANT, CINCSO, COMKWESTFOR, MIAMI REPS

"i STATE, Fil, CUSTOMS, LANS, FORDER PATROL, AND USCG.

(END OF MESSAGE)

CONFIDENTIAL

CONTROLLED DISSEM

STATE/TAR DUA ASHY/ACSI

NAVE AIR SOS SECELS NSA NIC AIO USIA OCI ONE OER ORA DOFBI

SOSSES PAYROL

---

