# 104-10100-10207

## Page 1

104-10100-10207

,.""

it. I. BEAUBIEN

7454

14 OCT 63

AS BELO!

dAJA MESSAGE TOXRODE

GLASSIFIED MESSAGT

SCRET

1 8 BCT 53 24

ROUTI SE

;..

DIATE LOND

BOUTINE:

BRUN

MONT

INFO

CITE DIR

99

75476

LOP 20131

VIXN

FRAN

PBBAND

24

NEAR BAST - AFRICA BELLI

1. ALGERIA-MOROCCO: MOROCCO BE 3 KITINT ON RHABALITINO

ITS

PRESENCE IN BORDEE ARTA BITTEN TINOUP AND COLO BICHAR

CLAI

VEY BOTE RABAT AND ALGIERS, ALTHOUGH DOTH BIDES APPARETLY

WENT TO AVOID ALLOUS WA:

//ACCORDING TO GIN WITANT, KING HACAN'S PINOIL MILIT AD

VISER, ADDITICAL MCICOGAN THOOPS ARE MOVITO SUVATO POSITION VEICH

WERR HELD BY ALGERIANS DURING CLASHES ON B OCT, KETTANI IEPOITIDLT

ASSERTED ON 10 OCT, "UB WILL THION THIDI OUT, AND WE WILL FIGHT

ALGERIANS MORE EFFECTIVELY THAN FRENCH EVIE DID. */ /

2/gД

BEN BELI! SAS ISOLATED BERBER DISSTDINTS IF THE KABYLIE, BUT

HR DOBS NOT CONTROL COUNTRYSIDE THIE. MOREOVER, EVEN BEFORE

CLASKES WITH MOROCCO, BERDR REVOLT HAD AGGRAVATED HIS DIIFICULTIES

COURE.

3226. 4060

RETRODGCTION BY C

fail eter

19/ PHE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

COINERTiCATING

ICER

1502

---

## Page 2

08J i

0I NO INDEX

CLASEIFIED ME

2X10131

TING

5

CFERRED

INFO

CITE DIR

75478

WITH MILIT. HE IS URINELY TO VANT ENTERIVE ACTION ALONE MOROCCAN

BOEDER WITLE ELS CONTROL OVER MILIT IN BO BRAT. ' I: P

TOS MI8 PART, HASHAN'S MORE ASBIATIVE POSTURE SURGISTO THAT

I 1B MILLINO TO SXPLOTS DITTICULTIDS ON BERATULA, MIE NATURAL

RIVAL, IN UNDERITVINE LATTER'S INTERIAL PONITION. MIN MILITANCY

HAS ALSO STRENGTANNED ITE ONY PONTTION INNINE MOROCCO, IS ME

LITTLE TO CAIN, NOMIVER, TOON BETH PRANED AN AGGRESSI

3, ADD IT

SERAS UNLIKELY THAT HE TOULD SKER A DECISIVE CONFICITATION DELIBETELY.

2. COMMUNIET CHINA - ALGERIAN COMUNIRT CHINA DAN OUPERED

ALGERIA A $50 MILLION LONG TURN INTRY-FREE CHIDIT FOR AB TIT

UNDISCLOBID UBIS, SINCE IOS0 CHINIBI HAVE BADE CITTE TO ALGERIANS

TOMISING AT LUST $13.S MILLIC TO SUPPORT ALGERIAN HITTO ALIST

TAIT ACTIVITY. UNAILE TO MATCE IN SCOPE UBBR'S RECKIT $100 ILLION

CREDIT TO ALGERIA, PIPING MAY I HAVE INCLUDED SOIR CASE IN ITS

NK OFFER--IT HAS IN SIMILAR ARRANGNINTS WITH OTHER AFRICAN COUN

TRIES. USSR HAS AVOIDED SUCH A PRACTICE IN ITS AID PROGRAIS. 8OMS

INDICATIONS CLICOMS INTEL. FUN IN ALGERIAN PETROLEON.

COLGCINETING OFFICERS

BICRET:

centrischestion

FERONICTOR BY DINCTRA; THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITEE.

AUTWINTICATING

Copy Mo

---

## Page 3

013 :

CLASSIRIED MESSACL

SICKET

184

ROUTiNG

41

5

: RILE NO.

LIfLANtU

PrinTING

3. USSE-ALARIA: NO MILIT AID AGRAKINT HAS BEEN ANNOUNCED

BY ALGERYA OR THE U838 BUT SOME ARRANCISGUT YOR MATERNE DAY SAVE

BEKK MADE DURING DEP HIN I BOUNDIENNK'S RICHIT VISIT TO MOSCON.

SOME 450 ALGERIANS ALE NOU NICEIVIIG MILIT TRAINIG IN SOVIET

BLOC AND NOSCOW MAY RIGAED PRESHIT IMPIOVED STATE O RITATION AB

PROVIDING A GOOD OPPORTUMITY TO BIGIN SUPPLIING ALGERIA VIT

MODERN EQUIPIT.

A. SOMAIIIEPURLIC - UNBE: //SOMALI GOUT ON 10 OCT DICIDID

TO ACCIPT A $28 MILLION SOVIIT OFTIR CY MILIT ASSISTANCE, ACCORDING

TO A FIGA SOMALI OPTICIAL, AND HOPES THIS WILL HOT HURT PROSPECTS

FOR RECEIVING SUCH AID FIO FI VEET.

JUST SHORE IIIIO AT WICH THIS DICISION WAS MADE, PRIMIN

ARDIRASCID SAID THAT MIS COVT WOULD USE SOVIFT INITRUCTORS FOR A

SHORT WHILE AID WOULD DEPEND ON IGIFT FOR MAJOR TRAIIING AND

TECHNICIAL ADVICE. ABDIRASCID SAID THAT KK HAD REJECTED CHINESE

ASSISTAICE.

THE THE EXPAR

* THAT WEST WOULD CONDUCT A MAJOR

MILIT ASSISTANCE PROGRAM SIMULTANSOUSLY WITH THE BLOC. DISPITE

Al: 195101

61.

married anill

BE CLET

t N: + 1619-688195

HEFE DUCTION BY OTHIS THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITED

A UTI

---

## Page 4

LiMiT !

LI MEAN

MEDA

storer

CA FIL B

DEFERRIO

ROUTINE:

IC

i-ment too

INFO

CITE DilE

75476

SOMALI MOPES, GERIAN AND ITALIAN MILIT AID PLANS ARE LIKELY TO BE

ADVERS ELY ATTECTED, ROME OFFICIALS RACINTLY TOLD VIBITINO ROMALI

PRES THAT ANY DRAL VITA SOVIETO MOULD CONPICMLRE SOMALIANA CRANCES

OR RECURIO BXCHITICAIT VESTEN MOLIS ABSENCE, AN TAT TELLS,

VRICH BAD TENTATIVELY APPROVID A 83 MILLION THRER-TRAR PROGRAM,

VOTLD TAKE SUCH A SONALI DICISION "HERIOUBLY. " DONN IS KHOUN

TO BE OPPOSED TO EXTEDIIG AID IN DOGADIACIO AACCEPTS ANY CONUNIET

MILITARY ASSISTANCE. 1/

5. CORGO: ADOULA GOVT IS FACING GHOWING OPPOBITION FROM

CONGOLESE LABC? LEADERS.

THE LEADERS OF FOUR UNIONS, INCLUDING TURKE LANGET, STATE

THAT THET WILL HOT SIT ON PLANNED SPICIAL COMTESION TO DRAFT A

NEM CONCO COMETITUTION UNLESS COVT IS CRANCED. UNIONS ARE AR

PARENTLY WILLING THAT PRES RASAVUBU OR PRETER ADOULA, OR BOTH,

REMAIN, IF THE REST OF CABINET IS DISKISSED.

USUALI! RELIABLE SOURCE REPORTS THAT UNIONS ARE NOT CONSIDERING

A GENEZ! TUTE ONOW THEIR DEMANDS. BUT NOTES THAT THSIR

ATTITUDES ARE DINING

ThE UNIONS ARK DEIONSTRATING GRATER UNITY

0280129WME

GETICERS

Esctidea fan autoras:

SECRET

MA.21

-HAS tHiS ISSUiNG OrfICE IS PROHIBITEO

---

## Page 5

Out :

•ASSINED MES

SACRET

GRAINTY

FOURNG:

: 5.1

CITE DIR

75476

AND BOUNCE BELINVES THAT SITUATION COULD CHAIGE RAPIDLT. LABOR LEADERS

HAVE SAID THIN RAIL AND FILL IS AS FID UP WITH THE GOVT AS IT HAS

WIT PAILINNIT, WHICH KAVO DISCHIE ON 89 EPIT.

FRIST ATD BY RAMPANT INFLATION, FOOD SHOEDIGES, AND VIKA

PLOTISIT, UNTONS HAVE LONG CALLED FOR ICON RETORNS AND RAMOVAL OF

HIGH LIVING, INCOKPETINT AND CORRUP CABINET MINISTERS. A GAUKRAL

STRIKE OVER CIVIL SEIVICE SALARIES VAS OULY NARROULE AVERTIL

IN LATE AUGUST: AND ANTONVIDE STRIKE OF TRACHERS OVER NONPAYIENT

OF SALARIES RIGIN ON Y OCT. (CONE)

6. KEIYA: TENSIONS HAS INCREASED AS COMBE UENCE OF THE

TAILURE OS LONDON CONSTITUTIONAL TALES TO REACH AGREEMETT DURING

THEIR FILET TO WE-.

THY KAYAN OPFOSITICN PANTY SUSPICTS THAT WITHIN A PEN DAYS

BRITAIN VIAL IMPOSE A SOLUTTON THAT "ILL WRANKN THE DOSITION C THE

MT HORITY TRIBES. THRY BELIEVE THAT COLONIAL SECRETARY SANDYS WILL

MEET PRIME MINISTER KRIYATE & DEANDS TO LASE PROCEDURES FOR AND

ING THE CONSTITUTION AND TO RHANT MORE AUTHORITY OVER POLICE AND

CIVIL AUTHORITE TO THE CUCINAL GOVERNAXIT.

CITIGERS

FERDOUC

THANATHE: ISSUING OFFCE IS PROMIBITED

Copy N

---

## Page 6

ORIG :

UNIT. :

EV.

hot)

D 1E

O PC ANDEX

t....

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

10

INFO

CHE DAR 75476

ALARMID OPPOSITION LNGIBLATORS IN MINOBI REBOLVID OH O OCT

TO PORM TABIR REGIONS INTO A AMPARATE STATE, BUT MAYE ALICE 808-

PENDED ACTION LUKR

SSURE PROL MET MORE TO LODOR. ALADONGE

THEY PROBABLS LACE TEE

STRENOTA TO ACTUA

ANCIS, THEN LADIES HOPE

THE THREAT VILL CATE TERM LABT MINUTE CONCESSIONS.

BRITISH AUTBORITTES HAVE DUCEN PRICAUTIQIANX RECURTTY MASURES

AND THE KENYA GOVERHNENT IS CONFIDENT IT CAN HANDLE ANT DISTUHANCES.

SPECIAL POLICE HAVE BEEN DEPLOTE IN THE POTEMTIATII EXPLOSIYE

RIFT VAILRY REGION AND AFRICAF TEO0F6 ARE ON ALKAT. (CONT)

IRAG

/ REPORTE PERSIST OP COUP LOTTING BY ANTI-

BAATE POLIT AND MILIT ELLENTS. HI GOUT MEANS ALERT AX

PROBABLY BAS PENITRATID THE POLITICAL GROUPINGS, WHOSE ACTIVITEES

IT HAS ANVERELY MASSE AC SINCID. MILITAN NISSIDKETS HAY

HAVE GRIATER PRENDOM ON ACTION, BUT THRIR CAPABILITIES HAVE BEEN

WEAKENED ET THE INFUSION OF FAATH PARTY NOBERS INTO THE OFFICKE

CORPS. " I

* MISSAGE

GIFICERS

Dittoo Dukharten

fastersed 15079 6090

w122229

47100

---

