# 104-10185-10047

## Page 1

104-10185-10047

DISPATCH

TOP SECRET

PROCESSiNG

AT110%

TO

Chief of Station, Lusembours.

EXFO

mn Her invite

cant pad a:

OTTING TIS DISA

! CAN SON LAYUNG

ROMa

Chief. KUTUBE/D

SUBJECT

LAURICLE

ZERLELELOELIN

ACTION PIQUIARN REFERENTS

Action Required: Ae indieated below

Referenco: DIR 43259

Subcagornt eo Babney'a discusaion of QJWIN Mili COS; Lukembourg

on 17 April 1961,. Headquarters indicated to fabney that OfV/iN'e move lo Leopoldo

mlle might have to be deferred. Accordingly. Rabaay told ONWIN on 2 May chas

there mighs well be a long delay ln moving him lo Leopoldville fecaine of need for

hlm in Europe..

Following Rabney's relura to Headquarters, it was decided per

reference to keep QJWIN un Europe at least nix months linger aa & KUTUBE/D

The reasons los this decimon are simply that the pressures for

certala types of KUTUBE/ D operations are increasing and that &JWIN in one of

our vory lew assets who can deal with the kiads of persons we are seeking. The

following paragraphe will provide you with làe Information you need at present for

contact with him.

2.

Although the contract signed by CIWIN Is for Leopoldvlio, we regard

Is as valid for continued work ln Durope or elsenhere. This le the usual type of

contract for forelga agents, and we are providing you herein only the specilica

applicable to the adminiatration of QJWIN: His salary in $7, 200 per annum (please

pay him $600 in cash at the end of each ronth). He will be adranced or reimbursed

travel expenses for authorised operational travel. He will be entitled to per diem

in lies of aubaimence in the cource of all iravel performed for us. He will be ad-

vanced or reimbursed funds for secessary operational expenses including. bat nos

limited to, entertainment and the purchase of information.

The contract is effee-

tive l March 1961 for one year unless sooner terminated by ODYOKE (a) by 60 egya

notice to QIWIN, es (b) without prior notice in the event of a breach of the contrac:

by QJWIN's volation of security or by his otherwise senderlog himsell unavailable

for acceptable service. The contract may be extended upon notice from ODYOKE.

3.

QJWIN'a salary and expenses should be charged as previously to

KUTUBE/D, ciling the Cost Center preriously provided to you. Regarding SWINe

JATE TRES

7 June 1961

DISFATON SIMEO QUO SCRIPT

DATI SORTE

(ORDES RESTRINCE TO

TOP

SECRET

DEFICE

EL/ D/Ope

RETURN TO CLA

Background Use Only

Do Not Peproduce

OFIGINATING

nas:

‚EN?

1652

TITSNIME

siod

---

## Page 2

)

DEMAICH MISSOR ANO IN SECR

CONTINUATION OF

CLASSICATC

LiC:

DISPATCH

TOP. ' SECRET

accountingà los travel mid operational funda, we do nol wish io hold him to a rigid

accounting for every cent for one reason.

• this would entail his making detailed

¡nancial nores no he moves about, In iloell à potential breach of security). It will

milice ll he provides you with wantever nupporting documents are normally avall.

able to him (nuch nu hotel billi), il he given you a general accounting for the une

of lunde, and if you are entisfied that the funds were uned properly. Our expert.

ences with him no lar bare próvided no indicatione oi rivado ol fasca.

During the discuasion with OIWIN on 2 May, he raised two problems

in the event al postponement of bia move to ¿copoldville:

=.

When it'le decided to move him, he would appreciate out timing

the more, Il possiblo, to ecable his children to completo their then current school

term in Luxembourg and to roguter for the next following term in Leopolaville.

Please inform kim ¿hal inte dentre will be five the fullest possible condideratioi.

b. I he is to remain in Earope for any length o! time at bur behest.

as he now will per reference, he should move out of Luxembourg with his family.

As he correctly pointed out, he has no cover job, now has a good salary, in known

to the Gendarmerie in Luxembourg, and he foresees difficulty in explaining his

work, source of income, declaration of income lan, etc. We agree with his view

point, and this problem'la under active consideration. He cannot, of course, movuln

to Belgium with a sentence hanging over his head there. We are reluctant to move

him to France nince he was once convicted there, and application for a residence

permit would remalt in a police files check with possible resultant and undesirablo

police attention is him. Farthermore, since & good deal of his search activity has

taken place and wil take place in France, we lar prefer to have him reside else-

where. Switzerland might be a possibility (except for tight police cortrola), but

Germany appesta to be a better possibility. I QJWIN does move to Leopoldville

at the end o! this year, he can probably survive the period in Luxembourg. II the

move la to be postpmed beyond the end of this year - and we shall let you know an

moon as thie ly decided - he should be relocated. In the meantime, please discuss

the above possibilitien with him and let us know his ideas on residence other than

Luxembourg and on possible cover for his residence elsewhere.

5.

Daring April 1961, QJWIN spotted nome candidates in France. Two

or threa of these will have to te revisited by him for a second look at them, and to

obtain data which he was not able to obtain during the first contact without arousing

maspicion on their part.

We shall inform you and send pertinent details (by dispaich

11 time permits) when we desire that this be done. In the meantime, please inform

OJWIN that the need for his recontacting theme people without undue delay in recog-

nined and is on the front burner.

6.

With regard to funding QJWIN, it in requested that he be given his

pay, travel money, operational money, and any other necessary funds in cash

caring persopal contacte only. (We were disturbed to note in the refort of his

LCFLUTTER examination his statement that money was deposited to the Banque

Interationale for him by the American Embassy.

The deposit was putsuan: to a

roquest from Leopoldville, but tae method of deposit was counter to the maximum

security we are trying to apply to our use of QJWIN.).

7.

It lo essential that froro now on all traffic be handled as follows:

8. Cables to be alagged RYDAT ZRRIFLE only. (QJWIN la silli the

cryptonym for the person and ahould be used in referring to him, but the slugging

must be as stated above to incure maximum security. )

b. Dispatchos to Headquartera are lo be sent to KUTUBE/D only.

in the original and one copy only, stamped TOP SECRET LAURICLE The die-

paChes are to be seat in sealed envelopes marked TOP SECRET, LAUFICLE.

ZRRIFLE and further marked as follows:

---

## Page 3

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

Top EscheT

DISPATON SIMENT ANO ANACROR

OLLW 73Y

Attentions:

Chief, KUTUBE/D

To be opened by Daniel ah. PRESLAN baly.

One copy of each Station di patch or emble may be retained by COS. but it la requessed

that the llo be EYES ONLY loX COS and thai all copies o1 all previena traffic notes.

•i€., •m QININ be included la chu

one tile.

c. Dispatches from Headquartars mll Do sont in the originnl only in

a senled envelope markod "To be opened by Chief al Stallon only.' Every attempt

WIll be hado to communicate by dispaich rather lhan cable, althoigh some cable

tallie will be mavoidable.

A. Necesary Headquarters cooridnalion on the traffic will be under-

taken by Chiel. KUTUBE/D with Chies, HE.

8.

I is extremely Important that the accuracy and completenest of te

roporting on OJ'IN's eliorta be double-checked. We note, for example, that in

OLLA-1232 the name of BASSI's dam (INTERGLOBO) was not included and that the

addsese al the woman mentioned la paragrapà 3 is via Taini, not via Taiml.

9.

In summary, apecific actious reguired by thia dispatch are:

•. Moubly salary to CIVIN (paragrapa 2)

D. intorining him so paragraph do sus-paragrapa a.

e. Chratning his idess on a possible relocation por paragrapa t

oub-paragrapa b.

d. Isorming hiss por tha last sentence 0-a1agron 5.

•. Handling of pasi and future irallie per paragrant 7.

10.

Please send a dispaich to KUTUBE/D with a report al each comtact

with OJIN. We shall sry not to burden you wis too many contacte. Ap ter the

contact for the parposes of s. tara d. la paragraph 9 above, the next out inis

probably be to brles him 10% a trip lo France. Durlag the contact for the purpose

of paragraph 9, please aal him for any receipto, hotel bille, ese., for the travel

and operstional money given to him during his April travela 1u Frasce and forward

these to KUTUBE/ D.

END OF DISPATCH

Distribution:

1- COS, Larambourg

---

