104-10192-10019)

ft [Pl

1 Hovenber 1960
ENORANICM FOR THE RZCORD
SUBJECT: Meeting vith Mr. Devine (Departzent of State)l Novexber 1960,
in ny Office,

1. NOTE: This morning Col. Mallard requeoted advice ca vbat to tall
Kr. Devine concerning the anticipates visit of Hiro Cardona to the Depmme-
ment of State. It was thought best to uve this opportunity to orief Hr.

Devine: on cur recent flexible policy vio a vis the YRD apd other groups.
Thus, Hr. ited for @ meeting in wuich the undersigned, Col.

ollard end ke participated.

f 2
2, I cutlined briefly our current operational policy i.e. our deal-
ings with the PRO epi with grougs outside the FRD as well, We mentioned. E iz
thst wo bed not elloved FED representatives to com to Weshington and lotuy
in babalf of their orgenizationsy on toe other band many individuals and
groups in opposition to the FRD were engaging hesvily in such lobuying
netivities, Thue perheps a scmsynat wabalanced picture bao been painted
of the Frente ond msy Leve even taken bold. In view of this consideration.
wight be givers to have tie PRD send a represcntative to Washington vbose
Primary jovd vould be to make comtacts with the OAS end secondarily to
articulate ~ vis avis U.S. Government officials - the FRO policies.

3. The foregoing, I said, wis called to mind by Col, Mallard's
@igetion to.pe on hov to handle the projected Hiro's visit to Washington.
It vas zy peramnal opinion that, should Miro inquire about the Bender
Group, the Department night indicate in e non-pssive way its avereness of
tke groups sbould Miro not mention. the group perhaps @ way could be found
to tall Miro that for mtters whieh could not be handled by the Departrent,
he undoubtedly had already his aw contacts which be will find satisfactory.

4. ‘The discussion di Miro led tos further exemination of the HRP
wbieu 1a very close to Hiro. J said that I wis punzled about the MRP
political posture; I bad a wumber of discussicns with IMP representatives
in tho U.S., bad received ite platform but hed not boen able to sake up
wy wind woether cr not - fron.a long range vievpaint « the HRP goals wre
compatible with U.S. self intereats. On onc hand ~ and I referred here,
to 8 comment kr. Devine had mde previously - important U.S. buuiness
people would not give the MRP “a place in cells” on the other iioml, people
like Sanches Arango, fojas, Figures erd others cecm to feel that tuts

cla
este only
Bete wee


a

croup vould present us with o long soucst solution to the problen. I
gingly did not knov what to think and woaiered vrat Kr. Devine's views

were.

5. Following this ¢xanina' of te MP, I raised the theoretical
question wbether or not the tim: aizat cont in the near future for the
U.S. to cetertsine which of the number of gras vould cet US. blessings
Our current flexible operational policy i.e. the denlings with number
Gf Groupe 1s workable enough but pernezs torre might cone a time in the

g
8

‘not too distant future vben we may have to fisa or out bait. By this I

did pot mean to iaply an official emomcenmnt that any specific group.
had been selected; rather a fairly unierstanlable, sympathetic offielal
attitude tovards one single Cudon seguert mist be show.

Gs We ended the moting by stating oer appreciation of beving the
apportunity to express aur om personal views in an inforeal manners ve
added that. tle couversation in no way constituted a request for ansvers

to the topics discussed. E

GARD DROLIER’
fas [PA
ise (1 Rov. 1960)
Distritut ions
0 = CR File : :
1» Cardona dossier ,
Ls wer ttle”

w8e
