# 104-10219-10446

## Page 1

104-10219-10446

SECRET

PRO BO

PERSONAL RECORD QUESTIONNAIRE

PART 11 - OPERATIONAL INFORMATION

DISPATCH NO.

INSTRUCTIOYS TO CASE OFFICER

Porm-n088 bo dollod in by the cono olficos os appropredro sushorolo on lhe basla of the bout arnilablo ino

Te ay bo abe indo cooptado torce

lo usual nothod to ducuanat of cos

honduriland, il possablas 45d 100 (2) com.

"'¿lo 9lo" 1l addirional apoco required

SECTION

CONTACT

AND DEVELOPMENT

INDICATE NOU, MHEN, BMERC, UNT, AND BY NHON

SUBJECT MAS FIRST CONTACTEO OR DEVELOPED.

Caos Orf16cr, ChAle E. SWHTOCK (Da), made contast vita LInkIl On 21 Ortober

1959 (se0 IEXI,-455%). Caro 0189008 vent

to the busines office of Subjet an a

"MyIOn" of Instavo ANCOS y Derzod, sn 10 Dronatly Cuben Annardor 1n Brunals,

Falsis, and formarly o contact of Caso Offdoer's milo Alcos mas in Merdeo prior to

tha contall of rAlistA. Core Off1oar unde conteet with subjest in onior to "real

Min ent 1s bio attitulo torre the CAsTaO rostas.

statton, thronga INJAr, us able to evalusto Subject sell before t2e

@grael .

89 BIO

PARIS CATE HOLD 60178 1280161

#E

OVEM

NANDLING.

COULD

AF SO, DNDICATE TO

TURNED

QUICALY AND

ARANDER

TO ANY "ESPONSIRLE

CASt

OFFICER FOR

Ban joet could de turand over to any Cena orflons witl e apontine sordelga ol

Spantal

LIST OTHER CASE OFFICERS THO NAVE HANDLED SUBJECT ON UNOU ME UNONS OR MAS ANOWN.

GIVE WAMES BY WHICH THEY NAVE

#EEN

DESENSITIZED

per ESM 43-42/

FORM 4O.

• MOY 58

1050a

REPLACES FORM 50-$50

DE USED.

SECRET

201-267248

---

## Page 2

SECRET

MOTI

TICH MAL CENTROL

SUBJECT•S MOTIVATION. (Do debarlod, do postablo eato evidener

Do not una stock coament

Subjest, a highig notirated Cuban businesuan 11 leadco, suported the 20 of July

Movement for Ilellatie ressono, 1.e. Ild the country of BANISIA and bring denocracy

again to cuba. However, Subject han been corvinged that the CASIno regina has been

Infiltruted by Commists and CASTRO, his former Iriend, has done nothing about 1t.

1s motivatod by yatriotles, 1.0., to rid Cube of the Corniot thre

empost for the Infted States

IMDICATE THAI CONTROL, IP ANY, EXISTS OVER THE SUBJECT. (SE nO COMPrOl, OR Al there

• lacd of real control

op Cade officer has little control or so control over subjest,

It 1s sore of a

epoperative arrangement therein subject se willing to ssiot PAPIDS in ita desire

to get rid of CAS280.

SECTION AID

D, COVER USED BY SUBJECT AND CASE OFFICER IN THEIR MEETIAGS.

Hosting uranlly it IlYAlll-l's business office, "sere Case. 0ff1eer sould pass ee

a ellent.

# COVER USEO EY SUBJECT IN OBTAINING HIS IAFORMATIDN AND IN CENTACTING HIS INFORMANTS.

Subjeet, o long tiss 1t1eri of officiale of the Caban Babassy, merely Ilatene

to his friends rolate their problena end activitieo.

INDICATE SERVICE FOR THIN SUBJECY THINNS MA (BAll FOrA) (IS BOrdINA).

subject kna be so cooporstiog titta Params intalliganse egeney.

SECTION 14

INTELLIGEACE COMMECTIONS AND TRAINING

EXPLAIN

SUBJECE'S ENDIA PASE OR PRESENT CORNECTIDE

BITH ANY OTHEA INTILLIGENCE SERVICE. INDICATE THE LATERT

subject te not to to here sortal los ary intelligence serica, bowas,

hio cerviee rita tha: 26 08 July Movement Curing the perloa 1957-58, 19a eguippal

his mll for Intelliame vort.

2- LIST OTHER INDIVIDUALS (AGORCE, COLORIVES, ISSESÉS) SNO RESE OF SUBJECT-S. PRESENT INTELLIGENCE ACTIVESIES.

TENTio? lions that subject le coopersting tita farE.

EXPLAIN ANY TRAINING SUBJECT

HAD IN CLAADESTIRE OPERATIONS.

Horever, subjent was involved in several elaniestine movemente sulle

trenwar of the 26 01 Jaly Hovement during 1957-58.

SECTION "

ASSOCIATIONS.

COLLABORATION POTDITIAL

INDICATE OTHER FOREIGA PODER SUBJECT WOULD BE MOST LIKELY TO COLLADORATE MITH BECAUSE OF MIS IDEOLOEY DE PAST

EXPLAIN.

Caben Goverent

DESENSITIZED

40-78

SECRET

sure rico

---

## Page 3

1407

SECRET

SECTICA

OPERATIONAL USE

CCA TACT

SUBIECT HAS BEEN USEO DE COMPACTED BLOGRE, INDICATE ACTIVITY IN WHICH ME DAS ENGAGEO DES TE IVER EN I

MATICA HE

MAS&.

During 1958 Subjeot man mure of Gustavo ARCOS' contnet with the Case Offleer

and on me ocussion callel the Case 09f100r to say that ARCOs would not be able to

mke a neting.

2.

INDICATE HOS AND FROM ENON SUBJECI OBTAINS INDORMATION.

Subjest obtains his Infoszation Iron Officials In the Cubrn Embassy es a stando

INDICATE MAY HAS BEEN TOLD SUBJECE AS 1O IME DISFOSITION OF ISFORNATION ME FURNISHES.

Subjest so mare test the infosation ho provides 10 sent to lesisagtos.

A. DETAIL SUBJECT'S PROPOSED TO DE CI TYPE USE ON DUTIES.

Subjeet 1111 assiat in coordinating anti-CAsto notirites In Merioo as part of

the ANAIT operetion.

PA-PA TYPE USE OR DUTIES.

SECTION NI!

PROPOSED LIAISON OR OPERATIONAL

ACTIVITY

DETAIL SUBJECT'S PROPOSED ALALSSY TYFE CONTAGI OR SPERATIONAL USE:

#- WHERE SUBJECT IS AN OFFICIAL MEMBER OF A GOALIGN GOVERNMENT. ""

B, WHERE SUBJECT IS

OFFICIAL MEMBER OF AN OUTORE AGENCY:

MA

SECTION WII!

AGENCY RELATIONSHIP WITH SUBJECT

EXPLAIN NATURE OF AGENCY RELATIONSNIP MITH SUBJECT, S.E, TRAISEE, OPPOSITE NUMBERI REMUMERATION, IF ANYA AGENCY

PERSONNEL NOMA TO SUBJECT.

Subjeet in an paid flold agent of KUBARK.

DESENSITIZED

SECRET

---

## Page 4

14-00000

SECRET

SECTION

QUALIFICATIONS FOR ETHER OPEFATIONS

INDICATE SPECIAL ADILITIES, TALENTS, ON GUALIFICATIDOS POSSESSED MN SAJECT MICH LUO CONCEIVAELY AN OF VALLE

FOB ATATO

Babject

and therefore could if neoessary provide grinted

mtertal clandestinely.

SECTION *

COMNITMEATS

IF IT IS PROPOSED TO PAY SUBJECT A PEGLIAR SALARY.

INDICATE THE WEEREY AMDUNT. IF PAINERT TO BE WADE- IN ENCHANGE

COUMODITIES. SUBSIDY OR OTHER METNOD, STECIFY AND GIVE DETAILS.

Bnbject 1111 ba fiven eista it apprariate tines during the year.

EXPLAIN

AROMISES, OTHERDISE NOT COVERCO HEREIN. MADE TO SUBNEER. fERRARIO:

townstainet.

Homa

SECTION XI

CE ANE SECURITY

AMDICATE THE FIELO AGENCIES AND FIELD FIRES SITA MAICH

SUDJECT'S NAME HAS BEEN CHECEED AND THE RESULTS.

Statten Unvana ent lendgurters fIles Hive been check re Sahjest.

INDICATE OTHER INVESTIGATIVE MEASURES TANEN TO VERIFY BIOGPAPHICAL

INBIRMATION FURNISNID AT EUBJECT.

A finanatal chech by Din and Bristsuet tus ales aun on Subject.

INDICATE WHETHER OR NOT PROVISIONAL

OPIDATIONAL APPROVAL OR OPCMATIONAL AP.

A DATE APPROVAL OBTAINED

PROVAL FOR SUQJECT'S USE MAS BEEN PREVICUSLY OBTAINED.

manone operations Ararm.

EVALUATE SUBJECT'S CHANACTER, RELIADILITY ANO SECURITY, CITING ENIDENCE

THERE POSSIBLE.

aDjoot 1a & Liberal Cuhan businenama no Coltonted tize ani umey to 4

un 26 el Jaly Morant in Merido Guring 1957-58.

He 1a of strung chapectes and

highly thought of by moat marbere of the Cuben colory. in Harleo. fe 1e sa Inspandent

thinser ent camot be "pasted erounil."

CXPLAIN ANY SITUATION OR

INDISCRETION IN WHICH SUBJECT MAY HAVE DEEN INVOLVED WHICH

GE

EVALUATED FROM A

cort case SHoes Til het ITUII-1 On seTeral ocrolons during the past your et

nia bushaan office. Unile at the office, Bicarlo VIDA. Doninguals, Caban Carasas

has bem Case offleet at the offlee and on tro ocensions talked with Cane orfleer.

ITAIL 1 believes that VIM, 1111 not talk about there contacte to. Caban offLalals

SECTION XIL

SUBJECT'S PERSONAL HABITS

•8 USE OF LIQUOR. DRUGS: GAMBLING. PARAMOURS.

Bubjeet not know to have any obvions tiess.

PrOMOTIFO

-SECRET

---

## Page 5

SECRET

SECTION

AIl!

AVOCATIONAL INTERESTS

I#DICATE SUBJECT'S MOBBIES CO INTEREST IN SPOBES, MUSIC. LIE.

Bosdng entinslast

SECT I CHE

XIV

GENERAL

AUDICATE WHETHER

SUBJECT'S LANGUAGE ABILITIES AND OTHER CHARACTERISTICS, ANE SUCH AS ME COULE PASS

OF A COUNTRY OR REGION OTHER

THAN HIS OMN.

CAPLAIN.

Babjoat could pass-an a native of any Intio Anerican country.

INDICATE

WHETHER IAFORMATION IR PRO PARTS I GED BE

BAS OBTAINED DY RESEARCH, CLANDESTINE ASSESSMENT.

CORRESPONDENCE OR OTHER

MEANS.

Intosstion obtained through ITflAr, nuse checks Station flles, Merlean

Covast 112oa, Dan and lindstrost, and Headquartara.

THAN

#OUTINE ACTION

18 =. нув.

AuDIA)

IS REQUIRED.

IF ANO WHEN TERMINATION OF SUBJECT IS EFFECTED, PLEASE EXPLAIN.

SECTION XV

GIVE FULL

DETAILS

MAGINE CONTACT USE!

EMERGENCY CORDITIONS RECONTACT ARRANGENDATS

RECOGHITION SIGNALS, S/MI UNERE COULO CONTACT DE MADEL MAT BONA FIDES COULO INDIVAGUAL

Ele

SECTION XVI

Subject 18

So employeese

MISCELLAREOUS OPERATIONAL DATA AND REMARIS

eploying prostately

25 May 2060.

SECRET

SIGNATURE OF APPROPRIATE SEMIOR OFFICER

Gyle I. SEX (01)

'Bri

201-467216

---

