# 104-10127-10286

## Page 1

104-10127-10286

Central Intelligence Agency

..

Washington, D C 20505

OLG NEGORD COPY

ER 78-2313/2

OLC 78-3016

25 AUG 1978

ASCA

3934841

Honorable Louis Stokes, Chairman

Select Committee on Assassinations

House of Representatives

Washington, D.C. 20515

Dear Mr. Chairman:

Subsequent to our telephone conversation on 16 August, at

which time you informed me that subpoenas had been voted by the

Committee for four items of information, the matter has been the

subject of exchanges between your representatives and mine. I

assume that your staff has now made you aware that one of the items

had been reviewed by one of your staff representatives the morning

of the day before you told me the subpoena was voted. Another was

for a memorandum that cannot be located, apparently missing from

a file that previously had been reviewed by your representatives. I

assume these do not pose a question. The other two items, the subject

of this letter, appear to have developed into a different problem.

One of these two remaining items deals with a history of the

Vexico City Station, covering the period

to 1969. That history

contains only a few pages of reference to ue short visit of Lee Harvey

Oswald to Mexico City, and to related subsequent events. These

pertinent pages have been reviewed by your representatives. Other

than these few references the balance of the hictor dada with

operational and management developments

subject matter not related in any way to the jocared ox your arguay.

In its entirety it constitutes a highly sensitive collection of operational

and organizational information, involving intelligence sources anc

nethods, that should receive the most restricted handling.

CONRIOENTIAL

Classilied by 13190

Erempt from general

declassificalion schedule of E.O, 11653

exemption curegory 5311). 62D (33

¡ Autonstically decla milied r

Date Laposaiblo la Doteemine

20342

---

## Page 2

CONFIDENTIAL

investigation, subject, of course, to considerations of sensitivity•

Until your subpoena, we were unaware that there was a problem

different from any number of daily working problems encountered

in this inquiry. In fact, as noted, on two of the issues addressed by

the subpoena your representatives already had reviewed available

material. Subsequent to that, the rather detailed exchanges between .

your representatives and mine had appeared to have been entered into

in good faith, and we had proceeded accordingly.

I trust that we will have the opportunity to discuss this candidly

rather than under the conditions resulting from the subpoenas voted

by your Committee. Please let me know when you return to Washington

so we can discuss further how we might handle the matter.

Yours sincerely

-14275

Peltherne

STANSFIELD TURNER

cc: Honorable Richardson Preyer

Honorable Samuel L. Devine

Distribution:

Original - Addressee

1

. - DCI

1 - DDCI

1

. - ER

1 - OGC

1 - DDO

1 - DDA

1 - Mr. Shepanek

1 - SA/DDCI

1 - OLC Subj

1 - OLC Chrono

OLC/SDBreckinridge:baa (24 Aug 78)

GONFIOEXTIAL

---

