# 104-10186-10284

## Page 1

104-10186-10284

-5

4

3

2

INFORMATION REPORT INFORMATIon REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

SECRET

NO FOREIGN

DISSEM

COUNTRY Cuba

SUNECT Guillermo ARASTAGUIA

REPORT NO. CS CI 316/00643-64

DATE DISTR. 11 August 1964

RETURN TO CIA

Background Lse Only NO. PAGES 2

•Do Not Feproduce REFERENCES CSCI-3/779,803

CS-311/00115-64

DATE OF

INFO

1964

PLACE 8

washington, D. C

DATE ACQ. August 1964

FIELD REPORT NO.

TRIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE

SOURCE:

A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Service until April 1964.

Headquarters Comments

The following report is one of a serles containing personality

information provided by the source and includes supplemental

Information

fron the records of this Agency.

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any of

the individuals

mentioned

In the personality reports without

first checking with this Agency.

1.

Guillermo ARASTAGUIA, pseudonym

epartment of Technical Operational Support (NI) in the

• 19 the chief of the

Direccion General de Inteligencla (General Directorate of

Intelligence - DGI) •

He was formerly the secretary of

Ramiro VALDES in the Departamento de Seguridad del Estado

(Department of State Security - DSE), but ARASTAGUIA waS a

follower of Anibal ESCALANTE and because of a problem

concerning ESCALANTE and because ARASTAGUTA was believed to

be & homosexual, VALDES transferred him to the DGI:

ARASTAGUIA

went to the Youth Festival in Helsinki as a representative

of the DGI and has traveled to Moscow three times.

2.

ARASTAGUIA waS

born in 1934, is about five feet seven inches

1n height, has

blond hair and green eyes.

He is fat, has a

chin that juts out, lips that are somewhat sunkef;aand has a

rather high pitched voice and seems effeminate.

Headquarters Comments

1. A report dated 6 October 1960, from an

provided a list of Cuban Communists.

One Guillermo

ARRASTIA, aka

"Rene," possibly identical with Guillermo

ARASTAGUIA, was included and described as a first lleutenant,

bottler

lastratord treats one

5

3

STATE

l'OLA

ARMY

REP CINCLANT

(Nator fiold distribution indicatod by "#".)

I NAVY

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

TAIR

INSA

_ CINCSO #

I&NS

T FBI 2

INFORMATION REPOR

INFORMATIONARERORT.

HU/SALEOR MELSR

CI/LLA

CLiBiL

3 YE

Lor RASHL

LX-1631

NO PROJECT (AMMUG/J

CSCI-316/00643164

BID'AL

4BR

BOL/HAVE

11

---

## Page 2

SECRET

SO PREIGN DISSEM

executire. in G-z.

ARRASTIA was reported to hare the confidence

of Raul CASTRO and Ramir, VALDES; and he was VALEs' righthand

man in G-1.

2.

An official roster listing the military staff personnel comprising

the Intelligence Department, G-2, of the Cuban Ministry of the

Armed Forces (MINFAR) was received by a represestative of this

Agency from an untested source in a report dated l March 1961.

Included on this list wis one First Lleutenant Guillermo

ARRASTIA Fundora, possibly identical with Guillerao ARRASTAGUIA.

3.

In a report dated 28 October 1962, a list of ideatified and

suspected Cuban intelligence officers was included, the list was

received from anl

One First I\

Lleutenant Guillermo ARRATIA (or ARRASTIA) Fundora was included :

on the list and described as an identified intelligence officer

on the G2 Headquarters staff.

SECR

E

DISSEM

VIBR

---

