# 104-10515-10033

## Page 1

104-10515-10033

N11/COG 68-251

SENORANDU: POK:

SUBJECT

REFERENCE

ADIT

C/CIli & A (ie: Bocca)

"Garrison and The kennedy Assassination

C1/8. 8d Nemorandum Daled 26 April 1007

1.

In response to referonce renorindus,

Wi/Cuban Operations

Group has endondered

to preside all

avillable incormation on

individuals and orainlalioss coquosted in pungripts s, 41d

Tor reference.

Altonent I contains backoound guicination.

and bionaphie data on individuals outined tron 11/000 and

Alinchnout & summoires the background indora

tion and Aroney nssociation with the comications listed

in

pagean 50r rotornee.

11/COG will contine to rovich all malorial that tu.

contain. inforation portirent to this subject and vill fussurd

information do Cl/l ed on a priority basis.

Alinchnont 1

Fio daia on

individuals

Attachiont

Bichground summats of FAD, DEE, INCA

---

## Page 2

Accachnentl

Sorrito Vicento Aucacin Spich (snolosuro 2 of nucorenco nonorndum)

DIOB: 22 January 1923, Cúta

Traces on ARCACiA do not rottect the date he first

trivod in kho U.ba

Norever, he became the freite lEvory,

CIONARIO DIXOCNICO (URD) delegato in Now Orleans Driox

to the law or Pigs invision and continued hr that posicions

until dia rid ceased to function. The filwas the peaces

supported by the Ngency.

The orminication wis used ay o

tront loi recruitucht of brigue 250G for the invasion.

During this period ACACH acported to the FRo headquarters

through a post office bos in Coml Gibles,

aportedly mintained extonsive volations with the Now

Oricans Til aid Immigration offices. To of his varular

rul controts vero a di. De Bruce and the deceived Guy

Banister®

ARiCACIA was also one of the monotem of the

Imbs or DocKETC CUBA, IC (FUC) which was incorporated

in New Orleans on 6 January 1901, This ortanization vas

ostensibly crcatco by several Mow Orleans business and

politient fiswos, including the deccased torer VOt agont,

light arinst Comunisa.

collect mies tog do the the ord

incorporation, those donations would also be used to support

the FRD and the funds were to be clampled through nichela,

loso a pelechtare to be retrined by the FDC.

in investi

catión conductod by a cliable Miani Station asser concludod

that the FDC was organised strictly foi the porsonal guin

of the pronoters with the approval and collaboration of

AlCACES.

The investigation prodiced no criccuce that any

Individmt doutions vore ever solicized of reccived and

reconnunded that the funds of the Stevodores Union and tho

kouks of the New Orleans Exporters Conpany be investirated

fur cvidunce of personal gain and possible evidonce of

fedoral tus evasion,

since both the president of the New

Orlonus laporters Company, Gerard F. Tumague, and the Chiet

of New Orleans Stevedores Union,

Alfred Chittendion, were

officials of the FDC.. Approxintoly one month arter the

FDC Mis crented,

strong criticisn fron sonc prominent Cubis

pui the oiganivation out of business.

3.

Information in an imigration card reflects

ARcaCia mravelled to Caracas,

Terenucla at an unspociried

inte. lis address in Veneruela was HOtEl TIli; Carseas,

ane iris to address sas listo as 4523 Duplesses Street,

rassport to. 00:33.

---

## Page 3

1:06

comsation

111%n

13

1961

not tintor

9614

---

## Page 4

CelOS BINGULIL Crnclogno 0 uf rotorence nonorandum)

CArIos BRINGUER lo a brothen of Juan Nolipo BHINGUER

esposato, a former momber of Bricade 250G wio naS auttured

durtile tho divusions

Setho personal history statouent in

Tilo states his brottic Carlos, luvyor

in Cuba, was 20 years old at the tine of Juan's recrultmont

1ai 1960

CEC.

---

## Page 5

OLUES

Kharu Spaburhe (Ia ra rplete (A) ul rororenco fgonornirdum)

Inimuy

ots suucct Csonanizrou (INCA) spoms ored

che der onauiscapponmaco osnunit casfro shortlyattos

tearmorl in tho Uss INCAnnu n partlontr iiitorcs dnr

disscisTro.cinco.thoykistrilutcd.hindreds.of.tipos. contrun-

1ig les chistto o dcolaratsone adioneatio itnse

anbraconeimitar

Nosigos

MJMivh assot

hancea tho uluindus id mrangcnents foritha, New Orloans

yisi rich aros offtclals

The onty cubsequont contuet

Octrectt the JSWAVE asset

and Edward BUTbMt occurrel whon

"CASTNO-MIN'LEI SN IIAVANA".

Scc.Attachnent 2 for o suumury

of tho INCA orcanization.

---

## Page 6

Albert roman (Paragraph 7(3) of reference lucmoranuuu)

UPOB: F duld 1029, New Orloans, Louis tana

1. Subject is Alberto Casinin Postel Perillait, a

member of uritado 2506 who was captural during the invusion

and roturned to the US in tho Deconber 1902 prisonet

exchange.

FOULER apparently roturned to Cube with his parents

during his carly life and returned to the US to attoud

scrati hits fate toons. ile nttendou the Lenox Selvol,

Lenos, Massachusetts, 1918-49; Louisiana Stare University

1949-51. 50/tor his graduation fron LSU ho loturned to Cubit

nud maried sargarita Paulotte Van de SCHUENES, bora 13

August 1933, Brussels, Belgam.

FOULEN is President of

the North Ancrican Sugar Company, lavana, frow 1951 until

he returned to the US in Novenber 1900 and enlisted in

Brigade 2500.

At the time of his enlistucnt he gavo wirk

POSTER, Cuban Refusco Contey White livuse Rejresentative,

and former: US Anessador Killian D, PIULlY, as refcrences.

rolloing his release fron prison FOrisk worked for the

BRAINS CONSTRICIION COMPANY

Pard Boac4. F10ri0d, where his

tather resides, and for BROOKS TRAVEL SERVICES, W. Palm

Beach,

Floridil,

unil at loast late 190%. He apparently

Just his Us citicuship during his jears of residence in

Cuba and

immigration records indicate he applied for advance

parole status in Novenber 1961 while Lo was still coployed

in W. Palm Doach. lo apparchtly returned to Louisiana

sometime after that date. FOWl's ruther lives in Coving

con, Louisian, and he has a sister thoris mrriod to loit

PIpeng do, member of a prominent Nou Orleans family.

---

## Page 7

SECRET

MEMORANDUM

SUBTECTE Layrence d, LADORDD, 201-291688

On 4 May 1967 the headquarters office of the Domestic

Contacts Serrice (clcphoned the C/CV/R&A and said that Subjcct had

teleplaned the Ney Orleans office of the DCS that day, Subject sald that

he was an ex-CLA employce, that he icared that D.A. Jim GARRISON

would subpocna him, that he was willing to leave the U.S. to avoid a

subpocna, and that he wanted the office to tell him what to do.

A review of Subjectle file has led to the hypothesis that this

visit may have been a provocation, probably engincered by GARRISON

In an attempt to trap CIA Into advising Subject to leave Louisiana.

Had such advice been given, GARRISON would have been able to buttress

his charge that CIA is attempting to obstruct the coursc of justice in

New Orleans.

3.

The Miami Station requested a provisional covert security

approval for Subject on 14 March 1961. The request was granted on

24 March 1961. (A PCSA approves contact for spotting and assessing

only.) However, a 31 March 1961 cable from Miami requested per-

mission to increase Subject's salary to $700 a month and to pay him

bonuses.

4.

A Hicadquarters dispatch of 23 March 1962 warned Miami

that Subject was indiscret, drank too much, and had an unsavoury

reputation, On 20 April 1962 Miami cancelled the reguest for an

approval, on the grounds that Subject was a poor security risk.

Subject had no later relationship with the Agency. Subject was bitter

about his CIA contacts when terminated and made reckless threats.

5.

An FBI report of 23 May 1962 said Subject had contacted

representatives of the Cuban Revolutionary Council (CRC, Agency created

and supported) in New Orleans, his home town; had offered his services;

and had said he was running a boat out of Key West, smuggling Cubans

and guns with the knowledge of CIA.

SECRET

---

## Page 8

SECRET

6.

A Miam report of June 1962 saig that Subjcet was employed

1947-2949 In Alestico by the U.S. Departnces of Agriculture but vas

fired for excessive drinking, discharging authorized firearmo, and

non-support of dependent children.

The New Orleans States-Item of 2S July 1962 named Subject

was the source of bitterly anti-CIA romarks a a story which praises:

LABORDS as a "good family man, completely reliables, and quotes a

Cuban refugec leader as saying that CIA and FBI agents termed Subject

a man of integrity. MAn anti-CLA article in the Denver Post of 3 June 1962

also appears to be based on statements früs LABORDE.

8. 1

FBl reporting of August 1962 stated that LABORDE had duped

certain persons into buying a schoonct, the Elsic Reichart, by saying

that he and a crew would operate it for Cabar operations which the

U.S. Government could not openly acknowlese but for which it would

pay handsomely.

SECRET

---

## Page 9

subjectats possibly ident irable wet Curles guinoch,

a Tormer Scudent it Lous famn Stato Univorst ly Cho waste

caudidate for the Arency Student Recruitnont Prosum.

involved recruitment. of Cuban otudents fu the US mho would

isturiato cuba as agents in placo. omans tanets vertoct

ou Individunt of thio same, mmo was an clectrich cutincer

residing at let orby acoNey ones.

Subjeet reportedly had homosexual tendencios,

How morats

and until the niddle of 1961 was on ardent CASTIO supporter

and unic anti-us statements There is no indication that a

CarloS QUIlOSA was ever employed by tie Ageney in any

capacity.

---

## Page 10

SECHET

Jun En 10% 205 (Ciclosuro S of votoronco mumorandum)

Мов31G Debruary 1910, Hassa, Cuba

Subjects apprently identiftablo with Julian SuNsDO

Castellauos, uho artlved in tre us

on 30 November 1960 and

culisted in Bitrade 2506341c ms a Civilian Dilotrin Cubi

captured and acleased in the prisoncy excliange

There as no

indication he vas over emplosed by tho Agency, other

than

Iiis participation in the invasion.

---

## Page 11

S: 061

101°:

ONWAVIO CATON

ot condue time an

New Urleanes

no Sonno Motra

DORDIO DOS CAVINC

---

## Page 12

There's no record of Suhicet undor either. name in ticoG

or JIVE files.

---

## Page 13

alainwale

1ex0l1610...61o o11910.81l (lid)

1.

in

The 1k"

mis conceded daride darnd ime to the

IIU 210

in lacerix

lost.

0u8s808li

ul

Troup iu Cub:

wiech fought

sang or ther

care loto exili micund doglenvas 19G0

inter cule

By 11.6

Inle 19c0 there the amrated by vocida

Sillomo sodtime up.action toil,

the lies uf bigi invasion.

While the Wis van anicially sor

up it i piych sartare outfit, the oraniention bas sivon

of parnalllling

aid in fonis id autojial.

aleo the big of blis, the mil cumood li indoorient

military notion chich declined at Anner direcrion and.

Arabic of a deduction in funds lIOn DiG 1968 UNCil OI

Kuoup.

senbcs Here used tournh 1S0d as

milliciel mution agent, for publishing propanada slich

Has Ech throughont

the Heilsplers, strending inti.atiomal

Agency direction, and proqueine madlo

proman and special proparanda campaiin.

After the cutback in hilltily operations,sony

bese Dil: senbors relocaled in othcs areas.

there ale dolcations

tris bhich

hieve.

abintained

in most balla Anoxican coun

cond contier with tirious.

Arcady

the seats althouth the bit is no

16-30r N013

active.

Dualr the ormention's o jeal

of active cristonce DRE porcionnol vero in connet

main serend armlll starlers and outside contraet scents

Hearti,

fron January 1905 throwsh licenher asus, contact

Gao not personnel y

as limited tel

I8 EL SalVador.

---

## Page 14

TIUNISANANTON COUNCIL OF TIE ALERICAS, INC. ((NCA)

INCA 1s mu anti Communint propaganda oncemication

that also hates bastish

and torolen Tingdego promanda taped and is on a torme

vido, basis, conducts pible foruns of an ostrentst

politiant matures etc.

mig ortantent tonal topocus ind tunds

monrently come fron wealthy Nev Orleans figures fueludins

DEARTON OCISNER, OF ME OCISHER CLINIG.

KOumsoN. In accentsew's funds bars begu supplied ly tho

SCHUCK SAFETY HAZOR COMPASY. AN INCA letterhoud Tisting ai1

the officers and officials las been roquested frum wAVE,

which has had sone casual correspondenco with the ormniz

tion concorning Niss Juanita CASTRO.

there is no indication of any droncy relationship

YUENCh Prior to Jamary 1965 when INCA Sponsored 415S

CASTRo's appearance in Not Oricans, At that tile au Arency

asset the functiored as

involved with INch officials in planning the Now Oriem

visit where Miss CASTlO uns given an auro at n dimea

sponsured by INCA. The dinnch, which was ationded by civic

leadors and represchintives of all nevs nedit,

cook place

shortly aftor diss CASTRO's detection and there sas

cosircrable interest in her appcamnce:

INCA was particularly

interested since it had distributed nundrous of English

and. Spanish languace tapes containans her heltercits Mien

she ns surfaced in Nexico. In October 1906 INCA again

rogusted that miss CASTRO appcar as a buust speaker in

major Anctican citics in connoction with cho relcise oi

the INCA motion picture production "niebut iN batvis

Folloving various sericus of the filia, JAWivE accided cho

liln would probably become controversial and it rould bu

imovisablo to parmit diss Casino to accept thie invication.

has wanted to arold any nore involvchont between

and INcA and the sintion asset, in his cavacitt

chas managed to prevent this.

There has bean only

one casual contact botrecniour asset and Hourd LUrtEr,

execuilve Vice-President of ISCA, since Miss CASTIO'S

Now Crloans tail.

This 100l place sccortly whicH BUILER was

1a the nica pronoting the "HITLIR IN HAVINI" filu.

According to JAVi:, liCA officials have Rivor

indicoica tu aar vay that they die guard

MiSS CASTRO ON liCHL

indicacion that Inch officials have had any officisi

contact with agends officers.

---

## Page 15

Sual

DIANE CHOLUCIONAMO DIOCRATICO (FIED)

COLLIN DIOCRAT ICAREVOLUTIOMARY TROVT)

no rested elth Agency assistanco,

Guidanco and tinancia support in lay 1900 aid corsisted

of coveral anti-CAstro proups:

The NiN) vag forued asta

political action, proparinda and milieury unit.

Inicinl

ne tons consistod of extensive radio and printed propaganda,

devonstrations, and calps throuthout the Hemisphere to suin

surt tos the belt acainst castro.

The 11D also rudetioned

as the front orcantzution for recruiting the nenbors of

tho Bay of Pigs invaston force and carried out a tassive

moran of socil assistance to brigado 2500 nonberstin

training camps and theis families.

Altouch the Fad hendr

quertois vero basca in blami, delegates were assigned to

other weis which «Included New Orlens, Louisimm, Taiga,

Morlds, and Mexico City, to guthor intolligence and

coordinate Cuban xefugoc activitics.

20

COUNCiL (CRC) ms formed to coordinto and dircet to

activitios and this froup was headed by Agency and White

House spuisored De, Joc MIRO Cardona, assisted by Namel

AliTE and Da. Antonio VARORA: Both the FE and the CRe

continuce to function until October 1901 then thohit was

completoly absorbed by the CHC in order to avoid the concision

resultine fron duplication of persomel, activities and

funding The ChC nIso had direet access to Prosident

Kennedy and ton Chite House aides.: Because of the minirude

of the rib and CHC operations and the Agency participation

In the activities and funding of the toups, it large murder

of JAVE and llendquarters vere directly involved with both

FRD and CRC porsoincl

---

