# 104-10179-10135

## Page 1

(104-10179-10135)

.*

SECRET

19 June 1963

MEHORANDUM FOR THS RECORD

SUBJECT: Manolo RAY

I. I did not have the oppoitunity to discuss many Cuba

problems with Manolo RAY during the period 4-13 June in bot

San Juan and Paris.

Our meetings were largely devoted to the

effort of contacting and attempting to recruit or cause the

The following, however, are the

conclusions of my briel ertort to discuss the general

sliuation

Manolo RiY's Attitude Towards KUBARK:

It has becone

obvious to me on this second meeting with Manolo RAY that:

RAY is conyinced that the Agency had in the past

purposely and actively attempted to destroy him as a

political leader.

In this connection,

RAY feels that the

Agency, following the Bay of Pigs invasion, was partially

rosponsible for the break up of the ARP clandestino net-

and resistance potential in and out of Cuba.

stated that he has proof of the participation of at least

one nubark officer in & plot with certain MRP officiale to

renove hin from the MRP as a condition for KUBARK'S

assistance to that organization.

RAY added that the

officer in question has been fired.

He either did not

know or could not recall the individual's name or pre-

ferred not to mention it.

b. On the strength and position of the State White

Paper on Cuba prior to the Bay of Pigs, RAY's MRP Joined

the TRD dator the CRC).

While his organization was &

membor of the FRD, the attention of KUBARK and the U. 8.

Govornment was called time and time again by the FRI

tho MRP to the infiltration and usorof notorious

Batistianos. In anti-Castro activittes.

Despite these

nothing ins done to senove these pooplo,

Biving for to seel that we echot did not toon phat wo

wexe doing or that our purposes were seit-seavies.

It clatus that ho und his foloress have repentedty

unkod for KUBARk help to Inplement, cortern, aroma for tetion.

Be peciftcally reminded mo

of the ostetnatly pree.

mented concopts

• plan to freo Huber Matos

worCP roes back to Rita relationship with

Eavana 1n 1960,l

our COS: in

RAy has the foolins that, it te

Jutito to present us with ahy nore plans on tdeas; for

novor helpod, have almays refused, or not answered.

SECRET

---

## Page 2

SECRET 2-

3.

RAY told me that he felt it possible to speak in &

completely frank manner with me.

I urged him to do so,

stressing that only

in such an atmosphere was there any hope

of our eventually arriving at some constructive understanding.

I attempted to assure RAY that our motives were never sinister,

that every action we have ever taken was based on a need to use

those instruments which promised nost in our effort to free

Cuba.

He replled that he belleved that this might be an honest

statement on my part, but that I could not speak for the past

actions of certain individuals.. At this point I told him that

We had many friends in

our Agency as well as in the u.s.

Government, but that naturally there were people who believed

him to be too far to the left.

I also stressed that our

assistance to anyone could not be a one-way street, and I

reminded him that I made the same point to his in our first

meeting almost a year ago.

I pointed

out that we naturally

work best with

those who cooperate.

I told bim of our need

for intelligence,

not with any

desire to know all the secrets

of his organization and its political plans, but with. the end

of gaining that

knowledge which could help in more quickly

restoring freedom and democracy to Cuba.

Toward the end of

this phase

of our discussion,

I asked RAY if he would be willing

to give us

the intelligence product of his activities inside

Cuba if we

were,

1n

turn, to give him certain material support.

Ris reply was an

emphatic yes.

1.

Tbe Present

Plans of the JURE: I asked RAY what he

was doing

of a positive nature Inside Cuba today.

He told me

that the major effort of the JURE at this time was the caching

of resistance materials and supplies inside Cuba.

I commented

that the

caching of supplies implied

the existence of Individuals

inside Cuba to receive them.

RAY did not respond to this comment,

leading me to believe from

previous conversations that it would

probably be some time before he is willing to trust us with the

knowledge of his assets inside Cuba.

Naturally I also concluded

from the silence and from remarks made later

on that be does

not, in fact, have a large organized rosistance network inside

Cuba.

RAY went on

to comment that with help or no help they

(JURE) would proceed day after day, and month after month in a

plan that they were certain would bring about a change in Cuba.

Bo. stated that their path is sure, albolt,

frought with pertl

ne difficulty

wit certain. The "way" apparently is based on

Dose assumptions:

Cuba 1s a

"mossi; it will become lacreasingly

ebnotle, aldenating larger and larger serents of the

population

b.

the JUld to politically and mornily clean.

not comprontsed its

principles for any advantaré.

it 18,

and will focreasingly become

acceptable as the heir to

the revolution.

SECRET

Lectina ino demolie

---

## Page 3

pre-

-3 m

c.

the JURE represents a group of nen of unquestioned

integrity,

competence

intelligence, organizational ability, or general

to run a free Cuba in the tradition of the

revolution.

d.

The TURE has a sense of timing, the patience that

must go with this,

and an appreciation

of the need to

create

a truly Cuba "mistique" in a movement to fight for

the liberation

of Cuba.

In this connection,

1e is

important

to note that RAY did not,

and would not, expose

bimself to an effort against FRANQUI without some assurance

of success.

He

stated

openly that it would 111-become

him to associate binself with fallure.)

have the logistical support in

and ready for use, will have the personnel ready.

This was clearly implied but not actually stated. RAY

stated that no purpose would be served, except to expose

assist them,

by engaging in clandestine

activities that do not have the necessary material and

Jogistreal support.

5.

While we covered

varlous

aspects of the above ground

from different

angles

and I

cooperation

1s

reiterated again the fact that

a two-way street which RAY acknowledged in

seemingly sincere tones; he was completely forthright in stating

that whereas they needed

assistance and would gladly take it,

they have always

heen refused it and in essence the time has

passed to

ask, for without it or not, their role and goal

Are

clear and in one manner or another they will succeed.

B. Recommendation for Puture Relations with RAY (JURE):

RAY cannot be overlooked in the struggle for Cuban

freedom; of all the Cubans I have wet, he is the most

purposelul, methodical, as woll as the most experienced

clandestine operator.

overthrowing Fidel, but it will be a long, bard struggle

b.

For the U.8. or

KUBARr to contlaue to pass up the

"opportunity to work with RAl mu, prove to be " most. costly

orror in our lors torm relations with Cuba, assroll as with

Important political seguents of latin Aerica.

I reconnend that ve mantain a steady contact ita

reeling assured that he 12 be increas rely cooperative.

In addition,, E rocoond that we subsidize, the entorts of

Jus for the running of autoro ous ops with attred monthly

sun (perhaps 35,000) for a trial poriod of Approstrately

i:7617000

#TImE IN

83382 tangi

SECRET

---

## Page 4

SECRET

-1-

one year.

In return for our assistance, RAY is to provide

CUBARE with all manner of intelligence derived from JURI

operations inside Cuba.

7. Conciusions:

Because the cables sent in to Higs both fron sau

Juan and Paris are an accurate, lf condensed, version of

my relations with RAY in his operational efforts against

• Carlos FRANQUI, Barique CABRERA Infante and Gustavo ARCOS,

• separate monorandum for the record will not be prepared

unless

so desired by the Chief, SAs.

b.

RAY has known me as Alfredo Fernandez,

but

because of operational Imitations. (false identity

documents, reservations in true name) it becare necessary

for hin to call me in my true name. He was not, however,

told that this. latter name was in fact true.

In ail our

personal meetings he continued to call me

"Fernandez."

C. RAT recognized and remembered having met

(Growery-P) in Cuba years ago.

Alfonso Rodriguez

BAS/50

SECRET

IN L

---

