# 104-10162-10074

## Page 1

104-10162-10074

SECRET

(WHEN FILLES IND

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

INSTRUCTIONS

FEB. 60

PRIOR TO FILING

1.

F1ll in Sect. 2. on back. Detach back

2.

"lap

ad futard o RiD.

Destroy front cover sheet, unless it

records significant action taken or

conneats requiring preservation.

FROM:

TOS ACTION BRANCH

If fiio no. and iiiie show are not

proper.

insert proper file no. below

and forward docusest to RID/AN.

PROPER FILE NO.

TO

ROOM

NO.

DATE

TO: ALL ADDRESSEES

FILL' IN SICTION 8 CA BACK. IF APPROPRIATE

Неспіяр м/

Jiw NApchI

RECEIVED

•1.

Wols

HORWARDED!

Alanceli

Calunst

Mich vid

car un Mus - lectio

in suited cente

285-

Wet 03

Chery

Gilster

Phnin

1684 60

RETURN TO CIA

Flackground Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

16200d

(SLA delizura, to

рати і не оті.

14

15.

RID/MiS

17.

RID/PT

TRACE

REQUEST

DATI HICHOFILNED

ir.

ABSTRACT

INDEE

On 1D2c

Discursit.

sile later

same dot

Fun, Manuel

301. +267437

NUMBER

anN.iln

---

## Page 2

TO

I#O

DISTAIGH

Chief, he

Calef, lat

SECRET RIST .!!

27

[0G1N7-21,707

MEADOLAFTIES FRE NO

16576-2213-41

15-2

FROM

DAT!

23 Fember 1860.

[QUANTUA/Ila1800 vita Cuban antI-Castro Groupe

In Miant

CTION HEQUARED

See para 8

RE: "433' - (CHECK I' ONE)

MARKED FOR INDELING

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

ENDEXING CAN DE JUDGED

BY QUALIFIED HQ. DESK ONLY

HDR-5362, 24 October 1960 (Rybat) C'SC1-3162

(Asted tiatimes ple-

031

960) 441-3100Tte)

Da 15 Norenber 1960 QUANTUM/30 gave the station a copy or the

report, forvarded under separate cover, ubicia vas made by the two Spentah

SE Government representatives sent to Miami in late October to neet with

representatives of anti-Castro exile groupe there.

Their main contact was

with Manuel ARTTI Buesa, leader of the Movisiento de Recuperacion

Revolucionaria (MRR). The report deals with the formation and status of

the Cuban resistance groups and alloged degree of ODYOKE cooperation and

support of their activities.

2• Headquarters attention in called to those portions of the report.

dealiag vith ODYOKE support of the Frente Revolucionario Democratico (FRD),

a confederation fored Initially of lie permintimary arome marating out

od kiand. In relating the history of ARTIME, former leader of the

Agripacion Catolica Universitaria (ACU) and one-time combatlant in the

castro revolutionary army, the report claims that when ARTIME became

disatfected from Castro, he was approached by an "ODYOKE Information

service" and taken to, Mant where he was pressured to join the PRi.

ODYOKS plans, the GUANTUM representatives vere told, envision ARtiME as

the political military leader of the future liberation of Cuba and

photographs of hin have been prepared for vorld-wide distribution to

popularize him as the liberation lender shen the uprising against Castro

Gazady Cozo, Rogelio (row deasi)

3• ODYUKE aid and instruction for resistance groups inside cuba

are flltered through one "Franciaco," former ACU member and close friend

and collaborator of ARTIE to acts as the coordinator of clandestine

FRD operations In Cuba.

The QUANIUM/representatives examined a report,

roceived in Miant Ir early November, which us sent by "Francisco"

and shich ortlined his plans for resistance operations. The report. was

mubuitted for the approval of ODYOKE personnel vorking with the Cubans.

#o The report also states that ODYOKE has conditioned its support

to Cuban resistance groups on their channeling their activities through

the FRD. Secret training camps, set up by ODYOKE, premmably In Guatemnla

and other contries in the Caribbean area, have been operating for the

past Bir sonths and already approximately 1, 000 Cubans have received

tratning to take part in the principal Invasion forces.

Persons trained

In subversion have been infiltrated into Cuba from these camps. Pilote

have been trained to man an air force which now numbers approximately

8O modern ODYOKE planes. As reinforcements ODYOKE has also trained

5,000 or 6,000 Puerto Ricans, Mbo, disguised am Cubans, will take part

In the invasion. Cuce the Invasion takes place, the report continues,

opYOky has promised to supply the invaders vith the mterials necessary

to mintain 1ta impetus.

Is the Comminist bloc should provide manive

upport to Castro, the ODYOKE officials in contact with the Cuban

resistance group have implied that ODYOKE would openly Intervene.

85 53

5. The military comander of the invasion operations in a Cuban

my colonel, but de facto direction Les vich an ODYKE general staff

which overseen the operations plans and will signal the time for them

to be implanented.

901-267437

The Spanich Sternment teps were

Hemergilda Griere

and

Palace

SECRET

8/9A

---

## Page 3

CONTINUATION OF "

DISPATCH

CLASSICATE.

E NATEN SIRENS AND NO

SECRET REARYBAY

20674722, 707

6. The report alno contains estimtes of the strength of resiatance

Eroups Inside Cubs, the loyalty of the Cuban arned Iances to Fidel Castro,

and general comments on the composition of the revolutionary groupe

which form the 11D.

7. It in not know at this tim what plans 1f any the Spanish

goverment may have for continued liaison vith Cuban resistance groupa,

nora, support already isplied by their consenting to sad this Initi

218810n. QUANTUM/30) has indicated that there 1s no present plan for

personnel rupport.

8. It in requested that this alpatch and 1te attachment be brought

to the attention of the Cirban and Spaniah desk reporta sections in order

bat any ney pgultive Intelligence it contains may be disseminated,

which the Indria) station la not in a position to determine. Ma judge

that 1ts passetpal interest lien in the fact that the Spaninh sovernment

has established-lialem sith the resiatauce groups and its possible

(knowledgeability, as A result, Of ODYOKE covert plans and operations 1n

the Cuban arsa.

Mallace A. Growery

Attachment: under seperate cover

22 November 1960

Distribution:

3 - с/кв,

watt usc

2 - c/LED, w/att USc

DLASSIFICATION

DOSENSITIZED.

U1e retroUs Ermoni.

BRACES ACTRES

÷$: 28

31-244 4920 51-300

-Companio =

1:2

---

