# 104-10433-10007

## Page 1

104-10433-10007

102 - 574

25 November 1963

I (six page

• attachment)

Disposition - This document was denied. T'he document contained

information received from a foreign liaison)service which consequently

cannot be released. The information in the documents relate in general

to the activities of a Communist diplomatic installation during September

and October of 1963. The document also contained the names of staff

officers, the identity of Agency components, as well as Agency internal

filing instructions.

The denial was made under the authority of exemptions

(b) (1). (b) (2) and (b) (3)

---

## Page 2

13-00000.

2.52400.1963

201

Zral:

Att

Bhen

manemaeo in nie to tui ous pelaigos tinoe, 1415, iuuca

C Howber 155e

2. Comenlad so Soslarr A 1o a tmmertys of tha 38 Sertenber

L tha snoco

(ruraval na Jhetonoe 8 l0 a Semneript of thre pieera colls

tno m at saptanbon 156, cno sato dn 1 Cetohar 1913 mnll su mota ca

3 totota 1563% Votco empmans Seilertad Mos tha "Hurtl oaleaa"

sho pattoipaoid in memanl oo tonpe corasatlecn t gechubly toa

peree so loerhiflod blnnolt es In t0n1s en 1 Ceseser 155-

(or bantattro sontlaados tra motiny thane trrosoriyca i

kat Csta) wn to theli my hn ta 36 4 110 9 81

As Hodt tde enn 300 enl thes, snlliot to gos 16 ciety, to

triet to ort n aker samnto vien so bo mutd po to ciim sut mtt for

th ctang de ta oories vion cio ly do te peruia moocod

Ey tlirte Droe, the Mecteas satomi emiayon dl the Cibes Eibasey

vo talt nita cauta-

Doxment Numbar m

102-574

TRASSL FROCPAN

IPJEDI

TAICTRRET

6301-3/773,22

Attechet1

NOr FOlA Rleviam on

APR 1976

raprranten o u

JNARRE (RR EO

EAZO COT

3:20 RR

P/AD

t:3.

DISS:

¿1 (10)

LPCSS

DE 20G

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW

CONDUCTED ONT 6 4PR 1976

E&LINPDET CL BY 0 /2208

H/3M Mand: I2

56tr 0te.

0s1 m Addressee

1 = (pul taldon

RECORD COPY

25 K

3 (010 1026)

/sepato),

cx/ops/3a-

Blughen

I0rO5E 01

(201-289248)

copy-fils

---

## Page 3

5/ER127: 12920

ÁN MOCI INT LEI DITELLY ZAVE DOX LI IDO CATE DI COLLUVA I DE EDIUSTERRAL

CAVIA IN STE F

NATA INVASION ALAVA

Levanzos

SMATEACCETTON LASTENT KYTASIA ISTIT DEAST SURALE ANDIAT INTET

00000-&L

---

## Page 4

13-00000

CAR 2)

ESTE APOIR TE TONTA SOS DORES ATERRO CONTES E

A samor surios

FROT CURAS INMARST 33 SEPIANER TO SOVISE SIASSY.

WHO DED TRANSCHXPTTONS BATES OBVALD

---

## Page 5

13-00000.

REPEAT OSCARE

SONAETTLER COLOMATO COUNTS SARAN ATION

GANG BASE LINE TO GET AGAITO

40:80 555/42 A5X

DRESS

WEAT

NOR TARRE BERSER ERICA GUTTE

TALSO BECAESE SHE BEN STUO DEMOTENT AUERIAT EARLEST

BATANTIATE SEXY MADE OR COER DESER SASHER TER

CUILS DEALTONG VET TO TA DIETAD TUATISE PROCITURES

XIAN TOW EASON DESOLO HE POST ANNIE MOULD RAVERYO.

PROACTIA WAS NATOE ANCS USE TO TANA TONES OBER DE SEEN

DERAY TECH THE CURAT CONSULATE ANDESE LAINS FAS SALE THING

TELEPEONE AND NAME BO TREY DAY CALL, HIM LATER SILVIA, TEXY

---

## Page 6

13-00000

(PAGE 2)

JURIZ SHES IT TO IN AS EM ASSETRPHONS 11 28. 17 AND SHK

TATES THAT OPPORTUNITY TO SAT AS SCHSTEING PERSONAL OF HER

TRATE SUS CHANGKD HER LUDRESS AND BAS NOT BEEK ABLE TOM

NOT DET ITERM SO THEY CAX SEID HER THE BULLETE AND THAT TOL

SHE CAT QURAT TO THEN KAY INSIDE ASKS HER TO CALL

XOTRXRARENKO TO GIVE HIM HER CHANGE IN ADDRESS AND THE XAY

SK'S TUR THEENAME ON THE CUUNSKLLOR OF CULTURAL; ATTACHE.

SILYIA SAYE TRAT. HER KANTI8 TERESA PROENZA VAND SHE CAN EX

О1 27 88 63 A5 1626 HAS OUT CALL TROM BOY.

CHE TOM:28147 RANSLATION DOM SPANISELY

LUNAN INBIDE A8KB

SILTA THAT AMERICAN HAS BEEN THERE. SILVIA: BAYS YES,

THAT HERTE THERE MAN INSIDE BATE THAT ACCORDING TO THESLIET.

TIAS MASHONED ET FROM THE CONSULATE IN WASHINGTON HE TANTS

TO GO TO THE UBER FOR A LONG LINE WITE FISRUBSTAN VIRE BUT

AS UNTER SETLY, HAS NOT BETAL RECSIVED TROY TASHINGTON ABOUT

HIS PROBLE, BUX TRAT ACCORDING TO THIS PROCEDURES TILD TAKES

DONK YOUR OR TIVE MONTHS BUT THAT WITHOUT THAT. PERMIT TROU

THE USSR TEXT SHOULD ASK AND RATERS THEY CAVICT GRANT THE

VIaL TIKXX WITHOUT ASKING VASHINGION BUT ACCORDING TO THIS

MAX HE BROWED HIN A LETTER SHOTING THAT EX IS A MEMENS OF AN

DESAYIZATION IN ZATOR OF CORA AND 33 EAS SAID TEAR- CUBLYS

CUYNOT GIVE HIM THE VISA TITEOUT THE RUSSIAN VISA AND NOW

---

## Page 7

13-00000

(PAGE 3)

THE NA NEIDS DOES NOT KNOT THAT TO DO TATE HEY, BECAUSE

THAY MUST VAIT FOR AN ANSHER TROX TASHINETONEE SILVIA SAYS

THAT TEST TOO ABSCATE HIS PROBLEN TEN THAT HE KNOTS NOBODY

IN CUBA AND THAT WAIT IS YAY PIRACULO BLY TO OBTAIN

THE TEA, BECAUSE HE NAS THENKING IN PROCESSING HAS VISA:

BECAVES SINCE, HE KNELLE WOULD TAKE LONG BE VAS GOING TO

WAIT IX CUB ZOR THE RUSSIAN VIAN AND ROM THERE GO TO THR

UNIR ARMAN, INSTDE SATA THAT THE THING IS THAT. LE HIS AFE

IS YOUAN MASHINGTON BULAIS, GOING TO GET RIGHT NOW TER VIBA

OS THE PERUIT TROL THE USSE TO RITULUTO FIS COUNTRY, BER IS

GOING TO GET HAR TISA LN MASHINGTON BUT HATKG HIS YXEA BHK

COULD BE NONINTED AT AT PLACS.

HERE FOR EXAMPLED OR ANYUEERE

RUSE, BUT THE DONE HAVE TE RIGE NONE STEVIA SAYS OT

COURSY AND THAT BESIDES THEY CANFOR CIYE FINA LITTER BECAUAR

THEY DOX'T KNOT IT KIE VISA ITLL, BE CRATEDES NAY INSIDS BAYS

THAT TAKY TILL ONLY GRANT THS VISA ACCORDING TO TAB LAR RUCILONE

BILVIA BATS THAT THEN TRAT'S THAT SER LE PUE TY HIS CARD.

MAY INBIDE SAYS THAT BESIDES HE IS XOT. DOWN AND EXCUSE BINSEL

FOR THE IRCONYEXIENCISS SILVIA SAYS ITUS ATLY RIGHT AND THANKS

D." ON I OCT 63 CALL AT 1031 HRS TO SOV MIL ATT IN BROKEN

HUSSIAN: EXELO, TITAS AT YOUR PLACE LABT SAFURDAT ADIE

TALKED TO YOUR CONSUL, THRY SLID THAT TINY D SEND A TELSCRAM

---

## Page 8

13-00000

(PAGE 4)

TO VASEINGTON AND VANTXD TO ASX YOU LETHERE, IS ANTTHING

RETRI SOVIET ENLID LIKE TO ASS TOU TO CALL ANOTHER PHONE

NUMBKE KAN OUTSIDE: PLEASE ME SOVLITER PLEASE RITE

IT DOWN 15 60. 55 AND ABX TOE A CONSUL. KAN OUTSIDE:

MEHANK YOU AS BOVISTA

SNILEASE."

ENOV 3 OCTOBER 83 CALLINO SOY MIL ATTE, MAN OUYSIDE

SPRAKS JA BROKEN SPANIBALTHKIHIN SNGLISE TO SOVIT-SAHAILO.

VISA TOS RUSSIAN SOVIETE CALL ON THE, OTEXE PRONE HENAN

OUTSIDEST

УТАМ LOCKING TOR A TIATO CO TO HUSBIA! BOVIET

PLEAS CATT ON THE ELEPHONE OF THOR CONSULA MAY OVASIDE:

WOE, THE CONSUL BOVIEZE ETHATES RIGHT 15, 60:5501 1A

OTTETORIS IONS HOURKE FLEASE,! LIRAVE TO GET A PENCIL, TO

WHITE THE NUNREH, DOIN TELY ISSUE THE VISA THERETES BOVIKT!

MARSEIR

THAT DEPENDS OR TOUT CONVERSATION LEDONIT OROT ABOUT THIS

BUSINESS-PLEASES CALL TAS, ORZICE OF THE CONSUL AND ASK YOUR

QURSTION A MAY OUTSIDE CASES TIE TONESE OF TELSPRONS

MAX, DOYLER GIVE TIE MUTER TO DUE AND 1E1S PRETO

ASE YOR THE CONSUL OF THE BOYIST EMBASSY IN XEXICO.

OUTSIDE: "THANKS. "

3ND OF - MESSAGE

---

