# 104-10216-10340

## Page 1

310410216-10340

SECRET

22-05-

F,

221..-

• Fren

ECRET 2315587

DIR CITE PARI 9995

MA APROO

DESENSITIED.EYKAY PERUMEN UNSIAFU

2386 m29053

RA DIR 94143

1. REFERENCE ARRIVED AT OPPORTUNE MOMENT FOR COMMENT. UNSNAFU 9

DISMISSAN BY UNSNAFU 19 AFTER ARGUMENT AT PERUMEN EMBASSXUYWP MARCH

WHICH CULMINATED WITM U 19 TAKING SHOT AT U 9. SEQUENCE OF EVENTS

AS FOLLOWS. U 9 IELEPHONED SLOADEN EARLY MORNING 23 MARCH AND

STATED HE DETERMINED GO EMUASSY TO "HAVE IT OUT" WITH U 19 WHO,

AS KNOWN TO PARI, HAS BEEN RIDING U 9 PARTICULARLY HARD SINCE

DEPARTURE AMLASH I IN FEB. C/O MET WITH US

AFTER CONFRONTATION

WIIH U 19. U 9 STATED THAI FINAL STRAW WAS AFTERNOON 19 MARCH WHEN

19 ACCUSED U 8 OF STUPIDITY IN FRONT OF HER EMIHOYEES AFTER US

HAD FAMISHED TYPING SEVERAL HUNDRED COCKTAIL INVITATIONS INSTEAD

OF WRITING BY HAND.

I 9 STATES U

HAD SEEN

START TYPING INVITES

AND AHD SAID NOTHING UNTIL HE FINISHED, THUS U 19 ACTION INTENTIONAL.

U S DECIDED WORKING CONDITIONS UNBEARABLE AND MAD TO COME TO UNDER-

STANDING WITH U 19.

SECRET

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECRET 14 9905%

ZO U 9 WENT TO EMBASSY AND GOT U LISOUT OF BED. TOLD U 19 THAT IMEY

MGA 39. 5 59 1,5345-, 58,8-2975 7 9 VORX AND THAT THIS UNDERSTAND-

ING PERSONAL BETWEEN THEM AND MOTHING DO WITH THE REVOLUTION.

U IS COUNTERED BY STAIION U 9 DID NO VORK AS EMBASSY, WAS "DIRTY

KUBARX AGERT® AND THAT HE FIRED. U 9 REPLIED THAT THIS OK BUT "LEIS

SIEP OUTSIDE AND SETTLE THINGS LIKE MEN." U IS REFUSED. AT

THIS POINT U 19 WIFE, UMO HAD BEEN LISTENING OUTSIDE DOOR, RUSHED

IN HYSTERICAL AND DRAGGED U I9 INTO LIVING QUARTERS.

JO U 19 RETURNED ALMOST IMMDDIATELY WITH SMALL AUTOMATIC PISTOL

AND FIRED ONE ROUND INTO FLOOR BY U 9 FEET. STAFF WHO PRESENT

INCLUDINO U 26, U 24 REPLACEMENT, ARD OTHERS, RESTRAINED U 19

FROM SHOOTING AGAIN AND U 9 BEAT MASTY BRETREAT OUT BACK DOOR.

4. C/O PERSUADED US GIVE HIM 38 CAL REVOLVER, WHICH AMLASH 1

RAD GIVEN U 9 FOR USE IN POSSIBLE FUTURE TROUBLE, FOR SAFEKEEPING

I SETICE ON BASIS POLICE MIGHT BE SUMMERD BY 7 IS AND SEARGH

U 9 HOME •

•5• U 9 NET WITH UNSHAFU 14 ON 22 MARCH. U 14 STATED THAT U 19

HAD SAID NOTHING IN EMBASSY THAT MORNING BUT MAD SENT LONG CODED

CABLE TO FOREIGH MINISTRY, UNDOUBTEDLY DEALINGHCITH US CAE.

UNSHAFU 13 WENT WORK BITEMIZE AS USUAL AND APPEARS SHE WILL STAY AT

SECRET

---

## Page 3

14-00000

+ Te

LEAST MEND MARCH. U S HOPES GET UNNER INFO ON WHAT ACTION IS 1E

JAKING VIA U 13 AND U 1A AND POSSIBLY AMBALD 2.

6. DIFFICULT AT THIS POINT PREDICS WHAT. IF ANY ACTION U 19

MIGNT TAXE AGAINST U 9 IN FRANCE. UNDCUBIEDLY DIPLOMATIC PASSPORT WII!.

BE DECLARED INVALID BUT U 9 HAS VALID ORDIMARY PBRUPEN PP ALSO.

U 9 FRIMARILY CONCERNED POSSIBLE EFFECT HIS OUSTER ON ARLASH I ESP

U 19 CHARGE THAT U 9 KUBARK AGENT WHICH MIGHT BLOW BACK ON AMASH 1

AND ASKS IF KUBARK CAN ADVISE APLASH I ABOUT ABOVE DEVELOPPENIS VIA

TRUSTED COURRIER I.E. VISITING MUTUAL FRIEND: IN VIEW COMPLI-

CATIONS APLASH I CASE REQUEST HOS GUIDANCE THIS ASPECT.

%. PENDING FURTHER DEVELOPMENYS, PLAN USE UNSHAFU 9 AS POSSIBLE

UITER DIRECTED AGAINST SUCH TYPES AS USHAGFU 1A. WITH WHO HE

IENDLY AND SELECTED VISITORS• JUDGING U 9 PERSONALITY, INTELLI-

GENCE AND PAST PERFORMANCE, NOT SANGUINE THAT ME WILL MAKE COOD PA

AND AFLASH I EQUITY ALWAYS LURKING IN BACKGROUND. ON BASIS PAST

U 2 AND OTHER SOURCE STATEMENTS, BELIEVE U 19 WAS LOOXING FOR OPPOR-

TUNITY

SACK

AND EVENTS

OF

28

MARCH PROVIDED PERFECT OPPORTUNITY

PREPT THAT

19 LOST HEAD

THE PROCESS.

REQUESTED

CONFIRMATION CUBAN EMBNSIS

---

