# 104-10330-10010

## Page 1

7104-10330-100107

SECRET

15 May 1995

FOR:

FROM:

David Marwell

Executive Director, ARRB

John Pereira

CIA/Historical Review Group

SUBJECT: Mexico City/Sensitive Information

The Directorate of Operations prepared the attached

statement to assist the Assassination Records Review Board.

The statement explains the sensitivity of the records

related to telephone tap operations in Mexico City.

This

may help provide a perspective for further discussions on

the subject.

Thir

Ferrar

John Pereira

Attachment

SECRET

---

## Page 2

13-000,00

SECRET

SUBJECT: Release of Information on Mexico City Teltaps

1. Protection of sources and methods and Liaison equities?

require that references to the Mexico City Station teltap

activity be excised from any documents released under the

auspices of the JEK Assassination Record Collection Act of 1992.

While the teltap activity mentioned in the documents under review

occurred some thirty plus years ago..

Release of any information that would constitute

official USG acknowledgment of the existencerof the joint teltap

operations.

Relations between the Station and the

discouraging

would be affected, with the likely outcome of

from cooperating in similar ventures in the›

future with Mexico City Station.

Official acknowledament of the

existence of the joint teltap in the 1960's would embarrass the

Tgiven Mexico's strong brand of nationalism and (

sensitivity towards the issue of sovereignty vis a vis the United

States.

probably would terminate its cooperation

with the Station on the current joint teltap operation in order?.

¿to be able to defend itself against domestic critics

SECRET

---

