104-10174-10043

Pa

é

p

Deax Mr. Tichborn:

The following is set forth as clarification of your piesent
nisaion, and the procedures which will be followed in the conduct

of it. Please indicate your agreement. by signing below.

A. Operationai .
1. You will be briefed generally on sone aspects of the Cuban
situation while in Washington on this date.

- 2. The major briefing to be given you concerning the local
political eitustioa, security precautions, end more detailed
instructions on your present mission will be undertaken upon your

arrival in Havana.

3+, Upoa arrival’ ia Havana o tourist card will be 4
the Cuban Innigration authorities. You will give your
occupation. in the United States and state that you ere
as 0 “touriat™.

‘he Your ‘nitial coutect Sn Havens, will be with Titi A, (nase a
‘end telephone number ‘attached hereto). When making this call, you :
wilh identify yourself as Fred. Morse.
= $s IDEN A'wilL thén give you the briefing mentioaedin paragraph =
2 above. : i
: 6, IDEN-A will also arraage to put you in contact with about

tvo individuals for the purpose of starting you on your assignment.

It 18 snticipatéd that other leads arid contacts will result from
’ these introductions, both in Havana and the interior.

Ts When talking to any local contacts you make while in Cubs,
your cover story vill be the folloving: that you are taliing to thes
on the bebelf of some (unnamed) Americen businessmen and investors in
- : order to assess discreetly their position and legal resources as concerns
. the revolutionary lews and to determine the possibility for future
financial development ant investments.

(263203
€ “6 )

pty S


i
8. We are providing you vith a letter fron @ cover company
(attached hereto) vbich you vill use only in the case of extreme

“vemergency in the event that you cone to the attention of the Cuban

authorities. ‘This letter states that you are there oa a vacstion
and that this coupsny bss asked you to get some first-hand information
on the subjects menticned in paragraph 7 above vhile there if you

are so inclined, ‘his vill provide you with a plausible excise for
daing Yoth a tourist ani one interested in talking with local
personalities. 7

9. Your mission generally is to talk with as many imovledgeable
persous as possible reganiing the political situation in Cuba, with
special emphasis on the opposition, ite strengths, weaknesses, pleas
ond programs. Of particular intrest 19 the possibility or feasibility,
‘of @ coalescence of these opposition sroime.

B. Administrative

1. While oo your present asoignment you ‘will keep a record of
your expeuses which will/ensble you to submit the required accouting
for funde upon your return. Ih keeping the accounts you should note
times of arrival and departure, detailed notation af expenses snourred,
and the rate of exchange obtained when exchanging U. S. dollars into
local currency.

2. Upon your return you vill gubmit tv accountings. One will
indlude your galery under "services rendered", and also your expenses
and vill be in true nase to the following company:

zy

3. The second accounting vill also include salary and operational
expenses and will be submitted in pseudonym to:
Henry W, Darkin
P. 0. Box 8105
Southvest Station
Washington, D. C.

oy
fas

by
vo gt be baa

Se th ftie
