# 104-10186-10133

## Page 1

104-10186-10133

4

2

3IPV

"NEORMATION REPORT MORATIN RETORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

» ma, oil containa infarmallot allecting to Meltonal Detesiao ol the Vulted States utusin too meaning of la toploungo La

0BC Didi: ir and me the tinnentaton de pereisten of whieh la say mander to sa unauthentard penon le prenible de La

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

COUNTRY Cuba

SUNECT (IRU) MANIE Addla Abdala

REPORT NO.

DATE DISTR

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

CSCI-316/01211-84

16 September 1964

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

DATE OF

Do Not Reproduce

CSCI-3/779,827

31 January 1964

INFO.. 1964

RACE & Washington, D. C.

DATE ACQ. September 1964

FIELD REPORT NO.

MIS IS LNEVALUATED INFORMATION, SOURCE GRADINOS ARE DEFINITIVE APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVIL

SOURCE A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Service until April 1961•

Headquarterg Comment

The following report is one of & series containing personality

information provided by the source and includes supplemental

information from the records of this Agency.

It is requested that the addressees take no action

the

individuals mentioned in the personality reports without

first checking with this Agency.

i entired

on any of

(Inu) MANIF Addis Abdala, also known as "El Moro" and

"El, Polaco," may not be a member of the Direccion Geneial de

Inteligencia (General Directorate of Intelligence - DGI) or the

Departamento de Seguridad del Estado (Department of State

Security - DSE), but he knows many people in the DGI. MANIF

works

In the Ministry of Foreign Relations and source saw him there

In January 1964.

He was previously in Algiers and the United

Arab Republic.

Source has known MANIF for seven or eight years

and considers

him a supporter of the Castro regime.

Source described MANIF as having been born hetween 1931

and 1934, being six feet tall, betwoon 170 and 180 pounds, having

long straight black hair, black eyes, a

right cheek, and of Syrian extraction. "burn or birthmark on his

Headquarters Comment

1.

Aside from the information which appears in the above

referenced report, the records of this Agency do not

contain any additional identifiablo information on MANIF.

STATE

DIA

REP

ARALY

CINCLANT

SECRET

NO FOREIGN

DISSEN

INSA

2

Да-когоко, 95.

I NAVY

TAle

CINCSO #

TENS

1 oce

IINFORMATION

REPORT

INIFORMATION REPORT

NI/SA LONLINELSR

NIL SA HOULINE/MADR

WILSAR

2

CI/LLA

CILRiA

RID/AN

ME

ALLE

-I/MAST

LX-1682

NO PROJECT (AMNUO/1:

CSC1-316/01211-04

TINANT

---

