# 104-10308-10173

## Page 1

104-10308-10173

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

ROUTING

4

• DIRECTOR

OA

* JMWAVE

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

23.599001

2

3

6

MOB

TION I

C/SAS 5

SISeO SA

Aarus- Peterist

• DDP, ADOP, C/CI, C/FI 2, C/FI/D 4, RI/ AN DUMMY VR

Oc added 23 TAN Colt.

SECRET 230020Z

IN 03920

DIR CITE WAVE 0952

EOB

INT

ICS

BiTS

SI

SS

PERS

LOG

Br

SEC

23 JAN 64

SB

AR

CA

RYBAT TYPIC AMTRUNK MHA PRON

1-L INiTIAL DEBRIEFINGS AMTRÚNK-9 COMPLETEU LI JAN, HE AND FAMILY

RELEASED SAME DATE INTO UNWAVE AREA. FURTHER DETAILED DEBRIEFINGS

WILL CONMENCE 23 JAN.

•2° POSITIVE INTEL ON MILITARY OR GOVERNMENTAL AFFAIRS MINIMAL,

MOSTLY BADLY OUTDATED OR HEARSAY. DESPITE RATHER SENSATIONAL INITIAL

STATEMENTS I, E THAT GOC. READY TO FALL AT ANY MOMENT, THAT ENORMOUS

QUANTITIES WEAPONS NOW: IN CUBA, THAT SOVIETS OUT TO GET FIDEL, A-9

UNABLE SUBSTANTIATE SUCH STORIES WITH SOURCES, DATES, AND FACTS.

3. SUBJECT ADMITS FAILURE IN ALL. MHAPRON-TYPE OBJECTIVES, WAS

UNABLE OR UNWILLING REESTABLISH CONTACT WITH FORMER FRIENDS AMONG

REBEL ARMY OFFICERS. OPERATIONAL INFO OF USE TO MHAPRON PROGRAM

THEREFORE ALSO VERY DATED. A-9 DID NOT RECRUIT ANY AGENTS OR BRING

OUT ANY GOOD LEADS FOR OPS PURPOSES.

4. IT LEARNED FROM AMICE-14 THAT AMICE-27 PLANNING INTRODUCE

AMTRUNKS TO AMTRUNK-1• ALTHO A-S HAS BEEN WARNED STERNLY NOT TO

DISCUSS OPS DETAILS WITH ANYBODY, STATION UNABLE PREVENT AMTRUNK-1

AMTRUNK9 MELTING AT SOME POINT. ALTHO A-9 DIRECTED TO KEEP US

PROPERLY LNFORMED ON HIS CONTACTS LOCALLY,

AND HAS BEEN BRIEFED HOW TO

HANDLE NEVS MEDIA INQUIRIES, WISH POINT OUT POSSIBILITY THAT

AMCAPE-12

CROUP &

•SECRET

i96f4.

Parteded too enternatte

75 1..

#= shazartension

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING DEFICE IS POQHIRITED

Copy Nn.

---

## Page 2

13-00000

— CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

IN_

23220 PAGE 2

PERSONALLY -OR THRU AMTRUNK-1, MAY OBTAIN INFO FOR SENSATIONAL-TYPE

ARTICLE SUCH AS ME WROTE LAST SEPT FOL AMICE-27 INTERVIEW.

WITH REFERENCE TO OPS USE OF

NODISEX

SOURCE NO 2901 AM9 'SAYS HE INSTRUCTE

TO CUT OFF OPS CONTACT;

ZUT THA

REFUSED, AND STATED ME WOULD ONLX WORK FOR A-S AND

NOZODY ELSE.

ALD THEREFORE CONTINUED TO USE

WHO DROVE A-9

AND FARILY TO EXFIL POINT AND WAS INTRODUCED BY A-9

ONE OF AMTRUNK

RAILINE AGENTS. JUSI PRIOR TO EXFIL A-9 ALSO_ TRAINED

IN HIS

OWVL AND S/W AND TURNED OVER RECEIVER, PADS AND SUPPLIES TO LATTER.

IN MEETING WITH ODIBEX REPS 21 JAN, INFO, IN PARA 5. ABOVE

PASSED/ JAWAVE STATED HAD NO FURTHER INTEREST USING

PROPOSED

ODIBEX ATTEMPT TO RUN, OR HE BE EXFILTRATED. ODIBEX REP STATED THAT

•HE NO LONGER. INTERESTED iN

EXCEPT TO TRY TO EXFIL TO PRESERVE

SECURITY OF INTERNAL NET. IT THEREFORE AGREED THAT UNWAVE, WITH

SPECIFIC ODIES APPROVAL AT LOCAL LEVEL, WHOULD TRY INITIATE COMMO VIA

OWVL AND SAW WITH

WITH ULTIMATE DEJECTIVE TO EXFIL. I WA

7• DETAILS.BY POUCH.

INDEX•

SECRET

SECRET

8/BR

---

