104-10059-10238)

et ®

[B75 -crs

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD Do Not oidiadaa

SUBJECT: WIROGUE/1 Mission to Kinshasa, December 1960

: On 13 March 1975 a search of available documents was
“ made to determine the reason for the. comment in paragraph 2
of a 17 December.1960 cable from Leopoldville indicating
_ that WIROGUE/1 had attempted to recruit a European to be a
— member of. "an execution squad." The research did not clarify
this matter to any great extent, although some assumptions
can be made on the basis of. circumstantial evidence.

: WIROGUE/1 was an ethnic Géorgiah:- recruited and trained
_for the old _ REDSOGKS program. Although born in the Soviet
“Union, he moved to Western Europe when two years old. He :
_ fought in and as of 1960 was : eR
“essentially stateless. Involved peripherally with the French fala
_ Resistance, he was sentenced to death by the Germans but.
- liberated by the U.S. Army in ip 24s and returned to 10
By 1950 he had managed to rob "a ank of .a sizéable :
sum of money, receive a- prison Sentence and be released five
years iater for good behavior. He was brought to the United
ates. originally for use as. one of two agents for Project
_ aagibatinteit He spoke @ative @)French and fluent Gédrgidn,

German and English :

c By 1960 the- Agericy was involved in a reasonably major
effort to resettle WIROGUE/1, possibly in Mexico, for.the
. mission for which he had been brought to the United States
had been canceled. WIROGUE/1's file indicates that as of
:30 August steps were being taken to resettle him in Mexico.
“However, on-19 September. 1960. two members of Africa Division
met with him to discuss "an operational assignment in Africa
Division." In.connection with this assignment, WIROGUE/1
was to be trained in demolition§ small arms and medical
- immunization. Plans to resettle him in. Mexico were can-.
celed. He was provided a new pseudonym and immunization . { */
. shots. In: October 1960 a cable to Leopoldville stated that

E2 IMPDET
CL BY 018307 ae

Sy - ee
> seener | AY To aes 4oug)


14-00000

S

i _ @ | SECRET

WIROGUE/1 was being prepared for deep cover assignment to
ae Leopoldville late November. Headquarters noted Hat
‘intent: to use him as utility agent in ‘order to” ‘(a) organize
and conduct a surveillance team; (b) intercept packages;

(c) blow up bridges; and (d) execute other assignments
ees - requiring-positive. action. @His utilization is not to be
restricted to Leopoldville. Indeed, he may be subject to
call by other African stations although it is expected for
‘him to be resident in Leopoldville." In this cable WIROGUE/1
was described correctly as an inventor, photographer, archi-
tect, forger and former bank robber. He was judged to be.
ingenuous, observant, shrewd, glib and one who relished
‘intrigue and daring. He was assessed as able to "learn
quickly. and carry out any assignment without regard to
danger." As he was in the United States black, the plan :
was for him to depart black, documented as fo | fee
to surface in West=Germany~ and from. there to procee
his own to Leopoldville. In November 1960 "to prevent his.
identification with the U.S. Government or BKHERALD. and to :
preclude any unexpected recovery of his past which would ce. ee
‘associate him with his pre-BKHERALD life", WIROGUE/1 under- ~ :
went plastic surgery to change the shape” of his*nose? He

was provided a toupee for constant wear and documented as

an| \who had never been to the United States. Cover
a présence in Leopoldville was to be eo
possibly that of a eae A rather lengthy assess=  -
ment of his charactér tan be summed up by saying he was ‘
able to rationalize any action if he had strong case offi-
cer direction. Training records for WIROGUE/1, subsequent

to his engagement by the Africa Division, indicate training
only in SW,

WIROGUE/1 arrived in Leopoldville ‘on 2 December 1960.

His case officer gave him the following instructions 06 (a) :
to build cover possibly by opening eta and
(b) to try to spot persons for a surveillance team, intel

assets, particularly in Oriental province, and para~military
assets. - Almost immediately upon arrival he ran into QJIN}
who told the station that WIROGUE/1 looked like an intel-
ligence agent. In attempting to recruit QJWINY for his

"execution squad", WIROGUE/1 exceeded his instructions to Bec
avoid making approaches without checking with peobenouaaee :
station.

vA

Zipd ~ arn
alP SEGRET


14-00000

i‘ -In January 1961 Leopoldville asked for authority to i
permit WIROGUE/1 to take @aingwessons,so that the station
wae: could be used for claridestine missions ye a
registered aRAQELAN/1' s name). Station acknowledged dis-

‘advantage of crossing WIROGUE/1 and QPLAM/1 operations :
o2@YOPLAM/1 was never involved in any assassination schemes). oa
. Heddquarters approved £i¥ing.essons.os By March 1961 WIROGUE/1

had spittht the position o [to the|
: with the nd was almost immediately used
forthe rpose of gathering i i § on the :
a By April 1961 thd bre attempting use
“Rint tain arms and. instructors in We rn Europe. B quae)
- April. 1961 WIROGUE/1 was teaching shel heb

: although he himselfchad learned only several

tlier and was readi anuals’ at night :
to stay ahead of his class. In July 1961 WIROGUE/1 departed -.
Leopoldville because’ he. had run into difficulty obtaining

a residence permit. He was terminated in September 1961,

In a summary of his activity in August 1961, Leopoldville :
Station said WIROGUE/1 knew very little about station activ- ..-. ~
“ities. : ‘ : : a

It is the writer's opinion that WIROGUE/1 was recruited
for his Congo assignment because of his third country national
background in order to establish a support mechanism in
Leopoldville. At the time the Congo was in chaos, BKHERALD .
had’ few assets and there was some likelihood that the polit: -
ical situation would degenerate quickly. The Station possibly :
also wanted to have a latent para-military capability and. :
“WIROGUE/1's background and previous training for the REDSObS&
_ program made him a suitable candidate. This is, of course,

conjecture. - Gee : ia
Perhaps pertinent is an October Aha ee of -

WIROGUE/1 who had been turned over to i or resettling

“in 4 Resettling him had turned out to be an enormous

problem. he October 1964 cable notes that WIROGUE/1 had

. an intense desire for intelligence service and enjoyed the

role of lower echelon action agent. Although he threatened

“to go to work for the French I%S, it was not believed that he Hough.
-bimessé would be accepted. The assessment indicated there ,
was little flap potential with WIROGUE/1 since he knew little

IP FF Ce


| @ Scene eo |

about the Agency. In particular, in the Congo he was aware
only of the COS's contact with ‘contact , WIROGUE/1 spent
most of his time trying to develop contacts and was not

directly involved in_any particular operation.

