104-10308-10492

fot BB BLOBS AAV a cre states of america

OUTGOING “SASS
: : 7 wa
Charge: Classification Control: ROUTINE

Date: 12 DEC 63
Secreta
Dist: 1 — sic

1 ~ CaRON
~ REPORTS _CHRON
(D> faonvt 3 PRC
Got

Ze-(2 WeAY yg
DIR INFOJBERS, Pan re ‘

INTEL PREUHEN (USK

SUPDATA. ZRWAHDO. iapevoUr 3.) ser Gok b0a8

FILED / 27° / " DS ANB Hac Me

REPORT CLASS SECRET NO FOREIGN DISSEM ;
(8QS INSERT FIELD SYMBOL AND NUMBER) VOR SB-3 1658 46
COUNTRY, CUBA ;
SUBJECT, SPECIAL CUBAN ALERT MEASURES RESULTING FROM
ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT KENNEDY.
DOT, 9 DECEMBER 1963
DA, .9 DECEMBER 1963
APPR, 2
SOURCE, CUBAN OFFICIAL WHO REPORTS REGULARLY AND IS FULLY
TESTED, HE HAS DEMONSTRATED MATURITY, JUDGMENT,
. DISCERNMENT AND ACCURACY IN HIS PAST REPORTING,”
1, CIRCA 2 DAYS AFTER THE ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT
JOHN F, KENNEDY, CUBAN DIPLOMATIC MISSIONS ABROAD BEGAN TO
RECHIVE A SERIES OF MESSAGES PLACING THEM ON A SPECIAL ALERT
STATUS, THESE MESSAGES WERE OBVIOUSLY DUE TO APPREHENSION
BY THE CUBAN GOVERNMENT THAT THE CIRCUMSTANCES SURROUNDING
THE ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT KENNEDY MIGHT LEAD TO BOSTILE
ACTIVITY DIRECTED AGAINST THE MISSIONS, THE DIPLOMATIC
MISSIONS, AMONG OTHER THINGS, WERE EXHORTED TO EXERCISE
EXTREME VIGILANCE, TO MOUNT A NIGHT AND DAY WATCH OF MISSION
PREMISES, TO BE CERTAIN THAT THERE WERE “NO COMPROMISING
DOCUMENTS ON THE PREMISES," AND TO BE ON GUARD AGAINST HOSTILE

REPRODUCTION FROM THIS COPY Is

Cay mit “CUES seyators PROHIBITED UNLESS “UNCLASSIFIED”.
ighrafle-address messages to the Devartmeft cf ij npr ate to the classification of the message) witout
aon “Type "By Pouch" after the sed pouch in envelope marked "For OG/T™.

ea eles it ia ee beanie


13-00000 + . . : ‘ 1 PUIGIEM QCIVILG UE LG
. St 1 - eel | ve WAL | Digna States of America

7 OUTGOING
- : B
Charge: Classification Control:
: PAGE TWO Date:
PROVOCATIONS.

2, ONE CHIEF OF MISSION, WHO, FOLLOWING HIS USUAL
PRACTICE, REQUESTED BY TELEPHONE PERMISSION TO ACCEPT A
LONG-STANDING INVITATION TO VISIT A COUNTRY FRIENDLY TO
CUBA, WAS TOLD THAT HE MUST FORMALLY SUBMIT HIS REQUEST
BY CABLE, HE DID 50 ON 29 NOVEMBER, BUT IT WAS NOT UNTIL |
6 DECEMBER THAT HE RECEIVED THE AUTHORITY TO QUIT HIS POST. .

3. AS OF 9 DECEMBER THERE BAD BEEN NO INDICATION FROM
PAVANA. THAT THE ALERT ORDER WAS TO BE CONSIDERED REVOKED,

4. FIELD DISSEM, NONE,

ORIG: MIDDAUGH 3 RELEASED s

cae REPRODUCTION FROM THIS COPY IS
Classification PROHIBITED UNLESS “UNCLASSIFIED”.

tn -addre es ss to the Department can be diverted to pouch (anpropriate to the classification of the message) without
TEES a a Fat BE
,

ep a i
