04047-40249

ROUTING AND RECOKD SHEET

"there. apes.

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
‘Do Not Reproduce

SO RIOEL

reorcene ry

Seer ear
: pa

| oer SF \poet 09938

SECRET

~

“

Bee B soe @


DISPATCH |

1O""  cale?, Wi Division
"0 Calef of Station, Habana

Catef of station, ratloa etsy] ee
Activities of Juan Eatlio HUNEZ Portuonds, Cuban
Exile and Oppositicn Leoder

MARKED FON DIEING.
hO BUOLTING BQUIFED

(BOLING CAN BE HUDGED
#7 QuAUHIO HO. DEK ONLY

BteSeb
2. Juan Eni liOQuneZ% Portusndo, Cuban politician
Yegine of Fulgencio BATISTA, who is now in exile "ey
Jemler of the -oppcsition.to he revolutionary government of Hite} CAGTRO |
hus, came to Panama from Lima on 10 october 1959 and Tei or Guatemala
on 19 Uctober 1959. : fe itreaerarersteseneattaria

The sensationalist press notices (Attachnent. A) ‘that appeared in La
Nacton, a Panama City daily tabloid whose oppositionist policies carry
Over tO pro-CASTRO/Cuban revolution editorial coment and reporting,
constitute. the extent of local publicity for NUNEZ Portuondo's visit
here. However, the local ODIBEX intelligence reporting unit acquired,
ani reported on 27 October 1959 to its superior office, this office, and
local ODACID, information (Attachment B) attributed directly to NUNEZ
Portuondo. _

3. It undoubtedly was NUNEZ Portuondo's sojourn in Panama end his meeting
vith government officials that contribute to expressions of concern by

(UJ, Station 1fats0A) eources over Cuban policy tovard Panama. One
09 ‘of that concern was a report (Attachment C) that the head of the
lof HYFRACH]adaressed to the Minister of Govern

a

went and Justice,

ot io T

4, When{ityroraes13-8] passed fthe. statis] a cozy of his.
said that the source of the informition was SANCHEZ (fnii,
described as a BATISTA exile living in Panana City; and S;NCHEZ' source

. Was 9 person jvho trayels between Panaza and Cuba. When passing the

reporf, [E(POTIESIS-BJeald alco that SANCHEZ hod e connection with NUNEZ
Portuonds whom the) iI¥FRACE] ganization regarded as the head of the Cuban
opposition, and that NUIZ Portuondo had informed President Ernesto DE LA
GUARDIA Jr. and Hector VALDES Ferrabone, Minister of Government and
Justice, that strong action against Panama was being planned Guba.
After on initial end several folloy-up queries to|R/POrsEsis-8| for identi-
fication of SANCHEZ, PYPOTHESIS-8,)'after several of checking, af-
firved that he had leorned that the persoa in question wes Jose
Ranire=,-shon{Stationtrecords show is a forner lieutenant in the Cuban
National Police, ‘pie ‘came to Pehama on 19 January 1959 (reported in:

(e8ci) 4303). :
jo- OF tet

3 hed CO Boteg:
Edvard G. Bensing

9 Novender 1959
1: A,B,C, (es noted)

D-Files w/atts. A,3,0.

non /ygs

24,2)

OAs


ATTACWERT A ro frie

, -Panaina Es Ahora
j ‘La Racin El Centro De la

~ CONTRA FIDEL CASTRO;

wo | Nines Portuondo Organizé. Aqui
El) Movimiento Contra EF. Castro

La ciudad de Panama ha sido wscogida coma eje a centre de la contrarevelucioa cubsna,
ider batutiane Emilio N Garr Postuando, ecgan datos logrados y confte-

incién™.
Portuonda, ampliamente conocido en Panama, donde actus come Embaja-
i a, permanccic siete dias como bucaped del Hotel El Paoama, dea-
dds establecer contacto con cierte sector
suvpatia hacia la revolucion del Dr. Fidel Cas

ca ha demostrado

ica cubana comsideran que la presidm del Gobier-
de Mise como centre de conspiraciéa contra

escugw a Panama.

¥ sobre todo fos servicing de intellgencia

de ta presencia ea questra capital y de
ado.



de Beyucs.
enter inferinantes dijeron qae fire s-
Wegados, ndicau

iciue Ia campeia tears

per Mites Pectvoeds contra el cobrerny rr a

fucionacie de Cuba.

_

“TSE INSTALARAN EN PANAMA PARA
COMBATIR AL GOBIERNO DE CUBA

fa Nacion.

. durves 22 de Octubey 30 Hae

Alvededos de) dieci personae — promi:
nentes figuras durante la dictadura de Battate—
arcibaron antier a Panama. Fuentes extinct
siales informarun que entre eras personas te
encuentra ef Samoso torturador Venture, qvicn
ve des entrever és el je!t del grupo recréa Mee
ada,

Te Hegada det gress en referencia tiene,
segue loo informantes, rv ocién ton le compana
Portuonde

Ate sw inesg
mancecie coma hudsped uel Hotel Panama fil.
tow

Pree a ty Pog. tee ve


seeuser 28 ierceestice
+ (C} Os 25 Setoter 1959, confidential sources of U's office bold an interview
vith Br, Batlto WNIZ&*tuondn, leader of tan Cuber oc “coat extles. Alen. precan!
vais Kr, Pafaal ig Bavarre, Cites oneinelav of Muza and moorary Consul of ~:
feneaa fa Fort Téale, Florida, ihe following infomation vas fumishnd by maa |
Guring the iatersiew: E ‘

Br, MUMEZ initiated the conversation by stating that HE hed Just completed
4 tour of fury, Chile, Argeotina, Uruguay.end Brasil durin; vatch M established
personal contact with the Preeidents, Acari Yorees' leadory, oxi other pervonalitis
of the sforexmtioned oumtries in aa acfort to enliot their moral and aaterial

support in his endsavors. H

ae Th feru, President Yanuel Prado infooed Dr, MINE that his Goverment ie
very perturbed by the activities of Ue Cuban diplaumte in fern - The Peruvian
Ooverment wis abla to dateraine that @ recent strike ataged by bank voriara recalved
finaneial support from the Cuben Rubassy fn Lina.

i Ia Chile, Prealdent:Jorge_Alessandrt complained of meddling by Cuban
plomats in the labor and peasant srremats of that country. . -

‘President Arturo Frondixt of Anntina edvieed Rr, ANEZ that the
Fepsroussions of the Cuben revolution are already being felt ia tt comtry, ese
pectally wtafents, peasants aod vorie:rs, The Argmntine Secretary of War,
Oeneral (Fert

Alberto Larcher, tnlé br. MMS2 that, in hia oplatca, the United
States kas but two choices ‘Cubas To get rid of the Pidel Castro regime nov, by

forca if necessary; or fight Soviot troops on Cuban ead] in the future.

‘Tuo Brarilian Prasident, Jusceltoo DDt' yk, axpressed alam for the
fasbility of the United States Ooveramat to disjoce of tue pres? Cuban regime,
weteh ta the main source of umeat in the Westem Eantsphere.

Dr. EUNEY stated tit tha Presidents of the abovermtionad countries add ..!
their silitary anf Giplowmtic leaders indicated that they are villing to support the .
United States in axy move, whether it be military, diplomatic or ecovasic, that wuld
@seiioate forever the threat of Comuntat es represented by the Fidel Castro regimes

Dr. HSHZ contiousd by saying that he has Gn appointeest vith the President
of Fama, Broesto fo la dr., in vaieh he vould iaform the President that
preparsticas are made for a nev inveaton of Pansna. This tine the
invaders will be better equipped ond orgmised then curing the ill-fated landing
&t Plays Soloreda in April ¥



sonsecr: 2a rors, Ss mae (0) &7 Cot 59
BOL 501999 + eee

ps aeeee to the internal aftustion in Cuba, Dr. RUXEZ otated tmt the “
Gountyy is uncer the Uightest of dictatorships. Free enterprise is fast disappear

fo evident averyubere. Soviet ageots are operating freely througnout the coumtry
God are opmly infiltmtiag the And Forces, Goverment agemcies and tho propagaada
modia., The Cubs oazital has beouns the nev headquarters of the Soviet spparmtus vise
ain ie to subvort all of Latin Amrica,

Dee

The aati-Castoo orguatsation which Dr. MULKZ beads Ins 20,000 y parti sana insta
Cuba vaiting for weapons vith vaich to start a revolt. The great majority of theese |
partioans are fommr meubers of tha disbanded Cubaa Regular Arerd Porces. Dr. JUxEE'
orgmisation hna sufficient fimde to purc=sce enough woapone tn Spain to am thee
groups} bower, the Spanish Govenuamt vill not release the veapons ustil the United
States Govemment gives ite approval. .

‘The French Goverosent has offered Dr. MMZZ facilities to train perooumel in
‘the {alanis of Martinique or Guadaloup> in the French vest Indics. ‘The Governments
of Guatemala and Panama bave also mde sinilar offers, HKovever, Dr, BUNEZ believes that
Say amed invasion of Cuba at te yeesent tine 16 bout to fall because the Cuban people
@re being thoroughly indoctriagted and subjected to o very inteasive propaganda progres

by the Castro regim, while tho or zoaition bas been comiletely gaged. Br. BOREL furth fortter,

Stated that he alco bellsves thet any revolt vill fail uzlese the Cuban people ere sede
eogaivant of vhat is going on benind the scones and the threat that the Commmdet ise
Filtration means to Cuba and her future. Dr. MINEZ eaid that, prior to any military
operation, the Cuban people mast be subjected to a contimous eomterpropagmida

in Wuch the octivities of the Soviet agents and their protectors and collaborators are
exposed. ‘This promganda must aloo attempt to destroy the myth videhineteen erated
areund Fidel Castro's personality. In order to eccaplish this proJect, Br. I8KZ'
orgsniaation needs urgently u radio station powrful enough to cove> the sutire Cubs
‘erritory. The Governant of ts Douinicen Be;blic, through ite radio stations, is
@lready conducting that type of propaganda. . Rovever, the Dowisican erforts sre
“Ameffective dbersuse of the contort in ufiech the Cubans bold enything Doginicen end,
therefore, the propaganda originuting in the Bearinican Repilic is solf-defusting, -

‘The Goverments of Guatenala and Panawa have offered Dr, MUKFE their
essisteace in operating this mélo station fron their @eveitery. Howver, Fone has
em ruled cut becmuze of ite proximity to the United States positions ia the Canal
foao. Br, FUNEZ does not desire to use radlo facilities withia the oontinental United
GBtates to preclude HIS organisation being brended as a tool of the United States or any
tatervational oubarrascwnt to the United States Goverment. ‘Sim ideal solution to this
Prodlém vould be @ 50,000 watt abort wave radio tronscitter installed aboard & ship
similar to thoes used by the Voloe of America in its broadcast beamed to the Iron

Curtata countriss. (8-3)

os ATTACHENT B 10 fizPi}og38



Coto neraps

SUBJECT: IAMEL Portuosde, Br. Entlio (0)
BOT M159 \ 7

(c) ‘mie mocting vas affected at the suggsetion of Br. Bemanto
of Justioe Gsring the aininistration of deposed Cuban Preaident

Caremes is reaiding as an exile in Panam.

{u) 02, USASCARIB COMMENT: Br. Inilio BUNEZ Portuonde is a soa of the late :
Bailio Res, ong of the berces of the Cubaa revolutionary ware agninet

Byain, Dr. SOME: bas bees a Coogrecsnen aad a Senator in Cuba esveral times,

Asbanoador to Pansma, ani Chier of the Cuben Delegation to tha Lolted Fations

from 1952 to 195b. HE was Preaidant of the Security Couneil during the Eongarion _

revolt. . ~

3
uth


TRANSL TICN

22 October 1959

COSPIDENTIAL REPORT

We have learned fron a good and reliable scurce that the Cuban governaent
is thinking of discharging 5,000 members of the revolutionary army at the

end of November or beginning of December 1959. "he end purpose of tls is to
have the discharged man take part in invasions of Panana and the Doaiaican
Republics the Cuban gevernzent ‘could not be blamed for such acticns, since the
nen would not be menders of the regular Cuban Army. The invasions will be
carried out simultaneously, in order to obstruct any quick action by the
Organisation of Anerican States (OAS), The same source indicates that 3,000
woll-armed men will take part in the invasion of Panama, and that the men
will come here under the comuthd of Commander Ernesto (*Che") GUSVARA, who

At appears received precise instructions while tm his trip to Egypt. It
appears that intentions are first to take over Panama, and, after that, tou
undertake an international campaign for NATICNALIZIM0.the Panama Canal, Por
the latter campaign, they will have tie support of several Latin American and
several European countries, a3 well as of several Panamanian political groups,

including the Tercer Partido Nacionalista which already has declared itself

sicns come about,

in that regard, The save source indicates that, before the int
there will be an open publicity campaign to pave the way and to produce
internal upheavals in Panama and the Dexinican Republic. It appears that the

Anvasions will receive material, financial, and other support from the

Venaguelan governnent,
NOTR1 This information ean be verified by /PSPRDW/ intelligence services
and AEACID7 offices in the countries concernede In tine, it will be seen
Af the ections noted at the beginning of this report have happened, and, if

So, it will indicate that the rest will come about in due course. The
informant tells us that Cuba, Venesuelan, and Panamanian Cowmnists will take

@ very active part in everythings

