# 104-10185-10177

## Page 1

104-10185-10177

FOR

MATION REPORI INFORMATION REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

his material containa Information alecting the Nanonal Deless of the Jaised Sties within the mending of the Haploange LaTE THI

1, USC. Bera 19J and 794, the transmission of retriaison o? which in any manner t an unauthoried germon is prohibiled by int

S-E-C.- R-E-T

NO FOREIGY DISSEM

COUNTRY

Cuba

REPORT NO.

CSCI-316/02294-65

SUBJECT

Political Attitudes and

Aftiliations in the Direccion

Gereral de Inteligarcia (DGI)

DATE DISTR.

NO. PAGES

1 June '1965

2

REFERENCES

DATE OF

INFO.

PLACE.&

DATE ACQ.

1964

RETÚRN TO CIA

Do Not Po prod oly

SOURCE:

Washington, D.

C.

(February 1965)

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATIÓN SOURCE GRADINES ARE CEFINITIVE

APPRAISAL DE CONTINT IS TENTATIVE

• A former Cuban

IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Service untiT April 1964.

1.

Although there are many membors of the Direcelon Gercial do

Inteligencia (General Directorate of Intelligence r

appear interested in and favorable toward:the Communist Party,

Souice knows of only

Saul GONZALEZ,

'allas" Denis" Paanuel VEGA Perez, allas "are

Viera"; and Felix SUAREZ; alias

"Federico Sant testeban".

was a sort of political adviser in the DGI operations

but insisted he was not a commissar, but, rather,

Although Source and the

other officers

would tease SUAREZ by calling him

"Comisario", SUAREZ greatly

resented the term and actually physically attacked Source for

Every Saturday morning at 8:30,

political indoctrination meeting which all personnel were

Source was habitually late to these

sessions,

and although he was given penaltles for his obvious

disaffection, he never paid any attention to them.

personnel Source knew were perfectly willing to talk politics

among themselves but in a rather desultory way; the discussions

never went on very long.

2.

Apparently during 1962, there had been considerable sentiment

for Anibal ESCALANTE ard his faction, the Partido Socialista

Popular (PSP), but in 1964 the PSP group was disrupted and

the real loyalty was to Fidel CASTRO rather than to the Party.

S-E-C-R-E-T

S0 FOREIGN DISSEM

5

4

3

2

STATE

| DIA

ARMY

REPCINCLANT

CINCSO

NAVY

I&NS

AIR

INSA

OC*

I FBI 2

(Mose: Field distribution Indicated by "#")

INFORMATION REPORT INFORMATION REPORT

WHC/CS

HIS/NC

WHERE

WHC/OS

WHC/HAVE

TOTALS WHIC 8

ICILLA

THEREDRI

JE

3UE

WASHI

RID/AN

LX-2427; LX-2428

NP

(AMMUG-1)

CSCI-316/02294

1O00ROIMATIMG ROMATIME RELEASE

(1), WE 1 (1), CIA, RID 1 '

LIAISON #

T9-3-I

FORS NO. 1

OBSOLETE PRIVIOUS EDMONS.

(90)

---

## Page 2

1d-0d0d

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

• 2 -

CSCI-316 02294-65

3.

let Co to Ta ton tree the i no the ps act

When ESCALANTE

aken over by Ramiro VALDES, as a CP member, and he was

lescribed as a true representative. The DGI operated

strictly on orders from the Party, conveyed through VALDES.

Membership in the Partido Unido Revolucionaria Socialista

(PURS) made life easier and entry into the DGI more simple.

3etween August 1963 and April 1964, all new personnel hired

by the DGI came from the Union de Joveres Comunistas (Union

of Young Communists - UJC), which was PURS-oriented.

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FORETGN DISSEM

---

