# 104-10160-10026

## Page 1

104-10160-10026

OZONET

11 June 1976

MEMORANDU! FOR: Chief, Security Analysis Group

SUBJECT

LEMMING

577479 224

Gerald Patrick

On 9 June 1969

contacted Staff and Operations Branch/Operational Evaluation

Section for information concerning Gerald Patrick HEMMING.

was referred to the writer, who is holding the HerMING

file.

When

contacted the writer,

advised that he

is the action officer for a cable from

the

Station

reporting an assassination plot on the life of President

LAUGERUD of Guatenala.

was unfamiliar with the case of

Gerald Patrick

HEWING and had not as yet reviewed the 201 file

on HEMMING.

was requested to alert

and JMWAVE

to the below mentioned cable and to provide the writer with a

copy of the report coming in from the

Station.

2.

provided the writer with a copy of the cable

(IN 944357,

which is attached. In substance,

_;, dated & June 1976),

the cable reflects that

circa 8 June 1976

a Guatenalan source, with the knowledge of

Guatemalan President LAUGERUD, provided the

Station

a written report, and a detailed briefing, concerning a plot

to assassinate President LAUGERUD.

According to the informa-

tion the plot was to have been carried out on 15 September

1975; however, 'one of the major conspirators, Jorge Antonio

"Cokie" ZIMERI Safie left Guatemala in August 1975 as a result

of an attack upon his, ZIMERI's, life. ZIMERI has been living

in Miami since August 1975.

3.

According to the report, the National Liberation

Movement was involved with ZIMERI

in the assassination plot

and ZIMERI in turn was

involved with two Americans, brothers,

Robert and Gerald Patrick HEMMING. - The

HEMMING brothers

assisted ZIMERl in acquiring arms, among other things, which

were flown to Guatemala in a small aircraft.

The report also

claims. that ZIMERI has close relations with police officials

in Miami and New Orleans.

205T

EZ IMPDET

CL BY 063994

F81-0351D0643

---

## Page 2

13-00000

NOTE: The

also included

information the

had received

from

on

• 8 June.

said that he

had seen providing information on ZIMERI to the

Guatenalan government for the past six months or

50.

He claimed that two Americans were involved

with ZIMERI. one of them who runs a guard service

in Miami.

did not mention names but

described one of the Americans as about six feet

four inches and weighing about 230 pounds.

4.

The Guatemalan report of the assassination plot ends

with five requests for information by President LAUGERUD:

a. Is ZINERI still in the United States?

b. In the event ZIMERI is not in the United

States legally, deport him to Guatemala.

c.

Is ZINERI recruiting merceraries in the

United States for possible use in

Guatemala?

d.

DoeS ZIMERI receive any kind of preferen-

tial treatment by U. S. authorities which

permit him to carry firearms, as well as

to purchase arms and ammunition for

shipment to Guatemala?

e. Any information on Robert and Gerald

HEMMING?

5.

On 19 June 1976

advised

that DDO is referring the entire matter to the FBI and State

Department.

6. Office of Security indices are negative in pertinent

variations of the name of ZIMERI or Robert HEMMING.

1. From the name, physical description,

activity, and

alleged employment, it is apparent that Gerald Patrick HEMMING

is identical with the subject of Office of Security file

429 229, who has been described as six-foot five, 250 pounds,

who is

a notorious mercenary and soldier of fortune and who as

of May 1975 was ostensibly employed by a private investigation

company, TEPCOL Security (Office of Security--no record) in

Miami, Florida.

2

---

## Page 3

13-00000

8.

Gerald Patrick HEMMING is well known to this Agency,

the Office of Security Miami Field Office, and JWAVE.

On

numerous occasions since at least the early 1960's, HE MINC

nad claimed Agency affillation when in fact there has bes

none -

The most recent incident wherein HEMMING claimed such

affiliation was in May 1975 when he volunteered his services

to the Drug Enforcement Administration.

Gerald Patrick HEMMING

is a long-time cohort of Frank Anthony STURGIS (SF#353 459),

the late 1950's HEMMING and STURGIS, both former U.S. Narines,

joined

• Fidel CASTRO in Cuba but returned shortly thereafter

claiming disillusionment with the CASTRO cause.

Soon thereafter,

STURGIS organized a group of mercenaries for Caribbean and

Central American activities which he named the International

Anti-Connunist Brigade.

A reported sub-unit of this "Brigade"

(the backers of whom have never been fully established) was

named the Intercontinental Penetration Force, headed by Gerald

Patrick HEMMING.

9.

For an appreciation of the possible ramifications of

a Guatemalan government expose of this assassination plot

involving HENMING, you are referred to attachments to instant

memorandum, to wit: a memorandum by the writer dated 10 June

1975 in the name of Frank STURGIS and Everett Howard HUNT, JI.;

and an'extract from a book published in early 1976 written by

Michae? CANFIELD and Alan 3. WEBERMAN. The book Coup ennedy

in America--The CIA and the Assassination of John F.

and AlaR Published in

is a diatribe against the Agency and attempts to link the Agency

with the assassination of President KENNEDY. One of the major

links attempted by the authors

through Everett Howard HUNT,

JI. to Frank STURGIS to Gerald Patrick HEMING to Loran Eugene

HALL.

• Loran Eugene HALL was a member of HEMMING's Interconti-

nental Penetration Force.

Loran Eugene HALL received nationwide

publicity in 1967 when New Orleans District Attorney "Jim"

GARRISON alleged that HALL (and the Intercontinental Penetration

Force) was involved in the assassination of President KENNEDY

and that members of this unit were connected with CIA. GARRISON

shortly thereafter dropped his interest in HALL, but it is

interesting that he did so after Gerald Patrick HEMMING and

another cohort, Robert K. BROWN, joined GARRISON's investigation.

Jerry G. Brown

Deputy Chief

Security Analysis Group

Atts

SECHET

---

