Astion Required: For Your Information

1, -Following are the results of the debriefing of AMMPAUNA-14 in
the JMWAVE area from 22 November to 2 December 1963.

2. AMFAUNA-14 did not leave her apartment all day Sunday, 6 Oct.
fm Honday, 7 October, she went to work as usual, When she arrived, she
found a letter waiting for her which had been forwarded to her office
froa her accommodation address; it was in AMPAUNA-1's handwriting and
eontained nothing of any interest, so ene was sure there was a secret
writing message on it,

3, At 1255 hours two men arrived at the office, one about 45 years
old and short, who from his appearance might have been a bus driver,
and the other a very young dark-skinned man. They waiked into the
office vestibule and told the guard that they wanted to see AMFAUNA-14,
The guard came into the office to give AMFAUNA-14 the message, and the
two men followed right behind. They told AMFAUNA-14 that she had to
come with them to identify an arrested person, AMFAUNA-14 said that
gho would have to ask her supervisor for permission to leave, because
at was not yet closing time. She turned to go back into the office,
and the two men followed her in, The supervisor told her that it
would be all right for her to go, but said that she should check in by
phone if there were any difficulty. AMFAUNA+14's father and uncle,
both of whom work in the same office, asked whether they could come
with her, The men said no, because she would be coming right back;
they said they were taking her to "G-2" headquarters in La Vibora.

Continued..eoe-
108

Distribution:
Orig & 2 - Chief, SAS

IN PEK-X
CS Copy



14-00000_

‘awe AUNA=i4 tried to” ‘disipo
“grom AMFAUNA-1 by leaving, 4 k of a fellow employee
together with some potatoes and a carrot for.cover, but the men would
“not let her. She did, however, nage to destroy a page from her note-

book containing telephone numbers.

5. At the DSE headquarters in Villa Maristas, AMFAUNA-14 was
turned over to a militiawoman who had her strip and performed a body
& search on her, She was fingerprinted and photographed and her biogyaph
data were taken down, after which she was locked in a cell which had
an adjoining private bath. Nothing else of importance happened for
the rest of the day.

6. During her four-day detention period, AMFAUNA- 14 4 was bandied

t . on .
by the PON mine Dee officers: = ¢./7.¢ Be CoMe EE aca toa
“hyde aera Francisco MABAD: AMTAUNA-14 believes that this is hie

al name, yoduce himself, but she saw the name on her
release sapere which | he signed, He was born about 1918 and is about
8*'4" tall, weighs about 160 pounds, and haz a fat build, aquiline nose,
greenish eyes, dark skin, grey-brown wavy hair, rough laborer's hands,
and two teeth missing from the lower jaw, He smokes both cigars and
cigarettes, his manner was soft and kindly, and AMFAUNA-14 believes
he is probably poorly educated, He is married, but AMFAUNA-14 did not
arn whether he has children or what his address is. He wears civiliai
“plothes and drives a black 1956 Pontiac with a grey roof. Discussing
e AMCOG household, AMFAUNA-14 was told by Pedro
brother_of Justo CARRILLO) that Pedro knows ABAD.
KBAD is part Jewish and\an old Communist who worked

behalf of Fidel iT uring the Batista

@mariod. Pedro CARRILLO thinks that ABAD may now have some regrets
about the course he has taken,

(>) "Carlos" aka "Samuel": AMFAUNA-14 does not know hie true
name, He was born about 1942 or perhaps a little earlier, He is re
about 5'6" tall, weighs about 150 pounds, and has a muscular build, ©
drooping eyelids, light olive skin, wavy chestnut hair with a widows
peak. He is a nervous pacer, and walks with his head bent forward and
tilted slightly to one side. An expression which he frequently used
was "0.K." pronounced "OKAH" with the accent on the first syllable.

He told AMFAUNA-14 that he had been a student in the Commercial School
of Havana, that he had worked clandestinely under the Batista regime,
had been arrested by Col, Esteban VENTURA Novo, had been released due
to the influence of his father, and had gotten out.of the country with
the aid of the Méxican Ambas lor to Cuba, coming then to the United
States. He drives a 1959 black and white Chevrolet Corvair, wears
civilian clothes, and carries a pistol, sometimes a .45 and sometimes
a .38, AMFAUNA-14 believes him to be a 100% Communist, She thinks he
may have been somewhat better trained than Francisco ABAD and may have
been somewhat superior in rank, although this was never clearly evident;
There seemed to be a little professional jealousy between the two men.
If she told one man something which she had been unable to remember
for the other, the second would show signs of jealousy or resentment.
"Carlos" subsequently told AMPAUNA-14 to phone 61-4319 and ask for
“Samuel” when she wanted to reach him. She phoned him at this number
about ten times in all, The phone was alwaye answered by the same
woman, except for once when a boy answered and then called for his
mether to come and take the Phone, AMFAUNA-14 would ask for "Samuel"
aud the woman would invariably reply that he was not there. AMFAUNA-
14 would then ask the woman to take a message for him to please call
"Dolores," The woman would always reply “Yes, Comrade." Discussing
this person later within the AMCOG household, AMFAUWA-14 was told by
Isree "Carlos" sanveiPapoDri8. eSY
out aX ve! C/

Comment: The physical arips" does not
, match that’ of Bamuel RODILES Plana, ees
listed in the 1962 Havana telephone dir to one Maria Antonia
CARCANO Fano Asoo atctas df, Gapbianca, Savant) WAVE traces on this
é,

5 eR
SE uv a

PHONE <-N TIC

~
[ee AG



om Na va-a0ve |

name include HCSA-098096 of 23 April 1963 showing. that one Maria CARCANO
Arujo (born 7 December 1935) travelled to Chile in March and April 1963
on @ diplomatic passport, An AMOT report of 27 September 1962 mentions
one Antonia CARCANO Araujo as a communist in charge of vigilance, and
l4ving at 47 Artes St., Casablanca. There also appears to be a Maria
ARAUJO (born about 1908) who ig an old-time Communist living at Artes
47, AMPAUNA-1 has been given the names of several former residents of
this neighborhood in hopes of finding a relative of the CARCANO or
ABRAUJO families whose physical description matches that of “Carlos,”
AMVAUMA-1 has also interviewed Col, VENTURA in the WAVE area. VENTURA
@ similar to that of "Carlos" but does not remomber the
je says that he seems to remuaber that the boy's father
ed with one Joi LOPEZ Villaboy (on whom WAVE haw numerous
traces) and that he was assisted in getting to Mexico by a Mexi:

diplomat named "Benjamin." @yricusa Bee yy aey Deg. /G39F
: Sete eeeaeenteey nay AGE Ae AY, FERS
(o) Fou lnu: This appeared a mes
1é'a interrogation, She never heard his name at thie time, but later
4 saw him on televisiog interrogating ANSIGi-2 and he was identified
then as Jose Antonio¥PFERNANDEZ Menert, She does. not believe that this
ig his true name, becduse it is her understanding that DSE officers use
Q@liases in their public appearances, He is about 5'11" tall, slender,
with darkish skin and black hair combed straight back.. He has very
large green cold a, Ke was born about 1939 and appears to be un-
educated, with a cynical and vulgar manner, He wears asia
Ma pe A
7, At about 1600 or 1700 hours on Tuesday, 8 October, AMFAUNA-
was brought into ABAD's office for her first interview, ABAD began
by asking if she knew why she was there, AMFAUNA-14 replied that she
Bad mo idea. ABAD observed that that was strange, because he had
Judged her to bo an able and intelligent woman. , 1,4 fact’ 6.
ye reed :
8. Honestly believing that ghe might ae been denounced
jealous wife of her lover, Manuel +COMPANION » AMPAI -14 sugg
that it might ge &@ personal matter, & tr N
Stcv0g GEO ECR ET é

A Luss e Ee.
ry ®. epi that it\was not, He-then Mea her 1f she kne#“5

lais Braulio’ ILLAR Negret?, AMPAUNA-14 said that she did not,
eaid thas was strange, because VILLAR Negret knew her, He asked
pte w One Angel *BRINGAS, AMFAUNA~14 said that she did. ABAD
Aire feepas cee te nina REM PNR atiy RATED BE Tele SEUESD NBO
10. AMPAUNA-14 said that she knew the man as Luis *NEG!

not recognised the name VILLAR Negret,
Ch_RATI= Sph528
11. ABAD told AMFAUNA-14 that NEGRET was then under de’ on ard
had implicated AMFAUNA-14 in his confession, ABAD wanted to know what
AMVAUHA-14's connection with NEGRET had been. AMFAUNA-14 said that
WEGRET had been in her house once, and once in her mother's,

18, At this point ‘in the interrogation, ABAD was called away and
AMVAUHA-14 vas returned to her cell. Two hours later the interrogation
was roguned, %

13. ABAD picked up where he had left off, and asked AMFAUNA-14
what connection she had had with Angel BRINGAS, AMFAUNA-14 -gaid that
she had known BRINGAS no better than she had known NEGRET, ABAD said
that she was lying and urged that she cooperate, AMFAUNA-14 promised
that she would coopera: ABAD id that NEGRET had told the DSE that
AMVAUHA-14 had had se: relations with BRINGAS, and AMFAUNA-14 denied
the allegation.

24,..-The interrogation was again interrupted, and AMPAUNA-14 was

ret to her cell. When she returned to the interrogation room,
she fsaw that ABAD had an envelope containing what she recognized to be
papers taken from her apartment, including airline passenger manifests,

ciphering material, instructions for using the deciphering material,
and insurance policies and personal papers belonging to AMFAUNA-1.
AMAUNA-14 now realized that it was.time for her to pretend to 7

err

SES Ba uae eacvious aoirion,



14-09

coperate with the DSE, as’ AMFAUNA-1 had briefed her to do in such a
‘situation, .

18, - ABAD began by telling her that she was in a very serious $
ber opt because he knew that she had had very close connections

8 KUBARK agent, ABAD asked whether AMFAUNA-1 was identical with

Mjulse," AMPAUNA-14 said that AMFAUNA-1 had been known as "Julio,"
4B4D then wanted to know whether NEGRET had been working with "Julio."
ABAD asked whether NEGRET had known "Julio."
ied this too, but volunteered the information that "Julio"
had provided NEGRET with mail facilities, ond that AMPAUNA-14 had been
the Butout between them, Did NEGRET know uf "Julio's" existance, ABAD
wanted to know, AMFAUKA-14 said thet herard not, that she had brought
MBGRET mail and money which she had gotten from "Julio," and had picked
wail up from him and delive it to "Julio," but that NEGRET had
never known "Julio's" identity. :

16, ‘The truth about AMFAUNA-14's relations with NEGRET and BRINGAS
according to her statements to her KUBARK case officer in November 1963
ain the JMWAVE area, is as follows:

(a) In about mid-1962, AMCOG-2 asked AMFAUNA-14 to serve as
cutout ‘between herself and an unidentifi d agent, and ANFAUNA-14
agreed. AMFAUNA-14 driven to the meeting site, which was on the
@idewalk in front of a textile factory near Calle 100 in Marianao, by

"s chauffeur, a Spaniard named "Segundo," This agent introduced
himself to AMFAUNA-14 on y 88."Bl *NEGRO", and AMFAUNA-14 described .
herself to him as an employee of an unidentified embassy. For contact
purposes, "Zl Negro" gave her the telephone number 29-4900 or 20-4900,

y (b) Later, when AMFAUNA-14 began to trust "El Negro" more,
ehe gave him the telephone number of her mother, She learned that
RT Ragro’a" true nama wae taie Rraulio VILLAR Negret, and that he
‘Adved im a mall room in the rear of the textile factory. The telephon
umber which he had given her was always answered by a woman whose
Same she learned to be "Maximina,"
i (c) VILLAR Negret was born about 1928, and was about 5'11'
tall with broad shoulders anda strong build. He had black wavy hair,
brown @yss, an olive ekin, ‘and a face marked by acne. AMFAUNA-14 =
mever learned anything about his family directly from him, but DSE
efficers told her that he was married with one child,
parents lived on a farm in Pinar del Rio Provii

(4) VILLAR Negret was a member o'
Democratica, which AMFAUNA-14 understands to be & suc
to the AAA of Aureliano SANCHEZ Arango, He had formerly belonged to i
en action component of this organization, but more recently had de- \
, # yeras himself to intelligence collection, AMFAUNA-14 brought hig ig- |)
yy stions and money from AMCOG-2, and picked up his intelligence***
0 which she delivered to ‘Aucod-2, She underst; that ANCOG=2
these reports via diplomatic channels to Pr ABZ intl 16
a turn. 99: livered them to. an individual identified only
b Rez," The last contact which AMFAUNA-14 had had with
2 Begro® was inj mid Petree 1963 when he passed nee a@ report which
” be said concerned; base, baw @ book on Com
r in Colombia.

(e) Once when "fT Reg:
er pore This cousin was Ange

On various other subsequent occasions, BRINGAS Filled in :
Negro." AGINFC- CN 9509. PROVIDE BY 20/~TIK7,

(f) According to what the DSE officers told her, "El Negro"
was arrested about 1 October and was to be shot, AMFAUNA-14 asked her
BSE interrogators whether it would not be possible to reindoctrinate
“Bl Negro” instead of shoot him, but they told her that it was not
worth the trouble because "E1 Negro" was son of low morals who
Tot ase ea IFICATION a PAGE NO.
: es Paevious eDITI0N. §
mk aa CRET FE cerns

eee
0.

for



14-00000

é : aon t
be shown to Angel BRINGAS when und if ue 48 caugnt,

On 12 or 13 October 1963, af: AMFAUNA-14 had been re-
leased, she waa telephoned at her place of loyment ‘by Ange] BRINGAS
who told her guardedly that "El Negro“ had been arrested and said that
he would like to send a female cousin of his to talk to AMFAUNA-14. A
meeting was arranged in the home of ANFAUHA-14'a mother. The female
cousin, whose name was "Gladys", told AMFAUNA-14 that BRINGAS had gone
into aiding and wondered whether "the family with which she worked"
(the ABCOGS) could help him get into asylum.. AMFAUNA-14 said that she
doubted this, "Gladys" told AMFAUNA-14 that, in case it were possible
to do anything for BRINGAS, she should tclephone "Gladys" with an :
innocent message. It was understood that @ meeting would take place at
1800 hours on the same day of the telephone call at the Ten Cent Store
S3rd between 10th and 12th in Vedado, © AMFAUNA-14 does not remember
Gladya' telephone number which was left with her mother,

(h) In spite of what AMFAUNA-14 told the DSE, AMFAUNA-1 had
had nothing to do with NEGRET, ANMFAUNA-14 had told this, story to pro-
tect ANCOG-3, NEGRET had known that AMCOG-2 was involved, and had once
had a meeting with her in her home, Nevertheless, AMFAUNA-14 briefed
Q8COG-2 on the cover story which she had told the D8Z and told her that,
4m case she were ever arrested and questioned, she should admit having
talked to NEGRET in her home, but deny having been involved in the
communications channel or knowing anything about it,

Station Comment: Luis Braulio VILLAR Negret appears to be
identical with Luis *REGRE Villar (born 4 November 1930 in Consolacion
del Sur, Pinar del Rio), who is carded as ACSI source No, 492 and Bee
appears in AMBUD correspondence as National Coordinator of the Accion
Revolucionaria Democratica. "El Guajiro Bermudez" appears to be iden-
tical with Gerardo Jose *QUESADA Vasquez (201-292022) (born © May 1919,
Pinar del Rio), President and founder of Accion Revolucionaria Democrati

pia source ¥:
and A052 seurce >

@, Tine arc ne Station traegg on Angel BRINGAS.
he 1068 Havana telephone dgrectory has no listing Hhtewa0=4990,- con
M¥-avUU 19 Listed to warned reuasaivi ive ie Adi1 7 Martanagy OMWA’

has no traces on him. There ‘de no listing under 70-5570. However, »

under 70-5579 there is the Cuban Ray X y Foto, S8.A., Calle 23 -
#72, La Rampa.) BHP IH * BONE co CHevstke ZY
; z  AI2E PS =
17, ABAD appesred to be particularly interested in how NBGRET and

"Julio" obtained their funds, and kept returning to thie subject during
the interrogation,

16, ABAD then addressed himself to the contents of the envelope
and a suitcase found in AMFAUNA-14's apartment. He commented that all
these. things appeared to belong to AMFAUNA-1 and his son, and asked how
they happened to be there, AMFAUNA-14 replied that AMFAUNA-1 and his”
eon, together with AMFAUNA-3, had been hiding for a few days in her
apartment because their usual hiding place had become unavailable.

19. ABAD wanted to know how and when AMFAUNA-14 had first set
AMPAUNA-1, AMFAUNA-14 replied that she had met AMFAUNA-1 in about —
February 1962, that AMFAUNA-1 had regularly parked his car in a lot near
her office and that they seen each other on the street frequently,
that AMNFAUNA-1 had finally spoken to her, and that a friendship had:
developed which finally turned into a love affair. (Comment: This was
®@ lie told to conceal the fact that it had been AMCUTLER-% who had in-
troduced them.) She said that AMFAUNA-1 had been her lover until about
duly 1963 when she broke up with him because he too busy with
clandestine work to pay the proper amount of attention to her,

20, ABAD asked what part AMFAUNA-14 had played in AMFAUNA-1's
clandestine activities, AMPAUNA-14 replied that AMFAUNA-1..would some-
tises telephone her late at night to invite her to go out for a ride,
and she would then find that AMFAUNA-1 was going out to have agent
seetings and wanted her along for cover. ABAD asked whom AMFAUNA~-1 had
been meeting, AMPAUNA-14 mentioned. a person known as “Gustavo” and
SS" ta ves eaevious eorriow,



fave the physical description of AMFAUNA-24, whom ehe knew to be sa iy
out of Cuba. (She never knew AMFAUNA-24's true name.) She aleo mentioned
Manolo *VILLANANAN, the true name of AMFAUNA-13 (whom shi
only as AMPAUNA-1's business partner but when she thought she ‘could i:
@afoly mention now that he was out of Cuba,) For good measure she added
@ notional name and physical description. zi

21, Referring back to AMFAUNA-1's automobile, ABAD asked what
Kind of a car he had driven, AMFAUNA-14 replied that it was a gray
She repeated that AMFAUNA-1 had formerly parked it
jad not n it recently. ABAD
apked where AMFAUNA-1's red car ’
number on this car waa,
ed anything about the third car which AMFAUNA~1 had

« ABAD commented that the DSE had observed AMFAUNA-1 in his
futomobile in the Havana dock area on 1 January 1963, having a meeting
with another person, (AMFAUNA-14 recalls that this other person was
AMPAUNRA-24, and that he and AMFUANA-1 had rendezvoused in the dock area
after an attempt to pick up AMFAUNA-1's radio.

83, With reference to the KUBARK agent known as "Julio", whom :
they bad recently identified with AKFAUNA-1, ABAD said that he knew —:
that "Julio" had left Cuba in October 1962 and believed that he had :
gone to Burope, but he said he did not know whether "Julio" had gone
clandestinely or legally.

) 94, AMFAUNA-14 was asked about AMFAUNA-1's subsources in other
provinces, but she suid she knew nothing about them, ABAD said he was
eure that ANPAUWNA-1 had @ good aourre on the Tala of Pinaa. Whore war
name might be "Raul". ABAD also mentioned the name of a person who had
been shot about two weeks previously and who he believed had been work-
ing with AMPAUNA-1, (AMFAUNA-14 does not remember the name of this
person. )

28. ABAD asked if AMFAUNA-1's son had helped him in thie clandes~«
time work, AMFAUNA-14 replied that the gon had been with AMFAUNA-1
freqvently, but that she thought it was only because he was helping
AMPAUKA-1 with his business. and that the son probably had had nothing
to do with clandestine work, is

26. ABAD again turned to the envelope of papers found in AMFAUNA~14 Cae
apartwent, and maid he could see she was not cooperating with him. She
was not volunteering information, he said, but iting to be asked
questions, ABAD said he was sure that there was much that AMPAUNA-14
could tell him spontaneously, and he intimated that there might be a-
chance for her to rehabilitate herself.

27, ABAD asked her where the passenger lists came from. AMFAUNA-14
weplied that they had been left in her apartment by AMFAUNA-1, who
intended to instruct her later by SW what to do with them. She said
that AMFAUKA-1 had trained her in this system, and had left her his
materials, so that he could use her as a stop-gap communications, yal

while he was trying to reorganize his net.

Sie S04,
146 ©.

38, ABAD told her that thie was plainly ni Ue,
‘the lists were dated later than AMFAUNA-1's departure date, He said he
Sd they had been brought to AMFAUNA-1l4's apartment ;, AMCUTLER-2,

‘ho had been observed coming there on 5 October with Loligf*CORREOSO.

(fais was true, according to AMFAUNA-14, AMCUTLER-2 and Lolin CORREOSO
had brought the passenger manifests to AMFAUNA-14's house at about 1630 a
or 1700 hours on 5 October, and stayed about fifteen minutes. AT a
1400 hours that sace day, AMPAUNA-14 had had a meeting with AMPAUNA-39, fod
the first in two weeks, initiated by AMFAUNA-39 by means of a telephone
call to AMPAUNA-1's mother who was serving as cutout between t
AMPAIWA-30 had called the meeting to ask whether she had recei
instructions from AMFAUNA-1 as to how to,act in case of an
uprising, which a number of people in Cuba: se

ny
1
about

J na.
to be expecting



DSE interrogators never

r ‘Joned AUFAUNA-30, or asked
her about this earlier meet: 4 concludes that she had not
been under intensive surveillance that day; either AMCUTLER-2 had been
under surveillance on 5 October, or she herself had been under some. kind
of periodic spot check. )

80. ABAD asked AMFAUNA-14 how she had become acquainted with
ANCUTLER-3, and ANFAUNA-14 repjied that she had met AMCUTLER-2 through
AMPAUNA-15, the wife of a cousin of AWFAUNA~14 who is a prisoner on the
Tele of Pines,

ABAD then asked AMFAUNA-14 where her SW materials were, which
gurprised AMFAUNA-14 because she had thought they had nm found during
her house search and were part of the incriminating envelope which ABAD
was holding. AMFAUNA-14 told ABAD where to look for the materials, and
he sent somebody to get then,

: 31. ABAD wanted to know how AMFAUNA-i
of Cuba. AMFAUNA-14 said she did not know.
were to get their instruction on the street
ment.

33. ABAD abruptly asked AMFAUNA-14 whether she knew anybody in
uyano, AMFAUNA-14 said she did not. ABAD then produced a photograph
of AMPAUNA-14 together with AMFAUNA-1 and 592 and told her that she
had boon in 2's home in Luyano with AMFAUNA-1 on Saturday, 7 Septe:
He asked AMFAUNA<14!whetherlAM@BE32 were employed in an embassy, AMFAUN,
14 said she did not know but that’she thought so. She said she knew

to be a personal friend of AMFAUNA-1, and thought that he might
occasionally have helped AMFAUNA-1 with his mail. (It was true that
AMPAUHA-14 had gone to ‘sg house on 7 September with AMFAUNA-1.
Later the same day AMFAUNA-1, took her to Miramar to introduce her to
Seesoms So. Because ths DOD uc ved cagecssed auy duicacol la ANTAUNA-22,
AMFAURA-14 concluded that they had not observed this meeting, and that
thererore it had been EE} % who had been under surveillance on 7
September and not herself or 'AMFAUNA-1. She also concluded that the DSE
had been inefficient in not transferring their surveillance to herself.:
and ANPAUNA-1.) .

33. ABAD again’ bhanged the subject suddenly. "Where is the radio?'|’
he apked. "Could fen have it?" AMFAUNA-14 said she did not know.
anything about a radio. ~"Where is the camera?" asked ABAD, AMFAUNA~14
admitted having mn AMFAUNA-1 with a Minox camera, but said she did not
know what AMFAUNA-1 had done with it. She said she had hoped that
AMPAUHA-1 would leave it with her, and pretended to be hurt that he had
not done go. ABAD asked her whether she had ever seen one like it in
the A¥COG house, and AMPAUNA-14 said that she had. Throughout the
boat ieee ‘ABAD kept reverting to the subject of the camera: and the
radio. ‘

. -3@, ABAD asked AMFAUNA-14 what her connection was with the ANCOG
family. She replied that her grandmother was the cousin of AMCOG-3's
mother, ABAD said tint the whole family had been under observati i
@ long time, and mentioned. an organization (name not remembered
SSMPAUHA-14) which ANCOG-2 had worked with during the Batista era,
be wanted to know, was ANCOG-3 doing. AMFAUNA-14 said that she dis
think he was doing anything clandestine. ABAD replied that the DSE
positive that AMCOG-3 was doing secret work. AMPAUNA-14 said t

@hould not delude itself, that the entire family was too s
engage in anything of the kind. a

35. ABAD. asked what the diplomatic visitors to the ANCOG household
talk about. AMPAUNA-14 said that they never talk politics. ABAD asked ~
about the attitude of"the Doctor" (AMCOG-3's uncle), and AMFAUNA-14 said
that be was waiting for the situation to settle. : 7

vos Pet: 7
"What about AMPAUNA-37" asked ABAD, "Did she fork
‘| AMVAUMA-17" AMFAUNA-14 said that she did not, but that she s
gave him information. ..ABAD wanted to know whether AMFAUNA-3 ‘é a been

, iF

and AMFAUNA-3 had gotten out
She said she understood they}
once they had left her apart-

| working with some onevin Florida, AMPAUNA-14 answered that
"SLAGSIPICATION PAGE NO.
2OR pee | sae cemvious EDITION: BECRET Iz i:



szcRET’- ~* | * uFGA-12804

had been involved somehow with her sister who Jives in Florida, ABAD
asked whether AMFAUNA-14 had been a good friend of AMFAUNA-3, a
@aid that had been, ABAD asked whether AMFAUNA-14 had ever heard
AMPAUNA~3 speak about the Escambray insurgents, AMFAUNA-14 said that
she had not. ABAD asked whether ANFAUNA-3 hed had contacts with any
bassy people, for example the Spanish Embazsy. AMFAUNA-14 said that
she did not know of any such contacts.

37. “How abcut AMCUTLER-27" asked ABAD. "We know that she spends
& lot of time there," AMFAUNA-14 said she did rot know.

$8, ABAD
said that she
She said tha:

not, but that neither was the against the revolution.
had joined the militia early in the revolution, but

had sooB dropped out because there were some things about the revolution

which she did not understand. For instance, she could not underetand

why thore should be so many shortages and rationing, whereas before the
revolution there had been plenty. ABAD exp]sined that the shortages wer

the result of the imperialist blockade of Cuba. AMFAUNA-14 seid that

she could understand this, but that it did not explain why there should

be a shortage of coffee when Cuba grew its own, ABAD said that coffee

was in short supply because Cuba was sending coffee to the Soviet Union
in gratitude for Soviet assistance in overcoming shortages caused by the

imperialist blockade, AMPAUNA-14 replied that this was very logical
now that it had been explained to her, and said she wondered why the

revolutionary government did not publicly say so in order to put an end

to public grumbling on the subject.

88, .Barly in the morning of 9 October, ABAD produced the letter os

which AMPAUNA-14 received from AMFAUNA-1 on 7 October and held up the

letter to the light, examining it carefully for traces of SW, AMFAUNA-

Wo ehe wae tald to davelan the latte

mere brought

l4te oper pill
which she did in the presence of ABAD, "Carlos," anda third man whom
ghe was unable to get a good look at. All were very surprised and

disappointed when nd secret writing appeared. They kept asking her if

she were sure she was doing it right, and began intimating that she was

deceiving them. (Station Comment; It is indeed surprising that no
secret writing appé
one containing SW message no, 1 to ANFAUNA-14,)

40. AMAUNA-14 also explained the use of her carbons. The only
accommodation address she gave away was AMFAUNA-1's JHWAVE area post
office box, She deliberately protected the ddress. (the
home of AMPAN~2), not knowing whether this was or a fictitious
person, GA 2!

41, "Carl
Foplied that she might be willing to do so, but first wanted to know
what work would be expected of her, For instance, she said, she would
not inform on people in her office, They told her that this would not
be askedaf her, because that sort of work is done by the Defense
Committees, Her work, they said, would be much more important, namely
maintaining a link between themselves and KUBARK, She said that would
be all right, but she w: afraid t! it would not last long because
RUBARE would probably put her on ice goon as they learned that she
had been arrested. They told her not to worry about that,

42. -“Carlos" and ABAD suggested to her that AMPAUNA-1 had briefed

her to agree to cooperate with them, She denied this, claiming that she
had not really wanted to work with AMFAUNA-1 at all, but had merely let

herself be imposed on for old times sake. They asked whether they
could trust her, She said she thought so, and asked whether she could
trust them to keep their promises, They assured her that she could,
and said she would be released the following day.

43, In the morning of 10 October, atter: beitig to1d that she was to

be released, AMPAUNA-14 was moved to a smaYler cell without a bath. She

sent for ABAD and complained that he-had double~crossed her. He told

ked AMFAUNA-14 if she were a revolutionary. AMFAUNA-14

cause this letter was almost undoubtedly be

"and ABAD now invited AMFAUNA-14 to work with them, She



UFGA-12884

her that he was going to keep his word and release her, but that her
original cell was needed for some new prisoners who were expected. He
Baid that the DSE had received advance word that a boatload of refugees
were going to try to leave Cuba that night. Many of them were women,
tar one of there was pregnant, so he wanted the larger cell with bath
for th

44. ABAD nlways trented AMFAUNA-14 kindly and considerately,
When she had a headache, he ordered aspirin for her, Hévsaw to it that
she received s: drinks when she wanted them, and he seemed to be
ho tly distressed whenever she wept, AKI'AUNA-14 believes that it had
been the DSE's intention from the very beginning to recruit her, be-
cause she doubts that all DSE prisoners are treated as well.

45, The first SW message which AMPAUNA-14 wrote while under DSE
control was dated 10 October, the day of her release, The DSE officers
asked her what her control signal. was, and she replied that it was a
rubric, but also included her true control signal, She deliberately
mumbered her first controlled SW message no. 2, to conceal the fact
that she had already written several. messages containing intelligence
reports,

: 46. In all she wrote three SW messages. under control. She was
obliged to write each one in duplicate, one‘of which was mailed and the
other given to the DSE for study.. One day "Carlos" came to her very
angrily, said he doubted that her carbons were anything more than
ordinary paper because he had been unable to develop anything that she
"bs ae t! AMTAUNA-24 told hin
, chance he had
tried to develop the letters she had written with the pills he had
taken:.from her, it would not work. This surprised "Carlos," and
-AMFAURA-14 explained that there were two different SW systems, one for .
outgoing mail and the other for incoming. "Carlos" then asked her if |
there were any significance to the size of envelope used, or to the way:
the letter paper was folded, AMFAUNA-14 said she did not think so,
AMFAUNA-14 feels that "Carlos" and ABAD never completely believed that
she had an SW system, because none of the letters which she received
disclosed SW when developed, and none of the letters which she wrote
showed any traces of SW when held up to glancing light.

*. 47, "“Carios" was the DSE officer who maintained contact with
AMPAUNA-14 after her release. For two or three weeks he saw her every
day at her apartment, sometimes for only twonty minutes, and sometimes
g@taying for several hours, frequently late at night. Occasionally he
called her at her office, Finally AMFAUNA-14 told him that she had to
get up early in the morning to go to work, and asked him to visit her
early in the evening, which he agreed to do. At. the time of the in-
tercepted AMGLOSSY landing in Pinar del Rio, “Carlos” did not visit
“AMPAUNA-14 for five days, When he finally returned, he was dirty,
gweaty and tired, He dictated an SW letter he wanted AMFAUNA-14 to
gend to KUBARE, and while she was writing it he fell asleep.

; 48. AMFAUNA-14 had to prepare written reports for him, which she
‘signed with the pseudonym "Dolores," He told her never to call him at
DOB headquartere, because he was never there. Once he brought her a
book on Marxism to read, and promised to take her someday to visit a

collective farm in Pinar del Rio Province.

49. Despite his occasional efforts to get her to pick up the thread:
of the AMFAUKA net, AMPAUNA-14 believes that the primary target she was
intended to work against was the ANCOG household. From remarks made by
both ABAD and "Carlos", she deduced that they already had an informer
in the house, but that they were not satisfied with his production,
Toward the end of her period of DS8E -controlled activi: Bhe felt that
the DSB was becoming relatively less interested in AM 2 and his ~
‘net, and more in the ANCOG household. , ce

: 50. They asked her about one Vicente LAGO, who 18 a regular guest
at. the ANCOG house and who seems to be particularly interespade to. them,



CONTINUATION OF
DisPATCH

CULEM 2 o\-281532

, They also wanted to know what dipl dwIt the AMCOGs, When she
gentioned the’ ‘onsyl (Tom JUESADA), they exclaimed and said
they were very intereate n him, and asked whether she could arrange
invitations to His house, Other diplomatic personne} AMFAUNA-14
tioned as visitors to the AMC hoRy 2 FOSCHENI (

),

Brasilien adar_ Ld is?}
secretary ds Br Inited Arab Republig @m Dans: e of a former
dapanese sabosnndor, Fortunately, during the "tour weeks following
ANPAUHA-14's release from DSE custody, no diplomats visited the AMCOG
* Cok Feu GUC Re media 21-441 F berrac bk
81, With the knowledge. “and encouragement of the DSK; —AUFAUNA-14
visited the ANCOG house nearly every day. Her first visit took place
@t noon on 11 October and she stayed until about 1800 hours, during
which time she told AMCOG-3 the entire story, He listened and took a
few notes, but kept most of the story in his memory, He encouraged
Qnd calsed AMFAUNA-14, told her to follow DSE instructions to the letter
and assured her ‘that KUBARK would send her instructions.

A AMFAUNA~14's immediate preoccupations were ANCUTLER-2 and

8 (whom she knew to be blown to the Ds! KUBARK agents), .
AMP! 39 (who was not yet identified but had her telephone number and
wight oall her at any moment with damaging results to himself), and
the posaible arrival of SW messages from KUBARK naming other agent
‘ personnel,

after her release, AMFAUNA-14

28 and the mother of Mencis ¥

warning her tha: re aA had been arrested. She aleo asked AMCOG-2 to brodiee

83. On 11 October, th

@ warning to Be Nat Gpbuat wy 2er- 24 Tous
pied Dae Bak

84, On 13 or pone \COG-2 wen’ he home 0: s

O'PARRILL where she met Wandat INI whom she asked merely to warn
AY that the DSE had 2" identified. » or three days later,
Wanda FOSCHINI reported back)jto ANCOG-2 that later 2 evidently was not.

taking the warning seriously. By this time, however, AHFAUNA-14 was;
eure thet?! knew that something was wrong, because he had tele-
ned AMPAUMA-1's mother asking for "Soledad ind had been told that
edad" was unknown, (Regarding Albertina *Q'PARRILL'S knowledge of
these developments, AMFAUNA-14 believes that she peorably knew iaakadesh

were, than aor AMFAUNA-14 had been 69: jen\rele: )
: 65, On ober AMFAUNA-14 sent a warning telephone cal

AMPAURA-39, She dialled 20-6168) and told the woman who answered "Pleasd
~t@Al Manolo that Soledad calledgdand that he should not telephone me
I am going to be out of faavana and will call him when I return; '
_ AMPADWA-14 i not sure now whether AMCOG-3, whom she consulted on the
“beat way. to do this, had noted the felephone number,
OL nba = 2ol7 $526

telling him to stay sway from
occasionally,

57. On 20 October when she arrived home from
found "Carlos" waiting downstaire for her, Trying to divert his
tion from the mail box, s' invited him to come right in, but he asked .
her why she did not open her mail box first, She did so and found two
letters from AMFAUNA-1, dated 19 and 25 September. 307 both contained
veiled references to names like "Carmina" agttsor

igardo,,"
(4MPAUMA-37), “B1 Grande" (AMPAUNA-25), andg('Igor" Chit 2)91 One of
them instructed AMFAUNA-14 to have, "Carmina" introduce her to "Edgardo"
and the other intimated that jad something for her.

58. "Carlos" ordered her to develop these letters, and she did 80,
Ho secret writing appeared, which did not surprise AMFAUNA-14 because
the letters themselves contained instructions for her, but it did

WkemonataT -



anew sey janes es

surprise "Carlos" who again began to accuse AMFAUNA-14 of double-
crossing him. AMFAUNA-14 explained the absence of SW by saying that
KUBARK was probnbly testing its communications channels and waiting
for things to quiet down before

nding messages, o
89. "Carlos" then told AMFAUNA-)4 to get in touch with gars
al t the package which he was holcing for her, She telephoned
of 2 from her office. and said she wanted to see him.v| B23 agreed
to a meeting, but stipulated that it be after 1700 hours and in his
office, ‘AMFAUNA-14 reported this conversation to "Carlos” who told
her to proceed with the meeting.

ol :
0/60, AM@BE}2 took AMFAUNA-14 into a emali room, where she quickly
explained the situation (she felt she should not spend much time in
2's office because she was afraid the DSE had her under surveil-
lahce; this waz confirmed lat rolwhen "Carlos" asked her casually how
much time she had spent in 2's office, apparently trying to
eaten her out in a lie). seemed surprised, and worried, and
told her to take care of herself, Ushe tos AMWE! 4 that the reason
the DSE had wanted her to meet with him was to pick up a package which
they believed he was holding for her..o|AMWEE}2 replied that he was no
longer in a position to receive or send packages, because the diplomat
with whom he had been cooperating had been declared persona non grata,

_jix81. "Carlos" also told AMFAUNA=14 to contact AMCUTLER-2 to arrange
the“introduction to "Edgardo," AMPAUNA-14 telephoned AMCUTLER-2's
ihumber, expecting to be told that AMCUTLER-2 was not there, and was
very surprised when AMCUTLER-2 herself came to the telephone. AMFAUNA-
14 told AMCUTLER-2 that she wanted to see her, but AMCUTLER-2 said she
had a bad case of asthma and could not see anybody, AMFAUNA-14 re-
ported this convereation to "Carlos,"

[eb Se sahristeaatsl ts:

ae. Aue 14 deckdod” +
not understood the warning message sent to her, so she sent
two more oral messages via AMFAUNA-15 and one via Lolita
explicitly advising her to hide or take asylum.

h Zoh2,. i
\ 63. "Carlos" continued to press AMFAUNA-14 to see AMCUTLER-2, and
AXNCUTLER~2 showed no signs of heeding AMFAUNA~14's warnings. AMPAUNA-1
by herefore sent one more message, this time a written one, via Lolita ig
aying thet she really must see AMCUTLER-2 in the latter's
fof the purpose of coordinating cover stories, AMCUTLER-2 then
paid a visit to the home of Lolita helt pass the message that she
agreed to the meeting.

64, On 3 November, with the knowledge of "Carlos," AMFAUNA-14 went

to. ANCUTLER-3's house, "Carlos" briefed her to obtain an introduction

‘to. "Edgardo", to find out where AMCUTLER-2's coffee shops werelocated, ‘

and to find out whether AMCUTLER-1 wns a close friend of Eloy }UT TERRE:
2» Mepoyo. — : a2: Ache,
2 @5. ANCUTLER-2 told AMFAUNA-14 to tell
gota close friend of GUTIERREZ Wenoyo. She sajd to add that

very: with AMCUTLER-1 and thinking of divorcing hi

BOL SB ALEY And Hl 34,
66, AMVAUNA-14 and AMCUTLER-3 devised the following cover storie

' for the protection of the source of the airline passenger manifests
(AMVAUNA-18, whom ANFAUNA-14 does not know) and of "Edgardo" (AMFAUNA-
37, whom AMPAUKA-14 does not know):

(a) Before leaving Cuba, AMPAUNA-1 had asked AMCUTLER-2 to
look out for his mother, and to pass on to AMFAUNA-14 anything that .
might come addre: d to “Betty.” Oné day, a colored woman called at
ABCUTLER-2's coffee shop on Calle San Rafael with a package addressed
‘to "Betty". The coffee shop employees had thought that the package was
intended for an employee whose name is "Ketti" and had given it to her,
but she said ‘wag pot hers, and there matters rested until one day

ed the coffee shop and was told about the incident,

hake she knew who the package was intended for,

ngs Bina?

_



eitieitty pea 2 é
(b) AMCUTLER-2 had received a-letter from AMFAUNA~1 dated 18 iiiaesteniienit aah
October saying that she would receive a visit from a person known to her

who would introduce himself as "Edgardo", and asking her to introduce

"Edgardo" to AMFAUNA-14, This person has not yet arrived, and AMCUTLER- .

2 does not know who he is.

. 87, AMCUTLER-2 agreed to stick to these stories in case she is
interrogated, and to brief "Ketti" to support the coffee shop story.
She also told AMFAUNA-14 she had decided to go into hiding immediately,
AMPAUNA-14 asked her not to do it so soon after her visit, but AMCUTLER-
2 said that AMFAUNA-14 should provids her vith cover by telling the DSE
that. AMCUTLER-2 -had spoken of taking a holiday at Varadero,

68. Making her report to "Carlos" after this meeting, AMFAUNA-14
teld these cover stories as though they had just been neeesee to her .
by ABCUTLEH-2,

68. 4 fourth letter arrived from AMFAUNA-1, consisting of two
pages of overt text. AMFAUNA-14 was sure that it contained SW because
of the banalities in the cover letter, Before turning it over to
"Carlos" she took it to AMCOG-3 who had somebody make a literal copy
of it and then destroyed the original. AMFAUNA-14 turned the copy over
to "Carlos" who had her develop it, and was again disappointed and angry,
when no SW showed up. (Station comment: this letter had contained SW
number groups for OWL reception,

70, On or about 10 November 1963, AMFAUNA-14 prepured a written
report for the DSE on the visitors to the AMCOG household. This report
actugily dictated by AMCOG-3 to AMFAUNA-14 who took it down on the
ypewriter, She then made a handwritten copy of the report to turn in
to the DSE, keeping the typewritten copy for self- ~briefing.

gpempitten sory out with her, Pellowing is a lite
eta. lee Foy towith hor, Following is a lit
Jet y

- ,8- (ure) srnesto Smanri and hie wite Lolita: 1 do not know them
very well, i Y can say about them ia what I have heard, that they
are old friends of the family, and that the doctor took a trip to Mexico]
J ith AMCOG-3'a uncle. latter's election,

sue Nester £8 7

gif 5b.

b, Sr, wate CARRILLO and nig wife Margot: He is a a er ep
t-Justo *CARRI is en a frien ‘amily for a long time.

They sympathize with the Revolution tn some eepocte | but their daughter
(who I think is engaged to the son of AMCOG-2) left Cuba for exile, and
this caused them to change, I do not know why their daughter had to

take asylum,

hppa

att gE!

raenteiease c. ‘pr. Oscar EDINA and his wife Margarita: Within the family
whe has the nickname ey fe is a judge. mtil very recently he
was neutral, but now it seems that they have loaded him with work and

nee i nm a very bad mood because I believe he has the work of eight

She does not sympathize much with the Revolution, They have no —
onild fen, but aimost all of her family is abroad which I think is her

principal reason for being discontented. Avda i

ee ec Se

“et 4, Bra, Nenita de fCARAWES: She 1s the alta oe ta CARAMES ,
the former Chie¥ of Police GY Havana, She has a daughter by him whom

she*brings to lunch every Sunda: and she is also caring for a son of
CARAMES who is insane and in an asylum. I do not believe that at the
moment she is on good terms with her husband who is abroad, and there-
fore she is neither against nor in favor, Actually I believe she is
afraid that the ‘situation will change and her husband will return.

ae e e. Sr. Forsiando/ S@8TEFFANI: An elderly gentleman who is the — fe
father of an intimate friend of AWCOG-2, who out of pity has given him

‘ya, standing invitation for Said ceewee To be sure, the poor fellow

i

PAGE NO.

12



14-00000

? , Rae al . . Wa wht Ce hie
¢. Bisa AMpraz Biart: Her family has been friendly with/the ~
AMCOG family Yor many years. They ware school friends. ae as a
sister abroad and a brother who is in priacn. Her father and mother
seldom come to the house. A sister of herz if a doctor of some farm,
All she does is obtain medicines for the piisoners, thereby causing
@ lot of trouble for AMCOG-2, AMCOG-3 and the old man, wd ger doar y

lech ot g. Joaguin ancnsz and his wife Sara: <According to what I
have heard, hé {a a travelling salesman for some laboratory His wife
ig the ster of the wife of the old man's two nephews, Pancho and
AHCCG-3 (sic). I have also heard that she is always trying to get
medicine. for her son who, from what I nave heard, bd eorornane
cE

Cle bbe
we" h. @r, Maria Dolores BANCHEZ” Pessino: She lost both her
” gather and mother when she was rteen years Old, and the AMCOG family
took her in as an adopted daughter, The old man paid for her education,
She is like a daughter to him, and like a sister to the nephew and nieca,
She works in the emergency hospital, She is not openly opposed to the
regime, but nevertheless the separation from her brother and her relatives
has greatly affected her, -.ui.: Abandon fdr | sk fried

i: i. (BE Vicente f#Laco and his wife Maria Julia: His brother
Roberto LAGO ae a ae husband. They
have two sons abroad. From what I have heard, he devotes himself ex~
clusively to his professian, and it is she who is most upset by the
separation from her children. oS Cok te

Se coe 1 wercedes/avAiDES Gh a case very similar ‘to that of
STEPPANI, oxcep ‘3 A woman who is a very good friend of thu *

AMCOG-2's husband, aad Mein the same situation with her relatives
abroad, She is just one more of the many refugees in search of warmth
and friendship, with no friends left in Cuba.

\ of
nak k. Julio/®BRAVO: A long-time friend of Pancho, all his family
ig abroad. He is anéther case of warmth and friondship, he uses the
swisming pool a lot, he is alone, I have even seen him cutting trees
with AMCOG-3, a typical case of an unhappy man, in the afternoons he
plays ches# with the old man, and I have never heard him say anything
bad about anybody, not even about the situation, the only thing - as ie
natural - he misses his enuenr ee Pili hia wife. fir» he nthieetl J
bea
ne aot Raquel RcashtRan: aS ‘widow of the Director of “Cuiture in 4
Grau Goveraaee Yesus CASAGRAN, and sister of Raul LAZARO who was |
siivtery aide to both “Grau and Prio, She is very highly regarded by
the family. I have never heard her express herself in any way against...
the Government; I would call her neutral,

y Serf tt bn Mm AL ed beige tees EB
ro on, nga cilicnt a /ACRECENTE: “Former ite of Joss Marin de la -heutleray
she comes to ie ise ©. her two daughters and hermother who-.is a .
cousin of Sra, Paulina, AMCOG-2 helped her a lot.in hiding her, hueba:
during the Batista tyranny. I have also heard that AMCOG-3 help:
with her divorce. Apparently she does not sympathize with the: R
Ath ugh I believe that it ig out of spite against her husband
name is Leopoldina SANCHEZ Vda. de Crecete, and her’

~ Awe

25720 yank,
0 who is 2 closé friend.

This ig her principal obséasion:.
been coming to the house a lot
a very. good fr. ‘end of the

her cousin who was a “better friend



14-00000

ABUUU Family “ror-meny youre. -auey nee eee ane oer
ster abr and.a brother:who is in prison, Her father and mother | |
seldom cone” tol the house, A sister of hers is a doctor of ome. farm, |
. All ‘she “does i obtain medicines for the’ prisoners, thereby causing ,’

@ lot of trouble for AMCOG-2, AMCOG-3 and the old man, Jer 2reryy |
: g» Joa uin SSancnez and his wife Sara: Yhocording to what I
‘ave heard, he {5 a trave ng oklesnan ror some laboratory.» His wife

is the si ter of the wife of the old man's two nephews, Pancho and
ANCOG-3 (sic). I have also heard that she is always trying to get
“medicine for her son who, bait what I have heard, ae abnormal,

FE fee oe ants
“an h. (Or, Maria Dolores BANcHEZ “Pezsino: She lost both hi
father and mother when she was Yteen years old, and the aicos” family
took her in as an adopted daughter. The oid man paid for her education,
She is like a daughter to him, and like a sister to the nephew and nieca,
She works in the emergency hospital, She 1s not openly opposed to the
regime, but nevertheless the separation from her brother and her relatives
has greatly affected her... awl ay i
nib Jet

(Dra Vicente [LAco and his wife Maria Julia: His brother
Roberto tacos ‘ed some years ago, was Pola‘’s first husband, They
have two sons abroad: From what I have heard, he devotes himself ex~
clusiyely to his profession, and it is she who is most upset: ey the
@eparation from her children, -.:.-..ws fo. 2 0

tr da ae ercedes ev ALDEs hacoi: a case very similar to that of
STEFFANI, excep ‘3 & woman who is a very good friend of sk.
AWCOG-2's husband,’ Mabde te!4n the same situation with her relatives
abroad, She is just one more of the many refugees in search of warmth
and friendship, with no friends left in Cuba,

\

na k. Julio /ipravo: A long-time friend of Pancho, all his family
ig abroad, He is andther case of warmth and friondship, he.uses the
swimming pool a lot, he ie alone, I have even seen him cutting trees
with ANCOG<3, a typical case of an unhappy man, in the afternoons he
Plays chess with the old man, and I have never heard him say anything
bad about anybody, not even about the situation, the only thing - as ia
natural - he misses his daughters and his wife Hur s SOY GN Sd ATT EAD bo Wy 1

one 42! 1. el RoasKGnan: The widow of the Director of Culture in
rau_covernaeet Yosus CASAGRAN, and sister of Raul LAZARO who was

AM Adtary aide to both Grau and id Prio. She is very highly regarded by
the family I have never heard her express herself in any way against

the Goveranent ; I would 11 her neutral,

Sy aa Parris RAL ba avd yd ig del ZIV te
See 1 Ouga RCRECENTE Former wife of Jose Maria dela Aguilera,’
whe comes to ie ise ©. he¥ two daughters and hermother who is a ©.
cousin of Sra, Paulina, _ AMCOG-2 helped her a lot in hiding her husband
during the Batista tyranny. I have also heard that AMCOG-3 helped her
with her divorce, Apparently she does not sympathize with the Revoluti

although I believe that it is out of spite againet her husband, Her
8 name ia bn tse SANCHEZ Vda, de Crecerite, and her nickname

BH AG

gp it. Js 2

Saitaeene who is a close friend of)
husband of Polita, She. is another
cause after all her family had left she came °
of friendship, She has wanted to leave Cuba
ever able to, This ig her principal obsession
t of her mother as well, She has been coming to the house a lot
ast thyée years, and has become a very good friend of the
hor 1 in reality it was her cousin who was a better friend

fcase,of family oraease
sto, the house in sear

ee aes)
“Oe Rosendo Feeacto and Sra, ss idina Branez: this couple has
two children who are really hers from her re arriage, Manolito and
Lourdes, He has a 4leaning shop in Havana, and know that she has

Fon f.
Seo" 89a “ues previo
tao>



. CONTMUATIONOr = ||” ‘ a

‘| DISPATCH ” “ SEBCRET*. * “UFGA~12804.
est :

oi ieee p. -Manuel *COMPANIONI and his wife Alicia: They have been
acquaintan: Of ANCO=-F and AMCOG-3 for many years, although it was not

before she married J, AGUERO. Politically speaking, she foliows the
Grau line, She is more or less neutral, and devotes herself to her
teaching work. He devotes himself exclusively to his. work,

& close friendship, rather a friendship of Montmartre, Tropicana, etc.
A daughter of theirs is abroad, He too was a very good friend of Armand
PEO who used to be a friend of the family, and now in the course of time
they have become closer friends of the family. In other words it is
another case of friendship caused by being abandoned by others. He has
@ small deodorant factory in the same house where they live. They both
have their mothers here. f

q. Jack! *CONNILL ar and his wife Mardi : His mother has been @
very goad friend of the fa mily for many years, and she was a school
friend of the two nieces of the old man, This couple have always been
friends of the family, the more so now that so many of their friends
have left Cuba,

71, AMPAUNA-14 turned this report over to "Carlos" on 11 or 12
November, At this meeting he asked her to try to make contact with
AMPFAUNA-3's brother who he said had been transferred to a hospital in
Las Villas, AMFAUNA-14 said she would try, but thought it would be-
difficult. This was the last time she saw "Carlos," He telephoned her
again on 16 November t ask what was new, and this was their last
phone contact,

72, When AMFAUNA-14 arrived at AMCOG-3's house at about 2000: hours
on 15 November 1963 for the regular Friday night supper, he took her
aside and said he wanted to speak to her privately later. At about
2330 hours she went to his room. There he told her that he had received
orders that she was to leave Cuba the following week. He said that
precise instructions were to come on 16 and 17 November, so he made a
lunch date with her for Sunday noon at his house.

73, AMFAUNA-14 was frightened by this. She did not sleep well
Friday or Saturday nights, and spent Saturday in her home,

74, Sunday afternoon in AMCOG-3's house, AMCOG-3 told her that she
was to leave the following day. She said that she did not want to.
AMCOG-3 responded that this was an order. He said that the DSE would
probably arrest her again soon, and for her own safety and that of other:
she must leave. He added that there were others who were to leave too,
whose departure had been made conditional upon her own.

73, AMFAUNA-14 asked whether AMCUTLER-2 were one of these other
people who were to leave too, and AMCOG-3 replied that she was. AMFAUNA.
14 told him that she thought AMCUTLER-2 would not agree to leave. AMC
said that he thought she would because the orders had been couched in
very strong terms. : ;

76. He then showed her the instructions, both for herself and for
AMCUTLER-2. He had her type her instructions on a piece of paper, and
then memorize them. “

77, Then AMCOG-3 gave AMFAUNA-14 the following verbal. messages ‘to
deliver when she reached JMWAVE:

(a) A colonel fnu LANDEIRA, a tank expert who had been. in the
Cuban Army under GRAU and PRIO, is a prisoner on a farm in Havana Prog.
vince He is given three days off per week to go home. His wife know!
in advance when he will be coming out, AMCOG-3 does not know the wife;
but has indirect contact to her, AMCOG-3 says the man is honest and
intelligent and @ real soldier, and if we want him out AMCOG-3 can
arrange it.

(b) As of about 1800 hours on 17 November, ‘L yo ing

SLABSIPIEATION T

infiltrated into Cuba and had been hiding at the hone of Isra

[ PASE Rs:


" uruA-iaue4

DESPATCH i 8 eCREY

bad been moved to a new hiding place, AMCOG-3 was considering trying
to help the young man into asylum in the Uruguayan Embassy through a
certain Pepin’) whose identity i# not known to AMFAUNA-14 but; who she
thinks is pn UFuguayan attache.

{c) AMCOG-3 is out of one-time pads and needs a resupply,

(ad) It is very possible that AMCUd-3 may be able to obtain
and forward a copy of AMFAUNA- 14 DSE dossier.

78. On Monday morning, 18 November, AMFAUNA-14 dressed as she had
been instructed, and stuffed a pair of slacks and sneakers into the
straw handbag which she had been told to carry. At 1300 hours she left
her office and proceeded on foot to the cowner of Atares and Arango in
Reparto Luyano, arriving there at 1400 hours. Here she exceeded her
instructions, waiting for AMCUTLER-2 not five minutes but fifteen. She
then walked very slowly toward Calzada Luyano, hoping that AMCUTLER-2
might overtake her, This consumed another ten minutes, and by the time
she reached the Calzada Luyano it was too late for her to walk the re-
mainder of the distance, so she took a taxi,

79, AMFAUNA-~14 discharged the taxi one block before theParque de
la Virgen del Camino and walked the rest of the way. She went to the
ebrine where she prayed for a few minutes, and then sat on a bench
from which she could see the whole park.

80. At 1810 hours a 1954 Buick taxi arrived at the park, The
driver stayed in the car, and two men ~ a colored man and a fair-haired
man - got out and walked around for about ten minutes, Finally they
approached her and gave the challenge, to which she gave the correct
response, One of the men then said simply "Follow me", They took her
back to the taxi and put her in the back seat with one of the men, the
other two riding in front.

81. . They headed out of the city. When the reached the Carretera
de Varadero, one of the men asked her politely if she would mind keepin;
her eyes directed down toward the floor and not look out the window,
Bhe rode this way for about two hours. By then it was dark, and she wa
told she could look up again. She took advantage of the opportunity to
change into her slacks and sneakers.

82, Finally the car stopped, and she and her two escorts got out.
They walked a long time, At one point, whistle signals were exchanged
with someone in the darkness, and two other men appeared, one of whom '
was AM@EE}2. AMFAUNA-14 and AMWEE}2 greeted each other politely, but
pretendeddmot to know each other. 3

83, They did a lot more walking and joined up with another man, whi
turned out to be the radio man. He had a lot of equipment with him,
and AMFAUNA-14 and Bey helped to carry it.

84. They now reached the mangrove and began to walk through water.
At o1 point their guide became briefly lost, but found his way again
Qlmwost:immediately. When they came to the open water, one of the guide:
went forward and signalled, The boat came in in response to the signal
AMPAUNA- 14 p\, 23, and the radio man walked out into knee-deep water
and climbed into the boat, which already had a crew of two.

85, The boat proceeded out to an unidentified key. The crew con-
cealed it in the mangrove, cleverly lacing and tying branches together
over it to form a camouflage cover, There they went to sleep.

86, The following day, 19 November, was spent at this spot. A
radio message was received during the day, At night the boat put -out
for Cayo Kegano. The waves were enormous, and. AMFAUNA-14 was terribly
seasick. The boat remained at the rendezvous point until 1045 hours, <"
with AMFAUNA-14 pleading for the crew to return to land, saying she
would rather be shot than remain so seasick. Finally the crew did put
back, saying that the ship probably would not come because thé sea was



14-00000
|__uroa-12804

87, Wednesday, 20 November, was Spent on the same key, A very, %
jong radio message was: received during the day. AMFAUNA~14 and ‘ANWEE)-2
both helped the radio man to decipher it, and their combined efforts’ :
took about three hours,’ Then they put out again for the Cayo Megano |
rendezvous point. By this time their drinking water was all gone,
The boat was overloaded, so much of the food’ and equipment was left |
behind on the key. in no ship appeared. ‘This time, inatead of t
returning to their or nal hiding place, the crew took the boat to |
Cayo Mosquito. ! i i i i aa

: |
_ B8,° Here they spent the remainder of, the night, and all cf Thursday
91 November, Thoir water was gone, there wan very little focd left,
and there was only enough gasoline left for one more one-way trip
out to. the rendezvous point, At 1400 hours on 21 November another
radio message was received With the combined efforts of the radio
man, AMPAUNA-14 and prea it' took between two and three hours to
decipher it. Everybody. was very optimistic; they were all sive that
they would be picked up that night. i in 7

89, Promptly at 2300 hours the ship was seen approaching. | The
boat put out immediately, and its passengers were taken aboard, the shi
AMPAUNA-~14 was taken into the sick bay where she was given a pill, a =|
little water, md somewhat later some warm broth, H

i H i : Hy i
90, From the moment she stepped into the boat on 18 November, unt 1
she was hauled out by ‘the armpits on 21 November, AMFAUNA-14 never left
the boat, Her side and legs were bruised from the pounding of the
8 against: the boat. A little blood vessel in her right eye was
by a twig snapping in her face as she walked through the man-

. This was treated by the ship's! doctor, i

@1. AMFAUNA~14 says that the AMHICK team performed very well, The
pickup in the park was done excellently, The slight delay while they
looked her over, she says, was due to the fact that the men had ex-
pected another woman to be with her, and they were waiting a few minute
in case the other woman should show up. The AMHICK. team said that the
had aleo boen briefed that she would be wearing her hair in a bun,

She had not been briefed accordingly, and she was wearing her hair

down her back in « pony tail, This discrepancy did not cause any con-
_fusion, because every other item of the visual recognition signals :
tallied perfectly, and the AMHICK team were well briefed on all of thei

92. AMFAUNA-14 was impressed by the precise timing of the team's
movements, by the fact that everybody was where he was supposed to be
at the time indicated. She expressed admiration for their seamanship,
and their ability to pick out one spot of mangrove from another in
the pitch darknese,

93, She says that, during these trying days, the team members were
always in calm control of the situation, and never failing in their
courtesy to her,

84. Regarding AMCUTLER-2, AMFAUNA~14 is sure that the exfiltration
instructions reached her. They were taken, she said, by Lolita FORMOS
who had been standing by for them from Friday to Sunday, What Lolita
did with them, AMFAUNA-14 does not know. She knows that we had
suggested that Lolita take them to AMFAUNA-1's nother, but she also
knows that we had indicated to ANCOG-3 that AMFAUNA-1's mother might
be under surveillance, so she thinks Lolita might have taken them
directly to AMCUTLER-2,. In any case, she knows that messages sent
proviously by AMCOG-3 to AMCUTLER-2 reached the latter, and she sees
no reason to assume. that these instructions did not.

:

95, It does not surprise AMPAUNA-14 that AMCUTLER~2 did not follow
he. orders, .ANCUTLER-2, she says, plays her own game with little con-

ration for others, Between the time that AMFAUNA-1 left Cuba on :

Geptember, and the time that AMFAUNA-14 was arrested on 7 October, 2h
AMCUTLER~2 had visited AMFAUNA-14's apartment twice. On both occasiéng, nf

SOT ESES TSE > Teiaw ne.


4 had asked her to remove the suitcase that AMFAUNA-1 had left
behind, but on both occasions ANCUTLER-2 had found some excuse not to
do so. When AMFAUNA-14 visited AMCUTLER-2 in her home in, Guanabacoa
on 3 November for the purpose of coordinating their cover stories,
AMCUTLER-2 did not seem very interested in coordinating stories or
anything else. AMFAUNA-14 believes that AMCUTLER-2 may be working for

the Second Front of the Escambray, becaus er 7.

the-Gecond=Front-of
svery close friend Lolin *CORREOSO is the fiancee of-Hipolito

fae ay Hi

who wes a collector for this organization, Among other reas

possibly keeping AMCUTLER-2 in. Cuba, AMFAUN‘-14 says that AMCUTLER-2's
mother ig sick with cancer, and there may te something wrong between
AMCUTLER-1 and AMCUTLER-2. CH Cyt,

96, AMFAUNA-14 also had her reasons for not wanting to ia
Besides the dangers of the trip, she would be leaving her mother and
father in a dangerous position, because the DSE had forced her to
Sign a confersion implicating them. While she appears to be trying not
to be overly critical of AMCUTLFR-2, she has commented that AMCUTLER-2
knows far more members of the AMFAUNA net than she herself does, so
that the reasons requiring the exfiltration of AMFAUNA-14 should be
even more compelling for AMCUTLER-2.

End of Dispatch

