# 104-10128-10112

## Page 1

104-10128-10112

8 September 1954

TO

: Chief, Special Security Division

THROUGH: Chief, Operations Branch

FROM

Chief, Projocts Desk

SUBJECT: PHILLIPS, David Atlee

#40696

GIST:

PP/Operations requests limited badge for one year for Subjoot

South America in covert capacity. DD/P personally interested in

Subjoot.

DETAILS:

1.

Attached bereto is a limited badge request from Acting

Chief/PP/Ops. This request is to allow Subject to enter Ageney

buildings for a period of one year. Also attached is a memorandum

from Do/? dated 14 euly 195k, outlining the merits of the Subjeot

and his future covert use.

Apparently the subject performed valuable

services in conneotion with PBSUCCESS. According to this latter

memorandum, the Subject is interested in staff employment. After

serving one year at leadguarters, he would be able to accept a field

assigment in South America. DD/P expressed the opinion there were

no serious problems in this arrangement.

09

2o On 7 September 1954, the writer contaoted/

-PP/Security Officer, extension 8606, in regard to this badge request.

SSO

Chief

advised it is not contemplated that Subject will be made a

Hop.

Chieb Start Employee.

to the plans of PP/Ops, as knowa to

Instead Subject te ta ha a Corst Associate, secoording

the subjeot is to serve

as a covert assooiate at Headquarto.» aur ode year for "indoctrination"

1A. 10

in Agency systems, procedures, ote.

At the end of the year he is to

be

3

Chel.

at to South Amorloa an a Covert Agent.

The writer advised

Chie!

this was an unusual situation

Lof this situation and was not in agreement wit such a procedure.

However, he advised there is considerable interest in this matter

by DD/P.

Further, Subjeot is now on & leave of absence and won't

need a badge for approximately 20 days.

would like this office

to render a decision in this matter as bous au possible in order that

CSt

Task

any problems can be straightened out immediately.

Dc Desk

Open Desk

SSD Files

1418

ZONET

40mg 2

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

6/TV

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SEGRET

ACTION:

It is recommended this matter be referred to the Cover Branch

for an immediate study and a recommendation as to aotion.

Go lo Gentile

Attachments:

PP/Ops Request

DD/P Memo

ORIGINATOR:

GENTILE :njd

8 September

1954

SEGRET

---

