# 104-10185-10138

## Page 1

104-10185-10138

COUNTRY Cuba

SUBJECT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

Bone. T03 and To the S10e1010n of perslallon

Fernando RAVELO

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

REPORT NO.

DATE DISTR.

NO. PAGES

REFERENCES

CSCI-316, 00264-64

21 July 1964

1

DATE OF

INFO.

PLACE &

SOURCE:

1963 - 1964

Eachg cred wut Only

Do Not Reprodude

washings

FIELD REPORT NO.

TNI: # UNEWALUATED

INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINOS ARE DEFINITIVE, APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE

A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Service until April 196%.

Headquarteis Comments

1. The following report is one of a serles containing personallty

Information provided by the source and includes supplemental

Information from the records of this Agency.

. It is requested that the addressees take no action on any of the

Individuals mentioned in the personality reports without first

checking with this Agency.

Fernando RAVELO, pseudonym "Fermia Rodriguez, " Is the

Panamanian Desk Officer in the Departamento de Liberacion Nacional

(LN) of the Direccion General de Inteligencia (DGI - General

Directorate of Intelligence) in Habana. He has never been in

Panama.

• Until Octöber or November 1963 RAVELO was the

number two man in Union Juventud Communista (UJC) in Habana.

RAVELO is a captain in the Army.

Headquarters Comment

1. The reocrds of this Agency reveal no identifiable information

on Fernando RAVELO.

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

5

4

3

4

1

STATE

I DIA

ARMY

REP CINCLANT

(Note: Field distribution Indicated by "#".

I MAY

AIR

CINCSO #

I NSA

I & NS

Trai

lOcK

INFORMATION/REPORT CINEORMATIONSREPORT.

VH/SA, BOB

WH/SA/MOL

WE/5/R

TICIZLIA

Les- 1595, 61-aves

WE/MADR 2 CI/R&A

IE/

NO PROJECT

IVH/SA/R

L/WASHI

(AMMUG-1)

IVH/SALCI

RID/AN

CSCI-316, 00264301

WH/WAVE

TOPALE

BIAISON

COOROMATIMO WARRAN

WH/SA 7 (1), WE 1 (2), C1 4, RID 1

royse No

1

201- None

OBSOLETE PRAVIOUS EDITIONA.

( 00)

---

