{

STATICS

RETURNTO CIA
Background Use Only
Oe Nok Reproduce

aucanearon
“SECRET

Deputy Chief, WH/SA

Chief of Station, JMWAV)

sustcr  TYPIC/Operational t
C€ MOC Amendment for Subject of 201-307337
"ACTION REQUIRED - ACFERNCES =
Action Required: Please Record Amendment

References 2A. UFGA-11381, 27 September 1963
(OC Amendment)

B. UFGA-15436, 23 April 1964
(ioc Amendment)

C. WAVE-8141, 19 June 1964

1. Transmitted herewith are three (3) copies of an
amended MOC for Subject. This amendment has been written
to provide Subject a raise in salary from $350.00 net per
month to $400.00 net.

Per Reference C, the New York funding mechanisn

was discontinued with the issuance to Subject of check for
period 1-15 June 1964, Subject will be Paid henceforth at
JMWAVE beginning. with period 16-30 June 1964,

Attachments:
MOC (3 cys) - H/w
IDEN Sheet ~- ¥3e Hi)

(3 cys)
Sa act erofaa!

Distribution:
3 - Addressee w/ voc - n/t
IDEN Sheet - USC

Andrew Ks REUTEMAN

Qep-2r73aen7
care Tek | extosntoas
22 June 1999425 BA
UFGA-16604
| RSCUARTORS Fak neem

201-307337
4

secon 2h Coy


te : ‘SECRET

MEMCRANDUI! OF ORAL COMMITMENT

TO : Chief, Special Affaire Staff
FRC: «Chief of Station, JuWAVE
SUBCECT: Engagenent of _ IDEN A + _ 201 -307337

and Project Charge. The Subjcct individual hzs been |
Sral contrséct For use undet TYPiC and ic to be charged,
nest center. The effective date of the oral contract is '
e 1964 and it shall continue until terminated oy
“Uyoi ¥i¥teen days actual notica.

2. faavity Aporeval. The apprepriate security approval to
utilize SE: iS Sequosted has been obtained. 0, Granted 6 February _
sat 1963 via DIR-18422, 6 February 1963 peewenrmazcisiasntememaiersierzzsia

isenshio. The Subject is a Cuban citizen and was
14February 1937 at Matanzas, Cuba

IDEN B i .
poneation: Comneaciug on the effective date of thia sgree-

paid compensution at che rate of $ 448.14
Such payments to be nade following completion of satisxac-

oS
per month.
tory service.

Sudject VILLAS be obligated to pay U.S. incoae

eo.
IAXXESKENKXES Godueved from the above stated paid som

tax. é

ponsation Djcct IS/TKKMEK oligible for ocial Security. # IDEN C
Subject te married End hes a total of _ three dependents
othsr than Vindely. Susjeet's dependents ave/EXKEOM Tesi ding in tha
U.S., U.S. pecsessions, Canada, Mexico, the Canal Zoic, or ths Ropublic
of Panana.

rtera and/or Subsictence. Tao Subject ‘will /MXXUQXS be
fertera and/or cubsieience. when operationally necessary.

7. Gpcretional Expenses. When properly authorized, Subject will
FET Yor?

6. &:
furnished 6

be reintu:

a. Operational travel including mileage claims for
officiel use of his persona) cutcscbile.

b. Operational hotel expensee, merle, telephone calls, ote.

er Comsitnonts. Bonus, With prior approval of the Chief
Sonus Say be authorized for outstanding porformaac? in
sty. The anouut of the toaus rill bo connensurate with
the visks ‘cken end the results vhich wero achieved; amowat not to
ete22d $360.09 por any single vomes payaent. In the event of Subject's
death in the line of duty, an amount not to excesd $5,000.00 will bo

paid to Subject's estate.

9, Contingent Obligations. No commitments othar than those

ataixi ebove Have been wade to the Subject.
: sroned,
SICTACTINE

Officer .

ary .
Leb HEB Nes rd &S tapy BOl BOP RET


SECRET

SEPARATE COVER ATTACHMENT

TO UFGA-16604

,_

Miguel DIAZ Isalgue

6th Avenue

Miami - Florida

IDEN A 7
“IDEN B 7 2328 N.E.
IDEN C :

SECRET

We [lef

Social Security

2/- 307 337
