# 104-10227-10057

## Page 1

104-10227-10057

MoscaRe no to pree in.

NO INCEIRILAGCITS DRILE NO LUDE

GLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRLI

1O , DIRECTOR

FROM , •UMWAVE

ACTION

SAS 10.

INFO

DCI,

CA 2, 'CA/PIO,

CA/PROF,

• c1, c/op3, c1/10 2.

11, 11/0, r1/1Nt 2,

1w, 00/1, 10/c1 2, A0, NI, 3/5 2.

REGASING IWO:

DATE DISTRIBUTED:

BASED ON:

DESTROY

UAISON:

SECRET

DICIA9101

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy No.

2

2

3

19.124.25

ROUTING

6

APR 11 01882.63

PRIORITY

IN 15686

TDCS

O PRITY DIR CITE WAVE 7009

" INTEL TYPIC

SUPDATA: PARAS 1-3 ALICE B. CAPONONG (P) FROM MACEO; PARA 4 ROBERT K

TROUCHARD (P) FROM WIBALDA FROM WIFE OF WIBALDA. WIBALDA CUT FRIM

SOURCE LINE.

FALED 118146Z

REPORT CLASS CONFIDENTIAL. CONTROLLED DISSEM CUBA

SUBJ: LOCAL REACTION TO THE RESIGNATION BY JOSE MIRO CARDONA

RIDOI: 18 AFR 63

'PADAS US. IS APR 63

CUFG 269$

APPR: 3

SOURCES:

PARAS 1-3 COMPETENT AMERICAN OBSERVER (B) FROM ANTONIO

MACEO AND PARA 4 COMPETENT AMERICAN OBSERVER (B) FROM MARY LOUISE

WILKINSON, REPORTER OF THE MIAMI NEWS.

I NOUTTIC

IN COMMENT,

NO DISSEMINATION OF THE ATTACHED

TO PORTION OP THIS CABLE MAD BEEN

MADE OUTSIDE THE AGENCY PENDING

SNELEASE BY THE ACTION UNLE

PID/ Al

RID/MIS

MOCS

PRECEDENCE

ROUTINE

PRIORITY

---

## Page 2

14-00000

78.

THEGHANLINFORMATION REPORT TELEGR

VM :

516H6701E

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

do none, scream do dare do Maara Drone do a unis bai.

in bondies%01 0 810-3070 hoos, Pollo 18. USE 5080.

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINTATION CONTROLS

CONFIDENTIAL

1'9AAN PULAS 1191

COUNTRY

REPORT NO, TOCS

DATE DISTR

PRECEDENCE

REFERENCES

Ci.

DAJE OF

INÇO.

PLACE &

DATE ACO.

APPRAISAL

THIS 18 UNEVALUATED INFORMATION

SOURCE

IN 15686

FIELO REPORT 110.

SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE, APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

RI:: 1. ANTONIO MACEO STATED. THAT EVERYONE AT THE MEETING OF THE

CONSEJO REVOLUCIONARIO CUBANO (CRE, CUBAN REVOLUTICHARY COUNCIL)

¿ UNDERSTOOD THAT THE FIGHT WOULD GO ON NO MATTER WHAT OCCURRED, EVEN

P IF THEY HAO TO GO OUT OF THE UNITED STATES TO DO IT.

2. JOSE MIRO CARDONA WILL STAND BY TO SEE WHAT THE WASHINGTON

REACTION WILL BE. POINT 3 OF THE SIX POINTS (DELIVERED TO THE PRESS

18 APRIL 63 BY THE CRO) LEAVES THE DOOR OPEN FOR OFFERS OF ACTION.

(FIELD COIMENT: POINT 3 STATES "TO EXPRESS THE HOPE OF THE COUNCIL

TO OVERCOME THE PRESENT CRISIS, AND TO DEMAND FROM ALL OF AMERICA,

CLASSIFICATION a DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

CONFIDENTIAL

CHOU

de010100-18808

0011 00

LIELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

"(18-20).

FORM IKA OSBOLITE PRIVIOUS TOSTIONS.

---

## Page 3

2

• CLASSISICATION - D. SEMINATION CONTAOLS

TDCS

CONFIDENTIAL

' 15686

PACE

2

INCLUDING THE UNITED STATES, MORAL AND MATERIAL SUPPORT IN ITS

STRUGGLE TO RESCUE CUBAN SOVEREIGNTY AND INDEPENDENCE,

AND THE STRICT FULFILLMENT OF UNITED STATES TREATIES AND ACCORDS, AS

WELL AS THE JOINT DECLARATIONS BY THE UNITED STATES CONGRESS WHICH

COMPEL EFFECTIVE ACTION AGAINST SOVIET INTERVENTION IN THE AMERICAS.")

• 3. MACEO IS PESSIMISTIC BELIEVING THAT MIRO WILL RESIGN. MACEO

STILL THINKS THAT THE UNITED STATES HAS A MASTER PLAN; HE IS CRITICAL

* OF MIRO IN THAT MIRO DID NOT ADVISE THE ENTIRE COUNCIL ABOUT WHAT

HE WAS DOING IN WASHINGTON.

4. MARY LOUISE WILKINSON WAS QUERIED ON HER ID APRIL MIAMI NEWS

ARTICLE STATING THAT MIRO HAD AGREED TO STAY ON AS PRESIDENT OF THE

CRC. SHE STATED THAT THIS WAS BASED ON A PRESS RELEASE BY TOMAS

GAMSA, SUB-DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC RELATIONS CRC. WHEN IT WAS POINTED OUT

TO HER THAT THE PRESS RELEASE DID NOT CONSTITUTE AGREEMENT BY MIRO

TO STAY ON BUT WAS MERELY THE CRO DECLARATION NOT TO ACCEPT MIROS

RESIGNATION, MARY LOUISE WILKINSON PHONED GAMBA, AND ASKED HIM

"DID MIRO ACCEPT THE DECISION OF THE COUNCIL AND AGREE TO STA: ON."

GAMBA ANSWERED " OH SI DEFINITIVAMENTE, POE EL MOMENTO" (OH YES,

DEFINITIVELY, FOR THE MOMEMT) (FIELD COMMENT: MIRO HAS STATED THAT

HE WOULD RENDER HIS FINAL DECISION BY THE END OF THE WEEK.)

5. FIELD DISSEM: STATE (MIAMI).

END OF MESSAGE

CLASSIFICATION - DISSIMINATION CONTROLS

CONFIDENTIN

---

