# 104-10519-10227

## Page 1

104-10519-10227

SECRET

PERSONAL RECORN QUESTIONNAIRE

PART I1 - OFERATIONAL INFORMATION

rRg NO.

-6-92065-

DISPATIN N.:

INSPRUCTIOYS TU CASE OFFICIE

SORDENI

unde

donal a

23183:4

i we

CHYRTONTA

AMPALM/ 5

SECTION • I

CONTACT HAD DEVELOPMCAT

INDICATE

NOw. WHIM.

DAY CIRDY COMTACICO DA DRUELODEO.

Subject Independently founded a Christian political movement in Cuba In opposition

to the Castro ragime.

In April 1960. he flod Cubs,

His organication wan alroady

In contact with CIA and he was placed in contact with Wallace A. PARLFIT.

Ho

agreed to cooperate with private Americans who would agalat a Cuban liberation

motement.

FEB

ANO IN A STRUNE MANNEN ID AL!

HANDLINE, lA 90.

OFFICER

Suhjoct could be turned over to any

CO knowledgable

Tanean Caban politel nuances, 1 introduced by We leo A ayaLEit

or

CHABANAC:

Ho could be contacted using state cover with outops lor

introluction.

" Ate stan

OTHER CASE GETTINS DU HATE CARTO SOONER OR COT

No others

GIVE MARES ON

TUTOR THEY MADE

, =*1050a

ust +x8y80us 49181249

SECRET

14-230

---

## Page 2

SECTION

SECRET

MOTIVATION AND CATATE

subject 18 in political opposition to the curent Cuban rogino, 1f he relurned

to his native country he would be imprinced or erecuted; ho 1a overtly known as

an enemy of the Castro regime. He has an estahlished record as an anti-Cormnisty.

his personal and political future has been committed to an anti-cormniot, anti-caotro

position.

AN AY CONTROL.

¡P GO, BRIATS OURR THE DUBIRES, ¿ll Mo inneiod, or 1l 19o

lach of Pool Exastad

The control factor 1e a realisation by subject that his present sponsore offer the

only chance he haa of returning to Cuba.

ЗЕСТОРИ 100

COVER

• В..

'COVER USCO 9Y BUDDIES AND CACE DIFICER IN PHEIR MEATINGS.

Subject 1a in offiolal of an overt organization vith headquartera in in American

city; contact with the CO varies and Includes the use of safe house facilities.

EDDIE USTO BY SUBURES IN OSTANGING HIS INTONMATICR AND IN CONTACTING HIS INFORMANTS.

Bunject 18 an overt ollichai of an overt orgeniration and obtaina Information for the

purposes of that organization.

INDICATA SERVICE INA ANICH SUMIGS THINES NE PAISE BURY (DO GOTAINE):

Subject probably assaner that ho 1s working for ClA, but thie has never been aditted

as it would be counter to existing U.s. polley.

SECTION IV

INTELLIGENCE COMRECTIONS ANO TRAINING

BONTECT•S KNOWA PAST DO PRESENT CONNRCTIGN DID ANY DIREE TEFICLTRERCE SERVICE. TEDICATE THE EXTENS

311 CHE

LONNACTION IS ANOMA DURATIN.

None

TOTORIO, WHO MADE DO SEEDECES PRESENT MNTRLLIGINCE

Subjects activitina are not of an intelligence naturo.

Every one tho knows of

knous that he 1s a nenber of the front organtration.

3, EAPLAIN ANY PRAININO SUBJECT HAS HAQ IN CLANOFSTINE OFERATIDES.

SECTION Y

_COLLABOPATION POTENTIAL

INDICATE ORDER COMICS PORTO REBIESE MOULD DE MORE LINELY 1O COLLADIDRDS DITH BRIAUSE DE MIS IORDDIN DO PASE

Subject,

as a. Cuban, would collaborate with a rightist or centriat Cuban governent.

He might collaborate with other Latin American

governents

of like corpesition.

SECRET

---

## Page 3

SECRET

•SECTION WI

OPERATIOHAL

USE

• CON FACT

BERN ISTO DO CORTACTED DIRONE..

INDICATE ACTIVITY IN PHILM ME DAS SAGAGEO

MATION ME NAS PUBHISHED

N.A.

tad

00 1A1O0.

INDICATE MOB AND YACH

THOR BUDDICT DOTAINS LABORMATION.

uojeet so an officia, or an overt organization, Arirai, which le of interest t

CIA; he furnishos data.

n the organisation as part of bis official duties. Thi

fact is knon to other offioiale of the organtration.

INDICATE BODY NAS RITA TOLD BUBIRCE AS

TO THE DIBPOSITION DE

IOPOAMATION HE FURRIENED.

subject has been told that the data he furnishes lo uood by the private American

grap that aponsore AMIRON activltios..

DETAIA JUDICT: A PROPOSED PO OR CI TIPI USE DO DUTIES.

Nodlo

D. DETAiL XUNJACI A PAGPOSIO PDIPM TYPE USE DA OUTiNE.

Subject is an official of a front group apornored by CIA.

His dutles are to conduct

his day-today activitles in such a manner as to further the efforta of the front.

SECTION VI!

PROMOSES LIAISON OR OPERATIONAL ACTIVITY

DETAIL SHOTGOR-S PROROSIO SUALARY PUPE ERALACI CA REICARIEUAL USI

A. PHERE SPIECE IS AN DEFICIAL MEMDEN OR A FOREIGN GOUPARSLAT:

Nod.

8. BUSRE SURVECT AS DO DEFICIAL MEMBER ON

AN OSTORE AGENCY:

Had.

SECTION VIN :

AGENCY RELATIONSHIP MITH SUBJECT

PERSON PROTO SUNCE MELATIONSHIP MITH SUBJECT, LIE.

TRAINEE, -OPPUSITE AUNDRA, RIMUMERA IGE. IT ANTI AGENCY

Subject is an adminiatrator of a front group

directly by CIA.

sponsored by CIA. He la not paid

lie knows Terence S. CRABANAC (P) under allas.

SECRET

-....

---

## Page 4

SECRET

QUALIFICATIONS FOR OTHER OPERATIONS

SECTION IX

PON UTMEN

DRIDATIONA.

Bub foct nay have political influence in a nubsequent cuban poverment.

SECTION A

CUAN 1 THEN TS

1,9

+0FOOРОSEВ

TO FAY

HANSECT

• DEGURAN SALADY..

INDICATI

METAir ANOURI, IP PAYMIMI TO DE MADE IN EXCHANGE

De OTTEN METICO, SPECION AND dIVE DETAILS.

No caud tmento nade.

CE AND SECURITY

ANO FIRED FILES

11TH 19441120

SUbJECT'S

19 ASAK MAS

BERN CHECHEO

AND THE RESULTS.

INDICATE

THE PIELD

Havana station files, NDI.

INDICATR

None

AY GIOGRAPHICAL

av. SUAJIC?.

10608C ATR

#HIINED

19B9 PROVISIGNAL

PROVAL

NON 9092268-5198 405

POA

RED.

OPERATIOYAL AP.

21 March 1960

EVALUAYA DUBIRCY'S GHAMA.TED.

DENEABILITY AND DECUMITO, CITING RUIDENCE WAFAE POSSIBLE

Subjectis character seems consistent with his background.

No evidence has been

forthcoming to indicate security flaws or lack of rellability.

6. CHOLAIN ANO SITUATIGE

INDISCHATID 1O MICH SUBJECT MAY MAVE

OCRY INVOIVED GHICH MUST ON CHALUATED FROM A

CFISPERATIONAL BEGUNITY GIENFOLER.

Hone

ЗЕСТОН X11

B. USE ON LIDUDS, DRUGS, GAMILING, PARROURS.

SUBJECT'S PERSONAL MAUITS

None known.

SECRET

---

## Page 5

14-00009

SCCTICE XILL

MCDт OR

SECRET

AVOCATIONAL INTERESTS

spanis.

Nano known.

ЗЕСТІОМ ХІМ .

SUBJECT'S LANGUAGA

DO A COUNTRY ON REGION OTHER THAN

No

INDICATE

CORRESPONDENCE OR

Research

GONERAL

ARD OTMES CHADA ТЕЛ B:IS. AN! SUH A$ МЕ

ERPLAIn.

ganse deek

OTHER

THAN

ROUTINE ACTION IS RIGUIRED, E AND WHEN TRRNIRATION OF

SURGICT-IS EFFECTED, PIRASE EIFLAIR.

supra)

(Also

N.A.

SECTION XY

EMERSEATI CONDITIONS RECONTACT APRANCEMINTS

GIA FULL DEPAILS DIE. RECOGAITIDE SICAB, 8, 1/EI

AHERE COULD COOTACT DE MADL:

MAXING CONTACT USED

SEAT DORA PIERS COLO 199I+IOUAL

N.A.

SECTION KVI

MISCEL ARISIS OPERATICHAL CATA ANO REMARAS

None

DATE

2 February 1961

SICHATURE OF APPRDONIDET CANIOR DESIGEO

SECRET

---

