# 104-10172-10311

## Page 1

104-10172-10311

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Nat Reproduce *

giml)

ng

qeuil

SECRET

¡D MRA DILLID INI

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

INSTHICTIOAS: Uie0 aa-er dodianalione la tho "TO" nilwas

e uno scrono lão abtol undor darl cruaeroce.

#ure'or did rovamast ao eprroaiond mil lho suriar ta lho TC' rr-ta

Thie Mrutang and Rarhd short ADouid NOI bo resseral bom to stailed SNWRD Arunene

Tacl afcror atraid daro an1 Isilia: ,rbora msdrl Inouiheroall Daldo Aulhar toertuag

FROM:

Ril

RIJAN

DOCURANP NUMBER

COFH9-03000

COCUMENT DATE

TO

AựE/1

6/LUÉ-1

3.

USI/E

uE1/CF

ROOM

NO

DATE

COPMAROEO!

1613

E18 NAR 1959 HaN ")".

2/1m

Ápr.

%/ đ/

8.

COMMENTS

NOTE: 88 a nopy 08 aftachments ee posoredl, fram iio af.

monê harara. 18 thia RECORD COPY IS 1O NO MNAiDAS I

Phe lles as 1ho Dosk, call lhe Corual Nio Sertion lor per

'aoar bar /i C sent le 5K/ 214-1

2-3 : Pe.teli

Hhat we thrink C.

sooald respored in a

riormal, chiptomate

ilnwonerto.

wirthin bang s,

rit aceptin trao tm

annftre

and occasinal

r. Soretta.

petny

10.

18.

12.

13.

14.

RI/FI

roocrte 6100

1406L

el/UNS

GoLL'o, Grigorig Ye,

SECRET

FILE NUMBER

201-150156

ENCLOSI

P IVAx54

CHRONO - DETACHED

ABSTRASI X

INDEX

---

## Page 2

14-00000

DISPATCH

Chief, hi

Chief, S.!

FROM

16.r6

(U-)

_chief of station,

KEICAP

acraminor.

ortgurly Ye GULUB and Costille Contact

None

02-320

201- 150156

MARCIS AIR CODERAL

PREBINO CAN DE JUDGIO

BY QUAID.8UNZ DISE ONLY

On 18 February the undersimed was invited to lunch by Grigorly

The first overture wag

made by Colub during a Consular Corpa

lunch lunt on 12 February.

Following this lunch, the group divided up

into smallor tables of seven or eight for coffee and cognac.

directly to Costille's table where the Canadian Vice Consul, the British

Vice Consul and two Finne were already sitting.

H1e Megt words were

directod to Costille, Colub stated that he would like to invite Costillo

to lunch aome time but understood that it was against regulations for

Americans to socializa with Soviets.

He cited as an example the former

American Vice Consul's constant refusal to lunch with him. Costille

responded that this was a personal thing and that all Golub had to do was

A call was received on 16

February, and the date was set for 1200 hours on 18 February.

2. The lunch lasted for three hours and took place at the Adlon

Restaurant, which 19 one of Golub's favorite restaurants in Helsinid.

will report the whole converestion for whatever it is worth.

will have to sign Costille's visa to the USSH, Costille mentloned that he

was shortly (February 28th) planzing a trip to Moscow and Leatherad on a

guided tour and would like any advice Golub had as to the best restaurants

and night spots to visit in these cities. Colub said that he was aware of

Costille's trip, as his vias request had to pass through him.

that it wag an excellent idea for Costilie to go to the Soviet Union,

gave him two or three restaurants in each city.

He again brought up the

Issue of Anericans abroad refusing to have contact with Soviets.

that he understood our feeling because of the Hungarian incident, but felt

6 Feb, 1959)

He then proceeded to dege-ibe 05YJ2 (See (OFHA-3748, para 3,

to Costille and asked 1.

Costille had met her before.

Costille angwered that he had once or twice

at Embassy functions, as he

had all Fulbrighters, but that he did not know

her personally.

Golub was evidently very impressed with AB 3y&stating that

ghe knew Russian and had a sincere desire to leamn more ebout the Soviet

nion. He added that the trip was expensive but (4El3 was borrowing th

oney from her parents and was plannine to pay it back once she rot a job

Golub thought her trip was an excallent thing.

3. The conversation turned to comparative Foreign Services. Golub

stated that he is allowed one paid vacation to Moscow a year.

he wants to take any more vacations, he has to pay for then himself.

cited as an examcle his wife's recent trip to Moscow where she visited her

sick mother, This he personally had to pay for, as they had already used

up their one paid vacation. Golub stated he could not afford a car and

that he had to pay for his apartment out of his salary and vas not given a

rent allowance.

(The Golubs still have no children but are very desirous

of having a family.)

Golub was quite proud of his war record during the second lorld

liar. He then stated what a terrible thing it would be to have another war

because of nuclear weapons.

63 C00"

PaGe AN

7/MV

нады

10N 53

193юA

40 91 78

---

## Page 3

14-00000

COMTRUATIÓN OF

DISPATON

Cossalia segret that porhaps in the digilstant future both the U.s.

ani the lion rouid have sore so fear sion hind inan irus each other and

bright up the casauna issue.

costine sentiones dal the comunes were

cos letely alien to his way

of thizire ts tere tie more objectionable

way of lisaia to could

rossibly isture. ülub responied that Coscilie

aust remember that China and the Lisa vero clfferent countries and that

that might de good for China nighi n'i recessaris be pood for the USSR.

lie did tos actually state but indicated trat he suid not like living in

a corrune end said that he personslit lied ene jeeline of owning a few

things. At no time did Golub appear uset or surerised at Costille's

askir such cuestions and was always enred tim a quick anster.

He

1s quito knowledgeable and conversari or Yard a Leninis.

During the lunch Golub made a rubber of references to the amount

of work he had and complained that he did not have nore help at the Soviet

Corsulate. He stated that his enly asle assistan: vas Lyubinor (evidently

Mikhail Petrorich Lyubimor) who was only in the consulate part time. He

stated tha: this was Lyubtmor'g rat assigment outside of the USSR and

that he was quite young and naive, though very inielligent, Lyubinor

speaks inglish and Swedish. Golub statad that Lyubinow was quite shy and

was apprehensive. about going out and meeting pooçle. Golub stated that

Lyubteor had a flancee in Moscow and appured quite lonely here althout

Colub is extremely congenial and likeable and enjoyed playing the

His Finnish is excellent and he claims to inow no English.

However, when Costille was having difficully with Finnish, Golub was able

to put these English words into Finnish. He picked up the tab for the meal

but undoubtedly will be reimbursed as he put tke bill into his pocket.

7 When Costille appeared vorried about getting his visa in time for

the trip on 23 February, Golub stated not to worry that he would personally

see that the visa cane through in time.

at the inbassy to tell him that all the risas of the Anericans making the

trip were retumed from Moscow approved. He stated that he had made a phone

call to Moscow requesting they hurry the risas up.. Otherwise, we would have

neter received our visas in time, according to Golto. Golub then invited

Costille to be his guest at the Soviet finnish ice hockey gane in Heisinid

on 22 February. Costille accepted. Nothing of inportance was done or said

at the game except that Golub appeared quite upset when the Finns around

hi= cheered shenever a Soviet player fell or was knocked down.

Golub phoned Costille on 26 Februery wanting Costille to have lunch

again with hir before his departure to Moscow un 22 February. Costille de-

cLined because of previous engagements. Golub wished Cestille a pleasant

Journey and pmaised to call Costille when tie letter returred.

ROODINS NOTE:

When Costille first asked about the above invitations, Roodine

advised bin to accept for, as a merter of the

1t would be

norkel and not inappropriate.

32

sile Coil.

13 March 1959

Distridution

3 - KS

-SA

2

14-1

3/17%1

MATION

6 71080 80 384

post to at 'oncel:!

Tronaro

ANT NO

2

---

