104-10193-10008

MEMORANDUM OF CONVERSATION

SUBECT 2 Yeeting with Dr. &

ly

a

Prior to departing from Washington on 1 <

instructed by Tracy Barnes to contact Dr. Rit in}

instructed to assure RAY:

A, Thet "we" perscnally hold himia
that while "we" are not backing s-7
group in the political sense, ve 32
with his program and his aims.

B, That "we" are prepared to render ht

the delivery of suck materials,
for this purpose prosently exists.

‘gouel “Wanole” iF

that Dr. RAY need. be beholden to 252 Frente,

C, That we understcod he is planing +o return to Gita,

We feel that this would be a wise mrve,
shis connection

consequently urge hin to do so

end

wo aro prepared to offer him a comunicetor snd ctier
similar assistance so that he ca maintain conta:t

with his peosle.

T hed plemed to see RAY on his reti

the afternocn of 3 January 1961, but the iminency of a tovak of

diplozatic relations between the United 3:
me to return to Havana on the morning of 3
Consequently, my mesting with RAY was post:
when an appointment was mode through WIEST
at the latter's apartzent.

oy

Cur meating lasted approximately three hours -
We covered a wide range of subjects, the biz
shall try to cover in succeeding paragrasts.

23 ani Cuba compelled
mery 1°61,

mati



5.

‘minds of groat ‘numbers “of. ogon}6.
. ofthe. governitent -now ‘see:

STR” for Wat he ts..a cynical. dictater,
t @-ma ‘any people vho still view:-hia as a. porular leader
who fy trying:to help.ris peopl tick hore 4h. the propaganda line
fa:necessary ‘he said’to: presont CASTRY to the people in a.truer light.
Tacthie connection. he said that thé SRP hopes within. the next. three

o acquire broaicasting facilities ‘in Costa Rica,

“woeks or 30 to

Venozuela and perhaps acquire a ship from which propaganda could
be disseminated. :

ATETTUDS TOWARD-THS FRENTE,” RAY fool's that the Frente has little re
to offer the people of Cuba for «ke future, For exomple, he said,
there 1a great discontent in the Cuban Rebel Army which could te
exploited if these, dissidént elements could have sone assurance that
they were laying down their lives for'a worthwhile causs. RAT

dogs not feolthat ‘the action aid ecaposition of the FAD inapires

such confidence. He did not Fention-any nates specifically, smong

the FRD:which would represent: a "return to the past” bit he did

say that one of the Executive: Konbers (head of a departaont, T

believe is how he put it) had: been a bie time contractor during
BATISTA’s ragime and that wheh-RAY took over the Ministry of Publte
dorks under-Prosident URRUTIA, he learned. that this sae contractcr
had praviously presented.e bill and collected’ 300,0C0 posoa for a
pubiie works project wiich'was never undertaken, Inetond of having the
man. jailed, RAY. said: that ‘heas Minister of Public Works rerely
insisted that:the Job be done. He commented that he (RAY) would

néw probably “have to pay for this." I presume he meant that this
particular porson will’ eventually sack some tyre of parsonal reveary.
RAY also ga‘d that-"one of the five” nerbers of the .FRD confided to
hin thet. he 16 not.happy. but there is little he can do about it because
"he is there." -RAY repeated gone of tha usual criticisms of the T= ~
high living," petty politics, "everyboiy receiving a salary." sai the
"obvious fact" that the U.S, Governcent is picking up the tab. bys ty
he said was fire with the }RP because it ~as causing disillustone?
Cubans within and without Cube to twn to the “RP as the only hore,

He was quite frank in steting that vhile he is willing to "cooperate
with the Frente, he did not want the SRP to become identified is wh
Cuban mind with the Frente; arid thus itsolf bee te discredited thrsagh

"association." :



chad told Kr, -

‘cetera, and vith everything all set:
1 ir td: "three “days: ago®
. told that’ the arms rust bear tre sticker of the Frente, othervise .

*no.arma," He said that thia-was absolutely coptable to him,

He “said he. did not “fasist. or particulurly ask that the arms be. \
ddentifiad with "RP™-stickers, so:therefore he could not ‘seq eny :

Justification for insisting that the arms bear the FRO label. He- ‘
gaid that his group has done. all. the orerational plannire. for the drop,
courfers hava gone -back and ‘forth Wotween Havana and ‘the Escanbrays,
maps have bean drawn up, DZ's have been arranged, ord now he is
told that the equirment which he had boon told vas being supplied.
to his sroup must bear the label of the rival "FRD," It is obvious
that while we say that: ve look uron the Frente as a non-rolitical
grouping of various’ osposition sroups, RAY .1doka -uron the Frente as
the political organtsation of Tony V‘RCNA. and I personally do not
fee) sanguine: that. any anount of explanation will change. his
“thinking in-this regard. Here, and elsevhere during our conversation,

I. noted a.certaia arouxt of intrenstgeace and Jac’ of tolerance on

the part of RAY wiich does not. boie well for tho future, unloss, he.

can be made to realise that his croup and following aro,not the sole

repository of. virtue, honesty, competence ani ;ood intentions, RAY

fe'an idealist, He dreans. of a ienocratic Cuba, free of corruption,

ruled by se, who. are selflessly dedicated to the promotion of the

ganeral welfare. When I said to RAY that Tony YARCNA and ether

leaders of the FR) would say that they too stand for these things. he

acain ‘sailed and sald: "The curious thing is thet thoy do not ccme-

out ‘and say unequivocally that they stand for, these things.

Instead they say we are Cutans --we are-not Englishren, .we ‘are not

Americans, ve are not Germans - ve. are Cubana," What they rean to say,

ke vent.on. ig that gelfishness,.scme corruption. et cetera, is rert

of thé Cuban wake uj and’that this boing the case-it 1s unrealistic

‘and impractical to think thet Cusans can aspire to a denocracy

based on integrity and fiscal honesty such as ve have in the United .

Statea, om England. or other more advanced doocricies of Yestern
Europe, He feels that.the veorle of Cuba yearn for such @ dexocracy
and they do not seo the chance of fulfillment in the compositicn of

the Frente, Therefore ke wishes to exboiy in the MRP thosa men whose



“b=

rerutations se clean = he Lept- referring to Felim Pasos, ag an
exarpie - and thus bold out to the Cubans tn Cuba a hop? of better

days to cane = and to provite then a cause for which to fight.

Nithout a will te fight -on tha part of the poorte of Cuba, he sald,
CASTRO Wil never be overthrow, Tho will to fight joes not exist

on the scalo that is needod to achteve success. Tro Frente is
completely Incapable of yroviiing the inspiration frem which such

a will can stem, Consequentaly, 1t is ur to the MRP to tnsrire the
confidence of the ;eople by brinving tomthor those persons and elements
whom the people trust and who are not fdentifted with the corrupt

past. The people of Cuba, he said, cannot stand another disappointment.
Their hopes must not be raisod again, only to auffer another betrayal.

PROVISIONAL GOVERNMENT, I brourht un tha subject of a provisional
government, @ government in exile, but rrefaced my remarks by saying
that I vas only oxpressing my personal views. I said: "Don't you
feel that tho problem of whose sticker gous on tha air drops, and vho
gets credit. for this or that, vould be resolved if an Assenbly of
Opposition Groups were to mast and to democratically elect a rrovistonal
governzent, composad of honest, competent nen of unimpeachable record.
Wiich would represont ail tho divorss opposition groups and which vould
raise tho. hopes and provide the will to fight to the Cubans ta Cuba
who are uhcortain and confused with respect to the future?”
Ho said he was opposed to a coalition rovararont made up of representatives
of various political parties -ag-a proviotone}-fovernment bacnusé Ka
was sure such a government vould not be abte to provide tha united,
honest, non-partisan type of leadership which will be required following
the fall of CASTKU, ite would prefer a government of "integration"
rather then a povernnent of “coalition,” By that he said he meant
that best qualified men would be asked to serve their country in
an'apolitical capacity, That these men vould be measured by thelr
experience, conretence, raputation, ete., and little or ao concern
should be given as to their political affiliaticns, A governzent

ekly win respect of the Cubea porulation;

composed of guch men would ai
ot men! could get on with the job of ree-nstructing the coumtry,
ations, “since

completely subordinating cartivsan political consider
such men would not be politically ambitious. Moreover, a government
composed of such outstund'ng xen would win tha gcnSidenca of foretgn
countries which vould bo nora disrosed to 1 de an
urgent necessity from the very start, So far as the +

is concerned, it wenld be apol{tical. The verfous
and their loaders would be freo to prerare for the coning elections -
whethor they be in 6, 12 or 18 montis. at which tine the Cubsn saople
in free elections could Jeciie viich po'itten! party it vanted to

govern the country,

And at what juncture of tha

rnment appear, He was
s point, He
lished on the x:

I.asked RAY who would salect thess ren.
strugele against CASfRO would 4 provisional -
a little fuszy - probably {intentionally = oa
indicated that some work hai already bean sce:

ca

te



8.

CONSTITUTION OF 2040. I satd-to RAYS "I. undaravand you do. not want
to retain tho Conatitution of 1940." Has: at this.” He said
this question -has-been fut to hin before. Often bel'iperently,

However, hé said, each tire.that te.has oxplainsi wry ho feels that

the Constitution must be reuritten te has ended un convincing the

yerson fn question that certain features of tha Constitution of 1940

aro either unworkable, und2-ocratic or obsolate, He sald ‘fav of the
people who cat worked uy over the Constitution have. aver read. the
Constitution ant: therefore de not know .what they are’ talking about,

Fe said the-Conatitution is not }!ke the Azerican Constitution

which. sets out.-its precepts. in general tema’and covers basic

questions. of government, The Ctiban constitution ia a long. ratbling
docurent that often foes’ into minute detail! of rules and regulations
which have no place: in. thebasic lav of te Jani, First..he said. he
wanted to make it absolutely clear that he “loves” those provisions

of the Constitution which suarantee indivitual liberties,’ private
However, there are other carts of tha Constitution

which are impracticable, -With respect, to Acrarian Reform, -he pointed
out, the Constitution requires imediate psynent in-cash.. He said

in no country of ‘the world has ‘an agrérian rrogram bean carriad ‘out

with icrediate cash payrents. “Not only does the covernnent ‘not: have the
money to carry out such a-vrogram, but if {t itd ‘it would result in :
inflation and a serious dislocation of the eccnomy. The electoral

Jaws, he said, are very. complex. and those relating to apportionment

ef the Congress can éniy result in corruption, I rozarked: “You

mean they are written in sucka way that they invite corruption?

he said: “hore than that, they fore? corrustion." He said‘under the
Present, set-up one has to elthor be a nilliongire or bo uble to borrow
200,000° pesos (and thus acce;t cormitments) in ordér to be elected to
He said’he would like to gee this rart: of tho Censtitution
written along the American lines, Also, he said the laws relating to
the raising of revenue are archale, He said thet 'n order to acquire
nonoy for a given program. a specific tax must be applicd designed to

property... ete,

congress.


the "political": ocnaidérationa = vhich-he
indfeated (without clerification) :- vere going quite ‘satisfactorily =
would*be, satisfactorily: conclied in "tvo weeka or a0," WIESINGER.
asked? "Do: you'nedn ‘aftor 20 January?" - Rit smiled ‘but mate no reply.
We said ‘that Ke hed Hoped that he had settled the matter of the logistical
support when he taiked: ; Blast, but it now appears thst it is
not settled and that they ray haveto return to Cuba without thie
support, He vaid’he was leaving for Ney York on 9 January end would,
remain thére until Saturday, “15 January, lie sald be could be reached
through, Raul CEIBAS.; Iotold him that Ithought-he should return, as
~ goon ashe could, and. that ve were..craparad to sagidt him in’ every vay
poasible,<ineluiing providing him with a communicator. He said. we ‘had
already trained ‘a comiunicator for his group who hed been infiltrated
“into Guba and.ne wondered viers that man waa ct the preeeat tima <
whether 4n Havana or ‘the Hills, ‘either I.nor WIESINGER could enliphten
him on this point, except to say that he was safely in Cuba,

10, During the entire interview, with =ne exception, RAY was his usual.

However, ha did. show exotion when he asked he
fe I thought smacno-was trying to sabotage hia efforts to surply the
resistance proups in Cuba. For example, he first brourht up. ani it
was vost obvious that it 1a.a matter of groat concern to him. the
matter of thd plans, maps, etc., for the MRP action against. he Isle of
Pines, Ho said a carefu'ly coonfinated plan hat beenlaid on, That
BARQUIN. discussed it with "Jirzy," That BRIN asked "Jinny” if the
map and other pacers could be <e‘Svered tn.Cuba within 48 “ours,
“‘WSinay" assured BARWIN that they could and LRN handed ‘then over.
RAY sald that BAX IUIN erred in doing this as they had there own
facilities for transmitting the capers, The parers never: arrived at
their destination, nor have they aver becn heard from again, Ag a
consequence. a plnn of great irvirtwicw had to be abaviened, and aa
irreplaceab!o oprortunity lost. # oxtrenely agitated wten he
talked of this matter and although NIESING:R and I attazpted to

assure him thet Fe was rot being saboteged and thet there wera no
"coorunists" trying to frustrate. his activities, he nonetheless is

quiet, soft-spoken self.



12,

ee  &

“7 ‘

Agave. and will ‘not be centant until he has.@
fanation, Nov, ho days. ho $8 confr-nted with. thi
irop to. the people in th Secexbruys. "Jo you think
084 mel ‘out for. some reason oF other. ee
sé unacceptable ecniitions are placed et the: Last.
ould be farther from the truth, A

worked. ul
efactory

“expl
afi

wos,
‘a conerate. exemple
he-has: ‘baen lead to believe ke will receive.

SNCS ORGANIZATION. Wa discussed. briefly the MXP intel:
group being Gigenized under WiZSINGIR's ruldance. We pointed out thet
‘Little propress hed been node ‘dus to the fact that BARN = RAY's
‘desipnee: for tho Job + had so cary other responsibilities that ha
‘could not give this matter his undivided attention. PAT leughed
Gnd aaid that BARIUIN hag been eiven:no other resronaidil ities, but
ghat he hag edught out other responsibilities his own which are
tine taking. He promised to think about this end vas egreeaole to
assigning a "shirt sleeve" type of ooerator to work with WZSINGZR
von thenuts and bolts. ‘The name ‘of fiicolas VTiDGZA was sugrestod
by the underaigned (in prior consultation with WIZSIG7A7 ae a person.
tt considerable intelligence and drive and endowed with a willingness
to carry out orders. Nicolas, wee is a brother of one of Rat's
losest nen, Ignacio MEIDOZA, was acceptable to RAY end be asked
WISSINGER 4f he could ascortain Nicolas’. present whereabouts 60 .

‘that he could. be propositioned on the subject.

‘The weoting broke up after ton o! clock. Tt ves cordial throughout
ine T feel cleared the air a little although st settled no matters: of
conséquence.. I told RAY I vas going to Washington on Monday andy.
corset ensuitations, might wish to see him agein- He said be vould
eetecce onother get-together and that T could reach him through

CHIBAS ‘during ‘the current week.

a ee

{Fis bevief that he ras-not received ©

