# 104-10105-10044

## Page 1

104-10105-1004)

..:

SEN

1 WILL CHECK CLASSIFICATION TOP AVI

UNCLASSIFIED

CONFIDENTIAL

TTOM

I SECRET.

OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP

TO

NAME AND ADDRESS

DATE

INITIALS

Mr. John Greaney

2

OGC 7 D 07

3

4

TUBE BX- 5 Green

WTL

5

5 Cleared of Plotting

6

To Import Márijuana

ACTION

APPROVAL

COMMENT

CONCURR

MIAMI, Sept. 4 (AP) A federal

jury has cleared five men of charges

of plotting to import tons of marijuana

into the United States.'

REPARE REPLY

File

COMMENDATIO!

ETURN

IGNATURE

Cleared were arms dealer Mitchell

WerBell Ill of Atlanta; William Bell;

Remarks:

a Raleigh, N.C., businessman; Gerald

Cunningham, a Deerfield Beach, Fla.,

arms dealer; John Nardi, a Cleveland

!, Teamsters union official, and Morton

Franklin, a Cleveland financier. Their

trial lasted two weeks.

Defense attorneys argued that their

5

clients had been enticed into

the

conspiracy by Drug Enforcement Ad-

ministration agents rather than by

their own intent.

05

is

trom

I double-

1 to locate it.

Prosecutor Karen Atkinson admitted

• in final arguments that-DEA agents

liad enticed the defendants.

Yopkins

WE SepT. 11- WASH. POST

FOLD HERE TO RETURN TO SENDER

FROM: NAME. ADDRESS AND SMONE NO.

DATE

UNCLASSIFIED

× 9127

2.9.26

CONFIDENTIAL

SECRET

(40)

горм по. 237

Use previous editions

'CIA HISTORICAL NEVEN PROGRAM

RELEASE AS SANITIZED

41999.

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SEN

UNC'

THECK CLASSIFICATION TOP AYE

CONFIDENTIAL

TTOM

SECRET

TO

1

2

3

NAME A/

Mr. John is:

OGC 7

TUBF

PISSES MONE

Can 1 0i6t

any ind

ACTION

APPROVAL

COMMENT

CONCURRENCE

FILE

INFORMATION

File

EPARE REPLY

COMMENDATION

ETURN

SIGNATURE

John -

My alert chief, &

03

clipped this item. He said it is from

5 Sept 76 Washington Post. I double-

checked that issue but failed to locate it.

Perhaps I overlooked it.

Chris Hopkins

FOLD HERE TO RETURN TO SENDER

FROM: NAME. ADDRESS AND PHONE NO.

CONFIDENTIAL

DX 7127

UNCLASSIFIED

FOM NO. 237

Use previous editions

DATE

7.9.21

SECRET

140)

=

---

