# 104-10413-10271

## Page 1

110410413-10271

DISPATCH

SECRET

Chief, WH Division

DESENSIIED

Chief of Station, Mexico City

•per ESN 43-43

SUBJECT

Monthly Operational Report for Project LIENVOY

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

Action: •None. For Headquarters Information.

Reference: HMMA-21845, 30 July 1963

XX

PROCESSING ACTION

MARKED FOR INDEXING

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED DESK

CAN JUDGE INDEXING

MICROFILM

1. There follows the monthly operational report for Project LIENVOY

activities during July 1963.

2. Target Lines - July 1963.

The following lines were covered during the month of July:

(continued)

Enclosure:

Production Report

Distribution:

i3 - WH, w/encl

Excluded fron anicmalle

dowagrading and

declassllletion

CROSS REFERENCE TO

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER.

HMMA -22005

0830%

Removed from ProjeCt /DODER

CS Classification

JOB # 23:175/74

50-8-25/3

Box:_ 29 Fold: le

50-6-?3/3

DATE

23 August 1963

HQS FILE NUMBER

50-6-75/3

---

## Page 2

13-00000

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

CLASSIFIGATION

"SECRETE

DISPATCH SYMROL AND NO

HMMA -22005

10-29-69

46012=70

Movimiento de Liberacion Nacional

•C. T A

35-30-52

46-60-15

46-60-16

14-42-37

14-92-14

25 = 07=095

25-09-14

14-13-26

15••60m 55

15-6155

15-69-87

15% 61=07

15-12-64

4561-80

45-61-81.

Pontica (Revista - Manuel Marcue Pardinas)

Prensa Latina

Prensa Latina

Cuban Embassy

Cuban Embassy

Cuban Embassy

Cuban Embassy

Cuban Embassy

Soviet Embassy (Chancery)

Soviet Embassy (Chancery)

Soviet Embassy. (Military Attache)

Soviet Embassy (Commercial Office)

Soviet Embassy (Films Representative)

Czech Embassy

Czech Embassy

On 7 August 1963 the Station EE case officer requested LIENVOY coverage of

the Yugoslav lines: Arrangements are being made to put these lines in within

the near future.

3. Processing of LIENVOY Information.

The Station continues to receive full transcripts in Spanish from ten

lines (five Cuban Embassy and five Soviet Embassy). DIR-60764 dated

13 August 1963 asked the Station to send to Headquarters one copy of the full

transcripts from the Cuban Embassy lines. These are being forwarded on a

weekly basis.

The first group is being forwarded as an attachment to HMMA-22000

dated 21 August 1963. If they do not please Headquarters officers who desire

them, it is requested that the Mexico Station be promptly advised with any

suggestions for changes.

On 6 August 1963 Orville HORSFALL, staff agent, arrived. in Mexico

to work presently as a unilateral monitor but eventually as the supervisor of

a tap center either under LIENVOY or UITEMPO. He has established himself

outside and is presently at work eliminating the backlog of Soviet tapes.

Douglas J. FEINGLASS continues to do the Russian from LIENVOY,

the Russian from two LIFEAT lines on Soviet targets, and the Russian from

the LIPAWN audio operation. In addition, FEINGLASS sends clipped transcripts

to the Station ready for 201 files.

4. Exploitation of LIENVOY Information.

HMMW -11831 dated 6 August 1963 indicated that Headquarters was

not well informed on the way the Mexico Station exploits operational leads from

LIENVOY. The outside staff agent, Arnold AREHART has instructiong to alert

the Station immediately if a U.S. citizen or English speaking person tries to

contact any of the target installations. This is done by a telephone call from

outside the tap center at a pay phone to Robert B. RIGGS inside the Station.

Emergency meetings are arranged in double talk (meeting for coffee or lunch).

RIGGS meets AREHART within fifteen minutes at a pre-arranged downtown

location and receives the reel with an extract of the pertinent conversation.

The reel is then taken to the Station and given to the case officer responsible

for the target the person was trying to contact.

Headquartera is notified by

cable of the action taken. Only in rare cases is information on a U.S. citizen

passed without prior Headquarters approval.

ГРАТИН

USE FENIOUS EDITION:

.53n.

---

## Page 3

13-00000

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

".!

SAC RA

•ISPATCH SIMBED AND NO

HMMA-22005

Other leads appear in the full transcripts or daily resumen. They

also are exploited by the Station' case officer responsible for the target where

the lead appears. For example, on 12 August 1963 Boris KAZANTSEV,

recently arrived Counselor of the Soviet Embassy and former defection target

in Mexico, called his wife at their residence. The number was not listed but

was immediately checked by Raymond GERENDE who determined that the

number was the switchboard of theapartment house where KAZANTSEV and

several other families live. The reason the Station checked out this number

was to put unilateral coverage on it if possible; however, the switchboard was

beyond the Station's capability tohandle.

Maryknoll priest Felix McGOWAN contacted the Cuban Embassy on

31 July 1963.

MEXI-5565 reported details of this contact.

This cable was sent

to Headquarters for dissemination and action by ODENVY.

Professor WEBB ({nu) of the University of Louisiana contacted Mexican

Communist Jorge L. TAMAYO Castillejos, prominent Mexican Marxist intel-

lectual and professor at the University of Mexico, and arranged to meet with

him on 31 July 1963 ..

MEXI-5568 reported this contact to Headquarters for

dissemination and action by ODENVY.

Bartolo ({nu) contacted former Governor of Baja California, Braulio

MALDONADO Sandez on 16 July 1963 regarding the sale of Cuban pesos. MEXI-5569

reported this contact to Headquarters for dissemination and action by ODENVY.

5. Liaison

On 15 August 1963 Willard C. CURTIS met with LITENSOR to arrange

for a sensitive PBRUMEN case (MEXI-5789 reported the details of this meeting).

6. Security

There were no security incidents within the project during this month.

7. Technical

There were no

technical problems during this period.

8. Personnel

Orville HORSFALL's arrival is the only change in personnel since the

last report and he is handled as an independent agent by the Station, with no

LIENVOY personnel aware of his presence in Mexico. Robert B. RIGGS sees

HORSFALL daily to deliver and pick up tapes.

9. Production

There is attached a list of reports, cables and dispatches forwarded

to Headquarters during this month.

Hillard (Corles

llard C. CURTIS

FORM

10.57 530

USE PATIOUS EDITION

PAPI. "ES FORMS

§2RA AND 51.29

SECR

PAGE NO

CONTINUED

---

## Page 4

13-00000

SECRET

SLUME I

PRODUCTION - JULY 1963

MEXIs

MEXI-5570

MEXI-5569

MEXI-5565

MEXI-5532

MEXI-5487

MEXI-5465 (HMM-7547)

MEXI-5459.

MEXI-5458 (HMM-7543)

MEXI-5457 (HMM-7544)

MEXI-5452

MEXI-5438

MEXI-5412

MEXI-5377 (HMM-7525)

MEXI-5353 (HMM-7524)

MEXI-5351 (HMM-7523)

MEXI-5340

MEXI-5334

MEXI-5296

MEXI-5295 (HMM-7403)

HMMAS

HMMA - 21824

HMMA -21802

HMMA - 21762

HMMA -21742

HMMA -21709

HMMA -21693

HMMA - 21681

HMMA - 21673

HMMA - 21672

HMMA -21669

HMMA- 21655

19

11

SECRET

HMMS

HMM-7542

HMM-7539

HMM-7502

HMM-7501

HMM- 7500

HMM-7499

HMM-7498

HMM-7497

HMM-7496

HMM- 7495

HMM-7486

HMM-7481

HMM-7480

HMM-7478

14.

44

Excluded trom automalic

downgrading and

declassiller!

---

