104-10183-10106)

come 7 min q wy
wet \ SECRET :

CRYPTO SECURITY DCES NOT AFFLY. HAY DLE AS SECRET CORRES.

DATE: 23 AUG 61 FRECEDENCE:
TO : MEXI ' INFO: ye,

CITE: pig

FOR SCOTT FROM DULLES ef di)
Ake) at

REF: MEXI 8667

1. YOUR REF MOST ENCOURAGING. IT HAS BEEN Cee Ue DISCUSSED
WITH STATE AT DESK LEVEL AND TODAY I HAD AN OPPORTUNITY TO SHOW
COPY TO PRESIDENT KENNEDY AND TO IMPRESS HIM WITH THE OPPORTUNITY

WHICH I FELT THIS AFFORDED. 1 TOLD HIM STATE COGNIZANT OF MATTER.

___jAND
THAT ALL OUR ACTIONS CONNECTION THEREWITH FULLY COORDINATED WITH

Pla
AMBASSADOR. I-POINTED OUT THAT __bw NOT TRUST ALL a

five esnssnnnennn >
ae _anp HENCE DESIRED COVERT ROUTES FOR CERTAIN

—
2. 1 DESCRIBED NATURE OF OUR RELATIONS WITH)

TYPES OF ACTION AND PLANNING.

3, PRESIDENT KENNEDY MENTIONED CRITICAL PROBLEM IN CONNECTION

WITH U.N, VOTE ON ADMISSION COMMUNIST CHINA AND I BELIEVE HE WOULD

BE MOST INTERESTED TO KNOW WHETHER ANY LIKELIHOOD, |

SOURCE, EVAL, DIST,

RELEASED eeaesieseseeeeeeeeecaeeee
ORIG OFF: COORD OFF: RELEASING OFF: fe

TOD:
DIST: SUBJ FILE

Tes

CHRONO :
If IS FORBIDDEN TO COPY OR REPRODUCE THIS MESSAGE :
SECRET
CIALAS RO G3JECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION ANDIOR
RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

is 2 eg

Dur


‘i SECRET
CRYPTO SECURITY DOES NOT AFFLY. EAiDLE AS SiCRET CORRES. .
DATE: : PRECEDENCE:
TO 3 INFO:
CITE: PAGE TWO :

COULD IN SOME WAY BE HELPFUL IN THIS SITUATION OR WHETHER IT BETTER
TRY OUT THIS CHANNEL FIRST IN SOME WAY WHICH MIGHT POSE LESSER

DIFFICULTIES FOR HIM.

4. SUGGEST YOU DISCUSS FOREGOING WITH AMBASSADOR TELLING HIM
I HAVE NOT YET PERSONALLY TAKEN ‘UP THIS PARTICULAR IDEA WITH
SECRETARY OF STATE AND WOULD PREFER TO GET YOUR JOINT VIEWS

BEFORE DOING SO AS WE HAVE THE TIME FOR THIS. 1 FEEL PERSONALLY

HOWEVER THAT WE SHOULD MAKE SOME EARLY EFFORT TO FOLLOW UP ON

A ae lorres|anp TEST OUT ITS POSSIBILITIES.

5. KINDLY LET ME HAVE YOUR JOINT VIEWS AS BASIS

FOR DISCUSSION

WITH STATE.

EVAL, DIST.

SOURCE.

RELEASES
_—_—_——_ sisssuise

ORIG OFF: COORD OFF: ——

IT IS-FORBIDDEN TO CCFY CR REPRODUCE THIS MESSAGE
SECRET

Dif
