# 104-10171-10207

## Page 1

104-10171-10207

RETURNTO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

I1 ARgABE 1960

MEMORANDUM FOR THE ALCOND

05

05

SUBJECT: Meeting wich

home, late

alernoon el lo Anguel.

0.5

wald he had recently returned trus a ien day viole to Mexico

Cley and

adriatied mil foreign Mlalater Maniel jello.

lello wald that

Monico wU! be lo a very dilllelt position it the coming Ons mietlag That

although Merto could eske a atrong and agalose Cuba le will not do so.

The Mexico would only do so far so to say thas colldarlty in the lestern

Hamlaphere la essenilal that the countries la Latin "xerca should be aware

ol thin Commusist

tos thas intervention lo a serlous dauger and that the

CAS take wantever netion 18 can when

from Intervening la the allalro a another.

necsonary la order to aroldold tell!

mald he then sold tello 05

that Caba could not be overlooked as 1t was

serlous problem.

Tallo countered

by maying that the Cuban sitanton and Domiolcan question ahould not be coulused

In the over-all panorama: Forthor, that the buaineon Intereats of the United

State in Cuba wore not a proper nialler of diacuaston at the ViS but that thia

problem ahould bo precented before the laurentional Court al l be Hague as

the OAS le not det up to handle auch problems. Iollo said that le would be a

mionho lor the Unled States do relar to the Caracan resolutlos on Communlam

in tho O. S. Jollo sald that the situation la Menico has changed so much

racemly that be himsell la la annges because be la considered as too much of

* middle althe ronder, and la looking for as assigiment as an 1mbassador

abroad so he cau lenve toe cousity.

haid that bio imprensions of 05

Mexico on saln trip were that la the last forty-lve daya Luper Marcos Das lous

conelderable ground and that General Lasaro Cardenso la getting vronger and

If the pread continued, intaro Cardenas vill in a short time emerge as the

•trong one in Menico,

del Carritold aín previous do jeaving for san t'rancleco ibat regentine da

warching Cuba only in on auch no the Cuban diluntion allecto Argerina

because of the presence in Cuba of certain vell knore terustoras and also

•Che Guavasa. I+! Carrll added that the general over-all Cubas problem

Is vlewed by argentina with the some coolnees which the United states deals

with the problem of Antarcica.

G/BR

---

## Page 2

bowed me a leller postmarked Monte Carlo and willlen

by d'edro

In the letter Entrado sold that l'eron ls the only one al

the Perorlots leadere who opposes cbe Cabana.

However, alace he la out

numbered be'hao agreed lo ally bimsell with Castro, Earcda suld that 8bis

Informallon came from Forfirto kubiross who he had deen recently in Monte

Carlo at the resti

sarant 21 Plrata and Hublross said that ho bad been working on Perou

to make thie allance.

subtross sald thit the apparent disgreement between

Trujillo and Castro in only a lacade. That aclually Trajillo and Castro lave

Joined together In a cocret alltance which has bees forged by ibelt mutual hate

for Betancourt and because both feel that the Unlied Stales as aod may destroy

born of them. Kabtroos anid that after the U,S meeting there will be a nalted

(rons of Hall, Domiatcan Nepublie, and Cable

1o At thio polse

ald he wlabad to give me some sdvlce.. That

being, that under no cireumnances should leaders of the FAD establich them-

volvee in Mertco Clty. That he had hard information lo the affect that if

Varonn et al do come to Menico boy will be under constant esrveillance and

al lhe proper ilme. Cardenan mill alve the mori to have them arrested: they

will Do Jalled, their pline enposed. and the EKD 1o Merico »1I be destroyed.

05

3.

atl the Cuban Intelligance service In Hashlagton t Vely

active.

It hao a great deal of money and oparaleo ln Washtogson undei the

directlos of Enrique Rodriguen Loeched, Secretary of lie Cuban Embasay in

Hashingloa;. and Commander Jose Moleon, Cabas Military Attache. This led

Bo voluatenr the naise of the porson uboro he sald vas la charge ol

Varlean intelligence In Washington. He said ii la Magi. Plo Lagal, who le

knows sa the auditor for the apoatolle delegation and who has served several

years in Lalls merica.

b. l wondered wart alterior motire, 1l any.

nd la soblui to see

me do urgently to pasi on the above, and trted lo do

a little probing. da far

an 1 could ons. M he had an ulterior molive, li was a soggestlon be made that

she appropriate Cuban entles do more brondcasting and give more pabllelly

lo the wrongs of tho Cantro regime. I anted hin bow this could be done. and

he said that one way lt could be done van by uring his sewspaper

708

ke raid this nt present be sonds anywhere from four hundred lo

wenty-five hundred coples of the newepaper dally lo Harand, depending upon

the partieular pablication and that he could start havlog editorials published

-alch cove be anal pral be Chen a bich would so badly cans the

Caban Goveruran to pratíbit she entry of 1b

08

Jould otere broadcasting from Salam! Into Caba and day that these

Troidcasts were being payed fur by prominent Cuban entles..

---

## Page 3

NO ClASSIfICSTION

EVIDENT ON ThIS

DocumenT. I ym süre

IT ISfWIS. I PUTIT

IS SECRET IN INDEX

RECORD, for oriy. Clss!

Affials

onolisinat o

mAQ

OK 61

---

## Page 4

14-00000

nald he way leaving for New York the morning of ll Augue!..

Baon 8o to MilamTand retarn Salurday. ln Miami he could be reacbed al

P Lasa

Jor TUmeddl

Tagulere also said shas he boped to be la

Conta Rica daring the OAS conferenco.

D& COMMENT: la my dealings wishl

lover the past two years and

To which go back much longer, to the bent ol my linowledge be har

always played an honese dame with us.

Slaco he has menerous, well-placed

contact la Latin American SPlomatic clycles," thia. it wald be lo ou

beneflt to have

pait: la touch it

Ill he goes lo Sun Jose

Le very close to Pege riguere. Ilgusres

Lo and le could not surprise me l he has not already

ILS la vow of this, and the fact that

prow

name be given to

d Longer.

I recommended to Colo Klag shar

Kodolph E. Gome

Deputy Chief

Westero Hemlaphere Division

€€:

Dr

Calla

Mr. Calages

{19/BR.

---

