# 104-10172-10001

## Page 1

104-10172-10001

16-7

d.

(2)

Ду гору 80: (hos] (2)

Finaliti

fraisy 80:

1..

r..

Source Cryptonya: Soupcoa, IdentIfiod Heferences:

Source, Operational Dain, and Commenta:

suitod

2 25 10 a tige to dot arous be Carter be on to one.

¿rañaterrod lo Parma"ahore 11 could couni on lia =1d of the Alll govorrmeat",

And liat Jul10 I014l Masogora, sotive la lio Carliboan Loglon, would remato

In Mox10o dedicching himoll to tha purchese of fald and Ice clandoatine

S3artatioa to ivaromals and t'anara.

TAX-Jese roquascod donfirmalion as too above letonaatione

It so possiblo that the attachod report uny tend to confira part of thie

Informatione

Clasalfication

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

10$9 81-00

100.4=8.1%

---

## Page 2

23

SubJect: Oold Sh1mments

16-7

Place Acquired:

Parama (Sty, Parasa

Dose af information: May July 1950

Date Acgulead: June July 1550

Date of Hepare: 10 Julj 1950

it

"The plano" his ruadod for

Frark ONGFI, U.S. Cleszen, Pllot.

O. khaTliaz, VoS. Citizen, Co-palot

Stere

117.11

Mauricio CastRo,

one ciefeen, Lechani

ananandan, Passence:

T a tire blew out at Lavid, and

Tocunen Alrport was Instrumental in cozilr.

05

C1v1l aeronautics technician at

3 apare tire to them

connection with the: scerot Polica, in-baxico,5T

deserthod LURRAY fias an

sonine to be been do the filletes end te far East and noa ho suspected

of gold smuceling activities. I

sold that LURan was pilot of the plere

and be thoucht 1t mas unusual that do dest a piano is this and as expensivo to

age e to a kut se in panana, do coate rol that he man buy are on

In May

I that ho was buying orchid bulka.

on 18 june 1950 the Fallouins Information mao rocerod (praa Clull Intelligonce

Section, Panana Canal, j rogarding this natter:

"It-has-boon-roported-that Very frequerely a B-26 alrplene (N5566N -s Martin

Marauda=) nakes trime botreen Tocument and David, Roto

It is piloted by

Stero HURRay, andiat least ino other imericans rido on the plaro, sich 16lbom

soretires not at Tocuen Airport by elthor Tito, Hamodito or Tond ARIAS.

On larding at the airport it goes diroctly to a hangar, and allegedly the

onLy ones ThO ViolE it aro the ArILS brothere, PASTOR Ponce, Chief of the

airport, and one (fnu) LINARES, Chief of Custoes at Tocusen.

IT 'Hinformant stated that it was ballered et first that ate plane nas engegod

1n arca contraband, but later 16 appoared moro logical to assuro that 1e

Mas Irvalved 1n another type as sauceliri, postably druze.

Nirgillo PAVIPEZ, thera Chiof of trio Control Tomer, 13 said to have starod

shes the plane cacos and fine without raina regiaterod at the airport under

orders of POles Afresttokanager; that the plane lande without olgnalling

$ 8.88

/.

---

## Page 3

14-00000

ty sallo 0f talkiry to anyone for fin of doter:! a al Alicock Finld, but

Lal 1: 19 aspaded ty sis of a ll de a lor. intaaero close lon tlole, 10. .il

fare for lorollrio

store 1hr8 tarago air aumerent mist. she laird sialed regardire Landira

rulia min lority Bolio: Miolated, ared Mal Lhere sno son moro altermardo. ...

"irtseans abdo that the stare plane laided al truea fros karld on ll ling.

in Siis roso, on d2 lay al 6i51 pollo, on l4 lar as é:"9 pore, and on 16 Mas

n6 9iG 8az.

We shore l:forestion was allegediy giron to Austiert ARIAS by the lindater

al votertrent ari juslico, and to apparently aborte licule intorest in the

subjeci, seroly stating that the raitor shoule be darescluated to 8eo shat

Uma norito of this Information 16 appacred thas Tirrello RuIREz micht have

bees the sourco, since he was furod fros his pos: st Jocuren Airport and was

sled shout it It nas ascertainal that the iriormation containod.

a0(20r9) paragran, le mich fires is centioned, rus reported by RAlIhEZ bu

tho

geor lidorsation enta fron other Ciril Intalli esce sources

-O5 in the fans ancestioned at ous,

Jadvised that she coove-plain art Stero LURRAY had rem

turaid to Fantag-and that to lirister of Goverrora dad ordered that the plane

Die cissertled and searchod, but he could rot ascertain the basis for the soarobo

Tead talked to tho l'anagor of the dirport, Ziroal PASTOR Porce, and with

TOaT PIiS, Director Gonoral of Cir1l deronautics, an a rapher of Prodident

Ariss, nao lalicated

that thoy wore arare af the li-ister of Goverrent's order

tut did not know what was bohind it. Both felt t'at 1t mas an astrono reasure,

which stoald not be carried out.

50 Ca 8 July 1950 NS. MUHRAY called at the Entassy to obtaln assistance lis

securirg tre relaaso

of his plane.

Briefly ho sraiod that be had dopartod

Eras lexico City Vla Wanazua and arrivod at lOcureR 8i ?220 palso & Julyo HiB

pasapart reflected tbo followings

fices Steven I. Murray

Fassport do.8

102%

Issuida l'antle, Lucoabor 2, 1946.

Ranamed! danila, Doconter 27, 1948

Expiress Decoater 1, 1950

He furaiebod the following additional Informations

Are of Planas

Convurtod D-26

Doso Deglotrys N S546 N

Pilos and Ormori Stavon To Murray

Cogliots Frani Oorcol, UoSo citizon

(Fl66 Engiroers

Cristobal Lartinos,

pasiport), passençor froa loxico City to Tocumea

Destination:

Browavillo, Toxes

Purpose of Ir1p8 Businosa

8. 1.

---

## Page 4

He statod that he was in the export deport busiress and chas to deale la goldo

He said that ho had casa to fanars to sed'a man dy 239 sara as Sis, 8 euld

dealer froa Buonos Alrea, about ¿old shipperta....::.. :

Ou 8 July, L'iristor of Goversont Alínedo Minisi reported to attor to

ito U.So A-bassador

statles that prior to arrivin; la iana she pisse darl

beon sigraled, that' all was not well at the airport and sit, the crew had

jettisoned cargo prior to arrival;: (a cheek with lio dir force authoritios

doos not confirm that ary such ressage was sunt and dullar donies fat ag

thing sea jottisonedo Ho Irsistod that ho mas caris lo Parama to discusa the

do so austre but that no hed to carto no kirie so a lal to lies ador

that Pastat fosso had boon sing as lead of the airse inged

05

Elnod to bump off Toni irIli.

Bosh NUdLY and tira lose clalaud tat toni

So tho l'extenn/refurred to,ucristant Menrad ari o loricer, connio, /.

are bolieved to bo identical.

Sis his toon idonitied as sorrarioris, & gold

doalor, uho oporatoo in Buenos Arco ani Mortaridese

Civil Intelligence Sets

tson has-advicad that sis misstajire with fori Alas und theinüs hid departeda

fron Panana hastily.

Cis-aluo-aavieod. at Presiden: Allis de first-had ciron

ordere for the dinaisaal of both his naphor,

Toni diris, and PASIC? Ponce, but

1t mus lator agreed that Toni ARIAS would not do firedito avoid a publie seandle

Involvag the Prosident's Luntlye

dis issed

(Ino present atatus a tha mattor 1s that the plana bas been searched with

nogative resulta,

that the plane is still boire held by the Faresanion authori.

ties and that "UAY and othors are endeavorira by every meera posablo to

socure the reloace of the plara. To husd al the socin Airport, PASTUR Ponce,

3a8 beon disasted and Tori ARIAS, the Prostione'a fanter, m1ll probably b

Monod to withdran from hia position gracefully.

10

Distributions

Hash

Lang

33

(2)

71100

(2)

X's rage!

---

