104-10193-104166}.

fie 7

MATERTAL REVIEBEDP AT CIA HEADQUARTERS BY

os ae Date ab ZS.

INCLUSIVE DATES:
CUSTODIAL ‘UNI T/LOCAT

DELETIONS, IF ANY:

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE






(were pa
ELE EMO a October 1944 >

3
“


® Eeeeen!
Wert Gercary Helgi Rip NO: Bago
6 bat, oF INFO. Gotcner 1954

Witnds wal of Flenish Social
People's: Mcvansnt five Spocial
» Congress’ of BuropeanLiatéon Center,

‘PLACE aoe be ,
oo

3 November 1954 i ROFERLNCES:

1 7 Maher 9f tho mish Scoial Peale! Mesnte Soolele ¥
ing) led: fy the Howson! syenkor Os oot ee aoa tees
srs ecronaes +35) pat oo ee iol congress "Baron Liaieca
Ne ‘Verbitr restolla = 3) held at Buiotigan,,oocr :
eee " Bhusaslo, end Ootobar 1955. 8 ccngresa wosdissolved by the Belrian police.
F; : (andthar: segtion of: the congress vas hold in nitetk aad wae sot diaberted
T+. bycthe polios.)> At this: Belgian dozgracs, 9, 4. tgandran of Lansama,
y lester of the £V3, val asked to ocmuct 02 tho decisions reschod ct thy”
: “Rong end Falnbe ‘congrésste, Mhon ho revealed that bo hed no infornaticn
on Sie abject, be wes soousad ty manbora of the Flaxish Gotted
of trying to split tp ths nationalist foress of Buropo. Tho Vientch Ciloe
green, sonittarsd vod by Aeasivnse position, aft the congresa before 1% vas
their ropresontative Lochs exly authority te discus with
ropes tnt evenrat, (Europeetoobs Costat Brut =27) 2
itt Ereup. Kooks, rod that tia Lid
Ret getted ia all cipoots, that tho BVS had waolear politicel gvalay
and that 1to leadare did not comand confidanoae ~

SOURCE. SOURCE EVALUATION, SPPRUSAL OF CONTENT Weli-inCormed Gorman Bightist i
i dapieloal of Content’ i

“wale oF sources As Coreheaty Aden U1 Ves Babahis Ci Pty Reet Di Ka Vanity BS Bs Sia Detect
or Beaenaty |,

ef Doubts! Koocny ot Loraty. Regardinm ef Thar Cempecsaonh Fy Retcbisty Cumnct be dudend (Agriad to Usind or
APPQAIGAL OF CONTENT: & Coctianed by Otter becwantns end Batatts Gocrend. fi Pubehiy Tra, a poudty ta @ Pr compe
Feta @ Canmot bo Jet’ Domenacont Berd on a3 Ortiser Documact ue

UATE OF REPORT, 24 itsweiber 1984 ° |

up

