# 104-10063-10424

## Page 1

104-10063-10424

70

INFO.

FROM

DISPATCH

CUASSFICGION

SECRET

SUBJECT

Chief EA China Operations

Chiel, WOUSE/ SO; Chief,

• EUR

PROCESSING ACTION

MARKED FOR INDEXING:

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED DESK

CAN JUDGE INDEXING

MICROFILM

TAPPER/CU HAROVE) - Contacts with PRC Officials in Canade

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

Action: FYI

Reference:

21521, 9 May 1973

The attached from (FiABOVE, copies of walch were

passed to LaRGo

concern contacts batween persons re

siding In the United States and nembers of the People's

Republic of China Mission In Ottava.

the individuals uno fell into the categories

cited in 0C01 7980 were lorarded via reference.

3o: Becanse of the delicate source of this infor

mation, FHABOVE request that no action be taken shich

could jeopardize the security

Theedore D. HOLIHAd

A&tadonent:

Blind Menos

Distributions

Orig &

: M/= G/EX/CO att bw

R. - C/WHuss/SO att b/w

2 = C/BUR att bow

8881

CROSS REFERENCE TO

DISPATCH SYMBOL ANO AMATE

OCAA-17705

1 Ax 192

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECRET

ATTACHMENT TO: -OCOA-17705

May 3, 1973

A reliable source has advised that on

April 19, 1973 Mr. Dean SAUNDERS and Mr. SHEN, Shing-

Ping, both of Oklahoma, advised that they would visit

commercial representatives of the People's Republic of

China (P.R.C.) Embassy in Ottawa on April 26.

According

to source, the embassy representatives were interested

in petroleum coke of Canoco (ph) Co. in Texas and

telephone equipment and technology of the Company that

SHEN is employed with.

Source learned that SHEN would

bring the desired information to the Embassy.

2=

Source later learned that SHEN and SAUNDERS

arrived in Ottawa on April 25 and arranged to visit the

Embassy on April 26. According to source, shal had

brought some material for the imbassy officials perusal,

however, Star would have to return same.

Source stated that on April 27, SEEN and an

Embassy official discussed the Western Electronic Co.,

U:Sod. (place unknown) which is interested in doing

business with the P.R.C. Source advised that SHEN had

been requested by the Embassy official to prepare

information on the comparison of products, quantities,

etc.

Please su COcaT, 17676,24 April 1973

SECRET

---

## Page 3

14-00900

26 Apríl 73

SECRET

- would visit the Imbassy on 4 May 73 to discuss a

visa.

Source learned that HERSHEY had indicated

to babassy Officials that he had been born in

the R.C. and that he was a good triend oi the

Chinese people..

- Dudley i. TOINE,

Professor Physics, Anhurst, Mass.

visa enquiry

- Vir: Harrison FORDIAN, New York, N.Y.

had

been advised that permission had been received

for his daughter to visit the ?.R.C.

- Jan BARRIS of the U.S:-China Cormittee New York

would forward to the Embassy, the list of names

for the second delegation to visit the P.R.C.

in June 1973:

- Dr. (nu.) SCHAFFER of California State College,

Northriage, California

enquiry regarding a delegation's visit to the

P.R.C.

- Harshal MAPLAN, New School of Social Research, wew

York: had visas

granted for hinseli and his wife to

visit the P.R.C.

KAFIA would be visiting Frank

COE and Solonan ADLER presumably in the P.a.C.

KAPLAN had discussed his schedule with COE and

.COE

would be away at the end of lay 1973 and ADLER

would be there for several months.

KAPLAIT there-

fore wished to visit the ?.R.C. in. September, 1973.

- Source learned that Slaine BROIN Of Oakland,

California had received a letter from WU Chu

(Attache of P.R.C. Enbassy) and that BROIN iad

replied.

---

