04t0113-10075

FBT ORDER

Tithe Grade ‘Salary

26 March 1952

y LUCKER EB. COEETR BAJOR Ga) 322769
4° Office or Branch + -Officlal Station 7-20 *
[ (Feansront, orgmany) '5~
You are hereby authorized to travel and incur necessary expenses in accorda with 7

Agency Travel Regulatior

the following limitations:

+ subj

(a) Maximum Living and Quarters Allowance authorized in accordance with S.G. C. A. R.

Howe Leave and Temporary Doty

Purpose:

Itinerary and jal Provisions: zeae
inerary and Special Provisi 15-30

Prunkfurty Ge te Gerleruhs, Ce for TUT of approxima days; to
erie te Goraend) te Gartervbes cere econdhs bho aithekan Eo
for TITY of approxima’ go te ‘leruhe, OCernany for of approxisatsly
€ daze, end return &© pSorory'cteey-) ere

5-20

Mey. per diem while in trevel and TOY status authorized 4n accordance with Militery
deguiations. .

hependent wife and thres children (aged 14,23, anf 25 monthe) euthorived te travel.
Unueesepanied bagenge authorized. i:

Date effective: Terminating Approximately:

FA

‘Mode of Travel:
[= JTcommon Carrier [J covernment Transpo
Airplane [J airotane
Vessel vial
+ [Bi] Privately Owned Automobile [J Motor Vehicle

*Allowance for privately owned automobile as follows:

(2) 27 cents per mile, not to exceed cost by common carrier.
(bd cents per mile, as being more advantageous to the Government.

The change of official station indicated Is effected in the interest of the Government and not for your personal convenience,

In connection with change of station, you are authorized to transport your immediate family, your household goods, personal
effects and automobile, subject to weight limits, restrictions and provisions as set forth inGAI No #11.

Travel to first post of duty abroad, including expenses of transportation of immediate family, household goods, personal ef-
fects and automobile, is authorized.

Dependents to travel with employee. «

Dependents to travel within one year of employee.
Yeodie bie aus

Mulibtiy Gad? TEegube ees Fo I

Advance of Funds: $.

FORM NO. 33.27 i U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1950 - 906z19
[aur isap’ 334

Oooo Oo 0)0w

Shy
