1o4-10787-10001

OPA NS Rae ED

i
é
4

pine TUTE Nun VOLE: KPFACTOR } KD ABSIMTH

—( piem eT io LILN2Z12)
al

Base Ho.

INCLUSIVE “DAT:

i ‘qUSTODTAL usit/iocatton: -_£ A {DD G2

not: _32AB 2b
DELETIONS. UF ANY?
RITHATURE OF

HG
(PRINT NAME AVEEWING OFFICIAL

MOVED FRO THIS F

: UXT NOTISaIT Atoms
10a (8/¥L-9-08) QIUATTY/ALataty

HINISAVON/¥oLoVaaX



Tat 2593

CONF IDEN
NOTIC
an |

THIS' FELE HAS BEEN PROCESSED AND RETIRED. ~ Do NOT

ADD. ANY DOCUMENTS TO THIS FOLDER. ” FORWARD CS

DOCUMENTS THAT SHOULD ‘BE INCLUDED IN THIS FOLDER

TO RID/RPU GE-58 .

NOTICE

CONFIDENTIAL

aa



—
CLASSIFIED _ MESSAGE

Gog wejooyucs
(DATE: 1 24) FEBRUARY: 58.
eek 22g
» TO -#DIRECTOR' ©
LROM: SMEXICO CITY

8

_ DIR “NO i i OTE MeEXI 19129

NORTH AMERICAN DRIVING 57 FORD, LICENSE HP 9259 TEXAS 57
ENTERED SOV ENB 11 FEB REMAINED HALF HOUR. REQUEST SOLUTION
LICENSE. SOURCE: LILYRIC, NO DISSEM.

a

ep -b-2u/e END.OF MESSAGE
af

oy}

|

REPRODUCTION §Y OTHER THAN T: ISSUING OFFICE 1S PROHIBITED. Copy Ne.



wa: ATR —_— :

~{ peoRel

CLASSIFICATION

TO + Ghief, Wi. Division «

From” :' Chief of Station, siexieo City
supséct: cenéac— LILYRIC = Sisinisanrtan
: sécunc— License Plate Solution

1.- on-S Novenber 1957 at 1110 hours: two women,
California 1998 license plate number BYd-O19, entere
remained approximately 5 minutes.

2. Attached are two copies of three shotograri
autonobile, 2 views of the'wonen). - The photographs
location and if siown outside KUBARK cll the” bacieroi

3... Tt ds requested thut this plete be solved and tho solution, together with

available traces, be sent to this Station,

4, The information in paragraph 1 is being dis
to the ODEWVY representative with a request for any
‘their local offices

¢ RBR/eps

Attachments: 3
5 December 1957
Distribution:

4 - Has w/atts
3 - Files

CLASSIFICATION

aegis 51-28 A

sspatci NO.

y2%e=8888

pate: 6 Deconber 1957

driving a late model: Buick,
d the Soviet Embassy and

og (1 front view of the
were made from a clandestine
und should be deleted.

seminsted locally by memorandum
tnfornation available from

“$o-G- 25/6



ACNT TO
pe -$863

ATTAG:

iit Nee


SECRET

(Mon Filled Iny

“CASE FILE REQUEST

18 RI/ANALYSIS SECTION

FRO

Tesetme

UN/TIT Mexico,

Project LIPSTICK/IILYRIC

[fevers ove

To Cowutntar (inelude briel description of file ov project)

Physical surveillance opsrating baco across street from LIMERICK targst

Original of documents entitled LIPSTICK/LTIViTC to be placed in
$0-6-25/3 with carbon copy for 50~4~25/8

‘3. Fon RF Use OMY

. Tnoonse!

wis aeques) rie
DESTINE scavicEs.

3 Tmt RECORDS REQUIREMENTS OF CLAN

SUGNATURE RI/ANALY SIS

Giente (For Chiel, BE)

TrPECTIVE OATE

fou noe cane
vave se 842 cours

8

JUL 1957

Ri COPY

Be case THTke nuwoee

go
SECRET

a

ES

oo


400000,

-  eTHen AGENCY VOL



Ni lier

Peo eee

i

yp! 2593

CONFIDENTIAL i nena

NOTICE

\
‘TIRED, 0.NOT

THIS FILE HAS BEEN PROCESSED AND RE’

ADD_ANY DOCUMENTS 70, THIS FOLDER. FORWARD CS
ILDER.

DOCUMENTS THAT SHOULD. BE INCLUDED IN THIS FO!

TO RID/RPU GE-58.

NOTICE

CONFIDENTIAL

ea



SP.

COSTTCATS

| 8BCR ge

ATCH [

action tQUiniD - RAHI

‘Agtion Required: FIL. ;
References 1 A. ecto Ciry 1998, 5 July 1967
B. 3OU-32922, 29: Angast 1967

hare vera no RI or Division traces on Manuel ALCOLA.

Distribution:
Orig & 2 ~ COS, Kaxteo City

aT RT wD WR
mes - 5562
TSSTOTON

SBCREP



Chief of Station, Hoxtec city x

Chief, ii Divioton : fan a
REDCOAT/‘Traces' cn Vinitors’ to the soviet zbascy ‘

SoS aT ee ee ene meme ge

Heferance |," mieit-32380, 28 due 196T a
£ a * pore vere no: aorttnaat ident triable ihedquirters tice | OB, &
f “ \ Gtther iistert P. rEiés or iniutp raiel Fins. = ;
| :
: . .
|
i
| : ;
:
‘ 3
: Distribution:
| Grig & 1 - COS, Hexteo' City A
q i
‘ ;
i 3
! ! ‘
H : i
i
| - ‘
i £5 Wi
: UL iggy ;
i :
BRS - 5830 1d July 1967 i
: 4
:
i :
| RE WL | J. Zexence gue +8187
Chrono ae i
+9 Wt $867
|
H
|
H ;
t
i
i c/ua/. VW. J. Kaufuan


SECRET FeO FOREACH. BSS.

+o JUL BOP
Attention! Mr. 8. J- Popich : fe
eunmce 1 cWiniter 00 the Soviet Ribasay, Mexico City.
1. A sensitive, reliable source d-thet on 16 May. 1967 én
man, circa 60 years ald, thin, with gray bair ani wearing

2. [nvestigution revealed thet these plates vere assigned to a 1962
Femtiac Coupe’ ovned by Ben'C. DSLAO of 315 Mockingbird Lane, South
Pagstéma, Californias The driver's license xeflected that DSLAO was torn
29°April 1903 (age 59). He‘ te 5, feet 1l.inches tall, weighs 175 pounds,
hao block, hair end broun yes. . :

Credit vas. satiafactorys criminal and subversive checks vere negative.
b. Share was no informstion on DELAO.in the files af this Offices.

5» Your Buremn’s representative in Nexico City has been provided
with the isformstion contained in pamgraph 1 along with a ost of photos.

Er]
ee

&S copy

uy DiSSEM

SECRET



SECRET NO FORZIEN DISC"

SECRET HO FORESH DISSEM


PROSECT:
LIAISON:

S°°RET NO FOREIGN DISSE ~

rextC0 srev-335, UT May 1981
i9PA-32115,°2 June-1967 =

‘LILYRIC

Hone

301-316/03093-67
wy Y| Vax
3 suly 1967

“Distribution:
orig.& 1 = Addressee

L + RI (50-6-74/6)
2 - CI/LIA
1 ~ CI/RSA
L = i/L/r3Xt
. ~ si/1/chrone
= ai/1/| (hola)
7 - MYPO/S

Coordinated with:
sx/0/ ail ee

a Pe

ME ST ay

we

SECREr to 03 1iGN DisstH.

SPSS SEPSSES APSE? EPO EE


4 UiSSths :

iO FDR

a
yi

“SECRET



“ pastc! :

“EGRET NO FORECH Ds

}PDM-32259, 15 June 1961

plosuor? Linnie
LIAESoN: ‘None!
¢sc1-316/03105-67
a
5 duly WET

Distribution:
Orig & 1 - Atdressee
L = at (50-6-74/6)

Coordinated with:

wi/securtty__

SbyOfW
UW tq
ST 3
BHD pis
wee? i]

SECRET WO FORICN BISSEM



E
i

Wistee

}
i
i
!

Chief, i Diviaton
mane

H “2 Visitor to the Sovier Betaesy in Mexico City = oan :

i stron aoest “eA

Aetion Foquired: FIT peli
eferences. yGaT00 CHTT-2455, 47 my
rere 32M; 2 Sune 1967:

I96T

tee Coupe.” (The: dive:

the ‘sano ‘address was bot 2) Anti) 1903 (age.
wan, woighs.175, pounds, “ns black hair and brovn eyes.: On 1 June 1067

‘files of the Retafl Merchants \Credit Association of Loo Angeles were
gearched in the name ‘of Den C. D=LAO and revealed a file which possibly
might be identical. vith Subject showing thit DELAO and his wife, hettis,
have-been known to them since March-1052. His age vas given a9 32.in
1958 (oie), and their mont recentaddress waa given as 2009 douth Vermont
Aveme, Los Angeles, in-1962,. Prior restdancé vas at 4211 Union Pacific
Aveme, Los Angales, in March 1952, for 14 years. le is originally froa
las Cruces, ley Héxico. In August 1951 the Lockheed Aircraft Comsany,
Turbank, California, waa his exjloyer. ‘This waa verified in March 1952.
Crelit was satiafactory; criminal and subveretve checks vere negative.

i 7 2. There vere no leadquarters traces’ on Subject. LWEPCO Headquarters
3 is being notified and being provided with a set of the photographs.

Distribution:
H Orig & 1 = COS, Nexico City

Sp,
Gp.

crag aireanece FO

OSPATON FER Aw KINSER

orice
wna

wren uve

orseeswan 1 cure

eC hicparcu

ura 100

sreass | .
Eos : pp eee



suber Cs anorican Visitor to ene Soviet mbassy

2. _Reforence is sade to our aenorandum #12 844, dated
21 dune 1967, i] :

2. Attached are photographs of tho Amorican looking
young man who visited the Soviet Babassy in Mexico City on
17 June 1967. 0 <

3...Thia young man wae driving a 1967 Volkswagen bus
with orange-on-black California license plates TUZ-945,
‘This office. would appreciate receiving any information your
office might furnish regarding the ownership of tho car.

011,882

THIS INFORMATION 18 FROM A CONVIDENTIAL SOURCE, XP MUBT HUT
BE DISSEMINATED IN WHOLE OR IN PART OUTSIDE YOUR OFFICE
WITHOUT PRIOR APPROVAL OF THE ORIGINATING OFVICE Il HEXICO

crry.
Attachment; Photographs

G.H,FARMILANT: vgp :
Distribution; so)
Orig - Addressee w/att. Ake bunsdaooe ctl

L = 50-2-4/A w/o/att.

1 = 50«8-10/11 w/att. (give to
1 - Memo Chrono w/o/att.

4l-s" Wash Pouch w/att. (give to

Sener Sa geeeees

Sneser eee ce qer "Ses





Casares

wei, Over. OS
cLassivi vo rine no, 2202 Try CCLASSIF FED HE:

wnee TOPE
~aiice, a8

DIRECTOR : ‘
neocopt : : SduerwO5O7E ©
Le LELYREC REPORTS AVERICAN LOUKLNG MAN VISITED SOVIET
aNBASSY 3 JULY 1967 FROW 192S TC 1052 HOURS. SUBJECT WAS
DRIVING 1965 HITE VALIANT WITH tsS7 TEXAS PLATES. NUK 345,
2. INFORMING LOCAL LNEGO AND ASKING LNERGO RESOLVE
Cah OWNERSHIP.

SECRET

Br

SO-8 PY
LILLE

ye
gw seb 7



A.gansitive, rolioble source reported thot on 26 April
1967 three unidentified won uho oppoared to-bo Agericano vere
cen ents ‘the Soviet Bstesay in Mexico City. Thay vore

- 5 plates CIELO.

2. Purther investigtios rovealed that these plates wore
eesigned too 1967 ‘two-door Musteng omed by Antonio

ECHEGARAY Cs, Jr., of {1819 Borth-Stomton, Apartcent A, El Faso,
Teme.

3: fhe coly informtion ovailable {h the files of this
Office ore two Bursou reports on Antanio | ARAY (eka
ECHEOARAY, dated 28 and 30 July 1952). Our Subjoct 1a probably
not ddenticd) vith yoer Subject} hovever, he could be the son
vho reportedly’ traveled with SCHEEGARAY end his wife in 1952
and was'et that time “young bay.”

3. Your Buresu’s representative in Mexico City has bean
with the informtion couteinesd in yaregroph one along

with o est of the photas.

5. Thin taforestion 1s mda aveilable to your Buresu with
the understanding that. {t will receive no further dissesinstion
without prior approval fron this Office.

<—retes 3)

CSC1~316/02654-67 ¢S copy
SECRET, NO FOPEIGN Dissray



more} neii-sion, aay 1967

Poveer: nine aes

acid esh-op pe

2), Bia
T June 1967 2 |

Distribution:
Orig & a Addresace,
2 6-76)
2

i = CI/RRA

L = wi/l/eExr

1 - \i/1/chrono

1 = Wi/1/Jane’ (hola)
1 - wi/Po/a

|

Coordinated vith:
SB/o/wi

WH/Security|

-2-



DIRECTOR : i aes
: : 21 duns? 95119
REDCOAT °
iy :
I. LILYPIC @EPORTS ANFFICAN LOOKING Mat VISITED
SOVIET EvPassy 17 JUNE 1148) Te 1158 HOURS, ALSO TOOK PHOTOS

/

OF OUTSIDE, > vas DRIVING 1967° VOLKSUAGEN: BUS WITH ORANGE ON

WHITE CALIFOPNIA TaecS TUF-945.
a INFCR "INS LOCAL LNE®co AND ASKING LNYERGO RESOLVE

OWNEP SHIP CF cag. 7
SECRET

aT



Rein [oo ee ES
MEMORANDUM FOR: .° THE RECORD: -
° (RTS: MEMO’ WAS ‘FECEIVED N-APRIL.1968_BY.AN |
AS NOT FORWARDED ‘TO THE: FBI DUE TO THR

DATS. THE MEMO: WAS TYPED - 19 June 1967.

STANGER CASE.

iene 101 OSV irae.

an



et a

‘SUBSECT:

1, Ret
.8 June 1967.

g, A sensitive, roliable source repo:
“photo very closely resemb!

See a

qisitor to the Soviet pabassy ”

erence is Bade to our pemorandus #11!

SECRET |

‘yo gune_1987

br, Nathan L. Ferris, Legal atteche

810 dated |
\
rted thet san vhoso

Iea that of tho individual who visited
7 visited the Soviet Embassy

-) ‘the Soviet Embassy on 9 March 196'
gon 23 Aprit2967. He was at the Enbsassy frop 1028 to 1052 hours.

He left is a taxi.

3. Reference reported .
available on the individual ‘who visit
9 March 1967. The sinilarity
one who visited the Soviet Babassy on

elose.

4. Attached are phot

goviet Bubassy on 35 Apr:

HIS IMFORUATION 1S FRO
BE DISSEMINATED IN WHOLE

APPROVAL OF THE ORIGINATING OFFICE IN EAI

‘nll the information thie office had
\ted the Soviet Bmbassy on
potween this individual and the
25 April 1967 is vory

tographs of the men who vipited the
41 1967 for your retention.

A CONFIDENTIAL SOURCE. Av MUST KOT
OUTSIDE YOUR OFFICE WITHOUT PRIOR
CO CITY.

\e # 31832

a4

Attachment: ~ LW’ 4a?
Photos gp ser 316 loz pd -67
Diatributioa:

Original ~ Addressee,
1 = 50e2-4/A, W/O

1 = 50-8-10/11, wo
2 = Heo

chron
(i = Wash pouch, w/att.

INDEX
G Tenet)

“ToTune 1967

Lal Leal * etl

STAAGER ’

HEePnarnryseSa usar sEnSEEEEee=rest




= : aie

Croorry

SECRET
lussetD fom maces
Chicf, WH Division 2K ho notsie seaune9
Lede JOMLY QUALIFIED OLSR
Chief, SB Division . [caw su0ct 1OE RIO
a >
“chief of Station, Hexico City ascrori

porag
OREDCOAT - Unidentified Visitora to Soviet Embassy
RETIN REQUIRED. REFERENCES

REFERENCE: MEXICO CITY~1413

1. Attached are LILYRIC photographs of the unidentified
man and woman who visited the Soviet Embassy on ll May 1967.
They were seen driving a white Comet with red top with Texas

license JBV 884,

2, Also attached are copies of the memoranda sent to local

LNERGO on the Subject. :
Le
fee A ~ Lat?

‘ for/Willard C, CURTIS

Attachments:
1. Photos
2, Copies of Hemos

Distribution:
2 = CWH, w/atta., H/W
1 - csB, w/o atts, 1eo8 To 24

See ce

ari I

2 ATT : ELH /G
‘crass RiFERENCE TO ‘Giwaten Sewhoi and WOKRER Dare LEG
HMMA = 32259 15 JUNE 1967
“CLASSIFICA TCR Was FILE wUBER
S EC RET 50-8-10/11



FOR CHIEF,

ES)

Or

Wi DIVISON

ATTACHMENT 1 TO HMMA,

Sere
acca

dated.



a i “STTACIOIENT 2.TO ADM oo oo
a cans cat ioee cece develo dca 7 :

1? Bay 1967 : oe
MEXORANDUM FOR:
FROM:
SUBJECT: Unidentified Visitors to Soviet Enbassy

1. A gonsitive, reliable source has reported that on ©
11° Hay 1987 betwoon the hours of 1113 to 1126 a Hexican
looking saa and vonan visited the Boviet Bubassy.

 @, -Fhis couple vera seen arriving in a White Const with
red top with Texas licenses plates JBY 884 (1966).

3. A photograph of tho abeve individuals will be
furnished to your office when prints are available.

THIS IRVORMATIGN IS PROH A CONFIDENTIAL SOURCE, IT HUST wor
BK DISSEMINATED IN WHOLE OR IN PART OUTSIDE YOUR OFPICE
VITEOUT PRIOR APPROVAL OF THS ORIGINATING OFFICE IN MEXICO CITY.

# 11726

Distribution:
Original - Addressee 1



Uatdentitied Vieitérs to Soviet mabasey

_: 2, Reference is made to our memorandum #11726, dated 17
Hay 1967. : : ~ - 7

3. Attached are photographs of the unidentified Hexican
looking man and woman who visited the Soviet Embassy on 1] May
1967, They:were driving a white Comet with rod top, Tozas
plate JBV (1866).

3. Qur Headquarters informed us that investigation revealed
that’ these slates. were-assigned to 8 1985 Hercury Comet, two
door, owned ‘by Gaston ‘Louis SOLERES, P.O. Box 264, Laredo,

Texas. Credit Bureau and police checks of that name vere
negative. Our Headquarters files contained so information on

4, Your Headquarters has béen informed of tho conteats
of the above.

: THIS INFORMATION IS FRO! A CONFIDENTIAL SOURCE. If MUST HOT
t _ BE DISSENIAATED IN WHOLE O8 IX PART OUTSIDE YOUR OFFICE WITHOUT
PRIOR APPROVAL OF THE ORIGINATING OFFICK IN MEXICO CITY.

# 11824

Attachnent: Photos

15 June 1967



i
i

i
H
i
!

MIGROFILMED,
{gued 51967 *

40. ta.

Ae sexico CITY 1292, :2 May 1067.
“Be “HOA=31981, 11 May'1967
. : “Dede. mic’

“ple: Texas License -plates CLS3h5h vere acstgied to 4/2967 Ford”
two-door Mustang ‘owned. by Antonio l@ECHRUARAY C., Jr., of€1U18 ‘North
Stanton, “Aparteentt A, El Paso, Temp. Tove? a

2. The only information available ‘in our files’ vere two LAERGO
reports: ace :

A. One dated 23 July 1952 reported that an untested source
of unknown reliability had advised that Antonio BCHEEGARAY, ovner
of a Juarez night club in Juirez, Mexico, reportedly left that city
on 25 or 26 July 1952 for Puebla, Mexico, to attend au S-diay Lions
Club converticn. It vac ctated that SCUEBCARAY was acecayanied by
ble“vife and young: con ani that they planned to proceed to Spain
from Puebla... The cource added that Mra. BCHESGARAY vas allegedly
carrying  @idli roll of micyofilm.concealed.in the heel of her
hoe.’ "The dource vas unable to ‘furnish further inforsatioa as to
the context or origin of the microfilm or the departure date ani
mode of travel of the Subject and his fanily to Spain.

B. A 30 July 1952 report sourced to the sume individual
5 above advised that ECHEEGARAY, oka ECHECARAY, visited Spain about

Continued....

Distribution:
Orig &1- C08, Mexico City

(cabSs REFERENCE TO DSPATCN Sue ARO OWOER

estar OM = 15523

ory .
sere? L. 50-6-74/6
Chrono —_ :

orice seus: onte 2 orreres wnt

un/Security

Mel

ieee eeecy resreceaeeec nce
% orrce race oe
i of |



pee

Babject we 2:

‘photos to

Distribution:

0 Headquarters and have asked then to.atteryt to -

a year igo (ate) and'vas suopécted by. the Byaatoh Geaoral Staff of -
omuggling dru 1

or other contrabaid. “It vag eloo"indicated that
proceed %o Merida; Kaxico, snd then travel to Havana,

Guba, via Q4A.. From Bsvana ho: ‘would ‘proceéd ‘to Lisbon, . Portugal,”

Orig & 2 - COS, Mexico City

wre IOWA

BION RI
MECHA
CLASSIFICATION - FRSE NE.
TSE" Sta use previous corrian. q O
i BBCREP connmurD 2of 2

Se nn TS “



% ’ ‘Director an
+ " Federak Bureau’ ot Investigation
“Attention: Mr. J. J.- Papieh

FE 1, Deputy Dizoster for Plans
SUBINCT:( Vinitore to tho Boviet Mubasay, Mexico City
IVEORMAM es Sutinmage ae ERT
le pre apo Err ove peepee Lan anmrpt ae phar a
man ani vosinn driving @ white Comt vith red top, Texas

ooking
plata JbV-034 (1966), visited the Soviet ubasay oo 1 may 1967
between the kours of 1113-to 1126.

a Dijoittastioa sovoaled that these plates vore asgtznad
8.1965. Mereury Comst, tuo door, omned by Gaston Louls POLK,

2, 9 bo eh G4, lareto, foxes, Crodit Bureau ani police ehocks
of that naw vare negative.

3. The files of this Office contained no information oo

4. Your Bure representative in Kexico City has beon in-
Pepe Gi al aerpt gt matron rarities reared roses
to your Buresu vith the unlerstamding that it vill roceive mo

farther dissemination without pricy approval fron this Office.

C3CI~316/02h89-67

eranrr oss



SEERET 0

BASIC. : MEXICO CITY 1413, 13 May 1967

PROJUCT:  LIENPTY/LILYRIC

, LIATSOR: fone”
__-g3et-316/00899-6T

way ay|

* 26 May 1967

Distribution:
Orig & 1 « Addressee
2 = RI (50-6-74/6)

Coordinated with:

“sB/0/Wi
wn/security q
aha?
erenry rq gen
SEonel RO PE



fe istoreneo ” _sntgo CITY 1413, 3 miy 1967

“DISPATCH | ‘sense

“Caot ‘of Station, } Mexico City

cr

Te,

Ghict, wi Divistoa_- a
Pret 7
Q xsooatLASeTY/ ALINE “Visitors to the Soviet Bshosny ta) Mexico “Citi

BET RGR aCTEATACLT

Aetion Required: rm

ine wore. negative. -
“maze vive 40 Boudqunctare tence oh SoU. ee C
3. ‘Thio information is being made avatlable to ‘urn,

* Headquarters.
Z

Distribitian:
Orig & 1 - COS, Nexico City

weds

eee
xn yg aw ar PR
~ 15525, 26 May 1967
ore 2 ‘hte mae
SECRE®P 50-6-74/6
Pain ORIGINATING
c Tear Cm
RI 4167
Chrono ELA CORD ATING
corres we TES

my Seeurtty: RA she

Neve Bie,
5

pit ke aga
. RELEAS AG : puamaeed
ferret wusm poate
qa) a Y 4

1eF 53 vse ramnovs sorion.
wo.tes

=~" DISPATCH

ernesnrety

RONTBS My ohZPAN. Benet e4ert-as


Ror Meo | a
JUL > 1967

SOc. MICRO: SER.

to 2 Director ioeetiere ta
Federal Bureau of Investigation
Attention: Mr, 8. J. Papich

FROM 2 Deputy Director for Plans

SUBJECT: “Visitors to the Soviet Embassy, Mexico City

ls A reliab’ Sensitive source reported on 20 April
1967 that an unidentified American man -acconpanied by an
unidentified Heaicon man and a child entered the Soviet

‘Embassy in Mexico City. They were scen arriving in a 1967

brown and cream colored Ford Galaxie 500 station vagon with

U. B.. litense plates NIV 858, ‘The State was not identifiable,

but the plate bad orange nusbers against a black background.

The visit lasted about ten minutes. j-.
° +

2, investigation revealed that the orange and black

license plated (probably Caljfornin plates) NIV-858 ere
registered to Bert Salvatore DONANNO borir.30_January_1939

“or to Betty Lou BOMANNO bofn\10 February 1936 for use on a

1985 Yord station wagon. This vehicle is not registered

in California for' 1967, but wan registered in 1966 as above.
At that time the: BONANNOs were residing at 336 West llth
Street, Pittsburg, California.

3, As of January 1967, Bert BORANNO was employed by
the Mexican Olympic Committee. Previously he was employed
by the Pittsburg Unified School District as a teacher and
previously by Dow Chemical of Pittaburg. Betty was formerly
employed as an accountant/auditor by Contra Costa County at
Martines, California.

seoner no Fosse Bssete

UL

ened a TP Oe a ee


atone

SM ARES

Betty BOXANNO w

secret

4. Ap ‘of ‘February 1967 tho: residence of Bert snd
Mago Victoria 88, Mexico” City, DF.

Credit: reports 8 their names sre: fay orable and- there _
wer ino. police « or. subvereiv. records, on: thea...

8. The files ‘of thie Office contained ao “Anforsation

“ea on either of: he above-mentioned Andividuala,

‘Your Bur vy Fopresentative in Hexico city has
he contents of paragraph 1 above, and

“this inforuation is being made available to your Bureau

with the understanding that it. will receive no further
digsemination without prior approval from this Office.

C8C1-316/02374-67

18 May 1967

BASIC. ; MEXI CITY 1240, 27 April 1967
PROJECT: LILYRIC

LIAISON:

PILE : 50-6-74/6



: “er WG

CSCI-316/02374-67

718 May 1967

L174, Means
Distribution:

Orig & 1 - Addressee.
RI (50-6-74/6)
CI/LIA

CI/REA
WH/1/MEXI
WH/1/Chrono

1:- WH/1/Jane (hold)
1! = WH/PO/A

Pb ee

Coordinated with:
8B/0/WH.
WH/Sec’

o1DISSENG™



RarcoTi

S E°C R ET

: chief, we Division

chi SB Division,

REFERENCE: MEXICO CITY=1455

1, Attached are photographs, obtained through LILYRIC,
of the unidentified visitor who visited the Soviet Embassy on
16.May 1987 between the hours of 1300 and 1330 hours.

2, Also attached is a copy of the memorandum sent to

local LNENGO on the Subject.

Attachments:
A. Photos
B. Nemo

Distribution:
y2.- CWH, w/att., H/W
1 = CSB, w/o att.

er. 3l6 ee = 6) tag,

A ad Ee oe

“Hind ee
oS COPE

‘BSPATOH SUR RD NEE?

HMMA = 32115

oaTe

1 JUNE 1967

cASRaTS
SECRET

WS FILE MOUBER
$0-8-10/11


|
'

tachment to Huma: nul dp)

Unident 1

rel.

SECRET.

othe

24 may 1967

fied Visitor to Soviet, mibseay’

able soures has reported that on 16 May

between the oura of.1300 #0 1330 an unidentified maa circa 60 ~~

ate years of age, thin, -grey..hair and.wearing. glosses-visited the

Bopiet Embassy: Thie man wag driving a 1961 tan Pontiac with Cal-
Afornia license’ plates JER 824.

2. Attached are photos of this unidentified visitor.

Distribution:
Original - Addressee
1e= 50-2-4/a

1 - 50-8-10/11 with photos

_1_=.Memo Chrono

ith photos"
23 May 1967

THIS. INFORMATION $3 PROM A CONFIDENTIAL SOURCE, IT MUST WOT BS

DISSEMINATED IN WHOLE OR
APPROVAL OF THE ORIGENATI!

IN PART OUTSIDE YOUR OFFICE WITHOUT PRIOR
NG OFFICE IN MEXICO CITY.

ECRET 911,758





HCROFILME

4 UL o—ly0t-

Chier_of Station, Mexico Ct

iChict, WW Diviston

- 20 -wedCOATZVisitors to the Sovict.Fabagsy, Mexico City +” :

Tom REQUIRED “REFERERCET

wancr

Action Required: “F¥I e

Reference t. MEXICO CITY 1240, 27 April 1967 --— A 2F
“1g Orange and black ‘license plat ping
Headquarters. tobe ‘California (plates) i Doane

= registércd to: Bert: Salvatore 4 'BONANNO_ boi 0 ‘January 7

c F.10.February 199¢ for.uee =... 8°
on a- 1965 Ford: Station Wagon, This vchicle is not registered
p California’ for 1967, but Was registered, ia 1966 as-above.
At that time the "BONANNO's' were residing Riss West Lith i
sametid ‘
> "2, -U Ae of January 1967,_Rert BONANNO wos employed by
the Mexican Olyupic Committee, Previously. he was employed
by the Pittsburg Unified School District as a teacher and
previously by Dow Chemical of Pittsburg. Betty was formerly
employed as an‘nccountant/auditor by Contra Costa County
at Martinez, California.

¢°1935' or SBetty ‘Lou:!*BONANNO: borin,

Betty BONANKO wagjNaso Victoria 88, jicxico City, DF.
Credit: reports on the nanco of Bert and Betty BONANI
favorable and there are no police and subversive records

on then,

3,. As of February 1967 the residence of Bert and,
ED ore

4. There were no Headquarters traces on either individual,

5, This information is being made available to LNERGO

Headquarters.
|
see |
|
Distribution: 85 AY tos i
2 = COS, Mexico City st 18) 6. i
‘CROSS REFERERCE TO OSPATCH SYMBOL AAO HUMBER tare 7 i
2 pNDY i
03.C8RY HRUMW= 15495 18 May 1967 |
casera TF PR UME 7
i secRE’™. $0-6-74/6
ORIG'NATING
OrrICE - i, areal vest ant.
WH/1 sas A167
TORTI NO
osriet rue, one orien newt
WH/Securi y S23
spyo/wit, 525 36

ile

=_RELEASING

correct suasou

CyWH/1L

Soe SPATCH



gee RET 1728802, CITE MEXICO city 1455:
DIRECTOR a ne

REDCOAT
Le LILYRIC REPORTS YNLDENT

p 60 YRS OLD, :
THIS, GREY HAIR AND WEARIBC GLASSES, VISITED SOVIET EMBASSY

FROM 1300 TO 433G HOURS 16 MAY 1967

j TaN PONTIAC WI
. i 2.:. REPORTIN

LF1eD MAN CIRCH

HE WAS DRIVING 1961

TH CALIFORNIA LICENSE PLATES JER 824.

jg TO Local LNERGOs
sECRET Reet
ar



Ay NEXICO. CHTY-1300, 2 May 1967 a

B. “TEREDTOR-00829, 11 Nay 1987 = :

oe

1. Attached are photos, obtnined-throush LILYRIC, of a
Negro male,, later identified through LIFNGRACS surveillance,
as being baseman - the Hotel Marsil under the name

* satis *SacutsoN or Sacetson

2. Also forvarded are copies of the meroranda forwarded

to local LNERGO on the subject.

for/Willant C. CURTIS: e

Attachments!
L = Photos for C/wD
1 + Coptes of Mecoranda for C/WHD

Distribution:

<2. ~ C/WHD w/atts.
1 - C/SB w/o atts. 1SC TE

Ahr

LAMY ep

EE

‘CROSS REFERENCE TO

i 15 May 1967

[wes rte aioe

Teer FE eK... mami yeapee tHE EL en. studistttessnmmrcenoees cesar,

SO



ATTACHMENT TO 10%A=31908, 15 May” 1907

, Susscets

Arr fe Qte Ham

hy

Frau

iat Zubaisy, ile wae duets
about 145 tbe., witha
visit

rises, Ieuge lever:
Monterrey he dos not

3. Aphotascagn of &
oftica when priata

i
i

Distribution: Ortgin:

211,654 .

CS-COPY.
Si 4Gs



4 Unidentified Visitor to the Soviet Rabassy

1. Reference 10 éade to cur escornntin £12694 on the
same subject, dated 3 May 1967.

2. Attached are photographs of the Negro mle, identified
as doing registered at the Hotel Kargil umler tho. naze Antan
dachison or Inchison, who entered the “oviet Osbassy on 23

April, 1967,

‘THIS TMVORMATION IS PROM A CONPIDAITIAL SOURCE, Ir MUST NOT EE
DISSEAMMATED IN WHOLE OR IN PART QUTSIDZ YOUR OFFICE WITHOUT
PRIOR APPROVAL OF THE ORDOINATING OPFICE IN MEXICO CITY.

Original ~ Addressee A723
l= 50-2-4/a \ .

1 - 50-8-10/12

W- Wash Pouch

1 - RI Chrono



ioNA-31998, 15 May 1967

ATTACHMENT TO:

Tor

Chit /WaD

Chief of Station, Mexico City

FROM


It veo leamed thet while Subject stated be ie from Aontormey, he does
not. speak Spanish, ;

3. Both mazes were run through the files of this Office vith naga
tive results.

4, Your Burega representative in Mexico City has Leen informed of
thio informatica end has also been provided vith a cory of the photograph.
Thiy information 4 being mde available to your Bursa with the umier
otamiing thaxt it will receive no farther disseminstion vithows pricr
approval of this Ofriece.



- probe: Liiynic

BASIC: 33998

MATSON: fone ne
ese1-316/02511-67

“a gune 1967

Distribution: - :
orig & a = Addressee
= RI (50-6-74/6)
i > CI/LIA
1 = CI/RLA
1- Vay MX
1 - 'i/1/chro
1 = Wi/1/Jene (hola)
L - wi/2o/A

Coordinated witl
wH/Securit;

wicoc/el___

- "he


nigecof Station. Hextcd Citey.~
1 [RSH REDCOAT: ' pases
< photos “of ‘Unidentified visitors to Soviet Embassy

eno Raa ¢

REFERENCE: MEXICO CITY 1240, 27 April 1967"

1. Attached ‘are photés, obtained through LILYRIC of the
two men and a child who were seen visiting the ‘Soviet Embassy.
eeoo April 1967, They were driving a brown and cream-colored
Ford Galaxi 500-Station Wagon: with U.S. license plates NIV 858
(state not identifiable). _

2, Also attached are copies of the memoranda sent to local
LNERGO on the subject.

_-for/Wi}iard Cy CURTIS | ~

atl: Be fowtee?

Attachment:
A, = Photos
B, - Nemoranda

Distribution:

~ CAD w/atts.
1 = C/SB w/o/atts.

ts COPY

DSPATON SWE AID RNESER
HMMA-S2052 22 May 1967

exsraares es Fa ER
SECRET 50-8-10/11



HFREWITH ATTACHMENT TO:
HMMA-3205k, 22 May 1967


a
gown aod ereaascoloréd Ford
Aicesse. plates NIV 838, The
‘ae had oxenge ausbere against

a black backgrounds
2, A photograiph of tha above mea gith be furafshed to your

office when printe aro availoble. :
“4 :
| us INFORMATION 16 yEai A CONPIDENTTAL SOURCE. Yt wus NOT BE
PART QUTSION YOUR OPYICK WITHOUT aren,

DISSEMINATED IN wHoLe Oa IN
APROAL OF TES ORIGINATING OFFICE Iu MEXICO CITY. -

BeCRET

Dietributioat Original = Addresses
H a © 50-2-4/A_
! j- 50-8-10/11 . :
eae 1» Memo Chrono 7
1 = Wash Pouch

9 :
Attachment (B)

HEREWITH ATTACHMENT
0: a

HMMA-32051, 22 May 67

6 COPY
3206s]

ieee,

z
2
:
Fe

E
3
;
LE:
2



suBsecr : Unidentified Visitors to Soviet. Rubassy

1. Reference’ is made to our memorandum #11684 on the
sane subject, dated 28 April 1967.

2, Attached are photographs of the two men and a-child
who visited the. Soviet. Babassy on 20 April 1967 driving a
brown and cream-colored Ford Galaxie 500 Station Wagon with
U.S. license plates NIV 858 (state not identifiable),

# 11,747

THIS INFORMATION IS FROM A CONFIDENTIAL SOURCE, IT MUST NOT
BE. DISSEMINATED IN WHOLE.OR IN PART OUTSIDE YOUR OFFICE -
WITHOUT. PRIOR APPROVAL OF THE ORIGINATING OFFICE IN MEXICO

ciTY,

Enclosure;
Photographs

Distribution;
Orig = Addresseew/enc.
Lim S0a2=4/A *
1 = 50-8-10/11
£4 Wash Pouch’ HMMA-32051
1 - Memo Chrono

sora 2k

we te ara 3



f - _

of; : (CONF “WTIAL (1 SECRET +

(UNCLASSIFIED v..
ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

\

arte a fo Seie] Enbauy fey

ee 16/02142-67
9 May 1967

oar

orncer's | COMMENTS (Number cach comment fo show from whom
TRETALS | to whom. Drew ling ocrots column after each comment)

MicROri-MED

WH/FE | ay fe
a: Wt 198

SB/O/WH ») a

WH/SEC

D0
1? MAY to67

- (OS LO MRSS" Ce] secret 71 conripentiat =) RERHAL) UNCLASSIFIED


i SECRET NO F2ne"y pigs

1 . Director
Federal Bureau of Investigation
Attention: Mr, 8, J. Papich

“ ¥ROM,¢ Deputy Director for Plane

TRE QAP sh UE Le wie Os

SUBJECT: © Visitor to the Soviet Babasay, Mexico city hr

1. A reliable, sensitive source reported on 9 March 1967,
that an Americam-looking male stopped at the Soviet Embassy in
Hexico City and talked with the Soviet Consul, Valentin
Sergeyevich LOGINOV, The man did not enter the Eobassy, He
waa driving what appeared to be a late wodel Buick Klectra,
Bearing Ficrida tags 10-%-67776,

2, Investigation revealed that these 1980 Florida tage
were issued to Lester Linton and Kthel STANGER of Pompano
Beach, Florida for use ona 1964 Buick sedan.

a. Lester Linton STANGER was born’ 5 D
ig retired and according to the current: (March
directory resides 5841960 8, EB. 16th Street, Pompano Bench, |

Florida, jtelephone 941-887:

b. Ethel HcBride ‘ANGER was bor!
and resides with her husband in Flarida,

c.. Police and credit checks were non-derogatory.

3. There was no information on either of the STANGERS
ig the files of thie Oftice.

4. Your Bureau representative ia Hexico City has been
inforued on the contents of paragraph 1 above, and thio
information is being wade svailable to your Bureau with the
understanding that it will receive no further dissemlaation
without prior spproval from this Office,

C8CI-316/02142-67



@Sc1-316/02142-67 |.
“9: May 1967

addressee

RI..(50=6-74/6) ©

CI/LIA - ~
CI/REA

WH/1/MEXI

WH/L
Jane (hold)
WH/PO/A

Coordinated with:...
$B/0/¥1

HL - ———
WH/SEC |

BASIC: MEXICO.CITY 1042, 10 April 1967 (uN-41593)

PROJECT: LILYRIC
LIAISON: None : 5

-2- pot,



inset
13ita 181266297

DIRECTOR t
REDCOAT

1. LILYRIC REPORTS KEXTCAL LOOKLiiG HAN AND WOMAN

DRIVING WHITE CONET WITH. RED TOP, TEXAS Lites J5V 654 penee

VISITED SOVIET EHSASSY 11 GAY BETWEEN HOURS OF 1113 TO 126. a ba
2. REPORTING TO LGCAL LhERGU

SECRET

8T =

RET,

ir

et Ps
SUF eo
«
bee soe 7
: [3MAVE?)



: chief: “of Station, ‘Mexico City/

we REDCOAT/Photos- of Unidentified Visitors to Soviet aaaety
Aero emt AORN

, REFERENCE: MEXICO city 1282, 2 May F180

Attached are photographs obtained through LILYRIC of the

three unidentified visitors to the Soviet Embassy on 26 April

Forwarded also is a copy of the memorandum forwarded to

1967,
the local LNERGO representative on Subject,

Attachment:
1 - Photos
2 = Memo

Distribution:
t2°— C/WHD w/att, #1 & 2
l= C/SB w/att. #2 only coTs <

ASA [ B16 -cwesy-O7

Be No- 75533

&
TET Tae wee

HMMA-31981
Sar
SECRET

il May 1967

50-8-10/11



“Attachsont #1

FOR: Chief, WH Division i
FROM; ‘Chief of Station, Moxico City

HEREWITH ATTACHMENT TO: | ~
HMMA-31982, 11 lay 1967 -



Attachment #2

i “ET

11 May 1947

MEMORAHOUM FOR: ° ites!
FROM : e : ‘
SUBJECT : Unidentified Visitora to Soviet Bubassy

t
1

1. Reference ig made to cur monorandum on the sano
gubject, dated 3 Hay 1967.

2, Attached are photograpls of the three unidentified

men who appeared to be Americans who visited the Soviet
Embassy on 26 april 1967 driving a 1967 Ford Mustang with
Texas license plates CLS 464,

@ 41,717

Enclosure:
Photographs

THIS INFORMATION IS FROM A CONFIDENTIAL SOURCE, IT MUST
NOT BE DISSEMINATED IN WHOLE OR IN PART OUTSIDE YOUR OFFICE
WITHOUT PRIOR APPROVAL OF THE ORIGINATING OFFICS IN MEXICO

CITY,

Distribution:
Orig - Addressee (w/enc)
1 = 50-2-4/
2 ~ $0-8-10/11 (w/enc)
1 = Wash Pouch (iMWA-31981, w/enc)
1 = Yemo Chrono



Chief of Station, Bexico Cf ae

Division

wane

OQ xppcoaT/Visitor to the Sovict Smbass;
SS SST :

Action Required: FYT
References A, URXICO CITY 1042, 10 April 1967
BR. HMMA-31734, 4 April 1967
: : t Perlis
1, 1966 Florida license plate 10-W-67776 was assigned
for use on a 1964 Buick Sedan owned by Lester Linton and
Bthel STANGER of Poapano Beach, Florida. Police and credit
checks were non-derogstory,

: a Lester Liston eStancxa was born; 51 December 1893
and is retired, .The surrent atte 1967) telephone directory
lists him as residing pe 1960_S, 5, 16th Street, Pompano Beach, fis Rg
Telephone 941-8872.

SER

fa
b. Ethel McBride *STANGER, his vife, was born
9 November 1894 and resides with her husband in Florida.

2 There were no Headquarters traces on either of

the STANGERS,

3. This inforeation was made avialable to LNERGO
Headquarters,

Distribution
2 - COS, Mexico City

LALMAY 1967, -
SOc te

8 May 1967

wos FILE ROWDER

59-6-74/6

RI
Chrono

fom
ey

$3. cee remove common

wo. 198



DIRECTOR
REDCOAT LEIHPROVE : "

ON 20 APRIL“ 1967. AN UNIDENTIFIED AMERICAN MAN
AFIED MEXICAN MAN AND A CHIL

ACCOMPANIED BY AN UNIDENT
IVING IN A 1967 nov AND

THE, SOVIET EMBASSY. THEY WERE SEEN ARR

CREAM COLORED “FORD GALAXIE 500 STATION WAGON WITH U.S. License
i

STATE NOT IDENTIFIABLE® PLATES HAD ORANGE

PLATES NIV 858.
UMBERS AGALNST BLACK BACKGROUND +/ THEIR VISIT LASTED ABOUT

TEN MINUTES. : saan

foe
sECRET ; feet
BT

we en ee AGS Jay, 6P .
aa yt Jira tt-bF Aer *
esr & Bot 7H.



wit divas

“eniet. SB. Div:

Chiet

~~ REFBREMCE? “MEXICO, _grty-0600
i Attacbed is & éopy of 8 senorandun dated 30.March 1967
gent. to local LNERGO regarding Subject. The source of the

attached photographs is LILYRIC, 9 March 1967.

‘for/willard C, CURTIS

Attachment: |
Photos and Memo

Distribution:
2 = CWH, w/att., H/W
i -CsB, w/o att. [Co TO

Ske

tf P1240

HMMA = 31724 | 4 APRIL .1967

HGS rat OER

50-8-10/11

CUS ATON

s EC RET





‘prt Bacte perma oe

gasdentatied Visiter to the fovict Babassy

“1. Reference 19 nade to our pomerondus on tho sano
subject, dated 17 Barce 1987. -
8, Attached sre teo photographs ef the aan who visited
Harch 1967 éSivies

the Bovict Eabassy 19 nezico City on 9
@ car vith Florida tage & OeR=7776.

THIS IHFORUAT 100 18 FROM a CONPIDENTIAL BOORCB. 17 BUBT BOT
BE OIGSHSIMATED IW BHOLE O8 a5 pART ouTsiDs YOUR OFFICE
@ITROUT ERICA APPROVAL OF {HS ORIGINATING OFFICE Ii BEKICO

C3Tz.
a |g 12627
Attachment! :
Photoe :
Dietributiont :
w/att., H/T

Original - Addressee,
1 © 50-2-0/A, w/o

le 60-8-10/11, w/ott.
1 © pe11712, w/o

|. = Memo Chron, w/o

2 - Gash bh, w/att.

%

K



See a ee SECRET:

iT Maren 1967

mewoRaNDUM Yor: _ ir. .Wathan L. Ferris, Legal Attache

-feliable. source “has , reported that on 9
ppeared to be an Anerican stopped at.
the Soviet Embassy is ‘Hesieo ‘City to talk with Soviet .Conaul
Valentin Borgeyevich LOGINOV, . The man did not “enter the
Soviet Embaasy. Hé was driving what appeared to be a late
modol Buick Electra with Florida tags @ 10-¥-7776,

mans Pua We Of the above aan will be furnished to
your office when prinis are available.

THIS. INPORATION I8 FROM A CONFIDENTIAL SOURCE, IT BUST NOT
BE DISSEMINATED. IN WHOLE OR IN PART OUTSIDE YOUR OFFICE
WITHOUT. PRIOR APPROVAL OF THE heist chentabt tata OFFICE IN MEXICO

city.

@ 11581

Distribution:
Original - Addressee ~
1 = 3024/4
1 = 50-8-10/11
.~ Memo Chron
1'= Yash pouch

= —_ a =|

i
i


SEG R E T-1523332 CITE MEXICO cit ey.

DIRECTOR eas
REDCOAT
L, PER LILYRIC OM 9 MARCH “A SAY DRIVING WHAT APPEARS

TO BE LATE HODEL BUICK ELECTRA WITH FLORIDA TAGS 19-¥-7776
/

STOPPED. AT SOVIET ENSASSY AND TALKED WITH CONSUL ve
LOGINOV, MAN DID NOT ENTER EMBASSY.

Qe pak eReautle /
: ]G LOCAL LNERGO.
SeecRET

LYLYRIC OFS
—

SOL
LS MAR CT


Action Roavired! Por Your Information

In Teremter i 14 Rayatnd H. DERDR, Prinetpel Agent.fer the LIMP PY,
prepare a serurty resign trelodtng re": Latons, on
3. DUITBD af LEGA Snebradee vieandte Sua let
Tin follwint veracmephe rantaine eltently
which was received an 2% Deceater Lyob.
aad.

de
Prodan, wae ace te
tne sevesie of tbe il
“fmm lanbte of Gnatr axiat canes
eilted yersiun of UEREME = reyort,
Death enemies fice SERINE! @ ant ares

TATE

pe Un Ate erence nee Loration LEILYRIC is the newest of the photc bases
under wy crn, Acura to LIBAPPY- thare hea been fc initeatian of
intarest of any acrt vy the seviete in the faniiy's gove to the new spartasnt
hw wma thare tn the just acy ahgw of intoreet ur prcaliar bohavier on their
(Sevtet'a} part vith rasard to the ald bare aw the possibility that they misht.

be adder Ehoto vurver} lane.

3, Tae qver tur the work carried an ty tele base fe gout since the
vite, LIRMPPY-18, whe tows sost of the wort bas no troable ta justifying
hor preagece at twee all of ths tiue, The eon, LISIPFT-27 16 8 midtcal
atuaent anf attends hia clasess regularly and can justify bis boure as
study houre. (Ne continues to Be &n axcellas student ana wae exeapted fros
eiusttaticns at the vad-of thie, Ris secwd rear iu medical aghool., Aetaally,
na etudtan moat of the night), LIBMPAY-1! marines no cover aa Re has @
Tulivtii Job as onsuntion manager for alarms concerp and be usualiy-aakeo
ip mectinge with TEROWNE in Ais way to or fro warts : :

cant inaedss.

Tastritetion?
A= Rat ay



socurit7 rink; hevever, his pra
to ats halecey pretanly ows be ‘ute
cautious abwt checking Sleeaif £

330 SE PRE oUs aUTON

“CONTINUATION. OF
Olspatcn

he Soviet pers Gnnel i
‘pictures of ‘visitars, unrnwn 5
Operators go to the other roca and’

Ses GERENDE' 8 Coanant. Tt nebaa ‘to methine any: care!
“the Soviets. wild have reveainl the tell-tale pontts
fa doth the: old’ ant tha nev. tnwes,: I have m douvt
they are unter photo: survetLiance. The wove by the
new butlding gust surely have been noted. by the Sovieta,

think the femtly fo working vith tho losal suthorition dua to LIENPPY-13'a
“former asaccinthor with the Mexican Aray. : : -

that the Suviets realize

Gq" Station Conennta, The Ovation agrees’ vith OMEN that careful ””
observation by the Soviets wuld. Nave revealed the
dlinds srt also the tact that thena b;

Linis are onlacy open, - The Station also
aarwes-that the Soviets realizs ti

Fab they aie under paoto surveillance.
This wae pointed cut mcentty wien a Soviet shialind ap LNEHOO walk-in vhen*
fhe7 pasved.the front wate of the Asbassy and aadd a eien.tc the walkein
[rileating that they could Ur amet Ly gomeana watchirn vith a taloacope

from the bullitings: agrmsa, thr atrest, Aled, ay Msabtuirters ta awira, there
have Doan iuariwur coments by rsitenta of Marion city ta tho offect thee
Eating entering the sevint bepasey to photcempherts hoover, eeldaa has tt
beach Pumored that tbs “Azericans” are doing it,
believe tha Mexican (kvarnmant {A
reaffiratog OBGNUE's wtatenant
Osvernment runs the dave,

deine eny such photographing and theroby
that the Sovieto posaibly balieva the Mexican

7. Given the asausp
thia-potnt dona net ular terninate or revamp the LELYXIC installation,
MO ceemationad chara hy the cferatore vould te spntued oy the Bortote and
if tha Tnea vere closed th Acrieta would etart lonkire for a new installation,
The LILYEIC tase te pertam furctiin and it Le believed that tt
WiLL eantinue te do eo. The chwteta RAVe had oppoctemtiag to, eceplain to
the Mexican Goverroont ablait Leite acnitiand jttreinically and have not
fem Ht to do’ eo apt it fa omltavad that they prdatly vill not do so unless
there 18 @ radiest charge tn tevint ani/or Kaxtean policy, fhe Station bas
inatructed GHXENDE t: take avery precantion during his mostinga wlth Liparry-13
Ram that LIDUTVA2S dee nut leadthe Societe to nia ant thereby
Jecpardizing cther operations, asjwesally: LIGALLA,

’

8, The charntor of the LIMIFED Base, LIDOTY-6,18, to wy knovlotge,
tha oldest hand in the photo survelllance sat the Soviet target and possibly
‘the met likely to ba “bummi"., Hie restdetive for years at the former Inse
(now the atte of the new LILYRIC batlding) ‘and bie wove to the present base
cosa nxt have mme unnotisal by the sovieta.:, Hie cover te that of on ff
insuranie salemma, but he actually ‘dona not Mork nt the cover. ant is at
@ dleatvantage in trying to eayiain hia omiree'el Lssomes Ab timer, in years
Past, No hed ti afford CiLi-tles coverage Trou the vane, which allowed’ him
Ro time to engage th creiiblescwer antivitios, :

Qe GRAINS Comments, Ido net hallere tha’ LIEMIPY-6/LINTIED deo
ont peateiof, writing fre an open dour leasing
Abed by ithe Uoviet«s LIMWTY-6 in oxureely
oF Burvel Lave when waxing wout Ireto.

ful obagrvation by’
on of ‘the venetian blinds

femlly from the-ald to the
Possibly the Soviets

aiesing elat in. the venstian

which night indloate aost people

fon that the LILVEIS tase tn blow, the Station at.

ae oe



: ec - i)

TETRA Ra FSET TOT
CONTINUATION OF
OISPATCN GECRST PMA-SULA

4, The pat-up tn. the old ag voll ao the new Sane ta the follovingt

2 sce and triad = fe wrinted in one bedroom beh{ ad
Venetian bina with oe siat repoveds Thio poe te iveked to keap sarrante
VE nny onancn Sitrutes frum entering, The operatory do nut epend all their
tine behing the casersy cot Ry to the adjotring oedrus viare a table ant
typewriter ane sat up and vhere the daily ices arm transcribed, mmitting done,
ee ener Sotivity that does not require full comentration ta carried out.
Tho curtains and blints in thie roca are kept partially or fully open to allow
kood visibility and prov Most of the datly aoverent of
the Soviet personel ts followed free tiie roos ani vhen it te necosaary to
take pictures of visitors, unkmvn persona or navly arrived Soviets, the
operators go to the otner roe and use the pre-net aqulpeant,

+ CREE

The opt prans,

5+ OERENDE's Cogent. Tt aeoaa to mo that. any careful obaorvation by
the Soviots would hava roveaint the tell-tale poslticn of the venatian blinds
fo both the old ant the im tmwes, I have nv doubt that the Soviets realize
Ahoy are unter phote survetlianca, The move by the family fron the old to the
Dew butlding must cursly have been noted by the Soviets, Posatbly the Soviete
think the famtly 0 vorking with the losal: authorities dua to LIMPTY-13'e

former association with the Mexican Amy.
a

64 Statinn Commanta, The Station sgrees with OURETDR that careful
obeorvation by the Sovieta vould Nave revealed the atesing elat in tha venatian
also the tat that theaa blinds are onlaca cpen. The Station also
Soviete hat they are under pnoto survol Lianee,

Cul reeant ly when a Soviet ehialdnd an LNEFNO walk-in whent
Sobagsy and mato a sien tc the walk-in
im vafetir with @ taloacope

they passod.the front sata of the
Intteating that they could ter amen by -woan
frm tho dulltings avrone tbe atreet, Alo, ag ilémdtuacters (a amure, thane
have doen manus coments iy rasitentea of Mexico City to ihe offace thet
anyone entering the sewiet Lunaaay to photcarphxt: however, aeldea has tt

been minored that tbe “Aericana aro dotiw it, vhtch might indents wost peeple
delieve tha Nexiean Govammaant ta dotry any euch photogeashing ani thereby
reatfirulog GHGNDE's wtatenent that the Soviety posatbly baliere the Moxisan

Government rune the base,

T. Given the asaurptfon that the LILYE taae in blown, the Station at
thia point dona net terminate or reveap the (SLYMTC installation,
Avy Sperational chara hy the cjerators vould te apotted vy the Bovtete and
if the Dasa were closed tne Sortota would start lorkire for a new installation,
Whe LILYHIC tage fa part cnaicy 9 useful Mawcticn ant Lt lu imlievel the: Le
SiLD eontinus to do so. The iceteta have had apport cies tn cemplain to
Lhe Mexican Coverrroent abut belns, ncnttiaed phwlursentcally and have not
sem fit fo doi sa amt it {a oaltmved that they proatly vill not do go unless
there tu @ mcient charge in ievint eni/or Haxican galicy. ‘The Bhation bas
stabructed CHINE t. take avery pracaition during Ale mpotings with LIFAPTY<13
ty aaeiew that LLUTY= 14

seer nut) Lem) the Sovlets te nla ant thereby
Jecparctaiag other operations, asp taly LIGALLA,

»

8 Me cparator of they LIMITED Base, LIDATY-6,15, to oy imevleige,
fhe cldest hand in the photo survelllance ut the Soviet target amd posaihiy
the aost Likely to de “bumel". Hie restdenee for yearu at tho forser Base
(now the alte of the new LILYRIC balding) and bin weve to tho prevent ace
ge2td ret have Rune unnotical by the Govieta. He cover te that of an
insuzanta sales, but he actually dood not Mork at the cover ant is at
e dleadvartngs to wrriuy ty exviain bia emia ef Lacces. AL timer, in years
Past, Dé hed bo arfors Sahtet bee wermuts Tras the tape, whink alloved kin
mo tine to ong in creilblesciver aitivitien.

9+ SHREDS Comments, I do net heliore tha’ ILEMPY-6/LIMTIED ts 0
Securt7 Thaki baever, Ala preernt meauint wrking Pret an om dour leading
to Ris balecey prvtathly cas bo sLeAted bysths Uerfets, LIeTY-6 in omtivanely
Cautious abst checking hlaseif for surveil Lia: det BALinNg weet Lieto.



ee os - . pare
“| 2 Chief of Station, Kexteo Cit:
\f ueeer, : see
21 EEROTY Project Rensval Request _

‘[Retowacquatn-meruninces

. Action Required’ See Paragraph 2

3: Station Nexted Chty's Project LISIPIY expires on 50 Noveaber
. 3; Porvarded herewith end under soporcte cover in split transaission
io the Requeat: for Renewal of Project LIRWTY. :

_ Be Tt fa requested, that Project LIEGTY be reneved for the period
L Déconber 1966 through39 Novneber 1967-in the caount of $45,009, oF
thio total, $29,620. ghould bo allotted for F¥.1967 and $15,929 for

FE 967. :

for/iilierd C. CURTIS

Attechaont#
Left bond aide hAy
Rigkt hand side usd.ce

Dictributioat ;
3 = CAD w/att b/v & usoece ‘i ry
na)

r
{ . | aenarmoere Samer OO
: i MAW5ObO3 :

. HOS PAE muMOER

GASSICATION



2, Saugus

the LEGHICK inotallation and personnel. Specific exaaples of the LESPTY ©
ENS ‘a progress and contributions to the RD will ‘be fourid in Section 3
delow Pare tery. eae

SIVESESS) »

‘A. Operational ~ As noted'in the previous. Request, for Project: Renewal,
the former LIMITED property was aold to LEUSRS, vio oa ‘per forrich agree= :
next vith the Station, denolfghed the old cticture and constructed @ new
eiitice. Wille dt wns initially contemplated to pleco the LEITED

{ULu@Tve -b°and'-7)' personnel tn the new building end to retain the sone,
Givision of workload between LILYRIC ana LEGTSD, it wav leter - >
Gaciued to nove the present LILYIUC basélouse personnel (LIETTYc-13, oth,
S26 and -27) into the new bao instead, along with the following ancillary

modifications s* 7 : :

“Aa taereage in the hours of both. the photosraphic ard physical aurveiliance
coverage provided froa the new baca by the LILYAIC operators (¢800-1600
hours) during the weekdays. and to have the LIUTED base provide :
photographie and physical surveillance coverase trot 1600-1839 hours

on Weekdays and fron 0990-1300 hours on.weekends, These changes were
Aletated by the following considerations:

1, The now LIMCUSINE building offers a uch better vantage point
for both photographic and physical surveillance than does the
ipreaent coaplex Which houses the LILYRIC and LIMITS bases.
‘Mherefore, the Station felt that the personnel occupying this
new base should be those posaessing the hicheot technical skills
and algo those able to provide the cost thorough and coaplete
coveraze. Since the LIWTID base now hes only one trained
operator while the LILYRIC baschouse has three, the LILYALC croup”
and a revision of working hours was indicated.

2. Because it was apparent tit the coverage of the LDGERICK

{astallation would be a lony-renge end’ continuing requireaent,
the Station desired to steff the new base with personnel of long”
range potential. LIZPTY-§, now alnost 60 years old, does not
possess this potenticl; however, the LILYAIC agent complex

happily coabines experienced personnel with youthful asents.

3. Finally, the social ond financial status of the LILYAIC
$ersonnel 15 such sore cospatible and consistent with the en=
vironzen’ of tae nev building than is thet of the LDGTSD fasily.

ed revised Work schedule was initiated in July 1966 and
began in late

‘The above-eit
\ the actual covesent of the LILYRICs into the new bese

Septeaber 1965.



Chief, 60 bivinton °°”

_ Chsef,: 88 Division

tion, Mosico City.
KAPOK/REUTOP/is: | UPROVE/LICOBLA 1. Progress: Report...

arch: 1960 y
V.to du! The. folloving items of significance
i this’ per r oes Siete
J) my AVSUALITY=11. LICOWL=1. (Subjoct) coatinued to report
froquent moot whib AEQUALITY=1, AEQUALITY-1 sporndically
world ask Subjuct ti got Ri a woran, discuss “housesof prosti=
tutton, ask for pornographic .watertel, cto. But th
with mich hera rrugocecy than previously reported; AEQUALITY-1
Rover once perniatud or followed up ov a requont of this nature
and, in fact, nutzing happened, . ARQUALITY=1. continued to call
Bubject. regularly at the latter's utoro (3 to 5 tines a week) -
usually to aak fer @ oecr br woft drink to bo sont over. These
calle ovded abruptly on 11 Juno (LIENVOY), possibly in connection
with AEQUALITY=1's taking over the jol) an Evibassy Adointstrative
Officer. During Sune AEQALITY=1 told Subjoet severs) times

that he was in the provess of taking over the job ag adninistrative
officer st the mabacoy. (COMMENT: por LILY2IC AFGUALITY~1

a taking gate duty and EALYGIN, the former Administrative
Officer, started in). Gn 24. June AEQUALITY=1 told Subject”

that be ona aow “officially” the Admintatrative officer, On”

1 July ABQUALITY-1 cad bis fartly moved tnto quarters ineido

the Eabensy por Bubject and LILYRIC, (COMMEMF: The Administrative
Officer haz altsys lived inside the Bebansy). :

bb LERUSTIC-): In ald-June LIRDYTIC-1 moved into her
nee apartment near bubject‘'s store sad Logan to go ta the store |
teo or three tines a day to pick up small items for ber apartment.

She was on vacation peading a new job starting on 1 July asd ia

’ © CONTINUED =
Attachnents
Contast Reporte, USC
ia Distribution:
2 = C&R, w/att., As Stated
1 = CEH, w/o att. Lie ary [6 (rey

uae. bet 62

37 _SEPTENSER 1000.

away eae wees

301-741655



Bt tSTa
ly ebs Literals
bet Bo comrerss
aryect

ccteh lowe, te also *

2% pooling brunette, “mord..

iiendetvee, -LIBUSTIC-2
niuhad ber to: @ Soviet

tied “gustieL:.oa 4 ay . ubjoet eas) given “aa ‘sosatan
eaasination waled be passed with flyisg colere.

4. On 13 duiy Doaalad'J, BARICE, com: oted 2 review of
Babject*s caso vaick cxparded on the Sistion’s reservations
exproseed: ta LEA|S 692, 13 Soveaber 120% and concladod that
Gwbjoct was ‘unter 5 contrel, RARICK'a report seda sicrofilp
of Bubject*s file vers. foruirded to Headquarters ‘fo SEA-S901¢,
1 September 196d.

2, On 1? and 19 July 396 Prancte J, COIGMR scconpanied
Irving A, OSCWSX¥ to wectiags vith Gubject ia preparatioa for
fakiog orar the cane, Although MiGs, piriicipated as aa observer
and LICOTL-«] casa't tuld unti] the eat of the secord seoting
that COIGHE would taks over, COICRE wag Gf the Jaftnite ispression
that Subject, aithoush addreaping hiers!? to O2942KY, wan
Intercutod only in CUISZE and that OfONTET had literally ceased
to aziet as a persco for Subjest, Thin tzproanioa waa atrengthensd
at the end of thw second meotiag (19 july) shen ORONSEY told
Gubject that he enuld is leaving. Sebdject dido’t react in any
wARaner to this ststesent but. imeediataly Leagan talkigg. ca
another subject. Surgrtsed, OLOK#TY anked Gebject if he kad
undorntosd, Subject sAid ha had asd ayain went off on seother
eudjest. Subjoct's teactiou, or rather lech of réantion, vas
@@ cold and imsersossl s9 to be positively woird, In addition,
free hie cetachet purities aa en obecrvar ¢uriay theee two
meoting:, COIGHE had an instinctive, yuseip yersenel fusiizg
that Sabject wes hasicaliy falog. Very itttle bao subsequeutly
eceurred which would alter that issrcosica, On 37 July OROSAEY

Bot Fabject alone since COIGMZ ws sick.

2. Gartng dugcet and Septender COIGHE wet Babjoct six
tiseo, Durlog tits hort poriad Rubtect ruported that ABQUALITY=3
had tried to reerult him, be invited tre Sovists to nis boss
twice (LIRUTTICel ras tuvited both tives}, the Station staked
owt thona Seviot riaite, the Btation had Subject urite ppecial
Peports ca AXQUALITY-i'a vietts to bis picre asd instituted
enpacded LILYZIC/LIVITTD coverage to inciude Saturday sortings,
aad Subject volustesre! certain inforantina about Boviet
contacts, Fran the abuve Subject ecierced as-9 conuiotent

oxaggeratar and consetous Mar to the point that sone ef the
§ coatssta

nreetton that de han
Se Go “eosstaa as

LYRUSTIC-T aa repr
to tho Statioa waa oxtrasely guapie lows.

3. Sines events naved so rapidly in August aod Soptender

“pied “Sero~ atti vee-almsatbopoleaelyiniertylaod, we ail] develop

SS Ne

fees

RSS

then bere poletetr-peta: da erder to avictaln Logsaal enters
Is order te provice 1 dotasl tha contact reports are boing

transmitted usder _Separeia cover.



Bee Ti

reser sane eg)

CORDNUA CORN CF
DISEATC

1¢ Adgust “ta tecion this farther. Bu
to secept: thin assig-aert without ebotkicg vith the Btatica,
Sgresd tn priscipie to ereivido this toforzation but pat
= oa e afacor until teniay, 37 Segest in ordor
cn caes officer, fe told ASQTALITY=}
Sbat be eoutdn’t FosatSty cotlest any tnfermatioa tp two days,
ASQUALITT=-1 agreed to tho 31 Auguat atte ard esid that he aad
bis fricud tale pica Subject’ up at tee stars at 1490 -(olesing
tims) oa thig dato and. drive B88 te bte bos for dinaer.

e ata twles.. (There is ap
weation of LIBWPTY-3, LIFOUSIER ay LILTHIC 45, fa! t's setss
for 13 Avgust.) Al thoug® Gublect did set say at ehat tien
1 cams.to bis shop or bee lokg $o stayed, both QiNITED
Ged LILYRIC reported thai ADGUALITY<1 wan cat sloae ca feat
Ap tha direction ef Subject's adop for about an heur 63 12
Angent from ca 1335 t. 2425, an weusedlly leng peried ia thear

Fepertiag,

which was te celetrate the birth of thatr latest tar
oa 2 Angust. (LIRUSTIC-1 bsd baen througs all the details of
this birth with gudject'a vite), They tald LIRTSTIC@1 that

sone of that goss Seviet friends would be pressat as well as

eose Bexican friexds usd tarily members.

@. Burtag 839 18 Aegust meoting Gubjoct maid tht the Eeviots
*® Crfay to think thet snyane in Rho botytbortecd ena eyying

S.: Aghes why, be oatd tant LIRWPTY<d dida't gO ont to
of €Bt Stayed at bows atl tae tine,
Stor wince be ts slivers typing.

LB bezy comfortably snd oyna s ear,

freerater bow, whos, shore or fron wics bo heard thig
™20Ys (the Gtatioa sae no record of shia report.) a

7 ubject did not Oppser te be the least conearand about
Frwaert of esrving as AIGUALITE Sl 'e informaat. ia fact,
Be arena to bess tant tho care officer wald spprure it.
Bo bad to y told sa etrons tence &@ reject the ofzar,
fa-¢iscussteg sow to achiere this subject

GAs Chat baceuid tavite pens girle “to the fiests . oF
eran 82 diacr” ge that ARGUALINT=1 would Rare a0 Gppor tuaity
ttor, senesatit ae BesRsresiadneu



DISPATCH

that Sudject,
1

CONTINUATION OF

507 on 21 fugzat. to

Z <7, -@ eo RERUSTIC?1was Lnutrueted to tt
t Vo aleo put a ataf! staxo~sut 64 Dudjoct's hes wit

dovieln arrives et -fudjoct's
ALITY-l's car ang tho tro

beas
Boviets loft. st )1800. LIRDSTIC<1 exe got Seca. a “!

©, 00 83 Acguat 1966 Subject

Bis etfs acd tro

tt

rted that on 19 August

he covlén

21 August decnare the fov'
leave. that
‘(COBRENT .

Strange cordact: for
: IRUSTIC=1

tet Anbaesadet

"t ecng to the diaser os

Feported thet ea 80 Aegust
Soviets eculda’t cand
“floata,” LESOSTIC=!

7 vas dve back from keno

weekend {trvo). and everybody had te stand by.
ocaecne trying to ossfira @

 (LIBDETIC-) gubsoqusatly reported. th .
hadn't seeds aiy Soviets, and: ¢

bad ¢cno

‘cos!
ber that the govicts
@ she ras inte gexec perfectly walid

i

oy

ea
»

i

16.

to the Babessy to got pi
GFBILAOV (201-7730), 1

had bees receatly touting ae 2 great
went to Gubject’s bems ia APQUALITY=!

not bring op tho subject
“wisit.
tequila that be ted ebte.
. Agserding te Sab;
attespts to “Strive

i

Quite to the contrary be

ebe dt.

Rack to Subject vie reparted that oa 21 Angi’
AMQUALITT<1: cama fo for a best.
was gerry that Re coulGa’t caso for

that day. ARGUALIT¥=1 promptly accepted aad ron back

Of coureg, the staf? etabe~cst tad
‘and she hadn't, Later, |

, enid that aiseo Suhjost: had told

@oriets couldn't cexe,

da°t go hereslt
s Lead.

prob!
absat goiag becanse the eace officor bad instructed

as bo
Bchjoat's

‘ae iriead oxo tussed eet te be Viktor P.,

Be.

baiacgctor'a obantiear bem Bubject
friend,
1ge car.

“Thoy all thea
ARQUALITY-1 did

of Babject’s reoruitesst daring tho

reaarned
ined poraissicn to

te Subject over S
visit Gubject’s

eet AEQUALITY=1 tes caly sade threo

temo" thig recruitesst 1

a, @2 18 Acgust bo netted if Bodject bad nay iaforratica
yet. Subject esevered that ke badn‘t had tine.

b. @3 19 Auguet wadle telling Gubject
esms te dinner ea 21 August, aated

bad anp inferertica yet.

ARQUALITY=1
Subject anscornd

tine to collect this typo ef teformtica.

taat Subject could got it froa the
enid bo deosn't have tise.

gatter sma dropped.

(CosIEeT
Subjost is

ne

Ga 3 Septesber while
LIEWPTY-S caso fe to order ecucthing.
ASMALETI=) ated Subject te provice Anforanticn.
refused,

maids of fsailics.
ol did not fasist acd tha

that Re conlda’s

ABQUALRTY<1 suggested
Buajost

ABQUALITY=1 was fa the chop,
Bion LIEKPTY-O latt

ca him, dubjest

LEEIETY-d ene not on duty at tuat tins.) As far aa
eeneerned tao uatter is Gov elasod.

Bubject’s seecust of thin resruiteent attenp? is

as to cuggect

that 22 never eccurmat.

g@ igoredabl~

Ta eddities

Gieeribe ARGUALITY=1 aa the

ts the Gbovs Sebjoct continnas to

Yor example, ABQUALITY-1 hidss tm

\——~-—-g labors ts-precectioxs.

typical Goviet umierling.

the tetlet for 73 ainutes staa tur “Sa@iplomata” como to, takes

26 Arie.

_teguite cat ef core betties to

egeape detection, cin’t “g7t out" fer varices Foarors, Ot675
hardly the deseription of a Bovict tryficg to recrai’

Amforzation on LIZITE2 aod LILYEIC. Eowover,

significant avd the ganear in which
__provecative.

ns sentioued thes highly

& sonsene

ag Boted bolov,

-—-— gap feut's meatien-of -LIZEPTY-, LILYRIC asd LIWUSIES 16 very.

3 $30 aie



8
emyTInE Lo adv tha ten g Tittie, isrited GOrHETS to

a temtaow 2) Sopvewsar, Fopject ts astiie Say, OCRCFATS,

olisert s@ hoe pe wid try to cose.”

ether Govleta sure aevited, Bot yet vet be’ sould probably

Savite eTRIzoF. Aazena sass", he Was ‘asbed ‘wearily

ho iouase that

Bore are canet a9 version that
first an! the Boviers alterrurds,

13, On 8 Repterter Jabjoet reported thzt SORORTTS, STRIEROV
and SEQUALIYY 1 dad Yelinitaly accepted tor 1) Septagter with
ten aure prebabies. Since tubject’ bac cot mectioved other
gunete (la the pial be bas alvare eald tiet be provided duxican
Birle), at the ona ci ihe agating Be was anhed 12 he were:
Aewit Ruwhe te aseominace BATH Lis tat. Re aacrered
that except fe were ealy Anviting
son girl, sf f~l, Bsre fellewd
B csoeriprien t living eaneshers. in
the caightorhwod, pucks in ae office sonewbenc, he and nis

pave hoor Ber sist a eenth, atc., sil perfectly casual
asd lasvcext, Ba nlar cored that Be had iarited ber to bia
last ftauta (21 augeat ch he baa alosya stoutly naintaised
waz A diceer omly for AZ CALIMWel and QTiiZEOV, Sat that abe
Gie aot come duw to haary ‘Thi vie co first tine
that Ba had moutioned LTi Ice] whe had heen visiting his
shop Since aié-Juoe, wie no tnd invited on 71 Augwsi eed vhes,
Bemniing to ber, Sa hat attempted to t rast in Dig Bovies-
frteuds, urged to erat ties La the ators usd sas, in fect,
Antroducsd ta ure or is. infommily 25 Lue eters.

16, 4t the
eft wits B

nent yeotiug oa 21 Sesteahyr Sublect © startled

©
STRILASY eed GONE # ts, a up At bie ahog at elasiag
time beartny elite ar v p doors to his hose

¢ et Subjoct's
WES a bottle of
2 told her that
9 memati ing
boy Altwade prepared,
ject Aprates his reat § + asep) and bia

wudat, @ Botiie ef eios
tan geviete i

fi
4
{

il
4
i
H
|

site w55 drove thea as ts
a? Sabject?s ing the tima
t there wore no Sevist cera

p8_the cer gatch MEZGSTIOW)



acd base’? return!
SULA the wess Sub,
avertge i2 throg tte

Bonk, these
neg fad AE!

yore ou duty,
pe thyee hosists in
for thea to be ¢
tise repertsd by gub.
ig that Subjer: ten
Am tah lTi~ .
of Rime fer

Guring thase viatlay

ee Bacerd i3yé os
Jota. goae. 8
Sivirg wegative reverts for tho sane.

Rey

oy

saat,

wether oe £

v

Poharrce.) (LEAcer
Othe wtore at this’ ti

SRITED es OC :
fetazen Lene 1030 4a ata “ear
isn sdsvabl lave: Aid been mocureds
ted ARVALITY sisitead Alavos sa
tom ten svisuins te t2 beat oaeh,
ad ae wares.
five minutes

Ties ena tiny
* Bahasny or
0 pat bio ie : Se “tha led
eayectaliy wre hu het reyorted
store for aie extax period.

a YaIU. aad Lins TSD
"IC had tape tow

ation the tat cere wake it ixpeusible

Eahject's atore anywhere near tho
bo (neseapchls, Gorvaosted conelusica

4 regularity faberrating vintts by

store abi axcamding the length
+.bema verified, aad therefore the
Bt ef talerution be iv able
Svat thea of fas inicrtation obtained

LAT, On 9 Reptewhor Aubject voluatescod tae isformation

vRad the Ee

tent Prektoed qu
B sfitoe ty

fers

Ay

<

Au Vastep aad that ba
14d, Barprsasd,
Sebfect aarcored

Lape watas

woot seo, Sed aaney Ruvject one,
ina efter, Be'rie: t's prozentstion
ede temtion: ro Bebject wan

lect ds BOten
ads nlatrxtor
wiatirg taat

2 hig wee Ber

penta.) HIT Beet ing
4a 90 no WRB

2 BSP aerate

yp after the
sr} he bad gous to
id dia tas7 were.
ther eapechcd pore ta about 1S
>i re could have
3 Qeptenver



Seiasgfassn yaessnuevaae ensnoresaninesit

{pores , porne
tna tbe eubjsect
red by aostriag:
t aad (bat,
Babject ‘thes
firl, introdase
thoy eithor ag
tted that @hip“us a. °
‘a6 vanced sow ral {
aocorpligh

7 3 DVO,
{Seort om bis ora initiatt
i ttoed statexcets a
IMS, TEe Logie! mo

Fo the.
MOUs LIYTY=g,
t3wo fer bis
plevse bis patron

mao loaing LIRBOTICHL,
reqilrexent to previdg

-Rigaly: provosdtive. ast set
Sheol gov LILYRIC and’ Limca
Grasyerationg sad Mdriesticng world be tn.
(WIKCT), Sosuver, he west seethe sithoae
the obviows, filfitigeat af hig ‘eetatand! ne
O Semna for ABGLLITIO1, amt gmaathing Ne cota really work
" BLth. “Trary nay bo *\sablicakve fu ARYOALITTA7 returaisg to
the Tabsesr to lave erity AfSer LERPETIC~? ontsrod the
al td tor adsiniatrace
‘Bly Rethiag his Deon hoard of AEQUALITT<l'a sueh tented
Garpal appetites cinco LINDATYCel '@ arsival. There seses te
bo were then cotncisesce (a Soaject Saviting LISUETEMY to
Eiestse on the exe ot the seat day after invitieg tke Soviste,
Kote alma that thens too testa were Sithic tines woukd of
e8tb other altar Aloe at trees Stestag
the Sovtat goats z: te the firm? aud
Secwpted at the les: ats Yor the second they acsepted. and

bay
tea declined at the leat aiaute. Bubjest's euvieuws aad tmmwdiate
doterest 4” LIRUETIC=} Ais fooling ber

6 ths Bovict coutens, a
out regarding pagsttic intereet in Soviots, attenpting te
introduce ase to Boviocs and saviting bor to to firut NYiecata" o
all githant meutiouius s word te tae Statiea = ie inerplieabie
for an agent sho to tr; . All of ths abows 19
@evious and evercceplicated,

{uy to produce.
fndtostive of the slaagien! KGB bang.
tha Soviets coniag or rot
ve, is both of witch ADULT.)

230. Concerning tae Unseg of
ESRing to the ftoacan aoies ate

1 tbat eke eet and bot her fret
BYied cuaversation asin ang AATY<1 th Echject's stare ca the

figurad, LIRCETIGs1
Svearus Of 13 Bepteater, ts Say after ANCUALITT<1 e¢ al
Saacaiicd wat at the last Binate,

32. From ail e¢ the
9 cas Grly comelude thst
sontrol., Othar thaa brea!
Ras tbo optioas sf, trrt

adore and fron Ranice's dencesecnt
Ssbject to maser pore form of i

Sig eoatact with Sunject the Btatian

ws ty break bin erie ase bin de an
Sasreesive sansex asatmst the EGS. TAs Statios has po tsterest_<_
is _eoatianing ehis-rsee 10 ita prepcak Gera. hse first atep

the Siition augresis a ost PSSTiRL emeaduation

+ So eeu havo 2
muaSer of Gwstiens to pat to Sudlecst ehich sould
provides & waleable tiny Per isterrogation wtito ears iiag
Ciier sensta. Therefora, is RELICS CPrre8ye

77 Septenber co

Eave. nesussin paused. Pes RSPR -BIST RG aT

list oo 3 Yay
Slees setiner
Sas Gill umtvabtedly hecens

basia te hastie. ieta Bebrsct amd LIRUSTIC=},
Syete An? tgiioh sad chy intorrogatii

Se

i
|
i
|

o



a Re paragrapd 4 adorei

CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH

Geeglitated tho Btation winld appreciate Hesdeuattors oupport
‘do Wnts sattor, Headquarters oplaioca and suggestions on aay

of. the above, but particularly om tho future boodling of
C006 : a

au _ fee “ 7

$2, LINUSTIC=1 woo te preséating cortats probleus of har
ova -io wory much Lavo} with this’ case. Vo ore preparing 8 -

88.) ‘Prabentttod titer separate cover afe contact reports
for 31 ‘August, 0 Septesbor and ‘21 eptember 1968. Previous - :
mot wore forvaited im: BiA-309014, 1 Beptenber 1966,

According to Bubject ARQUALITY=1 did not moation LIRGUSING
by nano, | AEQUALITY=1 sated for tnforeatioa on all the tendate -
oho would be moving into the building being built by the man oar
(bere fol Lows “LIMOUSINE 'S eatiosality. and:make and color. of car).

for/Gillavd C, CURTIG



“280° te

4 UG 1966:

“Federal Buresu of. Investigation
Attention Hr. 6. J. Papich

yRoM® 1 Deputy Director for Plana’

suamcr ¢ Visitars to.the Soviet ikbassy, Mexico City

2, A oaneitive ani relisble cource reported that = Mexican
ooking couple entared the soviet Enbasuy on 5 July at 1155 howe
and departed ab 1210 boure, Timy vere driving a yelloy 1964
Chevrolet with enmessee tage EJ-2090 froa xeliinn County:
Cogs vere green on vhite with no year vioiblo.

‘Tho

2. Further isvestigation revealed that these plates were tooued

3 Apeih 1966 for usa on a 1964 Chevrolet atation vagon to Kio Marte
palo net ulin ‘There was no strect ediress on

3. The Tameseee motor vehicle operator Meonsing authority
identified her rare fully as Moria Elena SALIRAS-iingena, white,
femnle, born 17 Dececber 1936. She ie 5 feet tall, voighs 120 Ibs
and ic. teschsr by profession. She does not have a currently valid
drivers license, apparently having failed to rensy
in 1963. Her addread at that tine vas 1512 Gresnland, Murfreesbaro,
Gannessee vith an earlier address noted es 415 E. Lytle strest,

Murfreecbcro. $e cas also pointed cut that ho bas tvico, over epproxi-

mate*lact-ftve yearo, had a duplieste license issusd to her upon her
statenent that tte original had been lost. ;

3. he fileo of this Gffice comtainsé no information on BALIEAS.

4. kis infornstion has been mada availble to your Mexico City
representative, ani ray not be disseminated utaide your Bureau
without prier approval of thie Office. i

CSC1-316/03816-66

tha ons issued lost



Ord b2° FBT 6-4/6)
Ey RI ~(50-6-7!
= CI/LIA

ce + CI/REA

ce = CI/IGG

ce = 6B/0/48

ce - Hil/1/YEXICO

ee = WH/1/Chrono

ce = WI/PO/A

Coordinated with:

sp/o/vA__

wE/cecurity,



Je™cnief, Wit Division

Ss LI EMPTY/LILYRIC™ doerereni
Visitors to the Soviet Embassy, Metco city

RRMA RUNES

Reference og MEXE 7841, 8 July 1966

ActionRequired - :-° FYI"

Ageueéd:3. April. 1966 for.use; ona 1964 Chevrolet station wagon to Mise
. Maric E SALINAS ‘of Athens, Tennessee: There was no atreet address
on ‘record. foes soa oy H : Pate

Tennessee license plates J-2990 from MeMian County, were

2. ‘The Tennessee motor yehicle, operator “14eensing authority
jdentified her more’fully ag Maria Elena #SALINAS-Magana,, white, :
female, born ‘17December 1936. ‘She is five feet, tall, weighs 120 bs
\ndia a teacher by profession. She. does not havea currently. valid

drivers, license, apparently having failed to renew the one’ issued
jast in 1963, «Her address at that time was 1511 Greenland, Murfress—
boro, Tennessee, with an earlter address noted at 415.B, Lytle Street,
Murfreesboro. It was also pointed out that she has twice,
approximate Inst-five years, nad a duplicate license issued to her

upon her’ statenent that the original had been lost.

3. There were no Headquarters ‘traces on SALINAS.

4, This information ig being passed to LNERGO.
22

Distribution:
2 - COS, Mexico City

.: Loaner
50-6 N/E

T SPATcH SYMDL AND NUMER : or Aue Bes
HMMWV=14752. i 26-July 1966

sr CRE

eat

GRORS REFEREE 10.

HOW $3 use pnevsous aainiay



Sates noes . se fei i :

SECRET 2800052 CITE MEXICO. CITY 7841

gut5:.52282

DIRECTOR

KUDESK
Le PER LILYRIC MEXICAN LOOKING COUPLE ENTERED

SOVIET EMBASSY 5 JULY AT 1155 HOURS, LEFT AT 1210 HOURS.

WERE DRIVING YELLOW 1964 CHEVROLET W
TAGS EJ 299% FROM MC_MINN COUNTY. TAG

ITH TENNESSEE

S GREEN ON

WHITE, NO YEAR VISIBLE.
2. ADVISING LOCAL ODENVY, POUCHING PHOTOS.

SECRET :
Bt e j i
tuk
mee E- SAAS
et ark Se He Clay, Mt ;
a h “naps rio tee
SENT DeMetave + Eset: i
To wea! IPdeet be 4 ae

oe nine | ’
i e se-0N fe ba :



eee : RE oes hts eee
: 2.) torn ves ve CUSStFizD. MESSAGE
: quassine to.
Seder 19 Fe,
tae bs0l ner:

Tae

aes WR Shes

.
}
|

SECRET 0618312 CITE MEXICO CITY 7533

DIRECTOR : Bun 66 631733

REDCOAT LIEMPTY LIMOUSINE ft
1, AFTERNOON 26 MAY LILYRIC AND LIMITED OBSERVED VIKTOR V.

KALYGIN, EMBASSY ADMIN OFFICER, EXIT EMBASSY WITH MOVIE CAMERA.

KALYGIN TOOK POSITICN DIRECTLY ACROSS STFLET FROM LILYRIC AND 7

LINITED AND PANNED AREA WHICH INCLUDED PRESENT LILYRIC, LIMITED 3

AND NEW LILYRIC BASE HOUSES WHICH LATTER CWNED AND BEING }

CONSTRUCTED BY LIMOUSINE, |
2.° CAMERA APPEARS TO 8E 8 MM SANKYO 4UTO-4X WITH F/1.7 Zoom :

LENS FROM 7-5 TO 3G NM. THIS CAMERA PRCBABLY-WOULD NOT GIVE

CLEAR DETAIL OF SASE HOUSE AREA.

SECRET

BT



chie Es. wit Sixiston
RE coh /ucMPHOvE/ sae can_fuia Using Soeles ebay —————

ACTON RQUELD ATR

REFS: vA.
B. MEXT.4248, 26 July 1965

nat 13915, 24 August 1965 =

Attached for Station's information are two DBB's -.-

: giving the- tesults of ain’ FBI investigation to deternine

“the owner of subject automobile,

Ernest A. LUSBY

pada ae (2)
B 27004, 2 November 1965
BBB 26839; 27 October 1965

Distribution:
0&1 - Cos,

Mexico City, w/atts h/w
10 November 1965

: mery cb!
: as 4 26

CROSS REVERENCE TO

Src Sa aE aay a
\ :

UMMW=14 12, 123 i a

T
|
i
T TenSHCATON [aentmvers
i
|

RI ee
Chrono

Tete 53. use pngvous tonen


MESSAGE FORM C5 ROY Oj ReTuEN to manic Oru ap
ForAu cores De

Weg 4 MEXICO CITY

Fiaw: DIRECTOR

MEXT : IMFO

ES RGR

40033
‘Bp OF

REDCOAT LCIMPROVE .
REF: MEXI 4604 (IN 43039) ®

TRACE RESULTS SENT BY HMMN-13915 POUCH 30 AUGUST,
OWNER IS CARMEN NUNEZ GODOY OF SAN ANTONIO, NO’ HQS
TRACES, act .

END OF MESSAGE *

‘Pls advise (regarding Hqs traces on owner of car w/Texas
plates whose driver visited SovEmb,)

Adan :
ief, WH. :

evonpinating oFriceas

SECRET eeee

wi
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PRONIBITED., bactinoeteal

AuTaeericarina |
orricen

AELEASING OFFICER



s
WE.C.R E13 4e!

55)
pir cite(mext 4604

reccoat ginprove-~

3h Res65 49038

quested array ta an aay tet A Boe cae Vsti e

REF MEXT 4243

PLS ADVISE.
SECRET &* as
Cuelins Mens,

CFN 3122552 4634 4248 PLS ADVISE

BT



LGLMPROVE LILYAIC/Amorican Auto Visiting
Soylot fabsiwy,-Moxtco-City——

IMDS
JOG. MICRO! SER.

(APR 1874 :

RGCROEILMED | |

: “ac REQ: FYI
;MEXI 4248, 26 July 1965

a

“3. Gema’ Licende' plate JU-3407"ia' a ised%piat ‘agei gned «

i1985'Lincoin -4-door sedan_owned: by Carmen*NUNEZ Godoy Yu- 346!
Lp tecth Maia. San Antonlo, Roxaprsecsa nonoasgate YS

a 2 credit Bureau and Police Dopartaont checks were
negative.

| 3. Headquarters indices wore reviewed in the namo of
NUNEZ and GODOY.. There wore soveral references, but unfortunately
Rone were identifiable. KUSODA indices were also negativo.

Ernest A. LUSBY

PRE veh
prea Res nee? “tp

qyeat 400)
NES 3/6 b>

30a 6 cent ieee
pent —

Distribetion:
0 & 1 - COS, Mexico City

‘GAOSS REFERENCE TO) [ omparen sack wo Noman

cea C3 cose
IgMW-13915

LASS CATION

ESE

sro |2¥ia &.

0S /oSD. | 22 i : sis

;

TS" $2 use onsuaws coon



| 7

19 August 196:

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, WH/L

ATTENTION. yo Jane Zerance.
SUBJECT — : Identification. of License Tag. ©. ‘ :

:
{ 1; “Attached per your request is an Office of
Security Feport concerning the idontity of the holder
of Texas license JU-3407.

2 No further action is-being taken in this

riatter by the Office of Sccurity and there is no record

of the licenso holder, Carmen NUNEZ (GODOY), in the
indices of tho Office of Security:

AC/Wil/Security

Attachment:
fs

ect | anim IS SUM al

F
'
}
:


OFFICE OF SECURITY

Support Division

REPORT
, OF
INVESTIGATION

CONSISTING OF
1. REPORTS

SECRET
2


eT ac iam

ase ae SECRET | en 1965

GENERAL? i

At San’ Antonio, Texaas

On § Ausuat 1965 wre, Xathleen ACHILLES, Texas Departnent
of Public Safety, Motor Vehlele Division, Austin, Texas, was
telephonically contacted. She checked. the recurds and advised
Texas license plate. JU-307 1s a 196)’ plate assiied toa 1965
{incoln'li-door sedan owed by Carmen Nunes GODOY, 1123 North
Main, Sen -Antaio, Texas. .

‘On6 August 1965 George ZBFEDA, Credit Bureau, 302 West
Market Street, checked the récords in the name of Carman Nimes

GODOY with’negative results.

On & August 1965 the records of the San Antonio Police
Department and Bexer County Sheriffts-Office were checked in
above name with nee results.

EoDsefd

SECRET

ale

is cor.

i



rears ey

BECRET .

Division

Asierican Auto Vieiting Russian Embassy

RETON OURED - RUTRINCES
ac REQ: FYE... z
‘REP: MBXI ‘3757, 10° June 1965

pra

Ly fexas License tag LU.1796. was ase
1963 -Ford Convertible ‘Thunderbird owned by

, Hidntgo, Texas, second-a

ard, Jos ‘Angeles,Caltfornia.. We wo!

1965" plates ‘isstied to private autos conta:

stated ho’ was introduced to Subject about
party in Reynosa; Mexico. le was told tha
Fon-of aiwenlthy family living in Mexico C:
yergations with PEDRERO, the source learne
returned from Europe, that. he, lived in Mex:
had ‘a home in California. ‘SHe described Sul
hie early twenties, a little spoiled, but
to be. duthentic.s.-At the time of ‘this mect.
just ‘purchased a few, fully-equipped Thund
Motor Sales, Box 340, McAllon.

3. “Police and credit checks (Texas a!
S negative.

4. Headquarters traces were negative

Er

Distribution:

Ape
0 & 1 -COS, Mexico City

air Y sigumants :

ignéd jn’ 1964 to
Ma rio! ®PEDRERO, ° -

ted as,8462 Sunset
re told that al

n three: letters (no

vowels) .and from two to three numbers. gy. nudie’
: po sonra a oh

2.° A member of the credit bureau in McAllen, Texas,

2 years:ago at a

¢ Subject was the
ity. During’ con-

d that he had just
ico City -and also
bjyect as being in

a person who appeared
ing, Subject had
ierbird from Boggus

nd California) were
Rogoved apap Pragest WOLKE
. CS Casa teteut sone S79,
Jon 8 7F-S7 SESH _
Boxt_237 Polat =
‘nest A. LUSBY

Gress ereeence 10 eaten Severe HO MUMELR

i HMMW 13898

17 August 1965

Taras icaTion

BSECRET

Ths snes

5$0-6-74/6

william

oe  SPATCH

Broe



ots

19 July:1965.”

“ Chief, WH/l

ATTENTION

Jane Zerance

Identification of Auto Licensé Tags aett

Pursuant to your recent request, there is attached

an Office of Security report containing information on

Val

pli ;

- Mullane,
Security
Attachment:
7 a/s
{
| 5 al

ferent
Taras

. : SF fH ’ a
au Lares WM | 13 BTY SECRET ; ire SC 6-245



—y. es. =

|| orice or SECURITY

Support Division

REPORT
OF
INVESTIGATION

CONSISTING OF
_ ___1_. REPORTS

SECRET

Po


eS ay cae 4

iceeeeeeee : “9-July 1965

SEfpre

V.:Ns-HIBBS, Texas Highway Department, Motor -
lehicle Divigion, Austin, Téxas;.vas telephonically.contacted: She checked
the records and. advised Texas License’ Tag LU=1796 was assigned in 1964 to a
1963 Ford: Convertitle Thunderbird owned, by Mario PEDRERO, Box 222,; Hidalgo,

“1 ‘Texas; second address listed: as 8462 Sunset. Boulevard, Jos Angeles, Califor

Maas cite tien holder of this automobile was Boggua Motor Sales, Box 340,
McAllen, Texas’,

Mrs. HIBBS stated all 1965 plates issued to private automobiles contain
three letters (no vowels) and from two to three numbers.

On 9 July 1963, Mr. J. H. WRIGHT, Credit Bureau in McAllen, which covers
Hidalgo, was telephonically contacted. He checked the records in the name
Of Mario PEDRERO with negative-results. Mr. WRIGHT then stated he was. intro-

» duced’ to Mario PEDRERO about two years ago at a party in Reynosa, Mexico.

Wes WRIGHT stated he wus told that this person is the son of a wealthy family
living in Mexico City. During conversattons with Mario PEDRERO, Nr. WRIGHT
learned that he had just returned from Europe, that he lived in Mexico Clty
and alsovhad.a fiome’ in California. Nr. WRIGHT described hin as being in his
carly twehties, a -lftele spoiled, but a person who appeared to be authentic.

At the time ‘of this meeting he had just ‘purchased a fully equipped new

Thunderbird from Boggus Motor Sales. ¢

Mr. WRIGHT stated he saw Mario PEDRERO again about six months ugo
when he came to McAllen to have his car repaired. When he comes to McAllen
he usually staya at the Casa de Palmas Hotel. Mr. WRIGHT could furnien no

additional ‘information,
On 9 July 1965, Officer KURTMAN, McAllen Police Department, was

telephonically contacted. He checked the records of the McAllen Police
Department ‘and Hidalgo County Sheriff's Office in che name of Maric PEDRERO

with negative results.

At Los Angeles, California:

On 13 July 1965, files of the Retail Merchants Credit Association
were checked by Agent Howard M. 0. and disclosed no record in the nane of

Marto PEDRERO.

On 13 July 1965, files of the Police Department and the Los Angeles
County Sheriff's Office disclosed no record when checked in the name of

Mario PEDRERO,

cid : if SECRET



6808, €F, exfors, pry éx/£e2

SCRE T 2622452 fe iar
; aan 26 Ju 65.0 | :
DIR CITE sExI 4248 ; 26 win 1920]
REDCOAT: LCIMPROVE ;
1. ACC LILYRIC UNK MAN VISITED SOVENS FROM is23 TI 1405 soe

HRS 22 JULY. ARRIVED AND DEPARTED IM 1963 BLACK LINCOLN TEXAS
LICENSE JU 3497, TAG NUMBERS WHITE GS ZLACK BacKckoyiD WHICH
PROB 1964 TaG.

2. LOCAL ODENVY ADVISED, FEAYEST HOS TRACE cYNER,
a SECRET

CFN 4248 ACC LILYRIC UNK SOVEN 1325 1425 HRS 22 GLY 1985
JU S407 BLACK 1984 Tas HES

BLACK LINCOLN TEXAS LICE
Harr eee ae

Naw



’

sxridoictyon pone tt |

ASSIFIED NESSACE forae comets 7 yo

. ne ao
Sy 1 pestaoy Oate.

SECRET 1021262
DIR CITE MEXI. 3757
REDCOAT

ACCORDING LILYRIC ON 2 JUN DRIVER NAVY BLU
LICENSE LU 1796 WHITE LETTERS ON BLACK VISITED shy EMBASSY

REQUEST IDENTITY OWNER.
SECRET F
CEN



SR REATON

e

|

i



“DISPATCH |

hexico City

2, The LIGALLA (S04 26/5), LILIRIC (5046-2578
assets under the Li : ‘
Joes tie Station wien te have the LIT! Project (50-6:7i) ‘rotan dow vith
serarate files. for ae of these operations? If ao Pesce 55 adviee: 7 ;

Headqurvers,

2, Unlese advised to the contrary by the Station, the LIDHIHO (S).6-25/6)
snd LIA (0-6-25/7) Operational fide will be rotted With’ ina Lares |?

i

+

i

#3 Octoder 1958 }
Histributions t
3 = Nemioo City :



Be

tas velizent wi

I, J heveby egnec ‘to poy the Use 5,

gipoj00 gesce for the property Located“at: | i

uate anoint, I ¥tL voyt:Gon (99;600 pesos) La’ cash

in two 1 inatailzents.: The firot instelleont of 45,000 pases VELL ba)

patd. on ths. beginning | of gonatretion of the tutlding. The ah equel

be paid on ecipletion of the cepativet fine

cofiteuction of the: now building to be erected on the. site in question

Will begin ismcdiately on completion of the demolition of the present: yo

ctreeture nad clearing of the sites

‘the belence of 60,000 pesos will be repatd within two (2) years of con-

he

pletién of the Wullding, Ae part -of thio payment, the opartacnt ¥l

is to occupy entire top dvelling floor will be! let rent-free to Jores
Eo tens WS eae 7

or such other parson ag the U. 8. Governzont
may desiguate for tuo (2) years et a calculated rent of 2,500 pesos

Juding ety water. The understanding covering this two year

monthly,

free rental will be negotiated by me vith the representative of the U. S.

Governnent and will be considered. part of this Memoranitua of dgreenent.

q@ho 4,600 pesoa remaining vill be paid in o luap cum nt the end of the
Laayhy Jere :
soco=d full yeer of occupancy of the apartment.

T further asrec, thet_I vill, on cozpletion of tho puilding, execute a rentol

dawn Ze

centrect vith in accordance vith the pertinent part of paragraph oe

shove, This contract vill be accouyanied py an unwritten option fer

Payne

cv other person epproved vy the representative of the U. S. Govern~

ment to renew the rental contrect for such periods of tins as tho U.S.

Govarnsint asy see fit. Tho contract shall stipulate thet uny increasa in

rental vill not exccel the proportionate rete at which rentals have been

increased for the other apartments in the saxé building.
peer 77e
the

rsyrents mde to de or-ny representatives by

Sree rental pertod, vill be returned to the ropresentative of the

Govertinent, minus any such afpropriatoly pro-rated chansea. fcr Yuilds.

tvs end maintenance as vould noraslly fall to the responaibility

f the tonant.
of the t an

& ory ns £

: ; eee
creel Tete a / We 3



sa°that tf, Gui tho! geried of tite

y

hav tuitétns) I

mstica of the ne

42 endalc to



SXE 285 ; pee

VILL REscT To

ASGUSST Ha





7 so ieisogad
201-51203

6=99/3 fi
Biiijue oes:

WH g ea “eo efit sei, ez <afers ‘exec, ae RE
a eae ve fice
ees caer sae ; =
| WEXE ‘tO - : fae ert om
LILINK | 4 ;
wext-1487 CN 18155)* yes ne a
eR LIMESA AND LITALUS TO Lain 3 PENDING - se
5, LavESTECK-2, Luwnst-10,NiSIT nD
INCREASED RIS INTEREST In STATION'S

REF?
LAY TURN

SOR REC ake Licozy-

PLEASE

NEADQUAR’

LILYRIC, BICsy INDICATIONS OF

OPBRATIONS..
‘END OF YESSAGE

BH Comacat: estation plans turn over LITALUS ‘and LIMESA, ops to
LILINK. . e o



acta : Bias i or

ae Bat CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

Lge: ae

BT 88 SECRET.
MEXICO.CHT: |” :

aes
aa: "DIRECTOR, OTA

cr

© nro: FI/RI 2, S/e 2 aaa IEE at ea
pe imi ae cane pees
orn Wpa77 (out 73224) aren 28 FD 56 Roun
ove tee7y (our qyeet) _2272 28 FB 58 __ OE rey
F to mer cE pm

REY WEXE 502 (IN 28349)
PERTSSION GRANTED RENT STRICT BOUSE.

(ERD OF MESSAGS)

e oe coonpimatina osficeaa
eee

RELEASING OFFICER RotneMTiCATiwa OrricEe

IT IS FORBIDDEN TO MAKE.A COPY OF THIS MESSAGE ‘Copy No.



“wot Ff 2, 8/0 2

pare +27 FEBRUARY 1956

DIRECTOR’.
FROM : MEX{CO.CITY

a)

* ATION HH

TOs O1R CITES MEX)

REs DIR 46762 (OUT 79794) |

1. SUSU HOUSE NOF BEING VACATED. RENT APPROX 600 PESOS PER
wONTH, MOVING EXPENSES APPROX 1,00 PFSOS.
i 2. AT PRESENT STATION NOT CERTAIN CLEARED PERSON WILL BE
AVAILABLE TO OCCUPY THIS BASE,
END OF WESSAGE

\a

SECRET \

AT 1S FORBIDDEN TO. MAKE A COPY OF MESSAGE. Cony.No |

MEX! 502 (IN 26319) | -03497' 2A FEB 56- tN g@ —— ——— .

UR By ag tect aire Pct



Air “ cs Wiina<4160"

“Ghdet, WMD 2 7 = aie 20 February 1956:

Chief of station, Maxieo City

Operational
LIPSTICR/LILYRIC

References? fe NBKI 424 aa ie : Besta

Lh

Re

Be

‘appearances. . It is estinate

b) DIR. 44756
c) HEXT 454
4) DIR 45408

‘on 24 January 19S6, tho LICOCL run reported that LIPSTICK/LILYMIC wae avat lable,
LINCHPIN wae imodiately, contacted with inetrictions to investigate this
possibility, Prelininary investigation through the janitor rovealed that there
tas a front apartsont available wiich was ideally suited for our purposes.
LINCHPIN contacted the owner who atated that the apartment was not for rent since
his daughter vas goin; to move dato it, “The omer did offer LINCHPIN his :
daughter's old-asartzont which wag in the back of the buildings LINCHPIN
contacted the daughter acd found that hor apartaent wae not suited for our
purposes, and mentioned to her casually that sould ahe not take the front
apartment, he would be interested. She told LINCHPIN that she didn't really

“want it and would tell her father to rent it to LINCHPIN, Subsequent ly

LINCHPIN again ‘contacted ‘the owner ‘and was told that he could have the front
apartaent, : :

LINCHPIN has executed tho contract for one year for LILYPIC at $46.00 US por
ronth, He plane to nove from the pregent RAPPER baso by 5 Yebruury 1956 and
place his furniture-in storage for approxinately one week, “The furniture wid
‘be moved to the storage warehousp by one roving company and taken out of the
storage warehouse by another moving company. Although it ie realized that this
gerios of moves would not cover tne trail of the furniture to an experienced
Inveaticator, it will prevent. questions by neichbore who oso the furniture being
noved just one-hal! block and aleo prevent covents fron the soving man theme
sélvos who would’ sove the furniture this onsshalf block,

Since the RAPPER baso consisted of ‘oe bedrooa and the LILYRIC base contains
three bedreoris, and is cenerally larger in all respects, it will be nacessary to
purchase additional furniture to. aake LINCHPI'S's occupancy normal in all

d that the requisite axount of furniture needed for
this purpose, will not arsregate in excess of $500 US. Further, since this
apartment is rather large for ono oingle man, LINCHPIti'e brother ie being cleared,

CE Oe oe ek OR sR EE oe eteRh,. ioeam. erent

:
i
i
!
:
3
4

a

&



| - Ne ne ae ee

and, after cloarance, will nove in tho apartcent with LINCHPIN to serve as

‘pellef operator and “lend ¢over ‘to tho bases” ee ete

that LILTRIC will be kept-cowlotely coqartnnited froa uate

STICK operations, LIPSTICK 20 will act as. cut-out betwess the

Pit, and’ hag -boan Anatrycted that he te not, to nention this
PSTICK 20. dos:

pally used for photographie
3 alté:nately,but without any patter
ering schedule vill be worked out by the Case officer:

Lote comartaentation’ ir

‘the Station: instund-of beings sent’ to Janse 0
8 fig for LIVITRD, <Later, th: procosaing aay be done
7 ‘ohemical” laboratory’ inorder to take this load-off ‘the Statiou ‘personnel:
Anvolved, “‘LINCUPIN has a fairly well equippe “gheiaical. laboratory that, witha
few rodifications; could be used for the’ processing of the: filas and printde —
At prasent LINCHPIN hag a partner in this laboratory and it to. planned. that ‘the

partner will:bo cleared. |

is that by the alternative uso of this base with LIMITED

igne of photographic surveillance (possibly o

wore there ani locking for thom, will

3 the bast possible ie

6, This Statin, sincerely fee:
that mny of the outward o:
apparent to the Case ‘Officer knowing they
Qe reduced, The acquisition of this base, in a sonsay provide:
cover for the LIMITED baso by decroasing the use of: that bases

MSD/oik
18 February 1956

Distributions
B « Headquarters
2'+ Files i

Fn4-A—4160 i
2 February 1956 7
Page 2.



ee ER NESTE SURG

bank cee
JANUARY. 1956

‘RIGO crry

Ter °PXI

“RF: YX 434 (IN 17492)

OR. 1506. (out 6,507

16582. 34 JAN 56

Crir:

rR

FRIAR:

PUR ISSION GRAPTFD ARAIDON OL? RAPP'R PAS! I! VIEW ACQUISITION LILYRIC,

arucagine Orricen

'W AS FORBIDDEN TO MAXE A COPY OF THIS MESSAGE Cory No.

CooebwaAtnd ay
Pewee writ OC-SP/SH

COORDemaTina OFriceas

AUTHENTICATING OPF1GER



CABLE
RCE
AND RECORD SHEET

‘Acecasion No.

Esch comment chould
‘A ling should be drawn

bo numbered to correspond with number ia To column.
‘across sheet under each comment, | :

Officer: désigiations should bo used in To céluma,

Esch officer should initi

ial (check mark insufficient) before further routing.

Action desired or action taken should be indicated ia Comments column,
Routing shoot should always be returned to registry.

For officer designations

Bast 51-19

‘see separate sheet,

SECRET

ILYRIC

f
Dato Received SA.

i Z :

cgay



am
: DATE + Es Saal 1986

“yen: 234 (iN 17492) 01212 31 sa 6
TO: DIR
RE: DIR 44756 (OUT 63282 )

MEX! 424 (IN 15297)

4. LILYRIC CRYPTO ASSICIED HE" BASE
Br LINCHP Ty FUKMER

BY

2, LILYRIC RENTER /GCCUPANT RAPPER BASE. IF RAPPER BASE
RETAINED WILL BE COVERED BY LIPSTICK 12 COST OF, APROX. Us 8.

|

$4,000.00 FOR FURNITURE.
3. NE PREFER USING LILYRIC ALSO FOR RAPPER. IF HS
OQUECTS, DESIRE RETAIN LIPSTICK 42 O8 TEAM EVEN, THOUGH
OVER THC RAPTER, SINCE ISMOBILIZING HIM AT RAPSER HOT JUSTIFIED
: OW GROUNDS OF SECURITY AND YOULD FUTHER DEPLETE: TEAM.
: END OF MESSAGE i

CRET
“RK CORY OF THIS MESSAGE; Conv No.

IT IS FORBICDEN TO Mi


— =

2° MSKICO CITY
Dineen”

RRs XE 424 CIN 15297)

1, Gre) APARIMENT APSROVE

mo SCTL  crassimien MESSAGE
» ORG:

UNIT 1 YD

eit 1 2555

OATE. 5° 26 JANUARY 3956 ee
eee ste SE Saas
[18 2

clTe: DIR

. KEEP PRESENT RAPrSS BASS ALSO IF POSSIBLE.

2, WS PLANS FURTHER RAPPER EXPERTUENTS BUT. CANNOT SOTIMATE DATES AT

THIS TINE.

> COBRDINATED BY PHONE VITH

END OF MESSAGE

Opel

J.C! KING

sessing gots 9

eooroinarina oreicens

AUTHENTICATING OFFIGER
No

oe 1S FORS! IDDEN TO MAKE A COPY OF THIS MESSAGE


4S
“24 JAN" 1956

DIRECTOR.
1c0

NEKI 424 (, 02221 25 JAN 96

To: DIR cite: vex!

SRE: wun 2807
4.) APT AVAILABLE DIRECTLY AGROSS STREET FROM LIMERICK WHICH
OFFERS. EXCELLENT RAPPER AND LIMITED POSSIBILITIES. nent 52 PER
MONTH.
2. - PLAN REQUEST LINCHPIN! WOVE FROM PRESENT RAPPER BASE IF
WQS STAFF CONCERNED HAS NO OBJECTION. HAT ARE FUTURE PLANS FO

3. NEW BASE WILL INCREASE SECURITY LIMITED SINCE WILL OPERATE 4

“

ALTERNATIVELY WITH LINITED.
4, REQUEST CASLE APPROVAL.
END OF MESSAGE

IT 1S FORBIDDEN TO M ‘% COPY OF THIS MESSAGE apy No.



TO QE PLACED IN THE FR

RevaiN THEREIN AS AL



‘secret :

(hes Vile tod

CASE FILE REQUEST

wees

100M NO.

(COMPONENT

ToNOING

THHONE
Doras

ENON REQUESTED

‘OPEN FiL8 -
AS SHDICATED,

AMEND FILE.
AS INDICATED:

aESTRICT Fue.
10 (DEK.

a COUNTRY AND NUMDER Wr CATEGORY AND NUMEER

Mexies 80

PERMANENT CHARGCOUT
J 10 (0B.

PELPARE FILE FOLDERS.
‘AUD SEND 10 REQUESTER,

1B COMMENTS: (inakede bral dercnoten of lle or eretecd

Toone

= "APPROVAL

“THis REQUEST SATISFIES RECORDS REOU!

TRE

BEQUEST APPROVED,

EFFECTIVE OATE

Fome MO B19. v3
Fee. "3¢ 812

ci Mas geet 8 OER

RTS Tas


=] -alanatysis secnoa : a
SE ee
+H

‘A CATEGORY AND NUMER

Mexico . 50 Operat sonal 6-74.

K COMMENTS: (acede tri Gemnaven @ Bi oy poleed
i

2. COUNTRY AND UMaER

technical basehouse

LILYRIC used to fall under the LIPS;
have RI file number [0=f=25/8

© Foner ust One,

Then rice
aS toa,

aismicr eae

Sorton.

10 10884). TE

PERMANENT CHARGEOUT
TO (DESK),

PREPARE
AND SEND 10 REQUESTER,

FILE FOLDERS

K Project and used to

oy

7 ENDCHEUET
Toi REOUEST SATISFIES BECOaDS BOUREMENTS,

tQUEST AppicvED

wnoine

