# 104-10128-10229

## Page 1

104-10128-10229

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

WASHINGTON, D.J. 20505

25 7222÷

15 DEC 1975

The Honorable Frank Church

Chairman

Salect Committee to Study Governmental

Operations with ilespect to Intelligence

Activities

United States Senate

Washiagtoa, D. C. 20510

Dear Ms. Chairman:

We have irformation Irom a relizble source that the Second

Secretary of the Cuban Mission to the United Nations is in Washingtos

on the basis of special instructions from Premier Fidel Castro to

contact "friends of Cuba.: This individual has said that he is in

search of sventy names withheld from the repoit on assassinations.

Xin is occicino ius anyone uno has ceo the arant regnat as angere

To lerois what rames were deleted. He is offering $25, 000 fos each

name aid says the person who comes up with the names would also

get a statue aracted in Havana. He hinted he has tentatively icentified

ten unpublished gaines and orly needs ten more. This information has

been passed to the FBI.

I would bope in vies; of this inforration that you will take all

appropriate measures to ensure that deletud names do not fall into the

hands of the Cubans.

Sincerely,

W. E. Colb:

Director

81399? 92N2283

18008.4

SEX: E CED. 11. E9921723538

Date imee sible to Determine

Prices cale if ura?)

Distribution:

Orig - addressee

1 - DCI

1 - DUCI

1 - C/Rev Strif

1 - DDO Reg

I - C/FR

1- SA/DDO

1- WINT

1580199

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

---

## Page 2

Names to be ictained

in SSC Report

William Harvoy - Lumumba/Castro

_Sidney Gottlicb - Castro/Lumumba

- Robert Mahou - Castro

Johnny Roselli - Castro

Santos Trafficante - Castig:

General Valenzyela - Chile Schneider

Concral Viaus - Chile/Schneide!

Henry Deanborn - Trujillo

FLou Cóndin - Diem

"Bronson Tweedy - Lumumba

IJ. C. King - Castro "!

william

Names to be deleted

from SSC Report

1/COS Saigon during

P's pop, on are pry real

• Diem coup

COS Ciudad Trujilio)

David Phillips (Chief Chile Task

• Foice) Schnoider

Lano, varona • Castr

Juan Orta - Castro

Nestor Sanchez - Castro

COS Icopoldville/Kinsha

"Hedgman)

Colonel Wimert (MA Santlago Chile)

• Justin O'Donnell (to show as Michael

• J, Mulroney) Iumumba

Executivé Action/ Cast:

Samuel Halpern • Castro

1.

Edward Guns - Castro

Castro

Trujillo

Othor Chilean officers

6/0V

---

