# 104-10431-10102

## Page 1

1104-10431-10102

UNCLASSIGIED

EI GEOME

B

CONFIDENTIAL

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

LO SECRET

FROM:

T/BC

10 20 19S

o on so is

CREA

1413

11220

1918408

olumn after each

coPy

communication

in Washington

Anoche copy is being held

HOLE BO

AnY reply

Should be

rocessing by IP is to

be

determined by

coordination with E/BC

dist

required prior to any

dissemination of this

incormation outside the DDO.

NB:

Richard A. SPRAGUE, Chief

Counsel and Director of HSCA, saw

a copy of attached document.

See

his attached letter to sergy

CZORNONOH 04 December 1976.

RBH

FORM

610 USE

I SECRETS

CONFIDENTIAL MA MUSE TONI

INTERNAL

EL UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 2

13-00000

CONFIDENTIAL

Our ref:

Dear Art,

30 March 1978

Please find attached correspondence

received from one Sergyj CZORNONOH who

I have sent copies of these letters

to the FBI and to l

Mr

Enc.

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 3

13-00000

S'ERGYJ CZORNONOH

1106-11TH STREET

SACRAMENTO CALIFORNiA

95814

RETURN REGEIPT

REQUESTED

REGISTERED

ND.251254

10

1918

STATE CAPT

1918

TRATE CED

TO BRiTiSH EMBASSY

3100 MASSACHUSET-IS AVE, N.W.

WASHINGTON, D.C;

201-289248

---

## Page 4

13-00000

SERGYI CZORNONOH

1106-11TH STREET,

SACRAMENTO, CALiFORNiA, 95814

MARCH 15,1978

TO BRiTiSH AMBASSADOR

BRITISH EMBASSY

3100 MASSACHUSETTS AVE, N.W.

WASHiNGTON, D.C.

DEAR SiR.

¿ WROTE LETTER ON FEBRUARY 15, 1978

10 MK. JAMES CALLAGHAN

DRiME MiNISTER

¡ENCLOSED REGISTERED MAIL NO. 251067.

ON JULY 18, 1963 ; WAS iN LONDON ENGLAND

AT THE AIRPORT iMMiGRATiON OFFiCER NO, 175

HOUSE ARREST,

SECRET SERViCE BROUGHT ME STEAK DiNNEN

BROUGHT

WHAT DiD YoU HEARD iN VIENNA

¡SAiD i HAVE HEARD THAT ONE AMERICAN

AMERICA

THIS MAN HE PREpARiNG TO KiLL

TO ASSASSiNATE PRESiDENT JOHN F KENNEDY,

MR. SMITH

POLiCE OFFICER ASKED ME

DO YOU KNOW HIS NAME,

¡SAiD HiS NAME

START ON "O'

HiS NAME

WAS PUBLiSHED

ONE TiME iN NEWS PApER iN WASHiNGTON

MR,

POSTEASY TO FiND:

_SMITH. POLITE OFFICER SAID

---

## Page 5

13-00000

I DO SEARCHiNG FOR THiS FiLE iN BA

POLiCE BRiTiSH iNTELLiGENCE AND

iMMIGRATION,

HELO TO FIND•

MASKING YOUR EMBASS

GOVERNMENT TO FORWARD

My RECORL

1.

1i?

My. iNCoMiNG MAiL iS CONTROL BY

FIBI. AGENTS SOME OF THE MAiL'

GRY INFORMOTON ANTO MERE SEL

PESPECTFULLY

125. PASSPORT NO, DO 27000

is

---

## Page 6

13-00000

Sergyj Gzornonoh

Regis Hotel

1106 11th Street

Sacramento, CA 95814

600818.06

CITY MANAGERS

ABOUT. HUMAN RIGIFTS

BRiTISH EMBASSY

February 6, 1978

MI. John M. Price

District Attorney

Sacramento, California

Dear MI. Price:

This is a retyped letter.

I viaited Mi. Ferry

, Deputy Dietrict

Attorney, on August 16, 1977.

I told in the

office that F.B.I. agente and

Secret Service

use police department to harass me.. Police department do

supply pencil of anesthesia gas to the manager of the building I live.

The

manager do or use certain people, to freeze me by anesthesia gas - then push

drugag

poison in my mouth

to torture me - to take my

aleep away • or bleed

by rectal and they use many other chemicale to brainwash'me to use me in

political assassination which I refused. On January 20, 1976 in Sacramento on

8th and I Streets, man cane to me from police or poat office, U.S. Department

of Justice and freeze me by gas and told me to take gun, pistol and we will

tell you where

to go to shoot - to kill - Mr. Sargent Shriver.

I refused.

Manager, Mr. Sisel, of Marshall Hotel, call on the man to tell me this on

the street.

In February 1976, police

intelligence told me that assassination

will not happen here.

How about to move to Maryland atate.

In this letter I ask you to get report from DI. Frederick S. Baker, M.D.

- colon and rectal surgery on January

31, 1978.

His phone • 452-4095.

I do

bleed today very much and I am weak,

In this letter I ask you to give re-

strain order or respond to me

what could be done..

The right wing in America

made record to use me in

assassination. I refuse. I am human and I like tr

be treated as human.

Police put frame up on me - just to take advantages oi

mee

robice use lie, police use mental case to take advantages on me and tel

me that right wing do use such people like me.

To prove I enclose

copy mid-

night June 14,

1976. Also I enclose copy letter I sent. to Mr. led Sheedy,

Supervisor, on January 26, 1978 and copy of hia reply to me.

Please respond to me.: Thank you.

Vory truly youre

Ґегдуі сзочноної

Sergyj Czornonoh

Mr. Sargent Shriver was run for Preaident in 1976.

---

## Page 7

13-00000

Legal Center

For The Disabled

1722 J STREET, SUITE 19 • SACRAMENTO, CA 95814

Telephone: 4464851

March 2, 1978

'is tonis

Sergyj Czornonoh

1106

11th Street

Sacranento, CA 95814

Dear Mr. Czornonoh:

This is to acknowledge receipt of your letter regarding

difficulties you have encountered with the police and the

FBI.

In the event that there is legal action taken by the police

or the FBI to institutionalize you this office will provide

you with legal representation.

If you have any further legal problems please contact this

office.

Sincerely,

Resue Kay

LESLIE KAY

Paralegal

CATHERINE HUGHES

Staff Attorney

LK: ab

REGISTERED NO. 2

Value

s No

Specto

Return

Receipt

Handling S

Restricted

Charge

Delivery

Postage

POSTMASTER (By)

AIRMALL

STATE

MAILING OFFICE

2.5217

--1106-

---

## Page 8

13-00000

D027000

xterase

721,00

99223.

dons

and sestridtion

SOFiA BULGARIA

negireneCanal

SOFIA, BUGGARAR

MRa 49 AUG. 15-1963

•Clhnl.

llround zlablein

VICE CONSUL OEZUE, UNTE STATES OF AMERICÀ

IMAL E NAIZ SERVICE

NEW YORK. N. Y.

ADMITTEO

AUG 17 KB1 p:

1963

00-2-345

MI•

Sergyj

Czornonoh

5

---

## Page 9

13-00000

1P10

copy. 10

BRiTISH AMBASSHOU"

Sergyj Czornonoh

1106 - 1lth Street

• Sacramento, California 95814

To Russian Ambassador

Embassy of U.S.S.R.

1125 - 16th Street

This is retyped letter from hand written

Washington, Do Go i

Dear Sir:

Mr. Hasilev .Consul gave me order to transmit thie information to U. S. Government,

on August 9, 1963 in Sofia, Bulgaria.

'Nt. Wasilev, Consul of Embassy of U.S.S.R.,

gave me this information about Mr. lee Harvey Oswald on August 14, 1963.

Besera Asenova, girl friend of Rusaian Consul came to my room and repeated that

Mr. Lee Harvey Oswald le assassin.

He will kill President Kennedy.

On August 15, 1963 in Sofia, Bulgaria, at the airport in embassy cat, I told to

Mr. Blackshire, American Vice Consul,

that Mr. Lee Harvey Oswald is assissin.

He has a weapon or has ordered one.

Mr. Blackshire said It seems like he will

kill someone•

I said that Mr. Lee H. Oswald is preparing to kill President

of the United States, John F. Kennedy.

Mr. Blackshire said where will it happen.

I said they (right wing) will invite President, criticize him in the newspaper,

then kill him.

MI. Blackshire told me he will give the telegram to Department

of State and he gave me the address where to report.

At 9 aom. On Auguet 19, 1963 in Washington, D. C., I went to see (Mr. Kippingan)

Director of Special Counselor Service Department of State at 1901 Pennsylvania

Avenue-11th floor.

I told the Director that I have information about President

The Director said do not mention name of President Kennedy, only

respond to the questione. •The Director said tell us what will happen to Mr.

Lee Harvey Oswald then.

I said Mro Lee H. Oswald will be killed after kill

Kennedy. I said I will take the truth drug to tell the truth. Director tell

us who else get killed in this country. I said as I heard, that DI. Martin

Luther King, Jr. will be killed.

Who will kill Dr. King,

JI. Negro leader?

I said a man who is in prison at thia time.

MI. James Earl Ray was in prison

Director asked where assassination will happen.

I said in Dallas,

Director said if someone gave thie information here I would expel the

Director did call on F.B.I. agents after F.B.I. use anesthesia gas to

freeze me to drub me to keep amnesia.

I told Director Department of

State that MI. Lee Harvey Oswald have a weapon.

Go see him.. Director told me you too can have weapon--so what if Oswald got

Sincerely,

UoS. Passport 6027000

U.S House of Representatives

Select Committee on Assassinations told me to write letter to Embaesy in early 1977.

feryj (ornon:

3/15/78

---

## Page 10

13-00000

Heimes 51F6,"

Sergyj raprnonoh

1106 jIth Stront

Mocramento, dA 99014

Regenterad lotter No, 351254

March 15, 1978

Retyped letter from handwritter

of March 15, 1978, which I seit

To British Ambessador

British Embassy

3100 Magsachusetts Ave., Now.

Washington, D.C.

Phone 462-1340

Denr Sir:

I wrote letter on February 15, 1978, to Mr. James Callaghan, Prime

Minister.. I enclosed registerd meil No. 251067.

On July 18, 1963, I was in London, England at the airport.

Immigration

officer ho 175 = 1 hed no visa - immigration place me

under house arrest.

MI. Smith in police uniform, secret service,

bought me

steak dinner and

He asked me what the

Embassy of U.S.S.R.

What did you heard in Vienno, Austria.

I said I have heard that one

Amertenn Defector (Mr. Lee Harvey Oswald) to Russia and he returned

United Sentes

of America.

This man he preparing to kill - to assassinate

President John F. Kennedy.

Mr. Smith, police officer, asked me do you know his name.

I said his

nome start on "0".

was published

in newspaper in Wash

ington Post.

Mr. Smith, police officer, said it easy to find.

I do searching. for this file In British police, British Intelligence

and British immigration. I asking your Embassy to help to find the truth

and I ask your government to forward my record of July 18, 1963, to

President Jimmy Corter and Senntor Doniel K. Inouye, Chairmen U.S. Senate

Sclect Committec on Intelligence.

I enclose his copy letter to me.

I enclose you copy letter I sent on February 17, 1978 to Russian Ambassador.

Your justice alwaye will be ippreciated.

My Incoming mell le control

by the F.B.I. agents.

Some of the mail I don't get. Not forward to me.

F.B.I. suppress me my information and torture me by druge. 27 years

anesthesia gas and freeze me - push drug in my mouth.

My U.S. passport No. D027000.

Respectfully yours,

REGISTEREO Ng 25/254

$

Deliven

$

R

"Pet

$ 212

Return

Receipt

$ 25

H.r:8ing

Charge

$

Restricted

Delivery

$

Postage

524

( POSTMASTER (By)

AIRMAIL

POSTMARK OF

SALIE,

SMA)

Sergyj Czornonoh

Sergyi Czornonoh

MARCH 20,1976

---

## Page 11

13-00000

RooM

316

1106-11 TH STREET

SACRAMENTO, CALiFORNiA

958/4

11979,

TO BRiTISH EMBASSY

3100 MASSACHUSETTS AVE.

N.W.

WASHINGTON, D. 6.

---

## Page 12

13-00000

Inited States Senate

850 CAPITOL MALL

SACRAMENTO, CALIFORNIA 95814

OFFICIAL BUSINESS

316

Silettag arcana

1978

"U.S.S.

Sergyj Czornonoh

1106 -Lyth Streeto

Room 316

Sacramento, CA 95814

---

