104-10412-10008)

SECRET/NO FOREIGN DISSEM |

PDSTORAGE
SBSR.. 3/

C | INFORMATION REPORT

THE FOLLOWING REPORT CONTAINS INFORMATION DERIVED FROM A SENSITIVE
SOURCE AND REQUIRES SPECIAL HANDLING. IT MAY BE SHOWN ONLY TO
PERSONS WITH A NEED TO KNOW AND MAY NOT RECEIVE GENERAL DISTRIBUTION
WITHIN RECIPIENT OFFICES. FURTHER DISSEMINATION OF THIS INFORMATION

MUST BE COORDINATED WITH THE ORIGINATING OFFICE.

DISTRIBUTION:

SEORET/NO FOREIGN DISSEM 9G) G/B EO

2, IMPDET Cl, BY: 0086a7

108%, B1B7 estricns . (13-20-40)


13-00000

SECRET/NO FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTERINTELLIGENCE INFORMATION REPORT

PDSTORAGE
SBSR- 2031 eS
rar

co

Country: USSR

Subject: Vladimir Sergeyevich KUZNETSOV
eB

DOL =: 1967

Source : A GRU Officer yet

Any dissemination of this information to Field Stations
or to officers not on the initial distribution must be
coordinated with SE/CI/X. As a general rule, PDSTORAGE
information is not releasable to foreign or domestic
liaison services or to any office outside the DDO.

As of October 1967, KUZNETSOV held the rank of Engineer-
Major and was assigned to the Third (Anglo-American) Directorate
at GRU Headquarters in Moscow. Sometime earlier in 1967,
KUZNETSOV attended the Military Diplomatic Academy.

COMMENTS:

1. KUZNETSOV is possibly identical with one Vladimir
KUZNETSOV who will be assigned to Brussels as a Soviet Trade
Representation employee sometime in the fall of 1976.

2. KUZNETSOV is not identical with Vladimir Sergeyevich
KUZNETSOV, 201-0900259, who was assigned to Djakarta as Counselor

[RECORD COP

WARNING NOTICE - SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

, 5 2 1970
Qkul- G029 3 Algot-
~ SECRET/NO FOREIGN D1SSEM Bol~ F368

oe 3933 £2, IKPDET CL. BY: 011340 ie



13-00000

SECRET/NO FOREIGN DISSEM

. COUNTERINTELLIGENCE INFORMATION REPORT

PDS

D:
SBS.

of the Soviet Embassy as of March 1972 and who, according to
PDLENIS, was the CPSU Representative in Indonesia,

3 September 1976

Distribution:
1 - C/SE/CI/X

1 - SE/CI/X ¢ »

1 C/SE/K/EU =r

1 - SE/BIO (Attn: Doreen)

1 - C/E/BNL/B

1 - C/CI/R&A (C/CI/RGA/O)

2 - IP/AN/SE for 201- t + F43610

201-0900259

E2 IMPDET CL BY 011340

SECRET/NO FOREIGN DISSEM
COUNTERINTELLIGENCE INFORMATION REPORT

Ao /- oH3 o/d

