# 104-10216-10084

## Page 1

104-10216-10084

DISPATCH NO. _ 1118-4-36812

CONFIDENTIAI

LASSIFICATIO!

TO

3 Chief, WHD

FROM : Chief of Station, Habana

5??

SUBJECT: COMRA- Liaison

sark- Yemoranda Furnished to the Babassy

DATE: 13 Jase 1057

References HNH-A-3662, 6 June 1957

Attached in suplicate are the following menoranda which were furnished

to the Embassy?

Mano No. 119, 6 June 1957 - Cubans in Costa Rica

Neno No. 150, 7 June 1957 - Conversation with Guillero EGLT

Meno No. 252, 12 June 1957 - Cuban Goverment Purchase of Vehicles

Palin 7. Trioser

Mellasa F. loreney

Attachsents

3 - Yenos in duplicate

Distribution:

3 = hashington w/atte

2 • Filea w/o att

13 Jano 7957

7

• 301

abes

AR 188, 51-28A

RI COPY

CONEEDIOUIAIL

19-2-4

---

## Page 2

14-00000

SECRET

Pira Chapta

& June 1357

Curans In Crata Rioa

The follovin.

Inforsation has loan race: red fra a Controlled Aaordean

bourgo in jon J-ae, Coota Ricat

intered osta klea dia la.a

lo Asant to costa lilee.

Mie se 10 resule of an areemat baLwoor

TARIS•nE LATISTA and Trigilln to racie du an ex'les fron the

inlirichials are nannin to move soon to

Mosloo in order to be soady to mro on Cute 15 and whoa cATIStA

bo, Ina to losple.

Evaluation Fe)

ado Loçal, drey, Naval, Ais attachda

Distribution:

2 = Chapin, Dabasay

1 - Legal and Servio Attachés 2 - Hashington 2 - Illos

Bouree: SANd 2615

6 Jana 1957

chi 201?

por

SECRET

19-2

- 4613/6157

---

## Page 3

Mr. Chapla

Attache

sis die

Dacilova

yo1?

Conversation tith Mallero N'LT

Pons 1o. 150

8 June 1957

do On 5 Jure 1457 Outliero FaT, Iarger are Errars Anhaosaice to lhe

United States, called nt lin Inbaggg in careasion with another natuor ard

fumished the follerine Information

i:

Me arm nao ln the anse heanlal almat a gong pith din carla ot

ПАТІЛ.

It uns costing him assrodinately i3l a day and Y'rs.

Th:: "A, tho bed

alnaya boon frendly witi hia alco, atalee tiat sin could lice to lie care of

the hounlal expenaro of the 1oy, but tha mis refused to accep: her clier.

Cortin later, dra. CATLiIA called la slie freal:: Ter stalino

i*hat ale mad the feepleent sould Ilke lo hare he not an Atiarendrs-at-l.or-g,

lio foll ooppalled to accent tula dose altimin the salary a rento lo gery ilttlo

mere tian his penalen, wilch ha

ersnot raceive willn

princial arantee ol tils nosilden 1a

to travel

but a irrier at the dire, plentin

henlth or prosms of luchness, Neuld

not ha convincine.

MATISTA, barine prord lintater of ilale

follin; Ule tarch Lich ateral on tie 'ol

arl hes intel 91594999479 to the

mDuF'a dinner and the auth of lay dirus bela ln henry o?

ocnaidare •ATISTA hie friend alnse

very kind to hia, hut ho disagress

aden his politinally and mata to disaricetale hi self from lATITA.

hIIT has not been moored in pollilca for arantin, hit in 8:111 maintalme

hin elcae seccineton with iraJ.

in foola that tahe w111 have chros 1f PITISTA

calla co 18 ho slara in unell de elrotions. In his onner, l are ano Instentlera

a "Chnt a dects!on 19 Parment althin the ellitary us te variher they sill olice vich

DATIJIA of 1cslat that he atep dorn.

The resentront In

the Cuban alitary arainat

the entre TAtT:' Illa lastly la tremendeus enc shia attitude to lay millary men

NTI:TA hielf hen to hich tarard

{og Ceneral TAP!!''IllA and ofton boises him and soars li! to death about thinra be

hes or has not dene; but TAlF!illial has born, and s1ll continie to he, completoly

Joyale

BIlT clairs that 16 was ho mho Introlood Andrian 4T.0 del Moralos to

BATISTA and recomended hin Initially for a port la the Prratiency.

alone frienda, althouch he has not sem Dollin since the latter naber him

Inoredibly If he really ballered that Herbort be iATlt's harl born In the Stera

Maontre nountains.

LEmMENTIAL

18-2-4.136

---

## Page 4

CLNMDENTIAL

5 0 50. 170, Paro?

J June 1957

Ponteg and lian

rareera to Mahla concomn aboat the pencent damerons trond

Of ERA IRTLTA Co-errrrito le has arcurd eith hinels uhecher ha 810u11 co so

the Frestiiii hi self to argress hia concern, although he le inclined so belleve

that 1e rould do no coode

V:IT Seela that mithin a short time he vill be compellod, sa ble

atriotio duty, to mentar the politieal ocene.

do M101893:2

Sla was a de'pinie do the coralen innlators" conference la Porota In

A li lind ma resperallle for harin.

rotten a nafe eopluct for licel citid

and sereral olier culans to leare coleria.

haro been rever: lole for tir

Meant wen them te

ÃRO was Sn Perote

la connection alch a Biscento

C6n,5033.

In lla genten, there la no epidence do Intlosto Catio 10 a Coruntato

and he knosa that rain did not ectteli partletonio in the death of chli

Fellcoing Bie La:toss saine-inition, dial CASIN d°d dcin in the serolitionary

miyamt a13 in learned, after hazine o tained tin ane ernget fog Cio, thos

Casalü hod killod averal mople dirine thn Trichase, Inel an" cone priette. He

deed not knos sheliar he rilled tre or ata priesta, but he soild not have cotten

a sare conduct der hua had he men shat ha subsen unely found out.

Pidol Canto paragento the fuenle of the truth of Cuba lyr yours and

uniorlo and le saili be a entratronho Ino hia to enemo as a lendrro

I: 887:11 be

better for all erniered 1f he la Mile, eveu tioure in mob event he sould do

don ln history as moshes cartyr lie "hillo

do Lesult en the Brestlenstal Palace, 12:050 32570

ros his oNce, "It sitnrised the miire asa. The rrincipa

ellen via cros ln 15 airatro, tut polioo and 111 tary outalde the "alace pro

Longed the aubles fer sore than an los by shootin. at sallas lates and other

bulldines for she clesy el barior partlolpated la the deferse of the Palace.

Diatribution:

1 = Embassy

ag a bashington

2 - 71l00

Of local interest No objeetion to

dissendnation.

CONFIDLNTIAL

+9-5-148316152

---

## Page 5

dECRET

Kro Chapla

Attache

Memo to. 152

22 June 2057

Cuban Covern ent lurchuse of ishielea

tre follovinr Infor-tion hee bean roceived face a Cortrolled

Anerless source in ¿anarun, ileart: uat

an i June assi livinute 110%, farciering a int 5i5 "se. sorue

In tachington a 10 Tro Triunit Arlenenior to tilenrarus

that the l'eirasuo t serient has ado a pure'see frie tle

legrall lorentent der allo, ry curle tho sear of di Juro

to itcarara on lin, raunic sino.

Inclived in tho j-Tchose

se 6s seriound rm.j cour ridiled veilcing counting daea

_chine fung and one so:la cannon sia holding rise seno

Tho

Cu an Coverront hus in turn ioucht iron the l'eurman

CoTerIana 2ô of tiese scileles and da to Band a toat to

Corinto to take delivarg

des Leral, Army, inrado dis illiends

Distributions

1? - Washington

1 - Addressee

1= Legal and Serrice Attachéa

2 - Files

SOURCE: MANA 20kl

22 June 2957

SECRET

+8-2-4-1316158

---

