# 104-10310-10061

## Page 1

104-10310-10061

38

Review Staff:

75/2723/a

Date

6 September 1975

TO

•" :

CIA Task Force

FROM

: The Review Staff,

SUBJECT : SSC/NS& Request

RECEIVED: Date

Wz

Walter Elder

Time

The attached package on Ford-Fiscalini will

hopefully help. the DDO search for information.

Comments:

Action

SC/DCI

A/ DDA

-A/ DDI

A/DDO

A/DDS&T

OGC

OLC

IG

Into

X

---

## Page 2

13-00000

SECRET

Please return to Review Staf

4 SEP 1975

MEMORANDUM FOR: The Review Staff

VIA

Hey Director lor sinniversion Of der.

5 SEP 1975

SUBJECT

Senate Seloct Comnittee Request

(Charles Ford)

1o

Reference is made to a 28 August 1975 memorandum

fron the Review Staff (75/2723), which contains a request

from Mr. Mike Madigan, Senate Select Conmittee Staff, for

infornation concerning the possible use by the Agency of

one Charles Ford to establish contacts with the underworld

for possible use against Fidel Castro. Referenced request

Indicated that Charles Ford was an Agency officer, who was

utilizing the name "Rocky Siscalini."

A review of

the Office of Security indices dis-

closed both an overt and covert file on one Charles D. Ford

•(SF #38 497), a current Agency employee serving with the

Office of Training/Deputy Directorate for Administration.

cited files disclosed that circa 1964-1963, Charles D. FOrC

was issued official alias documentation under the name

"Charles D. Fiscalini."

3.

Charles D. Ford has been an Agency staff employee

since 1957.

the office of security tiles relating to Mr. ford

do not contain any information which would indicate he had

been used to contact underworld figures for possible use

against Fidel Castro..

However, in November 1961 Mr. Ford was

assigned to the Deputy Directorate for Operations, Western

Hemisphere Division as an Operations Officer. A memorandum

contained in his files, dated 30 March 1962, indicates that

vir. Ford was issued alias documentation under the name of

"Charles D. Fiscalini." Cited memorandum further indicates

that Mr. Ford was then assigned to "Task Force W," and was

to travel to New York on 31 March 1962 to meet with an un-

identified attorney who had contacted Mr. Robert Kennedy:

the

then Attorney General, concerning assistance for Cuban prisoners.

SECRET

EZIMPDET

CL BY 063344

OS 5-7628/A

---

## Page 3

13-00000

We U1111

(..

Mr. Ford's files reflect that he was reissued this alias dócu-

mentation in February 1963,

to be utilized "in the Continental

U.S. for operational purposes in pursuit of the mission of the

Special Affairs Staff." On 10 July 1963, Cited allas documen-

cation was returned to Headquarters, noting that MI. Ford was

being reassigned within the Agency and would no longer require

the use of the alias documentation.

As stated, Mr. Ford's Office of Security files contain

no irformation concerning the specific nature of his duties on.

behalf of the Western Hemisphere Division, Task Force ", or the

Special Affairs Staff.

Attached hereto are copies of the perti-

nent menoranda referred to herein, which are dated during the

1961-1963 period. These documents have been sanitized in

accordance with established procedure.

Prior to the release

of these documents to the Senate Select Committee, It 15 rECO

mended that the entire package be coordinated with the Deputy

Director for Operations.

Robert W. Gambino

Director of Security

Att

Distribution:

Orig &

2 - Addressee w/3 sanitized atts

1 - DDA

2

SECRET

---

## Page 4

13-00000

SIANDARO FORY NO. EL

Offica Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

IO

Frie

FROM.

fitre

SUSJECE:

Fors, Chante 3.

0}

1628497

E the sine lin de nein

.SI

---

## Page 5

13-00000

10 Guy 1149

•EMUDEN Per: Chrisa de security

122.5

S3530T

:3a1g9 011109

: 020/55, CIA Cover Employee

: CIA I0 Card- Gearles ü. Bord.

, Faturnad heravita is Subjact's OIl ID Gard acicer 3915, ad

his sta I Card nuncer 3924 in his registard, alisa, charlas D. FISClIaG:

is. Ford i3 Izaring SAS for another "gency asaigment which will not

reguire the use di ihase docurents.

2. Hater ang questions to

G. A. Tadras, de. SO Security, wet. 5909-

/S/

Dashond Pis:Ceraid

Chiei,

₫13

attaohnents:

031 ID Card No. 3715

GEN

: 15 Card No. 3924

c.:

069/Os

MET

---

## Page 6

13-00000

(

20 abriary 1963

HZMORANDUN FOR: Chief, Physical Security Division

ATTENTION

SUBJECT

: Badge Office

Charles D. FORD (T)

(Request for CLA Idantification Card in alias)

1.. It is reguested that a ClA identification card, valid io= one •

year, be issued to the Subject in his registared alias, Charles D.

Fiscalisi. This card will be utilized in the Continental J. S. for

operational purposes in pursuit of the mission oi the Special Afiairs

Stafi. Subject currently holds CLA identification card No. 3129 in

alias which will axpire 31 March 1963.

3. Fbotographs of the Subject are on file in die Brige CiSce

aad his physical description follows:

Age

Height :

raight :

Eyes

Fair

$1

6 Ft. 4In..

250

GISy

Brown

3, Upon issuance, please call CTA Cover Empt, 5.15/ Security

2S5/ Osacer, Intension 6055, who will pick uy the new card and retarn the

cage

whica expires 31 March 1963.

This Pin

HOWARD I. PRESTON

26F:83

tachment:

Blank ID Card

24639498

-we 1E0A0120

---

## Page 7

13-00000

SEGNEI

(

2 daril 1502

SOLITO I0R: Deputy Directar di security (Personnal

#Ohyaical Supcort)

:CIA Cover Emoloyelize Diree

: Tharles D, Ford

This vill conila versal sequest by tr.d. d. volute, fri

1 Neo locer CRETEi en 30 Marci 1362 {or especite issuanco oi a

JIl creiential to Subject in the allas abtiched.

thds credential is required to perit subiact to contact

ritin the inited States, as an dificial representatira oi this

igency, indivinala to shos Cil intarest bus not mu tie iceatiy

3= Subject tast be disclaved.

The conceration of le. Chris Gius and dico ¿razs 318ai,

Ind al J0ur silice, in expediting lusuance of is eradenziai is

39a17 appreciatsa.

(s/

1 bacareno:

Idantity Sheat

эT./2

1:19?

---

## Page 8

13-00000

132288

÷102

IN205*087503

---

## Page 9

13-00000

BENICRALDUM ICR: Chief, SD/2

FROM

C. S. C1793

SUEJECI

FOD, Charles D.

$38497

1. On 30 March 1962 Jerry Mullate, Ma Security Orilcer vercally

requested Security cyproval for the issuence of an Allas CIS IdertifI

cation Card for the ceptimed Subject. The alias to be used 1s

barles D. 1

DESCATTI.

Mal lane explained that the Subject Is assized to fask force

Ward is scheduled to travel to fay York on 31 Maach 1962 to contact

an attorney in that city.. The lew Iork attorrey reportedly contected

Iz. Robert Kernedy, Attorney Ceneral, and offerred his samrices to help

sore of the Cubarserisorers vno ase curently scheduled for trial In

Cuoz. Mullane advised that the Attorney Ceneral relerred the asiter to

the Agency. with instructions to follow throusa.

3. I gave a verbal Security auroral to etiployee

CS Baige

artice for tike.

March 1963:

for purposes of beckstogping is the eveat ary

Inquintes came 1n over the weekend. Further, I callad Dobila fuses,

afice of Persorel, azd furnisted ber the Subjeci's alies for ber-

stoppitg purposes so that she would be in a position to acknorledge

the subject under that alias 1a response to azy lagitimate inquiries.

LaS/ICS

4. In addition tothe foregoing, I called the ls file Roon and

regrested that an lidices card in the Suoject's alias be prepared.

3233/30Sg

5.: The foregoing transvired late this date on az expedite basis.

This is summitted for record purposss.

6/000

C/52)

C73

10/22

6.113

2306

10 vera 4562

ICIOSED

USAG

30R

---

## Page 10

13-00000

HEADQUARTERS

DATE

I AUG I9S2

TO

=

3.

S*.

• Special Agent in Charge

Nes tork Picla Cilico

Letter drop

TYPE OF P.O.

SĐ/ 3

BOX ACTION REQUESTEO

SAME OF BOXHOLDER

ESTASLISH

Subjach

ADD

CO-AJDRESSEE

CO-ADDRESSES

FISCALTH I

CARCEL

OTHEP

333/205

22051:2S

ASST/I$S

REFERENCE

"eque Dancrande

15 Marca 1981 .

LOCATION OF BOX

letter drop

SERVICING SCHEDULE

Irree tires wickly

SUBMIT

INTERIA REPORT

DOC-FINAL

REPORT

sY. (Date)

¿.:.

REPORT ON P.O. BOX SERVICE

tiTe Division

FINAL

IGTION ACCOMPLISHER BY (RaRE)

PAUL T.

AUDEd"

DATE

STATE

/197S

13: 177

CIA Cover Employee

1 21gs 1952

72:00.0

1994

---

## Page 11

13-00000

1 AUS 1982

TO

ATTENT.

FROM

SUBJECT:

Creeg Juar Force &

Lapuby Director di Security Corestigations nd Spears)

LETTER ADDRESS

1. Reference is nade to your sensandes daend 59 -dy 2010

which requested that the name

Do PISSAMI

• be added to

the Subject letter-adaress.

2. This is to advise that the ramela Do Fascicle has

been added as a co addressee to the folloving address:

Letter drop

•3- You are requested to advise this Office when this address is

no longer needed. Any inquiries concerning this facilit shouid be

directed to the SD/3 Desk of this Office, Roon ta T3. Ieagley, Extension 6S71.

FOR THE DIRECIOR OF SECURITY:

ĐDS/IOS

ADDS/ 105

ASST/295

#38 497

C/ID CIA Cover Employée

roar Age 1962

7221

1722

C/SAB

C/S:

1157-21

==

ANTS

1I23

38494N0E.

---

## Page 12

13-00000

30 JuLy 1962

14031:004 202: Depuiy Diractor a Security (Invastigations

& Operatiocal Suppose

ALIENTION

5D/3, CIA Cover Employee

3031001

Lattar dadrsss

Letter drop

Nes Tor's 3, M. I.

shout a rotto 11 eceted, to the 2001 5 590t

issistant, o/Mrl.

JOH E. JuLE

Chiei or Support

Pask Force

Bond 1i7 amaalle

SECRET

---

