# 104-10429-10091

## Page 1

104-10429-10091

Tep Secret

(SEVEITIL DEPARTMENT - June 1955-January 1960)

Operational Activities (1958-1960)

Deputy Chief of the American-British Commonwealth Section

According to NOSENKO, the Seventh Department was reorgan-

ized.in June 1958,

and NOSENKO's section, which theretofore

had been concerned with operations against foreign tourists

from all countries,

was split into two new sections, one

concerned with tourists from the United States and the

Eritish Commonwealth and the other with tourists from Europe,

Latin America, and all other countries.

NOSENKO claimed

that at that time he was promoted to the position of Deputy

Chief of the American-British Commonwealth Section,

. "the

most important section of the Seventh Department".

In September it aGain to ve perso that he rupee :

vised the sexual entrapment of

although Seventh

Department Chief

DUBAS made the actual approach.

Beginning

in the spring

of 1959 he said he directed his agents YEFREMOV

and VOLKOV in a series of successful entrapments- DREI, (LUKIS,

NOSENKO stated that he also

used these homosexual agents in 1959 in compromising two

and

Finally, NOSENKO said, he recruited the Moscow

representative of the

NOSENKO claimed that his operational success during 1959

carned him a commendation from the KGB Chairman.

since retracted all claims to any awards

KGR service.] It was because of his position as Deputy

Chief of the American-British Commonwealth Section, MOSENKO

said, that he first became involved with Lee Harvey OSALD.

MOSENKO asserted that the recruitment of agents among

foreign tourists was secondary to his department's principal

mission, the detection of western intelligence officers and

agents among the increasing flow of tourists visiting the

Soviet Union.

In line with that counterintelligence mission,

on General GRIBANOV's order in the fall of 1959, NOSENKO

Document Number 1549-497

for FOIA Review on

FEB 1978

CLASSIFICATION REY SHOES

CONDUOTED ON

DERIVATIVE OL BY

REVW ON DRYNGETO

REVW ON

DERIVED FROM

1982

CONDUCTED ON

DERIVATIVE ELBY

Li DECE B DO WINGE TE

REVW ON -

DERIVED FROM

127

Top Secret

EXTRAtE oug

No.

197124

7

.. Copy

FULL TEXT COPY - DO NOI RELEASE

---

## Page 2

13-00000

Top Secret

(SEVENTH DEPARTMENT - June 1955-January 1960)

claims that he saw NOSENKO on three occasions,

twice in Odessa, while visiting the USSR in 1962 and

NOSENKO insisted that

he met

but once

in Odessa and once in Moscow

that period.

NOSENKO volunteered his account of the

case in Geneva in 1962 and 1964.

Ile freely

related the details of the summer 1962 and

February 1963 meetings with

consistent with

His account of

version, except as

noted above.

Lee Harvey OSWALD (1959-1960)

For continuity of presentation, both periods of NOSENKO's:

alleged involvement with OS"IALD in 1959-1960 and in 1963

are described elsewhere.

(See p.303.) According to NOSENKO,

he was involved with OSWALD in 1959 because he was then

Deputy Chief of the American-British Commonwealth Section

of the Seventh Department.

In that capacity he participated

In.the decision that OSWALD was of no interest to the KGE

and he should not be allowed to remain in the Soviet Union.

Comment:

NOSENKO's information on his involvement with

OSWALD in 1959 is insufficient to serve

evidence confirming or refuting his claimed

service as Deputy Chief of the American Section

of the Seventh Department in 1959.

143

Top Secret

•TS No. 197124

Copy _T

---

## Page 3

13-00000

Top Secret

(SEVENTH DEPARTMENT - January 1962-January 1964)

was promoted to the position of a (one of three) Deputy Chief

of the entire Seventh Department.

A year later, he was made

First Deputy Chief, and thus second-in-command

to CHELNOKOV

and general supervisor of all Second Chief Directorate tourist

operations. The Seventh Department, which had a strength of

about 100 KGB officers, was responsible for all operations

against tourists in the Soviet Union.

From this period NOSENKO

claimed to have learned, either by virtue of his position as

Deputy Chief of otherwise, of a number of KGB operations

against Americans, including two arrests, one recruitment, and

investigations of a suspected FBI agent and of Lee Harvey

OSWALD.

NOSENKO as well attributes to his senior KGB posi-

tion during this period his knowledge of an

and of the KGB investigation of a disaffected American Embassy

nate de knowledge ste

American GRU agent

Section officer, the latter occurring just before NOSENKO re-

turned to Geneva for the second time, and defected.

Recruitment of

NOSENKO's Information

In September 1963, NOSENKO took over from his subordinate,

Seventh Department case officer Ye.N. NOSKOV, the management

of KGB agent |

I (cryptonym "ANOD").

was the president of l

There was originally some suspicion

that]

might be an FBI informant, and the KGB

was

also concerned over(

contacts with AMTORG per-

sonnel in New York City. NOSKOV, the case officer at the

time, "felt" that

was not an FBI informant and

recruited him in 1960 or 1961 after he was arrested for

blackmarketeering while visiting the Soviet Union.

cooperation was secured against KGB

promises that

Inturist would refer business to the agent's New York travel

task was to screen visa applications of

prospective tourists to the Soviet Union for persons who

might be connected with American Intelligence.

If he suspected

such a person, he would make a signal by moving the photograph

on the visa application slightly,

or pencilled mark on the application form.

apple on torn al

or making a small pin-prick

292 .

Tep Secret

TS No. 197124

COpy

---

## Page 4

13-00000

Top Secret

(SEVENTH DEPARTMENT - January 1962-January 1964)

The OSWALD CASE

NOSENKO's knowledge of the KGB's interest in

OSWALD stemmed from his

claimed Tourist Department

assignments.

He asserted that while Deputy Chief

of the American Section in 1959 he participated in

the KGB determination that OSWALD was of no operational

interest.

In September 1963, when NOSENKO was Deputy

Chief of

the Tourist Department, he was informed of

OSWALD's visit to the Soviet Embassy in Mexico City to

apply to return to the USSR.

Immediately following

President Kennedy's assassination, NOSENKO,

Deputy Chief of

the Tourist Department,

records of OSWALD's stay in the Soviet

Union including

the Second Chief Directorate file on OSWALD.

For continuity of presentation, both periods of

NOSENKO's alleged involvement with the OSWALD case

(1959-60 and 1963) are discussed here.

The information NOSENKO provided

on the OSWALD

case is significant if it substantiates. NOSENKO's

claimed positions in the KGB and confirms the validity

of his claim that he knew the extent of KGB involvement

with OSWALD.

NOSENKO's Information

Residence in the USSR

Prior to OSWALD's arrival in the USSR, he was

completely unknown to the KGB.

Moreover,

receipt of his visa application, the KGB

Second Chief

Directorate determined that he was not of sufficient

importance to justify any special interest by the

Seventh Department.

Not until about October 1959,

when OSWALD expressed a desire to remain in the USSR

did he come to the attention of NOSENKO, Who was, at

that time, Deputy Chief of the American Section of

the seventh Department.

All available materials on

him were thereupon collected and examined - the visa

application,

Inturist reports,

interpreters' reports,

reports from hotel agents,

and the results of a check

of KGB Archives.

NOSENKO's subordinate, KRUPNOV

interviewed the interpreter to whom OSWALD had stated

his wish to stay in the USSR.

303

Top Secret

•TS- No. 127124

---

## Page 5

13-00000

< Top secret

(

(SEVENTH DEPARIMENT - January 1962-January 1964)

Although the KGB considered it possible that OSWALD

might be an American agent, the KGB did nothing to

investigate this possibility because "this would be

done after the person is allowed to stay in the Soviet

Union."

Surveillance of OSWALD was not increased after

his request, and OSWALD was not interviewed by the KGB

in an attempt to establish his intentions.

KRUPNOV

sent NOSENKO, his chief, a memorandum on information

which had been received concerning OSWALD.

The memorandum

cited reports by KGB informants at the Hotel Berlin,

where

OSWALD was staying in accordance with an Inturist itinerary

and a two-page report by the Inturist interpreter to whom

OSWALD made his initial request to remain in the Soviet

Union.

A file incorporating all information which KRUPNOV

had collected was thereupon opened in NOSENKO's section.

From this information NOSENKO and KRUPNOV concluded

: that. OSWALD was. of no interest to the. KGB,..and both agreed

that OSWALD appeared somewhat "abnormal."

For this reason

NOSENKO instructed KRUPNOV to advise OSWALD through the

Inturist interpreter that he would not be permitted' to

remain permanently in the USSR and that he must depart on

the expiration of his visa, then seek re-entry. as a

permanent resident through normal channels at the Soviet

Embassy in Washington.

KRUPNOV followed NOSENKO's orders,

and either that day or the next NOSENKO learned that OSWALD

failed to appear for a scheduled tour arranged by his

Inturist guide.

This prompted a search, and after several

hours, OSWALD was found in his hotel room, bleeding heavily

from self-inflicted wounds. After hearing of this incident

from KRUPNOV, NOSENKO then reported it to K.N. DUBAS, Chief

of the Seventi Department.

NOSENKO believed that DUBAS in

turn reported it to GRIBANOV, head of the KGB Second Chief

Directorate.

GRIBANOV upheld NOSENKO's original decision

that the KGB should not become involved with. OSWALD and

that OSWALD should not be permitted to remain in the USSR.

There was no attempt to debrief OSWALD because "he was

not an interesting person and wasn't normal."

OSWALD was

never questioned on his past nor asked to write an

auto

biography.

304

Top Secret

TS No. 197124

Copy -

E.

B

---

## Page 6

13-00000

Top Secret

(SEVENTH DEPÄRTMENT - January 1962-January 1964)

NOSENKO did not know who eventually'

granted

OSWALD permission

to reside temporarily in the USSR

or who approved issuance of his temporary residence permit.

The KGB gave instructions that he not be allowed to live

in the Moscow area.

Either the Soviet Red Cross or the

Ministry of Foreign Affairs may have made this decision

. to assign OSWALD to Minsk.

The Seventh Department updated

his file, and it was sent; along with a cover letter pre-

pared by

KRUPNOV, to the local KGB organization in Minsk.

KRUPNOV's letter summarized the case and specifically in-

structed local authorities there to take no action con-

cerning OSWALD except to observe his activities

"passively"

to make sure that he

was not

an American Intelligence agent

on temporary

"sleeper" status.

NOSENKO read this letter,

and it was signed by DUBAS.

On the basis of the instructions

contained in the letter, NOSENKO said, no active steps could

-be taken in Mirisk without 'KGB Headquarters approval.

NOSENKO's opinion that the only coverage of OSWALD during

his stay in Minsk consisted of periodic checks at his

place of employment, questioning of his neighbors and

associates, and coverage. of his mail.

After OSWALD's

threatened second suicide attempt, the KGB

"washed its

hands of him" and that even though there was considered

to be some possibility that he was a

"sleeper agent,"

KGB Headquarters interest in him while he was in Minsk

was "practically nil."

Request to Return to the USSR

The KGB Second Chief Directorate was not concerned

with OSWALD's return to the United States in June 1962,

by which time NOSENKO was Deputy Chief of the Seventh

Department. No further word on him was received at KGB •

Headquarters until he appeared at the Soviet Embassy in

Mexico City in September 1963 and requested a visa to

return to the Soviet Union.

The Mexico Legal Residoncy

reported his visit to KGB Headguarters by cable, Ie

questing information.

The KGB First Chief Directorate

had no record on OSWALD.

M.I. TURALIN, Deputy Chief of

the First Chief Directorate's Service Number To (Counter

intelligence Abroad) called the Seventh Department to

see if the latter element had any information on OSNALD.

The Chief of the Sixth Section of the Seventh Department,

V.K. ALEKSEYEV, received the call and reported the in-

quiry to Seventh Department Chief CHELNOKOV or to KOVALENKO.

• Top Secret

TS No. 197124

Copy --

---

## Page 7

13-00000

C Top Secret

(SEVENTH DEPARTMENT - January 1962-January 1964)

NOSENKO thought he himself was present at the time.

was given OSWALD's background, including his suicide attempt

and the fact that he was not considered normal, and was

told to advise the First Chief Directorate that OSWALD should

not be permitted to return to the Soviet Union.

ALEKSEYEV

relayed this information to the First Chief Directorate.

NOSENKO did not know •to whom OSWALD had spoken at the

Soviet Embassy in Mexico City, and he knew of no contacts

between OSHALD and. Cubans or representatives of the Cuban

Government there or elsewhere.

Comment: Independent sources, however, reported on

visits by OSWALD to the Cuban.

Soviet Embassies in Mexico City between 29

September and. 3 October. 1963 and on his

(apparently overt) contact with a KGB officer

under Consular cover at the Soviet Embassy

NOSENKO originally said he knew

nothing of any such contact.

In October 1966

he revised this to say that OS"ALD did not:

have contact with the KGB in Mexico City®

NOSENKO explained that he had been sitting in

the office of Seventh Department Chief, K.N.

DUBAS, when a cable arrived at Moscow Head-

guarters from the KGB Legal Residency in

Mexico.

The cable, which

NOSENKO said he did

not personally see, reported that OSWALD had

-- visited the Soviet Embassy in Mexico City

requesting permission to return to the USSR

and that the cable specified that OSWALD had.

dealt with Soviet Foreign Ministry personnel

only.

306

Top Secret

TS. No. 197124

Copy

---

## Page 8

13-00000

Top Secret

(SEVENTH DEPARTMENT - January 1962-January 1964)

3

Post-Assassination Review of KGB File

NOSENKO next learned of OSWALD's activities as a result

of President Kennedy's assassination®

About two hours after

President Kennedy was shot, NOSENKO was advised of this fact

in a telephone call to his home from KGB Headguarters.

A

short while later he was told,

again by telephone, that the

President had died.

Aboyt two hours later, NOSENKO was told

that OSWALD had been arrested, and he and the other officers

of the American

Tourist Section were called in to determine

whether the KGB had

establishing OSWALD'S identity

information concerning him.

After

from KGB files and learning

that his file was still

in Minsk,

NOSENKO phoned 'the

• KGB

office in Minsk on GRIBANOV's orders:

-over the telephone a summary of its file on OStiALD.

summary concluded with the statement that the KGB in Minsk

had attempted "to influence OSWALD in the right direction".

GRIBANOV had been greatly disturbed about the local KGB's

efforts because it had been given specific instructions to

carry out nothing other than passive measures against OSWALD

there.

He ordered that all records in Minsk pertaining to

OSWALD's stay there,

a5

well

as an explanation

of the

meaning of the statement about influencing OS"ALD, be flown

immediately to Moscow by military aircraft.

NOSENKO personally

read the explanation from Minsk concerning

the meaning of

this statement and thoroughly reviewed OS"ALD's file when

it arrived by plane.

He then turned the file over to S.M.

FEDOSEYEV, the Chief of the American Department of the KGB

Second Chief Directoraté, who prepared a two-page summary

memorandum for GRIBANOV.

This memorandum, which NOSENKO

read,

was forwarded to KGB Chairman SemichastnyS, and

Semichastnyy in

turn reported to the CPSU Central Committee

and

to Khrushchev. concerning it.

OSWALD's' file from

Minsk contained no information to

indicate that the KGB in Minsk had taken any action with

respect to OSWALD contrary to instructions

from KGB Head

quarters•

From the date of OSWALD's arrival in the USSR

until his departure, the KGB had no personal contact with

him and had not attempted to utilize him in any manner.

307

Top Secret

TS.No. 197124

Copy. -

---

## Page 9

13-00000

Top Secret

-- (SEVENTH DEPARIUENT - January 1962-January 1964)

OSWALD never received any KGB training or KGB assign-

ments.

If any other department of the KGB or the GRU had

wanted to use OSHALD in any way, it would have had to secure

permission from the Seventh Department,

which originally

opened his case file.. In view of OS!ALD's

apparent mental

instability, no Soviet intelligence organization, particu-

larly not the Thirteenth (Assassination and Sabotage)

Department, would have considered using him.

KGB Head-

quarters did not maintain a control file on

him following

his settlement in Minsk intere would have done had OSMALD

been of any operational

only KGB record on

OSTIALD maintained in Moscow

an index card giving

name and the fact the Seventh Department had originated a

file concerning him.

The KGB maintained no separate file on Marina OS!ALD;

all information about her was kept in OSWALD's file.

was no indication in OSWALD's file that the KGB had

There

had any

interest in Marina either while she was in the Soviet Union

or after she left for the United States.

Comment:

NOSENKO later told CIA on one occasion that he

"only skimmed the file" and on

another that

he

had it in his possession about 20 minutes.

In

October 1966 he again said that he read the

file and that while doing

so he saw a picture

of OSWALD for the first time.

NOSENKO added

that he never met OSNALD personally:

NOSENKO's assertion that the KGB First Chief

Directorate first learned of OSWALD when he

applied for a re-entry visa in Mexico City in

September 1963 is probably incorrect.

The

consular file turned over to the U.S. Govern-

ment by the Soviet Embassy in Nashington

after the

assassination indicated that the KGB

First Chief Directorate would have known of

OSNALD as earlY

as February 1963 if not earlier.

That file contained Marina OSWALD's letter of

February 1963 and a letter of July 1963 from

OSTIALD, both of which indicated that OSKALD had

303

Top Secret

TS No. 197124

Copy -

---

## Page 10

13-00000

C Top Secret

C

(SEVENTH DEPARTMENT - January 1962-January 1964)

Comment:

(Continued)

earlier requested permission to return to the

Soviet Union.

In the last dated letter of the

file, one of 9 November 1963, OSWALD advised •

the Soviet Embassy in Washington of his travel

under alias to Mexico, his fruitless contact

with an official (whom CIA identifies as a

KGB officer) of the Soviet Embassy in Mexico

City, his contact there with the Cuban Consulate

and his efforts to reach Havana in order to

visit the Soviet Embassy

there.

*ithout regard

to possible earlier correspondence, OSWALD'S

request for à Soviet visa addressed to the

Embassy

in Washington in July 1963 would reguire

the Washington Residency

to report the matter

to Moscow just as NOSENKO described the Mexico

City

Residency later did. NOSENKO's apparent

ignorance of OSWALD's 'communications with. the

Soviet Embassy in Washington discredits his

claim to complete knowledge of all aspects of

the KGB relationship with OSWALD.

The CHEREPANOV Papers

Comment:

On 4 November 1963 in Moscow, a MEZHKNIGA

employee claiming to be one CHEREPANOV, passed

to an American book-buyer a package which he

requested the American to deliver to a trust

worthy person at the American Embassy- Embassy

ITacials found the package to contain a.

bundle of typed or handwritten documents which

appeared to have originated in classified KGB

files. Fearing a Soviet provocation which

could lead to a denunciation of the Embassy:

for possessing classified Soviet Government

documents,

Embassy officials had the documents

photographed and on the next day, 5 November,

returned the originals to the Soviet Ministry

of Foreign Affairs.

309

Top Secret

TS. No. 197124

Copy -

---

