chiet,

chile,

Fi ear ot ton Hie

art ce Rbyerattons 21 face rurA|Keeting with
rterry!te O.0R, C i
areca AN a go

Bone, for information caly,

i St CAN HE 196
L We Qvantto ma Otic On,

ol
1, Cathe S0th of Soytenber Bromley again bed lunch with(varc DiE/i}to take
up roct{ie matters of business vitch included primarily vise end security checks.
When the unders{cned first valked into tho Kezinetti (aaall private dining room)
at the Officers’ Club in Katajanckka, be ocsnented on the umsually pleecent fall
day?! (Yccor A Jeuphingly replied, "Wall, at leest you acres with GOLUB on one
thing.© fle ronarked that he hed soon GOLUB Just the other day and COLUS hed
comrented about the beautiful fall veather. Haturally, ve were curious ebout
{ Qbw"e Lastnesoand Just asked{Vacc D/, Ghat GOLUB hed to say
Ot vaor DRA replied that soue weet ego vi
Watch had been mailed to Soviet personnel in Heleink! and had
eovlstance in inveatigating thie matter)! [VAC DTt/l \eald that
ef innocuous balp: 0 GOL on natters of this type’as long as
hermless lintts, OOLUB sled'told (Vacc ner/i) at thie tine that
to help with the investigation in my wiy he could)! [Vicc INR/I] had the MTZ let!
investigated uith the result that they found ost that the envalopes-hed bean
typed on a Svedieh Halde mochine, and the onvelosea, vhich had been used ren ont
stock in Relataki etares about a year ago. The fnvesticatioa pointed to Sweden
as the place chero thegs letters met have boas typed, and [Yict Int/IPtold GOLUB
(tip. QOLUR then ested. bin 'if he could tntarvods with the Swedish suthorities,
Olend|Vacc ne /l)hos proatsed to write about At DI[Vacc F/I went on to explain that
his relations with GOLUB are far more See a 7/1)%bs the chief of the
, i

&

Ol [Wace DoS) than they eon be to GAL, because he! [( ‘thinge fron COLO
% be might mot othersieo hear. At the last the following items hed

cosa up

in Finland. LEBKDRV“s uifo has been unhappy with her stay in Helsink!
and has aloo been anxious to rotarn to the Soviet Union,

i
b, GOLUB brought up the toreeysoehti hb case end said toat!VIPTD bed
departed wader ¢ cloud, and vhether Ke would return or mot, GOLUB did
not know. (j (VACC DIt/l\averred that be pot the tuprasaion that viPD
mast have Figorovs questioning before his departures) 02

ee. OoLEB Tuoc MBPT Wpnat be hed vermed his peoplet to be very
careful in Pinlend to domothiag stupid. Uhat he pesat by "his peoplo®
was not clear other thaa he obviously meant Just esbaeay personnel.
Ol (vkcctes/A\ned replied rather maliciously to this by exyings "Yon
'd not be too worried shout their doing stapld thinrs since vo

kmow how to get then cut discrectly.* GOLUB rose to this by asking,
Silas uch on ineideat happmnod vhile T have been here? [VAC D/L ()/
was, of course, thinking of H. 5, KICHILOV, but reg: yaa yor
don't know, then I guess I shouldn’t tall you, after all, T beve to
have sone secrete myself." This ended that part of their couverestion,

ad, 0 hae
2. Going beck to the VAP IDTerrayson caso, [FACE explained to Breniay
that three other Lividents-hed beon presented as: e¥idence by the foviets of attempts.
to recruit Soviet perrome] in Finland, (See the attachnent to! Gra} 58436 fen
Septesber 1953.) Those three osses have beon fully favestigeted, ead there fe

very little beats fe fact to thea, Yor exemple, the first incident was to the
effect that (fmm) +L ITY hed attated to reeruit a Sovies cftives as an
inforeant, The truth of the matter was eunctly tha reverse, and thie case hed
deen reported to the Xinlstry of Interior same two months earlier bly pa) ol
Mimself, tn other words, the Soviets hed arde the rearultment attent ead werd

W/E



CONTINUATION OF
OISPATCH

E. F. #¥2SELYEY. The Pinatsh citioan ferefte (EOKTIEMI had entertained
VASILYLY but on company erdere, since VASD.TEV was liviag alono im a foreign
country. Apparentiy this friendliness vas interpreted by the fucsiens as a
reoruitaet attvart. The Ged soqbel to this ts thet the fire has besa oblired to
fire PONT TEAC! decanse it oannut afford to alienate the fovietsin view ef the
foviet business, The thini case {se eamovhet einilar, free drinkieg and the
Romgenge that foes along vith it taterpreted aa something cinisver I why ciclo.
Yhother or not theec-are tie facts vo canxot say, bat at Least thin te [Face I/ife
version for Brenley consumtton,, 7 He ol

ee
3. A fined asym ines foal cancormed about( Tho D/iPs
end doe’

association vith Gxt, \Wicr appears ta keov vhat ho fo do
Bot: pass out inforsstion tuitonsly, He hes assured us that he bac gover

moationed oar nano te GOLiSvor his reletienstips with even the Syetieh soszrity
Police. In the latter cece COLTS. thinks thet his contacts with the Svedes are
with tie police chief of Stockholm.

eI

Bistribatian
San

: =F

1 October 1938

Seonayatt (MSEOSRSEUSEOMESERE ("°° JEISREMBEDSEEEEEES Uf Poe
a [eter

