# 104-10071-10116

## Page 1

104-10071-10116

RETURNTO CIA

Background Use Only

•Do Not Reproduce

VIA

(Spoilly die ur Gers Aruates

CLANCATION

TO

FROM

Chief, id

15-9

dille: uf station, Chone)

DISPATCH NO. -

5997>>

(0IU29935

02

, DATE _ 22 FobruarI 1259

15-2

¡ GENERAL

SUBJECT

operational

/ SPECIFIC

Conversation microon Dor duan ni ambassylor luce

ie. mrtoro action do uirod: for information

forwarded herewith for your imormation is

a memogandun of comments by

Spanish pretender Dui.

¿ta: to dmbassador?

LicE on lu Fobruary. It is sureotos

that this ve snown to the misstes in Madrid and Lisbone

weep

Attasnment:

Remo of dorveronion i/w

Distribution:

indrid

-

z r/attach

Li soon

-- 2

wy attach

dlo10 : i/ittich

P/LEI

15aeid

51N6

"s 2

AGAS NO.

1AЯ. 1049

51-28 A

23

1347

013) 005-148/01

89/2

---

## Page 2

9000

3744-

at van"

RECAST

saints ky Don du

10

we. Ritabies ages:

in

MAHong Sin

Liveris,

sinolies

a Pons tunt bit or face of tenge

•erebritel butteral

Li::

Polies.

to.:

tickles,

frighto the recent disturbarces in Kuirl evuritin- sing olar

ver.

velle aberds, sotholics i!

O crotists were worka"" 15001.1

ma harosly munst the waln 13t1.

* 3*11.

Cing, a

the Catholies, isralo id ionircists

d"?"

11":

1i2iis

to spell sand li wongel roar. ina."

anerd 19.00 for obtin, but a parantly nunbor so under iranco, to

nirolan cor a conforenceliach tonk place on che defield for too lamaa

:1001, 110c1pllriod

I tail hoppint;but

to conns lo rosgarn Myehrion coult not raise a route viet

mone try alaricultira rose.

Ma. 11a: 1. 1!

•ule di mub o! cornission.

dimly 1ccceritish vould ne oblite the diteur out with iranco.

L8 in: ad myllin to do vich it ho would settlo for havin te jpanion

"las on tbriltun bunk bricachidle contiobof the rock: Lairair noäch

tr. the wnc.idinob.conbrbuythipgris.a.nlilitsmc@botruss to.na starlor

to ne otinto with the williah for two coroccon party on the othor side

they in. procuelin: to

rint irdependence lo torocco.

do yearo o tre

spute sunty labor in thi ironca sppu rea to bu reactionario adar.

SECRET

23

224.

(1 3) 5-411

BE

GARD

EPRODUSTIONS

---

## Page 3

0000g

the's

midlo" in reversed to tie ever o

te: orocons.

0. Li:. 100301)

ce fecla

ресш: могіс 06: f..10. 11

angelin trop io not fire in sin either

Bon of fo::: S0r

ic

connist.

"Ob tit"t:

i! " were inver be'ire

r0o in lie is stret

but 10018e 100-1.100 lou. ii: the tact tat lie opensition couse is

risino.

Do: JU::

let el inerioris

to tierst to mir cooner or

100.0 .h01:000 1 00 11

ther:

rowd morge of lined iles.

in hopes the imarions ties: tolic"

thou he sut i

du :

don dou.

Detrule, iliba.ir li, ile.

coul: 14:10 611 o

the

mlee unite

ir?.

OVEr INITI

blan Honor ill mon genier

16: 101: 11!9 G11511

the trestle't

urs no reston why frostient

"priver":

lo.s

net, knor no ride

intul:, raci. te

grien quidhiese

1i0400. 01l:.

so lots will cour nock.

• allo Molocontact to 110n

1)1.

hin: too nich

Li: con:

Peroniatre, le is 1r:

1I..f:

1.31.

I: i1'% er la. not. the

marial alla ilei do workin within

lint

o mail

1o :orso,

Ne

nob liber.

'.l.

of

luty.

11

a 1000:r0.1.:l.01.010l41

DoI

into lee at d. resortion it, it't

'1:.

iftile

Intre at in the "iral onlcoe.

.:!1

5 1'50

i g

. 11

i...

11

ii::

ne

rus. i,chte.

i';

:: tent

1'

;.::

23

€ 3)

yil:

...

IONS

---

