# 104-10222-10049

## Page 1

104-10222-10049

SECREI

FITNESS REPORT

08

SECTIONA

81108

GENERAL

• ОБУР ОР818

s.88i

0902 Apr 1419

o. OFFICIAL

GS-14

455089

B-CURRENT STATION

WH/

Mexico Cay

10, CHECH INITIFE

OH PORT

8. CHECH IMA POPE CY AAPOINTMENT

TENDONARY

PASIONAL (500 Metracitoe

Sarlton C)

16. DATE REPORT DUE IN O.P.

28 February 1963

SECTION B

W. - Wash

I8, REPORTINO PERIOO FRIE A

1 Jan 1962 = 31 Dec 1962

PERFORMANCE EVALUATION

probation, to reassignmone or to separedion.

Performance monte all requirementa. lo le emilrely sellafoctory end la characterizod nellher by defistoney noe

encellence.

P - Broficient.

Performance la more phen serialectory, Destrod results ano balme produred ln a proficient mennai.

§ • Stronia

Performance lo chorocterised by enceptional prollelency.

0 • Quistondina

Portormanco le so

exceptional in rolation lo requiremente ol no mont aul in comporison to the performance o

¡hors done similar work as lo marrant apoclal racognitlor

SPECIFIC DUTIES

monor to which pages pedome ect adult deto mender one role pent to coing too which be doomeo dea

manner. in which amployee peiformo EACH spocitle duty.

Consider ONLY, effectireness in in fermince of that duty.

with supervisory responsibilities MUST be rated on their ability lo supeeves (indicaro nume it espiogods suporriero

SPECIFIE DUTY NOT

er+g

Stati Agent reaponsible for KUBARK Interests in supervision of a complex

technical operation.

§PRETIC DUTY NO, d

Supervision of ten

agents.

JrECIPIC DUTY NAT

Maintenance of technical equipment.

SPECTRIC DUTY NO E

SPRCIFIC DURE NOS

SPECT OUTS MOO

RATINU

LETTER

'S

A19Y

RATING

LITTHA

OVERALL PERFORMANCE IN CURRENT POSTAN

LETTHA

lormance el apacitie

Tomo into a spot prehe bad the eloped is inter lie or pala gush son

turies, producilalay, conduct on

cosperstivanors. r

particulor limitions or tulants.

$

27 FER 1353 N

SECRET

F29M 45

5/RJ

---

## Page 2

SECTION C

To silence spaghes

SINTO BUGG!

determining les

57E54E

SECRET

Folled fas

NARRATIVE COMMENTS

9de demonairerod in zurent position looptay la proger

a made loe Improvement of mort parlormoro.

equirod los euront position, Amplify or ar:

ronnol estion. Menner el pertormeno el monogortel: pe

MOLEOLAUT

Стопа.

en 8 re meride bon

must bo described.!!

Subject, outalde cano officer for the LIENVOY Project LP, pestorme hla

work promptly, eagerly and efficiently. He la conscientious sed willing

and is alwaya ready lo do his utmost la the interest of thie Organization.

He views hin work to be Interesting and valuable.

Because he fuida it thus,

the technical operation of the Project has moved along amoochly and consistently.

An head of the technical end of the LIENVOY LP, Subject works solely with

indigenous personnel.

Therefore, he has consiantly to be on guard to be

lacuul and considerate yet keep KUBARK's Intereste paramousl

He has

done this with success.

As a technictan, Subject has done his work most efficiently. The valuable

and great amount of equipment in his care has been serviced and guarded by

him as though it were his own.

This equipment could not be sires better care.

Because of his experience in running an LP, Subject's value to KUBARK has

greatly increased. It is recommended that he be promoted to GS-13..

BECTION D

GATE

El0 116

WANTS CHOLOTEE NAB BEEN

MOLEN HE SUPERVION

CERTIFICATION AND CONMENTS:

BY EMPLOYEE:

TCERTIFY THAT I HAVE SEN SECTIONS ARE CES" THISSEPOR

SUPERVIS

TUF THIS RE

LoYEE, divE di

ЧАТЕ

15 Fel 63

CASEMTS 57 ANTIEMIRO OFFICIAL

OUFICIAL TITLE OF SUPINY

TRIO OR PRINTEG

COME AND SIONATUDE

Des Officor

BY REVIEMING OFFICIAL

151 Georse 8. Misko

CATE

• 15 Feb 831963

chidE at station

SECRET

FURLO ON PRINTED ANGE AND SIGNATURE

LEt SisteR Me Score

---

