(TEUTESGE eee reseed ee veel eeteeeea ler facet CF Nira. ce

ie ‘ ve ae OS ae “CIA INTERNAL” ae

° E (Classify When she tr

OUTSIDE ACTIVITY APPROVAL REQUEST

COMPLETE AND FORWARD ORIGINAL AND 3 COPIES TO EMPLOYEE ACTIVITY BRANCH

10st DIRECTOR OF SECURITY; ATIN: EMPLOYEE ACTIVITY BRANCH 6 Yuou. bla
THRU: | | (Stall, division or office head and security officer, where assigned)
| Or s¥aNG ex/ops Lorine f Jomnson eaeteaceet —_
: . or ops, 2 “ + Hui
Q( Sup port]
WAME AND GRADE OF EMPLOYEE (Print GF COMPONENT ROOM NO. AND BLDG. — PHONE
FROM: Ah. Le Coodpust uke
nee HOP QBYY Hes |S

1. FULL DESCRIPTION OF OUTSIDE ACTIVITY FOR WHICH — 1S REQUESTED INCLUDING NAMES OF ORGANIZATIONS OR INDIVIDUA
CONCERNED, DATES. LOCALE, ETC. (Refer to HR 10-7 before completing)

 Aemine PCL ford ual leave?

oad oe hath Moi — NY hes. duutual ledye
naan ¢ Ly QW BWP ot Vg {” we
ORES FR {Stn Ql.)
Ad a Bin HAS een cei
' ee peta ke PSN
r OL); EG
CHA Le veac CBS OR Toor He Se

IN ENGAGING IN THE REQUESTED ACTIVITY, I WILL MAKE NO REFERENCE TO OR pIscuss
MY CIA ASSIGNMENTS OR DUTIES. I (Webb, WILL NOT) BE IDENTIFIED AS EMPLOYED BY CIA ~?
FOR THE FOLLOWING REASONS:

ew ploymout Reforouce te: nominal Shite ‘doraWumokt-

tdcer! ee : Ome
SIGNATURE OF AEOUESTING EMPLOYEE
3. CORMENTS AND CONCURRENCE OF STAFF, DIVISION OR OFFICE HEAD

2. REMARKS BY REQUESTOR

; CONCUR: ce
: DATE SIGNATURE OF OPERATING OFFICIAL
v

FOR COMPLETION BY EMPLOYEE ACTIVITY BRANCH AND RETURN OF ORIGINAL TO EMPLOYEE

SECURITY APPROVAL HAS BEEN (GRANTED; DENIED)
FOR THE ACTIVITY CONTEMPLATED BY THIS REQUEST,

(FOR) CHIEF, PERSONNEL SECURITY DIVISION <

FoRw casouere PRevious
co, 879 eoieions

