# 104-10183-10372

## Page 1

104-10183-10372

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

OLASSITICATION

SECRET

DISPATCH

Chiefs Task Force W

PROCESSING

ACTION

HARRIS FOR INDERING

HO INDERITE HQUIRED

ONE QUALISID

MASPULATIRS DESA

CAn NOCE MOLKING

I RESTRACT

Chief of Station, JMWAVE

sarT Operational/GYROSE/KUWOLF.

P5Q Part II - AMICE = 1

CTION RECLARED RUFERENCE

Forwarded herewith for your information is the PRQ Part II.

on AMICE-14• (201-307337)

END OF DISPATCH

ATTACHMENT: (herewith)

PRO Part II

DISTRIBUTION:

8 - Chief, TIW w/att. (herewith)

safer

ECRET

261-307337

CATE TYPED

DATE DESPATCHED

2 Oct. 62

CCT 3 15S2

DISPATCH SYMBOL A NO NUNGER

UFGA-S982

202-307337

---

## Page 2

2.

Th i a

80081

al.

SECRET

PRO wO.

PERSONAL RECORO QUESTIONNAIRE

PART 11 - OPERATIONAL INFORMATION

DISPATCH NO.

UEGA-5982

INSTRUCTIOIS TO CASE OFFICER

facer or ispropriate authority on the besid of the boat arailoble in

2225 bu

" an as postandar ceone, 18 20801010) and 100(8) cars.

CRYPTONTH

AMICE-14

None

SECTION

CONTACT AND DEVELOPMENT

INDICATE MOH, WEN. IMERE.

WHY, AND BY MACH SUNJECT DAS FIRSE CONTACTEO ON DEVELOPED.

Subject was spotted, sssessed and developed by members of

ANICE at the direction of JAVE for use la planned infil

ops targetted at PBRUMEN.

ANOCAL ME'S PUDICATE TO NOR TUANCO OVER QUIRIT AS IN A SECURE MANNER TO ANY AESTONSIOLE CASE OFFICER ROR

Subject is avare of KUBARK sponsorship of A'ICE and therefore

would be responsive to the direction of any KUBARK cas officer.

SEE PROSA CASE OFFICERS ONO HAVE MANOLEO SUBICY OR DJO ME UNDOS OR MAS ANDAN, GIVE MANES DE ONICH URY MAVE

Clayton B. FARSIITEY as "Frank"

Harold NOEMAYR AS "Roger"

(Note: Subjeot has never met current AlcE case officer.)

"Tia!?: ":* arterate

4099 1050a •

1488

cirl- + 0568-59552

SECRET

18-208

7610307337

---

## Page 3

14-00000

SECRET

SECTIO

MOTIVATION AND CONTROL

Subject is elt.

PBRUMEN, having arrived in PBPRIVE on

He had participated

in five

operations undertaken

infil

independent of kUlARk in connection with

a revolutionary group

from September 1958 through June 1961.

His

notivation toward KillARk is based at least partly on the salary he

sas received since April 1962-

DAT CONTROL, IE.AMY, ERISTS OVER THE SUBJECT, (8f No Control, or al there en a locd of deal confrol

TOBARK control is exercized through AMICS leaders and is partly

dependent upon

monetary considerations,

SECTION 110

COVER

S. COVER USEO BY SUBJECT AND CASE OFFICER IN THEIR ALETINES.

No direct agent-case officer contacts at present. Subject's

cover is that of an AVICE employee.

a- COVER USEO BY SUBJECT IN OBTAINING MIS INFORMATION AND IN CONTACTING NIS INFORMANTI.

not applicable

S. INDICATE SERVICE FOR UNICH SUBJECT THINES HE (WIlL WOrK) (lE GOrinE).

KURARK

SECTION IV

INTELLIGENCE COMHECTIONS AND TRAINING

EXPLAIA SUBJECT'S ANDRA PAST OR PRESENS CONMECTION WITH ANY OTHER INTELLIGENCE SERVICE, INDICATE THE EXTENT

SUCH COAMECTION IS ROOMP

Subject is known

not to have heen an active member of a revolutionary

organization opposed to the Castro regime. No other intelligence

connections are known.

LAST DINER INDIVIDURLS (ARENTO, PelatIVes, (eDendo) MMO AND OF SUBJECT'S PRESENT INTELLIGENCE ACCOVITIES.

Sibject is one of a team of four trained for ANIcE infil ops.

Besides knowing

each other and the two case

officers whoigave

ther training,

they know and are known by AVICE/l and /29 and

AYOT/20, all cleared members of the AMICE organization.

9- CAPLAIY ANY TRAIMING SUBJECT MAS MAO IN CLANDESTINE OPERATIONS.

AUßRk training in demolition, 45-calibre pistol, M-l rifle, M-3

A-1, BAR, compass, caching and base procedure (Fair/Good)

SCETICH Y

COLLABORATION POTENTIAL

jibject might be

more likely

to collaborate.

with a Central

foreten power.

SECRET

---

## Page 4

SECTION VI

SECRET

OPERATIONAL USE - CONTACT

SUBJECT HAS-BEEN USCO OR CONTAGILS BEFORE, INDICATE ACTIVITY IN UNICA ME DAS INCAGIO AND INE TOPE OF INTON.

Direct contact with Subjec & was maintained only for the training

mentioned

above.

He has furnished no information except on his

own background and experience.

IADICATE MOE AND FROM THON SUBJECT OUTAINS INFORMATION.

Not applicable

INDICATE THAT HAS BEEN SOLD SUBJECT AS TO THE DISPOSITION OF INFORMATION ME FURNISHES.

Not applicable

A. DETAIL SUBJECT•S PROPOSEO FI OR CO TUPE USE OR DUTIES.

When and if the infil team of which Subject is a member is activated

a good part of the mission will be collection of positive intelligence.

S. DETAIL SUBJECT'S PROPOSED EP-PLA TYPE USE OR DUTIES.

The infil team was trained in baddo paramilitary perratons inside

to effect the physical security of the proposed operation.

will be to collect intelligence

and to initiate more active under

ground opposition

• the current PBRUNEN regime through labor unions

SECTION YOU

24

PROPOSED LIAISONOR OPERATIONA ACTIVITY

DETAIL SUBJECT'S PROPOSIO GLAISON TYPE CONTACI DR DESRALIOMAL USE:

A. "NERE SUBJECT IS AN OFFICIAL MEMBER OF A FOREIN GOVERNMENT

Not applicable

B. PHERE SUBJECT IS AN OFFICIAL MEMBER OF AN OOVOKE

AGENCY.

Not applicable

SECTION VISI

ACENCY RELATIOHSHIP WITH SUBJECT

are no peonse die cases de, sance, opposese avera durants i as acener

Subject knows case officers FARSITEY and NOENAYll in alias.

SECRET

3/00

---

## Page 5

SECRET

SECTICH IN

QUALIFICATIDNS FOR GTHER OPEPATIONS

¡SICANE SORERATORILITIES, PALERTS, GO GUALIPICATIDAS POSSESSED DO SUBUEGS MAIÇM SSILO GONSEINABEO DE DE MAGUE

OTHER OPERATIONS.

l'ossibly

maritime operations because of his past experience and

his access

to potential assels along the north coast of Matanzas.

SECTION *

COMHI THENTS.

15 P9 1S PROPOSIO TO PAY SUBJECT A REGULAR SALARY,

INDICATE TRE MECALY ARQUAT, lE FAYMENT iO DE MADE IN ENCHANGE

COMMODITILS, SUASIDS OR OTHER

MEPHOD, SPECIFY AND GIVE DETAILS.

$175 monthly paid through A'fICE.

3 EXPERIAN PROMISET; OTMERRISE NOT COVERLO MERCOM, MADE PO SUBJECT, (ExAMple: COnDilmentE r88A8dIn8 arOGuerIOR

No commitments outstanding, although it is probably that some

benefits would have to be promised to his family in the case of

his death, serious injury or capture on an official mission.

CE AND SECURITY

SE THORATE ME FOCCO ACCRCIES AND PICIO PILLS ON DICE SUBJECT-S MOUL NAS OSCA CHECACO AN O THE RESULTS.

WAVE and Headquarters files checked and l0A issued in XDIR-01454.

INDICATE OTHER INVESTIGATIVE MEASURES TAXES TO VERIFY BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATIDN FURNISMED BY SUBJECT.

Vorched for by personal acquaintances among cleared AMICE officials.

INDICATE WHETHER

HOT PROVISIONAL OPERATIONAL APPROVAL OR OPERATIONAL AP.

LA. DATE APPROVAL OBTAIREO

PROVAL FOR SUBJECT•S USE HAS BEEN PREYIOUSLY OBTAINES.

POA--DIR-01454

3 April 62

EVALUATE SUBJECT'S CHARACTER, RELIABILITY ANO SECURITY, COTIMG EVIDENCE INCRE POSSIOLE.

The only references in the file on this individual describes hi

ag "gincere and capable.

•CAPSPERATO SL SATURN O INDISRITIDN IN ONICH SUONIC MAY NAVE OCCA INVOLVEO ANICH MUS C EVALUATCO PROMA

None known.

ECTION XI

• USE OF LIQUOR, DRUGS, GAMBLING. PARAMONA.

"one

known

SUBJECT'S PERSONAL HABITS

SECRET

---

## Page 6

SECRET

SECTICK KILL

AVOCATIONAL INTERESTS

INDICATE SUBJECT-S NODDIES OR INTEREST 18 SPORTS, MUSIC, LIC

None known

SECTICH HEV

GENERAL

A COURTES OR SCION OILETONA SOON. EARD ONER CHARACTERISTICS, ARE SUEM AS ME COULO RASS AS A ROTINE

Unknown

COO ESPE BEETHE

PHE THER

• OTHERMA

MIAMI'" PRO PARTS I AMO 11 HAS OBTAINED DY RESEARCH, CLAMDRSTINE ASSESSMENT, PILES.

All of the information was either volunteered by Subject or ascer-

tained by personal observation of his acquaintances in AlUE or

of the two case officers who participated in his training

" HOPER TUSS "OUTING ACTIOM IS ACQUIRED, IT AND OMEN TERMIMATION OR SURNECT IS CERECTLO, PLEASE EXPLAIA CALDO

Under present circumstances ternination would be a routine matter.

If termination is effected after Subject has been actually enzaged

in infil ops for KUlllRk, the natire of the parting would govern

the complexity of quitcalins etc.

SECTION XY

EMERGENCY COXOITIONS RECONTACT ARRANGADITS

GIVE FURL DETAILS I.E, RECOGNITION SIGHALS.

S'S MHERE COULO CONTACT BE MADE: MHAS BOGA FIDES COULD INTRIQUAL

MAKING CONTACT USES

is indirect

through A ICE officials to have natural

cover for

the necessary number of

meetines.

It is assuned

any PRIll'El clisi ning to be a friend

of "Frank and "loger tha,

would be acdepted

as a bona fide KUBARKER.

SECTION XVI

HISCELLAMEOUS OPERATIONAL DATA AND REMARKS

Ticadles s

DATE

18 sentenber

196; 2

SECRET

---

