odt0185-10125

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

Tote external conteinn iafcrmating afecting the Rational De‘enm of ine Ucited Sisies wisbin the meantag of the Eeglooags Laws, Tide
ME 'UDC Bere M09 dnd TH the tranmauciog of revelation of which Im any anher to an uneutherwed pera te prohibited by W¥.

SECaET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

counter Cuba REPORT 1s,” C5.C3-316700652~64
sumect: Maria del Carmen CARRACEDO ‘OATE DISTR, 11 August 1964

NO. PAGES 1 3

te
SEFERENCES. CS-311/00115-64 i
pare on 1964 .

INFO.
nace a Washington, D. C.
pate acgAugust 1964 FIELD REPORT NO.

Tit Hh UNEVAIUATEDWAGONATION, SOURCE ORADINGS AME DEFINITIVE, _APPRAlRAl OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE,

source, A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuben
Intelligence Service until April 1964.

Headquarters Comnents

Tho following report 1s one of a series containing
personality inforuation provided by the source and .
includes supplemental information from the records

of this Agency. eo

It 16 requested that the addressees taxe no action on RETURN To cia
any of the individuals mentioned in the personality Background Use
reports without first checxing with this Agency. : Not Rep:

1. Maria del Carmen CARRACEDO, pseudonym "Mercedes," is in
charge of the mail office in the Central Processing
Section (Tramites) of the Departamento de Liberacioa
Nacional (National Liberation Department - LN) in the =
Direccion Ceneral de Intelivencia (General Directorate
of Intelligence ~ DGI), She was a DGI officer who
worked on such cases as that of “Pipi” FAXAS, a Dominican
: who died curing the revolt in the Dominican Republic
, in December 1963. She knows all about secret writing.

ae

2. CARiACEDO was born in i943, 1a five feet five inches:
tall, weighs 110 pounds, has @ fair complexion, black, ;
wavy heir which is cut snort, black eyes, thin arched
eyebrows, a small nose, and a lean face. She resides at n
Colle D, Nuaber 209 Esquina a9 Lawton; telephone number
98 “47, She 1s engaged to the First Secretary of the Cuban
Enbassy in Italy. . CARRACEDO has a brother who is a
physician at the “Calixto Garcia’ Hospital in Habani 1

Headquarters Comment

8
1, The records of this Agency reveal no identifiable traces on -
2

1

CANRACZDO. So
SECRET [ES

: NO FOREIGN DISSE
STATE ia Taser — ae Tae ory THEXK. oce Trp 2 |

meee

[LX-1632 ,44- 25.F0

30 PROJECT, AMLUG, ye
C3CI-315/006 52-|

Forme eatioe

ror PRE 7a01) juwe Co) elie vital Dil:
ts

bal : 2S :

OBsoLETE ragviovs xortions
