io t0r72-0272 silane ira a
; Be ; ones Background Use Only
De Not Reproduce

ee _-

_ ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET oo

DOCUMENT GATE

COMMENTS
NOTE It a copy or stachineats are removed trom te of
tached documect. acto the locutioa'ef the copy andor attach.
moat Beceom, His RECORD COPY te to be retained ta
the files af the Deak, call the Cr aval file Section for per
mane foes,

war af
Py Wt Li a frp

fi; © AC“ gor

y)

rote i rep \n Fi Ag
Del bee eG’ * ©

T1987

14000

3/BR


OISPATCH NO.

pare: _-_19 October 1957

To: hier, 35
Info: Chief, s%

FROM’ : Chie! of Station

SUBIECT: commu — Rhayoperations

ol
oP — Talk between Grigori GOLUB ani{¥acen"2/1]
actdon Sequined: None, for inforastion only. ol

Ol 2. tn early ugust 1957, Crigori COWB called oat ceri/i\una arked that
(Wcepeyi)mern nin in advance if ung Soviet offical wizo atout“to be throw
, Out of_Finlsns ss persona non grata, and‘he would personally see to it thst the

man left Finlsci quietly und inmedistelyOl(@/1|says he replied in a stern and

angry manner, “Since when does a little diplomat with the low rank of second
secretary presez: that he 1s so powerful as to remove officials of his oun country
from Finlsrd? If you are really thit powerful, who are you enyway and what’ are your
real duties here in-Finland?" This unexpected answer allegedly disturbed GOLUB
sufficiently tht the subject was pursued no further. ot :

2, OOLS's cuestion is interesting in view of the[ SGhORIG operation. a
We are trying to find out tha exact date of the conversitfon,

3. OOLUS hss overtly the functica of Consul. In thst slot he succeeded Ivan
Yefimovich SSX-TSV, a know [IS officer identified WE IPER/LI. Pesce of
also said on 13 Sctober that Ivan SHISHKTN, also a knowt “RIS officer Tesco, VRUISHER
case) will be leaving Finland PCS in the week of 21-27 Cetober 1957, This makes
tho secand SIS case officer to leave Mnland FS in Cctoter 1957. GOLUE himself
left Finlan’ vizn nis fweily in early Septexber and hss not yet come back,

Ivan VOROEY:¥ left with family on 1 October 1957.

13 October 1957

Distribution:

ay 51-28 A

Ws?
