104-10485+10400)

|
iy

Hwa

as : =. CENIXAL INTELUGENCE AGENCY

Te Ome Beck 18 sed 7H. (he (renemindan ot vevciaiae of whieh lu tay meaner to am Umutherteed perma la prutlbtted by

COUNTRY Cuba kePORT NO. = CS CI-316/00715-84
suanect Julio DAMASO Vasquez DATE OTR 8 September 1964

NO. PAGES 2. Re

Sas Fey
REFERENCES Chey, SE
\ : Oo bg
DATE OF 196: Ot B. Ugg /A
rie Washington, D.C. : Prey ly
fashington, be

pare aca. 2) i FID REPORT NO. Huaiued

THIS 1S UNEVALUATED IMPOUMATION. SOURCE GRADINGE AAD DEFUTIVE APPRAISAL OF CONTENT 16 TENTATIVE,

SOURCE, . A former Cuban IS officer who served: with the Cuban Intelligence
. Service until April 1964, i

, Headquarters Comments

‘The following report is one of a series containing personality :
information provided by the source and includes supplemental
information from the records of this Agency.

7 of the
t first checking

It is requested that the addreaases no action on
individuals mentioned in the personality reports with
with this Agency.

An individual whosé true name 1s not known but uses the name of
Julio DAMASO Vasquez, pseudonym "Sergio," is a Cuban Intelligence
staffer, He has been trained for an assignment to Central America in -
parachuting, secret writing codes, ciphers, and radio, but who until

very recently, was still in Cuba, 1,2, 3, 4,5,6

Headquarters Comments

1, The following traces are possibly identical with the Julio DAMASO
Vasquez above, .

2, Ina report dated 28 April 1959, there was included a List of 87 names.
provided by the! { persons aboard the fishing
7 7

rare oy aay, nA ae iy = om

Tice Feld artim insted by 9)

aat neoane nate et

Ths Soteial sonuiine Lnfiematinn amwtice the Retneee Galva of se URiiéd Stetse Within the meneing of tbe Bupireage Lave fim
ioe



: : eee :
. . vessel, Mavari, when it landed near Mandinga2btava Colorado, San Blas
--  }  o Territory, Patama, on 25 April 1959, Tel eer not
raaas reveal their source, however, newspaper accounts cat at the’: - -¢
t found a Uist of the 87 names on the reveree side of a United States “J
val chart aboard the Mayar:. Included on the list was one Julio NUSCARO
Vasquez, possibly identical with Iy7 DAMASO Vusquez,

. 3, A fatrly reliable source, in a report dated 15 May 1959, stated that

he was present during the initial quéstioning of the Cuban youths who were

‘ captured at Portobello during the invasion of Panamz.” He identified one of
2 the youths as Julio Damaso VASQUEZ, born about 1936, He wasamedical-.
student who had one year of study left before he could get his degree. He : .

” joined the Sierra Morena rebel forces and was made 4n army doctor and given y
the rank of captain, a ee r

4, Ausually reliable source, in a report dated 29 August 1960, said that oe é
Julio Damaso VASQUEZ was working for Cuban JG-2 and-had offered a
friend in Panama a position with Radio Rebeldp.

3. Ina report'dated 2 June 1962, an unteated swaurce reported that wot anne
Julio DAMASO was the ‘administration chief at the Moa Bay Nickel and ~~" ae
Cobalt Plant and a Communist, He said that DAMASO participated eo!
in the Cuban attempt to invade Panama, Source described DAMASO as having i
been born about 1935, being about five feet nine inches tall, having

@ medium build and white, - a ee

6. An-untested ‘source, in @ report dated 22 December 1963, said that
Julio DAMASO Vasquez was a lieutenant in the Departamento de. Seguridad
dei Estado (Department of State Security - DSE) detailed to Minas de Moa, i

;

‘
i Baracoa, Oriente Province, Cuba, DAMASO was a close friend of Ramon
H VAZQUEZ Montenegro, a known Cuban Intelligence Service officer.
Hq . eiecae eae 1 : ‘i
i
|
| -
P ces fe : -
| _ : /
! oe - = a6 eet

ao ~ SECRET
: NO FORN DISSEM

