# 104-10146-10299

## Page 1

104-10146-10299

03137)

ADV C/LA 1550Z

SECRET

==

^=2

SUEDENS

OLC #78-1745/66

FRP :

.2...

STAFF ASCA

ACTION: C/LA -8 (016)

C/IP/DMS, C/LS/ID, CAPCS, ODPD-D, SA/DO/O,

INFO: FILE, VR, DDO-4, C/CI-4, C/EPS/EG-2,

(24/1)

78 0718681

PAGE 001

TOR: 181546Z MAY 78

IN 0718681

MEXI 45116

SECRET 181450Z MAY 78 STAFF.

CITE MEXICO CITY 45116 (CHAIDEZ ACTING)

TO: IMMEDIATE DIRECTOR.

* SUGGEST DISSEM TO: ICS, OLG

WNINTEL RYBAI

REF: DIRECTOR 224314

INTERVIET IS PARIS REEN MEXICO SEEN AREN

1 PROBLEMS WITH HSCA

PROPOSAL CONDUCT THE INTERVIENS WITHIN THE AMERICAN EMBASSY

PARTICULARLY IF SUBJECTS ARE TO BE PUT UNDER OATH.

VISIT OF HSCA MEMBERS TO MEXICO RE IHE KENNEDY

ASSASSINATION WAS DISCUSSED WITH THE CHARGE ON 17 MAY.

IS AGREEABLE IN PRINCIPAL TO THE USE OF EMBASSY FACILITIES

TO CONDUCT THE INTERVIEWS, BUT HE FIRST NEEDS AN OFFICIAL

REQUEST FOR THIS SERVICE THROUGH STATE CHANNELS AND SOME

OFFICIAL WORD ABOUT THE ARRIVAL OF THE HOSA/KENNEDY GROUP

BEFORE HE CAN COMMIT THE USE OF EMBASSY PREMISES.

THE

CHARGE HAD ONLY ONE STIPULATION CONCERNING THE INTERVIEWS

AND THAT WAS THAT THE PERSONS MUST COME TO THE EMBASSY ON THEIR

OWN FREE WILL.

3.

BUT ABOVE ALLe THE CHARGE SAYS HE NEEDS SOME

LEAD. TIME IN ORDER TO MAKE PROPER ARRANGEMENTS.

THE EMBASSY

ALREADY HAS MADE PLANS TO ACCOMMODATE ANOTHER ASCA GROUP

INVESTIGATING THE MURDER OF DR. MARTIN LUTHER KING.

THIS

GROUP IS ALSO SCHEDULED TO ARRIVE MEXICO CITY O/A 30 MAY.

EVERYTHING HAS BEEN LAID ON FOR THAT VISIT BY THE EMBASSY.

INCLUDING COORDINATION WITH THE MEXICAN ATTORNEY GENERAL'S

OFFICE,

AS OF COB 17 MAY, THE EMBASSY HAS NOT RECEIVED

ANY NOTICE OF ARRIVAL OF THE HSCA/KENNEDY GROUP AS INDICATED

PARA TWO REFO

RE PARA 5 REF:

MR, CORNWELL SHOULD CONTACT

MR. LAWRENCE E. STERNFIELD, THE COS.

SECRET

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

21426

---

## Page 2

SECRET

STAFF

78 0718681

PAGE 002

TOR: 181546Z MAY 78

IN 0718681

MEXI 45116

5.

STATION HAS REVIEWED QUESTIONS LISTED PIRA U REF

AND RECOMMENDS THAT HOS RESOLVE THE OUTSTANDING QUESTIONS

CONTAINED PARA 4 REF.

THERE ARE HARDLY ANY RECORDS AT

STATION COVERING THAT PERIOD AND THERE ARE NO PERSONNEL

PRESENTLY ASSIGNED WHO HAVE ANY KNOWLEDGE OF STATION EVENTS

DURING THAT PERIOD.

THE FOLLOWING ANSWERS (KEYED TO THE

QUESTIONS) REFLECT

TOTALITY OF STATION KNOWLEDGE AT THIS TIME.

A. INFORMATION NOT AVAILALBLE OR KNOWN AT STATION.

B. NO RECORD AT STATION.

C. UNLESS TIME/DATE IS INDICATED ON PHOTOGRAPHS

AND TELTAPS, IT WOULD BE ALMOST IMPOSSIBLE TO LINK THEM

TOGETHER. FOR EXAMPLE, EVEN TODAY, WITHOUT IMPROVED

TECHNOLOGY, WE STILL DO NOT HAVE THE CAPABILITY TO INDICATE

THE HAVE THE

THE TIME OF THE INDIVIDUAL CALLS MADE DURING THE DAY.

ACCORDING TO PROJECT RECORDS, THERE WERE(TWO]

TELTAP OPERATIONS ACTIVE AROUND JHIS PERIOD:

THE LIENVOY

PROJECT RENEWAL (JOINT OPERATION) (HNMW-11457, 4 APR 63) SAYS

THAT 30 LINES WERE COVERED.

THA TARGET SEVATLABLE AE STATION ADDHE ONAL OPERATION NASTY

LIFEAT TUNILATERALS WHICH COVERED 23 LINES.

A PROGRESS

REPORT COVERING PERIOD NOV/DEC 63 (HMMA-22857, 6 FEB 64)

PROVIDES IDENTIFICATION OF THE TARGETS.

THIS DISPATCH

LISTS TWO LINES COVERED IN CONNECTION WITH THE: AMSTRUT

OPERATION.

WEJANNOT IDENTIFY AMSTRUT AND THUS DO NOT KNOW

F THIS IS COVERAGE OF ANY OFFICIAL CUBAN INSTALLATION

NOV 63.

PLS IDENTIFY THE THREE UNILATERAL TELTAP TARGETS

MENTIONED PARA 4D REF.

INFORMATION ON THE CAMERA LOCATIONS OR

PHOTOGRAPHS IS

NOT AVAILABLE STATION,

FO WOULD PREFER THAT MEETINGS WITH KNOWLEDGEABLE

MEXICAN OFFICIALS BE ARRANGED THROUGH THE EMBASSY.

6a. STATION WILL OFFER EVERY ASSISTANCE AND COOPERATION

VITH

THE HSCA INVESTIGATORS. HOWEVER, THE FACT THAT THE

SECRET

10t75.

---

## Page 3

SECRET

STAFF

78 0718681

PAGE 003

TOP: 1815467 MAY 78

IN 0718681

MEXI 45116

sil

WILL BE INVESTIGATING TELTAP OPERATIONS

CAUSES US CONSIDERABLE CONCERN.

DURING PAST YEAR,

WE HAVE

ENCOUNTERED INCREASING SENSITIVITY ON PART OF OUROL

LIAISON COUNTERPARTST AS RESULT OF REVELATIONS AND EXPOSES

CONCERNING CIA AND FBI ACTIVITIES IN MEXICO. ONE OF THE

MOST SENSITLYE OPERATIONS EROM THE MEXICAN POINT OF VIEW

THE MEXICANS DRAW) A VERY ISTINCT LINE BETWEEN REVELATIONS

IS TELTAPS, LAS SUCH ACTIVITY IS UNCONSTITUTIONAL IN MEXICO Y

ABOUT CIA ACTIVITIES ORIGINATING FROM CRITICS AND ENEMIES

AND THOSE BEARING THE IMPRIMATUR OF THE U.S, GOGERNMENT.

THE RELEASE OF THE FBI DOCUMENTE

J (CFO MEXICO

CITY 43110) •

24

7. ANY PUBLIC REVELATION BY THE HSCA OF

MAY. WELL RESULI IN THE CURTAILMENT

RUF THESE

AND THE LIAISON WHICH HAS BEEN ASSIDUOUSLY

DEVELOPED OVER THE YEARS, PLUS THE VERY REAL LOSS OF HIGH-LEVEL

REPORTING SOURCES e

8. NO FILE, EZ, IMPDET.

END

OF MESSAGE

SECRET

---

