# 104-10215-10058

## Page 1

104-10215-10058

SECRET:

17 AUG 1962

TO

Chief, WE Division

ATTEN.

FROM

:

SUBJECT:

1001 35 2513

J WE/S

Deputy Director of Security (Investigations and Support)

LETTER ADDRESS

#278 830

Reference 1s made to your memorandun dated 14 August 1962

requesting the establishment of a post office box

in New Jork City

In the name of humphrey R. BONCAVIL.

2.

This will confirm advice furnished your Office on 17 August 1952

that the requested address has been established as follows:

Humphrey R. BONCAVIL

P. 0. Box 892

eneral roat 0111

This address will be maintained for an indefinito period of time

and idll be serviced once a week.

Room 3B 2613•

upon receipt of madl, it will be forwarded

4. lon-registered, first class and eir mail, bearing the above

acaress as a return address, may be mailed by you at any convenient

letter box in the area where this facility 1s established.

Registered

mail and parcel post should be forarded to this Office for secure

na11ing.

Any nail having special security significance should be co-

arcinated with this office prior to mailing. Mail bearing the above

address as a return address should not be handled by the Central Mail

Room.

5. It 1s requested that you advise this office when the above

address is no longer of use to you.

Any inquiries concerning this

facility should be directed to the SD/3 Desk of this Office, Room GE 73

Langley, extension 6851.

FOR THE DIRECIOR OF SECURITY:

for Victor

San her brot

SECRET

Easterd tea actu

EN28T8488 830

taclasai fisaftaa

4

---

