. oS Q

DioTR:
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

ACTION: : Dare: 29 MAY 1963
pain : : a

2918202 IN 21739

OPERATIONAL | ITH
IMMEDIATE

"° PRITY DIK PACY
DYVOUK PBRUMEN QKYBAT
KEFS SJOS 6819 «SOT SENT PACY)

1. ACC ORD ING HULAKE=1 MANUEL ANTONIO VARONA LOREDO, PP 4OLIS,
LEFT SJOS FOR FACY GN PAR S01 OF 28 HAY. IN SyOS HE STAYED AT
HOTEL BALMORAL AND WAS IN CONTACT WITH UNIDENTIFIED PBPRIMER WHO
PAID BALMORAL BILL AND ACCOMPANIED VARONA TO PACYs

2. IN TALK WITH H=% VARQVA SAID HE TALKED WITH PRES IDENT
ORLICH CN MOFMING 28 MAY ABOUT POSSIBILITY ESTABLISH BUSINESS
CONNECTIONS IN COSTA RICA, Ww CUBA, VARKONA TOLD ORLICH HE
BELSEVED ODYOKE HAD POSTPONED THE PROBLEM AND BLAMED MIKO CARDONA
FOR DOWNFALL CONSEJO REVOLUCIGNARIO CUBANO. Sara se

Se VARCNA ASKED H-1 AID IN PREPARING FALSE CUBAN PASSPORTS»

SAID HE HAD COVEKS oF OLD CUBAN PASSPORTS IN MIAMI WHICH HE WOULD

SEND Hely IF Hei COULD GET INSIDE PACES. PRINTED HERE. THESE

PASSPORTS TO BE. USED BY CUBAN EXILES, WHO HAD ARRIVED MIAMI FROM

HAVA WITHOUT EOCUMENTATION, FOR TRAVEL THROUGHOUT CENTRAL AMERICA

IN CONNECTION WITH VARGNA BUSINESS AFFAIRS» VARONA ADDED THAT HE

HAD BEEN DEALING WITH QNE CONRADO RODRIGUEZ, CUBAN, IN PANAMA FOR

PASSPORTS BUT HAD !0T BEEN SUCCESSFUL s

INCOMING

nro WAVE ia SEs Jos I

a

NE HOPED TO DISCUSS MATTER

qe


DisTR:
ACTION:

INFO:

OPERATIONAL
IMMEOIATE,

INFO Cie

FURTHER WITH RODRIGUEZ UPOY ARRIVAL—PANAMA«
Me SOURCES HULAKE-1 (C) EVAL PARA-1, (293 PARA 2-3, 2)
HAT VARONA MADE STATEMENTS) DISSEM? ORALLY TO ADACIDs AND ODIZEx.
5+ FOR PACY! REF REPORTED VARGUA AND MANUEL AKT INE ARRIVAL
SU0S.
END OF MESSAGE

GROUP 1 = EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC DOWNGRADING AND DECLASS IFICATION

H ics INCOMING

TWPAGE Quew Ta

