io4-t0771-(0008

rors

SECRET

OFORN/CONT'D CONTRO UFG-1297

—25_ July_1962

—+
Harold’ P, noemarnlEM?
rrr

Oliver K, PAPOC

C4 A O4 Gena

drew K, RE

GYROSE .

- Source: Thé information attached to this report fell into
‘the hands of JMWAVE through two distinct channels, Sometine
prior to 7 July 1962 ANCOG-2 through a cut-out had delivered
to AMBLEAK-2 some material, AMCOG-2 does not know AMBLEAK-2,
AMBLEAK-2 brought 4t out to AMBLEAK-1 who on7? July 1962
turned the "pouch" over. to HAWLOTT, AMBLEAK-~1's C/O, C/O
intercepted this “pouch” and xeroxed the covor pages of the
reports which were generated by (AUIMPEX; the material was

ogthen re-inserted ,in the "pouch" and sent on its way, The

Tausrex reportevscheduled for the ANSPELL organization, It
5S assumed that the AMSP"ELL roceived the material in due
course, and they in turn delivered the material to NOEMAYR(P)
the AMSPELL C/O, on or about 19 July,

This is the background to a story which now gains new
importance, The information which was copied by HAWLOTT is.
not reflected in toto in the material eventually received

by NOEMAYR, thus the xeroxed copies of some of the documents,
original copies for which were not received from the AMSPELL
organization,

PRICAT(N tw ACCOWDANYING FCPOR
Pistwisutiow

GPT GAL: ENTRIES BCLow Atio wot at FHueo 18 te

: TaTeaT AGEREY
: ? in Govt Doctitients on Ymport/Export of Food Yteus.

3 ~ Headquarters.w/mat & att. | yy Riporks

1 - o0/c :

1 - File i

Countay NO. OF tActosunES neat

wercaentte

iobelntigineememeee

: SECRET Toor
INOFORN/CONT'D CONTROL
7 AGT Pr 1G~/aguae/e
RN TO CIA
RETURN use Only
Do Not Reproduce

: ; alee


Teer tes

?
?

SECRET
NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL

REPORT COVER SHFET (continued)
Operational security precludes a confrontation of the AMSPELL

organization, therefore Headquarters. will have to be satisfied
with copies of the original documents for. some of the import/

export items, and with xeroxed copies of merely the cover sheets *

for some of the other Fl ee a en

“This whole d story has had one positive reaction, On 24 July *
1962 ‘at 1930 hours NOEMAYR and PAPOCK will be visiting the intel- ~
ligence components of the AMSPELL- organization to see what type
of information they might have which does not, has not, and L
probably was not going to be forwarded to NOEMAYR,

io

Place acquired changed to Cuba to facilitate dissemination,

According..to.the DRE the ultimate source i:
The Covering note from the DI 7 6.
n exile nted out that these documents were originals, and that

the information in them is available-to Dorticos, Fidel, Carlos
Rafael Rodriguez and two or three other people. An evaluation
of this material would be appreciated from KULYNX,.

PLEASE NOTE: The enclosed attachments are unique, There are no
other copies available,

S-E-C-R-E-T
NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL

eben.
