104-10185-10418}

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

‘This materia contains information affecting the National Defense of the United Scatea within the meaning of the Hupionage Laws, Tide
38, OSC. Secs. 753 and TH the trunumission of revelation of which in aay manner tc aa uracthoriaed pean te prohibited by law,

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSE

COUNTRY Cuba ‘linen’ REPORT NO. CS -311/02108-G4
SUBECT Policy Guidance Directives for DATE O1STR. 18 August 1964
Cuban Intelligence Representatives
in Panama as Issued by the MA NO.PAGES =O

Department (Intelligence) of the
DGI ‘ REFERENCES CS-311/00115-64

A CS-311/00345-64

DATE OF 1964

INFO.

PLACE &

DATE ACQ._(June 1964 : FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS 1S UNEVALUATED INFOWMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE APPRAISAL OF CONTENT 16 TENTATIVE,

SOURCE,” “A formé#. Cuban officer who served with the Cutan Intelligence
‘ Service until April 1964.

Headquarters Comment. The following is a translation of a
document which: source. provided this Agency and concerns the y
General Directorate of Intelligence (Direccion General de
Inteligencia - DGI) MA Department's polic: guidance directive
for Cuban intelligence representatives in Paca

Department no longer exists, as such, having teen divided
into two departments: Illegal Department (Ilegal) and the
National Liberation Department (Likeracion Nacional - LN).

DIRECTIVES OF THE M-A SECTION B RETURN 70 CIA
ackground Use Only
COUNTRY: PANAMA Do Not Ri Reproduce
IMPERATIVE
1. Collective Action
2. Anti-Guerrilla Schools

3. Position of the Political Parties Toward the Cuban
Revolution

4, Relations with the U.S.A,
5. Cubans in the Yankee Army
6, Revolutionary Organizations

7. Movement of Solidarity with Cuba

5

4 S-E-C-R-E-T

3 NO FOREIGN DISSEM ——

2 fase

i =]
[sae Teom Tata Tae To Trea Toce TFET
REPCINCLANT _ CINCSO 2 _ISNS

‘tate: Bald distribution indicated by “27

{NP (AMMUG-1)
CS-311/02108-64

ry

verms1E 3, CI 21, RID/AN 1, WH/SA 46 (3), SR 4, *
wi 23 G4), AF 8 (3), EE & (10), FE 12 (8), SB 9)

POR NO. + sees



Hdqrs Dissem

WH/COPS
WH/PO/A
WH/PO/B

WH/2

wH/2 1
WH/3

WH/3/V

wH/4

WH/S

WH/6

WH/R .

WH/SA/EOB
WH/SA/MOB
WH/SA/R:
WH/SA/Int
WH/SA/CI
WH/SA/SO/NS

we

BPP BE BE RO BO BOM RO Be

cI/staff ©
CI Liaison ,
CI/REA
RID/AN

AF/1
AF/2
i AF/3
AF/4
AF/R
AF/CL

EE/K
EE/SA
EE/BR
EE/YA
BE/H
EE/P
EE/C
EE/LIS

FE/PMI/I
FE/JKO/JO
FE/JKO/K
on FE/VNC/VN
FE/R
FE/CI

NE/AA/L&S
NE/AA/AP
NE/AA/E
NE/AA/1
NE/5/P
NE/6/C&I
NE/Intel
NE/CI
WE/L
WE/2
WE/3
WE/4

ypl ee ve

ened

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

-la-

WE/S
WE/BC
WE/R

SR/CI
SR/CI/K
SR/RR
SR/0/WH

e Dat pet tt pat

WH/NEXE

WH/MNTY:
WH/MRID
WH/SDOM
WH/PIBO
WH/POSN’
WH/KNGS
WH/PRIN
‘WH/GORG
WH/PACY
WH/MANA
WH/SJOS
WH/SALV
WH/TEGU
WH/GUAT
WH/LAPA
WH/BOGO
WH/QUIT
WH/GAYA
WH/LIMA
WH/CARA
WH/BUEN
WH/COBA
WH/MONT
WH/ASUN
WH/SAGO
WH/RIOD
WH/CURI

WH/BRIL
WH/SAOP
WH/BHIA
WHt/BEHO
WH/LGRE
WH/RECI

PE Pat at bee Dat tat tt Pa Patt at tat et Pt at Pt Dt Dat et fa at at Bd a da

WH/SA/WAVE

AF/ALGI
AF/ORNA
AF/RABA
AF/CASB
AF/ACCR
AF/CNRY
AF/BAKO
AF/DARE

Meee on

EE/VIEN
EE/SBUR
EE/CYRU
EE/ATHE
EE/KAVA

ne ee

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

CS-311/02108-64

EE/SLON
EE/BERN
EE/GNVA
EE/ZURI
EE/HAMB

FE/DJAK
FE/MEDN

~2i
=?

ty

NE/KUWA
NE/KAHI
NE/DACC
NE/LAHO
NE/RAWL
NE/BAGH
NE/BEIR
NE/DAMA
NE/ALEP
NE/JIDD
NE/DAHA
NE/TAIZ
NE/CAIR
NE/ALEX

E/BRUS a
I

WE/ROME
WE/MILA

j/E/HAGI

WE/MADR:

WE/BAR
cee

WE/PARI

Liaison Dissem

Liaison Dissem __
i H

1
1 tea
L/WASH| 1

Ye te Fae Pat Fat at Pat Pt Da ft eta Pat at at Pa Da Pa Da fat Dt bp Pt Pat ab Pa Pt ttt tp


12,
13.
14,
15.

16.
17.
18.

S-PAC-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

-2- CS-31L- 02108-64

Canal Zone i

Situation of the leftist forces

Repressave codies within Panama

Panamanian Communist Party

IMPORTANT. :

Internal Political life of the country :
Situation within the Armed forces

The Church

Functions, characteristics, and data on menters of the
foreign service and Diplomatic Corps accredited to the

country. esseeeeeSSieoe
NECESSARY

The Press y
Government structure and organizational functions

Collaborators concerning the national economy.

INTELLIGENCE GUIDANCE AND OBJECTIVES
COUNTRY ;* PANAMA

IMPERATIVE

COLLECTIVE ACTIO:

7) Military or political measures adopted in Latin

American anti-Cuban Regional Organizations in
which the Panamanian Government participates.

b) Use of Panamanian territory for Latin American
or Yankee military operations - participating
armies - units-and their effectives. Date of
operations - methods and places of arrival -
exit from Panama - their destination,

c) The use of Panamanian soldier contingents in
operations against Cuba. Units and commanding :
officers of units that would participate.

d). Meetings, of a military and political nature,
held in Panama: Agenda, agreements, and plans
worked out at these meetings, Coordination of
activities against Cuba worked out at these
meetings ~ Panamanian representatives at meetings.

e) Topics discussed at CDCA meetings. CDCA discussions
on Cuba, Agreements and plans formulated.

S-E-~C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM


S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

-3- CS-311/02108-64

f) Measures taken concerning Cuban travel.

g) Possibilities of rupture with Cuba by Latin American
countries that still maintain them (gic).

COUNTER IRGENCY_ SCHOOLS i

a) Counter-insurgency schools maintained by ae
Imperialism in Panama and the Canal Zone - ©
especially the Canal Zone.

b) Latin Americans attending these courses; duration
of training cycle; name, rank, and nationality.

¢) ounterrevolutionary elements attending anti-,

e)

t)

8)

guerrilla courses either as instructors or —
trainees; name and rank, Army of current assignment
and thé’ duration of their training cycle.

Manuals and.texts used in counter-insurgency schools,
Special weapons ~- duration of training cycle.

Specialist schools (i.e. Paratroopers, Frogmen) in
Yankee bases. Location of these bases. =

Elements training at Fort Davis as CIA agents or
specialists in the various Latin police forces.
Name, .rank, and nationality of trainees and the
duration of their training cycle.

“Manuals used at the Fort Davis training school,

their techniques and identity of instructors.
Panamanians taking these courses.

POSITION OF POLITICAL PARTIES TOWARD THE CUBAN REVOLUTION,

a)

b)

ce)

Their attitude toward the II Havana Declaration.

Their attitude toward Cuban-Soviet relations
affecting Cuba and world peace,

Their reaction toward accusations that Cuba is a
Communist base for aggression toward Latin America,

RELATIONS WITH THE UNITED STATES.

a)
b)
c)

a)

e)
ft)

Alliance for Progress. Peace Corps.
Relations with American loan organizations.

American military assistance and the role of the
American military mission,

Training of Panamanian military personnel in
American schools.

Location of American bases.

Special forces schools in Panama.

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM


S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

4 CS-311,02108-64

g) Naval Order of Battle - fleet identification -
types of vessels - number of vessels ~ unit
identification.

h) American troop concentrations. Movement observed

= within bases. Movement of ships, aircraft, ete.
Inform whether the tuild-up during the crisis has
been maintained or reduced. e iz

EE ARNY. .

a) Cuban counterrevolutionaries in Yankee Aray bases
in Panama; especially Kotte Base, Fort Gulick, and
Rio Hato. Punta Nala and Mamintoes. Units to which
these mercenaries are assigned - their numbers.

. Name and rank of their officers. Length of time
they have been in the American Army. Date of their

arrival in Panama.

b) Informtion concerning the arrival of new contingents
~" of-Cuban mercenaries in Yankee bases in Panama ~
- method of transport and their point of departure.

) “Yankee and mercenary troop concentrations carried
out in the Canal ‘Zone and Yankee bases in Panama.
Ostensible reasons for their presence. Maneuvers
in Panama in which Latin American units have participated
and their arrival there. Army involved, units, and

their strength.

d) Movements of Yankee personnel from the Canal Zone
“that would denote special preparations or situations,

6. COUNTERREVOLUTIONARY ORGANIZATIONS.

a) Counterrevolutionazy organizations operating in Panama.

- Identity of leaders. Their government contacts and
assistance received. Their contacts with other national
sectors ~ their contact mechanisa,

bd) Communications between organizations (counterrevolutionary)
in Panama and their headquarters in Miami, Their
contacts in Cuba,

7. MOVEMENT OF SOLIDARITY WITH CUBA

a) Verify whether the Movement of Solidarity with Cuta has:
been formed. How does it function. Identity of

leaders, etc.

b) The potential of active manifestations bk: progressive
organizations in favor of solidarity,

8. CANAL ZONE.

a) The necessity of Canal Zone penetration via press
reports of same,

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM


A

10,

b)

ce)

4)

e)

£)

S+E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

-5- CS=311/02108-64

Operations data, Entry gnd Exit control regulations.
Requirements for movement within the zone, Documentation
required. Internal customs. Regulations concerning
ships and creve while in the cana!/zore.

ration with details

Civil and Military internal admin

.of its organization and structure. Data on orincipal

officials.

Intolerable economic and-politica) turmoil caused by
the Canal Zone maritime activities in Panama.
Entry and exit of canal, Disparity in wages between
North Americans and Latin Americans. Effect of
canal zone commercial establishments on Panamanian
commerce, Attitude of Yankee officers and soldiers

‘toward Panamanian nationals and their public officials.

Policy of racial discrimination in the Canal Zone.

Jamaican negro population and their relations with
Jamaica, .

Hindu population in the Canal Zone and their relations
with British Guiana.

SITUATION OF LEFTIST FORCES,

a)

b)

c)

a)
e)
f)
«)
h)

4)
”

Leftist political organizations - their liaison
arrangements.

Student movement: structure, strength, and orientation
of its organizations, The need of collaborators to
provide information on these matters,

Workers" and Peasant organizations: structure,
strength, degree of unity, leaders, work that

they carcy on, Imperialist penetration, ORIT.
Propaganda media of leftist forces.

Repressive measures against leftist forces.

Attitude of leftists toward insurrection,

Leftist attitude toward the Cuban Revolution,

Effects of the Caribbean crisis on the Teftist
forces, and consequences.

Periodic and permanent contact with the Left.

Information on Leftist reaction toward. the
political and economic changes taking place in
Cuba.

REPRESSIVE FORCES,

a) Repressive forces operative in Panama. Their

function, organization, tactics, leaders, and
otficers.

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM



ll.

b)

co)

4)

£)

8)

S-E-C-R-E-T
NG FOREIGN DISSEN

iaslt,: Hise C5-311/02108-64

Pians and objectives of internal repression.
Tactics utilized against the Literation: Movement
and Solidarity with Cuta. Their objectives ia
the struggle against these movements.

Agreements in effect now tetween Panamanian and
Central and Latin American reoressive bodies.
Meetings held to coordinate repressive measures,
within the Zone. Dates, place, and identity of
those attending meetings. Agreements reached to
fight against the Liberation and Cuban Solidarity
Movements. Practical measures taken to carry them

out.

a)"Foreign advisers of the repressive forces (Yankees).

Name, rank, -amd role of advisers. Specific cases
in.which these advisers have intervened. "DENI"

activities,

“Police regional schools established in Panama

or Canal Zone, Instruction offered, Training
cycle. Manuals (obtain copies). Instructors.
Panamanian nationals and other Latin Americans
taking these courses, Name, rank, and nationality,

Central Intelligence Agency. Foreign heads in Panam
Their name and duties. CIA offices. CIA objectives
in Panama. Their plans to accomplish these plans.
CIA‘s national net, Their outstanding operatives;
their namo, rank,and duties. Their principal
targets. Penetration of CIA net.

Interpol contacts. Coordination with Interpol,
Restrictive measures on Cuban travel. Agents.

COMMUNIST PARTY OF PANAMA,

a)
b)
c)

dq)

Its attitude toward the II Havana Declaration.
Its attitude toward Cuban-Soviet Relations,

Its attitude toward the direction of Cuban
national and international policies.

Its attitude or position regarding the
International Communist Movement Schism.

1) China-USSR.

2) Albania-USSR.

3) Yugoslavia~China-USSR~Albania.
4) Peace Movement.

5) Peaceful Co-existence.

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM



12,

=)

5-E~ E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

-7-

The Party's Internal Situation

CS-311/02108-64

1) Strongth, Jeadare (data on leaders)

‘The Party's relations with other leftist elements.

_ 2) Possibilities of Unity. Their work with

Official Agitation policy of the Party.

Its position as to the unity of the Central
American Parties, regarding the development

Their work on Solidarity with Cuba.

Party finances ~ source of their finances.

Establishment of periodic and permanent contact with

Bourgeois Political parties, composition, strength,

leaders, biographic data on
internal dissensions, and their

position concerning the Canal Zone.

Relations of bourgeois political parties with
North American monopolies, with the American
Embassy, Canal authorities, and the church,

Their posture - attacks

on Cuba, Leaders, Fraternal Secret Organizations.
Relations with the Panamanian Government and the

Bourgeois political parties' relations with Armed

Bourgeois politicians who havé supported popular

demonstrations against the Canal Zone.

e)
2) Disputes.
1)
With V.A.N.
1) Disputes,
mass organizations.
6)
of guerrilla action.
4)
j) Propaganda media.
k)
rs)
the Communist Party of Panama.
IMPORTANT
PANAMA'S INTERNAL POLITICS.
a)
propaganda media,
leaders, programs,
b)
c) Anti-Communist campaigns.
“Yankee” Embassy.
d)
Forces.
e)
these politicians.
£)

Date on

Thelma King. Biographic data, past activities,

and contacts.

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN ‘DISSEM


13.

14.

is.

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

-8- CS-31102108-64

ARMED FORCES INTERNAL SITUATION.

a) Armed. Forces: Structure, corps. equipment,
strength, corps organization. principal ~
barracks or camps.

>) Data on military leaders and their activities.

©) Coup d'état groups within the Armed Forces.

d) Military relations with other Latin American
countries,

e) Ideological indoctrination of the Armed Forces.
Program postures and media.

f). Data.on Panamanian Military figures in international
organizations U.N., Inter-American Defense Board),
military attachés.in and from Latin American
countries,

8): Plans for counter- ~insurgency ‘training.

h) Armed Forces relations wath the Church; .

THE CHURCH. is ‘

a) Ecclesiastical Hierarchy. i

b) PoSition and controversies tetween foreign and
national clergy.

¢) Participation of the Church in internal politics,

4) The Church's secular organizations (i.e. Catholic
Working Youth). .

e) The Church's campaign against Cuta.

f) The Church's penetration of peasants, workers, and
students, ; ‘ cree

&) ‘The Church's relations with Canal Zone Authorities.

h) Inter-relationships between Plans o of the Church and
the U.S.A.

4} The Church's relations with the Panamanian Government.

J). Influence of the Church on education.

FUNCTIONS, CHARACTERISTICS, AND DATA ON MEMBERS OF THE FOREIGN
SERVICE AND THE DIPLOMATIC CORPS ACCREDITED TO THE COUNTRY.

a)
b)

UN. fe . i ft

OAS, Inter-American Defense Board.

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN: DISSEM i


36.

18.

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

-%- €S-311/02108-64
c) Panamanian officials in Latin American countries;
batin. American officials in Pa .
4) Information obtained in diplomatic circles regarding:
the ‘internal life of the country.
‘e) pt piaaiatanid of official documents, seals, signatures,
NECESSARY :
THE PRESS.
a) Data on journalists and diffusion media in Panana
b) Possibilities of using these journalists within the

country’and abroad.

“STRUCTURE OF GOVERNMENT AND ORGANIZATIONAL FUNCTIONS.

a)
b)

e)
4)

e)
ft)

Relations between the Executive and the Ministries.

The function of Congress, its most outstanding figures.
Relations with the "Yankee" Emtassy, the North

* American monopolies, and the canal authorities.

Data on the closest colletorators of R. Chiari.

The Judicial Power. Personalities occupying high
positions. Important laws. Repressive laws.
Relations of the Judicial branch with other
branches of the government.

Other governmental organs ~ their functions.

The necessity of recruiting collaborators to
gather information on these issues.

SPOTTING OF COLLABORATORS TO INFORM ON TKZ NATIONAL ECONOMY.

a)
b)

ce)

New economic policy of United Fruit.
North American investments.

Position of Panama regarding Central American
economic integration,

S~-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

