# 104-10186-10273

## Page 1

104-10186-10273

5

4

1

3/Pd

NEORI

CANNO

HON KERORT

CENTRAL IN ELLIGENCE AGENCY

Tata malertal retains informativa añortina le Dallano Daton di tro

1R CBC

RETURN TO CIA

Sere 191 and roe the vantaisain de traiale de sono in my manere whin the manios of the me e figround Use Only

SECAST

NO FOREION DISSEM

•an unautharte permes le prammiDo Not Reproduce

coUNTry Cuba

REPORT NO.

CSCI-316/00695-6€

SUWECT RamirO RODRIGUEZ GOmeZ

DATE DISTR. 25 August 1964

NO. PAGES 3

REFERENCES

DATE OF 1964

INFQ

PLACE &

Washington, D.C.

DATE ACO, AugUSt 1964

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED

INFOAMATION, SOUBLE FRADINGE ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTINT I$ TENTATIVE.

SOURCH A former Cuban IS officer aio served with the Cuban

Intelligence Service until April 1964.

Headquarters Comments:

he rollowing report is one of & series containing personalit

information provided by

the source and includes supplementa

information from the records of this Agency.

It 1s requested that the addressees take no action on any

of the individuals

mentioned in the personality reports

without first checking with this Agency.

amiro RODRIGUEZ Gomez is the Chief of the Direccio

oneral de Intellsonoia (Gonoral Directorate of Intellivence

DGI) in Brazil.

Headquarters Comments

1. In a report dated 8 June 1955,

a representative of this

Agency obtained the following

'information fron an official

Cuban Servico:

Gomez

as Secretary General: since 1953, it has been

controlled

the Progressive Labor Bloc.

that RODRIGUEZ, an actire Party member and director of

the Comate de Lucho, was a former candidate for councilman

for the Partido

Socialssta Popular (PSP). le has not

been admitted into the usion.

STATE

SECRET

NO FOREIGI DISSEM

I NIS

5

4

3

2

1

1 DIA

1 ARMY.

REP CINCHANT

I NAV

CINCSO A : LANS

18820K

i oce

FBI 2

INFORM

MON REPOR

ORMA

LHON RERORT

AH 'SA EOB

NI S.J. XUB

WEL MADR

CURSA

LNI SA EL11

RID/AX.

VI RIES.

POTALE

NH/SA 7 (1), WEI (2), CI A, E1D 1

6191800 +

-3X-1541

50 PROJECT (AMMUG/!

ESCI-316/00695-61

• CCORDINATIMO

Hillay

WAK:LD: Swk

FARNE 800

201-331829

---

## Page 2

F. C R

ET

NO

FOREIGN DISSEM

= 2-

2:

3.

4.

5.

6.

A usunlly reliable source, in a report dated 2 March 1962, reported

on the travel of Cubans through Rio de Janeiro during November

and December 1961.

Included on the list was Ramiro RODRIGUEZ

Gomes wo arrived from Habana on 27 November 1961.

He carried

Diplomatic Passport Number 570 with Visa number D-407 Issued in

Habana on 27 December 1961.. Iis date and place of birth were

A usually reltable source, in a

report dated 23 April 1962,

that Ramiro RODRIGUEZ Gomez was the First Sccretary of the

Embassy in Rio de Janeiro.

An unknown source, in August 1962, reported that Ramiro RODRIGUEZ,

who arrived in Brazil on 28 December 1961, as First Secretary,

formerly the First Secretary of the Cuban Embassy

in Venezuela

and was identified as a G-2 agent there.

He was born

11 March 1928. He was Secretary General of the Match Industry

Workers' Union before 1961, at a time when it was in the hands

of the Communists.

In a report dated 20 December 196%, a fairly reliable source gave

the following information on Ramiro RODRIGUEZ, Charge d'Affaires

of the Cuban Embassy

in Rio de Janeiro.

He is about five feet

eight inches tall, 150 pounds, has a mall mustache, black hair,

• swarthy complexion, dresses weld, is very poised socially,

has a quick mind and is rather introverted. He was born about

= L

in a report dated 28 December 1962,

said that kamiro NODRIGUEZ Gomed is suspected Cuban intelligence.

Since December 1961, he has been the First Secretary.at the

Cuban Embassy in Rio de Janeiro. He was formerly the First

Secretary at the Cuban Embassy in Caracas and was said to be

head of G-2 there and responsible for organizing the November

1961 attacks on Cuban exiles in Caracas.

In a report dated June 1963 an unknown source said that his

assistant was told by Ramiro RODRIGUEZ that there would be almost

a complete changeover of personnel shortly; he added that only

the Commercial Attache, Camilo DOMENECH Gaden, would not be

It was reported in August 1963, that Ramiro RODRIGUEZ, former

Charge d'Affaires of the Cuban Embassy in Rio de Janeiro,

still in Rio de

Janeiro, apparently he had not completely briefed

new ambassador.

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

1/pd

---

## Page 3

14-00000

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

18 August 1963, for Cuba and returned to Rio de Janciro on

• 28 November 1963.

Source observed that RODRIGUEZ has been

do a bad humor since his return and is rude to his former

frlends, including Nivea Brasil. wife of the Communist,

Colonel

Jocclyn BRASIL.

RODRIGUEZ and Mrs. BRASIL were on

very Intimato

RODRIGUEZ spurns her attempts at being chummy again.

teras (according lo sourca, adulterous" source

feels that RODRIGUEZ is up to something Special and notes

that he is in close contact with General Luiz Gonzaga LEITE,

the organtal of the cuba solidarity Concerns decord a 4

tO RODRIGUEZ®

RODRIGUEZ was born on 11 March 1928,

in Habana.

Hys wife is IseT DOMINGUEZ de Armas and they

have one daughter, Eva RODRIGUEZ Dominquez, who was born

about 1950.

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSES

---

