# 104-10229-10423

## Page 1

104-10229-10423

February 16, 1965

Yo dehn Do Eltch, Inatruotor

Linicoy Hopi:ing Education Center

1410 5 to 2nd Avenue.

Ma21, Forida

6,

Rog

Hard, Florida

Dear He. Fitch!

This 13 in roply to your comonts on tho last ending cheat rogardine

the acore captionod Individual. I approciate your passing along thoze

Coments.

leano in so doe me today and lools that ho would llo to

cortise on 1n tho mochanteal drafting as well as in. tho brole prolind.

nary wort which he has been taking in draitne. Thore are nono things

utica I sould 11ko to pass alone to you ol wilch you may not be avaro.

Up untal a yoor ogo

was a corcro opileptic and had razy

At that tião, ho lnd a crandal o-cration wich hea helped hin

corchderably. Moro recently in tho loot aight montha, he states that de:

hea fat I1 suizureo, one of viich was in your class.

mis 1o 1Inblo to

kare on occasion, but dot vory froquentlys and, of courso, if the clada

¿no-s 1t end you no avaro of 1t, thoro 13 no rouson to bo disturbed by 1to

8a8 coricus 10 probably the fact that ho lo undor roddentlen barbitu

roter o, ore kind or crothor - under preceriftion of a doctor to grryent

hie fee luring actzures, and thio tendo to mko hin oporato alowly andy.

of cor,c0, to bo droway. lowover, he statoa that ho has nover callon

aalecy in tho claos.

Prestore 401.13, ho had tikon one yoar of electrieal oncincoring 1r.

Kararas is do vory sericuo about leurning nachine desin and 13 intcrcated

In t:10 arca.. lo

statco that ho has netu: copied a oinclo drawing and hoo

done sacagthing on his own.

I aloo gucatiored him au to vhotlor ho undor

cecca Jour lecturos and what you put on the blacktoard, an' ho ctetco that

ho does but that ho works alonly

.I thoucht that 11 ho cold ap. ly roro

thro, stat ho probibly vould bo able to koop up carier boin: ono uno vorke

Blonly and draftine boing a couroo bäsed primarily on the anount of tise

apriles lo sald that he thought that he could come in about 15 minutoa

early aed do a littlo work bofore the clase started, but that he cculd sot

work at hone for lack of inotrumenta and that the room was clooed to him

except for this 15 stauto period.

315V

---

## Page 2

14-00000

tit o 7liod

Fobruary 16, 7905

rajo ?

I ncircointo jour ausuction about archit-ctural draftárgo

I fool tri-t 11

hli silich 1s sia sica, that ho will not pribisly do any bottor those than

ho could in your clara

Tho tito civon at tho Univoraley of !:1r1, shich

voro glvon bot 1a in :11ah and In salon, inleitrd that lire lier.a-10z hed.

antitudo for ecclarical or reiltretural crafting, nuvortiolne lujo t verla

pattorn ma:ino deslini. c

otchhe, oner.vinc and varionc berch erd crast

voris 1150, 07 tie Fovlaad Dota ännination ho scorod a rat1-- os 63 nich

in everajo

to oliatly ab avora. It 10 folt that de anility and dillla

ero hold back contrasly by hla alonullity and that otherrico, ho vould

bo porhano abovo averago.

Il 1t 13 noeca ara to drop hla fron the cinas, of asuroo, tils Li bonething

salch 15 un to jeu,

thank thit ho unould bo civon evory offortunity

conoldorins his Inturént In the voris and hic trying to mako & co at this.

Thank you for any ovurtosy extendod tilo nattor.

Sincorely jours,

Gordon D. Salti, Counselor

Vocational Rehablitation

GDSe cab

008

15no karla Svana

8'5, Carvin 111105

---

