xe)
ttn

ROM

io4-t01 1610082}

WS

USITED STATES GOVERNMENT é :

Memorandum

SEA-57-68
Director, DCS DATE: 7 February 1968
John W. McConnell

Chief, Seattle Office

Alleged Anti-CIA Comments made by Priests at Seattle University

Denvér memorandum DEN-51-68, dated 1 February 1968, with attachment

1. You will find attached a copy of a Memorandum for the Record
dated 31 January 1968 and written by Don Jordan of the Denver Office.
The text of the memorandum needs no further explanation.

2. I made a cursory check with local sources who were unable to
confirm or deny the allegations made by Mrs. Margaret Fanning, mother
of Miss Clare Louise Fanning who is currently a student at Seattle
University. Since the matter is not exactly in our ken and might be
of interest to the FBI I made a digest of the original memorandum and

gave a copy I Office. A copy of the digest was also
given to Mr. CIA 0/S, Seattle Resident Agent. A copy
of the digest Is attached. eattle FBI Office said that they probably

_will not take any action but would pass the information along to their
“headquarters in Washington DC. In all probability the information

will be attributed to the Seattle Field Office.

3. I made a further check with Colonel Michael J. Dolan, Place-
ment Officer, Seattle University, to determine if he had heard anything
about the subject matter-on the campus. Colonel Dolan works with Mr.
Thomas L. Culhane, CIA, OP/RD. Mr. Culhane says that Colonel Dolan
can be trusted to be discreet in any dealings that we might have with
him. Colonel Dolan was unable to give me any information of a sub-
stantive nature regarding Subject but stated that Miss Fanning is
having academic problems and her grade point has gone down steadily
since enrollment at Seattle University. Her present courses are all
taught by laymen so if she has any contact with the Jesuit priests the
contact would be outside of the classroom. It was Colonel Dolan's
opinion jthat the university administration would be very interested in
running down information of the nature outlined by Mrs. Fanning.
Colonel Dolan has stated he will make some discreet inquiries without
implicating either Mrs, or Miss Fanning.

| |

: i AGTURNTOCIA
CG aint Bacground Use Only
a fi @o Not
Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan : ee iene


Subject: Alleged Anti-CIA Comments made by Priests at Seattle University
y

4. Lf it is determined that there is any truth to the allegations
we will be advised. We suspect, however, that Miss Fanning is fabri-
cating in order to cover up her poor academic progress.

_— aspect ty
: “AYNETH. RICHARDSON
WHR:ks
cc: Chief, Denver Office (Attn: D. S. Jordan)

Attachments



@

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

7 31 January 1968

SUBJECT: Call from Mrs. Margaret Fanning Regarding Anti-CIA Activity
at the University of Seattle

1. On 18 January 1968, 1100 hours, the Denver Office received a
call-on the listed number from a woman who identified herself as

Mrs. Margaret Fanning.

Mrs. Fanning stated that she lives in Pueblo

and that at the time’ of the call she was at Stapleton Airport enroute
to Texas. Mrs.. Fanning's reason for calling us.was her great concern
about what her daughter, Clare, is being taught about the CIA and the
Kennedy assassination at the University of Seattle where Clare is @

student.

2. Mrs. Fanning has received several telephone calls recently
from Clare in which Clare informed her mother that some of the priests
at the University of Seattle (a Jesuit school) had convinced the students
_ that Garrison's theories about the assassination are correct and that the
“charges about the Agency's implication are'also correct. .

CIA and considers that the CIA 1:
stated that she tried to persuad
heard is totally untrue but Mrs.

3, Mrs. Fanning stated that her daughter is actually af
8 comparable to the Gestapo. Mrs. Fann:
le Clare that what she (the daughter) had
Fanning had no success whatsoever in

changing her daughter's viewpoint.

4, Mrs. Fanning also stated that Clare asked her to be sure not

to repeat to anyone any
“+. jat Seattle University had instruct

matters with their parents. Mrs. Fanning was obviously most upset that

a faculty member at a university,
students not to discuss matters presented to t

particularly a priest, had instructed
hem at the school with their

_parents. In this connection, I suggested to Mrs. Fanning that she poss
had legitimate grievance against the school and that she might write a
letter to the president on this particular item. ~ :

5. I also pointed out to her that if there is in progress at the

University of Seattle acti

the US internal security, the FBI would
_ appreciation for Mrs.
CIA which is apparently being dissemina

but pointed out that

vity which could be construed as a threat to

be interested. I expressed

Fanning's concern about the misinformation on the

there is very litt

ted at the University of Seattle
le we can do about such matters.

raid of the

ing

of the foregoing, information and that the priests
ed their students not to discuss these

ibly
