104-10186-10170}

‘The material contains information afecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Eapionage Laws, Tile
18, CBC Geos TH and TH the tranmaiaion of revelation of which In any manner to am Unauthorieed person ts prohibited by Tew.

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

REPORT NO, CSCI-316/00801-65 :

COUNTRY Cuba i
SUMECT “Beltran” (an alias) DATE DISTR. 17 February 1965
NO. PAGES 1 : '
REFERENCES: CS-311/00115-64
(page 11) U
DATE OF 8 July 1964
——— INFO, 1964 iJ

pace a Washington, D. C.
bate AcQ, January 1965 FIELD REPORT NO.
THiS 15 UNEVALUATED INFORMATION, SOURCE GAADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT 15 TENTATIVE,

A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence
Service until April 1964.

Headquarters Comments

The following report is oné of a series containing personality
information provided by the source and includes supplemental
information from the records of this Agency.

SOURCE:

It is requested that the adéressees take no action on any of :
the individuals mentioned in the personality reports without
first checking with this Agency.

1, “Beltran” is a photographer in the Laboratorio Fotografico
(Photographic Laboratory - LF) of the MI Department (Department
of Technical Operational Support) in the Direccion General de
Inteligencia (General Directorate of Intelligence - DGI). i

2. “Beltran," a negro, was born between 1930 and 1935. He
ds five feet seven inches tall, weighs between 145 and 150 povnds,
and has a slender build. He is described as being very effeuinate.2

Headquarters Comment
1. The records of this Agency reveal no identifiable information
on "Reltran."

mie men

- SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
FT MIREREN TNE cs EMRE 6° A Tusa RERR Toe
REP CINCLANT CINCSO * ENS
Te Fa dierbron Indeed 6) "B=

mn men

CX 2120
| NO PROJECT ( AMMUG

| GSCE-216/00801-6

~ Semnarmalae

