# 104-10234-10362

## Page 1

7104-10234-10362

SECRET

ISi"105.7

file

7 July 2965

ostma tran

KIMORANDOM FOR THE ESCORD

SUBJECT:

Palephone Couverartions with Serzio F. MADIHARITIA, 301-75937%

: 6 July 1965

do Subjeet called

Iv/c/71/IO Case oftIces on 6 July st

1500 hours to inions that he had very urgent and important Inforetion be

wanted to discuse. Subfeet vas ashed if he could elaborate or Bive a clus

an to what it was all about and be replied he could not discure it oper tha

telephone.

Sub joct was then aated 11 he could travel to herhington, D. C.,

und he replied he could not make it for at least tro days and added that

he felt ths information vun too hot to let it go that long a ties. Subject

me advised that ha rould be contacted by telephone Inter in the day.

2. Pub feet vas contected by phons at 1545 on 6 July, to ask him again

what made bla information so ungeut and thou it involved.

sus foct said 1t

Involved can Vietor ESPTIOSA who was presently in llew Ie; and that

ESPIOSA vorked for the Agency end had Just returned Iros Paris and Spala

and had to see someon from the Agency. Subject them gave ne ESPTOBA "

ddress and telephons mmber as 415 East Sod Street, Hew York City.

telephone HA. I-TOTs, In ease va siabed to contact ESPLIOSA. Subjoet.

BiBO stated that ha had given ESPIOSA the Heshington Stertle naber and

the mans of

Babjeet telephoned egain at 1615 to Inform that ISPIYOSA vas et

has st the monut and was plaming to go out and requested that somone

whould eall bin. Subject was taid that it vould be diffleult to contact him

1965, and reguasted to contact FBI 11a1s0n and brief then that ESPIROBA

mas again trying to contact the Agency and to please notify Burrena In Hew

Yorks of this fact. Mr. Sun IPPICH adrioed Me. CASTORO that the Burean

could not net as en internedlay for the Agency.

• So the above vas also Alecussed with M.

DC/wH/C/TI.

No 8. ALECCIA

SECRET

EACE Y

Exciate die pounte

Armissing

201-73-5374

---

