Hyg AE

yoush id rer corieb ab aX ASSASD

“OPILE TATLEZNUNBER/VOLUEE pled Fert, peepee
‘ 7

ivg. 2 —.-—--

I+ :
v
ixcuustve pars: __Gts
““qUSTODIAL UNTT/LOGATTON: :
Root: E

DELETIONS, UF ANY

RO PUCUMENTS MAY BE coPTnp on RinovEn FRO TMs FILE.



6.RIN Maurice



i

~ SECRET

a Fan

oa! :
DEE SIF ZF

22 -Septender 1955

b mailed tiv otters fron ston, De C., 08
yp One fater, and another to hovaver,
—_ Placed’ the letter toils fatner-iy envelope addressed
din

29 J
dn 80 doin,

snd the letter to thi ope _adiressed to his father,
When latters vere rece id both noting the

error, they exchinged letters, Hovever,

ihe lettsr he kad at first received i-nortat e
brotiery vho dn tum referred it

consicered tho contents of
noush to tum over to his
to the Boston Office of

the FBI.

The letter, in substence, indteated that wills ¥28 serving in _
‘South & tea, Fam aie seorcy, Be. had Puvealod his trus. status.
to his tife's .tatner, p on_a visit to South Aitertea, and who
later had revealed t* A to father. In correspondenca
following fatter having becore mmowledgeable of! tre status,

he indie:

hushehush, and that on that basis fe

in effec
warning

t, and had told others of trug

ates that therein he Riskt ‘have dntivated that work was not so
f.

P "had drossed his cuard”
Status. iis letter vas a

to] ‘ather that he should attempt to correct the Andiscretion

of revealing status while he was in Sou:

to other letters rhich| incites contaited daromation rov

indisere

toa om his part and which he aus his

Accordiag’ ts our ‘Teedris, vas. grante:

on 22 May

antle!

He
an AB De,
Ya Cecre:
fron 195:

1553, for use a:

vitting daformant:
3 o8 i238 trad

th America. ‘The lettor refers
ealed tarouzh
fathor to destroy, E

den Operational Clearance
OF as a contract aront on
43 4 contrzct dont fro

attended Northeastern
gTees Lostor Univereity eno. 19ST ta 1:
> An Litia nal f2u2h

2 ta DET w -

ar)

seul 2 a

1s father had chan: a
stendancs at bor!

University fra 19k7 to 1951 and Téceived

52 where he received an

3 and at Vanderbilt University



,

&

— «SECRET

the letter intended for| father, advired the FBI that ess,

bad atterded Boston Vatversity durin the reriod PCY was etadr icy >
under HALPEEIN, was of the opinion that the HALPERIN. aoe
Telatioiship vas Hore tha, dust the Pnever tend hee decazse|

saw HALFLEIS during the eveniags, but nevor told| t be disssssed
with HALPERIN, ..

0 advised ut June 1953, just before
“ure for Rio de Janeiro, Med HALPERD he telephone and at
that time HALPERIN was under investigation. told tat -
FALPER vas in @ predicaent, and that be, felt sorry for him,
iF had told ‘that HALPERIN Gee of influence in
Job for

Is G/ : :

b ry Rent imed:-abovs;

7 21; Lorer enployee
‘by Elleabetie SEN

lis:
ttal to°tl

contacted. this: Acency. Tequosting-pormission: ts: stats *

he “had worked for tha Agency in hie application for orploynmat with

Wi Division to whoa this request 128 ferarted, uae advisad th 7
iS not to cisclosa his. east employment with this Aon

3
“ston, 11 tum, inforred fecirity of thoir desires that be
Anforaed of| Past connections with this Ageacye

Security, on the basis of ths above requost by ¥H Division, canterted
the appropriate person ia ind advised then on &@ controlled basig ef
, former affiliation,with:this.Armecyse ene

t : fore

i


‘Famer ican’ Communists” Maurie!

COCA NT IOERT IFICATION

errie no. | 5m 4

H-13500,

Vanderbilt FIELD. The meet:

The following inforration concerning American Cormmists -in Mexico snd their
contacta has been developed. pee :

1. Qn 12 Sertenber a meting was held of stockholders in the icé cream business
which functions under the management of the American Communist, Robert STRAND, This
business is telioved actually to be owned ty the leading American Communist, Frederick

ing was held at the hore: of STRAND, and vas attended ‘by the
EAL PSRIN“and- Noah” SEBORER and” possibly -by-other stockholder

wetter gaat re e Se

BS weegtercee


mea vere TOR ae Camu’ 7 Pater : ‘i ‘i
LmN

: COM: 2 OE

wi0
Lo :
Na eee deacrommerian rea at ;

o1Rr majo (out 57183)

18002 -19 WL 55.

MWTE MORN VERMONT M

AOR!
AND AYTHOT SINCE 1939, IM MIENICO CITY JUNI
MARIA CARROCERA WINTE HORN 19°71 SPAT

MISTRESS OF :ACQuzS Fiorwana AnD

AT TIME TROTSHY MURDER; S:

DE LA NORA ALLEGEDLY KE.LED

! MOS AORN SPAN 1997, SPAN'SH RLPUSLICAN AMBASSADOR TO US,
ae

37-39, REPOR

TEP RECENT Years Rennes

OF L“DERATION.

» dag was ACTIVE SDM gt

ne orreee

ia

eauee

Leo



cost:

wre: i

19 S55

BY CHAMDESS OF SZ

MAS BAD CONPTCY ONS W

BADLY 1953 FOR PSYCHIATRIC DISTARDANS

OL. MEXICO CITY 1953, REPORTED IN CONTACT

2 CNN SC)

CHING A

WS RECIPLNT S189 FROM POLST DAME

DY ALLECLDL TO:

~ SECRETARIES OF JUAN NEI

ae 7 eno.

neqranma orreee
. tT tS FOR.



Era 1879 (OUT S71G0) -

SoS} WAS REPORTED IN MEN-CO CITY 1943; FRANK

cee eal

RE A COPY OF US MESS\

yoo

FORMER
REACO) 13) mead

SLL NEK

CORESPTONDENT OVERSEAS NEWS AGENCY 1943 !N MENSCO,





ECRET .

-~ (Oe Fisted tay

: - Sot - out-belov 49.0 lleting.of contacts known: to have boen mado by Roah _
and Anne SEBORER during the period covered in thia reports

Bonton University because of refusal to answer

questions before a Congressional Commitee, With him in Mexico are hia son, David, his
wifo Edith and, at least during part of April, his or his wife's father, Noah SEBORER
su-plied Yiddish newspapers for the father to read. The HALPERINS dined at the SEBORERS
14 May 1955, HALPSRIN is believed to be engaged in the truckinr transportation busine
in tion with the firm Bebe Qed: at Isabel da Catol ica egies

Maurice HALPERIN wae disntesed fron

“secneT . oe

von 3
Veer te 86

