# 104-10071-10124

## Page 1

104-10071-10124

SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION.

CUASSIFIED MESSAGE

TOTAL COPIES

SECRET

GROUP!

DUENDED FANA ANTONATE

(When Filled In)

DEHEGRADIRE MAS

DIGLASSIFNCATION

PE-PODUCTON OF THIS COPY PROHIBITEO

1266455=038

iSSUES

ESSEM 24-2

dies

_ PER

SLOTTES

360

-FEE -O FILE 8O.

FiLE

VP.

3

BRANCH D

ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS: STEN E:

16j

8

301

DESTACY L SiS.

SECRET

DIRECTOR

UNPASHA

1=

102315Z APR 65 CITE BOGOTA 8654

11A58 089891

ON 1E APRIL EISOY/CIJAY UNIT

CAVE SIATION TWO OF THE FOLLOWING PROPAGANDA BIENS WRICH

WILL POUCH TO HOS ON IS APPIL.

2= APPROKIMATELY 133 ENVELOPES ARRIVED 1D APRIL ADDRESSES IS

VARIOUS COMMUNIST RECIPIENTS IN BOGOTA INCLUDING DIEGO MONTANA QUELL

TASS AGENCY, COMMUNISE YOUR OF COLOMBIA, JUVENTUD MRES EDIGIOLES

SURAMERICA, VOZ PROLEIARIA, EIG- EACH ENVELOPE CONTAINEOS

• CA:

PRINTED RECEIPT WHICH RECIPIENTS ARE REQUESIES IN 32N3

AS ACINOULEDOENENT TO A PSVALDO PAREDES ALVAREZ:

SIBIRSKE 1ANGSE:

C-1, BUBENEES PRAGUE SA CZECHOSLOVAKIA.

43)

MIMEOGRAPHED NOTE IN SPANISH "ON THE OCCASION GE THE E13

ASSINATIOG. OF DR: MARTIN LUTHER KING WE HAVE PUBLISNED 9 002-09 74

"E ARE RIGHT NOW CIRCULATING IN ALL PARIS OF THE WORLEO WE ME 523

YOU A QUANTITY OF THESE POSTERS IN ORDER THAT THEY MAY BE EB20 TH

COLNIRY IN INE ACTIVIZIES BEINS CARRIED DUT IN THE CONNECTER

NOTE SIGNED BY "SECRETARIO TECHICO-ADMINISTRATIVO: SBC350421:22

EJECUTIVO OSPAAAL-

• LATTER IS SPANISH ABBREVIAZIOO FOR LORE AESER

DuP. 0F 7554

SECRET

---

## Page 2

14-00000

"RATION

SLOTTED

Д..

•PER

CUSSIFIED MESSIGE

TOTAL COPIES

SECRET

GROUP Y

KXCLUNES FRON ANTONATE

(When Filled In!

DESZASSIFICATIOS

REPRODUCTON OF THIS COPY PROKIBITED

INDEX: I YES I NO

CLASSIFY TO FILE NOM

X-FEF TO FILE AO.M

FILERO UPET-TO

ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS - SEEN BY

7

10

BRANCHO

DESTROY I SIG.

PID COPY

File.

FACE 2

79235-

2554

S =

CRET

AZZA AMERICAN SOLIDARITY ASSOCIATION.-

(O) THIRTEEN SY TAENTY-ONE INCH PAPER POSTER WITH LAFGE PICTURE

OF TISEP"S MOUTH AND LARGE LETTERS READING "BLACK POUER" O

EDITOM OF POSIER HAS INSIGUIA OF OSPAAAL

AND FOLLOWING MOTTO IN EWELISH, FRENCH, SPANISH, AND AROSIC:

"RETALIATION TO CRINE:

REVOLUTIONARY VIOLENCE"

INSIEAD OF POSIAGE STAMPS EACH ENVELOPE ADDRESSED BY MACAIUE

ASE BARKED "PORT PAYE INDIGATING ALL ENVELOPES WERE SENT EX SOUERADE:

OR POSTAL SYSIAN OF CZECHOSLOVAKIA TO CUBA FOR DISTRIBUEIOR IN 142A

AUERIDAS, RETURN ADDRESS OR EACH ENVELOPE IS RAMON ECHAVARRIA: ARERIAS

A- 10RS0CH AS KING ASSAGSINATED A APRIL, RECEIPT DE THES MATERIA

AT BOSSTA ON 12 APRAL IS FAUSUALLY FAST PROPAGANDA ACTION SOR 201223

MATERIAL ARRIVING IN COLOMBIAS

PETE SUCH

37

---

## Page 3

14-00000

•CARLE SUGAEZIBIAT DISSEMINATION

FIRES

EOVANCETORY

ISSUEO

SLOTTED

- PER

R:3

CLASITFIED MESSAGE

TOTAL COPIES

SECRET

GROUP!

EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC

(When Filled In)

DOWNGRADING AND

DECLASSIPICATION

REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED

INDEX: O YES

I NO

CLASSIFY TO FILE

NO.-

X-REF TO FILE NO._-

FILE RID D RET. TO

INFO:

FILE.

VR.

ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS • SEEN BY

3

6

8

10

BRANCH O

DESTROY SIG

pies 2.

SECRET 102315Z APR 63 CIIE BOGOTA @654

11 APR 58R 89691

DIRECTOR

UHPASHA

1 in

ON I0 APRIL GISOY/GIJAY UNIT

GAVE SIATION IWO OF THE FOLLOWING PROPAGANDA ITEMS WHICH

WILL POUCH TO HOS ON IS APRILS

2, APPROXIMAIELY 102 ENVELOPES ARRIVED 10 APRIL ADDRESSED TO

VARIOUS COMMUNIST RECIPIENIS

I BOGOTA INCLUDING DIEGO MONIANA CUELLARI

TASS AGENCY, COMMUNIST YOUIN OF COLOMBIA, JUVENTUD MAL EDICIONES

SURAMERICA, VOZ PROLETARIA, ETCS. EACH ENVELOPE CONTAINEDS

(A)

PRINIED RECEIPT WHICH RECIPIENTS ARE REQUESTED TO SEND

AS AOKNOWLADGIMENT TO MS OSVALDO PAREDES ALVAREZ, SIBIRSKE NAMESTIO.

Col, BUBENEC, PRAGUE S, CZECHOSLOVARIAO

(B; MIMEOGRAPHED NOTE IN SPANISH "ON IRE OCCASION OF ENE ASS-"

ASSINATION OF DR, MARTIN LUTHER KING WE HAVE PUBLISHED A POSTER WATCH

ARE RIGHT NOW CIRCULATING IN ALL PARTS OF THE WORLE. WE ARE SENUE

YOU A QUANTITY OF THESE POSTERS IN ORDER THAT THEY MAY BE USEO IS

.. YOu

COUNTRY IN THE ACIIVIDIES BEING CARRIED OUT IN THIS CCANECZION.

VOTE SIGNED BY "SECRETARIO TECNICO-ADMINISTRAIIVO, SEORSTARIADO

EJECUTIVO OSPAAAL", LATIER IS SPANISH ABBREVIATION FOR ARROCASIAN

7554

SECRET

---

## Page 4

14-00000

CABLE SECRETARIAT, DISSEMINATION

BESSOVUNT NOTFIED

ADINNCECORY

iSSUED

SLOTTED

AT:

I SSEN BY

ICTON

_PER

RID COPY

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

TOTAL COPIES

SECRET

GROUP 1

EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC

(When Filled In)

DOWNGRADING AND

DECLASSIFICATION

REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED

INDEX:

YES

NO

CLASSIFY TO FILE

NO.

X-REF TO FILE NO...

FILE RIO D RET. TO

INFO:

FILE.

VR.

ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS - SEEN BY

2

3

10

BRANCH O

DESTROY / SIG.

PAGE 2 29205- 0554 SECRET

LATIN AMERICAN SOLIDARITY ASSOCIATION.:

(0)

THIRTEEN BY INENTY-ONE INCH PAPER POSTER WITH LARGE PICTURE

OF TIGER'S MOUTH AND LARGE LETIERS READING "BLACK POWER".

BOTTOM OF POSTER HAS INSIGNIA OF OSPAAAL

AND FOLLOWINS MOITO IN ENGLISH, FRENCH, SPANISHY AND ARASIC:

"RETALIATION TO CRIME: REVOLUTIONARY VIOLENCE"•

3÷ INSTEAD OF POSIAGE STAMPS EACH ENVELOPE ADDRASSED BY MACHUNE

AGE MARKED "PORT PAYE INDICAIING ALL ENVELOPES WERE SEND BY SOVERUMEN:

OR POSTAL SYSTOM OF CZECHOSLOVAKIA TO CUBA FOR DISIRIBUIION XA 46Z4

MERLOAD

RETURN ADDRESS ON EACH ENVELOPE IS RAMON ECHAVARRIA: APARTADI

$012. HAVANA.

4. INASHUCH AS KING ASSASSINATED 4 APRIL, RECEIPE OF TARO MATGERAL

AT SOGOTA ON 10 APRIL IS UNUSUALLY FAST PROPAGANDA ACTION FOR 00923021

MATERIAL ARRIVING IN COLOMBIAO

S 20

SECRET

---

