# 104-10175-10176

## Page 1

104-10175-10176

3-494206

19 406 1964

TO

: Director

Foleral Furesu of Investigation

Attention:

Ar. B: J. rapica

: Deputy Director for PIeD&

SUBJECTO LYlO STUART

Reference is made to your merorandus dated I. June 1904,

In which you provided this office with several questions you

wished to have paosed to Hiss Viola June COBB regarding

Lyle STUART.

There follows the information provided by

mory in ename la wour inquiry:

Fegarding Lyle StART,

Juan Jose ARIVALO, and

Antlkcmen18r2

en Anusica Latina:

Early 1n the spring o1 1902, in Mexico, ARITAID told

me that STUNT wus prodding hia about

getting another of bl

booke troninted, to take advantage ot the publicity around

Shark ani the

was already far beyond

spcaxing ters with bt ill end therefore declined to

anything further to do with bit.

About tirce nonths later,

ARaVALO told no that BTUART WSD €O106

to pubilan

antikonuniaso en Aberica Irtlus. and that a young Anerican

student, married to a betical,

Angela delli SANTE ARROCLA

(mino nad written Arevalo, panassor contemporango, fublished

by coate hmic:

1906. flounced by Als

JaNICRi PaVOluCIonariO

de El Balvador) wea

doing the translation into ingiish.

Early In 1963, ARUVALO told no that the tranniation badn't

been satisfactory and thereiere STudit hud obtained a ro

translation, by Charleton bihis.

STUART TRE horA 1n Mexico in June, he told

Dr. Osncued that he was very happy about the way the book

vas selling.

Inasmuch Rs STUART has paid AREVALO only 10 por cent

of moneys received by StAir on the chark end the

sardluen

enlea

(in contrnot with sore bunk contracts

In which the

receives 10

per cent of the robey represcated by nunher of

copies sold

multiplied by the retail sales price) i sould

AEOUA0

ho in no more generous bIth Ant Leominiano.

CS COPY

SECCET

201-275544

---

## Page 2

14-00000

I know of no affiliationa of STAiT vits foregn

political partles of goverment.

Hia attempte to got ciose

to Fidel CASTRO In 1960 were cotlvated by a desire to expiolt

the journalistic advantages of an interview.

His original

interest in The Shark and the Sardines was apparently

notivated by money making intercets and by the hope that

he might spark a sensation - exactly what he did manage to

do with his cutrageous advertising.

Bo seened to calculate

that there might be libel suits possible azalnat the firme

and the nerspapers he could pruvoke to attack bim.

The original contract of AREVALO with STUART 90S

superseded by another in Novcabor of 1961, granting STUtT

certain righte with regard to other foreigo language editions

establtabing

translated into English.

Intornation

abut STUARt's dealings with ARIVALO

and whatever otbers,

could be obtained (with culie) fron

Elleen

BRANt, who uas ils criftor at the tine of the firat

contact with AREVAID.

She subsequently broke with bin

because of deep and bitter resentment against his, then

returned not too long ago to collaborate with his.

She 1a

his wife's sister.

She is certainly working with hia now

only boreuse to finally offerod her a little better pay.

For -

her to have changed her mind about him would be alroat

imposalble, I bellere, in vier of the long bistory of Incidonte

that had brought her to have conterpt for hin, at the tine

I knew her. ta

19G1.

She knows his operation inside out.

In order to get intormation froe her, it sould be assolutoly

necessary to approach her from some angle that would give

no hint of goverment investigation.

She is very cregarious.

She la a fortyish sediunattractive.

Hey York

(umless ber statun has chaaged Binety; iner ber).

Bingle

contacted by sonebody she would asgune to be a writer,

and

who would be a bit irlendly with her and zee her off-bours,

she would probably talk freely about STufT.

But abe 1s

quite clever and rather pundly in some rejects.

so that must

be kept in mind in case she is contacted.

SHE FAS A VERY

DEXP AND LONGTILE NIGATIVE ATTITUDR TOUARD ALL GOVERHANT

AGENCIES INVOLVED IN INVESTIGATION.

She vss sctive in

liberal activities in Chicago, and 11 I renember correctly,

although she la cortslaly not comminist, ane connicared hersel

a little jeopardised by the lie Carthy period.

Angela Delll BANTE ARROCITE could also be contacted,

: of course.

Cognite

1* *18

SSORST

---

## Page 3

2.

Begarding Lyle. STUART,

DE. Baul CaPCUlDA, Bartolone

COSTA Aude, and Mario ECSTORTE Toledo:

DE. OBEGUIDA apparently

has had a secret lesging to

Ect something of his own printed in English.

He celzad upon

the opportunity of comenting BRALS' introduction to

Antikomuniszo in order to write to STUART this sprita.

StuArt wrote very cordially back to OsEcUcla, arpiug to meet

kim on a trip to besico 1a June.

ThEn OSAGUIDA ConfeRsed to

BE bia corretyoadence with STUNET,

be sought to make so see

it as an atteapt to spest with STUARt about the royalties

STUART has never paid ne.

Then De. OBEGUIDS finally did see ETUART bera 18

Mexico daring the book congress 18

June, he only rely

taidly and very, very

briefly touched upon the royalty

motle. and indeed went to &

STUAKT by taEroducang

Bereas deal 0s trouble 8o

dale mad do listen

HOSTAFOLTE Toledo.

(STUART had expressed interest ta

getting in touch

with some publishers and vritera.)

CATUEDA

hustled about, taking OSEGUDDA and MONTIYQETE Toledo so lunch

HI: STUART,

even managed to got the LUNITORTE Toledos to

Jarite STUARt to dinner at their apartnent.

Thore stre

tentative discussiono of collaborating

in the distribation of

COSTA Amie books in the United States and of publishing

BOSE bOOK Of MONIEZOBTE Toledo'a.

forever,

both costa Amic and the sourproars foledos

told se that they lound

STUART offensively vulgar und sere not

at all enthusiastic about having anything to do with hin.

Is prete ago, OSIGUDA sketched She outline of &

book (contenporary history of 0.%. and Latin America relstions)

he hopes STUART will wnt to yubllab, and eent the outline

/ap to his.

CECI-316/00788 04

wH/1/C. Bustos:chk

Distribution:

Orig.

*1 = RI (201-2

- RI (201-278841)

prod front

• CI/LIA

- Cx/RSA

1 - WH/1

WH/PO/

18 August 1964

BASIC: HIMA 24092

PROJECT: NONE

LIAISON:

NONS

SIC ET

21235"

7, i:8

1133

30

---

## Page 4

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

33

SECRET

2 i

ROUTiG

15

TO

FROM

• DIRECTOR

CITY

WH&

INTO

INleN516SE

SE CRSE T 141643Z

DIR CITE MEXI 8582

i LYCOOKY

REF A.

DIR 40439

• Be

• 1& 831 2041

LICOOKY/I ANSWERS TO REF B

SENT IN HMMA 24392 ON 11 AJG.

SECRET

SECRET

REPRODUCTION AY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PEOMISITED

nod

1o123 т

Capy No

2792

---

## Page 5

14-00601

ere,

- dug.

CLUSTICATION

SECRET

13

INFO

DISPATCH

Chief, WE Dir1s10n

PACCESSING AS 00U

¡CULT QUALIFIED DESE

S5F0

Chief of Stution, Merco City,

Ansvers to Isquirier Stultted 19 Beference

Ref: ENS 12041

1 ESCOR

Portarded hererits are ansvers to the inguiries forsaded in reference

dispatch siraitted by subject of 201-278341 on 6 July 195-

kare arse

Tillard C.

Attachment:

As stEted above

Diatribitica:

i3 - c/15D s/att

IS COPY

CHOES REFERENCE TO

ir.:

DESPATCH STASICA AND SHIRER

MILA. 24092

CLASSI CATION

SECRET

201-278841

| DATE

11 kgust 1964

I PEGS FRE DAMAGER

202-278841 |

---

## Page 6

14-00000

SECRET

July 6, 196%

LYLE STUART

AREVALO

"ANTIKOMTEISMO EN AVIRICA LATINA"

Early in the spring of 1962, here 1n Mexico, Aévalo told me that stuart

was prodding him abort betting nother of his too straited to seedy

vantase of the publicity arouns

*The Thark and the Sardines".

far beyond speaking erns with Stiert end therelore declined to bave arything

furtber to do with rin.

About tiree months ister, Arévalo told ve that slart

was going to publien "Antikomisso en America letira" and that a joung Aurican

student, narrleà to & Mexican, hagela dell1 Sante Arrocha (who Led vritten

"Arevalo, Fensador Contemporaneo";* vas doing the translation into Englisa.

Early In 1963, Arévelo told se tist the transistion hadn't been satisfactory

and therefore Stuart had obtained a re-translation, by Charleton Beals.

Wnen Stuart ves here in Maxiso In June, be told Dr. Osecueda thet be was

very bappy about, the weythe bock was selling.

Inasmuch as Strest has paid Arévalo only 10 percent of moneys received by

"The Shert and the Sardines" sales (in contrast with some book con-

tracts in which tbe author receives 10 percent of the money represented by

I can ask Dr. Osegueda the exact

terrs, bat I haven't been able to see Osegueda this week.

•I knou of no aMliations of Stuart with forelgn political parties of

governsent. Els attempta to get close to Fidel Castro In 1900 vere notivated

by a desire to expicit the joumallatic advantees of an interview.

Ris:

originel interest in

"the Sbart end the Sardinea" ves. apperently. notivated by

money-gazing interist aid by the hope that he might spark a seusation - exactiy.

what he dia manage to do with his outrugeous edvertiaing.

He seemed to calcu-

late that there mignt be libel silts possible agalast the firms and the newg-

papera he could provate to attaci him.

I am sure you tave it on file, but I will enclose a copy of Arevalo'e

original contract with Stuart..

It was superceded by anotber in November of

1901, granting Stuert certain rights with regard to other foreign language

ecitions of "The Start and the Sardines" and, I bellere, establishing that

Stuart should have first option of other Arévalo booke translated into English.

. Information about Stuart's dealings with Arévalo ad whatever otbers could

be obtained WITH GILE fron Elleen Brant, uho vas bie editor at the time of the

Pablished by Costa Anic, Ii2. Planced by Ala Radical Revolucionarlo de I

Selvador.

ES COPY

SECRET

Tn+o 1901924692

EATIENT AN

201-278841

---

## Page 7

14-00000

SECRET

2=

first contact with Arevelo, subsequently broke with bis because of deep and

bitter resentment against him, then returned not too long ago to collaborate

with him. She is his wife's sister.

She la certainly vorking with him Dow

only. because he finally offered her a little bette: pay.

For her to bave

changed. her mind about him would be almost impossible, I belleve, in view of

the long history of incidents that had brought her to bave contemp. for bim,

at the time I knew her in 1961.

She knows bis operation inside-out. In order

to get information from her, it vould be absolutely necessary to epproach ber

fron some angle that would gire no hint of government Investigatioo.

She 1$

very gregarious.

she 1s a fortjish mediun-attractive, lonely, new York aingle

voran (unless her status has chenged since I knew her). By samebody she would

assume to be a writer, and who would be a bit friendly with her and see ber

ofi-hours, the would probably talk freely about, Stuart. But sbe is quite clever

and rather wortly in some respects, so that must be kept in mind in case she

1e contacted.

SAS HAS A VERY DEEP AND LONGTIKE REGATIVE ATTITUDE TOWARD ALI

She was active in liberal

Angela Del:1 Sante-Arroche could be contacted, too, of course. I vill

1ook for her address at Costa Amic'a office and pase 1t along.

SECRET

7:31

Esaladas tria armst

---

## Page 8

June 6, 1964

Lyle Stuart

Dr. Raul Osezueda

Begetolone CoBra Anie

Mario Monteforte Toledo

DI. Osegueda apparently has bed a secret longing to get sorething of his

own printed in Englisb.

He seized upon the opporcunity of cormenting beals'

Introduction to "Antikomnimo" In order to write to Stuart this sprinz.

Stuart

wrote very cordially back to Osegusda, boping to seet him on a trip to Mexico

In June.

When Osegueda confessed to se his correspondence tith Stuart, he

sought to make me see it as an atterpt to speas with Stuart about the royalties

Stuart has rever paid me.

When Osegueda finally did see Stuart here during the book congress in June,

he only very timidly and very, very briefly touched upon the royalty problem, and

indeed vent to a great deal of troitle to serve Stuart by introducing aim to

Costa Amic and to Mario Monteforte Toledo.

(Stuart had expressed Interest in

getting in touch with sore publishers and vriters.) Oseguede bustled abait,

taking Obegueds and Monteforte Toledo to lunch with Stuart, even mantzed to get

the Monteforte Toledos to Invite Sivert to dinner at their apartient.

vere tentetive discussions of coilscorating in the distribution of Costa Amic

books. in. the United. States and of publishing sone book of Monteforte Folero's.

However, both Costa Anice and the Monteforte Toledos told ne that they

found Stuart offensively vulgar and were not at all enthusiastic about having

anytbing to do with him.

Ivo seeds ago, Pacguede stetched the outline of e book (coatemporary history

of U.S. and Latin American relations) he bopes Stuart will want to publish, and

sent the outline up to him.

Bened

SECRET

ad 2 to

HMMAZYO9}

201-278841

---

## Page 9

14-00000

Jala: Ca

Bustos

LNT. : WH/1

EXT : 4506

DA: :5 AUGUST 1964

1O MEXICO CITY

120%: DIRECTOR

CONT

WH

TO

MEXI

LICOOKY

REF:

H30/-12641*

MESSAGE FORM

33

SECRET

D NO ENDIX

DO FILE IN CS FRENO

ROUTING

15/

D

8

6/usEX EX 21: 062

INo VR

INO.

• OTE DIR

'4.04.8.9

FLEASE AUVISE.

END OF MESSAGE

3'H CONMENT:

«FBI recuested chat corra!" questions bo given to LICoOLY

by us concoming Juan Josa Arevada ana byde Sewert.

and the

book shark and the Sardines. Justice da thanking

01

prosecuting Stuart.

DESMOND FITZGERALD

C/KHD

C/WH/1

PERRASING SPRICEA

ERIRRIKATINE REPLELA

OROUS I

AUTHINTICATINA

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITED.

Copy Ain

]

---

## Page 10

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 11

14-00000

---

## Page 12

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 13

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 14

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 15

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 16

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 17

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 18

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 19

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 20

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 21

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 22

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 23

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 24

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 25

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 26

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 27

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 28

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 29

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 30

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 31

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 32

TRiS:

UNiT:

DATE :

TO :

FROM: DIRECTCR

COPiF:

INFO:

DINDEX

D NO INDEX

O FILE IN CS FILE NO.

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

12-42

ROUTING

14

15

6

PAGK 2

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

TO

INFO

CITE DIR

10116

WA Corment:

Ref related Mexi concern at LICOOLY/LINLUCK rE

lationship, and asked ior authority to pressure

then apart.

VE/3,

AC/THD

BELEASING

ORDIRATING OFFICER

SECRE

SNOUP1

& reques trom sularis

Burgraring and

t:on

REPRODUCTION BYESTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE. IS PRÓHIBITED.

Outin

TOEN M.

WHITTEN

C/MI/3

AUTHENTICATING

OFFICER

Copy Kin

:-I721

---

## Page 33

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 34

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 35

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 36

*No text recognized on this page.*

---

## Page 37

14-00000

--t.

---

## Page 38

14-00000

≤ 890.8T

10 February 1964

... ear aeria

MEMORANDUM FOR: COG/C

SUBJECT

LICOOKY. 1

LICO0KT-1 was granted an Of on 27 January 1964--

She was recrulted in june 1960 and has been utilized

by SAS and UN Division since that time.

J. 1. Whitten.

C/Hh/3

93-77

---

