# 104-10186-10169

## Page 1

104-10186-10169

INFORMATION REPORT

INFORMATTONDREPORT

• CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

17, 08C FOCA 190 And 914 NDO STAAANIANOS OF TOPPINLOS Of THICS lA ANY MADDER 1O aS MUNUthOrizEd persOn ls protistol by lam.

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY Cuba

SUBJECT Carlos Sixto CHAIN Soler

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Nat Reproduce

REPORT NO.

' DATE DISTR

•NO. PAGES

CSCI-316/01186-65

17 March 1965

REFERENCES

1

CSCI-3/781, 989

26 June 1964

DATE OF 1964

INFO.

PLACE & Washington,

D.

DATE ACQ. February 1965

Ce

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINOS ARE DEPINITIVE APPRAISAL OR CONTENT IS TENTATIVE

SOURCE, A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence

Service until April 1964.

Headquarters Comments

he following report is one of a series containing personalit

nformation provided by the source and includes supplementa

Information from the records of this Agency.

it Is requested that the addressees take no action on any of

he individuals mentioned in the personality reports without

first checking with this Agency.

1.

carlos Sixto CHAIN Soler, Deputy Chief of the Direccion

General de Inteligencia (General Directorate of Intelligence

DGI), uses the aliases:

Captain Augusto; Captain Chacon; Captain

Augusto Chacon; Augusto; and Chain.

CHAIN, PINEIRO, "ard

Guillermo JIMENEZ are the three top people in the DGI. CHAIN

carries a carnet of the Cuban Ministry of Interior.

2.

CHAIN, a Cuban citizen, was born about 1934.

He is

five

feet six

Inches tall, weighs 160 pounds, and has a heavy

build.

CHAIN has a dark complexion; black,

oriental shaped

eyes; short, black hair; thick,

arched eyebrows;

oval face; small

ears, and chin; thin lips; even white teeth; and a

fat neck.1

short,

Headquarters Comment

1. Aside from the information forwarded in CSCI-3/781,989, this

Agency has no additional identifiable information

on CHAIN.

5

2

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

STATE

REP

P" CINCLANT

ARMY

(Noto: Fiold distribution Indicated by " #".)

MIAVY

CINCSO

AlR

T&NS

NSA

TXKX

1 OCR

TFBI2

INEORMATIONT

REPORTA

MI/C/CA

WE/S/R

1/ CI/LIA

HELLADR

LLCI/R&A

HI/C/RR/RF1

AINFORMATION REPORT

I LE

W/ FASH/RH

6340;LX 2231

LX 2274; LX 2263

NO PROJECT (AMMUO/

CSCI-316/01186-05

TOTALS WU/C 8 (1), WE 1 (1), CIA, RID 1

YIBR

---

