# 104-10004-10258

## Page 1

104-10004-10258

SEGRET

SRici meno

23 winter 2953

C, PLa

BUSTEI

Aoting Cater, &8 Dirtalen

toot of los OSAD sith a mber of sovler

Marination Depa

Ourul, Valerty Badimirovich HosTeDY. Tude wa learned when DEWAlD called,

the Bovlet Ibessy en 1 Out.

identifying hinel? by nane and speakine

and asking the guard who answered the phon

conceraing the talagran to Vanhington.

mitch in contratied by the

The instrustions elvin TaBLED by the tro officers, (plapotnting

objectives for sebotags) end the eirenstences of thels inrolvement to the case,

loft no doubt that both of that wire working for the bene this component, the

919t.

Bovint Intelligence documente,.

Documert Number

y 05 34-538

for FOlA Review on

MAY 1978

34-538

copy

---

## Page 2

13-00000

SECRET

Local contertntelligmce service against the Boviet Installation

yond oftetel metten."

arder to centert the ense offices

31.18: 1M

---

## Page 3

13-00000

SECRET

30 3 ca otteoasie

2) O pemary of our inferuation on HOBFIKOV) onA

eyyelas end Aecaselastlen - Brecutive

a. Boviot Btraterle Bweuttve Aotles, deted Ortober 1961.

1101 BR/0

---

## Page 4

13-00000

SECRET

BIJICRS

Vodersy ViBelnSrOTICh FODSIEOY

KOsTIKOY che was born on 1y March 1933 1n Moseovo vas

asoigaed to 8as Sovtes Babeosy 1o Moxtee

71eo conu

on 19 Boptomlor 1962.

A fluost Spealch spesker, he had rerelled ebrond es degot

taree

*1nei before this permanout

6001 eane

DSi nereovero

2959

KosTInoy epplled fer o viee

to cc001

Tieh KHRUSICHEV's party to the united

CHE1ta

dOr8O7

8t

nofftolanoe

tho Sovfot Minlasry o8 Porolea A88e

hav

recorar

of hio bavlos cone do thie eoutry ot shot tiae. KOsgIrOV

Cerved

an an interproter as laternotsenal Conforoncen at Madrte

and sorcelona ln 1998 aad 1959. Io lete 1959 and early 1960

horottonded Sovtet oshiditfoni in Nealeo City and Havanay he

1o knomn to have Deen la Cabe S8O 6 January to T Mareb 19600

The phyascol Ceneription of KOBTITOY quite neeurstely. 11t.

of e doulat nene offteer who narlre yoar mo not 1n

Bordos enoo olfieer 1a tho Unlted Bintes han boen OJoe Dantte

Vich oaxKIu of the Thlrseenta Depsstrento XOB Tiros Chios

Directorate, ooeupylng the overt porscion of traualater Crelaeo,

Vof, Beeresarlet, low fers Citr.

BRYKIN vas batloned In New

Iork City Prom Doconder 1960 to duls of eble Jear.

since arrivine sn nossco, KOSKO kagmito bero travoltod

solmeo-onteldo tho ecpitelo In Mareh 196g and aguln for eno

r1rit tro

wooks of Boptenber he vent do TiJuans, Easencda, snd

Nestesll, ostondlbly for the purpo d of purchaaiag sotton. The

U.. Department ef Btato, howerero has

roportod thet durist

%hee tripo SOSTILOY net 1000S rOpreBeR

51T98.01 MovineRte

lorso Cormunsot front ergaaluatsone®

TOX DOuTCe, XOBIIKOV vAS Becopanled on the Septembor trip bys

IVn COTSlOVSCR ALYERIDVe anC DO COntBetC 1а Bn0enAde TOVeIET

porion neluding Comunise ayapathisero

Tho previonaly had beon

onsocioted vith sovses ofticlols nt

atlonod in Mesteo

C1tJ.

AXPERIEVO A PRAVDA correspondent In Mexfeo, vas in ciose

contcot vith cuona dipionata and Loeal Commuaiut Lesders durla8

• Vebruary 1968

gia1e to 0u110.

---

