# 104-10330-10008

## Page 1

104-10330-10008

CONFIDENTIAL

7. April 1995

MEMORANDUM FOR: J. Barry Harrelson @ DA

FROM:

SUBJECT:

IMS/ESG/HCS

Response to ARRB Questions / Requests

REFERENCE:

Memo dtd 6 March 1995 to Ellie Neiman re ARRB Initial Review of Oswald

201 File

1. In response to ARRB the DO has the following answers and /or comments to the

specific questions raised by Mr. Gunn during his review of the OSWALD 201 file.

a. RYBAT- The sensitivity indicator RYBAT is used on correspondence

whenever, in the judgment of the originator and releasing officer, the correspondence

concerns sensitive operational or administrative matters. When used RYBAT will appear

on the slug line along with other pertinent action indicators or cryptonyms to ensure the

protection of sensitive text information.

b. CI/SIG - the ""' In SIG stands for " investigations " and appears in the

Birch O'Neal testimony and also in CSI No. 70-1 dtd 2 March 1955 | a copy attached

herewith] : this particular document was released in full in Reel 48 folder 18 of the JFK

microfilm holdings.

c. VR - Indicates that a"' vital records" copy of the cable message was

provided to the cable secretariat archives for its use in the necessary microfilming of the

message at a later date - this automatic dissemination to VR ensures a good microfilm

image copy for records storage.

d. D-200-5-41 - The "D" indicates a processing code used by the records

analyst to place a cross referenced copy of the same document into a particular file other

than the main file. The file number 200-5-41 is the official GPFLOOR file|-all documents

originally assigned to this file have been reclassified to other subject files. The GPFLOOR

file was closed out with the last document filed dated 26 August 1968 [see JFK Reel 48

folder 29 for a listing of documents processed from this file].

e. SLUG LINE - The crypts released elsewhere in the text of a message are

always protected in the slug line along with other indicators as a method to preclude

reconstitution of DO files; for the release of the crypts in the slug line could build.

sufficient information to reconstruct sensitive operational information the DO is trying to

protect.

f. DO/WH Organizational Chart - [see attached CSI No 70-1 dtd 27 May

1955 and updates written in from cable chrono information l- the second attachment dtd 5

July 1978 authored by the CIA History Staff answers the original request for this

information.

g. HRG Review Guidelines - On 15 March the DO provided HRG with a green

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 2

13-00000

CONFIDENTIAL

highlighted copy of the guidelines indicating any information which it considers sensitive

and for review only by Mr. Gunn while at HRG I per discussion with Barry this is not a

sanitized version of the guidelines I.

CC:

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 3

13-00000

CONFIDENTTAL

INTERNAL USE ONLY

SECRET ATTACHMENT

7 April 1995

RESPONSE TO ARRE QUESTIONS

L03

CIA SPECIAL COLLECTIONS

RELEASE AS SANITIZED

2000

In response to ARRB the DO has the following answers and /or comments to the

specific questions raised by Mr. Gunn during his review of the OSWALD 201 file.

a. RYBAT- The sensitivity indicator RYBAT is used on correspondence

whenever, in the judgment of the originator and releasing officer, the correspondence

concerns sensitive operational or administrative matters. When used RYBAT will appear

on the slug line along with other pertinent action indicators or cryptonyms to ensure the

protection of sensitive text information.

b. CI/SIG - the "|"' In SIG stands for " investigations" and appears in the

Birch O'Neal testimony and also in CSI No. 70-1 dtd 2 March 1955 | a copy attached

herewithl; this particular document was released in full in Reel 48 folder 18 of the JFK

microfilm holdings.

c. VR - Indicates that a" vital records" copy of the cable message was

provided to the cable secretariat archives for its use in the necessary microfilming of the

message at a later date - this automatic dissemination to VR ensures a good microfilm

image copy for records storage.

d. D-200-5-41 - The 'D" indicates a processing code used by the records

analyst to place a cross referenced copy of the same document into a particular file other

than the main file. The file number 200-5-41 is the official GPFLOOR file -all documents

originally assigned to this file have been reclassified to other subject files. The GPFLOOR

file was closed out with the last document filed dated 26 August 1968 (see JFK Reel 48

folder 29 for a listing of documents processed from this file.

e. SLUG LINE - The crypts released elsewhere in the text of a message are

always protected in the slug line along with other indicators as a method to preclude

reconstitution of DO files; for the release of the crypts in the slug line could build

sufficient information to reconstruct sensitive operational information the DO is trying to

protect.

f. DO/WH Organizational Chart - (see attached CS No 70-1 dtd 27 May

1955 and updates written in from cable chrono information I- the second attachment dto 5

July 1978 authored by the CIA History Staff answers. the original request for this

information.

INTERAIAL UCE ONLY.

CONEIDENTIAL

---

## Page 4

13-00000

7

MCCANO, SOD 2026X30 2037

# M37 0 83067 23033

CLANDESTINE SERVICES

INSTRUCTION NO. 70-1

TENTATIVE -

CSI NO. 70-1

CHAPTER V

3 March 1955

(0) Recommends policy for Clandestine Services activities relating to the internal security

"of the United Stäles and provides stall supervision over the collection and provision of

Information appropriate lo United States internal securly agencies.

2. SPECIAL INVESTIGATLON UNIT

* Major-Functions

Performs the CI Investigallon and analysis of any known or potential security leak lo the

Clandestine Services organizatlon, whether in headquarters or in the fleld, from the stand-

point of Its effect on (1) existing operations, and (2) the cover of personnel. In performing

this function, maintains close working relations with the Security Office, the latter being

primarily concerned in such cases from Agency security rather than an operational secu-

rity standpoint.

3. ADMINISTRATION STAFF

# Major Functions

(1) Guides and supports Cl elements in the field of organization, personnel, specialized

procurement and supply, linance, budget, travel, publications, and general admiliatra-

live facilitles.

Note: Since Cl personnel have the FI career designation, Career Management funcilong

are largely performed by FI Stall.

(2) Performs counterpart functlons within the Cl Stall on beball of those Agency support

units responsible for procedures relating to personal salety, physical security, and

miscellaneous administrative controls.

(3) Coordinates with the other components of Cl Stall to insure correlation of their activilles

with the administrative capabilities of the Agency.

M. LIAISON STAFF

# Major Functions

(1) Provides staff supervision and guidance in matters relating to liaison with other United

...

States Government agencies on mailers pertaining to counterespionage and operationally

related matters pertaining to internal security.

(2) Provides guidance and suggestions, as requested and appropriate, lo other components

of CIA in matters pertaining to counteresplonage and internal security involving lalson

with other United States Government agencies.

(3) Coordinates with the Security Office, or other components of CIA as appropriate, mattere

involving liaison with other United States Governmen: agencies on questions which have

counteresplonage aspects and other aspects intermingled or not clearly delineated.

5. SPECIAL PROJECTS DIVISION

# Major Furctions

The Chlef, Special Projects Division, is responsible for the handling of such special projects

as are assigned to him by the Chief, Cl, or directly by the Chief of Operations or the Deputy

Director (Plans).

"RIF"

this documint

*relesad previcesty

Rect is, f this

---

## Page 5

13-00000

SECREI

CLANDESTINE SERVICES

INSTRUCTION NO. 407 1 Y

LANTATIV

CSI NO.

ORGANIZATION

27 May 1955

7N00.1970

RELZASE

Паті

Io June 1955

inte

bey 101

Reat.

ORGANIZATION AND FUNCTIONS OF THE

CLANDESTINE SERVICES

CHAPTER VII, PART A - ARE

DIVISIONS

tuli

recided

CORT NO. 698

7-298-552 b0 off orespay!

527/55

BECRET

---

## Page 6

13-00000

CLANDESTINE SERVICES

INSTRUCTION NO. 70-1

TENTATIVE

CSI NO. 70-1

ORGANIZATION

27 May 1955

ORGANIZATION AND FUNCTIONS OF THE

CLANDESTINE SERVICES

CHAPTER VII, PART A - AREA DIVISIONS •

1. MISSION

2. ORGANIZATION

(see organization charts, Figures 1 - 6.)

3. MAJOR FUNCTIONS

The Chief of an Area Division will:

a. Plan, develo, direct, and support ali Federal esplonage operations and activitles within his

geographic • rea.

b. Plan, devel.o, direct, and support all psychological and paramilitary operations and activi

ties within his geographic area (except as qualllied in paragraph c., below, for certain 10 fis

perations) to Include propaganda programs, economic warfare, guerrilla warfere, sabotage

evasion and escape, PP stay behind and penetration operations, and afr-maritime operations

sary support for any 0 operations based in his area.

d. Provide necessary support, in collaboration with the SR Division, for any SR operations or

activities based in bis geographic area.

e. Plan, develop, direct, and support counterespionage and counterintelligence operations a

activities within his geographie area.

1o. Develop and maintain CE information on foreign intelligence services and person

counterintelligence interest relating to his prographic area.

NOTE: This standardized finctiomal statement applies to the following six Area Divinos

FE, NE, BE, WE, and WH. 'In view of the spectalised nature of SR and ID actvides ndl

vidual functional statements for these two Divimions are sparately published no PART B

and PART C, respectively, of Chapter VIL

SECRET

---

## Page 7

13-00000

SECRET

CLANDESTINE SERVICES

INSTRUCTION NO. 70-1

TENTATIVE

CSI NO. 70-1

CHAPTER VU - PART A

27 May 1955

3. Prepare intelligence and counterintelligence information reports pertaining to his geographi

area lor disfemination to appropriate Government agencies in accordance with establishe

reguirements.

....

with other Agency components.

Assist in the development of pertinent strategic cold war plans as required.

J. Assist in the development of hot war plans pertaining to his geographic area and provide as

directed for the allocation, transfer, or generation of assets to meet accepted hot war obll-

I Administer all delector matters within his geographic area.

SL

Provide guidance and direction to the operational and administrative activities conducted by

field stations in his geographic area, to include the development and, after approval, trans-

mission of letters of Instruction and related mission directives as appropriate and required.

•Assure that appropriate cover is provided for all clandestine activities within his geographic

Marea.

n. Coordinate and supervise the establishment and activation, and direct the operation, of field

stations and facilities necessary to accomplish in his georraphic area the mission assigned

to hla division.

Ensure that adequate operational, personnel, materiel, and phisteal security is maintained

within his beadquarters and overseas areas of responsibility.

Do Inplement personnel, training, and rotation programs in accordance with Agency regulations.

Ensure that hendquarters and field elements of his division comply with all operational and

ministrative policies, procedures and instructions of the Agency.

Legulate and monktor all travel to and within his geographic area.

As the established channel between headpuarters and the held installations in lie geographi

rel, monttor all communtentions to and from nach field installations, and be responsible

for when celease of, or cobriiration on, all Clandentre Pervices commanications, as well

na those origtited by mon-DD/P components, whtch affect activities ta hla geographic area.

, amlysts, and ovalention of operations conducted Within ble

vographile aren

onduct operation. lintion with all components of the Agency, other Covernment agencies

i foreign povernments as directed in the excution of the above mission and functions

?. Perform such other functions as directed by the DD/P.

FRANK G. WISNER

Deputy Director (Plans)

Released by:

Richard Reims

Chief of Operations

SECRET

---

## Page 8

13-00000

Plans

Staff

EE/1

EE/2

EE DIVISION

Chief

Deputy Chlef

Chiel

OPS

EE/3

EE/4

EE/3

EE/0

sentatth

EEM

LANDESTINE BERVICES

CHAPTE

---

## Page 9

13-00000

FI

staff.

FE/1

FE/2

PP

Staff

FE DIVITON

Chief

Deputy Chief

FE/3

Figure 2

FE/4

PM

Stalf

FE/3

Adma ta,

Stall

FE/6

RVICIES

BECRET

87•10g 1956

TENTATIVE

CSI NO. 70-1

CHAPTER VU - PART A

---

## Page 10

13÷00000

FI

Stalf

GSN 5.99

NEA/1

PP

Staff

NEA DIVISION

Chief

Deputy Chief

NEA/2

NEA/4

Figure 3

PM

Stall

NEA/S

Admin.

Stall

CLANDESTINE SERVICES

INSTRUCTION NO. 70-1

27 Mal 1955

TENTATIVE

CSI NO. 70-1

CHAPTER VII - PART A

---

## Page 11

HI

still

.:2

pp

Stult

3E/3

SE DIVISION

Chief

Deputy Chief

SE /4

Figure 4

PM

Stall

SE/5

LOUTINE SERVICES

ASTION NO, 90-1

3E/0

10. VI

CHAPTER VIL - PART A

* 87 May sess

13-00000

---

## Page 12

WE/1

WE/2

pp

Stall

WE DIVISION

Chie!

Depuly Ch!+:

WE/3

WE/4

Pleure sa

WEA

Admin.

Bient

CLANDESTINE SERVICES

INSTRUCTION NO. 70-1

CHAPTER VU - PART

18-00000

---

## Page 13

13-00000

CLANDESTINE SERVICES

ESTRUCTION NO. 70-1

WH DIVISION

Chief

Deputy Chies

PP

Stall

WH/1

WK/2

Figure 6

bb-EN.SD

10

SECRET

TENTATIVE

Cst No, 70-1

CHAPIER VII - PART A

27 May 1955

Admin.

Stall

WH/3

*fron cheens (Die)

i963

CHICA

Certe 7

---

## Page 14

13-00000

C-0-I-3-1-D-E-H-I-I-1

Thio iotiee Epires 28 December 1950

CLANDESTINE SERVICES

NOTICE NO. 5-99

CSN NO. 5-99

GENERAL

28 November 1960

Beleased: 30 Mov. 1960, i?

RESCISSION NOTICE

The fullowing publications are hereby rescinded:

Tentative CSI No. 1-1 (formerly CSI No. 70-1), Chapter 11,

Pert. A, ORCANIZATION AND PUXCTIONS, OFFICE OF THS DEPUTY

DIRECTOR (PIANS), dated 11 March 1955.

TENTOTURCSOIS, PLAT LGAATE PTTC R OO ORATON STONT,

AND FUNCTIONS,

dated 22 July 1957.

"Igures I through o of Tentetive (SI No. 1-1 (formerl

SI No. 70-1); Chapter VII, Part A, ORGAFIZATION. AN

FUNCTIONS, AREA DIVISIONS, dated 27 May 1955..

CSI 25-2, TRATNING OY CLANDESTINE SERVICES PERSONIZ,

dated 21 January 1953°

CSI NO. 70-3, AREA DIVISION ISS LIAISON OFFICERS, dat ed

24 February 1955.

RICRARD M. BISSELL, JR.

Deputy Director

(Plans)

C-0-I-

---

## Page 15

13-00000

SIEREI

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1993

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW FROGRAM

48 PH °78

5 July 1978

MEMORANDUM FOR: Mr. Norbert Shephanek, PCS / LOC

FROM

: Chief, CIA History Staff

SUBJECT

: Organization Chart for the Deputy Directorate

for Plans (DDP), 1963

REFERENCE

: Telecon from N. Shephanek to J. Pfeiffer,

30 June 1978, same subject.

1. In response to your telephone call of 30 June 1978,

History Staff was unable to locate any single chart which

showed the organization of the Deputy Directorate for Plans

as of 1963. We did find a complete set of charts for the

individual Staff Elements, the Functional Divisions, and the

Geographic Area Divisions of the DDP as of 25 February 1963.

2. Based on the organization charts for these individual

components (including the Office of the DDP), History Staff

has prepared a chart which is believed to be an accurate

reflection of the DDP organization as of 25 February 1963.

3. If you require further details concerning the organ-

ization of the individual components as of the date noted

above, please let me know.

Jack B. Pfriffer

DI. Jack B. Pfeiffer

Chief, CIA History Staff

203 Key Building, x2621

Attachment:

Organization

chart

SECRET

UNCLASSIFIED when removed

from SECRET attachment.

1444

EB INFDET EL 7+ 018645

---

## Page 16

13-00000

SECRET

OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY DIRECTOR FOR PLANS*

DEPUTY DIRECTOR (PLANS)

ASST. DEPUTY DIRECTOR (PLANS)

STAFF ELEMENTS

• Counter

Intelligence

Special

Affairs

Covert

Action

Foreign

Intelligence

FUNCTIONAL DIVISIONS

Operational Services

Records Integration**

Technical Services

Special Operations

AREA DIVISIONS

Western Europe

Soviet Russia

Western Hemisphere

Near East

Far East

Eastern Europe

Africa

**

As of 25 Feb 1963

As of 28 Dec 1963

"SECRET

---

