# 104-10172-10293

## Page 1

104-10172-10293

DiSPATCH

(E7EA) 45553

22.

Calot, 59

¡Alor, or.

=08-91901

Chief of bralla

LiANA IDEO

DAT MI13

Go. oil: 13 5004129

02

ConsODE DAT, ParTa. I Bol ra

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

• Do Nat Reproduce

(Ti) 6223, 1 Dresses 1959

1.

Dy tara y of horaponce no atated lial me did not Dias to peel SeE a

brend selle brio for liftain: miraa son anique operallonal apportally

• Jon, thore 10 a pooalsillly that this altuation esy cor

travelllay, across the 8533 to Vadircatch on the Iras-Siberlan Illrond,

When through chies stopping al futine and shanghal, and en lo Hong lose.

Dolub has been in rares of such a lrip and has alatod that 16 largely dosended

on bor obtaining a Chinass vias, Os the annivermary of the alening as lle

Bino-soviet Friesdaip Ireaty no puld a enli to sho Chiende Coamlate

told Chas of sor plana la Maniab, and they replled that mch a trip ma

quila pommible and ebal arrangeanto could bo ede Rarougì Lonsala 07,

thn local countet travel bureau.

She thes plalood ber aftertion In

Malalaks sa a fulbrigal stadent. too Connal very polltaly told bar Chas Rare

Its rust underatand that there my be nome diffioully in bor obtaining the

ven ao an Ameriona bat Chat he vould be villlog lo roqueas pormlanion.

Bo almo seatod that she sunt enderutand that their tro conseries had so

arMlelal rolnticos and that sto must aloe roquest permission fres bur co

ocaneryo sno anmored list sha mallued all saio but firal ma jun intorestod

In the possibilitles of such a trip, entor lasring the Consulato, ano stoned

Goluo to loll his abero ate bed been nod that mince sha know she soniora sol

Chinese mould be calebrating on loas pureicalar evening that sho rould be

Interanted 1n baring my oozenta the chiano Consul might puss no to cali

OZcalub shoned 043/5 the maxt morning and bald her that the tondo did come up

and that to had told la Chinese Coaral that Arts fad slao been so the soules

Consulato Inquiriag sa to the possibilitles of trevolling acroes Cha trans

siberdan Hallvey.

Galub tated that bo told the Chiness Consal that lo

D2kneu 175 personally and thought meh a trip a good Idod. The Calaron Conti

remponded thet there might ho a good abano for bor to got the vina end that

ha doubted 1f a Pesale stodont ecild do unch her la China, Lonnella 0y

Diald B515 that they could arrange such a trip as long as the visa ves la ardos.

No realise the legal mad international diffloultles fros our alde 15 o

quosting meh a trip but vonld at1ll under too circumstances llke to bave «

Headgartora roading on the altuation, lie doubt 18 thie la a realo travelled

very much and a pare obeorvatio oinaton alche be definitely vorth our mailo.

0281noo (12/5 has recalved un artonion of her fibright frant until apriage

abo sould nako much & trep the ood. el ratg to early reply would bo appreciated.

2. Prior lo dalub'e doparture

that or abe agrood be moald like to Introdace hor to mat f9 tornad lue peter

pallelcal offleer in lhe Soulel inbanK, VikSOr VLASIXIROT

Minted ss 20d

Secretary on the lif. List).

Caluo explaloed that since do vould do louvlas

Malaad, ho vould liko hor so nonl uhoa la ecoldored to be lho toot

Intelligat offloer in the Sovlal imbany" and who vould erjoy ourrylay

Bho ecoverantion evaningali A115 mid shat aho had so objections us lone

as 1t did not intertare wich her schoad mork.

A roy days ago COLOs arranged

Innonnon Por to ebreo of Chen at the lostlkartano Sostaurant 1n Nslatat1,

02 (75"a 1n161a1 lapredalca al Mallalroy vaa Chat Do vas cold, berineselle

diroct, and pot a person vita man l1 sould be enay to becozo Miesdo.

adsod bor sary parations about her seboal vort and hor echolarhis to 71aiando

Prior to leaviar Vladialro alalod lal Do voald like to sos ber co d rarel.

047s reconned that abe ecald not sue pate any plana last car la advance doe

to le huary load of hor mearch prejeet, Malairio roplied lbal esca Do

muld call her setuper 0'30 and 0000 'area a lo seo 18 sha mueld be free Lbal

i Ta. 3 1 80/908P

* $3

de comrades

---

## Page 2

14-00000

CONIINUATION OF

DISPATCH

(n)33

in sorter arsalon celus aali do vould nry such Ilão to cerreates.

"i wontod that he unald liare re

mand all il kla lobbers chragh the alpliantle luch in bar.

Do coll ber

bar letiura lo Vlocialroy neo

a son abe urela to die abo drula blas roamaded that are vas tot

med correspnadeal ard lhat ass oculd nel urteard uhy coins ouid ait 880

11eo, abe fold Ma aba nafected to giviry puramal lettero

Do someone 11%o MIndiniron as sho vas not secustoned to harlad har lottera

Gol us roaronded that he could fuarantoe her that no one would open

Dar letters. Mo saltar roe droppe.

S10eo vilelas our last dlopared on lift nad wales, entr rolatscantle

remised mehnaged.

Moro Ma t1ll en suspiéina or preasure placad on (44/s

develop Into lo too carly lo toll, but ll7i look an timediato diallio lo

tho latter mad bas so dealro to contine the postingo as (roqueally as vita

Me will keep you Inforued on the progrona nod renlise loe algalfleanoe

al set a contaos la relation to the proposed rotura trip.

Willien Lo Costille

1 Eurch 1960

Di tribution

3 - SR

2 - M0E

2 -

Addenda &

5/5 has just controted ua vith Bose added information concerning the

trip to Vladivoator.

On her last soeting with Golub she again brought ap

the trip and told hit she vas sorry he was leaving at thie particular 11uo

as abe night deod his bolp in getting the necessary vias. Colas told ber

she should not vorry about this bocause be had given her name, along with

bour 50 other poople's names, to the new Soviet Consul, Ivan Sergeye

1-110

1420), with instructions that if and when they applied for Sovle1

vlass they could be approved lecediately.

"Besidos," he addod, "] will

be on the Flaniah deal in Moscou and respondiblo for the final approval of

visa requeato sent fros tho Sortot kabasay in Helainki." He aloo said that

be thought ahe roule bare no difficulty in getting approval to eo to

Madirontok shere she could get airplane connections to Pekine.

(1tl8 8008

aloy with an earller consent cade by Viktor Logal that he bellered

Madivontal vould be soon mule an open city.)

---

