# 104-10218-10106

## Page 1

104-10218-10106

ThI»

iy.

part

lacoble

Thores cop

Dada

Fill

for item, use

8. CRYPTONTA

SECRET

PRO NO.

PERSONAL RECORD QUESTIONNAIRE

PART 11 - OPERATIONAL INFORMATION

DISPATCH AO.

INSYRUCTIONS TO CASE OFFICER

offaero of appropriato authorily or tha bases of lAe

DOSE AFAIDABlO IN.

on approval unloss requester

approval say

furnishes

be obtained

OrRUOTE

complyine

MARA RhO ap.

128

and 12d.

Therealer sho

usual nothos

document or

€aM.

FR

subject's hondarisine, al possibled and too 68) com.

TIMED.

in 800 13) ropies

number.

urete

"NA.

8f additional space repuired

PSEUDONYM

SECTION

CONTACT AND DEVELOPMEMT

INDICATE HON. WHER, EMERE, ANY, AND BY ANCH SUBJECT NAS FIRST CONTACTED OR DEVELOPED.

I 814199700

INDICATE METHER

SUBJECT GOLIO DE TURNSO OVER QUICKLY AND IN A SECURE MANNED TO DUE REISDASIBLE CASE DEFICER SOP

HANDLING.

INDICATE

nowhow.

....

:?!=

111090.uü

+ 59.80010

clini.

.....

"weater:

LIST OTHER CASE OFFICERS

DEEN KNOON.

.!?.

181d

WHO MAVE HANDLED SUQJECT OR ANON ME ANONS OR MAS I VOWN, GIVE NAMES BE ANICH THEY HAVE

...:

chron 2:

12"0

that?

11ia"

11 6271606 dete doi

trase the recest, to car headlar de

3131.

ised

F0Rм 1050a

3-99

T6-208 :

SECRET

Mislaint needle

---

## Page 2

1d-0d0d

SECRET

SECTION 1

MOTIYATION AND CONTPOL

1. ESTIMATE SUBJECT-S MOTIVATION, (BO detallod, of ponsablo cito exidence. Do eat ude siock cosmont auch do

Gontunada.

INDICATE

WHAT CONTAOL. IF ANY.

EXISTS OVER THE SUBJECT. (Al nO

of reol control

SECTION

COVER

1. COVER USED BY SUBJECT AND CASE OFFICER IN THEIR MEETINGS.

2. COVER USED BY SUBJECT IN OBTAINING HIS INFORMATION AND IN CONTACTING HIS INFORMANIS.

INDICATE SERVICE

FOR

#MICH

SUBJECT THINKS NE (Will orky (ls auriend).

SECTION IV

INTELLIGENCE CORNECTIONS AND TRAINING

EXPLAIA SUBJECT'S KOONN PAST OR PRESENT CONNECTION "ITH

ANY OTHEA INTELLIGEACE SERVICE, INUILAIF THE EXTENT

SUCH CONNECTION IS KNOWN OVERTLY.

EXPLAIN ANY TRAINING SUBJECT HAS HAD IN CLANDESTINE OPERATIONS.

!!!"

trig

SECTION V

COLLABORATION POTENTIAL

INDICATE OTHER

FOREIGE POMER SUBJECT ADULO BE MOST LIKELY TO COLLABORATE

WITH

BECAUSE OF HIS BOLDLOGY

OR PAST

ASSOCIATIONS.

EXPLAIN.

:::;"

it

coolestle: c

it contrad. 00! 10.

202.00

fire tan

Grind.

SECRET

---

## Page 3

14-00000

:

ContInued

Section II. 1.

2. She undoubtedly 18 patriotic but disaprees stronaly with certain PBERNE policies.

3. She 15, at the tire being at least, almost completely dependent on the KUEARs

salary paid her.

san.......

Lest i de is holleris"

stad titin in sinterine

---

## Page 4

• .

SECRET

SECTION'

OPERATIONAL

USE

CONTACT

1F SUBJECT MAS DIES USED DE CONTACIED GEFORE, INDICATE ACTIVITY IN MUICH HE DAS ENGAGED ASD TAI HYPE DE IPUSSH-

MATION

•..*

INDICATE HOE

AND FRON ANDS SUBJECT OBTAINS INFORMATION.

S. INDICATE ANAT HAS BEEN TOLD SUBJECT AS TO INE DISPOSITION OF INFORMATION ME FURNISHES.

• "*

;.:":?

DETAIL SUBJICTOS PROPOSED FI OR CI TYPE USE OR DUTIES.

3. DITATE SUBJECT•S FOSPOST

:2.:.:..1

UST OR BUTTES

SECTION VII

PROPOSED LIAISON OR OPERATIONAL ACTIVITY

DETAIL SUBJECT'S PASPOSED LIAISO TIRE SDITAÇI DR SREPATIOSAL USE .

A. "HERE SUBJECI IS AN OFFICIAL MEMBER OF A FOREIGN GOVERNMENT:

"I'd

• 10÷903.1"

B. WHERE SUBJECT IS AN OFFICIAL MEMBER OF AN ODOKE AGENCY:

iting. in:

SECTION VIII

AGENCY RELATIONSHIP WITH SUBJECT

RELATIONSHIO WITH SUBJECTS DOE, TRAINEE, OPPOSITE NUMBER, RENUVERATION. OF ANT: AGENCY

PERSONNEL ANONA TO SUBJECT.

3i00 Cerebio

"rar

curle Ma ceraline Borgotly

serviceig

Is paid 40a 250.00 Perchiv;

-90 1395970071011119991

catcher

For ter

For

3

SECRET

---

## Page 5

SECRET

SECTION 1X

QUALIFICATIONS FOR OTHER DREPATIONS

INDICATE SPECIAL GRILITIES, PALENTS, OR QUALIFICATIONS POSSESSED DO SUBJECE ANICH COULO CONCELUGEL. BE OF MALEE

OTHER OPERATIJAS.

112?

SECTION X

COMMI THEA TS

IF

IS PROPOSED

SPAr

COUMODITILS.

INDICATE TAL DEERLY AMOUNT, IF PAYMENT 1O DE MADE IN IREN

SUASIDY OR OTHER METHOD, SPECIFY AND GIVE DETAILS.

Cubject

025.911

corridies, solelies or

1?X.21d

irts

2.

OTHERMISE NOY COVERED MEREIO, MADE TO SUBJECT, (EXARDIE. COUMAIMONIS

famely.)

1. te:?

-this

!:!"

• About

21."

1:31;

1IC

^1'

ieet.macin

::

!??'

srir

nitri, "it

•.294-

SECTION XI

CE AND SECURITY

LODICATE THE FIELO AGENCIES AND GIELD FILES MITH OMICH SUBJECS-S NAME HAS BEEN CHECKED AND THE IS.

model

LICENTO -

AOTEATE OTHER TSESTTSATIVE MEASURES TAREY TO VEDIFY BIOGRAPMIERE

INtORMATION FURLISHED BY

p::=00°1

encoraint

1722300106 162. 01'22

Paring: Not

INDICATE

WHETHER T9 45T

PAOTTASHAL

APPROVAL OR OFENGTIOLAL AP.

PROVAL FOR SUBJECT'S USE HAS BEEN PREPIOUSLY OBTAIDED.

DATE APPADIAL DOTAIRED

EVALUATE SUBJECTES CORDACIEN, RELIABILITY AND SECURITY, CITING EVIDENCE MIERE POSSIBLE.

;.2?121:

-..a on "casion/ineolo deal snint or vier,

or isaacs

2.

camill

load not

G.

55:7182:

c: aocuri

5.:0»

malaria:

11s

125790

rainie,

ribera she d0:211.r:

EXPLAIN

ANY SITUATION

OR

INDISCRETIDR IN AMICH SUBJECY MAY HAVE BEES INVOLVED AMICH MUST BE EVALUATEO ERJOR A

CE/OPERATIONAL

SECURITT VIEWPOINT.

is ludlocaica not imom croade do catciuerars con ba cited ióri, 15a cas

cost ace wen in moct dale the latter as in tadeo,

le not feecordt:" to her) ear

munna, dreact 30012222 1nd cita 0690ra

SECTION KII

SUBJECT'S PERSONAL MADITS

1. USE OF LIQUOR. DRUGS:

GAMBLING, PARANOURS.

unect irnia socially, biù is not tolleved to sink excesaivel. Eradar, d'e 13

no loliered to coe druno of' ony tina, exceed for reiteinal curredes and iderán.

incited anitations.

orally, che

Ful not ie grainst it: didna, but sais are ies

not trile, Maranour have toen covend elsartare in this for.

SECRET

---

## Page 6

Section XI, 5.

30

Securitys The has proven to be reasoratly security conselous, hounver, her

Intirate relationship with Ll'iLlCil,

and rossible with others

constitute potential security intards.

The 13 descreet in her phone conversations

with the case officer, md in the rectanies of miin. reetlas.

She sonetimes tures

down necting places surcasted by the case officer, savinr that some of her

noquaintances visit the place or the area surrested, or that coulet and/or Satellite

personnel are believed to visit the piace or era.

The (reatest potential securits

hazard, the polter belleves, is the type of situation, nesual and/or erotional

Involverent, which she wirht allow herselr to becore involved in.

Section XI, 6e

2. In an effort to pavo the say for Illudis retum to lexico, she lia

Incereedad :1th various lexican Coverarent of cials, and caused certain

she orridec

copies of letter written, and received lucm LILUCk, clipidem from the press,

and suraries of her conversations with ledcan Covement personnel.

---

## Page 7

SECRET

SECTION RElI

AVOCATIONAL INTERESTS

S• IADICATE SUBJECT-S HOBBIES OR INTEREST IN SPORTS, MUSIC. ETC.

shock desca. 23990212169

1101: 50191t

SECTICE

XIV

GENERAL

DEA COUNTRE DE SCROS OTHER NEARE SOUNT ES ALA OMER CHAMACTERISTICS, ARE SUCH AS ME CONLO PASS AS A NATIVE

OE A COUMYRY ON AF104 OTHER

sect late to presidal doerence, do could parall not post do trateee

cition contri

INDICATE WHETHER IUFCRUATION

1& PRO PARTS I AND

CORDESPONDENCE OR OTHER MEANS.

,..i

it taint!

on tra dr for colon cottad.tar 1

wrest tin"

#AS OBTAINED BY RESEARCH, CLANDESTINE

ASSESSMENT.

1ti1s

11902 1o20 Ted

FILES.

..:}1

/ORER YAN POUTINS SCION IS PEQUIRED, IF AND NHER TERMINATION OF SUBJECT IS ERECTED, OLGASE EXPLANA: (A1D0

sapra)

he gates matten doude ar

SECTION XY

DHERGENCY CORDITIONS

RECCH TACT

ARRAHGEMENTS

GIVE FULL DETAILS I.E, RECOGNITION SIGNALS, S'#:

COIN COYTACT BE MADE:

MARINE CONTACT USES

^.?:.

in: 3

t09tot1s

ix.

Do cataster sa 1212

101 "1re Dua care hes cean tira 60 ter Cor tire Coroa

coricor code te uner.

t!5

ДИАТ ДОДА ГАРЕСТСОУКО

101H: CHE:

31 T-1,

SECTION XVI

MISCELLANEOUS OPERATIONAL

DATA AND REMARKS

100101110 Comtoced Protestio Mith Catal de112

cluele to concirbances,

÷318

DO 2511:5

in ircicine coontial cittalio.

Cádiso mice te rosicite and revon tich

Pois

Che aho:0d decialtaid not de diven ang more infortion con

for vor to averanlia: he tasion arained tor.

atised ales bore, due pericero selectie to condie sould do rature, 290 ecarteners

in6 8.636 105

be youncer than site

It 1o colora that a axerienced concle care

secur peter aprocinate ad could co to valia de nes letter, tian a rate coco

DATE

10 CrANe 1163

5

SECRET

---

