# 104-10102-10180

## Page 1

104-10102-10180

4 April 1977

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT:

Comments on George de Mohrenschildt (201-155221)

According to the Warren Commission Report, page 283,

". . . George

de Mohrenschildt is a highly individualistic

erson of varied interests.

was born in (Mozyr) in the

ussian Ukraine in (17 April) 1911 and fled Russia with hi

parents in 1921 during the civil disorder following the

revolution. He was in a Polish cavalry military academy for

1 1/2 years. Later he studied in Antwerp

and attended the

University of Liege from which he received a doctor's degree

in international commerce in 1928.

Soon thereafter, he emi-

grated to the United States; he became a U.S.

citizen in 1949.

De Mohrenschildt

eventually became interested in oil explora-

tion and production; he entered the University of Texas in

1944 and received a master's degree in petroleum geology and

petroleum engineering in 1945.

He has since become active

as a petroleum engineer throughout the world.

the death of his son, he and his wife made an 8-n 19 hike

after

from the United States-Mexican border to Panama over primitive

jungle trails.

By happenstance they were in Guatemala City

at the time

of the Bay of Pigs invasion.

A lengthy film and

complete written log was prepared by

de Mohrenschildt and a

report of the trip was made to the U.S. Government.

arriving in Panama they journeyed to Haiti where de Mohren-

schildt eventually became involved in a Government-oriented

business venture in which he has been engaged continuously

since June 1963 . . ..

Somewhat of a non-conformist, de Mohrenschildt was a

peripheral member of the

Russian community,

in Dallas,

with which Lee Harvey Oswald made contact through Peter Gregory,

1 Russian-speaking petroleum engineer whom Oswald met as i

result of his contact with the

Texas Employment Commissio

office in Fort Worth.

Occasional contacts with de Mohrenschildt

and his wife continued until May 1963 when

the de Mohrenschildt's

went to Haiti.

There is voluminous material on de Mohrenschildt in

CIA files,

of it dating

post-Kennedy

assassi-

nation period when he testified before

the Warren Commission

E2 IMPDET

CL BY

061197

RETUAN TO CLA

Background Use tidy

Do Not Reproduce

12918

---

## Page 2

1344M

on his acquaintance with Lee Harvey Oswald and the latter's

The testimony given by de Mohrenschildt and his wife

appear in Volume IX of the Hearings before the President's

Commission on the Assassination of President Kennedy, pages

166 - 331.

4. The bulk of the material in Agency files consists

reports,

the most recent of which is dated 1967.

FBI has informed CIA that it has no traces on

de Mohrenschildt

beyond that date.

(Memorandum no. 76-3000 from the IG to the

Director, 22 September 1976.)

ur files show that a mail cover was placed on letter.

addressed to de Mohrenschildt,

c/o the United States Embassy

in Haiti, from about 1964 to 1966.

This included opening and

photographing the contents of some letters by the Station there.

The results of the operations were shared with the FBI.

(Memorandum no. 76-3000 cited above.)

(The genesis of

mail operation

is not readily available. A search is being

made to find it.)

• The most recent information relating to de Mohren-

schildt is correspondence dated 5 September 1976 from him to

the Director, George Bush.

De Mohrenschildt claims that he

and his wife

"find ourselves surrounded by some vigilantes;

our phone bugged and we are being followed everywhere.

the FBI is involved in this or they

do not want to accept my

complaints.

We are driven to insanity by this

De Mohrenschildt goes

on to ask the Director if he could do

something "to remove this net around us."

According to a note from the Director, he had first

met de Mohrenschildt in the early 40's.

"He was an uncle

my Andover roommate".

The Director has not heard from him

for many years until the letter

The Director res-

ponded to de Mohrenschildt's letter

on 28 September 1976.

(A copy of this material is attached as an enclosure to

Memorandum no. 76-3000 from the IG under Tab A.)

Earlier in 1976, the Agency received information

from Mr. J. Walton Moore

who had been contacted in May anc

July 1976 by writers connected with the Reader's Digest,

and with the Dial Press

Both writers questioned Mr. Moore

and the Dell Publishing Company.

about Oswald and Mr. de

Mohrenschildt.

(Moore's reports on these contacts are

attached to the IG Memorandum.)

2

---

## Page 3

De Mohrenschildt appears to have lead

and colorful life as a petroleum engineer

and businessman.

He is both well and poorly connected, and some of his

associations have raised serious questions.

(See paragraph

10 below.)

Certainly his relationship with the Oswald's

has caused this Agency and the FBI to spend more time and

on him in the past than was necessary:

Both the FBI

and this Agency, however, had dropped their

interests in

de Mohrenschildt's activities by the mid-to-late 1960's.

One of de Mohrenschildt's more questionable

the Washington Post and the Washington Stai, Oltmans, a Dutch

contacts (not covered in his 201 file) has been reported in

According to

the 31 March 1977 issue of the Star,

journalist, began cultivating de Mohrenschildt as

as a friend some ten years ago.

According to

Oltmans' file he was born on 10 June 1925

He studied at Yale in 1950 and was expelled Hu lisbehavior

(financial problems?).

For a short time he worked for the

United Press and De Telegraff a Dutch newspaper; however, he

was fired from both.

1956 or 1957 he married

ground stewardess.

In 1960 he divorced her

and in November

1961 was living with a Filipino male.

Oltmans was admitted

to the United

States in New York City as a permanent resident

on 10 June 1958.

Numerous field reports indicate that in 1956

Oltmans arranged an introduction for himself to President

Sukarno.

He then traveled with Sukarno during the President's

trip through Europe in 1956 as the President's guest.

trip from Indonesia to the US in Feb 57 was paid by the

Indonesian government.

Indications are that he was being used

the Indonesian government to carry on propaganda

in the US and at the UN.

b. In March 1960 Oltmans described himself as anti-

communist.

He stated his views are at best those of a great

admirer of communism and what the communist system represents.

He was described as having excellent contacts with all the

communist-dominated countries, including Cuba.

According to press reports, on 18 December 1962

Oltmans announced he intended to take legal action against

Dutch Foreign Minister J. "M. instructions from Luns" a declara-

Oltmans alleged

that he had been refused

3

---

## Page 4

government

government, Prosecute Luns for "lying and misleading the

on Indonesia during his

as foreign

minister.

The 19 and 20 January 1972 issues of Dutch paper

De Telegraaf carry articles exposing activities Oltmans who

engaged in denigration

campaign against Luns.

accuse Soviets

of collusion with Oltmans and of interference

in Dutch internal affairs.

d. In 1963 Oltmans was a journalist at the UN

connected with an obscure Dutch newspaper.

The other

journalists claimed to never have seen anything of Oltmans'

in print.

While at the UN Oltmans applied for membership

in the UN correspondence association.

not produce a single clipping to demonstrate his journalistic

activities.

about $6000 per season Indonesia specifically.

During this time, he gave lectures, earning

on international politics, touching

on Asia in general and

He claims

to have grown up in Indonesia and therefore knows the condi-

tions there.

In November 1963,

report described

Subject as

and

"outspoken anti-American,

outspoken pro-Indonesian,

persona non-grata with the Dutch."

In April 1967 Subject claimed to have sold an

article to RAMPARTS magazine about the CIA in Indonesia.

However, the article was never printed.

Garrison on

In February 1968, Subject interviewed Jim

Dutch TV about the

Kennedy assassination.

h. In February 1972 a liaison report described

Subject as

an emotionally disturbed publicity seeker who

doesn't seem to care what type publicity he receives.

1. In 1972 Oltmans was planning to make a film in

the USSR on ecology.

He visited the USSR 23-26 January 1972

serwake claimed sangect had d's-year retainer trom

At this time,

Dutch

as overt PR man. (No indication in file if film ever made.)

Subject's Travel: 1956 - met and accompanied

Indonesia.

President Sukarno on European t7I960 - Congo.

December 1956 - visited

February 57 - USA.

1961 - E. Ger-

197Y - DeSks lovakia, Poland, Hungary:

- Cuba.

January

- USSR.

February - March 1972

- USA. March 1972 - USSR.

(DIRECTOR 851765, 10 May 1976)

---

## Page 5

An earlier document dated 1 February 1972 from

Dutch services provides information

relating to Oltmans'

contacts with various Soviet officials

including one

Kuznetsov, Cultural Attache in the Soviet Embassy in The

lague, who, it is believed,

may be the same Kuznetzov whom

Jitmans and de Mohrenschildt met in Brussels on 5

A check of Soviets in Brussels reveals

the name of

Vladimir Kuznetsov who arrived in Brussels in September 1976.

under Tab B.)

Vladimir Kuznetsov

Vladimir Sergeyevich Kuznetsov, a GRU staff officer.

(DIRECTOR 914708, 13 September 1976.)

Although Oltmans may be described as an unscrupulous

publicity seeker,

his contacts with the Soviets (not fully

explained) and de Mohrenschildt add a sinister quality which,

unless proven to be otherwise, may have an adverse effect

upon the Agency's role in the present investigation into

the Kennedy assassination.

Ka. Nolmer

Russell B. Holmes

Attachments:

Tab A

and B

Distribution:

1 - C/CI/OG w/atts.

1 - IG w/atts.

1 - SA/DO/O w/atts.

---

