104-10337-10008)

11 March 1993

,

NOTE FOR: Deput: irector for Operations

FROM: eter Earnest
Chief, Media Relations

SUBJECT: WASHINGTON POST Request to Talk to an Agency te
Specialist on the Kennedy Assassination KO Va

The WASHINGTON POST is preparing a series of articles on oO
the occasion of the 30th anniversary of the Kennedy =
assassination.

With the help of CIC, we recently arranged for George
Lardner and Walter Pincus of the WASHINGTON POST to interview YW
former KGB officer Yuri Nosenko about his knowledge of Lee
Harvey Oswald during the time Oswald lived in the Soviet
Union. To ensure that Nosenko's resettlement identity and
location would remain protected, I made the arrangements for
Nosenko to come to Washington for the interview.

The POST reimbursed Nosenko for expenses and paid him a
$250 consulting fee. The interview was done on Wednesday,
3 March, at the POST offices downtown. I did not remain for
it. Lardner and Pincus also hosted a lunch for Nosenko which
was attended by Ben Bradlee. Lardner and Pincus were very
pleased with their session with Nosenko and appreciative of
our making it possible. I also spoke afterwards with Nosenko
who said he was satisfied with how the interview was
conducted and with the financial arrangements.

Shortly after the interview, Lardner faxed me a list of
the questions that he and Pincus had prepared for themselves
to use in checking out Nosenko's information. They asked if
there was anyone at the Agency they could talk to about the
individuals named. I told them that developing information
in response to:their questions would probably take a good
deal of research arid.that I doubted the Agency would be able
to take on such a task at this time for the POST. However, I
said I would take it up with the appropriate offices.

Although I told the POST that I do not believe anyone
would be willing to undertake research on their questions,
I'm wondering if there is anyone around who might be
knowledgeable of Nosenko's information who would be willing
to talk with Lardner and Pincus on background based on
his/her existing knowledge. I think Lardner and Pincus would
be grateful for making such a person available even if


SUBJECT: WASHINGTON POST Request

all their questions aren't answered. Considering that they
are trying to do serious research on the Kennedy
assassination, I think any effort on our part to help them
would be seen as a gesture of good will.

Ke

4 :
Petes Earnest

Attachment :
As stated

—____Agree to having a specialist talk to them on background
about the Nosenko information if an appropriate person is
available.

—_____No, do not want anyone from the DO talking about the
Nosenko information.


SUBJECT:

WASHINGTON POST Request to Talk to an Agency

specialist in the Kennedy Assassination

DCL/PAI/Earnest :ncbx37758 (11 March 1993)

Distribution:

Original

BERR

Addressee

ADDO

SA/DDO

DO Registry
D/PAI

D/DO/cIC
C/DO/NROC
C/DO/CE

c/cst
C/History Staff


13-00000

Names of Russians we should try to track down about Lee Harvey Oswald, Yuri Nosenko and the
assassination:

nods Noscako aye he wacked. primsily agaist Americas asus: t deputy cit of tie Seren
where Nosenko says he worked, prii against American tourists, as ty
Department. Nosenko described himself as sort of favored by Gribanov and he said Gribanov in-
structed him, after the JFK assassination, to retrieve the Oswald file from the Minsk KGB right
away.

2 AR naeaeake, deputy chief of the Second Chief Directorate or one ofits departments, at
time a Lad ai ad hain ert pai
going over the all-important first volume—and finding KGB had nothing ith Oswald-when a
BGR ctnent from tha Fat Di epartment came in and picked it up on Gribanov’s ordery, to review it

aeummary ; on

3. The officer who picked it up was Col. Matveey, deputy chief{I think) of First(or American) De-
partment, Second Chief Directorate. Unhave first name.

4. Chief of this First Department was Col. Sergei M, Fedoseyev or Fedoseev and presumably he
would hava hed a hand in or supervised preparation of the ka” or summary, . :
§. Gribanov and more than 40 other KGB officers were kicked out because of Nosenko’'s defection,
acconding to Nosenko. That right? What faypered 7

6. Rastrusin, Was in 1959 a senior case officer in KGB responsible for Intourist mat-
ters. says that it was Rastrusin who told him about Oswald and how he wanted to stay in
Sovist Union. Nosenko said Rastrusin said Oswald “docsn’t present interest” to KGB and Noeenko
checked out with his superiors. Word came back not to bother with Oswald. Nosenko was told to tell
Rastrusin to tell Intourist to deal with him.

7. Rastrusin returned next day and said we got a problem. Oswald tried to kill self, etc. KGB
washed hands of him, decided to let Intourist deal with him. Intourist then part of Ministry of For-
eign Trade. Nosenko said be believes question of what to do with Oswald was run to top of that min-
istry and beyond, to Khruschev or one of his deputies. In any case, decision was made to let Oswald
"Bin te fl of 100d HE-L-Turalin, Service No. 2counterinteligence fn foreign

a ol fo. 2(co'

countries), First Chief Directorate, told Nosenko orally that Mexico City station had just sent a cable
about a request by Oswald for a visa to re-enter Soviet Union. What should be done? :
Nosenko said he said, ‘wait a second. How come he’s back in America?” At that point, Nosenko said
oy wo ald be sd kets g ae of who he ident Col Chetnekov
_ 9. Nosenko ’s go to chief of department identified a8 a or
Chelnenko(but later seemed to say his timing might be off and somebody else may have been chief of
Nosenko’s department at the time). In any case, Nosenko quoted chief as saying, in effact, Iremem-
ber this crazy nut. No. No. No. Tell them we don’t kave any interest.’

Cable back to Mexico City advising KGB there get rid of Oswald by telling him to go back to his
own country and apply for a-visa at Soviet Embassy in Washington, etc., etc.

10. Col. Gruntey, was chief of the KGB department in Minsk that was responsible for foreigners

11. Olex Necivorsao, one of tres KGB otcrs station in Mexico Cty who reportedly inte.
rogated or dealt jswald on his visit to Embassy there. Now living in Moscow area.


Center for the Study of Intelligence
28 June 1994

Mr. Anthony Summers
Still Point
Dromore

Aglish, Cappoquin
Co. Waterford
Ireland

Dear Mr. Summers:

This is in response to your letter of 25 May 1994 to
David Gries regarding the possible existence of tape
recordings of Oswald's conversations with the Cuban and
Soviet embassies in Mexico City until at least April 1964.
As evidence of this possibility you cite FBI Director
Hoover's statement the day after the assassination that his
agents had listened to the tapes. You also state that
Messrs. Coleman and Slawson recalled that Winston Scott
arranged for them to listen to a tape recording of Oswald's
conversations during their visit to Mexico City in April
1964 and that a senior CIA officer provided the tape to
them.

In its review of CIA files on Oswald and the”
assassination of President Kennedy, the CIA Historical
Review Group (HRG) found no tape recordings of Oswald's
conversations with the Soviet or Cuban embassies.. We did
find transcriptions of such conversations and a number of
documents stating that the tapes themselves had been
routinely erased prior to the assassination. Nor has any
tape been found in the FBI files. :

The inconsistency. you point out flows from a number of
misstatements and errors made in documents immediately after
the assassination. While these were corrected, the original
errors continue to raise questions regarding the tapes. The
following excerpts illustrate this point:

1. FBI Dallas To FBI HQ, 23 November 1963: “Inasmuch
as the Dallas Agents who listened to the tape of
conversation allegedly of Oswald from the Cuban Embassy to
the Russian Embassy in Mexico and examined the photographs

Central Intelligence Agency
Washington, D.C. 20505
(703) 351-2698 Fax (703) 243-8343


of the visitor and were of the opinion that neither the tape
nor the photograph pertained to Oswald,..."

2... FBI Director to the President, 23 November 1963:
“Special Agents of this Bureau... have observed photographs
of the individual referred to above and have listened to a
recording of his voice. These Special Agents are of the
opinion that the above-referred to individual was not Lee
Harvey Oswald."

3. FBI SAC, Dallas, 23 November 1963 Cable to FBI
Director: “ It should be noted that the actual tape from
which this transcript [of Oswald's call] was made has been
erased." -

4. Legal Attaché (FBI), Mexico City, Cable to FBI
Headquarters, 25 November 1963: “Tapes obtained by CIA...
here erased after two weeks, following making of typewritten
transcripts of contents of these tapes. There appears to be
some confusion in that no tapes were taken to Dallas but
only typewritten transcripts supplied by CIA, the tapes not
being available because they had been erased."

5. FBI Memorandum to U:S. Senate Select Committee, 27
February 1976: “Delivered herewith is material responsive
to that letter pertaining to a voice. recording referred to
on page five of an FBI report to the President of the United
States dated November 23, 1963. As was discussed... on
February 24, 1976, the recording in question was never in
the possession of the FBI and was not listened to by FBI
Agents.*

With respect to Coleman's and Slawson's recollections,
the CIA file contains a number of internal Warren Commission
documents on their trip to Mexico City. In a report on
their visit, they state that in their meeting with Scott,
they were shown original transcripts and translations of
Oswald's telephone conversations. In a subsequent meeting
with Scott and his deputy, arrangements were made for them
to go through all the transcripts to use them as a basis for
xeconstructing Oswald's Mexico City activities concerning
the two embassies. Slawson then spent considerable time
xeviewing and taking notes from the transcripts. None of
these records mentions the existence of tapes of Oswald's
calls or "listening to taped conversations.*

The CIA/HRG review did turn up tapes of Oswald's radio
debate in New Orleans and of a telephone conversation on
26 November between Cuban President Dorticos and Cuban
Ambassador to Mexico Hernandez Armas. Scott discussed the
latter tape with Coleman and Slawson, noting that the
connection between the two speakers was very bad, that the
tape was in CIA Headquarters and, that the Warren Commission
might want to have it re-translated.


13-00000

I hope that this information helps clarify the events
surrounding the tapes. All of the documents quoted are
available in the National Archives.

Yours truly,

lo f. HArec

7 ohn F. Pereira
Chref, Historical Review Group


13-00000

25 May 1994

Memorandum for the Record

SUBJECT: Telephone Call from Anthony Summers re Oswald in
Mexico City

1. Summers, author of Conspiracy, called long-distance
from Ireland. After expressing pleasure in the amount and
historic value of the JFK materials released by the Agency,
he said that the specific reason for his call was a
remaining ambiguity about the tapes of Oswald's calls to the
Soviet Embassy in Mexico City.

2. The Agency, he said, told investigators that the
tapes had been e¢ased. Summers said that he understood
erasure as a normal procedure, with no sinister overtones.
However, when he talked with former Warren Commission
assistant counsels William Coleman and David Slawson, who
visited the Mexico City Station in April 1964, they told him
that they heard the tapes while in the Station and noted
that they were of relatively poor quality. Also, Summers
said that a former Agency employee with whom he spoke (whose
name he said he could furnish, but not over the phone) said
that he had heard the tapes.

3. Considering the 1964 date of the Slawson/Coleman
trip and what Summers stated was the high credibility of the
individuals who said they heard the tapes, Summers asked if
our review had turned up the tapes or any documentation
reflecting anything other than standard erasure procedure
that could explain the apparent conflict between the timing
of the Headquarters instruction to the field after the
assassination not to destroy any file material, the date of
the Slawson/Coleman visit and thesbsence of the tapes from
the file.

4. I said that, to my knowledge, no one here had found
the tapes nor had they encountered anything that would
affect the conclusion that the tapes had been routinely
erased. I said that no one reviewer here saw every document
in the many archival boxes, but that had someone found
anything to conflict with the previous testimony, it would
have surfaced. °

5. I got the impression that, in addition to continuing

to review the material as it is released to NARA, Summers
may seek a formal response to the question he asked me.



13-00000

. "PHONE! STILL POINT,
* 383:dreland) - 24(Youghal) - 96210 ANTHONY SUMMERS DROMORE,
FAX: AGLISH,
353 (ireland) - 24 (Youghal) - 96467 CAPPOQUIN,
- CO. WATERFORD,
IRELAND.

Mr. John F.Pereira,

Chief, 'istorical Review Group,
Center for Study of Intelligence,
Central Intelligence Agency,

Washington D.C. 20505 CIA SPECIAL COLLECTIONS
RELEASE IN FULL
6 July 1994 ae

Dear Mr. Periera,

Thanks for your letter of June 28, regarding the Kennedy

assassination case, and the matter of tape recordings. I was

aware of virtually all the points you raise, since I recently
took the trouble to visit Washington to peruse all available

released material on the subject.

It does not, however, resolve the problem. While one might
accept that human memory might fail in the case of one person,
or even of two, it is surely astonishing that two former Warren
Commission counsel say firmly for the record that in April

1964 they listened to tapes of Oswald contacts with one or

more of the Communist missions, courtesy of the local CIA
station chief, and that - in addition - a former senior station
officer confirms that such tapes were played for thea
precisely as they describe. hat should the serious scholar

of the case conclude, that all three of these gentlemen have
hopeless memories or are offering false information? Or could
it be that the written record is wrong? Can we be certain

that the CIA was not holding such tapes in 1°64, and has not
destroyed such tapes since? And can we be certain the CIA

no longer has such tapes in its possession? I look forward

with interest to your reply.

Sincerely,

Ve So |


oe ae HONS 24 February 1995
SE IN FULL
To: CARE 9999

Subject: Morley's request

The 10 October 1963 cable (Dir 74830) is a response to the
Station's 9 October 1963 cable (Mexi 6453) which describes
Oswald's contact with the Consul at the Soviet Embassy.

The information on Oswald in the 10 October cable (para. 1 -
3) deals with Oswald citizenship and current status and is
based on State reporting. The cable is not a complete
report on Oswald based on all information available.

The comment in Para. 3 re “latest HDQS information” appears
to relate to citizenship issue, i.e., as of May 1962 State
had confirmed Oswald's US citizenship. The statement is
written in “cablese” and poorly worded, however, I don't
believe it was meant to imply that there was no other

information available on Oswald.
wranmesi(ned En

Karamessines signed as “releasing officer” and,J.C. King was OS
the" authentication officer’! The cable would have been

drafted by another officer, probably someone responding to a
request on Oswald citizenship status.

Background (FYT Only) :

The “Pre-Assassination” 201 file as released to NARA had at
least one FBI document dated after May 1962 (DBA 20883 dated
30 August 1962/ received in the Agency 19 September 1962).
There is also a 10 September 1963 FBI document that was
received by the Agency on 19 September 1963. Given the
handling of FBI documents (indexing and microfilming prior
to dissemination), I doubt that this document had reached
the 201 file by 10 October 1963.

There are no May 1962 documents/reports in the Pre-
Assassination 201 File. Since Oswald left the USSR on 4
June 1962, there are numerous State documents dated May 1962
in the “JFK collection”, however, no way to determined when
there were received by the Agency.

The May 1962 “State report” may refer to a phone call to
State or documents that were available but not in the 201
file.



13-00000

The cable referred to in your letter appears to focus
only on the status of Oswald's citizenship. As such, it
draws on information available from the State Department
that bears on the question of citizenship. The cable is not
regarded. as an attempt to summarize all the information in
CIA files on Oswald at the time.


13-00000

J). .BEB-23-"95 THU 13:35 1D:uASH PCST ~ OUT LOOK TEL NO:2@2-334-Se68 N32 Pe2

ow

22 February 1995
to: David Christian, Central Intelligence Agency
from: Jefferson Morley, Washington Post

In the next few days, The Washington Post plans to publish a news article

-about recently-declassified records from the CIA’s Directorate of Plans

concerning accused presidentia! assassin Lee Harvey Oswald. We would
like to give you, or a designated Agency spokeaman, the oppostunity to
comment on these records,

Routing slips on these documents show that in August 1962, Septem-
ber 1963 and October 1963, numerous offices in the Directorate of Plans
received FBI reparts on Oswald's personal, political and work activities.

Another recently-released document shows that on October 10, 1963
deputy director of plans Thomas Karamessines sent 2 cable to the Mexico
City station stating that Headquarters’ “latest HQ info” on Oswald was 8
State Department report dated May 1962.

Our question: -

Does the Agency know why Mr. Karamessines told the Mexico City sta-
tion on October 10, 1963 that the CIA had no information on Oswald since
May 1962 when the Agency's records show that it ‘had received three FBI
reports on Oswald between May 1962 and October 1963?

Our deadlino is Friday, Feb. 24 at 5 pn.

I re at 202/334-6053 (fax 202/334-5660). Thank you for
your, sida.

Jeff Mo!
. Wasting piten|

—a


Meanie AI-DOV.18. 97 1e:WerM PUBLIC HERHIRS © QUTLOUK 202 350 pope

oa)

She Washington Post
1150 15th St, N.W.
: ‘Washington, D.C. 20071-5530

7 November 1997

: To: George Tenet, Director of Central Intelligence ‘
From: Jefferson Morley, Washington Post

: write to request a briefing about the status of certain CIA records
ee eee a ee
Agency employee known as “Howard” who served as the case officer for a

, anti-Castro organization called the Revolutionary Student Directorate,
from December 5, 1962 to mid-April 1964, |
known by the cryptonym AMSPELL.

‘ On November 22, 1963, “Howard” knew or should have known
about the pro-Castro activities of accused assassin Lee Harvey Oswald in
1963. “Howard” was also in a position to evaluate public allegations of a
Castroite assassination conspiracy made by his agents in the leadership of .
the DRE with whom he had extensive contact. He was obliged to report on.

. the activities of these agents. Yet virtually all records related to “Howard’s”
activities in 1962-64 are missing from the National Archives, Inquiries to the

: JFK Assassination Records Review Board about these records have been
unavailing.

Ee ee eee
: the. Agency's archival depository is required to give “expedited review for
public disclosure of assassination records” in the Agency’s possession.

- Because the CLA has otherwise shown (in the words of the JFK.
Assassination Records Review Board) “a high level of cooperation” and.
“undertaken significant efforts” to satisfy the standards of the JFK Records

Act, the apparent withholding of records by.and about “Howard” isan
" anomaly that éhould be clarified and corrected.


13-00000

ciliate /SE.A2iB7PM PUBLIC. REFBIRS, oum-oox 2a2 334 S660

ry

P.4

Background: On November 13, eo
- Righard Helms with two leaders of the DRE at CIA headquarters, Helms,
according to minutes of the meeting, expressed a “personal interest” in -
developing a “reasonable collaboration” with the DRE. He assigned the
group 3 new case officer whom he said would “be responsible to him =~
ee
officer used the name “Howard” in connection with DRE activities. As of .

i Apa 1963, the DRE was receiving an average of $51,000 pér month from

the Agency’, the most of any single Cuban exile organization.

i * “Howard's” handling of the group casts new light on.an old story: the
‘Warren Commission’s report that in August 1963, anti-Castro.Cubans
regia pte lini Arr td

. time, the ex-Marine wrote in a “political resume” that he was trying to

harass and “infiltrate” the DRE chapter in New Orleans. When Oswald
handed out pamphlets for the pro-Castro Fair Play for Cuba Committee on -

PB

August 9, 1963, the DRE’s New Orleans delegate Carlos Bringuier and other ~

DRE members got into a fight with him. Bringuier notified the group’ 8
national leaders in Miami about the street altercation with Oswald, With the

’ approval of DRE leaders in Miami, he then put Oswald under surveillance,

"" He and a fellow anti-Castro activist also challenged Oswald to a debate on a
" copy to DRE headquarters in Miami, Finally, Bringuier, in '

consultation
. -

" Abthe time, “Goward was meeting regularly with DRE leaders in
Mismi and assisting their: activities. One former leader of the

" . DRE says that he is certain that “Howard” was informed of the group’s

Focus Nomen canes
. JFK Collection, National Archives.

contacts with Oswald at the time; another says that “Howard” was
“probably” informed. These statements ate in potential conflict with the
”s longstanding position that none of its

’ Agency's employees were
Imowledgeable of Oswald’s activities in New Orleans in August 1963..

_ Sot Memoczadini for the Resosd, “Mt. Helms’ convetsation with Luis Fernandez Rocha
tr Organizations Relaionstip withthe Agency.” 1 Rovenber 19,

+ gen “Pinancal Payments Made by th Canin Ibligeace Agency

ee ‘Keanedy

te Cita Ogio memo :
Libary.


13-00000

bei 42.’97 .12:@8PM PUBLIC AEFAIRS OUTLOOK 202 334, 5658 r.>

In iy case; thee is o doubt hat "Howard" was working with the
DRE in the sooon half of 1963 to combat pro-Casto force inthe United
States. In September 1963, “Howard” advanced four DRE leaders $660 to
travel to-New York City and disrupt a conference of pro-Castro students, an

7 svpeeun iltion of bn om CHA star o= US soil.

While ered the DRE
Leadari were toring ap nit oc o obtain respons end mcnoy for an

" imminent military effort to liberate Cuba. In October 1963, DRE leader Juan
- Mannal Salvat traveled, in violation of an administrative order confining him .

to Miami, to Dallas. There, FBI documents show that Salvat assigned two
DRE members to negotiate for the purchase of weapons from a Dallas gun
dealer, John Thomas Masen. According to a March 1964 FBI canvas of:

. Dallas area gun dealers; Masen was one of two who sold the type of
“Mannlicher-Carcan Kennedy.

0 bullets that struck President

‘After President Kennedy was killed, a DRE Jeader sent “Howard” a
.copy of a recording of the August 1963 radio debate with Oswald. The
group published a special issue of “Trinchera,” its ClA-funded publication,

Briniguier’s contacts with Oswald and alleging that the accused

“assassin had acted at the behest of Fidel Castro. The group also launched a

ee

‘ isa mid cee atone

“Howard's” reaction to the DRE’s use of CIA fonding to promote its .
JFK assassination conspiracy theory is unknown. It is known that “Howard” '
did riot immediately inform his CIA colleagues investigating Oswald that his
agents ‘in the DRE had previously exposed the accused assassinas&

pro-Castro movement was not at all surface[d] to us in the first weeks of the
investigation,” said “Jolin Scelgo,” eee aon oe

‘Agency's inquiry into Oswald?

The Ago, in compliance with ie JK Racor Ad hs aay

. disclosed most aspects of its relationship with the DRE, including the real
: names of tero case officers who handled the group (David Phillips and Ross

i ° Se epdtion of “Toh st" Howe Sele Commie 0 Asana, 16 ay 1978, 166.


» Li-Wov 18 "97 12:28PM PUBLIC AEFAIRS OUTLOOK 202 334 5660—C«y “P.6

Crozier). The Agency has released the redacted 201 file of principal -
AMSPELL agent, Juan Manual Salvat Roque (201-286051). It has also
released monthly “Operational Progress” reports on AMSPELL/DRE’s
activities in September and October 1962—the months right before
“Howard” became the Agency’s contact with the group-and on
AMSPELL/DRE activities in May, June, July, August, September and
October 1964—the months right after “Howard” was relieved of the DRE
assignment,
: TThe anomaly in the CUA records is this: f“Howard" reported on the
-ataghahacher¢ ao clipsboot alerpasetchpaeny prom ‘
have generated 17 monthly opérational pro, reportson AMSPELL/DRE -
activities between December 1962 and April 19 1964." Yet the National ~~
_ Archives has no such AMSPELL/DRE reports in that period: Nor have such
| reports been made available to the Review Board. Yet it is precisely these
; reports that are most likely to contain information relevant to the Kennedy
assassination story. Specifically, “Howard’s” reports on AMSPELL/DRE
activities in August and November 1963, ha Eger piensa a
legal definition of “assassination-related records” and thus :
presumption of “immediate disclose” according w sane. :

fen _ Among the questions I would like to disous with knowledgeable
i representatives of the Agency sre:

1) Did “Howard” report appropriately through the SMWAVE station fan
. in Miami about his activities on bebalf of the CLA concerning the
DRE in the period 1962 to 1964? :

2) If so, was “Howard’s” vpepcing ou the DEE suade svaisble so
“John Scelso” ee
642.

a)) ee
lem A mea ed dence .
Ceara

4) Does “Howard's” reporting on DRE seve in August and
November 1963 exist today?


13-00000
* ewer abr 8, oe PRU WASHPUS? OUTLOOK 2a2 334 Besa . ieee ple)

ae

5 is, en wlth gay ma tne crs leo
: - Review Board as mandated by law?

2 ion recor longer ei twa he a nde eason
their disposition? i
"7 Das ince nyc te pi of Hoa”
. ‘real pame? i

_ {ut ht mowing remains ofthe Agency wl be ale
"to cargy thas issues for ters ofthe Washangton Post, :

. Thank you for your time and attention to this matter. -



13-00000
e 14.1997 6:18PM CIA PUBLIC AFFAIRS STAFF NO.1818 PI

PUBLIC AFFAIRS STAFF

TO: oe | “Barry H.

TEL: inisiees oe
vax: _( lB - 3063?

FROM:

Phone: 703 482-7677
Fax: 703 482-6790

NUMBER OF PAGES: (w/Cover Sheet)
REMARKS:

_ Sohw / Barry,
tlere's a copy oF aur heads up Mare COnceRn ing the “Pat
request forah JFK hac karounder, We said mo basecon she,
Sact that + Review (S ongoing, Ge Provicle mo ackti lions

Reasons of backqround info, Marley was vod ae aad will
“Appeat" oulclecrsios, blepe wplured Your, brieling fa RQ vobi Ton


13-00000

+ NOV. 14.1997 6:19PM CIA PUBLIC AFFAIRS STAFF NO. 1818 =P 2

14 November 1997

Mote for: DCI

From: Bill Harlow
Director of Public Affairs

Re: Possible Washington Post “Outlook” siece on
“Anomalias” in the CIA’s JFK Assassination Document
Review

Jefferson Morley of che Washington Post is planning to write
a story for the “Outloox” section on the government-wide JFK
assassination documenc veviaw. Morley requested a background
briefing with members of the CIA/CSI review panel to discuss what
he believes are “anomalies” in our disclosures to date.
Specifically, Morley claims that CIA records relating to the
Agency's relationship with an anti-Cascro group called the
Revolutionary Student Directorate (DRE) are missing from the
National Archives. In addition, Morley claims that previously
released JFK documents which reference a CIA case officer named
“Howard,” who Morley claims was the Agency’s contact with the
DRE, are also missing or incomplete.

After consulcing with John Pereira, Chief, CSI/Historical
Review Group, and Barry Harrelson, Chief, JFK Assassination
Review, PAS informed Morley that it would not be appropriate to
conduct a background briefing on the subject at this time because
the Agency’s JFK assassination document review is still ongoing.
We emphasized to Morley that the CIA maintains. an excellent
working relationship wich the Presidential review board and has
been responsive to all inquires and concerns the board has
raised.

Background: At the request of the Presidential JFK
Assassination Records Review Board, CSI is currently conducting a
thorough re-review of all DRE related document to ascertain if
“Howard* existed and to determine if documents are missing. To
date no records containing the name “Howard” have been identified
and CSI has not determined if there are any missing DRE
documents. CSI believes the Agency‘s relationship with the
Presidential board could be jeopardized, or damaged, if Morley
were to receive a CIA briefing on the very questions the board
has instructed CSI to investigate.

Attached is a copy of Mo
briefing.

"gs request for the background

Dissem: DDCI, DCI/CoS, DCI/EA, Counsel/DCI, SXDIR, D/EXDIR, DDO,
ODA, D/OCA, GC, D/CsT


13-00000

JAN, 0, 1990 4 4-490

pLIA FUBLIL APPAIKD DIAM! 299 334 S668 fw, cUB4 kp

aye toast Host

1160 156 STREET, MW

To: George Tenet, Director Central Intelligence
From: Jefferson Morley :

Shortly after the assassination of President Kennedy on Nov. 22,
1963, a CIA case officer leamed that his agents in a Miami-based anti-
Castro organization had been in contact with Lee Harvey Oswald, then in
custody as a suspect in the President’s murder.

I would like to request an unclassified briefing on the activities and
professional performance of this officer.

This officer was, according to former colleagues, a senior intelligence
officer. He was the C1A’s contact with the Revolutionary Student
Directorate (DRE) from December 1962 until April 1964. He used the name

- “Howard” in his dealings with the Cuban students, The DRE is identified in
CIA files by the cryptonym AMSPELL; the principic agent in the
AMSPELL operation was Juan Manual Salvat. The Washington Post has
learned that the AMSPELL propaganda operation, funded by the CLA, had a

" decisive effect on media coverage of the Kennedy assassination.

Among the questions, I seek to clarify are:
Did “Howard” report on the activities of the DRE/AMSPELL in “
August and November of 19637

~Did “Howard” report on contacts between the DRE and Oswald in a
timely fashion after the assassination?

* —When will copies of “Howard’s” fate on DRE/AMSPELL be
made available to the JFK Records Review Board?


13-00000
JAN bo 1ygd1 424m UIA PUBLIC AFFAIRS STAFF 29 33a sese Nu. 2UH4 Sp gg

I do not seek access to any classified information or documents. I seek
the informed perspective of Agency employees familiar with Cuba
operations in 1963 and Agency records already made public by od CIA
related to DRE/AMSPELL and “Howard.”

The spirit of full disclosure, embodied in the JFK Assassination
Records 5 Act, gives the CIA the opportunity to dispel misconceptions about

ee ae s death. I hope that.
you will act in the spirit of that law and authorize knowledgeable persons at
the CIA to clarify the story of the CLA propaganda operation known as
AMSPELL for readers of the Washington Post.



13-00000

“TBS 28 AP OPT PUBLIC OFFamRs OUTLook 202 330 sesu, pa
o “Ul 1180 15th St, NW, :

ee ” ‘Washington, D.C. 20071-5530
: ~ deareon Mery : : “Ontlook Section ag

: 6 January 1998" ee

- To: TomCrispell:- °° : aes : .

: ‘Re; request for unclassiged briefing ; :

: Dear Tom, 4 :

"This ist follow up on my ext Dinetr Tat of 7 ay 1998.:

‘TL would Hike to know if the Agency will he responsive to my request. wie Agay
. Will not be able to provide an unclassified briefing on the DRE/AMSPELL documents
rgb ade peel vay wig wih ec Tag
ean oe es ee ee :

‘Tharks for your attention to this matter.
Jefferson Morley :
Outlook Section



20 January 1998

Memorandum For: T. Jeremy Gunn
ee Executive Director.
Ass&$Bination Records Review Board

. From: Jd. Barry Harrelson

Senior Reviewer -
JFK: Project .

Subject: CIA-IR-21, Monthly Operational Reports
For the DRE

: ‘1. Reference is made to your request for subject
-information as further. refined in your 18 December 1997
letter to Chief, Historical Review Group. Specifically, you
asked about missing DRE monthly operational reports and the
identity of “Howard,” the name to which the DRE appears to
have sent correspondence.

‘| 2. The Agency has searched appropriate data bases and
files for the “missing” reports. In addition, the
xvesponsible offices have’ researched the questions contained
within your request. Based on these rather extensive
efforts, we can advise you as follows.

3. Missing operational monthly reports. The searches
conducted by the. Agency failed to locate any of the reporcs
that appear to be “missing” -~ December 1962 through April
1964, in general, and those for August and November 1963 in
particular. It should be noted that during the period in
question, major pqlicy differences between the Agency and
DRE developed. This was particularly true of the latter
years of association because the DRE would not take
directions or instructions about a number of operational
matters, insisting, on engaging in activities the Agency did
not sanction. These differences caused the Agency ‘to reduce
the level of funding forgthe DRE. It also replaced the
‘officer designated to deal with the DRE. Then, about the
same time, the monthly operational reports trailed off. It
seems probable these events are linked and that reporting in
the form of such monthly reports simply stopped. The DRE
files we did find are also within the sequestered JFK
collection and they have previously been made available to
ARRB staff member Manuel Legaspi.

4. he identicy of “Howard.” With reference to your
request for information on “Howard,” we, like you, have no
clear understanding abouc the use of this particular name on


13-00000

tes 618 S219 io.

Poet eA ee CUNee

DRE messages. The phrase, “To Howard’ was used as the
addressee of several DRE prepared memoranda. We first
attempted to identify if, in fact, “foward” was an actual
person. The name was not found to be a pseudonym. It also
was not found to be a registered alias. It also is not the
true name of any case officer associated with the DRE
operation at the time the DRE documents were written.
‘Pollowing review of those data bases. knowledgeable case
officers were queried suggested that the use of “To Howard~
might have been nothing more than a-routing indicator to
ensure that the documents got to the correct CIA
office/officer or that the sender was someone known to the
xecipient.

S. I£ you have any further questions in this regard,
please advise.


13-00000

FOR-OFHEIAL USE ONLY
18 January 1998

MEMORANDUM FOR: John Pereira @ DCI (a Petree i

Fred Wickham @ 00 aaa eae
FROM: J. Barry Harrelson

JFK Project Officer
OFFICE: : IMO/HRP

* SUBJECT: FYI - Jeff Morley’s Requests re DRE

REFERENCE: Morley's letters (2) to DCI

Last week Tom Crispell, Public Affairs, call me about a second letter to the DCI from Jeff Morley, Washington Post, re the
ORE (Revolutionary Student Directorate), an anti-Castro organization that figures in the JFK assassination story. Again Morley ask for
an unclassified briefing on the documents that have been made public, and clarification of the AMSPELL (DRE) operation and its “case
officer" Howard.

1 told Tom that HRG continued to recommend against a briefing andor doing research for Morley. However, we are in the
process of preparing a response to the ARRB on the DRE that will answer some of Morley's questions. Tom and | discussed the
possibility of providing Morley a copy of our response to the JFK Board {ARRB) or referring him to the board. | told Tom I would have to
discuss with C/HRG, the DO and board staff.

‘The DO (Bill McNair and Fred Wickham) are opposed to giving Morley any information. The ARRB Ex Dir. has no objection to
‘the Agency providing Morley the same information we are giving the ARRB, however, they would not provide Morley a copy of our
response. The ARRB considers this an open request and does not want to give incomplete information. If Morley is referred to the
ARRB, he will be told that their records would be open to the public when the project is completed: Gunn did request that we make the
DRE files in the sequestered collection a priority in the re-review and ask if we could re-review those documents mentioned in Morley's
tequests as soon as possible.

I passed the DO and ARRB responses to Tom. On Friday { 16 Jan) Tom received a short note from Morley asking if the Agency
was going to respond to his request; his deadline for the story is next week and needs to include the Agency's response. After further
discussion, Tom said he would talk with Mansfield and recommend that Morley be given the same response as before: no briefing or
written response to specific questions; additional information on the ORE will be made public through the ARRB and NARA as part of the
review of JFK records.

For your information, the DO can find no record of a case office named “Howard”. It appears that “Howard” may have been a

routing indicator.

ce: Ed Cohen @ DA
Sent on 18 January 1998 at 09:50:46 AM


13-00000

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY

From the Desk of J. Barry Harrelson

NOTE FOR: Thomas G. Crispell
FROM: J. Barry Harrelson
‘OFFICE: ‘OIM/HRP

DATE: 01/28/98 04:06:28 PM
SUBJECT: Jeff Morley Request

1. In response to Jeff Morley's request re “Howard” and the DRE in his recent letter to the DC1, OIM/ HRP proposes the

following oral response:

With reference to your request for information on “Howard”, we have attempted to identit

ify who he was and if, in fact, he was

an actual person. The phrase, "To Howard” was used as the addressee of several DRE prepared memoranda. A comprehensive search of

appropriate files was made. The name was not found to be a pseudonym or a registered alias. It al

liso is not the true name of any case

officer associated with the DRE operation at the time the DRE documents were written. Knowledgeable officers have suggested that the
use of "To Howard” might have been a routing indicator to ensure that the documents got to the correct CIA office/officer.

2. The above response has been coordinated with Lee Strickland and the DO/IRO's office|
questions, please call me 0n:31825:

Barry

cc: John F. Pereira
Lee S. Strickland @ DA
00
Sent on 28 January 1998 at 04:06:28 PM

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY

} If you have any


13-00000

Nocden. quolnin. '

ab aphetens

Ia- oly al toe Din? 7 fy’

(by - Whur med
Coen ten
em) ADT yy a

[b saphiod) ; ee

Wer Yunm ag Ne aasaen x

Qa ‘iki?! DMhow A

x


13-00000

C

MLL 1999 9:24PM GIA PUBLIL ANKALKD DIANE NO 4203-9

MEMORANDUM
March 3, 1998
To: Jeremy Gunn
Executive Director
cc: Bob Skwirot
CIA Team Leader
From: Michelle Combs

Special Assistant for Research and Review
Subject. CIA-IR-21 DRE Case Officer for December 1962 - April 1964

* In response to ARRB‘s informal request for additional information and records, _

CIA-IR-21, CIA provided access to the Office of Personnel file for Mr. George E.
Joanriides, I have examined the personnel file for Mr. Joannides for the period 1961-64
and 1978-79. Mr. Joannides appears in documents in the CLA Sequestered Collection
under his pseudonym Walter D. Newby. :

During the period December 1962 to April 1964, Mr. Joannides was assigned as a covert .
action officer at JMWAVE, serving as deputy and then chief of the station’s covert

action branch. During this time perlod, Mr. Joannides was the case officer for the

“Cuban exile group Directorio Revolucionario Estudiantil (DRE). The descriptions of his
duties and accomplishments in the personnel file are very general and’containno’’.-- -.
specific reference to his relationship with the DRE. There is no mention of the
assassination of President John F. Kennedy in the file and no information relevant to the
assassination in the file. There is also no indication that Mr. Joannides may have used

or been known by the name “Howard” during his contacts with the DRE, although
personnel files typically would not reveal this information one way or another.

During the period mid-May 1978-January 1979, Mr. Joannides was assigned to work for

. Scott Breckinridge, the CIA’s principal coordinator to the House Select Committee on

Assassination (HSCA) as a focal person to keep track of the status of HSCA requests,
‘particularly to the Directorate of Operations. In this role, Mr. Joannides developed and
maintained a log and records of HSCA requests and CIA responses and-handled the
day-to-day follow up to HSCA requests.

‘Several performance evaluation réports from the 1962-64 time period and a memoranda
from Scott Breckinridge on Mr. Joannides’ duties during the 1978-1979 time frame were
desigriated assassination records and are being processed for release.

e:\combs\cia-ir21.wpd
File 4.20.1 and 4.20.4



13-00000

. for the inconvienance, but | tried. Thanks -/Rust

ADMINISTRATIVE-INTERNALUSE-ONLY

NOTEFOR: James R. Oliver@DA

FROM: ——
OFFICE: OIM/RG
DATE: 09/29/98 03:46:26 PM

SUBJECT: Public Affairs/JFK

Per our conversation yesterday, | talked to Lee regarding about not providing a number to Public Affairs
with respect to the ABC inquiry regarding the cost for declassifying JFK. He still wants to give the 35 FTE
statement. Unfortunately, this has made its way to Ed who disagrees with both solutions. Ed has
requested that we provide an overall FTE figure for the entire processing (6 years.) | tried my best to
make this a simple project, but unfortunately was not successful. | now need your assistance (or Barry) to
provide the FTE estimate. The Public Affairs Point of Contact is| or.37758) | apologize

ce:
Sent on 29 September 1998 at 03:46:26 PM

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY


13-00000
hioTe, | tere) ober ete

TAL COLLECTIONS" DRAFT

FULL
TMS Puc
— paoeley doc
MEMORANDUM FOR:
FROM: J. Barry Harrelson
Senior Reviewer, HRP/OIM
SUBJECT: Material For Response to 11 Dec 98 Ltr From Morley

The following information may be helpful in drafting a response to subject letter from Washington Post
reporter, Jefferson Morely.

2, Basic Facts:
(S) a. On 5 December 1962, Walter D. NEWBY, George Joannides, was introduced toa DRE
leader as the new responsible case officer for the AMSPELL project, replacing Harold R.
NOEMAYR. Dispatch UFGA-6891, 10 Dec 62

(S) b. In “the middle of April” 1964, NEWBY was replaced by Keith T. BONGRINO (P),
as the case officer on project AMSPELL. Dispatch UFGA 16,168, 8 June 64

(U) c. Thus, NEWBY’S responsibility for the DRE/AMSPELL project was for the approximate
period - 5 December 1962 - mid-April 1964.

(U) 4. The DRE Monthly Operational Reports that can be found end with the one for November
1962 (the month preceding NEWBY assuming responsibility for the project) and commence
again with one for May 1964 (the month after NEWBY left the project).

(U) e. NEWBY’S fitness reports for the periods in question state that his tasks, among other
things, were:

- Case officer for student project involving political action, propaganda, intelligence
collection and hemisphere-wide apparatus. 1 Jan 62 - 31 Dec 62Fitness Report, dtd
19 Jan 63.

- Case officer for student project involving political action, propaganda, intelligence
collection and a hemisphere-wide apparatus. 1 Jan 63-31 Jul 63 Fitness Report, dtd
31 Jul 63.

- Serves as senior case officer for a student project which involves distribution of

printed propaganda, production of radio programs, and the development of political
action programs. I Apr 63 - 31 March 64 Fitness Report, did 15 May 64.

(U) f. In all three Fitness Reports, he received a “Strong” for his efforts on the above described
DRE/AMSPELL Project.


(S) g. Via WAVE-1064, dtd 7 November 1962 —the month of the last Operational Report before the
gap and just a few weeks before NEWBY took over as the case officer, JMWAVE had
recommended for a number of reasons that the AMSPELL project be terminated.

(S) h. The 10 December 1962 Dispatch UFGA-6891 (the last Operational Report before the gap
commenced) is illustrative of the confusion surrounding the project both from the way the
“Subject” of the dispatch is styled and the comments within the dispatch. For example:

The “subject box has two lines. On line one it states, “Operational /GYROSE/KUWOLF/
AMSPELL.” On the second line it states, “AMSPELL Status” which is a clear reference to
the problems and uncertainties with the project which are then set out within the report.

The report first notes the station’s November recommendation to terminate AMSPELL but
then advises while it would continue to fund salaries and operational expenses, no new
AMSPELL activities would be undertaken pending HQ’s response to the proposal to
terminate.

Further, within the body of the report was the statement that “AMSPELL membership was
being instructed to go out and seek other employment as a part of a plan for a ‘transition’ in
the event of a rupture in relations with KUBARK.” It is not clear if this instruction was
being made by Station officers or by AMSPELL leadership.

4. Morley’s Allegations: Turning to subject letter, Morley is more than a little disingenuous when he
claims HRP responded to the ARRB “with inaccurate information: to wit, that no ‘actual person’
was handling contacts with the DRE in 1963.” He alleges in the next paragraph, “(t)hese
statements are now shown to be false and misleading...” HRP’s 20 January 1998 memorandum to
the ARRB plainly does not say what Morley alleges. We know who the case officer was before and
after NEWBY and that NEWBY was the case officer in 1963. The Harrelson memorandum simply
says that because of policy differences between the Agency and the DRE during the period in
question, the Agency reduced its level of funding and also replaced the officer designated to deal
with the DRE. The memorandum does not say the Agency withdrew the officer or suggest the
absence of a case officer responsible for the project.

5. With respect to Morley’s claim that a representative of “CIA’s public information office” told
him “no ‘actual person’ was handling contacts with the DRE in 1963,...” HRP’s record of that
proposed conversation reflects a different story. The HRP record states that the Agency Public
Affairs officer would recommend: a) that no briefing or written response to specific questions be
given to Morely; and, b) that he be told additional information on the DRE would be made public
through the ARRB and NARA as part of the review of JFK records..

6. Further, the Agency did not “fail to accurately disclose the activities of one of its case officers in
1963” to the ARRB as Morely claims. Indeed, Michelle Combs’ 3 March 1998 memorandum
clearly demonstrates: a)she had access to Joannides’ personnel file; b) she was clearly aware he
was NEWBY; and, c) she knew that he was the case officer for the DRE from December 1962 to
April 1964. She knew these things because the Agency provided her full access to his personnel
file and all other relevant materials. Her statement that “(t)he descriptions of his duties and in the
personnel file are very general and contain no specific refrence to his relationship with the DRE,” is
technically correct. The DRE is not mentioned by name within the file. However, the three quoted
duties or tasks set-out above from the three Fitness Reports adequately demonstrate that the project
for which he was a case officer was the DRE.

7. Where there ever DRE Operational Reports for the months December 1962 through April 1964.
The answer to that question has not been found so far as HRP knows. All evidence and comment


received from the DO during our search on behalf of the ARRB suggests that the reports never
existed. The coincidences of dates between NEWBY’S arrival and departure strongly suggest the
confusion about the go/no-go status of the DRE with Agency sponsorship precipitated some
decision to suspend the reports. Whether that decision was made by NEWBY or senior JMWAVE

personnel is not known.

We have already answered the question about “Howard.” Morely states “there is abundant
evidence in CIA and DRE records that Joannides, using the pseudonym “Howard,”...etc. HRP’s
20 January 1998 memorandum advised the Executive Director of the ARRB that we did not know
who “Howard” was or if, in act, there was a person using the name “Howard.” Further, according
to the DO, the name was not found to be a pseudonym or the true name of an officer the DRE
operation at the time the DRE documents were written.

J. Barry Harrelson
Senior Reviewer, JFK Project


13-00000

DRAFT LETTER TO MORLEY

[CIA LETTERHEAD]

Mr. Jefferson Morley
Staff Writer

The Washington Post
1150 15 Street, NW.
Washington, D.C. 20071

Dear Mr. Morely:

This is in response to your letter of 3 December concerning the DRE, the DRE case officer and the
identity of “Howard.”

It appears that there is some confusion about what the Agency has said and not said about the above
subjects. I hope the following facts will clarify matters for you.

First, the Agency has never said there was no case officer for the DRE during 1963. We know the
identify of the case officer before NEWBY/Joannides; we know the case officer following Joannides; and,
we know that Joannides was the DRE case officer for the period 5 December 1962 to mid April 1964. The
20 January 1998 memorandum to the ARRB simply says that differences between the Agency and the
DRE caused the Agency to replace “the officer designated to deal with the DRE.”

Second, the gap in DRE/AMSPELL operational reports for the months December 1962 through April
1963 (the so-called “missing reports”) coincides almost exactly with NEWBY ’S/Joannides’ tenure as the
DRE case officer. We do not know if the reports ever existed. We do know that the differences
mentioned above caused JMWAVE to propose to Headquarters in November 1962 that the project be
terminated. This was the month before NEWBY/Joannides assumed responsibility for the DRE and the
last month an Operational Report was written before the gap. We like you can only speculate about why
no reports exist - whether NEWBY/Joannides decided on his own they were no longer necessary, whether
he was told by a superior to stop them, or whether they were in fact written and cannot be found. We do
not know.

Third, I turn to the identity/existence of “Howard.” As you note, “To Howard” was used by the DRE
as the apparent addressee on certain correspondence. We refer to our 20 January 1998 letter. “Howard”
could not be found as a registered pseudonym or alias. We have no evidence to suggest “Howard” was an
identity for Joannides. Lastly, so far as we can determine, “Howard” is not the true name of any officer
associated with the DRE at the time the DRE documents were written.

The Agency has not made false or misleading statements to the ARRB about these matters. In fact,
ARRB staff members thoroughly reviewed all of the materials on the DRE, NEWBY/Joannides, the
“Howard” issue and, the question of the gap in the DRE operational reports.

Sincerely,

XXXXXXXXX


13-00000

JAN 11, 1999

o:derm UIA FUBLIU AMPAIKD DLAI NU42Us oS

3 December 1998

Mr. L. Britt Snider

General Counsel

Central Intelligence Agency
Washington, DC 20505

Dear Mr. Snider. ~ - - Strerransrenremeee fence

By way of introduction, my name is Jefferson Morley. | am a reporter for the
Washington Post. Our mutual friend Scott Armstrong suggested that | write to you for
clarification of certain issues related to CIA compliance with the JFK Assassination
Records Act.

As you know, the mandate of the Act was for “immediate disclosure" of all
documents related to the murder of President Kennedy, The purpose of tha law was to
re-establish the credibility of government institutions in the face of widespread public
doubt and confusion about the.events of November 1963. As you also know, the
number three official at the agency, In compliance with the Act, submitted.a swom
statement that the Agency has made available all assassination-related records for
review by the JFK Assassination Records Review Board (ARRB).

The attached exchange of memoranda ralses questions about the accuracy-of
the CIA's responses to the ARRB on-a potentially important question.

At issue are the seporting and performance of George E. Joannides, a CIA case
officer stationed in Miami-in 1963 with résponsibilities for a once-prominent Cuban exile
group known as the Revolutionary Student Directorate or DRE. The DRE was an anti-
Castro group whose members had a series of encounters with Lee Harvey.Oswald 12 -
weeks before the Kennedy assassination. The DRE leaders were the very first people to
issue public statements after the assassination about Oswald's pro-Castro activities and
political convictions. A senlor official of the Castro government alleged in 1995. that the
DRE was involved in a conspiracy to kill President ‘Kennedy.

The exchange of memoranda demonstrates that when:the. ARRB inquired last
winter.about the identity of the CIA contact for the | DRE, ‘the.

et head

.fesponded with Inaccurate information: to wit; that no “actual person" was handing Cwe said,

—

contacts with the DRE in 1963. When I posed the same question on behalf of the
Washington Post to Tom Crispell of the CIA's public Information office, | was also told M2, y
that the CIA had no records as to the identity of the DRE's case officer. <
These statements are now shown: falseand leading;,In effect, if not Cai shed 2
intent. As Ms. Combs' memo demonstrates, the DRE did have a case officer and that
the fact was recorded in Mr. Joannides’ Office of Personnel file. Both the DRE and Mr.
Joannides were well known at JM/WAVE. The DRE, known by the cryptonym =,
AMI/SPELL, was receiving $51,000 a month from the agency and Mr. Joannides was
reparting to Ted Shackley among others.
The agency's inaccurate statement about Mr. Joannides logically raises
questions about the agency's statement that it cannot locate any written reports
generated by him. Obviously “knowledgeable officers” who did not know of Mr.
Joannides’ relationship with the DRE would not be well positioned to know of his
reporting on that relationship. Former colleagues tell me that Mr. Joannides'
professional duties on the AM/SPELL account would have included preparing contact
reports on his meetings with DRE leaders and filing monthly reports to his superiors.
Since Joannides had a reputation as a competent officer and since there is abundant



evidence in CIA and DRE records that Joannides, using the pseudonym “Howard,”
received written communications from and about the DRE, the most reasonable
assumption (absent further explanation) is that he memorialized his activities in 1962-
1964.

Ifthe CIA can find no such records in its files, the question of the disposition of | We i)
these records arises, If DRE-AM/SPELL files were destroyed according to procedure, veri we

there should be a record of it. If they were not destroyed according to procedure, thelr. pel =
dispositionneeds to be accounted for under the Spirit, If not the letter, of the JFK “gh? +
Records Act, {

My questions are as follows:

1) Why did the CIA make Inaccurate mi last January to the ARRB and ~ We (Hae
the Washington Post about the DRE’s case officer? What are the names of the 4b wit

“knowledgeable officers" who informed J. Barry Harrelson that the man known to the «—
DRE as “Howard” (i.e. George Joannides) was not an “actual person” but merely “a
routing indicator?”

2) What is the CIA's explanation for the complete absence of reporting onthe we CHee)
DRE and Oswald from its extant files on the AM/SPELL operation? After the DRE made hav ne
public statements about Lee Harvey Oswald on November 22, 1963, what were Mr. orp
Joannides' reporting obligations, if any, under the procedures and practices of the
Operations Directorate? Did Mr. Joannides, in the view of the Agency today, fulfill those
obligations in all respects?

3) Will the CIA provide a background briefing to me and a colleague to clarify
these and other questions arising from the documentation of the CIA's relationship with
the DRE in 1962-64 and from Mr. Joannides' role in the Agency's response to the HSCA
Investigation in 1978-797

The apparent fallure of the CIA to accurately disclose the activities of one of Its
case officers in November 1963 to the JFK records review board is noteworthy. Public
confidence in the CIA's sworn statements about Its compliance with the JFK Records
Act depends on verification of those statements. If the Historical Review Office was
misinformed about Mr. Joannides and passed that inaccurate information to the public, it
behooves the agency to correct the error quickly and clarify all questions arising from its
ofiginal misstatements of fact.

Thani i for vere to this matter.

Jet Morley

Staff Writer

Washington Post .
0) 202/334-6863
f) 202/334-6138
Enclosure:

ce: Rick Atkinson
Scott Armstrong


13-00000
Nu4acus of

be avyy veces vin suuuiy arcaing oLaArt

Inspector General

(703) 874-2553

1G 1998-1532
11 December 1998

Mr. Jefferson Morley
Staff writer

The Washington Post
1150 15™ street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20071

Dear Mr. Morley:

This will acknowledge receipt of your letter dated
3 December 1998, which posed several questions regarding the
CIA's handling of information under the JFK Assassination
Records Act.

Inasmuch as this Office does not have the information
you are seeking, I am taking the: liberty of sending a copy .
of your letter to the Office of Public Affairs as well as
the Office of Information Management for response.

Please give my regards to Scott Armstrong when you see

hin.
Sincerely,
*
L- Britt Snider
Distribution:
Orig. - Addressee
1 - OPA
1 - OIM

1 - IG Chrono


13-00000

i JAN 11.1999 5:22PM CIA PUBLIC AFFAIRS STAFF No. 4203 PF. 1
zg

TO: waMa: yrebons

Phona: 703 482-7677
Fax: 703 482-6790

NUMBER OF PAGES: / (w/Cave= Sheet)

love's LQ Morley se
3 (atten Grou oun IGdo hun. | lan


28 January 1999

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

FROM: J. Barry Harrelson :
Senior Reviewer, HRP/OIM

SUBJECT: Material For Response to 11 Dec 98 Ltr From Morley

The following background information addresses the questions and Accusations made by Washington
Post reporter, Jefferson Morley in his letter to of. to Britt Snider. It has been
coordinated with the DO JFK Team and DOAR'

2. Basic Facts:

a. On 5 December 1962, Walter D, NEWBY, George Joannides, was introduced to a DRE leader
as the new responsible case officer for the AMSPELL project, replacing Harold R.
NOEMAYR. Dispatch UFGA-6891, 10-Dec 62

b. In “the middle of April” 1964, NEWBY was replaced by Keith T. BONGRINO (P),
as the case officer on project AMSPELL. Dispatch UFGA 16,168, 8 June 64.

c. Thus, NEWBY’S responsibility for the DRE/AMSPELL project was for the approximate period
- S December 1962 - mid-April 1964.

d. The DRE Monthly Operational Reports that can be found end with the one for November 1962
(the month preceding NEWBY assuming responsibility for the project) and commence again
with one for May 1964 (the month after NEWBY left the project).

e. NEWBY'’S fitness reports for the periods in question state that his tasks, among other things,
were:

- Case officer for student project involving political action, propaganda, intelligence
collection and hemisphere-wide apparatus. 1 Jan 62 - 31 Dec 62Fitness Report, dtd
19 Jan 63.

- Case officer for student project involving political action, propaganda, intelligence
collection and a hemisphere-wide apparatus. 1 Jan 63- 31 Jul 63 Fitness Report, dtd
31 Jul 63.
- Serves as senior case officer for a®student project which involves distribution of
printed propaganda, production of radio programs, and the development of political
action programs. 1 Apr 63 - 31 March 64 Fitness Report, did 15 May 64.

f. In all three Fitness Reports, he received a “Strong” for his efforts on the above described
DRE/AMSPELL Project.


13-00000

Athministrative— fears

g. Via WAVE-1064, dtd 7 November 1962 - the month of the last Operational Report before the gap
and just a few weeks before NEWBY took over as the case officer, IMWAVE had recommended for a
number of reasons that the AMSPELL project be terminated.

h. The 10 December 1962 Dispatch UFGA-6891 (the last Operational Report before the gap
commenced) is illustrative of the confusion surrounding the project both from the way the
“Subject” of the dispatch is styled and the comments within the dispatch. For example:

The “subject box has two lines. On line one it states, “Operational /GYROSE/KUWOLF/
AMSPELL.” On the second line it states, “AMSPELL Status” which is a clear reference to
the problems and uncertainties with the project which are then set out within the report.

The report first notes the station's November recommeddation to terminate AMSPELL but
then advises while it would continue to fund salaries and operational expenses, no new
woul undertake ing HO": to the proposal

terminate.

Further, within the body of the report was the statement that “AMSPELL membership was
being instructed to go out and seek other employment as a part of a plan for a ‘transition’ in
the event of a rupture in relations with KUBARK.” It is not clear if this instruction was
being made by Station officers or by AMSPELL leadership.

4. Morley’s Allegations: Turning to subject letter, Morley is more than a little disingenuous when he
claims HRP responded to the ARRB “with inaccurate information: to wit, that no ‘actual person’
was handling contacts with the DRE in 1963.” He alleges in the next paragraph, “(t)hese
Statements are now shown to be false and misleading..." HRP’s 20 January 1998 memorandum to
the ARRB plainly does not say what Morley alleges. We know who the case officer was before and
after NEWBY and that NEWBY was the case officer in 1963. The Harrelson memorandum simply
says that because of policy differences between the Agency and the DRE during the period in
question, the Agency reduced its level of funding and also replaced the officer designated to deal
with the DRE. The memorandum does not say the Agency withdrew the officer or suggest the
absence of a case officer responsible for the project.

5. With respect to Morley’s claim that a representative of “CIA’s public infotmation office” told
him “no ‘actual person’ was handling contacts with the DRE in 1963,...” HRP’s record of that
proposed conversation reflects a different story. The HRP record states that the Agency Public
Affairs officer would recommend: a) that no briefing or written response to specific questions be
given to Morley; and, b) that he be told additional information on the DRE would be made public
through the ARRB and NARA as part of the review of JFK records.

6. Further, the Agency did not “fail to accurately disclose the activities of one of its case officers in
1963” to the ARRB as Morley claims. Indee@, Michelle Combs’ 3 March 1998 memorandum
clearly demonstrates: a)she had access to Joannides’ personnel file; b) she was clearly aware he
was NEWBY; and, c) she’ knew that he was the case officer for the DRE from December 1962 to
April 1964. She knew these things because the Agency provided her full access to his personnel file
and all other relevant materials. Her statement that ‘(t)he descriptions of his duties in the personnel
file are very general and contain no specific reference to his relationship with the DRE,” is
technically correct. The DRE is not mentioned by name within the file. However, the three quoted
duties or tasks set-out above from the three Fitness Reports adequately demonstrate that the project
for which he was a case officer was the DRE.

7 Were there ever DRE Operational Reports for the months December 1962 through April 1964.

The answer to that question has not been found so far as HRP knows. Alll evidence and comment
received from the DO during our search on behalf of the ARRB suggests that the reports never

‘Administentive—t


inictative «Internal Use-O

existed. The coincidences of dates between NEWBY '’S arrival and departure strongly suggest the
confusion about the go/no-go status of the DRE with Agency sponsorship precipitated some.
decision to suspend the reports. Whether that decision was made by NEWBY or senior JMWAVE

personnel is not known.

We have already answered the question about “Howard.” Morley states “there is abundant
evidence in CIA and DRE records that Joannides, using the pseudonym “Howard,”...etc. HRP’s
20 January 1998 memorandum advised the Executive Director of the ARRB that we did not know
who “Howard” was or if, in fact, there was a person using the name “Howard.” Further, according
to the DO, the name was not found to be a pseudonym or the true name of an officer the DRE
operation at the time the DRE documents were written.

J. Barry Harrelson
Senior Reviewer, JFK Project

eee naures ty


13-00000

Central intelligence Agency

A= saennee
Mr. Jefferson Morley
Staff Writer

The Washington Post
1150 15" Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20071

Dear Mr. Morley:

This responds to your letter of 3 December 1998 to
Mr. Britt Snider concerning certain records released under
the JFK Assassination Records Act and our representations to
the JFK Assassination Records Review Board (ARRB). I
believe that a careful review of the actual documents you
cite (i.e., our 20 January 1998 letter to the ARRB and the
3 March 1998 internal ARRB memorandum) will answer your
concerns. Accordingly, we have addressed your three
principal questions below in this context.

First, you assert that in an exchange with the ARRB
(presumably the 20 January 1998 letter), “.. the Historical
Review office responded with inaccurate information: to wit,
that no ‘actual person’ was handling contacts with the. DRE
in 1963 ..” I believe it is abundantly clear that the
20 January 1998 letter says just the opposite. For example,
paragraph 3 states that “.. [the Agency]... repla¢ed the
officer designated to deal with the DRE. Then, about the
same time, the monthly operational reports trailed off ..”
Moreover, and far from contradicting our 20 January 1998
letter, the 3 March 1998 ARRB memorandum actually confirms
the veracity of the earlier Agency statement.

Second, you assert that “The Agency’s inaccurate
statement about Mr. Joannideselogically raises questions
about the agency’s statement that it cannot locate any
written reports generated by him.” Here, neither the
precondition for the statement, nor the statement itself, is
accurate. Again, our 20 January letter provides the most
logical explanation for the absence of any written reports
on Mr. Joannides (i.e., AM/SPELL) and that is (a) the Agency
reduced funding for the DRE during this period and (b)
monthly reporting on the project “simply stopped” because of
this reduced involvement.


13-00000

And third, you raise the issue of the identity or
existence of “Howard.” As you note, “To Howard,” was used
as an apparent addressee on certain correspondence.
However, as specifically addressed in the 20 January 1998
memorandum, the name “Howard” could not be found in our
listings of registered pseudonyms or aliases and there is no
other evidence to suggest that “Howard” was an identity for
Joannides. Moreover, so far as we can determine, “Howard”
is not the true name of any officer associated with the DRE
at the time the DRE documents were written. In no way did
the 20 January letter say categorically, as you suggest in
your letter, that “.. ‘knowledgeable officers’ .. informed
J. Barry Harrelson that the man known to DRE as ‘Howard’
(i.e., George Joannides) was not an ‘actual person’ but
merely ‘a routing indicator.’” In sum, the one fact that
remains today is that we have insufficient evidence as to
who or what the word “Howard” represented and that is
exactly what the 20 January letter says.

In sum, a careful review of the correspondence cited in
your letter does not support an allegation that the Agency
has made “false or misleading statements to the ARRB about
these matters.” In fact, the records on these issues
establish quite clearly that the Agency was candid and
truthful, that the ARRB staff members had access to and
thoroughly reviewed all relevant information on the issues
you raised, and that the ARRB was satisfied with their
detailed review. =

I trust that this information satisfies your concerns.

Sincerely,

je 2 th

James R. Oliver
Chief, Historical Review Program

cc: Mr. Britt Snider


13-00000

C/HRP/IRG/J. Oliver:blo/31287 (16 Feb 1999)
Irg/fo/general/lss/morely response.doc

Distribution:
Orig - Addressee

BRR Ree

Britt Snider (IG) 2X30 NHB
Tom Crispell PAO) 7C25 OHB
C/HRP

D/OIM

DD/OIM

HRP B. Harrelson


UNCLASSIFIED

ADMINSTRATIVE_INTERNAL_USE_ONLY

From the Desk of James R. Oliver
Historical Review Program

[81805 ?
NOTE FOR: Thomas G. Crispell@DCI
FROM: James R. Oliver
OFFICE: OIM
DATE: 10/26/99 05:09:50 PM

SUBJECT: ALERT: Call from Morley, Washington Post
Tom, This is to confirm our telephone conversation of this afternoon,

We have been advised that Jefferson Morley, a staff writer for the Washington Post, phoned Michelle
Combs (an industrial contractor for OIM's 25 Year Declassification program) this morning, to discuss a
Memo for the Record that Ms. Combs had written when she was a staff officer with the JFK Assassination
Records Review Board. Mr. Morley told Ms. Combs that he was writing an article for the Post (and
possibly for The New Yorker) that involved George Joannides, who was a case officer with JMMWAVE
assigned to work with a Cuban exile group, Revolutionary Student Directorate (DRE) in the 1961-64 time
frame. Ms. Combs responded that she no longer worked for the Board and was currently employed in
private industry. (We do not know if Mr. Morley knows that her contractor is working for the Agency's 25
year program). Mr. Morley offered to send her a draft of the article for her review. She said she would
get back to him after Wednesday afternoon to respond to his proposal and she then reported the phone
call to us. We have indicated to her that she should gracefully decline the offer to critique the article.
She agreed to this.

You will recall that Mr. Morley wrote to Britt Snider last December asking several questions about Mr.
Joannides and the DRE and asserting that CIA was less than responsive to the Board's requests for
information. He cited two memoranda that had been released by the Board:

@ a 20 January 1998 memo from Barry Harrelson to the Board explaining: (a) why there were no DRE
monthly operational reports in the Agency's files and (b) the unexplained references to an addressee,
“Howard," in agency cables; and

@ a3 March 1998 MFR from Ms Combs referencing information on Joannides. Mr. Morley alleged
“inaccurate statements” by CIA to the ARRB and the Post and asked for a briefing on “the CIA's
relationship with the DRE."

Our response, which was coordinated with O/Public Affairs, was provided to Mr. Morley on 18 February
1999 and addressed each of the major "inaccuracies" he alleged (basicly, he had misread the documents).
We did not offer a briefing.

” As of this time we do not know what the theme of Mr. Morley's article(s) will be.

Jim O.

cc: Richard J. Warshaw@ DA
DA
J. Barry Harrelson@DA
Sent on 26 October 1999 at 05:09:50 PM

UNCLASSIFIED


13-00000

[2 hI

be Howls be
O Weg, eed
pi fe!
Oe ee

a

rac

inacleg


13-00000

£2 IN FULL
_ 2000
To: Tom crispel, Mark Mansfield
FROM: Jefferson Morley (202) 334-6863
December 10,1999
At the suggestion of John ‘Pereira, t would
like to have an on-the-record briefing on JFK
assassination-related documents concerning the.
late George Joannides, an Agency employee from
1951 to 1979. Bob Blakey has also expressed an
Anterest in such a briefing. mn

While I have no objection to taking portions
of our conversation off the record, I would hope
to at least get@ifrom this briefing ‘three
attributable statements in response to these
questions.

@ Fabian Escalante, a retixed Cuban
intelligence official, has said that
members of the Revolutionary Student
Directorate (DRE) were involved ina
conspiracy to kill President Kennedy. At
the time of Kennedy's death, this group
received funding from the CIA. Does the
CIA. have any comment on Escalante’ s
allegation? Will the CIA make public all

“records referenced in answering this



question?

a will the Agency immediately account for
and make public its records pertaining to
George pee and his actions with
regard to.the DRE, in 19637 Will it
immediately account for and make public
all records kept by Joannides during his
work with the HSCA in 19782

@ Nora Slatkin, executive director of the
CIA, affirmed in Sept. 1998 under oath
that the Agency had made public all of
its assassination-related records. was
Ms. Slatkin aware of the story of George
Joannides at the time of her affadavit?

I look forward to hearing. from you at yeuedl

earliest convenience.


ADMINSTRAUNGLASSHRIEAL USE-ONLY —
From the Desk of J. Barry Harrelson

NOTE FOR: Thomas G. Crispell@DCI

FROM: J. Barry Harrelson
OFFICE: OIM/HRP
DATE: 12/15/99 05:59:18 PM

SUBJECT: Jeff Morley’s request re Joannides

| talked with John Pereira; he did not suggest the Morley seek a briefing. Pereira will also give
Mark Mansfield a call. My recommendation is that we not give Morley a briefing. | suspect that he will not
be happy with our responses to his questions regardless of how presented. We are pulling the JFK files
on Joannides for reference purposes, however, the question on Joannides and the HSCA will require
some research. | will be out of the office on Thursday p.m. and Friday. If you have questions, please call
Jim Oliver G1 805).

cc: I@DA
James R. Oliver@DA
William H. McNair@DO
Sent on 15 December 1999 at 05:59:18 PM

UNCLASSIFIED


13-00000

2 . * ADMINSTRATNGLASEIRIEAL-USE-ONTY
From the Desk of J. Barry Harrelson

DA

FROM: J. Barry Harrelson
OFFICE: OIM/HRP
DATE: 12/16/99 11:21:29 AM

* SUBJECT: Morley requests

A few points re Morley’s questions - ok to share with Tom Crispell with caveat that I would like to
do some follow-up research before we prepare an official written response:

1. Fabian Excalante - | assume we would not comment on Escalante’s statement as a matter of policy.
As for the DRE, the documents including DO files are available at NARA; most documents released in full
[Frank or Horace can give you specific re type files and number of document - - remember JFK is full of
duplicates documents, so number of hits will be greater than unique documents]. CIA funding is
acknowledged; no records on a "conspiracy to kill Kennedy" were located.

2. George Joannides -

a. all documents pertaining to Joannides and the DRE that were located in the JFK sequestered collection
and in our special searches were released; at the request of the ARRB four of Joannides’ performance
appraisals covering 1962-64 were also released.

b. Joannides served as an assistant to Scott Breckinridge, the Agency’s Principal Coordinator for the
HSCA investigation in 1978. A Memorandum on Joannides performance in that role was released at the
request of the ARRB. | am not aware of any records “kept by Joannides". It is unlikely, given his position,
that he would have kept a separate set of records. The ARRB staff had full access to the HSCA and
Breckinridge material that we located; no additional “Joannides" documents were identified.

[Note: Michelle Combs, formerly with the ARRB now a Raytheon contractor with the 25 year program, is
the expect on Joannides. Morley has contacted her in the past but may not be aware that we now works
on Agency projects}

3. Nora Slatkin: Slatkin was not executive director in September 1998. ! assume Morley is referring to
the ExDir’s declaration of September 1998. The ExDir would not have been personally aware of the
Joannides records, however, he was correct in his statement that the HSCA sequestered collection and
all other documents determined by the ARRB to be assassination-related records were released.

cc: I@DA
Sent on mi at 11:21:29 AM

UNCLASSIFIED


20 January 1998

Memorandum For: T. Jeremy Gunn
ee Executive Director.

Ass@sBination zecords Review Board

. From: dg. Barry Harrelson
Senior Reviewer -
JFK: Project
Subject: CIA-IR-21, Monthly Operational Reports

For the DRE

‘lL. Reference is made to your request for subjecc +
-informacion as further. refined in your 18 December 1997
letter to Chief, Historical Review Group. Specifically, you
asked about missing DRE monthly operational reports and the
identity of “Howard,” the name to which the DRE appears to
have sent correspondence.

2. The Agency has searched appropriate data bases and
files for the “missing” reports. In addition, the.
responsible offices have’ researched the questions contained
within your request. Based on these rather.extensive..__
efforts, we can advise you as follows.

3. Missing operational monthly reports. The searches
conducted by the. Agency failed to locate any of the reporcs
that appear to be “missing* =~ December 1962 through Apri.
1964, in general, and those for August and November 1963 ia
particular. It should be noted that during the period in
question, major pqlficy differences between the Agency and
DRE developed. This was particularly true of the latter
yeaxs of association because the DRE would not take
directions or instructions about a number of operational
matters, insisting, on engaging in activities the Agency did
not sanction. ‘These differences caused the Agency to reduce
the level of funding forgthe DRE. It also replaced the
‘officer designated to deal with the DRE. Then, about the
same time, the monthly operational reports trailed off. It
seems probable these events are linked and that reporting in
the form of such monthly reports simply stopped. The DRE
files we did find are also within the sequestered JFK
collection and they have previously been made available to
ARRB staff member Manuel Legaspi. :

4. The identity of “Howard.” With reference to your
: request for information on “Howard,” we, like you, have no
= clear understanding abouc the use of this particular name on


13-00000

Soa

= wee conse cus 418 E219 : PY

DRE messages. The phrase, “To Howard” was used as the
addressee of several DRE prepared memoranda. We first
attempted to identify if, in fact, “foward” was an actual
person. The name was not found to be a pseudonym. It also
was not found to be a registered alias, It also is not the
true name of any case officer associated with the DRE
operation at the time the DRE documents were written.
‘Following review of those data bases, knowledgeable case
officers were queried suggested thatthe use of “To Howard’
might have been nothing more than a-routing indicator to
ensure that the documents got to the correct CIA
office/officer or that the sender was someone known to the
xecipient.

S. ZI£ you have any further questions in this regard,
Please advise.


March 3, 1998

To: Jeremy Gunn
Executive Director
ce: Bob Skwirot
CIA Team Leader

From: Michelle Combs
Special Assistant for Research and Review

Subject CIA-IR-21 DRE Case Officer for December 1962 - April 1964

* Inresponse to ARRB’s informal request foi additional information and records,

CIA-IR-21, CIA provided access to the Office of Personnel file for Mr. George E. *
Joanriides, I have examined the personnel file for Mr. Joannides for the period 1961-64
and 1978-79. Mr. Joannides appears in documents in the CLA Sequestered Collection
under his pseudonym Walter D. Newby.

During the period December 1962 to April 1964, Mr. Joannides was assigned as a covert
action officer at JMWAVE, serving as deputy and then chief of the station’s covert

action branch. During this time perlod, Mr. Joannides was the case officer for the -----—
‘Cuban exile group Directorio Revolucionario Estudlantil (DRE). The descriptions of his

duties and accomplishmenis in the personnel file are very general and’contain no’
specific reference to his relationship with the DRE. There is no mention of the
assassination of President John F. Kennedy in the file and no information relevant to the
assassination in the file. There is also no indication that Mr. Joannides may have used
or been known by the name “Howard” during his contacts with the DRE; although
personnel files typically would not reveal this information one way or another.

During the period mid-May 1978-January 1979, Mr. Joannides was assigned to work for
Scott Breckinridge, the CIA’s principal coordinator to the House Select Committee on
Assassination (HSCA) as a focal person to keep track of the status of HSCA requests,

‘particularly to the Directorate of Operations. In this role, Mr, Joannides developed and

maintained a log and records of HSCA requests and CIA responses and-handled the
day-to-day follow up to HSCA requests.

‘Several performance evaluation reports from the 1962-64 time period and a memoranda
from Scott Breckinridge on Mr. Joannides’ duties during the 1978-1979 time frame were
designated assassination records and are being processed for release.

e:\combs\cia-it21.wpd
File 4.20.1 and 4.20.4



Lf 4999 JeGcrm Vin ubuiy arraiau vinre ay, toUY

. ; Inspector General

(703) 874-2553

IG 1998-1532
11 December 1998

Mr. Jefferson Morley : :
Staff writer.

The Washington Post :

1150 15% Street, N.W.

Washington, D.C. 20071

Dear Mr. Morley:

This will acknowledge receipt of your letter dated
3 December 1998, which posed several questions regarding the
CIA's handling of information under the JFK Assassination
Records Act.

Inasmuch as this Office does. not have the information
you are seeking, I am taking the’ liberty of sending a copy .

of your letter to the Office.of Public Affaizs:as well- as =~-° ~

the Office of Information Management. for response.

Please give my regards to Scott Armstrong when you see
¢ ‘

him.
Sincerely,
L- Britt Snider
Distribution: .
Orig - Addressee
1 - OPA
1 - OIM

1 - IG Chrono

aA TRIS RA

6



INSPECTOR GENERAL
1S 3

3 December 1998

Mr. L. Britt Snider

General Counsel

Central Intelligence Agency
Washington, DC 20505

Dear Mr. Snider. ~ : sre erererrprceeer toe Gite

By way of introchiction, 1 my name is Jefferson Morley. lat ama reporter for the
Washington Post. Our mutual friend Scott Armstrong suggested that | write to you for
clarification of certain Issues related to CIA compliance with the JFIK Assassination
Records Act. :

As you know, the mandate of the Act was for “immediate disclosure" of all
documents related to the murder of President Kennedy, The purpose of the law was to
re-establish the credibility of government institutions in the face of widespread public
doubt and confusion about the events of November 1963. As you also know, the
number three official at the agency, In compliance with the Act, submitted a swom
statement that the Agency has made available all assassination-related records for
review by the JFK Assassination Records Review Board (ARRB).

The attached exchange of memoranda raises questions about the accuracy. of
the CIA's responses to the ARRB on a potentially important question.

At issue are the reporting and performance of George E. Joannides, a CIA case
officer stationed in Miaml-In 1963 with responsibilities for a once-prominent Cuban exile
group known as the Revolutionary Student Directorate or DRE. The DRE was an anti-
Castro group-whose members had.a series of encounters with Lee Harvey: Oswald: 42- > -
weeks before the Kennedy assassination. The DRE leaders were the very first people:to
issue public statements after the assassination about Oswald's pro-Castro activities and
political convictions. A senlor official of the Castro government alleged in 1995 that the
DRE was involved in a conspiracy to kill President Kennedy.

The exchange of memoranda demonstrates that when the ARRB inquired last
winter about the identity of the CIA contact for the DRE, the Historical Review office
fesponded with inaccurate information: to wit, that no “actual person" was handling
contacts with the ORE in 1963. When I posed the same question on behalf of the
Washington Post to Tom Crispell of the CIA's public Information office, | was also told
that the CIA had no records as to the Identity of the DRE's case officer.

These statements are now shown to be false and misleading, in effect, if not
intent. As Ms. Combs' memo demonstrates, the DRE did have a case officer and that
the fact was recorded in Mr. Joannidés’ Office of Personnel file. Both the DRE and Mr.
Joannides were well known at JM/MWAVE. The DRE, known by the cryptenym =,
AMISPELL, was receiving $51,000 a month from the agency and Mr. Joannides was
reporting to Ted Shackley among others,

The agency's inaccurate statement about Mr. Joannides logically raises
questions about the agency's statement that it cannot locate any written reports
generated by him. Obviously “knowledgeable officers” who did not know of Mr.
Joannides' relationship with the DRE would not be well positioned to know of his
reporting on that relationship. Former colleagues tell me that Mr. Joannides'
professional duties on the AM/SPELL account would have included preparing contact
reports on his meetings with DRE leaders and filing monthly reports to his superlors.
Since Joannides had a reputation as a competent officer and since there is abundant


13-00000

evidence in CIA and DRE records that Joannides, using the pseudonym “Howard,”
received written communications from and about the DRE, the most reasonable
assumption (absent further explanation) is that he memorialized his activities in 1962-
1964.

Ifthe CIA can find no such records in its files, the question of the disposition of
these records arises, If DRE-AM/SPELL files were destroyed according to procedure,
there should be a record of it. If they were not destroyed according t6 procedure, thelr.
dispositiorrneeds to be accounted for under thie Spirit, If riot thé letter, of the JFK
Records Act,

My questions are as follows: . :

1) Why did the CIA make Inaccurate statements last January to the ARRB and
the Washington Post about the DRE's case officer? What are the names of the
“knowledgeable officers" who informed J. Barry Harrefson that the man known to the
DRE as “Howard” (i.e. George Joannides) was not an “actual person” but merely “a
routing indicator?"

2) What is the CIA's explanation for the complete absence of reporting on the
ORE and Oswald from Its extant files on the AM/SPELL operation? After the DRE made
public statements about Lee Harvey Oswald on November 22, 1963, what were Mr.
Joannides’ reporting obligations, if any, under the procedures and practices of the
Operations Directorate? Did Mr. Joannides, in the view of the Agency today, fulfill those
obligations in all respects?

3) Will the CIA provide a background briefing to me and a colleague to clarify
these and other questions arising from the documentation of the CIA's relationship with
the DRE in 1962-64 and from Mr. Joannides' rale in the Agency's response to the HSCA
Investigation In 1978-79? - : eta

‘The apparent fallure of the CIA to accurately disclose the activities of one of Its
case officers in November 1963 to the JFK records review board is noteworthy. Public
canfidence in the CIA's swom statements about its compliance with the JFK Records
Act depends on verification of those statements. If the Historical Review Office was
misinformed about Mr. Joannides and passed that inaccurate information to the public, it
behooves the agency to correct the error quickly and clarify all questions arising from its
original misstatements of fact.

Th for var to this matter.
Jet iar

Staff Writer bd
Washington Post 7

0) 202/334-6863
f) 202/334-6138

Enclosure:

ce: Rick Atkinson
Scott Armstrong

