(104-10102-10154)

4
27 April 1977 nm
Background Use ¢
SUBJECT : Victor Espinosa Hernandez Nat Repro
REFERENCE: SSC Final Report (Book V), Pages 78, 79, a
and 105 - (A Cuban Exile) Kk

> a

1. Subject arrived in the United States on 2 May 1960. He was
granted a POA on 18 October 1960 for participation in operations
against the Cuban regime. He was terminated on 20 March 1961 as a
malcontent. tn Lee Ongetir

2. In July 1963, Subj jas lved with the purchase and
caching of 2400 pounds of -dynamite;~100 pounds of practice bombs and
other related material “and with plotting to bomb the Shell Oil Com-
Pany and other Cuban targets. Since the FBI felt that the aerial at-
tack on Cuba had been effectively thwarted by seizure of the munitions
and impounding of the aircraft, they contemplated no criminal action
at that oe fers Subject and his cohorts.

3. On ay 1965, Subject contacted an INS officer who, on the
basis of information in Subject's story which appeared to,affect U.S.
security, notified the FBI. On the same day (2 MayT965) » Sybject
was interviewed by the FBI ang CIA was notified on 3 May 965. CIA
contacted Subject on 4 Meth ‘the New York field office of the FBI.
The gist of Subject's story was that he was aware that AMLASH and
others had been planning a coup which involved the assassination of
Castro and that CIA had been involved with AMLASH and others in the

plotting. a EA IS.
4. In a 9 June 1965 cable from Headduarters to and
DIRECTOR 17510, Headquarters advised the an tat

"it evident that security of dur Cuban ops im some cas@s-and our own
compartmentation not all that we would desire. Urge therefore that
Stations concerned continue take such steps as feasible to improve se-

curity," .
201+ Fale. . ue
5. The ‘Ageney does not have copies of the FBI reports cited in
Book V of the SSC Final Report.

6. The information supplied by subjects adds little, if anything,
to the overall SSC report. It simply shows that the SSC was reviewing
every lead.

€2, IMPDET
CL BY 004645

(SECRET:

12/89
