# 104-10333-10017

## Page 1

104-10333-10017|

6402

SECRET

WORKING PAPER - DRAFT

Talking Points for Files Briefing

for 12 February 1997

Per list submitted by Jeremy Gunn and pursuant to discussion on 5 February 1997 between Gunn

and

the following topics are requested for coverage in the "records briefing

scheduled for 12 February 1997. More specifics were identified than covered in the Memorandum

for the Record dated 8 January 1997 by Harrelson/

_It is NOT meant that the detail of the

question is the detail of the briefing expected, that is, the questions are for the purpose of

identifying the types of files that may exist versus the expectation of a complete answer NOW.

The topics are not to be considered to be in any order of importance. Primarily the time frame of

concern is 1958-63. In some cases, it may mean proving evidence of "no records."

Gunn further queried whether notes could be taken.

***

DO Records Issues

Current location of records - HQ

Stations - where else? Gunn's access

and shelf lists!

V Explanation of all filing systems/indices/inventories/shelf lists for DO records - how

searches are done,

V Accounting for destroyed records

Tracking cables and dispatches

J Is "doctoring" of personnel/201 files done? If so, why, when, and how? Could trace of an

employee as such be obliterated - i.e., could John McVickar ever have been an

employee?

Backchannel communications - how recorded or registered? Were such records searched

for inclusion in the JFK collection?

Front Office DDP

Any DCI records in DO records?

Tape recordings of DDP offices, meetings; especially with regard to Helms. If done, where

filed, how identified, whether searched and included in JFK collection?

Any Bissell and Helms files in DO records?

v Stations (location of records), what kept, where, for how long, records of destructior

Were any inventories created?

CC:

Staff D

Cuba projects

FBI liaison

Other US entity liaison

WORKING PAPER -- DRAFT

SECRET

Friday, February 07, 1997

---

## Page 2

13-00000

SECRET

WORKING PAPER - DRAFT

Soft files

Other stations

CI

Angleton

Angleton's liaison with FBI

Any Angleton-directed operations without station knowledge or inclusion

Angleton's liaison with Office of Security

HTLINGUAL/Project Hunter - ever used as an Agency communications link behind the

Iron curtain, utilizing secret writing

Anything in the way of an Oswald file in CISIG

WH

How is WH organized, how are its files organized, how are the files inventoried, where and

how filed at HQ ol

Project W-SAS (i.e., Cuba)

Are the files separate from WH in the 1961-63 time frame

Searches (How are they done in 1997 for 1963 operations?)

v Name files

* Project files

Personnel Records

Reports by informants (i.e., June Cobb) -- centralized or separated between two files: one

for source information and one for the information provided by the source?

Are records around a specific hit searched

Issues

Win Scott's files obtained from his office or home in Mexico City. When gathered by

Angleton, where placed or how dispersed at HQ? How accounted for, any other

searches possible?

U-2 Files. Some reference by Bissell to false manuals for an indeterminate use at an

Accounting, especially for Angleton - how handled, how filed, how searchable?

David Atlee Phillips - personnel file, other files?, how he wrote Nightwatch, where he

wrote it, was it written with agency and/or Colby support?

How many US penetrations of Soviet and/or Cuban facilities in Mexico City were there in

October 63, what type(s) - electronic surveillance, teltaps, and/or penetrations?

Identify all records facilities/organization thereof

2

WORKING PAPER - DRAFT

SECRET

Friday, February 07, 1997

---

