# 104-10172-10227

## Page 1

104-10172-10227

frisses,

CLASSIFIED M'ESSAGE

SECRET

Bonpoldoy 10N 00

: 5

TO

: CIRECTOR

FFO!! : LONDON

ACTION: CAS 2 (DE AUTIFIED AND COPY SLOTTED 092U 15 M 63 L45)

INFO : ACDS, C/CI, (C/S33, RE 2

(EYES ONLY)

SECRET 151133Z

OPIM DIR CITE LOND 3485

IMSDIATE ACTION

RYSAT AELADLE

REF A LOND 3432 (1 776S9)

B LOND 3A59 (In 2S4)

C LOND

3414

1 75404) 11

D LOND

3482

(+ 78524)112

§ LOND 3469 (111 78559)

F LOND 3479

(1 79119.

G DIR 54114

15 JoL 63 m7966:

1. FOLLOWING WILL BE SUMMARY OF REF CABLES WHICH

REPORTED IN DETAIL ON BREAXING OF AELADLE STORY IN PRESS

HERE PLUS STATION COMMENT. AFFAIR BEGAN WHEN DAILY TELEGRAPH

CORRESPONDENT APPROACHED ALIENS DEPT OF HOME OFFICE AT NOON BIJULY

WITH STORY THAT TELEGRAPH HAD HEARD FROM THEIR U.S. CONTACT THAT

RUSSIAN HAD DEFECTED IN U.S. AND WAS LATER BROUGHT ID UX.

THIS STORY WAS INVEDJATELY REPORTED TO (JAGUART (SMEARER]

TOLO CAMOOD THAT (SMARTY)TOCK POSITION THAT PRESS MUST NOT

EE DELUDED SECAUSE SINCE THEY VERE CLEARLY ON TO AELADLE.

A "NO COM'EVT" RESPONSE WOULD SE CONFIRMATORY

AND A DENIAL,

r.r

1473

SECRET

ESCLUDES EACH AUTOMATIC DOLO

CRAJINAdiO OCCLASSIFICATICA.

REPRODUCTION SY OTHER THAN IME ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy Na

3/pV

---

## Page 2

CARSSIFICO MESSAGE

SECRET

i18 79f4.

PAGE

IF THE STORY CANE OUT CONCLUSIVELY PROVING AELADLE IN U. K...

WOULD BE FURTHER PROOF MAGYRIAN BOUTS EFFORTS DELUDE DRESS

AND PUBLIE, WHICH FOLLOWING PHILDY AND PROFUMO. WOULD OL

55 DISASTROUS, IT IS NOT GLEAR IO STATION UNETHER (SMARTY

#AS TOLD TO TAXE THIS LINE BY SENIOR POLITICAL MASTERS OR

WHETHER IT WAS ORIGINAL WITH HIM AND HE PUSHED IT VITH

POLITICAL MASTERS WINNING THEIR APPROVAL. WE KNOW HE SPENT

GOOD DEAL OF TIME WITH SENIOR CABIVET OFFICERS LAST THURSDAY

AND FRIDAY,

2. THE D NOTICE ISSUED LA:E ON 11 JULY CONTAINED A MINIMUM

OF DETAIL BUT IT REMAINS MYSTERY TO STATION WHY IT WAS DECIDED

TO INCLUDE ASLADLE'S NAME. EMIMPEDED COMMENTING ON THIS LATER

SAID HE WISHED THAT (JAGUARZ¡OULD HAVE PLAYED THE PRESS STATEMENT

SIMILAR TO XUBARK, ADDING VIARILY THAT "HE SHOULDN'T BE TALKING

AGAINST HIS OUN PEOPLE" :UT THE TOP COMMAND IN JAGUARJHAD

MADE THIS DECISION. (SMI-PENE SAID HE COULD NOT UNDERSTAND WHY

THEY MADE THAT DECISION.

3. THE TELEGRAPH CIIPESPONDENT WHO HAS PUSHED THIS STORY

IS JOHN BULLOCH, A 32 .%:IR OLD REPORTER WHO IS AUTHER OF IDEN

BOOK. (JAGUAR)HAVE NO: PROG INFO ON HIM. HE SPECIALIZES IN

SECURITY AND INTEL STO: ES. WHEN SMOKE BLOWS ANAY (JAGUAR]

INTEND. INVESTIGATE WH: E TELEGRAPH STORY BUT DO NOT WISH

DO SO NOW FOR FEAR DI: JING MORE ATTENTION TO MATTER AND POSSIBLY

FURTHER IRRITATING P' SS.

A. THE TELEGRAP! JROKE D NOTICE RESTRICTIONS ON BOTH

STORY AND ALSO NAÑI". AELADLE, BUT HAVING DONE THIS THEY HAVE

GONE COMPLETELY MATURE ON THEIR ANALYSIS AND HIVE CONFUSED

STRET

---

## Page 3

14-00000

CLASSIFIEO MESSAGE

SPAR

IN

226.

PAGE 3

SEV WHO BRIEFLY STATIONED LOVO EI KITH AELADLE. ASIDE FROM

PICTURE APPEARINS IN MIRROR IS JULY WIIN FACE COMPLETELY BLOCKED

CUT, THUS MAKINS IDENTIFICHTIOY IMPOSSIBLE, NO PICTURSS HAVE

APPEARED IN PRESS. MIRROR PICTURES WAS CLEARLY SOME SOV PICKED

AT RANDON FOR TYPICAL SENSITIONAL PUTERSIA--.

SO BY SUNDAY THE STORY MAD PRETTY MUCH EXHAUSTED ITSELF.

SINCE UNLIKE THE PROFUMO/LESLER/ IVANO CASE IT HAS NO

SEX ANGLE AND THERE VERE CLEARLY NO MORE FACTS AVAILABLE AND

THE PRESS® OUN INVESTIVENESS WAS NEARING EXHAUSTION IT LOOKS

NCY AS THOUGH THINGS WILL QUIET DOWN. THE PRESS SUNDAY DID

COYMEST STELEGRAPH, ESPECIALLY, OF ALL PAPERS) ON WHAT

CURIOUS ACTION THE GOUT TOOX IN SLAPPING ON THE D NOTICE.

THE EXPRESS TYPICALLY HAD A MAJOR ARTICLE STATING WHOLE

AFFAIR WAS FURTHER ATTEMPT BY CERTAIN (UNIDENTIFIED) "HIGH

LEVEL U.S. OFFICIALS IN WASHINGTON TO PROMOTE RUMORS THAT

AELADLE DISCLOSURES WILL LEAD TO EVEN WORSE BRITISH SPY SCANDALS

AND ARTICLE THEN IN RETALIATION RECITES U.S. SECURITY FAILURES

FROM ROSENBERGS THROUGH MARTIN AND MITCHELL.

S. DAILY HERALD 1S JULY CARRIES STORY THAT "AMERICANS

ARE NOW ACCUSING BRITIEN SECURITY SERVICESJOF STUPIDITY

IN REVEALING DOLINTSIN'S DEFECTION AND NAME LAST WEEX: IN FACT

EASTED NOT TO PRINT THE FACTS. BUT ASTER

OVE NATIONAL NEWSPAP:? (THE TELEGRAPHS PUBLISHED A REPORT

IT HAD RECEIVED FRO: WASHINGTON, OTHER PAPERS ALSO PUBLISHED

THE STORY. BRITISY OFFICIALS ARE FURIOUS THAT VASHINGTON IS

ACCUSISE THEM OF REISASING THE FACTS TO BOLSTER BRITAIN"S

SECURITY SERVICEST O TO CLAIM A TAJOR DATEN REINES TRIAPH.-

ч/TV

---

## Page 4

796i-d.

4

PAGE

CLASSITIEO MESSAGE

IN

?. STATION CHECKED VITY EMERSE)ESTING 1S JULY ON

RELATLE CURSENT ATTITUDE BUT (SNIMPE-JHAD NOTHING ADD TO WHAT

STATIOS REPORTED REF & PARA TARES, [SIMPEDE) SALO JE THERE HAD

REY ANY OURFICULTY AELADLE MOULD QUIE CALLED FENIMPEDE.

9. (JAGUAR) CONFIRM THERE IS NO CONTEGTION BETWEEN SOVIET

ATTACKE GENNADI STEPANOV'S RETURN PESOCH AND AELADLE PUBLICITY

hERE, THOUGH SEVERAL PAPERS TYPICALLY CARRY STORIES 15 JULY

INSISTING THERE IS. ALSO HOS MAY NOTE THAT AELADLE NAME

GIVEN TO PRESS NOT SAME AS IDEN DIR JA7JA DUE TO SLIGHT GARBLE

BY HOME OFFICE, BUT JAGUAR) PREFER STRONGLY RESTRICT COMMENTARY

ON THIS FOR OSVIOUS REASONS.

9. SUMMARIZING, IT IS STATION VISY THAT BRIT AUTHORITIES

ACTSO TOO HASTILY AND IN SOME PANIC THIS WHOLE MATTER,

ESPECIALLY IN GIVING NAME TO PRESS. NETHER [SMARTY)WAS

PUSHED BY HIS POLITICAL MASTERS INTO POSITION "NOT

DELUDING PRESS" OR WHETHER IT HIS OWN IDEA IS STILL NOT CLEAR.

HOWEVER, IRRESPONSIBILITY PRESS, AS TYPIFIED BY TELEGRAPH PUSHING

STORY FLUS ITS INCREDIBLE FABRICATIONS, IS FACTOR NOT TO BE

IGNORED IN THIS WHOLE PROBLEM PLUS FACT THAT THE BRIT PRESS SINCE

RADCLIFFE INQUIRY PILLORING HAS NOT, BEEY IN MOCO COOPERATE

WITH GOUT ON ANYTHING THIS APPLIES WHETHER PAPER IS TORY

OR NOTS, WHILE STATION CANNOT UNDERSTALO VHY LAGUAR) OR

POLITICAL AUTHORITIES FELT NAME HAD TO SE GIVEN OUT, THE

RELEASE OF A MIMIMUM AMOUNT OF INFO, AS VAS DONE, BY HOME OFFICE

STATEMENT PROBABLY XILLED FURTHER DANGERSUS SPECULATION. HAVING

SHEVED OVER WHAT WAS AVAILABLE, THE PRESS NOW SEEM TO BE LOSING

INTEREST.

SECRET

---

## Page 5

14-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

IN

7. 1 PAGE 5

IC. ТНЕ МОРТІКУ

DEJEFICIARY FROM THIS UNHAPPY AFFAIR

WILL BE THE SOVS IF BOTM SIDES OF THE ATLANTIC KEEP UP THE

CURRENT STREAM OF CRITICISM AND ABUSE AS REFLECTED IN PRESS

SCRIES. IN THIS CONNECTION, AMSASSADOR BRUCE EXPRESSED HIS

DESP CONCERN TO LEELSMORNING IS JULY THAT THIS SITUATION SHOULD

NOT BE ALLOWED CONTINUE AND SAID HE MOFED NEITHER SIDE WOULD

BE SO SILLY AS TO PERMIT THIS SITUATION DETERIORATE INTO ILL

TEMPERED NAME CALLING CONTEST. STATION DOUBTS THIS WILL HAPPEN

AND THROUGHOUT THIS MATTER AS IN PREVIOUS RECENT FLAPS HAVE

FOUND NO ILL FEELING IN EITHER (JAGUAR OR SMOTHO) THUS VE BELIEVE

THAT THERE IS MORE SOUND AND FURY SY THE PRESS, WHICH

LATELY MAS REACHED NEW DEPTHS OF IRRESPONSIBILITY ON BOTH SIDES

OF THE ATLANTIC, THAN SUBSTANCE WITHIN OFFICIAL BODIES,

ESPECIALLY OUR SERVICE OPPOSITES.

SECRET

S/C NOTE: "PORTION GARBLED - BEING SERVICED.

SECRET.

z/pV

---

## Page 6

14-00000

•saR

DATE

TO

FRO!!

ACTION:

INFO :

010

15 JuL 63

DIRECTOR

LONDON

C/vE 2

i 1

100F, C/CI, C/SR 3, FF?

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

EYES only)

TO

INFO

E51861 1

18 15 13157. 63

SERVICE

OPERATIONAL iMMEDIATE

IN 79667A LONO 31S5

CITE

RYBAT AELADELE

C/S COMENTS

COMPLLTS PAGE 3, PARAGRATH 6, LINE 4 AND 5 TO READ:

"...THE _BRITISH FRESS WERE ASKED NOT TO PRINT THE FACTS.

BUT AFTER..

GROUP

int.c.9.d..g

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITED.

Cary Noi

---

