# 104-10128-10355

## Page 1

104-10128-10355

3-11-1-1-1

(When Filled

In)

2 7 JUN 1957

MEMORANDUM FOR:

ATTENTION

FROM

Chief, Contract Personnol Division

: Deputy Director of Security (Investigations

and Support)

SUBJECT

: CIDADES, Michaol Ho (P)

#20696

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Noi Reproduce

1. Reference is made to the memorandum dated 18 June 1957

in which a covert security clearance was requested to permit the

Subject's conversion frou an Ops Offcer (PP), 0S-l, DDP/H, Eranch

Havana, Cuba, to an Ops Officer (PP), QS-lli, IDP/NEA, Egypt and

Arab states Branch, Project E2p Beirut, Lobarol,

2. In accordance with the provisions set forth in the Director's

Memorandum of 14 February 1949 entitled,

"Security and Operational

Clearances," a covert security clearance is granted for the use of the

Subject, as described in your request as set forth in paragraph 1,

above•

For admintetrative purposes only, this elearance 1e effective

as of 16 June 1957•

3. Subjects of covert security clearances are not to represent

themselves as, nor are they to be represented as, employees of cia.

→ Your attention is called to the fact that a covert security

clearance does not constitute complete compliance with the provisions

of CIA Regulation 10-210. Therefore, if you should desire at a later

sate to change the status or use of this individual, a request for

S05:185

clearance to cover any proposed change should be submitted to this

S5D, Chief office.

A lo Chine e are not ran the 0 a to he date of us set randu.

/ 4. 10 Dep.

11 & Trng.

.:. Inv. Dr.

• :. Sup. Br.

FOR THE DIRECTOR OF SECURITY:

16: 59-

Robert H. Cunningham

GODA R: ng

24 June 1957

SSD Files

S-E-C-R-E-T

---

