104-10193-10077

in a . A) --

“MATERIAL REVIEWED AT CIA READQUARTERS BY

HOUSE SELECT CoNNETTZE ON-ASSASSINATIONS- STAFF MEMBERS

Fie Frree wuinke VOLE: il HICKS, 7 CAL:

CUSTODIAL UNI T/LOCATION :.
: : : ROOM:



NOTIFICATION.

OF PERSONNEL ACTICaw

T hast ant resto

WICKS cAuve ;

+ GGER OT Roe
Pegtivar
TE Sona aoe

ser? argh es PL asean 8227 20
We WeaTION GF orhicaL aT = Tae

TFS Ht 7 7 anon mE

MATCH MFRTOrR 0 pms
Ta CNTR TT TE RT TRO MRT |e CDE TA TT

yee? 0° [aes

SIGNATURE 08 OTHER AUTRENTICATION

8, oR Use Previous | jal]


: wider cra Retirement’ & Disability.
: tem '& Car ellation of CA

7 uca aytnonte oe ty he off:
LPeriveadl

*-DDO/Operations ‘Staff : ee let : : : z c
“Intelligence Group. ; :
- Intelligence Watch Branch.

Wash, D.
Ti pamon TE

rrr

7 rae TS Saat Geant BeaGRATON
Watch Officor , aay 0947 + 7} + Daa
Fo Sanne Ie TET aT

15. OcewPATONAL sents | 16. GRADE AND STE =
Gs

17 SAY OF Bate

; 0132.07

ranrersry

vf 138 9, 1 26y189. B7er

LWD: 27 December 1974
Orig-= CG/NID.

1 = Payroll

1 = oPS/sP

Co-ordinsted with]
30 January 1975.

Tan nenis Ys
oe 246) 2 4

_ SSPACE ott Ow Poa Ekelusive USE OFT
[22 stanow [12 micee,
om

a)
“ALPRARETS

ro tp MO On on

es | f i/jeria4| | 1

Ina oA | SePaMATON| CORTON CLT BATA |
Tease an cooe

[ar aan fee
ve | | €OD DATA baadtuiat
Gy118,0039,0 [ee

tars ar at Ta cu anon

oa ve [ata Pear
Fe atic

26. ont of aoe [7 ait of
7

“wo soca eer w,

ut at {8
cout

tans

5s mead) ras) 110

| SChMEAL  Se, sot tae? TAR)
1S, POMPON CONTROL CSTCATION

ie

| :
tg cam
i

Z-tP-?2 O7 FEB 1975
SH S2 | aemeosomm
F

iat oe] a]


ADMINISTRATIVE +

“MEMORANDUM FOR :. Chairman,’ Board of Medical Examiners
SUBJECT. ys Request for Medical Evaluation « -
Mr. -Caivia W. Hicks

r.

. °) AS ‘gabject, a participant in the GIA Retirement’ and Disability
System, has applied for disability retirement undet the provisions-of
Section 231 of Public Law 88-643, Central Intelligence Agency.
Retirement Act of 1964 for Certain Employees. . It is: requested that.
a medical examination be arranged for Subject ‘and that a written
report of the Board of Medical, Examiners as prescribed in Paragraph
£.(4) of HR 20-50 be submitted:to the Director of Personnel,

2, Attached are copies of the Supervisor's Statement, thé
Application for Disability Retirement, and a private physician's

‘statement,

3. Subject intends to remain on duty until a decision te made
‘ogarding his application for diaability ratirement.

R: L.-Austin, Jr.
Deputy Director.of Personnel
for Special Programs

Attachments:
a. Supervisor's Statement

b. Application
c. Physician's Statement

oy Te ~ ype
Pers
i : SoB Soft File
> ROB

OP/RAD/ROB,



‘10 December 1973

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Career Peer Group

Proinotion of Mrs: alvin W. Hick:

SUBJECT: :

* 1,. ‘I would solicit Career Management Group.and the Promotion Panel
to consider the overall career of Calvin W. Hicks when deciding on the cur-
rent cycle’ of promotions from GS-13 to GS-14.

2. After Mr, Hicks EOD in ‘1980; fe advanced rapidly in three years

to GS-11. Hewas promoted to GS-12 In 1956, six years later to.GS-13 in

.1962, and. Since then has been almost 12 years in grade... He has had over-

seas tours with FE and NE Divisions, has served ds a training instructor, on
@ PM task, force, and with Miami Ops and area branches In WH. In these *
‘assignments he. consistently received Strong ratings. Despite a largely para~
military background, .in 1967 he adjusted'to.the Intelligence production-cycle
and developed thé skills. of an operations officer. doing operations-orlented
reports work in the Intelligence Watch. As of this date he has the longest
continuity in'the Intelligence Watch and is rated as a mature and thoughtful
individual whe; exercises excellent professional judgment. He was recom=
mended for, promotion. from GS-13 to GS-14 "in April 1968 and in April 1969.

In 1970 he was recommended for a QSI-by. FI Chief, Peer deSilva, Ho was.

* ‘again recommended for promotion in March 1971, In November 1972, and th

November 1973,

3, Admittedly, promotions are competitive and the rankings are rela-
tive and must be adjusted to the headroom available, The overall history of
his career would seem to argue the. equity, of granting the often recommended
Promotion to Mr, Calvin Hicks as he nears ‘the end of a career. Mr. Hicks ts
49 years old and has’a, family of five children, He has a medical hold which
will not allow him to serve overseas at this time and he therefore, contem~
plates retirement at age 50 (in late 1974), He is and will be until then a
valuable member of the Intelligence Watch.

4, [recommend that the promotion which has escaped him in the last
decade be granted at the time of this year’s promotion cycle.

Chief, Operations Staff



MEMORANDUM, FOR:, Career Managenent ‘Group. Sees eee theca
° i Mid-Career Officer Branch ieee eare eee dea

SUBJECT <<. Recéarendat ton for the: Pramoi ton of calvin W.- Hicks. cose
u 14

1," I would again Vike to recommend ‘the promotion of subject officer from

@s-13 to GS-14. Mr. Hicks has been with the Intelligence Watch since June 1967
and his ‘performance has beer’ characterized. consistently by exceptional profictency.
He serves cn a rotating schedule with seven other officers doing. Cecile) work,
Sone of whom are currently in GS-18. 4

2 2. A medical hold has precluded any further. ¢ overseas assignments and for
this reason his stay in, IW has been-extended until November 1974, "when he will’
be 50-years-old at which time he plans ‘to retire under the “Agency retirement

system.

3. Mr. Hicks* resourcefuindss and ‘ability to apply the multitude of
reporting instructions and techniques have been convincingly demonstrated in
.cerists situations such as the recent Chilean coup and the Middle-Eastern crisis.
He. has consistently displayed initiative and. good judgrient- in meeting unforeseen
crisis with rapfd and effective action and has clearly demonstrated his ability

to continuously adjust to rotating shifts and the irregular flow .of traffic.

4. For his sustained high level of” performance ii 1972 Mr. Hicks received
a quality step increase in- recognition and as proof of the high esteem in which
he is held by his superiors. He occupies a GS-14 slot. His promotion is again
recommended in recognition of his: long years of Agency service.

Cr
Join A. “Frocaccino
C/OPS/INT/IW

E2 IMPDET CLBY 002025



26’Septeiiber 1973

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Operations Staff

SUBJECT: "Appreciation of IW Performance » Duritg

“Chilean Upheays!

1. The officers of the Intelligence Watch (IW) perfornied
admirably in swiftly processing the heavy flow of intelligence

- engendered: by the recent political upheaval in Chile. In many

instances, reports were. in the hands of customers in the intel-
ligence community within minutes of being filed in Santiago,

2. Please oxtchd te’ the IW officers coricerned the appre--
ciation of this Division for théir fine performance, I suggest that
a copy of this memorandum be piaced in the personnel folder of
each of the officers concerned.

le Li
David A. Phillips
es Chief, Western Hemisphere Divis

E2 IMPDET
CL BY 039964



NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL’ ACTION

2ICS_C att
TS

95636)

173_ ie
a ga TT a

[Wicks CALVIN
aT ora ae

Tie Ik

4222 4126 boo

Tae RIFT e 7 7 ior oF OFA TANG
OCO/FI STAFF

WASH» Dole

Lo a
WATCH OFFICER. - Og47 oO
ry ramen — renee r srr
cs

0132.07 3

cy

L_ SIGNATURE O8 OTHER AUTHENTICATION



MEMORANDUM FOR: Calvin W. Hicks
SUBJECT . & Quality ‘Step Increase

2, Iwas pleased to learn that you have been

~ granted a Quality Step Increase. Such recdgnition

is proof of the high osteem-in which you are held

by your supervisors in the Clacdestine Service.

2, Please accept my personal best wishes, I
am confident that your future performance will be

of a continuing high quality.

[Sf Cord Koyor, Ive

Far, i
‘Thongs H, Karanessines
Deputy Director for Plans

-CSPS/SOB/Hileberman; rv(LlApr72)

Distribution:
Orig - Addressee
g - OP/Files
- DDP/Registry
1 = 8/SOD
- C/SOD/Pers

1
1 - CSPS/Subject File.



“ conioewniat:

TOAPR 2972

MEMORANDUM FOR: secretary, DDP/QSI - HMA Panel
SUBJECT ‘Notification of ‘Approval of”

Quality Step Increase -
Calvin W. Hicks

_ 1. Tam pleased to send to you the attached
official notification of the! approval of the Quality Step
Inérease which you recommended for this employee.

. 2. As this award i8 designed to encourage
excellence by recognizing and rewarding the employee,
may Iask that you arrange to have this Quality Step

Increase presented at an appropriate ceremony.

” ie)
bs i. fa eet om
Harry B. Fisher
"Director of Personnel

a



ena aT

MEMORANDUM FOR:.: Chief,. Foreign Intelligence Staff.’

SUBJECT

intelligence Watch Assistance to
European Division :

1... As, I am preparing to leave the European ‘Divisia,
a note of appreciation is’ in order. for the services renderéd
to us for the four years of my‘tenure’:here by the officers
of the Intelligence Watch. :

2, At a time of: increasingly complicated intelligence
collection and reporting problems, our Agency has come of
vage.. We have recognized that information often cannot be
allowed to wait for attention until sunrise, and that we
must be able -to“réspond to national needs and world. events
pround the clock’, The ‘Intelligence Watch, more than any
other single institution, has made it possible for us to
do this. We have benefited from its cooperation particularly
‘under strained reporting ‘conditions -- during Presidential. | -
trips abroad, for instance -- but have also found IW's
presence and judgment helpful at, other times. I know that
my staff relied on IW extensively, : :

3. I am making a point’ of recognizing this because
- the Intelligence Watch a bit like our Agency as a whole --
.4s apt to gét more attention With an occasional slip than
with a record of continuing accomplishment and success in
coping with problems. From what I have been able to observe,
the job'has been wéll done.

4, I hope you will bring this remorandum to the
attention of those concerned,

John’ L. Hart /
niet
| /Baropean Division

Joseph Procaccino i
Walter Kuzmuk ycalvin Hicks
james Pekich Robert Sawicki

Frank Levy

sw SECRET :



oe cretieraeceeee ‘ < Rice Ce

“Regular

Intelligence Watch: 5 : Washington, D.-C. :
Thon Ta > iy roto ane 1 atea BREE DETONATION

‘Watch Officer. : of 0947 = D

Va GASWNCARGN SODAS (G5, LB, om) sr ectunincwa semes (te Gabe an ae 17. aaa OR WATE

cs 0132.07 13.7 21,313 4

Been 7 ; . an

Reassigned from Position FI/INT/IW = 1032-2

Distribution:
Orig. - CSPS/SOB'
1 - FI/Pers

oa sme Tae WaTURE GF CARD HVE ARON GEER [Enid ORD
%2 Dee 71 ph ae :

: SY A we Lh nen (02-29
SPACE MLOW FOR CXCLUSIVE USE OF Tht OFMCE_OF PIRSONNEL

a ae a
at ae: ae a Ls ars ¥ 4 f_+_|
ral naa £00 OaTA |

vias Gar Gt UNM aneot { Re peu aaa @ soca SeunTe ao

oe oe ae laoreet G8
Penta |

PREMiOUS Gira SORRAAENT SEAMICE @ ue OF {ea racy
peo. ratvans wan - [roam execureD
tome mu w ser

{CRur send 8 ma rat
eur Stace men mam |

aS PGEON CONTEC. CETRCATION



YS « ped a ae

maou FOR: “Scenctaay, c£25/Scerion J A :

AiGonnitndatvoN EoR THE PROMOTION OF Canvas “Wis, Hreks
(05636 0) ro sane : Hie sHeae

1.0 lb acéonineno THe Promotion OF suBscET OFFICER” FROM GS-13 v0 GS-4,
Mas Hicks #a3 Been ASSIGNED To THE INTELLIGENCE WaTcH/Fl Stare SiNCE JUNE
JOT /AND SEAVES ONA ROTATING ScnEOULE WITH SEVEN OTHER’ OFFICERS OOING
IDENTICAL WORK, FOUR OF WHOM ARE CURRENTLY in GRADE GS-14,

2. Ma. Hicks was ecen IN THE InTELLIGeNce WaTcn (IW) ror ALMOST.
FOUR YEARS AND HIS: WORK, BOTH QUANTITATIVELY AND QUALITATIVELY, HAS BCEN

CONSISTENTLY OF A VERY HIGH CALIGER.

3. His KEENLY OLVELOPED SENSE OF OPERATIONAL SECURITY RESULTING FROM
MIS EXTENSIVE PARAMILITARY VEXPERI ENCE) COUPLED WiTH. HIS CLEAR UNDERSTAND=
ING OF THE RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN OPERATIONS AND. INTELLIGENCE,, HAS MADE HIM
A VERY FING OFFICER AND. A VALUABLE ASSET TO IW. He WAS. GECN UNDER MY SUH
peavision, FoR 18 MONTHS AND | HAVE-KAD AMPLE CAPORTUNITY 70 OBSERVE HIS
PERFORMANCE UNDFR CONDITIONS OF ST! + He viay aBuy appures A muLTiTUbE ©
OF DETAIL AND GENERAL REPORTING INSTRUCTIONS TO THE OLFFERENT. SITUATIONS.
MANIFEST IN CACH INCOMING REPORT AND OISPLAYS INITIATIVE IN MEETING UN-
FORCSEEN CRISES WITH RAPID AND CFFECTIVC ACTION, SINCE THE INTELLIGENCE
ANFORMATION 1S THE FACE THAT THe CcanocsTING Scavice PUTS OUT To THE IN=
TELLIGENCE COMMUNITY, THE PLAFORMANGE OF WATCH OFFICERS 1S OF GREAT -
iMPORTANCE, THIS FACTOR BECOMES APPARENT WHEN IT 1S NOTED THAT OVER
75 PERCENT OF ALL CABLEO INTELLIGENCE REPORTS ARE OISSEMINATED BY IW,

YW. Ma. HICKS HAS AN EXTENSIVE BACKGROUND IN PARAMILITARY OPERATIONS
BOTH IN THE FIELD AND AT HEADGUAATERS. ALL OF HIS FITNESS REPORTS FOR THE
SIX YEARS PREGEOING HIS ASSIGKHENT To IW HAVE BORNE THE OVERALL RATING
of “sTaoNG.” He HAS BEEN DESCAFSEO AS "HIGHLY MOTIVATED, SINCERE, AeiD,
CAPABLE." ALSO, “HE WORKS WELL WITH OTHERS AND HIS KNOWLEDGE AND ABILITY
ARE RESPECTED." OTHER SUPERVISORS DURING THE YEARS PRIOR TO THIS ASSIGN=
(MENT HAVE DESCRIBED Him AS "SERICUS, HARD=WORKING AND DEPENDABLE.” HIS
PERFORMANCE IN HIS PRESENT ASSIGNMENT HAS OZMONSTRATED THESE SAME QUALI~

TIES.

5. Ma. Hicks 15 A OISTINGT ASSET To IW AnD I] HIGHLY RECOMMEND HIS
FOR PROMOTION TO GS-1h,

GOSEPH A. PROCACCINO
Cuier, FI/INT/IW



suBJECT Request. for Quaiie

tion -décisions,,

SECRET

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chatrmai’s ‘pop QSI and Honor and Merit eae
ei ‘Awards Panel fee .

tep Increase. ~
Mr. Calvin W. HICKS, GS-13", (056361)

I recommend that a Quality Step Increase be

‘awarded to Mr., Calvin W.. Hicks.

2. Mr. Hicks 1s one of three officers ‘in the Intel-
ligence watch, FI Staff, on whom identical recommendations
are. being submitted, These officers, all. in grade GS-13,
have for’ Several‘ years done responsible and demanding work,
identical to that done in;the same office by five other of+
‘ficers, GS-14 and “15, and‘all’ three’ have been rated "Strong."

3. The Intelligence’ Watch is the primary ea
dissemination office of the Clandestine Service. Its out~
put .of over 2,000 reports'a month is.:the chief ‘end-product
of CS ci Jlection operations, Watch Officers serve on a
‘rotating schedule... When an officer draws the night. shift
he'serves alone. .He must make quick, independent dissemina-
ir. Hicks has done well at this work. He
is alert and .conscientious~and, has a sharp operational sensé
which 4s extreniely useful in the handling of CS intelligence
information. He has been: recommended several times for | pro-

motion to GS-14,

4. The high quality of Mr. Hicks's performance has
continued for more than ‘two years, There is no reason to
expect any decline~-in it. His enthusiasm continues, and
his tour has recently been extended for another two years.

‘S. Consideration has been given to recommending’ him
for an Honor and Merit Award, but on balance I believe that
a Quality Step Increase would be more appropriate.

. Peer de, STIVa ;
Fi Chief E
Foreign Intelligence

: -SECRET



ee

Requést: ‘for Quality Step Incvease
Mr. Calvin W, HICKS, GS-13- (056361)

APPROVAL RECOMMENDED:

Chairman, CS QST Panel Date~

Director of Personnel Date

SECRET ae


Sees st a

ae AUMORANE :. Chiel, FIs

teh, einen,
rope

So Durdag thes Presidént's: Trip. tof

| ei SubgECT ob powrovmance! of ‘the’ inte LLikenee.

Jol. Nowsthat the President's trip to Europe has béen ae
eouelideds..f feel that a-special commendattoy Toe. the |
Intel bynes Wateh (IW) as: dn order.

i 2. ‘ine coutixibution thats is
, dm the Intelligence Wateh is often Caken fou granted. Thus
fo at was alaturat for us, when we formed’ our task force bor
the President's Ueip, to busdd our: atranzencnts, foi positive:
intelligence disseminations. around) (he t's twenty=Lo :
hour-asday availability eowere net disappointed.” The ,
‘ ‘system worked smuothly and efficiently. .

‘Deing wade by the officers ” ae

i 3. Un addition to that, it became clear that the : ae
Intelligence Watch Officers wove willing and able to go :
beyond the simple Galt of duty. | We came to admire ‘their :
competence, courtesy, anil cooperation, without whieli :
effective intelligence coverave would’ have been immeasur= :
ably more difficult. Since the W's were working under’ ;
an-unusual strain, caused by the simultaneous outbreak of — - Bis

> erises in different parts of the-yorld, their performance
is that mach more to be commended, :

1.) Ploase convey our appreciation to all officers who : ee
had a part in this fine effort. -

Johan Le thet
. 2 Chier,
, » Karepean Division i
— -

f a VIN My — i .

SECRET



{Edward J.
chiél, Inter ipene

MEMORANDUM FOR:

SUBJECT: Weformance of he Intelligence
Watch during: President Ni
recent Visit to Europe :

2 de Dowish) co conned you and cach ueaber of
your staff who participated ia the support which
the Agency was called on to render lo the Presi ‘
dent rly-duriag dts recent (raved abroad. : :
“From several quarters. L have had: verbal exptes-
sions of praise and-commendation and to these I :
wish lo add-my owt in writing, fam enclosing a -
copy of a memevandua trom the Chiel, “European H
Division, whieh reflects bow iy, thoughts and the 5 i
reactions’ T have heard from others. - te i

: 2. L hope you will take appropriate action
so that the perseuier sales of each of yous par-
Licipating offacevs will rotlect Uhis appreciation.
You'may Wisk to make copies of my memorandua and

5 Me. Hart's memorandum to serve this purpose. :

: : POOF de STIvat
Chiet
Foreign Intelligence

Enclosure

CALVIN M, HICKS. oe ot



SECRET,

~ 84 Jun Bea
9 Apri 1969 ‘

vent Fors Secretary, cs7S/section A ee fae oe
SUBJECT. --—s--Recbiriondation for’ the promotion of
Calvin ¥. Hicks * tese36i) te to GS-14 Hee

Ls T reconmend the promotion of subject officer from 68-13 to : ce .
GS-14, Mr, licks has been-assigned to the Intolligence, Natch/FI Staff : ia
ince June 1967, and’ serves.on a rotating schedule with seven other ‘

officers doing identical work, five of whom ere. currently in Grade Co-14. :

2. Mr. Hicks has boon with ™ for dlmost tuo years and his work,

“both quantitatively ond qualitatively haa been concistently of a very

. Mormaiiy ix months ‘are required before an officer newly

high enti

. aasigned to thé Intelligence ‘Watch 4s able to handle e shift by himself,

At least a year is roquired.tefore ‘Watch Officer.can porform at a high
level of proficiency, However, inthe case of this officer, in a little

more thin a year hé had eartied the rating of "Strong" and has mintained

4t ever since. Although mont of his ‘gency expericnce hed been in para=

military operntions, he adapted quickly to the demands of his new assign-

ment, His keenly developéd ‘sense-of operational security, coupled with

his clear understanding of the relationzhip between operations and ;
intelligence, has nede him a‘very fine officer and a valuable agset to .~

Ti. “Re has been under my supervision for 1€ months and I have had anple

opportinity to observe his ‘performance under conditions of stress, He is 2 -
even tempored and level headed. His’ mistakes are few and infrequent and

these are usually of the cleri¢al variety, not in matters of judguent. I

contime to te impressed ‘with his ‘thoroughness in handling information;

with the evidence of his coordinction when the interests of more then one

division are involved. Since operetions have to be submerged and the

intelligence is the portion of the iceberg which shows to the intelligence

communi'y, the performance df tho Vatch Officers is of creat importance.

This factor becomes apparent when it is noted that atout 80; of all cabled

intelligence reports are disseminated by the Intelligence Watch. “ecently

the Vatch Officers were commended by the Chief, FI Stat? and the Chief,

Europe Division for their performance curing the Fresident's trip to

Vestern Europe. The simultaneous outbreak of crises in different parts of

the vorld further added to the burdens of the Watch Office at thet tine. ;
Mr. Hicks made a real contribution during that period ari deserves the

conmendation personally in-a-high degree.

Sebati a sate


Le

ive. peckypoud “in perenilitary operstions beth dn the field and, at

“headquarters... AIL of, Fitness Reports for the six years preceding
his assighient to the Intelligence:Katch have borne the overall rating

of. "strong.". He has been-descrited ss "highly motivated" "sincere and
Sepable." Tie has been further conplinented aa "working vell with others .
‘ahd “his kiowledge an¢ ability are respected." Other supervisors. have
described him as “serious, hard-vorking and dopendable:" His performance
in his present assignment ‘has.denonstrated these sane qualities. He has
nanaged the transition fromiactive operations to the life of a.désk bound
intelligence officer with ease, “I recomend him with enthustess for
promotion to GS-14. :

i

=.
Eéward J. Carroll
Chief, FI/INT/IW

ake

2 © SECRET —


QRANDUM FOR: ° Sccneraay, CSPS/Secrion’A

SUBJECT: RECOMMENDATION ‘FOR THE PRoNCT: ON OF
Cauvin We HICKS’ (056361) ‘to GS=ih

1, lL -Rccommens THe PROMOTION OF SuByEcT oFF:cER FROM GS-13
to GS-1k. Mas Hicks HAS BEEN ASSIGNED. TO THE INTELLIGENCE WarcH/
FI Starr Since Uune 1967, WHCRE HE SCAYES CN A.ROTATING SCHEOULE
WITH SEVEN OTHER OFFICCRS DOING IDENTICAL WORKS FIVE OF WHOM ARE
SURRENTLY IN Grave GS-14,

2. Ma. Hicxs nas ecen witH 1 Fox AdduT 16 NONTHS AKO HIS.
MORK, BOTH GUANTITAVELY AND QUALITATIVELY, “MAS SEEN CONSISTENTLY.
OF VERY HGH CALIGEK. NORMALLY Six MouTHO ARE REGUCRCO BEFORE AN
OFFICER NEWLY ASSIGNED TO THE INTCLLIGENCC WATE TS ABLE TO HANDLE
A SHIFT BY HIMSCLF. AT LEAST A YEAR 1% USUALLY SEQuUiRCO eCFORE &
Man CAN AOWANCE FROM "ADEcuaTE” To "Pecricient." AT PRESENT, My
Hicks FAS ALRCAGY PROGRESSED TO THE RAT/NG oF "StRoNG." He 1s
AND HAS AN GPERAT! SE WHICH 1S Ine
VALUABLE IN THE RANOLING OF INTELLIGENCE. WITH 415 EXTENSIVE
OPERATIONAL ANG PANAMILITARY BACKGROUND, MR. HICNS HAS A FINE
SENSE FOR THE RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN OPERATIONS AND. 1TS PRIMARY
paoDuct, THe Cuanocstine ScaVices INTELLIGENCE REPORT. THIS oF=
FICER HAS BCEN UNDER MY SUPERYIS. CH FOR 1] MONTRS AND DURING THAT
PERIOD 1 HAVE HAG AMPLE OPPORTUNITY TO OSSERVE niS CONDUCT UNDER
CONDITIONS OF STRESS, HE 1S EVEN TeMPCAES AND LeveL MeAoEO. HIS
MISTARES ARE FoW AND INFREGUENT, [AM PARTICCLARLY imPRESSEO
WITH MIS THOROUGHNESS IN HANDLING INFORMATICNS WITH THE EVIDENCE
OF THE COORDINATION WITCH HE SO OFTE: ATICWETS W.TH SCVCRAL AREA
DiViS1ONS WHEN HECESSARY BEFORE O:SoEMINATING A-SEPCAT TO THE
INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY, SiNCE TAL InTZLEreence INFORMATION Re=
PORT 1S THE FACE THAT rnc CUaNocSTINE ScRY:CES Snows TO Tne
TELLIGENCE AMALYE? AKO Tro POLICY OFF
PERFORMANCE OF 7 S18 cr GREAT § asce.” THs.
FACTOR 3 NOTES ThAT ASceT OO PERCENT OF
SAKE D/SSCHINATED BY THE INTELLI=

VERNMENT, THE

CCAS oF Ts

Je Pain to His ASSIGNMENT TO THE
Hicks Savio With WH Division ano with oH
HAS AN EXTENSIVE BACKGROUND IN PARAMILITARY



ASTERS. ALL OF HIS

S PRECESING ars. ASSIGAMeNT TovtsE “INTELL SGence WaTCH

OVERALL “RATING oF "StaoNS." HE nas: BEEN ;

eg'as "HisHuY Nov:Vatea, Sincere AND caeasce.” ALSO,"NE

A OWLTH OTHERS ANS ‘HS snNOWEEOSE- AND AB. CITY ARE RES

MEA SUPERVISQAS DURING THEYEARS <MMCDIATELY PRIOR

F.MAVE 2ESCRISED: MIM AS "SEA.GUS} MARD=WORKING

_ His: PESFORMANSE INNIS PRESENT ASSIGNMENT HAS
NESE SAME GUALITIES. ALTMOUSH ~= MIGHT SEEM SURE

STRAT A MAN OF HIS QUTASOING PERSONALITY With AN EXTENSIVE

2 iN PARAMILITASY OPERATIONS COULD ADWUST TO THE LIFE OF

WAS PRODUCER OF INTELLIGENCE REPORTS, MR. HICKS HAS MANS |

ANSITLON WITH THE GREATEST OF EASE. HE [SA O1STINGT

S OFFICE AND TNE UNDERSIGNED WILL FEEL GRATEFUL LF

s

THe SIX. YE.

MAME BORNE *T

ese

SE TOTERTEND nS TOUR IN THE INTELLIGENCE WaTéM BEM
AL TWO YEARS. 1 RECOMMEND Nim WITS ENTHUSIASM FOR

eee ¢,

ponnerars Pawel,
ASD... CARROLL
Ciscry SL/INT/IW

ATTACHNENT



aS ee : oes ae 5 Apaie 1968 ‘ :

ue _ MEMORANDUM FOR: ‘Secrctany, CSPS/Secri‘on: A : peter c
: . OD .  BuBYEC RECOMMENDATION FORTHE PRoMoTiON OF weld
2 7 : ‘ Catven We HICKS (056361).to GS-14 : od

1. FRECOMMEND THE PROMOTION oF SUBECT oFFIcEHF RON GS-13
To GS-1, Mz. Hicks HAS. BEEN’ ASSIGNED TO THE. INTELLIGENCE WATCH, © wee
i FI Stare since June 1967 WHERE HE SERVES ON A ROTATING SCHEDULE .
(WITH SEVEN OTHER- OFFICERS DOING IDENTICAL WORK, FIVE. GF WHOM ARE

CURRENTLY IN GRAOE GS-14, :

2. ALTHOUGH MR. Hicks HAS BEEN WITH IW LESS THAN A YEAR,
° HIS WORK BOTH: QUANTITATIVELY AND QUALITATIVELY. 15 OF ‘VERY HIGH :
CALIBER. HE 1S ALERT AND CONSCIENTIOUS AND NEVER TAKES THE EASY
WAY. OUT IN’HANOLING CABLEO FIELD INTELLIGENCE REPORTS. LoG CARDS
WHICH RECORD THE ACTION TAKEN ON EACH REPORT INDICATE THE SERIOUS@
NESS WITH WHICH HE APPROACHES HIS DAILY TASKS. THESE CARDS
- FREQUENTLY INDICATE. TIME SPENT BY HIM IN CONSULTATION WITH AS MANY
“AS THREE ARCA-DIVISTONS ON OCCASION BEFORE ISSUING A REPORT WHICH
WILL BE DISSEMINATED TO’ THE INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY. THE EXERCISE
/ OF GOG0..JUDGMENT 1S AN ESSCNTIAL CLEMENT IN THE: PRUPER FUNCTION=
ING OF THIS OFFICE, UPON WHICH THE AGENCY'S REPUTATION TO A
: __ GERTAIN EXTENT DEPENDS. SINCE THE FIISHED INTELL! GENCE “I NFORMAS
eee TION REPORT 1S THE FACE THAT THE CLANDESTINE SERVICES SHOWS TO
2 THE INTELLIGENCE. ANALYSTS. "AND THE POLICY OFFICERS OF THI'S GOVERNS
MENT, THE “PERFORMANCE OF THE WATCH'OFFICERS 1S OF PARAMOUNT
IMPORTANCE. THIS FACTOR BECOMES EXTREMELY OBVIOUS WHEN ONE NOTES
“rHat more THAN GO% OF ALL CABLED INTELLIGENCE REPORTS ARE 0ISSEH=
SNATEO BY THE INTELLIGENCE WATCH,

3. PRIOR TO HIS ASSIGNMENT To THE INTELLIGENCE WarcH, Mite
Hicks scaveo with THe Wi Division ANO wiTH THE CuBAN OPCRATION.
He HAS AN EXTENSIVE BACKGROUND IN PARAMILITARY OPERATIONS BOTH
* AN THE FIELD AND AT HEADQUARTERS. ALL oF M18 Fitness RepoaRTs
FOR THE SIX YEARS PRECCOING HIS ASSIGNMENT TO THE INTELLIGENCE
“WATCH HAVE BORNE THE OVERALL RATING OF “Stronc.” He HAS BEEN
DESCRIBED AS "HIGHLY MOTIVATED, SINCERE AND CAPABLE. if

Atso, "He
WORKS WELL WITH OTHERS AND W118 KNOWLCOGE AND ABILITY ARE RE~ i
SPECTED.” OTHER SUPERVISORS DURING THE YEARS 1MMCOIATELY RIOR

TO THIS ASSIGNNENT HAVE DESCRIBED HIM AS "SERIOUS, HARO-WORKING z

AND OCPENOADLE." HIS PERFORMANCE IN HIS PRESCNT ASSIGNMENT HAS

sy oa
fichied | coastal
donk at
essen

_ SECRET



~ RECENT. Tet OFFENSIVEIN

SECRET ce

“PAGE 2

Paomorron RecoumtwoaTion = Caevin Ws Hicks (conti nuco)

DEMONSTRATED THE sae QUALI Ties HERES he HAS. VOLONTARI LY: conta =”

BUTED EXTRA TIME OURING CRISIS, $iTUATIONS,: NOTABLY OURING, THE
ETNAM WHEN HE CAME IN ON SEVERAL” OCCAH |
SIONS TWo HOURS BEFORE H1S SHIFT WAS OUC TO START AND RCMAINES ”
AFTER ITS APPOINTED TERMINATION, “ALTHOUGH IT MIGHT ScEM SURPRISS °

“ANG THAT A MAN OF HIS OUT=GOING PERSONALITY, WITH. ANCEXTENSI VE

BACKGROUND IN PARAMILITARY OPERATIONS COULD ADJUST TO THE LIFE OF

A DESK=BOUNO PRODUCER. OF INTELLIGENCE REPORTS, Ma. HICKS HAS MAN=

AGED THE ADJUSTMENT .WiTH THE GREATEST OF EASE. HE 15 A OISTINGT
ASSET TO THIS. OFFICE AND THE UNOCASIGNED WILL FEEL GRATEFUL IF
ME SHOULD DECIOE TO, EXTEND HIS TouR IN THE BNTELLIGENCE WaTCA
BEYOND FHE NORMAL TWO YEARS. | RECOMMEND HIM WITH ENTHUSIASM

FOR PROWGTION TO GS=1h, |

Yee et

EDWARD J CARROLL
Corer, FI/INT/IW

ATTACHMENT

I heartily endorse this recommendation that Mr. Hicks be:
promoted to GS-14, As his'supervisor points out, Mr. Hicks,
when he came to the Intelligen¢e Watch, was essentially a
querrilla warfare field. operational afficer. Positive intelll-
gence information reporting and the handling of reports were
new to him, and called for professional skills and other
qualities radically different from those which most of his
previous exyerience had brought into play. Yet in a relatively
short time, Mr. Hicks has.devéloped the skills required of a
Watch Officer, and thanks. to this and to other strengths has
become one of the most valuable cfficers in the unit.

ae
: Wallace R. Deuel
t Chief FI/INT

‘SECRET =~



: “24 Ocroore 198

Scenctanty CSPS/Scetron, &

SUBJECT: |. RéeémicndAtion FoR THE PkoMoT+oN OF
E *  Cauvin We HICKS (056361) re GS-14

T. 1 RECOMMEND THE-PROMOTION OF 'SubyccT OFFICER FROM GS-13.
t0.GSa14, Mr. Hicks Has BEEN ASSiGNCO To THE INFeLLIGeNce WarcH/:
Fi Starr since Juve 1967; wHere He SCARVES ON A ROTATING SCHEDULE
WITH SEVEN OTHER OFFICERS DOING IDENTICAL WORK; FIVE OF WHOM ARC

CURRENTLY 1N GRADE GS=14, 7

2. Me. Hicks was seen with IW roa asouT 16 MONTHS ANO HS.
WORK, BOTH QUANTITAVELY ANO QUALITATIVELY, MAS BEEN CONSISTENTLY
OF VERY HIGH CALIGER. :NORMALLY SiX MONTHS ARE REQUIRED BEFORE AN
CFFICER NEWLY ASSIGNED TO THE INTEL CZ WATCH 1S ABLE TO HANDLE
A SHIFT BY HIMSELF. . AT LEAST A YEAR 1S USYALLY REQUIRED BEFORE A
MAN CAN ADVANCE FROM “Aocauate” to "PscricienT." AT PRESENT, Mae
Hicks HAS ALREADY PROGRESSEO To tue aaTinG oF "STRONG." HE 1S
ALERT ANO CONSCIENTIOUS. ANO HAS AN CPESATIONAL SENSE WHICH 1S INo
VALUABLE IN THE HANOLING OF INTELLIGENGE. WITH HIS EXTENSIVE
“OPERATIONAL ANO PARANILITARY BACKGROUND, Ma, HICKS HAS A FINE
SENSE FOR THE RCLATIONSHIP BETWEEN OPERATIONS ANO ITS PRIMARY
paoueT, THE CLANDESTINE SERVICES INTELLIGENCE ACPORT. THiS cF=
FICER HAS BEEN UNOZA-MY SUPERVISION FOR 1] MONTHS AND OURING THAT
PERIO0 | HAVE HAD ANPLE OPPCATUN:TY To CBSERVE HIS CONGUCT UNDER
EONOITIONS OF STRESS, HE 15 GVEN TENPERED AND LEVEL HEADED. His

ISTAKES ARE FEW AND INERCQUENT. | AN PARTICULARLY IMPRESSED
WITH HIS THOROUGHNESS IN HANDLING. INFORMATIONS WITHTHE EVIDENCE
OF THE COORDINATION WiiCH He SO OF ENPTS WITH SEVERAL ARCA
QVVISIONS WHEN NECESSARY BEFORE DiSSE¥.NATING A REPORT TO THe
INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY, SINCE THE IATSLEIGENCE INFORMATION RE=
BORT 13. THE FACE THAT THe Coancest Ne s CCS SHOWS TO ThE INe
TERLIGENCE ANALYST AND THE POL.cY OF of THE COvERNMENT, THE
HERFORWANCE OF THE WATCH OFFICERS 13 OF oumpoarances This

FACTOR BECONCS APPARENT “WEN ONE NOTES TeAT “aGoUT CO PERCENT oF

ALL CABLED INTELLIGENCE REPORTS ARC OD. reo ay vez INTEUU=
ce WATCH.
3. Prior To His AssiaNnes ne INTELU:GeNce Warn, Ms
Hicas seaveo with Wa Divisio: a tre Cosan OPERAT On He
ARY OPERATIONS 89TH IN

HAS AN EXTENSIVE BACAGROUN



3

PRomov:on Recésiwenparion = Cacvién W. Hiens (coutinco) > Pace. 2

THE FLELO AND AT, HEADQUARTERS. ALL oF HIS Furness RePoaTe: FoR
THE SUX YEASS PRECEOING HIS ASSIGNMENT To THE IIs Pictnce WatcH
HAVE BONNE THE OVERALL RATING oF "SrKoNG.” “He HAS OCEN i
DESCRIBED AS "HIGHLY MOTIVATED, SINCERE “AND CAPABLE." ALSO, "HE
WORKS WELL WITH OTHERS AND HIS KNOWKEOSE ANO ABILITY ARE REO
SPCCTCO."” OTHER SUPERVISORS CURING THE YEARS iMMEOIATELY PmOR
TD THES ASSIGNNENT HAVE DESCRIBLO AIM AS “SERIOUS, HARD-WORKING
AND DEPCNOABLE." His PERFORMANCE EN HIS PRESENT ASSLGHMCHT HAS.
DEMONSTRATED THESE SAME QUALITICS, ALTHOUGH IT MIGHT SCCM SUR=
PRISING THAT A MAN OF HIS OUT<GOING PERSONALITY WiTH “AW CATENSIVE
BACKGROUND IN PARAMILITARY OPCRATIONS COULD ADJUST TO THE LIFE OF
A DESK“SOUND PRCUUGER OF INTELLIGENCE RCPORTS, MR, HICKS HAS MAN®
AGEO THIS TRANSITION WITH THE GSCATCST oF cASE, He 18 A o1sTINeT
ASSCT TO THIS OFFICE AND THE UNOEASIGNED WILL FEEL GRATEFUL IF

HE -SHOULO O£CIOE TO EXTEND HIS TOUR iN THE INTELLIGENCE WaTcH ace.
YON THE NORMAL TWO YEARS. 1 REGONMEND HIM WITH’ ENTHUSIASM FOR
promotion to GS-14, :

EDWARD ye ARROLL
Cures FI/INT/IW

ATTACHMENT



LING OF. THIS OFFIEE, UPON WHICH THE AGENCY'S REPUTATION TO A

Po gegen Se ci

Z : : ee : : eee :
: 5 Apaie 1963"

Sécneran¥, CSPS/Scériow A i

SUBJECT: -. RECOMMENDATION FOR THe PROHOTION OF :
Carvin We HICKS (056361) ro GS-14 rae

Js. 4 RECOMMEND THE PROMOTION OF SUBJECT OFFI cLHFRON GS-13
To GS=14.° Ma. Hicks HAS CEN ASSIGNED To THE INTELLIGENCE WATCH,
FI Starr since June 1967 wHere HE SCAVES ON A ROTATING SCHCOULE
WITH SEVEN OTHER OFFICERS DOING IDENTICAL WORK, FIVE OF WHOM ARE :

CURRENTLY #N GRADE GS-14, E :

2. ALrWouc MR. Hicks HAS BEEN WeTH IW LESS THAN A-YEAR,
HIS WORK BOTH QUANTITATIVELY AND QUALITATIVELY 1S OF VERY MiGH
CALIER, He 15 ALERT ANO CONSC!ENT/OUS AND NEVER TAKES THE CASY
WAY OUT IN HANOLING CABLED: FIELO INTELLIGENCE REPORTS. LoG CARDS
WHICH RECORD THE ACTION TAKEN ON EACH REPORT INDICATE THE SCRIOUS=
HESS WITH WHICH HE APPROACHES HIS! GAILY TASKS.” THESE CARDS
FACQUENTLY IHOICATE TIME SPENT BY, HIM 1M CONSULTATION WITH AS NANY ‘
AS THRCE AREA DIVISIONS ON OCCASION DEFORE ISSUING A REPORT WHICH
WILL BE DISSEMINATED To THE INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY, .THE EXERCISE
OF GOOD JUDGMENT 1S AN CSSENTHAL ELEMENT 1N THE PROPER FUNCTION=

CERTAIN EXTENT DEPENDS. SINCE THE FINISHED INTELLIGENCE INFORMA=
TION REPORT 1S THE FACE THAT. THE CLANDESTINE SERVICES SHOWS To
THE INTELLIGENCE ANALYSTS AND THE POLICY OFFICERS OF THIS GOVERN=
MENT, THE PERFORMANCE OF .THE WATCH OFFICERS 18 OF PARAMOUNT
IMPORTANCE. THIS FACTOR BECOMES EXTREMELY OBVIOUS WHEN ONE NOTCS
THAT More THAN GO% OF ALL CABLED INTELLIGENCE REPORTS ARE O1SSCM=
INATED BY THE INTELLIGENCE WATCHS

3. PRIOR To HIS ASSIGNMENT TO THE INTELLIGENCE WATCH, MRy
Hicks serveo WITH THE WH O1viSiON ANO WITH THE CUBAN OPERATION.
He HAS AN EXTENSIVE BACKGROUND IN PARAMILITARY OPERATIONS BOTH
IN THE FLELO AND AT HEADQUARTERS. ALL oF M15 Fitness Reports
FOR THE SIX YEARS PRECEOING HIS ASSIGNMENT To THE INTELLIGENCE
WATCH HAVE BORNE THE OVERALL RATING oF "STRONG." HE HAS 8CEN cee
DESCRIBED AS "HIGHLY MOTIVATED, SINCERE AND CAPABLE.” ALSO, "HE
WORKS WELL WITH OTHERS AND. HIS KNOWLEDGE AND ABILITY ARE RE=
SPECTED.” OTHER SUPERVISORS DURING THE YEARS IMMEDIATELY PRIOR
TO THIS ASSIGNMENT HAVE DESCRIBED HIM AS "SERIOUS, HARD-WORKING
ANO OEPENOABLE."” HiS-PERFORMANCE IN HIS PRESENT ASSIGNMENT HAS

SECRET



SECRET

Promotion Recommenoatton = Calvin We Hicks’ (continueo) “Pace 2

“SANE QUACi TITS HERE. He MAS’ VOLUNTARILY ConTAy = : : :
Ouro .CxTAA, TIMC ‘DURING! CRISIS SiTUATTONS, NOTABLY OUKIHE THe > ° - ae

ALTHOUGH “IT MIGHT “SEEM SURPRIS-.
J ONG PERSONALITY WITH AN EXTENSIVE
BACKGROUND IN PARAMILITARY OPERATIONS COULD ADJUST. TO THE LIFE OF
A DESK=BOUND PRODUCER OF INTELLIGENCE REPORTS, -MR, HiCKS HAS HARA
AGED THE ADJUSTMENT WITH THE GREATCST oF CASE, HE 13 & DISTINCT
ASSET.TO THIS OFFICE AND THE UNDERSIGNED WiLL FEEL GRATEFUL IF
HE SHOULD DECIDE TO EXTEND’HIS TOUR IW THE INTELLIGENCE WATCH
BEYOND THE NORMAL TWO YEARS. iy RECOMMEND HIM WITH ENTHUSIASM

FOR PROMOTION To GS~1h,

Q wre

Cenk JO
EDWARD J. CARROLL
CHier, FI/INT/IW

ArtAcument

T heartily endorse this' recommendation that Mr, Hicks be 7
promoted to GS-14. ‘As his supervisor points out, Mr. Hicks, .
when he came to the Intelligence: Watch, was essentially a ‘i '
guerrilla warfare field operational officer... Positive intelli-
~ gencé information reporting! and the handling of reports were
new to‘him, -and éalled for professional skills and other
qualitles radically different from those which most of his
previous experience had-brought into play. Yet in a relatively
short time, Mr, Hicks has developed the skills required af a
Watch Officer, and thanks to this and to other strengths has
becoihe one of the most valuable officers in the unit...

Hel brcsae WCC
‘ Wallace R, Deuel
Chief FI/INT

cece


Toate recranto.

29° May 1967

3, CALVIN He

3 A PARTICIPANT IN THE

TIS AUMORTY Camp ind be Oe

PL 88-643 Sect. 208

___wisumneron, t D.C.

AT CARREE SERVICE DESIGNATION

3a GASSINCATION SOMEOUE TOR, FAL od

1S Occupatvowas Stas

“AF Satan On mate

$

Te avo OF Caen SERGE PROT GHC [OAT TOO

{PACE BROW OR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

fa tancor [ay onet con
co

[este oF ease

Tomine mera

Excrry
weit

jar cortttion caniticaion

-| Jeeta
on
“© 1 [£00 Data >|

[ie tar cao [ae aa] ar am

are “|?

cove [ junta [stair ms COOP

‘Paivius conieentet sinvace Ta

cy at

ee ren wees
a ser

ua
scat mess ma » vs
ana SN aoe Ta Yu

coro

ram
me

“5, PORTION CONTROL GERTCATION

F6-G2-O) KA

Pan 1S2 use eeevous eosnon ar

ore
a

jSee momo signed by
PéPors datos 1 {UN



‘secret

: aie : Lethe Talal tat 7 ae :

rae "Toate rateacto

REQUEST For: PERSONNEL "ACTION 2 May 3967

Thermo
056361. ittcks, Calvin
a oe oa ATR
feat

=e viowe
J rm.”

erov
7 Oniandai nas BtooNaNM
DpP/FI STAFF - < CHS eratiertacniet te
Intelligence Group

Tatelligence Watch ;

wee

11 PORiRON Pie TTF reine ne 15 Cane Bt OSE aTION
Watch Officer _ fF} | dose DB :
fa Gor wo Sr Po

Ta, CLASSIPNCATION SCHIDINE (G5, 1B, ce.) [¥9. OCCUPATIONAL SE8it5

cs 0132.07 BX ie

ere yi

oor
Heaostened from:’ DDP/WH/Bronch 3/Colombia Section, Position No. 1359,

' Cost Center No. gece :
29! cole)

Fesled

Concur:

me rs

Soeurity Aart

(ey phone)
rs
Dighetbution:
ig. - C9P9/B 1 - FI/Pera 1 - Security 2 - Payroll

Tae SIGNATURE OF CAREER SERVICE APPHOVINS CHNCER

Vas SiGNATURE OF REGUISTING OFA

i Usi_oF] tHE Onrice OF punsonnt el
re are Ts cin ca vain Tn cue wae To ito

erica

By seraaton [oi coeition GaxeuaTion Dark a siuert [34 sor
Tene eye ae

4
om cour oot [a,c arco Hedi ate st ocak Het Wo
mo. ea we fem Piss [eooe [coat Tor eama [react ws. cOoe
L_{eame ins

35 wr rata
jeoor, —[o-woat

isn
2107.
VIOUS CIVITAN GOVERNWENT SERVICE

@umat fo ‘oaa tw our cy ‘sa Tar eae
cont [eoce — [xo. tax wnenoiions [votm executeo Com ere rote
tens

Samat SURE (MOR TA 2 EAE

TS Position CONTROL CERTINCATION

From
ye 1-6) ow wit

ST? ar maw enon SECRET.”



REQUEST FOR PERSONNE ACTION
: : sebeeecaece

" seenet

and savatoas Mlle)

21 APRIL 67°

U” nicks, CALVIN W, Le

TREAT OF Emr OVEN

“REGULAR

(GM ACIMONY
cone)

Jope/wi <<
BRANCH '3-*.”
‘COLOMBIA SECTION

WASHINGTON, D.C,

‘ 17 FOuTn AE

‘pean re To Coase ance BebmaTo

od
74358 + i

16 GRADE AND STEP

1304

OF JHE_OFFICE OF PEESSNNEL

a
cont

pate

east

SLs hes!

mae

[conic

Te on Ga an 17 tox Cour

Bue arcane

Fe. way ASE Soci Sen

cory

Towarnat [reat ok C008
i lB

Bh PeeOUS CMTS

=

‘iat ta oar

C08 [ono Peres amt it
Fg dankars

PRE es aw 9 may
(feat 8 ede SS

BED MSZ use wevces enrow



SECRET

; 7 April 1967
MEMORANDUM FOR: Calvin W, Hicks’
h VIA : WH/REO

SUBJECT : Records Officer Appointment

1. In accordance with a request received fren your component,
coe yous are hereby appointed a Records Officer in the Clandestine
A : fervices. Your functions are descrjbed, in simmary, in CSI 43-1,
Para. 4.b.(3). You have also participated in a-training course
in which these functions were reviewed in some detail.

2.- The essence of, your appointment is that you. now occupy
"> & position of trust in which you are expected to drsw on your
~ knowledge and experience to exercise responsible .aci sound
Judgment ‘in building and maintaining a professionilly useful
records system in the'Clandestine Services. You sre, at the
3 eame time, expected to train and guide others within your com-
nae ponent in these respects.

3. A-copy of this memorandum will be placed in your official

fobath dpe

PETER D. Dt
DDP Records Management C¥icer

i

Personnel File of Addressee

a
8

: : Sour I 3

H i Excluded roz automatic :
dowzgrsiing and

SECRET declessification



» Secret

Whe deed ted

1966

-REQUESTFOR’ PERSONNEL ACTION

Mae (anh

eer mate

056361 NICKS, CALVIN W,

7 waTutt OF ESAT ACTION.

REASSIGNMENT

iow aa Ee
mace > xyrer =
crow # goo

[7235 0628-
Raia MESS i een tori sano :
BRANCH 9 7 ee Snore ect erer certs
COLOMBIA SECTION = +s. . WASHINGTON, ‘D.C,

Pv rome 17 Poston anet - ~_[19 CAMtu@ SannCE CTSIORATON

1 | ops OFFICER v2) “fo assa ST]
(serena sour THAT a Gas aor
31 os ali ois6so1 7 | a3 4 | sa zig

FROM: DDP/WH/BRANCH 3/LIMA SECTION/1392 :

PRA IN ACCORDANCE WITH HR 20-17 ¢ (d)

foaTt Sango [rad SGoATURE Cr Cantte StEWICL APPROVING OFFER [OATE SGHMO

Chal
obo Motbbl aA eC, feds

Te [wae J Se Taf a [se 8 [ea
a a Pa Ls

ar as nT oe

oF | TE AS" / Yor jal Se 3 Jj jor 24 tt |
Sams > AG ne on SES eR i ae
rn 7 : a P
7 basa : we fare at EOO DATA te
ete | BE :
Be site Cour, cat [a7 tone Cone Gass GT ered Soca wast na
Fan a a eee]
i a
WI _PeMOUS CivitiaN GOVERNMENT @ ant at fe eatin as ate « Sattar oath
10 Paros mt (+ ream niacuna “coor mo tae introns [rem ENCES [cone [ra sail evar cove]
rete ie \- .
dina 3 an : ae 4
Seren ss cag Soe
ee DATE APPROVED:

5 Wain Cena GTTTON we OF wow

G- De LE N

SIT T1S2 ewe memous eomon SECRET

Ls

he

oy



SECRET '

dol tah

Wye

056361. a uy gh, CALNAN

T mate OF PSR a

Cosrery

» REASSIGNUE
: 7 -[vrow:
Jo ruse > ed aha

arov

9 ORC AEATORAL DESMAN
pop /wit.~

BRANCH 3 L
LIMA SECTION. ©

FY Casita Hee OFAN

—D.
fy saan On tare

(13)
ia ciadsiicaricn seououte (a TR. aa) rn

~0136.01~

a

a 1992
Seturaiooa TRS i CuDt And a

13d

$1a21z

S_
sy =
FROM: DDP/W/CS & DEV
MR, HICKS TS REPLACING

1 = FENANCE
1 = SECURITY

comp/9997

Sedunty BE

: pre IS BEING REASSIGNED,

ay

_lztles
7) bial

DATE SERED Tap SCHAtUet Gr CARER SteviCt apraOvineG OFMCER

SPR ane von aussie

ie

ES

sf OF Toi omet oF aazoue

ae aol [aan
| teat”

aor

on [at COMMA

cx

1) soci sue aD

‘ona ar one

CT tit ia ae

us civauan coveenmint saauice |
= 4

Zoot Two, Fan aon

rota ‘fee

tens
rae

OF O8 OG #

[RIS NIS2 use extwious tortion

~ SECRET oe



Tot 4 SECRET

so tit hee ed tot

feat vara.

210 Septenbar. 1965

F CACON OF tO

Washington, Do

Ti a 5 Gat ee oa

ARE Foe 7 D

is“ occuraronat Sumas [1, Géabe AND StF 7 Saar Ona
| 0136.01 13:(b)- $13,938

fore rry

Prom DDP/W/20, MOB, PM Seo, , L105
Subject 19 enrolled in extensive languag: gesting)

Ne
Res

i

trating from Septenber 1965: to January, ig

ht caran
~

"Tar iain
om

fig =

AL esc1y

em vies Fae ET

cat OAT

i = !

[7/ 108 | ine
ia fe

bows
3 ve reine (6 sity Cop ox [7 tone cow om [an cua ntsc War woe oR “ose sete nD
coe ema feo bee] mo oa va furtiw — [eoce [coor Jorvame pram ma cont
tn i ronnie | te
scien { Ll !
a ‘CWO Gontennde? Seeet Dare wunal [3s ‘pee aa bata w sa
(oat. omemigunepesce [no Tak exemonons

008 Top erwa.s eet

per) a SE Previous Eamon



eretrrs

056362

jadtey

nuwen [2 Nast (Uant Pr

"REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION

iIckS, Calvin W

SECRET ° :

(then Filled tay

Tare pReranee

3 Yay 1962

~ RATURE OF PERSONNEL ACTION - |

FROMOTION

. FuNiOS.

>

Urea autwomity (Ce
Otlice ot Pe

DDP
Task

Paranilitary Bench

a ey
~ ORGAWETATIOWAL DESIGNATIONS.

Forca W

VO. LOcaT TON OF OFFICEAL

Neshingto:

‘starion

Ta. CAREER SERVICE DESIGNATION

Position vine

[ie ponition wusatn

ons

7

D

OFS OFFICER |
a, ELAB317TGaTHOW SONEQULE (08, LB, ate) [19 GecuPATIONA Tenade ano ater [W0. Satany ow wate
6s @) 0136,01 BQ) 920,635:

V8. Rewamns

Recommondation and Fitness Report proviously sutmitted,

ag We 10: Fire isin = Te

SPACE RELOW FOX FA

DATE biGnco

Lusi

Usk oF aif OEFICE oF vi

%

Vee. SIGNATURE OF CARFER SE] Zul BPROVING
aresers
grera 2a ete

DATE S1GneD

Tae
coe

pL

poe pT
‘oot

10

wan Ca

Feat
ror

Sey era
et

Ey

Pa

{Ate ae ol

Femi Tame

ae Wi
oan

ot

Bor

Batra

FON DATA>|

Bi wee en acD

reas Pun

fant

forrest

ws nT

Vio GoviNwLWT sCenE OAT



SUBJECT ct Recossizndation for’ Promotion to Grade 65613:

a ee
28 August 1961

MEMORANDUM POR: ‘Secretary, cs/Cs Patel (soetton-B)

our. calvin We Hicks

1. Te ta a that Calvin W. Micks be promoted

> from Grade GS-12 to-Grade GS-13 in recognition of Kis outstand-
ing performance as a member of SMATE Project.

2. Mr. Hicks was asaigned to IMATE Project in Octobér 1960

“a8 ‘an, operations officer in thé Paremilitury Section, His years

of ‘Agency experience and warled “operat Lonal assignments enabled
him‘to immediately take hold and perform the many functions
required.in the Paramilitary Operations Section in a most .uut-
standing wanner.. This included recruitment, training, briefing,
debriefiny and in-exfLltration of agents; supervision of the
infiltration of ‘supplics and bodies by eir for tha Paramilitary
Operations Section; case officer for certain high level agents
and their W/T operators inside the ‘target area, Mr. Nicks’ maturity,
common sense and varied experience enabled him to operate with
the minimum of suparvision, Ne trained certain agents in trades
eraft, air and maritime reception, mapping, end guerrilla warfare
with the result that those ageate received the only completely  -
successful air drops. In addition, eome of these agenta handled
and trained by Mr. Hicks became our most trusted and importaut.
agenta, and a large measure of thelr willingness to go on after
continued frustrations was duc to their respect for, and trust
and confidence in, Mr: Kicks.

3. Mr. Hicks hag continuously demonstrated the ability
to perform duties in a higher grade. He has the leadership,
maturity, common sense, stability, and ability to make decisions
and to operate with mininxm supervision so necessary to senior
officers in the Agency. - He is agyreasive and capable of fighting
for his views; at the ssme time he will listen to advice and
once @ decision has been handed down, will give it his full
support even though he might hava opposed it before the
decision wea made.

wiey Lil ¥
= SECneT *


EVES

yan ‘Agency. staff. aupigfas ‘aince
ted in November 1956. Hots

on doing 60-in an outstanding manner

“Ther fora, 16 1s strongly xécosmended ~
‘that Mr. Hicks be promot od to Grade GS-13 at the earliest
date. -

J, C, “KING
Chief
Western Hemisphere Division



SECRET

ten FAUT ad tay

REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION

Taye ParPaBED

10” August. 196)
=e (esas ts

Waters apeay Pio mies Testctrer Baap
osex6r FICNS, Calvin We

7 WATURE OF PERSONNEL ACTION

Gani TAT lOWAL DESTONAT IONS

DDP/dH, Divn,
Branch

Paramilitary Sec, aWashs,’D.

" a . . rears : \ vo" par
REASSIGNMENT and. Trgnsfer to Vouchered|-2 [20 [wit
= > ae ae ae 7 GER ene. comets 1 rca tape eganleted OF
7 X Jer tov | fer to.er 2635=5000-8021
5 Tre We,"Gocat iow oF orFiciau FraviON

Ce

Postriow FiTuE

OPS OFFICER (D)

ia oné
Cupatiomac sentts |

cs (Ee 22 (4)

Ta. post tron -NoMoce

ar apaar ane ore Ph

em CONTROL WO,

Ta. Canteen seavece]
DeSiCHATION

‘ia 0136301

“Proms DDPAVH, Br. 4, Vnass.

(22)

an

Tiere
cose

ete

1__.
To. O.F. APPHOWAL



eee «SECRET
gt ypen ited int :
Gate Params

REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION” a7 Getobse 1960

T Seeiat wonwew | Bs NMOL GhadpoRerbec

7
$5636. © HICSS, Calvin Ww

+ NATURE oF PERSONAEL ACTIES 3. CATEGORY CF EWPLOVWERT

ast

(TEXPORARY)
: UT Ie |TY Teonplored by

vrow Eo ae (Otnies af petvoenel)
é cree

rrr perry sy : THe tecatvos oF ore ictae STATIN

DBP AMG Division
Branch § WASHINGTON, D.C.

+ PosaTies tATeE z [res sosirvow Sumee [re pew covrnot no] v3. cartin senvice|
q : pestonarion
2 : Becesed D

CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (GS, LF, ete.) | 15, OCCUPATIONAL SERIES [16, GRADE AND STEP Tar Sauany om PATE

gs : [36 2 (3) 1 95

*UPON TERMINATION CF TEIS TEMPORARY ‘ASSIGNVENT YOU WILL BE REASSIGNED AS THE,
BRAD OF YOUR CARSSR SERVICE BIRECTS.

Pry CycIG~0) Cia

i “SUGNATURE OF CAREER SERVICE APPROVING OFFICER

|

EG. one a Omeier - pe ce
22

OF THE OPRICE OF VERSONNEL

GS. POENTIOW CONTROL CERTIFICATION a6_O:P. APPROVAL TF 7

a ut zf6e i

pac bidus teaver > ~ SECRET ~ aa

tasza.


re: Nave Confuse Ms

HtcKs CALVIN-W. ae
3 [?. CSC Or Cibo Leasl Scthonty

14. Organizational Dengaations

mel Pe

SCA_403 3 aid
PREVIOUS ASSIGNMENT

Cade 15. Lecation OF Olhcial Stowon

IODP NEA i
SOUTH ASIA GRANCH :
5045. 55504

16. Dept. -Freld 117. Postion Title: TePoation NS.) 19. Serv. [O, Ozeup. Senet

a :
jUSild ~ & u |
ert: |g S/GUERILLA WAR OFF : , 812 tas. 0136.19
i21. Grads &'Step {$8 Sclary Or Rate [* co) E Grade 193. FSi Dow | 5. Apprspnation Munters

, Bo. Yr. | Ma Ye cee
1243 |S g699 CLT 51 om 18 156 | -115-159 19° 3373 02 175
action ©? 44 6

27. Nawure Cf Action i Code Pete 9. Tpe OF Employee [Sek . Separation Dare

REASSICHMSNT AXMXCTRAERERE) | : ‘ REGULAR. PS |

&7 _|yo ica-i60.|." S25,
; ‘PRESENT. ASSIGNMENT.

51. Grgamzotional Dengrations 7] todo.) Se Locauoa Of Olle Slaton

poe /xs 3 fae i

cs/cs DEVELOPMENT: tania ai WASHINGTON, D.C.”

; ; "_h8 :

$5 Dont Feld 130 Peon Wile To. Peay AP a [Some Come os
Ustid | 2. | SHARK GUERILLA WAR OFF 8. 5| oS | 9236.14

sas fs OTS

Fron sd
38. Grade & Stoo! 39. Salary Or Rate

147, Dee Ol Grads

40. 3D

TITY, Appropniion Naber
5
ii
DOG ae

| Lec - Finance

A Refiae GNezprAn
Ow
[B._Far Additional Inisematy
| xS672
NCES

[Clearance] Signatare Clearance. Se Date
fA. Coreor Board GC OEE D, Placenent
B. Pos. Contrat PRird Eg
IC. Classification IF. Aporoved By
Penarts Pes RETRRNCE fe

2 ce ~ Security Subject avatting reassignzent



* SECRET

Lchin Frtted-tay \

LF. f

[eave Avo RELATIONSHIP OF OCPENDEAT™
Lisa malaria

Me: tonsillectom

HICKS, Calvin W. idau.
a ison.

There is on file in the Casualty Affairs Branch, Bénefits and Casualty
Division, Office of Personnel, an Official Disability Claim File cn the

above named employee (or his dependent®) for an illness, injury, or

death incurred on _ April 1960 7

This notice should be filed in the employee’s Official Personnel Folder

asa permanent cross-reference to the Official Disability Claim File.

Date OF noTiee SUGNATURE OF CD AUPOESEATATIVE

: : , \-
10 Aug 60 wa NG eee
NOTICE: ¥ OFFICIAL DISABILITY CLAN. FILE

TORTOTE vse recvicus votvess SECRET rere




om Tatel les and releases

ty for the CS excecit 9 their delivery by electrical
rtain Fup Cables.

ery, in his judgment, regarding

ity or the info and toe ensure acvguate protection of saurces and
ng policy levels.

ication staterent in intel. cables and deletes any
distribution is made. “Effects distrisution;
ict_nced to know basis.

ront en the céneral and special requirenents of custoner agencte
the Laite House for cabled info, i.e., info en narcotics, hijacking,

ir
pretection of U.S. and fore dignitaries, etc,

After hours, crants clearances (in consuYtation with responsible area division)
for the use of disserod CS information in finished intel publications in a
rination controls
ES geod werking relations not cnly with BOP area divister
and staff, but with Signal Center and Cable Secretariat at all levies to
expedite the disson of significant reports; works closely with CSOs and SDs to
e:

Keep one_ani

dunay

‘ent which wast eccurstely rellects hus lovel of pettormsn

SECRET



f “En April. 1972 he
Fececnition and as “yrest of the liigh-estcen
Clandestine Service,
ly valuable’ during this reportiita period
7 the strict maintenance .of operational is
gence. informition. fr. Hicks has been ins
struncntal ‘in’ re in the opinion of IW officers, the authens
tication. stateriant. and the hanner dn which ‘the:report is writtcn would help to pinpofat
the source of thé inforisation if the resort fell in unauthorized hands. Mr. Nicks! .
notations on the IW log cards which recird the action taken on each report indicate the | |
rseriousness fn which Mr. Hicks énproaches his daily tasks and his contributions in
réninding Divisional personnel. abcut the esséitial elements of good reporting and the
need to comply with the prescribed format.

The exercise of good judanent in referring or consulting onan Intel Cable rrfor to

its di¢serination to the Intelligence Coswunity is an essential element in the proper
functioning of tiis office and uy on which depends to acer ‘tain extent the Agency's
reputation. -

With the retirement and reassignzent of several IW officers during this reporting
period, Hr. Hicks is now the IM officer with the most experfence and continuity the
job. This together with his maturity of judgment and abil to withstand the rig
ivity, make Mr. Hicks ‘a distinct asset

uy
| becaise of BD's.
ssecurity in’ the

Pressures inherent in an. around-the-cicck a

fgnment. carrfes no suvervisor

nsibilities and does not require at
ct denonstration-of-epy 7 aL

iF THis RE POW

rsa oF FETRC TITER OF SOHCATOR

16 October 1972- C/FI/INT/IW

BY REVIEWING OF FICIAL

YS OF KEviewiNG OF FICIAL,

I can add nothing to this evaluation, I share tho rater's
high opinion of Mr. Hicks' work and characteristics,

EFFEC HCE OF Bie

C/FIZINT

24 Oct. 1972)



Given.

aso
S853 She

oo 51 459

pote otatws
joe eee
Waaae n

Eee zs
Tamevact aptevuse Fabt onde
Ati 1954,

tae, Paoreesronre Font oare
[tone

“LJau5 Madttary Service, US "Ardy, Pvt :
2966 National Geophysical Co, Outlay, ‘Toxas = Shootus (fox coli
19405 49 Maxine: B@loratioa Co, Houston,’ Toxo + Ladorstery Hudpas (5 1 “ao0)

Seiwa
YohSS0.“Foxse Agrdewltural & Yo
1949 Univ ef liouaton, Houatos

Cneneer | ono

enn eins we EE
3950 igre meen :

pe vag
0136.14

ok.
Oct 1960

Nov 1960 0136.14) “yi
Aug’196L , 0136.01 3 Beye “ot /raswit Soe

Yay 1952 euee 0136.01] 13 |-D [DD2/Ta0k. Force “WYFaroatl Fr
dun 192k ea 0236.01 :

Nay 1963
fen



12. E1A LPL OWwENT wisToRY SINCE IO BE
rrective oar | rogitioy. WHILE & occupa

| Tul 1946 | Opa OF 0336.01
“hun 1966 | ow 0136.01:

Jun 1967 |Waten of 0132.07



CPROFILC (2anT 2)

VOCRAR AL

Uae SUMMARY OF CAREER PREFERENCE OUTLINE AND/OR FICLO MEASSIGNUGNT QUEETIOMNAIAG

Bs. VOENTITY OF OINER DOGUMEMTD eniGH ENOULD BE REVIEWCO Im OEYAIL

RATION
4 yi

tion 1960 from former Chief of Base, for outstanding perforaaico
of duty wile on staff of ACLEVER Project, 7 Sy ~ 25 August 1960.

: Aopractation and Conmon 1087 froa Ch, Xi & SA Div for the porforzance of the
FI/tntel Waten during the holght of tho recent Kiddlo Kast crisis.

Aopriniod 1947 a Records Officer in the Clandestine Sorvices. i
ciation 1269 from Ch, Hux Div for the performance of tho Intelligence Watch

© tresiden t's tip to. Europe with endorsenent by Chy Fle
212 Quality Step Increase for sustained superior performances

a7. OATE REVICWED We. PROFILE REWICHCO BY = 7 |
20 Aur ‘1973 . omn/ sae

Fen 176 (PART 2) sareates Gere 108 OPE USCC GET PaOFILE ‘i

tren en te oonenetes





et
NOTIFICATION a STABLISHMENT OR: CANCELLATION
OF OF FACIAL COVER BACKSTOP %

-OS6361

Te ean MoMOTe

SIRF, OPERATING-cOMPOSENT (For Bett 9ang ce

cuet subpoer stage: aed Seat
PETIRENENT : ety

ONT:

HICKS, Calvin:

CANCELLATION OF OFFICIAL COVER UNBLOCK RECORI
EFFECTIVE DATE: £00

SUDMIT FORM 3254
|] 22 ae issued. owe 90-44)

Cstesss cover Province

ror 9 former (Specify ~ 1 SUBMIT FORM 942 IMMEDIATELY TO CHANGE TELEPHONE

Rt Reamer tans cavecont 1 |] entecanesr
fee 2 “ i: RETURN ALL OFFICEAL ‘DOCUMENTATION TO CCS

GEKA

SUBMIT FORM 3254_.-___w-2 10 BE ISSUED. SuOMIT FoR 2688 FOR
Cums 20-18) HOSPITALIZATION CARO.”

Sumit i Pebst cr ¢ eB ant rad : |.
cover. ¢ ae" wa : :

sf rei pers: ¥ : :

aa : :

EAA, caTEGOR aaa bef : :

:SUBMIT FORM 2688 FOR, HOSPITALIZATION CARD

Wemanxd aNO/OR COVER Wis TORY

Subject will be acknowledged as CIA
for entire period of employnent end
is not to reveal snecific places or
locations of cover assignments.

DPaTRIBUTION:

nts A LE.

(12-20-83)

2
a
iieteaaidiiee I OFFICIAL coveR aRanci

FORE 155] cre racenous coursow



SUByScT 3 Credit Reference for Mr. Calvin W. Hicks

lL. Me. Calvin. W. Hicks has bad the following history of employment
with the Agency:

S. August 1950°= EOD Headquarters

b. December 1950-April 1952 - FE Division, stationed
overseas

&. April 1952-March 1954 - OTR, He: eadquartera

“A. March 1954-May 1955 - OIR,

He During his time at Headquarters he was a studént-and did not establish

j credit. While overseas, his cover vas that of
although he'told cisual friends that he had been recalled

f to active dcty. From April 1952 to March 1954, by
He used the

[to estaclish credit there.

2, Ne. Hicks will abide. dy the.abové story. Therefore, he should
init no effiltation with the Agency, end his employment with the Agency
will be deatea. :

O



SECRET
(vee bd in)

NOTIFICATION’ OF PERSONNEL ACTION

12.p7 [7 : 3
T Fai BND WEA TEE BE Stata HER RaORTT

EHF SECT 2

ORTON aman Sieve OEGRATON,

- A Tagas. BAN

Be ARO TTF [ ia OF uate

TS OcCoraToRaT BT

22652

“1n2e "7

a amare 2 BGR
lb a tube
je 2
Beran For
= iitatce a By
| ,
=
aaa ; eS Boas
SIGHATURE G2 OTHER AUTAZN'IGATION e
&

: 1-4
FORM So | Use Prenous SECRET Ea er een
‘72 mig 72 | tation 3 cates



secret ~

Ewen bled In)

NOTIFICATION, OF PERSONNEL ACTION

C7751/ 73.

hig
TMM asa ORE 7 : : es
cant

TARE RR

5638) HICKS Calvi

Tea ORR 7 Ge Ora

TR OMT ER CET

ZEASS TERY : eee
7 ay Xf vox “aos!
4 FUNDS. Ajeet fee
nee idilhd | 4222 211s
: = : Ta oan

WASHey Vole

pout

Toe TA TN Wr Giee nee DATION
_ [aATCH OFFICER coco o iz
| iia a TRS eT
Ss : - 0132.07 a
Teas
. roa)
fad
bed i
I TGRATUE O8 OTR AUTMENTEAFON e
Dae 7
ies “E RimpDET ct ay oO7E2T o i

fem 88
an wc Ednon


aie

oy

lov 2473
T haat pat Ta RST

Hino cat wlty a

(When Fitted to

SECRET | vo

an

Tica Tran

24414 6001

Teo oe

CEL/ESALG/ Lad

@ Oka Stato

mESHep Wolo

Tare
C947

Ca eM BEN TOR
o

TROT OE TE
D15Z.07 13

ras a

aay oe aT

Fone

an secon

113088 Use Previows

Edition

ay

“EZ mMPOET CL BY COPE



icceks

SCS -O7T/03 772

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

Hie SECRET

ed. ta

Tana Man]? aR JRE ST AE)

256361 RICKS CALVIN n!

FCI oRT OF DTN

TaanaT oF Rom TN T

REASSIGNMENT

. rinos

*
i ola
x Te gf Haan aa aT
one

Tw OnE Te TOE

3223 Atte cood

OCP/FE STAFF

1

Th Loan OF OFAC TO

wASHee Cole

17 peso tid : 1

TF Posie waNBE TGR VRE CITC

WATCH CFFICES. Osa? Oo.
Te CaS TN TOMBE ToS Hw) TRS a Pr ea TT Tau ora
Gs 0152.07 S13

Tans

re
: et POSTED

i Darn be



~ SECRET
(ge ad np

2. Z

03 JAN 7

Thane want a ncaa

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION,

REASSIGNMENT

ee not fee

vIOW ij VIOCr

Gov d| cHOCE

OOP/FI STAFF
INTELLIGENCE. GF
INTELLIGENCE We

FCT OR ORCS

ROUP. -
ATH.

Th peaition Tie

ware

ia Cats oN Ronit ic,

cs

We Fianes

H OFFICER

iF CRCMAT SR SiS

ON32.07 3

1150
wig 670

rom Ue
on

Edinon

Srtatten | When Flag ta) >


Tat aT

Ngo shy 48S Cabvtiy w
Co :

Y maton OF rest

ODP sFL STARR

roe TO Oe cine Te AaIROETT
owe. 5 6 eae

NAS tee Debe

Tart Toe tT TORE HT DCT
eATCH OFFICER 4092 v

Ta GiASCATION SEMOUTT (GA THe) TS OUP THES 1S GRAOT aN SF TSO OCT
8s 0132,07 Las

Tima i 7 ee

Sa wtte Raion SECRET tne Love |! ae
Fo wets ion of

wn

iy

® 6 @ 8



Re)

FOR PURPOSES GF THE FAIR LAvuR, STANDARDS ACT, AS AMENDED)
You aRE CESIGNATED EXEMPTS :
EFFECTIVE DATE OF DESIGNATION? OL MAY L9T4e

oSo361  . 422eahte agent :

HICKS: CALVIN W

T_SeRAt NO]? NAME 3 OFGANZATION |) TUNES 1s _twOr FOURS

Q50361 |hICKS CALVIN W 32 avo | v i =
o (O10 SALARY RATE 7 Rew SALARY RATE 13 NRE ACTON
Grode [Sep [Selon tort Oe | Grose [Seo] Soiory terete GATE

oS 19 8 425 s50d C5/02471 GS 14 9 [deo 18Y C4/26/74

2 (CERTACATION AND AUTHENTICATION

1 CERTIY THAT THE WORK OF THE ABOXE NAMED EAVLOVEE i OF ACCEPTARE LEVEL CF COMPETE
SIGNATURE EE \ oare aint * oe i
ft COC AA 7 Feb a;
G ey ne
(no excess enor ~

IN PAY STATUS AT END OF WAITING PERIOD.

over stars. at 0 cf wate reo



‘Got Cesar Mae

AIC epg |g fg 2
Ate aa

7 Tt action

nie
Se [ieee tae | a

(of HeB. FISHER ‘
PAY CHANGE “NOTIFICATION”

‘7 560 mig. Sas Coa Rao

Coat Caer Romber

6261_|_BIcKS CALVIN W a ee. eae
Wee Reon

‘OLD SALARY RATE cs NeW SALARY BATE

7! $22,487! 05/02/74 | 05-13! 8

[& Remarks and Authentication

QUALITY STEP INCREASE
roe °

Selery |Last EI Oat ‘Grade [Seo |__ Selery Eltactove Dela | Pst | ASL a

x Sool 2 oe $3
PAY CHANGE bhsedlLisel aed

Bar 500 mis. 30s. HOEY eve U wsn



<a

BORGANIZATION, 1 &

3i soo}

CRTFTCATION AND AUTHENTICATION

| cea at i woik of e Atove Maen

ae oa ed ed

"pay ADJUSTMENT in ACCORDANCE WITH SALARY SCHEOULES oF PL 92e210 ANO
EXECUTIVE ORDER 11637 PURSUANT ft AUTHORITY ng ocr as PROVIDED IN THe
CIAL ACT oF 19695 As AMENDEDS ano A OCT DrRecrive OATED 6 OCTOBER 1962",

EFFECTIVE DATE OF pay ADJUSTMENT] 9 JANUARY 1972

H : : : NEW
Name SERIAL ORGN, FUNDS GRestep SALARY
: NECKS CALVIN 056361

32-500 vy 6S 137 3220487



Dupes Fe 908286

spay aduus te
e : : PURSyaNnT To; 1 HEL T* ge 19690 eal
= as ice? a “ave “prsective paten 8 “oeToaee 1962, . : “

‘ : oonate 7 OLD
NaMe oe + SERTAL O8GN, FUNDS GReSTEP SALART™ ‘satan
WICKS CALVIN W 956361 32.500 v. GS 13 5. $247665 5150307 : :

RICKS CALVIN © | 5a 400 v
“OW SALARY BATE ie ‘NEW SALARY @ATE
oy | ete | een [oe] tee | emo iii

2 OS 37-6
144217] 03709769 Gs 13 5 14, 60) cea

te “ NO EXCESS LWOP
7 IN PAY STATUS AT-END OF WAITING PERIOD

¢ + / LWOP STATUS AT END OF WAITING PERIOD

é CLERKS ne Ml AUDITED fi

I CERTIFY THAT THE WORK OF THE ABOVE ar 1s
OF AN ACCEPTABLE LEVEL OF COMPETENCE,

SIGNATURE: ,

+ Fpas SSOE Min 38



_ Ray. Any!
Execurive

HICKS CALVIN = Osea¢1 - 32 so¢''V' 68.13 6.

’

THENT IN ;sccananc aay SCHEDULES-F a a1e056

TY -OF. OGL. aS PROVIDED IN. TRE

LINDS GReSTEP

SERIAL. .G9GS,

"PAY ADJUSTMENT IN ACCORDANCE WITH SALARY SCHEDULES OF PL 912231 ANO
EMECUTIVE OROER 11524 PURSUANT TO AUTHORITY OF OCT AS PROVIDED IN THE
CJA ACT OF 1949, AS AMENDEDe, ANO A OCI DIRECTIVE DATED 8 OCTOBER 1962”

EFFECTIVE DATE OF PAY ADJUSTMENT! 28 DECEMBER 1939

NEW
NAME SERTAL RGN, FUNOS GReSTEP Sacary
MECKS CALVIN W 05636) 32 500 VY GS 136 * ‘si90555



CHICKS, CARVIN ®

3 ORGANIZATION

NewS

farcry

9162667

‘Ob SALARY BATE

CALVIN’ W 32 500

Pe ‘Rew SALARY Bate

EWE ACTON

[eo [talon

Siew errective bate

[Aon

<n

1 _tow EH. Dore Grade | Seep
1 3 huwaed sink We s1s,809 05/06/89

|

CERTIFICATION AND AUIMENTICATION

fd

[ma]

(CT in pay status at evo oF Warne FERIoD

NO EXCESS LWOP i bd

wor STATUS AT END OF WAITING PERIOD.



EFFECTIVE CATE.OF. Pay addusTHENT! che yey ‘Vs8

: 2-40 aNeey
“SEATAL ‘ORGN, FUNCS Ga=STeP “SaLaRY SAL.
32-500 Vv G5 13.3 $19,307 $104329

NAME :
w 056361

HICKS. Coys

TITLE 55 U.S. AND E

AS PREWIDEO IN THE CLA ACT GE 1945, AS AMENDED, AKO OCL CiRECTIVE
DaTeD Of CCICsER 1962.0

"PAY ADJUSTMENT. IN ACCORUANCE. WITH ThE PROVISLCAS OF SECTICN $305 GF
XECUTIVE

EFFECTIVE DATE oF PAY AGJUSIMEAT: 14 CCTCEER LyT3 . ey

gee a NEW
SERTAL ORGN. FUNDS GR=STED SALARY

HICKS CALVIN & 056301 32° 400, v GS 23 8

AAME

$259500



Th: $ beSeCo $305 -AND EXECUTIVE ORDER
OF 194°

PAY ACJLSTMENT IN ACCOREANCE 7 J
URSUANT TU ALTHOKITY OF DCT: 45 PRCVICEOD IN THE CLA ACT

TE yiesr-eu
“AS AMENDED: AND UCI OIKECTIVE. DATED C4 CCTOBER 1962.%
ERRECTIVE UATE UF PAY ACJUSTHENT? O07 JANUARY: 1973 i
- a NEW
NAME. SERIAL ORGN. FUNOS GR=STEP SALARY
HICKS CALVIN osé36h 32560 v GS 138° $24,299
i
i
MPA ji :
VT AGUUSTMENT IN ACCURDANCE WIT THE PROVISICNS CE SECTICN 5305 cF : :

TITLE 5) UsSeCe ANC EXECUTIVE LHCE® LLbil P RSUANT TC AUTHORITY OF. OCT
iL PURSL: u
AS PRUVICEO IN THE CIA ACT GF 1945, 45 AVERCED, ANG CCE OIRECTIVE
E c 1945, CE OLRECTI!

i EFFECTIVE DATE CF Pay ACJuste

13 CCTCBER 1974

t x: ae
' AME SERTAL  O26N. FUNDS GR-STEP SALARY
HICKS CALVIN ® 996361 32 43) ,¥ 68 139 $27,632 i
’



Tat aT nara

=

HEKS CALVIN Ww

SECRET -
iihen Fed fa)

ee

ee

owe

Foreman wea

ooP/1 Fa

ana (OOE

cr

—_ eta 1, PosiION iM i Teenie sineation
TC eousiriaion THUD TR, WH wc] Te acca GENTE TH Tr Shae OF we
ieuinee Haig 13
Te kei ;
TAO AL top EAUKIATD
amy ae

rot

ME OS ai, SEPARATION

SEkCuUsEE
#10 90,

wrait

st

oo



Tana asEaTT ARTE)

HEGKS:-CALVIN-W

1 matuit 0 PRaSEL AcoN,

NT

7 Una oF eanloTaENT

104167 REGULAR

Oe
T. Fool tains te. ops [8 CK OF OTHER LEAL AUTHORITY

17223 0007 OAAN). SA USC_HO3 J

9 oacaRTaTiONaN DESIGNATION

DOP/F | STARE”
INTELLIGENCE GROUP
NTELLIGENCE WATCH

8, LOCATION OF OFFAL STAN

WASH. , D.C.

ry

shai ke : Fei F Tae TS
WATCH OFFICER ae 1032 _0
MT WE we ToT TR ie nr
“6s loi32.07_. N35, | “WN665

Emad

W topiy | Ph
oo

seal

Th ono ae [Doe

| 5 DATE OF STH

1 soo | & 501 Wieeeeele (OS |euietetealacay
Stn art | wien [yet te wi
ry cry REFEREE Fee cope

Tver PaereeiRce

Grae a _ Fey teen “a Toe SECURITY no

|
‘ai foicioutrctaon otra; ——— ry
ae aa LL ree
(eal oes i

ce rite

aa

FROM: WH
\ PE mse “ne

cr

w

wo

oe



eS8364._—/HICKS\CALVIN W over [

neny

-NOTIFICATION, OF ‘PERSONNEL -ACTION-

Taran TaraaT

‘S MaTeRe oF FEaGORNTL ACTION °

‘OF tanorata

23 -) REGULAR -

[ie wa. ~ $7235 e620 anda]. 50.USC

T-] vate?) | Fienial Reagan ho, Gargecio | GC OF OTMER LEGAL AUT

WO3 Jo

3 :
CCLOMBIA SECTION

18 (6CATIOn OF OFFICIAL STATION

WASH. 0.C.

Tete iE iON RTE i ait reat
OFS _OFFICER ; 1358" + Do. :
Te aN HAE, cy TT HTTP ne iar oa
a Gs : 0136.01 (113. 4 1217
er : -

SPACE BLLOW TOR ExciwsiVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL Senn auanne|
W ATION A Empley.| OFFICE CODING Hi Siatigw ; Bh iNiLeREE -) 8 Woqies | 25 DATE OF iAH | 36, OUTE OF GRADE 197 DATE OF UE
wt (ote Wowe nie Tiewaperie WOE cane honed coarry ve [ uo. a. i ry) ve
37 lio [simon l|wa  Isaigt ogee [eee
REviaGMENT OMIA inv SepataTiON [7 co

Beers

XX _IXX_XX

TR)
a | PuEA ORE Cpe “os feoD DATA
‘ee (isan nai

| aa seconity [30 Sex
0 9,

Bit ncaNe [wT Ge bale | Toe Ga [Sane Grow |

Feu wiacEn WaT

a a Tokar nlite Bar 7
ie (fered Peers ratt fen

a win arle Taga a ak Tit

ox oe

[eo Socat Secon 16
Tar outa
[" ner

|

I

PubInESgeguinanna”~ \gEPmOEONBSOBSERSREEREEACE==


_ Sante) eee (ATT ASTRON

[056361] HICKS CALVIN W.,

REGULAR
7 CSC OR OTHER LEGAL AUTRORITT
50 USC 403 v
HERRON eNO Ta TON GF TTC ST
: : ~
4} o0P/wH © : :
BRANCH 3 é “9
COLOMBIA SECTION »  IWASH., OC. :
ea HE brainer ar ava wena
te
OPS OFFICER | ; 1359 ° in)
Se aeaTION SeRCOTRE GE TO, wed 15 OccuPaTiona Seajes | Te GRADE avo STEP a iaaay
4 : 7 : we 4
: cs 0136.01 134 1217 ;
Te ena af a ne : ae
: “4
ee
i eee ee eee eee airsseeneied Grr]
SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFTiGE OF PERSONNEL
V7, ACTION] 20. Employ | Ti, _OFFICE CODING WR GTATION | 79 WNTEGRLE [20 Nagin [75 OATE OF HiRiW [ie GATE Gr GRADE _[77. oae OF UE
(00E | Cote Ffeeeme —ncrmnnarie | (OE C00 G a a a ve
1.37 | 10 | 51400] WH 75013! Il 11 08)24} yy 4 j
Tone ries Th wean |e __WTREweaT eat SerataTow 32 CouMETTioN NCEA TION Ox W wii ye see
coer al rere neat Tae ee et eon pata) | OR ea
09114168 | 84 [VEE peta H
35 VET PREFERENCE |, SEY, tone Cour wate Ta Guat Ga w ti Teta cece)
wae 7 an aT) . Tone [waite cet fost eae (ery
! j :
wwe ar, @ Titan tax bata w ‘Tae tat oat
a oa a coor Stan tuewrrl 1 ortrs [cone peo Tax lorave.
4 ous a 2
: |
4 ae Sew
a

Use Provious

{aso ‘nal



sy
: RET.
Whe Fe

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL “ACTION

Bor bi Tana
056361" | HIGKS. CALVIN. W " oe ae
«eave oF Peon ion = cae Taleo Tan aTaET
“REASSIGNMENT. : pe (OF 344.66 REGULAR -
: Ce a KC
: one | | awe (72350620 Gone] “50 USC HOV .
7 aReanTaTOnT Save Ti aon BF aHTGAL TAT fe
. | BRANCH 3
_| LIMA SECTION WASH. , 0.C,
Treanor rine Dery
+ OPS OFFICER i : ae
Te eTCTN THREE, Tw) Tara eT TT eB
gs 0136.01 14217
Der
SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL =e a
WAGON Rapier [Her GE He StaTOn /B. WTGaGe | He hagm | BATE OF HTH, [1 OATE OF HUBER OF URE
coo | Gee Saree jae | CO0E or ial ae ee — a
37 | 10 [51400 | WH 75013 voit ose] op :
[Bic wie carines Ya seecian [an ac TiREMERT bata |3t_ servaation [at conntciow CaMctutATON OaTal stant [ee
aS rear DATA (O0E Favre we | gop DATA 360 0 a
\ :
HEN uN] ene Gana [Oia andcoat, | Wen oe UT wo
a Tin GF 6 aaa 7 aa
ETy « iron curea) Coon



SCHELLLES ch PL 29-506

SPAY ADJUSTMENT IN ACCORDAACE SITH Say

PURSLANT To AUTMORETY OF OST aS PROVIDED IN THE CTA OF 19496.
AS APENCED) AND ASOCI DIRECTIVE DATED & CCTOBER 1902 : :
EFFECTIVE OATE OF Day AuJUSTMENTE J JULY 1966
: wud NEW
NAME SEATAL O9GN, FUNUS GR=STEP  SecaRY SALARY
HICKS CALVIN w OSe3e1 $1 997 Vo GSAS 4 525-825: 814,217



cig a IgeCRE aoe
(When Fue ba)

056361

[i aANE (CAST Fas aOLE)

LHICKS CALVIN: W

‘aan oF PERSORSLE ALi 7

Weg 2

coe

awd

[6235 0823 ando

‘ ontaniDaTiOuat bisstaaTiOat ™

va

DOP ANH: : :
CS/CS DEVELOPMENT COMPLEMENT

WASH. O.C.”

Te otatie OF GARG Tati

Ti Posirion HE

a Ponitign wean

Th stevie pisOATION

: ‘OPS OFFICER” | {9997 o
Te CaSTTLATON BEMIDIE To, ch TF ocaeaion Sines 7) Gage BO Wane oe ae ;
cs 0136.01 JI 13335
1h Reman eect a aaaassgneeceecbeeeectete nett ttanetic aati a
“TRAINING
fs 4
‘SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL anu
TW HTGATRO Empey | 71, _ OFFICE CODING 2. STATION | TH Fagin. | BATE OF OrdIH | M4, DATE OF Gaabe [DATE OF LET |
ocd teed cong eri one oe oA Ww peo ee
37_|13 | 51997] WH i 1 a] .
CR eT Wien ie
1 eset oun coe mn

ean Gi

recon

1
|
j[zo eara >

L
a Soca SGT wo

veoeni ta

Foe
rer

nso



*

apay ADsusT

ai wa ScHE
error on tht

i es
ext tN agconnes

RSUARTS re Shursos tty Fae fe
as AMENTEDS ant Ped Jeet

gRcECTIVE DATE oF pay sguusteest# ” octsaed 8 oo

: iz ae ‘ : Nes

i SFRLaL © OFBNe plus. GHeSTEy gauany
i

lee 51997 9

wrecks CALVIN # 05638 Gs 13.4
1
TeKS CALY

a . — Boe ee
056364 | HICKS CalyIy w | 49 300 v

; aa aT ic sara Ee bara
Gon | Sue ‘oof Gow | Grose | Sup] Solon | Ome Ome | oa | ts | ADE

Gs 19 3 12,04 d 95/10764 G5 13 4 (5132335, 25709764 |
8 Bemarks ond Authenhconon : ia
4 4 NO EXCESS LuOP
.4 4 IN Pay STATUS aT ENO OF WAITING PERIOD
¢  / LWOP STATUS aT END OF WAITING PERIOD
CLERKS INITEALS dy ) AUDITED wY

4 asrh bs

Mar i2

1 CERTIFY TkaT THE woaK oF ThE ABOVE NAMED EMPLOYEE 7
OF AN ACCEPTARLE LEVEL OF COMPETENCE,

wih os ee oN care hele

Pay CHANGE NOTIFICATION

stowaturer 3° 9%
bawek

PSALARY

3150595 $13,825

a

°



“ SECRET

(Wee Fig)

y GitcoRT OF HR OTRT

[aw oRR ER RET,

DDPswH DiVIS}ON
WHC MIAME OPS BR pM. Sec

WASHee De C

7 Foon wane

1140

1 cane mR TON
ae

1 ear Ta
0136 90d

Gea a

a3

Tae SET

tL

SIGNATURE OF

wm 508 Use Previous
NIG. 85 on

(hen Aled In)


mee SECRET :

: = twrnee fied tmp

WICKS CALVIN w
PMN OF RE

REASSIGAYENT

TG oe ont Wem msinoRiT

7 ro Ti

OPS OFFICER CM “

dager aright
aaa eat TT roo
wa
as ~

7G Sarnia
=D ates

HICKS CAuvin M
OW Sataay tang”

“Ms

ZNO Excess Lwop

7 IN Pay STATUS “y END oF WAITING PEATOD

7 Lior sy, TUS at END OF wary) ING PER
eLeans ANITIA ALS i

‘ :
AUDITED gy Ae
° °
TCERTIFY ty
e

HE THE agove NAMED Exp,
aN feces tat tevee™ oF "cone RRO¥E i core <

SRECH Ay ER Ib Sounsch - Sh:

Pay CHANGE NOTIFICATION

sy


eo 7

oe
&
ous 'oF c-kaw 87°793 an Ot
.| ‘ He PROVESTCNS OF 'PUBLT
AOS. can “acege

a 5 ° WS
’ nuH TEE foa6, SALAaY. 1S ADJUSTED AS FOLLOWSS
WEMOAAN, io :
“eFrecrive 3. ANUERY 19646

: 33 GaeST
RYAu Onan FUNDS “G'
a SERTAL :

opp > 2 NeW
Sapany © SALARY

WIEKS vIn ® mo361 (49 450 V 3. gare515 $120110
‘ 1N 0' 2 iy GS 13.2 $44052
1 cal % :

1 Seatne (2

Con Goni Ronber

on 450

5 GAD Sua Bare

056364 | KICKS CALVIN W v 3

fe ew Sauna save

7. 1 ACTON
Ce ee ee

see] Meme bow a] | ae

Gs £3 3 813,199
L

7 Rowain ond Acton
:

i
05/13/02 GS as 2 (S21, 519) 05/12/63, i
i: # WO EXCESS LWOP -

i 7 UN PaY STATUS AT END OF WAITING PERICOD

,

7 LWOP STATUS AT END OF WAITING PERIOD
CLERKS INTTIALS AUDITED BY

1 CERTIFY THAT THE work RoR 9 ‘ABOVE NAMED EMPLOYEE IS
oe OF AN ACCEPTABLE LEVEL OF COMPETENCE.

: : srouTune (GS fe PWebiys oe ate Rb

PAY CHANGE NOTIFICATION

ae

on



Or

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

THCHAL UOTE Meee (aN FiasT wD)

066361

BECKS: cALVIN Ww

TY HaTGNE OF PERO

PROMOTION

aia ana

Ta Ge oa orate ceaat avout

2235 A400 1090] 50. USC HO3 J

Fy GieantaTionay oestaations

DOP TASK. FORCE W-
PARAMILITARY SRANCH- |

1a LeGaTiOn OF eFviGi HatIOW

TH. Posmiee Hite

OPS. OFFICER

Wane weave ‘ieanan

TH GASiTIcaTON MODELERS TA, ee

cs _- | 0136.01

3 162/05 13 182

ar Tayi | To GHFICE CODING 7 stato

cant (ote Tusane rs ee toe

22 110 | 61u5o| ifw | 75013)
a

a Geneon aR GUTOR,

Te wie Garnaey So wotcran |. RETTRTMENT OTE

eerttee |

TEVEr PREFERENCE | We SURE COuP. GATE] 37-t0xG”COnP- DATE

vane ttl

wait at
0

7 Fae WiOny GovENEAT Bene OATH

‘SIGNATURE OR OTHER AUTHENTICATION, g

Fora Use Provious
1s on

“

ea

ou.

‘a

wares FALVIN

wyTH THE P89. 151c%8_
i504. ones
1a

BUNDS ot S3r SaLakY

a7 _= 79% AND
Ais ADJUSTED AS FCLLOAS.



PSC: | 18 AUG 1961

A

SECRET
(When Filled tn)»

HICKS CALVE N

ODP. WH
BRANCH
PARAMILITARY SECTI ON

[ewe

056361" we : eee uae
[7 aapane or Peatownts neva 7 Hct aE oar OF FAL OTMENT
REASS LGNMENT” ANO ‘TRANSFER - = adie :
TO: VOUCHERED FUNDS . ” ; FOB) 20, 31 -, REGULAR *
= VT GF Git TEN wo, GRUTEANTE 8 Gt oe STAT UREA AaTRORTTT
2635 5000 8021]: 50 USC 403 J

TE Vocation OF Grvica ftatiOR

WASH. D.C.

Tr Pano Te

7 Faiiion wie Tr arena TaN

7 |
OPS OFFICER 10716 | o
TTR TEE ww Tan TE a Ta oe
6s [0136.01 ian) | 9735
Tuas : :
[gem SPACE BELOW TOW EXCTUGIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL
AE Far | RO Tone Han eee nan ONE ann TTT ET
Level TRUMERIC UPR NBETG hasea _ ve wo eee] wo ok,
16 | 10 4450] WH: | 7501 fe tt day ae
TEESE ATTEN Cai [ aT SeeaATION | GO aT ai Tar secagiy 3 SF
ooo] terete a | * [een | rahe |
Yi

BF ver meitME

Wir Ga on [aie oro ATL Te DT

Teeuwen so coor)

ve |

a a ee |

Gi Paavidus CavERRNENT SenvCE DATA

aie ar bata

a aay

Obsolete Previous
Editions

ras]



eaaee SECRET o

¥ nov 1960 itt Int
NOTIFICATION OY PERSONNEL ACTION ES
Tana eae TP ae THER .
56361 [HicKS CALVIN, : : : : .
-
ot
OOP we re es . et -
BRANCH ® : bs WASH, Os Ce i .
ae eae ar miteeae ane ee
- | 7
: GUERILLA.WAR OF ; po :
TC aatae avo HOw) | TOR Te Cie rT | aT on AE
os fon gégta he je NB -
UPON TERMINATION OF THiS: TEMPORARY ASSIGHMENT You witi 6€ REASSIGHED AS THE ae
EAD OF YOUR CAREER SERVICE:DIRECTS. —. “4 oe tt
: oo
oo n «©
. SPACE BELOW-FOR EXCLUSIVE
THAR Wap [HE ore ine > YE TION; Hive PHC |
COE: | Gale Sine norman | CONE tO ose e-
[37 [10 6uk50" [we _ 175013. |
[a aieaines Fa vec nt ext iT aeaion Timm pee.
| tereeewe aie mance ta 7
Va WaRTTNeE | BERT had |e eT TTD at aoa TTT | :
ae ae er re a oa @
ie ena ee oP an Teen tH Tate tak aT 7
| ' |

‘SIGNATURE OR OTHER AUTHENTICATION

wla7coZK

.®

SECRET

genre meameeraecssie ss comm

‘ a SECRET :
(When Filled Tn)
Sanne tans Te een Gaston te eT awaP Hore we
556361 [srcis CALVIN W por en UN uy :
% EW SALARY BATE TPE ACTION .
7 ee ian ta pnw | Gene] Sie] = Salary _[_Brocive Date | at | tat | AD2 :
7 Rs | 3 | 99479 w1ss64. 12 | 4 |S E osriere | | ~

iT Womarka ead Authentication

a EXCESS LWOP
“7 IN PAY STATUS AT END OFoWAITING PERIOD
iG PERIOD
IN ee

A

© us AT END O



1" ACCORDANCE RITH THE: Fev

an

oct MEMO DATED

. 563° AND
SIONS OF Pe Le 867563
ub 0 JULY 19606.

STD AS FOLLOWS EFFECTIVE 1

jucust 1986» Satagy tS ACJ

iy NAM SERTAL ORGN AST “OLD SALARY NEW SALARY
n N G Gi i. L

sp. 1 ! ee :

nM HICKS A VIN W 5563 50 4 S= 3 8y810 3 90875)
ia teKS CAL HT 56361 0 45 GS-12 2 Daa

1s? EMMETT De ECHOLS
DIRECTOR OF. PERSONNEL

Tune waar aT MTD

Lhuncks caLviii w

[vay rr (GREETS GARERE 7 GC STE TEA LoTR
any 1 a dh ad ate 50 USC 403 ¥
9 ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGNATIONS [roca ee emia sion
OOP NE; :
CS/CS DEVELOPMENT COMPLEMENT .
Ti Fesiviow inte Tis Candee stevice piueNiTIO
i
GUERILLA WAR OFF J
Ta amiTTeATION KmUDUTE GS, BR [ie enon nee Fs Cora A hun of wate
: { : |
cs lorgein¥ Hz3 LAB

Te Rn

‘SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF TNS CENCE OF PERSONNEL

1 ATION TA fepley T
coo | tote

Tat saree a
woe

| *

37_| (16 175013 1 Hee
Te ate Barnet TetietEAT BAR HT SEPARATION haan a a
ee 5 tune cne eae Pee j

| ;

TE VET PRUVERTNGE | 34 SERY. GaP BATE | WUONE, COP OATE OH AL GEA. EDTA

al |
ite ! (ee) sree EEE :
Trevi tina aan BaP Tae coma te Tait in ie
Toor tt [baie Ger) FW etwinw | ow nea [looe ETP areee
| } eae Tew}

An

‘SIGNATURE OF OTHER AUTPENTEATION





Taioara Gr witrial een” 9, ondde] ei a 7

2 Poses ie 4 saniiae ES.Nov 28 of N. 3

‘OED: “¥15" tN THE: BOR
JSECTION _C ane
Ue Vesetateteey

(optional in valanan to segerencan of
ore Se warrant tpetiol facogmiion

T-QUACIFICATION CaS. TO DESCRIOE THE WORK Saye

OF A WATCH OFFI -- Prepares. 1D disseninations from DDO intel cables and re~ 7

leases ithén. to the U.S. Intel, Community expediting their delivery by advance
A appropriate. Also disseminates certain: DIV/D cableg.
| const

electrical transzission wi

epeciric CUTY NO. a
Reviews intel- cables’ for adherence to established reporting procedures and

operational security; when necessary deleces objectionable data a the
lof authentication statements. .

‘Breciric Ovty Noa. :
After hours graars er denies clearancés (in consultation, vith the responsible

area division) for use of DDO information in finished intel publications.

RATING
terrae

Wesine buTT Nee —
Keeps current on: the general and special requirements of both internal and ex-

ternal, Agency custezers particularly whea the information involves the security
protection of U.S. and foreign dignitaries, hijacking, etc. gens
Bul cee ded Wo only wich D0 area divisions}
and’staffs but with Signal Center, Cable Secretariat at all levels-to expedite
che dissenination ef significant reports; works closely with DDO Duty Officers

and $D9s to keep ene another alert to significant events.

Rava
terran

te CLASSIFICATION:
: ae : 002025
. = CONPISITIAL £2, eetcer cL ay



icks' performince shas continued to be characterize:
by exceptiorial: proficiency. The record:4s ‘already replete of laudatory corriénts -
regarding ‘his ‘performance. not. only in IW but in previous .agsigniments. Mr. Hicks 4s
retiring from the Agency at. the end ofthis year-on-a medical di abi ity.
Since-his assignment to.IW,-7 1/2 years: ayo, he-has had.a,medical hold and
because. of his deep roted motivation and strong. belief. in the Agency's missions. he
“hag-held on ‘tenaciously uitd] hé reached: the age of 502 ‘In ad n to being'a very
eff IW officer throughout these. years,-Mr. Hicks has also pérforméd™ .
‘superior rT as“a paramilitary officer during the early years of his-career,

overseas and’ in.Headquarters:: * oe :
‘ishes for good héalth throughout the coming

Ouring this reporting. period Mr.

We ‘wish him Godspeed, and our best w’
years « :

TF FAIS REPOUT id NOT BERN SnCam FO EUPLOVER. GIVE EXPLANATION

RETIRED

| raarunwes tt Z - marge -
: 2. t tions :
24 Decenber- 1974 C/oPs/INt/T [ Rach focaccino
iu a ai HE 2. BY EMPLOYEE zt
te pamrermempremereerprNye Tn (LET Ricwarone Sr eanareT
eer)
Calvin We Hicks

[eneirscnte TX [ove norarncnce |
7 S_BY- REVIEWING OFFICIAL

[Fousents or peviewing orriciae

I concur with the rating official's comments. Mr. Hicks turned in
a creditable performance during his extended tour on the Operations
Staff, and-well deserves his supervisor's “Strong" rating. Xe all
hope that his years of retirement are rewarding and. fruitful.

Tata apc Hh ares ss CET
aay S
|  Bloise 8 Page
Ta) BV EMO: Z
TE MAVE SEGN YHE ENTEIVS ow [OATE aa j
ets REOGR™. Employee retired on 2:
CLASSIFICATION
CONFIDENTIAL

Fewiteeettintncie® unetian.


aja OO 8 aRaba Te 8o.

ET AWE caw, Bis, mda

HICKS, Calvin We : : [ow eel

7, OFriciat Fosition Tirce-

Getting remedal :
atlgament oF te wepsraion. ;Deuribe oxtén then

Popraletont " etondo arainordr), Oped fos we Wain, padeant ts 5 mae xpected,

Sehvong Pectormonce ly tharocteited by exceptional prohiciency, E

O=Oumtonding, te onl in rl re ean AG ek and copian a parents tn diy ir
Sree? gata warrant seecial recognition nae a

“SPECIFIC DUTIES

int tapas space uti sertrted ding fo rormg pei Intt lng Tier which bow donb he manner in which espe
pci duty, Conifer OMY gr in petermeneh of Bt dey ll enpleren ile rperar.epbnhag MUST Be reed ca
fo Wuporwia.vindeeate aumbas of am rene).

Geciric OuTY Noy (Note? DD
of a Watch Officer)--Prepares TD disseninations from-DDO Intel’ cables and re-
leases ‘them to the U.S. Intel Community expediting their derivery by advance s
electrical’ transmission when appropriate. Also disseminates certain DIV/D cables .

farina

apicivie BUFY NO. &
Reviews fatel cables for adherénce'to established reporting procedures and tere

operational security; when. necessary deletes objectionable data from the SUPDATA|
and/or authentication statements.

‘the ¢losest qual iti ation code Eo Weser Ibe the work! RATING:
terrae

‘BREciric DUTY RO. >. RATING:
‘Alter hours grants or denies eae (ia Here with the responsible, Aracsheseed

area division) for use of .DDO-information in finished intel publications. s$

ieirie DUTY, NOsa
eps current on the general and special requirements of both internal and ex—

ternal Agency custoners particularly when ‘the information involves the security } . 5
and protection of U.S. and foreign dignitaries, hijacking, ete. :
Rating

sEcIFIC DUTY NO, 8.
aintains good. vorking relations not only with DDO area divisions and staffs but | tT

with Signal Center, Cable Secretariat at all levels to expedite the disseminatiog §
of significant ee ee ond

nother-aler t-0-signiticant—even ter
PEGG DUTY NO. © | Ratna

OVERALL PERFORMANCE IN CURRENT POSITION

Konduct an job, cooseanrensia. pernnent personal
of employee's ove
saralyiellee

CLASSIFICATION

Fesm gg ONOUTE rarmious



SS CUASSIFICATION
NARRATIVE CO!

4 ge
| It is set characterized: by. exceptional ber formance He™ contin to aienlay Penteiat yd
j resourcefulness. and good Ca aatet in the “performance: of the -dutfes assigned to, ‘an IW

‘ x ‘gence Watch Since June 1967; /A'medical ‘hold has. *}- i ee
pt 1 r iss {gnments, and “for ‘this. reason his: tour in IW-has “bee :
» fextended-t : ‘ sage50°.(N er. '1974) ‘at’ which time he plans to retire urd
od Y this period he.has- cOntinuously applied himsel
4 1 et some protracted ‘sick’ leave periods. he has
freturned ready. to. step, in and pick up where”he left: off ‘which 4s. the best ‘proof of-his
mastery-of details.and the mechanics ‘of dissémination, as:well as his ability to adjust
to the stresses, and strains resulting from'this type-of assignment.
“Since ‘the inception’ of his -IW assignment:;hé has’ borne the same responsibilities and
: carried the Same burdens as. his colleagues’ in the ‘GS-14 category and continues to per-
form at this level. For this sustained high-level of performance in 1972 he received a
quality, step increase in recognition ‘and as; proof Of ‘the "high esteem in which he is

held by his supertors. —. -
“Mr; Hicks’: resourcefulness - and ability to apply the myriad of.reporting skills’ and

techniques has been clearly demonstrated.tn crisis situations such as. the recent

-IChiléan political. upheaval and the currentNear Eastern crisis. The presence’ of IN
officers. ‘such'as Mr.Hicks enables the 000 to-effect electrical dissemination of the
high Precedence traffic to the Intelligence’ Community in a matter of minutes ona 24-

oes : route hax jRes carries. no ‘supervisory ¥espons {bilities che gives all indications
ein 2 erent. :
i: Seriont a =. CERTIFICATION. AND -COMMENTS: = . i

1. = : ‘BY: EMPLOYEE - a:
“LOERTIEY THAT 1 HAVE SEEN “SECTIONS A, B,C AND 0 OF THis REPORT
‘oate SIGNATURE OF EHPLOVER
23 detober 1973 Calvin Wt titers Cato: £2 Shek

BY_ SUPERVISOR =

1? THIS REPORT HAG NOT GEEN GHGWN TO EMPLOYEE, GIVE EXPLANATION

MonTue EMPLOYEE Hixe BEEN
UnSEn My SUPERVISION

50 pee
Dare ] OFFICIAL TITLE OF GUPERVIGOR heii) oem ‘SONATURE
Baie : Oe) |
23 October 1973 C/OPS/INT/ 1M. i Sdseph A Procaccino’ i
3. BY REVIEWING OFFICIAL ;
‘COMMENTS OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL
: : |

“have observed Mr. Hicks’ performance in various capacities over the years

and concur with Mr. Procaccino's rating. His contribution to the Intelligence
Watch has, I know, been substantial. eae

OFFICIAL TITLE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL i Fa a ae
C/OPS/INT Kets Re re
CLASSIFICATION =] if i i

bate

13 November 1973



fee 1 SECRET: ‘
fe cane Fite te)

FITNESS REPORT.
: GENERAL
Tasty aOR Brea
w. Nov 24: :

ror ae CUWRENT STATION”

HgS

EMPLOYEE SERIAL NUMBER

056361"

Tian 4
Hicks , iCal
watch Officer

PeQINTMERT

Souree al reee oF!

Tie chen Gai Tyre OF REPORT.

Saropment supemvinon|

Tenseane pi
ienMENT EMPLOYER,

LX lanmuan
gine (Specllyhe F
RIOD (Prom to)

mee Now 71= 31 Oct 72

ALUATION

‘A rate is tis coregery requires immediate ond postive remed
raining, t2 plating on pr

i ecient rm we espe, The eeoroms for oncgring this bling. shouldbe tated in Section Cid remedial ache
foie ot recommended sbzuld be deteribed.

Perfdamianee in sat ils are being Broduced in the manner expected.

Performance it chitacreritéd by-exceptional proficiency:

Performance io egeptiatlinetoion to iegsiement ofthe work ond in comparison fo the petformance of oth

yy. Devted

ont specitic duties perfossied dining
cH

Consider ONLY effectiveness
fe uber of err ptay

ing period. Insert rating lerter which best deseribos the,
performance of that duty. All employees

Liluty to supeevtse fon
Wy sor (hover LOMO IS the closest qualitication code to describe the worl ce ce

teh Officer) --Preaares TD dissems*from Intel Cables énd’ releases thei

te the ULS. Intel Community for the CS excediting their delivery by electrical

jtransmission en aporopriate. Also. dissems certain FI/0 Cables.

i Fain ourv se. tert!
r ts wita “area division officers,.as necessary “tn his judgment, regarding ry

Corsul
é. nability of. the info and to ensure adequate protection of sources _
és with unl Agpatroent to! info’ reaching: policy devels.

SEU S
BES ‘Suodsta and authen
2 crerational gata befere any distribution is made.

wating
Corrie

cation statement in’ intel cables and deletes any
fects distribution

Cerra

‘ent on the general and special requirerents of customer agencies
the white House for cabled info, i.e., info on narcotics, hijacking,
ection of U.S. and foreign dignitaries, etc.

Sree BATS
rv hours, crants clearances (in consultation with responsible area division) |‘*"'S
the use of dissemed CS information in finished intel publications in a $

mer denied by dissemination controls |
“alateins good working relations not only with COP area divisions joe
jan3 staff, put with Signal Center an¢ Cable Secretariat at all levles to |
jexcedite the disses of significant reports; works closely with CSD0s and SDs to s
keze one another alert to significant events. A

: OVERALL PERFORMANCE IN CURRENT POSITION

45. casorere neous romans



| renitnding Divistonal personnel about:

schon ‘ce

to perform.with exceptional pioftctency. In Apetl 1972: he.
a qustiey. Step Increase: in recognition arid as ‘proof of the high esteem
vin which he“is‘held by ‘his ‘supervisor in’ the Clandestine. Service
. oMP,Hicks' services have been pe ‘ly valuable 1d: Feporting period
because of DDP's: 4g regarding the strict ‘matftenance. of :operational

5 Hssemination ofits intelligence formation. “Hicks.-has ‘been in=
| Strumental™ in referring:many..reports, when in, the opinion -of IW Officers, the authen-
tication: Statement. andthe manner {n which: the. report is written -would help to Pinpoint.
‘the source of the information tf the report fellsin. unauthorized hands. Mr: Hicks*-~..
“notations’ on; the IW log. Cards which record’ the: action ‘taken on-each teport indicate -the |
ich “Mr. Hicks, approaches his daily tasks’ and his contributions in
‘essential elements .of good. reporting and-the

émply with the prescribed. forma
__ The exeréise of good judgment -in-referriag or consulting on an’ Titel: Cable prior to
its’ dissemination te the Intelligence Community. is an essential element in the proper
functioning of this office and upon which “depends to a certain extent the’ Agency’ s
reputation.

With the retfrement “and reads {gnment ‘of several IW officers -during this reporting
period, Mr. -Hicks 1$ now; the IW officer with the most experience and continuity on the
job., This together with his maturity of judgment and ability to withstand the rigors an
iogiths inherent in an around-the-clock activity, make Mr. Hicks a distinct asset in
the “unit.

MD Poet lig carries no: super responsi les and does not require any

COMMENTS

= ‘ey CAPLOYER z 5
TEERTIFY THAT I HAVE SEEN SCCTI 5, AND € OF THIS REPOST
Bare ““Tignarune OF emeuover (Ty glans, Aa,
16 Qetobet 1972 | Calvin W. Hicks

BY SUPFRVISOR
MORTRETUFEDTEE mas EPO F THE REPORT WAS NOt GEEN sHonn To EuPLOTEEL ONE EXPURNATION

UNDEW MN SUPERVISION

38
TATE ISP FICIAL TITLE OF SUMERVISOR TT TRED OF Fe By SNARE ARO Signature
| | Phen
16 October 1972 | _C/FI/INT/IW Pare Sine 00

3 z BY REVIEWING OF FICIAL
‘COMMENTS OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

I can add nothing to this evaluation. .I share the rater's
high opinion of Mr. Hicks' work and characteristics.

24 Oct. 1972!

T ry YF ieiAaL FYFE NTEO NAMm,
ee ce Aes
C/FI/INT Thomas F. Thiele

SECRET



aac ee SECRET. ws

éanen Fe tted Tad e ae rile = =

FITNESS REPORT

{SECTION Se GENERAL
7 hae Tew RT
HICKS. “Cauvun We?

TE ervciat poution TLE) canennn 5

oer ry g ors ae
'8.Nov 1924 |. | GS-13 O.

% OFF/OIV7OR OF ABHIGNUENT [6 CURRENT STATION

poe fer LNT/IW. Hesvavanteas. "i

CMECK TAT TYPE OF REPORT

REPORTING PERIOO (From tod

1 DecéwaeR-1970

Ginarcn i onasdapratle. A eching.in tha coligoiy raquien mrad oo |
oud cre Aimy euunel, te farthes ng fe planing ow prshor, Ye raragnest of fo sepsrghon Dei ecin faba
or propoitd l'Sechen
Pésformencis in se apt. The edna fir engning thi 10h
She Or rcommanded thsi be decbed ne

il met i tin ina ac

Pivfoimance in vo exceptional i alation to equireme
work Gi te warrant special recognation. :
= : SPECIFIC ouTIES
st important specific duties performed during the rating pert
performs EACH specie duty. -C "

toting letter which boot describ
duty. All employees

SATRARMASHMEGE AOTET ODIO URCPORTS OFFICER AcTIviTIES) 18 THE CLOSEST GUALIFIEA
TION CODE To.DiscHiat Mrs Hicns"-WoRK AS. A'WATCH OFFICER.” SPECIFIC OUTIES ARE?

SPccsDury .No.1==PacPAReS TO 01 SSEMINATIONS FHOM CABLED FICLO INFORMATION REPORTS
SaRMUTRASTERAA “Ayo ACLEASES THEN TO.U.5.° INTEL COMMUNITY, EXPLOITING DELIVERY
ts | BY ELECTRICAL TRANSMISSION: WHEN ABPROPRI ATC.

Specabuty Nose=oReveases JBHURRIEO caeucs, as O1SSCMINATION TO TATEL. CORNET
INTERPRETING. BRAG FI/D ‘INSTRUCTIONS ON VARIOUS CATEGORIES OF CABLES OISSENCD,.
SSIS OUTYNS:# ZCONSULTS ARCA DIVISION-OFFICERS, AS NECESSARY, TO INSURE, ADEQUATA aT
PROTECTION oF SOURCES AND MCTHOOS!WITH MINIMUM IMPAIRMENT TO THE VALUE OF THE
ANFORMATION REACHING POLICY LEVELS. : : . s
SFECiPiG DUTY WO S=-SEERS AND RESPONDS TO GUIDANCE RE MOST EFFECTIVE SCRVIET
UiteL. Community, icLipine White House -SiTUATION Room, .wiTH CS-AcQui ac!
MATION} INCLUDING AFTER@HOURS SERVICING OF REQUESTS FOR CLLAKANCE oF: CS~v1SSEMI=
NATED INFORMATION IM FINISHCO INTELLIGENCE PUBLICATIONS ON BCHALF-oFr Fi/inT/RC.
SPECIFIC OUTY,NO. 8

Aovises AND Assists Arca Division ofriccas in prcikation of TD o1SSEMiNATI ONS
BASED ON INFORMATION OTHER THAN THAT CONTAINCD IN INCOMING CABLEQ FIELD INFORMA~

wATINS
terran

TION REPORTS AND PROVIDES Aovice To CSDO on Requcsr. P
SPECIFIC OUYY NO, @ 7 RaTiNa
Cerrar

FACILITATES AND MAINTAINS GOOD WORKING RELATIONS WITH THE CABLE SECRETARIAT ANDO,
SisHaL CCNTER AT ALL LEVELS To' EXPEDITE DISSEMINATION OF SIGNIFICANT REPORTS.

: . es

; OVERALL PERFORMANCE IN CURRENT POSITION

we
i

Lune
cerrer

Toke inte account everything ebout the amplayen which influences his sifectiveness In his curant position such a por
formance of specilic duties, productivity, condvet-on job, cooperativeness, pertinent personal traita or habits, and
perneviot limitations of talents- Based on your knowledge of employee's overall performance, during the rating period] S
place the Ve sponding 10 the statement which most dccurately reflects his level of performance.

in the roting box eon

SECRET



~ SECRET

pgttacsieei

eae a

nbment nd fy

THERE HAS BEEN NO ‘CHANGE IN Mi
PERO. AT FS"STILL, CHARACTERIZED “BY-EXCCPTIONAL “PROFICIENCY

QE A HiGHty MOTIVATED, | 97 HARD -WORKING -ANO. CEPENDABLE: OFFICERS bei eee

|Since sorninc IW in June 1967 He vias SAVED ON A ROTATING SCHCOULE WiTH sevENOeHER
OFFICERS OOING.VOENTICAL WORK, “THREE ‘OF WHOM ARE CURRENTLY IN GRADE’ GS=14 AND ONE
AN GRADE -GS-15. THERE HAVE BEEN AS MANY AS Five GS-1h officERS SERVING AT THE SAME ||)
TIME AS.MR. Hicks. He WAS, THEREFORE,’ BEEN PERFORMING DUTIES CONMENSURATE WITH A

GRADE HIGHER THAN HIS PRESENT ONES °°

His OUTGOING PERSONALITY AND EXTENSIVE KNOWLEOGE oF THE IW OPERATION-HAS GAINED HIN
THE CONFIDENCE AND RESPECT OF NOT ONLY HIS COLLEAGUES BUT ALSO OF THE NUMEROUS DiVI=

SION REPRESENTATIVCS WITH WHOM HE-OCALS.

Hc HAS NO SUPERVISORY DUTICS AND 1S CoST CONSCIOUS;

THERE HAS BCEN. FREQUENT CONSULTATION WITH NR. HICKS CONCERNING THE PERFORMANCE OF

HIS OUTIES.

BY EMPLOYEE
TCERTIFY THAT 1 HAVE SEEN SECTIONS A, B, AND C OF THIS REPORT.

ae ighATORE OF EMOLOTEE
-|__ 31 Decemser 1970 Labs eh,
2. BY SUPERVISOR, ii

WONT HE EMPLOYER HAS BEEN ]i¥ THIS REPORT WAS NOY GEEN SHOWN TO EMPLOYEE, GIVE EXPLANATION
UNDER MY SUPERVISION

16 MonTHS

Bare

TSN FNTTS WaeE BND TONATORE
“31 Drcemoce 1970 | Cuier, Inreuuraence WaToH Pat gb firetecen hy
a. BY REVIEWING OF FICIAL TPR
 OuMENTS OF REVIEWING OF FETT

: While I am physically separated from this officer and not in daily
contact with him or his work,, all secondary evidences are that this is
a conservative but generally accurate evaluation,

ar FICIRL TITLE OF SUPERVITOR

eave

12 Jan 1971

C/EIANT =P

: "SECRET. SLED ¥. Thiele



FITNESS REPORT re 056361

SECTION A : oS nena

T NAME ainsi

3 OFFICIAL Position THFLE
Watch Ofricer
B. CHEGR Ux TYE OF APPOINTMENT,
XK jesaeee jekeenve™
jeaneen
[ere eran (Srecttnie
DATE REPORT OVE Im 0,
Januany

io) CURRANT STATION

vi | osp7e Lint {w= = teaogudnrens

7 18. CHECK U4) TYPE OF REPORT

minec ares one
K farwuae

[ap ee ran pectin :
F wEPORTinG PERIOD (Prams to) 7

August = "31 Decevivcr

jovisiowat (see

‘of the action
‘ochon Palen

vp to six of the mast lmpartént
inner in which emmploywe performs EACH specific duty. Cons
abilities MUST be rated on their ability to, s0p

NOTHING IN. THE CHECK LIST of Functions (CS1-20-24]] Ceires
Tue cLosest is Reports Orricer Activities

GARNBMERERNMEA OTE: Tere 15
wich ADEQUATCLY covers Mry HieKs,
(D010). His specsesc ourits Anet
Spec,Oury Nowl--Prepants TD O1SSCMINATIONS FROM CABLED FIELO INFOMATION REFORTS
SHBASNENABAHSEZ pe_cascs THEN TO U.S, InTELLIGcnce, COMMUNITY, EXPCDITING THEIR | Cay
Jocciveny ey ELeéTel cA TRANSMISSION, WHEW APPAOPAIATC.

Spec.Dut¥. No.2--RELEASES JENURRIED CABLES AS DISSCMINATIONS TO TNTCL.CONMUNITY,
INTERPRETING BROAD FI/O INSTRUCTIONS ON VARIOUS CATEGORIES OF CABLES 0) SSENINATE
sPecirie OUTY HO. F2=CONSULTS WITH AREA DIVISION, OFFICERS DURING OFF-DUTY HOURS, AS
NECESSARY, TO INSURE ADEQUATE PROTECTION OF ‘SOURCES ANO METHOOS WITH MINIMUN .
IMPALRMENT TO THE VALUE OF THE INFORMATION REACHING POLICY LEVELS. s

ferrea

SPECIFig OUT WO-4—-AOVISES AND ASSISTS AREA DIVISION OFFicEAS OURING OFF DUTY HOURS | TRIES
IN THE PREPARATION OF TD DISSEMINATIONS BASED ON INFORMATION OTHER THAN THAT CON’
TAINED JN IICOMING CABLED FICLO INFORMATICN REPORTS, Pp

SPecing Ooty ne. S=-SLEKS AND, RESPONDS TO GUIDANCE COncERMING THE HOST EFFECTIVE mine
SERVICING’ OF THE INTEL 4CONMUNITY, INCLUDING THE WHITE House SiTUATIoN RooN, WITH
CLANDESTINE SERVI CE-ACQUIRED INFORMATION ANO PROVIDES AFTER-HOURS ADVICE ON DIS=
SENINATION POLICY ANO PROccOURES TO THE CS/D0 oN REQUEST. s
SPECIFIC OUTY HO. @==FACILITATES AND WAINTAINS GOOD WORKING RELATIONS WITH CABLE FANS

SECRETARIAT Ano SIGNAL CENTER AT ALL LEVELS TO EXPEDITE DISSEMINATION OF SIGNI=
FICANT REPORT: ! s

6ST 7 OVERALL PERFORMANCE IN CURRENT POSITION

Into account everything obs hia current position such

formance of specific duties, pre personal, waits or hobite,

ular Tien during the rating
Tovel of

terren

Ss



eee maihicant stra
scperiomanke. Sole bugee ras mae fv Sirians io
gm seeeian language competance, >

Nae Hiexs? PERF Seman ZE-SENINS UNDER MY,’SUPERVISION HAS CONTINUED. -
AT Tse SANE HIGH LeveL wees IN.HI1S CAST. F: TESS oAaporrdi! He exeRcrses GREAT “CARE |

AND ATTENTION TO THE MURITGOE OF CETAILS SUALLeO. iN THE PRocessinG. oF INTEL, caaces.
He WeSAs WELL UNDER PRESSURE ANO 1S CENSEN.AL ANO TACTFUL IN DEALING WITH DIVISIONAL

peagoimens | : Par . ee

nis. Tour im IW wise 22 EeTenDeD Fos, awgtnen Two Yeads. «Hts conr NuED* ‘PRESENCE
IN UR WILL BE OF MIESTEMASLE VALUE TO NEW GEELCERS WHO WICL BE vounita THE Inreuuis
SENSE WATCH AS OTHESS. ARE REASSIGNED' OR RETIAES

ST STRONGLY RECCIRENE THAT _HE BE RECSSITEREO FOR PROMOTION TO GS-14, THERE 1s
NO'SUESTION THAT HE raz SLEW PERFORMING AT.THIS LEVEL FOR A CONSIDERABLE PERIOD OF
TAME, : ;

There has been Preqrent eomaultetion Aah, ‘Hicks concerning” hia performance
of his duties, bas uo supervisory est se ant is cost-conscious.

CERTIFICATION AND COMMENTS

PGERTIFY THAT 1 HAVE SEE SECTORS A, B, AND C-OF THIS REPORT,
Taigsa rune ov Ewe aves

wuaey 1970 | Kage ;

BY SPERISOR
[pcese aac ees neers srr Geemetet ante extention

CoST SU EWPUSIFE was ob ew
SSSA SET

akwo. |

THEIL TTER OF Bate ee

TNTED wawe AND SIGNATURE

hl Yreretcce.~

JOSEPH Ay PROCACCINO F

January 1976 Caper /Intzsuzseucs WATCH |

BY SEVIEWAG.CFFICIAL,

SOME TTT OF RE

I do not know Yr. Hicks well havin: teen assigned to the PI staff only a
relatively short pericd of time, plas she fact that direct contacts with officers
of the Intelligence ‘atch sre not alvers frequent owing to their schedules, I
would concur howeve> in the rating =né serra tive comments above in view of my
Sovuledge of the swrervisora.

sare TOEFEaC PPLE SF SEES W NT SEFICIAT zi

20 Jamary 1970 | Deguty chtet, PITT i
“=r



se :
SECRET.

ean Ful ted WD

FATNESS REPORT :

GENERAL

Wor iciaL POSITION. TITLE

WATCH OFFICER

1_Jan 196) » 12 Aug 1389

PERFORMANCE EVALUATION :

10 slightly leas than sorieleciorys A this category roauives
Ce reining piating on

in Section Conn

icthon could range’ from counsall
jarment ef fo seperation. Describe oction taken or prope!
either by deligioney noe

ts entirely soristactory ond'ts choracter

Perforinonze rang
itive romedial

Performance Ia characterlted by excapitonsl proficiency.
0 + Quistanding: Performance 1s s0 axceptlonel In relation to requirements of the work ond In comparison to the'parfarmance. of
others doing simitor wark ax 10. worrant apectol recognition,

SPECIFIC DUTIES

ing letter which beer deecriber
nee ct thot duty, All om

WATR:
tarven

SPECIFIC DUTY NO: PREPARES TD DISSEMINATIONS FROM CABLED FIELD INFORMATION REPORTS
AND RELEASES THEM TO THE,U.S. INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY. FORTHE CLANDESTINE SER
VICE, EXPEDITING THEIR DELIVERY BY ELECTRICAL TRANSMISSION WHEN. APPROPRIATE y-;

PPeSiPIG OUTYNS-2 RELEASES: JBHURRIEO CABLES AS DISSEMINATIONS TO THE INTELLIGENCE | Cérres
COMMUNITY, INTERPRETICH BROAD. INSTRUCTIONS FROM F1/D ON VARIOUS CATEGORIES OF
CABLES DISSEMINATED. .

PPPECIS PUFY NS"? CONSULTS WITH AREA DIVISION OFFICERS DURING OFF-DUTY HOURS, AS | Cé¥rie
NECESSARY, TO INSURE ADEQUATE ‘PROTECTION OF SOURCES AND METHODS WITH MINIMU4
IMPAIRMENT TO THE VALUE OF THE INFORMATION REAGHING POLICY LEVELS.

TPECIPIE DUTY NOs Bc

‘ ADVISES AND ASSISTS AREA DIVISION OFFICERS DURING OFF-OUTY HOURS

“IN THE PREPARATION OF TD DISSEMINATIONS BASED ON INFORMATION OTHER THAN THAT
CONTAINED IN INCOMING CABLED FIELD REPORTS. Pp

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 3 SEEKS AND RESPONDS TO GUIDANCE CONCERNING THE MOST EFFECTIVE carrie

SERVICING OF THE INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY, INCLUDING THE WHITE HOUSE SITUATION

ROOK a CLANDESTINE SERVICE-ACQUIRED meas AND. PROVIDES AFTER-HOURS s

LES.

Rayna
cerren

fas FACILITATES AND MAINTAINS GOOD WORKING RELATIONS WITH CABLE
SECRETARIAT AND SIGNAL CENTER AT ALL LEVELS TO EXPEDITE DISSEMINATION Lt gae
s

SIGNIFICANT

aaTING
ferrer

Jythtng sbovs the employee which Influences his eflectivangss |
sates productiviny, condycr on Job, cooparativens soy pettinant personal er?

‘0h your kno} ‘employs formance duneg the rating
gortesponding to the stotemdnt whick most dccutately fellects his bevel of performance.

rome oe
TOP" 45. vie previous corrions



“SECRET \

‘thete rolotion ship te
ining. Coren est
provide best

genetieon du nae
eget space Ta needed te tore

a MRS Hicks HAS BEEN ‘Aware OFFICER IN IW wi ld wt ‘Bus aD ISA

DEPENDABLE AND) THOROUGHLY ‘RELIABLE MEMBER: OF THE TEAM: HE HAS “A: FINE OPERATIONAL 7

BACKGROUND AND! A ‘KEEN SENSE OF SECURITY.” HIS- JUOGME} I{..1S VERY SOUND. AND HE FAR EXCEEDS,
HIS Position IN THE EXTENT :OF- HIS. ROL NATION WITH THE AREA ol hg

HOW TO BALANCE CUSTOMER [NEED FOR ENLIGHTENMENT on’ “SOURCES, TO THE AGENCY'S
REQUIREMENTS FOR SOURCE PROTECTION. HE STANDS. UP WELL UNDER ‘PRESSURE, 1S COOPERATIVE
‘AND! CONGENIAL:. HE HAS BEEN’ RECOMMENDED) (FOR . PROMOTION: TO"GS-1% THREE TIMES DURING
HIS TOUR IN IW°AND IT “IS. REGRETTABLE THAT AT, HAS NOT BEEN POSSIBLE TO PROMOTE HIM.
HIS PERFORMANCE IS.-SIMLLAR TO THAT OF. HIS: COLLEAGUES WHO ARE IN GRADE GS-14,

NEITHER cost CONSCIOUSNESS NOR SUPERVISION ISA Relea IN HIS PERFORMANCE.

TON AND COMMENTS:

BY EMPLOYEE
TCESTIFY THAT I HAVE SEEN SECTIONS A, 8, AND C OF THIS REPORT.

: ener :
[12 weust i969. “foe he KEG

EN BY SUPERVISOR
MONTHS EMPLOVEE WAS BEEN i THIS REPORT WAS HOT BEEN SHOWN TO EMPLOYER, GIVE EXPLANATION

UNDER MY SUPERVISION

TAC TITLE OF SUPERVISOR le ‘GR PRINTRO NAME ANG SIGNATURE

Eichmann WNT EK,

INTE
BY REVIEWING OFFICIAL,

‘CONUENTS OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

sonatane

TOPPIETALVITCE OF ReviEwinG OFFICIAL |Tv

Chief, FI/INT
SECRET



feurcover seaiay yuuse®

O56361

“GENERA:

Tea [i oste gv emtm ph a Gmaoe 1390

ha aft av, 1004 Tf Gents |

veoWwian OF ane CURRENT STATION

ATS

Spo Tyee oF

Tanwuee

24. Cot ober 1968

“PERFORMANCE EVALUATION.

from wholly inodequate to slightly teas thon satisfoctory. A 8 estegory requires
he acti ig, to further Waining, to placing on
c

in oF proposed In Sectl

more then satistectory. Desired result: being produced in.d piolicient mamer.
Porlormance is characterized by exceptional pioticianey.

0 - Quastonding Performance is s¢ excepiionat in.r 126f the: werk end In comparison to the perloemanca of

others doing similar work ax to worrent special recognition.

SPECIFIC OUTIES

List up to sis
manner in w

with supeevi fon theit ability to superviee (indicate number of employees nuparvieed).

bss the

e
duty. LY formance of that duty. All employees,

" Prepares TD'diseeninetions ‘fron.cabled field informtion reports
and relessés then to the U.". Aintellicence cormunity for the Clendestine Ser-
vice, expediting their delivery by electrical trencmission when epproprintecy »:

PPRCIIECUTTNG® Detcanen STSLTRID enbles as dirseainations to ‘the intelligence
cormunity, interpreting broad instructions fron TIA on various. categories of
cables disséninated.

seeeiric OUT NO Conculta with aree Ci-icion officers during off-duty hourr, 35

necésonry, to insure adequate protection of sci an? methods vith. ninimn
Ainpoiment to the value of the inforn-tion reaching policy levels,

SPECIFIC OUTYNO-* Adviegs and assists nree division officerr during off-duty hours
th the prenaration of TD dirserinetions tased on information otner then thet
contained in incoming, eebled field reports.

SPECIFIC DUTY NO-® Seen end rerponds te imuicance concerning the noct effective
servicing of the intelligence community, inéluding the thite House fitustion
Foon, with Clandestine fervice-ncquired infoznetion end provides after-hours

San

maTiNg
Cerrte

eavice on dirseninet cr pr request
PrESIPNE BUTT WO. * raceittates and maintains good working relations vith Cable
Secretariat afd Signal Center at all Levels to expedite dissemination of

elgntheant reports.

AZ OVERALL PERFORMANCE IN-CURRENT POSITION

ithing cbaus ihe employee which Inflvenc
tye eondyed on ob pertinent personal wa

ened on sour knowledge’ sf wa Overall performance during the’ rating period,

h most accurately reflects his level of performance.

cerree



[Section ec:
7d tndicare ‘wgniticont marks or secknnants Temenat
erence: Sots sesyesien

sense of opersticael security which ts of

judment ‘on dissentnétion matters, He: hes an instinet for pronpt recornition

eben Gases eni is iseginntive in-l4s aprroach to problens of under-enlighten-
f the resiler en? the opposite ‘extreme’o? Lax source protection,

is carat! and geticutous in bie! vork, level headed and‘ sound in his juégnents,
knows how to balance the curtémer, derwnd for sreed and enlightenment against the
ually important dennnis for source protection, He stands’ up well under pressure,
is cooperative ané songeriiel vith hie colteagues ad vith ‘the divisional. personnel

vith whom he 48 in comsct. ” :

Neither cost conscloushess nor supervision is e factor in his performance.

CERTIFICATION, AND COMMENTS
‘BY ENPLOYEE
T CERTIFY THAT 1 HAVE SEEN SECTICNS &, 8. ANO © OF THIS RESORT.
TSUNApURE OF EMPLOYEE —
fe pitta

BY SUPERVSOR
[ THE REPORT WAS NOF BEEN SHOWN TO EMPLOYEE, GIVE EXPLANATION

,

BE ENPUOVES Was BEEN
Shey SUPERVISION.

SFRICIAL TITLE OF SUPERVISOR [FYPED OR PRINTED NAME AND SIGNATORE

28 Merch 19¢0 | Chief, SU/En/ns Aiea’
BY REVIEWING OFFICIAL

FEATS OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

T concer i: port primerily on the basis of my confidence in the
judgment of the strervts or, as I heve hed no oprortunity to evaluste closely
the performance of individusl officers in the fi intelligens se ‘atch, Such direct.
contects as I heve hed with Mr. Hicks heve ¢ f the overall rating

SPFIEIAL TITLE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL [TYPE

| 26 Yereh ogo | chiet, PI/ne
‘ * SECRET



[roareneronr ove mop.

bee KISR RIERA ANOTE ;~-BB30, 15: THE CLOSEST QUALIFICATION CODE TO DESCRIBE THE

OELETES: ANY SENSITIVE OPERATIONAL DATA BEFORE ANY DISTRIBUTION IS MADE, EFFECTS

SECRET

Caned Filta 13) acai

FITNESS REPOR

|SECTION.A aaa z GENERAL,

TE GAO OF eit [SER ;

“im GS-13

TeNAME 7.) (hast)

Th SP OWW/aR OF ASMONMENT]E: CURRENT SFATION

-DOP/EL/INT/ IW Ls |

Wier cnech0 TYPE OF REPORT

Po rrat

TpeatnonnienF our envisanl

[ox eeuae

Brecia (Speci:

TW. REPORTING PERIOD Cren= 1o

=—31.OcT 1971

_. 39 Nov la7i 1 way
SECTION B PERFORMANCE EVALUATION

UUnansfoctory ‘ungeeeptable. A rating in this category
/ i couneling to further aming, fo placing on probation, to reanignnent or Ye separation. Des
tion,

Performance is deficient in tome oxpects. The reasons for atngming thus rating should be stated in Sechon Cand remiediat actions

__ taken or recommended should be desenbed,
% E Detived results are being produced in the manner expected,
Performance it chaiacterned by exceptional prof

Performance it 10 «1
work a4 fo worrant ps

TSPECIFIC DUTIES

List up 10 six’ol the-most important apecitic duties perfgemed during the rating period. I
rennet in which employee performs EACH soncific duty. Consider ONLY effectiveness in perl
supervisory responsibilities MUST ‘on theit ability #0 supervise (Indicate number of amplove

WORK-OF A WATCH “OFFICER/
11 PREPARES "TD DISSEMS, FROM INTEC CABLES" AND RELEASES THEM TO THE U.S. INTEL

R THE CS_EXPEDITING THEIR DELIVERY BY ELECTRICAL TRANSMISSION

PRROKROKAR_VHEN-APPROPRIATE, ALSO DISSEMS CERTAIN FI/D_ CABLES
22° CONSULTS WITH AREA DIVISION: OFFICERS, AS NECESSARY IN HIS JUOGMENT; REGARDING
DISSEMINABILITY OF THE INFO AND “TO INSURE ADEQUATE PROTECTION OF SOURCES AND

RMENT TO INFO REA
2 REVIEWS SUPDATA AND AUTHENTICATION STATEMENT IN INTEL CABLES AND

DISTRIBUTION OF THE DELETED PORTION WITHIN THE DOP ON A STRICT NEED TO KNOW

Raving
Cetren

Ss.

SreciFiC OUTY NO-4 KEEPS CURRENT ON THE GENERAL AND SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS OF CUSTOMER
AGENCIES INCLUDING THE WHITE HOUSE FOR CABLED INFO, 1.£., INFO ON NARCOTICS,
HIJACKING, PROTECTION OF U.S. AND FOREIGN DIGNITARIES, ETC.

RATING
ferrth

Is

SPECIFIC OUTY NO. AFTER HOURS, GRANTS CLEARANCES CIN CONSULTATION WITH RESPONSIBLE
AREA DIVISION) FOR: THE USE OF DISSEMED CS INFORMATION IN FINISHED INTEL PUBLICA-
TIONS IN A MANNER DENIED BY DISSEMINATION CONTROLS.

ferren

iS.

SPECIFIC OUTY NO. ® MAINTAINS GOOD WORKING RELATIONS NOT ONLY WITH DDP AREA
DIVISIONS AND STAFF, BUT WITH SIGNAL CENTER AND CABLE SECRETARIAT AT ALL LEVELS
TO EXPEDITE THE DISSEM OF SIGNIFICANT, REPORTS; WORKS CLOSELY WITH CSDOS AND SO0S

WATE
Cath

| Toke inte account

Jas pore
ince of speci
porticuler limitations
ploce the letter in the

of emplsyee's overall performance dusting the rating period,
orresponding to'the statement which moat accurately reflects his level of performance.

=e es SECRET

Rating
errer

Ss



. SECR eT . pene ;

CHARRATIVE COMMENTS :

‘elation ship te

a ae
Section'C; Was HICKS CQNTINGES TO, TURN IN * EXCELLET T ALL-AROUND.
PERFORMANCE... HE EXERCISES-“A’ VERY HIGH DEGREE OF PROFESSIONAL JUDGMENT: IN CARRY ING OUT
> JEHIS DUTIES. .HE/IS ALERT,- CONSCIENTIOUS, STRONG-WILLED AND STRAIGHTFORWARD SUT VERY
| PLEASANT. I!" DEALING WITH PEOPLE OF ACL LEVELS.“
an BECAUSE OF HIS: CONSTANT: AWARENESS : THAT-CS..REPORTS” MAY.’FALL -IN UNAUTHORIZED. HANDS,
| MR: HICKS HAS BEEN.MOST ‘EFFECTIVE IN°MAINTAINING SECURITY DISCIPLINE iN.THE REVIEW |.
“OF THE: INTEL CABLES, PARTICULARLY THE AUTHENTICATION STATEMENTS TO IRSURE- THAT ANY DAT/
WHICH 'MAY PRESENT A SECURITY HAZARD ‘TO THE. SOURCE, IS OMITTED 'FROM THE DISSEMINATION
OF THE INFORMATION,

MR, HICKS HAS BEEN WETH. THE INTELLIGENCE WATCH SINCE JUNE 1967. HIS, OVERALL PER+
FORMANCE HAS BEEN CONSISTENTLY CHARACTERIZED BY EXCEPTIONAL PROFICIENCY. HE “HAS FOR
SEVERAL YEARS BEEN PERFORMING DUTIES COMMENSURATE’ WITH A GRADE HIGHER THAN HIS PRESENT
ONE. -A, CONCERTED. EFFORT SHOULD. BE -MADE TO:PROMOTE HIM TO A GS-14, HE HAS BEEN PUT .
IN FOR PROMOTION AS AN INTELLIGENCE WATCH OFFICER SINCE 1968.
<2. WITH THE RETIREMENT AND REASSIGNMENT OF SEVERAL IW OFFICERS, BY NEXT YEAR, HE
WILL-BE THE IW OFFICER WITH, THE MOST. CONTINUITY ON. THE JOB. “THIS WILL BE A GREAT ASSET
TO IW AND IN PARTICULAR TO THE NEWER OFFICERS WHO WILL. PROFIT FROM HIS EXPERTENCE.

ATTACHED TO THIS FITNESS REPORT [S A RECENTLY PREPARED POSITION DESCRIPTION OF AN
IW OFFICER WHICH CHARACTERIZES MR, HICKS IN EVERY RESPECT. THIS DESCRIPTION SHOULD.
HELP TO BETTER APPRECIATE THE (MPORTANCE THAT THE DDP-ATTACHES TO THE FUNCTION’ AND
RESPONSIBILITIES OF IW* OFFICERS AS WELL AS THE SCOPE AND COMPLEXITY OF THE WORK.

IT IS NOT EASY TO FIND SUITABLE OFFICERS TO SERVE IN iW. IT CALLS FOR INDIVIDUALS
WHO ARE HIGHLY MOTIVATED, WITH MATURITY OF JUDGMENT, TEMPERAMENT, -MANNER AND BEARING
TO WITHSTAND THE RIGORS OF SHIFT WORK, ANO ABOVE _ALL TO MAINTAIN’ CORDIAL RELATIONS

SECTION D ~ CERTIFICATION AND COMMENTS SEE ATTACHED PAGE
if a

BY EMPLOYEE
T CERTIFY THAT | HAVE SEEN SECTIONS A, 8, AND C OF THI REPORT

"MORPH PP caivin ws wicks Cabo AAP

MONTHS EMPLOYEE NAS BEEN iF Tuis REPORT WAS NOT BEEN SnOwN TO ENPLOVEE, GIVE EXPLANATION
UNGER MY SUPERY'SION i

26,

‘DATE SFFIEIRT TITCE OF SUPERVISOR TV OF saiNTED Nae an SieNATONE
28 OCTOBER 1972 ELZINT/ TW H ey A

BY REVIEWING OFFICIAL

COmuENTE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

I fully enderse the ratings and the narrative. We shall
continue to try to promote Mr, Hicks in recognition of his |

ability and of his service.

SECRET



sy

CALVIN mcs SECTION C CONTINIED .

WITH PEOPLE- AT ALL Levels’ IN EXPEDITING THe. BusseminaTicN’ OF INTEL CABLES nN
A 24-HOUR BASIS.
THE ASSIGNMENT CARRIES. NO SUPERVISORY RESPONSIBILITIES AND DOES NOT
REQUIRE’ ANY SIGNIFICANT DEMONSTRATION OF COST. CONSCIOUSNESS.
“THERE HAVE BEEN FREQUENT CONSULTATIONS WITH MR. HICKS CONCERNING THE
PERFORMANCE OF HIS DUTIES.

JGEPH AY
OnHTEF/ INTELLIGENCE” WATCH



: : “SECRET

Seen aeae hen cFisted Ind,

feuecovee SemIAU NUMBER

7 i i 056361). >
SECTION A : = ‘GENERAL. n ‘ a x i

~ FITNESS REPORT *

- cae Taio tiretd Tiiarey [aoa Te OF Sintw [BER :
HICKS Cauvin Ws | 8 nov igeit| M GS-13 Dd. . :
OFFigiaL POSITION TITRA = Ti Ser voivion OF Aationuent 6. CURRENT STATION? ——~
~ Watch Off iceee FIJINT/IW “+s [Has teen
Ene iq teh TPE OF AEPORT :

Tene ce UD,TYBE OF ARPOINTMENT,

1_DECO-BER i962 OCTOBER 1963
z PERFORMANCE” EVACUATION Hi

Hsbactory. “A.rating In this category requir
cling, to furrher training

janment orto seperation. Desctibe action taken oF propored Im Section G-

formance meets all requirements, It Ie ontitoly soristoctory ond te characterized neither by deficiency nor

xcellence,

olictont manner.

i more thon sactalactory. Desired resvlri'ore being produced in
_ Performance 2 characterized by exception) proflelency. if
ling Performance ie +9 exceptional in relotion to reéquiséments of the work end in compérizen to the perlormence of
othors doing similor work'gs 10 warrant spacial recognition,
SPECIFIC DUTIES.
orformed:during the tating perled: Insert rating letter which best describes the
Im performance of thot-duty. All employees
[stemplorees siperste

List up t0 sha of the siost Important spaciite d
in.whlch empl
with supervisory, responsibil

SPECIFIC DOTY Ror

FEIPIE UTS: Beepages TD O1SSEMINATIONS FROM CABLED FIELO INFORMATION REPORTS
AND RELEASES THCH TO THE U.S. INTELLIGENCE: Communi TY FOR THE CLANDESTINE SERV=
NCES, CXPEDITING THEIR DELIVERY BY ELECTRICAL TRANSMISSION WHEN APPROPRIATE, /~

SPECIFIC OVTY NOE Rei cases JBHURRIED CABLES AS DISSEMINATIONS TO THE iaeeieeiel
COMMUNITY, “INTERPRETING BROAD INSTRUCTIONS FROM FI/D ON VARIOUS CATEGORIES OF
CABLES DISSEMINATED.

waring
cerrer

s

Ce

TRECTIE BUTT NOT
ConSULTS WITH AREA Division OFFICERS DURING OFF=DUTY HOURS, AS

NECESSARY, TO INSURE ADEQUATE PROTECTION OF SOURCES AND METHODS WITH MINIMUM

IMPAIRHENT TO THE VALUE OF THE INFORMATION REACHING POLICY LEVELS. -

SPECIFIG DUTY NO. ®

AbviSES AND ASSISTS AKEA DiviSion OFFICERS DURING OFF=DUTY HOURS
IN THE PREPARATION OF TD DISSEMINAT:ONS BASED ON INFORMATION OTHER THAN THAT
CONTAINED IN INCOMING CASLED FIELD REPORTS. :

Ravina
cerven

areciic DUTY NO.® SEEKS AND RESPONDS TO GUIDANCE CONCERNING THE MOST EFFECTIVE SERV
ICING OF THE INTCLLIGCNCE COMMUNITY, INCLUDING THE Waite House Situation Room,
WITH CLANDESTINE SERVICES-ACQUIRED INFORMATION AND PROVIDES AFTER-HOURS ADVICE
OW DISSEMINATION POL: GY AND PROCcOURES To THE CSOD UPON REQUEST.

Spectre But

ss t FACILITATES AND MAINTAINS GOOD WORKING RELATIONS WITH CABLE Sece
seth at AT ALL LEVELS TO EXPEOITE O1SSEMINATION OF SIGNIFICANT REPORTS.

OVERALL PERFORMANCE IN CURRENT POSITION

In his current position such as pers
‘or habits, end
the rating poriod| = S

Toke into accouit everything sbout the employee which influences his effectivene
formance of specific duties, productivity, conduct on job, coopera

‘lar limitations of talents. Boved on your knowledge’ of employer
he lettor In the ¥

rome

TOM 45 use erdvious eorrions



. SECRET
: ce oneetes
SECTION IGeaeai

fective there relation ship te
{atléne Far treining: Comment
in ta Suetion B'ts provide be

Saacel Setions du
sce ape nee applicotiy. Il exive space is weeded tw ton

foie niet rm
cick iat Ome" e RETY 1)

E

+ Mas Hicks HAS CoNPLETEO. mis APPRENTICESHIP AND AOWANCED GY GRADUAL sTASES FROM,
ADEQUATE TO -PHOFICLENT. TO" THE -POINT WHERE HiS OVERALL -VARFQRMANCE MUST Bf OESCRIBEO
“AS STRONG? -HE BRINGS TO WS_WORK A EINC OPERATLONAL AND PARAMILITARY. BACKGROUND |
AND NE AS ADVUSTED QUICKLY ‘AND, EFFECTIVELY FROM THE OUTDOOR ACTIVE LIFE To THE-OIF
LPUGULTITS OF GECOMING CHALR=BORNE. HE’ 1S PARTICULARLY EFFECTIVE ON “Paceien™ TrPE, ’
DISSEMINATIONS WHICH -CFTEN INVOLVE TWO OR“HORC'AREA Divi sions, - He 1S ALERT To PCH,
RATIONAL OCTAILS, WHICH OCCASLONALLY SLTP. INTO "THE INTELLIGENCE PORTIONS UF CABLED '
TRAFFIC. MR. HICKS 15 A°RCAL PROFESSIONAL’ IN THE BCST, SENSE OF THE.WoND,, HE is
GARCFUL, THOROUGH, ANO:VERY PERSISTENT "IN NAKING CERTAIN THAT INTELLIGENCE f3 NANDLEO
Connectey, HE iS COURTEOUS ANO' PATIENT IN DEALING WITH PEOPLE. “He STANDS UP WELL
UNDER PRESSURE ANO 15 COMPLETELY OCPENDABLE. .

Nei tWeR COST. CONSCIOUSNESS NOR SUPERVISORY RESPONSIBILITLES 1S INYSLVEO IN May
Hicks! PRESENT POSITION. ‘

SECTION O- CERTIFICATION AND COMMENTS

tL ‘BY EMPLOYEE

TCERTIFY THAT I HAVE SEEN SECTIONS A, 6, AND C OF THIS REPORT
ware OWATORE OF EHPLOYEE

2h Ocrosen 1963 “thew 40 pho
Bs BY SUPERVISOR
‘GONT RE EMPLOV CE TAG Bae [iv rid REPORT HAG NOT OREN SHOWN TO ENPLOTER, GIVE EXPLANATION

UNGER NY SUPERVISION
uw

BATE SFFICIAL TITLE GF SUPERVIDOR

24 Ocroacr 1968 Cuter, FU/INT/IW
BY REVIEWING OFFICIAL

PRINTRO Name AND TIONATURE

samen PE mnt
2 Fowasp Jsi€assur

TPES,

3.
COMMENTS OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

On the basis of the fine performance of the IW as a group
and the high regard for the judgment of the supervisor, I
concur in the above evaluation,

OFFICIAL TITLE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL [TY]

OC/Ft

85 Octoscr 1965

SECRET : 7



i _ . SECRET

ie : (intn Fitted tnd 7

“FITNESS REPORT
’ SECTION A — z GENERAL

7 : Wiraiey 8. OMT OFS

CHYOSS “i  Cauvin We or BD NSy 1924. M2 | GS-1 £

7 orncaC resp TTS 2 z nMEnT Wr COMRENT BTATION ~
Grrieen 2 i

peteuan

FEL DATE REPORT. VE IN'O.PL: HE ig t PREaTINS fet E100 (Fram- ton) :
3] ZANUARY 1968 oa be eS] Oecempen 1967
fiat PERFORMANCE EVALUATION ate
Trort wholly | (A veting In this cotegory Fr
tion. The not ¢ ve heather ralning To placing
iran, to reaselgnment oF 10,30 in Section
Setermance meets ell requirements. It is entirely tl

sfactory. Desired rosults.ore baing produced In'e picliciant manneé.
Jed by oxcostional profietency.

Pastormince 12 20 exceptional iq relotion,to requirements of the work end in-comporlson
Her work a2 to worrant special recognition.

1 performed during the
ie duty. Consider ONLY

a TH

SEE NOTE ON REVERSE SICE OF THIS FORM,

aatine
cnivin

zaring

—
=

OVERALL PERFORMANCE IN CURRENT POSITION. .

: waTINa
ployee which influenc in hie currant position serren
ty, conduet on job, cooper pertinent ‘par sonal traits or by

‘on your knowle 5 evarall petformans

IQR 45. vee pneccqus sorions



SECTION

SECRET

: eaten FI) e

gent: wiecgthe or
overall performance. Seers

0
boaie for devermining future pestonnel ction. ‘uiner

Seana it

My assum

SUCH SHORT.

"Ober Were toletion ship
nee: “Give regérm entation’ for Wining. Comment

inet Sect

ent as Gsnee/IW, errective 13 Novemoce Sc], HAS BEEN OF,

DURAT cw THAT’ CANNOT AT THIS TMC “ADD ANY THING--EXCERT

THAT | AM IN GENEERL AGHEEMENT THEREWI THeeTo Tt F cxess ReoRT
For Mee Hicns stseitreo oy my prEoecesson, Mas R:craxo. A. Fuven,
Riop 5 Jum “THROUGH 12 NovemBER 1967.

FOR IME PE!

SECTION D

CERTIFICATION AND COMMENTS
BY EMPLOYEE

TCERTIFY THAT HAVE SEEN SECTIONS A, 8, AND C OF THIS RESORT,

Groremnzs

ce,

BY SUPERVISOR

MONTHS EMPLOVER nas BEEN
UNDER MY SUPERVISION

1h Mo.

fi THis IVORY HAE NOT OEEN SHOWN TO EMPLOYEE, GNE EXPLANATION

oF FigieL TCE OF SUPERVIEOR

12 Jan 1963

Ger er/IW

TYPED Oa PRNTED NAME AND FIONATURE

x

BY REVIEWING OF FICIAL

Ezyaso Jy CaRRoue

COMMENTS OF REVIEDING OFFICIAL

OFFERS TLE OF REVIEWING OF FICIAL

carer, FI/INT
SECRET.

TYPED Se VENTED NAME AND SIGNATURE

hectare YE Reece



ae SECRET | .

FITNESS REPORT :
GENERAL

(iddiey "3. O4YE OF BinTH [iL GEX  ]& RADE

2S Noir 1924 | 21665+13 ) 0.

sansa Fitted toy pa

Tor rigese Position TLE CURRENT STATION

WATCH OFFICER

Wo Cneae 7) £Y68 OF APPOINTMENT

Kiesseen. [Revenve

Tesezinc Gpecliyn Tarecran ‘peed

TE werdering PemioD (Fam tod

5 dunt 1967-12 Novemeca” 1967

Ti oava sfomt DUE NOP,

PERFORMANCE EVALUATION:

Performance ranges irom wholly inodequove to slightly ta yA
posltive remedial

Ton, 10 “of 16 separetion, Desctibe'action roten or proposed In Section Ce

Fe entirely astislactory ond in characterised neither by dafletarc

Parformoncs 14 more thon sotlafactory. ‘Desirsd results ore being produced In 0 proficient manner.
Perfotmonce 1 charactorlued by exceprionsl proficiency. :
O- Qarsrending Performance ts 30 excep! quirements of the work and in comparison to the patforman
ihors doing timiter work jcial recognition.

ting in this category requir
nh could range om ¢ to furthat training, te placing

y no

0 of

SPEEP-E DUTY WO. PREPARES TD DISSEMINATIONS FRON'CABLED FILLD INFORMATION RUPOSTS
AN AELEASES THEM TO THE US, 1NTCLLIGENCE CommuNITY FOR THC CLANDESTINE SERV=

ICES, EXPCDITING THEIR DELIVERY BY ELECTRICAL TRANSMISSION WHEN APPROPRIATE

areca SuTV NGF RELEASES, JOFURRIED CABLES AS DISSEMINATIONS TO THE INTELLIGENCE
| Commas: tYy INTERPRETING BROAD INSTRUCTIONS FROM FI/D ON. VARIOUS CATEGORES OF

CAELES DISSEMINATED,

Barina
Cerren

SPECIE DTI NO.® CONSULTS WITH ARCA DIVISION OFFICERS CURING OFF-DUTY HOURS, AS
ESERRY, TO INSURE ADCQUATC PROTECTIGH OF “SOURCES AND METHODS WITH MIiI NUN
AMess MENT TO THE VALUE OF THE INFGRMATION REACHING POLICY LEVELS.

fsPeeivec out No.4 ADVISES ANO ASSISTS AREA DIVISION OFFICERS DURING OFF-DUTY HOURS
I Txt PREPARATION OF TD DISSEMINATIGNS BASED ON INFORMATION OTHER THAN THAT
CONTSINCO IN VNCOMENG CABLED FIELD REPORTS.

start

SPEC DUTY NO. 8 SEEKS AND RESPONDS TO GUIDANCE CONCERNING THE MOST EFFECTIVE SERV
1Gi%e CF THE INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY, INCLUDING THE WHiTe House SiTUATION Room,
WiTe C.ANDESTINE SERVICES-ACQUIRED 1KFORMATION PROVIDES AFTERHOURS ADVICE
ON S:SSEMINATION POLICY AND PROCEOUFES To THE CSDO on REQUEST.

aaTiNG
Cerrer

We DUTY NO. ©
FACILITATES AND MAINTAINS GOOD WORKING RELATIONS WITH CABLE Sec~

RETAGAT AT ALL LEVELS TO EXPEDITE DISSEMINATION OF SIGNIFICANT REPORTS.

TE GACY Vas? OVERALL PERFORMANCE IN CURRENT POSITION

Toke wee nccount hing about the employee which influences his eHoctiveness In his current position such
formerce of. specific Productivity, condyet on jot, coaperstivensss, pettinent per vencl, Waits or habit sl

servicer Iiminotions or volar. Bovad on yout Knowledge’ of employee's, overcll performance, dung the rating period
lace vhe letter in the rating box corresponding te the statement which most eceutataly toflacte his level

Foe 45 use eaavious corrions SECRET:

Ravine
| terren

P



NARRATIVE ‘COuwe NTS"

8 demonstrated ih Exmwnt postin Keep ny In proper parepective’ thi
tot pea tiers Mive'tecemmendations for
8X Sai

gain trengihe or weokoe
evil pertgemsnees” Stove sagae
See eee eames
ae be der
Sen

er Nae Hicks® TENURE IN TW-HAS BCEN erin 2: ah 5 A RCALSEVALUATION OF iS PES
Eoswancts NORMALLY, ANVEXPCRI ENCED, -oFFIN TR CREGUIAES THREE MONTHS’ ON=THE-VOB TRAINING
PLUS ABOUT THE''SANE’ AMOUNT, OF TIME” ON “SHIFT BEFORE ME 1S REAOY TO COPLy WITHOUT STRONG
SYPPOAT OR SUPERVISION, ‘WITH’ ALU THE Baceccusuqinvetito WITH THIS aSSIGNHCHT. Ma.Hi cas
WSINEO THE UNIT ON 5 JUNE, COMPLETED A SNSRTENEO OUT “PERI00 AND “‘HAS'BECN ON SHIFT ONLY
SINCE CATE SuMNcR: HC HAS APPLICD HiRSELF WITH OICIGENCE. TO LEARNING THE PRINCIPLES,
ANG TECHNIQUES OF TO DISSEMINATIONS FROM CABLED FIELD INFORMATION -RCPORTS: AcTHOUGN
ENPERI ENCED OPERATIONALLY, HE HAS, QUITE NATURALLY LACKEO THE DETAILED KNOWLEDGE: THAT
“Tuis gos REQUIRES. HE HAS MADE VERY GRATIFYING PROGRESS, BUT HE STILL MUST MASTER
(RNOWLEOGE IN DEPTH PECULIAR TO. THE IW FUNCTION; WHILE | -HAVE'NO DOUBTS THAT HE’ CAN
HANOLE ROUTINE DISSEMINATION MATTERS WITHSUT MUCH DIFFICULTY, AND SOME "PROBLEM" D1S~
SEMINATION CASES, HE HAS YET TO MEETA. REAL CA1SIS SITUATION WHEN HE 1S OW DUTY,BY Hime
Stirs. | THINK HE HAS MOVED FROM ADEQUACY. OF PERFORMANCE TO PROFICICNCY=-1T BEING VERY
DIFFICULT TO DRAW A LINE BETWEEN THE TWO--ANO HE 1S LARGELY BEYOND THE POINT WHERE HE
NEEDS CLOSE SUPERVISION. HE WILL PROBABLY GEA STRONS-OFFICCR GIVEN TIME. HE’ HAS
ADAPTED WELL TO THE PRESSURES OF THIS ASSIGNMENT ANO APPLARS TO HAVE THE PHYSICAL ASO
MENTAL STAMINA TO WITHSTAND ITS. RIGORS. HE 1S EXTREMELY CONSCIENTIOUS AND VERY ACCON=
SODATING IN ACCEPTING SCHEDULE CHANGES KECESSITATEO BY THE ILLNCSS On ABSENCE CF MIS
FeLicw OPRKGKAS. He GETS ALONG WELL WITH CABLE SccRETARLAT PCRSOMNCL, WITH WHOM IW:
MUST WORK VERY CLOSELY, BECAUSE OF AN CLTGOING AND FR!CNOLY PERSONALITY. HE RESPONGS
WELL TO DIRECTION. IAM SURE THAT HIS COCPERATIVE ATTITUDE HAS CONTRI'BUTEO TO: THE
“SHCOTH CPERATION OF THE OFFICE. “THIS ASSIGNMENT CARRIES NO SUPERVISORY RESPONSIBILITIE
AND ODES NOT REQUIRE ANY SIGNIFICANT DEM:NSTRATION CF COST CoUSCI OUSHESS.
CERTIFICATION AND COMM! ENTS _

ey ERPLOTEE

TCERTIFY THAT U HAVE SEEN SECTIONS 48, AnD C OF THIS REPORT

PET FR ds aT IO ;
: Es : z BY SUPERVISOR

SONTRS EMPLOYEE WAS BEEN [iF Yrid REPORT HAS NOT SEEN SHOWN TO EUPLOVER, GIVE EXPLANAT
UNDER MY SUPERVISION eee ian

5

oare OFFICIAL TITCE OF SUPEAVISOR ees Eo WANE oa

16 Nov 1967 ' ae A hee

Cer, FI/UNT/IW
ry BY REVIEWING OF FICIAL idabiisaia +Fotcer

FEOUMENTS OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL :

TYPED OR PRINTED NAME AND SIGNATURE?

sare OFFICIAL TITLE GF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

Carer, FU/UNT

SECRET.



CONFIDENTIAL
(When Zili-4 in)

TRAINING REPORT

“ (3569) | : : os ‘
GRID SEMINAR (50 hours), | DATES: 2-7 February 1969

MANAGERIA
Student \..: Calvin W. Hicks “Citige es ae
~~ Year of Birth: , 1924 : Service Designation; D. 7

Grade “No, of Smdente : 43

: .g8-13
ECD Date. : July 1958

” €OURSE. CBJECTIVES AND METHOD.

Course objectives are to did participants to: ‘learn the managerial theori
contained in the Grid; understand their personal managerial styles in Grid
teri evaluate convictions about managerial values; develop team action
‘skillg; increase candidness of communication; strengthen the use of critique
for problem-solving’ and learning; and acquire an appreciation of Organization
Custure and Development, f

The method of learning offers a challenge to all participants regardless of
level or experience.. A Grid;Seminar’is not "taught" in'the usual sense. In
Grid teams, participants solve complex management problems. -Cbjective
solutions are made available, Individual and-team performance is repeatedly
assessed, Various measuring instruments are used to evaluate effectiveness.

Critique sessions assist each participant to understand how he might
change his own behavior to increase his problem-solving effectiveness. Thus
managers are not told the best way. to manage, but they learn by convincing

themselves.

About twenty to thirty hours of study are completed as prework. Insights
gained are deepened and personalized during. the intensive 50-hour Seminar,

ACHIEVEMENT RECORD

This is a certificate of attendance only. No attempt was made to evaluate
student achievement in this course,

FOR THE DIRECTCR CF TRAINING:

10 FEB 1969
wate

Cnet Instructor

CONFIDENTIAL
(When filled in)



. 2 Prisca) oe Zz
; - EmpcOveE FERIA WON

o : FITNESS SRErORT: ae : 7 056361
SECTION.A” see Ena Aa
+ AME Wad ra) Sweaty Fes aX Ja onace | 8:30 -

Hicks, Calvin W. LOE Nov 1924 |--Me esti D
TOF FIeinL PoniTIOW TILE : TLOPETOINToR OF ASSIGNMENT [i CURRENT 3TATION
=< Ops, Officer’ : i ‘DDP/WH/3__ “HQ i

[ie ewECR OG ENPE OF REPORT :

TcneeK XN TYPE CF APPOINTMENT
XX ]esncen Lol responiny of Pita [RGAssianwunysuPeRvison|
CAREER: PROVIBONAL (See atractine “Section C) aera Re ADstGNMaNT EMPLOVER

recta (Speclirye

seEciAG Specie)”
42, REPORTING PERIOD (From to) 7

Ticoave AgronT Out. 6. :
31 Jan 67 |" 1/66: = 12/66
SECTIONS ERFORWANCE EVALUATION 7 ;
. | Performance: je m wholly te Might sotl at he pat let yuire
eM Reserpine aan ee er CEL eC Ee rte

ybignment oF Fe seperation. Deactibe action tckon of proposed in Section Ce

Probation, ro
‘As Adogyote - Paccemance moots ell:requiraments,” It la entirely sctlsfactory ond 18 choracterlzed nelther by deficiency nor.
| arcellence.
P Proficient | Performance tx mors then sotlafactory, Desited resulta are being produced In a proficient menner,
e Sirong —_° Performance Is choractertzed by exceptional proficiency.

+ Quistending Performance 1s s9-exceptlonal In ratotion to requirements of the work arid In compailion to the performance of
others daing similar work 93 to warrant spectel recognition.

SPECIFIC DUTIES

‘20a liaportont specific dutias parfoimed during the rating period. Insert 1
10) forms EACH specific duty: Consider ONLY alfactiveneas in perlormarice of that du}
loa MUST be rated on bility to supervise

FPECIFIE COTY NOL

Headquarters case officer for al] Station|
Communist party operations, ineluding insurgency andother

related matters. Vege van P
aeeciric our at : Tae
Headquarters case officer for several operational
8

support ts, pena
Bp projects 7) 1 Eee

SPECIFIC DUTT ROS

[sPeciric Outy Nove aan
‘ terren

‘SPECIFIG DUTY NOS | RATING
Carve

SPECIFIC OUTY Hoe : RATING
: ferree

OVERALL PERFORMANCE IN CURRENT POSITION

jeloyes which Influences his effectiveness In his current position such

operativensen, pattinent pervenel als or hobity, and |
‘of employee's overall performance during the rating period S
vant high most eccuately reflects his level of pertermances

eccoutt everything obsut th
ft spectiic dutlet, productivity, conduct en job
fant or talents. Boved on your knowled

SECRET

hm


“SECTION

is eutrontbasitign hedping in pfepae pe
st cork pavovmoncee "Cied

ie period from 19 Aucust 2
“time Mit, Hicks: worked ob

bs
15 “January. | 1967 during which.
Desk.
the rating officer,

Aitiough Me. Hicks 4s aif experienced officer with strong,
“qualifications. aud abilities, it should be noted that some’ aspects.
_.of hiS present job were a new expericnce for trim, since his past
experience -has been ontirely.in tho PM.field, However, Mi, Hicks
adaptéd well and quickly to the new environrent, showd a great
deal of initiative and resourcefulness in familiar izing himself .
with the work, and by bringing sound operational and administrative
experience to bear, -carried out his duties in a thoroughly competent
manner, ‘He demonstrated uncommon ability to organize his work,
anticipate problems or requirements, ‘and take effective action
promptly, In dealings with his associates. he exercised a good
balance of persuasiveness and friendliness which paid dividends
in‘terms-of getting a job done. -He can be rélied on absolutely
to carry out a given task promptly and well,

I would welcome’ any occasion which permitted Mi, licks to
work with me again,

SECTION D_— CERTIFICATION AND COMMENTS
- BY EMPLOYEE
T CERTIFY THAT FHAVE SEN SECTIONS A, 8, AND © OF THIS REPORT
ionATURE OF EuBLovER ar ans
Calvin W. Hicks Gane

BY SUPERVISOR,
WORTH EMPLOYEE WAS BEEN iv THis HEBGAT HAS NOT BEEN SHOWN TO EUPLOYEE, GIVE EXPLANATION
UNDER My SUPERVISION Give exPu: 7

ot eg

7 OFFICIAL TITLE OF SUPERVISOR YEEO GR PRINTED NAME AND SIGNATURE

Gan. oy Chief, WH/3/c
BY REVIEWING OFFICIAL

3
fe GuuenTs Of REVIEWING OFFICIAL

Mr, Hicks is a mature and thoughtful individual who made
the switch from PM to FI activities at his own volition, He
was originally scheduled for a field assignment to a WH Station :
in the fall.of 1966, but for medical reasons will probably be
staying at Headquarters for sone time, While this restriction
may. limit his ability to get ‘that feel. for FI field operations
‘which a Headquarters desk officer should have, ‘ho has previous
field experience in:a PM capacity to compensate for this.

io OF FETAL

ore an CACM a
24 January 1967 Deputy Chief, WH/3
SECRET



oan : a SECRET See
ratte tay :

couese

7 3 STUDENT
rane a Ton, oate

eS HIOkg, “ CALY:
: Tae for definitions of protlcleney tevele) E
[a [instauctors estimate [[erticia reer

€ THTERNEDUATE

READING
arr ane
ROME TATION

[Getacine

onaERsT MOINS : E
= TANGUIGE TRAINING DOSCT IVES ARO METHODS : :

The generat aims of language training aro attaiandnt of proficiency In speaking, understanding, reading and

ariting. The specific opjectives are U1) avility to produce and distinguisn the sounds of the languages (2) avliity

: to use a steck of dasic sentences and expressions; (3). avility to recombine the clements of basic sentences and ex~
pressions and to apply them to new situations; (4) ability to comprehend the tanjuagé sroken at normal speed In vari-

jons; (5) ability to arite and réad the language commensurati: with ability to speak.

ous sits

methods used in all courses stress oral drilts.and free conversation based at frst cn memorized material and,
gt'a later stage, on varled reading matertals. written and oral tests are given at fatervals, Listening to and re~
in the Language Lad 15 essential for class preparation,

cording on tapes

: TERFORNANCE EVALUATION 2
RSs UnsaTisFAactony T SATISFACTORY EXCELLENT

acwteveuent

arrituoe

ATrENDANce

~ SrRucTORS CeTiware Orica test
Stren ELEMENTARY teteawcoraTe mice

READING x
Baitine E
PROWUNE TATION

SPERING

UNDERSTANDING

Fon THz DIRECTOR OF TRAININGE A SoT ETT SerTEaRaeT

boas 2222 toersenn SECRET. tacused tom same |



\

\ :
ie ;

‘SECRET a

seer atte te

[FITNESS REPORT ~
; GENERAL

Talis >So ‘Bina stn as ore aT TTR] RE TO
HICKS, Calvin |8 Nov. 24 ii M /68413./. ¢ D
FF BIN OR OF A’ MENT. CORRERT SATION

DDP/WH/C _[.Wash., D.C.

[We cwesd iki T vee OF eeronr

ackinaydcmysueeewiton|. ”

Rear,

Xn ttiientans enrcoves

1 January ~1965 ~ 31 December

1965

ANCE EVALUATION

‘The neture el the action could range from counseling, te Rat
Jnment of 10 seperation, Describe action token or proponed tn Section Ce

positive tomedi:
probation, to reas!

A- Adequate Performance mest

: oncellence.-
P - Prof

nt. Perléemance is more than satisfactory. Desired rosults are being produced in a.proftelont mariner.
$+ Suong Performance ts charecterized by exceptional proflelency.

iste to allahily eas than satisfactory. A rating 'n this cotegory requires
at Waining, te placing on

It requirements, Wt ta entifely sotiatectory aad Is characterlaed nelther by deficiency nor

0 = Outstending Performance ix 40 exceptaral in valation te requirements st tha.wark ond in comparison to the perlormonce of

others doing elmilor work as to warrant spectal recognition.

__SPECIFIC DUTIES _
formed during the:

Lt vp to ste of the most nopartan.apeeific duties
manner in which employee porforms EACH specific duty. Consider ONLY effect
with supervisory rosponsibilition MUST be rated on thelr ssl 19 supervise.

In performance of that duty. All
cate number of employees wureeviaedi

ting petlod. Insert rating letter which boat describes the

employees

SPECIFIC DUTY Wor any
Chief of*Paramilitary Section ay “the Miami Operations Branch
of WH/Cuba and senior Headquarters Case Officer on all PM opera~

i

conducted by the Miami Station:

wars
terten

s

J[Pecivic our no. 2
Reviews all PM and Maritime “gpcrational plans submitted for

approval by the Miami Station and recommends approval, changes
or disapproval,

Carver

s-

SPECIFIC GUTY NOrs

Prepares Agency papers Perr Special Group (303 Committee)
approval of PM operations, ,

RATiNa
terres

SrEcivie DUTY Nord
Briefs senior officials on status of PM plans, capabilities and
operations with respect to Cuba,

TPRCNNC BUTT NOL 8 z
Participates in technical planning by various Agency groups to
provide technical guidance to Miami, Station, 3

4

marina
| cetres

tos

fsPecirie ouTy No. ® - was

Works closely with Paramilitary and Maritime Branches of Miami
Station on all problems regarding the PM effort directed against

RATiNS
cerren

Pp

OVERALL PERFORMANCE IN ENT. POSITION

ion such 03 per

ployee which influonces his affectivensss In his current
roduetivity, condyet on 8% Fectinent per sonal
4. Based on your knowledge of employee's overall performance during the rating period,
tthe roting box corresponding to the statement which mest sceneraly reflect ht level of pstormanes.

"

plece the lorter

3 FEB 1966

Barina
Correa

s



SECRET

Legh Piel Tod

NAPERTIVE COMMENTS.

‘SECTIONC

PH Sk
NOTE: | Subject’ spent: full {ime ‘of spanish lahgiiage..traifing from 1 Sept
through, 21 December. 1965, :
“MAIL ROGgH , :
NOTE: Thé difference im the-léfter rating between this “report and. the

preceding fitness report does not-refléct in any way on Subjects per-
formance but is due pornee toa usta rating scale ised aes the

originators.

Subject- turned in an excellent all-around ‘performance as Chief of *
the Headquarters Paramiliftary ‘Section: supporting Miami Station, oporatiex
He strivea:hard to doa cod job and is most anxious to please his a
Superiors, He is aggressive, and conscientious in carrying out his
functions; strong-willed: ahd persistent in secking to achieve his goals;
Straightforward but pleasant in, dealing with colleagues and other
Government officials: determined in resisting encroachments in his area
of authority: and finally he is motivated by strong patriotic ideals.

Hé is well-informed and cospetent in paramilitary dperations with
a particular gift for forreting out technical improvements and innova~
tions, and bringing them to bear on operations, Finally, Subject adapts
smoothly ‘and efficiently to operational and policy changes affecting

his programs.

(see Continuation Sheet)

CERTIFICATION AND COMMENTS
27 EMPLOYEE

SECTION D
in

8, AND OF Thus REPORT

oats “Tiana TURE oF eacaree

Lb Lar flo Che gt |

en Ti Fils we ‘SHOWN FO GMPLOVER, GIVE EXPLANATION

Bs
WONT Ea
UNouR My SUPERVISION

12

Sere TITTR OF SbERVEOR
c/wH/c/so.* [ wale Ginger

BY. REVIEWING OFFICIAL

iRinVES Wau WHO Sana TORE
fae als

one
28 January 1966

Soman ar ETERS OFFICAL

This officer is serious, hard working and dependable.
Through a pleasant personality he commands the respect of
his co-workers. Mr. Hicks is an unusually well qualified
and competent officer, and is especially effective in the
paramilitary field,

sare

28 January 1966

SFE THEE 6F REVIES ERE] FRED ORES WEE TARR TORE
ADC/WH/C eer FlynX

SECRET


SECRET
tae

‘Contituation Sheet © : . FITNESS REPORT HICKS, Calvin

Section € (cont inued)

Subject has.no significant weaknesses although there’ 4s'still
Some room for improvement ‘in Baking concise oral and written ~
presentations. ‘On every occasion, Subject has: ‘proveri to be sound.

and Wise in considering costs, ©.
7



2 Cinen Fitted 10) _t E 7

# 7 SECRET

Piha Wane,

HICKS, Calvin W. : :
; : ae OP asivonment fy CORRENT ST ATIOW

Wash., D.C.

fing PERIOG (Fram To

iin | Januar, ry 64 ~ 31:December 64

CE EVALUATION

‘to slightly less thon sotisfectéry. A roting ints
ould tange from counseling, 10 fur
ration: ‘Deselibe ection taken of propoved im Section Ce

na 40 Png om

izely satisfactory ond 1s charaétorized neither by deficiency nor

Partormonce 11 choracterlted by eaceptional proflcleney.

Porkcrmanes 13 s9 exceptions! in
sree cthers doing simitor work.cs te worrant specie! recognition.

Lon to saquiremants of the work and inicomparison to the patfermonc

SPECIFIC DUTIES

tating parted, Insert rating letter. which best

clic dutier performed, dur

of the most important
rms EACH specific dut

+MUST be rated on thele obility to supervise (indicate number of emploreee aupervleeie

the
sider ONLY effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees

Is-Chief of Peramilitary Section: in the Miami Operations Branch
(WH/SA) and is’ the senior Headquarters. Case is on all PM 2

operations-conducted by the Miami Station, = fo “pe Be

terres

s

Reviews all PM and Maritime operational plans submitted for
approval by-the Miami Station and recommends approval, changes

or disapproval, Pe yo

SHE BATT HOT
Prepares Agency papers requesting Special Group (303) approval

of PM operations,

SPecirie BUT NO.

Briefs senior officials on status of PM plans, capabilities and
operations with respect to Cuba, ;

“participates in ‘technical planning by various Agency groups to
provide technical guidance to Miami Station,

apS 2)

terren

terres

8

Works closely with Paramilitary and Maritime Branches of Miami
Station on all problems regarding the PM effort directed against

Cuba.

Cerrth

in hia current position x:
pertinent personal traits ot h
Crerall performance, during the

st occurately ratlects his love!



Thy ev wealnouses Genansieted th current position Keeping in prove’ aevipective thal eetventhnp fo
‘hr Improveriont of work performance, ‘Civa.restumentarions far trie "
i

"7s Me, Hieks* prizaty responsibility has been to provide Head-°
quarters support and guidance for the PM activities directed by the
Miami Station.against the Cuban target. Mr. Hicks has shown a bigh
degree of professional judgment’ in carrying out his duties, and his
judgment 4s*respected by senior officials who are’ réquired to submit,
the PM programs for high-level approval.- During operational phases
of the PM programs, Mr.: Hicks is frequently required to be on call
to-act on’ emergency situations on'a 24-hour basis. He has accepted
this. responsibility willingly... He has consistently taken the initia-
tive in investigating. technical developments which might provide
assistance.to the Station in the conduct of PM operations. He now
supervises two. professional and two clerical employees in his Section
and runs his unit smoothly with no discernible friction, “He does a
good job of briefing and indoctrinating junior officers. While his
experience has been predominantly in the PM field, he has acquired
FI experience in the last two yeais because of the unique nature of
Cuban PM (FF) operations... ‘In lis consideration of budgetary matters,
he has demonstrated an understanding of the need to éurtail expenses,
where feasible.’ I would be glad to have ir, ‘Hicks work with me at

any future time, .
oN

SECTION D

1

7a fon ES

HORT HE ENBLOVER HAE BE
Unoen wv suremvision oo

24

[SPRIGIAN TITLE OF SuRERVIaOR
i Chief, WH/SA,
fe pgs |Miami Operations Branch |

ae TYPED OW ARNTED WANG AND TENA TORE

John Sv Tilton”

BY REVIEWING OFFICIAL”
ObaGENTS OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL ~

_.. Concur. Thaugh I have reservations as to characterizing this
officer as "Strong," (in point of intrinsic ability when compared

to others who are clearly strong performers) such reservations are
vague and inpressionistic and not related to the actual performance

and period to which this report is addressed. a

FOPeeera TITLE OF REVIEWS OrriciAL

15 February 1965 ! Under Deputy Chief, WH(S



_SECRI
(tien Filled to) panei .
Ewha Ovee SERIAL NUNSER

056361

[a oraoe [3.30
GS-13}. D

CURRENT STATION,

Gare Rc ROT REPORTING PERIOD (Fram

31 JANUARY 1964 L JANUARY 1963 .- 31 DECEMBER 1963

ricrmance meets all roauicerients.' It is entirely ratislactery ond ta characterised neither by deficiency noe _

exceltence.

Partoruance is mere thon satiztactory. Desired

Perférmanca +2 charocterised by exceptionel proficiency.
onat in ralotion t9 r04 of the work and in comparison to th
‘Os 1a worrant apecial decosaitian.

SPECIFIC DUTIES

ore being prediiced in a proficient manner.

re duty. Consider GHLY that duye Al
4 om thets ability ta:superviae (indicate nombre of amplnyees wurareh

*Chiee, PM Section, Miami Operations Branch of DDP/SAS and Senior
Headquarters Case “officer, for IM Operations conducted against

target country. ’ 66.75 DE 1b

sree Fe Wot

Provision of operational 2uidance to, field.

Bea BOTT RET > Reno

Review and comment on operational plans submitted by station.
s\

ates estes = asst

Seeeirie Doty No.

Tnsuring that necessary training, logistics and technical support |
are provided for conduct of PM nee -ations against the target

Gounbxycsiicniriniiit ni eee seston atts
sPeciric uty No. 5 cOrreh

[Rares
| dervth

a select om eatin

Toka into account everything cbout the employee Jones in his eurtent position such os pere | SEFTE®
pacihe Jaen, produ conduct, on Pertinent personal waits or habits, ond
ch omployse’s overall poclornonce. during the voting per
Jovel of performance,

je-in tha (ging ba ervespending fo the stetement which most eccuraely rllocts

10 MAR 1964

ISP" 45 opsovere encvious corrions. “SECRET



_ SECRET
(then Pitted ta)

SECTION C S TST NARRATIVE COMMENTS
Jationship 10°.

Slgnificart emengine of weaken Ta suet ° a

‘everall perlor Srare’ mode lor improvony tk poclor : neler cpu

| Skene tn Sei are mintectegh epee
seradciing ean rial Shas ita

oe vey Hieks* personal: experience and long association with
parazilitary opérations give:him hizh competence in this ‘type
of activity. Personnél: who have official business-with *

Mr, 's véspect his: knowledge ‘and ability in this field. He
assumes responsibility and‘can be counted on to get a job

done’ with minimum supervision. When required, he works: irregu-
lar hours without. complaint, His review of operational.plans
submitted by the field is prompt, complete and professional.
Mr, Hicks exerts maximum economy in the use of funds, equip-
ment, and personnel, He is consistently cooperative, even
tempered and patient in the face of frustrations inherent in
this type of work, He has established an excellent working
relationship with his opposite numbers in-the field.

CERTIFICATION AND COMMENTS
: BY ENPLOYEE

ch 1964 Z
4 March 1964 he fiot
az : By SUPERVISOR
FER EES eT vai ie NOT wEEN Som TO EMPLOYER, Bi

12

FRCL TITLE GF SORERVISOR TYPED) Fa

4 March 1964 DC/SAS (MOB sai Begone

3. BY REVIEWING OFFICIAL
COMMENTS OF REVIEWNG GPFICIAL

I concur in the above comments and rating.

SPPIGIT VPLS OF WE VIEWING OFFTEIAT

C/SaAS /MOB
SECRET

a


» Pena

SECRET

(then Pulled In)

056362

FeuPLovee SERIAL NUMBER

ECTION A

9 Orr ioIW/an OF ASStONMENT

{one frank: F Force

© OrriciaL

Jrease MENT EMPLOVER |

G0 (From= to)

1 Jamary 1962 to 31 December 1962

PERFORMANCE EVALUATION

thon sotlefoctory. A
ronge from counieling, 10 f

Porlormone
+ positive tame

probotlen, to. ion C.

Performance 1s more than sothafectcey. lta are boing produced in a proficient manner.
Performance 4s chergcterized by oxceptionel proficiency.

Performance Is s0 ex€e)
others dol

training, fe placing on

List up to stx of the mu
nannies tn shich emp!
with supervisory

BUTT Het
Hgs. case officer for PM Operations conducted by field station against

target coupany.

sbecivie wuTV Ne. T :
Prepares requirenents for end/or insures the provision of training, logistics
and other support required-for conduct of PM operations against target country.

see cinic GUT Nes

marina
erren

SPECIFIC DUTY NO.

[Speciric OUT NO, 8

SPECIFIC DUTY NO, ©

OVERALL PERFORMANCE IN CURRENT POSITION

‘Take Into eccount everything about the axiployee which influences his effectiveness in hls current position such os pet
formance of spacific iuct an: job, cooporotivensss, pertinent personal traits or hebits, ond

knowledga’ of varall porformonce during the ratlng period,
ter In the tating box éorresponding to the statement which most accur

ly toflects his level of performance.
eats ROA .

TRIM 45 cesovera previous corrions, SECRET

RaTiNg
Correa



‘@ strength ‘in accomplishing’ his duties: but he
mat try harder to overcome. a tendency fof too mich detail in his stat?
contmnicetions, oral end written. His written work in particular shows. a
‘weakness-in synthésizing which it ‘is believed .could be overcome by available
courses.of training. Mr. Hicks hes also Fenched the point where he mst
broaden his outlook ad té the wider ‘political and operational implications
of PM operations. To thig end,.it is intended that Mr. Hicks will attend
the Inter-Agency Countertnaurgency. Course in the near. future. Under an

_ experienced Chief of Operations, Mr. Hicks could handle-PM operations at most
Field Stations; in a major operdtion such as Viet New -or Cuba, he could ade-
quately handle a large segment such ‘es PM Training, ‘the handling of a large
indigenous group, or the duties of Chief/PM Operations or Deputy Chief,PM; He
would be a definite asset, in te field or at ligs., in any type of task force

operations.

SECTION D a anesTe AND C COMMENTS

eerie y iar hinve's
“Taian toga oy euPLOvEE

mE ea. | ats re
z,

; Was ( Shida TO EMPLOVEE, GIVE EXPLANATION
UNGER MY SUPERVISION.

6 months

ve ; 7
2 Jan 1963 ‘DC/SAS/EN :

BY REVIEWING OF FICIAL

3
COMMENTS OF REVIEWING OFFICIAT

The undersigned has been Mr. Hicks' supervisor for approximately
six months, for the period ending December 31, 1962. Mr. Hicks is a
highly motivated, Sincere end capable person. He vorks well with
others, and his’ knowledge and ability are recognized and respected.
He assumes responsibility and cai-be counted on to get a job done
without close supervision. He is capable of assuming greater
responsibility. He is. continuously striving for greater knowledge
and broader fields of activity. | i”

[OFFICIAL VivCH OF WEvIEwING OFFICIAL [FVRES OarayinggS wiREAKE SoNATORE
- e/sas/eM' | ci “As MALONEY \

8 February: 1963 |
SECRET


. TRAINING REPORT

Clandestiné: Services Review No. 39. 4-13 February, 1963
our me. Scere arse
Student |: + Calvin W, Hicks office : 3 SAS*
Year of Birt 1924 Servicw Designation: D
Grades CSH13. No, of Students: 33

EOD Dato “ =: Aug 1950
COURSE OBJECTIVES - CONTENT AND METHODS,

This courso aims to develon in the Clandestine Services officers.
and others recently returned from the ficld sn un-te-date avareness
of the role of CIAin-tho United States intelligence conminity, the
relations of the DDI and DDR arcas with the Sy and. the suvvert
available from the offices of the DDS,

The course is presented by lectures given by CIA officials who
are, directly responsiblu for the.missions, functions, programs, and
services discusséd, Each lecture is ustallv'folloved by s short
question period, Avoroximatcly 10 per cent of the students’ time
cis scheduled for reading pertinent up-to-date ee and back-

ground summaries,

ACHIEVEMENT RECORD iz

This is a certificate of attcndance only; no attest was_mado
to evaluate student achievement in the course,

FOR THE DIRECTOR OF TRAINING:

" Chicé Instructor

SECRET ‘i



: : (When Fitted to)

SECRET»...

ranace

RW

br benvice Gesianation] & OPPiciaL Posivion TiTke
E 3 Gpuretions G0 Cberr

TT SaReem Stare svaTos”

‘Op meron?

py eLieieLe oo [perennes marvin Gen /eurenvi
oecumes [ounce aoe jomueny/eMPLOVER
‘aracian (peel)

oo

13, GATE WEPoRT OUE IN OP, [utomen
Wiha

bantu.

EVALUATION OF PERFORMANCE OF SPECIFIC DUTIES

ing gerlads to: ng
2 Fiver ein parlcenance of thot duty. “Al employ:

fcmployeee euperrieed.

1a (Indicate nuander
T= Ovtetondi

number which best describes the:

1: Unyortstoctory

Te Garay adbguore [3 Accapioble”[4s Conpstent [i= Bnealler [67 Soperer

sP&cirie OurY NO.)

iqs PM Case Officer for agents
spatched into the target country

RATING | SPR CIPLC DUTY NO.

6 General PM Operations Officer.

: DEI?

speciwic OUTY NOW?

figs PM Case Officer for all agen

Tearino [are

“Prepare contact. reports and.
equests for air delivery into a|6/7 | other reports to document &

nic buTY NO. 8

{give background to agent op:

area le
Handle and train certain sélect
gents for dispatch into thee. ay

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. BDU [raze [erecirie-oury no. 6

EVALUATION

a ERALL BERFORNA ICE IN ca RENT FOTTION

jon = perlormonce of specific
ed on

1. Porformones in many importont
+22 Parlormone Prac

Invevery important resp
4. Perfornarce in every respect 18 outsionding.

[marino]
Nee

5

8 superior,

DESCRIPTION OF THE. EWPLOVEE

SECTION D a
: Tn the rating boxes bel

2 Limir

pere

erie | 3- Normal degrea

3 - Outstanding degree

CHARACTERISTICS

RATING.

yor,
pele
thece

GETS THINGS DONE,

RESOURCEFUL

ACCEPTS RESPONSIBILITIES

CAN MAME OECISIONS ON HIS OWN WHEN NEED ARISES

DOES His 408 WITHOUT STRONG SUPPORT

FACILITATES SMOOTH OPERATION OF HIS OFFICE

:

WRITES EFFECTIVELY

SECURITY CONSCIOUS

THINKS CLEARLY.

DISCIPLINE IN ORIGINATING, MAINTAINING AWD DISPOSING OF

OTHER (Sreciivie _

Fora i
tar 43 cosovere previous eoirions,

SEE SECTION “E* ON REVERSE SIDE

SECRET

wo



SECRET

a2 hes SE Id

‘ming greater
Bee ee ected

Mr. ‘Hieks has an * exe Llane understanding of clandestine operat nS,
and has demonstrated an outstanding ability,.to be flextt x

hanging ‘program. He has performed his duties in
1 times, exercising mature ’ judgeénient and firm
Ontinued to keép- his objectivity and siake. a fine
roject that has-had moré than. its share of -

‘i is believed that Mr. Hicks should-be considered
|. for promotion:to Grade GS- 13 at the earliest opportunity. He has
continuously demonstrated his ability to-perform che functions and
assumhe-the responsibilities of a higher level in.an outstanding
manner, Mr. Hicks has worked long, ‘irregular hours, and without
complaint, to get the job done.

CERTIFICATION Tao, COMMENTS
Secrions A, B, C, D ond E
:

Bek: fhe
ar FeRTTN =

have séer

Teernfy thet 1

5 Lal 7 aan

2

MOUEDAE Thangs O™
ROEM MY SUPERVISION

10.

[emeLOvEE UNDER My SUPEAVIBIGw LESS THAN 00 OAYS

iv Tas REPORT HAS NOT SEEN SHOWN TO EMPLOYEE, GIVE EXPLANATION

“br REPORT IS NOT OEing MADE AT THIS TIME,

pate GFP ICIAL TITCE OF SUPERVISOR

EF Cae aint EO Ee aii

Jornen (spective a

1b fa ee | Chief, wi/4/PM/ops yanes S. Perich
-: : BY REVIEWING OFFICIAL

OULO HAVE GIVEN THis EMPLOVEE A HIGHER EVALUATION,

OUCH HAVE GIVEN Twid EWPLOVEE A LOWER EVALUATION.
NOY JUDGE THEGE EvALATIONS, | AMAOT SUFFICIENTLY PAMILIA® WITH TRE ENPLOTER'S PERF OnWARCE:

ve

Touninrs OF REVIEWING SPPICIAL
The above, ratings are based, primarily on duties pérformed prior

to the assumption, in November 1961, of present duties by the reviewing

officer. Since November 1961, Mr. Hicks has shown superior ability

to adapt himself. to new and changing conditions and has performed well

dare (Corittnued)— [erent rick OF Reweeing SrrnC Ty ne
eee 7) |

4 Fea. 9o8
SECRET



FITNESS REPORT = Calvin W. Hicks (Continued)

SECTION F

Comments of Reviewing Official (Continued) _

in situations requiring individdal initiative and imaginative
thinking. I feel quite certain that Mr. Hicks has the
capabilities and should earn a superior or outstanding rating
in his next fitness report, ee



i AL,

(eet) Teak aetaaoy OaTe Or eRe aeR
sites. as at Lizds
So Reavice OFFON! Vane TOWW/on OF AERIGHUENT
DE
Teaatensrarrsvatas a or seront
. XjMewece ii foerERneo Cis TET Re aes owen i /suPcAw
o [oeetines [peewee fo [anmone jee

10, OATE REPORT GUE IWO.P, [11, SEDCATING PERIOD
i

pe PECIRE oma

SECTIONS

a EVALUATION OF: PERFORMANCE OF SPESFIC DUTIES,

List op te

Weticrns CRC tos

2 pertoimed dering the raring porsiae theert eating number which best dessin the
juty. Consider ONLY effects in performance of aul
jet MUST. be rated on theit ability te tupervie'(mdicae mentee of emsloreed supervised.

thar duty.

[a Aeceptatie

1. Unsotiatectory [2-Borely odeweate

[a= Competera

TExcatioor [b= Superior

T= Outstonding

fsreciric ovr Kon
figs P. cece officer for e22 agent
requests for air delivéry ixto a -7

=

ae ‘seeciric Dy

677 [related
_/Seourent

ae : RARING
erere om! reports end-cther | | -”*

crts ss re.vired te rroper:
siz sni selected agent, ops’ |

fecciree bury nov?
Gese cffdeer and teat Nog <ctteor fq] "|
certaix selected agents cisvatched 2N. |

WATING | SPECIFIC DET
Nor

in target country.

recieee OUTY NO.
Generally utility Fi opers
officer.

RATING
Noo

SECTION C

10 etcount evrything about the engloren wl
Jdvtiaa. productivity, conduct on job, cooneratevan

idations or talents,

ion + perlormancs of specific
‘Baved on

1 Porfermariea In mony ininartant re:
2+ Performance me

3
reas jeorly excwese bore
Performance in avery iemartant respect 1 superar:
8: Phifesmence in avery seenect ieee an,

RATING]
"Noe

5

DESCRIPTION OF THE EMPLOE=

ta the,

ing bones Bolecs cheek (XJ the degree ra =hich each checwmalie opplies to the employee

oe __[2= Linted degree [3 Normal degree [=

CHARACTERISTICS

= Octetanding degree

degree [3

nor |

‘ETS THINGS CONE

RESOURCEFUL

tes

Ac cE PTs RESPONSIOILI

3 OFN SHEN WEED ARISES,

CAN MAKE DECISIONS ON

DOES nis JOE WITHOUT STRONG SUPPORT

TACILITATES SMOOTH OPERATION OF WS OFFICE

WRITES EFFECTIVELY

SECURITY CONSCIOUS,

THINKS CLEARLY

DISCIPLINE IN ORIGINATING, MAINTATNINE AND DISPOSING OF RECSROS >

OFNER fapecity)
SEE SECTION

Fone
tae 4S-césovare rrevious cori,

w



Froces: n tothe operation
a Genied area... It is n to assure: grecter responsibilities
the Clandestine Serviced. . Irs Hicks worked long and irréguler curs’ siitheut,

SECTION F : CERTIFICATION AND COMMENTS
EMPLOYEE

Teertily that I have seen Sections A, B, C, D and

renergig or BHRRCTER ns

SUPERVISOR

MOnTas EMPLOYEE WAS BEEN WF This REPORT nad NOT BEEN SHOWN TO EMPLOYEE, GIVE.EXPUANATION T “
UNSER MY'supeRvision : 4

Seven ronths

WEPOnT 1a NOT Geing AGE AY THis Tiwey Give REAR
ion Uae Faw 62 Sava L Jrersnrmace mel

Teme cevee UNGER My SUDERY

[ornen (Specltyy:
FRICIAL TITLE OF SUPERVISOR rEg PanTeED
—

bare
10 lay 1962 7 Chief; /4/2 /Ops

: BY REVIEWING OFFICIAL

Trwouco have GWEN Twid EMPLOYEE ABOUT THE SAME EVALUATION.

Trwoue wave aiven Twi EMPLOYEE A WicwEa EVACUATION.

[ewouLo wave Given tals EuPLOvEE & Lowen EVALUATION.

i CANNOT JUDGE THESE EVALUATIONS. | AM NOT SUFFICIENTLY FAMILIAR WITH THE EMPLOVEE'S PERFORMANCE.

COMMENTS OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

GrviciAU THLE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL [TYPED OF
Chief, wH/4/PH/ops
“SECRET — ae :



Tineen stare status

Fees is eee

ic [Re atienuanv/euecovee™

: [iconvenerant ouenor [enerarine
: aa FFyan 60 2h 2 eo! :
il SECTION 8. EVALUATION OF PERFORMANCE OF SPECIFIC. DUTIES fs i

Fike most Iniporiant epecific duties performed during the roting period, ‘Insert cating number which beat describas the
Jmonase in which employee pertorms EACH specific duty, Consider ONLY of Setive in partormonce of thai duty. All employees:
Tih teporvisory responsibilities MUST be rated on thefe supeivite findicnis menber ol employaes superetood. i

[= Borety Sdequaie. [3~ Acceptable Ta Competent” 5 Eadellont [6 Soperioe [7 > Outsh
pan [rages

‘ating |3PECIFIC DUTY NO. #
ra bathed p PG

n Mied.ofricers) pregares”
personiel| 5.

ppeciric ourY no.
Cinef Ops. orticer for Euse. supporting
allied. PK forea rye? [6 2]? att supervises trainin:
Gyoe |sreciric buTT ho» 7 Razin
s advisés:idled jigs in instricting | |

a5) a5 preparing-pllans for large seni

ert PH force , 5

fpecirie burr Rot
th allied officers, p
tor clandestine Pit force.

purrNOe RATIO
PN:

staff officer to Chiet of Sase.

seccinie pure NO. ro
With allied officers, Ss. dircets clandes/
develcrrem : 6 ~
feneeay : an
EVALUATION OF OVERALL PERFORMANCE IN CURRENT POSITION

sition « psitormonce of spocitle
imitotions er telents. Bosed on
the

SECTION C

Toke into cecount everything obout the employ

ing, conduct on job, cooper prea

‘employee's overall perform ting Betied,
curately raflaces his level of perlarmcincs,

8 fails
but ta de

mportont

ory tarpect te aurstanding.
“DESCRIPTION OF THE EMPLOYEE

alow, chock (X) the degree to which éoch characteristic applies to the employee |

[3= Normal degree _[4- Above overage degree [5 - Ouatanding degree

T= Leeet possible depres

CHARACTERISTICS

i
i

FACILITATES SWOOTH OPERATION OF Hit OFFICE

WRITES EFFECTIVELY
SECURITY CONSCIOUS.

THINKS CLEARLY, zi
DISCIPLINE IN ORIGINATING, MAINTAINING AND DISPOSING OF RECCROS
OtNEA Grecitys __Suatt advice to cali or 5

7 Fore
. ban 45 onsovere mrevious eorions.


fata: RGgWtS “Just. as ten- |
‘poss tio’

ny “And iis chic!
Propram has yalways deen practic,
n@-is. Yorceful ahd ‘firm“in de:
| inj and retuinin) “treir respect. | 2:
cence-informations "His develoriit of gontsets in. the “eck
prisingly ood, ‘even though outside ‘hfs ‘assic
has constantly exercided initlative to place’ himsalf in a. bog
geneé; information should the’ regithrem: mt ve placed on-hin. 4ltozether ah outstandimay

|; fine operations “and stff officer I shall always’ welcome
An, cxpertence, and denonstrated ability. inthe rield al wel demonstrate his quel

fication to £1] assigments-dacthe next higher grades

i
ae
j
3. .
:
z

i

2

g

3

n to-colleet: ‘tated a“

SECTION F CERTIFICATION AND COMMENTS
mn :

Teertify thar Thove sean Settions Ay

~ SIOWATORE. OF EuPLOYEE Pade Pea

22 August 1960 -. S/Calvin W. Hicks: : :
BY SUPERVISOR,

ip THis REPORT WAd NOT BEEW SHOWN TO EWPLOVEE, Give EXPLANATION

Foave

2

MONT Wa-EMPL OVER HAs OREN
UNGER MY SUPERVISION

PORT 189 NOT BEING WADE AT THIS TIME, GIVE REASON

REPORT HAGK miTHIN LABT 60 OAVE

(Siow Less Thaw #0 DAY.

[EMPLOvee UNDER my SUPER
lovmen (Specityy?
Dare

TYPES OW PRINTED WAME AND BIONATURE

S/#illiam T. XK Hornaday

OFFICIAL TITLE OF BUPEAVIBOR

20 August 1960

BY REVIEWING OFFICIAL
TP #OULD HAVE GIVEN THIS EMPLOYE® ABOUT THE SAME EVALUATION.
OULD HAVE GIVEN THIS EMPLOYEE A HIGHER EVALUATION,

% ]iwouco wave civin THid euPlOvee A Lowen EvatUATiON, 2
TEaNNOT JUDGE THESE EVALUATIONS, 1 AMNOT SUFFICIENTLY FAMILIAR WITH THE EUPLOTER'S PERFORMANCE, 3
i"

8

COUMENTS OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL It is srObably Uccause Of the feclated location of the bese
and the "tocettierness" of its personnel but, this ratim, officer as well as his predeces-
sors have all rated on the high sidce “caile ny contacts subject officer nave been

infrequent and any evaluation would larjely be based on papareuork subject nus ori inate,
fraue, and experience iy

ny assessment is thut supject is an averave officer 1or his are, ¢ ry

his rather specelizca rielq, In conparison with ovher efzicers Inave Imown in this |
‘bare 7 BIGInL VIVLE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL [TYPED OW PRINTED NAWE AND SIGNATURE

iS

2 September 1960 Z 3| =

ix

cae ~ ~ SECRET : a





oe ‘MEMORANDUM FORTHE, RECORD

SUBJECT : Regiest for Disab lity Retirement Under the
aide Provisions of the’ CIA Retirement and Disability

Systoni< ‘Mr. Calvin, W. Hicke

oe _: sibmitted in'this-caae, I have determined that the diability of”
Mr. Hicks rf permanent;

a. Supervisor's statement dated 30 October 1974 submitted

in ‘accordance with the provisions of Parograph £, (3) of HR 20- 50% .

_b., Writteii report of the Board of Medical Fxaminere dated
20 December 1974.08 submitted by the Chairman of that Board in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph f.(4)(c) of HR 20-50,

F. W. M, Janney
Director of Personnel

‘Distribution:
0 - Return to ROB
1 - D/Pers
1- OPF
1 - ROB Soft File
1 - ROB Reader

op/Rap/rop/[|_____hat/3257 ‘(24 December 1974)

fal P iE
ee



Mr, Calvin W. Hicke i
10207 Foreat Avenue a
Fairfax; Virginia 22030 ~

“Dear Mr. Hicks?

+ “This is to Infor you that the: Divector of -Perdonnél has » appre
: iroment and

of

ture: -

: “On the basis of medical evidence, the Direc
"Perdonnel-has determined that your disability ig af.a permanent
therefore, no further imedical, review of your cage will be-required

Your arinuity wilt commence.retroactive to 28 December 1974,
day following the date on which your salary terminated. You may ae
aagured that very effort will be made to expedite delivery of your first
annuity check following completion of the administrative details required
to effect your retirement. =

| Singerely yours,

Ronald Gage
Chief
Retirement Affaire Division

Distribution:
0 - Addressee (CIA Letterhead)
1 - D Career Service

1 - OMS
1+ OPF
1 - ROB Soft File . : q

1 - ROB Reader

OP/RAD/ROB/| jat/3257 (30 December 1974)



Mp, Calvin K, licks -,

© 10207 Forest Aventic
Fairfax, Virginia. 22030

Dear Hrs Hicks:

As-you bring to a-close ‘your'active carecr of
service to your cowitry, I join’your friends ‘and

* colleagues Jn'wishing you well in your retirerent,

-Te takes the ‘conscientious efforts of reriy.

: people to do'the important. work of this Agency. You

fe that you have personally

leave with the lew!

contributed to. our success In carrying out cur mise ~

sion. Your faithful’ end loyal support ‘has. measured
up to the high ideals and traditions of the Federal
service,

T extend to you my sincere eppreciation
for the important wor}. you have done.

Sincerely,

is WE. Sot

WE, Colby :
Mrector

Distribution:
0 - Addressee
a oF



Calvin W. Hicke
10207 Forest Aveni:
Fairfax, Virginia 22030

Dear Mr. Hicker

For your infarmation and convenience, an Annuity Statement has beer
forwarded:to you.: That statement relates'basically to tho’ payment for the
poriod'28 December i974 firough,28 February 1975.

Eneloded is a retiree'identification card. Beforo‘using the document,
aign your namo in ink on the Feverse side of the card,

pleas

This office is in receipt-of your sigiied statement wherein you elected
to receive payment under-the Federal Employees Compensation Act (FECA)
in Meu of a rotirement annuity under the C1A Retirement and Disability,
System. Accerdingly, your annuity ceased as of 28 February 1975 and you
will henceforth receive benefita under FECA. An adjustment will be made
in the payrnent issued by FECA retroactive to 28 December 1974, If, ata
later date, the determination is made that you are not permanently nor
totally disabled, your FECA payments might by reduced or stopped, at which
time you may request the initiation of your retirement annuity.

If you elect to receive an annuity instead of benefite under FECA, you
must so advise the Office of Federal Employees‘ Compensation, indicating |
the date of this.election. In addition, you should send a copy of your corre-

spondence with that office to the Agency. .

1:7 Sincerely yours,

Ronald Cage
Chief
Retirement Affaire Division

j
i
|
j
i
J
|


CExCIPICATION OF Si

MEMORANDUX:FOR TSS RECORD < ATTACH-T0 OFFICIAL P:

I tweedy aeknowldage the ‘receipt of the ‘following Fores ‘and/or informacs 4a concerning ay

separation-fron CIA as indicated by check ‘mark:

tral Huployee about Uneiapl

% Coapenedtion). —«

Standard Fora 8 (siotice ‘to F
‘ : a]

Federal Group

Standani Fora 95 (Notice of Conversion Privileges
Life Insurance).

Saployee:

Standani-Forn $5 (Agency. Cortitteation of Insurance Status, Federal #
Group Life Insurance Act of .195!).

“Standard, Fora 2662 (Application ror Reftind of Retirement Deck

“Form 2595 (Authorization for Disposi

Con

resignee from overseas
to have a medical’ exaninas

Only apo!

“Tha oF ay ti

ny separatice fron this Tgency a
check to my health and well-be:

eral Ruployees Peri

7... CSC Panphlet 51 (S2-employnent Rights of ¥

|
{
| Forces Duty}.

8. Instructions for returning to duty froa extended Leave or A

Service.

Date Signed
e
26 Lt. re

ire of Suployes

ops A fo

Adaress (Street, city, Stsce, Zip Code) Correspondence
BO /1R. CAte be. Nreres spEnc®
J ORO 7 FOREST AVE 2 conser
JAPA, VibbretA 28 230 ovest
LT overs fF covert



"Mr. ‘Calvin W. Iicks

10207 Forest Avenuc
Fairfax, Virginia | 22030

Dear Mr. Hicks:

‘Ia happy to send to you, “under sepaiata cover,
your ‘Agency Retirement Nedaliio. The Medallion is a
tangible fom of recognition and appreciation of: your
‘Service to the Agency. It should serve as a lasting
reminder of an honorable career, rewarding associations
aml the Knowledge that you played your ‘pare in a vital

activity.

Let me, therefore, ada ny congratulations and wish

you the very best for the future.

Sincerely,

E,W. M, Janney
Director of Personnel

CBS,



ma ENLISTED RECORD AND.REPORT. OF SEPARATION

Rhineland : : - . ee

\y eat pecbannans paw Staion : — :
WAKE Reco A PUSAN AD tet uenhe boort baad Contant ithen ‘
= at aaa i

B-Nenad [lyphas G-LT ay a 10 cet. +e fe

Temreneane | aR bes ft

: E

7

law:

8 se bended

D2 td beewmiy A
953 Bod Ga wate Sh Ley Ab

dung oan sot

Te Fiaseat orneea [Foe baie, Gia aad SSS TST

The ig pene gl
UE



‘Trench fost, piaetéret, noderates~ Incurred’ prior: to

2O.Nov-44 in Leleium ufter expos: web: néather . i
visability' mnir . Ailing of feet on. proe pe :
“ lonied we.gnt vearing, excessive perspiration, und sensitivity.

to heut und cold.

GE WITH EEE FINDINGS, NE RECEMPEND. THAT INDIVIDUAL GE DISCHARGED
anbhas aceonnta'y Sodan sated [ide Tein MEwOCATS 40 AATURCTREORTSTT PFO)

THD want, aa em i ia. Teado want and Gmave TH TVFED Hane ABO GRADE (Reeweredy,

ILLL « CUTHALE A 5 5 3 Léa

R ‘APPROVAL. CO. NOSPETAL
ia aa Te

HeaaTeAt CSeam Oredaqad walry ia area

io. Trio wane

fis oisenateee ar
bis ousenaneca

28 1ug 4

orice
i Lt, sin
nest Shier, ail fers or

AeA ERENRARY crate ec


th

MEMORANDUM FOR: ‘Secretary, DDP/QSi - HMA Panel
SUBJECT. " ‘t Notification of Approval of :

Quality Stop Increase ~
Calvin W. Hicks

1. Lam pleased to send to you the attached.
official notification of the approval of the Quality step
Increase which you recumménded for this employee.

2. As this award is designed to encourage
excellence by recognizing and rewarding the employee,
may I aek that you arrange to’ have this Quality Step

Increase presented at an appropriate ceremony.

7 Harty 5. Fisher
Director of Personnel

Distribution:w
Orig & 1 5 Addressee
~ 17 OPF - HICKS
1 - D/Pers Chrono
1-C/sPD *
1 - CSPS
op/sPp| whg (6 Apr 72)



a

3
steel
ma

© M7 March 1972 °

MEMORANDUM FOR: “Director of Personnel :

_ VA

Tae i oe
-. SUBJECT : Request for Quality Step Increase.
7 Me. Calvin W. Hicks ieee

1. The GS-13°Evaluation Board for FY 1972, having carefully reviewed
@ performance.or allofficers. in‘grade GS-13 according to the standards
sr HR 20-31a(3)(b), | Feconmends Mr. Calvin W Wicks: for a Quality Step .

Increase.

2. Mr. Hicks performed ta a supertor manner. as a paramilitary officer
4uring the early years‘of bis career, overseas and in Headquarters. A
medical hold. on‘overseas duty led to his assignment in 1967 to the Intelli-
gence Watch/FI Staff where he has remained-up to’ the present. Mr. Hicks
has ‘received overall ratings of-‘Strong" fron 1968 through 1971, with his.
performance’ characterized.as exci tional ly.profictent. Of the seven
officers with whom he ‘serves Gnva rotating basis, four are GS-14's. The

“FL Staff has: réconmended-Mr. ‘Hicks “for promotion in 1968, 1969, 1971 ard
1972, with a ‘recommendation for QSI in 1970, None of. these recommenda

tons were approved.

3. The Board has noted that Mr. Hicks plans to retire in 1974 at
the age of 50. In view of the very high regard in which he is held by
the FI Staff; his récord of sustained superior performance and his high
dedication to the Agency,’ the Board recommends recognition in the form

of a Quality Step Increase for Mr. Hicks.

(Catia ets ida vee

Arthur E, Callahan
Chairman
GS-13 Evaluation Board (FY 72)

CONCUR: Hee

MES fo
thief; soo Date APPROVED: :

(leg Wah tule lane hed
7h puty Director peo Oar ‘of Personnel bate

ge

EORET,



: SECKET: ‘ :

: ete pat a scien etce rp ae eaten aan

-qualineatioas are a niatter of coniputer revurd. Ney. mist Phe er cy i
information: however, some must Be ohtained directly from you's ‘This
‘Section I imust Be completed ‘tn -all. cases"; You heed ;pnsiate other tnformation:enly it thers Have been chanies slice
os sobimitil pour Form & | Stippler the Personal History Statement," or a.previous update.form.
| you are’ in doi inter a Fei'wonsty submitted,-enter It int roptlate section: The signed
“and dated. form should be returned: ncough adeninbtea wrechanincls-to'the File Room: Opice of Personnel; Ro om Si
Headquarters, eehether information 4 idea or nots : iets
ly qualifvations uptate ‘may. fake pldce at.dag. time there ts Information tobe added or changed simply
ng dnd returneng an update form on your imitative 5 :

: ae TBicdkwHie mo POSTION DATA
Raut (Loet-Piret-Widdle) ; sat

cks, Calvin “W._.

saat z WIGH SHOOK.
UAT wean FewOaLATHENOES aopaCSS:(Crey. State Country)

COLLEGE Of UNIVERSITY STUDY,
‘Sonate, T

wuans arrenoto | orcere

NAME -AND ASCATION OF COLLEGE OR. UNIVERSITY
‘i Wmoue+f0-+" [RECEIVED

VE a GRADUATE OEGREE Had GEEw NOTES ADDVE wnIGM REQUIRED GUSMISSION OF A DRIFTER THUBIE, INDICATE THE FITLE OF THE
THESIS AND GNEETLY'OESeRIBE ATS CONTENT. + i :

TRADE, COMMERCI NL AAD SPECIALIZED SCHOOLS

Rint ano ADORESS OF Steen Ge SPECIAL PATION

> OTHER WON AGENCY EDUCATION OR YRAINIEG NOT INDICATED ABOVE

HAE AND AOORESS OF SCHOOL ~__STWOY Of WECEALIZAT + from

[sectioe Uy : TT HARITAL STATUS,
1 PRESEHT ATATCS (Single Wartied Pidowed Separated Brewtee® tanulled Renarelet) SPCCIF¥
WANE OF Shoust (haaty Fivard Cmitatoy (Waideny

Dare OF Brat © PLACE OF wlatw (City. State bo

‘DecuPATON o. PatseT CuPLoveR®

Goro ‘| Br Fanee we TTETARMIPTAY OORTAVIVEST SATE Osa. TENE AERTS

‘secrion_1¥ ‘DEPENDENT CHILONEN AND DEPERDENTS OTHER THAN SPOUSE
war Taetatvowsure] Date AnD Peace oF viaTH | CITITENSWIP PERWANENT AODRESS

= Aine fil |

vers yan ©

ne



2 SECRET : : :
se estrone wieeee esi :
GEOGRAPHIC AREA KROW.EOGE AND FOREIGH TRAVEL

TOTNYP TRC CHPOI]E amos THaNGL PRATT? TRO LCRTE AuORTMARO A TSTEW WILD TERETE
| : SD srtesewinens /

‘Section Vit eee eae SPECIAL QUALIFICATIONS:
‘TASvI9E nF OReAT TO Du WOGDIER, SPORTS, LICEMIED, PUBLISHLD WATER

Sicrigw vit : aaa MILITARY SERVICE
E - QURRERT ORAFT STATUS
TWA VOOR BITZI TVR BERVICE CURTRTTTERTION EWORELOT [Ene ELASSIFTEATION
Ou On

3 Veen webeerive SEAviCe GoARO Nan

and NODAEES " a

DEFERRED, GIVE EASON

FATIOWAL GUARD STATUS
wine conrs Cp conse eusto “EL ATHONNL us
1 Ate renee Ey Ate mirionm cusno

HILITARY RESERVE,

cuca wesceve oH Giaen oncanie | (Janey
TATION TO wmi<# YDU BELONG Bmw oO:

T"GuaaENT Rane, CeaoE Gm WATE]. GATE OF. APPOINTRENY IW CURREMT Wink” ]3:€APRATION DATE OF CURMENT OBLIGATION

4 ENCEK Cunsewy AE SCAYE CATEGORY [] meAby RESERVE ponoaveethe) —_ [-] STMeBY(inacting Tifstieo [oscwnces
Waaici7et ion ABB ionuent iF BESTAVE Unit To Wwtew ASS TERED OW ATTACHED

: MILITARY SCHOOLS COMPLETED (Extended telive, Boateve Duty. of a8 Clvillan)
wavs aah 008035 OF SCHOOL Tu btu om sheciactzation [DATE COMPLE

i Gace :
SECTiON 1% PROFESSIONAL SOCIETIES AnD OYHER ORGANIZATIONS

: DATE OF wEWOtRENIP,
awe ano cuarren ADDRESS (Nuaber Street City, State.

foustey)

‘SECTION x

GF Euriovee

bn 42
‘SECRET



FILE copy oF ‘STANDARD FORM 56
“AGENCY CERTIFICATION OF INSURANCE STATUS—
FEDERAL EMPLOYEES enOUP LIFE INSURANCE PROGRAM”

on file with the Retirement Operations Branch,
Office of Personnel (x3257).


IMPORTANT.

BOTH COPIES of the form. Tee aor use ink. -
+. Dornot detach ary part.

EAMES Guest, 7 ir ceetaien + OaTE OF BIRTH mont day, year) Y SOCIAL SECURITY RUWOER

LHiens, CEE, sO gant 8 IER 504 V6, LIE ||

Fawn aro nse ~ Wenham Gn

‘ l i i L

3 MARK AN.“X" IN ONE OF THE BOXES BELOW (do NOT mark mime than one}:

Mark, here ELECTION OF OPTIONAL (IN ADDITION, 7Z.REGULAR) INSURANCE

if you | elect the $10,000 additional optional insiranicw and.authorze the required deductions |.
‘WANT BOTH, trom my salary, coripensation, or annuity 42 Bay the full cost of the optional ivsurance:
optional and Tis optional surance 1s v9 adeivon tomy salar insurance,
regular TA}
insurance
= Mark here DECLINATION Of OPTIONAL (BUT NOT $EGULAR) INSURANCE
if you decline the $10,000 additional optional surance. bunderstand that 1
DO NOT WANT ["] tonal tesuennee unt ear
OPTIONAL but at the lime | apply
do want Of insurability. | understand also that my eur msurance rs riot affected by t's declina-
. fa (B) tor of additicnal optional insurance.
gular
insurance
Mark neve ——————-]_ WAIVER OF LIFE INSURANCE COVERAGE
if you | desire not to be insired and | waive covecige under the Federal Employees Group Lite
<WANT NEITHER Insurance Program. | understand that | caret cancel this wowver'and obtact rewulat ne
regular nor surance unt at Jeast year after the efincrua date of this waiver and.uniess at tha time
optional i I apply for insurance | am under age 50 Ant resent satistactory medies! evidence of i
‘ TC) surabiiay. "Understand aiso thot. cannse now or later have the $10.000 additional
insurance Optional insurance unless 1 have the rezwur insurance,

FOR EMPLOYING OFFICE USE ONLY
COMPLETE THE "STATISTICAL STUB." THEN RETUR: — a mahi

4 SIGN ANO DATE. IF YOU MARKED BOX "A" OR”
THE ENTIRE FORM TO YOUR EMPLOYING OFFICE.

i (Go not print)

“3K be

; Gh A. ia he iz WES 9, 8d



Tons

L.pressioa o tien and Cousa!

for the Futeld

iy Feiarel
‘% cungtnnecs, Was 3m
ihe sortr of the batch, rartic
crisis sity ny VAS Onca sore de.
F Cutot, }
South fsia
: Distiigutron:
i Orig and 1 - Addressee
1-C/NE a
wa - C/FY/INt CALVIN HICKS
1 - C/FI/ INT/ IW
1 - Official.Copy
: . t
i

INTEL: DLConnelly:vb/5425 (30 August 1967) ~

iatioa |



oof ggeret |

(pened tay

ca

Office of Bersorh 2

1, Statistical Reperting Branch, ~

REMEIER_BWPLOVEE: OFF ICE /COMOMENT
TerNay tale
ery

woe],

w

INSTRLCT IONS:
ATE Cote scwsee In tco0e" couuim
cares ov Ustne THe

are

USE appaotaiate sesce stice To REPORT DATA Fon. crtwte ‘ts cm TOY. Ist
To veatcnaTe searece, severesion Is OF Basic DATA. CoeereTiOn, ON CEMeCLLATION (One emt). BES
NuMpen FoR Yo wears, ANG LAST THO DIGITS OME FOR SEM

PCS DETES CF SERVICE

DepantoRe ec

ARIAL
38 i Rae

CANCELLATION

CHOY. DATES OF SERVICE
cor T oui

DEPARTURE 4 meTuan

reese a

asege | 3730

wy (Basie) apze | 29.30

connection
CANCELLATOR

SOURCE OF RECORD DoCIAe AT

Torsearew

TRAVEL “Vocus

| [oury satus ce tua ano artrvoasee ezost

capte
OTMER (Specter)

NY DAvE/PEaNST

/l22}sé-

DOCUUENT 1OLATIFICATEON NO.

IN-3351t

Mane

ade tctbe source vocuwemt

‘bate [stenatue

Ib Serrenpun ‘ss
: SECRET

TSeAL DAvISIN
Finance Otetsize

foe tN la

tas109



ROGH:5 B, 2506 -Héadquarters

OF EwPiover.

= Torr see scoveonewt

EWPLOYEE’ SERIAL NO.
4 . wast Tiagt

wronce |

Te WPetaed

056361 HICKS.

fi INSTRUCT 1ONS
2 tov:

To REPORT DATA Fom C1THER PCS
+ OR CANCELLATION (On:

On 1S°OF DASIC, DATA, CORRECTE
1 twO OLGITS"OKLY FOR YEAR,

PCS DATES OF, SERVICE

DEPARTURE.

Inset appropriate cove must

tn *eope* coLuun
‘ondy). REPOR’

Countay oir

40-48,

a8
ca

TOY OATES OF. SERVICE

aacatsy

DEPARTURE weToRW

TWE OF oaTa

65

3ac33 | 30-97

66 06 |

wo (Aaete) X
‘connection’
CANCELLATION

al

wi—-{Ser-duan,y TR}

SOURCE OF ‘RECORD DOCUENT

TRAVEL YOUEMER WHT EB] -65

enate

OTHER (Specily)

“DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION NO, ‘DOCUMENT DATE/PERIOD

4/1/65 @ 1045 - 4/6/65 € 1900

correry

‘BASED UroW souRCE

REPORT AKNOTATED OW]

Mdiiedeitala x | source vocumenr

‘ABOVE DATA VERIFIED CORRECT.

document crea

Srenatune

0723/65

rorw
fore

14S5ta ¢

(4.108



ecRET

“Filled Ia)

VERIFIED: RE

CORD -OF OVERSEAS SERVICE

Reyerding Branch, ROOM Loo Curfe Hall,

NAT OF EwPLOTeE

CFF ICE /EoNPoNENT

| eveLovee Sem iaL NO. fF
at 8. ase SORT Toa sient
Te Crean) ne e ae y we
Berle ‘ i 5 es 5 :
JO3 Hic as, Cavin LW. oP

INSTRUCTIONS,

USE APPROPRIATE SPACE OCLoW TO REPORT
TO-CEStGRATE WHETHER SUBMISSION 15 OF BASIC DATAL C.
MUMOF® FOR THE ORTH, ANG LAST THO DIGITS ONLY FOR vee,

A foe Chtere Pes
sEETION. OF “CANCILLATION {One omly), REPORT CATES OV USING THE

iyfiay arbmopnrare Cone wunen ty *s00e* coLcwn

YoY.

Pes DATES oF stRviCe

Tee ov bata

aww teat

1. Pes (Basic)

3. coaetetion.
3 CANCELLATION

Tree OF oata

DepaRTORE wetut

Kaeatay

“oat

Preaa ANT"

2. tov (Baste)

237 |

goran | oeae

45 consecrton’
© + CANCELLATION

SOURCE CF RECORD DOCUMENT

[raves vovsne

busparen

cate

DUTY STATE 08 TIME AND-ATHENOANCE REPORT

‘OTMER (Speedty)

‘DOCUMENT Veen?

PREPARED BY

REPORT ANNOTATED ON
SovECE BocumeNT

Tapove oata vee!

Wo comet, DASeD UPON SOURCE
DeCUMERT CITED

FISCAL pivisvow

Foou

are Pacveous
Sse °

161a fi

7 en

tater

Le Feekrc



“tical, unremitting in his efforts, ant nard-readed ti his anslys

_§ Movember 1960

“MEMORANDUH Pit Chief, iF
. FRCM 1 WiLidam@, Hornaday, formerly
sungger > 2° Letter of Conixendaticn for Calvin W. fiteka

‘lL. This 1o.a lotter of conmendatien for Calvin W. Hicks fér the ‘period
of 7 January ~ 25 August 1460, Duriny this tine he served. under ry comand’ on
tlie staff of aCLiVis. Project, “His, assignvont” wae Operations Orricer
ACLEVin staff, and Chief Opecaticns Crfacer for’ the United States cieren
the Joint Cperations' Staff, s¢rving. op:osite @ like o1ficer from the Allied

service.

2, Hicks at all 'tises wad an outstanding. nember of the staff, He wus
gealous in his efforts tc improve operaticha). techniques to increase opera~
tional asyeta, and to insure thet theso asseta wero of trustworthy nature
and wire highly trdined and qualified, His forcrost Uoughts were always

contered on what was Hest for the intcrests of the United States, He was prag-
of how best

with the Allies partners for the best interosts of the United States.
He was a sound staff officer, offering sound opsraticnal advice to bis com
pander, and tiways sutmitting staff *oxk in completed form, after giving
string, support to the courses of action recorrended by lim, he never failed to
give complete support to his commander after a decisica yas made, oven though
it contrevened the course he favored,

te des:

3. Mr. Hicks has been a GSe12 since Novexter 1956. Ha has azuly demeon=
strated his complete qualifications to perfcrm the duties of th 4. hivher
grads, and it is ny conviction-he hus eurned the right to early consideration
for prenetion.

4, I shal) always welcone any opsortunity that permits Mr. Bicks to serve
with me azain.

Willian 7. Hornaday



~N : o

SECRET:
ae ~, 125 May 1961

/ MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Financa. Division

FROM + Chief, Wit/4/Support Staff
sussect = Premium Pay
: Dus to thé recont reduction in heavy-workload

ae requirenents,. the following employees. ara no longer
entitled to Premium Pay, '-It ip, requested that thie
‘entitlement be ‘discontimied effective 6.0.B, 27 May 1966.
Their salaries are chargeable to Allotment #535~000-8021,

WAPOLI, Louie Pi
SEFHAFFR, Ralph G.

HICSS, Calvin Wo - = :

Chief, WH/4/Support
Distributions

i 2= Chief, Finance Division (ea. employee)
2 - Director of Personnel (ea, employee)



36 2 -Mreeter of Personnel |

aul) <2 thet, HI

ATAC7: ALAtionu) Commensstion in lieu 0° Overtize Inge

Fero dated 11 Janunry, 1941 fron SS4/ds to 02/S,..’
artfoved by. 7/5 jene“its for
JVATS Perscnnel*; fn? 22 Desezbor 1960
from ADI): ta, Deruty 4 (Fiers}, Subjec
“surloyee Fane‘tte for Personnel -.ssisne! to vi

In necerdance with refererced nero-unte, Lt ts requeated that the
Teraonnel listed balow be authorized tu receive addicteral’ conpansntion
affective Bo Conunry 1G, Gt the ente of 153 of treic restective mates
of bnate annunl commensetion (bat not te ezcacd the wksue? sate for a
48-9) in lot of rayinent of the resulur overtine retes for irreulur,

unscheduled and “requent overtire,

nn

SITS
“Aa, 9ge.

555127

50218, Inatructas (CS)

059517 cr officer
Tyla, wbert 55407
62245

E-Ge, ernvel Sy €1961 Office

1 Off heer

WO. Gitices

Gff tees

UrS Crficer

“5358

All the pdove erployaes ure on Allotient



CONFIDENTIAL
. . (Shen Felted Tay :
“ious; eomrtn ft tw cura vente s40 OW Tis Fomw th 4a9taTT FNS FSM GAPEASES
CLAVE AF cows madi wi tar eye BE TuRS TO RESHOLACE CrSS SEPARATION, AND
IF AND _DFEUWUTNCY FORMATION REQUIRED’ HN TOF ak LWPLOVER ewcHEENCH, THE
IMPLOFEE™S-OFFICIA Pr asongre FLOUR. 2
Christe)

“RESIDENCE: DATA, i
Cast Puack or mEsipince. iw CONTINONTAL ULB. (TE aewoimind al

WA ae
CORTINFRTAL U1, DLSToMATLG™ Ay Pua WENT RESIOUNCE
SAYA, SUBS. : :
ara —= nn MARTA STATUS. ; 2 aaa
cava gat ons Co dsreetes RI aanwnee CT serena Co ]onncee Cn] means
fF ARAI tO. TNOIEALE rgary QF pea : ares Taste
REGEN DM ABE FILLE : iZ.

WF DEVORCKO, PLACE OF Divomct OLCREE

Tr BIOMED, INDICATE PLACE SPOUSE O1ED:

+

TH PREVIOUSLY WARRIED, IAONCATE NAWEIS) OF SPOUSE..REASON(S) FOR TERMINATION: AND BATECOT

Tweanens oF EATEY
ETT TTT sores Ho. Street, crys Bane State
Catnepivn Lowes BS: spy oor aac
a a a Co
HERE ° ra ee oe
orn CALY | > Jay SOO
ARYAN EERE 5
4454 BET

TP FELEPOWE nuMace.

Qeeiee A pers Savs, 3. OAK.
Want" oF motaea (Or Ve “poonese, Tiectrwone wuuere

DIVAS. pA fie
JR Fawlty WAS BEEN TOLD OF vOUR AFFILIATION Witw THe AGLACY FOR CMLAGENCY PURPOSERY
eed (Pathe
5 PERSON 10 BE NOTIFIED IN CASE OF FOIRUENCY
wae (ME, More) (Lasts FarateMeddie) mia of —
MEMS | LEONE. AVES 0
Wout Rony (Ho Miverty Gity, fons, Statey TT owe TecePwone man
[Ed x et PAYA, SAI,
TES anges Te eT iy. Fons, State) ano waa OF UuPCOvN, IF APPLICAGLE: GUSINESS TELEPHONE § ENTERSIO
SX SAMA SOBA
TE the IMOIWIQUAL woul AGOVE WHITING OF VOUR AGENCY ATETLIATION?

AME LINE

TuIs IRDLYIOUAL AUTHORIZES TO WAKE OLEIS1ONS ON YOUR BENALFY

‘O0ES THIS INDIVIOUAL UNO® THAT NE WAS GLEN DESTGWATCO AS YOUR FWERGLNCY ADDRESSEE?

THe PERSONS NAMED IN
BECAUSE OF HEALTH OR OTHER

= VOLUNTARY ENTRIES
THDVEATE Any GANKENG INSTITUTIONS #1 th WHICH VOU WAVE ACCOUNTS

FicaTtey 1 MOT DEst@ARLE

VE WAY ALSO BE NOTIFIED IN CASE OF EwERGENEY. IF SUCH

SONS, PLEASE SO STATE IM LEM OCH THE RIELUSE S1O€ OF

CONTINUED ON REVERSE SIDE

CURRENT RESIDENCE AND DEPENDENCY REPORT
tae 6 Sten : CONFIDENTIAL, : sean



"CONFIDENTIAL

fancn Filted ta)

CA, he pete. ttre)

CONFIDENTIAL



@

ii thiemnen ited SDK sins (sic dea

sidicbacsigatite Spthatuce enti lkeatithnatcli inte dilation’
