# 104-10185-10015

## Page 1

104-10185-10015

1. 84 +

DISPATCH

Guiseria: +

PROCESSIAG

Cate? or Station,

Chior of Stallon, Lucasbourg

- 10

#aDal+ ++818-778-096

Caler, 15

Chlof, KUTUHZ/D

M8.70: 861:163 1434

ABSTRACT.

SUBJECT

Deseription and Photograph of Joad Harle Andrd NANKKI.

ACTION

12104

1P. 30, 30, 4, 7

сласова Parai. 3b, 30, 4, 3.

I AUDA 234, 7 Ootober 1960

onarded heroulth ies pleture of malk.

Although the ploture vas

taken In 1957, he looks today anotly a he did then, with the axception of a

row less badre on the top of hin hond. Desoriptions

4a years old, apparent ago

43, bolght 6 it. 1 1a., thin butld, antr dark brown, large ears, Fighs oar lobe

bas dintloot tvertody cut; abore bis loft wyebrow la a parmanent lump (door not

show on the sttacbed ploture), large enouga, do that 1t cunot be overlookedi

walks with head and shouiders bent lightly forvard, speake darian and Trench

fluently and can pase as a native of france; on a soale of excellent, very good,

good, fair, poor, his Inglish 18 rated good. Il Ingliad 19 used with bim, 1t

Bould be spoken Blouly and distinotly, aboosing vorda shich lonte so doubt na

to what in mant.

2.

MAKEL, was Bat In LuxembolE by BulkY and Ellott 3. JOUVENOY, COS,

Luxerboura, on 19 and 20 Oatober. (JUDA 234 had int been recoived in Frankfurt

by the time of RAMixY 's departuro fron there for Lurencourg, but arrangerenta

vera made to hava it nolayed to Luxembourg, and JOUVEHOY has confirmod h18

receipt of 1t. The folloulag sub paragriple provide tbe substance of the

metings with MaRKEt:

In vlow of the extrane sonaltivity of the objective for ubich vi

ant him to porfora hla task, to vas not told procisely ubat va want blo to do.

Instead, he was told that we hava evidenos of Sorlet operatlong wong nationally

groups in Airlos, spociflöally, Corsiuans, and that we vould Ilke to bare him

spot, asseas, and sonommend son dopendable, quick-vitted persons for our use.

(Coment:

It was thought boat to withbold our truo, apeciflo requirements pending

the final decison to due laNll.) do agrood to go on the trip for ua.

Negarding coror for the trip, Malka, sugzastod that be travel as a

saloian for a German Mira produoing colo oparatod soft drink, coffeo, ato.,

mchinas. He alroodt had a brochure from this company and stated that he could

easily obtain an authenticating to-whos-ltang-oonoem lotter from the ouner. The

fLEA LE SCHINA RISKIRT, HURLIER AND CO., CHH; SCIVILH, WESTYALIA; tEE ONeS

CATE TYPED.

DATE ENSIGHES

2 Hovenber 1960

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

"CROSS REFERENT TO -

LESTA: ON SYNIOR ANO MUNDER

AUD 247

MADQUAGTERS FILE NUNDER

ORIGINATING

VICER

[A. M. SILVER]O3

rbo

COORDINATING

DATE

LAT

4652

OFF CIRS ARME

PRISORED.

OFICE

FI/D/OPS

OFFICE SPHAL

WE/2. 1047

DONE 1010|J

DC/AP

2002

5/BR

---

## Page 2

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

ABAFRES SOMET

38/247:22

la sa mona, sto le asserted by Matri to be a fled. (Coments Ega.

roos brya born run on the fira and the eras, idta negatito surulta..

• stated Chas In enallas dta Corsion 18 La sontinen ad-

¿toon MARKE, Lo lug to too Jarute 1n Parta Dovenso of Me ande

De mon told that conteet dth an lanen muld be evillable nt

_ Botes mr laft idta Jonest for Me use in briaflag

2ploa m//204 provide JUady with mat of the infornation Deossnary for MallL"

Sinal Delartagi the only othos inforsation l sotlos noosisery at this ties aros

12-10

on rosaipt of tale Alayntab

to be nand by CRICHARD 1l she seeta Markid.

Jo callo Insessourg the allas

.D.

Imambong to inalula la the briefing to lalit the statement that

1s croo vinta to rot ball of hin, abs wll telephone him betroen 0830 and 0900

hours or botages 1700 and 1730 hours as lila hotel, La Goals da Bed, Mill firo hia

a lad, go a rage

Trietta tote to sa that yon rould on hare and anted

Hanks mill reply with a statemat of approciation. Je

hold be told ta trombour

Coat 11 ho meive essa a all, he will mot

18o to sen than to be traladed In Me briartig in antiolpasion of the posalbi-

12102898 thas

Station my plot up infomation affoeding MArk, during hia tay

unlas be rus into obetnal alarly regiring disenta or anses dangar to

to bossbourg Ho vial not contant his aloes as alex up anthing affooting..

hia or ta mlaalon

"ій нод"

MARS abonla ho tall to pund sons tina astumlly trylaz to sel

Mallon has my partloular guidanes in this repeat

ie

La dealtag toth three tipal. lu mum that aftar bo bas plored the por 1bill-

Sas paragraphs l uni a abould be conside al last meario. ditsongo be vill be

amro of 11 Dos his ona sorel artialty, mutil should la apociMoally tald to

bo alert to tha faas that the alraloe la lah la plll ba daalloe er coally

looded mila pollos informate unt tas so mat lin so emotos mcam outlan.

No aborld alto ba told that to do nos conalder eula a slanton autoa on be artended

al tafialtus Il la lu s08 ablo to dial to tpes sa vest ual astango future

costaot (modelos aimlo, etd.) sittis tou vets approsinstair, 1e 1o sallialy

that addi deal tes sill go. hin upe, although te have an oper mind on 801a

vaint En do no, must dia to food bant to mult rotra vich souras, 11 be camot

VIBR

---

## Page 3

14-00000

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH-

(4004/47 22

Page 3

Mind the types ve send la Dakar,

auceto mat be condussed vith Lary mintan Flak.)

Jouvsor lu authorined to provide ManIz. vith funda for travel, 1400

or Line aspenasa in baur (20 days at 820 per dar), und 8300 for operationa

spencose S/A thie total to lgus, otting Cost Canter 1123-2003-1000 and eito thi

spatch us inthortly.

(On his roturn be nond mubalt only the airline ticket stu,

Intel bille, and counting for the 1300 operational expenges only. These abould

be sent to 117u83/0 enly.) If he neede more funde 1a

The can obtain them 12-10

Chare fron circulo, Ate travel meervatione abould bo made fron Pranklure, but

andor no elrountances fron Lembourg or Paris. J0UVEN07 18 authoriied to fire

him monsy for therel to Trankfurt for this purpose. (le will dealde on hia roturn

how moch to pay him for his trio ois the niaalon.)

6. If there are my queuttons on the part or 112-10

lor Laxembourg, please

oablo to onah otbis, vich trifo to Ege..

or to lige, with info to the other atation.

Callas should rare do tala dispatch and be alaçgod RXBAI LAURICIS ZZACUl.

In vloss of the faot that the cover installation la sot

guered during of duty hour, i ta lage on tid door is to la or 1o pees-

mary notos and destroyed after the firut rooding, Muni's ploture ant all cable

traillo, al vall as your copies of LUDA 234, should also bo destroyed as soon as 22

will bo lamodletely evideat.

DARTE M. PRESEND

Aztechmant

Froto, as stated, 1 oy

51 stribatlong 12-10

GIBR

---

