roa-t02i7-40217]

‘

jo % better cover than I pave fast could be, varied as I went along.

/

wy
. T could go back dnd check. The only thing I do need as I say, szeusex.

— (pisetbrg) 2 ND

Portunately, we would hope lene not too many people are going to compare

the story. The other thing, the final thing- - the reason I. must Inve 3
cwithiny 7 cyou'r,

ted :

sone idea “tee reasonably short period of time about what gant inte!
w/ What you're think.
in, wemacpomeetat 6 becauea~ I have to go ahead and make up my mind what

“$B I'm going to do about the Atlantic Monthly— if anything,
the Encounter cthough-
even how I handle = a ales thing, 51 think I'll just make

jBocounter thing
‘a wort of first person account of Revolution, more or Jess. debunking the
CccecreererenierneeD sort of

press. There was another proposal that I do another, tte for Atlantic
ut under 2 pseudonym, words~~
Monthly, ‘debunking the Chinage myth in Burope? in in other shoving the
he: is and >
Ppenotration charge, showing how little penetration 1actually,.how small the
parties
groups gam hablar sy in terns of the pamapx they involve.

That was the thing. ft course I could do anyway. But the pani ail I want

to do this, @l have a very serious financial problen. I “cou: running ap out of
ay brother-islav's largesse which is ceasing, and I have not been able

to find any work here. I have tried seriously for several months, without
any success whatsoever, and so this financial thing, you know, imposes

on me a very, very close deadline. I need some money very quickly.

Gs personally curious about your reluctance to write on the >)
The FPCC business is simply domestic, in the United States. There

were many people involved in it, who were (had) nothing to do-- like
poor Walter Bowwhoa I knew very well, in New York, before he was arrested,
with the
@ Communist, though Walter is perfectly capable of noyonty blowing up

the Statue of Liberty but shooting anybody in the United States necessary,
he feels, to secure some sort of end to the type of oppression that he

feels. iis Gt)

Wow this is not te in other words, I wouldn't want-—, the type

one could agaéa doy ;
of thing to qo,again” with ‘hie FPCC thing, the same type of thing I

would do with saint! You gust take the statements of J. Bdgar Hoover

group. Now, Walter is no Communist and never will be

and contrast them with the reality - Hoover made a statement once about
the F PCC showing a curious coexistence- a curicus cooperation between

Trotakyites and Communists. In SoS haha a Shere was a violent battle

Oherd >
. going on between the wor, That wi was actually done by the Comittee was

_ Benerally done by people who had nothing to do with the Communist Party
PONG PB UBF PE a Lit Fete ee
nor with the 42 FWP ers5y, Certainly at one tine the Trotekyites tried to



|
;
|
i
i
i
i

/

came very close to doing See 50.

fake over $—= in fact / thay

In other words this # raises a totally different question. That's why I
just want

don't want to go from one to the other, | unless you {arexrtwkersetedate} a

Beneral line of debunking. - ~——— I ‘know what he has in his He has
axpenexxi idea of sort of an inside story of conspiracy. raypsvual :

Ceort of »
thing it's just a story ofpblundering and opportun-- well, sort of. i

adventugism without-£%@ many of the things that are certainly imagined, |
dously the Fece-
you know, ony Seaman! did rally together bp very strange people, =x
= nilttant;gnom = in other words, wap al ‘excitable left wing elenent&
in the United States, are people who were not in any organization, gathered
7 gethe Cuban Revolution? .
around the FPCC. At a certain time there was a romant. ing about @ame————~
wsittepben, it appeagled to students, in particular it appea: ed to such
Negroes, Fe appealed in far less degrse to some of the older. people of.
the old nie who were in the Communist Party, who had been in the CommunisZ;
fins
Party; vere # very frightened of it. wot Sely they had had the McCarthy
\ ‘
experience i behind then, but that wasn't the main reason, Jt was simply
that they had I supppose, reacly put behind them this sort of effervescent
leftisng, which they would call infantile leftism. And thi thy feauppaca
out of the FPCC I suppose so many things have happened, I pie now “Qessieix
Oswald was a ecrewball and certainly had nothing really to do with the
Committee. In fact the true story about that I don't know, and I don't
think anyone else does know. But certainly it is nevertheless normal that
& person like that would, have been attracted to the FPCC.:
A People “like that- - gé's attractive (to them)-
. s peopsectéhonthat
Now if you Lived th SF group. The 3) a attracts owe}
the Left elexent and you find people in SIRS know that a Te tacue number of
cube. cubs.
People who were in the FPCC gut are EXKMD in SHI’ and the NIX Smems

people, for instance, were the biggest consumers of Revolution in the

South. But at the same time, this facesn't mean that they are Communists.

It means that many of them are, if you will, anarchistg= types, or people

who are @2@§8Bst disgusted with the orthodox Commu: ist party; in other

(Praia h Ma f EUs

words they on’ t see any particular hope/. This is another thing, that

most of the Suiz ‘people were, and still are, non-fiolent, ~ nit y
Keven though they were interested in violencesgk and revolution, ae have,

a sort of feeling, well, as one person said, “we want to make a revolution

but we want to make ~ era Well, I don’t know how they're going

to do that. They don’ ¥ nee how to make a revo) ut sot >)

1 peiben shaul F aan i

Anyway, this raises so many questions- A. that’s fea I don't want to

. get involved in it. Anyway, it’s too early. It's not like Revolution, which

|



- 4g a simple thing - you can say, ip an eggshell (sic).
(the FPCC continues to be wrapped in a great deal of enctionalisn., d)

Gh-h-h.
: i
(Goxt question- what's your inclination about how to proceed with—-) :
Ah-h-h, I don't know how Sfe—u- really IT came te Englan . XT was

sort of fed up with the situation in Prance, anyway. (tenant ‘4n terms |

of Revolution, long before it even collppsed, I had changed ny views about
Thought
it angjwell, the whole thing-=— I didn't know how to get out of it. And so

coming here I'd be able to find some sort of work, In fact I on been

promised by someone who is a friend of a very prominent trade unionist

\.he hasn't been in thi

that he would be able to get me something = ~ but/xkxxe been totally”
jos has been

i

}

that was solved by (laughing) by the events thenselves. We- I Fo le eh that ‘|

unable to carry out, bis pronise. ages

(vould thie have been political type work?)
No, it-was-going-to-be-just- he was going to get me a job as sub-

editor for a while and then get me into an editorial thing. Then I tried

with many different contacts kag here in public relations and so on, |

and had several jobs offered. I never had any explanation why I didn’t

get them. I don't know whether it is politics, racialism ~ although & that

plays s role in’ In any case, I never mm. . _ { ;
ine lands LL oes C I was definitely offered
ie here sv with

a job, right around the corner S&.@ieasestex Upper xhoxe

of Barwa

the American PR firm gf called ¥

as publications director. They called me and said yes. This went on for

months, negotiations and so on. And finally she got the money and I was

introduced to a British Colonel who had become newly associated with her,

and I was supposed to start work for them, and thie I got a letter saying
I never was able to

no. I don't know why. Euxrexesxeexkueexckioxte get any reason whatever.

t
I'm not particularly keen on being active with political
borkegert at |

I find it really, frankly, very boring, a certain point.
things. ry
I'm not like Leo Labedz —whofs_ can tell youfabout
of Souall,

all six Trotekyite partie: if you're interested- -

(Gore that fellow you mentioned)
He's got an enormous zest for this sort of thing, and he’s very

learned. He's very kgs knowledgeable. I don't think ste After a certain
point in dealing with this sort of micro-bidlogy I get rather tired of it.
But on the other hand, one has to see what one can do, within the range
of one's possibilities. :

