# 104-10071-10101

## Page 1

T104-10071-101011

-DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET RIGAT

MINED.

Chief, WOMUSE

Chief, European Division

FROM

Chief of Station, Ottawa

SUBJECI MH CHAOS

Congress of Black Writers Conference in Montreal

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

Action: FYI

Reference: OTTAWA 5648, 20 September 1968

PROCESSING ACTION

IMARKED FOR INDEXING

¡NO INDEXING REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED DESK:

¡CAN JUDGE INDEXING

¡ MICROFILM

Attached is a SMABOVE report which is further to Reference.

Reference was based on SMABOVE'S letter of 18 September which is

mentioned in paragraph 2 of the attached report. The attached

report is for WOFIRM only. SMABOVE has given the report to LNERGO

also, and asks that we not take any

action which might jeopardize

Attachment: H/W

As Stated

Distribution:

2- Chief, wOMSE w/att h/w

1

- Chief,

EUR w/att h/w

SEE 1

CROSS REFERENCE TO

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

OCOA-13493

CATION

SECRET/RYBAT

DATE

7539

27 September 1968

HOS FILE NUMBER

---

## Page 2

14.00000

september 19, 1968

advised that

Ectert liartin

Labour

League

nelsocialiste

(Ligue

Montreal Ouvriere) (1.j.0.

Quebec,

a menber of the

socialist

- Trotskyist)

had

received

a leaflet on the Congress of slack viriters Conference

scheduled to

be held at the stephen Leacock Bldg., and the student

Union

NcG1l1 University, Montreal, que.,

from October 11 to

October 14,

19€8.

The leaflet

outlined

the program of the Conference

to be dedicated to the late Rev. Martin Luther KING and Malcolm %,

as follows:

Cost of Registration: $4.00

Program:

Towards the Second Emancipation of the Dynamics of

Black Liberation.

1.

2.

3.

Origins and Consequences of the Black-white Conference

with C.L.R. JAMES and Alvin POUSSIN.

The "Terms" of the Modern Black Awareness with C.L.a.

JAMES and Robert HILI.

Be-evaluation from the Past - (in French) by rene

DEPESTRE.

4. Civilizations of Ancient ifrica by Richard MOORE.

5. Contribution of the Afro-American and imerican to

American History in Civilization by Leros JONES.

t. Bacial Discrimination 1n Britain by Richard SMriL.

?. an Evening of Soul Music.

8. Black Power in U.S. by Stokley CARMICHAEL.

9.

Black Revolution 3rd World Capitalism by. Eldridge

CLEAVER and James FOREMAN.

10.

3 HOurS fui Resolutions.

Editorial:

"It 1s in this context, this Congress of Black Writers

hopes to make its contribution.

Here for the lst time in Canada an

been taught to forget.

in thought

New World. and in

The history,

the Blackman's own response,

action to the conditions of his existence in the

List of Names:

Jamalgen;

Haitian; Richara MOORE, from Barbados;

LerOl JONES; Bichard SMALI, Jamaican; Stokley CARMICHAEL,

Negro;

Eldridge CLEAVER from Little Rock,

Arkansas; James FOREMAN; and

ROCKY JONES from

Truro, Nova Scotia.

JAMES, POUSSIN, HILL, MOORE, DEPESTRE, JONES, CAPMICHAEL,

and CLEAVER were mentioned

in our letter of Septenber 18,

1968

concerning this Conference.

James FOREMAN is believed identical

to James FORMAN, an executive member of

the student Non-Violence

Coordinating Committee in the United States.

have no

identifiable reference on Richard SMALL.

ROCKy JONES, identical

to Burnley Allan JONES of Halifax, Nova

Scotia,

is a prominent

Canadian nilitant leader and organizer in the Halifax Negro

community.

---

