# 104-10336-10002

## Page 1

104-10336-10002

work copy

Assassination Records Review Board

600 E Street NW • 2nd Floor • Washington, DC 20530...

(202) 724-0088 • Fax: (202) 724-0457

VSEN

BOARD

October 27, 1996

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

Mr. Barry Harrelson

' Historical Review Group

Center for the Study of Intelligence

Central Intelligence Agency

Washington, D.C. 02505

Re:

Status of Assassination Records Review Board Requests to CIA for

Additional Information and Records

Dear Barry:

I am writing to follow-up on our letter of October 7, 1996, regarding the status of

Assassination Records Review Board requests for information and records from the

CIA.

Formal Requests:

CIA-1

Review Board staff review continues. No CLA action needed at this time.

CIA-6 (Cables and dispatches)

CIA has agreed to make records available (or to have a response ) by

November 1, 1996.

CIA-7 (Histories)

Counterintelligence. CIA has made material available and Review Board

staff examination is ongoing.

Mexico City. The Review Board awaits CLA's compilation of the portion

of the Mexico Station history that was shown to G. Robert Blakey.

BOARD MEMBERS: John R. Tunheim, Chair • Henrv F. Graff • Kermit L. Hall • William I Joyce • AnnaK Nelson

---

## Page 2

13-00000

Mr. Barry Harrelson

October 27, 1996

Page 2

Other Histories. No response has been received to our agreement that

CIA identify within two weeks the histories that can be made available

and those that should be subject to further discussions.

CIA-8 (intelligence community staff)

CIA had promised to provide a report to the Review Board within two

weeks. Nothing has been made available.

CIA-9 (Publications and analytical materials)

We have received no materials responsive to this request. Additionally,

no response has be received from CIA regarding the list of publications

that are identified in an LBJ Library finding aid that the Review Board

staff provided.

CIA-10 (Interagency source register)

CIA has not yet made available the records that it had agreed to provide

within two weeks. was Oswald

on)

CIA-11 (Duran's original statement)

CIA has agreed to make some further attempts to locate Duran's original

statement.

CIA-12 (MWAVE materials)

CIA has agreed to make materials available on a rolling basis.

Informal requests:

Spas Rankin. CIA has made the Spas Rankin file available to the Review Board.

Review Board staff research continues. When research is complete, staff will

liscuss issues with CLA

files firm collection pullect wart

TRB set reven

IN 23738. CLA is searching for cable number IN 23738 (7 July 1962), - Copy seut

Marilyn Murrett. CIA has made the Marilyn Murrett file available to the Review •

Board. Review Board staff research continues. When research is complete, staff

---

## Page 3

13-00000

Mr. Barry Harrelson

October 27, 1996

Page 3

will discuss issues with CIA.

HTLINGUAL. It is the Review Board staff's understanding that CIA continues

its search for HTLINGUAL records and will provide an oral briefing on the

subject. It is also our understanding that some HTLINGUAL records have been

located, but that they have not yet been made available to the Review Board.

Recent and additional informal requests that we have discussed with you:

Operational Reports for Cuban Exile Groups. The Review Board staff has been

unable to locate in the collection monthly operational reports for the DRE, CRC,

or MRR for the period between March 1963 and March 1964. Please advise us

whether these records exist and when we may review them.

Moscow. CIA has been asked to search for additional information regarding

Mosco as discussed with Michelle Combs on October 24, 1996.

Tape. CIA has been asked to search for additional information regarding a tape

as discussed with Irene Marr on October 24, 1996.

Please let me know of any inaccuracies in this letter or any suggestions that you have.

Thank you for your help and cooperation.

Sincerely

T. Jergmy Cunn

General Counsel and Associate Director for Research

---

## Page 4

13-00000

IR-03

8-27-96

Notes on ARRB Requests CIA 15 (Ex Gunn)

HTLINGUAL :

per DO/OGC/Pereira, primary collection was

destroyed in response to court order; however, documents

may/do? exist in other files plus records on numerous FOIA /

and Privacy requests

and litigation.

Pereira recommended a briefing on HTLINGUAL for Gunn

Per Ellie, two DO boxes of HTLINGUAL Records at Center;

individual who would be best briefer on leave -- will

follow-up with next week.

Per

Pete on HELENGLAR.

(?), OGC, search is under way to locate OGC

has action) - will contact

me when located; agreed that briefing for Gunn was

appropriate once we had details of disposition of material.

Gunn - will be over Thr. a.m. to review responses to old

requests and discuss HTLINGUAL and other new requests

Meeting of Gunn -8/29/96

# will not submit CIA-15 as formal

request pendu, buefing a HELENieL

a odefiles

......

---

## Page 5

13-00000

CIA-15 (HTLINGUAL)

Dear John:

The Assassination Records Review Board requests access to all files, documents, and

records related to the project code-named HTLINGUAL.. To the extent that

HTLINGUAL may be known by any other name or cryptonym, records related to that.

other name or cryptonym are included within the request.

Without limitation, this request should be understood to include any operational

reports, lists of names, criteria, protocols, or other documents that explain the purpose,

'activities, accomplishments, and rationale for HTLINGUAL.

This request should be interpreted in the broadest reasonable sense. To the extent that

you may be-uncertain as to whether a record may be included within the scope of our

request, you should consult with us to determine whether we seek to include it. To the

extent that some or all of this request may be unnecessarily burdensome or present

difficulties that we may not have foreseen, please consult with us so that we may

consider revising the request accordingly.

Sincerely,

Sunn in levegts

* intercepted insenly on cover for operation

* Internatinil Rescue Committée

torge reports??

---

## Page 6

13-00000

INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

SENATE RESOLUTION 21

HEARINGS

BLORS T3

SELECT COMMITTEE TO STUDY

ERNMENTAL OPERATIONS WITH

RECT TO INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

OF THO

UNITED STATES SENATE

NINETY-FOURTE CONGRESS

NEST SESSION

VOLUME 4

MAIL OPENING

OCTOBER 21, 22, AND 21, 1975

d for the ue of the Balect Committee To Study Goverumental

Operationa With Respect to Intelligence Activites

D.S. GOVFENENT PRINTING OFFICE

WASHINGTON: 1916

For aslo by the Aupertatendent of Document, V.H. Covarunt Priming Odica

Washington, D.C. 20102-Frlos $t.40

---

## Page 7

13-00000

INTAL OPERATIONS

CIVITIES

ER, Arizona

•TELdS. Ja. Maryland

(EEB, Penolfleaala

ret

CONTENTS

HEARING DAYS

October 21,

1975--

Tednesday,

October 22, 1975.

Friday, October 24, 1975--

LIST OF WITNESBES

• TOESDAY, OCTOBER 31, 1975

Sewert, Gordon, former Inpector Genersi, Ceutral Intelligence Agency,

incompanied by Stanley Gaines, counsel."""Inapector

abernathy:

Thomas, former staf

member.

spector General's Mu,

Cao Job, Tone A stay meaner, spector here wria, countel

Glennon, John, former staff member,

Intelligenca Agency--

imbord,

Howard

J.3.

former

Director of Becurity, Central intelligence

Agency, accompanied by John Debelias, counsel --

WEDNESDIY, OCTOBER 32, 1975

Edward J., former Postmaiter General, accompanied by James F.

ily Jasn, tormer Formater General, accompanied by Dougles

Marant counsel -

ally, James, 8r., counsel for J. Edward Day.

Hontague,

Henry, former Chief Inspector, Postal Inspection Service.

William, former Chief Inspector,

Etes; Richard, Lombar Cale to Pract on dormer Director, Crites Intel

-Igence Agency-

Page

41

119

3

3

3

26

42

42

42

68

70

70

B3

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 24, 1975

lobell, John, former Attomey General, socompanied by Wiliam G.

indi, WRaymond, Anistant Director, Inelligence Division,

yea, Willan, Section Chief of Counterlatelligence, Federal Burea

pore, Donald E., former FBI Inspector

ma, - John

Assistant Director, Legal Counsel Division,

• Federal

Bareau of Investigation......

Meir

HEARINGS• EXHIBITS!

7- November 31

inspector General Sumor do to of eur Operations re

1955 memorandum 1o

nic Project HTLINGUAL.

-May 4, 1950 memorandum tron James Ankleton ió Director of

-Central Intelligence re Project HTLINGUAL_.

June 3, 1971 memorandum for the rocord re meeting at DCI's

• office conceming HTLINGUAL.

119

14?

147

147

147

175

187

195

197

der eriteria determined by the

committee. la

consultation with the Central Intel-

Agency

and

These

the

federal

froma

documents.

Bureau

of Ioveatigation,

certaln

ma terlale

have

been

a0mie sf which were

maintaia the

procedured

of cerealo

made

lovolved, and to

protect

and recthode.

with respect to protecting

Indivlaaale and groupa These delecioen do not change the meterlal

these exbibles

(TIN)

---

## Page 8

13-00000

IV

No. 5 Augunt 30, 1971 memorandum to Deputy Chief, Counterintel-

ligence re HTLINGUAL Correspondence of members of the

U.S. Government

December 22, 1971 memorandur for the record re handling oe

Iscussion with Assistant Deputy Director for plans concertine

HTLINGUAL

congressional

subcommittee

No. & abria 10, 106l memorandum than Khar Helms to Deputy

Chick, Counterintelligence re HTLINOTAL

No. I May 19, 1971 memorandum for the record re DOTs Meeting

No. 10 Center 1, 196l Memorandum from Richard Helms to Doputy

No. 12- March 20, 1970 letter from Richard Helms to J. Edgar Hoover-==-

Counterin-

To. 14 July 28, 1970 memorandom for the record from Fuchard. Helm

re

Discussion

with Attorney. General Mitchall on Domestic

Intelligence-

No. 15 September 18, 1970 memorandum from John Dean to the Attorney

No. 16- Meren 12, 1060 memorandum From SAC, San Francisco to FBi

Headquarters re Confidentil Bource...

No. 17-December õ, 1973 6AC memorandum 58-73.

No. 18- October 2, 1964 memorandum from D. E. Moore to W. C. Sullivan

No. 19 February®

Febronage,

1065 memorandum from A IT. Belmont to Clyde

Tolson re the Long Commitice..

No. 20- Tolch, Demon Cale, Raun Sol, Dear Flover to Me

1075 memorandum

more, un or De rect re Operational

re Project Hunter, Espionage I

No. 23 August 24, 1966 from M. E. Tripletz to W. A. Branigan

No. 24 May 25, 1965 Airtal from SAC, San Francisco to FBI Bead

No. 25 May 3 sales

1875 Decision in

" Lamoni v. Postmaster General of the

No. 28 January 18, 1966 memorandum from T'Bl Hendquarters to SAC,

San Francisco re Confidential Source.

No. 27-May 17, 1954 memorandum to Director of Security from

Helms re SRPOINTER-------

APPENDIX

October 24, 1975 letter from J. Edward Day to the Senate Select Com-

mittee..-

Page

190

200

202

203

205

206

210

aL1

219

222

224

225

328

232

233

235

238

24l

244

245

249

250

256

257

2.59

INTE

SELECT CONT

The commi

Russell Sana

presiding.

Pregent: S

•Colorado, Go

"also prese:

Schwarz, Jr..

minorit

Ibe Chau

Today, and

quiry into the

Fing the mail ,

fundamentall

laws of the la

details of the

plan.

• One provis

mall opening

"already busily

had been doin

... We are less

grams than w

take root and

How did this

House, the Ji

What reviews

Zin these instit

p Though ma.

is most are th

liberties. The

through whic

function:

As & case s

The inner life

With which

their mall pro

cism of it fr

---

## Page 9

13-00000

MEMORANDUM

AL COLZECTIONS

AMARE IN FULL

To:

arty Harrelson

2000

From:-

= T Jeremy Gunn

Subject Requeststo CIA for R

rds Related Information- UPDATE

Date:

jantaryo. 1997

0031618-7164

The followings

alist of our curtent requests for information. These should be

considered int

uest for which wen waityour response. If you have any

additiona

youthould calleither Bob Skwirot or the analysts

ing to formalize any of the requests into our numbered

Se

01

diso prefer

partial

response

10/96

pending

9/6/

9/6/96

pending

9/6/96

partial

response

10/96

pending

complete

10/96

pending.

pending

pending

pending

pending

pending

pending

9/6/96

9/96

9/96

70/17/96

10/24/96

10/24/96

11/06/98

12/10/98

12/10/96

01/07/97

Are al files in collection? If CIA has any

edditonal tiles eg, personnel, 201, etc.), we would like to

Spas Fakin tile In Box 15 tolder 34. Who is the person

signing the DCD messages? Did Raikin work for CIA? Did

he work for DCD/OOr What is relationship between

documents in fle and Raikin?

Location of cable identified in JFK

1993.07.20.10:18:29:650630 (Box 34, F 22) p. 2 Cable

number: N 24733) 7 Juy 62 We can send fax it helpful.

Mania Mortales. Are all files in collection? If ClA

has any additional files (e.g., personnel, 201, etc.), we

would like to request them.

Information on HTLINGUAL

Information on Angleton's filing system at Cl

Location of DRE, CRC, MRA(?) monthly operational

reports

Tapes

Moscow

Tapes of Alvarado Interrogation

New Orleans, Hunter Leake, Clay Shaw, QKENCHANT

and ZRCUFF

Claude Bares Capehart

Howard Guebler

Combs

Combs

Legaspi

Combs

Combs

Combs

Legaspi

Marr

Combs

Marr

Legaspi

Skwirot

Gunn

---

## Page 10

13-00000

re CIA IR-D3

NATION

Assassination Records Review Board

600 E Street NW • 2nd Floor • Washington, DC 20530

(202) 724-0088 • Fax: (202) 724-0457

December 18, 1997

Mr. John Pereira

Chief

Historical Review Group

Center for the Study of Intelligence

Central Intelligence Agency

Washington, D.C. 02505

CIA SPECIAL COLLECTIONS

RELEASE IN FULL

2000

Re:

Status of CIA Responses to Assassination Records Review Board's Requests for

Additional Information and Records

Dear John:

I am writing to follow-up on our telephone call earlier today and to convey my serious

concern about the status of CIA's responses to the Review Board's requests for

additional information and records. Although CIA has completed its responses to

several requests, and many others have been answered in part, a significant number of

requests have not been answered - including some that were made more than two

years ago. On many occasions we have been assured that responses would be

forthcoming, only to have promised dates come and go without answers. It is now

extremely important that these requests be answered promptly so that we may conduct

a proper follow-up if necessary. The issues that we can now identify as being of the

highest priority are identified in the text below by double asterisks (**)' and we request

that they be answered within the next month. We request that the remaining requests

be answered by April 1, 1998.

The remainder of this letter is divided into two parts: first, a listing of the formal

requests for information and records, and second, a listing of the informal requests for

information and records. Please let me know if your understanding of any of the

following points differs from ours so that we can resolve any potential discrepancies.

'As identified more fully below, the issues are: CIA-1 Organizational Material;

CIA-6 Cables and Dispatches, CIA-13 Backchannel Communications, CIA-IR-03

HILINGUAL Documents, CIA-IR-04 Disposition of Angleton Files, CIA-IR-07 Claude

Barnes Capehart, CLA-IR-15 Electronic "take" from Mexico City, CLA-IR-21 DRE

Monthly Operational Reports, CLA-IR-22 "A" Files on Clay Shaw and Jim Garrison.

BOARD MEMBERS: John R. Tunheim, Chair • Henry F. Graff • Kermit L. Hall • William L. Joyce • Anna K. Nelson

---

## Page 11

13-00000

... ats,

Mr. John Pereira

December 18, 1997

Page 6

Informal Requests

Each of the following informal requests was previously made to CIA. For future

reference, they will be referred to by the "Informal Request" (IR) number provided

below.

CIA-IR-01 Personnel Assigned to Post from 1959-64 (see RIF 104-10065-10199).

This request is complete.

CIA-IR-02 Location of Cable Identified in JFK 1993.07.20.10.18:29:650630.

This request is complete.

**CIA-IR-03 Full Computer Search for List of Documents in HTLINGUAL File.

CIA agreed to undertake a computer run for all HTLINGUAL documents in

April 199%. To date, no response has been received by ARRB. All computer

searches for these documents should be documented in a formal letter for the

record.

**CIA-IR-04 Disposition of Angleton's Files.

The Review Board seeks to ensure that it has taken all reasonable steps to

account for any files that James Jesus Angleton possessed or controlled that

related to the assassination and to Lee Harvey Oswald. Because of the perceived

controversy surrounding the disposition of Angleton's files, the Review Board

believes it prudent to obtain a clear understanding of the types of files that he

maintained and their ultimate disposition. (The Review Board does not seek to

explore any subjects in Angleton's files beyond those that may have pertained to

the assassination.) To date, CIA has made available certain documents provided

by the CIC and the case files for Mangold v. CIA. The Review Board requests any

additional information in the possession of CIA that would explain the

disposition of Angleton's files.

In addition, the ARRB staff's review of the Mangold v. CIA files designated

additional documents from those files as assassination records. These documents

are: Tab D, documents Nos. 95, 109-116, 120, and 121; and from the Denied

---

## Page 12

13-00000

Working Note - HRG Internal Use Only

HILINGUAL

Michelle,

Attached is a partial DO response to the HTLINGUAL (CIA IR

The DO continues to search files that have

HTLINGUAL references and for information on destruction of

DO HTLINGUAL records.

The destruction of HTLINGUAL Files is

also addressed by the Office of Security in Request CIA #16.

Barry

---

## Page 13

13-00.000

CONFIDENTIAL

207/N98

20 January 1998

MEMORANDUM FOR:

FROM:

(V)

(U)

SUBJECT:

REFERENCE:

(U)

(U)

Chief, JFK Declassification

Project/HRP/OIM/DA

Fredrick C. Wickham, Jr.

Chief, External Support Group/IMS/ DO

Central Intelligence Agency

DO Response to Informal Request CIA IR #03

ARRB's Memorandum dated 18 December 1997,

RE: Status of CIA Responses to

Assassination Records Review Board's

Requests for Additional Information and

Records

(U) This memorandum is submitted in response to informal request

number 03 (CIA IR #03) from the Assassination Records Review Board

(ARRB) •

**CIA-IR-03 Full Computer Search for List of Documents in HTLINGUAL File

(C) First, as an outcome of the Pike and Church Committees, all

HTLINGUAL files

were destroyed. Copies that may have been made and put

into individual's files surface as the files are reviewed. The DO ran a

search on the term "HTLINGUAL." Some records were -identified as

destroyed. Some were not so marked but are not locatable under the job

number identified; however, given that there is no requirement to record

destroyed records under the federal statutes for disposition programs

and given limited resources for noting files destroyed, this is not

uncommon. The HTLINGUAL seach further identified files because of

Freedom of Information Act queries; however, these were not HTLINGUAL

files per se, but files which contained the FOIA requester queries for

HTLINGUAL information.

Fredrick C. Wickham,

JI.

CL BY: 2103140/

CL REASON I.5 (c)

DECL ON: X1

DRV From: COL 19-87

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 14

13-00000

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

On 8 April 1994, the complete set of SRPOINTER and

HTLINGUAL security support files and indexes held by the

Office of Security were destroyed in accordance with the

guidelines set forth in the approved Records Control

Schedules 31-76 and 31-83 and by the Office of General

Counsel.

see CIA-Ile»

---

## Page 15

13-00000

8-27-96

Notes on ARRB Requests CIA-15 (fr Gunn)

HTLINGUAL: per DO/OGC/Pereira, primary collection was

destroyed in response to court

order; however, documents

may/do? exist in other files plus records on numerous FOIA /

and Privacy requests and litigation.

Pereira recommended a briefing on HTLINGUAL for Gunn

Per Ellie,

two DO boxes of HTLINGUAL Records at Center;

individual who would be best briefer on leave -- will

follow-up with next week.

OGC. search is under way to locate OGC

file on HTLINGUAL

has action) -- will contact

me when located; agreed that briefing for Gunn was

appropriate once we had details of disposition of material.

Gunn - will be over Thr. a.m. to review responses to old

requests and discuss HILINGUAL and other new requests

Velie

леро

meetay d/Gunn -8/29/96

*will not submit CIA-15 as formal

request ponden, tel

see-folder in quey box

---

## Page 16

13-00000

≤ (HTLINGUAL)

Dear John:

The Assassination Records Review Board requests access to all files, documents, and

records related to the project code-named HTLINGUAL. To the extent that

HTLINGUAL may be known by any other name or cryptonym, records related to that

other name or cryptonym are included within the request.

Without limitation, this request should be understood to include any operational

reports, lists of names, criteria, protocols, or other documents that explain the purpose,

activities, accomplishments, and rationale for HTLINGUAL.

This request should be interpreted in the broadest reasonable sense. To the extent that

you may be uncertain as to whether a record may be included within the scope of our

request, you should consult with us to determine whether we seek to include it. To the

extent that some or all of this request may be unnecessarily burdensome or present

difficulties that we may not have foreseen, please consult with us so that we may

consider revising the request accordingly.

Sincerely,

sunn interests

can perceit

*intercepleliuson. in cover lin operatin

* Internatin il Rescue Dren, tee

---

## Page 17

13-00000

Facsimile Cover Sheet

To: Barry Harrelson

Company: HRG

Phone: (30292

Fax: 703-243-8343

From:

Company:

OGC/LD

Phone:

76124

Fax: 703-874-3124

Date: 09/05/96

Pages including this

cover page: 7

Comments: All OGC has is tie following destruction authorization. I am told that lf you

need the actual destruction record, you will need to go to the DO.

(Linda

---

## Page 18

13-00000

Desaral ceasel

88-05358

SURMILORIGINALANU A LURESTUINU

REQUEST FOR AUTHORIZATION

TO RETAIN OR DESTROY QIIESTIONABLE RECORDS

TO ‹ Chial, Information Resourca: Management Division, OlS

THRU: Cumponenil Rocords Mureemand Ollices

Direitorale Records Manusement Olfici

Information Management Gronih, IRMD/OlS

Office of Generad Counsel

1. DESTRUTION AUTHORIZATION NO. (Arigned by IRMD,/OIS)

YROM. (OFFICE DEDICATION ON ORIGINATONY

DDO/ TMS/ NPG/ TRMB

• DATE PREPARED

• 14 Dcccmber 1989

THE RECORDS IDENTIFICO DELOV ARE SCHEDULLS FOR IMMEDIATE DESTRUCTION; HOWEVER, THEY MAY DE SUBJECT TO ACIVAL OR IMPENDING LEGAL OR

INVESTIGATIYE REQUIREMENTS, AUTMORIZATION IS REQUESTEO EITHER TO RETAIM INE KÉCUKUS UN IN UESIKUT INEMAS SLMEUULEO. INE MEGUNUS AXE

BEING HELD FENDING RECEIPT OF AUTHORITATION. IF FURIAFE RETENTION IS RFOUIRFO, REVISFO DUSPOSITION INSTRUCTIONS MISSY AF FERVIDEO TA

INFORMATION RESOURCES MANAGEMENY DIVISION.

IDENTIFICATION OF RECORDS

4. SCHEDULE NO.

DDO/ IMS/05G

40-76

201C02

1954 - 1973

Sco

ALL 1

8, PROVIDE DETAILED DEECRITION ADIO URTINE GE ILCONDE AND/OF AIPACI COTY OY FORM INO, 0038, LE 40314, MARKED TO MADICATE VIIEM RECORDS ARE QUESTIONABLE.

EAPLAIN BASIS FUN UEICAMIMING INAI XECURUS AKE QUESHONARLE

PROJECT HILINGUAL

Project HTLINGUAL was

responsiblc for copying letters intercopted in the

U.S. Mull guing lo ind from the UssR.

The HILINGUAL Projoct was declared unlartui by the Kocketoller Commission

and cho Church Committec.

In accordance with their findings and with

motherical ion of the archivist of the United States und the Senato Commiete

on Intelligence, the HiLINGUAL rocords are to be dostroyed as soon as per

mitted by

ATtached for reference (Attachment 2) is the authorization to destroy

thase tocords by the National Archivist

with the concurrence

of the Senate Select Comnittee on Intelligence (6 April 1972 CONTINUED ONIPARATEPACE

C/OSG

ECORUS MARAGEMENI OTTLER

_ADO/ INO

C./D0/TMO

2-3596

a Deeds

EXTENSION

DATE

2-6035

EXIENSICIN

DAIL

2-7295

1%/20/17

AUTHORIZATIONTO RETAIN OR DESTROY RECORDS

12, TIRE NAME AND AICINAIUXE UF GENERAL GUUNSE KEPRESENTATVE

EXILNSION

DATI

15. TYCO NAME AND SIGNATURE OF CHIEF, INFORMATON RESCUICES MANAGEMENI OVISION DIS

Dare

RETALAPARTIAL:

DESTROY ALL

APPROVED

SAL 'PROVUE JUSIPLATON OR CUNINUEERLENION AISO PROVIDE PROPOSEO NEW DISPOSION INSIRUCTIONS.

"IDICATE UNDIE SECTION DABOVE WHICH DECORDE ARE TO BE RETANEO, THOSE NOY IDICATED FOR RETENDON ARE AUTHORIZED FOR IMMEDUITE DESTRUCTION!.

I CONTINUED ON SFPARATE PAGE

(18 38).

A-AS

108 141e

---

## Page 19

13-00000

HTLINGUAL INVENTORY

2.

3.

5.

Single xerox copy of opened letter (approximately 215,820>.

348

fu. Ft

Single microfilm copy of Indexed postal covers 6922 tilm

cassettes.

B.b Cu. Ft.

Single microfalm copy of indexed and unindexed postal covers

job number 77-833 61,235 - 16mm reels: 108 - 35um Film cart-

ridges: and 12 envelopes of film strips).

13 Cu. FT.

Subjecl files maintaned and used by the HILINGuAl analysts on

Individuals and organizations (job number 80-417).

25 cu. Ft.

HILINGUAL index consisting of six (G) reels of magnetic tape

and 37 - 16mn Film cassettes.

3 Cu. Ft.

Administrazive, backgound and referchee files concerning the

MILINGUAL PrOjeCt.

1.5 Cu. Ft.

7. Miscellaneous HTLINGUAL material - ten 610) parks undeveloped

TOTAL:

• 5 Cu. ft.

398-5 Cu. Ft.

---

## Page 20

13-00000

AISHOSITION AUTIONITY

(Sou Instructions on reverse)

AGEICY COPY

E0x0. 06.4018

GENCHAL SLAVICES ADMINISTRATION.

NATIONAL ARCHIVES AND RECAROS SERVICE. WASTINGION. DC

2040%

PERRA PACENCE ON ESTAULISAMENIL

•NCI

DATE AFFIVEN

2 G3

1,8

ARASON SUDOMDIOS

Opcrations Ditcetorate

3. AMP-ON SUADIVISION

22 AUG 1977

NOFIFICATION TO AGENCY

lo second one e milo lim arariadas al 86 19,5 L 3109o pac disposalre.

A, MALE OF DERSON WITH WHON TO CONFEA

5. TeL. ExT

George. Frates

352-7716

3-11-78 a in Billio

6. CERTICICAYE OF ACENCY REPRESENTATIVE:

I hereby certily that 1 am authorized du bet fur this agencs in malters pertaining to the disposal of the agency's recurs:

thal the secoras proposed for drsposal solas Request of 1

-(ngels) are not now needed for the business ol

this agency or will nut he needed atter the retention periods specied.

A Request for immediate disposal.

B Request tor disposal alfer a specilied period of time or request for permanent

С. BJA0Е

a. TITLE

BICH NO.

• DESCAPTION OF ITCH

Wilh Brucianina Ondge al Retendida Perdos

AssociaTe. Records linagemeat Officer

ЗАрікан стоЛ" ANS

The tale contains copies of 215,820 Letters and

pholuyraplis of 2,705,726 covers (envelopes) of unopened

letters wuch were interrepted duing mailing to and from

addresses in the U.S.S.R. and related indexes.

The andresses

were intelligence ligets during the period of 1954 to 1975.

Many of the originators and rucipients of the mil to ari

from the targer, andresses vere United States citizens.

Not included in this toquest for disposai are those

copies of lettors and photographs at covers which are at

Lhe presant tune the obiccts of Freedom of unionarien ArI

roquests and Privacy Acr. requeils, ur those that are

involved in litigation.

Similarly files which docit

he initiation, implementation,

and termination of this

nail intercept projcct (those thar may have listorica

value) will he retied in the CIA and bo maintained in

one can to resh i can can do on it!.

continuci maintenance of the files covered by chi:

Jispusil inquest conflicts with the provisions of ir

Privegy net.

5 U.S.C. 552a (a) (1) and (7) as rcll as

Section 5 (b) (4) of Excative Ordor 11905.

AMTIGITTIAIIAT

Floor 181 CEAS 801 101

---

## Page 21

13-00000

¡equeal lor Recorus Disuusition Autority-Continuation

116-69 8811

pandaciose Dates 00Detard06869008

Actaches for your review and approval is a Standard

For 115 requesting authority trom the Archivist of the

United States fus the inmudiate disposal uf the Mail

Intercept File.

FYI:

A cony of the SF-I15 will be sent to che

Senate Select Commitice on Intelligençe.

APPROVAY.S:

SAMPLE UN

JOP NO

PAGE OE

DITION TAKEN

tells

WITTiam W. Welis

Deputy Director for Opcrations

Mark I

Paterson

steiner =

Chief, Informazion Systens Analysis Staff

CUNCURRENCES:

8/5472.

8/15/17

Date

"Willian"

7:

Boulde

Hi: 23.92?

Жа, 24,

,1902

*George b. Cary, Jr.

Quy ,4722

Legislacive Counsel

• No buses che Senate a detail wicho tie.

concurience of the Senate Select Committee, This is a

suparale process from abcaining waRs aparoval.

SIb-

mission vi chose forins to NARS is fully consislent with

the Agency's obligation to the SSCl.

This page will not be made available to the National

Archives and Rocords Service or the Senate Select

commirree on Intelligence.

Merised July 1378

Weescribed or General Seroces

BOND 881 CORA101-18.4

---

## Page 22

13-00000

11418

APPRAISAL REPORT ON DIS-OSITION OF RECORDS

SECTION I-ASIMOVED CONQUEROSAL

VALUE 18218-8950-1098.316

TISIONILAL SHE MIND IS ANCIE. DANCISOR LAXLANIA DODO. DU DIA MOODIG 6I INDIVIOURS MEET

GOVERNMENI.

ITEN 1-

LINIAN. ACCOUMPING DEFICE CONCURRENGE

¿ SEE COMMENS OR ATTAGiO LETTER.

SECTION UL- APPROUCO COR PERMALENT RETRIION

ITEMISI

THAT

HE FANCY

ASIROVED FOR FIRMANENT RETENTION,

FOR

REASONS INDICATIO IN SCETIC

OFFCA THESE RFCORDS TO THE NATIONAL ARCHIVES AND RECONDS SERVICE AS SPECIFIED IN MIE

SCHEDSLE."'

TRE AGNiGi WILL

SECTIONI-APPROYCO FOR DISPOSAL ALIEF COMYCRSION TO MICROCOR

DISFOSADLE OLGLUSE THE RETAINEO MICROFORE IS AN ADEQUATE

SECTIONIY - DISPOSAL NOT APPROYED

ISIMISS THAT IS CARES NOT APPROVEO FOR DISPOSAL AY INES ITAT.

NUSFICIENNT

INFOSMIATION IS AVAILADLE TO OCTERMINE THE V'ALUE OF IMESE RECOROS FOR AGENCE RUD LACHINAL PURPOSES.

NUL MESUEMIITEO WITHIN SIX AISIE MERS WILL CONTACT THE GRENCY.

ITE ISI THAT NAS IHAVE MEN WITANDANN AT THE DEQUEST OF THE ICENGY.

SIGNATURE OF APPRAISER,

APPROVAL

11625 c

SECTION VI - APPROVAI/CONCURRENCES

BY DIRECTOR.

BECOPOS DISPOSITION DIVISION

(55 8D0d) THOMAS 18. WADLON

Herbias

Cott.

CURRENCES

DATE

3/03/77

OATE

18/2585%

052/25/0

natc

VALE

SECIION VUI - APPRAISEN'S XELUNMENUALIUN

COSINTS:

---

## Page 23

13-00000

• 1.

=5, 4t.s0d

06098000, 160008.

mACHOLARD Go, 1R06, 0

20, 8410

28-51951

bat 0 to 940 mt 18, 00-8

United Diates Denate

SELCEY CUMMITTEC ON INTELLICENCE

(re 40+ 403-68 0 20 20 880)

WASH:":CrON. O.C. 20510

April 6. 1978

IN REPLY PLEASE

REFER IO Q# ..:!

Admiral Scansfield Iurner

Director of Central Intelligence

Central Intelligence Agency

Washington, D.

20505

Dear Admiral Iurner:

This Coumittee has no objeccion to the implementacion

of che records disposal list (job #NCl-263-77-18) approved

by the Archivist on March 17, 1978.

Sincerely,

Birch Baih

BIIch Bayh

Chairman

t.l....

---

## Page 24

13-00000

SEP. 1.1998

3:5BPM.

NO. 134

P.1

Confidential

Cleastly as Appreartste

SECURE FACSIMILE TRANSMITTAL FORM

CIA SPECIAL COLZECIIONS

DATE:

I September 1998

2000

SENDING SECURE/FAX TELEPHONE NUMBER:

RECEIVING SECURE/FAX TELEPHONE NUMBER:

703-Ã82-10541

703-613 3060l

NUMBER OF PAGES (Including Transmittal Form and Coversheet, I applicable)

4

FROM:

Fred Wickham

(Name / Office / Extension)

SUBJECT:

MFR, 6 Apr 90, Destruction of MHCHAOS and HTLINGUAL Project Files

TO: (ADDRESSEE / ORGANIZATION / OFFICE / EXTENSION)

I. Barry Harrelson OIM X31825-

6.

9.

10.

SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS:

RELEASING OFFICIAL:

Fred Wickham

(PRINTED NAME)

I DARE

(SIGNATURE)

RECEIVING STATION USE ONLY

Please receipt for material by entering time of receipt/signature and transmit back to sending station.

DATE / TIME:

SIGNATURE:

FORM

6-97

4383A (EF)

Classify us Appropriate

Confidentiat

CL 1Y8

CL REASON:

DECL ON:

DAV FROM:

---

## Page 25

13-00000

SEP.

1.1998

3:59PM

A

NO. 134

P.2

CONFIDENTIAL

6 April 1990

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT:

REES:

PARTICIPANTS:

Destruction of MICHAOS and HTLINGUAL Project Files

da Ma 18° Dac 89

ACTION:

OSG/RRE :

DOVIRO: :

MPG/IPB':

C/MPG:

IMS/ IMO:

MPG/PPB :

DC/MPG

C/ IRMB

IRMB/ IMS/IMO

- ASB

DO/IRO

erasen scott!

CORRE

Lou Dube, RRE

:

Identify material for destruction

Recall material

from Recorda Center

c)

d)

Review the material for

destruction

Initiate

destruction

action by keying one

transaction per document

Respond to Reference A, OCC Meno

16, Identity Independent elections silos im 15G

Perform SOFA search to identify MiCHAOS and

HTLINGUAL 111e9

c)

Initiate a SPIN search to identily any existing

MHCHAOS Or HTLINGUAL Information AFTER the initial

processing of material

Document meeting and identify action points

a) Initiate action to identify electronic holdings of

b)

MHCHAOS and HTLINGUAL information

and monitor disposition of MICHAOS and

HTLINGUAL digital information

Update procedures, notices, instructiong. etc.

All information that established MHCHAOS and HTLINGUAL

will be permanent retention.

places.

It was agreed

to run a apa serenato the m defferent

the materlal

CONFIDENTIAL.

1

• 4000

700e

---

## Page 26

13-00000

25-1-1398

4: 00+M

H

NO. 134

P. 3

CONEDONETAL

was destroyed at Records Center to ensure identification of all

and HILINGUAL materials.

the SPIN

any MICHAOS and

HIxINGUAL material will be turned over to are for

seatch is done,

follow up review.

According to the IMS/IMO,

five platter diskpacks on

MHCHAOS

are stored

in TsG,

Room GB0704 OHB.

C/MPG noted that we

need to

research electronic holdings of ISG. both HTLINGUAL and

MACHAOS •

Destruction

review of material for destruction, DrI

transactions will be

the system for each

suggested that, the transactions be done

Individually which

would be

less risky than a blanket deletion.

The XlY symbol for MICHAOS was used for name trace

purposes.

According

to the IMS/IMO.

79 cubic feet of 201 files

are

in this category.

Official 201

files are also in the other

twO MHCHAOS Jobs that haye not

should have blank Elle Content Ilats

been processed identities 202

Any Dis material

IE RRE

files

that

and all the documents are In ALISTAR, RRE must

reconstitute the

destroyed and J

and Xx should be deactivated.

should be updated.

order of Dastruction

HTLINGUAL material can be started on immediately

TILINGUAL PrOdUCELOn

E1les

are 1 112 cuble feet which will

be

pulled

Eirst.

The bulk of HILINGUAL material - 348 cubic feet

can be

destroyed immediately without review.

The remaining 50°

axe in

five

or str categories and needs to be revleved. 8.g..

single microfilm copies stored in conserva tiles.

IRMB WiIl turn over the MICHAOS file Inventory to

When material

searched, RRE

will notify IPB

will search SOFA to identify files.

should formally

Pursuant to Reterence A OcC memorandum.

comply with

any outstanding FOIA or Privacy Act requests relating to

MHCHAOS oF HTLINGUAL that should not be destroyed.

---

## Page 27

13-00000

1. 1998

4:01PM

A

1d stas

NO. 134 P.4

21 June 2981

MEMORANDUM FOR:

FROM:

SUBJECT:

Mr.

William J.

Allardi

Associate General Counsel

DO/Information

Review OfFicer

DEStrUCTiOn of MICHAOS and HTLINGUAL Records

1.

With

regards to the MHCHAOS records, it is my under-

standing

that

a Protective

Order was placed

on all MHCHAOS

files

in June

1976 due to

ltiration.

due southed that warm ten, he alton vy presenting

plaintife in the

case had recently narrowed the class action

definition

to include only

those

individuals cited in the case

as plaintiffs.

was your belief

amended to

MICHAOS recora ernie destruction of all other sex files

that the protective order could

the

Please

undertake

whatever action

is te

quired

soon as

possible

so that the DO may destroy records under

in amended protective order.

procede

In furpher di seussion

with

the

destruction

records.

Attached

please find five copies of Form 141, oach portiining to a separace

phase of the HILINGUAL file system.

Please

include

your con

-CurIenCe

with

the destruction of these files by signing in block 12

on 111

coptes.

+ no

Attachment;

a/5

WARNING NOTICE

- Intelligence

Sources

and Methods

Involved

ADMINISTRATIVE = INTERNAL US:

ONLY

when

separated from

attachments

che

RENTVATIVE CL BY 01820/

REVW ON Jun

DERIVED FROM D9C-13

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 28

13-00000

file cy

CLA SPECZAL COLLECTIONS

RELEASE IN FULL

2000

12 September 1998

MEMORANDUM FOR: Laura Denk

Executive Director, ARRB

FROM:

J. Barry Harrelson

JFK Project Officer, HRP/OIM

SUBJECT:

CIA-IR-3, Full Computer Search for List of

Documents in HTLINGUAL File

1. This is in response to referent request.

2.

Searches were made for information responsive to

the request and materials were provided for examination by

ARRB staff.

From that examination, staff members selected

number of documents to be included within the JFK

Collection.

Those documents have now been included within

the JFK Collection and are being processed for release to

NARA.

3. This concludes the Agency's action on this request.

If you have any question, please

advise.

san

I jam

J. Barry Harrels

---

## Page 29

13-00000

MEMORANDUM

CIA SEBOZAT COLLECTIONS

ZELBASE IN FULL

2000

September 19, 1998

To:

Laura Denk

Executive Director

CC:

From:

Bob Skwirot

CIA Team Leader

Michelle Combs Michelle Conta

Associate Director for Research and Review

Subject: CIA-IR-03 HTLINGUAL Records

The Review Board's Informal Request for Additional Records and Information asked

the CIA to locate any extant records from the HTLINGUAL mail cover and mail

opening project. Most of the HTLINGUAL files held by the Directorate of Operations

were destroyed in 1990 at the order of the CIA's Office of the General Counsel. A

memorandum for the record found in volume seven of Lee Harvey Oswald's Office of

Security file states that the Office of Security destroyed its SRPOINTER/HTLINGUAL

files in April 1994 in accordance with guidelines set forth in the Record's control

schedule and the Office of General Counsel.

The Review Board staff examined an index, provided by the CIA, to the remaining

HTLINGUAL records and marked folders for closer review. The Review Board staff

reviewed the HTLINGUAL project files for 1955-1990. These project files consist of

monthly statistical reports and administrative records. The more recent documents in

the files pertain to law suits, court orders, or destruction records. These files were not

designated as assassination records. The extant HTLINGUAL records for Lee Harvey

Oswald and several project "soft" or working files are included in the CIA sequestered

collection and have been processed as a part of that collection for inclusion in the JFK

Collection at the National Archives. Additional HTLINGUAL documents were located

in the archived files of the Deputy Director for Plans. Any documents relevant to the

assassination were designated assassination records and will be processed for inclusion

in the JFK Collection at the National Archives.

e: \combs \cia-ir03.wpd

File 4.20.1 and 4.20.4

•captured

---

