# 104-10176-10075

## Page 1

104-10176-10075

Date: 07/11/01

Page:

1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER

RECORD SERIES

: JFK

C04-10276-20075

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

80T01357A

DOCUMENT

INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR

CIA

FROM

TO :

TITLE : 201 FILE OF PROTECTABLE SOURCE.

DATE

: 00/00/

PAGES

: 152

SUBJECTS

: JFK DOCUMENT

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION

: SECRET

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: POSTPONED IN FULL

: 05/22/98

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS : JFK64-12:F5 1998.05.22.10:14: 03: 840082: RELEASE DELAYED

UNTIL DEATH OF SUBJECT.

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

---

## Page 2

SECRET

HRG Record Print

ID:

File Title:

Job Num:

Location:

BoX Num:

Vol/Folder:

Title:

Printed on: 7/11/2001

1998.05.22.10:14:03:840082

JFK

80T01357A

HRG

JFK64-12

F5

201 FILE

OF PROTECTABLE SOURCE.

Title Res:

Date of Document:

Status:

From:

From Res:

TO:

To Res:

Pages:

Orig. Classification:

Originator:

Last Reviewer:

Review Date:

Exemptions:

Medium:

Last Inputter:

NARA Comments:

Agency Comments:

Release:

Release Date:

Doc Num:

Keywords:

Duplicate Document Of:

N

0/0/0

DIF

152

CIA

1A

1B 1C

3

4

5

PAPER

ramsayr

RELEASE DELAYED UNTIL DEATH OF SUBJECT.

PER ARRB DECISION OF 13 MAY. AGENCY REQUIRED TO

DETERMINE STATUS ANNUALLY.

201-329-609

LITAMIL-9

Res:

Res:

RESPONSE

APPEAL DATE

DECISION

COMPONENT DATE TASKED

Sent to NARA:

Agency Name:

Agency Number:

Disk Number:

Control Number

Component Review Info

DATE REVIEWED

Y

CIA

104

10176

10075

SECRET

1998.05.22.10:14:03: 840082

---

## Page 3

27 April 1957

261 g

329509

dep

SECRET

APPROVAL WORK RECORD

0y ene

ALBErU-SOUto, LITE

ARJATIONS

I 55.18

DATE CHIS. BED.

18 April 1953

50:279039

CRYPTONYM

1-ITA011-9

DATE OF EIRTH

1915

CASE GEFICER

gre F. Zazar-z

FSELDONTM

REMARKS

PLACE OF FIRTH

DIVISION

Ordedo, Spain

WH/1/M1

INITIALS

CATE

EXTENSION

4157

COMMENTS

wul.

8 MAY 1967

p.o.A.

Records or nos torts Checked In

CI/PLA, Cuto: 211 April 1967

Besults:

O.A.

wittle

7 FEB 1968

Case

Carcelid

CASE

CANCELLED

lios

26 J2: 1968

PRO!

BIO

PRO 11

22 FE8 :959

1 2 1=2 963

174318

GREEN

LIST

TRACES

Liste

NTII

DEROG. INP II CI/CA

8 MAY 1967

CPS & DIV

TRACES

DEFOG. INFO IN CI/OA

des cuo section

FIELD

DEROG. DIFO IN CI/OA

one the Big dy snaye?

INDICES

XX

FB1

INDICES

FBI CORD.

REQUESTED

FBI CORD.

COMPLETEO

#RITTEN

5.0

LAVESTIGATION

TECHNICAL

INTERRCSATION

REPORT

CCS/Ne

NOTIFIED

CCS/NC

COMPLETEO

FCAu

4-83

126

---

## Page 4

offin of Samit, Depent

liaiion ma

terial

1561

SVEST EAT 9

INTERERATION

REPERT

Cos

---

## Page 5

SECRET

FOR POA

1358 ce

FOR

INSTRUCTION SHEET®

FERREDITE

LAMELLA

SUla

DATE

329609

¡DICES

5#0

AJEA:

COECK

37

ISSUE OPERATIDAAL AFPROVAL

ISSUE PROVISICAAL OFIRATIONAL APPROVAL

EXTENDED POA FOR

DATS UNTIL

RE INSTATE PEA FOR

DATS UNTIL

& CRUARE

SECURITY OFFICE

MINCEL FER EINISIDA MENO DATED

th'o notice

to Division)

31 am. 1972

CANCEL PER CI/GA

(Reason checked below, o

or see senarks)

REQUEST IP TRACES (INCI. COMINT)

REQUEST OPERATICHAL AND

DIVISION TRACES (IncI. COMINT)

REQUEST FIELD TRACES.

REQUEST

REQUEST W-I- COMINT TRACE FESULTS

REQUEST

RESULTS

IATEFRSEATISN

TECHNICAL

FR09

REVIER SECURITY OFFICE REFIET AT CI/DA

DENIES AT CI/CA

SESHEDL REPORT

CHE MOTICE TO DIVISION

TICKLE

NOTICE

FERIT

SECOND

SAD ROTICE TO DIVISICA

FLEASE SUOMIT PEO 1I.

MAS BEEN INDICATED, POR BILL BE ALTOMATICALLY CANCELLED.

"FAILURE TO SLENIT FRO 8!

AS REQUIRED UNDER CSI NO, 10-5 OR TO BADICATE AMY FURTHER INTEREST

FOR

THE OFZAATIOUAL LSE OF SUBJECT..

INTEREST

OSTAININE AHROYAL

1858 EC

CANCELLED

COPY TO SEOGRITY

*6+* 707

9-78

0B5088+8

PX&Bt8

SECRET

E2.

INPOET

CASINO IN, 22-125

---

## Page 6

SECRET

24 August 1972

MEMORANDUM FOR: CI/OA

ATTENTION

:

SUBJECT

: LITAMIL-7 (201-329609)

:.

==-ine at fastina filee

that

it was motor

LITAMIL-T'S Operational Approval, which was granted

on 7 February 1968, is still active.

This is to advise

you that Mexico City Station terminated contact with

LITAMIL-7 in 1970.

Attached herewith is a copy of a Memorardum for

the Record regarding Subject and the Agent Termination

Report.

3. Please retire Subject's CI/OA File.

Chief, Wh

Attachment: herewith

E2 IMPDET

CL BY:

NN- SISM

SECRET

---

## Page 7

SECRET

22 August 1972

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: LITAMIIL-7

ccording to Gereld D. FAHLANGER, LITAMIL-7, who

ITANIL-3 in approximately 1966-0%.

Alnuugis Juajaco

was rever a very producute asset.

provide information on

activities of the installation ard individuals working therein.

approximately 1569-10, Stored was retired by the PBRUMAN Embassy,

ending her previous usciulness

of access to the embassy, Sto did contirue to maintain contact with

the personnel. including the ambassador.

maintained contact with ber through LITASIIL-3. However, this too

was not very productive because she felt she had been treated fairly

upon retirement, and felt a certain degree of loyaly to them.

was somewhat incongruous. since she did not feel such loyalty when

she was working in the emoassy.

2 Subject met FAHLINGER, as

imately sis times in

home. The last time she was told that in

retirement, which resulted in the less of access to the

embassy, our relations mitr

W wouid be terminated. However, if

Aureestablisted contaci with the personnel,

or was recalled to work

part or full time, we would, of course, consider contact again. This,

of course, never happered.

3. While Subject was not paid a regular salary,

did receive

spot payments for the information

submitted.

also received

occasional small gifts at Christmas time and oz ber birthday.

The

E2, IMPDET. IN-SISM

CL BY:

SECRET

---

## Page 8

SECRET

= 2

termination was amicable, and Subject agreed to notify LITAMIL-3

If she had any information of value to repart.

4. Attached is the Agent Termination Report on Subject.

WH/1/1A

SECRET

---

## Page 9

SECRET

Attachment to

15 August 1972

1.

3.

4.

5.

Agent Termination Report

AGENT CRYPTONYMI:

PROJECT IDENTIFICATION:

AGENT RECRUITED BY:

CAPACITY IN WHICH AGENT

SERVED:

RATE OF PAY:

7.

8.

10.

OTHER COMNITMENTS:

AGENT DISVISSED BY:

SECURITY RISKS:

IS AGENT RECOMMENDED

FOR RE-USE:

REASON FOR AND MANER

OF DISMISSAL:

LITAMIL-Y

LITAMIL

LITAMIL-3

Penetration of the PBRUSEN

Embassv in Mexico Citr

Spot payments based on

information she submitted.

Average was approxinzely

$20.00 Ü.5. per moniie

None

Cerald D. FAHLANGER

None

No

11.

LETTER OF TERMINATION

SIGNED:

She retired from..

position

in the embasst.

Terziation

by FAHLANGER was dore at a

meeting with her.

No.

was not witting of her

role for LNBUZZ, and tas not

receiving a specitic mowhly

salary.

E2, IMPDET,

WN-SISM

CL. BY:

SECRET

---

## Page 10

MESSAGE TES

TOTAL CORES:

SECRET

/sas

EXT:

6954/9041

BATE

25 Narch 1968

CADLE SICLITANLAT DIESEMIMATICN

025 r

CONF:

шн х

$80 HENS

В но жох

BREFOS

RiD COrT

PILE

I WH/COET, EURE,

(ra=xs)

СІСВА, саз, (053

SECRET:

CITE DRECTOR

35712

TO

TINNEDIATE VEXICO CITY JAWAVE

INFO:

TYPIC

1-3294097

REFS:

A.

(IN 76477)*

67

B.

JUWAVE

C. DIRECTOR 85178, 20 MARCH 67 ***

1. REQUEST MEXICO CITY TRY DETERMINE WHERE MACIQUES

STAYING

PRIOR HIS DEPARTURE REF A AND NOTIFY JAWAVE. ALSO PLEASE

PROVIDE

VIDABLE PRETEXT TO COVER WIFE'S CALL TO PROTECT SHABOVE SOURCE.

C./0133/-

LITAVIL-9, REPORTED IN REE C THAT MACIQUES HOULD PROPSELY

BE WILL.TNG

COOPERATE WITH LIHARP IF APPROACHED. CAN LITAMIL-9 OBTAIN CURRENT

2.

2. POR JAVE AT CIOUS BEEN RESIDING MEAN

FLORIDA

PER RET B SUGGEST SHE BE CONTACTED AND DETERIME IF SHE ABLE

TELEPHONE MACIQUES MEXICO CITY ASKING HE MEET WITH HERE THERE ON HIS

RETERS FROM MONTREAL.

FILE 8SB

(ріся),

7

END OF MESSIGE

FELLASTRO OPTIONA

CONTINUED

COOUAMARNG ORMERRI

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

COPINa

---

## Page 11

PONTINE ANO/CRANIA 1. 1424

case:

2941T:

#*T:

CAEL LECISTARLAT BIEELIMATION

81.

MOSAL COMES

SECRET

FETURN 1S.

BEANEM

#HE BID

no copy

(tiess cation)

SECRET

Trento and sunre filed)

Г

tal. 20.

CITE DEFECTOR

85742

7

7

PAGE TVO

#H COMMENT:

*Abraham HACIQUES Maciques departing Mexico

City 26 March

for Montreal

+7EHUES

***LITAMIL-9 BEiNg bolieses MACIQUES willing cooperate

if contacted.

**** LITAHIL-9 willing provide assessmont of MACIQUES 11

latter returns Cuba.

C/H/COO/OPS

C/B/BC/C

CI/OPS

Kin

gra1:)

(by phone)

(by phone)

WILLIAM B.

C/AHD

C/NII/.1

DRASINO OFFICTI

SECRET

dowagding

REPROM ICTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITED.

AUTHINTICATNO

---

## Page 12

SECRET

MEMORAN DUM+ FOR:

Chief, ::

Mat to loose

Operational Approval is hereby granted

in

the case

of

for the purpose

specified in you request

dated.

This Approval is based upon eraluation of information arailable so this

Office, and is granted under autbority cortained in CSI and CSI-T 10-5.

CI/OPERATIONA: APPROVAL AND SUPPORT DIVISION

Date:.? "bruary

SECRET

1009 124

##B

---

## Page 13

SECRET

MEMORANDUM FOR:

SUBJECT

Deputy Director of Security

(Investigations and Support)

C*

SOM

DATE:

321

ATTACHMETTS (IF ANY): :

Far, rar: 1

CHIEF, CI/CA

FORM 2413

2. 01

SECRET

{401

---

## Page 14

SECRET

GATE

SET UP

6OP POA

SET UP

FOR DA

INSTRUCTION SHEET

EXPEDITE

INDICES

1040:

INCUIRY

iTE

COVERT @ AARE

CHECK

I Fue 1063

EXPEDITE FBI

¡ADICES

ORSD

Cast No. 1:1.

329659

DATE

USE

ISSUE OPERATIONAL AFFROVAL

ISSUE PROVISIONAL OPERATIONAL AAPROYAL

REINSTATE POA FOR

DAYS UNTId

FORMARD ATTACHMENT TO DIVISION

A FORRARO tO

ATTACMHERT

CAXCEL FEE.

DIVISION MEMO DATED

(No notice

to Derision)

see remarte)

REQUEST RI TRACES

ACQUEST OPCRATIONAL AND DIVISION TRACES

•EQUEST FIELD TRACES

REQUEST

REQUEST GREEN LIST

REQUEST RESULTS FA/D DOSSIER REVIIA

REVIEN FIO COLLATEDAL INFORMATILS

REQUEST RESULTS TECHNICAL

IRTERROGATION FACE

DIVISION

REYSER SECURITY OFFICE REPORT AT CA/OA

REVIEW SECURITY OFFICE CONCURRENT MEMO AT CI/OA

REVIEW AT CI/OA

ICFLUTTAR REPORT

REQUEST REVIEN OF ATTACHED NEFERINCE.

ADVISE CI/DA OF NATURE AND

SICHIFICANCE

vane it. 1

TICKLE

NOTICE

ORSO NOTICE TO DIVISION

4042AH.924

PLEASE

SUBMIT

NAS

BEEM INDICATED, POA WILL #E AUTOMATICALLY CANCELLIO.

PRO 18.

BE, MISMIN DO DAYS. NO FURTMIR

INVEREST IN SUBJECT

AS #EQUIRED UNDER CSI NO, PO-S OR TO INDICATE ARY FURTHER INTEREST N

OBTAINING APPROVAL

FOR THE OFERAPIONAL USE OF

RIMAGES

To:k'Hle

Taứt

inst

*** 707

SECRET

Andra!

1811

---

## Page 15

UNELASSIFIED.

ITERNAL

USE ONLY

• COM.IDENTIAL

ROUTING AND RECORD SHLET

L

SECRET

SUUECT, (Optianat

LILIVII-O

FROW

WH/1/M-xico/

Pafaase

foid inoficos designaioa, roon pftbea, ond

bunding)

WH.

DATE

REANEO

6 7.11.

PORWANDED

RITENSION

4157

OFFICER'S

INITLALS

DAJE

6 Fet 58

COMMENTS (Nurber nach comment to shom trom itçe

ts whara

Deor a line rocrone cira

ofter soch cormone

2.

329609

DCkH/1

cốt

CI/0A

10.

18.

12.

14

13.

PORM

#-«*

610 '%L RoN

MUS

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

IMTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIEO

---

## Page 16

SECRET

6 pebruary 1958

MEMORANDUM FOR:

ATTENTION:

SUBJECT:

CI/OA

LITAMIL, - 9

201-329509

Attached are two copies of a PR& Part I on Subject and a

copy of the PRE Part II. An Operationai Approval is reguested.

chief, wH/1

Attachments:

PRE I

- 2 cys

PR& II - 1 cy

SECRET

---

## Page 17

PERSONAL RECCRO QUESTIONNAIRE

FART | - BIOGRAPHICAL INFORKATION

PRO PO.

INSTPUCTIONS:

I SECTICH

I. NAME (FIERR)

question.

is not

Atsari biend

applicable, prito "NaM

DISPATCH NO.

aditronal apaci

is need+

GEMERAL PERSONAL AND PHYSICAL DATA

(Last)

(N00)

2- EAGE

IN MATIVE

"RADIAGE OR SCRIPT

S. NAME AT BIRTH (16' diTTerent then Tica 1.)

'ALIASES, NICANAMES.

'TELECODES, LEGAL CHANGE IN NAME (StalE tiDE,

season for and place of usas

5- DATE OF BIRTH

PERSONAL MABITS (LIQUOr

PLACE OF BIRTH

FATABOUTS)

8. COURT

свІв, спагдей, роздаВаеша»•

6÷ 20/2

D. ASE

DESCRIPTION (Use American standarda

C. APPARENT AGE

HEIGHT

*. HEIGHT

anurements, if possible)

IF. COMPLEZION

1. COECR OF MAIN

l• COLOR OF EYES

¿• TEETH

I SCARS AND MARKS OR ETHER

DISTIRCUSIHING FEATURES

dace

k. BUILD

[3- FACE (Stape)

I. POSTURE

A - SEMERAL APPEARANCE

•- PROMINENT FEATURES

•. OTMER IDLATIFYINE FEATURES.

ATTACH

SAMPLES OF

SIGYATCHE AND MANDERITING:

4L SO DAYED PHOT GRAPH AND FINGERPRINTS.

1050

OSFAINAALE

64=201

---

## Page 18

SECTICE 18

10. PRESENT CITIESSIO

Z- #RESENT RESIDENCE (IndICAlE

CITIZEASHIP

1S. MATIGADLITY AY BIRTH MS ANY SUBSEQUER CITIZENSHiPS (IS differcel the SIr 10.0

as Amar.

NATURALIZEE

CITIZEN.

GivE NAME.

DATE.

LITO ANO NUMBER DE CERTIFICATE GRANTED

TRAVEL

OUTSITE

COUNTRY OF PRESENT MESIDENCE (CINAISiES,

dates and purpores)

SECTIOR 11!

&- PRESENT OCCUPA:ICS

OCCUPAT =4 k

17. TITLE

AND FIRANCIAL CATA

I#- FIRANCIAL STATUS (EArningS.

bank deposits,

serstities and property)

SALARY (Per poss,

I SECTICI

10. MEMBERSHIP IA FELIGIOUS ORGANIZATIONS

ZI- PRESENT AND PAST MEMBERSHIP 1$ PROFESSIONAL ANI SOCIAL URGANIZATIONSS POLITICAL AFFILIATIONS

SECTICH V

HAME AND LOCATIGN OF SCHOOL

ERUCATIONAL CATA

SCHOOLS

BANE OF COURSE

AFTERÕE

ри44

DE GRIE

RECI-SEL

LANGUAGES AND DIALECTS

LANGUAGE

COUPETENCE

REAS

Do few

ench. longuade

possess

say.

SPEAR

TES

TES

TES

INSKRITING

ves

---

## Page 19

SECTION VI

28.

TIEN DATES.

SPECIAL QUALIFICATICAS AND INTERESTS

DETAILS INCLUDING TITLES DE BOGAS DE ARTICLES, ALSO NAMES OF FULISHERS AND PUBLICA

23. SPECIAL SKILLS.

MORRIES SUCH AS RADID.

PASTOGRAENT, ETC.

SECTICAN WIN

COUNTRY

MILITARY SERVICE

Lid 17

RANK

IDERISFVING COUNTRY. BADICATE

PRISOVER.

SERVICE

сантикей. РегоТіш.

AND MIT II SCHANCES.

GIVE DETAILS INTAR

SECTION VIlI

MPLOTIENT MISTERY

NICATE CHPOKOLOCICAL HISTORY OF EMPLOTWENT LISTING LAST POSITION FIRST. INCLUDE AVY DOVERNIEVT EMPLOYME

DATES (FEGA-TO/3- EMPLOYER

IC. ADURESS

=:

TYPE OF

HOKE

C:1:1C

SALART OR EARHINES

INCLUSIVE DATES (ITOR-TO)D. EMPLOYER

f. HIASON FOR LEAVINE

L. ADIRESS

27.

w13s CU03

TYPE OF WORK

card

SO INCLUSIVE

DATES (FrOS-To

SALARY OF E

DE LEAVING

. 9

EMPLOTER

wOma

3AL ARY

REда?

"*CLUSIVE DATES CETOR-TO

LOVER

C- ADDRESS

TIFE OF. ФОНА

SALARY ON

PERSON FOR LEAVINE

LATES (FrOR-TOl

CAPLOYER

C- ADDRESS

SALARY ON EARHINES

REASON FOR LEAVING

---

## Page 20

SECTION IX

MARITAL STATUS

SIBILE

MARRIED

SEPARATED

38-STATE DATE, PLACE AND REASOR FOR ALL SEPARATISAS, DINGACES CE ASRLAMENTS

OR

HUSBAND:

EF

TUS RAVE BEEN MARRIED MORE THAN LATE.

" PINE DATA RECUIRIO

BELOR FOR ALL FREVIOUS DEINGSASSURMENTS, USE SHEET FOR FORMER MITE OR MUSBAN

SPOUSE

(Firse)

(maddley

(Last)

0F

MARRIAGE

IS, PLICE OF MARRIAGE

35. DATE

TEA INI

37. PLATE OF BIRTH

-ADID%ALIYY AT BIRTH

35. EUSSESNENT CATIZENSHIPS

10-

PRESENT RESIDENCE (LaST residenCE, TaeCeaseS)

, SECTIOW

CHILGREN

SEX

FULL NAME

TEAR

OF

8: a tel

PLACE OF BIRTH

SATIONALITY AT BIRTH"

"FURSEQUENT EITIZENSHIPS

ANY CHILD (Identily

child and dire his.

SECTION

42. YEAR OF BIATH

FATHER

JA3. #LACE OF BIRTH

MATIOMALITY AT

PRESENT RESIDENCE

SECTION XI!

1B. FULL NAME

SUBSEQUENT CIT

BATIORALITY AT BIRTH

232150

---

## Page 21

SECTICN AILI

BROTHERS AND SISTERS

FUiL &ADE

Mer BIATM

PLACE OT GIET

HATSONALITY AT#ATH"

mesisisini

INSM GO SISTER (IGENIITY BOORNER. OS

RELATIVES, ACCUAINTARCES AND CONTACTS

EN ДОРЦТ ЕТ

Bna85

cily and number

HaCATTOIP QF

ALL. PER 50%S

ENOwY TO dE CORUECTED

MNT :NTELREIOICE

SECTIOU

PERSOMAL

ASSOCIATIONS

IBDIVIDUALS OR SPOUFS

SECTION AVE

MISCELLAMEOUS

SIGHATURE

---

## Page 22

No.

SECRET

PRO NO.

PERSONAL RECORD QUESTIONNAIRE

PART 1I - OPERATIONAL INFORMATION

DISPATCH 13..

НУМА-33865

INSTRUCTIONS 10 CASE OFFICER

оса. "11

or liliad sa by

olliese or approprialo authority on the bours of lhe beat asailable en

an leda requenter furaintes

• subpert's bandoritine, il possiblas and poo (3) com

no sue faj copies.

icable orite "MA." Il additlonel snace secadend

CHEFTONTI

LITAVIL9

SECTICK I

LADICATE NON, WHEN. THERE.

CONTACT AND

DEVZLOPMENT

THY, AND BY MADA SUBJEET DAS FIAST CONTACTED DA DIVELODRO.

2122=

on 18 July 1962 by LITAMIL-3.

11rse Case Ulticer, was introduced tó Subject

INDICATE

HE RADLING.

HETMEN SUBJEI: COUGE BE TUANCO

IF SO. INDICATE TO SON.

QUICHET AND

SECURE MANNER TO ANY RESPSNBIRE CASE OFFICES NEE

Subject could be turned over to any responsible Case Officer,

particularly one with a

speaking knowledge of Spanish. Subject

also speaks good

French

and poor English.

LIST OTHER CASE

BEEN

00O MATE HAROLED SUBJECT ON

MADH ME ANONS OR HAS AROSH. GIVE BANES BY SHICH

THEY MATE

Subject knew Clyde K. SHRYOCK by true name.

The next Case Officer,

Lawrence F. BARKER, took over in June 1963.

Subject was turned

over to his present Case Officer, Raysond A. FRADYER, following

his return fron PBRUMEN in the

•_1911 Of 1968.

1050a

SECRET

---

## Page 23

SECRET

AND CONTROL

SECTICA

MOTIVATI:

ESTIMATE SUBJECT-S ESTIMATION, (Be desailed, if posseble este

evidence. Do not

connet duch as

subject is airr sotivated bord PBRRI and the leet.

inti-conunist did anti-AMtaug.

2e

is

INDICATE DHAT CONTROL: 15 ANY. ERISTS QUER THE SUBJECT. (88 NO CORITOS

SECTION 111

COVER

1. COVER USEO BY SUBJECT AND CASE DEFICER IN THEIR MEETINGS.

iw ject and his Case Officer neet as acoraintances:

TOT. MIS IMFORHATION AND IN CONTACTIDI HIS INFORMANTS.

as a former sember of HIRINg, scill has contacts in the

erica.

¡ARICATE

SERVICE FOR DUICH SUEJECT THINKS ME (Will WOrk! (IS WorkaTe).

rich a coLix intelligene service.

SECTION IV

INTELLIGENCE CORNECTIONS AND TRAINING

EXPLAIN SUBJECT•S UNC, PAST OR PRESENT COMMECTIDN DITH ANY OTHER INTELLIGENCE SEENICE.

INDICATE THE EXTES"

SUEN CONNECTIOR

15 AROON OVERTLY.

subject is sot known to have any contact with any other

intelligence

service.

friends) DuO KADa DE SuRiECT'S PRESENT ISTELLIGESCE ACTIVITIES.

LIT.MIL-3 robably suspects

LITANIL-g is still engaged in

intellirence

activities.

EXPLAIM ANY TRAINIAS SUBJECT HAS NBO IN CLANDESTITE OPERATIONS.

subject bas not had any formal training in clandestine operationg

but he is cunning, intelligent, and has an aptitude for the work.

SECTION V

COLLABORATION POTENTIA

OTHER FOREIGN PODIA SUBURGI MOULO BE WIS! LIKELY YO CGLIASURATE MITN BILALSE DE MAS IDEOLOGT DA DAI-

ASSOCIATIONS.

ERPLAIN.

subject would coliaborate with an anti-Communist Cuban regine if

it should come to power.

SECRET

---

## Page 24

• " SECRET

SECTION

OPERATICHAL USE - CENTRET

SUB ECS"MAS BEES

REAP 1 0M

ME MAS FURNISHED.

USED ZA CONTACTES BEFORE, IADICATE ACTIVITY tO ENIÇ NE GAS LASAGES ANO

THE TYPE OF 1963A-

subject has beca an

actait

asset

of the lanice City station since

1702.

First Le

"lovines

information

wali:; after his return

to vexico in late

1966 25

it

nrivate citizes

still provided sone

info on Lill'i personnel and

on the paovai co tunity in lexico.

INDICATE HOE ANO FRIS ENDS SUBJECT GETAILE INFORMATION.

Iron mombers of maIse and the PoRuNeY coumity.

Riso fron old

friends

aud ecquaintances living in toxico or

3. INDICATE #HAT HAS BEEN TOLO SUBJECT AS TO THE DISPOSITIDN DE ISFORMATIDA ME SURRISHES.

subject knows that his isformation zoes to z2x2TAL.

DETAiL SUBJECT'S PROPOSED TO OR CA PIPE USE OR DUTIES.

Subject's current use is

pass on any inforuition which cores ic

attenting which

HE LO UCCASIONALLY

for any info ne can provide on PEPUiDERs or their contacts

Etation thinks he

na? know or have kacan.

is no current

active direccion of his activities, ind his -fulness is at present

close to nar tinal.

DETAIL SUBJECTOS PROPOSED PA-FA TYPE USE OR DUTIES.

NA

SECTION VIS

PROPOSES LIAISON OR OPERATICHAL ACTIVITY

DETAIL SUBJECT'S PROROSES LIAISON TYPE COSTAGE OR SPERATIESS: ESE:

A, THERE SUBJECT IS AS OFFICIAL NEMBER OF A FOREID GOVERNMENT:

NA

•. PHERE SUBJECT IS AS

OFFICIAL

MEMBER OF AN DOYONE AGENCY:

NA

SECTION VITI

AGENCY RELATIONSHIP WITH SUBJECT

RELATIONSHIP BITH SUBJECT, I.E.

PERSORGEL ANOEN TO SUJECT.

TRAIALE, OPPOJITE BURGEN: DENUIRATIO%.

IF ARTS AGENCY

is no longer paid any

salary. He aust be considered an

operational contact.

In addition

his three case officers,

AndresS. PARTIRS

Edward D. ATA-kly under assured

SECRET

---

## Page 25

ANDiRATE SPECIAL

ABILITIES

FOR SHER OPERATISA

SECRET

JUALIFICATIONS FOR GTHER OFEPATICAS

IS. DA JUALIFICATIDNS POSSESSED EY SUDAE"

OMICA COLLO CONCENDAR DE OF MALLE

COMMITMENTS

IF

IS PROPOSED TO PAY

CORASJITIES.

S.EJECS A DEGULAR SALARY.

SUBSIDY OR STREA MEINOD, SPECIFY

AND GIFE DETAILS.

INDICATE THE ALENLY ENDURE, lE PATMINE TO SE MISE IN EXCHANGE.

Tooi00t is

Lot

**6, 29 BOMISES

familg.)

DIMERUISE POS COVERED HEREIN, MADE TO SUBJICT. (LEMBle:

couriteats

"TOMISES

neve

beed

Сат. ТелеВед! ФАСИДіНи

MODICATE

CE AND SECURITY

THE FILLO ADENCIES AND FIELO FILES BITA PNICA SUBJECT'S NAWE MAS DEEN CHECKED AND THE RESULTS.

coction

and with tiles.

o derocatory artocration.

HADICATE ATMER ENGESTIGATIGE

MERSUMES TAREN TO VERIFY BIOGRAPMICAL INFIFHATIDN FURSISHED BY SUBJECT.

PROVAL

EvALUATE

• Ke

WHETHER

4 4 . слохтоісі схржддіолі

SUBJECT'S USE MAS DEEM PREVIOUSLY

AFFAGGAL UN OFERATION Ã.

OBTAINEO.

2.5

1297.06

8. WAIE APPROFAL

14:7

RELBABILITY RAD SECURITY, CITING EVIDENCE MARRE POSSIBLE.

15 01 3i66

noral Character,

sincere,

schiable, ictelligont,

and very

1ar1l?

Lackercuad.

security

Conscious.

hawy

TIDAAL SECURITY MIESPSINT.

O# IAJISCRETIDA IN SMICH SUBJECE MAY HAVE BEER INDOLDES MMICH MUST BE EVALUATED FROM A

4ane

bei

jeved to

he security

MCan

is knoxe

СІ МОНСО СіГу 3450;

Eder

sic Dot

risks

SECTICE AII

USE

DS LIQUCA, DRUGS: SANDING, PARAMOURS.

SUBJECT'S PERSONAL MADITS

In"gect drinss nodcrately.

de 1s not krere to bare any flagraat

1100F.

SECRET

---

## Page 26

SECTION RIES

SECRET®

APSCATICAR INTERESTS

FADICATE SURECIOS HOBBIES LA TOTESIST IS SPORTS, MUSIC. ETC.

is

interested la music, literature, and arti

SECTION AIN

EURJECE 1s

GER ER AL

ABILITIES AND OTHER CHARACTERISTICS, ARE SUCH AS ME COULO PASS

EXPLAIN.

АЗА БАТІНЕ

but

because ot his Cuban accont

Cuban.

TEAMCATE

WHETHER FRFGRUATICN

IN FRE

PARTS I AAD 11 MAS OBTAINED SY BESEARCH, CLANDESTINE ASSESSMENT, FILES.

CORRESPORSENCE OR

OTHER MEANS.

Interration

1: 722 Parts I and Il was obtained through reseatch,

f1l€5,

agents, and direct questioning.

WE PETE TARO. "DUPER) ACTION IS REQUIRED, IF ANO BMEN FERMINATION OF SUBJECT IS EFFECTED. PLEASE EXPLAIN.

(Also

No probleas die envisaged when Subject say de terninated.

SECTICH XV

MERGENCT CONDITIONS RECCATACT AKRANGEMENTS

GITE FULL DETAILS

MAKING COSTACT USEY

1.E. RECOGNITION SIGAALS, SIN: #NERE COULO CONTACT BE MADE:

WHAT BORA FIDES COULD IRFIFIDUAS

subject could be contacted by phone (his number is

1n the Mexico

City peone book) using

the name &i che

of the #OFIRl officers he

bas scen in contact with as boze fides.

SECTION XYI

MISCELLANEOUS OPERATICHAL CATA AND REMARKS

DATE

APPROPEIATE SENIOR OFFICER

SECRET

---

## Page 27

SECRET

CANCELLATION TO DIVISION

DATE

VEMORAIIDUM FOR:

ATTENTION

201

The file on

and closed in CI/OA er= the following reason:

_Is carcelled

Fallure to sucuit PRQ-II as required under CSI No. 10-5 or to

indicate any further interest

in obtaining approval for the operational use

Prior to any future use of Subject, it will be necessary to furnish

& sew approval reques: (Form #T72) to CI/OA.

CETEE, CI/OPERATIONAI, APPROVAI AND SUPPORT DIVISION

FORM

$-#$

691a

SECRET

metacost trama.

auropresting and

€**

---

## Page 28

SECPET

SET UP

FOR

INSTRUCTION SHEET

ENRECITE

INDICES

SPECIAL

PAOUIET

DATE

329609

DATE

COBERT NAME

CHECK

4X51984 77

INDICES

AREA:

ORSD

ISE

ISSUE

DPERATIORAL

ISSUE PESVISIONAL OPEFATIONAL APPROVAL

LATENE FOR FOR

DAYS UNTIL

AEINSTATE POA FOR

GAYS LATeL

FORMAPE ATTACHMENT TO DIVISION

FORWARD TO

SECURITE

OFFICE

ATTACHRENT

CANCEL

(x0

notice

la Division)

recko bloode

D1V1560%

"eE remaria)

RECUEST RI TRACES

REQUEST OPERATIONAL AND DIVISION TRACES

REQUEST FIELD TRACES

.. 8

REQUES?

REQUEST GREER LIST

REQUEST RESULTS FA/D DOSSIER REVIEN

REVIEW FI'D CILLATERAL IAFORBATIDAG

REQUEST

RESULTS TECHRICAL

INTERROGATIDE INIM

REVIEN SECURITY EFFICE REFORT AT CHIDA

REVIEW SECURITY OFFICE COMCURDENT MEMO AT CI/SA

REVIEN AT ClOA

SER BEPEAT

ACELETURN REPORT

REQUEST REVITE OF ATTACHES PEFERENCE

ADVISE Cl/Da

MATURE AND SIGHIFICANCE

FILE

TICKLE

NOTICE

SECOND

#8 FRE

ORSO NOTICE TO BITISION

POA EXPIRED

PLEASE

SUBMIT PRO 11.

BEEN INDICATED, PEA MILL BE AUTORATICALLY CANCELLED.

IF, BITNIS JO DAYS, NO FURTHER INTEREST IN SONIEGY

"FAILURE

TE SUOMIT DOC !! AS DEQUIRED UNDED CSI MO. IQS DE TO INDICATE MAY FUOTHIS INTERIST IN COTAININE LIPONTAS

FOR THE OPERATIONAL USE OF SUBJECT.

MAZEBIRPES

26 JAN 568

CANOELLED

CEX7 TO SECURITY

707

SECRET

---

## Page 29

SECRET

USTE

REQUEST FOR INFORMATION AND REVIEW

8

2.*

TO:

с во.

FROM: CHIDE, CI/OA

SUBJECT:

IAL ONOER

FURTHER

CONSIDERATION MAY

BE GIVEN

YOUR

REQUEST FOR

APPROVAL

IN THIS

CASE

THAT

YOU FERNISH

THIS

OFFICE

INFORMATION

CHECKED

OR REVIED INFORMATION

1N0

PRO

TAFF'D COSSIER

IS REQUESTED

CATED.

COLLATERAL. LATCAWATION

FIELD

TRACES

R!

TRACES

OPERATICAAL AND DIVISICAIMACES

RESULTS IS TECHNICAL IATESROSATION

GARFA LIST

ROTICE:

MANANAS:

CONCURFENT RENO

AT

CI/OA

REVIES DE

ATTACHED REFERENCE

OTHLAS (See Renarks)

Part II. II, "Ithin 30 days, no furtber interest in Subject has

keen indicated, POA will be autoratically cancelled.

*они 889а

#8#

SECRET

1801

---

## Page 30

SECRET

SET

SEE

IMSTRUCTION SHEET

FIRESITE

I%OICES

4044997

INSKERY

chie

329609

DATE

CIVERT NAME

CHECK

PEDITE FI

DICI

O850

LAREA:

1131

ISSUE DPERATICRAL APPROVAL

ISSUE PROVISIONAL CPERATIONAL APFROYAL

ENTERS FON FOR

DA+S GATEL

MEINSTATE DOA §OF

JaYS UTIL

FEBANO STACHRENT YE DIVISION

FEARIND TO

SECUAITY OFFICE

8% 1

CANCEL PEE

DIVISICA WENO DATED

(no matice to Division)

CARCEL

PER

(2659007

C1/04

BOTICE

checked belon.

a tresses

RELEST RI

TRACES

HEIUEST

AND

DIVISION TRACES

BERETE

FIELE

TRACES

REIGEST

REQUEST GREEN LEST

REQUEST RESULTS EX/D COSSIER KEYSEN

REVIES FI'D COLLATERAL ISFORMLTIU

REQUEST RESULTS

REOCERCGATSON PRCECHNICAL

SECURITO MOESCE

REVIEE SECURITY OFFICE REFORT AT CI/OR

REVIEN SECURITY OFFICE COMCURRINT MEMD RT CI'OA

REVIES AT CI'CA

REQUEST REVIER OF

ADVISE CI/DA OF

RATURE

ARD

SISMIFICANCE

FILE

TВ CHREI

ROTICE

# I BAL

ORSE MOTICE TO DIVISIO

PLEASE SUBMIT

PRO 11. IF, MITHIS 1O DAYS, HD FURTHER INTESEST IN SUBJECT

A DILL BE SUTCHATICALLY

CANCELLED.

TO SUBMIT POS

FIO TRE OFÉMATIORAL USE DE

REQUIRES UNDER CSI DO, 10-5 DE TO INDICATE ANY FURTHER INTEREST IN DATAIRING APPROTEI

HERAKAS

Dest

707

SECRET

---

## Page 31

C-101331

35

CLASSIFY TO FILE NO.

#-PEN TO FILE NO.

ARE RIDD

#ET.

TO BRANCED

BESTROY

D sie.

3221

14F0

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

PERSOO/UNIT NOTIFIED

REFROOUCTICN PROMIBITES

ADIRACE COPY

UNIT

TiME

& RID COPY

SECRET 292220Z CITE MEXICO CITY 2961 LANGDON ACTING

INFO DIRECTOR JMWAVE

PBRUMEN

C• 10/331

23 SECES I SES

FYI MEXICO STATION CONTACT LITAYIL-S (IDEND, SCHEDULED LEAVE

MEXICO 28 SEPT ON VACATION TRIP MADRID, BARCELONA, PARIS AND

POSSIBLY THE HAGUE AND BRUSSELS. LITAMIL-S WILL DEFINITELY CALL

ON CUBAN OFFICIAL

REPS MADRID, BARCELONA AND PARIS. CLOSE FRIEND

OF HIS IN PARIS IS ALEJO CARPENTIER BELMONT. LITAMIL-9 WILL RE-

PORT ANY INFO ELICITED FROM OFFICIALS E CALLS ON.

PLANS RETURN LATE OCT.

SECRET

SECRET

BL

89. 5a: iSS7

---

## Page 32

SECRET

DATE:

1224

230*

VEMCRANDUM FOR:

SUBJECT

Deputy Director of Security

(Investigations and Support)

C#

sof

201#

ATTACHMENTS (IF ANY):

/5/

CHIEF, CI/QA

воR# 2413

#- 69

SECRET

---

## Page 33

UNCLASSIFIED

•TERNAL

USE ONLY

CON. DENTIAL

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT: (untenall

Traces on Luis ALFFPU-Souto

FROM.

WH/1

TO: (Officer tasignation, nse number, and

buikling)

DATE

BRE GION

4267

BATE

SECRET

28 August 1967

to show t0т wo

REGENED

AC/WH/1

7/29 97

329601

CI/OA

196 14 8: 8

57 ang

Cify to O5

610 158 PREVIOUS

EDITONG

SECRET

D

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 34

SECRET

28 higast 1967

ROHORANDUM FOR: CI/OA

ATTENTION

:

ЗUВJУCT

REFERENCE

Traces on Luis ALBaRE-Souto

201-329509

CI/OA Menorandun dated 15 June 1967

1. Fer your referenced request, toe FBI documents vere located

and reviewed aith the Pollming results:

a. The firat document dealt with a Luis SOrO who was

appointed Coumerciai Attache of the Dominican Eabessy,

Madrid. This 18 not our subject.

b. All documerts referenced luis ATFZRU-Souto's

assignent as Cuban Cultural Attacke in Mexico City, Mis

residences, telephose mumbers, are his relationshigs

With the Spanish Communist group in Mexico.

The next three items deal with a Luis SOTO, a

member al the PPS of Mexico. This is not our Subject.

2. Subject wad

and his activities

Per parasia 1-b are well known to this agency. These accivities

vere considered to be in line with his assigment and are sot

presently considered to offer a threat to operational security.

PRA Parts I and II vill be forwarded your Office upon

receipt fron the Station.

feting Chief, wa/1

SECRET

Eat 97a

ateralis

---

## Page 35

SECRET

LATE

REQUEST FOR INFORMATION AND REVIEW

TO:

E #0.

FROM: CHIEZ, CI/QA

/s/

SUBJICS:

ORDER

FURTHER CONSIDERATION

MAY BE

YOU FURNISH THIS OFFICE

GIVEN YOUR REDLEST FOR

APPROVEL

THE INFORMATION

IN THIS CASE

CHECKED BELOR.

OR REVIEW

INFORMATION IS

IS RESUESTED

INDICATED.

TRACES

OF

0F

PROSe TI

OF

SH FORMATIO

AT

C1/0A

#ENO

AT CI'ON

SHELLY

#35A7139

MEPORT AI СЛіСЯ

REMIER DF

ATTACHED DEFERENCE

DIMERS (See derarks)

RESULTS

GREEN

KOTICE:

REMARIS:

Countated theonge to C1

using

1: D06rc=t

these

r0207-9,

sides,

4:27

889

SECRET

---

## Page 36

FOR POA

SET

FOR DA

INSTRUCTION SHEET

EXPEDITE

INDICES

SPECIAL

14823 47

pATE

SECRET

•A &

di...1s7

ERFEDITE FAI

ISSICES

AREA:

=ASE a:. 101.

329609

DATE

COVEEY ASME

CHECE.

ISSUE OPERATIORAL

REQUEST GREEN LIST

ISSUE PROVISIONAL OPERATIONAL APPROVAL

REQUEST RESULTS ER/D DOSSIES NEVIEW

EXTENO POL FOR

DAYS UNTIL

DENIER FI'D COLLATEDAL IASDENATION

LEINSTATE POA FOR

LAYS UNTIL

REQUEST RESULTS TECHNICAL

ISTERROGATION FROG

SICURITO SEESCA

08S&

FORMARD ATTACHMER: TO DIVISICA

REVIEN SECURITY CFFICE REACET AT CI/DA

FORWARD TO

-EPIDITY

REVIET SECURITY CFFICE CONISAMERT MEMO AT CA/CA

CANCEL PER

Division)

CANCEL

(Reason

NOTICE

•bee

ched below. *

DIN15+09

are remarka)

BEVIES AT CI/DA

BEDORT

«САДИТРЕВНІРОЯТ

REQUEST REVIEW DF ATTACHED RIFERENCEI

ADVISE COICA OF AATURE AND SIGMIFICANCE

REQUEST RE TRACES

REQUEST OPERATIORAL AND

TRACES

REQUEST FIELD TRACES

I Tiere 15 Jelly.

NOTICE

*HEST

second

81 018

REQUEST

ORSO MOTICE TO DIVISION

PARAP 42

#: EASE SUBMIT

BEEN INDICATED, DOA MILL BE AUTOMATICALLY CANCELLED.

PRO 11. 1F, WITHIN 9D DAYS, NO TURTHER

INTEREST IN SUBJECT

•FAILURE TO SUMI! POS !! SO OSCUIRED LOSIO CSI.NO. 1O-E CO TO INDICATE ANY FURTUES INTERIST IN DOTAININE EIROYAL

FOR THE OPERATIONAL USE OF SUBJECT.

LENARAS

Proc. u.

To: w'H/s

Vice.wuake copy fattached i TBI documcit fastergo and scud ta etele.

fidiego to CS-i later to Ito persationel ricuinty freing the vietyait.

$- 69 707

SECRET

---

## Page 37

SECRET

REQUEST FOR INYESTIGATION AND/OR MAME CAECK

18 : Deputy Director Suerity, ICS

TaM: Chief, CI/Operational Approvel

aId Support Division

27 April 1967

PROJECT AND AREA OF ASSIGAMENT

SLEJECT:

201 -

329609

TYPE

OF FEGUEST

SOF 279039

LAS INDICES RESULTS BY

wE/1/M

X

USE OF SUBJECT

(Dale)

2 May 1967

FI Informant

SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS (Limitations

Mexico

F91 CHECK #ESULTS

(Dese)

Sep

pretent, etc.)

CS TRACE RESULTS

GREEN

LIST

PERIANS

DEROG. LEO IN CI/CA

DEROG. INFO IN CI/OA

DEROG.

INFO IN CI/OA

DTHIR

1S/ 22x4r1 2. Broth

ENDÜHSEVENT

9224

T® : Chief, CI/CA

FECH:

DATE 5/3/67

Deputy Director Security, IOS

OS Indices results:

no dile juice serenast

X2. Checks were conducted at the indicated Agencies with negative results:

I&N

3. Checks were conducted at the following Agency (les) with positive results,

reports attached FBI

4. Domestie Pield Investigation has been completed, -_ reports attached.

5. Dovestic Pield Investigation favorable, reports will follow within 60 days-

cable disted 219081463

It 4

SECRET

---

## Page 38

- L0L3311

BUUTING AND/DA SHITIALS - SEEN BY.

nak

MESSAGE FORM

TOTAL EGPITSE

SECRET

ENT. KH/CCG/FI/Ob

EXT:

5061

BasE, 20 MARCH 67

COME

RID COPY

110

FILE RID

379609-_

FILE

-SIC-RE T

SECREi

Hase sna fine Less

05 Z

то Г

MEXICO CITY JUTAVE

TYPIC

CITE DIRECTOR

85178

21: 527il2

OVER

cavitai

1. AT 15 MARCH MEETING WITH SHRYOCK AND FRAYDER,

(LITANIL-9

REPORTED THAT ABRAHAM MACIQUES, CUBAN OFFICIAL INIT AND HIS FRIEND,

MADE CONTACT BY PHONE AT 2300 NIGAT BEFORE HE LEFT FOR CUBA.

LITAMIL-9 SAY MACIQUES AT HOTEL AGNES NEXT DAY POR FEW MINUTES

BEFORE MACIQUES LEFT FOR AIRPORT. BELIEVE L-9 GAVE MACIQUES FEW

ITEMS FOR HIM TAKE TO CONCHITA FERNANDEZ. ACCORDING L-9, MACIQUES

HOULD PROBABLY BE WILLING COOPERATE WITH INFORT IF APPROACHED.

MACIQUES FORMERLY MARRIED TO AMERICAN WHO NOW IN U.S. WITH THO

CHILDREN, MACIQUES WHO HEBREW NOW MARRIED TO CUBAN MULATTO.

HE

BROTHER PEDRO MACIQUES, MACIQUES TOLD LN9 EB EXPECTED RETUR

MEXI EN ROUTE EXPO 67 IN ABOUT MONTH, POSSIBILITY USE BROTHER L-Q

(IDEN) AS ENTREE MACIQUES DISCUSSED WITH L-9 WHO FELT THIS BEST

APPROACH VIEW BROTHER'S BUSINESS BACKGROUND AND FRIENDSHIP. BOREVER,

SAID WOULD HAVE TO QUERY BROTHER RE HIS ACCEPTANCE PLAY OPS ROLE.

LITAMIL-9 WAS ALSO ASKED TRY AND FIND OUT

CONTINUED///

HELLASING BENICI

ING OFFICERS

SECRET

AAPHINTICATINO

CAFICER

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

COPY Na

---

## Page 39

HOUTINE END/OR INITIALS - SEEN ST

IPSEB

BATt

BATE:

CABLI SACRETASIAI DISSIMINATION

L.J RID COPY

TOTAL COPIES

SECRET

LADER

NO INDEX

FiLE

DESTPOT

D

RETURNE TO

ID FILE IN ES THENO.

. ve

liase and ta feet

119

BRANCH

FILE HIE

CITE DIRECTOR

- 109

Rance Marcer

85/28

7

SECRET

10Г ETA MACIQUES MEXI ORDER GET LEAD TIME LAY ON OP.

2. CUBANA AIRLIST SHOWS ABRAILAM MACIQUES MACIQUES,

PP D/66/392, LEFT HABANA FOR MEXI 22 AUGUST 66 EN ROUTE EXPO.

HADANA ON 8 FEB 6%, FBIS REPORT SriOWS MACIQUES IN CHARCE

CUBAN FOOD AND BEVERAGE COMMITTEE AT EXPO.

3. REQUEST MEXI ASCERTAIN SCONEST AMENABILITY BROTHER PLAY

ROLE OP AND TAKE STEPS GET ETA MACIQUES MEXI, FOR WAVE: REQUEST

STATION ANOT TRACES MACIQUES AND EX-WIFE. ALSO ADVISE SCONEST

ANY INFO RE DEPARTURE MACIQUES FOR MEXI•

END OF MESSAGE

LINT V. BROE

C/ WH

#ELEASING OFFICER

REPRODUCTIO!

COOFDINATINO CAVICTIS

SECRET

OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE I

CHOUP

OHIBITED.

C/WH/COG

MITRATICATINO

OFFICER

CORT NO.

---

## Page 40

841/8

NII/COG/ FI/OD

tIt:

5061

20 MARCH 1007

CARLE SECRETARIAT DISTEN EATE 306

4.0.

CONF

WH/eCGS

db

MESSAGE FORM

TOTAL COPIESS

24

SECKET

weX. DESTROY

• no mer

NETUTS TO-

I RUN EmITS 201-320609

BOUTING BAD/CA MATIALS - SEEN EY

1 10

FILE RID

LAID COPY

SEGRET

TO I MEXICO CITY IMNAVE

PBRUMEN TYPIC

REF:

DIRECTOR

85/18

debras anas time Medi

21 00

05 Z

CITE DIRECTOR

7

(sies)

85177

7

WHO NOW CUBAN EXILE MEXI.

END OF MESSAGE

112

21 MA.: 1957

11/2.

VILLIAM V. BROL

C/NH

COOAPILATPIS DIFICERS

SECRET

AUTNENPICATIAE

REFRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE I PROHIBITED.

---

## Page 41

MEMORANDUN FCE: Cales,

SECRET

PROVISIDNAL OPERATICHAL APPROVAL

FUSEFER

SUBJECT

I REFERENCE:

Tour lescrata ag

Dates

A Provisiera: Greratinues Aoproval is grante i fry the use

as set torth bein.

this

Subject

1 Prorisiona: Certical Approval Isere: or CI State granta

a cesperari tari, for the use of an individual as the authorit

grantei in an Certainli degral mless coiertise specified or Ot/Or.

based, conever, cat

Premininary file cecre and irvestictsion and 15 sic-

ject tn a further dinai revier men all incestigation la eccpieted.

To process the Operational Approval, full inforration (completed PRE

Par*z I and II) rust ie subrited as soon as possible. and not later than six

(5) catas from itis date. An Operatioral Approval will follow uben all

inestigation is carpleted and pon the receipt of satisfactory PR& Parts I

Cancellatica must be requested if sse of Subjest by interestes

visiore ceases.

/s

AFPROSAL

CI /OPERATICIAL APFROTAL AND SUPPIT DIVISICS

B- 69 125

• 0:

SECRET

DATE

1#1

---

## Page 42

SECRET

SET

$ 22

EET

F=a

POA

INSTRUCTICH SHEET

EXPEDITE

JACICES

SPECIAL

SATE

:=7

329509

USE

COVERT SLANE

CHECK

WHERE *E

ARIA:

2055

DATE

ISSUE OPERATIONAL APPROXAL

BEQUEST SHEER LEST

Л

ISSUE PROVISIONAL OPEDATISTiLL AFROVAL

FEDLEST HIS LIS FI/D DOSSIER MENIZE

EXTERO POA FOR

DAYS U+111

MORATE POR FOR

DAYS LATEL

яки" 3ї

FIAHARE TO

SECURITY OFFICE

(re sotice to Division)

CIRCEL

PER

(Feason

checked belove to pit for

remarks)

PIQUEST AI TRACES

BERNEST DPERATIOHAL RUD EIFRIIDE TRACES

HEZUEST FIELD TRACES

FERNEST

*EXTEN FLIE COLLETERAL ISFORWATIM

FEELESE NESILYS

TECHHItAL

IATEROSEATICE

5#1m

0888550+

SENILE SECURITE OFFICE REPORT AT CICA

FIXIED SECURITY EFFICE CONCURNENT MEMO AT CO/CA

BESUS SAG ATTA HED SEEERENCES

ADVISI CITOR

RATURE AND SIS%IFICANCE

FILE

ASTICE

($09ST

1=a1

ORSI NOTICE TO BRUISION

PLEASE

MRS SEEN INDICATED.

FOR FILL TE RUTCMSTICALLY CANCELLED.

SUBMIT PRO 68- 1F, MITMIT JO DAYS, NO FURTHER INTEREST IN SCENET

FAILURE TO SUBMIT PRE HE

=DO THE OPERATIGNAL USE

AS FEUIRED UNDER CSI BE, 10-5 OR TO INDICITE AST FURTHER INTEREST IN SOTAININO MESAINTL

SUBJECT.

REMARKS

# 8#

707

SECRET

---

## Page 43

SECRET

REQUEST FOR INYESTICATION AND/OR NAME CHECK

TO

: Derity Director Security, IOS

PRIJECT ANO ARCA OF AIJIGRMENT

and Support Division

SUBJECT: 201 -

232

FEQUEST

TOS P'ICES RESULTS EY

(Dora)

FEL CHECK RESULTS DY

(Dide)

USE OF SUBJEET

SPECIAL IRSTELCTSONS (LEM

present. etc.)

CS TRACE FESULTS

GREES LIST INITIATED

TUES

REMARKS

1* *

DIVISIOR

FIELO

2 01

ATTACHIESTS

1. I.19.12-=-=

ENOCREETERT

10 : Chief, CI/QA

FRaN: Deputy Director Security, IOS

1. OS Indices results:

DATE 5/3/2%

46-16200:4

HAY

=-84

693

19. 110 :1

aces +913 19-94920

alders anging +ix1t4728

SECRET

---

## Page 44

TO :

FRCH:

SECRET

REQUEST FOR INVESTIGATION AND/OR NAME CHECK

DATE

deputy Diressor Security, IOS

PROJECT AND BEER OF ASSIGNER:

Chief, CI/Operational Approsal

and Sapport Dirision

SUBJECT:

201 -

T-FE

#ISLEST

OS IADICES RESULTS BY

(Date)

TOT CHECE DESULTS EY

(Dese)

rigation.

etc.s

CS TRACE DESULTS

SHEES LIST

FiELD

4o 112'

M0/2

ATTRUBEATS

OTHER

/ 5

2.7. 2.

ERDORSELENT

693

SECRET

---

## Page 45

SECRET

CATE

INSTRUCTION SHEET

CASE NO.

261.

2: .:

C.- 101331

SET

U*

FOR

P0%

i*"6

INDICES

SET

FOR

SPECIAL

2 Way

COVERT NAME

CHECK

EXPEDITE FBI

INDICES

DATE

AREA:

Mexico

F'I is foruaut

15412

OPERATINU

APPROvAL

MEGUEST GREEN LIST

FISCE PROVISIONEL

OPERATIONEL APIECYAL

GEQUEST RESULTS FI/D BOSSIER RENIEN

EXTEND POA FOR

REVIES FA'S COLLATERAL

ISFORURTION

REINSTATE POA FIR

DAYS UNTIL

REQUEST RESULTS

TECHNICAL

ISTEHROGATICN TREM

SECURITY IRFICE

DINI880€

FORDARO ATTACINENT TO DIVISION

MEET MEANIETY

FORMARO TO

SECURITY OFFICE

REVIEW SECURITY OFFICE CONCURREMT MEMO AT CO/RA.

FANGS& VER

notice

21883109

MEMO DATED

te Givision

REVIEW

eT Cliún

"ANCEL PER

.a1.9

DIVISI

BE SITTERS

REQUEST REYIEN

0F

ADVISE CANOA OF

ATTACHED REFERENCE,

SIGH FICANCE

REQUEST #I TRACES

FILE sitt

REQUEST OPERATIINAL AND DIVISIDE TRACES

REQUEST FIELD TRACES

NOTICE

SECOND

• • Him

H6211257

O#SO MOTICE TO DIVISION

POA

PLEASE SUBMIT

HAS BEEN BRETCATED, FOR FILL TE SIGMATICALLY CARCELLED.

PRO 11. 15, $1TH1* 30 DAYS, NO FURTHER INTEREST IN SUBJECT

"FAILURE TO SLIMIT PRO 1E

FOR THE OPERATIONAL USE OF SUBJECT.

AS PEDIÍRED UNDER CSI NO, PO-S OR TO INDICATE ANY FURTHER INTEREST IN OBTAININÍ INTROVAL

REMARKS

ArR 2S

ta.

707

3SAHt EN

SECRET

---

## Page 46

UNLASSIFIED • L INTERNAL

USE ONLY

CO IDENTIAL

SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

FROM:

3 8 thos

429104

DATE

TO: ¡Officer dumpestion,

building)

namoe, and

DATE

HE CEVED

BLET

CANCANS

FOR ARDED

18 Ciprist.

OMMENT

whom. Dom a line ocroat cole other each can he

4p1

6.

7.

03/00

13.

610 BIO

MORE WARRI

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERMAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 47

SECRET

• REQUEST FOR APPROVAL OR INVESTIGATIVE ACTION

SATE

PLEASE COMPLETE EACH SECTISE AND APPROPRIATE BEAVE

18 Apr12 1967

TO:!

OF 1/OPERATISEL APPROVAL ENO SUPPORT DIVISION

FROM:

CHIEF.

SIFOORT DIVISION, DEFFICE OF SECURITY

CHISE FESTIVEL SECURITY DIVISION. OFF ICE OF SECUEITY

WH/1/NexIco

I 4167

3 B 4706

SUBJECT:

"True

PROJECT

ANA ON

ALIASIE

CI/DA FILE NO.

FACVISIONAL OPEFSIONAL AFPROVRI

SOS OFERATIONAL APESIVAL

PROVISIONAL COVIET

SECURITY dEPFOVAL

COVERT SECURITY ERADOVAL

RI REI FILE NO

ISO FILE NO.

1. TYPE ACTION

201-329609

REQUESTED

PRSVISIOGAL PROPRIETARY APPROVAL

PROPEIETARY APPROVAL

COVERT HAVE CHECK

SPECIAL INOUIRY (SO field doventilation)

CONTRACT TYPE O

SPECIFIC AREA oF ISE

Trian

Sabject roald be contasted only when specifie needs for information arise

and the poonibility exists that be has or could obtain informtion -on

Cobna actititles or personalities.

.

INVESTIGATION AND COVER

A. W-S- GOVERNHEST : OTEREST MAY BE SHOWN DURING INVESTIGATIONS

YES

NO

CIA ENTEREST MAY HE SHOWY DURINE INVESTIGATION!

C- IS SUBJECT AWARE IF U.S, GOVERNMINT INTEREST 1N HIM?

D.. IS SUBJECT AWARE JE CIA INTEREST IN HIM?

E. INCACATE ANY LIRITATIONS ON COVERAGE IN THE INVESTIGATION DE SUBJECT.

F. SUGGEST "COVER METEXTO TO BE USED IN CONDUCTINE PERSONAL ISVESTIGATION OF SUBJECT.

DO YOU PLAY TO DONE SUBJECT HITTING OF AGENCY OR GOVERSMENT INTERESTI

IF NO IAVESTIGSTIDN JUTSIDE CIA. EXPLAIN FULLY

104 veS

PRO AND GREEN LIST STATUS

DESPRE I. OR EOUTALENT. DE 120 CIRIES ATTACHED

PRO 11 BILL

&E FORWARDED

ZIrY ATTACHED

XX

GREEN LIST ATTACHED.

N0:

RI TRACES

RECORD

WILL FORWARD

7• DIVISION TRACES

RECORD

WILL BEATARO

*. FIELD TRACES

1. 274318

RECORD

*

*

1 40

#CO-DEROGATORY

• DEROSATORI

ASH-DEROGATORY

SELL FORBARO

XOCE EROGATORY XXXIN CI/OA 1e la possessIon

SIGNIFICARE IATORMATION ATTACHED

EXTENSICS

4167

SIGNATURE eF

SECRET

---

## Page 48

SUBJECT:

DPOB:

CITIZ ASHT:

OCCUPATION:

PHYSICAL

DESCRIPTION:

MARITAL SEnTOS:

PARENTS:

BROTHERS:

SISTERS:

SECRET

1915 1m Oviedo, Spain

Cuban

Presently Cuban exile residing 1n Mexico City

HE ICHT:

WEIGET

BAIR

6 feet call

170 to 175 plus

black

1949

nexico 1565%

100y were divorced in 1956.

Sbe

FAT:

MOTHER:

(Father and Mother are divorced and she is prestntly

residing 1n Madrid, Spaln.)

SECRET

18 6

---

## Page 49

7 re

0001

shes. C/nil/COG/FI

0x%: R1457

BA18d7 MARCK 1967

CABLE SICARTANLAS DISSEMINATIORE

pid

BOBAL COPIES

SECRET

1960 г

INDEN

Destror.

OU PINE IN ES TILE NO.

SETURN BO

1 10

BRANCH

O 1813

жет.

K'tik:r-3

RID COPY

": 1

Fia crivi

SECRET

• I PRIORITY MEXICO CITY, JUMAVE

NO NIACT

10 CO

01'z

CITE DIRECTOR

fraterence members

8:46.9.9

7

7

PERUNEN TYPIC

REFS: A HEXI 0711 (IX 23299)

B WAVE 6098 (IN 23524)

C MEXI 0718 (IN 23582) '

Grands

311569

1. HQS PREFERS TRAVEL A!SNIKE-L BE DELSTED UNTIL UPDATED

SIde: 55

ASSESSENT OBTAINED FTOM LISATVIES PARA VREE A: AND POSSIBLY

6.106545

OTHER SOURCES SEXI CLIKRAFT, LET'S AND POSSIBLY LITAFTY-E).

2. "EL SOL"' MEXI DAILY 16 MAR REPORTED DELEGATES CONGRESS

NOT SCHEDULED RETURN MEXICO CITY UNTIL 23 MAR AFTER VISITS

GUANAJUATO AND GUADALAJARA. IQS OPINION IF PITCH! MADE SHOULD BE

• MADE MEXICO CITY WERE BETTER POSSIBILITY EXISTS ISOLATE HIM FROM

OTHER MEMBERS HIS DELEGATION. HOKEVER, UNLESS HARD INFO

DEVELOPED INDICATING OTERO RECRUITABLE HQS OPINION LITTLE

CHANCE SUCCESS VIEW SOTIL REPORT MICII REVEALED HE NAHED VICE

PRESIDENT OF CULTURAL COUNCIL ON 18 FEB AND LITANIL INFERENCE

FROM CONVERSATION WITH FERNANDEZ PER RET A TIAT OTERO STAR ON

SOOEDINATHNG CIPICIAS

MIRAND OPICIE

SECRET

AUTHENIICATINSA

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIDITED.

DOw 400

---

## Page 50

MESSAGE POTA

IOIAI COPES

SECRET

BOUTINE AND/OR HAITIALS - LIENSE

Ar4r7e

fals

BATE:

CARLA BACASIAHLAS DIISAMILATIONI

D

RETLEN TO.

• BUSHEN

RID COPY

RO INDEE

SILE

PAGE

"Tio

! tea and some ties

CITE DIRECTOR

to

7

RISE. IN ADDITION, PRESTIGE FACTOR WIICH FINDS OTERO MONG SOST

7

GUILLEN AND FERNANDEZ, ALSO MILITATES AGAINST SUCCESSFUL RECRUITMENT.

3. REQUEST MEXICO ASCERTAIN AS NEAR AS POSSIBLE ITINERARY

AND DATES TRAVEL CUBAN DELEGATIÓN PARTICULAILS ITS RETURN MEXICO

CITY AND PROBABLE LENGTH STAY.

END OF MESSAGE

C/WI/D

(by phone)

#LEAST OPTICAN

ODADIMATIRO CAPICTES

Corans

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIGITED.

AUTHENTICATION

cort oug.

---

## Page 51

ES UACLASSIFIED

INTERNAL

SE ONLY

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

• COR DENTIAL

SECRET

SUBJECT: (Optiant)

FROM:

DATE,

TO: (Olor desipestion, room number, ent

bibeling)

1.

DATE

RECEIVED

4167

OFFICER'S

MATIALS

FAT11 1967

FORMATED

C/RZ/1

329489

c-1013362

1O.

7 APR 967 -

12.

83.

pe.

610 IRONO

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 52

SEGNET

5 April 1967

YISORANDUM FÓR:

CI/oA

ANYHITIO!

SUBJECT

LITAVII-9

201-329609

3 ilovember be vas cutacted and debriefed by lexico City Station.

Throughout the conth of loverber he debated the question of bether

or not he

siould return to Cuba. In the first week of December 1966,

be decided to renain in Mexico.

it was believed that LIlI-, would have little sc

or to persons of interest in lexico, be was terminated

and the balance of his escrow account was paid to him on 9 December

1906. Fowever, it has since becore apperent that from time to time

it would de valuable to :OFACT to contect IT01II-) 20% indomuatios

on PERUSH Derson2litles•

He is acquainted vith a large mibes of

persons who thenselves are of interest to 0rict or who could supply

Information on third persons on bon inforcation is needed.

Terefore; provisional operational emproval and subroguett

operational approval for such occasional contact with LUATIg 15

It is sot planned to pay him a salary or formalize en

egent reletionshid. Ill NIlg would only be contacted when specific

needs for infomation arise and the possibility exists that he has

or could obtain the infomation.

Chier,

SEGRET

Elite 1? :

=: 16-318

*::

..779

• 11

---

## Page 53

Case as fried is Fau'66.

her 772, up-sate

cince Gug. '62

Fall theren

Ties Face fist -

jon-t? - quit the couts

Within are wife i child'

POA

ingenuent

---

## Page 54

CLASSIFY TO FILE NO..

#-HET TO FILE NO.

FILE MIDO BET. TO DRAMEN D

BESTROY

O 516.

B ROM

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

PERSON UNIT NOTIFIED

ACTION

118F C

WH8

A RID COPY

FIEVR, WH/COGS,

TOTAL COPIES

246-10133)

REPRODUCTION PROMIBITES

LOVANCE CEPT

O... co

CI Cops, CT/CA.

TINE

FI,

SECRET ZZIZAZ CIE MEXICO CITY 0789

DIRECTOR INFO SWAVE

IN 3-0663

PERUMEN

JOAQUIN HERNANDEZ ARMAS RETURNED FROM CUBA 18 MARCH®

C-101337

/ LIIAMIL-9 WHO CALLED ON HIM 21 MARCH AT STATION DIRECT IVE

FOUND HIM NERVOUS AND PREOCCUPIED• AMBASSADOR NEV•RT HELESS

LAUDED CURRENT ECONOMIC AND POLITICAL SITATION CUBA AND

SAID HAD FINE VACATION.

SECRET

B1

le

28 !:P 1957

SECRET

---

## Page 55

CLASSIFY TO FILE NO..

JONES TO PILE NO.

PILE RIOD RET. TO BRANEN O

sitia,.

CLISSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFTED

TOTAL COPIES

IMECEDENCE

35 FROQUETION PRESIBITES

ACTION

NICE COPY

1066

WH/C05F URD COPY

UNIT

TIME

One nora Buero! WH/86 1942J

IIE, VR, (S/DE, WITE, CAL, CALIE, CA/OY,

LISA, EL, FLINT

-SECRET 1617382 EITE MEXICO CITY ETSS 1628RET IN 925299

- PRIORITY DIRECTOR INTO UMWAVE

:. TYPIC PERUMEN

REFERENCE: A. DIRECTOR 83192 #

B. MEXICO CITY 0689

(*22402)+

..lo ACCORDING TO MEJIA SANCHEZ, LISANDRO OTERS AND ALEJO

CARPENTER ARRIVED MEXI MORNING 1S MAN. OTERO FROBABLY

ARRIVED FROM ZUROPE WITH CARPENTIER. CHECKING AIRLISTS.

2. DELEGATES TO CONGRESS LEFT MEXICO NIGHT 15 MAR AND

MORNING 16 MAR FOR GUAHAJUATO AND GUADALAJARA WHERE CONGRESS

WILL CONTINUE UNTIL SUNDAY, 19 MAR, AT WHICH TIME DELEGATES

WILL RETURN MEXICO CITY WHERE MÉETINGS WILL' CONTINUE UNTIL

25 MARCH.

C-1013311

3. WIGHT ISMARCH, LÍTAMIL -9/REPORTED THAT IN RECENT

TELECON WITH CONCHA FERMANDEZ LATTER GAVE HIM UNDERSIAND IHAT

LISAIDRO DERO REPLACED CARLOS LECHUGA AS HEAD CULTURAL

COUNCIL NAVANA.

4. MORMING 16 MAR CO MET MEJIA SANCHEZ FOR FIVE MINUTE SESSION

DURING WHICH TIME MEJIA TOLD GET BEST READING POSSIBLE MY WOR

OTERO DURINE CONGRESS, CO GA'SUBU MOST RECENT BOOK OTERO WAITIN

SECRET

---

## Page 56

PAGE 2 MEXICO CITY 2711 SECRET SACRET

- HE GLAD RECEIVE AS WILL USE GET DEDICATORY SIGNATURE AND GET

CLOSE OTERO: CO AI MEJIA SANCHEZ HOUSE WHEN CAFLOS SOLOPIANO

CAME BY PICK HIM UP AI 0808 EN ROUTE GUANAJUATO, MEJIA OSTENSIBLY WORRIE

POSSIBILITY SOLORZAHO SHRYOCK CONFROSTATION. MEJIA ARFIVES HOME FROM

CONGRESS AT 2328 MRS ON 15 MAR AND MIS SET UP FOR BSEE MOFWING 16 MAR

VIEW SCHEDULED B922 DEPAFTURE FROM HOUSE. MEUIA MENTIONED AT BE08

MIG THAT ONE OF COSGRESS SECRETARIES TOLD HIM NICARAGUAN WRITERS

REFUSED ATTEND CONGRESS BECAUSE IT COMMUNISI-CONTROLLED.

5. RESULTS A HOUR NIG WITH MEJIA NICHT

14 FAR FAVORABLE. WILL

REPORI IN DETAIL UPON AFRIVAL HES. MEJIÁ INVITED CUBA TO AITEND

RECERT "ENCUE TRO CON DARIC" AND AUXIOUS GO. WENT TO SEE FFIENDS

LUIS ECHEVERRIA, MIX GOVERNACION, AND ENRIQUE SONZALEZ CASANOVA

WHO WORKS AI PRESIDENCIA RE ADVISABILITY TRIP AND BOTH TOLD MEJIA

NOT RISK TRAVEL CUEA VIE HIS RESIDENT STATUS. DEJIA HAS

RETAINED NICARAGLAN CITIZENSHIP AND THEREFORE VULNERABLE MEXI GOVI

•ACTION, PLAN LGON INTO POSSIBILITIES SET MEXI GOUT PROTECTION

TRAVEL. VIEW INABILITY EO CUBA MEJIA SENT 3 COPIES PAPER RE DARIO WITH

MARCO ANTONIO MONTES DE OCA FOR JOSE ANTONIO POEIUONDO, POEERIO

FERMANDEZ RETAMAR AND CINTIO VITIER. LATTER, ACCORDING MONTES

DE OCA DID NOT GET PAPER: BEÇAUSE HE ECH IN MENTAL INSTITUTION.

SECRET

C.

bod

---

## Page 57

PAGE 3 MEXICO CITY B7I1 SECRET

SECRET

6. MEJIA HAS ACCESS MANY SIATION TAFGEIS, INCLUDING FEDRO

GUILLEN MEXICAN WHO INTIMATE FRIEND, GUILLEN, ACCORDING LIREBEL -1,

IN CHARGE MEXI OF CLANDESTINE TRAVEL CUBA FOR IRAINING. MEJIA

COOPERATIVE RE REQUIREMENIS CONGRESS. HE SCHEDULED ATTEND

SEMINAR AT SOUTHERN ILLINOIS UNIV IN CARBONDALE, ILLINOIS

DURING PERIOD 19-25 APRIL. CO SCHEDULED MIG WITH MEJIA FOR IMAT

TIME.

SECRET

SECRET

*RYBAT

BI

---

## Page 58

CLASSIFY TO FILE NO..

#-HEF TO PILE NO.

FILE HIDD

RET. TO BRANCH D

DESTROY D512.

AC": ON

• PISSEm By at

INFO

WH/COG 8

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

FEASGA UP I DUTiELLO

POTAL COPIES

REPRCOUCTION PROHIBITED

ADVANCE COFT

WAIT

TIME

ET RID COPY

SECRET ZAISIZZ CITE MEXICO

CITY 2573

DIRECTOR

TYFIC LITA TIL-S

1. 4

48.2214181

0.101331

10 LLITAMIL-2 HAS NOT HEARD FROM OF. ACUT EUSEBIO (AZCUE)

LOPEZ SINCE L-S LEFT CUBA.

2• ALIHOUCH AZCUE DIFINITELY ANTI CASTRO AND WCULD LOVE

RETURN MEXICO UHERE PRIVIQUSLY SERVED AS CONSU"., HIS PEPSONAL

SITUATION IS COMPLICAIED BY FACE ME ATIACHED TO 25 YEAR OLD

SECOND WIFE, WHO IN NO HURRY LEAVE CUEA, AND THEIR SMALL CHILD.

SECRET

ET

* REQUESTED

AZCUE

STATUS

SE028T

NUNN

---

## Page 59

JU,

08160

0081 Ts

F8T:

RATEL

Jak

WH/COG/FI

5061

27 FEB 1967

TOTAL ECARS

28

SECRET

CABLE SECRITARIAT DISSEMMATION

14 н

Comet:

WH|COG 8

U

D

DEStROY

NO MEDEA

RID COPY

1000:

PILE . VE

lotte and toss Blaci

SECRET

• [MEXICO CITY

INTO: JHAVE,

10 Z

TYPIC MHAPRON

REF: JIWAVE 5743 (IN 08375) (NOT SENT MEXICO CITY)

1. HQS PURSUING LEAD

RECRUITHENT

Is But no

80-572.

CITE DIRECTOR

7856₴

557

25 820

File

ISVOLVING POSSIBLE

• 2.

RigS PLANNING

• ASSESSHENT AND BONA FIDES LETTER FOR USE

C- 10/331

REQUESTI

LITANiL-g

FOR FURTHER

HAVE

BE CONTACTED SOONEST FOR ASSESSENT DATA

1.

WILLIAN V. BROE

NOW LIVING INNAVE AREA.

EUR/IB/CUBA

END OF MESSAGE

(in draft)

in draft)

SECRET

A Laint ODETION DE OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMINED.

C/WH/COG

ATWENTICOTEN

---

## Page 60

TOTAL COPIES" 21

SECRET

5500:65

13

0155065Y 55 P-

O DESTAOY CRETAN 20

*ACH: DIR50TOR

cans: WH8

= RIO COPY

Jars: va

rus, CuM/C8, C1/033,

TO

FEHSOTETIENT

= 2001047035

SECRET CITE DIRECTOR

PRIORIT:

INFO MEXICO CITY CON

?

6-1.

RES MANAGUA 5341 KIN 32:3:

PLEASE BEND FOLLOWING TELEGRAM FO

123/0

SIRIO NO POSER VISIZAR

FABRICA. TOCO ARRICLADO.

SALUDOS. RICARSO.

2. NO NEDO FORMARD AGUILAR CORRESPONDENCE PER PARA 2

PEE.

ABOVE TELEGRAM SHOULO CLOSE CUE REF CASE.

SECRET

EL

51743

• NO

NOTE:

ORIGINATINS OFFICER

COORDINATINS OFFICER

WN/1

RELEASING OFT==33

GHAS Va BROSCAO

ВЕБСАДІЖВ ОГРІСНЯ

SECRET

#PIODICTION AT OTHER INAK THE ISLiNE OFFICE IS PA-MIBITED.

Minion tob

---

## Page 61

CLASSIFY TO FILE NO.

I SEE TO FILE 42.

TILE RID MET. TO ARTED

BESTHAT

"CUSSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

FIASDELEET BOTIFTED

TOTAL COPIES

24

REPRODUCTION FRAISITED

ASTANCE COPY

E RID COPY

FILE It, LitE

SE CP = T 1021052 CITE MEXICO

CITY SISS CEAS3Y ACTING:

DIRECTOE

TYPIC PERIMEN LIT SMIL

1Ee110055

PEF:

10Nes*37303

C-161=31

'ALLIANO SHAMED THE MUSS MEAN TA MUT STUN

VICH PESLIES CONSIDERABL: AMOUNT INTEL, PePTIONARLY DEFIELD

SITIRAL ACTIVITIES, PELATIONS AND ORGANIZATIDE, POUS ELTURAL FIELD

ISSO WE NOILGINANROOO GAISIELE PILA GOTTATGO ATTITIERO SECRIO CE

FOOMER. L-S SPOILT WITH HIM NINE FOLDERS CONTAMING MEMORANDA AND

CORRESPONDENCE DEALING SITE QUE ACTIVIIIESO L-S NOT AVARE dUIS

ACTITITIES MIT IN ONC BUT SSSIGNER KATEL VEGA PEREZ AS DIRECTOR

INTERNAT ICHOL BELATIONS MITHIN COC CEPIAINLY SIGNIFICANT.

2 L-9 SONIN FACES WITH DILEMMA FELDS CUES OR PENAL MEXICO

TO YORK AS AOMINISTRATOR MEYICA! COYPANY WHERE SPOTHER PRESENTLY

EMPLOYED. CONSIDSRABLE PRESSURE BEING PUT ON L-S BY SOCIER AND

VEILTHY MEXICSY DETEFACTO? NO DUMS COMPANY, L-S GETTING ALONE IN

YEARS 152010, ME2LI4 BESINNING FAIL, SUFFERING MENTAL STRAIN, NOW

SINECURE. THIS WILL ALLOY MIM PAIMT. AND DO IMIUGE HE MIS ALWAYS

VANTED TO IN TYILIGHT CARSER. LOS POTUETIC FISUPE ICRY SETVEEN

---

## Page 62

second

LNFOPT AND MEXICAN BENEFECIDS, MISSAROL: EXICIENCE 0259 PESOS

MOTHLY, PBRUMEIS ANERE TRAINED WITH MILITIA AND CUT CAME, DESTATE

ACSINST HIS PITRI PBRUMET SO THROUGH SAME AGRIS, ALTHOUGH L-S

INSELFISHLY SIATED WOULD RET UPM E2?2029 IF LAFORT PROLLY FELT 45

THAT IMPORTANT IT OVIOUS HE PATING HI SFLE OT WEFC! LUFORT.

CO PLA'S MAVE FOL PROFOSAL FOR HIS CONSIDERATIC MIGHI

12 40%.

PETUP PREUMEN WHERE HE WILL HAVE THIRD COUNIRY EMBASSY CONTACT

FOR COMMO CHANNEL, DEPENDENT ACCEFTAICE THIS COUMO ARRAMOIVENT

MONTH PERIOD FOR READUUSIMENT IF NECESSAPY BASIS PRODUCTION.

STATION BELIEVES THAT UNLESS COMMO CHENNEL ARPANGED L-S SUOULO NOT

BE REQUESTSO RETIRI. CO DOUBTS LES BILL GIOEFT OSOVE OFFER SUT

WISHES GIVE MIM OPPORTUMILY MAKE FINAL DECISION AT AVY RATE, L-9

STILL "CLEAN" WILE PROVIDE STATION LITH LIMITED ACCOS PORIMEN

OCTIVITIES MEXI

3. DOCS AND DETAILED NOTES INTEL AND OPE SEZPIEFING BEING

POUCHED MASO PLAY INTPODICE L-D TO FRADYER MORMING 11 NOW.

SECRET

5T

---

## Page 63

snores Dies Dus.

CLASSIFY TO

FILE NO.

FILE

53.

FILE RIDD

HET. TO BRANCH O

CUSSIFIED MESSAGE BroTaL POPIES

SECRET

PERSCNNUAUT RSTIFIES

REPRODUCTION PRSMIBITED

Cc7091S550 343

TN%S

19H/c8

DO RID COPY

FILE VR, LOHS, CIOS,

ADiANCE COPY

UMIT

TEREN

SECRET 0817127 CITE MEXICO CITY 9158 (EASBY ACTING)

BHuras:: 35292

DIRECIOR

TYPIC

(6-101331)

SMKYOCK CONTACTED LITAMIL-S NORNING & NOV. MEETING SCHEDULED

FOR EVENING 8 NOV•

SECRET

SECRET

g 119+

file

2

---

## Page 64

:...d

2E5E:05 E033 22^

ee=.is:

FrinE.

2A0 :ADER

COISTROY ENTILAN TO -

i DRASCH

830 2250:08

J RIC COPY

INFO: VA

19530

7

7

SECREE CHEORIES

INTERATE NEXICO CITY 107O PRIORE

DYVOG P3.U1ES LIRAVINE

REF NCKICO CITY S:22

RaS ParaRS NOT üSE

AV

8508 FRrs23)

LAS

CE:STAYED IR-JAYLINE SY 18 DAYS AND SINCE NEGOTER IDIS STI

TARIUE PLACE EE-KESU 22 ING AND FOREION CINISTRY, HA QUARTERS

SELIEVES PREFERARLE ACCORA PISA ¿THICAG ALTIORITIES SRGAKISS

OST NEGOTIATIONS AD CORSINO LEG OU FRICIPIGATELYO MLA-TER

CAS STATION CAX ATTETE, ARRANGE L-È EXTENSION AS SUSCESTIO PARA

3ÃDFO SUGGEST MED FETTRER ACTION IN ASSYRUCE PEDANG ARRIVAR

SArYOC% "ICad

6÷0V.

SICA

COORSIGAT-DÁ CEPICCAS

HELEADING REGNER

An 0as e 7-95a 2094

REPRODUCTION ST

OTMZA

THAN INE SSUING OFFICE S PAGANITES

ANTAERTICATHG

##FAGIA

4000 18.

---

## Page 65

-=---.

20?41

citica.

• FLE RID

DINGER

I DO INStE

DELEINES FOR tE

ISCENEY.

O DESTROY DIRETURATO -

• BAHNCH

= 2.222:23

that:

• AID COPY

InFO: Va

-- IN: ANO TIME FILESI

LET GREFERATE RUNDERI

CITE DIRECTOR

HI COFFENT: ANi CAVE EACHCROUND DHSUOGISEEUL ARTERPIS DOLLACT

LITATI-D TOUCH LITAGE -3 AND SUGGESTEO USE LITERPO-3&0

NCTE: CHIONATING OFFICER

COCROINATING CFF-COR

RELEASING OFFICE

FOR LILIAN VEROE CAUS

COORDINATINE SEE CERS

SECRET

REPRODUCTION AT GINER IMAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PAGHIBITIO.

RUTAL-TIGATING

---

## Page 66

CLOSEIDE TO FILE SO.

5599058 D:s6.

ciess ta. ha 2=

•LASSIFIES WESSACE

SECRET

ASIN/WHAT NOTIFIES

TEAL COPIES 1

12d 22?

LONS

LY RID COPY

1716

FEE, WHICE, esle, clops. Gules

FEPTICLCTION

TIME

03151.

SECRET :5035Z CITE MEXICO CITY >122

fi.n..e

PRIORITY DIRECTUR INFO PRIORITY UMRAVE ANTIC: PINGYEAD INFO

32401

NIGHT ACTION

DYVOUR PERURE:

49193

CiVET

F27: DIRECIOi-

_IT

-17 HOUSERNO, STATION BEGAN ATTaIPIS

1-133

16-4

MIL-7 INITIAL MISPIS

psid

ÜNSUCESSFUL BUT LITAIL-T

ISTURNED LITAIL-S C 2 NOV INAT LITANIL-S WISHED SEE HIM LECENTLY.

LITANIL-S AGAIN AIZEIPTING CUNTACT LITANIL-S.

2. IHROUGH LITAÑIL-7, STATION ANARE THAI GOSZANACION FAS

NOT

SEANIED PERMISSION LITAMIL-S REMAIN IN MEXICO FOR IHREE MONTE

PERICO REGUESTED. PERUNEN DIPLOINTS DOLY ALLOWED LE DAY STAY

MEXICO ON IDY WITHOUT REGUESIING PERNISSION FOR LONGER STAY

FROM GOSERRACIOR. LITAIL -3 CLAINS CA: APRANGE FOR LONGER STAY

TROUGH CONTACTS IN FOREIGN MINISTRY AND HAS TOLD LITAMIL-TIO

INFORY LITAMIL-S OF SANE. LITAMIL-9 SITUATION CHITICAL FROG

POINT

OF OVERSTAYING I6 DAY LIMIT BUT NEGUIZATICNS STILL TAKING PLACE

ECTUSSA LIRING AND FOREIGN MINISTRY.

SCRET

---

## Page 67

THE 2 REXICO ENDY SIZES FER ET

SECRET

3. IF HAS CONÇLAS, LITZIPCO3 CAN DE REQUESTED AUTHC?IZE

LITHAIL-S EXTENSICIL PERILT STAY MEXICO. IN ABSENCE CURTIS, BENADUY

WOULD CONTACT

LITE PO-8. THIS WOULD MEAN LITEMP0-8 AND PROBABLY

LIRAMA WOULD THEN EL AWARE LITANIL-S AFFILIATION WOFACT.

ADVISE SOONEST. ACTION COULD BE COVERED BY LITATIL-3 CLAMING HE

ARRANGED EXTENSION.

4 RESERVATIONS CONFIRYED AT GENEVE FOR SHRYOCK.

5. WILL ADVISE ANY ADDITIONAL DEVELOPHENTS LITAMIL-9

SITUATIO:.

SECRET

BT

SECRET

---

## Page 68

$011

CHIT:

BATE: 3 NOUGG

01880 BY

DIRECTOD

O FILE DO

I SEE

ONS WORK

O PILE IN LS TILI AS.

9392 61956

OTAL COPIE

SECRET

*BUTING

5

6

8

D RID COPY

INFO: VA

- TOATE ASE TUT TILEDY

? 2? 137 CITE DIRECTOR

49415

SECRET CITE DIRECTOR

PRIORITY CANAGLA INTO PRICTTY UNAUE FOR THINYTAD. MEXTOR

DYVOUR PERUMEN LIRAVINE LITA"IL

NET MANAGUA 5343

(1431353)

FYI HEE PLANNING

WITH CONCURE

SHRYOCK MEXICO CITY 6 NOVE 33R 455-

101331

AND

IMPLEMENT EFFORTS EST-BLISH CONTACT

TAKE NO ACTION REF CASE.

SECRET

REQUEST BACHER

CITY

7.

NOTE:

ORIGINATZNS OFFICER.

COORDINAZING OFFICER

RELEASING CFFICER

iN/:

#H/C

(TELECCORD) WH/2M

FOR WILLIAM V. BESE CAHO

BELFASTE OFFICER

offictay

SECRET

for tentions there ot

REPRODUCTION AT

OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OBFICE IS @ROMIDITED.

AHTNE

16 A THA

---

## Page 69

O FILE HID

MESSAGE FCEM

TOTAL COPIES 7 3

S-E-C-P-I-T

WANT:

BATE::

WH/1

3 NOV 66

I•LE IN CO FILE NO.

O DESTINY O RETURN TO SANCH

sor:

DJ RID COPY

1950: 7#

elen

TUATE THE TIME VICEST

CITE DIRECTOR

41198)

TALFLE

SEE, NOMBENT

49183

SECRE A CHE DIMELIUM

PRIORITY MEXICO CITY INFO UMWAVE (FOR FRADYER)

DYVOUR PERUMEN LIRAVINF

REF A MANAGUA 5840 (BEING RELAYED)

31355

3 TEGUCIGALPA 6753 (BEING RELAYEDS S45

1 PER FRADYER CONVERSATIONS HQS AND WITH CONCURRENCE MEXICO

CITY STATION, CLYDE N SHRYOCK (P) PLANS ARRIVE MEXICO CITY 6

NOVEMBER 1966 BY EAL FLIGHT 905. NO NEED MEET BUT WOULD APPRECIATE

RESERVAIIONS MADE IN TRUE NAME AI GENUI OR SIRILAR HOTEL.

2. PURPOSE TRIP REVIEW AND IMPLEMEDI EFFORIS REESTABLISH

1-101331.

CONTACT LLITAMIL-9 WITH STATION AND FRACYER (WHO HOLDING RESERVATIONS

RETURN MEXIGO

CITY NIGHT A NOVEMBER FRUM MIAMI•

r.::

SECRET

is: 9005

AUtHE

TION

SiE-C-R-E-T

OTHER THAN THE BSVINO OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

---

## Page 70

0018:

MESSAGE FORM

TOTAL COSINI:

S-E-C-R-E=T

ROUTENI

D FILE ND

0 s0 m88

w8s& фh2

8

DISBEAL WY

FACE: DIRECTOR

O BENTIOT DACTURE TO

FRANCH

O RID COPY

aFe: va

" FILE

TELABETFICATIONT

A (DATE AND TIME FILEDS

CITE DIRECTOR

TE LITED

SARFERENCE NUMBER»

49183

тоГ

WH/ COMMENTS:

A• LITAIIL-17 (BROINER LILAMIL-DA MOREU DANNER I

AND

ASKED MEXICO CITY FOR LATEST ON LITAMIL~9

ACCOMMODATION ADDRESS FOR

LITAMIL- 17

MOTE:

ORIGINATING OFFICER

COORDINATING OFFICER

BI

RELEASING OFFICER

IN H/ 1

(DRAFT) WA/CIFI

FOR WH/C/MO

(DRAFTY

FOR WILLIAM V BROE C/WHD

CLEARING OFFICEN

COOPOrATIE A9FIC8aS

S-E-GoR-E-T

#@PRODUCTION

•T OTHER

THAN THE LISUING

ANTRERTICATNE

€ #54 #4,

ITED.

---

## Page 71

CLASSIFY TO FILE DO..

#-REE TO FILE MA..

PILE RIDD MET. TO NONCH D

BETTROY D sIe.

хаттом

By 15

ISFO

ШН 2

& RID COPY

ILE, NB, WH/C8, ciloes,

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

PERSCE/NOT NOTIFIES

ATTAL COPIES

REPRODUCTICN PROHIBITED

ABYANCE CEPT

TIME

3 NO. Xia

SECRET 0218152 CITE

MEXICO CITY,

INFO DIRECTOR

PERMENTIn

113321

KLITAMIL 17/PHONED BANKER FROM SAI PEDRO SULA,

HUNDURAS, 3I OCTOGER USING ALIAS AND INTIOCENT BUSINESS

PHRASEOLOGY. SAID WISHED HAVE BARKER VISIT HIM IN SAN

PEDRO SULA BEFORE 28 NOVEMBER

TOR SECURITY REASONS DID

161331

NOT MENTION ANYTHING ABOUT LLITAMIL-9•

2. BARKER TENTATIVELY PLANS STOP-OVER TEGUCIGALPA EM

ROUTE BACK FROM ANNUAL COS MEETINGS PROBABLY ABOUT 14 NOV•

WILL ASK L-17 IO FLY THERE FOR MEET. MEXI PLS ADVISE

LATEST ON L-9 AND WHAT INSTRUCIIONS IF ANY WISH BARKER TO

PASS TO L-17

3.

L-17 IS BROTHER OF L-9 WHO AGENT

RESIDING IN PERUMEN AND EXPECTED OUT SOON. PLEASE CABLE TO

TO WHICH L-IT COULD

SEND LETTER CONFIRMING MEETING PLANS.

SECRET

BT

---

## Page 72

15928s Dres Da.

CLASSIFY TO JILE 1S..

I-ACO TO PILE DO.

TRUE MIND HET. TO BAANCE O

5257708 O$16.

Don By2

AÇISE

CLASCIFIED NESSAGE

SECRET

PERSON LOIT BETIFIES

TOTAL COPIIS

33

REPECOUCT ION PROMISITES

ADVAACE COPY

WAIT

TIME

& RID COPY

U

FIE, VIC, EIR 8, WH 8, 0T/2R5, 1

CT/3A FESTATE

-=.

31 Aus E6 IN 86883

SECRET 31123TZ, CITE

9216

DIRECTOR INFO YEXICO CITY, JENAVE

TYPIC MHAPRON LITAMIL ASCRASA

DEE PIOE:

C8. 23229

-s."i

7-26.511

1. (AMCRASH I MET 3A AUG. FLI DEPARTURE FROM HAVAJA DELAYED TO

SOLVE EXCHANGE PROBLEMS OF FRENCH INVITEES RETURNING TO THEIR

COUNTRY®

4:19

2. AYCRASH I SAID LITAMIL 9 COCO FRIEND BUT DOES VOT HAVE FRE-

QUENT INTIMATE CONTACT. CONTACT IS NATURAL AND THEY FAVE VISITED

EACH OTHERS HOMES ON PURELY FRISMOLY BASIS. AMCRASH I SAW LITAMIL S

AT AIRPORT JUSI SEFORE DEPAPTURE IHIS TRIP, PUPELY ACCIDENTAL. CAN

COUTACT LITAMIL 9 AT ANY TIME WITHOUT RAISING ANT SUSPICIONS.

3... AMCRASH I IN ANSVER TO QUESTION ESTIMATED LITAXIL 9 MOTIVA-

TION AND SUPPOPT OF SOVT AS UNENIHUSIASTIC AND FOR SURVIVAL ONLY.

BELIEVES LITABIL SWORKING IN FOREIGN MINISTRY CONNECIED WITH

CULTURAL AFFAIRS.

4• MADRID BELIEVES OPEN CODE PLUS SW WITH DEVELOPYEST INSTRUC-

TIONS IN 300K AS SUGGESTED IN DIRECTOR 25242 EXPOSES 3OIH ANCRASH

AND LITAMIL 9 TO UNNECESSARY DANGER. AS LITAMIL 9 IS UNKNOWN QUAN-

TITY SINCE HIS RETURN TO CUBA WE WISH GIVE MAXIMUM PROTECTION TO

---

## Page 73

CLASSIFY TO FILE MO.

I-DES TO FILE NO.

FILE HIDD

DESTROY D SIE.

thest

i resente

1776

ELISSIFIED MESSAGE 3

"OTAL COPIES

27

SECRET

REPROCLET ION PA? *IBITED

& RID COPY

AÑYANCE COPY

I550ES

SECRET 291945Z CITE MEXICO CITY 8388

DIPECTOR, UPVAVE,

TYPIC

87944

jail

29 Ja E6466598

IMAMTNA AMALTA

(FEREIRAS MARRERO, ADDRESS ISIDORO QUINTANA 153, ALDARO, HAVANA,

TO COXE TO MEXICO CITY TO VISIT SICK BROTHER COCIOR OSCAR

(FEREIRA) MARRERO, OWNER OF CLINICAL LABORATORY, ADAMINA KILL

BE RETURNING CUSA ABOUT 18 AUGUST. PLANS EXIT CUBA ASI PUS SE

REFUGEE LATER.

2• ADAMINA IS GOOD FRIEND OF CONCHITA FERNANDEZ

(281-332858) OFFICE MANAGER AT INRA BECAUSE OF THIS

10133

FRIENDSHIP SHE KNOWS LITAMIL -S

I-3 HAS SSEN COACHEDTO

CAREFULLY ELICIT INFORMATION FROM ADAMINA ON L-S, SHOVING NO

UNDUS INTEREST. NAME WILL BE INCLUDED WITH THOSE OF CIFER

MUTUAL ACQUAINIANCES. HOPE FIND OUT JUST WHAT L-9 DOING.

HOW HE IS, IF AND WHEN FE PLANNING SOME OUT, WHAT HIS

OSTENSIBLE POLITICAL LEASINGS ETC.

3. ACCORDING ADAMINA CONCHITA FERNANDEZ HAS LOST MUCH

INFLUENCE IN REGIME.

4. APPRECIAIE TRACES ADAMINA.

SECRET

BI

---

## Page 74

SECRET

SET

INSTRUCTION SHEET

ROPEDISE

BODILES

SPECIAL

INSUBEY

19 J46 1955

EXPEDITE +81

B441 SEE

C-101331

30 818

-JUERT NAME

8÷EA

LSE

ISSUE OFERATIGAAL APPROVAL

BEQUEST SHIER LIST

ISSUE PIGVISIONAL OPERATICHAL APPRIALL

REGGEST RESULTS SA/O DOSSIER NEVIIN

EXTENO FOA FOR

DAYS LATIL

DEVIEE FI'D COLLATERAL INFORMATINA

"RIASTATE FOA FOR

DAYS UNTIL

REQUEST

BISULTS

IS TERROGATION

TECHHICAL

F*C*

FERNAND ATTACHUENT TO DIVISION

FEVIER SECURITY CAFICE REPORT AT CAVGA

FORBARS TO

ITRC+OEHT

REVIES SECURITY CFFICE CONCURRENT MEMO AT CA/DA

CANCEL FER

DIVISION MENO DATED.

170 tasice

Dirision)

соменейон з

19 JAN

1906 VIER AT C1/04

CANCEL

в 849

checked below or i sars)

I6PI09S89S69S98

REQUEST REVIES OF

ATPACHED REFERLAIES

SOVISE CLIOR OF

MATURE AND

SIGRIFICARCE

FECLEST RA

TRACES

FILE

REQUEST OPERATIONIL ANS DIVISION IIIIES

/

TICHLE

DEQUEST FIELD TRICES

NOTICE

SECOND

MEGUEST

OTHER

•*: 11

FOA ESPIRES

MAS

LEASE SUBMIT ROG II.

TEEN IADICATIS, DOS MILL BE RUTIMATICALLY CASCELLES

1T, BITHIN 30 JATI, NO FURTHER INTEREST IN SUBJECT

•TALLEST TE SEESOT PES EE AS REGUIN LADER ESE NO. IONS DA SO MAGICATE NOT FURTRER INTEREST 10

FOR THE -PERATIONAL USE OF

CATAINING

APPROVAL

REMARKS

Co? luna

dee M/R- 0 19 28 966

D

FORN

7. €1

707

SECRET

$28Đ

---

## Page 75

SECRET

*ATE

REQUEST FOR IMFORMATION AND REYIEW

TO:

10 Jannasy 1966

с по.

Jab

FROM: CHREE, C=/CA

Is/ Junced 2. =com

C - 101332

SUBJECT:

Bi ERDER THAT FUFTHER CCASIDERATION NAY BE

HIT YOU FURNISH THIS OFFICE THE IAFORVATION CHECKED BELOR.

GIVEN YOUR REQUEST FOR APPROVAL

THIS CASE,

OR REVIEN INFOENATIDE IS INDICATED.

IT IS FEWESTED

STAFF'S DOSSIEE

DENIER

PESE TRACES

RAINBE 399

D1V15169

TECHHICAL INTERDUGAT I39

SECOND

Le.Y.

SEC.

OFF.

DENIES CE FEI

REPORT AT CLIZE

REVIE#

DA ATTACHES RIFERESCE

C"HERS (See. Remarks;

AT CI/ON

MEMO AT CX

BEWIA&S:

Plear cone to CI/dA to discuss your request of 16 December 1565.

POA

expired 3 Jamary I966

in me ca that they were inder the imprission thry cout

PiA. The other if this thicking was forted ant to kev. He is grengt

# ONE

*-€• 889

SECRET

$201

---

## Page 76

SET CE

5=4

INSTRUCTION SHEET

CAPEDITE

IADICES

SPECIAL

=aTE

•COVERT NAME

INECK

SECRET

19 Jieak6

FECTTE 63E

INDICES

GR5D

***A:

-161331

DATE

OPERATI JAEL

APROVAL

ISSUE PROVISIONAL CPERATIONEL RESPIGAL

ERTERO POA FOR

GAYS USTIL

"ELESTATE POA FOR

DAYS UATIL

SEARARO ATTACHHIST TO DIVISIOT

FERNARO TO

SECURITY OFFICE

CARIEL PER

MENO CATED

(te motice

to tirision)

Me Erected belon

ee reparis.

FEDIEST RI TRACES

FEDIEST OPERATIONEL AND

TRICES

FEZUEST FIELD TORCES

FEDIEST

'SCA EXSIDEO.

6 €

REQUEST GARES LIST

REJUEST RISULTS FI'D DOSSIER REXICO

SENIER FI'I CCLLATEZAL BAFORNATIN

REGUEST BESULES

TEC-MICAL

INTERRIGATROS E#CA

REVIER SEC-RITY GFFICE REAGRT ET CH.OR

RESTES SECURITY CFFICE CONCURRENT MEMO AT CA/DA

REGUEST

REVIEN

OF ATTACHED REFERINCE=

ROFISE ClICA

CF

NATIRE AND SIGAIFICRACE

FILE

MICALE

¡OTICE

26 7ek66

freest

SECSAX

#f HAE

ORSO NOTICE TO DIVISION

-FA¡LURE TO SUEMIT PRO II AS DECUITIO UNDES CS! SO, IO-I GE TO ¡NDIÇATE GUT FUMIMER BATEREST IS CATAIMING

FOR THE OPERATIDRAL USE OF SUBJECT-

7 16 8e0 1965.

2.700

$- 64.707

SECRET

---

## Page 77

SECRET

CATE

REQUEST FOR INFORNATION AND REVIEN

21 Degesber 1905

Jab

TO:

C 80.

C - 202332

FROM: C2I2Z, CI/CA

/s/ Ediar? =. Browa

IN CFOER

THAT FURTHER

THAT

YOU FLENISH

CORSIDERATI,#

THIS EFFICE

SUBJECT:

GIVEN

TRACES

PARCES

OREFATIONAL AND DISIS:IR TRACES

RESULTS OF TECHMICAL INTERROGATIDS

SHE MISH

YOuR

REQUEST FOR APPROVAL

BELOW.

OR REVIEW ONFORMITTEN AS SEDICATES.

IS FECUESTED

REVIER 2E STAFF'O BOSSIER

REVIER OF ETAFFID ELLATIONI

INFORMATID

REVIEW OF SECURITY OFF. FIOIRT AT CLIDA

REVIEN OF SEC. OFF. CONCIDENCE MEMO AT CIEN

REVISE OF FBI REPORT AT ENGA

OTHERS (See Remarks)

REMARAI:

PLORD CoRE to CI/GA tO disaDE yoUr request Of 16 December 1065.

889

SECRET

---

1201

---

## Page 78

SECRET

INSTRUCTION SHEET

¿ATE

IAJI CES

15833166

21 D=- 1655

IRPESITE FBI

SESIGES

5850

RatE No.

0-10133)

CHECK

LIE

ISSUE OPERATIONAL AARAGUAL

ISSUE PROVISPITAL SATHATIONAL APFHOVAL

EXTESS POR FOR

IXTS UNTIL

¿ELASTATE POA 50E

JAYS MATIL

FIXHAFO ATTRINNER: "1 JIUISION

FERBERO TO

SECURITY OFFICE

CRACEL PER

DINASINO MEMO DATED

(ãe motice

iPeason

checked beige.

FECLEST RI ISICES

REQUEST OPERATIONE AND

TRACES

BEQUEST FIELD TEREI

EEGLEST

REQUEST FREEN LIST

PÉGUEST RESULTS 5'/D SOSSIER REVIER

FEVIEN FI'D COLLATERAL INFORMATIOS

#EQUEST RESULTS

TECHNICAL

INTERROGATION FROM

/ 11785887

FEVIE# SECURITY EFFICE HEPORT AT II/DI

BEVIEW SECURITY CFFICE CONCURRENT MINE AT CRISA

REVIEW AT L'IDA

HE741

ADVISE CI/DA OF RATURE END

SIGNIFICANCE

None aff

FICKLE 21 Taue

#OTICE

SEENAD

8158t

SRSD BOTICE TO DIVISION

PLEASE SUBMIT

$0O 18- IF, MITMIN JO DAYS. AD FURTHER INTEREST IN SUBJECT

MAS BEEN INDICATE:. POÀ MILL dE L-TOMATIIALLY

CANCELLES.

•FAILUTE TO INET!"

09c !!

F3R THE OPERATIDIE USE OF SUBJECT.

RE:UIPED INDER CS! ND. 1J-S DE TO INDICATE ANY FURTHER ISTEREST

1A TOTAINING APPROVAL

HEUSERS

707

SECRET

---

## Page 79

__ UNCLASSIFIED

STERNAL

ISE ONLY

D CO* DENTIAL

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

O SECRET

FROM.

C/TH/1

EITENSICTI I NO

4506

DATE

16 December 1965

10: Ofor deserte

903-2637205g)

DATE

RECEIVED

FORMATES

FICER

2.

PH/1/Stewart

DC /WH/1

3.

nife of

CI/OA

10.

12.

15.

610 USED

EDITOM

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 80

MEMORANDUM FOR: C/CI/OA

SUBJECT

: Operational Approval for LITAMIL 9

The Provisional Operational Approval for LITAMIL9

(C-101331) is due to expire 8 January 1965.

In discussions with the field case officer for this

operation, wH/l/Mexico has found that there is to way to

when, or whether, LITAVIL9 vill again leave Cuba.

For reasons of

personal security, LITAXIl-9 has not been

able to junction as a repuiting sumed simo it Istant to

early March 1965.

LITAMIL-17,

and reports fron occasional Cuban official travelers transiting

Mexico indicate that LITAVIL-9 is well and is employed by the

National Cultural Council.

3.

LITAXIL-9 is not an inactive agent.

The Station

has recently proposed that his

salary cease accumulating

ag of 30 June 1966.

If and when be again manages to leave

Cuba, he will be contacted and a full assessmeit of his

future usefulness will be nade.

Owing to the

fact that hig

sister-in-law is a secretary to Fidel Castro it is expected

that he will be a valuable

for

an initial debriefing period.

erice of intertion, at let

be appreciated if the Pod on LITaNIl-g

could be extended for six months.

If at the end of

time he has not left Cuba, it will be proposed that thes

POA be allowed to expire.

355

Kaifman

C/wa/1

---

## Page 81

antes dul no

CLASSIF9 TO DILE DE..

#-RÃF TO FILE NO.

DESTRON DIE.

7 ROM

MEXICO

ACTIDA

655.+8

USSIFIED MESSIGS

SECRET

Pescan solito

ORM COPY

ADIARGE COFT

INST

sino, soid, electos, abeles.

SECPEIZi:Es:

PRIGRITY DIP INGO LAVE CIE EXI 4731

FERUSEl

L1S65056450

FEF: DIR 44181 115 25191

1à FOLICE PAIS EARLY MORMINO 18 SEP SERTEO THO SLE-MACHINEGIRS

ALS ONE AUTORITIC DISTOL, GARCIA OFRESTRO, QUESTIGNES 6Y FISCAL

POLICE, CONSIGNED TO GOESRSACION ENICH CONSIDERIMO DEFORTINE RIM

TO CUBA.

POLICE ERARCH FOORLE DONE.

LARGE BOX OF "CHITE POLDER" VAS HASTED DOL DRAIN AFIER POLIOS

LEFT, DOCUMENIS RIO PHOTOS DURULO FOR HOURSO QUANTITY OF DYNAMITÉ •

REMOVED FROL FREMISES.

3. OU 20 SEP STATION PALIANEO LISI GUESTICOS TO SE POSEC

IO GARCIA: EXPECI ANSOERS SCON. SUSU EFPARENTLY SEZEL SEINO VELD

INCOMMUNICADO.

4. TARGET STUDY WAS INFONUAL STATICH STUDY, NOE SENT TO HOS.

AEXI 4770 WAS LASA CORFESPOLE:

C. 95575

15,82

LIE VOY AND IR REFORIS BY

ti: 2-31

SINCE TREN. AIMOLET HAD LITANIL-

• DO SPESIAL REPOR.

SEP S4.

5.

11470.

CORRECT 201 NOTES

CHAD PICKED UP CHER HUMESF

FROM

SECRET

12

23

SE: 335

---

## Page 82

SECRET

6. WILL-VEEP HOS REVISEU

ON CASE 10 DATE:

116-5674327-3

SO FUBLICilY

CF N

4731 44131 2514

i3 SEP

GARCIA GOBERNACICS Z& CRRCIS HOT SENT

HQS 4770 LIENOS LIIAMS -ELITAMI-3 LITAMI -9 69221 11470

,9 87376:856

75

SECRET

LEVIZÄNENTA

---

## Page 83

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chie:

N5,71625920

SECRET

PROVISIONAL OPERATIONAL AFPROVAL

NUMBER

SURJEET

-9 = 101331

RE: BROICE:

Your Menorandus, Dated

29 April 1965

A Provisic..al Operational Approval is grantes for the use of this Subject

as set forth below.

A Provisional Operational Approval issued or CI Staff Erants the sare

authority, on a temporary basis, ich the use of an individual as the authority

granted in an Operational Approval iness otbervise specifiel by CI/CA.

based, however, only on preliminary file checis and investigation and is sub-

ject to & furtrer final review wien all investigation is completed.

For use as

a reporting source from vithin Cuba.

To process the Operational Approval, full information (ccupleted PRQ

Parts I and II) must be submitted as soon as possible and not later than six

(6) months froe this date.

An Operational Approval will follow when all

triestigation is completed and upon the receipt of satisfactory PRO Parts I

and II. Cancellation must be requested if use ci Subject by interested Di-

visions ceases.

AFPROVAL

CI/OPERATIONAL APPROVAL AXD SUPPORT DIVISION

SECRET

DATE

8 July 1965

1 *1

---

## Page 84

INSTRUCTICN SHEET

RRPRGI44

IRDICES

• SECRET

„STE

8 JUL 1965

ASEDITE SEI

MICE:

AREA

0-10/331

ЗАТЕ

F58

COVERT SINE

CHECK

ISILE

UFEHATLUNAL PURECE

ISSLE PESVISIONAL OPCRATIINAL

APPROVAL

ENTERO FOA FOR

DAYS LATIL

FESOSTATE POA FOR.

JAYS LETIL

FORMARL ATTACHMENT TO

01635109

FOFDARO TO

SECURITY OFFICE

CASSEL FER

DIVISION

NES. SATED

fio norico

lo Division)

ione ched booke defeston

sanarts)

REQUEST RI TRACES

RESSEST OPERATIONAL AND IIVISIOS JRACES

REZUEST FIELD TRACES

MESUEST

REQUEST GAELE LIST

REG-EST RESULTS FI/D COSSIED DEGIES

REVIER FI'E GOGLATERAL INFINIT

RECLEST RESILTS TECHNICAL

INTERROGATICO FOCH

38916E

3201980€

REVIEO SECURITY OFFICE RERIOT ET CIIDA

REVIEN

SECUSITY OFFICE COACURHENT MEND AT

REVIEN AT CHIER

LERLETTER

REQUEST MENTER OF ATTACNEO REFERENCE.

ADVISE CI/ES CE NATURE ASO SIGTIFICANCE

ff'' att.

TICKLE

MOTICE

*185T

0. 126

OTHER

POI EXPIREO

INDICATED,

алАд? дионі! /сідеВісВірсТа ВАтасТи Галіма

INTEREST lA SUBJEET

PEA MILL BE AUTOMATICILLE CANCELLED.

•¡ABLURE TO SUOMIT PSO ii

#5 HEGUIREO URLIA ESE NO, 8O-S DE TO INDICATE EST FURTHER LATERESE IN CERAIALE

di prosta

FCO THE

OFERATIONAL

USE ZE

SUBJECT.

TG: WH/I

SECRET

0A11

---

## Page 85

UNCLASSIFIED

*ITERNAL

dE ONLY

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

CON "TENTIAL

SECRET

SUBJECT: (Optional)

WH/1/R.E. Scutt

10: lOtteer designation, rosen rumber, and

buddingl

1.

WH/1

2.

3.

.

EXTENSION

4507

100.

DATE

19 April 1965

DATE

RECINO FORMARDED

1918

OFfICER'S

INITIALS

do mison.

C/CI/OA

20 APS ^965

7.

10.

I 8.

12.

13.

14.

8S.

PORM

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 86

SECRET

19 April 1965

MENORA NDUM FOR: C/CI/OA

SUBJECT

:

Operational Approval for LITAJIL-9

1. An Operational Approval is requested for LITAUIL9,

1959 that LITAUIL-9 was a Corunist, since this course of

action would unnecessarily dras attention of this officer

to our interest in LITAMIL9.

Wil/l has concurred in this

decision, and considers that this unevaluated derogatory

1==c==-t102 == LITANIED 1= 2a0 sutrolaned by 2io zendea

mance record.

2.

Realizing the risk involved in working with any

Cuban national, WH/1 feels that LITAJIL9's excellent record

of cooperation, plus his acceptance of the idea of continued

cooperation in a denicd area favor consideration of an

Operational Approval.

Additionally, we have had audio

coverage through the telephone in LITANILg's office for

the past two yeals or more, and during this time the Station

has used the installation for spot checking his information,

and is satisfied that there are no reasons to question his

veracity and security or suspect that he is under control

of the Cuban service.

Attached for your review are several contact

reports of LITAMIL9,

as requested by dir. Lally.

prompt return will be appreciated.

This office will be

pleased

to cooperate in any further review of this case

which will facilitate the OA.

Whylishine

chiếi

Kaufman

wH/1

Attachments:

Reports of LITANIL 9

SECRET

---

## Page 87

CLASSIFIED NESSAGE

SECRET

PERSON/UIT NOTIFIED

TOTAL COPIES

>0

570:7

1E00T

ON PPOHIRITED

FRChe

ACTION

MEXICO GiLY

TuFO

WH8

VR. FILE DOP WH/C 8

ADVANCE COPY

LAIT

TENE

SLOTTES

ECRET 151745Z

DIR CITE MEXI 2777

PBRUMEN

10133)

66-

1N 22918

SECRET

CFN

SECRET

File

JK 18 HA. 285

13 Afiil'65

=R. Scutt. WH/. says ulyeif thes agreed i wask for techine

for POA/cA.

Subj. o hatlias, k-17, to lie aised as cours channel. Foing fincessed.

---

## Page 88

To 51/ 15

Lowers

ABRASONS

S: F80.:0

FAG'S

2a5 3 30/

T726

SECRE!

AIRSON/UNIT NOTIFIES

SVANCE COF

TISSUES

E SLOTI ES

UY

SECRET 042353Z

DIR CITE MEXI 2487

File

8 FEB 150

AQUATIC PERUMEN

REF *EXI 2235 (N 63870) 331

5768N7 4047

TIDHEN PARINEN INRASSY AND DIGCEN

IN MUSIC ROOM WHICH LITANIL-S REPORIS IS USED BY ABASSADER FOR

CLOSED DOOR SESSIOUS WITH IMPORTANT VISITORS. TRANSMITIER WORKING

WELL AND RESPONDS TO ON/OFF SWITCHING FROM LIONION BASE. LIONION 1

CONE LEGING AND RECORDING TAXE. FIRST TAPE RECORDED CONVERSATION

BY AUBASSADOR AND MONDRAGON I! WHICH THEY DISCUSS FURTHER UPHOLSTERY

WORK BY MONDRAGON WHO NOW HAS SEVERAL SMALL CHAIRS IN SHOP TO

3E RECOVERED PRELIMINARY STATION DETERMINATION IS THAT T-ASE

DO NOT VARRANT BUSGING AS WILL PROBABLY BE PUT IN SAME ROSM

•20 STATION CLOSELY MONITORING EMBASSY/NONDRASON NEGOTZAIIONS.

FEEL: LIKELY HE WILL RECEIVE ADDITIONAL BUSINESS IMUS ENABLINE STATION

MAKE ACDITIONAL TECH PENETRATIONS•

SECRET

SSCRET

---

## Page 89

OiG:

MESSICE FORMI

C/ TT/ SA/CI

DIT :

6«71

3 NO INSSE

9SEE0T

2

3

1 203 1e6€-

I FLE IN IS RENO. 201-263919

TO : C-- BRUSSEIS PARIS

F20 DIRECTOR

CONE:

INFO:

70

WH/SA 8

210NTE MENDAD DIX

508, Cl, CI/SES, C1/0A, Fl, F1/1987 2, dE 6, W4 70 VR

OPIA

ОРІЗІ

ROUTINE

BRES PARI

MEXI

CITE DiR

TYPIC LICOZE

Cify in sack. fie.

ROUTING

5

6

7

8

OF RATIONAS Z

INMEDIATE

295T0

: D19 JU!

I LIOOZE CASE REVEWED TAOROUCELY BISERYOCK WEO HANDLED

Li NEXT. SERYOCK CONZIENTS HOLLOW: LIOOZE WAS DISFICULT TO

HANDLE BECAUSE WHILE TRUTHEUL IN ANSWER TO ANY SPECIFIC QUESTION

LE SELDOM ELISORATED, SELDOM VOLUNTZERED INFORIATION AND

GENERALLY WAS RELUCTANT TO FURVISE INFO WHICH DO NOT CONCERT E

PEOPLE WECH DE CONSEDRED CONSIES.

2. REVIEV ESTABLISTES THAT LIOOZE AT TIVE WHEN EE SAW E

1:133;

FERVINDO AVILA AT RAZAVA AIRPORT SENT MESSAGE TEROUGH LITANI -9

TO AMBASSADOR ANTOITO PORTLONDO TEAT AVILA WAS AY AMERICAN ACENT.

THIS INFO CASE FROM LITAMIL-9 WED IS CONSIDERED COMPLETELY E

RELIABLE. CRLYTING MEVORY LAPSE ON PART OF LIOOZE AS RESULTS

OF PASSAGE OE TIVE AND PSYCHLATRIC DIFFICULTIES, IT STILL IS

DIFFICULT TO BELIEVE TIAT HE DID NOT RECALL ABOVE WHEN DISCUSSING

AVILA CASE. DO NOT PEPEAT NOT RECOMMEND STOCKWOOD VENTIONING

ABOVE

CONTINUED

aprices.

19-2

• COORDINATIRE OPPICAR!

SECRET

GROUPE

declassilications :

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBTEED.

AUTHENTICATiNG

OFFICER

Copy Na

---

## Page 90

Cris

,WNT

EX:

Bar:

15

FROk

CONF

MESSAGE

SECRET

AGINDEX

3

ROUTING

5

7

2

DIRECTOR

PAGE TWO

TO

INFO:

CE DIE

295/0

PECAUSE LI-9 IS SENSITIVE CURRENT SOURCE, BUT WOULD APPRECIAZE

STOCKWOOD REVIEWING INFO ON AVIL' AND ASKING WHETHER LIOOZE

ABOUT AVILA AND WHETEER LIOOZE EVER HAD FURNISHED ANY INFO

CONCERNING RIDE.

3. REGARDIESS OF LICOZE REPLY TO ABOVE EE SHOULD BE VALUABLE

SOURCE IN EUROPE. CLOSE CONTRUL PROVIDED BY RES STATION

CAPABILITIES PLUS PLANNED COVERICE HIS APARTENT SHOULD PERJIT

VERIFICATION ES LIFO AND SONA FIDES. IN VIEW OF PARA 1 UNDERSTANDING

SEOULD BE REACHED WITH LICOZE THAT KUBARK EXPECTS BIM TO

DISCLOSE FULLY ALL INFO OF INTEREST TO KUBARK WITHOUT NEED OF

DETAILED QUESTICHING. SUGGEST HE 35 TOLD TEAT KUBARK INTERESTS

COINCIDE WITH BEST INTERESTS OF CUBAN PEOPLE BUT THAT KUBARE

NEEDS FULLEST INTO IN ORDER TO BS HELPFUL WEETHER OR NOT INTO

IN HIS OPINION IS OF LECITTHATE INTERESI TO STARK, ASA LAST

RESORT HIS TAPED COMMENTS COULD BE REVEALED TO HIM AS CONTROL

C: MEASURE ALTEOUGH IT IS HOPED THAT CONFIDENCE IN AND RAPPORT.

VITE STOCKWOOD PLUS CHANGER. INE CIRCEAS

(CONTIATED)

REBSAGiNE OFFICER

SECRET

AUTNENTICITINE

GIFICE!

any along cant

cladsilication i

REPRODUCTION EY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITED.

CasT Ma

---

## Page 91

Dira :

ExT

DATE:

MESSAGE FORW

SECRET

2

3

ROUTING

15

: 6

FROV DIRECTO?

GON:

INFO

PACE

I THREE

70

INFO:

$95/0

SITUATION IN CUBA AND LICOZE'S C2 CAN OPPOSITION TO PRESENT

REGIVE AS WELL IS TO COMMUNISM. WILL LEAD EIX TO COOPERATE

FULLY.

4. IN CENERAL ROS, BELIEVES'THAT STOCKWOOD SEOLID CONCENTRATE

ON CURRENT REQUREYENTS RATHER TELY DELVE LATHER INTO PAST

LICOZE ACTIVITES WHICH ALREADY HAVE EZEN COVERED IN SOME

DETAIL AND IT WHICH LICOZE APPEARS ZONESTLY TO EAVE FORCOTTEN.

SHRYOCK IY REVIEWING LATEST INFO FROM LICOZE ECUND IT TO CORRESPOND

WITH INFO RYOWN TO HIM E DURING TRE EE WAS IN CONTACT WITH LIOOZE.

5. ECS WILL PROVIDE REQUIREMENTS AND WILL ENDEAVOR TO

SUGGEST MEANS WEICH CAN BS USED TO ENHANCE I COZE REPUTATION

WITH CUBAN INTEL SERVICE SO AS TO NCREASE ELS ACCESS AND VALUE

IN FUTURE.

C/WE

RELEASING OFPICER

END OF MESSICE

WH/1/Mexico

WE/SA/MOB

WH/SA/EOS

WE/2

WE/S

COOTDIYTTING OFF BEAS

SECRET

ATHENTICATING

i final

---

## Page 92

MATERIAL IRVIENED AT CIA HEADQUARTERS BY

HOUSE SELECT CONMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MEMBERS

FILE TITLE/NULIBER/VOLUME :

INCLUSIVE DATES:_

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:

ROON:

DELETIONS, IF ANY:_

LIAISON & OFFICE OF SECURITY

DATE

RECEIVED

DATE

RETURNED

REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME)

ED LOPEZ

SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

Chase Than lapy

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE

SECRET

THIS FOLDER IS NOT TO BE RELEASED OUTSIDE OF

CI/STAFF. THE PERSON CHARGED WITH THIS FOLDER

MUST NOTIFY CI/OA(5077) IMMEDIATELY IF IT IS

TRANSFERRED TO ANOTHER GROUP WITHIN

CI/STAFF SO THAT IT MAY BE RECHARGED TO THE

PROPER PERSON, AND SO THAT THE FOLDER CAN

RE READLY LOCAT

---

## Page 93

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1094

CIA MISTORICAL REVIEW PROCRAM

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SEERET

: TO

F2OM .

ACTIONS

INFO

: SPECICR

BEXICO CITY

Viri S

31

31

3 JAN 19E4

File

16!

72332327

DIR CITE MEXI 7613 (ESSSY ACTINS)

•2VM691186

C-107331

REPORIS THAT TERESA PROENZA WAS SUMMARILY

FIRED FROS MER JO3 AS RESULT OPEN CABLE FRON FORIN RAUL ROA RECEIVED

ASUJI TEY OR IWELVE DECEMBER. ( PLS NOTE ATTACKMENT TO HMMA 22624

GIVING DATE I DECEMBER

SAYS THAT FIRING EVIDENTLY RESULT OF PROENZA REMARK TO SISTER

IN LAN OF ROA TO EFFECT THAT STRONS ROA NOTE TO GOM REGARDINE DETENTTON

OF SILVIA DURAN VAS DIPLOMATIC ERROR. BACKING THIS UP IS REMARK TO

BY COTY SOLORZANO ABOUT 8 DEC TO EFFECT PROENZA SHOULD WAICK MER

STEP AND 3S MORE FRIENDLY WITH SISTER OF ROA'S WIFE.

WAS ALSO

VITNESS TO PROENZA CRITICISM OF ROA NOTE IN CONVERSATIOY WITH PRO-CASTRO

OFFICIAL OF FINE ARIS INSTITUTE.

3. PROENZA HARD HIT BY FIRING.

ROA PROZABLY ORDERED DISMISSAL

BECAUSE SHE IS COMMUNIST AND ROA IS NOT. PROENZA VISITED GENERAL KERIBERTO

JARA IN VERACRUZ TO PLEAD CASE AND REPORTED JARA FURIOUS AT INJUSTICE.

OI 24 DEG PROENZA SHOVED UP AT EMBASSY DINNER, APPEARED SLIGHTLY

FRUNK, SAID SHE HAD JUST COME FROM VISIT WITH SENERAL LAZARO GARDENAS.

SHE DID NOT STAY AT EMBASSY FOR DINNER.

SAYS HER DISTISSAL KNOWN BY EMBASSY PERSONNEL BUT NOT &ZING

SECRET

REPRODUCTION IY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PRONINTED

Capy Na

---

## Page 94

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

191182

- PAGE OL-

PALACO EBOLTO PROENZA SHONS UP ALIOST DAILY, RENAISS FEN MINUTES, LENIES,

REVEALS CALLERS BEING STALLED OFF

WITH REPLY

PICONEL NOT IN OR PERHAPS DUS TOMORROW.

SO 10 EL:DEUCE THIS DISMISSAL DUE TO

?

SEEKET

---

## Page 95

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

21

ROUTING

15

6

TO

FROM :

ACTONI

INFO

I CrECTOR

MEXICO CITY

WH 8

DOP, C1, -1/0Ps, clica

4g Fl, SAS 8, VR

3 JAN 1964

File

SECRET 230002Z

DIR CITE MEXI 1613 SEASSY ACTING)

2a691 1 86

C-104331

1. LITAMIL-S REPORTS THAT TERESA PROSAZA VAS SUMMARILY

FIRED FROG HER J03 AS RESULT OPEN CABLE FROM FOMIN RAUL ROA RECEIVED

RUJ: TEN OR TVELVE DECEMBER. & PLS NOTE ATTACHMENT TO HEA 22634

GIVINS DATE 1 DECEMBERS

2. L-9 SAYS THAT FIRING EVIDENTLY RESULT OF PROENZA REMARK TO SISTER

IN.LAW OF ROA TO EFFECT THAT STRONS ROA NOTE TO GOM REGARDING DETENTTON

CE SILVIA DURAY WAS DIPLOMATIC ERROR. SACKING THIS UP IS REMARK TO

L-S BY COTY SOLORZANO ABOUT 8 DEC TO EFFECT PROENZA SHOULD WAICH HER

STE? AND 3E MORE FRIENDLY WITH SISTER OF ROA'S WIFE. L-S VAS ALSO

VITESS TO PROENZA CRITICISM OF ROA NOTE IN CONVERSATIOY WITH PRO-CASTRO

OFFICIAL OF FINE ARIS INSTITUTE.

3. PROENZA HARD HIT BY FIRING. TOLD L-9 ROA PROZABLY

ORDERED DISHYSSAL

BECAUSE SHE IS COMMUNIST AND ROA IS NOT. PROENZA VISITED

GENERAL HERISERTO

JARA IN VERACRUZ TO PLEAD CASE AND REPORTED JARA FURIOUS AT INJUSTICE.

ONE 24 DEC PROENZA SHOVED UP AT EMBASSY DINNER, APPEARED SLIGHTLY

FRUNK, SAID SHE HAD JUST COME FROM VISIT WITH GENERAL LAZARO GARDENAS.

SHE DID NOT STAY AT EMBASSY FOR DINNER.

4. L-9 SAYS HER DISMISSAL KNOWN BY EMBASSY PERSONNEL BUT NOT BEING

SECRET

REPRODUCTION IT OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBTED

Copy No.

---

## Page 96

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

IN 1118k PAGE

TOLKES A3OUTO PROSNZA SHONS UP ALMOST DAILY, REMAINS FEW MINUTES, LEAVES,

COCKT LIENVOY TRAFFIC RSVEALS CALLERS BEING STALLED OFF WITH REPLY

FROEKZE NOT IN OR PERHAPS DUE TOMORROW.

NO EVIDENCE THIS DISMISSAL DUE TO AMROD OP BUT CONSIDER THIS

SECRET

?

SECRET

---

## Page 97

INSTRUCTION SHEET

SET

FCR

EXPEDITE

0 д

SP PAQUIET

ISSUE

DDEPATIORAL AFPROVAL

ISSUE FROVISIONAL OPERATIONAL APROVAL

RIENO FOA FEN

DATS URTIL

ALIASTATE POS FOR

BATS SATIL

FORBARO ATTAIUHERT TO DIVISION

¡FORRAFO ATTAIAMERT TO SECURITY OFFICE

ANCEL

PES

sotice

CO ASTON DEMO DATES:

division)

(Sre "Remartes

for

151088)

season)

MIGUEST

F; TRACES

REDUESI

FOR SPERATIONAL AND DIFISICHAL IDALES

REALEE? FOR

FIELD

HIGUEST

рас. 1

1293 18

SECRET

[a?E

SET LE FOR

111 Dec 63

EXPEDITE TONTE

140ICES:

CASE BI.

C-101331

655°T 8.

CHK

U'SE

AREA:

DIQUEST "GHECE LIST"

SIQUEST RESULTS STAFF/D DOSSICA HEVIEW

#EVIEN STARBIO COLLATERAL

IASCENGTION

RIQUEST RESULT!

TECN.

ISTERROGATIOR EN:H

SECEHITY

OFFICE

01V15130

REVIEN OF SECIASTY OSFICE REEDET AT CI/OA

RIVIEN OF SECURITY OFFICI CONCURGERT MEÑO AT CLIGA

DEVIEN OF FEE RIFORT AT CI/OR

BEQUEST REVIEN CE ATTACHIO RETERCACE

FILE

TICKLE

ARTECE

IRIRST

OTHER

707

+ 31

SECRET

{89#

---

## Page 98

SECRET

INSTRUCTION SHEET

SET

SET

EXPEDITE

SATE

0 л

OBERATIONAL AFPROVAL

SSUE PEOVISIONAL OPERATIONAL APPROYAL

ENTENO FOR FOR

DAYS UNTIL

•EIDSTATE POR FOR

DATE ÜNTIL

FORBARD

АТТА-НМЕНТ

DIVISION

ATTACHHEAT TO SECURITY DEFICE

CARCEL

1.90

colice is diton

MEMO DATED:

vision)

isre

for reasonjo «

488000)

PIQUEST EI TRACES

REDUEST FOR

SPERATIONAL AND

DIxISIONAL

TRACES

REDUEST

FOR FIELD TRACES

RIGUEST

PACI

1703 11

сок'т н. Сык

FOR

!! Dee 63

EXPEDITE TDATE

=3;

iNDICES:

CASE SO.

C-101331

USE

AREA:

REQUEST "GREEN LIST"

BEQUEST RESULTS STAFF/D

DOSSIER REVIEW

#EVIER STAFFID CILLATERAL IAFCANATIDO

FIGUEST HESULT!

TECH.

INTERROGATION PA:

SECURITY

OFFICE

01VIS130

REVIER OF SECURITY OFFICE REFORE AT CI/OA

REVIEW OF SECURITY OFFICI CONCUMENT MEMO AT ELÍGA

REVIER OF FEI BIFORT AT CAÍCA

#QUEST REVIER GE ATTACHED REFERENCE

FILE

TICKLE

NOTICE

SECOND

THIRD 69:30

OTHER

0#7

#987

707

SECRET

---

## Page 99

• UMCLASSIFIED

ERNAL

• CONE INTIAL

LO SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SURECT: 10200m

FROM

EATENSION

CI/ 04

NO.

DATE

27 Hovember 1563

1O: officer dangerin

reideng)

1. Calef, it/3/Nexdco

ATTy:

CI/CA

3.

DATE

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

RECEVED FORMINDED

1s attached correct?

No changes made

Chief, NiH i3/Diexico.

2 40 4:

This is fot your reliwice.

time,

10.

, fa cand

207f mage:

6635

82.

13.

14.

13.

610 SmOO

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 100

• UNCLASSIFIED

ERNAL

ROUMING AND RECORD SHEET

CONT ENTIAL

O SECRET

SURECT: (Osana1)

FROM

NO.

DATE

CI/CA

TO: 10fcan designatine man ma

banktagi

". Chief, is/3/Kexico

ATTY:

"CI/CA

3.

27 Hovember 1963

DATE

OFFICER S

INITLALS

RECEIVED

•FORMANDED

Is attached correct?

No changes made

Chied, uHis Diexico.

6.

2 40 44:

This is fot your rebuisce.

Rotunes 4061/04

dec. 11

I fa some

timie,

1781 mesi;

10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

1S.

POtA

3-18

610 " 0 Г

SECRET. • CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 101

D

UNCLASSIFIED

"ERN AL

LE ONLY

• CON. ENTIAL

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SECRET

SUBJECT: (renal)

FROM:

EXTENSION 1 NO

CI/CA

TO: Offiser Ensignatic, rest Autuber, ent

building)

1. Chie?, WE/3/Hexico

ATTY:

DatE

18 Movesber 1963

DAlE

#CUVED

OFFER'S

INITIALS

6.

10.

12.

13.

14.

15.

FORAL

208

610 SMO SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

D

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 102

ENET

18 Noverber 1963

NEHOFANDUM FOR:

Chief, wH/3/Mexico

ATIENTION

SUBJECT

LIAMIL/9

C-102,331

Pursuant to & seeting bold on 14 Moreuber 1963 enongst persomel

of Wa/3/Mexdco, B. Reickart, R. Scott, L

land of CI/04,

7it was egreed tina: tibe case Of LITAMIL,/9 coDes

urier the burview of t51-? No. 1G5, Section 18a, hs sucs, this requires

Headquarters approval, 1.e. LIBE OI HI UIVISION, 10I TUE FECCUIWINE U &

goverment official of s denied eres country.

2. As described in lEXI-66g6, LINUT/9 "serves es Invaluable eyes

and ears inside target establissment" reporting on inforuation received

In his government position.

It ras agreed sich activity does not reguire

a Provisional or Operational Aproval since LIAMI,/ is a govermment of-

ficial of a denied ares country.

inder these conditions, the processing

Of an Operational Approval should not and vill not be elected.

It was aiso agreti that ii LiAHIS abould be employed for oper

rational use other than reporting information received in his government

position, the usual Operationai Approval or Provisionai Operational Ap

proval procedure vill apply.

It was agreed that CI/c would take no further processing Letion

at this

time based on the sove inforuation.

Hoverer, as lo sinilar

ses, CI/OA will forverd to tce desis such information Jade available

which night aid the Station in 1ts handling of LITANT!:

Chief, CI/CA

68000 1

Erasona Pra astete

1: 815928199 829

---

## Page 103

UNCLASSIFIED

TERMAL

- * ONLY

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

CON. ENTIAL

SECRET

SUBJECT: (00091)

FROM:

EXTENSION

1 NO

DATE

CI/CA

TO: /Officer designesia, tent fustiber, oral

building)

18 Movember 1963

DAlE

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

RECEIVED

1. Chie:, wa/3/Mexico

ATTH:

2.

12.

13.

15.

FORA

610 METRO L SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

• INTEANAL •

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 104

COET

18 Noverber 1963

MEHDRANDUM FOR:

ATTENTION

SUBJECT

Chief, VH/3/Hexdco

LITAMI/9

C-101,331

Pursuant to & neeting beld on 14 Morember 1963 amongst personnel

and of CI/CA,

1t was egreed that tine case of LITAMIL/9 comes

As such, this recure.

Headquarters approval, 1.e. tast oI lI VIVISIOn, 10r be recrun We

government official of a denied eres country.

2. As described 1n MEXI-6696, LITAMTI/9 "serves es invaluable eyes

and ears inside target establisment" reporting on information received

in his government position. It was azreed such activity does not reguire

a Provisional or Operational Approval since LILAMIL/9 is a goverment of

ficial of a denied area country.

Under these conditions, the processing

of an Operational Approval should not and vill not be elected.

3. It was aiso agreed that i1 LItHt, 9 aboula be employed for ope

rational use other than reporting infornation received in his government

position, the usual Operationa: Approval or Provisional Operational Ap

proval procedure will apply.

H. It was agread that CI/CA would take no further processing action

at this time based on the ebove information.

Horever, B6 la sinilar

cases, CI/CA wIll forward to tice dess such Information sade available to

It which night aid the Station in its handling of LIIAMTI,/9.

Chiet, CI/CA

680J 1

Erested 859 ahmune

8:01/1:687 813

Sit her:::

---

## Page 105

8 OCT 963

Ed,

I dou T consides this au ascurete

of wichesive dispatch as was agreed t

in oud rutg. with e/.

a. No mention that they at wing

was willout afpsoral Dany bird (the TOA

qrauted for lony ouly automatically apfeised at

the cmpletion I towr-ssssiou.)

b. To ricution that he is dep in the

CANTICLE seeinenti as the stelion.

is a muest.

would like your comments.

HNMW-11988

4 Qct. 16.3

---

## Page 106

8 OCT 263

Ed,

I douT consides this au ascurete

of uncheive dispatch as was agreed t

in oud wetp. with e.

a. No weiton that they at usug

wace without approval any kird (the TOA

granted for trey outy automatically pfired ot

the completion I tour session.)

b. To ricution that he is deep in the

NAUTICLE sequinments the letion.

C. Para. I6 should read ReFluTTER

is a must.

Would like your comments.

HMMW-11988

4Qet. 163

---

## Page 107

SEGRET

1 October 1963

MZJORANDUN FOR:

ATTETTICHI

SUE TECT

12 LE

C1et, HI/3

6-101,331

: CI/OA Heaozendum dated 10 July 1903. sene subject.

• This 18 the second reqiest of CI/01'a sting for an emer 1

or memorandua of 10 July 196

Because of the sensitivity of tale

cass, It 18 luperstire that the aft requested reply be lovarded.

It 1s to be noted that the subject continnes to be uned with

out si Operational Approval per PRQ Part II dated 17 June 1965. It 18

i, tamz isubject 1s aleo aware of the Bts

ET'& LAURICE rejatrements", a nost sensitive aren

3a Again, l ast for an annier. to the referenced nemorundus...

SEGRET .

---

## Page 108

SECRET

1 October 1963

ARHORANDUN POR:

ALTERNIC

SUB TECT

REFERENCE

Calet, k2/3

Go 101,331

:CI/QA Memorandum dated 10 July 1963-

Sene Subject.

This 18 the secoad recent of CI/QA'= alting for an samur to

our memorandu of 10 July 1963.

Because of the mennitivity os thia

caso, 1t 10 lupartivo tust tbe ost requentod repiy be torvarded.

It 1s to be noted that the Subject contines to be uned witho

out 1s Operaticanl Approval per PRR Part II dated 17 June 1965.

,i, tont "bubject la aleo avare cr tbe sta

, A mout sensitive aren

3. Again, m 8at for an annur to the referenced nemorandur.

cates, cL/CA

SECRET

---

## Page 109

SECRET

INSTRUCTION SHEET

EXPEDITE

INDICES:

CATE

29 AUG 1963

SET LE FOR P-O-A.

EXPEDITE SATE

FBI

INDICES:

CaSE 00.

329609

SET

FOR.

$8 INOU16%

ISSUE

ESSLE PACÉISIONAL OPERATIONAL REPROVAL

ENTENO FOA FOR

DATS UNTEL

REINSTATE POA FOR

DATS UNBEL

FORNARD

ATTACHMEST

TO 01885129

FORNARD

ATTACHENT

TO

SECURITE OffICE

CARCEL

150

MEMO DATID:

CARCEL

FER CA/OA (Malice do division)

( See

for resson)

#EQUEST EI TRACES

REQUEST FOR OPERATIONAL AND EIVISIONAL TRACES

REQUEST FOR FIELD TRACES

REQUEST

PRO 1

чашана ».

64H/3

GOU'T A. CHR

ESE

PIQUEST "EDECA LIST"

#EQUEST RESULTS STAFFID DOSSIER REVIIN

BEVIEW STATT:O COLLATERAL INFCANATION

REQUEST RESID?S TICH.

INTERROGATIO

64376

SICURITY

GEFICE

REVIEN OF SIS OIYY OFFICE BESSOT AT CLIDA

FEYIEN OF SECLAITT OFFICE CONCURRENT MEMO

HEVIEN OF FBE

HEPORT AT CO/DA

REQUEST REVIEN OF ATTACHED RIFERETCE

rice

NOTICE

FIRST

SECORD

ATHE#

#1V1510%

THERD ACI

707

SECRET

---

## Page 110

SECRET

INSTRUCTICN SHEET

EXPEDITE

INDICES:

DATE

SET

$$ :NOUIFT

FOR

ISSUE OPIFATICHAL AFFROVAL

ISSUE PAGIISIONAL OPERATIONAL ASPROVAL

EXTENO SCA FOR

DArS UNTIL

HEINSTATE POA FOR

DA'5 UNTIL

FORMAAD

ATTACHMEST

TO 0IVISI20

FORARD

ATTACHHENT

TO SECURITE CEFICE

CARtEL

PER

(Ão Police

14Yd549%

1B 8Mt 1

DATID:

CARCEL

(See

FER

Recarka"

CI/OA (ROPiCe dO ESTISIDR)

for sesson)

"EQUEST

#1 TRACES

REQUEST FOR OPERATIONAL AND EIVISIONAL TRACES

REQUEST

FIELD TRACES

REQUEST

PRO !

PRO I1

REMRAS.

ATE

29 AUG 1963

SET LP FOG

CASE NO

329609

P. 0-A.

EXPEDITE TEATE

FB I

INDICES: 1

CON°T E.

CAK

LSE

AÑER:

#EQUEST "ESEES LIST"

#EQUEST AFSULTS STAFF/O DOSSIER RETIEN

NEVIEN STAFF'O COLLATEPAL INFIAUAIION

REQUEST

BESUNTE TECH.

IATERROGATIES

DIVISION

#EVIER OF SIEDITY OFFICE REAGAY AT CI/DA

¡REVIEN DE SECURITI OFFICE COSCURRENT MEMO AS CH/DA

REVIE#

FB:

"EPORT AT CI/CA

#EQUEST REVIEW OF ATTACHED RIFERENCE

FBLE

Ticke 12 Sept 63

ROTICE

FIRST

SECOND

TRIRE AND

# 1728

OTHER

WH reply to

1o queyas colon temr.

707

SECRET

ARID

---

## Page 111

TO :

REQUEST FOR INVESTIGATION ANDTOR MAME CHECK

Deputy Director Security, IOS

Chief, CI/Operatlossi Approral

and Support Division

SUBJECT:

201 -

TORE DE REGUIS

HE 34y- 5042290891

cec

USE 07

SUELECT

SEECIAL IBITOUSTIONS (LiTiTaLi

HATE

SEGUECT ANS DOEA CE ASSIGNMEN

I enly 1903

WH/3

FAI CHECK RESEETS EY

(Date)

Jer

- eRe.) .

CS TRACE RESULTS

REMARKS

DIVISION

FIELO

1 48 PH '63

Come.

18/ T20==

TO

: Chief, CI/CA

FROM:

Deputy Director Security, IOS

X 1. 0s Indices results: all delow

DATE

2G AUG 1955

X 2. Checks were conducted at the indicated Agencies with negative results:

FBI

ACSI

3. Checks were conducted at the following Agezey (les) with positäye results,

reports attached

I4. Domestic Field Investigation has been coupleted,

attsched.

5. Donestic Pield Investigation favorable, reports will folle within 60 days.

"EW ER MES

CLOSED

CI/CAdy. this office (08) 8560106 trend cated Bellw63

Jasons assertin

+, 693a

SECRET

3o Crying,

---

## Page 112

TO :

FROM:

REQUEST FOR INVESTIGATION ANDZOR MAME CHECK

Deputy Directo Socurity,

IOS

Cale?, "I/Operationai Approral

and Support Division

SUBJECT:

201

OF REG.:G

€201,347-507279089. 1s

(Date)

USE

SUELECT

SATE

RECONCT ARE AREA Of A5S1 Fly 1963

WE/3

Souto, Inta

FAI CHECA RESULTS BY

(Date)

Jer

SPECIAL

IHETHUSTIONS (LinilariOne

ES TRACE RESULTS

СТЕПА Р ІД

Tres

DIVISION

FIELO

Jit 12

148 PH83

TO : Chief, CI/CA

DATE

FROM: Deputy Director Security, IOS

26 AUG 1955

DXI1. Os Indices results: del delow

X2. Checks were conducted at the indicated Agencies with negative results:

FBI

ACCI

STATE

PP

3. Checks were conducted at the following Agency (les) with positage results,

reports attached

4. Domestic Field Investigation has been completed,

rents

attached.

5. Domestic Pleid Investigation favorable, reports will folled within 60 days

Data Cintained in O$ entices cheri

AIR ly this fine (08) in in heed Balls

CLOSED

FORM

#-&$

693a

SECRET

---

## Page 113

SECRET

INSTRUCTION SHEET

EXPEDITE

INDICES:

18522,

SET.

UP

FOR

59 1502187

ISSUE OFERATIONAL APPROTAL

ISSUE PROVISIONAL DOLRATIDGAL APPROVAL

ENTENS NOA FOR

DAYS UNTIL

HERESTATE FOA FOR

BAYS PATIL

FORNADO ATTACHMENT TO DIFISION

FOREANO AYTACHHENT TE SECUMITY CFFICE

CANCEL PER DIVISION DEMO DATCO:

e 00 8 made,

CANCEL

PER CP/DA (Notice so division)

15ce

"Rewarkso

for reason)

#EQUEST RI TRACES

REQUEST FOR OPERATIORAL AND DIVISICNAL TRICES

| REQUEST FOR FIELD TRACES

REQUEST

+=0 B

NEHA KHAN

DATE

1 0 JUL 1563

CASE IS.

6-101331

SET UP FOR P.O.A.

FBI

INDICES:

USE

AREA:

REQUEST "GREER LIST"

REQUEST RESULTS STATEIO BOSSIEN PENNEM

#EVICO STAFFIO COLLATEREL

1 OF CARROT A CAS

#EQUEST RESULTS TECA.

SATERROGATION FACA

SECURITY

OFFICE

DIVISION

REVILO OF SECUMITY OFFICE REPORT AT CI/GO

REVIES DE SECUMITY OFFICE CONCUMMENT MEMO AT CHICA

REQUEST MENIES CE ATTACHED REFERENCE.

TICELE

NOTICE

OTHER

FIRST

SECEED

THIRO ANS

707

+98

SECRET

1&11

---

## Page 114

SECRET

INSTRUCTION SHEET

SET

EXFFOITE

DATE

INDICES:

X!°=

ISSUE OPERATIONEL APPROVAL

ISSUE PROVISIONAL OPERATICAL APPROVAL

EXTEND OA FOR

DAYS UNTIL

HEIRSTATE POA FOR

DAYS LATIL

FORDABO ATTACHMENT TO DIFISION

FORNADO ATTACHMENT TO SECURITY CFFICE

CANCEL PER DIVISION MEMO DATIO:

(580

PER CI/DA (Norice to dirision)

for seasony

REQUEST RI TRACES

REQUEST $00 OPERATIOSAL AND DIVISIONAL TRACES

¡MEQUEST FOR FIELD TRACES

REQUEST

PRO g

REBABES

DATE

10 JUL 1563

SET UP FOR P. O.A.

FBI

INDICES: 1

COV'T N. EHK

USE

AREA:

CASE BS.

6-101231

REQUESS "CHEER LIST"

REQUEST RESULTS STAFF/O DOSSIER REVIEW

REVICO STAFFIO COLLATERAL

INFORMATION.

REQUEST RESULTS TECH.

INTERSOGATION FACE

SECURITY

OFFICE

DIVISION

REVIES OF SECURITY OFFICE REPORT AT

61/06

REVIE» DE SECURITY OFFICE CONCURRENT MEMO AT CHICA

REQUEST REVIER OF ATTACHED REFERENCE

'''' alteched

TICKLE

MOTICE

FIRST

SECORD

OTHER

THIDO AND

707 018

SECRET

---

## Page 115

24 June 1963

MENORANDUM FOR: CI/OA

SUBJECT

: LITAMIL-9

C-101331

201-329609

Attached 1s the PRQ Part II On LITAMIL-9. An

Operational Approval is requested.

John M. Whitten

Chief, .WH/3

SSG.

---

## Page 116

SECRET

PRO A0.

PERSONAL RECOPO QUESTIOKNAIRE

PART 11 - OPERATICHAL INFORMATION

TASTINCTION, SU CASE OFFICER

#15FA96-80.

BAMA 2155%

ITTANTL

SECTION 1.

CONTACT ABS CEVELOPMENT

ISSICATE MOS, INES, PHERE, ONY, ANI DO ONIN SUBJEC? DAS FIRST IDATAILS DO GEXELOFED.

Case DErIca= (Clydo I SHRTOCE) vas introducod to Sabject on l8 duis 52 b

LITUTE 3, to sas rooTering fas & fRil stona operation In tie bospilt. to

HITHER SLEJECT COULD DE TURNES OVER QUICELY ANO IN A SECLRE MAINER TO ANY BSSPOSSIBLE CASE EFFICEA FOR

88J I CATE

subjeet could be turand ovar to any responsible Cam Officar, pertleslerly

one sats a spaking bondedge ol Sparina, Sabl speaks inglisa and french

&IST

ETHER CASE OFFICERS INO HAVE MANILES SUBJECT SA

B DA HE

ASCES UN HAS KRONS. EIDE SANES ES MIEN

"GET HAVE

abanet kaos Clyde I SHRIOCK, his Came Officer, by tron nause Sarroc

111 introdren Inureson Y. MEER to Sabjeet during the wons of 26 Jam 1953

8009 74

1050a

DEPLACES FORN SP-D5O

1d• 201

SECRET

---

## Page 117

SECTICN 11

+05888888.01

SECRET

HOTUVATION MAL CENTROL

ovisab feet sa bighly notsracod towerd 79708 and the lesta: I la ants-

INDICATE GOAT CONTROL, IF ARY, CRISIS SILO THE SUBJECT, (IS no consrol, er il these in a lace ol

Station Harleo cosid rural Subject's activities to tha PITal.

government

SECTIOn

covar

COVER

USES EY SUBJECT AND CASE OFFICER IN THEIR MEESINGS.

Subtect and Case Offions met clandestinaly la darconed arnas of the

eity at sight.

COVER USED EY SURECT IN OBTAINING NIS INFUSHAIIIT SU NO LUTIALIAN ROD TORTO...

Subjoet, as an employee of the PBINE) labassy obtains his istoruation

Iron bis fallon voriors and contacto.

INDICATE SENDICE FIA GHICH SUBJECT THIRES TE (HALL DOTE, SIS MOrKiNE).

Jubject kaon be 1a worising for Fate Intelligeno.

INTELLIGEICE COURECTICHS ANO TRAINING

EXPLAIN SIR'ECT'S

MAID PAST OR PRESENT ICADECTIOS MITH RAY CIMER INTELLIGENCE SERVICE, INDICATE THE CA-TA:

SION EOMTEETION IS RAIME

Subjoet in not knom to have had asy contact ulth any other Intelllzanes

BerTÍO.

8-

LIST DIFLE INUIVINUALS (AGENÉS.

DOlores CUTTAS de EXCESSE

Sabjoct's brotber, leonal, fosident in lesice

Jose CARRAL Bacalanta

ITtAktL3 probably suspacts Saby 18 12 contact iita co

EXPLAIN SAY TRAINING SUBJECT HAS MAD 1T CLANDESTINE OPERATIONS.

Sabfoct has not bad any oran traladng in clandestine operations bat

be is caning and intelligent and has sade great strides on bis eu siroe

first contac: rita his Core Oifiear.

SECTION Y

COLLABORATION POTENTIAL

INDICATE EMIR FOREICA ROMER SUBJECT AULD DE MOST LIMELT TO COLLABONATE MITH DECAUSE SE AIS IOCOLOGY DO GEST.

ASSOCIATIERS.

Subjeet would probabir collaborate idtà an anti-Coumnist Cabus restra.

1111 should come to poter.

SECRET

---

## Page 118

SECRET

SECTICA VI

USE

CENTRET

as MaRO

MATICH

HE MAS FURNISALE.

LICO SE CONTACIES NEEDAR. INUICATE DOTINITO DO RAILA ME DOS SEENGIE MED "O TURE OF DANCE-

Bull provided a leu letellirence Itens throughLITAHILE beige dract

contact uns nade ilth to Cure Officer.

Subject obtains Infornation I ron mabers of the PAHl labitay and

Mends of Percel ata shan be deals.

3. 19DICATE MMAT MAS BELO TELE SIBLECT AS TO TNE DISHUSITID S INFORNAIIDN ME ELANISHES.

Subject has been told that the loonation ha pravidos 18 forried

to Hashtagton.

A. DETAIL SANECT'S PROFUSIO NO DE CA TIRE LIE DA SUTIES.

Suet Factarites er, decrod pover to peretration of a PaREN

Carind let a I so eat pol

of tie Station's iNTRICIE regairents

I- DETAIL SUBJECT•S PROPISED

Hot appliestle

DUTIES.

SECTION

PROPOSES LIAISCO ER CFERATICHAL ACTIVITY

DETAIL SUBJECT'S PROPOSED INDISS TIPE CO-BE: EE ZUEDATISNRL USE:

A.. IVERE SUBJECT IS AN OFFICIAL MEMBER DE A SOMECCA GENTARFET-

No: ap-lica:16

В- WHERE

AGENCY:

Not apalleable

SECTION WIED

RAZILY HELATIORSHIP WITH SUBJECT

EXPLAIE RATURE OF AGTATO DTLATIGASHID BITA SUAECT, I.E.

FERSORAEL #HON%

TRAINER. OPPOSITE NUMBERL BENISLOATION. IF

TO SUBJECT.

Sabjoet 18 going on salary as of 15 Jun 63 at tbe rate of h000 pesos

(1320.00 0.5.) monthlye

Androu S. PARG?S aod Eduard Do. DUPl are koom

• lo, Subject under arased sauna.

SECRET

---

## Page 119

SECRET

SECTION IX

JUALIFIÇATICRS F'OL CITCA VILRATIORS

IOBICATE STECIAL ANILITIES, TALENIS, ER DUALSNICATICNS FESSESSRO EN SUBIECT SNICH COULS CONGEIVARUY

B OF EMLE

FOR O:HIA APERATIOAS.

Sabjech i6 al artist

SECTION I

COMMITMEATS

IF 18 35 OROPOSEO TO FAO SIUCT A DIGLRA SALDAY.

ISCICATE PHE MLEXLY AMDUAB- IF FAYOÃET TO RE MADE IN ELDUANDE

CONRCIITIES, SUBSIDN GR GPMER METHOD, SFECIEE AND GISE DETAILS.

la of 15 Jans 1963, Subjeet sd 11 be paíd a nontily salaty ol 1000 pesos.

CTREAMISE DOT CUNEDES AÇNEIA, MASE "S SUBJECE, (Exauale: Comas

redardind

aWmaHAt ANA

fausly.)

Io comitaata or pradaes bat it 1s assuned tbat LUBiRT sd1l asaist

Sabjact to leate the country lí this 15 secessary because of hie

activities

03 IUZAREIS beonlle

• 8

LE ARU SEÜDNI IY

A4AYCAIE

DAE FIELO AGEACIES ARD FUELD FILES EITH IMICO

S.#:ECI'S HAME MAS EÉES CHECRED NUS THE RESULTS.

Station $1308.

ClORe IMIALÉS Of Subjest SICh aS ITEAIA3, LITANIIAZ, LITANLIAT

Iztstial and sasy osher contacta of tice Cionn Babasay.

ISDICATE QTHER INVESTIGOTIVE MIASURES TARLS TO VERIFY BICESUPNICAL INFORMATIGA FURGISHES ET

SUONECT

Sine para 1

INDICATE PHETHER DU OSI PESVISIONAL GFEERTICARL ARDACHEL CE GOEDATTORAL AP-

DATE AFFRONAL DATAINED

PROVAL FIA SUQJECTOS LSE LAS BEEN PRIRIOUIT

*aTAIgES.

Sebuitted 27 Julz 2962

EIPA 19455

ETREUSTE JURiECTS EHRLETER. RELIA

ir nos seiui

subjeet ie ef high sorad charactar, proud of nis Lacily becegroundo

Sincero, extresaly security cosictois, raliaile, puactual and ilibly intelligaato

1 coemopoli-as trpe, sosinat artya jet cogrleoont of itat 1t tiiea to got a

Job dena, 100. IEBART'a Jobo

HY SI TUATICR

CE/GPERATIONAL SECURITY D:EHAGINT.

ODISCRETACO IE OUIGH SUBUECE MI- MAVE GCEN INVOLITE MMICH MUSE DE ENALUATED FROR A

Sabjectis relationhip sita OUTOKE idlnonta to Joee CARRAL Ivcalante and

Doleres

CUEYLS de EICHBNIE pAr NIXI 3150- CARRAL ind de EYCHUR are not

belleved to be aeurity rialos.

SECTICE

*E 1

SUQNECT'S PERSCAAL

#AGITS

1. USE DF LIOUOA. DAUGS: EONMIN6, PARANOUAS.

Subjoct drinis modarataly. Suby 18 not knoua to bare any tlngrant 11o0d.

SECRET

---

## Page 120

SECRET

SECTION XI!

ANOCATIDRAL 18TERESTS

B- ISDICATE SUBJECT'S MORGES ON INTEREST IN SPENTS, MUSIC. ETC.

Subjeet 1s Interosted 1e usic, Iberature, asiast.

SECTICA

HEV

DICATE PNETHER SUBJEC?'S LANGUAGE ABILITIES AND OTHER DIARACTERISTIES, REE SUCH AS HE ESLID PASS AS A BATI

A CSLATAY DR REGION STREA THAN HIS 6E

EXPLAIN.

Saroject 18 & Saropean type, but bacause of his Cchan aconnt sould

probably recognized as sech.

METHER INFCRUAT: 39 IN PRO PARTS I ANDITI MAS DETAINED 8Y RESINACA, CLANDESTINE ASSESSREAT, FILES. →T

CORRESPONDENCE OR OTHER MEANS.

ImPOratIon in PRE Parts 1 and 2 us obtalcad struazi rosaarah, i1les

centa, and carect ages terno

#*CODE%. TURN "OUTRAL ACTION IS REQUIRED, IF AND WHEM FIRMINATICH OR SUBJECT IS EFFECTED, PLEASE EXPLAI, SAISO

Ho problans are envisages in terinting agent.

SECTION XY

EMERCENCY COMDITIONS RECDITACT ARRANGEMENTS

SO EINE FULL

DiATINE CONTACT USED

DETAILS I.E. MEIOGNITICN SIGHALS, S/BI MHERE COLLO CONTACT BE MAJES MAT BONA FISES COULS INDIVISUAL

Subfeet 1s in possession of CO's *elephons norber (hone) and Cois cilloe

phone. CO car mle contact ith Sablect at his home ar at the PRANCY Imbassy

11 necessary. Subjectand CO use the name ALUllAR on the telephone.

SECTION IVI

MISCELLAMECUS OPERATIDNAL DATA AND REMARKS

Saogeet, no is wall deposed toward PAPRIl, 18 andious to readlo a

Long tor arent SO CE T intelitace, coupied Mita bia contacte

In leftist and Communist circios, makes lin ai arcelient prospect.

27 June 2953

DATURE OF APFRDPRIATE SENIOR OFFICER

CLydO I SENIOCI

SECRET

---

## Page 121

SECRET

INSTRUCTION SHEET

17 MAY E63

EXPEDITE /DOE

F9l

INDICES:

CASE DO.

x-101331

SET UP FOF

EXFEDITE | SATE

IDICES:

SET

LP

SO TAQUIRY

ISSUE ORERATICIAL APFFENSE

ISSUE FOSTISIONLL CFERATYONAL APPROVAL

BAYS UATIL

REINSTATE POA FOR

CAYS UNTIL

FORMAND

ATTACHHINT

TO B+EISION

FOREADD

ATTACHHINT

TO SEcURITY OFFICE

7so morice

Finica

"A*CEL PER CIDA (AURiCE tO division

See "Remarka®

for

#EGUES. #I TRACES

FEQLIST FOR OFERATIONAL AND DIVISIONAL TRACES

DEOLEST FOR FIELD TORCES

REQLEST

destroy Tickles

To Archines

1152

REQUEST "ERELE LIST"

¡ REQUEST RESULTS STAFFID DOSSIER MENIE

: BEVIEN STAFFÍI COLLATERAL

IONS SARIST & City

REQUEST BESUI'S

TECH.

INTERROGATION SECO

SEE-HITT

OFEICE

orvision

¡MENICE OF SECURITY GAFICE BENDAT I CO/OA

MEYIEN OF SECURITY OFFICE COOTINDEAT MEMO AT CI/GA

¡REQUEST REVILE CE ATTACHED RETIRENCE

' attached

TICaLE

NOTICE

THIRD AND

FINAL

707

SECRET

---

## Page 122

TO

SENDER WILL CHECK CLASSIN...

LACLASSIFIED

'ON TA AND BOTTO

CONFELESTIAL.

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

OFFICIAL ROLTING SLIP

NAME AND ADORESS

DATE

CI/DA

2 B 11

Atta?

INITIALS

$

ACTION

DIRECT REPLY

COMMENT

CON-SELENCE

FILE

INFORMATION

I PREPARE REPLY

TRECOMMEDDATION

PETUEN

SIGRATURE

Remarke:

Ed; Inclosed 1s Meno se oar problem case,

LITAMIL 9, prepared by the OTR training

officer who recently ze: him in Wex.

FTI and retention or destruction. Hike

(-10133

File

EPB

4mer 63

FOLD HERE TO RETURN TO SENDER

FROM. MAME. ADORESS ANO PHONE MO.

R446:

COSFIDESTIAL

*2-41% 237

Ise perious editioes

DATE

28 Peb

SECRET

(40)

---

## Page 123

24 June 1963

MENORANDUM FOR: CI/OA

SUBJECT

LITAMIL-9

C-101331

201-329609

Attached is the PRQ Part II On LITAMIL-9. An

Operational Approval is requested.

john h. Whitten

Chief, WH/3

---

## Page 124

SECRET

FRO MON

PERSONAL RECORD QUESTIOKNAIRE

PART 11 - OPERATICHAL INFORMATION

- - TESTNUCTION, TU CASE OFFICER

BHA 21557

H007049

LITANT I

SECTICH I..

CONTACT ME CEVELOFMENT

IASICATE MIE, ANER, MOERE, ANY, ANI RA BUDA SUBJECT AS FIRST CONTACTIO OR GENELORED.

Case ODISeas (Clydo I SHRIOCI) vas introdecod to Sabjeet en 1B Mily 52 by

LITt, sa sas rooterine fros a fail stono operation in tie tospit

SADICATE SMETHER SIMLECT COULD BE TIMBES OVER QUACELY AGO IN A SECURE MASTER TO ANY BISPORSIBLE CASI INFICER FOR

"AJICATE TO ANCH.

Sabguet could be turand over to azy responsible Cam Officors partierlerly

one alts a spraine kededge of sparina, Sabl speaks baglisa nad frunet

it

LIST CHER CASE

OFFICERS #HO MAVE MABILED SUBJECT ON MOM ME RUDES OR HAS KAOSE..

GIVE RAMAS BY EMICH TEY MAVE

DEER REDRA.

Sostet kave Clyde I SURIOCE, ME Cass Offices, by tron name SExO

w21 Introdes Inance Y, MAKER to adjoes durtag the was or 26 Fam 1953.

F€#9

то.

* 105 30

1050a

DEA AGES FORM

31•958

SO 20 MAY BE

USED.

SECRET

§4-208

---

## Page 125

SECTICA I

ESTIMATE

S.#IECT-S HOT

MOTIVATICA SA, ECATROL

sr1on, (Be derzaled, il posestle cape evidence, Do dos una dierá coment such as

on sabject la baghly notsvalod towerd 19:78 and the leste Ja le anthe

124011&a

DA? CONTROL, IF ASY, EXISTS DIR THE SUBJECT. (SI nO COBerOl, or if there in a lece of real cobtral

explais.)

Station Merleo could reveal Subject's sctivitins to the PHENOU

geTerment.

SECTION 111

COVER USED EY SUBJECT AND CASE OFFICER 14 THEIR MEETINGS.

Sebfect and Case Offleas meet elandestinaly in darkened areas of the

eity at sight.

Sabject, as an employe of the PBNEl labassy obtaina hia lafornation

fron bis follow workers and contacts.

INDICATE SERVICE FIR NEIGH SUBJECT THIRES ME (Mill WOrK, (IS Morkind).

Sabject kan be la woriing for Paare Intelllgence.

SECTION IV

INTELLIGENCE CONMECTICHS AND TRAINING

EXPLAI% SUBJECT'S ASIAO FASY OR DRESEA: CINDECTION BITH ANY OTHER INTELLIGENCE SERVICE, INDICATE THE KI-EX-

Is cucum

Subjoct is not know to have had any contact with any other latellizeno.

LEST OTHLE INUIVIVURLS LAgERia,

DOlOrEs CUEZAS de ETCETVS

Subjoctis brother, Ioos], rosident In Mexico

Jose CARiAL, Bacalante

IIYANIL 3 probably suspecta Sabg is in contest with co

3. EXPLAIS ANY TRAININE SUBIECE NAS MAD IS CLANCESTINE OPERATIONS.

subject has not had any orani trating 1n clandestine operatlons but

be 1s canding and Intelligent and has nado groat strides on lie em sino.

firut contaci rita his Cano Dificer.

SECTIONY

COLLADORATIDR POTENTIAL

IADICATE DINER FORTISA POSER SUBJECT GOULD DE MOST LIKELY TO COLLABORATE MITH DECAUSE IF HIS IDEOLOGY

ASSOCIATIONS, EXPLAIN.

Subjeet rould probably collaborate ulta an anti-Comit Caber rel.

18 1t #bold come to pomer.

SECRET

---

## Page 126

SECTION VI

MA3

WATER TE MAS FUADIC

SECRET

CFERAT:SOAL USE - CONTACT

CATE ACTIVITO 1E PHILH ME BOS ISINGIE DUE E TIFE OF IRICA-

contact mu nade alta to Case Officer.

BADILATE HID AND ERDOS ENDE

14e4H96115.

subject obtains inforation& ron mabers of the PSAl Eubway and

friends of FEEl its who he jeals.

INDICATE WHAT MAS BESS SONI SURIECT AS PO THE DISE:SITIDE OE INECRUAISDN ME ELRISES.

Subject bar been told that the laforation ho provides 18 forced

to Washington,

DETA!:

SIDISCT'S PROFUSEN NO DA CO PURE LIE GE DUTIES.

Hate corns and antuit a la tone 2 o

Subject! 7 activities are de acrod tore to penetration of a PaRTEE

5- DETAIL SUBJECT'S PROPOSEO AR-PR TYPE USE CR OUTILS.

Not applieable

SECTION VIB

PROPOSES LIAISEA OR CFERATICHAL ACTIVITY

DETAIL SUSIECT'S FEDROSED SIR'SCE TIRE CONTACT CE MREFATIIEEE USE:

A. MMERE SUBJECT IS MI DEFICIAL MEMBEN DE A FOREIDA COUTORSTET.

Not apolica:

•. THERE JUBJECT IS

MEMBER OF

AGENCY:

Hot apolleablo

SECTI

AGERCY RELATION SIIP MITH SUBJECT

BELATIONSHIP BITH SUBJECT:

E-E.

THORN TO SUBjECT.

TRAINEE, OPPOSITE NUADER; DENIALSATIS. IF

Sabjeet 18 going on salary as of 15 jum 63 at tbe rate of l000 peane

(320.00 D.S.) monthly.

Andrew S. PARE?S and Edward De. DAMMAl are laoma

• to, Subjact ader asad sames.

de see barget

SECRET

---

## Page 127

SECRET

LECTICA IN

JUALIFICATICOS FOR STACE NEERATIONS

SPIL

FOR STALE OPERATIOES.

ANILIPICS, TALENTS, IN BUALIFICATIGRS FESSESSIO DY SUBJECT MICH COULS CONCEIVASLY BE OF MALLE

Sabject 16 as artist

SECTION I

COMMITHENTS

15 ##OPOSED TO PAY

SUBJECT & MECCAS

DEDICATE THE MEERLE AMOURI, lE PAYMEET YO

COMMOLITIES.

SIMLA METHDO, SPECIEN ALD GINI DETAILS.

BE MADE IN EXCHANGE

18 of 15 June 1963, Subject idll be paid a montily salery of 1000 pessa.

*ROM I SES

sebjece and family

MADE TO SUBJECT. (ExaNDle:

Coast,

Jo conitarata of proclaus bot it 13 assuned that KUBEK soll assist

Sabject to leare the country 11 this is necessary because of lla activitina

03 LUBART'S beball.

at 6 8 6e8 8.8

LE AND SECURITY

INDICATE THE FIELO ASERCIES AND FIELD FILES GITH MICH S-RECT'S NAME HAS BIES CHECKED ANS THE RESULTS.

Statios f1je0.

LIOTBal and sany oiher contacta of tice dian Babesay.

INDICATE OTHER INVESTIGNTIFE

MEASURES TAKEO TO VERIFY BIGSIAPMICAL IGFORMATIDR FURNISHED BY SUBJECT.

foo para 1

INDICATE

SHETHER OR SO! FEOVISIDNAL

TERATICGAL DAFRONAL CO CEIATIDNAL AP.

PAOVAL FIA

SUBJECT'S USE HAS BEEN PREDiCUSEr SATA

Sebuittod 27 July 2962 MPIA 19455

DATE REPROVAL DETAINED

Babject in of high soral character, proud of his luily indezround.

Sincere, extremly security

conscious, raliaule, punctual aed chibly intellignat.

A comopoli-an Expe, sonihat arty, yet cogniecent of ihat 17 ties to get a

А• КАРАДІВ

SITUATICA Da

CE/OPERATIGRAL SECURITY

TDISCRETISA IN MICH SUBJLET MAY MAVE BEEN INVOLVE: AMICH MUST HE EVALUATED FROM A

SHENPOINT.

Dolores

Sabject's relationship with ODYCE intonom to Jose CARRAl Bucalante sad

CEVAS de BYCHBE pAT IXI 3150. CARRAl and de EXCITINE are not

believed to be neurity rials.

SECTICE

SUBJECT'S PERSiSAL HAGITS

USE DE RIDUOR, DRUES: COMING, PARADURS.

Subject drinka moderately. Suby 18 not known to hare any Deptant 11008.

SECRET

---

## Page 128

-=.

SECTION BITI

SECRET

1. INDICATE SUBJECT'S MIBE:ES OR

AVOCATIORAL TOTERESTS

INTEREST IN SPORTS, MUSIE, dIE.

Subject in Isterosted 1s rule, Iterature, and art.

SECTICN XIY

GENERAL

FREECATE WHETHER

OF A COLATRY OR REGICA aTHER

SUBE TELENGINE SUNT "S AND OTHER SMARACTERISTIES, ARE SUCH AS ME COUD PASS AS A GATIVE

Saoject 18 a Baropean ETpe, but Doeane of his Cuban acoent would

probably recogised as suct.

INDICATE WHETHER IAFCENATIJN IN PRO PARTS I AND II WAS

SETBIRED BY RESEAREM, CLANDESTIRE ASSESSMENT, FILES.

CORRESEOUDENCE OR OTHER MARS.

InfOrmation in PRa Parts 1 and 2 vas obtalred "bronzi rosaara Piles,

erents, and darest questioning.

te T

OTHER

THAN

•ка. 13b,

ROUTINE RETION IS REQUIRED, IF AND WHEN TERMARTIC% GE SUBJECT IS EFFECTED, FLEASE EXPLAIR.

No problons are envisage in terminating agent.

SECTION

EMERSONCY CONDITIONS RECONTACT ARRANGEMENTS

GIVE FULL DETAILS I-E BECOGNITION SIGNALS, S/NI WHERE CDULO CONTACI BE MASE: SHAT DONA FIDES COULD INDISTIAL

MAKING CONTACT USED

Subject 1s in possession of CO's "alephone nazber (hone) and COis cillon

phone.

CO car male contact with Subjeet at his hose ar at the FRaCt Embers,

11 neceszary Subjectaad CO usa the nam AJIlAR on the talephona.

SECTION XVI

• MISCALLANEGUS OPERATIDNAL GATA MID REMARKS

Subjeet, to is ill deposed toward PIPRIME, 18 andous to regula a

Long tors agent for QUICKà Him intoliteace, coupiod with bis contacts

In leftist and Comunist circios, naies lin an arcelient prospect.

ĐATE

SARGATURE OF APPROPRIATE SEICH

27 June 2963

5

SECRET

---

## Page 129

INSTRUCTION SHEET

EXFEDITE | SATE

INDICES:

SET

UP

FOR

58 REQUIRY

ISSUE OFERATIONAL APPECIAL

ISSUE FOSRISICALI CPEDATISHAI APPROVAL

EXTERO PEA

DAYS UNTIL

BEINSTATE PO

FOR

DAYS UNTIL

4A ALREAD

PERGARD BIALMRS JE

SECURITY OFFICE

SECRET

17 MAY 1663

(-101331

SET

UP

F OF

EXPEDITE I DATE

FBI

INDICES:

ESN"T w, CHI

HEQUEST "GREER L15T"

¡ BEQUEST RESULTS STAFFID DOSSIER BEVIEN

BEVIEW STAFF/I COLLATERAL INFIAWATIGA

REQUEST RESUL'S

TECH.

I#PERROGATION EBJA

SET

OFFICE

D141510

REVIEW OF SECRITY OFFICE DEFIET

ct/os

REVIEW OF SECURITY DFFICE COPCLADENT NEMO AT CAÍCA

CANCIL. PER CA/DA (Notice to division)

(see

"Fewark«"

{05 8+88075)

DECUES" 81 TRACES

BEQUEST FOR DFERATIOGAL AND

DIVISIONAL TRACES

REQUEST FOR FIELD TONCES

REQUEST

REMARES

Hestroy Fickles

To Archires

ATTACMED REFERENCE

'e attached

•TICALE

NOTICE

FIRST

SECOND

THIRD AAD

FINAL

707

SECRET

---

## Page 130

TO

SENDER WILL CHECK CLASSIE

LACLASSIFIED

T COSFILENTIAL

•: ON TON AND BOTTOM

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

OFFICIAL ROLTING SLIP

NAME AND ADDRESS

DATE

INITIALS

DI/OA

2 B 11

Atta?

ACTIO#

DIRECT REPLY

COMWENT

CONCSEREXCE

FILE

INFORMATION

I PREPARE REPLY

RECOMMENDATION

PETUEN

SIGNATURE

Remarks:

Ba; Inclosed 1s Meno re our problem case,

LITAMIL 9, prepared by the OTR training

officer who recently

ne. him in ler.

TI and retention

or destruction. Kike

C-10133

7ile

EPB

Imer 63

FOLD HERE TO RETURN TO SENDER

TROM • NAME ADORESS ANO PHONE MO.

DATE:

7-49% 237

CLASSIFIFD

ase perious editions

R1,6-

CONFIDESTIAL

28 Peb

SECRET

160;

ASSERT POINT ME DETE

1988 600-447381

---

## Page 131

28 February 1963

2O RANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: LITAKIL9, Report of TDY, Andrew S. Parmers

1.

uring 21-26 February 1963, Andrew S. PARKERS

travalled from Headquarters to Mexico City on TDY to train

LLTALIL9

on various clandestine, operational, techniques.

Including sw.

Upon arrival in Mexico CIty PARYERS ascertained

that LITAMIL9 allegedly became of noral inbibitions, was

unrilling to recelve training and also untilling to accept the

SY syntues Headquarters had issued for his,,

and which PARMERS

had carried to Mexico City.

Nevertheless, PARVERS met LITAHIL-9

three tires to determine the agants precise objections and to

overcome then if possible. Although the agents general

renintance was not avaroomo.

DARUERS AlA FOULON DIA TITANTIA

clandestine methods and techniques in a general way.

2.

The first weeting was held at the Station case

officerg home, "ith the Case Officer present.

LITAIL-9 0x-

plained hia rensong for refumin? to ba trained and for ..ot

being willing to communicate in SW with RUBARK while 1n Cube.

Generally LITANIL-D claimed that he le very nervous, and

Incapable of performing clandestine tasks "ithout having o

nervous bresidown and at the san. time getting himsell caugbt

in the act because of his general incompetaacy.

AlSO, LITAKIL-9

was planning to stay at bie brothers home in Cuba, and felt

it would be unethical and immoral for him to be cormunicating

clandestinely with KUBARK while accepting the hospitality of

his brother and sister-in-law who are staunch supporters of the

Castro rcaine.

These azreements obvioualy had already bean

presented to

the Case Officer who had already concluded that

LITAHIL-9 could not be moved from his position.

The agent

furthernore,

felt that there was no need for training or 5t

Ince he would be returning to Mexico after only three months

in Caba. He displayed a cable he had just received Iron his

Iather answering LITANIL 9'a query as to what might be bis

pert assigoment.

The cable stated that LITAMIL.9 would mast

Ilkely return to his present post in Mexico. The agent there

fore felt that upon his return to Mexico City, he could bo

debriefed by his Case Officer.

LITANIL-9 rejected all attempte

to convince him of our need for current into from Insida Cuba.

He vas adament when me pointed out that he might not return

80

Kexico

City

hoped, but might havo to remain in Cuba having

no means of contact.

If this happens he plans to remis his

position and return to Mexico as a private citizen, nigco he

already in a regintered "resident" of Mexico.

SEGRET

---

## Page 132

=2=

3.

on Friday. 24 February, PARKERS spent most of

the day visitlar alone with LITally at the litter'e apart

By the eat of the day LITAMll9 hed softened a little

and had reverled some of the personality traits

montioned

below.

LITINII9 also agreod to communicate with hio Case

Offleer through open code

City.

in lattere to his brother in lexico pifmen

He also was willing to meet inside YUBARk; preferably

11 the contact vas « diplomat but not Cuban.

He agreed to

take a set of cult links as boon tides.

As a suggestion, be

mentioned that

his friend, The Swiss Ambassador, row serving

In Madrid, Spala,

would be

an ideal pontact.

In revealing how

euch a contact could be performed ana in discussing LITAKIL9

modus reveadi ia Cuba,

there

was considerablo discussions

concerning operational Security and clandentine procedures

LITMII-9 cas apply while in Cuba.

LITAMIL during thin meeting also presented.

1n logical

sequence, his reasoas for bolieving that be

Mexsco Clev. Raudenllo. lo fasle that horseas the

fact that he has many contacts in Mexico City (whore ho as

lived and vorted for many years) and the fact that his sister-

1n-1aT 1n Cuba has a responsible position with considerablo

IDfluence in the Castro Government, be LITANIL-9 will be res

assigned to his present post in M-rico City after three monthe

of leave, consultations, and training in Cuba.

5. The third meeting ocurred in the evening of

25 Jebruar., In a car Dick up aituation, with the Case Officer

present.

This time, LITAMIL-9 was less villine to communicate

WIth TUBARS while in Cuba than be had been during the previous

meeting, but with

some reluctance, agreed to the use of open

code und to b

contacted by some diplonat.

This meeting.

there

fore, was a routine operational meeting, with his Case Officer

1r charge.

6.

Based upon their three meetings, PARERS formed

the following opinions of LITAXIL-9:

Fie 18 a shrowd oppor

tunist, Williaz to colloborate with XUBARY against the Castro

Goverament, but not to the poiat where his personal security

1. endangered.

Be dimlikes the Castro Regime because it has

fumbled no bad'g, and because the current Cuban officials are

crude and incompetant.

but definitely. feels that we

He greatly adairos the Ameriean people,

merely concerned about our

own national security and

well-doing.

LITAMIL 9 owes bin

first loyalty to the fine

arts,

han little Patriotic feelings

towarda Cuba, since he

bas lived in Mexico for no many years,

and han declared himself

to be a rasident of Mexico.

He 1a

now serving the Cuban Government simply because he had an

opportunity

(through bis

sister»in-law) to achlove officlal

statu#

and iscone and 161l1 renain 1a Mexico where most of bie

aches.

#0-41481981

SECESTI

---

## Page 133

GOTT

personal friende reside.

Although at firet appearance, and according to

his oun opinion statemeats, LITAMIL-9 anpears to be extremoly

norvous becaume of him clandestine activities in behalf of

KUBARK and agalant Cuba, after some discussion It van spparont

that be actually relishes these clandestine actions that he

would have angaged in then long before he did,

and tbat he

would have continued a covert relationship with KUBAil even alter

Castro falls,

serving either in Mexico (wherg he has mazy

contacts of inter:st to KUBARK) or in Cuba 1a sons post In

Bome future goverament.

"e bag excellent ragport with hie

present KUBARK case officer.

He statos that as lon? as kubark

remalos willing to accest chat he hag defia!te porsonal limi

tations to his cover and cannot be trainad

(since be can perform only those clandestine tasks

related

or induced to do

anything else) he will gladly continue collaborating with

KUBARE an long as desired.

8.

Actually, PARVERS feels that LITAyIL-g rould

do most anything

We

would denire 11 KUBARK would someday

establish some control over him.

His preseat rerarks concerning

his moral qual-o are artillelal. He has great appreciation

for shredneas and double play, and oponly unts haviag

engaged 1a Lt all 11a 115€.

On many occasions he admits that

he has accomodared himself to a situation for profit or because

he. knew that he could turn the tables eventually on big ad

Versarles.

When he 1a off guard he admits to being a cool

operater who can scheme and work behind big adversaries' backs.

shows many sigas of enjoying doing what he does for and

with his present TUBARX case officer.

9.

Ia mummary, although LITAMIl did not accept

training or sw

In the standard mense, PARMERS believes that thes

agenta reluctance was based on his desire to take for ricks.

The agent in competent, his moral inhibitioas are probably

faked.

He in convinced that he will return to Mexico soon, and

desires to continue serviaz KUBARK if no greater rink 1s 1n-

volved.

Since ECBARK at present has no clear control (monetary

or Ideological) over LITAIL-O, It was difficult to impose

KUBARI'S W111 over him.

But he le very willing to parlorn for

KUBARE within the limitations he asts, and 11 momeday ve can

Batinly. some personal need he might have, ho bas the sot ential

of becoming a good controlled agent for KuBARk.

He fa Intell

igent and by nature ho seems to

Instinctively conduct him

clandestine operations in a securo

manner.

Andrew 3. Parmers

OTR Training Officor

SEGMET.

€:6:71: "* 1:!

46::

---

## Page 134

C#

191331

Glace file

18 February 1963

NenORATOr FOR Director of ralaing

ISTANTIC

8 Chief, Covert Staininz/Operations Behool

Chier, TSD Traiting

BUBJECT

8 Loquest for Covert Tratning of luis ALZZZU Banto

1. It 1a requested that full tine covert treinias be prorsded et

Mexico CIty, Merdoo fos approzinately ten days beginning on or about

19 February 1963 fOr LUiS ALBERU Edato.

asle Irinciples of clandestine tradecraft to better prepare his se an I:

agant operating Inside a dended area.

a In additica to the barte tradecrait, training abouid emphasts

sporting techniques end include spropriate secret vriting lastruction

an erranced by the case officer with too.

A. Subject 1n a PsauNa cultural attache in the lubaay 1n kerico

city.

A Provinionni Operational Aroral vas requested ca 26 July 1962

Trainins Offioer /ges

APPROTED:

inter, Special Affairs StaPt

Derte

84H0.1

ERch-06 797 #39g9

---

## Page 135

..'M

CORICUEPIICES :

Cosster Intellugenoe Elart

DD? Brindeg & Qualirication

Boviou Officer

Deste

Deste

---

## Page 136

C#

19/33/

Peace file

28 February 1963

MEHORAYDON VORI Director of tateing.

ATTENTICI

8 Chial, Covert Grataing/Operations School

Chial, TID Frelitas

mr : logant for Court Intaing of Luis NazaU Bouto

!. It la requested that full tin covert training be provided a

unico City, Mexloo los approcitely tan days begining on or seou

19 February 1963 I0S LUIS ALBERU Barto.

base principles ot laden tarat to better prese his ne daya

nant operating inside a dended area.

3. In addition to the barle tradecrat, tradatos abovid embasire

reporting rochniques end inclade epropriate scret vriting lastraction,

an arrencod by the cana office vita rao.

Bubject la a PARUNE cuitoral attache In the labassy in Mexico

A Provinional Operational Approval mus requested on 26 July 1962

5. Responslola Sondonartars cane 08510eT for the tra1a1ng 18

Ho I. Nullor, extention 6172.

trainine officer 0

PEROIED:

Date

---

## Page 137

CONCURRIT C25 8

Counter Intelligence Ear!

IDE ITRIRIDE & GUAILFICETIORE

Enviou Officer

Data

Dute

---

## Page 138

15 Heret 1063

549 69-308

42/3/10x109

132208

B4S7902

8 818/10E

1 57990755 0E OPtIcial 201 FLE

Ananitted berrith for juar retention, action, nod eleposition

mo the folloing listod offsedal 201 {iles:

301-330173

201-327609

201-352935

E01-35255%

143/208

Distribution:

1 - Addresson

1 = 845/208

1 - SAS/ SECRITARIAT

1 - OPS SUPPORT

1 - 1H/008/000

- C/CI/CA

J- RID/TILIN

This illigible

Fetvs toe

МАл 15

4 32 PM 83

merely tranafers responshit,

---

## Page 139

25 Kinet 2063

BAD 69-203

MATANU: 50%

sa/3/Nacies

TRON

843/208

Immitted bruith for your retention, artioti, nad diaponition

mo the tolloring listed obticini am fs lou:

INDU In

221-330173

202-32,609

201-393935

20d-35250%

Kay Ela

Matribution:

I. = Addressoe

2. = BA8/20B

- SA3/SECPITARIAT

•OPE SUPPORY

- NH/C08/000

c/CI/aA

• RID/FIX

i got.

МАя 15 4 32 PN 73

This illiged it mindy tramefus responsibl

!.:?

---

## Page 140

UNCLASSIFIED

INTERNAL

U.

ONLY

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

CONFID-YTIAL

I SECRET

SUBECT: 1004080501)

FROM:

EXTENSISNS

CATE

25 Feb 53

TO: (Officer desynation, room number, and

bandding)

1.

DATE

OFFICERI

INITIALS

RECERFED

# stora.

PORWARDED

CHIET, CI/0A

23 - 11

3.

1S.

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERMAL

USE OMLY

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 141

SECRET

I9 february 1963

HENCENDUM 5O2:

SUBROT

:

Thief, 5=/01

LITE/S, 0 - 101331

The red report entitled Foreign Folitical laters

Cuba and sent to this iconcy ca 26 Decerber 1951, could not

• be located in :I or S15 files, Three such reperis dated

29 Jecember 1961 with the same title sere obtained, but th=

Subiect, was not referred to in an of the shree reserve

ES WTO E

Listribution:

criginal i do sddressee

File

EAS

1 MAR 1953

SECRET

Danded trea automatic

5:922991:7 851

---

## Page 142

UNCLASSIFIED

INTERNAL

U

ONLY

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

CONFID YTIAL

ES SECRET

SUBJECT: 1Optonoi;

FROM:

* т

do MOUOLAN

SA/SPC SPT

3= 1l

TO:

Officer desperions, room number, and

burlding)

1.

EXTENSION

DATE

25 Feb 53

DATE

REGENED

FICER

ITIA

2.

3.

13.

15.

POMA

I-A2

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE OWLY

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 143

-

SECRET

19 sabruary 1963

HENCOUM 102:

SUS20T

:

Thier, 5e/DA

LITES, ü - 101331

The Fa report entitied Foreign Folitical

"atters

Cuba and sent to this jency ce 23 Decerber 1951, could not

be lecated in 1I or 515 filese three such reports

dated

29 Jecenber 1961 sith the same title vere obtained,

but th

Sabject, was not referred to in any of the three resorts.

c/sas

E3. NN 10 €

Distribution:

original & 1 - sddressee

Zile

EAS

1 MAR 153

SECRET

Dontad ten Brieralis

$59999611^% 888

---

## Page 144

SECRET

PROVISIONEE OPERATIONAL APPROVAL

MENORANDUM FOR: C=LE?,

- Lower lids

6-101331

SUBJELT

REFERENCE: Your Vercrandm, Iated

25 July 1952

A Provisional Operazional Approval 1s grantes for the use of this Subject

as set fort: belor.

A Provisional Operational Ayroval Issued by CI Staff grants the sace

suthority, oo a temporery basis, ver tze use of an individual as tre succority

granted in ae Operziional Approial inless ottemise specified by C/CA.

sased, bowerer, only on prelimiramy file checes and

investigation and 1e so-

ject to a fater final review when all pooretendan ta asaptini.

POl is granted only for training of Subject.

Approval for operational use of Sibject Is deferred pendirg satislactory

resolution c derogatory Inforsation, which CI Staff does not consider to

hare boen aceomplished

To process the Ocerational Apreoral, full infortation (crapleted PRQ

Parts I and I:) sust ie submitted as soon as possible and not later "han six

(6) months iron this date. An Operational Approval ¿ill follow wen all

Inestigation is completed and upor the receipt of satisfactory 75Q Parts E

and II. Cancellation must be requested if use of Subject by interested Di-

risions ceases.

APPROVAL

CI/CERATIONAL APPROTAL AUD SUPPORT DIVISION

F-##

125. 412

SECRET

20 Feb 1963 pre

---

## Page 145

SECRET

PROVISIONAL OPERAT: ÓNAL APPROVAL

MEMCRANDUM FOR:

c-201331

SUEJECT

LITANIL?

REFERENCE: Your Verorandum, Isted

25 July 1960

A Provisional Operational Approval is granted for the use of this Subject

set fort beloi.

A Provisional Operational Approval Issued by CI Staff grants the same

suthority, o a terporer, basis,

of an indiridual as

granted in sa Operational Approval inless otterise specified by CI/p. It is

sased, however, only on preliminary file checes and investigation and la sua

ject to a fartcer final review when all inrecessa ta sayiimi.

POl Is granted galy for training of Sabjecte

Approval for operational use of Subject 18 deferred pending satisfactory

resolution a derogatory irforsation, shich CI Staff does not considar to

have been accompliched.

To process the Operational Approval, full inforration (completed PRQ

Parts I and I=) must he submitted as soon as possible and not later than siz

(6) wonths frx this date. An Operational Approval ¿ill folle bien all

in'estigation is completed and uper the receipt of satisfactory FIQ Parts I

and II. Cancellation must be requested if use of Subject by interested Di-

risions ceases.

aPPROVAL

CI/PERATIONAL AFPROVAL ATD SUPPORT DITISION

# 38

125

138

SECRET

DaTE

20 Pub 1963 pre

---

## Page 146

* '**

SECRET

DATE

IASTRUCTION

SEEET

EXPEDITE DATE

I-DICES:

2 0 FEB 1953

SET LE SCR P.O.A.

EXPEDITE TDATE

FBI

INDICES: 1

CASE NO.

C- 101331

SET

UP

FOR

SE INQUIRY

GOV°T #. CHE

MUSE

¡AREA:

ISSUE OPERATIORLL APPRCHAL

REQUEST "CATEN LIST"

ISSUE

PROVISIÓNAL GPERATIONAL

RECUEST DESULTS STAINID BOSSIES RENTEN

PERTENG

POA FOR

DAYS UNTIL

REVIES STAFF/D COLRATENAL BAFORTATIDN

SZCASTATE FOA FOU

DAYS LAMiL

REQUEST RESULTS TECA.

INTEMAGGATION FRON

SECUE 17*;

OFFICE

orreston

"CONARD ATTACHHENT TO DIVISION

BEVIES OF

SECURITY REFICE REFORE AT CRIOS

•I#MARO AYTACHIENT TO SECURITY DEFICE

REVIES DE SECURITY AFFICE CONCURRENT MEMO AT CA/DA

CASCEL PER

8.50

metice

division)

HERO DATED:

CaNCER PER

C119A (Notice to derisina)

(See

•Remarka"

for casson)

REVIEO CE FAI REPORT AT CI/DA

RECUEST REVIEN OF ATTACHED REFERENCE

REGUEST RI TRACES

FILE

REQUEST FOR OPERATICHAL AND DIVISIONAL TRACES

TICKLE

#EQUEST FOR FIELD TRACES

NOTICE

FIRST

SECCAD

THIRD AND

FEQUEST

590 ї

1772*

THER

REMAINS

Pot is granted og for trainis. of Sabiet.

is defered parting satisfarting reset here m?

which had STit

derogatory.informat.com

accomplished to the stifiction i at st.

consider to have been accimplisked.

707

858

SECRET

---

## Page 147

SECRET

SATE

INSTRUCTION

SPEET

2 0 FEE 1953

CaSE to.

C-101331

SET LF

FOR

EXPEDITE

INDICES:.

P.0

EXPEDITE DATE

FBI

INDICES:

SET

FOR

0 A

IP INQUIRY

LSE

AREA:

ISSUE OPERATIONEL APEROVAL

REQUEST "GREEN 115T"

SISUE PROVISIONAL SPERATIONAL APFRIVAL

BECUEST BESULTS STATE/D DOSSIES REVIEN

EXTENS FOA FOR

DAYS LATEL

REVIES STAFF/D COLLATERAL INFORMATIETA

DI: AS ATE POA §00

DAYS LATE

REQUEST RESULTS

INTEROGATION FROM

DIVISION

OFFICE

* #PADE ATTACHRENT TO OIVISION

REVIEN OF SECURITY BEFICE REPORT AT ER/OA

"CONADO ATTACHMERT TO SECURITY DEFICE

REVIER OF SECURITY DEFICE CONCURRENT MENS AT CI/OA

PER

notice

DIVISICA MEMO DATED:

REVIER OF FBI REPDRY AT CI/DA

CANCEL

PER

CIOR (HatiCo

(See •Renarks"

for reason)

0182905)

REGUEST REVIEN DF STACHED REFERENCE

REQUEST RI TRACES

FILE

REQUEST FOR OPERATICHAL AND DIVISPONAL

TICKLE

REQUEST FOR FIELD TRACES

NOTICE

SECOND

THIRD AND

FINAL

REQUEST

F90i

THER

21.5

Pots is greate only for training of Saliet.

* for for sportine use f Subjeet

is deferred panding satisfacting resolution

derogatory information,

which had steft

accomplishet

onsider to have been

tart he scamp liked!

707 0s1

SECRET

---

## Page 148

-...

TC

"'RECTE

FRÜM! :

MaxIcc Ci?!

ACTION:

TrAiO

IXFO :

Jop, Cl/eps, Cláie 2, 61/ce, var i, s/e 2

iip it tia??

12u"115

io ¿gst,

detauls about

ente

family

218 ANGO B168 C1T0 Ta: 1569

223

V12 555s (But 975t1) 1

MaIae (1N 433549

É'desa mine

w i H4, cnzi)

•10 LUIS ALDERU SOUTO CUORN SULTURAL ATTACUE VERLO BOUN GIRCA

1915 OVIRDG 320148

FAT12?:

PRRRING ANRAS 2O0N CoOInC FiAkCEE

HOTHER: JOSEFISA SOUTO DORE LA CORUNA SPARIA GADIER 2E:2IG WAVAR

NO FURTEEE CITR EATAZRO IN 1040 KAZRIES KLARA VERR TACZ SEaGSS

DORI WIEHA nüSTHiR, 3R7TISH CETIZaNA DIVOROED 1S5S. HO CHllO2E.

OCCUPATI0!:.

ARTIST. XAS DOR: EEPLOTES EUSAH FORRIOH SERNIOE SINCE

JUNE 19590 SALARY DEC S3 ENCRYRRNG 222255217A720% ALLOUANIES:

$202-D3 "TASE WOHE" DAYO PRE0U E AODRESE MIGHELET 7EUEG MSXICO,

Daão 330.2223: ALDEATO EARRIEE SONGEPCIO: "SOHOEE" EERNMIDEZ,

CiSTRO SECRETARY, LEONEE NCH CAEERO NUARDO FOZNEALY ENPLONEE 3Y

BnsuCo tuand ano J2aaR WORi DHIAOXH6:.0832025 CrX 578 °2402 293R3

TA CIY. SPENG SPAES: TRE Q0 COGNGEG: GRUWR-2, 22102-1,

L1•M14-10 2421.

2Ó STATIGT FRNCES RENERA MNTUNGCÀ, LIRRNDLA, GIRAEIE-E, LITAHIC-3A

LITAMIINT ANL CONCILRR ALDERUH TI-CO012570

Crio2: 641602245)

792/349

REPRODUCTION DY OTNERT AE TRE ISSI UEEi

Coop".i

•stasl ort eokein.

---

## Page 149

3008

in l

LAGE

E:D DE VESSAGE

C/S COMINT: REQUESTIO REVISE STATUS ALSO TRACES FOR PER PECCESSING.

SECRET

REPROCUCTION BY OTHER

CFFICE iS FROMIRITEO. DI

---

## Page 150

TO: DIRECTO

FROM : MEXICO CIT!

ACT:ON:

INFO :

1°277

217 1N50 BIE CARE BORE 1909

rEVie i55(But 995E1) 1

Mors zone (11 4133554

16 LUIS ALBERU SOOTO CURRE ELTURAL ATTRONE VERIO SONA CIRCA

1515 OVIRDO SPAINA FAMI22: WDI0 ACID 2001 0O01I0 PARCE.

HOTHER: JOSEFISA SOUTO DOR! LA CORONA SPAINE CARRER LEIKE LAVAS

NO FURTIER DATA MATERRAIN 1040 2A2RIES KUARA VERA CACZ SURGES

BORN VIDA AUSTRIA, BRITIGH CITIZENO DIVORCED iSSS. NO CHILDREN.

JUNE 1955. SALARY DOC SO INCONSING REPRESSITATIO: ALLOUANCES:

$202.RO "TANE WOULD PARO PRECENT AGDRESEE MICHELER 7932G MEXICO,

Do. 9202:273: MOEATO MARNIEE CONGEPOIOW "CONCHA" FERNANDEZ,

CASTRO SECRETARY, LEONE NOT REYENG REGIOO FORMERLY EXPLOYED 3!

CUBAN GOUT HIS THO SIOTENG ME: LIVING VEGG WEDRE CHE CHENG COUSUC

TaNT CITY, OPENNG SCANESH TOO DO 6000:0290 GRROWER, 22152-1,

LITHIL-1& 3/21.

2, STATICS ERNCES REVENG DANGERGED, BIRDERERE, DERANIETE, LITRNEU-3.

LITAMIL-T ALL CONCICER AL22RU: X2-060192270

720804

as sons.

REPRODUCTION BE OTHERE AN THE ICE CEREA

---

## Page 151

FAGE

Da:2:26 MonDAD C02K60 A68 CrE 67.600% 17660166 72Y2209 30333

EIR STATE. POOCHING POR PART E 27 GUY 520

END OF MESSAGE

C/S COMINT: REQUESTIO ROVISE STATUS ALSO TRACES FOR POR PROCESSINO.

SECRET

REPROCUCTION BE OTHER THAN ISSING GEFICE iS FRCHARITEDO GIA

---

## Page 152

SECRET

28 Zebramy 1963

MEMORADON POlS MroctOr of Iralains

B087ET

chies, Covert Iutring/Ogerations Echoc

mel, DaD traliar

& Roqueat for Covert Praladay of Iris ALBRRU Bonto

a cujoctira ol the training in to provide the mubject with ti

mde principles of clandestine tindecrult to better prepare hís so l

agent operating innide a dented us.

3. In midition to the barle tredecret, trainins aboria engimesse

porting technique ud inclus upromite mcret writing initaction,

ma semenged by the can cition 11th taD.

raving unrieer/&As

APPROVED!

Bneci

Arura Start

Dete

18+748644 879

Seciais chirat

---

## Page 153

SECRET

amber late

Due Fraining & Genlissontions

Beview OffLese

=i canines

Origo & 1 ~ Addresses

1 - C/*50/ TRO

• Ci Staft

- SOP/TRO

1

- C/SA3

1 - 543/280

(18 Feb. 1953)

SECTS!

---

## Page 154

SECRET

13 Putransy 1963

& Chier, Corert Iratring/Oserations Setool

BOLET

& dogast for Comert Tradning of Lis Il88RU Boato

Lo It ln rogasted that tall tine covert treining be morteod ut

extoo City, Meados for aprcadmetaly tan daya begirina on ar mbor

9 Febrary 1963 far lia ALman Entr

8. The objactivo al the treintos in to provsde the mubject vith the

Dando Irincipios ol clesdestin tradecrult to better propire him es un PI

agent opurating imeido a denied es.

3. In daition to the burle tradores, tratatiz abould emponise

suporting techaiges sal inclate apoprlate meret writing tantructios,

na amped by the car citio tita DeD.

Bo. Dabject la a PruCa cutamel ettar 1= the stany la Faxico

city. A Poriatoni Operational Approval ma requertad os 26 Jaly 1969

and 1ts statan 1l being chochedo (C-10233%à DPOB: 2925, Orlada, pata)

5.

Insyomel he Hendquartors cans aftos for the training 1o

N. Be MolleT, extension 6iTês

Training Orrierr/3A3

Lamerca

CBNTAI1I

decidas

---

## Page 155

SECRET

BOn training & GanTr

Daview OffLem

Deto

000056640 dunte

Grigo & 1 - sadresnes

1 - C/D/T30

7 • CI Start

1. - JDP/T30

1 - C/513

1 - 513/780

(18 Feb. 1963)

---

## Page 156

SECRET

LATE

REQUEST FOR INFORMATION AND REVIEW

29 August 1952 m

TO:

Attra

FROM: CEIZE, CI/DA

C-101231

SUBJECT:

LITAMIL /9

IN CADER THAT FURTHER COASIDERATICH MAY BE GIVEN YOUR REQUEST FOR APPROVAL IN THIS CASE. IT IS REQUESTEI

YOU FURNISH THIS CFFICE THE INFORMATLON

CHECKED BELOW.

OR FEVIER ESFOFMATICE AS

INDICATED.

FIELD

TRaCES

TRACES

SHÉRATISHAL AND DIVISION TRACES

DEVICE DE STATE/S GOSSIER

DEVICE OF STAFFIE COLLATERIL

1855804. 109

*EVICO OF SECURIDE CEE-REPORT A-ELIDA

BEVIEN CE SEC. DEF, CIRCATENE MEMO AT CHIGA

PENDEN CE FOS HEFCAS AT CLICA

SHEEN LIST

HOTICE:

NEMANES:

GIMERS (Ste Renerka)

SECOND

THIRB 4NВ

Flease come to CI/C! to discass results of Field traces.

281-379604

S800

Mate tat santa.

889

SEGRET

---

## Page 157

SECRET

EATE

REQUEST FOR INFORMATION AND REVIEW

29 August 1952 m

TO:

Attns

FROM: CETEE, CI/OA

C-101331

SUBJECT:

LITAYIL/9

ORDER THAT FURTHER

CONSIDERATION

REGUEST FOR APPRCVAL

IN THIS

IT IS REQUESTER

YOU FURNISH THIS CFFICE THE INFORMATION CHECKED

eELON.

EXFOFMAT I Citi AS

INTICATED.

HENIED US STATE/S GOSSIER

DEVIES OF STAFFIE COLLATERIL

TRACES

IPÉRATIONAL AND DIVISION TRICES

#EVIES OF SEC. DEF. CONC RGENIE MENS AT CIÍDA

REVIEN CS FEI REPCAT AT CI'CE

OTHERS (See Renarks)

ж2218 115.7

NOTICE:

REMANKE.

32I003

Please

come to CI/CA to discuss results of Field traces.

281-379604

680 1

Fx5т 130 16353

SECRET

---

## Page 158

SECRET

OATE

REQUEST FOR INFORMATION AND REVIEW

L September 1952 su

TO:

attas

FROM: CEREE, C1/CA

C-101331

SUBJECT:

* ORDER THAT FUETHER CORSIDEPITION MAY DE GIVEN

THAT YIU FLEWISH THIS CFFICE THE INFCRUATICH CHECKED

YOUR REDUEST FOR APPROVAL

34 THIS CASE

IT IS REDLESTES

BELOR.

REVIEW INFORMITION AS INDICATED

pa: 1!

48GAELY

OFÉBRIIINAL dID SEVISION TRACES

HEILETE 36 TECHICAL BATERROGATID%

GHEE#

LIST

3F

STAFFiD

STAFFiD COLLATEEAL

"AFDRAATIIN

SECUEUTY OFF.

DEBTED CE

SEC. DEF, CON-URRINCE MENS AT IIIGA

FBI REPORT AT EXISA

OF ATTACHED REFERENCE

OTHERS (See Benarke)

Please Iccate FI reports referred to in attachment and advise CI/al ol

significence of the oration

787 Trosas Carroll, IF.

8-4%

889

SECRET

---

## Page 159

SECRET

DATE

REQUEST FOR INFORMATION AND REVIEW

TEW

L September 1552 m

TO:

Attas

FROM: CHIEF, Ca/SA

C BiD.

C-101331

SUBJECT:

LIPAYIL/9

IN CEDER THAT

URTHER CONSIDEFATION MAY BE GIVES

YOUR

REDUEST FOR APPROVAL IA THIS CASE.

IT BE REQUESTES

THAT TOU FLEEISH THIS CFFICE THE INECRWATICA CHECKED BELOW.

OR REVIEW INFORWITION

INDICITED.

=02!

TAICES

WB4121w

TRACES

TECTRICAL INTERRCGATION

GREEN

PEVIES DE STARED DOSSIE"

DENIÉO OF STAFF I COLLA-FAL PAFSAMATIIN

REDIES OF SECUMITY OFF- MENDOT AT CI'LA

REDSEE CE SEC- SEE, COOCURRENCE MEMO AT EITA

REFIEO SF FBI REPORT AT CIÍDA

REVIEW OF ATTACHEO REFERENCE

STrERs (See Remarks)

KARAN. AM;

Please locate PI reports referred to in attackrent and advise CI/GA o°

significence of the oration

787

SECRET

---

## Page 160

SEGRET

3^959^562

Deputy Director of Searity (IOS)

C101332

1279 029

To Reference 13 sade to your senorandan dated 27 Jely

1962 sherein Provisional Operational iperoral Interest, only,

ras Indicatod for possible use of Subject as an ament in

Mesdeo by I under Project lI

2o On 39 July 1962 your offica was adriaed telephana

sally that Office of Secwity Indices contained no record

of the Subjects

3o On 17 hurst 1966 you were antisod that the reI

has sot conductod an investization on the Sabject, Havenur,

tbe IBl ande reference to data se "Foreien Political l'atters

Caba" which was sent to this A enty on 23 jecender 1961.

The date of said report is 50: fives, boiever, 1tis cnon

that the Pal has provided this diency ich amerous reports

so captioned, on a contimous baris. Urios of Socurity

Indices vere searched for the sore reierenced report re

coired on 2ê jecenber 194, with nega'fre resulto, berefore,

It is assured it is availabie in fil, IN OT MILITISIOn

Diles.

lie to father action is contemplated in this case v

loss otherrise regreated oy your offloe.

FOR THE DIE DETOR OF SECURITIS

---

## Page 161

SEGRET

Chiel, (I/01

Deputy Director of Searity (I03)

C 101332

#279

009

39109.52

Referace 15 made to Jour neuranda dated 27 July

1982 therein Provisional Operational iperoral Interest, onlys

was indicated for possible use of Subject as an arent in

Mendeo by Is under Project WAT

2. On 32 Jaly 1962 your office was adrised telopbral-

cally that Diffee of Security Indices contained no record

of the Subjecte

3o On 17 August 1962 you vere acrisod that the reI

has not conducted an investization on the Subject, Haverer,

the FBI ande reference to data re "Forcion Political l'attere

Caba" which ins sent to tils A ency on 28 incorioer 1961.

The date of said report is so. dies, borever, it is know

that the Fel as provided this lency vich umeroos reporta

so captlonad, on a continuous baris.

0f8i00 of Sorrity

Indi cey vere searched for the moore referenced repart me

calved on 2ê Decenber 194, sith negatire romulte, Lerefore,

It is assumod ii is availabio in EIl, IN C5 M IITIs103

Li. No father action is contemplated in this case un

lass otharrise recreatod or your office.

FOR TER DIE SETOR OF SECURITIS

1"27

cuncl

---

## Page 162

SECRET

PEQUEST FOR INFORXATION AND REVIEN

Li September 196% 899

10:

ToNi

FROM: CIF22, 31/04

C-1C1331

SUBJECT:

LITA: IL/

IN CROER

THAT

THAT FURTHER

CONSIDER..EION WAY

EE GIVEN

YOLA

REGUEST FOR APPROVAL

1& THIS CASE.

IS REQUESTED

FLEMISM THIS

CFFICE THE

IAFCRUSTICE CHECKED BELON.

REVIET

IRFOFULTION AS ARDICATED.

F70

8 9

FIELD TORIES

TRACES

C*ÍRATIONAL

AHS

RESUITS DE TECHNICAL IATEZDOSATICS

LIST

SOTICE:

DEMARKS:

S8499

2? 408P26X 1805604

FENTED ZE STAFEID COLLATETAL IOISAUATIIA

824124

DFF, ESOILIGENCE MEDS AT CIGA

HEPCAT AT CIIDE

TIRETIEN

STaIRS (See Rexerks)

Flease locate El reports referred to in attachment and advise CI/CA of.

significesce of the infcration.

/s/

t ibn"=:03

#O*H

8-80

889

+0 €

SECRET

4201

---

## Page 163

SECRET

=a"E

PEQUEST FOR INFORMATION AND REVIEW

TIW

4 Septerber 1962 m

TO:

140n1

FROM: CitE?, 51/0A

€ $3.

C-101331

SUBJECT:

LITA IL/S

IN CROER THAT FURTHER CONSIDER.

FION

THAT YOU FLENISH THIS CFFICE

REE A CAVES VEN

YOLA

REGLEST FOR

APPROVAL

14

THIS

CASE.

IS REQUESTED

CHECKED

BELON.

REVIET

IAFOFEATIOR AS

I4OICATED.

AAMDRNTCTON 17A644

GOLES LIST

REMIER OF

STAFF/ 155550e

RENIES CE STAFFID COLLATEFEL IMFSANATIIN

OF

SECURITY OFF.

REVIES

5Eс.

OFF.

EEREUSRINCE MEMO ET ERICE

REVIEN IF GEI

REPCAT AT СІЗА

I REVIENCE ATTA-HED REFERENCE

OT-IRS (See Reserds)

1 51-57

Please locata Tal reports referrod to in attachment end advise CI/CA ol

significesco ci the iricrsation,

18/

18 #

220- 9:8 149

889

SECRET

4201

---

## Page 164

SECRET

CATE

INSTRUCTION SHEET

3 1 AUG 152

CASE 0S.

C- 10/331

SF.T 1 EOR

EXFELITE

INDICES:

vale.

F. O-A.

EXPEDITE DATE

FB1

INDICES:.

SET

LP

FOR

SE SHOUIRY

USE

AREA:

15 SUE

REQUIST "GREEN LIST"

ISSUE PRCVISIONAL OPENATIONAL ASPROVAL

REQUEST RESULTS STAFFID

ERTENS FER FIR

DAYS USTIL

REVIEN STRFFIO COLLATERAL INTDRGATIDR

DELASTATE PON EDA

DATS NATAL

REQUEST RESULTS TECH.

INTERROGATIDE FACH

SECURITT

OFFICE

DIVISIDA

FORBARI

ATTAIHHERT TO DIVISICE

REYSEN OF

SECURITO OFFICE REPORT AY CS/DA

FORDADO ATTACHHENT TO SECUAITY OFFICE

REVICO DF SECURITY OFFICE CONIURDER! MENO AT CI/DA

¿so notice io division)

CANCEL

PER CI/DA (Notico lo division)

for season)

#EQUEST GIVILE OF ATTACHED REFIRENCE

DEGUEST #I TEACES

FILE

REQUEST FOR OPERATIONAL AND DIVISIONAL TRACES

TICALE

REQUEST FOR FEELO TRACES

MOTICE

FIRST

FINAL

REQUES!

. ::

OTHER

REMATAS

Please locate HBD reparto rifered te

in attachment o chiuse C, JOA A

sue ne of the restie.

Ture to Proe. Lat.

Per. allack easu125.0.пиsa.

707 438

SECRET

---

## Page 165

INSTRUCTION SHEET

EXPELITE

INDICES:

DATE

SET

FOR

S* INOUIDY

ISSUE SFESATIORAL APPROVAL

ISSUE PESTISIOHAL OPERATIONAL APPROVAL

EXTERY FIR F39

DA*S LETIL

DEBASTATE POA FOR

DATS JATIL

SECRET

CATE

3 1 AUG 1€52

CASE RS.

С - пр/331

SET I

FOR

P.О.А.

EXPEDITE DATE

FBI

INDICES:

GON'T H. CHE

USE

AREA:

REQUEST "EFFIN LIST"

REQUEST RESULTS STAFF/D DISSILE DEUSER

REVIER STIFF/D COLLATERAL INEORUATION

REQUEST RESULTS

TECH.

INTERROGATICA FRON

SECURITY

OFFICE

DIVI5ID8

REVIEN OF SECURITY OFFICE

PEPORT AL

OFFICE CONCURRENT MEMO AT CA/CA

REFERENCE

TORIARD ATTACHHENT TO SECURITY GEFICE

1650

CANCEL PER El/DA (Notice to davision)

(5ce •Lenards"

for reason)

REQUEST REVIEW

REQUEST #I TRACES

FILE

REQUEST FOR OPERATIONAL AND DIVISIONAL TRACES

TICKLE

REQUEST FOR FIELD TRACES

NOTICE

FIRST

SECCID

IF IMAL

REQUISE

-==!:

OTHER

REMAGES

Please locate IBD reports refered to

in attachment o chise C1/07 7

spence of the upperittie.

Tate to Proe. bait.

Ph. attack cape 75.0.mиa.

707

SECRET

#&*$

---

## Page 166

chia rolled

UNITED STATES GOT NIMENT

Memorandum

SECRET

TO : Chier, CI/c

FROM : Deputy Diractor of Security (ICS)

SUBJECT:

C-101331

#279 089

DATE:

30 AUG 1552

Reference is nade to jour menorancon datai 27 july

1952 wherein Forisional gerational proral interest, only,

vas irdicated io= cossiole use si sucisco as ar agert in

"exico by zi uncer Project éule.

2.

on 3u cily 19ce your praice as aarisea telephoni-

cally that Oriico o° Security iraices containec no record

ato the Bringent.

3o On 17 10 ust 1962 you nore adrised irat the EI

has not conducted an investition or the subject, bowever:

the E2l nade reference to cat re "Foreim Political latters-

Cuca nhich vas sent to this derer o= 20 deceiper 1901.

The date of said report is no. iven borever,

that the 13l las provided this i ency with murerous reports

so centioned, on a continuous casis.

indice: were searched for tre above referenced ragot re-

ceived on 2E recenber 1966, mia nestire resulis. Merefore,

it is assured it is available in 20, Fi or sa birision

Lia lio. frter action is contemplated in this case un-

less othernise recuested to ros office.

FOR. TIE DESCRCR 03 SEaRICT:

06 яру

frictor ia itite

29. HaGa

EROT 1

Exchuted ana scramat

SECRET

---

## Page 167

SECRET

Trocy

USITED STATES COL-NYMEST

Memorandum

TO

: Criel, Ci/Ct

FROM : Deputy ulroctor si Security (ICS)

SUBJECT:

C-101331

#279 089

DATE:

30 AUG 1552

Referance is nade to your naturandon date: 27 July

1952 wherein Frorisional cperational coral interest, only,

was irdicated car

cossiole use si subico. as ar ageau in

exico by a'i under Project ise.

On 31 zuly 1902 jour office as abrisod talestoni-

cally that Orzice of Security indices contained no record

no the Barkernot,

Cn 17 du ust 1962 you were adrised trat the Z2I

has not conducied an investiration on the subject. Herever:

the Fai made reterence to data re "Foreim Political -atters-

Cuca" which was gent to this i arc, on 20 recesser insi.

The date of said report is rot, riven, however, it is known

that the fel las provided this jercy wIth rumerous reports

so captioned, on a continuous basis.

üfaice at Security

searched for the abore ascerences repet re-

Incarcer 196, with nertive resuits. Therefore,

It is assured it is available in AD, Fi or E bivision

Lio

Do Mater action is conter-lated in tris case un-

less othernise requested t van office.

FOR THE DIRECIOR OF SEARITI:

fa Tictor i hite

29. Hd 65

84028 1

Enchant tza achaza

SECRET

---

## Page 168

SECRET

=ATE

REQUEST FOR INFORMATION AND REVIEW

TO:

13-

11ir:

FROM: CHIEF, CI/CA

28 fined 1902 da

C-101:31

SUBJECTS

THAT

ORLER THAT FURTHER CONSIDERATION MAY BE GIVEN

FURNISH THIS OFFICE THE

YELE REQUEST FOR APPROVAL

INFCERATION

IN THIS CASE.

CHECTED BELOW.

OR REVIER I FORMATION AS INDICATTO.

BAEL: TRACES

OFÉRSTIONAL AND DIVISION

TRACES

RESULTS OF TECHAICAL INTERROGATION

GHEES LIST

MOTICE:

REMARES:

REVIER OT STAGEID DOSSIER

REVIEW OF STAGE/D COLLATIRAL INFORMATIDU

REVIEW DF SECURITY OFF, REPORT AT CHIDA

REVIEM OF SEE, OFF. COMCURRESCE MEMO AT CO/SA

REVIEN OF FBI REPORT AT CI/DA

REVIEN OF ATTACHED REFERENCE

OTHERS (See Remarke)

Entried ter sherate

#*#

$0

889

SECRET

6201

---

## Page 169

SECRET

REQUEST FOR INFORMATION AND REVIEW

FATE

TO:

25 Sai 2050 han

e no.

FROM:

tiar, Ci/CA

_C-202:31

SUBJECTI

date If 2

IN ORDER THAT FURTHER CONSIDERATION MAY BE

GIVEN YOU REQUEST FOR

THAT YEU FURNISH THIS OFFICE THE INFCAMATION CHECKED BELOW. OR REVIP#S FORMATTON AS

"* REQUESTED

INDICATES.

FIELE TRACES

#I TRACES

OPÉTATIONAL AND DIVISION TRACES

RESULTS OF TECHMICAL INTERROGATION

GREED LIST

PERHER.

BECOME

REMARKS:

REVIER OF STOSEID DOSSIER

REVIES OF STASE/D COLLATERAL IAFORUATION

REVIEW OF SECURITY OFF.

REPORT AT CI/OA

REVIEW DF SEC. OFF, CONCURRENCE MEMO AT CUITA

REVIEN OF FBI REPORT AT CI'DA

REVIEN OF ATTACHED REFERENCE

OTHERS (See Reworks)

/8/

Excorded war wate

ingran 10d

#OR#

$ - GO 889

SECRET

1291

---

## Page 170

SECPET

INSTRUCTION SHEET

EXPEDITE

INDICES:

DATE

SET

$P ENQUINT

JATE

Cas! 1s.

C-101331

SET UP FIA

р. О-А.

GOV°T#. CHR

liCE

INDICES:1

REQUEST "GREEN LIST"

#EQUEST RESULTS STAFF/D DOSSIER DENIEN

REVIEW STAFFID CGLLATIRAL INSANATION

REQUEST RESULTS

TECH.

IATERROCATION FACT

SECURITE

OFFICE

018 + 5809

REVIEN OF SECURITY OFFICE REPDRT AT CO/OA

REVIER OF SECURITY OFFICE CONCUAHENT MEMO AT CO/DA

ISSUE PROVISIONAL OPERRTSIRAL APPROVAL

EXTERO POA FOR

BAYS UNTIL

REIASTATE POA FOR

DAYS UNTIL

FORWARO ATTACHMENT TO BIBISION

FORSARO ATTACHMENT. TO SIEURITY OFFICE

CANCEL PER DIVISION MEMD SATED:

(See "Remarka» (08.p80545).

*I' C1/0A (Nolice to division,

REQUEST RI TRACES

REQUEST FOR OFERATIONAL BAD DIVISIONAL TRACES

REQUEST FOR FIELD TRACES

ACONEST

570 г

PRO 1s

LOADEE

REQUEST MEVIES OF ATTACHED HEFERENCE

FOLE

TICHLE

MOTIGE

FIRST

SECCED

OTHER

Please come ta croAte decen

route of fied traces.

THIND AND

FINAL

707 un

SECRET

---

## Page 171

SECPET

INSTRUCTION SHEET

DATE

SET UP FOR P.D.A.

CaSE 180.

C- 101331

EXPEDITE

INDICES:

DATE

SET

UP

FCA

FBI

INDICES: 1

0д

SE ERQUIRY

COV°T N. CHE

•SE

ISSUE

OFERATIONAL AFPROHOL

REQUEST "GREEN LIST"

ISSUE PROVISIONAL OPERATIRAL APPROVAL

REQUEST RESULTS STAFFID DOSSIEN REVIEW

maRAn:

BOA FOR

BAYS UNTIL

REVIES STAFF/D COLLATERAL INFORMATION

REINSTATE POA FOR

BAYS UNTIL

REQUEST RESULTS TECH.

INTERROGATION EACH

sEcientel

ISFFICE

DIVISION

FORMANO ATTACHMENT TO DIXISI0%

REVIER OF SECURITY OFFICE REPORT AT CO/DA

FORWARO ATTACHMENT TO SECURITY OFFICE

REVIEN

SECURITY OFFICE CONCUARERT MENG AT CI/OA

CANCEL PER DIVISION MEMO JATED:

CANCEL PER

(See demarks" for reasss)

C1/0A (Nolice to division)

REQUEST REVIES

ATTACHED REFERENCE

REQUEST @I TRACES

FILE

REQUEST FOR OPERATIONAL BAO DIVISIONAL TRACES

TICKLE

REQUEST FOR FIELD TRATES

REQUEST

PRO 1.

PRO 1I

NOTICE

OTHER

FIRST

SECORD

THIRD AND

FINAL

Please come to er/cAte decea

recuts of fied traces.

707

SECRET

---

## Page 172

UNCLASSIFIED

INTERNAL

ONLY

J CONFIDENTIAL

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET .

SECRET

FROM:

building)

TFW

z.

3.

DATE

REGIMEO

1 FORWARDED

17

OfFEINS

INITUALS

Garte

10133/

10 August 62

AMENTS provences dach comment to show from a

'E luas across column after each comma

2o 1:

жит, Cт/0л

B - 16

'64

Finneg

is taw e2test on the use of ti

inagoat, ta the oporatiacal causcit.

icarast.

6.

1-3 DOSSIER ON SUBUBUT WAS

BITTENED EX THE UNDERSIGNED IN FI/D

AND POUND TO BE NOW-DEROGATORI.

COLLATERAL, EEFECEAICES HERE ALSO

REVISED AND POUND TO ES MU

→ Тоиднах

17 Auguster

10.

11:

12.

13.

14.

15.

Foes so 610 SEES O SECRET

29. Hd I E

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

BA8 1061 5-999986

---

## Page 173

UNCLASSIFIED

INTERNAL

ONLY

CONFIDENTIAL

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET .

SECRET

SUBJECT: (Optiocal)

FROM:

C7/04

GAit

10133/

10

COMMENTS (residen.

Hugust 62

TO: (Offer designan, room member, and

bsolding)

TFW

2.

3.

DATE

RECEIVED

INITLOLE

FORWARDED

17

Shept tH

CHIEP, CI/QA

28 = 16

In cocasiance titt the require

label 16 centsos 1923, Jience Ie

ei ibe concanato oi doosier e

so to tao cigidicuce

in 1ia e2ieat on the use o1 ti

WEAS

10.

11:

12.

13.

14.

19.

tan: 81:1

PORCs. 610

1O3 DOSSIER ON SUBJECI WAS

REVIEWED BE THE USTERSIGNED IN FID

AND POUND TO BE HON-DEROGATORI.

FT]

COLLATERAL ERFBRENCES WERE ALSO

REVISED AND POUID TO BE 1Y

I Moughan

19 Fhyud62

AUE IT

29. Hd ME E

SECRET

• CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

+00 1961 8-951969

---

## Page 174

UNCLASSIFIED

INTERNAL

ISE ONLY

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

CO " DENTIAL

• SECRET

FROM.

T4CrS/ Support

€ 5522

TO:

berling)

¡Oncer designation, room passer, endl

1.

CI/01

20 36

BATE

DATE

RECENID

FORWARDED

FETIES

2.

O MOONE SECRET

7 CONFIDENTIAL

J

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

• UNCLASSIFIED

300+081 8-801944

---

## Page 175

SECRET

6 August 1962

E002A

702

ST/5203

5: 1= 00/01

1 Iais ALBEPJ Soute C-101331

tho soute ti pra tubaect-

üt sf

Lack Force k

is Stated

Distribation:

Urig.:1 1. loirosase v/ade

29, Hd 28f g any

file

fins

Enchadel tar 8i7za

emini9; dia

perintes radiaa

---

## Page 176

UNCLASSIFIED

D INTERNAL

ISE ONLY

CO "DENTIAL

SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT: (0901)

FROM:

TE 4/07S/ Support

€ 5522

TO: (Ontier designation, room meso seen, eral

building)

1.

NO.

DAFE

DATE

OFFICHES

RECEMO

FORWANDED

RE 16

2.

*.

O ARE EN, SECRET.

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

058 1001 8-Anse

---

## Page 177

SECHET

6 August 1962

Ma GRA Z DORETCrdde CG/0k

STAJSOS

1 Iads ALREPU Soute G-101331

Abticzod neho dn Lua joub Coioham'CE 150 dendn

ei ear Paa l prabraes ea Bhe siera li fled lukieek.

met

Cagk Fcreo s

AGEZeUnOsta!

is Sbateà

Distribalion:

Grig-

1. 1 o foárosses vi/abé

AUG 6 # 32 PM 'EZ

7ile

fint

1

Dsctsant ta3 ti'3 7

FNWaNT; A:1

prottep lellida

---

## Page 178

DISPATCH

Olen, Task Force W

2i1, Wil DisIsion

Culé a Salon Mexico Clai

SACREI

iM:l1-19455

+956014091S fiX NE

HERE LEONATO

Xi727E-CH5

POA on Subloc

GYROSE

• MEXI-1506

27 July 1962

10E0S F DAr

MAS I820N5

CiNDEO CAN DE SINGES

DEACHET

C-101331

There are arached coples of a PRQ, Pari 1 ca Sulject. A

POA Ls rEquested.

Willard G, CIRFIS

25 July 1962

Anactment

As scares above.

- Distr bur lore

2 - C/Task Force W w/2 att

2 - C/WHD #/2 au

2 = Files

201-329609

ESPECTS FORES

1-49 199 ASKIN

CASJAFICATION

SECRET

---

## Page 179

SECRÉI

PERSOKAL RECORD QUESTIONXAIRE

PART 1 - BIOGRAPHICAL IMFORMSATION

DUPLICATE

NO.

INSTRUCTIONS:

SECTION 1

explicable, Brite "YA""

DISPATCH NO.

GENERAL PERSCHAL ARE PITSICAL DATA

(LESE)

(788)

MANCE IN NATIVE LANGUAGE OR SCRIPT

ALIASES, NICARAMES, TELECODES. LEGAL CHANGE

¡AME (Stale Bine.

place 0 / 888)

DATE OF BIRTM

7. PERSOÑAL HABITS PL: JUAS, drogs.

failing, paramours)

"- PLACE OF BIRTH

COURT RECORD (Court.

ecquitala)

Ne: 1007

SEX

JoS. ASE

COLON OF MAIR

DESCHIPTION (FEe duerican

SCO APPARENT AGE OdI

HElENT

for.

•I. COLDE OF ETES

#J• TEETA

TO SCARS AND MARES OR OTHER DISTIRGUISMING FEATURES

Hes or marks on lace.

GENERAL APPEANASCE

BO. PROMIMENT FEATURES

AÃ • OTHER. IDRATIFYINE FEATURES

arasurements. if possible)

"EIGHT

•f- COMPLEXION

ah. BuILO

DI: FACE (Shape)

DI. POSTURE

GROUP 1

ATTACH SAPLES OF SIGNATURE AND HANDURITING: ALSO-DATED PHOTOORAPH AND FINGERPRINTS!

IF OATAINAbE

FORM 1050 0SE P06

---

## Page 180

SECTION

PRESEAT CATIZEASHIE

CITIZENSAIP

2- NATIDRALITY AT DIATH AND ASY SUBSEGUENT ESTIZENSHIES (IS different enas Item 1-9

PRESENT RESIDIACE (indicate an orner, tenant or tub lendat)

A. PERMANENT ADDRESS (IS differeze than Item 3.)

IF U-9. RATUSALIZED CITIZEN, GIVE MAME, DATE, CITY AND NUMBER OF CERTIFICATE GRANTED

•- TRAVEL OUTSIDE COUMTRY OF PRESENT RESIDENCE (CommIsied, dates sod purposes)

ate coralines

SECTION 111

PRESENT OCCUPATION

OCCUPATIDRAL AND FINASCIAL DATA

2. TITLE

A. FINANCIAL STATUS (Earning", barl deposita.

securities and proporey).

1.1411

SECTICA IV

8. KEMBERSHIP IN RELIGIOUS DRGARIZATIONS

ORGANIZATIONAL

AFFILIATIONS

PRESENT AND FAST MEMAEASNIP 1E PROFESSIONAL AND SOCIAL ORGASIZATIONS: POLITICAL AFFILIATIONS

Not nush

SECTION Y

WAME AND LOCATION

OF SCHOOL

EDUCATIGHRL CATA

8. SCHOOLS

MAME OF, COURSE

DATES ATTENDED

+ 700

1 & 170. k. 1.

RECEIVET

LANGUAGE

Dolen pact

lan deade

which yew

degrao al conpalente.)

2. LANÚUAGES

AND

DiALECIS

COnFETENCE

*EAR

WAITE

YES

"TE$

rEs

UNDERSTAND

rEs

DELICI

---

## Page 181

SECTICE VI

SPECIAL QUALIFICATICAS AND INTERESTS

INDICATE ANY PRITINE. GIVE DETAILS INCLUDINE TITLES OF BOORS DE ARTICLES.

DATES.

#L50 AMES CE

FURLISMEAS SAD PUPLICA-

SPECIAL SCILLS, ABILITIES, HOEDIES SUCH AS RADIO, PHOTOGEAPHY. ETC-

11016

COUNTRY

DATES

WHIT

RANK

DUTY®

•IDENTIFYINE COURTRY, INDICATE THERE SERVICE PERFONNED, DECORATIDES, WHEN AND MMY DISCHARGED.

DEISONER.

SECTION VI

NOTE.

ENPLOTHEAT HISTORY

INDICATE CYPOTOLOGICAL HISTOY OF EMPLOYVEVT LISTING LAST POSITION FIRST. INCLIDE AST COTERENT ENFLOTEST

8- INCLUSIVE DATES IFSON-TON 2. EMPLOYER

$- ADDRESS

SALARY OR EARSINES

PER

SO INCLUSIVE DATES (FTO"-TO, 2-

EMPLOYER

15.

SBLARY OR EARNINGS

INCLUSIVE DATES (FEAR-TO

EMFLOYER

TURE OF BORE

SALARY OR EARNINGS

INCLUSIVE DATES (Fram-Te,

EMPLOYER

TIRE OF HORR

SALARY OR EARNINES

*- ONCRUSIVE DATES (FrEE-TO 2-

TURE OF FORG

SALART OR CARMINES

6- REASON FOR LEAVINE

3- ADORESS

6- REASON FOR LEAVING

ADORESS

REASON FOR LEAVING

ADORESS

#CASO FOR LEAVINE

ADORESS

E: REASON FOR SPAYING

65009 9

STINCT

(at 1007-

.

---

## Page 182

= af

.:.=.

SECTION IX.

MARITAL STATIS

CHECK GHE::

MARRIED

(SEPARATES

ZO STATE DATE, PLACE ASS SLASER FOR

ALL SEFARATIDAS, DINSPCES OF GOSULMENTS

ALIMONIES

44426799

HAVE REES

AARRIED MORE

ATTRE BAYE BEES BAD HER MORE TALE POETICUS WADIGAGES

ISCLUDINE LEDULMENTS, USE STEET FOR FORULE NIFE SR MISBANS

AXE OF SPOUSE

(Farer)

(Middley

(Nee)

DATE OF

-

MARD IBSE

3. FLACE OF MARIAGE

DATE OF &:ETH

PLACE OF EJA?-

STIONALITY;RIDIET

i*- SUBSESUENT.EIT/ZESSITES

PLESENT RESITENCE (LaNT FESTdenCE. IT deceased,

SECTION I

CHILDREN

FULL TANE

PLACE OF BIRTH

I RATIONALITY LE BIRTHO

•SUBSECUENT

ANY. CHILO (Ident;

her, present addrese)

SECTICA AN

FUEL ARMLE

SUBSEQUENT CIPIZERSMIPS

SECTICH XI!

FURL HAAE

BUBSEOUERT CITETEHSNIPS

2. YEARCE BIRTH

OCCUPATIE

2. YEAROF BIRPE

OCCURATIDN

MOTHER

"LACE

SEPT

FATHER

PLACE C8 814%W

#RESENT RESIDINCE

#1+T

2: PRESENT RESIDEACE

DATIONALITTAT

---

## Page 183

SECTION XIII

FULL GANTE

AROTHERS AND SISTERS

TERa

OE SIRTA!

PLACE OF BIRTH

ARTIONALITY AT GIFTE"

341N&38 8

ABY

BROTHER OR

SISTEN fidentily

55at555. 06 sister and dano las.

ae8.

DIEGERS

SECTION KIY

RELATIVES, ACQUAINTANCES AND CONTACTS

"IMES DE RELATICIS IS ANY GOVERNULNT SERVICE: INDIERTE UME DE DUVEESUENIS AND POSITIÇOS HEED.

Concescion Fernances de Albora falater-i-land, empited by Casin

2- RELATIVES.

FRIEROS, ESARESPONGENTS IN U.S. (ExpiRia seLatiOnShID)

Stater - juban Consul ir Vigo, spain.

3- GATUMALIZATION DF ESSE MELATIVES I% J.5. (G Te mane, dale, city end punder of certificare

de ented)

PARMES.

ALIASES.

SERVICE.

-I.ECIJES

AND RELATIDASTIP OF SIL PERSONS KNDUA

7O -BE

CARAELELO

ARY

INTERLI DENCE

SECTION XV

LIST CLOSE ASSOLIRTES.

IADINIQUALS OR ENOUES

PERSONAL

ISSOCIATIONS

SECTION XVI

Teresa Proenza P. penza - Cuiun Cultura: cache

MISCELLANEOUS

Cairien Cuban Diplomaile Passport #D/39/543

SATE

SIGNATURE

SECRET

---

## Page 184

TO

FROM

SUBJECT

SECRET

REQUEST FOR INVESTIGATION AND (OR) NAME CHECK

Deputy Director of Security

Jarat,

C1/Cverational Approve:

and Support Division

201330

a52.

DATE

27 ely b2

PROJECT

ejo

JHATE

REQUEST

8. FBI CHECE REQUESTES EY (DARE)

3. IRDICES RESULTI REQUESTED aY

8 has E2

8. ARES DE

SUELTE

"'S ASSIGUMENT

Til - Texteo

SO USE DF SUBJEET

AND CONES

SENTELY

cro (Froless fully)

Jone

8+ 9949T

RCA50N

7. R1. TRACES

ADI

DIVISION TRALES

#- FILLI

TRACES

BOE

attached

BREES

LIST

INITIATED

ATTAIHHENTS

¡YES

PRO PART&

SATIAL BIO. 1 OTMER:

P. 0.A.

C/DA Advised

Date.

#-#$

693 +B8

CRust 11

Escindes tam argeese

H.8g9

/a/

INITIALS

SECRET

---

## Page 185

INSTRUCTICN SHEET

(HXPESITE

INDICES:

VIỆ T

& Klugter

1 B9 1 88id ne

soiti e. eme

1L

185UT DPERATIONAL

ASFOOTEE

LIRSUE PACTISIGNGL OPEDATIGNRL APPOOTAL

INTENS ПОД ГОВ

DATE USTIE

BEINSTATE POA FOR

HAT$ N4FIL

AYTACHHEHT

10131 091

BEADANC ATTACHIIENT

T& SECUNITY DFFICE

ipné satico iiliToi 0.

CANCEL

1300

•Domerto"

Cl/0a (mofles lo dirialon)

for 108300}

#EOUKST DI PRLCES

REQUEST #OA

CPERATIONAL ANO DIFISIONEL TRACEE

PEGUESY ED8 FIELO TRACES

BI QST

•1BB08$

SECRET.

5616

skifulebr

SET UE FCA P.0.a.

Ebit ber

INO IGESLI

6a82 006.

BE

LAEA:

PIOUEST "EELED LIBT®

TEACEST DIRITE ETANE/A DOSSIEA

#IUI&»

SEVITE STAISIE COLLATINAL

I82SOWAT16N

=SONCAT BESULTE YACa.

ISTGHEDGATEON PAO

SEGUMETT

jOFRICE

1098181896

HEVICO DE SICURITO AFICE BIFCOT AT CIÍGA

BEVIEO DE SECURITY DFFICE COUCNNHENT MEMO AT ET/GA

REVIRE DN TRI DIPORT aT COrCa

HEOGIST SNTIEN DP ATTACHLO RLFRRENCI

FIEE

TIERLE

aTIcE

SECOMS

Pries and

FTUER

area -aepeco

ude-

agent.

Please imake

/ thermo

**® 707

SECRET

---

## Page 186

DISPATCH

Clei, Task Force W

1212, Wil Delsion

Caba d Sadomo Sicalco Cio

SECREI

L0lA-19455

POA 2a Subloc

GYROSE

MEX1-1506

22 20l 1962

1008G E1

BY QUALFES

1 5200

6- 101331

Inere are arached coples oi a PRQ. PartI ca Subjecio A

POA la requested.

Willard a CURTIS

25 July 1962

Anacament:

As siated above.

D'str lue lor®

2 - C/Task Farc W w/2 aut

2 - C/WHD #/2 aut

2 - Files

201-329609

CASACAlICA

SECRET

---

## Page 187

SECRÉI

DUPLICATE

-No.

PERSOKAL RECORD QUESTIONXAIRE

PART | - BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION

'greatnes

splicable, tripe age, DISPATCH do.

GENERAL PERSMAL ARE PIYSICAL DATA

8. NAME (FETES,

2. HAME IN NATIVE LANGUAGE OR SCRIPT

(988)

TB. TaME AT BIRN (TE dillerent then Tree To)

ALIASES, NICKNANES. TELECODES. LEGAL CHANGE

IN NAME (StaTe line.

reason Tor and place eT use)

DATE OF BIRTH

PEASONAL

MABITS (1: 100%, drugs, fastlind, paramours)

Faces

TE. PRICE OF BIRTH

COURT RECORD (COUrS.

acquilals)

DESCRIPTRON (Dee

American

Standards of Beesurementa. if possible)

APPARENT AGE Od.

HE I ENT

BE. WEIGHT

BE. COMPLEXION

= p.

D7: FACE (Shape)

*• COLON OR

DI. COLDE OF EYES

BUILD

DI. POSTURE

SCARS AND MARKS ON OTHER DISTIAGUISHING FEATURES

1la5 or marks on ious

GEERAL APPERRASCE

PaOMINENT FEATURES

OTHER. IDEATIFTING FEATURES

GROUP 1

ATTACH SAPLES OF SIGNATURE BAD MAN DURI TING

ALSO -DATED PHOTOGRAPH AYD FINGERPRINTS.

Fastaded tram audanati-

IN OATAINABEE

7099 1050 pre

POENIOES EBIRIORS.

18+501

---

## Page 188

SECTION II

D. PRESENT CITIZENSMIP

assador: an

CITIZEN SAIP

MATIDAALITY AT BIRTH AND ANY SUBSEGUENS CITUZENSHIES (IS dillereas eBon lter 8-)

FRESENT RESIDENCE (lndicale as orner, tenant or nub tenant)

#- PERMANENT ADDRESS (lE differENt than Item 3.)

TF U.S. MATURALIZED CITIZEN. GIVE MINE, DATE, CITY AND NUMBER OF CERTIFICATE GRANTED

.

TRAVEL OUTSIDE COUNTRY OF PRESERT

RESIDENCE (Contries, dates

and purposes)

ild suit.

timote ce

SECTION

1. PRESENT OCCUFATION

OCCUPATIORAL AND FINTECIAL CATA

2.

TITLE

S. SALARY (Per annex)

A- FINANCIAL STATUS (Earnings.

bast deposits,

and property)

SECTICH IV

1. MEMBERSHIP IN RELIGIOUS ORGAMIZATIONS

ORGANIZATIOWAL AFFILIATIONS

PRESENT AND PAST MEMBERSHIP IN PROFESSIONAL AND SOCIAL

ORGANIZATIONS, FOLIPICAL

APPOCIATTO

70t 12013

SECTION V

#AME AND LOCATION OF SCHOOL

ZUUCATIONAL DATA

1. SCHOOLS

HAME OF, COURSE

CATES ATTENDED

DEGRE

RECEIVE

LANGUAGE

ach language

2. LAMiUAGES AND DiALECIS

# EAS

WRITE

COUPEPENCE

SPEAK

TES

•TE$

YES

70

UNDERSTANI

TES

SECRET

---

## Page 189

SECT ICH VI

_ SPECIAL QUALIFICATICHS AND INTERESTS

ANY PRITINE, GIVE DETAILS INCLUDINE ISLES OF BOORS DA ARTICLES, ALSO BINES OF FURISMERS AND PUPLICA-

SATAN I

I#ECIAL SEILLS, ABILITIES, MONDIES SUCH AS RADIO, FHOTOGRAPHY. ETC.

SIFTION VAS

COUNTRY

DATES

5801

#8980T004 +504395

WAIT

RANK

Euty*

*ISESTIFYINE COUNTRY. INDICATE

PRISONER.

WHERE SERVICE PERFORMED, DECORATISHS, THEN AND WHY DISCHARGED.

GIVE

DETAILS IF WAR

SECTISE VIPI

NOTE

EMPLOTHENT MISTERY

INDICATE CHPOTOLOGICAL HISTORY OF BIPLOYVEYT LISTING LAST POSITION FIRST.

INCLUSIVE DATES (FrOS-TON 2. EMPLOYER

ISCLUDE ANY GOTERIMEVT EMPLOTWENT

I. ADORESS

A TYPE OF WORX

SALARY OR EARNINES

INCLUSIVE DATES (FrOW-TOJ2- EMPLOYER

8- TYPE OF PORK

| 5.

SALARY OR EARNINGS

INCLUSIVE DATES (FrOM-TO) 8-

EMPLOYER

SALARY ON EARNINGS

#- INCLUSIVE DATES (FrOR-TO)R.

EMPLOYER

TYPE OF MORE

SALARY OR EARNINES

ONCLUSIVE DATES (FrER-TO,T.

&- REASON FOR LEAVING

3- ADDRESS

TG- REASON FOR LEAVING

ADDRESS

REASON FOR LEAVING

AODRESS

E- REASON FOR LEAVING

3. BOOFES

TYPE OF WORE

B- SALARY ON EARNINGS

SO. REASON TOR LEAVING

Pange 1

Edit Asthma

2HT780

---

## Page 190

SECTION IX

CHECE ONE::

STATE DATE.

MARITAL STATES

MARRIES

escoote

SEPARATED

ASS REASCO FOR ALL SIFARATIONS, DIVORCES DE ARGUMENTS

BINORCEE

i MANULLED

#IFE OR

HUSBAND:

BASE OF SPOUSE

REES MARRIED MORE THAR

GI9:85 DATA FEULIGED BELON FOR ALL PREVIOUS MARRIAGES.

INCLUDIDE ARGUMENTS, USE SHEET FOR FORMER WIFE OR HUSAIND

(Farary

(Middle)

(Nee)

(1A81)

GATE OF MANDIACE

PLACE OF MATHIAGE

22100

• DATE OF GIETE

PLACE OF BIRTE

SU@SESUENT.CITIZESSATES

LIG- PSESENT HESITENCE (LOST FESTdENCE, IT dECEUREd,

SECTION X

CHILDREN

FURA MEANIE

SEX

GIRTH

PLACE OF BIRTH

BATIONALITY AT GIRTH"

"SUBSEGUENT CITITENSHIPS

ANY CHILD (Identify

child

SECTICH AI

FULL

$-

JUOSEQUENT CITIRERINIPS

SECTICE &I1

FULL

At att

SUBSEQUERT CIPAZENSHIPS

R. TEARCE #IETH

OCCUPATION

Z. YEAROF BIRTH

OSCUPATION

MOTHER

PLACE

SEr?

FATHER

S- PLACE DE BIRTH

•NATIONALITYAT GIRTH

PRESENT RESISTICE

DAT I DUALIST ANBIATH

"RESENT REBINESCE

---

## Page 191

JECTION XIII

FULL FArE

SERT

BROTHEES AND SISTERE

DF

PLACE DE BIRTH

BATISBALITY AT BIPTU*

I BSEDUENT CITIZE* SA:*5 MELO 8Y

ART BROTHER OR

brothes.

Б/ АСТ, ВРЕ1

SECTION XIV

RELATIVES, ACQUAINTANCES AND CONTACTS

DIMES OF DELATIVISI% ADY GOVERAMENT SERVICE: INDICATE DAME DF GOVERONDIS AND POSITIDOS MELE.

nEL&

A TURAL

Conecseion Fernandez de Albert (sister-i-leo, empityed by Cast

EORRESPONDEXTS IN U.S. (EXplaIA FETaTiOnaRiD)

Stater - Ciban Consul in Vigo, spain.

ATION ES =9SE DELATIVES IN 1.5. (G o9 sino, date, city and suster of certifacute aranted,

PAME S.

ALIASES, "LEZZIES AND RELATIORSHIP DE ALL PERSONS

SERVICE.

• TO-BE COMMECTED IN

ANY

INTELLI SEICE

SECTI OW XY

PERSONAL ASSOCIATIONS

LIST CLOSE ASSOCTATES, IXOIVIQUALS OR GROUPS

SECTION AVI

Toresa Proenza F. Cenza - Cubun Cultural tache

MISCELLANEOUS

Carrie Cubaa Diplomatic Fassport #D/39/543

SATE

SIGHATURE

SECRET

Brind to a

ESTILE Ad

fusiasti salian

---

## Page 192

SECRET

REQUEST FOR INVESTIGATION AND (OR) NAME CHECK

TO

: Depaty Director of Security

FROM

Caler,

Ci/ Overational Approva.

and Sapport Divisior

€

201332

SUBJECT

TYPE OF REGUEST

= A

=.

INDICES RESIATE REQUESTED BY

8 has 62

A. AREA OF

TEST

aLexdeo

ASSIGNMENT

5- USE OF SUBJECT

DATE

27 say 62

FROJECT

eja

NATE

2.

F8I CHECE REGUESTES EY (BARE)

AND COYET

Hone

OF CIA (FEBLeND FOllE)

=.

TRACES

ADI

FiELD TRACES

attached

GREEM

LIST INITIATED

AME HOME 187555

¡YES

PRO PART

@AETIAL BIO.

OTHER:

P. O. A.

0j0A Adviard

Dale.

ChuM 1

Han 7. Pan:78 898

/8/

878F 1 82.5

SECRET

---

## Page 193

SECRET.

INSTRUCTICH SHEET

INDICES

Zr7 po

1 flugler

ISSUE SCRATIDRAL ADFOOTIE

ISSUE PACVISIOMAL OPISATIGRNL APPROVAL

DAVE UNTIL

BATE UNTIL

CAse но.

BEIRSTATE FOR EON

АТТАСНИЕНТ

to

I CABARO

AYTACIENT

TO SECURITY DAFICE

14a

CANCEL DIR

1308

•Semarta

* to dirision)

BEATEST • I TRIES

REQUEST FOR

EPERATIORAL AND BIVISIOGAL TRACER

PIQUEST ECA FIELD THACES

HE QUEST

•E manag

SET

US FOR D.O-A.

INDIGESLI

ISEA:

DROUEST "GATLE 619P"

BEBOEST BENITS STANT/D DOSSSIN BEVIEN

RETIRE STRIVVE COLLSTIRAL

#6 1U2,78

SATIREOGAT SON 8900

SECURITY

DEFICE

0+0: 1: 541

BEVIEN CA SECUBITO DOTICE DITCAT AT CI/GA

PIVITE OT SECURITY OUTICE CONCUNRINT MENO AT SO/ON

PETITE DE FEI DEPORT AT CI/Da

MEMAIST SETIRE OF ATTACHED

#A* ERENCE

5118

TICKLE

NOTICE

FIRST

Tw183 200.

I I tess.

Ma— agent.

Please snake

/ thermo

Zor.

707

SECRET

---

## Page 194

UNCLASSIFIED

INTERNAL

"* ONLY

• CONF'"ENTIAL

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

IO SECRET

SUBECT: (Opsonal)

FROM:

THW/OPS SPT

CH 5512

BATE

26 JULY 1962

DATE

OFIERS

PATIALS

HE-CEIVED

CHTEE, CI/DA

28 - 11

DEADLINE

8.

12.

13.

PoRE Se 610 "ATONOS DE SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERMAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

S01961 8 7998

---

## Page 195

TO:

SECRET

REQUEST FOR APPROVAL PR BEVESTICATIVE ACTION-

Bandeeri? 1 copy

I!

CI/(cerseizal Aperozal and S-fort Division

Security Suppor Elvisioa/Cafise rf Security

SUBJECT:

Lado ALBERT SOULO 1122

CETUTORTE

PSEUUSATH. ANA CR ALtA

ITTANTL/9

DPEFATISOAL RAFASUAL

*T SECURIT? ASPROVAR

ESPERT SE-LAITY APPAGEAL ECA LISISON DITA U-S. CEFICIALS

SPECIFIE AREA DF ESE

MEXICO

- FERL DETAILS DE USE

• FI ASSET BAXICO

• АТЕ

25 JULY 2962

IFROM

TTW/OPS SPT

5512

ROJECT

CI/OA FILE NO.

#$ 201 FILE AO.

SO FILE FO.

1. TYPE ACTION RESLESTED

DRIPBIETANY AFRACIAL

PRCPRIETAOY AEPREGAL

C-YERT NAME CoCER

SPECIAL LESLIR- (SO field derestigationg

A. INVESTIGITIOS ANI COVER

YES

2. F-F. FOVENAWEET INTEREST MUY SE SHOWK DIMING INVESTIGATICHP

C. IS SUEJECT ANARE CE U-5- ECTERSHERT INTEREST IN MINT

D. 15 SUBJECT ROAHE DE CIA INTENEST IN DIST

E- INDICATE ANT LIMITATIONS EN CEVERAGE IN THE INVESTIEATION OF SUBJECT.

"- SUECEST "COVER PRETEXT" TO RE USED IA CONDUCTINE PERSONAL INVESTSGATION OF SUBJECT.

SE BI INVESTIGATION CUTSIDE CIA. EXPLAIN FULLT

5. PRE ARD GREEN LIST STATLS

¡PRE 8. SR ECUITALENT. IN tRI COFIES ATTACNIO

IPRO 18 DILL SE FIRMANOÇO

І РаД 8".

OR EDUIDALENT.

I9 19)

COPY ATTACHED

JESSISA LIST ATTACNES. NO:

TRACES

PILL FORBARS

X 95G-DEROCATORY

%. CIVISICA TRICES

NO RECEÑO

#iLL FOREING

I SIS-DERCERTORY

#. FIELD TRACES

144288988

PES SER ATTACERTIT FOR FIRIO FRACES

181824298

- 7616

SECRET

I

HOUS

127398

DERDCATORY ATTAENES

DEROSATORY ATTACULI

4#1

---

## Page 196

Name

DPOB

Citisenahip

01 20000

Occupation

Fatber

W1te

2V0E 021084

SECRET

PRQ PART I

Inde ALFERT Souto

2915, Orseco, Sprin

Caban

michelet 7301. Mercico

Cabn Caltural Attache in Kesseo

Haddoo LiBau, born Cognac, France

Jopetina SOUTO, born In Corura, Spein

Klara Vere Iscs Stross, born Henna, Austall, Eritinh

eltison. Parried 1949, Dirorced 1956.

SOCEST

---

## Page 197

UNCLASSIFIED

INTERNAL

* OMLY

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

CONF TENTIAL

ES SECRET

SUBECT: (Ophanel)

TP:/OPS SPT

OH 5522

1o.

DaTE

26 JULY 1962

DATE

#CENTED

FORWARDED

ONCENS

1.

CHIEF, CI/OA

2B • 11

DEADLINE

10.

81.

PORE So 610

MOUS DO SECRET.

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

1010018-99968

---

## Page 198

то:

SECRET

REQUEST FOR APPROCAL PROD VESTICATIVE ACTION-

1

CI/Operatioal Aparoral and Suffort Division

Security Support Evision/Capise of Security

SUBJECT:

(Tree arme)

CRETENTA, FSEUDONYA. DEA OR ALIAS

LITANIL/S

FOSHISIONAL DFESATICNAL ESPIOVAL

SECURITY APREWAL

25 JULY 1962

LFROM:

TER/OPS SPT

GE 5512

FROJECT

JHATB

CI/DA FILE NO.

BI 201 FILE NO.

SO FILE SiO.

1. TYPE

ACTIOn REJLESTED

"HOPESETARY APPROVAL

POCPRIEYADY HEPRICAL

CITERT MANI

SPECIAL 'SLI- (30 field inrestigation)

LIAISON HiTHU.S.

GEFICIALS

SPECIFIC AREA OF

iSE

HELICO

FILL DETAILS DE USE

FI ASSET MEXICO

INVESTIGITION ASS COVER

GOVERGENT INTEREST MAT HE SHOWN DURING INVESTIGATIOAS

#. LiA MOTINEST NAT EE INDON I:IS INTISTICATION?

E- 1S SUBJECT ANARE OF U-S, GOVERNNENT INTEREST IN MIMI

D. IS SUBJECT ANIRE OF CIA INTEREST IN MINI

E, BABICATE ANY LIMITATIONS EN COVERAGE IN THE IRYESTIGATION OF SUbJECT.

F. SUGGEST "COVER MRETEXT" TO BE USED IN CORDUCTINEG PERSONAL INTESTIGATION OF SUBJECT.

IF 87 IEVESTIGATION OUTSIDE CIA, ERPLAIN FULLY

PHS BA

ECUIPALENT.

S. PRO AND

GREEN LIST STATUS

42;

COFIES ATTACHED

COPY ATTACHED

PECORD

I PILL FORBAND

TO HELGRO

#ECORD

DEROGATORY INFO.

LIST SOVACES CACHES

PET INITIATED (ISOLARS PORS

BE FORMANDED

DIASUA LIST ATTACHES. NO:

"MORALES

IT ROS-DEROGATORY

CIVISICA TRACES

I SIS-DEROGATORY

•. FIELD TRACES

BILL FORBARD

DIGOGATORY ATTACTED

PIS SEE ATTAGENCY FOR TIRLS FRACES

ESTERSION

• 70,6

SECRET

YES

HOKE

127398

DEROCATOAY ATTACTS

---

## Page 199

Namo

DOB

Citizenship

Band donn

Occupation

Father

Hother

Wife

SECRET

PRQ PART I

Lade ALTERI Sento

1915, Orsedo, Speta

Cuban

Ma chalet 1301. Meadoo

Cuban Cultual Attache in Mexico

NaTiNinO ALBRU, bora Cognac, FrAnCe

Jonetina SOTTO, born In Corurag Spadn

Darn Jere Iscs Stross, born Henna, Aust 1, Fritia:

¡tison, Married 1949, Divorced 1956.

SECAST

---

## Page 200

22 April 1964

MEHORANDUM FOR:

CI/OA

ATTENTION

SUBJECT

LITAIL -9

(C-101331)

It is requested that a report be sent to the

Mexico Desk regarding the status of the Operational

Approval action on Subject. The 0i was initially

requested on 24 June 1963.

Jon M. Whitten

/C/WH/ 3

_ STONET

HAr

---

## Page 201

22 April 1964

MEMORANDUM FOR:

CI/0A

ATTENTION

SUBJECT

: _

:

LITAMIL-9

(C101331)

It is requested that a report be sent to the

Mexico Desk regarding the status of the Operational

Approval action on Subject. The OA was initially

requested on 24 June 1963.

Jon HI. 'Whitten

6C/тH/3

Har

_ SHONET

---

## Page 202

SEGRET

SECEET

26 JULY 1962

FIELD TRACES

WUIS ALEEFU SOUTO

MEXICO STATION TRACES RSVEAI THAT AMSTONE 1, LITAMII-1,

LITIZ-2, LITAMIL 3 AND LITANILT CONSIDER ALEZRU TO BE ANTI-COMUNISI.

AN LINT REPORT DATED 25 AUGUST 1959, STATED THAT COLONEL ARTURO CORONA,

C-2 MEXICAN AFI, EBLIEVED ALERI TO BE A COMMUNIST AXD ONE OF THE MOST

INTENTIAL MENES OF THE CUBAN INBASSY STAFE. THIS WAS PEPORTED IN

NEXT 12506, DATED 26 JULI 1962.

CRIEF

TASK FORCE W

SECRET

---

## Page 203

SEGRET

SECRET

26 JULY 1962

FISLD TRACES

LUIS ALBERU SOUTO

MEXICO STATION TRAGES REVRAL THAT AMSTORE-1, LITAMIL 1,

IITATI-2, LITAMII-3 AND IITANIL-T CONSIDER ALEERU TO BE ANTI-COMMUNIST.

AN LAN FEPORT DATED 25 AUGUST 1959, STATED THAI COLONEL ARTURO COROSTA,

C2 NEXICAN ARI, EELIEVED ALTERU TO BE A COMMUNIST AND ONE OF THE LOST

INTENTIAL MELEBS OF THE CUBAN EMBASSY STAFT. THIS WAS ERPORTED IN

MEXI 2506, DATED 26 JULY 1962.

CHIEF

TASK FORCE W

SEGRET

---

## Page 204

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

TO

3 CiRECTOR

FROM S'EXICO C!F!

ACTION: Hi 8

INFO • COP,

2 1

5

51

COPY SIOTTED AT: 1305, 4 JUN 6 LAS;

WE 6, kh/Sa 8, VR

File

$ 5 JUN 954

SETAET

041015Z

PAISAATY SIR ISFO HASU CITE MEXI 9736

PARULE:

REF DER 25502

1. THEN GUERIED BY COO/LITATIL-S REPORTED I JUSE FIRM

CONVIGTIDE MARISTANY COULD BE. RECRUITED, EXPRESSED GREAT SURPRISE

JOYOKE HAS NOT RECRUITED HIM YEARS AGO, SUGGESTED CARLOS PRiS

WOULO MAKE EXCELLENT RECRUITER. ACCORDING L-S MARISTANY

HAS NO TAINT OF COYKUNISY, IS CULTURED FERSON OF DIFFERENT

SREED FROY LATTE: DAY CUBAN DIPLOMATS AND PROBABLY FEELS REVULSION

SOP. REGIME.

2.

ACCORDING LITAMIL-3, WHO HAS GOSS ACCESS, MARISTANY AND WIFE

NOT VACARIONINE ACAPULCO.

3. WIFE IS LEXICAN CITIZEY, COUPLE EXPECTED REMAIN IN MEXICO

APPROK ONE MONTHO MEXI CAN PITCH SUEJIOT IHROUGH LITAMIL-3

OR CAN USE LO3 TO SET HIM UP FOR OUTSIDE RECRUITER. IN LATTER CASE

SUEGES! RECRUITER TRAVEL MEXI SOCNEST. ADVISE.

SECRET

C/S COMMENT: #APPARENTLY WRONG REFERENCE.

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUEG OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

Copy No.

---

## Page 205

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

ROTING

TO

I CRECTOR

FROM

& MEXICO CITY

ACTION: WI 8

INFO : COP,

SE

COPY SLOTTED AT: 1305, 1 JUN Ei LINEA

WE 6, kin/Sa 8, VR

2415152

INFO KAGU CITE MEXI 9736

File

$ 5 JUN 954

PSRULEN

1d. 92318

hEr DIR 25502

1. THEY GUERIED BY CAO LITAMIL-9)RPORTED 1 GUTE FIRM

CONVICTION MARISTANY COULD BE RECRUITED, EXPRESSED SREAT SURPRISE

ODYOKE HAS NOT RECRUITED HIM YEARS AGO, SUGGESTED CARLOS PRIS

MOULO MAKE EXCELLENT RECRUITER. ACCORDING L- 9 MARISTANY

HAS NO TAINT OF COMMUNISY, IS CULTURED FERSON OF DIFFERENT

BREED FROY LATTER DAY CUBAN DIPLOMATS AND PROBABLY FEELS REVULSION

FOR REGITE.

2. ACCORDINE LITAMIL-3, WHO HAS COSS ACCESS, MARISTANY

AND WIFE

NOI VACALIONINE ACAPULCO.

3. WIFE IS MEXICAN CITIZEN, COUPLE EXPECTED REVAIN IN MEXICO

APPROX ONE MONTH. YEXI CAN PITCH SUEJECT THROUGH LITAMIL-3

OR CAN USE L-3 TO SET HIM UP FOR DUISIDE RECRUITER. IN LAITER CASE

SUGGEST RECRUITER TRAVEL NEXI SOONEST. ADVISE.

SECRET

C/S COMMENT: #APPARENTLY WRONG REFERENCE.

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSU NO OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

Copy No.

---

## Page 206

6 Hey 1964

HOORAIDUE POR: CaleS, kE/3

ARITar : 1t. Joba N. Whitten

C-202331

With reference to your acrorelun dated 22 Aprll 1964,

requesting a report on the status of the (perational Approral

action on Subjoct, a menorandus setting for inta luccraetion...

uns forerind to your arties on ld Foraber 1á3. It una re

turned to CI/li and was again lonerded to jorr offloe for your

retention on 27 Hoverber 1963. It sus returned to CI/ll a seco

1a vithout comest on 1l Deceier 1963, Aberrupon 1t las Lile

' Subject's foider in tals office. No furier synoval ection has

been take in thia nattar for the remone ecialued in th

Calat, CL/GA

CI/OA/EP8: 300

d8.a1

---

## Page 207

6 May 156%

MEDRAU POR: Chlor, kH/3

1- Jchn K. Wbitten

c- 10133i

With reference to your menoremium dated 2 April 1964,

requesting a report on the status of the Operational Approral

ction on subjoct, & murand setting forth ile 11: 0

a formeded to your afflen on ld Hovenher 1563

turned to CI/li and vas again famendad to Jor office for your

retention on 21 Hovecher 1963. It Mla returnal to CI/CA a seco

time vithout comment on 1l Decester 1563, aberpon it vas ¿ule

1 Subject's foider ia tals cifice. No further appoval ection ha

boon taken is thla matter for the reinons eminined in to

was, usur

CI/ON/JF8: 500

thing

terra:

---

## Page 208

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE -

- SECRET

FOUTING

51

TO

& DIRECTOR

FROM & MEXICO CITY

ACTIONS WHI/SA 8

6 APR 1€54

2322332

JIE CITZ TEXX 6933

TYPIC

File

1Sfa9:53965

+ C101331

1. ON 9 EAT A FADINE SOYEP AND LAIDEY TAN CALLED MA OAL

•PRIBIO, CURCO CULTURAL/COUNSELOR, BOYER TOLD APAFIGIO SME DECENTLY

EE FROM CUBA, FLONVING A MONTH TRIP THRU ALL COLNTRIES LATIN

MERICA TO CO PILE ISSO FOP POOK SHE PLANNING PLELISH. WANTED TO

BRAD BOOKS REDLE EACH COUNTEY BEFOPE GOING AND ASKED APAPICIO

"ELP DETAINING E

PLASHED RETUEN CUEA SOON WITH SOOXS.

APARICIO

DE INFORCED THAT DOYER COMING TEXI PUT OFFERED ASSISTANCE INFORCED

LE: TOLITAIL-DEMO ARRASSADOR'S "IFE.

2. EDYER LITE QUE DOTS UNITED STAISE, "PERISO FRENSUMAN,

NDY

•I. DESES BUT ME FRENCH SATIONALITY. RIDEY YAKE HLYCARIAN

•TESAN" SPREETIC)S MOTHER PUSSIAY, SPANDPAREMIS CAME TO U.S.

ZEFORE WAP SSICS. BOYER LIVED PARIS ANO 7 YEARS ITALY.

SPEAKS SPANISH GITH ACCENT AND SOME DIFFICULTY, SOURCE: DELAYED

ASTRA? TRANSCHI?T).

3O CUEATA TANIFEST SHOES ONE EDYEP MATZANDES, FRENCH TUFISTA

WITH SAVE PASSPORT DEDNA ROYER LEFT VEXI FOR HAVA 15 MAR. HIII

did i disease :

SECRET

REPROQUETION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITED

Copy No

---

## Page 209

CLASSFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

N 53905

_PAGE ?

PLACH CE ERICHLIE: MO QUEFY LITTILISA I SOVER RETLEYE "EXI

STATICE DAS PESVIDE ASSET IO APPFOACH, ASSUME MOS DESIRES PESTETT

FITOF ELE GESUEST "ORE ESTAILS.

SESEET

C/S COMENT:

QUERIO IF THERE IS ANT CHANDE STA CAN LOCATE AND IDENTIFY.

(DISAH BOYEPE) .

SECRET

---

## Page 210

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

V SECRET

2 i

FOUTING

5

61

TO

• DIRECTOR

FROM & MEXICO CITY

ACTIONS WH/SA 8

6 APR 1954

BEGRET 2322332

JIR. CITE VEXI 5923

File

TYPIC

In 1271 +

1C101331

1A D1 94AE A MADINE EDYER ANO UNIDEN TAN CALLER ME DAIL

¡PRICID, CURAN CULTURAL/COUNSELO?, BOYED TOLD APARIGIO SUE PESENTLY

SI"E FROY CURA, PLINVING 4 MONTH TRIP THFU ALL COLTRIES LATIN

MERICA TO CO PILE 155O FOP POOK SHE PLANNING PUELISH. WANTED TO

FAD POOKS MEDUE EACH COUNTEY BEFOPE GOING AND ASXED APAPICIO

HELP OPTAINING T

PLAINED RETUAN CURA SOON WITH SOOKS.

ARAFICIO

OT INFORMED THAT DOYER GOING SEXI PUT OFFFED ASSISTASCE

INTFOOLCED

HE: TO LITAIL-SLAND AMBASSADOR'S MIFE.

2. FOYER 5'TT SUE CORN UNITES STATES, "AFRIED FRENOHMAN,

•I DESES PUT HAS FRENCH NATIONALITY, FRIDEY LAME HLYGARIAN

•COSSAN" (PHOETIC). YOTHER PUSSIAN, SPANDPARENTS CAME TO I.S-

ZEFORE WAP (SIC)O BOYER LIVED PARIS NOT YEARS ITALY.

SPEAKS SPANISH MITH ACCENT AND SOYE DIFFICULTY. (SOURCE: DELAYED

MITRAP TRANSCHIPI).

3O CUEATA FATIFEST SHOUS ONE EDYEP MATZANDES, FRENCH TUFISTA

WITH SAVE PASSPORI DESNA BOYER LEFT. YEXI FOR HAVA 15 VAR. VIII

sime de sidera

SECRET

EPROOUETION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMINTED

Copy No.

---

## Page 211

CLASSIFTED MESSAGE

SECRET

ML 53905 PAGE ?

STATICE CAS P-OVIDE LESET TO APPELACH, ASGUTE NOS DESIRES PROCKTRIT

PITCH EUT SEQUEST MORE DETAILE.

...

.....

C/S COMENT:

QUERIED IF THERE IS ANT CHANGE STA CAM LOCATE AND IDENTIFY.

(DINAH BOYEPE, .

SECRET

---

## Page 212

-..

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

ROUT.N3

21

31

= DIRECTOR

ROM & MEXICO CITY

ACTION: SES 8

NFO

= 5 MAR 1964

SECRET 2319297

DIR CITE VEXI 8478

C-10/331

TYPIC AYROD

1312611:31542

lo FOLLOINS FROM LITAIIL-S NIGHT 1-2 MARCH.

C. FAiRE DiSUSAS, WIFE, IVO CHILDREN ARRIVED MEXI 1 MARCH EN RONTE

TAKE UP NEW POST EYEASSY SANTIAGO CHILE. VIFE DESCRIBED AS CONTON,

"CHEAP"•

3. ELENA VASQUSZ SOMEZ, " LOVER" OF TERESA PROENZA RAS RETURNES FES"

CUZA, SAYS TERESA WILL PROBABLY WORK IN CUBA SUT MAY MATE TRIP TO MEXI

$20%%.

4O EURISJE SOUZALEZ CASANOVA BACK FROM CUBA, SAYS HE SAW TERESA

AT PARTY ATTENDED SY RUAL ROA

AND JOAQUIN ERDOGUI ARCUS OTHERS.

SECRET

SECRET

---

## Page 213

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

21

ROUTING

41

5

3 DIRECTOR

ROMA & MEXICO CITY

5 MAR 1964

ACTION: SAS 8

• DOP, CI, CL/OPS, CI/IC 2,

/ C1/0A, TA, Fl/INT, Witi 7, VR

SEC R: T 531929Z

DIR CITE *EXI $ 478

C-10/331

TYPIC AMROD

1. FOLLOWING FROM

135280:3 1542

LITANIL-S NIGHT 1-2 MARCHA

= FREE SiSUSAS, WIFE, IUO CHILDREN ARRIVED MEXI 1 MARCH EN RONTE

TAKE UP NEW POST EMEASSY SANTIAGO CHILE. WIFE DESCRIEZO AS DONTON,

"CHEAP"•

3O ELEVA VASZUSZ SOMEZ, " LOVER" OF TERESA PROENZA HAS RETURNED FRE"

CURA, SAYS TERESA WILL PRO349LY WORK IN CUBA SUT MAY MAKE TRIP TO KEXI

S00%

4O ENRIGUE GONZALEZ CASANOVA BACK FROM CUBA, SAYS HE SAW TERESA

AI PARTY ATTENDED BY RUAL ROA AND JOAQUIN ORDOQUI AIOUS OTHERS.

SECRET

SECRET

---

