104-10414-10400|

wore an

e ofl .

PROCESSING ACTION

DISPATCH =

SECRET / sini
Chief, WH Division

an

FOR INDEXING

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

Wo,

‘OLY QUALIFIED ESR
am WUOGE INOEKING

FROM

Chief of Station, Mexico City

ickOFIL

‘sumer
LIEMPTY Project Renewal

"ZGTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

Action: Renewal of Project

Forwarded herewith and under separate cover

of Project LIEMPIY for purposes of renewing the project for the period 1

December 1963 through 30 November 1964. ‘The amount requested to fund tie

on

‘oved for the past project year.

RECORDS OFFICER STAMP

The foll
authori

R.O.

Fuetion, cite
Note: If destruction, ci
Attachment:  Fee5ens end coordinate

late.
As stated abbtfPPror’
Herewith and Under Separate Cover

r Distribution:
LF= Chit w/att b/w & u/o/s

63 ear7

is the Station's review

project for this period is $US 49,700, or approximately the same as was

Se-6-74+/1

"CRE / anes

‘CROSS REFERENCE TO DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER ATE
ae oHMMAZ22587 25 October 1963

50-6-74/1:



13-00000

SECRET Agee |

LIEMPTY Mexico City
PROJECT 5 STATION

er Le Lei Case Officer | Willard C. CURTIS, CG of Station ~

wore 7H

SECRET Age

eehany
a pee tard 7
va EMCLO | Lear vd pf Manp~ddS IT



13-00000

I. CURRENT OBJECTIVES AND PRODUCTION RELATI

A. Oliver G. SCANTLING Segment (in relation to project objectives.)

1.."Zo collect operational information pertaining to LIMERICK personnel
and physical facilities." -SCANTLING hag continued to provide worthwhile in-
formation in support of this objective. | (See previous project review forvarded
‘by HMMA-20052 of 18 October 1962.) :During the past year SCANTLING was used to
follow up leads: produced by both LIFEAT/ana LIENVOY in support of this objective.
In.particular SCANELING provided, in blueprint detail, casing reports on the
homes ‘of two Soviet intelligence officers wao are targets for Station technical
operations, |

SCANILING also is used to aid the Station in maintaining current records

of the residences of. Soviet personnel living in Mexico, This is accomplished by
SCANILING's followup of LIENVOY leads which indicate Soviet interest in renting
specific properties. :

2. "Zo collect operational informition pertaining to other targets of op-
portunity, foreign official installations and personnel of intelligence interest
operating in Mexico." SCANTLING has proved successful in providing information
on other Station targets: i

a. SCANTLING obtained information on (AEBMIQUELET-2, a suspect Soviet
support agent vhich was the basis of further Station operations
against this target.

‘b. . SCANTLING provided a2 casing of the former Yugoslav Comercial
Office against which the Station had planned a technical operation.
However, this site was evacuatéd by the target mission before
plans were completed for this attempt.

¢. SCANTLING has conducted detailed investigations in various cases
involving possible agents or contacts of hostile intelligence ser-
vices, ‘These cases were of prime concern to Station Mexico but
frequently. were undertaken ‘at the request of Headquarters or other
Stations.

3.- “fo provide support to other Station operations as may be requested by
the .Station-officers. concerned. ":)In:the-past SCANTLING's-ectivities -in this area
‘Were concerned ‘primarily With recruitments, ‘debriefings end surveillances. During
the reporting period, however, the weight of SCANTLING's support to otherStation
opérations have taken other forms... Exatiples from this area of activity, include

the most fruitful efforts on Sean parti «

|



13-00000

a. Support of the sensitive AMROD operation, in which Raymond H.
GERENDE also played a vital role, was of singular importance to ,
the success of the operation. SCANTLING's many fields of op-
erational experience were dravm on fully and he thereby provided
a unique contribution to the operation. Without'the assistance
of SCANTILING and GERENDE with their unique qualifications, this
operation would have been difficult in the extreme if indeed at

all possible. f

‘o. In support of the Station's harassment campaign against|
leunched’ at the request of Headquarters,

ANILING Sgain provided the means for carrying out a large portion
of the action taken. SCANTLING's efforts ranged from the mailing
of "poisoned" candy to the! target to the placing of threatening
phone calls, SCANTLING also made calls to various Mexican news-
papers and mailed "montage" pictures of land a Soviet in-

telligence officer to newspapers in the campaign to
discredit and discourage in the|
campaign.

ce. SCANTLING is used as the alternate contactin a sensitive LAURICLE
project.’ This is for the purpose of minimizing the danger of the
action agent in this project being recognized as being in contact
with an obvious PBPRIME citizen. SCANTLING's contribution to this
operation has been noteworthy both from the standpoint of security
and agent handling. :

a. SCANTLING continued to conduct mumerous pretext and’ neighbornood
investigations.. As in the past many of these investigations were
in relation to highly. sensitive cases.

4, Although SCANTLING's LIEMPIY project. objectives can not be completely
fulfilled, it is the Station's opinion that SCANTLING continues to make valuable
contributions to the objectives of the project and to other Station activities.
SCANTLING's, production, measured against monetary expenditure, case officer time
and other intangibles factors, unquestionably justifies his continuing as. an
integral part of Project LIEMPTY,) |

|

B. Raymond H. GERENDE Segment (in relation to project objectives):
: i

ari "6 éollect operational information pertaining to LIMERICK ‘yerednnel:
and ies through use of ph graphic basen es." ee photo-
Graphic ‘bases, LIMITED, LILYRIC and LICALLA, contribute to these objectives.
Although SCANTLING now'acts as cutout with the LIMITED base; GERENDE contimues
to be responsible for the processing of all photo take froa the LIEMPTY operation
including take from LIMITED, To avoid repetition, the Station is omitting the
description of the functions of these three bases and,how they contribute to.th
scribed in the 1960 Request for Project Re:

above objective, This was fully
(HiM4A-15979) . :



13-00000

IL.

2. "To collect, operational infornation and identify operational leads
pertaining to Station targets of opportunity." ‘The LIENIRAP operation,
handled by GERENDE, is still the major contributor to this objective. G
LIENTRAP. operational emphasis continues, to remain in the area of photo stakeout
of prominent Mexican Communists and is. presently working fulltime on providing
pictures of: individual Communists, homes suspected of being meeting sites used
by the Communist Party and the Communist Party Headquarters itself. LIENTRAP
has also recently begun to be used on’ ZRKNICK leads. It is expected that
activities of }IENTRAP.in that latter erea will expand in the coming year.

3. "fo provide operational support to Station operations including the
renting of hotel rooms and safe apartments, renting and servicing of post office
boxes, and conducting counter-surveillances." GERENDE's contribution to th
AMROD operation was noted in paragraph I.A.3.a. above. GERENDE's comprehensive
area Imowledge and personal operational'capabilities enable him to make a
valuable contribution “in ‘such operations as AMROD and also enable him to procure
the most desireable safe sites in support of the Station's operations. The
project's assets, particularly. GERENDE and LIEMPTY-10, presently provide 20
post office box mail drops for use of Mexico City Station and other Stations.
Although it is planned to reduce this nanber considerably during the next year,
(since other Station assets now can provide.a number of live accommodation
addresses), a number of post office boxes will be retained for. use in future
operations.

4, The quality and quantity of operational information produced by the
photogrephic bases and other activities under GERENDE's control and supervision
is considered by the Station worthwhile and in some cases unique. It is con-
cluded, therefore, that this. segment of the LIEMPTY Project should be continued.

C. Relationship to the Related Mission Directive

As noted in the examples given above, Project LIENPTY has provided valuable
support to many Station operations and hereby has been e. contributing factor to
the fulfillment of the Related Mission objectives of. the Station. The project
has not. produced any positive intelligence nor is it intended to do so. The
project's sole purpose is to provide a uechanism for the development of opera-
tional information,

CHANGES

="<""The one majorchatige made’ in’ thie“ LIEMPTY Project ‘was the replacement “of.>*
GERENDE ... by SCANTLING as cutout with the LIMITED basehouse. This was arranged
so es to provide GSRENDE with more time for rapid processing of the LIENPTY
phototake. It also makes for better raqport with the basehouse keeper (LIEMPT¥ 6)
since SCANILING is closer in age to him than.:ig GERENDE.

Louise J. MACRINO (ps) suffered a recurrence of the heart. condition which
nearly caused her. death approximately eight years ago. Complete rest has been


Iq.

v.

ordered by her doctors and an operation

may be necessary in early 1964.

It is therefore unlikely that she will be able to work during the coming

project year. Station does-not plan to,

request cancellation of her operational

clearance at this time, but has not included salary payments to her in the

estimated costs of the project for the

The unusual salary increase reflec
(below) sectionfor the coming year is. dj
processing-in addition to her old dutie;
for this use on 2 January 1963.

EEFECTIVENESS a

The. coments made. concerning the pI
Renewal of 1960 (HMMA 15979) remain val’
type of services provided by the assets|
today. as they were when those coments

PROBLEMS

There are presently no kmow major|
affect either the security or the effec}
problem facing the LICALLA portion of +]
and stibsequent renewal requests has bee}
of three KURIOT personnel earlier this
this group had Imovwledge of the LICALLA|

Both SCANILING and GERENDE took th
1963. No security problems were. reveal!

PLANS

The Station considers thet the’ pro|

does not plan to expand it during the coming year.

oming year.

ed for LIEMPTY-19 in the "Project Costs"
pe to this agent's new duties of LIFEAT
as translator. Agent's OA was amended

‘oject's effectiveness in the Project
a. Indeed the Station's need for the
of this project are at least as great
ere originally forwarded.

problems facing the operation which would
dveness of this operation. The security

e operation and described in HMMA-15979
resolved by the Cuban Government's release
ear, As was noted previously, one of
operation.

LCFLUITER during the month of October
d. by this ‘test.

ject is operating at its optimum size and
Efforts will be continued to

vefine end better utilize the existing project organizetion and to improve the

compartmentation end security of. the pri
costs ; :

A. Past ‘Project Year - Station records
imately $US 30,680.00 during FY 1963 (1

ject.

show that Project LIEMPTY expended approx-
December 1962.- 30 June 1963) and has

Sbordate in- FY: 1964. (through: 30:September 1963),.expended .GUS::7,;620.., Approximately

$US 10,300 will be expended

during the last two months of the project year.

This will make a total expenditure’ for the project year of about $US 48,600 or

$US 1,300 under ‘that which was allotted|

B, Nos Project Year +

for this project.

Of the total. $US 49,700 budget, itemized below, approxi-

mately $US 30,290 will be expended in FY 1964 and the remainder $US 19,!10 in

FY 1965.

ttt oe


we

AGENT S:

SALARTES
Cineluding X'mas bonuses)

Raymond H..GERENDE,

Oliver G.’ SCANTLING

Louise-J. MACRINO: ”
(at $US 2,02 per.hour)

/DIEMPTY-lt Fy .

NUTEMPTY-5 ‘
(at US 1.75 per hour

LIEMPTY-6
LIEMPTY-T
LIEMPrY-8
LIEMPIY-9_
LIEMPTY-10
LIEMPTY-11
LIEMPTY-12
LIEMPTY-13
LIEMPTY-14
LIBPIY-19
LIEMPTY-24
SUBTOTAL

OPERATIONAL EXPENS!

Transportation:

Maintenance of MV-2279, MV 226),

MV 2236

i
I
i

‘gus per year FY 196), FY 1965

‘6,000
5,500

2,000
"8000
a

no selary >
$US; 39,500 $US 24,540 $US 15,160



et

MeL Hi teat LEH M BOD: 2387

6- i

Operational Expenses end

laos Per Year FY 1964

nis See

Real Estate
Rent, utilities and maintenance
of basehouses -

LIMITED* 3300
LICALLA* 2,700
LILYRIC ‘1,200
Procurément of safchouses, post
office boxes, and rental of A
automobiles F500
Purchase of information, documents” i
and bribes . i 500
SUB TOTAL 9,200. 5,390 3,810
Repair, maintenance and purchase of |
replacement photographic equipment
and purchase of film 1,000
SUB TOTAL 1,000 560 kyo |
GRAND 'TOPAL $08 49,700 $US 50,290° us 19,410

EMERGENCY CONDITIONS

Emergency recontact arrangements ff

yr Oliver G. SCANILING and Raymond H.

GERENDE:are'on file-in Headquarters (seb HMMA 15982 of 23 November 1960 and
HMMA 15981 ‘of 23 November 1960+) ‘For further information see Project renewal

request of 1960 forwarded vy HMMA 15979)
‘STRAINDIG -

No training, other than ‘that w senih the competency ‘of SCANPLING or: GERENDE

to.give, te anticipated tor the >, ONE. project, year.

LIMITED and :LICALLA, rents :are.re
‘to: LIMESA expense.

NOTE:"

so é WALT

re

wurned to Station by. LIMOUSINE and.credited

Cy tee d-7o)

