# 104-10215-10048

## Page 1

104-10215-10048

SECRET

PROVISIONAL OPERATIONAL APPROVAL

MEMORANDUM FOR:

Chief,

WH/C/RR/OSDA -- 0.

A. Williams

NUMBER

SUBJECT

202 - 251689

ANCLATTER/1a

REFERENCE: Your Memorandum, Dated

2 March 2965

CIT

as set forth below.

A Provisional Operational Approval is granted for the use of this Subject

It 1s

ject to a further final review when all investigation is completed.

Subject's POA 1e herevith reinstated until 1 June 1965 per your memorandu

roguest to this office dated 2 March 1965.

To process the Operational Approval, full Information (completed FRQ

Parts I and II) must be submitted as soon as possible and not later than six

(6) months fron this date. An Operational Approval will follow when all

Investigation is completed and upon the receipt of satisfactory PRQ Parts I

and II. Cancellation must be requested if use of Subject by interested Di-

visions ceases.

Edrard Be Ari

APPROVAL

DATE

CI/OPERATIONAL, APPROVAL AND SUPPORI DIVISION

roRy 025 088 80

SECRET

A March 1065

---

## Page 2

14-00000

Pets

Saara

SECRET

INSTRUCTION SHEET

EXPEDITE

INDICES:

DATE

DATE

4 HAR 985

SET UP FOR

P.0.A.

EXPEDITE DATE

FBI

INDICES:

CASE NO.

251689

SF :

FOR

Од

SP INQUIRY

GOY°T N. CHR

USE

AREA:

ISSUE OPIBATIONAL APPROVAL

REQUEST "GREEN LIST®

ISSUE PROVISIONAL OPERATIGHAL APPROYAL

REQUEST RESULTS STAFF/D DOSSIER REVIEW

ENTEND POA FOR

DAYS UNTIL

REVIE STAFF/D COLLATERAL INFORMATION.

REINSTATE POA MOM

REQUEST RESULTS TECH.

INTERROGATION FROM

SECURITY

OFFICE

DIVISION

FORBARD ATTACHMENT TO DIVISION

REVIEW OF SECURITY OFFICE REPORT AT EB/DA

FORWARD ATTACRMENT TO SECURITY OFFICE

REVIEW OF SECURITY OFFICE CONCURRENT MEMO AT CI/CA

CANCEL

PER

(Nio

notico

VISIO

MEMO DATEDI

CANCEL PER CI/DA (Notico do division)

(Sao "Resarka» for season)

REVIEN OF FBI REPORT AT CI'SA

REQUEST REVIE# OF ATTACHED REFERENCE

REQUEST &S TRACES

FILE

REQUEST FOR OPERATIONAL AND DIVISIONAL TRACES

TICKLE

REQUEST FOR FIELO TRACES

NOTICE

FIRST

SECOND

REQUEST

THIRD AND

FINAL

PRO I

PRO 1!

OTHER

WH/C/ER/OSOA. O.A. WILLIAMS

SUBJECT'S POA IS HEREWITH REINSTATEY UNTIL

1 JUNE 1965 PER YOUR MELO REQUEST TO

THIS OFFICE PATEY 2 MAREN 1965.

FORM

SECRET

(a:)

---

## Page 3

SECRET

2 March 1965

HENORANDUM FOR: Chief, CI/OA

SUBJECT:

ANCLATTER-1

201-251689

1. It is requested that Subject's POA be

extended for a period of thirty (30) days.

2. JMWAVE has been requested to forward

completed PRQ Part II forms on Subject prior to

the expiration of the extension.

for John

Hart

Deputy Chief, WHD/C

Distribution:

Orig. & 1 - Addressee

five, y

S9. HUZIlI E UNH

Errietes tom arurati:

SECRET

#oc: assificatioa

---

## Page 4

• обана пом.

SECRET

CANCELLATION TO DIVISION

DATE

9 February 1965 jb

MEMORANDUM FOR: CHIEP, WH/SA/ IOS

ATTENTION:

0. A. Wllians

CH 203 - 251689

The file on-

AMCLATTER/1

- Is cancelled

and closed in CI/SA for the following reason:

Failure to submit PRQ-II as required under CSI No. 10-5 or to

Indicate any further interest in obtaining approval for the operational

use of Subject.

Prior to any future use of Subject, 1t will be necessary to furnish

a new approval request. (Form #T72) to CI/QA.

Is/, Edriard P. Frowa

CHIEF, CI/OPERATIONAL APPROVAL AND SUPPORT DIVISION

SECRET

BORN

12-69 691••

306 888 8 8888

---

## Page 5

SET UP

FOR

SET UP

FOR DA

INSTRUCTION SHEET.

DaTE

INDICES

SPECIAL

#HQUIRY

SECRET

DATE

1965

8 FEB 4915

EXPEDITE

FBI

INDICES

CASE ND. 201°

251689

DATE

COVERT MAME

CHECK

AREA

USE

ISSUE OPERATIONAL APPROVAL

REQUEST GREEN LIST

ISSUE PROVISIONAL OPERATIONAL APPROVAL

REQUEST RESULTS FI/D DOSSIER REVIEN

EXTEND POA FOR

DAYS UNTIL

REVIEW FI/D COLLATERAL INFORMATION

ALINSTATE POA FOR.

DAYS UNTEL

REQUEST RESULTS TECHNICAL.

INTERROGATION FROM

SECURITY OFFICE

DEVISION

FORWARD ATTACHHENT TO DIVISION

REVIER SECURITY OFFICE REPORT AT CO/OA

FOREARD TO

SECURITY OFFICE

REVIEW SECURITY OFFICE CONCURRENT MEMO AT CO/DA

CARCEL PER DIVISION MENO DATED

(No notle to Division)

PER

Miteasos

110

hecked storic

0 2 5108

remarke)

REVIER AT CA/DA

FBI BEFORT

SEFRUTTER REPORT

REQUEST REVIEW OF

ATTACHED REFERENCES

ADVISE CA/DA OF MATURE AND SIGNIFICANCE

REQUEST RI TRACES

FILE

BEQUEST OPERATIGHAL AND DIVISION TRACES

TICKLE

REQUEST FIELD TRACES

NOTICE

SECONO

#=Q!

REGUEST

OTHER

POA EXPIRED.

PLEASE SUBMIT

HAS BEEN INDICATED, POA WILL BE AUTONATICALLY CANCELLED.

PRO 11, 1F, WITHIN SO DAYS, NO FURTHER INTEREST IN SUBJECT

FOR THE OPERATIONAL USE OF SUBJECT.

FAILURE TO SUBMIT FRO 11 AS REQUIREO UNDER CSI NO, 10-5 OR TO INDICATE ANY FURTHER INTEREST IN OSTAININE APPROVAL

REMARKS

l O9 FEE 1965

CANCELLED

COPY TO SECURITY

P.. Brewa

15!

9-8$

707

SECRET

GROUP I

chector trom

---

## Page 6

14-00000

SECRET

REQUEST FOR iNVESTIGATION AND/OR MAME CHECK

21 July 196L Jak

TO

: Deputy Director Security, IOS

PROJECT AND AREA OF

ASSIGNMENT

FROM: Chief, CI/Operational Approval

aud Support Division

SUBJECT: 201

251689

TYPE

OF

*EQUEST

00 R

ene

SHATE

WHI/SA/IOS MIAMI

OS INDICES RESULTS BY

I

USE OF

SUBJECT

(Data) 27 July 1964

FAI CHECH RESULTS BYE

(Dato)

3 August 196h

FI/CI SUPPORT ASSET

SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS (Limitationa on investigation, couor protent, asc.)

NDI

DIVISION

NDI

FIELD

NDI

ES TRACE RESULTS

LIST

INITIATED

REMARKS

ATTACHMENTS

TZ PARTIAL 01O

OTHER

Lal Edward P., Browa

Fur

ENDORSEMENT

10 : Chief, CI/CA

FROM:

Deputy Director Security, IOS

DATE 25/9E0/15564

No deta

j0s tadses resulte: 70 degatory information and

Speec

228453

2. Checks were

conducted at the indicated Agencies with negative results:

Г 3.

hecks vere conducted at

results,

• Domestic Field Investigation has been completed,-

replete attached.

5. Domestic Field Investigation favorable, reporte will foll

• within 60 days

REMARKS

*-PP notting Antseguent to foly 1959.

File

#Ойм

#-84

693

SECRET

4#1

.-.,.

---

## Page 7

OFFICE OF SECURITY

Support Div

REPORT OF INVESTIGATION

(dated 18 Sept. 1964)

---

## Page 8

14-00000

ом ту под, сті та

SECRET

PROVISIONAL OPERATIONAL APPROVAL

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief

WH/SA/I23 - D. lo W1211 ans

ALIES BE R

201 - 251689

SUBJECT

AYCLATTERA

REFERENCE: Your Memorandum, Dated

16 July 1964

C172

A Provisional Operational Approval is granted for the use of this Subject

a6 set

forth below.

A Provisional Operational Approval issued by CI Staff grants the same

authority, on a temporary basis, for the use of an individual as

the authority

granted in an Operational Approval unless otherwise specified by CI/OA. It is

based, however, only on preliminary file checks and investigation and is sub-

ject to a further final review when all investigation is completed.

To process the Operational Approval, full information (completed PRQ

Parts I and II) must be submitted as soon as possible and not later than six

(6) months from this date. An Operational Approval will follow when all

Investigation is completed and upon the receipt of satisfactory PRQ Parts I

and II. Cancellation must be requested if use of Subject by interested Di-

visions ceases.

GROUP 1

#sclesallicanes

707 Fit

APPROVAL

CI/OPERATIONAL APFROVAL AND SUPPORI DIVISION

ORAt

• 8#

125 oв8

SECRET

DATE

1 August 196l

---

## Page 9

14-00000

17791777799911

SECRET

DATE

SET UP

FOR POA

SET UP

FOR DA

INSTRUCTION

SHEET

EXPEDITE

INDiCES

SPECIAL

BEQUIRY

DATE

7 AUG 1964

EXPEDITE FAI

INDICES

CASE NO. 20%°

251689

MATE

COVERT NAME

ChECK

AREA

USE

ISSUE OPERATIONAL AFFROVAL

ISSUE PROVISIONAL OPERATIONAL APPROVAL

EXTEND POA FOR

BAYS UNTIL

REINSTATE POA FOR.

DAYS UNTIL

FORWARD ATTACHMENT TO DIVISION

FORMARD TO

SECURITY OFFICE

ATTACHMEHT

CANCEL PER

DIVISION MEMO DATED

(No notico to Division)

CANCEL

До a

DEVISION

remarka)

REQUEST RI TRACES

REQUEST OPERATIONAL AND DIVISION TRACES

REQUEST FIELD TRACES

REQUEST

REQUEST GREEN LIST

GEQUEST RESULTS FI/D DOSSIER REVIEW

REVIEW FI'D COLLATERAL INFORMATIUN

REQUEST RESULTS TECHAICAL

INTERROGATION FROM

SECURITY DEFICE

DIVASION

REVIEW SECURITY OFFICE REPORT AT CA/DA

REVIEW SECURITY OFFICE CONCURRENT MEMO AT CI/DA

REVIEW AT CH/OR

LOFLUTTER REPORT

REQUEST

REVIER OF ATTACHED REFERENCES

ADVISE CA/DA OF NATURE

AND SIGNIFICANCE

FILE

TICKLE

NOTICE

BECOM

FINAL

OTHER

POA EXPIRED

PLEASE

SUBMIT

BEEN INDICATED, POA WILL DE AUTOMATICALLY CANCELLED.

PRO 11. 1P, MITHIS SO DAYS, NO FURTNER INTEREST IN SUBJECT

•FAILURE TO SUBMIT PRO I! AS

REQUIRED UNDER CSI ND.

FOR THE OPERATIONAL USE

OF SUBJECT.

10-5 OR TO INDICATE ANY FURTHER INTEREST IN OBTAIMING APPROVAL

REMARKS

Limerit Is. Tate

707

SECRET

8881

---

## Page 10

TO

FROM:

SECRET

REQUEST FOR INVESTIGATION AND/OR NAME CHECK

DATE

Deputy Director Security, IOS

PROJECT AND AREA OF ASSIGNMENT

Chief, CI/Operational Approval

and Support Division

SUBJECT:

201

TYPE Of

REQUEST

OS INDICES RESULTS BY

mind bind anime

FBI CHECK RESULTS BY

Dares Partie 1él

USE OF SUBJECT

SPECIAL

INSTRUCTIONS (Limitations on

vestigation, cover protoxe, ele.)

DIVISION

FIELD

CS TRACE RESULTS

GREEN LIST

INITIATED

ATTACHMENTS

PARTIAL ALO

REMARKS

ENDORSEMENT

CHIEF, CIlDA

DATE 7/37/64

TO : Chief, CI/OA

FRON: Deputy Director Security, IOS

l. OS Indices results:

5 1MiZlo seizatory iomatin, and no data

I284i3

693

SECRET

601

---

## Page 11

14-00000

Ferdin't

mi: 44099900 page a prote opts, ma

SECRET

DATE

TO

FROM:

REQUEST FOR INVESTIGATION AND/OR NAME CHECK

Deputy Director Security, IOS

Chief, CI/Operational Approval

and Support Division

PROJECT AND AREA OF ASSIGNMENT

SUBJECT:

201

TYPE OF

REQUEST

FOA

USE OF SUBJECT

OS INDICES RESULTS AY

(Dato) 2i "1 1908

FBI CHECK RESULTS BY

(Date)

d.*"

SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS (LIB"I

ation, cover pretext. ate.)

CS TRACE RESULTS

GREEN LIST

TES

REMARKS

DIVISION

FIELD

9888194014

ATTACHMENTS

PARTIAL BIO

OTHER

LsL Edward P. Browa

CHIEF.

Tur

ENDORSEMENT

693

SECRET

---

## Page 12

SET UP

FOR POA

SET UP

FOR DA

INSTRUCTION SHEET

EXPEDITE

INDICES

SPECIAL

I NOUERY

DATE

SECRET

DATE

31:7*305

EXPEDITE FBI

INDICES

Ense in. 2610

251689

DATE

COVERT NAME

CHECK

АЯЕА

USE

ISSUE OPERATIONAL APPROVAL

ISSUE PROVISIONAL OPERATIONAL APPROVAL

EXTEND PON FOR

DAYS UNTIL

HEINSTATE POA FOR.

DAYS UNTIL

FORWARD ATTACHMENT TO DIVISION

FORDARD TO

SECURITY OFFICE

ATTACHNCHT

CANCEL

i No

CEL PEO POSURN

SIMO DATED

Division)

CANCEL

(Beas

ER ched House.

DIVISION

REQUEST RI TRACES

REQUEST OPERATIONAL AND DIVISION TRACES

REQUEST FIELD TRACES

REQUEST

REQUEST GREEN LIST

- REQUEST RESULTS FI/D DOSSIER REVIEW

REVIEW FI'D COLLATERAL INFORMATION

REQUEST RESULTS TECHNICAL

INTERROGATION FROM

DAVISION

REVIE" SECURITY OFFICE REPORT AT CI/DA

REVIEW SECURITY OFFICE CONCURREMT MEMO AT CI/OA

REVIES AT CE/OA

F.88 #£00#*

LCELUTTER DEPORT

REQUEST REVIEW OF

ATTACHED REFERENCES

ADVISE CI/DA OF MATURE AND SIGNIFICANCE

FILE

TICKLE

NOTICE

SECOND

0 1 1A1

OTHER

POA

EXPIRED

MAS

BEEN INDICATED, POA MILL BE AUTOMATICALLY CANCELLEO.

PLEASE SUBMIT PRO 18. IF, WITHIN SO DAYS, NO FURTHER INTEREST IM SUBJECT

•FAILURE TO SUBMIT PRO DI AS REQUIRED UNDER CSI NO, 10-9 OR TO INDICATE ANY FURTHER INTEREST IN OBTAIMING APPROVAL.

FOR THE OPERATIONAL USE OF SUBJECT.

REMARKE

707

SECRET

121)

---

