# 104-10217-10139

## Page 1

104-10217-10139

17N8

1 3758

LICES CARLAY DISSELIMATION E

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

TOTAL COPIES

5

LEPRODUCTION OF MIS COPY SPONTRITES

AOUYNO ANDION INTLALROR

#*:.

. 3

• PER

FILE, VR

196

E/Re/As, DDe, ADDR, C/sas 3, c/Er2, 2/ce

SECRET 281601Z APR TO CITE UN/MIAMI 11978

DIRECTOR INFO

•

RYBAT AKULE TYPIC AMECRU AMSIGH ANCALL•

RCF DIRECTOR 133367

Zika t: 321845

• 1o ON 25 APRIL 197%, AMSIGH-2 MET WITH AMECRU-T I

THE LATTER'S HOME. AMECRU-I TOLD AMSIGH-2 THAT HE MET

WITH THE PARUMEN AMBASSADOR TO FRANCE ON HIS LAST DAT IN

PARISO THE AMBASSADOR SUGGESTEO TO AMECRU-I THAT HE ASK

PRESIDENT CALDERA TO FREE THE TWO PBRUMEN PRISONERS HELO

IN VENEZUELA WITHOUT ANYTHING IN EXCHANGE. THE AMBASSADOR

STATED THIS WAS HIS OWM IDEA AND HE WAS NOT FOLLOTING

INSTRUCTIONS FROM HIS GOVERNMENT•

20 WHILE IN VENEZUELA, AMECRU-1 MAD AN INTERVIEW

WITH PRESIDENT CALDERA, WITH THE MINISTER OF INTERIOR, AND

WITH THE MINISTER OF FOREIGN RELATIONS• ARECRU-T WAS

REPORTEOLY TOLD BY ONE OF THE FOREGOING VENEZUELAM OFFICIALS

THAT THE MOST RECENT OFFER MAS UNACCEPTABLE TO THE TEMEZUELAN

SOVERNMENTO AMECRU-I WAS TOLO THAT VENEZUELA MOULD ACCEPT

A PBRUMEN OFFER TO EXCHANGE EIGHT POLITICAL PRISONERS FOR THE •

TWO BEING HELD BY VENEZUELA•

SECRET

$ 95

---

## Page 2

1 3758 8

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

PAGE

PAGE 2 "MIMIAMI MI970 SECRET

SO THE FOREGOING EXCHANGE IS REPORTEOLY COMTINGEMT

UPON FHU I 8 ARR A SNO STATION TRACES) A VENEZUELAN, BEING

ONE OF THE EIGHT MEN RELEASED. AMLIGHT-I WOULB NOT NECESSARILY.

HAVE TO BE INCLUDED INASMUCH AS ANTHUG-D SIMPLY DOES HOT

WANT TO RELEASE MIMO VENEZUELAN SOURCE ALLEGEDLY SAIO

THAT AMCALL-A WOULO OCCUPY THE NUMBER TIO POSITION IN

VENEZUELAN NEGOTIATIONS.

AMPUG-1 AND EMING-S WOULD ALSO

BE INCLUDED IN THESE NEGOTIATIONS• AMECRU-T OFFERED NO

OTHER DETAILS OF THIS TRANSACTION TO AMSIGH-2.

DO IN PARIS AMECRU-I NAS TOLO CUNSPECIFIED BY UHOMS

THAT THE FAMILIES OF AMCALL-S AND ANHINT-3 MOULA HAVE TO

BE PATIENT AND WAIT UNTIL THE PBRUMEN GOVERNNERT DECIDED

IMAX TIME WAS OPPORIUNE TO FREE THESE NEM. IF FAMILIES

DID HOT WISH TO WAIT AMECRU-Y WOULD ATTEMPT TO HAVE THEIR

MONIES REFUNDED.

5, AMECRU-1 ADDED THAT VANISTENDAEL WROTE A LETTER

, WHICH HE FORWARDED TO THE PBRUMEN GOVERSMENT. IT STATEO

: THAT CHEN FREEDS ANCALL-I WOULO REMAIN IN EUROPE TO

-WORK. VANISTENDAEL GAVE MIS PERSONAL ASSURANCE AUCALL-1

TOULO NOT PARTICIPATE IN ÁCTIVITIES AGAIMST ANTING-!.

SECRET

---

## Page 3

Get to at to this giage

375J

•SLEESTFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

PAGE J IN/MIAMI 1117O SECRET

6O VANISTENDAEL POLO AMECRU-T THAT AS A RESULT OF

THEIR BELIEF THAT ANCALL-I MOULO BE RELEASED, THE BELGIANS

GAVE- THE PBRUMENS TWELVE SCHOLARSHIPS SIX MONTHS AGO.

PAGE

FURNITURE AND GOING TO

APRILO ME INTENDS TO SPEND THE NEXT NO MONTHS THERE.

IN JUNE KE WANTS TO GO BACK TO PARIS TO MAKE ANOTHER TRY

AT GETTING AMCALL-1 AND AMHINT -3 RELEASED.

8O ON 26 APRIL AMECRU-1 DEPARTED MIAMI FOR NEW YORK.

9 AMSIGH-2'S REPORT ON MEETING WHICH GIVEN TO

BINPARIS ON 26 APRIL BEING POUCHED.

18. FILEs 281-8618638 289-27590

201-312365.

6P1.

SECRET

SECRET

---

