uncassiFien OC TEMA con’ enmiaL ca secret
ee ree eens

fs
Ep
7 ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT: (Oztional)

FROM: : i ; EXTENSION | NO. as 7
Red DATE =

CfE/G 9256 16 April 1968 ©.» Pe

TO: (Officar designation, coom number, ond DATE : fo a He =

beild.ng) : OFFICER'S | COMMENTS (Number each comment ta show from whom

a stern | torwanneo INITIALS: to whom. Draw a line cerest column ofter each comment.)

is Ct [fey
opejeon ae ce bp pal a
LE em || SOE Span

ty]:

i,

1G 7 Gia
ADDF 26 APR 1968 |S

Co RERHAL EC] UncuassiFien

610 “tienes

SECRET. ([] CONFIDENTIAL


14-00000
.

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director of Central Intelligence

VIA : : Deputy Director for Plans

_ SUBJECT : Tentative Plans of Senator Robert Kennedy
‘| to Visit West Berlin’on 1 May :

REFERENCE : EGBA-86312, dated 12:April 1968

1. . This memorandum is for your information.

2. We have just been advised by Berlin Base that
Senator Robert Kennedy may plan to speak at the 1 May rally
in West Berlin.

7 3. The Press Chief of the West Berlin Senate, Peter
Herz, told a CIA staff officer that Dr. Martin Luther King,
Jr. had originally been scheduled to appear at the 1 May
rally. After King's assassination the Berlin Senate authorized
the Roy Bernard Public Relations Agency of New York to invite
Senator Kennedy as a replacement speaker. According to Herz,
Senator Kennedy informed the Bernard Agency that he wanted a
written invitation, which has been issued.

4. Herz also mentioned that the U.S. Mission to Berlin
had been informed of these plans but our Berlin Base has seen
no mention of the matter in Mission traffic.

5. The annual May Day rally in Berlin has become a
tradition. It takes place in a large field in front of the
restored Reichstag building, which is immediately adjacent to
the sector border between East and West Berlin near the .-.
Brandenburg Gate. “y

YL hp

/John L. Hart.“ i
Chief i
‘European Division : *

cc: DDCI

