104-10337-10006

elune

SECRET

OTE 92~1403
10 February 1992

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director of Central Intelligence

VIA: Director of Training and Education
Director, Center for the Study of Intelligence

FROM: J. Kenneth McDonald
. Chief, CIA History Staff

SUBJECT: Survey of CIA's Records from House Select
Committee on Assassinations Investigation

1. As you requested on 16 January, the History Staff has
now surveyed CIA's records from the House Select Committee on
Assassinations (HSCA) investigation into the assassination of
President John F. Kennedy. As promised in my 30 January
interim report, I can now give you a full account of our
findings, and of my recommendation for transferring this HSCA
collection at its existing classification to the National
Archives through CIA's Historical Review Program,

2. After the Office of Congressional Affairs arranged
permission from Congress for History Staff access to the
sequestered 64 boxes of this collection, we exami e and
other related holdings at Headquarters and the

(Records Centex. As a result of careful, persistent, and

determined inquiries, we are fairly confident--although by no
Means certain--that we have seen all the documents that CIA
collected for the HSCA investigation of 1977-1979. The summary
of our findings which follows is documented in more detail in
attachments A and B.

3. General Description: The HSCA collection (defined as
all records that the CIA provided to that Committee for its
1977-1979 investigation) is a large and chaotic collection.
Beyond the 64 boxes sequestered by Congress that have been
involved in FOIA litigation, there are 16 boxes of Oswald's 201
file and numerous loose folders (mainly from Mexico City
Station records) that were collected for the Warren Commission
investigation. Most of this material can be found on microfilm
in the sequestered collection. Of the 64 boxes, 34 have
material collected by the Directorate of Operations, while

CL BY 0986542)
SECRET DECL OADR


13-00000

SECRET

29 contain records from the Office of Legislative Counsel (now
OCA), Inspector General, Office of the General Counsel,
Directorate of Science and Technology, Office of Security, as
well as several boxes of HSCA staff notes and records. Box No.
64 contains 72 microfilm reels (each equivalent to a box of
records), which include the Oswald 201 file and Mexico City
Station records, as well as other 201 files and information
about Cuban exile groups.

4. Organization: The collection is arranged haphazardly,
having been gathered in response to a series of HSCA and (in
the case of the Oswald 201 file) Warren Commission requests.
Although portions of the collection are organized by a variety
of systems, there is no overall intellectual control of the
entire body of records. We found fifteen indexes to the
collection, none of which is adequate for control or retrieval.

5. Sensitivity: Although the collection is almost
entirely at SECRET or lower classification, there is a
scattering of TOP SECRET and codeword documentation. Materials
we consider especially sensitive--more for privacy than
national security reasons--include 201 files, phone taps, mail
intercepts, security files, photo surveillance, names of
sources, watch lists, and MHCHAOS documentation. Such material
occurs throughout the collection, usually in response to HSCA
requests for name traces. There are 22 microfilm reels of 201
files in addition to the Oswald file, while eight boxes contain
security records, including, for example, files. on. David Atlee
Phillips, Martin Luther King, and Clay Shaw.

6. Non-CIA Material: The collection includes a lot of
third-agency material, mostly from the FBI. FBI reports
dominate the 16 boxes of Oswald's 201 file, and nearly half of
the 34 boxes of DO-collected material consists of third-agency
material. The collection's remaining 29 boxes cofitain mostly
CIA records, as does the box of microfilm, except for Oswald's
201 file. There is also some documentation of foreign liaison,
mainly with the Mexican government.

7. CIA Complicity? Our survey found nothing in these
records that indicates any CIA role in the Kennedy
assassination or assassination conspiracy (if there was one),
or any CIA involvement with Oswald. These records do reveal,
however, that Clay Shaw was a highly paid CIA contract source
until 1956. While nothing surfaced on Carlos Marcello in the
collection, we found substantial documentation on other members
of the mob, including Santos Trafficante.

8. Although the results of our survey fully support my
earlier recommendation against inviting a panel of historians

2
SECRET


13-00000

SECRET

into CIA to examine and report on this collection, the problem
that this proposal addressed remains--the widespread
allegations, given new impetus by Oliver Stone's "JFK," that
CIA was part of a conspiracy to assassinate President Kennedy.
That CIA has a closed collection of records concerning the
Kennedy assassination is well known, both because it is part of
over 800 cubic feet of HSCA investigation records that Congress
has closed until 2029, and because our 64 boxes of these
records have been the subject of FOIA requests, litigation, and
court orders. Since opening all US Government records on the
Kennedy assassination has been proposed by former President
Ford, Congressman Louis Stokes, and others, many observers will
consider your decision on this question a test of your new
openness policy.

9. Options: CIA's three principal options are to keep the
Agency's HSCA records closed and in our hands, to open them
entirely, or to transfer them to the National Archives. Before
making my case for the third option, I should note the
following considerations with respect to the first two:

a. Closed: To maintain the status quo would keep the
collection classified, closed and in CIA's hands,
sequestered by Congress until 2029. CIA would, however,
remain subject to the 1988 court order to review portions
of it in response to FOIA litigation. While putting the
collection into Historical Review Program processing would
speed and broaden its declassification review (which would

“nevertheless take several years), such an internal shift
would probably not change -the public perception of our
closed position. Although keeping these records closed
remains a viable option, it tends both to encourage
suspicion that CIA is part of a cover-up, and to undermine
the credibility of CIA's openness policy. If Congress
should decide to open all HSCA records, howevér, CIA would.
be hard put to keep its HSCA collection closed.

b. Qpened: To open the HSCA collection would require the
permission of Congress. Indeed, CIA would presumably not
consider this option except in response to congressional
action or pressure, or in order not to be the last hold-out
in a Government-wide opening of Kennedy assassination
records. While opening the collection would disclose a
good deal of information that deserves continued protection
for privacy or national security reasons, a total release
would dramatically demonstrate CIA's new openness, and
rapidly reveal that these records contain nothing pointing
to a CIA role in the Kennedy assassination.

3
SECRET


13-00000

SECRET

10. Recommendation: I recommend that CIA transfer its
entire HSCA collection (as defined and identified in this
report) at its existing classification to the National Archives
and Records Administration (NARA), for continuing
declassification review by Archives staff, in accordance with
the relevant laws, regulations and CIA guidelines. This
transfer should be carried out under the auspices of CIA's
Historical Review Program. To retire this HSCA collection to
the National Archives offers some significant advantages:

a. It would get the collection off our hands. Retiring
the records to the National Archives, which is by law the
eventual repository for all permanent US Government
records, should reduce public suspicion of a CIA cover-up.
Such a transfer would not set a new precedent, since CIA
has previously retired over 4000 cubic feet of Office of
Strategic Services operational records to NARA, as well as
all CIA records so far declassified under the Agency's
Historical Review Program. Although CIA has not previously
transferred classified records to NARA, the transfer of
this HSCA collection, resulting from a congressional
investigation, follows the special precedent of the
classified CIA documents retired to NARA's vaults as part
of the records of the Watergate and Iran-Contra
investigations.

b. Transferring these HSCA records to the National
Archives will protect their existing classification. The
Departments of State and Defense have routinely retired
classified records to NARA for years. In accordance with
statutory guidelines, NARA must ensure the confidentiality.
of investigatory sources and the proper protection. of
personal privacy and national security information,
including intelligence sources and methods. NARA would
continue the court-ordered declassification review
according to CIA guidelines. CIA can accelerate the
declassification of this collection by funding review
positions at NARA, as the Department of State and other
agencies have done in the past. (Attachment C outlines
declassification procedures for classified records retired
to the National Archives.)

c.- NARA's professional archivists will bring this
collection under control (as they have done with the 4000
cubic feet of disorganized OSS records that CIA has retired
since 1984), so that it can be usefully researched as it is
declassified. Moreover, many of the records in this
collection (especially photographs, carbon flimsies, and
Thermofax) need expert preservation, which NARA is
organized to provide.

4
SECRET


13-00000

SECRET

d. I£ Congress should eventually undertake to open this
entire collection without regard to classification, the
National Archives will be in a stronger position to protect
its national security and privacy information than the CIA,
whose motives would appear self-serving, if not sinister.

ll. Action: If you wish to retire the Agency's House

Select Committee on Assassinations collection to the National
Archives, the following actions (from the offices noted) will
be needed:

a. Request permission from Congress. (Office of
Congressional Affairs)

b. Transfer responsibility for court-ordered FOIA
declassification review from CIA to the National Archives.
(Office of the General Counsel, with Information Management
Staff, DO)

c. Prepare CIA guidelines for NARA's declassification
review. (Office of Information Technology, DA)

d. Prepare the appropriate Historical Review Program
documentation and NARA forms, and deliver the records.
(Office of Information Technology, DA)

e. Announce the transfer jointly with Dr. Don Wilson,
Archivist of the United States, and Congressman Louis
Stokes. (Public Affairs Office)

/s/ J. Kenneth MsDonel4
J. Kenneth McDonald

Attachments

5
SECRET


13-00000 |

Collection consist

SUMMARY
CIA HISTORY STAFF SURVEY
House Select Committee on Assassinations Collection

10 February 1992

The House Select Committee on Assassinations (HSCA) : pects
S of the following parts, which the attached

box list describes in further detail:

1. Sequestered HSCA Records The first and major part of

the collection, 64 boxes of records under Job No. 80-TO1357A,
is wide-ranging material collected in response to House Select ~
Committee on Assassinations ‘requests for documents xelating to
-the assassinations of President John F. Kennedy and, to.a far
lesser extent, Dr. Martin Luther King. Coordinated by the
Office of Legislative Counsel (now the Office of Congressional
Affairs) and now under OCA control, these are the "sequestered"

boxes that have been the subject of FOIA litigation and court
order, d

a. =34: Boxes 1-34 (34 cu. ft. of records) are
cabout one-half DO-collected materials, with the remainder ~
largely of third agency documents, primarily FBI reports—
gathered for the Warren Commission. There is also some
material from the Department of State and the Immigration,
and Naturalization Service, as well as the original HSCA-:
requests. Also included are stafeé handwritten notes,

. Photographs, and copies of newspaper clippings. These

records cover a wide variety of topics but focus on CIA.
Operations against Cuba and Castro; Lee-Harvey Oswald's
sojourn in the USSR, Oswald's activities in Mexico City and .
New Orleans,: anda large number-of name ‘traces ‘requested by
the HSCA staff. There is’ also material on the Black
Panthers, the civil rights movement, and the peace eae
movement. Among the. subjects that appear in these boxes
are: Jack Ruby, Clay Shaw, Frafk Sturgis, E. Howard_Hunt,
Nosenko, Guy Bannister, “David Ferrie, Silvia Duran, Martin
Luther King, Coretta Scott King; James Earl Ray, William:
Kunstler, Jim Garrison, G. P. Hemming,. Marina Oswald, John
Roselli, Sam Giancana, Santos Trafficante,. and Rolando -
Cubela's AMLASH operations against Castro, These records
also. include the 1967 Inspector General's-report~“on°CIA *
Plots against Castro and the testimony of Richard Helms in
executive session before HSCA.

: CL BY(oe6s42
SECRET DECL OADR



13-00000

b. Boxes 35-63 Boxes 35 through 63 in this job (29 cu.
Ft. of records) are equally eclectic, divided as they are
between records from the Office of Legislative Counsel (now
OCA), Inspector General, Office of the General Counsel,
Directorate, of Science and Technology, Office o£ Security
(security files), and the HSCA itself. These records, .
which are mostly CIA material {heavily DO), consist of
reports, memoranda, transcripts, cables, letters, newspaper
clippings, photographs, and charts. They include materials
relating to the Garrison investigation, Watergate, Cuban
exile activities, and CIA attempts to assassinate Fidel
Castro. There is also some material relating to Martin.
Luther King, black power, .and racial. violence, as well-as-a
DS&T report on photos of the "unknown man" at the Mexico
pret Soviet embassy,’ and an NPIC analysis of the Zapruder
»£ilm. : ori : : nie

ieee
Cc. Box 64: Microfilm Box 64 of Job. No. 80-T01357A°
contains 72 reels of microfilm (although the box is labeled
"CIA/DDO HSCA Records, box 1 of 2," box 2 has not been
found). The History Staff was assured, however, that this
was indeed box 64 of Job No. 80-T01357A. In addition to a
copy of Oswald's 201 file (as actually shown to the HSCA
staff in 1978), the microfilm contains material on Oswald's
activities in Mexico City (primarily photographic and phone
tap surveillance of the Soviet and Cuban embassies and
consulates), Mexico City Station files (including cable
traffic and the station's "Pp" Personality files), CIA
security files, Nosenko interrogation transcripts,-and a ----
great deal of information relating to Cuban -exile.groups.—--—--—
There are algo 22 reels of .201 files, which” contain Skane
individual files. Some of the material on these microfilm
reels reproduces DO material in the boxes, although it is
difficult to ‘judge exactly how much. :

2.. Oswald's 201 File The second part of the HSCA
collection is Lee Harvey Oswald's 201 file, 16 boxes (16 cu.
£t. of records) held in the DO's Information Management Staff
(IMS). This file consists primarily of copies of FBI reports
relating to Oswald, FBI investigations on Oswald and his °
activities (including items that_FBi sent CIA.prior.to the
assassination), interviews with Marina Oswald, Departinent of
State cable traffic concerning Oswald's passport and visa
applications, information tracing Oswald's weapons, material on
Jack Ruby and Silvia Duran, and a tape of Oswald's August 1963
radio debate. There are ‘also detailed FBI reports concerning
Oswald's assassination of the~President ‘and his contacts with
Soviet officials, as well as records relating to Gilberto
Alvarado, who maintained that he witnessed Cubans passing
Oswald cash at a party on the night before the assassination.

ee
SECRET _



13-00000

3. Loose Files The HSCA collection's third part comprises
a number of loose folders that evidently belong within the
Collection, including eight bulky Mexico City Station files
(including cable traffic and "P" files) that are also in the
microfilm. These files are considered to be part of the Oswald
201 file and are held in IMS. A group of 16 file folders that
appear to be unaccessioned contain a miscellany of HSCA
requests and Agency responses on subjects such as Oswald in the
USSR, Marina Oswald, Roselli, and Giancana. These appear to
belong with Job, No. 80-TO1357A.

4. Organization Partly because of the collection's
origins in the disorderly process of the Agency's response to
massive investigatory committee requests, the collection badly
organized. Moreover, years of working through these files in
response to numerous Freedom of Information Act requests have
disrupted the collection further. More importantly, however,
the Agency. has.not taken intellectual control of the collection
in the fifteen years since it was created. Partial systems of
organization have been imposed upon-various parts of the
collection without reference to or use of sound archival
Principles and procedures. Although 15 separate (and
unsatisfactory) indexes to the collection eventually surfaced,
the lack of any central index or finding aid makes retrieval of
individual documents extremely difficult. Although CIA review
officers attempted to impose some order to the collection’ by
numbering each-document and adding a folder numbering system to
each box, there is no central control ‘or finding aid for any of
these these systems... Provenance cannot -be traced, and entire
files are ‘missing that cannot” be? ~Tsatisfactorily” accounted £

5. Non=-record. Copies. this collection consists for the
most part of xeroxed copies rather than original documents. We
suspect that the originals of many, if not most, of these

xeroxed documents would be difficult if not impossible to
locate.

6. Preservation Much of the material throughout the
collection, especially thermofax copies and photos, is fragile
and in poor physical condition, requiring immediate attention
to prevent further deterioration.

SECRET -



13-00000

DEURKE

ANNEX A

FINDING AIDS AND. INDEXES
PUBLISHED:

Sylvia Meagher and Gary Owns, Master Index to the JFK_
stigation (London:Scarecrow Press, 1980).

UNPUBLISHED: :
(From Russ Holmes)

(1) HSCA Requests November 1976-June 1979 Relating to the
DO (3 vol.). This finding aid for DO records provides the OLC
number for each request and the date of the HSCA request - :
(basically in chronological order). It also contains a copy of
each request which includes the Subject, name, or organization
for which information was requested.

(2) Subject and Name Index in card box. This is a subject
index arranged alphabetically on 3x5 cards, It contains the
HSCA request date and wether or not there is CIA (DO)
documentation on the subject. If there is no documentation the
card has an NR. If there is a 201 file it is listed as well as
any looose folders which can be found in boxes 1-34. It is
used in conjunction with the HSCA Requests finding aid. _

(3) Folder Title List for boxes 1-34 (DO materials)., Each
box has a handwritten copy of the folder title list.
Unfortunately, these lists provide very little data or
information on the contents of the folders.

(4) Folder Title List for Microfilm Reels 1-45, This”
includes a Folder Title List for Oswald 201 File (Reels 30-44),

(5) . Finding Aid for House Staff Notes. This finding aid
numbers each documnt 000001-2001204. Unfortunately, there is
no listing of the documents themselves. * Annotated on‘ this ‘list
= Me box number where the document may be located (Boxes

34). :

(6) List of House Staff Members. This is an alphabetical
listing of HOuse staf£ who examined and took notes. on. CIA
documents. It is incomplete. Itr does provide document
numbers for the material they examined.

(7) Inventory Prepared by DO on HSCA Material Returned to
CIA. One wooden box of 3x5 cards. The cards include a variety

_ o£ numbering systems such as a document number, JFK folder

papain and a RS number. ~ The system is not useable-at this
ee : ate : i .

SECRET,


13-00000 -

SECRET

(8) House Indexing System 001-187 JFK. ‘This appears to be
a House system imposed on its documents. It appears in boxes
19-21 but there is no finding aid for it and there are gaps.
(Only CIA materials were returned to the CIA

(9) FOIA Inventory. Numbering System. This was developed
by CIA staff. DO documents are numbered 1-1700, OCA 2000-, All
microfilm 3000-, Office of Security 4000-. There is no central
index for these systems.

(10) Loose Folder Inventory of DO Materials. This is a
folder list for 36 loose folders. ~

MICROFILM

(11) Folder Title List for Reels 1-45.

(12) Folder Title List for Oswald 201 File (Reels 30-44).
Thsi material was actually reviewed by the House Committe staff
n 1978.

(13) Computer Print Out Up-Date for Oswald 201 File
a. Material collected prior to November 22, 1963 (3
page print out).
b, Material collected after November 22, 1963
ct a most recent materials added to the file. (Large print
out). ssststers
- (14) Index to Microfilm Reels 47-72. These are -
handwritten item lists for reels 47-52; a spot check list ‘for
reels 57, 59, 63, 64, and 72.

(15) OCA Index to boxes 49-63.. Organized by HSCA request
date and OLC number. This is a folder title list. , Folder
Title List for boxes 1-34 Cece Records)

History Staff Checklist of boxes 1-63, Oswald's 201 File, and
sampling of microfilm (the microfilm sample includes all reels
not covered by Microfilm Index).

SECRET


13-00000

SECRET

“BOX LIST OF FILES REVIEWED
CIA HISTORY STAFF SURVEY
House Select Committee on Assassinations Collection

10 February 1992

slob No. 80-701357A

Box 1: CIA Security files on numerous individuals, including
G..P, Hemming, Martin Luther King, Marina Oswald, and others;

1967 CIA IG report on plotting against Castro; Garrison
investigation. (File folders 6, 7, 17 and 20 are missing).

Box 2: CIA Security files on William D. Pawley, Frank Sturgis,
Jack Ruby, Clay Shaw, and others; numerous FBI documents and
assorted CIA material.

Box 3: Helms hearing testimony; Mexico City Station cable
‘ traffic; CIA, FBI, Warren Commission, and HSCA correspondence.

Box 4: Chronology of Lee Harvey Oswald's sojourn in the USSR:
CIA operations against Cuba, Castro, and the Cuban Intelligence
Service, including information relating to ZRRIFLE; AMLASH,-~~
AMMUG; description of CIA 201 system; information on Nosenko
interrogation regarding Oswald and his Soviet connections. (File
folder 8 is missing).

v

Box 5: Notes on Oswald; various NSCA notes and affidavits;
transcripts of Helms's testimony; FOIA information.

Box 6: Information relating to Lee Harvey Oswald's activities in
Mexico City, including surveillance from CIA projects LIEMPTY,
LILYRIC, and LIMITED: Garrison investigation; CIA support to
Warren Commission;.- AMMUG debriefing; copies~of-Mexico City —
Station despatches (HMMA); sensitive material on. photocoverage of
Soviet, Cuban, Czech, and Polish embassies in Mexico City; an
index to HSCA papers held by CIA; an index of Warren Commission
exhibits; information relating to Silvia Duran; a copy of an
agreement between the Director and Chairman Louis Stokes requiring
the CIA to retain for 30 years all materials gathered in response
to Committee requests;. Richard Helins executive session testimony
in 1978 before the committee; an index to requests to the CIA
from J. Lee Rankin of the Warren Conmission.

Ct By (0986542 °
SECRET . DECL OADR


13-00000

Hs neatervanl in JER Jores!
cia Ge MOOT LT aT
aie = 29,730, Z), 24-36, oO, t 5
48, 5D 255, FJ 62 Sala ine

t
ee ee aE oo ee Se

i

Sas eee 7 ~ ce



13-00000

SECRET

Box 7: Mexico City Station surveillance of Cuban, Soviet
embassies; AMMUG; Silvia Duran; Oswald's activities in New
Orleans (FBI report); monthly operations reports from Mexico City
Station; summaries of HMMA cables; Cuban exile mug books;
Gilberto Alvarado, the Nicaraguan who claimed he saw Lee Harvey
Oswald receive cash in meeting inside Mexico City Cuban embassy;
transcripts of phone calls to and from Soviet embassy; a machine
listing of documents officially recorded as being in Oswald's 201
file (list-missing from folder); Warren Commission trip to Mexico
City and interview with U.S. Ambassador Thomas Mann; Jack Ruby;
Faic Play for Cuba Committee; FBI reports on Oswald; HTLINGUAL
documents; Nosenko interviews; and interview of Mexico City

Station personnel by committee staff. (File folder 37 is missing).

Box.8: HSCA requests primarily for name traces involving
individuals, including James "Earl ‘Ray, Clay Shaw, John Roselli,
Sam Giancana, Santos Trafficante; 1977 CIA study on Church
committee findings relating to the CIA; HSCA requests to
interview CIA personnel; ZRRIFLE; information relating to the
Cuban airline flight from Mexico City to Havana; Nosenko
interviews; photos of anti-Castro individuals.

Box 9: Primarily HSCA requests for name traces on individuals and
Organizations; CIA surveillance operations in Mexico City;
copies of cable traffic from Mexico City Station. (File folder 76
Missing). “eftew 7 contains enero oH Mullen Co.

Ny M1 VEELRSTS Fm :
Box 10:,, Name traces from 201 files, HTLINGUAL mail intercepts,
and MHCHAOS files, including individuals associated with Black ~~~
Panthers, Students for a Democratic Society, the civil rights
movement, Ramparts, and the peace movement. Material on Henry
Winston, Maurice Halperin, George Edward Wright, Julian Bond,
William Kunstler, James Earl Ray. Also Lee Harvey Oswald and Jim
Garrison. e
Box 11: Misc. items on JFK assassination; HSCA material,
including personal history of Nosenko and Oswald chronology.

Box 12: HSCA chronologies 1976-78;. draft reviews and CIA
comments; Oswald dossier forwarded to Warren-Commission;
Garrison investigation of JFK assassination; CIA chronology of
memos received from Warren Commission; HSCA chronology,
January-March 1978. : ee aaa

Box 13: Alphabetical filés of individuals marked “completed” .or
“pending” based on 201 files.

Box 14: Primarily HSCA requests for name traces on individuals
and organizations; some 201 files; interviews with POWs from Bay
of Pigs; FBI and Immigration and Naturalization Service reports

on Oswald.
a
SECRET.



13-00000
aan SECRET

Box 15: Alphabetical files based on CIA, State, and FBI on
numerous individuals including Claire Booth Luce, Clay Shaw,
Martin Luther King, and Coretta Scott King.

Box 16: Copies of 201 files; interview and transcripts relating
to Mexico City activities of Oswald and the Mafia,

Box 17: JMWAVE cable; DCI cable traffic.

Box 18: HSCA chronology; Oswald 201 file; report on CIA .
performance. ae

Box 19: HSCA staf£ notes, taken at CIA. (File folders 2-5, 14,
18, 25, 28 and 34-35 missing. _ With HSCA records?)

Box 20: Follow-up ‘requests from HSCA on name traces; handwritten
notes of committee staff members on CIA 201 files; CIA
Surveillance of Soviet embassy in Mexico City; Oswald's
activities in Mexico City; copies of staff interviews with CIA
personnel (file folders 58-62, 65, 69-70, 73-74, 80, 83, 85-86,
88-92, 96, 101, 103 and 112 are missing, while folder 57 is
empty. With HSCA records?)

Box 21: SCA requests by JFK file number.
Box 22: HSCA staff notes, misc.

Box 23: HSCA staff notes: -misc., including Helms's testimony in.
executive session. os : . :

Box 24: HSCA staf€ notes: misc., including Mexico City
+ interviews and speculation about a dual CIA filing system re

Oswald and Oswald's relationship to Agency. -
Box 25: Committee staff notes on materials reviewed at CIA
relating to Oswald and his possible connections with the CIA and
his activities in Mexico City; a sanitized copy of the 1977 CIA
report on the Church Committee findings; information relating to
Cuban embassy officials in Mexico City, including Silvia Duran, ©
Eusebio Lopez, and Alfredo Diaz.

Box 26: Documents re Oswald's Mexico City visit; DCI's
appearance before Warren Commission; allegations of Oswald's
connection with CIA.

Box 27: Agency file om Oswald, as sent to Warren Commission;
Nosenko interrogation notes.

3
SECRET


13-00000
: SECRET

Box 28: HSCA files mixed in with FBI and CIA documents;
investigation of Silvia Duran, 28 November 1963; numerous HSCA
handwritten notes.

Box 29: Alphabetical file on individuals from various sources,
including Guy Bannister, Clay Shaw, and David Ferrie. :

Box 30: HSCA report on Cuba trip, 1978; handwritten notes on
Oswald; Domestic Contact Division notes on Garrison
investigation;- and information on Nosenko.

Box 31: Administrative materials, correspondence between“HSCA and
CIA, index and file of HSCA material returned to DO.

BOx 32: Mexico City Station cables and dispatches. i

Box 33: Cuban’ Mugbook and Mexico City Station traffic, October
1 1963-January 1964.

Box 34: HSCA files on George de Mohrenschildt; Cuban Mugbook;
HSCA reading file; CIA relations with FBI and Warren Commission;
Nosenko on Oswald; and Ruby's alleged travel to Cuba.

Box 35: Review of HSCA trip to Cuba and Mexico; HSCA report on
Silvia Odio; report, “CIA Operations against Cuba prior to the
Assassination of President John F. Kennedy on 23 November 1963;"
and Senate Select Committee reports and comments.

Box 36: Review, what.could Castro have known?;---review of HSCA
draft report; IG report on Cuban operations for~1960-64,~ for any
bearing upon JFK assassination; Book V of Church Committee final
report, with review by Agency of provocation theory (charges of
Agency cover-up of Cuban operations); E. Howard Hunt file;

Mexico City/Havana flights; Win Scott; AMTRUNK; Oswald contacts.
with Soviet and Cuban embassies, Mexico City; CIA relations with
FBI and Warren Commission; Alpha 66; photo of unidentified man,
Mexico City; cable traffic, AMLASH, AMWHIP; Mafia plotting;

Jack Ruby/Cuba; QUWIN, ZRRIFLE.

Box 37; Information relating to Cuban exile activities: against
Castro, such as the Torriente Group and Alpha 66; name trace on
E. Howard Hunt; and information relating to the Garrison
investigation. : - Guan

Box 38: Alphabetical files, including Hemming, Luce, Sturgis,
Roselli, James McCord, and Nosenko; file on U-2 overflights from
Japan; DDS&T report on photos of unknown man.

Box 39: Photo comparisons of E. Howard Hunt and Frank Sturgis
with tramps arrested in Dallas on day of JFK assassination; chart
of frames from the Zapruder £ilm showing the actual assassination.

Hear | ae Se enieanae
SECRET


13-00000

Pax 31

Znvelape Nod @entaius nine (3) IWnear tuches of SXT cards
Cound same 3% eaves), Cteale>d by HscA sheffees, cemtaracug gist
inBrmeten Nkawe > fron Theat euds with GA ase loaeet , From
GA Bles aus repls o USCA Asrre tons, They ove white
house? os HSCA dousmuals © mon AcEteguive saurhauty,
Yellow Rastds ave atteded A TL cards vrequivdic Souihday.

On wssua is Mh ‘Haptea Sku window ime conds tefleet
Aros Ts oud Ram Meyice CO aGSn December WON

Alsa Rea Shee aq esl box ($4 In cov imeber) ec ax
Cards tan Sottucbery pre pers? by Ny Do, of Hsea voodine\
tehayvne) Ta C1€.. The cats cemlaiu a vert) of (unex plaraed))
muukers and conaru, mosey, Hsed sh -cebchens of tulawidas,
Cia vevpentes TK Quevies, Wawa Ganmisscnn or C14 /2G papers?
ho mubstauca, \ust-topic listia( oe asics )evyptey tT New
Wo & NG cavds eRATIL Yequire sou Baw } ouather 106
Pion reas evn OES (mosl, Caton) They weal hows & be further
Yestanche & “bh, hedenmme  telease ob (Jy. The Rte does ck 2p por

Te We ur, Al as such , seu ui nou Somiizne, Ther iL ber

beeu asWike—banded alse.


13-00000

SECRET

Box 40: Security files (including record of those files a
inadvertantly destroyed).

Box 41: Security files (alphabetical), including Lucien Conein;
also material on Faic Play for Cuba Committee.

Box 42: Name traces from Office of Security files; Garrison
investigation information; a copy of a manuscript, "The Kennedy
Conspiracy: “An Uncommissioned Report on the Jim Garrison
Investigation;" copies of material relating to Oswald shown to
Committee staff at CIA. a

Box 43: Security files (some missing, inadvertantly destroyed).
Files present include that of Martin Luther King.

Box 44: Security files.

Box 45: Security files, including those of David Atlee Phillips
“and Clay Shaw. .

Box 46: HSCA requests for information relating to Frank Sturgis,
Clay Shaw, and Watergate; information relating to JMWAVE and the
Miami Station; FBI reports on left-wing and racial unrest in U.S.

Box 47: Security files, mostly newspaper clippings; list of
notes by HSCA staff member; Oswald security materal; newspaper
articles on Oswald; ‘unsanitized material released in sanitized
form via FOIA from Oswald material. Pa

"Box 48: Security files, includingl Position Control Régister
.. (1960-64); HSCA staf£ notes reviewed by OS; HSCA staff review at
headquarters of selected OS files (including Roselli and -

Giancana), plus other name traces through OS, including Gerald P.
Hemming.

Box 49: Name trace requests; transcripts of interviews of CIA
personnel; executive session transcript of a Senate Armed
Services Committee meeting, 21 November 1973, regarding CIA
assassination plots; CIA plans to assassinate Castro; and the
.Mafia/CIA connection in attempts to assassinate Castro.

Box 50: HSCA requests by date; Oswald chronology; draft copy of
Hornbeck Report. i

Box 51: Numerous HSCA requests and individual files; .dack Ruby
file as well as Hemming, Hall, Pawley, M. L. King, and others.

Box 52: HSCA reviews by date; Cuban Counter-revolutionary
Handbook, 1962 & 1964; photos of ‘unkown man; NPIC analysis of
Zapruder film, and Hoch memorandum.

5
SECRET


13-00000

a : SECRET

Box 53: HSCA request log and priority response list; copy of
manuscript, "Castro's Red Hot Hell": information relating to HSCA
leaks, guidelines, procedures, clearances, and secrecy agreements,

Box 54: HSCA staff notes.
Box 55: HSCA staff notes; HSCA chronologies, 1953-77.

Box 56: FBI reports on racial violence in the U.S. in 1967 and
the Black Power movement and Martin Luther King; deposition
material, but not the actual depositions, of Ray Rocca, John
McCone, Richard Helms, and David Phillips.

Box 57: Mexico City Station file, 1959-68; correspondence
concerning HSCA visit to Mexico; HSCA receipts, testimony, etc.;
1975 report on unidentified man at Cuban embassy; HSCA request
for JMWAVE traffic. -

Box 58: IG report on Church Committee final report, book Vv;
annex to task force report (AMLASH); DDCI testimony before
committee (Dec. 1978); sca final _repork-(summary) and
correspondence; internal DO memos re Warren Commission (what to
tell it re Cuban operations?); correspondence/memos re HSCA
interviews and depositions from Win Scott, Golitzyn, Shevchenko,
McCone, Nosenko (for most part, interviews and depositions
themselves not here).

Box 59: HSCA press releases and correspondence

Box 60: Nosenko material, including polygraph
HSCA memos; James J. Angleton material, 1977-78.

Box 61: Copies of House Select Committee draft reports and CIA
comments relating to Cuban exiles and their activities against
bea Silvia Duran, AMLASH,. and Oswald's activities in Mexico
City. : :

Box 62: HSCA requests; photo surveillance around Cuban embassy
in Mexico City; CIA/HSCA defector study; various. interviews
about JFK's death.

Box 63: Warren Commission reports on Oswald; a House report on
Oswald's activities in New Orleans; CIA plots to -assassinate
Castro; and a folder on Ray Rocca's testimony before the
Rockefeller Commission (his testimony is not-present in the
folder); and information relating to the disposition of CIA
materials relating to ‘the House investigation.

6
SECRET



13-00000

SECRET

History Staff reviewed Reels for which there were no description.
These were Reels 46, 53-56, 59, 60-62, and 65-71. History Staff
also sampled Reels 1, 14, 18, 22, 24, 26, 30, 31, and 44. Reels
reviewed, as follows: -

Reel 1: CIA-Security files in alphabetical order, containing
background investigation results, memos, passport applications,

Reel 14: CIA Security files, in alphabetical order.

Reel 18: True name dossier from Office of Security files; list
of U.S. defectors to Soviet Bloc; material on WIROGUE and the
Congo; Cuban exile operations to infiltrate men into Cuba.

Reel 22: AMMUG; ,LIEMPTY; -LILYRIC; LINCHPIN; LIENVOY (Mexico
City surveillance activities of the Cuban and Soviet embassies in
Mexico City. :

Reel 24: Photo surveillance of Cuban embassy in Mexico City,
August & November 1963; photo surveillance of USSR embassy in
Mexico City, July-December 1963; Garrison investigation articles
and CIA correspondence.

Reel 26: Extensive file on Cuban exile groups in U.S. receiving
CIA help; DRE, Liberation Army of Cuba.

Reel “30:~ Mexido City Station files; CIA personnel records}:
Mexico City message traffic relating to Silvia Duran; photos of
individuals entering or leaving the Soviet embassy and the Cuban

consulate in Mexico City; press accounts of Garrison trial of
Clay Shaw. 7

Reel 31: Oswald diaryj . Warren Commission file numbers and
inventory; . index of Mexico City traffic; Mexico City :
chronology; 1975 CIA report’on unidentified man; ..1975 CIA, report
on Cuba-JFK connection; list of “soft files" ‘at beginning of :
microfilm. eee * eee : :
Reel 44: Warren Commission documents relating to Oswald; ©" ~*
Ambassador Thomas Mann's meeting with the Commission staff in
Mexico City in 1964;. Helms affidavit, 1964; Jack Ruby; Marina
Oswald; Clay Shaw; and Jim Garrison. : : :

Reel 46: Nosenko files; Mexico City Station chronological file;
and a list of all station despatches from 10/15/63 to 11/27/63 (20
despatches missing). :

Reel 53: CIA Security/201 files in alphabetical order.

7:
SECRET


13-00000

SECRET

Reel 54: CIA Security/201 files; maps‘of Cuba; reports on
Mexican/Cuban activities.

Reel 55: CIA Security files.

Reel 56: CIA Security files.

Reel 59:- CIA Personnel files (including fitness reports).
Reel 60: CIA Personnel files. '

Reel 61: Nosenko interrogation: information relating to
Golitsyn; Cuban exile groups and their anti-Castro activities;
William Pawley's anti-Castro activities. a :

Reel 62: CIA Nosenko interrogation transcripts;. Cuban *
Revolutionary Council progress reports, March-April 1963; ‘list of
Cuban consulate employees worldwide; FBI report on Cuban
government in exile in NYC; monthly expenditures of Cuban
Revolutionary Council (CRC).

Reel 65: Cuban exile organizations such as the Cuban
Revolutionary Council (CRC), Cuban Democratic Revolutionary Front
(CDRF), Judicatura Cuban Democratica, and the 30 November Movement.

Reel 66: AMBUD file on CRC, monthly reports, statement of
expenses, proposed programs and projects, budget projections and
accounting statements. of _the Council,

* AMBUD (co: - Toh on) “£ RC budg
documents relating to the coordination problems within and between
Cuban exile groups.

Reel 68: Col. Johnson Working File; weekly summary reports;. the
underground in Cuba; CRC activities and position papers;
translations of Council documents; biographic information on CRC
leaders Dr. Miro Cardona and Tony Varona. :

Reel 69: CRC and the Cuban exile community; meeting “an San Jose
and around Latin America~-selection of. delegates, expenses, and
recruitment efforts.

Reel 70: CRC finances; Brigade 2506; Juan Bosch interview in
Dominican Republic with Cuban exiles; and information relating to
CRC delegates to various Latin American governments.

Reel 71: Cuban organizations; photos of Mexican embassy entrance.

Reel 72: Photos of Mexican embassy entrance.

SECRET ©



13-00000

SECRET
Oswald 20) File

Box 1: mostly FBI interviews/investigation notes; items sent by
FBI to CIA prior to JFK assassination regarding Oswald's
activities in New Orleans; State Department .correspondence
regarding Oswald defection and return; Silvia Duran material;

newspaper articles; Mexico City Station files; and other
material. ~

Box 2: FBI background investigation of Oswald and his wife’
Marina's activities while in the Soviet Union.

Box 3: FBI background investigation of Oswald activities in New
Orleans; FBI interviews of Marina Oswald; information relating
to the Fair Play for Cuba Committee; State Department actions

‘regarding Oswald's passport and visa applications; FBI tracing of

weapons connected with Oswald; information on Jack Ruby; anda
tape of the radio debate in which Oswald participated in August
1963.

Box 4: FBI reports on Oswald; FBI interviews with Oswald and
Marina after the assassination; copy of Cuban government's
protest to Mexican authorities ‘over the arrest and treatment of

hedahfete Duran; and an index to the FBI reports is included in the
OX. ‘

Box 5: FBI investigation of the assassination (3 vo
of Oswald's diary while he Was in Mosdow;  biographi. I
Marina Oswald; a copy of Oswald's ‘chronology while in the Soviet
Union; and a copy of the questions for the Soviet government
composed by CIA officials. i

Box 6: Oswald chronology; biography of Marina Oswald; _ Warren
Commission correspondence; name traces of those who appear in.
Oswald diary; Warren Commission correspondence; Oswald Mexico--
trip; Oswald address book; Silvia Duran Mexican interrogation;
newspaper clippings. . eee

Box 7: FBI reports on Oswald; Nosenko interviews; “photos of
Oswald in Minsk; list of Oswald's apartment articles; and a name
list of CIA traces for the Warren Commission. - . 7

Box 8: Photos shown to Marina Oswald for ID purposes; - SR/CI
Studies for the Warren Commission; continuing FBI investigation,
Dallas area; interview with Marina; Oswald/Ruby alleged
association; attachments to Oswald chronology in USSR.

Box 9: Copy of Marina Oswald's notebook with addresses; list of
items prepared by CI on Oswald care for the Warren Commission;



13-00000

4 SECRET

Oswald's contacts in the Soviet Union; and an FBI report on
Oswald's activities in Mexico; a CIA brief for presentation to
the Warren Commission on Oswald; Soviet Government documents
relating to Oswald; and a translation of a Portuguese book, A_
Conspiracao

Box 10: FBI investigations; Nosenko material; anti-Castro
activities in U.S.; CIA report of Oswald in Mexico City; CIA
report on Oswald defection; CIA report of Oswald as oon
murderer; assorted FBI items.

Box 11: Bulky material, mostly SR/CI Studies for Warren :
Commission; FBI reports; Marina Oswald material; Oswald cuban
application; USSR radio and newspaper traffic; Silvia Duran
interview;. foreign press reaction to JFK assassination and Warren
Commission report; photos of unidentified man in Mexico City;
Bernard Fensterwald FOIA case; assorted CIA and FBI material.

Box 12: Warren Commission Log Book £rom National Archives;
master list of Warren Commission correspondence and exhibits from
National Archives; and copies of FBI reports on‘the assassination.

Box 13: HTLINGUAL intercepts (Russian language with some
translations); SE soft file on Oswald; Nosenko information on
other Soviet defectors.

Box 14: Copies of CIA documents still classified in the Warren
Commission records held at the National Archives; Oswald's —
activities in the Soviet -Union;~-- information relating to° Gilberto”
Alvarado “Source D", Silvia Duran, and Oswald in Mexico;
transcripts of telephone intercepts from the Mexico City Station.

Box 15: CIA-Warren Commission released materials, 1964;

background on Jack Ruby, Oswald; Oswald's Soviet medical record;
National Archives list’ of status of CIA documents in Warren ~
Commission records, 1967; Soviet press reaction to

assassination; internal memoranda and other records of. the Warren
Commission; transcript of executive session of the Warren
Commission; Oswald's Mexico trip, Soviet defection; Oswald's
alleged CIA connections; Warren Commission-material;~"“kook"
cases; follow-up on numerous "leads"; Helms's file on Oswald and
Warren Commission documents (as of January 1964). EE

Box 16: Garrison investigation, newspaper clippings, and other
reports; Warren Commission memos.
Mexico City stati ei) 8 bulky files)

(Considered part of the Oswald 201 file; to be placed in box
within Oswald's 201 file) :

10
SECRET


13-00000
a ae SECRET

Mexico Station files on Oswald (P-files); Oswald chronology;
Mewspaper clippings; FBI report on Oswald in Mexico city; misc.
material on Oswald in Mexico; Garrison investigation material
(mostly newspaper clippings); Warren Commission testimony.

HSCA Miscellaneous Folders (16 folders)
(These file folders, which are unaccessioned at present, will be
placed within HSCA collection, Job No. 80-T01357A)

HSCA requests; information on Oswald-in USSR; Marina’ Oswald;
documents on Roselli and Giancana.

il
SECRET


13-00000

ADMINISTRATIVE--INTERNAL USE ONLY

27 March 1992

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director of Central Intelligence
FROM: Historical Review Task Force

SUBJECT: Task Force Report on Historical Review Program
Declassification Guidelines

1. The accompanying report responds to your 13 February 1992
request that we form a Task Force to prepare declassification
guidelines for the Historical Review Program.

2. Attached to the report is a revised Headquarters
Regulation (HR 70-14), which establishes general policies and
guidelines to ensure that the Historical Review Program has an
impetus toward declassification. The guidance in this Regulation
will enable the Program both to fulfill the expectations of the
Congress when Mr. Casey established the Program in 1985, and to
give the American people the expanded access to CIA's historical
records that you announced in your 21 February speech in Tulsa.

3. We asked the deputy directors and independent office heads
to select Task Force members who could address both general policy
and declassification issues, and we asked members to express their
components‘ views as well as their own. We have attached a list
of Task Force members and of other Agency officers who took part
in our work. The Task Force met eight times as a group, and we
met separately with many of its members and consulted with other
federal agencies, including the National Archives and Records
Administration, the Departments of State and Defense, the National
Security Agency, and the Information Security Oversight Office.

4. Our report reflects a consensus of the Task Force members,
and we are grateful for the knowledge, judgment, and good will
that all members brought to our efforts. We are prepared to
discuss the Task Force's work and report at your convenience.

Kon tth Mr forotf f | we UAL UY ]

“fg, Kenneth McDonald ~ W. George son ~ oan

Chief, CIA History Stafé Chief, Litigation Division
Co-chairman Co-chairman
Attachment

ADMINISTRATIVE--INTERNAL USE ONLY


13-00000

MEMBERSHIP

Task Force
on
Historical Review Guidelines

Cochairmen:
W. George Jameson J. Kenneth McDonald
Chief, Litigation Division (OGC) Chief, CIA History Staff
Members:

Doug A.
Chief, DO Component

James A. Barry
Deputy Director, Center for the Study of Intelligence

Terry Joseph Busch
Deputy Director of Leadership Analysis (DI)

Lee K. Coyle
Chief, Information Management Staff/
Operational Support Group (DO)

Kathryn I. Dyer
Information Review Officer (DI)

Eunice Evans
Deputy Chief, Information Privacy & Classification
Review Division (OIT/DA)

Jane Bowman Fraser
Deputy Chief, Program Resources Div. (OIT/DA)

— = Officer (DS&T)

a (0GC)

David D. Gries
Director, Center for the Study of Intelligence

Information Review Officer (DA)

we 7

Chief, Information Management Staff
Litigation Support Staff (DO)



13-00000

Susan Kessler
Office of Inspector General

Frederick F. Manget
Chairman, Publications Review Board (PAO)

Mary S. McAuliffe
Deputy Chief, CIA History Staff

we eee ee

ary

ey DrTecear loca)
Becky L. Rant
Information Review Officer (O/DCI)

John H. Wright
Information and Privacy Coordinator

Additional Participants:

Robert B.
Deputy Chief, DO Component

John Carver
Classification Review Branch, Information Privacy &
Classification Review Division (OIT/DA)

George W. Clarke
Counsel to the Inspector General

Ss?
Director, National Intelligence Council,
Analytic Group

Chief Paralegal, Litigation Division (OGC)


13-00000

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY

27 March 1992

REPORT OF THE DCI TASK FORCE ON
HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM
DECLASSIFICATION GUIDELINES

1. On 13 February 1992, the Director of Central
Intelligence asked W. George Jameson, Chief of the Litigation
Division, OGC, and J. Kenneth McDonald, Chief of the CIA
History Staff, to co-chair a Task Force to prepare
declassification guidelines for a reorganized and expanded
Historical Review Program. This report is the result of the
work of that Task Force.

2. Premises: The DCI's speech on “CIA and Openness" to
the Oklahoma Press Association of 21 February 1992 expressed
the intent to make CIA and the intelligence process more
visible and understandable in light of changing world
circumstances, and from this the Task Force operated on the
following premises:

A. The Historical Review Program (Program) established
in 1985 will become the responsibility of the Center for
the Study of Intelligence (CSI).

B. Custody, control, and declassification authority
for records reviewed under the Program will be transferred
from the originating offices to the Director, CSI, in order
to accelerate declassification review.

C. The Program will fully conform to EO 12356,
“National Security Information,“ and maintain the DCI‘s
broad statutory authority to protect intelligence sources
and methods.

D. As part of CIA‘s movement toward greater openness,
the DCI has directed that the Program have “a bias toward
declassification of historical documents."

E. The Program will review for declassification three
principal categories of CIA records:

® All documents 30 years old or older (except for

certain operational files exempted from FOIA search
and review by the CIA Information Act of 1984).

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY


13-00000

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY

@ All National Intelligence Estimates on the
former Soviet Union 10 years old or older.

® Records (including operational files) on
selected topics and events of particular historical
value or public interest.

F. On an annual basis, CIA will publish an index of
“all documents the Agency has declassified and approved for
release.

3. Objective and Products: The Task Force's primary goal
was to prepare guidelines to help this voluntary Program make
sound and consistent declassification decisions and to ensure
that the Program has an impetus toward declassification.
Recognizing the futility of any attempt to formulate rigid
instructions that dictate decisions for all possible cases, or
exhaustive lists of categories of information that reviewers
automatically must declassify or protect, the Task Force
prepared for DCI approval a proposed revision of Headquarters
Regulation 70-14 (attached), which establishes general policies
and guidelines for the Program.

The Task Force expects that the guidelines in this document
will advance the Program's objective to declassify and. release
the maximum volume of information to the public consistent with
national security by emphasizing clearly and specifically that:

@ The Program is guided by a presumption for
disclosure.

® The CSI rather than the components will exercise
declassification authority for historical records.

@ Reviewers may not automatically protect or
release documents.

® Reviewers may not withhold information without
articulating with reasonable specificity the
possible damage to national security expected from
disclosure of the information.

® The guidelines, firm in principle yet flexible
in application, identify certain factors that
reviewers must consider in determining whether
damage could result.

@ The Program will continue to protect
information, including intelligence sources and
methods, that could damage the national security.


13-00000

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY

4. Organization: The History Staff in CSI, after
consulting with a wide range of historians, will select groups
of permanent records (excepting certain operational files) 30
years old or older for systematic declassification review, and
locate and collect for review records on specific events or
topics of historical interest selected with the DCI's
approval. A new Historical Review Group in CSI will carry out
declassification review in accordance with the Program's
guidance. (The Program will ordinarily focus on inactive
records, although on occasion it may be necessary to review

‘active files.) At the beginning of each calendar year, the
Director of CSI will submit a report to the DCI on the
Program's work during the preceding year, and on its plans for
the coming year.

5. Guidelines for Declassification: In preparing the
guidelines in the Regulation to give new impetus to
declassification, the Task Force focused on the following
issues:

A. Presumption for Disclosure: To carry out the DCI's
commitment to the Program, the Task Force emphasized the
presumption for disclosure. Since EO 12356 provides that
information may be classified only if its disclosure

- reasonably could be expected to cause damage to the
national security, an essential Task Force objective was to
prepare useful guidance for reviewers to determine damage.
Unless reviewers can articulate how disclosure could damage
the national security, they must declassify information
even if it. concerns matters the Agency has routinely
withheld from public release, such as CIA presence in a
specific country, the fact of certain covert action
operations, Agency organization and personnel, and
information withheld solely on grounds of the “mosaic*
effect. Since most records will be at least 30 years old,
and most operational records will be exempt from systematic
review, the Task Force expects that the Program can
declassify substantial amounts of information without
damage to national security.

B. Sources and Methods: The Task Force was careful to
ensure that the Program's guidelines do not undermine the
DCI‘s broad authority to protect intelligence sources and
methods. The guidelines reiterate EO 12356's presumption
that the unauthorized disclosure of intelligence sources,
methods, or foreign government information will damage the
national security. Such information, however, will not be
automatically withheld under this Program. Although
members were concerned about cover disclosure issues, the
Task Force agreed that as an intelligence method, cover
will be governed by these guidelines.


13-00000

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY

C. CIA Presence Abroad: The Regulation does not
automatically protect the fact of the presence of CIA
representatives in a specific country or relationships with
foreign governments. Such information may be protected
upon a reasonable showing of possible damage. The Task
Force concluded that in many cases such presence or
relationship might be disclosed by substituting for deleted
particulars such terms as “CIA representatives" and
“government officials" or “authorities.”

D. Publicly Available Information: Under this
Program, the extent to which information is already
available to the public, especially information that the
Publications Review Board has approved for publication,
will be a significant consideration in declassification
review. There is a presumption that information that has
appeared publicly will not damage national security, unless
a reviewer can articulate how official confirmation could
cause additional damage.

E. Protection of Unclassified Material: Reviewers may
withhold some information even if it is unclassified.
(Examples are information protected by discretionary
privileges such as deliberative process--especially
involving the Director and President--attorney work
product, attorney-client, and witness statements.) This
material also will not automatically be protected, and
reviewers must articulate expected harm to US interests in
order to protect it. Much of the information in this
category will probably be disclosed. Information
prohibited by law from disclosure (e.g., privacy data) will
continue to be protected.

6. Procedures: To be effective in accelerating the

declassification review, the Program will ensure that
components are consulted. The Regulation addresses this and
certain procedural matters as follows:

A. Consultation: The CSI will advise the responsible
components of its selection of records and consult with
them as necessary ‘in conducting its review.

B. Appeal Process: Records approved by the Director
of CSI for declassification will be made available to the
appropriate deputy directors or heads of independent
offices, who will have 30 working days to appeal any
decision to the Director, CSI. If the appeal is denied,
they will have 10 working days to appeal that decision to
the DCI.


13-00000

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY

Cc. Re-review: In its review, the CSI will identify
records that cannot be released, and will review them again
hot more than 10 years later.

D. Index: CIA will publish an annual index of all
Agency documents approved for release (e.g., under the
FOIA, but not the Privacy Act). This will serve both the
public and the Program's research needs. It has been
suggested that CSI publish this index, but the Task Force
is convinced that such an index will require ADP expertise,
personnel, and equipment far beyond. anything available in
the Center. Although the Historical Review Group will
record its final review determinations, the Task Force
recommends that the Office of Information Technology (OIT)
be asked to develop and maintain this index.

7. Application to Other Review Programs: The guidelines
will inevitably have an impact on the release of Agency
information under other review programs, such as the FOIA.
While standards need to be consistent, many different factors
will determine whether CIA will release information in any
given situation. The Task Force therefore agreed that the
Program's guidelines for historical records should be taken
into account Agency-wide, but that their specific application
to other review programs should be the subject of future study.

8. Resources: The Agency's current means of recording
declassification and other disclosure decisions are
rudimentary, fragmented, and entirely inadequate. The Task
Force believes OIT should develop and maintain a data base both
to track all Agency disclosures and to facilitate the
publication of the annual index. Additional resources for OIT
may be required. Directorates and independent offices also
will require additional resources both to conduct appeals of
the Program's decisions, and to cope with the impact of the new
declassification guidelines on their review of Agency
information under the FOIA and other programs.

9. Conclusion: The Task Force recognizes that applying
the proposed guidelines will raise some complex issues that CSI
can only resolve by consulting the rest of the Agency as the
Program actually gets underway. While making the Program
succeed will demand extraordinary energy, commitment, and sound
judgment, we believe that our guidelines give the Program the
foundation it needs to begin its pioneering work.

Attachment


13-00000

INFORMATION AND RECORDS MANAGEMENT HR 70-14
14. CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

SYNOPSIS. This regulation prescribes the
responsibilities, guidelines, and procedures for the
declassification review and release of permanent Agency
records under the CIA Historical Review Program.

a. GENERAL

(1) The Agency's Historical Review Program (hereafter, the
Program) is established to make significant historical
information available to the public without damage to
the national security interests of the United States.
This includes systematic review for declassification
and release of: all permanent records 30 years old or
older (with the exception of certain operational
files); other records on selected topics or events;
and certain National Intelligence Estimates.

(2) Reaffirming the principle that the US Government's
records should be available to the public, this
Program.will declassify and release to the public the
maximum volume of historical records consistent with:

(a) The responsibilities of the Director of Central
Intelligence (DCI) under the National Security
Act of 1947 and the CIA Act of 1949, as amended,
to protect intelligence sources and methods and
organizational and personnel information.

(b) The requirements of Executive Order 12356 and
successor orders to protect national security
information.

(c) Provisions of law that govern the public
disclosure of information.

(3) The Agency will transfer records declassified and
approved for release under this Program to the
National Archives and Records Administration
(hereafter, National Archives) for public use.

(4) The Agency will also make information available to the
public in other ways, including the release of
declassified records to the Department of State for


13-00000

publication in its documentary history series, The_
Forei i e United States. Such Agency
material released to the Department of State will also
be transferred to the National Archives through the
Program.

b. AUTHORITY. The Historical Review Program is established
in accordance with:

q)

(2)

- @)

(4)

Executive Order 12356, which prescribes a uniform
system for classifying, declassifying, and
safeguarding national security information, and
provides in § 3.3(c) that the DCI may establish
special procedures for systematic review for
declassification of classified information pertaining
to intelligence activities (including special
activities), or intelligence sources or methods.

The responsibility of the DCI under § 102(d)(3) of the
National Security Act, as amended, 50 U.S.C.

§ 403(d)(3), to protect intelligence sources and
methods from unauthorized disclosure.

Section 6 of the CIA Act of 1949, as amended, 50
U.S.C. § 403g, which exempts the Agency from the
provisions of any law requiring the publication or
disclosure of the organization, functions, names,
official titles, salaries, or numbers of personnel
employed by the Agency.

The CIA Information Act of 1984, 50 U.S.C. § 431,
which exempts certain operational files from the
search and review provisions of the Freedom of
Information Act. :

c. RESPONSIBILITIES

ql)

(2)

THE DIRECTOR, CENTER FOR THE STUDY OF INTELLIGENCE,
has principal responsibility for the Historical Review
Program. Custody, control, and declassification
authority for all purposes of records selected and
received for review under the Program will be
transferred from the components to D/CSI. At the
beginning of each calendar year the Director, Center
for the Study of Intelligence will submit a report to
the DCI on the Program's work in the past year, and on
its plans for the year ahead.

In the Center for the Study of Intelligence the
History Staff and the Historical Review Group (HRG)
are responsible for carrying out the Program.

Sonate. 2


13-00000

(3)

(4)

qQ)

(a) The History Staff will both select groups of
records for systematic declassification review,
and locate and collect for review records on
events or topics of historical interest selected
with the approval of the DCI.

(b) The Historical Review Group will be responsible
for declassification review of records under the
Program in accordance with this Regulation and
additional guidance promulgated by the Director,
Center for the Study of Intelligence, with the
DCI's approval.

{c) In conducting this Program, the History Staff and
Historical Review Group will advise the
responsible components concerning the selection
of records to be reviewed under the Program and
will consult as necessary with the Agency
Archivist and responsible directorate and DCI
area Information Review Officers.

(da) To advise the Program on its policies and
procedures the Director, Center for the Study of
Intelligence, may from time to time convene the
Historical Review Panel, which will include the
Archivist of the United States, the Librarian of
Congress, and representatives of the historical
profession. :

The Agency Archivist will assist the Historical Review
Group in maintaining the integrity of all permanent
records (as determined by the Archivist of the United
States) received or created by the Agency, and in
preparing appropriate documentation to provide data
for an annual index of all Agency documents approved
for release under this Program or through other

means. The Agency Archivist will transfer records
declassified and released under the Program to the
National Archives.

The History Advisory Board will advise the History
Staff in its responsibilities for the Historical
Review Program.

CRITERIA FOR REVIEW PRIORITY

The History Staff, with the assistance of the Agency
Archivist and the relevant Information Management
Officers, will use archival data and listings that
describe the Agency's permanent records as well as


13-00000

(2)

3)

(4)

(5)

(6)

on-site research at the Agency Archives and Records
Center to identify and locate specific groups of
records for review under the Program.

The History Staff will determine the order in which
records are reviewed, using as primary criteria their
historical value, public interest in the subject
matter, and their potential yield of documents that
can be released. The Program will give special
attention to records originated by the DCI or his
principal subordinates and other senior Agency
officials, finished intelligence, and disseminated
intelligence reports. Priority for review will also
be given to file series requiring prompt reproduction
or other conservation action to ensure preservation of
the information contained in the records.

The History Staff will evaluate records in light. of
the contribution their declassification and release
can make to understanding the history of CIA and its
role in US intelligence, foreign policy, and
international developments. ‘
To determine historical value, the Chief, History
Staff, will consider the recommendations of the
Historical Review Panel, and of a wide range of
government, academic, and private historians.

The following records will be subject to systematic

declassification review:

(a) All permanent records held by the Agency that are
30 years old or older when reviewed, with the
exception of certain operational files designated
by the DCI under the provisions of the CIA
Information Act of 1984. Included in this review
will be files inherited from predecessor
organizations and formerly designated files that
have been removed from exempt status as a result
of the periodic review required by the CIA.
Information Act of 1984.

(b) All issues of Studies in Intelligence.

In addition to selecting records for systematic
declassification review, the History Staff will locate
and collect for HRG declassification review National
Intelligence Estimates on the former Soviet Union that
are ten years old or older when reviewed, and with the


13-00000

DCI's approval, records (including operational files
excluded from systematic review) on selected events or
topics of historical interest.

e. GUIDELINES FOR DECLASSIFICATION

q)

(2)

G3)

Executive Order 12356 requires that information be
classified only if its disclosure reasonably could be
expected to cause damage to the national security, and
that it shall be declassified or downgraded as soon as
national security considerations permit. The Order
further states that information that no longer
requires protection in the interest of national
security shall be declassifed and released unless
withholding is otherwise authorized by applicable law.

There shall be a presumption in favor of disclosure
except as provided in subparagraph (e)(4). Reviewers
conducting declassification review of information
under this Program who advocate the continued
classification of information will bear the burden of
identifying any damage its disclosure reasonably could
be expected to cause to the national security.
Information may remain classified only if the reviewer
can identify such damage and a clear connection
between disclosure and the projected damage. To show
such damage with respect to information 30 years old
or older, a reviewer must articulate how disclosure of
the information is likely to affect, in a significant
and adverse way, the US Government's current or future
ability to carry out its authorized activities.

Unless a showing of possible damage is made with
reasonable specificity, the information will be
declassified, even if the information concerns Agency
matters normally withheld from public release, such as:

(a) The fact of CIA presence in a specific country
abroad.

(b) The fact that certain covert action operations
were conducted.

{c) The existence of foreign government relationships.

(d) Agency organization, functions, names, official
titles, and salaries, and numbers of personnel
employed by the Agency.

(e) Information withheld solely on grounds of the
"mosaic" effect.

Factors to be considered in determining whether damage
to the national security reasonably could be expected
to be caused by disclosure include the effect of the


13-00000

(4)

(5)

(6)

q7)

(8)

passage of time on the sensitivity of the information,
any prior disclosures of the information, the link
between disclosure and possible harm, and past
experience with respect to disclosures of similar
information.

Under EO 12356 the unauthorized disclosure of foreign
government information, the identity of a confidential
foreign source, or intelligence sources or methods is
presumed to cause damage to the national security.
Such information, however, shall not be automatically
withheld under this Program.

In accordance with the third agency rule, the
Historical Review Group will coordinate its review
decisions as necessary with other US Government
agencies before taking final declassification action
and arranging to transfer records to the National
Archives.

A significant consideration in reviewing information
for declassification under this Program will be the
extent to which the information is already available
to the public. Information that CIA has officially
acknowledged (including inadvertent disclosures) will
not be eligible for continued classification. There
is a presumption that information that has appeared
publicly, including information that the CIA
Publications Review Board has approved for publication
even if not confirmed officially, will not damage the
national security unless the reviewer can show how
official confirmation could reasonably be expected to
cause additional damage to the national security.

The Historical Review Group will determine whether the
information under review warrants continued
protection, even if declassified, pursuant to
statutory or other requirements. Such information
(e.g. privacy data and information protected by
executive privilege) will be released, except when
prohibited by law, unless there is a showing that US
interests will be adversely affected by the
disclosure.

In no case will information be kept classified in
order to conceal violations of law, inefficiency, or
administrative error; to prevent embarrassment to a
person, organization, or agency; or to prevent or
delay the release of information that does not require
protection in the interest of national security.


13-00000

f.

PROCEDURES

q)

(2)

(3)

(4).

Individual documents will be released in full,
withheld in full, or released in part. When a
document cannot be released in full, an effort to
sanitize the document by deleting those portions that
may not be declassified, or that may not be made
public for other lawful reasons, will be undertaken.
This procedure will be followed only when it will not
slow the pace of the review unduly, will not obscure
the record's essential significance, and will not
distort the document's bibliographical identity, even
if details of internal dissemination are excised.
Documents that cannot be sanitized according to these
criteria will be withheld in full.

The Director, Center for the Study of Intelligence,
will review the determinations proposed by the
Historical Review Group, and if approved, make them
available to the deputy directors, heads of
independent offices, or their designees, whose
components originated or have a substantial interest
in the records. The responsible official will have
30 working days from the date of receipt of such
records in which to appeal in writing to the Director,
Center for the Study of Intelligence, any decision to
declassify and release information.

If the appeal is denied, the responsible: deputy
director or head of independent office will have

10 working days from the receipt of the decision of
the Director, Center for the Study of Intelligence, to
appeal that decision in writing to the Director of
Central Intelligence, whose decision will be final.

The Historical Review Group will maintain a record of
all final determinations.


13-00000

(5)

(6)

At the time of review, HRG will identify Agency
records that cannot be declassified. The HRG will
again review such records for declassification at a
date not more than 10 years later specified by the
Director, Center for the Study of Intelligence. That
date will be marked on the document.

This Regulation is intended to provide direction and
guidance for those engaged in declassification review
of records under the CIA Historical Review Program.
Nothing contained in this Regulation or in any
Procedures promulgated to implement this Regulation is
intended to confer, and does not confer, any
substantive or procedural right or privilege on any
person or organization.


13-00000

cK-m-21,F 7 QP -y
cil RY Oly
‘ 1 April 1992
Preparations for Handling the Kennedy Assassination Papers
Mar. H 3

I met in CIA/HS with Mary McAuliffe, Jerry Haines, and
Kevin Ruffner, at Mary's invitation. She gave me a copy of the
results of History Staff's Survey of the HSCA Collection--the
Summary, a Box List, and Finding Aids. These lists comprise
the total of CIA's holdings on the Kennedy Assassination, we
are told. Everything looks to be in order, and we can begin to
get ready for this high-volume, high-velocity, early-product
job. [A jarring note at the end of this session: Mary objects
to my suggestion that we consult DO and OS experts regarding
their concerns with these files. She says the whole point of
this is that we own these files now; we don't have to show them
anything.]

The job number is 80T01357A.

Boxes 1-34 are the DO collection.

Boxes 35-63 are collections located by OLC, IG, OGC, DS&T,
and OS (but most documents are DO, FBI, HSCA originated).

Box 64 is a collection of 72 reels of microfilm and
probably equates to 72 additional boxes, but with a large
likely overlap.

A separate collection of boxes (1-16) comprises the Lee
Harvey Oswald 201 File, and comes mostly from the FBI.

There are 8 "bulky" files from Mexico City Station which
also belong to the Oswald 201 collection.

There are 16 loose files, miscellaneous material from the
HSCA.

These boxes are physically located in IMS/DO, where the HS
historians did their survey. They are currently the property
of OCA, but will presumably be turned over officially to CSI.

History Staff (Mary) asked us to give first priority to
the Oswald 201 boxes.

I called Kathy Stricker right after the HS meeting to see
what DO's understanding of this is. She said that Russ Holmes
has been the custodian _for_over_a_decade (since 1963?
that he reports tol and her deputy,
(on green (44577) . is tied up
matters down town; sne-sugygestea-r should call
who knows the case in detail. *She also couns
into related files that are mentioned in the Oswald/Kennedy
files: the Ruby File, the Clay Shaw File, for openers. These
are not included in the total collection we've been told about.

30 March, 1:00 P.M.:

k

I held a meeting in HRS to pass on the word and copies of
the survey and box lists. We decided to get ready to get to
work right away on this, as soon as our new bosses give us the
word. Taking the two-year deadline in newspaper stories of the


Joint Resolution soon to be passed as a starting point, and DCI
Gates's desire to get this material out as soon as possible, we
figured that we would have to show some product within a month
or so and schedule the whole job to be delivered to the Board
of Five in segments of 8-9 boxes each per month, which should
ensure that the whole case would be in their hands in
manageable chunks and long before the deadline. This schedule
is far faster than we have been able to work on the HS/HC and
DCI Record File boxes, but we are assured that there are a lot
of duplication, a lot of non-CIA material and newspaper
clippings, and a lot of already released material, and we'll
have more people to work on the job. Presumably, we'll also be
working on other big jobs concurrently. s

I called to ask him to send us up the first
two boxes from the Oswa iles, so we can see what the job
will entail. I also invited him to give us a briefing on the
contents on 7 April at 10:00 A.M.

Late Monday afternoon, Kén McDonald came into Edgar's
office to object to our procedures and timetables. Mary, who
had been sitting. at Bill Zumwalt's desk reviewing material
ready to go to NARA, had carried our plans back to Ken. Edgar
called me in. Ken said this had to be a much faster job than
we were contemplating, that it had to get out right away, that
the Joint Resolution would not allow us this much time. I
mentioned that the Joint Resolution would not have the force of
law. Ken said that a new chief for the HRG had’ been chosen and

would be announced on 31 March. The his Program
moving. And would I kindly disinvite’
31 March 1992, 4:00 P.M.:

No announcement. Edgar says that Ken says Dave Gries
would be in Ames on 1 April to look over the 4th Floor
property. We'll probably hear then.

We received from OCA a copy of the Joint Resolution .as it
will be introduced in the House by Stokes this week. About
5:00 P.M., I got a call from Fred Wickham of IMS/DO. He asked
if I was the one who asked for two boxes of Oswald. I
explained what we intended to do. He said we would have to
check with OCA in any case; they are the custodians. I told
him we better hold off for a while on delivering those two
boxes, until we learn more about what happens to the JR and
what it will mean for how we do this job. *He told me that one
of the Oswald boxes consisted of old microfiche, which would be
hard to handle, but that DO had reconstituted this material in
hard copy, and they could give us this for the review.

[ern carver]


13-00000

08 April 1992

MEMORANDUM FOR:

SUBJECT > a. Ancillary Files
Lee Harvey Oswald, 201-289248

: wb. Sequestered Files
HSCA Collection

1. INTRODUCTION: In August 1976, Chief, CI Staff appointed the
undersigned as the Staff representative on a Task Force
established in response to DDCI‘s orders to the Deputy Inspector
General. The Task Force's purpose was to review Book V of the

“Church Keeps ars Report: The-lnvestigation of the

Intelligence Agencies, and to formulate comments , based upon an
in-depth study of information available in Agency files, on
statements made and questions raised in Book V. Since CI Staff,
at that time. held Lee Harvey Oswald's 201 file, the CI Staff
chief charged the undersigned with reviewing the file and
preparing papers on a series of topics drawn up by the Task Force
leader.

2. It quickly became evident to the undersigned that the
so-called 201 file on Lee Harvey Oswald was much more than what a
201 file should be. In addition to biographic information on
Oswald, the file included radio traffic between Headquarters and
the field on matters pertaining to Oswald, information on known
and possible contacts abroad and in the United States,
correspondence between the Agency and the Warren Committee, the
“Garrison Investigation", etc., as well as internal Warren
Commission documents containing Agency information. The file also
includes some 500 third-agency documents (primarily from the FBI
and the Department of State).

3. In order to get a handle on the welter of disparate material
in the Oswald file, the undersigned set up more than a few
individual files to hold photocopies of documents dealing with
such topics as Gilberto ALVARADO-Ugarte, Silvia DURAN, Waldemar
Boris KARA-PATNITSKY, Valeriy Vladimirovich KOSTIKOV, etc. (See
attached inventory - Tab A.) The undersigned considers these
ancillary files, which include 9 folders from the former Special
Investigation Group of CI Staff, as an appendix to Oswald's 201
file’. Its integrity should be maintained. [See paragraph 8.]

4. FIRST AND SECOND REVIEWS (October 1975 - c. February 1977):
For the first time, in October 1975, CI Staff reviewed Oswald's
201 file to ascertain which documents could be released to Bernard
Fensterwald who had requested all Agency documents on Lee Harvey


13-00000

Oswald and the assassination of President Kennedy. OGC, who was
handling Fentserwald's request, considered the first staff review
as inadequate and assigned a paralegal (assisted by a CI Staff
officer) to do a more complete second review. At the same time,
each Directorate was asked to forward to OGC any documents in
their files, which pertained to the Kennedy assassination. These
documents were included in the second review.

5. SEQUESTERED DOCUMENTS: By the time the Task Force had
completed its report in August 1977, the House of Representatives
passed a resolution setting up a Select Committee on
Assassinations. Later, the House decided to limit its
investigation of the assassinations of President Kennedy and Rev.
Martin Luther King, III. Members of the Task Force now became
involved in handling requests from the House Select Committee
(HSCA). The undersigned worked closely with HSCA staff members
and with the Agency's Principal Coordinator, HSCA. When the HSCA
finished its report on 30 June 1979 (its report did not come out
until later that year), the undersigned then moved to the Ames
Building to join a group reviewing OSS documents for eventual
transfer to the National Archives.

6. By late 1981, the Agency had prepared its material gathered
CA, for placement in sequestered storage in the Agency's
all Archives. The undersigned, though available, was not
asked to assist in this undertaking to ensure all pertinent DO
material had been included in the collection.

7. %Later, after returning to Headquarters, at IMS's request to
work on the many of FOIA requests for Agency documents on the
Kennedy Assassinations, the undersigned recalled Oswald's 201
including the ancillary files mentioned above.

8. While preparing an inventory of these latter files, before
returning them to IMS/Files, the undersigned discovered to his
dismay, that not all pertinent files had not been included in the
sequestered Collection in late 1981. Thirty-six of these
documents had been clearly prepared in response to specific HSCA
requests. The undersigned made a list of these documents to show
the History Staff‘s group reviewing the HSCA sequestered
collection. The documents include, for example

a. Response to HSCA Request 77-0076/4, n.d.
Subject: Tab C (Unsanitized), John ROSELLI
& Sam GIANCANA.

b. Response to HSCA Request 77-0084/1, 30 January
1978. Subject: Evaluation of Information in
the Manuscript of Federal Prisoner Antulio
RAMIREZ-Ortiz.


13-00000

c. Response to HSCA Request 78-1058/2, 09 March
1978. Subject: Items in Possession of Agency
before Opening Lee Harvey Oswald's 201.

d. Response to HSCA Request 78-2588/1, 15 August
1978. Subject: Comments regarding HTLINGUAL
Watchlist Cards.

e. Three volumes of (unsanitized) documents for
HSCA's use during Helms's appearance before the
Committee in executive hearing.

Volume I pages 0000151 - 0001873

Volume II pages 0001874 - 0002071

Volume III pages 0002104 - 0003369

Annex pages 0003520 - 0003571
(Copy 8)

f. etc. [See attached inventory, Tab B.]

9. The undersigned had prepared the remaining material [see
paragraph 3 above] to provide background information, along with
supporting documents, to the 1976-1977 Task Force. Since this
material was available at the time of the HSCA review of Agency
documents pertaining to the assassination of President Kennedy, it
was shown to HSCA staff members either voluntarily or in response
to a verbal request to the undersigned. Each file contained a
“signature sheet" for the staff member to sign, thereby
acknowledging he had seen it. This material, in some thirty-five
folders, includes

a. DENIED Documents from Lee Harvey Oswald's 201.
Contained in 5 vols., all reviewed.

RELEASED Documents from Lee Harvey Oswald's 201.
Four, volumes of 16 reviewed by HSCA.

b. Comments and supporting documentation
regarding Ronald Kessler's article “CIA Withheld
Details of Oswald's Call",
The Washington Post, 26 November 1976. [NB:
Shown to Richard Sprague, Chief Counsel (before
G. Robert Blakey), HSCA, 01 December 1976

c. CI/SIG (soft) File No. 568: HTLINGUAL material
and memoranda relating to Lee Harvey Oswald et
al (3 vols).

dad. Lee Harvey Oswald in Mexico City: Background
for Task Force Report, 30 August 1977


13-00000

e. Warren Commission: CIA memoranda addressed to
Warren Commission - 19 February to 29 October
1964. [See attached inventory, Tab C]

10. It should be emphasized at this point that most, if not all,
of the above files contain copies only of “original" documents
found elsewhere in official files to which the HSCA had access and
had reviewed.

11. PROPOSAL: In order to ensure that nothing is missing from, or
out of sequence in, the sequestered collection, the undersigned
proposes that he or an assistant be granted access to at least the
34 boxes concerning information belonging to the Directorate for
Operation so as to

a. Check the contents of each box against the
inventory sheet contained in each box and note
any discrepancies;

b. Make copies of the “original” documents listed
in the inventory under Tab C and place the
“original" documents in one or more of the 34
boxes, if there is room - for not all boxes are
stuffed full. If there is insufficient room to
accommodate all the “original” material, then
the left-over material will have to be placed in
extra boxes - not more than four

c. If documents or folders are put in one of the 34
boxes, the subject and the number of the folder
will be added to the existing inventory sheet;
the folder number will follow the highest folder
number on the inventory sheet.

Russell B. Holmes
Consultant


13-00000

ADMINISTRATIVE--INTERNAL USE ONLY

CSI 92 0201
13 April 1992

MEMORANDUM FOR:  { 7
: puty Director of Congressional Affairs

FROM: J. Kenneth McDonald
Chief, CIA History Staff

SUBJECT: Center for the Study of Intelligence Access to
All Records Relevant to House Select Committee
on Assassinations Investigation, 1976-1979

1. In his 21 February 1992 speech to the Oklahoma Press
Assocation the DCI announced that he was “transferring custody of
all documents CIA possesses relating to the assassination of
President Kennedy to the Historical Review Program,” which he
assigned to the Center for the Study of Intelligence (CSI) in the
same speech. David Gries, the new Director of CSI, has asked
CSI's Historical Review Group to begin work on declassifying the
collection of records that CIA holds as a result of the 1976-1979
investigations by the House Select Committee on Assassinations —
(HSCA).of President Kennedy's assassination.

2. Pursuant to the DCI'’s directions, we therefore request
approval for all members of CSI (which includes the Director and
his staff, the History Staff, and the Historical Review Group) to
have access to all records that CIA holds relevant to the HSCA
investigation. We understand that 64 boxes of material have been
specifically designated as related to this“investigation.

3. Upon receiving your approval for CSI access to these
records, the Director, CSI; would like the components noted below
to transfer custody of the following 64 boxes of material related
to the HSCA investigation to CSI, when requested by the Chief,
Historical Review Group, CSI:

Box Nos. 1-34 & 64 Directorate of Operations
Box Nos. 35-36 Inspector General
Box Nos. 37-38 Office of the General Counsel
Box No. 39 Directorate of Science and
. Technology
Box Nos. 40-48 Office of Security
Box Nos. 49-63 Office of Congressional Affairs

ADMINISTRATIVE--INTERNAL USE ONLY


13-00000
ADMINISTRATIVE--INTERNAL USE ONLY

SUBJECT: Center for the Study of Intelligence Access to All
Records Relevant to House Select Committee on
Assassinations Investigation, 1976-1979

4. We understand that the DO's Information Management Staff
holds the 35 DO-originated boxes, and that the 29 other boxes are
held together at the Agency Records Center.

¢: Kot,

J. Kenneth McDonald

ec: D/CST
C/HRG/CSI
APPROVED:
—
| VEE
Deputy Director of Congressional Affairs Date :

HK Sar OLAS ep terre.

ADMINISTRATIVE--INTERNAL USE ONLY


13-00000 —

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY

OCA 1180-92
2 LAPR 1992

MEMORANDUM FOR: J. Kenneth McDonald
Chief, CIA History Staff

FROM:

Deputy Director of Congressional Affairs
SUBJECT: Request for Access to HSCA Records
REFERENCE: Your Memorandum dtd 13 April 1992;

Same Subject (CSI 92-0201)

1. In the reference, you requested approval for all
members of CSI to have access to all records that CIA holds
relevant to the HSCA investigation into President Kennedy's
assassination. Upon receiving this approval, CSI would
request affected components to transfer custody of the 64 +
boxes of material in question to CSI.

2. Today, I called Michael O'Neil, Special Assistant
to the Speaker of the House of Representatives: Mr. O'Neil
serves as the focal point for questions arising with respect
to the segregated HSCA collection. I informed Mr. O'Neil of
your request, noted that the DCI had promised an expeditious
review of these documents, and requested his concurrence to
proceed with the transfer of custody. Initially, Mr. O'Neil
wondered whether this action would frustrate the purposes of
the Joint Resolution currently being considered by the
Congress. Specifically, since the documents would be
provided to a Review Board pursuant to the resolution, would
transfer at this time to the CSI hinder that purpose? I
told Mr. O'Neil that if the Joint Resolution passed in its
current form, we would instruct the CSI to transfer the
holdings to the Board. If the Joint Resolution did not
pass, we would have a head start on reviewing the documents.

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY


13-00000

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY

SUBJECT: Request for Access to HSCA Records

3. 2 then informed Mr. O'Neil that the new historical
review group would have at least fifteen officers and that
this group would likely review the material. Mr. O'Neil
then stated that he concurred in the transfer of custody and
in the request for access by CSI personnel.

4. Based on this conversation, I have signed the
reference indicating my approval of your request. During
the course of your review, you should continue to coordinate
closely with Litigation Division, OGC, and this Office to
Cueuee that decisions to release are consistent with
tigation and other requirements.

4, Please call me on x35467/ Af I_may be of any further
assistance. Tr ————= _
5) [7

cc: C/DO/IMS
C/LD/OGC

ORIG: po/ocay___pab:x35467/ (21 Apr ,92)

Distribution:
Original Addressee
C/DO/IMS
C/LD/OGC
D/OCA
DD/LEG
OCA Record
(EPM] Chrono

Pet ee et

2

' ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY


13-00000

WS asd

TOTAL:

CIA
2 Nov
3 Nov
18 Nov

9 Dec_

28 Sep
9 Oct
10 Oct
10 Oct
15 Oct
16 Oct
24 Oct

AL Oct

9 Nov.
v9 Nov

23 Oct
: an
: v-13 Apr
26 May
wi Jul
V2 Oct

EBL
5 May
13 Jul
*.7 Sep
.10 Sep
25 Oct
7 Nov
8 Nov

Navy

26 Apr

vo
7 Dec 61

Press
31 Oct
16 Nov
26 Nov
9 Jun

61" Om

Number of
Documents

34

il
59”
60° We WKS
60" WG WE
60M...
61
63
6365
63
63.

oa
63
63 /

WE

Su 1304

59-3 Mey
59 Whe To
60M WARE

a elu ed
61 Ant
617 WE

12
- 3
6i- D "3

2.34
13Se
Ue

S06
ae

Gor by wrne ( os.

G1“ we

62- wife i
63- LAG wag .
630 2G, wing?

63” “WE
634 YG WE

62 “WAKE

4
59

59v

59

62

CIA SPECIAL COLLECTIONS
. REEEASPAN FULL

Count of Pages in the Pre-Assassination Oswald2@@{}File Which
Was Delivered to NARA on ll May 1992:

VIG Yor! Sy

BPRHONE EHO

DWN ENE EWE

e
ONO

BREE

Number of
Pages
“124

XARE LL
SMAR. EY
MEME CRY,

LAR eTED
— coly
MENG MOTE
LL SEP A9-

7 practbe uff
ebro parE TEC T

NOTE 422 re Wily 20/97

MEMO BITAN EG VIE

2h ee

216 PL

gn ve Ct
LSC AEF Am

7 wéw

——_

4 !

|


13-00000

Central Intelligence Agency
Office of General Counsel
Washington, D.C. 20505

Date: 2 August 1993

To: | John Pereira

Organization: |C/HRG
Phone: | 30373 :

(703) 243-8343

From: |[Robert J. Eatinger, Jr.
Organization: | Litigation Division
(703) 874-3105
(703) 874-3208

Number of Pages (including Cover) 2

Comments: FYI, copy of Records Retirement Request of
22 August 1980 for the segregated collection. Note that it
states: "The filmed portion of this collection is being retired
separately." If I have more information on this in the Allen
litigation file, I'll let you know.


AUG @2 93 11+>3HN

For 58 rence Service on Recess Tre
Storage Complete Form 490 and Refer 13
Number.

70 wchiae iy ‘copies will be rctumed to thaloripioe!
ing pie Additionot copies moy Te pyepoied'ox indicated by your RMO. 1

FROM: cecomtine POU ONY BRIEESD

Opacy eee CGffice-eftbepislative
| Records Center’ Counsel
] OEH

APPLICATION IS MADE FOR RETIREMENT OF THE RECORDS DESCRIBED BELOW
DESEMIPTION OF FILE SEMIESIN DETAIL. DO NG~ CITE RECORDS CONTROL SCHEDULE DESCRIPTION. UTE FORM NO. 4054 10D0) OF
ag3ea, 7

: Consists of all. substantive p paper dociments and other materials created.or reviewed |

izs the result of inquiries made rae of the CIA by the House Select Committee on

| Assassinations (HSCA) during its investigations into the deaths of President Kermedy'

{and Marzin Luther King. The collection includes all CIA files requested for review,

- | documents generated by the HSCA as the result of its reviews, correspondence

2 } exchanged between the CIA and the HSCA, and pertinent supporting documentation. |
» This isan Agency =wids deposit. The filmed portion. of this collection is being . -.-

‘ xetired separately. ‘- i

4
7
i
!
‘

E_PECORDS MANAGEMENT OFFICER) _

ESTP Oh COX LABEL (FL aPAR, ty
cage oF tae Ti ie sea ee SS

"PART Hero! s chupLeveD B'

ehaneaanennay OR AE ae apne

ie) & the

Jourosirion 6 OF THE Aiconoe bescmees wen o

Jaymonzarond

DESTROYED

SEG_REMARKS On GAC

Ge ee ga Ya a ep

PART lit 8 (To BE CONPLETED BY ARCHIVES) - | cee
‘Apeney Archives)

<a] senavune (ens

j ron 140 mrevious corrioms pesovers

Exhibit #3


13-00000

* , UNCLASSIFIED
27 June 1994
MEMORANDUM FOR: DA
i@ DA
ame [>
‘SUBJECT: JFK Database Extract for NARA
REFERENCE:

On June 15, we mat with Mike Getsey and Bill Graver of NARA to discuss impravements to the JFK database extract . The following

issues were discussed and will require action.
£

eA GR wil eed to tk itt Stove Tiley GU} 13-66zpPboncerning the NARA requirement that restricted fields be released to them. ~ pobiag >
This could resutt in a modification to the application : vee Qe
Qe Vine should aio discuss with Stove Tiley the now exemgtign codes and d ine what effect they will have on the collection, This 2°
could resuft in a modification to the application. ree = .

ACR shoutd print 10 aids on whit paper.
: 3

yr’ NARA would like.us to provide ar least one keywerd{subject) per document and any mnie ot eis jcument. NARA will be
LE expanding thei koyword Gel to 250 characters Both of these items require a modification to the application. (mu \cles 49 te!
eval :
Xs NARA has preliminary plans to expand the title field from 60 characters to 80 characters; they do nat want the field truncated. (aso ? )
However, the title will stil be truncated unless HRG modifies their data to 80 character. This will tequira 2 modification te the < ie

application.

i Evade, off boc & NARA ry \—
Qe AEs, Nah wats th date ine APS ou theta oe application, § —~ COWRA
2777. NARA would ea the Opening Cera to say ate criteria gx opposed tothe cugent canned statement. This wil req a
YSZ nin th pater a en (ore \ = ic ak

4 Ai tia til etn ie This will requise a modification to the
NARA will be faxing their new formats and examples to us this week. | will contact you to schedule a meeting to review the above
issues. Thank you and | can be reached on 36417(S}.

ce: j@ DA

poo € Shee }—

UNCLASSIFIED



13-00000

28 July 1994

Results of 25 July meeting with Mike Getsey and Steve Tilley
ve JFK database extract.

The following item numbers are keyed to

memo of 27 June, same subject.

#1. “restricted data" -- NARA will accept disk with
restricted data withheld. Issues will be re-visited after a
decision on disposition of CIA's classified (retention) JFK
collection. i

#2. Exemption Codes -- The Agency is not required to use
the additional exemption codes or add them to its system,
however, they must be accounted for in the extract disk.
Getsey suggested that this could be done by the extract
program. Question: is it possible to add a couple of codes
without a major programming problem?

#3. White paper for. Iden Aids - yes.

#4. Keywords -- NARA has no problem with the length of
CIA's 15 character field for keywords, however, with the
current format NARA can only search on the first keyword.
Each keyword needs to be a separate entity on the extract
disk.

#5. Title Field -- NARA is expanding the title field’ to cut
down on the number of truncated titles. Does not effect HRG
system which is already 250 characters.

#6. . "Identification Number" -- Move date/time ID number to
Comment Section along with box numbers and folder
information (#8).

#7. "Open Criteria" -- Field can be blank.. Use only for
special restrictions on documents; unlikely that CIA will
have documents that require using this field. Need to
delete canned statement.


i
MEMORANDUM

September 16, 1997
To: Review Bo

Subject: Proposed ARRB Timetab!

I. Background

The CIA Team has developed a preliminary timetable that we hope will provide a
reasonable framework for completing our review of CIA’s assassination records by
August 1, 1998.1 We are creating this timetable for three purposes:

First, to establish.our own working target dates to measure Review Board progress
against the mandatory deadline established by the JFK Act.

; Second, to provide CIA with our best assessment of the order and scope of our review
so that it can make its own intemal judgments on the proper allocation of its resources.
We provided CIA prior drafts of this memo and solicited its specific advice and
suggestions for better ways to accomplish our goals. [We have not asked CIA to
“agree” to these deadlines, but we have encouraged it to provide alternative
suggestions on how best to meet the August 1 deadline.] :

Third, to solicit the Review Board’s advice regarding “enforcement” of these (or other)
targets, Although we surely hope that both the ARRB staff and CIA will be able to meet
the targets, and although we certainly plan to make all reasonable accommodations for
problems that no doubt will arise, we nevertheless anticipate that it is possible that CIA
might not be able to keep to these timetables. Thus, we anticipate that there may well
be times when blocks of records scheduled for Board review will not have been fully
processed'by CIA. It is our judgment that, in keeping with our commitment to
Congress and to the goals of the JFK Act, we may need to have the Board act on groups
of records for which CIA has not completed its initial review. At the risk of over-
repetition, the ARRB staff seeks to be as reasonable and accommodating as it can on
timetables, provided that any proposed changes are consistent with our obligation to
complete the task. We realize that this review may have resource-allocation

renremenrew

‘By establishing this target date, we will provide ourselves with a two-month
cushion to handle possible appeals and miscellaneous issues that doubtless will arise.


13-00000

consequences for CIA and we expect to refine this timetable both to minimize

tesource impact and to allow us and the CLA to proceed most efficiently with:
review. We also take very seriously our commitment to Congress to. complete’
on schedule. Is the Board prepared to make decisions ou tecosds ECIA ha sot
som he ts Dente ret Cotte idee Gee onst ec

Il. Issues applying to all CIA record groups

Records to be opened-in-full
RTC pe ee ee -
is prepared to open in full without Board action. Although there is a :
benefit in promptly forwarding such records to NARA, it is less expensive
for CIA to process these records during the summer months.
Accordingly, we are prepared to agree with CIA that it may delay. :
processing such records, peel ron are ale ettoe

* records will be completed by August 30, 1998.

Duplicates
CIA will continue to identify duplicates and may process them after all
other documents have been reviewed and transferred to NARA. If the
ARRB is shown that any given record is a duplicate, CIA need not
complete the processing before September 80, 1998.

IIL CIA Record Groups

A. Oswald 201 File (17 boxes)
- current status:
review completed (vith fw minor septs)

B. CIA Sequestered Collection ©

1 “The 63 boxes”
~ current status:
The ARRB staff has completed a survey of the 63 boxes (on the
folder level) and has assigned each folder a relevance priority ona
1 to 4 scale. CIA has completed its declassification review of
roughly 66% of the priority 1 folders.

The ARRB Staff has completed its own review of approximately
50% of the priority 1 records and those records havebeen(or
shortly will) be voted on by the Board. :


~ target dates:
Completion of final review “of 63 boxes — 31, 1998.

- ime line: i S,
9/30/97 box 40 (priority 1) ; ae
10/31/97 box 48 (priority 1)

11/30/97 box 56 (priority 1)

12/31/97 box 63 (priority 1)

1/31/98 — all priority 2,3 and 4

2. HSCA Staff notes (originally interfiled in the 63 boxes)
~ status:
Record Identification Forms prepared for all documents. CLA
review is 80% complete. ARRB staff completes its review shortly
after receiving records froin CIA.

~ target dates:
Complete Board voting by November 18, 1997. -- -
3. Microfilm (72 boxes)
- current status:
CIA identified approximately 33% of these records as NBR. ARRB
. staff has reviewed all CLA NBR designations, and has identified
additional records that should be reviewed by the Board.

The ARRB Staff will discuss with the CIA the preparation of Record
Identification Forms (RIFs or “IDEN aids” in CIA terminology) and:
develop a plan that will best facilitate review?

~ target dates: ‘
CIA begins review by November 1, 1997 and completes review by
July 1, 1998.

Complete Board determinations by July 31, 198.

*The ARRB staff has.no objection to the records being identified entirely on the
folder level provided that all records in the folder are open-in-full. If there are records
in which the CIA is requesting redactions, those records must be identified
individually. The remainder of open-in-full records may still be identified with one RIF
as being the contents of the same folder.

|
|



- tentative time line:
: 11/30/97 . eeboxes: 16
12/31/97 * boxes 7-13' *
- 1/31/98 . boxes 1419
2/28/98 boxes 20-25
3/31/98 boxes 26-31 & 44-45.
oe (Sone 2-49 conan LHO'0 201 fle wi wl
be treated as a special case.)
4/30/98 ~boxes46-51.-°
- 5/31/98 —_ boxes 52-62
~ 6/30/98 — boxes 63-72

i
;
4
i
'

4. Microfilm copy of Oswald 201 (approximately 12 boxes) ae
- issue: a i
The vast majority (if tot all) Oswald Microfilm records are
duplicates of records the Board has already reviewed under the JFK
Act. To the extent that the records previously have been reviewed, i
there is little value in re-reviewing the records. The ARRB staff will a
survey the Microfilm 201 in an effort to identify any additional .
records that have not already been acted upon by the Board. All -
; records not previously acted upon bythe Board willbeso .-
, owe "designated, a RIF will be prepared, and they will be sent for Board
. action. The remaining Microfilm 201 will be transferred to the JFK
Collection at NARA and opened in full in 2017.

eee «status: Se sags
: ee ee ee
7 a ee la

c “Working Files” fideeing "2 Russ Holmes” papers,
~ status:
No Record Identification Forms have been prepared. ARRB staff
has conducted a general survey.

~ target dates:
Work to commence by CIA on October 1, 1997. CIA should

prepare Record Identification Forms for all records by January 1,
1998, Completion of review and Board determinations by March
31, 1998.


~ strategy:

-strategy:

The “working files” is a group of records that was assembled ‘at :
CIA by Russ Holmes.. Although he was not asked formally by

to create this separate records group, he did so in oider to facilitate :

his work and, perhaps, to satisfy his own curiosity. The group _
. contains many original records (copies of some of which are

already in the collection) and it includes some records of which we = ef
are aware of no other copies. It is the best-organized collection of - «;

assassination records held by CIA. Its value as a reference tool is
gteatest as a collection. Therefore, though the file contains many
duplicates of records found in the JFK collection, the ARRB staff
recommends that it be preserved as a single group. Duplicates and
open-in-full documents should be treated in the same manner as
they are in the rest of the JFK Collection. As.with the microfilm
from the Sequestered Collection, the ARRB staff has no objection to
the records being identified on the folder level provided that all

records in the folder are open-in-full. If there are records in which

CIA is requesting redactions, those records must be identified
individually. The remainder of open in full records may still be
identified with one RIF as being the contents of the same folder.

D. Additional Records
~ status:

Research, requests, and negotiations continue to identify and
include additional CIA records for the JFK collection.

Oswald Office of Security File. As a result of an ARRB staff

for additional information and records, CIA located portions of a _
previously undisclosed Office of Security fileon Lee Harvey -
Oswald. This seven-volume file, of which six parts have been
located, contains two volumes of press clippings, third agency
material on Oswald, a copy of Oswald’s address book, and Marina
Oswald’s INS file. In the upcoming months CIA will begin to
review and process these materials.

- time line:

Completion by July 31, 1998.

Continue current efforts.

scope epmaemranensan tote asta ATE


E. Referrals

1. HSCA referrals (Numbered files, Security Classified Testimany,

etc.)
+ status:

most of these records have been reviewed.. The database suggests

that a percentage of them has slipped through the cracke
~ target date:

~ strategy:
Continue to clarify the status of records. Review any remaining

2 Other referrals (FBI, Church Committee, LBY Lib ary, JEK Library, etc.)
~ status and strategy: my

Records will be coordinated and reviewed on a case by case basis,

| TGeA..\cia\timetablwpd
4207 * 7

Complete Congressional records to be reviewed by March 31,1998,

i
:
i


13-00000

SECRET

3 October 1997

NOTE FOR: Rich Warshaw
Chief, ADD

SUBJECT: HRG Topics for “Watch List”

Per your request, here are descriptions of our current,
major declassification projects for use in your “Watch
List.” As these are first cuts, we may well revise them at
some point. Following are the projects described:

JFK Assassination (Foiq + EO)
Bay of Pigs

Office of DCI Records
Guatemala Covert Action (1954)
DI Soviet Analysis

Soviet NIEs (brochure)

If further information is needed, please contact Karen
Galuska (x31816), or. the action officer noted at the end of

each project description.

John Pereira
Chief/HRG

Attachments
cc: Lee Strickland, OIM

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY WHEN
SEPARATED FROM ATTACHMENTS
cu By i1637_/
CL REASON 1.5 (c)
DECL ON Xl
DRV FR: LOC 3-82
SECRET


13-00000

SECRET FOIA
8 October 1997
JFK Records Review Project

(U) The following is intended as a guide for those people
whose work requires them to deal with requests for, and
decisions concerning, Agency documents and materials that
may already have been reviewed and released to the National
Archives (in full or in part), pursuant to the President
John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of
1992. Some of the records within the Agency's JFK
collection are assassination specific, others are ancillary.
They deal with individuals and events not directly linked
with Oswald or the assassination;!but they are thought to
have had a relationship to the assassination or
investigation into the assassination.

I. The Agency's JFK Collection.

(u) The Agency's JFK records collection is made up
primarily of records pulled together for the Warren
Commission and House Select Committee on Assassinations
(HSCA). There were eighty-one (81) Records Center-sized

-boxes in the original collection. Of these, the first

seventeen (17) made up the Oswald 201 file. The next sixty-
four (64) are referred'to as the “JFK files” or sequestered
collection’ ard break down as follows: thirty-four (34) boxes
of DO materials; nine (9) boxes of Office of Security files;
fifteen (15) boxes of OLC materials; two (2) boxes each of
oGc and IG materials; and one (1) box of DDS&T documents.
HSCA originated material, including notes by HSCA staff
members, are found throughout the collection. Box 64
contains seventy two (72) reels of microfilm.

(U) The microfilm contains copies of complete files to
which the HSCA had access during its investigation. In
addition to the Oswald 201 file (12 reels), the microfilm
includes: 201 files. on Cubans, Americans, and Soviets linked
to Oswald, the JFK assassination or the various
investigations (approximately 26 reels)and the Cuban
Revolutionary Council and other exile group activities
(approximately 13 reels); the personnel files of CIA staff
employees (approximately 5 reels); and operational files on
organizations, projects, and other subjects of interest to
the HSCA investigation (approximately 16 reels).

fae
CL BY: (611637
CL REASON: 1.5 (c)
DECL ON: XL

DRV FRM: LOC 3-82

SECRET


13-00000

SECRET

(U) We continue to identify other collections of documents
that properly belong within the JFK collection. These
include: The Oswald Security File; Agency working files
generated by JFK assassination investigations and requests;
and CIA documents found by other agencies and Presidential
Libraries and referred to CIA for review under the JFK Act.

II. The Time Frame of JFK Assassination Records.

(U) In general, the time frame of JFK records commences
when Oswald arrived at the US air base (the U-2) at Atsugi,
Japan, in December 1957 and continues through the end of the
Garrison investigation in 1968. Note, however, for
information which is clearly related to the story of the JFK
assassination or its investigations, there is no time frame
iimitation. Any document or request that deals with the
assassination, Lee Harvey Oswald, or the various conspiracy
theories should be referred to the HRG/JFK review project.

III. Key Topics, Etc.

(U) Certain individuals, organizations, places,
projects, and subjects are central to the Oswald/JFK story

._and.the ensuing investigations, which causes a number of

documents with no mention of Oswald or the assassination to
fall within the purview of the JFK Act. Clearly, it is not
possible to list every category of document which may have
been reviewed and released under the JFK Assassination .
Records Act. The following categories contain examples of
information that are considered to be within the JFK
review. ff

(U) A. JFK Assassination Investigations:

-- Warren Commission, 1963-64

James Garrison, New Orleans DA, 1966-68

Rockefeller Commission, * 1975;

Church Committee (Senate),* 1975-76

-- House Select Committee on Assassinations (HSCA),
1976-79 :

* JFK Assassination, anti-Castro plots and CIA anti-
Cuban operations only.

B. Key subjects

(S) -- Moscow Station, Mexico City Station, JMWAVE Station,
and CIA stations in those cities through which
Oswald passed on his way to and from the Soviet
Union, as they related to Oswald's activities or to
possible conspiracies.

SECRET


13-00000

SECRET

(AIUO)-- CIA anti-Cuban operations 1960-64 (Mongoose, etc.)
if they involve JFK figures (see comment on
Meagher's “index” below); most US anti-Castro
activities in 1963 are considered relevant.

(U) -- Cuban exile anti-Castro activities, leaders and
organizations, 1960-64, if they involve JFK figures.
-- Castro assassination activities (plans and
attempts); no limit on time frame.
-- Mafia, if related to Castro, JFK, or New Orleans
during Oswald time frames (see attached chronology).

(AIUO) C. Key figures
(the following individuals are considered JFK
assassination-related, unless the context is clearly
unrelated or outside the appropriate time period)

-- AMMUG, Cuban defector;

Maurice Bishop, alleged to exist (any reference) ;

-- Silvia Duran, employee in Cuban Embassy, Mexico
City;

-- Richard Gibson and the Free Cuba Committee;

-- Howard Hunt, CIA employee;

-- Priscilla MacMillan Johnson, journalist;

Valeriy Kostikov, KGB officer in Mexico city;

Mr. & Mrs. George de Mohrenschildt (all documents)

-- Yuri Nosenko and the dispute over his bona fides;

--. Michael and Ruth Paine, Dallas friends of Oswalds;

David Phillips, CIA employee;

Richard Snyder, State Department Officer.

-- Winston Scott, COS Mexico City

For a more comprehensive list of subjects and individuals
related to the JFK assassination, reviewers should consult
Sylvia Meagher's Master Index to the JFK Assassination
Investigations, The Scarecrow Press, 1980.

(U) Action Officer: Barry Harrelson (31825)

Attachment: Oswald Chronology

SECRET


13-00000

SECRET

{U) Attachment:

Oswald Chronology, ‘1956-1963

--Joins Marines 10/26/56

-Arrives Atsugi (U2 Base) ae 09/12/57
~-Returns to US 11/02/58
--Hardship discharge 09/11/59

--Departs New Orleans for Moscow 09/20/59
via LeHavre, London, Helsinki

--Arrives Moscow 10/16/59

--Resides in Minsk 01/07/60 - 05/22/62
--Departs Moscow via train 06/02/62

--Departs Rotterdam via ship 06/04/62

--Arrives New York 06/13/62

--+Fort Worth/Dallas, Texas 06/14/62 = 04/63
~-New Orleans 04/63 - 09/63
--Mexico City 09/25/63 - 10/03/63
--Dallas 10/3/63 - 11/24/63

SECRET


13-00000
SECRET Executive Order

8 October 1997
JFK Records Review Project

{U) The following is intended as a guide for those
people whose work requires them to review Agency documents
and materials that may be subject to the President John F.
Kennedy Assassination Records ‘Collection Act of 1992.

Some of the records within the, Agency's JFK collection are
assassination specific, others are ancillary. They deal
with individuals and events not directly linked with Oswald
or the assassination; but they are thought to have had a
relationship to the assassination,or investigation into the
assassination. :

I. The Agency's JFK Collection.

(U) The Agency's JFK records collection is made up
primarily of records pulled together for the Warren
Commission and House Select Committee on Assassinations
(HSCA). There were eighty-one (81) Records Center-sized
boxes in the original collection. Of these, the first
seventeen (17) made up the Oswald 201 file. . The next sixty-
four (64) are referred to as the “JFK files” or sequestered
collection and: break down as follows: thirty-four (34) boxes
of DO materials; nine (9) boxes of Office of Security files;
fifteen (15) boxes of OLC materials; two (2) boxes each of
OGC and IG materials; and.one (1) box of DDS&T documents.
HSCA originated material, including notes by HSCA staff
members, are found throughout the collection. .Box 64
contains seventy two (72) reels of microfilm.

(U) The microfilm contains copies of complete files to
which the HSCA had access during its investigation. In
addition to the Oswald 201 file (12 reels), the microfilm
includes: 201 files on Cubans, Americans, and Soviets linked
to Oswald, the JFK assassination or the various
investigations (approximately 26 reels)and the Cuban
Revolutionary Council and other exile group activities
(approximately 13 reels); the personnel files of CIA staff
employees (approximately 5 reels); and operational files on
organizations, projects, and other subjects of interest to
the HSCA investigation (approximately 16 reels).

cL By: 611637!
CL REASON: ~:175 (c)
DECL ON: x1

DRV FRM: LOC 3-82

SECRET



13-00000

SECRET

(U) We continue to identify other collections of documents
that properly belong within the JFK collection. These
include: The Oswald Security File; Agency working files
generated by JFK assassination investigations and requests;
and CIA documents found by other agencies and Presidential
Libraries and referred to CIA for review under the JFK Act.

II. The Time Frame of JFK Assassination Records.

(U) In general, the time frame of JFK records commences
when Oswald arrived at the US air base (the U-2) at Atsugi,
Japan, in December 1957 and continues through the end of the
Garrison investigation in 1968. Note, however, for
information which is clearly related to the acory: of the a
assassination or its investigations, there

limitation. Any document or request that deals with the
assassination, Lee Harvey Oswald, or the various conspiracy
theories should be referred to the HRG/JFK review project.

III. Key Topics, Etc.

(u) Certain individuals, organizations, places,
projects, and subjects are central to the Oswald/JFK story
and the ensuing investigations, which causes a number of
documents with no mention of. Oswald or the assassination to
fall within the purview of the JFK Act. Clearly, it is not
possible to list every category of document which may have
been reviewed and released under the JFK Assassination
Records Act. The following categories contain examples. of
information that are considered to be within the JFK
review.

(U) A. JFK Assassination Investigations:

-- Warren Commission, 1963-64

-- James Garrison, New Orleans DA, 1966-68

-- Rockefeller Commission,* 1975;

-- Church Committee (Senate),* 1975-76

-- House Select Committee on Assassinations (HSCA),
1976-79

* JFK Assassination, anti-Castro plots and CIA anti-
Cuban operations only.

B. Key subjects

(S) -- Moscow Station, Mexico City Station, JMWAVE Station,
and CIA stations in those cities through which
Oswald passed on his way to and from the Soviet
Union, as they related to Oswald's activities or to
possible conspiracies.

SECRET.


13-00000

SECRET

(AIUO)-- CIA anti-Cuban operations 1960-64 (Mongoose, etc.)
if they involve JFK figures (see comment on
Meagher's “index” below); most US anti-Castro
activities in 1963 are considered relevant.

(U) -- Cuban exile anti-Castro activities, leaders and
organizations, 1960-64, if they involve JFK figures.
-- Castro assassination activities (plans and
attempts); no limit on time frame.
-- Mafia, if related to Castro, JFK, or New Orleans
during Oswald time frames (see attached chronology) .

(AIUO)C. Key figures :
(the following individuals are considered JFK
assassination-related, unless the context is clearly
unrelated or outside the appropriate time period)

-- AMMUG, Cuban defector;

-- Maurice Bishop, alleged to exist (any reference) ;

-- Silvia Duran, employee in Cuban Embassy, Mexico
City;

>- Richard Gibson and the Free Cuba Committee;

~- Howard Hunt, CIA employee;

-- Priscilla MacMillan Johnson, journalist;

-- Valeriy Kostikov, KGB officer in Mexico city;

-- Mr. & Mrs. George de Mohrenschildt (all documents)

~-- Yuri Nosenko and the dispute over his. bona fides;

-- Michael and Ruth Paine, Dallas friends of Oswalds;

-- David Phillips, CIA employee;

-- Richard Snyder, State Department Officer.

-- Winston Scott, COS Mexico City

For a more comprehensive list of subjects and jndividuals
related to the JFK assassination, reviewers should consult
Sylvia Meagher's Master Index to the JFK Assassination

Investigations, The Scarecrow Press, 1980.

(U) Action Officer: Barry Harrelson (31825)

Attachment: Oswald Chronology

SECRET



13-00000

(U) Attachment :

SECRET

Oswald Chronology, '1956-1963

--Joins Marines

10/26/56

--Arrives Atsugi (U2 Base) Japan 09/12/57

--Returns to US
--Hardship discharge

i

11/02/58
09/11/59

--Departs New Orleans for Moscow 09/20/59
via LeHavre, London, Helsinki

--Arrives Moscow
--Resides in Minsk

--Departs Moscow via train
--Departs Rotterdam via ship

--Arrives New York

--Fort Worth/Dallas, Texas

--New Orleans
--Mexico City
--Dallas

SECRET

10/16/59

01/07/60 - 05/22/62

06/02/62
06/04/62
06/13/62
06/14/62
04/63
09/25/63
10/3/63

04/63
09/63
10/03/63
11/24/63


13-00000
ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICIAL USE ONLY

October 1997
Bay of Pigs Declassification Project

Approximately 30,000 pages of records from DO, DI, DCI, DA,
and DDS&T files, plus documents from outside CIA (mainly
State, NSC, DOD). ‘

Scope: To “tell the story” of: the paramilitary invasion at
the Bay of Pigs, the HRG collection traces the genesis of
the decision to conduct a covert action against Castro,
describes the planning that went into the various phases of
the covert action program, and lays out the post-invasion
inquiries into the failure of the operation.

Status: As of this date, approximately 1/3 of the
collection has been reviewed and is ready for release. A
selection of documents was provided to OGC in August 1997 in
response to a special search for information pertaining to
the crash landing of two Cuban exile pilots in Nicaragua.
HRG expects to finish reviewing the remainder of the records
in early 1998. All documents will be available for MORI
processing following their release, although HRG does not
have the staff to do the physical scanning and indexing.

Key parts of the record collection include:

e intelligence analysis of events in Cuba 1958-61

e records of meetings between CIA senior officials and
counterparts in other agencies at which Cuban
developments and/or the covert action plans were
discussed

e internal planning documents (virtually all from DO files)
detailing propaganda ops, sabotage attempts, coordination
with Cuban exile groups in Miami, and support for
underground opposition in Cuba

e cable traffic during the Bay of Pigs invasion

e training records of the Cuban-led 2506 Brigade that
conducted the Bay of Pigs invasion

e Agency records turned over to the Taylor Committee
appointed by Pres. Kennedy to investigate the failed
invasion

ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICIAL USE ONLY
1


13-00000

ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICIAL USE ONLY

e the internal IG report into the Bay of Pigs operation and
the DDP response

e IG interviews with Agency employees involved in the
covert action

e “official” histories prepared in CIA during the 1970s

Action Officer: eee See Ee EE 281818) (secure)

g:\hrg\hrgiperd.doc :

ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICIAL USE ONLY
2


13-00000

ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICIAL USE ONLY

October 1997
Declassification of DCI/DDCI files 1946-61

HRG selected pertinent job series from OPI 10 to review box-
by-box, page-by-page. These boxes contain a variety of
records, including:

'

e appointment calendars and daily logs

e alpha files of DCI correspondence with parties outside
CIA
7 i
e administrative traffic collected by the DCI/DDCI in their
capacities as heads of CIA

e records of Community meetings and boards, such as the
Intelligence Advisory Board/Committee and USCIB

¢ Draft NSCIDs and DSCIDs
¢ DCI notes for NSC meetings

e Reports prepared by various outside panels to study the
CIA and/or the intelligence function in general

e DCI trip files and communications with overseas stations

Status: Projected completion is 1 year.

§

Action Officer: 281818 /(secure)

g:\hrg\hrgiperd.doc

ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICIAL USE ONLY


ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY

October 1997
Guatemala 1954 Covert Action Declassification Project

The main bulk of the collection is approximately 120,000 pages of hard copy materials
spanning the period of 1951-1957. These comprise primarily Directorate of Operations
records, but also including a small number of State Department documents as well as
isolated equities of other components, both Agency internal and Department of Defense.
There are also 22 archival (gray Hollinger) boxes with magnetic tape recordings, afew
maps, and some press clippings.

Scope: To release to the public as much information as possible relating to the buildup of
early 1950s-era policymaker attention to the:“Guatemala problem;” the three main phases
of the covert operation codeworded PBFORTUNE, PBSUCCESS, and PBHISTORY;
and the immediate aftermath of these operations.

Status: To date 1,400 pages have been released to National Archives, along with the 22
boxes.of tapes. The first release also included the collection’s most sensitive records
dealing with discussions of unimplemented plans to assassinate leftist officials of the
Guatemalan government of President Arbenz.

e Of the remaining unreleased records, some 18,000 pages of the most historically
relevant material have been reviewed twice and await final review in HRG, and then by.
the DO representative. When this task is completed and these records released to
Archives, most of the “story” will have been told of US-Guatemalan relations in the
1952-54 era, at least as. concerns.CIA participation in the events.

¢ With the decision to review the remaining 100,000 pages, mostly relating to the
administrative details of conducting the covert operation, the project will extend well
into next calendar year. s§

Content of the Collection

e Periodic intelligence assessments of the situation in Guatemala as it affected US
interests .

¢ Key strategic planning memoranda exploring options and recommendations for
operations

* Operational cables between Washington and the field stations, and communications
among the field stations, including situation reports

° More detailed, less time-sensitive dispatches between the field stations and
Washington

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY


13-00000

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY

e Instructions regarding propaganda themes for the black radio broadcasts of Operation
SHERWOOD ;

© Contact reports and assessments of CIA assets in Guatemala and surrounding
countries

e Post mortems and summarizing documents, debriefing reports, and other assessments
postdating the conclusion of operations +

e State Department policy information statements and cables from the US ambassadors
in the field :

© Press clippings indicating regional reaction to ihe events in Central America

e A large body (over 80 percent) of administrative documents concerning personnel
matters, logistical support, iden cables, contact arrangements, etc.

Action Officer G18 17)

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY


13-00000

October 1997
Declassification of DI-Produced Finished Intelligence on the USSR

The primary organizing feature of the collection is thematic: all DI-produced
finished analysis on the Soviet Union. The collection exists in the form of hard copy
retained in the record-copy holdings at the Agency Archives and Records Center and, for
the older period at least, is generally interspersed among records representing the full
range of DI analysis on all other geographic topics and functional intelligence issues.

e After 1981, the most relevant records tend to be concentrated in the holdings of the
Office of Soviet Analysis and its successors.
i

To qualify as relevant to the Soviet DI project, a piece of finished analysis must
have as its primary focus the Soviet target. This can be either stated or implied as, for
example, in the monthly series entitled North Vietnamese Shipping Report since North
Vietnam’s main trading partner for the period in question was the Soviet Union. We have
also processed in their entirety pieces whose scope entails comment on “Sino-Soviet”
themes.

e Intelligence Community-wide analysis of the USSR, NIEs and similar material, is
outside the scope of the DI-Soviet project and is being done elsewhere in HRG.

¢ An initial decision was made to focus generally on longer pieces with greater shelf
lives and to avoid processing the daily “current” output. To date, however, there has
been at least one departure from this approach in connection with a conference on 24
October 1997, for which we declassified a number of finished intelligence pieces that
were published in dailies and weeklies during the period from 1946-1950.

ye
3

Scope: To release to the public over the next few years as much DI finished intelligence
on the Soviet Union as possible, beginning in 1946 with the creation of the CIG, and
continuing chronologically to the most recent material. Most of the oldest material is
releasable, including political, economic and military analysis.

The duration of the project depends on issues as yet unresolved:

e No final decision has yet been made with respect to a cutoff date for the project, and
various options are currently under discussion. For the present, we are committed to
review only records that are at least 25 years old.

« If the cutoff date is set as late as the breakup of the USSR in 1991, there is some
concern about giving away too much by declassifying the most recent analysis. One
option is to move away from recently produced military/technical analysis based on the


13-00000

most sophisticated collection methods and to declassify the less sensitive political and
economic analysis in the younger records instead.

Status: An initial release of approximately 11,000 pages of finished intelligence has been
through all stages of preparation, including internal review and external coordination with
the Directorate of Intelligence, and is now ready to send to National Archives. In
addition, some 75,000 pages of finished analysis has been selected and reviewed internally
at least twice and is now awaiting final review or coordination with DI components or
other agencies holding equities in the information.

© The 11,000-page proposed first release contains material ranging in date from 1946 to
1972. 7

Content of the Collection

The collection includes both periodic and aperiodic finished intelligence and embraces
most of the reporting genres which were produced in the Directorate of Intelligence. The
list includes, but is not confined to:

Research Reports (CIA/RR XX)

Intelligence Reports (CIA/RR ER XX-XX)

Intelligence Memoranda (IM-XX)

Provisional Intelligence Reports (CIA/RR PR-XX) «

Economic Intelligence Reports (CIA/RR ER XX-XX)

Bi

Project Action Memoranda (Project No. XX.XXXX)

Action Officer: \eisi



13-00000

NIE-43

NIE-95

SNIE 11-9-55

SNIE 11-11-55

SNIE 100-5-57

SNIE 100-6-58

NIE 11-7-60

NIE 11-61

NIE 11-1-62

NIE 11-10-63

NIE 11-10-63

M/E

NIE 11-6-64

Unclassified

6 November 1997

Sanitized apd Declassified Estimates
Being Released to the National Archives
by HRG

Strategic Importance of the Far East to the USSR
Secret (13 November 1951) 13 pages RIF

Probable Soviet Bloc/Courses of Action Through Mid-1955 -
Top Secret (25 September 1953) 12 pages RIF

Clandestine Introduction of Nuclear Weapons under
Diplomatic Immunity Top Secret 032514 (28 June 1955)
5 pages }

Some Implications of a System of Armaments Inspection
Secret (30 August 1955) 10 pages RIF

Probable World Reaction to Certain Civil Defense Programs
Secret (19 March 1957) 7 pages RIF

Implications of Certain US Earth Satellite Programs
Secret (29 July 1958) 12 pages RIF

Soviet Capabilities and Intentions with Respect to the
Clandestine Introduction of Weapons of Mass

Destruction into the US TS 035913 (17 May 1960) 9 pages
RIF «

Probable Intelligence Warning of Soviet Attack on the US
TS 0036854 (6 April 1961) 24 pages

i
The Soviet Space Program
Secret (5 December 1962) 37 pages

Soviet Capabilities and Intentions with Respect to
Chemical Warfare Secret (27 December 1963) 27 pages RIF

Soviet Capabilities and Intentions with Respect to
Chemical Warfare Secret (19 August 1965) 7 pages

Soviet Capabilities and Intentions with Respect to BW
Secret (26 August 1964) 1I\pages RIF
if

1
Unclassified


13-00000

NIE 11-1-65

NIE 11-10-66

NIE 11-1-67

NIE 11-1-67

M/

NIE 4-68

NIE 11-11-69

NIE 11-1-69

NIE 11-1-69

M/E
NIE 11-8-70

NIE 11-8-70

NIE 11-1-71

NIE 11-8-71

Unclassified

The Soviet Space Program
Secret (27 January 1965) 53 pages

‘Warning of Soviet Intention te Attack
TS 0039208 (18 August 1966) 21 pages

The Soviet Space Program
TCS 6224-67 (2 March 1967) 41 pages

The Soviet Space Program
TS 0039284/1 (4 April 1968) 12 pages RIF

The Clandestine Introduction of Weapons of Mass Destruction
into the US TS 190415 (13 June 1968) 11 pages
‘e
Soviet Chemical and Biological Warfare Capabilities
Secret (13 February 1969) 15 pages

The Soviet Space
TCS 1049-69 (19 June 1969) 41 pages

The Soviet Space Program
TCS 2916-70 (26 March 1970) 8 pages

Soviet Forces for Intercontinental Attack (pages 19-108)

TCS 190533 (24 November 1970) 94 pages

[NOTE: Pages through 18 of this NIE were released in early 1995.
For convenience we have included a copy of the earlier release
with this package. The pages of the previous release are not
included in the total page count for this 1997 release. ]

Soviet Forces for Intercontinental Attack
Annex I, Cost of Soviet Force Models
Secret TCS 2935-70/II. (24 November 1970) 11 pages

The Soviet Space Program
TCS 2032-71 (1 July 1971) -60 pages

Soviet Forces for Intercontinental Attack (pages 32-103)

TS 190558 (21 October 1971) 74 pages

[NOTE: Pages through Chapter I of the “Discussion” on page 32
of this NIE were released in early 1995. For convenience we have
included a copy of the earlier release with this package. The
pages of the previous release‘are not included in the total page
count for this 1997 release.]

2
Unclassified


13-00000

Unclassified

Memorandum for Recipients of NIE 11-8-71, Soviet Forces for Intercontinental
Attack, Cost of Illustrative Soviet Intercontinental Attack
Force ee 889065-72 (9 March 1972) 19 pages

NIE 11/20-73 The Soviet Approach to Force Reductions in Europe
TS 833342 (11 January 1973) 25 pages

NIE 11-1-73 Soviet Space Programs
Secret (20 December 1973) 26 pages

NIAM 11-9-74 Soviet Detente Policy, Secret (23 May 1974) 23 pages

TIR 74-018 A Soviet Land-Mobile ICBM: Evidence of Development
and Considerations ‘Affecting a Decision on Deployment
TCS 889100-74 (October!1974) 40 pages

TR 75-015 Soviet Strategic Policies and Force Options Under the
Vladivostok Understanding
TCS 889068-75 (3 March 1975) 46 pages

TIM 76-016 The Soviet Statsionar Satellite Communications System:
Implications for Intelsat Secret (April 1976) 38 pages

NIO IM 76-030J —_ Implications for US-Soviet Relations of Certain Soviet
Activities TCS 8890999-76 (June 1976) 18 pages

TIM 76-039) Trends in Soviet Military Programs
TCS 889106 (October 1976) 69 pages

NIO IIM 76-041 Soviet Civil Defense
Secret (November 1976) 110 pages

TIM 77-029 Soviet Civil Defepse: Objectives, Pace, and Effectiveness
Secret (December 1977) 153 pages
--See also NI IIM 81-10001D--

IIM 78-100183 Indications and Warning of Soviet Intentions to use
Chemical Weapons during a NATO-Warsaw Pact War
TCS 892764/78 (August 1978) 26 pages

NIE 11-1-80 Soviet Military Capabilities and Intentions in Space
TCS 3166-80 (6 August 1980) 66 pages

NIIIM 81-10001D Soviet Civil Defense: Objectives, Pace, and Effectiveness
M/H of 11M77-029 Secret (July 1981) 73 pages‘

3
Unclassified


13-00000

NIC M 81-10009

SNIE 11/50/37-82

SNIE 11/50/37-82

SNIE 11/50/37-82
M/H
NIE 11-16-83

NIE 11-1-83

NIE 11-1-83

NIE 11-1-83

TM-83 10005

IIM-83 10005

SNIE 11/17-2-84

NIE 11-1/7-84

NIE 11-1/7-84

Unclassified

Evolving Soviet Strategy Toward LRTNF Negotiations
Secret (September 1981) 10 pages

Use of Toxins ‘and Other Lethal Chemicals in Southeast
Asia and Afghanistan, Volume I—Key Judgments
TCS 3060-82 (2 February 1982) 30 pages

Use of Toxins and Other Lethal Chemicals in Southeast
Asia and Afghanistan, Volume IJ—Supporting Analysis
TCS 3060-82/I (26 February 1982) 98 pages

Use of Toxins and Other Lethal Chemical in Southeast
Asia and Afghanistan Secret (1983) 39 pages

The Soviet Approach to Airms Control and Implications for
START and INF TS 833342 (8 March 1983) 30 pages

Soviet Space Programs: Future Missions and Capabilities, Key
Judgments Secret (19 July 1983) 15 pages

Soviet Space Programs: Future Missions and Capabilities
Volume I—Key Judgments and Summary
TS 833351 (19 July 1983) 29 pages

Soviet Space Programs: Future Missions and Capabilities
Volume II—The Estimate TCS 5086-83 (19 July 1983)
98 pages

Soviet Wartime Management: The Role of Civil Defense
for Leadership Continuity, Volume I-Key Judgments
Secret (December 1983) 18 pages

Soviet Wartime Management: The Role of Civil Defense
for Leadership Continuity, Volume II-Analysis
TCS 3601-83 (December 1983) 171 pages

Soviet Offensive Cheinical Warfare Threat to NATO
SC 03938-84 (20 November 1984) 24 pages

Potential for the Transfer of Space Technology to the Soviet
Union, Key Judgments Secret (26 November 1984) 10 pages

Potential for the Transfer of Space Technology to the
Soviet Union, Volume I—Key Judgments and Summary
SC 04127-84 (26 November 1984) 19 pages

4
Unclassified


13-00000

Unclassified

NIIIA 84-10006 Soviet Approach to Nuclear Winter
Secret (December 1984) 43 pages

SNIE 11-16-85 Soviet Strategic & Political Objectives in Arms Control in 1985
Key Judgments Secret (March 1985) 12 pages

SNIE 11-16-85/L Soviet Strategic & Political Objectives in Arms Control in 1985
Secret (March 1985) 33 pages

NIE 11-3/8-84/85 Soviet Capabilities for Strategic Nuclear Conflict Through the
Mid-1990s, Key Judgments
SC 02190-85 (25 April 1985) 31 pages

NIE 11-3/8-84/85 Soviet Capabilities for Strategic Nuclear Conflict Through the
Mid-1990s, Volume K—Suinmary
TCS 4933-85 (25 April 1985) 77 pages

NIE 11-1-85 The Soviet Space Program: Future Missions and Capabilities
Key Judgments Secret (December 1985) 9 pages
NIE 11-1-85 The Soviet Space Program: Future Missions and Capabilities
Volume I—Key Judgments and Executive Summary
_ TCS 5330-85/1 (December 1985) 22 pages

Total Pages: 2,165

g:\hrg\97nielst.doc

5
Unclassified


13-00000

14 April 1998
“SET

Addendum to 3 October 1997 ADD Watch List: JFK Assassination Records
Section Ill. B. Key Subjects [items two and three]:

-- CIA anti-Cuban operations 1960-64 (Mongoose, Bay of Pigs, Cuban exile organizations, etc.).

{ Although much anti-Cuban material may be considered ancillary or not related to the assassination
(1963 documents are considered directly relevant), a significant amount of this material has already
been reviewed and released under the JFK Act. For example: the Kennedy Administration’s Cuban
National Security File(over 23,000 pages) was reviewed by a joint DO/HRP/ARRB/ STATE/DOD
team at the Kennedy Presidential Library under the JFK Act; the 3% Volume of the History of the Bay
of Pigs and the Bay of Pigs postmortem Taylor report and attachments have'designated as
assassination records. ] Ute

~~ (No change in Castro assassination and Mafia guidance) - noe
