# 104-10074-10043

## Page 1

104-10074-10043

WeE COP

44: € 0F

CRET

40

DISSEN BY

ACTION

2

SECRET 311416Z 0EC

68 CITE WH/MIAMI 2240

SANTO DOMINGO INFO DIRECTOR, PURT AU PRINCE]

RYBAT TYPIC

16÷10

REF [SANTO DOMINGO 673S A 54727)

FERNANDO PENADAZ OF REF IS PROBABLY IDENTICAL WITH

3: DеC68 N6 3211

FERNANDO PENABAL COBURN <201-271566) DOB: CIRCA 19210

BALTIMORE, MARYLAND. ACCUFOING TO AN AMOT REPORT DATCO

iS OCTOBER 19630 PENABAZO A LAWYER AND JOURNALIST,

ATTENDED DUKE UNIVEROIIY AT SAME TIME AS FRESIDENT ELECT

RICHARD NIXON AND IS GOOD FRIEND OF NIXON. PENABAZ

PRACTICED LAW IN SANTIAGO DE CUBA AND REPORIEDLY FORFEITED

Le So

CITIZENSHIP WHEN HE TOON OATH AS CUBAN LAWYER. BETUANTO

TO US IN 19600 STATION FILE IS SKETCHY BUT HE APPARENILY

WAS OF OPS INTEREST TU PWAVE PSYCH WARFARE SECTION UNTIL

LATE 1963 WHEN HE DROPPED SECAUSE OF INVOLVEMENT IN LOSS

POLITICS, MIAMI NERALO OF ZA AUGUST 6A REPORTED ME NAD

BEEN APPOINTED ADVISOR TU REPUSLICAN NATIONAL CONMITTEE ON

CUDAN AFFAIRS. AN ANOI REPORT DATED

15 NOVEMBER 1966 STATES

PENABAZ WAS MEMBER OF THE CHRISTIAN ANTI-CONMUNIST CRUSADE

(CACC), A RIGHTIST GROUP ORGANIZED ALONG LINES OF JOHN

BIRCH SECESTY, AND UNTIL AT LEAST ISES WAS ON PAYROLL

OR CACC AS DIRECTOR FOR LATIN AMERICAN AFFAIRES

ACCORDING

RETURNTO CIA.

RETURN TO CIA.

Background Use Oniye

SECRET Background U95 Coly

"Do NO. NO

Do Not Reproduc

10601

---

## Page 2

14-00000

DOVANTE CON

BOULD

BLOTTEN

PADDUCTION OF THIS COPY "YO

NORN

SECRET

ACtION

RID COPY

PAGE 2 UN/MIAMI 2200 SECRET

TO UFG-7798, 15 DECEMBER 19650 FROM A USUALLY RELIADLE

SOURCE, PENABAZ, AN ASSOCIATE OF GENERAL EDWIN WALKER,

WAS ARRANGING A MEETING BETWEEN GENERAL WALKER AND

GENERAL ELIAS WESSIN Y WESSIN®

IGENT

2a.

IN JANUARY 67

REPORTED THAT HE AND

ANOTHER CUBAN EXILE HAD MET WITH ONE RAYMOND MOLINA:

SOUTH FLORIDA REGIONAL COORDINATOR OF THE JOHN BIRCH

SOCIETY, TO DISCUSS SUPPORT FOR AN OPERATION AGAINST FIDEL

CASTRO. MOLINA SAID HE WOULD CONSIDER THIS PLAN AND ALSO

JA PLAN FOR OPERATION AGAINST HAITI. IT WAS UNDERSTOUD

BY

AGENT

INAT THE SOCIETY MIGHT FINANCE THUSE UPENATIONG.

ACCORDING TO MOLINA'S BUSINESS CARD, HE WAS ASSUCIATED WITN

CONSOLIDATED INVESIMENT PROPERIIES, INCO, MIAMI SCAON,

AND/OR PALM BEACH DEVELOPMENT AND SALES COAPORATION.

30 FOLLOWING IS FROY STATION CARD. CARO INDICATES

DOCUMENT CA

MEMO DATED 12 FEBRJARY TORON IS FILES

IN 201-265497 WHICH TRANSPERRED TO NOS IS RAY 1958.

RAYMOND MOLINA, CUSAM, IS PROPRIETOR OF 'AMERICANA SALES"

AN EXPORT COMPASY WHICH APPEARS TO SE ONE OF THE SOURCES OF

SECRET

---

## Page 3

14-00000

Haran

" & it 8rd

SECRET

DY.

RID COPy

PAGE 3 WH/MIAMI 2206SE CHAT

CONTRABAND ARMS AND DINER PRODUCIS FOR COLOMBIA ENO

OTHER LATIN AMERICAN CUUNIRIES. MOLINA HAD GONE IU:

PANAMA TO BUY WHISKEY WHICH WAS TO BE SMUGGERO INTO

COLOMBIA.

SINCE PENABAZ AND MOLINA APPARENILY ARE U.S.

CITIZENS AND ARE INVOLVED IN LOS POLITICS, STATION

DID NOT QUERY AMOT DEFER TO HOS FOR GUIDANCE ON MON

MUCH, IF ANY, OF ABOVE TRACES MAY BE DISCUSSED WITH

ENWISE-?

5 0.

FILE: 201-271566. INDEX MOLINA•

SECRET

SECRET

SECRET

---

