# 104-10105-10223

## Page 1

104-10105-10223

¡ANCE CCOY

ISSUED

SLOTTED

GROUP 1

EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC

(When Filled In)

Tinarpastor Ant

DICLASSIFICATION

ZEPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROMIBITED

2

AT:.

To Use Only

Donor Reproduce

File Werbell

FICT

C/FEY

TIONNO

241

÷ z

RECTOR

PER.

_#_

ARRED.

aja, 1R 5-3

FILE, VR

C/IP/AN, DDP, ADDP, C/FE/INO 4, C/EE/LOC 2

C/C/, C/SAVA

D/SECUE 4, C/SOD 3

(13

ET 121148Z NOW 71 CITE

TO J

24725 (SEGERQUIST ACTINGS

VIENT IANE SAIGON

13-25.

TYSAT SECUR

EF: DIRECIOR 88114 KNOTALS

MR. MITCHELL A. WERBELL, MILITARY ARMAMENT

CORPORATION (FORMERLY AN ELEMENT OF WERBELL'S GEORGIA

12Mov IN 487962

ASED FIRM OF SIONICS WHICH REPORTEDLY WENT

ANKRUPTY, IS BACK IN BANGKOX ATTEMPIING IO SELL HIS WARES

MACHING PISTOLS AND SNIPER RIFLES). THE REF MESSAGE CITES

HE FACT THAT HQS HAS A LENGIHY 201 ON SUBJECT (201-259910)

NO THAT HE IS CHARACTERIZED AS UNSCRUPULOUS, A WHEELER-DEALER

ND A PROMOTER OF GRANDIOSE SCHEMES. HE HAS ON OCCASION

LIUORD EITHER TO BEING AN LNLUTE REP OR HAVING LNLUTE BACKING.

2. SUBJECT MET WITH SEVERAL LNCUFF OFFICERS ON 5 NOV

1 AND RELATED THAT HE WAS ATTEMTING AGAIN TO INTEREST THE

HAI GOVERNMENT IN PURCHASING HIS PRODUCIS. .. SUBJECI CLAIMS

C BE PERSONAL FRIEND CF. AIR CHIEF MARSHAL DAWEE AND THAT

IS SAMPLE WEAPONS WERE CONSIGNED IO DAWEE IN ORDER TO BRING

HEN INTO THAILAND.

3°

SUBJECT ADVISED LNCUFF THAT GEN. KRIANGSAKE

ORDERED

SECRET:

does 11 1944-81302 first

2000040 MUSin

230

50.,:32521

---

## Page 2

ANCE COPY

ISSUED

SLOTTED

EXCHURE IRON AURONATIC 2

(When Filled in)

DLCLASSIFICATION

REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROMIBITED

& RETURNTO GIA

Background Use Only

Do Nol Reproduce

•EM. BY

FION UNIT

PER

FILE, VR

TON NO

18-5

NGE TWO

24725 SECRET

NE HUNDRED MACHINE PISTOLS AND IWENTY SNIPER RIFLES. HE

_SO INDICATED THAT HE HAD MET WITH HO S.H. ADMIRAL DISKUL,

HISF AIDE DE CAMP TO HOM. THE KING AND CLAIMS HE WILL SELL

ES MACHINE PISTOL TO THE ROYAL FALACE GUARDS. FURTHER

LAIMS HE WILL HAVE AUDIENCE THIS WEEK WITH H.M. THE KING.

40 FOLLOWING MIS CURRENT THAILAND VISIT, ON 16 NOV 71

UBJECT AND MR.O JASON M. STONE (201-095998) PLAN TRAVEL

NOM PENH. PLAN TO CONTACI MR. LADD AT PHNOM PENH. . ACCORD-

2 LNCUFF SUBUECI PLANS CONTACI CAMBODIAN MIL. AUTHORITIES

03 POSSIBLE WEAPONS SALES. SUBJECT. HAS ALREADY DEMONSTRATED

TEMS FOR GEN. POXSAMAN IN BANGKOK.

5. MR. JASON

M. SIONE IS HEAD OF BANGKOK BASED FIRM

= ASSCCIATED CONSULTANIS CORDANY LID. HE IS CHINESE, WHO

ORKED WITH WERBELL IN SEA DURINS WWII. SUBJECT NOW REPRE-

ENIS BELCIAN ARMS FIRMS AND

IS REP FOR PILATUS PORTER

IRORAFT

G. FOLLOWING PHNOM PENH VISIT WERBELL PLANS TRAVEL TO LAOS IN

PILATUS PORTER, PROBABLY WITH STONE•

TO DUE RESIRICTION ON PASSING DEROG ON U.S. CITIZEN, 24

ELIEVE BEST APPROACH TO FOLLOW IS CAREFUL ADVICE TO LOCAL

SECRETOra

---

## Page 3

14-00000

NCE COPY

ISSUED

SLOTTED

DECLASSIFICATION

REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED

6

3

4

M. BY

ON UNIT

ON NO.

PER.

N

F

RETURN TO GIA

Background Use Only

•Do Not steproduc

FILE, VR

18-5

GE THREE

→ It

P4725 SECREI

THAT SUBJECT HAS NO OFFICIAL LNLUTE RELATION.

O CAUTION SHOULD BE EXERCISED IN ANY BUSINESS DEAL.

ECRET

GP-1

* E/S APPARENTLY WRONG REF:

.....-n...

Meiers

• ...

-----i

2a nana ne

119:10;

....

SECRET:

.. "'..,l..

•aai.... ... =

---

