# 104-10295-10053

## Page 1

104-10295-10053

EVALUATION OF SOURCE.

A Completely reliable.

Unatte rel-ebt

cures el doubital honest er lore regardless el their competence!

1: PRAISAL DE CONTEMY.

6: Cannol to judged.

D Mot usually re iable.

E: Mol reliaste.

(Appled #s

Rebasaid cannot be juated

(Applied to unfosted or lasulliciend!

: Contamed by otter independent end relabl sources. 2: Probablyture, 3: Possiblytrue, M: Doubllul. S. Pratas

ocumentary: Based on original docomed

* =

COUNTRY C/•Il0

SUBJECT

visit of Culen l'octorg

to

litodsuarters of the trelido

Coma saln de Calle

REPORT NO.

HCS-3292

DATE OF REPORT 12 Piay 1959

NO. OF PAGES One

REFERENCES

DATE OF. 11 i05 1959

INFO.

sur.tIu o

PLACE & 11 : y 1959)

DATE ACC

SOURCE EVALUATIONS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE. NOTE FOREGOING EXPLANATION.

Son-Chilean resident of Santiago (B). Appraisal of Content: 2.

SOURCE:

at 1100 :10rs, delorior i in

Geco: muried ly o Cular urry

sond for Clan carlilors,

melted the honoguurters of thie Partido commileta de Chilr

(icon) in ins.t10g0e

Field Cornert. i

El Sirlo, newspaper of the POCh, on ll May reported the

return of ALiNDE from Benos Afres

were he had attended tne

Medical Congress.

Arrising with ALLENDI, according to the

article, were the following Cuban medical doctors:

anfeldeir or the

ac can da nice cat do to tann

AdOlIO XROPRIGUEZ de la Ver AnnelySUSiA. TE, resident el

Erresto (Che) ¡LEVARA: José

Le Emertua te le dinfederaçión lédica Penonerice ARO:A,

Jose XLÚPIZ. Sánchez,

Jose Miguel de

Angela KRuIs Lopez, Special ropresentative of the 26tr of

July lovement.

According to bi sirlo.

GUERRA WaS scheduled

to be at the Hosoltal San Borja at 1100 house. u ii..

sta, Eastone demonittee of the

(Dr.) - CiT. Cuba. El Sinte Newspopa. of POch, on"

May 1954 reparted that Suly drived. is Santiaye

chile, from B.A. Pagantics on the company of.

Salvador ALLENDE COSSENS

201-57100000

Headouartors Commentsy

Dr .

Jose harel BORN'T:: tas been jescribed in

the past as a vell-kom particinant in front

activities of tre Partido Incialista Popular (PSP,

Cula Conquist Party).

Cr. CS-?1005 and CS-15137

for previ us reports on his Co- unirt activities.

ITr. Jose INP'Z Sanchez' name arpeared on a list

of fu an Corunists craptled bị

the Bureau for

the Popression of Co-curist ictivities

during tie BiTI Mi regise.

201-57118

201-0022396

eS COPY

---

