BADGE NOs

BA Ys

FROM: = ¢Requesfere' name)

4-W.BRA Sk

“SECRET

NAME CHECK AND CONSOLIDATION REQUEST

EXTENSION

PO8S

Roow

S< 89

= eka

oh
To Tae

DATE ID CONTROL WO.

28 Faye

ROOM DATE TNIT{ALS|

CHECKING INSTRUCT IONS

Rios tNDEX ors.

3 die

JR 1D/aNaLysts

Rio/uis

JR19/ 1NoeX

‘Sus JECT 70

BE CHECKED

yuoetBvicn, BD. L.

SPELLING VARIATIONS TO BE CHECKED

AKA, ALIASES

OTHER IDENTIFYING DATA (Occupation, GF wenborship,

1. 8. affiliations, ete.)

Bavcler of Kucks (Lat

SEX [oaTe oF BiRTH

PLACE OF BIRTH

CITIZENSHIP

YSSL

Res TOBE Tyco

RESULTS OF RI

107 INDEX CHECK

NO PERTINENT IDENTIFIABLE INFORMATION

ConmENTS

CARD REFERENCES ATTACHED

INSTRUCTIONS FOR REQUESTERS

IN ALL CASES

201 CONSOLIDATION

© vse gumea label; type or print all
entries.

@) Upon receipt of index card reproductions
draw @ green diagonal line across the
items you do not want.

@

Bait (use green) the reproduced index
cards to indicate:

(a) cards to be destroyed (mark with
green D and note reason for destruction)
Examples: document destroyed; duplicate
or less informative than retained in-
formation; information of no CS value.

()

corrections and additions, inclu~

ding infinity symbol eo when cera in-
cludes all facts contained in the
document.

1. Return this form with the card repro-
ductions, also return pertinent documents,
aperture cards and the dossier if a 201 on
the subject exists.

2. For each document to be included in the
consolidation (i.e., copy or cross reference
to be placed in the 201 file), green D the
corresponding card and check (a) or (b)
below:

(@)O
201-

Open 201 file on subject.

Consolidate into |

(d)

RESTRICTION (IF any)

Note 1. Records of COI, SSU, OSS and CIG
are in RID/ARD, and those that meet
indexing criteria in CSHB 70-1-1 ere
carded in the CS Main Index. If you
believe there coula be additional in-
formation of value in these records,
you wust request an Archives Index
search.

‘OTHER INTERESTED DESKS OR STATIONS

Information concerning foreign
public personalities (except mili-
tary) may be available in BR/OCR
xT99T-

SIGNATURE OF RECORDS” OFFICER

;


13-00000

YUDALEVICK
BORN C1897
: YUDILEVICH, DAVID
BORN 3 APRIL 1882
. IN TIRASPOL, RUSSIA

fs

CARD

FILED IN
IAKIN

i SB} woex
+
;

Onan Pe Be

coe Pioungniverd, Revendre art
sotorence on toe vies appiiction of PH

Schiae
| 4H
i



YUDELEVICH Marconich, D,

YUDELEVICH, MOISES 200.
BORN 17 JAN, sdaieg HS
Fane 7 1924 HZP-02105

ICH, Moises K.
ah

YUDELEYI2, Hi W. Wiai2o0)
15 Apr 52

= ~ 209=$=5-2829
4102, Moises (iPee120}

ELETOZ, Fruma Mischkin de
Born? 1h Sept 1902
Baranwiez, Poland

YUpNLEI0%, Fruma Mischkin de
Born: 14 Sept, 1902
Baranviez, Poland

YDELEVIT, Bia y,

THIS CARD Fire
5 250805

= nm

