: i (we

"LED IND

ROUTING |

aD RECORD SHEET

INSTRUCTIONS

FILING

TO: ACTION BRANC

Sect. 2.onback. Detach back flap

ard to RID.
front cover sheet, unless it rec
cant action taken or comments requir-

vation,

If file no, and title shown are not proper,
insert proper file no. below and forward
document to RID/AN.

RID/

PROPER FILE NO,

FO. ALL ADDRE

FILL IN SECTION 1 ON BACK, IF APPROPRIATE

Comments

mT H

13) ~ i

159%

DOCUMENT NUMBER

Loy sy
i fo UF | UWCA 03510
SECRET

«407



14-00000 *
| Df ba [Z-

: D SP AT C Hi 7 GASSIFVATION PROCESSING ACTION
a or RYBAT/SECRET MARKED FOR INDEXING
ic) a

Chief, DO/I | no ioexine require
TPO. ~ JONLY QUALIFIED DESK. 7
[CAN JUDGE INDEXING
FROM ie
ih MICROFILAA
SURIET WONUSE

“Peace Demonstrations

‘ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES
DIRECTOR 39871

1. Enclosed for Headquarters information are copies of
literature mailed by the Catholic Association for Inter-—
national Peace (CAIP) to its members (attachments 1, 2 and 3)
concerning "Negotiation Now!"

2, Also enclosed as of possible interest are copies of
CAIP materials (attachments 3, 4 and 5) concerning its 40th
Annual Conference, scheduled for October 27 - 29, the theme of
which is "Selective Conscientious Objection in an Age of
Conflict." The conference is to.be held at Dunbarton College
of Holy Cross, 2935 Upton Street N.W., Washington, D. C.

3. The above items were received: by|

i: = i
= \ Attachments 1, 2 and 3 are forwarded in
response to reference,

Attachments: As stated,

Distribution:
3 - Chief, DO/I w/atts
1 <= Chief, DO w/o att

(CROSS REFRRENCE TO [DISPATCH SYMBOL AND HUMBER
UWCA-3510

om D} BGT War
11 October 1987

63

ed

GASIFICATION HOS File NUMBER
RYBAT/SECRET

