# 104-10021-10093

## Page 1

104-10021-10093

MLASSIETED

SUBJECT: (Optional)

FROM:

RI/AN

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and

building)

CI/RA

2C

29

2.

-ONL

PE CON NTIAL

ROUTiNG AND RECORD SHEET

WFA

DATE

RECEIVED

FORWARDED

EXTENSION

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

XT SECRET

2P

NO.

XAAZ- 22759

DATE

21 Fab 64

COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom

to whom.

Draw a line across column after each comment.)

WFA

5.

CI/RA

20

29

6.

7.

CI/RA

8.

9.

10.

1.1.

12.

Datin me 559-243

for FOlA Review CHA JUN 1978

15.

FORM

3-62

610 USE PREVIOUS

EDITIONS

X

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

MICROFILMED

AUG 2 0 1965

Bill DOC MICRO-BER.

how about ZR'ing to

O's 201 and dacifyn;

wats Duran's 201?

magle better get hond

cross- filling of you aga

with latter,'

copies made.

3-5/ Originals of attachments

filed in DURANS 201. I have

Zl'd to show that they.

have bean sant to Commits.

OGRAM

ANNEA

RACT

CI/RA

INDEX

ANUEA

ABSTRACT

INDEX

201-289248

INTERNAL

UNCLASSIFIED

USE ONLY

---

## Page 2

13-00000; *

stentT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

WASHINGTON,. D.C. 20505

Commission No.

426

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1992

CIA MISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

21 FEB 1964

MEMORANDUM FOR: Mr. J. Lee Rankin

SUBJECT:

Translations of Interrogation

Reports of Silvia DURAN

This is responsive to numbered paragraph two, in your

letter to this Agency dated February 10, 1964 and is further

to my reply of February 19, 1964.

There are attached translations, from the Spanish,

of

the results of interrogations of Silvia DURAN and her

husband in Mexico City during the period 23 to 28 November

1963.

These interrogations were conducted by the Mexican

police in the course of their follow-up of the OSWALD case

after the assassination. [These materials were given to us

by the Mexican police agency that performed the interrogation.

Richard Helms

Deputy Director for Plans

Attachments - 2

sortine in tracet in the only deletion in This downin.

---

## Page 3

13-00000

THIS NOTE CONCERNS DOCUMENT XAAZ- 22759

• DATED 2| Feb '64

(ALSO KHOMN AT NATIONAL ARCHIVES AS DOCUMENT + MONA Comission Do # 426) .

THE ATTACHED COPY OF THIS DOCUMENT SHOWS THE SEGMENT (S) WHICH REMAINS

CLASSIFIED AND HAS NOT BEEN RELEASED TO THE PUBLIC.

the only deletion is

last sentence of last para of cover letter.

AARONSOFT

20217 990444

---

## Page 4

13-00000

4-0940

MICROFILMED

AUL 2 0 1965

DOC. MICRO, SER

XAAZ-227551

21 FEB 1054

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1992

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

MEMORANDUM FOR: MI. J. Lee Rankin

(201-740720)

SUBJECT:

Translations' of Interrogatlon

Reporte of SilviDURAN as

Transmitted

to Warren Commission

This ls responsive to numbered paragraph two, in your

letter to this Agency dated February 10, 1964 and ls further

to nay reply of February 19, 1964.

Thore are attached translatlons, from the Spanieb, of

the results of interrogations of Silvia DURAN and her

husband in Mexico City during the perlod 23 to 28 November

1963.

These Interrogations were conducted by the Mexican

police lo the course of their follow-up of the OSWALD case

after the assassination. These materials were given to us

by the Mexican pollce agency that performed the interrogation.

Document Numbar 559-243

for FOlA Review of

JUN 1976

(Signed) Richard Istins

Richard Helms

Deputy Director for Plans

2 ATTS.h/W

Attachments - 2

Distribution:

Original &

2 - Addressee w/atts

2 - DDP w/atts (one set atts. only)

1 - C/CI w/atts

~ - Chief, CI/R&A w/atts

1 - Chief, CI/SIG w/atts

1 - Chief, WH/3 w/atts

CI:RGRocca/dc (attachments are copies of DIR 85758 of 29 Nov. '63

and CSCI: 3/779-482 of 10 Jan - '64),

IS COPY

D

201-259248

2176-64

---

## Page 5

13-00000

MICROFLMED

TRANSLATION

AUG 2 0 1965

Rosults of the laterroue Mile Tirado De DURAN (Silvia DURAN).

her husband, Horacio DURAN Navarro et al, Immediately Following Their

Detainment on 23 November 1963.

With regard to the assansination of the President of the United States,

John F. Kennedy, It was learned that Lee Harvey OSWALD had been in

Mexico prevlously and accordingly this investigation was undertaken with

the following results:

Lee Harvey OSWALD was in fact in Mexico entering through

Nuevo Laredo, Tamaulipas. On 26 September 1963 as a tourist from New

Orleans and leaving through this same port of entry on 3 October 1963.

It was confirmed that he had come to Mexico to obtain a visa

from the Cuban Embassy to transit Cuba enroute to Moscow.

In this connection he made contact with Silvia Tirado De DURAN,

Mexican, (Silvia DURAN) with whom he met on two occasions since she is

the Consulate employee in charge of carrying out the necessary procedures

for this type of visa and filling out the cards with data about the requester.

an essential requirement to obtain a Cuban visa.

By direction from her. he contacted the Russian Consulate for

the same purpose. On learning that Silvia DURAN has been one of the

contacts Lee Harvey OSWALD made in Mexico, this woman and her husband,

Horaclo DURAN Navarro, were detained for Interrogation. They made the

following declarations:

1. Horacio DURAN Navarro: Mexican by birth, the son of a

Chilean father and Mexican mother. He sald that he is an industrial

designer, having received his degree at the Escuela Nacional De Artes

Plasticas. He worke for U.N. A.M. recelving a salary of 1400.00 pesos

monthly, 40 years old, no religion, married, address Constituyentes 143,

Dept. 3, Mexico City.. He lived in Los Angeles, California for the flrat

eight years of his life coming to this capital (Mexico City) with his parents

Rufino DURAN and Lidia Navarro De DURAN. Later they went to live in

Santiago, Chile where they remained for one and one-half years.

returned to Mexico with his brother Ruben, his sister Lydla and his mother

came later.

OS COPY

ATT. I TO: XAAZ-227591

201-289248

---

## Page 6

13-00000

2. He entered the Escuela Nacional De Agricultura De Chapingo,

where he studied agricultural englueering for five years and as such

had practiced at the Academia De San Carlos; he chose to continue to

study thls art, which served as a base for speclallalng in Induatrial

design which he now practices, being head of that subject at the Escuela

De Artes Plasticas De La U, N. A.M., dedicating his free time to private

work as a designer, for which he obtals an Income of approximately

5000.00 pesos monthly.

3. In 1950 he mariled Lucile DEJARDIN, French, and they have

one son named Paul DURAN Dejardl, who la now ten years old. The

martlage lasted about at years after which he was divorced on

5 November 1958.

4. He then marrled his present wife Silvla DURAN by whom &

child was born, & daughter named Patricia age three and one-half years.

When he met his present wle she was working as a secretary at Galeria

Porteo and she later began to meet other people, among them Professor

Agustin Cue CANOVAS, the cultural attaches of the Cuban Embasay and

others. She has served as coordinator of the Mexicar-Cuban Institute

of Cultural Relations, Jose MARTI, and for the last four months has

worked for Consul Easeble AZCUE and now with MIRABAL recelving a

monthly salary of 1500. 00 pesos. He admitted that his Ideology is

leftist and that he is aympathetic to the Cuban revolution giving his as

a rearon why he permitted his wle to engage in the activities which it

promotes.

5. He stated that in talking to his wife about the assassination of

President Kennedy she recognized the name of the accused Lee Harvey

OSWALD and Immediately sald that she thought that he had dealt with

the same Individual who ln the lant days of September or first daya of

October had been In the Cuban Consulate requeating a visa for Cuba In

transit to Russla. That nhe personally attended to him and gave directions

regarding the visa request but indicating that It was necessaryto fret

have a vira from the Russlan Consulate and that he should send bis request

to the Ministerio De Relaciones De Cuba which probably would take

several days. OSWALD became very annoyed and Silvia called Conaul

AZCUE, with whom OSWALD had a heated argument He stated that he had

---

## Page 7

13-00000

never seen or known Let Harvey OSWALD personally and that in

December 1961, he made a trip to Cuba accompanled by his wife.

They pald for their own tickets.

Sia Tirado De DURAN stated she la Mexican by birth, 26

years old, married, no religion, employed, addreas in Dept. 3, house

nO. 143 Constituyentes, Mexico City, that she has been marriod to

Horaclo DURAN Navarto since 5 November 1958 and that they have a

daughtes named Patricia three and me half years old; that in July or

August of 196l, she was offered employment as coordinator at the

Mexican-Cuban Inatitute of Cultural Relatlons, then headed by Llc.

Agustin Cus CANOVAS. That since that time she had frequently vialted

officers a the Cuban Embanny, having personal friendahlp with

Ambassador PORTUONDO, the cultural attaches Teresa PROENZA and

Lils ALVERU as well in with othes employees. Her contacts were

principally wIth Maricarmen OLAVARRI, Secretary to Consul Euseblo

AZCUE, & Spanlard and relative of AZCUs, and who received 500. 00

pesos monthly.

%. In December 1961 she and her husband made a trip to Havana

by plane. They paid for their own tickets, but all other expenses of

their visit to all the lalands were pald by the Cuban Institute of Frlend-

«hip with the Peoples (I. C. A.P.), and the Cultural House.

8. She did not know her husband'a salary alnce his income is

very Irregular - his only fixed incone la from the school, 1200. 00 peaos

monthly. She as well as her husband have automoblles.

%. She sympathized with the Cuban movement since Its beginning;

that me was a coordinator of the Mexican Cuban Inatitute of Cultural

Relationa since July or August 1961 and that she studled for the career

of an English-Spanlah secretary at the Escuela Bancarla. She mastered

English and knows some French and Is studying Philosophy. She has a

leftiat ideology, by conviction, and is in accord with communism. but

does not belong to any political group nor has the participated in meetings

or acta of thie nature.

That offlicers of the Cuban Embaany, Including

the Consul, have been In her home: that she knows almost all the principal

leftiets in Mexico without being a frlend of them; that except for one vialt

to Brownesville. Texas, she has not been in the Unlted States.

= 3=

---

## Page 8

13-00000

10. With respect to the attempt on President Kennedy, when she

heard the news she became depressed and thought that the author was

some maniac and when she know that it was an element of "The Fair

Play for Cuba', she did not bdleve it at first. During Preaident Kennedy's

visit to Mexico, she did not attend any of the functions that were held in

his honor and did not otherwise participate. In talklag with her husband

when they learned of the assassination she sald it could have been done by

radicals and when Lee Harvey OSWALD entered into the discuasion, she

recognlied him as the same person that had come to the Cuban Consulate

about two months previous to requent a tranalt visa to Rusala.

11. She remembered his name because of his unusual characteristles

and the circumstances of his visit le.. he was married to a Ruslan and

sald he belonged to the "Fal. Play for Cuba", that she checked his data in

the Consulate's archives and she was then sure that it was the same person.

That he is blond, short, poorly dressed. that his face gets red when he

talks; that he was denied a visa because the Consul told him that in order

to obtaln one he would first need a visa from the Russlan Consulate and this

procedure would take about four months and urged OSWALD to leave

Mexico. OSWALD became angry and for this reason she had to call the

Consul with whom he had an argument.

That OSWALD was told that the

ald which could be glven to him was to advise hira to go to the Russian Con-

sulate. The Consul then spoke by telephone to the person in charge of that

office, and was informed that the case would have to be referred to Moscow

and that there would be a four month delay. That In the afternoon of the

same day Lee Harvey OSWALD returned to the Cuban Consulate and that

she conflimed that he would only be given a visa when he had one from the

Russian Consulate giving hins, on a plece of paper, her name Silvia DURAN

with the office telephone numbet but that OSWALD was not given her address

since he had no reason to have It. That It was not her place to telephone

the Russian Consulate and ll she did it was in an official form and to help

Lee OSWALD In the Interent of performing her duties. That lf she gave

him her telephone number lt was no that he could later ask ll the visa had

been obtained, but he never called again.

12. It should be mentloned that in the home at which the DURANS

were detalned, Herodoto No. 14, Dept. "A", houne of the brother-in-law

of Silvia DURAN, Ruben DURAN Navarro, the persons that were vislting

this home were detained; thelr antecedenta follow:

13. Ruben DURAN Navarro stated he ls originally from Los Angeles,

California, married to Betty SERRATOS, 38 years old, awaiting Mexican

citizenship. His job is a decorator and is employed with his brother

Horacio DURAN Navarro in an office that the latter has at Veracruz Street

---

## Page 9

13-00000

No. 42, Mexico City, Telephone 14-10-31. In 1960, he vlalted Cuba where

he remaled for two days and later went to Petersburg, Florida where he

got a job as a decorator. Approximately one year ago, he vinited an art

exposition at Tollo Street, No. 63, la Mexico Clty, He lo a filend of

General Jose De Jess Clark FLORES, for whom he has done decorating

Jobs In Ijuana, Lower Calliomis and with whom he went on hie trip to

Russla last yoar, saying for noven days in that country. His monthly

Income fluctuates between 5000. 00 and 6000. 00 pesos.

With respect to

bla presence at Herodoto Street No. Ii. Dept. 1, he indicated that he lived

in that place with his wlie. Besides the presence of Silva Tirado De

DUR AN and Forcio DURAN Navarro in hia homs, he stated that his wife

le a frlend of the other persons and today they were only visiting them.

He stated that he does not know Ice Harvey OSWALD, the accused

assassin of the President af the Unlted States.

14. Betty Serratos de DURAN espressed that she la originally from

Honduras and has been In Marico for ten years, having the status of a

resident Inmigrant. She la 13 years old and has attended & secretarial

course in Kentucky, U,S. A. She does not belong to any political party nor

does the bave leftist Ideas. With respect to her presence at Herodoto St.

No. 14-7, she stated that the lives there with her husband Ruben DURAN

Navarto. Fimily, she stated that she does not know Lee Harvey OSWALD,

accused assassin of the President of the United States.

15. Lidia DURAN Navarso Vca De Flores stated she le originally

from Chihuahua, Chibuhua; sho is 39 years old, lves at Lus Savinon St.

No. Wit, and work at the Tourlat Departnent and at the Mexican

Sports Confederation, She Indicated she la not militant In any political

party nor has any determined ideology. With respect to her presenco at

Horodoto St. No. 147, the stated that she was visiting her brother and

her nister-in-law. Ruben DURAN Navarro and Betty SERRATOS, who live

Is that Departzent.

16, Agata Roseno GARCIA "tated she la originally from this

capital (Mexico City). Her home la at Elvera St. No. 63, Colonia Las

Agullas, Mexico Clty, Telephone No. 48-53-53; that she studled

dramatic art with Seki Sano, Lula Del Llano and Andrea Soler and said she

has portrayod secondary roles in the moviés and acted as alrector of

Teatro Infantil. Llkewise she stated she la not militant nor has ever been

in political partles nor does she have a leftlat ideology. With respect to

her presenco at Herodoto St. No: 14-7, she stated that it la due to her

friendahlp with Ruben DURAN Navarro and his wife Betty SERRATOS and

that she vislte them frequently as occurred on thia date. She sald she did

201-259248

---

## Page 10

13-00000

not know Lee Harvey OSWALD accused assassla of the President of the

United States of North America.

17. Barbara Ann BLISS stated that she has been a tourist for

olght years, having renewed her documentation five months ago; her

home is at Bahia De Magdalena No. 125, Telephone No. 45-13-41 fo5

which she paya a monthly rent of 1500. 00 pesos. She la divorced and

recalved 800. 00 dollars monthly from a company In Washington

which administers her father's estate and of which the holds the stock.

She ald she has been marrled to Juan Esquirel, Costa Rican, whose

mother was Mexican and who presently resides in the Unlted States.

She lived In Cuba for three years alnce her father. Alonso BLISS.

was the owner of a sugar plantation in Trinidad and the last time she

was In Cuba was three yeare ago, but only in tranait on a trlp to Mlami,

Florida.

18, She stated she maintains correspondence with a Cuban who

sends ber Information which she passes to her father. With respect

to her father, she sald that he has been in Mexico for two weeks,

staylag at the Hotol Park Villa, 5. A., located at Gomer Pedraza St.

No. 62, Mexico City, in which he has stayed for ten days. His home

Is at 2585 South Bachore Drive, Coconut Grove, Miami, Florida: he

Cash be brice!

does not belong to any group nor has any relations with the Cubane.

19. Regarding her presence at Herodoto St. No. 14-7, she la-

dicated thie arose from three monthe ago, in the here of Carmen PINO.

She roet Betty SERRATOS, with whom she has a friendship and has

visited in Betty's home on four other occaslons even though Botty her-

self vials her frequently because both are interested in hearing mualcal

records. She also stated she met Silvla Tirado De DURAN at a concert

but la not her frtend. Finally, the sald she does not know Lee Harvey

OSWALD, accused annansin of the President of the United States.

20. Charles E. BENTLEY atatod he la a touriat. 27 years old.

has been in the country for three months and is living at Palermo St.

No. 9, Colonla Hipodromo, Mexico Clty, and that he le employed by

Campania Canadera De Sonora. In the Unlted States he worked in

Minneapolla as an assistant manager of business and from 1954 to 1957

served in the U.S. Navy, He Indicated that he does not belong to any

political party nor does he profess leftist lleas.. He asserted that he

does not know Lce Harvey OSWALD, accused assassin of the Presldent

of the United States and that he learned of the death from the News-

paper. He declared he does not have any connections with the Cubans

and indicated that if he soon did not find employment in Mexico, he would

- 6-

---

## Page 11

13-00000

leave the country, since the money he has and that which he has in

savings la Minneapolis, la diminishing.

21. With respect to hls presence at Herofoto St. No. 14-7, he

Indicated that he la a irlend of Barbara Am BLISS and Betty SERRATOS.

Their frlendship began two months ago at the Restaurante Rigus,

through the "Baterista". (an li text) Tino Conteras and that was why

he was vialting those people.

-T- ES COPY

201-289245

---

## Page 12

13-00000

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1992

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

TRANSIATION

SERRE MICROFI...ED

AUti % & 1965

DOC. MICRO. SER.

4p

RESULTS OF THE INEERROGATION OF SILVIA TIRADO DE DURAN (SULVIA DURANT) ON

THE MORNTIG OF 28 NOVIBER 1963

to She mid that she Inew Carlos LECHUdA Hevle who vas Cabar

Ambassador in Mexico and who arrived here then the was vorking a

Coordinator In the Menionn inn Innitute of Cultural Relationa, She

became friendly with this person but she never did any perional vork

for him.

She and that this Ambasando, came to her house to vialt

her on the occunion of a party which me held. She connider hi as

• Ilend and she naw him tremently She said that be came to be

Triendly with her husband, but that she bad seen him nore frequently.

Upon being nated if she ler CArlos SOLES, Thoms I. 808S,

Richard J. ARAIDA, Ery Ine ZAFE and Ennon DIntOs B4L0000, mhe

ansvered that neither did she lnow then nor had she hoard speak of

then except for the last one, when she does not know but does know of

him and of the activities to nich he 1a dedloated. Neither does she

she auld that while she was working in the formentloned

Institute, and before sorting as i secretary in the Consulate she vet

to the Cuban Embassy to help Teresa PROFIZA. The help she rendered

there constated of anering the telephones and doing secondary tanka.

The Cultural Attache FROlIZA never anaigned her any vort outside the

Embassy.

She suld that whe had Juan PROBIZA before she had been coor-

dister for the Intitute since she ma a good intend of FaLl, FLORES

Guerrero, the haband of DURAN's alter in law, wao died about three

and & half years ago. It me through FLORES that DURAN met PROFIZA.

She maid that the In-law refered to was i teacher and a writer.

4, She stuted that the has und her prement ideology for about

fIve yer, and that it to based on convlotton and studies. the

mate she hid not belonged nor does she belong to any student groups.

5. DUBAN Indicated the was acquainted with the Leninist Spartacua

League (Ilga, Lentniste Espartaco) but that she is not In agreement with

It, and that her husband shares her opiaton. They anise Jose REVUELIAS

#

ATT-2 T6: XAAZ-22>59

&S COPY

SEGRET

21 Zeh'14

GROUP

Excluded son milematic

commigrading and

dsclassification

741-759748

---

## Page 13

13-00000

as a writer but not as a politieian since they are in disagreement with

Party (Partido Comnista Mericano, PCH) valle 1t lo Obvdous that this

party does indeed extut, although it 10 direrganized. She said that she

had, not belonged to this orgualsation but that she le frlendly with 1te

Lenders such as JOSe REVUELTAS and the tro LIZALDES.

6. She disclaimed memberahip in the PCH, and snid she had not

tried to join it bechuse the was in diangreement with 1t except for 1te

support of cuba.

7. DURAN went on to say that her beginning salary in the Consul-

ate was $1,500 (Mexican pesos) per month, and ale contimes to receire

thila anount. She sald she has no other inoone nor does she receive

any overtime pay or contaatons because in Cuba this 18 callod voluntary

work and le not remmerted. When she explained her problen to the

Ambassador-thit she had been arrested he indtonted to her that he

did not belleve that it vould be necessary for hin to intervene but

he told her that he vould make a protest. She auld when the vas

arrested, the Cuben Consulate never gave her any other kind of hely

nor did they offer to have her go to Cuba or become & Cuban dittzen

because it has alwys been vell establlahed that the and her husband

are Mexicans and they have not wanted to so to Cube. On one occaston

when it vas leared that her hushend was a designer, and aletched an

ides for the construction of a school in Cuba, they anked him to go and

do 1t or desten 1t. He did not accept because he 1s first and foremost

a Nexican.

8. She sold that the Cuban Inntitute of Iriendship with Peoples

(Instituto Cubano de Antstad can los Pueblos, ICAP) 1e e evordinating

Institution wherets are concentrated the Invitations mde by diverse

groupe who pay expenses of the gueste through ICAP. Those lnvited to

Cuba by ICAP are not necessarily young people She 10 grateful to

that tastitution besune she recaired good treatment and was very

plessed when she went to Cuba. She has not kept in touch with the

Institution nor does the have any more to do with it. She amnot

Iaollitate travel for other perso as she Incha contset with the

Cubang. *

The vias wiich are requested by. ICAP are procesned

airectly by the Imbany as la done with all of those twited to

Cuba. Inta type of courtesy or special viens do not go through

the Consulate. The Conunte 1s limited to denling With pald visas.

She has no contact with anyone in the Sovlet Embassy and has been

there only twices once for the reception for TERESKOVA and CAGARIN!

*Translator'a footnote: Ibe meantag of this phrase 18 not at all clear.

-2-

---

## Page 14

13-00000

and again for the last anniversary of the revolution of the USSR.

On the Intter ocension she went because the Consul did not have a

car and ho asted ber to go with hia,

She stayed only 20 mimtes.

9, DURAN added that she does know Marla Delores de lA MORA

who mat be about 27 years old and 18 a nepeper wann. She net

her in the can Emanny on the occaston of the october arials, and

mhe has only seen her tro or three times since. DURAN described

I. MORA as very nice and e person with uhon the struck up a matur

attraction fron the moment they net.

She saw her once in the Moleo

Cube Institute and has couversed with her sons. DURAT has not been

tO IN MORA 'e house not be she been to DURAN'D, but they have seen one

another in the Connlate, DURAI Inown that In MOBA belonge to an

aristocratio family, 1n not renationary, and that she does not go

to the Embany very meh. At lest, DURAH has not seen her there.

According tO DURAl, the Is pretty.

10. DiRAll stated that the inows Intes CALDEROl, the secretery

to the Commercial Delegation In the Cuban Embassy who was alrendy

wong there then DURAN began to work in the Consulate. CALMEROY

1s unmariled and DURAN conalders her a Intend although they see one

another infrequently. She la s white person, about 22 or 23 years old,

and DURAll does not know exactly what her vort Involved. She my be

First, Second or Third Secretary of the Comerical Delegation.

She Jives With her mother. Two weeka ago she went to Cuba because

11. In numer to spostal questions, DURAN said that only she and

the Connil are in the Consulate.

She sald that the firat time that Lee

Farvey OSATD wis In the Consulate In the morning, to roguest informa-

tion about getting to Caba, she did not oberve him very vell.

the afternoon, hovever, when he had the argment with the Consul, she

did observe hin closely and In ture that he wis not wearing classes.

1. mere in no rei-headed negro of that description in the

Embanay. Intely, no ner person his arrived at the Embassy.

she bas me no turner canete wita carlos mild by mall

y telegen or through any thind persor

It, Wher she spole with the Ambesnador about her aireat, no

Insination vas ade to her that she might be taken to Cuba, and she

reiterates that she lnova no one fron the Soviet Embassy.

she said the following regarding her trip to Cuba where she

mpent two weets with ber huaband.

a. During the last days of lovember 1961, I vent uninvited

to cuba and paid my own expenses.

OCORET

---

## Page 15

13-00000

SECRET

XAAZ-227591

21 Feb <4:

Upon arriving on Cubans Al-lines 1s Habana, I went

to the Hotal Victoria where I pald for my lodging-

on the

second day of my stay in labans, I met Benor NAZOTA, the

Director of ICAP, for whom I vas arryng a letter of

Introduction from Ambasador FORIUO:D0.

In the letter he

recarmended my husband and me in order that ve might have

an Invitation to stay at the laber Riviers Hotel, whieh

1s the hotel for the gueste of the ICAP, and there ve took

& TO0

c. Three days after my sirival, my husband arrived In

Fabans. We had agreed to trivel partely for fear of nome

aerial acoldent, In which case our fantly vould not be left

completely helpless.

We were invited to travel through the cente Province

with a Brazilian lady mned ANTOITA, the vife of the painter

Elbio ROMKRO; and an African whose mme I do not Inor.

Ible

trip was by the direct invitation ol Fezmando RIVUKLIAS, Manager

of the Prena Latina. In Pinar de. Alo we veat vite hin to

visit bis daugater Albite REVUELIAS.

e. In the "House of the American" (Casa de las Americaa)

we were attended by ira. Marla ILBYSICA and Senor Mariano

RODRIGUES, a painter, after ve had traveled from Habana to

Santiago de Cube by car and visited the Intermediate points.

We also visited Mnzentllo and the School Center, "Camilo

Cienfuegos", unich lles at the foot of the Sierra Maestre.

He were in folguin, where ve visited the people's tarne,

and ve returned to santlago were ve boarded & passenger

Diane for Habate.

I. In the capital, ve viaited anont all of the

achools for art Inatructors, and we vere attended by

personnel of the flouse of the Americas, who have been

mentioned.

8. The vile of the writer, Alejo CARPANTIER (correct

spelling 18 CARPKNIER), at our request, toak us for a

courtesy visit to Ambassador BOBQUES.

h. In Varadero, se spent a day with the poet Pablo

ARMANDO Fernandez.

In Pinar del Rio, at the Mines of

We made the roturn trip separately. My husband left

on friday, 'and I loft on the following Monday.

CS COPY

201-259248

---

