oe paieceiereters nical Gieeaiteee
' RBTURNTO CIA

Background Use Only
* Do Noi Reproduce

fy.
io { SECRET" é eee
[ees its pgasria

ths
@

8 ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET /1221 02419 a
INSTRUCTIONS: Tw seivt deuststaee tthe “TO” aman Maat nuh tome te caeranl wilh de tutes othe “TO seem
ete Esch eee gorge octet renga dn eaten atrende rattan areca aia
“ RIAN
a | ROOM
to 1S
i WEP 10°51 NOTE: it » copy w wtectewsss wiv reaared from the oe
tached document, aote the keoanva of the copy and/at attach a
- 2 i
EL _|
peg lr LE -Yow |,
ACE
MICROFILMED
: AUG 27 1939
i DOC. MICRO. SER,
i
iu FILE TITLE
i GEOLUD Gargery Ye.
: Fice NUMBER ia
| uy
i
‘RIFT | a
Woe'S 610a SECRET ‘


va

Been Wea See Rea
TO Chief, +E DATE 12 teri 1957
ROM Chier of es :
q " MIGROFILMCD
w snot { PPSR“TIONS. e
Sovdwt Consul Grigory Yo, OOLB AUG 2 1999

Doc. micro, SER.

1. Ata Consular Corps lunch on 10. april 1957] cca
mde the following comuonts about hinself to “satts4rAs-RI,
Cotuntian Sens, ho
t a. He wes a Colonel in the Soviet Army during the
i war and stw action in Leningrad inl Moscow. He was wounded
B six tines during the war.

b. Helsinki te his first foreig assignment, He
speaks only Russian and Finnish,

De. NN ove Note that COWS had told Professor)
az OFHA}2413, para 7) tit he hed served in Vienna,
j farasu, Budapest, Bucha:est cad Sophia, It is possiile th:t
: ho meent his “firet foreign uasignnent! outside the Sdvict Bloc
(4f he had served in Vienna during the occupstion) or that this
wus a deliberate attenpt to confuse.

: Clie PB Wellman

Oliver >, Wallmark

21 April. 1957

Distribution:

|

ol

/ senses S1-28A ; wage eA SOIEG

