# 104-10132-10126

## Page 1

104-10132-10126

TO

1

SENDER WILL CHECK CLAS.

CATION TOP AND BOTTOM

UNCLASSIFIED CONFIDENTIAL

SECRET

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP

i MAME AND ADDRESS +

INITIALS

ME. WINTERS

SR.S

12-3-63 841K

Soften

ACTION

APPROVAL

COMMENT

CONCURRENCE

DIRECT REPLY

DISPATCH

FILE

INFORMATION

PREPARE REPLY

RECOMMENDATION

RETURN

SIGNATURE

Remarks:

Captain Donovan had been contacted at

Andrews A.F.B. by Jerry O'Leary, also a Marine

Reservist, on the afternoon of Sunday, I December

1903. Hre Solle, SRS, was verbally Intormed of

this contact by NSO Moretti at 0900 hourg on

2 December 1963.

*O'Long is a Star Staff winter

пBз.

FOLD HERE TO RETURN TO SENDER

FROM: NAME, ADDRESS AND PHONE NO.

Secdule Branch

CONFIDENTIAL

DATE

UNCLASSIFIED

Use previous editions

3Dec63

SECRET

(40)

• U.S. GOVERMMENT PRINTS ONES

CH: 1961 0 587282•

DO NOT REPRODUCE

RETURN TO CIA

---

## Page 2

14-00000

TO

1

SENDER WILL CHECK CLASSI

ATION TOP AND BOTTOM

UNCLASSIFIED

CUNFIDENTIAL

SECRET

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP

NAME AND ADDRESS

NITIALS

Hro Winterg

6

ACTION

APPROVAL

COMMENT

CONCURRENCE

DIRECT. REPLY

*3

DISPATCH

FILE

INFORMATION

Remarks:

Story like n

63I lu En

alal

PREPARE REPLY 2

RECOMMENDATION

RETURN SEC

SIGN/

ATURE

Chief, Building security. Branch

UNCLASSIFIED

*: CONFIDENTIAL

SECRET

4:-3-60

19-610 237

Use previous editions

• (40)

CLEAN POPC: 19010-307282

---

## Page 3

14-00000

---

## Page 4

CONFIDENTIAL

When Fulled In)

FROM:

INCIDENT REPORT

BUILDING SECURITY BRANCH

DATE _ 1 December 1963

TIME -

1030

NAME -

John E. Donovan

2009 Belmont Rd. N. Wo

Washington %, Do Co

INCIDENT Telephone call

- GRADE NA

Tele: 332-7717

TIME 0937

OFFICE _

N/A

PLACE Washington, Do Co

SUMMARY OF INFORMATION: Donovan called to report that he new and worked with

Lee Harvey Oswald for a nine nonth period while fulfilling his military

obligation in the Spring, Sunmer and Fall of 1959. Donovan advised he may

possibly be of assistance in providing names and ete. of Oswalds intimate

acquaintances during that period. subject further advised that he has not

discussed his knowledge of Oswald with the FBI or the Secret Service as of this

Donovan is presently attending Georgetown University while teaching at

Ascension Academy•

He may be contacted any evening after 6:00 P.M. at the

above address. Donovan related that he is a former FBI employee having worked

there Irom June 1953 to 1956. It is also noted that advance knowledge of this

call was received from NSO John Moretti and Major A. F. Boland, Ageney employees,

who are both members of Capt. John E. Donovan's USMCR unit.

ACTION TAKEN:

Contacted Charlie Kane, OS, who requested that this report

be prepared and submitted so that the lead may be turned

over to the FBI through official channels.

Document Number 1260-1033

for FOlA Review on FEB. 1977

03

REPORTING OFFICER

DISTRIBUTION:

ORIG: DD/SEC (PPS), DD/SEC, OR D/S

COPY: EAB/PD

FILE: BSB/PHYS. SD

1 cy C/SRS

1-81* 1798

-61

CONFIDENTIAL

(90)

---

