# 104-10219-10075

## Page 1

104-10219-10075

PERSON/LAIT NUTIPIED.

STAFF

ADYANEL F8PT LASHER MIDTIER

ACTEON LIBIT

c/sE5

Aft FILE.

ACTIONE

VR

C/EURL...

т 177686

ELA370

- PLAN

PAGE 61

clesle62 closeli. €/028.

TOR12215142 JUL 75

42212

SECRE T 2211J6Z JUL 95 STAFF

42212 SECTION 1 OF 2

CITE

908 DIRECTOR,

RYBAT CKTOP POSEEK.

1. SUBJECT IS RUDOLF SHEPTELEVICH TENENBAUM

(SECOND LETTER IS EX• DOB 16 APRIL 1938. LENINGRAD. INS

NUMBER A Z0 846 165. ENGLISH LANGUAGE TEACHER AND TECMNICAL

TRANSLATOR, ASSÉSSED/DEBRIEFED BY SCOPES 10 AND 21 JULY FOR

INFO ON HIS TEACHING ACTIVITIES AT LENINGRAD INSTITUTE OF

MARTINS

NUCLEAR PHYSICS, ALSO ON ATTEMPTED RECRUITMENT BY KGB AS

INFORMER.

2. SUBJECT TOOK SECONDARY EDUCATOR IN LENINGRAD 1945=52.

FROM 1952 TO 56

HE STUDIED A? LENINGRAD AVIATION EGUIPMENT.

CARIAPRIBORSTROYENIED TEKHNIKUM IN LENINGRAD, EARNED DIPLOMA

AS ELECTROTECHNICIAN, FROM 1956-57 WORKED PRIMARILY AS TRANSO

LATOR AT SPECIAL DESIGN BUREAU COSOBOYE KONSTRUKTORSKOYE

BYUROS NUMBER 857 ON ULITSA SKOROKHODOVA NEAR GORKIY PROSPERT

IN LENINGRAD. ORGANIZATION HAS INVOLVED IN FIRST DESIGNS OF

AIRPLANE AUTOMATIC PILOTS FOR CIVILIAN AIRCRAFT USE•

SUBJECT CALLED UP FOR MILITARY SERVICE IN 1957, ASSIGNED

"**'

SECRET

4,203

---

## Page 2

4-00001

CABLE BIC DIESEN AN

PERSON /UNIT NOTIFIEO

ACTION. UNIT

0.6 ratie

SECRET

HUN aY

#ENRODUCTION

ISSUING OFFICE Is

PROMISITEE

AT

STAFF

RF.

FILE

VA

ACTION A

9 147626

ELA378

PAGE 82

TOR12215142 JUL 75

TO ARMY CONSTRUCTION BATTALION (STROYBATY AT STANISIA OLENIYA

NEAR OLENEGORSK, SOUTH OF MURMANSK, UNIT WAS ENGAGED IN CON

STRUCTION OF FIGHTER AIRPORT WHICH SUBJECT BELIEVES WAS IN

ACTIVATED SEVERAL YEARS LATER, SUBJECT WORKED FOR A SHORT TIME

BUILDING CONCRETE PARTITIONS IN AN UNDERGROUND

_ COMMO

CENTER

WHERE CONSTRUGTION WAS BEING STARTED, AFTER ONLY THREE MONTHS

NE MAS TRANSFERRED TO A CONSTRUCTION BATTALION LOCATED 3A KM

EAST 1?8 OF STANTSIA PLESETSKAYA, SOUTH OF ARKHANGELSK.

BATTALION WAS CONSTRUCTING A MISSILE BASE, SUBJECT WAS A

PRIVATED WORKING MAINLY AS PAY ROLL CLERK FOR UNITS BUILDING

BARRACKS, MESS FACILITIES AND SUPPORT STRUCTURES, HE NEVER

SAW THE MISSILE SILOS, BUT RUMOR WAS THAT THEY WERE "VERY

DEEP®* NOT KNOW WHETHER SILOS WERE FOR, SAM OR STRATEGIC

MISSILES, SUBJECT'S MEMORY OF THIS ACTIVITY IS LIMITED. AND HE

IN 639171

42212

DOES NOT RECALL. ANY OF THE SEVERAL VICH NUMBERS TO WHICH HE

MAS ASSIGNED DURING HIS SERVICEA WHICH TERMINATED IN 1962.

LATER, APPROX 1970, SUBJECT NAS CHOSEN ALONG WITH OTHER INDI

VIDUALS WITH MIGNER EDUCATION FOR DIRECT RESERVE COMMISSION

•TECHNICIAN LIEUTENANT, IN SOVIET AIR FORCE. DESPITE THE

SECRE

---

## Page 3

CADLE GIC DIOGEN O

PEA

PERSON/UMIT NOTIFIED

ADYANEL GOEY ISSUED'GLOTTIO

ACTION UNIT

RF.

FILE.

TOTAL COPIES

SECRET

RAFRODUCTION DY OTHER THAN

"E$LING OFFICE IB PROHIBITEN

VA

STAFF

2.

ACTION#

т 177606

E1 A370

PAGE. B3

TOR1221514Z JUL 75

FACT THAT HE HAD HAD NO RESERVE TRAINING IN HIS INSTITUTE.

WHICH LACKED A MILITARY "KAFEDRA," HE ATTENDED RESERVE

TRAINING SESSIONS AT AN AIRPORT IN THE SIVERSKAYA REGION

CLOSE TO LENINGRAD. WHERE MIG-18 FIGHTER PLANES WERE BASED.

• ICOMMENTO ABOVE IS SUMMARY SUBJECT'S MILITARY SERVICE, WITH

DO! OF 1957-68 AND VERY LITTLE DETAIL RECALLED, SEE NO POINT

IN SURFACING SUBJECT AS PROSPECTIVE PI SOURCE TO MILITARY

SERVICES AT THIS TIME.

A, UPON DISCHARGE IN 1968SUBJECT ENROLLED AS EVENING

: STUDENT AT LENINGRAD PEDAGOGICAL INSTITUTE IMENI GERTSENA

AND CONTINUED WIS FOREIGN LANGUAGE STUDIES, WHICH KE HAD

1 EARLIER BEGUN IN LEISURE TIME, SPECIALIZED IN ENGLISH, GERMAN.

FRENCH, TOOK DEGREE IN 1965 AS ENGLISA TEACHER, DURING THIS

FIVE YEAR PERIOD SUBJECT WORKED AS TECHNICAL TRANSLATOR. HIS

FIRST JOB 81960-618 BEING AT DESIGN BUREAU 857 WHERE HE HAD

PREVIOUSLY WORKED, ME WAS NOW ENGAGED IN TRANSLATION OF UN-

CLASSIFIED FOREIGN TECHNIGAL ARTICLES IN THE ELECTRONICS

FIELD. IN 1961 WE TOOK A BETTER PAYING JOB AS TECHNICAL

TRANSLATOR AT LENINGRAD ZAVOD SVERDLOVA, AN "OPEN" MACHINE

TOOL CONSTRUCTION PLANT

FRODUCING PRIMARILY LATHES AND

SECRET

IN 639171

42212

---

## Page 4

CABLE SEC DISEEN AY...

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

mARYANCE COPY ISSWER ELOTYED

ACTION UNIT

RF. FILE

BY

.. TOTAL COPIES

SECR

ET

WAY

RUN EY

MEPICDUCTION IT OTTLE THAN

INBURNS OFFICE IE PICNITED

STAFF

VR

ACTION #

177636

ELA370

PAGE 24

TOR1221514Z JUL 75

IN 639171

42212

RELATED EQUIPMENT, WHERE HE TRANSLATED FOREIGN TECHNICAL

ARTICLES ON THESE SUBJECTS• IN 1962 HE MOVED ON TO A JOB AT

THE LENINGRAD COMMERCIAL PORT, WHERE HE MOPED TO DO INTI

PRETING WORK WITH FOREIGN SHIP CAPTAINS, BUT FOUND THAT

MOST OF HIS ACTIVITY WAS IN TRANSLATION OF SHIPPING DOCUMENTS.

5, IN 1963 SUBJECT BEGAN TO TEACH ENGLISH TO SCHOOL AGE

CHILDREN, HE MET PROFESSOR NINA ALEKSANDROUNA I I KHA

DOB 1910. WELL KNOWN ANTHROPOLOGIST: AND PSYCHOLOGIST.

AND BEGAN GIVING LESSONS TO HER GRANDSON, WITH HELP OF TIKH

HE WAS THEN ENGAGED AT PAVLOV INSTITUTE OF PHYSICLOGY AT

KOLTUSHI (NEAR LENINGRADI AND TAUGHT SOME ADULT CLASSES THERE,

WHILE CONDUCTING PRIVATE LESSONS FOR CHILDREN OF THE STAFF

MEMBERS AT THEIR HOUSES, DURING THIS PERIOD HE DEVELOPED HIS

OWN SYSTEM OF TEACHING CONVERSATIONAL ENGLISH USING CARTOON

TYPE SYMBOLS, FROM 1967 TO 68 SUBJECT WAS ENGAGED FOR WORKO

BOOK PURPOSES AS ENGLISH LANGUAGE TEACHER AT SECONDARY

SCHOOL IN VSEVOLOZHK (NEAR LENINGRADI AND ACTUALLY TAUGHT

THERE ONCE A WEEK WHILE CONTINUING HIS PRIVATE LESSONS AT

,"i

l.":

KOLTUSHI,

SECRET

---

## Page 5

CABLE BEC DISARM BY

PERSON/UNIT MOTIFIED.

ARYANGE COPY LASHER'FASTIER

ACTION UNIT

AF.

FILE.

N

"STAL COPIES

SECRET

RUM BY

RIPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN

ISSUING OFFICE I PROMIBITED

STAFF

VR .

ACTION *

T 177686

E1A370

• PAGE 05

TOR1221514Z JUL 75

6, FROM 1968 TO 75 SUBJECT WAS EMPLOYED AS ENGLISH TEACHER

AT THE IASTITUTE OF NUCLEAR PHYSICS (YADERNOY FISIKID AT

GATCHINA, APPROX 45 KM SOUTH OF LENINGRAD, THIS CAME ABOUT

WHEN SOME OF THE PHYSIOLOGY LABORATORIES OF THE PAVLOV INSTI

TUTE WERE TRANSFERPED TO GATCHINA TO BECOME PART OF THE

NUCLEAR PHYSICS INSTITUTE, WHICH HAPPENED AT THAT TIME TO BE

SEARCHING FOR A TEACHER OF ENGLISH CONVERSATIONA SUBJECT

WORKED THERE FIRST AS PRIVATE TEACHER, THEN WAS FORMALLY

"TRANSFERRED" FROM HIS SECONDARY SCHOOL JOB IN VSEVOLOZHSK.

DIRECTOR OF NUCLEAR PHYSICS INSTITUTE WAS PROFESSOR OLEG

.. IGOROVICH SUMBAYEV, WHO TOOK SOME LESSONS FROM SUBJECT AND

LATER GAVE HIM A WRITTEN COMMENDATION, ASSISTANT DIRECTOR

WAS DAVID MOYSEYEVICH KAMINKER, JEWISH. SUBJECT MET AND

TAUGHT SOME 150 SCIENTIFIC WORKERS HERE DURING HIS TENURE.

SOME INDIVIQUALLY, SOME IN GROUPS, SOME OF THESE SNOT TOO

MANYA TRAVELLED ABROAD, SUBJECT BELIEVES HE CAN RECALL

APPROX JO-GO NAMES AND HAS PROMISED TO BRING A LIST TO NEXT

MEETING WITH SCOPES SCHEDULED FOR 29 JULY.

7, APPROX: 1972 SUBJECT BEGAN GIVING PRIVATE ENGLISH

LANGUAGE LESSONS TO PROSPECTIVE JEWISH EMIGRANTS IN LENIN

SECRET

IN 639171

42212

---

## Page 6

CABLE BEC DISSEN BY

_fER

PERSON/UNIT MOTIFIED

ADVANCE COPY ISIVIRISOTTER

¡ACTION WAIT

RF.

FILE.

TOTAL COPIES

SECRET

RUN BY

HEFRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN

DARUINE OFFICE IN PROMISITED

AL

STAFF

VR

ACTION A

177606

EIA370

PAGE 26-LA

TOR82215142 JUL 75

GRADA TRAVELLING THERE FOR A SATURDAY-SUNDAY SCHEDULE EVERY

WEEK AND TEACHING AT PUPILIS APARTMENTS, PHIS LATER

BROADENED TO THE POINT WHERE HE MAD 4O-50 JEWISH PUPLIS

IN FOUR OR FIVE GROUPS. SUBJECT STAYED OVERNIGHT WITH HIS

FATHER. A PENSIONER, WIDOWED AND REMARRIED. WHO STILL RESIDES

'IN LENINGRAD,

8. KGB RECRUITMENT ATTEMPTS! IN APPROX MAY 1973 SUBJECT

• HAS-SUMMONED TO THE MILITIA POST IN GATCHINA KHAKE HE WAS

-TAKEN TO THE KGB OFFICE FOR A MEETING WITH THE LOCAL

"OPERUPOLNOMOCHENNYY, THIS WAS VALENTIN BORISOVICH

KUPRYANOV SKID WHOM SUBJECT RECOGNIZED SINCE HE LIVED

IN 639171

42212

l42d4220430

SECRET

'st a pirate

---

## Page 7

CABLT GEC DISSEN Y

FIRBON/UNIT SCOTIFIED

TOTAL COPIES

• SECRET

FUN BY

P""HCEACTION BY OTHER THAN

STAFF

ACTION UNIT

RF. FILE

VR

177632

E1A397

PAGE R$2

TOR12215262 JUL 75

SECRET 221136₴ JUL 75 STAFF

..CITE ROME 42212 FINAL SECTION OF 2

TOS DIRECTOR.

RYBAT CRYOP POSEEK

OPPOSITE SUBJECT'S APARTMENT IN GATCHINA. SUBJECT LIVED

AT ULITSA KURGETOVA 25 APT 30A KUPRYANOV ON SAME STREET;

HOUSE NUMBER 240 APARTMENT 29 OR J0, ON ATH FLOOR,

KUPRYANOV DOB APPROX 1930. UKRAINIAN ACCENT, HEIGHT 182 CM,

SLENDER BUILD, BROWN EYES, LONG NOSE. HIGH MONGOLIANOTYPE

CHEEK BONES, HANDSOME, MARRIED, ONE DAUGHTER AGED APPROX 10.

.M, TOLD SUBJECT THAT HIS TEACHING OF PROSPECTIVE JEWISH

•EMIGRANTS IN LENINGRAD HAD COME TO KGB ATTENTION ISUBJECT

..'STATES THAT THE AGTIVITY HAS COMPLETELY OPEN WITH NO ATTEMPTS

•TO CONCEAL ITD. K•SPOKE AT LENGTH ON THE EVILS OF ZIONISM,

• INDICATING THAT THE KGB WAS SEARCHING FOR THE PEOPLE BEHIND

•THE SCENES NHO WERE INSTIGATING THE JEWISH EXODOS FROM THE

USSRO HE WANTED SUBJECT TO HELP KGB IN ITS EFFORTS TO

UNMASK THE ZIONIST PLOT BY REPORTING ON THE JEWS WHOM HE WAS

TEACHING. ALSO TO REPORT ON HIS STUDENTS AT THE INSTITUTE.

ENTIRE PITCH WAS AT MIGH LEVEL. K. SPEAKING APPARENTLY

SECRET

IN 639163

42212

COLTA

• series.

---

## Page 8

to 57343773-37S

ingra, mart of

CABLE SEC DISSE

A 2Y

PENNON /WHIT NOTIFIED

ADVASITE SOPY LESUED FLOITER

ACTICIN UNIT

RF.

FILE

N

TOTAL COPIES

SECRET

RUN BY

WIFHODUCTION BY OTHER THAN

SUTUSNG OFFICE I EAONINITED

STAFF

RY

9 177632

ELA397

PAGE 028

TORI 2215262 JUL 75

FRANKLY ABOUT SOVIET SOCIETY, RECOGNIZING ITS WEAKNESS. BUT

CONCLUDING THAT SOCIETY WAS ON PATH TOWARDS IMPROVEMENT.

SUBJECT REFUSED THE PITCH STATING HE KNEW OF NOTHING TO

REPORT, WAS NOT THE INFORMER TYPE: COULD NOT SQUARE IT WITH

HIS CONSCIENCE, ETC. AT CLOSE OF SESSION K. STATED THAT

THEY WOULD TALK ABOUT IT AGAIN AND THAT HE FELT SURE SUBJECT

WOULD FINALLY ACCEPT. K. ASKED HIM AT LEAST SIGN A

SECRECY AGREEMENT CONCERNING CONTENTS OF THEIR CONVERSATION.

DICTATED IT TO HIM, AND SUBJECT SIGNED WITH A KLICHKA, USING

HIS MOTHER'S MAICEN NAME,

: 9• SUBJECT SPENT A BAD NIGHT AND HAS DEEPLY DISTURBED

ALL THE FOLLOWING DAY BECAUSE HE HAD NOT BEEN MORE FORCEFUL.

IN MIS REFUSAL, AND PARTICULARLŸ BEGAUSE ME HAD SIGNED THE

SECRECY AGREEMENT, WHICH HE NOW FEARED COULD BE USED AS A

HANDLE AGAINST HIM. EARLY THE FOLLOWING MORNING SUBJECT WENT

TO K'S APARTMENT AND TOLD MIM FORCEFULLY THAT HE COULD NEVER

• ACCEPT RECRUITMENT, KE. TRIED TO CALM MIM, ASKED HIM TO

COME TO HIS OFFICE THE SAME EVENING. SUBJECT COMPLIED, FOUND

THERE A SECOND KGB OFFICER (NAME UNKNONNDO WHO SUBJECT LATER

LEARNED WAS: REPUTED TO BE LENINGRAD. CASE-OFFICER INVOLVED

SECRET

IN 639185

71

42212

---

## Page 9

CABLESAL DISGTH BOT

IPEROON/UNIT NOTIFIED

ARLANCA LOPY LASHER'ELOTTER

ACTION URIT

RF.

FILE.

• DIAL COPIES

"SECRET

RUN BY

STAFF

VR

ACTION*

T 177632

ELA3O7

PAGE 289

TOR 2215262. JUL 75

WITH JEWISH EMIGRANTS; SECOND KGB OFFICER. BROAD SHOLDERS.

HEAVY BUILD, LARGE LIGHT BLUE EYES, ROUND BALK MEADO VERY

AUTHORITIVE AIR. HE COMPLIMENTED SUBJECT ON HIS INTELLI

GENCE• TALKED TOHIM AT LENGTH KEEPING HAND ON SUBJECT'S

KNEE, PLEADED FOR COOPERATION. WAS CLEAR TO SUBJECT THAT HE

HAD COME SPECIALLY FROM LENINGRAD FOR THE PITCH, SUBJECT BY

THIS TIME HAD FIRMLY DECIDED AGAINST ANY TYPE OF COOPERATION

AND GAVE A FIRM REFUSAL.

10, ON THE FOLLOWING DAY. A SATURDAY, SUBJECT HAD HIS

REGULAR ENGLISH LANGUAGE CLASSES FOR FOUR GROUPS TOTALLING

APPROX AS MENS IN LENINGRAD.

SUBJECT DECIDED THAT THE BEST

MAY TO ENSURE THAT THE KGB WOULD NEVER BOTHER HIM. AGAIN WAS

TO OPENLY RECOUNT THE RECRUITMENT EFFORT TO ALL OF HIS PUPILS,

WMICH HE DID, INCLUDING DETAILS OF SEGRECY AGREEMENT.

11, SUBJECT HEARD NO MORE FROM THE KDB UNTIL APPROX FIVE

MONTHS LATER COCTOBER 197328 WHEN K. CALLED HIM AND ASKED

WHETHER ME HAD DECIDED TO EMIGRATE.

• HE REPLIED THAT HE WAS

INITIATING NECESSARY STEPS AND WOULD LEAVE IN ABOUT A YEAR,

IN INTERIM SUBJECT HAD IN FACT REQUESTED INVITATION EVYZOVS

FROM ISRAEL PHE ULTIMATELY RECEIVED THODÖ REALIZING THAT HE

SECRET

IN 639183°

$2212

---

## Page 10

14-00000

CABLE SEC DISEEM AT

PERSON/UAIT NOTIFIED

ARYALEE CAPT ISSUER FLATTER

ACTION UNIT

N

RF.

FILE

TOTAL COPILO

SECRET

AL8 $7

REPIODUCTION BY OTHER TAAA

ISGUING OFFICE IN PHONINTED

STAFF

BY

VA

• ACTION *

• 9 177632

EIA397

PAGE 8A 10

TOR: 221526Z JUL 75

IN 639187

71

42212

NAD NO ALTERNATIVE, SUBJECT BEGAN TO SAVE THE NECESSARY FUNDS

(APPROX 5200 RUBLESS REQUIRED FOR PURCHASE OF EXIT VISAS AND

OTHER EMIGRATION EXPENSES. DURING THE FOLLOWING YEAR WE ALS

CONTACTED BY K. SEVERAL TIMES EITHER BY TELEPHONE OR

FOR BRIEF MEETS, IN WHICH NO ASKED HIM GNLY HOW HIS EMIGRAS

9ION WAS PROCEEDING, AFTER ACCUMULATING NECESSARY FUNDS.

SUBJECT APPLIED FOR EXIT VISAS AT LENINGRAD OVIR IN EARLY

-FEBRUARY 1975, RECEIVED VISAS IN EARLY MAYI

Bilaridin

• 12.

ACQUAINTANCE WITH BERNON

MITCHELLE IN 1973 SUBJECT

• WAS SEARCHING FOR AN AMERICAN TO SPEAN TO SOME OF HIS STUDENT

•GROUPS AND WAS INTRODUCED TO BERNON MITCHELL 11960 NSA

DEFECTORD AT THE HOUSE OF A STUDENT IN LENINGRAD, SUBJECT

VISITED NITCHELL SEVERAL TIRES DURING ENSUING PERIOD PRIOR

TO HIS DEPARTURE, M. LIVES AT PROSPEKT RIMSKOGO-KORSAKOVA

NUMBER 16, APARTMENT 1. IN A LARGE PRTVATE MOUSÉ. "TELEPHONE

- ПолетУ

16-58-80.

HE IS MARRIED TO GALINA LNU, DEAN OF PIANO FACILITY

AT LENINGRAD CONVERSATORY, THEY HAVE NO CHILDREN, SUBJECT

STATES MO IS VERY USHAPPY RINKS A LOT, REGRETS HIS DEFECTIONA

HOULD LIKE TO RETURN TO UOS. OR ORMTER ENGLISH-SPEAKING COUNTRY.

Mo RECEIVES "PENS:ON" OF APPROX: 588 RUBLES. A MONTH AND HAS

SEGRET

---

## Page 11

CABLE HEG DISGEN BY

PERSON LAIT NOTIFIED

TOTAL COPIES

• SECRET

HIPRODUCTION D! OTHER THAN

BEBUINO OFFICE IS PRONISITEO

ISTAFF

•ACTION UNIT

RF. FILE .

VR

ACTIO% #

т 177632

E1A397

PASE 05 1T

TOR12215262 JUL 75

REGULAR VISITS FROM KGB. ME DISLIKES SOVIET LIFE, SPEAKS

-LITTLE RUSSIAN, IS UNABLE TO READ RUSSIAN BOCKS, SUZUECT

• VISITED HIM PURPOSELY AFTER HIS TWO MEETINGS MITH RUPRYANON

AND COLLEAGUE, RECOUNTED THE RECRUITMENT ATTEMPT AND SUB-

JECT'S DISSEMINATION OF STORY TO MIS JENISH PUPILS. MA

TOLD HIM HE HAD AGTED WISELY, PARTICULARLY IX REVEALING HIS

SIGNING OF THE SECRECY AGREEMENT, GAVE HIS OPINION THAT

SUBJECT WOULD NOT BE BOTHERED AGAIN. JUST PRIOR TO SUBO

WECT'S MAY 1975-DEPARTURE ME VISITED MITCHELL TO RETURN A

: BOOK, FOUND HIM MOROSE, MITCHELL ASKED SUBJEST HOW NE

COULD LEAVE USSE ILLEGALLY, MENTIONING AS DUE POSSIGILITY

„USE OF DOCUMENTS OF SAILOR ON FOREIGN VESSEL.

13. SUBJECT IS MARRIED TO IDA LIPENER, DPOB 8 NGV 1938.

LENINGRAD, A TEACHER OF GERMAN LANGUAGE. SONS ANATOLY

...DOB 1963 AND PAYEL 1972 ACCOMPANY, FAMILY BEING PROCESSED

BY HIAS: WILL BE iN ROME APPROX THREE WEEKS. SCHEDULED FOR

RESETTLEMENT IN NEW YORK CITY, SUBJECT-IS SOMEWHAT QUIET

AND MODERATELY SHY IN ENGLISH BUT OPENS UP COASIDERABLY

DURING DEBRIEFING IN RUSSIAN. HE IS COMPLETELY WILLING TO

BE DEBRIEFED, INGLUDING PROVIDINGAPERSONALITY SKETCHES"

SECRET

IN 639123

7 1

42212

---

## Page 12

CABLE SEC DISSEN 8T

PRASON 'UNIT NOTIFIED.

ARVANEL SOPY ISSUER RATIAR

ACTION UNIT

RF.

FILE

TOTAL COPIES

SECRET

RUN BY

STAFF

mAT

VA

6

AGRION A

T 177632

EIA397

PACE 20001281

TOR82215262 JUL 75

OF HIS PUPILS AT NUCLEAR PHYSICS INSTITUTE.

BELIEVE THIS

SHOULD BE DONE IN U.S, BY OFFICER ADMITTEDLY AIS CONNÉCTED,

THUS PROPOSE GIVE HIM AA.

16, REQUEST NOS REACTION PRIOR TO 29 JULY MEETING.

15. FILES 220-008-096/2. EZ IMPDET.

IN 639103

7)

32212

...

•'i"

'i distan bagman site imperine.

d....

.":.:

do word grins i.

S

EC R

₽ T

---

