SSUED (65 Wwe
1

. por, AvOF, 309 5b, ‘Gh 2, eafres,’
“Oty Eiforssesfic, 2, 01[Ps, Fig !
d Rian, sas 8, orfis anfer 2, raf

1% DEL aes 83° iN 8g5g5
” PRIORITY “Dik “SNFO PRIORITY SOOM SUAN CITE WAVE 9934 7 i

INTEL DYVOUR JMPALM | : :

SUPDATA: a row JEAN LOGS CORSIER, DOMINICAN |
| RIGHTIST, WHO OBTAINED INFO FROM RAMON (TAPiA) ESP!NAL DURING A VISIT
c. WITh TAPIA {N SDOM BETWEEN 5 - 7 DEC 63, PROTFS3||
"RID: INDEX. FILED Vg
REPORT CLASS: CONFIDENTIAL CONTROLLED Disses DOMINICAN “REPUBLIC :
“SUBJ: | PLANS OF ‘DOM MIL STARY LEADERS TO. SABOTAGE THE SAN tsipre
AIR BASE ee ;

UG

tag Quaorminarne ise RE rrr) :
#8 caRTION <n etm rake ag Clee

areugere rates RU tOMAAES
wah ested so
Preneverctrnrsd

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER eae: ead PROMIDITED.



LLEAGUE OF RAMON

"a nb sieves na

~ [Bate on DRTRISUTE



14-00000 ,

: “‘eaveraat iNreLiceNce acsncy

dente cheat stctng wo we Orteatn of a Unltng Staten wat the serene, MS fimenees ten tae tk OSE Sere
{81 god He, the Barvaten wr vreeton fot manner fo an qaciborsetd estes sh mrohiheted 4 :

aes ee, a eee DisEMMABON COMTROTS
[ Ci

re

ONFICENT A!

\ Chee Piod saz

REPORT NO, TOCS -

Dare DISTR.
i ease : aires : PRECEDENCE
a — : - i : : : RbHERENCES . th 89565
ahh - , :
FELD REPORT NO.
Fas 3 REVATY UATED wiroenation. Sane SE GRADINGS ARE DEFRUTIVE, APPRATLAL OF CONTENT 15 TENTATIVE. )

fe : ; : : : &,

E
[" ae * ACCORD ING To RAMON (TaPtA) ESPINAL, MEMBER OF THE RULING

: Dominican TRIUMV IRATE, ° THE: DOMINICAN “GOVERNMENT iS lvgsTi carina a
; THE DOMINICAN MILITARY. to SABOTAGE THE

: saio- THAT. victor HUGO RAMON PERALTA, THE:

RECENTLY G‘SCOVERED Pu :
an 1SiDRO AIR BASE. ae

THESE OFFICIALS

woe AHVEST 1GAT ION By THE bom “AN | AVIHORITIES,


~ CLASSIFICATION -.. DISSEMINATION: CONTROLS:

¥

