104-10437-10084,

os

pom

UN

Memorandum

ED STATES GOVRNMENT

TO ! Files DATE: 5 December 1963
FROM : Chief, Research Branch/0S/SRS

SUBJECT:

1. Mr. Cregar, FBI, on 4 December 1963 confirmed that the Subject
is the daughter of William Avery HYDE, SSD-157435. Creger wes furnished
2 copy of two 1957 investigative reports on William HYDE for lead purposes
only and was informed thet Willien HYDE was “under consideration for a
covert use by this Agency in Viet Nam in 1957 but was not used. (This
information had previously been obtained fromf «Pt /iIG).

2. Subject is the individual who is taking care of the widow of

Lee Harvey Oswald and has apparently been quite well know to the widow
of-Iee Harvey Oswald end possibly Lee Hervey Oswald for en undetermined
period of time, The possibility that William Avery HYDE wes the father
of Ruth PAINE vas previously brought, to the. attention of Mr. Papich:
through Mr. O'Meal, CI/SIG...The Security File of William HYDE contains
a copy of @ 1956 FBI Investigative Report (SECURTTY OF GOVERNMENT EMPLOYERS)
on Sylvia Iudlow HOKE, aka: Mrs. John L. HOKE, nee: Sylvia Ludlow fYDE, who
is the sister of Ruth PAINE. The file of William HYDE elso contains a 1956
OSE report on Sylvia HOKE.

3. Jn eddition to the above, it was previously known that William
Avery HYDE and wife Cdrol HYDE were associates in the late 1920's and
later of Talbot BIELEFELT, #29931, who is currently employed by this
Agency in FDD. A certain amount of information concerning Williem HYDE,
Carol HYDE, and other associates of HYDE and BIELEFEMM during the lattor
1920's was furnished by Talbot BIELEFEL? during interviews several years
ago. At that time the BIELEFELT Case was under extensive investigation.

for FOIA Roview on FEB call Grice bs site

Qe

Document Number 2 Ay %

