# 104-10074-10347

## Page 1

104-10074-10347

MEMORANDUM FOR:

Lavery,

OGG.

Via

DDO/PICG

Subject

7-124

Classification of EX 3600

yvin

data as to why this

Re your request for "a couple sentences of factual

his documenteds classified" here they are:

l• Ex post facto, since I was not associated

with Operation MHCHAOS duringzits existence, I can only

offer he following reasonable surmisee As we now know,

duringgits tenure MHCHAos waS one of the most sensitive

operations conducted under Desaegis, repeatedly sanctioned

fini

writing) by the lcia. The activity was deemed so sensi

tive that it was controlled by/through extremely restricted

nandling

narchannelso

in my wiew, that any

"think it follows logically, at least

document

a formal or informal one, would have been classified at

produced by MHCHAOS, whether:

least SECRET:

PRiS

classification today.

12. Does the information in this document warrant

T think ft does, and I believe the

currentic lassification of CONTENTIAL Is proper Reading

Date

3-73 101

05

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only:

Do Not Reproduce

# 09377

---

## Page 2

14-00000

MEMORANDUM FOR:

Pgs 2 through 12 carefully, itais readily apparent that

some of the information

on some of these pages was seemingl

acquired from/through sensitive sources/methods. Also

these pages contain frequent mention of FBI information

con

cerning many of the Peace Movement groups/organizations

Cited; "FBI reports received by MHCHAOS were invariably

classified, for the most part CONFIDENTIAL.

1A8 3.

What should be the proper FOIA exemption. for EX

3600; in my view, (b) (3) •

2522 22

Pa Heetnerd

-C/SCB/IP.

47 Apre 77

1079 101 488

---

