# 104-10406-10075

## Page 1

104-10406-10075

it won

362-

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

1.7 SECRET

RECORDOUING A STAUR

1'a to lowing nation 15

TO

2

& DIRECTOR

anthe 1scd: DEI SENSITIZE

FROM

PARIS

Signed:

Manta

ACTION,

C/WH#

(COPY ISSUED TO WH. AT 1405, 12 DEC 63 OJ)

- unit C1/R+A

INFO

DCI, D/DCI, DDP, ADDP, C/CI,_ C/CI/SP, VR

Note:

If destruction, cite

reasons and coordinate

11 appropriate.

SECRET 1217322

12 ПЕс 53 N 7 9274

PRIORITY DIR INFO BERN GNVA CITE PARI 1994

SPFLOOR

REF:

DIR 86832*

1 AT STATION REQUEST, ACTING CONGEN JOHN GOSSETT WROTE

, GIBSON

ROUTINE LETTER REQUESTING INTERVIEW AT PARA 2 REF ADDRESS.

GIBSON

CALLED ON SOSSETT PROMPTLY AND STATED HAD NO KNOWLEDGE OSWALD BY

TRUE NAME BUT MAY HAVE BEEN IN CONTACT ON ONE OR BOTH FOLLOWING

OCCASIONS:

A. IN LATE SUMMER 62 WHEN WORKING FOR FAIR PALY FOR CUBA.

COMMITTEE (FPCC) IN NEW YORK, GIBSON RECEIVED LETTER FROM GNE

LEE BOWMONT IN-FORT WORTH. LETTER ENCLOSED PHOTO AND NEWSPAPER

CLIPPING WHICH DESCRIBED ACTIVITY SIMILAR TO FPCC AND ASKED

FOR INFO ON FPCC. GIBSON STATES "TO BEST OF MEMORY" HE SENT

ROUTINE REPLY ENCLOSING LITERATURE. HE DID NOT PRESUME BOWMONT

TO BE ALIAS AT TIME BUT FOR SOME UNCLEAR REASON NOW THINKS IT

201-289248

MIGHT HAVE BEEN OSWALD.

B. ALSO IN

SUMMER 62 SIBSON RECEIVED GROUP OF TROTSKYISTS

SECRET

CHASSIEISATION REVIEW

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

CONDUCTED ON.

25 MAY 1975

Copy No.

E:- IMPDET CL-BY: Di073=5°

D-200-0-22

Document Number,

387-738

" for FOlA Review on MAY 1976

---

## Page 2

13-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

IN 79274 PAGE 2

AROVE THON MIGHT HAVE SEEN OSWALD.

AGAIN GIBSON NOT CLEAR

AS IS UNY ME PRESUMES IRIS. SOSSETT THINKS HE MIGHT HAVE

RECONNIES METALS IN TENS PAOTOS AFTER ASSASSINATION. GIBSON

WAS, OR ATTEMPTED APPEAR, MOST COOPERATIVE AND

SOSSETT IYPRESSION IS THAT HE WOULD LIKE TO IMPROVE IMAGE WITH

AMERICAN AUTHORITIES. EXPLAINED MOTIVE FOR REVOLUTION JOB PURELY

ECONCTIC. OFFERED HELP EMBASSY.

2. IF ODENVY HAS HARD EVIDENCE CONTRADICIING ABOVE GOSSETT CAN

REINTERVIEY GIBSON. STATION NOW EXAMINING POSSIBLE OPS USES.

C/S Comment: * Requested Paris station confer with ODENVY (1) and

decide on best method of contacting and interviewing

Américan Negro Richard T. Gibson, who was at one

time associated with the New York Chapter of Fair

Play for: Cuba Committee, Hgs. felt that Gibson

may possibly been triends with

Lee Harvey Oswald.

SPERET

---

