104-10173-10160 ni
Spare. ote : . 1

= oP eedbecet cA
round Use Oni
, Do Not Reproduce”

SECRET/NOFORN ah ad

: n 8 Director
Yedaral Buresa of Investigation
Attention? Mr. Bo de deena

PROi os Depaty Rireotor, Plans

suBrKOT: Jom ~ ak
V nad Carl SWS

1. Reference is unde to your menorands Wert sepuas/ atoll paar
filo ns. 100-370780, entitled Jota Howard lAVSOR, Internal Soourlty = Ge

2. Aacconding to.doamentary information dated 11 Jamary and
13 February 1901, acquired fron a usually reliable source with access -
to the information, the Cubgn Inatitute of Motion Picture Arta and.
Hl _indaatry_has_sxpreesad # Vntersat“in-beving Joha Bowmrd LavsGa, a <<scb4-
rosident of California, go to Cuba aa a teacher and writer in the Cuban
movie industry. To facilitate LANs0!"s correspondence with the. Institute

be giv 7 5 x:
f Cuban Eabssay in texto, for Posen’ ie to the institute, [hence
} i _Sox_correspondence haa leo been arranged for, Carlton HOSS, whose GAGreET
, faip ene bee gers t ‘Hollywood, California, The institute has requested
| a cony of Basat Fins Mite tones on Coast Hil"; or any relates secoratartea,

30 ‘The above information should not be disaesinited outeide your
Pures without prior ocosultation with thir Agency.

4. For additional tuforeation concerning Carlton | HOS ou
referred to your memoranda of. 1; April 1953, Washington Field iald Office File
Ho, 100-15133, entitled Richard KRIDHT,

" 5. This offies has no additional pertinant infomation concerning

\ : Bubjesta.

i | €201-3/76), 707
i ect Departaant of State {

Woe ryder —_|

SECRETINGFORN ee

QO one IN PART
O TOTAL DENIAL



SECRET/NOFORN
03
wi/ufa[__ peas

Distribution:
Orig. & 1 ~ Addressee

2 SECRET/KOFORN

. S April 1961
“BASIC FNHA~16L50

HNA-16626

| PROJECT: LIBIOHT

