104-10282-10018
1

a

20 Ostuber 196]

YEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJLATs Peeting vith Dr. Kiro in Bew York City on
October 6, 1:42

The rortinz with br. Hiro on October 16 wa postruned fron 10100
until suck tive as bie mutionca tom inuted with Cuniiosl Srollran. He
arrived st ry Poor. nt nbiut 10150, Ho declared that the Catlin had
wort Vien he leurned the detailu of the suffering of Uie Cubans ot the
hamis of Castros ceclured that the Architahop of Mlari wentt doing
enough for the Cubnin refiyjeeoy thit the US. wasn't Joiny enouch for
theny that Castro rust be overthrown, Hiro told the Cardinal that in
all Latin Arories there vore goin: to Le oryarired acts of ayrpathy
for the Cutan aufferers, Tho Cardinal said le vould say « Kees for
thes cn Octobor 17, He invited I iro to ose hin at any thre.

Hiro anavored ry query av to the Lacenia at(nirs by stating that
it wea very successfuls 2,20 poonle vere insive tho auditoriu: and
another 1,000 peo-le outuides that Lacerda had recetved euch applause.

The interetrerican Press Association affairs seo had given an
opportunity to prosent the Cuban tragedy. He aid that te (iro) had
tol¢ how Fidel had shot 31 peonle in Septerbter aJone, ant other votalles

had described how Conunist: vas yaiming ~roun! day by ays thet in
Cube they have inetalled a poverful radio station broedeusting to Latin

Arericos that ten countrica have broken with Cuba, but Argentina hae
not; that everybody 1s ounfused.

Re inforned re that ae for the dociments relating to the Cuban
plota in Argentina, the Arrentine rilitary ren caze to talk to Varons,
and he gave thex sume‘doowents that have no imortance. The officers
told Verona textually ve have no confidence in the Argentine Foreign
Office,® nevertheless, when they arrived there, they turned over the
doewants to the Yoreicn Office, Put these docurents had no invortance;
they were rerely to -.eronstrat: that there hac teen an extradition of
deewmenta, am’ that they vere origins, The ti rortant accurente are

held ty Varona in Mant, :

Miro eatd they also visualized another act involving Lacerda in
Miang, Sut tbat his "ad infatrative® budget really does not “rovide for
propi~arda activities (auch as the Current SIP cnd Lacunia offaira), I
countered that it was cunsidered that his budget wae sufficient for his
to ecnduct sore propaganda activitioss obviously nothing on a major

scale == but sore things.



* *But. increase it,” I

¥iro declared that interna] provegancs and claniestine: action in

Cubs exld not be delayed any longer. I szreed on the necnanity, and
that 1¢ was believed that measures are recessury to forment in Cuba

the oposition to Castro; © reonle are egainat his" declared iro.
wered, Virco Wan stated "If this action doesn't
ster. frea the Consejo (CRC) —— not as a: ‘ndependent agency, tut in
close euntuct with you (the Ayency), — vhat ve forrent te a corplete
disorder in Cuba, and aftervards no zoverrmant can succeed; secondly,

Lf we do rot have a central plan, ard carry it out vell in 4 core or
less lietted reriod of tine, there v1il rarely te sore shooting of

_+ People (prisoners) by Fidel.”

"4rd thie ie ny insistence. Bow I ar afrald to go to Wlani., bhat
an I % tell the people there? What co i 07 Convoree? Veanvhile the
Agency keeps on infiltrating pocple into Cuts but disconnected fret. the
Council. I was told in ry conversaticn with the President to enplity
the sentership in the Consejo. I uve endeavored to do that. Ia the
Council there ure other croat organizations ~ dolegates from each of the
organizations ~ that ask me for ars, cyrazite, things, and I ox here
powerless, Therefore I rust work wit% y~3 people in order to seo bow
We nay hard over arme and a plan of actinu zo they ray see that this 1s
not rerezy cn endless series.of astotaze actions." I reoliet, "ell, I
believe that a well-vorked-out plan ‘ret el.cws wood chancea cf success
will vw favorably considered.” +

"How ubout area for the Bacantrey?* asked Miro. I replied that
it wes rz unteratanding that urms for tke Escarbrey could only be ©
landed on the North Coast; how then wil: they pet to the Escarbrey?
Miro s<fd that the boaf which had rami cany trips (vorking for YoU),
would bave to establish corsunioaticn an: find out when they would pick
up the arraj vhat cannot be done “fe aves.B Cavuldo Ranire in his
situaticn of anguish becauve he 4s the caly renl regional focus of
resistance that there ia there, and be tas teen really left in a desperate

situation for three conthe.

I interposed that there seered eee “uestion about the puper frow
Ramirez 2eking for arms, whether 1t wes we real thinc, "Perfectly
identified" ronlied Miro. “ke assure thet it is perfectly identified end
requeata have come to me through different channels asking for these arms.
Tax pti2] waiting now for month anc a tolf, All you buve to do ia tell
us the reans of delivery, tha neorle t contact and then celiver to our
Cutens the urna, dynatite, fuses, I ax stil) waiting, ond critictar (of
Cubans against inetion) increases ca‘ly.” :

#111 the delegations of revoluticrary croups in the Council sak re
for erca emi reans for fighting. But I cannot crovide ther anything.
Meamé-tle the Agency ie infiltrating -eozie into Cuba without counting on
the Cores jo for anyt!:ing. This puta it into an absurd position ~ merely
a "couresi vainted on the Wall.” I Lave said, “Lock for someone elee if I
am not ecosidered able to do the job tut ve rust work. J have confidence
inthe Agency, but I cannot work inthis fashion.* :

ere:
q a



"I've asked for roney for the clandestine yroups. \hat have they aaid
about thut?" Firo that there is a problen of the reans of
delivery, that the t present appears undesirable. The
Anbassador isn't thoro we Took for another reans; the
anything - those peonle need :oney" he countered. I have to carry out con
erete things," he declared. *I!r now like a pergen ine swinring pool
without water." "For three emi a half rontho I've struggled to raintain a
revolutionury spirit. My rilitary reople are waiting till I arrived and
tell then, "this .ust te done, that must be done, Aothing yet! And without
any vlan, I don't go unswheres novherol

"The other time I went with ry oyes closed, through falth. we had a
failure and the failure fell uyon'res—T cannot proceed under such edrewr=
atauces in no way. I've asked for-$50,000 to send tn to the underground.
The Russians are spending $400,000 in propaganda and have leva than the
¥.3. Ke stall not comprozise the U.3, Toll ne the vay to send it in. The
Council 1s to aid ther, not rerely to conduct ceetings.#

"On that roquest they hsven't renlied anything?” he asked, I anovored
that on this iter, I had mace known Niro's desire, tut that so far noth ing
had been resolved,

*I'm not corplain he stated, "but forthree ronthe I have beon
asking fcr a con.act withthe authority to resolve. Why? Because I'm
getting novhcre. when I return now I ehall be asked, "How sbout 4t7” and
zust snaver, 'You will have to walt because I huve ncthins.! And meanwhile
tho Agency keeps on infiltrating people into Cuba incerendent of the
Consejo. Let us yo back. Without being in agreement, I cannot sarve you.
Thave no interest in presiding over a Council that is of no use.”

T pointed otit that the Council must gontinue to exist, with him as
its president, a8 the coordinating body of the resistance rovexent, but
that thore are certain difficulties in rutting the student or labor activi«
ties unler the direction of the Council; that those groups are now functioning
effictontly and that I trusted that he could see the oroblecs of completely
changing their control, direction, and coordination, I added that I
believed that he should know scuet?ing of vhat they are doing and that I
volfeved that should be kept inforced,

"I know absolutely nothing," he revlied. “what cores to me is from
these sane individuals, I ay not in agreerent with that, I'n becoring ridi=
culous. Under these e!rounstances I cannot contimus. I have planted the
probler: of tho underground, the probler of the collateral organizations
(thet he vould like tc have in Counes1 by teing their source of support
and coordination), of the eagistrates, and nov you have seon whet ALABAU has
done (preelaiming GARCERAN ag president of exile government), tho ig worke
ing vith you people, and you have seen the reaction cf the State Departrent.
How yosterisy ALABAl! is publishing politica] denunciations against the
Council. I have discussed the xatter of the :agistrates with the C.I.A., I
don't remenber the maze of the person, A ronth kas passed and the other
magistrates (those vith ALABAU) haven't been stovped (in their activities)
and they haver't had electicns as I requested to select ancther leader.”

enpany



nal

~

"The students are continuing their activities, I telieve that I have
sonetiiing in ry head aa a tasis for the veterminaticn of vhat should be
discussed in the Counetl vite re; and in agresrent with you; but these
existing circurstances, vitzwut any connection, sake it ‘so that I cannot
Continue the clandestine aiz, Yo the first problez, I presented your reply,
"ve shall oe." To the senza? probler, the collteral orgenizations —=
Which continues the sara s9 ~efure; the third protler I presented, on arcs
to send in, nothing. The fourt. nrobler, the propaquncal operation "Grieta®
Umt I shoved you, noth 2 reclied that om the latter I rad discussed
the aarti that it was, T teliever, a suggention given fe tir in the Depart-
rent of State. al

"If ve don't take provazenda and send arra into Cuba now, it's useless,”

he declared, “And I canzot rerain in silenco.® I reclied that I telieved
quite a bit of propaganda ws te‘ng coniucted, "Yea, but. incopendent of the
Council. I CaNNUT EE A PUF2ETE" "They (the Arency) kegpion dealing with the
MRP, vith the Unidad Revoluctcrz rio, and they haven't ontered into the Council
sipnly becausn they ara in cirect contact vith the Ayency. Thus it appears
that none of the vrevlers uct I took up with you sore twenty daya ago have
been resolved, and I'll tave tv take another solution, I'vant to know the truth
4f T'r not acceptable, I'll leave ard vithcut any scard¥é wnatoouver. I have
svalloved ull the criticte, to ry own house, in atlence, as though I vere
Tesponsitle Zor everything, I surnot continue to do this end te doing nothing.
T cannot be a puspet! I reve wm arvs to give.® {

He reiterated that netting hud bean resolved cn any of his requests and
Provesala, am’ that he ecula't ecntinue thus, That he could quit, go to .
Puerto Rico ava profnescr, Re edécd ke would vant te vork with us. Ho then
Teferred to the acts of Lunerds in New York, which had cost four thousund
dollers, plus passare, o ricicw.cus aur spend frox the sdzinistretive Budget.
Ke have paid the prasare, nis living costs Lore.* he said, ;

"How I yo to Pisrd vtere i hove to face the organizticns grouped into
the Council, "Aira for ever;-tere?” °T haven't any. All the organizations free=
wheeling there wiict. don't sext to join tovether Lecause Ithey ere vorking
directly with your people. I ssid this sav unfortunte and askcd whether
there could oct te sore form.c* realizin. ecntacta with ther without noces~
sarily channelisins their socert ard direction through the Council, such
as ty forming a ecrnittee siore the Lines I had suger sted| in Mende

Miro then referred t. the ezreerent reached in the white House nesting
With Fr. Goodvin, Mr. boodwer!, vith zertleren of the C.TLA., and vith Mr.
Hurvits, Piret, tring that ts recommdzed ig) the Coneejo (CRC);
Tr. ine is the :erscn of cur eurfidence and will have al ecriniatrative
budget which ke will ocntrs? anc vill report juter the exenses of coordina~
tion, ain: that any other excenses, sropayarda cr clandestine activity, will be
paid by the Averey; for the or of the organizations! !n the Council there
will be a ecntact to assist ic working out their solutions; that is to say,
that their pretlera of toats az: arrs." Another point vag) that in case there
are organizations thet dc’ act choose to join the Courcil, |Dr. Piro will be
perfectly inforred in actance of the ratters at hand anc will give his

authorisation, Thet 1a to say, tt cetatatenen 4 unifying eontrol over the



(RC). Ihave coven, to work with you, with me, vith the people who are
going to carry out the activities, vith the people that I designate,
Nothing of that is teing done, Then what they vant is to work alone.®

*E will not continue. I vill not continue fromthe: tine I return to
¥isal. I have gone on for five nonthe, struggling. I cannot accept this
situation, I have tried to pull together those srours asjasked in the
White House, I haven't succeeded in rousing any rore, because ~ I vant to
peak clearly in order to rerain good friends aleays = beonize you have
prevented it. The stucente havon't. Joined, not because of no political
reason, but nerely tocause you aunport ther: directly. Presumably the idea
4a that in thie vay the seourity of this nation ia better safepuaried,

A Consejo vea desired to serve as tha coordinkting group and to provide a
feana by which the United States would not appear tote intervening in Cuba.
If there 16 to be a Consejo, it must have all the dignity of a Council.”

"When I try to form a Council, grouping all elezents together, they
don't Join because they are talxing directly with your people ~ and there
is an offices for that purpose in Fiami ~ which deals with all the ren who
want to work, sho vant to do things. This 1s all {necendent of tho Council,
And some vork for a destruction of the Council, I eannot tolerate this. T
have @ son who is a vrisoner; either I know the plans, and I knew the saneuver
and the problers that they are going to carry out, or I, then I arrive in
Hiari, will say, *No,* and send word to Washington, Let then do without nes
There will be soreone vko will submit to these things, but not I,"

“And of the four iters that r=Bmmedy promised re to resolve, there
shave not been resolved any, and I-find'rysolf in the dark, And I a. very
sorry. Iam not going to corurcuise the security of this Nation, but
neither ar T going to couprocise the situation of these biya, khen they
isappeared, lost their iives, etc,, I wus con:ronted with “And you ure the
preaident of the Council," I carnot remsine in this waye.®

*I haven't been able to group together anything, I ‘ua promised that
the ragiatrates would all incorrorate together (into the Council), but
that rascal ALAEAU 4s vorking against the Council and Ihave renson to
believe that he ts doing it with Agercy support, uthervise how would he pay
for his politio:1 denunciations," I reeconied, that T telleved this could
not be true, He shouted, "I Lave expreased my position te you, and I vant
you to get an answer when you can. If ticaa vrotlers that I have set forth
do not have an irnediste solution, I & not'to kucy and to dispose of
relative actions to be taken, then how, in view of ny situation, rust I do.”

He asked about the olan for clandestine sabotage action by cornzando
raid, that he had given us, an? what hed core of it. I replied that he rust
realize that the study of such a plan necessarily was alow ond must be
congiddred by rany. He said he was convinced that there was no intention of
accepting such plans, ard that while mow ve discuss such Plans, we lose out.
“I cannot accent this situation, nor would you,” :



ie then said that he could xo ahead ant Ginsolve the Council, and let
@uch orraniantion go ahead nu do na it jleuacdy thut he couldn't proatde
over @ reaningless council tut thie was not a throat, but he would step
out. I reassured biz that he was bishly esteerod in huahiny:ton and It vee
neonawry that he continue ao heart o/' the Council. He renlied, "Dut they
2

Aereyard c

: ite reiterated that he hart :Janted four nroblera, none of’ viieh tad
: Weer resolved; reiterated that ie lel planted the cronuranaa oroblen. a
i long tire ago, but that rropagarmia continues indaponient ct the Counotl
ft and people cre nert out ike those to the Con-rega of atuenta in Sao
Faslo, Wiore they repout t Inga Ltke purrots witch don't go. with Latin

Averican audiences.

: "I have asked for array olthar irive us rassive afd, one, tvo, three
: Billion © vhatevor {a nocuneary, tecause this ts to-deatroy Communion,
; and we'll rxke our plans, Ard ve'll furnish the dead, fcr wo can do no
Fore. ke runt work in ayreeront, Lacuusze rev exch tine that I spuak,
it's "ve nkoll seo, we are going to stiuly," - nnd rothing hapoens, Ko,
i no,'T akall rot preaide over.ancther Council extytity: uner these cireun=
stances, Ihave often arent 24 hours without aleeping, trying to pull
together the groupa, and menntire, problers arise on all sides. Why?
Becauve Bo lony a8 other prousa vet suncort, they won't enter tho Council.
Tha MEP 18 in contact with you und getting array now the Unidnd Rovolu=
clonaria. I rerain the ridiculous one, Alrea'y Ive nuffored a lot and
have @ aon vho fa 2 privoner, And I've talked a lot during these daya,
and I xeen on being « puppet, wut vorse than & purnety because a puppet
is woved, Lut I's. not even reved."

*Therefore, I say to you that the groups that want to work with us,
you, the chief of that grou, and I, ve ought to resolve all these questions;
for evarcle, with the chicf of the nilitary group, tennae he haa pulled
togettar the profassicm] arty ard the rebol army (elerents) and the arvy
of iikeration, such ua Varela, Sotus, Kino und the boys, ho have core

» fros the Lrigade." He declored that S/S faa fighter, 1s willing to
, Feturn to Cuba, srd thot he had great confidence in SUT!S,

: T assured him thet the legalization of SOTUS! residence would be
rranze4, and that Yr. Aurvitz inforrad re tht he believed. sorething
could Le dere for the other three returnees vios0 nares I'r. Piro had

+ gived se.

Dr, ¥iro reiterated that ke rust speuk clearly, that he could not

continue thus as a travelling presicent without having anything to give to

. his peccle = nothing to the undoryroun! through Counef] wotion; ner could

‘ ‘he be ignorant of plans vhich he opnoved where Cubans yo out to die, and

i thea having their relatives core to bit as responsible. He declared, *I
don't want to live on a budget, creside over an adrinistrative office,

| Teceive pecrle, tell ther lies, esying, "We wall see.® The ren vho are



eases
Te

here (in Council) reprenenting organizations rust know something of vhat
tay are going to do and if they ask for 40 rifles, I nust be able to aay, :
“Here they are* ~ not to give arms directly into their hands = but through i
4 contact for thie, Otherviee you people ruke your plane, and I'l retire

frou everything. And be assured that rover, never vill I say a single vord
againat the Agency or tho United States, never; nor exvluin reasons which
shouldn't be explained,

"If I cannot have the responsibility that I should have, I ehull not
lend ryselt to vhat ray result in a tragedy, Nono of tho problems I have
planted have been resolved; not that of tho rry:istratea nor that of the
ecuzbrey, nor the rouey to the undergroun|, hae boen rosclved, not the -
plan of propagania that I gave you. I cannot continuo to ait in an office, :
While you continue operating, as you wish, with ry silent oonsent, You mey Et
choos foxeone else like ¥r. Godoy, who 48 avking ‘or arms, Choose and i
aes vhother hia nare vill save Cuba. You are roing to create another Fidel, :

vho 1a nothing.

I repinded him that I hud my talks with hin only ton daya before, not
twenty, and that I could talk to no one in Washington until a veek ago and
had to have rany conversations with pany peoole, and that his proposals
coull not be rosolved In suc short tire. He returned to the ayrecront
that "plang of action be discussed jointly; that if thore vere objectiona,
that the objoctions be discussed, He sald thero had been no objections so
fer to discuss; nor objections to propaganda nlans. He was to have contact
with « re:resentative of C.I.A, to zeet with representatives of orgunizae
ticna that vant to collaborate, and with Dr, Viro — nothing developed on
taati He declared that he should have knowledge of the activities of
thove that don't want to collatorate; and sald euch day there will te nore,
becnune they vant to cuin the power for therselvua; to act on their om
aconmt, He said he knows there 1a o "Jim" and a "Robert" and others that

ere doing thinge, :

I assured hin he sust realize that there ware :any problens involved
in his proposals ani that tire was easential to vork ther out, I rerinded
hy. of [4a conversation with kr. Goodwin and tho lattera’ state: ent to the
effect that thora could te no thought in the foreseeuble future of a mille
tary operation against or invasion of Cubs. Miro countered by referring to
hig oonvoraation with the President on 1¢ July and his (Niro's) complaint
of inactivity, He said the President pronoged the recruiting of Cubane in
different units of the arry for training so as to utilise ther ut the
opportune tine, and that the officers would be invited to our pilitery
achcole, Miro said he had xuthered soce of the military topether and ine
forced them of thia cffer, and tho naxt week he vas:culled to disoves the :
recruiting, wiich he avproved, Ther Genera? Herahey went to ses fim at
his house, telling hir that Cubans wouldn't be sent,to Berlin or any such
place but kept in the U.S, availuble for use later, Firo said, "If there
49 to Le no invasion, then let's utilize the underground, which needa arxe

and roney.®



He again repeated, “There rust be rasaive eropagendas aroondly areas i

ve ghall furnish the cead, but I need to 410v “low are we going to die.® psnovsaROA SRD
Hw commented that he was going to ask that his photo;raph not be put of t

going to continues that in the present cire-zstances he didn't sve how be
eould continua, Again I urged that Le rust do oo, ard that-I felt cortaia
that ve could movlve sure of his provossls, “rotubly not te the extent
that he desirod, but at least in purt, but that tine ves necessary to

accomplish thi :

He repeated that the Counoil neods to bave etre »otion'aken in Cubs,
tut the Agency keens on uncertaking noticra without any connection with
tha Gouncll. Furt.er, that he rust have the reann for ecnductiony prom=
yanda, suet as outlined in the "Operuticn Grieta.” He agkod so when could Hh
TI give bir sore anavera, I replied that during the current week I expected
to have reotings in which these ratters wuld Le discussed = the Leparwent
of State, with Kr. Goodwin, with representatives of tho Agency, and that I
hopod thut auething woul te resolved, tut thot ho must realize thot rany
people are involved in auch matters and svlutions are rot reached quickly.
lle reiterated that he had to keen telling 215 oryontzutiona "ait a little
longur® and that thio was becoming onturrassing.

the cover of a certain sagasine bocause he didn't know vhother be ws ‘

‘Then ho brought up his prevosal of huvin: kim and the Couned] go to
Cuba, saying “porhans it would be advantazeous that I die in Cuba; that
the Council nak recojmition fron. Cuban sof] ond the nilitury aid of tho
United Statea -- all to take place within 42 hourn, He added, “I have i
told you of the reaction of Cardinal Srelran, ve hove done very badly
in tho Cuban affair.? ;

I recinded hir that despite tho urgeiey that ve all recoynized in the
Cuban situation and ita threat to the Urited Status and al] the Arericas,
there are vany other vorld problera - Laos, rerlin, ote., = viich also
occupy the attention of our goverrrent recnle,

‘Then I auid I wished to take odvantag. cf our néeting to ook hin for
information relative to his current budests first, did he believe that
there Were any neonlg recuiving « snlory fru the Counei] vio misht also
be getting financial ald from H.E.x, He seid, "So, £ sould nover parr tt
that.” Then he declafed that he Ind tuo wya of oper-ting vhon ho absorbed
the perscnnel of the various oryanizations ints the CRC; either to cut off
their salaries auidenly, or to put ther to wore. for their nay; that tre
*norina* (cayroll) yrew a little Lit tecuuze be had to take in certain
neovle, ap! that ke ecrsidered t1s ulsorbire ther wa sccorcing to the
noliey of C.I.A, Then he declared that the raxizu benefit recelved by :
refugees ‘ror. H.F,W, waa $100 per far tly cer rontr, ani that no vhere tere :
could u farily live o. 4 hunired a ronth. Hence, |e did not fee) that he ‘
could cut off the peovle on the staffs of the Cit organizations, and send
ther. to the H.E.Ws Therofore, they were apaigned to the different

gee



SPET
tod

"The money for the unterground de ruch and contact te doubtrul, an

“ exouse, The rroblen vf Cuba coats u lot of. varey! The pele of the

‘Eacanbruy = it's difficult to deliver arms to them? But ve are going to
run that rioi @ urts are guing to be lost? ell, riske must te taken.®
Vire aguin referrod tu tho groups that didn't want to collaborate with the
Council but would collaborate directly with the Avenoy atating that he

had onvesed it und util) opposed It; ‘that he received a ver; affectionate
letter asking bin. to try work out all the croblers tetveen us ani xecept

« solution, an! that a ruprosentative would be cesijmoted'to work with bing
that I had appeared ant he had ypent two very pleasant days with re; that

I veo vory uniarotanding; that twenty dayn bad pessed of great. argtetye
(Mot twenty but ten," I inter-oued.) ile auid ho figured that ;robably he
right have arrn and hein for the underproun] ant Snow about plans of ection
and had felt dtrenthened, "But® he sald, "now I tual knocked dom, hone
of tho plana or propaganila propos:is hava been accepted, none, The tiring
wall in Cuba continuwa functioning, 31 dead in %) days. by resignation has
hoon urstten long ago, und ¥ am ready to aulrit it aa aoon as £ retury to
Marte! # .

I declared that he rust not do that, that be cust have pationcs,, that
it takes time to resolve these things; He replied that he has beon waiting
ince April and rentioned all the sufferin: he Lad gone through, attacks
by everyono, rothers of prisoners ami dead, the Arerivon Press, Fortune
Tine, Lifo, New York Tinea, ete., all against bin wlon: with ALABAU Trelles,
and others and that he had muonorted oll of tiie in silence. He had been
seked 1t it were true thit there wus no air sunrort and had not answered,
"the other tire I kept my 14ps closed with atssiute faith, the noxt tire I
oral] huve ry eyes open unt have rany quontions. I don't uneratand how
you peonle can deal with sore of these unknown Cubans, .

He said, "I've given rany vroofs of loyulty to you. What they attribute
to pe the other cay in Miart thut “there would bs an invasion in a few
days", that 19 not true, I have a tapo recording of sat T sat viieh vas
"very soon (without ventioning any date) in Cuba there would Le unveiled
the grout Pascuna (resurrection) of thy Futherlerd, and the press hug rise
Interpreted Pascusa ua the Pascuns de Navidad (Ciriuteas).

"Thus the prans cones out with state-ents attrituted to Dr. Piro that
the invasion will take place by Chrintras, corsletely a lle and nothing
Aiko whut I soid,* I conceded to fr. iro that fw had suffered a trerenious
nurber of attncks in silence and thut tho prosa hec over a period of tine
core out with critical rerarks. I asked his. if hs planned to pasa: through
Washington before returning to Miami and he saia he dijn't have money for
Such expenses; that tia wife wae terribly vorried etout their sor, but
that he would have to reiuin in Kew York until Wednesday to attend the
luncheon for all the editors of the Latin A:erican press, who want to cone
verse with him, to help with propagands but witiout costing the U.S. a
cont. ae

we



i

10= : i
= ee

commissions within the CRC: finance, propaganda, clandestine, rilitary,
organisation, ete. The nes vho are no Kood or don’t want to vork,
oaid, he vould cut off, but that he couldn't Just fire screone suldenly,
He then said saluries vere oral] @ $200, $225 per conth.as en sverage
except for particular individuals, such aa hie useistant Aragon, o very
capable person, and the chiefs of the various organizations who work "full
tine" and receive 3400 each; further that he planned to give each organizas
tion approximately $700 per nonth for their operating expenses, amo loss,
some a little rore ~ (YRR, Rescate, 30 de Nov, 26 de Maye, AAA Initenend=
fontes, Kontscrist1).

Wien I questioned whethor the bonteorist’ orvanizaticn was util) in
the CRC, he said it.was, that only Justo Curdllo had dropped out of the
CRC but the jroup rerained in and had a new head, He added that he had
just had a requost from Carillo to provide his (Carille) with a thousand
dollares that Carillo had photographic copies of sore checks thit ho had
paid.to Waldo Frank for propaganda activities ezainst Cutu and that
Capillowaa asking rointurserent but Miro said he didn't ounsider he had
to give it to Carille: H

Returning to tho budgot, Miro Said, °There are ‘the verious erployoess
there ia the iter of trips; there are the military jeople grouped under
the military commisaion ~ I cannot let the. suffor risery. There ore no
atudenta on the payroll beceuse they ere being suyngrted by you (the
Agency). And right there a difference ia estublished between those in
the Council and those wio recoive xonsy (roc the Agency directly, which
4@ nore then thet received by ry people. See how yau (the Agency) with=
out intending to, and for reasons of dusecurity, ara going to destroy
the Council,” He then stated that ho had placed Alvarez Dias, who had
boon Finioter of Finance, in charge of finance mattere because he (Miro)
could not be everywhere, and to make certain that no exienses were paid
on which they were not in agreeront, and which Paul would carry out,

T querried whether Paula vould evrtinue as accountant, and Miro said,
"certainly, aa accountant." He anid that everyons has baen coring to him
(Mire) with all kirda of pleas for money and therefore it was necessary
to have Alvares Diaz in here so that he and Paula night resolve tho finance
matvere. Miro added vorda of praise for Paulu, "It's like I want to heve
for each section of the Council, like T wanted Conte! Acuero to handle
propaganda, tut since he is receiving roney fron you (the agerey) he
doesn't want to, I have to have soreone to take this load off of re; firet
as in Naval affairs, screone to lock for boats, arma, etc.”

I asked about Kestre for proparanda and Miro replied that bestre is
no good, never was of valus; thut he liad lwen put in charge of the proca=
ganda commission previously and givon &t,020 ponthly, but had done nothings
Then ho launched into a criticise: of the Svan proparanda} that it vas 6
share, handled by Batistianost Fernandes VARELA, @ Cutholics Suares
Hernandes, @ senator in the epoch of Ratista, He nated another (sounded

SECET

i
|
i
|
|
i
|
{
7


!
i
!

i
i

le’

like Chau Miller) a tad peracn and 4 fatiuters. Piro’ said ba had asked
that Svan te starred but, aince they vork directly, thess peoplo are
“‘efended. He added wryly thet he wishod ‘thoy (the Ayer.cy) would defend
him (Piro) that way.

He waid they (the Aseney) had posed the vrotle: five zonthe ago in
Viuri relative to Joaquin, Jager io, 8 Cuban who we working with the
Counoi2 and hae vorked regnificently, but then he secepted vork with the
€.1,A. and continusa doin; this (ar! do a shotever he -1s nth) - intele
Lyence, arra, recruiting, atc. - and vill have rotting to do vith the
Council, °

Again Miro declored that ke had the hijheat regard for Paulo and
couldn't deanense with hir 5 had ‘even propowd his nare to Le the lagistrate
of the Tribural «f Accounta in the future sovermzent of Cuba, I udded
ny uderotardin: that Pride had dono an excollant ob, narticularly
sentioninyg his handling of paying cerender.ta, a meticulous and arduous
task, Firo exciairod that he had never ecnsidered revlacing Paula but
porely neaded Alvares fiuz to handle details with Paula. He aoid every=
tre in Mtomt Ieows 1% is Pula vho has tha morey to rake paynents by
check, ani that he thought 1% would bo better for the people to get pay=
vente Jn cash ant ntgn x recetot; thit scratines swacte tight rob Paula
and thon people will uuk “fro. whers docs this roney ecre,* aince the
Cubuno havea no roney,* :

Then Dr, Miro said he would like to clarify any doubtful questions, I
asked whether he had raveived any other conmunication fren the Escambray
group, He rovlied thet io had rot, but that the ona head cora through the
Momteeriati proun ani they continued tomek hi: for this arre aid, I
asked whether any chany.s or dditiong had teen rade in the Counei] at the
October 10th reeting., He replied that the PRP had not angered hie ine
vitation bueause they wore vorking with the Avency, and that the new
group, the Union Levoluctonario, had relied thut they did not, tecause
they hive a colagste: in vashington who ia seeking direct contact with
U.S. Goverrsent Agezcies, :

Miro then declared thet in order to call a Cownoil resting, he had to

have @ press confererce or a préss rolense (about celiing « CHE recting)
but Prio, ALAKA!, and everytody were tgainat oll ti 1a, and were doubtful

- Whether to core or zot to cove, “Z talked with Conte szuero and with Are

rellano pany hours. Arreliane is a fwhrer; if things cren't done aa he
wenta, he von't co slong. Mornover, he has « atrong anti-American
sentinont, I talked to ther, but they said, "Ko." "There were two
proble.st their lack of confidexce in the Coverrmert, and ry contradictory
view that we wunt to be with then (witt ".5,), I woula like to have had
to call a Council resting alrost by force, Therefore I cecided to have

ro meeting and no press conference, and to sore here (to Kew York City).

: ‘

There vas no session */

SEOTE



ann

Nae

wl

"The Tastistianos ure vory well orgarized and also the Frio follovers,
vaiting for ra to do sorething, and I cannot do anythings I'r Like St.
Lawrence, roasted on une sido and Cried on the other.”

T asked whother the Couo1] vas locked tron too ruch as a political
entity rather than a unifyin; medium. Miro rorlied, "Thove peeple (Pric,
Alabau, ete.) wint to obstruct the ones who are fightin: Castro through
the xediun of the Counet}, They are dividod into two creurs: (1) i
Politiciars; Prio, Alonso Pujol; thoso thit vart to te the directors;

(2) The :roupa that want to act within Cubu who don't want to Join CRG
tut rather to deal directly vitt: you neonle in order to have the pover
tomorrow in Cuba; people only of action, hyt sot of corzon sange and who
cannot roan ruch to the future of Cuba; tei would cause ‘another era
like that of Fidel, who is rothing but a student. That‘ts extrerely
dangerous, You give these neonle the reuns and if one of them over~
throws Fidel he {s the one who assumes power, He ray be a yood ren of
actlon but only 24 or 25 yenrs old smi not one who can orient Cuba in
the way of decocracy, After raaching 40, ceople think diftorently.
Fighters are capable of curry ing cut the action you give then to do, but
not to xovern.

Dr. Fire continued to cvell on }:ia concern as to the future if these
young fighters are given a free hand to co as they plesses that care must
be taken as to who in sunsorted, that these people are the onea who don't
want to work with us; that the }4P hopes that it will be te ore who will
lead tozorrow in Cubas that onos of the future will be sorething to which
you the 0,3, hay contributed by suprorting such elerests.

Dr. Miro corrented in further detail hie views and again ha rered on
the ranner of uring funds to avoid being like the ostrich, "iveryone
knows where the roncy is coming fror end 0 hava to be careMil of the
form. Everyone doow rot know of you, but of whore the help is coming
from”

"Wo are tha pulitices of the war against Caotré," affirmed Pr. Fires
Lot arilitury ren Mmetion aa chief of staff a long sate rilitary action
against Castro contimues, but then the civil action oust, be carried out
by non-military ren,.*

He added that duriny the softeniny-un action against Castro, ve
rust take good care of the ranner in viich th: action Is tsken ta avcid
exrosing the 1,8, suimort; and that he considered that the collsteral,
Aincependent grouns were not safeguarding it; ao w are losing the now
as you (U.3, Avencies) deal with esch, of thease crours, Arc te rust not
lose, ve rust win,



I told tr, Firo that I ws anxious to work out sone ranner of linkirg
these groups with ir. Miro ani the Council, without having to channel
direction and funcs through Dr. Miro, since these groups are now function=
ing well uncer existing arrangerents.

Dr. Mire #-4d he would te rlessed to meet with ther, outside of the
Council, and they ray continue to function as ¢llateral oryanizations
indeperdently; tut that they realize that rave one direction. Dr,
Fire ad’ed tret like the Independent magistrates vith their attitude —
they, are injuring the Council.

Dr, Miro exxented that he wanted the raziatrates to have an electicn
and select their leacer according to the resuits of a vote. He reiterated
that 031 the ccileteral organisations runt operate within the orbit of ta
Counc!1; and that be vould be glad to discuss with then their opinions
dust as he os « professor had core with stucer.te-~cften tines resulting
in excellent teas end viewpoints.

Then I recticned that I had read in one of our magazines aA laucatcry
item describing nis ceronstrated capabilities as # rediator botween
political grpurs and individuals.

Dr. Miro again returned to his belief that fonds of all erganizatiors
should funnei through the Council because every Cuban haa a sense of sell
that inclines bic to go vhers he knova the money is dispensed, that this 19
sad but trues cod that those vho are still outside and hope to get direct
suoport,iithey mew that Ure roney waa here (in bis hande), would core
running without urging. He then seid that he had seven hundred collars,
more or less, for each organization's operating cxpenses, He concluded
by saying that e dido't wish to operate without us (Agency) or without
any of the Avency saovle, but merely desired to pull together the diverse
groups and otter activities.

He then referred to bis conversations with Mr. Berle and General
Taylor, and ris view expressed to then that in the April affair he felt
that the Agerey te¢ functioned sure or 1 effectively —~ soretires
their people kad teen "rough", or "tough", but that he had no corplaints
that the lack of str cover no doubt caused defeat. khen he had been
querried by re-orters and other on specific questions designed to pry
secrata out of riz, he had replied, "I didn't see ther," or eiriliar
evanions, and thus had endeavored to be loyal to use

Ho said his son had been certain that hia father would be with the
expeditionary force, and, in route to the Bay of Pigs from Guaterala
the gon bad searched for hir. onthe boats, and vas disillusioned because
hig father wasn't there.



Again he exphasised his view that the stu‘onts sent to Latin Arerican
countries on propaganda elseions should be indoctrinated by ceople in the
Council to prepare then for the eross exazining that they vould undergo,
and thereby prepare thes. against trans and foolish statortnts; and to
ingure that no Batista suporters sere cent out. He erphazised that one
of the firat questions asked of these provaganda er.iesaries would be
*hith what roney do you come here?*® "shat Yankeo organization is behind
you.® He added, *The peorle have to be wil vrecared. to answer; just ap
I bag to undergo a succession of penetrating questions vhen T first vent
into exile in Argentina and could anever ther without, healtation becnuse

of a clean record,

Again ho cane back to his urgurent that the collateral oryanizations
should function through the Council = nok "forgotting the Acency, but not
being forsotten by the Agency." I told Dr. Miro that T honed during the
courea of the week to have a nerios of conversations inthe course of
Which certain decisions and eolutiona would te reached that vould ensble
me to sit dow with hin the following veek and work ont sace details on
propaganca and other ratters.

fr, Miro then asked, "How best canthe accurity of this nation be
insured = Agency dealing directly with these people or vorking with
ther through Kiro7* And he erphesized that he vas concerned both with
the security of Cuba and of the United States, and that these people
(Cubans with whon the Ayoney Je dealing directly) at any morent vhen
they felt they were losing out or were not sufficiently paid = would
aok for rorey and, being Cutana, right ta very indisereto; but that if
they had to eal with Miro they gould be obligated to go to hig with
their complaints. He said thit just aa a bew seeking aweots will go ta
any source, but if there is only cone source it will go to that ones and
that thus all crous .ust look to the Council, :

Again Dr. Miro returned to his thouia thet sooner'or later there rust
be var to overthrow Custro, and that Cutans and Aroricans nust realise
thia; that as © preliminary the Cubena must carry out sabotage, ates,
but just us blockades didn't overthrov Franco or Mussolini, reither would
they cause the all of Cantroy further that if auborage we conducted withe
out being @ part of an ovora!l plan of rissions, the people inside Cuba
would cone to react adversely to the subotace and align therselves with
Castro, 2

Re then exoressed his view that tire is teing sadly wasted in trying
to bring the Latin Arericen countries into agreerent with the U.S, against
Castre, because, uncortunately, rary are ruled by dictators and they fear
Concerted action against therselves, but if the U.S, attacks and destroys
Castro they will aoplaud. re Tepoated thst the Punta del Esto
agreerent night well cause tany countries to say, "Thank you Fidel, and
not, thank you Yr. Kennedy," ;

Dr. Mire emphasized that he vanted to collaborate vith ue fully. Thea

the ecoversation turned to the dissolution of the FRD by Varons, and Dre
Miro declared that this steo was difficult for-Varona, to take because he

is



als- i

hat been itn cheef and in @ Kigh vosition and had thus subriitted ts the
Council, He declared his eateer: for Varom, a vory brusque ran but very
hemest. Bo onid Verona had declared with resmoct to the Argentine
docicents thit, "They are in Miami, I don't fool like sending ther to
Aryentina bacause they don't telong to Arrentinn, They telong tothe
tUlefsthat fe Castro, Argentina has ciploratic relotiona with Cuba and
Af it foole like it, vill send the doewento to Cuba.” Vurcna declared
dn the SIP that the Arjentin military ren had decoived him beaause,
having atated that they didn't trust the Arcentine Foratyn O:fiee, they
Revertheless took to iryentine the three docurents that vero Fivea to
ther an: uron arrival turned ther over ta the Foreign Offic. ¥ire
added that Varona otuted t fa clearly in the SIP reeting where two
Argentina deleyates vore prezent. ‘they said, "sithout rentioning nares,
Toctur, do you dnclere tite Lefore the SIPT" “You, 'I decluro 1t,% bo
replied, "ant they shut up.

Kno arided that Varons had declared last nichty "Let thon give us
srs tz finish off with Castro, Mut give ther to unl Whoevur hag them,
give ther. to us! Dr, Hiro then deolared, "Vo «re willing to aiserburk,
but here ve ere Just olaying }ide ord neey.” A

De. ¥iro then reforre:l to his view that I'farto ue lee Averdens
should receive 4 orall aubsidy; thet ecratimes it vublished articles
unfavorably tothe 0,3. but thet usually, end 4 eubsiddzed, vould elizinate
adverse iters, i

Tham I returned to the aubjact of the bude? und concern that sore on
the Cow:e!l mayradl nicht also te on H.E.:. payroll. fe replied thut tor
Octorer kn would have thor sveur that they were receiving no other tony
ard rerarke! tut rary ara on the veyroll, He enwersted the different
nections - delozations in Latin treriean countries, each peraun {tvo or
tarve et rost in each country} received cnly-erough to Live ery without
oversting funta, Ile said enci. chief of organtsationiIn the Counoi} received
UO, "Which ta very little,* ?

Me added that during the rast: orth with funds Ince over,, he had sent
te Fexico §3,°C9 because go: 6 peorle had arrived jthere In need and
hungrys He asd C.I.A, oided vith £5,000 una he had sent $7,000 because
tey were Cutars, Further, that re had vrovide.! euch organSzablon with $700
for its expenses cf railiny, offic a, car, etc., tut thst tifa wannlt «
flaed sur. He added thet whatever we left over he wautod to send ty Cuba
& those vno re Fighting theres

Hie coclured , “As forse they cur reduce the titgct to the rininum
provided that they send funds to Cubes but ry ~roblers ruat be resolved.
This tayroll vag -rerised to re when I vas rave vresiiert of the Council,
and I didn't ervate it.# : : 1



sand that if lestre vse rot ce:

al
i

ole.

t quarries “ateut the expenses of tis recruitzert section, anc he sald

he bad told Pale to elininnte that iter sizce recruiting ia nuw dono elso=

\dere, but the rilitery rereonnel in recrattio: should bo grouved in the
rilitary ao that sore form of intelligence agency could be saintained to

srovide informations

Be affirred tat his rilitery stact rally censieted of three officers
(Tarele, Doz-aigra, Vontearulo) tut thet they tad exrenpon of office,
tranwortation, iat sueretaria) heln, As fer “is Socdal kelfire soction,
se said this tat teen established by O.i.4. wal baa neepsoary Cor disranes
ing vedleins, «te., for Outan recuwes teres i

Ta daclared Ut ho hadn't touched ary uf the exvesaen (inherited
fre FA) exces operating oxeanoes, In onier to givw his. a rargin of
is to unset -aforsseon uryent ex:onse: | .

Wo said, "I tot ruuls to elitinate «1 that could! te elizinateds
eaturally he wadé have to coreult vith yous" (ipency) |

Relative to the Navel section he sate ianned 6 elininate their
exrende alloverce bit .ot the soticn itss2¢, tecsuse he due: » 1t essential
fer tatters ove? as sending ara to Cu, since they cariot by sent by
air; and that an office Ia neceasary for ther but their, xpenses rust be

et off slowl7.

i
Ag for the Fedien] Section videh it teer created beforu, +o sald
sely two “rutiicdos® (casualties) reraire! ani that the/soctlun wea to be
eitzinated. He reiternted that thusn secticns tad been|created by us
{Ayercy) und that they could only te eli insted eradually,

Ris use only sors eleven or
2s attenderice at the SIF und
is atYaira, but ithat he felt

ior oropaganca | [(that ned Lean

Re aff lrret thet thers wa left vor
teelte thougard dollars for :atters sue’
Lacents affaira, ami auch rinor cromser
be should have rectwred to bir the Mun.

ing through Pestre).s

J that tae Propuyenda

‘a nacticn of the Counell
for, that he should
destomate avecre elas. He ceclared inikew York, hed
taten! te Varce: jeateniay, urd ceked Verve stat Be aigul! de, to viteh
Varcna resilea, “Hestone™ |

I aeaured bis that it was certainly *
terelasion ;ow function uncor hin as the

ste A-uero in as head of

€3y .¢ tol bir to. Fire
133 very sood tut that bestre
anole day. ot @ swineing pool.
» Suter farto Kur baud, He
ropega: dm, but that for
tis te would also like a geod adviser suc. aa Conte, vo really is no
BON exert to talks Mat would Like to te creaident. Piro said

ney

Miro ther. 114 he would like to out co:
rrecagunds Let tat Conte would rot agree
sectioned that the star? which Veatre
was DY ood tecaute he wanted to snenc

enn
ay



i
t

ate 0"

Hurborto Ketruno, a resortar, aloo Would to ood to direct cropaganta
offerte. Ne added at bestre, chisf of tropagania vor ‘the fii, which no
longer exists, ie the one vio continues recaivin,: the proparuica funds
fror: Paula, tie declared that he (Miro) didn't control these funds; that
ke didn't have anything axcent @ bureaucracy, .

I told ifm that I ecreidered this prubler of propagaiue se-ticn and
its orerstors should eo eorrected right away. He udded that be felt that
Radty Sven nhould be pst unier the cropiyaria section of tho Councils
furtrer, that the eropagani: section tad to quit surding printed ratter
te we Latin arerican enuntries and inotend send a Comit ty nee country
85 Cert they could te printed there with the terms used in each countrys
in Accunti@®y in Arcontiza etyloy in Brazil, in Certugvones In f
Parara, in the ramnor of eeuking in Feruras that such sronepteca rust
te raid fur. He afflrred. thet flunlerto Kndrano ws a yrout rezorter and
hard wcrker and could hasclo thin velly that Fortin Poinudo wie & fine
worker who now is having © struggle to live, but works vell st sropaganda

ratiars. +

Again id, that, the propaganda funds should pass through his

‘sa!
control, on T-wegte take this up uron ry ret. to haahington.
Again he declared that he felt nlans rust te rade for tim and the Council ©

retum to Cuba. I said this vs a ratter sor the future.

We tereinated our raeting with my atoterent that it vould nrotably
not te till the followiny week whon I would return to Mari, after
getting ratters resolved in ‘eshington. He suid that he would protebly
vo returning to Kiant on sodaualay after the Freas luncheon,

I added that 1f it seered desiratle for hiz to core to besi-ingtor
on route to Miani, I wuld coll hiss that othervise I would look forverd
to seeing him in Miami, I acid I felt we had covered a lot of ground,
and thanked him for giving re 60 much of cig time to our reeting.

Again he reiterated tist he desired resnoneibility for all groups
ard thst if he wasn't coraidered to be the right one, that he wes ready
ard willing to reai, ron this, ve fininhed and I excorted hi. to the

elsvater of the hotel,

ae
